J ■ ■ I I 1 0, 



tima^^smmmm 










■ nn i n i it i. safl — wi 





X JLJLdi 



ORTH AMERI 









CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




JL 1324^1)89 48(L902L 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^^^ -- == 


'j-~m^^ 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 





from the 

COOKERY 

collection of 

MARSHALL BLUM 



Mc< 



K^. 



y,^ 



^/ 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089480903 



Mrs. Scotts 

NORTH AMERICAN 

SEASONAL 
COOK BOOK 



SPRING, SUMMER, AUTUMN AND 

WINTER GUIDE TO ECONOMY 

AND EASE IN GOOD FOOD 



By 

MRS. ANNA B. SCOTT 

Cooking Expert and Food Economist of the 
Philadelphia North American 




xu 



PHILADELPHIA 

THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

1921 






COPTEIGHT X9Z1, BT 

THB NOBXB AMERICAN COMPANY 

PHILADffiLPHIA 



THIS IS THE FIRST 
COOK BOOK 

ever planned to help the housewife take advantage 
of Nature's changing supply of foodstuffs from sea- 
son to season, tho such timeliness is the chief deter- 
mining factor in the economy, palatability and 
healthfulness of many articles of diet. Long-con- 
tinued practical experience convinced Mrs. Scott of 
the need for such a guide to good meals, hence this 
unique arrangement of recipes for meat, fish, fruits, 
vegetables and dairy products in the order of their 
seasonal abundance. 

The average woman who never thought of the 
matter in this light will be astonished at the useful- 
ness of this Seasonal Cook Book. It will enable her 
to make timely use of what is in market, and by so 
doing will help not only to reduce the cost of living, 
but at the same time increase the pleasure of the 
table. In addition to these notable advantages, its 
use in the home will make for better health, since 
Nature is wiser than man in adapting her food offer- 



ings to changing body needs as influenced by chang- 
ing seasons. 

Each recipe here given has been repeatedly 
tested by Mrs. Scott and other housewives in the 
everyday round of meal serving, and while this book 
by no means represents the full fruitage of this fa- 
mous expert's many years of practical experience, it 
easily paves the way to a highly palatable and well- 
balanced diet, economically planned to meet the pos- 
sibilities of the average pocketbook. Its contents are 
based on the latest scientific knowledge of nutrition 
and consequent revisions as to food values and diet 
needs. 

For more than forty years "palatable economy" 
has been Mrs. Scott's aim, and these pages reflect her 
notable achievements in this most necessary attempt 
to keep living costs within reason without subjecting 
people to added labor or lack of food that is good and 
good for them. 



Part I— Spring Recipes 

(April, May, June) 



SOUPS 



CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP 

Use the left-over spinach and spinach stock. To a half cup 
of spinach and 1 cup of stock add 3 cups of skim milk, seasoning 
and flavoring to taste. Rub thru the strainer and add a little 
cornstarch thickening and 1 tablespoon oleomargarine, season- 
ing to taste. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Wash asparagus trimmings and cover with boiling water, 
add 1 teaspoon salt and 1 teaspoon of cut onion ; boil slowly for 
35 to 40 minutesi- mash thru strainer. To each cup of asparagus 
2 cups of water have been added, but when it has been boiled you 
will have only 1 cup of stock (water). Add 1 cup of milk to each 
cup of stock, 1 teaspoor. of butter sulDstitute rubbed until smooth 
with 1 teaspoon of flour and boil 5 minutes. 

TOMATO BISQUE, CHEESE FLAVOR 

2 cups tomatoes. 2 cups milk. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. Pinch baking soda. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Ys teaspoon paprika. 

4 teaspoons grated cheese. 

Put the tomato on to boil ; boil 5 minutes, then add soda, 
salt, sugar and pepper; strain into boiling milk or rice stock 
which has been thickened with the butter and flour, which have 
been rubbed together; boil 3 minutes. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon of 
the grated cheese on each cup of soup; serve at once. The 
cheese makes a pleasant change and adds extra food value. 



2 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

PEA PORRIDGE 

1 pint shelled new peas. 
1 pint raw diced potatoes. 
1 tablespoon grated onion. 
1 tablespoon oleomargarine. 
1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. A little white pepper. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley or 1 tablespoon chopped 
fresh mint or scallion top. 

2 cups milk. 

Put the peas and potatoes on in 4 cups of water; boil 30 
minutes, add seasoning, milk, flour and oleomargarine rubbed 
together until smooth. Boil 5 minutes, then add parsley, mint 
or scallion. This is a thick porridge. 



PEA SOUP MADE FROM PODS 

Wash the young pods, remove the blossom end and cut into 
small pieces; put into saucepan and cover with cold water; add 
1 teaspoon sugar, a little salt and 1 tablespocai of cut scallion 
top. Boil slowly for 1 hour, drain and to each 3 cups of the stock 
add 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoon butter substitute and 1 table- 
spoon flour rubbed smooth. Boil 5 minutes, add seasoning to 
taste. 

This can be made without the milk and makes a very tasty 
soup. 

STEWED SNAPPER 

The cleaned snapper is cut into small pieces and boiled in 
salted water until tender; drain and put into sauce, which is 
made as follows : 

4 tablespoons butter. 

4 tablespoons flour. 

3 cups milk. 

% teaspoon whole cloves. 

% teaspoon whole allspice. 

Small piece mace. 

1 tablespoon caramel. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Make cream sauce, add spices and stand aside for 20 min- 
utes ; then strain ; add the Worcestershire sauce and more hot 
milk if necessary. 

Note : The stock is saved for snapper soup. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 



FISH 



BAKED SHAD 

Remove the head and tail ; split down the back and remove 
the backbone and the small bones along the edge. Wash in cold 
water, but do not allow fish to lie in the water. Dry with piece 
of cheesecloth. Brush a shallow pan with 1 tablespoon drip- 
pings ; put in the shad, skin side down ; sprinkle with 1 teaspoon 
salt, % teaspoon pepper. Melt 1 tablespoon butter or butter 
substitute and put over the shad; sprinkle with a little flour 
and pour over % cup of milk; place in very hot oven 25 to 80 
minutes. It should be a light brown. The hotter the oven, the 
better the shad will be. If browned in less than 15 minutes, 
reduce heat, as it takes 25 minutes to cook thru. 

BROILED SHAD 

Prepare the shad the same as for baking. Rub the broiler 
with a little drippings ; lay the shad, which has been dried with 
a piece of cheesecloth, on the broiler. Put over a clear fire and 
turn as soon as it begins to heat ; the more you turn the better 
it will be. It takes from 20 to 25 minutes to broil the fish. 
Put on hot platter, melt 1 tablespoon butter or butter substi- 
tute, add 1 teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon paprika and pour over 
the fish. Set in moderate oven about 15 minutes before serving ; 
garnish with parsley and thin slices of lemon which have been 
dipped into finely chopped parsley. 

BAKED SEABASS 

Scale the fish and remove head; then split and remove 
center bone; cut away the small bones along the edge. Wash 
and dry between pieces of cheesecloth. The fish must never re- 
main in water after it has been scaled. Brush a bakepan with 
drippings; put in fish, skin side down; sprinkle with salt, pep- 
per and flour and a few thin slices of bacon. Put in hot oven 
and bake 30 minutes. Serve with or without sauce. 

PANNED PORGIES 

After scaling, remove head, split the fish and remove back- 
bone and fin bones; rinse in cold' water and dry on piece of 
cheesecloth ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. 

Put drippings in pan; when hot put the fish in skin side 
down; sear quickly on both sides, then fry slowly until well 
done ; garnish with lemon and sprigs of parsley. 



4 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BAKED FISH, SPANISH STYLE 

2 to 2% pounds weakfish or fish of choice. 

6 i/2-inch slices raw tomato. 

2 tablespoons grated onion. 

4 tablespoons chopped green pepper. 

2 tablespoons melted drippings or cooking oil. 

1 tablespoon flour, li/^ teaspoons salt. 

Have the weakfish split and the backbone removed ; lay in 
shallow pan which has been brushed with drippings, skin side 
down ; sprinkle fish with salt, cover with sliced tomatoes, onion 
and peppers. Sprinkle with flour, the balance of salt and fat. 
Put Ya cup of water in the pan to form gravy; put in hot oven 
30 minutes, or until light brown; baste two or three times; 
serve on hot platter and garnish with parsley. Any medium- 
sized fish or steakfish can be prepared in this way. 

TO BOIL HARD-SHELLED CRABS 

Crabs must be alive when put into a boiler one-third full 
of boiling water ; add 1 tablespoon salt, a pinch of red pepper 
to each quart of boiling water. With tongs or large skimmer 
take one crab at a time and put in the boiling water, hard shell 
down (they will die at once). Cover and boil for 30 minutes. 
Rem-ove at once and spread apart to cool. 

When ready to pick, remove the claws and talons, hard shell 
and apron; remove the stomach, which is under the head, and 
the "dead men's fingers." With a sharp knife cut in half and 
remove the meat carefully. Put the picked meat in a colander, 
which must be set on plate and kept on ice until used. 

DEVILED CRABS 

1 quart crab meat. 

V2 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

1 teaspoon flour. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon salt. Pinch red pepper. 

l^ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

1 egg and breadcrumbs. 

Put the butter into saucepan; when melted add flour and 
mix well; then add the cold milk slowly; stir until smooth and 
creamy. Pour over crab meat and add the salt, pepper, parsley 
and Worcestershire sauce ; mix well. Fill into crab shells which 
have been scalded and well cleaned. Cover with breadcrumbs, 
then with egg (1 egg beaten with 1 tablespoon of cold milk), 
then with breadcrumbs; fry in deep hot fat or bake in oven. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 5 

DEVILED CLAMS 

Fresh clams are best, but where one lives where there are 
no fresh clams, canned ones may be used and prepared in scallop 
shells, or ramekins may be used. 

8 large or 12 medium-sized clams. 

2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

1 cup fresh breadcrumbs. 

1/^ teaspoon salt, l^ teaspoon pepper. 

% teaspoon paprika. 1 egg. 

1 cup dry breadcrumbs. 

Put the clams thru meat chopper; strain liquor; put the 
chopped clams in and place over fire. When it comes to a boil 
add the milk; bring to a boil. Have the butter soft and mix 
with the flour until smooth and add to boiling clams and milk; 
add onions and fresh breadcrumbs and all seasoning. Keep on 
fire a few minutes. Have the shells clean and fill them round- 
ing full. Cover with well-beaten egg and dry breadcrumbs. 
Bake in hot oven- 30 minutes or fry in deep, hot fat. 



SAUCE CREOLE 

2 tablespoons drippings or cooking oil. 

1 cup finely cut onion. 

2 tablespoons finely cut green peppers. 
2 cups tomato sauce. 

1 tablespoon sugar; 2 teaspoons salt. 
Yp, teaspoon paprika. 

1/^ teaspoon whole cloves and allspice. 
Small piece whole mace. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 tablespoons finely cut parsley. 
1 tablespoon caramel. 

Put drippings or oil in frypan; add the onion and fry 
until brown. Add tomatoes, spices and seasoning; cook 
until quite thick. Add 2 cups of vegetable or rice stock or 
water. Cook slowly 20 minutes. Add flour, which has been 
mixed with a little cold water. Boil 5 minutes and rub thru 
strainer. Add caramel, Worcestershire sauce, parsley and 
green peppers. This will keep 2 or 3 weeks if put in glass 
ja^; and kept in cool place. 



MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



EGG DISHES 



A DAINTY EGG DISH 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 cup finely chopped cold boiled ham. 

V2 cup breadcrumbs. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1 teaspoon salt. i/4 teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

1 quart potatoes. 

Cut thin slices from the top and bottom of the egg so it will 
stand on either end; then cut in half; remove the yolk. Make 
balls with the ham mixture to fit where the yolk was removed. 
Boil the potatoes and put thru potato ricer On hot platter which 
has been brushed with a little butter, then place the eggs in a 
circle around the edge. Put the yolks thru the ricer over the 
top of all, set in oven just long enough to heat. Garnish with 
chopped parsley. 

HAM FILLING— Put the finely chopped ham, bread- 
crumbs, cream sauce, % teaspoon salt and a little paprika into 
bowl, mix well ; fill into the whites of eggs. 

SAUCE — Put 1 tablespoon butter in saucepan; when melt- 
ed add 1 tablespoon flour; mix well and add 1 cup of cold milk 
slowly, stirring until smooth. 



TRY THESE SUNBURST EGGS 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 4 thin slices toast. 

1 cup milk. 

1 rounded tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 rounded tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon grated onion or 

% teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Chop the whites of eggs very fine and add to half of the 
cream sauce; rub 3 yolks thru strainer and add to other half 
of sauce; place toast on hot platter, pile whites on the toast and 
the yolks with the sauce around the toast ; grate this extra yolk 
over all and garnish with parsley. 

CREAM SAUCE— Put the butter into pan; when melted 
add flour and onion; mix until smooth; add cold milk slowly 
and stir until thick and creamy; boil 3 minutes, add seasoning. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 7 

EGGS— THE BRIGHT SIDE UP! 

6 eggs. 

2 cups cream sauce, seasoned and flavored with nutmeg. 

Put the cream sauce in shallow earthen dish or agate pietin. 
Open eggs carefully and drop in the cream sauce ; place in oven 
and bake until the eggs are firm. Before serving dust with salt 
and pepper. 

EGGS IN BREAD CASES 

Cut the bread from large loaf, 2 inches thick; then place 
large biscuit cutter in center and cut around with a sharp knife ; 
cut out the center and remove all the breadcrumbs so as to leave 
an opening large enough for an egg. After bread rounds are 
cut put on pan in oven until brown. 

When ready to use, immerse bread cases quickly in hot, 
salted water and break the egg in center. Place in oven and 
bake until egg is as firm as you like it. Garnish with crisp, 
fried bacon. 



SOMETHING DIFFERENT— EGGS A LA MARTINE 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 cup white sauce. 
4 tablespoons grated cheese. 

Add the grated cheese to the sauce, stir until cheese is melt- 
ed; add the chopped hard-boiled eggs; serve on rounds of toast; 
garnish with sprigs of parsley; dust with paprika. 



HERE IS A CREAMED EGG PIE 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1 quart mashed potatoes. 

% cup buttered breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon chives or scallion tops. 

The potatoes are mashed, seasoned and flavored to taste; 
half are put in buttered bakedish or casserole the same as a 
crust for meat or oyster pie. The hard-boiled eggs are cut in 
thin slices the long way and laid over the potatoes and the cream 
sauce is poured over the egg; the remaining potato is pressed 
thru ricer over the top of egg and sauce. Sprinkle with but- 
tered crumbs; put in hot oven and brown slightly; dust with 
paprika and sprinkle with parsley. 



MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



TO STORE EGGS FOR WINTER 

One quart of silicate of soda (water glass) ; 10 quarts of 
water. Boil and cool the water; add silicate of soda; put in 
earthenware crocks. 

Examine the eggs, being sure they are fresh and not 
cracked. It is not necessary to fill the crock at once, as eggs 
can be added. When there are as many as one wants to do 
up, tie a piece of muslin over the top and wet with the solu- 
tion before putting in cool place. 



DEVILED EGGS ARE A RICH TREAT 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

% teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

Dash cayenne pepper. Dash paprika. 

1 tablespoon butter, olive oil or oleomargarine. 

1 tablespoon vinegar. 

Cut the hard-boiled eggs in half the long way, remove the 
yolk without breaking the white. Powder yolk with a silver 
fork, then add mustard, sugar, salt, paprika, cayenne pepper 
and vinegar; mix together; add the melted butter, olive oil or 
half cup of mayonnaise; mix until smooth and fill into the 
whites; rough top with fork and sprinkle with parsley. 

SPANISH OMELET 

1/2 cup mushrooms. 

1 cup solid tomato meat. 

% cup finely chopped green peppers. 
% cup finely chopped scallion or onion. 
3 eggs. 3 tablespoons cold water. 

2 tablespoons butter or bacon drippings. 
1 tablespoon flour, i^ teaspoon salt. 
% teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Put half the butter into pan with mushrooms, onion and 
peppers and cook until tender, but not brown. Keep stirring 
constantly; add the tomatoes and seasoning and boil 5 minutes; 
add flour, which has been mixed with cold water, and boil 3 min- 
utes. Set on back of stove and make the omelet. 

Separate the eggs; beat the whites until dry and very light; 
add yolks, which have been beaten until well mixed, with cold 
water and seasoning to taste. Put the remainder of butter into 
frypan; when hot add eggs, place over moderate fire and cook 
until bottom is firm ; place in oven to dry top, then cover with 
the sauce ; double over and put on hot platter. The remainder 
of sauce is poured around the omelet. Garnish with watercress. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 9 

A NEW SERVING FOR CREAMED EGGS 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon pepper, i^ teaspoon paprika. 

Put the butter substitute into saucepan; melt; add onion 
and flour; mix well and add the cold milk slowly; stir until 
smooth and creamy; add the salt, pepper and boil 5 minutes. 
Chop the eggs, yolks and whites together, and add to the cream 
sauce. Serve on toast or in hollow rolls; sprinkle with paprika 
and garnish with chopped parsley. 



GOLDEN BELL EGGS CHARM THE PALATE 

1 cup cold rice. 6 eggs. 

1 teaspoon salt, a little pepper. 
1/^ cup finely cut onion. 

2 rounded tablespoons bacon drippings or oil. 

Put drippings into pan ; add onions and fry a few minutes, 
but do not brown ; add rice, salt and pepper ; heat thru. Beat 
the eggs until well mixed and pour over the rice ; keep stirring 
until the eggs are cooked. Serve on hot dish and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. This can be served with 1 cup of cream 
sauce around edge. 



EGGS GOLDEN GLOW 

6 eggs. 6 rounds toasted bread. 
11/^ cups milk. % teaspoon salt. 
A pinch of pepper and a little nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs until light; add salt, pepper and nutmeg and 
1/^ cup of milk; put into saucepan over slow fire and cook, stir- 
ring until set; put 1 cup of milk on to boil; add 1 tablespoon of 
thickening and 1 teaspoon butter ; boil 2 minutes. Put the toast 
on hot platter and pour over the thickened milk; place the fluffy 
cooked eggs on pieces of toast, which make six yellow rounds 
with white halo. A little onion juice may be added for those 
who like it. 



10 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

YOU MIGHT CALL THESE EGGS ARTISTIQUE 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 

6 thin, square slices toast. 

2 cups milk. 2 rounded tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 teaspoon salt and a little pepper. 

Chop the whites of eggs very fine and add to half of the 
cream sauce ; rub 5 yolks thru strainer and add to other half of 
cream sauce; place toast on platter; pile the whites, with sauce 
around the toast; grate the sixth yolk over all, garnish with 
six field daisies which have been rinsed under cold running 
water. This is a most attractive dish. 

EGG MIGNONETTE 

6 eggs. ' 

3 tablespoons finely chopped scallion. 
1 tablespoon cut parsley. 

y2 teaspoon salt. Pinch fjepper. 

1 tablespoon bacon drippings or 1 teaspoon oil. 

Put the drippings into pan ; break the eggs into bowl, but 
do not mix; add salt and pepper, pour into hot pan and with 
fork mix lightly until the eggs are set, which makes yellow and 
w^iite streaked. One must be careful not to disturb the yolk 
until the egg is set. Serve on toast and sprinkle with scallion 
and parsley. 



MEAT 



SMOTHERED ROUND STEAK 

1 pound steak. 1 teaspoon salt. 

A little pepper. 1 teaspoon onion juice. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 tablespoon drippings. 

Pound steak with meat tenderer or edge of wooden potato 
masher; sprinkle with salt, pepper, onion juice and flour; dou- 
ble over 3 times so it will be thick; press together firmly. Put 
drippings into iron pan; when hot put in meat and sear quickly; 
add 1 cup of hot water, cover pan and simmer slowly 20 to 25 
minutes. If there is a hot oven, the pan can be put in after it 
has been seared. A little more water may be added if desired. 
Serve with mashed potatoes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 11 

HAMBURG STEAK WITH RICE 

1 pound round steak. 

2 cups stale bread. 

1 tablesiooon finely cut parsley. 

Yo teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 tablespoon caramel. 

1 teaspoon salt. Dash paprika. 

1 cup rice. 

Put the meat thru food chopper; add the bread, which has 
been soaked in cold water and pressed between the hands until 
dry, seasoning and form into small cakes. Dip in flour and lay 
in well-greased shallow pan. Put in hot oven, baste with rice 
stock, bake 10 minutes or until done to one's liking. 

Wash and boil the rice as usual, spread on platter, sprinkle 
with 1 teaspoon of salt and put the meat cake on top. Put the 
flour in pan, mix well and add enough rice stock to make a cup 
of gravy. Season to taste and add caramel ; pour over meat and 
rice ; garnish with parsley. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

1 pound lean stewing beef. 

1/2 cup onion. 2 cups carrot. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

34 teaspoon white pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon finely cut parsley. 

Have the meat cut in small pieces ; wash, put in iron boiler 
to sear (brown). If you do not have an iron boiler, sear the 
meat in a frying pan. When brown on both sides, add enough 
boiling water to cover and boil slowly 1% hours; then add the 
onion, carrot, salt and pepper and boil 35 minutes or more until 
tender. You may have to add a little more water. There should 
be 2 cups of gravy when finished. Mix the flour with a little 
cold water and add; boil 3 minutes. If not brown enough, add a 
little caramel. Sprinkle with the chopped parsley. 

Dumplings 

1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

% cup milk. 1 egg. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add milk and 
well-beaten egg; beat until smooth. Put the dough on stew by 
tablespoons; cover and boil rapidly for 10 minutes without re- 
moving cover, then remove dumplings with skimmer and place 
around edge of platter. 



12 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

LAMB STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

1 pound stewing lamb. 
V2 cup cut onion. 1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash white pepper. 1 tablespoon flour. 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Wipe the meat, cut into 2-inch pieces ; put into a saucepan, 
cover with boiling water; boil 1 hour; add the onion, salt and 
pepper; boil 30 minutes; add the flour, which has been mixed 
with a little cold water; boil 5 minutes; sprinkle with the 
parsley. Dumplings are same as for beef stew. 



SPRING LAMB WITH MINT SAUCE 

Either hind or fore quarter of lamb can be used. The fore- 
quarter is much easier to carve and especially for the beginner, 
but most good butchers know how to fix either quarter so it will 
carve easily. If the hindquarter is used be sure part of leg 
bone, hip and chine bone are removed. Only leave a bone in the 
leg. If forequarter, all shoulder bones, chine and neck bones 
are taken out. The bones are used for broth or stock. 

The meat is wiped, seasoned with salt, pepper and flour and 
a little drippings (if the meat is very lean). Put in 
a hot oven and sear quickly. Reduce the heat and add 2 cups 
of water. Roast slowly I14 hours, basting quite frequently. 
Make 2 cups of gravy with either piece of meat. 



SCALLOPED LAMB 

Cold boiled or roast lamb cut into small slices. 

2 cups breadcrumbs. 

2 tablespoons onion juice. 

% teaspoon salt. Dash pepper. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

1 cup cold gravy or stock. 

1 cup strained tomatoes or white sauce. 

Brush casserole dish or small agate pan with melted drip- 
pings; cover bottom with breadcrumbs; then a layer of meat, 
another layer of breadcrumbs, meat and breadcrumbs again! 
Mix tomatoes, gravy, stock or water; add onion, salt and pep- 
per; pour over the top. Cover and bake 15 minutes; uncover 
and bake 15 minutes or until nicely browned. If dry, add more 
moisture. The more gravy, the better the meat dish. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 13 

LAMB LOAF WITH NEW PEAS 

Neck or breast of lamb. 
1 cup rice. 1 cup cream sauce. 
1 tablespoon grated onion. 
Or % teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped green peppers. 
1/^ teaspoon salt. Vs teaspoon paprika. 

The meat is boiled in 1 quart of water and is cooled in the 
stock. Remove the strained stock for broth. Boil the rice; 
drain (do not blanch) ; put the meat and rice thru food chop- 
per; add sauce and seasoning. Put in tube pan or brick pan 
that has been brushed with butter substitute ; bake 25 to 40 min- 
utes. Serve with green peas in center and around edge. 

LAMB STEW A LA MERION 

1 pound stewing lamb. 
1 quart string beans. 

1 quart small potatoes. 

V2 cup cut onion. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons cut parsley. 

2 teaspoons salt or salt to taste. Paprika. 

The meat is cut into small pieces ; put on to boil in 4 cups 
of boiling water and boil 1 hour; then add onions and string 
beans, which have been prepared as usual. Boil 15 minutes 
and add the potatoes and s-alt; boil until all are tender; add 
more water if needed. Thicken with flour. 

Put meat and beans in center of chop plate and the potatoes 
around the edge; pour gravy over all and sprinkle with parsley. 
Dust with paprika. 



COLD MINT SAUCE 

1/^ cup mint leaves chopped fine. 

1 tablespoon pulverized sugar. 

1 tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon water, pinch of salt. 

Mix all well together and serve in separate dish to be 
used with the meat. The meat is placed on hot platter and 
garnished with sprigs of parsley or mint; or mint gelatin 
can be used, which is less work and one is always sure 
it is 0. K. 



14 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

ROAST LAMB AND POTATOES 

Shoulder yearling lamb. 

2 cups stale bread. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped onion. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon salt. Dash white pepper. 

Wipe the shoulder with piece of wet cheesecloth, fill with 
the bread filling and sew up. Put into hot oven 20 minutes, or 
until well seared; then add 1 cup of cold water; dust with salt 
and pepper and roast 45 minutes, after reducing the heat of 
oven. Add 14 peck of washed and pared potatoes and roast 1 
hour, adding water as it is needed. Remove the meat and pota- 
toes to hot platter and make the gravy by adding 1 tablespoon 
flour, which has been mixed with a little cold water ; mix well 
and add 1 tablespoon caramel ; boil 3 minutes. 

DRESSING — Soak the bread in cold water 5 minutes. Put 
the drippings and onion into pan ; when cooked add the bread, 
which is pressed thru the hands until all water is out, the salt, 
pepper and parsley; mix well and cook thoroly. 

STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL 

Purchase a 3 to 4 pound breast of veal. Have the butcher 
cut a pocket in the veal ; wipe with piece of wet cheesecloth ; fill 
and sew up. Place in roast pan ; sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
put into hot oven and roast 1 hour, adding water as it 
is needed. There must be 2 cups of gravy when finished. 
Add the white potatoes, which have been pared and washed, and 
roast 30 minutes. Remove the meat to hot platter; place the 
potatoes around the edge; pour the gravy around or serve in 
gravy boat; garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Gravy 

Add 2 tablespoons flour, which have been mixed with a 
little cold water, to the pan ; add % teaspoon salt, a dash of pep- 
per and 1 tablespoon caramel. 

Filling 

2 cups stale bread. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped onion. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 1 teaspoon salt. 

l^ teaspoon white pepper. Dash paprika. 

Put the drippings and onion into pan ; add the bread, which 
has been soaked in cold water and pressed dry between the 
hands; then add the salt, pepper, parsley and paprika; mix well 
and keep stirring until it has fried dry. Fill the pocket 
and close. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 15 

VEAL CUTLETS WITH PEAS 

When buying veal cutlet always have it cut thin. Cut into 
8 pieces; sprinkle with salt and pepper, then with flour; 
dip in egg (1 egg beaten with 1 teaspoon of milk), then in bread- 
crumbs. Fry in hot fat and drain on tissue toweling or brown 
paper. Serve with peas. 



MINCED VEAL CUTLET 

11/2 pounds knuckle or lean stewing veal. 

iy2 teaspoons salt. Pepper to taste. 

1 cup white sauce. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

14 teaspoon powdered mace. Breadcrumbs. 

Put the veal on to boil in very little water, add salt, pepper 
and small onion. Boil slowly until tender (the water must have 
boiled away). Put the meat thru food chopper; add the white 
sauce, chopped parsley, mace and a well-beaten egg; mix well. 
Spread on platter and set in cold place for 2 or 3 hours. (This 
can be made the day before.) Take a tablespoon into floured 
hands and shape into cutlets. When all are shaped, dip into 
well-beaten egg (1 egg and 1 tablespoon of milk), then into 
breadcrumbs. Fry in very hot cooking oil until browned nicely. 
These cutlets are exceptionally nice for a lap affair. 



VEAL CROQUETTES WITH PEAS 

2 pounds lean stewing veal. 

2 cups cold boiled rice. 

2 cups cream sauce. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

% teaspoon grated nutmeg or scraped onion to taste. 

1 "tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Boil veal until tender. When cold, put meat and rice thru 
food chopper; add sauce and other ingredients; mix well; 
spread on plate ; put in cold place. When cold and firm take a 
tablespoonful into floured hands and mold into cones or oblong 
shapes. After all are molded, dip in well-beaten egg, which has 
been mixed with 1 tablespoon of milk; then in fine bread- 
crumbs. Fry in very hot drippings or oil. 



1-6 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FRICASSEE OF VEAL 

2 pounds veal. 

2 tablespoons finely cut onion. 

2 tablespoons finely cut parsley. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon salt. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. Paprika. 

Wash the veal; put on with 3 cups of boiling water; 
bring to a boil quickly and add onion ; keep adding water as it 
boils away. When meat is tender, add salt, pepper and flour, 
which has been mixed with cold water; boil 5 minutes; add 
lemon juice and garnish with slices of lemon. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

4 to 4^ lbs. stewing chicken. 

1% cups cut carrot. 1 cup cut onion. 

4 tablespoons chopped green pepper. 

2 tablespoons cut parsley. 

2 tablespoons drippings. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash paprika. 

Clean the chicken the same as for stewing. The backbone, 
wing tips, neck and giblets are used for soup. The drumsticks, 
thighs and breast (cut in 2 pieces) are put in iron pan with 
drippings and seared on both sides. Put half of onion and half of 
carrot in the bottom of the casserole, then a layer of the seared 
chicken, then the remainder of the vegetables, salt, chopped 
peppers and paprika and 2 cups of boiling water; cover and put 
in moderate oven 2l^ to 3 hours. I would never cook a young 
chicken like this ; fowls are best cooked in this way. Mix the 
flour with a little cold water and add to the gravy just before 
serving; sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

FRIED CHICKEN, BROWN GRAVY 

Singe, wash and clean the chicken; cut into pieces as fol- 
lows: Two thighs, 2 drumsticks, 2 wings, the breast cut in 
2 pieces, the backbone cut in 4 pieces. Wipe on piece of 
cheesecloth; dust with salt and pepper, dredge in flour. Put 
into frying pan with 2 tablespoons drippings or butter 
substitute. 

Put pan over fire, lay chicken in and brown quickly; add a 
little water and reduce heat and fry slowly on both sides with 
cover on. You may have to add a little more water. When ten- 
der remove from pan and add 1 tablespoon of flour; mix with 
whatever gravy or fat there is in the bottom of the pan ; then 
add 1 cup of cold milk; boil a few minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 17 



EGG SHELLS ARE USEFUL 



Be sure to save all egg shells for clearing coffee, also 
for clarifying drippings and the cleaning of bottles. Crush 
the egg shells fine, put in bottle with a little soap powder 
and hot water ; shake the bottle well. 



STEWED CHICKEN 

Cut the breast into 4 parts; joint the thighs and wings; 
put into boiler with boiling water to cover and a small onion 
and boil slowly 2 hours; add 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
flour, which has been mixed with a little cold water, and boil 
5 minutes. Serve on a platter with border of potatoes and 
gravy. Sprinkle with chopped parsley. 



MEAT DISHES 



SPINACH, RICE AND MEAT 

l^ peck spinach. 1 cup rice. 

1 cup cold meat. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon butter or substitute. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon paprika. 

Wash and boil the spinach as usual ; drain and chop ; add 
the cream sauce, all but 2 tablespoons. Mix well and put in cen- 
ter of platter. 

Boil the rice as usual, drain and blanch with hot water ; put 
around the spinach. 

The cold meat is put thru meat chopper, add 2 table- 
spoons cream sauce or gravy, the breadcrumbs, parsley and sea- 
soning to taste; form into small round bal-ls; place on pietin 
wh-ich has been brushed with drippings ; put in hot oven 10 min- 
utes, or until firm^ place between the spinach and rice; garnish 
the edge with sprigs of parsley. 



IS MkS. SCOTT'S NORTH AUmtCAN 

SURPRISE CROQUETTES 

2 cups cold boiled rice. 

1 cup cold boiled ham. 

1 cup thick cream sauce. 1 hard-boiled egg. 

1 raw egg. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped green peppers. 
1 teaspoon salt. Breadcrumbs. 

Put the rice and ham thru food chopper; add the cream 
sauce ; pepper and salt. Mix well. Cut the hard-boiled egg in 
6 pieces the long way. Put the ham and rice mixture around 
the piece of egg; roll in flour, then in the raw egg mixed with 
1 tablespoon of cold milk. Dip the croquette in egg, then in 
breadcrumbs; fry in very hot fat. The croquettes are made ob- 
long. Serve with green peas around. The cream sauce is made 
with 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons flour and 1 cup 
of cold milk, seasbned and flavored to taste. 



SPINACH WITH MINCED HAM 

34, peck spinach. 2 cups chipped ham. 

1 tablespoon ham drippings. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 1 teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon paprika. 1 cup milk. 

Wash and clean spinach ; boil as usual ; drain and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Place in center of platter and put the 
creamed ham around edge. To make the creamed ham put the 
drippings in pan; when melted add the flour; mix well and add 
the onion and milk, seasoning and ham, boil 3 minutes. 



BOILED HAM WITH YOUNG BEETS 

The butt end of ham is washed in hot water; put on to boil 
in cold water; boil slowly until tender. Remove and keep in a 
warm place. Add the beets and tops, which have been washed, 
but not pared, to the stock; boil 40 minutes, or until tender. 
Drain, skin beets and slice. The tops are chopped, seasoned 
with pepper and salt to taste; put the sliced beets over the top 
of beet tops. The ham is sliced thin and put around beet tops. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 19 

HAM WITH GRAVY AND RICE BALLS 

Fry slices of ham quickly in very little fat; keep turning all 
the time ; when done remove from pan. Take pan from fire and 
add 1 or 2 tablespoons of flour, or as much as the fat will ab- 
sorb. It must be smooth before it is returned to the fire ; then 
add cold rice stock, boil slowly until smooth and thick. If 1 
tablespoon of flour is used 1 cup of rice stock is enough. Add 
seasoning to taste; pour on platter, place ham in center and the 
rice balls around the edge. 

2 cups rice. 2 teaspoons salt. 

1/^ teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons milk. Breadcrumbs. 

Wash and boil the rice as usual, but do not blanch. Beat 1 
egg with 1 tablespoon milk, and add to the rice ; add salt and 
nutmeg; mix well, take a spoonful into floured hands and roll. 
The mixture must be warm when rolling; after all are rolled in 
floured hands set aside until cold and firm; beat 1 egg with 1 
tablespoon milk until well mixed, roll the rice in the egg, then in 
breadcrumbs. Fry in hot fat until brown; serve around ham. 

BAKED HAM WITH CREAM SAUCE 

2-inch slice of ham. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons brown sugar. 

y^ teaspoon paprika. 1 cup milk. 

The ham is boiled the day before and left in stock until 
cold. Put in shallow pan; dust with flour and sugar; put in 
hot oven with 1 cup of ham stock. Baste 2 or 3 times; when 
brown remove to platter. Cream sauce is made as usual. 

HOW TO MAKE HAM LOAF 

3 cups cold boiled rice. 
2 cups cold boiled ham. 

y2 cup cream sauce, i^ cup breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon onion juice. 

14 teaspoon white pepper. Dash paprika. 

1 egg. Salt if needed. 

Put the ham and rice thru food chopper, and add the cream 
sauce, breadcrumbs, parsley, onion juice and seasoning; a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce can be added if desired. 
Beat the eggs until light and add; mix all well together and 
press into a tube pan or mold, which has been brushed with 
drippings. Bake in a moderate oven 35 or 40 minutes. When 
cold, slice thin. Serve on lettuce leaves; garnish with salad 
dressing. 



20 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



« 



MEAL" DISHES 



DISH FOR THE MEATLESS MEAL 

1 cup (1^ pound) rice. 

2 cups canned tomatoes. 
1/2 cup finely cut onion. 

1 cup (14 pound) grated American cheese. 

2 tablespoons drippings. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the drippings and onion into pan, fry until cooked, but 
not brown, then add the rice, which has been washed, boiled and 
blanched as usual, the tomatoes and salt; cook 10 minutes. 
Spread on platter, cover with cheese and set in oven until cheese 
is melted. Dust top with paprika and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 



SURPRISE MEAL 

y2 pound chopped raw beef. 

1 quart potatoes. 

1 cup cut carrots. 

1 pint shelled peas. 

1 tablespoon parsley. 

1 tablespoon scraped onion. 

1% teaspoons salt. 

Pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes and carrots ; put both on to- 
getiier and boil until tender; add onion, salt, pepper and 
butter substitute. Beat until light. Brush bakedish with but- 
ter substitute, put in the potato and carrots, making it rather 
high in center. Make 6 holes with back of tablespoon on top ; 
season and flavor the chopped raw beef to taste and put a table- 
spoon of beef in each hole ; put in hot oven and bake until meat 
is done to one's liking. Cook and season peas and put around 
edge of dish. Sprinkle with parsley and paprika. 



TO HAVE LIGHT CAKES 

Always beat rather than stir your cake batter. The 
reason for beating batter is to introduce air into the mix- 
ture, while stirring makes it more solid and airless. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 21 

VICTORY MEAT DISH 

34 pound dried beef. 1 head cabbage. 
1 quart onions. 1 quart potatoes. 

1 quart carrots. 

2 tablespoons oleomargarine. 
V-/2 tablespoons flour. 

W2 cups milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. Dash paprika. 

Cut the cabbage into quarters, cover with cold water 20 min- 
utes; drain and put on to boil in plenty of water in an 
uncovered vessel and boil 30 minutes; drain. Wash and pare 
onions and potatoes; scrape the carrots and cut in 1-inch 
rounds; put the 3 vegetables in 1 boiler and boil 30 minutes; 
drain (have the onions, potatoes and carrots about the same 
size). Put the oleomargarine in small pan with dried beef, 
which has been picked into small pieces, stir until oleomar- 
garine is melted, then sprinkle with flour, stir until all adheres 
to the beef; add the cold milk slowly; boil 5 minutes. How to 
serve: 

Put the 4 quarters of cabbage in center of the platter, 
the potatoes around the cabbage and onion around the potatoes 
and decorate the edge with carrot. Pour the cream sauce, which 
is flavored with dried beef, parsley and paprika, around the 
vegetables. 

PORK CHOPS HOOVER 

y2 pound pork chops (2 chops). 
^ peek small potatoes. 

2 cups carrots. 1 cup cut onion. 
2 tablespoons beef drippings. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon caramel. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

2 teaspoons salt. Pepper. 

Pare the potatoes, scrape and cut carrots ; put both into one 
boiler and boil until tender; drain and sprinkle with 1 teaspoon 
of salt; shake boiler and put on hot platter. While the pota- 
toes are boiling make the sauce. By the time the potatoes are 
tender the sauce will be finished, then pour it over potatoes and 
carrots and sprinkle with parsley. Sauce is made as follows : 
SAUCE FOR PORK CHOPS HOOVER 

Put drippings and onion into pan, fry until tender but not 
brown : add the pork, which has been put thru food chopper, stir- 
ring until meat is slightly seared, then sprinkle the flour over 
onion and meat; stir well and add 1% cups of vegetable or rice 
stock; add seasoning and caramel and boil 15 minutes. Pour 
over potatoes and carrots. 



22 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

SPINACH MOLD 

Ya peck spinach. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoon onion juice. 

2 tablespoons flo^r. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean, wash and boil the spinach ; drain (save the water in 
which it is boiled) ; be sure that all the water is removed. Put 
the butter into saucepan ; when melted, add the flour and onion 
juice; mix well, and then add i/^ cup of the stock in which the 
spinach is boiled; stir until thick and smooth; add salt and 
pepper and then add to the spinach; mix well. Put the spin- 
ach in center of chop plate ; chop the whites of the hard-boiled 
eggs and put around the edge, then grate the yolks of eggs in 
the center of the spinach. 

CREAMED SPINACH WITH EGGS 

1/^ peck spinach. 4 eggs. 

1/4 pound dried beef. 1 cup white sauce. 

1 teaspoon salt. Paprika. Parsley. 

Wash, clean and boil the spinach as usual with little or no 
water ; if young, boil 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, sprinkle with a 
little salt, chop just a little, then put on center of chop plate. 

Poach or steam the eggs, put on top of spinach; sprinkle 
with salt and paprika; put the creamed dried beef around 
the edge. 

MEAT WITH RICE AND NEW PEAS 

1 cup rice. 14 P^ck peas. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 
V-/2 teaspoons salt. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped green pepper. 
1 tablespoon flour. Left-over meat. 

Wash, boil and blanch the rice as usual ; also boil the peas. 
Put the rice in center of hot platter, sprinkle with a little salt, 
drain the peas (saving the water), season to taste and put 
around the rice, then cover the rice with the meat, which is pre- 
pared as follows: 

Put fat, onion and green pepper in f rypan ; fry until ten- 
der; but not brown; then add flour; stir until smooth and add 
the water in which the peas have been boiled ; stir until smooth 
and add the cold meat, which has been cut into thin, small 
pieces. Heat thru. A half cup of cold meat will be enough to 
flavor the rice. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 23 



CHEESE RECIPES 



FRIED TOMATOES WITH CHEESE 

4 firm tomatoes, i^ cup cornmeal or flour. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon drippings. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 14 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. Y2 cup grated cheese. 

Wash the tomatoes, remove skin from the top and bottom 
and cut in half. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and sugar and then 
dip in the cornmeal or flour. Put the drippings into the frying 
pan, and when hot add tomatoes and fry until light brown on 
both sides; add the milk and boil 5 minutes. Serve on small 
pieces of toast and sprinkle with the grated cheese. 



CHEESE SAUCE 

For potatoes, rice, hominy and cornmeal mush. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute or cooking oil. 

1 teaspoon scraped or grated onion. 

Vs teaspoon paprika. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup of milk and rice stock. 

1 cup (34 pound) grated American cheese. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. Chopped parsley. 

Put fat and onion into pan ; when melted remove from fire ; 
add flour, mix until smooth, return to fire and add the cold 
milk, slowly stirring until smooth ; add seasoning and cheese ; 
stir rapidly until cheese is dissolved. DO NOT BOIL, Pour 
over boiled potatoes, rice or hominy or cover platter 
with slices of cornmeal mush, place in oven a few minutes. 
Sprinkle with paprika and parsley. Serve at once. 

ESCALLOPED CHEESE 

2 cups grated American cheese. 

2 cups breadcrumbs. 1 cup milk. 

3/2 teaspoon salt. Dash white pepper. 

% teaspoon butter substitute. 

Brush 6 or 8 earthen ramekins with the melted butter sub- 
stitute; pour the milk over the breadcrumbs; add half the 
grated cheese, salt, pepper, Worcestershire sauce and mix well; 
nil into ramekins; sprinkle with the remainder of cheese and 
breadcrumbs and bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. 



24 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHEESE FONDU 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 
^ cup boiling water. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 
1 cup boiling milk. 

1 cup grated or chopped cheese. 

3 eggs. 1 level teaspoon salt. 
Dash of paprika. Little parsley. 

Put crumbs, butter substitute and cheese into bowl; cover 
with boiling milk; when cold, add seasoning and well-beaten 
yolks of eggs. Mix well, then beat the whites of eggs until light 
and fold in lightly. Brush bakedish, put in mixture; cover 
with a little of the grated cheese; place in moderate oven 25 
minutes. Serve at once. 

CHEESE PUFFS 

2 tablespoons butter. 

14 cup grated cheese. 1 egg. 

1 white of egg. A few grains of cayenne. 

Put butter and water in saucepan; when boiling add salt, 
cayenne and flour ; stir until the mixture cleaves to the spoon. 
Remove from the lire and add the cheese and 1 egg ; beat well ; 
add the white of egg and beat again. Drop by teaspoonfuls on 
a buttered baking sheet; sprinkle with grated cheese and bake 
20 minutes in a hot oven. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 
1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 
^4 pound (1 cup) grated cheese. 

3 eggs. % teaspoon salt. 

1/8 teaspoon paprika. Dash white pepper. 

Put the butter into saucepan over fire; when melted add 
flour; mix until smooth; then add the cold milk; stir until 
smooth; boil 3 minutes. Remove from fire; add the grated 
cheese and stir until melted. Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks 
until well mixed; add to the cooled mixture; beat the whites 
until dry and fold in lightly. Brush earthenware dish with a 
little butter; pour in mixture; put in moderate oven and bake 
25 to 30 minutes. Serve at once. 



DON'T WASTE THIS FOOD VALUE 

Save all water in which vegetables are cooked for soups, 
sauces, stews and basting roast meat or poultry. A large 
part of the valuable mineral salts are thus saved from waste, 
and we need these food elements to keep us strong and healthy. 



SEASONAL BOOK BOOK 25 

SMALL POTATOES, CHEESE SAUCE 

1 quart small potatoes. 

1 tablespoon butter or oleomargarine. 

1 tablespoon "flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper. 

1 cup grated cheese. 

Put the small potatoes on and boil until tender; drain, add 
the sauce, put into tureen and sprinkle with parsley. 

SAUCE— Put the butter into saucepan with the onion, add 
the flour and mix well; then add the cold milk slowly, stirring 
until smooth and creamy; add the salt, pepper and cheese, stir 
until cheese is melted, but do not boil. 



VEGETABLES 



NEW PEAS 

A quarter peck of peas are shelled, put on in boiling water 
to cover, add 1 teaspoon sugar and boil in uncovered vessel 
until tender, anywhere from 20 to 25 minutes, depending on 
kind and age of peas. The water should be well boiled away; 
then add salt, pepper to taste and 1 teaspoon of butter or oleo- 
margarine after they are put into the serving dish. The pods 
are saved for soup. When mint is plentiful a small sprig can 
be added for those who like the flavor. 



CREAMED SCALLIONS 

Clean and wash the scallions ; do not cut off the green ; tie 
in small bundles and boil 25 minutes in salted water, uncovered. 
When tender, drain (save the water to be used in soup), lay the 
scallions on toast and cover with the cream sauce made as 
follows: 

Put 1 tablespoon butter into saucepan, add 1 tablespoon 
flour, mix well, then add 1 cup cold milk slowly, stirring until 
smooth and creamy ; then add ^2 teaspoon salt and a little paprika ; 
boil 3 minutes and pour over the scallions. 



26 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CREAMED NEW ONIONS 

1 quart onions. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 

Peel the onions, put on in saucepan with boiling water 
enough to cover and 1 teaspoon salt; boil 30 minutes, or until 
tender, without cover. Drain, put the butter in saucepan; 
when melted add 1 cup of water in which the onions were 
boiled ; boil until smooth, pour over the onions. Add 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice, if you like ; it makes a pleasant change. 

NEW CABBAGE, BECHAMEL SAUCE 

1 head new cabbage. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

Cut the cabbage into quarters, remove part of the core and 
lay in cold water 30 minutes, then drain, cover with boiling water 
and boil 30 minutes or until tender in uncovered vessel. Drain, 
put into tureen and cover with sauce made as follows : 

Put the butter substitute into saucepan over fire; when 
melted add the flour; mix well and add the cold milk slowly, stir- 
ring until smooth and creamy ; add salt, pepper and a little grated 
nutmeg or grated onion, the finely chopped white of egg and the 
yolk which has been powdered. 

Cabbage must be boiled in plenty of water in an uncovered 
vessel. 

CREAMED STRING BEANS 

String 1 quart of beans, cut into half -inch pieces and set 
aside in cold wat^ 30 minutes; drain and cover with boiling 
water; add 1 tablespoon of cut onion for flavor and boil 30 min- 
utes, or until tender. Cover with the cream sauce, made with 
bacon drippings. The bacon drippings are not only cheaper than 
butter, but flavor the beans much better. 

Sauce 

1 tablespoon bacon drippings. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon scraped onion. 

1 cup cold milk. 1 teaspoon salt. Dash white pepper. 

Put the drippings into pan; add onion and flour; mix well, 
then add the cold milk slowly; boil 3 minutes; add salt and pep- 
per. If you have no bacon drippings on hand, fry 2 or 3 
thin pieces of bacon and use the bacon to garnish the beans. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 27 

BEET TOPS 

Cut the tops of beets off about 1 inch from beet; wash both; 
put the beets in saucepan, cover with boiling water. The tops are 
put in strainer on top of beets; cover and boil until tender. In 
that way the beets will be ready for next day, and one cooking will 
do both tops and beets. When tender remove, strain, press dry, 
season to taste and serve with white sauce, lemon juice or vinegar. 
The tops are just as good as spinach. 

FRIED TOMATOES, CREAM SAUCE 

4 tomatoes. ^ cup ^our. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons drippings. 1 cup milk. 

Cut the tomatoes into slices, sprinkle with sugar and salt; 
dip into flour, put into hot drippings, fry very slowly until nicely 
browned on both sides. Remove the tomatoes, add the milk and 
boil a few minutes. Mix 1 tablespoon flour with a little cold 
water, add and boil until thick. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

1 small eggplant. 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon milk. 

1 teaspoon salt and pepper to taste. 

Breadcrumbs or cornmeal. 

Pare eggplant and cut into i/4-inch slices, then cut in 
half, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Beat the egg and milk 
together, dip eggplant in the egg mixture, then in breadcrumbs, 
fry in deep, hot drippings or oil. Drain on paper. Care must be 
taken to cover eggplant with the egg and crumbs. If there are no 
breadcrumbs on hand^ use cornmeal. 

CREAMED PEPPER CABBAGE 

1 quart finely cut or chopped cabbage. 

1 cup finely cut or chopped green peppers. 

1 cup cream dressing. 

Cover the cabbage with cold water for 30 minutes ; drain and 
shake dry; add peppers and dressing; mix well and serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

BOILED NEW POTATOES IN THE SKINS 

*In the first place, it takes less time to prepare them, no waste 
and the full flavor of the potato is retained. The brown skin may 
not look quite as attractive as the snow-white potato, but there is 
a mighty good flavor just under the skin which one does not get 
if the potatoes are pared. Try them some time. 



28 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

HASHED POTATOES WITH MEAT 

Left-over potatoes. Left-over meat. 

2 tablespoons finely cut onion. 

2 tablespoons finely cut parsley. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the potatoes and meat rather fine. If 3 cups of 
potatoes and % cup of meat are used, use 1 tablespoon of drip- 
pings; if less, use less drippings. Put drippings into frypan 
with the onion, cook a few minutes, then add the chopped pota- 
toes, season to taste. When heated thru add the chopped meat, 
and if a little gravy was left over, add it. Heat thru, serve on 
toast and sprinkle with parsley. 

Note : The hash will be improved if one uses the drippings 
from the roasted meat. 

CREAMED POTATOES— SCALLIONS 

1 quart small potatoes. 

2 cups scallions. 1 cup cream sauce. 
1 teaspoon salt. Dash pepper. 

Wash and scrape the potatoes, put over fire, add the whole 
scallions and boil until tender; drain, dust with salt and cover 
with the cream sauce ; sprinkle with pepper and dust with paprika. 
The onions and potatoes, boiled together and covered with the 
sauce, make a very tasty dish. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

1 quart potatoes. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 1 cup of cut onion. 

2 teaspoons salt. % teaspoon white pepper. 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Wash and boil the potatoes in their jackets. Put the drip- 
pings into frypan ; add the onion and fry until it is tender (not 
brown), then add the potatoes, which have been skinned and 
chopped. Heat thru, add salt, pepper and parsley. 

SUMMER SQUASH 

Wash and remove the stem and blossom end ; cut into small 
pieces; put in saucepan; cover with boiling water. Boil in un- 
covered vessel 25 minutes, or until tender. Drain, mash thru 
colander ; season with salt, pepper and a little butter. 

Note: When cooking the above, one does not have her hands 
all stained and there is no waste. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 29 

TOMATO SAUCE 

1 quart tomatoes after peeled and cut. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Boil the tomatoes very slowly until quite thick; add seasoning 
and flour; boil 5 minutes. 

Note: Another good way where no thickening is needed: 
Skin and cut the tomatoes; put in casserole or in shallow earthen 
dish and bake in oven (when baking).; season to taste. I fre- 
quently serve and prepare in small ramekin dishes; brush cas- 
serole or ramekin with butter; put in the tomatoes and seasoning. 
A little onion juice may be added. Bake slowly until tender; 
then stir with fork. 



SALADS 



AN ATTRACTIVE SPRING SALAD 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

% cup dressing or mayonnaise. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 

Cut the eggs in half the long way, remove the yolks. Cut 
the whites in narrow strips ; mash the yolks thru a strainer. Put 
a little lettuce on each plate and put about a teaspoonful of the 
yellow right in the center, and arrange the pieces of white around 
the yellow so as to make it look like a daisy; serve with French 
dressing. The dressing should have a little grated onion in it. 

DANDELION AND SCALLION SALAD 

1 quart dandelion. 

1 cup cut scallions. 

y2 cup dressing of choice. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

Clean, wash and cut the dandelion into %-inch pieces; scal- 
lions are cut the same. Put into cold water for 1 hour; dr:dn; 
put into a flour bag that you keep for that purpose. The egg is 
hard boiled at any time during the morning. Dressing can be 
made the day before. A good plan is to make enough salad dress- 
ing for a week. When mealtime comes, mix dandelion, scallions 
and dressing together, and garnish with finely chopped hard- 
boiled egg. 



30 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

DEVILED EGG SALAD 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 

% cup mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

6 tablespoons chopped green peppers. 

4 cups shredded lettuce. 

Mash the hard-boiled eggs thru coarse strainer; add the 
mayonnaise; mix well and form into small pear shapes. Roll in 
the chopped green pepper. Line platter with lettuce and place 
the pear-shaped egg mixture on top. 

A small piece of green pepper can be put at top for the 
stem. This is very attractive and makes a good salad. The 
mayonnaise or dressing should be strongly flavored with mustard 
and a little onion juice. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

2 cups cottage cheese. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

% teaspoon dry mustard. 

1 tablespoon scraped onion. 

% cup finely chopped celery or celery seed. 

1 small head lettuce. ^ cup French dressing. 

Mix cheese and flavoring until smooth, then add celery or 
celery seed. Separate lettuce, wash and shake the leaves, or put 
between tissue toweling to dry. The large leaves are cut in half, 
and on each piece put a spoonful of the cheese mixture ; roll and 
place on plate that is lined with shredded lettuce. Pour the 
French dressing or salad dressing of choice over the rolls. Gar- 
nish with finely cut pickled beets or carrots. 

LAMB AND MINT SALAD 

2 cups cold lamb. 

1 cup cut celery. 

2 tablespoons chopped green pepper. 
Salt and paprika to taste. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 

% cup salad dressing. 

2 cups mint gelatin. 

Remove all fat from cold boiled or roasted lamb; cut into 
small pieces ; mix with celery, green peppers, seasoning and half 
the dressing. 

Put the lettuce on shallow plate and the meat in center. Cut 
the mint gelatin, which is made as usual, into small blocks or nar- 
row strips, and place around the meat. Put the remainder of 
dressing over top of meat. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 31 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Wash and pare the pineapple and remove the eyes. Cut in 
half the long way and with fork pick into small pieces; serve on 
bed of lettuce with French dressing made with lemon juice instead 
of vinegar or with mayonnaise mixed with whipped cream. 



JELLIED TOMATOES IN BOATS 

Wash and pare 2 even-sized cucumbers ; cut in half the long 
way; point one end and round the other. Remove the center, 
leaving only a thin shell. Fill cucumber with jellied tomatoes cut 
into dice or fresh tomatoes cut in quarters. In the early fall, when 
cucumbers and yellow tomatoes are plentiful, cut them in quar- 
ters and put in the cucumbers and cover with boiled dressing. 

Note: Shrimp salad served in the cucumber boats is very 
attractive. 



WATERCRESS AND HARD-BOILED EGG SALAD 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 bunch watercress. 
A few lettuce leaves. 
1 cup salad dressing. 

Line a salad dish with shredded lettuce, wash and clean the 
watercress and make a bed of it on the lettuce; slice the whites of 
eggs very fine and place on top of watercress. Press the yolks of 
eggs thru potato ricer or strainer and sprinkle over top. 

Serve with a boiled dressing or dressing of choice. 



RHUBARB SALAD 

4 cups rhubarb, cut in i/^-inch pieces. 
1 cup sugar. 
y2 cup mayonnaise. 
4 cups shredded lettuce. 

Put the rhubarb on agate platter; sprinkle with sugar and 
place in moderate oven. Bake until tender, but not broken. When 
cold, lift rhubarb from syrup and place on lettuce. Serve with 
French dressing, ma,yonnaise or boiled dressing. The syrup is 
used for rhubarb whip or gelatin. Care should be taken not to 
bake too long. 



82 MRS\ SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHERRY AND BANANA SALAD 

2 ripe bananas. 
2 cups cherry gelatin. 
2 cups shredded lettuce. 
% cup cream mayonnaise. 

Skin and scrape the bananas and put thru fruit press or mash 
thru colander. Put into individual molds that have been rinsed 
with cold water and cover with cherry gelatin, made as usual. 
When firm, turn out on shredded lettuce. Put a teaspoonful of 
mayonnaise on each one. 

The red gelatin and white banana make a very attractive 
salad. 

Serve salted crackers with this salad. 

MIXED FRUIT WITH STRAWBERRY GELATIN 

1 cup sliced orange. 

1 cup sliced banana. 

2 cups strawberry gelatin. 
1 cup finely cut apple. 

14 cup dressing of choice. 
Lettuce leaves. 

Mix cut fruits, put on lettuce leaves and surround with diced 
gelatin, made as usual, or have individual molds and place on let- 
tuce and surround with the mixed fruits. Serve with dressing of 
choice. 

Toasted crackers go well with this salad, and no dessert is 
used. 

HAWAIIAN SALAD 

1 cup fresh grated cocoanut. 

2 cups seeded raisins. 

2 cups finely cut apples. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 

1 cup salad dressing. 

% teaspoon salt. 

1 medium-sized sweet pickle. 

1 pimento. 

Wash the raisins in warm water, drain s^d dry; mix with 
finely chopped apples, salt and half the cocoanut. Line salad dish 
with shredded lettuce, put mixture in center; cover with mayon- 
naise or salad dressing of choice; sprinkle top wiSi remainder of 
cocoanut; garnish with pickle, which has been cut itito thin slices, 
and thin slices of pimento. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 33 



TO KEEP LETTUCE FRESH 

As soon as purchased it should be cleaned and separated. 
If the center is hard, leave it whole ; put into cold water and 
wash ; drain in colander and shake dry, then put into a clean 
cotton flour bag or cheesecloth. If you have neither, put in 
paper bag and close top and place in a cold place. It is best 
to use the outside leaves first and where a whole head is used 
for one meal shred it in y^rinch. strips, using a sharp knife. 



SHRIMP SALAD, FRESH TOMATOES 

1 can shrimp. 2 cups shredded lettuce. 
% cup mayonnaise or salad dressing. 

2 tomatoes. 1 pickle. 

Put the shrimp into cold water 30 minutes ; drain ; remove the 
thin shell and break the shrimp into small pieces. Cut 2 toma- 
toes in half ; remove center and put the shrimp in them. Place on 
shredded lettuce and cover with dressing. Dust top with paprika ; 
garnish with thin slices of pickle. 



CRAB SALAD 

1 quart crab flake. 

1 cup mayonnaise, well seasoned. 

1 cup diced beets. % cup cut pickles. 

2 tablespoons chopped green peppers. 

Idne shallow bowl with shredded lettuce; put the crab flake 
in center; cover with well-seasoned mayonnaise. Garnish with 
pickles cut in rounds and diced red beets and sprinkle with finely 
chopped green peppers. 



CRAB IN TOMATOES OR PEPPERS 

Cut a thin slice from stem end of tomato ; remove center and 
all the seeds and fill with seasoned crab flake. Cover with mayon- 
naise, garnish with small sprigs of parsley or thin slice of pickle. 
Serve on lettuce leaf surrounded with shredded lettuce. This can 
be served in green peppers. 



34 Mies. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

1 teaspoon dry mustard. 1 teaspoon sugar. 
% teaspoon salt. Pinch of cayenne pepper. 
1 tablespoon lemon juice or vinegar. 
1 cup olive oil. 1 egg yolk. 

Mix mustard, sugar, salt and pepper in bowl ; add the yolk of 
egg; add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice and stir until smooth; then 
add the oil, drop by drop. When it is stiff add a little more lemon 
juice.^ Keep on adding the oil slowly, stirring constantly until the 
oil is used. Whenever it gets too stiff add a little more lemon. 
After the mayonnaise has formed the oil can be added a little 
faster. 

Note: It is very important that everything, including the 
bowl in which it is mixed, should be very cold. 



PIES 



RHUBARB PIE 

3 cups rhubarb. 1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon milk. 
W2 cups flour. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons shortening. 

Sift the flour and salt into bowl ; add shortening and rub very 
lightly with the tips of fingers until well mixed; add a few drops 
of cold water at a time until you can shape it. Divide into 2 
parts, roll out thin; dust pietin with flour and cover with 
dough, then sprinkle with 1 tablespoon of flour; put in the rhu- 
barb, which has been washed and cut into ^-inch pieces ; cover 
with the sugar and another tablespoon flour, brush edges with 
milk. Eoll out the top crust, cover and press the edges together. 
Make 2 or 8 cross cuts on top (for the steam to come out) ; brush 
the top with milk and bake in moderate oven from 35 to 40 min- 
utes. This makes a 7-inch pie. 

Rhubarb pie is one of the most difficult to make, the rhubarb 
being so watery. Always be sure to put the flour under and over 
the rhubarb. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 35 

CHERRY PIE 

11/^ cups flour. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 

3 teaspoons shortening. 

3 cups pitted cherries. 

1 teaspoon milk. 

1 cup sugar. 

Sift flour and salt into bowl ; add shortening and rub in very 
lightly; add just enough cold water to hold together. Divide and 
roll out thin ; dust plate with flour, line with dough, sprinkle bot- 
tom of dough with 1 tablespoon flour (to keep from becoming 
soggy) ; add the cherries, then another tablespoon flour and then 
the sugar. Brush the edge of bottom crust with cold water, then 
put on top crust, press the edges firmly. Brush top with a little 
milk ; make 2 or 3 airholes ; bake 30 to 35 minutes. Be sure the 
bottom crust is well baked. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE 

3 cups huckleberries. % cup sugar. 

1% cups flour. 3 tablespoons shortening. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 

Sift the flour and salt into bowl, add the shortening and rub 
in very lightly; add just enough cold water to hold together. Roll 
out on floured board ; line pietin ;. sprinkle crust with flour ; put 
in the huckleberries, which have been picked over; sprinkle with 
the sugar and a little flour ; wet edges with cold milk ; cover with 
crust; make 2 or 3 cuts in the crust, brush with milk and bake 
in moderate oven 45 minutes. 

PINEAPPLE MERINGUE 

1 cup grated pineapple. 

ll^ cups water. % cup sugar. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

A few grains of salt. 2 eggs. 

Put the water on to boil ; add the cornstarch, sugar, yolks of 
eggs, which have been mixed together. Boil for 5 minutes; add 
the grated pineapple and lemon. Set aside to cool. 

Line pietin with crust and bake same as for lemon meringue 
pie; pour in pineapple mixture. Beat whites of eggs until dry 
and add 2 tablespoons granulated sugar; beat until mixed and 
spread over the pie. Rough top with fork and dust liberally with 
pulverized sugar. Put in oven to dry. The oven must not be very 
hot. If it is, the meringue will dry on top and get watery on the 
bottom. 



36 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BLACKBERRY PIE 

What can be done so the berry pie will not be too juicy? Put 
the berries in colander or strainer, pour cold water over; when 
well drained, sprinkle liberally with flour; put in the crust. Mix 
14 cup of sugar with 1 tablespoon of flour and sprinkle over the 
top of berries. Brush the edge of bottom crust with milk before 
putting on top crust, and press firmly. This will keep the juice 
from coming out. 

Note: Red currant, gooseberry and raspberry pies are made 
the same as blackberry. 

ELDERBERRY PIE 

2 cups elderberries. % cup sugar. 
y2 teaspoon cinnamon. ^^ teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

Wash and pick the elderberries, put in saucepan with 1 cup 
of water, bring to boil, add sugar, salt, cinnamon and boil 5 min- 
utes, then add cornstarch, which has been mixed with a little cold 
water ; boil 3 minutes. When cold, put in pie plate, which has been 
lined with good pie dough ; cover and brush top with a little cold 
milk. Bake 30 minutes in hot oven. 

COCOANUT PIE 

1 can fresh grated cocoanut. ^ cup sugar. 

Pinch of salt. 1 cup milk. 2 eggs. 

Beat eggs, milk, sugar and salt together; add can of cocoanut; • 
pour into pietin that has been lined with pie crust. Bake in mod- 
erate oven on bottom rack 30 to 35 minutes, or until set. Try with 
silver knife ; if knife comes out dry, the pie is done ; if the custard 
and cocoanut separate, it has baked too long. This fills a 7-inch 
pie of regular depth. The crust is made as told before. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE 

3 tablespoons lemon juice. 

% teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

1-3 cup of sugar. 2 eggs. 

Pinch salt. 2 cups milk. 

Line deep pietin with good pie crust; pour in the mixture and 
bake until custard is set. If baked too much, it curdles, and the 
eggs separate. Always try a custard pie or pudding with a silver 
knife ; if the knife is dry after testing, the custard is done. The 
custard is made by beating the eggs, sugar, salt, milk; then add 
the lemon juice and rind. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 37 



TO KEEP IN PIE JUICE 

When baking rhubarb and cherry pie, it is important to 
sprinkle the lower crust with flour before putting in the fruit. 
It is also necessary to wet the edge of crust with cold water 
before putting on the top crust, so the juice does not come 
out. Do not forget to make 2 or 3 incisions in top to let the 
steam escape. If these suggestions are followed, there 
will be no need for cleaning the bottom of the oven after the 
pie is baked, as no juice will escape. 



LEMON MERINGUE PIE 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

1 cup sugar. Pinch salt. 

2 cups water. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

2 rounded tablespoons cornstarch. 

Put water on to boil; mix cornstarch with cold water; add 
sugar, salt, lemon juice and rind and the yolks of 2 eggs; beat 
all well together and add slowly to the boiling water; boil 3 min- 
utes. Pour into well-baked crust at once. 

When cooled, beat the whites of eggs until dry with 2 table- 
spoons sugar; spread on lemon, rough with fork; dust liberally 
with pulverized sugar; place in cool oven until dry and light 
brown. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 quart cream. 1 quart berries. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. Ice and salt. 

Wash the berries, hull and mash very fine and put thru fine 
strainea*; add sugar, milk and cream; put into freezer; pack with 
ice and salt and churn 10 minutes. Remove the dasher ; pack with 
ice and salt and set aside. The finer you break the ice, the quicker 
it will freeze. 

Note: Boil milk and sugar 2 minutes and cool before adding 
to berries and cream. 



38 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

STRAWBERRY WATER ICE 

4 cups strawberries. 

4 cups water. 2 cups sugar. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. Ice and salt. 

Put the sugar and water on to boil and boil 5 minutes; set 
aside to get cold. Mash the berries and strain thru fine strainer; 
add the sugar, water and lemon and put into freezer; close and 
put the ice and salt around the can, alternately, the same as for 
ice cream. 

Let it stand 5 minutes, then turn 10 minutes; remove the 
dasher and pack the same as ice cream, with ice and salt. 

FROZEN CHERRIES 

2 cups cherries. 2 cups water. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

Put the water and sugar on and boil 5 minutes; set aside to 
cool. Mash the cherries thru coarse strainer and add to the sugar ; 
add lemon juice, and if not sweet enough, add sugar to taste. 
Pour into freezer, pack with ice and salt; churn 8 to 10 minutes; 
do not freeze hard ; cover with burlap until ready to use. Serve 
in ice cream glasses or sherbet cups. 

RHUBARB SHERBET 

2 quarts cut rhubarb. 1 quart water. 
1% cups sugar. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind or ^^ teaspoon powdered 
cinnamon. 

Put the rhubarb on with cold water and bring to a boil. 
Boil until tender. Mash and add sugar and flavoring. Pour 
thru fine strainer; put into freezer 10 to 12 minutes. Do not 
freeze hard. The pulp is used for tarts or pudding. If pink 
rhubarb is used and not skinned, the sherbet will be a beautiful 
color. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

2 cups grated pineapple. 1 quart rich milk, 
2 cups sugar. 14 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 2 eggs. 

Put the milk on in top of double holier; when boiling add 
the cornstarch, which has been wet with a little cold milk. Beat 
the eggs and sugar together; add to the cornstarch; remove 
from fire at once. When cold, put into freezer; add ice and 
salt; turn 5 minutes, then add the pineapple, which has been 
mashed thru a wire strainer. Turn until stiff. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 39 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT ICE 

2 cups red raspberries. 

1 quart ripe red currants. 

2 cups sugar. 4 cups water. 

Wash the currants; put in saucepan with 2 cups of water; 
boil 5 minutes ; mash thru strainer. Put the raspberries on with 
1 cup of water; bring to a boil; mash thru strainer, then add 
the currant juice, sugar and water. Boil 2 minutes. When cold 
pour in iced freezer. Freeze same as sherbet. 

The currants and raspberries can be prepared early in the 
day and frozen 30 minutes before serving time. 

RASPBERRY FRAPPE 

2 cups raspberries. % cup sugar. 

2 cups water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Put the sugar and water on and boil 5 minutes ; set aside to 
cool. Mash and strain the raspberries, add to the sugar and 
water, add the lemon juice; pour into freezer, pack with ice and 
salt and churn 5 minutes. 



PUDDINGS 



CHERRY CUP CUSTARD 

2 cups rice stock. 1 cup pitted cherries. 

y2 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Pinch of salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Beat the eggs, sugar and salt until well mixed ; add the rice 
stock and cherries. Brush six custard cups with butter; pour in 
the mixture ; set in pan of warm water and bake 20 to 25 minutes 
in a moderate oven same as custard. Try by putting silver knife 
in center. If knife comes out dry, the custard is done. If 
not, it must bake until firm, but not separate. There is less 
danger of separating when made with the rice stock. 



HELPFUL HINT 

To try custards of any kind as to when they are cooked, 
put a silver knife in center; if it is dry when it comes out, it is 
done. Care should be taken not to overbake. 



40 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHERRY TAPIOCA 

4 tablespoons granulated tapioca, 
4 tablespoons sugar, 
2 cups stewed cherries. 2 cups water. 
Pinch salt. 1 cup whipped cream. 

Add the tapioca to the boiling water; boil until clear; add the 
cherries, sugar and salt. Pour into ice cream glasses ; when cold 
put a spoonful of marshmallow whip on top; garnish with an 
uncooked, stoned cherry. 

CHERRY BETTY 

2 cups pitted pie cherries. 1 cup sugar. 
2 cups coarse breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

2 tablespoons cold water. 

Brush small pudding pan with butter, put in y^ cup bread- 
crumbs, then y2 cup of cherries and 1^4 cup of sugar; then the 
breadcrumbs, cherries and sugar, making 3 layers of cherries 
and sugar and 4 layers of breadcrumbs ; dot with a little butter 
and pour over the cold water; cover and place in moderate oven 
20 minutes longer. Serve with cherry sauce made as follows: 

Sauce 

Put 1 cup water on to boil, add i/^ cup chopped and pitted 
cherries and 2 tablespoons sugar ; mix 2 teaspoons cornstarch with 
a little cold water and add; boil 3 minutes. 



CORNSTARCH WITH CHERRY 

3 cups milk. 4 tablespoons sugar. 
3 tablespoons cornstarch. 
14 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 cup cherries. 

Put the milk oh in top of double boiler; when it comes to a 
boil, add the cornstarch, which has been mixed with a little cold 
milk; boil 3 minutes; add the sugar, salt and any flavoring 
you like. Brush 4 cups with butter, pour in the cornstarch 
mixture; set aside to cool. When cold, turn out into saucedish 
and pour tiie cherry sauce around. Sauce made as told in former 
recipe 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 41 

CHERRY AND RICE DUMPLINGS 

% cup rice. 1 cup pitted pie cherries. 
14 cup sugar. Pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoon cornstarch. 

Wash and boil rice as usual, but do not blanch. Have four 
9-inch pieces of cheesecloth, dip in hot water, spread on saucer 
and put a quarter of the rice on each piece of the cheesecloth ; 
spread evenly; put 1 tablespoon of pitted cherries and 2 tea- 
spoons sugar in center ; bring rice up and over the cherries and 
tie firmly. Put the 4 dumplings in a saucepan of boiling 
water and boil 20 minutes. Serve with sauce made as follows : 

Chop the remainder of cherries small, put in saucepan with 
1 cup of water and sugar to taste, boil 10 minutes; mix corn- 
starch with a little cold water, add to cherries and boil 3 min- 
utes; set aside in cold place. When ready to serve, remove the 
cheesecloth, put dumplings in saucedishes and cover with sauce. 

BAKED CHERRY PUDDING 

1% cups flour. 

1% teaspoons baking powder. 

^4 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoons melted butter or substitute. 
1 cup pitted cherries. ^ cup sugar. 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder into bowl ; add the milk, 
well-beaten egg, melted butter; mix well and add the cherries 
and sugar. Butter a small turk's head or pudding dish in which 
you put a custard cup in center; pour in the mixture and bake 
in a moderate oven 45 minutes. Serve with cherry sauce, using 
% cup pitted cherries, chopped fine, to which you add 
4 tablespoons sugar and boil 10 minutes. Serve pudding hot 
with cold cherries. 

CHERRY ROLY POLY 

1 pound pie cherries. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon shortening. 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add the 
shortening and rub in very lightly. Add just enough cold milk 
to hold together. Roll out on floured board ^4: inch thick, cover 
with the cherries, which have been pitted, and sprinkle with the 
sugar and roll the same as for jelly roll. Put into bakedish that 
has been brushed with butter; brush top with milk; cover and 
bak^ 25 minutes. Uncover and bake 10 minutes or until 
browned nicely. Sprinkle roll with 1 tablespoon sugar and 1 
teaspoon butter. 



42 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

MOLDED RICE WITH CHERRIES 

1 cup rice. 1 cup pitted cherries. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Boil the rice in 4 quarts of boiling water 25 minutes; 
drain and dust with the salt (do not blanch the rice for mold) ; 
brush melon mold with butter (if you do not have melon mold 
use round bowl) ; put in the rice while hot; pack firm and set 
aside until cold. Remove the mold of rice and take out the cen- 
ter, being careful to leave at least 1%-inch thickness around the 
outside; fill with pitted cherries, which have been sugared 30 
minutes. In turning out mold be sure your plate or platter is 
large enough. Put the plate on top of the mold, turn the plate 
and mold over; gently remove the mold; it must be handled 
carefully. Garnish with a few cherries with the stems. 



STRAWBERRY MOLD 

2y2 cups milk, i^ cup cornstarch.' 

% cup sugar. 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

1 cup strawberries. 

Put 2 cups of milk on to boil. Mix the cornstarch and % 
cup of milk together; add the salt and 14 cup sugar; mix well 
and bring to the boiling point and boil 10 minutes; add vanilla. 

Einse 4 custard cups with cold water, pour in the corn- 
starch and set in a cold place for 2 or 3 hours. Or you 
can prepare it in the morning for the evening meal. Turn out 
on saucedish. 

Wash, hull and mash the strawberries with ^ cup of sugar 
and pour around the cornstarch. Put one large berry on top 
and serve. 



STEAMED CHERRY PUDDING 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. % cup milk. 1 egg. 

1 cup pitted pie cherries. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder into bowl, add the 
milk and well-beaten egg; mix all well together, add the cher- 
ries and sugar and mix well. Brush small kettle, mold or two 
1-pound baking-powder cans with butter; put in the pudding and 
steam 21/^ hours. Serve with any sauce desired, or with chopped 
and sugared cherries. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 43 



HOW TO MAKE CARAMEL 

Put one tablespoon of granulated sugar into small fry- 
pan, put over fire and burn until hard and black, remove 
from stove and add 1 cup of cold water, then return to 
stove and boil until entirely dissolved. Pour into a bottle 
for future use. 



DANISH STRAWBERRY PUDDING 

% cup crushed or pearl tapioca. 
2 cups water. 3^ cup sugar. 
1% cups crushed strawberries. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Wash and soak the tapioca; put over fire with 2 cups boiling 
water; add the salt and boil until clear; add the lemon juice, 
the crushed and strained strawberries and sugar. Serve cold, 
either in a large bowl or in ice cream glasses; garnish with 
whipped cream or marshmallow whip. 

RICE AND STRAWBERRIES 

% cup rice. 

2 cups crushed strawberries. 
Sugar to taste. % cup milk. 

1 teaspoon butter. ^2 teaspoon salt. 

Dash grated nutmeg or few drops vanilla. 

Wash and boil the rice 20 minutes; drain (do not blanch), 
put in top of double boiler, add the milk, 14 cup sugar, nutmeg 
or vanilla and salt ; boil slowly 20 minutes without a cover. The 
rice must absorb all the milk. Brush 4 custard cups with melted 
butter, fill with rice and set in refrigerator until cold. Turn on 
saucedish and cover with strawberries to which sugar has been 
added. Decorate with two or three green leaves. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

1 cup flour. 14 cup sugar. 
y2 cup milk. 1 egg. 

2 tablespoons melted butter substitute or cooking oil. 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup huckleberries. 

Sift flour, sugar, salt and baking powder into bowl ; add 
milk, well-beaten egg, butter substitute and berries. Mix well. 
Brush shallow earthen dish or deep pie plate with melted but- 
ter substitute. Pour in the mixture and bake in moderate oven 
20 to 25 minutes. Serve warm with milk or fruit syrup. 



44 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

RHUBARB FLUFF 

1 quart rhubarb. 1 cup flour. 

% cup milk. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Va teaspoon salt. 2 cups sugar. 

Wash, clean and cut in small pieces the rhubarb and put 
into saucepan, which has a close-fitting lid, with 1 cup of water; 
boil 10 minutes. Sprinkle with sugar and cover with dough. 
Put on the lid and boil 20 minutes without lifting the lid. 

Dough 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder into bowl; add the milk 
and mix well. Take a teaspoon of dough into floured hands and 
roll into balls; put over the rhubarb and boil as directed. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING 

2 cups gooseberries. 

2 cups diced stale bread. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Pinch of salt. 

Remove the blossom and stem and cut the gooseberries in 
half. Brush bakedish with butter and put alternate layers of 
bread, berries and sugar ; three of bread and two of berries and 
sugar. A little butter is put on top ; cover and steam 1 hour ; 
uncover, put in moderate oven for 1 hour. This can be served 
warm or cold. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



EASTER COCOANUT LAYER CAKE 

% cup butter. 1 cup sugar. 

3 eggs. % cup milk. 

y^ teaspoon salt, i^ teaspoon mace. 

2% cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream sugar and shortening together; add well-beaten 
yolks of eggs, salt, mace and milk alternately with flour, which 
has been sifted with baking powder. Beat whites of 2 eggs 
until light and mix in last. Bake in 3 layers in moderate 
oven 20 to 25 minUtes. Put together with jelly or icing. 

ICING — Boil 1 cup of granulated sugar and % cup of water 
until it spins a thread (do not stir the sugar while boiling). 
Beat the white of 1 egg until dry, then slowly add the sugar, 
beating constantly until thick and creamy. Spread over top 
and sprinkle with cocoanut. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 45 



HINTS FOR GOOD CAKE 

For good cake it is important to have the shortening 
and sugar well creamed. Use a wooden cake bowl and 
wooden spoon for creaming. For most cakes the eggs 
should be separated. The whites are beaten on flat dish, 
such as platter or soup plate, with a wire whip. For some 
cakes the yolks are beaten until creamy, for other cakes 
the yolks can be added to shortening and sugar. The 
milk should always be added alternately with the flour. If 
made as told, there will never be a tough or rough cake. 
Flour should always be sifted before measuring. 



HOT-WATER SPONGE CAKE 

% cup boiling water. 1 cup sugar. 
1 cup flour. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. Pinch salt. 
Flavoring to taste. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar together until light; add 
boiling water, flour and baking powder, salt and flavoring; 
then add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in two tins, 
which are brushed with melted shortening and dusted with 
flour, in a moderate oven for 20 to 25 minutes. Put layers to- 
gether with orange icing. 

MARBLE CAKE 

% cup of butter of shortening. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

3 eggs. 3 cups flour. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon. 14 cup cocoa. 

Cream the sugar and shortening together; add the well- 
beaten yolks of eggs and beat until very light; add the milk 
slowly to the mixture. Sift the flour and baking powder to- 
gether and add half, then half the whites of eggs, which have 
been beaten until dry, also the remainder of flour and whites of 
eggs. Divide into two parts. To the one part you add the sifted 
cocoa and cinnamon ; mix well. Brush pan with melted shorten- 
ing and dust with flour and put in first a spoonful of the dark 
and then a spoonful of the light dough. As there is a difference 
in the flours, it may be necessary to add 1/2 cup of flour to the 
light mixture. Your mixture must be stiff before putting in 
pan. Bake in moderate oven 40 minutes. It can be iced if 
desired. 



46 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

DIXIE GINGERBREAD 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup brown sugar. 

y2 cup shortening. 2 eggs. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 1 cup milk. 

3 cups flour. 4 level teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream molasses, sugar and shortening together; add the 
well-beaten eggs, salt and spices. Sift the flour and baking 
powder together and add alternately with the milk. Pour 
into well-greased pan and bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. 

EMERGENCY COOKIES 

V2 cup cocoa. 1 cup sugar. 

y2 cup boiling water. 1^ teaspoon salt. 

Bran crackers or butter thins. 

Mix the sugar and boiling water in bowl, place in pan of 
boiling water; then add the cocoa and salt, stirring very hard; 
when smooth, remove from pan of water, stirring it 5 min- 
utes. When cool (not cold), spread on crackers. It takes the 
place of cake and is easily made, wholesome and nutritious. 

PINEAPPLE LAYER CAKE 

y2 cup shortening. 1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 1-3 cup milk. 

2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream sugar and shortening together until creamy; add 
the well-beaten yolks of eggs and the milk slowly. Sift the flour 
and baking powder together; add half; then half of the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs, the remainder of the flour and the re- 
mainder of the whites of eggs; mix well. Bake in two layer 
pans that have been brushed with melted shortening and flour, 
for 25 minutes. Put together with pineapple filling. 

1 cup pineapple, put thru chopper. 

1 cup pineapple syrup. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. Pinch salt. 

1 ^SS- V2 cup granulated sugar. 

Put the syrup on to boil. Mix cornstarch with a little cold 
water; sugar, salt and yolk of egg; add to boiling syrup, boil 
until thick; then add half the chopped pineapple. When cold, 
spread between cake. Beat the white of egg until dry, add 2 
tablespoons granulated sugar, spread over top of cake; dust 
with pulverized sugar and put in oven to dry. Just before 
serving, garnish with small piece of pineapple. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 47 

RASPBERRY CAKE 

2 cups red raspberries. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. % teaspoon salt. 

y2 cup milk. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoon melted butter substitute. 

1-3 cup sugar. 

Mix flour, salt, half the sugar, milk, egg and butter sub- 
stitute, which has been melted. Beat until smooth; add baking 
powder ; mix well and then add the raspberries. Pour into tube 
pan, sprinkle the remainder of sugar on top; put in moderate 
oven and bake 40 to 45 minutes. Serve warm with milk, cream 
or sweetened raspberry juice. 



CHERRY TURNOVERS 

2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1/^ teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons shortening. 
1 cup milk. 1 cup pitted cherries. 
Va cup sugar. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder into bowl; add the 
shortening and rub in very lightly with the tips of fingers ; add 
enough cold milk to form into loaf; handle as little as possible. 
Roll out on floured bakeboard I/2 inch thick; cut with biscuit 
cutter, and on each piece put 6 or 8 pitted cherries and 1 tea- 
spoon sugar; brush the edges with cold milk, fold and press 
tightly together. Brush tops with milk and bake in moderate 
oven 25 to 30 minutes. 



SUGARLESS DROP CAKES 

1 cup syrup. 1-3 cup shortening. 
% teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons milk. 
% cup seedless raisins. 

1 well-beaten egg. 2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Put the syrup and shortening over fire, and when shortening 
is melted remove. When cold add salt, spices, milk, well-beaten 
egg; sift flour and baking powder into mixture, then add the 
raisins, which have been sprinkled with a little flour. Pour into 
muffin tins that have been brushed with fat. Bake in hot oven 20 
to 25 minutes. 



48 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

DROP CAKES 

% cup sugar, y^ cup shorteiling. 

1 egg. 2-3 cup milk. 

2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
% teaspoon salt, i^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream sugar and shortening and add well-beaten egg. Sift 
flour, baking powder and salt; add alternately with milk. Bake 
in iron gem pans in moderate oven about 10 minutes. This makes 
a rather stiff dough. 

To make attractive you can put currants or some chopped 
nuts on top. 



BRAN COOKIES 

2 cups bran. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

34 teaspoon soda. % teaspoon mace. 

^ cup syrup. % cup water. 

1 teaspoon shortening. 

Mix dry materials, add syrup and water. When thoroly 
mixed add melted shortening. Drop on to a buttered sheet round- 
ing teaspoons of the mixture, 2 inches apart. With a wet knife 
flatten into a thin round cake. Bake in a moderate oven 30 min- 
utes. 



THICK CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

V/z cups brown sugar. 

1/4 cup shortening. 14 pound chocolate. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

1 level teaspoon cinnamon. 

% cup milk. 2y2 cups flour. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream shortening and sugar together until light; add the 
chocolate, that has been melted over hot water; add salt and cin- 
namon, then the milk and flour, which has been sifted with the 
baking powder. Make a smooth dough ; put on floured board and 
roll out 14 iiich thick. Cut with old-fashioned cookie cutter. Place 
on floured bakepan; place in hot oven 8 to 10 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 49 

SPICE CAKES 

1 cup brown sugar, 14 cup shortening. 

1 cup New Orleans molasses. 

1 teaspoon baking soda. 

% cup boiling water. 2 eggs. 

Pinch salt. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Yz teaspoon ginger. 3 cups flour. 

Put the sugar, shortening and molasses into bowl, rub until 
smooth ; then add tiie baking soda, dissolved in the boiling water, 
the well-beaten eggs and mix well ; add the sifted flour, salt, cin- 
namon and ginger; mix thoroly. Line pan with paper, pour in 
the mixture and bake 20 to 25 minutes. 



GINGER DROP CAKES 

% cup shortening, i/^ cup brown sugar. 

% cup molasses (New Orleans). 

1-3 cup boiling water. 

1 level teaspoon baking soda. 

% teaspoon ginger. ^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

^ teaspoon salt. 1% cups flour. 

Cream the sugar, shortening and molasses together until 
smooth, then add the baking soda, which has been dissolved in the 
boiling water; add the ginger, cinnamon and salt; mix well; add 
the sifted flour, stir until smooth. Brush muffin tins with a little 
melted shortening, put 1 spoonful of mixture into each and bake 
20 minutes in a moderate oven. 



FRUIT DESSERTS 



PINEAPPLE IN NOVEL STYLE 

Wash, scrub and cut the top off straight across; with a sharp 
knife remove the center, discarding the core; cut the fruit fine, 
mix with % cup of chopped nut meats and i/^ cup of mayonnaise. 
Then fill into the hollowed pineapple and put the top back. Have 
a shallow bowl lined with lettuce and watercress and set the pine- 
apple in center. This can be prepared in the morning and set on 
ice. Serve from pineapple. 



50 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

PINEAPPLE FOR BREAKFAST 

For breakfast it can be served chopped fine, or it can be 
washed, pared, the eyes removed and cut into eighths. Serve 
with a small dish of pulverized sugar and eat with the fingers. In 
serving this way, finger bowls must follow. 

PINEAPPLE SYRUP 

Chop the skin and the core of the pineapple and cover with 
1 quart of cold water and let stand overnight. Next morning 
boil slowly 1 hour, strain and to each cup of pineapple add i^ 
cup of sugar and boil 10 minutes. Put in glass jar for future 
use. 

PINEAPPLE COCKTAIL 

1 medium-sized pineapple. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 tablespoon red jelly. 

Wash the pineapple and remove the top. Cut into quarters 

(do not peel). Remove the core and grate away the skin; add 

lemon and sugar; set in cold place until ready to serve. Put in 

cocktail glasses with cracked ice and on each place a little red 

jelly. 

USES FOR GRATED PINEAPPLE 

Grated or chopped pineapple served with cold cereal, sweet- 
ened to taste, makes a very pleasant change. Just plain sliced 
pineapple makes a good and easily prepared dessert or breakfast 
fruit. 

Grated pineapple poured over vanilla ice cream makes a 
pleasant change, or served with plain or cocoa cornstarch. All 
are easily prepared. 

GRATED PINEAPPLE APPETIZER 

Wash the pineapple in cold water and scrub with a vegetable 
brush. Remove the top, cut the fruit in half the long way, then 
in half crosswise; remove the core and grate the pineapple from 
the skin. You can add sugar if desired. Usually it is sweet 
enough as an appetizer. Serve in cocktail glasses with half a 
candied cherry on top. It must be very cold. 

PINEAPPLE HONEY 

Pineapple honey can be made at any time of the year, as the 
canned pineapple is as good as the fresh for the honey. In the 
first place, it is much sweeter. Put thru a food chopper, strain 
the syrup from the pineapple and to each cup of syrup add 1 cup 
of sugar and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice. Boil until it spins a thread ; 
add the chopped pineapple and bring to boil. Fill into glasses. 
This is exceptionally good with toast. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 51 

PINEAPPLE DAINTY 

Left-over pieces of cake can be dried in oven or toasted a 
nice brown, then put into bowl and covered with 2 cups of 
grated sweetened pineapple. Serve cold. Cover with white of 1 
egg whipped until dry with 1 tablespoon of sugar or a marshmal- 
low whip. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

2 cups pineapple water, i^ cup sugar. 
2 tablespoons granulated tapioca. 
Small pinch of salt. 

Put the skins of pineapple into saucepan with 4 cups of cold 
water and boil until there are only 2 cups of water; then press 
all the juice out of the skins; strain thru piece of cheesecloth, 
return to fire; add the tapioca, sugar or syrup and salt; boil until 
clear. Garnish with red jelly. 

STEWED BLACKBERRIES 

1 quart blackberries. 1 cup water. 
1 cup sugar. A few grains of salt. 

Wash the berries, add sugar, water and salt and boil 10 min- 
utest If it is to be used at once, a little thickening will make it 
go further. 

LEMON APPETIZER 

1 cup lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon grated lemon rind. 

1 cup sugar, li^ cups water. 

Boil sugar and water together 10 minutes. Remove from 
fire and add the strained lemon juice and grated rind. When 
cold serve over shaved ice and garnish with candied cherries 
and very thin slices on edge of glass. 

LEMON BUTTER 

4 tablespoons lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

% cup sugar, ^^ cup flour. 

1 cup water. 1 egg. 1 teaspoon butter. 

A few grains of salt. 

Put the water on to boil ; mix flour with a little cold water 
until smooth, add sugar, salt and well-beaten egg; boil until 
stiff. Remove from fire and add lemon juice, rind and butter ; 
beat yntil cold; spread on thin slices of bread- 



52 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CANDIED LEMON PEEL 

Lemon peels can be saved for flavoring and decoration. 
Wash the peel, cover with cold water 12 hours, drain and cover 
with boiling water and 1 teaspoon salt to each quart of water; 
boil in an uncovered boiler until tender; drain and lay on 
strainer until dry, then cut into strips 14 i^ch wide. 

Boil 1 cup of sugar with i/^ cup of water until it spins a 
thread; drop the lemon peel in the sugar, and with a fork lift 
out on to plate which has been dusted with confectioners' sugar; 
sprinkle peel with sugar, then let it dry. Put it away in a glass 
jar for future use. It can be served as a confection. 

Note : The fresh-grated lemon peel can be dried and used 
for cakes, puddings and cookies. 

SLICED BANANA DESSERT 

6 bananas. 1 cup boiling water. 

1/4 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

A few grains of salt. 1 tablespoon caramel. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

Add sugar and cornstarch, which have been mixed with a 
little cold water, to the boiling water ; boil 5 minutes ; add cara- 
mel and lemon juice and rind. Pour over bananas which have 
been scraped and sliced. Set in cold place until ready to serve. 
How to make caramel : Put 4 teaspoons sugar into small frying 
pan and melt until a light brown. 

BANANA PINEAPPLE TOAST 

,8 thin slices bran bread, crust removed. 

4 ripe bananas. 2 cups grated pineapple. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

Put the bread on an agate platter or plate evenly, then 
cover with sliced bananas. Dust with a little salt and sprinkle 
with 2 tablespoons of sugar. Put in hot oven until bananas are 
soft, remove, cover with the grated pineapple, to which 2 table- 
spoons of sugar have been added. Serve either warm or cold. 

BANANA WHIP 

3 ripe bananas. lA pint whipping cream. 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar. 
1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Mash the bananas thru fine strainer, add the sugar and 
lemon juice. Whip the cream until it is stiff, add the bananas, 
mix lightly with a fork. Put in cold place until ready to serve. 
Garnish with red jelly and serve in large bowl or ice cream 
glasses. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 53 



EAT MORE FRUIT 

Fruit not only has marked regulative value as a food, 
but it supplies a large share of the mineral salts which are 
needed to maintain "body-balance." Let the children eat 
plenty of fully ripe fresh fruits in season, and include a gen- 
erous portion in the daily menus for grown-ups. In buying 
fresh fruits, be careful not to get too much at a time. Some- 
times it is more economical to buy in smaller quantities, even 
tho the price advantage does not seem to be so tempting. 



BANANA CUSTARD 

3 ripe bananas. I/2 cup milk. 

14 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

1 e^g. Pinch of salt. 

A little grated lemon rind. 

Bring the milk to a boil in top of double boiler; add the 
cornstarch, which has been mixed with a little cold milk, the 
yolk of egg, sugar and salt; boil 10 minutes; add lemon rind 
and fold in well-beaten white of egg. Slice bananas into pud- 
ding dish or ice cream glasses; pour the warm custard over 
bananas. This can be made in the early morning for the even- 
ing meal. 

HUCKLEBERRY FLOAT 

6 milk biscuits. 2 cups huckleberries. 

Yo cup sugar. 3 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Pinch salt. 

Put the berries on with I14 cups of water and cook slowly 
10 minutes; add sugar, salt and cornstarch which has been 
mixed with a little cold water until smooth. Break the biscuits 
in half and place in shallow bowl. Pour the berries around. 
Dust the tops of biscuits with sugar and serve cold. 

Note : Milk biscuits are made, as usual, with 1 cup "of flour, 
1 teaspoon of baking powder and 1 tablespoon shortening. 

HUCKLEBERRY TOAST 

2 cups huckleberries. 

6 small slices toasted bread. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
1/0 teaspoon salt. 

Wash the berries, add I/2 cup boiling water and boil slowly 
15 minutes; mash with back of spoon; add sugar and salt. Mix 
cornstarch with a little cold water and add to berries; boil 3 
minutes. Lay toast on platter and pour the berries over. 



54 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



SAUCES, SYRUPS AND JAMS 



CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE 

Cream or white sauce, if flavored with a little garlic, 
scraped onion, grated nutmeg, mace, finely chopped green pep- 
per or pimento, adds very much to the food, as does the finely 
chopped parsley to looks and flavor. 

HORSERADISH CREAM DRESSING 

Beat 1^ cup heavy cream until it begins to thicken, then 
add 3 tablespoons vinegar, very gradually, while continuing the 
beating. When mixture is stiff, season with 14 teaspoon salt 
and a few grains of pepper and fold in 2 tablespoons grated 
horseradish root. 

BROWN SUGAR SAUCE 

Good on boiled rice or other cold boiled cereals. 

1% cups brown sugar. 1 cup water, 

1 egg. Pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon or orange rind. 

Mix the sugar and water until the sugar is dissolved, put 
on fire and boil until it is quite thick; remove from fire and 
pour slowly over the egg, which has been beaten until light; 
add salt and lemon rind, put on stove over hot water for a few 
minutes just to bring to the boiling point; it must not separate. 
This is exceptionally good on cold boiled rice or other cereals. 

FOAMY SAUCE 

White of 1 egg. % cup of sugar. 

1/2 cup hot milk. 

Juice of % lemon and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat the egg until light, but not dry; add sugar, beat well 
and add the milk, lemon juice and vanilla, beating constantly. 
Serve over pudding. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

1 cup mayonnaise. 

1 tablespoon each of finely chopped capers or olives and 
sour gherkins. 

1 teaspoon onion juice or finely cut chives. 

Be sure the mayonnaise is seasoned highly. Just before 
serving time add the other ingredients; mix and serve 
in sauceboat. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK S5 



HOMEMADE COTTAGE CHEESE 

When the milk is sour and thick put in shallow pan. 
Set in warm place; either on back of stove, warming shelf 
or in oven, leaving the door open. Let stand until it sepa- 
rates. Put in cheesecloth bag. Be sure the bag has been 
wrung out of cold water. First let it drain all night, then 
add a little salt and pepper. 



HOLLAND AISE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter or substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 2 eggs. 

^ teaspoon salt. Yg teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. 
1 tablespoon chopped onion. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Put the onion in the vinegar; bring to the boiling point 
and cool. Rub butter or butter substitute and flour together; 
add gradually the water; stir until boiling and add the strained 
vinegar. Take from the fire, stir in gradually the beaten yolks 
of eggs. Heat very gently just a moment, add the salt, pepper 
and strain. 

PARSLEY BUTTER 

Melt 3 tablespoons butter and mix with 3 tablespoons of 
finely chopped parsley. Pour this over new potatoes, which 
have been boiled and seasoned as usual. 

CARAMEL FOR DESSERTS 

Put 1 cup of granulated sugar into saucepan over slow fire. 
Melt and brown slightly or brown to taste. This is added to 
the boiling milk, dissolved and added to the other ingredients. 
For cup custards, some of the melted sugar is poured into the 
cups and spread around the sides and bottom; then the cold 
sweetened custard is added and baked. This is very attractive 
and the caramel flavor is delicious. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP 

1 quart red raspberries. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup water. 

Put water and sugar in porcelain-lined kettle and boil 
slowly 30 minutes; add berries, which have been mashed and 
strained thru fine wire strainer. Return to fire; bring to boil- 
ing point and skim. Fill into well-sterilized bottles; cork at 
once. When cold, dip tops in paraffin. Set in dark place. The 
corks must be new. 



56 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP 

1 quart blackberries. 1 quart of water. 
1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon lime or lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons orange juice. Pinch of salt. 

Rinse the blackberries in cold water ; put in saucepan with 
cold water; bring to a boil and boil quickly; mash thru wire 
strainer; add salt and sugar; stir until dissolved. When cold 
add orange, lime or lemon juice and serve cold or with chopped 
ice and slice of orange. 

TO PREPARE BERRY JUICE 

1 quart blackberries or berries of choice. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

8 tablespoons orange juice. 

Put the blackberries in saucepan with 1 quart of cold 
water ; bring to boil slowly and boil 10 minutes ; add sugar and 
a few grains of salt; mash thru wire strainer. When cold, add 
lemon and orange juices. Serve cold. This makes a \ery re- 
freshing drink. 

Red raspberries and currants made the same way and 
sweetened to taste make a very good and refreshing drink. 

Berry juice can be frozen the same as ice cream. To each 
quart of juice prepared as told for berry juice 2 cups of water 
are added and more sugar. When freezing juice it takes 
more sugar. 

LEMONADE 

1 cup (half pint) lemon juice. 

2 cups sugar, or sweetening to taste. 
1 lemon cut in very thin slices. 

1 orange cut in very thin slices. 

4 quarts water. 

Boil sugar with 1 quart of water, set aside to cool; add 
strained lemon juice and the rest of the water, the slices of 
lemon and orange over top. 

There is a difference in lemons; some are more acid than 
others. Lemons must be washed, dried and rolled before rim- 
ming or squeezing. Put the skins in 2 quarts of cold water 
half hour, drain and strain the water for the lemonade. 

A slice of lemon served with a cup of tea adds very much. 
The lemon should be scrubbed with a vegetable brush, rinsed 
and dried ; then cut in thin slices and served on an oblong dish, 
each slice overlapping the other. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 57 

CHERRY MARMALADE 

4 pounds sour cherries after pitting. 

3 pounds granulated sugar. 

Wash,, dry, stem and pit the cherries ; then put thru food 
chopper (large knife), saving all the juice, put into preserving 
kettle, add the juice and sugar and boil slowly until thick. 
Be sure to remove all the scum while cooking. Some cherrie? 
have more juice than others, especially if picked immediately 
after a rain. In that case it takes longer to cook them. 

This makes a most delicious marmalade and can be filled 
into large-mouthed bottles or tumblers of any shape; cover 
with paraffin or parowax. 

CHERRY JAM 

4 pounds cherries. 4 cups sugar. 

Pit cherries and put thru food chopper. Be sure to save 
all the juice; put into preserving kettle with the sugar, boil slowly 
until thick. A good spread for bread. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

3 quarts green gooseberries. 

6 cups brown sugar. 2 cups vinegar. 

6-inch piece of stick cinnamon. 

3 tablespoons whole cloves. Small piece of mace. 

Remove stems and blossoms of gooseberries; put into 
porcelain-lined kettle with sugar, , vinegar and spices, which 
have been tied in a piece of cheesecloth or mosquito netting. 
Bring to boiling point slowly and boil 1% hours, skim- 
ming carefully. 

While hot, pack in wide-mouthed bottles that have been 
sterilized; cork or cover with parowax and tie or paste paper 
over top. This makes a delicious accompaniment to cold meat. 
Cherries or currants can be done in the same way. 

ICED BLACKBERRY JUICE 

1 quart blackberries. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Wash the berries, put in saucepan, add sugar, water and 
salt; boil slowly 15 minutes; mash before straining thru wire 
strainer, then add lemon juice; put in glass jar; place in re- 
frigerator. Serve in small glasses. This is very refreshing 
with finely cracked ice. 



58 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CURRANT JELLY 

The currants should not be overripe, and are best if picked 
after a dry spell. Put into wire basket or strainer and plunge 
into cold water ; set them to drain, then put into porcelain-lined 
kettle, without picking from stems; then mash with wooden 
potato masher; boil 15 minutes and mash thru strainer; put 
the juice into bag and drip overnight. Next morning measure 
juice, put on fire to boil, and to each cup of juice add 1 cup of 
sugar that has been warmed in oven, being careful that it does 
not get too hot. After adding the sugar boil 8 to 10 minutes ; 
skim carefully; pour into glasses that have been dipped into 
boiling water. Set the glasses away 24 hours ; then cover with 
paper or parowax. 

EGG LEMONADE 

legg. 

1 lemon or 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. % cup water. 
14 cup shaved or cracked ice. 

Break the egg into large tumbler; add the lemon juice and 
sugar ; add the ice ; shake well and strain. 



HOME BREADS 



PLAIN WHITE BREAD 

3 cups scalded milk or half milk and half water. 
1 yeast cake mixed with i/4 cup lukewarm water. 
1 tablespoon shortening. 2 teaspoons salt. 
1 teaspoon sugar. 6 to 7 cups flour. 

Add the salt and butter to hot milk; set aside until luke- 
warm ; disolve the yeast cake in % cup of lukewarm water and 
add the sugar to the yeast; pour the liquid into bowl; then sift 
in the flour, beating with eggbeater until stiff. Turn out on 
floured board and knead until smooth. Brush bowl with a little 
melted fat, then put in the dough, cover and set in warm place to 
rise till double the quantity, then mold and put in 3 greased 
pans. 

RAISIN BREAD 

Raisin bread is made the same as the foregoing. Add 2 
cups of seeded raisins that have been washed and dried. The 
raisins are added to dough after half the flour is put into 
the liquid. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 59 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

V/2 cups scalded milk. 

iy2 cups lukewarm water. 

1 yeast cake. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

3 tablespoons shortening. 
V/a teaspoons salt. 

7 cups flour (whole wheat). 

Dissolve the yeast in a little lukewarm water; add sugar 
to the yeast. Dissolve shortening in warm milk and add the 
salt. Add the liquid slowly to the flour, the yeast last and 
anough flour to make a soft dough. Put in bowl, cover and set 
in warm place to rise to double its bulk; then knead and mold 
into loaves. Brush pan with lard or butter ; put in loaves ; cover 
and set to rise a second time. It should double in quantity. 
Bake slowly 1 hour, 

THREE-LEAF CLOVER ROLLS 

2% cups flour. 1 cup scalded milk. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 level teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespons shortening. 
% yeast cake. 

Add the salt and butter to the hot milk, set aside; when 
lukewarm dissolve the yeast cake in ^4 cup of lukewarm water 
and add the sugar to the yeast; pour the liquid into bowl; then 
sift in the flour, beating with eggbeater until stiff. Turn out on 
floured board and knead until smooth. Brush bowl with a little 
melted fat, then put in the dough, cover and set in warm place 
to rise. When it has risen to double the quantity, cut the dough 
into small pieces, then, roll the size of a hazelnut, put them 
into shallow, well-greased muffin tins and set to rise double 
their size. Brush top with milk and put in rather hot oven; 
bake 20 to 25 minutes. 

Note : If you do not have the muffin pans, place the 3 balls 
close together on a bake sheet, leaving quite a little space be- 
tween each cluster of 3 for rising. 

SOUTHERN RICE MUFFINS 

2 cups flour. 

4 level teaspoons baking powder. 
2 tablespoons butter. 2 eggs. 

1 cup cold boiled rice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1% cups milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add milk, but- 
ter and eggs. Mix well. When smooth add cup of cold boiled 
rice. Put in muffin tins and bake 20 minutes in hot oven. 



60 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



ACCURATE MEASUREMENTS NECESSARY 

It is very important to have accurate measurements in 
all cooking. Use the ^-piht cup. There should be 2 cups, 
one for dry and one for liquid measurements. Two level 
spoons make 1 rounded spoonful. 



HUCKLEBERRY MUFFINS 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 cup milk. 

1 egg. 1 level teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

8 tablespoons melted butter substitute or cooking oil. 
2 cups huckleberries. 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into bowl; add 
milk, well-beaten egg, butter substitute and huckleberries ; mix 
well. Brush muffin tins with melted butter substitute or oil, 
put in mixture and bake in moderate oven 25 to 30 minutes. 



CREAM MUFFINS 

2 cups flour. 1% cups milk. 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons melted shortening. 

2 rounded teaspoons baking powder. 
1 level teaspoon salt. 

Sift flour and salt into bowl; add milk, egg and fat; beat 
until well mixed; then add baking powder. Mix well, fill into 
well-greased muffin irons or tins. Bake 20 to 25 minutes. This 
makes 12 delicious muffins. One tablespoon of sugar can be 
added when one likes sweet muffins. 



BISCUITS WITH JELLY 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 tablespoon shortening. I/2 cup milk. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

Make dough the same as in foregoing recipe; roll or flatten 
out with hands on floured board, 1 inch thick ; cut with biscuit 
cutter. Place on bakepan ; brush top with milk aiid bake 12 to 
15 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 61 

BISCUIT DOUGH COFFEE CAKE 

2 cups flour. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 

^ teaspoon salt. V^ to % cup milk. 

% cup brown sugar. 

1 teaspoon butter or substitute. 

1/2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add shorten- 
ing and rub in very lightly, then add milk and mix lightly. 
Dust board with flour and roll % inch thick; put on pietin and 
brush with melted butter or substitute. Mix sugar and cinna- 
mon together and sprinkle over top. Bake 15 to 20 minutes. 
This is best when warm. 

BISCUIT DOUGH SUGAR ENVELOPES 

Make a dough the same as in foregoing recipe. Roll out ^ 
inch thick, cut into 4-inch squares, brush with a little butter 
and put 1 teaspoon of brown sugar on each piece ; fold over the 
flap to resemble an envelope; press so it will hold together; 
brush the tops with milk in which you have dissolved a little 
brown sugar. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

BROWN SUGAR ROLLS 

1 cup brown sugar, 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

14 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon shortening. 

y2 cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Make the dough as in foregoing recipe; roll out 14 inch 
thick (the amount of milk depends on the kind of flour you use). 
Have the butter soft and spread over the dough; roll same as 
jelly roll; cut into 2-inch pieces, place on pan that has been 
brushed with a little lard, cut side down. Bake in moderate 
oven 30 minutes; remove from pan at once. 

PEANUT BUTTER PIN WHEELS 

Either the sweet dough or bread dough can be used for 
these. They are delicious for children's lunch. When baking 
bread it is very easy to take some of the dough when it is ready 
to form into loaves and roll out % inch thick. Then put the 
peanut butter on in small dabs all over the dough. Roll same 
as jelly roll, cut into i/^-inch pieces; put in well-greased shal- 
low pan, cover with damp cloth. When raised to double the 
size put in hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. Remove from oven and 
brush top with a little milk. Return to oven a few minutes. 
This makes a delicious luncheon roll. 



62 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

SOUTHERN POTATO BISCUIT 

3 cups flour. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup hot mashed potatoes. 

3 tablespoons butter or other shortening. 

% cup milk. 1 egg. 

Mash the potatoes thru strainer, add salt, milk and butter 
or shortening, and well-beaten egg. Beat until smooth, then 
sift in flour and baking powder. Turn out on floured board, cut 
with small biscuit cutter ; put into hot oven ; bake 20 minutes. 



SALLY LUNN 

1 cup flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder, i/^ teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon melted butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 cup milk, 
legg. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into a bowl; 
add the milk, well-beaten egg and butter; mix well. Brush 
square pan or large pietin with butter substitute ; pour in the 
mixture and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Heat knife before cutting the Sally Lunn; all hot bread 
must be cut with hot knife. 



SOUTHERN BATTER BREAD 

1 cup cornmeal. 

2 cups milk. 1 cup water. 
2 eggs. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted lard or butter. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Put the milk and water on in double boiler ; when boiling 
add the cornmeal and salt, stirring slowly until it thickens, and 
boil 25 minutes. Separate the eggs; beat the yolks until well 
mixed and add to the mush; beat vigorously 3 minutes, then add 
baking powder. Beat the whites of eggs until light and fold in 
lightly. Brush earthen dish with lard or butter and pour in 
mixture. Put in moderate oven and bake 35 or 40 minutes. 
Serve at once in dish in which it has been baked. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 63 



BEVERAGES 



HOW TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE 

Many inquiries come from members of The North Amer- 
ican Cooking Club, asking how to make a cup of good, strong 
coffee. 

First, there must be good coffee, whether made in per- 
colator or in the ordinary coffee pot. One rounded tablespoon 
of ground coffee (always use finely ground coffee for the per- 
colator, also for coffee made in an agate pot) to each cup of cold 
water. Be sure the coffee pot is washed and thoroly dried each 
time it is used. When making coffee in an agate pot, put the 
coffee in and pour the water over and bring slowly to a boil ; 
boil 2 minutes. Add 1 tablespoon crushed egg shells or a little 
cold water to settle it. Do not boil over 2 minutes, but let it 
come to a boil slowly. 

DRIP COFFEE 

6 heaping teaspoons finely ground coffee. 

5 cups fresh boiling water. 

Rinse drip pot with hot water. Place the finely ground or 
pulverized coffee in the drip bag, pour the freshly boiled water 
on coffee in the drip bag, and after it has dripped thru remove 
bag from pot and coffee is ready to serve. When making less 
than 4 cups, pour coffee thru drip bag a second time. 

FRENCH COFFEE 

11/2 cups ground coffee. 

6 cups freshly boiled water. 

Put coffee in a flannel bag, tie top and put in an old- 
fashioned coffee pot; pour on the boiling water, boil 10 minutes; 
serve in another coffee pot. One egg shell may be broken and 
mixed with coffee before placing in bag. 

AFTER-DINNER COFFEE 

3 rounding tablespoons ground coffee. 

1 pint water. 

Use drip pot. Put the coffee in the muslin bag and pour 
over this water which has just reached the boiling point. After 
the water filters thru into the lower receptacle draw it off and 
pour thru a second time. Serve in after-dinner coffee cups 
without cream. 



64 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CAFE AU LAIT 

¥2 cup pulverized coffee. 

1 pt. water. 

1^ cups hot milk. 

Put coffee into a filter, or drip coffee pot, add boiling water 
and filter 3 times. In pouring, add 11/2 cups of hot milk. Serve 
very hot. 

A GOOD DRINK FOR CHILDREN 

Put half cup of sugar into pan and brown slightly; add 2 
cups of hot milk and boil until the sugar has been dissolved, 
then add brown sugar to taste. 

HOW TO MAKE GOOD COCOA 

Mix 1 round teaspoon cocoa with li^ teaspoons sugar (or 
sugar to taste) in 14 cup cold water; boil 3 minutes; add 14 cup 
hot milk. Or make with 1 cup water and dress with cream — 
the same as coffee. Cocoa is best if boiled with water and sugar, 
and can be made on a small alcohol lamp at table. 



SEASONABLE DESSERTS 



RASPBERRY GFXATIN 

2 cups raspberries. 2 cups water. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon gelatin. 34 cup honey. 

Wash the berries; mash with the honey; add 1 cup of water 
and the lemon juice. Soak gelatin in a quarter cup of water 10 
minutes; dissolve % cup of boiling water. Mash berries thru 
strainer and add to the gelatin; pour in bowl which has been 
rinsed with cold water. 

RASFBERRY-BANANA DESSERT 

1 cup raspberries. 4 bananas. 

% cup sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

% cup cold water. 

Pick and wash the raspberries, add sugar and set in a cold 
place 30 minutes; then mash and strain thru fine strainer, add- 
ing the water slowly. It is best to use a spocn to mash the 
berries. Skin and slice the bananas and cover with the rasp- 
berry juice, adding lemon. Serve in bowl or glasses. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 66 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

2 cups very ripe strawberries. 1 cup sugar. 
1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 

1 cup cream. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Wash, hull and mash the berries. Add sugar and stir until 
dissolved; strain thru a wire strainer that will keep back 
the seeds. 

Soak the gelatin in cold water and set over boiling water 
until dissolved. Add this to the strained strawberries and 
sugar. When cold, place in a pan of cold water and beat until 
it becomes thick; then fold in the cream which has been whipped 
until stiff. 

Rinse the mold in cold water and pour in the mixture; 
pack in ice and salt. It should stand 3 to 4 hours before serving, 
then wet a tea towel in hot water and fold around the mold, 
turn on a shallow plate and garnish with whipped cream and 
whole strawberries. 

LEMON CRUMB PUDDING 

2 cups dry breadcrumbs. 2 cups hot milk. 
% cup sugar. 3 tablespoons lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

1 egg. Pinch of salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Put the crumbs in a bowl; pour over the hot milk; add the 
salt, a well-beaten egg, the grated rind and juice of lemon ; mix 
well. Brush bakedish with a little butter; put in mixture and 
bake 40 minutes in a slow oven. Serve plain with a hot 
lemon sauce. 

LEMON CRUMB PATTIES 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

2 cups dry breadcrumbs. 

2 cups boiling milk. ^^ cup sugar. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Pour the boiling milk over the breadcrumbs. When cold, 
add lemon rind, sugar, salt and well-beaten eggs. Brush 6 
custard cups with butter, put in the mixture, place in moderate 
oven and bake 30 minutes, or until firm. Remove from cups, 
put in saucedishes and cover with lemon sauce made as follows : 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

14 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 2 teaspoons cornstarch. 

1 cup water. Pinch salt. 

1 teaspoon caran^el. 

Put the water on to boil ; mix cornstarch and sugar with a 
little cold water; add and boil 3 minutes; add lemon and cara- 
mel. This dessert is best warm. 



66 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



USE LEMON AND ORANGE RIND 

Be sure to use lemon and orange rind for flavoring. 
Grate the rind and spread thin on china plate and put in 
slightly heated oven, stirring several times. When well 
dried, put into glass bottle or small glass container. Keep 
in a dry place. 



RICE MOLD WITH BERRY SAUCE 

3 cups cold boiled rice. 1 cup berry juice. 

2 teaspoons cornstarch. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Press the rice into mold, then turn out on a deep plate and 
pour the berry sauce around. Put 1 cup of the berry juice into 
saucepan over fire, bring to a boil and add the cornstarch that 
has been mixed with a little cold water; boil 3 minutes; add 
sugar and a few grains of salt. You know, when stewing ber- 
ries, there is always a goodly amount of juice, and this is a 
profitable way to use it. 

BLACKBERRY CRACKER PUDDING 

1 cup crushed crackers. 

2 cups stewed blackberries. 

4 marshmallows. 

Put 2 tablespoons of crackers in ice cream glasses or sauce- 
dish. Gover with 4 tablespoons of stewed berries and marsh- 
mallow on top. The marshmallow takes the place of sugar and 
whipped cream and is much less trouble. 

ORANGE TAPIOCA SUPREME 

4 tablespoons granulated tapioca. 

3 cups water. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. % cup sugar. 

1 cup orange juice (2 oranges). 

y2 level teaspoon salt. 

Soak the tapioca in cold water 1 hour; put on in top of 
double boiler and boil until clear; then add sugar, salt, orange 
and lemon juice and a very little of the grated orange skin. 
Remove from fire; serve ice cold in ice cream glasses with 
whipped cream or a small piece of marshmallow on top. If you 
have neither, garnish with a teaspoon of orange marmalade or 
a little red jelly. This makes an attractive dessert. 

It is helpful to use a little lemon juice with the orange, as 
it brings out the orange flavor. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 67 

BAKED COTTAGE CHEESE CUSTARD 

W2 cups cottage cheese. 

1 cup milk. 2 eggs. 

Pinch of salt. Cinnamon. 

Mix cottage cheese with milk, sugar and salt, then add 
well-beaten eggs; brush 6 small custard cups with butter 
substitute, pour in the mixture, sprinkle with cinnamon and 
bake in moderate oven same as cup custards, being careful not 
to bake until it separates. 

COTTAGE CHEESE PUDDING 

1 cup cottage cheese. 

1 qt. skimmed milk, i/^ cup sugar. 

1/2 cup seeded raisins. Pinch of baking soda. 

2 eggs, y^ teaspoon salt. 

1/^ teaspoon cinnamon. 2 cups stale bread. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

Brush bakedish with butter substitute; break the bread 
into small pieces; beat the eggs until light; add part of milk, 
sugar, salt and raisins; rub the cheese until smooth with the 
balance of milk and soda; add to egg mixture and pour over 
broken bread. Sprinkle with cinnamon and put in moderate 
oven 45 minutes. This makes a very hearty dessert. 

CREAMY RICE PUDDING 

1 cup condensed milk. 

14 cup rice. % cup raisins. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 4 cups water. 

Wash the rice as usual ; add the rice to the water and boil 
15 minutes; add the condensed milk and salt; pour into bake- 
dish and place in moderate oven; bake slowly 1 hour; stir 
several times at least; at the last stirring add the well-washed 
raisins. This is sweet enough and should be quite thick. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 69 



Part II— Summer Recipes 

(July, August, September) 



HOT AND COLD SOUPS 



CLAM BISQUE 

4 cups milk. 5 large clams. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon onion juice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 14 teaspoon paprika. 

Put the milk on in top of double boiler. Put clams thru food 
chopper, then into saucepan with the onion juice and bring to 
boiling point, remove the scum and take from fire at once. Rub 
butter and flour together until smooth ; add to the boiling milk 
and stir until creamy; add salt, pepper, paprika and parsley, add 
clams and serve. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

1 quart milk. 1 quart finely diced potatoes. 
y2 cup chopped onions. % cup flour. 
1 tablespoon drippings or butter substitute. 
1 tablespoon salt. 

1 teaspoon cut parsley or celery top. 

2 teaspoons dried thyme. Pepper. 

Icup finely chopped raw clams (about 6 large ones). 

The potatoes and onions are put into a saucepan, with water 
to cover, boil until tender; do not drain; add the flour to the soft 
drippings and mix until smooth; add the clams and clam juice, 
seasoning and flavoring. Boil 5 minutes, then add the milk, which 
has been brought to a boil. Serve with hard crackers. This is a 
meal in itself. 



70 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CREAM OF LETTUCE SOUP 

For this use the outside leaves of lettuce, no matter how 
coarse, washed and shredded. 

4 cups shredded lettuce. 2 cups boiling water. 

2 cups boiling milk. 1 level teaspoon salt. 

Pinch of pepper. 

1 teaspoon scraped onion or 14 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Put the lettuce in saucepan, cover with boiling water; boil 
slowly 30 minutes; mash thru strainer; add milk, seasoning and 
flavoring. Mix soft butter substitute with flour until smooth and 
add to boiling milk and lettuce. Boil 5 minutes, sprinkle with 
paprika, chopped parsley or a little chopped green lettuce just 
before serving. 



OLD-FASHIONED VEGETABLE SOUP 

1 pound soup meat. 

1 cup each of diced potatoes, carrots, onion, cabbage, toma- 
toes, beans and celery or any left-over vegetables. 
14 cup barley. 1 tablespoon salt. 
A little pepper. 2 tablespoons cut parsley. 

Put the meat on to boil with 3 quarts of cold water; when 
boiling, add the well-washed barley and boil li^ hours, then add 
the vegetables, boil 45 minutes, add seasoning and parsley. The 
meat is used next day for hash or meat loaf. 



CREAM OF ONION SOUP 

2 cups cut onion. 2 cups milk. 

2 cups onion stock. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 14 teaspoon nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon salt. A little white pepper. 

Dash paprika. 

Cut the onion into small pieces. Put on fire with 2 cups 
of water and boil 20 minutes ; rub thru strainer and add the boiling 
milk. Add the butter substitute and flour, mixed until smooth, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg and paprika ; boil 5 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 71 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

2 cups milk. 2 cups stewed tomatoes. 

1 teaspoon onion juice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter or oleomargarine. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Put the milk on in top of double boiler. Put the tomatoes 
and onion juice into saucepan; boil 10 minutes; strain and add 
to the boiling milk, add salt, sugar, pepper, butter and flour, rub- 
bed together; boil 5 minutes. 

BLACKBERRY SOUP 

1 quart blackberries. 

1 quart water. 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon lime or lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons orange juice. Pinch of salt. 

Rinse the blackberries in cold water, put in saucepan with 
cold water, bring to a boil and boil quickly; mash thru wire 
strainer, add salt and sugar, stir until dissolved; when cold add 
orange, lime or lemon juice and serve cold or with chopped ice 
and slice of orange. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT SOUP 

2 cups red raspberries. 

1 cup currants. 1 cup sugar. 

4 cups water. Thin slices of orange. 

Rinse the currants without picking, put in saucepan with 
cold water, bring to boil quickly and boil 3 minutes ; mash thru 
strainer; return to fire, add raspberries and sugar; bring to 
boil, then mash thru strainer a second time. Serve ice cold or 
iced, with a slice of orange in each glass. 



FISH AND CLAMS 



BAKED TROUT, POTATO BORDER 

Have fish cleaned, split and backbone removed. Brush 
bakepan with drippings; lay the fish skin side down; dust with 
salt, pepper and flour; pour over 2 tablespoons melted butter 
substitute and i/^ cup milk; place in hot oven and bake 30 to 35 
minutes, or until a nice brown. Remove to hot platter ; sprinkle 
with chopped parsley. 

Boil and mash 1 quart of potatoes, heap around fish with a 
tablespoon and dust with paprika; garnish with, thin slices 
of lemon. 



72 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

PANNED FISH 

Any small fish can be used. Butterfish costs the least per 
pound and there is little waste as far as head, bone and scales 
go, but if not fried correctly they are very expensive. If put in 
a half warm pan they crumble from the main bone and stick to 
the pan; then when one goes to eat them there is nothing left 
but bones. Then again, they can be fried too quickly, and be 
undercooked in the center or fried so hard that nothing is left 
but skin and bone. Therefore, it is necessary to fry them care- 
fully as they are an exceptionally good pan-fish. 

Clean and remove head, put two %-inch gashes on each 
side in the thick part. Wash and dry the fish ; dust with salt 
and dip in cornmeal or flour. Put a little drippings in frypan; 
when hot, put the fish in pan, sear quickly on both sides, turning 
with cake turner, being careful not to break them, reduce the 
heat and fry slowly on both sides Until nicely browned. 



BAKED FISH, POTATO BORDER 

Have fish cleaned, split and backbone removed. Brush 
bakepan with drippings; lay the fish skin side down; sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and flour; pour over 2 tablespoons melted 
butter substitute and i/^ cup milk; place in hot oven and bake 
30 to 35 minutes, or until a nice brown. Remove to hot platter; 
sprinkle with chopped parsley; garnish with slices of lemon. 
Put mashed potatoes around fish with a tablespoon and dust 
with paprika. Thin slices of lemon are put on the fish. 



MINCED CLAMS IN PATTIES 

2 cups minced clams. 1 cup cream sauce. 
8 small bread cases or pattie shells. 

Chop clams fine, bring to boiling point, skim and add to 
the cream sauce. Sauce is flavored with a half teaspoon of 
onion juice and salt and pepper to taste. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 73 

DEVILED CLAMS 

8 large clams. 1 cup milk. 
1 tablespoon butter substitute. 
1 tablespoon flour. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley. 
% cup fresh breadcrumbs. 
% cup dry breadcrumbs. 

% teaspoon salt. Dash white pepper. 
Dash paprika. 

Drain and rinse the clams, put thru fine food chopper, then 
put into saucepan, add the onion and bring to a boil, then add 
the boiling milk. Rub the butter substitute and flour together 
and add to the boiling clams and milk, stirring until it thick- 
ens ; add salt, pepper, parsley and fresh breadcrumbs ; mix well 
together; set aside until cool. Have 8 or 10 clam shells; wash, 
scald and dry; then fill in the clam mixture and dust with dry 
breadcrumbs. Beat 1 egg with 1 tablespoon cold milk; lift the 
clam shell with skimmer or large spoon and cover with the 
beaten egg, then with the breadcrumbs. Bake 5 minutes in a 
hot oven or fry in deep hot fat. 



SHRIMP NEWBURG 

1 pound fresh or a can of shrimp. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 

y2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 
1 teaspoon salt. Pinch red pepper. . 
Dash paprika. 

Remove the shrimp from can, cover with cold water and 
let stand for 20 minutes; remove thin shells. Put the butter 
in saucepan ; when melted add the flour and stir until smooth ; 
then add the cold milk slowly; boil until smooth and thick. 
Rub the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs thru strainer and add to 
the sauce ; stir until smooth ; add salt, pepper, Worcestershire 
sauce and the finely chopped whites of hard-boiled eggs. Drain 
and dry the shrimp. Put all in top of double boiler and set over 
fire for 20 minutes. Serve with small pieces of toast. 

If live shrimp are purchased, boil in salted water 25 
minutes; then remove shell. 



74 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CURRIED SHRIMP WITH RICE 

1 pound or can shrimp. 

1 cup milk. 2 cups sliced onion. 

2 tablespoons oleomargarine. 
1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon curry powder. 2 teaspoons salt. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley or green pepper. 

Wash, boil and blanch the rice as usual, spread on hot plat- 
ter and sprinkle with 1 teaspoon salt. Open can of shrimp, 
break them in halves, cover with cold water for i^ hour, then 
drain and add to the curry g"uce and boil 10 minutes; then 
spread on top of rice. The onions are smothered and put 
around the edge. Sprinkle all with chopped parsley 
and paprika. 

Curry Sauce 

Put oleomargarine into saucepan; when melted add flour 
and curry powder. Mix until smooth, then add the milk slowly; 
boil until smooth and thick. Add i^ teaspoon of salt; the other 
half teaspoon is used for onion. 



BEEF, LAMB AND COMBINATION DISHES 



BEEF EN CASSEROLE 

1 pound lean stewing beef. 
1 quart small or cut potatoes. 

1 cup cut carrots. 2 cups small onions. 

2 cups cut celery (if you have it). 

1 tablespoon salt. Pepper to taste. 

2 tablespoons flour. Caramel. 

Cut meat in small pieces, sear in frypan with a little drip- 
pings, put in casserole with vegetables, seasoning and water, 
cover and bake in slow oven 2^/^ hours, add thickening and cara- 
mel ; serve in dish in which it was baked. 

If you haven't a casserole, use any earthen dish which can 
be covered. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 75 

ROUND STEAK, SAUCE PIQUANT 

1 pound round steak. 

2 cups sauce. 

Pound the steak and sear quickly in hot iron frypan that 
has been brushed with a little drippings ; when meat is browned 
nicely on both sides, add sauce and cover pan and simmer very 
slowly 40 to 45 minutes on top of stove, adding a little water 
if needed. 

Sauce Piquant 

2 tablespoons drippings or cooking oil. 
^ cup finely cut onions. 
2 tablespoons finely cut green pepper. 
2 cups tomatoes. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
2 teaspoons salt. % teaspoon paprika. 
Ys teaspoon whole cloves and allspice. 
A piece of whole mace. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon table sauce. 

2 tablespoons finely cut parsley or celery top. 
1 tablespoon caramel. 

Put the drippings or oil into frypan, add the onion and pep- 
pers and fry until brown, then add tomatoes and spices and fry 
until quite dry, stirring often ; add 2 cups of vegetable or rice 
stock or water and seasoning; cook slowly 30 minutes (sim- 
mer), add flour, which has been mixed with a little water; boil 5 
minutes, then rub thru strainer and add table sauce and cara- 
mel, parsley or celery top. 

This can be made and put in glass jar and will keep 
2 or 3 weeks. 



CHUCK ROAST WITH POTATOES 

Wipe the chuck or 3-cornered roast beef, put into hot oven 
for 30 minutes or until well seared; then sprinkle with 1 table- 
spoon salt, add 1 cup of cold water; reduce the heat of oven and 
roast 1 hour in a covered pan, water being added as it is needed. 

Wash, pare, boil and skin the potatoes; place around the 
meat and roast 30 minutes, or until brown. Remove the meat 
and potatoes to hot platter; to the pan gravy add 2 tablespoons 
flour mixed with a little cold water, seasoning to taste and 1 
tablespoon caramel ; boil 3 minutes. 



76 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

HAM CROQUETTES, CREAM SAUCE 

1 cup cold ham. 1 cup boiled rice. 

V^ cup cream sauce. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 egg and breadcrumbs. 

Ys teaspoon paprika and salt to taste. 

Put the ham and rice thru meat chopper, add the cream 
sauce, onion, mustard, Worcestershire sauce, parsley, paprika 
and salt to taste (very little is needed as the ham is salted) ; 
mix well; spread on platter, place in refrigerator to get firm. 
Divide into 6 parts and form into cones or oblong rolls. Roll 
in floured hands, then in the egg, which has been beaten with 
1 tablespoon of milk, then in breadcrumbs. Be sure the cro- 
quettes are well covered with egg and breadcrumbs so they will 
not break. Fry in very hot drippings or oil. Serve with cream. 



HAM MOUSSE WITH SAUCE 

2 cups lean cold boiled ham. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 

1 teaspoon mustard. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

J^: teaspoon paprika. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

1 cup rich milk. 2 tablespoons chopped green peppers. 

Put the ham thru food chopper (fine knife) . Soak the gela- 
tin in 2 tablespoons cold water for 10 minutes; then dissolve in 
the milk, which has been brought to the boiling point; stir until 
dissolved; pour over the ham and add the mustard, sugar and 
paprika, which has been mixed with the vinegar; add pepper and 
mix well. Put into mold, which has been rinsed in cold water. 
Set in cold place. When firm remove from mold to chop plate, 
which has been covered with lettuce cut into thin strips, and serve 
with the following sauce: 

3 tablespoons stiff mayonnaise. 

1 tablespoon grated horse radish. 

1 tablespoon vinegar, tarragon or onion flavor. 

1 teaspoon dry mustard. 

% teaspoon salt and a few grains of pepper. 

1 cup whipped cream. 

Mix the dry ingredients with the vinegar; add the mayon- 
naise ; fold in the whipped cream. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 77 

MUTTON CHOWDER 

1 pound neck or breast of mutton. 

1 quart diced carrots. 

2 cups diced new potatoes. 

1 cup diced scallions, green and white part. 
iy2 teaspoons salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. Dash paprika. 

Have the butcher chop the mutton into small pieces; wash, 
being careful that all splinters of bone are removed; put into 
saucepan, cover with 2 quarts of cold water; boil 1 hour; re- 
move 4 cups of the stock to use next day. Add the carrots, 
potatoes and scallions; boil 1 hour, add flour which has been 
mixed in cold water; add seasoning and the green onion, 
cut fine. 

DANDY LAMB STEW 

1 pound neck lamb chops. 

1 quart potatoes. 

2 cups cut carrots, i/^ cup cut onions. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon cut parsley. 

1^ teaspoons salt. Dash paprika. 

The chops are wiped with wet cloth; put in boiler; cover 
with 4 cups of boiling water. Boil slowly 1 hour, add the pota- 
toes, which have been cut into thick slices; the carrots, which 
have been cut in slices, onions and seasoning. Boil slowly for 
40 minutes, add flour, which has been mixed with a little cold 
water. Serve all on large platter; sprinkle with parsley and 
dust with paprika. 

SCALLOPED LAMB 

Cold boiled or roast lamb, cut into thin slices. 

2 cups breadcrumbs. 

2 tablespoons onion juice. 

% teaspoon salt. Dash pepper. 

1 "tablespoon drippings. 

1 cup cold gravy or stock. 

1 cup strained tomatoes or white sauce. 

Brush casserole dish or small agate pan with melted drip- 
pings; cover bottom with breadcrumbs, then a layer of meat, 
another layer of breadcrumbs, meat and breadcrumbs again. 
Mix tomatoes, gravy, stock or water, add onion, salt and pep- 
per; pour over the top. Cover and bake 15 minutes; uncover 
and bake 15 minutes, or until nicely browned. If dry, add more 
water. The more gravy the better the meat dish. 



78 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

LAMB AND VEGETABLES, CASSEROLE 

1 pound neck lamb chops. 4 cups carrots. 
1 cup small onions. 2 cups small potatoes. 
1 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon pepper. 
1 tablespoon flour. 1 tablespoon caramel. 

1 tablespoon cut parsley. 

2 tablespoons drippings. 

Wash, scrape and cut the carrots into i^-inch rounds and put 
onions (not cut) into casserole with the drippings and 1 cup 
water; put in oven 30 minutes, place the chops on top of the car- 
rots and onions. Sprinkle with salt, flour and pepper and add a 
cup of hot water; cover and place in hot oven 1 hour. Add cara- 
mel and sprinkle top with parsley and serve in casserole dish. 
This is very attractive and tasty. The neck chops are very ten- 
der if cooked this way. 



LAMB FRICADELLA 

1 cup cold lamb. 

2 cups any kind of breadcrumbs. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon of salt. 
Da^ of pepper. 

2 tablespoons of onion juice. 

1 tablespoon of chopped parsley. 

Put the meat thru food chopper; add salt, pepper, bread- 
crumbs that have been wet with a little cold water, the well-beaten 
egg, onion juice and parsley; mix well and form into flat oakes. 
Sprinkle with flour. 

Brush bakepan with a little drippings; put in the fricadella 
and place in a hot oven 15 to 18 minutes. After removing frica- 
della from pan, add 1 tablespoon flour wet with a little cold 
water and 1 tablespoon of caramel, seasoning to taste; add enough 
stock or water to make 1 cupful of gravy. 

Mint gelatin with cold sliced lamb is delicious and makes a 
very pleasant change. 

Cut the jelly into cubes or mold in small individual mold, 
place on lettuce leaf with thin slices of boiled lamb. This is a very 
attractive warm-weather dish. Keep in refrigerator until ready 
to use. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 79 

CHEAP CUT WITH VEGETABLES 

1 pound lean meat, i/^ pound dried lima beans. 
1 cup carrot. 1 cup onion. 

1 quart potatoes. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 teaspoons salt. 
1/4 teaspoon paprika. 

Put the meat into iron pot or frypan; add a little water; 
cover and cook slowly 1 hour. Eemove cover and add carrots, 
onion and potatoes ; add 2 cups of water and seasoning. Put the 
meat on top of vegetables and place in hot oven. Baste the meat 
several times. The lima beans are soaked overnight and boiled 
until tender; seasoned with salt and pepper to taste. Put them 
around edge of platter ; thicken the gravy and if not brown, add 
caramel to make it a rich brown. Put meat in center of platter, 
the vegetables and gravy around the meat and the white beans on 
the outer edge. Sprinkle with parsley and paprika. 

One of the best ways to prepare the cheaper cuts of meat is 
in a closed vessel, either a casserole or a Dutch oven. If you 
haven't a casserole, use the Boston bean pot. The Dutch oven is 
the same as the old-fashioned iron boiler with a lid, but not quite 
so deep, and is easily washed. 

VICTORY VEGETABLE DISH 

14 peck potatoes. 2 cups cut onions. 

1 cup cut carrots. % cup cut cabbage core. 

y2 pound round steak. 2 tablespoons beef drippings. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. Caramel. 

Put the drippings into large iron pan or pot, add the cut 
scallions (including the green tops), the carrots cut into thin 
slices and the core from cabbage cut small. Sear lightly, stirring 
constantly, then add the potatoes that have been pared and cut 
into %-inch slices. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, add 14 cup 
water and cover tightly. Cook very slowly, turning occasionally, 
and add a very little water to keep it from burning. It will take 
30 to 35 minutes to cook in this way. 

When vegetables are tender add the beef, which has been put 
thru food chopper, stir carefully until meat is seared (5 min- 
utes) ; lift out vegetables and meat and add 1 cup of water or 
vegetable stock; bring to a boil and add the cornstarch that has 
been mixed with cold water, boil 5 minutes, add the caramel and 
season to taste. Pour around the vegetables and meat, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley or scallion tops. This makes an exception- 
ally good dish and one that is different from the regular old-time 
stew. 



80 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

HOW TO USE THE FOUR CUPS OF STOCK 

To the stock add 2 tablespoons of rice or pearl tapioca ; season 
to taste and boil slowly 45 minutes ; add chopped scallion tops, salt 
and paprika to taste. 

The scallion tops are used instead of onion and parsley. I 
would also suggest buying the carrots as needed. Scallions are 
used instead of onions and only bought as needed, otherwise the 
green tops will be useless. New potatoes are the cheaper just 
now, as there is no waste. Remember, at this time, to boil the 
new potatoes in the skins, no matter how they are to be used. If 
for stewed or brown potatoes, parboil and skin. It is a well- 
known fact that the best part of the potato is under the skin. 

SURPRISE CROQUETTES WITH PEAS 

2 cups cold boiled rice. 1 cup cold boiled ham. 

1 cup thick cream sauce. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 1 raw egg. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped green peppers. 
1 teaspoon salt. Breadcrumbs. 

Put the rice and ham thru food chopper; add the cream sauce, 
pepper and salt. Mix well. Cut the hard-boiled egg in 6 pieces 
the long way. Put the ham-and-rice mixture around the piece 
of egg; roll in flour, then in the raw egg, mixed with 1 tablespoon 
cold milk; dip the croquette in egg, then in breadcrumbs; fry in 
very hot fat. The croquettes are made oblong. Serve with 
green peas around. The cream sauce is made with 1 tablespoon 
butter,. 2 tablespoons flour and 1 cup cold milk, seasoned and 
flavored to taste. 

RICE-AND-NUT CROQUETTES 

1 cup rice. 1 cup peanut butter. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons finely chopped parsley. 

1/4 cup tomato catsup. A little pepper. 

1 egg and breadcrumbs. 

Wash the rice and put on to boil with 2 quarts boiling water ; 
boil 25 minutes, drain, do not blanch; when cool enough to handle, 
put thru food chopper; add the peanut butter while the rice is 
hot; add salt, pepper, nutmeg and parsley; mix well, so the rice 
and peanut butter are well blended. Take 1 tablespoonful, roll 
into small ball in floured hands; either shape in cones or oblong; 
set aside until cold, then dip in egg and breadcrumbs; fry in hot 
drippings or cooking oil. 

For the egg dip, use 14 cup milk, 2 teaspoons cornstarch and 
1 well-beaten egg. The cornstarch and milk make the egg go 
further. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 81 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER 

3 cups diced potatoes. 1 cup diced carrots. 
V2 cup cut onions. % cup cut celery. 
3 cups cut cabbage. 2 cups corn. 
Cut beans or peas. 2 cups tomatoes. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

2 tablespoons cut green pepper (if on hand) . 
1/2 cup flour for thickening. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 

2 cups milk. 

All the vegetables are put into boiler and covered with boil- 
ing water; boil slowly until tender, then add seasoning and 
flour, which has been mixed with cold water until smooth ; add 
butter substitute and hot milk. Sprinkle with parsley and 
paprika. The potatoes will have about disappeared by the time 
the cabbage is tender; left-over corn, beans, tomatoes or peas 
can be used instead of fresh vegetables. Be sure to boil in 
uncovered vessel. 

EGGPLANT FRITTERS 

1 small eggplant. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. Pepper to taste. 

% cup milk. 1 egg. 

Wash, pare and grate the eggplant, or put thru food chopper. 
There should be 2% to 3 cupf uls ; add milk and well-beaten egg, 
salt and pepper; sift in the flour and baking powder; mix well and 
fry on hot greased griddle. Shape with spoon like an oyster. This 
makes a very pleasant change for the use of eggplant. 

VEGETABLE PLATTER MEAL 

1 quart small potatoes. 

2 cups small or cut onions. 2 cups cut carrots. 

1 quart string beans. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 

2 tablespoons flour or cornstarch. 

2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

Salt and pepper. 1 cup white sauce. 

Boil potatoes, onions and cut carrots together in very little 
water; when tender, drain and cover with sauce made from vege- 
table stock. Put in center of chop plate, and the string beans, 
which have been prepared as usual, around the mixed vegetables. 
Sprinkle with cheese, parsley and paprika. 

This makes a very attractive dish, and the cheese adds food 
value and flavor. If one does not care for cheese, it can be omitted. 



82 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



EGG DISHES 



OMELET WITH CHICKEN LIVER 

4 eggs. 4 tablespoons cold water. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon cut parsley. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

Liver from 1 chicken. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

Beat the eggs and water together until well mixed. Put half 
the drippings in pan ; when hot, pour in the eggs and put over slow 
fire. Shake pan all the time it is cooking. With spatula or fork 
raise the edges to let the soft part run under, and when done put 
in the sauted liver, fold and serve on hot platter; garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

To saute the liver, cut the raw liver in very small pieces; put 
half the drippings into small f rypan ; add the liver and onion, salt 
and a dash pepper ; put over slow fire and stir until finished. Add 
1 tablespoon of water to make a little gravy. 



ECONOMY EGGS 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 
6 thin, square slices toast. 
2 cups milk. 

2 rounded tablespoons butter. 
. 2 tablespoons flour. 
1 tablespoon grated onion. 
1 teaspoon salt and a little pepper. 

Chop the whites of eggs very fine and add to half of the cream 
sauce; rub 5 yolks thru strainer and add to other half of cream 
sauce; place toast on platter; pile the whites with sauce around 
the toast; grate the sixth yolk over all. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 83 

EGGS AURORA WITH POTATOES 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon finely cut onion. 

1 cup milk. 2 cups mashed potatoes. 

1 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon white pepper. 

14 teaspoon paprika. 

Put the butter into saucepan with the onion ; fry slowly, so 
as not to brown, stirring constantly. When the onion is tender, 
add the flour, mix well, and add the cold milk slowly, stirring 
until it thickens; then add the salt and pepper. Cut the hard- 
boiled eggs in half, remove the yolks and press thru fine strainer; 
add to the sauce ; bring to boiling point. Spread the mashed pota- 
toes on a platter, put the whites of eggs over top, round side up; 
cover with the sauce and dust with paprika around the edge. 
Garnish with parsley. 

CREAMED EGGS 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

14. teaspoon pepper. ^ teaspoon paprika. 

Put the butter substitute into saucepan; melt; add onion 
and flour; mix well and add the cold milk slowly; stir until smooth 
and creamy ; then add the salt, pepper and boil 5 minutes. Chop 
the eggs, yolks and whites together, and add to the cream sauce. 
Serve on toast or in hollow rolls, sprinkle with paprika and garnish 
with chopped parsley. 



BAKED EGGS IN CREAM SAUCE 

2 cups cream sauce. 4 eggs. 

1/2 cup breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon grated cheese. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley or chives. 

The cream sauce is made as usual, and seasoned and flavored 
to taste. Pour it into glass or earthen bakedish or pie plate. The 
eggs are carefully opened and put into the sauce. Sprinkle with 
breadcrumbs and the cheese, place in hot oven 6 to 8 minutes; 
sprinkle with parsley and serve from dish in which they are baked. 



84 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

TO SERVE HARD-BOILED EGGS 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 tablespoons butter or oleomargarine, 
2 tablespoons flour. 1% cups milk. 
2 tablespoons chopped green peppers. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon grated onion. 
% teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Put butter, onion and pepper in saucepan ; fry a few moments 
(but do not brown) ; add the flour; mix well, then add the cold 
milk; boil 3 minutes; cut the eggs in half, remove the yolks, chop 
and add to the sauce. Cut a thin slice from the end of each half 
of the whites so they will set on a piece of toast, then pour the 
thick yellow sauce in and over the white. Dust with paprika 
and garnish with parsley. 



POACHED EGGS ON FRIED TOMATO 

3 large, firm tomatoes. 

6 eggs. 6 slices toasted bread. 

3 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons oil or drippings. 

Wash and cut thin slices from both ends of tomatoes, cut 
in half, sprinkle with salt, pepper, sugar and dip in flour. Put 
oil or drippings in iron or heavy pan, and when hot put toma- 
toes and fry a nice brown on both sides. The bread is cut in 
i/^-inch slices, then cut round with cookie cutter or 1-pound 
baking powder can ; toast a nice brown and put on hot platter, 
and on each round of bread place a slice of tomato (remove the 
tomato from pan with cake-turner, so it will not break) and on 
each tomato put a poached egg. Sprinkle egg with salt, dust 
with paprika and garnish with parsley and watercress. 

The toast is made and eggs poached as usual while the 
tomatoes are frying. 

SHIRRED EGGS WITH BREADCRUMBS 

Brush custard cup with bacon drippings; put in 1 table- 
spoon breadcrumbs, 1 tablespoon milk, a pinch of salt ; break 1 
egg carefully, not to break yolk; sprinkle with breadcrumbs 
and put a very small piece of butter on top ; place in hot oven 5 
minutes, or set in a pan of water; cover and place on hot stove; 
steam until done to your liking. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 85 

SCRAMBLED EGGS AND BACON 

One-quarter pound sliced bacon, put into frypan and fry 
until crisp, turning constantly, and remove the drippings 
several times. To the pan add 4 eggs and scramble. Put in 
center of platter and gatnish with the bacon and sprigs 
of parsley. 

CORAL EGGS 

1 cup strained tomatoes. 

4 eggs. 14 pound bacon. 

4 tablespoons grated American cheese. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Fry bacon until crisp and brown, then remove from pan 
and pour the tomatoes into the drippings, heat thru. Beat 
the eggs, season with salt and pepper and pour into the pan 
with the tomatoes. As soon as it begins to set, stir with fork the 
same as scrambled eggs. 

Toast 4 slices of bread until light brown and dip into hot 
salted water. Pour the eggs and tomatoes over the toast ; gar- 
nish with bacon and sprinkle with cheese and chopped parsley. 
Serve at once. 

PRINCESS EGGS 

4 eggs. ^ cup finely chopped ham. 

1 teaspoon olive oil or melted butter. 

34 teaspoon salt. Dash paprika. 

Brush 4 ramekins or custard cups with oil or butter, put 1 
tablespoon of ham in each cup and 1 egg on top of ham; dust with 
salt; place cup in pan of hot water, put in oven 6 to 8 minutes, or, 
if oven is not hot, put pan on top of stove, cover and steam 8 to 
10 minutes; dust with paprika and serve in ramekins or cups. 

CREAMED EGGS WITH POTATOES 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

y^ teaspoon pepper, i/^ teaspoon paprika. 

1 quart mashed potatoes. 

Put the butter substitute into saucepan, melt, add onion, 
flour, mix well and add the cold milk slowly, stir until smooth and 
creamy; then add the salt, pepper and boil 5 minutes. Chop the 
eggs (yolks and whites together) and add to the cream sauce. 
Serve on the potatoes, which have been boiled and put thru press 
or mash thru strainer on to hot platter. 

Sprinkle with salt. One yolk can be reserved and grated over 
top. Sprinkle all with parsley. 



86 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



CHEESE RECEIPTS 



CHEESE LOAF, TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups breadcrumbs. 1 cup cold milk. 
1 cup grated sharp American cheese. 

3 eggs. 1 level teaspoon salt. 
% teaspoon pepper. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 tablespoons chopped green peppers. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

Cover crumbs with milk 20 minutes; add cheese seasoning 
and flavoring. Separate the eggs, add the yolks and beat 5 min- 
utes, or until smooth and thick. Beat the whites of eggs until dry 
and fold into the mixture (do not beat after the whites have 
been added). Brush casserole or bakedish with butter, put in 
mixture; put in moderate oven and bake 35 to 40 minutes, or until 
firm. Try by putting silver knife in center. If it comes out dry 
the loaf is done. Serve at once in dish in which loaf is baked. 

The sauce is made as follows: 

2 cups tomatoes, i^ cup finely cut onion. 
% cup grated or chopped carrot. 

1^ cup green peppers. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute or oil. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the onion, carrot, peppers and butter substitute or oil 
into frying pan and fry until tender. Add tomato and salt; cook 
5 minutes; mash tliru strainer, return to fire, add cornstarch, 
which has been mixed with a little water, and boil 5 minutes. 



CHEESE TOAST 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup grated cheese. i/4 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. Dash paprika. 

Put the butter substitute into saucepan ; when melted add tho 
flour; mix well and add the cold milk slowly, stirring until smooth 
and creamy; add the grated American cheese, salt and pepper 
and paprika; mix well. You can add grated onion, if desired. 
Pour over rounds of toast, being careful that it does not become 
stringy. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 87 

CHEESE BISCUIT FOR LUNCHEON 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup grated American cheese. 

% cup milk. y2 teaspoon paprika. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add cheese 
and mix very lightly; add milk; roll out % inch thick; cut with 
small cutter; brush top with milk and sprinkle with a little cheese 
and dust with paprika. Put in hot oven and bake 15 to 20 minutes. 
This makes 16 biscuits. 



VEGETABLES 



BAKED TOMATOES WITH SAUCE 

6 large, firm, even-sized tomatoes. 

3 cups breadcrumbs or cold boiled rice. 

1 cup grated strong American cheese. 

1 tablespoon melted butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon finely cut parsley or green pepper. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper. 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons cornmeal. 

Wash and cut a slice from stem end of tomatoes and remove 
center. Fill with mixture made as follows : 

The crumbs or rice are mixed with cheese and seasoning; 
fill into tomatoes; round the top; brush with well-beaten egg 
and sprinkle with cornmeal ; put on pieplate or shallow bake- 
dish; bake 30 minutes in hot oven. Serve in dish in which they 
are baked. 

The center of tomato is made into tomato sauce, thickened, 
seasoned and flavored to taste, and served with the tomatoes. 



88 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BAKED STUFFED EGGPLANT 

1 eggplant. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1/^ teaspoon pepper. A dash paprika. 

1 tablespoon melted butter substitute. 

Wash and pare the eggplant, cut in halves, remove center, 
leaving shell i^ inch thick. Put the shell in cold water at once, 
so it will not discolor. Then put shell and the center, cut in 
small pieces, into saucepan, cover with boiling water and boil 
10 minutes. Mash the small pieces. 

Put the drippings into frying pan ; add the onion, mashed 
eggplant and dry breadcrumbs, stirring so it will fry dry. Add 
salt, pepper, parsley, paprika and well-beaten egg. Mix well 
and remove from fire. Fill halves with mixture; dust with 
breadcrumbs and melted butter substitute; put into moderate 
oven and bake 30 minutes. Serve with white sauce. 



ESCALLOPED EGGPLANT 

1 medium-sized eggplant. 

2 tablespoons butter, oleomargarine or bacon drippings. 
1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. 1^ cup breadcrumbs. 

Pare and cut the eggplant into dice, put in saucepan, cover 
with boiling water and boil 20 minutes; drain. Brush bakedish 
with drippings, pour in the drained eggplant and cover with 
sauce. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and place in moderate oven 
to bake 45 minutes. 

For the sauce put 1 tablespoon of butter and the onions into 
small pan; when melted add flour and stir until well mixed^ 
then add cold milk slowly and boil 5 minutes. 

Put the other tablespoon of butter into small f rypan ; when 
melted add the crumbs; mix well, but do not brown. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 89 

CREAMED CARROTS 

2 bunches or 1 quart carrots. 

1 tablespoon chopped or scraped onion. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley. 

Dash pepper and paprika. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the carrots on in enough boiling water to cover and 
boil until tender. 

Put the butter substitute and onion into saucepan and cook 
1 minute; add the flour and mix well; then slowly add 1 cup 
of stock in which the carrots were cooked, stirring until smooth 
and creamy; add the salt, paprika and pepper to the carrots; 
sprinkle with parsley. 



CREAMED CUCUMBERS 

Pare cucumbers and cut into quarters long way; remove 
part of the seeds. Put cucumbers into a pan with a little milk, 
seasoning to taste, adding a little butter substitute and corn- 
starch thickening. 



PANNED SWEET POTATOES 

1 quart sweet potatoes. 

1 tablespoon butter or substitute. 

% teaspoon salt. % teaspoon white pepper. 

Wash and boil the potatoes and skin ; cut into slices % inch 
thick; brush bakedish with a little butter or oleomargarine; lay 
the sweet potatoes in; dust each layer with salt, pepper and 
sugar and a little butter or oleomargarine; there should be 
about 3 layers ; add 2 tablespoons water and bake 20 minutes. 



CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash % peck small sweet potatoes, put on with boiling 
water and boil 20 minutes. Drain and skin. Brush pan Vvith 
drippings, place the sweet potatoes on, dust with 1 teaspoon 
salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1/2 cup brown sugar and put 2 table- 
spoons butter substitute in small pieces over top. Put In 
moderate oven 15 minutes or until nicely glazed and brown. 



90 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CABBAGE WITH WHITE SAUCE 

Cut the cabbage into quarters; lay in cold water 30 min- 
utes; drain and cover with boiling water; boil 45 minutes 
without a cover; lift the quarters and lay on shallow dish, cut 
side up ; cover with sauce : 

1 tablespoon butter substitute or drippings. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup cold milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

Put butter in saucepan over fire; melt and add the flour; 
mix well ; then add the cold milk slowly, stirring until smooth 
and creamy; add salt and pepper; boil 2 minutes. Flavor with 
scraped onion or nutmeg. 

BAKED NEW CABBAGE 

1 head new cabbage. 

1 tablespoon green pepper. 

3 tablespoons grated American cheese. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

Vs teaspoon white pepper. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

Remove only the poor outer leaves from a head of new cab- 
bage, cut into quarters, cover with cold water for 30 minutes ; 
drain, put on with plenty of boiling water and boil 25 to 30 
minutes in uncovered vessel. 

Drain and lay the quarters, cut side up, in earthen dish; 
sprinkle with 1 teaspoon salt and pour the sauce over top; 
sprinkle with chopped green pepper and the grated cheese. Put 
into hot oven 10 minutes; serve in dish in which baked. 

SWISS CHARD 

1 quart of greens, after boiling. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

1 tablespoon bacon drippings or butter. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

Strip the greens from the thick midrib; steam or boil the 
same as spinach or beet tops. The thick midrib is cut into half- 
inch pieces (the same as celery for stewing). Cover with boil- 
ing water and boil for from 35 to 40 minutes or until tender. 
Drain and cover with cream sauce, which is made as usual. 

The greens are drained, chopped and seasoned with salt, 
pepper, drippings or butter substitute. Put in center of a dish 
and place the creamed midribs around. This makes a very 
attractive dish. To make 1 quart of greens after boiling, 3 
quarts of the uncooked greens will be needed. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 91 

BAKED SQUASH 

Wash, pare and remove seeds from 2 medium-sized squash ; 
cut into thin slices; brush casserole dish with drippings or 
butter substitute, then put in squash, a little salt, pepper and 
enough water to cover bottom of dish, probably a half cupful, 
according to size of dish. Bake in slow oven until tender ; mix 
with fork or egg whip before serving. 

PEPPER SAUCE 

1 head cabbage. 2 peppers. 

2 teaspoons mustard seed. 

1 teaspoon whole cloves. 1 teaspoon whole allspice. 

1 teaspoon salt. ^^ cup cider vinegar. 

Cut or chop the cabbage fine; put into cold water for 30 
minutes. Wash and cut the peppers in half; remove all seeds 
and white fiber from the inside ; chop fine. Drain cabbage ; add 
peppers and all other ingredients; mix well. If put in glass 
jar or crock and set in cold place this will keep a week. 

BUTTERED BEETS 

Wash the beets, put on with boiling water to cover and boil 
until tender; drain and run cold water thru the beets and skin 
at once ; cut into cubes. To 2 cups of the beets add ^ cup water, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter and i/^ teaspoon white pep- 
per. Serve hot. 

CREAMED BEET TOPS 

Cut the tops of beets off about 1 inch from beet; wash both, 
put the beets in saucepan, cover, with boiling water. The tops 
are put in strainer on top of beets; cover and boil until tender. 
In that way the beets will be ready for evening, 1 cooking doing 
both tops and beets. When tender remove, strain, press dry, 
season to taste and serve with white sauce, lemon juice or vine- 
gar. The tops are just as good as spinach. 

PICKLED BEETS 

Boil the beets as usual, skin and cut into cubes or slice ; then 
add y2 cup vinegar, % cup water, 1 teaspoon salt, dash 
white pepper, 1 tablespoon sugar and 1 teaspoon of whole mixed 
spices, if desired. 

NEW POTATOES 

Wash a quart of new potatoes under running water; put on 
in boiling water to cover; boil 30 minutes or until tender. 
Drain and skin at once ; return to saucepan and sprinkle with 1 
teaspoon of salt. Shake the pan and return to back part of stove 
or warming shelf 5 minutes. Prepared in this way there is no 
waste and the potato is mealy and attractive. 



92 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE SAUCE 

1 quart diced or small potatoes. 

1 tablespoon butter or oleomargarine. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper. 

% cup grated cheese. 

Put the diced potatoes on and boil until tender, drain, add 
the sauce, put into tureen and sprinkle with parsley. 

Sauce. — Put the butter into saucepan with the onion, 
add the flour and mix well; then add the cold milk slowly, 
stirring until smooth and creamy; add the salt and pepper. 



CREAMED POTATOES 

1 quart potatoes. 

1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon oleomargarine. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon onion juice. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper. 

Dash paprika. 

Wash, pare and dice the potatoes, put on with boiling water 
and boil until tender; drain and add the cream saute. Sprinkle 
with 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

Sauce. — Put the oleomargarine into saucepan, melt, add 
the flour and mix well ; then add cold milk slowly, stirring until 
smooth and creamy; add the salt, pepper and paprika; boil 
2 minutes. 



HASH BROWNED POTATOES 

1 quart potatoes. 1 tablespoon drippings. 
1 tablespoon milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 tablespoon cut parsley. 

Cold potatoes can be chopped fine or freshly boiled can be 
skinned and chopped fine. Put the drippings in pan; add pota- 
toes; keep turning until heated thru; add seasoning and milk; 
stir constantly until light brown. If oven is hot, put the pota- 
toes in and bake a light brown. Sprinkle with parsley. 

The potatoes are boiled and skinned the day before. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 93 

HOW TO BOIL CORN 

Husk the ears, remove the silk with a vegetable brush, so it 
will all come off. Have the water boiling and boil corn rapidly 
for 5 minutes. Kemove from water at once and place on plate 
which has been covered with a napkin, and bring the ends up so 
the corn will be covered. Do not add salt and do not let the ears 
stand in the water. Serve at once. 

CORN CHOWDER 

2 cups fresh grated corn. 

2 cups diced potatoes. 

2 cups rice or vegetable stock. 

2 cups milk. 

1 tablespoon oleomargarine or butter. 

3 tablespoons flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. Paprika. 

Skin and dice the parboiled potatoes; put on in top of dou- 
ble boiler with rice stock and seasoning, boil until very tender ; 
add the milk and corn, put the boiler over water and boil 20 
minutes ; add flour, which has been mixed with cold water, and 
boil 15 minutes; add butter and sprinkle with paprika. 

ESCALLOPED CORN 

2 cups grated fresh corn. 
y2 cup fresh breadcrumbs. 
^ cup milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. A little pepper. 

legg. 

Mix com with milk, seasoning and well-beaten egg. Brush 
earthen bakedish with butter. Pour in mixture and cover top 
with buttered crumbs. Bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. 

To butter crumbs, put butter on pietin. When melted, add 
the crumbs and shake until the crumbs have all been touched 
with butter. The melted butter makes the crumbs brown nicely. 

SCRAMBLED CORN AND EGGS 

1 cup grated fresh com. 

3 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon finely cut green pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter, drippings or oil. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Put the corn, peppers and half the milk on in saucepan 
and cook 5 minutes. Beat the eggs and half cup of milk until 
light; add to corn and cook slowly, stirring constantly until set. 
Add butter and salt ; serve on thin slices of toast. Pepper can 
be omitted and parsley or celery tops used instead. 



94 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FRESH CORN CROQUETTES 

2 cups grated fresh corn. 

2 cups mashed potatoes. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 teaspoon salt. A little pepper. 

% teaspoon grated onion or a little nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

1 egg. Breadcrumbs. 

Boil the potatoes with the skins; when tender, skin and put 
thru ricer or mash thru strainer; add the grated corn, seasoning 
and flavoring while hot. Form into 8 cones or oblong shapes. 
Dip in egg, which has been mixed with 1 tablespoon of milk; 
then in breadcrumbs; fry in deep, hot fat. 

CREAMED STRING BEANS 

String 1 quart of beans, cut into %-inch pieces and set aside 
in cold water 30 minutes; drain and cover with boiling water; 
add 1 tablespoon cut onion for flavor and boil 30 minutes or 
until tender. Do not cover the beans while cooking. Drain and 
cover with the cream sauce made with bacon drippings. The 
bacon drippings are not only cheaper than butter, but flavor 
the beans much better. 

Sauce : 

1 tablespoon bacon drippings. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon scraped onion. 

1 cup cold milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash white pepper. 

Put the bacon drippings into pan; add onion and flour; mix 
well, then add the cold milk slowly; boil 3 minutes; add salt 
and pepper. If you have no bacon drippings on hand, fry 2 or 3 
thin pieces of bacon and use the bacon to garnish the beans. 

BAKED STUFFED PEPPERS 

6 peppers. 

2 cups cold boiled rice. 

% cup finely chopped onions. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Remove stem end of the peppers and take out all the seeds 
and white; fill with the mixture, which is made as follows: 

Put the drippings and onion into pan and cook a few 
minutes; add rice, seasoning, the top of peppers chopped fine 
and flavoring; stir until heated thru; fill the peppers and place 
in a deep dish with 2 tablespoons of water; bake 40 minutes. 

Breadcrumbs may be used instead of rice; then a little 
water must be added. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 95 



SALADS AND DRESSINGS 



CABBAGE AND PEPPER SALAD 

4 cups shredded lettuce. 

3 cups finely shaved cabbage. 

1 cup chopped green peppers (3 medium size). 

1 teaspoon salt. 

34 teaspoon paprika. 

1 tablespoon celery seed. 
^2 cup salad dressing. 

Cover salad dish with lettuce. Mix cabbage, seasoning and 
flavoring and half the dressing together in small bowl and press 
it down, then turn out into the center of shredded lettuce. The 
remainder of the dressing is put on top and sprinkled with 
paprika. 

RADISH SALAD 

2 cups finely sliced radishes. 

1 cup finely sliced scallions. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 
14 cup French dressing. 

Mix radishes and scallions together, place on lettuce, cover 
wi'th dressing. Be sure to serve it cold. 

TOMATO AND SCALLION SALAD 

4 small tomatoes. 
1^ cup cut scallions. 

1 cup shredded lettuce. 
3/^ cup French dressing. 

Wash and skin tomatoes, cut in half and lay in shallow 
bowl, which has been covered with shredded lettuce; cover the 
tomato with the scallion and pour over the French dressing. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

1/4 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon pepper. 

3 tablespoons olive oil. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

Put all the ingredients in a clean bottle and shake well. 
This dressing may be used with lettuce, or it may be used to 
season other salads before putting on a thicker dressing. . 



96 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHERRY SALAD 

1 cup pitted cherries. 

1 cup diced red gelatin. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 

3 tablespoons olive oil. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Line individual salad plates with crisp, cold lettuce; put a 
tablespoon of cherries in center; put gelatin, cut in half-inch 
dice, around the cherries. If you have a French potato cutter, 
use it to make the red gelatin balls. Serve with French dressing 
made with oil and lemon juice and a pinch of salt. The gelatin 
can be any flavor. 

CHERRY SALAD, NO. 2 

Cherry salad is very nice when you use oxheart and black 
Spanish cherries. 

1 cup oxheart cherries. 

1 cup black Spanish cherries. 

14 cup marshmallows or blanched almonds. 

French dressing. Lettuce leaves. 

Wash and stew the cherries. With a small, pointed knife 
remove the stones and insert a small piece of marshmallow or 
blanched almond. Put into ice-cold place until ready to serve. 
Line salad bowl with lettuce leaves, lay the cherries in, first the 
black, then the oxheart, and serve with French dressing. 
Serving the cherries prepared in this way with whipped cream 
makes a very nice dessert. 

STRING BEAN SALAD WITH BACON 

1 quart string beans. 

% cup finely cut bacon or 3 tablespoons drippings. 

14 cup finely cut onion. 

14 cup vinegar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Cut the beans in half, split across the bean; put in cold 
water 15 minutes; drain, cover with bailing water and boil 30 
minutes or until teaider in uncovered vessel. Drain and cover 
with dressing made as follows : 

Put finely diced bacon in f rypan with onion and fry, keep- 
ing pan in motion constantly. When fried, but not brown, add 
vinegar and salt. Bring to a boil and pour over bfeans. DXist 
with paprika and sprinkle with parsley. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 97 

ASPARAGUS TIP SALAD 

Tips are cut off 3 inches from top, tied with tape and boiled 
in salted water until tender; lift from stock and when cold 
serve on shredded lettuce with French dressing, mayonnaise or 
salad dressing of choice. The remainder of asparagus is pre- 
pared for the ramekins and the trimmings used for soups 
and sauces. 

SHRIMP SALAD WITH TOMATOES 

1 can shrimp. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 

14 cup mayonnaise or salad dressing. 

2 tomatoes. 1 pickle. 

Put the shrimp into cold water 30 minutes; drain, remo/e 
the thin shell and break the shrimp into small pieces; cut 2 
tomatoes in half, remove center and put the shrimp in them. 
Place on shredded lettuce, and cover with dressing. Dust top 
with paprika, garnish with thin slices of pickle. 

SHRIMP SALAD 

1 can shrimp. 

2 tablespoons finely cut green peppers. 
2 tablespoons finely cut raw carrot. 
V2 cup finely cut cabbage. 

Lettuce. 1 cup lime gelatin. 

Dressing of choice. 

Prepare the shrimp as usual; break into small pieces and 
mix with vegetables; season with salt and paprika to taste. 
Line shallow bowl with lettuce ; put salad in center and garnish 
with cubes of lime gelatin made as usual. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING 

1 cup sour milk or cream. 

14 cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon dry mustard. 

y2 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon pepper. 

1 egg. 

Mix the flour, mustard, sugar, salt and pepper with the 
vinegar until smooth. Put in top of double boiler or in small 
saucepan. Place over fire and stir until thick; add cream and 
well-beaten egg and stir until it comes to a boil. Remove from 
fire at once. If milk is used instead of cream, 1 tablespoon of oil 
or butter is added. This makes a very good cabbage or lettuce 
and tomato dressing. 



98 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



FRUITS DESSERTS 



HUCKLEBERRY FLOAT 

6 milk biscuits. 2 cups huckleberries. 
y2 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons cornstarch. 
Pinch salt. 

Put the berries on with 1% cups of water and cook slowly 
10 minutes; add sugar, salt and cornstarch, which has been 
mixed with a little cold water until smooth. Break the biscuits 
in half and place in shallow bowl. Pour the berries around. 
Dust the tops of biscuits with sugar and serve cold. 

Milk biscuits are made, as usual, with 1 cup of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder and 1 teaspoon shortening. 



PEACH MERINGUE 

2 eups crushed fresh peaches, 
lineup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Line pietin with good piecrust; bake same as lemon 
meringue and fill with peach recipe made as follows : 

Crush the peaches or mash thru colander; put on to boil; 
when it reaches the boiling point, add the Well-beaten egg yolks 
slowly and remove from fire at once. When cooled pour into 
baked shell. Beat the whites of eggs until dry; add 2 tablespoons 
of granulated sugar and beat a moment; then pour over the 
peaches. Rough with fork and dust liberally with pulverized 
sugar. Place in cool oven to dry and garnish with a few thin 
slices of fresh peaches just before serving. 



RICE WITH RED RASPBERRIES 

y2 cup rice. 1 quart milk. 

y^^ cup sugar, i/^ teaspoon salt. 

Pint Dox of red raspberries. 

Wash the rice, put in top of double boiler with milk; boil 
slowly until thick; add salt and sugar. 

Put in bowl or custard cups and when cold turn out on deep 
plate or in saucedishes and put the raspberries around. Serve 
with milk and sugar. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 99 

FRUITS SERVED IN SPONGE CAKE 

Bake sponge cake in round pudding pan, in the center of 
which is put a cup or very small pudding pan. This is 
done so there will be a large opening in center. Rasp- 
berries, blackberries or sliced peaches can be used. Sugar the 
fruit and fill in cavity. Serve with sweetened fruit juice or 
whipped cream. If peaches are used, garnish with 4 halves of 
peaches, stone side up, in which put a teaspoon of sweetened 
whipped cream. 

CORNSTARCH CUP, PEACH SAUCE 

2 cups milk. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

3 tablespoons cornstarch. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

1 cup peaches. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Put the milk on to boil in top of double boiler; when it 
comes to a boil, add the cornstarch, which has been mixed with 
a little cold milk; boil 15 minutes; add the sugar, salt and any 
flavoring you like. Brush 4 cups with butter and pour in the 
cornstarch custard. Set aside to get very cold; turn out on 
saucedishes and cover with the crushed and sweetened peaches. 

SURPRISE PEACHES 

4 mellow peaches. 4 marshmallows. 

2 whites of eggs. 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar. 

Pare the peaches, remove stone and put marshmallow in 
place of stone (if marshmallow is hard, press it into shape and 
dip in milk). Put the halves of peaches together with a wooden 
toothpick and cut off the end, so it will not show. Put peach in 
saucedish, cover with meringue, dust liberally with pulverized 
sugar; place in very moderate oven until dry, like a glace. This 
makes a very attractive dish. Beat the whites of eggs on platter 
until dry, then add the granulated sugar, only beating until 
mixed. 

BANANAS WITH RASPBERRIES 

2 cups red raspberries. 1 cup currants. 
4 or 5 bananas (3 cups), sliced. 
1 cup sugar. % cup water. 

Mash the currants and raspberries; add the sugar and 
water, which has been boiled 5 minutes; mash thru strainer; 
pour over thinly sliced ripe bananas. 



100 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FARINA WITH STRAWBERRIES 

Cook double the quantity of farina for breakfast ; take what 
is left and put into 4 custard cups and set in the icebox. Turn 
the farina molds into saucedishes and serve with crushed straw- 
berries. 1 cupful strawberries is sufficient for 4 dishes. 

PEACH TAPIOCA 

2 tablespoons granulated tapioca. 

2 cups milk. 2 peaches. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

Pinch salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Put the milk in top of double boiler ; when boiling, add the 
well-washed tapioca, salt and sugar; boil 20 minutes. Halve and 
pare peaches; put into shallow dish, stone side up; put a little 
sugar in each hollow and pour over the tapioca. This must be 
ice cold. You can serve in individual dishes, thereby saving 
serving and washing extra dishes. This amount makes 4 
large helpings. 

RICE CONES WITH PEACHES 

^ cup rice. 2 peaches. 

2 tablespoons sugar, 

% teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Wash the rice thru several waters, put in top of double 
boiler with 3 cups of boiling water and the salt; cover and boil 
slowly 45 minutes, or until the water has boiled away and rice is 
tender. Brush cone-shaped ice cream dipper with melted but- 
ter, partly fill with the hot rice. Take quarter of pared peach, 
which has been dipped in granulated sugar, place in center of 
form, fill with ricej let stand 2 or 3 minutes; remove from mold 
into shallow glass dish or into saucedishes. Take the other 
peach, crush and add the balance of the sugar, and pour around 
the rice cone; if you do not have an ice cream dipper, use cus- 
tard cup. This amount makes 4 large helpings and can be 
served with milk or cream. 

PEACH TOAST 

1 cup peaches. ^/^ cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

4 squares of toasted bread, cut in 3-cornered pieces. 

Put the peaches on in i^^ cup of water, stew and mash fine ; 
add sugar and a few grains of salt; boil 10 minutes. Wet corn- 
starch with cold water and add to peaches. Spread hot toast on 
plate and cover with the cold peaches. A good dish for 
the children. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 101 

PEACH ROLY-POLY 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

^ teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon shortening. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

y2 cup milk. 2 cups peaches. ^/^ cup sugar. 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add the 
shortening and rub in lightly; add milk to hold together; place 
on floured board and roll out 14 inch thick. Wash, pare and cut 
the peaches, put on the dough, pour over half the sugar and roll 
same as a jelly roll. Brush bakedish with butter substitute, 
put in roll, pour over the remainder of sugar, dot with the re- 
mainder of the butter substitute and pour over the rest of the 
milk; cover and bake 20 minutes; uncover and bake 20 minutes, 
or until a nice brown. 

RICE A LA CONDE 

% cup rice. 6 soft peaches. 

1^ cup sugar. 1 egg. 1 tablespoon salt. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

^ teaspoon melted butter substitute. 

Wash and boil the rice as usual ; brush deep pie plate with 
melted butter substitute ; when rice is cold, add the salt, nutmeg 
and the egg, which has been beaten with the milk, and half the 
sugar. Mix all well together; spread on pie plate. Wash, pare 
and halve the peaches; press in rice, stone side up; cover with 
the remainder of sugar and bake in moderate oven 25 minutes. 
Sauce can be served if desired. 



FRUIT COMPOTE 

Quart lemon water ice. 

1 ripe banana, i/i cup orange juice. 

2 tablespoons crushed berries or preserves. 
1 peach. 1^ cup plum pulp. 

14 cup sugar syrup. 

Skin and slice the banana ; cover with orange juice ; peel the 
peach and cut into very thin slices ; mash 3 very ripe plums thru 
coarse strainer. The crushed berries or preserves are mixed 
with the sugar syrup until smooth; then mix fruit and syrup 
together. Put in cold place until ready to use. How to sen^e : 
Put a large tablespoon of water ice into ice cream or parfait 
glass, then put 2 tablespoons of the fruit mixture over the top. 
Fresh raspberries or strawberries are best, but one does not 
have them at all times. 



102 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

GLAZED PEACHES 

1 quart hard cling-stone peaches. 

1 cup syrup. 

Wash, scald and skin the peaches; do not halve; cover with 
water, syrup and a pinch of salt; boil slowly until tender, but 
not broken. Remove with skimmer, put on pie plate and place 
in hot oven until quite dry. Serve cold. 

The syrup is thickened with a little cornstarch, and is used 
with cold-boiled rice for dessert. 

PEACHES WITH MARSHMALLOW 

3 cups crushed peaches. 

4 halves of peaches. 

y2 cup marshmallow or marshmallow whip. 

1^ cup sugar. 

Wash, pare and crush about 6 peaches, enough to make 3 
cups; add sugar, put in glass bowl and lay the 4 halves of 
peaches, which have been pared, stone side up, on top of crushed 
peaches; sprinkle the halves with a little sugar; cut the marsh- 
mallow in small pieces with scissors and sprinkle over top ; have 
all ice cold. 



PUDDINGS 



HUCKLEBERRY TOAST 

2 cups huckleberries. 

6 small slices toasted bread. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. % teaspoon salt. 

Wash the berries, add % cup boiling water and boil slowly 
15 minutes; mast with back of spoon; add sugar and salt. Mix 
cornstarch with a little cold water and add to berries; boil 3 min- 
utes. Lay toast on platter and pour the berries over. This is 
served cold and makes a very good dessert. 

GRAPE PUDDING 

1% cups loose grapes. 1-3 cup sugar. 
A few grains of salt. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 cup water. 

Wash the grapes, put into small saucepan; boil until the 
seeds s|p^arate from the pulp and skins have left them. Mash 
thru small wire strainer. All the skin must mash thru ; then add 
sugar and water, bring to boil and add the cornstarch, which has 
been mixed with a little cold water; boil 10 minutes; pour into 4 
ice cream glasses. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 103 

APPLE SNOW 

4 apples or 2 cups apple sauee. 
2 eggs. 14 cup sugar. 

Wash and core the apples, put on in saucepan with 4 table- 
spoons hot water, cover and bring to boiling point; remove the 
cover and boil until tender; mash thru strainer. Have the whites 
of eggs beaten dry; add the cold strained apples and beat until 
like snow. Fill into glass dish ; garnish with little pieces of tart 
red jelly. Serve with custard. 

Custard — Put 1 cup milk on to boil ; beat the yolks of 2 eggs, 
2 tablespoons sugar, a pinch of salt and a little grated nutmeg 
together; add to the boiling milk; remove from fire at once, so it 
does not separate. 

PEACH FLUFF 

1 quart peaches. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon shortening. 

^ cup milk. % cup sugar. 

Wash, pare and halve the peaches, put in shallow pudding 
pan with 1 cup of water and sugar; boil 10 minutes^ then cover 
with the dumplings, which are made as follows: 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt into bowl ; add shortening and 
rub in very lightly; add enough of cold milk to hold together; take 
teaspoonful of mixture into floured hands and form into small 
dumplings (this amount makes 10 dumplings) ; lay them on the 
peaches; cover and boil 10 minutes without raising the cover. 
Serve in the bakedish while warm. There will be enough syrup 
for the sauce in the dish; you may have to use a little more sugar, 
that depending on the kind of peaches. 



DAINTY PEACH PUDDING 

4 tablespoons granulated tapioca. 

4 tablespoons syrup or sugar. 

2 cups soft crushed peaches. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

Put the tapioca on in 4 cups of boiling water 30 minutes, or 
until clear; add syrup and salt. Brush a bakedish with Ijutter, 
put the peaches on the bottom; pour the tapioca over; place in 
bottom of moderate oven 30 minutes. If there is no hot oven, set 
on top of range (not very hot) just long enough for it to set. It 
can be flavored with vanilla or nutmeg if desired. 



104 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

PEACH CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

4 peaches. 2 cups milk, i^ cup sugar. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

Put the milk on to boil; mix the cornstarch with a little cold 
milk and half the sugar; add the yolk of egg, salt and nutmeg, an^ 
mix all well; then add to the boiling milk; boil 5 minutes; pour 
into shallow dish. 

Have the peaches washed, pared and halved; lay on coni- 
starch, stone side up; sprinkle with a little sugar; beat the white 
of egg until dry and add the rest of sugar; put 1 teaspoon of the 
meringue on each piece of peach in place of the pit; dust with 
sugar and place in oven to dry. 

Be sure the white of e^g is very cold, and beat it in soup 
plate with wire beater or silver fork, otherwise it will not get 
light. 

NEW APPLE SAUCE 

Surprising what a difference there is in apple sauce ! There 
is a right and a wrong way to cook apple sauce. In the first place, 
the sauce is the best if the apples are not pared. Just wash, cut 
in quarters, remove blossoms and stems, put in shallow saucepan 
and to each quart of apples add i^ cup of water; cover and put 
over hot fire until they begin to boil; remove cover and start mash- 
ing while they are boiling. When tender and mashed, remove 
from fire and mash thru colander or coarse strainer; add sweet- 
ening to taste and a little salt. If the apple is red, the sauce 
will be pink; if green, the sauce will have a pale green color. 
Cooking the seeds of the apples adds to the flavor of the sauce. 



NEW APPLE PANCAKES 

1 cup flour. iy2 cups milk. 

2 eggs. y2 teaspoon salt. 

Sift the flour and salt into bowl, add the milk and well-beaten 
eggs; beat 5 minutes. Have an iron pan very hot; remove from 
fire, put in 1 teaspoon of fat; shake pan, so the shortening will 
cover bottom. Return to fire, pour in a very little batter and 
shake the pan, so the batter will reach around. Shake pan the 
same as you would when frying an omelet. When nice and brown 
on both sides, spread with apple sauce, sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon and roll same as an omelet. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 105 

SAGO GRAPE PUDDING 

^ cup sago. 

2 cups loose Concord grapes. 

2 cups water. Pinch of salt. 

Wash the loose grapes and put in saucepan with the water; 
boil until skins are soft; mash thru strainer, return to fire, add 
the sago and salt and boil until clear; add sugar, fill into ice 
cream glasses and set in cold place. 



SUMMER SQUASH PUDDING 

1 quart cooked squash. 1 cup milk. 

3 eggs. 1^ cup brown sugar. 

14 cup syrup, or sweetening to taste. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon or orange peel. 

Pinch of ground mace. 

% tablespoon butter or oleomargarine. 

Mash the squash thru strainer; add the well-beaten eggs, 
sugar and flavoring; mix well, brush custard cups with butter or 
oleomargarine and fill with the mixture ; place in moderate oven 
40 to 45 minutes. Test same as cup custard, by putting a silver 
knife in center. If it comes out dry, the pudding is done. Serve 
in cups either warm or cold. 



STEAMED PEACH PUDDING 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
% teaspoon salt. y2 cup- milk. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 quart soft peaches. 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into bowl; add 
milk, well-beaten egg and butter or oleomargarine; mix well. 
Brush mold or bowl with butter or oleomargarine, cover with 
peaches (which have been washed, pared and cut in half) ; pour 
dough on the peaches, cover and set in saucepan of water; boil 
or steam 1 hour. Turn mold into shallow bowl, cover with 1 cup 
of crushed peaches, which have been mixed with % cup of sugar. 
This makes a very nice dessert. 



106 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

GRAPE GELATIN 

2 cups Concord grapes. 

% cup sugar. 1 tablesjpoon gelatin. 

Wash the grapes, put into saucepan with 2 cups of cold 
water ; boil 10 minutes ; mash and strain ; add the sugar and gela- 
tin, which has been dissolved in 1 cup boiling water. Dip mold or 
turk's head in cold water, strain in the mixture; set in cold place 
until firm. Turn out on plate. Whipped cream can be served if 
desired. 



; FROZEN DISHES 



FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 

1 quart strawberries. 

1 quart water. ^^ cup sugar. 

% cup honey. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Wash and hull the berries; mash very fine or put thru fruit 
press. Put 2 cups of water and the sugar on and boil 4 minutes. 
When cool, add the balance of the water, strawberries and lemon 
juice; pour into freezer, pack with ice and salt; churn 10 to 15 
minutes. Pack and set aside until ready to serve. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE 

2 cups grated pineapple. 

2 kups water. 1 cup sugar. 

Boil sugar and water together for 5 minutes ; when cold add 
the pineapple and lemon juice; put in freezer. Cover and ice, a 
layer of ice, then a layer of salt. Let stand for 5 minutes ; then 
turn 8 to 10 miimtes. 

/ FROZEN PEACHES 

4 cups criMed peaches. 2 cups sugar, j 

1 teaspoonlemon juice. / 

Ice and salJto freeze. ^ » /^ 

Wash auMpare the pfeche adbiLt th^kms on in 2 cups of 
cold water; boiTCO minutes; madHHpsl^n ; add 2 cups of sugar^ 
to the strained peach juice;'bcw3 mmuws; when cold, add the,^^ 
cups" of crushed peichea and lemon juice ;^ut int^^reezer imd 
freeze the same as frozen pineapple. ^ ^ 

A PEACH MILK/HERBET J^ 

1 quart mi^ . 1 cup crush« p'eaches. _^^ 

1 cup sugar; 1 ^ablespooil lemon juice. (10^'' 

Put the sugar and crushed peaches into a bowl^snr until 
"^tlfe sugar is dissolved; put the milk in^ a freezer ^j^Ht has been 
-papked in ice and salt (3 parts ice and I part salt) ; then add the 
crushed peaches and lemon juice. Turn at onctf. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 107 

BLACKBERRY ICE 

1 quart blackberries. 

1 quart water. 1% cups sugar. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice, i^ teaspoon salt. 

3 parts ice and 1 part salt to freeze. 

Put the blackberries and water in saucepan over slow fire; 
boil 5 minutes; add sugar, boil 1 minute, then mash thru wire 
strainer. When cold, put in freezer that has been iced; add lime 
or lemon juice; let stand 3 or 4 minutes, then turn until frozen 
the same as ice cream. 

FROZEN CUSTARD 

1 qua^t milk. % cup sugar. 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 
% teaspoon salt. 

y2 teaspoon vanilla extract. 

Beat the eggs and sugar until well mixed ; then add the corn- 
starch, which has been mixed with a little cold milk. Add all to 
the hot milk in a double boiler; cook for 30 minutes; cool and add 
the salt and flavoring. Freeze. Half a cup of fruit, chopped fine, 
may be added when the custard is partly frozen. 

LEMON WATER ICE 

% cup lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

1 cup sugajr, or sweeten to taste. 

3 cups water. / 

Put 1 cup of water on to boil ; add the siigar and boil 3 min- 
utes. When cold, add the remainder of the water, lemon juice 
and rind. (It must be a strong and very sweet lemonade.) Put 
into freezer, which has been packed with ice and salt. Turn 8 
to 10 minutes. 

FROZEN TEA 

1 quart of strong tea. . 

1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons lime or lemon juice. 

4 tablespoons orange juice. 

1 teaspoon each of grated lemon and orange peel, or 2 table- 
spoons of orange marmalade. ^ 
• The tea is strained and cooled, before putting in freezer; add 
sugar syrup and flavoring. Freeze same as frozen pineapple and 
serve in a tall glass, with thin slice of lemon on edge of glass. 

This can be sewed with the meal or at the end, and is excep- 
tionally nice for the afternoon caller. 



108 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

2 cups strawberries. 2 cups cream. 
1 cup milk. iy2 cups sugar. 
Ice and salt for freezing. 

Wash and hull the berries and mash thru a fine strainer, so 
none of the seeds go thru. Put the milk and sugar over fire in a 
small saucepan and brin^ to a boil ; set aside to cool. When cold, 
pour into the freezer, which has been packed with alternate layers 
of ice and salt. Pour in the cream and last the strawberry juice ; 
cover and begin to turn, adding ice and salt as it is needed. It 
will take 8 to 10 minutes to freeze; then remove dasher and pack 
with ice and salt and the wet bag in which the ice was broken. 
Be liberal with the salt. 



PEACH WHIP 

2 cups finely mashed peaches. 

% cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 

% cup boiling water. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Soak the gelatin in 1 tablespoon cold water 10 minutes; add 
the boiling water; when dissolved, add the sugar, lemon juice and 
peaches. Set bowl in pan of ice water, start beating and beat 
until it begins to form; put in ice cream glasses; cut 1 peach in 
pieces and garnish top. 

This can be served with whipped cream. 



PEACH SPONGE 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 

2 large, soft peaches. y2 cup sugar. 
2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Put the gelatin in bowl with 2 tablespoons cold water; soak 
10 minutes; pour over the boiling water, add the sugar and, when 
cool, but not set, add the lemon juice and the peaches, which have 
been pared, crushed and strained thru colander. 

Place bowl in pan of water with piece of ice ; beat the same 
as snow pudding until it gets firm. Pour into large mold, which 
has been rinsed with cold water; place mold in cold water until 
ready to serve. This is much improved if served with whipped 
cream. This is enough for 6 large helpings. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 109 



SEASONABLE CAKES 



OLD-FASHIONED STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 14 cup milk. 
2 cups strawberries. y2 cup sugar. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl, add shorten- 
ing and rub in lightly; add enough cold milk to make a soft 
dough, then place on floured pie plate and pat even ; brush top 
with milk, place in hot oven and bake 20 to 25 minutes. The 
amount of milk cannot be given, as flour varies. When cold, 
split, butter and cover with the berries, which have been hulled 
and crushed with the sugar, put on top and dust with pulverized 
sugar. 

This can be made into 6 small biscuits, then split and put 
crushed berries between and a spoonful of whipped cream on 
top. Garnish with whole berries. 

QUICK STRAWBERRY CAKE 

1 quart strawberries. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

14 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into bowl, add 
the milk slowly, then the beaten yolk of egg; mix well and add 
the melted butter. Brush pie plate with a little lard, pour in 
the mixture and bake 25 minutes. Remove from pan and when 
cool enough, split. Beat the whites of eggs until dry, add 2 
tablespoons sugar and spread over the top of cake (lay the top 
of cake on bottom of pietin), put into cool oven to dry. When 
ready to serve put the crushed strawberries between the cake. 
The strawberries are washed, hulled and crushed with 1 cup 
of sugar. 

CHERRY CAKE 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. % cup sugar. 

1/^ cup milk. 1 cup pitted cherries. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add sugar, 
milk, butter and well-beaten egg; mix well; add the cherries; pour 
in deep pietin and bake 25 minutes in a hot oven. Serve warm. 
Melt the butter in large pietin before adding to mixture. This 
greases the plate for the cake. 



110 MRS, SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

PLUM CAKE 

1 quart large blue plums. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon melted butter. 

14 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. Yz cup sugar. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, salt and 2 tablespoons sugar 
into bowl; add the milk, egg and melted butter; mix well. Have 
the plums washed and cut in half; remove stones. Place in the 
dough, skin side down, close together; cover with i/^ cup sugar; 
put in moderate oven 25 to 30 minutes. This is best when warm. 
You can save % teaspoon butter if when melting the butter for 
the cake you use the pan you expect to make it in. You not only 
save the butter, but save the washing of an extra dish. 

BANANA CAKE 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
34, teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 
Yz cup milk. 1 egg. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 3 bananas. 

Sift the flour, salt, baking powder and sugar together; add 
the milk and well-beaten egg ; mix well ; brush pan with the melted 
butter; pour in the mixture. Skin and scrape the bananas and 
cut into 4 pieces ; press into the dough. Sprinkle with pulverized 
sugar and bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. Serve warm with 
lemon sauce or fruit sauce. 

BANANA SHORTCAKE 

1% cups flour. 

iy2 teaspoons baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons shortening. Milk. 

2 tablespoons red jelly. 

3 ripe bananas. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add shortening; 
rub in very lightly; then add milk enough to make a dough same 
as drop biscuit. Dust pie plate or jelly pan with flour; put the 
dough on and smooth top. Bake in a hot oven 20 to 25 minutes. 
Split while warm, spread with jelly and cover both with bananas 
that have been cut into thin slices. Sprinkle with a little salt and 
sugar. Put together and sprinkle top with powdered sugar. Serve 
warm with milk. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 111 

PEACH SHORTCAKE 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
14 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon shortening. 
% cup milk. 

2 cups finely sliced or crushed peaches. 
y^ cup sugar. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add shorten- 
ing and rub in very lightly with the tips of fingers ; add milk 
enough to hold together. Dust pietin with flour; pat dough 
about 1 inch thick; brush top with milk and bake 25 minutes in 
hot oven. Split and cover with peaches which have been sweet- 
ened with sugar; dust top with sugar and serve warm 
with milk. 



COCOANUT LOAF CAKE 

y2 cup shortening. 1 cup granulated sugar. 
2 eggs. % cup fresh grated cocoanut. 
14 cup milk. 2 cups flour. 
2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar until light; add well-mixed yolks 
of eggs, milk, half the sifted flour and baking powder, the cocoa- 
nut, which has been pressed dry in fruit press or cheesecloth. Beat 
the whites of eggs until light; fold in and add the rest of flour. 
Place on bottom rack in moderate oven ; bake 45 minutes. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 squares of chocolate. 

14 cup shortening. % cup sugar. 

% cup syrup. 1 egg. 

1 cup mashed potatoes. 1 cup flour. 

4 level teaspoons baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. % teaspoon cinnamon. 

Cream shortening, sugar and syrup ; add the chocolate, that 
has been melted over hot water ; add the well-beaten egg and 1 cup 
of mashed potatoes rubbed thru strainer; then sift flour and 
baking powder in, mix well and bake in tube pan 45 to 50 min- 
utes or in 2 layer pans 20 minutes. If in layer pans, put to- 
gether with apple jelly or jelly of choice, or make a cream filling 
and put between layers. 



112 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

WHITE CAKE WITH YELLOW ICING 

% cup shortening, 1 cup sugar. 
% cup milk. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 

Cream the sugar and shortening until light, add the milk 
slowly; then add half the whites of eggs, which have been beaten 
until light; sift the flour and baking powder together, add half, 
then the rest of the whites of eggs and the rest of the flour. 
Bake in 2 layer pans 25 minutes in a hot oven. Dust with sugar 
before turning out. Layer pans must be brushed with melted 
fat and dusted with flour. 

Filling 

11/^ cups milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

A few grains of salt. 

A little grated lemon rind, or flavor to taste. 

Put the milk on to boil; mix the cornstarch with a little 
cold milk, the sugar and the well-beaten yolks of eggs and salt; 
mix well and add to the boiling milk slowly. When thick re- 
move from fire and spread between the cakes, then cover with 
icing which is made as follows : 

Icing 

Beat the yolk of 1 egg with 1 teaspQon water, 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice; add enough sugar, spread smoothly over cake. 



SPONGE CAKE CUSTARD 

1 cup cake crumbs. 1 cup milk. 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

2 soft peaches. 

Put the milk on to boil ; beat egg, sugar and a few grains of 
salt together, bring slowly to the boiling point and remove from 
fire at once; put a half of a mashed peach in bottom of ice 
cream glass or in saucedish, cover with the cake crumbs, pour 
over the custard. This should be very cold. 

The egg can be separated and the white put on top 
for a meringue. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 113 



JAMS 



WATERMELON COCKTAIL 

There was a piece of watermelon left from last evening's 
dinner. Remove the center, cut into half -inch cubes (or with a 
French potato cutter into rounds), pile into ice cream glasses and 
serve for first course. The rind you save and either pickle or 
make into marmalade. 



SWEET PICKLED MELON RIND 

4 quarts pared and cut rind. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

2 cups pure cider vinegar. 

2 level teaspoons mace. 

4 tablespoons broken cinnamon stick. 

2 level teaspoons cloves. 

4 tablespoons ginger root or sliced lemon. 

Pare the rind and cut it into pieces about 1 inch wide and 
2 inches long, the size is a matter of choice. Boil the sugar, 
vinegar and spices for 15 minutes; add half the rind and boil 
slowly until it is tender and clear. Remove the rind with skim- 
mer and pack it into well-sterilized jars with syrup to fill; 
adjust the rubber, which has been dipped into boiling water, 
then the sterilized lids ; then put the other half of the rind into 
the remaining syrup and proceed as before. There will be 
enough syrup for all the rind. 



PRESERVED WATERMELON RIND 

2 quarts rind, after cutting into i^-inch squares. 3 
cups sugar. 

1 lemon or 2-inch piece of green ginger root. 

Put the pared and cut rind into bowl ; cover with 2 quarts 
cold water; add 2 level tablespoons salt, let it stand 6 hours; 
drain, cover with fresh cold water for 2 hours; drain, make a 
syrup with 3 cups of sugar and 2 cups of water ; boil 5 minutes ; 
then add the rind ; boil very slowly, until tender ; remove rind 
with skimmer and set in moderate oven for 2 hours or until it 
has dried a little. Return the syrup to fire and add the lemon 
rind cut very fine and 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, boil very 
slowly 15 minutes, then add the rind; bring to boil and fill into 
sterilized jars at once. 



^ 



114 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

PEACH BUTTER 

Any of the cheap peaches will lend themselves to peach 
butter. All peaches should be washed before paring; the 
peaches are fuzzy and dusty, and if not washed the parings are 
not fit to use for syrup. 

To each quart of pared and cut peaches add 1 cup of water 
and 1 cup of brown sugar and i^ teaspoon salt; put into 
porcelain-lined kettle and bring to a boil quickly, skim, then 
boil slowly for 1 hour. Some peaches are more juicy than 
others; in that case they must boil longer or less water used. 
It must not separate. The butter can be flavored with a little 
ground cinnamon or spice if desired. Put in sterilized wide- 
mouthed bottles, cover with parowax and tie paper over top. 



PEAR BUTTER 

Pear butter can be made from the early poorer kinds, and 
is very good spread on bread and biscuit. The pears are 
washed, stem, blossom and bad places cut away; cut into 
quarters without paring; put in kettle with very little water; 
cover and cook until tender. Pour into colander, and when well 
drained mash thru and to each quart of pulp add 1 cup brown 
sugar, % cup syrup, 1 level teaspoon salt, 2 level teaspoons cin- 
namon, y2 level teaspoon grated nutmeg. Return to preserving 
kettle and cook slowly until it thickens. It must be 
stirred often. 



RASPBERRY JAM 

Pick the berries carefully, put in strainer and plunge in 
cold water; drain well and put a few in preserving kettle at a 
time. Mash with wooden potato masher. Continue until you 
have mashed 4 quarts. Bring to boiling point slowly and 
gradually; add the same amount of granulated sugar, which 
has been heated. Boil slowly 45 minutes, stirring quite often. 
Put in tumblers or wide-mouthed bottles. Cover with parowax 
and tie paper over top, or it will keep in stone crock if covered 
with parowax. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 115 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

3 quarts green gooseberries. 

5 cups brown sugar. 2 cups vinegar. 

6-inch piece of stick cinnamon. 

3 tablespoons whole cloves. 

Small piece of mace. 

Remove stems and blossoms of gooseberries; put into 
porcelain-lined kettle with sugar, vinegar and spices which 
have been tied in a piece of cheesecloth or mosquito netting. 
Bring to boiling point slowly and boil V-^ hours, skimming 
carefully. 

Pack while hot in wide-mouthed bottles that have been 
sterilized, cork or cover with parowax and tie or paste paper 
over top. 

This makes a delicious accompaniment to cold meat. 

Currants can be done the same way. 



GOOSEBERRY JAM 

1 quart gooseberries. 

3 cups sugar. 2 cups water. 

Remove blossom and stem from the berries, cut in half; 
put into agate saucepan or porcelain-lined kettle ; add the water 
and boil slowly until tender ; then add sugar and boil 10 minutes. 
Fill into glasses. When cold cover with parowax. 

This small quantity can be prepared while getting dinner. 
It takes less time if berries are cut in half. 



PEACH JAM 

Use the second grade or poorer peaches; brush or rub off 
the fuzz. 

Pare, saving the parings for jellies and syrups, remove all 
bad spots and cut peaches into quarters. Put into preserving 
kettle and to each quart of fruit add 1 cup sugar or ^^ cup 
syrup. Mix well and set over slow fire. After it comes to a boil, 
boil slowly 45 minutes, stirring quite often with wooden spoon, 
'removing the scum carefully. 

Fill into well-sterilized jars, adjust rubbers, which have 
been dipped into boiling water, put on sterilized lid, fasten 
tight and when cold set in cool, dark place. 

The peaches can be mashed with a wooden masher to make 
a smooth jam or can be left in small pieces. That is a matter 
of taste. 



116 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



HOME FLAVORS 



CHILI VINEGAR 

Wash and fill a quart jar with the small red peppers. There 
are different kinds; some are 1 inch long and others 3 inches. 
The small, very thin ones are best. Fill jar with cider vinegar 
and set in dark, cool place for 2 weeks. More vinegar can be 
used as needed. 

TARRAGON VINEGAR 

To 1 quart of old vinegar use 1 cupful of tarragon leaves. 
Put into wide-mouthed bottle, cork the bottle and set in cool 
place for 2 weeks; shake the bottle 3 or 4 times during that 
time; remove from bottle and boil 5 minutes; strain, return to 
bottle and cork tight. 

FLAVORED VINEGARS 

Flavored vinegars are very helpful. There are tarragon, 
celery, horseradish, chili, onion and spiced vinegar. Each has 
its distinctive flavor and makes a very pleasant change where 
vinegar is needed. 

DRIED CELERY LEAVES 

Dried celery leaves are very helpful at all times for soups, 
sauces, dressings and salads, and every supply shelf should have 
2 or 3 bottles on hand at all times. 

Whether they are green or yellow leaves, pick the nice 
leaves off, wash, dry on piece of cheesecloth ; put the leaves in 
either flour or sugar bag ; lay on top of range or warming shelf 
for 2 or 3 days. When thoroly dry, rub and put into wide- 
mouthed bottles ; cork tight. This makes a very good flavor for 
potato salad. 

HORSERADISH VINEGAR 

1 quart vinegar. 1 cup grated horseradish, 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar. 
1% level teaspoons salt. 

Put the horseradish into quart jar, add sugar and salt, 
cover with the vinegar, which has been brought to a boil ; close 
jar and set in cool place for 2 weeks; then strain and put into 
bottles, cork and label for future use. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 111 

SWEET HERBS 

Sweet basil, tl^yme, sweet marjoram, sage and summer savory 
are dried the same as parsley, but care must be taken that they do 
not burn, and always keep the bottles corked or glasses 
closed tight. 

DRIED GRATED LEMON PEEL 

When using lemons in a way that does not call for the rinds, 
carefully pare off the yellow portion and run it thru the meat 
chopper with the finest plate; dry and put away in glass jar; 
use in cake and puddings. 



CELERY VINEGAR 

1 quart vinegar. 

2 cups green celery leaves. 

1 tablespoon sugar, y^ teaspoon salt. 

Wash and dry the fresh green celery leaves; put into glass 
jar, cover with vinegar, add sugar and salt, cover jar and set 
in pan of cold water; put pan on fire and boil 1 hour; remove 
and stand in cool place 3 days ; strain, fill into bottles and label. 

This is exceptionally good for cold slaw and potato salad, 
and when celery is scarce the vinegar will come in very handy. 



SPICED VINEGAR 

1 quart vinegar. 

1 tablespoon each of whole cloves, allspice, mustard seed. 
1-inch piece cinnamon bark. 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar. 
i/^ level teaspoon salt. 

Put the vinegar and spices on to boil ; boil 15 minutes, when 
cold put into jar and let stand 2 weeks; then strain and fill into 
bottles, cork and label. This is exceptionally good for beef a la 
mode and sour sauces. 

ONION VINEGAR 

1 quart vinegar. 2 cups grated onion. 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar. 
1 level teaspoon salt. 

Put the ®nion into quart jar, add sugar and salt, let stand 
3 hours; then fill jar with cold vinegar; let stand 3 weeks; 
shake jar 2 or 3 times. At the end of 3 weeks strain into bot- 
tle, cork and label. This vinegar lends a very delicate onion 
flavor and is exceptionally good in French dressing for salads. 



118 MRS, SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



BREADS 



RAISIN WHOLE WHEAT MUFHNS 

2 cups whole wheat flour. % cup seeded raisins. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 egg. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

1 teaspoon melted shortening or oil. 

Sift the whole wheat flour, baking powder, salt and sugar 
into bowl; add the milk slowly; then add the well-beaten egg, 
raisins and butter; mix well. Brush muffin tins with lard; put 
1 spoonful of mixture into each; bake in hot oven 20 minutes. 
This makes 12 large muffins. 



BAKING POWDER CINNAMON CAKE 

2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
y2 teaspoon salt. ^^ cup sugar. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. ^^ cup raisins. 

2 tablespoons shortening. Milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt and half the sugar into bowl, 
add shortening and rub in very lightly. Add raisins, then milk 
enough to make a stiff dough. Put in a greased shallow pan ; 
brush top with butter and sprinkle with balance of sugar, mixed 
with cinnamon. Bake 20 minutes. 



SOUTHERN POTATO BISCUIT 

6 cups flour. 6 teaspoons baking powder. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

2 cups hot mashed potatoes. 

6 tablespoons butter or other shortening. 

1 cup milk. 2 eggs. 

Mash the potatoes thru strainer, add salt, milk and butter 
or shortening, well-beaten egg. Beat until smooth, then sift in 
flour and baking powder. Turn out on floured board, cut with 
small biscuit cutter, put into hot oven. Bake 20 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 119 

POTATO DROP YEAST BISCUITS 

2 cups whole wheat or white flour. 

2 cups mashed potatoes. 

% cup lukewarm milk. 1 egg. 

2 tablespoons melted shortening, butter or oleomargarine. 

1 rounded or 2 level teaspoons sugar. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

% yeast cake dissolved in 2 tablespoons warm water. 

Put the potatoes (which have been boiled and skinned) 
thru fruit press, put in bowl, add salt, sugar and shortening 
and milk. Dissolve the yeast in the warm water and add to the 
potato mixture. Add enough flour to make a soft sponge. Set 
in warm place to rise for about 2 hours, then add the well-beaten 
egg, add rest of flour and mix well with wooden spoon. Cover 
and set in warm place until it has risen double in quantity. 
Brush muffin pans with grease and drop a tablespoonful in 
each. Let rise again double in quantity. Put in moderately hot 
oven and bake 25 or 30 minutes. Brush top with a little milk 
and melted butter or oleomargarine. 



OLD-TIME CINNAMON CAKE 

Made from raised dough. A good plan when baking bread 
is to take some of the sponge, say 2 cupfuls, to it add 2 table- 
spoons melted shortening, 1 well-beaten egg and enough flour to 
make the dough so it can be rolled out % inch thick; put on 
pietins and set to raise. When it is double the thickness, brush 
the top with melted butter, sprinkle very liberally with brown 
sugar, a little powdered cinnamon and bake in moderate oven 
until brown. 

Another good addition is to mix 2 tablespoons of peanut 
butter with the melted butter and spread on dough, then the 
sugar, but not any cinnamon. 



120 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



BEVERAGES 



iCED COCOA 

A very nourishing and refreshing drink. The cocoa can be 
made with water and served with whipped cream or with 
marshmallow whip instead of sugar and cream, or it can be 
made with part milk and water or all milk. The best and 
quickest way is to have your cocoa syrup on hand, add to either 
cold milk or water. Again, the strength depends on one's liking. 
Following is the recipe for cocoa syrup : 



COCOA SYRUP 

1 cup cocoa. 2 cups sugar. 

2 cups water. % teaspoon salt. 

Put the water and sugar in saucepan, stir until dissolved, 
put on fire and boil 5 minutes; mix cocoa with cold water to 
make a paste and add to the boiling water and sugar ; boil slow- 
ly for 10 minutes; add the salt. When cold put into bottle or 
glass jar in the refrigerator, and you are prepared for any 
social emergency. 

ICED TEA 

Freshly made tea is best. Scald the pot, add the required 
amount of tea, then the freshly boiled water. Much depends 
on how strong one likes it and the kind of tea used. One must 
always bear in mind that when adding ice the tea will be weak- 
ened. It is a saving of sugar if the sugar and lemon are added 
to the tea, then served with a thin slice of lemon. The lemon 
should always be washed in warm water and rolled before 
squeezing. A little of the grated rind also adds to the flavor. A 
slice of orange can be served with the lemon if desired. 



ICED COFFEE 

Again, the strength of coffee depends on one's liking. It 
should be strong. Sweeten and serve with whipped cream. No 
milk or cream is put in the coffee. Good coffee is made by allow- 
ing 1 rounded tablespoon of coffee to 1 cup (I/2 pint) water. For 
boiled coffee put 1 tablespoon of ground coffee for each cup, put 
in cold water, bring to a very slow boil, add crushed egg shell 
to clear. If drip coffee, use very fine^ ground or powdered 
coffee. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 121 



JELLIES 



Jellies are made from all kinds of cooked fruit juices and 
sugar. In most cases 1 cup of granulated sugar to 1 cup of fruit 
juice is used, and if fruit is in right condition, not overripe, 
there will be no failures, but when fruit is overripe the jelly 
will not get stiff. 

But, housekeeper, there is no loss, as there are many things 
that can be made from tli^e soft jellies during the winter months. 

Has it ever occurred to you that the soft jelly will go 
further used for hotcakes, waffles, omelets, layer cakes, pan- 
cakes and as a spread for children's bread? 

Jellies made from apple, quince and peach parings are 
made as follows : 

The parings are put on to boil ; to 1 quart of parings allow 
2 cups of cold water. Cook or simmer until the water has ap- 
parently boiled away. It is well to mash the parings, then put 
in cheesecloth bag and let drip overnight. In the morning add 
1 cup of sugar, which has been warmed in oven, to 1 cup of fruit 
juice. Boil 8 minutes. One apple can be used to each quart of 
parings of any kind of fruit. 

PLUM JELLY 

The blue plum is best for jelly. Put plums into wire basket 
or strainer, plunge into cold water; drain, and to each quart of 
plums use 1 cup of water; put into preserving kettle and boil 
until soft; stir or mash until broken, then put into jelly bag and 
drip 24 hours. To each cup of plum juice add 1 cup of warmed 
sugar; stir until dissolved. Boil 8 to 10 minutes, removing all 
scum ; pour in glasses that have been dipped into boiling water. 
When cold, cover with parowax or white paper. 



PLUM JAM OR BUTTER 

The plum pulp that remains in the bag after making plum 
jelly is put in preserving kettle, and with silver fork remove 
the stones, and to each cup of pulp add 1-3 cup of water. (I 
usually put the stones in a small bowl, and after measuring the 
pulp I put the water over the stones, rinsing them, and then 
adding the water to the pulp.) Add i/^ cup sugar to each cup 
of pulp, put over slow fli"e and boil 30 minutes. Be sure to re- 
move the skUm; put into sterilized glasses or wide-mouthed 
bottles. Cover with parowax or paper. 



122 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



CANNING 



CANNED ELDERBERRIES 

Pick and wash the elderberries, put into porcelain-lined 
kettle with 1 cup of hot water to each quart of berries. Boil 15 
minutes; stir occasionally with wooden spoon. To each quart 
add y2 level teaspoon of salt, put into well-sterilized jars, ad- 
just rubbers, which have been dipped into boiling water; put 
sterilized lids on, fasten and set in boiler on rack. Fill boiler 
with warm water 1 inch over the lids and boil 30 minutes. 

No sugar is needed, but when wanted for dessert or pies, 1 
cup of sugar can be added to each quart of berries. 

CANNED BLACKBERRIES 

4 quarts blackberries. 

2 cups sugar. 

Have large, ripe berries, pick carefully, put into wire bas- 
ket or strainer, plunge into cold water; drain, then put into 
preserving kettle. Sprinkle with sugar and let stand 3 hours. 
Put over fire, bring to boiling point slowly; boil 10 minutes; 
remove the scum carefully; put into well-sterilized jars. Dip 
rubber into boiling water and adjust and cover with well- 
sterilized lid. Fasten at once. 



COLD-PACK CANNED BLACKBERRIES 

Pick nice, large blackberries, put into wire basket or 
wire strainer, plunge into cold water; pack in well-sterilized 
jars, then fill to overflowing with syrup; adjust rubber, which 
has been dipped into boiling water; put on the sterilized lid; 
set into boiler on rack; fill with warm water 1 inch over top of 
jars and boil 30 minutes. 

Be sure they do not leak. 

The syrup is made by boiling 2 cups of sugar .vith 2 cups 
of water for 10 minutes. 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

Put the berries in preserving kettle on very moderate fire 
until soft; as they get hot the juice will come; then mash thru 
wire strainer, and to each cup of strained berries add 14 cup of 
sugar; return to fire and boil 25 minutes. Remove the scum 
and stir occasionally. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 123 

CANNED RASPBERRIES 

4 quarts raspberries. 

2 cups sugar. 

Have large, ripe berries, pick carefully, put into wire bas- 
ket or strainer, plunge into cold water; drain, then put into 
preserving kettle. Sprinkle with sugar and let stand for 3 
hours. Put over fire, bring to boiling point slowly; boil 10 min- 
utes; remove the scum carefully; put into well-sterilized jars. 
Dip rubber into boiling water and adjust and cover with well- 
sterilized lid. Fasten at once. 

COLD-PACK CANNED RASPBERRIES 

Pick nice, large raspberries, put into wire basket or 
strainer, plunge into cold water; pack in well-sterilized jars, 
then fill to overflowing with syrup ; adjust the rubbers, which 
have been dipped into boiling water; put on the sterilized lid; 
set into boiler on rack; fill with warm water 1 inch over tops of 
jars and boil 30 minutes. 

Be sure they do not leak. 

The syrup is made by boiling 2 cups of sugar with 2 cups 
of water for 10 minutes. 

CANNED CHERRIES WITH PITS 

3 pounds cherries. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup water. 

Wash and stem the cherries, put into well-sterilized jars; 
boil sugar and water 10 minutes; skim carefully, then pour 
over cherries; adjust the rubbers, which have been dipped into 
boiling water; then put on well-sterilized lids, fasten and put 
jars into boiler on rack; cover with boiling water 1 inch above 
tops of jars; cover the boiler and boil 15 minutes; remove, and 
when cold, put in cool, dark place. Be sure they do not leak. 

PITTED CANNED CHERRIES 

3 pounds cherries. 

3 cups sugar. 1 cup water. 

Wash, stem and pit the cherries, saving the juice. Boil 
sugar and water 10 minutes ; skim carefully. Put cherries into 
well-sterilized jars, pour the syrup over them; adjust the rub- 
bers, which have been dipped into boiling water; then put on 
well-sterilized lids, fasten and put jars into boiler on rack; 
cover with boiling water 1 inch above tops of jars; cover the 
boiler and boil 15 minutes; remove, and when cold, put in cool, 
dark place. Be sure they do not leak. 

The juice from the cherries is added to the sugar and water 
before boiling. 



124 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHERRY MARMALADE 

4 pounds sour cherries after pitting. 
3 pounds granulated sugar. 

Wash, dry, stem and pit the cherries; then put thru food 
chopper (large knife), saving all the juice; put into preserving 
kettle; add the juice and sugar and boil slowly until thick. Be 
sure to remove all scum while cooking. Some cherries have 
more juice than others, especially if picked immediately after, 
a rain. In that case, it takes longer to cook them. 

This makes a most delicious marmalade and can be filled 
into large-mouthed bottles or tumblers of any shape; cover 
with paraffin or parowax. 



CANNED PEAS— COLD-PACK METHOD 

Be careful when shelling the peas not to make yourself 
double work. Do not put the shelled peas back in the bowl with 
the unshelled ones; have a bowl or pan for the peas, one 
for the pods and a quart measure for the peas. When you put 
the shelled peas in with the peas, the blossoms and 
leaves must be picked out. Then, too, I have seen housekeepers 
put the peas in pan of cold water and pour off whatever floats 
on top. They forget that the very young and tender pea floats 
on top, and so they are wasted, or it takes a long time to pick 
out the leaves and blossoms from the peas. 

Therefore, put the peas in one vessel, the shells in another; 
then shelled peas are put in quart measure, then you save 
measuring the amount when needed for each jar. 

Put the shelled peas into wire basket or fine strainer, 
plunge into boiling water a moment, then plunge in cold water. 
Pack in well-sterilized jar, fill jar with boiling water to over- 
fiowing, add 1 level teaspoon of salt to each quart of water; 
adjust rubber that has been dipped into boiling water, put on 
top, but do not fasten; set in boiler on rack, fill boiler with 
warm water to within 1 inch of top, put lid on boiler and boil 
iy2 hours; then fasten tops, lay on side and boil 10 minutes. 
Remove from boiler, wipe and be sure tops are tight. When 
cold, set away in cool, dark place. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 125 

CANNED LIMA BEANS— COLD-PACK METHOD 

Be sure the lima beans are fresh and not too large. I would 
suggest, if they are mixed, as sometimes is the case, when shell- 
ing put the small ones in the quart measure and the large ones 
in a separate pan ; the small ones will be canned and the larger 
ones dried, inasmuch as the large ones are really better for 
drying. Then they are even sized and much more attractive. 
So often when one gets a helping of lima beans 3 or 4 large 
yellow-looking ones spoil the entire helping. 

Shell the beans, put in wire basket or strainer, plunge in 
boiling water, then in cold water; pack into well-sterilized jars, 
fill with boiling water to overflowing and add 1 level teaspoon 
of salt to each quart. Adjust the rubbers, which have been 
dipped into boiling water; put on the sterilized lid, set in boiler 
on rack, fill boiler with warm water to within 1 inch of top; 
cover boiler and boil continuously V^ hours. Fasten top on, 
lay jar on its side in boiler, boil 10 minutes; remove from water, 
dry and be sure the top is fastened tight. When cold, set away 
in cool, dark place. 



CANNED STRING BEANS— COLD-PACK METHOD 

Perfect sterilization is absolutely necessary to keep beans, 
or, in fact, any vegetable. It is well if one has 2 wash boilers, 
but where 2 are not available, a good way is to wash the jars, 
fill with cold water and put into the boiler on rack; then fill the 
boiler with cold water to within an inch of top of jar ; put on fire 
and boil; then when the beans are ready to fill into jars, lift 
them out, emptying and filling 1 jar at a time. The beans are 
prepared as fallows : 

String the beans and cut into half -inch pieces or inch lengths ; 
put into wire basket or strainer; plunge into boiling water, then 
into cold water. Pack into well-sterilized jars; add boiling water 
to overflowing; add 1 level teaspoon of salt to each quart of water 
before covering. Adjust rubber, which has been dipped in boil- 
ing water ; put on the sterilized top, but do not fasten. Set jar in 
boiler on a rack ; fill boiler with warm water to within 1 inch of 
top of jar. Close wash boiler and boil constantly 1% hours ; then 
tighten lid and lay jar down and boil 10 minutes longer. Remove 
from boiling water, wipe and be sure top is on tight. When cold, 
set away in cool, dark place. 



126 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CANNED HUCKLEBERRIES OR BLUEBERRIES 

Huckleberries, sometimes called blueberries, are picked 
and washed, put into porcelain-lined kettle with 1 cup of hot 
water to each quart of berries; boil 15 minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally with wooden spoon. To each quart add i/^ level tea- 
spoon of salt. Put into well-sterilized jars, dip rubbers in 
boiling water and adjust; put on the sterilized lid, fasten and 
set in boiler or rack. Fill with warm water 1 inch above the 
lids and boil 30 minutes. No sugar is needed, but when using 
for dessert or pies, add 1 cup of sugar to each quart of berries. 



CANNED TOMATOES 

When buying a basket or bushel of tomatoes to can, it is 
always best to lift them out of the basket. It mashes and bruises 
tomatoes to pour them out. One can give the tradesman an 
empty basket in exchange. 

When lifting the tomatoes out sort them into two, three or 
four piles, depending on the size of the tomatoes. 

The best firm, small,, even-sized ones are canned for salad; 
the large, firm ones are prepared for stewing tomatoes ; the very 
ripe ones, which are not so firm, are canned for soup, sauces and 
catsup. Late in the season, about the last of September or begin- 
ning of October, when underripe tomatoes are among them, they 
can be used for tomato butter and pickles, of which we will speak 
later. 



CANNED CHERRIES 

The important point in canning cherries is to have them per- 
fect; no decayed spots. It is always best to plan to make jam 
while canning; then, when picking over the cherries, those that 
are not perfect can be put into another saucepan for the jam. 
Then when pitting, if there are any spots, cut them off. Sour 
cherries are best for canning and jam. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 127 

DRYING CORN 

Corn is one of the most difficult things to dry, inasmuch as 
it takes more watching than other vegetables, but it certainly pays 
for the trouble. It is not only delicious, but is very nutritious, 
and there are innumerable ways of preparing it during the winter 
months. 

Another reason one should take the time to dry corn is that 
no jars, rubbers or cans are needed, and there is no danger of 
spoiling. Any wide-mouthed bottle or can that cannot be 
utilized for jam or butters can be utilized for the dried corn. 
It is not necessary to have it airtight. 

Dry the corncobs to use for kindling when the weather gets 
cold; and you all know that husks, if pulled fine, make nice, 
sweet cushions for porch and for other uses. 

Any corn will do, but sweet (sugar) corn is best. The corn 
should not be too old and must be fresh. With a sharp knife cut 
it off, not too close to the cob, then scrape the cob with the back 
of knife, spread on agate platter, old china platter or plates or 
wooden rack. Place in moderate oven. It is very important to 
turn the corn about every 15 minutes until it is apparently dry. 
It takes from 5 to 6 hours; then remove from oven, leave on 
plate or rack and when cold cover. Next day return to very 
moderate oven and, stirring occasionally, allow it to dry very 
hard. It usually gets brown (the sweeter the corn the darker 
in color), but be sure it is very dry before you put it into clean, 
dry bottles. As an extra precaution, put bottles in oven to dry. 

You can dry as much corn as the oven racks will hold 
plates, platters or racks. 

If one lives in a clean neighborhood, the second day's drying 
can be done in the hot sun. In that case, cover with a piece 
of netting. 

SALTED CORN 

Corn must be fresh and full grown, but not old. Brush and 
remove silk with small vegetable brush, put corn in large vessel 
and cover with boiling water 3 or 4 minutes. Remove; when 
cooled, cut the corn from cob, being careful not to cut too close 
to cob. 

Scald crock or glass jars and dry them; put in layers of 3 
inches of corn and % inch cooking salt. Fill crock or jar, cover 
with piece of muslin or worn table linen that has been sterilized 
and then dipped in salted water — 2 tablespoons of salt to 2 cups 
of water. 

If crock is used, put a piece of board on top, and if glass 
jars are used, fit a small piece of muslin under lid and fasten 
top. Set away in cool, dark place. 



128 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



SANDWICHES 



COCOA PASTE 

Bread. 

1/^ cup cocoa. y2 cup sugar. 

1/4 cup boiling water (about) . 

1^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix the sugar and boiling water in bowl ; place bowl in pan of 
boiling water, then add the cocoa and salt, stirring very hard; 
when smooth, remove from pan of water, stirring it 5 minutes. 
When cool and soft (not cold, as it gets hard) , spread on 6 thin 
slices of bread; place on top of each other and firmly press: cut 
into slices as you would cut a jelly cake. 

COCOANUT SANDWICH 

% cup grated cocoanut. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 
1/4 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons orange juice or 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Wash and dry the raisins. Put thru food chopper; add the 
grated cocoanut, which must be dry, and the salt and fruit juices ; 
spread between thin slices of white bread cut in three-cornered 
shapes. No butter is needed with this paste. 

SWEET ECONOMY SANDWICHES 

These are exceptionally good when jams, fruit butters and 
jellies are low. Take all the small pieces of stale bread and dry 
them in the oven ; then put thru food chopper or place on bake- 
board and roll until fine ; then_ put the crumbs in bowl and add 
syrup enough to make a thick jam ; a little salt to take away the 
flat taste; a few nuts put thru food chopper with the bread 
makes a very pleasant change. This makes a dandy sweet 
sandwich for the huiigry school boy or girl. 

LAYER OR RIBBON SANDWICHES 

Loaf bran bread. 
Loaf white bread. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons mayonnaise or 

2 tablespoons butter and seasoning. 

Remove the crust from the bread ; cut into thin slices. Spread 
the white slices with egg paste and the brown slices on both sides 
with butter; then a white slice with egg paste, a brown slice and 
a white slice, making 5 slices of bread. Then cut into 1%-inch 
strips, each 5 slices, making 4 sandwiches. Wrap in wax paper 
until ready to use. These sandwiches are very attractive and 
good. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 129 

PEANUT BUTTER AND RAISIN SANDWICHES 

1 loaf day-old whole wheat bread. 
1 cup seeded raisins. 
% cup peanut butter. 
A pinch of salt. 

Wash and dry the raisins; put thru food chopper twice; mix 
with peanut butter and salt until a smooth paste. Remove the 
crust from the bread and cut into thin slices. Spread the mixture, 
press together and cut 3-cornered shapes. These are most attract- 
ive and tasty. No butter is used. 



JAPANESE SANDWICHES 

1 cup boiled rice. 
1 teaspoon grated onion. 
1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

y2 cup sardines (skin and bone removed) or any cold fish 
may be used. 

^ teaspoon paprika. 

1 tablespoon chopped stuffed olives. 

Put the rice, fish and olives thru the meat chopper ; add the 
onion, parsley, paprika and oil from the sardines; mix well to 
make a paste ; spread between thin slices of dark bread. Do not 
use butter, as the oil from the sardines is very rich. 



DEVILED EGG SANDWICHES 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 14 teaspoon mustard. 

14 teaspoon salt. Dash white pepper. 

Dash paprika. 

1 tablespoon butter or olive oil. 

1 tablespoon vinegar. 

1 tablespoon onion juice. 

1 tablespoon cut parsley or green pepper. 

Cut the eggs in half; remove the yolks with a silver fork; 
powder; then add the mustard, salt, pepper, paprika, cayenne 
pepper and vinegar; mix well and add the other ingredients; mix 
well. Chop the whites of eggs very fine and add to the yolks. If 
not moist enough, add more vinegar. Spread bread with egg 
paste, put shredded lettuce between. This makes 6 sandwiches, 4 
inches square. 

All sandwiches should be wrapped in wax paper. 



130 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHEESE AND PARSLEY SANDWICH 

1 cake cream cheese. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Dash paprika. 

Dash white pepper. 

Pinch salt. 

Mix the cheese, parsley, salt, pepper and paprika with just 
enough milk or cream to make a smooth paste. Spread one thin 
slice of bread with butter and the other with the cheese paste; 
press together and cut into fancy shapes. 

PRUNE AND MARSHMALLOW SANDWICHES 

1 cup uncooked prunes. 

% cup marshmallow whip. 

1 teaspoon lemon or orange juice. 

A few grains salt. 

Wash and dry the prunes, remove the stones and put them 
thru food chopper; add fruit juice and salt; mix well; spread 
one slice of bread with the prune and other with marshmallow 
whip ; press together and cut into diagonals. 

Note: Two tablespoons chopped nut meats may be added 
or 1 tablespoon peanut butter. 

CREAM CHEESE AND OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Bran bread. 1 cake Philadelphia cream cheese. 
8 stuffed olives. Salt and pepper. 

Mix the cheese with salt, pepper and milk enough to make 
a smooth paste so it can be spread. Spread slices of bread. Cut 
the olives in thin rings and spread on cheese. Both slices of 
bread must be spread with cheese, and olives are put between. 
Cut in 3-cornered shapes. 

RAISIN PASTE SANDWICHES 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

% cup English walnuts or peanuts. 

2 tablespoons lemon or orange juice. 
1/4 teaspoon salt. 

Wash and dry the raisins; put the raisins and nuts thru 
the food chopper; add salt and orange or lemon juice and mix 
well ; this should make a smooth paste, but if it is too dry, add a 
little more fruit juice. Spread between thinly sliced whole 
wheat or white bread ; cut in finger shapes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 131 

CHEESE AND OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Take 1 Neufchatel cheese and 2 tablespoons chopped olives 
and cream together with just enough milk to make a smooth 
paste. Spread thinly sliced health bread and cut in 3-cornered 
shapes. 

CHEESE AND JELLY SANDWICHES 

Mix 1 Neufchatel cheese with just enough milk or cream to 
make a smooth paste ; add a pinch of salt. Spread one thin slice 
of bread with butter and the currant jelly, the other slice with 
the cheese, and press together. Cut the bread into triangles, 

CHEESE PASTE SANDWICHES 

1 cup grated American cheese. 
12 stuffed olives. 

2 tablespoons melted butter. 
y2 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 
Dash white pepper. Dash paprika. 

Chop the olives fine, mix all the ingredients together and 
make a smooth paste. Spread between thinly sliced rye or 
white bread; all crusts should be removed; cut in 3-cornered 
shapes. 

ROLLED BREAD AND BUTTER OR CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Cut the bread very thin ; remove all crust. Have the butter 
quite soft, or if cheese is being used be sure it is worked soft 
and seasoned ; a few drops of milk can be used in mixing it, so 
that it can be easily spread ; roll and wrap in wax paper until 
ready to use. 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE AND PEANUT BUTTER PASTE 

1 Neufchatel or cream cheese. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

34 cup peanut butter. 

Dash white pepper. Dash paprika. 

Mix all the ingredients and add milk enough to it so as to 
spread easily. Spread on thin slices of bran bread and press to- 
gether, or spread with just peanut butter. Most persons are 
fond of peanuts or peanut butter. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 138 



Part III — Autumn Recipes 

(October, November, December) 



OYSTERS 



OYSTER COCKTAIL 

24 oysters. 

1 tablespoon grated horseradish. 

1 tablespoon tomato catsup. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon cayenne pepper. 
14 teaspoon paprika. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Mix all together thoroly. This is enough for 6 cocktails. 
Serve the mixture in sherbet glasses in center of soup plate, 
with finely crushed ice around and 4 oysters on top of ice, with 
extra slice of lemon and a sprig of parsley. 



FRIED OYSTERS 

Drain 25 oysters in colander, then dip in fine breadcrumbs, 
laying oysters separately, so as not to lay on one another, after 
they have been dipped in breadcrumbs the first time. Beat 2 
eggs with 2 tablespoons milk and a teaspoon pepper. Very 
carefully pick up the oysters and put in the egg ; remove from 
egg and dip in breadcrumbs ; fry in deep fat, very hot (smoking 
hot) ; drain on tissue toweling or blotting paper ; when all are 
fried dust with a little salt. 



134 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

OYSTER STEW 

20 medium-sized oysters. 

2 cups milk. 

1 level teaspoon butter. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

A few grains of red pepper, or a dash of white pepper. 

Drain the oysters; put in a shallow pan; bring to boil 
quickly. Add the butter, salt, pepper and milk, which must be 
at the boiling point. The milk is put on fire before the oysters, 
as it takes the 2 cups of milk longer to come to a boil than it 
does the 20 oysters. The quicker one brings the oysters to a boil 
the better they will be. Serve with oyster or the old-fashioned 
water crackers. It adds much to the stew if the crackers are 
heated, as the cold crackers chill the stew. This amount fills 4 
average soup plates. 

OYSTER CHOWDER 

1 quart milk. 

25 oysters. 

1 quart diced white potatoes. 

1 tablespoon drippings or butter substitute. 

1 cup cracker crumbs or dried breadcrumbs. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. 

Bring the oysters to a boil, drain (save the stock for chow- 
der) and chop oysters in small pieces ; add to the potatoes, which 
have been boiled until tender in very little water. 

Put drippings or butter substitute in pan, add the flour, stir 
until smooth, then add to potatoes and oysters. Add hot milk, 
oyster stock and seasoning. Just before serving add crumbs 
and parsley. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

30 medium-sized oysters. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

A few grains red pepper or a little white pepper. 

Small piece of whole mace. 

6 thin slices of toasted bread. 

Drain the oysters ; put in shallow pan over quick fire. As 
soon as the gills curl, cover with sauce and boil 3 minutes. 

Sauce.— Put butter into pan over fire, and when melted re- 
move. Add flour and mace and stir smooth. Return to fire 
and add cold milk slowly, stirring until smooth and thick. Add 
salt and pepper. Remove the mace before serving. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 135 

BROILED OYSTERS, BROWN SAUCE 

30 oysters. 

2 tablespoons butter or substitute. 

2 tablespoons flour. % teaspoon salt. 

1^ cups milk. 1 teaspoon caramel. 

6 thin slices toast. 

Sprigs of parsley. 

1 teaspoon table sauce. 

The sauce for the oysters is made first and put in top of 
double boiler. It is made as follows : 

Put the butter in pan ; when melted add the flour and stir 
until mixed. Add milk or stock or half milk and half stock, 
seasoning and caramel. Stir until smooth and boil 5 minutes. 
Then put the griddle on fire, and when very hot brush with fat. 
The oysters are drained and dried with a piece of cheesecloth; 
then put them on hot griddle and brown quickly. Turn with 
cake turner or spatula. Dust with salt and paprika. Put into 
sauce at once. One must be careful not to put too many on the 
griddle at one time. Be sure to put into sauce as soon as they 
are browned. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

25 oysters. 

2 cups breadcrumbs. 
34 cup milk. 

2 tablespoons butter or oleomargarine. 

Brush bakedish with butter or oleomargarine; cover the 
bottom with breadcrumbs, then lay the oysters in carefully; 
dust with salt and pepper and cover with the breadcrumbs; pour 
over the milk and dot with the remainder of the butter or oleo- 
margarine. Bake in hot oven 20 to 25 minutes. 

OYSTERS IN CASSEROLE 

20 oysters. 

2 cups breadcrumbs. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 

% cup milk. 

% cup strained stewed tomatoes. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

Brush casserole with butter substitute, put in a layer of 
breadcrumbs; drain and rinse the oysters and put half over 
breadcrumbs ; season and add a little of the butter. Cover with 
layer of breadcrumbs, the remainder of oysters, seasoning and 
remainder of breadcrumbs; cover with milk; put in hot oven. 
Bake 40 minutes; then cover with seasoned, stewed, strained 
tomatoes. Serve in dish in which it is baked. 



136 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

MASHED POTATO OYSTER PIE 

20 oysters. 

1 quart mashed potatoes. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 
1 teaspoon salt, a little pepper. 

1 cup white sauce. 

Brush bakedish with butter substitute; cover bottom with 
half the mashed potatoes. Drain the oysters and put them on 
potatoes; season and put a little butter substitute on each 
oyster. Cover with potatoes, smooth and brush top with a little 
cold milk. Bake 25 to 40 minutes. Serve with white sauce. 

Note. — No milk is added to the potatoes when mashing. 

MARYLAND OYSTERS 

25 oysters. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash white pepper. 

Drain and rinse the oysters; lay between pieces of cheese- 
cloth. Dip in batter and fry until brown on hot griddle, which 
has been brushed with drippings. Serve at once on hot platter; 
garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Batter 

Sift the flour, baking powder, salt and pepper into bowl; 
add the milk to make a smooth batter; beat the eggs until light; 
add to the flour and beat well. 

Do not stick oysters with a fork; lift the oysters in and out 
with a spoon. Use very little batter. 

OLD-STYLE OYSTER SOUP 

25 medium-sized oysters. 

2 cups finely diced potatoes. 

2 cups milk or 2 cups rice stock. 

1 tablespoon finely cut parsley. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Dash pepper. 

Dash paprika. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

1 teaspoon flour. 

Put the potatoes on in 4 cups boiling water ; boil until ten- 
der; drain and put in top of double boiler in which you have 
the boiling milk and rice stock. Add the oysters, which have 
been put thru the food chopper; then the onion juice, seasoning 
and parsley. Rub the butter substitute and flour until smooth, 
add and boil 5 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 137 



SOUPS 



ENGLISH BEEF SOUP 

1% pounds soup meat. 

1 cup finely diced carrots. 

2 cups dried peas. 

2 cups diced potatoes. 
14 cup finely cut onion. 
34 cup pearl barley. 

2 teaspoons salt. Pinch of red pepper. 

l^ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 1 tablespoon parsley. 

Wash the meat, put in boiler with 3 quarts cold water, boil 
slowly 1 hour; add carrots, onion and barley and later the pota- 
toes, salt, pepper and peas, which have been soaked overnight; 
boil 1 hour, then add Worcestershire sauce and parsley. Re- 
move the meat, cut 1 cupful into small cubes. This makes a 
hearty soup. The remainder of the meat can be served 
separately. 

CREAM OF HOMINY SOUP 

1 cup boiled hominy. 

3 cups milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 
1 tablespoon salt. 

1 teaspoon grated onion or 14 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 
Paprika. 

Rub the hominy thru wire strainer; add to hot milk, add 
seasoning and flour. If too granular, add 1 tablespoon of flour 
mixed with the melted butter. Boil 5 minutes. Dust with pa- 
prika and parsley. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP 

2 cups carrots. 2 cups milk. 
1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon flour, i/^ teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut in small pieces, cover with 
boiling water, add % teaspoon salt and boil 20 to 30 minutes or 
until tender. Drain, saving water ; mash thru wire strainer or 
fruit press. Put the milk in top of double boiler ; as soon as it 
boils add the carrots and 2 cups of carrot stock; add the grated 
onion or onion juice, salt and pepper, the butter and flour, 
rubbed together until smooth, and boil 5 minutes; add the 
chopped parsley and serve. 



138 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

LENTIL SOUP 

4 cups lentils. 

2 tablespoons finely cut bacon. 

1 tablespoon finely cut onion. 

1 cup diced potatoes. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Wash the lentils, cover with cold water and soak overnight. 
Drain and rinse. Put on to boil with 8 cups boiling water; boil 
slowly Sy2 hours. Then add the diced potatoes; put the bacon 
and onion in f rypan, fry slowly, but do not brown ; add to the 
lentils and potatoes; boil 30 minutes; add the salt, pepper and 
parsley; mix the flour with a little cold water and add to the 
soup, boil 3 minutes. 

OXTAIL SOUP 

1 oxtail cut in small pieces. 
% cup cut onion. 

% cup finely cut carrot. 

2 tablespoons barley. 
1 cup diced potatoes. 
1 tablespoon salt. 

14 teaspoon white pepper. 

Dash paprika. 

1 teaspoon sweet marjoram. 

1 tablespoon finely cut parsley. 

The oxtail should be chopped at each joint, making the 
pieces from 1 to 2 inches long; wash well in 2 or 3 waters; put 
on with the barley to boil with 2% quarts cold water; boil slowly 
2 hours, then add onion, carrot, salt and pepper; boil 20 min- 
utes. Add potatoes and boil 25 minutes; add paprika, parsley, 
marjoram, caramel, and serve with the pieces of oxtail. Meat 
is not necessary when having this soup, which is both nutritious 
and cheap. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Take the coarse outer stalks, scrub well and cut in %-inch 
lengths. Put into a saucepan; cover with boiling water and 
boil under tender, but do not cover. Drain and save the water. 
Mash the celery thru a colander; return to the water and boil 10 
minutes. Then strain into double boiler and to each cup of the 
celery water add 1 cup of boiling milk. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and to each pint add 1 teaspoon of butter and 1 
teaspoon of flour rubbed together. Boil 5 minutes, and serve 
with a little of the chopped green on top. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 139 

CHICKEN BROTH 

Put the back, neck, wing tips, gizzard, liver and heart on 
with iy2 quarts cold water; add a small piece of onion; cook 
slowly 1^ hours. Add 1 teaspoon salt, dash white pepper, 1 
teaspoon chopped parsley and a little caramel. 

CLEAR SOUP 

Wipe a shinbone with a wet cloth, put in saucepan with 2 
quarts cold water, add a small piece of onion, a small piece of 
carrot, 1 teaspoon salt, a dash of pepper and boil slowly for 1 
hour. You can add 1 tablespoon of caramel to make it a rich 
brown and seasoning to taste. Strain thru a piece of cheese- 
cloth. There should be 6 cupfuls. 

POTATO SOUP 

1 quart potatoes. 

2 cups rice stock. 2 cups milk. 
1 cup finely chopped onion. 

% teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

A little pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter or oleomargarine. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Wash, pare and boil the potatoes, drain and mash; add the 
milk, onion, nutmeg, salt and pepper; mash thru wire strainer; 
then place over fire and add the butter and flour rubbed well 
together until smooth; boil 3 minutes, stirring constantly. 
Sprinkle with the parsley and dust with paprika. 

PUREE OF KIDNEY OR WHITE BEAN 

2 cups beans. 

2 tablespoons finely cut scallions. 

2 tablespoons finely cut bacon or drippings. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

Dash of white pepper. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon thyme. 

Soak the beans in cold water overnight; drain. Put into 
saucepan with boiling water to cover and boil slowly 2 hours 
the onion and bacon, which have been fried until light brown, or 
drippings; boil 15 minutes; add the salt, pepper, parsley, thyme 
and boil 5 minutes. A little thickening can be added to make 
it creamy. 



140 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

LENTIL CHOWDER 

2 cups lentils. 

2 tablespoons finely cut onion. 

1 cup stewed tomatoes. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Wash the lentils and soak overnight; the next day put on 
to boil with 6 cups boiling water ; add the onion and boil slowly 
2 hours, or until very tender. Drain; add the strained tomato, 
salt, pepper, butter and parsley; mix well and boil 3 minutes. 

PEPPER POT 

1 pound boiled tripe. 

2 cups diced raw potatoes. 
2 cups dumplings. 

2 cups diced carrots. 

% cup finely cut onion. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Yg teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespoon finely cut parsley or celery top. 

1 tablespoon dried sweet marjoraili. 

Wash, scald, drain and cut the tripe in i^-inch dices; put in 
1 quart of stock; add potatoes, onions and boil 30 minutes; add 
vegetable stock to make 2 quarts, then add the seasoning, flavor- 
ing and dumplings; boil 10 minutes. 

Dumplings are made as follows : Sift 1 cupful flour, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 14 teaspoon salt into bowl; add enough 
cold milk to hold together. Dust board with flour and roll out 
14 inch thick; cut with knife into i/4-inch strips and cut cross- 
wise again, making the dumplings before boiling 14 inch square. 

FISH CHOWDER 

1 pound steakfish. 

1 quart diced white potatoes. 

1 cup cut onions. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

1 cup cracker or dried breadcrumbs. 

2 cups rice stock or milk or half stock and half milk. 
2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons salt. 

Ys teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. 

Boil and pick the fish into small pieces ; add to the potatoes 
and onions, which have been boiled until tender in very little 
water. Put drippings in pan, add the flour, stir until smooth, 
then add to the potatoes "and fish. Add rice and seasoning; 
just before serving add crumbs and parsley. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 141 



FISH 



FISH WITH RICE, ONIONS AND CURRY SAUCE 

Steakfish or any other fish from which the bones have been 
removed can be used. 

2y2 pounds trimmed fish. 
1 cup rice. 

1 quart small onions or cut onions. 

2 cups tomato pulp. 

y2 cup chopped green peppers or pimento. 
1 tablespoon curry powder or 1 teaspoon dry yellow mustard, 
mustard. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

2 tahlespoons oleomargarine. 

1 teaspoon salt or salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil and blanch the rice as usual; spread on hot platter, 
cover the center of rice w ith the fish that has been seasoned and 
fried nice and brown. Peel and boil the onions in a very little 
water with a little salt until tender and put them around the 
rice and fish. Cover with sauce made as follows : 

Put oil or oleomargarine into small saucepan, add green 
peppers, cook a few minutes, then add flour and mix until 
smooth. Add 1 cup of stock in which the onions were cooked, the 
curry, which is mixed with a little cold water, and boil. Add 
the tomato pulp. It must be the consistency of thick gravy. 
Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

FISH CUTLETS, TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups cold fish. 

1 cup thick, white sauce. 
1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoon chopped onions. 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 
^ teaspoon paprika. 

1 egg- 

Breadcrumbs or coarse cornmeal. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Remove all skin and bone from fish; break into small 
pieces; add sauce and seasoning. Spread on plate until cold 
and firm. Take up 1 tablespoon in floured hands; mold into 
cone shapes or oblong; dip in egg, which has been beaten with 1 
tablespoon of milk. Be sure the cutlet is covered with egg. 
Then dip in breadcrumbs or cornmeal and fry in hot drippings 
or oil. The cutlets can be made and dipped in the morning. 
Then all one needs to do is to fry them at dinner time. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 



142 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH 'AMERICAN 

ESCALLOPED FISH 

2 cups any fish after boiling. 

1 cup fresh breadcrumbs. 

2 cups cream sauce. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

2 tablespoons finely cut parsley. 
2 teaspoons salt. 

14 teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 teaspoons butter or oleomargarine. 

Brush earthenware dish with butter; sprinkle with half 
the breadcrumbs, then cover with the flaked fish, from which 
all skin and bone have been removed, then the remainder of 
breadcrumbs. Cover with cream sauce to which you have added 
the onion, salt, pepper, paprika, half the parsley and Worcester- 
shire sauce. Bake uncovered for 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 
Sprinkle with parsley. The cream sauce is made as usual. 



FILET OF FLOUNDER, TOMATO SAUCE 

Remove all skin and bone from a flounder. A 2-pound 
flounder will cut into 8 pieces. It is best cut into small pieces 
to remove the skin. 

2 pounds flounder. 

1 egg. 1 cup breadcrumbs. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 

Wash and dry fish on piece of cheesecloth ; dust with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour; dip in egg, which has been beaten 
with 1 tablespoon cold milk; then dip in breadcrumbs; fry in 
deep, hot fat; drain on paper. 



FISH HASH WITH POTATOES 

If there is any left-over fish, remove all skin and bone and 
pick into small pieces. To each % cup of fish add 1 cup cold 
boiled potatoes, chopped fine. Put a tablespoon of chopped 
onion in drippings, fry a few minutes, then add potato and fish. 
Hash same as hashed brown potatoes; add salt, pepper and 
finely chopped parsley to taste. If too dry add a little milk. 
This makes a very good dish. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 143 

CODFISH LOAF, TOMATO SAUCE 

1 package shredded codfish. 

1 quart mashed potatoes. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

% teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

Put the shredded codfish into bowl; cover with boiling 
water and let stand until cool ; then press until dry and add to 
the hot mashed potatoes; mix well, and add the cream sauce, 
onion, paprika. Beat all well together until light, the same as 
mashed potatoes. 

Brush bakedish with melted butter substitute and put in 
mixture; rough the top with fork; place in oven and bake 25 
minutes or until brown. 



CODFISH CAKES, TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups salt codfish. 

1 quart mashed potatoes. 

y2 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 
34 teaspoon pepper. 

2 teaspoons butter or butter substitute. 

Wash and soak the codfish 20 minutes in cold water. Put 
on slow fire in fresh, cold water, and bring to the boiling point; 
remove all bones and put thru the food chopper; add the mashed 
potatoes, onion, butter substitute, pepper and half the milk; 
mix and form into cakes, with floured hands. Fry a nice brown 
on both sides in a little drippings. 



BAKED SALMON LOAF 

1 can salmon. 
1 quart mashed potatoes. 
1 cup cream sauce. 
% teaspoon paprika. 
1 teaspoon grated onion. 
1 teaspoon butter. 

Mix the salmon and mashed potatoes; add the cream sauce, 
onion and paprika ; beat all well together. Brush bakedish with 
melted butter and put mixture in; rough top with fork; place 
in oven and bake 25 minutes or until brown. 



144 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CREAMED CANNED SALMON ON RICE 

1 cup cream sauce. Parsley. 
1 can salmon. 1 cup rice. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

The rice is washed well, boiled in 4 quarts of water for 25 
minutes, drained and blanched and spread on platter, sprinkled 
with salt. Place the can of salmon in boiling water and boil 15 
minutes, open and place in center of rice. The cream sauce is 
made as usual and poured over the fish ; sprinkle with parsley. 

SALMON CREOLE 

1 cup salmon. 1 cup rice. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 

1 cup canned tomatoes. 
% cup cut onion. 

2 teaspoons salt. 2 teaspoons sugar. 
1/^ chopped green pepper. 

Ys teaspoon paprika. Parsley. 

The rice is boiled, blanched and drained as usual ; sprinkle 
with salt. Sauce is made as follows : 

Put the fat, onion and pepper in pan; add the tomatoes; 
season to taste and fry until well done, but not too brown ; add 
V2 cup rice stock; boil 3 minutes; add rice; mix well; put on 
chop plate. 

The salmon is heated in can and placed on center of rice; 
sprinkle all with chopped parsley and garnish with slices of 
lemon. One teaspoon of curry powder or dry mustard can be 
added to the sauce if desired. 



SALMON CROQUETTES 

1 cup salmon. 

1 cup white sauce. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped green pepper. 

% teaspoon pepper. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 eggs. 1/2 cup breadcrumbs. 

Drain the salmon, remove all skin and bone, chop fine, add 
sauce and seasoning; mix well and spread on platter; set aside 
until cold and stiff. Take a spoonful in hands and mold into 
croquettes; roll in egg and then in breadcrumbs; fry in hot fat. 
Serve with sliced tomato sauce; or the mixture can be baked in 
custard cups, turned out and served as if fried. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 145 

DEVILED SALMON 

1 cup salmon. 

2 cups cream sauce. 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 tablespoons grated onion or nutmeg. 
2 tablespoons chopped green pepper. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

34 teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon butter or butter substitute. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 

Boil the can of fish for 15 minutes, open and remove all skin 
and bone. Put the flake in bowl; add the cream sauce, onion, 
parsley, pepper, salt and paprika and Worcestershire sauce; 
mix lightly, so as not to break the fish. Brush shallow earthen 
dish with drippings, fill with fish and cover with breadcrumbs ; 
bake in moderate oven 30 minutes; serve in dish in which 
it is baked. 



MEATS 



BEANS WITH PORK CHOPS 

1 pound beans. 

1 pound pork chops (5 to pound). 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespoon molasses. 

Soak the beans 24 hours, boil slowly from 3 to 4 hours. 
Some beans will cook tender in less than an hour. It is always 
best to be on the safe side ; therefore, put them on early. If ten- 
der in 1 hour, put on back of stove until ready to serve; then 
drain and put into shallow pan ; season to taste and place pork 
chops on top. Bake from 30 to 45 minutes after adding 1 table- 
spoon of molasses and 1 cup of bean stock. Season and baste 
the chops. 



146 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BREADED PORE CHOPS 

1 pound loin or rib chops, cut very thin. 

1 egg. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup dry breadcrumbs. 

Salt, pepper and fat or oil for frying. 

The chops must be small, lean and cut very thin. Dust with 
salt, pepper and dip in flour. Then dip in egg, which has been 
beaten with one tablespoon of cold milk; then in breadcrumbs. 
Fry in deep, hot fat. Lay on tissue toweling or brown paper. 
Place in hot oven 10 to 15 minutes. The reason for putting in 
oven is to make sure the pork is well done. If the chops are 
small and cut thin, there will be five chops to the pound. 



PORK CHOPS WITH SWEET POTATOES 

With cold weather one thinks of pork chops or roast pork. 
Nothing is quite so good with pork as sweet potatoes, hominy and 
apple sauce. 

Much depends on how the pork chops are fried. First, they 
should be cut thin. The pan must be very hot, and if chops are 
fat, no dripping is needed. Put chops in the hot pan and keep 
turning constantly imtil well seared on both sides. Reduce the 
heat and fry until well done; the time depends on the thickness 
of chops and the amount of heat. 

The sweet potatoes are boiled with the skins on, then skinned 
and put thru press or ricer on to hot platter. Dust with salt and 
pepper; the chops are put in center and gravy around the potatoes. 
All is sprinkled with parsley. 



ROAST LOIN PORK WITH SAGE DRESSING 

Wipe the loin of pork with wet cloth ; have the bone removed. 
Put into very hot oven for 20 minutes or until well seared. Then 
add 1 teaspoon salt, dash pepper and 1 cup cold water. Roast 
slowly 2 hours. Add water as it is necessary. You must have 2 
cups of gravy. To the pan of gravy add 1 tablespoon flour wet 
with cold water, 1 tablespoon caramel and salt and pepper to taste. 
Add 1 teaspoon sage and boil 2 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 147 

HOMEMADE SAUSAGE 

10 pounds finely chopped pork with a little fat. 
2 tablespoons of salt. 

1 teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons powdered sage. 
Melted pork fat. 

Fry out enough pork fat to make sufficient to pour over the 
jars of sausage. Chop the remaining lean and fat, add the sea- 
sonings and blend them very thoroly with the meat. Pack in 
jars or crocks and pour over the top a thick layer of fat. It is 
best to use jars or crocks that are small enough, so that after the 
sealing of fat is broken they will be used within a few days. 
Keep in a cold place. 

FRIED SAUSAGE 

Cut the sausage into pieces 14 inch thick; put into frypan, 
fry slowly, removing the drippings constantly until cooked 
thru and brown. Place on hot platter and garnish with sprigs 
of parsley. 

MEAT PIE WITH POTATOES 

1 pound stewing beef. 

1 quart small or cut potatoes. 
1/4 cup cut onions. 

2 teaspoons salt. 
Dash paprika. 

2 tablespoons cut parsley. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Put the meat on in 1 quart of water; boil 1 hour; add onion, 
salt and paprika ; boil 30 minutes. Add the potatoes and boil 30 
minutes; mix the flour with a little cold water and add to meat 
and potatoes. Pour in bakedish, sprinkle with parsley and 
cover with dough. Brush with milk and place in hot oven 
20 minutes. 

Dough is made as follows : 
1 cup flour. 
y2 teaspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 tablespoon beef suet put thru food chopper or cut 
very fine. 

34 cup cold milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl, add suet and 
mix well; add cold milk to hold together; put the dough on 
floured plate and pat it the size of top of bakedish. There is no 
bottom crust to this pie. 



148 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FRENCH STEW WITH VEGETABLES 

% pound stewing beef. 

1 quart potatoes. 

y2 cup cut onion. 2 cups carrot. 

1 cup tomatoes. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon caramel. 

1 teaspoon salt. Dash paprika. 

Wipe the beef, cut into 1-inch pieces, put into boiler and add 
% quart of boiling water ; boil slowly 30 minutes ; add the onion 
and carrots, which have been cut small; boil 20 minutes; add 
the potatoes, tomatoes, salt and pepper; boil 25 minutes; mix 
the flour with a little cold water, add and beil 3 minutes ; add 
caramel and parsley. 

SUET DUMPUNGS TO SERVE WITH STEWS 

1 cup finely chopped beef suet. 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
^ teaspoon salt. 

The suet is put thru food chopper, then added to flour, which 
has been sifted with baking powder and salt. Rub together with 
tips of fingers, then add enough cold water to make a stiff dough. 
Take a tablespoon and roll into ball in floured hands. Place in 
colander or strainer over boiling water; steam 1% hours. 

STEWED KIDNEYS 

1 beef kidney. 

2 tablespoons oleomargarine or drippings. 
2 tablespoons finely cut onion. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon salt, pepper to taste. 

1/4 teaspoon powdered mace. 

Slice the kidney into thin pieces; remove all fat and veins, 
put into bowl, cover with warm water and a little salt ; let stand 
1 hour; drain and cover with cold water, put on to boil and boil 
slowly 30 minutes; drain. 

Put fat, onion and kidney into frypan and fry until onion 
is cooked, but not brown ; sprinkle with flour ; stir until each piece 
of kidney has some flour on it, then add 1% cups cold vegetable 
stock or water; stir until it has thickened; add salt, pepper, lemon 
juice and mace; let simmer 15 minutes. 

Make a border of mashed potatoes on hot platter and put the 
kidney in center; sprinkle with parsley and paprika. 

A little catsup or table sauce adds much to the kidney stew. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 149 

FRIED TRIPE 



1 pound boiled tripe. 

1 egg, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, onion. 

r!iit tViP f.vinp info smnll f1m'Tif.v-siv:pH nipr'PR. 



Cut the tripe into small, dainty-sized pieces. Put on to boil 
until very tender ; drain and dry on a piece of cheesecloth ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in flour, then in well-beaten egg, to which 
add 1 tablespoon of milk, and 1 teaspoon of scraped onion; then 
dip in breadcrumbs. Fry in hot drippings or cooking oil. 



PICKLED TRIPE 

1 pound tripe. 
1 cup vinegar. 
1 cup water. 

1 cup sliced onion. 

y2 tablespoon each of whole cloves, allspice and mustard seed. 

2 pieces of mace. 
2 bay leaves. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put vinegar, water and spices on to boil ; boil 15 minutes, pour 
over the tripe, which has been boiled until tender, and cut in very 
thin 1-inch strips ; add sliced onion, mix well and pack into glass 
jars or stone crock. This can be served on shredded lettuce or 
served with border of finely shredded lettuce. 



TRIPE AND OYSTERS 

1 pound boiled tripe. 
15 oysters. 

2 tablespoons butter substitute. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups milk. 

1 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

^ teaspoon pepper. 

Cut the boiled tripe into inch squares, wash and scald. Put 
into saucepan with boiling water to cover and boil slowly 30 min- 
utes; drain and cover with cream sauce. Drain and rinse the 
oysters, put into shallow pan, and bring to a boil very quickly, 
keeping the pan in motion constantly until the gills curl; drain 
and add the tripe. The liquid is used for oyster broth. 

Sauce : Put the butter into saucepan, melt, add the flour and 
mix well, then add the cold milk slowly, stirring until smooth and 
creamy; add the salt, pepper and nutmeg; boil 2 minutes. 



150 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



FRICASSEE RABBIT 

When skinning a rabbit be sure the skin is turned inside 
out, so there will be no fur (hairs) on the meat. 

Rub the meat with coarse towel. Wash in cold water and 
cut the rabbit in 8 pieces; 2 hindquarters, 2 forequarters and 
back in 4 pieces. 

Put 2 tablespoons drippings in Dutch oven or iron boiler. 
When hot, add the pieces of rabbit, which have been seasoned 
and dipped in flour. When nice and brown cover with 2 cups 
of boiling water; add 2 tablespoons cut onion. Cover and cook 
slowly 2 hours. When tender, remove the rabbit, put on platter 
and add to the gravy (there should be 2 cupfuls) 2 tablespoons 
of flour mixed with a little cold water. Boil 5 minutes. Pour 
some of the gravy over the rabbit; the remainder put in gravy 
boat. Garnish platter with candied sweet potatoes and chopped 
parsley. 

FRIED RABBIT 

The small young rabbits are cut same as in foregoing 
recipe, dusted with salt, pepper and flour and put in frypan 
with bacon or a little bacon drippings. The rabbits are browned 
on both sides, then add a half cupful of water or milk, cover and 
set on very slow fire or put in oven 15 or 20 minutes (it must be 
well done). A little more milk may be added to make the de- 
sired amount of gravy. Garnish with parsley or celery tops. 

RABBIT PIE 

Prepare the rabbit and cut into twelve pieces; put on in 
saucepan with enough boiling water to cover, add i/4 cup finely cut 
carrots and cie teaspoon of salt and dash of pepper; cook slowly 
until tender; add one quart of potatoes, which have been diced 
fine; make a biscuit dough and line bakedish; pour in rabbit and 
potatoes. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, cover with crust and 
brush top with a little cold milk; bake 30 minutes or until brown. 

How to make crust: 

iy2 cups flour. 

iy2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 tablespoon shortening. 

1/^ teaspoon salt, l^ cup milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; rub in shorten- 
ing very lightly, add milk to form a dough; divide and use half 
for bottom and half for top. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 151 

SMOTHERED RABBIT 

Skin and remove the head and neck, wash very carefully. Be 
sure there is no fur on the meat (often in skinning the hairs get 
on,, and they are troublesome to get off) . Cut the rabbit down the 
back, then cut in six pieces, two hindquarters, two center or loin 
cuts and two forequarters. Wipe with piece of cheesecloth, dust 
with salt, pepper and flour, put one tablespoon of bacon drippings 
in Dutch oven, heavy boiler or iron frypan that has a fitted lid. 
If there are no bacon drippings use 2 or 3 slices of bacon and 1 
tablespoon of cut onion; add the rabbit and slightly sear; add a 
little water, and from time to time there must be a little water 
added so the rabbit will not brown and to have a cupful of thick- 
ened gravy when finished. 

Have about 4 cupfuls of mashed potatoes and make a ring 
around the platter with the potatoes, and put the rabbit in cen- 
ter, pour gravy over rabbit and sprinkle all with chopped celery 
tops and parsley. 



SCRAPPLE 

y2 pig's head or set of pig's feet. 
2 cups cut onion. 

2 tablespoons cooking salt. 
y2 teaspoon pepper. 

6 cups cornmeal. 

3 cups buckwheat flour. 

1 teaspoon powdered thyme. 

1 teaspoon powdered summer savory. 

1 teaspoon powdered sage. 

Remove eyes and teeth from pig's head, or have the feet 
cleaned correctly. Wash well and put in boiler with 10 quarts 
of cold water. Add onion and boil until the meat and skin fall 
from the bones. Remove all the meat and chop or cut it quite 
fine. Strain the stock, so there will be no small bones ; return 
stock and meat to boiler. When boiling, add the cornmeal 
very slowly, stirring constantly, and boil 1 hour. Add salt, 
pepper and buckwheat flour slowly, stirring constantly. Be 
careful the flour does not lump. Add thyme, summer savory 
and sage; boil 30 minutes, stirring often, so it will not burn. 
Pour into square pans and set in cold place 2 to 3 days. Remove 
the fat that forms on top and use it to brush griddle on which 
the scrapple is fried after it is cold. 

This will keep a month in a cold place. Always dust with a 
little flour before frying. 



152 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

VEAL SHOULDER WITH BROWN POTATOES 

Purchase a 6 to 7 pound shoulder of veal, have the butcher 
cut a pocket in the meat, wipe with a piece of cheesecloth; fill and 
sew up. Place in roast pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper; put 
into hot oven and roast 1 hour, adding water as it is needed; 
there must be 2 cupfuls of gravy when finished; add the white 
potatoes, which have been washed and pared and parboiled; roast 
30 minutes. Remove the meat to a hot platter, place the potatoes 
around the edge and pour the gravy around or serve in a gravy 
boat; garnish with sprigs of parsley. 



Gravy 

Add 2 tablespoons of flour wet with a little cold water to 
pan; add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and 1 
tablespoon of caramel. 

Filling 

3 cups stale bread. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped onion. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

2 tablespoons parsley. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon pepper. 
Dash paprika. 

Put the drippings and onion into pan ; add the bread, which 
has been soaked in cold water and pressed dry between the 
hands; then add the salt, pepper, parsley and paprika; mix 
well and keep stirring until it has fried dry. Fill pocket 
and close. 



VEAL CUTLET, RICE AND PEAS 

When buying veal cutlet always have it cut thin. Cut into 
pieces (a medium-sized veal cutlet will make 6 to 8 pieces) ; dust 
with salt, pepper and flour; dip in egg (1 egg beaten with 1 table- 
spoon of milk), then in breadcrumbs. Fry in deep hot fat. 

In the center of the platter put the correctly boiled and 
molded rice, placing the cutlet against the rice and the green 
peas around the edge. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 153 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 pound beans. 

14 pound salt pork. 

% teaspoon diy mustard. 

1 level tablespoon salt. 

2 tablespoons molasses. 
14 teaspoon white pepper. 

Wash and soak the beans overnight. Put half into bean pot, 
wash the salt pork and place in center ; then add the rest of the 
beans, salt, pepper, mustard, molasses and 4 cups of cold water; 
cover, put into slow oven and bake 8 hours. Add more water 
if needed; they must not be dry. The mustard is a matter of 
taste and can be omitted. 



BAKED LIMA BEANS 

1 pound lima beans. 

14 pound salt pork or bacon. 

2 tablespoons molasses. 
1 tablespoon salt. 

14 teaspoon pepper. 

Wash and soak the beans overnight. Put on in plenty of 
water and boil until tender ; some beans will take longer than 
others. Drain the beans and put in bakepan with salt, pepper, 
molasses and bacon, which has been cut in thin strips and laid 
over top ; put enough water to come up to top of beans. Put in 
moderate oven for 1 hour or until they are nice and brown. 



BOILED WHITE BEANS, SUPREME 

1 quart white beans. 

1 tablespoon finely cut bacon or drippings. 

1 tablespoon finely cut scallions. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

Soak the beans overnight; change the water in the morn- 
ing; drain, put into saucepan, cover with boiling water and boil 
slowly 2 hours uncovered ; drain. Put the bacon and scallions into 
small frypan and fry slowly until light brown (not too hard) ; 
pour over the beans, add the salt and pepper and mix well. 
Serve hot. You can also add a little vinegar if you like it. 



154 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BAKED BEAN PIE 

1 large can baked beans. 
1 tablespoon scraped onion. 
1 teaspoon salt. Pepper to taste. 
1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

Drain the beans, add the seasoning and flavoring and line 
the baking dish with half the dough, made by the recipe which 
follows. Put in the beans, cover with other half of dough; 
brush top with milk and bake in hot oven for 30 minutes. 



Dough 

W2 cups flour. 

1% teaspoons baking powder. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon shortening. 

Sift dry ingredients into bowl, add shortening and rub 
lightly; add enough cold water to make a soft dough. 



BEANS. SPANISH STYLE 

2 cups kidney beans. 

2 cups tomatoes. 

1 cup finely cut onion. 

y2 cup pimento or green pepper. 

3 tablespoons butter, oleomargarine or oil. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

Soak the beans overnight, drain, cover with boiling water; 
boil slowly 1% hours or until tender. Some beans take longer 
than others; drain and add the sauce, which is made as follows: 

Put the butter or oil in frypan; add onion and pimento, 
and fry until tender, but not brown ; then add the tomato, salt 
and flour, which have been mixed with a little cold water; boil 5 
minutes. After pouring the sauce over the drained beans, sim- 
mer 10 minutes. Serve with border of correctly cooked 
boiled rice. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 155 

BEAN CROQUETTES 

1 cup beans. 

2 cups boiled rice. 

1 tablespoon oleomargarine or drippings. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

2 tablespoons onion juice or chopped scallions. 
l^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

Dash white pepper. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

1 tablespoon finely cut parsley. 

legg. 

Put the 4 cups of beans and rice thru food chopper, add the 
oleomargarine or drippings, salt, pepper, nutmeg, onion juice, 
Worcestershire sauce, parsley and mix well. Spread on platter 
to cool. Take spoonful into floured hands and form into cone 
shapes; dip in egg (1 egg beaten with 1 tablespoon cold milk), 
then in breadcrumbs and fry in deep fat. 



FRIED MUSH WITH SAUCE 

8 slices cornmeal mush, i/^ inch thick. 

2 cups strained and seasoned tomatoes, not thickened. 

2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Fry the mush nicely; put on platter that can be put in oven ; 
pour over the hot tomato sauce and sprinkle with the cheese, 
put in hot oven 10 minutes. Sprinkle with parsley. 



STEWED LENTILS 

Wash 2 cups of lentils in cold water; soak overnight. 
Drain; cover with boiling water and boil slowly 2^^ hours; 
drain. Put them in top of double boiler and add 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 teaspoon salt and a dash of 
white pepper; mix well and let stand 10 minutes before serving. 
You can use 2 tablespoons finely cut bacon, fried, instead of butter. 
butter 



156 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

LENTILS AND RICE 

3 cups lentils. 

1 cup rice. 1 cup tomato. 
% cup finely cut bacon. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup vegetable or rice stock. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper. 

Dash paprika. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

Wash and soak the lentils overnight, drain, cover with boil- 
ing water and boil 1 hour, or until tender (it depends on the age 
of the lentils). They can be boiled and drained at any time and 
reheated. Sprinkle with salt and dust with pepper, put in cen- 
ter of plate or chop plate. Wash, boil and blanch 1 cup of rice 
as usual, dust with salt and arrange around the lentils ; cover 
the rice with the sauce, sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

Sauce: Put the bacon in the pan with the onion and fry 
slowly, but do not brown; add the flour, mix well, then add the 
strained tomatoes and cup of onion or rice stock, i^^ teaspoon 
salt, pepper and paprika. Boil until smooth. A little Wor- 
cestershire sauce adds to the flavor of the sauce. 



VEGETABLES 



CARROTS AND PEAS EN CASSEROLE 

2 bunches (1 quart) cut carrots. 

1 can green peas. 

2 tablespoons finely cut onion. 
1 tablespoon oil or drippings. 

1 tablespoon finely cut parsley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Wash, scrape and cut the carrots in fine dice; put in sauce- 
pan and cover with boiling water; boil 35 minutes or until ten- 
der; drain and save the stock for the sauce; add the peas; put 
into casserole with the carrots, cover with sauce, mix well; 
cover and place in moderate oven 25 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 157 

CAULIFLOWER A LA FOCH 

Remove the center of the cauliflower, place in bowl of cold 
water, stem end up, and let it stand 30 minutes. Remove the 
green leaves from the outside, put them in plenty of boiling 
water and boil without a cover until tender. Some leaves will 
require 30 minutes and others 45 minutes or longer. 

When the leaves are tender, pour into a colander and drain 
them. Chop fine, and to each 3 or 4 cupfuls of leaves add % 
of a cupful of white sauce. Mix well and put in a round dish. 

The flower is put into saucepan with the stem down, cover 
with boiling water and boil 20 to 25 minutes without a cover. 
When tender remove in one piece with a skimmer and place in the 
center of the creamed leaves. Put the remaining quarter cupful 
of sauce over the top of flower and dust with paprika. 



ESCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER 

Wash and boil the cauliflower until tender, put in bakedish, 
cover with cream sauce and layer of breadcrumbs and bake in 
oven until brown. 

Sauce 

Melt 1 tablespoon butter substitute in pan, add 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon white pepper and mix thoroly; 
add 1 cup cold milk slowly, stirring until smooth and creamy. 
Cook 3 minutes. 



CAULIFLOWER WITH CHEESE 

1 medium-sized cauliflower. 
1 cup grated sharp cheese. 
1 cup fresh breadcrumbs. 
1 cup milk. 

1 rounded tablespoon flour. 
1 rounded tablespoon butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
Yg teaspoon pepper. 
Faprika to taste. 

Remove the flower from leaves; put in cold water, stem up; 
let stand half hour. Put on in boiling water to cover, with stem 
end down, and boil 20 to 25 minutes. Remove carefully, separate 
the flowerets; put in bakedish; cover with cheese sauce, then 
breadcrumbs ; put in hot oven ; bake 20 minutes. Serve in dish in 
which it is baked. 



158 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CAULIFLOWER, SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

The cauliflower is boiled as usual. Carefully remove and 
cover with HoUandaise sauce and serve at once. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

4 tablespoons pure olive oil or melted butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

2 egg yolks. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Yg teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Put the onion in the vinegar; bring to the boiling point and 
cool. Rub the oil and flour together ; add gradually the water ; stir 
until boiling; add the strained vinegar. Take from the fire; stir 
in gradually the yolks of the eggs. Heat very gently just a 
moment; add the salt and pepper. 

BRAISED CELERY 

Wash and scrape the outside pieces of celery and cut into 
2-inch pieces ; cover with boiling water and boil 20 minutes ; drain, 
put 1 tablespoon of fat, bacon, ham, butter, oil or oleomargarine 
into shallow pan and add the parboiled celery (1 quart to the 
tablespoon of fat) . Place over hot fire a few minutes, stirring or 
shaking the pan constantly until the celery is slightly browned. 
Season with salt and pepper and add 1 cup of the water in which 
the celery was cooked. Cover the pan and cook slowly 30 minutes; 
add a little flour thickening. Serve on toast and dust with paprika. 

STEWED CELERY 

Wash and cut into i^-inch pieces the coarse outer pieces of 
celery; put into saucepan, cover with boiling water and boil until 
tender; drain and to 1 cup of celery water add 1 tablespoon flour 
and 1 tablespoon butter, rubbed together until smooth. Add % 
teaspoon salt and a dash white pepper, pour over the celery and 
mix well. Boil 10 minutes. 

CELERY AU GRATIN 

Clean the celery, cut into i^-inch pieces, put into saucepan 
and cover with boiling water. Boil 30 to 40 minutes or until 
tender in uncovered pan. Drain, pour into bakedish brushed with 
a little butter; pour over the cream sauce and cover with 2 table- 
spoons grated cheese, or you can add the cheese to the sauce. 
Bake in hot oven until brown. Save the celery water for soup or 
basting meats. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 159 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS, CREAM SAUCE 

1 quart Brussels sprouts. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup cold milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

Wash and clean the Brussels sprouts; lay in cold water 1 
hour ; drain. Put over fire in saucepan of boiling water and boil 
35 to 40 minutes without a cover. Drain and cover with 
a sauce. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS, HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

1 quart Brussels sprouts. 
1 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup cold milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash white pepper. 

Wash and clean the Brussels sprouts; lay in cold water 1 
hour; drain. Put over fire in saucepan of boiling water and boil 
35 to 40 minutes without a cover. Drain and cover with a sauce. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter or butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon of flour. 2 eggs. 

y2 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon pepper. 

2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. 
1 tablespoon chopped onion. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Put the onion in the vinegar, bring to the boiling point and 
cool. Rub butter or butter substitute and flour together, add 
gradually the water, stir until boiling and add tSe strained 
vinegar. Take from the fire ; stir in gradually the beaten yolks of 
eggs. Heat very gently just a moment; add the salt and pepper; 
then strain. 

ONION CHOWDER 

1 quart of onions. 

2 cups milk. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

1 teaspoon flour. 

2 teaspoons finely cut parsley. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper or paprika. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Wash, pare and cut the onions in small pieces; put in sauce- 
pan and cover with boiling water ; boil until the onions are very 
tender (the water will have boiled down to about 3 cups), add 
milk, butter substitute and flour, which have been rubbed to- 
gether until smooth; boil 3 minutes; add salt, pepper and 
parsley. 



160 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

ESCALLOPED ONIONS 

1 quart onions. 

1 tablespoon butter or substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 

11/2 teaspoons salt. 

Dash white pepper, % cup breadcrumbs. 

Put onions into pan of cold water, peel and cut into i^-inch 
rings. Put into saucepan of boiling water and boil 20 minutes 
or until tender. Drain, saving stock for use later. Brush bake- 
dish with butter, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, put in onions, 
pour over the cream sauce, cover with breadcrumbs and bake in 
hot oven until light brown. 



SMOTHERED ONIONS FOR UVER OR STEW 

To smother onions without fat: Peel the onions and cut 
into thin slices, the round way, so that when cooked they will 
separate and be in rings. Brush bakedish or casserole with oil 
or drippings ; put in onions ; season to taste ; cover and put into 
moderate oven about 1 hour, or until onions are tender. They 
will be a light brown. 

Note: If the onions are pared in cold water and sliced at 
once, no water is needed, but if onions are pared dry, then add 
2 tablespoons of water to each quart of onions. 



CREAMED TURNIPS 

1 quart turnips. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. Dash pepper. 

Wash, pare and cut the turnips into i/^-inch dice. Put on in 
boiling water, enough to cover, and boil until tender. Drain and 
pour over the cream sauce ; mix well. 



Cream Sauce 

Put the butter into saucepan and when melted add the flour, 
mix well and add the cold milk slowly; stir until smooth and 
creamy; add the salt and pepper; boil 2 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 161 

MASHED YELLOW TURNIPS 

Wash and pare 1 quart of yellow turnips; put on to boil 
with boiling water enough to cover and boil until tender. 
Drain, mash and add 1 teaspoon salt and a dash of white 
pepper. 

SWEET POTATOES EN CASSEROLE 

1 quart parboiled sweet potatoes. 

y2 cup brown sugar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon drippings, butter or butter substitute. 

1 level teaspoon cinnamon. 

^ teaspoon ginger. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

Boil potatoes 10 minutes; skin and cut into ^-inch slices. 
Put in casserole, cover with sugar; add seasoning and flavor. 
Put drippings on top and cover and put in moderate oven 1 
hour; then remove cover and brown slightly. Serve in dish in 
which they are baked. 

DEVILED SWEET POTATOES 

Select long, large-sized sweet potatoes, wash and dry, then 
rub with a little drippings or oil. Put in hot oven and bake until 
tender. With sharp knife cut in half the long way. Remove 
the potato from the shell with silver fork into warm bowl, add 
salt and pepper to taste. 

To each cup of potato add 1 teaspoon very finely chopped 
parsley and a little melted butter. Mix well and fill the shell 
with mixture. Round the top and rough with fork. Brush top 
with w§ll-beaten egg and place in hot oven and brown nicdy. 

If directions are followed these are very attractive. 

PANNED SWEET POTATOES 

1 quart sweet potatoes. 

1 tablespoon butter or oleomargarine. 

% teaspoon salt. 

ys teaspoon white pepper. 

Wash, boil the potatoes, skin, cut into slices % inch thick; 
brush bakedish with a little butter or oleomargarine; lay the 
sweet potatoes in ; dust each layer with salt and pepper, sugar 
and a little butter or oleomargarine; there should be about 3 
layers; add 2 tablespoons water and bake 20 minutes. 



162 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

SWEET POTATO PUFFS 

y^ peck sweet potatoes. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Wash and boil the sweet potatoes 20 minutes; drain, when 
cold, skin and mash. Add salt, pepper,, parsley and 1 teaspoon 
butter and beat until light. Brush 6 muffin tins with butter, fill 
with the sweet potatoes and bake until a light brown. 



POTATO CROQUETTES 

1 quart potatoes. 

% teaspoon salt. Dash pepper. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon butter. Breadcrumbs. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon milk. 

Commeal or breadcrumbs. 

Wash and boil the potatoes 20 minutes. Drain, when cool, 
skin and put thru the potato ricer, fruit press or mash thru 
strainer; add salt, pepper, parsley and butter, mix well and 
beat until light. Shape into croquettes, roll in cornmeal, then 
dip in egg which has been mixed, then dip in breadcrumbs, fry in 
deep, hot fat until brown. 



POTATOES EN CASSEROLE 

% peck potatoes. 

2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped bacon or ham fat. 

1 level tablespoon of salt. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley or celery tops. 

Paprika. 

Wash, pare and cut the potatoes in 14-inch slices ; put in cas- 
serole; cover with milk; add salt and top with bacon or ham fat. 
Cover and place in moderately hot oven 1 hour (the potatoes must 
be very tender and fall apart when taken out) . 

Sprinkle with parsley and dust with paprika. Serve in dish 
in which it is baked. This makes eight helpings. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 163 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES 

2 cups tomatoes. 2 cups breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 

Wash, scald and skin the tomatoes; brush the baking dish 
with a little butter substitute; put a layer of breadcrumbs on bot- 
tom, then a layer of tomato, sprinkle with sugar, salt and pepper, 
another layer of breadcrumbs, then tomatoes, seasoning and 
breadcrumbs on top ; dot top with butter substitute. Bake in mod- 
erate oven 30 minutes. 



FRIED TOMATOES 

4 tomatoes. I/2 cup flour. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons drippings. 
1 cup milk. 

Cut the tomatoes into slices, sprinkle with sugar and salt; 
dip in flour, put into hot drippings; fry very slowly until 
browned nicely on both sides. Remove the tomatoes, add the 
milk and boil a few minutes. Mix 1 tablespoon flour with a lit- 
tle cold water, add and boil until thick. Serve on rice or 
macaroni. 



BAKED PEPPERS. NUT FILLING 

8 even-sized peppers. 

3 cups boiled rice. 

1 cup peanut butter. 

8 tablespoons finely chopped green peppers. 

1 tablespoon chopped celery top. 

2 tablespoons catsup or table sauce, 
legg. 

Wash and cut the tops from the peppers, remove the seeds, 
rinse and dry. Fill with mixture made as follows : 

Mix rice, peanut butter and the pieces of green pepper, 
which have been cut from top and chopped fine, and seasoning. 
Fill into peppers, rounding the tops. Set in bakedish; brush 
tops with beaten egg. Put in hot oven and bake 25 to 30 minutes. 

Note.— Cut the ends so they will stand straight in bakedish. 



164 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



POULTRY 



ROAST TURKEY, OYSTER FILLING, GIBLET GRAVY 

After the fowl is thoroly cleaned, run a long skewer thru 
the body at the thighs, holding them close to the body, another 
thru the long wings, holding them close to the body. If you do 
not have long skewers, run a piece of cord around the body at the 
thighs and wings. 



Oyster Filling 

30 oysters. 

4 cups breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

34 teaspoon white pepper. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoons butter or butter substitute. 

Drain and rinse the oysters with cold water. Put butter 
into saucepan with oysters and bring to a boiling point; add the 
breadcrumbs and the seasoning; mix carefully so as not to 
break the oysters. Fill into turkey and sew it up. Put into 
very hot oven 20 minutes or until it is well seared, then baste 
with 2 cupfuls of cold water and dust with 1 tablespoon salt 
and a little pepper; reduce the heat and roast slowly 20 min- 
utes to the pound, basting quite often. 



Giblet Gravy 

Boil the gizzard and chop the raw liver and heart; put thru 
food chopper; then put in pan after removing turkey and some 
of the drippings. Add 1 tablespoon onion juice and cook the 
liver and heart 5 minutes, stirring all the time; then add the 
boiled and chopped gizzard ; 2 tablespoons flour mixed with a 
little cold water, 2 cups cold water and 2 tablespoons caramel ; 
boil 5 minutes and add a little parsley. Thyme may be added ; 
that is a matter of taste. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 165 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

Have a 4 or 5 pound chicken ; clean and cut as for stewing, 
put in saucepan, cover with boiling water, add 2 tablespoons cut 
onion, 1 level tablespoon salt, a little pepper and a small piece 
of whole mace and 5 or 6 cloves. Boil slowly until chicken is 
tender. Remove chicken; take off all skin and fat and cut into 
small pieces. Strain the stock; set away to cool. When cold 
remove the fat. 

To each quart of stock add 1 tablespoon of gelatin (granu- 
lated) that has been soaked in a little cold water. Add to the boil- 
ing stock ; stir until dissolved. Remove from fire ; add the chicken 
and 14 cup stuffed olives, cut in rings. If you care to, add 1 cup 
of mushrooms, cut in rings, and 2 tablespoons of finely chopped 
green pepper. 

Rinse bakepan in cold water; put in mixture and put in 1 
hard-boiled egg cut in slices. Set away to cool. This should be 
made the day before. Serve on a bed of shredded lettuce and 
garnish with stuffed olives. More seasoning can be added if de- 
sired, also mayonnaise or salad dressing of choice. 



CREAMED CHICKEN IN POPOVERS 

Cut the left-over chicken into pieces ; also pick the chicken 
from the backbone and wing tips. Put into the cream sauce, 
heat thoroly, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Cut the 
tops of the popovers off; put in a spoon of the creamed chicken; 
return the tops and place in the oven a few minutes. 

Sauce 

Put 1 tablespoon butter into saucepan; melt; add 1 table- 
spoon flour; mix well; and then add 1 cup of cold milk slowly; 
stir until smooth and creamy, and add 1 teaspoon salt and a 
dash of white pepper. 



STEWED CHICKEN 

Cut the breast into 4 parts, joint the thighs and wings, put 
into boiler with boiling water to cover, a small onion and boil 
slowly 2 hours ; add 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons flour mixed 
with a little cold water and boil 5 minutes. Serve on a platter 
with border of potatoes and gravy. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 



166 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

ROAST CHICKEN A LA MERION 

Select a 4i^ to 5 pound roasting chicken, clean and prepare 
the same as usual. Roast in very hot oven 20 minutes until 
well seared; then add 2 cups of cold water and roast 20 minutes 
to the pound if the chicken is a young one. 



Filling 
Com and Potato Filling 

2 cups canned corn. 

2 cups mashed potatoes. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped celery top. 

1 level tablespoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespoon drippings or butter substitute. 

Put the drippings and onioii into pudding pan over fire; 
add the potatoes, cook a few minutes, add seasoning, flavoring 
and the corn, which has been put thru the food chopper, or use 
the very finely crushed corn. Leave it on slow fire about 5 min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Fill the chicken and sew up the vent. 
The craw cavity can be filled. This filling can be made the day 
before and left in a cold place. 



SMOTHERED GUINEA FOWL 

Clean the guinea fowl the same as chicken, split down the 
back and clean the gizzard, liver and heart. Put 2 tablespoons 
drippings in Dutch oven (iron boiler or pan that can be 
covered), fry a light brown, then add the guinea, skin side down; 
sear and turn and sear on the inside ; add 1 cup boiling water 
and simmer slowly 1 hour; then add 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
pepper, dash paprika, 1 tablespoon finely cut onion, 1 table- 
spoon finely cut celery; another cup of water and let simmer 
slowly another hour, turning the fowl 2 or 3 times. 

When tender, add to the gravy 1 tablespoon of flour wet 
with a little cold water; and if it is not brown, add 1 tablespoon 
of caramel. There should be 2 cupf uls of gravy when finished. 
Serve on center of hot platter, pour the gravy over the fowl 
and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 167 

ROAST GOOSE WITH POTATO FILLING 

7 to 8 pound goose. 
^ peck white potatoes. 

2 tablespoons fat. 

3 tablespoons grated onion. 

1 tablespoon poultry seasoning. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped celery top or parsley. 

I egg. 

Singe, wash and clean the goose, stuff with potato and 
giblet filling which is made as follows : 

Boil and mash the potatoes, add to the pan in which the fat, 
onion and chopped giblet have been cooked; add seasoning and 
well-beaten egg. Mix well and cook until quite dry, then fill 
into turkey. Sew up vent and sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
flour. Put a little fat on top, place in very hot oven. Baste 
quite often. After it is browned turn so that breast will be at 
bottom, that the meat will not be dry. 



SALADS 



APPLE AND BANANA SALAD 

2 cups finely cut apples. 

2 bananas. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 

1 cup mayonnaise. 

Skin, scrape and slice the bananas, mix with the apples. 
Line bowl with lettuce leaves, put in the fruit, cover with lemon 
juice. Serve with 1 cup of mayonnaise over the top. Garnish 
with 4 or 5 small pieces of red jelly. 

CELERY FILLED WITH CHEESE 

Season cream cheese with salt to taste; mix and fill into 
small hollows of celery tips. Dust with paprika and very finely 
chopped parsley. These are very attractive if served on the 
salad, whether served individually or around the edge of a 
large bowl. 



168 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

DATE AND ORANGE SALAD 

1 cup washed, stoned and finely cut dates. 

1 cup finely cut tart apples. 

2 cups orange pulp. 

% cup finely cut celery. 

% cup cocoanut. 

V2 cup cream dressing. 

Cut the orange in half and remove the pulp with sharp 
spoon so as not to break the fruit. Saw-tooth the skins with 
sharp knife. Mix the fruit together, fill into the orange cups; 
place on lettuce; put a dessertspoonful of cream dressing in 
top; sprinkle with cocoanut. The dressing, celery and lettuce 
may be omitted and fruit served as a dessert. 

LETTUCE WITH EGG DRESSING 

4 cups shredded lettuce. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

% cup French dressing. 

% cup finely cut scallions or chives. 

Line bowl with lettuce, cut the hard-boiled egg in half and 
remove the yolk. Put the white in coarse wire strainer and 
mash. Put around the edge of lettuce. Then rub the yolk 
thru and add the scallions. Put in center of lettuce. Extra 
French dressing can be served if desired. This makes a very 
tasty salad for those who like onions. The onion can be left out 
and % teaspoon mustard mixed with eggs and dressing if 
preferred. 



DESSERTS 



APPLE DAINTY 

1 quart apples. 

1 cup brown sugar. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

1 cup whipping cream. 

Wash, pare, quarter and core the apples. Brush guernsey 
dish or pietin with the butter, place the apples in and cover 
with the brown sugar; bake until the apples are tender. Lift 
carefully into ice cream glasses or glass bowl and cover with 
the whipped cream; garnish with candied cherries, cut into 
rounds, a few nuts or a few raisins. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 169 

APPLE SNOW 

4 apples or 2 cups apple sauce. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons honey. 

Wash and core the apples, put on in saucepan with 4 table- 
spoons hot water; cover and bring to a boiling point; remove 
the cover and boil until tender ; mash thru strainer. Have the 
whites of eggs beaten dry; add the cold strained apples and 
beat until like snow. Fill into glass dish, garnish with little 
pieces of red tart jelly. Serve with custard. 

Custard 

Put 1 cup of milk on to boil, beat the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 table- 
spoons honey, a pinch of salt and a little grated nutmeg to- 
gether; add to the boiling milk, remove from fire at once so it 
does not separate. This can be prepared on Sunday. 

BANANAS AND CORNSTARCH 

4 bananas. 2 cups milk. 

14 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

Pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoon grated orange peel. 

Put the milk on to boil ; add cornstarch slowly, which has 
been mixed with sugar and salt ; boil 15 minutes ; skin, scrape 
and slifce the bananas, put in glass dish or ice cream glasses, 
pour the hot cornstarch over the bananas, and set in cold place 
for 1 hour. The hot cornstarch brings the flavor out of the 
bananas. Sprinkle top with grated orange peel. 

BANANA PUFF, FRUIT SAUCE 
1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

2 teaspoons oleomargarine or butter. 
4 teaspoons sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

% cup milk. 2 bananas. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add butter 
and rub in very lightly; add milk to make a soft drop dough. 
Brush 4 custard cups with a little melted butter ; put a scant 
tablespoon of dough in bottom, then % a banana and cover with 
another tablespoon of dough. Place in moderate oven 20 to 25 
minutes; turn out into saucedish and serve while warm with 
fruit sauce. 



170 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BANANA SPONGE, CUSTARD SAUCE 

2 bananas. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
% cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

Soak the gelatin in 2 tablespoons cold water for 10 minutes, 
dissolve in 2 cups of boiling water, add the lemon juice and 
sugar, dissolve and set aside to cool. Beat the whites of eggs 
until dry, then add the cooled gelatin, beating until almost 
firm ; add the bananas, which have been pressed thru fruit press 
or coarse strainer; mix and pour into mold or bowl, which has 
been rinsed with cold water. Turn mold into shallow bowl and 
pour custard sauce around. 

Custard Sauce 

Put milk on to boil, beat yolk of egg with 1 tablespoon 
sugar, add to boiling milk, remove from fire, add a little grated 
rind of lemon. Be sure it is cold before serving. 

COCOANUT CORNSTARCH 

2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

Pinch of salt. 1 egg. 

% cup fresh, grated cocoanut. 

Put the milk in top of double boiler, mix the cornstarch and 
salt with a little cold milk, add the beaten yolk of egg and the 
sugar; mix well and add to the boiling milk; boil 15 minutes, 
remove from fire and add the cocoanut. Pour into ice cream 
glasses or glass bowl. Beat the whites of eggs until dry, add 1 
teaspoon granulated sugar; spread on top of glasses, dust with 
pulverized sugar and sprinkle with a little cocoanut. Put the 
glasses in cool oven until the whites are a little brown 
and dry. 

CRANBERRY AND ORANGE DESSERT 

2 cups sweetened cranberry sauce. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 cups finely chopped orange. 

Put the sugar and 1 cup of water on to boil. Boil slowly 5 
minutes, add the cranberries and mash thru fine strainer. 
Allow it to get very cold and have the oranges cold. Put in glass 
bowl. Pour over the cranberry syrup. This makes an attractive 
and tasty dish. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 171 

GRAPE JUICE WITH ORANGE 

1 cup grape juice. 
1 cup finely cut orange. 
1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
1 cup water. 

Pare and slice the oranges fine, put in icebox, with small 
bottle of grape juice. Just before serving put orange in sherbet 
cups or glasses, add the grape juice, which has been diluted with 
cup of water and lemon juice; add sugar if desired. Serve ice 
cold. 

APPLE PUDDING 

3 cups milk. 2 eggs. 
% cup syrup. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 
6 small, thin slices of bread. 

1 cup apple sauce. 
% teaspoon salt. 

y2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Beat the eggs, salt and syrup together, add the milk ; brush 
bakedish with butter substitute, put the buttered bread on dish 
and pour the milk over it. Place in moderate oven, bake until 
firm, then spread top with apple sauce and sprinkle with cinna- 
mon. Serve cold. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

4 apples. 

1% cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon shortening. 1 cup milk. 

6 tablespoons sugar. 

1 teaspoon butter or oleomargarine. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder into bowl ; rub in short- 
ening lightly with tips of fingers; add just enough cold milk to 
form a dough. Place on floured board and roll out % inch thick. 
Divide into 4 parts. Lay on each quarter an apple which has been 
washed, pared and core removed; put 1 teaspoon of sugar in center 
of apple. 

Wet the edges of dough with cold milk and fold around the 
apple,, pressing lightly together. Place in agate pan, sprinkle with 
the remainder of sugar over top and % teaspoon of butter on each 
dumpling; pour the rest of the milk over, and cover with pietin. 
Bake 20 minutes, remove the cover and bake 20 minutes without 
cover. 



172 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

STEAMED DATE PUDDING WITH ORANGE SAUCE 

% cup molasses or brown sugar. 
% cup milk. 

1 cup stoned and chopped dates. 
1^ cups whole wheat flour. 

2 tablespoons butter- 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 egg, pinch of mace. 

Melt the butter, put into bowl with sugar or molasses, milk, 
well-beaten egg, salt and baking powder ; then add the flour and 
chopped dates; mix all well together. Put into mqld which has 
been brushed with butter, cover tight and put into boiler half 
full of water. Boil slowly 2 hours, add water to boiler if needed. 
This is enough for 2 meals for a family of 4; large helpings. 
Remove the pudding to large plate or platter, pour the sauce 
around pudding for garnish. 

FIG PUDDING, LEMON SAUCE 

1 cup suet. 1 cup breadcrumbs. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup sugar. 

^ pound figs. 

% teaspoon cinnamon. 

34 teaspoon ground mace. 

1 teaspoon salt, pinch ground cloves. 

1 cup water. 

Chop the suet; put into bowl; add the breadcrumbs, sugar, 
salt, flour, cinnamon, mace and cloves. Cut the figs into small 
pieces and add; mix thoroly. Then pour the water in slowly 
and mix well. Wet mold or kettle with cold water; put in 
pudding, and boil 2^/^ hours. This can be prepared ahead of 
time, as it will keep two or three days. Serve with lemon sauce. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING 

2 cups cranberries. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

1 cup chopped suet. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 

1/^ cup syrup. 

1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

y2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Wash and cut cranberries in half. Mix all dry ingredients 
together; add enough water to make a stiif mixture, brush 
mold with butter. Put the pudding in and place in boiling water ; 
boil 3% hours. Serve warm with fruit or vanilla sauce. This 
is a very hearty pudding. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 173 

PLUM PUDDING, HARD OR FOAMY SAUCE 

1 cup chopped suet. 
1 cup breadcrumbs. 
1% cups syrup. 
1 cup ftour. 
1 cup seeded raisins. 
1 cup seedless raisins. 

1 cup currants. 

4 tablespoons finely cut citron. 

2 tablespoons finely cut orange peel. 
1 tablespoon finely cut lemon peel. 

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon. 
14 teaspoon ground ginger. 
% teaspoon ground mace. 

14 teaspoon ground cloves. 
14 teaspoon nutmeg. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

% cup grape juice or any juice of choice. 

% cup figs. 

Put the suet, breadcrumbs, flour, baking powder and spices 
and salt into bowl and mix thoroly. Wash and dry the raisins, 
add; then the figs, which have been cut fine, and the citron, 
orange and lemon peel. Add syrup, 1 cup of water and the fruit 
juice and mix thoroly. This should be a stiff dough, and if 
there is not enough moisture add more water. Brush mold or 
kettle with a little melted butter and put in the pudding. The 
mold should not be quite full. Boil 3 hours as soon as it is 
filled. This should be prepared ahead of time and cooked; 
then boil half hour before serving. A half cupful of blanched 
and chopped almonds can be added. Serve with hard or lemon 

S3rU.C6 

PUMPKIN PUDDING 

2 cups cooked pumpkin. 

1 cup milk. 

legg. 

y2 cup sugar. 

% teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon ground ginger. 

14 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

14 teaspoon cinnamon. 

% teaspoon butter or butter substitute. 

To the pumpkin add the milk, well-beaten egg, sugar, 
spices; mix well; jpour in buttered bakedish and dust top with 
cinnamon. Bake in slow oven 1 hour; or bake in buttered 
custard cups and turn out when ready to serve. 



174 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CRUMB PUDDING, LEMON SAUCE 

2 cups apple sauce. 

% cup sugar. 2 cups breadcrumbs. 

% teaspoon cinnamon. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

1 egg (can be omitted). 

Brush pudding dish with butter substitute, put half of 
apple sauce in bottom, half the breadcrumbs on top; sprinkle 
with cinnamon; the remainder of apple sauce is then put in, 
followed with breadcrumbs. Beat egg well, add salt and a little 
milk, pour over layers, dust with cinnamon and dot with butter 
substitute; cover and put into moderate oven 20 minutes. Un- 
cover and bake until browned nicely, about 20 minutes. Serve 
with lemon sauce made as follows: 

Put 3 cups of water on fire ; when boiling add 2 teaspoons 
cornstarch, which has been mixed with a little cold water ; boil 
3 minutes, add grated rind and juice of half lemon, 2 table- 
spoons sugar and 1 tablespoon caramel. 

TAPIOCA WITH FIGS 

2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoons granulated tapioca. 

1 egg. 3 tablespoons sugar. 
Pinch salt. 

4 figs or % cup finely cut figs. 

Put the milk in top of double boiler, add the well-washed 
tapioca, boil 30 minutes or until clear. Beat the yolk of eggs 
with the sugar, salt and 3 tablespoons milk and add; add the 
figs and boil 3 minutes; then pour into bakedish which has been 
brushed with butter. Beat the white of egg until dry, add 1 
tablespoon sugar and put on the pudding in four small kisses ; 
place in cool oven to brown. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

4 tablespoons sugar. Pinch of salt. 1 egg. 

Put the milk in top of double boiler; mix the cornstarch 
and salt with a little cold milk, add the beaten yolk of egg and 
the sugar; mix well and add to the boiling milk; boil 15 min- 
utes;; pour into ice cream glasses or glass bowl. Beat the 
egg white until dry, add 1 tablespoon granulated sugar; drop 
on top of glasses, dust with pulverized sugar. Put the glasses 
in cool oven until the whites are a little brown and dry. Flavor 
to taste. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 175 

GRAPE PUDDING 

W2 cups loose grapes. 

1-3 cup sugar. 

A few grains salt. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

1 cup water. 

Wash the grapes, put into small saucepan, boil until the 
seeds separate from the pulp and skins have left them. Mash 
thru small wire strainer. All the skin must mash thru, then 
add sugar and water, bring to boil and add the cornatarch, 
which has been mixed with a little cold water; boil 10 minutes, 
pour into 4 ice cream glasses. 

Garnish with marshmallow or marshmallow whip. 



GRAPE SHERBET 

2 cups grape juice. 

1 cup wat^r* 

% cup orai^e juice. 

14 cup sugar. 

Ice and salt for freezing. 

The amount of sugar depends on how sweet the grape 
juice is. Boil sugar and water together 3 minutes. When cold 
add grape and orange juice, put in freezer; let stand 10 minutes 
until it is like snow. 

One glass of homemade grape jelly and 2 cups of water 
and sugar to taste with either orange juice or 2 tablespoons 
of lime or lemon juice will make a very good sherbet.' 



GRAPE WHIP 

2 cups Concord grapes. 

1 cup water. 

1 cup syrup. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 

Wash the grapes, put into saucepan with the water; boil 
10 minutes, mash and strain ; add the sugar and gelatin, which 
has been soaked in 1 tablespoon cold water. 

Pour the mixture into bowl, set into pan of cold water and 
whip until it begins to foam. Then put into 8 ice cream glasses 
and place one marshmallow on top. This is a very attractive 
dessert. 



176 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



CHEESE RECIPES 



CHEESE PUDDING 

2 cups (% pound) grated cheese. 

2 cups milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

% teaspoon salt. 

^ teaspoon paprika. 

6 slices bread. 

Butter the bread and put 3 pieces in casserole, sprinkle 
with half the cheese and dust with salt and pepper. Put the 
other 3 pieces of buttered bread and the remainder of cheese 
in casserole and pour the milk over all. Place in moderate oven 
and bake 30 minutes. 

Note: The slices of bread must be cut 5 inches long and 
4 inches wide and i/^ inch thick. There must be just enough 
bread to absorb the milk. 



CHEESE STRAWS, FOR SALADS 

1 cup grated sharp cheese. 
1 cup flour. 

1 rounded teaspoon baking powder. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 

Dash of paprika, 1 egg. < 

y^^ cup milk. 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder into bowl; add cheese 
and mix lightly with fork. Then add the shortening and rub 
lightly until well mixed. Beat the egg with two tablespoons 
milk and Worcestershire sauce, and add. If not enough to 
moisten, add a little more milk so the mixture will hold to- 
gether. Put on floured board, roll out a 14 inch thick, cut in 
strips 34 i'^ch wide and 4 inches long. Put in hot oven and bake 
8 to 10 minutes. 

Note: A novel way is to make a few rings about the size 
of a silver dollar, then put a half dozen straws thru each ring. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 177 

A CHEESE NOVELTY 

1 Neufchatel cheese. 

1 tablespoon peanut butter. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

1 eup finely shredded outside lettuce leaves. 

Mix the cheese, peanut butter and salt together. It must be 
the consistency that it can be rolled into balls. There should 
be twelve balls. Shape the balls into eggs and put the shredded 
lettuce on cheese plate, placing the cheese eggs on top. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



MOCK CHERRY SHORTCAKE 

W2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon shortening. 

% cup milk. 

1 cup raisins. 

1 cup cranberries. 

% cup syrup. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl, add shorten- 
ing, rub in very lightly^ add milk to make a soft dough and pat 
even. Brush top with milk and sprinkle with sugar. Put in 
hot oven 20 to 25 minutes. Cool, split and fill with the follow- 
ing mixture : 

Wash and dry the raisins, put thru food chopper, add the 
cranberries, which have been cut in half. Put both on to boil 
with 1 cup of water, boil 10 minutes; add syrup and 1 table- 
spoon of flour, which has been mixed in cold water until smooth. 
When cold, spread between shortcake. Sprinkle all with sugar. 



178 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERI'CAN 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

W2 cups flour. 

1% teaspoons baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 

34 cup milk. 

1 quart apples. 

% cup sugar. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add short- 
ening and rub in very lightly; then add the milk. Dust bake- 
board with flour ; place the dough on and roll out ^ inch thick. 
Put into shallow pan which has been brushed with butter sub- 
stitute. Wash, pare, quarter and core the apples. Press in 
dough, sprinkle with sugar and dust with cinnamon. Bake in 
moderate oven 30 minutes, or until the apples are tender and 
brown. Eat warm with milk or cream. 

RICH FRUIT CAKE 

1 cup butter or butter substitute. 

2 cups sugar, 6 eggs. 

% cup milk or grape juice. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

1 cup chopped seedless raisins. 

1 cup whole seedless raisins. 
% cup thinly sliced citron. 
y2 cup orange or lemon peel. 

% cup blanched Jordan almonds, sliced thin, or chopped 
pecans. 

14 cup- thinly sliced figs. 
3% cups flour. 

2 rounded teaspoons baking powder. 
% teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon. 

Cream the butter and sugar until light; add the well- 
beaten yolks of eggs and milk slowly; beat until light, then add 
the fruit, which you sprinkle with % cupful of flour; mix well; 
sift the 3 cups of flour with baking powder, add half the flour, 
then add the well-beaten whites of eggs, then the rest of the 
flour. 

Line pan or pans with three thicknesses of paper; place 
in moderate oven and bake 1% to 2 hours. As soon as the cake 
is cool wrap in wax paper and put in box. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 179 

HONEY SHORT CAKE 

Make the regular biscuit or short cake dough, split while 
warm and cover with the honey filling made as follows : 
1 cup milk 
% cup honey. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

2 tablespoons flour. 
^ teaspoon salt. 
Flavor with orange peel. 

Mix the flour with a little cold milk, then add slowly to the 
boiling milk, boil 15 minutes, add salt, honey and the cornstarch 
which has been mixed with a little cold milk. Boil 10 minutes in 
top of double boiler. 



CHRISTMAS CAKE 

1 cup shortening. 
1% cups sugar. 

4 cups flour. % cup milk. 
4 eggs. % cup seeded raisins. 
% cup currants. 

2 tablespoons chopped citron. 
2 tablespoons cocoa. 

y2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

^ teaspoon ginger. 

14 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

Cream the sugar and shortening togelther, add the well- 
beaten eggs and milk slowly. Sift the flour into 3 parts. Bake 2 
parts in jelly tins 20 minutes in a moderate oven. To the third 
part add the raisins, currants, chopped citron, cinnamon, ginger, 
nutmeg and cocoa ; bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Put the 
cake together with a dark jelly, putting the dark cake as the cen- 
ter layer. Cover with chocolate icing or any icing of choice. 



Chocolate Icing 

Put 2 tablespoons cocoa or grated chocolate into bowl ; add 2 
tablespoons boiling water; mix well, then add 4 tablespoons sugar, 
mix until smooth^ then add 1 teaspoon melted butter. You can 
sprinkle the icing with fresh grated cocoanut. 



180 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FIG CAKE 

% cup shortening. 
% cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoons milk. 
1 1-3 cups flour. 

1% teaspoons baking powder. 

14 teaspoon mace. 

1 cup figs put thru food chopper. 

Cream the sugar and shortening together, add the milk 
slowly and the well-beaten yolks of eggs ; sift half the flour over 
the figs and add them, stirring very hard so they will mix well ; 
beat the whites of eggs until light and add ; sift the flour, bak- 
ing powder and mace ; add very lightly. You can bake in loaf 
or in layers and put together with plain white icing. Decorate 
the top with small red candies. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

ll^ cups sugar. 
% cup butter. 

4 egg whites. 
1 cup water. 
3 cups flour. 

3 level teaspoons baking powder. 
y2 teaspoon almond flavoring. 

1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring. 

Cream sugar and butter until light. Sift flour 3 times; 
beat the whites of eggs until stiff. To the creamed butter add 
alternately the cold water and 2 cups of flour and beat 3 min- 
utes; add flavoring and to 1 cup of flour add the baking 
powder; sift twice and add; mix well; add the beaten whites 
of eggs last. Line two 12-inch pans with paper or brush with 
melted butter and dust with flour. Bake in moderately hot 
oven 30 to 35 minutes. 

Filling 

2 cups sugar. 
2 egg whites. 

11/2 cups shelled pecans or almonds. 

% cup seeded raisins. 

1 cup figs or dates. 

Wash , dry the raisins and figs ; put thru food chopper. 
Put sugar on to boil with % cup water ; boil very slowly until it 
spins a thread without stirring. The whites of eggs are beaten 
until dry. Pour the boiled sugar (while hot) into the egg very 
slowly, beating all the time. When thick, add the fruit and nuts ; 
spread between and on top of cake after the cake is cold. 

Note: The yolks of eggs are used for a Lord Baltimore 
cake or mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 181 

ECONOMY FRUIT CAKE 

% cup shortening. 

1 cup brown sugar. 

1 cup New Orleans molasses. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

1 cup currants. 

1/2 cup chopped citron. 

1 cup boiling water. 

2 teaspoons baking soda, 
2 eggs, 3 cups flour, 

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, 

% teaspoon ground ginger, 

1 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

Cream shortening and sugar together; add molasses, then 
baking soda, which has been dissolved in the boiling water, the 
well-beaten egg, half the flour, the fruit and then the rest of 
the flour. 

Line pan with paper and bake in moderate oven for 1 hour. 

RAISIN LOAF CAKE 

% cup shortening. 
1 cup sugar. 1 egg. 

1 cup seedless raisins. 

% cup milk, 2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream shortening and sugar together, beat the eggs until 
light, and add alternately milk with the sifted flour and baking 
powder, using half; then add the raisins, which have been 
cleaned, washed and dried. Add the other half of flour. This 
makes a stiff mixture. Bake in pan that has been lined with paper 
40 to 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

COCOANUT STARS FOR CHRISTMAS 

% cup butter or shortening. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 
4 tablespoons milk. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 cup fresh grated cocoanut. 
Flour enough to roll out. 

Cream the butter and sugar together; beat the eggs until 
well mixed; add the milk and egg slowly. Sift baking powder 
with 2 cups of flour. Add enough flour to roll out; add cocoa- 
nut; handle as little as possible. Divide in 3 parts, place on 
floured board and roll out i/4 inch thick; cut with star cutter. 
Bake in very moderate oven 20 to 25 minutes, as the cocoanut 
gets dark quickly. 



182 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHRISTMAS SUGAR COOKIES 

Vi cup shortening. 

1 cup sugar. 

4 tablespoons sour milk or buttermilk. 

1 teaspoon baking soda. 

1 egg. Flavoring to taste. 

4 cups flour. 

Cream the sugar and shortening until light, add the well- 
beaten egg, the sour milk or buttermilk, and the baking soda 
dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot water; add the flavoring, add 
sifted flour, enough to make a stiff dough; roll out 14 i^^ch 
thick; cut with cookie cutter; sprinkle top with a little sugar 
and press a raisin or nut in the center of each; bake in hot oven 
10 to 12 minutes. 



ANISE SEED COOKIES 

V2 cup butter. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoons milk. 
2 tablespoons anise seed. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 
4 or 5 cups flour. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until very light, beat 
the eggs and add slowly to the butter and sugar. The milk is 
added, 1 teaspoon at a time, beating constantly. Have the anise 
sieed cleaned first by picking out the small stems, then rub 
between the hands so that all the stems come off; sift thru 
coarse sifter and add to the mixture. Sift 4 cups of flour with 
the baking powder; add 1 cup at a time, until all have been 
added. Have some flour sifted; you may need more; work as 
little as possible. Flour bakeboard, take a quarter of the mixture 
and roll out 14 i^ch thick, cut in fancy shapes. Place on floured 
bakesheets; any pan will do if you do not have the sheets. (The 
reason I prefer bakesheets is because they are shallow and do 
not take so long). 

Put in the bottom of hot oven for 10 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 183 

DROP CAKES, COCOA ICING 

y^ cup shortening. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 
1-3 cup milk. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

2 cups flour. Pinch of salt. 

Cream the sugar and shortening together; add the milk 
slowly, then the beaten yolks of eggs. Sift the flour, baking 
powder and salt; add half, then half of the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs, the remainder of flour and the remainder of the whites 
of eggs ; mix and fill into muffin pans. Bake 20 minutes. Ice 
with cocoa icing. 

Icing 

Put 4 tablespoons sugar into pan, add 2 tablespoons boil- 
ing water; stir until smooth; then add 2 tablespoons cocoa; 
mix well and spread over the cakes. 



RICH CRULLERS 

% cup sugar. 

^ cup shortening. 

y2 cup milk. 2 eggs. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

y^ teaspoon mace, nutmeg or vanilla. 

3% to 4 cups flour. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream shortening and sugar together until light, add the 
well-beaten yolks of eggs; sift half the dry ingredients into mix- 
ture, alternating with the milk; then fold in the well-beaten 
whites of eggs, then the rest of flour, or enough flour to make a 
stiff dough. Place on floured board, roll out % inch thick, cut with 
cruller cutter, fry in deep, hot fat or oil. Remove with wire spoon 
and roll in cinnamon and sugar. 



184 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

NUT RINGS AND NUT BARS 

1 cup butter or shortening, or half butter and half shorten- 
ing. 

2 cups sugar. % qup milk. 
4 eggs. 4 cups flour. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 
1/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup chopped almonds. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until light; add the 3 
eggs, one at a time, without beating; beat the butter, sugar and 
eggs together 10 minutes; then add the milk very slowly. Sift 
flour and baking powder together, add a little at a time, until it 
can be rolled out very thin. The rings are cut with a cruller cut- 
ter; the bars are cut 1 inch wide by 4 inches long. Beat 1 egg 
until light and brush the top of rings and bars, sprinkle with 
coarsely chopped nuts. Bake in moderate oven for 20 minutes. 
These are exceptionally good. 

SAND TARTS 

% cup shortening. 

iy2 cups sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

3 or 4 cups flour. 

4 level teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream shortening and sugar together; add the well-beaten 
eggs and milk; sift flour and baking powder together; add a little 
at a time. When stiff enough to roll, roll out very thin, cut in 
diamond shapes, brush with the well-beaten egg; sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and a little of chopped nuts in center. Bake 
in moderate oven 10 minutes. 

EGGLESS FIG COOKIES 

1 cup granulated sugar. 

% cup shortening. 

1 cup flgs put thru meat chopper. 

% cup milk. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 
% teaspoon grated nutmeg. 
% teaspoon salt. 

4 cups flour, or flour enough to roll. 

Cream the sugar, shortening and flgs together ; add the milk 
slowly, nutmeg and salt; sift the baking powder and 2 cups of 
flour together and add; then add as much more flour as you need 
to roll out the dough ^ inch thick. Cut with round cutter or in 
squares, then in three-cornered shapes. Bake in hot oven 12 to 
15 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 185 



HOME BREAD 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

W2 cups cornmeal. 

1% cups rye flour. 

% cup syrup. 

2 cups sour milk or buttermilk. 

2 level teaspoons salt. 

1 level tablespoon baking powder. 

1 level tablespoon oleomargarine or cooking oil. 

Mix the dry ingredients, add milk, molasses, salt and 
shortening. Mix baking soda with 2 tablespoons water, add 
and beat thoroly. Brush mold or 1-pound baking powder can 
with fat and fill two-thirds full, cover and steam 3 hours ; remove 
cover and bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. 



POTATO BREAD 

2 cups mashed potatoes. 

2 cups whole wheat or white flour. 

% cup scalded milk. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon fat. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 yeast cake mixed in 2 tablespoons warm water. 

Wash and boil the potatoes in the skins (less than 1 quart 
of potatoes), skin and put thru the potato ricer, fruit press or 
mash thru strainer; add the cooled milk in which the fat has 
been melted, the sugar, salt and yeast. Add half the flour or 
enough flour to make a stiff dough. Cover and set in warm 
place; after it is double in quantity add remainder of flour, 
mold in loaves, place in warm place to rise again until double in 
quantity. Bake 50 minutes in moderate oven. 



186 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

SWEET POTATO BREAD 

4 cups -fresh, boiled sweet potatoes. 

14 cup molasses. 

14 cup shortening or oleomargarine. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

2 cups water or half water and half milk. 
1 yeast cake. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

4 cups flour. 

Boil the potatoes with skins on ; skin, put thru potato ricer 
or mash thru strainer at once; add molasses and fat while 
warm and beat until light and smooth. Sift two-thirds of flour 
into bowl, add boiled liquid, which must be lukewarm ; add the salt 
and yeast which have been dissolved in lukewarm water. Add 
the sugar and beat until smooth ; then add potatoes and enough 
flour to make a stiff dough. Set to rise from 6 to 7 hours, then 
make into 2 loaves (brick pans), which have been brushed with 
fat, set to rise a second time and when double in quantity brush 
top with milk and put in moderate oven 50 to 60 minutes. 



APPLE TURNOVERS 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

1/4 teaspoon cinnamon. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 

1 cup milk. 

14 cup sweetened apple sauce. 

1 tablespoon granulated sugar. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add shorten- 
ing, rub in very lightly; add enough milk to hold together. 
Dust bakeboard with flour and roll out the dough y^ inch thick, 
cut into 4-inch pieces; in center put 2 tablespoons of apple 
sauce; wet the edges with cold milk; turn over and make a 
3-cornered shape ; press edges together so that the apple sauce 
will not come out. Brush top with milk; sprinkle with sugar 
and dust with a little cinnamon. Bake in hot oven 25 minutes 
or until nice and brown. They are best warm. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 187 

CORNMEAL SPIDER BREAD WITH APPLES 

2 cups cornmeal. 

2 cups chopped apples. 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons melted butter or bacon drippings. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
2 cups boiling water. 

Put the cornmeal into bowl, cover with cloth; when cold 
add the well-beaten eggs and beat 2 minutes; add apples, salt 
and baking powder and mix well. Brush 3 large pietins with 
butter or drippings, pour in mixture and put in moderate oven; 
bake 30 to 35 minutes; serve warm with fruit syrup or jelly. 



NORTH AMERICAN DISH 

2 cups yellow cornmeal. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup seeded raisins. 

1 cup milk. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 teaspoon oleomargarine. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

Sift the flour, cornmeal, salt and baking powder into bowl ; 
add milk, well-beaten egg and the well-washed seeded raisins; 
mix; pour into pan, which has been brushed with melted oleo- 
margarine; bake 20 minutes. 



CORN PONE 

1 cup cornmeal. 1 cup flour. 
1% cups milk. 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons melted fat. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 teaspoon salt, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Sift flour, cornmeal, salt, sugar and baking powder into 
bowl; add the milk, melted fat and well-beaten eggs; mix well. 
Brush pan with a little fat, oil or butter, pour in the mixture 
and bake in hot oven 30 minutes. 

Cut in squares and serve hot. Be sure to have the knife 
blade hot when cutting hot breads of any kind. 



188 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

WAFFLES WITH HONEY 

W2 cups flour. 

1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 
y^ teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Sift the flour, salt^ sugar and baking powder into bowl| 
add the milk and mix well. Then add the butter and well- 
beaten eggs. Mix all together and bake in very hot waffle iron. 
In making waffles be careful not to put too much batter into the 
waffle iron. Be sure they are well greased. 

SWEET POTATO GEMS 

14 peck boiled sweet potatoes. 

2 eggs. 

Dash of paprika. 

1 tablespoon melted butter, oleomargarine or drippings. 

34 cup milk. 

Skin and put the freshly boiled sweet potatoes thru fruit 
press, potato ricer or mash thru strainer; add salt, paprika, 
butter substitute or drippings. Beat the eggs and milk until 
light and add to the potato (reserving 1 tablespoon to brush the 
tops). Beat mixture until creamy, brush 12 iron gem pans with 
drippings, fill with mixture; smooth tops and brush with egg; 
place in hot oven 30 minutes or until brown. These are very 
attractive if put around the edge of meat alternately with 
sprigs of parsley or celery. 

CORNMEAL MUFFINS 
1 cup cornmeal. 
1 cup flour. 
1 cup cold milk. 

1 cup boiling milk, 
legg. 

2 tablespoons melted butter or oleomargarine. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Put the cornmeal into bowl, add the boiling milk, in which 
the butter has been melted, and beat well ; add the cold milk and 
well-beaten egg, salt and sugar; sift the baking powder and 
flour, add slowly and mix lightly; have muffin or popover irons 
very hot and well greased ; fill half full, put in hot oven and bake 
20 minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 1S9 

POPOVERS 

3 eggs. 
2 cups flour. 
2 cups milk. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon melted butter. 

Beat the eggs and milk until light; add the sifted flour and 
salt and beat well. Pour into iron popover pans, which have 
been heated very hot and brushed with melted butter. Bake in 
hot oven 30 minutes. This will make 16 popovers. 

SCONES 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons shortening. 

legg. 

1-3 cup milk. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt, rub in the 
shortening with tips of fingers ; add 1 well-beaten egg and the 
milk (save 1 teaspoonful to brush the scones). Place on floured 
board, pat and roll out % inch thick. Cut into 3-cornered 
shapes; brush the top with milk and bake in hot oven 15 
minutes. 



PIES 



MINCE PIE 

3 cups flour. 
y2 cup shortening. 
1 level teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon rich milk, 
3% cups mincemeat. 

Sift flour and salt into bowl; add shortening and rub in 
very lightly with tips of fingers. Add a little cold water, just 
enough to hold together; divide; dust pieplate with flour. Roll 
out the dough ; line plate ; put in the mincemeat. Wet the edges 
with milk; put on top cover; press the edge firm. Brush top 
with milk; make 3 or 4 cuts in top of pie, and put in hot oven 
and bake 30 minutes. The milk is put on to give it a glaze. 

Note : This makes 2 medium-sized pies. 



190 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

1 cup cranberries. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

% cup sugar. Pinch salt. 

1 teaspoon cornstarch. * 

Wash the raisins and cover with 1 cup cold water; put on 
fire and as soon as they come to a boil add cornstarch, which has 
been mixed with cold water, boil 2 minutes; add salt. Remove 
from fire. Wash the cranberries and cut in half; add to the 
cooled raisins; then add sugar; do not boil after adding cran- 
berries. 

Line pieplate with the regular pie crust, sprinkle with a 
little flour, wet edge with cold milk, put in the filling; cover 
with milk; bake in hot oven 35 to 40 minutes. 



PUMPKIN PIE 

2 cups cooked or canned pumpkin. 
1 well-beaten egg. 
y2 cup milk. % cup sugar. 
^ teaspoon ground ginger. 
34 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 
% teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon cinnamon for top, or if you do not like the cin- 
namon over top it can be mixed thru the pumpkin. 

Mix the pumpkin with the sugar, well-beaten egg, ginger, 
nutmeg and salt; beat 2 minutes. Pour into pietin, which has 
been lined with dough; dust with cinnamon. Bake 1 hour. 



SWEET POTATO PIE 

2 cups boiled sweet potatoes. 
1 egg. 1 cup milk. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

1/2 level teaspoon ginger. 

2 tablespoons syrup. 

The potatoes are boiled in the skins; when tender, skinned 
and mashed thru fruit press or strainer. Add milk, well-beaten 
egg, syrup and flavoring ; mix well. Put in pietin that has been 
lined with pie crust, dust top with cinnamon and bake 1 hour in 
slow oven. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 191 

SLICED APPLE PIE 

1^ cups flour. 

3 rounded tablespoons shortening. 

% teaspoon salt. 

3 cups sliced apples. 

3 tablespoons sugar or sugar to taste. 

1 teaspoon milk. 

Cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Sift the flour and salt into bowl; add the shortening and 
rub m very lightly; add enough cold water to hold together; 
roll out half on floured board; line pieplate. Wash, pare and 
slice the apples fine, fill into crust, add sugar, dust with cinna- 
mon or a little grated nutmeg. 

Roll out the remainder of the dough, wet lower edge and 
cover the pie, pressing the edges tight; brush the top with milk 
and bake in moderate oven 30 minutes. 

CRANBERRIES WITH HONEY AND RAISINS 

1 quart cranberries. 

1 cup honey or syrup. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

A few grains of salt. 

Wash the cranberries and put in saucepan with % cup of 
water, cover, bring to boil rapidly; uncover, mash and remove 
from fire. 

The raisins are washed, dried and put thru food chopper, 
put on in % cup of cold water and boil in uncovered saucepan 5 
minutes; add the honey or syrup and cranberries, and boil 3 
minutes. The cranberries can be mashed thru strainer if 
desired. The combination of raisins and cranberries is 
delicious. 



HOMEMADE CANDIES 



COCOANUT KISSES 

1 can fresh grated cocoanut. 

2 cups sugar. 

Pinch of baking soda. 

Put sugar and contents of can into shallow saucepan over 
slow fire, stir until sugar is dissolved, then boil slowly, stirring 
constantly until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water; remove from fire, and add baking soda; stir until 
cooled, then drop from spoon on to oiled or buttered plates. 
A few drops of vanilla can be added if desired. 



192 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

COCOANUT SEA FOAM 

1 cup canned fresh grated cocoanut. 

2 cups dark brown sugar. 

1 cup cocoanut milk and water. 

2 egg whites. 

Pinch of baking soda. 

Put sugar and cocoanut milk into saucepan; stir until 
dissolved, put on fire and boil slowly until it spins a thread or 
makes a soft ball when dipped in cold water. Beat egg whites 
until dry (on a platter), add sugar slowly and keep beating 
until stiff, then add the soda and cocoanut pressed dry in 
cheesecloth. Drop a teaspoonful at a time on a platter that 
has been brushed with butter or oleomargarine; sprinkle top with 
cocoanut. Set in cold place to dry. 

Note : Put cocoanut milk in cup and fill with water. 

DINNER CREAM MINTS 
2 egg whites. 
1 tablespoon water. 

1 teaspoon extract of mint. 

2 lbs. XXXX sugar. 

1 cup walnuts, candied cherries or small pieces of citron, 
small pieces of candied pineapple or lemon peel or melted cocoa 
or chocolate. 

Beat the whites of eggs, water and mint together until well 
blended. Add sugar gradually until thick enough to knead and 
shape into balls. If for English walnuts, flatten the sides and 
place half a walnut on each side; or make a small round ball, 
flatten on the top and put in the cherry, citron, pineapple or 
lemon peel ; or make small round balls, flatten, brush with bitter 
cocoa or chocolate, lay on flat plate to cool. 

NUT BRITTLE 

2 cups granulated sugar. 

2 cups shelled roasted peanuts. 

1/4 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon vinegar. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Put the sugar into deep saucepan over slow fire ; when melted 
and light brown add soda and vinegar, boil 3 minutes; butter pie- 
tins and cover bottom with the peanuts that all the skin has been 
rubbed from ; then pour the boiled sugar over the nuts. If prefer- 
red, the nuts may be put thru the food chopper before putting on 
plate. 

Another good brittle is made the same as above, but use only 
half the amount of nuts and add 1 cup of chopped seeded raisins, 
Or puffed wheat can be used instead of peanuts. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 193 

FRENCH SWEETS 

1 cup dates after stone is removed. 

1 cup figs. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

1 cup English walnuts or pecans. 

2 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Put the nuts, dates and figs thru fine food chopper, using the 
finest knife. Put into bowl, moisten with orange and lemon juice ; 
mix well with a wooden spoon. Cut into squares and let stand 
3 or 4 hours. 

HONEY NUT CANDY 

1 cup strained honey. 
^ cup cocoa. 

2 cups finely chopped nut meats. 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon. 

Mix ingredients, put into saucepan and boil slowly until it will 
stick together when dropped into cold water. Dust bakeboard with 
1 teaspoon of confectioner's sugar and put mixture on. When cold 
roll out %-inch thick and cut in %-inch squares. Place in warm 
oven to dry. 

DATE BALLS 

2 cups washed and stoned dates. 
2 cups cold boiled rice. 

1 cup cocoanut. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Lemon juice. 

Put the dates, rice and half the cocoanut thru meat chopper, 
add salt and enough lemon juice to make a stiff paste. Take a 
% teaspoon and roll in small ball, then in cocoanut and XXXX 
sugar. Set aside to dry. Any other kind of nut meat may be used. 

HONEY AND COCOA CUSHIONS 

1 cup strained honey. 

1/4 cup cocoa. 

Pinch of baking soda. 

1 tablespoon water. 

Put the honey into iron frypan over very slow fire, stir until 
it begins to boil, add the cocoa, which has been mixed with the 
water (it will be a thick paste), continue boiling very slowly, stir- 
ring constantly, until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water. Pour on platter that has been brushed with butter or 
butter substitute until cold enough to handle. Then pull until it 
is glassy and cold. Form into long thin strips and with greased 
scissors cut into i^-inch or inch pieces. This will be crisp, but 
the chewy kind. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 195 



Part IV — Winter Recipes 



(January, February, March) 



OYSTERS 



OYSTER BISQUE 

8 medium-sized oysters. 

1% cups evaporated milk. 

1% cups water or 3 cups milk. 

1 tablespoon butter or butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour, i^ teaspoon salt. 

Pepper and paprika. 

Put the milk and water on to boil, when boiling add the but- 
ter and flour, which have been rubbed together until smooth, boil 
until smooth and creamy, then drain the oysters and put in small 
pan over fire until the gills curl, then put thru chopper or cut fine, 
add the hot oyster liquor. The seasoning and a few grains of nut- 
meg will flavor. 

QUICK PANNED OYSTERS 

30 oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

A few grains of red pepper or a little white pepper. 

Drain the oysters and put into hot, shallow pan (they should 
not be over 3 oysters deep when putting them in pan) ; keep pan 
over hot fire constantly in metion; add butter, salt and pepper; 
boil 3 to 5 minutes, that depends on size of oysters. One must be 
careful not to boil them too much. This is the simplest and one of 
the best ways to cook oysters. 



196 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

DEVILED OYSTERS 

12 large oysters. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 cup fresh breadcrumbs. 

1 cup dry breadcrumbs. 

% teaspoon salt. Dash pepper. 

Dash paprika. 

Drain and rinse the oysters; put thru chopper; then put into 
saucepan ; add onion and let them come to a boil and add 1 cup 
boiling milk. Rub butter and flour together and add to the 
oysters and milk, stirring until it thickens ; then add salt, pepper, 
parsley and fresh breadcrumbs ; mix all well together. Set aside 
to get cold. Have 12 large oyster shells; wash, scald and dry. 
Fill the mixture, dust with dry breadcrumbs (beat egg with 1 
tablespoon milk) , lift the oyster shell with skimmer or large spoon 
and cover with the beaten egg, again with breadcrumbs. Bake 
20 minutes in hot oven or fry in deep, hot fat. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Take large oysters, drain and wrap each one in a very thin 
slice of bacon and fasten with toothpick thru the hard part of 
oysters. Place in shallow pan in hot oven and bake until the bacon 
is brown. Have bran bread cut thin and oblong just the size to 
hold 5 oysters. Toast in oven and when oysters are done, lay 
them evenly on the bread. Garnish with thin slice of lemon that 
has been dipped in very finely chopped parsley. A sprig or two 
of watercress adds to the appearance of the dish. Sauce can be 
served around the bread. 

The sauce can be made by adding a little flour to the pan in 
which the oysters are baked. Mix well, and add 1 cup of cold 
milk and seasoning to taste; boil 5 minutes. 

A GOOD WINTER SOUP 

1 pound neck of beef. 

14 cup beef suet. % cup barley. 

14 cup green peas. 1 cup diced carrots. 

1 cup finely cut onion. 1 cup diced potatoes. 

1 level tablespoon salt. Pepper to taste. 

2 tablespoons cut parsley. 

Wash the meat, put on to boil with 2i/^ quarts of water, boil 
% hour; then add the well-washed barley and beef suet; boil i/^ 
hour; then add rest of ingredients; boil 40 minutes; remove 
meat and suet. If it is too thick, add rice or any other vegetable 
stock that is on hand. There must be 2 quarts of thick soup 
when finished, allowing 2 large helpings for each person. 

Note — ^The meat and suet is used for tomorrow's dinner. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 197 

PUREE OF BEAN 

1 pound beans. 

2 tablespoons finely cut scallions. 

2 tablespoons drippings. 2 teaspoons salt. 

Dash white pepper. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley, i^ teaspoon thyme. 

Soak the beans in cold water overnight, drain, put into 
saucepan with boiling water to cover and boil slowly 2 hours, or 
until tender; mash thru coarse strainer and return to stock; 
add the onion, which has been fried in the drippings until a light 
brown; boil 15 minutes; add the salt, pepper, parsley, thyme 
and boil 5 minutes. A little thickening can be added to make it 
more creamy. 

DRIED BEAN CHOWDER— A WHOLE MEAL 

1 pound soup beans. 2 cups diced potatoes. 

34 cup finely cut onion. 

1 level tablespoon salt. Pepper to taste. 

1 teaspoon thyme. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

% pound half-smoked sausage. 

Wash and soak the beans overnight, put on to boil with 2i/^ 
quarts of cold water; boil slowly 2 or 3 hours, then add potatoes 
and onion, salt and pepper, boil 45 minutes, or until the beans 
and potatoes have boiled to a mush. It may be necessary to 
mash the beans to make it quite thick. Add parsley and thyme 
and the cornstarch, which has been mixed in cold water. 

"Wash and cut the half-smoked sausages into 14-iiich pieces 
and put in the chowder. This gives the smoked meat flavor and 
makes a very hearty chowder. 

MOCK OYSTER OR SALSIFY SOUP 

2 cups salsify. 2 cups milk. 
1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon butter or butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon paprika. 

Wash and scrape, cut in i/^-inch rounds, put into cold water 
at once, so they will not get dark; drain, cover with boiling 
water and boil 40 minutes, or until tender ; drain and mash thru 
colander; add 2 cups of rice or vegetable stock, onion season- 
ing; add the hot milk and butter or substitute and flour, which 
have been rubbed together until smooth; boil 5 minutes; add a 
few thin slices of the salsify (uncooked), dust with paprika and 
serve with crackers. 



198 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



FISH 



FILET OF FLOUNDER, SAUCE TARTARE 

Flounder. 1 egg. 1 cup breadcrumbs. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon white pepper. 

Split and remove all bone and skin from flounder; cut in 
pieces about 2x3 inches ; wash and dry on piece of cheesecloth ; 
dust with salt and pepper ; dredge with flour ; dip in egg which 
has been beaten with 1 tablespoon of cold milk, then in bread- 
crumbs. Fry in deep, hot fat. 

Sauce Tartare 

1 cup mayonnaise. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped capers or olives. 

1 tablespoon sour gherkins. 

1 tablespoon onion juice. 

Be sure the mayonnaise is seasoned highly. Just before 
serving add the other ingredients, mix and serve in sauce boat. 

DEVILED FISH 

• 2 pounds steakfish or haddock. 

2 cups cream sauce. 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoons grated onion or nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon salt. ^^ teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon butter or butter substitute. 

14 cup breadcrumbs. 

Boil the fish 20 minutes ; drain ; when cold remove all skin and 
bone. Put the flake in a bowl, add the cream sauce, onion, parsley, 
salt and paprika and Worcestershire sauce; mix very lightly, so 
as to not break the fish. Brush shallow earthen dish with drip- 
pings; fill with fish and cover with breadcrumbs; bake in mod- 
erate oven 30 minutes ; serve in dish in which it is baked. 

SMOKED HERRING 

Remove head and split, being careful not to break or cut the 
roe or milt. Remove backbone and skin, which is quite easily 
done if started at top end. After the fish have been cleaned they 
can be broiled and a little melted butter substitute put on top, or 
they can be put on pie plate and placed in hot oven 5 to 10 minutes. 
Serve with slice of lemon. 

The roe or milt can be either broiled or put in oven with the 

fish. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 199 

CREAMED FISH WITH MASHED POTATOES 

2 cups flaked cooked fish. 

1 cup white sauce. 

2 quarts mashed and seasoned potatoes. 

Add the fish to the hot sauce, put in center of chop plate and 
put the mashed potatoes around the edge; sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and paprika. 



BOILED CODFISH, PARSLEY SAUCE 

Wash the fish, place on piece of cheesecloth, bring the cheese- 
cloth around the fish and tie it in 3 or 4 places. Have the water 
boiling and put in the fish, add 2 tablespoons of cut onion, 1 table- 
spoon of salt, Ys teaspoon pepper and boil 25 minutes. Lift out as 
told before and cover with the following sauce: 



PARSLEY SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon oat flour. 1 cup milk. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon cut parsley. 

% teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

Put the butter substitute into saucepan, melt, add the flour, 
mix well and then add the cold milk slowly, add onion and stir 
until smooth and creamy; then add the salt, parsley, paprika and 
the hard-boiled egg chopped fine. Boil 1 minute. 



CREAMED HADDOCK IN RAMEKINS 

2 pounds haddock. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1% cups milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon white pepper. 

Ys teaspoon paprika. 1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon chopped green peppers if you like them. 

Wash and boil the fish 15 minutes; drain; remove all skin 
and bone ; break into small pieces ; add to the sauce ; mix lightly. 
Brush ramekins or guernsey dish with drippings. Put in the 
fish and bake in hot oven until a nice brown. 

Sauce : Put the butter, onion and green peppers into sauce- 
pan ; when onion is cooked, add the flour. Mix well and add the 
cold milk slowly. When thick and smooth, add the salt, paprika 
and pepper. Mix well and add the fish. 



200 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FISH IN CASSEROLE 

2 pounds steakfish. 

1^ tablespoons butter or butter substitute. 
1% tablespoons flour. 1% cups milk. 
% teaspoon salt. A little red pepper. 
1 teaspoon onion juice. 

Wash and wipe the fish, put into saucepan, cover with boil- 
ing water; add 1 teaspoon salt and 1 teaspoon finely cut onion; 
boil 10 minutes; remove skin and bone. Brush casserole with 
butter or drippings, break the fish into pieces and put in ; cover 
with the sauce and 1 tablfespoon finely chopped green pepper; 
bake 30 minutes in moderate oven with cover. 

Sauce: Put the butter and onion juice into saucepan; when 
butter is melted add the flour, mix well, and add the cold milk 
slowly, stirring until smooth and creamy; add the salt and 
pepper and boil 3 minutes. 

BOILED STEAKFISH WITH SAUCE 

13/2 pounds steakfish. 

1 cup left-over stewed tomatoes. 

14 cup cut onion. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

% teaspoon salt. A little pepper. 

Put the onion and fat into pan, fry until brown and crisp ; 
add tomato and boil 5 minutes; rub thru strainer; add season- 
ing and cornstarch and boil 3 minutes. Pour over the boiled 
steakfish. 

BROILED MACKEREL 

Rinse a medium-sized mackerel the evening before, put into 
pan, skin side up ; fill pan with water before going to bed. In 
the morning take from the water and dry, brush with 1 teaspoon 
olive oil on the split side, place in broiler over clear fire, and 
keep turning quite often until it is a nice brown. You can put 
over a little melted butter; dust with pepper. 



YARMOUTH BLOATER 

Skin the bloater, remove the head and tail ; split down the 
back and remove the entrails. Place on bakepan which has been 
brushed with drippings and put in hot oven 15 minutes; remove 
and place on hot platter. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 201 



MEATS 



LAMB A LA NEWBERG 

2 cups cold boiled lamb. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1 tablespoon finely cut green peppers. 1 cup rice. 

Cut the lamb into inch-square thin pieces; cover with cream 
sauce, which has been colored with 1 teaspoon caramel ; add the 
green pepper and put in center of platter. The rice is washed 
and boiled as usual, and put around the meat. Dust the rice 
with paprika and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 



FOREQUARTER OF LAMB 

If a forequarter of lamb is correctly cut there should be a 
rack of lamb (French chops), a shoulder, also the neck and 
breast, which is boiled. The broth is used for soup, and the 
meat can be used for croquettes, meat loaf, creamed and served 
on toast, for salads or used in many other ways. True, there is 
not a great deal from the forequarter weighing 8 to 9 pounds, 
but there will be 2 cups of lean meat which, when used with 
other food, will always be enough for the family of 4 or 5 
persons. Or it can be made into a stew or curried and served 
with rice. 

The shoulder can be filled and roasted or boiled with caper 
sauce, or pot roasted. The rack, which is the dainty French 
chops, is the choicest of the entire lamb, and if the butcher cuts 
the forequarter correctly — that is, removes the shoulder and 
takes out all bone, then cuts off the neck and breast; then 
removes the chine and frenches the chops same as for a crown 
roast— there will be 12 very choice chops to cut as needed. 

CROWN ROAST YEARLING LAMB 

One rack of lamb is fixed and tied by the butcher. The 
trimmings and bones that were boiled yesterday are used in the 
bottom of the pan, and the meat is seasoned and placed on same. 
The chopstick is covered with a small pudding pan so it will not 
burn. Roast quickly 45 minutes. Place on warm chop plate. 
Put the potatoes in center and the peas around the meat. 

1 quart old potatoes, mashed. 

1 can of peas. 

The rack of lamb makes a very small crown roast, but the 
rack can be cut with the neck (chops) and there will be enough 
meat for the moderate meat eater. 



202 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

LAMB STEW WITH CARROTS AND PEAS 

iy2 pounds lean stewing lamb. 

1 quart carrots. 1 tablespoon cut onion. 

2 tablespoons finely cut parsley. 
1 teaspoon salt. Paprika. 

Have the meat cut into small pieces; wash and put into 
saucepan with 4 cups boiling water. Boil 1% hours, then add 
the carrots, which have been washed, scraped and cut into 
1-inch thin strips. The onion, salt and pepper are added. Be 
sure there is enough water to come to top of carrots and meat. 
Boil 45 minutes. Mix flour with cold water and add to meat and 
carrots to make a thick sauce. Boil 5 minutes; then add the 
parsley. Serve the meat in center of platter and carrots around. 
Heat 1 can of peas and pour around the carrots. When pre- 
pared in this way no butter is needed, the meat is nicely flavored 
and the carrots and sauce are rich and tasty. 



ESCALLOPED LAMB WITH CREOLE SAUCE 

Cut the cold boiled meat into small, thin slices; put in shal- 
low earthen or glass dish ; then cover with sauce Creole, made 
as follows : 

2 tablespoons drippings or cooking oil. 
% cup finely cut onions. 
2l;ablespoons finely cut green pepper. 
2 cups tomatoes. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
2 teaspoons salt. % teaspoon paprika. 
Ys teaspoon whole cloves and allspice. 
Piece of whole mace. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon table sauce, 

2 tablespoons finely cut parsley or celery top. 
1 tablespoon caramel. 

Put the drippings or oil into frypan; add the onions and 
peppers and fry until brown; then add tomatoes and spices and 
fry until quite dry, stirring quite often. Add 2 cups of vege- 
table or rice stock or water and seasoning. Cook slowly 30 
minutes (simmer) ; add flour, which has been mixed with a little 
cold water; boil 5 minutes. Th^ rub thru strainer and add 
table sauce and caramel, parsley or celery top. Pour over the 
meat, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and put in oven for 15 to 20 
minutes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 203 

CURRIED LAMB WITH RICE BORDER 

1 pound lean lamb. 1 cup rice, 2 tablespoons cut onion. 
1 teaspoon curry powder or powder to taste. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon cut parsley. 
1 tablespoon flour. 

Wipe the lamb with wet pieces of cheesecloth ; put in sauce- 
pan; cover with boiling water; add onion and salt and boil 
slowly 2 hours, or until tender. Mix the curry powder and flour 
with a little cold water and add to the meat. Boil 5 minutes. 
The rice is washed, boiled, blanched and dusted with salt, as 
usual, and put around the edge of platter. Put the meat and 
gravy in center; sprinkle with parsley and dust with paprika, 

BROWN BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

Brown the beef in a little beef drippings, add onion and 
seasoning and boil until tender; add a little of the celery stock 
to flavor the gravy and meat; when tender add a little corn- 
starch thickening and serve on chop plate with dumplings 
around the edge; garnish with parsley and dust dumplings 
with paprika. This makes a very hearty dish. 

Dumplings 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder, 14 teaspoon salt, 

1 teaspoon lard or shortening. Milk. 

Sift dry ingredients; add shortening; rub in very lightly; 
add suflScient milk to make a stiff dough ; take a teaspoonful in 
floured hands and roll evenly; after all are made, put on top of 
meat; put cover on so steam will not escape and boil 10 minutes; 
remove with fork and put around the edge of platter. This 
amount makes about 10 medium-sized dumplings, 

BEEF STEW WITH HOMINY 

1 pound lean stewing beef. 

1 quart cooked hominy, 1 cup carrots. 

1 cup tomatoes, 1 cup cut onion. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 

1 tablespoon caramel. 1 teaspoon salt, 

% teaspoon white pepper. Dash paprika. 

Wipe the meat, cut into 2-inch pieces, put in boiler and add 
2 cups of boiling water; boil slowly 1/2 hour. Add the onion 
and carrot, which have been cut small, boil 20 minutes. Add 
the cooked hominy, tomatoes, salt and pepper ; boil 20 minutes. 
Mix the thickening with a little cold water, add and boil 3 min- 
utes; add the caramel and chopped parsley. Serve on hot 
platter. 

Note : The hominy can be served around the meat as a border. 



204 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

SHEPHERD'S PIE 

1 pound lean stewing meat. ^ peck potatoes. 

2 tablespoons cut onion. 

1 tablespoon cut parsley. 2 teaspoons salt. 
Ys teaspoon paprika. 1 tablespoon cornmeal. 
1 tablespoon cornstarch. 2 cups canned peas. 

Cut the meat into small pieces, put on to boil in 3 cups of 
boiling water; add 1 teaspoon salt, pepper and onion, boil until 
tender, about 2% hours ; add half the potatoes, cut in dice, and 
boil 25 minutes. 

While the meat is boiling, wash, boil and skin the other half 
of potatoes, put thru fruit press or potato ricer, add 1 teaspoon 
of salt, pepper and a little milk; beat until light and smooth. 

Put the stewed meat and potatoes, which have been thick- 
ened with the cornstarch, into bakedish, then cover with the 
peas, which are seasoned with a little salt. Cover top with the 
mashed potatoes, rough with fork, sprinkle with cornmeal and 
put in oven to brown. 



BAKED MEAT PIE WITH HOMINY 

1 pound lean stewing beef. 

1 teaspoon salt. A little paprika. 
4 cups cold boiled hominy. 

2 tablespoons cut celery top. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

The meat is cut in small pieces ; wash and put into sauce- 
pan with 3 cups of water; boil until tender and then add season- 
ing, hominy and flour thickening. Place meat and hominy in 
bakedish and cover with %-inch crust; pour % cup of the warm 
meat stock over top of crust and put in moderate oven and bake 
25 to 30 minutes. Serve in dish in which it is baked. Crust is 
made as follows : 

14 cup flour. 

2 tablespoons beef suet. 
14 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Put the flour, salt and baking powder into bowl. Put suet 
thru the food chopper and add to flour; mix well; then add 
enough cold rice stock to make a dough that can be patted flat 
just large enough to cover top of bakedish. The suet must be 
chopped very fine. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 205 

BAKED HAM 

Half of a small smoked ham, or a slice cut 3 to 3^ inches 
thick from the center of the ham. Wipe, put on with cold water 
to cover; boil slowly until tender. Boil the day before and let it 
cool in the stock. Trim off the skin ; place in shallow pan ; cover 
with 1 cup of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon flour and % teaspoon 
pepper; add 2 cups cold water and bake until brown. Baste 2 
or 3 times. 

Remove the ham, and to the gravy add 2 tablespoons flour 
mixed with cold water and boil 3 minutes. 

BOILED HAM WITH SPINACH 

The butt end of ham is washed in hot water; put on to boil 
in cold water; boil slowly until tender. Remove, put in warm 
place and add the spinach, which has been washed thoroly; boil 
20 minutes (not too tender) ; season to taste. The ham is sliced 
thin and put around the spinach. 

PORK CHOPS WITH BROWNED HOMINY 

1 pound pork chops. 1 pound hominy. 

2 teaspoons salt and pepper to taste. 

Have small loin or rack chops cut 5 to the pound ; trim off 
the chine bone. Put the chops into hot pan without fat, also the 
trimmings; fry quickly, turning quite often. There will be 
enough fat from the meat and bone trimmings to fry the meat. 
After the chops are browned nicely, season with salt and pep- 
per. Place on center of hot platter. Put the hominy, which 
has been soaked overnight and boiled imtil tender (either in a 
fireless cooker or in front of cellar furnace) into pan after remov- 
ing bones. Fry same as you would hashed browned potatoes. 
Season to taste and put around the chops. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and paprika. 

ox TONGUE WITH VEGETABLE SAUCE 

Place the tongue in small pan, set pan in another with hot 
water, cover and put over fire 15 minutes. Slice thin and cover 
with the sauce. 

Vegetable Sauce 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

% cup cut onion. 1 cup canned tomatoes. 

2 tablespoons finely cut carrot. 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon salt. Yg teaspoon white pepper. 

Ys teaspoon paprika. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Put the drippings in frypan, add the onion and fry until 
tender, but not brown; add the tomatoes and carrots, 1 cup of 
water and boil 15 minutes; add seasoning and flour, which has 
been mixed with a little cold water; boil 3 minutes. Pour over 
tongue and sprinkle with the parsley. 




MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



VEGETABLES 



ESCALLOPED ONIONS 

1 quart onions. 

1 tablespoon butter or substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 cup milk. 

iy2 tablespoons salt. 

Dash white pepper. ^^ cup breadcrumbs. 

Put onions into pan of cold water, peel and cut into l^-inch 
rings. Put into saucepan of boiling water and boil 10 minutes, or 
until tender. Drain, saving stock for the tomato soup. Brush 
bakedish with butter, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, put in onions, 
pour over the cream sauce, cover with breadcrumbs and bake in 
hot oven until light brown. 



SCOTCH POTATOES 

1 quart white potatoes. 1 quart onions. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespoon cut parsley or celery top. 

Wash and pare the potatoes and onions, cut in 14-inch rounds ; 
put in saucepan, cover with boiling water and boil 20 minutes; 
drain and put in bakedish, dust with salt and pepper, cover with 
milk; place in moderate oven and bake 30 minutes. Sprinkle 
with parsley or celery tops and serve in dish in which it is baked. 
One tablespoon of butter or oleomargarine can be added if desired. 



BAKED LIMA BEANS 

1 pound dried lima beans. 

1 teaspoon salt. Vs teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespoon dried mustard. 

2 tablespoons molasses. 

Soak the beans overnight; put in saucepan, cover with boiling 
water; boil 1 hour, or until tender (time depends on age of beans). 
Drain, put m casserole or bakepan with the drippings, pepper 
and molasses and 2 cups of boiling water. Place in moderate oven 
2 hours. Serve in dish in which they are baked. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 207 

LIMA BEANS WITH "HALF-SMOKES" 

1 pound lima beans. 
% pound half -smoked sausages. 
1 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon pepper. 
1 tablespoon molasses. 

Soak the lima beans 24 hours ; boil slowly from 2 to 4 hours. 
Some beans will cook tender in less than an hour. It is always 
best to be on the safe side ; therefore, put them on early. If tender 
in 1 hour, put on back of stove until ready to serve; then drain 
and serve with half -smoked sausage, which is boiled and cut into 
%-inch pieces and mixed thru the beans. Season to taste. This 
can be baked or served plain. 

CREAMED LENTILS 

Boil 2 cups of lentils, the same as in foregoing recipe; drain 
and add 1 cup of cream sauce. 

Sauce: Put 1 tablespoon butter into saucepan, melt; add 1 
teaspoon onion juice and 1 tablespoon flour; mix well and add 1 
cup of cold milk slowly; stir until smooth and creamy; add 1 tea- 
spoon salt, a dash white pepper. 

MASHED YELLOW TURNIPS 

Wash, pare and cut 14 peck of turnips into small pieces ; put 
into saucepan; cover with boiling water and boil until tender, 
without a lid. Drain, mash and add 2 teaspoons of salt, a little 
white pepper and 2 teaspoons of butter. 

CREAMED TURNIPS 

1 quart turnips. 
1 tablespoon butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 
1 cup milk. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash of pepper. 

Wash, pare and cut the turnips into %-inch dice. Put on 
with boiling water to cover, and boil until tender, without a cover. 
Drain and pour over the cream sauce; mix well. 

Sauce : Put the butter into a saucepan ; melt ; add the flour ; 
mix well, and then add the cold milk slowly. Stir until smooth 
and creamy, and add the salt and pepper ; boil 2 minutes. 



208 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

1 cauliflower. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1 cup fresh breadcrumbs. 

% cup grated cheese. 

Trim the outside leaves; put in bowl of cold water stem end 
up for 30 minutes. Put in saucepan stem end down ; cover with 
boiling water and boil 20 minutes. Remove carefully, separate 
the flowerets; arrange carefully in shallow earthen dish. Cover 
with cream sauce and sprinkle top with breadcrumbs and cheese. 
Place in hot oven about 20 minutes. Serve in dish in which it is 
baked. Ilie sauce should be well seasoned. 

BROWNED PARSNIPS 

1 quart parsnips. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons butter or bacon drippings. 
Pinch of pepper. 

Wash, pare and cut the parsnips into i/^-inch rounds or slices. 
Cover with boiling water and boil 25 to 30 minutes, or until tender ; 
drain. Brush griddle with butter or drippings, put on parsnips 
and brown them nicely. Dust with salt and pepper. Or they 
can be put into a shallow pan with the drippings ; salt and pepper ; 
sprinkle with sugar, put in a hot oven and brown. 

ESCALLOPED PARSNIPS 

Wash, pare and cut 1 quart of parsnips into rounds ; put into 
saucepan; cover with boiling water; boil until tender, without 
a cover. Drain; add to the cream sauce. Brush bakedish with 
butter ; sprinkle with breadcrumbs ; put in the parsnips and cream 
sauce, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs over top. Bake in hot oven 
until brown. 

Cream sauce: Put 1 tablespoon of butter into saucepan; 
melt; add 1 tablespoon of flour; mix well. Add 1 cup of cold milk 
slowly; stir until smooth and creamy; then add 1 teaspoon of 
salt and a dash of pepper; boil 2 minutes. 

HASHED PARSNIPS 

4 cups finely cut parsnips. 
1 tablespoon drippings. 

3 tablespoons milk. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash of pepper. 

Put drippings into saucepan ; add finely cut parsnips, salt and 
pepper, and keep turning constantly until heated thru; then add 
2 feblespoons of coW milk and fry until brown. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 209 

SWEET POTATOES IN CASSEROLE 

1 quart parboiled sweet potatoes. 

% cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon drippings, butter or butter substitute. 

1 level teaspoon cinnamon. 

y^ teaspoon ginger. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

Boil potatoes 10 minutes; skin and cut into ^-inch slices. 
Put in casserole, cover with sugar; add seasoning and flavoring,; 
put drippings on top and cover and put in moderate oven 1 hour; 
then remove cover and brown slightly. Serve in dish in which 
they are baked. 

BROWNED MASHED SWEET POTATOES 

1/4 peck sweet potatoes. 

2 tablespoons milk. % teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

Boil the potatoes in skins, when tender skin, and put thru 
potato ricer or fruit press; add milk and seasoning. Beat until 
light; put in bakedish in hot oven. The butter substitute is put 
on in small pieces after baked. Serve in dish in which it is baked. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash 34 peck small sweet potatoes, put on with boiling water 
and boil 20 minutes. Drain and skin. Brush pan with drippings. 
Place the sweet potatoes on, dust with 1 teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon 
pepper, y2 cup brown sugar and put butter in small pieces over 
top. Put in moderate oven 15 minutes, or until nicely glazed and 
browni. 



SALADS AND DRESSINGS 



EGG SALAD 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 cup shredded lettuce. 

y2 cup mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

1/4 cup French dressing flavored with onions. 

Salt and pepper. 

Line shallow bowl or salad plates with lettuce. Separate the 
eggs; slice the whites into narrow, long strips and put on the 
lettuce. Rub the yolks thru a coarse strainer or fruit press over 
the whites. Sprinkle with salt and paprika ; put the mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing on in 2 or 3 small mounds, then put a tablespoon 
of French dressing on, or it can be passed and each person can 
put on what he or she likes. 



210 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

DAISY SALAD 

4 hard-boiled eggs, l^ cup French dressing. 
2 cups shredded lettuce. 

Cut the eggs in half, the long way, remove the yolks. Cut 
the whites in narrow strips ; mash the yolks thru a strainer. Put 
a little lettuce on each plate and put about a teaspoonful of the 
yellow right in the center and arrange the pieces of white around 
the yellow, so as to make it look like a daisy. Serve with French 
dressing. The dressing should have a little grated onion in it. 



STUFFED PEPPER SALAD 

2 green peppers. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped peppers. 

1 tablespoon grated onions. 

% teaspoon curry powder or dry mustard. 
4 stuffed olives. 

2 cups cold boiled rice or mashed potatoes. 
% cup mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 
Shredded or whole lettuce leaves. 

The peppers should be the long, thin kind. The tops are cut 
off at the stem end, washed and all seeds and white fiber re- 
moved. The pepper is chopped fine and added to the rice with the 
onion, curry powder and dressing. Mix well and fill the pepper 
and press very firm. Set in cold place. Line bowl with shredded 
lettuce and with sharp knife cut the pepper into i^-inch rings and 
lay on lettuce. Garnish top with the olives that have been cut in 
3 rings. 

RING SALAD 

1 cup rice. 4 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley or green peppers. 
% cup French dressing or mayonnaise. 

4 stuffed olives. 

Boil the rice as usual; blanch vsdth cold water; dust with 1 
teaspoon salt and a little pepper. The rice should be boiled sev- 
eral hours before using and put in a very cold place. 

Line bowl or chop plate with shredded lettuce ; pile the rice 
in center; cut the eggs in half crosswise; remove the yolk and cut 
the whites in very fine rings; lay them around the rice, overlap- 
ping each other. Rub the jrolk thru coarse strainer over top of 
rice; pour the French dressing over; sprinkle with the parsley; 
cut each olive in 4 rings and garnish the top of salad. Shredded 
lettuce around the edge of bowl or plate makes it very attractive. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 211 

TOMATO ASPIC, MARQUISE DRESSING 

1 quart can tomatoes. 

2 tablespoons gelatin. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

^ teaspoon paprika. 

4 cups shredded lettuce. 

V2 cup mayonnaise or salad dressing of choice. 

Mash the tomatoes thru wire strainer; put on and boil; add 
seasoning and sugar. As soon as it begins to boil remove from 
fire and add the gelatin, which has been soaked with 14 cup of 
cold water; stir until the gelatin is dissolved; then rinse 6 or 8 
mustard cups or the individual tin tomato molds. Put the cups 
or molds on tray and fill with the tomatoes and set in cold place 
until firm. If for the evening meal, make it immediately after 
breakfast, or it can be made the evening before. Before removing, 
dip the cup or mold into hot water a few minutes, loosen edge 
with knife and turn out on the shredded lettuce. Surround with 
2 tablespoons of marquise dressing and 1 teaspoon of mayonnaise 
on top of tomato mold. 

Marquise dressing: To 1 cup of very finely chopped parsley 
add % cup of finely chopped onion and cover with olive oil. It 
must stand at least 2 hours before using to marinate thoroly; 
then add salt and pepper to taste and 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 
tarragon vinegar or plain vinegar. This makes a delicious dinner 
salad. 



KIDNEY BEAN SALAD 

Put 1 quart of kidney beans to soak overnight in 2 quarts of 
cold water. Drain and put on with 2 quarts boiling water and boil 
slowly 3 hours, or until tender. 

Drain and blanch with cold water; mix with i/^ cup finely cut 
onions which have been marinated with 2 tablespoons of oil for 
2 hours. Line bowl with shredded lettuce ; put in the beans and 
onions and serve with French dressing. Garnish with strips of 
cooked carrot or pickled red beet. 



CREAM MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

To mayonnaise dressing add, just before serving, i^ cup 
heavy cream beaten stiff. 



212 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

ORANGE SALAD IN ORANGE CUPS 

2 oranges. 8 marshmallows. 
1 slice canned pineapple. Chopped parsley. 
y^ cup white grapes. 14 cup nut meats. 
Pimento. Fruit salad dressing. Lettuce. 

Cut oranges in half; remove pulp carefully; then pull out all 
membrane, leaving orange cups ; cut pineapple, marshmallow and 
nuts in small pieces ; skin and seed the grapes before measuring 
and mix all with orange pulp and a little dressing. Fill orange 
cups; cover with dressing, and cross two strips of pimento on the 
dressing. Place half a grape on center of salad and a bit of 
chopped parsley between the strips of pimento on the dressing. 



FRINGED CELERY SALAD 

1 quart celery cut into 2-inch pieces. 
4 cups shredded lettuce. 
% cup mayonnaise or dressing of choice. 
1 hard-boiled egg. 

Cut the thick celery into 2-inch pieces; make 5 or 6 parallel 
cuts on each end ; put in bowl or cold water with a piece of ice, 
and let it stand 1 hour; drain and shake dry. Put lettuce in center 
of plate and the celery around the edge ; cover vsdth mayonnaise 
and finely chopped egg; sprinkle top with salt and paprika. 



APPLE AND FRESH GRATED COCOANUT SALAD 

4 cups chopped apples. 

1 cup fresh grated cocoanut. 
4 cups shredded lettuce. 

2 tablespoons oil. 1 level teaspoon salt. 

1. teaspoon dry mustard. 1 teaspoon sugar. 
% cup vinegar. 

Mix the apples and cocoanut, reserving 2 tablespoons of 
cocoanut to sprinkle over top. 

Make a dressing of 14 cup vinegar, mixing the dry ingredients 
until smooth with a little vinegar, add the oil, boil 3 minutes. 
Line dish with lettuce, cover with apple and cocoanut; cover with 
the dressing and sprinkle with cocoanut. Dust with paprika. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 213 

SPINACH SALAD 

1/^ peck spinach or 3 cups cold boiled spinach. 

1 teaspoon onion juice. Dash pepper. 

2 cups shredded lettuce. 1 hard-boiled egg. 
^ cup mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

Wash, clean and boil the spinach as usual; drain and let it 
stand a long time in the colander; press the water out with back 
of spoon ; when quite dry chop, not too fine, and add onion, salt, 
pepper and the yolk of hard-boiled egg that has been mashed fine 
and the dressing. Take up a heaping teaspoonful and form into 
round balls. 

Line plate with shredded lettuce and place the balls on it. 
Sprinkle the balls with the finely chopped white of egg. This is 
a very attractive salad. 



POTATO, EGG AND BEET SALAD 

1 quart boiled potatoes. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. Cup pickled beets. 
2 teaspoons finely cut parsley. 

1 tablespoon finely cut onion. 
1 teaspoon salt. Dash paprika. 
% cup salad dressing. 

Dice the potatoes very small; separate the eggs; chop the 
whites fine; add half the parsley, onion, seasoning and dressing. 
Mix together very lightly; pile in center of bowl; garnish the edge 
with chopped pickled beets and rub the yolks of eggs thru strainer 
over the top of potatoes; sprinkle with parsley and dust with 
paprika. The amount of salad dressing is a matter of taste. 



CHICKEN SALAD 

4 cups cold boiled chicken. 

2 cups finely cut celery. 

W2 cups mayonnaise. 

4 cups shredded lettuce or lettuce leaves. 

Salt, pepper and paprika. 

y2 cup stuff ed olives. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Mix chicken, celery and half mayonnaise. Season to taste 
and put on salad dish that has been lined with lettuce. Cover with 
the remainder of mayonnaise, sprinkle with paprika and garnish 
with sliced eggs and sliced olives. 



214 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING 

3 tablespoons mayonnaise dressing. 
2 tablespoons olive oil. 
1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
1 tablespoon tomato catsup. 

1 teaspoon chopped green pepper. 

2 drops tabasco sauce. 

Add ingredients very slowly to mayonnaise dressing, stirring 
constantly. 

THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING 

i^ cup olive oil. Juice of i^ lemon. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

8 sliced olives. 8 cooked chestnuts. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. % teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

^ teaspoon mustard. 

Remove shells from chestnuts and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft; then cool and cut in thin slices. Put all the in- 
gredients in a pint glass jar, cover and shake until smooth and 
slightly thickened. Serve on southern lettuce, cut in quarters, 
that has been carefully washed and drained. 

The reason for using so little oil is that the cocoanut is rich 
in fat. This makes a very good and wholesome luncheon salad. 



DESSERTS 



PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 

2 cups grated pineapple. 
2 cups whipping cream. 
1^ cups sugar. 
Ice and salt for freezing. 

Put the grated pineapple in saucepan over fire, add the sugar, 
stirring until the sugar is melted; then mash thru wire strainer. 
Whip the cream until dry and slowly fold in the cold pineapple. 
Rinse mold in cold water, put on lid and pack in finely cracked 
ice and salt. It should stand 2 or 3 hours before using. Wipe 
mold with cloth which has been wrung out of cold water before 
opening. It can be garnished with conserved fruits and whipped 
cream or sprigs of maidenhair fern. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 215 

SULTANA ROLL 

1 quart single cream. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup sultana raisins or chopped seeded raisins. 

1/2 cup blanched and finely chopped almonds. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. Yz cup orange juice. 

1 tablespoon vanilla extract. 

1 teaspoon almond extract. A few grains salt. 

Put half the cream and sugar in top of double boiler, stir 
until sugar is dissolved. Beat the yolks of eggs until light, add to 
the cream and sugar. Put over fire and stir until it gets thick; 
it must not boil. Wash and dry the sultana raisins and cover 
with orange juice 1 hour. The almonds are best put thru a meat 
chopper. When cream and eggs are cold add nuts and flavoring. 
The other half of cream put into freezer and churn 10 minutes; 
add the raisins and orange juice, turn 3 minutes; remove dasher 
and fill into mold, ice it, or it can be served in glasses with a sauce 
separate. Canned strawberries, cherries or raspberries mixed 
with whipped cream make a good sauce. Or it can be served 
with whipped cream and garnished on top and around edge of 
mold. 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

3 eggs. Icup maple syrup. 
1 pint whipping cream. 

Put the maple syrup on in top of a double boiler; when it 
is at the boiling point pour over the well-beaten eggs, beat for 3 
minutes. When cold, add to the cream, which has been whipped; 
mix all together very lightly; put into ijiold, which has been rinsed 
with cold water. Pack in ice and salt and stand for 2 hours. 



CARAMEL CUSTARD PUDDING 

3 eggs. 2 cups milk or rice stock. 

14 teaspoon salt. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute, flavoring to taste. 

Beat the eggs, yolks and whites together; add the sugar, 
salt and milk; beat well; brush 6 small custard cups with the but- 
ter substitute, put in ^^ teaspoon of caramel (melted and browned 
sugar) and shake the cup, then pour in the custard. Place cups 
in pan of warm water; put in oven and bake 20 minutes or until 
you can put a silver knife in center and it comes out dry. 

Caramel: Put 4 teaspoons sugar into small frypan and melt 
until light brown. 



216 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

MAPLE CUSTARD 

3 eggs. 

3 cups milk. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon butter or butter substitute. 

4 tablespoons maple syrup. 

Beat the eggs; add the syrup, salt and milk; mix well; brush 
custard cups with butter or butter substitute; pour in mixture. 
Put the cups in pan of hot water and place in moderate oven; 
bake 20 minutes or until you can put a silver knife in the center 
and upon removing find it dry. Turn out on sauce dish when cold, 
and cover with 1 tablespoon grated maple syrup before serving. 

SYLLABUB 

1 cup whipping cream. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
y2 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons tart red jelly. 

Mix jelly, lemon juice and sugar together. Whip the cream 
until thick; then fold the mixture into cream. Put into ice cream 
glasses and garnish top with tiny piece of red jelly. 

PINK DELIGHT 

Into the whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff, beat 2 tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and 1 cup of strawberry jam. Set on the ice 
until chilled. Serve in glasses. This is a simple dessert, but it 
delights the eye as well as the palate. I have used red raspberry 
jam, pineapple or orange marmalade in place of the strawberry 
with excellent results. 

DESSERT MADE FROM CANNED FRUIT 

An especially good dessert is made from breadcrumbs and 
canned peaches. 

1 cup crushed breadcrumbs. 

6 halves of canned peaches. 

1 cup syrup from peaches. 

1 cup thin custard. 

Put half the crumbs in bottom of shallow glass bowl; cover 
with the peaches ; put the remainder of crumbs over top of peaches 
and pour the syrup over the top; if not very sweet, a little more 
sugar is sprinkled over top ; or a cup of whipped cream can be 
used; or if there is an egg white on hand, whip until light with 
1 tablespoonful of sugar; put over top and dry in oven. 

This is very easily made; any rich canned fruit can be used. 
It will make a can of fruit go much further than if served alone. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 217 

APPLE SAUCE GELATIN 

2 cups sweetened apple sauce. 

1 tablespoon gelatin, y^ cup sugar. 

Strain the apple sauce, have it hot and add the gelatin that has 
been dissolved in i^ cup of water. Add sugar and a little grated 
nutmeg and mix well. Pour into square dish or brick pan that 
has been rinsed in cold water. Set away to get cold and firm, then 
cut into slices or square blocks. This can be served -with custard 
sauce or rich milk. 

HONEY CUP CUSTARD 

2 eggs. 

2 cups milk. 
Pinch of salt. 
2 tablespoons honey. 
y2 teaspoon butter. 

Warm the honey and add to the milk. Beat the eggs until 
well mixed and add to the honey and milk; add few grains of salt. 
Brush 6 custard cups with butter, fill nearly to top; place, in pan 
of hot water ; put in oven and bake until firm. Put silver knife in 
center; if it comes out dry the custards are done. 

P. S. — No flavor is needed with honey. 



SAUCES 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon onion juice. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped or grated carrot. 

l^ cup stock, l^ cup milk. 

1 tea^oon salt, % teaspoon paprika. 

1 tablespoon chopped parley or lemon juice. 

Put butter and onion in pan over fire and heat thru. Remove 
from fire and add flour; rub until smooth. Add milk and stock 
and boil 3 minutes. Ad'd salt, paprika, parsley or lemon juice ; the 
carrot is boiled with the lamb broth. 



218 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FRUIT FOAMY SAUCE 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff and gradually add to them i/^ 
cup of powdered sugar, a bit of salt and the grated rind and juice 
of an orange. The orange pulp may be cut in 5 pieces and folded 
into the sauce. Other fruit juice or pulp or jelly may be used in 
the same way, adding as much as the eggs will take up. Such a 
sauce lacking in fat is well adapted to a suet pudding. It should 
not be made until just before serving. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Soften 2 ounces of butter and blend it with i/^ cup of fine 
granulated or powdered sugar, flavor as desired, then gradually 
work in 14 to V2 cup of thick cream. Fruit sjrrup may take the 
place of cream for a pudding which contains little or no fruit. 

OYSTER SAUCE FOR FISH OR POULTRY 

2-5 small oysters. 

1 tablespoon butter or butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Dash paprika. 

Drain the oysters ; put into saucepan ; boil until the edges curl. 
Rub butter and flour until smooth and add to the oysters. Boil 3 
minutes and add seasonings. When recipe says rub butter and 
flour together, always have the butter soft, not melted; it is much 
easier to make smooth and takes less time. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

1 can tomatoes. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
1 teaspoon butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 
Pepper to taste. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Boil the tomatoes very slowly until quite thick ; add seasoning 
and flour; boil 5 minutes. 

CHEESE DAINTY TO SERVE WITH SALAD 

Mash the cream cheese and season with salt and pepper, add 
a little cold milk, if needed; spread on plate which has been 
brushed with melted butter 1^ inch thick. Cut in diamonds; in 
center of each place a ring of stuffed olives (1 olive cut into 4 
rings) ; remove with spatula ; place on salted crackers or on a small 
lettuce leaf. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK . 219 

A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

2 cups of cottage cheese. 

y2 cup peanut butter. 

2 cups mashed potatoes. 

2 tablespoons white cornmeal. 

legg. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped green pepper. 

1 tablespoon scraped onion. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon drippings. 

Mix the cheese and peanut butter until smooth, add the hot 
potatoes that are put thru the fruit press or mashed thru strainer ; 
add onion, pepper and seasoning. Beat the egg until light, add 
(saving 1 teaspoon of the egg to brush top of cups), mix all well, 
brush custard cups with drippings and fill with mixture. Brush 
top with egg and sprinkle with cornmeal. Put into hot oven until 
brown, turn out on chop plate and serve with white or tomato 
sauce. 



CHEESE DISHES 



CHEESE PUDDING (A Meat Substitute) 

2 cups (% pound) grated cheese. 

2 cups milk. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

34 teaspoon paprika. 

6 slices bread. 

Butter the bread and put 3 pieces in casserole; sprinkle with 
half the cheese and dust with salt and pepper. Put in the other 
3 pieces of buttered bread and the remainder of cheese and pour 
the milk over all. Place in a moderate oven and bake 30 minutes. 

The slices of bread must be cut 5 inches long and 4 inches wide 
and y2 inch thick. There must be just enough bread to absorb the 
milk. 



220 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CHEESE CUTLET 

2 cups chopped cheese. 
2 cups breadcrumbs. 
1 cup white sauce. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
% teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 

2 tablespoons tomato catsup. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. 

2 eggs. 

Put cheese, breadcrumbs and sauce in top of double boiler, 
add seasoning and flouring and 1 well-beaten egg; mix well and 
when it comes to the boiling point remove from fire; pour on flat 
dish and when cold take a tablespoonful into floured hands; shape 
into gmall cutlets. When all are formed, set in cool place for 1 
hour, then dip in egg which has been mixed with 1 tablespoon of 
milk, then in breadcrumbs; fry in hot drippings or cooling oil. 
Serve with tomato sauce flavored with a little onion or white 
sauce. This is an exceptionally attractive and wholesome dish. 

CHEESE PUFFS 

2 tablespoons butter. 

14 cup boiling water. 

1/4 cup of grated cheese. 

legg. 

% cup flour. 

I*ut butter and water in saucepan, when boiling add salt, a 
pinch of pepper and flour, stir until the mixture cleaves to the 
spoon. Remove from the fire and add the cheese and egg; beat 
well. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a buttered baking sheet, sprinkle 
with grated cheese and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 
salad. 

HOT TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Cut bread thin, spread thinly with either butter substitute or 
butter; then spread 1 piece with cheese mixture; press together, 
put in oven or over coal fire and toast slowly a nice brown, or put 
into hot oven. The cheese mixture is made as follows: 1 cup grated 
cheese, 1 rounded teaspoon dry mustard, i/^ level teaspoon salt, 14 
teaspoon paprika. Mix and set over warm water. 

CREAM CHEESE, PEAR SHAPE 

Mix 2 cheeses (cream) with a little cold milk, i/4 teaspoon salt, 
a dash white pepper and a dash paprika. Form into pear shapes ; 
place a clove at end to form the stem and press in a clove at end 
to form blossom. Cover the pears with paprika. Serve on a 
cracker on a cheese and cracker plate. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 221 

CHEESE-FILLED CELERY FOR SALADS 

Season cream cheese with salt to taste; mix and fill into small 
hollows of celery tips. Dust with paprika and very finely chopped 
parsley. These are very attractive if served on the salad whetiher 
served individually or around the edge of a large bowl. 

CREAM CHEESE BALLS FOR MARCH 17TH 

One cream cheese mixed with a little salt, pepper and paprika, 
and milk enough to handle. Divide the cheese into 8 parts, form 
into balls and ro-ll in finely chopped parsley. Serve on crackers. 

CREAM CHEESE FOR SALAD DECORATION 

1 cream cheese. 

1 tablespoon peanut butter. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup finely shredded outside lettuce leaves. 

Mix the cheese, peanut butter and salt together. It must be 
the consistency that it can be rolled into balls. There should be 
12 balls. Shape the balls into eggs and put the shredded lettuce 
on cheese plate, placing the cheese eggs on top. 



CAKES 



COCOA SPICE CAKES 

^ cup cocoa. 

1 cup sugar. 
y2 cup water. 

2 eggs. 

% cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

14 teaspoon ground nutmeg. 

% teaspoon cinnamon. 

14 teaspoon ground allspice. 

14 teaspoon ground mace. 

Mix the cocoa, sugar and water together until the sugar is 
dissolved, then add the yolks of eggs beaten until light. Sift the 
flour, bakiivg powder, a pinch of salt and spices together; add and 
mix well. Then add the whites of eggs beaten until stiff and mix 
very lightly. Brush gem pans with melted shortening, put 1 
tablespoon of mixture in each and bake 18 to 20 minutes in hot 
oven. 



222 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CREAM PUFFS, LEMON FILLING 

2 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup boiling water. 

1 cup pastry flour. 3 eggs. 

Add the butter to the boiling water; sift in the flour, stir 
well and beat 3 minutes, then set aside to cool. When cold break 
inl egg ; mix well and beat about 3 minutes. Add each egg in the 
same manner; be sure that one is well beaten in before adding the 
next. When all the eggs have been added beat 5 minutes. Brush 
pan and put the dough on in tablespoonfuls well apart. Bake 30 
minutes in a hot oven. This amount makes 12 puffs. 

Filling 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

% teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

2 cups milk. 

6 tablespoons sugar. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 egg. 

Boil the milk, wet the cornstarch with 1 tablespoon of cold 
milk. Beat the egg, cornstarch, sugar together and add to the 
boiling milk; set aside to cool; then add the lemon juice and rind. 
Put slit in side of puff and fill. Dust with sugar and serve. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE, ORANGE FILLING 

^ cup shortening. 

2 cups sugar. 
1 cup milk. 

3 egg whites. 

3% cups flour. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar together until light; add the milk 
very slowly and keep beating all the time. Sift flour and bak- 
ing powder together, add half, then the whites of eggs, which 
have been beaten light, and the rest of flour. Bake in 2 jelly 
tins on paper in moderately hot oven 20 to 25 minutes. 

Orange Filling Is Made as Follows; 

1 cup orange juice. 

^2 cup sugar. 

3 egg yolks. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Put the orange juice in top of double boiler; mix the flour 
with a little cold water until smooth; add the well-beaten yolks 
of eggs and sugar; then add to the orange juice and stir until it 
boils and is thick and creamy. The icing on top is a mat- 
ter of taste. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 223 

PRUNE SHORT CAKE 

1 cup stewed prunes. 
1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 
% teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon shortening. 

2 teaspoons butter or oleomargarine. 
34 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl, add shorten- 
ing and rub in lightly with tips of fingers; add milk to make a 
soft dough ; put on pietin and spread 1 inch thick ; place in hot 
oven and bake 20 minutes; split and spread both pieces with 
butter, on the bottom piece put the prunes, which have been 
mashed fine, sprinkle with sugar. Serve warm with milk 
and sugar. 

BAKING POWDER CINNAMON CAKE 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

14 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 
^ cup raisins. 

2 tablespoons shortening. Milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt and half the sugar into bowl; 
add shortening and rub in very lightly. Add the raisins, then 
milk enough to make a stiff dough. Put in a greased shallow 
pan ; brush top with butter and sprinkle with remainder of sugar, 
mixed with cinnamon. Bake 20 minutes. 

SOUR CREAM MOLASSES CAKE 

1 cup sour milk or cream. 

1 cup molasses. 

1 cup brown sugar. 

1 rounded or 2 level teaspoons baking soda. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon ginger. 3 cups flour. 

Put molasses and sugar into bowl; stir until sugar is dis- 
solved, then add cream, salt and spices. Dissolve soda in 1 tea- 
spoon hot water and add. Sift the flour, add and mix well. Line 
bakCT)an wi^ brown paper and bake 45 to 50 minutes, or bake in 
muffin tins. 

One thing must be remembered — a cake made with molasses 
and sour milk takes a little longer to bake. 



224 Mies. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

y2 cup butter or shortening. 1 cup sugar. 1 cup raisins. 

1 cup currants. 1% cups sifted flour. 

1 level teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

% teaspoon cloves. 1 cup hot, thick apple sauce. 

Mix in the usual manner; bake in a tubs pan lined with but- 
tered paper nearly V-/2 hours. The heat of the oven should 
be moderate. 

DAINTY BANANA ROLLS 

A rich biscuit dough is used and rolled thin and cut in 4-inch 
squares. A half of banana is put in center and sprinkled with 
sugar, 14 teaspoon butter or substitute and a teaspoon of red jelly 
is put on top of banana. The edges are wet, roll the banana in the 
dough, brush top with egg and milk; sprinkle with granulated 
sugar, place in a moderate oven and bake 30 to 35 minutes. 

Note: The top may be sprinkled with a few chopped nuts if 
they are on hand. This amount makes 12 rolls. 

MARGUERITES 

12 small soda crackers. 

1 tablespoon currant jelly (or any tart jelly) . 

2 egg whites. 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar. 

Spread crackers with jelly; beat the egg whites until dry; add 
the sugar, beat a few minutes ; spread on top of jellied crackers, 
rough with fork and dust liberally with pulverized sugar and 
chopped nuts. Put into cool oven to dry; the tops must be firm 
before removing from oven. Always beat the whites of eggs on 
a platter; it takes less time than in a bowl. 

STICKY CINNAMON BUNS 

To 1 quart of good raised dough add % cup sugar, 2 well- 
beaten eggs and 1 tablespoon butter. Roll out 1^ inch thick. Mix 
brown sugar and cinnamon in proportions of 1 cup of sugar to 1 
teaspoon cinnamon. First brush dough with melted butter, then 
sprinkle sugar and cinnamon over, and cleaned currants and 
raisins. Roll same as jelly roll, cut in 23^-inch pieces. Brush sidea 
of pan with melted shortening and cover bottom with brown sugar; 
set buns in so as not to touch. Set to rise same as bre^d. Bake 40 
to 50 minutes. 

They should be 5 inches higji when taken out of oven. Turn 
bottom side up at (Hice. Take % cup of molasses, 3^ cup brown 
sugar, 1 tablespoon of butter and heat all together until sugar is 
m^ted, brush buns thitkly on bottom ; let cool. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 225 

EGOLESS COCOA OR CHOCOLATE CAKES 

1 cup flour. 
y2 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons cocoa. 2 tablespoons coc«anut. 
2 tablespoons shortening. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. Milk. 

Sift ingredients into bowl; add shortening and mix lightly; 
add enough milk to make a soft dough, put on floured board and 
pat ^ inch thick, then cover with cocoanut and cut with small bis- 
cuit cutter. Place on floured pan and put in hot oven 20 minutes. 
Good either warm or cold. 

CRUMB TARTS 

1 cup coarse breadcrumbs. 
1 cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

14 teaspoon salt. ^4 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Line 6 small tart tins or a 5-inch pie plate with the regular pie 
crust and fill with the mixture, which is made as follows : 

Mix crumbs, molasses, lemon and salt; put in crust and dust 
with cinnamon; bake in moderate oven 25 to 30 minutes. Serve 
warm. A half teaspoon of ginger can be used instead of lemon. 



PIES 



RAISIN PIE 

1 cup seeded raisins. 1 cup water. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch or flour. 

1 tablespoon sugar or sugar to taste. ^ level teaspoon salt. 

Wash the raisins, put in saucepan with cold water, bring 
slowly to a boil. Boil 5 minutes, add sugar, salt and cornstarch or 
flour, which has been mixed with a little cold water; boil 3 min- 
utes; pour in pietin, which has been lined with crust, while hot; 
cover; brush top with cold milk. 

Crust 

1% cups flour. 

% teaspoon salt. 3 tablespoons shortening. 

Sift flour and salt together ; add shortening, rubbing in very 
lightly with tips of fingers; add a little very cold water, just 
enough to hold together. The less you handle the dough the better 
the crust will be. 



226 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

MOCK MINCE PIE 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

2 cups finely cut apples. 

2 tablespoons chopped beef suet. 

% teaspoon. cinnamon. % teaspoon ginger. 

% teaspoon salt. % cup brown sugar. 

Wash and dry the raisins; put them thru a food chopper; 
place in a saucepan with 1 cup of water, and boil 5 minutes. Re- 
move from the fire and add the rest of the ingredients. When cold, 
it is used in the same way as mince meat. This makes a very good 
mince meat substitute. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE 

1 can fresh grated cocoanut. 
% cup sugar. Pinch of salt. 
% cup milk. 2 eggs. 

Beat eggs, milk, sugar and salt together; add can of cocoanut; 
pour into pietin lined with pie crust. Bake in moderate oven on 
bottom rack 30 to 35 minutes, or until set. Try with silver knife. 
If knife comes out dry, the pie is done ; if the custard and cocoanut 
separate, it has baked too long. This fills a 7-inch pieplate of 
regular depth. 

BOSTON CREAM PIE 

1% cups flour. 

2 level teaspoons baking powder. 
^ level teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. % cup milk. 

legg. 

2 tablespoons melted shortening. 

Sift dry ingredients, add milk, egg and shortening; mix well. 
Brush 2 layer cake pans with melted shortening; dust with flour; 
pour in mixture and smooth top; put in hot oven and bake 
15 minutes. 

Note : The mixture may be baked in 1 pan, then split and 
filled with following mixture: 

Fillmg 

2 cups milk. 

2 rounded tablespoons cornstarch. 

3 tablespoons sugar. Pinch salt, 
legg. 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract or flavoring to taste. 

Put the milk on to boil ; mix cornstarch,, sugar and salt with a 
little milk and add well-beaten egg, then add to the boiling milk. 
Boil 3 minutes. When partly cooled, spread between layers. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 227 

APPLE TART 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespaon shortening. 

A few grains salt. 6 apples. 

1/4 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoon butter or oleomargarine. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Sift the flour and salt into bowl; add the shortening and rub 
in very lightly ; add just enough cold water to hold together. Place 
on floured board and roll out ^4 inch thick. Line pie plate. Wash, 
pare, quarter and core the apples, place on dough cut side down ; 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and butter broken in small 
pieces; bake in hot oven 20 minutes, or until apples are tender. 

APRICOT TART 

2 cups stewed dried apricots. 1 cup flour. 

A few grains salt. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 tablespoon shortening. 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt into bowl ; add shortening and 
rub in very lightly; add enough cold water to hold together, place 
on floured board, roll out very thin, then cover pie plate. Sprinkle 
with flour, put in the stewed apricots. The remainder of dough ip 
rolled out thin and cut into warm strips and crisscross over top. 

CRANBERRY TART 

2 cups cranberry sauce. 1 cup flour. 

2 tablespoons shortening. % teaspoon salt. Water. 

Line small tart tins with the regular piecrust, fill with the 
cranberry sauce, which has been mixeg; bake in moderate oven 25 
to 30 minutes. 



PUDDINGS 



DRIED FRUIT PUDDING 
1 cup stewed fruit. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

2 tablespoons chopped beef suet. 

14 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoon butter or butter substitute. 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into bowl ; add suet; 
mix well and add milk and well-beaten egg; beat 2 minutes; add 
apples, peaches or canned cherries ; mix very lightly. Brush 6 cus- 
tard cups with melted butter substitute (heat the cups) ; fill cup 
half full, place in hot oven ; bake 30 minutes. Serve with milk and 
sugar or fruit juice. The cup will be full when baked. 



228 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped beef suet 

1 cup dried breadcrumbs. % cup flour. 

iy2 teaspoons salt. % teaspoon baking powder. 

y2 teaspoon ground cinnamon. 1 egg. 

The dates are separated, washed in cold water, then scalded, 
put into cold water again. It is best to wash them thru 2 or 3 
waters ; put into colander and shake until dry. Remove the stones 
and put thru coarse meat chopper. To the dates add the baking 
powder, suet, breadcrumbs, flour, salt, cinnamon and just enough 
cold water to hold together ; beat the egg until light and add to the 
mixture; mix well and put into melon mold or round bowl and 
place in hot water and boil 1 hour. 

Serve with lemon sauce or any sauce desired. 

RICE PUDDING 

4 tablespoons rice. 1 quart milk. 

1 tablespoon sugar. A little nutmeg. 

Wash the rice thru several waters. Put the cold milk and 
rice in dow oven, cook 1 hour, stirring 4 times in the hour; then 
add the sugar and nutmeg and cook until the rice is tender, which 
will take another half hour, or possibly 1 hour, in a very slow 
oven. Stir 2 or 3 times. When stirring always do it from the bot- 
tom. Be sure that the pudding is creamy and yellow. 

BAKED COCOA PUDDING WITH RAISINS 

2% cups milk. 3 tablespoons flour. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons cocoa. 

4 tablespoons chopped seeded raisins. 

1 teaspoon butter. % teaspoon salt. 

Put 2 cups ©f the milk on to boil ; mix the flour, sugar, cocoa 
and salt with ttie % cup of milk until smooth, add to the boiling 
milk and boil 3 minutes; then add the raisins. Brush bakedish 
with butter, pour in the mixture and bake in moderate oven 30 
minutes. 

This can be served with a cornstarch sauce flavored 
with vanilla. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING 

2 cups cranberries. 1 cup seeded raisins. 
1 cup chopped suet. 1 cup breadcrumbs. 

% cup sugar. 1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. "^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

Wash and cut cranberries in half; mix all dry ingredients to- 
gether; add enough water t® make stiff mixture; brush mold with 
butter. Put the pudding in and place in boiling water. Boil 3^ 
hours. Serve warm with fruit or vanilla sauce. This is a very 
hearty pudding. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 229 

LEMON CRUMB PUDDING 

2 cups dry breadcrumbs. 
2 cups hot milk. 1 cup sugar. 
4 tablespoons lemon juice. 
1 teaspoon lemon rind, grated. 
1 ^gg. A pinch of sa,lt. 
1 teaspoon of butter. 

Put the crumbs in bowl; cover with hot milk; add the salt, 
well-beaten egg, the rind and juice of lemon. Mix well. Brush 
bakedish with a little butter; put in mixture and bake 40 min- 
utes in a slow oven. Serve plain or with a hot lemon sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING WITH FRUIT SAUCE 

1 can peaches. 1% cups flour. 

2 teaspoons best baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 cup milk. 1 egg. 
1 tablespoon melted shortening. 
y2 cup sugar. 
% teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add milk, well- 
beaten egg and melted shortening; mix well ; add the peaches; mix 
lightly; brush mold or kettle with oil or drippings; pour in mix- 
ture, cover and put in kettle of boiling water; boil 2 hours. 



Fruit Sauce 

The fruit juice is put in saucepan, brought to boil and thick- 
ened with a little cornstarch ; add sugar to taste and % teaspoon of 
dried, grated orange peel is added. 



HONEY GRAHAM OR CORNMEAL PUDDING 

% cup honey. Y^ cup milk. 

y2 cup seeded raisins. 

2 tablespoons melted butter or oleomargarine. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 cups graham flour or li/^ cups commeaL 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Put the honey, milk, melted shortening and egg into bowl; 
beat 3 minutes ; add salt, half the sifted flour and baking powder, 
then the seeded raisins and the remainder of the flour. Put into 
greased mold or kettle and place in saucepan of boiling water. 
Boil 2y2 to 3 hours. Serve hot with fruit juice or honey. 



230 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

HASTY PUDDING 

Put 1 quart of water on to boil in top of double boiler; when 
boiling add 1 teaspoon salt and 1 cup cornmeal slowly. Boil 1 
hour, stirring often. This is just plain boiled mush. Why not try 
it with maple syrup, maple sugar, brown sugar or just molasses? 



APRICOT PUDDING 

2 tablespoons granulated tapioca. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon red jelly. 14 tablespoon salt. 

y2 teaspoon almond flavor or flavor of choice. 

3 cups milk. 

1 cup stewed dried apricots. 

1 cup custard. 1 egg. 

Boil the tapioca in 2 cups of milk until clear. When cool, add 
2 tablespoons sugar, salt and flavoring. Put the stewed apricots 
in glass bowl, cover with the tapioca, and when cold and firm, cover 
with the custard sauce. Garnish with red jelly. 

Sauce is made as follows: 

Beat the egg until well mixed, add 1 tablespoon of sugar, a 
few grains of salt, flavoring to taste and milk. Put over hot water 
and stir until it thickens. This is both attractive and tasty. 



BREAD PUDDING 

1 quart milk. 

4 slices stale bread 4 inches square, cut rather thin. 
Pinch of salt. Flavoring to taste. 

2 teaspoons butter or butter substitute. 
14 cup sugar. 

Spread the bread with butter, put into bakedish and cover 
with the custard made from egg, milk, sugar, salt and flavoring. 
Put in moderate oven and bake until custard is set. 

Note : If a meringue is wanted, 3 eggs are needed ; separate 
and use the yolks for the custard, the whites are beaten until dry 
with 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar and spread over the 
top of the pudding after it is baked; dust with sugar and slightly 
brown in a very moderate oven. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 231 

STEAMED DUMPLINGS, BROWN SUGAR AND CARAMEL SAUCE 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. Milk. 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt; add just enough milk 
to hold together. Take a spoonful up in floured hands and form 
into a ball. Fill shallow pan two-thirds full of water, when boiling 
put in the dumplings, cover and boil 10 minutes. Remove from 
pan with skimmer on to hot chop plate and serve with brown 
sugar caramel sauce. 

Caramel sauce : Put 1 cup water into saucepan, when boiling 
add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, 1 table- 
spoon caramel and 1 teaspoon cornstarch wet with a little cold 
water, boil 3 minutes. 

CRUMB-FRUIT PUDDING CARAMEL SAUCE 

2 cups breadcrumbs. 

% cup seeded raisins or dates. 

Ys cup brown sugar. 2 cups milk. 

1 cup rice stock. 2 eggs. 

y2 level teaspoon salt. 

y2 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon butter or oleomargarine. 

Wash, dry and chop the raisins, put in bowl, add breadcrumbs, 
sugar, salt, nutmeg, milk and rice stock. Separate the eggs, add 
yolks and stir until well mixed. Brush pudding pan with butter, 
put in mixture, put the rest of butter on top and bake 45 to 50 
minutes in moderate oven. It must be firm and done thru. Beat 
the whites of eggs until dry, add 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar, 
spread over top of pudding, dust with powdered sugar, set in 
oven until light brown and dry. This pudding is firm and must 
be served with a sauce, either caramel, fruit or sauce of choice. 

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 

l^ cup molasses. % cup cold water. 

3^ cup flour. 1 egg. % cup raisins. 

1 level teaspoon baking soda. 

1 level teaspoon cinnamon. 

Pinch of cloves or % teaspoon ginger. 

Pinch salt. 

Mix all ingredients together; put into taiold or kettle which 
has been brushed with a little butter and steam 3 hours; serve 
with lemon or hard sauce. 



232 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

PRUNES AND FARINA PUDDING 

2 cups pranes. 1 cup farina. 2 cups milk. 

% cup brown sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

^ teaspoon grated orange peel. 

Put 2 cups of water on to boil, add the farina slowly, boil until 
thick; add the salt, milk, and boil in top of double boiler 1 hour. 
Wash and soak the prunes overnight; dry and cut in half, remov- 
ing stone, and add to farina; pour into bowl, sprinkle with sugar 
and dust with a little cinnamon. Serve for luncheon. 



COMBINATION DISHES 



WINTER SPINACH WITH MEAT AND RICE 

14 peck spinach. 1 cup rice. 1 cup cold meat. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoon butter or substitute. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon paprika. 

Wash and boil the spinach as usual; drain and chop; add the 
cream sauce, all but 2 tablespoons. Mix well and put in center of 
platter. Boil the rice as usual, drain and blanch with hot water; 
put around the spinach. The cold meat is put thru the meat chop- 
per, add the 2 tablespoons cream sauce or gravy, the breadcruml^, 
parsley, and season to taste. Form into small round balls, place 
on pietin, which has been brushed with drippings. Put in hot 
oven 10 minutes or until firm, then place between the spinach and 
rice. Garnish the edge with sprigs of parsley. This makes a very 
good and attractive dish. 

SPINACH PLATTER MEAL 

14 peck spinach. 14 pound thinly sliced bacon. 
1 cup rice. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon cut onion. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoons salt. Dash paprika. 

Wash, clean and boil the spinach as usual ; drain in a colander 
and press out the water and chop the spinach. Sprinkle with % 
teaspoon salt and put on center of chop plate. 

Wash and boil and blanch the rice as usual and sprinkle with 
1 teaspoon of salt, and put on the palate around the spinach, fry the 
bacon and lay the slices on the spinach; add to the drippings the 
onion and fry until the onion is tender, but not brown ; add the 
flour, stir until smootll, then add 1 cup of the spinach stock ; boil 3 
minutes. If the bacon is not very salty, add 1^ teaspoon salt to the 
sauce; pour the sauce over the rice and spinach and garnish with 
chopped parsley, 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 233 

SPINACH, EGGS, RICE AND SMOKED PORK 

1 pound smoked pork. 

1/4 peck spinach. 

3 eggs. 

1 cup rice. 

11/^ teaspoons salt. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Spinach is boiled as usual in very little water until tender, 
then drained. 

The rice is boiled and blanched as usual 

The eggs are hard-boiled in same boiler with the rice. 

The neck of pork is cut in thin slices same as bacon, fried nice 
and crisp and removed from pan. To the pan add the flour, mix 
until smooth and add 1 cup of water in which the spinach was 
boiled. 

How to serve : Put the spinach in center of chop plate, sprin- 
kle with a little salt; the rice is put around the spinach and is 
sprinkled with salt, the fried smoked pork is put on spinach and 
the sauce is poured over the top. A whole dinner on one dish which 
can be prepared in 30 to 35 minutes. Spinach and rice are boiled 
at the same time, and while they are boiling the meat is fried and 
sauce is made. 



SMOTHERED LAMB CHOPS WITH SPINACH 

2 pounds neck lamb or mutton cops. 

34 peck spinach. 

y2 cup finely cut carrot. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Ys teaspoon pepper. 

Put the lamb or mutton chops in Dutch oven with a little 
drippings, sear (brown) on both sides; add the onion, salt and pep- 
per. When brown and dry, add 1 cup of hot water. Cover and 
cook very slowly 1 hour or until tender. Add a little water if 
needed. Remove chop to center of plate and make the gravy by 
adding flour and water, if needed. 

The spinach is boiled as usual, drained until dry. With fork 
place the spmach around the chops, alternating with the mashed 
potatoes. This makes a very attractive and wholesome dish. 



234 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

SPINACH WITH EGGS AND DRIED BEEF 

14 peck spinach. 

4 eggs. 

y^ pound dried beef. 

1 cup white sauce. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Paprika. 

Parsley. 

Wash, clean and boil the spinach as usual with little or no 
water ; if young, boil 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, sprinkle with a little 
salt ; chop just a little, then put on center of chop plate. 

Poach or steam the eggs ; put on top of spinach ; sprinkle with 
salt arid paprika ; put the creamed dried beef around the edge. 



SPINACH GOLDENROD 

1/4 peck spinach. 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1^ pound thinly sliced bacon. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 

2 tablespoons flour. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash paprika. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice or vinegar. 

Drain the spinach until dry and add 1 cup of sauce; mix well; 
put in center of platter; chop the whites of eggs fine and put 
around the spinach. Above the egg put the bacon, which has been 
fried crisp ; in center put the yolk of 1 egg mashed thru strainer 
and dust all with paprika. Sauce is made as usual. 



POTATO-PEANUT CROQUETTES, APPLE SAUCE 

1 quart hot mashed potatoes. 

1 cup peanut butter. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon grated onion or y2 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped green peppers, celery or parsley. 

Add the peanut butter and seasoning to the hot mashed pota- 
toes; mix well Take a spioonful and shape into croquettes; dip 
in beaten egg and breadcrumbs and fry in deep, hot drippings or 
oil. Serve with warm apple sauce. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 235 

RICE WITH CREAMED EGGS 

1 cup rice. 4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon white pepper. 

34 teaspoon paprika. 

The rice is boiled as usual. Put the butter substitute into 
saucepan, melt, add flour and parsley, mix well and add the cold 
milk slowly, stirring until smooth and creamy; then add the salt, 
pepper and boil 3 minutes. Chop the eggs (yolks and whites to- 
gether) and add to the cream sauce. 

Serve on bed of rice, garnish with sprigs of parsley and dust 
with paprika. 

RICE AND PEANUT BUTTER CONES 

1 cup rice. 1 cup peanut butter. 

1 teaspoon salt, i/^ cup milk. 1 egg. 

Wash the rice as usual; put on in 2 quarts of boiling water; 
boil 20 minutes, drain and put rice in top of double boiler with 
milk and salt. Boil 20 minutes; remove from fire, add peanut 
butter and well-beaten egg. Mix well and when cold form into 
cones (croquette shape) ; place in buttere. > pietin ; put in hot oven 
15 minutes, or until brown. This makes 9 large cones, and can 
be served with cream sauce if desired. This is a very wholesome 
dish for luncheon for school children. 



LENTEN AND EGG DISHES 



A GOOD DISH FOR THE MEATLESS MEAL 

1 cup (1^ pound) rice. 

2 cups stewed tomatoes. 
1^ cup finely cut onion. 

1 cup (1/4 lb.) grated American cheese. 

2 tablespoons drippings. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the drippings and onion into pan ; fry until cooked but not 
brown; then add the rice, which has been washed, boiled and 
blanched as usual, the tomatoes and salt ; cook 10 minutes. Spread 
on platter, cover with cheese and set in oven until cheese is melted 
Dust top with paprika and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

Note: In using scallions, be sure to use the green tops for 
soups,, sauces and flavoring. Do not throw them away ; that is one 
way to save. 



236 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE AND BAKED APPLE 

1 quart small potatoes. 

% cup grated cheese. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Paprika. 

Wash, boil and skin the potatoes, put thru fruit press or 
potato ricer or mash thru colander on to hot dish which can be 
put in oven. Sprinkle with salt and cover with grated cheese. 
Place in oven until cheese is melted. Serve with quartered baked 
apples around the potatoes. 

Potatoes and cheese make a perfect combination, and as 
cheese is almost always served with warm apple pie, the baked 
quartered apples make it a very good combination. 

BAKED QUARTERED APPLES 

Good for Dessert or Breakfast. 

1 quart apples after paring and quartering. 

14 cup brown sugar. 14 cup syrup. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

A little nutmeg or cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon butter substitute. 

Brush earthen dish with butter substitute; put in the apples, 
cut side down; cover with syrup and sugar, salt, nutmeg and 2 
tabl^poons water. Put in slow oven and bake 1 hour. The apples 
must be cooked very soft and be a nice light brown. Put in ice 
cr^m glasses while warm. 

DRIED PEACH AND RICE CROQUETTES 

% cup rice. 

2 cups stewed dried peaches, sweetened to taste. 
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. 

3^ teaspoon salt. 1 egg. Breadcrumbs. 

Wash the rice, put on in 1 quart of water, boil 10 minutes ; then 
drain and put in top of double boiler; add salt and steam 30 min- 
utes. Mash the peaches thru coarse strainer or fruit press; add 
lemon rind. If the peaches are not sweet enough, add sugar to 
taste. Mix well, spread on platter and when cold and firm shape 
into cone, oblong or ball shapes in floured hands. Dip into well- 
beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs; fry in deep, hot fat. Serve 
with peach saucfe made as follows: 

Mash Y2 cup of stewfed peaches thru strainer, add 1 cup of 
peach juice, heat and thicken with 1 teaspoon of cornstarch ; or the 
peach sauce can be served cold without thickening. Prunes, cher- 
ries or plums can be used this way. The above amount makes 6 
large-sized croquettes. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 237 

DAFFODIL EGGS 

3 cups boiled rice. 4 eggs. 
1 cup hot milk. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 1 teaspoon salt, a little pepper. 

The rice is boiled as usual and spread evenly on earthen dish ; 
pour the milk over the rice and with bottom of cup make 6 places 
large enough to hold 1 egg each; then separate the eggs, beat 
the whites until dry; beat the yolks until well mixed; add season- 
ing and onion, then fold the yolks into the whites and put in the 6 
cavities; place in moderate oven 10 minutes, or until the egg is set 
but not brown. Dust with salt and pepper. Jelly can be served 
with this dish. The cup of rice can be boiled the day before, which 
makes 3 2-3 cups after boiling. Next morning put in strainer and 
pour boiling water over the rice to heat. 

BIRD'S NEST 

4 rounds of toast. 4 eggs. 

1 teaspoon butter. 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Dash paprika. 

Cut bread out with round cookie cutter, and if you do not 
have large cutter place tumbler on bread and with sharp knife 
cut around. Toast a nice brown and dip very quickly into hot 
water, to which a little salt has been added; put on platter that 
will stand heat and set in warm oven ; put a little butter on each 
piece of toast. Separate fresh eggs; beat the whites until dry; 
add a few grains of salt; divide into 4 parts and heat on the pieces 
of wet toast; make a depression in center and slip a yolk of egg in 
each. Place in hot oven just long enough to set the yolk. Sprmkle 
the eggs with parsley and dust with a little paprika. 

EGGS A LA JAPAN WITH GREEN PEAS 

1 cup rice. 1 can peas. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoon bacon drippings or butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 2 teaspoons salt. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

1/4 teaspoon white pepper. 

Wash, boil and blanch the rice as usual. Cut the eggs in half 
lengthwise and lay them down the center of rice, which has been 
spread on platter; cover with the cream sauce. Heat the peas and 
put around the eggs. 

Cream sauce: Put 1 tablespoon butter into saucepan; melt; 
add 1 tablespoon flour, mix well and add 1 cup cold milk and stir 
until sipooth and creamy; add 1 teaspoon salt and a dash white 
pepper ; boil 1 minute. Decorate platter with sprigs of parsley and 
dust top with paprika. 



238 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

CREAMED EGGS IN HOLLOW ROLLS 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 tablespoon butter substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

^ teaspoon pepper. ^ teaspoon paprika. 

Put the butter substitute into saucepan; melt; add onion and 
flour; mix well and add the cold milk slowly; stir until smooth 
and creamy; then add the salt, pepper and boil 5 minutes. Chop 
the egg yolks and whites together and add to the cream sauce. 
Serve on toast or in hollow rolls, sprinkle with paprika and gar- 
nish with chopped parsley. 

Note : One yolk can be reserved to rub thru strainer for the 
top. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 cup cold boiled ham, chopped fine. 

1 cup cream sauce. 2 cups breadcrumbs. 

2 tablespoons milk. 

Brush casserole dish with bacon drippings or butter, cover 
the bottom with 1-3 of the breadcrumbs. Cut 2 eggs into rounds 
and place on the crumbs, cover with half the ham and half the 
cream sauce; then half of the remainder of breadcrumbs; 2 eggs 
cut into rounds, the remainder of the cream sauce, then the re- 
mainder of the breadcrumbs, which have been moistened with the 
milk put over the top. Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. This 
sauce is made as usual and can be flavored with % teaspoon grated 
nutmeg or 1 tablespoon onion juice. 

EGG CUTLET WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

4 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon butter or oleomargarine. 

2 tablespoons flour. % teaspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Dash white pepper. Dash paprika. 

Boil the eggs 30 minutes; lay in cold water and shell; chop the 
whites and add to the cream sauce; add salt, pepper, paprika, 
parsley and yolks of the eggs mashed thru strainer. Mix 
well and spread on platter; set aside until cold. When firm take 
1 tablespoon up in floured hands and shape into oblong 3 inches 
long^ 2 inches wide and 1 inch thick, making the ends rounding. 
Dip in egg (1 egg beaten with 1 tablespoon cold milk) and then m 
breadcrumbs. Fry in deep, hot drippings or oil. 

Tomato sauce is made as usual and served around the cutlet. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 239 

FOAMY EGGS ON TOAST 

4 eggs. % cup milk. 2 teaspoons butter. 
% teaspoon salt. Dash white pepper. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. Dash paprika. 

Scald the milk; beat the eggs until well mixed but not light; 
add the salt and pepper and pour the scalded milk over egg, return 
to double boiler, stirring until thick and creamy, but not lumpy; 
add the butter and serve on toast; sprinkle with parsley. 

BERKSHIRE EGGS WITH SPINACH 

4 eggs. 2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon grated onion. 

Ys teaspoon white pepper. 

3 cups prepared spinach or 14 peck uncooked. 

Break the eggs into a bowl, beat until well mixed and then 
add the milk, ^ teaspoon salt, pepper and onion juice. Brush cus- 
tard cups with a little melted butter and pour in the egg mixture. 
Put the cups in pan of hot water in moderate oven and bake until 
firm. The best way to try them is to take a silver knife and run it 
in the center, and if it comes out dry the custard is done. Loosen 
the sides with a spatula and turn out on the bed of spinach. Pre- 
pare as usual. Cover with cream sauce. 



HOMINY 



HOW TO COOK HOMINY 

One pound, which is 2i^ cups, is washed and soaked 24 hours; 
put over slow fire with cold water to cover and boil very slowly 5 
or 6 hours. Add boiling water as fast as it boils away, which will 
be quite often. When done add 1 teaspoon of salt. When tender 
it should be free of water, and you will have about 10 cup- 
f uls of hominy. 

HOMINY WITH CHEESE 

4 cups boiled hominy, 
1 cup grated American cheese. 
1 cup milk. % teaspoon salt. 
Dash white pepper. 

Mix the hominy and cheese (saving 1 tablespoonful of cheese 
for the top) with the milk, salt and pepper; pour into a shallow 
pan; sprinkle with 1 tablespoonful of cheese; put into hot oven 15 
minutes. If oven is not hot you can prepare in double boiler and 
sprinkle with cheese when sent to table. This makes an excel- 
lent luncheon dish. 



240 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

HASHED BROWN HOMINY 

5 cups cold boiled hominy. 2 tablespoons drippings. 

% cup finely cut scailion (green and white). 

1 teaspoon salt. Chopped parsley. 

Put the drippings and scallions into frying pan; fry until 
cooked, but not browned ; add the hominy and salt, fry slowly until 
heated thru. By adding a little milk the hominy will brown 
quicker. 

HOMINY WITH BACON FLAVOR 

4 cups cold boiled hominy. y2 cup finely cut raw bacon. 

1 teaspoon salt. A little pepper. 1/2 cup milk. 

Put the bacon into f rypan. When heated thru add the hominy 
and keep stirring same as hashing potatoes until the bacon is 
cooked. Add the milk and fry slowly 10 minutes; then sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, mix well. Serve at once. 

FRIED HOMINY FLAVORED WITH MEAT 

4 cups boiled hominy. 

% cup left-over meat, chopped fine. 

1 tablespoon drippings. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon salt. Paprika. 

Put the drippings in pan, add cold boiled hominy; put over 
slow fire until heated thru (stirring quite often) ; then add the 
meat, fry until both are light yellow. Serve on hot dish ; dust with 
paprika and sprinkle with parsley. For those who like the flavor 
of onion, 1 tablespoon of finely chopped onion is added to the drip- 
pings before hominy is put in pan. 



FRITTERS 



MOCK OYSTER FRITTERS 

1 bunch oyster plant (salsify). 
t cup flour. y2 cup milk. 2 eggs. 

1 level teaspoon salt. A little pepper. 

2 tablespoons baking powder. 

Wash, scrape and cut the salsify into i/^-inch pieces, cover 
with boiling water, put on to boil an'd boil 30 minutes or until ten- 
der. Drain and mash thru strainer. When cold add the milk and 
well-beaten eggs, seasoning. 

Sift flour and baking powder into mixture, beat a few min- 
utes, fry in hot, deep fat or on hot greased griddle until browned 
nicely on both sides. Make the shape of a fried oyster. Warm cat- 
sup can be served, if desired. 

Note : One bunch makes about 2 or 2i^ cups after cooking. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 241 

BREAD FRITTERS 

1 cup of ends of crusts of bread. 

1 cup flour. 

y2 cup each of milk and rice stock or all milk. 

1 or 2 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
% teaspoon salt. 

Cover the dry bread with cold water for 10 minutes ; press 
between the hands until dry; put into bowl with milk, rice stock 
and salt. Beat until bread is smooth, then add well-beaten eggs ; 
mix weU, then sift in the flour and baking powder; mix lightly. 
Bake on hot, well-greased griddle. 

CORN FRITTERS 

2 cups crushed canned corn. 1 cup flour. 
% cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
% teaspoon pepper. 

, Sift dry ingredients into bowl, add milk, well-beaten eggs and 
corn. If com is coarse put thru food chopper. The dough must 
be quite thin if they are to be fried in deep fat; if cooked on grid- 
dle, have it the consistency of hot cake batter. 

BREADCRUMBS AND PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 

1 cup breadcrumbs. ^^ cup flour. 
1% cups milk. 1 egg. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 tablespoon molasses. 

1 cup grated pineapple. % cup sugar. 

Cover breadcrumbs with milk; add well-beaten eggs, salt and 
molasses. Mix well, then sift flour and baking powder into mix- 
ture; brush griddle with drippings and bake the fritters slowly 
a rich brown. Mix pineapple and sugar together and put ov^x- the 
fritters. Any crushed fresh or canned fruit can be used. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

2 cooking apples. % cup milk. 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

V^ teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

Wash, pare and core the apples ; cut into rounds i^ inch thick ; 
dip into the batter and fry in very hot oil. Dust with pulverized 
sugar. 

Batter: Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add 
the milk slowly and the well-beaten egg; mix well. 



242 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



JAMS AND MARMALADE 



CRANBERRY AND RAISIN JAM 

1 quart cranberries. 

2 cups (1 package) seeded raisins. 
1 cup sugar. % cup water. 

Put the cranberries and water on in saucepan; cover and 
bring to a boil quickly. As soon as they begin to cool, mash and 
strain thru colander. Add the sugar, and raisins, which have been 
washed, dried and put thru a food chopper. Return to fire and 
boil slowly 30 minutes, or until it thickens like sauce, stirring 
quite often. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

12 oranges. 4 tablespoons lemon juice. 

4 cups water. 8 cups sugar. 

Cut the oranges in half, scoop out the juice and pulp. Put the 
skins on to boil with 6 quarts of cold water and boil until tender; 
remove and put in colander to drain. When they are well drained, 
take a spoon and remove all the white; it will come out easily. 
Shred the yellow and add to the juice and pulp. Be sure that all 
the white fiber has been removed. Add the sugar and water and 
boil slowly 2 hours, or until thick. 

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 

To 4 cups of grapefruit pulp, rind and juice, take 8 cups of 
water, 12 cups sugar and 6 tablespoons lemon juice. Wash and 
cut the grapefruit in halves, crosswise, cut out the seeds, remove 
pulp and all the juice with a spoon; put in porcelain-lined preserv- 
ing kettle that is not chipped. (Two good grapefruit will make 4 
cups or more.) Remove all white fiber, cut the rind in fine strips, 
or put thru food chopper, add to pulp and to each cup of pulp and 
rind add 2 cups cold water ; set away 24 hours, then add the lemon 
juice and 12 cups of sugar (6 pounds) ; boil slowly 2 to 3 hours, 
stirring quite often. It must be thick, so the rind will not separate. 

APRICOT AND RAISIN MARMALADE 

1 cup apricots, prunes or dried peaches. 

1 cup seeded raisins. 

1% cups water. 1 level teaspoon salt. 

1 cup syrup. 

Wash the apricots, prunes or peaches and raisins; put to soak 
in the 1^ cups of water for 2 hours. Put the fruit thru food chop- 
per, return to water, add salt and syrup, and boil 15 minutes. Stir 
frequently so it will not bum. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 243 

SLICED APPLES (A GOOD RELISH) 

1/4 peck apples. 1 cup vinegar. 

^ eup water, i^ cup brown sugar. 

^ cup syrup. 

3-inch piece of stick cinnamon. 

y2 teaspoon whole cloves. 

% teaspoon allspice. 

Put the vinegar, water, sugar and spices on and boil 10 min- 
utes. Wash, pare, quarter and core the apples, put into saucepan 
and pour the boiled vinegar over them; boil 5 minutes; remove 
cover and boil slowly until tender. Leave the spice among the 
apples. 

PEACH BUTTER 

1 pound dried peaches. 1% cups sugar. 
1^ teaspoons salt. 

Wash the peaches thru several waters; cover with boiling 
water ; when cool remove skins ; strain the water over the peaches ; 
let them stand 24 hours; put over fire and boil slowly in same 
water until tender. Mash fine and add sugar and salt ; boil slowly 
until stiff. 

PRUNE AND PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 

1 pound good prunes. 

2 cups grated pineapple. 

1 pound granulated sugar. 
% level teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Wash prunes in hot water ; put in saucepan and cover with 
cold water. Place on back of range, cover saucepan and let sim- 
mer imtil soft; remove stones, return the prunes to the water and 
boil slowly % hour. Mash all thru strainer; return to saucepan; 
add salt and pineapple. Boil slowly 1 to 2 hours, or until thick. 
Add the lemon juice last. Some prunes thicken sooner than others. 
Canned pineapple can be used, put thru food chopper. 

DRIED PEACH PICKLE 

When fresh peaches are out of season, make peach pickles 
from the dried fruit. Soak the dried peaches over night and the 
next day the skins can easily be removed from most of them. Pin 
together 2 half -peaches of equal size with cloves and bits of cinna- 
mon. Place them in cans, with an occasional almond to suggest a 
peach kernel, and pour over them hot, sweet, spiced vinegar. Let 
them stand at least a week. 



244 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 



HOT BREADS AND HOT CAKES 



HOT CROSS BUNS 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled. 

% cup shortening or butter. 

y2 cup sugar. 

legg. 

1/4 cup chopped seeded raisins. 

1 yeast cake. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 

314 cups sifted flour. 

Dissolve yeast and 1 tablespoon sugar in the lukewarm milk; 
add iy2 cups flour to make a sponge; beat until smooth, cover 
and let rise until light in warm place for about one hour. Add 
shortening and sugar, which have been creamed, well-beaten egg, 
raisins, which have been floured, and rest of flour or enough to 
make a moderately soft dough and salt. Turn on board; knead 
lightly, place in greased bowl. 

Cover and set aside in a warm place until double in bulk, 
which should be about 2 hours. Shape into medium-sized round 
buns, place in well-greased shallow pans about 2 inches apart. 
Cover and let rise again, about 1 hour or until light. Brush top 
with well-beaten egg and milk (1 egg and 2 tablespoons milk). 
With sharp knife cut a cross on top of each. Bake 20 minutes. 
Just before removing from oven, and while hot, fill crosses with 
sugar. 



MAPLE ROLLS 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 

% cup milk. 

y2 Gup grated maple sugar or brown sugar. 

1 tablespoon melted oleomargarine. 

Sift baking powder and salt into bowl, add shortening; rub 
in very lightly; add milk enough to make a dough so it can be 
rolled l^ inch thick; brush with melted oleomargarine and sprin- 
kle with maple sugar; wet edges with milk and roll same as jelly 
roll and cut into 1-inch pieces; put into well-greased pie plate; 
brush top with milk ; put into hot oven and bake 20 to 25 minutes. 
Remove from plate at once before the sugar hardens. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 245 

BREADCRUMB MUFFINS WITH RAISINS 

1 cup flour. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 

% cup seeded raisins put thru food chopper. 

1% cups milk. 

legg. 

1 tablespoon melted butter or oleomargarine. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1/8 teaspoon salt. 

Soak the breadcrumbs in the cold milk or rice stock for 10 
minutes ; add the sifted flour, raisins, baking powder and salt, the 
well-beaten egg and butter, mix well; brush heated muffin tins 
with a little butter and put 1 tablespoon of mixture into each tin. 
Bake 20 to 25 minutes in hot oven. 

HOMINY MUFFINS 

1 cup cold boiled hominy. 

% cup milk. 

1 cup flour. 

1 egg. 

% teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted butter, oleomargarine or cooking oil. 

1 tablespoon syrup. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Put the cold boiled honey^ thru food chopper; add the milk, 
well-beaten egg, salt, shortening and syrup; beat 3 minutes or 
until smooth and light; then add the baking powder, mix well; 
brush muffin irons with melted fat, fill half full and bake in hot 
oven 25 to 30 minutes. The dough must be quite stiff. 

HONEY BRAN MUFHNS 

1 cup bran. 

1 cup flour. 

% teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoon melted shortening. 

2 tablespoons honey. 

V4 cup chopped seeded raisins. 
1 egg- 
Mix bran, flour, salt, baking powder and raisinsp; add milk, 
shortening and honey, also well-beaten egg. Brush muffin pan 
with melted fat; put mto hot oven; bake 26 to 30 minutes. This 
makes 12 large mufl^ns. 



246 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

BISCUIT DOUGH HOT CROSS BUNS 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 

1 Qgg- 
Milk. 

% cup seedless raisins. 

Sift dry ingredients together, add shortening and rub in very 
lightly; then add raisins or currants, which have been floured. 
Beat egg until light, add milk enough to fill the cup, add to dry 
ingredients to make a soft dough (save 1 tablespoon to brush the 
top), put on floured board, pat until 1 inch thick, cut with small 
biscuit cutter; put close together in well-greased pan; brush top 
with egg and milk, and with sharp knife cut a cross on top of each 
one ; bake in hot oven ; brush with 2 tablespoons sugar and milk. 

PEANUT BUTTER BISCUIT 

2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. \ 

V2 cup peanut butter. 

1-3 cup milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add peanut but- 
ter and rub in very lightly; add milk, put on floured board and 
roll out % inch thick. Cut with small cookie cutter. Brush top 
with milk and bake in hot oven 10 or 12 minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

Buckwheat flour can be purchased ready prepared, and all 
that is necessary when mixing is to put 1 tablespoon of syrup in 
the batter, which can he mixed wim milk, half milk and half 
water, or all water. In that case I would suggest putting a little 
melted butter or drippings in the batter. The syrup makes it a 
rich brown. 

Or it can be mixed as follows : 

2 cups buckwheat flour. 

2 cups milk, or half milk and half water. 

1 tablespoon melted fat or oil. 

1 tablespoon syrup. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix well until smooth ; then add the baking powder last. 



SEASONAL COOK BOOK 247 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup rice. 1 cup flour. 1% cups milk. 

1 tablespoon molasses. 

1 tablespoon melted butter substitute. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

1 well-beaten egg. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mix the first 5 ingredients together until smooth, then add 
the egg and baking powder. Fry on hot griddle that has been 
brushed with drippings or oil. 

PLAIN GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups flour. 
1% cups milk. 

1 tablespoon molasses. 

1 tablespoon melted butter substitute. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 well-beaten egg. 

Mix the flrst 5 ingredients together until smooth, then add 
the egg and baking powder. Fry on hot griddle that has been 
brushed with drippings or oil. 

CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup cornmeal. 1 cup boiling milk. 1 egg. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
% teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted butter or substitute. 

1 tablespoon molasses. 

Put the cornmeal into bowl, cover with the boiling milk ; when 
cold, add the salt, butter or oleomargarine, molasses, baking pow- 
der and the egg, which has been beaten until light; mix well and 
bake on hot griddle, which has been brushed with drippings, using 
only a small amount for each. Bake until nicely browned. If 
your batter seems too thick, add a little more milk, as these cakes 
are not good if too thick. 

POTATO BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

1 cup mashed potatoes. 3 cups buckwheat flour. 
W2 cups milk. 

1 tablespoon melted fat or oil. 

2 tablespoons syrup. 

% teaspoon salt. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 
Add the milk to the potatoes, beat until smooth, add molasses, 
salt and fat, then sift in the flour and baking powder. The dough 
must be rather stiff. Fry on hot greased griddle. 



248 MRS. SCOTT'S NORTH AMERICAN 

FUENCH TOAST 



tl 



Gup flour. 
^ cup milk. 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 
% teaspoon salt. 
sTi<}ed bread. 



If the bread is very dry, dip in cold milk very quickly, lay on 
strainer, then dip in batter. Fry in hot drippings ; drain on paper. 
Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon (4 tablespoons sugar to 1 of 
cmnamon). 

Batter: Sift the flour,- salt and baking powder into bowl; 
add the milk and well-beaten egg; beat well and dip the bread 
into it. 



CREAM TOAST 

6 or 8 slices bread. 
2 cups milk. 
1 tablespoon butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 
% teaspoon salt. 

Remove the crust from the bread and toast a nice brown. 
Lay on hot platter, pour the sauce over and place in oven a few 
minutes. 

Sauce: Put the butter into saucepan; when melted, add the 
flour, mix well and add the cold milk slowly, stirring until smooth 
and creamy; add the salt. 



GRIDDLE CAKES FROM LEFT-OVER BEANS 

iy2 cups beans mashed thru strainer. 

1 cup flour. 

1 cup milk. 

1 l€vel teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon cooking oil. 

1 tablespoon syrup. 

1 egg. 

2 rounded teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix th6 beans and milk until smooth, then add the remainder 
of ingredients. Beat 5 minutes; add baking powder, mix lightly 
and bake on hot griddle. This dough must be quite thin. 

Left-over green peas or split peas can be used the same way. 



INDEX 

Seasonal Spring Recipes 

for 
APRIL, MAY AND JUNE 



PAGES 

Beverages, 7 recipes 63-64 

Breads, plain and sweet, 15 recipes 58-62 

Cakes and Cookies, 15 recipes 44-49 

Cheese Recipes, 7 recipes 23-25 

Desserts, frozen, 7 recipes 37-39 

Desserts, seasonable, 11 recipes 64-67 

Desserts, fruit, 19 recipes 49-53 

Egg Dishes, 14 recipes 6-10 

Fish, 9 recipes 3.5 

"Meal" Dishes, 9 recipes 20-22 

Meats, 21 recipes 10-17 

Meat Dishes, 7 recipes 17-19 

Pies, 10 recipes 34-37 

Puddings, 19 recipes 39.44 

Salads, 17 recipes 29-34 

Sauces, Syrups, Jams, etc., 19 recipes 54-58 

Soups, 6 recipes 1-2 

Vegetables, 15 recipes 25-29 

249 



INDEX 

Seasonal Summer Recipes 

for 
JULY, AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER 



PAGES 

Beverages, 4 recipes 120 

Breads, plain and sweet, 5 recipes 118-119 

Beef, Lamb and Combination Dishes, 19 recipes 74-81 

Canning, 17 recipes 122-127 

Cakes, 13 recipes 109-112 

Cheese Dishes, 3 recipes 86-87 

Egg Dishes, 12 recipes 82-85 

Fish and Clams, 7 recipes 71-74 

Frozen Desserts, 11 recipes 106-108 

Fruit Desserts, 16 recipes 98-102 

Home Flavors, 10 recipes 116-117 

Jams, 9 recipes 113-116 

Jellies, 3 recipes 121 

Puddings, 12 recipes 102-106 

Salads and Dressings, 11 recipes 95-97 

Sandwiches, 16 recipes 128-131 

Soups, hot and cold, 8 recipes 69-71 

Vegetables, 26 recipes 87-94 

250 



INDEX 

Seasonal Autumn Recipes 

for 
OCTOBER, NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER 



PAGES 

Breads, 12 recipes 185-189 

Candies, homemade, 8 recipes 191-193 

Cakes and Cookies, 18 recipes 177-184 

Cheese Dishes, 3 recipes 1,76-177 

Desserts, Puddings, etc., 23 recipes 168-175 

Fish, 12 recipes 141-145 

Meats, 13 recipes 145-149 

Meat Substitutes, 17 recipes 150-156 

Oysters, 11 recipes .^ 133-136 

Poultry, 10 recipes 164-167 

Pies, 6 recipes 189-191 

Salads, 4 recipes 167-168 

Soups, 13 recipes 137-140 

Vegetables, 25 recipes 156-163 

251 



INDEX 

Seasonal Winter Recipes 

for 
JANUARY, FEBRUARY AND MARCH 



PAGES 

Breads, hot, and hot cakes, 15 recipes 244-248 

Cakes and Cookies, 13 recipes 221-225 

Cheese Dishes, 8 recipes 219-221 

Combination Dishes, 9 recipes 232-235 

Desserts, 10 recipes 214-217 

Egg and Lenten Dishes, 12 recipes 235-239 

Fish, 12 recipes 198-200 

Fritters, 5 recipes 240-241 

Hominy, 5 recipes 239-240 

Jams and Marmalades, 8 recipes 242-243 

Meats, 14 recipes 201-205 

Oysters and Soups, 8 recipes 195-197 

Pies, 9 recipes 225-227 

Puddings, 16 recipes 227-232 

Salads and Dressings, 15 recipes 209-214 

Sauces, 7 recipes 217-219 

Vegetables, 14 recipes 206-209 

262 



INDEX 

Seasonal Winter Recipes 

for 
JANUARY, FEBRUARY AND MARCH 



FACiES 

Breads, hot, and hot cakes, 15 recipes 244-248 

Cakes and Cookies, 13 recipes 221-225 

Cheese Dishes, 8 recipes 219-221 

Cembination Dishes, 9 recipes 232-235 

Desserts, 10 recipes 214-217 

Egg and Lenten Dishes, 12 recipes 235-239 

Fish, 12 recipes 198-200 

Fritters, 5 recipes 240-241 

Hominy, 5 recipes 239-240 

Jams and Marmalades, 8 recipes 242-243 

Meats, 14 recipes 201-205 

Oysters and Soups, 8 recipes 195-197 

Pies, 9 recipes 225-227 

Puddings, 16 recipes 227-232 

Salads and Dressings, 15 recipes 209-214 

Sauces, 7 recipes 217-219 

Vegetables, 14 recipes 206-209 

262 



