
ADAPTED PRO^TAE 

WhlTEH0U5C 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








if'^""' '" ''~ ^' 


<2 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco. 1912. 






Pi Cornell University 
S Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089544278 




EDITH CAREW ROOSEVELT 



THE 

PRESIDENTIAL 



^Cook Book J 



* y >^ C * f^tlj^ » * M St '^ * 



4DAPTED PROM 

the white house 

;o6k book 




AKRON, OHIO 

THE SAALFiELD PUBLISHING COMPANY 

NEW YORK 1906 CHICAGO 



Copyright, 1896, by 
THE WERNER COMPANY 



Copyright, 1901, by 
THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING CO. 



MADE BY 
BOBBRT SMITH PRINTING COMPANY 
LANSING, MICHIGAN 



Wiivii^s of ®nv gKjesMjewts, 

Jn;je jftmn; t0 all li-mjertjcatxs, 

^Mb 19f0lum« 
gs atf^jcti0tiatjels( dMicatM 

—BY THE AUTHOR. 




IDA SAXTON Mckinley, 



PUBLISHERS' PREFACE 



IN PEESBNTiNG to the publio that great kitchen encyclopedia, " The White 
House Cook Book," we stated in our preface that we believed the book 
more fully represented the progress and present perfection of the cul- 
inary art than any other work. This strong assertion was subsequently 
attested by the enormous sale of the book, it having gained a wider circula- 
tion than ever before accorded a cook book. What we then claimed for the 
"White House" we now claim for the "Presidential," in so far as the vitally 
important points of the book are concerned, comprising, as it does, most of 
the matter originally published in the "White House Cook Book." 

The "Presidential Cook Book" may be said to be a revision of the neces- 
sarily higher priced "White House," a condensed volume in complete prac- 
tical form, but containing all the most important recipes of the latter, and 
more easily within reach of the masses in point of price. 

The authors of the "White House Cook Book," frOm which is" compiled 
the "Presidential," were that world-famous chef, Hugo Ziemann, steward 
of the White House under the Harrison administration, and Mrs. F. L. 
Gillette, also of national fame. 

Hugo Ziemann was at one time caterer for that Prince Napoleon who 
was killed while fighting the Zulus in Africa. He was afterwards steward 
of the famous Hotel Splendide in Paris. Later he conducted the celebrated 
Brunswick Cafe in New York, and still later he gave to the Hotel Bichelieu 
in Chicago, a cuisine which won the applause of even the gourmets of foreign 
lands. Mrs. F. L. Gillette is no less proficient and capable, having made a 
life-long and thorough study of cookery and housekeeping, especially as 
adapted to the practical wants of average American homes. 

The "Presidential" has been prepared with great care. Every recipe 
has been tried and tested, and can be relied upon as one of the best of its 
kind. It fills the requirements of housekeepers of all classes. It embodies 
several original and commendable features, among which may be mentioned 
the convenient classification and arrangement of topics; the simplified 
method of explanation in preparing an article, in the order of manipulation, 
thereby enabling the most inexperienced to clearly comprehend it. The sub- 
ject of carving has been given a prominent place, not only because of its 
special importance in a work of this kind, but particularly because it con- 
tains entirely new and original designs, and is so far a departure from the 

usual mode of treating the subject. 

IFhi! Pcblishkks. 



^:5$F-^ 

FAGE. 

earring 1 

Soups, 21 

Fish, 41 

Shell Fish, 67 

Poultry and Game, 70 

Meats, 94 

Mutton and Lamb, 120 

Pork, 187 

Sauces and IJressing for Meats and Fish, ... ... 138 

Salads, ... 149 

-Catsups," 156 

Pickles, „ 159 

Vegetables, ' 169 

Macaroni, 193 

Butter and Cheese, 194 

Eggs 199 

Qmelets, 203 

Sandwiches, 209 

Bread, 211 

:Biscuits, Bolls, Mu£Sns, etc., 221 

Toast, 246 

Cakes, '. 2gl. 

Pastry, Pies and Tarts, 284 

Custards, Cream and Desserts, 305 

Ice C&ream and Ices ^ . 334 

I pumplings and Puddings, 339 

Sauces for Puddings, 371 

PireserveB, Jellies, etc., ............ 376 

Canned Fruits, . . 389 

Coloring for Fruit and Confectionery, ^ . . 395 

Coffee, Tea and Beverages, 397 

Preparations for the Sick, 410 

French Words in Cooking 480 

Miscellaneous, • 421 

Small Points on Table Etiquette, 421 

Dinner-giving, 425 




FRANCES FOLSOM CLEVELAND. 



prej^iilerjtiaP ©ooft S^ooft. 



CARVING. 

CarTing is one important acquisition in the routine of daily living, and all 
should try to attain a knowledge or ability to do it well, and withal gracefully. 

When carving use a chair slightly higher than the ordinary size, as it giv^ 
a better purchase on the meat, and appears more^graceful than when standing, 
as is often quite necessary when carving a turkey, or a very large joint. More 
depends on skill than strength. The platter should be placed opposite, and 
sufficiently near to give perfect command of the article to be carved, the knife 
of medium size, sharp "vnth a keen edge. Commence by cutting the slices thin, 
laying them carefully to one side of thd platter, then afterwards placing the 
desired amount on each guest's plate, to be served in turh by the servant. 

In carving fish, care should be taken to help it in. perfect flakes; for if these 
ore broken the beauty of the fish is lost. The carver should acquaint himself 
with the choicest parts and morse&;jand to give each guest an equal share of 
those tidbits should be his maxim. Steel knives and forks should on nO account 
be used in helping fish, as these are liable to impart a very disagreeable flavor. 
A fish-trowel of silver or plated, silver is the proper article to use. 

Gravies should be sent to the table very hot, and in helping one to gravy or 
melted butter, place it on a vacant side of the plate; not pour it over their mea^ 
fish or fowl, that they may use only as much as they like. 

When serving fowls, or meat, accompanied with stuffing, the guesra should 
be asked if they would have a portion, as it is not every one to whom the favor 
of stuffing is agreeable; in filling their plates, avoid heaping one thing upon 
another, as n makes a bad appearance. 

A word about the care of carving knives: a fine st^el knife should not come in 
contact with intense heat, because it destroys its temper, and therefore impairs 
its cutting qualities. Table carving knives should not be used in the kitchen, 
either around the stove, or for cutting bread, meats, vegetables, etc.; a fina 
whetstone should be kept for sharpening, and the knife cleaned carefiilly to 
atdd dulling its edge, all of which is quite essential to successful carviog. 



BBBP, 



es^ 




BEEP. 

HraD-QnAtfi'JiiL 

NO' L Used for choice roasts, the porter-house and sirloin steaka 

No. S. Bump, nsed for steaks, stews and corned beef. 

No. 3. Aitch-bone, used for boiUng-pieces, stews and pot roasts. 

No. 4. Bntt0(± or roimd, need for steals, pot roaste, beef d 2d mode; also a prime 

boiliag-pieceL 
Na 5< Moose round, used for boiling and stewing 
Na 6. Shin or leg, used for soups, hashes, etc. 
No. 7. Thick flank, cut with under fat, is a prime boiling piece, good for stows 

and corned beef, preissed beef. 
No. 8. Veiny piece, used for corned beef, dried beef 
Na 9. Thin flank, nsed for corned beef and boiling-piecea 



Fore-Qdabteb. 

No. 10. Five ribs called the fore-rib. This is considered the piimfiet piece tot 

roasting; also makes the finest steaks; 
No. 11. Four ribs, called the DEiiddle ribs, used for roasting. 
No. 12. Chuck ribs, used for second quality of roasts and steaks. 
No. 13. Brisket, used for corned beef, stews, soups and spiced beet 
No. U. Shonlder-piece, used for stews, soups, pot-roasts, miooe-meat, and h« ph«a , 



BSEP. S 

Nos. IS, 16. Keck, dod or stickmg-iiiece, used for stocks, gravies, soups, uiinoe- 

pie meat, hashes, hologna sausages, etc. 
Ko. 17. Shin or shank, used mostly iw soups and stewing. 
No. 18. Cheek. * 

The following is a dassiflcation of thjS qualities of meat, according to the 
seiveral joints of heef, when cut up. 

Fir^ Claas.—JsiclniiB3 the sirloin -with the kidney suet (1), the rump steak 
piece (2), the forerib (11). 

Second CZcus.— The buttodc or round (4), the thick flank (7), the middle 
ribs (11). 

Hiird Class.— TbB ail eh-bone (3), the mouse-roUnd (6), the thin flank (8, 9), 
the chock (12)^the shoulder piece (14), the brisket (18). 

Fourth Cbu8.—Tbe clod, neck and sticking jdece (15, 16.) 

"V^A CZoss.— 6hin or shank (17). 




VBAL. 




VEAL. 



HiND-QUABTEa 



No. 1. Loin, the choicest cuts used for roasts and chops. 

&<i. 2. E^et, u^d for roasts and cutlets. 

No. 3. Loin, chump-end used for roasts and chops. 

No. 4. The hind-knuckle or hock, used for stews, pot-pies, meat-piea. 



FORB-QUABTER. 

No. 5. Neck, best end used for roagts, stews and chops. 

No. 6. Breast, best end used for roasting, stews and chops 

No. 7. Blade-bone, used for pot roasts and baked dishes. 

No. 8. Fore knuckle, used for soups and stews. 

No. tf. Breast, brisket-end used for baking, stews and pot-pies.^ 

No. 10. Neck, scrag-end used for stews, broth, meat-pies, etc. 

In cutting up veal, generally, the hind-quarter is divided in loin and leg, aaod 
the fore-quarter into breast, neck and shoulder. 

' Tha Several Parts of a Moderately-sized, well-fed Qalf, abo]at eigb^ weeb, 
old, are nearly of the following weights:— Loin and cbiy^p, 18 lbs: fillet, 13i lbs. 
hind knuckle, &i lbs.; shoulder, 11 lbs.; neck. 11 Ibe.; breast. 9 lbs.; and Core, 
kmickle, 5 lbs. ; making a total of 144 lbs. weurht. 



tlUTTTON 




MUTTON. 

No. 1. Le@, used for roasts and for boiling. 

No. 2. Shoulder, used for baked dishes and roasts. 

No. 3. Loin, l>est end used for roasts, chops. 

No. 4. Loin, chump end used for roasts and chops. 

No. 6. Rack, or rib chops, used foi French chops, rib chops, either for ttTing or 

broiling; also used for choice ste^s. 
No. 6. Breast, used for roast, baked dishes, stews, chops. 
No. X. Neck or scrag end, used for cutlets and stews and meat pies. 

Note. — A saddle of mutton or double loin is two loins cut off "before the car- 
case i^ split open down the back. French chops are a small rib chop, the end of 
the bone trimmed off asd the meat and fat cut away from the thin end, leaving 
the round piece of meat attached to the lai^er end, which leaves the small rib- 
bone bare. Very tender and sweet. 

Mutton is jn-ime when cut from a carcase which has b6en fed out of doors, 
and allowed to run upon the hillside; they are best when about three years old. 
The fat will then be abtmdant, white and hard, the flesh juicy and firm, and of 
a clear red color. 

For mutton roasts, choose the shoulder, the saddle, or the loin or haunch. 
The leg should be boiled. Almost any part vriU do for broth. 

Lamb bom in the middle of the winter, reared under shelter, and fed in a 
great measure upon milk, then killed in the spring, is considered a greatdelicacy, 
though lamb is good at a year old. Like all yotmg aninuds, lamb ought to Jbe 
thon>u£^y cooked, or it is most unwholesooa^ 



PORK. 




PORK. 

No. 1. Leg, used for smoked hams, roasts and corned pork. 

No. 2. Hind-loin, used for roasts, chops and baked dishes. 

No. 8. Fore-loin or ribs, used for roasts, baked dishes or chops. 

No. 4. Spare-rib, used for roasts, chops, stews 

No. 5. Shoulder, used /or smoked shoulder, roasts and corned pork. 

No. 6. Brisket and flank, used for pickling in salt, and smoked bacon. 

The cheek is used for pickling in salt, also the shank or shin. The feet aiv 
usually used for souse and jelly. 

For family use, the leg is the most economical, that is when fresh, and the 
loin the richest. The best pork is from carcases weighing from fifty to about 
one hundred and twenty-five pounds. Pork is a white and dose meat, and it 
is almost impossible to over-roast pork or cook it too much; when underdone it 
is exceedingly unwholesome. 




VSNISOif 




VENISON. 

No. 1. Shoulder, used for roasting; it may be boned and stuffed, then afterwards 

baked or roasted.' , 

No. 2. Fore-loin, used for roasts and steaks. 
No. 8. Haunch or loin, used for roasts, steaks, stews. The ribs cut close may be 

used for soups. Oood for pickling and making into smoked venison. 
No. 4. Breast, used for baking dishes, stewing. 
No. S. Scrag or neck, used for soups. ' 

The choice of venison should lie judged by the fat, which, when the venison 
b young, should be thick, clear and close, and the meat a very dark red. The 
flesh of a female deer, about four years old, js.tbe sweetest and best of venisrau ^ 
- Buck venison, which is in season from June to the end of September, is finer 
than doe-venison, which is in season from October to December. ,. .Neither should 
be dressed at any other time of year, and.no meat requires eo much care aa 
najaoA in kSIing, preserving, and diessiiig. 



SmLOiN or BBSF. 




SIRLOIN OP BEEF. 



This choice roasting-piece should be cut with one good fitm stroke from end 
to end of the joint, at the upper part, in thin, long, even slices in the direction 
of the line from 1 to 2, cutting across the grain, serving each guest with some 
of the fat with the lean; this may be done by cutting a small thin slice from 
underneath the bone from 6 to 6, through the tenderloin. 

Another way of carving this piece, and which will be of great assistance in 
doing it well, is to insert the knife just above the bone at the bottom, and run 
sharply along, dividing the meat from the bone at the bottom and end, thus leav- 
ing it perfectly flat; then carve in long, thin sUces the usual way. When the 
bone has been removed and the sirloin rolled before it is cooked, it is laid upon 
the platter on one end, and an even, thin slice is carved across the grain of the 
upper surface. 

Boast ribs should be carved in thm, even slices from the thick end towards 
the thin in the same manner as the sirloin; this can be more easily and cleanly 
done if the carving knife is first run along between the meat and the end and 
rib-bones, thus leaving it free from bone to be cut into slices. 

Tongue.— To carve this, it should be cut crosswise, the middle being the best; 
cut in very thin slices, thereby improving its delicacy, making it more tempting; 
as is the case of all well-carved meat& The root of the tongue is usually left 
on the platter 



BMSAST Of yjSAL. 




BREAST OF VEAL. 

This piece is quite similar to a fore-qijarter of lamb after the shoulder has 
been taken off. A breast of veal consists of two parts, the rib-bones and the 
gristly brisket. These parts may be separated by sharply passing the carving 
knife in the direction of the line from 1 to 2; and when they are entirely divided, 
the rib bones should be carved in the direction of the line from 5 to 6, and the 
bri^et can be helped by cutting slices from 8 to 4. 

The carver should ask the guests whether they have a preference for the 
brisket or ribs; and if there be a sweetbread served with the dish, as is fre- 
quently with this roast of veal, each person should receive a piece. 

Thoiigh veal and lamb contain less nutrition than beef and mutton, in pro- 
portion to their weight, they are often preferred to these latter meats on account 
of their ddicacy of texture and flavor. A whole breast of veal weighs from nine 
to twelve pounds. 




Piujsr Of rsAt. 




A FILLET OF VEAL. 



Affletof veal iaoneof tlie prime roasts of veal; it is taken &omibe teg abov« 
the knuckle; a piece weighing from ten to twelve pounds is a good dze and 
(eqniies about (our hours for roasting. Before roasting, it is dressed with a 
force meat or stufQng {daced in the cavity from where the bone was taken out 
and Uie flap tightly seicured together witii skewers; many bind it together with 
tape. 

To carve it, cut in even thin sticee off from the whole of the upper part m 
top, in the same mann«- aa from a roQed roast of beef, as in Che directioo of 
the figures 1 and 9; this gives the person served some of the dressing ^tb each 
slice of meat. 

Veal is very unwholesome unless it is co(d:ed thoroughfy,^ and when roasted 
should be of a rich brovm color. Bacon, fried pork, sausage-balls, with greens 
ore among the aocompaniments of roasted veal, also a cut lemon. 



SSECK OJLVEAl, 



II 



I 




NECK OF VEAL. 



The best end of a neck of veal makes a very good roasting-ptece; it however 
ts composed of bone and ribs that make it quite difficult to carve, unless it ia 
done properly. To attempt to carve each chop and serve it, you would not only 
place too large a piece upon the plate of the person you intend to serve; but you 
would waste much time, and should the vertebras have not been removed by the 
butcher^ you would be compelled to exercise such a degree of strength that 
would make one's appearance very ungraceful, and possibly, too, throwing gravy 
over your neighbor sitting next to you. The correct way to carve this roast is 
to cut diagonally from figure 1 to 2, and help in slices of moderate thickness; 
then it may be cut from 3 to 4, in order to separate the.emall bones; divide and 
serve them, having first inquired if they are desired. 

This joint is usually sent to the table accompanied by bacon, ham, tongue, or 
pickled pork on a separate dish and with a cut lemon on a plate. There are also 
a number of sauces that are suitable with this roast. 



t» 



LEG OF MUTTON. 




LEG OF MUTTON. 



The best mutton, and that from which most nourishment is obtained, is that 
kS. sheep from three to six years old, and which have been fed on dry sweet 
pastui-es; then mutton is in itsjpn'me, the flesh being firm, juicy, dark colored, 
and full of the richest gravy. When mutton is two years old, the meat is 
Babby, pale and savorless. 

In carving a roasted leg, the best shces are found by cutting quite down to 
the bone, in the direction from 1 to 2, and slices may be taken from either side. 

Some very good cuts are taken from the broad end from 5 to 6, and the fat 
on this ridge is very much liked by many. The cramp-bone is a delicacy, and is 
obtained by cutting down to the bone at i, and running the knife under it in 
a semicircular direction to 3. The nearer the knuckle the drier the meat, but the 
under side contains the most finely grabied meat, from which slices may be cut 
lengthwise. When sent to the table a frill of paper aroimd the knuckle win im- 
orove its appearance. 



FORR.QVARTSR Of LAMB. 



•J 




FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. 

The first cut to be made in carving a fore-quarter of lamb is to separate the 
shoulder from the breast and ribs; this is done by passing a sharp carving knife 
lightly around the dotted line as shown by the figures 3, 4, and 6, so as to cut 
through the akin, and then, by raising with a httle force the shoulder, into 
which the fork should be finrdy fixed, it will easily separate with just a little 
more cutting with the knife; care should be taken not to cut away too much of 
the meat from the breast when dividing the shoulder from it, as that would mar 
its appearance. The shoulder may be placed upon a separate dish for con* 
venience. The next process is to divide the ribs from the brisket by cutting 
through the meat in the line from 1 to 2; then the ribs may be carved in the 
direction of the line 6 to 7, and the brisket from 8 to 9. The carver should 
always ascertain whether the guest prefers ribs, brisket or a piece of the shoulder. 




»4 



JIAM. 




HAM. 

The carver in cutting a ham must be guided according as he desires to prac- 
tise economy, or have at once fine slices- out of the prime part. Under the first 
supposition, he will commence at the knuckle end, and cut o£F thin slices towards 
the thick and aiq[>er part of the ham. 

To reach the choicer portion of the ham, the knife, which must be very sharp 
and thin, should be carried quite down to the bone through the thick fat in the 
direction of the line, from 1 to 9. The slices should be even and thin, catting 
both Ijean and fat together, always cutting down to the bone. Some cut a drcn- 
larhole in the middle of a ham gradually enlarging it outwardly. Then a^tin 
many carve a ham by first cutting from 1 to 8, then across the other way from 
8 to 4. Remove the skin after the ham is cooked and send to the table with 
dots of dry pepper or dry mustard on the top, a tuft of fringed paper twisted 
about the knuckle, and plenty of fresh parsley around the dish. This will always 
ensure an inviting appearance. 

Boaai Ptg.— The modem way of sra-ving a pig is not to send it to the table 
whole, but have it carved partially by the cook; first, by dividing the shoulder 
from the body; then the leg in the same maimer; idso separating the ribs into 
convenient portions. The head may be divided and placed <« the same plat- 
ter. ^ To be served as hot as possible. 

A. S|>ai!» Bib of Pork is carved by cutting slices from the fleeby part, aftar 
wbi^ the bones should be ditgc^ted and separated. 

A leg of p<ak may be carved in the same manner as a ham. 



HAUNCH OF VENISON. 



»5 




HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

A-haunch of venison is the prime joint, and is carved very similar to almost 
any roasted or boiled leg; it should be first cut crdsswise down to the bone fol- 
Jowing the line from 1 to 2; then turn the platter 'with the knuckle fai-thest 
from you, put in the point of the knife, and cut down as far as you ciin, in the 
directions shown by the dotted lines firom 3 to 4 then there can; be taken out as 
many slices as is required on the right and left of this. Slices of veqison should 
be cut thin, and gravy given with them, Sut as there is a special sauce made 
with red wine and currant jelly to accompany this meat, do not serve gravy 
before asking the guest if he pleases to have any. 

The fat of this meat is like mutton, apt to cool soon, and become hard and 
disagreeable to the palate; it should therefore be served always on warm plates, 
and the platter kept over a hot-water dish, or spirit lamp. Many cooks dish it 
up with a white paper frill pined around the knuckle-bone. 

A haunch of mutton is carved the same as a haunch of venison. 




16 



ruxjcsr. 




TURKEY 

A tutKe7 having been relieved from strings and skenrers used in trassing 
should be placed on the table with the head or neck at the carver's right hand. 
An expert carver places the fork in the turkey, and does not remove it until the 
whole ia divided. First insert the fork firmly in the lower part of the breast, 
just forward of fig. 2, then sever the legs aad wings on both sides, if the whole 
is to be carved, cutting neatly through the joint next to the body, letting* these 
parts lie on the platter; Kext, cut downward from the breast from 2 to 3, as 
many even slices of the white meat as may be desired, placing the pieces neatly 
on one side of the platter. Now unjoint the legs and wings at the middle joint, 
which can be done very skillfully by a little practice. Make an opening into the 
cavity of the turkey for dipping out the inside dressing, by cutting a piece f rpm 
the rear part 1, 1,. called the apron. Consult the tastes of the guests as to which 
part is preferred; if no choice is expressed, serve a portion of both light and dark 
meat. One of the most delicate parts of the turkey, are two little muscles, ly- 
ing in small dish-like cavities on each side of the back, a httle behind the leg 
attachments; the next most delicate meat fills the cavities in the neck bone, and 
bextto tiiis, that on the second joints. The lower part of the leg (or drum* 
6tick, as it is called) being hard, tough, and stringy is rarely ever helped to any 
000, but allowed to remain on the dish. 



XOAST GOOSS—FOtytS. tf 




ROAST GOOSE. 

To carve a goose, first begin by separating the leg from the body, by putting 
the fork into the small end of the limb, pressing it closely to the body, then 
passing the knife under at 2, and turning the leg back as you cut through the 
joint. To take off the wing, insert the fork in the small end of the pinion, and 
press it close to the body; put the knife in at figure 1, and divide the joint- 
When the legs and wings are off, the breast may be carved in long even slices, 
as represented in the lines from 1 to 2. The back and lower side bones, as weil 
as the two lower side bones by the wing, may be cut off; but the best pieces of 
the goose are the breast and thighs, after being separated from the drum-sticks. 
Serve a little of the dressing from the inside, by making a circular slice in the 
apron at figure 3. A goose should never be over a year old; a tough goose is 
very difficult to carve, and certainly most difficult to eat 

FOWLS. 

First insert the knife between the leg and the body, and cut to the bone; 
then turn the leg back with the fork, and if the fowl is tender the joint will give 
away easily. The wing is broken off the same way, only dividing the joinl-with 
the knife, in the direction from 1 to 2. The four quarters, haying been removed 
in this way, take off the meny-thought and the neck-bones; these last are to b( 
removed by putting the knife in at figure 3 and 4, pressing it hard, when they 
will break off from the part that sticks to the breast. To separate the breast 
from the body of the fow], cut through the tender ribs close to tlie breast, quite 
down to the tail Now turn the fowl over, back upwards; put the knife into 
the bone midway between the neck and the rump, and on raising the lower end 
it will separate readily. Turn now the rump from you, and take off very neatly 
the two side-bones and the fowl is carved. In separating the thigh from the 
•Irum-stick, the knife must be inserted exactly at the joint, for if not accurately 
hit, some difficulty vnU be experienced to get them apart; this is easily acquired 
by practice. There is no difference in carving roast and boiled fowls if full 
grown; but in very young fowls, the breast is usually served whole; the wings 
und breast are considered the best part, but in young ones the legs are the most 
juicy. In the case of a capon or laige fowl,, slices may be cut off at the breast^ 
(he tttme as carving a pheasanl. . .. 



IS 



XOASr DUCK—PARTRIDGES. 





ROAST DUCK. 

A young duckling may be carved in the same manner as'a fowl, the legs and 
wings being taken off firgt on either side. When the duck is full size, carve it 
like a goose; first cutting it in slices from the breast, beginning dose to the 
wing and proceeding upward towards the breast bone, as is represented by the 
lines-1 to 2. An opening may be made, by cutting out a circular slice as shown 
by the dotted lines at number 3. 

Some are fond of the feet, and when dressing the ducl^ these should be 
neatly skinned and never removed. Wild duck is highly esteemed by epicureaj 
it is trussed like a tame duck, and carved in the same manner, the breast being 
the choicest part. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Partridges are generally cleaned and trussed the same way as a pheasant, but 
the custom of cooking them vrith the head$ on is going into disuse somewhat. 
The usual way of carving them.is similar to a pigeon, dividing it into two equal 
parts. Another method is to cut it into three pieces> by severing a wing and 
leg on either side from the body, by following the lines 1 to 2, thus TnalHtig two 
servings of those pacts, leaving the breast for a third plate. The third method 
is to thrust back the body from the legs, and cut through the middle of the 
breast, thus making four portions that may be served. Orouse and prairie* 
chicken are carved from the breast when they are lai^, and quartered or 
halved when of medium size. 




PMSASANT—P/GBOMS. 



«» 




PHEASANT. 

Place your fork flrmlj in the centre of the breast of this large game bird and 
cut deep slices to the bone at figures 1 and 2; then take off the leg in the line 
from 3 and 4 and the wing 8 and 5, severing both sides the same. In taking off 
the wings, be earefuLnot to cut too near the neck; if you do you wiO hit upon 
the neck-bone, from which the wing must be separated. Pass the luife through 
the line 6, and under the merry>thought towards the neck, which will detach it. 
Cut the other parts as in a fowL The breast, wings, and merry-thought of a 
pheasant, are the most highly prized, although the legs are considered very 
finely flavored. Pheasants are frequently roasted with the bead left on; in that 
case, when dressing them, bring the head round under the wing, and fix it on the 
point of a skewer. 

PIGEONS. 

A very good way of carving these birds is to insert the knife at figure 1, and 
cut both ways to 2 and 3, when each portion may be divided into two pieces, 
then served. Pigeons, if not too large, may be cut in halves, either across or 
down the middle, cutting them into two equal parts; if young and small they 
may be served entirely whole. 

Tame pigeons should be cooked as soon as possible after they are killed, as 
they very quickly lose their flavor. Wild pigeons, on the contrary, should hang 
a day or two in a cool place before they are dressed. Oranges cut into halves 
are used as a garnish for dishes of small birds, such as pigeons, quails, woodcock, 
squabs, snipe, etc. These small birds are eitiier served whole or spUt down the 
back, making two servings. 



ao 



MACKEREI^BOILED SAJJUOM. 





MACKEREL. 

The mackerel is one of the most beautiful of fish, being known hj their 
silveiy whiteness. It sometimes attains to the length of twenty inches, but 
usually, when fully grown, is about fourteen or sixteen inches long, and about 
two pounds in weight. To carve a baked mackerel, first remove the head end 
tan by cutting downward at 1 and 2; then split them down the back, so as 
foserve each person a part of each side piece. The roe should be divided io 
email pieces and served with each piece of fish. Other whole fish may be carved 
in the same manner. The fish is laid upon a Uttle sauce or folded oapkiQ, on 
a hot didi, and garnished with parsley. 

BOILED SALMON. 

This fish is seldom sent to the table whole, being too large for any ordinary 
sized family; the middle-cut is considered the choicest to boil. To carve it; first 
run the knife down and along the upper side of the iSsh from 1 to 2, then again 
on the lower side from 3 to 4. Serve the thick part, cutting it lengthwise in 
slices in the direction of the line from 1 to 2, and the thin part breadthwise, or 
in the direction from 5 to 6. A slice of the thick with one of the thin, where 
lies the fat, should be served to each guest. Care should be taken when carv- 
ing not to break the flakes of the fish, as that impairs its appearance. The 
flesh of the salmon is rich and delicious in flavor. Salmon is in season 
from the first of February to the end of August. 





Consomm6, or Stock, forms the basis of all meat soups, and also of aU princi 
pal sauces. It is, therefore, essential to the success of these culinaiy operations 
to know the most complete and economical method of extracting from a certain 
quantity of meat the best possible stock or broth. Fresh imcooked beef makes 
the best stock, with the addition of ctacked bones, as the glutinous matter con' 
tained in them renders it important that theyshould be boiled with the meat, 
which adds to the stteogth and thickness of the soup. They are composed of 
an earthy Bubdtanc&>— to which they owe their solidity— of gelatine, and a fatty 
fluid, something like marrow. Two ounces of them contain as much gelatine 
as one pound of meat; but in them, this is so encased in the earthy substance, 
that boiling water can dissdve only the surface of the whole bones, but by 
breaking them they can be dissolved more. When there is an abundance of it, 
it causes the stock, when cold, to become a j^y. The flesh of old animala 
contains more flavor than the fle^ of young ones. Brown meats contain more 
flavor than white. 

Mutton is too strong in flavor for good stock, white velQ, although quite 
glutinous, furnishes very little nutriment. 

Some cooks use meat that has once be^ cooked; this renders little nouEifib* 
ment and destroys the flavor. It might answer for ready soup, but for stoCktO 
keep it is not as good, unless it should be roasted meats. Those contain higher 
fragrant properties; so by putting the remains of roast meats in the stock-pot 
you obtain a better flavor 

The shin bone is generally used, but the neck or "sticking piece," as the 
butchers call it, contains more of the substance that you want to extract, makes 
a stronger and more nutritious soup, than any other part of the animaL Meats 
for soup should always be put on to cook in cold water, in a covered pdt, and 
aJlowed to simmer slowly for several hours, in order that the essence of tb» 
tnoat may be drawn out thoroughly, and should be carefully skimmed to pi^ 



tz soul's. 

▼ent it from becoming turbid, never allowed to boil fast at any timei and if men 
water is needed, ose boiling water from the tea-kettle; cold or lukewarm water 
spoils the flavor. Never salt it before the meat is tender (as that hardens and 
toughens the meat), especially if the meat is to be eaten. Take off every parti> 
cle of scimi as it rises, and before the vegetable are put irt 

Allow a little less than a quart of wat«r to a pound of meat and bone, and a 
teaspoonf ul of salt. When done, strain through a colander. If for clear soups 
strain again through a hair sieve, or fold^a clean towel in a colander set over 
an earthen bowl, or any dish large enough to hold the stock. As stated before, 
stock is not as good when made entirely from cooked meats, but in a family 
where it requires a large joint roasted every day, the bones and bits and under- 
done pieces of beef, or the bony structiu« of turkey or chicken that has bees 
left from carving, bones of roasted poultry, these all assist in imparting a rich 
dark color to soup, and would be sufScient, if stewed as above, to furnish 'a 
family, without buying &esh meat for the purpose; still, with the addition of a 
little fresh meat it would be more nutritious. In cold weather you can gather 
them up for several days and put them to cook in (*-oId water, and when done, - 
strain, and put aside until needed. 

Soup will be as good the second day as the first if heated to the boiling 
point. It should never be left in the pot, but should be turned into a dish or 
sbailow pan, and set aside to get cold. Never cover it up, as that will cause it 
to turn sour very quickly. 

Before heating a second time, remove all the fat from the top. If this be ' 
melted in, the flavor of the soup will certainly be spoiled. 

Thickened soi^s require nearly double the seasoning used for thin soups or 
broth. 

Coloring is used in some brown soups, the chief of which is brown burnt 
sugar, which is known as caramel by French cooks. 

Pounded spinach leaves give a fine green color to soup. Parsley, or thr 
green leaves of celery, put in soup will serve instead of spinach. 

Pound a large handful of spinach in a mortar, then tie it in a cloth, and 
wring out all the juice; put this in the soup you wish to color green, five mis- 
utes before taking it up. 

Mock turtle, and sometimes veal and Iamb soups, should be this color. 

Ochras gives a green color to soup. • 

To color soup red, skin six red tomatoes, squeeze out the seeds and put them 
into the' soup with the other vegetaUe^^or take the juice only as direoted>ftv 
simuu^L * 



SOUi>S. q 

For white soups, which aa« o£ v«al, lamb or chicken, none but white regfita^ 
bles aie used; rice, pearl barley, vermicelli, or macaroni for thickening. 

Grated carrot gives a fine amber color to soup; it must be put in as soon aa 
the soup is free from scum. 

Hotel and piivate-house stock is qtdte different. 

Hotels use meat in such large quantities, that there is always more or 
lees trimmings and bones of meat to add to fresh meats; that makes very 
strong stock, which they use in most all Boups and gravies and other made 
dishes. 

The meat from which soup has been made is good to serve cold thus: take 
out all the bones, season with pepper and salt, and catsup, if liked, then chop 
it smaU, tie it in a cloth, and lay it between two plates, with a weight on the 
upper one: sl^ce it thin for luncheon or supper; or make sandwiches of it; or 
make a hash for breakfast; or make it into balls, with the .addition of a little 
wheat flour and an egg, and serve them fried in fat, or boil in the soup. 
. An agreeable flavor is sometimes imparted to soup by sticking some cloves 
into the meat used for making stock; a few dices of onions fried very brown 
in butter are nice; also flour browned by simply putting it into a saucepan oves 
the flre and stirring it constantly until it is a dark brown. 

Clear soups must be perfectly transparent and thickened soups about th» 
consistence of cream. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot 
weather, they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-sqalded pans 
or tureens, and placed in a cool cellar. In temperate wither, every other da; 
may be sufficient. 

HERBS AND VEGETABLES USED IN SOUPS. 

Of vegetables the principal ones are carrots, tomatoes, asparagus, green peai^ 
okra, macaroni, green com,, beans, rice, vermicelli, Scotch barley, pearl barley, 
wheat flour, mushroom or mushroom catsup, parsnips, beet-root, turnips, leefia^ 
garlic, shalots and onions; sliced onions fried with butter and flour until they 
are browned, then rubbed through asieve, are excellent to heighten thecoloraGul 
flavor of brown sauces fuid soups. The herbs usually used in soups are panUe]^ 
common thym^ summer savory, knotted ma^ofam, and other seasonings bu(^ 
as bay-leaves, tarragon, allspice, oinuamon, nutmeg, doves, mace, black and 
white pepper, red pepper, lemon-peel and juice, orange peel and juice. The 
tatter imitarts a finor ^ver and the acid much milder. These materials, wUb 
vnne, and the various catsups, combined in various proportions, ar^ wi& other 
ngredients, made into almost an endless variety of excellent soups and gra\'ie& 



34 SOUPS. 

Soups that are intended for the principal part of a meal certainly ought not to 
be flavored like sauces, which are only intended to give relish to some particular 
dish. 

STOCK. 

Six pounds of shin of beef, or six pounds of knuckle of Teal; any bones, trim- 
mings of poultry, or fresh meat; one-quarter pound of lean bacon or ham, two 
ounces of butter, two large onions, each stuck with cloves; one turnip, three 
caiTots, one head of celery, two ounces of salt, one-half teaspoonful of whole 
pepper, one large blade of mace, one bunch of savory herbs except sage, four 
quarts and one-half pint of cold ivater. 

Gut up the meat and bacon, or bam, into pieces of about three inches 
square; break the bones into small pieces, rub the butter on the bottom of the 
stewpan; put in one-half a pint of water, the broken bones, then meat and all 
other ingredients. Cover the stewpan, and place it on a sharp fire, occasionally 
stirring its contents. When the bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale, 
jelly-like substance, add the four quarts of cold water, and simmer very gently 
for five or six hours. As we have said before, &q not let it boil quickly. When 
nearly cooked, throw in a tablespoonful of salt to assist the scum to rise. Be- 
move every particle of scum whilst it is doing, and strain it through a fine hair 
sieve; when cool remove all grease. This stock will keep for many days in cold 
weather. 

Stock is the basis of many of the soups afterwards mentioned, and this will 
be found quite strong enough for ordinary purposes. Keep it in small jars, in a 
cool place. It makes a good gravy for hash meats; one tablespoonful of it is 
sufficient to impart a fine flavor to a dish of macaroni and various other dishes. 
Good soups of various kinds are made from it at short notice; slice off a portion 
of the jelly, add water, and whatever vegetables and thickening preferred. It is 
best to partly cook the vegetables before adding to the stock,' as much boiling 
injures the flavoring of the soup. Season and boil a few moments and serve 
hot. 

WHITE STOCK. 

White stock is fased in the preparation of white soups, and is made by boil- 
ing six pounds of a knuckle of veal, cut up in small pieces, poultry irimmings, 
and four slices of lean ham. Proceed according to directions given in " Stock,*' 
above. 



SOVI'S. i% 

TO CLARIFY STOCK 

Place the stock in a clean saucepan, set it over a brisk fire. When boiling, add 
the white of one egg to each quart of stock, proceeding as follows: beat the 
•iriiites of the eggs up well m. a little water; then add a little hot stock; beat to 
a froth, and pour gradually into the pot; then beat the whole hard and long; 
allow it to boil up once, and inunediately remove and strain through a thin flan- 
nel cloth. 

BE£F SOUP. 

Select a small shin of beef of moderate size, crack the hone in small pieces, 
wash and place it in a kettle to boil, with five or sis quarts of cold water, liet 
it boU about two hours, or until ft begins to get tender^ then season it with a 
tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper; boil it one hour longer, then 
add to it one carrot, two turnips, two tablespoonfuls of rice or pearl barley, one 
head of celery and a teaspoonful of summer savory powdered fine; the vegetables 
to be minced up in small pieces like dice. After these ingredients have boUed 
a quarter of an hour, put in two potatoes cut up in small pieces; let it boil half 
an hoar longer, take the meat from the soup, and if intended to be served with 
it, take out the bones and lay it closely and neatly on a dish, and garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Serve made mustard and catsup with it. It is very nice pressed and eaten 
cold with mustard and vinegar, or catsup. Four hours are required for making 
this soup. Should any remain over the first day, it may be heated, with tha 
addition of a little boiling water, and served again. Some fancy a glass of 
brown sherry added just before being served. Serve very hot. 

VEAL SOUP. (Excellent.) 
Put a knuckle of veal into three quarts of cold water, with a small quantity 
of ealt. and one small tablespoonful of uncooked rice. Boil slowly, hardly 
above fflmmering, four hours, when the liquor should be reduced to half the 
usual quantity; remove from the fire. Into the tureen put the yolk of one egg, 
and stir well into it a teacupful of cream, or, in hot weatiier, new milk; add a 
irfece of butter the size of a hickory-nut; on this strain the soup, boiling hot, 
staixing all the time. Just at the last, beat it well for a minute. 

SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH, 
ffix pounds neck of mutton, three quarts water, five carrots, five turnips, two 
ttdoosk -four tablespoonfuls bailey, a little ealt Soak mutton in water for ao 



•» SOUPS. 

hour, cut off scrag, and put it in stewpan with three quarts of water. As Boon 
«s it boils, skim well, and then simmer for one and one-half hours. Cut best 
end of mutton into cutlets, dividing it with two bones in each; take off nearly 
all fat before you put it into broth; skim the moment the meat boils, and every 
ten minutes afterwards;, add carrots, turnips and onions,^ cut into two or three 
pieces, then put them into soup soon enough to be thoroughly done; 8<ar in bar^ 
ley; add salt to taste; let all stew together for three and one-half hours: about 
one-half hoar before sending it to table, put in little chopped parsley and serve. 

Cut the me^t off the scrag into small pieces, a^d send it to table in the tureen 
with the soup. The other half of the -mutton should be served on a separate 
dish, with whole turnips boiled and laid round it. Many persons are fond of 
mutton that has been boiled in soup. 

You may thicken the soup with rice or barley that has first been soaked in 
cold vraA/ex; or with green peas; or with young com, cut down fnHn the cob; 
or with tomatoes scalded, peeled and cut into pieces. 

GAME SOUP. 

Two grouse or partridges, or, if you have neither, use a pair of rabbits; half 
a pound of lean ham; two medium-sized onions; one poimd of lean beef; fried 
bread; butter for frying; pepper, salt, and two stalks of white fcelery cut into 
inch lengths; three quarts of water. 

Joint your game neatly; cut the ham and onions into small pieces, and fiy 
all in butter to a light brown. Put into a soup-pot with the beef, cut into strips, 
and a little pepper. Pour on the water; heat slowly, and stew gently two hours. 
Take out the pieces of bird, and cover in a bowl; cook the soup an hour longer; 
strain: cool; drop in the celery, and simmer ten minutes. Pour upon fried 
bread in the tureen. 

Venison soup made the same, with the addition of a tablespoonful of brown 
flour wet into a paste with cold, water, adding a tablespoonful of catsup, Worces- 
tershire, or other pungent sauce, and a glass of Madeira or brown sherry. 

CONSOMME SOUP. 

Take good strong stock (see pages 21 and 24)j remove all fat from the snrface, 
atul for each quart of the stock allow the white and shell of one egg and a table* 
epoonftd of water, well whipped together. Poor this uiztare into a saucepan 
COBtaiaiag tiie slodc; place it over the fire and heat the contents gradually, stirring 
often to prevent the egg from sticking to the bottom of the uucepan. Allow it to 



SOUPS. ty 

boil genUy nntil the Btock k)oks perfectly dear nnder the egg, which will rise and 
fioat upon the enrface in the form o£ a thick white scnni. Kow remove it and ponr 
'it. into a folded towel laid in. a colander Bet over an earthen bowl, allowing it to rcn 
throngh without moving or squeezing it Season with more salt if needed, and 
qnickly serve very hob This should be a dear amber color. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Cut carrots and tmmips into quarter inch pieces the shape of dice; also celery 
into thin slices. Cover them with boiling water; add a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful pepper, and cook until sofL In another saucepan have two quarts of 
boiling stock (see pages 21 and 24), to which add the cooked vegetables, the water 
and more seasoning if necessary. Serve hoi 

In the spring and summer season use asparagus, peas and string beans— all cut 
into small uniform thickness. 

CREAM OF SPINACH. 

Pick, wash and boil enough spinach to measure a pint, when cooked, chopped 
and pounded into a soft paste. Pat it into a stewpan vrith four ounces of fresh 
batter, a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt. Cook and stir it about ten 
minutes. Add to -this two quarte of strong stock (see pages 21 and 24) ; let boil up, 
then rub it through a strainer. Set it over the fire again, and, when on the point of 
boiling, mix with it a teblespoonfal of 1>utter, aod a teaspoonful of granulated sugar. 

CHICKEN CREAM SOUP. 

An old cMcken for soup is much the bSst. Cut it up into quarters, put it 
into a soup kettle with half a pound of corned ham, and an onion; add four 
quarts of cold water. Bruig slowly to a gentle boil; and keep this up imtil the 
liquid has duninisbed one-third, and the meat drops from the bones; then add 
half a cup of rice. Season with salt, pepper, and a bunch of chopped paisley. 

Cook slowly until the rice is tender, then the meat should be taken out. 
Now, stir in two cups of rich milk thickened with a little flour. The chickea 
Could be £ried in a spoonful 6f butter and a gravy made, reserving some of thd 
white part of the meat, chopping it and adding it to the-soup. 

PLAIN ECONOMICAL SOUP. 

Take a cold-roast-beef bone, pieces of beef -steak, the rack of a cold turkey or 
chicken. Put them into a pot vnth three or four quarts of Water, two carrots, 
three turnips, one ooioa, a few doTfls. pafiper and salt. Boil the whole (ffXDl&f 



28 SOUK. 

fonr hours; then etrain it through a colander, mashing the vegetables so that 
they -wiU all pass through. Skim off the fat, and return the soup to the pot. 
Mix one tablespoonful of flour with two of water, stir it into the soup and boil 
the whole ten minutes. Serve thi? soup ^vith sippets of toast. 

Sippets are bits of dry toast cut into a triangular form. 

A seasonable dish about the holidays. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Two ox-tails, two slices of ham, one ounce of butter, two carrots, two turnips, 
ihree onions, one leek, one head of celery, one bunch of savoryjierbs, pei^per» a 
cablespoonfui of salt, two tablespoonf uls o? catsup, one-half glass of port wine, 
three quarts of water. 

Cut up the tails, separating them at the joints; wash them, and put 
them in a stewpan with the butter. Cut the vegetables in slictes and add them with 
the herbs. Put in one-half pint -of water, and stir it over a quick fire till thei 
juices are drawn. Fill up the stewpan'with water, and when boiling, add the salt. 
Skim well, and simmer very gently for four hours, oruntil the tails are tender. 
Take them out, sldm and strain the soup, thicken with flour, and flavor w^th the 
catsup and port wine. Put back the tails, simmer for five minutes and serve. 

Another way to make a;i appetizing ox-taU soup. You should begin to make it 
the day before you wish to eat the soup. Take two tails, wash clean, and put 
in a kettle with nearly a gallon of cold water; add a small handful of salt; 
when the meat is well cooked, take out the bones. Let this stand in a cool 
room, covered, and nest day, about an hour and a half before dinner, skim off 
the crust or cake of fat which has risen to the top. Add a little onion, carrot, 
Or any vegetables you choose, chopping them fine first; Eummer savory may 
also be added. 

CORN SOUP. 

Cut the com from the cob, and boil the cobs in water for at least an hour, ' 
then add the grains, and boil imtil they are thoroughly done; put one dozen 
ears of com to a gallon of water, which will be reduced to three quarts by the 
time the soup is done; then pour on a pint of new milk, two well-beaten eggs, 
salt and pepper to your taste; continue the boiling a while longer, and stir in, to 
season and thicken it a little, a tablespoonful of good butter rubbed up with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Com soup may also be made nicely with water in 
which a pair of grown fowls have been boiled or .(>arboil9di. instead of having 
plain ^ater for the foundation. 



SOUPS. »9 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. No. I. 
Wash wen a pint of split peas and cover them well with cold water, abiding 
a third of a teaspoonful of soda; let them remain in it over night to swell. In 
the morning put them in a kettle with a dose fitting cover. Pour over them 
three quarts of cold water, adding half a pound of lean ham or bacon cut into 
slices or pieces^ also a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper, and some celery 
chopped fine. When the soup begins to boil, skim the froth from the surface. 
Cook SI0WI7 from three to four hours, stirring occasionally till the peas are all 
dissolved, adding a Uttle more boiling water to keep up the quantity as it boils 
away. Strain through a colander, and leave out the meat. It should be quite 
thick. Serve with small squares of toasted bread, cut up and added. If not 
rich enough, add a small piece of butter. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 
For making two quarts of eonp, use two bundles of fresh asparagus. Cut the 
tops from one of the bunches and cook them twenty minutes in salted water, enough 
to cover them. Cook the remainder of the asparagus about twenty minutes in a quart 
of stock or water. Cut an onion into thin slices and fry in three tablespoonfuls of 
butter ten minutes, being careful not to scorch it;, then add the asparagus that has 
been boiled in the stock; cook this five minutes, stirring constantly; then add three 
tablespoonfuls of dissolved flour, cook five minutes longer. Turn this mixture into 
the boiling stock and boil twenty minutea Enb through a sieve; add the milk and 
cream and the aspatagus heads. If water is used in place of stock, use all cream. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Wash a small quarter of Iamb in cold water, and put it into a soup-pot with 
six quarts of cold water; add to it two tablespoonfuls of salt, and set it over a 
moderate fire— let it boil gently for two hours, then skun it dear: add a quart 
of shelled peas, and a teaspoonful of pepper; cover it, and let it boil for half an 
hour; then having scraped the skins from a quart of small young potatoes, odd 
them to the soup; cover the pot and let it boil for half an hova longer; work 
quarter of a pound of butter and a dessert spoonful of floor together, and add 
them to the soup ten or twelve minutes before taking it off the fire. 

Serve the meat on a dish with parsley sauce over, and the soup in a tureen. 

DRIED BEAN SOUP. 
Pat two quarts of dried white beans to soak the night before you make the 
soup, which should be put on as early in the day as possible. 



Take two pounds of the lean of fresh beef— the coarse pieces vt31 clo. Cut 
them up, and put them into your soup-pot with the bones belonging to them, 
(which should be broken in pieces,) and a pound of lean bacon, cut very smalL 
If you have the remains of a piece of beef that has been roasted the day before, 
and so much under-done that the juices remain in it, you may put it into the 
pot and its bones along with it. Season the meat' with pepper only, and pour 
on it six quarts of water. As soon as it boils, take off the scum, and put in the 
beans (having first drained them) and a head of celery cut small, or a table- 
spoonful of pounded celery seed. Boil it slowly till the. meat is done to shreds, 
and the beans all dissolved. Then strain it through a colander into the tureen, 
and put into it small squares of toasted bread with the crust cut off. 

TURTLE SOUP FROM BEANS. 

Soak over night one quart of black beans; nezt day boil them in the proper 
quantity of water, say a gallon, then dip the beans out of the pot and str^ 
them through a colander. Then return the flour of the beans, thus pressed, into 
the pot in which they were boiled. Tie up in a thin cloth some thyme, a tea- 
Bpoonful of summer savory and parsley, and let it boil in the mixture. Add a 
tablespoonf ul of cold butter, salt and pepper. Have ready four hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs quartered, and a few force meat balls; add this to the soup with a sliced 
lemon, and half a glass of wine just before serving the soup. 

This approaches so near in flavor to the real turtle soup that few aie able to 
distinguish the difference, 

PHILADELPHIA PEPPER POT. 

Put two pounds of tripe and fovu- calves' feet into the soup-pot and cover 
them with cold water; add a red pepper, and boil closely until the calves' feet 
are boiled very tender; take out the meat, skim the hquid, stir it, cui, the tripe 
into small pieces, and put it back into the liquid; if there is not eaouga liquid, 
add boiling water; add half a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, sweet basil, and 
thyme, two sliced onions, sUced potatoes, salt. When the vegetables have 
boiled until almost tender, add a piece of butter rolled in flour, drop in some egg 
balls, and boil fifteen minutes more. Take up and gerve hot. 

SQUIRREL SOUP. 

Wash and quarter three or four good sized squirrels; put themQn, with » 
■man tablegpoonful of salt, directly after breakfast, in a gallon of c«>M water 



SOUPS. 3> 

Cover the pot close, and set it on the back part of the stove to simmer gently, 
not boiL Add vegetables just the same as you do in case of other meat soups 
in the summer season, but especially good will you find com, Irish potatoes, 
tpmatoes and Lima beans. Strain t^e soup through a coarse colander when the 
meat has boiled to shreds, so as to get rid of the squirrel's troublesome little 
bones. Then retimi to the pot, and after boilmg a while longer, thicken with a 
piece of butter rubbed in flour. Celery and parsley leaves chopped up are also 
considered an improvement by many. Toast two slices of bread, cut them into 
dice one half inch square, fry them in butter, put them into the bottom o£ 
yotu- tureen, and then pour the soup boiling hot upon them. Very good. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. i. 

Place in a kettle four pounds of beef. Pour over it one gallon of cold water. 
Let the meat and water boil slowly for three hours, or untU the liquid is reduced 
to about one-half. Remove the meat and put into the broth a quart of tomatoes, 
and one chopped onion; salt and pepper to taste. A teaspoonfiil of flour should 
be dissolved and stirred in, then allowed to boil half an hour longer. Strain 
and serve hot. Canned tomatoes, in place of fresh ones, may be used. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 2. 

Place over the fire a quart of peeled tomatoes, stew them soft with a pinch 
of soda. Strain it so that no seeds remain, set it over the fire again, and add a 
quart of hot boiled milk; seasoawith salt and pepper, a piece of butter tiie size 
of an egg, add three tablespoonfuls of rolled cracker, and serve hot. Canned 
tomatoes may be used in place of fresh ones. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 3. 

Peel two quarts of tomatoes, boil them in a sauce-pan with an onion, and 
other soup vegetables; strain and add a level tablespoonful of flour dissolved in 
a third of a cup of melted butter; add pepper and salt. Serve very hot over 
little squares of bread fried brown and crisp in butter. 

An excellent addition to a cpld meat lunch. 



MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. (As made in India.) 

Cut four onions, one carrot, two turnips, and one head of odery into three 
quarts of liquor, in which one or two fowls have been boiled; keep it over a biisK 



32 - SOUPS. 

fire, till it boils, then place it on a comer of the fire, and let it simmer twenty min- 
utes; add one tablespoonful of currie powder, and one tablespoonful of flour; mix 
the whole well together, and let it boil three minutes; pass it through a colander; 
serve with pieces of roast chicken in it; add boiled rice in a separate dish. It 
must be of good yellow color, and not too thick. If you find it too thick, add a 
little boiling water and a teaspoonful of sugar. Hedf veal and half chicken an- 
swers as well. 

A dish of rice, to be served separately with this soup, must be thus prepared: 
put three pints of water in sauce-pan and one tablespoonful of salt; let this 
boil. Wash well, in three waters, half a pound of rice; strain it, and put it into 
the boiling water in sauce-pan. After it has come to the boil— which it will do 
in about two minutes— let it boil twenty minutes; strain it through a colander, 
and pour over it two quarts of cold water. This will separate the grains of rice. 
Put it back in the sauce-pan, and place it near the fire until hot enough to send 
to the table. This is also the proper way to boil rice for curries. If these direc- 
tions are st'rictly carried out every grain of the rice will separate, and be thor> 
oughly cooked. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP, OF CALF'S HEAD. 

Scald a well-cleansed calf's head, remove the brain, tie it up in a cloth, and 
boil an hour, or until the meat will easily slip from the bone; take out, save the. 
broth; cut it in small, square pieces, and throw them into cold water; wheii 
cool, put it in a stewpan, and cover with same of the broth; let it boil orttil 
quite tender, and set aside. 

In another stewpan melt some butter, and in it put a quarter of a pound ci. 
lean ham, cut small, with fine.herbs to taste; also parsley and one onion; add 
about a pint of the broth; let it simmer for two hours, and then dredge in a 
small quantity of flour; now add the remainder of the broths and a quarter 
bottle of Madeira or sherry; let all stew quietly for ten minutes and rub it 
through S, medium sieve; add the calf's head, seasou with a very little cayenne 
pepper, a little salt, the juice of one lemon, and if desired, a quarter teaspoon- 
ful pounded mace and a dessert-Bpoan sugar. 

Having previously prepared force-meat balls, add them to the soup, and 
five minutes after serve hot. 

GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 

One turtle, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, juice of one lemon, five 
quarts of water, a glass of Madeira, 



SOU^S. iS 

After removing the entrails, cut up the coarser parts ot the turtle meat and 
bones. Add four quarts of water, and stew four hours with the herbs, onioos, 
pepper and salt. Stew very slowly, do not let it cease boiling during this time. 
At the end of four hours strain the soup, and add the finer parts of the turtle 
and the green fat, which has been simmered one hour in two quarts of water. 
Thicken with brown flour; return to the soup- pot, and simmer gently for an 
hour longer. If there are eggs m the turtle, bod them in a separate vessel for 
four hours, and throw into the soup before taking up. If not, put in force-meat 
balls; then the juic e of the le mon, aud the wine; beat up at onc e and pour out 

Some cooks add the fiaer' meat before straining, boiling all together five 
hours; then strain, thicken, and put in the green fat, cut into lumps an inch 
long. This makes a handsomer soup than if the meat is left in. 

Green turtle can now be purchased preserved in air-tight cans. 

Force Meat Balls for the Above.— Six tablespoonfuls of tmtle-meat chopped 
very fine. Rub to a paste, with the yolk of two hard-boiled eggs, a tablespoon-' 
ful of butter, and, if convenient a little oyster Uquor. Season with cayenne, 
mace, and half a teaspoonf ul of white sugar and a pinch of salt. Bind all wi^ 
a weU-beaten egg; shape into small balls; dip in egg, then powdered cracker; 
fry in butter, and drop into the soup when it is served. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

To a rich beef or other soup, in which there is no seasomng other than pep- 
per or salt, take half a pound of smaU pipe macaroni, boil it in clear water luitil 
it is tender, then drain it and cut it in pieces of an inch length; boil it for fifteen 
minutes in the soup and serve. 

TURKEY SOUP, 

Take the turkey bones aud boil three-quarters of ian hour in water enough to 
cover'them; add a little summer savory and celery chopped fine. Just before 
serving, thicken with a little flour (browned), and season -mth pepper, salt, 
and a smaU piece of butter. This is a cheap but jgood soup, using the remains of 
cold turkey which might otherwise be thrown away. 

GUMBO OR OKRA SOUP. 

Fry out the far of a slice of bacon or fat ham, drain it off, and in it flcy the 
slices of a large onion broWn; scald, peel, and cut up two quarts fresh tomatoes, 
when in season, (use canned tomatoes otherwise), and cut thin one qfXBOX o\av 



34 SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 

put them, together with a little chopped parsley, in a stew-kettle wiib about 
three quarts of hot broth of any kind; cook slowly for three boiu:s, season with 
salt and pepper. Serve hot, 

In chicken broth the same qoajitity of okra pods, used for thickening instead 
of tomatoeSi forms a chicken gumbo soup. 

TAPIOCA CREAM SOUR 

One quart of white stock; one pint of cream or milk; one onion; two stalks 
celeiy ; one-third of a cupful of tapioca; two cupfuls of cold water; one table- 
spoonful of butter; a small piece of mace; salt, pepper. Wash the tapioca and 
soak over night in cold water. Cook it and the stock together very gently for 
one hour. Cut the onion and celery into small pie<%s, and put on to cook for 
twenty minutes with the milk and mace. Strain on the tapioca and stock. 
Season with salt and pepper, add butter, and serve. 



Soups Mttbout ^eat 

ONION SOUP. 

One quart of milk, six large onions, yolks of four eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of butter, a large one of flour, one cupful of cream, salt, pepper. Put the but* 
ter in a frying pan. Cut the onions iuta thin slices and drop in the butter. Stir 
until they begin to cook; then cover tight and set back where they will simmer, 
but not bum, for half an hour. Now put the milk on to boil, and then add the 
dry flom* to the onions and stir constantly for three minutes over the fire; theo 
turn the mixture into the milk and cook fifteen minutes. Bub the soup through 
a strainer, return to the fire, season with salt and pepper. Beat the yolks of thf 
eggs well, add the cream to them and stir into the soup. Cook three minutes, ^ 
stirring constantly. If you have no cream, use milk, in which case add a table- 
spoonful of butter at the same time. Pour over fried croutons in a soup tureen. 

This is a refresMag dish when one is fatigued. 

WINTER VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Scrape and slice three turnips and three carrots, and peel three onions, and 
try aU' with a little butter until a light yellow; add a bunch of celery and three 
or four leeks cut in pieces; stir and fry all the ingredients for w± minutes; 



SOUPS WtTHOVr MEA T. J5 

wb«n fried, add one clove of garUc, two stalks of parsley, two clones, salt, pep- 
per and a little grated nutmeg; coyer with three quarts of water and sinoiner 
for three hours, taking ofif the scum carefully. Strain and use. Croutons, 
vermicelli, Italian pastes, or rice may be added. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Swell quarter of a pound of Termicelli in a quart of warm water, then add it to 
a good beef, veal, lamb, or chicken soup or broth, with quarter of a pound of 
Bweet butter; let the soup boil for fifteen minutes after it is added. 

SWISS WHITE SOUP. 

A sufficient quantity of •broth for six people; boil it; beat up three eggs well, 
two spoonfuls of flour, one cup milk; pour these gradually through a sieve into 
the boiling; soup salt and pepper. 

SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Half pint green peas, two shredded lettuces, one onion, a small bimch of 
parsley, two ounces butter, the yolks of three eggs, one pint of water, one and a 
half quarts of soup stock. Put in a stewpau the lettuce, onion, parsley and but- 
ter, with one pint of water, and let them simmer till tender. Season with 
salt and pepper. When done strain off the vegetables, and put two-thiids of 
the liquor with the stock. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the other third, 
loss it over the fire, and at the moment of serving add this with the vegetabli^ 
to the strained-ofT soup. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Celery soup may be made with vahtii stock: Cut down the white of half a 
dozen heads of cel6ry into littla pieces and boil it in four pints of white stock, 
with a quarter of a pound of lean ham and two ounces of butter. Simmer gently 
for a full hour, then strain through a sieve, return the liquor to the pan, and 
stir in a few spoonfuls of cream with great care. Serve with toasted bread and, 
if Uked, thicken with a little floor. Season to taste. 

IRISH POTATO SOUP. 

Peel and boO eight medium-sized potatoes with a large onion, sliced, some 
' herbs, salt and pepper; press aU through a colander; then thin it with rich milk 
and add a lump of butter, more seasoning, if necessary; let it beat well and 
serve hot. 



JO SOUPS WITBOUT MEAT. 

PEA SOUP. 

Put a quart of dried peas into fivo quarts of water; boil for four hours; then 
add three or four large onions, two heads of celery, a carrot, two turnips, all cut 
up rather fine. Season with pepper and salt. Boil two hours longer, and if the 
soup becomes too thick add more water. Strain through a colander and stir in 
a tablespoonful of cold butter. Serve hot, with small pieces of toasted bread 
placed in the bottom of the tureen. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Beat up one egg light, add a pinch of salt, and flour enough to make a very 
ei^y dough; roll out very thin, like thin pie crust, dredge with flour to keep from 
sticking. Let it remain on the bread board to dry. for an hour or more; then 
roll it up into a tight scroll, like a sheet of music. Begin at the end and slice it 
into slips as thin as straws. After all are cut, mix them lightly togetheir, and 
to prevent them sticking, keep them floured a little until you are ready to drop 
them into your soup, which should be done shortly before dinner^ for if boiled 
too long they will go to pieces. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS FOR SOUP. 

One cupful of cooked veal or fowl meat, minced; mix vrith this a handful of 
fine bread-crumbs, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs rubbed smooth together 
with a tablespoon of milk; season virith pepper and salt; add a half teaspoon of 
flour, and bind all together with two beaten eggs; the hands to be well floiu-ed, 
and the mixture to be made into little balls the size of a nutmeg, drop into the 
eonp about twenty minutes before serving. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Take the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and half a tablespoonful of wheat 
flour, rub them smooth with the yolks of two- raw eggs and a teaspoonful of 
salt; mix all well together; make it in balls, and drop them into the boiling soup 
a few minutes before taking it up. 

Used in green tiuUe soup. 

EGG DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

To half a pint of milk put two well^beaten e^s, and as much wheat flour aa 
will make a smooth, rather thick batter free from lumps; drop this batter, a 
tableepoonful at a time, into boiline soup. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 37 

Another raode.^ One cupful of sour cream and one cupful of sour milk, three 
eggs, well beaten, whites and yolks separately ; one teaspoooful of salt, one level 
teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a spoonful of water, and enough flour added to 
make a very stiff batter. To be dropped by spoonfuls into the broth and boiled 
twenty minutes, or until no raw dough shows on the outside. 

SUET DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

Three cups of sifted flour in which three teaspoonfuls of baking powder have 
been sifted; one cup of finely chopped suet, well rubbed into the flour, with a 
teaspoonful of salt. Wet all with sweet milk to make a dough as stiff as bis- 
cuit. Make into small balls as large as peaches, well floured. Drop into the 
soup three-quarters of an hour before being-served. This requires steady boil- 
ing, being closely covered, and the cover not to be removed until taken up to serve. ) 
A very good form of pot-pie. 

SOYER'S RECIPE FOR FORCE MEATS. 

Take li lbs. of lean veal from the fillet, and cui it in long thin slices; scrape 
with a knife till nothing but the fibre remains; pu<t it in a mortar, pound it 10 
minutes, or until in a purde; pass it through a wire sieve (use the remainder in 
stock); then take 1 lb. of good fresh beef suet, which skin, shred, and chop 
very fine; put it in a mortar and pound it; then add 6 oz. of panada (that is, 
bread soaked in milk, and boiled tUl nearly dry) with the suet; pound them well 
together, and add the veal; season with 1 teaspoonful of ^alt, i teaspoonful of 
pepper, i that of nutmeg; work all well together; then add 4 eggs by degrees, 
continually pounding the contents of the mortar! ' When well mixed, take a 
small piece in a spoon, and poach it in some boiling water; and if it is delicate, 
firm, and of a good flavor, it is ready for use. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

In a frying pan have the depth of an inch of boiling fat; also have prepared 
slices of stale bread cut up into little half -inch squares; .drop into the frying 
pan enough of these bits of bread to cover the sxuface of the fat. When 
browned, remove with a skimmer and drain; add to the hot soup and servL. 

Some prefer them prepared in this manner: 

Take very thin sUces of bread, butter them well; cut them up into little 
squares three fourths.of an inch thick, place them in a baking pan, buttered 
, ide up, and brown in a quick oven. 



j8 SOl/PS WITHOUT MEAT. 

FISH STOCK. 

Place a saucepan over the fire with a good sized piece of sweet butter, and a 
sliced onion; put into that some sliced tomatoes, then add as many different 
kinds of small fish as you can get — oysters, clams, smelts, pawns, crabs, shrimps, 
and all kinds of pan-fish; cook all together, untO the onions are well browned, 
then add a. bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and sufScient water to make 
the required amount of stock. After this has cooked for half an hour pound it 
with a wooden pestle, then strain and cook again until it jellies. 

FISH SOUP. 

Select a large, fine fish, clean it thoroughly, put it over the fire with a sufS- 
cient quantity of water, allowing for each pound of fish one quart of water; 
add an onion cut fine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When the fish is cooked, 
and is quite tasteless, strain all through a colander, return to the fire, add some 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. A small tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce 
may be added if liked. Served with small squares of fried bread and thin 
slices of lemon. 

LOBSTER SOUP, OR BISQUE. 

Have ready a good broth made of three, poimds of veal boiled slowly in as 
much water as will cover it, till the meat is reduced to shreds. It must then be 
well strained. 

Having boiled one fine middle-sized lobster, extract all the meat from the 
body and claws. Bruise part of the coral in a mortar, and also an equal quan- 
tity of the meat. Mix them well together. Add mace, cayenne, salt and 
pepper, and make them up into force-meat balls,- binding the mixture with the 
yolk of an egg slightly beaten. 

Take three quarts of the veal broth, and put into it the meat- of the lobster 
cut into mouthfuls. Boil it together about twenty minutes. Then thicken it 
with the remaining coral (which you must first rub through a sieve), and add 
the force meat balls and a little butter rolled in flour. Simmer it gently for ten 
minutes but do not let it come to a boil, as that win injure the color. Serve with 
small dice of bread fried brown in butter. 

OYSTER SOUP. No. x. 

Two quarts of oystera, one quart of mflk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
teacnpful of hot wat-or; pepper, salt. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. J 9 

Strain all the liquor from the oysters; add the water,, and heat. When near 
the hoi], add the seasoning, then the oyeters. Code about five minutes from 
the time they begin to simmer, until they ^' rufae." Stir in the butter, cook one 
minute, and pour into the tureen. Stir in the boiling millc, and send to table. 
Some prefer all water in place of milk. 

OYSTER SOUP. No. 2. 

Scald one gallon of oysters in their own Uquor. Add^ne quart of rich milk 
to the liquor, and when it comes to a boil, skim out the oysters and set aside. 
Add the yolks of four eggs, two good tablespoonfuls of butter, and one of flour, 
all mixed well together, but in this order— first, the milk, then, after beating 
the eggs, ad<Sa little of the hot Uquor to them gradually, and stir them rapidly 
into- the soup. Lastly, add the butter and whatever seasoning you fancy besides 
plain pepper and salt, which must both be put in to taste with caution. Celery salt 
most persons like extremely; others would prefer a little marjoram and thyme; 
others, again, mace and a bit of onion. Use your own discretion in this regard. 

CLAM SOUP. (French'Style.) 

Mince two dozen hard-shell clams very fine. Fry half a minced onibn in an 
ounce of butter; add to it a pint of hot water, a pinch of mace, four cloves, one 
allspice and six whole pepper corns. Bofl fifteen minutes and strain into a 
sauce-pan; add Ihe chopped clams and a pint of clam-juice or hot water; simmer 
idbwiytwo hours; strain and rub the pulp through a sieve into the liquid. 
Return it to the sauce- pan and keep it lukewarm. Boil three half pints of milk 
in a sauce-pan (previously wet with cold water, which prevents burning) and 
whisk it into the soup. Dissolve a teaspoonful of flour in cold milk, add it to the 
soup, taste for seasoning; heat it gently to near the boilmg point; pour it into a 
tureen previously heated with hot water, and serve with or without pieces of 
fried bread — called crcmtons in kitchen French. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Twenty -five clams chopped fine. Put over the fire the liquor that was 
drained from them, and a cup of water; add the chopped clams, and boil hall 
an hour: then season to taste with pepper and salt and a piece of butter as large 
as an egg; boil up again and add one quart of milk boiling hot, stir in a table- 
spoon of flour made to a cream with a little cold milk, or two crackers rollot? 
fine. Some like a little mace and lemon juice in the seasoning. 



The usual custom among professioaal cooks is to entirely immerse the article 
to be cooked in boiling fat, but ftom inconvenience most households use the 
half -frying method of frying in a small amount of fat in a frying-pan. For the 
first method a shaUovr iron frying-kettle» large at the top and small at the bottom, 
is best to use. The fat should half fill the kettle, or an amount sufficient to float 
whatever is to be fried; ttie heat of the fat should get to such a degree that, 
vrhen a piece of bread or a teaspoonful of the batter is dropped in it, it will 
become brown almost instantly, but should not be so hot as to bum the fat. 
Some cooks say that the fat should be smoking, but my experience is, that is a 
mistake, as that soon ruins the fat. As soon as it begins to smoke it should be 
removed a Uttle to one side., and still be kept at the boiling point. If fritters, 
cruBers, croquettes, etc., are dropped into fat that is too hot, it crusts over the 
outside before the inside has fully risen, making a heavy hard article, and also 
ruining thd fat, giving it a burnt flavor. 

Many French cooks prefer beef fat or suet to lard for frying purposes, con- 
sidering it more wholesome and digestible, does not impart as much flavor, or 
adhere or soak into the article cooked as pork fat. 

In famiMes of any size, where there is much cooking required, there are 
enough drippiflgs and fat remnants from roasts of beef, skimmings from the 
soup-kettle, with the addition of occasionally a pound of suet from the market, 
to amply supply the need. AE such remnants and skimmings should be clarified 
about twice a week, by boiling them all together in water. When the fat is aU 
melted, it should be strained with the water and set aside to cool. After the fat 
on the top has hardened, lift the cake from the water on which it lies, scrape off 
all the dark particles from the bottom, then melt over again the fat; while hot 
strain into a small dean stone jar or bright tin paU, and then it is ready for use. 
Always after fryinjg anything, the fat should stand until it settles and has cooled 
BOmswhat; then turn off carefully so as to leave it dear from the sediment that 
aeilteB at the bottom. 



nsH. 4t 

Refined cotton-seed oil is now being adopted by most professional cooks in 
hotels, restaurants, and many private households for culinary purposes, and ttHI 
doubtless in future supersede animal fats, especially for frying, it being quite as 
deUcate a medium as frying with ohve oiL It is now sold by leading grocers, 
put up in packages of two and four quarts. 

The second mode of frying, using a f rying-paii vinth a small quantity of fat 
or grease, to be done properly, should in the first place have the frying-pan hot 
over the fire, and the fat in it actually boiling before the article to be cooked is 
placed in it, the intense heat quickly searing up the pores of the article and 
forming a bro%vn crust on the lower side, then tummg over and browning the 
other the same way. 

Still, there is another mode of frymg; the process is somewhat similar to 
broiling, the hot frying-pan or spider replacing the hot fire. To do this cor- 
rectly, a thick bottom frying-pan should be used. Place it over the fire, and 
when it is so hot that it will siss, oil over the bottom of the pan with a piece of 
suet, that is if the meat' is all lean; if not, it is not necessary to grease the 
bottom of the pan. Lay in the meat quite flat, and brown it quickly, first on one 
side then on the other; when sufficiently cooked, dish on a hot platter and season 
the same as broiled meats. 

In selecting fish, choose those only in which the eye is full and pronunent, 
the flesh thick and firm, "the scales bright and fins stiff. They should be thor- 
oughly cleaned before booking. 

The usual modes of cooking fish are bofled, baked, broiled, fried and occa- 
sionally stewed. Steaming fish is much superior to boiling, but the ordinary 
conveniences in private houses do not admit of the possibihty of enjoying this 
delicate way of cooking it. Large fish are generally boiled, medium-sized ones 
baked or boiledj»the smaller kinds fried or broiledi. Very large fish, such as cod, 
halibut, etc., are cut in steaks or slices for frying or broiling. The heads of some 
fish, as the cod, halibut, etc., are considered tidbits by many. Small fish, or 
pan fish, as they are usually called, are served without the heads, with the 
exception of brook-trouts and smelts; these are usually cooked whole, with the 
head on. Bake fish slowly, basting often "srith butter and water. Salmon is 
coi^dered the most nutritious of aH fi^h. When boihng fish, by adding a little 
vinegar and salt to the water, it seasons and prevents the nutriment from being 
draw]>> out; the vinegar acting on the water hardens the water.. 



43 USB. 

Fill the fish vdth a nicely prepared stuffing of joUed cracker or stale bread 
crumbs, seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, sage, and any other aromatic herbs 
fancied; sew up; wrap in a well-floured cloth, tied closely with twine, and boQ 
or steam. The garnishes for boiled fish are: For turbot, fried smelts; for othei 
boiled fisli, parsley, sliced beets, lemon or sliced boiled egg. Do not use the 
knives, spoons, etc., that are used in cooking fish, for other food, or they will 
be apt to impart a fishy flavor. 

Fish tc be boiled should be put into cold water and set on the fire to cook 
very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Unless 
the fish are small, they should never be put into warm water; nor should water, 
either hot or cold, be poured on to the fiish, as it is liable to break the sMn: if it 
should be necessary to add a little water while the fish is cooking, it ought to be 
poured in gently at the side of the vesseL 

Fish to be broiled should lie, after they are dressed, for two or three houra 
with their inside well sprinkled with salt and pepper. 

Salt fish should be soaked in water before boiling, according to the time it 
has been in salt. When it is hard and dry, it will require thirty-siz hours soak- 
ing before it is dressed, and the water must be changed three or four times. 
When fish is not very salt, twenty-four hours, or even one night, will suffice. 

When frying fish the fire must be hot enough to bring the fat to such a 
degree of heat as to sear the surface and make it impervious to the fat, and at 
the same time seal up the rich juices. As soon as the fish is browned by this 
sudden application of heat, the pan maybe moved to a cooler place on the stove, 
that the process may be finished more slowly. 

Fat in which fish has been fried is just as good to use again for the same 
purpose, but it should be kept by itself and not be put to any other use. 

TO FRY FISH. 

Most of the smaller fish (generally termed pan-fish) are usually fried. Glean 
well, cut off the head, and, if quite large, cut- out the backbone, and slice the 
body crosswise into five or six pieces; season with salt and pepper. Dip in 
Indian meal or wheat flour, or in beaten egg, and roll in bread or fine cracker 
crumbs— trout and perch should not be dipped in meal; put into a thick bot- 
tomed iron frying-pan, the flesh side down, with hot lard or drippings; fry 
slowly, turtiing when lightly browned. The following method may be deemed 
preferable: Dredge the pieces with flour; brush them over with beaten egg; roll 
in bread cnmibs. and fry in hot lard or drippings sufficient to cover, the same 



Fisa. 43 

as flying crullers. If the fat is very hot, the fish will fry without, absorbing it, 
and it will be palatably cooked. When browned on one side, turn it over in the 
fat and brown the other, draining when done. This is a particularly good way 
to fry slices of large fish. Serve with tomato sauce; garnish with slices of lemon. 

PAN FISH. 

Place them in a thick bottom frying-pan with heads all one way. Fill the 
spaces with smaller fi&h. When they are fried quite brown and ready to turn, 
put a dinner plate over them, drain off the fat; then invert the pan, and they 
will be left tmbroken on the plate. Put thciard back into the pan, and when 
iMt slip back the fislu When the other side is brown, drain, turn on a plate as 
before, and slip them on a warm platter, to be sent to the table. Leaving the 
heads on and the fish a crispy-bro^vn, in perfect shape, improves the appearance 
if not the Savor. . Gai(uish with slices of lemon. 

— Hottl Lafayette, Philadelphia, 

BAKED PICKEREL. 

Carefully dean and wipe the fish, and lay in a dripping-pan with enough hot 
watet to prevent scorching. A perforated sheet of tin, fitting loosely, or several 
muffin rings may be used to keep it ofE the bottom. Lay it In a circle on its 
belly, head and tail touching, and tied, or as directed in note on fish; bake 
slowly, basting often with butter and water. When done, have ready a cup of 
sweet cream or rich millc to which a ievr spoons of hot water has been added; 
stir in two large spoons of melted butter and a little chopped parsley; heat all 
by setting the cUp in boiling water; add the gravy from the dripping-pan, and 
let it boil up once; place the fisli in a hot dish, 'and pour over it the sauce. Or 
an egg sauce may be made with drawn butter; stir in. the yolk of an egg quickly, 
And then a teaspoon of chopped parsley. It can be stuffed or not, just as you 
please. 

BOILED SALMON. 

The middls^^ slice of salmon is the best. Sew up neatly in a mosquito-net 
bag, and boU a quarter of an hour to the pound in hot salted water. When done, 
unwrap with care, and lay upon a hot dish, taking care not to break It. Have 
ready a large cupful of drawn butter, very rich, in which "has been stirred a 
tablespoonf ul of minced parsley and the juice of a lemon. Pour half upon the 
salmon, and serve the rest in a boat. Garnish with paisley and sliced ogga. 



44 i'fSH. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Cut slices from an inch to an inch and a half thick, dry them in a doth, season 
■with salt and pepper, dredge them in sifted flour, and broil on a gridiron rubbed 
with suet. 

Another jwotfo.— Cut the slices one inch thick, and season them with pepper 
and salt; butter ajsheet of white paper, lay each slice on a separate piece, envelope 
them in it with their ends twisted; broil gently over a clear Are, and serve with 
anchovy or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, add a few chopped 
herbs and a little spice. 

FRESH SALMON FRIED. 

Cut the slices three-quarters of an inch thick, dredge them with flour, or dip 
them in- egg and crumbs, — fry a light brown. ,This mode answers for all fish 
cut into steaks. Season weQ with salt and pepper. 

SALMON AND CAPER SAUCE. 

Two slices of salmon, one-quarter potmd butter, one-half teaspoonful of 
chopped pai'sley, one shalot; salt and pepper to taste. 

Lay the salmon in a baking-dish, place pieces of butter over it and 
add the other ingredients, rubbing a little of the seasoning into the fish; place it 
in the oven and baste it frequently; when done, take it out and drain for a 
minute or two; lay it in a dish, pour caper sauce over it, and serve.. Salmon 
dressed in this way, with tomato sauce, is very delicious. 

BROILED SALT SALMON OR OTHER SALT FISH. 

Soak salmon in tepid or cold water twenty-four hours, changing water sev- 
eral times, or let stand under faucet of running water. If in a hurry or desirbg 
a very salt relish, it may do to soak a short time, having water warm, and 
changing, parboiling slightly. At the hour wanted, broil sharply. Season to 
suit taste, covering with butter. This recipe will answer for all kinds of salt fish. 

PICKLED SALMON. 

Take a fine, fresh salmon, and having cleaned it, cut it into large piece% and 
\x& it in salted water as if for eating. Then drain it, wrap it in a dry doth, and 
set it'in a c<dd place till next i&j„ Then? make the pickle, which must be in 



proportion to the qoantity of fish. To one quart of the water in which the 
sahnon was boiled, allow two quarts of the best vinegar, one ounce of whole 
black pepper, one nutmeg grated and a dozen blades of mace. Boil all these 
together in a kettle closely covered to prevent the flavor from evaporating. 
When the vinegar thus prepared is quite cold, pour it over the salmon, and put 
on the top a tablespoonful of sweet oil, which will make it keep the longer. 

Cover it closely, put it in a dry, cool place, and.it wiU be good for many 
months. This is the nicest way of preserving sahnon, and is approved by aU 
who have tried it. 

SMOKED SALMON. 

Smoked salmon to be broiled should be put upon the gridiron first, with the 
fiesh side to the fire. ^ 

Smoked salmon is very nice when shaved like smoked beef, and served with 
coffee or tea. 

fri€asse£ salmon. 

This way of cooking fresh salmon is a pleasant change d:om the ordinary 
modes of cooking it: Cut one and one-half povmds of salmon into pieces one 
inch square; put the pieces in a stewpan with half a cupful of water, a Uttle 
salt, a little white pepper, one clove, one blade of mace, three pieces of sugar, 
one shalot and a heaping teaspoonf ul of mustard mixed smoothly with half a 
teacupful of vinegar.^ Let this boil up once and add six tomatoes peeled and 
! out into tiny pieces, a few sprigs of parsley finely minced, and one wineglasa- 
ful of shetry. Let all simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Serve 
very hot, and garnish with dry toast cut in triangular pieces. This dish is 
good, very cold, for luncheon or breakfast. 

SALMON PATTIES. 

Cut cold cooked salmon into dice. Heat about a pint of the dice in half a 
pint of cream. Season to taste with cayenne pepper and salt. FiU the shells 
emd serve. Cold cooked fish of any kind may be made into patties in this way. 
Use any fish sauce you choose— all are equally good. 

FISH AND -OYSTER PIE. 

Any remains of cold fish, such as cod or haddock, 2 dozen oysters, pepper and 
salt to taste, bread-crumbs sufScient for the quantity of fish; \ teaspoonful <A 
grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 



4S FISS. 

Clear the fish from the bones, and put a layer of it in a pie-dish, which 
sprinkle with pepper and salt; then a layer of bread-crumbs, oysters, nutineg^ 
and chopped parsley. Bepeat this tiU the dish is quite f ulL You may form a 
covering either of iSread -crumbs, which should be browned, or puff-paste, which 
should be cut off into long strips, and laid in cross-bars over the fish, with a line 
of the paste first laid round the edge. Before putting on the top, pour in some 
made melted butter, or a Uttle thin white sauce, and the oyster-Uquor, and bake. 

Time. — If of cooked fish, 1 hour; if made of fresh fish and puff-paste, | hour. 

STEAMED FISH. 

Secure the tail of the fish in its mouth, the body in a drcle; pour over it 
half a pint of vinegar, seasoned with pepper and salt; let it stand an hour in a 
cool place? pour off the vinegar, and put it in a steamer over boiling water, and 
steam twenty minutes, or longer for large fish. When the meat easfly separates 
from the bone it is done. Drain well, and serve on a, very clean white napldn, 
neatly folded and placed on the platter; decorate the napkin around the fish with 
sprigs of curled parsley, or with fanciful beet cuttings, or alternately with 
both.. 

TO BROIL A SHAD. 

Split and wash the shad, and afterwards drj it in a cloth. Season it with 
,ealt and pepper. 5ave ready a bed of clear, bright coals. Grease your gridiron 
well, and as soon as it is hot, lay the shad upon it, the flesh side down; cover 
with a dripping-pan and broil it for about a quarter of an hoiu:, or more, accord- 
big to the thickness. Butter it well, and send it to the table. Covering it while 
l)roiIing gives it a more delicious flavor. 

BAKED SHAD. 

Many people are of the opinion that the very best method of cooking a shad 
is to bake it. Stuff it with bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, butter and parsley, and 
mix this up with the beaten yoUt of egg; fill the fish vrith It, and sew it up or 
fasten a string around it. Pour over it a little water and some butter, and bake 
as you would a fowl. A shad will require from an hour to an hoxn* and a 
quarter to bake. Garnish with shoes of lemon, water cresses, etc. 

Dressing for Baked SAad.— Boil up the gravy in which the shad was baked, 
put in a large tablespoonf ul of catsup, a tablespoonful of brown flour which 
has been wet with cold water, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry or 
Madeira wine. Serve in a sauce boat. 



nSM, 47 

TO COOK A SHAD ROB. 

Drop into boiling water, and cook gently for twenty minutes; then take from 
the fire, and drain. Butter a tin plate, aaiJaj the drained roe upon it. Dredge 
well with salt and pepper, and spread soft butter over it; then dredge thickly 
with flour. Cook in the oven for half an hour, basting frequently with salt, 
pepper, flour, butter and water. 

TO COOK SHAD ROE, (Another Way.) 

Jlrst partly boH them in a small covered pan, take out and season them with 
salt, a little pepper, dredge with flour and fry as any fish. 

BOILED BASS. 

After thoronghly cleaning it place in a saucepan with enough water to cover it 
add two tablespoonfals of salt; set the saucepan oVer the. fire, and when it has boiled 
about five minutes try to pull out one of the fins; if it loosens easily from the bod) 
oar^ully take the fish out of the water, lay it on a platter, surround it with half ( 
dozen hard-boiled eggs, and serve it with a sauce. 

BOILED BLUEFISH. 
Boiled the same as Bass. 

BAKED BLUEFISH. 
Baked the same as Baked Shad— see page 46. 

FRIED EELS. 

After deaning the eels weD, cut them in pieces two inches long; wash them 
and wipe them dry; roll them in wheat flovir or rolled cracker, and fry as di- 
rected for other fish, in hot Jard or beef dripping, salted. They should be 
browned all over and thoro»ghly-donet 

Eels are-^metimes dipped in batter and then fried, or into egg and bread 
croiubs. Serve with crisped parsley. 

SHEEPSHEAD WITH DRAWN BUTTER. 

Select a medium-sized fish, dean it thoroughly, and rub a little salt over it; 
wrap it in a cloth and put it in a steamer; place this over a pot of fast-boiling 
yniet and steam one hour; then lay it whde upon a hot side-dish, garnish with 



48 F/SM^ 

tofts of parsley and slices of lemon, and serve with drawn butter, prepared as 
followsi Take two ounces of butter and roll it into sjnall balls, dredge these 
with flour; put one-fourth of them in a sauce-pan, and as they begin to melt, 
whisk them; add the remainder, one at a time, until thoroughly smooth; while 
stirring, add a-tablespoonful of lemon juice, half a tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley; poTir into a hot sauce boat, and serve. 



BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Thoroaghly clean the fish; cut off the head or not, as preferred; cut out the 
backbone from the head to within two inches of the tail, and stuif with the-fol- 
lowing: Soak stale bread in water, squeeae dry; cut in pieces a large onion, fry 
in butter, chop fine; addihe bread, two ounces of butter, salt, pepper and a Ut- 
tie parsley or sage; heat through, and when taken ofE the fire, add the yolks of 
two well-beaten eggs; stuff the fish rather full, sew up with fine twine, and 
wrap with several coils of white tape. Eub the fish over slightly with butter; 
just cover the bottom of a baking pan with hot water, and place the fish in it, 
standing back upward, and bent in the form of an S. Serve with the following 
dressing: Keduce the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste with two 
tablespoonfuls good dalad oU; stir in half a teaspoon English mustard, and add 
pepper and vinegar to taste. 

HALIBUT BOILED. 

The cut next to the tafl-piece is the best to boiL Eub a little salt over it, 
Boak it for fifteen minutes in vinegar and cold water, then wash it and scrape. 
it until quite clean; tie it in a cloth, and boil slowly over a moderate fire, allow- 
ing seven minutes boiling to each pound of fish; when it is half cooked, turn \\ 
over in the pot; serve with drawn butter or egg sauce. 

Boiled hahbut mmced with boiled potatoes, and a little butter and mUk, makes 
an excellent breakfast dish. 

STEAMED HALIBUT. 

Sdect a three-pound piece of white hahbut, cover it with a cloth and place it 
In a steamer; set the steamer over a pot of fast-boiling water and steam two 
hours: nlace if on a hot dish surrounded with a border of parsley, and serve with 
egg-eauce. 



FRIED HALIBUT.' Ko. x; 

Select choice, flrm slices from this large and delicate-looMng fish, and, after 
carefully washing and drying with a soft towel, with a sharp knife take off tha 
skin. Beat up two eggs, and roll out some brittle crackers upon the kneading 
board until they are as fine as dust. Dip each slice into the beaten e^, then 
into the cracker crumbs, (after you have salted and peppered the fish), and place 
them in a hot frying-pan half full of boiling lard, in which a Ettle batter has 
been added to make the Qsh brown nicely: turn and brown both ades, remeva 
from the frying-pan and dlcaixL Serve hot. 

FRIED HALIBUT. No. a. 

First fry a few thin sUces of salt pork until brown in an iron frying-panj 
then take it up on a hot platter, and keep it warm imtil the halibut is fried. 
After washing and drying two pounds of sliced halibut, sprinkle it with salt and 
pepper, dredge it well with flour, put it into the hot pork-drippings and, fry 
brown on both sides; then serve the pork with the fish. 

Halibut broiled in slices is a very good way of cooking it, broiled the same as 
Spanish mackerel 

BAKED HALIBUT. 
Take a nice piece of halibut weighing five or six pounds, and lay it in salt 
water for two hours. Wipe it dry and score the outer skin. Set it in a drip- 
ping-pan in a moderate hot oven, and bake an hour, basting often with butter 
and water heated together in a sauce-pan or tin cup. When a fork will pene- 
trate it easily, it is done. It should be a fine, brown color. Take the gravy in 
the dripping-pan, add a little boiling water should there not be enough, stir in 
a tablespoonful of walnut catsup, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, the 
juice of a lemon, and thicken with brown flour, previously wet with cold water. 
Boil up once and put in a sauce boat. 

HALIBUT BROILED. 

BroU the same as other fish, upon a buttered gridiron, over a dear fire, fiiat 
seasoning with salt and pepper, placed on a hot di^ when done, buttered weQ 
and cover closely. 

FRIED BROOK TROUT. 
These delicate fish are usually fried, and form a delightful br&ikfa£t or snp> 
per dish. Oleai wash and dry the fish, split them to the too, salt and pepper 



so p/sff. 

them, and flour them nicely. If you use lard instead of the,«a$ of fried salt 
pork, put in a piece of butter to prevent their sticking, and which causes them 
to brown nicely. Let the fat be hot, fry quickly to a delicate brown. They 
should be sufficiently browned on one side before turning on the other side. 
They are nice served with slices of fried, pork, fried crisp. Lay them side by 
Bide on a heated platter, garnish and send hot to the table. They are often 
cooked and served with their heads on. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

Fried with their heads on the same as brook trout. Many think that they 
make a- much better appearance as a dish when cooked whole with the heads 
on, and nicely garnished for the table. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Taken from Mrs. A. W. Ferry's Cook Book, Mackinac, 1824, The most deli- 
oate mode of coofckig white fish. Prepare the fish as for broiUng, laying it open; 
put it into a dripping-pan with the back down; nearly cover vnth water; to one 
fish two tablespoonfuls of salt; cover tightly and simmer (not boil) one-half 
hour. Dress with gravy, a little butter aad pepper, ahd garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. (Bordeaux Sauce.) 

Clean and stuff the fish. Put it in a baking-pan and add a liberal quantity 
of butter, previously rolled in flour, to the fish. Put in the pan half a pint 
of claret and bLke for an hour and a quarter. Eemove the fish and strain 
the gravy; add to the latter a gill more of claret, a teaspoonful of brown flour 
and a pinch of cayenne, and serve with the fish. 

— Plankington Home, Miiaaukee. 

BAKED SALMON TROUT. 

This deUciously flavored game-fish is baked precisely as shad or white fish, 
but should be accompanied with cream gravy to make it perfect. It should be 
baked slowly, basting often with butter and water. When done, have ready in 
a sauce-pan a cup of cream, diluted with a few spoonfuls of hot water, for fear 
it might clot in heating, in which have been stirred cautiously two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, a sCant tablespoonful of flour, and a Uttle chopped parsley. 
Beat this in a vessel set vnthin another of boiling water, add the gravy from the 



Fisrr. s« 

dripping-pan, boil up once to thicken, and when the trout is laid on a suitable 
hot dish, pour this sauce around it. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

This same fish boiled, served with the same cream gravy, (with the exception 
of the fish gravy,) is the proper way to cook it. 



TO BAKE SMELTS. 

Wash and dry them thoroughly in a cloth, and arrange them nicely in a flat 
baking-dish; the pan should be buttered, also the fish; season with salt and pep- 
per, and cover with bread or cracker-crumbs. Place a piece of butter over each. 
Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes. Oamish with fried [.aisley and cut lemon. 

BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL. 

Split the fish down the back, take out the back bone, wash it in cold water, 
dry it with a clean dry cloth, sprinkle it lightly with salt and lay it on a but- 
tered gridiron, over a clear fire, with the flesh side downward, until it begins to 
brown; then turn the other side. Have ready a mixture of two tablespoonfuls 
of butter melted, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of salt, some pep- 
per. Dish up the fish hot from the gridiron on a hot dish, turn over the mix- 
ture and serve it while hot. 

Broiled Spanish mackerel is excellent with other fish sauces. Boiled Spanish 
mackerel is also very fine with most of the fish sauces, more especially " Matte 
d'Hotel Sauce." 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. 

Wash and dean off all the brine and salt; put it to soak with the meat side 
down, in cold water over night; in the morning rinse it in one or two waters. 
Wrap each up in a cloth and put it into a kettle with conaderable water, which 
should be cold; cook about thirty minutes. Take it carefuUy from the cloth, 
take out the back bones and pour over a little melted butter and cream; add a 
light sprinkle of pepper. Or make a cream sauce like the following: 

Heat a small cup of milk to scalding. Stir into it a teaspoonful of com- starch 
wet up with a little water. When this thickens, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, to taste. Beat an egg light, poiu: the sauce 
gradually over it, put the mixtiu"e again over the fire, and stir one minute, not 
more. Pour upon the fish, and serve it with some slices of lemon, or a few 
sprigs 'Of parsley or water-cresses, on the dish as a garnish. 



BAKED SALT MACKEREI,. 

When the mackerel have soaked over night, put them in a pan and pour on 
boiling water enough to cover. Let them stand a couple of minutes, then drain 
them off, and put them in the pan with a few lumps of butter; pour on a half 
teacupful of sweet cream, or rich milk, and a little pepper; set in the oven and 
let it bake a little until brown. 

FRIED SALT MACKEREL. 

Select as many salt mackerel as required; wash and cleanse them well, then 
put them to soak aU day in mid water, changing them every two hours; then 
put them into fresh water just before retiring. In the morning drain off the 
water, wipe them dry, roll them in flour, and fry in a little butter on a hot thick- 
bottom frying-pan. Serve with a little melted butter poured over, and garnish 
with a little parsley. 

BOILED FRESH MACKEREL. 

Fresh mackerel are cooked in water salted, and a httle vinegar added; with 
this exception they can be served in the same way as the salt mackerel 
Broiled ones are very nice with the same cream sauce, or you can substitute egg 
sauce. 

POTTED FRESH FISH. 

After the fish has laid in salt water six houiS, take it out, and to every six 
pounds of fish take one-quarter cupful each of salt, black pepper and cinnamon, 
one eighth cupful of allspice, and one teaspoonful of cloves. 

Cut the fish in pieces and put into a half gallon stone baking-jar, first a layer 
of fish, then the spices, flour, and then spread a thin layer of butter on, and con- 
tinue so until the dish is full. Fill the jar with equal parts of vinegar and water, 
cover with tightly fitting lid, so that the steam cannot escape; bake five hours, 
remove from the oven, and when it is cold, it is to be cut in slices and served. 
This is a tea or lunch disL 

SCALLOPED CRABS. 

Put the ciabs into a kettle of boiling water, and throw in a handful of salt. 
Boil from twenty minutes to half an hour. Take them from the water when 
done and pick out all the meat; be careful not to break the sheU. T» a pint of 
meat put a little salt and pepper; taste, and M not enough add more, a little at » 



FISJt. 5J 

time, till suited. Grate in a very little nutmeg, and add one spoonful of cracker or 
bread-crumbs, two eggs well beaten, and two tablespoonfuls of butter (even full): 
stir all wdl together; wash the shells clean, and fill each shell full of the mix- 
ture; sprinkle crumbs over the top and moisten with the Uquor; set in the oven 
till of a nice brown; a few minutes will do it. Send to the table hot, arranged 
on large dishes. They are eaten at breakfast or supper. 

FISH IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Flake up cold boiled halibut and set the plate into the steamer, that the fish 
may heat without drying. Boil the bones and skin of the fisl) with a sUce of 
onion and a very small piece of red pepper; a bit of this the size of a, kernel of 
coffee will make the sauce quite as hot as most persons like it. Boil this stock 
down to half a pint; thicken with one teaspoonful of butter and one teaspoonful 
of flour, mixed together. Add one drop of extract of almond. Pour this sauce 
over your halibut and stick bits of parsley over it.^ 

FRESH STURGEON STEAK MARINADE. 

Take one slice of sturgeon two inches thick; let it stand in hot water five 
minutes; drain; put it in a bowl and add a gill of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper, and the 
juice of half a lemon; let it stand six hours, turning it occasionally; drain and 
dry on a napkin; dip it in egg; roll in bread-crumbs, and fry, or rather boil, in 
very hot fat. Beat up the yolks of two raw eggs, add a teaspoonful of French 
mustard, and, by degrees, half of the marinade, to make a smooth sauce, which 
serve with the fish. 

POTTED FISH 

Take out the backbone of the fish; for one weighing two poimds take a table- 
spoonful of allspice and cloves mixed; these spices should be put into little bags 
of not too thick muslin; put sufficient salt directly upon each fish; then roll in 
a cloth, over which sprinkle a Uttle cayenne pepper; put alternate layers of fish, 
spice and sage in an earthem jar; cover with the best cider vinegar; cover the 
jar closely with a plate, and over this put a covering of dough, rolled out to 
twice the thickness of pie crust. Make the edges of paste, to adhere closely to 
the sides of the jar, so as to make it air-tight. Put the jar into a pot of cold 
water and let it boil from three to nve hours, according to quantity. Eeady 
when Cold^ 



54 Fistr. 

MAYONNAISE FISH. 

Take a pound or so of cold boiled fish (halibut, rock, or cod), not chop, but 
cut, into pieces an inch in length. Mix in a bowl a dressing as follows: The 
yolk of four boiled eggs rubbed to a smooth paste with salad oil or butter; add 
to these salt, pepper, mustard, two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, and, lastly, 
six tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Beat the mixture imtil light, and just before 
pouring it over the fish, stir in lightly the frothed white of a raw egg. Serve 
the fish in a glass dish, with half the dressing stirred in with it. Spread the 
remainder over the top, and lay lettuce leaves (from the core of the head of let- 
tuce) around the edges, to be eaten with it. 

FISH CHOWDER. (Rhode Island.) 

Fry five or six slices of fat pork crisp in the bottom of the pot you are to 
make your chowder in; take them out and chop them into small pieces, put them 
back into the bottom of the pot with their ovm gravy. ,(This is much better 
than having the slices whole.) 

Cut four pounds of fresh cod or sea-bass into pieces two inches square, and 
lay enough of these on the pork to cover it. Follow vdth a layer of chopped 
onions, a little parsley; slimmer savory and pepper, either black or cayenne. 
Then a layer of spUt Boston, or butter, or whole cream crackers, which have 
been soaked in warm water until moistened through, but not ready to break. 
Above this put a layer of pork, and repeat the order given above — onions, sea- 
soning, (not too much), crackers and pork, until yom* materials are exhausted. 
Let the topmost layer be buttered crackers well soaked. Pour in enough cold 
water to barely cover alL Cover the pot, stew gently for an hoiu", watching 
that the water does not sink too low. Should it leave the upper layer exposed, 
replenish cautiously from the boiling tea-kettle. When the chowder is thoroughly 
done, take out vnth a perforated skimmer and put into ar tureen. Thicken the 
gravy with a tablespoonful of flour and about the same quantity of butter; boil 
up and poiu- over the chowder. Serve sUced lemon, pickles and stewed toma- 
toes with it, that the guests may add if they Uke. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Take a pint bowl of codfish picked very fine, two pint bowls of whole raw 
peeled potatoes, sliced thickly; put them together in plenty of cold water and 
boil until the potatoes are thoroughly cooked; remove from the fire, and drain 
off ail the water. Mash them with the potato masher, add a piece of butter the 



FISS. 55 

size of an egg, one welibeaten egg, and three spoonfuls of cream or rich milk. 
Flour your hands and make into balls or cakes. Put an oimce each of butter 
and lard into a frying pan; when hot, put in the balls and fry a nice brown. Do 
not freshen the fish before boiling with the potatoes. Many cooks fry them in a 
quantity of lard similar to boiled doughnuts. 

STEWED CODFISH, (Salt.) 
Take a thick, white piece of salt codfish, lay it in cold water for a few min- 
utes to soften it a little, enough to render it more easily to be picked up. Shred 
it in very small bits, put it over the fire in a stew-pan with cold water; let it 
come to a boil, turn off this water carefully, and add a pint of milk to the fish, 
or more according to quantity. Set it over the fire again and let it boil slowly 
about three minutes, now add a good-sized pi^e-of butter, a shake of pepper 
and a thickening of a tablespoonf ul of flour in enough cold milk to make a cream. 
Stew five minutes longer, and just before serving stir in two well-beaten eggs. 
The eggs are an addition that could be dispensed with, however, as it is very 
good without them. An excellent breakfast dish. 

CODFISH A LA MODE. 
Pick up a teacupf ul of salt codfish very fine, and freshen— the dessicated is 
nice to use; two cups mashed potatoes, one pint cream or milk, two well-beaten 
eggs, half a cup butter, salt and pepper; mix; bake in an earthen baking dish 
from twenty to twenty-five minutes; serve in the same dish, placed on a small 
platter, covered with a fine napkin. 

BqiLED FRESH COD. 

Sew up the piece of fish in thin cloth, fitted to shape; boil in salted water 
(boiling from the first), allowing about fifteen minutes to the pound. Carefully 
unwrap, and pour over it warm oyster sauce. A whole one boiled the same. 

— HoUl Brighton. 

SCALLOPED FISH. 
, Pick any cold fresh fish, or salt codfish, left from the dinner, mto fine bits, 
carefully removing all the bones. 

Take a pint of milk in a suitable dish, and place it in a sauce pan- of boiling 
water; put into it a few slices of onion, cut very fine, a sprig of parsley minced 
fine, add a piece of butter as large as an egg, a pinch of salt, a sprinkle of white 
pepper, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, or flour, rubbed in a little 
cold milk; let all boil up and remove from the fire. Take a dish you wish to 



S6 

serve it in, butter the sides and bottom. Put first a layer of the minced fish, 
then a layer of the cream, then sprinkle over that some cracker or bread-crumbs, 
then a layer of fish again, and so on, until the dish is full; spread cracker or 
bread-crumbs last on the top, to prevent the milk from scorching. 

This is a very good way to use up ccM fish, making a nice breakfast ^sk, or 
a side-dish for dinner. 

FISH FRITTERS. 
Take a piece of salt codfish, pick it up veiy fine, put it into a sauce-pan, with 
plenty of cold water; bring it to a boil, turn off the water, and add another of 
cold water; let this boil with the fish about fifteen minutes, very slowly; strain 
oQ tMs water, Tn qT"'"g the fish quite dry, and set aside to cooL In the meantime, 
stir up a batter of a pint of milk, four eggs, a pinch of salt, one large" teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder in fiour, enough to make thicker than batter cakes. Stir 
in the fish and fry like any fritters. Very fine accompanimeot to a good break" 
fast. 

BOILED SALT CODFISH. (New England Style). 
Cut the fish into square pieces, cover with cold water, set on the back part of 
the stove; when hot, pour off water and cover again with cold water; let it 
stand about four hours and simmer, not boil; put the fish on a platter, then 
cover with a drawn-butter gravy, and serve. Many cooks prefer soaking the 
fish over night. 

BOILED CODFISH AND OYSTER SAUCE. 

Lay the fish in cold salted water half an hoar before it is time to cook it, thai 
toll it in a dean doth dredged with flour; sew u^ the edges in such a manner 
as to envdope the fish entirely, yet have but one thickness of cloth over any 
part. Put the fish into boiling water, slightly salted; add a few whole doves 
and peppers and a bit of lemon peel; pull gently on the .fins, and when they come 
out easily the fish is done. Arrange neatly on a folded napkin, garnish and 
serve with oyster sauce. Take six oysters to every pound of fish and scald 
(blanch) them in a half-pint of hot oyster liquor; take out the oysters and add to 
the liquor, salt, pepper, a bit of mace and an ounce of butter; whip into it a gill 
of milk containing half of a teaspoonful of flour. Simmer a moment; add 
the oysters, and send to table in a sauce-boat. Egg sauce is good with this fish. 

BAKED CODFISH. 
If salt fish, soak, boil and pick the fish, the same as for fish-balls. Add an 
equal quantity of mashed potatoes, or cold, boOed, diopped potatoes, a large 



'SUELL^FISH. f57j 



piece of butter, and waxm odilk enough to make it quite. BOtt. Put it into a but 
tered dish, rub butter over the top, shake over a little, sifted flour, and bake about 
thirty minutes, and until a rich broi^n^'^Make, iTsauce of drawn butter, with 
two hard-boiled eg^ sliced, served in a gravy-bwit. 

CODFISH STEAK. (New England Style.) 

Select a medium-sized fresh codfish, cut it in steaks cross-wise of the fish, 
about an inch and a half thick; sprinkle ^ little salt over tbemTand let them 
stand two' hours. '^ Cut into dice a poimd of salt fat pork, fry out all the fat 
from them and remove the crisp bits of pork; put the codfish steaks In a pan of 
corn meal, dredge them with it, and when the pork fat k smoking hot, fry the 
steaks in it to a dark-brown color on both sid^^ Squeeze" over them a little 
lemon juice, add a dash of freshly ground pepper, add serve^th hot, old-fash-^ 
ioned, well-buttered Johnny Cake. 

- SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One pound of cooked salmon (a,bput one and a ha^ pints when chopped), 
one cup of cream, two ^blespodnfuls of btitt^7oQe tablespoonful of flour, three 
eg^, onepintofchimbsrpepper and salt; chop* the sahnon flue, inix the flour ' 
and butter together, let the cream come to a boil, an^stir in the flour and butter, , 
salmon and seasoning; boil on& minute; stir in one well-beat^^'egg, and remove 
from the fire; when cold make into croquettes; dip in beaten eg^ roll in crumbs 
and fry.^ Canned salmon can be used. 



STEWED WATER TURTLES, OR TERRAPINS. 

Select the largest, thickest and fattest, the females being the best; they diould 
be alive when brought from inarketc^ t Wash and put th^ alive into boiling 
water,'add a little salt, and boil them until thoroughly donej or from ten to fif- 
teen minutes, after which take off the shell, extract the meat, £nd remove care- 
fully the saiid-bag^d gall; also all the entiMls; theyare^unfitto.eat, and are 
no longer^u^ed in cooking terrapins for the best tables. ■ Cut tlje meat into 
''picc^rAQ^ put it into a stew-pan with its eggs, and sufficient fresh butter to 
.irtew it welL J^Let it stew„till quite. hot. throughout, keeping the pan carefully 



S8 SHELL-FISH. 

covered, that none of the flavor may escape, but shake it over the fire white 
stewing. In auother pan make a sauce of beaten yolk of egg, highly flavored 
with Madeira or sherry, and powdered nutmeg and mace, a gill of current jelly, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste, enriched with a large lump of fresh 
butter. Stir this sauce well over the fire, and when it has sdmost come to a boil, 
take it off. Send the terrapins to the table hot in a covered dish, and the sauce 
separately in a sauce-tureen, to be used by those who like it, and omitted by 
those who prefer the genuine flavor of the terrapins when simply stewed with 
butter. This is now the usual mode of dressing terrapins in Maryland, Virginia, 
and many other parts of the South, and will be found superior to any other. If 
there are no eggs in the terrapin, "egg balls" may be substituted. (See recipe). 

STEWED TERRAPIN, WITH CREAM. 

Place in a sauce-pan, two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter and one of diy 
flour; stir it over the fire imtil it bubbles; then gradually stir in a pint of cream, 
a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of white pepper, the same of 
grated nutmeg, and a very small pinch of cayenne. Next, put in a pint of ter- 
rapin .meat and stir all until it is scalding hot. Move the sauce-pan to the back 
part of the stove or range, where the contents vnll keep hot but not boil; then 
stir in four well-beaten yolks of eggs; do not allow the terrapin to boil after add- 
ing the eggs, but pour it immediately into a tureen containing a gill of good 
"iLadeira and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve hot. 

STEWED TERRAPIN. 
Plimge the terrapins alive into boiling water, and let them remain until the 
sides and lower shell begin to crack— this will take less than an hour; then re- 
move them and let them get cold; take off the shell and outer skin, being care- 
ful to save all the blood possible in opening them. If there are eggs in them put 
them aside in a dish; take all the inside out, and be very careful not to break 
the gall, which must be immediately removed or it will make the rest bitter. 
It lies within the liver. Then cut up the hver and all the rest of the terrapin 
into small pieces,' adding the blood and juice that have flowed out in cutting up; 
add half a pint of water; sprinkle a httle flour over them as you place them in 
the stew-pan; let them stew slowly ten minutes, adding salt, black and cayenne 
pepper, and a very small blade of mace; then add a gill of the best brandy and 
half a pint of the very best sherry wine; let it simmer over a slow fire very 
gently. About ten minutes or so before you are ready to dish them, add half a 
pint of rich cream and half a pound of sweet butter, with flour, to prevent boil- 



SHEU^mSH 59 

Jig; two or three minutes before taking them off the fire, peel the eggs caxefullj 

and throw them in whole. If there should be no eggs use the yolk of hens' eggs, 

hard boiled. This receipt is for four terrapins. 

—Rennerfa Hotel, BaUvmort. 

BOILED LOBSTER. 

Put a handful of salt into a large kettle or pot of boiling water. When the 
water boils very hard, put in the lobster, having first brushed it, and tied the 
"daws together with a bit of twine. Keep it boiling from 20 minutes to half an hour 
in proportion to its size. If boiled too long the meat wiU be hard and stiingy. 
When it is done take' it out, lay it on its claws to drain, and then wipe it dry. 

It is scarcely necessary to mention that the head of a lobster, and what are 
called the lady-fingers, are not to be eaten. 

Very large lobsters are not the best, the meat being coarse and tough. The 
male is best for boiling; the fiesh is firmer, and the shell a brighter red; it may 
readily be distinguished from the female; the tail is narrower, and the two up* 
per-most fins within the tail are stiff and hard. Those of the hen lobster are 
not so, and the tail is broader. 

Hen lobsters are preferred for sauce or salad, on account of their coral. The 
head and small claws are never used. 

They should be afire and freshly caught when put into the boiling kettle. 
After being cooked and cooled, split open the body and tail, and crack the claws, 
to extract the meat. The sand pouch found near the throat should be removed. 
Care should be exercised that none of the feathery, tough, gill-like 'particles 
found imder the body shell get mixed with the meat, as they are indigestible, 
and have caused mUch trouble. They are supposed to be the cause of so-called 
poisoning from^atiug lobster. 

Serve on a platter. Lettuce, and other concomitants of a salad, should also be 
placed on the table or platter. 

SCALLOPED LOBSTER. , 

Butter a deep dish, and cover the bottom with fine bread-crumbs; put on this 
alayerof chopped lobster, with pepper and salt; so on alternately until the dish is 
filled, having crumbs on top. Put on bits of butter, moisten with milk, and 
bake about twenty minutes. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Take out all the meat from a boiled lobster, reserving the coral; season highly 
with mustard, cayenne, salt and some kind of tablo sauce; stew until well mixed. 



6o SHELL-FISH. 

and pul it in a covered sauce-pan, with just enough hot water to keep from 
burning; rub the coral smooth, moistening with vinegar until it is thin enough 
to pour easily, then stir it into the sauce-pan. The dressing should be prepared 
oefore the meat is put on the fire, and which ought to boil but once before the 
coral is put in; stir in a heaping teaspoonf ul of butter, and when it boils again it 
is done, and should be taken up at once, as too much" cooking toughens the 
aneal 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Take any of the lobster remaining from table, and pound it imtil the dark, 
light meat and coral are well mixed; put with it not quite as much fine bread- 
crumbs; season with pepper, salt and a very little cayenne pepper; add a httle 
melted butter, about two tablespoonfuls if the bread is rather dry; form into 
egg-shaped or round balls; roll them in egg, then in fine crumbs, and fry in boil • 
inglaxd. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. 

Cut some boiled lobster in small pieces; then take the small claws and the 
spawn, put them in a suitable dish, and jam them to a paste with a potato 
masher. Now add to them a ladlef ul of gravy or both, with a few bread-crumbs 
set it over the fire and boU; strain it through a strainer, or sieve, to the thicku'Siss 
of a cream, and put half of it to your lobsters, and save the other half to sauce 
them with after they are baked. Put to the lobster the bigness of an egg of 
butter, a little pepper and salt; squeeze in a lemon, and 'warm these over the fire 
enough to melt the butter, set it to cool, and sheet yom- patty-pan or a plate oi 
dish with good puff paste; then put in your lobster, and cover it with a paste; 
bake it within three-quarters of an hour before you want it; when it is baked, 
cut up yoin: cover, and warm up the other half of your sauce above mentioned, 
with a Uttle butter, to the thickness of cream, and pour it over yom* patty, ■with 
a little squeezed lemon; cut your cover in two, and lay it on the top, two inches 
distant, so that what is under may be seen. You may bake crawfish, shrimps 
or prawns the same wav: and they are aU proper for plates or little dishes for a 
second course. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBTTBO. 

Take one whole lobster, cut up in pieces about as largeas a hickorynut. Put in 
the same pau with a piece of butter size of a walnut, season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and tbickea with heavy cream sauce; add the yolk of one egg and two oz. 
-jf sherrj win®, 



Cream Sauce for above is made as foDows: 1 oz. butter, melted in sauce pan, 
'2 oi. flour, mixed \ritli butter; thin down to proper consistencj with boiling 
cream. 

—Hector's Oyster House, Chicago^ 

BAKED CRABS. 

Mis with the contents of a can of crabs, bread-crumbs or pounded cxackers. 
F^per and salt the whole to taste; mince some cold ham; have the baking-pan 
well buttered, place therein first a layer of the crab meat, prepared as above, 
then a layer of the minced ham, and so on, alternating until the pan id filled. 
Cover the top with biead-crumbs and bits of butter, and bake. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Half a dozen fresh crabs, boiled and minced," two ounces of butter, .one small 
teaspoonful of luustard powder; cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Put the 
meat into a bowl and mix carefully with it an equal quantity of fine bread- 
crumbs. Work the butter to a light cream, mix the> mustard well with it, then 
stir in very carefully, a handful at a time, the mixed ciabs,.a tablespoonfol of 
cream, and crumbs. Season to taste with cayenne pepper and salt: fiU the crab 
shells with the Tnixture, sprinkle bread-crumbs over' the tops, put three BmaU 
pieces of butter upon the top of each, and brown them quickly in a hot oven, 
lliey- will puff in baking and will be found Very nice. Half the quantity can be 
made A ciab-shell will hold the meat of two crabs. 

CRAB CROQUETTES. 

Pick the meat of boiled crabs and chop it fine. Season to taste with pepper, 
salt and melted butter. Moisten it well with rich milk or cream, then stiffen it 
slightly with bread or cracker-crumbs. Add two or three well-beaten e^s to 
bind .the naixture. Form the croquettes, egg and bread-crumb them and ..fiy 
them delicately in boiling lard. It is better to use a- wire frying-basket fbr cro- 
quettes of all kinds. 

TO MAKE A CRAB PIE. 

Procure the crabs alive, and put them in boiling water, along with some salt. 
Boil them for a quarter of an horn: or twenty minutes, according to tiie size. 
When cold, pick the meat from the claws and body. Chop all together, and 
mix it with crumbs of bread, pepper and salt, and a little butter. Put all this 
into the shell, and brown in a hot oven. A crab-shell will hold the meat of two 
cnbc 



6e stisJ^-Ffsir, 

CRABS. (Soft Shell.) 

Grabs may be boiled as lobsters. They make a fine dish when stewed. Take 
oat the meat from the shell, put it into a sauce-pan with butter, pepper, salt, a 
pinch of mace, and a very little water; dredge with flour, and let simmer five 
minutes over a slow fire. Serve hot; garnish the dish with the claws laid 
around it. 

The usual way of cooking them is frying them in plenty of butter and lard 
mixed; prepare them the same as frying fish. The spongy substance from the 
sides should be taken off, also the sand bag. Fry a nice brown, and gaiinish 
with parsley. 

OYSTERS. 

Oysters must be firesh and fat to be good. They are in season from Septem- 
ber to May. 

The small ones, such as are sold by the quart, are good for pies, fritters, or 
stews; the largest of this sort are nice for frying or pickling for family use. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large oysters from their own liquor into a thickly folded napkin to dry 
them; then make hot an ounce each of butter and lard; in a thick-bottom fry- 
ing-pan. Season the oysters with pepper and salt, then dip each one into egg 
and cracker-crumbs rolled fine, until it will take up no more. Place them in the 
hot grease and fry them a deUrate brown, turning them on both sides by sliding . 

a broad-bladed knife under them. Serve them crisp and hot. 

— Boston Oyster House. 

Some prefer to roll oysters in corn-meal and others use flour, but they are 

much more crisp with egg and cracker-crumbs. 

OYSTERS FRIED IN BATTER. 

Ingredients.—^ pint of oysters, 2 eggs, \ pint of milk, sufficient flour to make 
the batter; pepper and salt to taste; when liked, a little nutmeg; hot lard. 

Scald the oysters in their own Uquor, beard them, and lay them on a cloth 
to drain thoroughly. Break the eggs into a basin, mix the flour with them, add 
the milk gradually, with nutmeg and seasoning, and put the oysters in a batter. 
Make some lard hot in a deep frying-pan; putj in the oysters, one at a time; when 
done, take them up with a sharp-pointed skewer, and dish them on a napkin. 
Fried oysters are frequently used for garnishing boiled fish, and then a few 
bread-crumbs should be added to the flour. 



SHELI^FISM. »J 

STEWED OYSTERS. (In MJlk or Cream.) 
Drain the liquot;,frQm two quarts of oystera; mix with it a wa^ teacupful 
of hot waterriadd a little'salt and petwjerl attd set it over the fire in a sauce-pjui. 
Let it boil up once, put in the oysters, let them come to a boil, and waen tney 
" ruffle " add two tablespoqnfulsof^butter.^The instant it is melted and well 
stirred in, put in a pint of boiling milk, and teke the satice-pan from the fire. 
Serve with oyster or cream crackers. X Serve while hot. 

If thickening is preferred,stir in a little flour or two tablespoonfuls of cracker- 
crumbs. 

PLAIN OYSTER STEW. 

Same as mUk or cream stew, using only oyster, liquor and water instead of 
milk or cream,' adding more butter after takingup. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

For oyster soup, see Soups. 

DRY OYSTER. STEW. 

Take six to twelve large oysters and cook them 'in half a pint of their own 

liquor; season with butter and white pepper; cook for.five imnutes, stirring con- 

stantly. Serve in hot soup-plates or bowls. 

^ L— Fulton Market, New York. 

BOSTON FRY. 

Prepare the oysters in egg batter and fine cracker meal; fry in butter over a 

slow fire for about ten nunutes; cover the hollow of a hot platter with tomato 

sauce; place the oysters in it,l>ut not covering; garnished with chopped parsley 

sprinkled over the oysters.) 

— Boston Oyster' House. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Dry a quart of oysters in a doth, dip eachin' melted butter well peppered; 
then in beaten egg, or not, then in bread or cracker-crumbs, also peppered. 
Broil on a wire broiler over liyejorals, three to five minutes.'! Dip over each a 
little melted butter. Serve hot.> 

ROAST OYSTERS IN THE SHELL. 

Select the large oiies, those usually termed " Saddle^ Bocks, '^fQrmerly known 
as a distinct variety, but which are now but the large oysters selected'trom any 
pedss^jraahjand wige^themyjuQdj^acejwith the upg et-Or^dee p ihell down, to 



04 SHELL-FISH. 

catch the juice, over or on live coals. When they open their shells, remove the 
shallow one, being careful to save all the juice in the other; place them, shells and 
all, on a hot platter, and send to table hot, to be seasoned by each person with 
butter and pepper to taste. If the oysters are fine, and they are just cooked 
enough and served all hot, this is, Tpar excellence, the style. 

OYSTER ROAST. No. 2. 

Put one qiiart of oysters in a basin with their own liquor and let them boil 
three or four minutes; season with a little salt, pepper and a heaping spoonful 
of butter. Serve on buttered toast. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Wash and drain a quart of cpunts or select oysters; put them in a shallow 
pan and place in a steamer over boiling water; cover and steam till they are 
idump, with the edges ruffled, but no longer. Place in a heated dish, with but- 
ter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

— BaUimore Style. 

STEAMED OYSTERS IN THE SHELL. 

Wash and place them in an air-tight vessel, laying them the upper shell 
downward, so that the liquor will not run out when they open.. Place this dish 
or vessel over a pot of boiling water where they will get the steam. Boil them 
rapidly until the shells open, about fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve at once 
while hot. seasoned with butter, salt and pepper. 

PAN OYSTERS. No* i. 

Cut tome stale bread in thin slices, taking off all the crust; roimd the slices 

to fit patty -pans, toast, butter, place them in the pans and. moisten with three or 

four teaspooufuls of oyster liquor; place on the toast a layer of oysters, sprinkle 

with pepper, and put a small piece of butter on top of each pan; place all the 

pans in a baking-pan, and place in the oven, covering tightly. They will cook 

in seven or eight minutes if the oven is hot; or, cook till the beards are ruffled; 

remove the cover, sprinkle lightly with salt, replace, and cook one minute 

longer. Serve in patty-pans. They are delicious. 

—New YorkSlt/le. 

PAN OYSTERS, No. 2. 

Lay in a thin pie-tin or dripping-pan half a pint of large oysters, or more if 
required; have the pan large enough so that each ojBtet will lie flat on the bot- 



SHELL-FISH 65 

torn; put in over them a little oyster liquor, but not enough to float; place them 

carefully in a hot oven and just heat them through thoroughly— dp not bake 

them— which will be in three to five minules, according to fire; take them up 

and place on toast; first moistened with the hot juice from the pan. Are a very 

good substitute for oystei's roasted in the shell, the slow cooking bringing out 

the flavor. 

—Frinch Restaurant, New Orleans, La. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Select plump, good-sized oysters; drain off the juice, and to a cup of this 
juice add a cup of milk, a little salt, four well-beaten eggs, and flour enough. to 
make batter like griddle-cakes. 

Envelop an oyster in a spoonful of this batter, (some cut them in halves or 
chop them fine,) then fry in butter and lard, mixed in a frying-pan the same as 
we fry eggs, turning to fry brown on both sides. Send to the table very hot. 

—Delmonico. • 

Most cooks fry oyster fritters the same as crullers, in a quantity 'of hot 
lard, but this is not always convenient; either way they are excellent. 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

line patty-pans with thin pastry, pressing it well to the tin. Put a piece 
of bread or a ball of paper in each. Cover them with paste and brush them over 
with the white of an egg. Cut an inch square of thin pastry, place oil the 
centre of each-, glaze this also with egg, and bake in a quick oven fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Remove the bread or paper when half cold. 

Scald as many oysters as you require (allowing two for each patty, three if 
small) in their own liquor. Cut each in four and strain the liquor. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and two of floiur into a thick sauce-pan; stir them 
together over the fire till the flour smells cooked, and then pour half a pint of 
oyster liquor and half a pint of milk into the'^ flour and butter. (If you have 
cream, use it instead of milk.) Stir till it is a thick, smooth sauce. Put the 
oysters into it and let them boil once. Beat the yolks of two eggs. Remove 
the oysters for one minute from the Are, then stir the eggs into them till the 
sauce looks like thick custard. 

Fill the patties with this oyster fricassee, taking care to make it hot by staad- 
ing in boiling water before dinner on the day required^ and to make tl» patty, 
eases hot before you fill fiiem. 



M SHELL-FISH. 

FULTON MARKET ROAST. 

It is still known in New York from the place at which it was and is still 
served. Take nine large oysters in the shell ; wash, dry and roast over a char- 
coal fire, CD a broiler. Two minutes after the shells open they will be done. 
Take them up quickly, saving the juice in a small, shallow, tin pan; keep hot 
imtil all are done; butter them and sprinkle with pepper. 

This is served for one person when calling for a roast of this kind. It is often 
poured over a shce of toast. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 
Have ready about a pint bowl of fine cracker-crumbs. Butter a deep eaitiien 
dish; put a layer of the cracker-crumbs on the bottom; wet this with some of 
the oyster liquor; next have a layer of oysters; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and lay small bits of butter upon them; then another layer of cracker-crumbs 
and oyster juice; then oysters, pepper, salt and butter, and so on, until the dish 
is full; the top layer to be cracker-crumbs. Beat up an egg in a cup of milk and 
turn Over alL Cover the dish and set it in the oven for thirty or forty-five miautes. 
When baked through, tmcover the top, set on the upper grate and brown. 

OYSTER POT-PIE. 

Scald a quart can of oysters in their own liquor; when it boils, skim out the 

oysters and set aside in a warm place. To the liquor add a pint of hot water; 

season well with salt and pepper, a generous piece of butter, thicken with flom' 

and cold milk. Have ready nice light biscuit dough, rolled twice as thick as 

pie-crust; cut out into inch squares, drop them into the boiling stew, cover closely, 

and cook forty minuses. When taken up, stir the oysters into the juice and 

serve aJl together in onis dish. A nice side entree. 

-'PrituKfa Bay, S.L 

BOSTON OYSTER PIE. 

Having buttered the inside of a deep pie-plate, line it with puff- paste, or 

common pie-crust, and prepare another sheet of paste for the hd; put a clean 

towel into the dish (folded so as to support the lid), set it into the oven and bake 

the paste well; when done, remove the Ud and take out the toweL While the 

paste is baking prepare the oysters. Having picked off carefully every bit of 

shell that may be found about them, drain off the liquor into a pan and put tiie 

oysters into a stew-pan with barely enough of the liquor to ke^ them from 

bunting; season them with pepper, salt and butter; add a little sweet cream 

or milk, and one or two crackers rolled fine; let the oysters simner, bat net 



SHELV-FISH. fn 

hoil, as that wiO shrivel them. ICeinove the upper crust of pastry and fill the 
dish with the oysters and gravy; replace the cover and serve hot. 

Some prefer baking the upper crust on a pie-plate, the same size as the pie, 
then slipping it off on top of the pie after th&same is filled with the oysters. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

Orate the com, while green and tender, with a coarse grater, into a deep 
ilish. To two ears of com, allow one egg; beat the whites and yolks separately, 
and add them to the com, with one tablespoonful of wheat Hour and one of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt and pepper to taste. Drop spoonfuls of this batter 
into a frying pan with hot butter and lard mixed, and fry a light brown on both 
sides. 

In taste, they have a singular resemblance to fried oysters. The com must 
be young. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Take a slice of raw ham, which has been pickled^ but not smoked, and soak 
m boiling water for half an hour; cut it in quite small pieces, and put in a sauce- 
pan with two-thirds of a pint of veal or chicken broth, well strained; the hquor 
from a quart of oysters, one small onion, minced fine, and a Uttle chopped 
parsley, sweet marjoram, and pepper; let them simmer for twenty minutes^ and 
then boil rapidly two or three minutes; skim well, and add one scant table- 
spoonfiil of corn-starch, mixed smoothly in one-third cup of milk; stir constantly, 
and when it boils add the oysters and one ounce of butter; after which, just let 
it come to a boil, and remove the oysters to a deep dish; beat one egg, and add 
to it gradually some of the hot broth, and, when cooked, stir it into the pan; 
season with salt, and pour the whole over the oysters. When placed upon the 
table, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. 

SMALL OYSTER PIES. 

For each pie take a tin plate half the size of an ordinary dinner plate; butter 
it, and cover the bottom with a puff paste, as for pies; lay on it five or six select 
oystors, or enough to cover the bottom; butter them and season with a little salt 
and plenty of pepper; spread over this an egg batter, and cover with a crust of 
the paste, making small openings in it vdth a fork. Bake in a hot oven fifteen 
to twenty uiinutes, or until the top is nicely l»x>wnedL 

—Bo^on Oyiler BottM, 



6« SHELL-FISH. 

STEWED CLAMS. 

Wash clean as many round clams as required; pile them in a large iron pot, 
with Jialf a cupful of hot water in the bottom, and put over the fire; as soon aa 
the shells open, take out the clams, cut off the hard, uneatable " fringe " from 
each, ■with strong, clean scissors, put them into a stew-pan with the broth from 
the pot, and boil slowly till they are quite tender; pepper well, and thicken the 
gravy with flour, stirred into melted butter. 

Or, you may get two dozen freshly opened very small clams. Boil a pint of 
milk, a dash of white pepper and a small pat of butter. Now add the clams. 
Let them come to a boil, and serve. Longer boiling will make the clams almost 
indigestible. 

ROAST CLAMS IN THE SHELL. 

Eoastinapanoverahot fire, orinahotoven, or, ata "Clam Bake,"on hot 

stones; when they open, empty the juice into a sauce-pan; add the clams with 

butter, pepper and a very Uttle salt. 

•^Ryt Beach. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Take fifty small or twenty-five large sand dams from their shells; if large, 
cut each in two, lay them on a thickly folded napkin; put a pint bowl of wheat 
flour into a basin, add to it three weU-beaten eggs, half a pint of sweet milk, 
and nearly as much of their own hquor; beat the batter untU it is smooth and 
perfectly free from hunps; then stir in the clams. Put plenty of lard or beef fat 
into a thick-bottomed frying-pan, let it become boDing hot; put in the batter by 
the spoonful; let them fry gently; when one side is a dehcate brown, turn the 
other. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

The materials needed are fifty round clams (quahogs), a large bowl of salt 
porl^ cut up fine, the same of onions, finely chopped, and the same (or more, if 
you desire,) of potatoes cut into eighths or sixteenths of original size; wash the 
dams very thoroughly, and put them in a pot with half a pint of water; when 
the shells are open they are done; then take them from the shells and chop fine, 
saving all the clam water for the chowder; fry out the pork very gently, and 
when the scraps are a good brown, take them out and put in the chopped 
onions to fry; they should be fried in a frying-pan, and the chowder-kettle be 
made very clean before they are put in it, or the chowder will bum. ^The 
chief secret in chowder-making is to fry the onions so dehcately that they wiQ 
be missing in the choMrder.) 



SHELL-f/SH. 69 

Add a quart of hot water to the onions; put in the clams, clam-water and 
pork scraps. After it boils, add the potatoes, and when they jire cooked, the 
chowder is finished. Just before it is taken up, thicken it with a cup of pow. 
dered crackers, and add a quart of fresh milk. If too rich, add more water. No 
seasoning is needed but good black pepper. 

With the addition of six sliced tomatoes, or half a can of the canned ones, 
this is the best recipe of this kind, and is served in many of our best restaurants. 

— New Bedford Redjpe, 

SCALLOPED CLAMS. 

Purchase a dozen large soft clams in the shell and three dozen opened clams. 
Ask the dealer to open the first dozen, care being used not to injure the shells, 
which are to Ue used in cooking the clams. Clean the shells well, and put two 
soft clams on each half shell; add to each a dash of wliite pepper, and half a 
teaspoonful of minced cdery. Cut a slice of fat bacon into the smallest dice, add 
four of these to each 'shell, strew over the top a thin layer of cracker-dust; place 
a piece of table butter on top, and bake in the oven until brown. They are 
delightful when properly prepared. 

SCALLOPS. 

K. bought in the shell boil them and take out the hearts, which is the only 
part used. Dip them in beaten egg, and fry in the same manner as oysteiB. 
Some prefer them stewed the same as oysteis. 

FROGS FRIED. 

Progs are usually fried, and are considered a great aelicacy. Only the hind- 
legs and qTiarters are used. Clean them well, season, and fry in egg batter, or 
dipped in beaten egg and fine cracker-crumbs, the same as oysters. 

FROGS STEWED. 

Wash and skin the quarters, parboil them about thi-ee minutes, drain them. 
Now, put into a stew-pan two ounces of butter. When it is melted, lay , in the 
frogs, and fry about two minutes, stirring them to prevent burning; shake over 
them a tablespoonful of sifted flour and stir it into them; add a sprig of parsley, 
a pinch of powdered summer savory, a bay leaf, three' slices of onion, salt and 
pepper, a cup of hot water and one of cream. Boil gently until done; remove 
the legs, strain and mix into the gravy the yolks of two eggs, well beaten to 
cream; put the 1^3 in a suitable dish, pour over the gravy and serv 



In choosing poultry, select those that are fresh and fat, and the surest way 
to determine whether they are young, is to try the skin under the leg or wing. 
If it is easily broken, it is young; or, turn the wing backwards, if the joint yields 
readily, it is tender. 'WTien poultry is yoimg the skin is thin and tender, the 
legs smooth, the feet moist and limber, and the eyes full and bright. The body 
should be thick and the breast fat. Old turkeys have long hairs, and the flesh 
is purplish where it shows under the skin on the legs and back. About March 
they deteriorate in quality. 

Young ducks and geese are plump, with light, serai -transparent fat, soft 
Dreast-bone, tender flesh, leg-joints which will break by the weight of the bird, 
fresh-colored and brittle beaks, and wind -pipes that break when pressed bet-jreen 
the thumb and forefinger. They are best in fall and winter. 

Young pigeons have light red flesh upon the breast, and full, fresh-colored 
legs; when, the legs are thin and the breast very dark the birds are eld. 

Fine game, birds are always heavy for their size; the flesh o2 the breast is 
firm and plump, and the skin clear; and if a few feathers be iflucked from the 
inside of the leg and around the vent, the flesh of freshly-killed birds wiU be fat 
and fresh-colored; if it is dark and discolored, the game bas been hung a long 
time. The wings of good ducks, geese, pheasants, and woodcock are tender to 
the touch; the tips of the long wing feathers of part^dges are pointed in young 
birds and round -in old ones. Quail, snipe and P3iall birds should have fuU, 
tender breasts. Poultry should never be cooked intil six or eight hours after it 
has been killed, Mt it should be picked and df^awn as soon aS possible. Plunge 
it in a pot of scalding hot water; then pluck off the feathers, taking care not to 
tear the skin; when it is picked clean, roll ap a piece of white paper, set fire to 
it, and singe off all the hairs. The hea>% neck and feet should be cut off, and 
&xe ends of the legs skewered to the body, and a string tied tightly around the 
lody. When roasting a chicken or email fowl there is danger of the legs brown* 



POULTRY AND GAMS. 7 1 

Ing or becoming too hard to be eaten. To avoid this, take strips of cloth, dip 
them into a little melted lard, or even just rub them over with lard, and wind 
them around the legs. Remove them in time to allow the legs to brown.doli- 
cately. 

Fowls, and also various kinds of game, when bought at our city markets, 
require a more thorough cleansing than thos^ sold in country places, where as a 
general thing the meat is wholly dressed. In large cities they lay for some 
length of time with the intestines undrawn, until the flavor of them diffuses itself 
all through the meat, rendering it distasteful lurthis case, it is safe after taking 
out the intestines, to rinse out in several waters, and in next to the last water, 
add a teaspoonful of baking soda; say to a quart of water. This process neutral- 
izes all sourness, and helps to destroy aU tmpleasant taste in the meat. 

Poultry may be baked so that its wings and legs are soft and tender, by being 
placed in a deep roasting pan with close cover, thereby retaining the aroma and 
essences by absorption while confined. These pans are a recent innovation, and 
are made double with a small opening in the top for giving rent to the accumu- 
lation of ste§ma and gases when required. Boast meats of any kind can also be 
cooked in the same manner, and it is a great improvement on the old plan. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a young'turkey; remove all the feathers carefully, singe it over a burn- 
ing newspaper on the top of the stove; then " draw " it nicely, being very care- 
ful not to break any of the internal organs; remove the crop carefully; cut ofl 
the head, and tie the neck close to the body by drawing the skin over it. Now 
rinse the inside of the turkey out with .several waters, and in the next to the 
last, mix a teaspoonful of baking soda; oftentimes the inside of a fowl is very 
sour, especially if it is not freshly killed. Soda, being cleansing, acts as a cor- 
rective, and destroys that unpleasant taste which we frequently experience in the 
dressing when fowls have been killed for some time. Now, after washing, wipe 
the turkey dry, inside and out, with a clean cloth, rub the inside with some salt, 
then stuff th& breast and body with " Dressing for Fowls." Then sew up the 
turkey with a strong, thread, tie the legs and wings to the body, rub. it over with 
a little soft butter, sprinkle over some salt and pepper, dredge with a little flour; 
place it in a dripping pan, pour in a cup of boiling water, and set it in the oven. 
Baste the turkey often, turning it aroimd occasionally so that every part will be 
uniformly baked. When pierced with a fork and the liquid runs out perfectly 
dear, the bird is done. If any part is likely to scorch, pin over it a piece of but- 



ift POULTRY AND GAME. 

tored white paper. A fifteen-pound turkey requires between three and fom 
hours to bake. Serve with cranberry sauce. 

Gravy for Turkey.— ^Yien you put the turkey in to roast, put the neck, 
heart, Uver and gizzard into a stew-pan with a pint of water; boil until they 
become quite tender; take them out of the water, chop the heart and gizzard, 
mash the liver and throw away the neck; return the chopped heart, gizzard and 
liver to the liquor in which they were stewed; set it to one side, and when the 
turkey is done it should be added to the gravy that dripped from the turkey, 
having first skimmed off the fat from the surface of the dripping-pan; set it all 
over the fire, boil three minutes and thicken with flour. It will not need brown 
flour to color the gravy. The garnishes for turkey or chicken are fried oysters, 
thin slices of bam, shoes of leraon, fried sausages, or force-meat baUs, also 
paxsley. 

DRESSING OR STUFFING FOR FOWLS. 

For an eight or ten pound turkey, cut the brown crust from sUces or pieces 
of stale bread until you have as much as the inside of a pound loaf; j)ut it into a 
suitable dish, and pour tepid water (not warm, for that makes it heavy) over itj 
let it stand one minute, as it soaks very quickly. Now take up a handful at a 
time and squeeze it hard and dry with both hands, placing it, as you go along, in 
another dish; this process makes it veiy light. When all is pressed dry, toss it 
all up Ughtly through your fingers; now add pepper, salt, — about a teaspoonful 
•—also a teaspoonful of powdered summer savory, the same amount of sage, or 
the green herb minced fine; add half a cup of melted butter, and a beaten egg, 
or not. Wprk thoroughly all together, and it is ready for dressing either fowls, 
fish or meats. A little chopped sausage in turkey dressing is considered by some 
an improvement, when well incorporated with the other ingredients. For geese 
and ducks the stuffing may be made the same as for turkey with the addition 
of a few slices of onion chopped fine. 

OYSTER DRESSING OR STUFFING. 

This is made with the same ingredients as the above, with the exception of 
half a can of oysters drained, and sUghtly chopped and added to the rest. This 
is used mostly with boiled' turkey and chicken, and the remainder of the can of 
oysters used to make an oyster sauce to be poured over the turkey when served; 
served generally in a separate dish, to be dipped out as a person desires. 

These recipes were obtained from an old colored cook, who was famous for 
Taia fine dressings for fowls, fish and meats, and hie advice wa^ <Awaye soak 



POVL TR y AND GAME. 73 

Stale bread in cold liquid, either milk or water, when used for stuffing or for pud- 
dings, as they were much lighter. Hot Uquid makes them heavy. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Piepare as you would for baking or roasting; fill with an oyster stufiing, 
made 33 the above. Tie the legs and wings close to the body, place in salted 
boiling water with the breast downward; skim it often and boil about two 
hours, but not till the skin breaks. Serve with oyster or celery sauce. Boil a 
nicely pickled piece_ of salt pork, and serve at table a thin sUce to each plate. 
Some prefer beicon or ham instead of pork. 

Some roll the turkey in a cloth dipped in flour. If the Uquor is to be used 
afterwards for soup, the cloth imparts an unpleasant flavor. The liquor can be 
saved and made into a nice soup for the next day's dinner, by adding the same 
seasonings as for chicken soup. 

TURKEY SCALLOP. 
Pick the meat from the bones of cold turkey, and chop it fine. Put a layer 
of bread crumbs on the bottom of- a buttered dish, moisten them with a Uttle 
milk, then put in a layer of turkey with some of the fiUing, and cut small pieces 
of butter over the top; sprinkle with pepper and salt; then another layer of 
bread-crumbs, and so on until the dish is nearly full; add a little hot water to 
the gravy left from the turkey and pour over it; then take two eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter, a little salt and cracker-crumbs as much 
as will make it thick enough to spread on with a knife; put bits of butter over 
it, and cover with a plate. Bake three-quarters of an hour. Ten minutes before 
serving, remove th6 'plate and let it brown. 

TURKEY HASHED. 
Cut the remnants of turkey from a previous dinner into pieces of equal size. 
Boil the bones in a qiiart of water, until the quart is reduced to a pint; then take 
out the bones, and to the liquor in which they were boiled add turkey gravy, 
if you have any, or white stock, or a small piece of butter with salt and pepper; 
let the liquor thus prepared boil up once; then put in the pieces of turkey, dredge 
in a little flour, give it one boil-up, and serve in a hot dish. 

TURKEY WARMED OVER. 
Pieces of cold tiu"key or chicken may be warmed up with a little butter in a 
frying-pan; place it on a warm platter, surround it with pieces of araall thick 
dices of bread or biscuit halved, firet dipping them in hot salted water; £hoo 



74 POULTRY AND GAME. 

place the platter in a warm oven with the door opsn. Have already made the 
follovring gravy to pour over all: 

Into the fryiag-pan put a large spoonful of butter, one or two cupfuls of 
milk, and any gravy that may be left over. Bring it to a boil; then add suffi- 
pient flour, wet in a little cold milk or water, to make it the consistency of 
cream. Season with salt, pepper and add a httle of the dark meat chopped very 
<.fine. Let the sauce cook a few moments; then pour over the biscuit and fowl. 
This will be found a really nice dish. 

BONED TURKEY. 

Clean the fowl aa usual. With a sliarp and pointed knife, begin at the 
extremity of the wLug, and pass the knife down close to the bone, cutting all the 
flesh from the bone, and preserving the skin whole; run the knife down each 
side of the breast bone and up the legs, keeping close to the bone; then spht the 
back half way up, and draw out the bones; fill the places whence the bones 
were- taken vinth a stuffing, restoring the.fowl to its natural form, and sew up 
all thejapisipns made in the skin. Lard with two or three rows of slips of £ak 

bacon on the top, basting often with salt and water, and a little butter. Some 

like a glass of port wine in the gravy. 
• This is a difficult dish to attempt by any but skillful hands. Carve across 

in slices, and serve with tomato sauce. 

l??JASt'e50SE. 

The goose should noc oe more than eight months old, and the fatter the more 
tender and juicy the meat. Stuff with the following mixture: Three pints of 
bread-crumbs, six ounces of butter, or part butter and part salt pork, one tea- 
spoonful each of sage, black pepper and salt, one chopped onion. Do not stuff 
very fuU, and stitch openings firmly together to keep flavor in and fat- out. 
Place in a baking pan with a httle water, and baste frequently vfith salt anrf 
water (some add vinegar); turn often so that the sides and back may be nicely 
browned. Bake two hours or more; when done take from the pan, pour off the 
fat, and to the brown gravy left, add the chopped giblets which have previously 
been stewed until tender, together with the water they were boiled in; thicken 
with a little flour and butter rubbed together, bring to a boil and serve. English 
style. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Pick and draw them, wash out well in two or three waters, adding a little soda 
to the last but one to sweeten it. if there is doubt as to its being fresh. Di; It 



POULTR Y AND GAME. 7S 

well with a clean cloth, and fill the crop and body vrfth a stuffing the same aa 
•■' Dressing for Fowls." Lay it in a dripping-pan; put a pint of hot water and a 
piece of butter in the dripping-pan, add to it a small tablespoonful of s^t, and a 
small teaspoonful of pepper; baste frequently, and let it roast quickly, without 
scorching; when nearly done, put a piece of butter the size of a large egg to the 
water in the pan; when it melts, baste with it, dredge a little floiu: over, baste 
again, and let it finish; half ah hour will roast a full-grown c^iicken, if the fire 
is right. When done, take it up. 

Having stewed the necks, gizzards, livers and hearts in a very little water, 
strain it and mix it hot with the gravy that has dripped frum the fowls, and 
which must be first skimmed. Thicken it with a Uttle browned flour, add to it 
the livers, hearts and gizzards chopped small. Or, put the giblets in the pan 
with the chicken, and let them roast. Send the fowls to the table with the 
gravy in a boat. Cranberry sauce should accompany them, or any tart sauce. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Clean, wash and stuff, as for roasting. Baste a floured cloth around eacn, 
and put into a pot with enough boiling water to cover them well. The hot 
water cooks the skin at once and prevents th'e escape of the juice. I'he broth 
will not be so rich as if the fowls are put on in cold water, but this is a proof 
that the meat will be more nutritious and better flavored. Stew very slowly, 
for the first half hour especially. Boil an hour or more, guiding yourself by 
size and toughness. Serve vnth egg, bread, or oyster sauce. (See Sauces.) 

STEAMED CHICKEN. 

Bub the chicken on the inside witli pepper and half a teaspoonful of salt; 
place in a steamer in a kettle that will keep it as near the water as possible, 
cover, and steam an hour and a half; when done, keep hot while dressing is 
prepared, then cut up, arrange on the platter, and serve with, the dressing ovei 
them. 

The dressing is made as follows: Boil one pint of gravy from the kettle with 
out the fat, add cayenne pepper and half a teaspoonful of salt; stir a tablespoonful 
of flour into a quarter of a pint of cream until smooth, and add to the gravy 
Com starch may be used instead of the flour, and some cooks add nutmeg or 
celery salt. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN, 

Cut up two young chickens, put them in a stew-pan with juat enou^ cold 
water to cover them. Cover closely, and let them heat very slowly; then stew 



76 POULTRY AND GAME. 

them over an Loiir, or until tendar. K th^ are old chickfflM, they will require 
long, elow boiling, often from three to four hours. When tender, season vrith 
eaJt and pepper, a piece of butter as large as an egg, and a little celery, if liked. 
Stir up two tablespoonf uls of flour in a little water or milk, and add to the stew, 
also two well-beaten yolks of eggs; let all boil up one minute; arrange the chicken 
on a warm platter, pour some of the gravy over it, and send the rest to the table 
in a boat. The egg should be added to a little of tlie cooled gravy, before putting 
with the hot gravy. 

STEWED WHOLE SPRING CHICKEN. 

Dress a fuU-grown spring chicken the same as for roasting, seasoning it with 
fialt and pepper inside and out; then fill the body with oysters; place it in a tin 
pail with a close-fitting cover. Set the pail in a pot of fast-boiling water and 
cook until the chicken is tender. Dish up the chicken on a warm dish, then 
pour the gravy into a sauce-pan, put into it a tablespoonful )f butter, half of a 
cupful of cream or rich milk, three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine; some minced 
herbs and a tablespoonful of flour. Let all boil up and then pour it over the 
chicken. Serve hot. 

PICKLED CHICKEN. 

Boil four chickens till tender enough for meat to fall from bones: put meat 
in a stone jar, and pom: over it three pints of cold, good dder vinegar and a pint 
and a half of the water in which the chickens were bofled; add spices if preferred, 
and it will be ready for use in two days. This is a popular Sunday evening dish; 
it is good for luncheon at any time. 

RISSOLES OP CHICKEN. 

Mince up finely the remains of a cold chicken together with half tlie quan> 
tity of lean, cold ham. Mix them well, adding enough white sauce to moisten 
them. Now have light paste rolled out imtil about a quarter of an inch or a 
little more in thiclcness Cut the paste into pieces, one inch by two in size, and 
lay a httle of the mixture upon the centres of half of the pieces and cover them 
with the other halves, pressing the edges neatly together and forming them into 
little rolls. Have your frying-pan ready with plenty of boiling hot lard, or other 
frying medium, and fry until they become a golden-brown color. A minute or 
two will be 9ufQcient for this. Then drain them well-and een» immediateljr <xi 
a napkin. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 77 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 

Mince up fine cold chicken, either roasted or boiled. Season it with pepper 
and salt, and a little minced parsley and onion. Moisten it with chicken gravy 
or cream sauce, fill scalloped shells that are lined with pastry with the mixture, 
and sprinkle bread-crumbs over the tops. Put two or three tiny pieces of butter 
over each, and bake brown in a hot oven. 

TO BROIL CHICKEN. 

After dressing and washing the chickens as previously directed, split thetn 
open through the back-bone; frog them by cutting the cords under the wings 
and laying the wings out fiat; cut the sinews under the second jouit of the leg 
and turn the leg dovvm; press down the breast-bone without breaking it. 

Season the chicken with salt and pepper, lay it upon the gridiron with the 
inside first to the fire; put the gridiron over a slow fire, and place a tin sheet and 
weight upon the chicken, to keep it flat; let it broil ten minutes, then tiun and 
proceed in the same manner with the other side, 

The chicken should be perfectly cooked, but not scorched. A broiled ehickea 
brought to the table with its wings and legs burnt, and its breast half cooked, is 
very disagreeable. To avoid this, the chicken must be closely watched while 
broiling, and the fire must be arranged so that the heat shall be equally dis* 
pensed. When the fire is to<rhot under any one part of the chicken, put a Uttle 
ashes on the fire imder that part, that the heat may be reduced. 

Dish a broiled chicken on a hot plate, putting a large lump of butter and a 
tablespoouful of hot water upon the plate, and turning the chicken two or 
three times that it may absorb as much of the butter as possible. Garnish with 
parsley. Serve with poached eggs on a separate dish. It takes from thirty to 
forty minutes to broil a chicken well. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Prepare the chicken as for f ncassee. When the chickens are stewed tender, 
seasoned, and the gravy thickened, take it from the fire; take out the largest 
bones, scrape the meat from the neck and back-bone, throw the bones away; 
line the sides of a four or six quart pudding-dish with a rich baking powder or soda 
biscuit-dough, a quarter of an inch thick; put in part of the chicken, a few 
lumps of butter, pepper and salt, if needed, some cold boiled eggs cut in slices. 
Add the rest of the chicken and season as before; a few new potatoes in their 
season might bo added. Four over the gravy, being sure to have enough to 



78 POULTRY AND GAM&. 

fill the dish, and cover with a crust a qturter of an inch thick. mad« with A b<il» 
in the cenb^e the size of a t.cacup. 

Brush over the top with beaten white of egg, and bake for half to three- 
quarters of an hour. Garnish the top with small bright celery leaves, neatly 
uranged in a circle. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Wash and cut up a young chicken, wipe it dry, season with salt and pepper, 
dredge it with flour, or dip each piece in beaten egg and then in cracker-crurabs. 
Have in a frying-pan, one ounce each of butter and sweet lard, made boiling hot. 
Lay in the chicken and fry brown on both sides. Take up, drain them, and set 
aside in a covered dish. Stir into the gravy left, if not too much, a large table- 
spoonful of flour, make it smooth, add a cup of cream or milk, season with salt 
and pepper, boil up and pour over the chicken. Some like chopped parsley 
added to the gravy. Serve hot. 

If the chicken is old, put into a stew-pan with a little water, and simmer 
gently till tender; season with salt and pepper, dip in flour or cracker-crumb and 
egg, and fry as above. Use the broth the chicken was cooked in to make the 
gravy instead of the cream or milk, or use an equal quantity of both. 

FRIED CHICKEN A LA ITALIENNE. 

Make common hatter; mix into it a cupful of chopped tomatoes, one omon 
chopped, some minced parsley, salt and pepper. Cut up yoimg tender chickens, 
dry them well and dip each piece in the batter; then fry brown in plenty of butter. 
in a thick bottom frying-pan. Serve with tomato sauce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. No. i. 

Put a cup of cream or mUk in a sauce-pan, set it over the fire, and when it 
boils add a lump of butter as large as an egg, in which has been mixed a table- 
spoonful of flour. Let it boil up thick; remove from the fire, and when cool, mix 
into it a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonf ul of pepper, a bit of minced onion 
or parsley, one cup of fine bread-crumbs, and a pint of finely-chopped cooked 
chicken, either roasted or boiled. Lastly, beat up two eggs and work in with the 
whole. Flour your hands and make into small, rotmd, fiat cakes; dip in e^ 
and bread-crumbs, and fry like fish-cakes, in butter and good sweet lard mixed, 
or like fried cakes in plenty of hot lard. Take them up with a skimmer and lay 
them on brown paper to free them from the grease. Serve hot 



POULTRy AND GAMS. 79 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. No. 2. 

Take any kind of fresh meat or fowl, chop very fine, add an equal quantity 
of smoothly mashed potatoes, mix, and season with butter, salt, black pepper, a 
little prepared mustard, and a little cayenne pepper; make into cakes, dip in egg 
and bread-crumbs and fry a light brown. A nice relish for tea._ 

TO FRY CROQUETTES. 

Beat up two eggs in a deep bowl; roll enough crackers until you have a cup- 
ful of crumbs, or the same of fine stale bread-crumbs; spread the crumbs on a 
large plate or pie-tin. Have over the fire a kettle containing two or three inches 
of boiling lard. As fast as the croquettes are formed, roll them in the crumbs, 
then dip them in the beaten egg, then again roll them in crumbs; drop them in 
the smoking hot fat and fry them a Ught golden brown. 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

Clean and cut up your chickens. Stew in just enough water to cover them. 
When nearly cooked, season them well with salt and pepper. Let them stew 
down until the water is nearly all boiled out, and the meat drops easQy from the 
bones. Remove the bones and gristle; chop the meat, rather coarsely, then turn 
it back into the stew-kettle, where the broth was left (after skimming off all fat), 
and let it heat through again. Turn it into a square bread-pan, placing a platter 
on the top, and a heavy weight on the platter. This, if properly prepared, vioU 
turn out like a mold of jelly and may be sliced m smooth, even slices. The suc- 
cess of this depends upon not having too much water; it will not jelly if too weak, 
or if the water is allowed to boil away entirely while cooking. A good way to 
000k old fowb 

CHICKEN LUNCH FOR TRAVELLING. 

Cut a young chicken down the back; wash and wipe dry; season with salt 
and pepper; put in a dripping-pan and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters 
of an hour. This is much better for travelling limch than when seasoned with 
butter. 

All kinds of poultry and meat can be cooked quicker by adding to the water 
in which they are boiled a little vinegar or a piece of lemon. By the use of a 
little acid there will be a considerable saving of fuel, as well as shortening of 
time. Its action is beneficial on old tough meats, rendering them quite tender 
aad easy of digestion. Tainted meats and fowls will lose their bad taste and 



80 POULTRY AND GAME. 

odor if cooked in this way, and if not used too freely no taste of it will be 
acquired. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

Strip the meat from the bones of a cold, roast fowl; to every pound of meat 
allow a quarter of a pound of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste; one tea- 
spoonful of pounded mace, half a small nutmeg. Cut the meat into smaQ 
pieces, pound it well with the butter, sprinkle in the spices gradually, and keep 
pounding until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Pack it into small jars 
and cover -with clarified butter, about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Two or 
three slices of ham, minced and pounded with the above, will be an improve- 
ment. Keep in a dry place. A luncheon or breakfast dish. 

Old fowls can be made very tender by putting into them, while boiling, a 
piece of soda as large as a bean. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Divide a fowl into joints and boil till the meat leaves the bone readily. Take 
out the bones and chop the meat as small as dice. Thicken the water in which 
the fowl was boiled with four, and season to taste with butter and salt. Fill a 
deep dish with alternate layers of bread-crumbs and chicken and slices of cookigji 
potatoes, having crumbs on top. Pour the gravy over the top, and add a few 
bits of butter and bake till nicely browned. There should be gravy enough to 
moisten the dish. Serve with a garnish of parsley. Tiny new potatoes are nice 
in place of sliced ones, when in season. 

PREADED CHICKEN. 

Prepare young chickens as for fricassee by cutting them into pieces. Dip 
each piece in beaten egg, then in grated bread-crumbs or rolled cracker; season 
them with pepper and salt, and a little minced parsley. Place them in a baking- 
pan, and put on the top of each piece a lump of butter, add half of a cupful of 
hot water; bake slowly, basting Often When sufficiently cooked take up on a 
warm platter. Into the pan pour a cup of cream or rich milk, a cupful of 
bread-crumbs. Stir it well imtil cooked then pour it over the chicken. Serve 
«rhile hot. 

BROILED CHICKEN ON TOAST. 

Broil the usual way^ and when thoroughly done take it up in a square tin or 
dripping-pan, butter it well, season with pepper and salt, and set it in the oven 
for a few miautos. Ls^ slices of moistened buttered toast on a platter; take 1^« 



POULTRY AND GAME. 8l 

chicken up over it, add to the gravy in the pan part of a cijpful of cream, if you 
have it; if not, use milk. Thicken with a Uttle flour and pour over the chicken. 
This is considered most excellent. 

CURRY CHICKEN. 

Cut up a chicken weighing from a pound and a half to two pounds, as for 
fricassee, wash it well, and put it into a stew-pan with sufficient water to cover it; 
boil it closely covered, until tender; add a large teaspoonful of salt, and cook a few 
minutes longer; then remove from the fire, take out the chicken, pour the liquor? 
into a bowl, and set it one side. Now cut up into the stew-pdn two smaU onions,' 
and fry them with a piece of butter as large as an egg; as soon as the onions are^ 
brown, skim th&m ouji and put in the chicken; fry for three or fpuxWioutes; 
next sprinkle over two teaspoonfuls of Curry Powder, Now pour over the.liquor 
in which the cMcken was stewed, stir all well together, and stew for five minutes 
longer, then stir into this a tablespoonful of sifted flour made thin with a little 
water; lastly, stir in a beaten yolk of egg, and it is done. 

Serve with hot boiled rice laid round on the edge of a platter, and the chicken 
curry in the centre. 

This makes a handsome side dish, and a fine relish accompanying a full 
dinner-.of roast beef or any roast. 

All first-class grocers and druggists keep this " India Curry Powder," put 
up in bottles. Beef, veal, mutton, duck, pigeons, partridges, rabbits or fresh 
fish may be substituted for the chicken, if preferred, and sent to the table with 
or without a dish of rice. 

To Boil Rica for Curry. — Pick~over the rice, a cupfuL Wash it thoroughly 
tn two or three cold waters; then leave it about twenty minutes in cold water. 
Put into a stew-pan two quarts of water with a teaspoonful of salt in it, andi 
when it boils, sprinkle in the rice. Boil it briskly for twenty minutes, keeping 
the pan covered. Take it from the fire, and drain off the water. Afterwards 
set the sauce-pan on the back of the stove, with the Ud off, to allow the rice to 
dry and the grains to separate. 

Rice, if properly boiled, should be soft and white, and every grain stand 
alone. Serve it hot in a separate dish or served as above, laid around the chicken 
curry. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. No. x. 

Cut and joint a large chic^n, cover with cold water, and let it boil gently 
until tender. Season with" salt and pepper, and thicken the |^vy with twa 



Sa POULTRY AND CAME. 

tablespoonfuls of flour, mixed smooth with a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Have ready nice light bread-dough; cut with the top of a wineglass about hall 
an inch tiiick; let them stand half an hour and rise, then drop these into tho 
boiling gravy. Put the cover on the pot closely, wrap a cloth around it, in order 
that no steam shall escape; and by no means allow the pot to cease boiling. Boil 
three-quarters of an hour. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. No. 2. 

This style of pot-pie was made more in our grandmother's day than now, as 
most cooks consider that cooking crust so long destroys its spongey lightness, and 
renders it too hard and dry. 

Take a pair of fine fowls; cut them up, wash the pieces, and season -with 
pepper only. Make a hght biscuit dough, and plenty of it, as it is always much 
Uked by the eaters of pot-pie. EoU out the dough not very thin, and cut most 
of it into long squares. Butter the sides of a pot, and line them with dougb 
nearly to the top. Lay slices of cold ham at the bottom of the pot, and then the 
pieces of fowl, interspersed all through with squares of dough and potatoes, 
pared and quartered. Pour in a quart of water. Cover the whole with a lid of 
dough, having a slit in the centre, through which the gravy will bubble up. 
Boil it steadily for two hours. Half an hour before you take it up, put in 
through the hole in the centre of the crust seme bits of butter rolled in flour, to 
thicken the gravy. When done, put tho pie on a large dish, and pour the gravy- 
over it. 

"Sou may intersperse it all through with cold ham. 

A pot-pie may be made of ducks, rabbits, squirrels, or venison. Also of be^- 
steak. A beef-steak, or some pork-steaks (the lean only), greatly improve a 
chicken pot-pie. If you use no ham, season with salt. 

CHICKEN STEWED, WITH BISCUIT. 

Take chickens, and make a fricassee; just before you are ready to dish it up, 
have ready two balcing-tins of rich soda or baking-powder biscuits; take them 
from tho oven hot, split them apart by breaking them with your hands, lay them 
on a large meat platter, covering it, then pour the hot chicken stew over aU. 
Send to the table hot. This is a much better way than boiling this kind of 
biscuit in the stew, as you are more sure of its being always light. 

CHICKEN DRESSED AS TERRAPIN. 
Select young cliickens, clean and cut them into pieces; put them into a stew- 
pan with just enough water to cook them. When tender stir into it half of a 



iv« 



S53^ el butiter and one beaten egg. Seastm it with aalt and pepper, a 16^^ 
ffljsooolul of powdered thyme; add two hard-boiled eggs coarsJy minced and 
18 smal gleuie ol wine. Boil up once and serve with Jelly^ 

CHICKEN ROLY-POLV. 

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar mixed with the flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a teacupful of milk; a tea^poonful of salt; 
do not use shortening of any kiiid, but roU out the ioajxllltt'e half an inch thick, 
and on it lay minced chicken, veal or mutton. The meat must be seasoned vtith 
pepper and salt, and be free from gristle. Roll the crust over and over, and put 
it on a buttered plate and place in a steamer for half an hour. Serve for break- 
fast or lunch, giving a shoe to each person with gravy served with it. 

CHICKEN TURNOVERS. 

Chop cold roast chicken very fine. Put it into a sauce-pan, place it over the 
fire, moisten it with a Mttle water and gravy, or a piece of butter. Season with 
salt and pepper; add a. small tablespoonful bf sifted flour, dissolved in a Uttle 
water; heat all throng, and remove from the fire to become cool. When cooled 
roll out some plain pie-crust quite thin, cut out in roimds as large as a saucer; 
wet the edge with cold water, and put a large spoonful of the minced meat on 
one-half of the round; ftold ihe other half over, and pinch the edges well together, 
then fry them in hot drippings or fat, a nice brovni. They may also be cooked 
in a moderate oven. 

CHICKEN PUDDING, 

Cut up two young chickens into good-sized pieces; put them in a sauce-pan 
with just enough water to cover them weU. When boiled quite tender, season 
with salt and pepper; let them simmer ten or fifteen minutes longer; then take 
the chicken from the broth and remove all the large bones. Place the meat in 
a well-buttered pudding-dish, season again, if necessary, adding a few bits of 
butter. Pour over this the following batter: 

Eight eggs beaten light and mixed with one quart of milk, three tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and two large teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, added to enough sifted flour to make a batter like griddle-cakes. 

Bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

Make a gravy of the broth that remained from the cooking of the chicken, 
adding a tablespoonful of flour, stirred into a third of a cup of melted butter; let 
it boil up, putting in more water, if necessary. Serve hot in a gravy boat, with 
tbe pudding. 



»4 POULTRY AND GAME. 

CHICKEN AND MACCARONI. 

Boil a chicken until very tender, take out aH the bones, and pick up the meat 
quite fine. Boil half a pound of maccaroni until tender, first breaking it up to 
pieces an inch long. Butter a deep pudding-dish, put on the bottom a layer of 
the cooked raaccaroni, then a layer of the minced chicken, bits of butter, pepper 
and salt, then some of the chicken Uquor, over this put another layer of macca- 
roni, and so on, until the dish is filled. Poura cup of cream over the whole, 
and bake half £in hour. Serve on a platter. 

ROAST DUCK. (Tame.) 

Pick, draw, clean thoroughly, and wipe dry. Cut the neck close to the back, 
beat the breastbone flat with a rolling-pin, tie the wings and legs securely, and 
stuff with the following: 

Three pints bread-crumbs, six ounces butter, or part butter and salt pork, 
two chopped onions and one teaspoonful each of sage, black pepper and salt. 
Do not stuff very full, and sew up the openings firmly to keep the flavor in and 
the fat out. If not fat enough, it should be larded with salt pork, or tie a sUce 
upon the breast. Place in a baking-pan, with a httle water, and baste frequently 
with salt and water— some add onion, and some vinegar; turn often, so that the 
sides and back may all be nicely browned. When nearly done, baste with 
butter and a httle flour. These directions will apply to tame geeso as well as 
ducks. Young ducks should roast from twenty-five to thirty minutes, and full- 
grown ones for an hour or more, with frequent basting. Some prefer them 
underdone and served very hot; but, as a rule, thorough cooking will prove more 
palatable. Make a gravy out of the neck and gizzards by putting them in a 
quart of cold water, that must be reduced to a pint by boiling. The giblets, 
when done, may be chopped fine and added to the juice. The preferred season- 
ings are one tabiespoonful of Madeira or sherry, a blade of mace, one smaH 
onion, and a Uttle cayenne pepper; strain through a hair sieve, pour a little ov^j- 
the ducks and serve the remainder in a boat. Served with jellies or any tart 
sauce. 

BRAISED DUCKS. 

Prepare a pair of fine young ducks, the same as for roasting, place them in a 
stew-pan together with two Or three slices of bacon, a carrot, an onioa stuck 
with two cloves, and a little thymie and parsley. Season with pepper, and covpr 
the whole with a breth, adding to the bioth a gill of white wine. Flaee the j^aii 



POULTRY AND GAME. 85 

over a gentle fire and allow the ducks to simmer until done, basting them fre- 
quently. When done remove them from the pan, and place them where they 
will keep hot. A turnip should then be cut up and fried in some butter. When 
nicely browned, drain the pieces and cook them until tender in the liquor in 
which the ducks were braised. Now strain and thicken the gravy, and after 
dishing up the ducks, pour it over them, garnishing with the pieces of turnip. 

— Palmer House, Ckioago, 

STEWED DUCK. 

Prepare them by cutting them up the same as chicken for fricassee. Lay 
two or three very thin sUces of salt pork upon the bottom of a stew-pan; lay^the 
pieces of duck upon the pork. Let them stew slowly for an hour, closely cov- 
ered. Then season with salt and pepper, half a teaspoonful of powdered .sage, 
or some green sage minced fine; one chopped onion. Stew another half hour 
until the duck is tender. Stir up a large tablespoonf lil of brown floiu"in a Uttle 
water and add it to the stew. Let it boil up, ajid serve £ill <together^ one dish. 

accompanied with green peas. 

-Palmer Jlouae, Chicago: 

DUCK PIE. 

Cut all the meat from cold roast ducks; put the hones and stuffing into cold 
water; cover them and let boil; put the meat into a deep dish; .pour on enough of 
the stock made from the bones to moisten; cover with pastry «lit in the centre 
with a knife, and bake a light brown. 

WARMED UP DUCK. 

A nice dish for breakfast, and very relishing, can be made from the remains 
of a roast of duck. Cut the meat from the bones, pick out all the little tidbits 
in the recesses, lay them in a frying-pan, and cover with water and the cold 
gravy left from the roast; add a piece of butter; let aU boil up once and if not 
quite thick enough, stir in a Tittle dissolved flour. Serve hot. 

ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Wild duck should not be dressed too soon after being killed. If the weather 
is cold it will be better for being kept several days. Bake in a hot oven, letting 
it remain for five or ten minutes without basting to keep in the gravy, then 
baste frequently with butter and water. If overdone it loses flavor, 30 to 49 
minutes in the right kind of an oven being suffidaati Serve on a very hot disl^ 
and send to table as hot aa possible wttji a cut lemoa a»S the following sauce: 



S6 POOLTRV Atn3 OAMB. 

Put in a tiny sauce-pan a tablespoonful each of Worcestershire sauce and 

mushroom catsup, a little salt and cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a 

lemon. Mix well, make it hot, remove from the fire, and stir in a teaspoonfui 

of made mustard. Pour into a hot gravy boat. 

—California Style, Lick Houte. 

WILD DUCKS. 

Most wild ducks are apt to have the flavor of fish, and when in the hands of 
inexperienced cooks are sometimes unpalatable on this account. Before roasting 
them, parboil them with a small peeled carrot put within each duck. This 
absorbs the unpleasant taste. An onion will have the same effect, but imless you 
use onions in the stuffing, the carrot is preferable. Eoast the same as tame 
duck. Or put into the duck a whole onion peeled, plenty of salt and pepper and 
a glass of claret, bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. Serve hot with the gravy 
it yields in cooking and a dish of current jelly. 

CANVAS-BACK DUCK. 

The epicm-ean taste declares that this special kind of bird requires no spices 
or flavors to make it perfect, as the meat partakes of the flavor of the food 
that the bird feeds upon, being mostly wild celery; and the delicious flavor is 
best preserved when roasted quickly with a hot fibre. After dressing the duck 
in the usual way, by plucking, singing, drawing, wipe it with a wet towel, truss 
the head under the wing; place it in a dripping-pan, put it in the oven, basting 
often, and roast it half an hour. It is generally preferred a httle underdone. 
Place it when done on a hot dish, season well with salt and pepper, pour over it 
the gravy it has yielded in baking and serve it immediately while hot. 

— Delmonico. 

ROAST PIGEONS. 

Pigeons lose their flavor by being kept more than a day after they are Idlled. 
They may be prepared and roasted or broiled the same as chickens; they will 
require from twenty to thirty minutes cooking. Make a gravy of the giblets or 
not, season it with pepper and salt, and add a little flour and butter. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Clean and stuff with onion dressing, thyme, etc.,— do not sew up; take five 
or more slices of corned pork, let it fry a while in a pot so that the fat comes out 
and it begins to brown a little; then lay the pigeons all around in the fat, leaving 
the pork still in; add hot water enough to partially cover them; cover tightly 
asd boil an hour or so ontU tender; then turn off some of the liquid, and keep 



POOLTRY AND GAME «J 

turning them $o they vnU browu nicely; then heat and add the liquor poured 
off; add extra thyme, pepper, and keep turning until the pigeons and gravy ^x^ 
nicely browned. Thicken with a little flour, and serve with the gravy poiued 
over them; garnish with parsley. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Take half a dozen pigeons; stuff each one with a dressing the same as for 
turkey; loosen the joints with a k^e, but do not separate them. Put them in 
a stew-pan with water enough to cover them, let them cook until nearly tender, 
then season them with salt and pepper and butter. Thicken the gravy with 
flour, remove and cooL Butter a pudding-dish, Une the sides with a rich crust. 
Have ready some hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Put in a layer of egg and birda 
and gravy until the dish is fulL Cover with a crust and bake. 

BROILED PIGEONS OR SQUABS. 

Split them down the back and broil the same as chicken; seasoning well with 
salt, pepper and plenty of butter. Broil slices of salt pork, very thin; place a 
slice over each bird and serve. 

SQUAB POT-PIE. 

Cut into dice three ounces of salt pork; divide six wild squabs into pieces, at 
the joints; remove the sMn. Cut up four potatoes into small squares, and pre- 
pare a dozen small dough balls. 

Put into a yellow, deep baking-dish the pork, potatoes and squabs, and then 

the balls of dough; season with salt, white pepper, a dash of mace or nutmeg. 

add hot water enough to cover the ingredients, cover with a " short " pie-crust 

and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. 

— Palmer Mouse, Chicago, 

WOODCOCK, ROASTED. 

Skin the head and neck of the bird, pluck the feathers, and truss it by bring- 
ing the beak of the bird under the wing, and fastening the pinion to the thigh; 
twist the legs at the knuckles and press the feet upon the thigh. Put a piece of 
bread under each bird to catch the drippings, baste with butter, dredge with 
flour, and roast fifteen or twenty minutes with a sharp fire. When done, cut 
the bread in diamond shape, each piece large enough to stand one bird upon, 
place them aslant cm your dish, and serve with gravy enou^ to moisten the 
bread; serve some m tihedish and some in the tureen; garnish with slices of 
lemon. Boast from twealy to twenty-five ixdBated. 



88 POULTRY AND GAME. 

SNIPE. 
Snipe are similar to woodcock, and may be served in the same manner; they 
will require less time to roast. 

REED BIRDS. 

Pick and draw them very carefully, salt and dredge with flour, and roast 
with a quick fire ten or fifteen minutes. Serve on toast with butter and pepper. 
You can put in each one an oyster dipped in butter and then in bread-crumbs 
before roasting. They are also very nice broUed. 

ROAST QUAIL. 

Einse well and steam over boiling water until tender, then dredge with flour, 
and sroother in butter; season with salt and pepper and roast inside the stove; 
thicken the gravy; serve with green grape jelly, and garnish with parsley. 

TO ROAST PARTRIDGES. PHEASANTS, QUAILS OR GROUSE. 

Carefully cut out all the shot, wash thoroughly but quickly, using soda in the 
water; rinse again, and dry with a clean cloth. Stuff them and sew them up. 
Skewer the legs and wings to the body, larder the breast with very thin shoes of 
fat salt pork, place them in the oven, and baste with butter and water before 
taking up, having seasoned them with salt and pepper; or you can leave out the 
pork and use only butter, or cook them without stuffing. Make a gravy of the 
drippings thickened vnth browned flour. Boil up and serve in a boat. 

These are all very fine broiled, first spUtting down the back, placing on the 
gridiron the inside down, cover with a baking tin, and broil slowly at first. 
Serve with cream gravy. 

GAME PIE. 
Clean well, inside and out, a dozen small birds, quail, snipo, woodcock, etc., 
and split them in half: put them in a sauce-pan with about two quarts of water; 
when it boils, skim off all scum that rises; then add salt and pepper, a bunch of 
minced parsley, one onion chopped fine, and three whole cloves. Cut up half a 
pound of salt pork into dice, and let all boil until tender, using care that there 
be enough water to cover the birds. Thicken this with two tablespoonf ols of 
browned flotu: and let it boil up. Stir in a piece of butter as large as an egg; 
remove from the fire and let it cool. Have ready a pint of potatoes out as small 
as dice, and a rich crust made. Line the sides of a buttered pudding-dish with 
the crust; lay in the birds, then some of the potatoes, then birds and so on, \mtil 
the dish is full. Pour ovf r tke|^avy. put on the top crust, with a slit cut in tite 



fOULTXY ANS GAME. 09 

ceoh-e, and bake. The top can be ornamented with pastry leaves in a wreath 
about the edge, with any fancy design placed in the centre across the slit. 

—Rockawat/ Beach. 
SNOW BIRDS. 
One dozen thoroughly cleaned birds; stuff each with an oy?ter, put them into 
a yellow dish, and add two ounces of boiled salt pork and three raw potatoes cut 
into sUces; add a pint of oyster liquor, an ounce of butter; salt and pepper; cover 
the dish with a crust and bake in a moderate oven. 

SQUIRREL, 

They are cooked similar to rabbits, are excellent when broiled or made into 
a stew, and, in fact, are very good in all the different styles of cooking similar to 
rabbit. 

There are many species common to this country; among them the black, red, 
gray and fox. Gophers and chipmunks may also be classed as another but 
smaller .variety 

ROAST HARE OR RABBIT. 

A very close relationship exists between the hare and the rabbit, the chief 
difference being in the smaller size and shorter legs and ears of the latter. The 
manner of dressing and preparing each for the table is, therefore, pretty nearly 
the same. To prepare them for roasting, first skin, wash well in cold water and 
rinse thoroughly in lukewarm water. If a little musty from being emptied 
before they were hung up, and afterward neglected, i-ub the insides with vinegar 
and afterward remove all taint of the acid by a thorough washing in lukewarm 
water. After being well vdped with a soft cloth put in a dressing as usual, sew 
the animal up, truss it, and roast for a half or three-quarters of an hour, imtil 
well-browned, basting it constantly with butter and dredging with flour, just 
before taking up. 

•■ . To make a gravy, after the rabbits are roasted, pour nearly all the fat out of 
the pan, but do not pour the bottom or browii part of the drippings; put the pan 
over the fire, stir into it, a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and stir until the flour 
browns. Then stir in a pint of boiling water. Season the gravy with salt and. 
pepper; let it boil for a moment. Send hot to the table in a tureen with the hot 
rabbits. Serve with currant jelly. 

FRICASSEE RABBIT. 
Clean two yoimg rabbits, cut into joints, and soak in salt and water half all 
hour. Put into a sauce-pan with a pint of cold water, a buach of sweet herbs. 



90 pou-trgY AA'D game: 

an oniou finely minced, a pinch of mace, half a nutmeg, a pinch of pepper and 
half a pound of salt poik cut in small thin slices. Cover and stew until tender. 
Take out the rabbits and set in a dish where they will keep warm. Add to the 
gravy a cup of cream (or milk), two well-beaten eggs, stirred in a little at a time, 
a tablespoonful of butter, and a thickening made of a tablespoonful of flour 
and a little millc. Boil up once; remove the sauce-pan from the fire, squeeze in 
the juice of a lemon, stirring all the while, and pour over the rabbits. Do not 
cook the head or neck. 

FRIED RABBIT. 

After the rabbit has been thoroughly cleaned and washed, put it into boiling 
water, and let it boil ten minutes; drain it, and when cold, cut it into joints, dip 
into beaten egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs; season with salt and pepper. 
When all are ready, fry them in butter and sweet lard, mixed over a moderate 
fire until brown on both sides. Take them out, thicken the gravy with a spoon- 
ful of flour, turn in a cup of milk or cream; let all boil up, and turn over the 
rabbits. Servo hot with onion sauce. (See Sauces.) Garnish with sliced lemon. 

RABBIT PIE. 

This pie can be made the same as "Game Pie," excepting you scatter 
through it four hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Cover with puff paste, cut a slit 
in the middle, and bake one hour, laying paper over the top should it brown 
too fast. 

BROILED RABBITS, 

After skinning and cleaning the rabbits, wipe them dry, split them down the 
back lengthwise, pound them flat, then wrap them in letter paper well buttered, 
place them on a buttered gridiron, and broil over a clear, brisk fire, turning them 
often. When sufficiently cooked, remove the papers, lay them on a very hot 
platter, season with salt, pepper, and plenty of butter, turning them over and 
over to soak up the butter. Cover and keep hot in a warming oven until served. 

SALMI OF GAME. 

This is a nice mode of serving the rem&ins of roasted game, but when a 
superlative salmi is desired, tlie birds must be scarcely more than half roasted 
for it. In either case, carve them very neatly, and strip every particle of skin 
and fat from the legs, wings and breasts; bruise the bodies well, and put them 
with the skin and other trimmings into a very dean stew-pan. If for a simple 
and inexpensive dinner, merely add to them two sliced onions, a bay-lea^ a smaU 



POULTRY AND GAME. 91 

blade of maas sa?l a few psppercoms; then pour in a pint or more of good veal 
gravy, or strc^^ bn^ wal. boil it briskly until reduced nearly half; strain the 
gravy, pressing Mi« boass well to obtain all the flavor; skim off the fat, add a 
little cayenne and l&mon juiciSj isoat the game very gradually in it, but do not 
on any account allow it to boil; place pieces of fried bread round a dish, arrange 
tho birds in good form in the centre, give the sauce a boil, and pour it on them. 

ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

To prepare a haunch of venison for roasting, wash it slightly in tepid water, 

and dry it thoroughly by rubbing it with a clean, soft cloth. Lay over the fat 

side a large sheet of thickly buttered paper, and next a paste of flooi" and water 

about three-quarters of an inch thick; cover this again -with two-or three sheets 

of stout paper, secure the whole well with twino, and put down to roast, with a 

Uttle water, in the dripping-pan. Let the fire be clear and strong; baste the 

paper immediately with butter or clarified drippings, and roast the joint from 

three to four hours, according to its weight and quality. Doe venison will 

require half an hour less time than buck venison. About twenty minutes before 

the joint is done remove the paste and paper, baste the meat in every part with 

butter, and dredge it very lightly with flour; let it take a pale brown color, and 

serve hot with imflavored gravy made with a thickening, in a tureen and good 

currant jelly. Venison is much better when the deer has been killed in the 

autumn, when wild berries are plentiful, and it has had abundant opportunities 

to fatten upon this and other fresh food. 

— Windsor HoM, Montreal. 

BROILED VENISON STEAK. 

Venison steaks should be broiled over a clear fire turning often. It requires 
more cooking than beef. When sufficiently done, season with salt and pepper, 
pour over two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, melted with a piece of butter. 
Serve hot on hot plates. 

Delicious steaks, corresponding to the shape of mutton chops, are cut from 
the loin. 

BAKED SADDLE OF VENISON. 

Wash the saddle carefully; see that no hairs are left drted on to the outside. 
Use a saddle of venison of about ten pounds. Cut some salt pork in strips about 
two inches long, and an eighth of an inch thick, with Triiich lard the saddle 
with two rows on each side. In a large dripping-pan cut two carrots, one onion, 
and seme salt pork in thin slices; add two bay leaves, two cloves, four kemete 



98 POULTRY AND GAME. 

of allspice, half a lemon, sliced, and season with salt and pepper; place the saddle 
ot venison in the pan, with a quart of good stock, boiling hot, and a small piece 
of butter, and let it boil about fifteen minutes on top of the stove; then put it in 
a hot oven and bake, basting weU every five minutes, tmtil it is medium rare, so 
that the blood runs when cut; serve with jelly or a wine sauce. If the venison 
is desired well done, cook much longer, and use a cream sauce with it, or stir 
ct%Byr. into the venison gravy. (For cream sauce see Sauces.) 

Venison should never be roasted unless very fat. The shoiJder is a roasting 
piece, and may be done without the paper or paste. 

In ordeiing the saddle request the butcher to cut the ribs ofif pretty close, as 

the only part that is of much account is the tenderloin and thick meat that Uca 

along the backbone up to the neck. The ribs which extend from this have very 

little meat on them, but are always sold with the saddle. When neatly cut off 

they leave the saddle in a better shape, and the ribs can be put into your stock 

pot to boil for soup. 

— Windsor Hotel, MontreaL 

VENISON PIE OR PASTRY. 

The neck, breast and shoulder are the parts used for a venison pie or pastry. 
Cut the meat into pieces (fat and lean together) and put the bones and trim- 
mings into the stew-pan with pepper and salt, and water or veal broth enough 
to cover it. Simmer it till you have drawn out a good gravy. Then strain it. 

In the meantime make a good rich paste, and roll it rather thick. Cover the 
bottom and sides of a deep dish with one sheet of it, and put in your meat, 
having seasoned it with pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace. Pour in the gravj 
' which you have prepared from the trimmings, and a glass of port wine. Lay 
on the top some bits of butter rolled in flour. Cover the pie with a thick lid 
of paste and ornament it handsomely with leaves and flowers formed with a 
tin cutter. Bake two or more hours according to the siz^ Just before it is 
done, pull it forward in the oven, and brush it over with beaten egg; push it 
back and let it slightly brown. 

—Windsor Hotel, Montreal. 

VENISON HASHED. 

Cut the meat in nice small slices, and put the trimmings and bones into a 
sauce-pan with barely water enough to cover them. Let them stew for an hour. ^ 
Then strain the liquid into a stew-pan; add to it some bits of butter, rolled in. 
flour, and whatever gravy was left of the venisOn the day before. Stir in some 
eurrant jelly, and give it a bofl up. Then put in the meat, and keep it over the 



POULTRY AN'D GAMS. 9| 

fixe just long enough to warm it through; but do not allow it to boil, as it has 
been once cooked already. 

FRIED VENISON STEAK. 

Gut a breast of venison into steaks; make a quarter of a pound of butter hot 
in a pan; rub the steaks over with a mixture of a Uttle salt and pepper; dip them 
in wheat flour, or rolled crackers, and fry a rich brown; when both sides are 
done, take them up on a dish, and put a tin cover over; dredge a heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour into the butter in the pan, stir it witli a spoon until it is brown, 
without burning; put to it a small teacupful of boiling water, with a tablespoon- 
fy^^flltCurran t jeHj^dissolved into it; stir it for a few minutes, then strain it over 
(ihe meat, and serve. A glass of wine, with a tablespoonful of white sugar dis- 
solved in it, may he used for the gravy, instead of the jslly and water. Venison 
may be boiled, and served with boiled vegetables, pickled beets, etc., and sauce. 




In the selection of meat it is most essential that we understand how to choose 
it; in heef it should be a smooth, fine grain, of a dear bright red color, the fat 
White, and will feel tender when pinched with the fingers. Will also have 
abundant kidney fat or suet. The most choice pieces for roast are the sirloin, 
fore and middle ribs. 

- Teal, to be good, should have the flesh firm and dry. fine grained and of a 
delicate pinMsh color, and plenty of kidney fat; the joints stiff. 

Mutton is good when the flesh is a bright red, firm and juicy and a dose 
grain, -the fat firm and white. 

Pork: if young, the lean will break on being pinched smooth when nipped 
with the fingers, also the skin will break and dent; if the rind is rough and hard 
it is old. 

In roasting meat, allow from fifteen to twenty minutes to the pound, which 
will vary according to the thickness of the roast. A great deal of the success in 
roasting depends on the heat and goodness of the fire; if put into a cool oven it 
loses its juices, and the result is a tough, tasteless roast; whereas, if the oven is 
of the proper heat, it immediately sears up the pores of the meat and the juices 
&re retained. 

The oven should be the hottest when the meat is put into it, in order to 
quickly crisp the surface and close the pores of the meat, thereby confining its 
natm-al juices. If the oven is too hot to hold the hand in for only a moment, 
then the oven is right to receive the meat. The roast should first be washed in 
pure. water, then wiped dry with a clean dry cloth, placed in a baking-pan, 
without any seasoning; some pieces of suet or cold drippings laid under it, but 
no water should be put into the pan, for this would have a tendency to soften the 
outside of the meat. The water can never get so hot as the hot fat upon the 
surface of the meat, and the generating of the steam prevents its crispness, so 
desirable ia a roaet 



MEATS. 95 

B should be frequently basted with its own drippings which flow from the meat 
when partly cooked and well seasoned. Lamb, veal and pork should be cooked 
rather slower than beef, with a more moderate fire, covering the fat with a piece 
of paper, and thoroughly cooked till the flesh parts from the bone; and nicely 
tnrowned, without being burned. An onion sliced and put on top of a roast 
while cooking, especially roast of pork, gives a nice flavor. Remove the onion 
before serving. 

Larding meats is drawing ribbons of fat pork through the upper surface of 
the meat, leaving both ends protruding. This is accomplished by the use of » 
brding-needle, which may be procured at house-furnishing stores. 

Boiling or stewing meat, if fresh, should be put into boiling water, dosely 
covered, and boiled slowly, allowing twenty minutes to each pound, and when 
partly cooked, or when it begins to get tender, Balted,adding spices and vegetables. 

Salt meats should be covered with cold water, and require thirty minutes very 
slow boiling, from the time the water boils, for each poimd; if it is very salt, 
pomr off the first water, and put it in another of boiling water, or it may be 
soaked one night in cold water. After meat commences to boil, the pot shoulcl 
never stop simmering and always be replenished from the boiling tea-kettle. 

Frying may be done in two ways: one method, which is most generally used, 
is by putting one oimce or more (as the case requires) of beef drippings, lard or 
butter, into a frying-pan, and when at the boiling point, laying in the meat, 
cooking both sides a nice brown. The other method is to completely immerse 
the article to be cooked in sufficient hot lard to cover it, similar io frying 
doughnuts. 

Broiled meats should be placed over clear, red coals, free from smoke, giving 
out a good heat, but not too brisk or the meat will be hardened and scorched; 
but if the fire is dead, the gravy will escape, and drop upon the coals, creating a 
blaze, which will blacken and smoke the meat. Steaks and chops should be 
turned often, in order that every part should be evenly done— never sticking a 
fork into the lean part, as that lets the juices escape; it should be put into the 
outer skin or fat. When the meat is sufficiently broiled, it should be laid on & hot 
dish and seasoned. The best pieces for steak are the porter-house, sirloin, and 
rump. 

THAWING FROZEN MEAT, Etc. 

If meat, poultry, fish, vegetables, or any other article of foad, when found 
frozen, is thawed by putting it into warm water or pladng it before tije fire, it 
win most certainly spoil by that process, and be resdered xm&t. to eat. ^a only 



90 MB ATS. 

way to thaw these things is by immersing them in cold water. This should tje 
done as soon as they are brought in from market, that they may iiave time to 
be well thawed before they are cooked. If meat that has been frozen is to be 
bofled, put it on in cold water. K to be roasted, begin by setting it at a distance 
from the fire; for if it should not chance to be thoroughly thawed all through to 
the centre, placing it at first too near the fire will cause it to spoil. If it is 
expedient to thaw the meat or poultry the night before cooking, lay it in cold 
water early in the evening, and change the water at bed-time. If found crusted 
with ice in the morning, remove the ice, and put the meat in fresh cold water, 
letting it lie in it till wanted for cooking. 

Potatoes are injured by being frozen. Other veget?bles are not the worse for 
it, provided they are always thawed in cold water. 

TO KEEP MEAT FROM FLIES. 

Put in sacks, with enough straw aroimd it so the fifes cannot reach through. 

Three-fourths of a yard of yard-wide muslin is the right size for the sack. Put 

a little straw in the bottom, then put in the ham and lay straw in all around it; 

tie it tightly, and hang it in a cool, dry place. Be sure the straw is all around the 

meat, so the flies caimot reach through to deposit the eggs. (The sacking mtist 

be done early in the season before the fly appears.) Muslin lets the air in and is 

much better than paper. Thin muslin is aa good as thick, and will last for years 

if washed when, laid away when emptied. 

— National Stockman. 

ROAST BEEF. 

One very essential point, in roasting beef is to have the oven well heated 
when the beef is first put in; this causes the pores to dose up quickly, and pre- 
vents the escape of the juices. 

Take a rib piece or loin roast of seven or eight pounds. Wipe it thoroughly 
all over vidth a clean wet toweL Lay it in a dripping-pan, and baste it well with 
butter or suet fat. Set it in the oven. Baste it frequently with its own drip- 
pings, which will make it brown and tender. When partly done, season with 
salt and pepper, as it hardens any meat to salt it when raw, and draws out its 
juices, then dredge with sifted flour to give it a frothy appearance. It wiU take 
a roast of this size about two hours time to be properly done, leaving the inside 
a little rare or red— half an hour less would make the^ inside quite rare. Eemovo 
the beef to a heated dish, set where it will keep hot; then skim the drippings 
from all fat, add a teblespoonful of sifted floiu-, a little pepper and a teacupful 
of boiline water. Boil up once and sei-ve hot in a gravy boat 



MXATS. it^ 

BOILED LEG OF PORK. 

For boiBng, choose a smaD, coix^[>actr well-filled leg, and rab it well with salt; 
let it remain in pickle ffH- a week or ten days, turning and robbing it every day. 
An hour before dressing it put it into bold water for an hour, which improves 
the color. If the pork is purchased ready salted, ascertain how long the meat 
has been in pickle, and soak it accordingly. Put it into a boiGng-pot, with sufiS- 
cient cold water to cover it; let it gradually come to a boil, and remove the scura 
as it rises. Simmer it very gently until tender, and do^not allow it to bofl fast, 
or the knuckle will fall to pieces before the middle of the leg is done. Carrots, 
turnips or parsnips may be bofled with the pork, some of which should be laid 
around the dish as a-gamish. 

Tima. — A leg of pork wdghing ei^it pounds, three hours after tho water 
boQs, and to be simmered very gently. 

FRESH PORK POT-PIE. 
Boil a spare-Tib, after removing all the fat and cracking the bones, until 
tender; remove the scum as it rises, and when tender season Mrith salt and 
pepper; half an hour before time for serving the dinner thicken the gravy with 
a httle flour. Have ready another kettle, into which remove all the bones and 
most of the gravy, leaving only sufficient to cover the pot half an inch above the 
rim thatrests on the stove; put in the crust, cover tight, and boil steadily forty-five 
minutes. To prepare the crust, work into Ught dough a stnall bit of butter, 
roll it out thin, cut it in small square cakes, and lay them on the moulding-board 
until very hght. No steam should possibly escape while the crust is codking, and 
by no means allow the pot to cease boiling. 

ROAST SPARE-RIB. 
Trim off the rough ends neatly, crack the ribs across the middle, rub with 
salt and sprinkle with pepper, fold over, stuif with turkey dressing, sew up 
tightly, place in a dripping-pan with a pint of water, baste frequently, turning 
over once so as to bake both sides equally until a rich brown, 

PORK TENDERLOINS. 

The tenderloins are unlike any other part of the pork in flavor. They may 
be either fried or broiled; the latter being dryer, require to be weUbuttered before 
serving, which should be done on a hot platter before the butter becomes oily. 
Fry them in a Kttle lard, turning them to have them cooked through; when 
done, remove, and keep hot while making a gravy by dredging a Uttle flour into 



IjO MEATS. 

the hot fat; if not enough add a little butter or lard, stir until browned, and add 
a little milk or cream, stir briskly, and pour over the dish. A little Worcester- 
shire sauce may be added to the gravy if desii-ed- 

PORK CUTLETS. 

Out them from the leg, and remove the skin; trim them and beat them, and 
sprinkle on salt and pepper. Prepare some beaten egg in a pan; and on a flat 
dish a mixture of bread-crumbs, minced onion and sage. Put some lard or drip- 
pings into a frying pan over the fire, and when it boils put in the cutlets; 
having dipped every one first in the egg, and then in the seasoning. Fry them 
twenty or thirty wJirutes, turning them often. After you have taken them out 
of the frying-pan, skim the gravy, dredge in a httle flour, give it one boil, and 
then povur it on the dish round the cutlets. 

Have apple sauce to eat with them. 

Pork cutlets prepared in this manner may be stewed instead of being fried. 
Add to them a little water, and stew them slowly till thoroughly done, keepiag 
them closely covered, except when you remove the Ud to skim them. 

PORK CHOPS AND FRIED APPLES. 
Season the chops with salt and pepper and a httle powdered sage; dip them 
into bread crumbs. Fry about twenty minutes, or until they are done. Put 
them on a hot dish; pour off part of the gravy into another pan to make a 
gravy to serve with them, if you choose. Then fry apples which you have sUced 
about two-thirds of an inch thick, cutting them around the apple so that the 
core is in the centre of each piece; then cut out the core. When they are 
browned on one side and partly cooked, turn them carefully with a pan-cake 
turner, and finish cooking: dish around the chops or on a separate dish. 

FRIED PORK CHOPS. 
Fry them the same as mutton chops. If a sausage flavor is Uked, sprinkle 
over them a little powdered sage or sumnaer savory, pepper and salt, and if a 
gravy is liked, skim off some of the fat in the pan and stir in a spoonful of flour; 
stir it until free from lumps, then season with pepper and salt and tiun in a pint 
of sweet milk. Boil up and serve in a gravy boat. 

PORK PIE. 
Make a good plain paste. Take from two and a half to three pounds of the 
thick ends of a loin of pork, with very httle fat on it; cut into very thin slicea 
three inches long by two inches wide; put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish. 



MEATS. 131 

Wash and chop finely a handful of parsley, also an onion. Sprinkle a small 
portion of these over the pcork, and a little pepper and salt. Add another layer 
of pork, and over that some more of the seasoning, only be sparing of the nut- 
meg. Continue tliis till the dish is fuU. Now pour into the dish a cupful of 
stock or water, and a spoonful or two of catsup. Put a little paste around the 
edge of the dish; put on the cover, and place the pie in a rather hot oven. When 
the paste has risen and begins to take color7 place the pie at the bottom of the 
oven, with some paper over it, as it will require to be baked at least two houi-s. 
Some prefer to cook the meat until partly done, before putting into the crust. 

~Pabmr House, Cliicago. 

PORK POT-PIE. 

Take pieces of ribs of lean salt pork, also a slice or two of the fat of salt pork; 
scald it well with hot water so as to wash out the briny taste. Put it into a 
kettle and cover it vrtth cold water, enough for the required want. Cover it and 
boil an hour, season with peppei; then add half a dozen potatoes cut into 
quarters. When it all commences to boU again, drop in dumplings made from 
this recipe: 

One pint of sour or buttermilk, two eggs, well beaten, a teaspoonf ul of salt, 
a level teaspoonful of soda; dissolve in a spoonful of water as much flour as will 
make a very stiff batter. Drop this into the kettle or broth by spoonfuls, and 
oook forty minutes, closely covered. 

PORK AND BEANS. (Baked). 
Take two quarts of white beans, pick them over the m'ght before, put to soak 
In cold water; in the morning put them in fresh water and let fhem scald, then 
turn off the water and put on more, hot; put to cook with them a piece of salt 
pork, gashed, as much as would make five or six slices; boil slowly till soft (not 
mashed), then add a tablespoonful of molasses, half a teaspoonful of soda, stir 
in well, put in a deep pan, and bake one houi* and a half. U you do not like to 
use pork, salt the beans when boiling, and add a lump of butter when preparing 
them for the oven. 

BOSTON PORK AND BEANS. 
Pick over carefully a quart of small, white beans; let them soak over night 
in cold water; in the morning wash and drain in another water. Put on to boil 
in plenty of cold water with a piece of soda the size of a bean; let them come to 
a boil, then drain again, cover with water once more, and boU them fifteen 
oiinuteB, or until the skin of the beans wiD crack when taken out and blovm 



tja IfSATS. 

upon. Drain the beans again, put them into an earthen pot, adding a table- 
fipoonfal of salt; cover with hot water, place in Oae centre of a pound of .salt 
pork,, first scalding it with hot water, and scoring the rind across the top, a 
quarter of an inch apart to indicate where the slices are to be cut. Place the 
pot in the oven, and bake six hours or longer. Keep the oven a moderate heat; 
add hot water from the tea-kettle as needed, on account of evaporation, to keep 
the beans moist. When the meat becomes crisp and looks cooked, remove It, aa 
too long baking the pork destroys its soKdity. 

FRIED SALT PORK. 
Cut in thin slices, and freshen in cold water, roll in flour, and fry crisp. If 
required quickly, pour boiling water over the slices, let stand a few minutes, 
drain and roll in flour as before; drain off most of the grease from the frying- 
pan; stir in while hot one or two tablespoonfuls of flour, about half a pint of 
milk, a little pepper,.and salt if over freshened; let it boQ, and pour into a gravy 
dish. A teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley will add pleasantly to the appear- 
ance of the gravy. 

GRILLED SALT PORK. 
Take quite thin slices of the thick part of side pork, of a dear white, and 
thinly streaked with lean; hold one on a toasting fork before a brisk fire to grill; 
have at liand a dish of cold water, in which inunerse it frequently while cook- 
ing, to remove the superfluous fat and render it more delicate. Put each slice 
as cooked in a warm covered pan; when all are done, serve hot. 

FRIED HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut slices of ham quite thin, cut off the rind or skin, put them. into a hot 
frying-pan, turning them often until crisp, taking care ;aot to bum the slices; 
three minutes will cook them welL Dish them on a hot platter; then turn off 
the top of the grease, rinse out the pan, and put back the clear grease to fry the 
eggs. Break the eggs separately in a saucer, that in case a bad one should be 
among them it may not mix with the rest. Slip each egg gently into the frying- 
pan. Do not turn them while they are frying, but keep pouring some of the 
hot lard over them with a kitchen spoon; this will do them sufficiently on the 
upper side. They wiD be done enough in about three minutes; the white must 
retain its transparency so that the yolk will be seen through it. "When done, 
take them up with a tin slice, drain off the lard, and if any part of the white is 
discolored or ragged, trim it off. Lay a fried egg upon each elic6 of the ham. 
and send to table hot. 



MEATS, 1 33 

COLD BACON AND EGGS. 

An economical 'way of usitw bacon and eggs tnat have been left from a 

■ ■ ate*.*.*- . Ig. ^ J> "" •,, •-■ "'=',_ 

previous meal is to put them in a wooden bowl and chop them quite fine, add- 
ing a Uttle mashed or cold chopped potato, and a Kttle bacon gravy, if any was 
left. Mix and mould it into Uttle balls, roU in raw egg and cracker-crunibs, and 
fry in a spider the same as frying eggs; fry a Ught brown on both sides. Serve 
hot. Very appetizing. 

SCRAPPEL. 

Scrappel is a most palatable dish. Take the head, heart and any lean scraps 
of pork, and boil until the flesh slips easily from the bones. Bemove the fat, 
gristle and-bones, then chop fine. Set the liquor in which the meat was boiled 
aside until cold, take the cake of fat from the surface and return to the fire. 
When it boils, put in the chopped meat and season well with pepper and salt. 
Let it boil again, then thicken with corn-meal as you Would in making Ordinary 
corn-meal mush, by letting it dip through the fingers slowly to prevent lumps. 
Cook an hour, stirring constantly at first, afterwards putting back on the range 
in a position to boil gently. When done, pour into a long, square pan, not too 
deep, and mold. In cold weather this can be kept several weeks. Cut into 
slices when cold, and fried brown, as yOu do mush, is a cheap and dehcious 
breakfast dish. 

TO BAKE A HAM. (Corned.) 

Take a medium-sizea ham and place it to soak for ten or twelve homs. Then 
cut away the rusty part from imdemeath, wipe it dry, and cover it rather thickly 
over with a paste made of flour and water. Put it into an earthen dish, and set 
it in a modetately heated oven: When done, take off the crust carefully, and 
peel off the skin, put a frill of cut paper around the knuckle, and raspings of 
bread over the fat of the ham, or serve it glazed and garnished with cut 
vegetables. , It wiU take about four or five hours to bake it. 

Cookedin this way the flavor is much finer than when boiled. 

PIGS' FEET PICKLED. 
Take twelve pigs' feet, scrape and wash them clean, put them into a sauce- 
pan with enough hot (not boiling) water to cover them. When partly done, salt 
them. It requires four to five hours to boil them_ soft. Pack them in a stone 
crock, and pour over them spiced vinegar made hot. They will be ready to use 
ih a day or two. If you wish thfem for breakfast, split them, make~a baiter of 
(two eggs, a cup of milk, salt, & teaspoonful of butter, with flour enough to make 



134 MEATS. 

a thick batter; dip each piecei In this and fry in hot lard. Or, dip them in beaten 
egg and flour and fry. Souse is good eaten cold or warm. 

BOILED HAM. 

First remove all dust and mold, by wiping with a coarse cloth; soak it for an 
hour in cold water7thenVash it thoroughly. Cut with a sharp knife the 
hardened surface from the base and butt of the ham. Place it pver the fire in 
cold water, and let it come to a moderate boil, keeping it steadily at this point, 
allowing it to cook twenty minutes for every pound of meat. A ham weighing 
twelve pounds will require four hours to cook properly, as underdone ham is very 
unwholesome. When the ham is to be served hot, remove the skin by peeling 
it off, place it on a platter, the fat side up, and dot the surface with spots of 
black pepper. Slick in also some whole cloves. 

If the ham is to be served cold, allow it to remain in the pot until the water 
in which it was cooked becomes cold. This makes it more juicy. Serve it in 
the same manner as when served hot. 

BROILED HAM. 

Cut your ham into thin slices, which should be a little less than one quartei 
of %n inch thick. Trim very closely the skin from the upper side of each slice, 
and also trim off the outer edge where the smoke has hardened the meat. If the 
ham is very salt lay it in cold water for one hour before cooking, then wipe with 
a dry cloth. Never soak ham in tepid or hot water, as it will toughen the meat. 

Broil over a brisk fire, turning the slices conctantly. It will require about 
five minutes, and should be served the last thing directly from the gridiron, 
placed on a warm platter, with a little butter and a sprinkle of pepper on the top 
of each sUce. If ham or bacon is allowed to stand by the fire after it has been 
broiled or fried, it will speedily toughen, losing all its grateful juices. 

Cold boiled ham is very nice for broiling, and many prefer it to using the raw 
bam. 

POTTED HAM. 

To two pounds of lean ham allow one pound of fat, two teaspoonfuls of 
powdered macei half a nutmeg, grated, rather more than half a teaspoonful of 
cayenne. 

Jl/bde.— Mince the ham, fat and lean together, in the above proportion, and 
poimd it well in a mortar, seasoning it with cayenne pepper, pounded mace and 
nutmeg; put the mixture into a deep baking dish, and bake for half an hour; 
*en press it well into a stone jar, fill up the jar with clarified lard, cover it 



closely, and paste over it a piece of thick paper. K well seasoned, it will keep a 
long time in winter, and will be found very convenient for sandwiches, etc. 

BOLOGNA SAUSAGE. (Cooked.) 

Two pounds of lean pork, two pounds of lean veal, two pounds of fresh 
lean beef, two pounds of fat salt pork, one pound beef suet, ten tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sage, one ounce each of parsley, savory, marjoram and thyme, mixed. 
Two teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper, the same of black, one grated nutmeg, one 
teaspoonf ul of doves, one minced onion, s^t to taste. Chop or grind the meat 
and suet; season, aind stuff into beef skins; tie these up, prick each in several 
places to allow the escape of steam; put into hot, not boiling water, and heat 
gradually to the boiling point. ^ Cook.slowly for one hour; take out the skiris 
and lay them to dry in the sun, upon clean, sweet straw or hay. Eub the out- 
side of the skins with oU or melted butter, and place in a cool, dry cellar. If you 
wish to keep them more than a week, rub ginger or pepper on the outside, then 
wash it off before using. This is eaten without further cooking. Cut in round 
slices and lay shced lemon around the edge of the dish, as many like to squeeze 
a few drops upoii the sausage before eating. These are very nice smoked like 
hams. 

COUNTRY PORK SAUSAGES. 

Six pounds lean fresh pork, three pounds of chme fat, three tablespoonfuls ot 
salt, two of black pepper, four tablespoonfuls of pounded and sifted sage, two 
of summer savory. ' Chop the lean and fat pork finely, mix the seasoning in with 
your hands," taste to see that it has the right flavor, then put them into cases, 
either the cleaned intestines of the hog, or make long,' narrow bags of stout 
muslin, lajge enough to contain each enough sausage for a family dish. Fill 
these with the meat, dip in melted lard, and hang them in a cool, diy dark place. 
Some prefer to pack the meat in jars, pouring melted lard over it, covering the 
top, to be taken out as wanted and madg into small round cakes with the 
hands, then fried brown. Many like spices added to the seasoning— cloves, 

mace and nutm^. This is a niatter of taste. 

— Marion Harland. 

TO FRY SAUSAGES. 
Put a smaU piece of lard or butter into the frying-pan. Prick the saunages 
with a fork, lay them in the melted grease, keep moving them about, turning 
them frequently to prevent bursting; in ten or twelve minutes they will bo 
sufficiently Iji-owned and cooked. '^ Another siu-e way to prevent the cases from 
h»>-Bting is to cover them with cold water and let it come to the boiling point ; turn 



136 ttSATS. 

off the water and fry them. :. Sausages are nicely "cooked by putting them in a 
baking-pan and browning them in the oven, turning them once or twice. In 
this way you avoid all smoke and disagreeable odor. A pound will cook brown 
in ten minutes in a hot oven. 

HEAD CHEESE. 
Boil tl^e forehead, ears and feet, and nice scraps trimmed from the hams of a 
fresh pig, until the meat will almost drop from the boues. Then separate the 
meat from the boneg, put it in a large chopping-bowl, and season with pepper, 
salt, sage and summer savory. Chop it rather coarsely; put it back into the 
same kettle it was boiled in, with just enough of the liquor in which it was boiled 
to prevent its burning; warm it through thoroughly, mixing it well together. 
Now pour it into a strong muslin bag^ press the bag between two flat surfaces, 
with a heavy weight on top; when cold and solid it can be cut in slices. Good 
cold, or warmed up in vinegar. 

TO CURE HAMS AND BACON. (A Prize Recipe.) 

For each hundred pounds of haras, make a pickle of ten pounds of salt, two 
pounds of brown sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, aid one ounce of red pepper, 
and from four to four and a half gallons of water, or just enough to cover the 
hams, after being packed in a water-tight vessel, or enough salt to make a brine 
to float a fresh egg high enough, that is to say,*out of water. ^ First rub the 
hams with common salt, and lay them into a tub.*^ Take the above ingredients, 
put them, into a vessel over the fire, and heat it hot, stirring it frequently: 
remove all the scum, allow it to boil ten minutes, let it cool and pour over the 
meat. After laying in this, brine five or six weeks, take out, drain and wipe, 
and smoke from two to three weeks. Small pieces of bacon' may remain in 
this pickle two weeks, which would be sufficient. 

TO SMOKE HAMS AND FISH AT HOME. 

Take an old hogshead, stop up all the crevices, and fix a place to put a cross- 
stick near the bottom, to hang the articles to be smoked on. •; Next, in the side, 
cut a hole near the top, to introduce an iion pan filled with hickory wood sawdust 
and small pieces of green wood. Having turned the hoshead upside down, hang 
the articles upon the cross-stick, mtroduce the iron pan in the opening,and place 
a piece of red-hot iron in the pan, cover it with sawdust, and all will be complete. 
Let a large ham remsiin ten days, and keep up a good smoke.',; The best waj 
for keepmg hams is to sew them in coarse cloths,' whitewa^ed on the'outside. 



MBATSl <T37 

TOCURE'ENGLISH BACON.' 

Thjs process is called the " diy cure, '! and is considered far preferable to the 
New England or Yankee style of putting prepared brine or pickle over*the*meat.' 
First the hog should not be too large or too'fat, weighing not over two hundred 
pounds; then after it is dressed and cooled cut it up into proper pieces; allow to 
every hundred pounds a mi^rture of four quarts of common salt, one quarter of 
a pound of saltpetre and four pounds of sugar. ^ Rub this preparation thoroughly 
over and into each piece, then place them into a tight tub or suitable cask; there 
will al)rinG {«rm of itself, from the juices of the meat, enough at least to baste 
ifwUh, which should.be done two orjthree times a week; turning each piece 
overy time. 

In smokihg this bacon,' the sweetest flavor is" derived from black birch chips, 

but if these are not to be had, the next best wood is hickory; the smoking with 

corn-cobs imparts a rank flavor to this bacon, which is very distasteful to English 

people visiting this country. It requires three, weeks or a month to smoke this 

bacon -properly. 

— Berkshire Recipe. 

TO TRY OUT LARD. 

Skin the leaf lard carefully, cut it intosmall pieces, and put it into a kettle 
or sauce-pan; pour in a cupful of water to prevent burning; set it over the fire 
where it will melt slowly. Stir it frequently and let it simmer until nothing 
remains but brown scraps. Remove the scraps with a perforated skimmer, 
throw in a little salt to settle the fat^ and, when clear, strain through a coarse 
cloth into jars. Remember to watch it constantly, stirring it from the bottom 
until the salt is thrown in to settle it; then set it back on the range mitil clear. 
If it scorches it gives it a very bad flavor. 



Sauces nrib Bressinas. 

DRAWN BUTTER 

Melted butter is the foundation of most of the common sauces. Have a 
covered sauce-pan for this purpose. One lined with porcelain will be best. Take 
a quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter, cut it up, aud mix with it about 
one tablespoonful of flour. When it is thoroughly mixed, put it into the sauce- 
pan, and add to it half a teacupf ul of hot water. Cover the sauce-pan and set it 
in a large tin pan of boiling water. Shake it round continually (always moving 
it the same way) till it is entirely melted ajid begins to simmer. Then let it rest 
tin it boils up. 

If you set it on too hot a fire, it will be oily. 

If the butter and floiu- are not well mixed, it will be lumpy. 

If you put too much water, it wll be tliin and poor. All these defects are to 
be carefully avoided. 

In melting butter for sweet or pudding sauce, you may use milk instead of 
water 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

The raw yolks of two. eggs, half a teacupful of pure olive oil, three tablespoon. 
tola of vinegar, one of made mustard, one teaspoonful of sugar, a quarter of a tea* 
spoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, one of onion juice, one tablespoonful 
of chopped capers, one of chopped cucumber pickle. Put together the same as 
mayonnaise dressing, adding«the chopped ingredients the last thing. 

This sauce is good for fried. or boiled fish, boiled tongue, fish salad, and may 
be used with fried and broiled meats. 

EGG SAUCE, OR WHITE SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour with half a teacup of warm butter 
Place over the fire a sauce-pan containing a pint of sweet milk and a salt-spoon, 
of salt, and a dash of white pepper; when it reaches the boiUng point, add tbe 
butter and floiu-, stirring briskly until it thickens and becomes like cream. Have 
ready three cold, hard-boiled eggs, sliced and chopped, add them to the sauce; 
let them heat through thoroughly, and serve in a boat. If you have plenty of 
cream, use it and omit the butter. By omitting the eggs, you have tbe same as 
"White Sauce." 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Take a pint of oysters and heat them in their own liquor long enough to 
come to a boil, or imtil they begin to rufile. SMdi out the oysters into a warm 



SAUCES AND DRESSINGS. 1 39 

dish, put into the liquor a teacup of milk or cream, two tablespooufuls of cold 
butter, a pinch of cayenne and salt; thicken with a tablespoonful of flour stirred 
to a paste, boil up and then add the oysters. 

Oyster sauce is used for fish, boiled turkey chickens and boiled white meats 
of most kinds. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Put the coral and spawn of a boiled lobster into a mortar, with a tablespoonful 
of butter; pound it to a smooth mass, then rub it through a sieve; melt nearly a 
quarter of a pound of sweet butter, with a wineglass of water or vinegar; add 
a teaspoonful of made mustard, stir in the coral and spawn, and a httle salt and' 
pepper; stir it until it is smooth, and serve. Some of the meat of the lobster J 
may be chopped fine, and stirred into it. 

SAUCE t^OR SALMON AND OTHER FISH. 
One cupful of milk heated to a boQ and thickened with a tablespoonful of 
corn-starch previously wet up with cold water, the liquor from the salmon, one 
great spoonful of butter, one raw egg beaten light, the juice of half a lemon, 
mace and cayenne pepper to taste. Add the egg to thickened milk when you 
have stiiTed in the butter and liquor; take from the fire, season and let it stand 
in hot water three minutes, covered. Lastly put in lemon juic6 and turn out 
immediatel}'. Pour it all over and around the salmon. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED COD. 

To one giU of boiUng water add as much milk; stir into this while boiling 
two tablespooufuls of butter gradually, one tablespoonful of flour wet up with 
cold water; as it thickens, the chopped yolk of one boiled egg, and one raw egg 
beaten light. Take directly from the fire, season with pepper, salt, a Uttle 
chopped parsley and the juice of one lemon, and set covered in boiling water 
(but not over fire) five minutes, stirring occasionally Pour part of the sauce 
over fish when dished; the rest in a boat. Serve mashed potatoes with it. 

FISH SAUCE. No. 2. 
Make a pint of drawn butter, add one tablespoonful of pepper sauce or Wor- 
cestershire sauce, a little salt and six hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Pour over 
boiled fish and garnish with sliced lemon. Very nice. 

FISH SAUCE. No. 3. 
Half a cupful of melted butter, half a cupful of vinegar, two tablespooufuls 
01 icnnato catsup, salt, and a tablespoonful of made mustard. Boil ten minutes. 

ID 



C40 SAUCES AND DRESSINGS. 

CELERY SAUCE. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with half a teacupful of butter; have ready 
a pint of boiling milk; stir the flour and butter into the mUk; take three heads 
of cdery, cut into small bits, and boil for a few minutes in water, which strain 
off; put the celery into the melted butter, and keep it stirred over the fire for 
five or ten minutes. This is very nice with boiled fowl or turkey. Another 
way to make celery sauce is: Boil a head of celery until quite tender, then put 
it through a sieve,; put the yolk of an egg in a basin, and beat it well with the 
strained juice of a lemon; add the celery and a couple of spoonful? of liquor to 
which the turkey was boiled, salt and pepper to taste. 

CAPER SAUCE. 
Chop the capers a very little, unless quite small; make half a pint of drawn 
butter, to which add the capers, with a large spoonful of the juice from th« 
bottle in which they are sold; let it just simmer, and serve in a tureen. Nastur 
tiums much resemble capers in taste, though larger, and may be used, and, in 
fact, are preferred by many. They are grown on a cUmbing vine, and are culti- 
vated for their blossom and for pickling. When used as capers they should b« 
chopped more. If neither capers nor nasturtiums are at hand, some pickles chop 
ped up form a very good substitute in the sauce. 

BREAD SAUCE. 
One cup of stale bread-crumbs, one onion, two ounces of butter, pepper and 
salt; a Uttle mace. Cut the onion fine, and boil it in milk till quite soft; then 
strain the mUk on to the stale bread-crumbs, and let it stand an hour. Put il 
in a sauce-pan with the boiled onion, pepper, salt and mace. Give it a boil, and 
serve in sauce tureen. This sauce can also be used for grouse, and is very nice. 
Roast partridges are nice served with bread-crumbs, fried brown in butter, with 
cranberry or currant jelly laid beside them in the platter. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Take a quart can of tomatoes, put it over the fire in a stew-pan, put in one 
slice of onion, and two cloves, a little pepper and salt; boil about twenty minutes; 
then remove from the fire and strain it through a sieve. Now melt in another 
pan an ounce of butter, and as it melts, sprinkle in a tablespoonf ul of flour; stir 
it until it browns and froths a little. Mix the tomato pulp with it, and it ia 
ready for the table. 

Excellent for mutton chojjs, roast beef, etc. 



SAUCES AND DRESS/NGS. 141 

ONION SAUCE. 
Work together until light a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and half a cupful 
of butter, and gradually add two cups of boihng milk; stir constantly until it 
comes to a boil; then stir into that four tender boiled onions that have been 
chopped fine. Salt and pepper to taste. Serve with boUed veal, poultry or 
mutton. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Boil together two dozen ripe tomatoes, three small green peppers, or a half 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one onion cut fine, half a cup of sugar. Boil 
until thick; then add two cups of vinegar; then strain the whole, set back on the 
fire and add a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful each of ginger, allspice, 
cloves and cinnamon; boil all five minutes, remove and seal in glass bottles. 
This is very nice. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take fresh young spearmint leaves, stripped from the stems; wash and drain 
them, or dry on a cloth. Chop very fine, put in a gravy boat, and to three 
tablespoonfuls of mint put two of white sugar; mix and let it stand a few 
minutes, then pour over it six tablespoonfuls of good cider or white- wine vinegar. 
The sauce should be made some time before it is to be used, so that the flavor of 
the mint may be well extracted. Fine with roast lamb. 

SHARP BROWN SAUCE. 
Put in a sauce-pan one tablespoonful of chopped onion, three tablespoonfuls 
of good cider vinegar, six tablespoonfuls of water, three of tomato catsup, a Uttle 
pepper and salt, half a cup of melted, butter, in which stir a tablespoonful of 
sifted flour; put all together and boil until it thickens. This is most excellent 
with boiled meats, fish and poultry. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 
Put three tablespoonful&of butter in a sauce-pan; add three tablespoonfuls of 
sifted flour, quarter of a teaspoonful of nutmeg, ten pepper-corns, a teaspoonful 
of salt; beat all weU together; then add to this, three sUces of onion, two slices of 
carrot, two sprigs of parsley, two of thjrme, a bay leaf and half a dozen mush- 
rooms cut up. Moisten the whole with a pint of stock or water and a cup of 
sweet cream. Set it on the stove and cook slowly for half of an hour, watching 
closely that it does not bum; then strain through a sieve. Most excellent with 
roast veal, meats and fish. St. Charlet Hotel, JV"«o> Orleans. 



ii4* SAUCES AND DJiESSINGS^ 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCEi 
Make a teacupful of drawn butter; add to it the ]uice of a lemon, Jtwo tablet 
spoonfuls of minced onion, three tablespoonfuls of ^chopped parsley, a teaspoon- 
Eul of powdered thyme or summer savory, a pinch of cayenne and salt. Smunei 
over the fire, and stir.welL, Excellent with all kinds of fish. 

WINE SAUCE FOR GAME. 

Half a glass of currant jelly, half a glass of port wine, half a glass of water, 
» tablespoonf ul of cold butter, a teaspoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon. 
» pinch of cayenne pepper and three cloves. Simmer all together a few min- 
ates, adding the wine after it is strained. A few spoonfuls of the gravy from 
;he game may be added to it. This sauce is especially nice with venison. 

—Tabor House, Denver, 



HOCLANDAISEISAUCE. 

Half a teacupful of butter, the juice of half a lemon, the yolk of two eggs, ^ 

Bpeck of cayenne pepper, half a cupful of boiling >water, half a teaspoonful oi 

salt; beat the butter to a cream, add the yolks of eggs one by one; then the lemou- 

juice, pepper and salt, beating all thoroughly; place the bowl in which is the 

mixture in a sauce-pan of boiling water; beat with an egg-beater imtil it begins 

to thicken which wiU be in about a minute; then add the boihng water, beating aU 

the time; stir uijtil it begins to thicken like soft custard; stir a few minutes after 

taking from the fire; be careful not to cook it too long. This is very nice with 

baked fish. 

-Miss Parloa. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

Three tablespoonf uls of butter, one Onion, one bay leaf, one sprig of celery, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, half a cupful of currant jelly," one' tablespoonf ul 
of flour, one pint of stock, salt, pepper. Cook the butter and onion until the 
latter begins to color. Add the flour and herbs. Stir until brown; add the 
stock, and simmer twenty minutes. Strain, and skim off all the fat. Add the 
jelly, and stir over the fire until it is melted. Serve with game. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Delicious sauce for meats^is made in this way: Slice a large onion, and fry in 

butter till it is brown; then cover the onion with rich brov^n gravy, which is left 

from roast beef; add mustard, salt and pepper, and if you choose a tablespoonful 

of Worcestershire sauce; let this b<Hl^ up, and if too thi<^, thin it with a little 



SA&CJSiS AJV'U J>JtESS/M!& 143 

stock or gravy, 6r even a little Tiot water with butter. Pour this when dona 
throngh a fine sieve. Of course a larger quantity can he prepared at once than 
is mentioned here. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
Wash a pint of small button mushrooms, remove the stems and outside skins, 
Stew them slowly in veal gravy or milk or cream, adding an onion, and season- 
ing vrith pepper, salt and a little butter rolled in flour. Their flavor will be 
heightened by salting a few the night before, to extract the juice. In dressing 
mushrooms, only those of a duU pearl color on the outside and the under part 
tinged with pale pink should be selected. If there is a poisonous one among 
them, the onion in the sauce will turn black. In such a case throw the whole 
away. Used for poultry, beef or fish, 

APPLE SAUCE. 

"When you wish to serve apple sauce with meat prepare it in this way: Cook 
the apples until they are very tender, then stir them thoroughly so there wiU be 
no lumps at all; add the. sugar and a little gelatine dissolved in warm water, a 
tablespoonful in a pint of sauce; pour the sauce into bowls, and when cold it wil^ 
be stiff like jeUy, anil can be turned out on a plate. Cranberry sauce can b^ 
treated in the same way. Many prefer this to plain stewing. 

Apples cooked irt the following way look very pretty on a tea-table, and ara 
appreciated by the palate. Select firm, round greenings; pare neatly arid cut iq 
halves; place in a shallow stew-pan with sufiScient boDing water to cover them, 
and a cupful, of sugar to every six apples. Each half should cook on the bottom 
of the pan, and be removed from the others so as not to injure its shape. Stew 
dowly until the pieces are very tender; remove to a dish carefully; boil the 
syrup half an hour longer; pour it over the apples and eat cold. A few pieces 
of lemon boiled in the syrup adds to the flavor. ' These sauces are a fine accom, 
paniment to roast pork or roast goose. 

CIDER APPLE SAUCE. 

Boil four quarts of new cider until it is reduced to two quarts, then put 
Into it enough pared and quartered apples to fill the kettle; let the whole 
Btew over a moderate fire four hours; add cinnamon if liked. This sauce is 
irery fine with almost any kind of meat. 

OLD-FASHIONED APPLE SAUCE. 
Pare aud chop a dozen medium-sized apples, put them in a deep pudding-dish, 
Sprinkle over them a heaping coffee-cupful of sugar and one of water. Place 



«44 SAOCJSS AND DXSSS/NGS. 

tbem m the oven and bake slowly two hours or more, or untQ they are a deep 
red brown; quite as nice as preserves. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 
One quart of cranberries, two cupfuls of sugar, and a pint of water. Wash 
the cranberries, then put them on the fire with the water, but in a covered sauce- 
pan. Let them simmer until each cranberry bursts open; then remove the cover 
of the sauce-pan, add the sugar and let them all boil for twenty minutes without 
the cover. The cranberries must never be stirred from the time they are placed 
on the fire. This is an unfailing recipe for a most delicious preparation of cran- 
berries. Very fine with turkey and game. 

APPLE OMELET. 
Apple omelet, to be served with broiled spare-rib or roast pork, is very deli- 
cate. Take nine lafge, tart apples, four eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon* 
ful of butter; add cinnamon or other spices to suit your taste; stew the apples 
till they are very soft; mash them so that there will be no lumps; add the butter 
and sugar while they are still warm; but let them cool before putting in the 
beaten eggs; bake this till it is brown; you may put it all in a shallow pudding- 
dish or in two tin plates to bake. Very good. 

FLAVORED VINEGARS. 

Almost all the flavorings used for meats and salads may be prepared in 
vinegar with little trouble and expense, and will be found useful to impart an 
acid to flavors when lemons are not at hand. 

Tarragon, sweet basil, bumet, green mint, sage, thyme, sweet-marjoram, 
etc., may be prepared by putting three ounces of either of these herbs, when in 
blossom, .into one gallon of sharp vinegar; let stand ten days, strain off dear, and 
bottle for use. 

Celery and cayenne may be prepared, using three ounces of the seed as above. 

CUCUMBER VINEGAR. 

Ingredients. — ^Ten large cucumbers, or twelve smaller ones, one quart of 
rinegar, two onions, two shalots, one tablespoonful of salt, two tablespoonfols 
[>f pepper, a quarter of a teaspoonf ul of cayenne. 

Mode. — Pare and slice the cucumbers, put them in a stone jar, or wide- 
mouthed bottle, with the vinegar; slice the onions and shalots, and add them, 
with all the other ingredients, to the cucimibeTS. Let it stand four or five days; 
bofl it all up, and when cold, strain the liquor through a piece of muslin, and 



SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 14S 

store it away in small bottles well sealed. This vinegar is a very nice addition to 
gravies, hashes, etc., as v^ell as a great improvement to salads, or to eat with 
cold meat 

CURRY POWDER. 

To make curry powder, take one omice of ginger, one oimce of mustard, one 
ounce of pepper, three ounces of coriander seed, three ounces of turmeric, half 
an ounce of cardamoms, one-quarter ounce of cayenne pepper, one-quarter ounce 
of dnnamon, and one-quarter oimce of cummin seed. Pound all these ingre- 
dients very fine in a mortar; sift them and cork tight in a bottle. 

This can be had already prepared at most druggists, and it is much less 
trouble to pin'chase it than to make it at home. 

CURRY SAUCE. 
One tablespoonf ul of butter, one of floiu:, one teaspoonful of curry powder, 
one large shce of onion, one large cupful of stock, salt and pepper to taste. Cut 
the onion fine, and fry brown in the butter. Add the fiour and curry powder. 
Stir for one minute, add the stock and season with the salt and pepper. Simmer 
five minutes; then strain and serve. This sauce can be served with a broil or 
%auU of meat or fish. 

TO BROWN BUTTER. 

Put a lump of butter into a hot frying-pan, and toss it about imtil it browns. 
Stir brown four into it imtil it is smooth and begins to boil. Use it for coloring 
gravies, and sauces for meats. 

TO BROWN FLOUR. 

Spread flour upon a tin pie-plate, set it upon the stove or in a vtry hot oven, 
and stir continually after it begins to color, imtQ it is brown all through. 

Keep it always on hand; put away in glass jars covered closely. It is excel- 
lent for coloring and thickening many dishes. 

TO MAKE MUSTARD. 

Boil some vinegar; take four spoonfuls of mustard, half of a teaspoonful ot 
BOgar, a salt-spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter; mix well. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Three tablespoonf uls of mustard, one tablespoonful of granulated sugar, well 
worked together, then beat in an egg until it is smooth; add one teacupful of 
vinegar, a little at a time, working it all smooth; then set on the stove and cook 



^14* SAl/CES AND DRESSINGS. 

thtee or four minutes, stirring all the time; when cool, add one tablespoonfol of 

the best olive oil, taking care to get it all thoroughly worked in and smooth. 

You will find this veiy nice. 

'—Mrs. D. RiegeL 

KITCHEN PEPPER. 

Mix one ounce of ground ginger, half an ounce each of black pepper, ground 

cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, and six 

ounces of eslt. Keep in a tightly corked bottle. 

— The Caterer. 

PREPARED COCOANUT (For Pies. Puddings, &c.) 

To prepare cocoanut for future use; first cut a hole through the meat at one 
of the holes in the end, draw off the milk, then loosen the meat by pounding the 
nut well on all sides. Crack the nut and take out the meat, and place the pieces 
of meat in a cool open oven over night, or for a few hours, to diy; then grate it. 
If there is more grated than is needed for present use, sprinkle it with sugar, 
and spread out in a cool dry place. When dry enough put away in dry cans ot 
bottles. Will keep for weeks. 

SPICES. 

Ginger is the root of a shrub first known in Asia, and now cultivated in the 
West Indies and Sierra Leone. The stem grows three or four feet high, and 
dies every year. There are two varieties of ginger — the white and black- 
caused by taking more or less care in selecting and preparing the roots, which 
are always dug in winter, when the stems are withered. The white is the best. 

CSnnamoh is the inner bark of a beautiful tree, a native of Ceylon, that grows 
from twenty to thirty feet in height and Uves to be centuries old. 

Cloves. — ^Native to the Molucca Islands, and so called from resemblance to 
a nail (clavis). The East Indians call them " changkek," from the Chinese " te- 
chengkia " (fragrant nails). They grow on a strait, smooth-barked tree, about 
forty feet high. Cloves are not fruits, but blossoms, gathered before they are 
quite unfolded. 

Allspice. — A berry so called because it combines the flavor of several spices 
—grows abundantly on the allspice or bayberry tree; native of South America 
and the West Indies. A single tree has been known to produce one hundred 
and fifty pounds of berries. They are purple when ripe. 

Black pepper is made by grinding the dried berry of a climbing vine, native 
to the East Indies. Wliite pepper is obtained from the same berries, freed from 



SAUCES AND DRESSINGS, 114 J 

their husk or rind. Red or cayenne pepper is obtained by grinding the scarlet pod 
or seed-vessel of a tropical plant that is now cultivated in all parts of the world. 
Nutmeg is the kernel of a small, smooth, pear-shaped fruit that grows on a 
tree in the Molucca Islands, and other parts of the East. The trees commence 
bearing in the seventh year, and continue fruitful until they are seventy or 
eighty years old. Around the nutmeg or kernel is a bright, brown shell. This 
shell has a soft scarlet covering, which, when flattened out and dried, is known 
\s mace. The best nutmegs are sohd, and omit oil when pricked with a pin. 

HERBS FOR WINTER. 

To prepare herbs for winter use, such as sage, summer savory, thyme, mint 
br any of the sweet herbs, they should be gathered fresh in their season, or 
procure them from the market. Examine them well, throwing out all poor 
sprigs; then wash and shake them; tie into small bundles, and tie over the 
bundles a piece of netting or old lace, (to keep off the dust); hang up in a warm, 
dry place, the leaves downward. In a few days the herb will be thoroughly di-y 
and brittle. Or you may place them in a cool oven, and let them remain in it 
until perfectly dry. Then pick off all the leaves, and the tender tops of the 
stems; put them in a clean, large-mouthed bottle that is perfectly dry. When 
wanted for use, rub fine, and sift through a sieve. It is much bettpi to put 
them in bottles as soon as dried, as long exposure to the air causes them to lose 
strength and flavor, 

MEATS AND THEIR ACCOMPANIMENTS. 

With roast beef: tomato sauce, grated horse-radish, mustard, cranberry sauce, 

pickles. 
With roast pork: apple sauce, cranberry sauce. 
With roast veal: tomato sauce, mushroom sauce, onion sauci and cranberr} 

sauce. Horse-radish and lemons are good. 
With roast mutton: currant jelly, caper sauce. 
With boiled mutton: onion sauce, caper sauce. 
With boiled fowls: bread sauce, onion sauce, lemon sauce, cranberry sauce, jeUiesL 

Also cream sauce. 
With roast lamb: mint sauce. 
With roast turkey: cranberry sauce, currant jelly. 
With boiled turkey: oyster sauce. 

Vith venison or wild ducks: cranberry sauce, currant Jelly, or currant jellj 
wai'Bjbd with j^jort wine. 



148 SAUCES AND DJUSSS/NGS. 

With roast goose: apple sauce, cranberry sauce, grape or currant jelly. 
With boiled fresh mackerel: stewed gooseberries. 
With boiled blue fish: white cream sauce, lemon sauce. 
With broiled shad: mushroom sauce, parsley or egg sauce. 
With fresh salmon: green peas, cream sauce. 

Pickles are good with all roast meats, and in fact are suitable accompaniments 
to all kinds of meats in general 

Spinach is the proper accompaniment to veal; green peas to lamb. 

Lemon juice makes a very grateful addition to nearly all the insipid membera 
of the fish kingdom^ Slices of lemon cut into very small dice and stirred into 
drawn butter and allowed to come to the boiling point, served with fowls, is a 
fine accompaniment. 

VEGETABLES APPROPRIATE TO DIFFERENT DISHES. 

Potatoes are good with all meats. With fowls they are nicest mashed. 
Bweet potatoes are most appropriate with roast meats, as also are onions, wintei 
squash, cucumbers and asparagus. 

Carrots, parsnips, turnips, greens and cabbage are generally eaten with 
boiled meat, and com, beets, peas and beans are appropriate to either boiled 01 
roasted meat. Mashed turnip is good with roast pork and with boiled meats, 
Tomatoes are good with almost every kind of meats, especially with roasts. 

WARM DISHES FOR BREAKFAST. 

The following of hot breakfast dishes may be of assistance in knowing whal 
to provide for the comfortable meal called breakfast. 

Broiled beef steak, broiled chops, broiled chickeii, broiled fish, broiled quail 
on toast, fried pork tenderloins, fried pig's feet, fried oysters, fried clams, fried 
liver and bacon, fried chops, fried pork, ham and eggs fried, veal cutlets breaded, 
sausages, fricasseed tripe, fricasseed kidneys, turkey or chicken hash, corn beef 
hash, beef croquettes, codfish balls, creamed codfish, stewed meats ,on toast, 
poached eggs on toast, omelettes, eggs boiled plain, and eggs cooked in any of 
the various styles. 

VEGETABLES FOR BREAKFAST. 

Potatoes in any of the various modes of cooking, also stewed tomatoes, stew- 
ed com, raw radishes, cucumbers sliced, tomatoes sliced raw, water cress, lettuce. 

To be included with the breakfast dishes: oatmeal mush, cracked wheat, 
hominy or corn-meal mush, these with cqeam, milk and sugar or syrup. 



SAUCES AND DRESSINGS— SALADS. 1 49 

Then numberless varieties of bread can be selected, in form of rolls, flitters, 
muffins, waffles, corn-cakes, griddle-cakes, etc., o£c. 

For beverages, coffee, chocolate and cocoa, or tea if one prefers it; these are 
bU suitable for the breakfast table. 

When obtainable always have a vase of choice flowers on the breakfast ta- 
ble; also some fresh fruit, if convenient. 



Satabs. 

Everything in the make-up of a salad should be of the freshest material, the 
vegetables crisp and fresli, the oil or butter the very best, meats, fowl and fish 
well cooked, pure cider or white- wine vinegar — ^in fact, every ingredient first- 
class, to insure success. 

The vegetables used in salad are: Beet-root, onions, potatoes, cabbage, lettuce, 
celery, cucumbers, lentils, haricots, winter ctcss, peas, French beans, radish, 
cauliflower, — ^all these may be used judiciously in salad, if properly seasoned, 
according to the following directions: 

Chervil is a delicious salad herb, invariably found in all salads prepared by a 
French gourmet. No man can be a true epicure who is unfamiliar with this 
excellent herb. It may be procured from the vegetable stands at Fulton a,nd 
Washington markets the year round. Its leaves resemble parsley, but are more 
divided, and a few of them added to a breakfast salad give a delightful flavor. 

Chervil vinegar. — A few drops of this vinegar added to fish sauces or salads 
is excellent, and well repays the little trouble taken in its preparation. Half fill 
a bottle with fresh or dry chervil leaves; fill the bottle with good vinegar and 
heat it gently by placbg it in warm water, which bring to boiling point; remove 
from the fire; whrai cool cork, and in two weeks it wiU be ready for use. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Put the yolks of four fresh raw eggs, with two hard-boiled ones, into a cold 
bowl. Rub these as smoooth as possible before introducing the oil; a good 
measvu-e of oil is a tablespoonful to each yolk of raw egg. All the ast consists 
in introducing the oil by degrees, a few drops at a time. You can never make 
& good salad without taking plenty of time. When the oQ is well mixed, and 
assumes the appearance of jelly, put in two heaping teaspoonfuls of dry table 
B^t, one of pepper, and one of made mustard. Never put m salt and pepper 



150 SAUCES AND DIiESSJNGS—SALAJ3S. 

before this stage of the process, because the salt and pepper would coagulate the 
albumen of the eggs, and you could not get the dressing smooth. Two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar added gradually. 

The Mayonnaise should be the thickness of thick cream when finished, but if 
it looks like curdling when mixing it, set in the ice-box or in a cold place for 
about forty minutes or an hour, then mix it again. It is a good idea to place it in 
a pan of cracked ice while mixing. 

For lobster salad, use the coral, mashed and pressed through a sieve, then 
add to the above. 

Salad dressing should be kept in a separate bowl in a cold place, and not 
mixed with the salad until the moment it is to be served, or it may lose its 
cnspness and freshness. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. (Cabbage Salad.) 

Beat up two eggs, with two tablespoonf uls of sugar add a piece of butter the 
size of half an egg, a teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper, and lastly a teacup 
of vinegar. Put all these ingredients into a dish over the fire, and cook like a 
soft custard. Some think it improved by adding half a cupful of thick sweet 
cream to this dressing; in that case use less vinegar. Either way is very fine. 

SALAD CREAM DRESSING. No. X. 

One cup fresh cream, one spoonful fine flour, the whites of two eggs beaten 
stiff, three spoonfuls of vinegar, two spoonfuls of salad oil or soft butter, two spoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one half teaspoonful pepper, one 
teaspoonful of made mustard. Heat cream almost to boiling; stir in the flour, 
previously wet with cold milk; boil two minutes, stirring all the time; add sugar 
and take from fire. When half cold, beat in whipped whites of egg; set aside 
to cool. When quite cold, whip in the oil or butter, pepper, mustard and salt; 
if the salad is ready, add vinegar, and pour at once over it. 

CREAM DRESSING. No. 2. 

Two tablespoonfuls o^ whipped sweet cream, two of sugar, and four of vine- 
gar; beat well and pour over the cabbage, previously cut very fine and seasoned 
with salt 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 
Mix one saltspoon of pepper with one of salt; add tlu-ee tablespoonfuls ol 
ohve oil, and one even tablespoonful of onion, scraped fine; then one tablespoon- 



SA UC£S AND DRESSINGS^SALADS^ 1 5 1 , 

fulof yinegar; when well mixed, pour the mixture over your salad, and stir all 
tiU well mingled. 

The merit of a salad is. that it should be cool, fresh and crisp. For vegetables,! 
use only the delicate white stalks of celery, the small heart-leaves of lettuce, or| 
tende::est stalks and leaves of the white cabbage. Keep the vegetable portions 
crisp and fresh, imtil the time for serving, when add the meat. _ For chicken 
and fish salads, use the Mayonnaise dressing. . For simple vegetable salads, the 
French dressing is most appropriate, using onion rather than garlic, 

MIXED SUMMER SALAD. 
Three heads of lettuce, two teaspoonfuls of green mustard leaves; a handful 
of water-cresses; five tender radishes; one cucumber; three hard-boiled eggs; two 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar; one teaspoonfulof salt; oneteaspoonful of pf/perj 
one teaspoonful of made mustard; one teacupful of vinegar; half ateacupful 
of oiL 

Mix all well together, and serve with «i lump of ice in the middle. 

— -"Cmimon Sense in the Household." 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil the fowls tender, and remove all the fat, gristle and skin; mince the 
meat in small pieces, but do not hash it. To one chicken put twice and a half 
its weight in celery, cut in pieces of about one-quarter of an inch; mix thori 
oughly, and set it in a cool place, — the ice chest. 

In the meantime prepare a " Mayonnaise dressing," and when ready for the 
table pour this dressing over the chicken and celery, tossing and mixing it thor , 
oughly. Set it in a cool place until ready to serve. Garnish with celery tips, on 
cold hard-boiled eggs, lettuce-leaves, from the heart, cold boiled beets or capers; 
olives. 

Crisp cabbage is a good substitute for celery; ^en celery is not to be had'' 
use celery vinegar in the dressing. Turkey makes a fine salad. 

LOBSTER SALAD. No. i. 
Prepare a sauce with the coral of a fine, new lobster, boiled fresh for about 
half an hour. Pound and rub it smooth, and mix very gradually with a dress- 
ing made from the yolks of two haxd-bofled e^s, a tablespoonful of made mus- 
tard, thi«e of salad oil, two of vinegar, one of white powdered sugar, a small 
^^aspoonful o£ salt, as much black pepper, apindi <rf cayenne 'and two fresh 
yolks of eggs. Jle^ fill your salad bowl with some shred lettuce,' the better 
part of two, leaving the small curled centre to garnish your dish with. Mingle 



ISa SAVCSS AND DJiBSS/NGS—SAlAOS. 

with this the flesh of ycur lobster, torn, broken or cut into bits seasoned with 
salt and pepper and a smaD portion of the dressing. Pour over the whole the 
rest of the dressing; put you*- lettuce-hearts down the centre and arrange upon 
the sides sUces of haxd-boUed eggs. 

LOBSTER SALAD. No. 2. 

Using canned lobsters, take a can, skim off all the oil on the surface, and 
chop the meat up coarsely on a flat dish. Prepare the . same way six heads of 
celery; iniv a teaspoonful of mustard into a smooth pasta with a Uttle vinegar; 
add two fresh yolks of eggs; a tablespoonful of butter, creamed, a small tea-' 
spoonful of s:lt, the same of pepper, a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, a gill of vinegar, and the mashed yolks of two hard-boUed eggs. Mix a 
small portion of the dressing with the celery and meat, and turn the remainder 
over all. Garnish with the green tops of celery, and a hard -boiled egg, cut into 
thin rings. 

FISH SALAD. 

Take a fresh white fish o:< trout, boil and chop it, but not too fine; put with 
the same quantity of chopped cabbage, celery or lettuce; season the same aa 
chicken salad. Garnish with the tender leaves of the heart of lettuce. 

OYSTER SALAD, 

Drain the Uquor from a quart of fresh oysters. Put them in hot vinegar 
enough to cover them placed over the. fire; let them remain until pJwmp, but not 
cooked; then drop them immediately in cold water, drain off, and mix with 
them two pickled cucumbers cut fine, also a quart of celery cut in dic« pieces, 
some seasoning of salt and pepper. Mix all well together, tossing up with a 
silver fork. Pour over the whole a "Mayonnaise dressing." Garnish with 
celery tips and slices of hard-boiled eggs arranged tastefully. 

DUTCH SALAD. 

Wash, spUt and bone a dozen anchovies, and roU each one up; wash, split 
and Bone one herring, and cut it up into small pieces; cut up into dice an equal 
quantity of Bologna or Lyons sausage, or of smoked ham and sausages; abo, 
an equal quantity of the breast of cold roast fowl, or veal; add likewise, always 
in the same quantity, and cut intojdice, beet-roots, pickled cucumbers, cold boiled 
potatoes cut in larger dice, and in quantity according to taste, but at least thrice 
as much potato as anything else; add a tablespoonful of capers, the yolks and 
whites of some hard-boUed eggs, minced separately,, and a dozen stoned olives; 



SAUCES AND VXESSINGS—SALADS. 153 

mix all the ingredients well together, reserving the olives and anchovies to orna- 
ment the top of the bowl; beat up together oil and Tarragoh vinegar with white 
pepper and French mustard to taste; pour this over the salad and serve. 

HAM SALAD. 

Take cold boiled ham, fat and lean together, chop it untU it is thoroughly 
mixed, and the pieces are about the size of peas; then add to this an equal quan- 
tity of celery cut fine; if celery is out of season, lettuce may be substituted. 
Line a dish thickly with lettuce-leaves and fill with the chopped ham and celery. 
Make a dressing the same as for cold slaw and turn over the whole. Very 
fine 

CRAB SALAD. 

Boil three dozen hard-shell crabs twenty-five minutes; drain and let them 
cool gradually; remove the upper shell and the tail, break the remainder apart 
and pick out the meat carefully. The large claws should not be forgotten^ for 
they contain a dainty morsel, and the creamy fat attached to the upper shell 
should not be overlooked, line a salad-bowl with the small white leaves of two 
heads of lettuce, add the crab meat, pour over it a Mayonnaise garnish with 
crab claws, hard-boiled eggs, and little mounds of cress-leaves, which may be 
mixed with the salad when served. 

COLD SLAW. 

Select the finest bead of bleached cabbage— that is to say, one of the finest 
and most compact of the more delicate varieties; cut up enough into shreds to 
fill a large vegetable-dish or salad-bowl— that to be regulated by the size of the 
cabbage and the quantity required; shave very fine, and after that chop up, the 
more thoroughly the better. Put this into a dish in which it is to be served, 
after seasoning it well with salt and pepper. Turn over it a dressing made as 
for cold slaw; mix it well, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

PLAIN COLD SLAW. 
Slice cabbage very fine; season with salt, pepper and a little sugar; pour 
over vinegar and mix thoroughly. It is nice served in the centre of a platter 
vrith fried oysters around it. 

HOT SLAW. 
Cut the cabbage as for cold slaw; put it into a stew-pan, and set it on the top 
of the stove for half, an hour, or till hot all through; do not let it boil th.m 
make a dressing the same as for cold slaw, and, while hot, pour it over the hot 



. 1 54 ,SA UC£S AND DXESSIS'GS^&ALADS. 

cabbage. Stir it until well mixeB and the cabbage looks coddled. Serve unme- 
diately., 

TOMATO SALAO: 

Peel and slice twelve good, sound, fresh tomatoes; the slices about a quarter 
of an inch thick. Set them on the ice or in a refrigerator while you make the 
dressing. T^Iake the same as "Mayonnaise," or you may use "Cream dress- 
ing." Take one head of the broad-leaved variety of lettuce, wash, and arrange 
them neatly around the sides of a salad bowL Place the cold, sliced tomatoes in 
the centre. Pour over the dressing and serve. 

ENDIVE. 
This ought to be nicely blanched and crisp, and is the most wholesome of all 
salads. Take two, cut away the root, remove the dark-green leaves, and pick 
off all. the rest; wash eind drain well, add a few^chives. Dress with Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Endive is extensively cultivated for the adulteration of coffee; is also a fine 
relish, and has broad leaves, '^dive is of the same nature as chiccory, the 
leaves being curly. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Prepare the dressing the same as for tomato salad; cut the celery into bits 
half an inch long, and season. Serve at once before the vinegar injures the 
crispness of the vegetable. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and salt and mustard to taste; 
mash it fine; make a paste by adding a dessertspoonful of olive oil or melted 
butter (use butter always when it is difficult to get Jr^h oil); mix thoroughly, 
and then dilute by adding gradually a teacupful of vinegar, and pour over the 
lettuce. Garnish hy slicing another egg and laying over the lettuce. This is 
sufficient for a moderate-sized dish of lettucfi.j 

POTATO SALAD, HOT 

Pare six or eight large potatoes, and boil till done, and shoe thin while hot; 
peel and cut up three large onions, into small bits and mix with the potatoes; 
cut up some breakfast bacon into small bits, sufficient to fill a, teacup; and fry it 
a light brown; remove the meat, and into the grease stir^three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, making a sour gravy, which with the bacon pour over the potato and 
onion; mix lightly. To be eaten wheuhoL^ 



SAC/CBS AND DRESSINGS— SALADS. IS5 

POTATO SALAD, COUD 

Chop cold boiled potatoes line, with enough raW oidous to eeasoa nicely; 
maKe a dressing as for lettuce salad, and pour over it. 

BEAN SALAD. 

String young beans; break into half -inch pieces or leave whole; wash and 
cook soft in salt water; drain well; add finely chopped onions, pepper, salt and 
vinegar; when cool, add oUve oil or melted butter. 

TO DRESS CUCUMBERS RAW. 

They should be as fresh from the vine as possible, few vegetables being more 
unwholesome when long gathered. As soon as they are brought in, lay them in 
cold water. Just before they are to go to table take them out, pare them and 
slice them into a pan of fresh cold water. When they are aU sUced, transfer 
them to a deep dish; season them with a little salt and black pepper, and pour 
over them some of the best vinegar. You may mix with them a small quantity 
of sliced onions, not to be eaten, but to communicate a slight flavor of onion to 
the vinegar. 

CELERY UNDRESSED. 

Celery is sometimes seat to the table without dressing. Scrape the outside 
stalks, and cut off the green tops'and the roots; lay it in cold water until near 
the time to serve, then change the water, in which let it stand three or four 
minutes; split the stalks in three, with a sharp knife, being careful not to break 
them, and serve in goblet-shaped salad glasses. 

To crisp celery, let it lie in ice-water two hours before serving; to fringe the 
stalks, stick several coarse needles into a cork, and draw the stalk half way from 
the top through the needles several times and lay in the refrigerator to curl and 
crisp. 

RADISHES. 

AJl -the varieties are generally served in the same manner, by scraping and 
placing on the table in glasses containing some cold water to keep them fresh 
looking. 

PEPPERGRASS AND CRESS. 

These are used mostly as an appetizer, served simply with salt. Cresses are 
occasiorally used in making salad. 



156 SAUCES AND DRESSINGS— CATSUeS. 

HORSE-RADISH. 

Hoi-se-radLsh is an agreeable relish, and has a particularly fresh taste in the 
spring; is scraped fine or grated, and set on the table in a small covered cup; 
much that is bottled and sold as horse-radish is adulterated with grated turnip. 

LETTUCE. 

Wash each leaf separately, breaking them from the head; crisp in ice- water 
and serve the leaves whole, to be prepared at table, providing hard-boiled eggs 
cut in halves or slices, oil and other ingredients, to be mixed at table to individual 
taste. 



Catsups. 

. TOMATO CATSUP. No. 1. 
Put into two quarts of tomato-pulp (or two .cans of canned tomatoes) one 
onion, cut fine, two tablespoonfuls of salt and three tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar. Boil until quite thick; then take from the fire and strain it through a 
sieve, working it until it is all through but the seeds. Put it back on the stove, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one of allspice, one of black pepper, and 
one of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, half a teaspoonful of 
cayenne pepper, one grated nutmeg, one pint of good vinegar; boil it until it 
will just run from the mouth of a bottle. It should be watched, stirred often, 
that it does not bum. If sealed tight while hot, in large-mouthed bottles it will 
keep good for years. 

TOMATO CATSUP, No. 2. 

Cook one gallon of. choice ripe tomatoes; strain them, and cook again until 
they become quite thicks About fifteen minutes before taking up put into thera 
a small level teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one tablespoonf ul of nmstard seed, 
half a tablespoonful of whole cloves, one tablespoonful of whole allspice, tied al 
in a thin muslin bag. At the same time, add one heaping tablespoonful 
sugar, and one teacupful of best vinegar, and salt to suit the taste. Seal up air- 
tight, either in bottles or jugs. This is a valuable Southern recipe. 

GREEN TOMATO CATSUP. 

One peck of green tomatoes, and two large onions, sUced. Place them i^ 
layers, sprinkling salt between; let thera stand tweoty-four boars and then 



SAUCES AND DuBSSINGS—CA TStlPS. 1 5 J 

arain them. Add a quarter of a pound of mustard seed, one ounce allspice, one 
ounce cloves, one ounce ground mustard, one ounce ground ginger, two table- 
spoonfuls black pepper, two teaspooufuls celery seed, a quarter of a pound of 
brown sugar. Put all in preserving-pan, cover with vinegar, and boil two 
hours; then strain through a sieve and bottle for use. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

One hundred walnuts, six ounces of shalots, one head of garlic, half a pound 
of salt, two quarts of vinegar, two ounces of anchovies, two ounces of pepper, a 
quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves; beat ip a large mortar 
a hundred green walnuts until they are thoroughly broken; then put them into 
a jar with six oimces of shalots cut into pieces, a head of garlic, two quarts of 
vinegar and the half pound of salt; let them stand for a fortnight, stirring 
them twice a day. Strain off the liquor, put ixito a stew-pan with the anchovies, 
whole pepper, half an ounce of cloves and a quarter of an ounce of mace; boil it 
half an hour, skimming it well. Strain it off, and when cold, pour it clear from 
any sediment into small bottles, cork it down clo.sely and store it in a dry place. 
The sediment can be used for flavoring sauces. 

OYSTER CATSUP. 

One pint of oyster meats, one teacupf ul of sherry, a tablespoonful ol 
salt, a teaepoonful of cayenne pepper, the same of powdered mace, a gill ol 
^ide^ vinegar. 

Procure the oysters very fresh, and open sufficient to fill a pint measure, 
lave the liquor, and scald tne oydters in it with the sherry; strain the oysters 
ind chop them fine with the salt, cayenne and mace, until reduced to a pulp; 
then add it to the liquor in which they were scalded; boil it again five min. 
ites, and skim well; rub the whole through a sieve, and when cold, bottI( 
md cork closely. The corks should be sealed. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Use the larger kind, knovsm as umbrellas or " flaps." They must be very 
fresh and not gathered in very wet weather, or the catsup will be less apt to 
keep. Wash and cut them in two fo four pieces, and place them in a wide, 
flat jar or crock in layers, .sprinkling each layer with salt, and let them stand for 
twenty-four hours; take them out and press out the juice, when bottle and 
cork; put the mushrooms back again, and in another twenty-fouc hours press 
them again; bottle and cork; repeat this for the third time, and then mix 



IS8 SAt/cesrjfSSTD^sss/ArGs^-Cjtrsuj's, 

together aD the luice extracted; add to' it pepper, allspice, one or more cloves 
according to quantity, pounded together; boil the whole, and skim as long as 
any scum nses; bottle when cool; put in each bottle two cloves and a pepper^ 
com. Cork and seal, put in a dry place, and it will keep for years. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 
Ten pounds of fruit gathered just before ripening, five pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, two tablespoonf uls each of ground black pepper, allspice, and 
cinnamon. ■ Boil the fruit in vinegar until reduced to a pulp, then add sugar and 
the other seasoning. Seal it hot. 






Grape catsup is made in the same manner 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 
Take cucumbers suitable for the table; peel and grate them, salt a little, and 
put in a bag to drain over night; in the morning season to taste with salt, pepper 
and vinegar,'^ putjn small jars and seal tight for fall or winter use. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 
Four pounds of currants, two pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, one tea-j 
spoonful of cloves, a tablespoonf ul of cinnamon^pepper and allspice. Boil in a^ 
porcelain sauce-pan until thoroughly cooked. Strain through a sieve/all but 
the skins; boil down until just thick enough to run freely from the mouth of a 
bottle when bold. Cork and set aside. 

APPLE CATSUP. 

Feel and quarter a dozen sound, tart apples; stew them until soft, in as little 
water as possible, then pass them through a sieve. , To a quart of the sifted 
apple, add a teacupful of sugar, one teauspoonful of pepper, one of cloves, one of" 
mustard, two of cinnamon, and two medium sized onions, chopped very fine.' 
Stir all together, adding a tablespoonf ul of salt and a pint of \inegar. Place 
over the fire and boil one hour, and bottle while hot; seal very tight. ' It shouldj 
be about as thick as tomato catsup, so that it will just run from the bottle.^ 

CELERY VINEGAR. 
A quart of fresh celery, chopped fine, or a quarter of a pound of celery seed;' 
one quart of best vinegar;' one tabltjsjioonful of salt, and one T>f ■^whiwsu^r!^ 
POIt the celery or seeid into a'jar, heat the vinegaj^'sugaV and saltfpour it boiling 
hot over the celery, let .itlcool,.cover it'tightly and set away^T In^Itw^j^foeks^ 
ftnoa and ^Ue. 



fSPICED VINEGARS. 

Take one quart of cider vinegar, put into~it half affoimceofceleiyseea; one- 
third of cin ounce of dried mint,'* one- third of 'arT ounce of dried parsley," one 
garlic, three small onions, three whole 'cloves, a teaspoonful of whole pepper- 
coi-ns,' aJjeaspgonftJ _of grated nutmeg,' salt to^ taste, and a tablespoonful of 
sugar; add a tablespoonful of good brandy. Put all into a jar and cover it 
well; let it stand for three weeks, then strain and t)ottle it well. Useful foi 
Savoring salad and other dishes. 



DMcfeles- 

Pickl^'should never be put into vessels of brass, copper or tin, as the action 
of the acid on such metals often results in poisoning the pickles. Porcelain or 
granite-ware is the best for such purposes. 

Vinegar that is used for pickling should, be the best cider or white-wine, and 
fihould never be boiled more than five or six minutes, as it reduces its strength. 
Kn putting away pickles, use stone or glass jars; the glazing on common earthen- 
'ware is rendered injurious by the action of the vinegar. When the jar is nearly 
filled with the pickles, the vinegar should completely cover them, and if there 
is any appearance of their not doing well, turn off the vinegar, cover with fresh 
vinegar, and spices. Alum in small quantities is useful in making them firm 
and crisp. ^ In using ground spices, tie them up in muslin bags. 

To green pickles, put green grape-vine leaves or green cabbage leaves 
between them when heating. Another way is to heat them in strong ginger 
tea. Pickles should be kept closely covered, put into glass jars and sealed 
tightly. 

"Turmeric" is India saffron, and is used very much in pickling as a coloring. 

A piece of horse-radish put into a jar of pickles will keep the vinegar from 
losing its strength, and the_picklesj.will keep "sound much _longer7 especially 
tomato pickles. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Select the medium, small-sized cucumbers. For one bushel make"a brine that 
wiU bear up an eg^; heat it boiling hot and pour it over the cucumbers; let them 
stand twenty-four hours, then wipe them dry; heat some vinegar boiling^ hot, 
ftnd pour over thettj,,st&ndiBg again tweoty-four h9urs..i_N5w change the vin© 



I«0 SAUCES AUD JJIIESSINGS—J'/CKLES 

gaj, putting on fresh vinegar, adding one quart of brown sugar, a pint of white 
mustard seed, a small handful of whole cloves, the same of cinnamon sticks, a 
piece of alum the size of an egg, half a cup of celery seed; heat it all boiling hot 
and pour over the cucumbers. 

SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take one gallon of medium-sized cucumbers, put them into a jar or paiL 
Put into enough boiling water to cover them a small handful of salt, turn it over 
them and cover closely; repeat this three mornings, and the fointh morning 
scald enough cider vinegar to cover them, putting into it a piece of aJvun as 
large as a walnut, a teacup of horse-radish root cut up fine; then tie up in a small 
paualin bag, one teaspoonful of mustard, one of ground cloves, and one of cinna- 
mon. SUce up the cucumbers half of an inch thick, place them in glass jars 
and pour the scalding vinegar over them. Seal tight and they will keep good a 

year or more. 

— Mbs. Lydia 0. Weight, South Vernon, Vermont. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. (For Winter Use.) 

A good way to put down cuciunbers, a few at a time: 

When gathered from the vines, wash, and put in a firkin or half barrel 
layers of cucumbers and rock-salt alternately, enough salt to make sufficient 
brine to cover them, no water; cover vrith a cloth; keep them under the brine 
with a heavy board; take off the cloth, and rinse it every time you put in fresh 
cucumbers, as a scmn will rise and settle upon it. Use plenty of salt and it will 
keep a year. To prepare pickles for use, soak in hot water, and keep in a warm 
place imtil they are fresh enough, then pour spiced vinegar over them and let 
them stand over night, then pour that off and put on fresh. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. (Sweet.) 

One peck of green tomatoes, sliced the day before you are ready for pickUng, 
eprinkhng them through and through with salt, not too heavily; in the morning 
drain off the liquet that will drain from them. Have a dozen good-sized onions 
rather coarsely sUced; take a suitable kettle and put in a layer of the sliced 
tomatoes, then of onions, and between each layer sprinkle the following spices: 
Six red peppers chopped coarsely, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of ground 
allspice, one tablespoonful of ground cinnamon, a tea£poonful of cloves, one 
tablespoonful of mustard. Turn over three pints of good vinegar, or enough to 
completely cover them; boil until tender. This is a dboice redpa 



SAUCES AND DRESSlNGS^flCKLES i6i 

If the flavor of onions is objectionable, the pickle is equally as good without 
them. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. (Sour.) 
Wash and slice, without peeling, one peck of sound green tomatoes, put 
them into a jar in layers with a slight sprinkling of salt between. This may be 
done over night; in the morning drain off the Uquor that has accumulated. 
Have two dozen medium-sized onions peeled and sliced, .ilso six red peppers 
chopped fine. Make some spiced vinegar by boiling for half an hour a quaii of 
cider viuegar with whole spices in it. Now lake a porcelain kettle and place in it 
some of the sliced tomatoes, then some of the sliced onions; shake in some black 
pepper and some of the chopped red peppers; pour over some of the spiced vine- 
gar; then repeat with the tomatoes, onlDns, etc., until the kettle is full; cover 
with cold, pure, cider vinegar, and cook until tender, but not too soft. Turn into 
a jar well-covered, and set in a cool place. 

PICKLED MUSHROOMS. 

Sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms; to each quart of mushrooms two 
blades pounded mace, one ounce ground jiepper, salt to lasle. Choose some nice 
young button-mushrooms for pickling, and mb off the skin with a piece of 
flannel and salt, and cut off the stalks; if very large, take out the red inside, 
and reject the black ones, as they are too old. Put them in a stew-pan, sprinkle 
salt over them, with pounded mace and pepper in the above proportion; shake 
them well over a clear fire until the liquor flows, and keep them there until it is 
all dried up again; then add as much vinegar as will cover them; just let it 
simmer for one minute, and store it away in stone jars for use. When cold, tie 
down with bladder, and keep in a diy i)lace; they will remain good for a length 
of time, and are generally considered excellent' for flavoring stews and other 
dishes. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. (Purple.) 

Cut a sound cabbage into quarters, spread it on a large flat platter or dish 
and sprinkle thickly with salt; set it in a cool place for twenty-four hours; then 
drain off the brine, wipe it dry and lay it in the sim two hours, and cover with 
cold vinegar for twelve hours. Prepare a pickle by seasoning enough vinegar 
to cover the cabbage with equal quantities of mace, allspice, cinnamon and black 
pepper, a cup of sugar to every gallon of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of celery 
seed to every pint. Pack the cabbage in a stone jar; boil the vinegar and spices 
five minutes and pour on hot. Cover and set away in a cool, dry place. , It will be 
good in a month. A few slices of beet-root improves the color. 



tea SAUCES AND DJiBSSfNGS-PICXLES. 

PICKLED WHITE CABBAGE. 

This recipe recommends itself as of a delightful flavor, yet easily made, and 
a convenient substitute for the old-fashioned, tedious method of pickling the 
same vegetable. Take a peck of quartered cabbage, put a layer of cabbage and 
one of salt, let it remain over night; in the morning squeeze them and put them 
on the fire, with four chopped onions covered with vinegar; boil for half an 
hour, then add one ounce of turmeric, one gill of black pepper, one gill of celery 
seed, a few cloves, one tablespoonf ul of allspice, a few pieces of ginger, half an 
ounce of mace, and two pounds of brown sugar. Let it boil half an hour longer, 
and when cold it is fit for use. Four tablespoonf uls of made mustard should be 
added with the other ingredients. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

Break the heads mto small pieces, and boil ten or fifteen minutes in salt and 
«rater; remove from the water and drain carefully. When cold, place in a jar, 
and pour over it hot vinegar, in which has been scalded a liberal supply of whole 
cloves, pepper, aUspice and white mustard. Tie the spices in a bag, and, on 
removing the vinegar from the fire, stir into each quart of it two teaspoonfuls 
of French mustard, and half a cup of white sugar. Cover tightly and be sure 
to haie the vinegar cover the pickle. 

PICKLED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Take two dozen large, green, bell peppers, extract the seeds by cutting a slit 
in the aide (so as to leave them whole). Make a strong brine and pour over 
them; let them stand twenty-four hours. Take them out of the brine, and soak 
them In wat^r for a day and a night; now turn off this water anid scald some 
vinegar, in which put a small piece of alum, and pour over them, letting them 
stand three days. Prepare a stufiing of two hard heads of white cabbage, 
chopped fine, seasoned slightly with salt and a cup of white mustard seed; mix 
it well and stuff the peppers hard and full; stitch up, place them in a stone jar, 
aad pour over spiced vinegar scalding hot. " Cover tightly. 

GREEN PEPPER MANGOES. 

Select firm, sound, green peppers, and add a few red ones, as they are oma- 
mental and look well upon the table. With a sharp knife remove the top, take 
out the seed, soak over night in salt water, then fill with chopped cabbage and 
green tomatoes, seasoned with salt, mustard seed and ground cloves. Sew ob 



SAUCJSS AND DKRSS/JVnS—r/CK LES. 163 

the top. Boil vinegar sufficient to cover them, with a cup of brown sugar, and 
pour over the mangoes. Do this three mornings, then seal. 

CHOWCHOW. (Superior English Recipe.) 
This excellent pickle is seldom made at home, as we can get the imported 
article so much better than it can be made from the usual recipes. This we 
vouch for as being as neeu- the genuine article as can be made: One quart of 
young, tiny cucumbers, not over two inches long, two quarts of very smaU while 
onions, two quarts of tender string beans, each one cut in halves, three quarts of 
green tomatoes, sliced and chopped very coarsely, two fi-esh heads of cauliflower, 
cut into small pieces, or two heads of white, hard cabbage. 

After prepajing these articles, put them in a sloue jar, mix them together, 
sprinkling salt between them sparingly. Let them stand twenty-four houi-s, 
then di'aiu off all the brine that has accumulated. Now put these vegetables in 
a preserving kettle over the fire, sprinkling through them an ounce of turmeric 
for coloring, six refl peppers, chopped coareely, four tablespoonfuls of mustard 
seed, two of celery seed, two of whole allspice, two of whole cloves, a coffee <>up 
of sugar, and two-thirds of a teacup of best ground mixed mustaid. Pour on 
enough of the best cider vinegar to cover the whole weU; cover tightly and 
simmer all well until it is cooked all through and seems tender, watching and 
stirring it often. Put in bottles or glass jars. It grows better as it grows 
older, especially if sealed when hot. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

fe^ small onions until they are white. Scald them in salt and water until 
tender, then take them up, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, and pour over 
them hot spiced vinegar; when cold, cork them close. Keep in a dry, dark 
place. A tablespoouful of sweet oil may be put in the bottles before the cork. 
The best sort of onions for pickling are the small white buttons. 

PICKLED MANGOES. 
Let the mangoes, or young musk-melons, lie in salt water strong enough to 
bear an egg, for two weeks; then soak them in pure water for two days, chang^ 
ing the water two or three times; then remove the seeds and put the mangoes 
in a kettle, first a layer of grape leaves, then mangoes, and so on until all are in, 
covering the top with leaves; add a lump of alum the size of a hickory nut; 
pour vinegar over them and boil them ten or fifteen minutes; remove the leaves 
aad let the pickles stand in this vinegar for a week; then stuff them with the fol- 
lowing mixtui-e: One pound of ginger soaked in brine for a day or two, and ent 



164 SAUCES AND VJIBSSINGS--P/CKLSS. 

in slices, one ounce of black pepper, one of mace, one of allspice, one of turmeric, 
half a pound of garlic, soaked for a day or two in brine, and then dried; one 
pint grated horse-radish, one of black mustard seed and one of white mustard 
seed; bruise all the spices and mix with a teacup of pure oUve oil; to each 
mango add one teaspoonful of brown sugar; cut one soUd head of cabbage fine; 
add one pint, of small onions, a few small cucumbeis and green tomatoes; lay * 
them in brine a. day and a night, then drain them well and add the imperfect 
mangoes chopped fine and the spices; mix thoroughly, stuff the mangoes and tie 
them; put them in a stone jar and pom: over them the best cider vinegar; set 
them in a bright, dry place imtil they are canned. In a month add three 
pounds of brown sugar; if this is not sufficient, add more until agreeable to 
taste. This is for four dozen mangoes. 

PICKLE OF RIPE CUCUMBERS. 
This is a French recipe, and is the most excellent of all the high-flavored 
condiments; it is made by sun-drying thirty old, full-grown cucumbers, which 
have first been pared and spUt, had the seeds taken out, been salted, and let 
stand twenty-four hours. The sun should be permitted to dry, not simply drain 
them. When they are moderately dry, wash them with vinegar, and place 
them in layers in a jar, alternating them with a layer of horse-radish, mustard 
seed, garlic, and onions, for each layer of cucumbers. Boil in one quart of vine- 
gar, one dunce of race-ginger, half an ounce of allspice, and the same of turmeric; 
when cool pour this over the cucimibers, tie up tightly, and set away. This pickle 
requires several months to mature it, but. is deUcious when old, keeps admira- 
bly, and only a little is needed as a relish. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 
One gallon of oysters; wash them weU in their own liquor; carefully deai 
away the particles of shell, then put them into a kettle, strain the liquor over 
them, add salt to your taste, let them just come to the boiling point, or until the 
edges curl up; then skim them out and lay in a dish to cool; put a sprig of mace 
and a little cold pepper; and allow the liquor to boil some time, skimming it 
now and then so long as any scum rises. Pour it into a pan and let it cool. 
When perfectly cool, add a half pint of strong vinegar, place the oysters in a jar 
and pour the Uquor over them. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. (Sweet) 
Pare and seed ripe cucumbers Slice each cucumber lengthwise into fom 
pieces, or cut it into fancy shape? as preferred. Let them stand twenty-^yut 



SAUCES AND URESSINGS— PICKLES. 165 

hours covered with cold vinegar. Drain them, then put them into fresh vine- 
gar, with two pounds of sugar and one ounce of cassia buds to one quart of 
vinegar, and a tablespoonful of salt. Boil all together twenty minutes. Cover 
them closely in a jar 

PICCALILI. 

One peck of green tomatoes; eight largo onions, chopped fine, with one cup 
of salt well stirred in. Let it stand over night; in the morning drain off all the 
liquor. Now take two quarts of water and one of vinegar, boil all together 
twenty minutes. Drain all through a sieve or colander. Put it Dack into the 
kettle again; turn over it two quarts of vinegar, one pound of sugar, half a 
pound of white mustard seed, two tablespoonfuls of ground pepper, two of cin- 
namon, one of cloves, two of ginger, one of allspice, and ha,lf a teaspoonf ul of 
cayenne pepper. Boil aH together fifteen minutes, or until tender. Stir it often 
to prevent scorching. Seal in glass jars. 

A most delicious accompaniment for any kind of meat or fish, 

— lin, St, John-i. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

Pickled eggs are very easily prepared and most excellent as an accompani- 
ment for cold meats. Boil quite hard three dozen eggs, drop in cold water and 
remove ths shells, and pack them when entirely cold in a wide-mouthed jar, 
large enough to let them in or out without breaking. Take as much vinegar as 
you think will cover them entirely, and boil in it white pepper, allspice, a little 
root-ginger; pack them in stone or wide-mouthed glass jars, occasionally putting 
in a tablespoonful of white and black mustard seed mixed, a small piece of race 
ginger, garlic, if liked, horse-radish migrated, whole cloves^ and a very little 
allspice. Slice two or three green peppers, and add in very small quantities. 
They will be fit for Use in eight or ten days. 

AN ORNAMENTAL PICKLE. 

Boil fresh eggs half an hour, then put them in cold water. Boil red beets 
until tender, peel and cut in d'oe form, and cover with vinegar, spiced; shell the 
eggs and drop into the pickle jar. 

EAST INDIA PICKLE. 

Lay in strong brine for two weeks, or until convement to use them, small 

cucumbers, very small common white onions, snap beans, gherkins, hard lyhito 

eabbage quartered, plums, peaches, pears, lemons, green tomatoes and anything 

€^ 70U may wish. When ready, take them out of the brine and simmei^ in 



1 66 SA UCES AND DRESSINGS— PJCKL ES. 

pure water untU tender enough to stick a straw through — if still too salt, soak 
in clear water; drain thoroughly and lay them in vinegar in which is dissolved 
cane ounce of turmeric to the gallon. For five gallons of pickle, take two ounces 
of mace, two of cloves, two of cinnamon, two of allspice, two of celery seed, a 
quarter of a pound of white race ginger, cracked fine, half a pound of white 
mustard seed, half a pint of small red peppers, quarter of a pound of grated 
horse-radiah, half a pint of flour mustard, two ounces ofturmeric.half a pint of 
garlic, if you like; soak in two gallons of cider vinegar for two weeks, stirring 
daily. After the pickles have lain in the turmeric vinegar for a week, take them 
DBt and put in jars or casks, one layer of pickle and one of spice out of the vine- 
gar, till all is used. If the turmeric vinegar is still good and strong, add it and 
the spiced vinegar. If the turmeric vinegar be much diluted, do not use it, but 
add enough fresh to the spiced to cover the pickles; put it on the fire with a 
pound of brown sugar to each gallon ; when boiling, pour over the pickle. Repeat 
this two or three times as your taste may direct. 

MIXED PICKLES. 
Scald in salt water until tender, cauliflower heads, small onions, peppers, 
cucumbers cut in dice, nasturtiums and green beans; then drain luitil dry, and 
pack into wide-mouthed bottles. Boil in each pint of cider vinegar one table- 
spoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of mustard; 
pour over the pickle and seal carefully. Other spices may be added if liked. 

BLUE-BERRY PICKLES. 

For blue-berry pickles, old jars which have lost their covers, or whose edges 
have been broken so that the covers will not fit tightly, serve an exceUent pur- 
pose, as these pickles must not be kept air-tight. 

Pick over your berries, using only sound ones; fill your jars or -wide-mouthed 
bottles to within an inch of the top, then pour in molasses enough to settle 
down into all the speices; this cannot be done in a moment, as molasses does not 
run very freely. Only lazy people will feel obUged to stand by and watch its 
progress. As it settles, pour in more until the berries are covered. Then tie 
ever the top a piece of cotton cloth to keep the flies and other insects out, and set 
away in the preserve closet. Cheap molasses is good enough, and your pickles 
will soon be " sharp." Wild grapes may be pickled in the same manner. 

PICKLED BUTTERNUTS AND WALNUTS. 
These nuts are in the best state for pickling when the outside shell can hf 
penetrated by the head of a pin. Scald them, and rub off the outside skin, put 



SAUCES AND DJIESSINGS—PJCXLSS. li>7 

them in a strong brine for six djlys, changing the water ever7»other day, keep- 
ing them closely covered from the air. Then drain and wipe them, (pietdng 
each nut through in several places with a large needle,) and prepare the pickle 
as follows: — For a hundred large nuts, take of black pepper and ginger root each 
an ounce; and of cloves, mace and nutmeg each a half ounce. Pound all the 
spices to powder, and mix them well together, adding two large spoonfuls of 
mustard seed. Put the nuts into jars, (having first stuck each of them through 
in several places with a large needle,) strewing the powdered seasoning between 
every layer of nuts. Boil for five minutes a gallon of the very best cider vine- 
gar, and pour it boiling hot upon the nuts. Secure the jars closely with corks. 
You may begin to eat the nuts in a fortnight. 

WATERMELON PICKLE. 

Ten poimds of watermelon rind boiled in pure water until tender; drain the 
water off, and make a syrup of two pounds of white sugar, one quart of vinegar, 
half an ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon. The syrup to be poiu:ed over 
the rind boDing hot three days in succession. 

SWEET PICKLE FOR FRUIT 

Most of the recipes for making a sweet pickle for fruit, such as cling-stona 
peaches, damsons, plums, cherries, apricots, etc., are so similar, that we give that 
which is the most successfully used. 

To every quart of fruit, aUow a cup of white sugar and a large pint of good 
cider vinegar, adding half an ounce of stick cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
whole cloves, the same of whole allspice. Let it come to a boil, and pour it hot 
over the fruit; repeat this two or three days in succession; then seal hot in glass 
jars if you wish to keep it for a long time 

The fruit, not the liquor, is to be eaten, and used the same as any pckle. 
Some confound this with " Spiced Fruit," which is not treated the same, one 
being a pickle, the other a spiced preserve boiled down thick. 

Damsons and plums should be pricked with a needle, and peaches washed 
with a weak lye, and then rubbed with a coarse cloth to remove the fur. 

PEAR PICKLE. 

Select small, sound ones, remove the blossom end, stick them with a fork, 
allow to each quart of pears one pint of cider vinegar and one cup of sugar, put 
in a teaspoonful allspice, cinnamon and cloves to boil with the vinegar ; then 
add the peats and boil, and seal io jara 



I6» S4UC£S AND DR£SSIffGS— PICKLES. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Seven pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one pint of good cider vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves. Put into a 
kettle and boil untU the fruit is soft; then skim out the fruit, putting it on dishes 
until the syrup is boiled down thick. Turn the fruit back into the syrup again, 
80 as to heat it all through; then seal it hot in glass jars, and set it in a cool, dark 
place. 

Any tart fruit may be put up m this way, and is considered a very good 
embellishment for cold meats. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

Seven pounds of plums, one pmt of ctder vinegar, four pounds of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of broken cinnamon bark, half as much of whole cloves and the 
same of broken nutmeg; place these in a muslin bag and simmer them in a little 
vinegar and water for half an hour; then add it all to the vinegar and sugar, and 
bring to a boil; add the plums, and boil carefully until they are cooked tender. 
Before cooking the plums they should be pierced with a darning needle several 
times; this will prevent the skins bursting while cooking. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Take the pulp from the grapes, preserving the skins. Boil the pulp and rub 
through a colander to get out the seeds; then add the skins to the strained pulp 
and boil with the sugar, vinegar and spices. To every seven pounds of grapes 
use four and one-half pounds of sugar, one pint of good vinegar. Spice quite 
highly with ground cloves and allspice, with- a little cinnamon. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Select sotmd, large cherries, as large as you can get them; to every quart of 
cherries allow a large cupful af vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a Aoxea 
whole cloves, and half a dozen blades of mace; put the vinegar and sugar on to 
heat with the spices; boil five minutes, turn out into a covered stoneware vessel; 
cover and let it get perfectly cold; pack the cherries into jars, and pour the vine- 
gar over them when cold; coik tightly and set away; they are fit for use almost 
immediately. 



Vegetables of all kinds should be thoroughly picked over, throwing out all 
decayed or unripe parts, then well washed in several watei-s. Most vegetables, 
when peeled, are better when laid in cold water a short time before cooking. 
When partly cookeu a little salt should be thrown into the water in which they 
ai-e boiled, and they should cook steadUy after they are put on, not allowed to 
stop boiling or simmering until they are thoroughly done. Every sort of 
culinary vegetable is much better when freshly gathered and cooked as soon as 
possible, and, when done, thoroughly drained, and served immediately while hot. 

Onions, cabbage, carrots and turnips should be cooked in a great deal of 
water, boiled only long enough to sufficiently cook them, and immediately 
drained. Longer boiling makes them insipid in taste, and with too little watei 
they turn a dark color. 

Potatoes rank first in importance iu the vegetable line, and consequently 
should be properly served. It requires some Uttle intelligence to cook even so 
simple and common a dish as boiled potatoes. In the first place, all defective or 
green ones should be casf. out; a bad one will flavor a whole dish. If they are 
not- uniform in size, they should be made sc by cutting after they are peeled. 
The best part of a potato, or the most nutritious, is next to the skin, therefore 
they should be pared v«ry thinly, if at all; then, if old, the cores should be cut 
out, thrown into cold water salted a Uttle, and boUed until soft enough for a fork 
to pierce through easily; drain immediately, and replace the kettle on the fire 
with the cover partly removed, until they are completely dried. New potatoes 
should be put into boihng water, and when partly done salted a little. They 
should be prepared just in .time for cooking, by scraping off the thin outside 
skin. They require about twenty minutes to boU. 

TO BOIL NEW POTATOES. 

Do not have the potatoes dug long before they are dressed, as they are never 
good when they have been out of the ground some time. Well wash them, rub 



1 70 VMGETAMLSS. 

ofif the skins xvith a coarse cloth, and put them in boUing water salted. Let 
them boil until tender; try them with a fork, and when done pour the water 
away from them; let them stand by the side of the fire with the lid of the 
saucepan partially removed, and when the potatoes are thoroughly dry, put 
them in a hot vegetable dish, with a piece of butter the size of a wahiut; pile the 
potatoes over this, and serve. If the potatoes are too old to have the skins rubbed 
off, boil them in their jackets; drain, peel and serve them as above, with a piece 
of butter placed in the midst of them. They require twenty to thirty minutes 
to cook. Serve them hot and plain, or with melted butter over them. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Take the quantity needed, pare off the skins, and lay them in cold water hall 
an hour; then put them into a sauce-pan, with a little salt; cover with water and 
boil them until done. Drain off the water and mash them fine with a potato- 
masher. Have ready a piece of butter the size of an egg, melted in half a cup 
of boiling hot milk, and a good pinch of salt; mix it weU with the mashed 
potatoes until they are a smooth paste, taking care that they are not too wet. 
Put them into a vegetable dish, heap them up ^d smooth over the top, put a 
small piece of butter on the top in the centre, and have dots of pepper here and 
there on the surface as large as a half dime. 

Some prefer usii^g a heavy fork or wire-beater, instead of a potato- masher, 
beating the potatoes quite light, and heaping them up in the dish without 
smoothing over the top. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Mash them the same as the above, put them into a dish that they are to be 
served in, smooth over the top, and biush over with the yolk of an e^, or spread 
on a bountiful supply of butter and dust well with flour. Set in the oven to 
brown; it will brown in fifteen minutes with a quick fiie. 

MASHED POTATOES, (Warmed Over.) 

To two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, add a half cupful of milk, a pinch o< 
salt, a tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and two eggs beaten 
to a froth. Mix the whole until thoroughly light; then put into a pudding or 
v^etable dish, spread a little butter over the top, and bake a golden brown. 
The quality depends upon very thoroughly beating the eggs before adding them, 
so that Hte potato will remain light and porous after baking, similar to sponge- 
cake « 



VEGETABLES. 1 71 

POTATO PUFFS 

Prepare the potatoes as directed for mashed potato. While hot, shape in 
balls about the size of an egg. Have a tin sheet well buttered, and place the 
balls on it. As soon as all are done, brush over with beaten egg. Brown in 
the oven. When done, slip a knife under them and slide them upon a hot 
platter. Garnish with parsley, and serve immediately. 

POTATOES A LA CREME. 

Heat a cupful of milk; stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut up in as 
much flour. Stir until smooth and thick: pepper and salt, and add two cupfuls 
of cold boiled potatoes, shced, and a little very finely chopped parsley. Shake 
over th,e fire until the potatoes are hot all through, and pour into a deep dish. 

NEW POTATOES AND CREAM. 

Wash and nib new potatoes with a coarse cloth or scrubbing-brush; drop 
into boiling water and boil briskly until done, and no morej press a potato 
against the side of the kettle with a fork; if done, it will yield to a gentle 
pressure; in a sauce- pan have ready some butter and cream, hot, but not boil- 
ing, a Uttle green parsley, pepper and salt; drain the potatoes, add the mixture, 
put over hot water for a mmute or two, and serve. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Peel good-sized potatoes, and shoe them as evenly as possible. Drop them into 
ice-water: liave a kettle of veiy hot lard, as for cakes; put a few at a time into a 
towel and shake, to dry the moisture out of them, and then drop them into the 
boiling lard. Stir them occasionally, and when of a h'ght brown take them out 
with a skimmer, and they will be crisp and not greasy. Sprinkle salt over them 
while hot. 

FRIED RAW POTATOES. 

Peel half a dozen medium-sized potatoes very evenly, cut them in slices as 
thin as an egg-shell, and be stue to cut them from the breadth, not the length, 
of the potato. Put a tablespoonful each of butter and sweet lard into the 
frying-pan, and as soon as it boils add the shced potatoes, sprinkling over them 
salt and pepper to season them. Cover them with a 4ight-fitting lid, and let the 
steam partly cook them; then remove it, and let them. fry a bright gold color, 
shaking and tumingthem carefully, so as to brown equally. Serve veiy hot. 



17a yEOBTABLBS. 

Fried, cold, cooked potatoes may be fried by the same recipe, only slice them 
a little thicker. 

ijemarfc.— Boiled or steamed potatoes chopped up or sliced while they are 
yet warm never try so successfully as when cold. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES, (Kentucky Style.) 

Peel and slice raw potatoes thin, the same as for frying. Butter an e&rtheQ 
dish, put in a layer of potatoes, and season with salt, pepper, butter, a bit of 
onion chopped fine, if liked; sprinkle a little flour. Now put another layer of 
potatoes and the seasoning. Continue in this way till the dish is filled. Just 
before putting into the oven, pour a quart of hot milk over. Bake three quarters 
of an hour. 

Cold boiled potatoes may be cooked the same. It requires less time to bake 
ttiem; they are delicious either way. If the onion is disliked, it can be omitted. 

STEAMED POTATOES. 

This mode of cooking potatoes is now much in vogue, particularly where- 
they are wanted on a large scale, it being so very convenient. Pare the potatoes, 
throw them into cold water as they are peeled, then put them in a steamer. 
Place the steamer over a sauce-pan of boiling water, and steam the potatoes 
from twenty to forty minutes, according to the size and sort. When the fork 
gcied easily through them, they are done; then take them up, dish, and serve 
veiy quickly. 

POTATO SNOW. 

Choose some mealy potatoes that will boil exceedingly white; pare them, and 
cook them well, but not so as to be watery; drain them, and mash and season 
them well. Put in the sauce-pan in which they were dressed, so as to keep 
them as hot as possible; then press them through a wire sieve into the dish in 
which they are to be served; strew a httle "fine salt upon them previous to send- 
ing them to table. French cooks also add a small quantity of pounded loaf 
sugar while they are being mashed. 

HASTY COOKED POTATOES, 

Wash and peel some potatoes; cut them into slices of about a quarter of an 
inch in thickness; throw them into boiling salted water, and, if of good quality, 
they will.be done in about ten minutes. 

Strain off the water, put the potatoes into a hot dish, chop them slightly, add 
pepper, salt, and a few small pieces of fresh butter, and serve without loss of timo. 



VEGETABLES. 1 73 

FAVORITE WARMED POTATOES. 

The potatoes should be bofled lohole, with the skins on in plenty of water, well 
salted, and are much better for being boiled the day before needed. Care should 
be taken that they are not over cooked. Strip off the skins (not pare them with 
a knife), and slice them nearly a quarter of an inch thick. Place them in a 
chopping-bowl and sprinkle over them sufficient salt and pepper to season them 
well; chop them all one way, then turn the chopping-bowl half way around, 
and chop across them, cutting them into little square pieces, the shape of dice. 
About twenty -five minutes before serving time, place on the stove a sauce-pan 
(or any suitable dish) containing a piece of butter the size of an egg; when it 
begins to melt and run over the bottom of the dish, put in a cup of rich sweet 
milk. When this boils up, put in the chopped potatoes; there should be about 
a quart of them; stir them a Uttle so that they become moistened through with 
the milk; then cover and place them on the back of the stove, or in a moderate 
oven, where they will heat through gradually. When heated through stir care- 
fully from the bottom with a spoon, and cover tightly again. Keep hot. until 
ready to serve. Baked potatoes are very good warmed in this manner. 

CRISP POTATOES. 

Cut cold raw potatoes into shavings, cubes, or any small shape; throw them, 

, a few at a time, into boUing fat, and toss them about with a knife untU they 

are a uniform hght brown; drain and season with salt and pepper. Fat is never 

hot enough while bubbling — when it is ready it is still and smoking, but should 

never bum. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Take eight or ten good-sized cold boiled potatoes, slice them endwise, then 

crosswise, making them like dice in small squares. When you are ready to cook 

them, heat some butter or good drippings in a frying-pan; fry in it one small 

onion (cliopped fine) imtil it begins to change color, and look yellow. ^ Now put 

ia your potatoes, sprinkle well with salt and pepper, stir well and cook about 

five minutes, taking care that you do not break them. They trnist not broum. 

Just before taking up, stir in a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Drain dry by 

shaking in a heated colander. Serve very hot. 

— D*hnonico. 

POTATO FILLETS. 

Pare and sUce the potatoes thin; cut them if you like in small fiUete, about a 
quarter of an inch square, and as long as the potato wiU admit; ke^ them ia 



174 VEGETABLES. 

oold water untfl wanted, then drop them into bofling lard; when nearly done, 
take them out with a skimmer and drain them, boil up the lard again, drop the 
potatoes back and f^ till done; this operation causes the fillets to swell up 
and puff. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. No. i. 

Wash, peel and put four large potatoes in cold water, with a pinch of salt, 
and set them over a brisk fire; when they are done pour off all the water and 
mash them. Take another sauce-pan, and put in it ten tablespoonf uls of milk 
and a lump of butter half the size of an egg; put it over a brisk fire; as soob as 
the milk comes to a bofl, pour the potatoes into it, and stir them very fast with 
a wooden spoon; when thorougUy mixed, take them from the fire and.put them 
on a dish. Take a tablespoonf ul and roll it in a clean towel, making it oval in 
shape; dip it in a well-beaten, egg, and then in bread-crumbs, and drop it in hot 
drippings or lard. Proceed in thts manner till all the potato is used, four 
potatoes making six croquettes. Fry them a light brown all over, turning them 
gently as may be necessary. When they are done, lay them on brown paper or 
a hair sieve, to drain all fat off; then serve on a napkin. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. No. fc 

Take two cups of cold mashed potato, season with a pinch 0(f salt, pepper 

and a tablespoonf ul of butter. Beat up the whites of two eggs, and work aH 

together thoroughly; make it into small balls slightly flattened, dip them in the 

beaten yolks of the eggs, then roll either in flour or cracker-crumbs; fry the 

same as fish-balls. 

— Dthtanieo't, 

POTATOES A LA DELMONICO. 

Out the potatoes wit^ a v^etable cutter into small balls about the size of a 
marble; put them into a stew-pan with plenty of butter, ^nd a good sprinkling 
of salt; keep the sauce-pan covered, and shake occasionally until they are quite 
done, which will be in about an hour. 

FRIED POTATOES WITH EGGS. 

Shce cold boiled potatoes, and fry in good butter until brown; beat up one or 
two eggs, and stir into them just as you dish them for the table; do not leave 
them a moment on the fire after the eggs are in, for if they harden they are not 
half so nice; one egg is enough for three or fotu* persons, imlees they are very 
fond of potatoes; if tbey are, have plenty, aud put in two. 



VEGETARLES. 1 75 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Potatoes are either baked in their jackets or peeled; in either case they should 
not be exposed to a fierce heat, which is wasteful, inasmuch as thereby a great 
deal of vegetable is scorched and rendered uneatable. They should be fre- 
quently turned while being baked, and kept from touching each other in the 
oven or dish. When done in their skins, be particular to wash and brush them 
before baking them. If convenient, they may be baked in wood-ashes, or in a 
Dutch oven in front of the fire. Wlien pared they should bo baked in a dish, 
and fat of some kind added to prevent their outsides from becoming burnt; they 
are ordinarily baked thus as an accessory to baked meat. 

Never serve potatoes, boiled or baked whole, in a closely covered dish. They 
become sodden and clammy. Clover with a folded napkin that allows the steam 
to escape, or absorbs the moistura They should be served promptly when done, 
and require about three-quarters of an hour to orte hour to bake them, if of a 
good size. 

BROWNED POTATOES WITH A ROAST. No, I. 

About three quarters of an hour before taking up your roasts, peel middhng- 
sized potatoes, boil them until partly done, then arrange them in the roasting- 
pan aroiuid the roast, basting them with the drippings at the same time you do 
the meat, browning then evenly. Serve hot with the meat. Many cooks partly 
boil the potatoes before putting around the roast. New potatoes are very good 
cooked around a roast. 

BROWNED POTATOES WITH A ROAST. No. 2. 

Peel, cook and mash (he required quantity, adding while hot a little chopped 
onion, pepper and salt ; form it into small ovaJ balls and dredge them with flovir; 
then place around the meat, about twenty minutes before it is taken from the 
oven. When nicely browned, drain dry and serve hot with the meat. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Boiled, steamed and baked the same as Irish potatoes; generally cooked with 
their jackets on. Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices across or lengthwise, 
and fried as common potatoes; or may be cut in half and served icold. 

Boiled sweet potatoes are very nice. Bofl until partly done, peel them and 
bake brown, basting them with butter or beef drippings several times. Served 
hot They should bo a nice brown. 



176 VEGETABLE. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash ar.J scrape them, split them lengthwise. Steam or boil tliem until 
nearly done. Drain, and put them in a baking-dish, placing over them lumps 
of butter, pepper and salt; sprinkle thickly with sugar, and bake in the ovon to 
a nice brown. 

Hubbird squash is nice cooked in the same manner. 

ONIONS BOILED. 

The white silver-skins are the best species. To boil them peel off the outside, 
cut off the ends, put them into cold water and into a stew.pan, and let them scald 
two minutes; then turn off that water, pour on cold water, salted a little, and 
boil slowly till tender, which will be in thirty or forty minutes, according to their 
size; .Irben done drain them quite dry, pour a little melted butter over them, 
sprinkle them with pepper and salt and serve hot. 

An excellent way to peel onions so as not to affect the eyes is to take a pan 
/mW of water, and hold and peel them under the water. 

ONIONS STEWED. 

Cook the Some as boiled onions, and when quite done turn off all the water; 
add a teacupful of milk, a piece of butter the size of an egg, pepper and salt to 
taste, a tablespoonful of flour stirred to a cream; let all boil up once and serve in 
a vegetable dish, hot. 

ONIONS BAKED. 

Use the large Spanish onion, as best for this purpose; wash them clean, but 
do not peel, and put into a sauce-pan, with sUghtly salted water; boil an hour, 
replacing the water with more boiling hot as it evaporates; turn off the water, 
and lay the onions on a cloth to dry them well; roll each one in a piece of but- 
tered tissue paper, twisting it at the top to keep it on, and bake in a slow oven 
about an hour, or until tender all through; peel them; place in a deep dish, and 
brown slightly, basting well with butter for fifteen minutes; season with salt 
and pepper, and pour some melted butter over them. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Peel, slice, and fry them brown in equal quantities of butter and lard or nice 
dtippings; cover until partly soft, remove the cover and brown them: salt and 
pepper. 



rBGSTAJtSS. 177 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Take eight or ten onions of good size, slice them, and boil until tender. Lay 
them in abaking-dish, put in bread-crumbs, butter in smaU bits, pepper and salt, 
between each layer until the dish is full, putting bread-crumbs last; add milk or 
cream until f idL Bake twenty minutes or half an hour 

A little onion is not an injurious article of food, as many beUeve. A judicious 
use of plants of the onion family is quite as important a factor in successful 
cookery as salt and pepper. When carefully concealed by manipulation in food, 
it affords zest and enjoyment to many who could not otherwise taste of it were 
its presence known. A great many successful compounds derive their excellence 
from the partly concealed flavor of the onion, which imparts a delicate appetiz- 
ing aroma highly prized by epicures. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

When cleaned and washed, drop them into boiling water, into which you 
have put salt and a teaspoonful of floiur, or a slice of bread; boil till tender; take 
off, drain, and dish them; serve with a sauce spread over, and made with melted 
butter, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, and vinegar. 

Another way is to noake a white sauce (see Sauces), and when the cauli- 
flowers are dished as above, turn the white sauce over, and serve warm. They 
may also be served in the same way with a milk, cream, or tomato sauce, or 
with brown butter. 

It is a very good pkin to loosen the leaves of a head of cauUflower, and let lie, 
the top downward in a pan of cold salt water, to remove any insects that might 
be hidden between them. 

FRIED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil the cauliflowers till about half done. Mix two tablespoonf uls of flour 
with two yolks of eggs, then add water enough to make a rather thin paste; 
add salt to taste; the two whites are beaten till stiff, and then mixed with the 
yolks, flour and water. Dip each branch of the cauliflowers into the mixture, 
and fry them in hot fat. When done, take them off with a skimmer, turn into 
a colander, dust salt all over, and serve warm. Asparagus, celery, egg- plant 
oyster plant are all fine when fried in this manner. 

* CABBAGE, BOILEDc 

Great care is requisite in cleaning a cabbage for boiling, as it frequently 
harbors numerous insecta. The large drum-head cabbage reauirea an hoar to 



178- VEGETABLES 

boil; the green savory cabbage will boil in twenty minutes. Add considerable 
salt to the water when boiling. Do not let a cabbage boil too long, — by a long- 
boiling it becomes watery Eemove it from the water into a colander" to drain, 
and serve with drawn butter, or butter poured over it, 

^ Eed cabbage is used for slaw, as is also the white winter cabbage. For direc- 
tions to prepare these varieties, see articles Slaw and Sour-Crout. 

CABBAGE WITH CREAM. 

Remove the outer leaves from a solid, small-sized head of cabbage, and cut 
the remainder as fine as for slaw. Have on the fire a spider or deep skillet, and 
when it is hot put in the cut cabbage, pouring over it right away a pint of boil- 
ing water. Cover closely, and allow it to cook rapidly for ten minutes. Drain 
off the water, and add half a pint of new milk, or part milk and cream; when 
it boils, stir in a large teaspoonf ul of either wheat or rice flour, moistened with 
liulk; add salt and pepper, and as soon as it comes to a boil, serve. Those who 
find slaw and other dishes prepared from cabbage indigestible, will not complain 
of this. 

STEAMED CABBAGE. 

Take a sound, solid cabbage, and with a large sharp knife shave it very finely. 
IiOit it in a sauce-pan, pour in half a teacupful of water or just enough to keep 
it from burning; cover it very tightly, so as to confine the steam; watch it 
closely, add a little water now and then, \mtil it begins to be tender; then put 
into it a large tablespoonf ul of butter; salt and pepper to taste, dish it hot. If 
you prefer to give it a tart taste, just before taking from the fire add a third ot 
a cup of good vinegaf . 

LADIES' CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm white cabbage fifteen minutes, changing the water then for more 
from the boihng tea-kettle. When tender, drain and set aside until perfectly 
cold. Chop fine and add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonfvd of butter, pepper, 
salt, three tablespoonf uls of rich milk or cream. Stir all well together, and bake 
in a buttered pudding-dish until brown. Serve very hot. This dish resembles 
cauliflower and is very digestible and palatable. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 
Place in a frying-pan an ounce of butter and heat it boiling hot. Then 
take cold boiled cabbage chopped fine, or cabbage hot, cooked the same as 
eteamed cabbage, put it into the hot butter and fry a light brown, adding two 
tablpspoonf uls of vinegar. Very good. 



VEGETABLES. Xjq 

FRENCH WAY OF COOKING CABBAGE. 
Chop cold boQed white cabbage and let it drain till perfectly dry; stir in some 
melted butter to'taste; pepper, salt and four tablespoonfuls of cream; after it is 
heated through add two well-beaten eggs; then turn the miztore into a buttered 
frying-pan, stirring imtil it is Tery hot and becomes a delicate brown on the 
under side. Place a hot dish over the pan, which must be reversed when turned 
out to be served 

SOUR-CROUT. 

Barrds having held wine or vinegar are used to prepare sour-crout in.^ It is 
better, however, to have a special barrel for the piupose*. Strasbuig, as well as 
all Alsace, has a well-acqviired fame for preparing the cabbages. They slice very 
white and firm cabbages in fine i^ireds with a machine made for the purpose. 
At the bottom of a small barrel they place a layer of coarse salt, and alternately 
layers of cabbage and salt, being careful to have one of salt on the top. As each 
layer of cabbage is added, it must be pressed down by a large and heavy pestle, 
and fresh layers are added as soon as the juice floats on the surface. The cab< 
b^ge-must be seasoned with a few grains of coriander, juniper berries, etc. 
When the barrel is full it must be put in a dry cellar, covered with a doth, 
under a plank, and on this heavy wdghts are placed. At the end of a few days 
it will begin to ferment, during which time the pickle must be drawn off and 
replaced by fresh, nntil the liquor becomes clear. This should be done every 
day. Renew the cloth and wash the cover, put the weights back, and let stand 
for a month. By that time the sour-crout will be ready for use. Care must 
be taken to let the least possible air enter the sour-crout, and to have the cover 
perfectly clean. Each time the banel has to be opened it must be properly 
dosed again. These precautions must not be neglected. 

This is often fried in the same manner as fried cabbage, excepting it is iivt 
boiled until soft in just water enough to cook it, then fry and add vin^&r. 

TO BOIL RICE, 
f Kk over the rice carefully, wash it in warm water, rubbing it between the 
hands, rinsing it in several waters, then let it remain in cold water until ready 
to be cooked. Have a sauce-pan of water slightly salted; when it is boiling 
hard, pour off the cold water from the rice, and sprinkle it in the boiling water 
by degrees, so as to keep the particles separated. Boil it steadily for twenty 
minutes, then take it off from the fire, and drain off all the water. Place the 
uuce-pan with the lid partly off, on the bade part of the stove, where it is only 



I80 VEGETABLES. 

moderately warm, to allow the rice to dry. The moisture will pass off and each 
grain of rice will be s^)arated, so that if shaken the grains wiU fall apart. This 
is the true way of serving rise as a vegetable, and is the mode of cooking it in 
the southern States where it is raised. 

PARSNIPS, BOILED. 

Wash, scrape and split them. Put them into a pot of boiling water; add a 
little salt, and- boil them till quite tender, which will be in from two to three 
hours according to their size. Dry them m a cloth when done and pour melted 
butter or white sauce (see Sauces) over them in the dish. Serve them up with 
any sort of boiled meat or with salt cod. 

Parsnips are very good baked or stewed with meat. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

B<h1 tender in a little hot water salted; scrape, cut into long sUces, dredge 
with flour; fry in hot lard or dripping, or in butt«r and lard mixed; fry quite 
brown. Drain off fat and serve. 

Parsnips may be boiled and mashed the same as potatoes. 

STEWED PARSNIPS. 

After washing and scraping the parsnips slice them about half of an inch 
thick. Put them in a sauce-pan of boiling water containing just enough to 
barely cook them; add a tablespoonf ul of butter, season with salt and pepper, then 
cover closely. Stew them until the water has cooked away, watching carefully 
and stirring often to prevent burning, until they are soft. When they are done 
they wiU be of a creamy Ught straw color and deliciously sweet, retaining all the 
goodness of the vegetable. , 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil four or five parsnips; when tender take off the skin and mash them fine; 
add to them a teaspoonful of wheat flour and a beaten egg; put a tablespoonful 
of lard or beef drippings in a frying-pan over the fire, add to it a saltspoonful of 
salt; when boiling hot put in the pai-snips; make it in small cakes with a spoon; 
when one side is a delicate brown turn the other; when both are done take them 
on a dish, put a very little ol the fat in which they were fried over and serve hot. 
These resemble very nearly the taste of the salsify or oyster plant, and will gen- 
«raUy be preferred. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender, scrape, and slice lengthwise. Put over the fire with two table- 
ipoonfuls of butter, pepper and salt, and a Utile minced pantey. Shake \aiSi 



fTEGETASLES. i8l 

the mixture boils. Dish the parsnips, add to the sauce three tablespoonfub of 
cream or milk, in which has been stirred a quarter of a spoonful of flour. Boil 
once, and pour over the parsnips. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 
Pour boiling water over a dozen sound ripe tomatoes; let them remain for a 
few moments; then peel off the skins, slice them, and put them over the 
fire in a well-lined tin or granite ware sauce-pan. Stew them about 
twenty minutes, then add a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to 
taste; let them stew fifteen minutes longer; and serve hot. Some prefer to 
thicken tomatoes with a Uttle grated bread, adding a teaspoonful of sugar; and 
others who like the flavor of onion chop up one and add while stewing; then 
again some add .as much green com as there are tomatoes. 

TO PEEL TOMATOES. 
Put the tomatoes into a fiying-basket, and plunge them into hot water for 
three or four minutes. Drain and peel. Another way is to place them in a flat 
baking-tin and set them in a h ot oven about five minutes; this loosens the skins 
90 that they readily slip off. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 
Butter the sides and bottom of a pudding-dish. Put a layer of bread-crumbs 
in the bottom; on them put a layer of sliced tomatoes; sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and some bits of butter, and a very littlt white sugar. Then repeat with another 
layer of crumbs, another of tomato, and seasoning until fuQ, having the top layer 
of slices of tomato, 'with bits of butter on each. Bake covered until weEcooked 
through; remove the cover and brown quickly. 

STUFFED BAKED TOMATOES. 

From the blossom-end of a dozen tomatoes->smooth, ripe and solid — cut a 
thin shce, and with a small spoon scoop out the pulp without breaking the rind 
surrounding it; chop a small head of cabbage and a good-sized onion finely,! 
and mix with them fine bread-crumbs and the pulp; season with pepper, salt' 
and sugar, and add a cup of sweet cream; when all is well mixed, fill the 
tomato shells, replace the slices, and place the tomatoes in a buttered baking 
dish, cut ends up, and put in the pan just enough water to keep from buming; 
djx>p a small lump of butter on each tomato, and bake half an hour or so, till well 
done; place another bit of butter on each, and serve in same dish. Very fine. .» 

Another stuffing which is considered quite fine. Cut a slice from the stem 



1 8a VEGETABLES. 

of each and scoop out the soft pulp. Mince one small onion and fty it slightljr; 
add a gill of hot water, the tomato pulp, and two ounces of cold ve&l or chicken 
chopped fine, simmer slowly, and season with salt and pepper. Stir into the 
pan cracker-dust or bread-crumbs enough to absorb the moisture; take off from 
the fire and let it cool; stuff the tomatoes with this mass, sprinkle dry crumbs 
over the top; add a small piece of butter to the top of each and bake until slightly 
browned on top 

BAKED TOMATOES, (Plain.) 

Peel and slice quarter of an inch thick ; place in layers in a pudding dish, 
seasoning each layer with salt, pepper, butter, and a very little white sugar. 
Oover with a lid or large plate, and bake half an hour. Bemove the lid and 
brown for fifteen minutes. Just before taking from the oven, pour over the 
top three or four tablespoonf uls of whipped cream with melted butter. 

TO PREPARE TOMATOES, (Raw.) 

Carefully remove the peelings. Only perfectly ripe tomatoes should ever be 
eaten raw, and if ripe the skins easUy peel off. Scalding injures the flavor. 
Slice thin, and sprinkle g'jnerously with salt, more sparingly with black pepper, 
and to a dish holding one quart, add a light tablespoonful of sugar to give a 
piquant zest to the whole. Lastly, add a gill of best cider vinegar; although, if 
you would have a dish yet better suited to please an epicurean palate, you may 
add a teaspoonf ul of made mustard and two tablespoonfuls of rich sweet crean:L 

FRIED AND BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut firm, large, ripe tomatoes into thick slices, rather more than a quarter of 
an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper, dredge well with flour, or roll in 
egg and crumbs, and fry them brown on both sides evenly, in hot butter and 
lard mixed. Or, prepare them the same as for frying, broiling on a well- 
greased gridiron, seasoning afterward the same as beefsteak. A good accom- 
paniment to steak. Or, having prepared the following sauce, a pint of milk, a 
tablespoonful of flour and one beaten egg, salt, pepper and a very little mace; 
cream an ounce of butter, whisk into it the milk and let it simmer until it 
thickens; pour the sauce on a hot side-dish and arrange the tomatoes in the 
centre. 

SCRAMBLED TOMATOES. 

Remove the skins from a dozen tomatoes; cut them up in a sauce-pan; add a 
littl* butter p«pper and salt; when euffioieDtly bofled, beat up Ave or six «gglk 



rSGETABLES. iSj 

and just before you serve turn them into the sauce-pan with the tomatoes, and 
stir one way for two minutes, allowing them lime to be done thoroughly. 

CUCUMBER X LA CR^ME. 
Peel and cut intp slices (lengthwise) some fine cucumbers. Bofl them until 
soft, salt to taste, and serve with delicate cream sauce. 

For Tomato Salad, see " Salads," also for Raw Cucumbers. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 
Pare them and cut lengthwise in rery thick slices; wipe them dry with a 
cloth; sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and fry in lard and 
butter, a tablespoonful of each, mixed.. Brown both sides and serve warm. 

GREEN CORN, BOILED. 

This should be cooked on the same day it is gathered; it loses its sweetness 
in a few hours and must be artificiaUy supplied. Strip off the husks, pick out 
all the silk and put it in boiling water ; if not entirely fresh, add a tablespoonful 
of 8\igar to the water, but no sail; boil twenty minutes, fast, and serve; or you 
may cut it from the cob, put in plenty of butter and a little salt, and serve in a 
covered vegetable dish. The com is much sweeter when cooked with the huskn 
on, but requires longer time to boil. Will generally boil in twenty minutes. 

Oreen cora left over from dinner makes a nice breakfast dish, prepared as 
follows: Cut the com from the cob, and put into a bowl with a cup of milk to 
every cup of com, a half cup of flour, one egg, a pinch of salt, and a little butter. 
Mix well into a thick batter, and fry in small cakes in very hot butter. Sorve 
with plenty of butter and powdered sugar. 

CORN PUDDING. 

This is a Virginia dish. Scrape the substance out of twelve ears of tender, 
green, uncooked cohi (it is better scraped than grated, as you do not get those 
husky particles which you cannot avoid with a grater); add yolks and whites, 
beaten separately, of four eggs, a teaspoonful of sugar, the same of flour mixed 
in a tablespoonful of butter, a small quantity of salt and pepper, and one pint of 
niilk. Bake about half or three quarters of an hour. 

STEWED CORN. ^ 

Take a dozen ecus of green sweet com, very tender and juicy; cut off the 
kernels, cutting with a large sharp knife from the top of the <x>b down; then 
•crape the cob. Put the com into a sauce-pan over the fire, with just enough 



1 84 VBGBTABLBS. 

water to make it cook without burning; boD about twenty minutes, then add a 
teacupf ul of milk or cream, a tablespoonful of cold butter, and season with pepper 
and salt. Boil ten minutes longer, and dish up hot, in a vegetable dish. The 
com would be much sweeter if the scraped cobs were boiled first in the water 
that the com is cooked in 

Many like com cooked in this manner, putting half com and half tomatoes; 
either way .is very good. 

FRIED CORN. 

Cut the com off the cob, taking care not to bring off any of the husk with 
it, and to have the grains as separate as possible. Fry in a little butter— just 
enough to keep it from sticking to the pan; stir very often. When nicely 
browned, add salt and pepper, and a Uttle rich cream. Do not set it near the 
stove after the cream is added, as it vidll be apt to turn. This makes a nice 
dinner or breakfast dish. 

ROASTED GREEN CORN. 

Strip o£f all the husk from green com, and roast it on a gridiron over a bright' 
fire of coajs, turning itas one side is done. Or, if a wood fire is used, make a 
place clean in front of the fire, lay the com down, turn it when one side is done; 
serve with salt and butter 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take a pint of fresh shelled Lima beans, or any lai^ge fresh beans, put them 
in a pot with cold water, rather more than will cover them. Scrape the kernels 
from twelve ears of young sweet com; put the cobs in with the beans, boiling 
fi-om half to three-quarters of an hour. Now take out the cobs and put in the 
scraped corn; boil again fifteen minutes, then season with salt and pepper to 
taste, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and half a cup of cream. Serve hot. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Take fresh, purple egg-plants of a middling size; cut them in slices a quartei 
of an inch thick, and soak them for half an hour in cold water, with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt in it. Have ready some cracker or bread-crumbs and one beaten egg; 
Jrain off the water from the slices, lay them on a napkin, dip them in the 
jrambs and then in the egg, put another coat of crumbs on them, and fry them 
in butter to a light brown. The frying-pan must be hot before the slices are put 
In, — th^ will fry in ten minutes. 
> You may pare them before you uut them into the frying-pan, or you maj 



VEGETABLES. 1 85 

pull the skins off when you take them up. You must not remove them from 
the water until you axe ready to cook them, as the air wiU turn them black. 

STUFFED EGG-PLANT. 

Cut the egg-plant in two; scrape out all the inside and put it in a sauce-pan 
with a little minced ham; cover with water and boil imtil soft; drain off the 
water; add two tablespoonfuls of grated crumbs, a tablespoonful of butter, half 
a minced onion, salt and pepper; stuff each half of the hiill with the mixture; 
add a small lump of butter to each, and bake fifteen minutes 

Minced veal or chicken in the place of ham, is equally as good, and many 
prefer it. 

STRING BEANS. 

Break off the end that grew to the vine, drawing off at the same time the 
string upon the edge; repeat the same process from the other «nd; cut them 
with a sharp knife into pieces half an inch long, and boil thefia jn just enough 
water to cover them. They usually require one hour's boiling; but this depends 
upon their age and freshness. After they have boiled until temder, and the 
water boiled nearly out, add pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of butter, and a 
half a cup of cream; if you have not the cream, add more butter. 

Many prefer to drain them before adding the seasoning; in that case they 
lose the real goodness of the vegetable. 

LIMA AND KIDNEY BEANS. 

These beans should be. put into boiling water, a little more than enough to 
cover them, and boiled till tender— from half an hour to two hours; serve with 
butter and salt upon them. 

These beans are in season from the last of July to the last of September, 
There are several other varieties of beans, used as smnmer vegetableSi. which 
are cooked as above. 

For Baked Beans, see " Pork and Beans." 

CELERY. 
This is stewed the same as green com. by boiling, adding cream, butter, salt 
and pepper. 

STEWED-SALSIFV OR OYSTER PLANT^ 
Wash the roots and scrape off their skins, .jiirowing them, as you do so, into 
cold water, for exposure to the air causes them to.immediately turn dark. Then 
cut crosswise into little thin slices; throw into frrah water, enough to cover; add 



1 86 VEGETABLES. 

8 little salt, and stevr in a covered vessel until tender, or about one hour. Pour 
off a little of tbe water, add a small lump of butter, a little pepper, and a gill of 
sweet cream, and a teaspoonf ul of flour stirred to a paste. Boil up and serve hot. 
Salsify may be simply boiled, and melted butter turned over them. 

FRIED SALSIFY. 
Stew the salsify as usual till very tender; then with the back of a spoon or a 
potato jammer, mash it very fine. Beat up an e^, add a teacupf ul of milk, a 
Uttle flour, butter and seasoning of pepper and salt. Make.into little cakes, and 
fry a light brown in boiling lard, first rolling in beaten egg and then flour. 

BEETS BOILED. 
Select small-sized, smooth roots. They should be carefully washed, but not 
cut before boiling, as the juice will escape and the sweetness of the vegetable be- 
impaired, leaving it white and hard. Put them into boiling water, and boil them 
until tender; which requires often from one to two hours. Do not probe them, 
but press them with the finger to ascertain if they are sufficiently done. When 
satisfied of this, take them up, and pujt them into a pan of cold water, and slip 
off the outside. Cut them into thin sUces, and while hot season with butter, 
salt, a Uttle pepper and veiy sharp vinegar. 

BAKED BEETS. 
Beets retain their sugary, deUcate flavoc to perfection if they are baked 
instead of boiled. Turn them frequently while in the oven, using a knife, aa 
the fork allows the juice to run out. When done remove the skin, and serve, 
with butter, salt and pepper on the slices. 

STEWED BEETS. 
Boil them first, and then scrape and slice them. Put them into a stew-pan 
with a piece of butter rolled in flour, some boiled onion and parsley chopped fine, 
and a little vinegar, salt and pepper. Set the pan on the fire, and let the beete 
stew for a quarter of an hour. 

OKRA. 

This grows in the shape of pods, and is of a gelatmous character, much used 
for soup, and is also pickled; it may be boiled as follows. Put the young and 
tender pods of long white okra in salted boihng water in granite, porcelain or a 
tm-lined saucepan— as contact with iron will discolor it; boU fifteen minutes; 
remove the stems, and serve with butter, pepper, salt and vinegar if preferred. 



VEGETABLES. I87 

ASPARAGUS. 

SCi^pe the stems of the asparagus hghtly, but very clean; throw them into 
cold wat«r, and when they are all scraped and very clean, tie them in bunches 
of equal size; cut the large ends evenly, that the stems may be all of the same 
length, and put the asparagus into plenty of boiling water, well salted. While 
it is boiling, cut several slices of bread half an inch thick, pare off the crust, and 
toast it a deUcate brown on both sides. When the stalks of the asparagus are 
tender, (it will usually cook in twenty to forty minutes), lift it out directly, or it 
will lose both its color and flavor, and will also be liable to break; dip the toast 
quickly into the liquor in which it was boiled, and dish the vegetable upon it, 
the beads all lying one way. Pour over white sauce, or melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS WITH EGGS. 

Boil a bunch of asparagus twenty minutes; cut off the tender tops and lay 
them in a deep pie plate, buttering, salting and peppering weU. Beat up four 
eggs, the yolks and whites separately, to a stiff froth; add two tablespoonfuls of 
milk or cream, a tablespoonf ul of warm butter, pepper and salt to taste. Pctur 
evenly over the asparagus mixture. Bake eight minutes or until tbfi eggs are 
set. Very good. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell the peas and wash in cold water. Put in boiling water just enough to 
cover them well, and keep them from burning; boil from twenty minutes to 
half an hour, when the Uquor should be nearly boiled out; season with pepper 
and salt, and a good allowance of butter; serve very hot. 

This is a very much better way than cooking in a larger quantity of water, 
and draining off the liquor, as that diminishes the sweetness, and much of the 
fine flavor of the peas is lost. The salt should never be put in the peas before 
they are tender, unless very yoimg, as it tends to harden them 

STEWED GREEN PEAS". 

Into a sauce-pan of boiling water put two or three pints of young green peas, 
and when nearly done and tender, drain in a colander dry; then melt two 
ounces of butter in two of flour; stir weQ, and boil five minutes longer; should 
the pods be quite clean and fresh, boil them first in the water, remove, and put 
in the peas. The Germans prepare a very palatable dish of sweet young pod* 
•lone, by simply stirring; in a little butter with some savory herbs. 



188 VKGETABLES. 

SQUASHES, OR CYMBLINGS- 

The green or summer squash is best when the outside is beginning to tui-n 
yellow, as it is then less watery and insipid than when younger. Wash them, 
cut them into pieces, and take out the seeds. Boil them about three-quarters of 
an hour, or till quite tender. When done, drain and squeeze them well till you 
have pressed out all the water; mash them with a little butter, pepper and salt. 
Thwi put the squash thus prepared into a stew-pan, set it on hot coals, and stir 
it very frequently till it becomes dry. Take care not to let it bum. 

Summer squash is very nice steamed, then prepared the same as boiled. 

BOILED WINTER SQUASH 

This is much finer than the summer squash. It is fit to eat in August, and, 
in a dry warm place, can be kept well, all winter. The color is a very bright 
yellow. Pare it, take out the seeds, cut it in pieces, and stew it slowly till quite 
soft, in a very little water. Afterwards drain, squeeze, and press it 'well; then 
mash it with a very little butter, pepper and salt. They will boil in from twenty 
to forty minutes. 

BAKED WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut open the squash, take out the seeds, and without paring cut it up inta 
large pieces; put the pieces on tins or a dripping-pan, place in a moderately hot 
oven, and bake about an hour. When done, peel and mash like mashed 
potatoes, or sei-ve the pieces hot on a dish, to be eaten warm with butter like 
sweet potatoes. It retains its sweetness much better baked this way than when 
boiled. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Chop rather coarsely the remains of vegetables left from a boiled dinner, 
such as cabbage, parsnips, potatoes,- etc., sprinkle over them a little pepper; 
place in a saucepan or frying-pan over the fire; put in a piece of butter the size 
of a hickory nut; when it begins to melt, tip the dish so as to oil the bottom, and 
around the sides; then put in the chopped vegetables; pour in a spoonful or two 
of hot water from the tea-Js^tle; cover quickly so as to keep in the steam. 
When heated thoroughly take off the cover and stir occasionally until well 
cooked. Serve hot. Persons fond of vegetables wiU rehsh this dish very much. 

SPINACH. 
It should be cooked so as to -retain its bright-green color, and not sent to 
table, as it so often is, of a dull-brown or olive color; to retain its fresh appear- 
ance, do not cover the vessel while it is cooking. 



VECBTABLES. I89 

Spinach requii-es dose examination and picking, as insects are frequently 
found among it, and it is often gritty. Wash it through three or four waters. 
Then drain it and put it in boiling water. Fifteen to twenty minutes is gener- 
ally sufficient time to boil spinach. Be careful to remove the ^cum. ' When It 
is quite tender, take it up, and drain and squeeze it well. Chop it fine, and put 
it into a sauce-pan with a piece of butter and a little pepper an^ salt. Set it on 
the fire and let it stew five minutes, stirring it aU the time, until quite diy. 
Turn it into a vegetable dish, shape it into a mound, slice some hard-boiled eggs 
and lay around the top. 

GREENS. 

About a peck of greens are enough for a mess for a family of si^ such as 
dandelions, cowslips, burdock, chiccory and other greens. All greens should be 
cafefully examined, the tough ones thrown out, then be thoroughly washed 
through several waters until they are entirely free fi'om sand. The addition of a 
handful of salt to each pan of water used in washiug the greens will free them 
from insects and worms, especially, if, after the last watering, they are allowed 
to stand in salted water for a half hour or longer. When ready to boil the 
greens, put them into a large pot half full of boiling water, with a handful of 
salt, and boil them steadily until the stalks are tender; this will be in from five 
to twenty minutes, according to the maturity of the greens; but remember that 
long-continued boiling wastes the tender substances of the leaves, and so 
diminishes both the bulk and the nourishment of the dish; for this reason it is 
best to cut away any tough stalks before beginning to cook the greens. As soon 
as they are tender, drain them in a colander, chop them a little and return them 
to the fire long enough to season them with salt, pepper and butter; vinegar 
may be added if it is liked; the greens should be served as soon as they are hot. 

All kinds of greens can be cooked in this manner. 

STEWED CARROTS. 
Wash and scrape the carrots, and divide them into strips; put them into a 
stew-pan with water enough to cover them; add a spoonful of salt, and let them 
bon slowly imtil tender; then drain and replace them in the pan, with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter rolled in flour, shake over a little pepper and salt, then add 
enough cream or milk to moisten the whole; let it come to a boil and serve hot, 

CARR/.)TS MASHED 
Scrape and -wash them; cook them tender in boiling water salted slightly. 
Drain well and mash them. Work in a good piece of butter and season with 
pepper and salt. Heap up on a vegetable dish and serve hot. 



I90 VBCETABLMS. 

Oarrote are also good simply boUed in salted water and dished tip hot vrith 
melted butter over them. 

TURNIPS. 

Turnips aro boiled plain with or without meat, also mashed like potatoes, and 
stewed like parsnips. They should always be served hot. They require from 
forty minutee to an hour to cook. 

STEWED PUMPKIN. 
See " Stewed Pumpkin for Pie." Cook the same, then after stewing, season 
the same as inashed potatoes. Pumpkin is good baked in the oarae manner as 
baked winter squash. 

STEWED ENDIVE. 

Ingredients. — Six heads of endive, salt and water, one pint of broth, thicken- 
ing of butter and flour, one tablespoouful of lemon juice, a small lump of sugar. 

Mode. — ^Wash and free the endive thoroughly from insects, remove the green 
part of the leaves, and put it into boiling water, slightly salted. Let it remain 
for ten minutes; then take it out, drain it till there is no water remaining, and 
chop it very fine. Put it into a stew-pan with the broth; add a little salt and a 
lump of sugar, and boil imtil the endive is perfectly tender. When done, which 
may be ascertained by squeezing a piece between the thumb and finger, add a 
thickening of butter and flour and the lemon juice; let the sauce boil up. and 
serve. 

Time. — Ten minutes to boil, five minutes to simmer in the broth. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 
Prepare them the same as for stewing. Place them in a baking-pan, in a 
moderate oven. Season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. 
Cook in the oven fifteen minutes, baste with butter. Arrange on a dish and 
pour the gravy over them. Serve with sauce made by beating a cup of cream, 
two ounces of butter, a tablespoonf ul of chopped parsley, a httle cayenne pepper, 
salt, a tablespoonf ul of white sauce, and two tablespoonf lils of lemon juice. Put 
in a sauce-pan and set on the fire. Stir until thick, but do not let boiL Mush- 
rooms are very nice placed on shoes of well-buttered toast when set into the 
oven to bake. They cook in about fifteen minutes. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 
Time, twenty-one minutes. Button mushrooms; salt to taste; a little butter 
rolled in flour: two tablespoonfuls of cream or the yolk of one egg. Choose 



VBGETABLBS. 19I 

buttons of uniform size. Wipe them dean and white with a wet ^annd; put 
them in a stew-pan with a little water, and let them stew very gently for a quar- 
ter of an hour. Add salt to taste, work in a little flour and butter, to make the 
liquor about as thick as cream, and let it boil for five minutes. When you are 
ready to dish it up, stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream or the yolk of an egg; 
stir it over the fire for a minute, but do not let it boil, and serve. Stewed but- 
ton mushrooms are very nice, either in fish stews or ragouts, or served apart to 
eat with fish. Another way of doing them is to stew them in milk and water 
(after they are rubbed white), add to them a Uttle veal gravy, mace and salt, and 
thicken the gravy with cream or the yolks of eggs. 

Mushrooms can be cooked in the same manner as the recipes for oysters, 
either stewed, fried, broiled, or as a soup. They are also used to flavor sauces, 
catsups, meat gravies, game and soups. 

CANNED MUSHROOMS. 
Canned mushrooms may be served with good effect with game and even 
with beefsteak if prepared in this way: Open the can and pour off every drop of 
the liquid found there; let the mushrotims drain, then put them in a sauce-pan 
with a little cream, and butter, pepper, and salt; let them simmer gently fox 
from five to ten minutes, and when the meat is on the platter pour the mush- 
rooms over it. If served with steak, that should be very tender, and be broiled, 
never in any case fried. 

MUSHROOMS FOR WINTER USE. 

Wash and wipe free from grit the small fresh button mushrooms. Put into 
a frying-pan a quarter of a pound of the very best butter. Add to it two whole 
cloves, a saltspoonf ul of salt, and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. When hot, 
add a quart of the small mushrooms, toss them about in the butter for a moment 
only, then put them in jars; fill the top of each jar with an inch or two of the 
butter and let it cooL Keep the jars in a cool place, and when the butter is 
quite firm, add a top layer of salt. Cover to keep out dust. 

The best mushrooms grow on uplands, or in high, open fields, where the air 

is pure. 

TRUFFLES. 

The truffle belongs to the family of the mushrooms; they are used principally 
in this country as a condiment for boned turkey and chicken, scrambled eggs, 
fillets of beef, game and fish. When mixed in due proportion, they add a pecu- 
liar zest and flavor to sauces, that cannot be found in any other plant in th« 
vegetable kingdon^ 



192 VEGETABLES. 

ITALIAN STYLE OF DRESSING TRUFFLES. 

Ten truffles, a quarter of a pint of salad-oil, pepper and salt to taste, one 
tablespoonful of minced parsley, a very little finely minced garlic, two blades of 
pounded mace, one tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 

After cleansing and brushing the truffles, cut them into inin slices, and put 
them in a baking-dish, on a seasoning of oil or butter, pepper, salt, parsley, garb'c 
and mace, in the above proportion. Bake .them for nearly an hour, and just 
before serving, add the lemon juice and send them to table very hot. 

TRUFFLES AU NATUREL. 

Select some fine truffles; cleanse them, bywashing them m several waters 
with a brush, until not a particle of sand or grit remains on them; wrap each 
truffle in buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for quite an hour; take oft the 
paper, wipe the truffles, and serve them in a hot napkin. 



fIDaccaroni. 

MACCARONl A LA ITALIENNE. 

Divide a quarter of a pound of maccaroni into four-inch pieces. Simmer 
fifteen minutes in plenty of boiling water, salted. Drain. Put the maccaroni 
into a sauce-pan and turn over it a strong soup stock, enough to prevent burn- 
ing. Strew over it an ounce of grated cheese; when the cheese is melted, dish. 
Put alternate layers of maccaroni and cheese; then turn over the soup stock and 
bake half an hour. 

MACCARONI AND CHEESE. 

Break half a pound of maccaroni into pieces an inch or two. long; cook it in 
boihng water enough to cover it well; put in a good teaspoonful of salt; let it 
boil about twenty minutes. Drain it well, and then put a layer in the bottom of 
a well-buttered pudding-dish, upon this some grated cheese, and small pieces of 
butter, a bit of salt, then more maccaroni, and so on, filling the dish; sprinkle 
the top layer with«a thick layer of cracker-cnunbs. Pour over the whole a tea- 
cupful of crieam or milk. Set it in the oven and bake half an hour. It should 
be nicely browned on top. Serve in the same dish, in which it was baked, with 
% clean napkin pinned around it. 



VEGETABLES. I9J 

TIMBALE OF MACCARONI. 

Break in very short lengths small maccaroni (vermicelli, spaghetti, tagliarinl). 
Let it be rather overdone; dress it with butter and grated cheese; then v?ork 
Into it one or two eggs, according to quantity. Butter and bread-crumb a plain 
mold, and when the maccaroni is nearly cold fill the mold with it, pressing it 
well do^m and leaving a hollow in the centre, into which place a well-flavored 
mince of meat, poultry or game; then fill up the mold with more maccaroni, 
pressed well down. Bake in a moderately heated oven, turn out and serve. 

MACCARONI A LA CREME. 

Boil one-quarter of a pound of maccaroni in plenty of hot water, salted, until 
tender: put half a pint of milk in a double boiler, and when it boils stir into it a 
mixture of two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, a little white and cayenne pepper; salt to taste, and from one- 
quarter to one-half a pound of grated cheese according to taste. Drain and dish 
the maccaroni; pour the boiling sauce over it, and serve immediately. 

MACCARONI AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

Divide half a pound of maccaroni into four-inch pieces, put it into boiling 
salted water enough to cover it; boil from fifteen to twenty minutes; then drain ^ 
arrange it neatly on a hot dish, and pour tomato sauce over it. and serve imme^ 
diat«ly while hot. See " Sauces" for tomato sauce. 



TO MAKE BUTTE8>^ 

Thoroughly scald the chum, then cool well with ice or spfffig wafeR 'Rb 
\i>oar in the thick cream; chum fast at first, then, aa the butter forms, more 
slowly; always with perfect regularity; in warm weather, pour a little cold 
water into the churn, should the butter form slowly; in winter, if the cream is' 
too cold, add a little warm water to biing it to the proper temperature. When 
the butter has " come," rinse the sides of the chum down with cold water, and 
take the butter up with the perforated dasher or a wooden ladle, turning ill 
'dexterously just below the siuf ace of the buttei-milk to catch every stray bit; 
;have ready some very cold water, in a deep wooden tray; and into this plunge 
the dasher when you draw it from the chum; the butter will float off, leaving 
the dasher free. When you have collected all the butter, gather behind a 
wooden butter ladle, and di-ain off the waterj'equeezing and pressing the butteij 
with the ladle; then pom- on more cold water, and work the butter with th«j 
ladle to get the milk out, drain off the water, sprinkle salt over the butter, — ^a 
tablespoonful to a pound; work it in a little, and set in a cool place for an hout, 
to harden, then -work and knead it until not another drop of water exudes, and 
the butter is perfect)^ smooth and close in texture_and polish; then with the 
gadle make up into rolls, little balls, stamped pats, etc, 

The chiu:n, dasher, tray and ladle, should be well scalded before using, so that 
the but^ will not stick to them, and then, cooled with very cold water. 

When you skim cream into your cream pv, stir it well into what is already 
there, so that it may'allsour alike; and no fresh cream should be put with it^ 
within twelve hours before churning, or the butter will not come quickly; and; 
perhaps, not at alL 

Butter is indispensable in almost all culinary preparations. Good, fresh 
^uttar. used in moderation, is easily digested: it is softening, nutritious, an^ 



BUrrSMfTAND CMEESB, 195 

fattening, and is far more easily digested than any other of the oleaginous sub- 
stances sometimes used in its place. 

TO MAKE BUTTER QUICKLY. 

Immediately after the cow is milked, strain into clean pans, and set it over a 
moderate fire .until it is scalding hot; do not ^et it bpil; then set it aside; when 
it is cold, skim off the cream; the milk will still be fit for any ordinary use; 
when you have enough cream, put it into a clean earthen basin; beat it with a 
wooden spoon until the butter is.made, which will not be long; then take it from 
the milk and work it with a little cold water, until it is free from milk; then 
drain off the water, put a small tablespoonful of iine salt to each pound of 
butter, and work it in. A small teaspoonf ul of fine white sugar, worked in with 
the salt, will be f oimd an improvement — sugar is a great preservative. Make 
the butter in a roll; cover it with a bit of muslin, and keep it in a; cool place. 
A. reliable recipe. 

A BRINE TO PRESERVE BUTTER, 

Krst work your butter into small rolls, wrappmg each one carefully in a 
clean muslin cloth, tying them up with a string. Make a brine, say three 
gallons, having it strong enough of salt to bear up an egg; add half a teacupful 
of pure, white sugar, and one tablespoonful of saltpetre; boil the brine, and when 
cold strain it carefully. Pour it over the rolls so as to more than cover them, 
as this excludes the air. Place a weight over all to keep the rolls under the 
surface. 

PUTTING UP BUTTER TO KEEP. 

Take of the best pure, common "Bait two quarts, one ounce of white sugar 

and one of saltpetre; pulverize them together completely. Work the butter 

well, then thoroughly work in an ounce of this mixture to every poimd of 

butter. The butter to be made into half-pound rolls, and put into the following 

brine— to three gallons of brine strong enough to bear an egg, add a quarter of 

a pound of white sugar. 

—Orange Co., N. Y., ityle. 

CURDS AND CREAM. 

One gallon of milk will make a moderate dish. Put one spoonful of prepared 
rennet to each quart of milk, and when you find that it has become curd, tie it 
k)oeely in a thin cloth and hang it to drain; do not wring or press the cloth; 
when drained, put the curd into a mug and set in cool water, which must be 
Crequently changed (a refrigerator saves this trouble.) When yon dish ft, if 



1 96 BVTTBR AND CHSBSM. 

there is whey in the mug, ladle it gently out without pressing the curd; lay it 
on a deep dish, and pour fresh cream over iti have powdered loaf -sugar to eat 
with it; also hand the nutmeg grater. 

Prepared rennet can be had at almost any druggist's, and at a reasonable 
price. Call for Crosse & Blackwell's Prepared Rennet. 

NEW JERSEY CREAM CHEESE. 

First scald the quantity of milk desired; let it coola little, then add the 
rennet; the directions for quantity are given on ihe packages of "Prepared 
Rennet." When the curd is formed, take it out on a ladle without breaking 
it; lay it on a thin cloth held by two persons; dash a ladleful of water over each 
ladleful of curd, to separate the curd; hang it up to drain the water off, and then 
put it uuder a light press for one hour; cut the curd with a thread into small 
pieces; lay a cloth between each two^ and press for an hour; take them out, ruh 
them with fine salt, let them lie on a board for an hoiu", and wash them in cold 
water; let them he to drain, and in a day or two the skin will look dry; put 
«ome sweet grass under and over them, and thgy will soon ripen; 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put a pan of sour or loppered milk on the stove or range, where it is not too 
hoi; let it scald until the ^vhey rLses to the top (be careful that it does not boil, 
or the curd will become hard and tough). Place a clean cloth or towel over a 
sieve, and pour this whey and curd into it, leaving it covered. to drain two to 
three hours; then put it into a dish and chop it fine with a spoon, adding a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of butter and enough sweet cream to make the 
cheese the consistency of putty. With your hands make it into little balls flat- 
tened. Keep it in a cool place. Many like it made rather thin with cream, 
serving it in a deep dish. You may make this cheese of sweet milk, by forming 
the curd with prepared rennet. 

SUP. 

Slip is bonny-clabber without its acidity, and so delicate is its flavor that 
many persons Uke it just as well as ice cream. It is prepared thus: Make a 
quait of milk moderately warm; then stir into it one large spoonful of the 
preparation called rennef ; set it by, and when cool again it wiH be as stiff as 
jeDy. It should be made only a few hours before it is to be used, or it will be 
tough and watery; in summer set the dish on ice after it has jellied. It must bo 
served with powdered sugar, nutmeg and cream. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 197 

CHEESE FONDU. 

Melt an ounce of butter, and whisk into it a pint of boiled milk. Dissolve 
two tablespoonfuls of flour in a gill of cold milk, add it to the boiled milk and 
let it cool. Beat the yolks of four eggs with a heaping teaspoonful of salt, half 
a teaspoonful of pepper, and five ounces of grated cheese. Whip the whites of 
the eggs and add them, pour the mixture into a deep tin lined with buttered 
paper, and allow for the rising, say four inches. Bake twenty minutes and 
eerve the moment it leaves the oven. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan; mix smoothly with it one ounce of 
flour, a pinch of salt and cayenne and a quarter of a pint of milk; simmer the 
mixture gently over the fire, stirring it all the time, till it is as thick as melted 
butter; stir into it about three ounces of finely-gi-ated parmesan, or any good 
cheese. Turn it into a basin, and mix with it the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. 
Whisk three whites to a solid froth, and just before the soufiie is baked put 
them into it, and pour the mixture into a small round tin. It should be only 
half filled, as the fondu will rise very high. Pin a napkin around the dish in 
which it is baked, and serve the moment it is baked. It would be well to have a 
metal cover strongly heated. Time twenty minutes. Sufficient for six persons. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

Any pereon who is fond of cheese could not faU to favor this recipe. 

Take three slices of bread, well-buttered, first cutting off the brown outsidf 
cmst. Grate fine a quarter of a pound of any kind of good cheese; lay the 
bread in layers in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle over it the grated cheese, 
some salt and pepper to taste. Mix fovu: well-beaten eggs with three cups of 
mOk; pour it over the bread and cheese. Bake it in a hot oven as you would 
cook a bread pudding. This makes an ample dish for four people. 

PASTRY RAMAKINS. 

Take the remains or odd pieces of any light puff-paste left from pies or tarts; 
gather up the pieces of paste, roll it out evenly, and sprinkle it with grated 
cheese of a nice flavor. Fold the paste in three, roll it out again, and sprinkle 
more cheese over; fold the paste, roll it out, and with a paste-cutter shape it in 
any way that may be desired. Bake the ramakins in a brisk oven from ten to 
fifteen minutes, dish them on a hot napkin, and serve quickly. The appearance 



198 BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

of this dish may be very much improved by brushing the ramaMns over witK 
yolk of egg before they are placed in the oven. Where expense is not objected 
to, parmesan is the best kind of cheese to use for making this dish. 
Very nice with a cup of coffee for a lunch. 

CAYENNE CHEESE STRAWS. 

A quarter of a pound of flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, a 
pinch of salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Mix into a paste with the 
yolk of an egg. Eoll out to the thickness of a silver q\aarter, about four or five 
Inches long; cut into strips about a third of an inch wide, twist them as you 
would a paper spill, and lay them on a baking-sheet slightly floured. Bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp, but they must not be the least brown. If put away 
hi a tin, these cheese straws will keep a long time. Serve cold, piled tastefully 
on a glass dish. You can make the straws of remnants of puff-pastry, rolling 
In the grated cheese. 

CHEESE CREAM TOAST. 

Stale bread may be served as follows: Toast the shces and cover them sUghtly 
with grated cheese; make a cream for ten shces out of a pint of milk and two 
tablespoonfuls of plain flour. The milk should be boiling, and the flour mixed 
in a Uttle cold water before stirring in. When the cream is nicely cooked, season 
with salt and butter; set the toast and cheese in the oven for three or four 
minutes, and then pour the cream over them. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Grate three oimces of dry cheese, and mix it with the yolks of two eggs, put 
four ounces of grated bread, and three of butter; beat the whole together in a 
mortar with a dessertspoonful of made mustard, a Uttle salt and some pepper; 
toast some shces of bread, cut off the outside crust, cut it in shapes and spread 
the paste thick upon them, and put them in the oven, let them become hot and 
slightly browned, serve hot as possible. 




Tlim-e are so many ways of cooking and dressing eggs, that it seems un- 
Oecessary for the ordinary family to use only those that are the most practical. 

To ascertain the freshness of an egg, hold it between your thumb and fore* 
finger in a horizontal position, with a strong light in front of you. The fresb 
egg will have a clear appearance, both upper and lower sides being the same. 
The stale egg will have a clear appearance at the lower side, while the upper side 
will exhibit a daik or cloudy appearance. 

Another test is to put them in a pan of cold water; those that are the flrst to 
sink are the freshest; the stale will rise and float on top; or, if the large end 
turns up in the water, they are not fresh. The best time for preserving eggs is 
from July to September. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

There are several recipes for preserving eggs, and we give first one which we 
know to be effectual, keeping thero fresh from August until Spring. Take a piece 
of quick-lime as large asagood-size(^ lemon, and twoteacupfulsof salt; put it into 
a large vessel and slack it with a gallon of boiling water. It will boil and bubble 
until thick as cream; when it is cold, poiu" off the top, which wUl be perfectly 
clear. Drain off this liquor, and pour it over your eggs; see that the liquor 
more than covers them. A stone jar is the most convenient; — one that holds 
about six quarts. 

Another manner of preserving eggs is to pack them in a jar with layers of 
salt between, the large end of the egg downward, with a thick layer of salt at 
the top; cover tightly, and set in a cool place. 

Some put them in a wire basket or a piece of mosquito net, and dip them in 
boiling water half a minute; then pack in saw-dust. Still another manner is to 
dissolve a cheap article of gum arable, about as thin as mucilage, and brush 
over each egg with it; then pack in powdered charcoal; set in a cooL dark placo. 



aoo ecGS. 

Eggs can be kept for some time by smearing the shells with butter oi- lard; 
then packed in plenty of bran or sawdust, the eggs not allowed to touch one 
another; or coat the eggs with melted paraffine. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Eggs for boiling cannot be too fresh, or boiled too soon after they are laid; 
but rather a longer time should be allowed for boiling a new-laid egg than for 
one that is three or four days old. Ha-ve ready a saucepan of boiling water: 
put the eggs into it gently with a spoon, letting the spoon touch the bottom of 
the sauce-pan before it is withdrawn, that the egg may not fall, and conse- 
quently clack. For those who like eggs lightly boiled, three minutes will be 
found sufficient", three and three-quarters to four minutes will be ample time to 
set the white nicely; and if liked hard, six or seven minutes will not be founJ 
too long. Should the eggs be unusually large, as those of black Spapish fowls 
sometimes are, allow an extra half minute for them. Eggs for salad should be 
boiled for ten or fifteen minutes, and should be placed in a basin of cold water 
for a few minutes, to shrink the meat from the shell; they should then be rolled 
on the table with the hand, and the shell will peel off easily. 

SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

When properly cooked, eggs are donf evenly through, like any other food. 
This result may be obtained by putting the egg into a dish with a cover, or a tin 
pail, and then pouring upon them boiling water — two quarts or more to a dozen 
of eggs — and cover and set them away where they will keep liot and not boil, for 
ten to twelve minutes. The heat of the water cooks the eggs slowly, evenly and 
sufficiently, leaving the centre, or yolk, harder than the white, and the egg tastes 
as much richer and nicer as a fresh egg is nicer than a stale egg. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Hard-boil twelve eggs; slice them thin in rings; in the bottom of a lai^ 
well-buttered baldng-dish place a layer of grated bread-crumbs, then one of 
eggs; cover with bits of butter, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Continue 
thus to blend these ingi-edients \mtil the dish is full; be sure, though, that the 
crumbs cover the eggs upon top. Over the whole pour a large teacupful of 
sweet cream or milk, and brown nicely in a moderately heated oven. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 
Set into the oven imtil quite hot a common white dish, large enough to hold 
the number of eggs to be cooked, allowing, plenty of room for each- Melt in it a 



BGGS. toi 

Bman.piece of butter, and breaking the eggs carefully in a saucer, one at a time, 
slip them into the hot dish; sprinkle over them a small quantity of pepper and 
salt, and allow them to cook fotir or five minutes. Adding a tablespoonful of 
cream for every two eggs, when the eggs are first slipped in, is a great improve- 
ment. 

This is far more deUcate than fried eggs. 

Or prepare the eggs the same, and set them in a steamer, over boiling water. 

They are usually served in hotels baked in individual dishes, about two in a 
dish, and in the same dish they were baked in. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter into a hot frying-pan; tip around so that it will 
touch all sides of the pan. Having ready half a dozen eggs broken in a dish. 
Baited and peppered, turn them (without beating) into the hot butter; stir them 
one way briskly for five or six minutes or until they are mixed. Be careful that 
they do not get too hard. Turn over toast or dish up without. 

POACHED OR DROPPED EGGS. 

Have one quart of boiling water, and one tablespoonful of salt, in a frying- 
pan. Break the eggs, one by one, into a saucer, and slide carefully into the 
salted water. Dash with a spoon a Uttle water over the egg, to keep the top 
white. 

The beauty of a poached egg is for the yolk to be seen blushing through tho 
white, which should only be just sufficiently hardened to form a transparent veD 
for the egg. 

Cook until the white is firm, and lift out with a griddle-cake turner, and place 
on toasted bread. Serve immediately. 

A tablespoonful of vinegar put into the water, keeps the eggs from spreading. 

Open gem rings are nice placed in the water and an egg dropped into each 
ring. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Break the eggs, on& at a time, into a saucer, and then slide them carefully 
oflE into a frying-pan of lard and butter mixed, dipping over the egg? the hot 
grease in spoonfuls, or turn them over-frying both sides without breaking them. 
They requii-e about three minutes' cooking. 

, Eggs can be fried roimd like balls, by dropping one at a time into a quantity 
vf hot lard, the same as for fried cakes, first stirring the hot lard with a stick 
until it runs roimd like a whirlpool; this will make the eggs look like balls. 
Take out with a skimmer. I^ps can be poached the same in bdling water. ^ 



cot 



£OGS 



EGGS AUX FINES HERBEb. 

Roll aa ounce of butter in a good tesispoonful of flour; season with pepper, 
saU and nutmeg: put it into a coffeecupf ul of fresh milk, together with two tea- 
spoonfuls of chopped pai'sley; stir and simmer it for fifteen minutes, add a 
tPiacupful of thick cream. Hard-boil five eggs, and halve them; arrange them 
in a dish with the ends upwards, pour the sauce over them, and decorate with 
little heaps of fried bread-cr abs roimd the margin of the dish. 

POACHED EGGS A LA CR£ME. 

Put a quart of hot water, a tablespoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt 
Into a fr>'ing-pan, and break each egg separately into a saucer; slip the egg care- 
rfufly into the hot water, simmer three or four minutes until the white is set, 
then with a skimmer lift them out into a hot dish. Empty the pan of its 
Contents, put in half a cup of cream, or rich milk; if milk, a large spoonful of 
butter; pepper and salt to taste, thicken with a very little cornstarch; let it boil 
up once, and turn it over the dish of poached eggs. It can be served on toast or 
„without 

It is a better plan to warm the cream and butter in a separate dish, that the 
eggs may not have to standi, 

EGGS IN CASES. 

Make hitle paper cases of buttered writing paper; put ai'small piece of butter 
in each, and a Uttle chopped parsley or onion, pepper and salt. Place the cases 
upon a gridiron over a moderate fire of bright coals, and when the butter melts, 
break a fresh egg into each case. Strew ia upon them a few seasoned biead- 
crumbs, and when nearly done, glaze the tops with a hot^hovel. Serve in the 
paper cases. 

MINCED EGGS. 

Chop up'four or five hard-boiled eggs; do not mince them too fine. Put over 
the fire in a suitable dish a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper, and some savory chopped small When this conies to a boil, stir into il 
a tablespoonful of flour, dissolved in a little cold milk. When it cooks thick like 
cream, put in the minced eggs. Stir it geutly around and around for a few 
moments, and serve, garnished with sippets of toast. Any paitfcular flavor may 
be given to this dish, such as that of mushrooms, truffles, catsup, essence of, 
•brimps. etc.. or some shred anchovy may be added to the minoOv 



BtSGS. ao3 

MIXED EGGS AND BACON. 
Take a nice rasher of tnild bacon; cut it into squares no larger than dice; fry 
it quickly until nicely browned, but on no account bum it. Break half a dozen 
eggs into a basin, strain and season them with pepper, add them to the bacon, 
etir the whole about, and, when su£Qciently firm, turn it out into a dish. Decorate 
with hot pickles. 

MIXED EGGS GENERALLY.— SAVORY OR SWEET. 

Much the same method is followed m mixed eggs generally, whatever may 
be added to them; really it is nothing more than an omelet which is stirred about 
in the pan while it is being dressed, instead of beiag allowed to set as a pancake. 
Chopped tongue, oysters, shrimps, sardines, dried salmon, anchovies, herbs, may 
boused. 

COLD EGGS FOR A PICNIC. 

This novel way of preparing cold egg for the lunch-basket fully repays one 
for the extra time required. Boil hard several eggs, halve them lengthwise; 
remove the yolks and chop them fine with cold chicken, lamb, veal or any 
tender, roasted meat; or with bread soaked in milk, and any salad, as parsley, 
onion, celery, the bread being half of the wbole; or with grated cheese, a Uttle 
olive oil, drawn butter, flavored. Fill the cavity in the egg with either of these 
mixtures, or any similar preparation. Press the halves together, roll twice in 
beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and dip into boiling lard. When the color rises 
delicately, drain them and they are ready for use. 

OMELETS. 
In making an omelet, care should be taken that the omelet pan is hot and 
dry. To ensure this, put a small quantity of lard or suet into a clean frying- 
pan, let it simmer a few minutes, then remove it; wipe the pan dry with a 
towel, and then put in a tablespoonf ul of butter. 'She smoothness of the pan is 
most essential, as the least particle of roughness will cause the omelet to sticki 
As a general rule, a small omelet can be made more successfully than a large 
one, it being much better to make two small ones of four eggs each, than to try 
double the number of eggs in one omelet and fail. Allow one egg to a person in 
making au omelet and one tablespoonful of milk; this makes an omelet more 
puffy and tender than one made without milk. Many prefer them without 
milk. 

Omelets are called by the name of what is added to give them flavor, as 
14 



304 ^^'^° 

minced ham, salmon, onions, oysters, etc., beaten up in the eggs in due quan- 
tity, which gives as many different kinds of omelets. 

They are also served over many kinds of thick sauces or purees, such a& 
tomatoes, spinach, endive, lettuce, celery, etc. 

K vegetahles. are to be added, they should be already cooked, seasoned and 
hot; place in the centre of the omelet, just before turning; so with mushroom, 
shrimps, or any cooked ingredients. All omelets should be served the moment 
they are done, as they harden by standing, and care taken that they do not cooh 
too much. 

tiweet omelets are generally used for breakfast or plain desserts. 

PLAIN OMELET. 

Put a smooth, clean, iron frying-pan on the fire to heat; meanwhile, beat 
four eggs, very light, the whites to a stiff froth, and the yolks to a thick batter. 
Add to the yolks four tablespoonfuls of milk, pepper and salt; and lastly stir in 
the whites lightly. Put a piece of butter neariy half the size of an egg into the 
heated pan; turn it so that it will moisten the entire bottom, taking care that it 
does not scorch. Just as it begins to boil, pour in the eggs. Hold the frying- 
pan handle in your left hand, and, as tje eggs whiten, carefully, with a spoon, 
draw up lightly from the bottom, letting the raw part run out on th6 pan, 
till all be equally cooked; shake with your left hand, till the omelet be free from 
the pan, then turn with a spoon 9ne half of the omelet over the other; let it 
remain a moment, but continue shaking, lest :t adhere; toss to a warm platter 
held in the right hand, or lift with a flat, broad shovel; the omelet will be fiiffl 
around the edge, but creamy and hght inside. 

MEAT OR FISH OMELETS. 

Take cold meat, fish, game or poultry of any kind; remove all skin, sinew, 
etc., and either cut it small or pound it to a paste in a mortar, together with a 
proper proportion of spices and salt; then either toss it in a buttered frying-pan 
over a clear fire till it begins to brown, and pour beaten eggs upon it, or beat it 
up. with the eggs, or spread it upon them after they have begun to set in the 
pan. In any case serve hot, with or without a sauce; but garnished with crisp 
herbs in branches, pickles, or sliced lemon. The right proportion is one table- 
spoonful of meat to four egga. A little milk, gravy, water or white wine, 
may be advantageously added to the eggs while they are being beaten. 

i'otted meats make admirable omelets in the above manner. 



EGGS, 105 

VEGETABLE OMELET. 

Make a pur6e by mashing up ready-dressed vegetables, together with a little 
milk, cream or gravy, and some seasoning. The most suitable vegetables are 
cucumbers, artichokes, onions, sorrel, green peas, tomatoes, lentils, mushrooms, 
asparagus tops, potatoes, truffles or turnips. Prepare some eggs by beating 
them very Ught. Pour them into a nice hot frying-pan, containing a spoonful 
of butter; spread the pur6e upon the upper side; and when perfectly hot, turn 
or fold the omelet together and serve. Or cold vegetables may be merely chopped 
small, then tossed in a little butter, and some beaten and seasoned eggs poured 
over. 

OMELET OF HERBS. 

Parsley, th3rme, and sweet marjoram mixed gives the famous omelette aux 
fines herbes so popular at every wayside inn in the most remote comer of sunny 
France. An omelet " jardiniere " is two tablespoonfuls of mixed parsley, onion, 
chives,, shalbts and a few leaves each of sorrel and chevril, minced fine and 
stirred into the beaten eggs before cooking. It will take a little more butter to 
fry it than a plain one. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Beat up three eggs, and add to them a tablespoonful of milk and a table- 
spoonful of grated cheese; add a little more cheese before folding; turn it out 
on a hot dish; grate a Uttle cheese over it before serving. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET. 

Boil with a Uttle salt, and until about half cooked, eight or ten stalks of 
asparagus, and ciit the eatable part into rather small pieces; beat the eggs, and 
mix the asparagus with them. Make the omelet as above directed. 

Omelet with parsley is made by adding a httle chopped parsley. 

TOMATO OMELET. No. 1. 
Peel a couple of tomatoes, which spbt into four pieces; remove the seeds, and 
cut them into small dice; then fi-y them with a httle butter until nearly done, 
adding salt and pepper. Beat the eggs and mix the tomatoes with them, and 
make the omelet as usuaL Or, stew a few tomatoes in the usual wa^ and spread 
over before folding. 

TOMATO OMELET. No. 2. 
Cut in shces and place in a stew-pan six peeled tomatoes; add a tablespoonful 
of cold wat^r, a little pepper, and salt. When they begin to simmer, break in 



M36 SGGS. 

•ix eggs, snr well, stirring one way, until the eggs are cooked, but not too bard. 
Serve warm. 

RICE OMELET. 

Take a cupful of cold boiled rice, turn over it a cupful of warm milk, add a 
tablespoonful of butter melted, a level teaspoonful of salC, a dash of pepper, 
Biix well, taen add three well-beaten eggs. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a 
hot frying-pan, and when it begins to boil pour in the omelet and set the pan 
in a hot oven. As soon as it is cooked through, fold it double, turn it out on a 
hot dish, and serve at once. Very good. 

HAM OMELET. 

Cut raw ham into dice, fry ^v-ith butter, and when cooked enough, tuni the 
beaten egg over it, and cook as a plain omelet. 

If boiled ham is used, mince it, and mix with the eggs after they axe beaten. 
Bacon may be used instead of raw ham. 

CHICKEN OMELET. 
Mince rather fine one cupful of cooked chicken, warm in a teacupful of 
cream or rich milk, a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper; thicken with a 
large tablespoonful of flour. Make a plain omelet, then add this mixture, jiist 
before turning it over. This is much better than the dry minced chicken. 
Tongue is equally good. 

MUSHROOM OMELET 

Clean a cupful of large button mushrooms, canned ones may be used; cut 
them into bits. Put into a stew-pan an ounce of butter and let it melt; add the 
mushrooms, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a cupful 
of cream or milk. Stir in a teaspoonful of flour, dissolved in a little milk or 
water to thicken, if needed. Boil ten minutes, and set aside until the omelet is 
ready, 

Make a plain omelet the usual way, and just before doubling it, turn the 
mushrooms over the centre and serve hot. 

OYSTER OMELET 

Parboil a dozen oysters in their own Uquor, skim them out, and let them 
cool; add them to the beaten eggs, either whole or minced. Cook the same ae 
a plain omelet. 

Thicken the liquid with butter rolled in flour; season with salt, cayenne 
pepper and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Chop up the oysters and add to 



EGGS i07 

the sauce. Put a few spoonfuls in the centre of the omelet before folding; when 
diahed, pour the remainder of the sauce around it. 

FISH OMELET. 
Make a plain omelet, and when ready to fold, spread over it fish prepared as 
follows: Add to a cupful of any kind of cold fish, broken fine, cream enough to 
moisten it, seasoned with a tablespoonful of butter; then pepper and salt to taste. 
Warm together. 

ONION OMELET. 
Make a plain omelet, and when ready to turn spread over it a teaspoonful 
each of chopped onion and minced parsley; then fold, or, if prepared, mix the 
minces into the eggs before cooking. 

JELLY OMELET. 
Make a plain omelet, and just before folding together, spread with some kind 
of jelly. Turn out on a warm platter. Dust it with powdered sugar, 

BREAD OMELET No. i. 
Break four eggs into a basin and carefully remove the treadles; have ready a 
tablespoonful of grated and sifted bread; soak it in either milk, water, cream, 
white wine, gravy, lemon-juice, brandy or rum, according as the omelet ia 
intended to be sweet or savory. Well beat the eggs together with a little nut- 
meg, pepper and salt; add the bread, and, beating constantly (or the omelet will 
be crumbly), get ready a fr3ring-pan, buttered and made thoroughly hot; put in 
the omelet; do it on one side only; turn it upon a dish, and fold it double to 
prevent the steam from condensing. Stale sponge-cake, grated biscuit, or 
pound cake, may replace the bread for a sweet omelet, when pounded loaf sugar 
should be sifted over it, and the dish decorated with lumps of currant jelly. This 
makes a nice dessert. 

BREAD OMELET. No. 2. 
Let one teacup of milk come to a boil, pour it over one teacupful of bread- 
crumbs and let it stand a few minutes. Break six eggs into a bowl, stir (not 
beat) till well mixed; then add the milk and bread, season with pepper and salt, 
mix all well together and turn into a hot fr)'ing-pan, containing a large spo<Jnfu] 
of butter boiling hot. Fry the omelet slowly, and when brown on the bottom 
cut in squares and turn again, fry to a delicate brown and serve h 
" Cracker omelet may be made by substituting three or four rolled a«ckers ia 
place of bread. 



aof seas. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Beat the whites and yolks of four or six eggs separately; add to the yolks a 
email cup of milk, a tablcspoonf ul of flour or cornstarch, a teaspoonful of baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and lastly, the stiff-beaten whites. Bake 
in a well buttered pie- tin or plate, about half an hour in a steady oven. 

It should be served the moment it is taken from the oven, as it is liable to fall 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Break six eggs into separate cups; beat four of the yolks, mix with them one 
teaspoonful of flour, three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, very little salt. 
Flavor with extract lemon or any other of the flavors that may be preferred 
Whisk the whites of six eggs to a firm froth; mix them lightly with the yolks;. 
pour the mixture into a greased pan or dish; bake in a quick oven. When well- 
risen and lightly browned on the top, it is dune; roll out in warm dish, sift pul- 
verized sugar over, and send to table. 

RUM OMELET. 

Put a small quantity of lard into the pan ; let it simmer a few minutes, and 
remove it; wipe the pan dry with a towel, and put in a little fresh lard in which 
the omelet may be fried. Care should be taken that the lard does not burn, 
which would spoil the color of the omelet. Break three eggs separately; put 
them into a bowl and whisk them thoroughly with a fork. The longer they 
are beaten, the lighter will the omelet be. Beat up a teaspoonful of milk with 
the eggs and continue to beat until the last moment before pouring into the pan, 
which should be over a hot fire. As soon as the omelet sets, remove the pan 
from the hottest part of the fire. Slip a knife under it to prevents sticking to the 
pan.- When the centre is almost firm, slant the pan, work the omelet in shape 
to fold easily and neatly, and when slightly browned, hold a platter against the 
edge of the pan and deftly turn it out on to the hot dish. Dust a liberal quan- 
tity of powdered sugar over it, and singe the sugar into neat stripes with a hot 
iron rod, heated in the coals; pour a glass of warm Jamaica rum around it, 
and when it is placed on the table set fire to the rum. With a tablespoon 
dash the burning rum over the omelet, put out the fire and serve. Salt 
mixed with the eggs prevents them from rising, and when it is so used, the 
omelet will look flabby, yet without salt it will taste insipid. Add a little 
salt to it just before folding it and turning eat on the dish. 

—" The eook." 



HAM SANDWICHES. 

Make a dressing of half a cup of butter, one tablespoonful of mixed mustard, 
one of salad oil, a little red or white pepper, a pinch .of salt and the yolk of an 
e^; rub the butter tp a cream, add the other ingredients and mix thoroughly; 
then stir in as much chopped ham as will make it consistent, and spread between 
thin slices of bread. Omit salad oil and substitute melted butter, if preferred. 

HAM SANDWICHES, PLAIN. 
Trim the crusts from thin slices of bread; butter them, and lay between every 
two some thin slices of cold, boiled ham. Spread the meat with a little mustard. 
If liked 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Mince up fine any cold boiled or roasted chicken; put it into a sauce-pan with 
gravy, water or cream enough to soften it; add a good piece of butter, a pinch 
of pepper; work it very smooth while it is heating until it looks almost like a 
paste. Then spread it on a plate to cooL Spread it between slices of buttered 
bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. . 

Take two boxes of sardines, and throw the contents into hot water, having 
first drained away all the oiL A few minutes will free the sardines from grease. 
Pour away the water and dry the fish in a cloth; then scrape away the skins, 
and pound the sardines in a mortax till reduced to paste; add pepper, salt, and 
some tiny pieces of lettuce, and sproEid on the sandwiches, which have been pre- 
viously cut as above. The lettuce adds very much to the flavor of the sardines. 

Or chop the sardines up fine and squeeze a few drops of lemon- juice into them 
and q>read between buttered bread or cold biscuits. 



no SANDWICHES. 

WATERCRESS SANDWICHES. 

Wash weU some watercress, and then dry them in a cloth, pressing out every 

atom of moisture, as far as possible; then mix with the cresses hard-boiled eggs 

chopped fine, 8ind seasoned with salt and pepper. Hfive a stale loaf and some 

fresh butter, and with a sharp knife, cut as many thin slices as will be required 

for two dozen sandwiches; then cut the cress into small pieces, removing the 

stems; place it between each slice of bread and butter, with a slight sprinkling 

of lemon- juice; press down the slices hard, and cut them sharply on a board into 

small squares, leaving no crust 

— Nanlasket Beach. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Hard bofl some very fresh eggs, and when cold, cut them into moderately 
thin slices, and lay them between some bread and butter cut as thin as possible; 
season them with pepper, salt and nutmeg. T'or picnic parties, or when one is 
travelling, these sandwiches are far preferable to bard-boiled eggs au naturd. 

MUSHROOM SANDWICHES. 

Mmce beef tongue and boiled mushrooms together, add French mustard, and 
spread between buttered bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

These are extremely nice, and are very easily made. Take one hard-boiled 
egg, a quarter of a pound of common cheese grated, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and one tablespoonful of vinegar or cold water. Take the yolk 
of the fgg and put it into a small bowl and crumble it down, put into it the 
butter and mix it smooth with a spoon, then add the salt, pepper, mustard, and 
the cheese, mixing each well. Then put in the tablespoonful of vinegar, which 
will make it the proper thickness. If vinegar is not reUshed, then use cold 
water instead. Spread this between two biscuits or pieces of oat-cake, and you 
could, not require a better .sandwich. Some people will prefer the sandwiches 
less highly seasoned. la that case, season to taste. 




T^ * * 

Among all civilized people bread has become an article of food of the 
first necessity ; and properly so, for it constitutes of itself a complete life 
sustainer, the gluten, starch and sugar which it contains representing 
ozotized and hydro-carbonated nutrients, and combining the sustaining 
powers of the animal and vegetable kingdoms in one product. As there is 
no one article of food that enters so largely into our daily fare as bread, so 
no degree of skill in preparing other articles can compensate for lack of 
knowledge in the art of making good, palatable and nutritious bread. A 
little earnest attention to the subject will enable anyone to comprehend the 
theory, and then ordinary care in practice will make one familiar with the 
process. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

The first thing required for making wholesome bread is the utmost 
cleanliness ; the next is the soundness and sweetness of all the ingredients 
used for it ; and, in addition to these, there must be attention and care 
through the whole process. 

In mixing with milk, the milk should be boiled — not simply scalded, but 
heated to boiling over hot water — then set aside to cool before mixing. 
Simple heating will not prevent bread from turning sour in the rising, while 
boiling will act as a preventive. So the milk should be thoroughly scalded, 
and should be used when it is just blood warm. 

Too small a proportion of yeast, or insufficient time allowed for the dough 
to rise, will cause the bread to be heavy. 

The yeast must be good and fresh if the bread is to be digestible and 
nice. Stale yeast produces, instead of vinous fermentation, an acetous fer- 
mentation, which flavors the bread and makes it disagreeable. Poor yeast 

fan) 



212 BREAB. 

produces an is^rfect fermentation, the result being a heavy, unwhole- 
some loaf. 

If either the sponge or the dough be permitted to overwork itself — that 
is to say, if the mixing and kneading be neglected when it has reached 
the proper point for either — sour bread will probably be the conse- 
quence in warm weather, and bad bread in any. The goodness will also be 
endangered by placing it so near a fire as to make any part of it hot, instead 
of maintaining the gentle and equal degree of heat required for its due fer- 
mentation. 

Heavy bread will also most likely be the result of making the dough very 
hard, and letting it become quite cold, particularly in winter. 

An almost certain way of spoiling dough is to leave it half -made, and to 
allow it to become cold before it is finished. The other most common causes 
of failure are using yeast which is no longer sweet, or which has been frozen, 
or has had hot liquid poured over it. 

As a general rule, the oven for baking bread should be rather quick, and 
the heat so regulated as to penetrate the dough without hardening the out- 
side. The oven-door should not be opened after the bread is put in until the 
[lough is set or has become firm, as the cool air admitted will have an unfavor- 
ible effect on it. 

The dough should rise and the bread begin to brown after about fifteen 
ninutes, but only slightly. Bake from fifty to sixty minutes, and have it 
brawn, not black or whitey brown, but brown all over when well baked. 

When the bread is baked, remove the loaves immediately from the pans, 
ind place them where the air will circulate freely around them and thus carry 
off the gas which has been formed, but is no longer needed. 

Never leave the bread in the pan or on a pine table to absorb the odor of 
4ie wood. If you like crusts that are crisp do not cover the loaves; but to 
i^ive the soft, tender, waffer-like consistency which many prefer, wrap them, 
(vhile still hot, in several thicknesses of bread-cloth. When cold put them 
»n a stone jar, removing the cloth, as that absorbs the moisture and gives the 
bread an unpleasant taste and odor. Keep the jar well covered, and care- 
fully cleansed from crumbs and stale pieces. Scald and dry it thoroughly 
tvery two or three days. A yard and a half square of coarse table linen 
makes the best bread-cloth. Keep a good supply; use them for no other 
purpose. 

Some people use scalding water in making wheat bread ; in that case the 
flour must be scalded and allowed to cool before the yeast is added, — then 



JSR£AD. 2J3 

proceed as above. Bread made in this manner keeps moist in summer, muob 
longer than when made in the usual mode. 

Compressed yeast is better than any other. It is sold in all grocery 
stores, makes fine light, sweet bread, and is a much quicker process, and can 
always be had fresh, being delivered every day. 

WHEAT BREAD. 

Sift the flour into a large bread-pan or bowl ; making a hole in the mid- 
dle of it, and put in one cake of Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast, dissolved 
in one-half cup of lukewarm water to two quarts of flour ; stir the yeasi 
lightly, then pour in your " wetting," either milk or water, as you choose, — ■ 
which use warm in winter, and cold in summer ; if you use water as " wet- 
ting," dissolve in it a bit of butter of the size of an &^,^i — if you use milk, 
no butter is necessary ; stir in the " wetting " very lightly, but do not mix 
all the flour into it ; then cover the pan with a thick blanket or towel, and 
set it, in winter, in a warm place to rise, — this is called '■'■putting the bread 
in sponge." In summer the bread should not be wet over night. In the 
morning add a teaspoonf ul of salt and mix all the flour in the pan with tha 
sponge, kneading it well ; then let it stand two hours or more until it has 
risen quite light ; then remove the dough to the molding-board and mold 
it for a long time, cutting it in pieces and molding them together again and 
again, until the dough is elastic under the pressure of your hand, using aa 
little flour as possible ; then make it into loaves, put the loaves into baking- 
tins. The loaves should come half-way up the pan, and they should be 
allowed to rise until the bulk is doubled. When the loaves are ready to 
be put into the oven, the oven should be ready to receive them. It should 
be hot enough to brown a teaspoonful of flour in five minutes. The heal 
should be greater at the bottom than at the top of the oven, and the fire so 
arranged as to give suflScient strength of heat through the baking without 
being replenished. Let them stand ten or fifteen minutes, prick them three 
or four times with a fork, bake in a quick oven from forty-five to sixtj 
minutes. 

After making bread a few times the cook will become familiar with the 
appearance of the dough, and can then safely vary the time, and try anj 
other experiments that her ingenuity may suggest. 

Keep well covered in a tin box or large stone crook, which should be 
wiped out every day or two, and scalded and dried thoroughly in the sun 
once a week. 



2t<, BRBAtk 



BREAD. 



Use for two loaves of bread three quarts of sifted flour, nearly a quart of 
warm water, a level tablespoonful of salt, and one cake of Fleisohmann's 
compressed yeast. Dissolve the yeast in a pint of lukewarm water ; then 
stir into it enough flour to make a thick batter. Cover the bowl containing 
the batter or sponge with a thick folded cloth, and set it in a warm place to 
rise ; if the temperature of heat is properly attended to, the sponge will be 
toamy and light in half an hour. Now stir into this sponge the salt dis- 
solved in a little warm water, add the rest of the flour and sufficient warm 
water to make the dough stiff enough to knead ; then knead it from five to 
ten minutes, divide it into loaves, knead again each loaf and put them into 
buttered baking-tins ; cover them with a doubled thick cloth, and set again 
in a warm place to rise twice their height, then bake the same as any bread. 
This bread has the advantage of that made of home-made yeast as it is made 
inside of three hours, whereas the other requires from twelve to fourteen 
hours. 

SALT-RAISING BREAD. 

While getting breakfast in the morning, as soon as the tea-kettle has 
boiled, take a quart tin cup or an earthen quart milk pitcher, scald it, then 
fill one- third full of water about as warm as the finger could be held in; 
then to this add a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of brown sugar and coarse 
flour enough to make a batter of about the right consistency for griddle- 
cakes. Set the cup, with the spoon in it, in a closed vessel half-filled with 
water moderately hot, but not scalding. Keep the temperature as nearly 
even as possible, and add a teaspoonful of flour once or twice during the 
process of fermentation. The yeast ought to reach to the top of the bowl in 
about five hours. Sift your flour into a pan, make an opening in the centre, 
and pour in your yeast. Have ready a pitcher of warm milk, salted, or milk 
and water, (not too hot or you will scald the yeast germs,) and stir rapidly 
into a pulpy mass with a spoon. Cover this sponge closely, and keep warm 
for an hour, then knead into loaves, adding flour to make the proper consist- 
ency. Place in warm, well-greased pans, cover closely, and leave till it is 
light. Bake in a steady oven, and when done let all the hot steam escape. 
Wrap closely in damp towels, and keep in closed earthen jars until it is 
wanted. 

This in our grandmothers' time used to be considered the prize bread, on 
account of its being sweet and wholesome, and required no prepared yeast 



BREAD. 21 e 

to make it. Nowaaays yeast-bread is made with very little trouble, as 
Fleischmann's yeast can be procured at almost any grocery. 

CONCORD BREAD. 

The recipe for the far-famed Concord Bread is as follows. 

This rule is more elaborate than the preceding ones and takes more time, 
but the results are excellent. 

Use one quart of milk, lard the size of an egg, or, what is its equivalent 
in actual measurement, a rounded tablespoonful, two quarts of flour, one of 
them even, the other a heaping quart; one cake of Fleischmann's Compressed 
Yeast, a heaping teaspoonful of salt, and an even teaspoonful of white 
sugar. Dissolve the yeast and sugar in a very little tepid water, just as little 
as possible ; scald the lard in the milk, add the salt, and when cool, add 
to the yeast, and stir in the flour to make a rather stiff dough, but do not 
knead. Let it rise over night ; in the morning, the very first thing, stir it 
down, and when it is risen again do not knead, but shake with the flour on 
the board, take out the dough and work with the hands just enough to make 
it smooth and free from the flour ; put into the pans to rise again, and bake 
from thirty to forty minutes, according to the size of the loaves, having the 
oven very hot when the bread is first put in. 

BUTTERMILK BREAD, 

Sift enough flour into a quart of hot buttermilk to make a thick batter ; 
add a cake of Fleischmann's yeast, which has been dissolved in lukewarm 
water, and set to rise. When light, work in half a teaspoonful of soda which 
has been dissolved thoroughly in a tablespoonful of warm water, and add a 

teaspoonful of salt. 

MILK BREAD. 

To a quart of warm new milk add a cake of Fleischmann's yeast which 
has been dissolved in a little lukewarm water, and a tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Stir into this a pint of sifted flour, a dessertspoonful of sugar and 
half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat well, and set to rise. When light, work in 
flour enough to make a firm dough. Raise again, place in pans ; raise again, 
and bake in a moderately slow oven. 

POTATO BREAD, 

Pare and boil six medium-sized potatoes, pour ofE the water, and mash 
fine. Dissolve one cake of Fleischmann's yeast in a quart of lukewarm 



2l6 BREAD, 

tnilk, and mix into it the mashed potatoes. Strain, and add half a table- 
Spoonful each of sugar, butter and lard, one and a half teaspoonfuls of salt 
md enough flour to make a soft batter. Set to rise, and when light add 
sufficient flour to make a medium stiff dough. Knead well, put into pans 
md set to rise. When well risen, bake in a moderately quick oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One cupful of wheat flour, one-half teacupf ul of Porto Rico molasses, one- 
half cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in half a teaoupful of lukewarm 
water, one teaspoonf ul of salt, one pint of warm water ; add sufficient Graham 
flour to make the dough as stifE as can be stirred with a strong spoon ; this 
Is to be mixed at night ; in the morning, mix well, and pour into two medium- 
sized pans ; they will be about half full ; let it stand in a warm place until it 
rises to the top of the pans, then bake one hour in a pretty hot oven. 

This should be covered about twenty minutes when first put into the 
Oven with a thick brown paper, or an old tin cover ; it prevents the uppei 
urust hardening before the loaf is well-risen. If these directions are cor^ 
rectly followed the bread will not be heavy or sodden, as it has been tried 
for years and never failed. 

GRAHAM BREAD. (Unfermented.) 
Stir together three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three cups oJ 
Grraham flour, and one cup of white flour ; then add a large teaspoonful ol 
Halt and half a cup of sugar. Mix all thoroughly with milk or water into 
IS stiff a batter as can be stirred with a spoon. If water is used, a lump oi 
butter as large as a walnut may be melted and stirred into it. Bake immedi- 
ately in well-greased pans. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 
One pint of rye flour, one quart of corn-meal, one teacupful of Graham 
flour, all fresh ; half a teacupful of molasses or brown sugar, a teaspoonful 
of salt, and one cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in lukewarm water 
Mix into as stiff a dough as can be stirred with a spoon, using warm watei 
For wetting. Let it rise several hours, or over night ; in the morning, oj 
when light, beat it well and turn it into well-greased, deep bread-pans 
md let it rise again. Bake in a moderate oven from three to four hours. 

— Palmer Souse, Chicago. 
BOSTON BROWN BREAD. (Unfermented.) 
One cupful of rye flour, two cupfuls of corn-meal, one cupful of whit< 
flour, half a teacupful of molasses or sugar, a teaspoonful of salt. Stir al! 



BREAD. 



2\'J 



together thoroughly, and wet up with sour milk ; then add a leve. teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of water. The same can be made ol 
Bweet milk, by substituting baking-powder for soda. The batter to be 
stirred as thick as can be with a spoon, and turned into well-greased pans. 

VIRGINIA BROWN BREAD. 

One pint of corn-meal, pour over enough boiling water to thoroughly 
Bcald it ; when cool, add one pint of light, white bread sponge, mix well to- 
gether, add one cupful of molasses, and Graham flour enough to mold ; this 
will make two loaves ; when light, bake in a moderate oven one and a hali 
hours. 

RHODE ISLAND BROWN BREAD. 

Two and one-half cupfuls of corn-meal, one and one-half cupfuls of rye- 
meal, one egg, one cup of molasses, one-half cake of Fleischmann's yeast, a 
little salt and one quart of milk. Bake in a covered dish, either earthen oi 
iron, in a moderately hot oven three hours. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One cup of white flour, two of Graham flour, two of Indian meal, one 
cake of Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast, one cup of molasses, three and a 
half cups of sweet milk, a little salt. Beat well and steam for four hours. 

This is improved by setting it into the oven fifteen minutes after it ia 
slipped from the mold. To be eaten warm with butter. Most excellent. 

RYE BREAD, 

To a quart of warm water stir as much wheat flour as will make a smooth 
batter ; stir into it a cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in half a cup oi 
lukewarm water, and set it in a warm place to rise-; this is called setting a 
sponge ; let it be mixed in some vessel which will contain twice the quantity ; 
in the morning, put three pounds and a half of rye flour into a bowl or tray, 
make a hollow in the centre, pour in the sponge, add a dessertspoonful of 
salt, and make the whole into a smooth dough, with as much warm water as 
may be necessary ; knead it well, cover it, and let it set in a warm place for 
three hours ; then knead it again, and make it into two or three loaves ; bake 
in a quick oven one hour, if made in two loaves, or less if the loaves are 
smaller. 



2ig BREAD, 

RYE AND CORN BREAD 

One quart of rye meal or rye flour, two quarts of lud'an meal, scalded 
(by placing in a pan and pouring over it just enough Jo»"W>4^' water to merely 
wet it, but not enough to make it into a batter, stirring constantly with a 
spoon), one-half cup of molasses, two teaspoonfuls salt, ona cake of Fleisch- 
mann's yeast dissolved in lukewarm water ; nia&d i.t ?tS f3tifE a6 can be stirred 
with a spoon, mixing with warm water, and let rise all night. In the morn- 
ing put it in a large pan, smooth the top with the hand dipped in cold water ; 
let it stand a short time, and bake five or six hours. If put in the oven late 
in the day, let it remain all night. 

Graham may be used instead of rye, and baked as above. 

This is similar to the " Rye and Injun " of our grandmothers' days, but 
that was placed in a kettle, allowed to rise, then placed in a covered iron pan 
upon the hearth before the fire, with coals heaped upon the lid, to bake all 
night. 

FRENCH BREAD. 

Beat together one pint of milk, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, or 
half butter and half lard, one cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in luke- 
warm water, one teaspoonful of salt and two eggs. Stir into this two quarts 
of flour. When this dough is risen, make into two large rolls, and bake as 
p,ny bread. Cut across the top diagonal gashes just before putting into the 
oven. 

TWIST BREAD. 

Let the bread be made as directed for wheat bread, then take three pieces 
as large as a pint bowl each ; strew a little flour over the paste-board or table, 
roll each piece under your hands, to twelve inches length, making it smaller 
in circumference at the ends than in the middle ; having rolled the three in 
this way, take a baking-tin, lay one part on it, join one end of each of the 
other two to it, and braid them together, the length of the rolls, and join the 
ends by pressing them together ; dip a brush in milk, and pass it over the top 
of the loaf ; after ten minutes or so, set it in a quick oven and bake for nearly 
an hour. 

NEW ENGLAND CORN CAKE. 

Oi le quart of milk, one pint of corn-meal, one teacupful of wheat flour, a 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Scald the milk, 
and gradually pour it on the meal ; when cool, add the butter and sail;, also 



BREAD. 219 

a half cake of Fleischmann's yeast. Do this at night ; in the morning beat 
thoroughly and add two well-beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered 
deep earthen plates, let it stand fifteen minutes to raise again, then bake 
from twenty to thirty minutes. 

GERMAN BREAD. 

One pint of milk well boiled, one teacupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of nice lard or butter, one cake of Fleischmann's yeast. Make a rising with 
the milk and yeast ; when light, mix in the sugar and shortening, with flour 
enough to make as soft a dough as can be handled. Flour the paste-board 
well, roll out about one-half inch thick ; put this quantity into two large 
pans ; make about a dozen indentures with the finger on the top ; put 
a small piece of butter in each, and sift over the whole one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar mixed with one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Let this stand for 
a second rising ; when perfectly light, bake in a quick oven fifteen 01 
twenty minutes. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two cups of sifted meal, half a cup of flour, two cups of sour milk, two 
well -beaten eggs, half a cup of molasses or sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Mix the meal and flour smoothly and 
gradually with the milk, then the butter, molasses, and salt, then the beaten 
eggs, and lastly dissolve a cake of Fleischmann's yeast in a little sweet milk 
and beat thoroughly all together. Bake nearly an hour in well -buttered 
tins, not very shallow. — St. Charles Hotel, New Orleans. 

VIRGINIA CORN BREAD. 

Three cups of white corn-meal, one cup of flour, one tablespoonful ol 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one cake of Fleischmann's yeast, one table- 
spoonful of lard, three cups of milk, and three eggs. Sift together the flour, 
corn-meal, sugar and salt ; rub in the lard cold, add the eggs well beaten 
and then the milk into which the yeast has been dissolved. Mix into a mod- 
erately stiff batter ; pour it into well-greased, shallow baking-pans (pie-tins 
are suitable). Bake from thirty to forty minutes. 

BOSTON CORN BREAD. 

One cup of sweet milk, two of sour milk, two-thirds of a cup of molas- 
ses, one of wheat flour, four of corn-meal, and one pake of Fleischmann's 
yeast ; steam for three hours, and brown a few minutes in the oven. 



J20 BREAD. 

INDIAN LOAF CAKE. 

Mix a teacupful of powdered white sugar with a quart of rich milk, and 
Jut up in the milk two ounces of butter, adding a saltspoonful of salt. Pul 
this mixture into a covered pan or skillet, and set it on the fire till it is 
Scalding hot. Then take it off, and scald with it as much yellow Indian meal 
(previously sifted) as will make it of the consistency of thick boiled mush, 
Beat the whole very hard for a quarter of an hour, and then set it awaj 
lio cool. 

While it is cooling, beat three eggs very light, and stir them gradually 
Into the mixture when it is about as warm as new milk. Add a teacupful 
of lukewarm water into which has been dissolved a cake of Fleischmann'j 
p^east and beat the whole another quarter of an hour, for much of the good- 
aess of this cake depends on its being long and well beaten. Then have 
ready a tin mold or earthen pan with a pipe in the centre (to diffuse the 
keat through the middle of the cake). The pan must be very well buttered 
IS Indian meal is apt to stick. Put in the mixture, cover it, and set in a 
(varm place to rise. It should be light in about four hours. Then bake i1 
two hours in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out with the broad sur- 
!ace downwards, and send it to lable hot and whole. "Cut it int6 slices and 
jat it with butter. 

This will be found an excellent cake. If wanted for breakfast, mix it 
md set it to rise the night before. If properly made, standing all night will 
not injure it. Like all Indian cakes, (of which this is one of the best,) it 
ihould be eaten warm. — St. Charles Motel, New Orleans. 

JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Sift one quart of Indian meal into a pan ; make a hole in the middle 
md pour in a pint of warm water, adding one teaspoonf ul of salt ; with a 
spoon mix the meal and water gradually into a soft dough ; stir it verj 
briskly for a quarter of an hour or more, till it becomes light and spongy j 
then spread the dough smooth and evenly on a straight, flat board (a piece 
of the head of a flour-barrel will serve for this purpose) ; place, the board 
Dearly upright before an open fire, and put an iron against the back to sup- 
port it ; bake it well ; when done, cut it in squares ; send it hot to table, 
Split and buttered. ■ — Old Plantation Style. 

SPIDER CORN CAKE. 

Beat two eggs and one-fourth cup sugar together. Then add two cups 
sweet milk, in which you have dissolved one-half cake of Fleischmann's yeast 



BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETt. ^21 

Add a teaspoonful of salt. Then mix one and two-thirds cups of granulated 
Born-meal and one-third cup flour with this. Put a spider or skillet on the 
range, and when it is hot melt in two tablespoonfuls of butter. Turn the 
Bpider so that the butter can run up on the sides of the pan. Pour in the corn- 
oake mixture and add one more cup of sweet milk, but do not stir afterwards. 
Put tibis in the oven and bake from twenty to thirty-flve minutes. When 
done, there should be a streak of custard through it. 

SOUTHERN CORN-MEAL PONE OR CORN DODGERS. 

Mix with cold water into a soft dough one quart of southern corn-mealj 
sifted, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of butter or lard melted. Mold 
into oval cakes with the hands and bake in a very hot oven, in well-greased 
pans. To be eaten hot. The crust should be brown. 

RAISED POTATO-CAKE. 

Potato-cakes, to be serv«d with roast lamb or with game, are made ol 
equal quantities of mashed potatoes and of flour, say one quart of each, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a little salt, and milk enough to make a batter as for 
griddle-cakes ; to this allow half a teacupful of lukewarm water into which 
has been dissolved a cake of Fleischmann's yeast ; let it rise till it is light 
and bubbles of air form, and bake in muffin tins. These are good also with 
fricasseed chicken ; take them from the tins and drop in the gravy just before 
sending to the table. 



Biscuits, IRolIs, fIDumns, iStc 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 

In making batter-cakes, the ingredients should be put together ovei 
aight to rise, and the eggs and butter added in the morning ; the buttei 
taelted and eggs well beaten. 

Water can be used in place c I milk in all raised dough, and the dough 
should be thoroughly light before making into loaves or biscuits; then when 
molding them, use as little flo ar as possible ; the kneading to be done 
when first made from the sponge, and should be done well and for some 
length of time, as this makes the pores fine, the brea'd cut smooth and 
tender. Care should be taken not to get the dough too stifE. 

Where any recipe calls for baking-powder, and you io not have it, you 



222 BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

can use cream of tartar and soda, in the proportion of one level teaspoonfull 
of soda to two of cream of tartar. 

When the recipe calls for sweet milk or cream, and you do not have it, 
jrou may use in place of it sour milk or cream, and, in that case, baking- 
powder or cream of tartar must not be used, but baking soda, using a level 
teaspoonful to a quart of sour milk ; the milk is always best when just 
turned, so that it is solid, and not sour enough to whey or to be watery. 

When making biscuits or bread with baking-powder or soda and cream 
of tartar, the oven should be prepared first ; the dough handled quickly and 
put into the oven immediately, as soon as it becomes the proper lightness, 
to ensure good success. If the oven is too slow, the article baked will be 
heavy and hard. 

As in beating cake, never stir ingredients into batter, but beat them in, 
by beating down from the botton, and up, and over again. This laps the 
air into the batter, which produces little air-cells and causes the dough to 
pufE and swell as it comes in contact with the heat while cooking. 

TO RENEW STALE ROLLS. 

To freshen stale biscuits or rolls, put them into a steamer for ten 
minutes, then dry them ofi in a hot oven ; or dip each roll for an instant in 
cold water and heat them crisp in the oven. 

WARM BREAD FOR BREAKFAST. 

Dough, after it has become once sufficiently raised and perfectly light, 
cannot afterwards be injured by setting aside in any cold place where it 
cannot freeze; therefore, biscuits, rolls, etc., can be made late the day 
before wanted for breakfast. Prepare them ready for baking by molding 
them out late in the evening ; lay them a little apart on buttered tins ; 
cover the tins with a cloth, then fold around that a newspaper, so as to 
exclude the air, as that has a tendency to cause the crust to be hard and 
thick when baked. The best place- in summer is to place them in the 
ice-box, then all you have to do in the morning (an hour before breakfast 
time, and while the oven is heating) is to bring them from the ice-box, take 
ofE the cloth and warm it, and place it over them again ; then set the tins 
in a warm place near the fire. This will give them time to rise and bake 
when needed. If these directions are followed rightly, you will find it 
makes no difference with their lightness and goodness, and you can always 
be sure of warm raised biscuits for breakfast in one hour's time 



BREAD - BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 223 

Stale rolls may be made light and flakey by dipping for a moment in 
cold water, and placing immediately in a very hot oven to be made crisp 
and hot. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

One quart of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of salt ; mix thoroughly, and rub in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and wet with one pint of sweet milk. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT. 

Two pints of flour, butter the size of an egg, three heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder, and one teaspoonful of salt ; make a soft dough of sweet 
milk or water, knead as little as possible, cut out with the usual biscuit- 
cutter and bake in a rather quick oven. 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT. 

Rub into a quart of sifted flour a piece of butter the size of an Qgg, one 
teaspoonful of salt ; stir into this a pint of sour milk, dissolve one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and stir into the milk just as you add it to the flour ; knead it 
up quickly, roll it out nearly half an inch thick, and out with a biscuit-cutter; 
bake immediately in a quick oven. 

Very nice biscuit may be made with sour cream without the butter by 
the same process. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

Sift two quarts Ol tiouu- 'm is. inixing-pan, make a hole in the middle ol 
the flour, pour into fchls one pint of warm water or new milk, one teaspoonful 
of salt ; half a cup V& SKSlted larol or butter, stir in a little flour, then add half 
a cupful of luke-'wai'm water into which has been dissolved a cake of Fleisoh- 
mann's yeast, after wtdch stir ia as much flour as you can conveniently with 
your hand, let it rlsa over night ; in the morning add as much flour as is 
needed to make a father soft dough ; then mold fifteen to twenty minutes, 
the longer the be.tas g let iit rise until light again, roll this out about half an 
inch thick, and oat c at with a biscuit- cutter, or make it into little balls with 
your hands; eovgr sad &et in a warm place to rise. When light, bake a 
light brown in a ijaodsiute oven. Rub a little warm butter or sweet lard on 
the sides of the to^se :Vits when you place them on the tins, to prevent their 
sticking together whe n baked. 



J24 BREAD— BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, FTC. 

LIGHT BISCUIT. No. i 

Take a piece of bread dough that will make about as many biscuits aa 
jrou wish ; lay it out rather flat in a bowl ; break into it two eggs ; half a 
Dup of sugar, half a cup of butter ; mix this thoroughly with enough floar to 
keep it from sticking to the hands and board. Knead it well for about fif- 
teen or twenty minutes, make into small biscuits, place in a greased pan, 
and let them rise until about even with the top of the pan. Bake in a quick 
Dven for about half an hour. 

These can be made in the form of rolls, which some prefer. 

LIGHT BISCUIT. No. 2, 

When you bake take a pint of sponge, one tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter, one tablespoonful of sugar, the white of one e^^^ beaten to a foam. 
Let rise until light, mold into busouits, and when light bake. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS. 

Take one pint of water or milk, one large tablespoonful of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, a cake of Fleischmann's yeast, and a p'ash of salt ; 
take enough wheat flour to use up the water, into which the yeast has been 
dissolved, making it the consistency of batter-cakes ; add the rest of the in- 
gredients and as much Graham flour as can be stirred with a spoon ; set '\\ 
awaj till morning ; in the morning grease a pan, flour your hands, take a 
lump of dough the size of an egg, roll it lightly between the palms of youi 
hands, let them rise twenty minutes, and bake in a tolerably hot oven. 

EGG BISCUIT. 

Sift together a quart of dry flour and three heaping teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing-powder. Rub into this thoroughly a piece of butter the size of an egg ; 
add two well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt. 
!iix all together quickly into a soft dough, with one cup of milk, or more if 
.iaeded. Roll out nearly half of an inch thick. Cut into biscuits, and bake 
immediately in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One pint of milk, boiled and cooled, a piece of butter the size of an 
ngg, one-half cupful of lukewarm water into which has been dissolved a 
Bake of Fleischmann's yeast, one tablespoonful of sugar, one pinch of salt, 
and two quarts of sifted flour- 



BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 225 

Melt the butter in the warm milk, then add the sugar, yeast, salt, and flour; 
and let it rise over night. Mix rather soft. In the morning mix in enough flour 
to make the same stiffness as any biscuit dough ; roll out not more than a 
quarter of an inch thick. Out with a large round cutter ; spread soft butter 
over the tops and fold one-half over the other by doubling it. Place them 
apart a little so that there will be room to rise. Cover, and place them near 
the fire for fifteen or twenty minutes before baking. Bake in a rather quick 
oven. 

SQUIRRELS' TAILS. 

This is a comparatively new delicacy, and was first made by an ingenious 
lady of Providence, R. I., from which place many novel and delicious recipes 
have come. 

IJp a quart of flour that has been twice sifted, add a little salt, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, then rub well into the flour. Dissolve half a cake of 
Fleischmann's yeast in a little lukewarm water, and add to this warm milk 
enough to make a moderately soft batter. Do not spare the kneading. Set 
to rise. When light, add the whites of two eggs that have been beaten to a 
stiff -froth. Let rise again. Make a sauce of one cup of granulated sugar, 
and half a cup of butter. Beat until white and creamy. Roll the dough 
out thin, cut in strips about an inch and a half wide and six inches long, and 
spread the sauce upon them. Roll each strip up separately, place in pan, let 
rise again, and bake in a hot oven. 

* 
FRENCH ROLLS. 

Three cups of sweet milk, one cup of butter and lard, mixed in equal 
proportions, one-half cup of lukewarm water into which has been dissolved 
a cake of Fleischmann's yeast, and a teaspoonful of salt. Add flour enough 
to make a stiff dough. Let it rise over night ; in the morning, add two 
well-beaten eggs ; knead thoroughly, and let it rise again. With the hands, 
make it into balls as large as an <d^^ ; then roll between the hands to make 
long rolls (about three inches). Place close together in even rows on well- 
buttered pans. Cover and let them rise again, then bake in a quick oven to 
a delicate brown. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of sifted flour, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of sweet 
lard, one egg ; make up with half a pint of milk, or, if milk is not to be had, 
plain water will answer ; beat well until the dough blisters and cracks ; pull 



226 BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

oS a two-inch square of the dough ; roll it into a hall with the hand ; flatten, 
stick with a fork, and bake in a quick oven. 

It is not beating hard that makes the biscuit nice, but the regularity of 
the motion. Beating hard, the old cooks say, kills the dough. An old- 
fashioned Southern recipe. 

POTATO BISCUIT. 

Boil six good-sized potatoes with their jackets on ; take them out with a 
skimmer, drain and squeeze with a towel to 'ensure being dry ; then remove 
the skin, mash them perfectly free from lumps, add a tablespoonful of butter, 
one Qgg, and a pint of sweet milk. When cool, beat in half a cup lukewarm 
water into which has been dissolved a cake of Fleisohmann's yeast. Put in 
just enough flour to make a stifE dough. When this rises make into small 
cakes. Let them rise the same as biscuit and bake a delicate brown. 

This dough is very fine, dropped into meat soups for pot-pie. 

VINEGAR BISCUITS, 

Take two quarts of flour, one large tablespoonful of lard or butter, one 
tablespoonful and a half of vinegar, and one tablespoonful of soda ; put the 
soda in the vinegar and stir it well ; stir in the flour ; beat two eggs very- 
light and add to it ; make a dough with warm water stifi enough to roll out, 
and cut with a biscuit-cutter one inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. 

GRAFTON MILK BISCUITS. 

Boil and mash two white potatoes ; add two teaspoonfuls of brown sugar; 
pour boiling water over these, enough to soften them. When tepid, add 
one cake of Fleischmann's yeast ; when light, warm three ounces of butter in 
one pint of milk, a little salt, and flour enough to make stiff sponge ; 
when risen, work it on the board ; put it back in the tray to rise again ; when 
risen, roll into cakes, and let them stand half an hour. Bake in a quick oven. 
These biscuits are fine. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Warm one-half cupful of butter in a pint of milk ; add a teaspoonful of 
salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, and seven cupfuls of sifted flour ; beat thor- 
oughly, and when the mixture is blood warm, add four beaten eggs, and last 
of all, a cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in half a cup of lukewarm 
water. Beat hard until the batter breaks in blisters. Set it to rise over 



BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS. ETC, 



227 



night. In the morning turn it into a well-buttered, shallow dish to rise again 
about fifteen or twenty minutes. Bake about fifteen to twenty minutes. 

The cake should be torn apart, not out ; cutting with a knife makes warm 
bread heavy. Bake a light brown. This cake is frequently seen on South- 
em tables. 

RYE BISCUITS. 

Two cups of rye flour, one cup of wheat flour, a tablespoonful of sugar, 
a little salt. Dissolve a cake of Fleischmann's yeast in a little lukewarm 
water ; add to this enough flour to make a soft batter. Mix over night or 
early in the morning. When light, remold, place in pans and let rise again. 

LONDON HOT-CROSS BUNS. 

Three cups of milk, one cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in a cup 
of tepid water, and flour enough to make a thick batter ; set this as a sponge 
over night. In the morning, add half a cup of melted butter, one cup of 
sugar, half a nutmeg grated, one saltspoonful of salt, and flour enough to 
roll out like biscuit. Knead well and set to rise for five hours. Roll the 
dough half an inch thick ; cut in round cakes, and lay in rows in a buttered 
baking-pan, and let the cakes stand half an hour, or until light ; then put 
them in the oven, having first made a deep cross on each with a knife. Bake 
a light brown, and brush over with white of egg beaten stiff with powdered 
sugar. 

RUSKS, WITH YEAST. 

In one large coffee-cup of warm milk, dissolve half a cake of Fleisch- 
mann's compressed yeast ; to this add three well-beaten eggs, a small cup 
of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt ; beat these together. Use flour enough 
to make a smooth, light dough, let it stand until very light, then knead it in 
the form of biscuits ; place them on buttered tins, and let them rise until 
fchey are almost up to the edge of the tins ; pierce the top of each one, and 
bake in a quick oven. Glaze the tops of each with sugar and milk, or the 
white of an ei^^, before baking. Some add dried currants, well-washed and 
dried in the oven. 

RUSKS. 

Two cups of raised dough, one of sugar, half a cup of butter, two well- 
beaten eggs, flour enough to make a stiff dough ; set to rise, and when 
light, mold into high biscuit, and let rise again ; rub damp sugar and cin- 
namon over the top and place in the oven. Bake about twenty minutes. 



328 BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Dissolve three cakes of Fleischmann's compressed yeast in one quart 
of lukewarm milk ; add flour to make a moderately stifE sponge. Let 
sponge get well ready, then add two teaspoonfuls of salt, five ounces of 
butter, five ounces of lard, one pound of sugar, one pint of lukewarm milk, 
six eggs, spices to suit taste, a little extract of lemon, and flour to make 
dough as soft as can be handled. Let dough get light, then roll out and 
cut with round cutters, and place on table well dusted with flour until quite 
light, then fry in lard. Makes about one hundred and twenty. 

SCOTCH SCONES. 

Thoroughly mix, while dry, one quart of sifted flour, loosely measured, 
and rub into it a tablespoonful of cold butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. Be 
sure that the butter is well worked in. Add sweet milk, into which has 
been dissolved one cake of Fleischmann's yeast, enough to make a very soft 
paste. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, using plenty of 
flour on the paste-board and rolling-pin. Cut it into triangular pieces, each 
side about four inches long. Flour the sides and bottom of a biscuit-tin, and 
place the pieces on it. Bake immediately in a quick oven from twenty to 
thirty minutes. When half done, brush over with sweet milk. Some cooks 
prefer to bake them on a floured griddle, and cut them a round shape the 
size of a saucer, then scarred across to form four quarters. 

CRACKNELS. 

Two cups of rich milk, four tablespoonfuls of butter and half a cake of 
Fleischmann's yeast, a teaspoonful of salt ; mix warm, add flour enough to 
make a light dough. When light, roll thin, and cut in long pieces three 
inches wide, prick well with a fork, and bake in a slow oven. They are to 
be mixed rather hard, and rolled very thin, like soda crackers. 

RAISED MUFFINS. No. I. 

Make a batter of one pint of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of sugar, one 
of salt, a tablespoonful of butter or sweet lard, and a cake of Fleischmann's 
yeast ; add flour enough to make it_ moderately thick ; keep it in a warm, 
not hot, place, until it is quite light, then stir in one or two well-beaten 
eggs, and half a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little warm water. Let 
the batter stand twenty-five or thirty minutes longer to rise a little, turn 
into well-greased muffin-rings or gem-pans, and bake in a quick oven. 

To be served hot, and torn open, instead of cut tnth a knife. 



BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 229 

RAISED MUFFINS. No. 2. 
Three pints of flour, three eggs, a piece of butter the size of an Q^%, 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of white sugar, one cake of Fleischmann's com- 
pressed yeast, and a quart of milk ; warm the milk with the butter in 
it ; cool a little, stir in the sugar and add a little salt ; stir this gradually 
into the flour, then add the eggs well beaten ; dissolve the yeast in half a 
cup of lukewarm water and add to the other ingredients ; if the muflBns are 
wanted for luncheon, mix them about eight o'clock in the morning ; if for 
breakfast, set them at ten o'clock at night ; when ready for baking, butter 
the muffin-rings or gem-irons, and bake in a quick oven. 

EGG MUFFINS. (Fine.) 
One quart of flour, sifted twice; three eggs, the whites and yolks beaten 
separately, three teacups of sweet milk, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, a large tablespoonful of lard or butter, and two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and baking- 
powder; rub in the lard cold, add the beaten eggs and milk; mix quickly 
into a smooth batter, a little firmer than for griddle-cakes. Grease well 
some muffin-pans, and fill them two-thirds full. Bake in a hot oven fifteen 
or twenty minutes. These, made of cream, omitting the butter, are ex- 
cellent. 

PLAIN MUFFINS. 

One ei^^, well beaten, a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of 
sugar, with a teaspoonful of salt, all beaten until very light. One cup of 
milk, three of sifted flour, and three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. One- 
half Graham and one-half rye meal may be used instead of wheat flour, or 
two cups of corn-meal and one of flour. 

Drop on well-greased patty-pans and bake twenty minutes in a rather 
quick oven, or bake on a griddle in muffin-rings. 

MUFFINS WITHOUT EGGS. 
One quart of buttermilk, a cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in the 
milk, a little salt, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. Drop in hot 
gem-pans and bake in a quick oven. Two or three tablespoonfuls of sour 
cream will make them a little richer. 

TENNESSEE MUFFINS. 
One pint of corn-meal, one pint of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, ono 
teaspoonful of salt, three of baking-powder, one tablespoonful of lard or 
butter, two eggs, and a pint of milk. Sift together corn-meal, flour, sugar, 



230 BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC 

salt, and powder ; rub in lard or butter cold, and eggs beaten and milk; 
mix into batter of consistence of cup-cake ; muffin-rings to be cold and 
well greased, then fill two-thirds full. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. (Without Eggs.) 

One cup of flour, one cup of corn-meal, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, half 
a cake of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in sufficient water to make a thick 
batter, or sour milk is better ; mix at night; in the morning, add two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, and one teaspoonful of soda ; bake in cake rounds. 

HOMINY MUFFINS. 

Two cups of boiled hominy ; beat it smooth, stir in three cups of sour 
milk, half a cup of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar ; add three eggs well beaten ; one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in 
hot water ; two cups of flour. Bake quickly. 

Rice muffins may be made in the same manner. 

GRAHAM GEMS. No. I, 
Two cupfuls of Graham flour, one cupful of wheat flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder, a tablespoonful of sugar, one of salt, and one well-beaten 



Mix with sweet milk to make a thin batter ; beat it well. Bake in gem- 
irons ; have the irons well-greased ; fill two-thirds full, and bake in a hot 
oven. Will bake in from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

GRAHAM GEMS. No. 2. 

Three cups of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one of salt, one table- 
spoonful of brown sugar, one of melted lard or butter, one or two beaten 
eggs ; to the Q^'g add the milk, then the sugar and salt, then the Graham 
flour (with the soda mixed in), together with the lard or butter ; make a stiff 
batter, so that it will drop, not pour, from the spoon. Have the gem-pans 
very hot, fill and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

The same can be made of sweet milk, using three teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder instead of soda, and if you use sweet milk, put in no shortening. 
Excellent. 

Muffins of all kinds should only be cut Just around the edge, then pulled 
open with the fingers. 

PLAIN GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cupfuls of the best Graham meal, two of water, fresh and cold, or 
milk and water, and a little salt. Stir briskly for a minute or two. Have 



BREAD -BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 23 1 

the gem-pan, hot and well greased, on the top of the stove while pouring in 
the batter. Then place in a very hot oven and bake forty minutes. It is 
best to check the heat a little when they are nearly done. As the best pre- 
pared gems may be spoiled if the heat is not sufEcient, care and judgment 
must be used in order to secure this most healthful as well as delicious bread. 

WAFFLES. 
Take a quart of flour and wet it with a little sweet milk that has been 
boiled and cooled, then stir in enough of the milk to form a thick batter. 
Add a tablespoonful of melted butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and one cake of 
Fleischmann's yeast to raise it. When light, add two well-beaten eggs, 
heat your waffle-iron, grease it well, and fill it with the batter. Two or 
three minutes will suffice to bake on one side ; then turn the iron over, and 
when brown on both sides, the cake is done. Serve immediately. 

CONTINENTAL HOTEL WAFFLES. 

Put into one quart of sifted flour three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 

one teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, all thoroughly stirred and sifted 

together ; add a tablespoonful of melted butter, six well-beaten eggs, and 

a pint of sweet milk ; cook in waffle-irons, heated and well greased. 

Serve hot. 

NEWPORT WAFFLES. 

Make one pint of Indian meal into mush in the usual way. While hot, 

put in a small lump of butter, and a dessertspoonful of salt. Set the mush 

aside to cool. Meanwhile, beat separately till very light the whites and 

yolks of four eggs. Add the eggs to the mush, and cream in gradually one 

quart of wheaten flour. Add half a pint of buttermilk or sour cream, in 

which has been dissolved half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Lastly, 

bring to the consistency of thin batter, by the addition of sweet milk. 

Waffle-irons should be put on to heat an hour in advance, that they may be 

in the proper condition for baking as soon as the batter is ready. Have a 

brisk fire, butter the irons thoroughly, but with nicety, and bake quickly. 

Fill the irons only half full of batter, that the waffles may have room to rise. 

CREAM WAFFLES. 
One pint of sour cream, two eggs, one pint of flour, one tablespoonful of 
eorn-meal, one • teaspoonful of soda, half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the 
eggs separately, mix the cream with the beaten yolks, stir in the flour, corn- 
meal, and salt ; add the soda dissolved in a little sweet milk, and, last, the 
whites beaten to a stifi froth. 



232 BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

RICE WAFFLES. No. i. 
One quart of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one large tablespoonful of butter, two 
eggs, one and a half pints of milk, one cupful of hot boiled rice. Sift the 
flour, salt, sugar, and baking-powder well together ; rub the butter into the 
flour ; beat the eggs well, separately, and add the stiff whites last of all. 

RICE WAFFLES. No. 2. 
Rub through a sieve one pint of boiled rice, add to it a tablespoonful of 
dry flottr, two-thirds of a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Beat separately the yolks and ■9?hites of three eggs ; add to the 
yolks a cup and a half of milk, work it into the flour, then add an ounce of 
melted butter ; beat the whites of eggs thoroughly ; mix the whole together. 
Heat the waflle-iron and grease it evenly ; pour the batter into the half of 
the iron over the range until nearly two-thirds full, cover, allow to cook a 
moment, then turn and brown slightly on the other side. 

GERMAN RICE WAFFLES. 
Boil a half-pound of rice in milk until it becomes thoroughly soft. Then 
remove it from the fire, stirring it constantly, and adding, a little at a time, 
one quart of sifted flour, five beaten eggs, a cake of Fleischmann's yeast, a 
half-pound of. melted butter, a little- salt, and a teacupful of warm milk 
into which the yeast has been dissolved. Set the batter in a warm place, 
and when risen, bake in the ordinary way. 

BERRY TEA-CAKES. 

Nice little tea-cakes to be baked in muflBn rings are made of one cup of 
sugar, two eggs, one and a half cups of milk, one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking-powder, a piece of butter the size of an egg and flour sufficient 
to make a stifE batter. In this batter stir a pint bowl of fruit — any fresh 
are nice — or canned berries with the juice poured off. Serve while warm 
and they are a dainty addition to the tea-table. Eat with butter. 

RYE DROP-CAKES. 

One pint of warm milk, with half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, a 
little salt, four eggs, well beaten, and rye flour enough to make a thin bat- 
ter ; bake in little cups, buttered, and in a hot oven, or in small cakes upon 
a hot griddle. 

WHEAT DROP-CAKES. 

One pint of cream, six eggs well beaten, a little salt, and wheat flour 



BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 233 

enough to make a thin batter | bake in little oups buttered, and in a hot 
oven fifteen minuteSc 

POP-OVERS. 

Two cups of flour, two cups of sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, bake in cups in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot with a sweet sauce. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Heat a pint of sweet milk, and into it put two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
butter, let it melt, then add a pint of cold milk and the well-beaten yolks of 
four eggs — placing the whites in a cool place ; also, a teaspoonful of salt, 
one cake of Fleisohmann's yeast, and sufficient flour to make a stifE batter ; 
set it in a warm place to rise ; let it stand three hours or over night ; before 
baking add the beaten whites ; bake like any other griddle-cakes. Be sure 
to make the batter stiff enough, for flour must not be added after it has risen, 
unless it is allowed to rise again. These, half corn-meal and half wheat, are 
very nice. 

FEATHER GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Make a batter, at night, of a pint of water or milk, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and one cake of Fleischmann's yeast ; in the morning, add to it one teacup- 
ful of thick, sour milk, two eggs well beaten, a level tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a level teaspoonful of soda, and flour enough to make the consistency 
of pan-cake batter ; let stand twenty minutes, then bake. 

This is a convenient way, when making sponge for bread over night, using 
some of the sponge. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Dissolve one cake of Fleischmann & Co.'s Compressed Yeast in one pint 
of lukewarm milk or water. Rub together one tablespoonful each of butter, 
white Indian meal, and sugar, and add two eggs, well beaten, and a little salt. 
Into this stir the milk or water containing the dissolved yeast and add suf- 
ficient wheat flour, sifted, to make thin batter. Let it stand in a moderately 
warm place for thirty minutes. If too thick, thin with lukewarm milk or 
water, and fry on well-greased griddle. Ready in thirty minutes. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE-CAKES. 
Make a batter of a quart of sour milk and as much sifted flour as is 
needed to thicken so that it will run from the dish ; add two well-beaten 
eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter, and a level tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in a little milk or cold water, added last ; then 
bake on a hot griddle, well greased, brown on both sides. 



234 BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

CORN-MEAL GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Stir into one quart of boiling milk three cups of corn-meal ; after it 
oools, add one cup of white flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and one cake of 
Fleisohmann's yeast dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Mix this over 
night. In the morning, add one tablespoonful of melted butter or lard, 
two beaten eggs, and a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little water. 

This batter should stand a few minutes, after adding the butter and soda, 
that it should have time to rise a little ; in the meantime, the griddle could 
be heating. Take a small stick like a good-sized skewer, wind a bit of 
cloth around the end of it, fasten it by winding a piece of thread around 
that and tying it firm. Melt "together a tablespoonful of butter and lard. 
Grease the griddle with this. Between each batch of cakes, wipe the 
griddle ofE with a clean paper or cloth, and grease afresh. Put the cakes on 
by spoonfuls, or pour them carefully from a pitcher, trying to get them as 
near the same size as possible. As soon as they begin to bubble all over 
turn them, and cook on the other side till they stop puflSng. The second lot 
always cooks better than the first, as the griddle becomes evenly heated. 

CORN-MEAL GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Scald two cups of sifted meal, mix with a cup of wheat flour and a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Add three well-beaten eggs ; thin the whole with sour 
milk enough to make it the right consistency. Beat the whole till very 
light, and add a teaspoonful of baking-soda dissolved in a little water. If 
you use sweet milk, use two large teaspoonfuls of baking-powder instead 
of soda. 

GRIDDLE-CAKES. (Very Good.) 

One quart of Graham flour, half a pint of Indian meal, one cake of 
Fleisohmann's yeast dissolved in lukewarm water, a teaspoonful of salt ; mix 
the flour and meal, pour on enough warm water to make batter rather thicker 
than that for buckwheat cakes; add the yeast,' and when light bake on 
griddle not too hot. 

GRAHAM GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Mix together dry two cups of Graham flour, one cup of wheat flour, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and one teaspoonful of salt. Then 
add three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of lard or butter melted, and 
three cups of sweet milk. Cook immediately on a hot griddle. 



BREAD— BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 235 

BREAD GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One quart of milk, boiling hot; two cups fine "bread-crumbs, three eggs, one 
taUespoonf ul melted butter, one-half teaspoonf ul salt, one-half teaspoonful soda, ' 
dissolved in warm water; break the bread into the boiling milk, and let stand 
for ten minutes in a covered bowl, then beat to a smooth paste; add the yolks ol 
the eggs well- whipped, the butter, salt, soda, and £nally the whites of the ^gs 
previously whipped stiff, and add half of a cupful of flour. These can also be 
made of sour milk, soaking the bread in it over night, and using a little more 
8oda. 

RICE GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, one teaspoonful sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one egg, a 
little more than half a pint of milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt and powder; 
add rice free from lumps, diluted with beaten egg and milk; niix into smooth 
batter. Have griddle well-heated, make cakes large, bake nicely brown, and 
nerve with maple syrup. 

POTATO GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Twelve large potatoes, three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful 
of baMng-powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one or two eggs, two teacupfula 
of boiling milk. The potatoes are peeled, washed and grated into a little cold 
water, (which keeps them white), then strain off water and pour on boiling 
milk, stir in eggs, salt and flour, mixed with the baking-powder; if agreeable, 
flavor with a little fine chopped onion; bake like any other pan-cakes, allowing a 
little more lard or butter. Serve with stewed or preserved fruit, especially with 
huckleberries. 

GREEN CORN GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One pint of milk, two cups grated green com, a little salt, two eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder, flour sufScient to make a batter to fry on. the 
griddle. Butter them hot and serve. 

HUCKLEBERRY GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Made the same as above, leaving out one cup of milk, adding one tablespoon- 
fnl of sugar, and a pint of huckleberties, rolled in flour. Blackberries or rasp- 
berries can be used in the same manner. 

FRENCH GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Beeit togotbeVi until smooth, six eggs and a pint sifted flour; melt one ounce 
of bntter^ m& add to the batteY, vrith <me ounce of sugar and a cup of milk: 



236 BREAD- BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC 

beat until smooth ; put a tablespoonfal at a time into a frjing-pan, slightly 
greased, spreading the batter evenly over the surface by tipping the pan 
about ; fry to a light brown ; spread with jelly, roll up, dust with powdered 
sugar and serve hot, 

RAISED^ BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Take a small crock or large earthen pitcher, put into it a quart of warm 
water or half water and milk, into which has been dissolved a cake of 
Fleischmann's yeast, and one heaping teaspoonful of salt ; then stir in as 
much buckwheat flour as will thicken it to a rather stifE batter ; cover it up 
warm to rise over night ; in the morning, add a small, level teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in a little warm water ; this will remove the sour taste, if 
any, and increase the lightness. 

Not a few object to eating buckwheat, as its tendency is to thicken the 
blood, and also to produce constipation ; this can be remedied by making 
the batter one-third corn-meal and two-thirds buckwheat, which makes the 
cakes equally as good. Many prefer them in this way. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One quart of milk, one Fleischmann's yeast cake dissolved in warm 
water, one tablespoonfal of melted butter, three eggs well beaten, a little 
salt, and flour enough for a soft batter. Add the butt&»"and eggs in the 
morning Bake on a hot griddle. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Half a pint of buckwheat flour, a quarter of a pint of corn-meal, a 
quarter of a pint of wheat flour, a little salt, two eggs beaten very light, one 
quart of new milk, (made a little warm, and mixed with the eggs before the 
flour is put in,) one tablespoonful of butter or sweet lard, half a cake of 
Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Set it to rise at 
night for the morning. If in the least sour, stir in before baking just 
enough soda to correct the acidity. A very nice recipe. 

SWEDISH GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One pint of white flour, sifted ; six eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately to the utmost ; one saltspoonful of salt ; one saltspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in vinegar ; milk to make a thin batter. 

Beat the yolks light, add the salt, soda, two cupfuls of milk, then the 
flour, and beaten whites alternately ; thin with more milk if necessary. 



BREAD— BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC, a3f 

CORN-MEAL FRITTERS, 

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonf ul of salt, three eggs, one tablespoonful 
pf molasses or sugar, one handful of flour, and com-meal enough to make a 
stiff batter; lastly, stir in a small teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little warm 
water. 

This recipe is very nice made of rye flour. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 
One cup of cream; five eggs— the whites only; two full cups prepared flour; 
one saltspoonful of nutmeg; a pinch of salt. Stir the whites into the cream in 
turn with the flour, put in nutmeg and salt, beat all up hard for two minutes. 
The batter should be rather thick. Fry in plenty of hot, sweet lard, a spoonful 
of batter for each fritter. Drain, and serve upon a hot, clean napkin. Eat 
with jelly sauce. Pull, not cut, them open. Very nice. 

CURRANT FRITTERS. 

Two cupfuls dry, fine, bread.-crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of prepared flour, 
two cups of milk, one-half pound currants, washed and well-dried, five egga 
whipped very light, one-half cup powdered sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one^ 
half teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil the milk and pour over 
the bread. Mix and put in the butter. Let it get cold. Beat in next the yolks 
and sugar, the seasoning, flour, and stiff whites; finally, the currants dredged 
whitely with flour. The batter should be thick. Drop in great spoonfuls into 
the hot lard and fry. Drain them and send hot to table. Eat with a mix. 
ture of wine and powdered sugar. 

WHEAT FRITTERS. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups of milk, three teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 
salt, and flour enough to make quite stiff, thicker than batter-cakes. Drop into 
hot lard and fry like doughnuts. 

A good Sauce for the Above.— One cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one teaspoonful of flour beaten together; half a cup boiling water; flavor with 
extract lemon and boil until clear. Or serve with maple syrup. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a' batter in the proportion of one cup sweet milk to two cups flour, & 
heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder, two eggs beaten separately, one table- 
epoonful of sugar and a saltspooo of salt; beat the milk a little more than milk- 



*38 BJfMAU—S/SCU/rS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

warm; add it slowly to the beaten yolks and sugar; then add flour and whitef 
of the eggs; stir all together and throw in thin slices of good sour apples, dip- 
ping the batter up over them; drop into boiling hot lard in large spoonfuls with 
pieces of apple in each, and fry to a light brown. Serve with maple €yrup, or a 
nice syrup made with clarified sugar. 

Bananas, peaches, sliced oranges and other fruits can be used in the same 
batter. 

PINE-APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a batter as for apple fritters; then pare one large pineapple, cut it in 
slices a quarter of an inch tiiick, cut the slices in halves, dip them into the batter 
and fry them, and serve them as above. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 
Peel the peaches, split each in two and take out the stones; dust a Uttle 
powdered sugar over them; dip each piece in the batt«r, and frj' in hot fat. A 
sauce to be served with them may be made as follows: Put an ounce of butter 
in asaucepan, and whisk it to a cream; add four ounces of sugar graduaUy. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs; add to them a dash of nutmeg and a gill each of 
cold water and rum; stir this into the luke-warm batter, and allow it to heat 
gradually. Stir constantly until of a smooth, creamy consistency, and serve. 
The batter is made as follows: Beat the yolks of three' eggs; add to them a gill 
of milk, or half of a cupful, a saltspoonful of salt, four ounces of flour; mix. If 
old flour is used, a little more milk may be found necessary. 

GOLDEN-BALL FRITTERS. 

Put into a stew-pan a pint of water, a piece of butter as large as an egg, and 
a tablespoonful of sugar. When it boils, stir into it one pint of ■sifted flour, 
stirring briskly and thoroughly. Remove from the fire, and when-^nearly 
cooled, beat into it six eggs, each one beaten separately, and added, one at a 
time, beating the batter between each. Drop the stiff dough into boiling lard by 
teaspoonfuls. Eat with syrup; or melted sugar and butter flavored 

Stirring the boiling lard around epid around, so that it whirls when you 
drop in the fritters, causes them to assume a round shape like balls. 

CANNELONS, OR FRIED PUFFS. 

Half a pound of pulf paste; apricot, or any kmd of preserve that may be 
preferred; hot lard. 

Cannelons, which are made of puff -paste, rolled very thin, with jam en. 
closed, and cut out in long, narrow rolls or pufCs, make a very pretty and 



ejtEA£>~BISCC//TS. JiOLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 33^ 

elegant dish. Make some good puff paste, roll it out very thin, and cut it into 
pieces of an equal size, about two inches wide and eight inches long; place upon 
each piece a spoonful of jam, wet the edges with the white of egg. and fold the 
paste over twice; slightly press the edges together, that the jam may not escape 
in the frying; and when all are prepared, fry them in boiling lard until of a nice 
brown, letting them remain by the side of the fire after they are colored, that 
the paste may be thoroughly done. Drain them before the fire, dish on a 
d oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and serve. These cannelons are very 
delicious made with fresh, instead of preserved fruit, such as strawberries, rasp- 
berries, or cuirants; they should be laid in the paste, plenty of pounded sugar 
sprinkled over, and folded and fried in the same manner as stated above. 

GERMAN FRITTERS. 

Take slices of stale bread cut in rounds, or stale cake; fry them in hot lard, 
like crullers, to a light brown. Dip each slice when fried in boOing mUk, to 
remove the gi-ease; drain quickly, dust with powdered sugar, or spread with 
preserves, Pile on a hot plate, and serve. Sweet wine sauce poured over 
them is very nice 

HOMINY FRITTERS. 

Take one pint of hot boiled hominy, two eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
a tablespoonfiil of flour; thin it a httle with cold milk; when cold, add a tea- 
^MDonf ul of baking-powder, mix thorougUy, drop tablespoonf ula of it into hot 
fat and fry to a delicate brown. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Take three or four good-sized parsnips. Bod them until tender. Mash anu 
season with a little butter, a pinch of salt and a slight sprinkling of pepper. 
Have ready a plate with some sifted flour on it. Drop a tablespoonf ul of the 
parsnip in the flour and roll it about until well-coated and formed into a balL 
When you have a sufficient number ready, drop them into boiling drippings or 
lard, as. you would a fritter; fry a delicate brown, and serve hot. Do not put 
them in a covered dish, for that would steam them and deprive them of their 
crispiiess, which is one of their gi-eat charms. 

These are also very good fried in a frying-pan with a small quantity of lard 
and butter mixed, turning them over so as to fxy both sides browm. 

GREEN-CORN FRITTERS. 
One pint of grated, young and tender, green com, tliree eggs, two tablespoon- 
fills of milk or cream, one tablespconful of melted butter, if milk is used, a t«8. 



940r BREAD—BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUSRINS, STC. 

spoonful of salt. Beat the eggs well, add the com by degrees, also the mflk and 
butter; thicken with just enough flour to hold them together, adding a tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder to the flour. Have ready a kettle of hot lard, drop 
the com from the spoon into the fat and fry a light brown. They are also nice, 
fried in butter and lard mixed, the same as fried eggs. 

CREAM SHORT-CAKE. 

Sift one quart of fine white flour, rub into it three tablespoonfuls of cold 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of white sugar. Add a beaten e^ 
to a cup of sour cream, turn it into the other ingredients, dissolve a teaspoonful 
of soda in a spoonful of water, mix all together, handling as little as possible; 
roll lightly into two round sheets, place on pietins, and bake from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes in a quick oven. 

This cmst is delicious for fruit short-cakes. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Make a rule of baking-powder biscuit, with the exception of a little more 
shortening; divide the dough in half; lay one-half on the molding-board, (half 
the dough makes one shortcake), divide this half again, and roll each piece large 
enough to cover a biscuit-tiu, or a large-sized pie-tin; spread soft butter over the 
lower one, and place the other on top of that; proceed with the other lump of 
dough the same, by cutting it in halves, and putting on another tin. Set them 
in the oven; when sufficiently baked take them out, separate each one by run- 
ning a large knife through where the cold soft butter was spread. Then butter 
plentifully each crust, lay the bottom of each on earthem platters or dining- 
plates; cover thickly with a quart of strawberries that have been previously pre- 
pared with sugar, lay the top cmsts on the fruit. If there is any juice left, 
pour it around the cake. This makes a delicious shortcake. 

Peaches, raspberries, blackberiies, and huckleberries can be substituted for 
strawberries. Always send to the table with a pitcher of sweet cream. 

ORANGE SHORT-CAKE. 

Peel two large oranges, chop them fine, remove the seeds, add half a peeled 
lemon, and one cup of sugar. Spread between the layers of short-cake while 
it is hot. 

LEMON SHORT-CAKE. 
Make a rich biscuit dough, same as above recipe. While baking, take a cup 
and a quarter of water, a cup and a half of sugar, and two lemons, peel, juice 
ftnd pulp, throwing away the tough part of the rind; boil this for some little 



BXBAD-^B/SCV/rS, ROLLS. JOLLllNS^ni 14« 

ume; thea sGr fn three crackers rolled fine; split the shoit^cakes while hot» 
^read with butteiv then with the mixture.. ,To be eaten warm. 

HUCKLEBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 
Twocupfulsof sugar, half a cupful of butler, one pint of sweet milk, one 
tablespoonful of salt, two heapmg teospoonfulsjof baking-powder, sifted into a 
quart of flour.or efiough to form a thick batter; add a quart of the huckleberries; 
to be baked in a dripper; cut into squaries for the table, aud served hot with 
batter..£ Blackberries may be used the same. 

FRIED DINNER-ROLLS. 

When making light raised bread, save out a piece of dough nearly the size 
of a small loaf, roll it out on the board, spread a tablespoonful of melted butter 
over it; dissolve a quarter of a teaspoonf ul of soda in a tablespoonful of water, 
and pour that also over it; work it all well into the dough, roll it out into a sheet 
not quite half an inch thick. Ciit it iu strips three inches long and one inch wide. 
Lay them on buttered tins, cover with a cloth, and set away in a cool place 
until an hour before dinner-time; then set them by the fire where they will 
become light. While they are rising, put into a frying-pan a tablespoonful of 
cold butter and one of lard; when it boils clear and is hot, lay as many of the 
rolls in as will fry nicely. As soon as they brown on one side, turn tbem over 
and brown the other; then turn them on the edges and brown the sides. Add 
fresh grease as is needed. Eat them warm in place of bread.^ Kice with warm 
meat dinner. 

NEWPORT BREAKFAST-CAKES. 

Take ohe quart of dough from the bread, at an early hour in the mormng; 
break three eggs, separating yolks and whites, both to be whipped to a light 
froth: mix them into the dough, and gradually add two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, and enough warm mHk with it 
until it is a batter the consistency of buckwheat cakes; beat it well, and let it 
rise until breakfast- time. Have the griddle hot and nicely greased, pour on the 
batter in small round cakes, and bake a light brown, the same as any griddle- 
rake. 

PUFF BALLS. 

A piece of butter as large as an egg, stined until soft; add three well-beaten 
eggs, a pinch of salt, and half a teacupful of sour cream. Stir well together, 
then add enough flour to make a very thick batter. Drop a spoonful of thia 
iat* twilu^ watar. Code .until the puffs rise, to tbo surface. Dish them hot 



2^2 BREAD — BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

with melted butter turned over them. Nice accompaniment to a meat din 
aer as a side-dish — similar to plain maccaroni. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS. 

Two cups of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one egg, and flour enough to roll out like biscuit dough. Cut into narrow 
strips, an inch wide, and three inches long ; ^y brown in hot lard, like 
doughnuts. Serve hot ; excellent with cofEee. Or, fry in a spider with an 
ounce each of lard and butter, turning and browning all four of the sides. 

ENGLISH CRUMPETS. 

One quart of warm milk, one cake of Fleischmann's yeast, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, flour enough to make a stiff batter; when light, add half a cupful 
of melted butter, a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little water, and a very 
li*tle iiore flour ; let it stand twenty minutes or until light. Grease some 
Yuffin rings, place them on a hot griddle, and fill them half full of the bat- 
ter ; when done on one side, turn and bake the other side. Butter them 
while hot ; pile one on another, and serve immediately. 

PLAIN CRUMPETS. 

Mix together thoroughly, while dry, one quart of sifted flour, loosely 
measured, two heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder, and a little salt ; then 
add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and sweet milk enough to make a 
thin dough. Bake quickly in muffin-rings or patty-pans. 

PREPARED BREAD-CRUMBS. 

Take pieces of stale bread, break them in small bits, put them on a 
baking-pan and place them in a moderate oven, watching closely that they 
do not scorch ; then take them while hot and crisp and roll them, crushing 
them. Sift them, using the fine crumbs for breading cutlets, fish, croquettes, 
etc. The coarse ones may be used for puddings, pan-cakes, etc. 

CRACKERS. 

Sift into a pint of flour a heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder, four 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a teaspoonful salt and the vhite of an 
egg beaten, and one cup of milk ; mix it with more flour, enough to make 
a very stiff dough, as stiff as can be rolled out ; pounded and kneaded a 
long time. Roll very thin, like pie-crust, and cut out either round or 
square- Bake a light brown. 



SR£Ai>^B/SeVITS, KOLIS. MUPflNS. BTC. %»,% 

Stale o-ackers are made crisp and better by placing them in the ovca a few 
moments before they are needed for the table. 

FRENCH CRACKERS. 
Six eggs, twelve tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, six tablespooofuls of butter, 
half a teaspoouful of soda; mold with flour, pounding and working half an 
hour; roll it thm. Bake with rather quick fiie. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH OR HASTY PUDDING. 

Put two quarts of water into a clean diimer-pot or stew-pan, cover It, and 
let it become boiling hot over the fire; then add a tablespoonful of salt, take off 
the light scum from the top, have sweet, fresh yellow or white corn-meed; take 
a handful of the meal ^vith the left hand, and a pudding-stick in the right, then 
with the stick, stir the water around, and by degrees let fall the meal; when 
one handful is exhausted, refill it; continue to stir and add meal until it is as 
thick as you can stir easily, or tmtil the stick \vill stand in it; stir it a while 
longer; let the fire be gentle; when it is suflSciently cooked, which will be in half 
an horn-, it will bubble'or puff up; turn it into a deep basin. This is eaten cold or 
hot, with milk or with butter, and syrup or sugar, or with meat and gravy, 
the same as potatoes or rice. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Make it like the above recipe, turn it into bread-tins, and when cold slice it, 
dip each piece in flour and fry it in lard and butter mixed in the frying-pan. 
turning to brown well both sides. Must be served hot. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 
Sift Graham meal slowly into boilmg salted water, stirring briskly until thick 
as can be stirred with one hand; serve \vith milk or cream and sugar, <5r butter 
and syiiip. It will be improved by removing from the kettle to a pan, as soon 
as thoroughly mixed, and steaming three or four hours. It may also be eaten 
cold, or sUced and fried, like corn-meal mush. 

OATMEAL. 
Soak one cup of oatmeal in a quart of water over night, boil half an hour in 
the morning, salted to taste. It is better to cook it in a dish set into a dish of 

boiling water. 

■RICE CROQUETTES 
Boil lor thirty minutes one cup of well-washed rice, in a pint of milk; whip 
into the hot rice the following ingredients: Two ounces of butter, two ounces 



lAA BJi£AJD- BISCUITS. MOILS. MUPI'INS, BTC. 

of sugar, sonio salt, and when slightly cool add the yoiJcs of two eggs veil 
beaten; if too stiff pour in a little more milk; when cold, roll into small balls 
and dip in beaten eggs, roll in fine cracker or bread-crumbs, and fry same a* 
doughnuts. Or they may be fiied in the fiying-pan, with a tablespoonful each 
of butter and lard mixed, tuiumg and frying both sides brown. Serve very hot. 

HOMINY 
This form of cereal is very little known and consequently little appreciated in 
most Northern liouseholds. " Big hominy " and " little hominy," as they are 
called in the South, are staple dishes there and generally take the place of oat- 
meal, which is apt to be too heating for the climate. The former is called 
** samp " here. It must be boiled for at least eight hours to be properly cooked, 
and may then be kept on hand for two or three days and warmed over, made 
Into croquettes or balls, or fried in cakes. The fine hominy takes two or three 
hours for proper cooking, and should be cooked in a dish set into another of 
♦wiling water, and kept steadily boiling until thoroughly soft. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

To a cupful of cold boiled hominy, add a teaspoonful of melted butter, and 
etir it well, adding by degiees a cupful of milk, till all is made into a soft, light 
paste; add a teaspoonful of white sugar, a pinch of salt, and one well-beaten 
egg. Roll it into oval balls with floured hands, dipped in beaten egg, then rolled 
ia cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

The hominy is best boiled the day or morning before using. 

BOILED RICE 

Take half or quarter of a pound of the best quality of rice; wash it in a 
strainer-, and put it in a sauce-pan, with a quart of clean water and a pinch of 
salt; let it boil slowly till the water is all evaporated — see that it does not bum 
—then pour in a teacupful of new milk; stir carefully from the bottom of thp 
sauce-pan, so that the upper grain may go under, but do not smash it; cloS( 
the lid on your sauce-pan carefully down, and set iton a cooler part of the fire, 
where it will not boil; as soon as it has absorbed the added milk, serve it up 
with fresh new milk, addmg fruit and sugar for those who like them. 

Another nice way to cook rice is to take one teacupful of rice and one 
quart of milk, place in a steamer, and steam from two to three hours; when 
nearly done, stir in a piece of butter as large as the yolk of an egg, and a pinch 
of salt. You can use sugar if you like. Tlie difference in the time of cooking 
depends on your rice — the older the rice, the longer time it takes to cook. 



MJtEAD— BISCUITS, ROLLS, MUI^JPJNS. ETC. J45 

SAMP, OR HULLED CORN. 

An old-fashioned way of preparing hulled com was to put a peck- of old, 
dry, ripe corn into a pot filled with water, and with it a hag of hard- wood ashes, 
say a quart. After soaking awhile it was boiled until the skins or hulls came 
oflf easily. The com was then washed in cold water to get rid of the taste of 
potash, and then boiled" until the kernels were soft. Another way was to take 
the lye from the leaches whel-e potash was made, dilute it, and boil the corn 
in this until the skin or hull came off. It makes a dehcious dish, eaten with milk 
or cream. 

CKACKED WHEAT. 

Soak the wheat over night in cold water, about a quart, of water to a cup of 
wheat; cook it as directed for oatmeal: should be thoroughly done. Eaten with 
sugar and cream. 

OAT FLAKES. 

This healthful oat preparation may be procured from the leading grocers, 
and is prepared as follows: Put into a double sauce-pan Or porcelain-lined pan 
a quart of boiling water, add a saltspoonful of salt, and when it is boiling, add, 
or rather stir in gradually, three oxmces of flakes. Keep stirring to prevent 
burning. Let it boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, and serve with cream 
and sugar. 

Ordinary oatmeal requires two- hours' steady cooking to make it palatable and 
digestible. Wheaten grits and hominy, one hour, but a half hour longer cooking 
will not injure them, -andTmakes them easier of digestion. Never be afraid of 
coofcir^ cereals or preparations from cereals too long, no matter what the directions 
on the package may be 

STEAMED OATMEAL. 

To one teacupful -oatmeal- add a quart of cold water, a teaspoonful of salt; 
put in a steamer over a kettle of cold water, gradually heat and steairt an hour 
and -a half after it begins to«)ok. 

HOMINY. 

Hominy is a preparation of Indian com, broken or grovjnd, either largo or 
small, and is an excellent breakfast dish -in winter or summer- Wash the 
Jwminy thoroughly, in one or two waters, then cover it with twice its depth, of 
cold water, and let "it come to a boil slowly. If it be the large hominy, simmer 
six hours; if the small hominy, simmer two hours. When the water evaporates, 
add hot water; when done, it may be eaten with cream, or allowed to becoma 
cold tmS wawwDfl Lap ia the irying-pan, using a Ettia butt^ to pretrmit bnimio^ 



*A^ BREAD— TOAST. 



Uoast. 

Toast should be made of stale bread, or at least of bread that has been baked 
a day. Cut smoothly in slices, not more than half an inch thick; if the crust is 
baked very hard, trim the edges and brown very evenly, but if it happens to 
bum, that should bo scraped off. Toast that is to be served with anjrthing 
turned over it, should have the slices first dipped quickly in a dish of hot water 
turned from the boiling tea-kettle, with a little salt thrown in... Cold biscuits 
<?it in halves, and the imder crust sliced off, then browned evenly on both sides, 
make equally as good toast. The following preparations of toast are almost all 
of them very nice dishes, served with a family breakfast. 

MILK TOAST. 

Put over the fire a quart of milk, put into it a tablespoonful of cold butter, 
stir a heaping teaspoonful of flour into half a gill of milk» as soon as the milk 
on the fire boUs, stir in the floujc, add a teaspoonful of salt; let all boil up once, 
remove from the fire, and dip in this slices of toasted bread. When all are 
used up, pour what is left of the scalded milk over the toast. Cover, and send 
to the table hot. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Heat a pint of milk to boiling, and add a piece of buttet the size of ^n egg; 
Btir a tablespoonful of flour smoothly into a cup of rich cream, and add some of 
the boiling milk to this; teat it gradually and prevent the flour from lumping; 
then eSr mto the boiling milkf-and let it cook a few moments: - salt to taste. 
After taking from the fire stir in a beaten egg;, strain the mixture on to toast 
lightly buttered. 

AMERICAN TOAST. 

To one egg thoroughly beaten, put one cup of sweet milk^ and a little salt. 
81ice light bread and dip into the mixture, allowing each slice to absorb some of 
&e milk; then brown on a hot, buttered griddle or thick-bottom &ying-pan; 
spread with .butter, and serve hot.- 

NUNS" TOAST. 

Cut four or five hard-boiled eggs into dices. Puta piece of batter half the 

size of an -egg into a sauce-pan, and when it begins to babble add a finely 

chopped ooioo. Let the onion cook a little without taking color, then stir iu' a 

teaspOonM of floiu. Add a cupful of milk, and stir untfl it becomes smooths 



BREAJO— TOAST. 



247 



then put in ttie slices of eggs and let them get hot. Pour over neafly trimmed 
slices of.hot buttered toast. The sauce must be seasoned to taste vrith pepper 
aad.salt. 

CHEESE TOAST. No. i. 

Toast thin slices of bread an even, crisp brown. Place on a warm plate, 
allowing one small slice to each person, and pour on enough melted cheese to 
cover them. Rich new cheese is best. Serve while warm. M?my prefer a little 
prepared mustard spread over the toast before putting on the cheese. 

CHEESE TOAST. No. 2. 

Put half an ounce of butter in a fiying-pan; when hot, add gradually four 
ounces of mild American cheese. Whisk it thoroughly until melted. Beat 
together half a pint of cream and two eggs; whisk into the cheese, add a little 
salt, pour over the crisp toast, and serve. 

The two above recipes are usually called " Welsh Earebit.'* 

OYSTER TOAST. 

Select the large ones, used for frying, and first dip them in beaten egg, then 
in either cracker or bread-crumbs, and cook upon a fine wire gridiron, over a 
quick fire. Toast should be made ready in advance, and a rich cream sauce 
Doured over the whole. After pouring on the sauce, finely cut celery strewn 
over the top adds to their delicacy. 

Or, wash oysters in the shell, and put them on hot coals, or upon the top of 
a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven; open the shells with an oyster-knife, 
taking care to lose none of the liquor. Dip the toast into hot, salted water 
quickly, and turn out the oyster and Uquor over the toast; season with salt and 
pepper, and a teaspoonful of melted butter over each. 

Oysters steamed in the shell are equally as good. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 

Peel a quart of mushrooms, and cut off a Utile of the root end. Melt an 
oonce of butter in the frying pan, and fry in it half a pound of raw minced steak; 
add two saltspoonfuls of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a gill of hot water; fry 
until the juices are extracted from the meat; tilt the pan and squeeze the meat 
with the back of tJbe spoon until there is nothing left but dry meat, then r^nove 
it; add the mushrooms to the Uquid, and if there is not enough of it, add more 
butter; ^css them about a moment and pour out on hot toast. 

Some add a little sherry to the dish before removing from tke Are. 



248 BR£Al>—7X>AST. 

TOMATO TOAST. 

Pare and stew a quart of ripe tomatoes until smooth. Season with salt, 
pepper and a tablespoonful of butter. When done, add one cup sweet cream 
and a little flour. Let it scald but not boU; J-emove at once. Pour over slices 
of dipped toast, well-buttered. 

EGGS ON TOAST. 

Various preparations of eggs can be served on toast, first dipping slices of 
well- toasted bread quickly in hot salted water, then turning over them scrambled, 
poached or creamed eggs, all foimd in the recipes among " Eggs." 

BAKED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Toast six slices of stale bread, dip them in hot salted water and butter them 
lightly. After arranging them on a platter or deep plate, break enough eggs to 
cover them, breaking one at a time, and slip over the toast so that they do not 
break; sprinkle over them salt and pepper, and turn over all some kind of thick- 
ened gravy— either chicken or Iamb, cream or a cream sauce made the same as 
" White Sauce "; turn this over the toast and eggs, and bake in a hot oven imtD 
the eggs are set, or about five minutes. Serve at once. 

HAM TOAST. 
Take a quarter of a pound of either boiled or fried ham, chop it fine, mix it" 
with the yolks of two eggs, well-beaten, a tablespoonful of butter, and enough 
cream or rich milk to make it soft, a dash of pepper. Stir it over the fire until 
it thickens. Dip the toast for an instant in hot, salted water; spread over some 
melted butter, then turn over the ham mixture. Serve hot. 

REED BIRDS ON TOAST. 

Remove the f eathefs and legs of a dozen reed birds, split them down the back, 
remove the entrails, and place them on a double broiler; brush a little melted 
butter over them, and broil the inner side thoroughly first; then lightly broil 
the other side. Melt one-quarter of a pound of butter, season it nicely with salt 
end pepper, dip the birds in it, and arrange them nicely on slices of toast. 

MINCED FOWLS ON TOAST 

Remove from the bones all the meat of either cold roast or boiled fowk. 

C\S3XL it from the skin, and keep covered from the air, until ready for use. BoO 

the bones and skin with three-fourths of a pi|it of water untfl reduced quite 

half. SiKun Uie gravy and lat it oooL "Svxi, takTing skimmed off the fat, pat 



aRBAD—TOAST. 349 

It into a clean sauce-pan with half a cup of cream, three tablespoonf uls of butter, 
well-mixed with a tablespoonful of flour. Keep these stirred until they boil. 
Then put in the fowl finely minced, with three hard-boiled eggs, chopped, and 
Buflicient salt and pepper to season. Shake the mince over the fire imtil just 
ready to serve. Dish it over hot toast and serve. 

HASHED BEEF ON TOAST. 

Chop a quantity of cold roast beef rather fine, and season it well with peppei 
and salt. For each pint of meat add a level tablespoof ul of flour. Stir well, and 
add a small teacupful of soup-stock or water. Put the mixture into a sraaJJ 
stew-pan, and, after covering it, simmer for twenty minutes. Meanwhile, 
toast half a dozen slices of bread nicely, and at the end of the twenty minutes 
spread the meat upon them. Serve at once on a hot dish. In case water be 
used instead of soup-stock, add a tablespoonful of butter just before spreading the 
beef upon the toast. Any kind of cold meat may be prepared in a similar manner. 

— Maria Parlaa. 
VEAL HASH ON TOAST. 

Take a teacupful of boiling water in a sauce-pan, stir in an even teaepoonful 
of flour, wet in a tablespoonful of cold water, and let it boil five minutes; add 
one-half teaspoonf ul of black pepper, as much salt, and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and let it keep hot, but not boiL Chop the veal flne, and mix with it 
half as much stale bread-crumbs. Put it in a pan, and pour the gravy over it, 
then let it simmer ten ndnutes. Serve this on buttered toast. 

CODFISH ON TOAST. (Cuban Style.) 
Take a teacupful of freshened codfish, picked up fine. Fry a sliced onion 
in a tablespoonful of butter; when it has turned a Ught brown, put in the fish 
with water enough to cover it; add half a can of tomatoes, or half a dozen of 
fresh ones- Cook all nearly an hour, seasoning with a little pepper. Serve 
on slices of dipped toast, hot. Very fine. 

Plain creamed codfish is very nice turned over dipped toast. 

HALIBUT ON TOAST. 

Put into boiling, salted water, one pound of fresh halibut; cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes, or imtil done; remove from the water and chop it fine; then add 
half a cup of melted butter, and eight eggs well beaten. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

Place over the fire a thick-bottomed frying-pan containing a tableq>oonful of 
cold batter; wlwn it begins to melt, tip the pan so aa to grease the sides; t^o 



as© VKEAD— TOAST. 

put in the fish and eggs and stir one way until the eggs are cooked, but oot too 
bard. Turn over toast, dipped in hot, salted water. 

CHICKEN HASH WITH RICE TOAST. 
Boil a cup of rice the night before; put it into a square, narrow bread-pan, 
set it in the ice-box. Next morning, cut it into half -inch slices, rub over each 
slice a little warm butter, and toast them on a broiler to a delicate brown. Ar- 
range the toast on a warm platter and turn over the whole a chicken hash, made 
from the remains of cold fowl, the meat picked from the bones, chopped fine, 
put into the frying-pan, ^vith butter, anda Uttle water to moisten it, adding pep- 
per and. salt. Heat hot all through. Serve immediately. 

APPLE TOAST. 
Cut six apples into quarters, take the core out, peel and cut them in 
slices; put in the sauce-pan an ounce of butter, then throw over the apples 
about two ounces of white powdered sugar and two tablespoonfuls of water; 
put the sauce-p«m on the fire, let it stew quickly, toss them up, or stir ^vith a 
spoon; a few minutes wiU do them. When tender, cut two or three slices of 
bread half an inch thick; put in a frying-pan two ounces of butter, put on the 
fire; when the butter is melted, put in your bread, which fry of a nice yellowish 
color; when nice and crisp, take tlxem out, place them on a dish, a little white 
sugar over, the apples about an inch thick. Serve hot. 




SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD TO CAKE MAKING. 

Use none but the best materials, and all the ingredients should be properly 
prepared before commencing to mix any of them. Eggs beat up much lighter 
and sooner by being placed in a cold place some time before vising them; a small 
pinch of soda sometimes has the same effect. Flour should always be sifted 
before using it. Cream of tartar or baking-powder should be thoroughly mixed 
with the flour; butter be placed where it will become moderately soft, but not 
melted in the least, or the cake will be sodden and heavy. Sugar should be 
rolled and sifted; spices ground or pounded; raisins or any other fruit looked 
over and prepared; currants, especially, should be nicely washed, picked, dried 
in a cloth, and then carefully examined, that no pieces of grit or stone may be 
left amongst them. They should then be laid on a dish before the fire to become 
thoi-oughly dry; as, if added damp to the other ingredients, cakes will be liable 
to be heavy. 

Eggs should be well-beaten, the whites and yolks separately, the yolks to a 
thick cream, the whites until they are a stiff froth. Always stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, then add the beaten yolks, then the milk, the flavoring, then 
the beaten whites, and lastly the flour. If fruit is to be used, measure and 
dredge with a little sifted flour, stir in gradually and thoroughly. 

Pour all in well-buttered cake-pans. While the cake is baking, care should 
be taken that no cold air enters the oven, only when necessary to see that the 
cake is baking properly; the oven should be an even, moderate heat, not too 
cold or too hot; much depends on this for success. 

Cake is often spoiled for being looked at too often when first put into the 
oven. The hra.t ^lould be tested before the cake is put in, wliich can be done 
by throwing on the floor of the oven a tablespoonful of new flour. If the floor 
takes Bse. or a^sum^^s a dark-brown color, the temperature is too high, aai. the 



253 CAKES. 

oven must be allowed to cool; i£ the flour remains white after the lapse of a few 
seconds, the temperature is too low. When the oven is of the proper tempera- 
ture, the flour will slightly brown and look slightly scorched. 

Another good way to test the heat, is to drop a few spoonfuls of the cake, 
batter on a small piece of buttered letter-paper, and place it in the oven during 
the finishing of the cake, so that the piece vrill be baked before putting in the 
whole cake ; if the little drop of cake-batter bakes evenly without burning 
around the edge, it will be safo to put the whole cake in the oven. Then again 
if the oven seems too hot, fold a thick brown paper double, and lay on the 
bottom of the oven; then after the cake has risen, put a thick brown paper over 
the top, or butter well a thick white paper and lay carefully over the top. 

If, after the cake is put in, it seems to bake too fast, put a brown paper 
loosely over the top of the pan, '"are being taken that it does not touch the cake, 
and do not open the door for five minutes at least; the cake should then be 
quickly examined, and the door shut carefully, or the rush of cold air will cause 
it to fall. Setting a small dish of hot water in the oven, will also prevent the 
cake from scorching. 

To ascertain when the cake is done, run a broom straw into the middle of it; 
if it comes out clean and- smooth, the cake will do to take out. 

Where the recipe calls for baking powder, and you have none, you can use 
cream tartar and soda in proportion to one level teaspoonful of soda, two 
heaping teaspoon fuls of cream tartar. 

When sour milk is called for in the recipe, use only soda. Cakes made with 
molasses burn much more easily than those made with sugar. 

Never stir cake after the butter and sugar is creamed, but beat it down fron; 
the bottom, up, and over; this laps air into the cake-batter, and produces little 
air cells, which causes the dough to puff and swell when it comes in contact 
with the heat while cooking. 

When making most cakes, especially sponge cake, the flour should be 
added by degrees, stirred very slowly and lightly, for if stiired hard and fast it 
win make it porous and tough. 

Cakes should be kept in tight tin cake-cans, or earthem jars, in a cool, dry 
place. 

Cookies, Jumbles, ginger-snaps, etc., require a qui<^ oven; If thoy become 
moist or soft by keying, put again into the oven a few minutes. 

To remove a cakd fsom a tin after it is baked, so that it will cot crack, break 
or fall, first butter the tin well all around the sides and bottom; VbQU cot a 
piece ef tottor-papo' to exactly fit the tia, butter tbat oa boUi stdes, placing 



CAJOSS. 253 

it smootUj on the bottom aad sides of the tin. When the cake is baked, let it 
remain in the tin until it is cold\ then set it in the oven a minute, or- just long 
.enough to warm- the tin through. Remove it from the oven; turn it upside 
down on your hand, tap the edge of the tin on the table and it will slip out with 
case, leaving it whole. 

If a cake-pan is too shallow for holding the quantity of cake to be baked, for 
fear of its being so light .as to rise above the pan, that can be remedied by 
thoroughly greasing a piece of thick glazed letter-paper with soft butter. Place 
or fit: it around the sides, of the buttered tin, allowing it to j-each an inch or 
more above the top. If the oven heat is moderate, the butter will preserve the 
paper from burning. 

FROSTING OR ICING. 

In the first place, the eggs should be cold, and the platter on which they are 
to be beaten aJso cold Allow, for the white of one egg, one small ieacupful 
of powdered sugar. Break the eggs and throw a small handful of the sugar on 
them as soon as you begin beating; keep"addifag it at intervals until it is all ,used 
up. The eggs must riot be beaten until the sugar has been added in this way, 
which gives a smooth, tender fr6stmg, and one that wiU dry much sooner than 
the old way. 

Spread with a broad knife evenly over the cake, and 4f it seems too thin, beat 
In a little more sugar. Cover the cake vrith two coats, the second after the first 
has become dry, or nearly so. If the icing gets too dry or stiff before the last 
coat is needed, it can be thinned sufficiently with.aUttle water, enough to make 
ft work smoothly. 

A little lemon-juice, or half a teaspoonful of tartaric acid, added to the frost> 
ing while being beaten, makes it white and more frothy. 

The- flavors mostly used are lemon, vanilla, almond, rose, chocolate, and 
orange. If you wish to ornament with figures or flowers, make up rather more 
icing, keep about one-third out until that on the calce isdried; then, with a clean, 
glass svTinge, apply it in such forms as you desire and dry as before; what .yoa 
keep out to ornament with may be tinted pink with cochineal, blue with indigo, 
yellow with saffron or the gi'ated rind of an orar^ strained through a cloth, 
green with spinach juice, and brown with chocolate, purple with cochineal and 
indigo. Sti-awbeny, or currant and cranberry juices color a delicate pink. 

Set the cake in a cool oven with the door open, to dry. or in a draught in an 
c^)en window. 



i;4 CAJTJSS. 

ALMOND FROSTING. 
Tha whttos of three eggs, beaten up with three cups of fine,^ white sugar. 
Blanch a pound.of sweet almonds, pound them in amortarwith a little sugar, 
until a fine paete^ then add the whites of eggs, sugar and vanilla extract. Pound 
a few minutes to thoroughly mix. Cover the cake with a very thick coating of 
this, set in a cool oven to dry, af terwanis cover with a plain icing. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

The whites- of four eggs, three cups of powdered sugar, and nearly a cup of 
grated chocolate. Beat the whites a very little, they must not become white; 
stir in theohooolate, then put in the sugar gradually, beating to mix it well 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE ICING. 
Put into a shallow pan four tablespoonf uls of scraped chocolate, and place it 
where it will melt gradually, but not scorch; when melted, stir in three table- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream, and one of water; mix all well together, and add 
one scant teacupful of sugar; boil about five minutes, and while hot, and when 
the cakes are nearly cold, spread some evenly over the surface of one of ..the 
cakes; put a second one on top^ alternating the mixture and cakes; then cover 
top and sides, alid set in a warm oven to harden. All who have tried recipe 
after recipe, vainly hoping to find one where the chocolate sticks to the cake 
and not to the fingers, will appreciate the above. In making those most palat< 
able of cakes, " Chocolate Eclairs," the recipe just given will be found very 
eatisfactoiy. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICING. 
Mix with boiled icing one ounce each of dumped citron, candied cherries, 
seedless raisins, -candied pineapple, and blanched almonds. 

SUGAR ICING. 
To one pound of extra refined sugar, add one ounce of fine white starch; 
pound finely together, and then sift them through gauze; then beat the whites 
of three eggs to a froth. The Secret of success is to beat the eggs long enough, 
and always one way; add the powdered sugar by degrees, or it will spoil the 
froth of the eggs. When all the sugar is stirred kj, continue the whipping for 
balf an hour lor^r, adding more sugar if the fee Is too tlmi, TaSe a little 
of fhb icing and lay it aside for ornamenting afterward. When the cake comes 
odt Ot Che oven, spread the sugar icing smoothly over it with a knife, and Srj ' 



it at once in a cool oven. For ornamenting the cake, the icing may be tinged 
any color preferred. For pink, use a few drops of cochineal; for yellow a 
pinch of saffron, dissolved; for green, the juice of some chopped spinach 
VVhichever is chosen, let the coloring be first mixed with a little colorless 
spirit, and then stirred into the white icing until the tint is deep enough 
To ornament the cake with it, make a cone of stiff writing paper, and squeeze 
the colored icing through it, so as to form leaves, beading or letters, as the 
sase may be^ It requires nicety and care to do it with success. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

To one pound of finest pulverised sugar, add three vfine-glassfuls of clear 
water. Let it stand until it dissolves; then boil, it until it is perfectly clear and 
threads from the spoon, Beat well the v^^hites of four eggs. Pofir the sugar into 
the dish with the eggs, but do not mix them until the syrup is luke-warm; then 
bea;t all well together for one half hour. 

Season to your taste vnth vanilla, rose-water, or lemon-juice. The first coat- 
ing may be put on the cake as soon as it is well mixed. Eub the' cake with a 
little flour before you. apply the icing. While the first coat is drying, continue 
to beat the remainder; you will not have to wait long if the cake is set in a warm 
place near the fire. This is said to be a most excellent recipe for icing., 

FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS. 

An excellent frosting may be made without eggs or gelatine, which will keep 
longer, and cut more easily, causing no breakage or crumbling, and withal is 
very economical, 

Talce one cup of granulated sugar; dampen it with one-fourth of a cup of 
milk, or five tablespoonfuls; place it on the fire in a suitable dish, and stir it 
until it boils; then let it boil for five minutes without stirring; remove it from 
the fire and set the dish in another of cold water; add flavoring. While it ia 
cooling, stir or beat it constantly, and it wiU become a thick, creamy frosting. 

GELATINE FROSTING. 
Soak one t^aspoonf ul of gelatine in one tablespoonful of cold water half an 
hour, dissolve in two tablespoonfuls of hoi water; add one cup of powdered sugar 
and stir imtil smooth. 

GOLDEN FROSTING. 
A very delicious and handsome frosting can be made by using the yolks ot 
eggs "instead of the whites. Proceed exactly as for ordinary frosting. It will 
harden ^t as nicely^ as that does.- This is particularly good for orange cake. 



'56 CAXSS. 

harmonizing with the color of the cake in a way to please those who love rich 
coloring. 

BREAD OR RAISED CAKE. 
Two cupfuls of raised dough; beat into it two-thirds of a cup of butter and two 
cups of sugar creamed together, three eggs, well beaten, one even teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of milk, half a nutmeg grated, one table- 
spoonful of cumamon, a teaspoonful of cloves, one ctip of raisins. Mix all weD 
t,)gether, put in the beaten whites of eggs and raisins last; beat" all hard for 
several minutes; put in buttered pans, and let it stand half an hour to rise again 
Osfore baking. Baks in a modefrate oven. Half a glass of brandy is an im- 
p^3T£ffient, if you baye it convenient, 

FRUIT CAKE. (Superior.) 
Three poimds dry flour, one pound sweet butter, one pound sugar, three 
pounds stoned raisins, two pounds currants, three-quarters of a pound sweet 
claionds blanched, one poimd citron, twelve eggs, one tablespdonful allspice,] 
c no teaspoonful cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two nutmegs, one wine' 
glass of wine, one wine-glass of brandy, one coffee-cupful molassas with the 
spices in it; steep this gently twenty or thirty minutes, not boiling hot; beat the 
eggs very lightly; put the fruit in last, stirring it gradually, also a teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of water; the fruit should be well'floured; if 
necessaiy add flour after the fruit is in; butter a sheet of paper and lay it in the 
pan. Lay in some sUces of citron, then a layer of the mixture, then of citron 
again, etc., till the pan is nearly fulL Bake three or four, hours, according to 
the thickness of the loaves, m a tolerably hot oven, and with steady heat. Let 
it cool in the oven gradually. Ice when cold. It improves this cake very mucb 
to add three teaspoOuf uls of baking-powder to the flour. A fine wedding-cake 
recipe. 

FRUIT CAKE BY MEASURE. (ExceUent) 
Two scant tea,:upful3 of butter, three cupfuls of dark-brown sugar, six eg^ 
whites and yolks beaten separately, one pound of raisins, seeded, one of cur- 
rants, washed and dried, and half a pound of citron cut in thin strips; also half 
a cupful of cooking molasses, and half a cupful of sour milk. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, add to that half a grated nutmeg, one tablespoonful of ground 
dtmamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of mace, a4d the molasses 
and sour milk. Stir all well; then put in the beaten yolks of egg, a wine-glass 
of brandy; stir again all thoroughly, and then add four cupfuls of sifted lour, 
alternately with the beaten whites of egg. Now dissolve a level teaspooaf ul oi 



CAKBS. «57 

Boda, and stir in thoroughly Mix the fruit together, and stir into it two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of flour j then stir it in the cake. JButter two common-sized bak- 
ing-tins carefully, line them with letter-paper weU buttered, and bake in A mod- 
erate oven two hours. After it is baked, let it cool in the pan. Afterward put 
it into a tight can, or let it remain in the pans and cover tightly. B^st recipe 

ofaU. 

—Mrs. S. a. Camp, Orand Rapids, Mich. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two and one- 
half cups of flour, the whites of seven eggs, two even teaspoonf uls of baking- 
powder, one poimd each of seeded raians, figs, and blanched alinonds, and one- 
quarter of a pound of citron, all chopped fine. Mix all thoroughly before adding 
the fruit; add a teaspoonful of lemon extract.- Put baking-powder in the floiu", 
and mix it well before adding it to the other ingredients. Sift a little flour over 
the fruit before stirring it ia Bake slowly- two hours and try with a splint to 
see when it is done. A cup of grated cocoanut is a nice addition to this cake. 

MOLASSES FRUIT CAKE. 

One teacupf ul of butter, one teacupful of brown sugar, worked well together} 
next two teacupfuls of cooking molasses, one cupful of milk with a teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in it; one tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful Of cinnamon, 
and one teaspoonful of cloves; a little grated nutmeg. I^ow add foiu- eggs well- 
"beaten, and five cups of sifted flour, or enough to make a stiff batter. Flour a 
cup of raisins, and one of currants; add last. Bake in a very moderate ovenj 
one hour. If well covered-will keep six months. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs. Beat the yolks to a cream, to 
which add two teacupfuls of powdered sugar, beating again from five to ten 
minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of milk or water, a pinch of salt, and 
flavoring. Now add part of the beaten whites; then two cups of flour in which 
you have sifted two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; mix gradually into the 
above ingredients, stirring slowly and lightly, only enough to mix them well; 
lastly add the remainder of the whites of the eggs. Line the tins with buttered , 
paper and fill two-thirds f uH 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 
Whites of five eggs, one cup flour, one cup sugar* one teaspoonful baking- 
powdfir{. &ivor with vanilU. Bake in a auick-ov^i. 



liSS CAKSS. 

ALMOND SPONGE CAKE. 

The addition of almonds makes this cake very superior to the usual sponge- 
cake. Sift one pint of fine fiour; blanch in scalding water two ounces of sweet 
and two ounces of bitter almonds, renewing the hot water when expedient; when 
the skins are all off wash the almonds in cold water (mixing the sweet and 
bitter), and wipe them dry; pound them to a fine, smooth paste (one at a time), 
' adding, as you proceed, water or white of egg to prevent their boiling. Set them 
in a cool place; beat ten eggs, the whites and yolks separately, till very smooth 
and thick, and then beat into them gradually two cups powdered sugar in turn 
with the pounded almonds; lastly add the flour, stirring it round slowly and 
lightly on the surface of the mixture, as in common sponge-cake; have ready 
buttered a deep square pan; put the mixture carefully into it, set into the oven, 
and bake till thoroughly done and risen very high; when cool, cover it with plain 
white icing flavored with rose-water or with almond icing. With sweet 
almonds always use a small portion of bitter; without them, sweet almonds have 
little or DO taste, though they add to the richness of the cake. 

Use two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder in the floiu:. 

OLD-FASHIONED SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cups of sifted white sugar, two cups of flour measured before sifting, 
ten eggs. Stir the yolks and sugar together until perfectly light; add a pinch of 
salt; beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, and add them with the 
flour, after beating together lightly; flavor with lemon. Bake in a moderata 
oven about forty-five minutes. Baking-powder is an improvement to this cake, 
using two large teaspoonfuls. 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE. 

Into one level cup of flour put a level teaspoonful of baking-powder and sift 
it. Grate off the yellow rind of a lemon. Separate the whites from the yolks 
of four eggs. Measure a scant cup of white granulated sugar and beat it to a 
cream with the yolks, then add the grated rind and a tablespoonful of the juice 
of the lemon.^ Stir together until thick and creamy; now beat the whites to a 
stiff froth; then quickly and Ughtly mix without beating a third of the flour 
with the yolks; then a third of the whites; then more flour and whites imtil all 
are used. The mode of mixing must be very light, rather cutting down thi-ough 
the cake-batter than beating it; beating the eggs makes them light, but beating 
'the batter makes the cake tough. Bake immediately until a straw run into it 
C£in be withdrawn clean. 

This recipe is especially nice for Charlotte Russe, being so light and poroua 



SAXSS. 35f 

PLAIN SPONGE CAKE. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs together with two cups of fine powdered sugar. 
Stir in gradually one cup of sifted flour, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a 
stiff frothy then a cup of sifted flour in which two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 
have been stirred, and lastly, a scant teacupful of boiling water, stirred in a little 
at a time. Flavor, add salt, and, however thin the mixture may seem, do nol 
add any more flour. Bake in shallow tins. 

BRIDES CAKE. 

Cream together one scant cup of butter and three cups of sugar, add ons oap 
of milk, then the beaten whites of twelve eggs; sift three teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder into one cup of corn-starch raized with three cups of sifted flour, and 
beat in gradually with the rest; flavor to taste. Beat all thoroughly, then put 
in buttered tins lined vrith letter-paper well-buttered; bake slowly in a moderate 
oven. A beautiful white cake. Ice the top. Double the recipe if more is 
required. 

ENGLISH POUND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one and one-quarter pounds of flour, obr pound of 
pounded loaf sugar, one pound of currants, oiue eggs, two oimcee of candled 
peel, one-half ounce of citron, one-half oimce of sweet almonds; when liked, a 
little pounded mace. Work the butter to a cream; add the sugar, then the well- 
beaten yolks of eggs, next the flom-, currants, candied peel, which should be cut 
into neat slices, and Uie almonds, which should be blanched and chopped, and 
mix all these well together; whisk the whites of eggs, and let them be thoroughly 
blended with the other ingredients. Beat the cake well for twenty minutes, 
and put it into a round tin, lined at the bottom and sides with strips of white 
buttered paper. Bake it from two hours to two and a half, and let the oven be 
well-heated when the cake is first put in, as, if this is not the case, the currants 
will all sink to the bottom of it. A glass of wine is usually added to the 
mixture; but this is scarcely necessary, as the cake will be found quite rich 
eiiough without it. 

PLAIN POUND CAKE. 

This is the old-fashioned recipe that our mothers used to make, and it 
can be kept for weeks in an earthen jar, closely covered, first dipping letter- 
paper in brandy and placing over the top of the cake before covering the jaic 

Beat to a cream one pound of butter with one pound of sugar, after mix- 
tag wdl with the beaten jolke of twelve eggs, one grated nutmeg, one glase dt, 



^«» CAKES. 

wine, one glass of rose-water. Then stir in one pound of sifted flour, and tfaa 
well beaten whites of the eggs. Bake a nice light brown, 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE. 

One-half cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of milk, and five 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; one teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, 
stirred into four cups of sifted flour. Beat the butter and sugar until very light ; 
to wjiich add the beaten yolks, then the milk, the beaten whites of eggs, then 
the fiour by degrees. Aft«r beating all well together, add a small cocoanut 
grated. ..Line the cake-pans with paper well buttered, and fill rather more than 
half full, and bake in a moderate oven. Spread over the top a thin frosting, 
epiiiikled thickly with grated cocoanut. 

CITRON POUND CAKE. 
Stir two cups of butter to a cream, then beat in the following ingi-edienta 
ea ch one. in,succession:. one pint^^ofj)owdered sugar, oue quart of flour, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, eight eggsTt&e yolfee'and whites beaten separately, and a 
wine-glass of brandy; then last of all add a quarter of a pound of citron cut 
into thin slices and floured. Line two cake-pans with buttered paper and turn 
the cake batter in. Bake in a moderate oven about three quarters of an hour. 

CITRON CAKE. 

Three cups of white sugar and one cup of butter creamed together; one cup 
of sweet milk, six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; one teaspoonful of 
vanilla or lemon extract, two heaping teaspoonfuls of bakiug-powder, sifted with 
four cups and a half of flour.- Oue cup and a half of citron, sliced thin and 
dredged with flour._ Divide into two cakes and bake in tins hned with buttered 
letter-paper. 

LEMON CAKE, 

Three teacupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, five eggs, a level teaspoonfij 
of soda dissolved in a cup of sweet milk, four full cups of sifted flour, and 
lastly, the grated peel and juice of a lemon, the juice to be added the very last. 
Bake in two sliallow tins. When cold, ice with lemon icing, and cut into squares, 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One cup of corn-starch, one of butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, two 
of flour, the whites of seven eggs; rub butter and sugar to a cream; mix one 
teaspoonful cream tartar with the flour and corn-starch; one half teaspoonful 



CAKBS. s6t 

aoda with the sweet milk ; add the miQc and soda to the sugar and butter, then 
add Jour, then the whites of eggs ; flavor to taste. Never fails to be good, 

SILVER, OR.DELICATE CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, two cupfuls of sugar, four cupfuls 
of sifted flour, two-thirds of a cup of butter, flavoring, and two teaspoonfuls o! 
baking-powder. Stir the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the milk and 
flavoring,part of the flour, the beaten whites of eggs, then the rest of the flour. 
Bake carefully in tins lined with buttered white paper. 

When using the whites of eggs for nice cake, the yolks need not be wasted ; keep 
them in a cool place and scramble them. Serve on toast or with chipped beef. 

GOLD CAKE. 
After beating to a cream one cup and a half of butter and two cups of 
white sugar, stir in the well-whipped yolks of one dozen eggs; four cupfuls of 
sifted flour, one teaspoonful of baking-powder. Flavor with lemon. Line the 
bake-pans with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

GOLD OR LEMON CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, the yolks of six eggs, and one whok 
one; the grated rind and juice of a lemon or orange; half a teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in half a cup of sweet milk; fom* cups of sifted flour, sifted twice; cream 
the butter and sugar, then add the beaten yolks and the flour, beating hard for 
several minutes. Last add the lemon or orange, eind bake, frosting if liked. 
This makes a more suitable lemon cake than if made with the wliite parts of 
eggs added. 

SNOW CAKE. (Delicious.) 

One pound of arrowroot, quarter of a pound of pounded white sugar, half a 
pound of butter, the whites of six eggs, flavoring to taste of essence of almonds 
or vanilla, or lemon; beat the butter to a cream; stir in the sugar and arro\vroot 
gradually, at the same time beating the mixture; wliisk the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth; add them to the other ingredients, and beat well for twenty 
minutes; put in whichever- of the above flavorings may be preferred; pour the 
cake into a buttered mold or tin, and bake it in a moderate oven from one to 
one and a half hours. This is a genuine Scotch recipe, 

MARBLE CAKE. 
White part. — Whites of four eggs, one cup of white sugar, half a cup of 
butter, half a cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla or lemon, and two and a half cups^of sifted fla.ur: 



362 CAKES. 

Dark part.— Yolks of four eggs, one cup of brown sugar, half a cup of cook 
ing molasses, half a cup of butter^ half a cup of £our milk, one teaspoonful oi 
ground cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of mace, one nut- 
meg grated, one teaspoonful of soda,. the soda to be dissolved in a little milk and 
added after part of the flour is stiixed in; one and a half cups of sifted flour. ' 

Drop a spoonful of each kind in a well-buttered cake-dish, first the light part 
then the dark, alternately. Try to drop it go that the cake shall be well-streaked 
through, so that it has the appaarance of marble. 

SUPERIOR LOAF CAKE. 

Two cups of butter, thi-ee cups of sugar, two srnall cups of milk, seven cups 
of sifted flour; four eggs, the whites and yolks separately beaten; one teacupful 
of seeded raisins, one teacupful of well-washed and dried currants, one teacup- 
ful of sliced citron, one tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
mace, one teaspoonful of soda; and one teacupful of home-made yeast. 

Take part of the butter and^warmjt -mth the milk; stir in part of the flour, 
and the yeast, and let it rise; then add the other ingredients with a wine- 
glass of wine or brandy. Turn all into well-buttered cake-tins and let rise 
again. Bake slowly in a moderate oven, for two hours. 

FRENCH'^HOCOI^TE'CAkE; 

The whites of seven eggs, two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
one cup of milk and three of flour, and three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
The chocolate part of the cake is made just the same, only use the yolks of the 
eggs with a cup of grated chocolate stirred into it. , Bake it in layers— the layers 
being light and dark; then spread a custard between them, which is made with 
two eggs, one pint of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour or 
eom-starch; when cool, flavor with vanilla, two teaspoonfuls. Fine. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. No. i. 

One cup of butter and two cups of sugar stirred to a cream, with the yolks 
of five eggs added after they have been well-beaten. ^ Then stir into that one 
cup of milk, beat the whites of two of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add that also; 
now put in three cups and a half of sifted flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder having been stirred into it. Bake in jelly-cake tms. 

Mixture for filling, — ^Take the remaining three whites of the ^gs beaten very 
stiff; two cupfuls of sugar boiled to almost candy or until it becomes stringy or 
almost brittle; take it hot from the fire, and pour it very slowly on the beaten 
whites of egg, beating quite fast; add one half cake of grated chocolate, a tea- 



CAKES. 263 

spoonful of yaniDa extract. Stir it all until cool, then spread between each 
cake,. and over the top and sides. This, when weU-nmde, is the premium cake 
of its kind. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. No. 2. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, three-quarters of a cup sweet miHc, two 
and one-half cups flour, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful soda; bake in shallow pans. 

For the frosting.— Take the whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfds of 
sugar and one tablespoonful of grated chocolate (confectioners') to one egg; put 
the cake together with the frosting, then frost the top of the cake with the same. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. No. 3. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, yolks of five eggs and whites of two, and 
one cup milk- Thoroughly mix two teaspoonfuls baking-powder with three and 
one-half cups flour, while dry; then mix all together. Bake in jelly tins. 

Mixture for filling. — ^Whites of three eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful of vaniUa. JBeat 
together, and spread between the layers and on top of the cake. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Cream together- three quarters of a cup of butter and two of white sugar; 
then add one cup of sweet milk, four eggs, whites and yolks separately beaten, 
the yolks added first to the butter and sugar, then the whites; flavor with lemon 
or vanilla; tniy three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder in three cups oi 
sifted flour and add last; bake in jelly-pano. 

For filling. — Make an icmg by beating the whites of three eggs and a cup of 
powdered sugar to a stiff froth. When the cake is cooled, spread a thick layer of 
this frosting over each cake, and sprinkle very thickly with grated cocoanut. 

COCOANUT AND ALMOND CAKE. 

Two and one-half cups powdered sugar, one cup butter, four full cups pre- 
pared flour, whites of seven eggs, whisked stiff; one small cup of milk, with a 
mere pinch of soda; one grated cocoanut, one-half teaspoonful nutmeg, the juice 
and half the grated peel of one lemon; cream, butter and sugar; stir in lemon 
and nutmeg; mix well; add the milk and whites and flovur alternately. Lastly, 
stir in the grated cocoanut swiftly and lightly. Bake in fotir jelly-cake tine. 

Filling.— One ppxmd sweet almonds, whites of four eggs, whisked stiff; one 
heaping cup powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls rose-water. Blanch the almonds. 



364 CAKBS: 

Let them get cold and dry; then pound in a Wedgewood mortar, adding rose 
•water as you go. Save about two dozen to shred for the top. Stir the paste 
Into the icing aftet it is made; spread between the cooled cakes; make that for 
the top a trifle thicker and lay if on heavily." When it has stiffened somewhat, 
stick the'shred almonds closely over it. ' . Set in the oven to harden, but do no! 
let it scorch. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, one-half cup of molas- 
ses, one cup of strong, cold coffee, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, one cup of raisins or currants, and five 
cups of sifted flour. Add the fruit last, rubbed in a little of the flour. Bake 
about one hour. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of cold butter, half a cup of milk; 
one and one-half cups of flour; one teaspoonful of cream tartar; half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda. A nice plain cake — to be eaten while it is fresh. A spoonful of 
dried apple sauce or of peach sauce, a spoonful of jeUy, the same of lemon 
extract, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves and spice — ground — or half a cupful of raisins 
might be added for a change. 

ELECTION CAKE. 

Three cups milk, two cups sugar, one cup yeast; stir to a batter, and let 
stand over night; in the morning add two cups sugar, two cups butter, three 
eggs, half a nutmeg, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one pound raisins, a gOl of 
brandy. 

Brown sugar is much bettor than white for this kind of cake, and it is 
improved by dissolving a half -teaspoonful of soda in a tablespoonful of milk 
in the morning. It should stand in the greased pans and rise some time until 
quite Ught before bakmg. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Foiu- eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two teacups of sugar, one cup 
ot sweet cream, two heapmg cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda; nii-y two 
teaspoonf uls of cream of tartar in the flour before sifting. Add the whites the 
last thmg before the flour, and stir that m gently without beating. 

GOLDEN CREAM-CAKE. 
Yolk§ of eight eggs beaten to the hghtest possible cream, two cupfuls of sugar . 
a pinch of salt, three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder sifted well with flour. Bake 



W> fTlre© jSlly-cakfe pans. Mllf« aB fjfne of the «K1W« «f' three eggs and one 
pouud of sugar. Spread it betweeu the cakes and sprinkle grafted coeoanut 
thickly over each layer. It is delicious when properly made. 

DRIED APPLE FRUIT-CAKE. 

Soak three cupf uls of dried apples over night in cold water enough to swell 
them; chop them in the morning, and put them on the fire with three cups of 
molasses; stew until almost soft; add a cupful of mce raisins (seedless, if possi- 
ble), and stew a few moments; when cold, add three cupf uls of flour, one cupful 
of butter, thiee eggs, and a teaspooiiful of soda, bake in a steady oven This 
will make two good-sized panfuls of splendid cake; the apples will cook like 
citron and taste deliciously. Raisins may be omitted; also spices to taste may be 
added. This is not a dear, but a delicious cake. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

Beat together one teacupful of butter, and three teacupfuls of sugar, and 
when quite light stir in one pint of sifted flour. Add to this, one pound of 
raisins, seeded and chopped, then mixed with a cup of sifted flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of nutmeg, one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and lastly, one pint of 
thick sour cream or milk, in which a teaspoonful of soda is dissolved. Bake 
immediately in buttered tins one hour in a moderate oven. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. No. I. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, tne whites of seven eggs, well- 
beaten, two-thirds cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one cup of corn-starch, 
two teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Bake in jelly-cake tins. 

Frosting. — ^Whites of three eggs and some sugar beaten together not quite as 
stiff aa usual for frosting; spread over the cake; add some grated coeoanut; 
then put your cakes together; put coeoanut and frosting on top. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. No. 2. 

Cream three cupfuls of sugar and one of butter, making it very light, then 
add a cupful of milk. ,. Beat the vyhites of eight eggb very stiff, add half of those 
to the other ingredients. Mix well into four cups of sifted flour one tablespoon- 
ful of baking-powder: stir this into tbe cake, add flavoring, then the remaining 
beaten whites of egg. Bake in layers like jelly -cake. Make an icing for the 
filling, using tbe whites of four eggs beaten to a very stiff froth, with two cups 
of fine white sugar, and the juice of half a lf*mon. Spread each layer of the 



a66 CAKES. 

eake thicMy wfttt this icing, place ons on aaotiier, then i«e all over the top and 
sides. The yolks ieSi from thk cake may be used to make a spice-eake from, 
the ree^ of " Ooklen 8{8ce-Cake." 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

Beat well together one cupful of butter, and three cupfub of white sugar; 
add the yolks of eax eggs and one cupful of milk, two teaspoonf uls of Tanilla qi 
lemon extract. Mix all thoroughly. To four cupf uls of flour, add two heap- 
mg teaspoonf uls of cream of taitar, and sift gently over the cake, stirring all the 
time. To this add one even teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in one tablespoonful 
of warm water. Mix it welL Stir in gently the whites of six eggs beaten to a 
stiif foam. Bake slowly. It should be put in the oven as soon as possible after 
putting in the soda and whites of eggs. 

Ttiis is the same recipe as the one for " Citron Cake," only omitting the citron. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Pot into one tumbler of flour one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, then sift it 
five times, ^ft alto one ^ass and a half of white powdered sugar. Beat to a 
stiff froth the whites of eleven eggs; stir the sugar into the eggs by degrees, 
v«ry lightly and carefully, adding three teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. After 
this, add the flour, stirring quickly and lightly. Pour it into a clean, bright tin 
cake-dish, wliich should not be buttered or lined. Bake at once in a moderate 
oven about forty minutes, testing it witii a broom splint. When done, let it 
remain in the cake-tin, turning it upside down, with the sides resting on the top 
of two saucers, so that a current of air wiD pais under and over it. 

This b the best recipe found after trying several. A perfection cake. 

WASHINGTON LOAF-CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, two scant cups of butter, one cup of sour milk, five 
eggs, and one teaspoonful of soda, three table^Kionf uls of cinnamon, half a nut- 
meg, grated, and two cups of raisins, one of ciinrants, and four cups of sifted 
flour. 

Mix as usual, and stir the fruit in at the last, dredged in flour. line the 
cake-pans with paper well buttered. This cake will take longer to bake than 
plain; the beat of the ov^i must be kept at an even temperature. 

RIBBON CAKE. 
This cake is made from the same recipe as marble cake, only make double 
the quantity of the white part, and divide it in one half; put into it a very little 



CAXSS. S6f 

cochineal. It will be a delicate pink. Bake in jelly-cake tins, and lay first the 
white, then the dark, then the pink one on top of the others; put together with 
frosting between. It makes quite a fancy cake. Frost the top when cooL 

GOLDEN SPICE-CAKE. 

This cake can be made to advantage when you have the yolks of eggs left, 
after having used the whites in making white cake. 

Take the yolks of seven eggs, and one whole eggj two cupfuls of brown 
sugar, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of butter, one large coffee-cupful of 
sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, (just even fuU), and five cupfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonflil of ground cloves, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls 
of ginger, one nutmeg, and a small pinch of Cayenne pepper; beat eggs, sugai* 
and butter to a light batter before putting in the molasses; then add the 
molasses, flour and milk; beat it well together, and bake in a moderate oven; if 
fruit is used, take two cupfuls of raisins, flour .them well and put them in last. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One-half cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, four eggs, one-half cupful almonds, 
blanched— by pouring water on them until skins easily sUp off— and cut in fine 
shreds, one-half teaspoonful extract bitter almonds, one pint flour, one and one- 
feplf teaspoonful baking powder, one glass brandy, one-half cupful milk. Eub 
butter and sugar to a smooth white cream; add eggs, one at a time, beating 
three or four minutes between each. Sift flour and powder together, add to the 
butter, etc., with almonds, extract of bitter almonds, brandy, and milk; mix into 
a smooth, medium batter; bake carefully in rather a hot oven twenty minutes, 

ROCHESTER JELLY CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, one-half cup butter, Ihree-fourtha 
cup milk, two heaping cups flour vvith one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk. Put half the above mixture in a 
small shallow tin, and to the remainder add one teaspoonful motosses, one-half 
cup raisins (chopped) or currants, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, cloves, allspice, 
and a Uttle nutmeg, and one tablespoonful flour. Bake this in same kind of 
tins. Put the sheets of cake together while warm, with jelly between. 

FRUIT, LAYERCAKE. 

This ia a delicious novelty in crake-making. Take one cup of sugar, ball 
i cap of butter, one cup and a half of flour, half a cup of wine, one cup of raietas 



a68 CAX£S. 

two eggs aud half a teaspoonfu) of soda; put these ingredients together with 
care just as if it were a very rich cake; bake it in three layers, and put frosting 
between— the frosting to be made of the whites of two eggs with enough pow- 
dered sugar to make it thick. The top of the cake may be frosted if you choose. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE. 

One cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of soft butter stirred together; add 
ti e yolks of two eggs well beaten, then add four tablespoonfuls of milk, some 
na> -»ring, then the beaten whites of the eggs.. Mix a teaspoonful of cream 
tartar aud half a teaspoon of soda in a cup of flour, sift it into the cake batter, 
and stir in lightly. Bake in a small dripping-pan. When the cake is cool, have 
i-eady half of a pint of sweet cream sweetened and whipped to a stiff froth, also 
flavored. Spread it over the cake while fresh. To whip the cream easily, set it 
on ice before whipping. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE, 

Three eggs, one teacup of fine sugar, one teacup of flour; beat the yolks until 
light, then add the sugar, then add two tablespoonfuls of water, a pinch of salt; 
lastly stir in the flour, in which there should be a heaping teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. The flour added gradually. Bake in long, shallow biscuit-tins, weU- 
greased. Turn out on a damp towel on a bread-board, and cover the top with 
jelly, and roll up while warm. 

TO CUT LAYER CAKE. 

When cutting Layer-Cakes, it is better to first make a round hole in the 
cake, with a knife or tin tube, about an inch and a quarter in diametei This 
prevents the edge of the cake from crumbling when cutting it. 

When making custard filling for Layer-Cake, always set the dish contain- 
ing the custard in another dish of boiling water over the fire; this prevents its 
burning, which would destroy its flavor. 

LAYER JELLY CAKE. 

Almost any soft cake recipe can be used for jelly-cake. The following is 
excellent: One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, three eggs, half a cup of sweet 
milk, two cups of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, flavoring. 

For white, delicate cake, the rule for " SUver Cake " is fine; care should be 
taken, however, that the oven is just right for this cake, as it browns very 
easUy. To be baked in jelly cake tins, in layers, with fillmg put between when 
done. 



CAKES— FILLINGS FOX LAYER CAKES. 269 

Any of the following cake-fiQing recipes may be used ■with^these cate recipes. 

jfiUinos tor Xaiger (Takes. 

No. I. CREAM FILLING. 

Cream filling is made with one pint of new milk, two eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sifted flour (or half cup of com starch), one cup of sugar. Put two-thirda 
of the milk on the stove to boil, stir the sugar, flour and eggs in what is left. 
When the milk boils, put into it the whole, and cook it until it is as thick as 
custard; when cool, add vanilla extract. This custard is nice with a cup of 
hickory nuts, kernels chopped fine, and stirred into it. Spread between the 
layers of cake. This custard can be made of the yolks of the eggs only, tiaving 
the whites for the cake part. 

No. 2. ANOTHER CREAM FILLING. 

One cup powdered sugar, one-fourth cup hot water. Let them simmer 
Beat white of an egg and mix with the above; when cold, add one-half cup 
chopped raisins, one-half cup chopped walnuts, one tablespoonful of grated 
cocoanut. 

No. 3. ICE-CREAM FILLING. 

Make an icing as follows: Three cups of sugar, one of water; boil to a thick, 
clear syrup, or until it begins to be brittle; pour this, boiling hot, over the wdl 
beaten whites of three eggs; stir the mixture very briskly, and pour the sugar 
in slowly; beat it when all in, until cool. Flavor with lemon or vanilla extract. 
This, spread between any white cake layers, answers for •' Ice-Cream Cake." 

No. 4. APPLE FILLING. 

Peel, and slice green, tart apples; put them on the fire with sugar to suit; 
when tender, remove, rub them through a fine sieve, and add a small piece of 
butter. When cold, use to spread between the layers; cover the cake with 
plenty of sugar. 

No. 5 ANOTHER APPLE FILLING. 

One coffee-cup of sugar, one egg, three large apples grated, one lemon grated, 
juice and outside of tjie rind; beat together and cook till quite thick. To be 
cooled before putting on the cake. Spread between layers of cake 



J 70 CAKES—FtU-ti^eS so* LA VER CAfCJSS. 

No. 6w CREAM FROSTING. 

A gup of sweet thick cream whipped, sweetened and flavored with vanilla, 
cut a loaf of Cake in two, spread the frosting between and on the top; this tastes 
like Cfhaarlotte Russe. 

No. 7. PEACH-CREAM FILLING. 

Cut peaches into thin slices, or chop them and prepare cream by whipping 
and sweetening. Put a layer of peaches between the layers of cake and poui 
cream over each layer and over the top. Bananas, strawberries or other fruits 
may be used in the same way, mashing strawberries, and stewing thick with 
powdered sugar. 

No. 8. CHOCOLATE CREAM FOR FILLING. 

Five tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, enough cream or milk to wet it, one 
cupful of sugar, one e^, one teaspoonful vanilla flavoring. Stir the ingredients 
over the fire until thoroughly mixed, having beaten the egg well before adding 
it; then add the vanilla flavoring after it is removed from the fire. 

No. 9. ANOTHER CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

The whites of three eggs Beaten stiff, one cup of sugar, and onj cup of grated 
chocolate, put between the layei« and on top. 

No. 10. BANANA FILLING. 

Make an icing of the whites of two eggs, and one cup and a haU of powdered 
sugar. Spread this on the layers, and then covot tliickly and entirely with 
bananas sliced thin or chopped fine. This cake may be flavored with vanilla 
The top should be simply frosted. 

No. II. LEMON-JELLY FILLING. 

Grate tha yellow from the rind of two lemons and squeeze out the juicoi two 
cupfuls of sugar, the yolks and whites of two eggs beaten separatelyi Mix the 
sugar and yolks, then add the whites, and then the lemons. Now, pour, on a 
cupful of boiling water; stir into this two tablespoonfuls of sifted floiu-, rubbed 
smooth in half a cup of water; then add a tablespoonful of melted butter; cook 
until it thickens. When cold, spread between the layers of cake. Oranges cani 
be vised in place of lemons. 

Another filling of lesaom (wi&out cookl^ is made of the p^ted rind andl 
Jmce of two lemons, and the wMtes of two eggs beaten with one eup of sugar. 



CAKES. ayt 

No. 12. ORANGE-CAKE FILLING. 
Peel two large oranges, remove the seeds, chop them fine, add half a peeled 
lemon, one cup of sugar, and the well-beaten white of an egg. Spread be- 
tween the layers of " SOver Cake " recipe. 

No. 13. FIG FILLING. 

Take a pound of figs, chop fine, and put into a stew-pan on the stove; pour 
over thera a teacupful of water, and add a half cup of sugar. Cook all together 
until soft and smooth. When cold, spread between layers of cake. 

Na 14. FRUIT FILLING. 
Four tablespoonfuls of very fine chopped citron, four tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped seeded raisins; half of a cupful of blanched almonds chopped fine; also 
a quarter of a pound of finely chopped figs. Beat the whites of three eggs to a 
stiff froth, adding half of a cupful of sugar; then mix thoroughly into this the 
whole of the chopped ingi'edients. Put it between the layers of cake when the 
cake is hot, so that it will cook the egg a little. This will be fovmd delicious. 



CUSTARD OR CREAM CAKE. 

Cream together two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter; add half a cup of 
sweet milk in which is dissolved half a teaspoonful of soda. Beat the whites of 
six eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture. Have one heaping teaspoonful 
of cream tai-tar stirred thoroughly into three cups of sifted flour, and add quickly. 
Bake in a moderate oven, in layers like jeUy-cake, and when done, spread cus- 
tard between. 

For the Custard. — Take two cups of sweet milk, put it into a clean suitable 
dish, set it in a dish of boiling water on the range or stove. When the milk 
comes to a boil, add two tablespoonfuls of com-starch or flour stirred into lialf a 
cup of sugar, adding the yolks of four eggs, and a little cold milk. Stir thb into 
the boiling milk, and when cooked thick enough, set aside to cool; afterwards 
add the flavoring, either vanilla or lemon. It is best to make the custard first, 
before making the cake part. 

HICKORY NUT OR WALNUT CAKE. 
Two cups of fine, white sugar, creamed with half a cup of butter, three eggs, 
two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, three cups of sifted flour, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder sifted through the flour.. A tablespoonful (level) of 



9jt tAKBS. 

powdered mace, a coifee^sup of hickory nut or walnut meats, chopped a little. 
Fill the cake pans with a layer of the cake, then a layer of raisins upon that, 
then strew over these a handful of nuts, and so on until. the pan is two-thirds 
full. Line the tins with well-Tiuttered paper, and bake in a steady, but not quick 
oven. This is most excellent. 

CHEAP CREAM CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one table- 
spoonful butter, two heaping teaspoonfuis of baking-powder; flavor to taste. 
Divide into three parts, and bake in round shallow pans. 

Crea7».-r-Beat one egg and one half cup sugar together, then add one quarter 
cup flour, wet with a very little mi lk, and stir this mixture into one half pint of 
i boiling milk, until thick; flavor to taste. Spread the cream when cool between 
the cakes. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

Stir to a cream one cupful of butter and half a cupful of brown sugar; add to 
this two cupfuls of cooking molasses, acupful of sweet milk, a tablespoonful of 
ginger, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon; beat all thoroughly together, then 
add three eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately; beat into this two cups 
of sifted flour, then a teaspoonf ul of soda, dissolved in a spoonful of water, and 
last, two more cupfuls of sifted flour. Butter and paper two common square 
bread-pans, divide the mixture and pour hplf into each. Bake in a moderate 
oven. This cake requires long and slow baking, from forty to sixty minutes. 
I find that if sour.milk is used, the cakes are much lighter, but either sweet or 
sour is most excellent. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

Made the same as "Soft Gingerbread," omitting the eggs, and mixing hard 
enough to roll out like biscuit; rolled nearly half an inch thick, and cut out like 
small biscuits, or it can be baked in a sheet or on a biscuit-tin; cut slits a quarter 
of an inch deep across the top of the tin from side to side. When baked and 
while hot, rub over the top with molasses, and let it dry on. 

These two above recipes are the best I have ever found among a large variety 
that I have tried, the ingfedients giving the best proportion for flavor and 
excellence. 

PLAIN GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of diark cooking molasses, one cup of sour cream, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, dissolved in a little wann water, a teaspoonful'of salt, and on« 
heaping teaspoonful of ginger; make about as thick as cup-cake. To be eatea 
wanxL 



WHITE GINGER BISCUIT. 

One cup of gutter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sour cream or milk, tfareo 
eggs, one teaspoonfiil of soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of warm water, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonfnl of ground cinnamon, and five cups of 
sifted flour, or enough to roll out soft. Cut out rather thick, like biscuits; brush 
over the tops while hot, with the white of an egg, or sprinkle with sugar while 
hot 

The grated rind and the juice of an orange add much to the flavor of ginger , 
cake. 

GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 

This cake is baked in layers like jelly-cake. Divide the silver-cake batter, and 
color it pink with a little cochineal; this gives you pink, white and yellow layers.' 
Put together with frosting. Frost the top. 

This can be put together like marble cake, first a spoonful of one kind, then 
another, until the dish is fuL 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 

Put into a large-sized sauce-pan half a cup of butter, and one cup of hot 
water; set it on the fiie; when the mixture begins to bofl, turn in a pint of sifted 
flour at once, beat and work it well with a vegetable-masher imtil it is very 
smooth. Remove from the fire, and when cool enough add five eggs that have 
been well beaten, first the yolks and then the whites, also half a teaspoonful of 
soda and a teaspoonful of salt. Drop on buttered tins in large spoonfuls, about 
two inches apart. Bake in a quick oven about fifteen minntes. When done 
and quite cold, open them on the side with a knife or scissors, and put in as much 
of the custard as possible, 

Cream for filling.— Made of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sifted flour (or 
half cup of com-staax;h), and one cup of sugar. Put two-thirds of a pint of mik 
over the fire in a doublo boiler, in a third of a pint of mUk; stir the sugar, fiour 
and beaten eggs. As soon as the milk looks like boiling, pour in the mixture,' 
and stir briskly for three minutes, imtil it thickens; then remove from the fire 
and add a teaspoonful of butter; when cool, flavor with vanilla or lemon, and], 
fin your cakes. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 

Make the mixture exactly like the recipe for "Boston Cream Cakes." 
Spread it on buttered pans in oblong pieces about four inches long and one and 
s half wide, to be laid about two inches apart; they must be baked in a rather 



274 CAKES. 

qnick oven, about twenty -five'minu'tes. As soon as baked, ice with chocolate 
icing, and when this is cold, split them on one side, and fill with the same cream 
as " Boston Cream Cakes. 

HUCKLEBERRY CAKE. 
Beat a cup of butter and two cups of sugar toegther until hght, then add a 
half cup of milk, four eggs, beaten separately, the yolks to a cream, and the 
whites to a stiff froth, one teaspoonf ul of grated nutmeg, the same of cinnamon, 
and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. The baking-powder to be rubbed into 
the fiour. Rub one quart of huckleberries well with some flour, and add them last, 
but do not mash them. Pour into buttered pans, about an inch thick; dust the 
tops with sugar and bake. It is better the day after baking. 

SWEET STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, two of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, a 
teaspoonful, heaped, of baking-powder. Beat the butter and sugar together, 
and add the eggs well beaten. Stir in the flour and baking-powder well sifted 
together. Bake in deep tin plate. This quantity will fill four p^tes. With 
three pints of strawberries, mix a cupful of sugar and mash them a little. 
Spread the fruit between the layers of cake. The top layer of strawberries may 
be covered with a meringue made with the white of an egg and a tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar. 

Save out the largest berries, and arrange them around in circles on the top in. 
Uie white frosting. Makes a very fancy dish, as well as a most delicious cake. 

MOLASSES CUP CAKES. 
One cupful of butter, one of sugar, six eggs, five cupfuls of sifted flour, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, three teacupfuls of 
cooking molasses, and one heaping teaspoonful of soda. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream; beat the eggs very light," the yolks and whites separately, and 
add to it; after which put in the spices; then the molasses and flour in rota- 
tion, stirring the mixture all the time; beat the whole vodl before adding the 
soda, and but Uttle afterwards. Put into well-buttered patty-pan tins, and bake 
in a very moderate oven. A baker's recipe. 

BAKERS' GINGER SNAPS. 

Boil all together the following ingredients: Two cups of brown sugar, two 

cups of cooking molasses, one cup of shortening, which should be part butter, 

one targe table^oonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of ground ciimamon, one 

teaspoonful of cloves; remove from the fire and let it cool. In the meantime^ 



sift four cups of flour and stir part of it into the above mixture. Now disecrfro 
a teaspouuful of soda iu a tablespoonful of warm water and beat into ttus mix- 
ture, stir in the remainder of the flour, and make stiff enough to roll into long 
rolls about one inch in diameter, and cut off from the end into half -inch pieces. 
Place them on well-buttered tins, giving plenty of room to spread. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Let them cool before taking out of the tins. 

GINGER COOKIES. 
One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter, one e^, one tablespoonful 
vin^ar, one tablespoonful ginger, one teasooonful soda, dissolved in boiling 
water, mix like cookey dough, rather soft 

GINGER SNAPS. 
One cup brown sugar, two cups moleisses, one large cup buttw, two tea- 
spoonfuls soda, two teaspoonfuls ginger, three pints flour to commence with; 
rub shortening and sugar together into the flour; add enough more flour to roll 
very smooth, very thin, and bake in a quick oven. The dough can be kept for 
days by putting it in the flour-barrel under the flour, and bake a few at a time. 
The more flour that can be worked in and the smoother they can be rolled, the 
better and more brittle they will be. Should be roUed out to wafer-like thin- 
ness. Bake quickly without burning. They should become perfectly cold before 
putting aside. 

DOMINOES. 
Have a plain cake baked in rather thin sheets, and cut into small oblong 
pieces the size and shape of a domino, a trifle larger. Frost the top and sidbs. 
When the frosting is hard, draw the black lines and make the dots, with a smaU 
brush dipped in melted chocolate. These are very nice for children's parties. 

FANCY CAKES. 
These delicious little fancy cakes may be made l^ making a rich jumble- 
paste— rolling out in any desired shape; cut some paste in thick, narrow strips 
and lay around your cakes, so as to form a deep, cup-like edge; place on a well- 
buttered tin and bake. When done, fill with iced fruit, prepared as follows: 
Take rich, ripe peaches (canned nes will do, if flne and well-drained from all 
juice}, cut in halves; plums, strawberries, pineapples cut is squares, vt smaB 
triaagjes, or any other available fruit, and dip in tiie white of an e^ that has 
been vesy [^htly beaten and thai in piilverized sugar, and lay in l&e centre d 
yourcakea 



iJO CAKES. 

WAFERS. 
Dissolve four ounces of butter in half a teacup of milk; stir together four 
ounces of white sugar, eight oimces of sifted flour, and the yolk of one egg, add- 
ing gradually the butter and milk, a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, and 
a pinch of salt; mix it well. Heat the wafer-irons, butter their inner surfaces, 
put in a tablespoonful of the batter, and close the irons immediately; put the 
irons over the fire, and turn them occasionally, until the wafer is cooked; when 
the wafers are all cooked, roll them on a small round stick, stand them upon a 
sieve, and dry them; serve with ices. 

PEACH CAKES 

Take the yolks and whites of five eggs and beat them separately (the whites 
to a stiff froth). Then mix the beaten yolks with half a pound of pulverized and 
sifted loaf or crushed sugar, and beat .the two together thoroughly. Fifteen 
minutes will be none too long for the latter operation if you would have excel- 
lence with your cakes. 

Now add half a pound of fine flour, dredging it in a little at a time, and then 
put in the whites of the eggs, beating the whole together for four or five minutes- 
Then with a large spoon, drop the batter upon a baking-tin, which has been 
buttered and floured, being careful to have the cakes as nearly the same size as 
possible, and resembling in shape the half of a peach. Have a quick oven ready, 
and bake the cakes about ten minutes, watching them closely so that they may 
only come to a light brown color. Then take them out, spread the flat side of 
each with peach jam, and stick them together in pairs, covering the outside with 
a thin coat of icing, which when dry can be brushed over on one side of the 
cake, with a little cochineal water. 

CUP CAKES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, three cups and a half 
of flour, and four eggs, half a teaspoonful oi^/Soda, large spoon cream tartar; stiif 
butter and sugar together, and add the beaten yolks of the eggs, then the milk, 
then flavoring, and the whites. Put cream tartar in flour and add Jast. Bake 
in buttered gem-pans, or drop the batter, a teaspoonful at a time, in rows, on 
flat buttered tins. 

To this recipe may be added a cup of English currants or chopped raisins; 
and a^o another variety of cakes may be made by adding a half cup of citron 
sliced and floured, a half -cupful of chopped almolids, and lemon extract. 



C^ASS" 177 

VARIEGATED CAKES. 

One cup powdered sugar, one-half cup of butter creamed with the sugai-, 
one-half cup of milk, four eggs, the whites only, whipped light, two and one- 
half cups of prepared flour. Bitter almond flavoring, spinach juice and cochineal. 
Cream, the butter and sugar; add the milk, flavoring, the whites and flour. 
Divide the batter into three parts. Bruise and pound a few leaves of spinach in 
a thin muslin bag until you can express the juice. Put a few drops of this into 
one portion of the batter, color another with cochmeal, leaving the third white. 
Put a little of each into small, round pans or cups, giving a light stir to each 
color as you add the next. This will vein the cakes prettily. Put the white 
between the pink and green, that the tints may show better. If you can get 
pistachio nuts to pound up for the green, the cakes will be much nicer. Ice on 
sides and top 

CORN STARCH CAKES. 

One cupful each of butter and sweet milk, and half a cup of com-starch, two 
cupfuls each of sugar and flour, the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
two teaspoonf uls of cream of tartar and one of soda; flavor to taste Bake in 
gem-tins or patty -pans. 

SPONGE DROPS. 

Beat to a froth three eggs and one teacup of sugar; stir into this one heaping 
coffee-cup of flour, ia which one teaspoonf ul of cream of tartar and half a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus are thoroughly mixed, ilavor with lemon. Butter tin 
sheets with washed butter, and drop in teaspoonfuls about three inches apart. 
Bake instantly in a very quick oven. Watch closely as they will bum easily. 
Serve with ice cream. 

SAVORY BISCUITS OR LADY FINGERS. 
Put nine tablespoonfuls of fine white sugar into a bowl, and put the bowl 
mto hot water to heat the sugar; when the sugar is thoroughly heated, break 
nine eggs into the bowl and beat them quickly until they become a little warm 
and rather thick; then take the bowl from the water, and continue beating until 
it is nearly or quite cold; now stir in lightly nine tablespoonfuls of sifted flour; 
then with a paper-fuimel, or something of the kind, lay this mixture out upon 
papers, in biscuits- three inches long and half an inch thick, in the form of 
fingers; sift sugar over the biscuits, and bake them upon tins to a li^t brown; 
when they are done and oold, remove them from the papers, by wetting them 



J 78 CAKES. 

on the back; dry them, and they are ready for use. They are often used in 
making Charlotte Russe. 

PASTRY SANDWICHES. 

Puff-paste, jam of any kind, the white of an egg, sifted sugar. 

RoU the paste out thin; put half of it on a baking-sheet or tin, and spread 
equally over it apricot, greengage, or any preserve that may be preferred. Lay 
over this preserve another thin paste, press the edges together all round, aiid 
mark the paste in hnes vidth a knife on the surface, to show where to cut it 
v/hen baked. Bake from twenty minutes to half an hour; and, a short time 
before being done, take the pastry out of the oven, brush it over wath the white 
of an egg, sift over pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to color. When 
cold, cut it into strips; pile these on a dish pyramidically, and serve. 

This may be made of jelly -cake dough, and, after baking, allowed to cool 
before spreading with the preserve; either way is good, as well as fancifuL 

NEAPOLITAINES. 
One cup of powdered sugar, half a cup of butter, two tablespoonfuls of lemon- 
juice, three whole eggs, and thi-ee yolks, beaten separately; three cups of sifted 
flour. Put this all together with half a teaspoonf ul of soda, dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of milk. If it is too stiff to roll out, add just enough more milk. RoU 
it out a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it out vrith any tin cutter. Place the 
cakes in a pan slightly gieased, and color the tops with beaten egg and milk, 
with some chopped almonds over them. Bake in a rather quick oven. 

BRUNSWICK JELLY CAKES. 

Stir one cup of powdered white sugar, and one half cup of butter together, till 
perfectly light; beat the yolks of three eggs till very thick and smooth; sift three 
cups of flour, and stii- it into the beaten eggs vdth the butter and sugar; add a 
teaspoonf ul of mixed spice (nutmeg, mace and cinnamon) and half a glass -yl 
rose-water or wine; stir the whole well, and lay it on your paste-board, which 
must first be sprinkled with flour; if you find it so moist as to be unmanageable, 
throw in a Uttle more flour; spread the dough into a sheet about haif an inch 
thick, and cut it out in round cakes with a biscuit-cutter; lay them in buttered 
pans and bake about five or six minutes; when cold, spread over the surface of 
each cake a hquor of fruit- jelly or marmalade; then beat the whites of three or 
four eggs till it stapds alone; beat into the froth, by degrees, a sufSoiency of 
powdered loaf-sugar to make it as thick as icing; flavor with a few drops of 
strong essence of lemon, and ^Wth a spoon heap it up on each cake,, making it 



CAKBS:, i>79 

ijn t^|Pti^^ti|^;^^ul;..tlie oakes.iato a coal oven, ftod as soon as the tops are 
cdored a. pale brovm,. take them out. 

UTTLB PLUM CAKES. 
One cup. d£ «u«tur4»t<}''hal£ a cup o£ t)uttei-, beaten to «i smooth cream; add 
th;(;^.well-beas«a etggs, a teaepooii£ul of vanilla extract, four cups of sifted flour,'^ 
pne'eup of ^^j;aisin^ wd one of cuxrantB, half q£ a teaspoonful of bakiag-soda, 
^iesolred in a httle^waier,'"and' milk enough ^to make a stiff batter: drop this 
batter in drops on weU-buttered tins, and bake in a quiek oven. 

JUMBLES. 
Cream together two cups of sugar and one of .butter, add three well-beaten 
eggs and ax tablespooufuls of sweet milk,. two teaspoonfule of baking-powder, 
flavor to taste; flour' enough to make into a soft dough; do not roll it on the 
paste-board, but break off pieces of dough the size of a walnut and make into 
rings by roUing out rolls as large as your imger, and joining the ends; lay them 
on tins to bake, an inch apart, as it rises and spreads; bake in a moderate oven. 
These jumbles are very delicate, will keep a long tinffl. 

WINE JUMBLES. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one wine-glass of wine, one 
spoonful of vanilla, and flour enough to roll out. Boll as thin as the blade of a 
knife, and cut with an oval cutter. Bake on tin-sheets, in a quick oven, until 
a dark brown. These will keep a year if kept in a tin box and ina dry place. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 
Grate one large cupful of cocoanut; rub one cupful of butter wiUione and a 
half cupfulsof sugar; add three beaten eggsjl Whites and yolks scp^nltfily, two 
tableapoonfuls of railk, and five cupfuls of sifted flQur;\then add by degress the 
"grated nut, so as to make a stiff dough, rolled thin, and.cut vittVa rouBd cutter, 
^ving a hole in the middle. Bake in a quick oven from fiVe'to ten i^autes. 

PHILADELPHIA JUMBLES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup <rf butter, eight eggs, beaten light; efsence ol 
|!>i^er almond or rose to ttntei enough flcur to eoable you to roU them out. 

Stir the a^gis^mi. toter to a light creami,, ^&x aM. ]&e wqU-wiiij5)ed eggs, 
ttie flavoringWd flourVnuxwell topther,'^ (wiw p^^ sugar, ndl ia a 
an0fe fiifiHcrtev::fS an i&e^'#ici(-; out kito ric^^Wt^' a''^^e^g-ir<^, a^ bdb \A 



«80 CAKES. 

ALMOND JUMBLES. 

Three cupfuls of soft sugar, two cupfuls of flour, half a cupful of butter, one 
teacupful of loppered milk, five eggs, well-beaten, two tablespoonfuls of rose- 
water, three-quarters of a pound of almonds, blanched and chopped very fine; 
one teaspoonf ul of soda, dissolved in boiling water. 

Cream, butter and sugar; stir in the beaten yolks the milk, flour, rose-water, 
almonds, and, lastly, the beaten whites very lightly, and quickly; drop in rings 
on buttered paper, and bake at once, 

FRUIT JUMBLES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, five cupfuls of flour, five eggs, one 
email teacupful of milk, in which dissolve half a teaspoonful of soda, cream the 
butter; add the sugar; cream again; then add yolks of eggs, the milk, beaten 
whites and flour; a little cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, and ground cloves, and 
one-quarter of a pound of currants, rolled in flour. 

COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, a smaU, teacupful of sweet milk, half a 
grated nutmeg, and five cups of sifted floxir, in which there has been sifted with 
it two teaspoonf uls of baking-powder; mix into a soft dough, and cut into 
round cakes; rdll the dough as thin as pie-crust. Bake. in a quick oven a light- 
brown. These can be made of sour milk and a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
it, or sour or sweet cream can be used in place of butter. 

Water cookies made the same as above, using water in place of milk. Water 
cookies keep longer than milk cookies. 

FAVORITE COOKIES. 
One cup of butter, one and a half cups of sugar, one half cup of sour milK, 
one level teaspoonful of soda, a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Flour enough to 
roll; make quite soft. Put a tablespoonful of fine sugar on a plate and dip the 
tops of each as you cut them out. Place on buttered tins and bake in a quick 
oven, a light brown. 

FRUIT COOKIES 
One cupful and a half of sUgar, one cupful of butter, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, one egg, two teaspoonf uls of baMng-powder, a teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg, three tablespoonfuls of English currants or chopped raisins. Mix soft, and 
roll out, using just enough flour to stiffen sufiici^ntly. Cilt out with a large 
cutter, wet the tops with milk, and sprinkle sugar over them. Bake on buttered 
tins in a quick oven. 



CAXES: »8t 

CRISP COOKIES. (Very Nice) 
One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs well-beaten, a teaspoonfu] 
of soda and two of cream tartar, spoonful of milk, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, 
and one of cinnamon. Flour enough to make a soft dough just stiff enough to 
roll out. Try a pint of sifted flour to begin with, working it in gradually. 
Spread a little sweet milk over each, and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in a quick 
oven a light brown. 

LEMON COOKIES. 

Four cups of sifted flour, or enougb for a stiff dough; one teacupful of butter, 
two cups of sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the grated peel from the outside, 
three e^s, whipped very light. Beat thoroughly each ingredient, adding after 
all id in a half teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a tablespoonf ul of milk. Eoll 
out as any cookies, and bake a light brown. Use no other wetting, 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

One cup grated cocoanut, one and one-half cups sugar, three-foiuths cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, two eggs, one large teaspoonful baking-powder, one- 
half teaspoonful extract of vanilla, and flour enough to roll out. 

DOUGHNUTS OR FRIED CAKES. 
Success in making good fried cakes depends as much on the cooking as the 
mixing. In the first place, there should be boiling lard enough to free them 
from the bottom of the kettle, so that they swim on the top, and the lard should 
never be so hot as to smoke or so cool as not to bei at the boiling point; if it is, 
they soak grease, and are spoiled. If it is at the right heat, the doughnuts will 
in about ten minutes be of a delicate brown outside and nicely cooked inside. 
Five or six minutes will cook a cruller. Try the fat by dropping a bit of the 
dough in first; if it is right, the fat will boil up when it is dropped in. They 
should be turned over almost constantly, which causes them to rise and brown 
evenly. When they are sufficiently cooked, raise them from the hot fat, and 
drain them until every drop ceases dripping. 

CRULLERS OR FRIED CAKES. 
One and a half cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of sour milk, two eggs, two 
scant tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a nutmeg grated, a lapge teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, a teaspoonful of salt, and one of soda; make a little stiffer than 
biscuit doiigh, roU out a quarter of an inch thick, and cut with a fried-cake 
cotter, with a hole in the centre. Fiy in hot lard. 



3S2 rAKJZS 

These can be made with aweet milk and baldng-powder, usii^g two beapiag 
teaepoonfuls of the baking-powder in placo of soda. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 
Old-fashioned "raised doughnUta," are seldom men, now-a-dajs, but are 
easily made. Make a sponge as for bread, using a pint of warm water or milk, 
and a large half cupful of yeast; whcu the sponge is very light, add half a cupful 
of butter or sweet lard, a cofTee-cupful of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt and one 
small teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a Lttle water, one tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon, a Uttle grated nutmeg; stir in now two well-beaten egg?, add sifted flour 
until it is the consistency of biscuit-dough, knead it well, cover and let rise; then 
roll the dough out into a sheet half an inch thick, cut out with a very small 
biscuit-cutter, or in strips half an inch wide and three inches long, place them 
on greased tins, cover them well, and let them rise before frying them. Drop 
them in very hot lard. Raised cakes require longer time than cakes made with 
baking-powder. Sift powdered sugar over them as fast as they are fried, while 
warm. Oiu: grandmothers put allspice into these cakes; that, however, is a 
matter of taste. 

BAKERS' RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Warm a teacupful of lard in a pint of milk; when nearly cool, add enough 
flour to make a thick batter, and add a small cupful of yea£t; beat it well, and 
set it to rise; when light, work in gradually and carefully three cupfuls of sugar, 
the v^rhipped whites of six eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a spoon- 
ful of milk; one teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and half 
of a nutmeg grated; then work in gradually enough flour to make it stiff enough to 
roll out; let it rise again, and when very Ught, roll it out in a sheet an jnch thick; 
cut into rounds; put into .the centre of each round a large Sultana raisin, seeded, 
and mold into perfectly round balls ; flatten a little; let them stand a few minutes 
before boiliug them; have plenty of lard in the pot, and when it boils drop in the 
cakes; when they are a light brown, take them out vn\h a perforated skinuner; 
drain on soft white paper, and roll, while warm, in fine powdered sugar. 

—Pursell't Bakery, New Tork Oity. 

CRULLERS OR WONDERS. 

Three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of melted lard or l)utter, three tableapooB* 

fuls of sugar, mix very hard with sifted flour, as hard as can be rolled, and t» 

be K>lled very thin like pie-crust; qut in squares three inches long and two wide, 

then cut several slits or lines leagtbvnse, te wftfain a quarter of an meh of the 



CAKMS. aSj 

edges of the ends; run your two forefingers through every other slit; lay them 
down on the board edgewise, and dent them. _ These are very dainty when fried. 
Pry in hot lard a light brown. 

GERMAN DOUGHNUTS. 
One pint of milk, four eggs, one small tablespoonful of melted butter, flavor- 
ing, salt to taste; first boQ the milk and pour it, while hot, over a pint of flour; 
beat it very smooth, and when it is cool, have ready the yolks of the eggs well- 
beaten; add them to the milk and flour, beaten well into it, then add the 
well-beaten whites, then lastly add the salt and as much more flour as will make 
the whole into d. soft dough; flour your board, turn your idough upon it, roll it 
in pieces as thick as your finger and turn them in the form of a ring; cook inl 
plenty of boiling lard. A nice breakfast cake with coffee. 

NUT CAKES (Fried.) 
Beat two eggs well, add to them one ounce of sifted sugar, two ounces of 
warmed butter, two tablespoonf uLs of yeast, a teacupful of luke-warm milk and 
a little salt. Whip all well together, then stir in by degrees one pound of flour, 
and, if requisite, more milk, making thin dough. Beat it until it falls from 
the spoon, then set it to rise. When it has risen, make butter or lard hot in a 
frying-pan; cut from the light dough little pieces the size of a walnut, and with- 
out molding or kneading, f i-y them pale brown. As they are done, lay them 
on a napkin to absorb any of the fat. 

TRIFLES, 
Work one egg and a tablespoonful of sugar to as much flotir as will make a 
stiff p£^te; roll it as thin as a dollar piece, and cut it into small round or square 
cakes; drop two or three at a time into the boiling lard; when they rise to the 
surface and turn over they are done; take them out Avith a skimmer and lay 
them on an inverted sieve to drain. When served for dessert or supper, put a 
spoonful of jelly on each. 

PUFF-BALL DOUGHNUTS. 

These doughnuts, eaten fresh and warm, are a delicious breakfast dish, and 
are quickly made. Tliree eggs, one cupful of sugar, a pint of sweet milk, salt, ^. 
nutmeg, and flour enough to permit the spoon to stand upright in the mixture; .] 
add two heaping teaspoonfuls of baldng-powder to the flour; beat all until .very 
hght. Drop by the dessertspoonful into boiling lard.. These will not absorb a 
bit of fat, and are not at all rich, and consequently are the least injurious of this 
kind6f caketv ^9 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

Use the very best materials in making pastiy ; the shortening should be fresh, 
sweet, and hard; the water cold (ice water is best), the paste rolled on a cold 
board, and all handled as httle as possible. 

When the crust is made, it makes it much more flakey and pufiE much more 
to put it in a dish covered with a cloth, and set in a very cold place for half an 
hour, or even an hour; in summer, it could be placed in the ice box, 

A great improvement is made in pie-crust by the addition of about a heaping 
teaspoonftd of baking-powder to a quart of flour, also brushing the paste as often 
as rolled out, and the pieces of butter placed thereon, with the white of an egg, 
assists it to rise in leaves or flakes. As this is the great beauty of puff-paste, it 
is as well to try this method. 

If currants are to be used in pies, they should be carefully picked over, and 
washed in several waters, dried in a towel, and dredged with flour before they 
are suitable for use. 

Raisins, and all dried fruits for pies and cakes, should be seeded, stoned, and 
dredged with flour, before using. 

Almonds should be blanched by pouring boiling water upon them, and then 
slipping the skin off with the fingers. In pounding thern, always add a little 
rose or orange water, with fine sugar, to prevent their becoming oily. 

Great care is requisite in heating an oven for baking pastry. If you can 
hold your hand in the heated oven while you count twenty, the oven has just 
the proper temperature, and it should be kept at this temperature as long as the 
pastry is in; this heat will bake to a light brown, and will give the pastry a 
fresh and flakey appearance. If you suffer the heat to abate, the under cru^ 
will become heavy and clammy, and the apper crust will fall in. 



PASTRV P/ES AND TAJITS. 285 

Another good way to ascertain when the oven is heated to the proper degree 
for pufFpaste: put a small piece of the paste in previous to baking the whole, 
and then the hea;t can thus be judged of. 

Pie-crust can be kept a week, and the last be better than the first, if put in a 
tightly covered dish, and set in the ice-chest in summer, and in a cool place in 
winter, and thus you can make a fresh pie every day with little trouble. 

In baking custard, pumpkin or squash pies, it is well, in order that the mix- 
ture may not be absorbed by the paste, to first partly bake the paste before add- 
ing it, and when stewed fruit is used the filling should be perfectly cool when 
put in, or it will make the bottom crust sodden. 

HOW TO MAKE A PIE. 

After making the crust, take a portion of it, roll it out and fit it to a buttered 
pio-plate by cutting it off evenly around the edge; gather up the scraps left from 
cutting and make into another sheet for the top crust; roll it a little thinner than 
the under crust; lap one half over the other and cut three or four slits about a 
quarter of an inch from the folded edge, (this prevents the steam from escaping 
through the rim of the pie, and caiising the juices to run out from the edges). 
Kow fill your pie-plate vrith yoiur prepared filling, wet the top edge of the rim, 
lay the upper crust across the centre of the pie, turn back the half that is lapped 
over, seal the two edges together by slightly pressing down with your thumb, ) 
then notch evenly and regularly with a three-tined fork, dipping occasionally in 
flour to prevent sticking. Bake in a rather quick oven a light brown, and until 1 
the filling boiLs up through the slits in the upper crust. 

To prevent the juice soaking through into the crust, making it soggy, wet[ 
the imder crust with the white of an egg, just before you put in the pie mixture. \ 
If the top of the pie is brushed over with the egg, it gives it a beautiful glaze. 

FOR ICING PASTRY. 

To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for fruit tarts and sweet 
dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg on a plate, and with the blade of a 
knife beat it to a stiff froth. When the pastry is nearly baked, brush it over 
with this, and sift over some povmded sugar; put it back into the oven to set the 
glaze, and in a few minutes it vdll be done. Great care should be taken that 
the paste does not catch or bum in the oven, which it is very liable to do after 
the icing is laid on. 

Or make a meringue by adding a tablespoonf ul of white sugar to the beaten 
white of one egg. Spread over the top, and slightly brown in the oven. 



•» t^ASTXTf^/ES A^rZf TAJiTS. 

FINE PUFF-PASTE. 

Into one quart of sifted flour, mix two leaspoouf uls of baking-powder, and 
a teaspooiiful of salt; then sift again. Meaiuie out one teacupful of butter 
and one of laid, hiard and cold. Take the' lard and rub into the flour until a very 
fine, smooth paste. Then put in just enough ice- water, say half a cupful, con- 
taining a beaten white of egg, to mix a very stiff dough. Roll it out into a 
thin sheet, spread with one-fouilh o£ the butter, sprinkle over with a little flour, 
then roll up closely in a long roll, like a scroll, double the ends towards the 
centre, flatten and reroll, then spread again with another quarter of the butter. 
Repeat this operation until the butter is used up. Put it on an earthen dish, 
cover it with a cloth and set it in a cold place, in the ice-box in summer; let it 
remain until cotd; an hour or more before making out the cmst. Tarts made 
with this paste caonot be cut with a knife when fresh; they go into flakes at the 
touch. 

Tou may roll this paatiy in any direction, from you, towards you, sideways, 
anjrway, it matters not, but you must have nice flourr ice-water, and very KtOe 
of it, and strength to roll it, if you would succeed. 

This recipe I pUrchaeed from a colored cook on one of the Lake Michigan 
steamers many years ago, and it is, without exception, the finest puff-paste I 
have ever seen. 

PUFF-PASTE FOR PIES. 

One quart of pastry flour, one pint of butter, on^ tablespoonful^of salt, one 
of sugar, one and a qum-ter cupf uls of ice-water. Wash the hands vrith soap 
and water, and dip them fii'st in very hot, and then in cold water. Binse a large 
bowl or pan with boiling water, and then with cold. Half fill it with cold water. 
Wash the butter in this, working it with the liands until it. is light and waxy. 
Tim frees it from the salt and buttermilk, and lightens it, so that the pastry is 
more d^icate. Slmpe the butter into two thin cakes,, and put in a pan of ice- 
water to bardea. Mix the salt and sugar with the flour. With the hands, rub 
one-fHrd of the butter into the flour. Add the water, stirring with a knife. 
Stir quickly and vigorously, until the paste is a eonooth balL Sprinkle the board 
lightly with flour. Turn the paste on. this and. pound quickly and lightly with 
the rdling-pin. Do not break the paste. JEtoU i^rom yon, and to one side; or, if 
ea^er to roll from you all the time, turn tiie paste around. When it is about 
one-Sottrf^ of an mch thick, wi|^>e the remaining butter, break it ia Mte, waA 
qmead tbeee on the paste. Spiinkle lightly with Sour. Fold the pas^ ot»> 
tbfrd Cram each side, so that the edges meet. Now tM from the ends, but ds 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS, a87 

aot have these meet. Double the paste, pound lightly, and roll down to about 
one-third of an inch in thickness. Fold as before, and roU down again. Bepeat 
this three times, if for ^nes, and six times if for vol-au-v&nts, patties, tarts, etc. 
Place on the ice, to harden, when it has been rolled the last time. It should be 
in the ice-chest at least an hour before being used. In hot weather, if the paste 
sticks when being rolled down, put it on a tin sheet, ^nd place on ice. As soon 
as' it is chilled, it will roll easily. The less flour you use in rolling out the paste, 
the tenderer it will be. No matter how carefully every part of the work may 
be done, the paste will not be good if much flour is used. 

—Maria Parloa. 

SOYER'S RECIPE FOR PUFF-PASTE. 

To every pound of flour allow the yolk of one egg, the juice of one lemon, 
half a saltspoonful of salt, cold, water, one poimd of fresh butter. 

Put the flour on to the paste-board; make a hole in the centre, into which 
put the yolk of the egg, the lemon- juice, and salt; mix the whole with cold 
water (this should be iced in summer, if convenient) into a soft, flexible paste 
with the right hand, and handle it as little as possible; then squeeze all the 
buttermilk from the butter, wring it in a cloth, and roll out the paste; place the 
butter on this, and fold the edges of the paste over, so as to hide it; roll it out 
again to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; fold over one-third, over which 
again pass the rolling-pin; then fold over the other third, thus forming a 
square; place it with the ends, top, and bottom before you, shaking a Uttle flour 
both under and over, and repeat the rolls and turns twice again, as before. 
Flour a baking sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain on ice or in some 
cool place for half an hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before; place it 
again upon the ice for a quarter of an hour, give it two more roUs, making seven 
in all, and it is ready for use when required. 

RULE FOR UNDER CRUST. 

A good rule for pie-crust for a pie requiring only an imder crust, — as a custard 
or pumpkin pie, — is: Three large tablespoonfuls of flour sifted; rubbing into it a 
large tablespoonful of cold butter, or part butter and part lard, and a pinch of 
salt,, mixing with cold water enough to form a smooth, stiff paste, and roUed 
quite thin. 

PLAIN PIE-CRUST. 

Two and a half cnpfuls of sifted flour, one cupful of shortening, half butter 
and half lard, cold; a pinch of salt, a heaping teaspoonfnl of batdng-powder, 



288 PASTRY, PIES AND TAHTS. 

Bifted through the flour. Rub thoroughl}' *,he shortening into the flour. Mix 
together with half a teacupful of cold water, or enough to form a rather stiflf 
dough; mix as little as possible, just enough to get it into shape to roll out; it 
must be handled very lightly. This rule is for two pies. 

When you have a little pie-crust left, do not throw it away; roll it thin, cut 
it in small squares and bake. Just before tea, put a spoonful of raspberry jelly 
on each square. 

PUFF-PASTE OF SUET. 

Two cupfuls of flour, one-half tesispoonful of salt, pne teaspoonful of baking- 
powder, one cup of chopped suet, freed of skin, and chopped very fine, one cup- 
ful of water. Place the flour, sifted with the powder, in a bowl, add suet and 
water; mix into smooth, rather firm dough. 

This paste is excellent for fruit puddings, and dumplings that are boiled; if it 
is well made, it will be light and flaky, and the suet imperceptible. It is also 
excellent for meat pies, baked or boiled. All the ingredients should be very cold 
when mixing, and the suet dredged with flotu- after it is chopped, to prevent the 
particles from adhering to each other. 

POTATO CRUST. 

Boil and mash a dozen medium-sized potatoes, add one good teaspoonful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of cold butter, and half a cupful of milk or cream. 
Stiffen with flour sufiicient to roll out. Nice for the tops of meat pies. 

TO MAKE PIE-CRUST FLAKY 

In making a pie, after you have rolled out your top crust, cut it about the 
right size, spread it over with butter, then shake sifted flour over the butter, 
enough to cover it vijelL Cut a slit in the middle, place it over the top of your 
pie, and fasten the edges as any pie. Now take the pie on your left hand, and a 
dipper of cold water in your right hand; tip the pie slanting a little, pour over 
the water sufiBciently to rinse off the flour. Enough flour will stick to the 
butter to fry into the crust, to give it a fine, blistered, flaky look, ■which many 
cooks think is tnuch better than rolling the butter into the crust. 

TARTLETS. 

Tarts of strawberry or any other kind of preserves are generally made of the 

trimmings of puff -paste rolled a little thicker than for ordinary pie^ then cut 

out with a round cutter, first dipped In hot water, to make the edges smooth, 

and placed in small tart-pans, first pricking a few boles at the bottom with a 



J'ASTXY, PIBS AND TARTS. ^89 

fork before placdog them iu the oven. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Let 
the paste cool a little; then fill it with preserve. By this manner, both the 
flavor and color of the jam are preserved, which would be lost were it baked in 
the oven on the paste; and, besides, so much jam is not required 

PATTIES, OR SHELLS FOR TARTS 
Roll out a nice puff -paste thin; cut out with a glass or cookey-cutter, and with' 
a wine-glass or smaller cutter, cut out the centre of two out of three; Jay the 
rings thus made on the third, and bake at once. May be used for veal or oyster 
patties, or filled with jelly, jam or preserves, as tarts. Or shells may be made 
by lining patty -pans with paste. K the paste is light, the shells will be fine. 
Filled with jelly and covered with meiiague (tablespoonful of sugar to the white 
of one egg)) and browned in oven, they are very nice to serve for tea. 

If the cutters are dipped in hot water, the edges of the tartlets will rise much 
higher and smoother when baking. 

TARTLETS. 

Tartlets are nice made in this manner: EoU some good puff-paste out thin, 
and ont it into two and a half inch squares; brush each square over with the 
white of an egg, then fold down the comers, so that they all meet in the middle 
of each piece of pciste; sUghtly press the two pieces together, brush them over 
with the egg, sift over sugar, and bake in a nice quick oven for about a quarter 
of an hoiu". When they are done, make a little hole in the middle of the paste, 
and fiU it up with apricot jam, marmalade, or red-ciurant jelly, Pile them high 
in the centre of a dish, on a nankin, and garnish with the same preserve the 
tartlets are filled -with. 

TARTS. 

Larger pans are required for tarts proper, the size of small, shallow pie-tins; ' 
then after the paste is baked and cooled and filled with the jam or preserve, a 
few stars or leaves are placed on the top, or strips of paste, criss-crossed on the 
top, all of which have been previously baked on a tin by themselves. 

Dried fruit, stewed until thick, makes fine tart pies, also cranberries, etewed 
and well sweetened. 

GREEN APPLE PIE. 

Peel, core and slice tart apples enough for a pie; sprinkle over about three 
tsiblespoonf uls of sugar, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a small level tablespoonful 
of sifted flour, two table^Mxmfuls (^ water, » few bita of butter; stir all togdlier 



a^ PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS. 

with a spoon; put it into a pie-tin lined with pie-paste: cover with a top cruflt 
and bake about forty minutes. 

The result will be a delicious, juicy pie. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. _^ No. I. 

Three cupfuls of milk, four egg's, and one cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of 
thick stewed apples, strained through a colander. , Beat the whites and yolks of 
the eggs lightly, and mix the yolks well with the apples, flavoring with nutmeg. 
Then beat into this the milk, and lastly the whites. Let the crust partly bake 
before turning in this filfing. Tol)e baked with only* the one crust, like aU 
custard pies. 

APPLE.CUSTARD PIE. No. 2. 

Select fair sweet apples, pare and grate them, and to every teacupful of the 
apple add two eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, one of_ melted 
butterj the grated rind and half the juice of one lemon, half a wine-glass of 
brandy, and one teacupful of milk; mix all well, and pour into a deep plate 
lined with paste; put a strip of the paste around the edge of the dish and 
bake thirty minutes. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. N6.*^ 

Lay a crust in your plates; sUce apples thin, and half fill your plates; pour 
over them a custard made of four eggs and one quart of milk, sweetened andjea- 
eoned to your taste. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. No. 4. 

Peel sour apples and stew until soft, and not much. water left in them; then 
rub through a colander; beat three eggs for each pie to be baked, and put in at 
the rate of one cupful of butter and one of sugar for three pies; season with 
nutmeg. 

IRISH APPLE PIE. 

Pare and take out the cores of the apples, cutting each apple into four or 
eight pieces, according to' their size. Lay them neatly in a baking dish, season- 
ing them with brown sugar, and any spice, such as pounded cloves and cinna- 
mon, or grated lemon-peel. A little quince marmalade gives a fine flavor to the 
pie. Add a little water, and cover with puff -paste. Bake for an hour. 

MOCK APPLE PIE 

Crush finely, with a rolling-pin, one large Boston cracker; put it into a bowl, 
and pour upon it one teacupful of cold water; add one teacupful of fine white 



FASTRY^. PIES AND.. TARTS. i<fl 

sngar, the juice and pulp of one lemon, half a lemon-rind grated, and a little 
nutmeg; line the pie-plate with half puff -paste, pour in the mixture, cover with 
the paste, and bake half an hour. 
These are proportions for one pie. 

APPLE AND PEACH MERINGUE PIE. 

Stew the apples or peaches and sweeten to taste. Mash smootn and season 
with nutmeg. Fill the crusts and bake until just done. Put on no top crust. 
Take the whites of three eggs for each pie, and whip to a stLfif froth, and sweeten. 
with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Flavor with rose-water or vanilla; 
beat until it will stand alone; then spread it on the pie one-half to one inch thick; 
set it back into 'the oven vmtil the meringue is well "set." Eat cold. 

COCOANUT PIE. No. i. 

One-half cup dessicated cocoanut, soaked in one cupful of milk, two eggs, 
one small cupful of sugar, butter the size of an egg. This is for one small-sized 
pie. Nice with a meringue on top. 

COCOANUT PIE. No. 2. 
Cut off the brown part of the cocoanut, grate the white part, mix it with 
milk, and set it on the fire and let it boil slowly eight or ten minutes. To a 
pound of the grated, cocoa nut, allo w a quart of milk, eight egg s, foiu Hiable- 
spoonfuls or ameS white sugar, a glass of wine, a small cracker, pounfle^ 
fine, two spoonfuls of melted butter, and half a nutmeg. The eggs and 
sugar should be beaten together to a froth, then the wine stirred in. Put 
them into the milk and cocoanut, which should be first allowed to get quite 
cool; add the cracker and nutmeg, turn the whole into deep pie-plates, with 
a lining and rim of puff-paste. Bake them as soon as turned into the plates. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD Plfi. TMo. X. 

One quarter. cake of Baker's chocolate, grated; one pint of boiling water, six 
eggs, one quart of nulk, one-half cupful of white sugar, two teaspoonfuls of 
vaniUa, Dissolve the chocolate in a very little nulk, stir into the boiling water, 
and boH three minutes. When nearly cold, beat up with this the yolks of aU 
the eggs and the whites of three. Stir this mixt'u:e mto the milk, season and 
pour into shells of good paste. When the custard if* " set "—but not more than 
half done— spread over it the whites whipped to a froth, with two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. You may bake these custards without paste, in a pudding-dish o» 
cups set in boiUng water, 



a98 FASriCY. PIES AND TARTS. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. No. a. 

Put some grated chocolate into a basin and place on the back of the stove and 
let it melt (do not add any water to it); beat one egg and some sugar in it; when 
melted, spread this on the top of a custard pie. Lovers of chocolate will like this. 

LEMON PIE. (Superior.) 

Take a deep dish, grate into it the outside of the rird of two lemons; add to 

that a cup and a half of white sugar, two heaping tablespoonfuls of unsifted 

flour, or one of corn-starch:, stir it well together, then add the yolks of three 

well-beaten eggs, beat this thoroughly, then add the juice of the lemons, two cups 

of water, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Set this on the fire in 

another dish containing boiling water and cook it until it thickens, and wiU dip 

up on the spoon like cold honey. Remove it from the fire, and when cooled, 

pour it into a deep pie-tin, lined* with pastry; bake, and when done, have ready 

the whites, beatea stiff, with three small tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread this 

over the top and return to the oven to set and brown slightly. This makes a 

deep, large-sized pie, and very superior. 

—Bbbitl Oousi, Washington. 

LEMON PIE. .No. 2. 

One coffee-cupful of sugar, three eggs, one cupful of water, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, the juice and a little of 
the rind of one lemoa Reserve the whites of the eggs, and after the pie is 
baked, spread them over the top, beaten lightly, with a spoonful of sugar, and 
return to the oven until it is a light brown. 

This may be cooked before it is put into the cnist or not, but is rather better 
to cook it first in a dcrable boiler or dish. It makes a medium-sized pie. Bake 
from thirty-five to forty minutes. 

LEMON PIE. No. 3- 
Moisten a heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch vrith a little cold water, then 
add a cupful of boiling water; stir over the fire till it boils and cook the corn- 
starch, say two or three minutes; add a teaspoonful of butter, and a cupful of 
sugar; take off the fire, and when slightly cooled, add an egg well beaten, and 
the juice and grated rind of a fresh letn'on. Bake with a crust. This makes one 
small pie. 

LEMON PIE. No. 4- 
Two large, fresh lemons, grate off the rind, if not bitter reserve it for the 
filling of the pie; pare off every bit of the white skin of the lemon, (as it toughens 



PASTHY, P/ES AND TARTS. 293 

while cooking); then cut the lemon into very thin shoes with a sharp knife, and 
take out the seeds; two cupfuls of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of water, and two 
of sifted flour. Put into the pie a layer of lemon, then one of sugar, then one 
of the grated rind, and, lastly, of flovu-, and so on till the ingredients are used; 
sprinkle the water over all, and cover with up^er o»ust. Be sure to have the 
under crust lap over the upper, and pinch it well, as the syrup will cook all out 
if care is not taken when finishing the edge of crust. This quantity makes one 
medium-sized pie. 

ORANGE PI^. 
. Orate the rind of one and use the juice of two large oranges. Stir together a 
large cupful of sugar and a heaping tablespoonful of flour; add to this the well-, 
beaten yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Eeserve the 
whites for frosting. Turn this into a pie-pan lined with pie-paste, and bake in a' 
quick oven, When done so as to resemble a finely baked custard, spread on the 
top of it the beaten whites, which must be sweetened with two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; spread evenly, and return to the oven and brown slightly. 

The addition of the juice of half a lemon improves it, if (Convenient to have it. 

BAKERS* CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat up the yolks of three eggs to a cream. Stir thoroughly a tablespoonful 
of sifted flour into three tablespoonfuls of sugar; this separates the particles of 
floiu" so that there will be no lumps; then add it to the beaten yolks, put in a 
pinch of salt, a teaspoooful of vanilla, and a Uttle ^ated nutmeg; next the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs; and lastly, a pint of scalded milk (not -boiled) 
which has been cooled; mix this m by degrees, and turn all into a deep pie- pan, 
lined with puff paste, and bake from twenty- five to thirty minutes. 

I received this recipe from a celebrated cook in one of our best New York 
bakeries. I inquijed of him " why it was that their custard pies had that look 
of sohdity and smoothness that our home-made pies have not, " He replied, 
" The secret is the addition of this bit of flour— not that it thickens the custard 
any to speak of, but prevents the custard from breaking or wheying, and gives 
that smooth appearance when cut." 

CREAM PIE. 
Pour a pint of cream upon one and a' half cupfuls of sugar; let it stand until 
the whites of three eggs have been beaten to a stiff froth; add this to the cream, 
and beat up thoroughly; grate a little nutmeg over the mixture, and bake with- 
out an upper crust. If a tablespoonful of sifted flour is added to it, as the above 
Custard Pie recipe, it would improve i) 



^94 PASTRY, PIES AND TA&TS. 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE, 

line a pie-plate Avith a ^rich. crust, and bake quickly in a hot oven, Wh6n 
done, spread with a thin layer of jelly or jam, then whip one cupful of thick 
sweet cream until it is. as light as possible; sweeten with powdered sugar and 
flavor with vanilla; spread over the jelly or jam; set the cream where it will get 
very cold before whipping. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat together until very light the yolks of four eggs and four tablespoonfids 
of sugar, flavor with nutmeg or vanilla; then add the four beaten whites, a pinch 
of salt and, lastly, a quart of sweet mUk; mix well and pour into tins lined with 
paste. Bake until Arm. 

BOSTON CREAM PIE. 

Cream •part. — Put on a pint of milk to boil. Break two eggs into a dish, and 
add one cup of sugar and half a cup of flour previously mixed; after beating 
well, stu' it into the milk just as the milk commences to boil; add an ovmce of 
butter and keep on stirring one way until it thickens; flavor with vanilla or 
lemon 

Crvst part. — Three eggs, beaten separately, one cup of granulated sugar, one 
and a half cups of sifted flour, one large teaspoonful of baking-powder, and two 
tablespoonj/uls of milk or water. Divide the batter in half and bake on two 
medium-sized pie-tins. Bake in a rather quick oven to a straw color. When 
done and cool, split each one in half with a sharp broad-bladed knife, and spread 
half the cream between each. Serve cold. 

The cake part should be flavored the same as the custard. 

MOCK CREAM PIE. 
Take three eggs, one pint of milk, a cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch, or three of flour; beat the sugar, com-starch, and yolks of the eggs 
together; after the milk has come to a boO, stir in the mixture^ and add a pinch 
of salt and about a teaspoonful of butter. Make crust the same as any pie; 
bake, then fill with the custard, grate over a little nutmeg and bake again. 
Take the whites of the eggs and beat to a stifE froth with two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, spread over the top and brown in f quick oven. 

FRUIT CUSTARD PIE. 

Any fruit custard, such as pineapple, banana, can be readily made after the 
lecipe of "Apple Custard Pie." 



PASTRY^ PJhS AND TARTS. 295 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line your pie-plate with good crust, fill half full with ripo cherries; sprinkle 
over them abo,ut a cupful of sugar, a teaspoonful of sifted flour, dot a few bits 
of butter over that. Now fill the crust full to the top. Cover with the upper 
crust, and bake. 

This is one of the best of pies, if made correctly, and the cherries in any case 
should be stoned. 

CURRANT PIE. No. i. 

Make in just the same way as thi Cherry I*ie, unless they are somewhat 
green, then they should be stewed a little 

RIPE CURRANT PIE. No. 2. 
One cupful of mashed ripe currants, one of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
water, one of flour, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Bake; frost the top 
with the beaten whites of the eggs and two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, and 
brown in oven. 

GREEN TOMATO PIE. 

Take medium-sized tomatoes, pate, and cut out the stem end. Having youE 
pie-pan lined ^^»^tll paste made as biscuit dough, slice the tomatoes very thin, 
filling the pan somewhat heaping, then grate over it a nutmeg, put in half a cup 
of butter, and a medium cup of sugar, if the pan is rather deep. Sprinkle a 
small handful of flour over all, pouring in half a cup of vinegar before adding 
the top crust. Bake half an hour, in a moderately hot oven, serving hot. Is 
good; try it. 

APRICOT MERINGUE PIE. 

A canned apricot meringue pie is made by cutting the apricots fine and mix. 
ing them with a half cup of sugar and the beaten yolk of an egg; fill the crust 
and bake. Take from the oven, let it stand for two or three minutes, cover 
with a meringue made of the beaten white of an egg and one tablespoonful of 
sugar. Set back in a slow oven untU it turns a golden brown. The above pie 
can be made into a tart without the addition of the meringue by adding criss- 
cross strips of pastry when the pre is first put into the oven, 

AH of the above are good if made from the dried and stewed apricots instead 
of the canned, and are much cheaper. 

Stewed dried apricots are a delicious addition to mince-meat. They may be 
use in connection with minced apples, or to the exclusion of the latter. 



196 PASTRY, J'JSS AND TAKTS. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Put a quart of picked huckleberries into a basin of water; take off whatere 
tloats; take up the berries by the handful, pick out all the stems and unrip«. 
berries, and put them into a dish; line a buttered pie-dish with a pie-paste, put in 
the berries half an inch deep, and to a quart of berries, put half of a teacupf ul of 
brown sugar; dredge a teaspoonful of flour over, strew a saltspoonful of salt, and 
a Uttle nutmeg grated over; cover the pie, cut a slit in the centre, or make severaJ 
small incisions on either side of it; press the two crusts together around the edge, 
trim it off neatly with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven for thre-equarters 
of an hour. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 
Pick the berries clean, rinse them in cold water, and finish as directed for 
huckleberries. 

MOLASSES PIE. 
Two teacupfuls of molasses, one of sugar, three eggs, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, one lemon, nutmeg; beat and bake in pastry. 

LEMON RAISIN PIE. 

One cup of chopped raisins, seeded, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, 
one cupful of cold water, one tablespoonful of floiu*, one cupful of sugar, two 
tablespoonf uls of butter. Stir lightly together and bake with upper and under 
crust. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Cut the large stalks off where the leaves commence, strip off the outdde 
skin, then cut the stalks in pieces half an inch long; Une a pie-dish with paste 
rolled rather thicker than a dollar piece, put a layer of the rhubarb nearly an inch 
deep; to a quart bowl of cut rhubarb put a large teacupful of sugar; strew it over 
with a saltspoonful of salt and a little nutmeg grated^ shake over a little ffour; 
cover with a rich pie-crust, cut a sUt in the centre, trim off the edge with a sharp 
knife, and bake in a quick oven until the pie loosen? from the dish. Bhubarb 
pies made in this way are altogether superior to those made of the fruit stewed. 

RHUBARB PIE, COOKED. 

Skin the stalks, cut them into small pieces, wash, and put them in a stew-pan 
with no more water than.what adheres to them; when cooked, mash them fine, 
and put in a small piece of butter; wh^ cool, sweeten to taste; if liked add a 
little lemor-^^I, cinnamon or nutmeg; line your plate wiili thin crust, put in 



J>ASTJiy, PIES AND TAXTS. 297 

the filb't^, cover \rith «ru6t, and bake in a qaicle oven; tdft sugar over it when 
served. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

A grated pineapple; its weight in sugar; half its weight in batter; one cupful 
of cream; five eggs; beat the butter to a creamy froth; add the sugar and yolks 
of the eggs; continue beating till very light; add the cream, fbe pineapple grated, 
and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake with an under crust. 
Eat cold. 

GRAPE PIE. 

Pop the pulps out of the ^dns iiito one dish, and put the skins into another. 
Then simmer the pulp a httle over the fire to soften it; remove it and rub it 
through a colander to separate it from the sedSls. Then put the skins and pulp 
together, and they are ready for pies or for canning or putting in jugs for 
fiu^er use. Fine for pies. 

DAMSON OR PLUM PIE- 
Stew the damsons whole in water only suiScient to prevent their burning; 
when tender, and while hot, sweeten them with sugar, and let them stand until 
they become cold; then pour them into pie-dishes lined with paste, dredge flour 
upon them, cover them with the same paste, wet and pinch together the edges 
of the paste, cut a slit in the centre of the cover through which the vapor may 
escape, and bake twenty minutes. 

PEACH PIE. 
Feel, stone, and sUce the peaches. Line a pie-plate with crust, and lay in 
your fruit, sprinkling sugar liberally over them in proportion to their sweetness. 
Allow three peach kernels, chopped fine, to each pie; pour in a very Uttle water, 
and bake with an upper crust, or with cross-bars of paste across the top. 

DRIED FRUIT PIES. 
Wash the fruit thoroughly, soak over night in water enough to cover. In 
the morning, stew slowly, imtil nearly done, in the same water. Sweeten to 
taste. The crust, both upper and under, should be rolled thin; a thick crust to 
a fruit pie is undesirable. 

RIPE BERRY PIES. 
All made the same as Cherry Pie. Line your pie-tin with crust, fill half 
full of berries, shake over a tablespoonful of sifted flour, (if very juicy), and aa 



298 fASTSY, JflES AMD TAKTS. 

much sugar as is necessaiyto sweeten suffidently. Now fill up the crust -to the 
top, making quite full. Cover with crust, and bake about forty minutes. 

Hucklebeny and blackberry pies are improved by putting into them a little 
ginger and cinnamon. 

JELLY AND PRESERVED FRUIT PIES. 
Preserved fruit requires no baking; hence, always bake the shell, and put in 
the sweetmeats afterwards; you can cover with whipped cream, or bake a top 
crust shell; the former is preferable for delicacy. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Take fine, sound, ripe cranberries, and with a sharp knife split each one 

onto you have a heaping coffee-cupful; put them in a vegetable dish or basin; 

put over them one cup of white sugar, half a cup of water, a tablespoon /uU of 

sifted flour; stir it all together and put into your crust. Cover with an upper 

crust and bake slowly in a moderate oven. You wiD find this the true way (A 

making a cranberry pia 

—Nnaport ttyU. 

CRANBERRY TART PIE. 

After having washed and picked over the berries, stew them well in a little 
water, just enough to cover them; when they buurst open, and become soft, 
sweeten them with plenty of sugar, mash them smooth (some prefer them not 
mashed); line your pie-plates with thin puff paste, fill them, and lay strips of 
paste across the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Or you may rub them through 
a colander to free them from the skins. 

GOOSEBERRY PIE. 
Can be made the same as Cranberry Tart Pie, or an upper CFUst can be 
put on before baking. Serve with boiled custard, or a pitcher of gpod,(Bweei 
cream. 

STEWED PUMPKIN OR SQU>VSH FOR PIES. 
Deep-colored pumpkins are generally the best. Cut a piunpkin or squash in ' 
half, take out the seeds, then cut it up in thick slices, pare the outside and cut 
again in small pieces. Put it into a large pot or sauce-pan, with a very little 
water; let it cook slowly xmtil tender. Now set the pot on the back of the stove, 
where it will not bum, and cook slowly, stirring often imtfl the moisture is 
dried out and the pumpkin looks dark and red. It requires cooking a long time, 
at least half a day, to have it dry and rich. When cooU press throu^ a colander. 



PASTXY, PIES AND TARTS. 299 

BAKED PUMPKIN OR SQUASH FOR PIES. 

Cut up in several pieces, do not pare it; place them on baking- tins and set 
them in the oven; bake slowly until soft, then take them out, scrape all the 
pumpkin from the shell, rub it through a colander. It will be fine and light 
and free from lumps. 

PUMPKIN PIE. No. X. 

For thiee pies: One quart of milk, three cupfuls of bofled and strained 
pumpkin, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of molasses, the 
yolks and whites of four eggs beaten separately, a httle salt, one tablespoonf ul 
each of ginger and cinnamon. Beat all together and bake with an under cnist. 

Boston marrow or Hubbard squash may be substituted for pumpkin, and are 
much preferred by many, as possessing a less strong flavor. 

PUMPKIN PIE. No. 2. 

One quart of stewed pumpkin, pressed through a sieve; nine eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately; .two scant quarts of miUc, one teaspoonful of mace, 
one teaspooiiul of cinnamon, and the same of nutmeg; one and one-half cupfuls 
of white sugar, or very light brown. Beat all well together, and bake in crust 
■without cover. 
A tablespounful of brandy is a great improvement to pumpkin or squash pies. 

PUMPKIN PIE, WITHOUT EGGS. 

One quart of properly stewed pumpkin, pressed through a cplander; to this 
add enough good, rich milk, sufficient to moisten it enough to fill two good-sized 
earthen pie-plates, a teaspoonful of salt, half a cupful of molasses, or brown 
•agar, a tablespoonf ul of ginger, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, or nutmeg. Bake 
in a moderately slow oven three-quarters of an hour. 

SQUASH PIE. 
One pint of boiled dry squash, one aipful of brown sugar, three eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one tablespoonful 
of ginger, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, a pinch of salt, and one pint of milk. 
This makes two pies, or one large deep one. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
One pound of steamed swe.et potatoes finely mashed, two cups sugar, one cup 
cream, one-half cup butter, three well-beaten eggs, flavor with lemon or nutmeg 
%sA bake in pastiy shell Fina, 



300 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS. 

COOKED MEAT FOR MINCE PIES. 

Iq order to succeed in having good mince pie, it is quite essential to coSk the 
meat properly, so as to retain its juices and strength of flavor. 

Select four pounds of lean beef, the neck piece is as good as any; wash it. 
and put it into a kettle with just water enough to cover it; take ofit thia sciiS' 
as it reaches. the boiling point, add hot water from time io tinae^'until it'is 
tender, then season with salt and pepper; take off the cover and let it boil until 
almost dry, or until the juice has boiled back into the meat. When it looks ?' 
though it was beginning to fry in its own juice, it is time to take up, and ( 
aside to get cold, which should be done the day before needed. Niext day, when 
making the mince-meat, the bones, gristle and stringy bits should be well picked 
out before chopping. 

MINCE PIES. NoTT. 

The "Astor House," some years ago, was /omoits for its " mince pies." The 
chief pastry cook at that time, by request, published the recipe. I fird that 
those who partake of it never fail to speak in laudable terms «f the superior 
excellence of this recipe, when strictly followed. 

Four pounds of lean boiled beef, chopped fine, twice as much of chopped green 
tart apples, one pound of chopped suet, three pounds of raisins, seeded, two 
pounds of currants picked over, washed and dried, half a pound of citron, cut 
up fine, one pound of brown sugar, one quart of cooking molasses, tw o quarta 
ol sweet cider, one pint of boiled cider, one tablespoonf ul of salt, one tablespoon- 
f ul of pepper, one tablespoonf ul of mace, one tablespoonf ul of allspioe, and four 
tablespoonfuls Of cinnamon, two grated nutmegs, one tablespoonful of cloves; 
mix thoroughly and warm it on the range, until heated through. Remove from 
the fire and when nearly cool, stir in a pint of good brandy, and one pint of 
Madeira wine. Put into a crock, cover it tightly, and set it in a cold place 
where it will not freeze, but keep perfectly cold. Will keep good all winter. 

—Ohqfde Ouiwne, Astor Eoute, N. 7. 

MINCE PIES. No. 2. 

Two pounds of lean fresh beef, boiled, and when cold, chopped fine. One 
pound of beef suet, cleared of strings and minced t(? powder. Five pounds of 
apples, pared and chopped; two pounds of raisins, seeded and chopped; ots 
pound' of Sultana raisins, washed and picked over. Two pounds of curranxs. 
washed and carefully picked over. Three-quarters of a pound of citron cut up 
fine. Two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, one of powdered nutmeg, two of macet 



i'ASTHY, PIES AND TARTS. 30i 

one of cloves, one of allspice, one of fine salt; two and a quarter pounds o£ 
brown sugar, one quart brown sherry, one pint best brandy. 

Mince-meat made by this recipe will keep all winter. Cover closely in a 
jar, and set in a cool place. ' 

— Common Sense in the Houeehold, 

For preserving mince-meat, look for "Canned Mince-Meat." 

MOCK MINCE-MEAT, WITHOUT MEAT. 

One cupful of cold water, half a cupful of molasses, half a cupful of brown 
sugar, half a cupful of cider vinegar, two-thirds of a cupful of melted butter, 
one cupful of raisins, seeded and chopped, one egg beaten light, half a cup- 
ful of rolled cracker-crumbs, a tablespoonf ul of cinnamon, a teaspoonful each 
of cloves, allspice, nutmeg, salt, and black pepper. 

Put the sauce-pan on the fire with the water and raisins; let them cook a 
few minutes, then add the sugar and molasses, then the vinegar, then the other 
ingredients; lastly, add a wine-glassful of brandy. Very fine. 

FRUIT TURNOVER. (Suitable for Picnics.) 

Make a nice puff paste; roll it out the usual thickness, as for pies; then cut 
it out into circular pieces about the size of a small tea saucer; pile the fruit on 
half of the paste, sprinkle over some sugar, wet the edges, and turn the paste 
over. Press the edges together, ornament them, and brush the timaovers over 
with the white of an egg; sprinkle over sifted sugar, and bake on tins, in a brisk 
oven, for about twenty minutes. Instead of putting the fruit in raw, it may be 
boiled down with a little sugar first, and then enclosed in the crust; or jam of 
any kind may be substituted for fresh fruit. 

PLUM CUSTARD TARTLETS. 

One pint of greengage plums, after being rubbed through a sieve; one large 
cup of sugar, the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Whisk all together imtil light 
and foamy; then bake in small patty-pans shells of puff-paste, a light brown. 
Then fill with the plum paste, beat the two whites until stiff; add two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, spread over the plum paste and set the shells into 
a moderate oven for a few moments. 

These are much' more easily handled than pieces of pie or even pies wholes 
and can be packed nicely for carrying. 

LEMON TARTLETS. No. i. 
i'::$t a quart of milk into a sauce-pan <^er the fire. When it comes to the 
dolfing point, put into it the following mixture: Into a bowl put a heaping table- 



3oa PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS. 

spoonful of flour, half a cupful of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Stir this all 
together thoroughly; then add the beaten yolks of six eggs; stir this one way 
into the boiling milk, until cooked to a thick cream; remove from the fire, and 
stir into it the grated rind and juice of one large lemon. Have ready baked and 
hot, some puff -paste tart shells. FLQ them with the custard, and cover each 
with a meringue, made of the whites of the eggs, sweetened with four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Put into the oven and bake a light straw-color. 

LEMON TARTLETS. No. 2. 

Mix well together the juice and grated rind of two lemons, two cupfuls of 
sugar, two eggs, and the crumbs of sponge cake; beat it all together until 
smooth; put. into twelve patty-pans lined with puff-paste and bake until the 
crust is done. 

ORANGE TARTLETS. 

Take the juice of two large oranges, and the grated. peel of one, three-fourtha 
of a cup of sugar, a tablespoonful of butter; stir in a good teaspoonful of corn- 
starch into the juice of half a lemon, and add to the mixture. Beat all well 
together, and bake in tart shells without cover. 

MERINGUE CUSTARD TARTLETS. 

Select deep individual pi6-tins; fluted tartlet pans are suitable for custard 
tarts, but they should be about six inches in diameter and from two to three 
inches deep. Byitter the pan and line it with ordinary puff- paste, then fill it. 
vtrith a custard made as follows: Stir gradually into the beaten yolks of six eggs 
two tablespoonfuls of floiu^, a saltspoonful of salt and half a pint of cream. Stir 
unto free from lumps and add twU tablespoonfuls of sugar; put the sauce-pan on 
the range and stir until the custard coats the spoon. Do not let it boil or it will 
curdle. Pour it in a bowl, add a few drops of vanilla flavoring and stir until the 
custard becomes cold; fill the lined mold with this and bake in a moderate 
oven. In tho meantime, put the white of the eggs in a bright copper vessel and 
beat thoroughly, using a baker's \vire egg-beater for- this purpose, While beat- 
ing, sprinkle in lightly half a pound of sugar and a dash of salt. When the paste 
is quite firm, spread a thin layer of it over the tart and decorate the top with 
the remainder by squeezing: it through a paper funnel. Strew a little powdered 
sugar over the top, retium to the oven, and when a delicate yellow tinge remove 
from thd oven, and when cold, sen'e. 



PASTXY, FIES AND TARTS. 303 

BERRY TARTS. 

Line small pie-tins with pie-crust, and bake. Just before ready to use, fill 
the tarts with strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, or whatever berries are in 
season. Sprinkle over each tart a little su^ar; after adding berries add also to 
each tart a tablespoonful of sweet cream. They form a delicious addition to the 
breakfast table. 

CREAM STRAWBERRY TARTS. 

After picking over the berries carefully, arrange them in layers in a deep pie- 
tin lined with puif -paste, sprinkling sugar thickly between each layer; fill the 
pie-tin pretty full, pouring in a quantity of the juice; cover with a thick crust, 
with a slit in the top, and bake. When the pie is baked, pour into the slit in the 
top of the pie the following cream mixture: Take a small cupful of the cream 
from the top of the morning's milk, heat it until it comes to a boO, then stii* into 
it the whites of two eggs beaten light, also a tablespoonful of white sugar and a 
teaspoonful of com -starch wet in cold mUk. Boil all together a few moments 
until qiiite smooth; set it aside, and when cool,, pour it into the pie through the 
slit in the crust. Serve it cold with powdered sugar sifted over it. 

RaspbeiTy, blackberry, and whortleberry may be made the same. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY TART. 

Top and tail the gooseberries. Put into a porcelain kettle with enough water 

to prevent burning, and stew slowly until they break. Take them off, sweeten 

wdl, and set aside to cooL When cold pour into pastry shells, and bake with a 

top crust of puff-paste. Brush all over with beaten egg while hot, set back in 

the oven to glaze for three minutes. Eat cold. 

— Comrnan Seme in the Household. 

COCOANUT TARTS. 

Take three cocoanuts, the meats grated, the yolks of five eggs, half a cupful 
of white sugar, season, a wine-glass of milk; put the butter in cold, and bake 
in a nice puff-paste. 

CHOCOLATE TARTS 

Four eggf , whites and yolks; one half cake of Baker's chocolate, grated; one 
tablespoonful of corn-starch, dissolved in water; three tablespoonfuls of milk, 
four of white sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, one saltspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of butter, melted; nib the choco- 
late smooth in the milk, and heat to boiling over the fire, then stir in the corn- 
etarcb. Stir five minutes untU well thickened, remove from the fire, and pour 



304 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

into a bowl. Beat all the yolks and the whites of two eggs well with the sugar, 
and when the chocolate mixture is almost cold, put all together with the flavor- 
ing, and stir until light. Bake in open shells of pastry. When done, cover with 
a meringue made of the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonf ula of sugar 
flavored with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Eat cold. 

These are nice for tea, baked in patty-pans. 

— Cbmmott Semt xn the Household. 

MAIDS OF HONOR. 

Take one cupful of sour milk, one of sweet milk, a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, the yolk of four eggs, juice and rind of one lemon, and small cupful of 
white pounded sugar. Put both kinds of milk together in a vessel, which is set 
in another, and let it become sufliciently* heated to set the curd, then strain off 
the milk, rub the curd through a straiaer, add butter to the curd, the sugar, 
well-beaten eggs, and lemon. Line the little pans with the richest of puff- 
paste, and fill with the mixture; bake until firm in the centre, from ten to fifteen 
minutes. 

GERMAN FRUIT PIE. 

Sift together a heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder and a pint of flour; add 
apiece of butter as large as a walnut, a pinch of salt, one beaten egg, and sweet 
milk enough to make a soft dough. Boll it out half an inch thick; butter a 
square biscuit tin, and cover the bottom and sides with the dough; fiU the pan 
with quartered juicy apples, sprinkle with a little cinnamon and molasses. Bake 
in rather quick oven until the crust and apples are cooked a light brown. Sprinkle 
a little sugar over the top five minutes before removing from the oven, 

Bipe peaches are fine, used in the same manner. 

APPLE TARTS. 

Pare, quarter, core and boil in half a cupful of water imtil quite soft, ten 
large, tart apples; beat imtU veiy smooth and add the yolks of six eggs, or three 
whole ones, the juice and grated outside rind of two lemons, half a cup butter, 
one and a half of sugar (or more, if not sufficiently sweet); beat all thoroughly, 
line patty-pans with a puff -paste, and fill; bake five minutes in a hot oven. 

Meringue. — If desired very nice, cover them when removed from the oven 
with a meringue made of the whites of three eggs remaining, mixed with three 
tablespoonfuls sugar; return to the oven and delicately brown. 

CREAM TARTS. 
M^e a rich, brittle crust, with which cover your patty-pans, smoothing off 
the edges nicely, and bake well While these "shells" are cooling, take one 



CUSTAJtDS. CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 305 

teacupful (more or less according to the number of tarts you want) of perfectly 
sweet and fresh cream, skimmed free of milk; put this into a large bowl or other 
deep dish, and with your egg-beater whip it to a thick, stiff froth; add a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of fine, white sugar, with a teaspoonful (a small one) of lemon 
or vanilla. Fill the cold shells with this and setln a cool place till tea is ready. 

OPEN JAM TARTS. 
Time to bake until pastd loosens from the dish. Line shallow tin dish with 
pufE-paste, put in the jam roll out some of the paste, wet it lightly with the 
yolk of an egg beaten w^th a little milk, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 
Cut it in very narrow strips, then lay them across the tart, lay another strip 
around the edge, trim off outside, and bake in a quick oven. 

CHESS CAKES. 
Peel and grate one cocoanut, boil one pound of sugar fifteen minutes in two- 
thirds of a pint of water; stir in the grated cocoanut and boil fifteen minutes 
longer. While warm, stir in a quarter of a pound of butter; add the yolks of 
seven eggs well beaten. Bake in patty-pans with rich paste. If prepared cocoa- 
nut is used, take one and a half coffee-cupfuls. Fine. 



Cu8tarb8, dreams anb Bessette. 

The usual rule for custards is, eight eggs to a quart of milk; but a very good 
custard can be made of six, or even less, especially with the addition of a level 
tablespoonful of sifted flour, thoroughly blended in the sugar first, before adding 
the other ingredients. They may be baked, boiled or steamed, either in cups or 
one large dish. It improves custards to first boil the milk and then cool it before 
being used; also a Uttle salt adds to the flavor. A very smaU lump^of buttef 
may also be added, if one wants something especially rich. 

To m^e custards look and taste better, duck's eggs should be used when 
obtainable; they add very much to the flavor and richness, and so many are not 
required as of ordinary eggs, four duck's eggs to the pint of milk making a 
delicious custard. When desu-ed extremely rich and good, cream should be sub- 
stituted for the milk, and double the quantity of eggs used to those mentioned^ 
omitting the whites. 

Wboi iwaVing bofled custard, set th« dis^eontaining the custard mto aootber 



306 CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 

and larger dish, partly filled with boiling water, placed over the fire. Let the 
cream or milk come almost to a boil before adding the eggs or thickening, then 
stir it briskly one way every moment until smooth and well cooked; it must imt 
boil or it will curdle. ^ 

To bake a custard, the fire should be moderate, and the dish well buttered. 

Everything in baked custard depends upon the regularly heated slow oven. 
If made with nicety, it is the most delicate of all sweets; if cooked till it wheys, 
it is hardly eatable. 

Frozen eggs can be made quite as good as fn^sh onjp. if used as soon as thawed 
soft. Drop them into boiling water, letting them remai i until the water is cold. 
They will be soft all through and beat up equal to those that have not been 
touched with the frost. 

Eggs should always be thoroughly well-beaten, separately, the yolks first, 
then the sugar added, beat again, then add the beaten whites with the flavoring, 
then the cooled scalded milk. The lighter the eggs are beaten, the thicker and 
richer the custard. 

Eggs should always be broken Into a cup, the whites and yolks separated, 
and they should always be strained. Breaking the eggs thus, the bad ones may 
be easUy rejected without spoiling the others, and so cause no waste. 

A meringue, or frosting for the top, requires about a tablespoonful of fine 
BUgar to the beaten white of one egg; to be placed on the top after the custard 
or pudding is baked; smoothed over with a broad-bladed knife dipped in cold 
water, and replaced in the oven to brown slightly. 

SOFT CARAMEL CUSTARD 
One quart of milk, half a cupful of sugar, six eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Put the milk on to boil, reserving a cupful Beat the eggs and add the cold milk 
to them. Stir the sugar in a small frying-pan until it becomes liquid and just 
begins to smoke. Stir it into the boihng milk; then add the beaten eggs and 
cold milk, and stir constantly until the mixture begins to thicken. Set away to 
cooL Serve in glasses. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

Beat five fresh eggs, the whites and yolks separately, the yolks with half a 
cup. of sugar, the whites to a stiff froth; then stir them gradually into a quart of 
erweet, rich milk, previously boiled and cooled; flavor with extract of lemon or 
vanilla, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Rub butter over i>« bottom and sides 
of s haking-dish or fin basin; pour in the custard, grate a lilUe nutmeg over, 



CVSTjiJljaS, CRMAMS AND DESSEXTS. y>J 

and bake in a quick oven. It is better to set fhe;dish in a shallow pan of hot 
water, reaching nearly to the top, the water to be kept boiling until the custard 
is baked; three-quarters of an hour is generally enough. Run a teaspoon handle 
into the middle of it; if it comes out clean it is baked sufficiently. 

CUP CUSTARD. 

Six eggs, half a cupful of sugar, one quart of new milk. Beat the eggs, and the 
sugar and milk, and any extract or flavoring you like. Fill your custard cups, 
sift a little nutmeg or cinnamon over the tops, set them in a moderate oven in a 
shallow pan half filled with hot water. In about twenty minutes try them 
with the handle of a teaspoon to see if they are firm. Judgment and great care 
are needed to attain skill in baking custard; for if left in the oven a minute too 
long, or if the fire is too hot, the milk will certainly whey. 

Serve cold, vtdth fresh fruit sugared and placed on top of each. Strawberries, 
peaches or raspberries, as preferred. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 
Beat seven eggs very light, omitting the whites of two; mix them gradually 
with a quart of milk and half a cupful of sugar; boil in a dish set into another 
of boiling waterj add flavoring. Ab soon as it comes to the boiling point, remove 
it or it wiU be liable to curdle and become lumpy. Whip the whites of the two 
eggs that remain, adding two heaping tablespoonf uls of sugar. When the cus- 
tard is cold, heap this on top; if in cups put on a strawberry, or a bit of red jelly 
on each. Set in a cold place till wanted. 

—Common Sense in the Household. 

BOILED CUSTARD, OR MOCK CREAM. 

Take two even tablespoonf uls of corn-starch, one quart of milk, three eggs, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a small piece of butter; heat the milk to nearly 
boiling, and add the starch, previously dissolved in a httle cold milk; then add 
the eggs, well beaten, with four tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar; let it toil up 
once or twice, stirring it briskly, and it is done. Flavor wiin lemon, or vanilla, 
or raspberry, or to suit your taste. 

A good substitute for ice cream, served very cold. 

FRENCH CUSTARD. 
One quart of milk, eight eggs, sugar and cinnamon to taste; separate the 
eggs, beat the yolks until thick, to which add the milk, a little vanilla, and 
sweeten to taste; put it into a pan or farina kettle, place it over a slow fire and 



308 CVSTAUDS. CHEAMS AND DESSERTS 

stir it all the time iintil it becomes custard; then pour it into a pudding-dish 
to get cold; whisk the whites until stiff and dry; have ready a pan of boiling 
water, on the top of which place the whites; cover and place them where tha 
water will keep sufKciently hot to cause a steam to pass through and cook them; 
place in a dish (suitable for the table) a layer of custard and white alternately; 
on each layer of custard grate a little nutmeg with a teaspoonful of wine; 
reserve a layer of white for the cover, over which grate nutmeg; then send 
to table, and eat cold. 

GERMAN CUSTARD. 

Add to a pint of good, rich, boiled custard an ounce of sweet almonds, 
blanched, roasted, and pounded to a paste, and half an ounce of pine-nuts or 
peanuts, blanched, roasted and pounded; also a small quantity of candied citron 
cut into the thinnest possible slips; cook the custard as usual, and set it on tha 
ice for some hoius before using. 

APPLE CUSTARD, 

Pare, core and quarter a dozen large juicy pippins. Stew among them the 
yellow peel of a large lemon grated very fine; and stew them till tender in a 
yery small portion of water. When done, mash them smooth with the back of< 
a spoon (you must have a pint and a half of the stewed apple); mix a half- 
cupful of sugar with them, and set them away till cold. Beat six eggs very- 
light, and stir them gradually into a quart of rich milk, alternately with th^ 
etewed apple. Put the mixture into cups, or into a deep dish, and bake it about' 
twenty minutes. Send it to table cold, vdth nutmeg grated over the top. 

ALMOND CUSTARD, No. 1. 

Scald and Jjlanch half a pound of shelled sweet almonds, and three ounces of 
bitter almonds, throwing them, as you do them, into a large bowl of cold water. 
Then pound them, one at a time, into a paste, adding a few drops of wine or 
rose-water to them. Beat eight eggs very light, with two-thirds of a cup of 
sugar, then mix altogether with a quart of rich milk, or part milk and pait 
cream; put the mixture into a sauce-pan and set it over the fire. Stir it one 
way until it begins to thicken, but not till it cui'dles; remove from the fire, and 
wnen it is cooled, put in a glass dish. Having reserved part of the whites of 
the eggs, beat them to a stiff froth, season with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and a teaspoonful of lemon extract; spread over the top of the custard. Serve 
cold 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 3O9 

ALMOND CUSTARD. No. 2. 

Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, pound them as in No. 1 above. 
Tfith six ounces of fine white sugar, and mix them -well with the yolks of four 
eggs; then dissolve one ounce of patent gelatine in one quart of boiling milk, 
strain it through a sieve, and pour ihto it the other mixture; stir the whole over 
the fire until it thickens and is smooth; then pour it into your mold, and keep 
it upon ice, or in a cool place, until wanted; when ready to serve, dip the 
mold into warm water, rub it with a cloth, and turn out the cream carefully 
upon your dish. 

SNOWBALL CUSTARD. 

Soak half a package of Ooxe's gelatine in a teacupful of cold water one hour, 
to which add a pint of boiling water, stir it until the gelatine is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Then beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, put two teacupfuls 
of sugar in the gelatine water first, then the beaten whites of egg, and one tea- 
epoonful of vanilla extract, or the grated rind and the juice of a lemon. Whip 
it some time until it is all quite stiff and cold. Dip some teacups or wine-glaases 
in cold water and fill them; set in a cold place. 

In the meantime, make a boiled custard of the yoiks of three of the eggs, 
with half of a cupful of sugar, and a pint of milk; flavor with vanilla extract. 
Now after the meringue in the cups has stood four or five hours, turn them out 
of the molds, place them in a glass dish, and pour this custard around the base. 

BAKED COCOANUT CUSTARD. 
Grate as much cocoanut as will weigh a pound. Mix half a pound of pow- 
dered white sugar with the milk of the cocoanut, or with a pint of cream, add- 
ing two tablespoonf uls of rose water. Then stir in gradually a pint of rich milk. 
Beat to a stiff froth the whites of eight eggs, and stir them into the milk and 
sugar, a little at a time, alternately with the grated cocoanut; add a teaspoonful 
of powdered nutmeg and cinnamon. Then put the mixture f^ito cups, and bake 
them twenty minutes in a moderate oven, set in pan half filled with boiliog 
water. When .cold, grate loaf sugar over them. 

WHIPPED CREAM. No. I. 

To the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add a pint of thick, sweet 
cream (previously set where it is very cold), and four teaspoonfula of sweet 
wine with three of fine white sugar, and a teaspoonful of the extract of lemon 
01 vanilla. Mix all the ingredients together on a broad platter or pan, and whip 
it to a standing froth; as the froth rises.take it off lightly with a spoon, and lay 



3«0 CUSTARDS, CRBAATS AND DESSERTS, 

it on an inverted sieve with a dish tinder it to catch what will drain through; 
and what drains through can be beaten over again. 

Serve in a glass dish with jelly or jam, and sliced sponge cake. This 
should be whipped in a cool place, and set in the ice-box. 

WHIPPED CREAM. No. 2. 
Three coffee-cupfuls of good thick sweet cream, half of a cup of powdered 
sugar, three teaspoonfuls of vanilla; whip it to a stiff froth. Dissolve three* 
fourths of an ounce of best gelatine in a teacup of hot water, and when coo) 
pour it in the cream and stir it gently from the bottom upward, cutting the 
cusam into it, tmtil it thickens. The dish which contains the cream should 
be set in another dish containing ice water, or cracked ice. When finished, pour 
in molds and set on ice or in a very cold place. 

SPANISH CREAM. 
Take one quart of milk and soak half a box of gelatuie in it for an hour; 
place it on the fire and stir often. Beat the yolks of three e^s veiy light with 
a cupful of sugar, stir into the scalding milk, and heat until it begins to thicken, 
(it should not boil, or it will curdle); remove from the fire, and strain through 
thin muslin or tarletan, and when nearly cold, flavor with vanilla or lemon; then 
wet a dish or mold in cold water and set aside to stiffen. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 
One quart of sweet cream, the yolks of four eggs, beaten together with a 
cupful of sugar. Dissolve half ah oimce of gelatine or isinglass in half a teacup- 
ful of warm water; when it is dissolved, stir in a pint of boiling hot cream; add 
the beaten yolks and sugar; cook all together vmtil it begins to thicken,, then 
remove from the fire and add the other pint of cold cream, whipped to a stiff 
froth; adding a little at a time, and beating hard. Season with vanilla or lemon. 
Whip- the whites of the eggs for the top. Dip the mold in cold water before 
fining; set it in a cold place. To this could be added almonds, pounded; grated 
chocolate, peaches, pineapples, strawbeiries, raspberries or any seasonable fruit. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Pick off the hulls of a box of strawbenies, bruise them in a basin with a cup 
of powdered sugar; rub this through a sieve, and mix with it a pint of whipped 
cream and one oimce and a half of clarified isinglass or gelatine; povir the cream 
Intoamold, previously oiled. Set it ia rough ice, and when it has become firm 
turn out on a dish 

Baepberries or currants may be substituted for strawberriea. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 3U 

GOLDEN CREAM. 

6oQ a quart of milk; when boiling, stir into it the well-beaten yolks of six 
eggs; add six tablespoonfuls of sugar and one tablespoonful of sifted flour, 
which have been well-beaten together; when boiled, turn it into a dish, and pour 
over it the whites beaten to a stifE froth, mixing with them six tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Set all in the oven, and brown slightly. Flavor the top 
with vanilla, and the bottom with lemon. Serve cold. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. No. l. 

Three ounces of grated chocolate, one-quarter pound of sugar, one and one- 
half pints of cream, one and one-half oimces of clarified isinglass, or gelatine, the 
yolks of six eggs. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs well; put them into a basin with the grated choco- 
late, the sugar, and one pint of the cream; stir these ingredients well together, 
pour them into a basin, and set this basin in a sauce-pan of boiling water; stir 
it one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will 
curdle. Strain the cream through a sieve into a basin, stir in the isinglass and 
the other one-half pint of cream, which should be weU whipped; mix all well 
together, and pour it into a mold which has been previously oiled with the 
purest salad-oil, and, if at hand, set itin ice until wanted for table. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM OR CUSTARD. No. 2. 

Take one quart of milk, and when nearly boiling stir in two ounces of grated 
chocolate; let it warm on the fire for a few moments, and then remove and cool; 
beat the yolks of eight eggs and two whites with eight tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
then pour the milk over them; flavor and bake as any custard, either in cups or 
■a large dish. Make a meringue of the remaining whites. 

LEMON CREAM. No. I. 

One pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs, one quarter of a pound of white 
sugar, one large lemon, one ounce isinglass or gelatine 

Put the cream into a lined sauce-pan, with the sugar, lemon-peel, and isin- 
glass, and simmer these over a gentle fire for about ten minutes, stirring thera 
•all the time. Strain the cream into a basin add the yolks of eggs, which should 
be well-beaten, and put the basin into a sauce-pan of boiling water; stir the mix- 
tuie one way until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; take it off the fire, and 
keep stirring it until nearly cold. Strain the lemon-juice into a basin, gradually 
pour on it the Cream, and stir it well untfl the juice is well mixed with it. Have 



Ji> CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERins. 

ready a well-oiled mold, pour the cream into it, and let it remain until perfectly 
Bet. When required for table, loosen the edges with a smaU blunt knife, put a 
dish on the top of the mold, turn it over quickly, and the cream should easily 
slip av/av. 

LEMON CREAM. No. 2. 

Pare into one quart of boihng water the peels of tour large lemons, the yellow 
outside only; let it stand for four hours; then take them out and add lo the 
water the juice of the four lemons, and one cupful of white, fine sugar. Beat 
the yolks of ten eggs, and mix all together; strain it through a piece of lawn or 
lace into a porcelain lined stew-pan; set it over a slow fire; stir it one way until 
it is as thick as good cream, hut do not let it boil; then take it from the fire, 
and when cool, serve in custard cups. 

LEMON CREAM. No. 3. 

Peel three lemons, and squeeze out the juice into one quart of milk. Add 
the peel; cut in pieces and cover the mixture for a few hours; then add six eggs, 
well-beaten, and one pint of water, well-sweetened. Strain and simmer over a 
gentle fire till it thickens; do not let it boil. Serve very cold. 

ORANGE CREAM, 

Whip a pint of cream so long that there will be but one-half the quantity left 
when skimmed off. Soak in half a cupful of cold water a half package of gela- 
tine, and then grate over it the rind of two oranges. Strain the juice of six 
oranges, and add to it a cupful of sugar; now put the half pint of un whipped 
cream into a double boiler, pour into it the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, stirring 
until it begins to thicken, then add the gelatine. Kemove from the fire, let it 
etand for two minutes and add the orange juice and sugar; beat all together until 
about th? consistency of soft custard, and add the whipped cream. Mix well, 
and turn into moulds to harden. To be served with sweetened cream. Fine. 

SOLID CREAM, 

Pour tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, one quart of cream, two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy, the juice of one large lemon. 

Strain the lemon- juice over the sugar, and add the brandy, then stir in 
the cream, put the mixture into a pitcher and continue pouring from one 
pitcher to another, until it is quite thick, or it may be whisked until the de- 
sired consistency is obtained. It should be served in jelly-glasses. 



CUSTAUDS, CREAMS AiVD DESSEJiTS. 3i3 

BANANA CREAM. 
After peeling the bananas, mash them with an hon or wooden spoon; allow 
equal quantities of bananas and sweet cream; to one quart of the mixture, allow 
one-quarter of a pound of sugar. Beat them all together until the cream is light. 

TAPIOCA CREAM CUSTARD. 
Soak three heaping tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a teacupful of water over 
night. Place over the fire a quart of milk; let it come to a boil, then stir in the 
tapioca; a good pinch of salt; stir until it thickens; then add a cupful of sugar, 
and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir it quickly and pour it iuto a dish and 
stir gently into the mixture the whites beaten stiff, the flavoring, and set it on 
ice, or in an ice-chest. 

PEACH CREAM. No. I. 
Mash very smooth two cupfuls of canned peaches, rub them through a sieve, 
and cook foe three minutes in a syrup made by boiling together one. cupful of 
sugar, and stirring all the time. Place the pan containing thfe syrup and peaches 
into another of boiling water and add one-half packet of gelatine, prepared the 
same as in previous recipe^, and stir for five minutes to thoroughly dissolve the 
gelatine; then take it from the fire, place in a pan of ice- water, beat until nearly 
cool, and then add- the well frothed whites of six eggs. Beat this whole mix- 
ture until it commences to harden. Then pour into a mould, set away to cool, 
and serve with cream and sugar. It should be placed on the ice to cool for two 
or three hours before serving. 

PEACH CREAM. No. 2. 
A quart of fine peacnes, pare and stone the fruit and cut in quarters. Beat 
the whites of three eggs "with a half cupful of powdered sugar until it is stiff 
^enough to cut with a knife. Take the yolks and mix with half a cupful of 
granulated sugar and a pint of milk. Put the peaches into the mucture, place 
in a pudding-dish and bake until almost firm; then put in the whites, mixing all 
thoroughly again, and bake a light brown. Eat ice-cold. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Put two pints pf cream into two bowls; with one bowl mix six ounces of 

powdereidlSaf sugar, the juice of twe large lemons and two glassf uls of white 

wine; then add the other pint of cream, and stir the whole very hard; bfiil two 

ounces of isinglass or gelatine with four small teacupf uls of water till reduced te 



3^4 CUSTAJtDS. CREAHfS AND DESSERTS.^ 

one-half; then stir the mixture lukewarm into the other ingredients; put them 
in a glass dish to congeal 

SNOW CREAM. 

Heat a quart of thick, sweet cream; when ready to boil, stir into it quickly 
three tablespoonfuls of corn-starch ■flour, blended with some cold cream; sweeten 
to tastOj and allow it to boil gently, stirring for two or three minutes; add 
quickly the whites of six eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; do not allow it to boil up 
more than once after adding the egg; flavor with lemon, vanilla, bitter almon(? 
or grated lemon peel; lay the snow thus formed quickly in rocky heaps on silver 
or glass dishes, or in shapes. Iced, it will turn out well. 

If the recipe is closely foUowed, any family may enjoy it at a trifling expense, 
and it is really worthy the table of an epicure. It can be made the day before 
lit is to be eaten: kept cold. 

MOCK, ICE. 

Take about three tablespoonfuls of some good preserve; rub it through a sieve 
with as much cream as will fill a quart mould; dissolve three-quarters of an 
ounce of isinglEiss or gelatine in half a pint of water; when almost cold, mix it 
well with the cream; put it into a mold; set it in a cool place, and turn out 
next day. 

PEACH MERINGUE. 

Pare and quarter (removing stones) a quart of sound, ripe peaches; place them 
all in a dish that it will not injure to set in the oven, and yet be suitable to place 
on the table. Sprinkle the peaches vrtth sugar, and cover them well with the 
beaten whites of three eggs. Stand the dish . in the oven, until the eggs have 
become a dehcate brown, then remove, and, when cool enough, set the dish on 
ice, or in a very cool place. Take the yolks of the eggs, add to them a pint of 
milk, sweeten and flavor, and boil same in a custard kettle, being careful to keep 
the eggs from curdling. When cool, pour into a glass pitcher and serve with 
the meringue when ready to use. 

APPLE FLOAT. 
One dozen apples, pared and cored, one pouhd and a half of sugar. Put the 
apples on with water enough to cover them, and let them stew until they look 
as if they woxild break; then take them out and put the sugar into the same 
water; let the syrup come to a boil; put in the apples, and let them stew imtil 
done through and clear; then take them out, sUce into the syrup one large 
lemon, and add an ounce of. gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold water. Let the 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 3 1 5 

whole mix well and come to a boil; then pour upon the apples. The syrup will 
congeal. It is to be eaten cold with cream. 

Or you may change the dish by making a soft custard with the yolk of four 
eggs, three tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar, and a scant quart of milk. When 
cold, spread it over the apples. Whip the whites of the eggs, flavor with lemon, 
•nd olace on the custard. Color in the oven. 

SYLLABUB. 

One quart of rich milk or cream, a cupful of wine, half a. cupful of sugar; 
put (he sugar and wine into a bowl, and the milk lukewarm in a separate 
vessel. When the sugar is dissolved in the wine, pour the milk in, holding 
it high; pour it back and forth until it is frothy. Grate nutmeg over it. 

CREAM FOR FRUIT. 

This recipe is an excellent substitute for pure cream, to be eaten on fresli 
berries and fruit. 

One cupful of sweet milk; heat it until boihng. Beat together the whites 
or two eggs, a tablespoonf ul of white sugar, and a piece of butter the size of i 
nutmeg. Now add half a cupful of cold milk and a teaspoonful of corn-starch; 
stir well together imtil very hght and smooth, then add it to the boiling milk; 
cook it until it thickens; it must not boil. Set it aside to cooL It should be of 
fche consistence of real fresh creani. Serve in a creamer. 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE. 

One quart of strawberries, half a package of gelatine, one cupful and a half 
of water, one cupful of sugar, the juice of a lemon, the whites of four eggs. 
Soak the gelatine for two hours in half a cupful of the water. Mash the straw- 
berries, axA add half the sugar to them. Boil the. remainder of the sugar and 
the water gently twenty minutes. Eub the strawberries through a sieve. Add the 
gelatine to the boiling syrup and take from the fire immediately; then add the 
strawberries. Place in a pan of ice water, and beat five minutes. Add the 
whites of eggs, and beat until the mixtm-e begins to thicken. Pour in the molds 
and set away to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. Easpberry and black- 
berry sponges are made in the same way. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

Lemon sponge is made from the juice of four lemons, four eggs, a cupful of 
sugar, half a package of gelatine, and one pint of water. Strain lemon juice on 
the sugar; beat the yolks of the eggs, and mix with the remainder of the water, 

3i 



3i6 CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 

having used a half cupful of the pint in which to soak the gelatine &.dd the 
Bugar and lemon to this and cook until it begins to thicken, then add the'gela- 
tine. Strain this into a basin, which place in a pan of water to cool. Beat with a 
whisk until it has cooled but not hardened; now add the white of the eggs until 
it begins to thicken, turn into a mold and set to harden. 

Bemember, the sponge hardens very rapidly when it commences to cool, so 
have your molds all ready. Serve with powdered sugar dnd cream. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Stew some fine-flavored sour apples tender, sweeten to taste, strain them 
through a fine wire sieve, and break into one pint of strained-apples the white 
of an egg; whiak the apple and egg very briskly till quit© stiff, and it wiU be as 
white as snow; eaten with a nice boiled custard it makes a very desirable 
dessert. More eggs may be used, if liked. 

QUINCE SNOW. 
Quarter five fair-looking quinces, and boil them tiU they are tender in water, 
then peel them and push them through a coarse sieve. Sweeten to the tast« 
and add the whites of three or four eggs. Then with an egg-whisk beat aU to 
a stiff froth and pile with a spoon upon a glass dish and set away in the ioe-boz, 
unless it is to be served immediately. 

ORANGE TRIFLE. 

Take the thin parings from the outside of a dozen oranges and put to 
steep in wide-mouthed bottle; cover it with good cognac, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours; skin and seed the oranges, and reduce to a pulp; press 
this through a sieve, sugar to taste, arrange in a dish, and heap with whipped 
cream flavored with the orange brandy; ice two hours before serving. 

LEMON TRIFLE. 

The juice of two lemons and grated peel of one, one pint of cream, well- 
sweetened and whipped stiff, one cupful of sherry, a little nutmeg. Let 
sugar, lemon-juice, and peel lie together two hours before you add wine and 
nutmeg. Strain through double tarlatan, and whip gradually into the frothed 
cream. Serve very soon heaped in small glasses. Nice with cakq. 

FRUIT TRIFLE. 

Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two tablespoonfuls each of 
sugar, currant jelly and raspberry jam. Eaten with sponge cakes, it is a 
delicious dessert 



CUSTAXDS, CXSAMS AND DBSSEHrS. 317 

GRAPE TRIFLE. 
Pulp through a sieve two pounds of ripe grapes, enough to keep back the 
stones, add sugar to taste. Put into a trifle dish, and cover with whipped cream, 
nicely flavored. Serve very cold. 

APPLE TRIFLE. 

Peel, core and quarter some good tart apples of nice flavor, and stew them 
with a strip of orange and a strip of quince-peel, sufficient water to coverwthe 
bottom of the stew-pan, and sugar in the proportion of half a pound to one 
pound of fruit; when cooked, press the pulp through a sieve; and whep cold, 
dish, and cover with one pint of whipped cream, flavored with lemon-peeL 

Quinces prepared in the same manner are equally as good. 

PEACH TRIFLE. 
Select perfect, fresh peaches, peel and core and cut in quarters; they should 
be well sugared, arranged in a trifle dish with a few of their own blanched kernels 
among them, then heaped with whipped cream as above; the cream should not 
be flavored; this trifle should be set on the ice for at least an hour before serv- 
ing; home-made sponge qakes should be served with it. 

GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. 

One quart of gooseberries, sugar to taste, one pint of custard, a plateful of 
whipped cream. 

Put the gooseberries into a jar, with sufficient moist sugar to sweeten them, 
and boil them until reduced to a pulp. Put this pulp at the bottom of a trifle 
dish; pour over it a pint of custard, and, when cold, cover with whipped cream. 
The cream should be wliipped the day before it is wanted for table, as it will 
then be so much firmer and more solid. This dish may be garnished as fancy 
dictates. 

LEMON HONEY. 

One coffee-cupful of -white sugar,-, the' grated rind and juice of one large 
lemon, the yolk of three eggs, and the white of one, a t&.blespoonful of butter. 
Put into a basin the sugar and butter, set it in a dish of boiling water over the 
fire; while "this is melting, beat up the eggs, and add to them the grated rind 
from the outside of the lemon; then add this to the sugar and butter, cooking 
and stirring it until it is. thick and clear like honey. 

This will keep for some days, put int<J a tight preserve jar, and is nice for 
Savoring pies, etc., 



VB CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS, 

FLOATING ISLANDS. 
Beat the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two very light; sweeten with 
five tablespoonf uls of sugar and flavor to taste; stir them into a quart of scalded 
milk and cook it until it thickens. When cool, pour it into a gla,ss dish. Now 
whip the whites of the three remaining eggs to a stiff froth; adding three table- 
spoontuls of sugar, and a httle flavoring. Pour this froth over a shallow dish 
of boiling water; the steam passing through it cooks it; when sufficiently cooked, 
take a tablespoon and drop spoonfuls of this over the top of the custard, far 
enough apart so that the " little white islands " vidll not touch each other. By 
dropping a teaspoonful of bright jelly on the top or centre of each island, is pro- 
duced a pleasing effect; also by filUng wine-glasses and arranging them around 
a standard adds much to the appearance of the table. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 
One quart of milk, five eggs, and five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Scald the 
milk, then add the beaten yolks and one of the whites together with the sugar. 
First stir into them a Utile of the scalded milk to prevent curdling, thefa all of 
the milk. Cook it the proper thickness; remove from the fire, and when cool, 
flavor; then pour it into a glass dish and let it become very cold. Before it is 
served, beat up the remaining four whites pf the eggs to a stiff froth, and beat 
into them three tablespoonfuls of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. 
Dip this over the top of tHe custard, 

TAPIOCA BLANC MANGE. 
Half a pound of tapioca, soaked an hour in one pint of milk, and boiled till 
tender; add a pinch of salt, sweeten to taste, and put into a mold; when cold, 
turn it out, and serve with strawberry or raspberry jam around it and a little 
cream. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

BLANC MANGE. No. i. 
In one teacupf ul of water boil until dissolved one ounce of clarified isinglass, 
or of patent gelatine, (which is better); stir it continually while boiling. Then 
squeeze the juice of a lemon upon a cupful of fine, white sugar; stir the sugar 
into a quart of rich cream, and half a pint of Madeira or Sherry wine; when 
it is well mixed, add the dissolved isinglass or gelatine, stir all well together, 
pour it into molds previously wet with cold water; set the molds upon ice, 
let them stand until their contents are hard and cold, then serve with sugar 
and cream or custard sauce. 



Ct/STAJtDS, CREAMS AND DESSEHTS. V9 

BLANC MANGE. No. 2. 
Dissolve two ounces of patent gelatine in cold water; when it & dissolved, 
stir it into two quarts of rich milk, with a teacupful of fine white sugar; season 
it to your taste with lemon, or vanilla, or peach water; place it over the fire and 
boil it, stirring it continually; let it boil five minutes; then strain it through a 
cloth, pour it into molds previously wet with cold water, and salt; let it stand 
on ice, or in any cool place, until it becomes hard and cold; turn it out carefully 
upon dishes and serve; or, half fill your mold; when this has set, cover with 
cherries, peaches in halves, strawberries or sUced bananas, and add the ro> 
mainder. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 
Half a box of gelatine soaked in a cupful of watei for an hour, half a cupful 
of grated chocolate, rubbed' smooth in a httle milk. Boil two cupfuls of milk, 
then add th'e gelatine and chocolate, and one cupful of sugar; boil all- together 
eight or ten minutes. Eemove from the fire, and when nearly cold beat into 
this the whipped whites of three eggs, fiavored with vanilla. Should be served 
cold with custard made of the yolks, or sugar and creeim. Set the molds in a 
cold place. 

CORN-STARCH BLANC MANGE. 

Take one quart of sweet milk, and put one pint upon the stove to heat; in the 
other pint mix f oiu- heaping tablespoonf uls of corn-starch and half a cupful of 
sugar; when the milk is hot, pour in the cold milk with the corn-starch and 
sugar thoroughly mixed in it, aad stir all together until there are no Imnps and 
it is thick; flavor with lemon; take from the stove, and add the whites of three 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

A Custard for the above.— One pint of milk boiled with a httle salt in it; 
beat the yolks of three eggs with half a cupful of sugar, and add to the boiling 
milk; stir weU, but do not let it boil tmtil the eggs are put in; flavor to taste. 

FRUIT BLANC MANGE. 

Stew nice, fresh fruit (cherries, raspberries, and strawberries being the best), 
or canned ones wiU do; strain off the juice, and sweeten to taste; place it over 
the fire in a double kettle imtil it boils; while boiling, stir in corn-starch wet 
with a little cold water, allowing two tablespoonf uls of com-starch to each pint 
of juice; continue stirring until sufficiently cooked; then pour into molds wet ia 
cold water, and set away to cool. Served with cream and sugar. 



jao CC/STARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 
For two molds of medium size, soak half a box of gelatine in half a cupful 
of water for two hours. Add one and a half cupful of boiling water, and strain. 
Then add two cupfuls of sugar, one of orange juice and pulp, and the juice of 
one lemon. Stir until the mixture begins to cool, or about five minutes; then 
add the whites of six eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Beat the whole until so stiff 
that it will only just pour into molds lined with sections of orange. Set away 
tocooL 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Make a boiled custard of one quart of milk, the yolks of six eggs, and three- 
quarters of a cupful of sugar; flavor to taste. Line a glass fruit dish with shoes 
of sponge cake, dipped in sweet cream; lay upon this ripe strawberries sweetened 
to taste; then a layer of cake and strawberries as before. When the custard is 
cold, pour over the whole. Now beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 
a tablespoonf ul of sugar to each egg, and put over the top. Decorate the top 
with the largest berries saved out at the commencement. 

Raspberry Charlotte may be made the same way. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. (Fine) 

Whip one quart of rich cream to a stiff froth, and drain welj on a nice sieve. 
To one scant pint of milk add six .eggs beaten very Ught; make very^weet; 
flavor high with vanilla. Cook over hot water till it is a thick custard. Soak 
one full ounce of Cox's gelatine in a very httle water, and warm over hot water. 
When the custard is veiy cold, beat in Ughtly the gelatine and the whipped 
cream. Line the bottom of your mold with buttered paper, the side" with 
sponge cake or lady-fingers fastened together with the white of an egg. Fill 
with the cream, put in a cold place, or in summer on ice. To turn out, dip the 
mold for a moment in hot water. In draining the whipped cream, all that drips 
through can be re-whipped. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Cut stale sponge cake into slices about half an inch thick and line three molds 
with them, leaving a space of half an inch between each shoe; set the molds 
where they x^ not be disturbed until the filling is ready. Take a deep tin pan 
and fill about one-third full of either snow or pounded ice, and into this set 
another pan that will hold at least four quarts. Into a deep bowl or pail (a whip 
chum is better) put one and a half pints of cream (if the cream is very thick taka^ 



CUSTAR&S, m^AMS A NO BBBSERTS. i« 

one pint of cream and a half pint of milk); whip it to a froth, and when the 

bowl is full, skim the froth into the pan which is standing on the ice, and 

repeat this until the cream is all froth; then with a spoon draw the froth to one 

side, and you will find that some of the cream has gone back to milk; turn this 

into the bowl again, and whip as before; when the cream is all whipped, stir into 

it two-thirds of a cup of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla and haJf of 

a box of gelatine, which has been soaked in cold water enough to cover it for 

one hour, and then dissolved in boDing water enough to dissolve it (about half 

a cup) ; stir from the bottom of the pan until it begins to grow stiff; fill the molds 

and set them on ice in the pan for one hour, or xmtil they are sent to the table. 

"When ready to dish them, loosen lightly at the sides and turn out on a flat disfa. 

Have the cream ice-cold when you begin to whip it; and it is a good plan to put 

a lump of ice into the cream while whipping it. 

— Mar\a Parloa. 

ANOTHER CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of gelatine soaked in a little cold milk two hours; two 
coflfeecupfuls of rich cream; one teacupful of milk. Whip the cream stiff in a 
large bowl or dish; set on ice. Boil the mUk and pour gradually over the gela«- 
tine until dissolved, then strain; when nearly cold, add the whipped cream, a 
spoonful at a time. Sweeten with powdered sugar.^flavor with extract of vanilla. 
Line a dish with lady-fingers or sponge cake; pour in cream, and set in a cool place 
to harden. This is about the same recipe as M. Parloa's, but is not as explicit in 
detail. 

PLAIN CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Make a rule of white sponge cake; bake in narrow, shallow pans. Then 
make a custard of the yolks, after this recipe. Wet a sauce-pan with cold water 
to prevent the milk that will be scalded in it from burning. Pour out the water 
and put in a quart of milk; boil and partly cool. Beat up the yblks of six egga, 
and add three ounces of sugar and a saltspoonful of salt; mix thoroughly and 
add the Inke-warm milk. Stir and pour the custard into a porcelain or double 
eauce-pan, and stir while on the range until of the consistency of cream; do not 
aUow it to boil, as that woiild curdle it; strain, and when almost cold, add two 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Now having arranged your cake (cut into inch slices) 
around the sides and on the bottom of a glass dish, pour over the custard. If 
you wish a meringue on the top, beat up the whites of four eggs with four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; flavor witblemoff or vaaiJa, epHread over the top, and brown i 
•lightly in the oven. 



533 CUSTASDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 

PLAIM CHARLOTTE RUSSE. No. 2. 
Put some thin slices of sponge cake in the bottom of a glass sauee-dish; pour 
i;i wine enough to soak it; beat up the whites of three eggs until very light; add 
to it three tablespoonf ula of finely powdered sugar, a glass of sweet wine, and 
one pint of thick, sweet cream; beat it well, and pour over the cake. Set it m a 
cold place until served. 

NAPLE BISCUITS, OR CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Make. a double rule of sponge cake; bake it in round, deep patty-pans; when 
cold, cut out the inside about one quarter of an inch from the edge and botton^, 
leaving the shell. Replace the inside with a custard made of the yolks of four 
eggs, beaten with a pint of boiling milk, sweetened and flavored; lay on the top 
of this some jelly or jam; beat the whites of three eggs with three heaping 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar untU it will stand in a heap; flavor it a little; 
place this on the jelly. Set them aside in a cold place until time to serve. 

ECONOMICAL CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Make a quart of nicely flavored mock custard, put it into a large glass 
fruit dish, which is partly filled with stale cake (of any kind) cut up into small 
pieces about an inch square, stir it a Uttle, t^n beat the whites of two or more 
eggs stiff, sweetened with white sugar; spread over the top, set in a refrigerator 
to become cold. 

Or, to be still more economical: To make the cream, take a pint and a half 
of milk, set it on the stove to boil, mix together in a bowl the following named 
articles: large half cup of sugar, one moderately heaped teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one egg, a small half cup of 
milk and a pinch of salt. Pour into the boiling milk, remove to top of the stove 
and let simmer a minute or two. When the cream is cold pour over the cake 
just before setting it on the table. Serve in saucers. If you do not have plenty 
of eggs you can use all corn-starch, about two heaping teaspoonfuls; but be 
careful and not get the cream too thick, and have it free from lumps. 

The cream ^should ba flavored, either ■with vanilla or lemon extract. Nut- 
meg might answer. 

TUPSY CHARLOTTE. 

Take a stale sponge cake, cut the bottom and sides &f it, so as to make it 
stand even in a glass fruit dish; make a few deep gashes through it with a sharp 
knife, pour ov^r it a pint of good wine, let it stand and soak into the cake. In 



CUSTAJtDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 323 

the meantime, blanch, peel and slice lengthwise half a pound of sw^t almonds; 
stick them all over the top of the cake. Have ready a pint of good boUed ciu- 
tard, weU flavored, and pour over the whole. To be dished with a spoon. This 
fo equally a& good as any Charlotte. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, one-third of a cupful of cold water, one third 
of a cupful 0% boiling water, and one cup of sugar, the juice of one lemon, 
and one cupfvd of orange juice and pulp, a Uttle grated orange-peel and 
the whites of four eggs, ^oak the gelatine in the cold water one hour. Pour 
the boiling water over the lemon and orange juice, cover it and let stand half an 
hour; then add the sugar, let it come to a boil on the fire, stir in the gelatine, and 
trhen it is thoroughly dissolved, take from the fire. When cool enough, beat 
into it the four beaten whites of egg, tiu-n into the mold and set in a cold place 
to stiffen, first placing pieces of sponge cake all around the mold. 

BURNT ALMOND CHARLOTTE. 

One cupful of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped fine, half a box of gela- 
tine soaked two hours in half a cupful of cold water; when the gelatine is suffi- 
ciently soaked, put three tablespoonfuls of sugar into a sauce-pan over the fire 
and stir until it becomes liquid and looks dark; then add the chopped almonds 
to it, and stir two minutes more; turn it out on a platter and set aside to get 
cool. After they become cool enough, break them up in a mortar, put them in 
a cup and a half of milk, and cook again for ten minutes. Now beat together 
the yolk of two eggs with a cupful of sugar, and add to the cooking mixture; 
add also the gelatine; stir until smooth and well dissolved; take from the fire and 
set in a basin of ice- water and beat it until it begins to thicken; then add to that 
two quarts of whipped cream, and turn the whole carefuUy into molds, set 
away on the ice 10 become firm. Sponge cake can be placed around the mold or 
not, as desired. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. WITH PINEAPPLE. 

Peel and cut a pineapple in shces, put the sUces into a stew-pan with half a 
pound of fine white sugar, half an ounce of isinglass, or of patent gelatine, 
(which is better), and half a teacupful of water; stew it untD it is quite tender, 
then rub it' through a sieve, place it upon ice, and stir it well; when it is upon 
the point of setting, add a pint of cream well whipped, mix it well, and pour it 
into s mold lined with sponge cake, or prepared in 'any other way you prefer. 



324 CUSTAUDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 

COUNTRY PLUM CHARLOTTE 

Stone a quart of ripe plums; first stew, and then, sweeten them. Cut slices 

of bread and butter, and lay them in the bottom and around the sides of a large 

bowl or deep dish. Pour in the plums boiling hot, cover the bowl, and set it 

away to cool gradually. When quite cold, send it to table, and eat it with cream. 

VELVET CREAM, WITH STRAWBERRIES 
Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a gill of water; add to it half a pint of 
light sherry, grated lemon-peel and the juice of one lemon and five ounces of 
sugar. Stir over the fire until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Then strain 
and cooL Befoi'e it sets beat into it a pint of cream; pour into molds and keep 
on ice untQ wanted. Half fill the small molds with fine strawberries, pour the 
mixture on top, and place on ice vmtil wanted. 

CORN-STARCH MERINGUE. 

Heat a quart of milk untii it bofls, add four heaping teaspoonfuls of com- 
etarch which has previously been dissolved in a little cold milk. Stir constantly 
while boiling, for fifteen minutes. Remove from the fire, and gradually add 
while hot the yolks of five eggs, beaten together with three-fourths of a cupful 
of sugar, and flavored with lemon, vanilla or bitter almond. Bake this mixture 
for fifteen minutes in a well-buttered pudding-dish or until it begins to " set." 

Make a meringue of the whites of five eggs, whipped stiff with a half cupful 
of jelly and spread evenly over the custard, without removing the same farther 
than the edge of the oven. 

Use currant jelly if vanilla is used in the custard, crab-apple for bitter almond, 
and strawberry for lemon. Cover and bake for five minutes, after which take 
off the lid and brown the meringue a very little. Sift powdered sugar thickly 
over the top. To be eaten cold. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 
Thi5 recipe is the same as " Boston Cream Pie," (adding half an ounce of but- 
ter,) which may be found under the head of ' ' Pastry, Pies and Tarts. ' ' In summer 
time, it is a good plan to bake the pie the day before wanted; then when cool, 
wrap around it a paper and place it in the ice-box so as to have it get v&ry cold; 
then serve it with a dish of fresh strawberries, or raspberries. A delicious dessert. 

CREAM PIE. No. 2. 
Make two cakes as for Washington pie, then take one cup of sweet cream 
ftnd three tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Beat with egg-beater or fork tiU it is 



CUSTAJmS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 325 

stiff enough to put on without running off, and flavor with vanilla. If you beat 
it after it is stiff it will come to butter. Put between the cakes and on top. 

DESSERT PUFFS. 
Puffs for dessert are delicate and nice; take one pint of milk and cream each, 
the white of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one heaping cupful of sifted floiu-, 
one scant cupful of powdered sugar, add a little grated lemon-peel, and a little 
salt; beat these all together till veiy light, bake in gem-pans, sift pulverized 
sugar over them, and eat with sauce flavored with lemon. 

PEACH CAKE FOR DESSERT. 

Bake three sheets of sponge-cake, as for jelly-cake;' cut nice ripe peaches in 
thin slices, or chop them; prepare cream by whipping, sweetening and adding 
flavor of vanilla, if desired; put layers of peaches between the sheets of cake; 
pour cream over each layer and over the top. To be eaten soon after it is 
prepared. 

FRUIT SHORT-CAKES. 

For the recipes of strawberry, peach and other fruit short-cakes, look under 
the head of "Biscuits, Rolls and Muffins." They all make a very delicious 
dessert when served with a pitcher of fresh, sweet cream, when obtainable. 

SALTED OR ROASTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch half a pound of almonds. Put with them a tablespoonful of melted 
butter and one of salt. Stir them till well mixed, then spread them over a 
baking-pan and bake fifteen minutes, or till crisp, stirring often. They must be 
bright yellow-brown when done. They are a fashionable appetizer, and should 
he placed in ornamental dishes at the beginning of dinner, and are used by some 
in place of olives, which, however, should also be on the table, or some fine 
pickles may take their place. 

ROAST CHESTNUTS. 

Peel the raw chestnuts and scald them to remove the inner skin; put them 
in a frying-pail with a little butter and toss them about a few moments; add 
a sprinkle of salt and a suspicion of cayenne. Serve them after the cheese. 

Peanuts may be blanched and roasted the same, 

AFTER-DINNER CROUTONS. 
These crispy croutons answer as a substitute for hard-water crackers, and 
are also relished by most people. 

Cut sandwicb-bread into slices one-quarter of an inch thick; cut each slice 



326 CUSTAJeOS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 

into four small triangles; dry tham in the oven slowly until they assume a deli- 
cate brownish tint, then serve, either hot or cold. A nice way to serve them is 
to spread a paste of part butter and part rich, creamy cheese, to which may bo 
added a very little minced parsley 

ORANGE, FLOAT. 

To make orange float, take one quart of water, the juice and pulp of two 
lemons, one coffee-cupful of sugar. When boiling hot, add four tablespoonf ul 
of corn-starch. Let it boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. ^Vhen cold, 
pour it over four or five oranges that have been sliced into a glass dish, and over 
the top spread the beaten whites of three eggs, sweetened and flavored with 
vanilla. A nice dessert. 

LEMON TOAST. 

This dessert can be made very conveniently without much preparation. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them well, and add three cupfuls of sweet 
milk; take baker's bread, not too stale and cut into slices; dip them into the 
milk and eggs, and lay the slices into a spider, with sufficient melted butter, hot, 
to fry a delicate brown. Take the whites of the six eggs, and beat them to a 
froth, adding a large cupful of white sugar; add the juice of two lemons, heating 
well, and adding two cupfuls of boiling water. Serve over the toast as a sauce, 
and you will find it a very deliciousjdish. 

SWEET OMELET. No. I. 
One tablespoonful of butter, two of sugar, one cupful of milk, foui* eggs. 
Let the milk come to aboiL Beat the flour and butter together ; add to them 
gradually the boiling milk, and cook eight minutes, stirring often; beat the su- 
gar and the^oDcs of the eggs together; add to the cooked mixture, and set away 
to <5ooL When cool, beat the whites of the eggs to 9, stiff froth, and add to the 
mixture. Bake in a buttered pudding-dLsh for twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve immediately/, with creamy sauce. 

SWEET OMELET. No. 2. 
Four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
^nflla extract, one cupful of whipped cream. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, and gradually beat the flavoring and sugar into them. When well 
beaten add the yolks, and lastly, the whipped cream. Have a dish holding 
about one quart slightly buttered. Pour the mixture into this and bake just 
Jtvelve minutes. Serve the moraoat it is jxiken from the ovea 



CUSr^/ilfS, CHEATS AND DESSERTS. Jji? 

SALAD OF MIXED FRUITS. 
Put in the centre of a dish a pineapple properly pared, cored and sliced, yet 
retaining as near as practicable its original shape. Pesl, quarter and remove the 
seeds fi-otn four sweet oranges; arrange them in a border around the pineapple. 
Select fom- fine bananas, peel and cut into slices leng-thwise; airange these 
zigzag-feace fashion around the border of the dish. In the V-shaped spaces 
around the dish put tiny mounds of grapes of mLsed colors. When complete, 
the dish should look very appetizing. To half a pint of clear sugar sjrup a^d 
half an ounce of good brandy, pour over tlie fruit and serve. 

ORANGE COCOANUT SALAD. 

Feel and slice a dozen oranges, grata a cocoanut, and slice a pineapple, . 
fut alternate layers of each until the dish is full. Then pour over thera 
sweetened wine. Served with email cakes. 

When oranges are served whole, they should be peeled and prettily arranged 
in a Lrait dish. A small knife is best for this purpose. Break the skin fiom 
the stem into six or eight even parts, peel each section down half v/ay, and tuck 
the point in next to the orange. 

CRYSTALLIZED FRUIT. 

Pick out the finest of any kind of fruit, leave on their stalks, beat the whites 
of three eggs to. a stiff froth, lay the fruit in the beaten egg with the stalks 
upward, drain them and beat the part that drips off again; select them out, one 
by one, and dip them into a cup of finely powdered sugar; cover a pan with a 
sheet of fine paper, place the fruit inside of it, and put it in an oven that is cool- 
ing; when the icing on the fruit becomes firm, pile them on a dish and set them 
in a cool place. For this purpose, oranges or lemons should be carefully pared, 
and aJl the white inner skin removed that is possible, to prevent bitterness; then 
cut either -in thin horizontal shoes if lemons, or in quarters if oranges. For 
cherries, strawberries, currants, etc., choose the largest and finest, leaving stems 
out. Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet juicy pears may be 
treated in the same way, or look nicely when pared, leaving on the stems, and 
iced. Pineapples should be cut in thin slices, and these, again, divided into 
quarters. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Pare and slice the peaches just before sending to table. Cover the glass dish 
containing them to exclude the air as much as possible, as they soon change 



328 custards^S-^eams and desserts. 

color. Do not sugar them in the dish— they then become preserves, not fresh 
fruit. Pass the powdered sugar and cream with them. 

SNOW PYRAMID. 
Beat to a stiff foam the whites of halt a dozen eggs, add a small teacupful of 
currant jelly, and whip aU together again. Fill half full of cream as many 
saucers as you have g^uests, dropping in the centre of each saucer a tablespoon- 
ful of th^ beaten eggs and jelly in the shape of a pyramid. 

JELLY FRITTERS, 

Make a batter of three eggs, a pint of milk, and a pint bowl of wheat flour 
or more, beat it hght; put a tablespoon/ ul of lard or beef fat in a frjnng or 
omelet pan, add a saltspoonful of salt, making it boiUng hot, put in the batter by 
the large spoonful, not too close; when one side is a delicate brown, turn the 
other; when done, take them on to a dish with a d'oyley over it; put a dessert- 
epoonf ul of firm jelly or jajn on each, and serve. A very nice dessert. 

STEWED APPLES. No. i. 

Take a dozen green, tart apples, core and slice them, put into a sauce-pan 
with just enough water to cover them, cover the sa^lce•pan closely, and stew the 
apples until they are tender and clear; then take them out, put thern into a deep 
dish and cover them; add to the juice in the sauce- pan a cupful of loaf sugar for 
every twelve apples, and boil it half an hour, adding to the syrup a pinch of 
mace and a dozen whole cloves just ten minutes before taking from the fire; 
pour scalding hot over the apple, and set them in a cold place; eat ice cold with 
cream or boUed custard. 

STEWED APPLES. No. 2. 

Apples cooked in the following way look very pretty on a tea-table and are 
appreciated by the palate. . Select firm roimd greenings, pare neatly and cut in 
halves; place in a shallow stew-pan vdth sufficient boUing water to cover them 
and a cup of sugar to every six apples. Each half should cook on the bottom of 
the pan and be removed from the others so as not to injm-e its shape. Stew 
slowly until the pieces are very tender, remove to a glass dish carefully, boil the 
syrup a half hoitf longer, pour it over the apples and eat cold, A few pieces of 
lemon boiled in the syrup adds to the flavor. 

BAKED PEARS. 
Pare aiid core the pears, without dividing; place them In a pan, and fill up 
the orifice with" brown sugar; add a Uttle water, and let them bake until per- 
fectly tender. Nice vdth sweet cream or boiled custard. 



CUSTAUDS, CREAMS ANH DESSEATS. 329 

STEWED PEARS. 

Stewed pears with a thick syrup make a fine dessert dish accompanied with 
cake. 

Peel and cut them in halves, leaving the stems on, and scoop out the cores. 
Put them into a sauce-paa, placing them close together, with the stems upper- 
most. Pour over sufFicient water, a cup of sugar, a few whole cloves, and some 
sticks of cinnamon, a ta'blespoonful of lemon juice. Cover the stew-pan closely, 
to stew gently till the fruit is done, which will depend on She quality of the 
fruit. Then take out the fruit carefuUy, and arrainge it on a dish for serving. 
Boil down the syrup until quite thick; strain it and allow it to cool enough to 
eet it; then poui" it over the fruit. 

The juice could be colored by a few drops of liquid cochineal, or a few shoes 
of beets, while boiling. A teaspoonful of brandy adda much to the flavor 
Serve with eream or boiled custard. 

BAKED QUINCES. 

Take ripe quinces, pare and quarter them, cut out the seeds; then stew them 
in clear water until a straw will pierce them; put into a. baking dish with half a 
cupful of loaf sugar to every eight quinces; pour over them the liquor in which 
they were boiled, cover closely, and bake in the oven one hour; then take out 
the quinces and put them into a covered dish; return the syrup to the sauce-pan 
and boil twenty minutes; then pour over the quinces, and set them away to cooL 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. 

Stew a quart of ripe gooseberries in just enough water to cover them, when 
soft, rub them through a colander to remove the skins and seeds; while h©t stir 
into them a tablespoonful of melted butter, and a cupful of sugar. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs, and add that; whip all together until hght. FiE a large 
glass fruit dish, and spread on the top of the beaten whites mixed vsrith three 
tablespoonf uls of sugar. Apples or any tart fruit is nice made in this manner, 

rvIERINGUES OR KISSES. 
A coffee-cupful of fine, white sugar, the whites of six eggs; whisk the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, and with a wooden spoon stir in quickly the pounded 
sugar; and have some boards put m the oven thick enough to prevent the bottom 
of the meringues from acquiring too much color. Cut some strips of paper 
about two inches wide; place this paper on the board and drop a tablespoonful 
fitt a time of 'the mixture on the paper, taking care to let all the meringues be the 



330 CUSTARDS, CREAMS A}^D DESSERTS, 

fiame size. In dropping it from the spoon, give the mixture the form of aa 
egg, and keep the meringues about two inches apart from each other on the 
paper. Strew over them some sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for 
half an hour. As soon as they begin to color, remove them from the oven; take 
each sUp of paper by the two ends, and turn it gently on the table, and, with a 
small spoon take out the soft part of each meiingue. Spread some clean paper 
on the board, turn the meringues upside down, and put them into the oven to 
harden, and brown on the other side. When required for table, fill them with 
whipped cream, flavored with liquor or vanilla, and sweeten with pounded 
sugar. Join two of the meringues together, and pile them high' in the dish. -To 
vary their appearance, finely chopped almonds or currants may be strevra over 
them before the sugar is sprinkled over; and they may be garnished with any 
bright-colored preserve. Great expedition is necessary in making this sweet dish, 
as, if the meringues are not put into the oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are 
mixed, the former melts, and the mixture would run on the paper instead of 
keeping its egg-shape. The sweeter the meringues are made the crisper vail 
they be; but if there is not sufficient sugar mixed with them, they will most 
likely be tough. ' They are sometimes colored vdth cochineal; and, if kept well- 
covered in a dry place, wiU remain good for a month or six weeks. 

JELLY KISSES. 

Kisses, to be served for dessert at a large dinner, with other suitable confeo 
(denary, may be varied in this way: Having made the kisses, heap them in the 
shape of half an egg, placed upon stiff letter-paper lining the bottom of a thick 
baking-pan; put them in a moderate oven until the outside is a little hardened; 
then take one off carefully, take out the soft inside with the handle of a spoon, 
and put it back with the mixture, to make more; then lay the shell down. Take 
another and prepare it likewise; fill the shells vdth currant jelly or jam; join 
two together, cementing them with some of the mixture; so continue untO you 
have enough. Make kisses, cocoanut drops, and such like, the day before they 
are wanted. 

This recipe will make a fair-sized cake-basket full. It'adds much to their, 
beauty when served up to tint half of them pale pink, then unite whit« and 
pink. Serve on a high glass dish. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

Make a' " kiss '* mixture; add to it the white meat, grated, and finish as 
directed for " Kisses " 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 341 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, a coffee-cupful of white sugar, the whites of 
two eggs; blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste; add to them the sugar 
and the beaten whites of eggs; work the whole together with the back of a 
spoon, then roll the mixture in your hands in balls about the size of a nutmeg; 
3ust sugar over the top, lay them on a sheet of paper at least aa inch apart. 
Pake in a cool oven a light brown, 

Chocolate MACAROONS. 

Put three ounces of plain chocolate in a pan and melt on a slow fire; then 
work it to a thick paste with one pound of powdered sugar and the whites of 
three eggs; roll the mixture down to the thickness of about one-quarter of an 
inch; cut it in small, round pieces with a paste-cutter, either plain or scalloped; 
butter a pan slightly, and dust it with flour and sugar in equal quantities; place 
in it the pieces of p£^te or mixture, and bake in a hot but not too quick oven. 

LEMON JELLY. No. t.. 

Wash and prepare four calf's feet, place them in four quarts of water, and 
let them simmer gently five hours. At the expiration of this time take them 
out and pour the liquid into a vessel to cool; there should be iiearly a quart. 
When cold, remove every particle of fa), replace the jelly iato the preserving- 
kettle, and add one pound of loaf-sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons; when 
the sugar has dissolved, beat two eggs with their shells in one giU of water, 
which pour into the kettle, and boil five minutes, or until perfectly clear; then 
add one gill of Madeira wine, and strain through a flannel bag into any form 
you like. 

LEMON JELLY. No. 2, 

To a package of gelatine add a pint of cold water, the juice of four lemons 
and the rind of one; let it stand one hour, then add one pint of boiling water, a 
pinch of cinnamon, three cup? of sugar; let it all come to a boil; strain through 
a napkin into molds; set away to get cold. Nice poured over sliced bananas and 
oranges. 

WINE JELLY. 

One package of gelatine, one cupful of cold water soaked together two hours; 
add to this three cupf uls of sugar, the juice of three lemons and the grated rind 
of one. Now pour over this a quart of boiling water, and stir until dissolvefS 



332 CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 

then add a pint of sherry wine. Strain through a napkin, turn into molds 
dipped into cold water, and placed in the ice box for several hours. 

One good way to mold this jelly is to pour some of it into the mold, harden 
it a little, put in a layer of strawberries or raspberries, or any fresh fruit in 
season, pour in jelly to set them; afterthey have set,another layer of jelly, then 
another of berries, and so fill each mold, alternating with jelly and berries. 

CIDER JELLY. 

This can be made the same, by substituting clear, sweet cider in place of 

\\w wine. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Orange jelly is a great dehcacy, and not expensive. To make a large dishj 
get six oranges, two lemons, a two-ounce package of gelatine. Put the gelatine 
to soak in a pint of water, squeeze the orange- juice into a bowl, also the lemon 
juice, and grate one of the lemon' skins in with it. Put about two cupfuls of 
sugar with the gelatine, then stir in the orange- juice, and pour over all three 
pints of boiling v/ater, stirring constantly. When the gelatine is entirely dis- 
solved, strain through a napkin into molds or bowls wet with cold water, and 
Bet aside to harden. In three or four hours it will be ready for use, and will last 
several days. 

VARIEGATED JELLY. 

After dividing a box. of Cox's gelatine into halves, put each half into a bowl 
with half a cupful of cold water. Put three-quarters of an ounce or six sheets 
of pink gelatine into a third bowl containing three-fourths of a cupful of cold 
water. Cover the bowls to keep out the dust, and set them away for two hours. 
At the end of that time, add a pint of boiling water, a cupful of sugar, half a* 
pint of wine, and the juice of lemon to the pink gelatine, and after stirring till 
the gelatine is dissolved, strain the liquid through a napkin. Treat one of the 
other portions of the gelatine in the same way. Beat together the yolks of four 
eggs and half a cupful of sugar, and, after adding this mixture to the third 
portion of gelatine,8tir the new mixture into a pint and a third of boiling milk, 
coicained in a double boiler. Stir on the fire for three minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve, and flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Place in 
a deep pan two molds, each holding about three pints, and surround them with 
ice and water. Pour into these molds, in equal parts, the wine jelly which 
was made with the clear gelatine, and set it away to harden. When it haa 
become set, pour in the pink gelatine, which should have been set away in a 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND DESSERTS. 3J3 

place not cold enough to make it harden. After it has been transferred and has 
become hard, pour into the molds the mixture of eggs, sugar and gelatine 
which should be in a liquid state. Set the molds in an ice-chest for three or four 
hours. At serving time, dip them into tepid water to loosen the contents, and 
gently turn the jelly out upon flat dishes. 

The clear jelly may be made first and poured into molds, then the pink jelly, 
and finally the egg jelly. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Strawberries, pounded sugar; to every pint of juice allow half a package of 
Cox's gelatine. 

Pick the strawberries, put them into a pan, squeeze them well with a wooden 
spoon, add sufScient pounded sugar to sweeten them nicely, and let thiem remain 
for one hour, that the juice may be extracted; then add half a pint of water to' 
every pint of juice. Strain the strawberry juice and water through a napkin; 
measiu-e it, and to every pint allow half a package of Cox's gelatine, dissolved 
in a teadupful of water. Mix this with the juice; put the jelly into a mold, and 
set the mold on ice. A little lemon juice added to the strawberry juice improves 
the flavor of the jelly, if the fruit is very ripe; but it must be well strained 
before it is put vrith the other ingredients, or it will make the jeUy muddy. 
Delicious and beautifuL 

RECIPE FOR CHEESE CUSTARD. 

For three persons, 2 ounces of grated parmesan cheese ; the whites of 
3 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; a little pepper and salt and cayenne ; a little 
tnilk or cream to mix; bake for a quarter of an hour. 



ICE-CREAM. 
One pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, six ounces of Eugai*, and one table- 
. epoonful of corn-starch. Scald, but do not boiL Then put the whites of the two 
eggs into a pint of cream; whip it. Mix the milk and cream, flavor and freeze. 
One teaspoonf ul of vanilla or lemon is generally sufficient. 

The quantity, of course, can be increased to any amount desired, so long as 
the relative proportions of the different ingredients are observed. 

PURE ICE-CREAM. 

Genuine ice-cream is made of the pure sweet cream in. this proportion: Two 
quarts of cream, one pound of sugar; beat up, flavor, and freeze. 

For femily use, select one of the new patent freezers, as being more rapid 
and less laborious for small quantities than the old style turned entirely by hand. 
All conditions being perfect, those with crank and revolving dashers effect freez- 
ing in eight to fifteen minutes. 

FRUIT ICE-CREAM. 

Ingredients. — To every pint of fniit-juice allow one pint of cream; sugar to 
taste. 

Let the fruit be well ripened; pick it ofL the. stalks, and put- it into a large 
earthen pan. Stir it about with a wooden spoon, breaking it until it is well- 
mashed; theui with the back of the spoon, rub it through a hair-sieve. Sweeten 
it nicely with pounded sugar; whip the cream for a few minutes, add it to the 
fruit, and whisk the whole again for another five minutes. Put the mixture 
' into the freezer and freeze. Easpberry, strawberry, currant, and all fruit ice- 
creams, are made in the same manner. A little pounded sugar sprinkled over 
the fruit before it is mashed assists to extract the juice. Jn winter, when &esh 
froit is not obtainable, a little jam may be substituted for it; it should be melted 



ICE.CREAM AND JC£S. 335 

and worked through a sieve before being added to the whipped cream; and if 
the color should not be good, a little prepared cochineal may be put in to improve 
its appearance. 

In making berry flavoring for ice-cream, the milk should never be heated; 
the juice of the berries added to cold cream, or fresh, rich milk, mixed with cold 
cream, the juice put in just before freezing, or when partly frozen. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM. No. I. (Very fine.) 
Add four ounces of grated chocolate to a cupful of sweet milk, then mix it 
thoroughly to a quart of thick, sweet cream; no flavoring is required but vanilla. 
Sweeten with a cupful of sugar; beat again and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM. No. 2. 
Beat two eggs very light, and cream them with two cupfuls of sugar. Scald 
a pint of mUk and turn on by degrees, mixing well with the sugar and eggs. 
Stir in this half a cupful of grated chocolate; return to the Are, and heat imtil it 
thickens, stirring briskly; take off, and set aside to cool. When thoroughly 
cold, freeze. 

COCOANUT ICE-CREAM 
Onei quart of cream, one pint of milk, three eggs, one cupful and a half of 
sugar and one of prepared cocoanut, the rind and juice of a lemon. Beat 
together the eggs and grated 'lemon-rind, and put with the milk in the double 
bofler. Stir until the mixture begins to thicken. Add the cocoanut and put 
away to cool. When cooL add the sugar, lemon-juice and cr^m. Frreze. 

CUSTARD ICE-CREAM. 
Sweeten one quart ot cream or rich milk with half a potmd of sugar, and 
flavor to taste; put it over the fire in a farina-kettle; as soon as it begins to boil, 
stir into it a tablecpoonful of corn-starch or rice flour which has been previously 
mi.\ed smooth with a little milk; after it has boiled a few minutes, take it off 
the fire and stir in very gradually six eggs which have been beaten until thick; 
when quite cold, freeze it as ice-cream. 

STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM. 
Mix a cupful of sugar with a qucirt of ripe strawberries, let them stand heJf 
a day, then mash and strain them through a coarse towel, then add to the juice 
a full cupful of sugar, and when dissolved, beat in a quart of fresh, tliii > creani 
Raspberries, pineapple and other fruits made the same. 



336 ICE-CREAM AND ICES 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Make a rich,boiled custard; flavor with wine and vanilla; pour into a freezes . 
When half frozen, add pounded almonds, chopped citron and brandy, peaches 
or chopped raisins. Have the freezer half full of custard and fill up with the 
fruit. Mix well, and freeze again. Almost any kind of fruits that are pre- 
ferred may be substituted for the above, 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE-CREAM. 
Take two quarts of the richest cream, and add to it one pound of pulverized 
sugar, and four whole eggs; mix well together; place on the fire, stirring con- 
stantly, and just bring to boiling point; now remove immediately and continue 
to stir until nearly cold; flavor with a tablespoonful of extra<;t of vanilla j place 
in freezer and when half frozen, mix thoroughly into it one pound of preserved 
fruits, in equal parts of peaches, apricots, gages, cherries, pineapples, etc. ; all 
of these fruits are to be cut up into small pieces, and mixed well with the frozen 
cream. If you desire to mold this ice, sprinkle it with a little carmine, dissolved 
in a teaspoonful of water, with two drops of spu-its of ammonia; mix in thia 
color, so that it will be streaky, or in veins like marble. 

ICE-CREAM WITHOUT A FREEZER. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs very light, and add thereto four cupf uls of sugar, 
and stir well. Add to this, little by htUo, one quart of rich milk that has been 
heated almost to boiling, beating all the while; then put in the whites of eight 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Then boil the mixture in a pail set inside another 
containing hot water. Boil about fifteen minutes, or until it is as thick as a 
boiled custard, stirring steadily meanwhile. Pour into a bowl to cool. When 
quite cold, beat into it three pints of rich sweet cream and five teaspoOnfula. of 
vanilla, or such other flavoring as you prefer. Put it into a pail having a close- 
fitting cover, and pack in pounded ice and salt — rock salt, not the common kind, 
— about three-fourths ice and one-fourth salt. When packed, before putting 
the ice on top of the cover, beat the custard as you would batter, for five minutes 
steady; then put on the cover and put the ice and salt over it, and cover the 
whole vfith a thick mat, blanket or carpet, and let it stand for an hour. Then 
carefully uncover and scrape from the bottom and sides of the pail the thick 
coating of frozen custard, making every particle clear, and beat again very 
hard, untU the custard is a smooth, half -congealed paste. Do this thoroughly. 
Put on the cover, ice, salt and blanket, and leave it for five or six hours u?e» 

plemsbing the ice and salt if necessary. 

€bmmon Setue in the Household, . 



leB-eSEAM AND /CMS. 337 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffee-cupfuls of /sugar, one pint of 
water, and the whites of thi-ee eggs beaten to a stiff froth; break the peaches 
rather fine and stir all the ingi-edients together; freeze the whole into form.. 

Frozen fruits of any kind can be made the same way; the fruit should be 
mashed to a smooth pulp, but not thinned too much. In freezing, care should 
be taken to prevent its getting lumpy. 

FROZEN FRUITS. 
The above recipe, increasing the quantity of peaches, raspberries or whatever 
fruit you may use, and adding a small amount of rich cream, make fine frozen 
fruits. In freezing, you must be especially cai'ef ul to prevent its getting lumpy. 

LEMON ICE. 

The juice of six lemons and the grated rind of three, a large sweet orange, 
juice and rind; squeeze out all the juice, and steep in it the rind of orange and 
lemons a couple of hours; then squeeze and strain through a towel, add a pmt 
of water and two cupfuls of sugar. Stu* imtil dissolved, turn into- a freezer, 
then proceed as for ice-cream, letting it stand longer, two or three hours. 

When fruit jellies are used, gently heat the water sufficiently to melt them; 
then cool and freeze. Other flavors may be made in this manner, varying the 
flavoring to taste. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Grate two pineapples and mix with two quarts of water, and a pint of sugar; 
add the juice of two lemons, and the beaten whites of four eggs. Place in a 
freezer and freeze. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET. 

Two quarts of raspberries, one cupful of sugar, one pint and a half of water, 
the juice of a large lemon, one tablespoonful of gelatine. Mash the berries and 
sugar together and let them stand two hours. Soak the gelatine in cold water 
to cover. Add one pint of the water to the berries, and strain. Dissolve the 
gelatine, in half a pint of boiling water, ;add this to the strained mixttu'e and 



ORANGE-WATER ICE. 

Add a tablespoonful of gelatine to one gill of water; let it stand twenty minutes 
and add half a pint of tXHling water; stir until dissolved and add four oimces of 



jjS JCE-CREAM AND ICES. 

powdered sugar, the strained juice of six oranges, and cold water enough to 
make a full quart in aU. Stir until the sugar is dissolved; pour into the freezing 
can and freeze (see " Lemon Ice.") 

ALMOND ICE. 

Two pints of milk, eight ounces of cream, two ounces of orange-flower water, 
eight otmces of sweet almonds, four ounces of bitter almonds; poimd all in a 
marble mortar, pouring, in, from time to time, a few drops of water; when 
thoroughly pounded add the orange-flower water and half of the milk; pass 
this, tightly squeezed, through a cloth ; boil the rest of the milk with the 
cream, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon; as soon as it is thick 
enough, pour in the almond milk; give it one hoiUng, take it off and let it cool 
in a bowl or pitcher, before pouring it into the mold for freezing. 

CURRANT ICE. 

A refreshing ice is made of currants or raspberries, or equal portions of each. 
Squeeze enough fruit in a jelly -bag to make a pint of juice; add a pint each of 
the water and sugar; pour the whole, boiling hot, on to three whites of eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, and whip the mixture thoroughly. When cool, freeze in 
the usual manner. Part red raspberry juice is a much finer flavor. 

Any juigr fruit may be prepared in this manner. 






1 




It depends as much upon the judgment of the cook as on the materials used 
to make a good pudding. Everything should be the "best in the'way of materials, 
and a proper attention to the rules, with some practice, will ensure success. 

Puddings are either boiled, baked, or steamed; if boUed, the materials should 
be well worked together, put into a thick cloth, bag, previously dipped in hot 
water, wringing it slightly, and. dredging the inside thickly with flour; tie it 
firmly, allowing room for it to swellj drop it into a kettle of boiling water, with 
a smaU plate or saucer in the bottom to keep it from sticking to the kettle. It 
should, iiot cease boiling one moment from the time it is put in until taken outj 
and the pot must be tightly covered, and the cover not removed except when 
necessary to add water from the boiling tea-kettle when the water is getting 
low. ' When done, dip immediately in cold water and turn out. " This should be 
done just before placing on the table. 

Or, butter a tin pudding-mold or an earthen bowl; close it tight so that water 
cannot penetrate; drop it into boiUng water and boil steadily the required time 
If a bowl is used it should be well buttered, and not quite filled with the pud 
ding, allo^ving room for it to swell; then a cloth ''wet in hot water, slightly 
wringing it, then floured on the inner side, and tied over the bowl, meeting 
under the bottom. 

To steam a pudding, put it into a tin pan or earthen dish; tie a cloth over the 
top, first dredging it in flour, and set it into a steamer. Cover the steamer 
closely; allow a little.longer time than you do for boiling. 

Molds or basins for baking, steaming or boiling should be well buttered before 
the mixture is put into them. '• Allow a little longer time for steaming than for 
boiling. 

PiunpljniSS boiled the same way, put into little separate cloths. 

Batter puddings should be smoothly mixed and free from lumps. To enson 



34*5 BUUPLINGS AND FUDDINGX 

this, first mix the flour with a very small proportion of milk, the yolks of the 
eggs and sugar thoroughly beaten together, and added to this; then add the 
remainder of the milk by degrees, then the seasoning, then the beaten whites of 
eggs last. Much success in jnaking this kind of pudding iJepends upon a strict 
observance of this rule; for, although the materials may "be go^od, if the eggs 
are put into the milk before they are mixed with the flour, there will be a cus- 
tard at the top and a soft dough at the bottom of your dish. 

All sweet puddings require a liiile salt to prevent insipidity and to draw out| 

the flavor of^the severaHngredients, but a grain too much will epoH any pudding.^ 

In puddings where wine, brandy, cider, lemon-juice or any acid is used, it 

should be stirred in last, and gradually, or it is apt to curdle the milk or eggs. 

In making custard puddings (puddings made with eggs and mUk), the yolk 
of the eggs and sugar should be thoroughly beaten together before any of the 
milk or seasoning is added, and the beaten whites of egg last. 

In making puddings of bread, rice, sago, tapioca, etc., the eggs should be 
beaten very light, and mixed with a portion of the milk, before adding them to 
the other ingredients. If the eggs are mixed with the mUk, without having 
been thus beaten, the milk will be absorbed by the bread, rice, sago, tapioca, 
etc., without rendering them light. 

The freshness of all puddilig ingredients is of much importance, as one bad 
article will taint the whole mixture. 

When the freshness of eggs is doubtful, break eacn one separately in a cup, 
before mixing them all together. Should there be a bad one amongst them, it 
can be thrown away; whereas, if mixed with the good ones, the entire quantity 
would be spoiled. The yolks and whites beaten separately make the articles 
they a^re put into much lighter. 

Eaisins and dried fruits for puddings should be carefully picked, and, in 
many cases, stoned. Currants should be well- washed, pressed in a cloth, and 
placed on a dish before the fire to get thoroughly dry; they shotild then be picked 
carefully over, and every piece of grit or stone removied from amongst them. 
To plump them, some cooks pour boiling water over them, and then dry them 
before the fire. 

Many baked-pudding recipes are quite as good boiled, As a safe rule, boil 
the pudding twice as long as you would reqiure to bake it; and remember that a 
boiling pudding should never be touched after it is once put on the stove; a jar 
of the kettle destroys the lightness of the pudding. If the water boils down and 
more must be added, it must be doneso carefully that the mold wdl not hit the 
side of the kettle, and it must not be allowed to stop boiling for ah instant. 



DUMPLINGS AND Pt/DD/NGS. 341 

Batter should never stick to the knife when it is sent to the table; it wiU do 
this both when a less than sufficient number of eggs is mixed with it and when 
it is not enough cooked; about four eggs to the half pound of flour will make it 
firm enough to cut smoothly. 

When baked or boiled puddings are sufficiently soUd, turn them out of the 
dish they were baked in, bottom uppermost, and strew over them finely sifted 
sugar. 

When pastry or baked puddings are not done through, and yet the outside is 
sufficiently brown, cover them over with a piece of white paper untU thoroughly 
cooked; this prevents them from getting burnt. 

TO CLEAN CURRANTS. 
Put them in a sieve or colander, and sprinkle them thickly with flour; rub 
them well until they are separated, and the flour, grit and fine stems have passed 
through the strainer. Place the strainer and cmrants in a pan of water and 
wash thoroughly; then lift the strainer and currants together, and change the 
water until it is clear. Dry the currants between clean towels. It hardens 
them to dry in an oven. 

TO CHOP SUET. 
Break or cut in small pieces, sprinkle with sifted flour, and chop in a cold 
place to keep it from becoming sticky and soft. 

TO STONE RAISINS. 
Put them in a dish and pour boiling water over them; cover and let them 
remain in it ten minutes; it will soften so that by rubbing each raisin between 
the thumb and finger, the seeds will come out clean; then they are ready for 
cutting or chopping if roqxiired. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
Make a rich biscuit dough, the same as soda or baking-powder biscuit, only 
adding a little more shortenuig. Take a piece of dough out on the molding- 
board, roU out almost as thin as pie-crust; then cut into square pieces large 
enough to cover an apple. Put into the middle of each piece two apple halves 
that have been pared and cored; sprinkle on a spoonful of sugar and a pinch of 
ground cinnamon, timi the ends of the dough over the apple, and lap them 
tight. Lay the dumplings in a dripping-pan well buttered, the smooth side 
upward. When the pans are filled, put a small piece of butter on the top of 
each, sprinkle over a large handful of sugar, turn in a cupful of boiling water, 



342 DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 

then place in a moaerate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Baste with the 
liquor once while baMng. Serve with pudding-sauce or cream and sugar. 

BOILED APPLE. DUMPLINGS. 

The same recipe as the above, with, the exception that they are put into a 
email coarse cloth well-floured after being dipped in hot water. Each cloth to 
be tied securely, but leaving room enough for the dumpling to swell.. Put them 
in a pot of boiling water and boil, three-quarters of an hour. Serve with sweet 
sauce. Peaches" and other fruits used in the same manner. 

BOILED RICE DUMPLINGS^ CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Boil half a pound of rice; drain, and mash it moderately fine Add to itiwo 
ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, half a saltspoonful of mixed ground 
spice, salt and the yolks of two eggs. Moisten a trifle with a tablespoonful or 
two of cream. With floured hands shape the mixture into balls, and tie them 
in floiu'ed pudding-cloths. i Steam or boil forty minutes, and send to table with 
a custard sauce made as follows: 

.Mix together four ounces of sugar and two ounces of butter (slightly 
warmed). Beat together the yolks of- two eggs and a gill pf cream; mix and 
pom" the sauce in a double sauce-pan; set this in a pan of hot water, and whisk 
thoroughly three minutes. Set the sauce-pan in cold water and whisk until the 
sauce is cooled. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. No. i. 

One pint bowl of fine bread-crumbs, one-half cupful of beef suet chopped fine, 
the whites and yoHcs of four eggs beaten separately and very light, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar sifted into half a cupful of flom', .half a teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little water, and a teaspoonfiU of salt. Wet it aH together 
with milk enough to make a stiff paste. Flour your hands and make into balls. 
Tie up in separate cloths that have been wrung out in hot water, and floured 
inside; leave room, v/hen tying, for them to swell. Drop them into boiling 
water and boil about three-quarters of an hour. Serve hoi, with wine sauce, 
or syrup and butter. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. No. 2. 
One cupful of suet chopped fine, one cupful of grated English muffins or 
bread, one cupful of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking-powder, half a cupful of 
sugar, two eggs, one pint of milk, a large pinch of salt. Sift together powdei 
end flour, add the beaten eggs, grated muffins, sugar, suet and milk; form into 
smooth batter, which drop by tablespoonf uls ?Qto a pint of boiling milk, three 



OUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS, 54^ 

or tour at a time; when done, dish, and pour over them tb^ mfllr they werai 
boiled in. A Danish dish; very godO.. 

PRESERVE DUMPLINGS. 
Preserved peaches, plums, quinces, cherries or any other sweetmeat; make a 
light crust, and roll a small piece of moderate thickness and fill with the fruit 
in quantity to make the size of a peach dumpling; tie eact one in a dumpling 
doth, well floured inside, drop them into hot water, and boil half an hour: when 
done, remove the cloth, send to table hot, and eat with cream. 

OXFORD DUMPLINGS. 
Beat untfl quite light one tablespoonful of sugar and the yolks of three eggs, 
add half a cupful of finely chopped suet, half a cupful of English currants, one 
cupful of sifted flour, in which there has been sifted, a heaping teaspoonful of 
baking-powder, a little nutmeg, one teaspoonful of salt, and lastly, the beaten 
whites of the eggs; flour your hands and make it into balls the size of an eggi 

boil in separate cloths one hour or more. Serve with wine sauce. 

# 

LEMON DUMPLINGS. 
Mix together a pint of grated bread-crumbs, half a cupful of chopped suet, 
half a cupful of moist sugar, a Uttle salt, and a small tablespoonful of flour, add- 
ing the grated rind of a lemon. Moisten it all with the whites and yolks of two 
eggs, ivell beaten, and the juice of the lemon, strained. Stir it aU well together, 
and put the mixture into small cups well buttered; tie them down with a cloth 
dipped in flour, and boil three-quarters of an hour. Turn them out oi a dish,* 
ntrew sifted sugar over them, and serve with wine sauce. 

BOILED APPLE PUFFETS. 
Three eggs, one pint of milk, a httle salt, sufQcient flour to thicken as wafi9e< 
batter; one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Fill teacups alter- 
nately with a layer of batter, and then of apples chopped fine. Steam one 
hour. Serve hot with flavored cream and sugar. You can substitute any fresh 
fruit or jams your taste prefers. 

COMMON BATTER. 

For boiled pudding, frittei-s, etc., is made with one cupful of milk, a pinch of 

salt, two eggs, one tablespoonful of ;nelted butter, one cupful of flour, and a 

" small teaspoonful of baking-powder. . Sift the flour, powder and salt together, 

add the melted butter, the eggs, well beaten, and the inilk; mix into a veij 

smooth battel', a little thicker than for griddle-cakes., 



344 DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 
Turn boiling water on to three-fourths of a pound of sweet abnonds; let it 
remain until the skin comes off easily; rub with a dry cloth; when dry, pound 
fine with one large spoonful of rose-water; beat six eggs to a stifiE froth with 
three spoonfuls of fine white sugar; mix with one quart of milk, three spoonfuls 
of pounded crackers, four ounces of melted butter, and the same of citron cut 
into bits; add almonds, stir all together, and bake in a small pudding-dish with 
a lining and rim of pastry. This pudding is best when cold. It will bake in 
half an hour in a quick oven. 

APPLE PUDDING, BAKED. 
Stir two tablespoonfuls of butter and half a cupful of sugar to a cream; stir 
into this the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon, and half a dozen sound, green, tart apples, grated. Now stir in the four 
beaten whites of the eggs, season with cinnamon or nutmeg; bake. To be 
served cold with cream. 

• 

BOILED APPLE PUDDING. 

Take three eggs, three apples, a quarter of a pound of bread^nxunbs, one 
lemon, three ounces of sugar, three ounces of currants, half a wine-glassful of 
wine, nutmeg butter and sugar for sauce. Pare, core and mince the apple and 
mix with the bread-crumbs, nutmeg grated, sugar, currants, the juice of the 
lemon, and half the rind grated. Beat the eggs well, moisten the mixture with 
these and beat all together, adding the wine last; put the pudding in a but- 
tered mold, tie it down with a cloth; boil one hour and a half, and serv^ 
with sweet sauce. 

BIRDS' NEST PUDDING. 

Oore and peel eight apples, put in a dish, fill the places from which the cores 
have been taken with sugar and a little grated nutmeg; cover and bake. Beat 
the yolks of four eggs light, add two teacupfuls of flour, with three even tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder sifted with it, one pint of milk with a teaspoonful 
of salt; then add the whites 61 the eggs well beaten, pour over the apples, and 
bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve vidth sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. NO. X. 
Butter the sides and bottom of a deep pudding-dish, then butter thin slices of' 
bread, sprinkle thickly with sugar, a little cinnamon, chopped apple, or any f ruiti 
youL prefer between each slice, until your dish, is fulL Beat up two eggs, add a 



DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 345 

tablespoonful of sifted flour; stir with this three cupf ols of milk and a little salt; 
pour this over the bread, let it stand one hour and then bake slowly, with a cover 
on, three-quarters of an hour; then take the cover off and brown. Serve with 
wine and lemon sauce. 

Pie plant, cut up in small pieces with plenty of sugar, is fine made ic this 
Qlanner. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. No. 2. 

Place a layer of stale bread, rolled fine, in the bottom of a pudding dish, then 
8 layer of any kind of fruit; sprinkle on a little sugar, then another layer of 
bread-crumbs and of fruit; and so on imtil the dish is full, the top layer being 
crumbs. Make a custard as for pies, add a pint of milk, and mix. Pour it over 
the top of the pudding, and bake until the fruit is cooked. 

Stale cake, crumbed fine, in place of bread, is an improvement. 

COLD BERRY PUDDING. 

Take rather stale bread— baker's bread or light home-made — cut in thin slices, 
and spread with butter. Add a very Uttle water and a little sugar to one quart 
or more of huckleberries and blackberries, or the former alone. Stew a few 
minutes imtil juicy; put a layer of buttered bread in your buttered pudding-; 
dish, then a layer of stewed berries while hot, and so on until full; lastly, a cov. 
ering of stewed berries. It may be improved with a rather soft frosting over 
the top. To be eaten cold with thick cream and sugar. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put one teacupful of tapioca and one teaspoonful of salt into one pint and a 
half of water, and let it stand several hours where it ^lill be quite warm, but 
not cook; peel six tart apples, take out the cores, fill them with sugar, in which 
is grated a Uttle nutmeg and lemon-peel, and put them in a pudding-dish; over 
these pour the tapioca, first mixinG with it one teaspoonful of melted butter and 
a cupful of cold milk, and haK a cupful of sugar; bake one hour; eat with sauce. 

When fresh fruits are in season, this pudding is exceedingly nice, with dam- 
gens, plums, red currants, gooseberries, or apples; when made with these, the 
pudding must be thickly sprinkled over with sifted sugar. 

Canned or fresh peaches may be used in place of apples in the same manner, 
moistening the tapioca with the juice of the canned peaches in place of the cold 
frtilir- Very nico when quite cool to serve with sugar and cream. 



J46 DVMPUNGS AND fUDDrtfOS, 

APPLE AND BROWN-BREAD PUDDING. 

Take a pint of brown bread-crumbs, a pint bowl of chopped apples, mix; add 
t*ro-thirds of a cupful of finely chopped suet, a cupful of raisins, one egg, a 
tablespoonful of flour, half a teaspoonf ul of salt. Mix with half a pint of milk, 
and boil in buttered molds about two hours. Serve with sauce flavored with 
lemon. 

APPLE-PUFF PUDDING. 

Put half a pound of flour into a basin, sprinkle in a little salt, stir in gradu- 
ally a pint of milk; when quite smooth add three eggs; butter a pie-dish, pour 
in the batter; take three-quarters of a pound of apples, seed and cut in ^ces, 
and put in the batter; place bits of butter over the top; bake three-quarters of 
an hour; when done, sprinkle sugar over the top and serve hot. 

PLAIN BREAD PUDDING, BAKED. 

Break up about a pint of stale bread after cutting oft the crust ; pour over it 
a quart of boiling milk; add to this a piece of butter the size of a small egg; 
cover the dish tight and let it stand imtil cool; then with a spoon mash it until 
fine, adding a teaspoonf ul of cinnamon, and one of nutmeg grated, half a cupful 
of sugar, and one quarter of a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little hot wafer. 
Beat up four eggs very hght, and add last. Turn all into a well-buttered 
pudding-dish, and bake three-quai'ters of an hour. Serve it warm with hard 
sauce. 

This recipe may be steamed or boiled; very nice either way. 

SUPERIOR BREAD PUDDINGS. 
One and one-half cupfuls of white sugar; two cupfuls of fine, dry bread-- 
crumbs, five eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, vanilla, rose-water or lemon 
flavoring, one quart of fresh, rich milk, and half a cupful of jelly or jam. Eub 
the butter into a cupful of sugar; beat the yolks very light, and stir these 
together to a cream. The bread-crumbs soaked in milk come next, then the 
flavoring. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish— a large one, and but two-thirds 
full— until the custard is " set." Draw to the mouth of the oven, spread over 
with jam or other nice fruit conserve. Cover this with a meringue made Of the 
whipped whites and half a cupful of sugar. Shut the oven, and bake until the 
meringue begins to color. Eat cold, with cream. In strawberry season, substi- 
tnie a pint of fresh fruit for preserves. It is then delicious. Serve with any 
warm sauce. 



J3UMPLJNGS AND PUDDINGS. 347 

BOILEt) BREAD PUDDINIG. 

To one quart of bread-crumbs, soaked soft iu atiup of hot milk, add one cup- 

M of molasses, one cupful of fruit, or chopped raisins, one teaspoonful each of 

spices,, one tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 8od£^ 

about a cupful of floux sifted; boil or steam three hours. Serve with sweet sauce, 

ALMOND PUDDING No 1. 
Put two quarts of milk into a double boiler; sbr into it two heaping table, 
spoonfuls of sifted flour that has been stirred to a cream, jvith a little of the milk. 
When it boils, care should be taken that it does not bum; when cooked, take 
from the flre, and let it cool. Take the skins off from' two pounds of sweet 
almonds, pound them fine, stir them into the milk; add a teaspoonful of salt, a 
cupful of sugar, flavoring, and six well-beaten eggs, the yolks and whites beaten 
separately. Put bits ot outter over the top. Bake one hour. A gill of 
brandy or wine improves it. 

ALMOND PUDDING. Mo. 2, 

Steep four ounces of crumbs of bread, shced, ia one and one-half pints of 
cream, or grate the bread; then beat half a pound of blanched almonds very 
fine till they become a paste, with two teaspoonfuls of orange-flower water; 
beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four; mix all well together; 
put in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir in three or four ounces of 
melted butter; put it over the fire, stirring it until it is thick; lay a sheet of paper 
at the bottom of a dish,, and pour in the ingredients; bake half an hour. Use 
the remaining foiu: whites of egg for a meringue for the top. 

BATTER PUDDING, BAKED. 
Four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, one pint of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, two cupfuls of sifted flour. 
Put the whites of the eggs in last. '" Bake in an eai-then dish that can be set on 
the table. Bake forty-five minutes; serve with rich sauce. 

BOILED BATTER PUDDING- 
Sift together a pint of flour and a teaspoonful of baking-powder into a deep 
dish, sprinkle in a Uttle salt, adding also a tablespoonful of melted butter. Stir 
into this gradually a pint of milk; when quite smooth, add four eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately. Now add enough more flour to make a very stiff 
batter. If liked, any kind of fruit may be stirred iuto this; a pint of berries or 



348 DUMPLINGS AlHD PUDDINGS. 

eliced fruit. Boil two hours. Serve with cream and sugar, wine sauce oi 
any sweet sauce. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. No. i. 
Take five tablespoonfuls out of a quart of cream qr rich milk, and mix them 
vnth two krge spoonfuls of fine flour. Set the rest of the milk to boil, flavoring 
it with bitter elmonds broken up. When it has boiled hard, take it off, strain 
it, and stir it m the cold milk and flour. Set it away to cool, and beat well 
raght yolks and four whites of eggs; add them to the milk, and stir in, at the 
last, a ^is.m of brandy or white wine, a teaspoonful of powdered nutmeg, and 
half a capful of sugar. Butter a large bowl or mold; pour in the misture; tie a 
cloth tightly over it; put it into a pot of boiUng water, and boil it two hours, re- 
plenishing the pot with hot water from a tea-kettle. When the pudding is done, 
let it get cool before you tmn it out. Tflai it with butter and sugar stirred together 
to a cream and flavored with lemon- juice or orange. 

CUSTARD PUDDING, No. 2. 

Pour one quart of milk in a deep pan, aftd let tne pan stand in a kettle of 
boihng water, while you beat to a cream eight eggs and six tablespoonfuls of 
fine sugar and a teaspoon of flour; then stir the eggs and sugar into the milk, 
and continue stining until it begins to thicken; then remove the pan from the 
boilmg water, scrape down the sides, stir to the bottom until it begins to cool, 
add a tablespoonf ul of peach water, or any other flavor you mav prefer, pour 
into little cups, and when cold, serve. 

CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

The recipe for " Common Custard," with the addition of chocolate, grated 
banana, or pineapple or cocoanut, makes successfully those different kinds of 
puddings 

APPLE CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

Put a quart of pared and quartered apples into a yew-pan, with half a cupful 
of water, and cook them until they are soft. Eemove from the fire, and add 
half a cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter and the grated rind and the 
juice of a lemon. Have ready mixed two cupfuls of grated bread-crumbs, and 
two {ablespoonfuls of floiur; add this also to the apple mixture, after which, stir 
in two well-beaten eggs. Turn all into a well-buttered pudding-dish, and bake 
forty-five nfunutes in a moderate oven. Sarva with sugar and cream or hard 
•weetsau.o» 



DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS., 349 

CREAM PUDDING?. 
Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs well, and stir them into one pint of 
llotir, one pint of milk, a little salt, and a bit of soda, dissolved in a little water, 
the grated rind of a lemon, and three spoonfuls of sugar; just before baking, 
etir in one pint of cream, and bake in a buttered dish. Eat with cfeam.^ 

CREAM MERINGUE PUDDING. 
Stir to a cream half a cupful of sugar with the white of one egg and the yolks 
of four. Add one quart of milk and mix thoroughly. Put four tablespoonfuls 
of flour and a teaspoonful of salt into another dish, and pour Jialf a cupful of the 
milk and egg mixture upon them, and beat very jsmooth, gradually adding 
the rest of the milk and egg mixture. Turn this aH into a double boiler siu:- 
rounded by boiling water; stir this until smooth and thick like cream^ or about 
fifteen minutes; then add vanilla or other extract. Rub all through a strainer 
into a well-buttered pudding-dish. Now beat the remaining three whites of 
^gs to a stiff froth, and gradually add three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
and spread roughly over the pudding. Ooofc for twenty .minutes m&^ioderate 
oven. Serve cold.| 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING. 
Beserve half a cupful of mUk from ia-quart, and put the remainder on the 
stove in a double boiler. Mix four large tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, and a 
teaspoonful of salt, with the half -cupful of milk; then stir the mixture into the 
boiling mUk, and beat well for two minutes. Cover the boiler and cook the 
pudding for twelve minutes; then pour it into a pudding-dish, and .<?etin a cool 
place f^ r half an hour. When the time for serving comes, make a sauce in this 
manner: Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff, diy froth, and beat Into this two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. As soon as the sugar has been weU mixed 
with the whites, add half of a large tumbler of currant jelly, or any other bright 
jelly, or any kind of preserved fruit may be used. If you prefer, serve sugar 
and cream with the pudding instead of a sauce. 

COLD FRUIT PUDDING- 
Throw into a pint of new milk the thin rind of a lemon, heat it slowly by the 
Bide of the fire, and keep at the boiling point Until strongly flavored. Sprinkle 
in a small ninch of salt, and three-quarters of an ounce of the finest ismglass or 
gelatine. When dissolved, strain througli muslin into a clean sauce-pan with 
five ounces of powdered sugar and half a pint of rich cream. Give the whole 



one boll, stir it Inisklf and add by degrees tha woll-beaten joQcb of five eggs. 
Next thicken the mixture as a custard over a slow fire, taking <^ra not to keep 
it over the Ore a moment longer than necessary; pour it into a baedn and flavor 
with orange-fiower water or vaaiUa. Stir until nearly cold, then add two ounces 
of citron cut in thin strips and two ounces of candied dierrio& Pour into a 
buttered mold. For sauce use any kind of fruit syrup. 

CUBAN PUDDING. 

Crumble a pound of sponge cakes, an equal quantity, ot lees if preferred, of 
oocoanut, grated in a basin. Pour over two pints of rich cream previously 
sweetened with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar and brought to the boiling 
point. Cover the basin, and when the cream is soaked up stir in it eight well- 
beaten eggs. Butter a mold, arrange four or five ounces of preserved ginger 
around it, pour in the pudding carefully, and tie it down with a cloth. Steam 
or boil dowly for an hour and a half; serve with the syrup from the ginger, 
which should be warmed and poured over the pudding. 

CRACKER PUDDING 

Of raspberries, may be made of one large teacupfiit of cracker-crumb% one 
quart of mOk, one spoonful of floiur, a pinch of salt, the yolks of three eggs, one 
whole e^ and half a cupful of sugar. Flavor with van£ll% adding a little pjncb 
of salt. Bake in a moderate oven. When done, spread over the top, while hot, 
a pint of weU-sugared raspberries. Then beat the whites of the three eggs very 
etiff, with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little lemon extract, or whatever one 
prefers. Spread this over the berries, and bake a light brown. Serve with 
truit sauce made of raspberries. 

BAKED CORN-MEAL PUDDING. WITHOUT EGGS. 

Take a lar^ cupful of yellow meal, and a teacupf ul of cooking molasses, and 
beat them well together; then add to them a quart of boiling mlD;, some salt 
and a large tablespoonful of powdered ginger, add a cupful of finely chopped 
Buet ox a piece of butter the size of an egg. Butter a brown earthen pan, and 
tarn the pudding in, let it stand until it thickens; then as you put it into the 
even, turn over it a pint of cold niulk, bat do not stir it, as this makes the jeDy. - 
Bake three hours. Serve warn with hard sauca 

This recipe has been handed down tdm mother to daoj^ter tat manj ; 
took in a New Bni^d family. 



DUMSLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 35 1 

BAKED CORN-MEAL PUDDING, WITH EGGS 

One small cupful of Indiaii meal, one-half cupful of wheat flour stirred together 
with cold milk. Scald one pint of milk, and stir the mixture in it and cook until 
thick; then thin -with cold milk to the consistency of batter, not very thick; add 
half a cupful of sugar, half a cupful of molasses, two eggs, two tablespoonf uls 
of butter, a little salt, a tablespoonful of mixed cinnamon and nutmeg, two- 
thirds of a teaspoonful of soda added just before puttmg it into the oven. Bake 
two hours. After baking it half an hour, stir it up thoroughly, then finish 
baking. 

Serve it up hot, eat it with wine sauce, or with butter and syrup. 

BOILED CORN-MEAL PUDDING. 
Warm a pint of molasses and a pint of milk, stir well together; beat four eggs, 
and stir gradually into molasses and milk; add a cupful of beef suet chopped 
fine, or half a cupful of butter, and corn-meal sufficient to make a thick batter; 
add a teaspoonful of pulverized cinnamon, the same of nutmeg, a teaspoonful 
of soda, one of salt, and stir all together thoroughly; dip a clott into boiling 
water, shake, flour a little, turn in the mixture, tie up, leaving room for the 
pudding to swell, and boil three hours; serve hot with sauce made of drawn 
butter, wine and nutmeg. 

BOILED CORN-MEAL PUDDING, WITHOUT EGGS. 

To one quart of boiling milk, stir in a pint and. a half of Indian meal, well' 
sifted, a teaspoonful of salt, a cupful of molasses, half a cupf ill of chopped suet, 
and a teaspoonful of dissolved soda; tie it up tight in a cloth, allowing room for 
it to swell, and boil f oiu- hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 

CORN-MEAL PUFFS, 
Into one quart of boiling milk stir eight tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, four 
tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar, and a teaspoonf vd of nutmeg; let the. whole 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly to prevent its adhering to the saucepan; 
then remove it from the fire, and when it has become cool stir into it six eggs, 
beaten as light as possible; mix well, and pour the mixture into buttered teacups, 
nearly filling them; bake in a moderate oven half an hour; serve with lemon 

sauce. 

DELICATE INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, two heaping tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, four of sugar, 
ana o£ butter, three ^ge, one teaspoonful of salt BoU miik in douWe boileii 



352 DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 

sprinkle the meal into it, stirring all the while; cook twelve minutes, stirring 
often. Beat together the eggs, salt, sugar and one-half teaspoonf ul of ginger. 
Stir the butter into the meal and milk. Pour this gradually over the egg mix- 
tm-e. Bake slowly one hour. Serve with sauce of heated syrup and butter. 

— Miuia Parka, 
COTTAGE PUDDING. 
One heaping pint of flour, half a cupful of sugar, one cupful of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, one tablespoonf ul of butter, two teaspooui 
fuls of cream of tartar rubbed dry in the flour; flavor with nutmeg; bake in a 
iKofferaie oven; cut in slices and serve warm with wine or brandy sauce, or 
Bweet sugar sauce. 

FRENCH COCOANUT PUDDING. No. I. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls of com-starch, the yolks of four eggs, 
half a cupful of sugar and a little salt; put part of the milk, salt and sugar on 
the stove and let it boil; dissolve the com-starch in the rest of the milk; stir into 
the milk, and while boiling add the yolks and a cupful of grated chocolate. 
Flavor vrith vanilla. 

Frosting. — The whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff fix)th, half a cupful of 
sugar; flavor with lemon; spread it on the pudding, and put it into the oven to 
brown, saving a little of the frosting to moisten the top; then put on grated 
oocoanut to give it the appearance of snow-flake. 

COCOAKUT PUDDING. No. 2. 
Half a pound of grated cocoaaut. Then mix with it lialf a cupful of stale 
sponge-cake, crumbled fine. Stir together imtil very light half a cupful of butter 
.and one of sugar, add a cojfee-cupful of rich milk or cream. Beat six eggs very 
light, and stir them gradually into the butter and sugar in turn, vdth the grated 
cocoanut. Having stirred the whole very hard, add two teaspoonfuls of variilla; 
stir again, put into a buttered dish and bake until set, or about three-quarters of 
an hour. Three of the whites of the eggs could be left out for a meringue on 
the top of the pudding. Most excellent. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. No. 3. 
A cup of grated cocoanut put into the recipes of "Cracker Pudding "and 
" Bread Pudding," makes good cocoanut pudding. 

CHERRY PUDDING, BOILED OR STEAMED. 
Two eggs, well-beaten, one cupful of sweet milk, sifted flour enough to make 
« stiff batter, two large teagxwnf uls of baking-powder, a pinch of salt, and a6 



DUMFLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 353 

many cherries as can be stirred in Boil one lour, or steam, and servo with 
liquid sauce. 

Craiiberries, currants, peaches, cherries, or any tart ft-uit is nice used with 
this recipe. Serve with sweet sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING. No. 2. 

Make a crust or paste of two cupfuls of floui', two teaspoonfuls of. baking* 
powder, a teaspoonful of salt; wet up with milk or water; roU out a quarter of 
an inch thick, butter a large common bowl and line it with this paste, leaving it 
large enough to lap over the top; fill it with stoned cherries and half a cupful of 
sugar. Gather the paste closely over the top, sprinkle a little with dry flour, 
and cover the whole with a linen cloth, fastening it with a string. Put it into a 
pot of boiling water, and cook for an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. (The Genuine.) 
Soak one pound of stale bread in a pint of hot milk, and let it stand and cool. 
When cold, add to it one-half pound of sugar and the yolks of eight eggs beaten 
to a cream, one pound of raisins, stoned and floured, one pound of Zante cur- 
rants, washed and flomred, a quarter of a pound of citron, cut in slips and dredged 
with flour, one pouna of beef suet, chopped finely and salted, one glass of wine, 
one glass of brandy, one nutmeg, and a tablespoonf ul of mace, cinnamon and 
cloves mixed; beat the whole well together, and, as the last thing, add the 
whites of eight eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; pour into a cloth previously 
scalded and dredged with flour, tie the cloth firmly, leaving room for the 
pudding to swell, and boil six hours. Serve with wine or brandy sauce. 
It is best to prepare the ingredients the day before, and cover closely. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM-PUDDING. (By Measure^ 
One cupful of finely chopped beef suet, two cupfuls of fine bread-crumbs, one 
heaping cupful of sugar, one cupful of seeded raisins, one cupful of well- washed 
currants, one cupful of chopped blanched almonds, half a cupful of citron, sliced 
■Jiin. a teaspoonful of salt, one of cloves, two of cinnamon, half a grated nut 
meg, and four weU-beaten eggs. Dissolve a level teaspoonful of soda in a table- 
spoonful of warm water. Flour the fruit thoroughly from a pint of flour; then 
mix the remainder as follows: In a large bowl put the well-beaten eggs, sugar, 
spices, and salt in one cupful of milk. Stir in the fruit, chopped nuts, bread- 
crumbs, and suet, one after the other, until all are used, putting in the dissolved 
poda jagtj and a dding enough flour to make the fruit stick together, which will 
take all the p*at. Boil ©? steam torn houi3. ^ervs with wine or l^aaci^ as $s&f 



$54 DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 

BAKED PLUM-PUDDING. 
It win be found best to prepare the ingredients the day before and cover 
closely. Grate a stale loaf of bread, or enough for a pint of crumbs; boil one 
quart of milk, and turn boiliiig hot over the grated bread; cover and let steep 
aa hour; in the meantime pick, soak and dry half a pound of currants, half a 
pound of ruisins, a quarter of a pound of citron cut in large slips, one nutmeg, one 
tablespoonful of mace and cumamon, mixed, one cupful of sugar, with half of a 
cupful of J)Utter; when the bread is. ready, mix with it the butter, sugar, spice 
and citron, adding a glassful of white wine; beat eight eggs very light, and 
when the mixture is quite cold, stir them gradually in; then add by degrees the 
raisins and currants dredged with flour; stir the whole very hard; put it into 
a buttered dish; baka two hours, send to the table warm. Eat with wine 
sauce, or wine and sugar. Most excellent. 

PLtJM-PUDDINGrWlTHOUT EGGS. 

This (loiicious, light pudding is made by stirring thoroughly together the 
following ingredients: One cupful of finely chopped beef suet, two cupfuls of 
fine bread-crumbs, one cupful of molasses, one of chopped raisins, one of well- 
washed currants, one spoonful of salt, one teaspoonf ul each of cloves, cinnamon, 
allspice, and carbonate of soda, one cupful of milk, and flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. Put into a well-greased pudding mold, or a three-quart pail, and 
cover closely. Set this pail into a larger kettle, close covered, and half full of 
boiling wateTj adding bofling water as it boUs away. Steam not less than four 
hours. This pudding is sure to be a success, and is quite rich for one containing 
neither eggs nor butter. One-half of the above amount is more than eight 
loersona would bo able to eat, but it is equally good some days later, steamed 
again for an hour, it Kept closely covered meantime. Serve with a wine sauoo 
or common sweet sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter vic^ll Ibe inside of a pudding-mold. Have ready a cupful of chopped 
citron, raisins and currants. Sprinkle some of this fruit on the bottom of the 
mold, then slices of stale sponge cake; shake over this some spices, cinnamon, 
cloves and nutm^, then fruit again and cake, until the mold is nearly full. 
Make a custard of a quart of milk, fotu: eggs, a pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter; pour this over the cake, without cooking it; let it stand and 
soak one hour; then steam one hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce or a 
mustard Seasoned with wine 



DutiPuitGsrmifmruiJiiTNGSi jfs 

BAKED CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

Pour boQing; water on a pint of bread-crumbs; melt a tablespoonful of buttei 
and stir io. When the bread is softened, add two eggs and beat thoroughly with 
the bread.!. Then put in a pint of the stewed fruit and sweeten to your taste. 
Fresh fruit of many kinds can be used instead of cranberries. Slices of peaches 
put in layers are delicious. Serve with sweet sugar sauce. 

ORANGE PUDDING. No. X. 

One pint of milk; the juice of six oranges and the rind of three, eight eggs; 

half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of granulated sugar, one tablespoonful 

of ground rice, paste to line the pudding-dish. Mix the ground rice with a Uttle 

of the cold milk. Put the remainder of the milk in the double boiler, and when 

it boils stir in the mixed rice. Stir for five minutes; then add the butter, and 

set away to cooL Beat together the sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and whites 

of four. Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of the oranges into this. Stir all 

into the cooked mixture. Have a pudding-dish holding about three quarts lined 

with paste. Pour the preparation into this, and bake in a moderate oven for 

forty minutes. Beat the remaining four whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 

gradually beat m the powdered sugar. Cover the pudding with this. Return 

to the oven and cook ten minutes, leaving the door open. Set away to cooL It 

must be ice cold when served. 

—Maria Parloa, 

ORANGE PUDDING. No. 2. 
Rve sweet oranges, one coffee-cupful of white sugar, one pint of mUk, the 
'yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of com-steu'cb. Peel and cut the oranges 
into thin slice's, taking out tlie seeds; pour over them the sugar and let them 
stand while you make the rest. Now set the milk in a suitable dish into another 
of boiling water, let the milk get boUing hot, add a piece of butter as lai^e as a 
nutmeg, the corn-starch made smooth with a little cold milk, and the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs, and a little flavoring. Stir it aU well together imtil it 
is smooth and cooked. Set it off and pour it over the oranges. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth, adding two tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over tha top for frost- 
ing. Set into the oven a few minutes to brown. Eat cold. Berries, peaches 
and other fruits may be substituted. 

BAKED LEMON PUDDING. (Queen of Puddings.) 
Jkgredients.^=^ne\qvtaxt] ofiinilkjf two cupfuls of bread-crumbs, four eggs, 
whites iHd:yol©"5)eateif jMparatelyy butterlbe.size^bf^anre^ cupful of. 



3S& DUMFUNGi ANB Pi/DSHNG-S. 

white sugar, on« large lemon -juice and gi'ated rind. Heat the milk and pow 
over the breadcrumbs, add the butter, cover and let it get soft. When cool, 
beat the sugar and yolks, and add to the mixture, also the giated rind. Bake 
in a buttered dish until firm and slightly brown, from a half to three-quarters of 
an hour. When done, draw it 'to the door of the oven, and cover with a 
meringue made of the whites of the eggs, whipped to a froth with four table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and the lemon-juice; put it back in the oven and 
brown a light straw color. Eat warm, with lemon sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
A small cupful of butter, the grated peel of two large lemons, and the juico 
of one; the yolks of ten eggs and whites of five; a cupful and a half of white sugar. 
Beat aU together, and, lining a deep pudding-dish with puff paste, bake the 
lemon pudding in it; while baking, beat the whites of the remaining five eggs 
to a stiff froth, whip in fine white sugar to taste, cover the top of the pudding 
(when baked) with the meringue, and return to the oven for a moment to 
brown; eat cold, it requires no sauce. 

BOILED LEMON PUDDING. 
Half a cupful of chopped suet, one pint of 'bread-crumbs, one lemon, one cup- 
ful of sugar, one of flour, a teaspoonful of salt and two eggs, milk. First mix 
the suet, bread-crumbs, sugar and flour well together, adding the lemon-peel, 
which should be the yellow grated from the outside, and the juice, which should 
be strained. When these ingredients are well mixed, moisten with the eggs 
and sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter; put 
it into a well-buttered mold, and boil for three and a half hours; turn it out, 
strew sifted sugar over and serve warm with lemon sauce, or not, at pleasure. 

LEMON PUDDING, COLD. 
One cupful of sugar, four eggs, tlie white.<< and yolks beaten separately, two 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful of butter and 
the juice and rind of two lemons. Wet the com-starch in some of the milk, 
then stir it into, the remainder of the milk, which should be boiling on the stove, 
stirring constantly and briskly for five minutes. Take it from the stove, stir in . 
the butter and let it cool. Beat tlie yolks and sugar together, then stir them 
thoroughly into the milk and com>«ta.'ch Now stir in the lemon-juice and 
grated rind, doing it very gradually, making it very smooth. ' Brtke in a well 
buttered dislL lb be eaten odA. Omngeit may be used in placn of lemons. 
f^m also may bs turned while Aof into several smaD cups or foiTOs previously 



DUMPUtraSAND PtfDJS^JNOS. 357 

Hipped in cold water, place them aside; in one hour they will beilt to turn out. 
Serve with cream and sugar. Should be boUed all togeth^ noC baked. 

ROYAL SAGO PUDDING. 

Three-quarters of a cupful of sago, washed and put into one quart of milk; 
put it into a sauce pan, let it stand in boiling water on the stove or range until 
the sago has well-swelled. While hot, put in' two tablespoonfuls of butter 
with one cupful of white sugar, and flavoring. When cool, add the well-beaten 
yplks of four eggs, put in a buttered pudding-dish, and bake from half to three- 
quarters of an hour; then remove it from the oven and place it to cool. Beat 
the whites of the eggs with three tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar, till 
they are a inass of froth; spread the pudding with either raspberiy or strawberry 
jam, and then spread on the frosting; put in the oven for two minutes to slightly 
brown. If made in summer, be sure and keep the whites of the eggs on ica 
until ready for use, and beat them in the coolest place you can And, as it will 
make a much richer frosting. 

The small white sago called pearl is the best. The large brown kind has an 
earthy taste. It should always be kept in a covered jar or box. 

This pudding, made with tapioca, is equally as good. Serve with any sweet 
eauce. 

SAGO APPLE PUDDING 

One cupful of sago in a quart of tepid water, with a pinch of salt, soaked for 
one hour; six or eight apples, pared and cored, or quartered, and steamed tender, 
and put in the pudding dish; boil and stir the sago until dear, adding water to 
make it thin, and pour it over the apples; bake one hour. This is good hot, with 
butter and sugar, or cold with cream and sugar. 

fLAIN SAGO PUDDING. 

Make the same as '' Tapioca Pudding," substituting sago for tapioca 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. No. i. 

Make a com-starch pudding with a quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch, and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. When done, remove about half 
and flavor to taste, and then to that remaining in the kettle add an egg beaten 
very light, and four tablespoonfuls of vanilla chocolate, grated and dissolved in 
a little jtsilk. Put in a mold, alternating t|fc9 <|ark and light. Serve with 
wh^^ cream or bdQed custard. Thid M more of s blaBe»xaaj3^ than a pudding. 



35* DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. No. 2. 
One quart of sweet milk, three-quarters of a cupful of grated chocolate; scald 
the milk and chocolate together; when cool, add the yolks of five eggs, one cup- 
ful of sugar; flavor with vaniUa.- Bake ahout twenty-five minutes. Beat the five 
whites of eggs to a stiflf froth, adding four tablespoonluls of fine sugar, spread 
evenly over the top and brown slightly in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. No 3 
One quart of milk, fourteen even tablespoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs, 
twelve tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, six eggs, one tablespoonful vanilla, sugar 
to make very sweet. Se arate the yolks aud whites of four eggs, beat up the 
four yolks and two whole eggs together very light with the sugar. Put the 
milk on the range, and when it comes to a perfect boil pour it over the bread 
and chocolate; add the beaten eggs and sugar and vanilla; be sure it is sweet 
enough; pour into a buttered dish; bake one hour in a moderate oven. When 
cold, and just before it is served, have the four whites beaten with a bttle pow- 
dered sugar, and flavor vnth vanilla, and use as a meringue. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. No. 4- 

Half a cake of chocolate broken in one quart of milk and put on the range 
untD it reaches boiling point; remove the mixture from the range; add four tea- 
spoonfuls of corn-starch mixed with the yolks of three eggs and one cup and a 
half of sugar; stir constantly until thick; remove from the fire and flavor with 
vanilla; pour the mixture in a dish; beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff 
froth, and add a little sugar; cover the top of the pudding with a meringue, and 
set in the oven until a light brown. Serve cold. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Rve tablespoonfuls of tapioca, one quart of mUk, two ounces of butter, a 
cupful of sugar, four eggs, flavoring of vanilla or bitter almonds. Wash the 
tapioca, and let it stew gently in the milk on the back part of the stove for a 
quarter of an hoiir, occasionally stirring it; then let it cool; mix with it the 
butter, sugar and eggs, which should be well beaten, and flavor with either of 
the above ingredients. Butter a dish, put in the pudding, and bake in a moderate 
oven for an hour. If the pudding is boiled, add a little more tapioca, and boil it 
in 8 battered basin one and a half houia. 



DUMJ>UNGS AND PUDDINGS, 359 

STRAWBERRY TAPIOCA 

This mak^ a most delightful dessert. Soak over night a large teacupful of 
tapioca in cold water; in the morning, put half of it in a buttered yellow- ware 
baking-dish, or ajjy suitable pudding-dish. Sprinkle sugar over the tapioca; 
then on this put a quart of berries, sugar, and the rest of the tapioca. Fill the 
dish with water, which should cover the tapioca about a quarter of an inch. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven until it looks dear. Eat cold, with cream or 
custard. If not sweet enough, add more sugar at table; and in baking, if it 
seems too dry, more water is needed. 

A similar dish may be made, using peaches, either fresh or canned. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING. 
One-quarter cupful of butter, one-half cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of jam, 
six cupfuls of soft bread-crumbs, four eggs. Bub the butter and sugar 
together; beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately; mash the raspberri^ 
add the whites beaten to a stiff froth; stir all together to a smooth paste; 
butter a pudding-dish, cover the bottom with a layer of the crumbs, then a 
layer of the mixture; continue the alternate layers until the dish is full, making 
the last layer of crumbs; bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve in the 
dish in which it is baked, and serve with fruit sauce made with raspberries. This 
pudding may be made the same with other kinds of berries. 

PEAR, PEACH AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare some nice, ripe pears (to weigh about three-fourths of a poimd); put 
them in a sauce-pan vrith a few cloves, some lemon or orange peel, and stew 
about a quarter of an hour in two cupfuls of water; put them in your pudding- 
dish, and having made the following custard, one pint of cream, or milk, four 
eggs, sugar to taste, a pinch of salt and a tablespoonful of flour; beat eggs and 
sugar well, add the flour, grate some nutmeg, add the cream by degrees, stirring 
all the time, — pour this over the pears, and bake in a quick overu Apples or 
peaches may be substituted. 

Serve cold with sweetened cream. 

FIG PUDDINGS. 
Half a pound of good, dried figs, washed, wiped and minced; two cupfuls of 
fine, dry bread-crumbs, three eggs, half a cupful of beef suet, powdered, two 
scant cupfuls of sweet milk, half a cupful of white sugar, ajittle^8alt,.half a tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder, 6ldn«il W half a cupful of sifted Sour. Soak the 



360 DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 

crumbs in milk, add the eggs, beaten Ugbt, vtiSdm^^^xSA, sh^, floor and figs. 
Beat three minutes, put in buttered molds with tight top, set in boiling water 
with weight on cover to pr§vent mold from upsetting, and boil three hours. Eat 
hot with hard sauce .or batter, powdered eugar, one teaspoonful of extract of 
nutmeg; 

FRUIT PUDDING, CORN-MEAL. 
Take a pint of hot milk, and stir 19 tfif ted Indian meal till the batter is stiff; 
add a teaspoonful of salt and half of a raip of molasses, adding a teaspoonful oi 
soda dissolved; then stir in a pint of wh<»'tleberries or chopped sweet apple; tie 
in a cloth that has been wet, and leave room for- it to swell, or put it in a 
pudding- pan, and tie a cloth over; boil three hoius; the water must boil wheo 
it is put in; you can use cranberries and sweet sauce. 

APPLE CORN-MEAL PUDDING. 
Pare and core twelve jrippen apples; slice them very thin; then stir into one 
quart of new milk one quart of sifted corn-meal; add a little salt, then the 
apples, four spoonfuls of chopped suet and a teacupful of good molasses, adding 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved; nrix these well together; pour into a buttered 
ciiili, aad bake four hours; serva hot, with sugar anS wine sauce" This ia 
the most simple, cheap aad luxurious fruit puddiag that can be mads. 

RHUBARB, OR PIE-PLANT PUDDING. 

Chop rhubarb pretty fine, put in a pudding-dish, and sprinkle sugar over it; 
make a batter of one cupful of sour milk, two eggs, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, half a teaspoonful of soda, and enough Sour to make batter about aa 
thick as for cake. Spread it over the rhubarb, and balce till done. Turn out 
on a platter upside down, so that {he rhubarb will be on top. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

FRUIT PUDDINGS. 

Fruit puddinp, such as green gooseberry, are very nice made i^ a basin, the 
basin to be buttered and lined with a paste, rolling it round to the thickness of 
half an inch; then get a pint of goosej^erries and three oimoes c^ sugar; after 
having made your pad«, take half the- fruit, and lay it at the bottom of your 
basin; then add half yom* sugar, then put the remainder of the gooseberries in, 
and the remainder of the sugar; pn that, draw your paste to the centre, join the 
edges well together, put the cloth over the whole, tying it at the bottom, and boQ 
in plenty of water. SVuit puddings of this kind, such as apples and ilabaxb. 
6h<mld be done in this ifian^iaf.; 



DCrjlfJ>£//imS AifD PVD&tHeS. 361 

Bofi &a^aniipar, take out of the saace-pan, untie the clotitt^ bun t}^ (^ a 
dJdi, or tel tt renui^ fn the basin, and serve with siigiir over. A thin cover dl 
the paste may be rolled round and put over the pudding. 

Rq» cherries, currants, raspberries, greengages, plums and such like firuity 
will not require so much sugar, or so long boiling. These puddings are also very 
good steamed, 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One half a package of Cox's gelatine; pour over it a cupful of cold water, and 
add 6ne and a half cupfuls of sugar; when soft, add one cupful of boiliag water 
and the juice of one lemon; then the whites of four well-beaten eggs; beat all 
together until it is light and frothy, or until the gelatine will not settle clear in 
the bottcon of the dish after standing a few minutes; put it on a glass dish. 
Serve with a custard made of one pint of milk, the yolks of foiir eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of ^gar, and the grated rind of a lemon; bofl. 

DELMONICa PUDDING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, the yolks of five eggs, six tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; beat the eggs light; then add the sugar and beat again till very light; 
mix the com starch with a little cold milk; mix all together and stir into one 
quart of milk Just as it is about to boil, having added a little salt; stir it until it 
has thickened well; pom* it into a dish for the table and place it in the oven imtfl 
it will bear icing; place over the top a layer of canned peaches or other fruit (and 
it improves it to mix the syrup of the fruit with the custard part); beat the 
whites to a stiff froth with two tablespoonfuls of white sugar to an egg; then 
put it into the oven until it is a light brown. 

This is a very delicate and deUcious pudding. 

SAUCER PUDDINGS. 

Two tablespoonfuls of floiu", two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, three 
e^s, a •teacupful of milk, butter, preserve of any kind. Mix the flour and sugar, 
beat the «ggs, add them to the milk, and beat up with the flour and sugar. 
Butter well tliree saucers, half fill them, and bake in a quick oven about twenty 
minutes. Remove them from the saucers when cool enougli, out in half, and 
spread a thin layer of preserve beWeen each half; close them again, and serve 
with cream. 

NANTUCKET PUDDING. 

Que quart ^ benies or any small fruit; two taUB;vf>oo|l^ 0^ tsuas, tTOO 
taUespeottfuls e£ cnsart sinun^ togettiar asA torn ii^ molds; ecrvor witb.fiost : 



je* t>VMPLlNGS AND FUDDtNG^- 

ing 9S for cake, or with whipped eggs and sugar, browning lightly In the oven; 
serve with cream. 

TOAST PUDDING. 

Toast several thin slices of stale bread, removing the crust, butter them well, 
and pour over them hot stewed fhiit in alternate layers. Serve warm with rich 
hot sauce. 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 

Pick over, wash and bofl, a teacupful of rice; when soft, drain off the water; 
while warm, add to it a tablespoonful of cold butter. When cool, mix vrith it a 
cupful of sugar, a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and one of ground cinuamoa 
Beat up four eggs very light, whites and yolks separately; add them to the rice; 
then stir in a quart of sweet milk gradually. Butter a pudding dish, turn in 
the mixture, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve warm, vtdth sweet 
wine sauce. 

K you have cold cooked rice, first soak it in the milk, and proceed as above. 

RICE PUDDING. (Fine.) 
'Wash a teacupful of rice, and boil it in two teacupfuls of water; then add, 
while the rice is hot, three tablespooufuls of butter, five tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
five eggs well beaten, one tablespoGnf ul of powdered nutmeg, a little salt, one 
glass of wine, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and cut in halves, a 
quarter of a pound of Zante currants, a quarter of a pound of citron cut in 
slips, and one quart of cream; mix well, pour into a buttered dish and bake 

an hour in a moderate oven. 

—Astor Roiiae, Neto York i 



RICE MERINGUE. 
One cupful of carefully soiled rice, boiled in water until it is soft; when 
done, drain it so aa to remove all the water; cool it, and add one quart of new 
milk, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 
and a little nutmeg, or flavor with lemon or vanilla; pour into a baking dish, 
and bake about half an hour. Let it get cold; beat the whites of the eggs, add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor with lemon or vanilla; drop or spread it over 
the pudding, and slightly brown it in the oven 

RICE LEMON PUDDING. 

Put on to boil one quart of milk, and when it simmers stir in four table- 
Bjioonfuls of rice flour that has been moistened in a little milk; let it come to a 
boil, and remove from the fire; add one-quarter of a pound of butter, and when 



DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 363 

cool, the grated peal, with the juice of two lemons, and the yolks and beaten 
whites of four eggs; sweeten to taste; one wine-glassful of wine, put in the 
test thing, is also an improvement. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 
Two quarts o£milk, two-thirds of a cupful of rice, a cupful of sugar, a piece 
or baiter as large as a walnut, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a little nutmeg and a 
pinch of salt. Put into a deep pudding-dish, well-buttered, set into a moderate 
oven; stir it once or twice until it begins to cook, let it remain in the oven about 
two hours (until it is the consistency of cream). Eat cold. 

FRUIT RICE PUDDING. 

One large teacupful of rice, a Uttle water to cook it partially; dry, line an 
earthen basin with part of it; fill nearly full with pared, cored and quartered 
apples, or any fruit you choose; cover with the balance of your rice; tie a cloth 
tightly over the top, and steam one hour. To be eaten vidth sweet sauce. Do 
not butter your dish. 

BOILED RICE PUDDING. No. 1, 

One cupful of cold, boiled rice, one cupful of sugar, four eggs, a pinch o£ 
soda, and a pinch of salt. Put it all in a bowl, and beat it up until it is very 
light and white. Beat four ounces of butter to a cream, put it into the pudding, 
and ten drops of essence of lemon. Beat altogether for five minutes. Butter a 
mold, pour the pudding into it, and boil for two hours. Serve vdth sweet fruit 
sauce. 

BOILED RICE PUDDING. No. 2. 

Wash two teacupfuls of rice, and soak it in water for half an hour; then turn 
ofif the water, and mix the rice with half a pound of raisins stoned and cut in 
halves; add a little salt, tie the whole in a cloth, leaving room for the rice to 
swell to twice its natural size, and boil two hours in plenty of water; serve 
with wine sauce. _ 

RICE SNOW-BALLS. 

'Wash two teacupfuls of rice, and bofl it in one teacupful of water and one of 
milk, with a Uttle salt; if the rice is not tender when the milk and water are 
absorbed, add a httle more milk and water; when the rice is tender, flavor with 
vanilla, form it into balls, or mold it into a compact form with little cups; place 
these rice balls around the inside of a deep dish, fill the dish with a rich soft 
custard, and serve either hot or cold. The custard and balls should be flavored 
with the sama- 



364 DUMPLINGS AND PUDJ>WOS. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 
Heat a little more than a pint of sweet milk to the boiling point, then stir in 
gradually a little cold mWlr in which you have rubbed smooth a heaping tat^e- 
spoonftd of cornstarch; add sugar to suit your taste; three well-beaten eggs, 
about a teaspoonful of butter, and a little grated nutmeg. Let this (tome to a 
boil, then pour it in a buttered pudding-dish, first adding a cupful of stewed 
prunes, with the stones taken out. Bake for from fifteen to twenty miimtea, 
according to the state of the oven. , Serve with or without sauce. A Uttle cream 
improves it if poured over it when placed in saucers. 

BLACKBERRY OR WHORTLEBERRY PUDDING. 
Three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of molasses, half a cupful of milk, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a Uttle cloves and cinnamcm, a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in 
a littl0 of the milk. Stir in a quart of hucldeberries, floured. Boil in a V^ll- 
buttered mold two hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 

BAKED HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

One quart of ripe, fresh hucklebemes or blueberries; half a teaspoonful of 
mace or nutmeg, three eggs ■wreU beaten, separately; two cupfuls of sugar; one 
tablespoonful of cold butter; one cupful of sweet milk, one pitit of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Eoll the berries Well in the floor, and add them 
last of alL_ Bake half an hour and serve with sauce. ' There is no more delicate 
and dehcious pudding than this. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

This pudding is made without Goc*ingand is nice prepared the day before 
used. 

Stew currants or any small fitiits, either fresh or dried, sweeten with sugaf 
to taste, and pour hot over <A«n sEces of bread with the crust cut off, placed it 
a suitable dish, first a layer of bread, then the hot stewed fruit, than bread and 
fruit, then bread, leaving the fruit last. Put a plate over the top aiid.trfieii 
cool, set it on ice. Serve with sugar and cream. 

This pudding is very fine made with Boston crackers split open> cmd I^&ced 
in layers with stewed peaches. 

BOILED CURRANT PUDDING. 
Five cupfuls of rafted flopr in which two teafepoonfub of Isaking powder have 
been sifted. One-half a caitful of chopped suet; half a. pound o£ Xfixmstta, miUt. 



a pinch of salt. Vh^ thfl oufraots, dry them thoroughly, and pick away any 
stalks or grit; chop the suet finely; mix all the ingredients together and moisten 
with suiScient milk to make the pudding into a stiff batter; tie it up in a floured 
cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for three hours and a half. Serve with 
jeDy eaiice made very sweet. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

A small cupful of fresh butter wamaed, but not melted, one cupful of sifted 
sugar creamed with the butter, a teaspoonful of nutmeg, grated, eight eggs, yolks 
and whites beaten aeparatdy. Beat the butter and sugar light, and then add the 
nutmeg and the beateo eggs, which should be stirred in gradually; flavor with 
vanilki, almottd, peach or roeewater; stir hard; butter a deep dish, line withl 
puff-i»ate, and bake half an hour. Th£ai make a meringue fen: the top, and 
brown. 1 Swve edd. 

SWEET-POTATO PUDDING. 

To a laige sweet potato, we^^iing two pounds, allow half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound at butter, one giH of sweet cream, one gill of strong wine or brandy, 
one grsted mittn^ a little lemon peel, and four eggs. BoU the potato tmtil 
thoroughly done, mash up fine, and while hot add the sugar and butter. Set 
aside toicool whfie you beat the eggs light,'and add the seasoning last. Line 
tin plates wiUi puff -paste, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate but 
regularly heated oven. When the puddings are drawn from the fire, cover the 
top with thinly sliced bits of preserved citron or quince marmalade. Strew the 
top thickly with granulated white sugar, and serve, with the addition of a glass 
of rich milk for each person at table. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 
Butter a pudding-dish and line the bottom and sides with slices of stale cake 
(sponge cake is best); pare and sUce thin a large pineapple; place in the dish first 
a layer of pineapple, then strew with sugar, then more pineapple, and so on 
until alLia used. . Pour over a small teacupful of water, and covei- with slices of 
cake which have been dipped in cold water; cover the whole vdth a buttered 
plate, and bake slowly for two hours. 

ORANGE ROLEV FOLEY. 

Make a light dough the same as for apple dumplings, roD it out into a narrowl 

lesg sheet, about quarter of an mch thick. Spread thickly over it peeled and 

■Used omages, sprinkle it plentifuSy wiUi white sugar; scatter over all a tea- 

■poonfti] or two of gpfated omnge-twel. then ro9 It up. Fold the edges well 



$0i SiffaiFLiNGS AND\FU£»Bm&&,. 

together, to keep the jnices from mnning out. Boil it ia a floured lAsfiHa one hoar 
and a half. Serve it with lemon sauce. Tine. 

ROLEY FOLEY PUDDING. (Apple.) 
Peel, core and slice sour apples; make a rich biscuit dough, or raised biscuit 
dough ma7 be used if rolled thinner; roll not quite half an inch thick, lay the 
eUces on the paste, roll up, tuck in the ends, prick deeply with a fork, lay it in a 
steamer, and steam hard for aQ hour and three-quarters. Or, wrap it in a pud- 
ding-cloth well floured; tie the ends, baste up the sides, plunge into boiling 
water, and boil continually an hour and a half, perhaps more. Stoned cherries, 
dried fruits, or any kind of berries, fresh or dried, may be used. 

FRUIT FUFF FUDDING. 
Into one pint of flour stir two teaspoonf uls baking-powder and a httle salt; 
then sift and stir the mixture into milk, until very soft. Place well-greased 
cups in a steamer, put in each a spoonful of the above batter, then add one of 
berries or steamed apples, cover with another spoonful of batter, and steam 
twenty minutes. This pudding is deUcious made with strawberries, and eaten 
with a sauce made of two eggs, half a cup butter, a cup of sugar beaten thor- 
oughly wtth a cup of boiling milk, and one cup of strawberries. 

SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. No. i. 
Bake a common sponge cake in a flat-bottomed pudding-dish; when ready to 
use, cut in six or eight pieces; split and spread with butter, and return them to 
the dish. Make a custard with four eggs to a quart of milk; flavor and sweeten 
to taste; poxir. over the cake, and bake one-half hour. The cake will sweU and 
fill the custard. Serve with or without sauce. 

SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. No. 2 

Buttera pudding- mold: fiU the mold with small spongecakes or sUces of 
stale plain cake, that have been soaked in a Uquid made by dissolving one-half 
pint of jelly in a pint of hot water. This will be as fine a flavor and much 
better for all than if the cake had been soaked in wine. Make a suflScient 
quantity of custard to fill the mold, and leave as much more to be boiled in 
a dish by itself. Set the mold, after being tightly covered, into a kettle, and 
boil one hour. Turn out of the mold, and serve with some of the other 
custax" J. poured over it. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Mix well together one half a coffee-cupful of molasses, one-quarter of a cup- 
M of butter„ one egg, one-half a cupful of milk, one-half a teaspoonful of pure 



DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 367 

soda, one and one-half cupfuls of good Graham flour, one small teacupf ul of 
raisins, spices to taste. Steam four hours, and serve with brandy or wine 
sauce, or any sauce that may be preferred. This makes a showy as well as a 
light and wholesome dessert, and has the merit of simplicity and cheapness. 

BANANA PUDDING. 

Cut sponge cake in slices, and, in a glass dish, put alternately a layer of 
cake and a layer of bananas sliced. Make a soft custard, flavor with a little 
wine, and pour over it. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and heap 
over the whole. 

Peaches cut up, left a few hours in sugar and then scalded, and added when 
cold to thick boiled custard, made rather sweet, are a delicious dessert. 

DRIED PEACH PUDDING. 

Boil one pint of milk and while hot turn it over a pint of bread-crumbs. Stir 
into it a tablespoonful of butter, one pint of dried peaches stewed soft. When 
all is cool, add two well-beaten eggs, half of a cupfiil of sugar and a pinch of 
salt; flavor to taste. Put into a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake half an 
horn:. 

SUET PUDDING, PLAIN. 

One cupftd of chopped suet, one cupful of milk, two eggs beaten, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and enough flour to make a stiff .batter, but thin enough to pour 
from a spoon. Put into a bowl, cover with a cloth, and boil three hours. The 
same, made a little thinner, wdth a few raisins added, and baked in a weU- 
greased dish is excellent. Two teaspoohfuls of baking-powder in the flour 
improves this pudding. Or if made with soiu- milk and soda it is equaJly as good. 

SUET PLUM PUDDING. 

One cupful of suet, chopped fine, one cupful of cooking molasses, one cupful 
of miTlr, one cupful of raisins, three and one-half cupfuls of flour, one egg; one 
teaspoonf ul of cloves, two of cirmamon, and one of nutmeg, a little salt, one tea- 
spoonful of soda; bofl three hom-s in a pudding-mold set into a kettle of ■Water, 
eat with common sweet sauce. If sour milk'is used in place of sweet, the pud- 
ding will be much lighter. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Line a deep dish with rich thick crost; pare and cut into halves or quarters 
Bome juicy, rather tart peaches; put in sugar, spices and flavoring to taiste; stew 
«t slightly, and put it in the lined dish; cover with thick crast of rich puff paste. 



368 DUMPLINGS AND PUDDINGS. 

and bake a rich brown; whea done, break up the top crust into small pieces, and 
stir it into the fruit; serve hot or cold; very palatable wijihout sauce, but more 
80 with plain, rich cream or cream sauce, or with a rich brandy or wine. Other 
fruits can be used in placeofpeaches. Currants are best ma de in t b ia mann er: 
• Press the currants through*asieTel;o^fre& it from'pips; to each pint of the' 
pulp put two ounces of crumbed bread and four ounces of sugar; bake with a 
rim of puff -paste; serve with cream. White currants may be used instead of red. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 
Two-thirds of a cupful of hominy, one and a half pints of milk, tivo eggs, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of extract of lemon or vanUla, one 
cupful of sugar. Boil hominy in milk one hour; then pour it on the eggs, 
extract and sugar, beaten together; add butter, pour in buttered pudding-dish,' 
bake ia hot oven for twenty minutes. 

BAKED BERRY ROLLS. 
Eollrich biscuit-dough thin, cut it into Uttle squares forn: inches wide and 
seven inches long. Spread over with berries. EoU up the crust, and put the 
rolls ia a dripping-pan just a little apart; put a piece of butter on each roll, 
spices if you like. Strew over a large handful of sugar, a little hot water. Sb* 
in the oven and bake like dumplings. Served with sweet sauce. 

GREEN-CORN PUDDING. 

Take two dozen full ears of sweet green com, score the kernels and cut them 
from the cob. Scrape off what remains on the cob with a knife. Add a pint 
and a half or one quart of milk, according to the youngness and juiciness of the 
com. Add four eggs well beaten, a half teacupful of flour, a half teacupful of 
butter, a tablespoonful of sugar, and salt to taste. Bake in a.weU-greased 
earthen dish, in a hot" oven, two hours. Place it on the table browned and 
smoking hot,- eat it with plenty of fresh butter. This can be used as a 
dessert, by serving a sweet sauce with it. If eaten plainly with butter, it 
answers as a side vegetable. 

GENEVA WAFERS. 
Two eggs, three oxmces of butter, three oimces of flour, three ounces of 
pounded sugar. Well whisk the eggs, put them into a basin, and stir to them the 
butter, which should be beaten to a cream; add the flour and sjfted sugar gradu- 
ally, and then mix all well together. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop on it a 
^S^Q^nf^l oMibe mixtiu'o at a time, leaving a space between each. Bake in 
a 6(»1^6veD;^ra,tch the pieces of paste, and. when half done, roll them up like 



DVUrUKGS AifD PUnoiNCi. 369 

warers, and put in a sm»ll we^ge of bread or piece of wood, to keep them in 
shape. Return them to the oven iintil crisp, Befpjie sejTJjjg, remove the bread, 
put a spoonful of preserve in the widest end, and fiU up with whipped cream. 
This is a very pretty and ornamental dish for the supper-table, and is very mce, 
and very easily made. 

MINUTE PUDDING. No. i. 

Set a sauce-pan or deep frying-pan on the stove, the bottom and sides well 
buttered, put into it a quart of sweet milk, a pinch of salt, and a piece of butter 
35 large as half an egg; when it boils have ready a dish of sifted flour, stir it 
into the boiling mUk, sifting it through your fingers, a handful at a time, until 
it becomes smooth and quite thick. . . Turn it into a dish that has been dipped in 
water. ' Make a sauce very sweet to serve with it. Maple molasses is f,ne with 
it. This pudding is much improved by adding canned berries or fresh ones just 
before taking from the stove. 

MINUTE PUDDING. No. 2. 

One quart of milk, salt, two eggs, about a pint of flour. Beat the eggs well; 
add the flour and enough jnW^ to make ifc smooth. Butter the sauce-pan and 
put in the remainder of the milk well salted; when it boils, stir in the flour, 
eggs, etc., lightly; let it cook welL . It should be of the consistency of thick com 
mush. Serve immediately with the following simple sauce, viz : Eich milk or 
cream sweetened to taste, and flavored with grated nutmeg. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING. 
One cupful of sugar, haJf a cupful of cold butter, a pint of milk, two cupfuls 
of sifted flour, and five eggs. Make the milk hot; stir ia the butter, and let it 
cool before the other ingredients are added to it; then stir in the sugar, flour, 
and eggs, which should bo well whisked, and omit the whites of two; flavor 
with a little grated lemon-rind, and beat the mixture welL Butter some small 
cups, rather more than half fill them; bake from twenty minutes to half an 
hour, according to the size of the puddings, and serve with fruit, custard or 
wine sauce, a Uttle of which may be poured over them. They may be dropped 
by spoonfuls on buttered tins, and baked, if cups are not convenient. 

JELLY PUDDINGS. 
Two cupfuls of very fine, stale biscuit or bread crumbs; one cupful o£ rich 
milk— half cream, if you can get it; five eggs, beaten very light; half a. tea- 
spoonful of soda, stirred in bofling water; one cupful of sweet jelly, jam or mar- 
malade. Scald the milk and pour over the crumbs. Beat imtil half cold, and 



370 DUMPLJNGS AND PUW/NGS. 

stir in the beaten yolks, then whites, finally the soda. Fill large cups half fuU 
with the batter; set in a qiiick oven and bake half an hour. When done, tmn 
out quickly, and dexterously; with a sharp knife make an incision inthe side of 
each; pull partly open, and put a liberal spoonful of the conserve within. Close 
the slit by pinrtikig the edges with your fingers. Eat warm with sweetened 
cream. 

QUICK PUDDING. 

Soak and split some crackers; lay the surface over with raisins and citron; 
put the halves together, tie them in a bag, and boil fifteen minutes in milk and 
water: delicious with rich sauce. 

READY PUDDING. 

Make a batter of one quart of milk, and about one pound of fiour; add six 
eggs, the yoUcs and whites separately beaten, a teaspoonful of salt and four 
tablespoonf uls of sugar. It should be as stiff as can possibly be stirred with a 
spoon. Dip a spoonful at a time into quick boiling water, boil from five to ten 
minutes, take out. Serve hot with sauce or syrup. 

A ROYAL DESSERT. 

Cut a stale cake into slices an inch and a half in thickness; pour over thein 
a little good, sweet creamy then fry lightly in fresh butter in a smooth frying- 
pan; when done, place over each slice of cake a layer of preserves; or, you may 
make a rich sauce to be served with it. 

Another dish equally as good, is to dip thin slices of bread into fresh milk; 
have ready two eggs well-beaten; dip the shces in the egg, and fry them in 
butter to a light brown; when fried, pour over them a syrup, any kind that you 
choose, and serve hot. 

HUCKLEBERRIES V/ITH CRACKERS AND CREAM. 
Pick over carefully one quart of blueberries, and keep them on ice untfl 
wanted. Put into each bowl, for each guest, two soda-crackers, broken in not 
too small pieces; add a few tablespoonfuls of berries, a teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar, and fill the bowl with the richest of cold, sweot cream. This is an old- 
fashioned New England breakfast dish. It also answers for a dessert. 



BRANDY SAUCE, COLD. 

Two cupfuls of powdered sugar, half a cupful of butter, one wine-glassful of 
brandy, cmnamon and nutmeg, a teaspoonful of each. Warm the butter 
slightly, and work it to a light cream with the sugar, then add the brandy and 
spices; beat it hard and set aside until wanted. Should be put into a mold to 
look nicely, and serve on a flat dish. 

BRANDY OR WINE SAUCE. No. i. 
Stir a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch in a Uttle cold water to a smooth 
paste (or instead use a tablespoonful of sifted flour); add to it a cupful of boiling 
water, with one Cupful of sugar, a piece of butter as large aa an egg, boil all 
together ten minutes. Eemove from the fire, and when cool, stir into it half of 
a cupful of brandy or wine. It should be about as thick as thin syrup. 

RICH WINE SAUCE. No. 2. 
One cupful of butter, two of powdered sugar, half a cujrful of wine. Beat 
the butter to a cream. Add the sugar gradually, and when very light add the 
wine, which has been made hot, a little at a time, a teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg. Place- the bowl in a basin of hot water, and stir for two minutes. The 
«auce should be smooth and foamy. 

' BRANDY OR WINE SAUCE. No. 3 
Take one cupful of butter, two of powdered sugar, the whites of two eggs, 
five tablespoonf uls of sherry wine or brandy, and a quarter of a cupful of boiling 
water. Beat batter and sugar to a cream, add the whites of the eggs^ one at a 
time, unbeaten, and then the wine or brandy. Place the bowl in hot water, and 
ptir tiD smooth and frothy. 



37t SAUCES F(m PUDDllfGS. 

SAUCE FOR PLUM-PUDDING. (Superior. 
Cream together a cupful of sugar and half a cupful of butter; when light 
and creamy, add the well beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir into this one wine- 
glass of wine or one of brandy, a pinch of salt and one large cupful of hot 
cream or rich milk. Beat this mixture well; place it in a sauce-pan over the 
Qre, stir it until it oooks sufloiently to thicken like cream. Be sure and not 
let it boil. Delicious. 

LIQUID BRANDY SAUCE. 

Brown over the fire three tablespoonfuls of sugar; add a cupful of water, 
sis whole cloves and a piece of stick cinnamon, the yellow rind of a lemon cut 
very thin; let the sauee boil, straia while hot, then pour it into a sauce bowl 
containing the juice of the lemon and a cup of brandy. Serve warm. 
GRANDMOTHER'S SAUCE. 

Cream together a cupful of sifted sugar and half a cupful of butter, add a 
teaspoonful of ground cinnamon and an egg well beaten. Boil a teacupful of 
milk and turn it^ boiling hot, over the mixture slowly, stirring all the time; this 
will cook the egg smoothly. It may be served cold or hot. 

SUGAR SAUCE. 
\ One coffee-cupful of granulated sugar, half of a cupful of water, a piece of 

butter the size of a walnut. Boil all together until it becomes the consistent of 
eymp. Flavor with lemon or vanilla extract. A tablespoonful of lemon- joke 
is an improvement. Nice with, cottage pudding. 

LEMON SAUCE. 
One cnpfol of sugar, half a cupful of butter, <me e^ beaten ligbti one lemon, 
{nice and grated rind, half a cupM of boiliBg water; put ia a tin badn and 
thicken over steam. 

LEMON. GRSAM SAUCErHOT. 
Put half a pint <& new mSk oa the fir*, wJi -wlisa it befls ^ into it one tea- 
spoonful o£' wheat Svor, four «uaoe8 of sugar and && w«E-beateffl yotks of three 
eggs; remove it £rom the ftre and add the grated rind and the juiee of onelemoo; 
stir it wen, and serve hot in a sauce tureen. 

ORANGE CREAM SAUCE, HOT. 
This is made z& " Lemon Cream Sauce," substituting orange for lemon. 
Creams for puddings, pies and iritters, may be made in the same maaaor 



SAUCBS'FOarP^UDDtNGS] 373 

with any other flavori^; if flour is used in making them, it should boil in the 
milk three or four minutes. 

COLD LEMON SAUCE. 
Beat to a cream one teacupful of butter and two teacupfuls of fine white sugar; 
tiien stir in the juice and grated rind of oAe lemon; grate nutmeg upon the 
sauce, and serve on a flat dish. 

COLD ORANGE SAUCE. 

Beat to a cream one teacupfuLof butter and two teacupfuls of fine white sugar; 
Ihen stir in the grated rind of one orange and the juice of two; stir until all the 
orange- juice is absorbed; grate nutmeg upon the saiice, and serve on a fiat dish.' 

COLD CREAM'SAUCE. 

Stir to a cream one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, then add a cupful 
of sweet, thick, cold cream, flavor to taste. Stu- weU, and set it in a cool placet 

CREAM SAUCE, WARM. 

Heat a piiit of cream slowly in a double boiler; when nearly boiling, set it ofiE 
from the fire, put into it half a cupful of sugar, a little nutmeg or vanilla extract; 
stir it thoroughly, and add, when cool, the whites of two well-beaten eggs. Set 
it on the fire in a dish containing hot water to keep it warm until needed, stir-!' 
ring once or more. 

CARAMEL SAUCEi 

Place over the fire a sauce-pan; when it begins to be hot, put into it four 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar, and one tablQspoonful of water. Stir it continu- 
ally for three or fom: minutes, until all the water evaporates; then watch it 
(ba*efully imtil it becomes a delicate brown color. ' Have ready a pint of cold 
"water and cup of sugar mixed with some flavoring; turn it into the 6auce-pai| 
with the browned sugar, and let it simmer for ten minutes; then add half a glass 
of brandy or a glass of wine. The wine or brandy may be omitted if pareferred. 

A GOOD, PLAIN SAUCE. 
A good sauce to go with plain fruit puddings is made by mining one cupful 
of brown sugar, one cupful of best molasses, half a cupful of butter, one large 
teaspoonful of flour; add the juice and grated rind of one lemon, half a nutmeg, 
grated, bplf a teaSpoonful of cloves and cinnamon. When these are all stirred 
together, add a teacupful of boiling water; stir it constantlyv pat into a sauce- 
pan and kft it boil until dear; thea sti^Hi 



$74 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

OLD-STYLE SAUCE 

One pint of sour cream, the juice and finely grated rind of a large lemonj 
sugar to taste. Beat hard and longimtil the sauce is very light. This is delic- 
ious with cold " Brown Betty "—a form of cold farina, corn-starch, blanc-mange, 
and the like. 

PLAIN .COLD, HARD SAUCE 

Stir together one cupful of white sugar, and half a cupful of butter, until it 
is creamy and hght; add flavoring to taste. This is very nice, flavored with the 
juice of raspberries or strawberries, or beat into it a cupful of ripe strawberries 
or raspberries and the white of ein egg, beaten stiS. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 

One cupful of sugar, two beaten eggs, one pint of milk, flavoring to taste, 
brandy or wine if preferred. 

Heat the milk to boiling, add by degrees the beaten eggs and sugar, put 
in the flavoring, and set within a pan of boiling water; stir until it begins to 
thicken; then take it ofip, and stir in the brandy or wine gradually; set, until 
wanted, within a pan of boiling water. 

MILK SAUCE. No. 1. 
Dissolve a tablespoonful of flour in cold milk; see that it is free from, lumps. 
Whisk an ounce of butter and a cupful of sugar to a cream, and add to it a 
pinch of salt. Mix together half a pint of milk, one e^, and the flour; stir this 
into the butter, and add a dash of nutmeg, or any flavor; heat until near the 
boiling point, and serve^ Very nice in place of cold cream.. 

MILK OR CREAM SAUCE 
Cream or rich milk, simply sweetened with plenty of white sugar and flavored, 
answers the purpose of some kinds of pudding, and can be made very quickly. 

FRUIT SAUCE. 
Two thirds of a cupful of sugar, a pint of raspberries or strawberries, a table- 
spoonftd of melted butter and a cupful of hot water. Boil all together slowly, 
removing the scum as fast as it rises; then strain through a. sieve. This is 
very good served with dumplings or apple puddings. 

JELLY SAUCE. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of sugar and half a cupful of jelly over the fire in a 
oanftjl of boiling water, adding also two tablespoonfuls of butter; then stir into 



CAUCUS JtfOR PUDDINGS, 37S 

«6 a teaspoonfnl of corn^starch, disolved in half a cupful of water or wine; add 
it to the jelly, and let it come to a bolL Set it in a dish of hot water to keep it 
warm until time to serve; stir occaaionaliy. Any fi-uit jelly can be used. 

COMMON SWEET SAUCE. 

Into a pint of water stir a paste made of a tablespooonful of com-starch or 
flour (nibbed smooth with a little cold water); add a cupful of sugar and a table* 
spoonful of vinegar. Cook well for three minutes. Take from the fire and add 
a piece of butter as large as a small egg; when cool, flavor with a tablespoonful 
of vanilla or lemon extract-. 

SYRUP FOR FRUIT SAUCE. 

Ab excellent syrup for fruit sauce is made of Morello cherries (red, sctur 
jiherries). For each pound of cherry juice, allow half a pound of sugar and six 
pherry kernels ; seed the cherries and let them stand in a bowl over night ; in 
the morning, press them thj'ough a fine cloth which has been dipped in boiling 
water ; weigh the juice, add the sugar, boil fifteen minutes, removing all the 
scum. Fill small bottles that are perfectly diy vkith the syrup; when it is cold, 
cork the bottles tightly, seal them and keep them in a cool place, standing 
jipright. 

Most excellent to put into pudding sauces. 

ROSE BRANDY. (For Cakes and Puddings.) 

Gather the leaves of roses while the dew is on~them, and as soon as they 
open, put them into a wide-mouthed bottle, and when the bottle is full, pour in 
the best of fourth proof French brandy. 

It will be fit for use in three or four weeks, and may be frequently replenished. 
It is sometimes considered preferable to wine as a flavoring to pastries and pud- 
ding sauces.. 

^EMON BRANDY. (For Calces and Puddings.) 
When you use lemons for punch or lemonade, do not throw away ine peels, 
but cut them in small pieces— the thin yellow outside (the thick part is not good), 
and put them in a glass jar or bottle of brandy. You will find this brandy useful 
for many purposes. 

In the ijune way keep for use the kernels of peach and plum stones, pouna 
,iBg them di^^tly before you put them mto the brandy. 



Fruit for preserving should, be sound and free from all defects, using white 
sugar, and also that which is dry, which produces the nicest syrup; dark sugar 
can be used by being clariiied, which is done by dissolving two pounds of sugar 
in a pint of water; add to it the white of an egg, and beat it well, put it into a 
preserving kettle on the fire, and stir with a wooden spoon. Ab soon as it begins 
to swell and boQ up, throw in a little cold water; let it boil up again, tfike it off, 
and remove the scum; boil it again, throw in more cold water, and remove the 
scum ; repeat until it is dear and pours like oil from the spooiL 

In the old way of preserving, we used pound for pound, when they were kept 
in stone jars or crocks; now, as most preserves are put up in sealed jars or cans, 
less sugar seems sufScient; three-quarters of a jpoiuid of sugar is generally all 
that is required, for a pound of fruit. 

Fruit should he boiled in 4 porcelain-lined or granite-ware dish, if possible; 
but other utensils, copper or metial, if made bright and clean, answer as welL 

Any of the fruits, that have been preserved in syrup may be converted into 
dry preserves, by first draining them from the syrup, and then drying them in a 
stove or very moderate oven, adding to them a quantity of powdered loaf sugar, 
which will ^adnaDy penetrate £he.fruit,, while the fluid parts of the syrup gently 
evaporate. They should be dried in the stove or oven on a sieve, void ttuTied 
every six or eight hours, fresh powdered sugar being sifted over them every time 
they are tutlied. Afterwards, they are to be kept in a dry situation, in drawers 
or boxes. Currants and cherries preserved whole m this manner, in bunches,; 
are extreinely elegant, and have a finie. flavor. : In this^way it is, also, that 
orange and lemon, chips are preserved. 

1 Mold can be prevented frCm forming on fruit j^Uesby pouring a little melted 
paraffine over the toj^ When cool, it wHl harden to a solid cake^ which can be 
easily removed when the jeQy is used^ and &aved to use over again aaother yean 
It is perfectly harmless and tasteless. 



rJlSSMKFMS, JELUBS, ETC 377 

Large glass tumUere are the iMst for Jceeping jellies, mtuA bettor thaa large 
vessels, for by being opened frequently they soon spoil; a paper should be oat to 
fit, and placed over the jelly; then put on the, lid or covqt, with thick pE^Mr 
rubbed over on the inside with the white of an egg.. 

l?her« cannot be too much care taken in selecting fruit for jellies, for if the 
fnut is over ripe, any amount of time in boiling win never make it jelly,— there 
is \^ere so many fail in making good jelly; and another important matter is 
ov^ooked— that of carefully skimming off the juice after it begins to boil and 
a scum rises from the bottom to the top; the juice should not be stirred, but the 
scum catefuUy taken off: if allowed to boil imdter, the jelly will not be clear. 

When either preserves or canned fruits show any indications of fermenta^ 
tion, they should be, immediately resiled with more sugar, to save them. It is 
much better to be generous with the sugar ^t first, than to have any losses after- 
wards. Seep an preserves in a cooL dry closet 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 
Take large, ripe Morelkc dierries; weigh them, and to each pound allow a 
pound of loaf sugar. Stone the cherries, (opening them with a sharp quill,) and 
save the juice that comes from them in the process. As you stone them, throw 
them into a large pan or tureen, and strew about half the sugar over them, and 
let them lie in. it an hour or two after they are all stoned. Then put them into 
a preserving-kettle with the remainder of the sugai;, and boil and skim them till 
the fruit is dear and the syrup thick. 

PRESERVED CRANBERRIES. 
Tbe craaberriet must be laige and ripe. Wash them, and to six quarts of 
oraid)ertie6 aSow nine pounds of the best loaf sugar. Take three quarts of the 
cianberriee, and put them Into a stew-pan with a pint and a half of water. 
Cover the pan, and bdl or stew them till they are all to piecest Then squeeze 
the juioe through a jeQy bag. Put the sugar into a preserving kettle, pour the 
cranbeny juice over it, and let it stand until it is all melted, stirring it up fre- 
quently. Then place the kettle over the fire, and put in the remaining three 
quarts of whole cranberries. Let them bofl tin they are tender, clear, and of a 
bight color, alritniniTig them frequently. When done, put them warm into jars 
witti the syn^, which should be like a thick jdly. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 
For every pound of fruit wei^ a poomd ef refined sugar, put. them with the 
over tiie fli« in a porcelatn kettle, bring to a boil dowly about twenty 



37» fXESBKVBS, /MLUMS. MTC 

jbiimies. Take fhem oat oarefuOy with a perforated skimmer, and fill your hoi 
jars jxearly full;, boil the juice a tevr minutes longer, and fiU up the jars; seal 
tbedi hot Keep in a cool, dry place. 

To PRESERVE BERRIES WHOLE. CBxcenent) 

Buy the fruit when hot too ripe, pick over immediate^,, wdsh if absolutely 
necessary, and put in glass jars, filling each one about two-thirds fuH 

Put in the preserving kettle a pound of sugar and one cupful of water for 
every two pounds of fruit, and let it come slowly to a boiL Pour this syrup into 
the jars over the berries, filling them up to the brim; then set the jars in a pot 
of oold water on the stove, and let the water boil and the fruit become scalding 
hot. Now take them out and seal perfectly tight If this process is followed 
tboroughly, the fruit will keep for several years. 

PRESERVED EGG PLUMS. 
Use a pound of sugar for a pound of plimis; wash the plums, and wipe dry; 
put the sugar on a slow fire in (he preserving-kettle, with as much water as 
will melt the sugar, and let it simmer slowly; then prick each plum thoroughly 
with a needle, or a fork with fine prongs, and place a layer of them in the syrup; 
let them cook until they lose their color a Uttle and the skins b^;ui to break; 
then lift them out with a perforated skimmer, and place them singly in a large 
dish to cool; then put another layer of plums in the syrup, and let them cook 
and cool in the same nmnner, until the whole are done; as they cool, carefully 
replace the broken skins so as not to spofl the appearance of the plums; when 
the last layer is finished, return the first to the kettle, and boil until transparent; 
do the same with each la)'er; while the latest cooked are cooling, place the first 
in glass jars; when all are done, pour the hot syrup over them; when they are 
cold, close as usual; the jelly should be of the color and cohsistency of rich wine 
jelly. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Peaches for preserving may be ripe but not soft; cut them in halves, take out 
the stones, and pare them neatly; take as many pounds of white sugar as of 
fruit, put to each pound of sugar g, teacupful of water; stir it until it is dissolved; 
set it over a moderate fire; when it is boiling hot, put in the peaches; let them 
boil gently imtil a pure, clear, uniform color; turn those at the bottom to the top 
carefully with a skimmer several times; do not hurry them. When they are 
clear, take each half up vnth a spoon, and spread the halves on flat dishes to 
become cold. When all are done, let the syrup boil until it is quite thick; pour it 



PJtESSUVJSS, JSLZJSS, ETC J79 

Into a lai^ pitcher, and lei it set to cool and settle. .When the peaches are cold 
pat them carefully into jars, and pour the syrup over them, leaving any sedi- 
tnent which has settled at the bottom, or strain the syrup. Some of the kernels 
from the peach-stones may be put in with the peaches while boUing. Let them 
remain open one night, then cover. 

' In hke manner quince, plum, apricot, apple, cherry, greengage and othei 
fruit preserves are made; in every case fine large fruit should be taken, free 
&om imperfections, and the slightest bruises or other fault should be removed^ 

PRESERVED GREEN TOMATOES. 
Take one peck of green tomatoes. Slice six fresh lemons without removing 
the skins, but taking out the seeds; put to this quantity six pounds of sugar, 
common white, and boil until transparent and the syrup thick. Ginger root 
may be added, if liked. 

PRESERVED APPLES. (Whole.) 
Ped and core large firm apples (pippins are best). Throw them into water 
as you pare them. Boil the parings in water for fifteen minutes, allowing a 
pint to one pound of fruit. Then strain, and, adding three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar to each pint of water, aS measured at first, with enough lemon-peel, 
orange-peel or mace, to impart .a pleasant flavor, return to the kettle. When 
the syrup has been well-skimmed and is clear, pour it boiling hot over the 
apples, which must be drained from the water in which they have hitherto 
stood. Let them remain in the syrup imtS both are perfectly cold, Theiiy 
covering closely, let them simmer over a slow fire imtil transparent. When all 
the minutiae of these directions are attended to, the fruit will remain unbroken, 
and present a beautiful and inviting appearanca 

PRESERVED QUINCES. 
Pare, core and quarter your fruit, then weigh it and allow an equal quantity 
of white eugar. Take the parings and cotcs, and put in a preserving-kettle; 
cover them with water and boO for half an hour; then strain through a hair 
eieve, and put the juice back into the kettle and boU fhe quinces in it a Httle at a 
tfane unta they are tender; lift out as they are done with a drafiifr itiS^ lay on 
a dish; if the liquid seems scarce add more water. When aU are cooked, throw 
Into this Uquor the sugar, and allow it to boa ten minutes before putting in the 
quinces; let them boil until they change color, say one hour and a quarter, on a 
atow fire; while they are boiling occasionally slip a silver spoon under them to 
Me that they do not bum. but on no account stir them. Have two freah lemooi 
M 



38o PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC 

cut in thin slices, and when the fruit is being put in jars lay a slice or two in each. 
Quinces may be steamed until tender. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

One pound of fruit, one pound of sugar; pare off the peeling thin. Make a 
nice syrup of nearly one cupful of -water and one pound of sugar, and when 
clarified by boiling and skimming put in the pears and stew gently until clear. 
Choose rather pears like the SecMe for. preserving, both on account of the flavor 
and size, A nice way is to stick a dove in the blossom end of each pear, for. 
this fruit seems to require some extraneous flavor to bring out its own piqviancy. 
Another acceptable addition to pear preserves may be found instead, by adding 
the juice and thinly pared rind of one lemon to each five pounds of fruit. If the 
pears.are hard and tough, parboil them until tender before beginning to pre- 
serve, and from the same water take what you need for making their syrup. 

If you can procure only large pears to preserve, cut them into halves, or even 
slices, so that they can get done more quickly, and lose nothing in appearance, 
eiiher. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 

Twist off the top and bottom, and pai'e off the rough outside of pineapples; 
then weigh them and cut them in slices, chips or quarters, or cut them in four 
or six, and shape each piece like a whole pineapple; to each pound of fruit, put a 
teacupful of water; put it! in a'' preserving kettle, cover it and set it over the 
fire, and let them boil gently imtil they are tender and clear; then take them 
from the water, by sticking a fork in the centre of each slice, or with a skimmer, 
into a dish. 

Put to the water white sugar, a pound for each pound of fruit; stir it until it 
is all dissolved; then put in the pineapple, cover the kettle, and let them boil 
gently until transparent thoughout; when it is so, take it out, let it cool, and 
put if in glass jars; let the syrup boil or simmer gently until it is thick and rich, 
and when nearly cool, pour it over the fruit. The next day secure the jars, as 
before directed. 

Pineapple done in this way is a beautiful and delicious preserve. Tlie usual 
manner of preserving it, by putting it into the syrup without first boiling it, 
caakes it little better than sweetened leather. 

TO PRESERVE WATERMELON RIND AND CITRON. 
Pai» off flu green ^dn, cut the waterman rixid into pieces. Weigh tb* 
piaoea, aod aBsv CO each pound a ponsd and a half of loaf su^ir. Line your 



PSESEKVJSS, JELLIES, ETC. jfit 

leetile with green vine-leaves, and put in \ba pieces without the sugar. A layer 
of vine-leaves must cover each layer of melon rind. Pour in water to cover the 
whcde, and place a thick cloth over the kettle. Simmer the fruit for two hours, 
after scattering a few bits of alum amongst it. Spread the melon rind on a dish 
to cool. Melt the sugar, using a pint of water to a pound and a half of sugar, 
and mix with it some beaten white of egg. Boil and skim the sugar. When 
quite clear, put in the rind, and let it boil two hoiirs; take out the rind, boil 
the syrup again, pour it over the rind, and let it remain aU night. The next 
morning, boil the syrup with lemon-juice, allowing one lemon to a quart of 
syrup. When it is thick enough to hang in a drop from the point of a ^poon, it 
is done. Put the rind in jars, and pour over it the syrup. It is not fit for use 
immediately. 

Citrons may be preserved in the same manner, first paring off the outer skin, 
and cutting them into quarters. Also green limes. 

TO PRESERVE AND DRY GREENGAGES. 

To every pound of sugar allow one pound of fruit, one quarter pint of water. 

For this purpose, the fruit must be used before it is quite ripe, and j^rt of 
the stalk must be left on. Weigh the fruit, rejecting all that is in the least 
degree blemished, and put it into a lined* sauce-pan with the sugar and water, 
which should have been previously boiled together to a rich, syrup. Boil the 
fruit in this for ten minutes, remove it from the fire, and drain the greengages. 
The next day boil up the syrup and put in the fruit again, let it simmer for 
three minutes, and drain the syrup away. Continue this process for five or 
six days, and the last time place the greengages, when dramed, on a hair-sieve, 
and put them in an oven or warm spot to dry; keep them in a box, vrith paper 
between each layer, in a place free from damp. 

PRESERVED PUMPKINS. 

To each pound of pumpkin allow one pound of roughly pounded loaf, sugar, 
one gill of lemon- juice. 

Obtain a good, sweet pumpkin; halve it, take out the seeds, and pare off Uie 
rind; cut it into neat slices. Weif h the pnmpldn, put the slices in a pan or deep 
dish in layers, with the sugar' epiiDklBd betwewi thera; pour the lemaa-juice 
over the top, and let the wh^ rem«fiB for two or three days. Boil all together, 
adding half a pint of water to every three pounds ©f sugar used until the 
pump^n becomes tender; then turn the whole into a pan, where 1ft it i»main 
for a we*; then diaua off the syrup, 1^3 it unfd it is quite thtcfc^ skhn, and 



3** M-esEgyes, jellies, etc 

pour It boiling over the pumpkin. A little bruised ginger, and lemoQ-nnd! 
thinly pared, may be boiled in tlie symp to flavor the pumpkin. 

— A Soulkern recipe^ 

PRESERVING FRUIT. (New Mode,) 

Housekeepers who dislike the tedious old-time fashion of clarifying sugar 
and boiling the fruit, will appreciate the following two recipes, no fire being 
heeded in their preparation. The fii-st is for "tutti frutti," and has been re- 
peatedly tested with unvarying success. 

Put one quart of white, preserving, fine Batavia brandy mto a ; wo gallon 
stone jar that has a tightly fitting top. Then for every pound of fruit, in prime 
condition and perfectly dry, which you put in the brandy, use three-quarters of 
a pound of granulated sugar; stir every day so that the sugar will be dissolved, 
using a cleau, wooden spoon kept for the purpose. Evei-y sort of fruit may be 
used, beginning with strawberries and ending with plums. Be sure and have at 
least one pound of black cherries, as they make the color of the preserve very 
rich. Strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, apricots, cherries (sweet and sour), 
peaches, plums, are all used, and, if you like, currants and grapes. Plums and 
grapes should be peeled and seeded, apricots and peaches peeled and cut in 
quarters or eighths or dice; cherries also must be seeded: quinces may be steamed 
until tender. The jar must be kept in a cool, dry place, and the daily stirring 
must never be fot^otten, for that is the secret of success. You may use a3 much 
of one sort of fruit as you like, and ijt may be put in from day to day, just as 
you happen to have it. Half the quantity of spirits may be used. The preserve 
will be ready for use within a week after the last fruit is put in, and will keep 
for a number of months. We have found it good eight months after making. 

The second is as foUows: Take some pure white vinegar and mix with it 
granulated sugar until a syrup is formed quite free from acidity. Pour this 
syrup into earthen jars and put in it good, perfectly ripe fruit, gathered in dry 
weather.. Cover the jars tight, and put them in a dry place. The contents will, 
keep for six or eight months, and the flavor of the fruit will be excellent. 
TO PRESERVE FRUIT WITHOUT SUGAR. 

Cherries, strawbenies, sliced pineapple, plums, apricots, gooseberries, etc., 
may be preserved in the following manner— to be used the same as fresh fruit. , 
-- Gather the fruit before it is very ripe; put it in wide- mouthed bottles made 
for the purpose; fill them as full as they wiU hold, and cork them tight; seal the 
corks; put some hay in a large saucepan, set in the bottles, with^^gy between 
them to [Advent their touching; thenfill the saucepan with water to the necks 



J»Jl£S£JiyeS, JELLIES, ETC. J83 

of the bottles, and set it over the fire until the water 13 nearly boiling, then take 
it off; let it stand until the bottles are cold. Keep them in a cool place until 
wanted, when the fruit \viU be found equal to fresh. 

NEW METHOD OF PRESERVING FRUIT. 
A new method of preserving fruit is practiced in England, Pears, apples 
and other fruits are reduced to a paste by jamming, which is then pressed into 
cakes and gently dried. When required for use it is only necessary to pour four 
times their weight of boiling water over them, and allow them to soak for twenty 
minutes, and then add sugar to suit the taste. The fine flavor of the fruit is 
said to be retained to perfection. The cost of the prepared product is scarcely 
greater than that of the origmal fruit, differing with the supply and price of the 
latter; the keeping qualities are excellent, so that it may be had at any time of 
the year, and bears long sea-voyagea without detriment. No peeling or coring 
is required so there is no waste. 

FRUIT JELLIES. 

Take a stone jar and put in the fruit, place this in a kettle of tepid water, 
and set on the fire; let it boil closely covered, vmtil the fniit is broken, to pieces; 
strain, pressing the bag, a stout, coarse one, hard, putting in a few handfuls 
each time, and between each squeezing turning it inside ouir to scald off the pulp 
and skins; to each pint of juice aUow a pound of loaf sugar; set the juice on 
alone to boil, and while it is boiling, put the sugar into shallow dishes or pans, 
and heat it in the oven, watching and stirring the sugar to prevent burning; 
boil the juice just twenty minutes from the time it begins fairly to boil; by this 
time the sugar should be vtry hot; throw the sugar into the boiling juice, stir- 
ring rapidly all the time; withdraw the spoon when all is thoroughly dissolved; 
let the jelly come to a boil to make all certain; withdraw the kettle instantly 
from the fire; roll your glasses and cups in hot water, and fiU with the scalding 
liquid; the jelly will form within an hour: when cold, close and tie up as you 
do preserves. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Currants for jelly should be perfectly ripe and gathered the first week of 
the season ; they lose their jelly property if they hang on the bushes too 
long, and become too juicy— the juice will not be apt to congeal. Strip them 
from the stalks, put them into a stone jar, and set it in a vessel of hot water 
over the fire; keep the water around it boiling until the currants are all broken, 
stirring them up occasionally. Then squeeze them through a coarse cloth or 
towel To each pint of juice aUow a i>ound and a quarter of refined sugar. _. Put 



3«4 PRESERVES. JELLIES, ETC. 

the sugar into a porcelain kettle, pour the juice over it, stirring frequently. 
Skim it before it boils; boil about twenty minutes, or until It congeals in the 
spoon when held in the air. Pour it into hot jelly glasses and seal when cool. 
Wild frost grape jelly is nice made after this recipe. 

CURRANT JELLY. (New Method.) 

This recipe for making superior jelly without heat is given in a Parisian 
journal ci chemistry, which may be worth trying by some of our readers. The 
currants are to be washed and squeezed in the usual way, and the juice placed 
in a stone or earthen vessel, and set away in a cool place in the cellar. In about 
twenty-four hours a considerable amount of froth will cover the surface, pro- 
duced by fermentation, and this ibust be removed, and the whole strained again 
through the jelly bag, then weighed, and an equal weight of powdered white 
sugar is to be added. This is to be stirred constantly until entirely dissolved, 
and then put into jars, tied up tightly, and set away. At the end of another 
twenty-four hours a perfectly transparent jelly of the most 8a,tisfactory flavor 
will be formed, which will keep as long as if it had been cooked., 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Quinces for jeUy should not be quite ripe, they should be a fine yellow; rub 
ofiF the down from them, core them, and cut them small; put them in a preserv- 
ing kettle with a teacupful of water for each poimd; let them stew gently until 
soft, without mashing; put them in a thin muslin bag vsrith the Uquor; press 
them very lightly; to each pint of the liquor put a pound of sugar; stir it until 
it is all dissolved, then set i£ over the fire, and let it boil gently, until by cooling 
some on a plate you find it a good jelly; then turn it into pots or tumblers, and 
when cold, seciu-e as directed for jellies. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. 
To each pint of juice allow one pound of sugar. Let the raspberries be freshly 
gathered, quite ripe, picked from the stalks; put them into a large jar after 
breaking the fruit a httle with a wooden spoon, and place this jar, covered, in a 
sauce- pan of boiling water. When the juice is well drawn, which will be in 
from three-quarters to one hour, strain the fruit through a ' fine hair sieve or 
cloth; measui-e the juice, and to every pint allow the above proportion of white 
sugar. Put the juice and sugar into a preserving-pan, place it over the fire, and 
boil gently until the jelly thickens, when a little is poured on a plate; carefully 
remove all the scum as it rises, pour the jelly into small pots, cover down, and 
keep in a dry place. This jelly answers for making raspberry cream, and for 
flavoring various sweet dishes, when, in winter, the fresh fruit is not obtainabla 



TSSSMUVES, JELLIES, ETC. 38$ 

APPLE JELLY. 

Sdect apples that are rather tart and highly flavored; slice them without 
paring; place in a porcelain preserving-kettle, cover with water, and let then) 
cook slowly until the apples look red. Pour into a colander, drain off the juice, 
and let this run through a jelly-bag; return to the kettle, which must be care* 
fully washed, and boil halC an hour; measure it and allow to every pint of juicer 
a pound of sugar and half the juice of a lemon; boil quickly for ten minutes. 

The juice of apples, boiled in shallow vessels, without a particle of sugar, 
makes the most sparkling, delicious jelly imaginable. Eed apples will give jelly 
the color and clearness of claret, while that from light fruit is like amber. Take 
the cider just as it is made, not allowing it to ferment at all, and, if possible, 
boil it in a pan, flat, very large, and shallow. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Mash well the berries so as to remove the skins; pour all into a preserving? 
kettle, and cook slowly for a few minutes to extract the juice; strain through 
a colander, and then through a flannel jelly-bag, keeping as hot as possible, for 
if not allowed to cool before putting again on the stove the jeUy comes much 
stiffer; a few quince seeds boiled with the berries the first time tend to stiffen 
it; measure the juice, allowing a poimd of loaf sugar to every pint of juice, and 
boil fast for at least half an hour. Try a littte, and if it seems done^ remove 
and put into glasses. 

FLORIDA ORANGE JELLY. 

Grate the yellow rind of two Florida oranges and two lemons, and squeeze 
the juice into a porcelain-lined preserving-kettle, adding the juice of two more 
oranges, and removing all the seeds; put in the grated rind a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, or more if the fruit is sour, and a gill of water, and boil these ingre- 
dients together until a rich S3rrup is formed; meantime, dissolve two ounces of 
gelatine in a quart of warm water, stirring it over the fire until it is entirely dis. 
solved; then add the syrup, strain the jelly, and cool it in molds wet in cold water. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

The apples should be juicy and ripe. The fruit is then quartered, the bla^ 

spots in the cores removed, afterward put into a preserving-kettle over the fire,' 

'. with a teacupful of water in the bottom to prevent burning; more water is added 

. as it evaporates while cooking. When boiled to a pulp, strain the apples through 

'• coarse flannel, then proceed as for currant jelly. 



386 J>/iES£Jiy£S, JELLIES, ETC 

PEACH JELLY. 

Pare the peaches, take out the stones, then slice them; add to them about a 
quarter of the kernels. Place them in a kettle with enough watei* to cover 
them. Stir them often until the fruit is well cooked, then strain, and to eveiy pint 
of the juice add the juice of a lemon; measure again, allowing a pound of sugar 
to each pint of juice; heat the sugar very hot, and add when the juice has boiled 
twenty minutes; let it come to a boil, and take instantly from the fire. 

ORANGE SYRUP. 

Pare the oranges, squeeze and strain the juice from the pulp. To one pint of 
juice allow one pound and three-quarters of loaf sugar. Put the juice and sugar 
together, boil and skim it imtil it is cream; then strain it through a flannel bag, 
and let it stand until it becomes cool, then put in bottles and cork tight. 

Lemon syrup is made in the same way, except that you scald the lemons, 
and squeeze out the juice, allowing rather more sugar. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Allow pound for pound. Pare half the oranges, and cut the rind into shreds. 
Boil in three waters until tender, and. set aside. Grate the rind of the remaining 
oranges; take off, and throw away every bit of the thick white inner skin; 
quarter all the oranges and take out the seeds. Chop, or cut them into small 
pieces; drain all the juice tliat will come away, without pressing them, over the 
sugar; heat this, stirring until the sugai- is dissolved, adding a very little water, 
unless the oranges ai-e very juicy. Boil and skim five or six minutes; put in 
the boiled shreds, and cook ten minutes; then the chopped fruit and grated peel, 
and boil twenty minutes longer. When. cold, put iato small jars, tied up with 
bladder or paper next the fruit, cloths dipped in wax over all. A nicer way still 
' is to put away in tumblers with self-adjusting metal tops. Press brandied 
tissue paper down closely to the fruit. 

LEMON MARMALADE 

'Is.madeas'you would prepai-e orange — allowing a poimd and a quarter of 
sugar to a pound of the fiiait, and using but half the gratfed peeL 

RAISINS, (A French Marmalade.) 
This recipe is particularly valuable at seasons when fruit is scarce. Take six 
fine large cooking apples, peel them, put them over a slow fii-e, together with a 
wineglassful of Madeira wine, and half pound of sugar. When well stewed, split 



PRESEJiyES. JELLIES, ETC. ^f 

and stone two and a half pounds of raisins, and put them td stew Vidth the 
apples, and enough water to prevent their bm-ning. When ail appears well 
dissolved, beat it through a strainer bowl, and lastly through a sieve. Mold, i£ 
you Uke, or put away in small preserve jars, to cut in thin slices for the orna- 
mentation of pastry, or to dish up for eating with cream. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 
To each pound of fine, and not too ripa ben'ies, allow three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar. Put them int6 a preserving pan, and stir gently, not to break 
up the fruit; simmer for one-half hour, and put into pots air-tight. An excel- 
lent way to seal jellies and jams is as the German women do: Cut round covera 
from writing paper a half-inch too large for the tops, smear the inside with the 
unbeaten wliito of an egg, tie over with a cord, and it win dry quickly and ba 
absolutely preservative. A circular paper dipped in brandy, and laid over the 
toothsome contents before covering, will prevout any dampness from affecting 
the flavor. I have removed those covers heavy with mould to find the pre- 
serve intact. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Pick the gooseberries just as they b?gia to tam, Stemj wash and weigh. 
To four pounds of fruit add half a teacuj. Tyl of water: bcil until soft and add 
four pounds of sugar and boil until clear. If picked at the right stage the jam 
will be amber-colored and firm, and very much nicer than if the fruit is pre- 
served when ripe. 

BRANDIED PEACHES OR PEARS. 

Pour pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one pint of best white brandy. 
Make a syrup of thesugar and enough water to dissolve it. Let this come to a 
boil; put the fruit in and boil five minutes. Having removed the fruit carefully, 
let the syrup boil fifteen minutes longer, or until it thickens well; add the 
brandy, and take the kettle at once from the fire; pour the hot syrup over the 
fruit, and seal. If, after the fruit is taken from the fire, a reddish liquor oozes 
from it, drain this off before adding the clear syrup. Put up in glass jars^ 
Peaches and pears should be peeled for brandying. Plums should be pricked 
and watched carefully for fear of bursting. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To five or six pounds of fine red raspberries (not too ripe) add an equal quan- 
tity of the finest quality of white sugar. Mash the whole well in a preserving 
kettle; add about one quart of currant j nice (a littk less wiE do)ijmd boil gently 



388 PSESERyES, JELLIES. ETC. 

until it jellies upon a cold plate; then put into small jars; cover with brandied 
paper, and tie a thick white paper over them. Keep in a dark, dry and cool 
place. 

Blackberry or strawberry jam ia made in the same way, leaving out the 
currant juice. 

A NEW WAY OF KEEPING FRUIT. 

It is stated that experiments have been made in keeping fruit in jars covered 
only with cotton batting, and at the end of two years the fruit was sound. The 
following directions are given for the process: Use crocks, stone butter-jars or 
any other convenient dishes. Prepare and cook the fruit precisely as for can- 
ning in glass jars; fill your dishes with fruit while hot, and immediately cover 
with cotton batting, securely tied on. Bemember that all putrefaction is caused 
by the invisible creatures in the air. Cooking the fruit expels all these, and 
they cannot pass through the cotton batting. The fruit thus protected will 
keep an indefinite period. It will be remembered that Tyndall has proved 
that the atmospheric germs cannot pass through a layer of cotton. 

MACEDOINES. 

Suspend in the center of the jelly mold a bunch of grapes, cherries, berries, 
or currants on their stems, sections of oranges, pineapples, or brandied fruits, 
and pour in a little jelly when quite cold, but not set. It makes a very agree- 
able effect. By a little ingenuity you can embed first one fruit and then an- 
other, arranging in circles, and pour a little jelly successively over each. Do 
not re-heat the jelly, but keep it in a warm place, while the mold is on ice 
and the first layers are hardening. 



Berries and all ripe, mellow fruit require but little cooking, only long enough 
for the Bugar to penetrate. Strew sugar oyer them, allow them to stand a few 
hours, then merely scald with the sugar; half to three-quarters of a pound is 
considered sufficient. ^ Harder fruits like pears, quinces, etc., require longer 
boiling. 

The great secret of canning is to make the fruit or vegetable perfectly air- 
tight. It must be put up boiUng hot, and the vessel filled to the brim. 

Have your jars conveniently placed near your boiling fruit, in a tin pan of 
hot water on the stove, roU them in the hot water, then fill immediately with 
the hot, scalding fruit, fill to the top, and seal quickly with the tops, which 
should also be heated; occasionally screw down the tops tighter, as the fruit 
Bhrinks as it cools, and the glass contracts,, and allows the air to enter the cans. 
They mdist be perfectly air-tight. The jars to be kept in a dark, cool, dry place. 

Use glass jars for fruit always, and the fruit should be cooked in a porcelain 
or granite-iron kettle. . K you are obliged to use common large-mouthed bottles 
with corks, steam the corks and pare them to a close fit, driving them in with a 
mallet.. Use the following wax for sealing: one pound of resin, three ounces of 
beeswax, one and one-half ounces of tallow. Use a brush in covering the corks, 
and as they cool, dip the mouth into the melted wax. Place in a basin of cool 
water. Pack in a cool, dark, and dry cellar. After one week, examine for 
flaws, cracks or signs of ferment. 

The rubber rings used to assist in keeping the air from the fruit cans some- 
times become so dry and brittle as to be almost useless. They can be restored to 
normal condition usually by letting them lie in water in which you have put a 
little ammonia. Mix in this proportion: One part of ammonia and two parts 
water. Sometimes they do not need to lie in this more than five minutes, but 
frequently a half-hour is needed to restore their elasticity. 



390 CANNED FRUITS, 

CANNED PEACHES. 

To cae pound of peaches allow lialf a pound of sugar; to six pounds of sugar, 
add half a tumbler of water; put in the kettle a layer of sugar and on6 of peaches 
until the whole of both are in. Wash, about eight peach-leaves, tie them up 
and put into the kettle, remembering to take them out when you begin to fill up 
the jars. Let the sugared fruit remain on the range, but away from the fire, 
until upon tipping the vessel to one side you can see.some liquid; then fill the 
jars, taking them out of hot water into which they were put when cold, remain' 
ing until.it was made to boil around them. In this way you will find out if the 
glass has been properly annealed; for we consider glass jars with stoppers screw- 
ing down upon Indiarrubber rings as the best for canning fruit in families. 
They shotild be kept in a dark closet; and although somewhat more expensive 
than tin in the first instance, are much nicer, and keep for years with careful 
usage. 

Fruit miut be of flue flavor, and npe, though not soft, to make nice canned 
fruit. 

Peaches should be thrown into cold water as they are peeled, to prevent a 
yellowish crust. 

CANNED GRAPES. 

There is no fruit so difficult to can nicely as the grape; by observing the fol- 
lowing instructions you will find the grapes rich and tender a year from putting 
up. Squeeze the pulp from the skin, as the seeds are objectionable; boil the 
pulp until the seeds begin to loosen, in one kettle, having the skins boiling in a 
little water, hard, in another kettle, as they are tough. When the pulp seems 
tender, put it through the sieve; then add the skins, if tender, with (he water 
they boil in, if not too much. We use a large coflfee-cupf ul of sugar for a qu£irt 
can; boil until thick, and can in the usual way. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

After the berries are picked over, let as many as can be put carefully in the 
preserve kettle at once be placed on a platter. To each pound of fruit add 
three-fourths of a poimd of sugar; let them stand two or three hours, till the 
juice is drawn from them; pour it into the kettle and let it come to a boil, and 
remove the scUm which rises; then put in the berries very carefuDy. As soon 
as they come thoroughly to a boil put them in warm jars, and seal while boiling 
hot. 



CANNED FRUITS. 391 

TO CAN QUINCES, 
Cut the quinces into thin slices like apples for pies. To one quart jarful of 
quince, take a ooffee-saucer and a half of sugar, and a coffee-cupful of water; 
put thesngar and water on the fire, and when boiling put in the qmnces; have 
ready the Jars with their f astenings> stand the jars in a pan of boiling water on 
the stove, and when the quince is cleavand tender put rapidly into the jars, fruit 
and syrup together. The jars must be filled so that the syrup overflows, and 
fastened up tight as .quickly as possible, 

CANNED PINEAPPLE. 
For six pounds of fruit, when cut and ready to can, make syrup with two 
and a half pounds of sugar and nearly three pints of water; boil, ^rup five' 
minutes and sldm or strain if necessary; then add the fruit, and let it boil up; 
have cans hot, fill and shut up as soon as* possible. Use the best white sugar. 
As the cans cool, keep tightening them up. Cut the fruit half an inch thick. 

CANNED FRUIT JUICES. 
Canned fruit juices aro an excellent substitute for brandy or wine in all 
pv.ddings and sauces, etc. 

It is a good plan to can the pure juices of~fruit in the sunmaer time, putting it 
by for this purpose: 

Select clean ripe fruit, press out the juice and strain it through a flannel cloth. 
To each pint of juice add one cupful of white granulated sugar. Put it in a 
porcelain kettle, bring it to the boiling point, and bottle while hot in small 
bottles. It must be sealed very tight while it is hot. WiU keep a long time, the 
E^me as canned fruit. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 
Canning tomatoes is quite afimple process. ^ A large or smaJl. quantity may, 
be done at a time, .and they should be put in glass jars in preference to those of 
tin, which are apt to injure the flavor. Very ripe tomatoes are the best for the 
purpose. They are first put into a large pan and covered with boiling water. 
This loosens the skin, which is easily removed, and the tomatoes are then put 
into the preserving kettle, set over a moderate fire without the addition of watev* 
or any seasoning, and brought to a boD. After boiling slowly one-half hour, 
they are put into the jars while boiling hot and sealed tightly. They %vill keep 
two or three years in this way. The jars should be filled to the brim to prevent 
air from getting in, and set in a cool, dark closet. 



39» CANNED SRUITS. 

TO CAN CORN. 

Split the kemeb lengthwise with a knife, then scrape with the back of the 
knife, thns leaving the hulls upon the cob. Fill cans full of cut com, pressing 
it in very hard. To press the com in the can, use the jsmaJl end of a potato 
masher, aa this will enter the can easfly. It will take from ten to a dozen large 
ears of com to fill a one-quart can. When the cans are full, screw cover on vdth 
thumb and first finger; this will be tight enough, then place a cloth in the bottom 
of a wash boiler to prevent breakage. On this put a layer of cans in any posi- 
tion you prefer', over the cans put a layer of cloth, then a layer of cans. Fill the 
boiler in this manner, then cover the cans weU with cold water^ place the boiler 
on the fire, and hoil three hours without ceasing. On steady boiling, depends 
much of your success. After boiling three hours, lift the boiler from the fire, 
let. the water cool, then take the cans from the boiler and ti^ten, let them 
remain until cold, then tighten again. Wrap each can in brovTn paper ..to 
exclude the Ught, and keep in a cool dry cellar and be very sure the rubber rings 
are not hardened by use. The rings should be renewed every two years. I 
would advise the beginner to use new rings entirely, for poor rings cause the 
loss of canned fruit and vegetables in many cases. You will observe that in 
canning com the cans are not wrapped in a cloth nor heated; merely filled virith 
the cut com. The com in the cans will shrink considerably in boiling, but on 
no accoimt open theni after canning, 

TO CAN PEAS. 

Fin the can full of peas, shake the can so they can be filled weQ. You cannot 
press the peas in the can as you did the com, but by shaking the cans they may 
be filTed quite full Pour into the cans enough cold water to fill to overflowing, 
then screw the cover tight as you can vrith your thumb and first finger and 
proceed exactly as in canning com. 

String beans are cut as for cooking and caimed in the same manner. No 

seasoning of salt, pepper or sugar should be added. 

— Mary Ourrivr Parsons. 
CANNED PLUMS. 
\ To every pound of plums allow a quarter of a pound of sugar. ^ Put the sugar 
and plimis alternately into the preserving-kettle, first pricking the plums to pre- 
vent their breaking. Let them stand on the back of the stove for an hour or 
t^o, then put them over a moderate fire, and allow to Come to a boil; skim and 
pour at once into jars, running a silver spoon handle around the inside of the jar 
to break the air-bubbles; cover and screw down the tops. 



CAtttfED FRVtTS. 3«3 

CANNED MINCE-MEAT. 
Mince-meat for pies can be preserved for years if canned the Same as fruit 
while hoi, and put into glass jars and sealed perfectly tight, and set in a coo!, 
dark place. One glass quart jar will hold enough to make two ordinary-sized 
pies, and in this way " mince pies" can be had in the middle of summer as well 
as in winter, and if the cans are sealed properly, the meat will be just as fine 
when opened as when first canned. 

CANNED BOILED CIDER. 

Boiled cider, in our grandmothers time, was indispensable to the making 
of a good "mince pie," adding the proper flavor and richness, which cannot 
be substituted by any other ingredient, and. a gill of which being added to a 
rule of " fruit cake " makes it more moist, keeps longer, and is far superior 
to fruit cake made without it. Boiled cider is an article rarely found in the 
market now-a-days, but can be made by any one with but little trouble and 
expense, using sweet cider, shortly after it is made, and before fermentation 
takes place. Place five quarts of sweet cider in a porcelain-lined kettle over 
the fire, boil it slowly until reduced to one quart, carefully watching it that 
it does not burn; turn into glass jars while hot, and seal tightly, the same 
as canned fruit. It is then ready to use any time of the year. 

CANNED PUMPKIN. 

Pumpkins or squash canned are far more convenient for ready use than 
those dried in the old-fashioned way. 

Cut up pumpkin or squash into small pieces, first cutting off the peel; stew 
tnem untU tender, add no seasoning; then mash them very fine With a potato- 
masher. Have ready your cans, made hot, and then fill them with the hot 
pumpkin or squash, seal tight; place in a dark, cool closet. 

PEACH BUTTER. 

Pare ripe peaches and put them in a preserving-kettle, vrith suflScient water 
to boil them soft; then sift through a colander, removing the sjiones. To each 
quart of peach put one and one-half pound of sugar, and boil very slowly one 
hour. Stir often, and do not let them bum. Put in stone or glass jars, and 
keep in a cool place 



394 CANNED FRUITS. 

PEACHES DRIED WITH SUGAR. 

Peel yellow peaches, cut them from the stone in one piece; allow two 
pounds of sugar to six pounds of fruit; make a syrup of three-quarters of & 
pound of sugar and a little water; put in the peaches, a few at a time, and 
let them cook gently until quite clear. Take them up carefully on a dish, and 
set them in the sun to dry. Strew powdered sugar over them on all sides, a 
little at a time; if any syrup is left, remove to fresh dishes. When they are 
quite dry, lay them lightly in a jar with a little sugar sifted between the layers. 



«N^VjeXa>/'» , ^ 




RED OR PINK COLORING. 
Take two cents worth of cochineal. Lay it on a flat plate, and bruise it 
with the blade of a knife. Put it into half a teacupful of alcohol. Let it 
Btand a quarter of an hour, and then filter it through fine muslin. Alwajs 
ready for immediate use. Cork the bottle tight. 

Strawberry or cranberry juice makes a fine coloring for frosting sweet pud- 
dings and confectionery. 

DEEP RED COLORING. 

Take twenty grains of cochineal, and fifteen grains of cream of tartar 
finely powdered, add to theni a piece of alum the size of a cherry stone, and 
boil them with a gill of soft water, in an earthen vessel, slowly, for half an 
hour. Then strain it through muslin, and keep it tightly corked in a phial. 
If a little alcohol is added, it will keep any length of time. 

YELLOW COLORING. 

Take a little safifron, put it into an earthen vessel with a very small quan 
tity of cold, soft water, and let it steep till the color of the infusion is a bright 
yelk ,/ Then strain it, add half alcohol to it. To color fruit yellow, boil 
the fruit with fresh skin lemons in water to cover them until it is tender^ 
then take it up, spread it on dishes to cool, and finish as may be directed. 

To colorTcing, put the grated peel of a lemon or orange in a th&l miiBlin bag, 
equeezing a little juice through it, then mixing^ with the sugar« 

GREEN COLORING. 
Take fresh spinach or beet leaves, and pound them in a marble mortar. If 
you wtmt it.for immediate use, take oflf the green froth as.it rises, and mix it 
Witt tha article you intend to color. If you wish to keep it » few days, take 

as 



i# COLORING FOR fRUlT, ETC 

tha jiiice when yon have pressed out a teacupful, and adding lo iS a piece of 
alum the size of a pea, give it a boil in a sauce pan. Or make the juice very 
strong and add a quart of alcohol. Bottle it air-tight. 

SUGAR GRAINS. 

These are made by pounding white lump sugar in a mortar and shaking it 
through sieves of different degrees of coarseness, thus accumulating grains of 
different sizes. They are used in ornamenting cake. 

SUGAR GRAINS. COLORED. 

Stir a little coloring— As the essence of spinach, or prepared cochineal, or liquid 
carmine, or indigo, rouge, saffron, etc., — into the sugar grains made as above, un- 
til each grain is stained, then spread them on a baking-sheet, and dry them in 
a warm place. They are used iij ornamenting cake. 

CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR. 

Put one cupful of sugar and two teaspoonfuls of water in a sauce-pan on the 
fire; stir constantly until it is quite a dark color, then add a half cupful of 
water, and a pinch of salt; let it boil a few minutes, and when cold; bottle. 

For coloring soups, sauces or gravies) 

TO CLARIFY JELLY. 

The white of eggs is, perhaps, the best substance that can be employed in 
clarifying jelly, as well as some other fluids, for the reason that when albumen 
(and the white of eggs is nearly pure albumen) is put into a liquid that is muddy, 
from substances suspended in it, on boiling the liquid the albumen coagulates in 
a floccxilent manner, and, entangling \vith the impurities, rises with them to the 
surface as a scum, or sinks to the bottom, according to their weight. 



yjSV»«/i!)/-a P 




Boiling water is a very important disideratum in the making of a good ^ 
cup of coffee or tea, but the average housewife is very apt to overlook this 
fact. Do not boil the water more than three or four minutes; longer boiling 
ruins- the water for coffee or tea-making, as moat of its natural properties 
escape by evaporation, leaving a very insipid liquid, composed mostly of lime 
and iron, that would ruin the best coffee, and give the tea a dark, dead look, 
which ought to be the reverse. 

Water left in the tea-kettle over night must never be used for preparing 
the breakfast coffee; no matter how excellent your coffee or tea may be, it 
will be ruined by the addition of water that has been boiled more than once. 

THE HEALING PROPERTIES OF TEA AND COFFEE, 

The medical properties of these two beverages are considerable. Tea is 
used advantageously in inflammatory diseases and as a cure for the headache. 
Coffee is supposed to act as a preventive of gravel and gout, and to its influ- 
ence is ascribed the rarity of those diseases in France and Turkey. Both 
tea and coffee powerfully counteract the effects of opium and intoxicating 
liquors. Avoid the use of coffees ground by the manufacturers, and likewise 
those covered with glazing, since both of these deceptions are practiced to 
conceal imperfections in the original coffee bean. 

COFFEE. 

After grinding the coffee moderately fine, carefully measure in a bowl, 
allowing one tablespoonful to every person. Add white of an egg, using 
one egg to each cup of ground coffee, and mix with water suflScient to 
thoroughly saturate the grounds. Empty this mixture into the coffee-pot, 
then pour on boiling water, a cupful to each tablespoonful of the ground 
coffee. Boil briskly for ten minutes, add a small amount of cold water, and 
set aside ten minutes to settle. Serve immediately, permitting each person 
to sweeten his own cup to suit the individual taste. A tablespoonful of 
whipped cream, laid on each cup, adds greatly to the elegance of the bev- 

J97 



398 COFFBB^ TEA, BEVERAGES. 

erage. Opinions difEer as to the exact proportions of Mocha, Java, etc., 
which should be mixed to produce the best effect ; but it is generally- 
conceded that Mocha and Java mixed in equal parts produce a quality 
which is not easily surpassed, and we therefore recommend it for use in 
following these receipts. 

VIENNA COFFEE. 
Allow one heaping tablespoonful of cofifee to each person, and two extra 
to make good strength. Mix one egg with grounds; pour on cofifee half as 
much boiling water as will be needed; let coffee froth, then stir down 
grounds, and let boil five minutes; then let coffee stand where it will keep 
hot, but not boil, for five or ten minutes, and add rest of water. To one 
pint of cream add the white of an egg, well-beaten; this is to be put in cups 
with sugar, and hot coffee added. 

FILTERED OR DRIP COFFEE. 

For each person allow a large tablespoonful of finely ground coffee, and 
to every tablespoonful allow a cupful of boiling water. 

Have a small iron ring made to fit the top of the coffee-pot inside, and to 
this ring sew a small muslin bag (the muslin for this purpose must not be 
too thin). Pit the bag into the pot, pour some boiling water in it, and, when 
the pot is well-warmed, put the ground coffee into the bag; pour over as 
much boiling water as is required, close the lid, and, when all the water has 
filtered through, remove the bag, and send the coffee to table. Making it in 
this manner prevents the necessity of pouring the coffee from one vessel to 
another, which cools and spoils it. The water should be poured on the 
coffee gradually so that the infusion may be stronger; and the bag must be 
well made that none of the grounds may escape through the seams and so 
make the coffee thick and muddy. 

Patent coffee-pots on this principle can be purchased at most house- 
furnishing stores. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Make more coffee than usual at breakfast time and stronger. When cold 
put on ice. Serve with cracked ice in each tumbler. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM IN COFFEE. 

Beat the white of an egg, put to it a small lump of butter and pour the 
coffee into it gradually, stirring it so that it will not curdle. It is difficult 
to distinguish this from fresh cream. 



COFPEB, TEA, BEVERAGES. y^ 

Many drop a tiny piece of sweet butter into their cup of hot cofEee as a sub- 
stitute for cream. 

TO MAKE TEA. 

Allow two teaspoonf uls of tea to one large cupful of boiling water. Scald the 
teapot, put in the tea, pour on about a cupful of boiling water, set it on the fire 
in a warm place where it will not boil, but keep very hot, to almost boiling; let 
it steep or "draw" ten or twelve minutes. Now fill up with as much boiling 
water as is required. Send hot to the table. It is better to use a china or porce- 
lain teapot, but if you do use metal let it be tin, new, bright and clean; never use 
it when the tin is worn ofiE and the iron exposed. If you do you are drinking 
tea-ate of iron. 

To make tea to perfection, boiling water must be poured on the leaves 
directly it boils. Water which has been boiling more than five minutes, oi 
which has previously boiled, should on no account be used. If the water does 
not boil, or if it be allowed to overboil, the leaves of the tea will be only half • 
opened and the tea itself will be quite spoiled. The water should be allowed to 
remain on the leaves from ten to fifteen minutes. 

A Chinese being interviewed for the Cook says: Di-ink your tea plain. 
Don't add milk or sugar. Tea-brokers and tea-tasters never do; epicures nevei 
do; the Chinese never do. Milk contains fibrin, albumen or some other stuff, 
and the tea a delicate amount of tannin. Mixing the two makes the liquid 
tm-bid. Tliis turbidity, if I remember the cylopaedia aright, is tannate of fibrin, 
or leather. People who put milk in tea are therefore drinking boots and shoes 
in mild disguise. 

ICED TEA. 

Is now served to a considerable extent during the stunmer months. It is oi 
course used without milk, and the addition of sugar serves only to destroy the 
finer tea flavor. It may be prepared some hours in advance, and should be 
made stronger than when served hot. It is bottled and placed in the ice-chesl 
till required. Use the black or green teas, or both, mixed, as fancied. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Allow half a cupful of grated chocolate to a pmt of water and a pint of mUk. 
Eub the chocolate smooth in a httle cold water, and stir into the boiling water. 
Boil twenty minutes, add the milk and boil ten minutes more, stirring it often. 
Sweeten to your taste. 

The French put two cupfuls of boiling water to each cupful of chocolate. 



400 COFFEE, TEA, BEVERAGES. 

They throw in the chocolate just aa the ■water commences to boil. Stir it with 
a spoon as soon as it boils up, add two cupfnls of good milk, and when it haa 
boiled sufSciently, eerre with a spoonful of thick whipped cream with eadi cup. 

COCOA. 

Six tablespoonf uls of cocoa to each pint of water, as much milk as water, 
sugar to taste. Eub cocoa smooth in a Uttle cold water; have ready on the fir© 
a pint of boiling water; stir in grated cocoa paste. Boil twenty nfiinutes, add 
milk and boil five minutes more, stirring often. Sweeten in cups so as to suit 
different tastes. 

BUTTERMILK AS A DRINK. 

Buttermilk, so generally regarded as a waste product, has latterly been com* 
ing somewhat into vogue, not only as a nutrient, but as a therapeutic agent, 
and in an editorial article the Canada Lancet, some time ago, highly extolled 
its virtues. Buttermilk may be roughly described as milk which has lost most 
of its fat and a small percentage of casein, and which has become sour by fer- 
mentation. Long experience has demonstrated it to be an agent of superior 
digestibility. It is, indeed, a true mUk peptone— that is, milk already partially 
digested, the coagulation of the coagulable portion being loose and flaky, and not 
of that firm indigestible natiure which is the result of the action of the gastric 
juice upon sweet cow's milk. It resembles koumiss in its nature, and, with the 
exception of that article, it is the most grateful, refreshing, and digestible of 
the products of milk. It is a decided laxative to the bowels, a fact which must 
be borne in mind in the treatment of typhoid fever, and which may be turned 
to advantage in the treatment of habitual constipation. It is a diuretic, and 
may be prescribed with advantage in some kidney troubles. Owing to its 
acidity, combined with its laxative properties, it is believed to exercise a general 
impression on the Uver. It is well adapted to many cases where it is .customary 
to recommend lime water and milk. It is invaluable in the treatment of dia- 
betes, either exclusively, or alternating with skimmed milk. In some cases of 
gastric ulcer audcancerof the^tomach, it is the only food that can be retained. 

* —Medical Journal. 

CURRANT WINE. No. I. 

The currants should be quite ripe. Stem, mash and strain them, adding a 
half pint of water and less than a pound of sugar to a quart of the mashed 
fruit. Stir well up together, and pour into a clean cask, leaving the bung-hole 
open, or covered with a piece of lace. It should stand for a month to ferment, 



COFFEE, TEAJBEVERAQES.: 4<»» 

vheQ It will be ready for bottling; just before bottling you may add a smaO 
quantity of brandy or whiskey, 

CURRANT.WINE. No.^2. 
To each quart of currant juice, add two quarts of soft water and three pounds 
of brown sugar. Put into a jug or small keg\ leaving the top open until fer« 
mentation ceases, and it looks dear. Draw-oft' and cork tightly. 

—Long Island recipe, 

BLACKBERRY WINE. No. i. 
Cover your blackberries with cold water; crush the berries well with a wooden 
masher; let them stand twenty-four hours; then strain, and to one gallon of 
juice put three pounds of common brown sugar; put into wide-mouthed jars for 
several days, carefully skimming off the scum that will rise to the top; put in 
several sheets of brown paper, and let them remain in it three days; then skim 
again, and pour through a funnel into your cask. There let it .remain undjs* 
turbed till March; then strain again, and bottle. These directions, if carefully 
followed out, will insure you excellent wine. 

—Orange County recipe. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. No. 2. 

Berries should be ripe and plump. Put into a large wood or stone vessel 
with a tap; pour on sufficient boiling water to cover them; when cool enough 
to bear your hand, bruise well until all the berries are broken; cover up, let 
stand untU berries begin to rise to top, which will occur in three or four days. 
Then draw off the clear juice in another vessel, and add one pound of sugar to 
every ten quarts of the liquor, and stir thoroughly. Let stand six to ten days 
in first vessel with top; then draw off through a jelly bag. Steep' four ounces 
of isinglass in a pint of wine for twelve hours; boil it over a slow fire till all 
dissolved, then place dissolved isinglass in a gallon of blackberry juice, give them 
a boil together, and pour all iato the vessel. Let stand a few days to ferment 
and settle, draw off and keep in a cool place. Other berry wines may be made, 
in the same manner. 

GRAPE WINE. 

Mash the grapes and strain them through a cloth ; put the skins in a tub. after 
squeezing them, with barely enough water to cover them; strain the juice thus 
obtained into the first portion; put three pounds of sugar to one gallon of the 
mixture; let it stand in an open tub to ferment, covered with a cloth, for a 
period_of. from three to seven days: akim off what rises every morning. Pw 



402 COFFEE, TEA, BEVERAGES. 

the juice in a cask, and leave it open for twenty'-fpur hours; then bung it up, 
and put clay over the bung to keep the air out. Let ybiu-vnne "remain in the 
cask until March, when it should be dmwn'off Imd bottled. 

FLORIDA ORANGE WINE. 

Wipe the oranges with a wet cloth, peel off the yellow rind very thin, squeeze 
the oranges, and strain the juice through a hair sieve; msasure the juice after 
it is strained, and for each gallon allow three pounds of granulated sugar, the 
white and shell of one egg,.and one-third of a gallon of cold water; put the sugar, 
the white and shell of the egg (crushed small) and the water over the fire, and stir 
them every two minutes until the eggs begins to harden; then boil the syrup 
until it looks clear under the froth of egg which will form on the surface; strain 
the syrup, pour it upon the orange rind, and let it stand over night; then next 
add the orange-juice and again let it stand over night; strain it the second day, ' 
and put it into a tight cask with a small cake of compressed yeast to about ten 
gallons of wine, and leave the bung out of the cask until the wine ceases to 
^ferment; the hissing noise continues as long as fermentation is in progress; when 
.fermentation ceases, close the cask by driving in the bung, and let the wine; 
.stand about nine months before bottling it; three months after it is bottled, it 
,can be used. A glass of brandy added to each gallon of vrine after fermentation] 
ceases is generally considered an improvement. 

There are seasons of the .year' when Florida oranges by the box are very) 
[cheap, and this fine wine can be, made at a small expense. 

METHELIN, OR HONEY WINE. 



This is a very ancient and popular drink in the north of Eiu-ope. I'To some 
I new honey, strained, add spring watery put a whole egg into it; boil this liquor 
till the egg swims above the Uquor; strain, pour it in a cask. To every fifteen 
gallons add two ounces of white Jamaica ginger, bruised, one ounce of cloves 
and mace, one and a half ounces of cinnamon, all bruised together, and tied up 
in a muslin biag; accelerate the fermentation with yeast; whenjvorked suffi-. 
^ciently, bung up; in six weeks dravv off into bottles. 

Another Mead. — Boil the combs, from which the honey has been drained, with 
reufficient water to make a tolerably sweet liquor; ferment this with yeast, and 
proceed as per previous formula. 

Sack Mead is made by adding a handful of hops and sufBcient brandy to the 
comb liquor.' 



COFFEE, TEA, BEVERAGES. «°J 

BLACK CURRANT WINE. 

Four quarts of whiskey, four quarts of black currants; four pounds of brown 
or white sugar, one tablespoonful of cloves; one tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

Crush the currants, and let them stand in the whiskey with the spices for 
three weeks; then strain and add the sugar; set away again for three weeks 
longer; then strain and bottle. 

RAISIN WINE. 
Take two pounds of raisins, seed and chop them, a lemon, a pound of white 
Bugar, and about two gallons of boiling water. Pour into a stone jar, and stir 
daily for six or eight days. Strain, bottle, and put in a cool place for ten days 
or 80, when the wine will be ready for use. 

CHERRY BOUNCE. 
To one gallon of wild cherries add enough good whiskey to cover the fruit. 
Let soak two or three weeks and then drain off the liquor. Mash the cherried 
without breaking the stones and strain through a jelly-bag; add this liquor to 
that already drained off. Make a syrup with a gill of water and a pound of 
white sugar to every two quarts of Uquorthus prepared; stir in well and botfle, 
and tightly cork. A common way of making cherry bounce is to put wild 
cherries and whiskey together in a jug and use the liquor as wanted. 

BLACl^BERRY CORDIAL, 
Warm and squeeze the berries; add to one pint of juice one pound of wlijte 
sugar, one-half ounce of powdered cinnamon, one-fourth ounce of mace, two 
teaspoonfuls of cloves. Boil all together for one-fourth of an hour; strain the 
syrup, and to each pint add a glass of French brandy. Two or three doses of a 
tablespoonful or less will check any slight diarrhoea. When the attack is 
violent, give a tablespoonful after each discharge, until the complaint is in 
eubjectiou. It will arrest dysentery if given in season, and is a pleasant and 
safe remedy. Excellent for children when teething. 

HOP BEER. 
Tako five quarts of water, six ounces of hops, boil it three hours; then strain, 
the liquor, add to it five quarts of water, four ounces of bruised ginger root, boil 
this again twenty nainutes, strain and add four pounds of sugar. When luke- 
warm, put in a pint of yeast. Let it ferment; in twenty-four hours it will be 
ready for bottlioir. 



4tH COFFEE, TEA. BEVERAGES. 

GINGER BEER. 
Put into a kettle two ounces of powdered ginger root (or more if it is not 
very strong), half an ounce of cream of tartar, two large lemons, cut in slices, 
two pounds of broken loaf sugar, and two gallons of soft boiling water. Simmer 
them over a slow fire for half an hour. When the liquor is nearly cold, stir into 
it a large tablespoonful of the best yeast. After it has fermented, which will 
be in about twenty-four hours, bottle for use. 

SPRUCE BEER. 
Allow an ounce of hops and a spoonful of ginger to a gallon of water. When 
well boiled, strain it, and put in a. pint of molasses, or a pound of brown sugar, 
and half an ounce or less of the essence of spruce; when cool, add a teacupful 
of yefist, and put into a clean, tight cask, and let it ferment for a day or two, 
then bottle it for use. You can boil the sprigs of spruce fir ia place of the 
essence. 

ROMAN PUNCH. No.tl. 

Grate the yellow rind of four lemons and two oranges upon two pounds of 
loaf sugar. Squeeze the juice of the lemons and oranges; cover the juice and 
let it stand until the next day. Strain it through a sieve, mix with the sugar; 
add a bottle of champagne and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
It may be frozen or not, as desired. For winter use snow instead of ice. 

ROMAN PUNCH. No. 2. 
Make two quarts of lemonade, rich with pure juice lemon fruit; add one 
tablespoonful of extract of lemon. Work well, and freeze; just before serving, 
add for each quart of ice half a pint of brandy and half a pint of Jamaica rum. 
Mix well and serve in high glasses, as this makes what is called a semi or half- 
iceT It is usu ally served at dmners as a coup de milieu. 

DELICIOUS JUNKET. 

Take two quarts of new milk, warm it on the stove to about blood-heat; 
pour it into a glass or china bowl, and stir into it two tablespoonfuls of 
Crosse & Blackwell's prepared rennet, two tablespoonfuls of powdered loaf 
sugar, and a small wine-glassful of pale brandy. Let it stand till cold and 
eat with sugar and rich cream. Half the quantity can be made. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

One quart of raspberry juice, half a pound of loaf sugar, dissolved, a pint 
of Jamaica rum, or part rum and brandy. Mix thoroughly. Bottle for use. 



4X>FFEE, TEA, dSVERAGBS. 405 

SASSAFRAS MEAD. 
Mix gradually with two quarts of boiling water three pounds and a half of 
tho best brown sugar, a pint and a half of good West India molasses, and a 
quarter of a pound of tartaric acid. Stir it well, and when cool, strain it into 
a large jug or pan, then mix in a teaspoonful (not more) of essence of sassafras. 
Transfer it to clean bottles, (it will fill about half a dozen,) cork it tightly, and 
keep it in a cool place. It will be fit for use next day. Put into a box or boxes 
a quarter of a pound of carbonate of soda, to use with it. To prepare a glass of 
sassafras mead for drinking, put a large tablespoonful of the mead into a half 
tumbler full of ice-water, stir into it a half teaspoonful of the soda, and it will 
immediately foam up to the top. 

Sassafras mead will be found a cheap, wholesome, and pleasant beverage for 
varm weather. The essence of sassafras, tartaric acid and carbonate of soda, 
<an, of course, all be,obtaincd at the druggist's. 

CREAM SODA WITKOUT THE FOUNTAIN. 
Coffee-sugar, four pounds; three pints of water, three nutmegs, grated, the 
whites of ten eggs, well beaten, gum arable, one ounce; twenty drops of oil of 
temon, or extract equal, to that amount. . By using oils of other fruits, you can 
make as many flavors from this as you desire. , Mix all, and place over a.gentle 
4ire, and stir weU about thirty minutes; remove from the iire and strain, and 
divide into two parts; into one-half put eight ounces of bi-carbonate of soda, into 
the other half put six ounces of tartaric acid. ^ Shake well, and when cold they 
are ready for use by pouring three or four spoonfuls from both parts into sepa- 
rate glasses, each one-third full of water. Stir each and pour together, and you 
have a nice glass of cream soda which you can drink at your leisure, as the gunit 
and eggs hold the gas. • 

WINE WHEY. 

Sweeten one pint of milk to taste, and when boiling throw in two wine- 
glasses of sherry; when the curd forms, strain the whey through a muslin 
bag into tumblers. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Take the juice of twelve lemons; giate the.rind of six in it, let it standover 
night; then take six pounds of white sugar, and make a thick syrup. When it 
is quite cool, strain the juice into it, and squeeze as "much oil from the grated 
rind as will suit the taste. Put in bottles, securely corked, for future use, A 
tab!e^K>onfut in s goblet of water will make a delicious drink on a hot day. 



4o6 COFFEE, TEA, BEVERAGES. 

FOR A SUMMER DRAUGHT. 

The juice of one lemon, a tumblerful of cold water, pounded sugar to 
taste, half a email teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Squeeze the juice from 
the lemon, strain, and add it to the water, with sufficient pounded sugar to 
sweeten the whole nicely. When well-mixed, put in the soda, stir well, and 
drink while the mixture is in an eflfervescent state. 

[NOYEAirCORDIAC. 

To one gallon of proof spirit add three pounds of loaf sugar and a table- 
spoonful of extract of almonds. Mix well together, and allow to stand forty- 
eight hours, covered closely; now strain through thick flarmel, and bottle. This 
liquor will be much improved by adding half a pint of apricot or peach juice. 

EGG NOGG. 
Beat the yellows of twelve eggs very Lght, stir in as much white sugar as 
they will dissolve, pour in gradually one glass of brandy to cook the eggs, one 
glass of old whiskey, one grated nutmeg, and three pints of rich milk. Beat the 
whites to a froth and stir in kist. 

EGG FLIP, OR MULLED ALE. 
Boil one quart of good ale, with some nutmeg; beat up six eggs, and mix 
them with a httle cold ale; then pour the hot ale to it, and pour it back and forth 
several times to prevent its curdhng; warm, and stir it till sufSciently thick; add 
a piece of butter or a glass of brandy, and serve it with dry toast. 

MILK PUNCH. 
One pint of milk made very sweet; a wine-glassful of brandy or rum, well- 
stirred together; grate a little nutmeg over the top of the glasses. Serve with a 
straw in each glass. 

FINE MILK PUNCH. 

Pare off the yellow rind of foiu" large lemons, and steep it for twenty -foiu 
hours in a^u^rt of byandy or rum. Then mix with it the juice of the lemons,' 
a pouQd gilds' balf of loaf-sugar, two grated nutmegs, and a quart of water. 
Add a quart of rich unskinuned milk, made boiling hot, and strain the whole 
through a jelly bag. ,. You may either use it as soon as it is cold, or make a larger 
luaotit^^^. the above proportions), and botU^ it. i.It will keep several months. 



COFFEE, TEA. BEVERAGES. 40f 

TO MAKE HOT PUNCH. 

Half a pint of rum, half a pint of brandy, quarter of a pound of sugar, ooe^ 
large lemoii, half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, one pint of boiling water., 

Bub the sugai' over the lemon until it has absorbed all the yellow part of the^ 
ekin, then put the sugar into a punch-bowl; add the lemon- juice (free from pips), ; 
and mix these two ingredients, well together. Pour over them the boiling wat^r, 
stir well together, add the rum, brandy, and nutmeg; mis thoroughly and the 
punch will be ready to serve. It is very important in making good punch that 
all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated; and to insure success, the pro- 
cesses of mixing must be diligently attended to. (This is an old-style pimch.) 

LEMONADE. 

Three lemons to a pint of water makes strong lemonade; sweeten to your 
taste. 

STRAWBERRlTWATERi 

Take one cupful of ripe huUed berries; crush with a wooden spoon, mixing 
with the mass a quarter of a pound of pulverized fugar and half a pint of cold 
water. Pour the mixture into a fine sieve, rub through and filter till clear; a<3d 
the strained juice of one lemon and one and a half pints of cold water, mix 
thoroughly, and set in ice-chest till wanted. 

This makes a nice, cool drink on a warm day, and easily to be made in straw- 
berry season. 

STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY~SYRUP. 

Mash the fresh fruit, express the juice, and to each quart add three and a 
half pounds of, granulated sugar. The juice, heated to 180° Fahrenheit, and 
strained or filtered previous to dissolving the sugar, will keep for an indefinite 
time, canned hot in glass jars. 

The juice of soft fruits is best when allowed to drop therefrom by its own 
weight, lightly mash the fruit and then suspend in a cloth, allowing the juice to 
drop m a vessel beneath. Many housekeepers, after the bottles and jars are 
thoroughly washed and dried, smoke them with sulphur in this way: Take a 
piece of wire and bend it around a small piece of brimstone the size of a bean; 
set the brimstone on fire, nut it in the jar or bottle, bending the^^er end- over 
the mouth of the vessel, and cover with a cork; after the brimsto^ has burned 
away,. fill the vessel with the syrup or preserves and_covertigh%._ There is no 
sulphurous taste left bjr the procesB.; 



408 COFFEE, TEA, BEVERAGES. 

KOUMISS. 

Koumiss is prepared by dissolving four ounces of white sugar in one gal- 
lon of skimmed milk, and placing in bottles of the capacity of one quart; add 
two ounces of bakers' yeast, or a cake of compressed yeast to each bottle. Cork 
and tie securely, set in a warm place until fermentation is well under way^ 
and lay the bottles on their sides in a cool cellar. In three days, fermentation 
will have progressed sufficiently to permit the koumiss to be in good condition. 

PINEAPPLE VINEGAR. 

Cover sliced pine-apples with pure cider vinegar; let them stand three or 
four days, then mash and strain through a cloth as long as it runs clear; to 
every three quarts of juice add five pounds of sugar. . 

Boil it all together about ten minutes, skim carefully until nothing rises 
to the surface, take from the fire; When cool, bottle it. Blackberries and 
raspberries, and, in fact, any kind of highly fiavored fruit, is fine; a table- 
spoonful in a glass of ice-cold water, to drink in warm weather. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. No. 1. 

Put a quart of raspberries into a suitable dish, pour over them a quart of 
good vinegar, let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain through a fiannel bag, 
and pour this liquor on another quart of berries; do this for three or four days 
successively,and strain it; make it very sweet with loaf sugar; bottle and seal it. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. No. 2. 

Turn over a quart of ripe raspberries, mashed, a quart of good cider vin- 
egar, add one pound of white sugar, mix well, then let stand in the sun four 
hours. Strain it, squeeze out the juice, and put in a pint of good brandy. Seal 
it up in bottles, air tight, and lay them on their sides in the cellar; cover them 
with sawdust. When used, pour two tablespoonf uls to a tumblerful of ice- 
water. Fine. 

HOME-MADE TABLE VINEGAR. 

Put in an open cask four gallons of warm rain-water, one gallon of com- 
mon molasses, and two quarts of yeast; cover the top with thin muslin and 
leave it in the sun, covering it up at night and when it rains. In three or 
four weeks it will be good vinegar. If cider can be used in place of rain-water 
the vinegar will make much sooner — will not take over a week to mako a very 
sharp vinegar. Excellent for pickling purposes. 



VERY STRONG TABLE'VINEGAR: 

Take two gallons of good cider and thoroughly mix it with two pounds of 
new honey," pour into your cask or bottle, and let it stand from four to six 
months, when you will have vinegar so strong that it cannot he used at table 
without diluting with water. It is the best ever procured for pickling purposes. 

PINEAPPLE-ADE. 
Pare and slice some very ripe pineapples; then cut the shoes into small pieces. 
Put them with all their juice into a large pitcher, and sprinkle among them 
plenty of powdered white sugar. Pour on boiUng water, allowing a small hali 
pint to eaoh pineapple. Cover the pitcher, and let it stand till quite cool, oc- 
casionally pressing down the pineapple with a spoon. Then set the pitcher for 
a while in ice. Lastly, strain the infusion into another vessel, and transfer it 
to tumblers, putting into each glass some more sugar and a bit of ice. This 
beverage will be found delicious. 

SEIDLITZ POWDERS. 
Fold in a white paper a mixture of one drachm of Eochelle salts and twenty- 
five grains of carbonate of soda, in a blue paper twenty grains of tartaric 
acid. They should all be pulverized very finely. Put the contents of the white 
paper into a timibler, not quite half fuU of cold water, and stir it till dissolved. 
Then put the mixture from the blue paper into another tumbler with the same 
quantity of water, and stir that also. When the powders are dissolved in both 
tumblers, pour the first into the other, and it will effervesce immediately. Drink 
it quickly, while foaming. 

INEXPENSIVE DRINK. 
A very nice, cheap drink which may take the place of lemonade, and be found 
fully as healthful, is made wdth one cupful of pure cider Vinegar, half a cupful 
of good molasses, put into one quart pitcher of ice-water. A tablespoonful of 
ground ginger added makes a healthful beverage. 



Dishes for invalids should be served iu the daintiest and most attractive way; 
aever send more than a supply for one meal; the same dish too frequently set 
before an invalid often causes a distaste, when perhaps a change would tempt 
the appetite. 

When prepanng dishes where milk is used, the condition of tho patient should 
be considered. Long cooking hardens the albumen and makes the milk very 
constipating; then, if the patient should be already constinated, caro should bo 
taken not to heat the milk above the boiling point. 

The seasoning of food for the sick should be varied according to the condition 
of the patient; one recovering from iUness can partake' of a little piece of roast 
mutton, chicken, rabbit, game, fish, simply dresseiJ, and simple puddings are all 
light food and easily digested. A mutton chop, nicely cut, trimmed and broiled, 
is a dish that is often inviting to an invalid. A^ a rule, an invalid will be more 
likely jfco enjoy any preparation sent to him if it is served in small, delicaite 
pieces. As there are so many small, dainty dishes that can be made for this 
purpose, it seems useless to try to more than give a small variety of them. 
Pudding can be made of prepared barley, or ^tapioca, well-soaked before boiling, 
with an egg added, and a change can be made of light puddings by mining up 
some stewed fruit with the. puddings before baMog; abread pudding from stale 
bread^crumbs|"and a tiny cu'p-custard, boiled in a small basin or cup; also 
various drinks, such as milk punch, wine, whey, apple-toddy, and various 
ot'asr nourishing drinks. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUTTON CHOPS. 

Select the tenderest cuts, and broil over a clear, hot fife.. Let the steak be 
lare, the chops well done. Salt and pepper; lay between two hot plates thiee 
minutes, and serve to your patient. If he is very weak, do not let him swallow 
anything except the juice, when he has chewed the meat wejl. The essence of 
rare beef, roasted or broiled, thus expressed, is considered by some physicians to 
be more strengthening than beef tea preparod in the usual maimer. 



fojt TJBS siqx. 4£ I 

BEEF TEA. 
'One pound of Itan beef, cut into smaU pieces. Put into a glass canning- jaT 
^thout a drop of water; cover tightly, and set in a pot of cold water. Heat 
gradually to a boO, and continue this steadOy for three or four houis, until the 
meat is like white rags, and the juice all drawn out. Season with salt to taste, 
and when cold, skim. 

VEAL OR MUTTON BROTH. 
Take a scrag-end of mutton (two pounds), put it in a sauce-pan, with two 
quarts of cold water, and an ounce of pearl barley or rice. When it is coming 
to a bofl, skim it well, then add half a teaspoonful of salt; let it boil until half 
reduced, then strain it, and take off all the fat, and it is ready for use. Thid is 
excellent for an invalid. If vegetables are liked in this broth, take one turnip, 
one carrot, and one onion, cut them in shreds, and boil them in the broth half 
an hour. In that case, the barley may be served with the vegetables in broth. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 
Make the same as mutton or beef broth. Boil the chicken slowly, putting 
on just enough water to cover it well, watching it closely that it does not boil 
down too much. When the chicken is tender, season with salt and a very little 
pepper. The yolk of an egg beaten light and added, is very nourishing 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of the best grits (oatmeal coarsely ground) into a 
pint of boiling water. Let it boil gently, and stir it often, till it becomes as thick 
as you wish it. Then strain it, and add to it while warm, butter, wine, nutmeg, , 
or whatever is thought proper to flavor it. Salt to taste. 

If you make the gruel of line oatmeal, sift it, mix it first to a thick batter 
with a little cold water, and then put it into the sauce-pan of boiling water. 
Stir it all the time it is boiling, Ufting the spoon gently up and down, and letting 
the gruel fall slowly back again into the pan. 

CORN-MEAL GRUEL. 

Two tablespoonfuls of fine Indian meal, mixed smooth with cold water and a 
ealt-spoonful of salt; add one quart of boiling water, and cook twenty minutes. 
Stir it frequently, and if it becomes too thick use boiUng water to thin it. If the 
stomach is not too weak, a tablespoonful of cream may be used to cool it. 
Some like it sweetened and others like it plain. For very sick persons, let it 
settle, pour off the top, and give without other seasoning. For convalescents, 
toast a piece of bread as nicely as possible, and put it in the gruel with a tabie* 



i^'i FOX TJiS SICK. 

spoonful, of nice sweet cream, and a little ginger and sugar. This should be 
used only when a laxative is allowod. 

EGG GRUEL. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with one tablespoonful of sugar; pour one teacupful 
of boiling water on it; add the white of an egg, beaten to a froth, with any 
seasoning or spice desired. Take warm. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 
The same as arrowroot, excepting it should be all milk, and thickened with 
a scant tablespoonful of sifted flour; let- it boil five minutes, stirring it con- 
tinually, add a little cold milk, and give it one boil up, and it is ready for use. 

ARROWROOT MILK PORRIDGE. 
One large cupful of fresh milk, new if you can get it; one cupful of boiling 
water; one teaspoonful of arrowroot, wet to a paste with cold water; two tea- 
spoonfuls of white sugar; a pinch of salt. Put the sugar into the milk, the salt 
into the boiling water, which should be poured into a farina-kettle. Add the 
wet arrowroot, and boil, stirring, constantly until it is clear; put in the milk, and 
cook ten minutes, stirring often. Give while warm, adding hot milk should it 
be thicker than grueL 

ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE. 
One large cupful of bciling milk, one even tablespoonful of arrowroot rubbed 
to a paste with cold water, two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, a pinch of salt; 
flavor with rose-water. Proceed as in the foregoing recipes. Boiling and stirring 
eight minutes. Turn into a wet mold, and when firm, serve with creaoi and 
powderejl sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 
Soak a cupful of tapioca in a quart of cold water, after washing it thoroughly 
two or three times; after soaking three or four hours, simmer it in a stew-pan 
untU it becomes quite clear, stirring often; add the juice of a lemon, and a lit- 
tle 01 the grated peel,^lso a pinch of salt. Sweeten to taste. Wine can be 
substituted for lemon, if liked. 

SLIPPERY-ET.M BARK TEA. 
Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over it, cover, and let it infuse 
ontil cold. Sweeten, ice, and take for summer disorders, or add lemon juice and 
drink for a bad cold. 



FLAX-SEED TEA. 

Upon an ounce of unbnused flax -&sed and a little pulverized liquorice-root 
pour a pint of boiling (soft or rain) water; and place the vessel containing these 
ingredients near, but iiot on, the fire for foui" hours. Strain through a linen 
cloth. Make it fresh evexy day. An excellent drink in fever accompanied by a 
cough. 

FLAX-SEED LEMONADE. 

To a large tablespoonf ul of flax-seed, allow a tumbler and a half of cold water. 
Boil them together till the liquid becomes very sticky. Then strain it hot over 
a quarter of a pound of pulverized sugar, and an ounce of pulveiized gum arable. 
Stir it till quite dissolved, and squeeze irito it the juice of a lemon. 

This mixture has frequently been found ah efficacious remedy for a cold, 
taking a win&glass of it as often as the cough is troublesome. 

TAMARIND WATER. 
Put tamarindsintoa'pitcher or tumbler till it is one-third full; then'fiU4ip 
■with cold water, cover it, and let it infuse for a'^quarter of an hour or more. 

Currant jelly or cranberry juice mixed with water^makes a pleasant drink, 
for an invalid. 

SAGO JELLY. 

Made the same as tapioca. If seasoning is not advisable,' the sagomay.be, 
boiled in milk, instead of water,' and eaten plain. 

JJicejeUyimade the same, using only half as. much rtce^as.s^^ 

ARROWROOT WINE JELLY. 

One cupful of boiling water, one scant tablespoonful of arrowroot; mix 
with a little cold water; one tablespoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, one table- 
spoonful of brandy, or three tablespoonfuls of wine. Excellent for a eiok 
•person without fever. 

•HOMINY. 

Put to soak one pint of hominy in two and one-half pinte^ofJboiliSg wator 
over night, in a tin vessel with a tight cover; in the morning add one-half pint 
of sweet^milk, and a little salt. Place on a brisk fire in a kettle.of boiliiig water,; 
the tin vessel containing the hominy;' let boil one-half hour.^ 

Cracked wlMat^. oatmeal, mushi are all good food for Jfcherfdb 



414 i^fl THE SICK, 

CHICKEN JELLY. 
Cook a chicken in enough water to Uttle more than cover it; let it etew gently 
until the meat drops from the bones, and the broth is reduced to about a pint} 
season it to taste, with a little salt and pepper. Strain and press, first through 
a colander, then through a coarse cloth. Set it over the fire again,' and cook a 
few minutes longer. Turn it into an earthen vegetable dish to harden; set it on 
the ice in the refrigerator. Eat cold in slices. Nice made into sandwiches, with 
ilvim slices of bread, lightly spread with butter. 

BOILED RICE. 
Boil half a cupful of rice in just enough water to cover it, with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt; when the water has boiled nearly out and the rice begins to look 
soft and dry, turn over it a cupful of milk, and let it simmer until the rice is 
done and nearly dry; take from the fire and beat in a well-beaten egg. Eat it 
warm with cream and sugar. Flavor to taste. 

CUP PUDDING. 
Take one tablespoonful of flour, one egg; mix vdth cold milk and a pinch of 
salt to a batter. Boil fifteen minutes in a buttered cup. Eat with sauce, fruit, 
or plain sugar. 

TAPIOCA CUP PUDDING, 
This is very light and delicate for invalids. An even tablespoonful of tapioca, 
soaked for two hours in nearly a cup of new milk; stir into this the yolk of a 
fresh egg, a Uttle sugar, a grain of salt, and bake it in a cup for fifteen minutes., 
A little jelly may be eaten with it. 

BAKED APPLES. 
Get nice fruit, a little tart and juicy, but not sour; clean them nicely, and 
bake in a moderate oven— regulated so as to have them done in about an hour; 
when the sMn cracks and the pulp breaks through in every direction they are 
done and ready to take out. Serve with white sugar sprinkled over them. 

SOFT TOAST. 
Toast well, but not too brown, two tfejn slices ^ gtiale bread; put them on a 
vanii plate, sprinkle with a pinch of salt, and ppyr upon tfaiS^ some boiling 
water; qiuckly cover with another dish of the same $ize, and drain off the waterJ 
i^it a very small bit of butter on the toast and serve at once while hot. 



FOR TNH SICK, 41S 

IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE. 

A small handful of moss (to be purchased at any drug store); wash it very 
carefully, and put it in one quart of mUk on the fire. Let the milk simmer for 
about twenty minutes, or until the moss begins to dissolve. Then remove from 
the fire and strain throu^ a fine sieve. Add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
half a teaspoonful of vacddla Savoring. Put away to harden in cups or molds, 
and serve with sugar and cream. 

A delicate dish for an invalid. 

EGG TOAST 

Brawn a slice of bread nicely over the coals, dip it in hot water shghtly salted, 
butter it, and lay on the top an egg that has been broken into boiling water, and 
cooked untU the white has hardened; season the egg with a bit of butter and' a 
crumb of salt. 

The best way to cook eggs for an invalid is to drop them, or else pour boiling 
water over the egg in the shell and let it stand for a few minutes on the back of 
the stove 

OYSTER TOAST. 
Make a nice slice of dry toast, butter it and lay it on a hot dish. Put six 
oysters, half a teacupful of their own liquor, and half a cupful of milk, into a 
tin cup or basin, and boil one minute. Season with a little butter, pepper and 
ealt, then pour over the toast and serve. 

MULLED JELLY. 

Take one tablespoonful of currant or grape jelly; beat with it the white of 
one egg and a teaspoonful of sugar; pour on it a teacupful of boiling water, and 
break in a sUce of dry toast or two crackers. 

CUP CUSTARD. 
Break into a coffee-cup an egg, put in two teaspoonfuls of sugar, beat it up 
iflioroughly, a pinch of salt and a pinch of grated nutmeg; fill up the cup with 
good sweet milk; turn it into another cup, well buttered, and set it in a pan of 
boiling water, reaching nearly to the top of the cup. Set in the oven, and when 
the custard is set, it is done. Eat cold 

CLAM BROTH. 
Select twelve small, hardshell clams, drain them, and chop them fine; add 
^fil f a pint of dam juice or hot water, a pinch of cayenne, and a walnut 0^ 



«I!6 FOR THE S/CX. 

Butter; simmer thirty minutes; add a gill of boiled milk, strain, and 6Mt& 
This is an excellent broth for weak stomachs. 

MILK OR CREAM CODFISH. 
This dish will often rehsh when a person is recovering from sickness, when 
nothing else would. Pick up a large tablespoonful of salt codfish very fine; 
freshen it considerably by placing it over the fire in a basin, covering it with 
cold water as it comes to a boil; ttma off the water and freshen again if veiy 
salt, then turn off the water until dry, and pour over half a cupful of mUk or 
thin cream; add a bit of butter, a sprinkle of pepper, and a thickening made of 
one teaspoonful of flom" or corn-starch, wet up with a little milk; when this boils 
up, turn over a slice of dipped toast. 

CRACKER PANADA. 

Break in pieces three or four hard crackers that are baked quite bro^n, and 
let them boil fifteen minutes in one quart of water; then remove from the fire, 
let them stand three or four minutes, strain off the liquor through a fine wire 
eieve, and season it with sugar. 

This is a nourishing beverage for infants that are teething, and with tha 
addition of a little wine and nutmeg, is often prescribed for invalids recovering 
from a fevn»^ 

BREAD PANADA 

Put three gills of water and one tablespoonful of white sugar on the fire, 
and just before it boils add two tablespoonfuls of the crumbs of stale white 
bread; stir it well, and let it boil three or four minutes; then add one glasa 
of white wine, a grated lemon and a little nutmeg; let it boil up once, then 
remove it from the fire, and keep it cloEely covered until it is wanted for use. 

SLIPPERY-ELM TEA. 
Put a teaspoonful of powdered shppery-fllm into a tumbler, pour cold Tvateft 
upon it, and season with lemon and sugar. 

TOAST WATER, OR CRUST COFFEE. 

Take stale pieces of crusts of bread, the end pieces of the loaf; toast them a 
nice, dark brown, care to be taken that they do not bum in the least, as that 
affects the flavor. Put the browned crusts into a large milk pitcher, and poui 
enough boiling water over to cover them; cover the pitcher closely, and let steej 
until cold. Straus, and sweeten to taste; put a piece of ice in each glass. 

This is also good- dcank worm with cream and sugar, similar to coffee. 



FOR THE SICK. #y 

PLAIN MILK TOAST. 
Oat a thin dice £rom a loaf of stale bread, toast it very quickly, sprinkle a 
little salt over it, and pour upon it three tablespoonf uls of boiling milk or cream. 
Crackers split and toasted in this manner, are often very grateful to an invalid. 

LINSEED TEA. 

Put one tablespoonf ul of linseed into a stew-pan •with half a pint of cold 
water; place the stew-pan over a moderate fire, and, when the virater is quite 
warm, pour it off, and add to the linseed half a pint of fresh cold water; then 
let the whole boD three or four minutes; season it with lemon and sugar 

POWDERS FOR CHILDREN. 

A very excellent carminative powder for flatulent infants may be kept in the 
house, and employed with advantage whenever the child is in pain or grined, 
dropping five grains of oil of anise-seed and tv^o of peppermint on half an ounce 
cf lump sugar, and rubbing it in a mortar, with a drachm of magnesia, mto a 
fine powder. A small quantity of this may be given in a little water at any 
time, and always with benefit 

FOR CHILDREN TEETHING. 

Tie a quarter of a pound of wheat floiu- in a thick cloth, and boil it in one 
quart of water for three hours; then remove the cloth and expose the floiu- to 
the air or heat imtil it is hard and dry; grate from it, when wanted, one table- 
epoonful, which put into half a pint of new mUk, and stir over the fire untQ it 
comes to a boil, when add a pinch of salt and a tablespoonful of cold water, and 
serve. This gruel is excellent for children afflicted with summer complaint. 

Or, brown a tablespoonful of flour in the oven or on top of the stove on a 
baking-tin; feed a few pinches at a time to a child, and it will often check a 
dianhaa. The tincture of "kino"— of which from tento thirty drops,. mixed 
with a little sugar and water in a spoon, and given every two or three hours, is 
vei7y- efficacious and harmless— can - be procured at almost any druggist's. 
Tablespoon doses of pure cider vinegar, and a pinch of salt, has cured when aU 
else failed. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

This recipe may be found under the head of "Coffee, Tea, Beverages." It 
* ill be found an excellent medicine for children teething and summer diseases. 



#ifcs fOR THE SICX, 

ACID DRINKS. 

1. Peel thirty large Malaga grapes, and pour half a pint of boiling water upon 
them; cover them closely, and let them steep until the water is cold. 

2. Pour half a pint of boiling water upon one tablespoonful of currant jelly, 
and stir imtil the jelly is dissolved. 

3. Cranberries and barberries may be used in the same way to make very 
refreshing acid drinks for persons recovering from fevers. 

DRAUGHTS FOR THE FEET. 

Take a large leaf from the horseradish plant, and cut out the hai-d fibres that 
run through the leaf; place it on a hot shovel for a moment to soften it, fold it, 
and fasten it closely in the hoUow of the foot by a cloth bandage. 

Burdock-leaves, cabbage-leaves, and mullen-leaves, are used in the same 
manner, to alleviate pain and promote perspiration. 

Garlics' are also made for draughts by pounding them, placing them on a hot 
tm plate for a moment to sweat them, and binding them closely to the hollow 
of the foot by a cloth bandage. 

Draughts of onions, for infants, are made by roasting onions in hot ashes, 
and, when they are quite soft, peeling off the outside, mashing them, and appl.^- 
ing them on a cloth as usual 

POULTICES. 

A Bread and Milk Poultice.— TvA, a tablespoonful of the crumbs of stale 
bread into a gill of milk, and give the whole one boil up. Or, take stale bread- 
crumbs, pour over them boiling water and boil till soft, stirring well; take from 
the fire and gradually stir m a httle glycerine or sweet oil, so as to render the 
poultice pUable when applied. 

A Hop Poultice.— BoW one handful of dried hops in half a pint of water, 
until the half pint is reduced to a gill, then stir into it enough Indian meal to 
thicken it. 

A Mustard Poultice.— Into one gill of boiling water stir one tablespoonful of 
Indian meal; spread the paste thus made upon a cloth, and spread over the 
paste one teaspoonful of mustard flour. If you wish a mild poultice, use a tea.- 
spoonful of mustard as it is prepared for the table, instead of the mustard flour. 

Equal parts of groimd mustard and flour made into a paste with warm water, 
and spread between two pieces of muslin, form the •inflispensable mustard 
plaster. 
^A Oingtr PouUicc—ThiB is made like a mustard poultice, using ground 



I^H THE SrCK. *A^ 

ginger instead of mustard. A Ottle vinegar is someUmee addedf to each of tbess 
poultices. 

A Slramonium Poultice.Stir one tablespoonful of Indian meal into a gill of 
boiling water, and add one tablespoonful of bruised stramonium seeds. 

Wormwood and Arnica are sometimes applied in poultices. Steep the herbs 
In half a pint of cold water, and when all their virtue is extracted stir, in a httle 
bran or rjre-riieal to thicken the liquid; the herbs must not be removed from the 
Liquid. 

This is a useful application for epraius and bruises. 

Linseed Poultice —Take four ounces of powdered linseijd, and gradually 
sprinkle it into a half pint of hot water. 

A REMEDY FOR BOILS. 

An excellent remedy for boils is water of a temperature agreeable to the 
feelings of the patient. Apply wet linen to the part affected, and frequently 
renew or moisten it. It is said to be the most effectual remedy known. Take 
Inwardly some good blood purifier. 

CURE FOR RINGWORMS. 
Yellow does, root or leaves, steeped in vinegar, will cure the worst case of 
ringworm. 



jfcencb TOlor&s in CooKtng. 

Aspie — Savory jelly for cold dishes. 

Au gratm — Dishes prepared with sauce and crumbs, and baked. 

Bouehies — Very thin patties or cakes, as name indicates — mouthful*. 

Baia — A peculiar, sweet French yeast cake. 

Bechamel— A. rich, white sauce made with stock. 

'Bisque — A white soup made of shell fish. 

To Blanch — To place any article on the fire till it boils, then plunge it in cold 
wa,ter; to whiten poultry, vegetables, etc. To remove the skin by immersing in 
boiling water. 

Bouillon — A clear soup, stronger than broth, yet not so strong as consommS, 
wHich is "reduced" soup. 

Braiii—Meat cooked in a closely covered stew-pan, so that it retains its own 
flavor and those of the vegetables and flavorings put with it. 

Brioche — A very rich, unsweetened, French cake made with yeast. 

Cannehn — Stuffed rolled-up meat. 

Conaommi — Clear soup or bouillon boiled down till very rich, i. «., consumed. 

Croquettes — A savory mince of fish or fowl, made with sauce into shapes, 
and fried. 

Oroustadea — Fried forms of bread to serve minces, or other meats upon. 

EntrSe — A small dish usually served between the courses at dinner. 

Vondue — A light preparation of melted cheese. 

Fondant — Sugar boiled and beaten to a creamy paste. 

HollandaUe Sauce — A rich sauce, something like hot mayonnaise. 

Matelote — A rich fish stew, with wine. 

Mayonnaise — A rich salad dressing. 

Meringue — Sugar and white of egg beaten to sauce. 

Marmade — A liquor of spices, vinegar, etc., in which fish or meats are steeped 
before cooking. 

Mvroton — Cold meat warmed in various ways, and dished in circular form. 

Purse — ^This name is given to very thick soups, the ingredients for thickening 
which have been rubbed through la sieve. 

Poulette Bauce — A bechamel sauce to which white wine, and sometimes eggs 
are added. 

Bagovt — A rich, brown stew, with mushrooms, vegetables, etc. 

Piquante — A sauce of several flavors, acid predominating. 

<2"t/ic/fe«— Forcemeat with broad, yolk of eggs, highly seasoned, and formed 
with a spoon to an oval shape; then poached and used either as a dish by them- 
selves or to gariiijii. 

Remoulade — A salad dressing differing from mayontiaihe in that the eggs are 
hard boiled and rubbed in a mortar with mustard, herbs, eLc. 

Rissole — Rich mince of meat or fish, rolled in thin pastry and fried. 

Boux—A cooked mixture of butter and flour, for thickening soups and stews. 

Salmi— A. rich stew of game, cut up and dressed, when half roasted. 

Sauter — To toss meat, etc. , over the fire, in a little fat. 

Souffle — A very light, much whipped-up pudding or omelette. 

Timbale — A sort of pie in a mould. 

Vol au «6n<a— Patties of very light puff paste, made without a dish or mold, 
and filled with meats or preserves, etc. 

—Oatitrine Owtn, in 0ood Bouukeeping. 
m 



The hands of the cook should he always thoroughly cleansed before touching 
or handling anything pertaining to the cooking. Next, there should never be any- 
thing wasted or thrown away that can be turned to account, either for your own 
family or some family in poor circumstances. Bread that has become hard can 
be used for toasting, or for stuffing and pudding. In warm weather any gravies 
or soups that are left from the preceding day should be boiled up and poured 
into clean pans. This is particularly necessary where vegetables have been 
added to the preparation, as it then so soon turns sour. In cooler weather, every 
other day will be often enough to warm up these things. 

In cooking, clear as you p'o; that is to say, do not allow a host of basins, 
plates, spoons and other utensils, to accumulate on the dressers and tables whilst 
you are engaged in preparing the dinner. By a little management and fore ■ 
thought, much confusion may be saved in this way. It is as easy to put a thing 
in its place when it is done with, as it is to keep continually moving it to find 
room for fresh requisites. For instance, after making a pudding, the flour-tub, 
paste-board and rolling-pin should be put away, and any basins, spoons, etc., 
should be neatly packed up near the sink, to be washed when the proper time 
arrives. Neatness, order and method should be always observed. 

Never let your stock of spices, salts, seasonings, herbs, etc., dwindle down 
so low that some day, in the midst of preparing a large dinner, you find your- 
self minus a very important ingredient, thereby causing much confusion and 
annoyance. 

After you have washed your saucepans, fish-kettle, etc., stand them before 
the fire for a few minutes to geti thoroughly dry inside before putting them away. 
They should then be kept in a dry place, in order that they may escape the deteri- 
orating influence of rust, and thereby be quickly destroyed. Never leave sauce- 
pans dirty from one day's use to be cleaned the next; it is slovenly and untidy. 

Da not be afraid of hot water in washing up dishes and dirty cooking uten- 
sils. As these are essentially greasy, lukewarm water cannot possibly have the 
effect of cleansing them efEectually. Do not be chary also of changing and 
renewing the water occasionally. You will thus save yourself much time and 
labor in the long run. 

Keep a cake of sapolio always on hand in the kitchen — always convenient for 
rubbing off stains, from earthenware, tin, glass, in fact, almost )everthing but 
silver; it js a cheap and valuable article, and can be purchased at nearly every 
grocery in the United States. 



Small points on Xi;at>le lEttQuette. 

Delicacy of manner at table stamps both man and woman, for one can, at a 
glance, discern whether a person has been trained to eat well — i. e., to hold the 
knife and fork properly, to eat without the slightest sound of the lips, to drink 
quietly, to use the napkin rightly, to make no noise with any of the implements 



«i 



^K MIS(:ELtANEOUS, 

of the table, and last, but not least, to eat slowly and masticate the food tho- 
roughly. All these points should be most carefully taught to children, and then 
they will always feel at their ease at the grandest tables in the land. There ia 
no position where the innate refinement of a person is more fully exhibited than 
at the table, and nowhere that those who have not been trained in table etiquette 
feel more keenly their deficiencies^ The knife should never be used..to carry 
food to the mouth, but only to cut it up into small mouthfuls; then plate it upon 
the plate at one side, and take the fork in the right hand, and eat all the food 
with it. When both have been used finally, they should be laid diagonal]y..acro89 
the plate, with both handles towards the right hand; this is imderstood by well, 
trained waiters, to be the signal for removing them, together with the plate. 

Be careful to keep the mouth shut closely while masticating the food. It ia 
the opening of the lips which causes the smacking which seems very disgusting. 
Chew your food well, but do it silently, and be careful to take small mouthfuls. 
The knife can be used to cut the meat finely, as large pieces of meat are not 
healthful, and appeal's very indelicate. At many tables, two, three or more 
knives and forks are placed on the table, the knives at the right hand of the 
plate, the forks at the left, — a knifeand a fork for each course, so that there 
need be no replacing of them after the breakfast or dinner is served. The 
smaller ones, which are for game, dessert, or for hot cakes at breakfast, can 
be tucked under the edges of the plate, and the large ones, for the meat and veg- 
etables, are placed outside of them. Be very careful not to clatter your knives 
and forks upon your plates, but use them without noise. When you aie helped 
to anything, do not wait -until the rest of the company are provided, it is not 
considered good breeding. When passing the plate for a second helping, lay 
them together at one side of the plate, with handles to the right. Soup is al- 
ways served for the first course, and it should be eaten with dessert spoons, and 
taken from the sides, not the tips of them, without any sound of the lips, and 
not sucked into the mouth audibly from the ends of the spoon. Bread should 
not be broken into soup or gravy. Never ask to be helped to soup a second time. 
The hostess may ask you to take a second plate, but you will politely dechne. 
Fish chowder, which is served in soup plates, is said to be an exception which 
proves this rule, and when eating of that it is correct to take a second plateful, 
if desired. 

Another generally neglected obligation is that of spreading butter on one's 
bread as it lies in one's plate, or but slightly lifted at one end of the plate; it is 
very frequently buttered in the air, bitten in gouges, and still held in the face 
and eyes of the table with the marks of the teeth on it. Tliis is certainly not 



MlSC£.llAN£OaS. ^ 

■altogether pleasant, and it is better to cut it, a bit at a time, after buttering it, 
and put piece by piece in the mouth with one's finger and thumb. Never help 
yourself to butter, or any other food with your own knife or fork. 2t is not con- 
sidered good taste to mix food on the same plate. Salt piust be left on the side 
of the plate and never on the table-cloth. 

Let us mention a few things concerning the eating of which there is some- 
times doubt. A cream-cake and anything of similar nature should be eaten 
with knife and fork, never bitten. Asparagus — which should be always served 
on bread or toast, so as to absorb superfluou?- moisture— may be taken from the 
finger and thumb; if it is fit to be set before you, the whole of it may be eaten. 
Pastry should be broken and eaten v^th a fork, never cut with a knife. Eaw 
oysters should be eaten with a fork, also fish. Peas and beans, as we all know, 
require the fork only, however, food that cannot be held with a fork should be 
eaten with a spoon. Potatoes, if mashed, should be mashed with the fork. 
Green com should ^e iaten from the cob; but it must be held with a single 
hand. 

Celery, cresses, olives, radishes, and relishes of that kind are, of course, to 
be eaten with the fingers; the salt should be laid upon one's plate, not upon the 
cloth. Fish is to be eaten with the fork, without the assistance of the knife; a 
bit of bread in the left hand sometimes helps one to master a refractory morsel. 
Fresh fruit should be eaten vath a silver bladed-knife, especially pears, apples, 
etc. 

Bemes, of course, are to be eaten with a spoon. In England they are served 
with their hulls on, and three of four are considered an ample quantity. But 
then in England they are many times the size of ours; there they take the big 
berry by the stem, dip into powdered sugar, and eat it as we do the turnip rad- 
ish. It is not proper to drink with a spoon in the cup; nor should one, by- the- 
way, ever quite drain a cup or glass. 

Dou't, when you drink, elevate your glass as if you were going to fltana it 
inverted on your nose. Bring the glass perpendicularly to the lips, and then lift 
it to a slight angle. Do this easily. 

Drink sparingly while eating. It is far better for the digestion not to drink 
tea or coffee until the meal is finished. Drink gently, and do not pour it down 
yOur throat like water turned out of a pitcher. 

When seating yourself at the table, unfold your napkin and lay it across your 
lap in such a maimer that it will not slide off upon the floor; a gentleman should 
place it across his right knee. Do not tuck it into your neck, Uke a child's bib. 
For an old person, however, it is well to attach the napkin to a napkin hook and 



^4 MISCELLANEOUS. 

slip it into the vest or dress buttonholes, to protect their garments, or sew a 
broad tape at two places on the napkin, and pass it over the head. When the 
soup is eaten, wipe the mouth carefully with the napkin, &A use it to wipe the 
hands after meaJs. Finger howls are not a general institution, and yet they 
seem to be quite as needful as the napkin, for the fingers are also liable to be- 
come a little soiled in eating. They can be had quite cheaply, and should be 
half -filled with water, and placed upon the side table or butler's tray, with the 
dessert, bread and cheese, etc. They are passed to each person half -filled with 
water, placed on a parti-colored napkin with a dessert plate underneath, When 
the dessert is placed upon the table. A leaf or two of sweet verbena, an orange 
flower, or a small slice of lemon, is usually put into each bowl to rub upon the 
fingers. The slice of lemon is most commonly used. The finger tips are sh'ghtly 
dipped into the bowl, the lemon juice is squeezed upon them, and then they are 
dried softly upon the napkin. At dinner parties and luncheons they are indis- 
pensable. 

Spoons are sometimes used with firm puddings, but forks are the better style. 
A spoon should never be turned over in the mouth. 

Ladies have frequently an affected way of holding the knife half-way down 
its length, as if it were too big for their httle hands; but this is as awkward a 
way as it is weak; the knife should be grasped freely by the handle only, the 
fore finger being the only one to touch the blade, and that only along the back 
of the blade at its root, and no further down. 

At the conclusion of a coiu-se, where they have been used, knife and fork 
should be laid side by side across the middle of the plate — never crossed; the old 
custom of crossing them was in obedience to an ancient religious formula. The 
servant should o^er everything at the left of the guest, that the guest may be 
at Uberty to use the right hand. If one has been given a napkin ting, it is nec- 
essary to fold one's napkin and use the ring; otherwise the napkin should be 
left unfolded. One's teeth are not to be picked at table; but if it is impossible 
to hinder it, it should be done behind the napkin. One may pick a bone at the 
table, but, as with com, only one hand is allowed to touch it; yet one can usually 
get enough from it with knife and fork, which is certainly the more elegant way 
of doing; and to take her teeth to it gives a lady the look of caring a little too 
mucli for the pleasures of the table; dne is, however, on no accoxmt to suck one's 
finger after it 

Wherever there is any doubt as to the best way to do a thing, it is wise to 
follow that which is the most rational, and that will almost invariably be found 
to be proper etiquette. To be at ease is a great step towards enjoying your o^m 



MISCELLANEOUS. ^^5 

dinner; and making yourself agreeable tp the company. There is a reason for 
everything in polite usage; thus the reason why one does not blow a thing to 
cool it, is not only that it is an inelegant and vulgar action intrinsically, but be- 
cause it may be offensive to others— can not help being so, indeed; and it,' 
moreover implies haste, which, whether from greediness or a desire to get away, 
is equally objectionable. Everything else may be as easily traced to its origin 
in the fit and becoming. 

If, to conclude, one seats one's self properly at table, and takes reason into 
account, one will do tolerably well. One must not pull one's chair too closely 
to the table, for the natural result of that is the inability to use one's knife aad 
fork without inconveniencing one's neighbors; the elbows are to be held weU in 
and close to one's side, which cannot be done if the chair is too near the board. 
One must not lie or lean along the table, nor rest one's arms upon it. Nor is one 
to touch any of the dishes; if a member of the family, one can exercise all the du- 
ties of hospitality through servants, and wherever there are servants, neither 
family noi* guests are to pass or help from any dish. Finally, when rising from, 
your chair leave it where it stands. 



THE LAYING OF THE TABLE AND THE TREATMENT 
OF GUESTS. 

In giving "dinners," the apparently trifling details are of great importance 
when taken as a whole. 

We gather around our board agreeable persons, and they pay us and our 
dinner the courtesy of dressing for the occasion, and this reunion should be a 
time of psofit as well as pleasure. There are certain established laws by which 
" dinner giving " is regulated in polite society; and it may not be amiss tp give 
few observances in relation to them. One of the first is that an invited guest 
shouid arrive at the house of his host at least a quarter of an hour before the 
time appointed for dirner. In laying the table for dinner all the linfen should 
be a spotless white throughout, and underneath the linen table-cloth should be 
spread one of thick cotton-flannel or baize, which gives the linen a heavier and 
finer appearance, also deadening the sound of moving dishes. Large and neatly 



folded napkins (ironed wittiout starch), with pieces of bread three or fonr in 
ches long, placed between the folds, but not to completely concealit, are laid on 
each plate. An ornamental centre-piece, or a vaae filled with a few rare flow- 
ers, is put on the centre of the table, in place of the large table-castor, which ha£ 
gone into disuse, and is rarely seen now on well-appointed tables. A few choice 
flowers make a charming variety in the appearance of even the most simply laid 
table, and a pleasing variety at taHe is quite as essential to the enjoyment of the 
repast as is a good choice of dishes, for the eye in fact should be gratified as 
much as the palate. 

All dishes should be arranged in harmony with the decorations of the flowers, 
such as covers, relishes, confectionary, and small sweets. Garnishing of dishes 
has also a great deal to do with the appearance of a dinner-table, each dish gar- 

Qishedjsil£§|VBiitfy to be in good taste without looldng absurd. 

Beside each plate stould Be laid as many knives, forks, and spoons as will 
be required for the several courses, unless the hostess prefers to have them 
brought on with each change. A glass of water, and when wine is served 
glasses for it, and individual salt-cellars may be placed at every plate. Water- 
bottles are now much in vogue with corresponding tumblers to cover theiri; 
tLcso, accompanied with dishes ol broken ice, may be arranged in suitable 
places. When butter is served a special knife is used, and that, with all other 
required service, may be left to the judgment and taste of the hostess, in the 
proper placing of the various aids to her guests' comfort. 

The dessert plates should be set ready, each with a doOy and a finger-glass 
partly filled with water, in which is dropped a dice of lemon; these, with 
extra knives, forks and spoons, should be on the side-board ready to be placed 
by the guest, between the coiffses when required. 

If preferred, the " dinner " may all be served from the side-table, thus relisv- 
ing the host from the task of carving. A plate is set before each guest, and the 
dish carved is presented by the waiter on the left-hand side of eeich guest. At 
the end of each course the plates give way for those of the next. If not served 
from the side-table, the dishes are brought in ready carved, and placed before 
the host and hostess, then served axA placed upon the waiter's salver, to be laid 
by that attendant before the guest. 

Soup and fish being the first course, plates of soup are usually placed on the 
table before the dinner is announced; or if the hostess wishes the soup served at 
the table, the soup-tvu*een, containing hat soup, and the warm soup-plates are 
placed before the seat of the hostess. Soup and fish being disposed of, theu 
come the joints or roasts, entrees (made dishes), poultry, etc., also relishes. 



mrSCMLLANEOGS. -^1 

After dishes have been passed fhafc are required no more, such as vegetables, 
hot sauces, etc., the dishes containing them may be set upon the side, board, ready 
to be taken away. 

Jellies and sauces, when not to be eaten as a dessert, should.be helped on the 
dinner-plate, not on a small side dish as was the former usage. 

If a dish be on the table, some parts of which are preferred to others, accord 
ing to the taste of the individuals, all should have the opportunity of choice. 
The host vrill simply ask each one if he has any preference for a particular part; 
if he replies in the negative, you are not to repeat the question, nor insist that 
he must have a preference. 

Do not attempt to eulogize your dishes, or apologize that you cannot recom- 
mend them,— this is extreme bad taste; as also is the vaunting of tl?e excellence 
of your wines, etc., etc. 

Do not insist upon yom- guests partaking of particular dishes. Do not ask 
persons more than once, and never force a supply upon their plates. It is ill- 
bred, though common, to press any one to eat; and moreover, it is a great an- 
noyance to many. 

In winter, plates should always be warmed, but not made hot. Two kinds 
of animal food, or two kinds of dessert, shoidd not be eaten off of one plate, and 
there should never be more than two kinds of vegetables vnth one course. As- 
paragus, green com, cauliflower and raw tomatoes, comprise one coinse in place 
of a salad. All meats should be cut across the grain in very thin slices. Fish, 
at dinner, should be baked or boiled, never fried or broiled. Baked ham may 
be used in every course after fish, sUced thin and handed after the regular coiuBe 
is disposed of. 

The hostess should retain her plate, knife and fork, imtil her guests have fin- 
ished. 

The crumb-brush is not used, until the preparation for bringing in the des- 
sert; then all the glasses are removed, except the flowers, the water-tumblers, 
and the glass of wine which the guest wishes to retain vnth his dessert. The des- 
sert plate containing the finger-bowl, also a dessert knife and fork, should then 
be set before each guest, who at once removed the finger-bowl and its doily, and 
the knife and fork to the table, leaving the plate ready to be used for any des- 
sert chosen. 

Finely sifted sugar should always be placed upon the table to be used with 
puddings, pies, fruit, etc., and if cream is required, let it stand by the dish it is 
to be served with. 

To lay a dessert for a amall entertainment, and a few guests outside of th» 



^s8 MFSCEILANEOVSI. 

faniily,~'i^n^y consist 8Tmpl7 of two dishes of fresh fruit In season, two of dried 
fruits and two each of cakes and nuts.. 

Coffee and tea are served lastly, poured into tiny cups and served clear, 
passed around on a tray to each guest, then the sugar and cream passed, that 
eath person may be allowed to season his black coffee or caf6 noir to suit him- 
self. 

A fariiily dinner, even with a few friends, can be made quite attractive and 
satisfactory without much display or expense; consisting first of good soup, then 
fish garnished with suitable' additions, followed by a roast; then vegetables and 
some made dishes, a salad, crackers, cheese and olives, then dessert. This sen- 
sible meal, well cooked and neatly served, is pleasing to almost any one, and is 
within the means of any housekeeper in ordinary circumstances. 



BEVEBAGES.^ 397 

Ale, Mulled, or Egg Flip 406 

Beer 403 

Buttermilk as a Driuk 400 

Cherry Bounce 403 

Chocolate 399 

Cocoa ,...., 400 

CofEee 397 

Coffee, Filtered or Drip 398 

Coffee, Healing Properties of 397 

Coffee, Iced 398 

Coffee, Substitute for Cream in... 398 

Coffee, Vienna 398 

Cordial, Blackberry 403 

Cordial, Noyeau 406 

Cream Soda Without Fountain... 405 

Egg Flip, or Mulled Ale 406 

Egg Nogg 406 

Inexpensive Drink 409 ■ 

Junket, Delicious 404 

Koumiss 408 

Lemonade 407 

Lemon Syrup 405 

Mead, Sassafras 405 

Pineappleade 409 

Punch 406 

Punch, Boman 404 

Raspberry Shrub 404 

Syrup, Lemon 404 

Syrup,Strawberry and Raspberry 407 
The Healing Properties of Tea or 

Coffee 397 

Tea, Iced 399 

Tea, To Make 399 

Vinegar 408 

Wine, Blackberry 401 

Wine, Currant 401 

Wine, Grape 401 

Wine, Honey or Methelin 403 

Wine, Orange, Florida 403 

Wine, Raisin 403 

Wines Whey..................... 405 



Beead gii 

Bread, Brown, Boston, 216 

Bread, Compressed Yeast 213 

Bread, Corn 219 

Bread, Corn and Rye 218 

Bread, French 218 

Bread, German gl9 

Bread, Graham 216 

Bread, Milk Yeast 215 

Bread, Rye 217 

Bread, Rye and Corn 21& 

Bread, Self-Raising 215 

Bread, Twist 218 

Bread, Wheat 313 

Cake, Corn 819 

Cake, Indian Loaf 220 

Cake, Johnnie 220 

Cake, Potato, Raised 231 

Southern Corn Meal Pone, or Corn 

Dodgers '. 221 

Yeast 215 

Biscuits, Rolls, Muffins, Etc.: 221 

Biscuit, Baking Powder 223 

Biscuit, Beaten 235 

Biscuit, Egg 324 

Biscuit, Graham (With Yeast) 224 

Biscuit, Grafton Milk 236 

Biscuit, Light 234 

Biscuit, Potato 336 

Biscuit, Raised 233 

Biscuit, Soda 233 

Biscuit, Sour Milk 233 

Biscuit, Vinegar 326 

Bread, Warm for Breakfast 222 

Bread Crumbs, Prepared 24S 

Buns, London Hot Cross 227 

Cake, Newport Breakfast 241 

Cakes, Buckwheat 236 

Cakes, Drop 232 

Cakes, Flannel (With Yeast) 233 

Cakes, Tea, Berry 232 

Cakes, Griddle........ 834 



i^@ 



iJl^DEX. 



FASS. 

BiBcmTs, Rolls, Muffins, Etc. — Cont. 

Carmelons, or Pried Puffs 238 

Cracked Wheat 245 

Crackers 242 

Cracknels 228 

Croquettes 244 

Crumpets 242 

Fritters 237 

Gems, Graham 230 

Hominy 244 

Hulled Corn or Samp 245 

Muffins 229 

Mush, Corn Meal, or Hasty Pud- 
ding 243 

Mush, Fried 243 

Oat Flakes 245 

Oat Meal 243 

Oat Meal, Steamed 245 

Popovers 233 

Prepared Bread Crumbs 242 

Puff Balls 241 

Puffs, Breakfast, 242 

Eoils, Dinner, Fried 241 

Rolls 824 

Rice, Boiled 244 

Rusks 227 

Sally Lunn 826 

Samp, or Hulled Corn 245 

Scones, Scotch 228 

Short Cake 240 

Waffles 231 

Butter and Cheese 194 

Butter 194 

Cheese 196 

Cheese Straws, Cayenne 198 

Curds and Cream. 195 

Pastry Ramakins 197 

Rarebit, Welsh 198 

Slip ...„..,..,.....,... 196 

Welsh Rarebit 198 

Cake, Etc 851 

Suggestions in Regard to Cake 

Making 251 

Cake, Almond............................. 267 

Oake. Anjrel.„..,.-...„,,o.,o.oo.,o„oooo.oo.. %%% 



Cake, Etc. — Continued: 

Cake, Bread or Raised 256 

Cake, Bride 259 

Cake, Chocolate 262 

Cake, Citron 260 

Cake, Cocoanut 363 

Cake, Coffee 264 

Cake, Cream 264 

Cake, Cream, Whipped 868 

Cake, Custard or Cream 271 

Cake, Delicate 260 

Cake, Election 264 

Cake, Feather 864 

Cake, Fruit 256 

Cake, Ginger Bread 272 

Cake, Gold 261 

Cake, Gold and Silver 273 

Cake, Golden Spice 267 

Cake, Golden Cream 264 

Cake, Gold or Lemon 261 

Cake, Hickory Nut or Walnut. ... 271 

Cake, Huckleberry 274 

Cake, Jelly 268 

Cake, Layer, To Cut 268 

Cake, Lemon 260 

Cake, Lemon or Gold 261 

Cake, Loaf 262 

Cake, Marble 261 

Cake, Pound 260 

Cake, Queen's 266 

Cake, Ribbon „ 266 

Cake, Silver or Delicate 261 

Cake, Snow (Delicious) 861 

Cake, Sponge 257 

Cake, Sweet Strawberry 874 

Cake, White Mountain 265 

Cake, Without Eggs 265 

Cake, Fillings .........269 to 271 

Cakes, Cornstarch 277 

Cakes, Cream Boston 273 

Cakes, Cup 276 

Cakes, Cup, Molasses 274 

Cakes, Fancy 275 

Cakes, Fried, or Doughnuts ..... . 881 

Gftkes, Jelly, Brasiswi<c!k,„„..„o„. „, , W* 



INDEX. 



431 



rA«. 

Cake, Etc.— <7<»n<t«««i." 

Cakes, Molasses Cup 274- 

Cakes, Nut, Fried 283 

Cakes, Peach 276 

Cakes, Plum, Little 279 

Cakes, Variegated 277 

C6okies 280 

Crullers, or Fried Cakes 281-2 

Doughnuts 281-2 

Drops, Sponge 877 

Dominoes 275 

Eclairs, Chocolate 273 

Frosting, or Icing 253 

Gingerbread 373 

Ginger Biscuit, White 273 

Ginger Cookies _ 875 

Ginger Snaps 274 

Icing 254 

Jumbles 279 

Lady Fingers, or Savory Biscuit. 277 

Keapolitaines 278 

Sandwiches, Pastry 278 

Savory Biscuit 277 

Trifles 283 

Wafers 376 

CAKNEI) I'^triTS AND VE6ETABLBS... 389 

Boiled Cider, Canned 393 

Canned Corn 393 

Canned Fruit Juices 391 

Canned Grapes 390 

Canned Mince Meat 393 

Canned Peaches 390 

Canned Peas 392 

Canned Pineapple 391 

Canned Plums 392 

Canned Pumpkin 393 

Canned Quinces 391 

Canned Strawberries 390 

Canned Tomatoes 391 

Peach Butter. 393 

Peaches Dried with Sugar 394 

To Can Corn 392 

To Can Peas 392 

ToCais Pineapple... iM 



FAOE, 

Carving; _ 2 

Beef, Hind-Quarter 2 

Beef, Pore-Quarter 2 

Beef, Sirloin of 8 

Duck, Roast 18 

Fowls, Roast 17 

Goose, Roast 17 

Ham, Roast 14 

Lamb, Fore-Quarter 13 

Mackerel 20 

Mutton 5 

Mutton, Leg of 12 

Partridges 18 

Pheasant 19 

Pigeons 19 

Pork 6 

Salmon, Boiled 80 

Turkey, Roast 16 

Veal, Breast of 9 

Veal, Pore-Quarter 4 

Veal, Fillet of 10 

Veal, Hind-Quarter „ 4 

Veal, Neck of 11 

Venison 7 

Venison, Haunch of 15 

Catsitps: 

Catsup, Various 153 

Vinegar, Celery 158 

Vinegar, Spiced 159 

Cocoa. (See Beverages) 

Chocolate. (See Beverages) 

Coffee. (See Beverages) 

CUSTAEDS, CbEAMS AND DESEBTS 303 

Almonds, Salted or Roasted 385 

Apples, Stewed 328 

Blanc Mange 318 

Cake, Peach 325 

Charlotte, Fruit, etc 320 

Chestnuts, Roast 325 

Cream, Bavarian, etc .....^ 310 

Cream, For Fruit 316 

Cream, Golden Sll 

Cream, ItaHan 313 

Cream, Lemop.. 311 



DEX. 



PASS 
^USTAEDS, CKEAMS AND DESSEBTS — (Jont. 

Cream, Mock, or Boiled Custard.. 307 

Cream Pie 324 

Cream, Snow 414 

Cream, Tapioca Custard 313 

Oreain, Velvet, with Strawberry.. 324 

Cream, Whipped 309 

Croutons, After Dinner 325 

Crystallized Fruit 337 

Custard 308 

Dessert PufEs 335 

Float 314 

Floating Island : 318 

Fritters, Jelly 338 

Fruit, Crystallized 337 

Fruit Short Cake 325 

Gooseberry Fool 329 

Honey, Lemon 317 

Jelly, Cider 333 

Jelly Kisses 330 

Jelly, Lemon, etc 331 

Jelly, Wine 331 

Kisses, Jelly 330 

Kisses or Merin^es 339 

Meringue, Cornstarch 334 

Meringue, Peach 314 

Meringues or Kisses 339 

Macaroons 331 

Mock Ice 314 

Naples Biscuit, or Charlotte Eusse 323 

Omelet, Sweet 326 

Peaches and Cream 327 

Pears, Baked, etc 328 

PufEs, Dessert 325 

Quinces, Baked 329 

Salad of Mixed Fruits 327 

Salad, Orange Cocoanut 327 

Short Cakes, Fruit 335 

Snow Pyramid 328 

Snow, Apple, etc 316 

Sponge, Lemon, etc 315 

Syllabub 315 

Toast, Lemon 326 

Trifle, Fruit .••• 316 

Washington Pie.............. 324 



Dinner Giying 425 

Dressings and Sauces 138 

Dumplings and Puddings 339 

Eggs AND Omelets: 199 

Eggs and Bacon, Mixed 203 

Eggs, aux Fines Herbes 202 

Eggs, Boiled 200 

Eggs, Boiled, Soft 200 

Eggs, Cold, for Picnic 203 

Eggs, Fried 201 

Eggs, in Cases 202 

Eggs, Minced 203 

Epgs, Mixed, generally: savory 

or sweet .- 203 

Eggs, Poached, a la Creme 203 

Eggs, Poached or Dropped 201 

Eggs, Scalloped 200 

Eggs, Scrambled 201 

Eggs, Shirred 200 

Eggs, To preserve 199 

Omelets 203 

Omelet, Soufde 208 

Fish 41 

Fish, to Fry 43 

Modes of Frying 40 

Fish and Oyster Pie 45 

Bass, Boiled 47 

Blue Fish ; 47 

Chowder (Rhode Island) 54 

Clams 68 

Codfish , 54 

Grabs : 61 

Crab Croquettes 61 

Crab Pie 61 

Crabs, Soft Shell 63 

Fritters 56 

Frogs 69 

Halibut 48 

Fish, in White Sauce 53 

Lobster 59 

Lobster Croquettes and Patties.... 6G 

Mackerel, fresh 52 

Mackerel, salt 51 

Mackerel, Spanish 51 

Mayounaise............ 54 



tNDMX: 



433 



Fish— <7«ifo*n««(f.« 

Mode Kit Fryingf. „ 40 

Oysters 63 

Oyster Fritters „ 65 

Oyster Fatties 65 

Oyster Pie (Boston) 66 

Oyster Pot Pie 86 

Oysters, Mock 67 

Pickerel 43 

Pie 45 

Potted (fresh) > 59 

Potted ...„ 53 

Salmon „ 43 

Salmon, Pickled 44 

Salmon, Smoked ;.. 45 

Scalloped 55 

Shad 46 

Shad Roe (to cook) 47 

Sheepshead, with Drawn Butter 47 

Smelts 50 

Steamed 46 

Sturgeon, Fresh Steak Marinade 53 

Trout, Brook, 49 

Trout, Salmon 50 

White 48 

Scallops............. 69 

Terrapin 57 

Turtle or Terrapin Stew.. 57 

Fbknch Woeds in Cookhtg 420 

Game and Poultet.. 70 

Ice Ceeams and Ices -„..... 334 

Cream, Fruit .= 336 

Frozen Fruits.... 337 

Ices 337 

Ice Creams 334 

Ice Cream, Without a Freezer 336 

Sherbet ......... 337 

Jellies and Peesebvbs.- 376 

Macasoni...... 193 

Meats ,... 94 

Beef 90 

Beef a la Mode....... 99 

Beef , Brisket of , Stewed. ......o.... 106 

Beef, Cold Eoast, W»rmed«......... 107 



Beef Croquettes 106 

Beef, Corned or Salted (Red) 103 

Beef, Dried 104 

Beef, Dried, with Cream 106 

Beef, Flank of, to CoUar 101 

Beef, Frizzled 104 

Beef Hash 108 

Beef Heart, Stewed 109 

Beef Heart, to Roast 109 

Beef Kidney, Stewed 109 

Beef Liver, Fried 105 

Beef, Pot Boast (Old Style) 98 

Beef, Pressed 105 

Beef, Roast 96 

Beef Pie „ 103 

Beef, Spiced 90 

Beef, Spiced, Relish 105 

Beefsteak „ 97 

Beefsteak and Onions 98 

Beefsteak and Oysters 98 

Beefsteak, Stewed 100 

Beefsteak, Flank 104 

Beefsteak, Hamburger 109 

Beefsteak Pie 103 

Beefsteak Rolls 101 

Beefsteak, Smothered 101^ 

Beef Stew, French 105 

Beef, Tenderloin of 100 

Beef, To Clarify Drippings of Ill 

Beef Tongue 110 

Beef, To Pot 105 

Brain Cutlets 118 

Calf's Head... 117 

Calf's Head Cheese 117 

Calf 's Liver and Bacon 118 

Meat and Potato Croquettes 107 

Meat Cold, and Potatoes, Baked.. 108 

Meat, Thawing Frozen, Etc 95 

Meat, To Keep From Flies 96 

Sweetbreads......... 110 

Tripe ..,. 110 

Veal, Braised..^.. _ 111 

Veal, Cheese.... Si* 

Veal Chops Fried (Plaio)...... ...... \%f 



434 



iNDEX. 



rum. 

BBEr—Oontimied: 

Veal CoUops 113 

Veal Croquettes 114 

Veal Cutlets 113 

Veal, Fillet of 112 

Veal for Lunch............ 116 

Veal, Loaf 116 

Veal, Loin of. Roast Ill 

Veal Olives 113 

Veal Patties 116 

Veal Pie 115 

Veal Pot Pie 114 

Veal Pudding 113 

Veal Stew 115 

Yorkshire Pudding, For Veal 97 

liAMB Am> Mutton 120 

Lamb, Croquettes of Odds and 

Ends of 127 

Lamb, Fore-Quarter of. To BroiL 126 

Lamb, Pressed 126 

Lamb, Quarter of , Boasted 125 

Lamb Stew. 126 

Lamb Sweetbreads and Tomato 

Sauce 125 

Mutton, Boned Leg of. Boasted 120 

Mutton Chops, Broiled 122 

Mutton Chops, Fried 123 

Mutton Cutlets (Baked) 123 

Muttonettes 124 

Mutton, Hashed 122 

Mutton, tish Stew 124 

Mutton, Leg of, a la Venison 121 

Mutton, Leg of 121 

Mutton Pudding 124 

Mutton, Boast 120 

Mutton, Scalloped, and Tomatoes 125 
Mutton, Scrambled 125 

PoBK 187 

Bacon and Eggs, Cold 133 

Bacon, To Cure English ,....,. 133 

Cheese, Head.. 136 

Ham and Eggs, Fried _ 132 

Ham 134 

Ham, To Bake a (Corned)............ 133 

HaSln Pott6d...o.o^oo.....oeoeoeDODO«ooo«» S^ 



fAma 
PoEK— Contin'uecl: 

Ham and Bacon, To Cure 130 

Hams and Fish, To Smoke at 

Home 136 

Head Cheese 138 

Lard, To Try Out 137 

Pig, Boast... 127 

Pigs' Feet, Pickled 133 

Pork and Beans 131 

Pork Chops 130 

Pork Cutlets 130 

Pork, Fresh, Pot Pie 129 

Pork, Leg of 128 

Pork, Loin of. Boast 123 

Pork Pie 130 

Pork, Pot Pie 131 

Pork, Salt 132 

Pork, Spare Bibs of. Boasted 129 

Pork Tenderloin 129 

Roast Pig ; 127 

Sausages 135 

Sausages, To Fry 135 

Scrappel ,... 133 

Meabtjbes a»d Weights 429 

Pastbt, Pies ahb Tabtb: 284 

How to Make a Pie 885 

Icing Pastry 285 

Crust, Potato 888 

Chess Cakes 305 

Maids of Hqnor 304 

Mince Meat Mock, Without 

Meat 301 

Meat for Mince Pies (Cooked) 300 

Patties or Shells for Tarts„ 289 

Pie, Apple 889 

Pie, Apricot Meringue...... 291 

Pie, Berry, Ripe 297 

Pie, Blackberry 296 

Pie, Cocoanut 291 

Pie, Cherry ......=.... 295 

Pie, Cranberry............................ 298 

Pie, Cranberry Tart_...,„...... 298 

Pie, Cream............ ....... ............ 293 

Pie. Currant................ ............... 898 



rimmx. 



43S 



PA8TBT, Pbm, AHD Tabts— Conto'ftwed.' 
Pie, Custard...^......,. ..„„.,... ......293-4 

Pie, Dried Fruit ,„.„........„..... 397 

Pie, Fruit, German...... 304 

Pie, Gooseberry................. 298 

Pie, Grape 297 

Pie, Huckleberry 296 

Pie, Jelly and Preserved Fruit.... 298 

Pie, Lemon 292 

Pie, Lemon, Baisin 296 

Pie, Mince 300 

Fie, Molasses 296 

Pie, Orange 293 

Pie, Peach 297 

Pie, Pineapple 297 

Pie, Plum and Damson............... 297 

Pie, Pumpkin..... 299 

Pie, Rhubarb 296 

Pie, Ripe Berry. 297 

Pie, Squash 299 

Pie, Sweet Potato 299 

Pie, Tomato, Green 295 

Pie Crust, Plain 287 

Pie Crust, Rule for Undercrust... 287 

PufE Paste 286 

PufE Paste, Soyer's Recipe for..... 287 

Pumpkin or Squash for Pies 298 

Tartlets » 288 

Tarts 389 

Turnover, Fruit, Suitable for 
Picnics 301 

Pickles; 159 

Green Pepper Mangoes 162 

Piccalili 165 

Pickle, An Ornamental 165 

Pickle, East India............. 165 

Pickle, Pear. 167 

Pickle, Sweet, for Fruit 167 

Pickle, Watermelon .^.... 167 

Pickled Butternuts and Walnuts, 166 

Pickled Cabbage 161 

Pickled Cherries.... ...„.„.... 168 

Piekled Cauliflower,. ...... ............ 162 

Pickled Eggs.................-..-".— 16S 

Pickled Green Pepper*. .,.„.o,...«.., 16SS 



PioELKB— Continuti: 

Pickled Mangoes .........o. 103 

Pickled Mushrooms...... 161 

Pickled Onions 163 

Pickled Oysters 164 

Pickles, Blue-berry 166 

Pickles, Chow Chow (Superior 

English Recipe) 163 

Pickles, Cucumber.... 150 

Pickles, Cucumber, Ripe 164 

Pickles, Cucumbers, Sliced 160 

Pickles, East India 165 

Pickles, Mixed 166 

Pickles, Green Tomato (Sweet)... 160 

Spiced Currants 163 

Spiced drapes. 168 

Spiced Plums................... 168 

PouLTBT AKD Game:..... 70 

Chicken, Boiled.................... 75 

Chicken, Breaded 80 

Chicken, Broiled or Toast 80 

Chicken Broiled 77 

Chicken Croquettes 78 

Chicken Croquettes, To Fry 79 

Chicken Curry 81 

Chicken Dressed as Terrapin 82 

Chicken, Fried 78 

Chicken Fricassee 75 

Chicken, Lunch for Traveling 79 

Chicken, Maccaroniand 84 

Chicken Patties.......................... 77 

Chicken, Pickled ,. 76 

Chicken Pie 77 

Chicken Pot-pie 81 

Chicken, Potted...... 80 

Chicken, Pressed........................ 79 

Chicken Pudding ...... 83 

Chicken, Rissoles of.......... 78 

Chicken, Roast 74 

Chicken Boley-Poley.......... ........ 83 

Chicken, Scalloped................ 80 

Chicken, Steamed. 75 

Chicken, Stewed (Whole Spring). 73 
Chicken, Stewed With Biscuit..... 88 
Chicken TnrnoTeM...,.^,,.,, ,......,.. 9? 



4f5 



iNDBX. 



PotJiTBT AND Oijusx—Cowtiimed: 

Dressing or Stuffing for Fowls... 72 

Duck, Canvas Back 86 

Duck, Tame 84 

Duck, Wild. - 86 

Game Pie.„ 88 

Game, Salmi of 90 

Goose, Boast • 74 

Goose, To Roast 88 

Hare, Boast 89 

Partridges, To Roast, Etc 88 

Pigeons 86 

Pigeon Pie 87 

Quail, To Roast 88 

Quail, To Roast, Etc 88 

Rabbits 89 

Reed Birds 88 

Salmi of Game 90 

Snipe 88 

Snow Birds 89 

Squab Pot-Pie 87 

Squirrels 89 

Turkey 71 

Venison 91 

Woodcock , 87 

E'BESEBVES, Jeixies, Etc. : 376 

A New Way of Keeping Fruit 388 

T^randied Peaoh.es or Pears., 38? 

-am .r. 387 

Jellies, Fruit 383 

Maoedoines 388 

Marmalade 386 

Orange Syrup 386 

Pine Apple Preserves. 380 

Preserved Fruit 377 

Preserving Fruit (New Mode) 382 

Preserving Fruit (New Method hi) 383 
Raisins (A French Marmalade). ... 38Q 
To Preserve and Dry Green 

Gages 381 

To Preserve Berries Whole 378 

To Preserve Fruit Without Sugar 3SS 
To Preserve Water Melon and 

6Uros Bind.. .,,,„. ..„.„.„.„„„,,.,.„ ^Uio 



Puddings Airo DrrKPi,iNe8. 339 

A Royal Dessert 370 

Batter, Common 343 

Berry Bolls, Baked 368 

Cobler, Peach 367 

Currants, To Clean 341 

Dumplings 341 

Dumplings, Rice, Boiled (Custard 

Sauce) 342 

Paffets, Apple, Boiled 343 

Pudding, Almond 344 

Pudding, Apple and Brown Bread 346 

Pudding, Apple 344 

Pudding, Banana 367 

Pudding, Batter 347 

Pudding, Berry, Cold 345 

Pudding, Blackberry and Whor- 

tleben^ 384 

Pudding, Bird's Nest 344 

Pudding, Bread and Butter 344 

Pudding, Cabinet 354 

Pudding, Cherry, Boiled or 

Steamed 352 

Pudding, Chocolate 357 

Pudding, Coooanut 352 

Pudding, Cold Fruit 349 

Pudding, Corn Meal 351 

Pudding, Corn Meal, Fruit 360 

Pudding, Corn Meal Puffs 351 

Pudding, Corn Starch 349 

Pudding, Christmas Plum, By 

Measure 353 

Pudding, Cottage 352 

Pudding, Cracker 350 

Pudding, Cranberry, Baked 355 

Pudding, Cream 349 

Pudding, Cuban 350 

Pudding, Currant, Boiled 364 

Pudding, Custard 348 

Pudding, Delmonico 361 

Pudding, English Plum (The 

Genuine) 353 

Pudding, Fig. 359 

Pudding, Fruit............. „ 360-'. 

Padding, Fruit, Cold.,.,<,.„„„.,.,..,„, %Af 



WDEX 



FA6>. 

Pttodings and Dumplikgs— Can«i?i«ed; 

Pudding, Corn Meal .; 360 

Pudding, Fruit, Puff 366 

Pudding, Fruit, Kice 363 

Pudding, Graham 366 

Pudding, Green Corn 368 

Pudding, Hominy 368 

Pudding, Huckleberry, Baked.... 364 

Pudding, Indian, Delicate 351 

Pudding, Jelly 369 

Pudding, Lemon (Queen of Pud- 
dings). .... 355 

Pudding, Minute ... 369 

Pudding, Nantucket 361 

Pudding, Orange 355 

Pudding, Orange, Eoley Poley ... 365 

Pudding, Peach, Dried 367 

Pudding, Peach, Pear and Apple. 359 
Pndding, Pie Plant or Rhubarb.. 360 

Pudding, Pineapple 365 

Pudding, Plum, English (The 

Genuine) 353 

Pudding, Plum, Baked ............... 354 

Pudding, Without Eggs 354 

Pudding, Prune 364 

Pudding, Quick 370 

Pudding, Raspberry 359 

Pudding, Ready 870 

Pudding, Rhubarb or Pie Plant... 360 

Pudding, Rice, Boiled 363 

Pudding, Rice 362 

Pudding, Roley Poley.. „..,.,..„..„ 365 

Pudding, Sago 357 

Pudding, Saucer 361 

Pudding, Snow 361 

Pudding, Sponge Cake 366 

Pudding, Strawberry Tapioca 359 

Pudding, Suet 367 

Pudding, Sunderland 369 

Pudding, Sweet Potato............... 365 

Pudding, Tapioca 358 

Pudding, Tai^oca, Apple............ 345 

Pudding, Toast 363 



Puddings and Ddmplinss— GMi<m««d.- 
Pudding, Whortleberry and 

Blackberry 349 

Geneva Wafers 368 

Huckleberries With Crackers and 

Cream 370 

Royal Dessert, A 379 

To Chop Suet.. 341 

To Stone Raisins 341 

Saiads AND Dressings 149 

Celery, Undressed 155 

Cucumbers, To Dress Raw 155 

Dressing, Cream Salad 150 

Dressing for Cold Slaw 150 

Dressing, Mayonnaise 149 

Dressing, Salad, French 150 

Endive 154 

Horse Radish 156 

Lettuce 156 

Peppergrass and Cress 155 

Radishes 155 

Salad, Celery 154 

Salad, Chicken 151 

Salad, Lobster 151 

Salad, Potato 154 

Salad, Summer, Mixed 151 

Salad, Tomato 154 

Slaw, Cold 153 

Slaw, Hot 153 

Slaw, Cold, Dressing for 150 

Sandwiches 209 

Sauces and Dressings foe Meats.... 138 

Butter, Drawn 138 

Butter, To Brown 145 

Cocoanut Prepared (For Pies, 

Puddings, Etc.) 146 

Curry Powder 145 

Curry Sauce 145 

Flour, To Brown 145 

Herbs for Winter 147 

Mustard, French 14S 

Mustard, To Make 145 

Meats and Their Accompani- 
ments................ 14? 

<te«l«te A]pplA...c...^<>... '...... ■,,., M&. 



438 



INDEX. 



Sauces and Dressings, Etc. — Oont. 

Pepper, Kitchen 146 

Sauce, Apple 143 

Sauce, Bechamel 141 

Sauce, Bread 140 

Sauce, Brown 141 

Sauce, Caper 140 

Sauce, Celery 140 

Sauce, Chili 141 

Sauce, Cranberry • . 144 

Sauce, Curry, 145 

Sauce, Egg or White 138 

Sauce, Fish 139 

Sauce, For Boiled Cod 139 

Sauce, For Salmon and Other Fish 139 

Sauce, HoUandaise 142 

Sauce, Jelly, Currant 142 

Sauce, Lobster 139 

Sauce, Maitre d'Hotel 142 

Sauce, Mint 141 

Sauce, Mushroom 143 

Sauce, Onion 141 

Sauce, Oyster 138 

Sauce, Tartate 138 

Sauce, Tomato 140 

Sauce, Wine, For Game 142 

Spices 146 

Vegetables Appropriate to Dif- 
ferent Dishes 148 

Vegetables for Breakfast 148 

Vinegar, Cucumber 144 

Vinegar, Flavored 144 

Warm Dishes for Breakfast 148 

Sauces fob Puddings 371 

Brandy, Cold 371 

Brandy, Liquid 873 

Brady or Wine 371 

Caramel %!% 

Oeam, Gold „ 373 

Cream, Warm , 373 

Custard 374 

Fruit 374 

Grandmother's 372 

Hard, Plain, Cold 3T4 

JeUy 374 



FASI 

Sauces for Puddings— ConWwMed. 

Lemon 378 

Milk or Cream 374 

Old Style 374 

Orange Cream 372 

Plain, A Good 373 

Plum Pudding, Superior 372 

Sugar 372 

Sweet, Common 375 

Syrup for Fruit 375 

Wine, Riah 371 1 

Lemon Brandy for Cakes and 

Puddings 375 

Bose Brandy for Cakes and Pud- 
dings 375 

Sice, Cooking FOE THE 4ia 

Acid Drinks 418 

Apples, Baked 414 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange 412 

Arrowroot Milk Porridge 412 

Arrowroot Wine Jelly 413 

Baked Apples 414 

Beefsteak and Mutton Chops 410 

Beef Tea 411 

Blackberry Cordial 417 

Blanc Mange, Arrowroot 412 

Blanc Mange, Irish Moss 415 

Broth, Veal or Mutton 411 

Broth, Clam 415 

Broth, Chicken 4H 

Boiled Rice 414 

Bread Panada 416 

Chicken Jelly 414 

Chicken Broth 411 

Cl«mBroth 415 

Codfish, Milk or Cream 415 

Oornmeal Gruel 411 

Cracker Panada 416 

Oup Pudding 414 

Cup Pudding, Taplooa 414 

Cup Custard „ 4iri 

Egg Gruel 415 

Egg Toast 41.5 

Flax Seed Tea 413 

Flax Seed Lemonade 41-^ 



INDEX. 



439 



PAGE. 

Sick, Cooking for the— OonHwMefi. 

For Children Teething 417 

Gruel, Corn Meal " 411 

Gruel, Egg 412 

Gruel, Oat Meal 411 

Hominy 413 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 415 

Jelly, Arrowroot Wine 413 

Jelly, Chicken 414 

Jelly, Mulled 415 

Jelly, Sago 413 

Jelly, Tapioca 412 

Linseed Tea 417 

Milk Porridge 412 

Milk or Cream Codflsh 416 

Milk Toast, Plain 417 

Mulled Jelly 415 

Mutton Chops and Beefsteak 410 

Mutton or Veal Broth 411 

Oat Meal Gruel 411 

Oyster Toast 415 

Panada, Bread 416 

Panada, Cracker 416 

Porridge, Milk 412 

Porridge, Arrowroot Milk 412 

Pudding, Cup 414 

Pudding, Cup, Tapioca 414 

Rice, Boiled „ 414 

Sago Jelly 413 

Soft Toast 414 

Slippery Elm Tea 416 

Slippery Elm Bark Tea 413 

Tamarind Water 413 

Tapioca Jelly 413 

Tea, Beef 411 

Tea, Flax Seed 413 

Tea, Linseed 417 

Tea, Slippery Elm 412 

Tea, Slippery Elm Bark 418 

Toast, Water, or Crust Coffee 416 

Toast, Milk, Plain 417 

Toast, Egg 415 

Toast, Oyster 415 

Toast, Soft 414 

mnd or Mutton Broth „ 411 



FAQB. 

SoTJPS 21 

Asparagus, Cream of 27 

Bean (Dried) 29 

Beef 25 

Bisque, or Lobster 38 

Calf's Head or Mock Turtle 32 

Celery 35 

Chicken Cream 27 

Clam, Plain and French 39 

Consomme 27 

Corn 28 

Croutons for 37 

Dumpling. Egg, for 36 

Dumpling, Suet for 37 

Egg Balls for. 36 

Fish 38 

Force Meat Balls for 36 

Force Meat (Soyer's Recipe) 37 

Game 26 

Gumbo or Okra 33 

Herbs and Vegetables Used In . . . 23 

Julienne 26 

Lobster, or Bisque 38 

Maccaroni 33 

" Mullagatawney 31 

Mutton Broth (Scotch) 25 

Noodles for 36 

Onion 34 

Okra or Gumbo 33 

Ox Tail „ 28 

Oyster 38 

Pea 36 

Pea (Green) 29 

Pea, Split 29 

Pepper Pot (Philadelphia) 30 

Plain, Economical 27 

Potato (tish) 35 

Spinach, Cream of 27 

Squirrel 30 

Stock 24 

Stock Fish 38 

Stock, To Clarify 25 

Tapioca Cream 34 

Tomato 31 

Turtle, Mock 8> 



M£>EX. 



SoTTPS— ContifMt^ 

Turtle, Green .,„-..., 32 

Turtle, From Beans.. ,..., ...., 30 

Turkey ....« 33 

Veal (Excellent) 25 

Vegetable 34 

Vermicelli 35 

White (Swiss) 35 

Table Etiquette, Small Points On 421 

TOABT 246 

American 240 

Apple 250 

Cieese 247 

Chicken Hash with Rice 250 

Codflsh on (Cuban Style) 249 

Cream 246 

Eggs on 248 

Eggs Baked on 248 

Halibut on 249 

Ham 248 

Hashed Beef on 249 

Milk 246 

Minced Fowls on 248 

Mushrooms on 247 

Nuns' 246 

Oyster 247 

Eeed Birds on 248 

Tomato 248 

Veal Hash on 249 

Vegetables 169 

Asparagus. 187 

Beans 185 

Beets 186 

Cabbage 177 

Carrots 189 

Cauliflower 177 

Celery 185 

Corn, Oreen 183 

Com Pudding 183 

Corn Succotash 184 

Cucumbers 183 

Oymblings, or Squashes 188 

Egg Plant... 184 

F^diTe, Stewed..... 190 



Vegetables — ContvMud: 

Greens 189 

Mushrooms 190 

Okra 186 

Onions 176 

Oyster Plant or Salsify 18S 

Parsnips 180 

Peas, Green 187 

Potato Croquettes ., 174 

Potato Fillets 173 

Potato Puffs 171 

Potato Snow 172 

Potatoes, a la CrSme 171 

Potatoes, a la Delmonico 174 

Potatoes, Baked 175 

Potatoes, Browned — With Roast.. 175 

Potatoes, Browned 170 

Potatoes, Crisp 173 

Potatoes, Favorite, Warmed 173 

Potatoes, Fried, with Eggs 174 

Potatoes, Hasty Cooked 172 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise. 173 

Potatoes, Mashed. , 170 

Potatoes, Mashed, Warmed Over.. 170 

Potatoes, New, and Cream 171 

Potatoes, New, To Boil 169 

Potatoes, Raw, Fried 171 

Potatoes, Saratoga Chips 171 

Potatoes, Scalloped (Kentucky 

style) 172 

Potatoes, Steamed 172 

Potatoes, Sweet 175 

Pumpkin, Stewed 190 

Rice, To Boil 179 

Salsify or Oyster Plant 185 

Sour-Krout. 179 

Spinach 188 

Squashes, or Cymblings 188 

String Beans 185 

Succotash 184 

Tomatoes..... 18I 

Tomatoes, Raw, To Prepare 182 

Truffles 191 

Turnips 190 

Vegetable Hash 188 



BOOKS BY THOMAS W. KNOX 



WJio, as a Juvenile Writer, has held a prominent place among 
the very beat writers of boys' booles in the world 

BOYS' LIFE OF GENERAL GRANT 

Illustrated; large, square i2ino. Cloth binding. 420 pages. This 
account of our great General begins with the arrival of his ancestors on 
American soil ; follows him through his childhood ; his career at West 
Point, and active military career thereafter. It will give the boy reader a 
clear idea of the Mexican War, and quite a full account of the War of the 
Rebellion. The General's vos'asje around the world also enlivens the 
narrative. Told in the spirited and absorbing way that Mr. Knox has of 
writing for boy readers. 

THE LOST AKMY 

A story illustrative of the camp and military Site of the soldiers of the 
Federal Army in the Civil War. 

"It is a stirring, well-told narrative of patriotic adventure and service, 
and will kindle the love of Country and Humanity in the young reader." 

.....,,,.. . , — Congregationalist. 

It 13 lull of stirring incidents.-— 5a k Francisco Chronicle. 

Cloth bound, with emblematic cover design ; illustrated. 

CAPTAIN JOHN CRANE 

The hero of this book tells His adventures on the sea from iSoo to 1815 ■, 
his experiences with the pirates; the dangers of our ships during the 
trouble with France and Tripoli ; how British war ships overhauled our 
merchantmen ; their manner of searching for deserters, etc., etc. Sailors* 
superstitions are woven into tRe narrative in the most admirable manner. 
The story is historically correct and entertainingly related. Handsomely 
bound in cloth, stamped in two colors, 311 pages. 

A CLOSE SHAVE 

Or how Major Flagg won his bet, and ioumeyed around the world in 
seventy days. Modern aids to travel and communication ; valuable scien- 
tiiic discoveries and inventions brought to the reader-s attention in an 
attractive form. The routes, time-tables, monsoons, etc., described in 
**A Close Shave" may be relied upon as being absolutely correct. An 
excellent description of the country between New York and San Fran- 
cisco; a train robbei^ with one .of the notorious Jesse James gang as a 
leader ; an exciting experience with a school of whales ; a typhoon and 
the wreck ; the story about monsoons ; Chinese and Malay pirates ; a train 
accident in Egypt, etc., etc. Will prove exceedingly interesting to all boy 
readers. Cloth bound. Special cover design. Illustrated. 

THE TALKING HANDKERCHIEF 

Under this title, Colonel Knox, that inveterate globe-trotter and writer 
of stories for boys, has gathered a collection of absorbing tales of adven- 
ture in Russia, China, India, and elsewhere, which will prove of deep in- 
terest to both young and old. Cloth bound ; illustrated with over one hun- 
dred drawings by John Henderson Ganisey. i2mo. 

Pi'ice, $1.25 each. 

Any of the above Books sent postpaid upon receipt of price by 

THE SAALFIELD PDBLISBIKG COMPAHY, AKRON, OHIO. 



THE FAMOUS OTIS BOOKS FOE BOYS 



James Otis, the Popular Juvenile Writer, needs no introt'.'Mition 
to the hoys of to-da/y< 

TELEGRAPH TOM'S VENTURE 

A highly entertaining story of a boy who assisted a United States offi- 
cer of the law in working up a famous case. The narrative is both inter- 
esting and instructive in that it shows what a bright boy can accomplish 
when thrown upon his own resources. Throughout an intensely inter- 
esting and exciting story. 228 pages. 

MESSENGER NO. 48 

Relates the experiences of a faithful messenger boy in a large city, 
who, in answering a call was the means of ferreting out a band of crimi- 
nals ',vho tor years had baffled the police and detectives. The story tells of 
the many dangers and hardships these boys have to undergo ; the impor- 
tant services they often render by their clever movements ; and how by 
his fidelity to duty, Messenger Boy No. 48 rose to a most important position 
of trust and honor. It teaches boys that self-reliance, pluck, and the 
faithful performance of duties are the real secret of success. 241 pages. 

DOWN THE SLOPE 

The hero of this story is a boy, who, in order to assist his mother, 
works as "breaker" in a coal mine. The book tells how coal miners 
work : their social condition ; their hardships and privations ; and the 
older reader will get an excellent idea of the causes of labor troubles in this 
industry, and will become more sympathetic toward this qlass of people. 
The young readers will find in this book a high ideal of a boy's devotion 
to his mother, and will learn how mf.nly courage and a brave heart will 
overcome great difficulties, and lead to success and honor. 273 pages. 

TEDDY 

A captivating story of how Teddy, a village boy, helped to raise the 
mortgage on his mother's home, and the means he took for doing so. 
The obstacles his crabbed uncle placed in his way ; his connection with 
the fakirs at the county fair ; his successful cane and knife board ; his 
queer lot of friends and how they aided him ; and how he finally outwitted 
Ms enemies, are all set forth so clearly and attractively in this volume 
that we forget that the hero is not a real boy, and his trials and successes 
real occurrences. The characters are taken from life, Mr. Otis himself 
acting as " fakir " in order to become thoroughly acquainted with the sur- 
roundings. " Teddy " is sure to win a warm place in the hearts of all boy 
readers. 293 pages. 

All of the above are bound in cloth, have special cover designs in twr 
colors, with titles stamped in gold ; illustrated ; i2mo. 

Price, 75c. each. 
Any of the above Books sent postpaid upon receipt of price by 

THE SMLFIELD POBIISOING "COIPASY, 4KR0H, OHIO. 



YOTJNG PEOPLE'S LIBRARY 



A series of ten volumes, selected from the best works of the most 
popular authors. Bound in cloth with artistic cover designs stamped in 
Ihree colors. No two alike. i2mo. 

Price, 50c. each. 

Titles ; 

THE STORY OF ELECTEICITY FOE AMATEUES AND STUDENTS 

By James W. Steele. The greatest facts of the present civilization 
set fo'yi in a clear manner. Many illustrations and diagrams. 

THE AET OF GOOD HANNEES 

By Shirley Dare. I<essons in regard to etiquette taught -t)y this little 
book will be remembered long on account of the charming manner in 
which they are presenteci. 

SOME QUEEE AMERICANS 

A gossipy sketch of the queer characters to be found in the Blue Ridge, 
their costumes, manner of living, and speaking. 

MR. SWEET POTATOES 

A story of a Chinese Milkman. 

A NIGHT WITH PAUL BOYTON 

An interesting experience with this noted sailor on a Florida River, 
with descriptions of the quaint costumes worn on this excuision. 

MILTON'S MULBERRY TEEE 

Near the College at Cambridge, and the care it receives. Also five 
stories of Colonial life, " Murillo's Boy," etc. 

A QUEEE LETTEE-CAEEIER 

A Massachusetts letter-carrier whose route was between two forts 
during the Revolutionary War. 

IHE RAGAMUFFINS AND GENERAL WASHINGTON 

An attractive story for young patriots. 

BUSINESS OPENINGS FOR GIRLS 

By Sallie Joy White. A pure, earnest talk with girls. 

A BOY'S RACE WITH GENERAL GRANT 

A glowing description of a race on the plains of Turkey between Gen. 
Grant and the son of the American Consul. 

Anj of the above Books sent postpaid upon receipt 0/ price by 

THE 5&&LFIELD PUBLISHING COMPAM, AKRON, OHIO, 



THE BOYS' AND GIRLS' LIBRAaY 



A series of sixteen volumefs, by the world's foremost juvenile writers. 
Each volume bound in cloth, stamped in three bright colors, with the ex- 
ception of "Secrets of Success" (which is bound in cream pebble grain, 
otamped in green and silver). Special cover designs, no two alike. Pro 
fusely illustrated. 

Price, 25c. each. 

Titles : 

Joe, the Chimpanzee. An account of a lady's visit to the cage of 
the famous Chimpanzee of I^oudon. Also stories of foreign countries. 

David Bttshnell and His American Turtle. The first submarine 
boat used during the Revolutionary War. Dr. Franklin is one of the char- 
acters in this interesting book. 

A Child in Florence. Glowing descriptions of the beautiful paint- 
ings and sculpture in this City of Art. 

'Mandy's Quilting Party. How a little Vermont girl invited her 
friends to a quilting party without the consent of her mother. 

The Wonderful Cookie. A true story of a German King, and the 
Cookie which was baked especially for him. 

Aunt Polly Shedd's Brigade. A story of Colonial times. 

Shetland Ponies, with a description of the Shetland Isle, the home 
of the famous pets. 

Choosing Abe I^incoln Captain. An interesting account of how 
Abe's friends elected him Captain during the Black Hawk War. Also 
*' Sally's Seven League Shoes." 

Indian Children and Their Pets. 

Children of the Koppenberg. A new version of the famous old 
legend of the ** Pied Piper of Hamelin." 

Babouscka. A Russian Christmas Story. 

The Jewelled Tomb. The grandest sepulchre in the world, built 
by a King of India. 

A Hero. A tale of Revolutionary times. 

Secrets of Success — By Rev. Francis E. Clark, " Father of the 
Christian Endeavor." 

St. Botolph's Town. Many interesting facts of the ancient city 
which was our Boston of to-day. 

. A Hero in Peace and War. A character sketch of Israel Putnam 
and his bravery at Bunker Hill. Also " The Only Woman in the Town," 
a sweet old lady of Boston, magnanimous enough to entertain her enemies 
during a siege in Colonial times. 

Any of the above Books sent postpaid upon receipt of price by 

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY, AKRON, OHIO. 



JOHN L. STODDARD'S POPULAR PICTORIALS 

GLIMPSES OF THE WORLD 

takenfrn™ t'1,^5 ^"""f ^^ "''"" portraying scenes all over the world. 
Tohn It ^^ TT" 1°''""'"^ ^y '''^ celebrated traveler and lecturer 
John I, Stoddard, who has charmingly described each one. 550 pages' 

ably the finest work of the kind ever published. 

English Edition: 

Bticfcram, Chetnograph «g £,„ 

Buckram, Half-Tone 450 

Ftill Morocco, Half-Xone, Gold Stamped 7 .jo 

German Edition : ^ / o" 

Greea Silk Cloth Biadlag, Gold Stamped. -i.so 

Spanish Edition : 

Silk Cloth Binding, Gold Stamped 3.50 

Full Morocco, Gold Stamped y.'go 

FROM THE ATLANTIC TO THE PACIFIC 

A grand panorama of famous scenes and noted places on our own Con- 
tinent. Most interesting to the student of Art, Science, or I,iterature. 
Read this page of the world's history first ; be familiar with your own 
country. Cloth bound, extra quality enameled paper printed on one side 
of leaf only. Stamped in two colors. Price, $3.00. 

SUNNY LANDS OF TEE EASTERN CONTINENT 

A pictorial journey through the tropical countries of the Old World, 
containing the choicest views from Italy, Greece, Turkey, India, Syria' 
Palestine, China, Japan, Egypt, Africa, Australia, etc. People interested 
in missionary work should possess this volume. Handsomely bound in 
cloth ; 128 pages ; enameled paper ; special cover design in two colors. 
Price, $2. 00. 

FAMOUS PARKS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS OF AMERICA 

One hundred and twenty-eight full-page vfews of the marvelous works 
of Nature in the New World. To those who have seen these grand origi- 
nals, these pictures will prove charming souvenirs, and cannot fail to be 
interesting to all Americans. Bound in cloth. Only one side of page uti- 
lized. Enameled paper. Cover design stamped in two colors. Price, $s. 00. 

A TOUR THROUGH NORTHERN EUROPE 

A rare and elaborate collection of 128 views in the historic countries of 
Europe — a pictorial history of accomplished and fascinating races. A 
book of inestimable value when used in connection with the studies of 
History and Geography. Cloth bound. Stamped in two colors. Enam- 
eled paper. Price, $3.<>o. 

Any of tke above Books sent postpaid upon receipt of price by 

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY, AKRON, OHIO. 



NAPOLEON, THE WOELD'S GREATEST HERO 



NAPOLEON, LOVER AND HUSBAND 

By Frederic Masson, translated by J. M. Howell. If there is any 
figure in the world's history that the present age might suppose that it 
knew, Napoleon Bonaparte would be taken as preeminently the best 
known; and yet, the real Napoleon, the Lover and Husband, has been 
fairly left untouched until to-day. Frederic Masson reveals the lover side 
of Napoleon in the most fascinating manner, and shows that his greatest 
enterprises have been to a grave extent influenced or modified by femi- 
nine associations. Polished buckram ; gold side and back stamps ; gilt 
top ; 320 pages ; printed on fine paper. Price, $1.25, 

NAPOLEON'S MILITARY CAREER 

By Montgomery B. Gibbs. A gossipy, anecdotal account of Napoleon 

as his marshals and generals knew him on the battlefield and around the 
camp-fire. Reveals something new on every page concerning this son of 
a poor Corsican gentleman who "played in the world the parts of Alex- 
ander, Hannibal, Csesar, and Charlemagne." 

"The illustrations beginning with the famous ' snufF-box * portrait are 
capital, and the book is a dignified adjunct to modern study or a redoubt- 
able giant." — Chicago Herald. 

Crown 8vo., with 32 full-page illustrations. Nearly 600 pages. "Half green 
leather, gilt top and back ; English laid paper, uncut edges. Price, $1.95. 

NAPOLEON FROM CORSICA TO ST. HELENA 

By John I<. Stoddard. A pictorial work illustrating the remarkable 
career of the most famous military genius the world has ever known. It 
contains pictures of all of Napoleon's marshals and generals, his relatives, 
the famous places where Napoleon lived as Emperor, and the monuments 
erected to perpetuate his brilliant achievements on the battlefields of 
Europe. The pictures in themselves constitute a priceless collection, and 
the descriptions by John I^. Stoddard a truthful history of the great hero. 

De I^uxe edition, bound in cloth, gilt edges, 20 full-page colored plates 
prepared expressly in France, 11x14 inches. Price, $4.00, 

Plain edition, bound in green linen with Napoleonic coat-of-arms in 
silver embossed on cover. Price, $9.00. 

RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PRIVATE LIFE OF NAPOLEON 

By Constant. Premier Valet de Chambre ; translated by Walter Clark. 
Three superb volumes, cloth, handsomely stamped in gold. Although 
first pubhshed in 1830, it has just recently been translated into English. 
Notes have been added by the translator, greatly enhancing the interest of 
the original work of Constant. 

1 This man has been studied as a sol- 
dier, a statesman, an organizer, and a 
politician, but, although he was unde- 
niably great in all, men will always seek 
to know something about Napoleon as a 
man. These volumes will supply the 
desired information, for they are written 
by one who joined him in 1800, and w^as 
with him constantly until he laid down 
the sceptre fourteen years later. 

Price, $3*75' 

Any of the above Books sent postpaid upon receipt of price by 

THE S&ALFIBLD PUBLISHING COMPiNT, AKROH, OHIO 



Napoleon's 

Foibles, 

Peculiarities, 

Vices, 

Kindness of Heart, 

Vast Intellect, 

Knowledge of Men, 

Extraordinary Energy, and 

Public Spirit 
are depicted without reserve. 



KINGS OF THE PLATFORM and puLPIT 

By ELI PERKINS (Melville D. Landon) 

WHO has delivered thousands of humorous and philosophical lectures 
throughout the United States, and who numbers among his friends 
the most distinguished authors of our country. 

In « KINGS OF THE PI,ATFORM AND PUI,PIT » you will find biogra- 
phies, reminiscences, and lectures of our most popular humorists, 
divines, authors, journalists, evangelists, and orators of to-day. 

More comical anecdotes, queer epigrams, touching incidents, pathetic 
stories, merry wit, and sound advice is crowded into this one volume than 
the ordinary person will meet with in a lifetime. Aa only the best writ- 
ings have been selected, the book is a true index of the wondrous wealth 
of knowledge and humor manifested by prominent literary men of 
America, 

Some of the Contributors to 

"KINGS OF THE PLATFORM AND PULPIT:" 

David Harum, Artemus Ward, Josh Billings, 

Henry Ward Beecher, John B. Gough, George W. Peck, 

Robert J. Burdette, Bill Nye, Robert G. Ingersoll, 

Chauncey M. Dbpew, Dwight I,. Moody, Mrs. Partington, 
T. deWitt Talmage, Sam Jones, C. H. Spurgeon, 

Wendell Phillips, Archdeacon Farrar, Robert Collyer, 

Etc., etc., etc., etc. 
Many who have not the leisure or opportunity to hear our learned 
orators, humorists, etc., will find in this book, « KINGS OF THE PLAT- 
FORM AND PULPIT » a treasure indeed. No matter how far removed 
from the metropolis, you can bring into your home, through this book, the 
ennobling influences of the best, the grandest, the most successful men of 
the day. Hear what is said of it : 

PRES. WILLIAM McKINLBY : « I have read < Kings of the Platform 
and Pulpit ' with delight. It is full of amusement and instruction. I 
esteem it a valuable addition to my library." 

GROVER CLEVELAND ; '< I have put it in my library and read it with 
pleasure." 

T. deWitt Talmage : « The authors of ' Kings of the Platform and 
Pulpit > are the apostles of American wit and wisdom, and have a mission 
that they are grandly fulfilling." 

Chauncey M. Depew : « ' Kings of the Platform and Pulpit ' is a wonder- 
ful book. It is a whole library ; and people who cannot hear the great 
lectures can now read them just as delivered. '> 

John Wanamaker: « It is a valuable and entertaining book." 
A large, octevo volume, Sxio^, with nearly six hundred pages; 
printed on calendered paper; many full-page illustrations, and numerous 
half-tone portraits of the distinguished contributors ; bound as follows : 
Large Edition, with Marginal Drawings,— Small Edition,— 

Cloth, title In gold, $2.75 Cloth, title In gold, $1.50 

Half Morocco, " " 3.50 Half Morocco " " 2.00 

Pull Morocco, " gilt edges, s-oo Full Morocco, " gilt edges, 2.50 

Seni all charges prepaid upon receipt of price 

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING CO., Akron, 0. 



CHILDREN'S BIBLE STORIES 



By Josephine Pollard, one of the most charming and successful 
writers of children's books, whose songs are used in all our Sunday 
Schools. 
Titles: 

GOD MADE THE WOELD 

SUTH. A BIBLE HEROINE 

THE GOOD SAMARITAN 

THE BOYHOOD OF JESUS 

THE STORY OF JESUS TOLD IN PICTURES 

A series of five volumes comprising the sweet stories of God's Word 
told in simple language so the little ones themselves can read them and 
learn to prize them as the best of all books. They combine entertainment 
and moral instruction in the most fascinating manner, and will cultivate 
the child's taste for that which is beautiful and ennobling. To the young 
reader they make the Bible seem like a new book. Kach volume is com- 
plete ; is illustrated with scores of magnificent engravings ; is printed on 
fine paper in large clear type, having words of more than one syllable 
divided so they may be easily pronounced by children ; bound in cloth 
with embletnatic cover designs, attractively stamped in three bright colors- 
Price, 75c. each. 

YOUNG PEOPLE'S BIBLE STORIES 



By Josephine Pollaro. 
Titles: 

HISTORY OF THE OLD TESTAMENT 

HISTOEY OF THE NEW TESTAMENT 

BIBLE STORIES FOR CHILDREN 

SWEET STORY OF GOD 

A series of four volumes containing historic incidents from the Bible, 
They make a continuou-^ record of the Old and New Dispensations, omit- 
ting all that is too abstract for young readers. The boys and girls reading 
these volumes will not only obtain the religious truths they need, but wiU 
slso unconsciously derive invaluable lessons in the simplicity and power 
of their English mother-tongue. All are works of untold interest, and 
will prove a powerful influence for good in every home. Each volume 
contains a colored frontispiece, is profusely illustrated, printed in large, 
clear type on super-calendered paper, bound in cloth, with special cover 
designs in three brilliant colors, titles in gold. 

Price, $1.25 each. 



Any of the above Books sent postpaid upon receipt of price by 

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY, AKRON. OHIO. 



