Hilda's 
'Where  is  it"? 


LIBRARY 
ANNEX 


2 


OF     RECIPES. 


The  original  of  tliis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001699267 


HILDA'S 
WHERE     IS    IT?"    OF    RECIPES 


"HILDA'S  'W 

HERE   IS   IT 

looo  copits  prin 

ted  March,  1 89 1. 

lOOO 

June,   1891. 

lOOO 

September,    189 1. 

lOOO 

March,  1892. 

lOOO 

December,   1893. 

lOOO 

September,  1894. 

lOOO 

September,   1895. 

lOOO 

/»/)/,   1896. 

lOOO 

July,  1897. 

lOCXJ 

March,   1899. 

lOOO 

September,   1899. 

lOOO 

April,   1 90 1. 

ICXX3 

^/arcA,   I902. 

lOOO 

August,  1902. 

1000 

February,   1903. 

lOOO 

August,  1903, 

200O 

February,  1904. 

2000 

February,   1905. 

2O0O 

October,   1906. 

20OO 

>//,   1908. 

20OO 

March,  191 1. 

2OO0 

March,   1914, 

HILDA'S 

"WHERE    IS    IT? 

OF    RECIPES. 


CONTAINING,   AMONGST   OTHER  PRACTICAL  AND  TRIED  RECIPES, 
MANY   OLD 

CAPE,  INDIAN,  AND  MALAY  DISHES  AND  PRESERVES: 

ALSO 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  POLISHING  FURNITURE,  CLEANING  SILK,  etc. 

AND   A 

COLLECTION  OF  HOME  REMEDIES  IN  CASE  OF  SICKNESS. 


HILDAGONDA    J.     DUCKITT. 


TWENTY-SEVENTH   THOUSAND. 


LONDON:   CHAPMAN   &   HALL.   LD, 

All  rights  reserved. 


PRINTED  BY 

WILLIAM   CLOWES  AND  SONS,   LIMITED, 

LONDON  AND  BECCLES. 


To  C.  F.  FRERE 

THIS  LITTLE  BOOK   IS  LOVINGLY  DEDICATEDi 


H.   J.   D., 
Wvuierg,  Capi  of  Geed  ff»pe. 


INTRODUCTION. 


It  was  at  the  suggestion  of  some  friends  in  England — 
who  had  spent  a  few  years  at  the  Cape,  and  who  have 
ever  since  shown  a  kindly  interest  in  South  Africa — that 
I  collected  some  homely  and  old-fashioned  recipes  from 
relations  and  friends^  and  from  practical  housewives  some 
simple  and  dainty  dishes. 

I  trust  that  to  some  old  friends  in  England  my  little 
book  may  bring  back  recollections  of  days  spent  at  the 
Cape ;  and  to  my  country  cousins  and  far-off  friends  in 
South  Africa — who,  in  the  rush  of  life,  have  not  found 
leisure  to  copy  their  mothers'  and  grandmothers'  old  recipe- 
books — this  collection  may  prove  useful.  Few  Colonial 
cooks  of  the  present  day  understand  the  art  of  cooking; 
it  is  therefore  absolutely  necessary  for  the  lady  of  the 
house  to  know  something  about  it,  so  that  she  can  direct 
them.     Let  us  look  at  some  of  the  simplest  terms. 

Simmering  (to  bring  as  near  as  possible  to  boiling 
without  letting  it  boil)  is  one  of  the  great  difficulties. 
Cooks  will  not  remember  how  much  depends  on  slow 
cooking. 

Hashes,  Curries,  "Bredees,"  etc.,  etc.,  must  simmer. 
Fry  the  onion  with  the  meat,  a  light  brown  ("  smoor,"  as 


INTRODUCTION. 


Cape  cooks  say).  This  must  be  done  rather  quickly;  then 
the  meat  must  simmer  with  whatever  ingredient  you  like 
to  add. 

The  old  Cape  families  of  Dutch  descent,  who  had 
Malay  and  Indian  cooks,  and  many  of  French  descent, 
understood  the  art  of  ROASTING.  They  roast  their 
Chickens,  Partridges,  Quail,  Wild  Duck,  Venison,  etc., 
not  in  an  oven,  but  in  a  flat,  round  pot,  about  five  and  a 
half  inches  deep  (Dutch  baking-pot),  with  a  raised  lid. 
The  meat  is  put  into  the  pot  with,  say,  half  a  pint  of 
water,  and  the  pot  is  put  on  the  stove.  About  half  an 
hour  afterwards  some  live  coals  are  put  on  the  lid,  and 
just  before  the  joint  or  chicken  begins  to  brown  it  is  basted 
well  with  a  little  butter  or  dripping.  Half  an  hour  before 
serving  the  cook  should  pour  half  a  tumbler  of  red  wine, 
well  mixed  with  a  small  dessertspoonful  of  flour,  over  the 
joint  or  chicken,  while  giving  the  gravy  a  good  stir.  This 
gives  a  delicious  flavour  to  any  Poultry  or  Venison.  A 
leg  of  Mutton  done  in  a  Dutch  baking-pot  in  this  way  is 
very  good. 

In  Boiling  meat,  a  leg  of  Mutton,  or  Chicken,  etc., 
be  very  careful  that  the  water  boils  when  you  put  it  in,  and 
then  let  it  simmer.  The  meat  will  be  tender  ^.x\d.  juicy— - 
this  is  my  experience. 

Boil  all  green  Vegetables— viz..  Peas,  Cabbage,  Green 
Beans,  etc. — in  an  open  saucepan;  put  them  into  boiling 
water,  into  which  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
carbonate  of  soda  has  been  added.     This  is  the  American 


INTRODUCTION. 


mode  of  cooking  vegetables.  The  Peas,  Beans,  etc.,  will 
be  beautifully  green  and  delicate. 

Broiling  is  the  most  primitive  way  of  cooking,  and  it 
is  best  understood  by  our  country  folk.  It  is,  nevertheless, 
one  of  the  most  appetising  ways  of  cooking  a  Mutton 
Chop;  and  any  one  who  has  travelled  in  South  Africa 
will  remember  how  good  was  the  "  Sasatie "  (Kabob)  or 
tender  "  Carbonatje "  (Mutton  Chop),  steaming  hot  from 
the  gridiron  on  wood  coals,  or  two-pronged  fork  held 
against  the  coals.  Some  kinds  of  fish  broiled  are  very 
good,  such  as  the  Cape  "  Harder,"  "  Hottentot  Fish "  or 
"  Snoek." 

Stewing  is  a  very  easy  and  economical  way  of  cook- 
ing. First  stew  the  meat  and  Onions  together,  with  a  very 
little  water,  till  nice  and  tender  and  slightly  brown ;  then 
add  Cauliflower,  Green  Beans,  Potatoes,  or  any  vegetable 
you  like.  This  should  be  done  in  a  flat  pot,  not  a  deep 
saucepan.  Meat  and  vegetables  done  in  this  way  are  called 
by  the  Malay  cook  a  "Bredee."  Add  a  red  chilli  cut 
small,  or  a  few  pieces  of  it. 

In  Frying  Fish,  Cutlets,  etc.,  be  very  careful  that  the 
lard  or  clarified  dripping  in  which  you  do  it  is  boiling. 
Do  not  forget  to  dust  your  fish  with  flour,  and  dip  it  into 
an  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  before  putting  it  into  the 
fiying-pan. 

The  tail  of  the  native  Cape  sheep — which  is  composed 
entirely  of  fat,  and  often  weighs  five  or  six  pounds — when 
minced  and  melted  out,  supplies  the  Cape  housewife  with 


INTRODUCTION. 


a  very  good  substitute  for  lard ;  is  excellent  for  frying  fish 
or  Fritters  in ;  it  is  more  delicate  than  lard,  and  eaten  on 
hot  toast,  with  pepper  and  salt,  is  a  good  imitation  of 
marrow. 

Always  dry  any  pieces  of  stale  white  bread  you  have, 
cutting  off  the  crust ;  pound  in  a  mortar,  and  keep  in  a 
tin  closed  up,  ready  for  dusting  Rissoles  or  Cutlets  before 
frying. 

Preserves. — In  making  Marmalades  and  Jams  always 
oil  the  preserving-pan  with  the  best  Lucca  Oil,  to  prevent 
the  jam  from  burning.  If  dry  sugar  is  used  for  preserving, 
keep  the  pot  closed  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  stirring 
occasionally.  When  the  sugar  is  melted,  jams  should  boil 
briskly.  In  preserving  fruit,  such  as  Figs,  Citrons,  etc., 
boil  very  slowly — simmer,  in  fact. 

Under  the  head  of  "Invalid  Cookery"  will  be 
found  good  recipes  for  Beef  Tea,  etc.;  and  under 
"  Home  Remedies,"  some  homely  cures  for  Burns, 
Rheumatism,  etc. 

The  Recipes  that  follow  are  arranged  in  alphabetical 
order  according  to  the  class  of  dish  to  which  they 
belong.  For  instance,  for  Beef  Fritters,  look  under  the 
heading  of  "Fritters";  for  "Berg  River  Cake,"  see 
"  Cakes,"  etc. 

Great  care  should  be  taken  to  keep  all  kitchen  utensils 
scrupulously  clean.  Washing  soda  will  thoroughly  cleanse 
and  remove  any  taste  or  smell  adhering  to  saucepans  or 
pans  in  which  onions  or  cabbage  have  been  cooked.     One 


INTRODUCTION. 


ounce  of  washing  soda  and  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  will 
go  a  long  way. 

Brooke's  (Monkey  brand)  Soap  is  most  excellent  for 
scouring  the  inside  of  enamelled  saucepans,  and  for 
brightening  coppers  and  all  tin  things  used  in  a  kitchen  ; 
in  fact,  it  is  so  useful  that  one  wonders  how  one;  ever  got 
on  without  it.  It  cleans  marble  washstands,  mirrors, 
window-panes,  etc. 

In  cleaning  dishes  and  plates,  be  careful  first  to  wipe 
out  all  greasiness  with  a  piece  of  paper,  and  then  wash 
with  blue  mottled  soap  in  very  warm  water,  and  rinse 
off  in  clean  hot  water,  and  dry  and  brighten  with  a  nice 
clean  cloth. 

Cooks  should  be  very  careful  always  to  soak  all 
kitchen  cloths  over-night  in  washing  soda,  and  thoroughly 
rinse  next  morning  in  warm  water  and  soap. 

Wash  glass  in  cold  water  and  blue  mottled  soap,  and 
brighten  with  two  cloths;  if  turned  over  on  the  washing 
board  on  a  cloth  to  drain,  it  takes  much  less  time  to  brighten. 

A  few  blank  pages  have  been  left  at  the  end  of  each 
letter  of  the  alphabet,  in  which  the  owner  of  this  little 
"  Where  Is  It  ?  "  can  enter  any  new  recipes  she  or  he  may 
come  across,  and  think  worth  preserving. 

Farewell  1  and  "  smakelyk  eten  "  I 

H.  J.  D. 


PREFACE   TO   SECOND   EDITION. 


"  Hilda's  '  Where  is  it  ? '  or  Recipes  "  has  been 
received  in  so  friendly  and  kind  a  manner  by  the  press 
and  public,  both  in  the  South  African  Colonies  and  in 
England,  that  within  an  unexpectedly  short  time  a  second 
edition  is  called  for ;  and  I  gladly  seize  the  opportunity 
of  thanking  the  many  friends,  known  and  unknown,  who 
have  accorded  so  warm  a  greeting  to  the  little  Colonial 
recipe  book. 

In  this  new  edition  some  corrections  have  been  made, 
and  some  excellent  recipes  have  been  added. 

It  will  give  me  real  pleasure  to  receive  (through 
Messrs.  Juta  &  Co.,  Cape  Town)  any  suggestions  ol 
improvements,  or  any  original  recipes,  with  permission 
tc  add  hereafter  to  the  collection,  if  deemed  suitable. 

H.  J.  D. 


HILDA'S 
"WHERE    IS    IT?"    OF    RECIPES. 


A. 


ANCHOVIES  ON  TOAST. 

Toast  some  slices  of  bread  before  a  sharp  fire,  butter 
well,  and  cut  into  pieces  one  and  a  half  inches  square,  lay  on 
each  piece  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  &g^  and  a  boned  anchovy. 
Sprinkle  over  the  whole  chopped  parsley,  and  stand  it  for 
ten  minutes  in  the  oven.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  water- 
cress round. 


APPLES  (A  NICE  WAY  OF  COOKING). 

Wipe  the  apples,  but  do  not  peel  them,  core,  quarter, 
and  cut  into  slices.  Have  ready  some  syrup,  made  in  the 
proportions  of  a  pound  of  sugar  (or  three-quarters,  if  they 
are  very  sweet  apples)  to  a  pint  of  water,  boiled  quickly 
for  five  minutes — either  moist  or  crystallised  sugar.  Throw 
the  apples  into  the  boiling  syrup,  boil  rapidly  for  one  hour, 
reckoning  from  its  first  boiling  up — stir  frequently.  It 
should  then  be  clear,  and  jellied,  and  stiff.  The  rapid 
boiling  drives  off  the  watery  particles  in  steam.  Allow  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  half-a-dozen  apples.  Cloves,  cinnamon, 
or  lemon-peel,  may  be  added  to  tast^, 

3 
I 


A]  APPLE  CAKE-SWISS  APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 


APPLE  CAKE. 
(This  being  a  pudding  is  not  put  with  other  cakes,     Mrs.  Strachey's 

Recipe.) 
Ingredients. 
\\  lb.  Apples,  reeled  and  cored,  i  lb.  White  Sugar, 

cut  in  quarters.  4  pint  of  Water. 

Boil  the  syrup,  then  add  the  apples,  let  them  boil  till 
quite  soft  and  in  a  pulp.  Add  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon 
grated.  To  be  done  over  a  quick  fire — half  an  hour.  Put 
into  a  mould ;  serve  cold,  with  custard  or  cream. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 
(My  own  Recipe.) 
Ingredients. 
I  doe.  Apples,  i  tablespoonful  of  Butler. 

4  lb.  of  Sugar.  A  few  Cloves  or  Cinnamon, 

id.  loaf  of  White  Bread,  crumbled  A  wine-glass  of  Wine, 

very  fine. 

Butter  a  pie-dish,  place  in  it  alternately  a  layer  of 
bread-crumbs  (dotted  with  butter),  slightly  sprinkled  with 
spice,  and  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  and  then  one  of  apples. 
Fill  the  dish,  taking  care  to  have  a  layer  of  crumbs  at 
the  top,  pour  over  it  a  glass  of  wine.  Bake  a  nice  brown  ; 
will  take  one  and  a  half  hours.  (I  generally  have  a  tin 
cover  over  the  dish  for  the  first  half-hour  to  steam  it  a 
little.)     Turn  out  of  the  dish,  and  serve  hot. 

SWISS  APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 
Ingredients. 
TO  or  12  Apples.  J  lb.  Moist  Sugar. 

Bread  and  Butter.  a  Lemons. 

Take  the  crust  from  a  stale  loaf,  and  cut  slices  of  bread 
and  butter  from  the  crumb.  Butter  the  inside  of  a  pie-dish 
and  line  it  with  the  bread  and  butter,  then  add  a  layer  ot 
apples,  pared,  cored,  and  cut  in  slices ;  strew  over  them 
lemon-peel  cut  very  fine,  and  sugar ;  continue  adding 
apples,  lemon-peel,  and  sugar  until  the  dish  is  full.  Squeeze 
over  the  whole  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  cover  the  dish 
with  the  bread  crusts  and  peel  of  the  apples  to  prevent 
burning.  Bake  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven  ;  when  done  remove 
the  crusts  and  peels,  turn  out  in  a  dish  carefully.  Served 
with  thin  custard.     (5«c  CUSTARD.) 


APPLE  HEDGEHOG-APPLE  SHAPE.  [A 


APPLE  HEDGEHOG,  OR  ICED  APPLES. 

Ingredients. 

•  doz.  g[ood  Cooking  Applet.  The  rind  of  lialf  a  Lemon  minced  voy 

\  lb.  Sugar.  fine. 

I  pint  Water.  The  whites  of  2  Eggs. 

A  few  Sweet  Almonds.  3  tablespoons  of  Pounded  Sugar. 

Peel  and  core  a  dozen  of  the  apples  without  dividing-, 
then  stew  in  a  tin-lined  saucepan  with  half-pound  of  sugar 
and  pint  of  water,  and  when  tender  lift  them  carefully  on 
a  dish.  Have  ready  the  remainder  of  the  apples  cored 
and  sliced,  put  them  into  the  same  syrup  with  the  lemon- 
peel,  and  boil  gently  till  reduced  to  a  pulp ;  keep  stirring 
to  prevent  burning.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  some 
of  this  apple  marmalade,  then  a  layer  of  the  whole  apples, 
and  fill  up  the  cavities  with  the  marmalade,  then  another 
layer,  and  so  on,  forming  the  whole  in  a  raised  oval  shape. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  with  the 
pounded  sugar,  and  cover  the  apples  very  smoothly  all 
over  with  the  icing.  Blanch  and  cut  some  almonds  into 
four  or  five  strips,  stick  these  strips  in  upright  at  equal 
distances  over  the  icing  like  the  spines  of  a  hedgehog,  and 
place  the  dish  in  a  slow  oven  for  a  few  minutes  before 
serving. 

APPLE  SHAPE. 

Ingredients, 

I  tb.  Apples.  I  of  an  oz.  of  Gelatine. 

I  lb.  Sugar.  A  little  Lemon  or  Clove  seasoninf. 

Add  a  tea-cup  of  water  to  the  sugar,  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Cut  the  apples  neatly  into  quarters,  core  them,  stew 
in  the  syrup  till  quite  clear.  Take  out  the  apples  and  put 
them  neatly  in  a  buttered  mould,  soak  the  gelatine,  add 
to  the  syrup,  let  it  boil  a  little,  and  when  slightly  cooled 
pour  into  the  mould.  Turn  out  when  cold,  serve  with 
custard  or  whipped  cream.     Verj>  nice  indeed, 

9  8 
3 


Al    APPLES  (STEWED)— APRICOTS  (DRIED)— ASPIC, 


STK^rVED  APPLES  AND   CUSTARD. 

Ingredients. 

t  good-sized  Apples.  4  lb.  Sugar. 

4  Cloves.  The  rind  of  half  a  Lemon. 

I  pint  Water.  4  pint  Custard.     (See  CusTAlD.) 

t  doz.  Almonds. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  but  do  not  divide  them,  and, 
if  possible,  leave  on  the  stalks  ;  boil  the  sugar  and  water 
for  ten  minutes,  then  put  into  the  syrup  with  lemon-rind 
and  cloves,  simmer  gently  till  tender.  Do  not  let  them 
break.  Then  reduce  the  syrup  by  boiling  quickly,  let  it 
cool  a  little,  then  pour  over  the  apples.  Have  ready  half  a 
pint  of  thick  custard,  pour  round  ^^t.  apples.  Lastly,  stick 
into  the  apples  one  dozen  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  into 
strips.  Takes  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  to  stew.  This 
quantity  will  fill  a  large  glass  dish. 

APRICOTS,  DRIED  AND  SALTED. 
{Commonly  called  "  MebosJ') 
Take  soft  ripe  apricots,  lay  them  in  salt  water  (about 
two  ounces  of  salt  to  a  quart  bottle)  for  a  few  hours.  Then 
lay  them  on  a  mat  to  dry  in  the  sun ;  the  next  day  press 
them  between  the  hands  to  flatten,  and  to  let  the  stone 
come  out.  The  next  day  repeat  the  process.  At  the 
Cape  it  generally  dries  and  becomes  "  Mebos  "  in  three  or 
four  days  in  the  sun,  but  if  the  weather  should  be  damp, 
they  might  be  dried  in  heated  rooms,  or  a  cool  oven.  To 
crystallise  the  Mebos,  lay  them  in  lime  water  [see  Lime 
Water)  for  five  minutes,  till  they  feel  nice  and  tender, 
take  out,  wipe  dry  on  a  soft  cloth,  and  rub  coarse  crystallised 
white  sugar  well  into  each ;  take  one  and  a  half  pounds 
of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  Mebos.  Pack  closely  with  lots 
of  sugar  in  between,  in  jars  that  will  cork  well.  A  very 
nice  sweetmeat,  and  said  to  be  a  remedy  for  sea-sickness. 

APRICOTS. — See  also   Peaches  in  Brandy   and  Marmaladj 

(Apricot). 

ASPIC— See  Jelly. 


B. 

BARLEY  WATER.—See  Invalid  Cookery. 
BEEF. — See  Brine  and  Round  of  Beef  (Spiced),  p.  206. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Ingredients, 

lolb.  Round  of  Beef  (the  boae  A   teaspoon    of    Ginger,    Mace, 

taken  out)  Allspice,  Cloves,  and  Coriander 

2  teaspoons  of  Salt.  Seeds  (altogether), 

2  teaspoons  of  Fine  Pepper,  A  tablespoon  of  Vinegar. 

I  oz.  Fine  Saltpetre.  Strips  of  Fat  Bacon  for  larding. 

Tablespoon  of  Brown  Sugar. 

Hang  the  beef  till  quite  tender.  The  day  before  cook- 
ing, spread  over  it  a  mixture  of  the  above  spices,  moistened 
with  vinegar.  The  next  day  fill  the  hole  where  the  bone 
was  taken  out  with  a  highly  seasoned  stuffing  of  bread- 
crumbs, suet,  parsley,  thyme,  and  a  few  shreds  of  onion  ; 
skewer,  and  roll  a  good  shape ;  lard  with  strips  of  fat  bacon. 
Put  it  on  a  small  tripod  on  a  baking-dish  into  the  oven. 
Baste  the  meat  continually  with  a  little  lard  and  gravy. 
Half  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  done,  pour  over  it  half  a 
tumbler  of  red  wine  into  which  a  spoonful  of  flour  has  been 
stirred. 

This  is  excellent  cold,  and  takes  four  or  five  hours  to 
cook. 

ANOTHER  RECIPE  FOR  BEEF  A  LA  MODE, 
(A  nice  way  of  stewing  beef.     An  old  "  Constantia "  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

6  lb.  or  8  lb.  of  Round  of  Beef.  J  a  tumbler  of  Wine  and  Vinegar 

3  large  Onions.  or  Tomato  Sauce. 

8  or  10  Cloves,  Allspice,  Pepper.  h.few  Bay  Leaves  and  some  Carrots. 

Slightly  brown  the  onions  in  butter  or  dripping. 
Skewer  the  meat,  if  a  round  ;  but  it  may  be  anv  other 
part — ribs,  etc. 


B]    BEEF  FRITTERS— BEEF  STEAK  (BROILED). 


Lay  the  onions  on  the  top.  Put  it  in  a  Dutch  baking- 
pot  (see  p.  viii.)  with  spices,  vinegar,  etc.,  and  let  all  simmer 
for  two  hours,  basting  occasionally.  It  should  be  a  nice 
brown.  If  it  should  want  a  little  gravy,  add  some  stock 
and  half  a  cup  of  tomato  sauce. 

BEEF.— See  BRINE,  p.  15. 

BEEF  FRITTERS.— See  FRITTERS. 

BEEF  OLIVES. 

(Mrs.  Jackson's  Recipe.) 

Cut  rump  steaks  into  strips  three  or  four  inches  long, 

quarter  of  an  inch  thick.    Sprinkle  with  fine  bread-crumbs, 

pepper,  salt,  thyme;  roll  up,  tie  with  a  thread.     Fry  some 

onions  in  butter  or  fat ;  add  to  this  one  pint  of  water  and 

some  bay  leaves.     Stew  the  beef  gently  for  an  hour.    Just 

before  serving,  remove  the  thread  and  dredge  the  gravy 

with  some  brown  flour  to  thicken. 

BEEF  (SPICED). 
(Mrs.   Cloete's    Recipe.) 

Iftgredtents. 

IS  lb.  Centre  Ribs  of  Beef.  9  oz.  Saltpeti* 

Ji  lb  Salt.  2  oz.  Cloves. 

Jib.  Sugar.  a  oz.  Allspice. 

9  doz.  Coriander  Seeds. 

Bruise  these  spices.  Moisten  all  the  ingredients  with 
a  cup  of  vinegar;  rub  well  into  the  beef;  let  it  remain 
five  or  six  days  in  the  mixture.  Boil  gently  for  five  hours. 
Take  care  to  let  the  water  boil  when  you  put  in  the  meat. 

BEEF  (SPICED).— See  also  pp.  204  and  206. 
BEEF  STEAK  (BROILED). 
Take  a  nice  tender  steak,  about  one  and  a  half  or  two 
Inches  thick,  and  beat  with  a  wooden  kitchen  mallet,  to 
make  it  tender.  Heat  the  gridiron  on  wood  coals,  and 
rub  the  bars  with  fat  or  butter.  Sprinkle  the  steak  with 
pepper  and  salt;  turn  frequently.  Takes  about  ten 
minutes.  Serve  immediately  it  is  done — with  a  sauce 
made  with  some  ketchup,  or  tomato  sauce,  and  a  lump  of 
butter — very  hot. 

xo 


BEEF  STEAK  (STEWED)-BLANCMANGE.  [B 


BEEF  STEAK  {STEWED). 

Ingredients. 

•  lb.  of  Steak.  Tomato  Sauce. 

I  oz.  Butter.  Pepper,  Salt. 

I  Onion.  A  teaspoonful  of  Brown  Flour, 

Fry  the  steak  quickly  in  butter,  then  put  in  a  stewpan 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  onion,  and  all  the  above 
ingredients — a  little  cayenne.  Cover  the  pan  close,  having 
warmed  the  water  before  adding  the  meat  (and  the  onion 
to  be  browned  also  before  adding).  Stew  all  gently  for 
an  hour.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Enmtgh  for  six  people. 

BEEF  TEA.— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

"BILTONG." 
(An  old  Cape  way  of  curing  and  drying  meat.) 
Take  about  six  or  eight  pounds  of  beef,  cut  out  in  a 
long  tongue-shape,  out  of  the  hind  leg  of  an  ox,  from  the 
thigh-bone  down  to  the  knee-joint.  There  are  two  such 
pieces  in  each  leg,  being  quite  encased  in  a  fleecy  skin. 
Take  this  meat,  which  is  quite  free  from  sinew  or  fat,  first 
rub  it  with  a  little  salt,  and  an  hour  after  rub  in  well  half 
a  pound  of  salt,  ditto  brown  sugar,  and  an  ounce  of  salt- 
petre. Leave  for  three  days,  rubbing  and  turning  every 
day  ;  then  put  it  under  a  press  for  a  night.  Have  it  dried 
in  the  wind,  and  then  hung  in  the  chimney  till  it  is  dry 
and  pretty  firm.  When  eaten,  it  is  to  be  cut  into  very 
thin  slices — or  rasped.  Invalids  like  this  way  best ;  in 
fact,  with  bread  and  butter,  "  Biltong  "  is  most  appetising 
and  nourishing ;  and,  on  board  ship,  people  sufl'ering  from 
ntal  de  mer  have  relished  this  when  no  other  delicacy 
would  tempt  them  to  eat. 

BISCUITS.— See  Tea  Cakes. 
BLANCMANGE. 

Ingredients. 
I  oz.  Gelatine.  Juice  of  3  Lemons. 

Breakfast-cup  of  Milk  or  Cream.  3  good  tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 

Yolks  of  3  Eggs.  3  cups  of  Milk. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  milk.     Boil  the  rest  of 
the  milk ;  stir  in  the  yolks  carefully — the  gelatine,  lemon, 

ji 


BJ      "BLATJANC— BLOATER  TOAST— «  BOBOTEE." 


sugar.  Whisk  the  whites ;  stir  into  the  mixture  after  it 
has  boiled  once.  Remove  from  the  fire ;  put  into  a 
buttered  mould.  Make  over-night.  Enough  for  four  or 
five. 

"  BLATJANG* 
(Malay.    Appetising  condiment) 

Ingredients. 

A  handful  of  Red  Chillies,  a  Onions,  baked  in  oven  and  mashed 

ground  fine.  very  finely  in  a  mortar. 

40  Sweet  Almonds.  2  tiny  pieces  of  Garlic. 

A  tablespoon  of  Apricot  Jam.  2  Lemon  or  Bay  Leaves. 

(AH  mixed  up  together.) 
A  teaspoon  of  Salt.  2  tablespoons  of  Lemon  Juice. 

Mix  all  well  together.  This  condiment  should  be 
made  fresh  as  required. 

BLOATER  TOAST. 
Ingredients. 

1  teaspoonful  of  Bloater  Paste.       i  Tablespoonful  of  Cream,  or  Rich  Milk. 
I  teaspoonful  Anchovy  Sauce.         i  oz.  of  Butter. 
A  little  Cayenne. 

Put  these  ingredients  in  a  small  jam-pot.  Place  the 
pot  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water ;  stir  till  it  becomes  a 
thick  custard.     Spread  on  buttered  toast — crust  cut  oft". 

Sufficient  for  two, 

"BOBOTEE." 
(A  delicate  Indian  minced  curry.    Malay  or  Indian.    My  mother's 

Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

1  Onionf  "'■  ^  tablespoons  of  Curry  Powder. 

2  unions  A  dessertspoon  of  Sugar. 

A  large  slice  of  White  Bread.  Juice  of  a  Lemon,  or  I  tablo- 

7  cup  of  Milk.  „f  Vinegar. 

'  E£S=-  6  or  8  Almonds. 

Lump  of  Butter. 

Mince  the  meat,  soak  the  bread  in  milk,  and  squeeze 
out  dry.  Fry  the  onions  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  (drip- 
pmg  will  do).  Mix  all  the  ingredients— curry  powder,  sugar, 
salt,  vinegar,  etc.,  etc — with  the  fried  onion.     Now  mix  all 

13 


BRAWN— BREAKFAST  DISHES-BREAD  (BROWN).  [B 


with  the  meat  and  soaked  bread.  Mix  one  egg  with  the 
mixture,  whisk  the  other  with  some  milk,  and  pour  over 
the  whole,  after  being  put  into  a  buttered  pie-dish  or  into 
little  cups  (the  old  Indian  way),  with  a  lemon  or  bay  leaf 
stuck  into  each  little  cup.  Put  them  in  the  oven  to  bake, 
and  send  to  table  in  the  cups  or  pie-dish.  Serve  with 
rice.     (This  dish  is  equally  good  made  of  cold  mutton.) 

One  ounce  of  tamarinds  soaked  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  then  strained,  and  the  juice  used  for  Bobotee, 
Sasaties,  and  Curries  instead  of  vinegar,  gives  a  very 
pleasant  acid  flavour. 

BRAWN. 

Ingredients. 
2  Calves'  Feet  or  12  Trotters.  A  tablespoonful  Coriander  Seeds. 

J  bottle  of  Vinegar.  The  Spices  to  be  tied  up  in  a 

12  Allspice.  muslin  bag. 

About  24  Peppercorns.  3  or  4  Bay  Leaves. 

3  Red  Chillies. 

Boil  the  sheep's  feet  quite  tender,  and  when  cold  and 
firmly  jellied  remove  the  fat  and  bones.  Boil  with  the 
spices  and  vinegar  for  an  hour.  Little  pieces  of  sheep's 
tongue  may  be  cut  up  in  it.  Pour  into  moulds,  garnished 
with  eggs,  lemon,  and  parsley. 

BREAKFAST  DISHES. 

See  Brawn,  Croquettes,  Chicken  (Scalloped),  Eggs  (Curried),  Eggs 
(Poached),  Eggs  (Scratched),  Fried  Bread,  Fish,  Fritters  (Beef,  etc.), 
Ham  Toast,  Herrings,  Kegeree,  Kidneys,  Mushrooms,  Mutton 
Chops,  Omelets,  Oysters  (Scalloped),  Porridge,  Ragout,  Rissoles, 
Rolls,  Sausages,  Scones. 

BREAD  SAUCE.— See  SAUCE. 

BREAD  {BROWN). 

(Our  old  "  Groote  Post "  Recipe.     Cape.) 

Take  about  six  pounds  of  meal,  pour  into  it  three 

cups  of  home-made  yeast  {see  Yeast),  and  as  much  tepid 

water  as  will  make  it  the  consistency  of  dough.     Knead 

it  well  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  your  hand  comes  cle4n 

J3 


B]  "BREDEE"— "BOONTJES  BREDEE." 


out  of  the  dough.  Set  it  to  rise  in  the  pan  in  which  you 
have  mixed  it,  and  cover  it  up  well.  Put  in  the  warmest 
comer  of  the  kitchen.  It  will  be  ready  for  making  into 
loaves  in  two  hours,  and  will  then  have  a  rather  dis- 
agreeable odour  and  feel  quite  spongy.  Six  pounds  of 
meal  will  just  fill  an  ordinary  baking-pan  for  a  moderate- 
sized  stove  oven.  Keep  the  stove  well  heated,  and  when 
it  has  been  in  the  oven  for  an  hour  turn  the  baking- tin 
round.  Bread  made  in  this  way  is  generally  very  sweet 
and  wholesome.     {See  LOAF.) 


<' BREDEE?' 
(A  favourite  Cape  Stew.    Malay.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  thick  rib  of  mutton,  or  in  ordering 
four  pounds  of  cutlet  meat,  take  all  that  is  rejected  after 
carefully  cutting  and  paring  the  cutlets.  Take  this  meat, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  put  into  a  stewing-pot  with  two  onions 
cut  small.  Let  the  meat  and  onion  fry  to  a  nice  brown — 
dotit  burn,  A  rather  quick  fire  is  required  for  browning 
onions.  Take  one  dozen  or  more  large  tomatoes,  cut 
in  slices  or  pass  through  a  mincing  machine.  If  the 
tomatoes  are  not  quite  ripe  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
salt,  a  small  piece  of  red  chilli ;  let  the  tomato  and  meat 
stew  gently;  if  watery,  remove  the  lid  of  pot  till  there 
is  a  rich  thick  gravy.  Bredees  are  not  to  be  made  in 
deep  saucepans,  but  in  flat  pots,  as  they  would  be  too 
watery  in  the  former.  Meat  can  be  done  with  any 
vegetable  in  this  way.  Cauliflower,  potato,  vegetable 
marrow,  makes  good  Bredee,  {See  TOMATO  BREDEE, 
p.  244.) 

"BOONTJES  BREDEE' 
(Dry  Bean  Stew.     Cape  or  Malay.) 

Take  one  pound  of  ribs  of  mutton,  the  fat  part ;  set 
on  the  fire  with  a  small  onion  cut  in  rings  to  brown 
slightly ;  then  add  a  pint  of  water,  about  two  or  three 
cups  of  dry  beans.     If  the  beans  are  old.  parboil  them 

14 


BRINE-"  BliOOD   KLUITJES  "—BRUSHES.  [B 


for  half  an  hour ;  strain  through  a  cullender  and  add 
to  the  meat  Stew  till  nice  and  tender  for  an  hour  or  two. 
Add  a  red  chilli,  cut  up.  This  is  a  favourite  Cape  dish. 
Any  kind  of  dry  bean  done  in  this  way  is  very  nice. 

Six  or  eight  ripe  quinces,  peeled,  cored,  and  sliced, 
make  a  very  good  "  Bredee."  If  the  quinces  are  acid  and 
hard,  parboil  them  and  add  a  little  sugar. 

Parsnips  are  very  good  stewed  with  the  meat.  Dry 
beans,  parboiled  and  strained,  stewed  with  a  few  pounds 
of  ribs  of  mutton  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  is 
excellent 

BRINE  FOR   TONGUE  OR  BEEF. 

Ingredients. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  Salt.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Brown  Sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Saltpetre.  2  cups  of  Water. 

A  few  Bay  Leaves. 

Pour  over  a  tongue  or  lump  of  beef  after  having  been 
rough-salted. 

"BROOD  KLUITJES"  {BREAD  DUMPLINGS). 
(An  old-fashioned  Dutch  Recipe.) 

Soak  three  large  slices  of  stale  white  bread  in  broth  till 
quite  soft,  squeeze  out  well,  stir  into  a  saucepan  with'  a 
spoonful  of  butter.  When  well  mixed  let  it  cool,  add 
salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  finely-chopped  parsley ;  beat  up  two 
eggs  into  the  mixture.  Now  make  into  little  round  balls 
and  roll  in  flour,  add  this  to  a  stewed  chicken  or  in  good 
clear  soup ;  it  has  only  to  boil  up  once,  and  will  be  found 
light  and  nourishing.  They  are  good  to  eat  with  stewed 
chickens. 

BRUSHES  (FOR   WASHING). 

Brushes  should  be  washed  in  cold  water  and  soda  (to  a 
quart  of  water  a  teaspoonful  of  washing  soda) ;  never  left 
to  soak.  Shake  the  water  out  well,  and  dry  in  the  sun  or 
near  the  fire. 

15 


B]  BUNS— BUTTER  SCOTCH, 


BUNS.—See  Moss  Bolletjes. 


BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

Ingredients. 
\  lb.  Butter.  i  lb.  Sugar. 

\  a  tea-cup  of  Water. 

Boil  till  quite  thick.     Pour  on  to  a  buttered  dish,  and 
cut  into  squares. 


16 


c. 

CABBAGE.— See  Vegetable  (Savoury). 

CASHMERE  {TO  CLEAN  BLACK). 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  ammonia  in  half  a  gallon  of  water. 
Lay  the  cashmere  in  it  for  half  an  hour;  dip  up  and  down, 
rub  any  dirty  places  ,  hang  to  drain,  and  when  still  damp, 
iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

Milk  and  soot  rubbed  on  black  straw  hats  and  bonnets 
revives  them  wonderfully. 

CAKE  {ALMOND). 
(Mrs.  Versfeld's  old  Dutch  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  Almonds  blanched  and  pounded       la  Eggs. 

with  Rose  Water.  S  Tablespoonfuls  of  Finest  Pounded 

I  oz.  Bitter  Almonds.  Biscuit. 

1  lb.  Loaf  Sugar  (sifted), 

(500  Almonds  go  to  a  lb. ) 
Blanch  and  pound  the  almonds,  beat  up  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  mix  with  the  sugar;  then  add  alternately  the 
whites  and  almonds,  then  the  biscuit.  Bake  in  a  well- 
buttered  mould  for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven, 
with  a  buttered  paper  over  the  mould.     Very  good. 

CAKE  {BERG  RIVER). 
(Mrs.  Melck's  Recipe.) 

Ingrediend. 

>  Eggs.  25  Sweet  Almond! 

Their  weight  in  Sugar.  10  Bitter  Almonds. 

The  weight  of  3  Eggs  in  Flour.  Some  Citron  Preserve; 

I  Lemon. 

Whisk  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  the  whites  and  sugar  tO 
be  mixed  first,  then  the  yolks  and  other  ingredientSt 
Bake  in  buttered  mould  for  one  hour.     Good. 


C]    CAKE  (BIRTHDAY— BUTTERMILK— CHOCOLATE). 


CAKE  {.BIRTHDAY). 
(Mrs.  Andrews'  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  or  Finest  Flour.  \  lb.  Almonds  blauched  and  :ut 

I  lb.  Sugar.  small. 

I  lb.  Butter.  J  lb.  Candied  Preserve*. 

I  lb.  Currants.  7  Eggs. 

J  lb.  Chopped  Raisins.  1  Glass  of  Brandy. 

A  few  Cloves,  Cinnamon,  Nutmeg,  and  Ginger. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  mix  with  sugar,  then  eggs, 
yolks  first,  then  whites,  then  flour,  currants,  etc.  ;  mix  all 
very  well.  Bake  in  well-buttered  mould  for  two  hours, 
with  buttered  paper  over,  in  moderate  oven. 


CAKE  {BUTTERMILK). 
(A  cheap,  homely  Cake.) 

Ingredients. 

S  cups  Flour.  I  bottle  Buttermilk. 

2  cups  Sugar.  2  tablespoons  Cinnamon. 

1  Qup  Currants.  Some  "  Naartje  "  (Tangerine  Otange) 

I  tablespoon  Butter.  Peel. 

3  teaspoons  Carbonate  of  Soda.  Vanilla  Essence  may  be  used  instead. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar ;  then  mix  with  the  flour  the 
spices,  soda,  and  currants.  Stir  in  alternately  a  little  flour 
and  buttermilk.  Have  ready  buttered  moulds.  Bake  in  a 
moderately  quick  oven. 


CAKE  {CHOCOLATE). 

Ingredients. 
Whites  of  7  Eggs.  i  lb.  Sugar, 

i  lb.  Grated  Chocolate. 

Whisk  the  whites  stiffly,  mix  with  sugar  and  chocolate, 
first  roll  the  chocolate  and  sugar  together ;  drop  on  a  well- 
buttered  paper.  Let  it  stand  for  an  hour  to  dry  before 
putting  into  the  oven,  which  is  not  to  be  quite  so  warm. 
Bake  about  ten  minutes.  When  quite  cold  remove  from 
the  paper. 


CAKE  (COCOANUT— MRS.  FAURE'S— GENOA). 


CAKE  {COCOANUT). 
(Mrs.  Ried  of  Swellendam's  Recipe.) 

Insyedtenis. 

X  Large  or  s  Small  Cuooanuts.  i  lb.  Batior. 

X  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  |  lb.  Fluui'. 

6  Eggs. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  with  the  sugar;  add  the 
yolks  well  beaten,  then  the  whites  whisked  to  a  froth,  then 
the  flour.  When  ready  for  the  oven  stir  in  the  cocoanut. 
Bake  for  one  hour  and  a  half  with  paper  over  the  mould. 


CAKE  {MRS.  FAURES). 
(Dutch.) 

Ingredients, 

I  lb.  Flour.  4  Eggs. 

I  lb.  Sugar.  i  glass  of  Milk. 

i  lb.  Butter.  i  teaspoonful  Soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  Cream  of  Tartar. 
Any  flavouring  you  like ;  makes  an  excellent  cake  without  any. 

Stir  butter  to  a  cream,  mix  with  eggs  well  beaten, 
flour,  and  milk,  lastly  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar.  Bake 
one  hour  and  a  half  in  moderate  oven. 


CAKE  {GENOA). 

Ingredients. 
\  lb.  Batter.  lo  at.  Flour. 

8  oz.  Castor  Sugjar.  4  well-beaten  Eggs. 

\  lb.  Sultana  Raisins.  a  oz.  Almonds  blanched. 

2  OZ.  Mixed  PeeL  Grated  Rind  of  i  Lemon. 

2  teaspoons  of  Baking  Powder. 

Stir  the  butter  till  it  is  like  cream ;  mix  with  it  by 
degrees  the  eight  ounces  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  up  separately;  then  add  ten  ounces  of 
flour,  half  a  pound  of  raisins.  Have  ready  the  two  ounces 
of  almonds  blanched,  and  lastly  the  grated  rind  of  one 

as 


q  CAKE  (GEORGINA'S— GERMAN). 


lemon,  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  the 
mixed  candied  peel.  Butter  the  tin  and  line  it  with 
buttered  paper,  the  paper  to  project  half  an  inch  above 
the  rim  of  the  tin.  Pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a 
cool  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Sprinkle  a  few  cut-up 
almonds  over  the  top.     Verjf  good. 


CAKE  {GEORGINA'S). 
(Aunt  Fanny's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
t2  Eggs  and  tbeii  weight  in  Flour.       i  cup  of  Currants, 
t  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  30  Sweet  and  20  Bitter  Almonds  blanched 

\  lb.  Butter.  and  sliced. 

A  little  Citron  Preserve. 

Stir  ^he  butter  to  a  cream,  mix  with  loaf  sugar  ;  whisk 
whites  and  yolks  separately,  mix  yolks  with  sugar  and 
butter,  then  alternately  add  the  flour  and  whites,  and  lastly 
the  currants.  Bake  with  paper  over  the  buttered  mould 
for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove  the  paper  and  leave  for 
another  quarter  of  an  hour.     Very  good. 


CAKE  (GERMAN). 
(From  Mrs.  Van  der  Riet.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Flour.  \  teaspoon  of  Soda. 

1  lb.  White  Sugar.  4  Eggs. 

1  lb.  Butter.  50  Ahnonds. 

i  bottle  of  Milk.  i  tea-cup  of  Crystallised  Sugar 

I  teaspoon  of  Cream  of  Tartar.  and  Cinnamon. 

Mix  in  the  ordinary  way,  and  when  ready  for  the  oven 
have  ready  a  flat  baking-tin,  or  several  tin  plates  buttered. 
Pour  this  dough  into  it,  and  spread  thinly  over  the  surface. 
Have  ready  the  fifty  almonds,  roughly  pounded,  with  cup 
of  crystallised  sugar  and  tablespoon  of  cinnamon  ;  sprinkle 
thickly  over  the  cake.  Bake  in  moderately  quick  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.    Cut  into  squares  or  shapes. 

■4 


CAKE  (GOLDEN— KAYENNE— MADEIRA).  [C 


CAKE  {GOLDEN). 

Ingredients. 
\  lb.  of  Butter.  Yolks  of  6  Eggs, 

i}  lb.  White  Sugar.  White  of  i  Egg. 

3  cups  of  Flour.  Teaspoon  of  Cream  of  Tartar. 

\  cup  of  Milk.  \  teaspoon  of  Soda. 

Essence  of  Almonds,  20  drops. 

Stir  the  butter  to  a  cream,  mix  with  sugar ;  whisk  the 
eggs,  add  to  the  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  flour,  lastly 
the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar.  Put  into  a  buttered  mould 
dusted  with  fine  biscuit.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one 
and  a  half  hours. 

CAKES  {KAYENNE). 
(Colonial     Miss  Lizzie  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

2  lb.  Flour.  a  tablespoonfuls  of  Ground  Ginger. 

i^  lb.  very  dark  Brown  Sugar.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Cinnamon. 

2  cups  of  Kayennes  (that  is  the  dry  i  tablespoonful  of  Baking  Powder, 

scraps  of  any  minced  Sheep  Tail  or  2  teaspoons  of  Carbonate  of 

Fat  or  Suet  after  it  has  been  fried,  Soda  and  Cream  of  Tartar, 
and  the  boiling  fat  drained  from  it). 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  with  flour  and  sugar  dry,  then 
moisten  with  lukewarm  water  into  a  stiff  dough  ;  roll  out 
then  and  cut  into  small  cakes.  Bake  in  flat  tins  in  a 
quick  oven.  Another  recipe  omits  the  cinnamon  from 
ingredients,  but  adds  a  cup  of  buttermilk  or  thick  milk. 


CAKE  {MADEIRA). 

Ingredients. 
4  Eggs.  4  oz.  Butter. 

6  oz.  Loaf  Sugar,  i  Lemon. 

6  oz.  Flour,  \  teaspoon  of  Carbonate  of  Soda, 

Whisk  the  eggs  until  they  are  as  light  as  possible,  then 
add  by  degrees  the  following  ingredients :  six  ounces  of 
dry  pounded  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter,  dissolved,  but  not 
heated,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  six  ounces  of  flour. 
Beat  all  well  together;  just  before  putting  in  the  mould, 

as 


C]  CAKE   (NUT— PLUM— POUND). 

add  half  a  teaspoon  of  carbonate  of  soda  and  the  juice  of 
the  lemon.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that  the  butter  is 
perfectly  mixed,  and  no  appearance  of  it  remains.  Bake 
for  an  hour. 

CAKE  (NUT). 

Ingredients. 

10  Eggs.  \  lb.  White  Siiirar. 

J  lb.  Hazel  Nuts  or  Almonds.  a  tablespooniuls  tiaest  Bread-crumbs. 

Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

The  yolks  of  the  eggs  must  be  mixed  with  the  sugar. 
Stir  for  twenty  minutes  ;  add  the  nuts  or  almonds  (ground), 
bread-crumbs  or  finely  powdered  biscuit,  lastly  the  whites 
well  whisked,  and  baking  powder.     Bake  one  hour. 

CAKE  {PLUM). 
(Copied  from  Mrs.  Spence's  Recipe  Book.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Flour.  J  lb.  Candied  Peel. 

I  lb.  Butter.  a  oz.  Mixed  Spices — Cloves,  Cinna- 

1  lb.  Brown  Sugar.  raon,  Ginger,  Nutmeg,  Allspice. 

2  lb.  Currants.  8  Eggs. 

I  lb.  Raisins.  i  wineglass  of  Brandy. 

20  drops  Essence  of  Almonds. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  then  add  sugar  and  eggs, 
well  beaten  ;  then  spice  and  candied  fruit  and  brandy  ; 
adding  flour  last.  Beat  all  together  very  well,  and  at 
the  last  add  gradually  one  packet  of  baking  powder.  Put 
into  buttered  mould.     Bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 

CAKE  (POUND). 
(Mrs.  Daniel  Cloete's  Book.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  of  Flour.  4  Eggs. 

1  cup  of  Currants.  i  breakfast-cup  of  Milk. 

1  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  J  Nutmeg  (grated). 

4  lb.  Butter.  i  teaspoon  Baking  Powder. 

Some  Citron  Preserve  (cut  small). 

Mix   butter,  whipped   to  a  cream,   with   sugar;    then 
yolks,  then  flour,  etc. ;   lastly  whites,  whisked  to  a  stiff 
froth.    The  baking  powder  to  be  mixed  dry  with  the  flour. 
Bake  for  one  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven.     Good. 
a6 


CAKE  (POUND— PRUSSIAN— QUEEN).  [C 


CAKE  {POUND). 
(Old  Cape  Recipe.    Mrs.  Reitx.) 

Ingredients. 

13  Eggs.  Teaspoonful  of   mixed  Cinnamon ; 

lib.  Butter.  NaartjePeel{TangerineOrange), 

I  lb.  Sugar.  dried  and  powdered  ;  and  some 

lib.  Flour.  Nutmeg. 

Whisk  the  eggs  (whites  and  yolks)  separately.  Stir  the 
butter  to  a  cream ;  add  dry  sifted  sugar,  then  yolks,  well 
whisked,  then  flour  and  spices,  previously  well  mixed, 
and  lastly,  the  whites.  Have  a  well-buttered  mould, 
dusted  with  fine  biscuit  j  a  buttered  paper  on  the  top  of 
mould.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  two  hours. 


CAKE  {PRUSSIAN). 
(Berg  River  Recipe.) 

Ingredients, 

%  Eggs.  250  Sweet  Almonds, 

1  lb.  Flour.  20  Bitter  Almonds. 

I  lb.  White  Sugar.  Wineglass  of  Brandy. 

Whisk  the  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Blanch  and 
pound  the  almonds.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together ; 
then  the  whites ;  add  flour,  and  lastly,  almonds.  Bake 
one  hour  and  a  half.     Vety  good  cake. 


CAKE  {QUEEN). 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Butter.  10  Eggs. 

I  tablespoonful  Orange-flower  WatCT.  ij  lb.  of  Flour. 

I  lb.  White  Sugar.  4  lb-  Almonds. 

Beat  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  orange-flower  water ;  then 
the  sugar  (pounded),  the  eggs  beaten  very  light,  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  finest  flour.  Beat  all  well  together;  add 
half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds.  Butter  tins ;  line  with 
paper ;  put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  and  a  half  deep.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  one  hour. 

•7 


C]  CAKE  (SILVER— SODA— SPONGE). 


CAKE  {RICE).—See  ^. /y^ 
CAKE  {SILVER). 

Ingredients, 

2  cups  of  Flour.  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 

J  cup  of  Butter.  1  teaspoon  Cream  of  Taitar. 

ij  cup  of  Sugar.  I  teaspoon  Soda. 

i  cup  Milk.  20  drops  Essence  of  Almonds. 

Made  the  same  4s  Golden  Cake ;  can  be  made  at  the 
same  time. 


CAKE  (SODA). 
(Mrs.  Myburgh's  Recipe.] 

Ingredients, 

t  lb.  Flour.  Teaspoon  of  Soda. 

4  lb.  Sugar.  Teaspoon  of  Cream  of  Tartar. 

i  lb.  Butter.  Some   Lemon  Peel  (grated),  or 

3  Eggs.  Cinnamon. 

4  lb.  Curranti.  i  pint  of  Milk. 

First  rub  sugar  and  butter  well  together.  Mix  the 
soda,  etc.,  dry  with  the  flour  and  currants  ;  then  rub  that 
with  butter  and  sugar ;  lastly,  add  the  pint  of  milk.  Put 
into  the  oven  immediately,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  quarter; 
Very  good  and  cluap. 


CAKE  (SPONGE). 
(Mrs.  Van  der  ByL) 

Ingredients. 

'°  ^ge?- , .    ,  .    ^  The  Rind  of  a  Lemon  (grated) 

The  weight  of  9  egg«  m  Sugar.  and  the  Juice, 

i  lb.  of  Flour. 

Whisk  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Crush  the 
sugar ;  whisk  it  with  the  whites ;  then  add  the  flour  and 
lastly,  the  yolks.  Just  before  putting  in  the  oven,  add  the 
juice  of  the  lemon.  Put  into  a  well-buttered  mould,  dusted 
with  fine  biscuit.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  with  a  paper 
over  it.  This  makes  a  very  large  cake,  or  two  small  ones. 
28 


CAKE  (TIPSY)— CAKES— CHARLOTTE   RUSSE.        fC 


CAKE  {TIPSY). 

Ingredients. 

Six  Sponge  Biscuits.  ao  Almonds  (blanched), 

a  wineglasses  of  Vanderhum.  J  lb.  of  Apricot  Jam. 

I  pint  rich  Custard. 

Soak  the  sponge  biscuits  in  the  Vanderhum  {see 
Liqueur,  Vanderhum)  ;  garnish  them  all  over  with 
•almonds  cut  in  spikes  ;  arrange  them  in  a  pyramid  shape 
in  a  glass  dish,  with  some  marmalade,  or  any  preserve 
you  like,  between.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  pint  of  good 
custard.     {See  CuSTARD.)     A  nice  supper  dish. 

CAKES. 

See  Scones,  Tea  Cakes,  Veal  Cake,  Macaroons,  "  Obletjes," 
"Honing  Koek,"  "  Scraps," Apple  Cake,  Icing  for  Cakes, Tart  (Dutch 
Potato),  Tart  (Walnut),  and  Cake  (Rice),  p.  44. 

CAULIFLOWER.— See  Grated  Chebse  and  Cauliflower. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Ingredients. 

Some  Savoy  Biscuits.  Some  Vanilla. 

I  pint  of  good  Cream.  i  oz  of  Loaf  Sugar, 

I  oz.  of  Isinglass.  A  large  slice  of  Sponge  Cakk 

3  dessertspoonfuls  of  Vanderhum  or  s  Egg. 
Cura(oa. 

Take  as  many  Savoy  biscuits  as  will  line  the  inside 
of  your  mould,  which  must  be  buttered,  lightly  moistening 
the  edges  of  each  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  to 
make  them  hold  together,  and  place  them  upright  all 
round  the  sides  of  the  mould,  slightly  over  each  other, 
or  sufficiently  close  to  prevent  the  cream  from  escaping. 
At  the  bottom  of  the  mould  arrange  your  biscuits  in 
a  star  or  rosette,  taking  care  it  is  well  covered ;  then 
set  it  in  the  oven  to  dry.  Whisk  the  cream  with  the 
Vanderhum  {see  LIQUEUR,  Vanderhum),  isinglass  (dis- 
solved), and  loaf  sugar  to  taste.  When  sufficiently  firm 
fill  the  inside  of  the  Charlotte  Russe,  and  place  over  it  a 
slice  of  sponge  cake.  Set  it  in  a  cool  place  or  in  ice,  and 
when  cold  cover  it  with  cream ;  ornament  with  chocolates, 
"hundreds  and  thousands,"  crystallised  cherries,  etc 

29 


C]       CHEESECAKES  (ALMOND)— CHEESE-STRAWS. 


CHEESECAKES  {ALMOND). 

Ingredienti. 

\  lb.  of  Sweet  Almondi.  a  oz.  Butter. 

4  Bitter  Almonds.  The  Rind  of  half  a  Lemon. 

3  Eggs,  A  tablespoonful  of  Lemon  Juio& 

3  oz.  Sugar. 

Blanch  and  pound  the  almonds  smoothly  in  a  mortar 
with  a  little  rose-water.  Stir  the  sugar  and  the  yolks 
well,  warm  the  butter  slightly,  mix  with  the  sugar,  eggs, 
and  almonds,  then  the  juice  and  lemon-peel.  Stir  well. 
Line  some  patty  tins  with  puff  paste.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Enough  for  twelve  Cheesecakes. 
Very  good. 

CHEESECAKES  {ALMOND). 
(Another  Recipe.    An  English  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

J  lb.  Sweet  Almonds.  i  tablespoonful  of  Cream, 

6  Bitter  Almonds.  Whites  of  3  Eggs, 

i  lb.  I  ,oaf  Sugar.  Puff  Paste. 

Blanch  and  pound  the  sweet  and  bitter  almonds  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  water,  then  add  the  sugar,  the  cream,  and 
whites  of  eggs.  Mix  as  quickly  as  possible.  Put  into 
very  small  patty  pans  lined  with  puff  paste.  Bake  in 
a  warm  oven  for  twenty  minutes.      Very  good. 


CHEESE-STRA  WS. 
(Mrs.  Daniel  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Grate  two  ounces  of  Parmesan  or  Cheddar  cheese. 
Rub  two  ounces  of  butter  into  two  ounces  of  flour.  Add 
the  cheese,  some  cayenne,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  with  the 
yolk  of  an  ^%%,  roll  out,  and  cut  into  strips ;  egg  over. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  very  hot,  nicely  arranged 
criss-cross  on  a  dish.  Mustard  to  be  handed  round  with 
them.     Good, 

30 


CHEESE-STRAWS— CHICKEN   MOULD.  [C 

CHEESE-STRAWS  {ANOTHER  KIND). 
(An  old  tried  Recipe.) 

Ingre^ents. 
9  oz.  Flour.  a  <n.  Butter. 

3  oz.  fine  Bread-crumbs.  \  a  saltspoon  Cayenncb 

2  oz.  grated  Cheese.  }  a  saltspoon  Salt. 

Mix  all  well  together  in  a  paste,  and  roll  out  to 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness.  Cut  into  narrow  strips 
like  fingers  ;  lay  them  on  a  buttered  paper  or  pan.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.     Sufficient  for  eight  people. 

CHEESE.— See  Grated  Cheese  and  Cauliflower,  Pudding 
(Cheese),  and  SouFFxi  (Cheese). 

CHICKEN.— See  also  Fowl,  "  Gesmoorde  Hoender,"  Indian 
Pilau,  and  "  Heatherton." 

CHICKEN  BROTH— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

CHICKEN  CREAM.— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

CHICKEN  RiCHAUFF^. 
(Mrs.  Cloete's.) 

Take  the  remains  of  either  roast  or  boiled  fowl,  cut 
Into  joints.  Make  a  stock  of  the  bones.  Thicken  with 
a  little  maizena,  a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a 
pinch  of  sugar,  one  bay  leaf,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  tomato 
sauce.  Put  the  chicken  in,  stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 
Boil  some  rice  in  milk,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  make  a  border  round  the  dish,  placing  the  chicken  in 
the  centre. 

CHICKEN  MOULD. 
(Cold  Meat.) 

About  one  pound  of  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham,  pounded  together  in  a  mortar. 
Add  to  this  two  ounces  of  butter,  three  eggs,  well  beaten, 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Flavour  with  a  little 
cayenne,  some  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  all  well 
together.  Steam  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  oyster 
or  tomato  sauce.    For  luncheon. 


C]         CHICKEN  (SCOLLOPED)— CHILLI  VINEGAR. 


CHICKEN  {SCOLLOPED). 
(Mrs.  Dwyer's  Recipe.) 

Mince  some  chicken  with  some  lean  ham,  and  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream,  or  a  little  butter.  Put  into  scollop-shells,  cover 
with  fine  bread-crumbs ;  set  them  in  the  oven  to  brown, 
with  a  small  bit  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each, 

CHICKEN  {STEWED). 
(The  old  Cape  way.) 

Ingredients. 

t  young  Chlclcens.  A  few  Allspice,  Peppercorns,  and  » 

s  or  3  White  Onions.  tiny  bit  of  Mace  (tied  in  a  muslia 

I  tablespoonful  Butter  and  a  littl*  bag). 

clarified  Dripping.  I  tablespoonful  Tomato  Sauce, 

xj  pints  of  Water.  The  yolk  of  an  Egg. 

a  tablespoonfuls  of  Vermicelli.  Glass  of  White  Wine. 

Truss  the  chickens  and  stuff  them  with  fine  bread- 
crumbs, a  little  butter,  a  slice  of  white  onion,  flavoured 
with  a  little  pepper  and  sweet  herbs.  Press  down  the 
breast-bone,  put  a  skewer  through  the  wings,  in  which  put 
the  liver  and  gizzard,  and  tie  the  whole  together. 

Stew  the  chickens  in  a  flat  enamelled  stewing-pot,  with 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  the  butter,  dripping,  onions 
(cutting  two  incisions  on  the  top),  and  a  little  bag  of  spice. 
Turn  the  chickens  breast  downward,  let  them  simmer  for 
an  hour.  Now  remove  the  spices  and  add  vermicelli  and 
tomato  sauce.  Stew  for  half  an  hour,  and  just  before 
serving  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  whipped  with  the  wineglass 
cf  white  wine,  stirred  into  the  pot,  and  then  poured  over 
th  e  chickens.  Serve  hot.  Turkey  done  in  this  way  is  delicious. 
{See  "  Brood  Kluitjes  "  to  go  with  this.) 

CHILLI   VINEGAR. 

Take  green  chillies,  prick  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  put 
into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle ;  pour  on  them  some  vinegar 
in  which  a  few  small  onions,  bits  of  ginger,  and  coriander 
seeds  have  been  boiled.  Let  it  cool  before  putting  over 
the  chillies.  Cork  well  This  is  very  ^ood  with  cold  meat. 
3* 


"CHIPPOLATA*— CHUTNEY  (INDIAN).  [C 

"  CHIPPOLATA." 
(A  delicious  pudding.     Mrs.  Hiddingh's  Recipe.) 

Soak  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  little  water 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Make  a  custard  of  a  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Add  gelatine  before  adding  eggs 
and  sugar. 

Take  nine  sponge  biscuits  ;  slice  thinly ;  soak  in  half  a 
wineglass  of  Vanderhum,  or  the  syrup  in  which  peaches 
have  been  preserved.  Garnish  a  buttered  porcelain  mould 
with  little  bits  of  citron  preserve,  tomato  preserve,  or  Cape 
gooseberry  ;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  soaked  biscuits.  Have 
ready  any  kind  of  preserve,  such  as  yellow  peaches  (pre- 
served in  brandy),  water-melon,  or  ginger  (cut  small)  ;  put 
in  a  layer  of  preserve;  then  some  more  soaked  sponge 
biscuits;  pour  over  the  whole  the  custard  (which  must  be 
warm),  to  fill  the  mould,  and  let  it  stand  over-night.  If 
ice  is  handy,  this  pudding  is  greatly  improved  by  being 
iced. 

CHUTNEY. 
(Mrs.  Coleman's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
3  tablespoonfuls  Apricot  Jam.        2  dessertspoonfuls  of  Pounded  Gingor. 
I  dessertspoonful  of  Salt.  6  Sour  Apples. 

a  dessertspoonfuls  of  Cayenne.       2  Large  Onions. 

Boil  the  apples  and  onions,  then  mash  fine,  and  nrJx 
with  the  other  ingredients.     Put  in  bottles  and  cork. 

CHUTNEY  {ANOTHER),  INDIAN. 
(Mrs.  Lockhart's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Dried  Apples,  or  Apricots.  ilb.  Red  Chilliei. 

I  lb.  Raisins  (stoned).  i  lb.  Soft  Sugar. 

I  lb.  Onions.  2  o«-  Salt. 

1  lb.  Ginger.  4  °^-  Garlic. 

Mix  all  these  ingredients.  After  having  been  pounded 
in  a  stone  jar  with  four  quarts  of  vinegar,  set  it  in  the  sun 
for  a  week.  As  the  vinegar  gets  absorbed,  more  should 
be  adde^-    pottle  and  cork.  Kee/>  some  months  before  using. 

D 

33 


q  CHUTNEY  (INDIAN— APPLE— ANOTHER). 

CHUTNEY  {ANOTHER). 
(Aunt  Fanny's  Indian  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

« lb.  Quinces,  Apricots,  or  Apples.  i  lb.  Salt. 

\  lb.  Dried  Chillies.  i  lb.  Raisins. 

I  lb.  Sugar.  i  lb.  Garlic. 

J  lb.  Ginger.  4  quarts  Vinegar. 

Peel  and  cut  the  quinces,  apples,  or  apricots ;  boil  in 
three  bottles  of  vinegar  till  soft ;  mash  in  all  the  sugar  and 
other  ingredients  ;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  vinegar.  Cork. 
Will  keep  for  years,  and  improves  by  age. 


CHUTNEY  {APPLE). 
(Mrs.  Jackson's  Recipe.     Old  Indian.) 

Ingredients. 

«  soup  plates  of  Sour  Apples  (sliced).  i  large  breakfast-cup  of  Stoned 
J  lb.  Dried  Apricots,  soaked  in  i  quart  Raisins. 

of  Vinegar  till  solt.  1  lb.  Sugar. 

5  Large  Onions.  3  tablespoonfuls  Coriander  Seeds. 

I  Garlic.  ilb.  Salt. 

I  soup  plate  of  fresh  Red  Chillies.  }  lb.  Ginger. 
3  tablespoonfuls  Mustard  Seeds. 

All  these  ingredients  to  be  bruised  fine  (dry).  The 
garlic  and  onions  minced,  the  raisins  stoned.  The  other 
ingredients  to  be  well  mixed.  The  whole  to  be  boiled  in 
three  quarts  of  vinegar  till  it  looks  clear.  This  is  a  most 
delicious  Chutney. 

CHUTNEY  (ANOTHER). 
(From  a  Bengal  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

jj  !b.  Sugar.  J  lb.  Dried  Chillies. 

fib.  Salt.  I  lb.  Mustard  Seeds. 

I  lb.  Garlia  f  lb.  Stoned  Raisins. 

I  lb.  Onions.  30  large  unripe  Sour  Applet. 

I  lb.  Ginger.  a  quarts  of  Vinegar. 

The  sugar  made  into  syrup ;  the  garlic,  onions,  ginger 
finely  pounded;  mustard  seeds  dried;  apples  peeled, 
cored,  sliced,  and  boiled  in  half  the  vinegar.     When  the 


CHUTNEY-CLARET   CUP-COCOANUT   ICE.         [C 


apples  are  cold,  put  in  a  large  pan,  and  mix  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients  in  the  remainder  of  the  vinegar  (hot),  till  the 
whole  is  mixed.  Cork  well.  This  recipe  was  given  by  a 
native  to  an  English  lady  who  had  long  resided  in  India. 

CHUTNEY.— See  Quince  Sambau 

CLARET   CUP. 

(Mrs.  Fleming.) 

Ingredients. 

r  quart  of  Claret.  A  squeeze  of  Lemon  and  some  Pad. 

\  wineglass  of  Sherry  or  Vanderhum.        A  tableipoonful  of  Sugar. 
1  wineglass  of  Brandy.  A  little  Nutmeg. 

A  sprig  of  Borage  or  slice  of  Cucumber. 

Put  the  whole  into  a  jug  with  a  few  lumps  of  ice. 
When  wanted  add  a  bottle  of  soda  water. 

CLARET  STAINS  {TO  REMOVE). 

A  little  sherry  poured  over  any  red  wine  immediately 
after  it  is  spilt  will  neutralise  the  colour  of  the  stain,  and  it 
will  quickly  disappear  when  washed. 

COCOANUT  DROPS. 

(Swellendam  Recipe.) 

To  a  grated  cocoanut,  half  its  weight  in   sugar,  the 

white  of  one  &^'g  beaten  stiff".     Drop  small   pieces  on  a 

buttered    paper;    sift    sugar    over    them.      Bake    fifteen 

minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

COCOANUT  ICE, 

Take  an  ordinary  sized  cocoanut  (fresh),  grated  quite 
fine,  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff,  two  tablespoons  of 
sifted  loaf  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  rose-water.  Make  into 
sugar-loaf  shapes  ;  set  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  It  must 
not  be  brown,  but  crisp  and  white  outside,  soft  and  melting 

in  the  centre.     Very  good.     [5^^  ICE  (CocOANUT).] 

D  2 

3S 


C\         COCHINEAL  COLOURING— TO  COOL  WINE. 


COCHINEAL  COLOURING. 

Boil  fifteen  grains  of  cochineal  in  half  a  pint  of  water. 
Add  a  small  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  nut,  one  drachm  of 
cream  of  tartar,  a  few  lumps  of  sugar.  Boil  slowly  for  an 
hour ;  strain  and  bottle  for  use.  For  colouring  jellies  and 
blanc-mange. 

COFFEE  FOR  TRAVELLING  OR  PICNICS. 

Take  of  the  best  Java  coffee  one  pound,  have  it  roasted 
to  a  rich  dark  brown  in  an  American  coffee  roaster, 
at  home.  Grind  whilst  still  warm.  To  one  pound  of 
coffee  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chicory.  The  best  pot 
for  making  coffee  for  ordinary  use  is  the  common  block 
tin  coffee-pot,  with  a  bag  made  of  coarse  flannel,  the 
shape  of  a  jelly-bag.  Take  one  large  breakfast-cup  of 
ground  coffee,  pour  the  coffee  into  the  bag,  taking  care 
first  to  have  the  pot  warmed  ;  on  this  pour  three  cups  of 
boiling  water.  Keep  the  pot  on  the  stove  or  coals,  let  it 
drain  through  the  bag  twice,  then  put  into  bottles  and 
cork  immediately.  This  will  keep,  if  well  corked  and 
made  quickly,  for  a  fortnight,  and  is  most  excellent  for 
picnics,  when  one  tablespoon  added  to  a  cup  of  boiling 
milk  will  be  found  as  good  as  any  freshly-made  coffee. 
For  ordinary  use,  when  not  so  much  milk  would  be  used, 
add  four  cups  of  water  instead  of  three  to  a  breakfast- 
cap  of  ground  coffee  mixed  with  chicory. 

COLD  ME  A  T.—See  Note  at  end  of  C 


CONDIMENT. 

See  "  Blatjang,"  Pickle,  Chutney,  Cucumber  Sambal,  Quince  Sambal, 
Sauce  (Horseradish). 


TO  COOL  WINE,  ETC.,  WHERE  ICE  IS  NOT  TO  BE  HAD. 

Stand  your  decanter  or  bottles  in  a  current  of  air  with 
wet  cloths  round  them. 


CREAM  (APPLE— IN   MOULDS— CHOCOLATE).       [C 


CREAM  (APPLE). 
(Mrs.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingreditnts. 

IS  Apples.  I  lb.  Sagab 

a  Eggs. 

Boil  twelve  apples  very  soft,  mix  the  pulp  with  half  a 
pound  of  white  sugar ;  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  to  the  apples.  Beat  all  well  together,  heap  on  a 
glass  dish. 


CREAM  IN  MOULDS. 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  oz.  Isinglass.  s  tablespoonruls  of  Brand/. 

I  pint  Cream.  Sugar  to  taste. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  Strawberry  or  Apricot  Jam. 

Soak  the  ounce  of  isinglass  in  cold  water,  add  a  little 
boiling  milk,  stir  till  nearly  cold.  Then  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  jam  with  the  cream ;  add  to  the  isinglass, 
stirring  the  while  till  nice  and  smooth.  Add  brandy  and 
sugar.  Pour  into  a  porcelain  mould  and  turn  out  when 
cold  and  firm.     Very  good. 


CREAM  (CHOCOLATE). 

Ingredients. 

i  pint  of  Cream.  4  oz.  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

A  little  Milk.  i  oz.  Isinglass  dissolved  in  boiling  water 

3  oz.  Chocolate  dissolved  in  a  little    The  Juice  ol  half  a  Lemon, 
warm  water  or  milk. 

Whisk  up  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the 
sugar,  chocolate,  lemon  juice,  and  isinglass.  Mix  all  well 
together  and  pour  into  a  mould.  Let  it  stand  till  set. 
Dip  the  mould  in  hot  water  for  half  a  minute  before 
turning  out. 


q  CREAM  (ICED-COFFEE— DEVONSHIRE), 


CREAM  {CHOCOLATE),  ICED. 
(Miss  Bonnie  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

3  02.  Grated  Chocolate.  4  oz.  Sagar. 

1  pint  of  Milk.  3  Eggs, 

i  cup  of  Cream. 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  pint  of  milk  on  the  fire 
with  the  sugar,  then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well 
whisked.  Stir  as  you  would  a  custard,  and  when  cool  add 
the  cream  well  whipped.     Put  into  a  mould,  and  ice. 


CREAM  {COFFEE). 

Ingredients. 

\  pint  of  very  strong  Coffee.  i  pint  Milk. 

I  teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Essence.  Tablespoonful  of  rich  Cream, 

I  oz.  Nelson's  Gelatine.  3  oz.  Lump  Sugar. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  coffee.  When  nearly  dissolved 
place  it  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  with  the  milk,  cream, 
sugar,  and  vanilla  essence ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  almost 
boiling,  then  pour  into  a  wetted  mould.  Let  it  set  over- 
night. 


CREAM  {DEVONSHIRE). 

Strain  new  milk  from  the  cow  into  large  flat  pans,  or 
tins ;  let  it  stand  for  twenty-four  hours  in  winter,  twelve 
in  summer,  to  allow  the  cream  to  rise ;  then  place  the 
pans  on  a  hot  dresser,  or  gas  stove  not  too  hot;  let  it 
warm  gently  till  Just  on  the  point  of  boiling,  then  take  the 
pans  off  the  stove.  Set  it  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  skim 
the  cream.   Heap  it  on  a  dish,  and  serve. 


CREAM   (DUTCH— FRUIT— HONEYCOMB).  [C 


CREAM  {DUTCH). 
(Mrs.  Dwyer's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  pint  Milk.  i  Egg. 

I  gill  of  Cream.  i  glass  Brandy. 

4  oz.  Loaf  Sugar.  i  oz.  of  chopped  I.emon  or  Citron 

Jib.  Ground  Rice.  Preserve. 

The  Juice  of  an  Orange. 

Boil  milk,  sugar,  and  ground  rice  together  until  the 
rice  is  quite  soft ;  then  add  the  egg  (stirring  all  the  time), 
then  the  cream  and  other  ingredients.  Put  into  a  mould 
to  set.  Serve.  You  may  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  apricot 
marmalade  in  a  little  hot  water,  add  a  wineglass  of  brandy, 
and  serve  with  this  cream,  but  it  is  very  good  without. 

CREAM  {FRUIT). 
(In  a  mould.     Miss  Bonnie  Clo^te's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

J  packet  Gelatine,   well  soaked  in        i  pint  of  Cream. 

cold  water.  4  tablespoonfuls  Apricot  Jam,  or  any 

i  pint  of  Boiling  Milk.  fruit  jelly  you  like. 

Pour  the  milk  boiling  on  the  gelatine,  whisk  up  the 
cream  and  fruit  jelly,  add  the  milk  and  gelatine  ;  pour  into 
a  buttered  mould.  Turn  out  when  cold  in  a  glass  dish. 
Enough  for  eight  people. 

CREAM  {HONEYCOMB). 
(Mrs.  G.  Ebden's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  quart  of  Milk.  a  Eggs. 

I  oz.  White  Sugar.  }  oz.  Gelatine. 

I  teaspoon  Vanilla. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  (which  should  be  previously 
soaked)  over  the  fire,  with  the  milk  and  sugar ;  then  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  (previously  well  beaten),  and  boil 
the  whole  mixture  only  once.  Take  off  the  fire,  stir  in  the 
whites  (which  have  been  whisked  to  a  stiff  froth)  and  the 
essence  of  vanilla.  Put  into  a  mould,  and  turn  out  next 
day. 

39 


C]  CREAM   (ISINGLASS— ITALIAN— LEMON). 


CREAM    {ISINGLASS). 

(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients, 

I  oz.  Isinglass.  2  tablespoons  Brandy. 

I  pint  Cream.  2  tablespoons  of  Sugar. 

Some  Apricot  Jam. 

Soak  one  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  little  cold  water  ;  add 
a  cup  of  boiling  milk,  and  stir  till  cold.  Then  mix  four 
spoonfuls  of  jam  with  the  cream,  stirring  the  whole  until 
nice  and  smooth  j  then  add  the  sugar  and  brandy.     Good. 


CREAM  (ITALIAN). 
(From  a  Recipe  given  by  an  English  lady  who  had  lived  in  Italy.) 

Ingredients. 
I  cup  of  Cream.  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

Apricot  Jam.  White  (Castor)  Sugar. 

Whisk  the  cream  and  two  spoonfuls  of  apricot  jam 
well ;  strain  through  a  milk  sieve.  Whisk  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  with  the  cream  ;  and  lastly, 
stir  in  one  or  two  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  according  to  taste. 
Will  fill  half-a-dozen  or  more  glasses.  Is  most  delicious, 
and  not  too  rich. 

CREAM  {LEMON). 

Ingredients. 

1  quart  Cream.  la  oz.  Loaf  Sugar. 

2  large  Lemons.  i^  oz.  Isinglass. 

A  pinch  of  Salt. 

Infuse  into  a  pint  of  the  cream  the  thin  rind  of  the 
two  lemons. 

Dissolve  the  isinglass,  or  soak  it  in  a  little  cold 
milk;  add  the  sugar;  then  put  the  saucepan  on  the 
fire ;  do  not  let  it  boil,  but  keep  near  simmering  till  the 
sugar  and  isinglass  are  quite  dissolved,  then  stir  in  the 
other  pint  of  cream.  Strain  the  mixture  in  a  basin 
through  a  milk  sieve.  When  nearly  cold,  stir  in  the  juice 
of  two  lemons.  Pour  into  an  oiled  or  buttered  mould,  and 
leave  in  a  cool  place  to  set  before  turning  out. 


CREAM  ("LEMON   SOLID"— ORANGE— STONE).      [C 

CREAM  a*  LEMON  SOLW^ 
(A  similar  Recipe.) 

Ingrtdients. 

I  quart  New  Milk.  i  oz.  Gelatine. 

I  lb.  Sugar,  a  or  3  Lemons. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  some  of  the  milk  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  ;  add  to  it  the  sugar  and  rind  of  lemon  cut  very 
thin  ;  put  the  whole  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  stir  in  the  remainder  of  the  cold  milk. 
When  nearly  cold,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  the  lemons.  It 
is  better  made  the  day  before,  and  put  into  a  wetted  or 
oiled  mould  till  cold. 

CREAM  {ORANGE). 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  quart  Milk.  Rind  of  2  OrangCL 

3  Eggs.  I  oz.  Gelatine. 

4  oz.  Sugar.  Juice  of  i  Lemon. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk  and  eggs,  stir  till  it 
thickens.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  warm  water 
(previously  soaked  in  cold),  add  to  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
then  stir  it  in  the  custard ;  put  into  a  buttered  mould,  and 
set  to  ice. 

CREAM  (STONE). 

Ingredients. 

Marmalade,  Jam,  or  i  oz.  Loaf  Sugar. 

Preserve.  1  pint  of  Cream. 

\  oz.  Gelatine.  i  wineglass  of  Slierrjr. 

Milk  may  be  substituted  for  cream,  but,  if  so,  an  egg  and  teaspoonful  of  butter 

should  be  added. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish  with  a  thin  layer  of 
marmalade  (or  jam).  Stir  into  the  pint  of  cream  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  previously  dissolved,  and  one  ounce 
of  loaf  sugar ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  stir  all  the  time. 
Strain,  and  when  cooled  add  a  wineglass  of  sherry,  then 
pour  over  the  preserve.     If  milk  is  used  instead  of  cream 

41 


CI         CREAM  (STRAWBERRY)— CREEF  (POTTED). 


add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  when  boiled  whisk  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  into  the  mixture,  and  white,  well  whisked, 
when  taken  off  the  fire ;  then  pour  it  over  the  marmalade. 


CREAM  {STRAWBERRY). 

Ingredients. 

a  lb.  ripe  Strawberries.  12  ot.  of  Sugar. 

I  quart  of  Cream  or  Milk.  i  az.  Isinglass. 

Pour  the  cream  or  milk  into  a  stew-pan,  add  sugar 
and  isinglass  to  dissolve,  not  allowing  the  mixture  to 
boil ;  then  strain  into  a  basin  and  stir  until  nearly  cold. 
Add  the  fruit,  which  has  been  previously  passed  through 
a  hair  sieve,  oil  the  mould,  and  pour  in  the  cream.  Allow 
it  to  stand  until  it  is  quite  firm. 


CREAM  (SIVISS). 
(Mrs.  D.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

iHgredienis. 

1  quart  of  Cream  or  Milk.  8  teaspoonfuls  of  Maiien^ 
12  oz.  of  Sugar.  ^  lb.  Macaroons. 

2  Lemons.  A  small  stick  of  Cinnamon. 

Set  the  cream,  or  rich  milk,  on  the  fire  (keeping  a 
little  to  moisten  the  maizena),  add  sugar,  and  cinnamon, 
and  maizena ;  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  into 
a  basin;  when  nearly  cold,  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons. 
Take  half  the  macaroons  and  cover  the  bottom  of  a  glass 
dish,  pour  over  the  cream ;  another  layer  of  macaroons, 
and  another  of  cream,  and  so  on.  This  pudding  should 
be  made  the  day  before. 

CREEF  {POTTED). 
(Cape  Crawfish.) 

Boil  the  creef,  mince  in  the  sausage  machine,  adding 
all  the  red  meat.  For  one  pound  of  minced  creef,  two 
blades  of  mace,  one  teaspoon  black  pepper,  half  a  teaspoon- 

42 


CROQUETTES  OF  CHICKEN— FISH— RICE.  [C 


ful  of  salt,  some  cayenne,  three  ounces  butter,  one  ounce 
sheep  tail  fat.  Mix  the  spices  with  the  crawfish  ;  work 
all  well  together.  Bake  the  whole  in  a  pie-dish  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  nearly  brown.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

CROQUETTES  OF    CHICKEN. 
(Mrs.  Dwyer's  Recipe.) 

Ingtedients. 

I  lb.  cooked  Chicken.  i  blade  of  Mace, 

i  lb.  of  mixed  Mushrooms.  3  ^ggs- 

Truffles  and  Ham  (or  Ton^e).  Bread-crumbs. 

A'lictle  Pepper.  Some  rich  Stock, 

Mince  fine  about  one  pound  of  cooked  chicken  with 
mushroom,  tongue  (or  ham),  and  truffles;  season  with  the 
spices.  Have  some  rich  stock  reduced  by  boiling  till 
quite  thick,  stir  well  together.  Spread  it  on  a  dish  an 
inch  thick,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  set  it  to  cool. 
Divide  into  nice  little  balls,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  bread- 
crumbs, and  fry  a  light  brown. 

CROQUETTES  OF  FISH. 

Take  any  cold  boiled  fish,  pound  it  well,  season  with 
salt  and  cayenne.  Put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan, 
add  two  ounces  flour,  one  gill  of  milk,  stir  over  the  fire 
till  it  thickens,  and  boils,  and  is  smooth;  add  to  it  one 
pound  of  the  cold  fish,  one  teaspoonful  of  Anchovy  or 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Stir  all  together,  and  turn  all  into  a 
plate  to  cool.  When  cool  make  into  shapes,  dip  into  egg, 
and  roll  in  bread-crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat,  and  serve  with 
fried  parsley. 

CROQUETTES  OF  RICE. 

Ingredients, 
7  oz.  of  Rice.  Rind  of  a  Lemoc 

I  quart  of  Milk.  5  °^-  Sugar. 

A  few  bitter  Almonds. 

Boil  all  this  well  together ;  when  cold  form  into  balls. 
Scoop  out  and  put  apricot  jam  in  the  centre,  roll  in  egg, 
and  dust  with  powdered  biscuit.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

43 


C]  CAKE  (RICE)— CURRY  OF  COLD   MEAT. 

CAKE  {RICE). 

Ingredients, 

\  lb.  of  Butter,  whipped  to  Cream.  )  lb.  of  ground  Rice. 

1  lb.  of  Loaf  Sugar.  *  lb.  of  Flour. 

7  Eggs — whites  of  4.  Essence  of  Lemon. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  butter,  then  the  yolks,  then  rice 
and  flour,  lastly  whites  and  flavouring.  Bake  an  hour  and 
a  half  with  buttered  paper  over  mould. 

CRUST.— See  Pie  Crust,  Puff  Paste,  Pastry. 

CUCUMBER  {SAVOURY). 

Pare  and  scoop  out  the  seeds  of  a  moderate  sized 
cucumber.  Grate  one  tablespoonful  of  cheese,  one  of 
bread-crumbs,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  chives,  pepper,  salt, 
butter.  Stuff  cucumber  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  half  an 
hour.  Have  sauce  made  thus:  one  tablespoonful  of  cheese, 
teaspoonful  flour,  teaspoonful  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
mustard,  little  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  in  the  saucepan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  milk;  stir  till  thick.  Pour  this  over 
cucumber,  cover  with  bread-crumbs  brown,  and  serve. 

CURRY  OF  COLD  MEAT. 
(My  Recipe.) 

Take  one  large  onion,  cut  small,  fry  a  nice  brown ;  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  or  dripping  mixed,  two  green 
apples  or  a  large  quince  (if  not  at  hand,  take  two  or  three 
tomatoes),  cut  in  slices  ;  simmer  with  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  curry  powder  and  the  fried  onion,  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  or  lemon,  a  dessertspoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
stock,  and  a  Httle  milk.  Cut  up  some  cold  meat  in  nice 
little  pieces,  lay  in  this  mixture,  and  simmer  for  an  hour  or 
more  till  the  meat  is  thoroughly  flavoured  with  the  curry 
paste.  Serve  with  hot  boiled  rice.  Any  cold  boiled  or 
roast  meat  will  do. 

N.B. — Half  an  ounce  of  tamarinds,  soaked  in  boiling 
water  and  strained,  gives  a  delicious  acid  flavour  to  curry, 
and  may  always  be  substituted  for  vinegar. 

44 


CURRY   (CHICKEN— CUCUMBER).  [C 


CURRY  {CHICKEN). 
(Our  Cape  way.) 

Ingredients. 

I  Fowl.  3  tablespoons  of  Vinegar  or  a  sour  Applet, 

ij  tablespoons  of  Curry  Powder.  i  oz.  Butter. 

X  teaspoon  of  Sugar.  3  Onions  sliced  and  browned  in  butter  or 

\  teaspoon  of  Salt.  fat. 

The  fowl  must  not  be  more  than  twelve  months  old, 
and  must  be  killed  the  day  before  cooking.  Cut  it  into 
small  joints.  Mix  the  onions  with  the  curry  powder, 
vinegar,  salt,  sugar,  and  butter,  into  a  paste  ;  lay  on  the 
chicken.  Cover  the  pot  and  let  it  simmer,  or  stew  gently, 
for  an  hour,  then  stir  well.  If  dry  add  a  little  water.  A 
tablespoon  of  tomato  sauce  or  lemon  in  half  a  cup  of  milk, 
stirred  in  shortly  before  serving,  is  an  improvement,  but  it 
will  be  found  excellent  without.  Serve  with  boiled  rice. 
Sufficient  as  an  entriefor  six  or  eight  people. 

Some  people  fry  the  meat  and  onion  together  till 
brown  ;  but  from  experience  I  find  it  best  to  do  the  onions 
first,  and  then  let  all  steam  with  the  chicken. 


CURRY  {CUCUMBER). 
(A  Cape  Dish.) 

Take  four  large  cucumbers  that  are  turning  yellow ; 
peel  carefully  (be  particular  that  no  bitter  be  left),  take 
out  the  seeds,  cut  in  halves,  or  if  large  in  three  pieces,  stuff 
with  forcemeat,  made  as  follows :  one  pound  of  mutton 
(fresh  or  cold)  minced,  one  slice  of  bread  soaked  in  milk, 
one  ^^g,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  dessertspoonful  of 
curry  powder.  Mix  well  together,  stuff  the  cucumber  with 
this.  Then  take  two  large  onions,  fry  a  nice  brown  ;  make 
a  paste  of  curry  powder  one  ounce,  one  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  a  cup  of  stock,  a  good 
tablespoonful  of  dripping  (butter  is  better) ;  simmer  in  a  flat 
stewing-pot.  Arrange  the  stuffed  cucumber  in  this,  and 
let  it  simmer  on  a  moderate  heat  for  two  hours.  Serve 
with  boiled  rice,    (This  is  a  very  nic?  mtr^f  or  lunch  dish.) 

45 


C]  CURRY  (GOOD  MUTTON— VEGETABLE). 


CURRY  (A   GOOD  MUTTON). 

Ingredients. 

1  lb.  of  Mutton  (a  lb.  of  thick  rib  make    i  teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

a  nice  dish).  i  tablespoonful  of  Vinegar. 

2  Large  Onions.  i  tablespoonful  of  good  Curry  Powder 
2  sour  Apples  or  Tomatoei.  (if  not  sure  of  the  Curry  Powder  add  a 
2  teaspoonfuis  of  Sugar.  teaspoonful  of  Indian  Currie  Paste). 

Cut  the  mutton  in  nice  little  pieces.  Fry  the  mutton 
and  onion  a  nice  brown,  cut  the  apple  or  tomato  in  slices, 
mix  with  curry  powder  and  other  ingredients ;  stir  all  well 
together.  If  the  meat  is  lean  a  small  piece  of  butter  is  an 
improvement.  Simmer  for  two  hours  gently.  Serve  with 
boiled  rice.  Cold  meat  cut  in  slices,  and  simmered  in  this 
mixture  of  curry,  etc.,  for  two  hours,  does  very  well. 


CURRY  {ANOTHER  MUTTON). 
(This  was  taught  me  by  an  Indian  Cook.) 

Take  three  pounds  of  mutton  out  of  the  leg  ;  cut  into 
small,  square  pieces,  and  put  into  the  pot.  Slice  up  a 
large  onion  thinly  ;  put  that  on  the  top  of  the  meat.  Now 
make  a  paste  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  one 
tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 
If  apples  are  in  season,  slice  up  two  or  three  and  add  to  it. 
Stir  all  together,  and  put  this  on  the  top  of  the  sliced 
onions.  Shut  up  the  pot ;  let  it  simmer  gently.  No  water 
to  be  added.  After  an  hour,  stir  all  well  together.  Let  it 
simmer  gently  another  hour.  Just  before'  serving,  if  it 
should  be  dry,  add  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  tomato  sauce.     Serve  with  rice. 


CURRY  {VEGETABLE). 

Chop  four  onions  and  four  apples,  put  them  in  a  pan 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  let  them  fry  a  light 
brown ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  a  little  stock, 
and  some  salt. 


CURRY— CUCUMBER  "  SAMBAL  "—CUSTARD.         [C 

Parboil  six  large  potatoes  whole  ;  cut  them  up,  and  put 
them  with  other  ingredients.  Let  all  stew  gently  for  an 
hour.  Cover  the  pot  Vegetable  marrow  makes  a  very 
nice  curry. 

CURRY. 

%et  also  Eggs  (Curried),  "  Bobotee,"  "  Sasaties,"  Soup  (Cutry),  and 
receipt  for  Rice. 

CUCUMBER  "SAMBAL," 
(A  Malay  Dish.) 

Ingredients. 

•  young  Cucumbers.  Vinegar,  or  Lemon. 

Cayenne.  Salt. 

Soy.  A  Spring  Onion. 

Peel  your  cucumbers ;  then  cut  off  the  green,  fleshy 
part,  leaving  out  all  the  seeds.  Cut  up  this  in  thin  shreds, 
also  some  spring  onions  ;  add  cayenne,  or  green  chilli ;  a 
few  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  or  vinegar,  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soy.     If  eaten  with  fish,  some  anchovy  sauce. 

CUSTARD  IN  CUPS. 

Ingredients. 
I  pint  of  Milk.  Cinnamon,  or  ao  drops  of  Vanilla 

4  Eggs.  Essence. 

3  oz.  White  Sugar. 

Boil  the  milk  in  an  enamelled  saucepan,  with  the  sugar 
and  any  flavouring  you  prefer  (if  vanilla  essence,  put  it  in 
when  the  custard  is  made);  let  the  milk  steep  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  till  quite  seasoned.  Whisk  the  eggs  well,  bring 
the  milk  to  a  boiling  point,  then  strain  into  a  basin. 
When  it  has  cooled  a  little,  stir  in  the  eggs.  Strain  this 
mixture  into  a  jug;  place  this  jug  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water  over  the  fire  ;  keep  stirring  the  custard  one  way  until 
it  thickens,  but  on  no  account  allow  it  to  reach  boiling 
point,  or  it  will  curdle  and  be  full  of  lumps.  Take  it  off 
the  fire,  stir  in  a  wineglass  of  brandy  (if  liked).  Time — 
half  an  hour  to  infuse  lemon-peel,  or  flavouring ;  about 
ten  minutes  to  stir  the  custard.     Sufficient  for  eight  glasses 

CUSTARD  PUDDING.— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

47 


q   CUTLETS— LAMB  CUTLETS-CUTLETS  (STEWED). 


CUTLETS. 

Trim  your  cutlets  carefully ;  lay  them  in  a  little  milk, 
which  makes  the  meat  white  and  tender.  (Fresh  meat 
laid  for  five  or  six  hours  in  a  little  milk  will  be  found  nice 
and  tender.)  Have  ready  some  fine  bread-crumbs,  nutmeg, 
pepper,  salt,  lard,  or  dripping. 

Roll  the  cutlets  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  sprinkle  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with 
mashed  potatoes.  When  tomatoes  are  plentiful,  boil  about 
a  dozen  with  a  small  piece  of  onion  ;  strain,  add  a  pat  of 
butter,  and  serve  round  the  cutlets. 

CUTLETS  AND     GREEN  PEAS. 

Ingredients. 

3  lbs.  of  the  best  end  of  Neck  of  Lamb,       s  Eggs. 
Bread-crumbs.  Pepper,  Salt,  a  little  Nutmef. 

Some  Beef  or  Mutton  Dripping,  or  Lard. 

Cut  the  cutlets  from  the  best  end  of  the  neck.  Chop 
off  the  thick  part  of  the  chine  bone  ;  trim  the  cutlets 
neatly  by  taking  off  the  skin  and  greater  part  of  the  fat, 
and  scraping  the  upper  end  of  the  bone  perfectly  clean. 
Brush  each  cutlet  with  well-beaten  yolk  of  t%%,  sprinkle 
them  with  fine  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  nutmeg.  After  this  dip  them  separately  into  clarified 
butter,  sprinkle  more  crumbs  over  them,  then  fry  a  nice 
brown  in  a  frying-pan  with  either  butter,  or  lard,  or 
dripping.  Serve  with  a  nicely-boiled  dish  of  green  peas 
arranged  in  a  pyramid  in  the  middle  of  the  dish.  Can 
also  be  served  with  tomato  sauce.  Time,  eight  or  ten 
minutes  for  cooking. 

CUTLETS  {STEWED). 
(A  homely,  nice  dish.) 

Cut  and  trim  your  cutlets,  roll  them  fn  fine  bread- 
crumbs flavoured  with  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  the  tiniest 
shred  of  onion ;  lay  them  in  a  flat  pot  in  layers.  Cover  the 
pot  well,  let  them  simmer  for  an  hour.  Put  no  water. 
A  little  before  serving,  stir  in  a  little  cup  of  stock,  a 
spoonful  of  tomato  sauce,  and  a  tiny  pat  of  butter.  Let  the 
cutlets  simmer  in  this  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  seiye, 
48 


COLD   MEAT  (TO  DO  UP).  [C 


COLD  MEAT  {TO  DO   UP). 

See  Chicken  RdchaufK,  Chicken  Mould,  Chicken  (Scalloped), 
Croquettes,  Curry,  Fish, Fowl  (Fricasseed),!Fowl  (Saut^),  Fritters,  Hash, 
Kegeree,  Mutton  Chops  in  Batter,  Patties,  Pie  (Fish),  Pudding 
(Roman),  Pudding  (Tomato),  Pudding  (Meat),  Ragout,  Rissoles,  Shape 
(Cold  Meat),  Toad  in  the  Holo. 


49 


D. 

*  DELICIOSAr 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

4  ©«.  Almonds.  \  teaspoon  Cinnamon. 

5  stale  id.  Sponge  Caket.  Some  grated  Orange-PeeL 
8  oz.  White  Sugar.  Whites  of  2  or  3  Eggs. 

Pound  the  almonds,  crumble  the  sponge  biscuits,  etc., 
mix  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  whisked.  Bake  in 
small  patty  tins  till  a  golden  colour,  in  a  brisk  oven,  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  or  less.  Have  ready  some  whipped 
cream,  with  any  small  preserved  fruit,  put  a  teaspoonful  on 
each,  with  a  little  preserve  in  the  centre, 

DICK'S  DISH. 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe.) 

Put  slices  of  cooked  or  uncooked  meat  Into  a  pie-dish. 
Put  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt  on  each  piece  according  to 
taste,  with  plenty  of  Harvey's  Sauce  and  a  slice  of  onion. 
Cover  the  meat  with  a  good  rich  gravy  (made  by  boiling 
stock  and  thickening  with  a  little  flour),  then  cover  the 
top  with  a  rich  crust  of  mashed  potatoes.  Bake  in  an 
oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
(Mrs.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Floor,  1  teaspoonful  Soda. 

\  lb.  Sugar.  s  Eggs, 

I  teaspoonful  Cream  of  Tartar.  i^  small  cups  of  Milk. 

Mix  so  that  it  will  drop  out  of  a  spoon,  but  not  flow. 
Fry  in  lard. 


D]    DUCK  (HASHED)— DUMPLINGS   (GERMAN   MILK). 


DUCK  (HASHED). 

Ingredients. 
Remains  of  Cold  Roast  Duck.  Thickening  of  Butter  and  Floor. 

Rather  more  than  a  pint  of  weak  Stock        Salt  and  Cayenne  to  taste. 

or  Water.  i  teaspoon  of  minced  Lemon- PeeU 

I  Onion.  Dessertspoonful  of  Lemon  Juice. 

I  oz.  Butter.  J  glass  Port  Wine. 

Cut  the  duck  into  nice  joints,  and  put  the  trimmings  in 
a  stevvpan.  Slice  and  fry  the  onions  in  a  little  dripping, 
add  these  to  the  trimmings  j  strain  the  liquor,  thicken  it 
with  butter  and  flour,  season  with  cayenne  and  salt,  add 
remaining  ingredients ;  boil  it  up  and  skim  well.  Lay  in 
this  gravy  the  remaining  pieces  of  duck ;  let  them  get 
thoroughly  hot  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  but  do  not  boil ; 
they  should  soak  in  the  gravy  for  half  an  hour.  Garnish 
with  sippets  of  fried  bread. 


DUMPLINGS  {BAKED  APPLE). 

Ingredients. 
6  Apples.  f  lb.  Suet  Crust.  Sugar  to  taste. 

Pare  and  take  out  the  cores  of  the  apples  without 
dividing  them.  Make  a  suet  crust  as  follows :  Half  a  pound 
of  suet,  cut  exceedingly  fine,  and  mixed  with  a  pound  of 
flour,  a  little  salt,  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  rolled  out. 
The  crust  can  be  much  improved  by  making  as  in  recipe 
for  Pastry  (Suet).  Sweeten  the  apples  with  moist  sugar ; 
roll  them  in  crust,  taking  care  to  join  the  paste  neatly  j 
when  they  are  formed  into  round  balls,  bake  them  on  a  tin 
for  half  an  hour  or  more.  Arrange  on  a  dish,  and  sift 
over  with  white  sugar.  Time,  about  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

DUMPLINGS  (GERMAN  MILK). 
("  Kluitjes."     From  a  Recipe  over  a  hundred  years  old.) 

Ingredients. 
'     I  quart  of  Milk.  i\  cups  Flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  Butter.  3  Eggs.  ' 

Boil  half  the  milk,  stir  in  the  butter,  then  add  the  flour, 
stirring  all  the  while  on  the  fire  till  quite  a  thick  paste. 

?4 


DUMPLINGS  (RICE).  [V 


When  cool,  beat  up  the  three  eggs  into  it.  Boil  the  other 
half-bottle  of  milk,  and  take  with  a  teaspoon  little  pieces 
of  the  dough  ;  put  them  into  the  milk,  and  boil  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour. 

A  delicious  old-fashioned  German  dish  was  made  in 
the  following  way  :  A  young  fowl,  cut  in  small  joints,  was 
fried  with  some  butter  and  sliced  onion  to  a  nice  brown ; 
about  a  pint  of  water  was  added  w/ten  brown,  and  some  red 
chillies.  In  this  gravy  was  stirred  some  of  the  above  Milk 
Kluitjes  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 

DUMPLINGS   (RICE). 
(Very  old  Cape  Recipe.    Cape  name,  "  Rys  Kluitjes.") 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Rice.  3  dessertspoonfuls  Melted  Butter. 

3  Eggs.  Sugar. 

3  spoonfuls  Flour.  Scnamon. 

Boil  the  rice  as  if  for  curry,  only  not  quite  so  dry ;  let 
It  cool ;  mix  with  flour,  eggs,  and  butter ;  roll  in  sugar- 
loaf  shapes  (about  eight  or  nine  from  this  quantity),  dust 
with  flour,  and  put  into  boiling  water.  When  done,  it 
rises  to  the  top.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Time 
about  ten  minutes. 

In  most  Cape  Dutch  houses  this  dish  is  eaten  with 
meat,  and  generally  made  when  a  corned  brisket  of  beef 
is  boiled.  Instead  of  mixing  melted  butter  with  the  rice, 
some  of  the  fat  is  taken  from  the  stock  in  which  the  beef 
is  boiling  ;  and  when  the  dumplings  are  ready,  the  meat  is 
taken  out  about  ten  minutes  before  dinner,  and  the 
dumplings  are  boiled  in  the  stock,  and  served  with  sugar. 
Whether  from  the  German  or  Dutch,  most  colonists  who 
are  not  of  English  parentage  are  very  fond  of  sweet  things 
with  meat — such  as  stewed  fruit,  sweet  potatoes,  or  parsnips 
done  with  sugar. 

DUMPLINGS  {RICE). 
(Cape.) 
Take  one  pound  of  rice,  let  it  boil  quite  soft,  then 
allow  it  to  cooL     Stir  in  half  a  pound  of  flour,  a  spoonful 

55 


D]  DUMPLINGS  (RICE)l 

of  butter,  two  eggs.  Make  into  dumplings  with  a  spoon  ; 
boil  in  the  soup  in  which  a  brisket  of  beef  has- been  boiled. 
Can  be  eaten  with  meat,  or  served  as  a  pudding  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Time,  half  an  hour  to  boil  the  rice,  and 
twenty  minutes  the  dumpling. 


DUMPLINGS.—See  "  Beood  Kluitjes." 


56 


E. 

EGGS  {CURRIEUi^ 
(Cape  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  oi.  Curry  Powder.  About  J  pint  of  rich  Stock. 

I  tablespoonful  Vinegar.  i  large  Onion,  cut  small,  fried  in  butter. 

I  teaspoonful  Sugar.  6  Eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  Salt.  i  oz.  Butter. 

Rub  to  a  paste  curry  powder,  vinegar,  sugar,  etc.  Mix 
with  the  stock ;  simmer  this  mixture  well ;  break  the  eggs 
into  it ;  let  it  simmer  till  done,  like  poached  eggs.  Serve 
quickly.  Makes  a  nice  breakfast  or  lunch  dish.  Time, 
about  twenty  minutes  in  alL    For  four  or  Jive  people. 


EGG  FLIP. 
(Our  own  Recipe. — H.  D.) 

Ingredients. 

I  bottle  of  Madeira,  or  5  tablespoonfuls  of  Sugai; 

any  Light  Wine.  Some  Cinnamon. 

I  pint  Water.  la  Cloves. 

5  Eggs.  A  very  little  Nutmeg. 

Mull  the  wine,  spices,  and  sugar ;  add  boiling  water. 
Whisk  in  a  punch-bowl  the  five  eggs  to  a  good  froth. 
Pour  in  gradually  the  mulled  wine,  steaming  hot;  stir  all 
the  while.  Put  into  tumblers  and  drink.  Most  excellent 
mixture  for  cold  winter  nights.  This  will  make  half-a« 
dozen  tumblers. 


E]  EGGS  (ITALIAN— POACHED— SCRATCHED). 


EGGS  {ITALIAN). 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  two,  the  yolks  to  be  taken 
out,  minced,  and  mixed  with  very  finely  minced  cooked 
bacon,  and  some  chopped  parsley;  put  back  into  the 
whites  arranged  on  a  dish.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.     To  be  eaten  cold. 


EGGS  (POACHED). 

Eggs  for  poaching  should  be  fresh,  but  not  new-laid, 
or  the  whites  will  not  set.  A  stale  egg  will  not  poach. 
The  best  are  about  thirty-six  hours  old.  Strain  boiling 
water  into  a  deep,  clean  frying-pan.  Break  the  tgg  into 
a  cup,  without  damaging  the  yolk.  When  the  water  boils, 
gently  slip  the  egg  into  it.  Keep  the  water  gently 
simmering  till  the  white  looks  nicely  set ;  take  up  gently 
with  a  slice.  Serve  on  toasted  bread  or  slices  of  ham 
on  spinach.  (In  slipping  the  egg  into  the  water  keep 
the  cup  over  it  for  half  a  minute,  so  as  to  gather  the 
whites  together.)  In  doing  eggs  in  a  frying-pan  never 
do  more  than  four  or  five  at  a  time.  If  liked,  mix  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  in  the  water  in  which  you  poach, 
one  pint  for  an  ordinary-sized  frying-pan.  Time,  two  and 
a  half  or  three  and  a  half  minutes. 


EGGS  (SCRATCHED). 
(A  favourite  Colonial  breakfast  dish.) 

Take  five  or  six  eggs,  whisk  them  well  together ,-  take 
a  dessertspoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  let  it  get  quite 
hot.   Stir  in  the  eggs ;  keep  stirring  briskly  over  the  fire  till 
done.     Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast  with  pepper  and  salt. 
6a 


EGGS  (SNOW)— ENTRfiES.  [E 


EGGS  {SNOWy. 

Ingredients. 

4  Eggs.  Sugar  to  taste. 

I  pint  Milk.  Vanilla  Bean,  or  Essence. 

Make  a  rich  custard  of  the  yolks;  then  whisk  the 
whites.  Flavour  with  vanilla  and  sweeten.  Take  a 
tablespoonful  at  a  time  of  the  white  froth  and  drop  into 
boiling  milk,  turning  carefully ;  then  take  it  out  and 
put  it  on  a  glass  dish — go  on  till  you  have  done  all. 
Now  pour  the  rich  custard  into  the  dish,  not  over  the  snow. 
This  makes  a  pretty,  cool-looking  supper  dish. 


EGG  AND  SHERRY.— See  Invalid  Cookery, 
EGG  SILKY.— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

See  Anchovies  on  Toast,  Beef  Olives,  Croquettes,  Eggs  (Curried), 
Fritters  (Beef,  etc.),  "  Gesmoorde  Hoender,"  Patties  (Lobster,  etc.). 
Palates,  Sasaties,  Salsafy,  Pudding  (Roman),  Ragout  (TongueJ, 
"  Swartzuir." 


6.3 


FISH. 

See  Kegeree,  Oysters,  Fish  Pie,  "  Paarl  Lemoen,"  and  Greet    See 
also  Sauces  for  Fish. 


FISH  {FOR  BREAKFAST). 

Cut  any  cold  fish  into  slices,  steep  in  a  mixture  of 
lemon  juice,  oil,  pepper,  and  salt,  for  an  hour  or  two.  Dip 
in  batter,  and  fry  a  rich  brown  in  plenty  of  boiling  lard. 
Serve  hot. 

FISH    {BAKED). 
(Haddock  is  best.) 

Ingredients. 

I  oz.  Suet.  J  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  Sauo*. 

I  oz.  Bread-crumbs.  A  few  leaves  of  Thyme. 

I  teaspoonful  Chopped  Parsley.  A  little  bit  of  Bay  Leaii 

I  doz.  drops  Anchovy  Essence.  A  Haddock. 

Mix  all  well  together  with  one  ^g%,  well  beaten ;  stuff 
the  fish  with  it;  sew  it  up.  Butter  the  tin,  then  sprinkle 
in  a  little  lemon  juice.  Score  the  fish  to  prevent  it  from 
shrinking.  Put  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  some  lemon 
juice  over  the  fish.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  and  serve, 
Very  good. 

FISH  BALLS. 

(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Take  one  small  silver  fish,  crumb  of  one  penny  roll, 
a  small   piece  of  onion,  a  little  milk,  one  egg,  parsley, 

69 


F]      FISH  («  ENGELEGTE  "—FRIED)— FISH    MOULD. 

pepper,  and  salt,  put  all  through  a  mincing  machine. 
Mix  with  the  egg,  the  crumb  to  be  soaked  in  milk  and 
squeezed  quite  dry;  roll  into  balls,  dip  in  the  bread- 
crumbs and  egg.     Fry  in  boiling  lard  or  dripping. 

FISH  (PICKLED,   OR  ''ENGELEGTE"). 
(Cape  way  of  preserving  fish.) 

Ingredients, 

>  good-sized  Soles,  ai  any  nice  Cape  i  oz.  Mango  Relish. 

Fish  (Rlleted).  6  Large  Chillies,  or  I3  SmalL 

6  Large  Onions.  i  quart  Vinegar, 

a  oz.  Curry  Powder.  Salt  to  taste. 

Fry  the  fish  a  nice  brown  in  lard,  or  butter,  or  olive 
oil ;  drain,  and  cool.  Slice  four  onions,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown  in  a  little  oil  j  add  one  ounce  curry  powder,  two 
chillies  cut  fine,  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  mango 
relish.  When  stirred  to  a  paste,  add  a  little  vinegar  to 
moisten  well ;  then  lay  the  fish  in  a  jar ;  spread  over  each 
layer  some  of  this  mixture.  Cut  the  rest  of  the  onion  in 
rings  ;  boil  in  the  vinegar  very  gently,  until  quite  tender, 
with  the  other  ounce  of  curry  powder  and  a  little  salt; 
then  pour  over  the  fish.  Let  it  stand  till  cool,  then  cork 
well.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  two  or  three  days,  and  will 
keep  for  months.  Is  a  delicious  breakfast  or  lunch  dish. 
\See  Note  at  end  of  F.] 

FISH  {FRIED). 

Cut  your  fish  in  nice  little  shapes;  let  them  get 
slightly  dry;  dust  with  flour.  Then  roll  in  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs, with  pepper  and  salt.  Fry  in  lard.  (In  frying 
fish,  do  not  add  cold  lard  while  your  fish  is  in  the  frying- 
pan,  as  it  should  always  be  done  in  boiling  fat  or  lard.) 

FISH  MOULD. 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Book.) 

Shred  about  half  a  pound,  or  more,  of  boiled  fish ;  add 
half  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  two  eggs,  essence  of  anchovy, 
70 


FISH  (PICKLED— STEWED— OR  IN  AN  OVEN).       [F 


two  ounces  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  cayenne.  Mix  all  well 
together,  put  into  a  buttered  mould,  and  steam  for  an 
hour.     Serve  with  butter  sauce. 


FISH  {PICKLED). 

Fry  your  fish  in  the  above  way,  only  don't  use  any 
flour  or  bread-crumbs,  and  brown  the  fish  in  thin  oil  (Cape 
sheep-tail  fat  is  excellent). 

Take  two  or  three  ounces  of  good  curry  powder,  two 
ounces  soft  sugar,  two  ounces  salt,  half-ounce  pounded 
ginger,  two  or  three  fresh  red  chillies,  two  dozen  coriander 
seeds,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  about  four  or  five  onions  (cut 
in  rings  and  fried  a  nice  brown).  Boil  all  these  ingredients. 
Lay  your  fish  in  layers  in  a  jar,  pour  over  each  layer  some 
of  the  mixture.  Take  care  to  have  it  well  corked,  and  it 
will  keep  for  months. 


FISH  {STEWED). 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Book.) 

Fillet  your  fish,  and  fry  in  lard  (bread-crumb  and  cg^) ; 
slice  an  onion,  and  fry  that  also.  Then  put  the  fish  and 
onion  in  a  tin  dish,  cover  the  fish  with  stock ;  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  one  blade  of  mace,  a  clove  or  two,  a  few 
balls  of  butter  (rolled  in  flour)  to  thicken  the  gravy,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  ketchup.  Leave  in  the  oven  for  an  hour 
or  two,  with  the  lid  on  the  tin.  Serve  with  little  rissoles 
made  froin  the  trimmings  fried  in  lard.     Very  good. 


FISH. 
(An  old  Dutch  Recipe.) 

Put  your  fish  (mackerel,  or  Cape  "  silver-fish,"  or  young 
"  kabeljon  ")  in  a  tin  baking-pan,  with  a  good  spoonful  ol 
butter ;  dredge  with  flour,  and  pepper,  and  salt ;  add  one 
tablespoonful  chopped  onion  and  some  parsley,  one  blade 

71 


F]         FLAVOURING  MIXTURE— FOWL  (BOILED). 


of  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  tomato  sauce,  one  cup  of  water.  Put  the  pan 
into  the  oven,  letting  it  stew  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve. 
(Can  be  done  in  a  baking-pot  as  well.i  Is  very  nice  for 
lunch  or  "  high  tea," 

FISH.—See  LUNCHEON  DiSH. 

FLAVOURING  MIXTURE. 

Ingredients. 
I OJ.  Nutmeg.  r  oz.  Cloves. 

J  oz.  Mace.  j^  oz.  each  of  Thyme,  Marjoram,  Basil 

I  oz.  While  Pepper.  J  oz.  Bay  Leaves. 

Thoroughly  dry  all,  and  pound  fine.  Cork  well.  Useful 
in  forcemeats,  pies,  soups,  etc. 

[For  another  Recipe,  set  Note  at  end  of  F.] 

FORCEMEAT,  OR  STUFFING. 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe). 

A  little  parsley  (cut  fine),  three  ounces  of  beef  suet, 
some  pepper,  salt,  lemon-peel,  bread-crumbs,  one  egg. 
Moisten,  if  necessary,  with  a  little  milk.  If  to  be  eaten 
cold,  use  butter  instead  of  beef  suet. 

FOWLS.— See  also  Chicken  and  "  Gesmoorde  Hoender." 

FOWL  {SOILED). 

After  the  fowl  is  nicely  stuffed  and  trussed,  tie  it  into 
a  floured  cloth,  put  into  a  stewing-pan,  cover  with  hot 
water,  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half; 
put  It  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  white  sauce  or  a 
httle  chopped  parsley  and  butter.  Serve  with  tongue  or 
ham.  Garnish  the  dish  with  nicely  grilled  bacon.  (Take 
care  the  water  boils  be/ore  the  fowl  is  put  in.) 
1» 


FOWL  (FRICASSEED— ROAST).  [F 


FOWL  {FRICASSEED). 

Ingredients. 

The  remains  of  Cold  Roast  Fowl.  Pepper  and  Salt. 

I  strip  of  Lemon-Peel.  i  Pint  Water. 

I  Blade  of  pounded  Mace.  i  teaspoonful  of  Flour. 

I  bunch  of  savoury  Herbs.  i  pint  of  Cream. 

I  Onion.  The  Yolks  of  a  Eggs. 

Divide  remains  of  fowl  into  nice  little  joints ;  make 
gravy  of  the  trimmings  and  legs  by  stewing  them  with 
lemon-peel,  mace,  herbs,  onion,  seasoning,  and  water, 
until  reduced  to  half  a  pint ;  when  strained,  put  in  fowl. 
Warm  through  and  through,  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour ;  stir  the  yolks  of  eggs  into  the  cream.  Let  it  get 
thoroughly  hot,  but  do  not  boil.  Time,  one  hour  to  make 
the  gravy,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  warm  the  fov/1. 


FOWL  {ROAST). 
(The  old  Cape  way,  in  a  baking-pot) 

Ingredients. 

a  young  Fowls  killed  the  day  before.  Pepper  and  Salt. 

A  few  slices  of  Bacon.  A  glass  of  Wine. 

I  oz.  of  Butter  and  Fat, 

After  having  carefully  picked,  and  singed  the  small 
feathers  by  burning  a  clean  paper  over  the  fowl,  cut  off  the 
neck  and  skewer  the  skin  down  over  the  back.  Cut  off 
the  claws,  dip  the  legs  in  boiling  water,  scrape  them,  and 
turn  the  pinions  under;  run  a  skewer  through  them  and 
the  middle  of  the  leg  through  the  body,  to  the  pinion 
and  leg  on  the  other  side.  The  liver  and  gizzard  should 
be  placed  in  the  wings,  liver  on  one  side,  gizzard  on  the 
other.  Tie  the  legs  together  by  passing  a  trussing-needle, 
threaded  with  twine,  through  the  backbone,  and  securing 
on  the  other  side.  Now  place  your  chickens,  with  the 
breast  down,  in  a  baking-pot ;  if  not  quite  young  and 
tender  put  half  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pot,  also  a  little 
of  the  butter  and  fat.     In  an  hour's  time  turn  the  chickens 

73 


F]  FOWL  SAUTfi— FOWLS  (STEWED). 


over,  put  over  them  some  more  butter  and  fat,  and  a  glass 
of  wine.  Put  on  the  outside  of  the  h'd  of  the  baking-pot 
some  coals  of  wood  fire.  When  the  chickens  are  nice  and 
brown,  send  them  in.  Garnish  with  some  fried  bacon,  and 
serve  with  bread  sauce.  •  Time,  about  one  hour  and  a 
half. 


FOIVL  SAUTA  (WITH  GREEN  PEAS  OR  MUSHROOMS^ 
(An  Entree.) 

Ingrectients. 

The  remains  of  Cold  Roast  Chicken.  i  dessertspoonful  of  Floor. 

I  oz.  Butter.  ^  a  pint  of  weak  Stock. 

A  saltspoonful  of  Pepper.    Salt.  i  pint  of  Green  Peas. 

A  little'  Nutmeg.  i  teaspoonful  of  Sugar. 

Cut  up  the  fowl  into  nice  pieces,  put  it  into  a  stewing- 
pan  with  the  butter,  let  it  fry  a  nice  brown,  having 
sprinkled  it  with  pepper  and  salt.  Dredge  in  the  flour, 
shake  the  ingredients  well  about,  then  add  the  stock  and 
peas.  Stew  till  the  latter  are  tender,  which  will  be  twenty 
minutes.  Arrange  the  chicken  round  and  the  peas  in  the 
middle.     Mushrooms  may  be  substituted  for  peas. 

FOWLS  {STEWED). 
(My  Mother's  Recipe.  The  Cape  way  of  cooking  a  pair  of  young  Fowls.) 

Ingredients. 
2  nice  young  Fowls.  A  tablespoonful  of  Butter  and  one  of  Fat. 

2  Onions.  I  wineglass  of  White  Wine. 

A  blade  of  Mace.  2  oz.  of  Vermicelli. 

About  I  dozen  Allspice  and  i  dozen      i  oz.  of  Macaroni. 
Pepper  put  into  a  tiny  muslin  bag.     Stuffing  for  the  Chicken. 

Have  your  chickens  nicely  cleaned  and  singed.  Set 
them  on  a  slow  fire  in  a  fliat  baking-pot  with  a  cup  of 
water,  two  or  three  white  onions  (only  peeled  and  slit 
across  the  top),  the  little  bag  of  spice,  and  the  butter  and 
fat.  Let  it  simmer  for  an  hour  (the  chicken  to  be  skewered 
and  stuffed  with  the  ordinary  stuffing  used  for  turkey, 
74 


"FRICKADEL»—"FRICKADELS"— FRIED   BREAD.    [F 


etc.),  turning  the  breast  downwards.  When  nearly  done, 
stir  in  the  vermicelli  and  macaroni.  Add  a  little  white 
stock  if  necessary.  Remove  the  bag  of  spice  and  place 
the  fowls  on  a  dish,  and  just  before  serving  whip  up 
an  egg  with  a  glass  of  wine  or  some  lemon  juice,  and  pour 
over  the  chickens.     Serve.     Very  good. 


•^FRICKADEL"  {OR  SAVOURY  RISSOLES). 
(Dutch  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

Some  Minced  Mutton  (raw  is  nicer        A    slice  or    two  of   White    Bread, 
than   cookrd),  seasoned   well  with  soaked  in  Milk. 

Pepper,  Salt,  and  Nutmeg.  A  tablespoonful  Tomato  Sauce. 

A  suspicion  of  Onion.  i  Egg. 

For  I  lb.  of  Meat — a  quarter  of  a  Nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Pepper  and  Salt. 

Mix  all  well  together,  roll  in  round  shapes,  put  in  egg 
and  bread-crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat.  Stewed  in  a  rich  curry 
sauce,  this  is  a  nice  entree. 


"  FRICKADELS.' 
(Cape  Recipe.) 

First  stew  the  Frickadel  in  a  rich  stock,  in  which  a 
slice  of  browned  onion  has  been  put;  when  nearly  done, 
add  mushrooms,  and  let  it  stew  gently,  with  a  good  lump 
of  butter.      Witk  mushrooms  they  are  most  delicious. 


FRIED  BREAD. 
(A  homely  dish.) 

Take  slices  of  brown  bread,  fry  them  a  nice  brown  with 
some  dripping  (either  mutton,  beef,  or  chicken) ;  serve 
warm  with  pepper.     Very  nice  for  breakfast. 

75 


F]  FRITTERS   (BEEF— INDIAN), 


FRITTERS  {BEEF). 

Ingredients. 

Some  Cold  Roast  Beet  A  cupful  of  Water, 

looz.  Flour.  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

2  oz.  Butter.  Salt,  Pepper,  a  scraping  of  Nutmeg. 

Mix  to  a  smooth  batter  the  flour,  with  water  or  milk ; 
melt  the  butter,  stir  into  the  flour  with  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  whisked.  Shred  the  beef  as  thin  as  possible,  season 
to  your  taste,  and  add  it  to  the  batter;  mix  all  well 
together,  and  drop  with  a  spoon  into  boiling  dripping  or 
lard.     Drain  well  from  the  fat.     Serve  hot. 

Skim  milk  can  be  used  instead  of  water,  and  by  substi- 
tuting half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  no  eggs  need  be  used  for 
the  batter. 

FRITTERS  {BEEF). 
(Another  mode.) 

Take  slices  from  the  undercut  of  sirloin  ;  flavour  the 
batter  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  pounded  allspice,  and 
salt,  and  dip  the  slices  of  beef  in  it,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard 
a  nice  brown.  Take  care  the  meat  is  well  covered  with 
batter. 

FRITTERS  {INDIAN). 

Ingredients. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Flour.  The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

The  Yolks  of  4  Eggs.  Hot  Lard,  or  Clarified  Dripping. 

Put  the  flour  in  a  basin,  and  mix  with  it  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  a  stiff  paste ;  stir  all  the  time,  to  prevent 
its  getting  lumpy.  Let  it  cool  a  little,  then  break  into  it 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two  ;  stir  all  well 
together.  Have  ready  some  boiling  lard  or  clarified 
dripping ;  drop  a  dessertspoonful  of  batter  at  a  time,  and 
fry  the  fritters  a  light  brown.  They  should  rise  like  balls. 
Time,  five  or  eight  minutes  to  fry.  Sufficient  for  four  or 
five  people. 


FRITTERS  (ANOTHER  WAY— ORANGE— POTATO).    [F 


FRITTERS  {ANOTHER    WAY). 
(A  very  cheap  Cape  Recipe.) 

Ingredients, 

t\  cupfuls  of  Floor.  Ginger. 

Skim  Milk.  J  teaspoonful  Carbonate  of  Soilo. 

Mix  well  with  the  flour  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  a  little  pounded  ginger, 
about  a  cupful  of  thick  milk ;  mix  into  a  nice  smooth 
paste.  Have  ready  some  boiling  lard  or  clarified  dripping, 
and  drop  in  the  paste ;  each  small  spoonful  will  rise  into  a 
ball     Serve  hot,  with  sugar  and  lemon. 

FRITTERS  {ORANGE). 

Mix  with  eight  ounces  of  flour  two  ounces  of  butter,  then 
add  one  pint  of  water,  then  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  to  make 
a  batter.  Peel  three  large  oranges,  cut  across,  and  take 
out  seeds,  cut  in  slices,  dip  each  slice  into  the  thick  batter, 
fry,  serve  with  sugar. 

Slices  of  cold  plum  pudding  fried  in  batter  in  this  way 
make  delicious  fritters. 


FRITTERS  {POTATO). 
(Bessie's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

\  dot  Large  Mealy  Potatoes  (mashed).         2  Eggs. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Fine  Flour.  A  little  Salt 

I  tablespoonful  of  Butter,  or  Cream.  i  teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon. 

Mix  all  well  together,  make  in  little  flat  cakes,  fry  in 
boiling  lard  or  clarified  dripping.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon. 

A  similar  recipe  for  "  sweet  potatoes,"  half  a  pound  of 
which  will  be  required  (boiled  and  mashed),  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  instead  of  one.  If  eggs  are  scarce, 
use  half  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  instead  of  the 
two  eggs. 

11 


F]  FRITTERS   (PUMPKIN)— FRUIT  (BOTTLED)— FISH. 


FRITTERS  {PtIMPKIN). 

Stew  a  sweet  pumpkin;  when  soft,  add  a  few  ounces 
of  flour  to  thicken  it.  For  two  cups  of  pumpkin  take  a 
jood  slice  of  white  bread,  soaked  in  milk  and  squeezed 
lery  dry.  Mix  well  together  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  some 
cinnamon,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate 
of  soda  and  two  eggs.  Fry  in  boiling  fat.  Serve  hot, 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 


FRUIT  {BOTTLED). 
(Mrs.  Rose  Innes'  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  bIU  of  Water.  i  gill  of  Sugar  to  every  lb.  of  Fmit. 

Mason's  jars  (with  screw  tops). 

Take  the  proportions  of  sugat  and  water,  and  boil. 
When  boiling,  put  in  the  fresh  ripe  fruit  you  intend 
bottling  ;  let  it  boil  till  tender,  and  bottle  at  once.  The 
jars  must  be  hot,  and  filled  to  overflowing,  and  closed  at 
once.  Have  your  bottles  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove,  side 
by  side  with  the  fruit  you  are  preparing,  so  as  to  ensure 
their  being  hot  when  the  fruit  is  ready;  laying  the  jars 
on  a  little  straw  in  the  saucepan,  in  cold  water,  and  allow- 
ing the  water  to  boil.  Place  the  jars  on  soup-plates  (as 
they  are  to  overflow),  so  that  the  syrup  is  not  wasted. 
Fruit  done  in  this  way  will  keep  over  two  years. 

The  moment  apricots  ^nd  plums  boil  up  they  are 
ready ;  also  mulberries  and  gooseberries ;  but  peaches, 
apples,  quinces,  guavas,  require  a  longer  time. 

The  bottled  fruit  is  very  good  eaten  with  cream, 
when  a  little  more  sugar  may  be  added  if  wanted. 

[Note  to  Recipe  for  "Engelegte  Fish"  on  p.  7a] 

(Another  Recipe.) 

Substitute  turmeric  for  curry  paste,  and  add  the 
following   ingredients  to  the    onions,  etc. :  four   or    five 

78 


FISH   (ENGELEGTE)— FLAVOURING  MIXTURE.     [F 

fresh  red  chillies,  three  dozen  coriander  seeds,  half  an 
ounce  of  ground  ginger,  a  few  lemon  leaves,  one  ounce  of 
sugar,  one  quart  of  good  vinegar.  Let  these  ingredients 
boil  up  well.  Then  take  the  fillets  of  fish  (which  have 
been  previously  fried  a  nice  brown  colour  in  lard,  and  well 
drained),  and  put  them  carefully  into  the  boiling  mixture 
of  curry,  and  just  let  it  boil  up.  This  ensures  its  keeping 
for  months  if  well  corked  in  small  jars.  At  the  Cape  the 
best  fish  for  pickling  are  "Kabeljon,"  "Geelbeck,"  "Roman," 
etc 

[Note  to  Recipe  for  "  Flavouring  Mixture ''  on  p.  72.] 
(A  German  Marinade  for  flavouring  Fish.    Miss  Becker's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
\  pint  of  Vinegar.  i  oz.  of  Butter. 

I  quart  of  Water.  i  doz.  Peppercorns 

A  few  Bay  Leaves.  4  Cloves. 

I  White  Onion.  A  few  Allspice. 

\  oz.  of  Salt. 

Boil  this  mixture  well ;  strain  and  let  the  fish  simmer 
in  it  and  get  cold  in  it ;  then  remove  the  fish  and  lay  on  a 
dish  nicely  drained.  Pour  over  it  any  Mayonnaise  sauce, 
when  wanted  as  a  supper  or  lunch  dish.  It  should  be 
done  before  so  as  to  be  cold  ;  garnish  with  finely-chopped 
parsley,  radish,  lemon,  or  beetroot. 

The  tail  end  of  the  "Stockfish"  or  "Kabeljon"  or 
"  Geelbeck  "  done  in  this  way  is  very  good.  It  is  also  a 
very  nice  way  of  cooking  salmon. 


W 


GESMOORDE  HOENDER. 
(An  old-fashioned  Entree,  from  a  Malay  Recipe.     Mrs.  D.  Cloe'c.) 

Ingredients, 

A  young  Fowl.  White  Pepper. 

2  large  White  Onions.  A  Green  Chilli, 

A  little  Nutmeg.  Salt, 

3  oz.  Batter. 

Fry  your  onions  a  golden  brown  in  some  butter  or  fat. 
Then  cut  the  chicken  in  nice  little  joints,  let  them  brown 
in  a  little  butter.  It  must  be  done  quickly,  take  care  not 
to  bum.  Then  add  the  onions,  an  idea  of  nutmeg,  some 
pepper,  half  a  cup  of  water  ;  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour. 
Just  before  dishing  add  a  green  chilli  cut  up.  Toss  it  about 
well.  The  chilli  gives  a  most  delicate  flavour.  Should 
the  chicken  look  dry,  add  a  little  stock.  Enough  for  six 
people.      Very  good. 

GINGER  BEER. 
(Mrs.  J.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
S  lb.  Sugar.  i  lb.  Ginger,  bruised.  J  a  bucket  of  boiled  Water. 

Put  into  a  small  cask,  let  it  draw  for  a  day,  then  fill 
with  cold  water,  a  bottle  of  yeast,  two  packets  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Two  days  after,  it  may  be  bottled.  Ifyeastisnot 
to  be  had,  add  two  bottles  of  beer  instead. 

GINGER  BEER. 
(Another  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

%  Lemons.  3  tdblespoonfuls  Cream  of  Tartar. 

3  lb.  Sugar.  1  bottle  of  Brandy. 

I  cup  Pounded  Ginger. 

Mix  all  well  together,  pour  into  a  small  cask,  fill  with 
water.    Leave  for  two  days,  shaking  well ;  bottle  the  third. 

O   2 


G]  GINGER  POP— GRAPES  IN  BRANDY— GRAPE  JAM. 


GINGER  PGP. 
(Admiral  Etheridge.; 

Ingridients. 

alb.  of  Lump  Sugar.  2  oz.  best  Ginger,  cat  or  bruited. 

3  Lemons  (Juice  and  Peel).  2  gallons  of  boiling  Water. 

I  oz.  Cream  of  Tartar, 

When  cool  add  a  tablespoonful  of  yeast  on  toast.  Let  it 
stand  for  twelve  hours.  Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  and 
bottle,  tying  the  corks  down.  The  white  of  one  egg  well 
beaten,  and  added  just  before  corking,  is  a  great  improve- 
ment for  using  soon.     Three  days  will  do. 


GRAPES  IN  BRANDY. 
(Mrs.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Take  nice  ripe  Hanepot  grapes,  cut  them  with  a  piece 
of  the  stalk,  prick  with  a  steel  pin  ;  fill  a  jar.  Then  take 
VERY  thick  syrup,  previously  boiled,  two  cups  of  syrup  to 
one  of  good  spirits  of  wine.  Fill  the  jars,  cover  well ;  tie 
down  with  bladder. 

GRAPE  yAM. 
(Home  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
4  lb.  Fruit.  I  lb.  Sugar. 

Carefully  pick  the  grapes  from  the  bunches,  prick  with 
a  steel  pin.  Boil  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  put  the  grapes  into 
the  boiling  syrup.  Some  sliced  apple  or  quince  may  be 
added  to  the  grapes,  for  every  pound  of  quince  one  of 
sugar,  some  cut-up  orange-peel.  Boil  rather  quickly  at 
first.  Take  some  of  the  preserve  and  lay  it  on  a  saucer  to 
cool  to  see  if  it  is  ready;  if  so  it  will  jelly. 

Another  very  nice  way  of  making  grape  jam  is  to  take 
the  "Hanepot"  grape  before  it  is  quite  sweet  and  ripe, 
then  take  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  fruit,  pick  from  the 
bunches,  and  put  into  a  preserving-pan  with  a  few  cups  of 

S4 


GRAPE  JAM— GRATED  CHEESE— GRAVY.     [G 


water,  and  allow  the  grapes  to  stew  for  half  an  hour. 
Skim  off  all  the  seeds,  add  the  sugar  (and  if  you  like,  a 
few  pounds  of  sliced  stewing  apples),  let  all  boil  briskly, 
stirring  constantly  with  a  wooden  spoon.  If  done  in  small 
quantities  (not  more  than  six  pounds)  it  does  not  take 
more  than  two  hours,  and  becomes  quite  like  a  jelly  when 
done. 

GRATED  CHEESE  AND   CAULIFLOWER. 
("  Chouxfleurs  au  Gratin."    Miss  Leisching.) 

Ingreditnts. 

A  fine  head  of  Cauliflower.  The  yolk  of  i  Egg. 

4  tablespoons  of  Cream  or  Milk.  2  oz.  of  Fine  Bread-crumbs. 

A  few  slices  of  Onion,  chopped  fine,  i  saltspoonful  of  Salt. 

2  oz.  of  mild  Cheese,  grated.  Haifa  saltspoonful  of  Pepper  and  Cayenne. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  chopped  onion,  then  add  the 
grated  cheese  (keeping  a  little  for  sprinkling  afterwards), 
let  it  boil  up ;  draw  it  aside  and  add  gradually  the  yolk  of 
the  egg,  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  and  bread-crumbs.  Mix  all 
thoroughly,  keep  nice  and  warm,  and  pour  over  the  cauli- 
flower, which  should  be  ready  (having  been  previously 
boiled  nice  and  tender  in  a  saucepan  of  water  with  the 
head  downwards,  leaving  the  pot  open);  break  the  cauli- 
flower into  neat  little  pieces  (remove  all  green  and  stalk), 
pour  the  mixture  over  the  cauliflower  on  a  baking-dish, 
and  then  on  the  top  a  little  more  bread-crumbs  and  grated 
cheese.  Bake  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven,  and  serve  with 
cutlets. 

Vegetable  Marrows  done  in  this  way  are  very  good. 

GRAVY  {A   GOOD). 
(For  Mutton,  Beef,  Game,  or  Poultry.) 

When  the  roast  is  well  done,  remove  all  the  fat  from 
the  brown  gravy ;  add  half  a  cup  of  cream  and  a  teaspoon 
of  maizena  to  it.  Stir  well,  and  let  it  thicken,  and  serve 
with  your  joint. 

GRUEL.— See  Invalid  Cookery. 


H. 

HAMS  \H0W  to  cure   THEM)- 
(Proved  by  long  experience  to  be  an  excellent  Recipt.) 

After  cutting  the  hams,  rough-salt  them  for  a  night, 
letting  all  the  water  drain  away. 

For  a  ham  weighing  twelve  or  fourteen  pounds  take  as 
follows :  two  pounds  of  salt,  one  pound  brownest  sugar, 
two  ounces  saltpetre,  four  ounces  black  pepper,  four  ounces 
allspice,  and  a  handful  of  coriander  seeds.  Bruise  the 
spices  and  saltpetre,  mix  all  well  with  the  salt,  and  have  the 
ham  rubbed  well  with  the  hand  and  a  little  fiat  stone  for  half 
an  hour  every  day  for  three  days,  till  the  skin  feels  soft,  and 
the  salt,  etc.,  looks  like  a  creamy  substance.  In  rubbing 
divide  the  salt,  sugar,  etc.,  into  portions,  and  take  a  fresh 
portion  every  time,  taking  care  to  turn  the  ham  skin 
downwards,  and  cover  with  the  salt,  etc.  When  all  has 
been  used,  and  the  ham  rubbed  three  days,  take  all  the 
brine  that  has  formed  and  boil  it  with  two  pints  of  vinegar 
and  two  pints  of  good  ale.  Skim  it  well,  and  when  cool 
poui*  over  the  ham,  leaving  it  in  this  pickle  for  a  month.' 
Then  dry  it,  put  under  a  press,  brush  with  a  little  tar 
mixed  with  treacle  and  some  bran.  Smoke  for  three 
weeks,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

The  above  pickle  does  beautifully  for  sides  of  bacon, 
or  any  other  pork  that  has  to  be  smoked. 

When  wanted  for  use,  before  boiling  soak  the  ham  for 
a  night,  simmer  gently  for  three  or  four  hours.  Let  your 
water  boil  before  putting  in  the  ham,  and  then  gently 
simmer. 


M]  HAM  TOAST— HAM-HARE  (JUGGED). 


HAM    TOAST, 

(Breakfast  Dish.) 

Chop  up  some  lean  ham,  put  into  a  pan  with  a  lump 
of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
When  well  warmed  spread  on  hot  buttered  toast.  Seive. 
Another  similar  breakfast  dish  is  as  follows : 
Put  into  a  stewpan  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
or  milk,  some  grated  tongue,  beef,  pepper,  and  salt. 
When  hot  put  in  four  eggs,  well  beaten ;  stir  all  the  time 
till  the  mixture  is  quite  thick.  Have  some  buttered  toast, 
spread  the  mixture  on,  and  send  to  table  very  hot 

HAM.— See  Omelet  (Ham). 
HARDERS.—See  HERRINGS. 

HARE  (JUGGED). 

Ingredients. 

t  Hare.  J  teaspoonrul  of  Black  Pepper, 

A  few  Siveet  Heibs.  A  strip  of  Lemon.Peel. 

2  Onions.  Thiclcening  of  Butter  and  Flour. 

4  Cloves.  atablespoonfulsof  Mushroom  Ketcliup. 

6  Whole  Allspice.  i  pint  of  Port  or  other  dark  Wine. 

Skin  and  wash  the  hare  nicely  ;  cut  it  up  into  joints,  not 
too  large ;  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  a  nice  brown ; 
then  put  into  a  stewing-pan  with  the  herbs,  onions,  cloves, 
allspice,  pepper,  and  lemon-peel  j  cover  with  hot  water, 
and  when  it  boils  carefully  remove  all  the  scum,  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  till  tender  (which  will  be  in  about 
one  hour  and  three-quarters  if  the  hare  is  old).  Then 
take  out  the  pieces  of  hare,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour 
and  butter,  add  the  ketchup  and  port  wine,  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes ;  strain  through  a  sieve  on  the  pieces  of  hare. 
Let  it  simmer  for  two  minutes,  so  as  to  be  nice  and  warm. 
A  few  forcemeat  balls  {see  Forcemeat  Recipe)  stewed 
in  the  gravy  ten  minutes  before  dishing,  is  an  improve- 
ment. Serve  with  quince  or  red  currant  jelly. 
90 


HARICOT— HASH  OF  COLD   MUTTON  OR  BEEF    [H 


HARICOT. 
(Cape  name,  "  Huspot") 

Ingredients. 
4  lb.  of  Shoulder,  or  best  end  4  Carrots. 

of  Neck  of  Mutton.  Some  Sugar  Loaf  Cabbage. 

I  Onion.  About  a  cup  of  Green  Peas. 

3  or  4  Potatoes.  Some  Salt  and  Cayenne  I^per. 

Put  the  mutton  in  a  flat  stewing-pot,  let  it  fry  a  pale 
brown  (but  do  not  cook  enough  for  eating)  with  the  onion 
cut  in  slices;  then  cover  the  meat  with  layers  of  the 
vegetables  cut  in  slices ;  add  a  cup  of  water.  Cover  the 
pot,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for  two  or  three  hours.  This  is 
a  delicious  dish. 


HASH  OF  COLD  MUTTON  OR  BEEF. 
(A  cheap  gravy  for  hashes,  etc.) 

Ingredients. 

Bones  and  Trimmings  of  a  cold  joint  i  Fried  Onion. 

intended  for  hashing.  i  Carrot, 

i  teaFpoonful  of  Salt.  i  oz.  Butter. 

J  teaspoonful  of  Whole  Pepper,  Flour,  for  thickening. 

\  teaspoonful  of  Allspice,  Sufficient  Waier  to  cover  the  bones 
Some  savoury  Herbs,  well. 

Chop  the  bones  very  fine ;  put  into  a  stewing-pan 
with  salt,  pepper,  spices ;  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let 
the  whole  simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Slice  and  fry 
onions  till  a  pale  brown,  and  mix  with  gravy  made  from 
the  bones ;  boil  a  little  while,  strain,  and  put  back  into 
the  saucepan.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  rubbed  in 
butter,  or  a  little  plain  browned  flour,  a  pinch  of  brown 
sugar,  and  some  tomato  sauce.  Let  it  all  boil  well. 
Lastly  put  in  your  nicely  cut-up  meat,  taking  care  that 
it  never  boils,  or  it  immediately  becomes  hard.  Serve 
with  toast  round  the  dish,  or  fried  sippets,  A  little 
cayenne  pepper  is  very  nice  in  hashes.  Time  for  gravy, 
about  two  or  more  hours. 


H]  rJEATHERTON— HERRINGS— HONEY  CAKE. 


HEATHERTON. 
{Or  "  Friar's  Chicken.") 

One  pint  of  water,  one  ounce  of  butter — let  this  boil. 
Cut  upr  a  chicken,  set  it  to  stew  in  the  liquor  for  an  hour. 
Take  the  chicken  out  of  the  stock,  and  keep  warm  in  a 
hot  dish.  Flavour  the  stock  with  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  some 
white  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  little  lemon ;  let  it 
boil  up,  remove  from  the  fire.  Whisk  up  two  or  three 
eggs,  stir  into  the  mixture  (after  removing  the  mace)  as 
you  would  custard,  let  it  thicken,  ^«^  noi  i>oi/,  pour  over 
the  chicken,  etc.,  and  serve  hot. 

Fish,  or  any  tender  veal  or  Iamb,  may  be  done  this  way. 

HERR/NGS. 
(Cape  "  Harders."    Mrs.  Fleming.) 

Roast  on  a  gridiron  ;  serve  with  a  little  butter,  chopped 
parsley,  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice.      Very  good. 

Harders  soaked  in  water  for  a  night,  and  broiled  in  a 
buttered  paper  on  a  gridiron,  are  very  good. 

The  small  dried  and  salted  herring  commonly  called  at 
the  Cape  "  Bokom,"  is  very  good  when  done  this  way:  pour 
boiling  water  on  it,  and  then  steam  in  a  covered  pan  with 
a  little  fat.    When  tender,  remove  the  skins,  and  serve  hot. 

"■HONING  KOEK"    OR  HONEY  CAKE. 

Ingredients. 
6  lb.  of  Flour.  2  lb.  Sugar. 

i}  quart  bottles  of  Honey. 

Boil  sugar  and  honey  together ;  add  one  dessertspoon- 
ful cloves,  two  dessert  spoonfulscinnamon,  pounded ;  re- 
move from  the  fire.  Add  the  weight  of  an  egg  in  potash, 
and  one  wineglass  of  brandy. 

Mix  the  flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  ;  then  mix 
the  hot  syrup  and  flour  well  together,  working  the  dough 
well  with  the  hands ;  roll  out  thinly.  Put  into  a  buttered 
pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  one  hour.  Cut  into  squares. 
Preserved  citron,  cut  into  strips  and  mixed  with  the  dough, 
improves  the  flavour.  One-quarter  of  this  quantity  enough 
for  a  small  family.     Will  keep  for  some  time. 

"  HUSPOT.^—See  Haricot. 
9a 


HOM£   REMEDIES.  [H 


HOME   REMEDIES. 


TO  STOP   BLEEDING   FROM  THE  NOSK. 

A  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  in  a  tumbler  of  water, 
taken,  will  almost  immediately  stop  the  bleeding. 


FOR  BRUISES  OR  SPRAINS. 

Bathe  with  hot  water  as  soon  as  it  can  possibly  be 
procured,  and  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Go  on  for  an  hour 
or  more. 

FOR  BURNS  AND  SCALDS. 

Common  whiting  mixed  with  water  to  the  consistency 
of  cream,  spread  on  linen,  laid  over  the  part  scalded  or 
burnt,  gives  instantaneous  relief.  To  be  kept  moist  by 
occasional  sprinkling. 

Another  excellent  remedy  is  the  following :  Take  equal 
quantities  of  lime  water  and  raw  linseed  oil,  mix  well 
together,  and  rub  over  the  scald  or  burn.  Lime  water  is 
made  by  mixing  three  tablespoonfuls  of  lime  with  a  quart 
of  boiling  water.  Shake  well,  and  let  it  stand  for  a  day  or 
two.  Pour  off  when  clear,  and  mix  with  linseed  oil  in 
equal  quantities.  Keep  in  readiness.  No  house  ought  ever 
to  be  without  it. 

FOR  CHAPPED  HANDS. 

(A  Country  Remedy.  Bessie's.) 
Take  equal  quantities  of  glycerine,  castor  oil,  spirits  of 
wine  (tablespoonful  of  each),  ditto  goat  lard  (buck  fat) ;  a 
piece  of  beeswax  the  size  of  a  walnut,  half  an  ounce  of 
camphor  (dissolved  in  eau  de  cologne  and  spirits  of  wine), 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Melt  the  beeswax  and  goat  lard, 
stir  with  the  castor  oil,  then  the  glycerine ;  then  remove 
from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  camphor  (dissolved  in  the  spirits 
of  wine),  then  the  spoonful  of  eau  de  cologne,  and  lastly 
the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Stir  all  well  together  till  quite 
cold.     Put  into  pomade  pots.     Will  keep  for  years. 

95 


H]  HOME  REMEDIES. 


HOME   REMEDIES   (continued). 

FOR  CHILBLAINS. 

Make  a  paste  of  powdered  alum  and  milk  ;  spread  on 
the  affected  part. 

FOR  CORNS  AND  BUNIONS. 

Apply  small  strips  of  soap  plaster. 

FOR  CROUP. 

Scrape  a  teaspoonful  of  alum  with  twice  the  quantity 
of  sugar.  Administer  as  quickly  as  possible.  Almost 
instantaneous  relief  will  follow. 

FOR  CROUP  OR  COLD. 

Mix  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sweet 
oil,  two  of  brown  sugar,  and  one  of  vinegar.  A  tea- 
spoonful  taken  twice  a  day. 

Hot  flannels,  dipped  in  vinegar,  applied  to  the  chest 
and  back,  give  great  relief  in  cases  of  croup. 

FOR  CROUPY  COUGH— FOR  CHILDREN. 

Ingredients. 

1$  drops  of  Ipecacuanha  Wine.  lo  drops  of  Paregoric. 

For  a  child  of  four  or  five.     Given  at  night. 

FOR  CROUPY  COUGH,  OR  HOARSENESS  IN  CHILDREN. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  milk  or  flour  of  sulphur  and 
glycerine.  A  small  quantity  put  into  a  child's  throat 
soothes  it.     Every  two  or  three  hours, 

FOR  SLIGHT  CUTS  AND  FLESH  WOUNDS 
(H.  D.) 

The  moment  you  cut  your  hand,  etc.,  saturate  some  lint 
or  old  linen  with  spirits  of  wine,  or  turpentine.  It  smarts 
for  a  few  minutes,  but  instantly  stops  the  bleeding ;  and  in 
a  very  short  time  the  place  will  be  healed  up. 

96 


HOME  REMEDIES.  [H 


HOME   REMEDIES   (continuecC). 

FOR  CAPE  DISTEMPER   IN  DOGS. 

(Homoeopathic.) 
One  dot  of  nux  vomica  once  a  week  regularly  before  the 
dog  shows  symptoms  of  the  disease.  Young  dogs  generally 
get  it  early  in  the  spring.  When  the  disease  shows — 
which  will  be  perceived  by  the  gums  being  white,  and  the 
eyes  weak,  and  the  dog  has  no  appetite — give  one  dot  or 
drop  of  the  tincture  of  nux  three  times  a  day  for  three 
days.  Then  give  arsenicum  three  times  a  day,  one  dot  or 
drop ;  then  pulsatilla,  one  dot  three  times  a  day.  The 
dog  to  be  kept  very  warm ;  fed  on  lukewarm  water  and 
brown  bread.  If  he  is  very  weak,  give  beef  tea  three  times 
a  day. 

KOR  ECZEMA — A  SIMPLE  CURE. 

Take  equal  proportions  of  glycerine  and  castor  oil,  stir 
well  till  it  becomes  the  consistency  of  thick  honey,  and 
apply  to  the  affected  part.     Most  excellent. 

FOR  HORSES  SEIZED  WITH  VIOLENT  SPASMS  OR  COLIC 

(From  Dr.  Hiddingh.) 

Ingredients. 

40  drops  of  Oil  of  Peppermint,  4  pint  Whisky. 

50        ,,       Laudanum.  J  pint  of  Hot  Water. 

Shake  all  these  well  together  in  a  soda-water  bottle 
and  give  to  the  horse.  If  necessary,  repeat  the  dose  after 
half  an  hour. 

This  remedy  has  never  failed  when  given  in  time. 
Horses  very  often  are  seized  with  colic  in  .South  Africa 
when  fed  on  green  forage  in  the  spring  and  when  tra- 
velling. 

INSECTS. 

(To  kill  insects  on  Orange  or  Rose  trees.) 
Take   a  quart  of  paraffine   oil,   four  pounds   of  soft 
soap,  and  ten  quarts  of  water.     Pour  some  boiling  water 
into   an   iron   pot,  stir   some   soft   soap   into   the   water, 
then  mix  with  the  paraffine.     Apply  with  a  brush. 


H]  HOME  REMEDIES. 


HOME   REMEDIES   {continued). 

FOR  LUMBAGO. 

Ingredients. 
I  tablespoonful  of  Flour  of  Sulphur.  i  tablespoonful  of  Paraffine. 

Mix  well  together  into  a  salve,  spread  on  a  linen  rag, 
and  put  over  the  affected  part.  Put  a  piece  of  brown 
paper  over  it,  and  some  flannel ;  leave  for  half  an  hour  or 
more.  When  taken  off,  powder  the  place  if  very  red,  put 
cotton  wool  over  it,  and  keep  warm.     Very  effectual. 

FOR  MOSQUITO  OR  GNAT  BITES. 

Make  a  very  strong  solution  of  alum  water,  add  one- 
fourth  of  aromatic  vinegar,  and  one-fifth  of  glycerine. 
Shake  well  before  using.     It  will  instantly  cure  the  bite. 

FOR  RHEUMATISM   (A  GOOD  LINIMENT  TO   RUB  ON). 
(Mrs.  Fleming.) 

Ingredients. 
I  Egg  well  beaten.  i  oz.  Spirits  of  Wine. 

\  pint  of  Vinegar.  i  oz.  Spirits  of  Turpentine. 

\  oz.  Camphor, 

These  ingredients  to  be  well  mixed  together  and  put 
into  a  bottle  and  shaken  for  ten  minutes,  after  which  to  be 
well  corked  to  exclude  the  air.  In  half  an  hour  it  will  be 
ready  for  use. 

Directions. — To  be  well  rubbed  on  the  affected  part 
three  or  four  times  a  day,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  at  a 
time.  First  dissolve  the  camphor  in  the  spirits  of  wine, 
then  add  the  other  ingredients. 

FOR  RHEUMATISM — ANOTHER  LINIMENT. 

(From  Pretoria.) 

Equal    quantities    of    carbonate    of    soda,   spirits    of 

turpentine,  cocoanut  oil.     Put  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 

stir  till  well  mixed ;  strain,  bottle.     Rub  in  morning  and 

evening. 


HOME  REMEDIES.  [H 


HOME  REMEDIES  {continueJ). 

FOR  NEURALGIA. 

Take  a  drachm  of  citrate  of  quinine  and  iron  to  a 
bottle  of  water.  Take  a  tablespoonful  in  water  three  times 
a  day. 

FOR  WHITE  SORE  THROAT. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  chloride  of  potash,  dissolved  in  a 
quart  bottle  of  water.  One  tablespoonful  three  times  a 
day. 

For  a  child  of  seven  or  eight,  four  grains  of  chloride  of 
potash,  in  a  little  water,  four  times  a  day. 

FOR  SORE  THROAT— ANOTHER  REMEDY. 

Four  drops  of  sulphuric  acid  in  a  wineglass  of  water 
three  or  four  times  a  day. 

I  have  heard  that  burning  equal  quantities  of  tar  and 
turpentine  (about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  each  in  a  tin 
cup  or  pan)  in  the  room  of  the  patient  suffering  from 
diphtheria  gives  great  relief. 

Families  living  far  from  medical  aid  should  always 
keep  Swedish  tar,  turpentine,  and  sulphuric  acid  in  their 
houses. 

FOR  DIPHTHERIC  THROAT— GARGLE. 

A  few  drops  oi  a  strong  solution  of  permanganate  of 
potash,  in  water,  make  an  excellent  gargle. 

FOR  SPASMS,  OR  ANY  INTERNAL  PAINS. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mixed  cloves  and  allspice, 
some  ginger,  and  cinnamon,  on  a  quart  bottle  of  the  best 
brandy ;  let  it  stand  in  the  sun,  or  by  the  fire,  for  a  few 
days,  till  all  the  goodness  is  drawn  out  of  the  spices. 

Dose  for  an  adult,  one  teaspoonful ;  for  a  child,  ten 
drops  in  wineglass  of  water ;  or  dropped  on  hot  flannel, 
and  applied  externally,  it  will  be  found  very  effectual  also. 

99 


HI  HOME  REMEDIES. 


HOME   REMEDIES  {continued). 

FOR  STYES. 

Beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  with  alum  till  it  forms  a 
paste.     Put  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  apply. 

rOR  TOOTHACHE. 

Two  drops  of  glycerine  and  one  drop  of  pure  carbolic, 
on  cotton  wool,  put  into  the  cavity  of  the  affected  tooth. 
Excellent. 

ANOTHER. 

Equal  quantities  of  table  salt  (powdered)  and  alum, 
mixed  dry  on  cotton  wool.    Put  in  the  tooth  on  cotton  wool. 

TURPENTINE  PLASTER,  OR  "  VERDWYN  PLAISTER." 

(Mrs.  Hopley.    Dutch  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
9  tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil.  2  tablespoonfuls  Beeswax. 

s  tablespoonfuls  Spirits  of  Turpentine.      A  piece  of  Resin  the  size  of  a  walnat. 

Melt  the  wax,  stir  in  the  olive  oil,  the  resin,  and  lastly 
the  turpentine.  Stir  till  cold.  Excellent  for  bruises, 
sprains,  sore  breasts.  In  cases  of  cancer  it  has  given 
relief,  being  very  soothing  to  pain. 

FOR  WHOOPING  COUGH. 

(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 
Sunflower  seeds,  browned  as  you  would  coffee,  made  as 
you  do  coffee.     Sweeten  the  decoction,  and  let  the  child 
drink  it  freely,  and  especially  at  night. 

FOR  WHOOPING  COUGH — AN  EXCELLENT  LINIMENT. 
(Mrs.  Myburgh.) 

Ingredients. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Rum.  \  a  tablespoonful  Spirits  of  Turpentine. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Honey. 

Mix  well  together,  rub  on  chest,  back,  and  soles  of  feet 
three  times  3  day . 

100 


tCE.—See  Cream  (Chocolate;,  Iced. 

ICING  FOR  CAKES. 
(Mrs.  D.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
t  lb.  Icing  Sugar.  Whites  of  3  Egga 

Whisk  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  sift  in  the 
sugar.  Beat  the  mixture  well,  until  the  sugar  is  smooth  ; 
then  with  a  broad  knife  lay  the  icing  equally  over  the 
cake,  laying  on  one  layer  first,  and  allowing  it  to  get  firm 
in  a  cool  oven  before  you  put  on  the  next  layer,  and  so  on. 
The  icing  may  be  coloured  with  a  little  cochineal  or 
currant  juice.  Spinach  juice  gives  a  nice  green  colour. 
For  a  sponge  cake  the  icing  may  be  flavoured  with  orange 
or  vanilla.  Dry  the  icing  in  a  cool  oven  before  sending  to 
table. 

For  ornamental  icing  put  layer  of  white  sugar  icing 
first,  then  mix  a  little  cochineal  with  some  icing.  Make 
a  kind  of  cornucopia  of  paper,  leaving  a  small  hole  at  the 
bottom;  fill  with  the  red  icing,  and  press  it  out  at  the 
hole,  when  it  can  be  guided  into  patterns  or  raised  in 
dots,  etc.  Or  ornamental  squeezers  can  be  got  at  iron- 
mongers' for  this  purpose.  For  a  sponge  cake  flavoured 
with  orange,  it  makes  a  nice  change  to  put  a  layer  of 
marmalade  over  the  cake,  and  the  icing,  also  flavoured 
with  orange,  over  that 

103 


I]        ICING  FOR  CAKES  (ALMOND)— ICE  CREAM. 


ICING  FOR  CAKES  {ALMOND). 

Ingredients. 

I  Bk  Almonds.  i  lb.  finely  pounded  Loaf  Sugar. 

Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar, 
adding  a  little  cold  water  orwhite  of  egg  during  the  pounding 
to  keep  the  almonds  from  oiling.  Whisk  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  with  the  almonds,  beat  well 
together  to  a  smooth  paste.  Ice  the  cake  with  a  broad 
knife,  adding  layer  upon  layer,  allowing  it  to  dry  in 
between. 


ICE  (COCOANUT). 

Ingredients. 

I  Cocoanut  grated.  ij  lb.  White  Sugai, 

Milk  of  the  Cocoanut. 

First  put  the  sugar  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  on  the 
fire,  with  two  tablespoon fuls  of  the  milk.  When  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  add  the  cocoanut  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Take 
care  it  does  not  burn.  Oil  a  tin  well,  and  pour  in  the 
mixture,  colouring  half  with  cochineal  Leave  in  mould 
till  cold.     {See  COCOANUT  Ice.) 


ICE  CREAM  {GINGER). 
(Mrs.  Southey's  Recipe.) 

Make  a  custard  with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  three  ounces  of  sugar;  add  half  a  pint  of  whipped 
cream  and  some  preserved  ginger,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  freeze.  If  cream  is  not  procurable,  make  a  little  more 
custard  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Whip  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  mix  with  the  custard  while  hot.  Add  the 
preserved  ginger  when  the  custard  has  cooled,  and  freeze, 
104 


ICE   CREAM— INDIAN  PILAU.  [I 


ICE  CREAM  {VANILLA). 
(Mrs.  Southey's  Recipe.) 

Make  a  custard  with  three  eggs  and  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
sweetened  with  three  ounces  of  sug^ar.  Whip  half  a  pint 
of  cream  and  mix  with  custard.  Flavour  with  essence  of 
vanilla,  and  freeze. 


ICE  (STRAWBERRY   WATERS 

Crush  some  ripe  strawberries  and  strain  off  a  pint  of 
juice ;  sweeten  with  sufficient  clarified  sugar,  and  freeze. 


INDIAN  PILAU. 
(Miss  Leisching.) 

Ingredients. 

g  oz.  of  Butter.  3  Onions. 

4  Cloves.  A  tiny  piece  of  Cinnamnk 

4  Cardamom  Seeds.  12  Peppercorns. 

2  Hard-boiled  Eggs.  \  lb.  of  Vi^hite  Rice. 

A  few  slices  of  good  Bacon.        A  young  Fowl 
A  pint  of  good  Stock  or  Gravy. 
(Put  all  the  spices  into  a  muslin  bag.) 

Slice  the  onions  very  fine,  fry  a  nice  brown  in  the 
butter,  then  add  the  stock,  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  good  white  rice,  well  mashed,  and  a  few  slices  of  bacon 
or  corned  pork.  Put  all  into  a  flat  saucepan  and  cover 
with  one  pint  of  water,  taking  care  to  have  two  inches  of 
gravy  above  the  rice.  When  the  rice  is  all  but  done,  have 
ready  a  boiled  fowl,  nicely  trussed,  lay  it  in  the  middle  of 
the  rice,  cover  the  pot  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  rice  is  nice 
and  dry;  serve  with  the  rice  all  round  the  fowl,  garnished 
with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  slices  of  bacon.  Take  care  to 
remove  the  bag  of  spices.  Shoulder  of  mutton  or  lamb 
may  be  done  in  the  same  way,  only  difference,  the  meat 
to  be  put  in  raw  with  the  rice,  and  no  stock  need  be 
added. 

105 


I]  IRISH   STEW. 


IRISH  STEW. 

Ingredients. 

3  lb.  Loin  or  Neck  of  Mutton.  3  Onions, 

S  lb.  Potatoes.  Pepper,  Salt. 

Rather  more  than  one  pint  of  Water. 

Cut  the  mutton  into  chops  of  moderate  thickness,  pare 
and  slice  the  potatoes,  and  cut  the  onions  in  rings.  Put 
a  layer  of  potatoes  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewing-pan,  then 
a  layer  of  mutton  and  onions ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Proceed  in  this  manner  till  all  is  used.  Take  care 
to  have  plenty  of  vegetables  at  the  top.  Pour  in  the 
water,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for  two  and  a  half  hours, 
keeping  the  lid  of  the  stewing  -  pan  closely  shut. 
Occasionally  shake  the  pot  to  prevent  burning. 


IRISH  STEW  (^ANOTHER    WAY). 
(Our  Cape  Recipe.) 

Take  ribs  of  mutton,  three  or  four  pounds,  brown 
slightly  with  a  little  onion,  then  add  a  good  soup-plate 
of  potatoes  sliced,  a  piece  of  red  chilli.  Cover  the  meat 
with  the  potatoes,  and- simmer  for  two  hours.  Leave  the 
meat  whole,  only  joint  it. 


106 


INVALID  COOKERY. 


INVALID  COOKERY. 


BARLEY  WATEK. 


Take  half  a  cup  of  pearl  barley,  wash  well,  and  boil  in 
the  same  way  as  the  receipt  for  a  pleasant  gruel ;  but  will 
require  a  longer  time— one  hour.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and 
add  orange  or  lemon. 


BEEF  TEA. 


Cut  up  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  putting  it  in  a  jar  till 
the  juice  is  extracted.  The  jar  to  be  corked  and  kept  in 
a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  for  two  hours.  A  little  isin- 
glass increases  the  nourishment.     A  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 


ANOTHER  BEEF  TEA. 


Take  an  ounce  of  raw  beef,  from  the  shin  or  rump 
(freshly  killed).  Mince  very  fine,  put  into  a  cup  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  let  it  stand  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  strain,  and  give  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 


BEEF  TEA  (VERY  STRONG). 

Mince  two  pounds  of  lean  beef  or  mutton,  put  it  into  a 
jar  without  water  (closely  covered),  stand  it  in  an  oven  for 
an  hour  and  a  half  till  every  drop  of  gravy  is  out  of  the 
meat.  Mix  this  rich  stock  with  boiling  water  to  the  proper 
strength  required. 

"  BILTONO" 

(Ste  "BiltMg"  recipe,  earlier  in  the  book)  is  both  appetising  and 
^ouri^hini  for  invaiidgi 

JQ9 


I]  INVALID  COOKERY. 


INVALID  COOKERY  {continued). 


MUTTON  BROTH. 

Ingredients. 

3  lb.  of  Scrasr  End,  or  Neck  of  Mutton.       i  tablespoonful  of  Pearl  Barley, 
s  quarts  of  Water.  A  Carrot,  or  Turnip. 

Boil  all  well  together  for  three  hours  or  more ;  strain 
through  a  kitchen  strainer.  The  neck  of  mutton  makes  a 
more  tasty  broth  than  the  same  quantity  of  beef. 


CHICKEN  BROTH. 
(H.    D.) 

Take  an  old  fowl ;  cut  very  small ;  set  on  the  fire  with 
two  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  few  peppercorns,  allspice,  and 
salt.  Let  it  boil  slowly,  in  a  closed-up  pot,  till  the  chicken 
is  in  shreds.  Strain  ;  may  be  thickened  with  a  little  vermi- 
celli, if  liked.  Will  take  four  hours.  The  yolk  of  an  ^^'g, 
whipped  up  with  a  little  lemon  juice,  stirred  into  the  broth 
just  before  serving,  is  both  nourishing  and  appetising. 


A  MUTTON  CHOP. 

(From  the  undercut.) 

Take  a  slice  from  the  undercut  of  a  saddle  of  mutton, 
sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  grill  on  a  very  hot  gridiron,  turn- 
ing frequently.  Don't  put  a  fork  into  it.  When  done,  rub 
a  little  bit  of  fresh  butter  on  it,  and  some  salt.  It  will 
be  found  delicate  and  tasty.  Serve  very  hot.  The  chop 
may  also  be  cut  out  of  the  middle  of  a  leg  of  mutton. 


CHICKEN  CREAM  OR  MINCE. 

Take  a  nice  young  fowl;   boil  it  in  a  cloth.     When 
done,  take  the  breast  and  upper  part  of  the  leg ;  mince 


INVALID  COOKERY,  [i 


INVALID   COOKERY   (continued). 

and  pound  in  a  mortar.  Chop  up  the  rest  of  the  chicken, 
with  all  the  bones  broken  ;  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
quart  of  water,  a  few  allspice,  a  little  nutmeg  and  pepper ; 
let  it  stew  to  a  pint  or  less  ;  rub  the  minced  chicken 
through  a  sieve  into  the  gravy,  after  it  has  been  strained. 
Thicken  with  two  spoonfuls  of  good  fresh  cream,  or  a 
little  maizena,  rubbed  in  a  pat  of  butter  —  not  too  rich. 
This  mixture  can  be  heated  in  a  mug  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water;  don't  forget  a  little  salt.  Two  or  three 
spoonfuls  may  be  taken  by  an  invalid. 


EGG  AND  SHERRY. 

Whisk  up  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth ;  take  a 
wineglass  of  sherry  and  a  little  sugar ;  whisk  all  up  well. 
Beth  nourishing  and  pleasant. 


EGG  SILKY. 

Whisk  the  yolk,  or  the  whole  egg,  very  well ;  grate  a 
little  nutmeg  on  it ;  take  a  good  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
stir  well  together ;  pour  in  gradually  about  half  a  tumbler 
of  boiling  water ;  lastly,  add  half  a  wineglass  of  whisky. 
This  is  an  excellent  mixture  Jor  a  cold. 


A  PLEASANT  GRUEL. 

Take  a  small  cup  of  good  wheaien  bran,  mix  with  a 
little  cold  water,  then  stir  into  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  into  which  a  stick  of  cinnamon  has  been  put ;  let  it 
boil  for  half  an  hour,  till  sufficiently  thick;  strain,  and 
when  to  be  taken  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  orange 
and  as  much  sugar  as  you  like.     Good  for  colds. 

Ill 


I]  INVALID  COOKERY. 


INVALID   COOKERY  {continued). 

STRENGTHENING  JELLY. 

Ingredients, 

1  pint  of  Port  Win*.  i  oz.  Gum  Arabic. 

3  OZ.  Isinglass.  i  a  Nutmeg,  grated. 

2  oz.  White  Wine.  Sugar  to  taste. 

Put  these  ingredients  in  a  Jar,  tie  it  over;  put  the 
jar  into  a  saucepan  of  warm  water,  let  it  remain  in  the 
saucepan  till  all  is  dissolved  ;  it  must  be  stirred  constantly. 
When  cold  it  will  be  a  iirm  jelly.  Give  the  invalid  a  piece 
the  size  of  a  nutmeg  at  a  time. 

A  WINE  JELLY  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Take  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  and  peel  of  one,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  an  ounce  of  isinglass  (or  a  stiff  jelly, 
procured  from  calves'  feet  or  sheep's  trotters,  about  one 
pint),  half  a  pint  of  sherry  or  white  wine,  one  wineglass 
of  good  cognac,  ten  cloves,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  all  well  together,  put  into  a 
stewpan.  When  it  boils  up  draw  it  aside  for  five  minutes  ; 
pour  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Strain  through  a 
jelly-bag.     Use  good  sherry,  and  freshly  laid  eggs. 

STRENGTHENING  SOUP. 

Boil  two  knuckles  of  veal  in  three  quarts  of  milk  till 
reduced  to  a  half.  Flavour  with  a  little  mace  or  nutmeg, 
salt  to  be  added  when  done.  Half  this  quantity  does 
£t  a  time. 

SOUP  FOR  INVALIDS. 
(Dr.  Versfeld.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  good  lean  mutton  or  beef.  Pass 
twice  through  a  mincing-machine  so  that  every  particle 
is  well  mashed.  Set  it  on  the  fire  with  two  quarts  of 
water.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for  three  hours  or  more,  so  that 
it  is  reduced  to  one  quart  or  less.  Add  salt,  and  any 
flavouring  that  is  liked ;  a  few  peppercorns  and  allspice, 
Strain  through  a  gravy  strainer  before  serving.  '  " 
113  "  "  "* 


INVALID   COOKERY.  [I 


INVALID   COOKERY   {continued). 

CUSTARD  FUDDING. 

Few  invalids  ever  tire  of  the  plain,  old-fashioned 
custard  pudding  made  in  this  way :  Two  eggs,  well 
whipped,  mixed  with  one  pint  of  milk  and  a  spoonful  of 
sugar ;  bake  in  an  oven,  standing  the  basin  in  a  tin  dish 
with  water  in  it  to  prevent  it  curding. 

The  Schaum  pudding  (see  PUDDINGS)  is  another 
favourite  with  most  people. 


113 


N.B.— An  jams  atid  preserves  wlien  made  should  be  put  in  gTass 
bottles  or  china  pots  (previously  well  scalded).  A  round  of  silver 
paper,  large  enough  to  rest  on  the  top  of  the  jam  and  cover  it,  should 
then  be  dipped  in  brandy  and  laid  on  the  jam,  and  the  mouth  of  the 
jar  neatly  covered  over  with  paper  caretuily  pasted  or  tied  down  lo 
exclude  the  air,  and  the  name  and  date  of  the  preserve  written  upon  it. 

JAM. — Set  Grape  Jam  and  Loquat  Jam. 

JAM  {LEMON). 
{An  imitation  of  Scotch  Marmalade.) 

Ingredients. 

8  III.  of  Carrots.  4  lb.  Lemons  (or  Orange! , 

8  lb.  of  Sugu.  or  Seville  Oranges). 

First  boil  the  oranges  and  carrots  together  till  nearly 
soft,  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  well.  Pour  off  the 
water  and  keep  on  one  side.  Then  mince  all  through  the 
mincing-machine  (seeds  of  the  oranges  as  well).  Add 
the  sugar,  and  four  or  five  cups  of  the  water  in  which 
the  oranges  and  carrots  were  boiled ;  boil  it  till  clear. 
Keep  the  lid  on  the  pot  at  first,  as  it  is  apt  to  become 
dry.  Before  putting  in  the  jam,  take  care  to  oil  the 
preserving-pot  with  olive  oil  to  prevent  its  burning. 

JAM  {MELON). 

Ingredients. 

t  lb.  of  ripe  Melon,  minced,  or  A  smnll  piece  of  bruiied  Ginga 

cut  in  thin  slices,  in  a  bag. 

4  lb.  of  Sugar, 

After  mincing  the  melon  put  into  a  preserving-pot 
(previously  oiled).  Let  it  just  boil  up,  then  add  the  sugar. 
Boil  till  clear,  and  the  juice  nice  and  thick.  Stir  repeatedly, 
or  it  will  burn.     Cork  welL 

in 


J]  JAM   (KAFFIR  WATER  MELON)— JELLY. 


7AM  {KAFFIR    WATER  MELON). 

Take  twelve  pounds  of  water  melon,  six  pounds  of 
sugar,  mash  through  a  mincing  -  machine ;  also  three 
oranges.  Boil  up  well,  then  add  the  sugar.  Boil  till  clear. 
A  very  good  Jam, 

JAM  {PEACH). 
(Cape.) 

Peel  and  slice  the  "Clingstone"  or  yellow  peach. 
Have  ready  a  basin  of  water  with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it, 
lay  the  sliced  peaches  for  half  an  hour  in  this.  Take  one 
pound  less  sugar  than  fruit,  oil  the  preserving-pot,  put 
alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar  and  a  iew  cups  of  water. 
Stew  gently  till  clear,  and  the  syrup  thick.  A  delicious 
jam  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

JAM  {QUINCE). 
(Mrs.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Slice  the  quinces  or  pass  through  a  mincing-machine, 
take  the  same  weight  of  sugar  as  fruit.     First  oil  your  pre- 
serving-pot (very  clean  copper  or  enamelled),  then  put  in 
the  cut-up  fruit.     Add  a  few  cups  of  water,  let  it  boil  for 
half  an  hour ;  then  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  till  quite  clear. 

JAMS.— See  Note  at  end  of  J. 

JAMS.— See  also  Marmalades  and  Preserves. 

JELLY. 
(Mrs.  Daniel  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

z  oz.  or  i;.  packet  Gelatine,  2  Lemons. 

1  lb.  Brown  Sugar.  The  White  and  Shells  of  4  Eggs. 

I  pint  Sherry.  A  few  Cloves. 

4  pint  Brandy.  2  small  pieces  of  Mace. 

Tlie  Juice  of  3  Oranges.  6  Cardamone  Seeds. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water,  then  pour 
on  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  to  dissolve  the  soaked  gela- 
tine (in  winter  take  one  pint  or  the  jelly  will  be  too  firm), 
Then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs 


JELLY— JELLY  (ASPIC).  U 


well  whisked  to  a  stiff  froth.  Boil  on  a  brisk  fire  until  the 
scum  rises  to  the  top  of  the  saucepan.  Have  ready  a 
tumbler  of  cold  water,  pour  some  of  the  water  on  the 
boiling  jelly.  Do  this  three  times,  letting  it  boil  in  be- 
tween. Remove  from  the  fire,  let  it  stand  five  minutes, 
strain  through  a  jelly-bag  into  a  mould,  and  turn  out  when 
cold.     Very  good. 

JELLY. 
(Mrs.  Alexander  Van  der  Byl's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

>  quart  packets  Gelatine.  12  tablespoonfuls  of  Brown  Sugar. 

6  Eggs.  IS  Cloves. 

I  tumbler  Lemon  Juice.  2  sticks  of  Cassia  (or  Cinnamon). 

1  bottle  Sherry.  The  Peel  of  4  Lemons. 

3  wineglasses  French  Brandy.  The  Shells  of  3  Eggs  broken  quite  hne. 

Put  one  cup  of  cold  water  on  two  quart  packets  of 
gelatine  to  soak ;  when  well  soaked,  pour  in  three  cups 
of  boiling  water.  Whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  ; 
then  add  wine,  brandy,  the  lemon  or  orange  peel,  and  all 
the  other  ingredients.  Stir  all  the  ingredients  well.  Let 
it  boil  up  three  times,  take  it  from  the  fire,  pour  on  it  one 
cup  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  for  five  minutes ;  then 
strain  through  jelly-bags  till  quite  clear,  and  pour  into 
moulds.     Good. 

Half  a  tumbler  of  lemon  and  half  orange  juice  may  be 
used  instead  of  one  whole  tumbler  of  lemon  juice. 

JELLY  {ASPIC). 
(Mrs.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 
Two  and  a  half  ounces  gelatine  soaked  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water  ;  one  quart  boiling  water  ;  ten  peppercorns  ; 
ten  allspice ;  two  cloves ;  one  onion ;  one  dessertspoonful 
salt ;  two  bay  leaves ;  a  small  cup  of  malt  vinegar ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  vinegar ;  juice  of  one  lemon ; 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  whisked ;  one  tumbler  of  cold 
water,  thrown  in  while  boiling,  to  clarify.  Strain  through 
jelly-bag  till  clear.     Enough  for  fourteen  persuns. 

119 


J]  JELLY  (ANOTHER  ASPIC— BLACKBERRY). 


JELLY  {ANOTHER  ASPIC  OR  SAVOURY). 

Ingredients. 

1  Calf's  Foot.  I  blade  of  Mace. 
6oz.  ofHatn.  lo  Peppercorns. 

2  lb.  of  VeaL  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

I  Large  Carrot.  i  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

1  Small  Onion.  1  spoonful  of  Isinglass. 

I  bunch  of  Sweet  Herbs.  Hajf  a  gallon  of  Water, 

Put  about  six  ounces  of  ham,  two  pounds  of  knuckle  of 
veal,  and  a  calf's  foot  (with  the  bone  broken)  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  one  large  carrot,  a  small  onion,  and  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs.  Boil  it  until  reduced  to  one  quart ;  strain  it 
through  a  sieve.  When  cold,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  and  put 
the  jelly  into  a  stewpan  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  (well 
whisked),  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon  vinegar,  and  a 
spoonful  of  isinglass.  Stir  it  until  on  the  point  of  boiling, 
then  draw  it  to  the  side,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  nearly 
twenty  minutes.  Let  it  stand  to  settle,  and  then  pour  it 
through  a  jelly-bag  until  quite  clear,  when  it  will  be  fit  to 
use  for  garnishing  meat  pies,  etc.  Time,  one  hour  and  a 
half. 


JELLY  {BLACKBERRY),  IN  A   MOULD. 
(Mrs.  Jackson's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

2  lb.  of  Blackberries.  J  lb.  of  White  Sugar. 

\  oz.  Gelatine. 

Extract  the  juice  from  the  fruit  by  putting  in  the  oven 
in  a  jar  for  a  few  hours ;  strain  through  a  muslin  bag 
placed  over  a  cullender,  or  strainer.  Soak  half  an  ounce 
of  gelatine  in  a  little  water ;  add  to  the  blackberry  juice, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  all  for  half  an 
hour.  Put  into  a  wet  mould ;  turn  out  next  day ;  serve 
with  cream.  This  will  do  for  mulberries,  only  taking  more 
sugar. 

IM 


JELLY  (CALVES'  FOOT)— FRUIT   IN  JELLY.        [J 


JELLY  (CALVES'  FOOT). 

Take  four  calves'  feet,  slit  them  in  two,  take  away  the 
fat  from  between  the  claws,  wash  them  well  in  lukewarm 
water,  then  put  them  in  a  large  stewpan,  and  cover  them 
with  water.  When  the  liquor  boils,  skim  it  well,  and  let 
it  boil  gently  six  or  seven  hours,  that  it  may  be  reduced  to 
about  two  quarts,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  skim 
all  the  oily  substance  which  is  on  the  surface  of  the  liquor. 
If  you  are  not  in  a  hurry,  it  is  better  to  boil  the  calves' 
feet  the  day  before  you  make  the  jelly,  as,  when  the  liquor 
is  cold,  the  oily  part  being  at  the  top,  and  the  other  being 
firm,  you  may  remove  every  particle  of  the  oily  substance 
without  wasting  any  of  the  liquor  with  pieces  of  kitchen 
paper  applied  to  it.  Put  the  liquor  into  a  stewpan  to 
melt,  with  a  pound  of  lump  sugar-,  the  peel  of  two  lemons, 
and  the  juice  of  six,  the  whites  and  shells  of  six  eggs 
(beat  together),  and  a  bottle  of  sherry  or  madeira.  Whisk 
the  whole  together  until  it  is  on  the  boil,  then  put  it  at  the 
side  of  the  stove,  and  let  it  simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Strain  it  through  a  jelly-bag  ;  what  is  strained  _^rst  must 
be  poured  into  the  bag  again,  until  it  is  as  bright  and  as 
clear  as  spring  water.  Then  put  the  jelly  into  moulds  to 
get  cold  and  firm.  When  it  is  required  to  be  very  stiff, 
half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  may  be  added  when  the  wine  is 
put  in.  It  may  be  flavoured  by  the  juice  of  various  fruits, 
etc.,  or  spices,  and  coloured  with  saffron,  etc. 

N.B. — Ten  sheep's  trotters,  which  may  be  bought  for 
twopence-halfpenny,  will  give  as  much  jelly  as  a  calf's 
foot,  which  costs  a  shilling. 

JELLY  (FRUIT  IN). 

Put  an  inch  of  jelly  into  a  mould  ;  when  set,  arrange 
any  fruit  you  like.  Put  spoonfuls  of  jelly  in  between,  to 
keep  it  in  place.  It  must  be  done  slowly,  allowing  the 
jelly  to  set  before  adding  the  fruit.  Fill  up  with  jelly.  It 
is  an  improvement  to  steep  the  fruit  in  maraschino,  or 
brandy,  before  putting  into  the  jelly. 

131 


J]  JELLY  (GUAVA— MEDLAR— QUINCE). 


JELLY  (GUAVA). 
(Mrs.  Hiddingh's  Recipe.) 

Take  nice  ripe  guavas,  peel  them,  cut  them  through, 
and  just  cover  them  with  water.  When  quite  soft,  pour 
them  into  a  large,  coarse  bag,  something  like  a  jelly-bag; 
leave  it  to  drain  all  night  Next  day,  convert  into  jelly  by 
adding  to  every  two  cups  of  the  juice,  when  it  boils,  one 
cup  of  sugar.  Boil  briskly  till  the  consistency  of  jelly. 
Pour  a  little  into  a  tumbler  of  cold  water ;  if  it  does  not 
mix  with  the  water,  it  is  ready  to  be  poured  into  moulds 
or  jars. 

JELLY   (MEDLAR). 
(A  Swellendam  Recipe.) 

Let  the  medlars  be  quite  soft ;  cut  ofif  the  tops,  put  in 
a  preserving-pan,  cover  with  water,  boil  six  or  eight  hours 
slowly,  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  To  every  pint  of 
juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  over  a  quick  fire, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  it  thickens,  drop  on  a  plate  ; 
if  it  Jellies  it  is  done.  Or  drop  into  a  tumbler  of  cold 
water  ;  if  it  does  not  mix  with  the  water  it  is  good.  This 
jelly  is  delicious,  and  ought  to  be  a  clear  amber  colour. 


JELLY  (QUINCE). 
(Mrs.  Cloete's,  of  Constantia,  Recipe.) 

Take  about  twenty-five  quinces,  wipe  them  clean,  cut 
in  quarters,  lay  in  a  large  preserving-pot,  cover  with  water 
(about  six  quarts  to  twenty-five  quinces) ;  boil  till  quite 
soft,  then  strain  through  a  thin  cloth  or  coarse  milk 
strainer.  To  three  cups  of  juice  take  two  of  white  sugar ; 
boil  in  small  quantities  on  a  brisk  fire.  When  it  begins  to 
get  thick,  pour  a  little  into  a  tumbler  of  water ;  and  if  it 
congeals,  and  does  not  mix  with  the  water,  it  is  ready  to 
be  put  into  moulds  or  cups.  Cover  with  paper  dipped  in 
brandy,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.      Will  keep  for  years. 


JUNKET— JAM.  [J 


JELLY  {STRENGTHENING).— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

JELLY  {WINE).— Set  Invalid  Cookery. 

JUNKET. 
(Mrs.  Hiddingh's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  quart  of  Milk  (new),  i  tablespoonful  of  Vanderhum. 

I  oz.  of  White  Sugar.  i  tablespoonful  of  Rennet. 

Take  new  milk,  sweeten  with  one  ounce  of  sugar,  let  it 
come  to  blood  heat ;  flavour  with  a  tablespoonful  of  Vander- 
hum (or  rum),  one  tablespoonful  of  rennet.  Stir  well,  and 
pour  into  a  glass  dish,  which  stand  in  a  tin  of  warm  water, 
so  that  the  mixture  remains  lukewarm  for  half  an  hour,  in 
which  time  it  will  become  quite  firm.  Whisk  up  half  a  pint 
of  cream  with  sugar  and  pour  over  the  junket  before 
serving. 

Note  to  Jams,  p.  Ii8. — Since  the  above  was  in  print 
the  following  excellent  Jam  recipes  have  been  written 
down : 

JAM  {SEPARI  OR  CAPE  GOOSEBERRY). 

One  pound  of  "gooseberries"  to  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Prick  each  berry  twice,  and  put  with  the 
sugar  in  layers  into  the  preserving-pan,  and  let  it  simmer 
until  the  sugar  is  melted  (a  cup  of  water  may  be  poured 
over  the  fruit  and  sugar).  When  quite  melted,  let  it  boil 
briskly  for  two  hours. 

JAM  {PINEAPPLE). 

The  weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar.  Make  a  syrup  of 
the  sugar  (a  cup  of  water  to  a  cup  of  sugar). 

Peel  and  slice  the  pineapple,  and  preserve  in  the  syrup. 
The  j'uice  of  a  lemon  may  be  added  after  it  is  finished. 
Takes  about  three  hours. 


«»3 


K. 

KABOBS.—See  Sasatim, 

KEGEREE. 

(An   Indian  way  of  dressing  cold  boiled  fish.      Mrs.  Christian's 

Recipe.) 

i  lb.  of  Boiled  Fish.  s  Eggs. 

I  lb.  Rice.  3  oz.  of  Butter. 

A  little  Cayenne  Pepper,  Salt,  and  Nutmeg. 

Wash  and  boil  the  rice  ;  break  the  fish  in  pieces,  taking 
out  all  the  bones ;  put  the  butter,  fish,  and  rice  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  cayenne,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Stir  well, 
then  add  the  eggs  (well  beaten).  Stir  over  the  fire  until 
quite  hot.     Serve  in  a  hot  dish.     A  nice  breakfast  dish. 

KEGEREE  {ANOTHER). 
(For  Breakfast     Indian.) 

Ingredients. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Rice.  Anjr  White  Fish  previously  boiled 

4  Hard-boiled  Eggs.  A  lump  of  Fresh  Butter. 

Pepper,  Salt. 

Boil  the  rice  very  soft,  and  dry ;  boil  the  eggs  hard,  and 
chop  them  fine  ;  take  the  remains  of  any  fish  that  has 
been  previously  boiled,  mince  fine,  and  mix  all  well 
together.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  stewing-pan  with  a  lump 
of  fresh  butter,  stew  till  thoroughly  hot,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  prevent  burning,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
cayenne.  Take  care  not  to  make  it  too  moist.  (Boiled 
snook  or  cabeljon,  if  at  the  Cape,  or  any  white  fish  will  do.) 
Time,  six  minutes  after  the  rice  is  boiled. 

127 


K]      KIDNEYS  (BROILED— STEWED)— KOESISTERS. 


KIDNEYS  {BROILED). 
(For  Breakfast.) 

Take  four  sheep's  kidneys ;  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  each 
kidney  open  lengthways  down  to  the  root,  but  do  not 
separate  them  ;  skin  them,  and  put  a  small  skewer  under 
the  white  part  of  each  to  keep  them  flat.  Make  the  grid- 
iron warm  and  rub  it  over  with  butter  ;  place  the  kidneys 
with  the  inside  downwards,  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire. 
When  sufficiently  done  on  one  side,  turn  on  the  other. 
Remove  the  skewers,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  a 
little  piece  of  butter  in  the  centre  of  each,  and  serve  on 
a  piece  of  well-buttered  toast.  They  must  be  sent  to  table 
as  hot  as  possible. 

KIDNEYS  {STEWED). 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Parboil  some  sheep's  kidneys,  divide  them,  toss  in  % 
pan  with  some  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  and  flour,  and  a 
piece  of  butter.  Then  take  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stock,  a 
little  sherry,  minced  parsley,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Simmer  gently  {but  do  not  boil)  for 
fifteen  minutes. 

KOESISTERS. 
(Batavian  or  old  Dutch  Sweetmeat  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
3  breakfast-cups  of  Flour.  i  teaspoonful  of  Mixed  Spicei. 

1  cup  Brown  Sugar.  4  Eggs  well  beaten. 

2  teaspoontuls  of  Cinnamon.  Half  a  cup  of  Fat  and  Butter  melted. 

A  good  tablespoonful  of  Yeast 

Knead  all  well  together,  and  let  it  stand  for  half  an 
hour,  then  roll  out  on  a  board  made  for  the  purpose.  Cut 
each  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  let  them  boil  in  fat 
When  done,  dip  the  cakes  into  a  syrup  made  of  three  cups 
of  sugar  and  two  of  water,  well  boiled  and  flavoured  with 
cinnamon.     Will  keep  for  months. 

m8 


L. 

LAMB  {STEWED   WITH  PEAS). 

Ingi  edients. 

The  Scrag  or  Breast  of  L4<r'i9,  Salt,  Pepper. 

I  quart  of  Green  Peas.  A  little  Butter  and  Flov. 

A  small  Onion. 

Joint  the  breast  of  lamb,  lay  it  in  a  stewing-pan  with 
water  enough  to  cover  it.  Slice  the  onion  and  put  it  over 
the  meat.  Cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  let  it  stew  or 
simmer  for  twenty  minutes  ;  take  off  the  scum.  Add  salt, 
and  the  quart  of  green  peas  (shelled).  Cover  the  pot,  and 
let  it  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Work  a  spoonful  of  flour  into 
a  lump  of  butter,  and  stir  into  the  stew  ;  add  pepper,  and 
let  it  stew  for  ten  minutes  longer.    Time,  one  hour. 

"LEMON  SOLID."— See  Cream. 

LIME    WATER. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  lime  to  a  quart  of  boiling 
water.  Mix  well,  and  when  the  lime  has  drained  to  the 
bottom  pour  the  clear  water  into  a  bottle ;  cork  and  keep 
for  use,  A  tablespoonful  taken  in  milk  is  very  good  for 
indigestion.     (Prepare  lime  water  for  "  Mebos  "  this  way.) 

LIQUEUR  {ORANGE). 
(Mrs.  Myberg  Elsinberg.    Old  Dutch  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

5  bottles  of  Brandy.  4  lb.  of  white  Loaf  Sugar. 

9  sweet  Oranges  (Peel  and  Juice).  A  few  sticks  of  Cinnamon. 

Cut  four  incisions  in  the  oranges  and  squeeze  them 
slightly,  then  let  all  soak  together  for  ten  days,  then  bottle. 

■33 


L]     LIQUEUR  (ANOTHER  ORANGE— VANDERHUM). 


UQUEUR  (ANOTHER  ORANGE). 

(Old  country.) 

Peel  very  thinly  ten  oranges  and  ten  lemons.     Put  the 

peel  on  four  bottles  of  good  Cape  brandy,  add  four  pounds 

of  white  sugar.     Let  it  stand  for  eight  or  ten  days,  stirring 

every  day,  morning  and  evening.     Strain  and  bottle. 

LIQUEUR  {VANDERHUM). 
(Mrs.  Cloete.  Another  old  Recipe.) 
Dissolve  three  pounds  ol  cai«died  sugar  in  six  bottles  of 
good  brandy  (best  Cango  will  do).  Then  mix  with  it  one 
hundred  cloves,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cinnamon,  twelve 
tablespoonfuls  of  finely-cut  naartje-peel,  one  nutmeg,  a 
few  cardamom  seeds.  Let  it  all  stand  for  a  month  and 
a  half,  shaking  occasionally,  then  bottle.  Clarify  through 
filtering  papers.  The  brandy  should  not  be  weaker  than 
twenty-two  degrees,  or  the  liqueur  will  not  be  clear.  Also 
good. 

LIQUEUR  (VANDERHUM). 
(Old  Recipe.    Cape  SpicialiU.) 

Ingredients. 

lo  bottles  of  Brandy.  50  Cloves. 

10  dessertspoonfuls  of  Cinnamon  just      so  tabiespoonfals  of  findy-eut  Naartje- 
bruised.  PeeL 

Half  a  Nutmeg. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  allow  the  ingredients  to 
remain  on  the  brandy  for  one  month  till  all  the  virtue  is 
extracted  from  it.  Then  take  five  pounds  of  clear  light 
brown  crystallised  sugar,  boil  to  a  thick,  rich  syrup.  When 
quite  cold,  mix  one  cup  of  syrup  to  two  of  the  spiced 
brandy,  stir  well  till  quite  mixed.  Add  one  wineglass  of 
best  rum  to  every  bottle  of  Vanderhum.  The  rum  mellows 
the  mixture.  Put  all  back  into  a  cask,  and  clarify  with 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  whisked,  and  lightly  put  on 
the  top  of  the  cask.  In  three  weeks  it  will  be  beautifully 
clear  and  ready  for  bottling.  If  made  in  small  quantities, 
the  brandy  and  spices  can  be  put  in  jars  well  corked,  and 
the  spices  in  little  bags.     Very  good. 

134 


LOAF  (TO  FRESHEN  A  STALE)— LOQUAT  JAM.  fL 


LOAF  {TO  FRESHEN  A    STALE). 

Dip  quickly  into  cold  water,  and  put  into  a  moderately 
warm  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  This  quite  freshens  any 
loaf. 

LOQUAT  JAM. 
(Frances  Cloete.) 

Jngredients. 
6  lb.  of  Fraft.  8  lb.  of  White  Crystallised  Sugsr. 

Peel  and  stone  the  loquats ;  put  into  the  preserving- 
pan  in  layers.  Boil  quickly  for  three  hours.  If  the  fruit 
is  nice  and  ripe,  take  equal  quantities  of  sugar. 


LUNCHEON  DISH— "  SOUSED  FISH'' 
(Mrs.  Cloete  of  Alphen.    A  cold  luncheon  or  breakfast  dish.) 

Ingredients. 

The  renuuns  of  any  cold  Boiled  A  few  Allspice  (whole). 

Fish.  A  cat-up  Red  Chilli. 

I  oz.  of  Lucca  Oil.  A  few  Bay  Leaves  if  liked,  or  a 
A  large  Onion  sliced.  few  Coriander  Seeds. 

3  oz.  of  Vinegar. 

Cut  the  onion  very  thinly  and  pour  a  little  salt 
and  boiling  water  over  it ;  then  drain,  and  lay  the  fish 
in  a  pie-dish  with  onion,  spices,  oil,  vinegar,  in  layers. 
Let  it  stand  for  an  hour  or  more.  Then  cover  over 
and  steam  in  a  cool  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  To 
be  eatea  cold. 


135 


M. 

MACAROONS. 

fMrs.  Myburgh.    A  very  old  Dutch  Recipfe) 

Take  one  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded, 
and  one  pound  of  sugar.  Melt  the  sugar  and  almonds 
over  the  fire  till  quite  a  tough  jelly.  Then  have  ready 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  whip  together 
when  cold.  This  way  of  melting  the  sugar  and  almonds 
is  excellent,  as  it  prevents  the  macaroons  from  running 
together  in  the  tins.  Dust  some  fine  cinnamon  over.  The 
old-fashioned  way  was  to  put  a  small  piece  of  citron  pre- 
serve on  every  cake.  When  pounding  the  almonds  add  a 
spoonful  of  rose-water. 


MACAROONS  {ANOTHER  RECIPE), 
(Mrs.  J.  Cloete's.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Almonds  blaached  and  pounded.     The  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 
I  lb.  sifted  Sugar.  i  teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon. 

Blanch  and  pound  the  almonds,  adding  a  little  rose- 
water  while  pounding.  Mix  with  the  sugar,  which  should 
be  slightly  warmed,  then  stir  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well 
whisked.  Butter  a  paper  and  lay  it  on  a  baking-pan;  with 
a  fork  put  small  lumps  of  the  paste  on  the  paper.  Bake 
in  a  moderately  slow  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  A  small 
piece  of  candied  citron  stuck  into  each  little  cSkke  is  a  great 
improvement.     Very  good, 

139 


M]       MARMALADE  (APRICOT— ORANGE— SCOTCH). 


MARMALADE  OR  CHEESE  (APRICOT). 
(Cape.     Mrs.  Henry  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Two  hundred  apricots,  wiped  and  cut  into  pieces,  their 
weight  in  sugar.  Slightly  wipe  the  preserving-pan  with 
Lucca  oil.  Put  in  the  apricots,  let  them  boil  to  a  pulp, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Then  add  the  sugar;  stir  well. 
Let  the  whole  boil  briskly  till  a  clear  golden  brown.  It 
is  ready  to  dish  when  in  passing  a  spoon  through  the 
mixture  it  opens  dry  from  the  pot  as  it  were.  Put  into 
moulds  or  basins;  keeps  beautifully.  Some  of  the  pips 
blanched,  and  cut  up  in  the  marmalade,  is  liked  by  some 
people.  Six  pounds  is  a  nice  quantity  to  boil  at  a  time. 
Use  an  enamelled  or  copper  preserving-pan ;  it  will  take 
about  two  hours  altogether  to  preserve. 


MARMALADE  {ORANGE). 
(Mrs.  Shaw's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

le  large  Oranges.  13  pints  of  Water. 

8  lb.  Sugar. 

Cut.  the  oranges  in  thin  slices,  and  then  soak  in  water 
twenty-four  hours.  Then  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  until 
it  becomes  a  jelly. 

Lemons  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 


MARMALADE  {SCOTCH). 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Redpe.) 

Ingredients. 
6  lb.  of  Seville  or  Bitter  Orange.  13  lb.  of  Sugar. 

Scrape  or  grate  the   peel   slightly;   put  the   oranges 

into  a  stewpan ;  cover  them  with  cold  water.     Boil  gently 

for   two   hours,  keeping  them  well  under  water  with  a 

plate  on  the  top.     When  quite  soft  take  them  out  and 

140 


MAYONNAISE— "MEBOS."  [M 


drain,  open  them,  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Cut  the  peel 
and  pulp  all  together  in  thin  strips  (some  people  mince 
everything  through  a  mincing-machine).  For  every  pound 
of  fruit,  weighed  after  being  boiled,  take  two  of  sugar,  and 
one  pint  of  the  water  the  oranges  were  boiled  in.  Boil  all 
together  for  half  an  hour,  and  pour  the  marmalade  boiling 
hot  into  jars. 


MARMALADE. — See  also  JAMS  and  Preserves. 

MA  YONNAISE. 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

•  Eggs.  I  teaspoonrul  of  Sugar,  Mustard, 

Some  Lucca  Oil.  Cayenne. 

2  lablespoonfuls  of  Vmegac  Some  cold  Chicken. 

I  teaspoonful  of  Salt.  a  tablespoonfuls  of  Cream. 

First  prepare  the  following  mayonnaise  mixture  :  Beat 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well ;  add  gradually  drop  by 
drop  Lucca  oil,  until  it  is  worked  into  a  stiff  ball,  then 
gradually  add  the  vinegar,  salt,  mustard,  and  cayenne, 
until  the  sauce  is  thin  enough  to  pour  over  the  meat  the 
consistency  of  cream.  At  the  last  moment  before  pouring 
over  the  meat,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  SufBcient 
for  one  mayonnaise. 

Remove  all  the  meat  from  the  bones,  put  into  a  pie- 
dish.  Pour  over  it  about  a  dessertspoonful  of  oil,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onions,  and 
some  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt.  Leave  this  for  half  an 
hour.  Remove  the  meat  from  this  when  you  want  to 
arrange  the  mayonnaise.  Put  alternate  layers  of  meat, 
lettuce,  beetroot  on  a  dish,  pouring  the  mayonnaise  mix- 
ture over  each  layer.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs, 
olives,  anchovies.  A  few  capers  are  an  improvement.  (See 
§AUCES  for  other  recipes  for  Mayonnaise  dressing.) 

MEA  T  {COLD),    TO  DO    UP.— See  Note  at  end  of  C. 

*^ MEBOS"— See  Aph-icqts  (Dried  and  Salted). 

141 


M]  MERINGUES— MINCEMEAT. 


MtRINGUES. 
(Mrs.  D.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
\  lb.  of  Sifted  Sugar.  The  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 

Whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  with 
a  wooden  spoon  stir  quickly  the  sugar  in  the  whites. 
Have  ready  some  thin  wooden  boards,  cut  strips  of  paper 
two  inches  wide.  Place  the  paper  on  the  board,  and  drop 
a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  on  the  paper,  taking  care 
to  let  all  the  mdringues  be  of  the  same  size.  In  dropping 
it  off  the  spoon,  give  them  the  shape  of  an  t^g  (if  a 
tablespoonful  is  taken  and  carefully  turned  over,  it  is  egg- 
shaped).  Keep  them  two  inches  apart.  Strew  over  them 
sifted  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an 
hour.  As  they  begin  to  colour,  take  them  out  of  the  oven. 
Take  each  slip  of  paper  by  the  two  ends,  and  turn  it 
gently  on  the  table,  and  with  a  small  spoon  take  out 
the  soft  part  of  the  meringue.  Spread  some  clean  papers 
on  the  board,  turn  the  meringues  upside  down,  and  put 
them  into  the  oven  again  to  harden  and  brown  on  the 
other  side.  If  kept  in  a  dry  place  they  will  keep  for 
weeks.  When  required  for  table,  fill  them  with  whipped 
cream  flavoured  with  liqueur  (Vanderhum)  and  vanilla. 
Join  two  of  the  mdringues  together,  and  pile  them  high 
on  the  dish.  Great  quickness  is  required  in  making 
meringues,  for  if  they  are  not  put  into  the  oven  as  soon  as 
they  are  mixed  the  sugar  melts.  The  sweeter  the  meringues 
are  made  the  crisper  they  will  be ;  they  are  sometimes 
coloured  with  cochineal.  This  quantity  will  make  two 
dozen. 

MINCEMEAT. 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Beef  SueL  J  lb.  Candied  PeeL 

I  lb.  Stoned  Raisins  cut  in  half.  i  teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1  lb.  Currants.  2  oz.  Scotch  Marmalade. 

2  lb.  Apples  chopped  small.  i  teaspoonful  Powdered  Cloves. 
2  lb.  Castor  Sugar.  4  pint  of  Brandy. 

Mix  all  well  together.  To  be  made  a  month  before 
it  is  used.     It  will  keep  for  a  year  if  well  corked. 

14a 


MINCEMEAT  (ANOTHER)— "MOSS  BOLLETJES."    [M 


MINCEMEAT  {ANOTHER). 
(Mrs.  Andrews'  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

S  Isir^e  Lemons,  i  lb.  Chopped  Saet 

3  large  Apples.  3  lb.  Moist  Sugar. 

I  lb.  Stoned  Ratslni,  i  oz.  Sliced  Candied  Orange-PeeL 

\  lb.  Currants.  i  teacupful  of  Brandy, 

3  tablespoonfuls  Orange  Marmalade. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons,  squeeze  out  the  juice, 
strain  it.  Boil  the  remainder  of  the  lemons  until  tender 
enough  to  pulp,  also  the  apples,  which  are  to  be  mashed, 
Add  the  other  ingredients  one  by  one ;  mix  all  well  to- 
gether, put  into  jars  with  closely  covered  lid.     Excellent. 

MINCE  PIES.— See  Note  at  end  of  M. 

"MOSS  BOLLETyES." 

(An  old  Dutch  Recipe.    From  Mrs.  Moorries.) 

Ingredients. 
2  lb.  of  Raisins.  li  lb.  Butter. 

i6  lb.  Flour.  I  lb.  Fat. 

si  lb.  Sugar.  2  tablespoonruls  AntsecA 

8  Eggs.  2  Nutmegs  grated. 

I  tabIesp«onful  Cinnamon  very  finely  pounded. 

"  Moss  Bolletje  " — so  called  from  "  Moss,"  juice  of  the 
grape  in  its  first  stages  of  fermentation,  and  "  Bolletje,"  a 
bun.  During  the  wine-making  season  the  freshly  fermented 
grape-juice  is  commonly  used  instead  of  yeast  by  the 
country  people  at  Stellenbosch,  French  Hoek,  etc.,  and 
very  nice  buns,  etc.,  are  made  of  it.  When  grapes  are  not 
to  be  had  we  take  raisins,  as  in  following  recipe,  and  put 
them  in  a  jar  which  is  previously  seasoned  by  having  had 
fermented  raisins  or  grapes  in  it.  This  jar  is  not  washed 
with  water,  but  generally  dried  in  the  sun  and  kept  closely 
covered  from  dust,  and  only  used  for  making  the  "  moss  " 
in,  as  one  is  so  much  surer  of  its  fermenting  in  a  given 
time  if  made  in  a  seasoned  jar  or  calabash. 

Cut  the  raisins  or  mince  them,  put  them  into  a  jar  or 
calabash,  with  twelve  cups  of  lukewarm  water,  on  the  stove 
or  warmest  part  of  your  kitchen  for  twenty-four  hours, 
till  they  ferment.  Have  ready  the  flour,  in  which,  after 
being  well  mixed  with  the  sugar,  spices,  etc.,  make  a 

143 


M]        MUSHROOMS  (FRIED— STEWED)— MUTTON. 


hole  ;  into  this  strain  the  fermented  juice  of  the  raisins. 
Sprinkle  some  flour  over  the  top,  and  set  to  rise  for 
some  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Then  melt  the  butter  and 
fat,  warm  the  milk,  whisk  the  eight  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  separately.  Mix  the  whole  well  together  into  a 
stiff  dough,  knead  with  the  hand  for  quite  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  let  it  stand  over-night  to  rise.  In  the  morning 
roll  into  buns,  set  in  buttered  pans  in  a  warm  place,  let 
them  rise  for  half  an  hour.  Brush  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  some  milk  and  sugar.  Bake  for  half  an  hour  in  an 
oven  heated  as  for  bread.  To  dry,  cut  into  two  or  three 
when  cold,  and  put  into  a  cool  oven  over-night.  Very 
good. 

MUSHROOMS  (^FRIED). 
Take  large  "  flap  "  mushrooms,  peel  carefully ;  fry  in  a 
pan,  with  pepper  and  salt,  in  boiling  lard  or  butter,  and 
serve  on  toast  very  hot.     (As  a  vegetable  or  as  a  breakfast 
dish.) 

MUSHROOMS  {STEWED). 

(My  Mother's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
Button  Mushrooms.  Some  Fine  Bread-crumbi 

Salt  to  taste.  A  tablespoonlul  of  Cream. 

1  oz.  of  Butter,  Pepper. 

A  little  Nutmeg. 

Wash  and  thoroughly  cleanse  the  mushrooms  from 
sand ;  put  them  in  a  stewing-pan  with  the  lid  closed,  let 
them  simmer  till  tender.  Then  add  the  butter,  rolled  in 
flour  or  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Boil  for  ten 
minutes.  When  ready  to  dish,  stir  in  the  cream  or  the 
yolk  of  an  egg.    (To  eat  with  meat,  or  as  a  breakfast  dish.) 

MUSHROOMS  {STEWED). 
Clean  and  wipe  your  mushrooms  well.  For  every  three 
large  mushrooms  or  six  buttons  take  a  dessertspoonful  of 
cream,  a  seasoning  of  cayenne  and  salt,  or  nutmeg  and 
pepper  if  preferred.  Stew  for  half  an  hour,  till  nice  and 
tender.  Serv^  Qn  hot  devilled  tQ^s^  wjth  grust  cut  off 
Good, 
144 


MUTTON  CHOPS  (IN  BATTER-ANOTHER  WAY).  LM 


MVTTON.—See  Saddle. 

MUTTON  BROTH.— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

MUTTON  CHOP.— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

MUTTON  CHOPS. 
(A  favourite  Cape  dish.) 

Cut  some  nice  chops,  either  from  a  loin  or  neck  of 
mutton  that  has  been  well  hung;  beat  them  well  with  a 
wooden  kitchen  mallet ;  then  dip  in  boiling  fat  or  lard, 
then  in  bread-crumbs  (made  by  drying  stale  bread  in  an 
oven,  and  pounding  it,  and  keeping  ready  for  use),  or  fine 
biscuit,  some  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  your  gridiron, 
well  heated  on  wood  coals  ;  lay  your  chops  on  this,  and 
broil  a  nice  brown  over  a  quick  fire,  turning  occasionally. 
Serve  with  a  mould  of  mashed  potatoes  or  tomato  sauce. 
Very  good. 

Pork  chops  done  in  the  same  way  are  very  good. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  IN  BATTER. 
(A  Colonial  Recipe.) 
Cut  from  a  tender  leg  of  mutton  (uncooked),  or  loin, 
nice  little  slices.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Dip  in  a  batter  made  of  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  two  eggs  (if  eggs  are 
scarce,  flour  mixed  with  thick  milk  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  carbonate  of  soda  makes  a  very  light,  nice  batter).  Fry 
io  hot  dripping  or  lard,  as  you  would  a  cutlet 

MUTTON  CHOPS  IN  BATTER  {ANOTHER  IVAY\ 
(tor  Cold  Mutton.) 
From  a  cold  leg  of  mutton  cut  slices  an  eighth  of  an 
Inch  thick.  Beat  up  an  egg,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce ;  dip  each  slice  in  this,  roll  in  bread- 
crumbs. Fry  quickly.  Serve  with  fried  or  mashed 
potatoe& 


«« 


M]  MINCE  PIES. 


Note  to  Mincemeat,  p.  143. — The  following  is  a  good 
way  to  make  mincemeat  into  mince  pies : 

Make  some  puff  paste  (see  p.  194),  roll  it  out  very 
thinly,  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  line  your  patty-tins 
(first  butter  them) ;  fill  liberally  with  mincemeat  (p.  143), 
cover  with  a  thicker  layer  of  puff  paste,  brush  over  with 
an  egg  v/ell  whisked.  Bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Sprinkle  or  sift  very  fine  sugar  over 
them.  The  pies  may  be  warmed  up  if  made  a  day  or 
two  before  wanted. 

The   pies   may   be   made   /ike  open   tarts,   and   burnt 
brandy  handed  round  with  thenx 


N, 


"  NAARTJE  COMFYT? 

(Mandarin  Orange  Preserve.    From  my  Grandmother's  Dutch 
Recipe  BooL:.) 

Take  two  pounds  more  sugar  than  the  weight  of  the 
orange.  Rasp  the  naartje  with  a  piece  of  glass  (which 
prevents  it  tasting  of  steel)  or  a  blunt  knife ;  cut  two 
slits  across  the  bottom  of  the  naartje,  lay  in  water  for  two 
or  three  days,  giving  clean  water  every  day.  Boil  the 
syrup,  and  when  tepid  pour  it  over  the  fruit ;  leave  it  for  a 
night ;  preserve  the  next  day  very  slowly,  only  letting  it 
simmer.  Repeat  the  process  the  third  day,  then  bottle 
and  cork  well. 


NASTURTIUM  SEEDS  USED  AS  CAPERS. 

Gather  the  seeds  before  they  are  too  hard,  keep  them 
for  a  day  or  two  with  salt  sprinkled  over  them,  then  put 
them  into  empty  pickle  bottles ;  pour  boiling  vinegar  over 
them  and  leave  them  to  cooJ       When  cold,  cork  closely. 

The  nasturtium  flowers  are  very  nice  to  eat  with  bread 
and  cheese,  and  butter ;  and  look  very  pretty  to  hand 
round  on  a  separate  plate,  with  the  cheese  and  butter, 
after  dinner. 


149 


'OBLE7JES'  {OR  "  OUBLltS"). 

(An  old-fashioned  Recipe  for  Tea  Cakes  brought  to  the  Cape 
by  the  French  Refugees.) 

Ingrtdients, 

a  lb.  Fine  Flour.  4  Eggs. 

I  lb.  Castor  Sugar.  3  Dessertspoonfuls  fine  sifted 

3  lb.  Butter.  Cinnamon. 

}  pint  Wine. 

Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  mix  with  the  sugar,  add  eggs, 
whisked  separately,  the  wine,  and  lastly  the  flour,  in 
which  the  cinnamon  has  been  mixed.  If  the  batter  is 
not  quite  thin  enough  to  spread,  add  a  little  more  wine. 
Bake  in  an  oubli6-pan ;  put  about  a  dessertspoonful  on 
the  pan,  shut  tight  and  hold  over  the  fire  to  brown  on 
both  sides ;  it  will  take  two  minutes.  Open  the  pan, 
roll  the  oublie  as  you  would  a  pancake,  wAtle  hot.  The 
oublids  ought  to  be  very  crisp  and  light,  and  as  thin 
as  a  wafer.  Oublid-pans  are  called  by  ironmongers  "wafer- 
pans,"  and  can  be  obtained  in  all  the  English  shops,  and 
at  Findlay,  Koch,  Dixie,  etc..  Cape  Town. 

OMELET  {FOR  BREAKFAST). 

Ingredients. 

iEggs.  i  piut  of  New  Milk, 

slice  of  Stale  White  Bread.  Pepper  and  Salt. 

Whisk  the  eggs  well;  soak  the  bread  in  milk,  mash 
very  finely,  mix  with  the  whipped  ^g'g.  Fry  in  a  pan  with 
a  little  butter  or  fat.  (Makes  three  good  omelets.  Time, 
about  three  minutes  each.) 


O]    OMELET  (EGG  AND  OYSTER— HAM  OR  TONGUE). 


OMELET  {EGG  AND  OYSTER). 

Ingredients. 

4  Eggs.  \  a  pint  of  Milk. 

ij  oz.  of  Flour.  6  large  Oysteis. 

Pepper  and  Salt. 

Chop  up  six  large  oysters ;  make  a  batter  of  the  flour 
and  milk.  Mix  the  whole  together,  and  fry  in  butter  or 
fat  slowly.     The  oysters  may  be  potted  or  raw. 


OMELET  {GERMAN). 

Ingredients. 

a  Eggs.  1  teaspoonful  Cream. 

I  teaspoonful  Flour.  J  pint  Boiling  Milk. 

I  teaspoonful  Maizena.  i  tablespoonlul  Sugar. 

20  drops  Vanilla  Essence. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  one  teaspoonful  of  fine 
flour  and  one  spoonful  of  maizena,  then  the  spoonful  of 
cream,  then  the  quarter  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and 
lastly  the  whites  well  whisked.  Butter  two  ordinary 
kitchen  tin  plates,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  till  set.  Then  carefully  lay  on  a  silver  (hot 
water)  dish,  put  a  layer  of  apricot  or  any  other  marmalade 
on  it,  and  cover  with  the  other  omelet.  (Three  omelets 
make  a  nice  dish  for  four  or  five  people.  These  may  be 
made  savoury  omelets  by  putting  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley 
instead  of  jam.) 


OMELET  {HAM  OR   TONGUE). 
(English.) 

Ingredients. 

S  oz.  Butter.  3  dessertspoonfuls  of  Grated  Ham  or 

4  S«gs.  Tongue. 

A  little  Pepper  and  Salt. 

Grate  or  mince  some  ready-dressed  ham  or  tongue  very 
fine.  Whisk  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  seoarately, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  beat  well  together,  stir  into 
the  tongue  and  ham.  Put  some  butter  into  your  omelet 
pan,  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  whirl  up  the  mixture 
154 


OMELET  (A  GOOD  SWEET)— ORANGE  PRESERVE.    [O 


and  pour  it  into  the  pan.  Stir  with  a  spoon  one  way 
until  it  thickens,  then  fold  the  edges  of  the  omelet  over  in 
an  oval  form.  Brown  nicely,  and  serve  as  quickly  as  possible. 
Pop  the  dish  into  a  hot  stove  oven  for  a  few  minutes  if 
not  quite  brown  enough.     Time,  five  or  six  minutes. 

OMELET  {A   GOOD  SWEET). 
(Mrs.  Spence's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

6  Eggs.  I  teaspoonful  of  Grated  Lemon-Peel. 

3  oz.  Sugar.  3  oz.  Butter. 

Whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  your  omelet 
pan  quite  hot,  put  in  three  ounces  of  butter,  and  when 
it  is  melted,  mix  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  yolks, 
sugar,  and  lemon-peel,  and  pour  into  the  pan,  shaking 
it  round  till  the  under  side  is  slightly  browned.  Then 
sift  sugar  over  the  upper  side.  Turn  it  into  a  dish,  fold  it 
over,  and  put  it  for  five  minutes  into  a  brisk  oven.  Serve 
it  immediately,  before  it  can  fall. 

OLIVES.— See  Beef  Olives. 

ONIONS  A   LA   CRMmE. 

Ingredients. 

6  or  S  nice  White  Spanish  Onions.  J  pint  of  Cream. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Fine  Flour  or  Maizena.  2  oz.  of  Butter. 

Boil  the  onions  in  two  or  three  waters  till  nice  and  soft, 
and  also  to  take  off  the  strong  taste ;  drain  them,  and  lay 
them  in  a  warmed  vegetable  dish.  Have  ready  a  sauce 
made  of  the  flour,  cream,  and  butter,  as  follows  :  Rub  the 
flour  and  butter  well  together,  then  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
boiling  water.  Stir  nice  and  smooth  till  quite  mixed,  then 
add  the  cream  or  milk,  and  keep  stirring  till  nearly  boiling. 
Pour  this  sauce  over  the  onions,  and  serve  hot.  Time,  two 
hours. 

ORANGE  PRESERVE.— See  "Naartje  Comfyt." 

155 


O]  OYSTERS  (SCALLOPED). 


OYSTERS  {SCALLOPED^ 

Ingredients. 
•  dot  Oysters.  a  or.  of  Fresh  BuUtf. 

A  tea-cup  of  Grated  Bread-crumbs.  Pepper, 

A  little  Lemon  Juice^ 

Butter  some  tin  scallop-shells,  or,  if  you  have  not  any, 
a  small  pie-dish.  Strew  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  some  thin 
slices  of  butter,  then  oysters  enough  to  fill  up  tin  or  dish. 
Cover  with  bread-crumbs  and  slices  of  butter,  add  pepper, 
salt,  and  lemon,  and  some  of  the  liquor  kept  from  the 
oysters.  Put  butter  over  the  whole  surface,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  in  dish  or  shells 
in  which  it  has  been  cooked.     Time,  quarter  of  an  hour. 


OVENS  {IMPROVISED). 

For  travellers  camping  out  in  South  Africa,  Nature 
has  provided  wonderfully  good  ovens  in  the  ant-heaps, 
which  are  plentiful  in  this  country.  Supposing  that 
there  was  little  or  no  shelter,  and,  as  would  be  quite 
natural,  great  difficulty  in  lighting  fire  where  wood  is 
scarce,  the  traveller  should  halt  in  the  vicinity  of  an  ant- 
heap.  He  should  make  a  hole  at  the  side  and  go  on 
scooping  it  out  until  there  is  a  good-sized  cavity ;  then 
make  a  hole  at  the  top  just  large  enough  to  fit  a  saucepan 
or  kettle  on.  After  collecting  some  dry  grass,  set  it  alight, 
and  place  it  in  the  cavity.  The  inner  walls  of  the  ant- 
heap  being  mostly  composed  of  fine  dry  grass,  it  will 
soon  ignite,  and  in  a  very  short  time  the  pot  or  kettle  will 
be  boiling.  If  he  wishes  to  bake  a  loaf  the  oven  would  be 
found  sufficiently  hot,  the  hole  at  the  top  having  heen 
filled  up  with  clay,  which  can  be  obtained  by  mixing  the 
stuff  taken  from  the  ant-heap  with  water.  If  the  traveller 
be  halting  in  a  wooded  part,  an  oven  may  be  improvised 
by  scooping  a  hole  in  a  bank  or  ravine  and  heating  it  with 
wood.  For  an  improvised  stove,  travellers  should  provide 
IS6 


OVENS  (IMPROVISED).  [O 


themselves  with  an  empty  oil-drum — one  that  would 
contain  six  gallons  of  oil — the  top  to  be  cut  out,  and  at 
about  four  inches  from  the  bottom,  two  holes,  four  inches 
square,  to  be  made  on  opposite  sides.  Lay  some  wood 
in  the  drum,  and  light  the  fire,  then  place  the  saucepan 
on  the  top.  This  would  be  found  useful  in  either  windv 
or  rainy  weather,  and  has  been  used  by  fishermen  in  open 
boats  at  sea.  In  travelling  the  oil-drum  will  form  an 
excellent  stowaway  for  small  articles. 


W 


"  PAARL  LEMOEN?—See  p.  164. 

PANCAKES. 
(Mrs.  Brink.    An  old  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
6  Eges.  A  little  Salt. 

\  b.  of  Flonr.  2  tablespoonTuls  Melted  Butter. 

X  tea-cup  of  Warm  Water.  i  quart  of  Milk. 

Whip  up  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately ; 
stir  in  the  melted  butter  and  flour  gradually,  then  the 
milk  and  water ;  mix  very  smoothly.  Put  an  omelet-pan 
on  the  fire,  with  a  pat  of  butter  or  fat.  Put  in  sufficient 
batter  to  run  over  it  as  thick  as  a  crown  piece  ;  shake  the 
pan  when  you  think  one  side  is  done,  toss  it  up  so  as 
to  turn.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  or  spread  with  honey,  roll 
up  and  put  on  a  dish  in  the  oven  until  you  have  enough  to 
send  in,  or  place  them  on  a  dish,  grating  some  sugar  and 
cinnamon  between  each,  cut  in  quarters,  and  send  in  very 
hot. 

\See  Note  to  Pancakes  at  end  of  P.,  p.  195.] 

PANCAKES  {AUGUSTA'S  FRENCH). 

Ingredients. 

•  oz.  Butter.  2  Eggs. 

2  oz.  Castor  Sugar.  A  little  Essence  of  Almoadb 

2  oz.  Flour.  \  pint  of  Fresh  Milk. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  froth  ;  add  the  sugar,  then  one 
egg  well  beaten  with  sugar  and  butter,  then  the  other,  then 
milk;  lastly  the  flour.  This  paste  must  he  quite  smooths 
Then  butter  four  tin  plates.  Bake  the  pancakes  in  an 
oven.     When  ready,  put  one  pancake  over  the  other,  with 

M 
101 


P]  PALATES  (BEEF)— PARSNIPS  (STEWED). 


apricot  jam,  or  other  preserve,  between  each.     Serve  with 
sifted  sugar.     Time,  about  fifteen  minutes.     Very  good. 

PALATES  {BEEF). 
(Mrs.  Hiddingh's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
4  Palates.  A  seasoning  of  Nutmeg,  Pepper,  or 

2  oz.  of  Butter.  Cayenne. 

Four  ox  palates  make  a  good  dish;  soak  them,  and  wash 
very  clean ;  then  scald  them,  and  scrape  off  all  the  rough 
skin  till  perfectly  white  and  clean-looking.  Then  boil 
gently,  in  a  good  quantity  of  water,  till  tender.  Take 
them  out,  and  press  them  between  two  plates ;  let  them 
cool ;  cut  them  into  small  squares,  or  any  nice  shape.  Now 
take  of  the  stock  in  which  the  palates  were  boiled  sufficient 
to  cover  them ;  strain ;  season  with  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
salt ;  thicken  with  fine  bread-crumbs  or  biscuit ;  add  an 
ounce  of  butter  and  a  spoonful  of  cream.  Stew  the  palates 
gently  in  this,  and  serve  as  an  entree. 

PARSNIPS  (JSTEWED). 

Ingredients. 
4  Large  Parsnips.  A  piece  of  Butter  mixed  with  Flour. 

\  pint  of  Cream.  Grated  Nutmeg.     Salt. 

Boil  the  parsnips  till  nearly  tender;  cut  into  thin 
slices,  and  put  them  in  a  stewing-pan  with  the  cream  or 
milk,  butter  (rolled  in  flour),  nutmeg,  and  salt.  Keep 
shaking  the  pan  till  it  is  well  mixed,  thick,  and  smooth. 
Put  in  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

PARSNIPS  {STEWED),  ANOTHER  RECIPE. 
(Cape  way.) 
Take  nice  tender  parsnips,  cut  them  in  rings,  put  them 
In  a  stewing-pot  in  layers,  sprinkling  some  sugar,  flour, 
and  a  little  bit  of  butter  between  each ;  pour  a  pint  of 
water  over  it,  and  let  it  simmer  for  two  hours,  giving  the 
pot  an  occasional  toss. 

I62 


PASTRY  (CHEAP— SUET)— PATTIES.  [P 


PASTRY  {CHEAP). 
(French.) 

It^edients. 

!Vo,  of  Flour.  J  lb.  of  clarified  Dripping  or  Lard. 

a  teaspoonful  ot  Baking  Powder.  Butter,  if  vou  have  it,  is  better. 

I  Egg. 

Rub  the  flour,  and  half  the  dripping,  and  baking- 
powder  together;  then  mix  with  the  egg  and  as  much 
water  as  will  make  it  the  right  consistency.  Roll  out 
twice,  and  spread  over  it  the  remainder  of  the  fat  or 
butter.     This  makes  a  good  pie  crust. 

PASTRY  {SUET). 
(Very  good  for  hot  tarts  and  pies.) 

Ingredients. 

\  lb.  Flour.  A  little  Salt. 

J  lb.  Suet. 

Mix  the  flour  with  half  the  suet,  then  add  about  half  a 
pint  of  cold  water.  Roll  the  dough,  and  spread  the 
remaining  suet.  Repeat  this  three  times.  (Pound  the 
suet  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  butter,  and  spread  as  you 
would  butter,  on  puff  paste.) 

PASTRY.— See  Pie  Crust. 

PATTIES. 

(Tante  Katje's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
Cold  Meat,  minced.  Some  Lemon  Juice,  and  some  of  the 

I  slice  of  Bread  soaked  in  Milk.  Rind  rasped. 

I  Egg.  A  pinch  of  Pepper  and  Salt. 

A  little  Nutmeg. 

Take  pie  crust,  cut  into  round  shapes  by  putting  a 
small  tumbler  on  it ;  on  each  round  put  a  good  teaspoonful 
or  more  of  the  above  ingredients  well  mixed  together,  and 
cover  with  another  piece  of  crust,  brush  with  egg,  and  bake 
in  hot  oven. 

M    2 

163 


P]  PATTIES  (LOBSTER— OYSTER)— «'PAARL  LEMOEN." 

PATTIES  (LOBSTER). 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Chop  up  a  lobster  with  red  part  and  spawn ;  add 
grated  bread-crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  a  small  lump  of  butter, 
chopped  sweet  herbs.  Make  the  whole  into  a  paste  with 
the  yolk  of  one  egg ;  shape  into  little  flat  pieces  and  fry 

in    larrl   c\r  hiittf*r 


in  lard  or  butter. 


PATTIES  {OYSTEP). 


Take  potted  oyster ;  mix  in  the  liquid  a  good  lump 
of  butter,  some  salt,  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  cream. 
Put  into  little  tins  lined  with  puff  paste;  cover  with  the 
same.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


"PAARL  LEMOEN,"   OR  CAPE  SHELLFISH. 

Five  or  six  large  shellfish.  Clean  by  putting  the 
shell  in  strong  lye  (boiling  water  put  on  wood  ashes ; 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  washing  soda  will  do  as  well).  The 
shell  separates,  and  the  inside  easily  comes  out,  and  must 
then  be  rubbed  on  a  stone,  well  washed,  and  beaten  with 
a  wooden  mallet.  Put  in  a  stewing-pot  with  a  little 
butter  or  fat,  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour;  then  stir  in  a 
tea-cup  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  some 
nutmeg  and  white  pepper,  and  just  before  serving,  a  little 
salt.  Be  careful  to  stir  occasionally.  No  water  to  be 
added,  as  it  forms  a  rich  gravy  of  its  own,  but  requires  lots 
of  butter.  Ought  to  be  as  tender  as  marrow.  A  delicious 
dish. 

N.B.— The  Paarl  Lemoen,  or  Klip  Kous  ("Stone- 
stocking  ") ,  a  species  of  shellfish  found  on  many  parts  of 
the  South  African  coast,  adhering  to  the  rocks.  Tiie 
shells  are  lovely,  with  a  mother-of-pearl  lining.  The  fish 
is  most  delicious  if  properly  cooked, 

i6a 


PEARS  (STEWED)— PICKLE  (CABBAGE).  [P 


PEARS  {STEWED). 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe.) 

For  every  pound  of  pears  take  half  a  pound  of  sugar  (soft 
white)  to  make  a  syrup,  taking  the  same  quantity  of  water 
as  sugar.  Boil  till  clear,  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  pears ; 
cover  the  stewing-pan  close.  Then  boil  briskly  at  first, 
then  moderately,  for  four  or  five  hours.  Add  the  juice 
and  peel  of  a  lemon ;  when  nearly  done,  a  glass  of  dark 
wine.    Excellent, 

PEAS  {GREEN),   TO  BOIL. 

Shell  your  peas  as  soon  as  you  have  gathered  them  (if 
possible).  For  a  large  vegetable  dish  of  peas  take  a  quart 
of  water,  into  which  put  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  small  piece 
of  vegetable  charcoal.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  if  young 
and  fresh,  in  an  of  en  saucepan.  When  tender  drain  through 
a  colander,  and  put  into  a  dish  with  a  piece  of  butter, 
and  if  the  peas  have  been  gathered  some  time  before 
being  shelled  they  will  have  lost  their  sweetness,  in  which 
case  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Shake  well  together  in 
the  dish,  and  keep  the  dish  on  the  top  of  the  saucepan 
for  five  minutes  to  melt  the  butter  and  sugar  belore 
serving. 

PICKLE  {CABBAGE). 
(An  old  Dutch  Recipe.) 

Take  cabbage  cut  in  small  pieces ;  green  "  mealies  " 
(heads  of  Indian  corn)  in  rings ;  tiny  carrots,  green  grapes, 
small  onions,  green  apples  cut  in  strips.  Sprinkle  well  with 
salt  in  an  earthen  basin  for  a  night.  Dry  two  or  three 
days.  Then  take  onions,  cut  in  rings  (about  half  a  pound 
to  every  three  pounds  of  the  other  ingredients),  fry  in  a 
pan,  with  olive  oil,  to  a  light  brown.  Take  one  cup  of 
bruised  ginger  (dried  ginger,  not  ground  fine,  but  just 
crushed  in  a  mortar),  a  few  spoonfuls  of  turmeric,  one  cup 
of  sugar ;  mix  with  three  bottles  of  vinegar.    Let  it  boil| 

165 


P]  PICKLE  (PEACH)— PIE  CRUST. 


then  add  cabbage  and  all  the  other  ingredients  ;  let  the 
whole  boil  for  an  hour.  Put  into  stone  jars,  and  cork. 
Wi/l  keep  for  years. 

Unripe  peaches,  cut  in  quarters,  sprinkled  with  salt, 
and  dried,  make  a  most  delicious  pickle  with  the  same 
sauce. 

Another  similar  recipe  adds  two  ounces  of  coriander 
seed  and  two  ounces  of  mustard  to  the  sauce. 


PICKLE  (PEACH). 
(Mrs.  Jackson's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

2  lb.  Dried  Peaches,  soaked  in  vinegar  i  tablespoonful  of  Coriander  Seeds. 

for  a  night.  2  oz.  of  Curry  Powder. 

6  Large  Onions,  fried  a  light  brown  6  large  pieces  of  Ginger. 

colour  in  Lucca  oil.  1  tablespoonful  of  Mustard  Seed*. 

\  lb.  Brown  Sugar.  6  Red  Chillies  (cut  up). 

J  lb.  Salt.  I  tablespoonful  of  Pepper. 

Crush  all  the  spices.  Boil  all  the  ingredients  in  three 
quarts  of  good  vinegar  till  the  peaches  are  nice  and  soft 
Cork  when  cold. 


PIE  CRUST.— See  Pastry. 

PIE  CRUST. 
(Good  Home  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  Finest  Flour.  J  lb.  Lard,  or  Sheep-tafl  Fat 

f  lb.  Butter.  ij  teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

Some  Milk  and  Water. 

Rub  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour ;  mix  the  lard  by 
rubbing  into  the  flour,  then  mix  the  flour  with  milk  and 
water  very  lightly,  to  the  consistency  of  dongh—not  too 
stiff;  then  roll  out  thinly,  spread  butter  all  over,  dust  with 
flour,  roll  out  again.  Repeat  the  process  till  all  the  butter 
is  used, 

166 


PIE  CRUST— PIE   (OLD-FASHIONED   DUTCH).        [P 


PIE  CRUST. 
(j1/y' Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Floui'.  I  tea-cup  of  Cream. 

h  lb.  Butter.  r\  teaspoonfuls  of  Bakine  Powder. 

Jib.  Lard.  Cold  Water. 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  lard  dry,  then 
moisten  with  cream  and  water,  roll  out  and  spread  with 
butter  twice.  This  makes  most  deliciously  light  puff 
paste.     £ake  in  a  quick  oven. 


PIE  CRUST  {CHEAP). 

Ingredients. 

a  cups  of  Flour.  i  teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  Lard.  mixed  with  i  pint  of  Cold  Wi>lci. 

Mix  all  together  and  roll  out. 


PIE  {OLD-FASHIONED  DUTCH). 

(« Ouderwetsc  Pasty."       Mrs.  J.  Cloete.) 

Ingredients. 

t  Chicken.  Juice  of  a  Lemon. 

a  Onions.  i  glass  of  Wliite  Wine. 

I  blade  of  MmK  A  little  Sago  and  Vermicelli. 

Salt.  s  Hard-boiled  Eggs. 

A  little  Pepper.  A  few  slices  of  Ham, 

a  oz.  Butter.  A  few  Allspice. 

Take  a  chicken,  joint  and  cut  into  pieces,  put  into  a 
stewing-pan  with  one  white  onion,  about  a  pint  of  broth, 
or  water,  a  wineglass  of  white  wine ;  put  about  five  all- 
spice, a  blade  of  mace,  and  twelve  peppercorns  into  a  little 
muslin  bag,  and  add ;  let  the  chicken  simmer  in  this  for 
half  an  hour,  then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  vermicelli,  one 
spoonful  of  sago,  a  good  lump  of  butter ;  stir  carefully,  as 
the  sago  and  vermicelli  are  apt  to  burn.  Just  before 
taking  out  of  the  saucepan,  whip  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with 

i«7 


P]  PIE  (FISH— MACARONI). 


the  juice  of  a  lemon,  stir  in  with  the  chicken  j  it  thickens  the 
gravy,  and  gives  a  nice  creamy  look.  Let  this  cool,  then 
put  into  a  pie-dish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  and  ham 
between,  and  make  a  few  little  balls  of  butter  and  flour 
rolled  together,  and  put  in  the  pie-dish.  Cover  with  pie 
crust  nicely  rolled  and  ornamented.  Brush  with  yolk  of 
egg  mixed  with  milk.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  one  and 
a  half  hours. 

Note. — If  the  chicken  is  very  tender,  it  can  be  put  into 
the  pie-dish  uncooked,  and  will  be  equally  nice,  but  will 
take  much  longer  to  bake.  The  old  Dutch  way  is  to  have 
the  meat  parboiled. 

P/£  (FISH). 
(A  Cape  Dish.) 

Ingredients. 

Remains  of  Cold  Boiled  Fisfi.  Tomato  Sauce. 

2  Onions  fried  in  butter  or  fat.  Maslied  Potatoes. 

Pepper,  Salt,  Mustard.  i  Egg. 

Clear  the  fish  from  the  bones,  and  break  into  little 
pieces ;  mix  well  with  the  onion,  seasoning,  butter,  tomato 
^auce,  half  the  egg,  and  a  little  of  the  mashed  potatoes ; 
pack  in  the  buttered  pie-dish,  lay  the  potatoes  on  the  top, 
.arush  with  the  egg.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Vetygood. 


PIE  (MACARONI). 

Ingredients. 

itt    . 

[  pmt  of  Milk.  Jib.  Grated  Cheese. 


Jib.  MacaronL  i  teaspoonful  of  Mustawl. 

4  pint  of  Milk.  Jib.  Grated  Che 

I  tablespoonful  of  Butter.  }  lb.  Puff  Paste. 


Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  water  till 
quite  soft,  then  pour  off  the  water;  add  a  cup  of  milk, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese,  butter,  and  mustard, 
salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  white  pepper.  Let  it  boil  for 
a  minute,  then  bake  in  a  buttered  dish,  or  one  lined  with 
puff  paste. 
i68 


PIE  (PIGEON— STEAK— VEAL  KIDNEY)  [P 


PIE  (PIGEON). 

Ingredients. 
4  Young  IHgeons.  i  glass  of  "Vnia. 

Pepper,  Salt,  Gravy.  s  oz.  Butter, 

Lay  a  rim  of  paste  round  the  sides  and  edges  of  a  pie- 
dish.  After  the  pigeons  are  cleaned,  halve  them ;  season 
as  you  would  any  other  pie;  a  few  slices  of  ham,  some 
hard-boiled  eggs,  a  cup  of  good  stock  or  gravy.  Covei 
with  puff  paste ;  ornament  the  top,  and  stick  four  of  the 
little  feet  out  of  it.  Brush  over  with  egg  and  milk,  bake 
an  hour  and  a  half,  with  a  buttered  paper  if  the  oven  ia 
very  hot,  over  the  pie  crust  to  prevent  its  burning. 

(Pigeons  at  the  Cape  are  very  plentiful,  and  are  very 
good  roasted  or  stewed.) 

PIE  (STEAK). 

Cut  a  steak  into  thin  slices,  sprinkle  with  parsley, 
mushroom,  and  onion ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
rubbing  in  the  seasoning  well  on  both  sides  ;  roll  up  each 
slice  of  beef,  put  into  a  saucepan  on  a  layer  of  bacon,  and 
put  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  rolls.  Simmer  gently 
with  the  lid  on  till  tender;  put  into  a  pie-dish  with  a 
layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  cover  with  a  good  crust.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  one  hour  and  a  half 

PIE  (VEAL  KIDNEY). 

Mince  a  couple  of  veal  kidneys  with  the  fat ;  season 
with  nicely  chopped  herbs,  cloves,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
salt ;  a  little  chopped  celery  may  be  added ;  four  or  five 
hard-boiled  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  a  wine- 
glass of  white  wine,  and  a  little  stock.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether, cover  with  crust.     Bake  for  two  hours. 

PIES. — N.B. — All  meat  pies  with  pastry  crust  should  have  a  hole 
left  in  the  top  of  the  crust,  or  it  should  be  pricked  over  with  a  fork,  to 
let  the  steam  escape  during  the  baking,  otherwise  it  is  unwholesome. 
It  is  with  the  object  of  biduig  the  bole  that  a  pastry  ornament  is  usual 
at  the  top  of  a  pie. 

«69 


P]  PIGGIE,  OR  SUCKING-PIG-POLISH. 


PIGGIE,  OR  SUCKING-PIG. 
(A  very  favourite  Cape  Dish.) 

When  the  piggie  has  been  well  cleaned  and  washed, 
make  a  stuffing  of  bread-crumbs,  suet,  some  dried  sage 
leaves,  pepper,  salt,  lemon-peel.  If  eggs  are  plentiful,  then 
moisten  with  an  egg  and  some  water.  Stuff  the  pig,  sew 
up  with  strong  thread  j  truss  it  as  a  hare  is  trussed,  with 
its  fore-legs  skewered  back  and  its  hind-legs  forward.  Lay 
it  on  a  trivet,  in  a  dripping-pan,  with  a  pint  of  water  in 
the  pan.  Rub  the  piggie  all  over  with  butter  (or  sheep- 
tail  fat),  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven.     Will  take  two  hours. 

I  have  heard  that  rubbing  the  piggie  all  over  with  the 
white  of  egg,  before  roasting,  makes  it  nice  and  crisp. 

"POFFERTJESr—See  Note  at  end  of  P,  p.  19&. 

POLISH  FOR  FLOORS. 
(Home  Recipe.) 

If  your  floors  are  white,  scrub  and  scour  well  with 
strong  soda ;  stain  with  oak  staining  or  vandyke  brown, 
which  can  be  ground  in  water  and  mixed  with  a  little  size. 
Go  over  the  boards  twice ;  let  the  floor  get  quite  dry,  then 
polish  with  beeswax  and  turpentine.  Scrape  the  bees- 
wax and  any  remains  of  sperm  candles  in  a  round  basin. 
Cover  the  wax  with  spirits  of  turpentine ;  leave  all  night. 
The  next  day  the  wax  will  be  dissolved,  and  the  mixture 
have  a  creamy  appearance.  Rub  well  into  the  boards  with 
a  piece  of  flannel,  and  polish  by  friction.  A  soft  linen 
cloth  gives  a  better  polish  than  flannel.  When  done  three 
times,  an  ordinary  deal  floor  will  have  a  beautiful  polished 
surface; 

POLISH   (FOR   CLEANING  AND    POLISHING    COVERS 
AND  TINS). 

Shred  half  a  pound  of  blue  mottled  soap  in  a  jug ;  add 
half  a  cup  of  finely  powdered  whiting,  pour  in  sufficient 
water  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Rub  well 
over  the  covers,  and  polish  with  &  clean  leather  and 
powdered  whiting. 
[70 


POLISH  (TO  RESTORE   FRENCH)— PORRIDGE.      [P 


POLISH  (TO  RESTORE  FRENCH  POUSH). 

Ingredients. 

I  pint  Linseed  Oil.  i  oz.  Hartshorn. 

4  oz.  Spirits  of  Wine,  3  oz.  Gum  Arabic. 

6  oz .  Vinegar.  Wtiites  of  s  Eggs. 

The  two  last  ingredients  to  be  rubbed  together  in  a 
mortar,  and  the  whole  well  mixed. 


POLISH  {FOR  FURNITURE  AND  FLOORS). 
(Mrs.  G.  Bateson.) 

Ingredients. 

3  oz,  common  Beeswax.  i  oz.  Curd  Soap  or  Castile  Soap. 

I  oz.  White  Wax.  i  pint  Turpentine. 

I  pint  Boiled  Water. 

Cut  up  the  wax  and  soap,  dissolve,  when  cold  add 
turpentine.  Shake  the  mixture  frequently.  In  forty-eight 
hours  it  will  be  ready  for  use.     Very  good, 

ANOTHER. 

Equal  quantities  of  sweet  oil,  vinegar,  and  turpentine, 
used  sparingly  on  a  damp  flannel  once  a  week,  and  rubbed 
off  with  a  linen  duster. 

ANOTHER. 

Ingredients. 
I  pint  Linseed  Oil.  i  pint  Vinegar. 

I  pint  Spirits  of  Wine. 

Shake  well.  Do  not  spare  elbow  grease,  which  is  the 
most  important  of  all. 

PORRIDGE  (FOR  BREAKFAST). 

Ingredients. 

s  oz.  OatmeaL  I  pint  of  Water. 

i  pint  New  Milk. 

Put  a  pint  of  cold  water  into  a  stewpan  over  the  fire ;  as 
it  boils  dredge  in  the  oatmeal  with  your  left  hand,  and  stir 

171 


P]         POT-POURRI— POTATOES  (HOW  TO  BOIL). 


with  your  right.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes.  When  it  is 
made,  send  it  to  table  in  a  soup-plate.  To  be  eaten  with 
a  little  salt  or  sugar.  Hand  round  with  it  a  jug  of  hot  or 
cold  milk,  or  cream. 

POT-POURRI. 
(A  Home  Recipe.) 

Ingredunts. 

Rose  Leaves,  as  many  as  you  can  a  oz.  of  Orris  Raot. 

collect.  Cardamoms. 

Scented  Verbena  Leaves.  2  oz.  Bay  Salt. 

Lavender.  2  oz.  Saltpetre. 

A  few  Bay  Leaves.  i  oz.  Cloves. 

Some  Nutmeg  and  Cinnamon, 

The  Odorata  rose  and  other  sweet-scented  ones,  freshly 
gathered  (but  be  careful  no  dew  is  on  them),  the  verbena, 
lavender  seeds,  and  leaves,  put  in  a  wide-mouthed  jar  in 
layers  sprinkled  with  the  salt,  saltpetre,  and  the  spices 
well  bruised.  Stir  the  contents  of  the  jar  occasionally. 
This  will  retain  its  scent  for  years,  and  may  be  freshened 
up  whenever  roses  and  other  scented  flowers  are  in  season — 
clove,  carnations,  etc.  At  the  Cape  there  is  a  very  sweet- 
scented  pink  rose,  almost  single,  called  the  French,  brought 
to  the  Cape  by  the  Huguenot  refugees,  and  also  Capse  rose, 
which  give  a  most  delicious  scent  to  the  pot-pourri.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  water  be  spilt  on  the  pot-pourri — it  would 
spoil  it  completely. 


POTATOES  {HOW  TO  BOIL) 

Put  your  potatoes  into  boiling  water  with  a  good  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  boil  for  twenty  minutes ;  when  soft 
which  can  be  felt  easily  by  pricking  with  a  fork,  throw 
the  water  off,  put  the  potatoes  back  (if  with  their  jackets 
on)  into  the  saucepan,  putting  the  pot  on  the  stove  for  a 
few  minutes  till  the  skins  burst.  If  the  potatoes  are  peeled 
leave  them  in  the  colander  on  the  steam  ;  toss  them,  and 
send  them  in  looking  nice  and  mealy.  The  Dutch  people 
serve  boiled  potatoes  with  a  little  melted  butter. 

17a 


POTATOES  (SAVOURY)— PRESERVE.  [P 


POTATOES  {SAVOURY). 

(Mrs.  Manuel's  Recipe.) 

Bake  yonr  potatoes,  then  cut  in  half  and  scoop  out  the 
iii'side,  which  mix  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  onion, 
nutmeg,  cheese,  pepper,  and  salt ;  put  back  into  the  skins, 
e^g  and  bread-crumb  the  tops,  brown  them  and  serve  hot. 


"SWEET  POTATOES"  STEWED  AS  A    VEGETABLE. 

Peel  and  slice  about  four  or  five  pounds  of  "sweet 
potatoes";  take  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  spoonful  of  flour,  a 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Lay  the  sliced  sweet 
potatoe  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  in  layers,  sprinkled  with 
sugar,  butter,  and  flour,  and  when  you  have  put  in  the 
last  layer  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  water.  Let  it  all  stew 
gently,  giving  the  pot  a  stir  occasionally. 

To  those  who  like  sweet  things  with  meat  this  is  very 
iKuch  liked. 

Boiling  them  in  water  with  their  jackets  on,-  peeled 
before  serving,  and  cut  in  slices,  with  melted  butter,  is 
another  good  way  of  cooking  "  sweet  potatoes." 


PRESERVE. 

See  Marmalade,  Jam,  "  Naartje  Comfyt,"  Apricots  Salted  (Mebos), 
Grapes  in  Brandy. 


PRESERVE  {GREEN  APRICOT). 
(An  old  Constantia  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
loo  green  or  unripe  Apricots.  Their  weight  in  Sugar. 

Prick  the  fruit  with  a  steel  pin,  lay  them  in  a  deep 
dish,  sprinkle    some    s^lt    9ver  them   (about  a  dessert- 

173 


P]  PRESERVE  (RIPE  APRICOT— IN  BRANDY). 

spoonful),  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  cover  with  green 
vine-leaves  (this  keeps  them  green),  lay  a  plate  on  the  top; 
Now  proceed  to  make  the  syrup,  taking  a  cup  of  water 
to  a  cup  of  sugar.  When  it  is  boiled  and  clarified,  take 
the  apricots  out  of  the  salt  water,  wash  them,  and  pour 
the  boiling  syrup  over  them.  LeaVe  for  a  night  like  this. 
The  next  day  preserve  by  gently  simmering  till  the  fruit 
is  nice  and  clear. 


PRESERVE  {RIPE  APRICOT). 
(Old  Dutch  Recipe.) 

Apricots  can  only  be  preserved  by  pouring  boiling 
syrup  over  them,  for  ten  days,  boiling  the  syrup  every 
day ;  the  syrup  to  be  made  of  sugar,  the  same  weight  as 
the  fruit.  On  the  tenth  day  make  a  fresh  thick  syrup; 
put  the  apricots  in  a  wide-mouthed  jar,  pour  the  thick 
boiling  syrup  over  them,  and  cork  well. 


PRESERVE  (APRICOTS  IN  BRANDY). 
(Miss  De  Wet's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
61b.  of  Ripe  Apricots  or  Peaches.  sj  lb.  Sugar  (boiled  to  a  thick  syrup). 

Wipe  your  fruit  very  clean,  prick  with  a  steel  pin ;  pack 
the  apricots  or  peaches  in  a  jar.  Take  one  tea-cup  of 
thick  syrup  and  one  tea-cup  of  brandy,  mix  well,  and 
pour  over  each  layer  of  fruit  as  you  put  them  in  your 
jar;  when  filled,  put  a  paper  between  the  top  of  the  jar 
and  lid  ;  set  the  jar  in  a  saucepan  of  water,  and  let  it  heat 
to  near  boiling  point,  then  remove  the  paper  and  lid,  and 
when  cold  cork  well.  If  the  lid  is  one  that  screws  on,  no 
bladder  is  necessary.  Apricots  and  the  "  Pavia  "  peaches 
are  best  done  this  way,  and  the  yellow  peach  with  Mrs. 
Cloete's  recipe. 

174 


PRESERVE  (CITRON— FIG).  [P 


PRESERVE  {CITRON). 
(From  my  Grandmother's  Recipe  Book.    Dutch.) 

Scrape  the  rind,  cut  in  halves,  take  out  the  pulp,  lay 
them  in  a  basin  of  hot  water  to  which  a  handful  of  salt 
was  added ;  change  the  water  the  next  day,  then  leave  for 
two  days  longer  in  water ;  after  that,  boil  them  in  clean 
water  till  soft  enough  to  put  a  reed  through.  Press  all  the 
water  out  carefully,  laying  on  a  cloth  to  cool.  For  each 
pound  of  fruit  take  two  of  sugar ;  make  a  syrup  of  the 
sugar  (one  cup  of  water  for  a  cup  of  sugar),  clarify  with 
an  egg.  Boil  for  two  days  on  a  slow  fire.  Keep  well 
corked  in  glass  bottles. 

PRESERVE  (FIG). 
(Old  Cape  Recipe.) 

To  preserve  white  figs  whole,  take  them  nearly  ripe, 
peel  thinly,  but  leave  the  stalks  on;  lay  for  a  night  in 
lime  water,  the  next  morning  prick  with  a  needle.  Take 
the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar,  make  a  thick  syrup,  taking 
less  water  than  cups  of  sugar ;  lay  the  figs  in  the  syrup, 
boil  gently  till  the  figs  are  transparent  and  the  syrup  thick. 

ANOTHER  FIG  PRESERVE. 
(From  a  very  old  Cape  Recipe  Book.    Dutch.) 

Scrape  unripe  figs,  cut  a  slit  across  the  top  (not  to0 
large),  lay  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  in  which  has  been  put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lime  (this  quantity  to  lOO  figs).  Lay 
a  plate,  with  a  weight  on  it,  on  the  top  of  the  figs,  or  they 
will  drift  on  the  water.  About  twelve  hours  after,  take 
out,  wash  clean.  Have  ready  a  saucepan  in  which  you 
have  about  three  quarts  of  clean  water,  one  teaspoonful  of 
carbonate  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Let  the  figs 
boil  up  in  this,  taking  care  to  leave  the  saucepan  open. 
Take  out  when  soft  enough  to  be  easily  pierced  with  a 
reed ;  drain  through  a  colander,  or  on  a  cloth.    Take  two 


P]  PRESERVE   (RIPE  FIG— RIPE  MELON). 

pounds  of  sugar  more  than  the  weight  of  fruit,  make  a 
clear  syrup  (one  cup  of  water  to  one  of  sugar) ;  when 
strained  and  cool,  lay  your  figs  in  it  for  a  night,  the  next 
day  preserve  on  a  slow  fire  till  the  fruit  is  quite  clear. 
Cork  in  small  jars.    Time,  three  or  four  hours.    Very  good. 

PRESERVE  {RIPE  FIG). 

Take  six  pounds  of  ripe  figs,  lay  them  for  a  few  hours 
in  lime  water  (two  spoonfuls  of  lime  to  a  basin  of  water) ; 
take  six  pounds  of  sugar,  boil  a  clear  syrup ;  alter  strain- 
ing, let  it  boil  till  thick  before  adding  the  figs  ;  then 
preserve  for  two  hours  longer,  slowly,  till  the  figs  look 
clear.     Cork.      Will  keep  well. 

PRESERVE  i^' HOTTENTOT  FIG,"   OR  "SOUR  FIG"). 

Lay  the  "  figs"  in  boiling  water  till  the  hard  skin  is  soft 
and  will  peel  off  easily.  Take  the  weight  of  fruit  in  sugar, 
and  boil  a  syrup.  Put  the  fruit  (after  carefully  peeling 
and  cutting  off  the  hard  part  at  the  bottom)  into  the  syrup, 
and  preserve  slowly. 

(The  Hottentot  fig  is  the  fruit  of  a  kind  of  mesem* 
bryanthemum  which  grows  wild  at  the  Cape.) 

PRESERVE  {RIPE  MELON). 
(A  very  old  Cape  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

8  lbs.  of  Sugar,  boiled  with  the  same  6  lbs.  of  Melon,  ripe, 

quantity  of  Water  into  a  Syrup  i  oz.  of  White  Ginger, 

clarified  with  an  Egg. 

Take  a  large  ripe  melon  (not  too  soft) ;  cut  into  large 
slices  ;  prick  with  a  fork,  peeling  the  slices  very  thinly  and 
removing  the  seeds.  Lay  the  pieces  in  a  basin,  cover 
with  cold  water,  in  which  is  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  put 
a  plate  on  the  top  to  keep  the  pieces  under  water.  Let  it 
remain  in  water  four  or  five  days  ;  then  wash  it  carefully; 
put  the  fruit  into  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  up  once ; 
17$ 


PRESERVE  (WATER  MELON  PEEL— MELON).       [P 

lay  the  slices  of  melon  on  a  cloth  to  drain.  Now  boil  the 
syrup,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  slices  of  melon, 
repeating  this  process  every  morning  for  a  week  ;  the  last 
two  days  put  the  slices  of  melon  in  the  preserving  pot  in 
which  you  heat  the  syrup,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  ten 
minutes  or  more,  then  let  it  cool.  Repeat  the  next  day,  and 
go  on  till  the  fruit  is  quite  clear  and  firm,  and  the  syrup 
nice  and  thick.  This  process  diminishes  the  syrup  greatly, 
and  you  might  make  a  little  more  if  necessary.  This  mode 
of  making  preserve  is  rather  tedious,  but  repays  one  for  the 
trouble ;  it  will  keep  for  years,  and  becomes  beautifully 
clear  and  quite  firm.  (The  ginger  to  be  put  in  a  muslin 
bag,  and  boiled  with  the  preserve,  and  taken  out  the  last 
thing.) 

PRESERVE  {WATER  MELON  PEEL). 

Cut  the  water  melon  peel  in  pieces ;  cut  ofif  the  outer 
green  peel  and  all  the  soft  inside,  cutting  away  all  the  red 
part ;  then  cut  into  square  pieces  or  shapes,  prick  well 
with  a  fork ;  lay  the  pieces  in  an  earthen  basin  in  lime 
water — two  spoonfuls  of  lime  to  four  quarts  of  water.  Put 
a  plate  on  the  top  to  keep  it  under  water ;  leave  all  night ; 
wash  well  in  cold  water  next  morning;  put  in  some  cold 
water ;  let  it  boil  till  you  can  put  a  stick  into  it ;  now 
drain.  Having  previously  weighed  the  peel,  take  the  same 
weight  in  sugar  ;  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  a  layer  of 
peel  and  a  layer  of  sugar,  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon,  two  or 
three  cups  of  water ;  close  the  lid  of  the  stewpan  ;  let  it 
simmer  till  the  sugar  is  melted,  then  preserve  gently  (take 
the  lid  off  if  there  is  a  good  quantity  of  syrup).  If  the 
water  melon  was  an  "  American  Ice  Cream,"  it  will  preserve 
in  two  or  three  hours,  urd  be  beautifully  crisp  and  soft, 
almost  melting  in  your  -:^outh.  Four  or  six  cloves  to  be 
put  into  the  preserve. 

PRESERVE  (MELON). 

Made  in  the  same  way,  only  take  green  melons,  while 
the  water  melon  peel  preserve  should  be  from  a  ripe  one. 

N 

177 


P]  PRESERVE  (SEVILLE  ORANGE— PEACHES). 


PRESERVE  {SEVILLE  OR  BITTER   ORANGE). 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe.) 

Scrape  the  rind  with  a  blunt  knife  or  piece  of  glass. 
Cut  four  small  incisions  at  the  bottom ;  put  them  in  water 
for  four  days,  changing  the  water  daily.  Boil  the  oranges 
until  soft,  putting  them  into  boiling  water.  Squeeze  them 
out  well.  Have-  ready  the  syrup — for  twelve  pounds  of 
fruit  eighteen  pounds  of  sugar.  Let  the  oranges  lie  for  a 
night  in  syrup  before  preserving.  (Similar  to  recipe  for 
"  Naartje  Comfyf') 

PRESERVE  {PEACHES  IN  BRANDY), 
(Mrs.  H.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
ISO  Peiches.  8  lb.  Sugar. 

3  bottles  of  White  Spirits  of  Wine. 

The  yellow  or  apricot  peaches  are  generally  used. 
Make  a  thin  syrup  of  half  the  sugar  (four  pounds).  Peel 
and  prick  the  peaches  ;  boil  fifty  at  a  time  in  the  syrup  till 
nearly  soft;  of  the  remaining  sugar  make  a  very  thick 
syrup.  Take  three  cups  of  this  and  two  cups  of  spirits  of 
wine.  Put  the  preserved  peaches  in  glass  jars;  pour  the 
mixture  over  and  cork  at  once. 

Should  a  smaller  quantity  of  peaches  be  made,  the  same 
syrup  in  which  the  peaches  were  boiled  might  be  mixed 
with  the  spirits  of  wine,  only  boiled  till  very  thick. 

PRESERVE  {WHOLE  PEACHES). 
(Mrs.  Henry  Cloete's  old  Cape  Mode.) 

Take  ripe  "  Clingstone  "  peaches,  peel  very  thinly,  prick 
well.  Lay  them  in  a  large  basin  of  water  into  which  two 
spoonfuls  of  lime  have  been  thrown  (if  you  have  no  lime  at 
hand,  a  handful  of  kitchen  salt  will  do  as  well ;  the  effect 
is  to  harden  the  outside  of  the  fruit.)  Leave  the  peaches 
for  an  hour  or  two  in  this.  Weigh  the  fruit  before  you  put 
173 


PRESERVE   (QUINCES— TOMATO).  [P 

ft  in  the  lime-water ;  for  twelve  pounds  of  fruit  take  ten 
pounds  of  sugar.  Wash  the  peaches  in  clean  water ;  oil 
your  preserving  pan  with  olive  oil.  Put  alternate  layers  of 
fruit  and  sugar,  and  pour  about  two  or  three  cups  of  cold 
water  over ;  preserve  with  the  lid  on  the  pot  for  about  an 
hour  on  rather  a  quick  fire,  then  let  it  stew  very  gently 
till  the  syrup  is  thick  and  the  fruit  looks  clear ;  skim 
occasionally.     Cork  when  cool.     Wi/l  keep  well. 

Ordinary  white  crystallised  sugar  or  light  yellow  gives 
a  nice  colour. 

PRESERVE  {QUINCES). 

(Hilda's  Recipe.) 

Peel  and  cut  the  quinces  (large  ones)  in  four  pieces ; 
carefully  core  and  cut  out  all  the  hard  inside.  Lay  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  with  a  handful  of  salt. 
Boil  quickly  till  soft  (for  about  ten  minutes),  then  drain 
carefully.  The  weight  of  the  quinces  after  they  are  peeled 
in  sugar.  Take  the  peels  and  cores  and  pips,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  boil  well,  and  strain  ;  of  this  juice  take  as 
many  basins  as  sugar.  Lay  the  quinces  in  a  preserving- 
pan  covered  with  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  the  skins  and 
cores ;  preserve  gently  till  the  pieces  are  quite  clear,  and 
the  juice  forms  a  jelly  when  cold.  This  preserve  served 
with  whipped  cream  is  most  delicious. 

PRESERVE  (QUINCE). 

(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Book.) 

Peel  and  cut  quinces  in  thin  slices,  let  them  dry  a 
little ;  the  next  day  preserve  in  thick  syrup,  two  pounds  of 
■ugar  more  than  the  weight  of  fruit. 

PRESERVE  (TOMATO). 

Take  six  pounds  of  small  preserving  tomatoes ;  prick 
them  with  a  steel  pin,  and  lay  them  in  saltpetre  water 

N  2 

179 


P]  PRESERVE   (TOMATO)— PUDDINGS. 

(a  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre  in  three  quarts  of  water)  for 
ten  minutes.  Wash  clean  ;  put  into  a  stewing-pan,  with 
equal  weight  of  sugar ;  add  half  an  ounce  of  dry  ginger, 
just  bruised  in  a  mortar  and  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  Let  it 
simmer  slowly  till  the  sugar  has  melted,  keeping  the  pre- 
serving-pan closed  ;  then  boil  rather  more  quickly  for  an 
hour,  till  the  tomatoes  are  clear.  Take  out  ginger  before 
corking  the  jar. 

PRESERVE  {TOMATO). 

(Mrs.  Ahren's  Recipe.) 

Take  middle-sized  fruit ;  prick  and  cut  an  incision  at 
the  bottom.  Lay  in  lime  water  for  a  night  (a  tablespoonful 
of  lime  in  two  bottles  of  water) ;  the  next  day  in  a  little 
salt  water.  Preserve  in  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Oil 
the  saucepan,  then  put  in  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar  alter- 
nately, and  boil  slowly.  Half  an  ounce  of  ginger  in  a 
muslin  bag  to  be  added  during  the  boiling,  and  taken  out 
when  done. 


PRESERVE  (GREEN  TOMATOES). 

Take  six  pounds  oi greett,  unripe  tomatoes,  eight  pounds 
of  sugar,  boiled  to  a  syrup,  and  four  lemons,  the  rind  very 
thinly  cut  and  the  juice  squeezed. 

First  boil  the  tomatoes  gently  till  quite  tender,  but 
don't  let  them  break.  In  the  water  in  which  the  fruit  is 
boiled  put  about  two  or  three  dozen  green  peach  leaves ; 
drain,  after  taking  out.  Make  a  syrup,  and  put  the  toma- 
toes in  it  cold.  Put  in  two  or  three  pieces  of  ginger  in  a 
bag  and  the  lemon-peel ;  let  it  boil  slowly  till  quite  clear, 
then  take  out  the  ginger.  Just  before  taking  the  preserve 
off  the  fire  add  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 

PRESERVES.— See  also  Jams  and  MARMALADES. 

PUDDINGS.— See  "  Chippolata,"  "Spritze,"  and  "  Poffertjes.' 
i8o 


PUDDING  (ALMOND  AND  RAISIN— BACHELOR'S).    [P 


PUDDING  (ALMOND  AND  RAISIN). 

Ingrtdients. 
*  oz.  Beef  Suet  2  oz.  Almonds, 

i  pint  Milk.  3  Eggs, 

i  lb.  Bread-crumbs.  2  tablespoonfuls  Rnm. 

{ lb.  Raisins,  2  oz.  Sugar. 

A  little  Nutmeg. 

Chop  the  suet  very  fine;  mix  with  bread-crumbs, 
currants,  nutmeg,  and  sugar.  Butter  a  mould  and  line 
it  with  raisins,  put  in  rows  all  round,  and  almonds  blanched 
and  laid  between.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  and  rum, 
and  mix  all  together;  put  carefully  in  the  mould,  and 
boil  three  hours.     Serve  with  wine  sauce. 


PUDDING  (APPLE), 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Apples.  I  Lemon, 

i  lb.  Sugar.  i  lb.  Butter. 

3  Eggs.  Puff  Paste. 

Pare  and  core  one  pound  of  apples ;  put  them  in  a 
stewing-pan,  with  sufficient  water  to  stew  them  to  a  pulp 
without  burning;  add  sugar,  grated  rind  of  lemon,  and 
three  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  all  well  together.  Just  before 
baking  stir  in  the  butter ;  line  the  dish  with  puff  paste, 
and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.     Very  good. 


PUDDING  (BACHELOR'S). 
(A  very  old  home  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

x\  cupfuls  of  Bread-GtuiDbs.  \  lb.  of  Sugar. 

3  oz.  of  Flour.  I  teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg, 

4  Eggs.  Ginger,  and  Cinnamon. 
\  lb.  of  Currants  or  Raisins.  i  teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

I  lb.  of  Suet.  Any  Candied  Preserves  cut  up. 

Mix  all  together  and  add  about  one  pint  of  buttermilk  ; 
if  not  to  be  had,  use  sweet  milk,  in  which  case  substitute 
baking  powder  for  soda.  Boil  three  or  four  hours.  Serve 
with  wiae  sauce. 

181 


PI       PUDDING  (BROWN— BONNIE'S— BEEF  STEAK). 


PUDDING  {BROWN). 

(Mrs.  Burrel's  Recipe.) 

Two  eggs,  their  weight  in  flour  and  butter,  the  weight 
of  one  in  sugar.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  with  sugar ; 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  stir  in  the  flour,  then  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  jam  or  fruit  jelly;  before  putting  the  pudding 
in  a  mould,  stir  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda. 
Boil  or  steam  for  an  hour  and  three-quarters  ;  allow  plenty 
of  room  for  the  pudding  to  rise  in  mould.  Serve  with 
wine  or  sweet  sauce.  Golden  syrup  may  be  substituted 
for  jam. 

PUDDING  {BONNIE'S). 

Ingredients. 

ilb.  Butter,  stirred  to  a  cieam.         3  Eggs,  yolks  and  whites  ceparateljr 
}  lb.  Sifted  Sugar.  whisked. 

J  lb.  Flour.  J  lb.  Raisins,  split  and  stoned. 

Flavour  with  Vanilla  or  Lemon  Essence. 

Mix  sugar  and  butter,  then  the  yolks,  lastly  flour,  and 
whites,  and  raisins.  Boil  two  hours  in  a  buttered  mould. 
Ver}i  good. 

PUDDING  {BEEF  STEAK). 

Ingredients. 

lib.  Flour.  lilb.  Beefsteak, 

i  lb.  Suet.  Water  enough  to  make  into  a  past* 

Teaspoonful  of  Salt.  the  consistency  of  ordinary  dough. 

Pepper,  Salt. 

Line  a  buttered  basin  with  the  suet  crust,  half  an  inch 
thick ;  cut  the  steaks  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  beat  them 
with  a  kitchen  mallet;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
sprinkling  of  flour  ;  lay  them  in  the  basin,  interspersed 
with  some  fat  of  the  beef,  add  a  glass  or  less  of  cold  water; 
cover  the  top  with  the  remainder  of  the  paste,  press  well 
down  with  the  thumb  ;  boil  in  a  floured  pudding-cloth  for 
three  hours.     Turn  out  carefully  on  a  dish. 

Mutton  or  lamb  pudding  is  done  in  the  same  way, 
only  add  a  tiny  piece  of  finely  shred  onion  and  parsley. 
182 


PUDDING  (BREAD  AND  BUTTER— BUTTER-MILK).  [P 


PUDDING  (BREAD  AND  BUTTER). 
(Recipe  from  Dutch  family  cookery  book,  over  one  hundred  years  old.) 

Take  a  small  loaf  of  white  bread,  cut  very  thin,  and 
butter  each  slice,  and  soak  in  milk;  carefully  butter  a 
pudding-dish,  lay  the  soaked  bread  and  butter  in  layers  in 
the  dish,  sprinkling  over  each  layer  some  almonds  blanched 
and  sliced,  some  slices  of  citron  preserve,  some  sugar,  and 
currants,  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full ;  then  whisk  up  four 
eggs  with  a  spoonful  of  rose-water  and  a  quart  of  boiled 
milk,  and  pour  into  the  dish.  In  the  process  of  baking  it 
may  become  dry;  pour  some  more  milk  and  egg  over  it, 
if  all  was  not  required  to  fill  the  pudding-dish. 

The  oven  must  not  be  too  hot. 


PUDDING  {BOILED  BUTTER-MILK). 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  of  Flour.  I  tablespoonful  of  Butts. 

i\  pints  ot  Butter-milk.  2  Eggs. 

\  lb.  of  Beef  Suet.  i  teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

Flavour  with  Essence  of  Almonds. 

Cut  the  suet  very  fine,  melt  the  butter,  mix  with  the 
suet  and  flour,  beat  the  eggs,  mix  all  together;  don't 
forget  a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  for  two  hours  in  a  cloth  or 
mould.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 


PUDDING  {BAKED  BUTTER-MILK). 

Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pie-dish ;  mix  a  batter 
of  half  a  pound  of  flour  and  one  pint  of  butter-milk,  two 
eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  flavour  with  ginger  or 
almonds  ;  pour  into  the  dish.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Serve 
at  once  with  crystallised  sugar. 

l»3 


P]   PUDDING  (CANARY— CARROT— CASTLE— CHEESE). 


PUDDING  {CANARY). 
(Mrs.  J.  Van  der  Byl's  Recipe.) 

Take  three  eggs,  also  the  weight  of  three  eggs  In  sugar 
and  butter,  and  of  two  eggs  in  fiourj  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
grated.  Stir  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  sugar  and  eggs 
(well  whisked)  gradually;  dredge  in  the  flour.  When 
mixed  thoroughly,  pour  into  a  buttered  mould.  Boil  two 
hours.  Serve  with  any  sweet  sauce.  Enough  for  six 
people, 

fUDDING  {CARROT). 
(Cape  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  Flour.  i  lb.  Beef  Suet 

*  lb.  Grated  Carrots.  3  Eggs. 

4  lb.  Sugar.  Salt. 

Grated  Peel  of  Lemon  and  the  Juice,  or  Essence  of  Lemon. 

Mince  or  grate  the  carrots ;  chop  the  suet ;  whisk  the 
eggs.  Mix  all  together ;  pack  in  a  mould  or  basin ;  boil 
two  or  three  hours.  Serve  with  wine  sauce.  Enough  for 
eight  persoui, 

PUDDING  {CASTLE), 

Ingredients. 
The  weight  of  4  Eggs  in  Sugar,  Flour,  and  Butter.  4  Egg& 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream ;  then  add  sugar,  eggs  (well 
whisked),  and  flour,  a  dash  of  grated  nutmeg,  and  brandy 
for  flavouring.  Bake  in  little  tin  cups  for  twenty  minutes. 
This  quantity  fills  six  cups.     Serve  with  a  wine  sauce. 

PUDDING  {CHEESE). 
(Mrs.  D.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  of  Grated  Cheese.  i  tea-cup  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

I  Egg,  well  beaten.  A  little  Mustard. 

I  teaspoonful  of  Butter,  Cayenne  Pepper,  Salt. 

Mix  all  well  together.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  for 
twenty  minutes.    Enough  for  four  or  five  persons, 

184 


PUDDING  (CHOCOLATE— CITRON— CUSTARD).       [P 


PUDDING  {.CHOCOLATE^ 
(German  Recipe.) 

IngredwUs. 

i  lb.  Grated  Chocolate.  |  lb.  Butter. 

\  lb.  Pounded  Loaf  Sugar.  i  pint  of  MUIb 

Jib.  of  Fine  Flour. 

Mix  all  these  ingredients  and  stir  into  the  boiling 
milk ;  stir  till  the  substance  gets  loose  from  the  pot ; 
put  it  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Then  take  six  eggs ;  whisk  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately.  First  add  to  the  mixture 
the  yolks,  then,  when  well  stirred,  add  the  whites,  well 
whisked.  Put  into  a  buttered  porcelain  mould ;  boil  one 
hour  j  turn  out  and  serve.     May  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 

PUDDING  (CITRON). 
("  Klapmuts  "  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  or.  packet  Gelatine.  J  lb.  White  Sugar. 

1  cup  Light  Wine.  6  Eggs,  whislied  separately. 

Juice  of  3  Lemons  or  Oranges. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  (after  soaking)  in  a  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  lemons  or  oranges,  care- 
fully removing  the  seeds  ;  add  the  peel  of  one  orange,  cut 
very  thin,  to  the  hot  water  and  gelatine,  also  the  juice, 
one  cup  of  wine,  and  the  sugar.  Stir  all  till  it  comes  to  a 
boil.  Take  out  the  peel;  draw  aside;  pour  in  the  six 
yolks  well  whisked.  Whip  all  well  together;  put  into  a 
buttered  mould  to  set. 

PUDDING  (CUSTARD).— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

PUDDING  [CUSTARD). 
(A  favourite  Cape  Recipe.) 
Take  four  eggs ;  whisk  well  in  an  ordinary-sized  pie- 
dish;  take  either  new  or  boiled  milk;  add  two  large  spoon- 
fuls of  white  crystallised  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  vanilla 
essence.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  A  sure  way  of  pre- 
venting the  custard  from  becoming  watery  is  to  put  the  pie- 
dish  into  a  tin  with  a  little  water  whilst  baking.     Serve 

iS5 


P]  PUDDING  (DICK'S— FRUIT— JENNY  LIND). 

either  hot  or  cold.     Can  be  flavoured  with  two  bay  leaves, 
cinnamon,  or  vanilla. 

PUDDING  {DICK'S) 

Ingredients. 
4  oz.  Bread-crumbs.  3  oz.  Sugar. 

4  oz.  Currants.  3  Eggs. 

4  oz.  Apples.  A  little  CinnaraoB, 

A  little  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Mince  the  apples  very  finely;  add  currants  (well 
washed),  grated  bread-crumbs,  and  sugar.  Whisk  the 
eggs,  and  mix  all  thoroughly.  Put  the  pudding  in  a 
buttered  basin ;  tie  down  with  a  cloth  j  boil  for  three 
hours.     Sufficient  for  four  or  five  persons, 

PUDDINGS  (FRUIT). 

A  dish,  lined  with  pufif  paste,  and  filled  with  any  fruit 
that  is  in  season,  peeled,  sliced,  and  sprinkled  with  sugar, 
and  baked  gently  for  two  or  more  hours,  makes  a  nice 
dish  served  with  thin  custard,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

PUDDING  {JENNY  LIND). 

Ingredients. 

I  Lemon.  1  pint  of  Cream. 

4  Eggs.  J  cup  of  any  kind  of  Presenre, 
I  brrakfast-cup  of  White  Wine.  and  some  Whipped  Cream. 

4  Sponge  Biscuits.  s  oz.  Sugar. 

Put  the  juice  and  grated  peel  of  the  lemon  into  an 
enamelled  saucepan,  place  over  the  fire  or  stove  ;  stir  in  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  keep  over  the  fire  till  nearly 
boiling.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  whisked, 
stir  into  the  yolks,  adding  half  the  breakfast-cup  of  wine. 
Put  the  sponge  biscuits  into  a  dish,  pour  over  them  the 
other  half-cup  of  wine ;  when  soaked  lay  over  them  some 
preserve,  and  pour  the  custard  made  from  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  lemon  over  them,  then  pile  some  whipped  cream 
on  the  top.  Ornament  it  with  harlequin  comfits.  Ver^ 
good. 

i86 


PUDDING  (BAKED  LEMON— MADONNAy.  [P 


PUDDING  {AN  EXCELLENT  BAKED  LEMON). 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

»  large  Lemons.  6  oz.  Sugar. 

3  oz.  Butter.  S  Eggs. 

Take  the  peel  of  two  large  lemons,  boil  it  tender  in 
half  a  pint  of  water  and  pound  in  a  mortar  ;  add  the  juice 
and  pulp  of  the  lemons,  carefully  taking  out  the  seeds, 
three  ounces  of  butter  stirred  in  melted,  and  sugar  well 
beaten  up  first  with  the  eggs.  Line  a  dish  with  puff  paste, 
pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  for  an  hour. 


PUDDING  {MACARONI). 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  of  Macaroni;  A  wineglass  of  Brandy. 

I  quart  Milk.  Peel  of  i  Lemon. 

4  Eggs.  2  oz.  Sugar. 

Simmer  the  macaroni  in  a  pint  of  milk  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  till  quite  soft  with  the  lemon-peel ;  take  out  the 
peel,  and  put  the  macaroni  in  a  pie-dish  lined  with  puff 
paste;  bend  round  the  edges.  Beat  the  eggs  well;  add 
sugar  and  glass  of  brandy.  Stir  this  into  the  other  pint 
of  milk,  and  pour  over  the  macaroni,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour. 

PUDDING  {MADONNA). 
(Mrs.  D.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

lo  oz.  Bread-crumbs.  i  large  or  3  small  Lemons. 

8  oz.  Sugar  (White  or  Brown).  i  Egg. 

8  oz.  Beef  Suet.  A  tablespoonful  of  Brandy. 

Chop  the  suet  very  fine,  mix  it  with  the  bread-crumbs, 
sugar,  grated  lemon-peel ;  then  add  the  juice,  brandy,  and 
egg  well  beaten.  Mix  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  pack  firmly  into  a  well-buttered  mould.  Boil  one  and 
«  half  hours.     Serve  with  sweet  or  wine  sauce. 

i»7 


P]     PUDDING  (MANCHESTER— MOLLY'S— POTATO), 


PUDDING  (MANCHESTER), 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  pour  it  boiling  over  six  ounces  0/ 
bread-crumbs ;  when  nearly  cold  add  two  ounces  of  white 
sugar.  Beat  up  two  ounces  of  butter  and  two  eggs  ;  butter 
a  pudding-dish,  and  at  the  bottom  lay  a  covering  of  jam  ; 
pour  mixture  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.    Enough  for  six.    As  nice  hot  as  cold. 


PUDDING  {MOLLY'S). 

Ingredients. 
Stale  Penny  Loal  X  oz.  Maizcab 

Marmalade.  i  Egg. 

I  pint  of  Milk. 

Put  a  layer  of  stale  crumbs  into  a  buttered  dish  or  basin, 
then  a  layer  of  jam,  then  another  of  crumbs,  and  so  on  till 
the  dish  is  full.  Then  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  maizena  and 
one  egg ;  add  to  it  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  pour  this  over 
the  crumbs.  Either  bake  or  boil.  Time,  half  an  hour. 
Cheap  and  good. 

PUDDING  {ORANGE). 
(Mrs.  Fleming.) 

Peel  six  oranges  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces.  Make  a 
custard  with  a  pint  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-flour,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  When 
nearly  cold,  pour  custard  over  the  oranges,  and  mix  well 
together.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
three  spoonfuls  of  sifted  loaf  sugar.  Heap  this  on  the 
pudding,  and  bake  in  the  oven  a  light  brown. 


PUDDING  {POTATO). 
(Copied  from  our  Grandmother's  Dutch  book.) 

Take  a  soup-plate  of  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  ;  a 
saucerful  of  butter,  melted ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  iloui ', 
188 


PUDDING  ("SWEET  POTATO"— PLUM).  [P 


six  eggs,  white  and  yolk  whipped  separately ;  about  two 
dozen  almonds  ;  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water.  Mix 
the  yolks  with  the  mashed  potatoes,  then  the  flour,  then 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  the  grated  almonds,  and  rose-water. 
Butter  the  mould,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  citron  pre- 
serve, and  boil  two  hours.  Can  be  served  with  sifted 
sugar  and  melted  butter,  or  any  sweet  sauce. 


PUDDING  {"SWEET  POTATO*). 
(Cape.) 

Ingredients. 

J  lb.  of  "  Sweet  Potatoes,"  boiled  and  3  Eggs. 

mashed  very  fine.  i  teaspoonful  Sifted  Cinnamon, 

i  Id.  Butter.  A  little  Nutmeg. 

{ lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  \  wineglass  Brandy. 

Stir  the  butter  to  a  cream  with  the  sugar ;  whip  the 
eggs  separately.  Mix  all  with  the  mashed  sweet  potatoes, 
etc.  Line  a  tart-dish  with  puff  paste ;  bake  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done,  sift  sugar  on  the 
top. 


PUDDING  {PLUM). 
(Old  English  Recipe) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Raisins.  7  Eggs. 

1  lb.  Currants.  2  oz.  Flour. 

I  lb.  Beef  Suet.  i  tablespoonful  of  Mixed  Splcei — 

i  lb.  Candied  Citron.  Ginger,  Cinnamon,  Nutmeg. 

%  lb.  Sugar.  i  tumbler  of  Brandy, 

Stone  and  clean  the  raisins,  wipe  the  currants ;  cut  the 
beef  suet  very  fine,  also  the  candied  citron  ;  whisk  the 
whites  and  yolks  separately ;  mix  all  together.  Boil  in  a 
well-floured  cloth,  or  mould,  for  six  hours.  Improves  by 
being  made  weeks  before,  and  kept  till  wanted.  Very 
good. 

189 


P]    PUDDING  (PLUM-PLAIN— QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS). 


PUDDING  {AN  EXCELLENT  PLUM), 
(Made  without  eggs.    English.) 

Jngredients. 

\\h.  Flour.  Jib.  Mashed  Potatoes. 

6  oz.  Raisins.  i  tablespoonful  of  Treacle  or  Goldn 

601.  Currants.  Syrup. 

6  oz.  Chopped  Suet.  i  oz.  Candied  Lemon  PeeL 

i  lb.  Brown  Sugar.  I  oz.  Citron. 

{ lb.  Mashed  Carrots. 

I  teaspoonful  of  Mixed  Spices — Ginger,  Cinnamon,  Nutmeg. 

Mix  flour,  currants,  suet,  sugar  well.  Have  ready  the 
above  proportions  of  carrot  and  potato,  and  stir  them  into 
the  other  ingredients ;  add  treacle  and  lemon  peel,  but  no 
other  liquid,  or  it  will  be  spoiled.  Boil  in  a  mould,  but  do 
not  fill  it  quite,  as  it  must  have  room  to  swell.  Let  it 
boil  for  four  hours.  This  pudding  is  best  mixed  over-night. 
Serve  with  brandy  sauce.  [See  Sauce  FOR  PUDDINGS 
"  Bessie's.") 

PUDDING  {PLAIN,  GOOD). 

Ingredients. 

I  quart  Boiled  Milk.  J  lb.  Flour. 

I  lb.  Mashed  Potatoes.  3  oz.  Butter. 

2  oz.  Sugar. 

Mix  the  ingredients,  and  when  cold,  add  three  well- 
beaten  eggs;  flavour  with  essence  of  bitter  almonds  or 
vanilla.  Bake  or  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  with 
wine  sauce.  {See  Bessie's  Recipe  among  Sauces  for 
Puddings.) 

PUDDING  {QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS). 
(Mrs.  Henry  Cloete.) 

Take  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  of  white  bread,  well 
soaked  in  boiling  milk ;  whisk  the  yolk  of  three  eggs ;  a 
good  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
lemon-peel  or  cinnamon.  Bake  in  the  oven.  When  nearly 
cold,  put  on  a  layer  of  apricot  jam,  or  gooseberry.  Whisk 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  with  one  cup  of  sifted  sugar  and 
190 


PUDDING  (QUINCE— RICE).  [P 


the  juice  of  a  lemon ;   cover  the  preserve.      Put  back  in 
the  oven  to  dry — not  brown. 


PUDDING  {QUINCE). 

Ingredients, 

7  Quinces.  Powdered  Ginger,  Cinnamoih 

I  pint  Cream.  ilb.  Sugar, 

4  Eggs.  Puff  Paste. 

Boil  seven  large  quinces  until  very  tender,  pare  and 


core  them  j  beat  to  a  pulp,  adding  the  sugar.  Beat  up  the 
eggs,  stir  gradually  into  a  pint  of  cream;  mix  with  the 
pulp ;  flavour  with  cinnamon  or  ginger ;  put  into  a  buttered 
dish  with  puff  paste  round.  Bake  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.     Serve  with  sugar. 


PUDDING  {RICE). 
(An  old  Dutch  Recipe.     Mrs.  Mybergh.) 

Ingredients. 

5  tablespoonfuls  of  Pounded  Rice.  8  oz.  of  Sugar. 
I  quart  of  Milk.                                           2  oz.  of  Butter. 

6  Eggs,  I  teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon. 

Boil  the  rice  and  milk  till  thick  and  soft.  Let  it  cool; 
stir  in  the  butter ;  whisk  whites  and  yolks  separately,  mix 
with  the  rice  and  milk.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in 
a  buttered  mould  dusted  with  fine  biscuit.  Turn  out  when 
cold. 

PUDDING  {RICE). 

(My  Mother's  Recipe.) 

Boil  one  cupful  of  rice  in  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  new 
milk  ;  when  soft  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When 
cold,  whisk  up  three  eggs,  add  some  cinnamon  or  Naartje 
(Tangerine  orange)  peel,  stir  well  together,  and  bake  for 
twenty  minutes  in  a  buttered  pie-dish.     Very  good. 

191 


P]  PUDDING  (ROLY-POLY  JAM— ROMAN). 


PUDDING  {ROLY-POLY  JAM). 
(My  Mother's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  of  Flour.  Eggspoonful  of  Salt 

\  lb.  of  finely  out  Beef  Suet.  i  pint  of  Cold  Water. 

Mix  all  well  together,  roll  out  very  thinly,  leaving  a 
small  edge  of  half  an  inch  for  the  dough  to  stick ;  cover 
the  whole  surface  with  jam  (will  take  about  three-quarters 
of  a  pound — quince  jam  is  very  good),  roll  up,  fasten  the 
ends  well;  have  ready  a  cloth  which  has  been  dipped  in 
boiling  water  and  well  dusted  with  flour  ;  put  the  roly-poly 
in  this ;  tie  up  the  ends  well,  putting  a  little  dry  flour  at 
each  end  of  the  cloth,  to  prevent  the  water  getting  in.  Put 
into  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  two  or  three  hours. 


PUDDING  {POTATO  ROLY-POLY). 
(English.) 

Take  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potato,  a  pint  of  flour,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  moisten 
with  milk  or  water  into  a  dough.  Roll  the  paste  out, 
spread  it  with  any  jam  that  has  no  stones,  roll  and  tie 
up,  and  steam  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  A  very  nice 
sauce  to  eat  with  this  dainty  pudding  is,  two  ounces  of 
butter  and  two  tablespoon fuls  of  sugar  beaten  together, 
and  added  to  one  well- beaten  egg  ;  go  on  beating,  pouring 
in  by  degrees  a  little  boiling  water,  till  the  sauce  looks 
like  cream. 

PUDDING   (ROMAN). 
(A  nice  Recipe  for  cold  meat.) 

Mince  some  cold  meat — veal,  chicken,  or  beef;  take 
a  cup  of  good  stock,  nicely  flavoured,  one  t.^'g,  some 
lemon  or  tomato  sauce,  a  little  vermicelli  or  bread-crumbs,, 
pepper,  and  salt  j  mix  all  together,  with  a  suspicion  of 
onion  and  parsley.  Line  a  meat  mould  or  basin  with 
some  macaroni,  previously  boiled  quite  tender  in  milk  of 

192 


PUDDING  (SNOW— "SCHAUM"  OR  "BESSIE'S").    [P 


water,  then  fill  with  the  mince-meat.  Steam  for  half  an 
hour ;  if  made  of  uncooked  meat  it  should  steam  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  When  done,  turn  out  of  the  basin. 
Serve  with  a  nice  white  sauce.     Makes  a  nice  entrie. 

PUDDING  {SNOW). 

Ingredients. 
Sixpenny  packet  of  Gelatine,  Juice  of  7  Lemons. 

I  cup  of  Cold  Water.  i  lb.  of  Crushed  Sugar. 

The  whites  of  2  Eggs. 

Soak  a  sixpenny  packet  of  gelatine  in  a  cupful  of  cold 
water;  then  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of 
seven  lemons,  and  one  pound  of  crushed  loaf  sugar ;  whisk 
well  together;  now  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  Beat  all  together  for  half  an  hour  or  more, 
and  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter  tied  up  in  a  cloth  (or  it 
may  be  baked  instead).  When  done  it  repays  you  for  all 
your  trouble ;  it  is  so  pretty,  looks  like  snow,  and  melts 
in  the  mouth. 

PUDDING  {"SCHAUM"  [FOAM}   OR  "BESSIE'S"). 

Ingredients, 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  Maizena.  A  tiny  pinch  of  Salt. 

3  Eggs.  I  teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Essence 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar.  or  a  bit  of   Cinnamon,  or  10 

3  breakfast-cups  of  Milk.  drops  of  Essence  of  Almonds. 

A  dessertspoonful  of  Butter. 

Set  the  milk  to  boil  with  the  sugar,  keeping  half  a  cup 
to  mix  with  the  maizena  and  butter  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs.  When  the  milk  boils  pour  in  the  maizena,  etc. ;  stir 
till  quite  done,  which  can  be  told  by  the  maizena  coming 
off  from  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan.  Have  ready  the 
whites  stirred  to  a  stiff  froth,  draw  the  saucepan  to  the 
side  ;  let  the  whites  lie  on  the  boiling  mixture  for  a  minute 
or  two  before  stirring  it  lightly  with  the  pudding,  then  pour 
into  a  wetted  mould ;  turn  out  when  cold.  Serve  with 
preserved  peaches,  or  very  good  without. 

A  smaller  pudding  of  this  kind  is  nice  for  invalids — say 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  spoonful  maizena,  one  fresh  egg,  and 
other  ingredients  in  proportion.     Y(*y  good  cold  pudding. 


193 


P]  PUDDING  (TAPIOCA— YORKSHIRE)— PUFF  PASTE. 

PUDDING  (TAPIOCA). 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  quart  of  milk 
for  four  hours,  then  set  it  on  the  fire  with  two  ounces  of 
sugar  and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel.  When  clear  pour 
into  a  pudding-dish  ;  whip  up  two  eggs  well,  mix  with  the 
tapioca  and  milk.     Bake  half  an  hour.     Excellent. 

PUDDING  {TOMATO  AND  MEAT). 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Recipe.) 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  bread-crumbs,  put  on 
this  a  layer  of  underdone  meat  cut  in  thin  slices,  sprinkled 
with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  onion,  then  a  layer  of  ripe 
tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  brown 
sugar,  a  few  pats  of  butter.  Repeat  this  till  the  dish  is  full, 
lastly  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs.  Bake  a  nice  brown.  The 
meat  can  be  minced  if  preferred. 

PUDDING  (YORKSHIRE). 
(To  eat  with  Roast  Beef.) 

Ingredients. 
«  Eggs.  I  pint  of  Milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Flour.  S^t. 

Mix  all  together;  either  bake  in  a  pan  or  under  the 
roast.  Time,  half  an  hour.  If  eggs  are  scarce,  chop  up 
two  ounces  of  suet,  and  liiix  as  above,  and  bake  in  the 
same  way.  This  pudding  should  be  made  flat  and  cut  in 
squares. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

Roll  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  one  and 
a  half  pounds  of  flour,  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon; 
mix  with  thin  cream  instead  of  water ;  add  the  yolk  and 
white  of  one  egg ;  a  little  water  may  be  added  if  neces- 
sary. Roll  out  thinly  and  put  the  butter  on  in  little 
dabs;  roll  out  again  and  spread  the  rest  of  the  butter, 
fold  up  and  let  it  lie  for  an  hour,  then  use  for  tarts  or 
savoury  pies.  This  quantity  would  make  crust  for  a  large 
pie,  two  or  three  tarts,  etc.  Can  safely  be  made  the  day 
before  it  is  wanted  in  cool  weather. 


PUNCH   (MILK)-PUFFS   (BOSTON)— PANCAKES.     [P 

PUNCH  {MILK). 
(Admiral  Etheridge's  Madras  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

la  Oranges.  S  bottles  of  Brandy, 

12  Limes.  6  quarts  Water. 

Peel  and  Juice.  6  lb.  of  Sugar. 

4  bottles  of  Rum.  4  quarts  Boiling  Milk. 

Put  the  peel  of  the  oranges  and  limes  on  the  brandy  for 
three  days ;  then  mix  the  sugar  and  three  quarts  of  lime 
and  orange  juice  well  together,  stir  with  the  brandy  till  all 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Take  out  the  peel  and  add  six 
quarts  of  water,  and  lastly  pour  in  four  quarts  of  boiling 
milk,  stir,  and  cover  up  for  a  couple  of  hours  ;  then  strain 
through  a  double  flannel  bag  till  quite  clear.  Bottle  for 
use.     Be  careful  that  the  milk  is  boiling. 

PUFFS  {BOSTON). 
(A  nice  Tea  Cake.) 

Ingredients. 

4 «».  of  Butter.  4  lb.  of  Flour, 

6  or  3  Eggs.  1  pint  of  Water. 

Put  water  in  a  saucepan,  add  butter,  boil  slowly.  Stir 
in  gradually  the  flour,  beating  well,  then  boil  a  few  minutes. 
Turn  out  to  cool,  beat  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  last 
the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on 
sheets  of  greased  paper  laid  upon  a  pan  or  tin,  in  a  hot 
oven,  for  twenty  minutes.  When  baked,  slit  open  and  fill  it 
with  some  jam  ;  serve  hot. 

[Note  to  Pancakes,  p.  i6i  (Mrs.  Brink's  recipe).— Pancakes  after 
this  recipe  are  excellent  served  with  Stewed  Fowl  as  follows  (an 
old-fashioned  German  entree,  Miss  Leisching's  recipe).] 

Take  one  chicken  (or  white-legged  fowl),  one  ounce  of 
butter,  half  a  pint  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  good  stock,  two 
onions,  some  white  pepper,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  little 
parsley.  Cut  up  the  chicken  nicely  jointed,  let  it  simmer 
for  an  hour.     Then  have  ready  four  pancakes  lightly  baked 

o  2 
'95 


P]  "  POFFERTJES." 


and  rolled  up  and  cut  in  halves,  and  gently  laid  in  the 
sauce,  not  to  break  them,  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  nicely 
in  an  entrie  dish,  and  garnish  with  the  pancakes  cut  in  rings. 
Should  the  gravy  in  which  the  chicken  has  stewed  require 
thickening,  whisk  up  an  egg  with  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  stir  it 
into  the  stock  quickly  after  the  chicken,  etc.,  has  been 
dished,  and  pour  over  the  whole.      Very  good. 

[Note.— "Po/ifertjes"  is  an   old   Dutch   Pudding  Recipe  worth 
preserving.] 

'' POFFERTJES." 

Ingredients. 

A  lb.  of  Butter.  i  pint  of  Milk  or  Water. 

j  lb.  of  Flour.  6  Eggs. 

I  lb.  of  Lard. 

Add  the  butter  to  boiling  milk  or  water,  then  stir  into 
it  the  flour  gradually  over  the  fire  till  it  ceases  to  adhere  to 
the  saucepan  or  spoon  ;  let  the  mixture  cool  on  a  dish,  then 
stir  in  the  egg,  yolks  and  whites  whisked  separately.  Put 
the  lard  into  a  saucepan  ;  when  it  boils  well,  put  lumps  of 
dough  about  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  into  the  saucepan, 
keeping  the  puffs  down  with  a  skimmer  (as  they  will  rise 
to  the  top  of  the  fat)  till  they  are  a  light  brown  colour. 
Serve  hot  with  white  sugar. 


190 


QUAILS. 

Quails  are  very  plentiful  at  the  Cape  in  October  and 
November. 

They  arc  generally  cooked  in  a  baking-pot — the  old 
Dutch  way.  Cut  ofif  the  wings  at  the  first  pinion,  leaving 
the  feet ;  pass  a  skewer  through  the  pinions  and  wings ; 
cover  the  breast  with  a  young  vine  leaf  and  a  slice  of  fat 
bacon.  Bake  a  nice  brown.  Serve  on  buttered  toast,  with 
good  gravy  poured  on  them.  Bread  sauce  can  be  served 
with  them. 

Note. — In  some  Cape  houses  curried  quail  is  considered 
a  great  delicacy. 


QUINCE  "SAMBAL." 
(A  Green  Chutney.    Malay  Recipe.) 

Take  two  or  three  greenish  quinces  j  peel  and  quarter 
them ;  a  few  slices  of  onion,  a  green  chilli,  and  some  salt. 
Pound  all  these  in  a  mortar,  and  serve  with  loast  or  curry. 
A  very  good  condiment. 


■99 


RAGOUT  OF  COLD  DUCK  OR   TURKEY. 
(Malay  or  Cape  Dish.) 

Cut  up  the  remains  of  cold  duck,  etc. ;  make  a  little 
stock  of  the  bones ;  flavour  with  cayenne  pepper,  mustard, 
tomato  sauce.  Cut  a  large  onion  into  small  pieces ;  fry  (or 
"  smoor,"  as  they  say  in  Dutch)  in  boiling  fat  6t  butter. 
Mix  with  the  stock,  which  can  be  thickened  with  a  little 
brown  flour.  When  this  mixture  is  boiling,  add  your 
pieces  of  cold  duck,  turkey,  or  chicken.  After  being 
slightly  browned,  pour  the  savoury  mixture  over  them,  and 
let  the  whole  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  till  thoroughly 
warm. 

RAGOUT  {TONGUE). 
(From  Miss  Becker.    German.) 

Boil  a  fresh  tongue  for  two  or  three  hours,  with  two 
dozen  whole  peppercorns,  a  small  piece  of  ginger  (pounded), 
two  bay  leaves,  a  spoonful  of  salt.  When  nice  and  soft, 
take  out,  peel  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Then  take  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  spoonfuls  of  flour ;  stir  with  the 
butter  over  the  fire  till  nice  and  brown  ;  stir  into  a  cup  of 
the  soup  that  the  tongue  has  been  boiled  in,  one  glass  of 
madeira,  some  cayenne  pepper,  some  potted  mushrooms. 
Simmer  the  tongue  in  this  mixture  for  a  few  minutes. 
Serve  with  croquettes  made  of  minced  meat,  nicely  seasoned, 
rolled  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fried  in  a  pan  with  boiling  fat. 
Garnish  with  small  potatoes,  boiled  in  their  jackets,  then 
peeled  and  fried  in  bread-crumbs  and  lard.  A  very  nice 
entrde. 

2  03 


R]  RIBS  OF  BEEF  (BONED  SPICED)— RICE  (YELLOW). 


SPICED  RIBS  OF  BEEF  {BONED). 

(Home  Recipe.) 

For  ten  pounds  of  beef,  take  a  breakfast-cup  of  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  full  teaspoonful  of  saltpetre, 
about  twenty-four  cloves,  twenty-four  allspice,  a  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  bruised  and  well  rubbed  into  the  beef.  Bone, 
roll,  and  skewer  the  beef,  and  leave  in  the  pickle  for  a 
week.  Steam  for  three  or  four  hours,  and  place  between 
plates  with  weights  on  it  to  press  it  firmly  together. 
Excellent — to  be  eaten  cold. 


RICE  (BOILED). 
(Cape  way.) 

Ingreditnts, 
I  pint  of  Rice.  a  quarts  of  Water. 

Wash  the  rice  three  times,  then  put  it  into  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  boil 
briskly  till  the  rice  is  soft,  then  drain  off  all  the  water  by 
putting  the  rice  in  a  colander;  pour  a  pint  of  cold  water 
over  the  rice  when  in  the  colander;  put  it  back  in  the 
saucepan,  and  set  it  on  the  stove  till  it  is  quite  dry  and 
each  grain  of  rice  separates  from  the  other.  Time,  half 
an  hour.    Enough  for  curry  for  six  people.     {See  CURRY.) 


RICE  (YELLOW). 
(Malay  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  pint  of  Rice.  i  tablespoonfol  of  Butter. 

3  quarts  of  Water.  i  teaspoonful  of  pounded  Turmeria 

J  lb.  of  light  yellow  Sufar.  Some  Sultana  Raisins  or  Currants. 

Wash  the  rice  well ;  set  it  on  the  fire  with  two  quarts 
of  water  and  all  the  ingredients  at  once.     Let  it  boil  for 
half  an  hour.     A  very  favourite  dish  with  Cape  children. 
a34 


RICE   MILK— RISSOLES,  OR  CROQUETTES.         (R 


RICE  MILK. 
(A  homely  dish.) 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  pie-dish  ;  take  half  a  pint 
of  rice,  wash  and  crush  slightly,  and  put  into  the  milk ; 
set  the  dish  in  the  oven,  with  a  tin  plate  over  it  to  prevent 
scorching.  Serve  with  sugar.  Tapioca  done  in  the  same 
way  is  very  good. 


RISSOLES.—Sa  also. "  Frickadels." 

RISSOLES,   OR  CROQUETTES. 

(Mrs.  Fleminf .) 

Mince  finely  about  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  cold  meat 
—cold  roast  beef,  fowl,  or  veal  is  best ;  also  a  few  slices 
of  ham,  raw  or  boiled ;  season  with  salt,  white  pepper, 
nutmeg,  a  very  tiny  shred  of  onion  chopped  to  powder, 
and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter 
into  a  stewpan  ;  when  melted  stir  in  gradually  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  flour ;  then  add  a  teacupful  of  milk  and 
the  same  quantity  of  stock.  When  this  is  sufficiently 
cooked  to  take  away  the  rawness  of  the  flour,  stir  in  the 
meat,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  three 
eggs  lightly  beaten,  a  little  catsup,  tomato  sauce,  or 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  if  liked,  a  little  grated  lemon- 
peel.  Stir  all  this  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  stewpan,  then 
set  it  to  cool  before  shaping  into  balls  (which  can  be 
nicely  formed  by  pressing  them  in  a  wineglass)  or  into 
rolls  slightly  flattened ;  dip  them  in  ^g'g  and  roll  in  crumbs 
after  being  formed.  Then  put  into  a  saucepan  as  much 
lard  as  when  melted  would  cover  them  ;  when  the  lard 
boils,  drop  the  rissoles  in,  and  let  them  get  a  golden 
brown.  The  lard  can  be  used  again  and  again.  This 
jnixture  is  very  nice  in  batter.     Yery  good. 

»0S 


R]      RISSOLES  (FISH)— ROUND   OF  BEEF  (SPICED). 


RISSOLES  (FISH). 
(An  old  Dutch  way.) 

Ingredients. 

t  lb.  of  Fish.  Some  Parsley. 

I  Onion  fried  in  Butter.  Some  Nutmeg. 

I  gqod  slice  of  soaked  Bread  A  little  Cayenne, 

squeezed  very  dry.  A  little  Salt. 
a  Eggs. 

Mince  the  fish  very  fine  ;  mix  with  squeezed  bread, 
flavouring,  and  egg,  and  dust  a  little  dry  biscuit  into  it  as 
you  are  rolling  it  into  shapes  ;  roll  in  egg  and  fine  bread- 
crumbs or  dry  biscuit  pounded,  and  fry  in  lard.  Serve  in 
a  hot  dish,  with  a  little  melted  butter  and  tomato  sauce 

over  it.      Very  good. 

ROASTS. 

See  Beef  k  la  Mode,  Beef  (Spiced),  Beefsteak,  Fowls,  Gesmoorde 
Hoender,  Lamb,  Mutton  Chops,  Pies,  Pudding  (Beefsteak),  Pudding 
(Tomato  and  Meat),  Saddle  of  Mutton,  Turkey,  Veal,  Venison. 

ROLLS  {HOT). 

Ingredients. 

2  lb.  of  Flour.  A  teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

A  little  Salt. 

Mix  the  soda  and  salt  well  with  the  flour ;  then  mix 
with  buttermilk  or  sour  milk  to  the  consistency  of  ordinary 
dough.  Cut  with  a  knife  into  little  rolls.  Bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven  or  baking-pot.     For  a  dozen  people, 

ROLY-POLY.— See  PUDDINQS. 

ROUND   OF  BEEF  {SPICED). 

(Mrs.  Fitzpatrick's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

S4  lb.  of  Round  of  Beef.  i  oz.  of  Cloves. 

3  oz.  of  Saltpetre.  i  oz.  of  Nutmeg. 

3  oz.  of  coarse  black  Sugar.  i  oz.  of  Allspice. 

3  handfuls  of  coarse  Salt. 

Pound    all    the    ingredients    except   the    meat    finely 
io6 


ROUND    OF  BEEF   (SPICED).  [R 


together ;  rub  into  the  beef  twice  a  day,  turning  it  each 
time,  for  fifteen  days  ;  put  into  a  pan  so  as  to  be  covered 
with,  the  pickle  liquor  formed  by  the  salt,  etc.,  and  cover 
the  pan  with  a  cloth.  The  bone  must  be  taken  out,  and 
the  meat  hung  for  twelve  hours  to  make  it  tender.  When 
it  is  to  be  dressed,  dip  it  into  water  to  take  off  the  loose 
spice,  and  bind  it  round  with  tape.  Put  it  into  a  large 
pot,  with  a  teacupful  of  water  at  the  bottom  ;  cover  the 
top  of  the  meat  with  shred  suet,  a  brown  crust,  and  paper 
over  the  whole.  Bake  for  five  or  six  hours.  The  gravy 
can  be  kept  for  flavouring  soup  or  hash.  Very  good.  {See 
also  Beef  (Spiced),  Mrs.  Cloete's  recipe.) 


so? 


SADDLE   OF  MUTTOff. 

The  best  joint  at  the  Cape  is  a  twelve  pound  saddle  ot 
mutton.  When  hung  for  four  days  it  is  most  beautifully 
tender,  resembling  Welsh  mutton.  Wash  and  wipe  dryj 
dust  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  put  into  a  baking- 
pan  in  a  hot  stove  oven  for  two  hours,  basting  occasionally. 
Serve  with  quince  or  red  currant  jelly. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
(Mrs.  Spence's  Recipe.) 

■  Ingredients. 

2  Hard-borled  Eggs.  i  teaspoonful  Brown  Sugasi 

z  dessertspoonful  Dry  Mustard.         i  tablespoonful  Vinegar, 
I  teaspoonful  Salt.  a  tablespoonfuls  Oil. 

4  cup  Cream. 

Crush  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  fine  with  a  table- 
spoon, in  a  basin  or  soup-plate,  with  the  mustard  and 
other  dry  ingredients ;  add  the  oil,  little  by  little,  till  it  is 
well  mixed,  then  the  vinegar,  and  lastly  the  cream.  This 
sauce  will  keep  for  a  week  if  kept  well  corked  in  a  cool 
place. 

SALAD  DRESSING  {ANOTHER), 

Ingredients. 

t  Cold  Boiled  Potato.  A  little  Pepper. 

The  Yolk  of  i  Hard-boiled  Egg.  Rather  more  than  a  tablespoosful  of 

I  teaspoonful  Dry  Mustard.  Oil. 

I  teaspoonful  Sugar.  2  tablespoonfuls  Vinegar. 

\  teaspoonful  Salt.  The  White  of  Egg,  chopped  fine. 

Mix  like  the  preceding,  and  add  a  little  anchovy  sauce, 
if  liked. 

p  2 

211 


S]  SALAD  (CHICKEN— CUCUMBER— GUAVA). 


SALAD  (CHICKEN\ 

Ingredients, 

Cold  FowL  a  Hard-boiled  Eggs. 

2  White-heart  Lettuces.  a  teaspooufuls  of  Mustai4. 

2  dessertspoonfuls  of  Butter,  melted        i  teaspoonful  of  Sugar, 
(or  Salad  Oil),  a  tablespoonfuls  of  Vinegar. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Cream. 

Wash  and  dry  the  lettuces,  reserving  centre  leaves  j  cut 
them  fine,  lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Mince  all 
the  white  meat  from  a  boiled  chicken  or  fowl  (without  the 
skin),  and  place  it  on  the  lettuce.  Rub  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  melted  butter, 
or  oil,  add  to  it  the  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  sugar,  salt, 
pepper,  and  stir  gradually  with  the  vinegar  —  this  makes 
the  dressing.  Arrange  the  centre  leaves  oi  the  lettuce  as 
a  border,  and  the  white  of  eggs,  and  some  small,  delicate 
cress,  beetroot  cut  in  shapes,  or  tomato,  and,  when  ready  to 
serve,  pour  over  the  chicken  the  salad  dressing.  A  nice 
supper  or  lunch  dish. 

SALAD  (CUCUMBER). 

Ingredients. 

Cucumber.  Cayenne,  or  Pepper. 

Spring  Onion.  Lucca  Oil 

Cut  the  cucumber  in  very  thin  slices  across;  a  few 
slices  of  spring  onion,  two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  olive  oil, 
and,  just  before  serving,  a  little  salt 

SALAD  {GUAVA  SALAD,   OR  "ANGELS'  FOOD'^. 
(A  favourite  Cape  dish.) 

Ingredients. 
i^doz.  Guavas.  Sugar. 

2  Oranges.  i  glass  Sherry. 

Peel  and  slice  the  guavas  thinly,  lay  them  on  a  glass 
dish,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar;  then  a  layer  of  oranges 
sprinkled  with  sugar ;  again  guavas,  and  so  on  till  the  dish 
is  filled.  Pour  over  all  a  glass  of  sherry.  Let  it  stand  for 
a  while.     //  is  a  delicious  dessert  dish. 


SALAD  (LOBSTER)— SANDWICHES  (VICTORIA).      [S 


SALAD  {JLOBSTERi. 

Ingredients. 
I  Lobster.  4  tablespoonfuls  of  Plain  VlnegK 

Yolks  of  3  Eggs.  A  taste  of  Chilli  Vinegar. 

I  teaspoonful  of  MustutL  a  tablespoonfuls  of  Salad  OiL 

Some  Cayenne.  Some  Fresh  Lettuces. 

Pick  all  the  meat  out  of  a  lobster ;  beat  well  the  yolks 
of  two  new-laid  eggs,  beat  in  some  made  mustard,  and, 
continuing  to  beat,  drop  in  the  salad  oil ;  add  any  flavour- 
ing that  may  be  preferred,  a  taste  of  chilli  vinegar,  some 
plain  vinegar  (four  tablespoonfuls),  and  the  soft  part  of  the 
lobster.  Moisten  the  remainder  of  the  lobster  with  this 
sauce,  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  Cut  up  the 
lettuce,  rolling  it  in  the  dressing,  and  put  it  over  the 

lobster. 

SALAD  {ORANGE). 

Ingredients. 
8  Oranges.  i  wineglass  of  Brandy. 

I  Pineapple.  4  oz.  Sugar. 

Peel  and  core  the  oranges ;  lay  in  a  glass  dish  well 
sprinkled  with  sugar,  with  slices  of  pineapple  between, 
cut  thin,  with  the  rough  outside  cut  off;  then  add  a  large 
wineglass  of  brandy  or  sherry.  Keep  the  dish  closed  for 
an  hour.     Delicious. 

SALAD. — See  Note  at  end  of  S,  p.  23X 

SALSAFY  AS  AN  ENTStE. 

Clean  and  scrape  the  salsafy,  boil  tender,  and  cut  in 

rounds.    Add  a  white  sauce  made  thus :  one  ounce  of  flour, 

half  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  little  milk.    Butter  an  oyster 

scallop,  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

SANDWICHES.— Set  r»ote  at  end  of  S,  pp.  232-3. 

SANDWICHES  {VICTORIA). 
(Mrs.  Dwyer.) 

Ingredients. 

4  Eggs.  The  weight  of  the  Eggs  in  ButtW, 

A  little  Salt  Pounded  Sugar,  and  Flour. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  dredge  in  the  flour  and 
pounded  sugar ;  stir  these  well  together  and  add  the  eggs, 


S]  SASATIES   OR  KABOBS. 

first  well  whisked.  Beat  the  mixture  for  ten  minutes. 
Butter  a  Yorkshire-pudding-tin;  pour  in  the  batter  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Let  it  cool. 
Spread  one-half  the  cake  with  any  jam  or  preserve,  place 
over  it  the  other  half,  press  together,  and  cut  in  long  finger 
strips.     Pile  them  in  cross-bars  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

SASATIES  OR  KABOBS. 
(Mrs.  J.  Cloete's  Recipe.    Indian.) 

Take  the  thick  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  cut  into  small 
square  bits,  and  fat  in  between ;  put  into  a  large  earthen- 
ware bowl.  Mince  a  raw  onion  and  some  lemon  leaves,  a 
tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  mix  all 
well  together  and  pour  over  th§  meat.  Now  take  three  or 
four  onions,  cut  small,  fry  in  a  pan  with  a  spoonful  of 
butter  or  fat  to  a  nice  brown.  Take  an  ounce  of  tamarinds,* 
pour  on  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water ;  when  all  the  strength 
nas  gone  out  of  it,  strain,  and  mix  with  the  onions  and  let 
it  boil ;  then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  good  curry  powder  or 
Indian  curry  paste  (a  clove  of  garlic  if  liked)  chopped  up, 
some  salt ;  mix  well  together  and  pour  over  the  meat. 
The  next  morning  put  the  meat  on  skewers,  fat  and  lean 
alternately.  Carefully  take  all  the  sauce,  put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  and  boil  up  with  a  pat  of  butter.  Roast  the 
skewered  meat  (sasaties)  on  a  gridiron  heated  on  wood 
coals,  and  serve  with  the  sauce.    Add  chutney  if  liked. 

SASATIES  OR  KABOBS. 
(A  Malay  or  Indian  Dish.    My  own  Recipe.)  ' 

Ingredients. 

X  Fat  Leg  of  Muttoa,  A  tablespoonful  of  Sugar. 

2  oz.  of  Good  Curry  Powder.  A  cup  of  Milk. 

\  cup  of  Vinegar,  or  the  Juice  of  J  dozen  Lemon  or  Orange  Leavel 

3  Lemons  (if  not  to  be  had,  an  2  oz.  of  Butter. 

oz.  of  Tamarind  drawn  on  a  cup  3  dozen  Skewers,   cut    out  of   a 

of  water  gives  a  very  pleasant  Bamboo,  or  Iron  Skewers. 

acid).  Salt  to  be  added  when  skewered. 

Cut  up  the  leg  of  mutton  in  little  pieces  an  inch  square, 

brown  the  onion,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  fried  in  a  pan  in  fat 

•  If  not  to  be  had  use  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  as  in  following  recipe- 


SASATIES -SAUCE  FOR  HOT  BOILED  FOWL.       [S 

or  butter.  Mix  all  tlie  ingredients  well  up  with  the  cut-up 
meat  in  a  deep  pan  or  basin  ;  leave  it  for  a  night  or  longer, 
and  when  wanted,  place  the  meat  interspersed  here  and 
there  with  fat  on  the  skewers.  Place  the  gridiron  on  wood 
coals  to  get  very  hot,  then  grill  the  sasaties  a  nice  brown. 
Serve  hot  with  rice.  The  gravy  to  be  well  heated  in  a 
saucepan,  and  served  with  the  sasaties.  A  very  favourite 
picnic  dish  at  the  Cape. 

SASATIES.— Set  also  "BOBOTEE"  and  CURRY. 

SAUCE  FOR   COLD  BOILED  FOWL. 
(Mrs.  Spence's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

1  pint  New  MiUc  A  little  Salt. 

2  oz.  Butter.  A  pinch  of  Cayenne. 

The  Yolks  of  2  Eggs.  A  few  strips  of  Lemon-Peel,  and 

2  oz.  Maizena,  Juice. 

Mix  the  maizena,  salt,  cayenne,  and  the  eggs  with  a 
little  of  the  new  milk.  Boil  the  rest  of  the  milk,  then  add 
the  maizena,  etc.,  to  it,  stirring  over  the  fire  till  smooth 
and  thick.  Pour  out  and  stir  till  cold  ;  pour  over  the  fowl. 
It  should  lie  on  it  without  dropping  off.      Very  good. 

SAUCE  {ANOTHER),  FOR  COLD  BOILED  FOWL. 
(Mrs.  Spence's  Recipe.) 

Boil  your  two  chickens  in  a  cloth  ;  then  take  the  feet 
and  neck,  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  cup  or  more  of  water, 
a  small  blade  of  mace,  a  slice  of  onion.  When  well  boiled 
strain  through  a  sieve.  Take  one  cup  of  this  stock,  thicken 
with  two  ounces  of  maizena,  add  a  cupful  of  cream,  yolk 
of  an  egg,  a  little  cayenne  and  white  pepper.  Let  it  cool ; 
pour  over  the  chicken.  Garnish  the  dish  with  hard-boiled 
eggs,  cut  in  slices,  beetroot,  pieces  of  carrot.  A  very  nice 
dish  for  lunch  or  supper. 

SAUCE  FOR  HOT  BOILED  FOWL.— See  Sauce  (White). 


S]  SAUCE  FOR  DEVILLED  CHICKEN,  ETC. 


SAUCE  FOR  DEVILLED  CHICKEN,  ETC. 

Ingredients. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  Gravy,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  Mustard. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Chutney  Paste,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  Salt. 

I  tablespoonful  of  Ketchup.  i  teaspoonful  of  Butter. 

A  pinch  of  Sugar, 

Mix  all  these  ingredients  as  smooth  as  possible ;  warm 
it  well.  Srown  your  cold  meat  in  a  little  butter ;  then  add 
to  the  mixture  and  simmer  for  a  few  minutes. 

SAUCE  (MELTED  BUTTER),  FOR  FISH,  ETC. 

Mix  the  proportion  of  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  to  two 
ounces  of  butter.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  ; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water,  or  milk,  which  is 
better  than  water,  and  if  milk  is  used  less  butter  is  required. 

SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. 
(Bessie's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
\  a  cup  of  clear  Brown  Sugar. 
la  cup  of  Water.  ^  a  cup  of  Sherry  (or  a  wine- 

Dessertspoonful  of  Maizena.  glass  of  Brandy). 

Stir  maizena  and  sugar  in  half  a  cup  of  water  till  it  is 
smooth,  and  let  it  boil ;  then  add  the  wine  or  brandy. 
Time,  ten  minutes.  This  will  do  for  any  boiled  pudding. 
Cheap. 

SAUCE  {BREAD). 
(My  Mother's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  pint  of  Milk.  A  small  Onion. 

A  cup  of  crumbled  crumb  of  Bread.  A  Blade  of  Mace. 

A  teaspoonful  of  Butter.  A  little  Pepper  and  Salt 

Peel  and  cut  the  onion  in  quarters ;  simmer  in  the  milk 
till  tender ;  then  take  out.  Stir  the  fine  bread-crumbs  into 
the  boiling  milk  ;  beat  it  with  a  fork  very  smoothly.  Add 
the  seasoning  and  butter  and  a  little  white  pepper.  Give 
"one  more  boil.  To  enrich  the  sauce  a  spoonful  of  cream 
may  be  added.  Time  altogether,  half  an  hour.  Serve 
with  turkey,  chickens,  partridge,  etc, 
•16 


SAUCE  (CAPER— CUSTARD— FISH).  [S 

SAUCE  {CAPER),  FOR  BOILED  MUTTON. 
Add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  capers  to  a  good  white  sauce. 

SAUCE  (CUSTARD),  FOR  TARTS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

Ingredients. 

1  pint  of  Milk.  2  spoonfuls  of  Sugar, 

2  Eggs.  A  spoonful  of  Brandy, 

Stir  two  well-beaten  eggs  into  a  pint  of  hot  milk  and 
pounded  sugar — sweeten  to  taste — in  a  jug.  Set  the  jug 
in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  stir  till  the  consistency  of 
thick  cream.  Serve  over  puddings  or  handed  round  in  a 
sauce-boat.     Care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  boil. 

SAUCE  (DUTCH),  FOR  FISH. 
(Mrs,  Kotze's  Recipe,) 

Ingredients. 

A  tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar  The  Yolks  of  a  or  3  Eggi. 

(or  the  thin  part  of  Tomato  Sauce  ;  2  oz.  of  Butter, 

when  bottled,  the  upper  part  will  Some  Salt, 

become  quite  clear).  A  tablespoonful  of  Cream. 

Whip  up  the  yolks  well  in  a  small  saucepan  with  the 
vinegar.  Keep  stirring  over  the  fire  till  the  consistency  of 
rich  custard.  Don't  let  it  boil.  Then  take  the  butter  and 
stir  that  in  on  the  fire ;  keep  stirring  all  the  time.  Lastly, 
add  the  cream.  Time,  about  six  or  seven  minutes.  Must 
be  served  at  once. 

SAUCE  (EXCELLENT  FOR  FISH). 
(Mrs.  Dwyer's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
\  a  cup  of  Cream.  A  little  Chilli  Vinegar. 

I  teaspoonful  of  Flour.  A  little  Soy. 

I  teaspoonful  Anchovy  Essence.  A  very  little  Cayenne  Pepper. 

A  piece  of  Butter,  the  size  of  a  Walnut. 

Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together ;  set  it  on  the  fire 
with  the  cream,  stirring  well  till  boiled,  for  three  or  four 
minutes ;  then  add  anchovy,  chilli  vinegar,  a  few  drops  of 
soy,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 

•17 


S]        SAUCE   (HORSERADISH— OYSTER— PARSLEY). 


SAUCE  {HORSERADISH). 

Scrape  or  mince  the  horseradish.  Mix  with  a  little 
gait,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  cream.     Good  with  cold  beef  or  mutton. 


SAUCE  {MAYONNAISE). 
(Mrs.  Jackson's  Recipe.) 

Ingreditnts. 

3  Eggs  (yolks  only).  i  a  teaspoonful  Salt. 

3  tablespoonfuls  Oil— Lucca.  J  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  ordinary  Vinegar.  Some  Cayenne. 

I  tablespoonful  Tarragon  Vinegar.  2  spoonfuls  Yorkshire  Relish. 

J  a  teaspoonful  White  Pepper.  4  tablespoonfuls  Cream. 

Put  the  yolks  with  pepper,  salt,  etc.,  in  a  round-bottomed 
basin;  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon,  adding  first  salad  oil, 
then  vinegar,  cream,  etc.  until  all  looks  like  thick  cream. 
Will  keep  if  closely  corked. 

SAUCE  {ONION),   FOR  SHOULDER   OF  MUTTON. 

Peel  four  or  five  white  onions,  put  them  in  salt  and 
water  for  half  an  hour;  then  boil  in  a  saucepan,  well 
covered  with  water,  till  soft ;  drain  thoroughly;  chop  fine; 
mix  with  melted  butter,  according  to  the  previous  recipe  for 
melted  butter.  This  is  a  delicious  sauce  for  boiled  leg  or 
shoulder  of  mutton. 

SAUCE  {OYSTER). 

About  one  and  a  half  dozen  oysters,  raw  or  potted, 
to  half  a  pint  of  good  melted  butter;  a  seasoning  of 
cayenne  pepper.  Cream  used  instead  of  milk  is  a  great 
improvement. 

SAUCE   {PARSLEY). 

Two  spoonfuls  of  chopped   parsley  added  to  melted 
butter  or  white  sauce. 
218 


SAUCE  PIQUANTE— SAUCE  (TOMATO,  TO  KEEP).    [S 


SAUCE  PIQUANTE. 
(Indian  Recipe.) 

Ingriditnts. 

8  oz.  Green  Mangoes  or  Apricots.  4  oz.  Onions 

8  oz.  Raisins.  2  oz.  Garlic 

8  oz.  Salt.  8  oz.  Ginger. 

8  oz.  Sugar.  \  a  bottle  of  Lime  Juice. 

4  oz.  Red  Chillies.  3  bottles  of  Vinegar, 

Pound  the  several  ingredients  well,  add  the  vinegar 
and  lime  juice,  close  the  jar  well,  and  for  one  month 
expose  to  the  sun ;  shake  and  stir  it  well  every  day. 
Afterwards  strain  into  bottles.  The  residuum  is  excellent 
Chutney. 


SAUCE  (TOMATO,    TO   USE  SAME  DAY). 

Boil  one  dozen  tomatoes  to  a  pulp ;  strain  through  a 
soup  strainer,  add  salt,  and  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Very 
nice  with  chops  or  cutlets,  adding  an  ounce  of  butter,  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


SAUCE  {TOMATO,   TO  KEEP), 
(Mrs.  Dan  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Jngreditnts. 

40  large  Ripe  Tomatoes.  2J  bottles  of  Vinegar. 

^  lb.  Coarse  Salt.  a  tablespoonfuls  of  Ginger. 

s  tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Coriander  Seeds, 

a  tablespoonfuls  of  Cloves.  6  large  Onions  ;  a  little  Garlic  may 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  Mace.  be  added. 

3  Horseradish  roots.  8  large  Red  Chillies  or  more. 

Take  forty  very  ripe  tomatoes  cut  into  quarters,  sprinkle 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt,  let  it  stand  for  tliree  or 
four  hours;  drain  off  the  water.  Put  the  tomatoes  in 
a  stewpan  with  all  the  spices  tied  up  in  a  muslin  bag, 
slightly  bruised.  Boil  for  at  least  three  hours,  then  strain 
through  a  coarse  sieve ;  boil  again  for  half  an  hour,  bottle 
whilst  hot 

ai9 


S]  SAUCE  (TOMATO— WHITE). 


SAUCE  (TOMATO). 
(Mrs.  Jackson.) 

Take  eight  pounds  of  tomatoes,  cut  and  stew  till 
tender ;  eight  large  onions,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  the  rind  of 
six  lemons,  six  bottles  of  vinegar,  one  spoonful  of  cloves, 
one  spoonful  of  allspice,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  (spices  to  be  crushed  and  put 
in  a  bag),  fourteen  red  chillies ;  boil  all  well  together  for 
four  hours,  strain  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  juice  of  six 
lemons.     Cork  while  hot 

SAUCE  {TOMATO). 
(A  very  good  Recipe.) 

Ingredients, 

40  lb.  Ripe  Tomatoet.  i  oz.  Cayenne,  or  8  Red  ChilUet, 

1  oz.  Peeled  Garlic  2  oz.  Black  Pepper. 

2  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  2  oz.  Cloves. 
I  lb.  Salt.  4  oz.  Ginger. 

3  quarts  of  the  Best  Vinegar. 

First  boil  the  tomatoes  until  the  skins  and  seeds 
separate  freely,  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve  that  will 
retain  seeds  and  skins.  To  this  juice  add  the  above 
ingredients  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  Boil  all  well  for  an  hour 
or  more,  till  the  juice  is  quite  creamy  and  thick.  Bottle 
and  cork  securely ;  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

SAUCE  {WHITE),   FOR  HOT  BOILED  CHICKEN. 
(Mrs.  Etheridge.) 

Ingredients. 

a  tablespoonfuls  of  Flour.  A  little  Lemon-Peel. 

I  oz.  of  Butter.  A  little  Salt. 

I  pint  of  Milk.  A  little  White  Pepper. 

Some  Button  Mushrooms. 

Stir  flour  and  butter  together;  boil  the  milk,  add  to 
the  flour,  and  stir  till  creamy ;  add  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  boiled  chicken.  The  chicken  to 
be  previously  boiled  in  a  floured  cloth  for  one  and  a  half 
hours, 

8*0 


SAUCE  (WHITEJ— SAVOURIES-SAVOURY  MIXTURE.    [S 


ANOTHER  SAUCE  (WHITER 

(Mrs.  D.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients, 

I  dessertspoonful  of  Maizena,  l  ox.  of  Butter, 

or  Corn-flour.  A  little  Salt. 

A  little  White  Pepper. 

Stir  the  flour  and  butter  well  together  dry  (this 
prevents  it  getting  into  lumps)  ;  pour  over  it  half  a 
teacupful  of  boiling  water ;  stir  on  the  stove  till  thick, 
then  remove ;  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  juice  of  a  lemon 
well  beaten  up,  and  pour  over  chicken. 

SAUSAGES. 
(Our  own  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

IS  lb.  of  Minced  Meat.  4  tablespoonful  of  Allsple* 

8  lb.  of  Fat  (fresh  Bacon)L  *  tablespoonful  of  Mace. 

s  oz.  of  Pepper.  \  tablespoonful  of  mixed  Thyme  and 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Salt.  Sage,  dried  and  powdered. 

I  tablespoonful  of  grated  Nutmeg.  i  pint  of  Claret. 

Take  the  lean  of  one  or  two  legs  of  mutton,  and  any 
scraps  of  meat  that  fall  away  in  cutting  up  a  pig.  Mince 
all  this,  taking  care  not  to  let  any  sinew  come  with  it,  then 
mince  the  fat;  mix  all  well  together.  Have  ready  some 
nicely-cleaned  skins,  and  stuff  the  mince  into  them  with  a 
sausage-machine.  Will  keep  for  eight  or  ten  days.  When 
wanted,  grill  on  the  gridiron  or  in  a  pan ;  time  for  grilling, 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  This  quantity  makes  a  great  deal ; 
half  would  do  for  a  small  party. 

SA  VOURIES. 

Ste  Bloater  Toast,  Cheese-Straws,  Eggs  (Italian),  Savoury  Toa»t, 
Pudding  (Cheese),  and  Souffld  (Cheese). 

SAVOURY  MIXTURE  {TO  POUR   OVER  MEAT). 

Melt  an  ounce  or  more  of  butter  in  a  stewpan;  mix 
In  a  tablespoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little  black  and 
cayenne  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  stock ;  beat  wclL 
This  is  good  to  pour  over  a  grilled  chop  or  steak. 

OBI 


SI    SAVOURY  TOAST— SCONES— SHAPE  (COLD  MEAT). 


SAVOURY   TOAST. 

Ingredients. 
4  boned  Sardinei.  \  sallspoonful  of  Ctyenne. 

I  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  Sauce.  i  oz.  of  Butter. 

Pound  the  ingredients  with  the  sardines,  and  spread  on 
hot  buttered  toast. 


SCONES  (FOR  FIVE   O'CLOCK  TEA). 

Ingredients. 

a  lb.  of  Flour.  4  oz.  of  Butter  or  Fat. 

I  pirtt  of  Milk.  I  teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

Mix  well  together  ;  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut 
with  a  wineglass.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Cut  in  two, 
and  butter,  and  send  in  hot. 


SCONES. 

Ingredients. 

1  lb.  of  Flour.  A  few  Currants,  if  liked. 

2  oz.  of  Butter.  J  lb.  of  Sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder.  i  Egg. 

Beat  the  egg  in  half  a  cupful  of  water;  mix  quickly 
and  thoroughly  with  the  other  ingredients.  Divide  into 
rounds,  which  cut  into  four  little  cakes  each  and  bake. 


SHAPE  {COLD  MEAT). 

Butter  a  plain  mould  ;  chop  up  any  kind  of  cold  meat 
you  may  have  ;  add  some  stock,  warmed,  with  about  three 
ounces  of  gelatine,  flavoured  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg, 
and  lemon  juice.  Have  some  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
quarters,  garnish  the  mould  with  them,  pour  the  mixture 
into  the  mould.     Turn  out  when  cold. 

133 


SHORTBREAD— SILK  (TO  RENOVATE  BLACK),   [S 


SHORTBREAD. 
(Mrs.  Cloete.) 

Ingredientt. 

a  lb.  Floor.  la  oz.  Sugar,  6nel]r  powdered. 

4  Eggs.  I  lb.  Butter. 

Rub  the  flour  and  sugar  well  into  the  butter,  make  into 
a  stiff  paste  with  four  eggs,  roll  to  double  the  thickness  of 
a  penny.     Bake  in  a  warm  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

SHORTBREAD  {ANOTHER). 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  Floar.  \  lb.  Butter. 

1  lb.  Sugar.  A  lar^e  handful  of  Ground  Rlc«. 

Season  with  Nutmeg. 

Mix  ingredients  with  flour,  rub  in  the  butter  until  it 
becomes  a  dough  ;  roll  out  and  cut  into  shape.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

SHORTBREAD  {SCOTCH). 
(Emily's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  Flour,  9  oz.  Butter, 

Rub  well  together  ;  roll  out  and  cut.  Put  pieces  of 
candied  peel  across  each  cake.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 


SILK  {TO  RENOVATE  BLACK). 

Take  about  two  ounces  of  black  tea,  boil  it  well  in  a 
saucepan,  add  to  it  a  few  grains  of  washing  soda  or  car- 
bonate of  soda  and  a  little  dissolved  gum  arable.  Strain,  and 
sponge  the  silk  thoroughly  with  this  mixture  A^^.  Hang  the 
pieces  of  silk  on  a  horse  to  drain,  roil  up  smoothly,  and 
iron  whilst  damp. 

Coff'ee  is  very  good  too,  cleansing  the  silk,  and 
removing  every  stain  or  grease-spot.  The  coffee  must 
be  hot  and  well  strained. 

223 


S]  SILK  (FOR  CLEANING)— SNOW  EGGS. 


SILK  {FOR  CLEANING). 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  ammonia  in  a  quart  of  hot  water, 
and,  with  a  piece  of  sponge  or  black  serge,  rub  till  stains 
are  removed. 

This  also  does  for  cloth. 

SILK  {FOR  CLEANING  RIBBON,   SILKS,  ETC.). 

Ingredients, 
I  tablespoonful  Gin.  i  tablespoonful  Honejr. 

I  tablespoonful  Soft  Soap.  The  White  of  an  Egg. 

Mix  all  well  together.  Dip  the  ribbon,  or  any  silk  you 
want  to  clean,  in  water,  then  lay  on  a  board  and  scrub 
with  the  mixture,  using  a  soft  brush.  Rinse  in  cold  water, 
fold  in  a  cloth,  and  iron  half- dry.     //  will  look  like  new. 

SILK  {TO  CLEAN  AN  OLD  SILK  DRESS). 

Unpick  and  brush  and  wipe.  Then  grate  two  large 
potatoes  into  a  quart  of  water ;  let  it  stand  to  settle,  then 
strain.  Sponge  the  dress  well  with  it,  hang  out,  and  iron 
with  tissue  paper  over  the  silk. 

Black  silk  can  also  be  cleaned  by  sponging  with  gin. 
Paint  spots  to  be  removed  by  spirits  of  turpentine. 

SILK  {TO  TAKE  STAINS  OR  GREASE  SPOTS  OUT  OF). 

Scrape  some  French  chalk  and  lay  it  on  the  spot,  put 
some  blotting-paper  over,  and  leave  it  for  a  day  or  two ;  all 
the  grease  will  be  extracted. 

SILK  OR  CLOTH  {TO    TAKE    OUT   WAX   CANDLE   OR 
SPOTS  OF  SPERM). 

Lay  a  piece  of  blotting-paper  on  the  spot,  put  a  live 
coal  of  fire  in  a  kitchen  spoon,  hold  it  on  the  spot  all 
the  grease  will  be  absorbed  in  the  blotting-paper. 

SNOW  EGGS.— Set  Eggs. 

224 


SOUFFLfi  (CHEESE— EGG).  [S 


SOUFFL&  {CHEESEi. 

Ingredients. 

\  oz.  Butter.  Breakfast-cup  of  Grated  Cheeses 

I  tablespoonful  Flour.  Yolk  of  3  Eggs,  Whites  beaten 

i  pint  Milk.  separately  into  a  froth. 
A  little  Salt  and  Pepper — Cayenne. 

Melt  the  butter,  mix  with  the  flour,  add  milk  slowly,  salt, 
and  pepper  (cayenne) ;  then  add  grated  cheese  and  yolks  of 
eggs,  lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  into  a  flat  buttered 
dish ;  leave  to  bake  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot.  Time, 
twenty  minutes. 


SOUFFLt  {ANOTHER  CHEESE). 

Ingredients, 

\  lb.  Cheese,  Mustard, 

I  quart  Milk.  Cayenne. 

3  Eggs.  Salt. 

Cut  the  cheese  very  thinly,  mix  with  the  eggs  well 
whisked,  then  add  about  one  eggspoonful  mustard,  a  little 
cayenne  and  salt,  a  very  little  cold  milk.  Set  the  quart  of 
milk  to  boil,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter ;  pour  on  the 
cheese,  etc.     Bake  a  light  brown.     Can  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 


SOUFFLt  {EGG). 
(Miss  Bonnie  Cloete's  Rigcipe.) 

Ingredients. 

6  Eggs.  Juice  and  Peel  of  i  Lemon. 

6  tablespoonfuls  Sifted  Sugar.  A  little  Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  add  the  yolks  to 
the  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  peel,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
lastly.  Just  before  putting  in  the  oven,  the  whites,  which 
giust  be  ^  perfect  froth.     Mix  all  thoroughly  but  lightly, 

Q 

MS 


S]     SOUFFLfi  (TAPIOCA)— SOUP   (HOW  TO  CLARIFY), 


and  only  just  before  you  want  it,  as  it  can't  stand  a 
minute,  or  the  yolks  will  sink.  When  baked  it  ought  to 
be  a  frothy  brown  sponge.  Takes  ten  minutes.  Serve 
immediately. 


SOUFFLt  {TAPIOCA). 

Ingredients. 
I  tablespoonful  Tapioca.  i  pint  of  Milk. 

I  oz.  of  White  Sugar.  4  Eggs. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  till  quite  soft,  then  set  it  to 
boil  till  it  is  the  consistency  of  porridge,  sweeten  to  taste; 
flavour  with  vanilla  or  lemon-peel.  When  cold  whisk  up 
the  eggs  separately,  beat  up  with  the  pudding,  pour  into  a 
Ouffle  mould.   Bake  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  immediately. 


SOUP  {BROWNING  FOR). 

Put  about  four  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of 
butter,  into  a  stewpan ;  set  it  on  the  fire  to  brown,  stirring 
all  the  time  with  a  wooden  spoon  that  it  may  not  burn. 
When  sufficiently  melted,  stir  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water ; 
let  it  boil,  and  skim  well.  When  cold,  bottle  and  cork.  A 
tablespoonful  or  more  will  colour  your  soup. 


SOUP  OR  STOCK  {HOW  TO  CLARIFY). 

About  three  or  four  quarts  of  good  stock  boiled  the 
previous  day,  well  skimmed  j  whites  of  two  eggs,  well 
whisked,  stirred  into  the  stock ;  then  put  on  the  fire  to 
boil.  After  it  has  boiled  up  once,  draw  it  away  from  the 
fire;  pour  in  a  cup  of  cold  water;  let  it  stand  for  five 
minutes ;  strain  through  a  fine  cloth  placed  over  a  sieve ; 
it  will  be  clear  and  good.  Stock  for  clear  soups  must  be 
made  strong,  as  it  loses  strength  by  being  clarified. 
226 


SOUP   (CURRY— BROWN— HARE).  [S 


SOUP  {CURRYX 
(Cape  Recipe.) 
Head  and  feet  of  sheep,  lamb,  or  calf,  boiled  till  quite 
tender  in  three  or  four  quarts  of  water.  The  next  day, 
when  cold,  remove  all  the  fat.  Cut  small,  and  take  out  the 
bones ;  brown  an  onion  in  fat ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
curry  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of 
brown  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar  or  lemon.  Stir 
all  together  in  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat,  etc.,  has  boiled. 
Serve  in  soup  tureen,  with  boiled  rice  handed  round 
separately  on  plate.     A  homely  dish. 

SOUP  {BROWN). 
(My  Mother's  Recipe.) 
Make  a  good  stock  of  either  neck  of  mutton  (three 
pounds  will  make  two  quarts  of  excellent  stock)  or  shin  of 
beef.  Add  some  fried  onions ;  let  all  boil  well  together. 
When  strained,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  brown  flour.  Take  a 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  butter ;  let  it  melt  together 
till  quite  a  dark  brown.  Mix  with  the  flour  a  good  glass 
of  dark  wine,  eight  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  some  pepper, 
bruised  ;  add  all  to  the  soup ;  let  it  boil  for  two  or  three 
hours.  Serve  with  toasted  bread,  cut  like  dice,  and  fried 
in  butter. 

SOUP  {HARE). 
(Home  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

Remains  of  cold  Roast  Hare.  2  oz.  tJrowned  Flour. 

Some  good  Stock.  i  tablespoonful  Brown  Sugar. 

I  doz.  Cloves.  J  pint  Port  Wine. 

J  oz.  whole  Black  Pepper.  a  small  Onions,  Fried. 

Trim  off  the  best  parts  of  the  cold  hare  and  put  on 
one  side.  Chop  all  the  bones,  etc.,  and  simmer  for  an  hour 
in  a  few  quarts  of  stock  flavoured  with  the  above  seasoning. 
Strain  through  a  sieve  on  the  pieces  of  cold  hare ;  let  it 
boil  once.  Serve  with  toasted  bread  or  very  small  square 
fried  sippets. 

Q  3 


S]  SOUP  (MULLIGATAWNY— OX-TAIL). 


SOUP  {MULLIGATAWNY). 

Ingredients. 

1  Fowl  (it  may  be  an  old  one).  i  tablespoonful  of  Brown  Sugar. 

2  oz.  of  Curry  Powder.  i  oz.  of  Tamarinds,  drawn  in  a 
I  dessertspoonful  of  Indian  Curry  cup  of  hot  water. 

Paste.  I  teaspoonful  or  more  of  Salt 

3  Onions.  i  dessertspoonful  of  Chutney. 
I  tablespoonful  of  Butter  or  Fat.  i  tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Cut  up  the  fowl  into  small  pieces,  as  for  chicken  curry; 
if  an  old  one,  let  it  boil  gently  for  four  or  five  hours,  with 
two  or  three  quarts  of  water ;  if  you  have  a  neck  of  mutton, 
or  any  other  meat  that  will  make  some  stock,  you  may 
add  a  little  to  this.  The  next  day  remove  the  fat  and 
strain  the  soup,  putting  back  any  nice  pieces  of  the  fowl. 
A  few  slices  of  ham  may  also  be  added,  to  make  a  good 
stock.  Brown  the  onions,  mix  all  the  ingredients,  add 
to  the  soup,  and  let  it  all  boil  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Send 
in  hot,  with  boiled  rice  on  a  separate  dish. 


SOUP  {OX-TAIL). 

Ingredients. 

2  Ox-tails.  I  bunch  of  Savoury  Herbs. 

J  lb.  of  lean  Ham.  S  Cloves. 

1  head  of  Celery.  i  teaspoonful  of  Peppercorns. 

2  Carrots.  i  Bay  Leaf. 

3  Turnip*.  i  wineglassful  of  Ketchup. 

2  Onioni.  i  wineglassful  of  Port  Wine. 

9  quarts  of  Water. 

Cut  up  the  ox-tails,  separating  the  joints  ;  put  them  in 
a  stewing-pan  with  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter,  one  head 
of  celery,  two  onions,  two  turnips,  two  carrots,  cut  in 
slices,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  cut  very  thin,  the 
peppercorns,  savoury  herbs,  and  one  pint  of  water;  stir 
over  a  quick  fire  for  a  short  time,  to  extract  the  flavour 
of  the  herbs,  until  the  pan  is  covered  with  a  glaze; 
then  pour  in  three  quarts  of  water ;  skim  it  well,  and 
simmer  slowly  for  four  hours,  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
Take   it  out,  strain   the  soup,    stir  in   a   little  browned 


SOUP   (POTATO)— SOUP  1  LA  REINE.  [S 


flour  to  thicken,  add  port  wine,  ketchup,  and  head  of  celery 
(previously  boiled)  cut  fine;  put  the  tails  back  into  the 
stewpan  of  strained  soup ;  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes  and 
serve.  This  soup  can  be  served  clear  by  omitting  the 
flour,  and  adding  to  it  carrots  and  turnips  cut  in  fancy 
shapes.  These  may  be  boiled  in  a  little  soup,  and  put 
into  the  tureen  before  sending  to  table. 


SOUP  {POTATO). 

Ingredients. 

a  quarts  of  White  Stock.  i  Onion. 

6  large  mealy  Potatoes.  Some  White  Pepper. 

I  oz.  of  Butter,  rolled  in  >  A  little  Cayenne, 

tablespoonful  of  Flour.  Salt  to  taste. 
i  teacupful  of  Cream, 

Put  two  quarts  of  white  stock  into  a  stewpan ;  take 
six  large  mealy  potatoes,  boil  and  mash  them  until  they 
are  sufficiently  soft  to  pulp  through  a  sieve,  with  an  onion 
boiled  tender;  add  to  the  stock.  Thicken  with  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne ; 
just  before  serving  stir  in  the  cream,  and  do  not  let  it  boil 
again. 

SOUP  A   LA  REINE. 
(My  own  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
S  quarts  of  nice  White  Stock  (may  be  i  Onion. 

boiled  from  an  old  fowl).  Some  Nutmeg. 

I  cup  of  Fine  Bread-crumbs.  White  Pepper. 

A  large  cup  of  good  Cream. 

Put  an  old  fowl  in  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to 
cover  it  well ;  let  it  simmer  for  three  or  four  hours  ;  if  the 
water  has  diminished,  add  a  little  more  Aot.  About  a 
pound  of  neck  of  mutton,  or  veal,  may  be  added,  and  an 
onion.  Let  it  boil  till  you  have  a  good  stock,  skim  well ; 
let  it  get  cold,  and  strain.  The  next  day,  when  it  has 
boiled  up,  add  the  bread-crumbs,  nutmeg,  pepperj  and 
salt,  and,  just  before  serving,  the  cup  qf' cream.  Can  be 
served  with  toasted  bread  cut  in  dice. 

229 


S]      SOUP   (TOMATO)— SPRITZE— STEAK  (PICKLED). 

SOUP  {TOMATO). 

(My  own  Recipe.) 

Take  about  a  dozen  nice  ripe  tomatoes,  boil  quite 
tender,  with  an  onion ;  mash,  and  strain.  Add  to  two 
quarts  of  good  stock  ;  thicken  with  a  pat  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour ;    flavour  with  a  green  chilli,  cut   up,  just  before 

serving. 

SOUP  {STRENGTHENING).— See  Invalid  Cookery. 

SOUP  FOR  INVALIDS.^See  Invalid  Cookery. 

SPRITZE. 

(Another  Dutch  SpecialitL) 

Ingredients. 
3  lb.  of  Flour,  i  lb.  Butter, 

lo  Eggs.  a  bottles  of  Milk. 

Boil  the  butter  and  milk,  stir  in  the  flour  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Pour  the  paste  in  a  dish,  arid  when 
cold  mix  ten  eggs  with  it ;  beat  well  till  it  drops  clean  off 
a  spoon.  Let  it  drop  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  lard  or 
fat  in  tiny  balls.  Fry  a  nice  brown.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  pounded  and  sifted  cinnamon.  The  old  Dutch  people 
had  a  tin  through  which  they  pressed  the  dough  into  the 
boiling  fat 

(Another  recipe  says,  one  pound  of  flour  to  eight  eggs, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  one  pint  of  milk.) 

STEAK  {PICKLED). 

Lay  two  pounds  of  steak  in  a  dish  with  sliced  onions, 
half  a  dozen  cloves,  two  dozen  whole  pepper,  a  bay  leaf, 
sprig  of  thyme,  marjoram,  and  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of 
salad  oil,  tarragon  vinegar  enough  just  to  come  up  to  the 
steak ;  let  it  soak  for  twelve  hours,  turning  occasionally. 
Then  take  it  out,  and  grill  the  steak  in  a  hot  pan,  turning 
constantly.  Stew  the  mixture,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  let  the  steak  simmer  in  it,  taking  out  the  spices,  etc., 
before  serving  in  a  hot  dish.     Enough  for  six  people. 

STUFFING  FOR   TURKEY  OR   CHICKEN.— See  ix^^ol 

Recipe  for  Turkey  (Boiled). 
«30 


■SWARTZUIR"— SYLLABUB— SYRUP   (LEMON).       [S 


"  SWARTZUIR? 
(A  homely  Cape  Dish.) 

Ingredients. 
S  lb.  of  Ribs  of  MuHoa  6  Cloves. 

1  Onion.  la  Peppereorns,  finely  bruised, 

s  oz.  of  Tamaripds.  \  tablespoonful  of  Brown  Sugar. 

Salt. 

Cut  the  meat  as  you  would  for  curry,  put  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  onion  and  a  pint  of  water.  When  it  has 
simmered  for  an  hour  take  out  a  cup  of  the  boiling  stock, 
skimming  the  top  so  as  to  remove  all  the  fatty  particles. 
Stir  into  this  boiling  soup  a  large  cup  of  fine  flour ;  stir 
well  over  the  fire  till  it  is  a  thick  dough,  now  set  it  to 
cool.  When  quite  cold  work  into  the  dough  one  or  two 
*ggs  ;  of  this  make  dumplings  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

After  this  cup  of  soup  has  been  taken  from  the  meat, 
stir  into  it  the  tamarinds  soaked  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
spices,  etc.;  let  it  boil  well,  and  half  an  hour  before  serving 
stir  in  the  dumplings.  Serve  as  an  entree.  The  old  recipe 
had  the  blood  of  a  duck  instead  of  tamarinds. 

SWEETS.— For  list  see  Note  at  end  of  S,  p.  333. 

SYLLABUB. 

(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Recipe.) 

Jngredients. 

i  pint  of  White  Wine.  2  oz.  Loaf  Sugar. 

I  pint  of  Rich  Cream.  Juiee  and  Peel  of  a  small  Lemon. 

Rub  the  sugar  on  the  peel  to  extract  all  the  flavour 
from  the  peel,  then  add  to  the  cream,  and  whisk  well. 
Take  about  one  ounce  of  sifted  sugar  and  add  it  the 
last  thing,  as  it  tends  to  make  the  cream  thicker.  Put 
into  glasses.     Excellent. 

For  another  Syllabub  Recipe  sit  TRiFLfc 

SYRUP  {LEMON). 

(An  old  Cape  Recipe.) 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  fifty  lemons,  and  for  every  quart 

of  lemon  juice  take  three  pounds  of  sugar,     Let  the  lemon 

juice  and   sugar  dissolve  in  an  earthen  jar    placed    in 

«3« 


S]  SYRUP  (LEMON)— SALAD— SANDWICHES. 


a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  simmer  in  this  manner 
till  all  the  sugar  is  melted  and  the  whole  a  rich,  thick 
syrup.  Bottle  when  cold,  and  cork  well.  The  lemon 
juice  to  be  strained  before  mixing  with  the  sugar.  A 
delicious  drink  in  hot  weather. 

SYRUP  (ANOTHER  LEMON). 
(G.  Versfeld.) 

Ingredients. 

61b.  of  Sugar,  and  4  bottles  of  Water,        «  oz.  Tartaric  Acid  dissolred  in  ■ 
boiled  to  a  Syrup,  and  strained.  tumbler  of  Water, 

i  teaspoonful  of  Oil  of  Lemon. 

Stir  all  together;  let  it  settle,  then  bottle  and  cork 
well.  A  little  taken  with  soda  water,  or  in  plain  water,  is 
very  refreshing  in  summer, 

[Note  to  Salads,  p.  213. — The  following  is  a  Dutch  recipe  for 
Herring  Salad.] 

Ingredients. 

3  large  Salted  Herrings  or  Harders.         i  tablespoonfiil  of  Chopped  Parsley. 
a  Spanish  Onions.  i  dessertspoonful  of  Salad  Oil. 

Pepper  and  Vinegar. 

Soak  the  harders  in  cold  water  for  a  night ;  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Separate  the  fish  from  the  bones;  slice  the 
onions  thinly,  scald  with  boiling  water ;  mix  fish,  onions, 
and  other  ingredients ;  garnish  with  hard-boiled  egg  and 
parsley.  Penguin  eggs,  hard-boiled,  may  be  added  to  the 
fish.     This  makes  a  good  supper  dish. 

[Note  to  Sandwiches,  p.  213.— The  following  are  good  recipes.] 

SANDWICHES  {PLAIN  MEAT). 

Cut  very  thinly  slices  of  bread  and  butter  from  a 
square  loaf  baked  in  a  tin,  and  place  very  thin  slices  of 
ham,  tongue,  biltong,  or  game  between  them  ;  season  with 
salt  and  mustard  or  pepper ;  press  them  on  a  board  with 
the  blade  of  a  large  knife.  Cut  the  crust  off  evenly,  and 
divide  them  into  oblong  squares. 


SANDWICHES— SWEETS.  [S 


Ordinary  cold  meat  sandwiches  are  much  improved  by 
the  meat  being  minced,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  and  a  little 
parsley,  both  chopped  fine,  being  mixed  with  the  meat, 
and  placed  between  the  bread  and  butter.  Many  people 
dislike  the  mixture  of  mustard  and  butter,  so  it  is  generally 
best  to  omit  the  former.  A.  sprinkling  of  pepper,  if  liked, 
is  ar  improvement 

SANDWICHES  (EGG). 

Two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  mashed  very  finely,  and 
mixed  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  some  pepper  and  salt. 
Spread  liberally  on  the  bread  and  butter  (cut  as  for  an 
ordinary  sandwich)  with  a  sprinkling  of  watercress  (cut 
sniall)  or  mustard  and  cress.  The  eggs  may  also  be  cut 
thinly  and  laid  between  the  bread  and  butter,  with  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  cress. 

SANDWICHES  {SAVOURY). 

Very  savoury  sandwiches  may  be  made  of  bloater  paste, 
etc.,  according  to  recipe  (p.  12),  and  boned  anchovies  and 
hard-boiled  eggs. 

For  afternoon  tea,  sandwiches  made  with  jam,  or  slices 
of  cucumber,  with  lettuce,  or  thin  omelet,  make  a  nice 
variety  to  ordinary  bread  and  butter. 

[Note,  Sweets,  p.  231.] 

SWEETS. 

.?«  Apples,  Blancmange,  Cake  (Tipsy),  Charlotte  Russe.  Cheese- 
cakes, Chippolata,  Cocoanut,  Creams,  Custard,  Deliciosa,  Dick's  Dish 
Jellies  Mermgues,  Omelet  (Sweet),  Pancakes,  Puddings,  Souffle  (Egg)! 
TartTecs.  '^  ^    ^^"^^  ^'"^  ^"*''*^'  Tamelettjes,  Tms, 


■S3 


T. 


"  TAMELETTJES. 
(A  favourite  Cape  Sweet.) 

For  two  basins  of  sugar  take  one  basin  of  water,  botl 
into  a  syrup,  clarify  with  an  f^g'g,  boil  briskly  till  it  is  all 
frothy;  then  fill  little  square  paper  shapes  or  ramaquin 
cases  with  this,  after  having  mixed  it  with  some  almonds 
and  grated  lemon-peel,  or  naartje  (Tangerine  orange)  peel. 
Let  it  cool  before  serving. 

TAPIOCA.— See  RiCE  Milk. 

TART  {APPLE). 
(Recipe  from  an  old  German  Cookery  Book.) 


Ingr$dients, 

Puff  Paste. 

i  lb.  Butter. 

Apples. 

4  Eggs. 

Almonds. 

I  cup  Sugar. 

I  pint  Milk. 

Pounded  Cinnamon. 

Line  a  tin  dish  with  puff  paste,  peel  and  quarter  one 
dozen  apples,  lay  them  in  the  dish,  also  some  blanched  and 
pounded  almonds,  half  a  bottle  of  milk,  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  four  eggs,  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  some  cinnamon 
to  taste,  all  mixed  together,  poured  into  the  dish  covering 
the  apples.  Bake  in  an  oven  for  an  hour  and,  more.  I 
have  found  that  anything  requiring  some  time  to  bake 
must  be  covered  with  a  tin  plate  at  first,  which  can  be 
removed  when  half-done. 

«3y 


T]  TART  (COCOA-NUT— MILK). 

TART  {COCOA-NUT). 

("  Klapper-Taart."    From  a  very  old  Dutch  Book.) 

Rasp  two  cocoa-nuts  into  their  weight  in  sugar,  add  a 
good  spoonful  of  butter,  a  cup  of  milk,  and  some  cinnamon. 
Boil  all  together  till  it  is  quite  stiff;  then  line  a  tart-dish 
with  puff  paste,  and  pour  the  mixture  in.  Bake  for  half 
an  hour.     Very  good. 

TART  {COCOA-NUT),  ANOTHER   WAY. 
(Old  Dutch  Recipe.) 

Grate  the  cocoa-nut  very  fine,  take  the  weight  in  sugar, 
half  an  ounce  of  butter,  one  &^g,  white  and  yolk  whisked 
separately,  some  cinnamon.  Mix  well  together;  line  a 
tart-dish  (ordinary  tin  kitchen  plate)  with  puff  paste.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  till  a  nice  brown. 

Another  way  is  to  boil  the  cocoa-nut  in  a  syrup  made 
from  the  sugar,  and  when  cold  add  the  egg  and  butter;  but 
the  first  has  been  tried  and  is  very  good. 

TART  {MJLK), 
(Old  Dutch  Sp^cialiU.) 

Ingredients. 
I  pint  of  Milk.  A  tablespoonfiil  of  Maizena. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar.  2  Eggs. 

A  tablespoonful  of  Butter.  A  stick  of  Cinnamon. 

Boil  the  milk  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  stir  butter  and 
maizena  and  a  little  cold  milk  together,  pour  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  basin,  and 
when  cold  add  two  eggs  well  whisked.  Line  a  tart-dish 
with  paste,  pour  in  this  mixture,  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes. 

338 


TART  (DUTCH   POTATO).  [T 


TART  (DUTCH  POTATO). 

^"  Aardappelen  Taart."*     Mrs.  Myburgh,  from  an  old  Dutch  Recipe 

Book.) 

Ingredients, 

I  If>.  Potatoes.  10  Sweet  Almonds. 

J  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  25  Bitter  Almonds. 

8  Eggs.  Some  Rose-water. 

Boil  the  potatoes  well,  mash  very  fine ;  beat  the  yolks 
and  whites  separately;  mix  the  yolks  with  the  sugar;  then 
add  potatoes,  then  the  whites,  and  lastly  almonds,  blanched 
and  pounded  with  rose-water.  Weigh  the  potatoes  before 
you  peel  and  boil  them.  Bake  as  you  would  a  sponge- 
cake in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour. 


TART  {ANOTHER  POTATO). 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Potatoes  (weighed  before  20  Bitter  Almonds. 

peeling).  4  'b-  Sugar. 

i8o  Sweet  Almonds.  8  Eggs. 

Mix  like  the  other.     Line  a  tart-dish  with  puff  paste 
and  fill  with  this  mixture.     Bake  a  nice  brown. 


TART  (POTATO). 
(A  similar  Recipe.    Cape.    Mrs.  Myburgh.) 

Ingredients. 

\  lb.  Potatoes  (boiled  and  6  well-beaten  Eggs, 

well  mashed).  100  Sweet  Almonds. 

i  lb.  Sugar.  =5  Bitter  Almonds. 
Rose-water. 

Blanch  and  pound  the  almonds  with  rose-water,  mix 
with  the  sugar;  stir  in  the  potatoes.  Bake  in  a  pie-dish 
lined  with  puff  paste, 

«39 


T]  TART  (WALNUT)— TEA  CAKES. 


TART  {WALNUT). 
(An  old  German  Cake.    Mrs.  Van  der  Riet) 

Ingredienti. 
A  Stale  Sponge  Cake.  i  pint  of  Milk. 

100  Walnuts.  ■  Eggs. 

I  spoonful  of  Sugar. 

Take  a  hundred  walnuts  (or  a  grated  cocoa-nut) ;  shell 
and  pound  the  walnuts — it  should  be  a  teacupful.  Make  a 
custard  of  the  milk  and  eggs,  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar. 
Add  the  pounded  walnuts,  stirring  until  it  thickens,  then 
pour  into  a  basin  to  cool.  Cut  your  cake  in  slices  (a  plain 
round  mould  is  best),  putting  them  together  carefully; 
then  put  the  bottom  piece  on  a  dish,  cover  it  with  some  of 
the  walnut  custard,  put  the  next  slice  so  as  to  fit,  and  put 
on  some  custard,  and  so  on  till  the  cake  is  built  up  again. 
Of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  make  an  icing.  Ice  the  whole 
cake;  ornament  the  top  with  pieces  of  walnut  and  some 
little  bits  of  icing  coloured  with  cochineal.  If  cocoa-nut  is 
used  instead  of  walnuts,  boil  it  with  sugar  into  a  syrup,  as 
you  do  cocoa-nut  ice.  An  excellent  way  of  using  up  a 
stale  sponge  cake. 

TARTLETS  (.MARMALADE  CREAM). 

Line  some  patty-pans  with  puff  paste :  now  fill  them 
with  this  mixture :  one  tablespoonful  of  apricot  marmalade, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  white,  the  weight  of  one  egg  in 
butter  and  in  sugar.  Whip  all  to  a  cream  ;  put  into  the  little 
tins.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

"  TASSAL."~See  Note  at  end  of  T,  p.  246. 

TEA.— See  Note  at  end  of  T,  p.  246. 

TEA    CAKES  {EXCELLENT  TEA    BISCUITS). 
(Miss  Becker's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
1  lb.  of  Crystallised  Sugar.  3  Eggs. 

I  lb'  of  BmtP;  X  !^^^P°°"  °f  Ponded  Rock  Ammonia. 

4  lb.  01  Butter.  I  teaspoon  of  Vanilla  Essence. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  with  the  sugar,  then  add 
whites  and  vanilla;  mix  the  ammon     dry  wi^t^  ^he  flour 
240 


TEA  CAKES  ("BUTTER  BISCUITS  "—GERMAN).     [T 


then  mix  all  well  together,  like  dough  for  bread ;  roll 
between  the  hands  pieces  of  the  dough,  and  cut  with  a 
knife  to  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes. 

TEA   CAKES  {"BUTTER  BISCUITS'^. 

Imgredients. 
3  lb.  of  Flour.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded  Rock 

I  lb.  of  Sugar.  Ammonia,  or  Sal  Volatile. 

}  lb.  of  Butter.  3  tablespoonfuls  of  Caraway  Seeds, 

S  Eggs.  slightly  bruised. 

1  tumblerful  of  Cold  Water. 

Whisk  up  the  eggs  and  mix  with  butter  and  sugar ; 
then  mix  all  up  together.  Knead  well,  roll  out  with 
rolling-pin,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  make  into  shapes  with 
a  wineglass,  or  any  other  mould.  Bake  for  half  an  hour 
on  buttered  tins. 

TEA  CAKES  {"COOKIES"). 
(Mrs.  Fleming's  Book.) 
Mix  together  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  pound  of 
flour,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda ;  rub 
into  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Make  into  a  soft 
paste  with  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a  dessertspoonful 
of  cream  or  milk  ;  essence  of  almonds  to  taste.  Roll  out 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  with  a  wineglass.  Bake  ten 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

TEA   CAKES  {GERMAN). 
(Miss  Becker's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  of  Butter.  S°  Almonds. 

I  lb.  of  Sugar.  |  lb.  of  Currants, 

9  Kggs.  I  teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon. 

I  lb.  of  Flour.  4  teaspoonful  of  Rock  Ammonia, 

Stir  the  butter  to  a  cream ;  mix  well  with  fine  white 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  nine  eggs  and  whites  of  two;  beat 
with  sugar  and  butter;  then  one  pound  of  flovr,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  finely  powdered  rock  ammonia.  Butter 
some  paper,  and  put  into  pans  in  a  quick  oven ,  drop  the 

K 

34.. 


T]       TEA  CAKES  (HILDA'S— RICE— ROCK  CAKES). 


mixture  with  a  spoon  on  the  paper,  and  sprinkle'  over 
the  top  cut-up  almonds,  mixed  with  the  currants,  cinnamon, 
and  crystallised  sugar.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Most 
delicious  little  cakes. 

TEA   CAKES  {HILDA'S). 

Ingredients. 
t  lb.  Flour.  I  doz.  Cloves,  pounded. 

I  lb.  Sugar.  A  teaspoonful  of  Sifted  Cinnamon. 

4  Eggs.  .  A  teaspoonfil  of  Soda. 

i  lb.  Butter.  A  teaspoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar. 

t5  Almonds. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  and  whites  well.  Mix  with  the 
butter  and  sugar  and  the  almonds  pounded ;  add  the  soda, 
cream  of  tartar,  and  spices  to  the  flour  dry  ;  mix  all  well 
with  the  hand,  and  put  on  buttered  pans,  about  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  with  the  point  of  a  knife.  Bake  for  twenty 
minutes. 

TEA   CAKES  (RfCE). 

Ingredients. 
I  tea-cup  of  Ground  Rice.  Essence  of  Vanilla  or  Almonds, 

a  Eggs.  I  tea-cup  of  Sifted  Sugar. 

Whisk  up  the  sugar  and  eggs  in  a  round  basin  well ; 
then  add  rice ;  whisk  for  twenty  minutes ;  add  an  eggspoon 
of  essence ;  put  a  teaspoonful  in  patty  tins ;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  from  five  to  ten  minutes. 

TEA   CAKES  {ROCK  CAKES). 
(Miss  Lilla  Spence's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  Butter.  i  lb.  of  Currants. 

1  lb.  Flour.  \  a  tumbler  of  Brandy  (or  Whits 

I  lb.  Moist  Sugar.  Wine), 

a  Eggs.  Some  Lemon-PeeL 

JO  Pounded  Almonds. 

Whisk  butter  with  the  sugar,  then  yolks  and  whites  of 
eggs.  Mix  all  the  other  ingredients  with  the  flour ;  knead 
into  the  eggs  and  butter;  lastly,  mix  the  brandy  or  wine; 
drop  on  buttered  paper  in  tins,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

043 


TEA  CAKES  (SPONGE)— TOAD  IN  THE  HOLE       [T 

TEA   CAKES  {SPONGE). 

Ingredients. 

6  Bggs.  The  Grated  Rind  of  9  Lemons  or 

\  lb.  of  Flour.  Naartje-Peel  (Tangerine  Orange). 

S  lb.  Sugar. 

Whisk  the  yolks  well  with  the  sugar  till  it  rises   in 

bubbles,  then  the  whites  stiffly ;  then  add  flour  and  peel. 

Bake  in  little  tins,  well  buttered,  in  a  moderate  oven  for 

half  an  hour. 

TEA  CAKES  {" ZOETE  KOEKIES*^. 

(Very  old  Dutch  Recipe.    Mrs.  Van  der  Riet.) 

Ingredients. 

4  lb.  of  Flour.  4  Eggs. 

3  lb.  of  good  clear  Brown  Sugar.  i  tablespoonful  of  Potash  or  Car- 
I  lb.  of  Butter.  bonate  of  Soda. 

\  lb.  of  Sheep-tail  Fat.  I  tablespoonful  of  Cloves  (finely 
I  lb.   of  Pounded  Almonds  (or  pounded). 

200  Almonds  pounded  without  3  tablespoon fuls  of  Cinnamon. 

blanching).  A  tumbler  of  Dark  Wine  (Claret). 

First  rub  flour,  sugar,  butter,  spices,  and  soda  well 
together;  lastly,  add  the  wine;  knead  all  well  together. 
If  potash  is  used,  it  must  be  dissolved  in  the  wine — is  best 
mixed  over-night.  Roll  the  dough  out  with  a  rolling-pin ; 
make  into  shapes  with  a  wineglass  or  any  thin  shape. 
Bake  on  buttered  tins.  The  old  Dutch  people  put  a  small 
piece  of  citron  preserve  in  the  centre  of  each  little  cake. 
Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  tolerably  brisk  oven.  Very  good. 

TEA  CAKES.— See  also  "  Obletjes,"  Scones  and  Cakes,  Puffs 
and  Sandwiches. 

TOAD  IN  THE  HOLE. 
(An  economical  dish  for  a  large  family.) 

Ingredients. 
■  lbs.  Loin  of  Mutton.  i  pint  of  Skim  Milk,  or  Butter-milk. 

An  eggspoon  of  Pepper.  x  oz.  or  more  of  melted  Suet  or 

A  dust  of  Nutmeg.  clarified  Dripping. 

A  tablespoonful  of  Flour.  Half  a  teaspoonful  of  Carbonate  of 

A  tablespoonful  of  Tomato  Sauce.  Soda,  stirred  into  the  dry  flour. 

A  batter  made  oIt.%  cups  of  Flour. 

Cut  the  mutton  in  cutlet  shapes,  roll  in  flour,  salt,  and 
spices  ;  lay  them  in  a  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  spoon- 
ful of  tomato  sauce  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  water.  Mix 
up  the  batter,  and  pour  on  the  top.  Put  the  pie-dish  in  the 
oven.    Takes  one  and  a  half  hours  to  bake. 

•43 


r]    TOMATO  BREDEE— TOMATO  STUFFED— TRIFLE. 

TOMATO  BREDEE. 
(Cape.  H.  D.) 
Cut  up  two  pounds  of  ribs  of  mutton  and  an  onion  ;  let 
it  stew  in  a  flat  pot  for  an  hour.  Cut  up  and  add 
eight  or  ten  tomatoes  in  slices,  also  a  teaspoonful  ot  salt, 
a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  half  a  red  chilli.  If  there  is  a 
great  deal  of  liquid,  remove  the  lid,  and  let  it  simmer  till  it 
is  all  a  rich,  creamy-looking  sauce.  Remove  the  fat.  Serve 
with  plain  boiled  rice.    A  very  nice  entrh.     See  Bredee. 


TOMATO  STUFFED. 

Extract  some  of  the  inside  of  the  tomato  ;  mix  bread- 
crumbs, cheese  chopped,  onion,  and  pepper,  with  an  egg. 
Stuff  the  tomato  with  this  mixture;  sprinkle  over  with 
bread-crumbs  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Bake  for  an  hour. 
Tomatoes  plainly  cut  in  halves  and  sprinkled  with  crumbs 
and  butter,  and  fried  or  baked  in  the  oven,  make  a  very 
nice  vegetable. 

TRIFLE. 
(Mrs.  Etheridge's  Book.) 

Ingredients. 

1  tumbler  of  Madeira  or  Sherry.  J^  lb.  of  Macaroons. 

2  wineglasses  of  French  Brandy.  i  pint  of  rich  Boiled  Custard. 
4  Sponge  Biscuits.                                        I  pint  of  Syllabub. 

Soak  four  sponge  biscuits  and  half  a  pound  of  maca- 
roons in  the  Madeira  and  French  brandy.  Then  cover 
the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  with  half  of  these,  pour  over 
them  a  pint  of  rich  custard  previously  made,  then  lay 
the  remainder  of  the  soaked  biscuits  upon  them,  and 
pile  over  the  whole,  to  the  depth  of  two  or  three  inches, 
the  whipped  syllabub,  well  drained  ;  the  whipped  syllabub 
to  be  made  the  day  before,  or  some  hours  before,  as  fol- 
lows :  Take  half  a  pint  of  cream,  half  a  glass  of  light  wine, 
and  a  dessertspoonful  of  sifted  sugar ;  take  a  clean  dry 
whisk,  and  whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  wine, 
adding  the  sugar  last  of  all.  When  the  wine  has  drained 
to  the  bottom,  carefully  skim  the  light,  frothy  cream,  and 
pack  it  on  the  top  of  the  last  layer  of  macaioons.   Excellent, 


TOFFEE  (COCOA-NUT)— TURKEY  (BOILED).         [7 


TOFFEE  {COCOA-NUT), 

Ingredients. 
I  Cocoa-nut.  x  lb.  Sugar. 

QrsXt  Afresh  cocoa-nut ;  boil  the  sugar  with  the  milk  of 
the  cocoa-nut  and  a  cup  of  water ;  when  nice  and  thick, 
add  the  grated  cocoa-nut.  Stir  all  the  time,  till  you  see  it 
coming  quite  clear  off  from  the  sides,  then  take  oif.  Grease 
the  dishes  on  which  you  pour  it,  mark  it  out  with  a  knife 
in  squares,  and  let  it  get  cold.     Very  good. 

TURKEY  {BOILED). 

Hen  turkeys  are  preferable  for  boiling,  on  account  of 
their  whiteness  and  tenderness.  They  should  not  be 
dressed  until  they  have  been  hung  two  or  three  days,  as 
they  will  not  be  tender.  Pluck  the  bird  carefully,  and 
singe  with  a  piece  of  paper  ;  wash  well,  and  wipe  with  a 
dry  cloth ;  cut  off  head  and  neck ;  draw  the  strings,  or 
sinews,  of  the  thighs ;  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first  joint, 
draw  the  legs  into  the  body,  and  fill  the  breast  with  force- 
meat, or  stuffing ;  run  skewers  through  wing  and  middle 
joint  of  leg  quite  into  wing  and  leg  on  opposite  side ;  break 
the  breastbone,  and  make  the  bird  look  as  round  as  possible. 

Way  of  cooking. — Put  the  turkey  into  sufficient  kot 
water  to  cover  it,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  carefully 
remove  all  scum ;  if  this  is  attended  to  there  is  no  occasion 
to  boil  the  bird  in  a  floured  cloth,  but  it  should  be  well 
covered  with  water.  Let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  one  and 
a  quarter  to  one  and  three-quarter  hours,  according  to  the 
size,  and  serve  with  either  white,  celery,  oyster,  or  mush- 
room sauce,  a  little  of  which  should  be  poured  over  the 
turkey.  Boiled  ham,  bacon,  tongue,  or  sausages  should 
accompany  this  dish ;  and  when  oyster  sauce  is  served, 
the  turkey  is  always  stuffed  with  oyster  forcemeat. 

A  simple  stuffing  for  Turkey. — Soak  a  penny  loaf  of 
stale  bread  in  either  milk  or  water,  press  well;  take  a 
good  lump  of  butter  or  suet,  a  little  sugar,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
salt,  some  sweet  herbs,  an  egg.  Mix  all  well  together,  and 
stuff  turkey  or  fowl. 

345 


T]  "TASSAL"— TEA, 


[Note. — "  Tassal "  is  an  old-fashioned  up-counby  way  of  curing 
meat  in  the  open  air  popular  with  travellers.] 

«  TASSAL? 

Take  any  meat,  beef,  venison,  springbok,  etc.  Cut  the 
meat  in  long  strips  about  three  inches  thick,  sprinkle 
slightly  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  coriander  seed  (bruised), 
and  vinegar  ;  leave  for  a  day,  then  hang  to  dry ;  if  wanted, 
just  soak  a  little  and'  grill  on  the  coals. 

The  Boers  and  travellers  find  it  most  nourishing  in 
travelling,  when  fresh  meat  cannot  be  procured. 


TEA   (TO  MAKE   GOOD). 

Be  very  careful  to  rinse  the  teapot  with  boiling  water. 
Allow  a  teaspoon  of  tea  for  each  person  and  one  for  the 
teapot,  pour  boiling  water  into  the  pot,  let  it  stand  for  five 
or  six  minutes.  Then  pour  it  off  into  your  silver  teapot, 
and  keep  hot  with  a  cosy  by  the  fire  for  late-comers. 

On  no  account  keep  tea  standing  on  the  leaves  for 
more  than  ten  minutes.  The  Dutch  people  often  improve 
their  tea  by  collecting  the  orange-blossoms  in  the  season, 
and  keeping  them  with  their  tea  in  the  caddy. 


»-»fi 


V. 
VANDERHUM.—See  LiQUXUS. 

VEAL  CAKE. 

Ingredients. 

3  lb.  Veal,  i  lb.  of  Bread-crumbs, 

}lb.  Pork.  Salt,  Pepper,  CayenoA 

A  few  Qoves,  pounded. 

Mix  all  well  together  with  a  couple  of  raw  eggs,  put 
into  a  plain  mould,  steam  for  two  hours,  then  put  into  an 
oven  to  dry  a  little;  turn  out  when  cold.  Cut  in  slices. 
A  nice  luncheon  dish. 

Mutton  done  in  the  same  way  is  very  good  to  eat  hot. 

VEAL  {ROAST  FILLET  OF). 

For  an  8  lb.  fillet,  take  out  the  bone  and  fill  up  with  the 
following  stuffing :  J  lb.  of  suet,  i  lb.  of  bread-crumbs 
soaked  in  milk,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  an  egg  or  two ;  mix  all  well  together.  Skewer  up  the 
joint  in  a  round  form  (larding  it  with  nice  fresh  bacon  is  a 
great  improvement) ;  cover  the  veal  with  a  buttered  paper ; 
let  it  roast  very  gently ;  baste  it  well  with  some  butter  or 
fat.  About  half  an  hour  before  serving,  pour  over  the 
joint  half  a  tumbler  of  wine,  with  a  teaspponful  of  flour 
mixed  in  it,  which  makes  a  nice  rich  gravy.  (Takes  three 
hours  in  an  oven.) 

2SI 


V]        VENISON— VEGETABLE   MARROW  STUFFED. 


VENISON. 
(My  own  Recipe.) 

The  "  Duiker "  is  considered  very  good,  and  also  the 
"  Springbok,"  which,  however,  is  very  rare  in  the  western 
province  of  South  Africa. 

The  forequarter  is  generally  used  for  "Buck  soup"; 
the  saddle  (cut  like  a  saddle  of  mutton)  being  the  best 
joint  for  roasting,  and  must  hang  for  six  or  seven  days. 
After  the  outer  skin  is  taken  off,  there  still  remains  a 
thin  white  fleece,  which  must  be  taken  off  before  larding 
the  venison.  Take  a  firm  piece  of  fat  bacon  cut  into  equal 
strips,  and  proceed  to  lard  either  with  a  larding-needle  or 
pointed  knife.  Venison  is  much  nicer  roasted  in  a  flat 
Dutch  baking-pot,  with  a  good  piece  of  butter  and  a  spoonful 
of  good  lard  or  fat.  Put  the  joint  on  with  a  little  water. 
If  a  saddle,  turn  it  upper  side  down  at  first,  and  an  hour  after- 
wards put  some  wood-coals  on  the  cover  of  the  pot  Having 
basted  the  joint  well,  roast  it  a  nice  brown,  and  half  an 
hour  before  serving  pour  over  it  a  tumbler  of  dark  wine 
and  a  little  vinegar,  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  mixed 
in  them.  Stir  the  gravy  well.  This  gives  a  nice  glaze  to 
the  meat,  and  imparts  a  very  good  flavour.  If  done  in  an 
oven,  cover  the  joint  with  a  buttered  paper  and  baste 
frequently. 

The  "  Steenbok  "  and  "  Grysbok  "  are  very  plentiful  in 
some  districts,  and  are  very  good  to  eat  too. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW  STUFFED. 
{Enir^t.    Mrs.  D.  Cloete's  Recipe.) 

Ingredients. 
I  lb.  VeaL  Pepper,  Salt,  Parsley. 

\  lb.  Ham,  or  Good  Bacon.  A  few  Sweet  Herb*, 

a  Eggs.  2  oz.  Butter, 

aoz.  Bread-crumbs. 

Mince  veal  and  ham  together,  pound  to  a  paste  in  a 
mortar  slightly  rubbed  with  garlic,  pass  through  a  coarse 
sieve ;   put  back  into  the  mortar,  work  into  the  paste  the 


VEGETABLE  MARROW— VEGETABLES  (SAVOURY).  [V 


butter,  bread-crumbs,  spices,  the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs, 
and  the  flavouring.  Cut  average-sized  vegetable  marrows 
(the  small,  pretty-shaped  ones)  into  halves,  scoop  out  the 
seeds,  etc.,  fill  with  the  above  mixture.  Wrap  up  each 
marrow  in  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  tied  with  a  string,  lay 
them  all  closely  together  in  a  buttered  tin,  cover  this  with 
a  tin  plate,  and  put  in  the  oven.  When  you  think  they 
are  done,  remove  the  paper  carefully,  lay  them  in  a  dish, 
and  serve  with  a  nicely-flavoured  gravy  made  with  a  little 
stock,  thickened  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  glass  of 
wine  or  a  little  lemon  mixed  just  before  serving. 


VEGETABLE  MARROW  AS  AN  I  MIT  A  TION  OF  APPLES. 
(Cape.    Our  own  Recipe.) 

Take  a  large  vegetable  marrow — the  white  kind,  with 
lumps  all  over  the  outside — cut  it  in  thin  slices,  after 
having  peeled  and  taken  out  the  soft  pulp  and  seeds. 
Proceed  to  slice  it  very  thinly.  Butter  an  enamelled  pot ;  ■ 
put  layers  of  this  sliced  vegetable  marrow,  and  sugar  (for 
one  good-sized  marrow  take  a  large  breakfast-cup  of 
sugar),  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  bread-crumbs,  ten 
cloves,  a  tumbler  of  wine  and  vinegar  mixed — pour  the 
wine  over  the  last  layer  of  vegetable  marrow  and  sugar — 
also  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  the  stewpan  simmer  for  two 
hours,  stirring  carefully  for  fear  of  burning.  Very  good 
with  roast  duck  or  goose. 

VEGETABLES  {SAVOURY\ 

Take  a  young  heart-shaped  cabbage,  parboil,  and  lay 
it  on  a  dish  and  cut  it  in  half,  carefully  remove  the  inside, 
stuff  the  cavity  with  nicely-flavoured  mince,  or  a  prepara- 
tion as  for  "Frickadel"  (see  p.  75);  put  the  two  halves 
together,  and  tie  with  a  piece  of  tape  and  a  thin  skewer, 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  stock,  and  a  few  pieces 
of  bacon;  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour  or  more.  Serve  nice 
and  hot.     A  slice  of  toast  or  some  crumb  of  bread  in  a 

253 


V]  VEGETABLES   (SAVOURY). 

muslin  bag,  placed  in  the  water  in  which  cabbage  is 
boiled  or  stewed,  absorbs  the  pecuh'ar  cabbage  smell  out 
of  the  water  which  is  so  disagreeable,  and  the  muslin  bag 
can  be  thrown  away  when  the  vegetable  is  dished. 


254 


Y. 


YEAST  (FOR  MAKING  HOME-MADE  BREAD). 
(Our  own  Recipe.) 

Take  two  quarts  of  boilinfj  water,  an  ounce  of  salt, 
three  cups  of  meal.  Put  the  salt  into  a  saucepan,  pour  on 
it  the  boiling'  water,  strew  on  it  gradually  three  cups  of 
meal,  then  cover  closely,  putting  a  cloth  between  the  lid 
and  pot  to  absorb  the  steam.  Set  it  over-night  in  the 
warmest  corner  of  your  stove.  At  six  o'clock  next 
morning  stir  into  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water;  stand  the 
saucepan  on  some  hot  ashes,  and  soon  it  will  begin  to 
ferment.  When  ready  for  use  it  will  have  a  frothy 
appearance  and  a  disagreeable  odour.  Pour  it  into  six 
pounds  of  meal,  mix  with  warm  water,  and  knpad  into 
bread. 

"  YORKSHIRE   PUDDING.'^—See  PUDDINGS. 


261 


z. 

"ZOETE  KOEKIES.'—See  Tv.A  Cakes. 

'•■ZOETE  KRAKELING"  {SWEET  CRACKNELS). 
(Old  Dutch.) 

Ingredients. 

I  lb.  Flour,  3  Eggs. 

I  lb.  Sugar.  A  tablespoonful  of  Cinnamon. 

]l  lb.  Batter.  A  teaspoonful  of  Potash. 

Roll  out  and  make  in  shapes  like  the  figure  8,  and 
bake  on  flat  pans  for  twenty  minutes. 


26; 


OPINIONS   OF  THE   PRESS 

ON 

HILDA'S   "WHERE   IS    IT?" 


The  Sunday  Times  says  :— "  Urder  this  very  curious  tide,  Miss  Hilda- 
gonda  J.  Duckitt  has  writtrn  one  of  the  most  delightful  volumes  of  recipes 
ever  printed.  How  many  are  there  who  have  travelled  that  do  not  regret, 
when  back  in  London,  that  they  neglected  to  take  the  receipt  of '  that  delicious 
vegetable  curry  at  Colombo,'  that  green  tomato  omelette  at  the  Mauritius,  that 
kidgeree  in  Bombay,  that  something-or-other  toasted  somewhere,  and  never 
forgotten?  Their  number  must  be  very  great,  and  it  is  by  this  regretful  and 
regretting  multitude  that  Hilda's  volume  will  be  most  warmly  welcomed. 
Here  they  will  find  how  to  prepare  those  acid-sweet  apricots  the  Persians  bring 
down  into  the  plains  of  India  for  sale,  the  '  sambal,'  or  green  chutney  which 
makes  the  dishes  of  the  Malays  so  appetising,  the  '  sasatees '  that,  steaming  on 
their  skewers,  rejoice  the  picknickers  at  the  Cape,  and  scores  of  other  dishes 
which  the  wanderer  on  the  face  of  the  earth  will  recognise  as  old  friends  with 
pleasure.  The  home-stayer,  too,  will  do  well  to  experiment  in  them,  in  spite 
of  their  fearsome  names  ;  but  these  same  names  are  most  quaintly  exorcised 
and  made  comfortable  and  homely  by  the  writer's  little  notes." 

The  Morning  Post  says: — "Hilda's  'Where  Is  It?'  of  Recipes  may 
be  recommended  as  containing  clear  directions  for  the  preparation  of  many 
delicacies  for  the  table.  The  recipes  include  Cape,  Indian,  and  Malay  dishes 
and  preserves,  some  of  which  are  as  good  as  they  are  rare.  Space  has  also 
been  found  for  other  matters  besides  eatables,  and  the  possessors  of  this  small 
volume  will  find  themselves  provided  with  directions  for  polishing  furniture, 
tleaning  materials,  and  administering  homely  remedies  to  the  sick." 

The  Cape  Argus  says  : — "  Admirable  book  .  .  .  compiled  by  somebody 
who  knows  all  about  it." 

The  Wynberg  (South  Africa)  Times  says:— "This  work  cannot 

fail  to  prove  eminently  useful  to  every  intelligent  housewife  who  is  fortunate 
enough  to  become  possessed  of  a  copy.  .  .  .  The  book  is  of  a  thoroughly 
practical  character,  and  written  in  an  easy,  pleasant  style." 

The  Saturday  Review  says  : — "  A  capital  book  ...  a  most  interest- 
ing collection  .  .  .  much  is  new,  and  what  is  not  is  often  newly  put." 

The  Princess  says  : — "A  book  of  novel  arrangement.  .  .  .  There  are 
instructions  in  this  book  that,  I  suppose,  it  would  be  a  thousand  chances  one 
would  ever  meet  elsewhere,  some  of  them  as  old  as  a  century,  and  it  should 
certainly  be  added  to  the  collections  of  every  housewife. " 

Vanity  Fair  says  : — "The  author  lives  at  the  Cape,  and  has  collected  from 
various  sources — the  majority  of  them  the  archives  of  her  own  family — valuable 
old  recipes,  owned  and  practiued  by  the  Malay,  Imlian,  and  French  cooks, 
whom  it  was  the  custom  of  Cape  families  of  Duich  descent  to  employ. 
Attached  to  the  book  is  a  pencil,  intended  to  do  duty  on  the  blank  pages  left 
for  the  purpose  of  memoranda  writing,  where  recipes  from  other  sources  may 
be  committed  to  paper." 


Cornell  University  Library 
TX  725.S6D825 


Hilda's  "where  is  it?"  of  recipes  :conta 


3  1924  001   699  267 


