'\ 


I^JQS^ 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924085804619 


,# 


t  I  ' 


"  Better  is  a  dinner  of  herbs  where 
love  is,  than  a  stalled  ox  and  hatred 
therewith." 


% 


yJ 


Twentieth  Century 
Cook  Book 

CONTAINING 

ALL   THE    LATEST   APPROVED   RECIPES    11^'  EVERY    DEPARTMENT 

OF  COOKING  ;   INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  SELECTING  MEATS 

AND  CARVING;  DESCRIPTIONS  OF  THE  BEST 

KITCHEN   UTENSILS,  ETC. 

TO  WHICH  IS  ADDED 

HYGIENIC  AND  SCIENTIFIC  COOKING 

RULES  FOR  DINNER  GIVING;    USE  OF  THE  CHAFING  DISH ;    MENU 

CARDS  FOR  ALL  SPECIAL  OCCASIOfSS;  COOKING  FOR 

INVALIDS;  VALUABLE  HINTS  FOF^  ECONOMICAL 

HOUSEKEEPING,  ETC. 

INCLUDING 

2100  FAMOUS  RECIPES  USED  BY  THE  LEADING  CHEFS  OF  THE 
BEST  HOTELS  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES 

THE  WHOLE  FORMING 

A  STANDARD  AUTHORITY  ON  THE 
CULINARY  ART 

COMPILED     BY 

MAUD  C.  COOKE 

Author  of  "Social  Etiquette,"  Etc.,  Etc. 


Superbly  Embellished  with  Engravings  in  Colors 
and  Phototype  Illustrations 


ENTERED   ACCORDING    TO   ACT   OF   CONQRE86,    IN    THE    YEAR   10OB,    B^ 

.  HORACE    C.    FRY 

tN    THE    OFFICE    OF    THE    LIBRARIAN    OF    CONGRESS,    AT    WASHINQTO'V  .    □.  C.    U.  «.  «. 


INTRODUCTION. 


/"\^  making  many  books  there  is  no  end."  This  we  are  told  by  the 
I  I  wisest  of  men,  and  the  phrase  might  well  be  quoted  with  reference 
Vy  to  cook  books.  Yet,  in  itself,  is  this  fact  a  token  that  there 
is  a  recognized  need  of,  and  a  reaching  out  for,  the  coming  cook  book ; 
the  Scientific  and  Hygienic  Treatise  on  Cookery  that  shall  be  an  aid 
to  health  and  happiness  in  each  household  where  its  influence  is  felt, 
and  thus  it  comes  to  pass  that  there  is  always  a  market  for  the  new  cook  book. 

In  pursuance  of  this  idea,  the  pages  of  this  book  have  catered  not  sim- 
ply to  the  wants  of  the  rich,  who  are  usually  provided  with  high-price  cAe/i 
to  plan  their  daily  menu,  but  have  sought  to  prove  a  trusty  guide,  also,  to 
that  great  body  of  people  who  must  clothe,  feed  and  house  their  families  oa 
a  very  moderate  stipend.  Assistance  and  advice  have  been  given  to  the 
housewife  whose  daily  allowance  is  less  than  one  dollar,  as  well  as  luxurious 
suggestions  and  elaborate  menus  for  the  wealthy. 

Especial  care  has  been  taken  ih  selecting  recipes  for  soups,  sauces,  and 
little  luxuries,  on  incomes  somewhat  less  than  a  millionaire's.  A  depart- 
ment has  been  given  to  the  uses  of  "  The  Chafing  Dish,"  that  useful  adjunct 
to  the  lunch  table,  the  small  evening  gathering,  or  the  light  housekeep^'ag, 
so  prevalent  in  city  apartments. 

"Invalid  Cookery,"  "  Market! -j,"  "  Carving,"  "Bills  of  Fare," 
"  Hygienic  Cookery,"  and  all  departments  of  household  economy,  have 
received  their  due  share  of  attention.  The  departments  on  "Salads," 
"'  Fruit  Salads,"  and  "Left-Overs  "  of  all  descriptions  are  especially  full.  • 

We  are  all  greatly  dependent  upon  the  state  of  our  digestion.  Napoleon 
could  not  rise  superior  to  an  illy-cooked  dinner.  Hence  his  Waterloo.  The 
History  of  the  French  Revolution  rose  and  fell  with  the  state  of  Carlyle's  dys- 
pepsia, and  many  a  tragic  episode  in  family  life  is  superinduced  by  the  baleful 
influence  of  a  tortured  stomach.  Mighty  is  the  hand  that  holds  the  ballot- 
box,  but  mightier  is  the  hand  that  wields  to  advantage  the  pepper-box,  the 
salt-spoon,  and  the  sugar-shaker.  Wise  is  the  brain  that  decides  upon  the 
fitness  or  the  unfitness  of  the  laws  that  govern  our  land,  but  mightier  is  tiie 

6 


6  INTRODUCTION. 

power  behind  Ihe  throne  j  the  brain  that  decides  upon  the  quantity  ana  the 
quality  of  the  food  that  goes  to  feed  the  strength  of  the  law-makers. 

To  these  housekeepers,  these  home-builders,  it  is  that  such  books  as 
this  are  dedicated,  and  among  these  it  is  that  they  find  their  welcome.  Not 
sought  in  the  honie  where  there  is  no  cook  book,  for  there  their  value  is  un- 
known; but  in  the  home  where  there  are  many  such  guides  it  is  that  each 
new  arrival  comes  as  a  herald  of  something  better  and  more  helpful  in  the 
'  realm  of  cookery.  And  meet  it  is  that  all  possible  help  be  given  to  those- 
■who  feed  our  bodies,  for  thereby  they  strengthen  and  uplift  our  souls  also. 

Says  Haryot  Holt  Cahoon  :  "Ask  a  woman  what  cooking  means.  It 
means  the  patience  of  Job,  and  the  persistence  of  the  Pilgrim  Fathers.  It 
means  the  endurance,  the  Iqng-suffering,  and  the  martyrdom  of  Joan  of  Arc. 
It  means  the  steaming,  and  the  stewing,  and  the  baking,  and  the  broiling, 
thrice  daily,  springs,  summers,  autumns,  and  winters,  year  after  year,  de- 
cade following  decade.  It  means  perspiration,  and  desperation,  and  resig- 
nation. It  means  a  crown  and  a  harp,  and  a  clear  title  to  an  estate  in  hea- 
ven. From  her  judgment  and  reason  the  cook  must  evolve  triumphs  that 
depend  upon  salt  and  pepper,  and  sugar  and  herbs.  She  must  know  how 
soon  and  how  long,  and  how  much  and  how  often.  She  must  know  quality 
and  quantity  and  cost.  She  must  serve  the  butcher,  and  the  baker,  and  the 
candlestick-maker.  Then  she  must  rise  above  it  all  and  be  a  lady — a  iloaf- 
giver."  '  '  '' 

Ruskin  says :  "  Cookery  means  the  knowledge  of  Medea,  and  of  Circe, 
and  of  Calypso,  and  of  Helen,  and  of  Rebekah,  and  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba. 
It  means  the  knowledge  of  all  herbs  and  fruits,  and  balms  and  spices,  and 
of  all  that  is  healing  and  sweet  in  fields  and  groves,  and  savory  in  meats. 
It  means  carefulness  and  inven^veness,  and  watchfulness  and  willingness, 
and  readiness  of  appliance.  It  means  the  economy  of  your  great-grand- 
mothers, and  the  science  of  modern  chemists;  it  means  much  tasting  and 
no  wasting ;  it  means  English  thoroughness,  and  French  art,  and  Arabian 
hospitality ;  and  it  means,  in  fine,  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and  always, 
'ladies,'  ' loaf-givers.* " 

To  be  able  to  cope  with  difSculties,  should  the  necessity  arise,  is  the 
duty  of  most  women.  Nothing  will  enable  them  to  do  so  more  certainly 
than  a  thorongK  knowledge  of  the  gentral  principles  and  methods,  and  the 
carrying  out  of  these  in  the  preparation  of  the  homeliest  meal. 


CONTENTS. 


Faqb 

BEEF 172 

BILLS  OF  FARE 583 

BISCUIT 304 

BLANC  MANGE 417 

BUNS    .  .  . 307 

BREAD 294 

CAKES  364 

CANDIES ■ 541 

CANNED  FRUITS 479 

CARVING  17 

CATSUP  AND  SPICED   FRUITS 322 

CHAFING   DISH  COOKERY 333 

CHEESE  DISHES 344 

CHICKEN 135 

CLAMS        ■....,.     92 

COOKIES       398 

X:OOKING  FOR  INVALIDS 554 

CORN  CAKES .312 

CRABS 97 

CRACKERS       318 

CREAMS  AND  CHARLOTTES 419 

CROQUETTES 261 

CRULLERS .' 395 

CUSTARDS 415 

DESSERTS 424 

DOUGHNUTS 395 

DUCKS 146 

DUMPLINGS    .  .   .  .  , , .338 

EGGS        .218 

ENTREES , 349 

FISH  ■ 103 

FRITTERS 268 

FROGS'  LEGS 155 

FRUIT  SALADS 440 

GAME  . 149 

GEESE 144 

GEMS 308 

GINGERBREADS ". 401 

GRIDDLE  CAKES    .  , 314 

T 


8  CONTENTS. 

\  PaOB 

HARE IM 

HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC .V 204 

ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM 507 

JELLIES 465 

KIDNEYS 184 

LOBSTERS  ^ .     86 

MEATS 161 

MUFFINS 309 

mutton; 190' 

OYSTERS 68 

PARTRIDGES. 165 

PICKLES -.   ...    492 

PIES  AND  PASTRY 353 

PIGEONS 156 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES 574 

PORK 195 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN 169 

PRESERVES  AND  JAMS 442 

PUDDINGS .   .  ; 405 

QUAIL .  ......    167 

RABBITS 152 

REMEDIAL  FOODS 582 

ROLLS 305 

RUSKS 307 

SALADS .^. 277 

SALLY  LUNN ^ 312 

SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES 319 

SCALLOPS ^ 100 

SCIENTIFIC  HYGIENIC  COOKERY 576 

SHORTCAKE - 341 

SOUPS,  HOW  PREPARED  .  , ,  .     81 

SQUIRRELS 154 

TABLE  DRINKS 524 

TERRAPIN .101 

TOASTS 830 

TRIPE 182 

TURKEY : 130 

TURTLE ;  .  . 102 

VEAL 184- 

VEGETABLES 231 

VENISON • 151 

WAFFLES SIO 

WOODCOCK V 158 


TOSRVE 


Carving  is  really  an  art,  and  should  be  cul- 
tivated as  one,  for  much  of  the  success  of  a 
good  dinner  depends  upon  it,  but  whether  the 
bad  carving  so  often  met  with  is  really  due,  as  is 
sometimes  said,  to  stupidity,  awkwardness,  ot 
laziness,  is  an  open  question.  Practice  has  much  to  do 
with  it,  and  a  good  knife  much  more.  The  carving- 
knife  should  be  very  sharp,  and  kept  for  this  use  alone. 
A  fine  steel  knife ,  should  never  come  in  contact  with 
intense  heat.  Table  carving-^knives  should  never  be  used  around  the 
kitchen  range,  or  for  cutting  bread,  meats,  or  vegetables.  The  diph 
upon  which  the  meat  or  fowl  is  served  should  be  of  sufficient  size  to 
allow  room  for  the  carved  slices  before  serving.  If  this  is  not  the 
case,  another  dish  should  be  provided  for  their  reception. 

When  carving,  a  chair  should  be  used  slightly  higher  than  the 
ordinary  dining-chair,  as  this  gives  a  better  purchase  for  ui^ing  th* 
carving-knife  and  fork,  and  is  more  graceful  thkn  standing,  which  is 
often  resorted  to.  Skill  is  the  chief  requisite  of  carving,  not  strength. 
The  platter  containing  the  meat  should  be  placed  opposite,  and 
sufficiently  near  the  carver  to  give  perfect  command  over  the  article 
to  be  carved.  Cut. the  meat  in  thin  slices,  laying  them  on  one  side  of 
the  platter,  then  afterward  place  the  desired  amount  on  each  guest's 
plate,  to  be  passed  in  turn  by  the  servant. 

Gravies  or  sauces  should  be  sent  to-the  table  very  hot.  Plates 
also  should  be  thorgughly  heated,  as  otherwise  the  eatables  will  soon 
get  cold  and  the  dinner  will  be  spoiled.  When  serving  gravies,  be 
careful  to  place  it  by  the  side  of '-and  not  over  the  meat.  Then  the 
guest  can  use  much,  or  little,  as  preferred.  It  is  not  possible  to  carve 
meat  in  anyway-ivithout  the  gravy  escaping,  but  avoid  hacking  and 
chopping,  which  results  in  a  dish  full  of  gravyj 

In  serving  any  fowl  or  meat  that  is  accompanied  by  stuffing  or 

dressing,  guests  should  be  asked  if  a  portion  is  desired,  as  there  are 

some  to  whom  the  flavor  is  disagreeable.     Do  not  heap  plates  too 

full,  and  keep  each  article  separate,  thus  insuring  a  good  appearance. 

a  17 


18 


HOW  TO  CARVE. 


Sirloin  of  Beef. — ^A  sirloin  should  be  cut  with  one  good,  firm 
stroke,  fron^  end  to  end  of  the  joint,  at  the  upper  portion,  niakitig  the 
cut  very  clean  and  even.  Then  disengage  it  from  the  bone  by  a 
horizontal  cut  exactly  to  the  bone,  using  the  tip  of  the  knife.  Every 
slice  should  be  clean  and  even,  and  the  sirloin  should  cut  fairly  to 
the  very  end.  Many  persons  cut  the  under  side  whilst  hot,  not  reck- 
ojjing  it  so  good  cold ;  but  this  is  a  matter  of  taste,  and  so  is  the 
mode  of  carving  it'  The  best  way  is  first  of  all  to  remove  the  fat  b, 
which  chops  up  well  to  make  puddings,  if  not  eaten  at  table.     Then 

the  under  part  can  be-  cut,  as  al- 
ready described,  from  end  to  end, 
or  downwards,  as  shown  by  the 
marks  at  c.  The  latter  is  the 
more  general  method,  and  the 
slices  should  be  rather  thick," 
those  from  the  top  should  be  thin, 
If  only  the  fillet  is  eaten  while  hot, 
c   Sirloin  of  Beef.  the  top   of   the  joint   should  be 

glazed,  and  the  dish  garnished  with  fresh,  parsley  and  scraped  horses 
radish;    it  will  then  furnish  a  most  appetizing  cold  dish. 

Bibs  of  Beef. — To  carve  ribs  of  beef,  a  sharp  knife  is  necessary, 

and  if  it  is  run  along  between 
the  meat  and  the  bones,  the 
carving  will  be  more  cleanly 
and  quickly  done.  The  slices 
should  be  thin,  and  cut  from 
A  to  B,  as  shown  in  the  illus- 
tration. Unless  this  is  well- 
carved,  it  is  a  wasteful  joint,, 
and  it  is  hiore  economical  to 
cut  the  end  off  to  a  greater 
extent  than  is  usually  done, 
or  it  becomes  dry  and  over- 
done by  the  time  the  thick 
part  is  cooked.  This  can  be  boiled  fresh,  or  may  be  salted  sepa- 
rately, or  with  another  lean  piece  of  meat,  and  if  the  two  are 
cooked  and  eaten  together  a  very  good  dish  for  breakfast  may  be 
had  at  little  cost  and  trouble.    If,  however,  the  butcher  is  requested, 


RibB  of  Beef. 


HOW  TO  CARVE. 


19 


Ox  Tougrue. 


he  will  cut  Iflie  rib  short  before  sending  it  home,  but  a  trifle  more 
per  pound  must  be  paid  for  it  if  tk?  thin  end  is  not  taken.  {See  dot- 
ted line  in  the  illustration.  It  indicates  the  portion  which  may 
advantageously  be  removed.) 

Ox  Tonirie.-7-The  illustration  shows  an  ox  tongue  as  generally 
served,  garnished  plainly  with  a  paper  frill,  some  parsley  or  water- 
cress, and  some  scraped  horse-radish,  but  the  latter  may  be  dispensed 
with.  Perhaps  the  most  common  way  of  carving  is  to  make  a  cut 
near  the  centre  of  the  tongue,  carrying  the  knife  only  about  three- 
fourths  down,  and  then  taking  slices 
from  both  sides  until  the  root  and  tip 
are  reached.  This  is  wasteful — the 
fat  left  on  the  dish  becomes  discol- 
ored by  the  time  the  tongue  is  con- 
sumed; and  a  more  economical  way 
is  to  cut  the  tongue  right  down 
through  the  middle,  then  take  slices 
thinly  from  both  sides.  As  has  been  already  said,  superfluous  fat 
should  be  cut  off  before  it  is  dished ;  then  the  probability  is  that  not 
more  than  will  be  eaten  is  left  on.  When  the  meal  is  over,  the  two 
parts  should  be  pushed  together,  to  prevent  dryness.  Any  fat  which 
may  be  left,  so  long  as  it  is  sweet,  will  come  in  useful  for  mixing 
with  lean  beef,  or  other  meat  for  potting.  -  ^ 

Breast  of  Veal. — ^This  rightly  consists  of  two  parts,  the  best  end, 
and  the  brisket  end;  it  may  be  bougjht  whole,  or  in  parts;  the  brisket 
end  being  a  little  cheaper.  In  carving*  it  much  depends  upon  the 
method  of  jointing  adopted  by  the  butcher.  If  the  ribs  have  been 
broken  across,  long  slices  may 
be  cut  as  shown  in  the  diagram 
from  A  to  B ;  or  the  rib  can  be 
cut  right  ^  through  from  c  to  d, 
then  divided  at  the  broken  bone 
A  B.  If  the  rib  bones  have  not 
been  broken,  the  ribs  have  to 
be  served  whole ;  the  pieces  are 
then  somewhat  awkward-looking 

on  the  plate.     The  gristly  portion  may  be  cut  as  shown 
and  in  a  well-cooked  breast  this  is  very  inviting  and  tender. 


Breast  of  Veal. 


.n  H  H, 


20 


HOW  TO  CARVE. 


Neck  of  Veal. — rThe  best  end  of  a  neck  of  veal  makes  a.  very  good 
roasting  piece ;  it,  however,  is  quite  difficult  to  carve,  unless  it  is 

done  properly.  To  attempt  to  carve 
each  chpp  and  serve  it,  would  cause 
you  to  place  too  large  a  piece  upon 
the  plate  of  a  person  you  intend  to 
serve.  The  correct  way,  therefore, 
to  carve  this  roast  is  to  cut  diagonally 
from  figure  1  to  2,  and  help  in  slices 
Neok  of  Veal.  of  moderate  thickness ;  then  it  may  be 

cut  from  3  to  4,  in  order  to  separate  the  small  bones. 

Fillet  of  Veal.— ^A  sharp  knife  is  required ;  it  should  be  thin,  and 
drawn  lightly  across  the  meat,  without  too  much  pressure.  It  should 
follow  the  line  A,  B,  c,  D,  and  when  once  the  meat  has  become  flat  at 

the  top,  it  can  be  kept  even  by  exercising 

a  little  care.   A  portion  of  stuffing  should 

be  given  with  each  help,  and  as  some 

usually  falls  into  the  dish  at  starting  this 

should  be  kept  in  reserve  for  the  time 

when  there  is  less ;    that  is,  when   the 

lower  part  of  the  joint  is  reached.    The 

ruiet  of  VeaL  outside  brown  slice  is  by  many  considered 

the  best,  and  the_  honored  guest,  should  be  asked  if  he  prefers  it. 

Fillet  of  veal  has  a  tendency  to  crumble,  therefore  an  ordinary  knife, 

especially  if  blunt,  will  not  answer  in  carving  it. 

Knuckle  of  Veal.* — ^This  is  often  boiled,  and  is  delicate,  though 
rather  insipid,  unless  flavor  is  imparted  by  the  addition  of  vegetables. 

The  usual  time  for  cooking  is  not  long 
enough  for  this,  owing  to  its  gelatinous 
nature.  When  boiled,  long,  slow  cooking, 
and  careful  skimmipg  are  important.  A 
stewed  knuckle  is  excellent.  A  roasted 
knuckle  is  not  to  be  recommended,  unless 
the  fleshy  portion  only  is  cooked,  the 
knuckle-bone*  being  used  for  stock,  for 
which  it;is  very  useful,  and  should  be  used 
while  quite  fresh.  The  illustration  shows 
the  method  of  carving,  which  is  very  simple, 


KnuoMe  of  Veal. 


HOW  TO  CARVE.  21 

slices  being  cut  from  a  to  b.  The  thick  part  is  the  best;  the  fat  is 
very  delicious;  but  by  some  the  tendons  about  the  knuckle  are 
preferred. 

Calf's  Head. — To  carve  the  head,  commence  with  long  slices, 
shown  by  the  dotted  lines  A  to  b.  With  each  of  these,  serve  a  cut  of 
what  is  called  the  throat  sweetbread ;  this  lies  at  the  fleshy  part  of 
the  neck  end.  Cut  also  some  slices  from  c  to  d  ;  they  are  very 
gelatinous  and  delicate ;  a  small  portion  should  be  served  to  fcach 
person.  The  tongue  and  brains  are,  as  a  "rule,  put  upon  a  separate 
dish  ;  thin  slices  of  the  tongue  should  be  given  to  each,  together 
with  a  spoonful  of  the  brains.  The  flesh  round  the  eye  is  considered 
the  tit-bit  by  some  people,  and  deep  in  the  sockets  are  other  choicff 
bits.  To  remove  these,  make  a 
circular  cut  in  the  part  marked  e. 
First  put  the  knife  in  slanting  at  f, 
inserting  the  point  at  the  dotted 
line,  and  driving  it  into  the  centre 
under  the  eye ;  then  turn  the  hand 
round,  keeping  the  circle  of  the 
dotted  line  with  the  blade  of  the 
knife,  the  point  still  in  the  centre. 
The  eye  will  come  out  entire,  cone- 
shaped  at  the  under  part,  when  the 
circle  is  completed  by  the  knife.  °^^'«  ^«^^- 

The  lower  jaw  must  next  be  removed,  beginning  at  g;  and  to  do  this 
properly  the  dish  must  be  turned.  The  palate  is  also  considered  a 
dainty,  and  a  little  of  it  should  always  be  offered  to  each  guest. 
Some  people  find  it  easier  to  carve  a  calf's  head  if  divided,  and 
each  half  laid  flat  on  a  dish. 

Haunch  of  Mutton.— Unless  this  joint  has  been  well  hung  it  will 
be  tough  and  insipid.  A  haunch  of  good  mutton,  in  fine,  clear,  frosty 
weather,  may  be  kept  a  month;  but  in  damp  weather  it  will  require 
much  attention  on  the  part  of  the  cook  to  keep  it  from  getting 
tainted  in  half  the  time.  The  great  point  is  to  keep  it  dry,  by  dusting 
it  first  with  flour,  which  should  be  rubbed  off  several  times  with  a  dry 
cloth,  and  again  renewed.  When  to  be  cooked,  skin  the  loin,  and 
wipe  diy ;  then  cover  with  white  paper,  or  make  a  common  paste  of 
flour-and-water  for  the  joint.    Put  it  on  the  spit,  or  hang  before  a 


22 


HOW   ro  CARVE. 


good,  even,  vigorous  fire  for  the  first  half  hour,  basting  it  constantly 
with  good  meat-dripping.  When  within  half  an  hour  of  being  done, 
take  off  the  paper,  and  brown  slightly.  Dredge  the  haunch  with 
flour,  and  baste  copiously  with  butter,  but  first  pour  the  dripping 
from  the  pan ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  and  send  it  to  table  finely 
frothed.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  with  what  has  dripped  from  the 
meat  and  a  little  boiling  broth  drawn  from  mutton  trimmings ;  salt 
and  pepper.  Time,  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  per  pound ;  well 
done,  eighteen  minutes.  To'  carve  this,  make  a  cut  from  a  to  B ;  then 
take  off  the  slices  as  shown  from  c  to  d.  A  frill  put  on  the  knuckle 
improves  the  appearance,  and,  if  liked,  the  meat  can  be  glazed. 

Another  way. — After  taking  off  the 
skin  and  as  much  fat  as  may  be  neces- 
sary, the  skin  may  be  put  back  until 
I  the  time  for  browning  and  frothing  the 
m'eat.  If  the  mutton  is  lean,  and  it  is 
not  thought  nepessary  to  take  off  any 
fat  from  the  top,  simply  baste  the 
meat,  and  cook  it  minus  paper  or  paste ; 
but  it  will  not  generally  be  near  so  full 
of  flavor.  If  this  method  is  followed,  the  basting  must  be  almost 
incessant.  _ 

Fore-quarter  of  Lamb. — To  carve,  separate  the  shoulder ;  see 

A  A  A  in  the  diagram.  This  is  then 
transferred  to  another  hot  dish,  some 
lemon  juice  being  squeezed  over  the 
breast,  the  lemon  first  dipped  in  the 
cayenne.  Theft  separate  the^  ribs 
and  brisket,  and  cut  the  ribs  through ; 
see  c  B.  The  guests  should  be  asked, 
if  they  prefer  ribs  or  brisket.  'The 
shoulder  may  not  be  required  at  all 
while  hot,  the  other  parts  being 
usually  first  chosen, 
of  bacon  over  the  thick  part  of  the 
lamb,  and  brush  the  thin  part  with  clarified  butter  before  roasting. 
Before  dishing,  take  the  bacon  off  and  dredge  with  crumbs;  let  them 
thrown  well,  then  serve. 


Haunch  of  Mutton. 


Fore-quarter  of  Lamb. 
Another  way.-^F\it  slices 


HOW  TO  CARVE. 


23 


Saddle  of  Mutton. 


Saddle  of  Mutton. — This  is  a  very  popular  roast.  A  saddle  of 
mutton,  if  hung  in  a  cool  airy  place,  will  improve  with  keeping  from 
one  to  three  weeks,  according  to  the  weather ;  but  as  this  part  of  the 
sheep  IS  the  most  tender  and  delicate,  it  may,  if  liked,  be  roasted  in 
from  four  to  five  days.  If  not  for  a  large  family,  get  the  joint  well 
trimmed ;  the  flaps,  tail  and  chump  end  may  be  cut  away,  which  will 
considerably  lessen  the  weight,  and  be 
found  more  advantageous  to  the  pur- 
chaser, even  at  a  higher  price  per  pound, 
or  the  flap  will  make  a  plain  stew.  In  its 
entire  state  it  is  considered  an  expensive 
joint,  consequently  people  of  moderate 
means  and  family,  unless  so  accommo- 
dated by  the  butcher,  can  seldom  order  it. 
All  superfluous  fat  must,  in  any  case,  be 
removed,  and  the  joint  covered  with  a 
greased  paper.  Roast  as  directed  for  a  loin  of  mutton.  It  should  be 
a  nice  brown  when  done,  but  not  too  dark.  About  twenty  minutes 
per  pound  will  be  required.  Laver  is  a  good  accompaniment  to  roast 
mutton.  Good  gravy  and. hot  jelly  must  not  be  ottiitted.  The  an- 
nexed diagram  shows  the  mode  of  carving,  which  is  quite  simple, 
straight  slices  being  cut  from  A  to  B.  Relays  of  hot  plates  and  gravy 
should  be  in  readiness,  and  very  little  gravy  should  be  put  upon  the 
dish.  A  hot-water  dish,  as  used  for  venison,  is  the  best  to  serve 
mutton  on. 

Shoulder,  Boned  and  Boiled. — In  the  diagram  is  shown  a 
shoulder  of  mutton  (lanib  or  veal)  as  it  will  appear  when  the  bones 
(knuckle  excepted)  are  removed.  It 
may  be  stuffed,  and  then  roasted,  or 
cooked  as  desired.  It  is  a  nice-look- 
ing dish,  and  easy  to  carve.  We  wish, 
too,  to  call  attention  to  the  method  of 
tying  it,  as  well  as  to  the  joint  itself, 
as  it  illustrates  clearly  the  way  of 
binding  anything  of  a  similar  kind, 
and  can  be  more  easily  followed  than 
any  written  description.  CalPs  head,  ox  check  and  galantines  of  all 
sorts  should  be  tied  thus  with  tape,  not  string. 


24  HOW  TO  Carve. 

As  to  the  boning,  we  can  only  repeat  our  advice  to  keep  the  knife 
close  to  the  bone,  and  avoid  piercing  the  outer  flesh.  The  accom- 
plished boner  may  like  to  bone  the  knuckle  also,  then  draw  the  meat 
inside,  and  so  give  the  joint  a  still  more  compact  appearance. 

Shoulder,  to  Carve. — Simple  as  is 
the  carving  of  this  to  the  experienced 
hand,  jt  is  a  joint  whjch  some  find  rather 
difficult  to  serve  evenly  and  fairly.  In 
the  illustration  cuts  are  made  as  shown 
frqm  A  to  b.  The  joint  will  then  open, 
and  leave  a  triangular  space ;  slices  must 
then  be  removed  from  A  to  b  and  c  to  B 

until  the  bone  is  reached :  then  slices 
Shoulder  Of  Mutton.         .^^^^  ^^  ^^^^^  ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^  ^^  ^^^ 

under-side,  by  turning  the  shoulder  over,  and  cutting  horizontally, 
like  a  round  of  beef 

lioiu  of  Mutton. — This  is  generally  served  in  chops,  though  riot 
always,  and  must  be  carefully  jointed,  or  the  carver  will  have.>to 
turn  the  knife  about  until  the  place  is  found  for  the  division  of  the 
bone's ;  this  produces  a  raggy  appearance. 

The  kidney  and  kidney-fat  are  great  delicacies,  and  a  portion 
should  be  put  upon  each  plate.  If  the  loin  is  large,  one  chop  may- 
make  two  small  helps,  by  putting  the  under-cut  with  the  end,  and 
serving  the  bone  and  upper  part  together.  The  most  economical 
way  of  serving  this  is  to  bone  it,  then  roll  and  carve  it  like  a  fillet, 
which  see.  A  saddle  of  mutton  or  double  loin  is  twcTloins  cut  o^ 
before  the  carcass  is  split  open  down  the  back.  French  chops  are  a 
small  rib  chop;  the  end  of  the  bone  trimmed  off  and  the  meat  and  fat 
cut  away  from  the  thin  end,  leaving  the  round  piece  of  meat  attached 
to  the  larger  end,  which  leaves  the  small  rib-bone  bare.  Very  tender 
and  sweet.  Mutton  is  prime  when  cut  from  a  carcass  which  has  been 
fed  out-of-doors,  and  allowed  to  run  upon  the  hillside ;  they  are  best 
when  about  three  years  old.  The  fe,t  will  then  be  abundant,  white 
and  hard,  the  flesh  juicy  and  firm,  and  of  a  clear  red  color. 

Leg  of  Mutton.— In  carving  a  leg,  turn  the  knuckle  to  the  left, 
plant  the  fork  firmly  on  the  side  of  the  joint,  and  begin  by  cutting 
across  near  the  middle  to  the  bone  in  the  direction  from  1  to  2, 
and  slices  may  be  taken  from  either  side. 


HOW  t6  carve.  25 

Some  very  good  cuts  are  taken  from  the  broad  end  from  5  to  6, 
and  the  fat  on  this  ridge  is  very  much  liked  by  many.  The  cramp- 
bone  is  a  delicacy,  and  is  obtained  by 
cutting  down  to  the  bone  at  4,  and 
running  the  knife  under  it  in^a  semi- 
circular direction  to  3.  The  nearer 
the  knuckle  the  drier  the  meat,  bui 
the  under-side  contains  the  most  finely 
grained  meat,  from  which  slices  may 
be  cut  lengthwise.  Lesr  o'  Mutton. 

Another  way. — ^A  leg  of  mutton  must  be  placed  with  the  knuckle 
toward  the  left  hand ;  you  then  cut  into  the  side  farthest  from  you 
toward  the  bone,  b  to  c,  helping  thin  slices  from  the  right  and  thick 
jdices  toward  the  knuckle.  The  little  tuft  of  fat  near  the  thick  end  is 
a  delicacy  and  must  be  divided  among  your  guests. 

The  ordinary  method  consists 
in  cutting  straight  across,  like  a 
leg  of  pork.  The  slice  containing 
the  kernel,  and  piece  of  fat  called  the 
Pope's  eye,  is  considered  the  best. 
To  carve  this  haunch-fashion  the 
slices  must  be  cut  parallel  with  the 
bone.  A  nice  leg  of  mutton,  hung 
as  long  as  consistent  with  weather,  ^®Sf  °^  Mutton, 

and  served  with  really  good  gravy,  currant  jelly,  well-cooked  vegetables 
and  hot  plates,  will,  if  carved  thus,  compare  very  favorably  with  the 
more  aristocratic  haunch.  More  than  one  writer  asserts  that  if  carved 
out  of  sight  of  the  guests,  not  more  than  one  in  twenty  would  know 
the  one  from  the  other.  Whether  this  be  true  or  not,  the  experiment 
is  certainly  worth  a  trial,  particularly  as  the  cost  is  not  increased. 

Sucking  Pigr.— A  sucking  pig  is  usually  sent  to  table  in  two 
halves,  back  to  back  on  the  dish ;  a  part  of  the  head,  and  one  ear, 
being  placed  at  each  end.  The  carver  separates  the  shoulder,  then 
the  leg,  from  each  half  These  joints  are  cut  in  the  ordinary  way, 
and  the  ribs  are  cut  straight  down.  As  in  carving  generally,  the 
various  tastes  of  those  present  should  be  ascertained ;  for  while  the 
pig  is  altogether  very  delicious,  most  people  have  a  decided  prefer-^, 
«nce  for  some  particular  part  of  it. 


26 


HOW  TO  CARVE. 


Ham. 


The  shoulders  are  often  left  untouched.  They  are  excellent  when 
re-heated  by  grilling  or  broiling.  They  may  be  whole  or  cut  up.  In 
either  case,  season  them,  dip  into  melted  butter,  then  into  fine 
crumbs.  If  whole,  see  that  it  is  heated  through  withqut  becoming 
too  brown ;  frequent  turning,  and  a  sprinkling  of  butter  now  and  then 
are  necessary.     Serve  any  sharp  sauce  with  this  dish. 

Ham. — This  is  carved  easily,  and 
requires  no  great  skill.  The  slices 
should  be  cut  thin,  from  1  to  2  and 
from  4  to  5,  as  shown  in  the  accom- 
panying diagram. 

Hauncb  of  Venison. — To  carve 
this  is  not  a  very  difficult  task.  In 
carving  a  haunch  of  venison,  first 
cut  it  across  down  to  the  bone  in 
the  line,  a  b  ;  then  turn  the  dish  with  the  knuckle  furthest  from  you, 
put  in  the  point  of  the  knife,  and  cut  down  as  deep  as  you  can  in  the 
direction  shown  by  the  dotted  lines,  A  to  c ;  you  may  take  out  as 
many  slices  as  you  please  on  the  right  and  left.  The  knife  should 
slope  in  making  the  first  cut,  and  then  the  whole  of  the  gravy  will  be 
received  in  the  well.  It  is  held  by  genuine  epicures  that  some  parts 
of  the  haunch  are  better  flavored  than  others,  but  it  is  doubtful 
whether  ordinary  palates  will  detect  any  difference.  Slices  of  veni- 
son should  not  be  cut  thick, 
and  plenty  of  gravy  should  be 
given  with  them.  The  fat  is 
very  apt  to  get  cool  soon,  and 
become  hard  and  disagreeable 
to  the  palate.  For  this  reason, 
very  quick  carving  is  absolutely 
necessary  for  this  joint.  The 
long  slices  contain  most  fat  at  the  loin  end.  The  outside  knots  of 
brown  fat  are  much  esteemed  by  most  people.  It  should  be  remem- 
bered in  carving,  that  to  please  one's  guests  in  the  matter  of  serving 
the  various  parts  of  a  joint,  is  as  much  the  duty  of  the  carver  as  it  is 
to  cut  the  meat  to  the  best  advantage ;  and  this  may  be  done  without 
disfiguring  the  joint,  by  the  exercise  of  forethought  in  requesting 
those  present  to  express  their  preference. 


Haunch  of  Venison. 


HOW  TO  CARVE. 


2n 


Boast  Hare. 


Hare,  Boasted. — Insert  the  point  of  the  knife  under  the  -shoul- 
der, and  cut  from  that  down  to  the  rump,  along  the  sides  of  the  back- 
bone. The  slices  should  be  moderately  thick.  Another  way  of 
carving  hare  is  to  remove  the  shoulders  and  legs,  and  cut  the  back 
crosswise  into  four  or  five  pieces.  This,  however,  can  only  be  done 
when  the  hare  is  very  young,  or  when  it  has  been  boned.  To  sepa- 
rate the  leg,  put  the  knife  between  the  leg  and  the  back^  and  give  it  a 
little  turn  inwards  at  the  joint, 
which  you  must  try  to  hit  and 
not  to  break  by  force.  The 
shoulders  must  be  taken  off  by 
cutting  in  ^  circular  line  round 
them.  These  last  are  known  as 
the  sportsman's  pieces;  some 
prefer  them,  but  sometimes  they 
are  thought  little  of,  and  are 
served  only  when  the  other  por- 
tions of  the  hare  are  exhausted.  The  most  delicate  part  is  the  back ; 
after  that  come  the  thighs.  When  every  one  is  helped,  take  off  the 
head.  The  upper  and  lower  jaw  should  be  divided  by  inserting  the 
knife  between  them ;  this  will  enable  you  to  lay  the  upper  part  of  the 
head  conveniently  on  the  dish.  .  That  being  done,  cut  it  in  two. 
The  ears  and  brains  are  highly  prized  by  connoisseurs.  With  each 
slice  of  hare  some  of  the  stuffing  should  be  served,  and  some  of  the 
gravy  should  accompany  it.  A  bit  of  bacon  must  be  put  on  each 
plate,  and  a  forcemeat  ball  sent  to  table  with  it. 

Fowl,  Boasted. — Insert  the  knife  between  the  leg  and  the  body, 
and  cut  to  the  bone ;  then  turn  the  leg  back  with  the  fork,  and,  if 
the  bird  is  not  old,  the  joint  will  give 
way.  The  wing  is  next  to  be  broken 
off,  and  this  is  done  in  the  direction 
of  A  to  B,  only  dividing  the  joint,  with  , 
the  knife.  The  forequarters  having 
been  removed  in  this  way,  take  off 
the  merry-thought  at  d,  and  the  neck-  -Roaat  FowJ. 

bones ;  these  last  are  to  be  removed  by  putting  the  knife  in  at  c,  and 
pressing  it,  when  they  will  break  off  from  the  part  that  sticks  to  the 
breast.    Next  separate  the  breast  from  the  body  of  the  fowl,  by  cutting 


28  HOW  TO  CARVE. 

through  the  tender  ribs  close  to  the  breast,  quite  down  to  the  tail. 
Turn  the  fowl  now  back  upwards;  put  the  knife  into  the  bone  mid- 
way between  the  neck  and  the  rump,  and  on  raising  the  lower  end  it 
will  separate  readily.  Turn  the  rump  from  you,  and  take  off  very 
neatly  the  two  side  bones,  which  completes  the  operation.  The  breast 
and  wings  are  considered  the  best  parts  of  a  roast  fowl,  being  very 
tender,  but  in  young  birds  the  legs  are  the  most  juicy.  In  the  case 
of  a  capon  or  large  fowl,  slices  may  be  cut  off  the  breast,  just  as  is 
done  when  carving  a  turkey.  Give  part  of  the  liver  with  each  wing, 
and  some  stuffing  to  all,  unless  objected  to. 

FoTTl,  Boiled. — ^This  is  cut  up  in  a  similar  manner  to  roast  fowl. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  cut  plenty  of  the  breast  meat  off  with  the 
wings;  the  knife  should  be  drawn,  and  much  downward  pressure 
avoided;  as  the  flesh  is  apt  to  crumble.  Sometimes  the  legs  are 
taken  off  before  the  wings.  A  very  large,  fowl  should  be  served  like 
a  turkey,  which  see.  If  little  sausages  be  put  about  the  dish,  serve 
one  with  each  portion  of  fowl.         >^ 

■Partridges. — The  method  depends  upon  the  quantity  of  birds  at 
the  disposal  of  the  carver,  and  the  nature  of  the  meah  If  there  is 
enough,  and  the  birds  are  small,  they  should  be  cut  right  through,  and 
half  a  bird  given  to  each,  supposing  the  Occasion  to  be  a  bachelors' 
supper  or  a  game  dinner.  When  the  party  is  a  large  one,  and  small 
helpings  only  are  possible,  carve  like  a  fowl,  but  give  some  breast 
meat  with  each  portion,  the  breast  being  so  highly  and  deservedly 
esteemed. 

Grouse. — If  there  be  ample  for  all,  a  grouse  may  be  cut  in  halves 
by  putting  the  point  of  the  knife  downwards,  near  the  leg  end  of  the 
breast,  and  splitting  the  breastbone  in  two  along  the  keel,  and  cutting 
through  the  back.  If  small  portions  only  are  to  be  served,  carve 
like  a  fowl,  or  take  some  slices  from  the  breast,  cutting  well  up  to 
the  wing,  then  take  off  the  leg  and  wing.  Try  to  serve  a  portion  of 
the  back  with  each  piece,  the  back  pairt  being  so  much  esteemed  by 
all  lovers  of  game. 

Turkey. — ^A  turkey  having  been  relieved  from  strings  and  skewers 
used  in  trussing,  should  be  placed  on  the  table  with  the  neck  at  the 
carver's  right  hand.  An  expert  carver  places  the  fork  in  the  turkey, 
and  does  not  remove  it  until  the  whole  is  divided.  First  insert  the 
fork  firmly  in  the  lower  part  of  the  breast  just  forward  of  fig.  2,  then 


HOW  TO  CARVE.  :s9 

sewer  the  legs  and  wings  on  both  sides,  cutting  through  the  joint 
next  to  the  body,  letting  these  ^arts  lie  on  the  platter.     Next,  cut 

downward  from  the  breast,  from  2    '  -      

to  3,  as  many  even  slices  of  the  _fc_«.*3^''^r^:::^v^^^ 
white  meat  as  may  be  desired,  plac-  ^^>j^yi?^q^itcg^- - — -27 Jgfc^ 
ing  the  pieces  neatly  on  one  side  of        (MfljC  ^'^g''y«gKi 

the  platter.  Now  unjoint  the  legs  (""^^LJSbii^  ^•■"  iCifii^BP^ 
and  wings  at  the  middle  joint.  \,^^^^^mSaBBrifWW^^^^ 
Make  an  opening  into  the  cavity  of  """"TTW*^ 

the  turkey  for  dipping  out  the  inside  Turkey, 

dressing,  by  cutting  a  piece  from  the  rear  part  1,  1,  called  the  apron. 
Consult  the  tastes  of  the  guests  as  to  which  part  is  preferred;  if  n6. 
choice  is  expressed,  serve  a  portion  o/  both  light  and  dark  mfeat. 
One  of  the  most  delicate  parts  of  the  turkey  are  two  little  muscles 
lying-^in  dish-like  cavities  on  each  side  of  the  back,  a  little  behind  the 
leg  attachments;  the  next  most  delicate  meat  fills  the  cavities  in  the 
neck-bone,  and,  next  to  this,  that  on  the  second  joints.  The  lower 
part  of  the  leg  (or  drumstick,  as  it  is, called)  is  rarely  ever  help^  to 
any  one,  being  hard  and  tough. 

Duck. — In  carving  a  duck,  due  regard  must  be  had  to  its  size 
and  condition;  a  large,  fat  duck  may  be  cut  up  like  a  goose,  viz.,  in 
thin  slices  from  the  breast,  then  the  wings  are  removed;  the  carver 
should,  however,  leave  part  of  the  si^  of  the  breast  attached  to  each 
wing.  Next  the  legs  are  cut  off,  then  the  neck-bone.  The  breast- 
bone is  separated  by  cutting  through  the  sides,  and  the  back-bone,  is 
divided  in  two  by  cutting  downwards.  But  in  the  case  of  a  poor, 
skinny  duck,  to  attempt  to  cut  slices  from  the  breast  is  to  betray  its 
condition;  then  the  wings  should  come  off  at  starting.  With  each 
helping  some  stuffing  should  be  served,  the  skin  being  first  cut  across 
between  the  legs,  that  it  may  be  taken  out  with  a  spoon. 

Goose,  Boaated. — Begin  by  turning  the  neck  end  of  the  goose 
towards  you,  a^d  cutting  the  whole  breast  in  long  slices  from  one 
wing  to  another.  {See  the  lines  A,  b.)  To  take  off  the  leg,  insert 
the  fork  in  the  small  end  of  the  bone,  pressing  it  to  the  body.  Put 
the  knife  in  at  A,  turn  the  leg  back,  and  if  the  bird  be  young,  it  will 
easily  come  away;  if  old,  we  will  not  answer  for  it.  To  take  off  the 
wing,  insert  the  fork  in  the  small  end  of  the  pinion,  and  press  it  close 
to  the  body;  put  the  knife  in  at  B,  and  divide  the  joint.    When  the 


30 


HOW  TO  CARVE. 


leg  and  wing  are  off  one  side,  attack  those  on  the  other ;  but,  except 
when  the  company  is  vety  large,  it  is  seldom  necessary  to  cut  up  the 
whole  goose.  The  back  and  lower  side  bones,  as  well  as  the  two 
side  bones  by  the  wing,  may  be  cut  off;  but  the  best  pieces  of  a 

goose  are  the  breast,  and  the 
thighs  after  being  separated 
froni  the  drumstick.  Serve  a 
little  of  the  seasoning  from  the 
inside,  by  making  a  circular  slice 
in  the  apron  at  c.  Should  there 
be  no  stuffing,  a  glass  of  port  or 
Roast  Goose.  claret  may  be  poured  into  the 

body  of  the  goose,  at  the  opening  made  in  the  apron  by  the  carver. 

The  unpleasantness  arising  from  eating  sage  and  onion  stuffing 
used  for  roast  goose  may  be  in  a  great  measure  prevented  by  putting 
in  the  centre  of  the  stuffing,  before  the  bird  is  coojced,  a  lemon  with 
the  yellow  rind  taken  off,  and  as  much  of  the  thick  white  skin  left  on 
as  possible.  Before  the  goose  is  sent  to  the  table,  the  flap  should  be 
opened  and  the  Iqmon  taken  out  and  at  once  thrown  away.  The 
lemon  will  have  absorbed  a  great  part  of  the  impurities,  which  other- 
wise would  have  remained  in  the  stuffing.  Care  should  be  taken  not 
to  cut  the  lemon  so  that  the  juice  could  escape. 

Pigeons,  Trussed. — Pigeons  need  to  be  very  carefully  plucked 

and  cleaned,  and  they  should,  if 
possible,  be  drawn  as  soon  as  they 
are  killed.  To  truss  for  roasting  :^- 
Cut  off  the  head  and  neck,  cut 
l|P^J^I  off  the  toes  at  the  first  joint,  and 
■  ^  f  wash  the  birds  well.  Dry  them 
*  ^  carefully,  truss  the  wings  over  the 
back,  and  pass  a  skewer  through 
the  wings  and  body.  The  gizzard 
may  be  cleaned,  and,  put  under  one  - 
of  the  wings.  To  truss  for  boiling :— Cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first 
joint,  put  the  legs  into  the  body,  and  skewer  the  pinions  back. 

To  carve  a  pigeon,  c^t  through  the  breast  and  back-bone;  or 
make  three  portions  of  one  bird,  by  taking  the  leg  and  wing  from  each 
side,  the  breast  making  a  third  serving,  not  to  be  despised  if  plump. 


Fieeons,  Trussed. 


V    -^ 


iR 


UllXIIUIIIh 


Soup-Stock. — Soup-stock  in  reality 
forms  the  basis  of  all  soups  and  of  the 
principal  meat  sauces  and  gravies.     This 


k  iiiiiiiii*^ 


consomme  (clear  soup)  is  made  of  the  cheaper  portions 
of  fresh  meat,  together  with  the  bones  and  trim- 
mings of  roasts,  which  should  always  be  sent  home 
from  the  meat  markets  The  bones  should  be  cracked  and 
are  a  great  addition  to  the  strength  and  thickness  of  the  soup. 
Where  they  are  used  in  abundance  the  stock  will  become  a  jelly 
when  cold.  The  flesh  of  an  old  animal  has  more  flavor  than  that  ol 
a  young  one ;  and  brown  meats  contain  more  than  white. 

Mutton  is  almost  too  strong,  in  flavor  to  be  used  alone  for  stock, 
and  veal,  while  having  much  of  the  glutinous  quality,  furnishes  little 
nutriment.  Veal  alone  is  useful  in  making  the  colorless  stock  needed 
as  a  foundation  for  the  more  elaborate  soups.  Calves'  feet  added  to  it 
will  give  an  added  consistency,  without  heightening  the  color.  Where 
color  is  not  an  objection,  the  addition  of  remnants  of  roast  meats  to 
the  stock-pot  gives  richness  to  the  flavor. 

How  Prepared. 

Stock  is  prepared  by  extracting  the  juices  from  meat  by  slow 
boiling.  It  is  kept  on  hand,  and  by  adding  varied  ingredients  almost 
any  variety ,of  soup  can  be  made.  The  cheaper  portions  of  meat  are 
used.  The  shin  bone  is  generally  chosen,  but  the  neck  contains  more 
substance,  and  makes  a  stronger,  more  nutritious  soup,  than  any 
other  portion  of  the  animal. 

Allow  one  quart  of  cold  water  to  one  pound  of  meat  and  bone, 
Put  the  meat  over  the  fire  in  a  covered  kettle,  and  allow  it  to  simmer 
slowly  for  four  or  five  hours,  in  order  that  the  essence  of  the  meat 
may  be  drawn  out  thoroughly.  Skim  carefully  from  time  to  time, 
and  never  let  it  boil  rapidly.  If  more  water  is  needed,  supply  it  with 
boiling  water  from  the  tea-kettle.  If  the  meat  'is  cut  in  pieces  and 
the  bones  cracked,  the  juice?  will  be  more  thoroughly  extracted, 
Never  salt  it  until  the  meat  is  tender,  as  that  hardens  and  toughens  it, 
especially  if  the  meat  is  to  be  eaten.  „ ^ 


32 


SOUPS. 


Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  strain  througli  a  sieve  or  napkin 
into  a  stone  jar.  The  fat  will  rise  in  a  cake  to  the  top,  when  it  can 
be  removed.  One  nice  way  is  to  pour  the  stock  into  several  small 
bowls.  Then  leave  the  cake  of  fat  over  the  top  of  each  One  until 
needed  for  use.  In  this  way  the  stock  is  kept  fresher.  Never  use 
tin  or  iron  vessels  to  put  away  soup  stock,  and  a  porcelain-lined  kettle 
with  a  closely-fitting  lid  is  preferable  for  all  soups.  More  than  one 
variety  of  meat  adds  to  the  flavor  of  the  stock  broth  and  should  be 
used  whenever  practicable. 

Fats  removed  from  the  stock  can  be  clarified  for  use  by  melting 
over  the  fire  until  all  the  water  is  extracted,  when  it  may  be  poured 
into  a  jar  for  use.  Stock  like  this  can  be  kept  many  days  in  cold 
weather.  To  make  soup  of  it,  take  out  a  portion  of  the  clear  jelly  in 
4he  stock  jar,  add  water,  and  whatever  additional  ingredients  may  be 
desired,  such  as  barley,  rice,  macaroni  or  vegetables,  as  may  be  desired. 
Cook  and  thicken  as  desired;  It  is  best  to  partly  cook  vegetables 
before  adding  the  stock,  as  much  boiling  injures  the  flavor.  Season 
to  taste,  boil  a  few  moments  and  serve  hot. 

Soup  Stock. — II.  Five  pounds  of  beef,  skin,  or  neck,  or  other 
cheap  piece,  or  the  same  amount  of  knuckle  of  veal,  or  half  beef 
and  half  veal.    Add  to  this  any  bones,  trimmings  of  poultry,  or 

fresh  meats,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean 
ham,  2  onions  (stick  several  cloves  in 
the  onions),  1  turnip,  3  carrots,  1  head  of 
celery,  2  tablespoons  full  of  salt,  1  bunch  of 
savory  herbs  (except  sage),  and  6  quarts  of 
cold  water.  Simmer  it  gently  for  five  or 
six  hours.  Skim  carefully.  Strain  into  a 
jar.  When  cold,  remove  the  fat.  This 
stock  will  keep  for  many  days  in  cold 
weather.  Salt  and  pepper  it  slightly.  This 
cannot  be  made  in  a  hurry. 

This  stock  is  the  basis  for  soups,  and 
makes  an  excellent  gravy  for  hash  and 
meats.  Add  to  this  stock,  vegetables,  etc.,  as  in  the  first  recipe  for 
soup  stock.  Always  guard  against  having  too  much  fat  in  the  soup. 
Assuming  care  in  the  first  stage,  the  ultimate  success  of  a  soup  is 
certain  if  the  seasonings  are  judiciously  added. 


Soup  Tureen. 


■>v^ 


be  Utitcben 


"  We  can  live  without  books,  we  can 

Live  witliout  wining, 
But  where  is  the  man  who  can 

Live  without  dining?" 


•1 


FIVK     O'CLOCK     TEA 


PREPARING  FOR  THE   DINNER   PARTY 


> 

H 
Pi 
< 

I 

< 
H 

< 
O 

o 
tn 


l-I 
<J 

H 
Pi 

w 
z 

z 


P5 


A   POTPOURRI 


« 

H 

O 
< 

o 

w 
a 

H 


"CHIRK  TABLE-TALK   BENKATH   THE   SHADOWING  TREES." 

JEAN  INGELOW 


ORDERING   LUNCH   FROM   THE   MENIT   CARD 


SOTJPS.  33 

Economical  Soup  Stock. 

The  economical  housekeeper  will  learn  to  utilize  whatever  trim- 
mings are  left  in  the  refrigerator.  Cooked  or  uncooked  meat,  leftr 
over  portions  and  bones  of  roasted  fowlsj  bits  of  vegetables,  portions 
of  grains,  such  as  barley,  wheat,  oatnaeal,  left  from  ^the  breakfast,  out- 
side stalks  of  celery,  etc.,  etc.  The  tough  ends  of  porter-house 
steaks,  cooked  or  uncooked,  and  all  the  bones  and  ends  of  roasts 
and  chops. 

Put  these  in  the  stock  kettle,  cover  with  watei"  in  the  proportion 
of  1  pint  to  1  pound  of  meat,  this  being  the  proportion  for  cooked 
meat.  Let  simmer  four  or  five  hours.  Then  the  liquor  should  b^ 
,  strained  off,  the  meat  seasoned  with  salt  and  then  allowed  to  stand 
and  harden  so  that  the  grease  may  come  to  the  surface.  A  quart  of 
soup  will  serve  a  family  of  six.  If  a  plain  macaroni  soup  is  to  be 
made,  a  quart  of  stock  will  be  required,  but  for  tomato  soup  only 
half  that  quantity  is  necessary.  Vegetables  should  be  added  to  stock 
only  to  give  it  flavor,  and  in  summer  the  stock  will  keep  longer  if 
they  are  omitted. 

WMte  Stock  must  be  made  of  veal,  calves'  feet,  and  chicken. 
Veal  alone  will  answer.     Proceed  as  in  the  first-given  stock  recipe. 

If  soup  is  to  be  used  the  second  day,  do  not  leave  it  in  the  kettle 
to  cool,  but  turn  it  into  stone  jar  or  china  bowl.  Do  not  cover  it,,  as 
that  causes  it  to  sour,  and  before  re-heating,  remove  the  cake  of  fat 
that  will  rise  to  the  top.     This,  if  heated  in,  would  injure, the  flavor. 

Soup  Hints. — Thickened  soups  require  more  salt  than  a  clear 
consomme. 

When  soup  is  made  of  fresh  meat,  the  meat  may  be  served  cold 
in  the  form  of  pressed  beef  (see  recipes),  force  meat  balls,  hash,  etc. 

If  soup  is  over-salted,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar 'and  an  equal 
amount  of  sugar  will  help  to  counteract  the  taste. 

When  soup  stock  is  at  a  discount  because  of  the  large  amount  of 
meat  used,  put  up  a  supply  for  warm  weather  emergency  dinners  by 
sealing  in  air-tight  glass  fruit  jars  when  it  is  boiling  hot. 

Soup  TMckening-.-rA  thickened  soup  should  be  about  the  con- 
sistency of  cream,  and  a  clear  soup  should  be  perfectly  transpare.nt. 
Flour,  corn-starch,  ground  rice  maybe  used  for  soup  thickening. 
These  maybe  rubbed  smooth,  to  about  the  consistency  of  cream,  with 
3 


34  SOUPS. 

cold  milk,  cream  or  water.  Again,  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  up  with 
water  and  milk  may  be  used,  instead. 

1.  The  thickening  never  should  be  added  to  the  soup  until  it  is 
just  about  to  be  served.  2.  The  thickening  material  should  be  mixed 
in.  a  bowl,  and  there  should  be  added  to  it  very  slowly  about  a  cupful 
of  hot  soup,  stirring  all  the  time.  Some  cooks  pour  this  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  cook  for  about  three  minutes  on  the  side  of  the  range,  stir- 
ring continually,  and  then  add  to  the  soup.  The  soup  must  never 
be  allowed  to  boil  after  the  thickening  has  been  added,  and  should 
not  stand  more  than  a  very  few  minutes  before  serving.  Scarcely 
anything  is  more  unpalatable  than  lukewarm  soup. 

Puree  Soups. — The  term  puree  is  applied  to  all  vegetables  cooked 
soft  and  ■  pressed  through  a  sieve.  Sometimes  these  are  served 
simply  as  vegetables,  sometimes  as  sauces  to  meats,  but  most 
often  they  are  diluted  with  broth,  milk  or  water,  and  made  into  soups. 
The  puree  soup  is  one  of  the  principal  nourishing  soups.  It  may  be 
made  also  of  fish,  cooking  the  fish  a  long  time  and  then  straining  it 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  vegetables.  The  general  plan  of  preparing 
these  soups  is  the  same. 

Goloring  for  Soup  and  Gravies. 

Caramel. — Put  into  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  sugar  aiid  a  quarter  of  a 
cup  of  water.  Let  them  boil  until  the  syrup  begnis  to  change  color; 
watch  carefully.  Tilt  the  saucepan  on  all  sides  that  it  may  brown 
equally.  When  it  is  all  nearly  black,  before  it  chars  in  the  least,  add 
a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  until  all  is  dissolved  and  like  very 
dark  syrup.  .Bottle  for  use.  A  teaspoonful  or  less  of  this  gives  a 
fine  color  to  soup  or  gravy.  It  will  also  color  icing  for  cake,  and  is 
.always  useful.    This  makes  a  brown  soup. 

Spinach  leaves,  pounded  in  a  mortar  and  the  juice  expressed  and 
added  to  soups,  will  give  a  green  color. 

Red  is  obtained  by  using  red-skinned  tomatoes,  from  which  the 
skin  and  seed  have  been  strained  out. 

A  fine  amber  color  is  obtained  by  adding  finely-grated  carrot  to 
the  clear  stock  when  it  is  quite  free  from  scum. 

Black  beans  make  an  excellent  brown  soup ;  the  same  color  can 
be  gotten  by  adding  burnt  sugar  or  browned  flour  to  clear  stock- 
Only  white  vegetables  should  be  used  in  white  soups,  Hke  chicken. 


SOUPS.      -  35 

To  make  a  cream  soup  yellow  and  rich  the  yolks  of  eggs  are 
used.  .The  eggs  are  first  beaten  thoroughly,  and  after  the  cream  or 
milk  has  been  added  to  the  soup,  they  are  stirred  in  just  before  it  is 
taken  from  the  fire. 

Clarifying  Soup. — Soup  may  be  still  farther  clarified  by  beating 
up  the  white  of  1  egg  with  a  little  water  for  each  quart  of  soup. 
Boil  slowly  together.  The  egg  and  the  sediment  will  rise,  £^nd  may 
be  skimmed  from  the  top,  leaving  the  soup  perfectly  clear. 

Flavorings  for  Soup. 

Celery  Vinegar. — Soak  1  ounce  of  celery  seed  in  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar, bottle  and  put  aside  for  flavoring  soups  and  gravies. 

Bouquet  of  Herbs. — A  spray  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  1  of 
savory,  a  sage  leaf  and  a  bay  leaf  tied  together  make  what  is  known 
as  a  herb  "  bouquet."  It  will  flavor  a  gallon  of  soup  if  cooked  in  it 
for  an  hour.  When  less  stuff  is  to  be  flavored,  less  cooking  of  the 
bouquet  is  required.     The  sage  can  be  omitted  whenever  desired. 

Herb  Spirit. — Equal  parts  of  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  summer 
savory,  parsley  and  celery  seed,  gathered  in  their  prime.  Fill  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle  loosely  with  the  fresh  leaves,  fill  with  good  vinegsif, 
and  cork  closely.  After  a  few  days  pour  off  the  vinegar  into  another 
bottle  and  cork.  This  will  be  found  very  convenient  for  flavoring- 
soups. 

Dried  Soup  Herbs. — The  coarse  stalks  of  celery,  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley and  other  soup  herbs  may  be  put  to  a  good  use  by  washing, 
drying  and  powdering  fine  and  bottling,  to  be  used  later  for  season- 
ing purposes.  A  small  bunch  of  fresh  parsley,  or  2  tablepooiifuls  of 
the  dried,  is  sufficient  for  1  gallon  of  soup. 

To  have  fresh  parsley  all  winter,  put  a  box  in  the  kitchen  window 
and  plant  the  seed.  It  can  be  grown  all  winter,  and  is  not  only  nicj 
seasoning  few  soups,  but  is  a  pretty  garnish  for  meat  and  fish. 

Boiled  Oatmeal  is  a  very  nice  addition  to  soups,  taking  the  place 
of  rice  or  pearl  barley. 

Catsups  of  various  kinds  are  a  nice  addition  to  the  flavoring  of 
soups,  t)ut  they  are  to  be  added  at  the  table  to  suit  the  tastes  of  each. 

Curry  Powder. — 1  ounce  each  of  ginger,  mustard  and  pepper ; 
3  ounces  each  of  coriander  seed  and  turmeric;  \  ounce  each  of  cin- 
namon, cardamom  and  cummin  seed ;  \  ounce  cayenne  pepper.  Have 


36       /  SOUPS. 

all  well  powdered,  mix,  and  keep  in  a  tightly-corked  bottle.    A  little 
of  this  will  greatly  improve  some  stews,  soups  and  gravies.     — ^ 

Curry  Balls.-^These  are  for  mock  turtle  soup,  veal  or  poultry 
fricassee,  or  any  made  dishes  that  require  garnishing.  Mash  the 
yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  and  mix  to  a  pulp  with  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  good  butter ;  season  with  curry  powder  and  a  little  salt, 
and  add  as  much  bread  crumbs  as  may  be  required  to  make„it  of  the 
proper  consistency ;  wet  your  hands  with  cold  water  and  make  little 
balls  out  of  the  mass,  making  them  any  size  your  fancy  dictates ; 
/drop  them  in  the  soup  or  sauce,  as  the  case  may  "be,  and  cover  the 
saucepan  while  it  boils.  When  the  balls  rise  in  the  pot  they  are  ready 
to  serve,  and  vnll  be  found  as  light  as  a  feather. 

Egg  B&lls  (or.  Quenelles). — Boil  4  eggs  until  hard.  Drop  them 
in  cold  water,  and  when  cool  remove  the  yolks  and  mash  them  to  a 
paste.  Season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  the  paste  with  > 
the  white  of  1  raw  egg.  Form  the  paste  into  balls  the  size  of  a 
'  hazel  nut,  roll  them  in  flour  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  hot  butter 
and  drop  into  the 'soup  just  before  taking  up.' 

Egg  Balls. — II.  Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  tablespoonful  of  hot 
mashed  potatoes,  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste,  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg. 
Rub  all  together.  Flour  the  hands.  Put  in  the  soup  before  taking 
from  the  fire. 

Croutons  (or  Fried  Crusts). — Cut  bread  in  slices  J  inch  thick, 
remoye  the  crust,  butter  the  bread  and  cut  in  cubes  f  inch  square, 
brown  in  oven,  or  fry  in  a  little  butter.  Put  them  in  the  soup  tureen 
and  pour  the  soup  over,  or  serve  in  a  separate  dish.  ' 

Force-meat  Balls. — Season  1  cup  of  any  finely-chopped  cooked 
meat  with  salt,  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  and  2  or  3  drops  of  onion  juice.  Moisten  the 
meat  with  the  yOlk  of  an  egg,  roll  in  small  balls,  flour  and  fry  in 
butter,  or  poach  in  salted  boiling  water.  Put  in  soup  just  before 
serving,  or  use  to  garnish  meats  or  fish.  When  fried  they  make  a 
nice  side  dish. 

Force-meat  Balls. — II.  Chop  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  add  a  little 
butter,  half  as  much  fine  bread  crumbs,  1  raw  egg,  a  pinch  of  summer 
savory  or  parsley.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  mix,  form  into  balls, 
fry  brown  in  hot  fat.  Put  in  the  soup  before  serving,  or  use  as  above. 
One  of  the  balls  is  better  tested  before  all  are  made  up. 


SOUPS.  37 

Egg  Dumplings. — One  cup  of  flour,  1  egg,  4  tablespbonfuls  of 
water.  Mix  the  egg  and  water,  add  a  pfnch  of  salt  and  stir  in  the 
salt,  making  a  stiff  dough  Roll  thin,  cut  with  a  cake  cutter,  drop 
into  either  gravy  or  soup.  Keep  the  kettle  covered  and  bbil  ten 
minutes. 

Dumplings  for  Soup. — One-half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  add  ^ 
teaspoon  of  salt ;  sift  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  with  1  quart  of 
flour;  stir  enough  into  the  milk  to  make  as  stiff  as  soft  biscuit  dough; 
do  not  mould,  but  when  the  soup  boils  well,  dip  the  batter  in  spoon- 
fuls and  keep  boiling  about  20  minutes ;  very  light  and  nice. 

Dumplings  for  Soup.-^II.  One  pint  of  milk;  2  eggs  well-beaten, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  a 
spoon  into  the  soup.  Cook  10  minutes ;  remove  to  dish,  dot  with 
butter  and  serve  with  the  meat;  They  can  be  cooked  in  boiling 
water  and  served  with  cold  meat. 

Potato  Dumplings. — Sprinkle  2  or  3  potatoes  with  a  little  salt 
and  plenty  of  flour;  mash  well,  then  drop  in  small  bits  in  the  boiling 
soup. 

Ifoodles.^One  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Work  in  all  the  flour 
that  this  will  take  up.  Roll  thin  as  possible,  and  dry,  then  roll  up 
and  slice  off  in  narrow  strips.  Drop  in  boiling  soup  and  let  boil 
fifteen  minutes  and  serve.    Chicken  with  noodles  is  good  (see  recipe). 

Soup  Served  Cold.-^— Make  good,  rich  beef  soup  in  the  usual 
manner;  let  it  cool  and  free  it  from  fat.  If  it  has  formed  a  jelly, 
simply  melt  it  over  the  stove  without  allowing  it  to  get  heated,  and 
pour  into  bouillon  cups  half  filled  with  cracked  ice.  Seasoned 
nicely,  and  eaten  with  wafers,  this  is  simply  delicious,  and,  with  a 
salad  of  lettuce  and  wholesome  Graham  bread,  is  as  healthful  and 
good  a  funch  as  one  can  take  in  August.  It  is  also  a  nice  soup  course 
for  dinner. 

-Beef  Soups. 

Bouillon. — Four  pounds  beef,  chopped  fine ;  4  quarts  cold  water. 
Put  the  beef  on  in  cold  water  and  let  it  take  at  least  an  hour  to  come 
to  a  boil.  Cook  very  slowly,  simmering  at  the  side  of  the  stove  and 
never  boiling  hard.  Keep  this  up  four  or  five  hours  until  this  water 
is  reduced  to  about  2  quarts.  Let  the  meat  get  cold  in  the  liquor. 
All  this  should  be  done  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used.  Next  day 
remove  the  grease  and  strain  the  liquor  through  a  thick  cloth,  squeez- 


38 


SOUPS, 


ing  every  drop  of  moisture  from  the  shreds  of  beef.  Put  the  liquor 
on  the  stove,  bring  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg. 
Boil  about  2  minutes  and  strain  the  soup  once  more.    The  result  will 

be  a  clear  amber-colored  fluid.  If  de- 
sired, this  may  be  darkened  by  the  ad- 
dition of  a  little  caramel. 

Of  course  thetouillon  may  be  made 
weaker,  but  these  directions  will,  if  fol- 
lowed exactly,  produce  most  satisfac- 
tory results.  Two  quarts  will  prove 
enough  for  sixteen  or  eighteen  medium- 
sized  tea  cups,  or  for  twenty  after-dinner 
coffee  cups.  In  summer  it  is  sometimes 
iced.  This,  with  fancy  sandwiches,  is 
often  served  at  an  afternoon  tea.  ■ 

To  make   quickly :  Take  1  can  of 
extract  of  beef.     Mix  with  3  quarts  of 
boiling  water  and  season  to  taste.  . 

Beef  Soup. — Six  pounds  of  lean  beef  (shank  mswers  very  well), 
have  the  bones  well  cracked  and  the  marrow  put  in  the  soup  with  6 
quarts  of  water ;  put  the  beef  bones  arid  all  into  a  close  vessel  with 
the  water  and  let  it  heat  gradually.  Let  it  simmer  six  hours  at  least, 
only  uncovering  it  once  in  a  while  to  see  if  there  is  danger  of  the 
water  getting  too  low;  should  this  be  the  case  replenish  withboiling 
water.  Set  away  until  next  morning.  About  an  .hour  before  dinner, 
take  out  the  beef,  which  you  can  use  for  mince-meat ;  remove  the 
cake  of  fat  from  the  stock,  set  the  soup  on  the  fire  and  put  in  a  little 
salt  to  -bring  up  the  sciim;  when  this  has  been  skimmed  off  put  in 
your  vegetables,  2  carrots,  ,3  turnips,  1  pint  of  green  or  canned  corn, 
1  head  of  celery,  1  quart  of  tomatoes;  these  should  be  prepared  for 
the  soup  by  boiling  them  in  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them  until 
they  break  to  pieces,  then  put  them  with  the  water  in  which  they 
were  cooked  into  the  soup,  return  the  pot  to  the  fire,  and  boil  one- 
half  hour ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  a  d  pepper.  For  a  family  soup  „ 
many  prefer  to  leave  in  the  vegetables. 

Beef  Soup. — II.  Break  the  bone  of  a  moderate-sized  shin  of  beef ; 
cover  with  5  or  6  quarts  of  cold  water  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of 
Salt;  remove  the  scum  and  cover  cloSely;  let  it  simmer  slowly  and 


SOUPS.  33 

steadily  for  5  or .6  hours;  take  but  the  beef,  and  set  the  stock  to  cool 
after  straining  it;  skim  well  the  next  day;  add  1  carrot,  2  small 
onions;  2  small  turnips,  cut  in  pieces,  %  pint  of  tomatoes,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  a  celery  top,  1  small  red  pepper,  spices  to  taste,  and  for  the 
thickening  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  browned  flour,,  rubbed  to- 
gether; place  in  the  tureen  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  mashed  smooth,  and 
turn  in  the  soup  after  straining.  This  soup  can  be  made  and  strained 
and  served  the  same  day.    All  or  part  of  the  vegetables  may  be  used. 

Cabbage  Beef  Soup. — Three  or  five  pounds  neck  or  coarser 
parts  of  beef  chopped  into  small  pieces.  Put  to  boil  in  5  quarts  of 
cold  water.  When  it  simmers,  skim ;  boil  slowly  for  four  or  five 
hours.  Take  out  the  meat  and  add  1  cup  each  of  chopped  turnips 
and  cabbage  and  half  a  cup  each  of  chopped  carrots  and  onions,  als/o 
1  cup  of  rice,  boil  till  the  rice  is  cooked.  Cabbage  may  be  used 
alone  and  the  other  vegetables  left  out  if  desired. 

JToodie  Soup. — Put  a  soup-bone  in  a  kettle  half-full  of  water  (any 
other  cheap  cut  of  meat  will  do).  Peel  and  slice  2  small  potatoes,  1 
turnip,  1  onion,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving 
put  in  the  noodles  and  let  them  cook. 

French  Beef  Soup  (Pot-au-feu). — Cut  into  small  pieces  and 
remove  all  the  fat  from  3J  pounds  of  the  cross  rib  or  shoulder  of 
beef  Take  a  large  knuckle  bone  that  has  been  well-broken  and  put 
it  and  the  beef  in  a  soup-kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water,  using  5 
quarts  at  least.  Heat  slowly,  watching  it,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  boiling 
skim  carefully.  When  it  has  been  thoroughly  skimmed  add  1  bay 
leaf,  1  red  pepper  or  1  dozen  black  pepper-corns,  1  can  of  tomatoes 
and  2  onions,  chopped.  Simmer  slowly  from  three  to  four  hours. 
Strain  and  serve  clear.  Color  it,  if  wished,  with  a  couple  teaspoonfuls 
of  caramel.  Turnips,  carrots,  and  a  little  chopped  celery  can  be  added 
if  desired.  The  vegetables  can  be  left  in,  and  the  soup  not  strained  for 
family  use.  If  thickening  is  desired,  wet  upji  tablespoonful  6f  flour 
in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  in  about  five  minutes  before  serving. 

Puree  of  Turnips  al'  Bspagnol. — Pare,  wash  and  quarter  3 
medium-sized  turnips  for  each  quart  of  veal  broth ;  to  this  allow  a 
gill  of  well-washed  rice,  an  ounce  of  butter,  salt,  white  pepper  and  a 
lump  of  white  sugar ;  simmer  gently  an  hour ;  rub  through  a  fine 
sieve ;  return  to  the  fire  till  scalding  hot,  and  pour  into  the  soup 
tureen  over  dice  of  fried  bread. 


40  SOUPS. 

.  '  Fayaily  Soup.— Time,  6  hours ;  3  or  4  quarts  of  the  liquor  in 
which  mutton  or  salt  beef  has  been  boiled.  Any  bones  from  dressed 
meat,  trimmings  of  poultry,  scraps  of  meat  or  1  pound  gravy  beef, 
2  large  onions,  1  turnip,  2  carrots,  a  little  celery  seed  tied  in  a  piece 
of  muslin,  bunch  savory  herbs,  1  sprig  parsley,  5  cloves,  2  blades 
mace,,  a  few  pepper-corns,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste."  Put  all  your 
meat  trimmings,  meat  bones,  etc.,  into  sjEw-pan.  Stick  onions  with 
cloves,  add  them  with  other  vegetables  to  meat ;  pour  oyer  all  the  pot 
liquor ;  set  over  slow  fire  and  let  simmer  gently,  removing  all  scum 
as  it  rises.     Strain  through  fine  hair  sieve. 

Marrow  Dumpling  Soup. — Remove  the  marrow  from  a  beef-leg 
soup-bone.  Put  the  bone  and  meat  on  to  boil  in  3  quarts  of  cold 
water,  with  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  large  onion,  chopped  fine;  bring 
to  a  boil  slowly  and  cobk  several  hours  :  half  an  hour  before  serving 
time  strain,  put  back  over  fire  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  briskly  boiling,  put  in  dumplings  made  as  follows :  Grate  4 
large  slices  of  stale  bread;  add  the  marrow,  2  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg, 
salt  and  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  make  into  little  dumplings 
the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  and  drop  into  the  boiling  soup.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes,  then  serve. 

Kiple  Soup.-r-  For  four  persons  take  an  egg,  and  into  this,  with 
the  floured  palms  of  the  hands,  rub  as  much  flour  as  the  egg  will 
hold.  Keep  on  rubbing  in  flour  until  the  dough  falls  from  the  palms 
in  tiny  little  flakes  or  ripples.  These  must  be  dropped  into  the 
boiling  soup  broth,  flavored  with  salt,  and  left  on  the  stove  until  they 
rise  to  the  surface.     This  miakes  a  thick  and  delicious  soup. 

Glace  Soup. — Take  one-half  loaf  stale  wheat  bread,  soak  in  water. 
Put  a  large  tablespoon  butter  on ,  griddle ;  when  hot  put  in  the  well- 
dried  bread,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  parsley  andl 
juice  of  1  onion.  Dry  well  and  then  put  in  a  bowl,  and  break  in  2 
eggs  and  mix  well.  Use  one-half  of  this  mixture  for  the  balls  ;  roll 
in  hand  and  make  the  size  of  marbles ;  make  a  clear  beef  soup,  and 
when  it  boils  drop  them  in  and  boil  two  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

tlressiMg  for  Veal — Use  other  half  of  mixture  left  from  soup  balls. 

Beef  Gumbo. — To  make  an  excellent  soup  with  gumbo  and 
meat,  cut  up  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  and  put  it  with  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter — a  good  grade  of  butterine  will  do  quite  as  well — 
and  1  onion,  sliced,  with  pepper  and  salt,  in  a  soup  kettle,  and  stir  it 


SOUPS.  41 

over  the  fire  until  it  is  all  very  brown,  then  add  4  quarts  of  cold 
water,  and  boil  gently  one  hour,  after  which  put  in  2  cupfuls  of 
chopped  okra,  and  simmer  all  for  nearly  four  hours  longer.  'The 
mucilaginous  matter  contained  in  the  okra  will  serve  to  thicken  the 
soup  without  the  addition  of  flour  or  other  like  substance. 

Veal  Soups. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. — The  old  Virginian  rule  for  mock  turtle  soup 
can  hardly  be  excelled,  and,  though  troublesome,  quite  deserves  to 
lead  off  the  Christmas  dinner.  To  make  it,  sOak  a  calf's  head,  well 
cleaned,  an  hour  in  cold  water  and  put  on  the  fire  in  5  quarts  of  cold 
water,  boiling  till  the  meat  slips  easily  from  the  bones.  Take  out  the 
head,  leaving  all  loose  bones  in  the  pot,  and  remo^fe  the  tongue  anq' 
brains,  putting  them  on  separate  plates  to  cool.  lAy  the  face  meal 
smoothly  on  a  plate,  that  it  may  cut  easily  into  dice  when  cold., 
Chop  the  rest  of  the  me^it  very  fine  and  reserve  a  cupful  for  forc« 
meat  balls7  Season  the  rest  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  mace,  3  of  salt,  1  of  pepper,  and  return 
to  the  pot,  simmering  all  for  four  hours  and 
not  allowing  the  broth  to  be  less  than  4  quarts. 
Two  hours  before  it  is  done  add  two  minced  _^.  . 
onions,  fried  brown  in  butter,  and  a  biinch  of 

sweet  herbs.  Make  force-meat  balls  by  seasoning  the  cupful  of  meat 
very  highly,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  allspice  and  of  mace ;  work  in  2  raw  eggs  and  make  the 
mixture  into  about  18  small  balls.  Flour  them  well  and  set  in  a  hot 
oven  till  a  crust  has  formed.  Cut  the  tongue  and  face  meat  into  dice 
and  put  into  the  tureen  with  the  balls.  Melt  4  spoonfuls  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  and  when  it  boils  add  4  of  sifted  flour,  stirring  till  brown 
and  adding  the  boiling  soup  till  it  can  be  easily  poured  into  the  soup 
pot.  It  should  make  the  soup  like  thick  cream.  The  soup  should 
have  first  been  strained  and  returned  to  the  pot  before  the  thickening 
is  added.  Add  2  glasses  of  sherry,  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  or 
walnut  catsup,  and  a  lemon  sliced  thin,  and  serve  at  once.  Slices  of 
hard  boiled  egg  are  sometimes  added.  It  is  equally  good  the 
second  day. 

Plain  Mock  Turtle  Soup. — Use  a  knuckle  of  veal,  or  4  calf's 
feet,  and  1  pound  of  veal ;  put  into  the  soup  kettle  with  3  quarts  d 


42 


SOUPS. 


coljd'water ;  simmer  slowly,  until  the  meat  falls  ofif  the  bones.  When 
nearly  done,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  powdered  thyme  or  sweet 
marjoram,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  mace,  one-half  teaspoonful  ground 
cloves  and  salt.  Brown  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  the  same  quantity 
of  butter,  stir  well  into  the  soup  and  strain.  The  next  morning 
^remove  the  fat  thoroughly  and  warm  gradually,  and  add  yoke  of 
hard-boiled  egg.  To  this  may  be  added  force-meat  balls,  musj^rooms, 
far  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Consomme  with  Egg  Dumplings. — Boil  2  shanks  of  veal  in  4 
quarts  of  water,  add  vegetables,  season  to  taste  with  sweet  herbs. 
When  done,  strain  through  a  napkin.  Color, 
if  desired,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  caramel,  6t, 
it  can  be  turned  into  a  jar  and  cooled,  when  the 
fat  will  rise  to  the  top.  This  can  be  removed 
in  a  cake,  and  the  soup  can  be  poured  off  with- 
out disturbing  the  sediment.  Boil  egg  dump- 
lings in  the  soup  15  minutes  before  the  soup  is 
The  veal  shanks  may  be  made  into  veal  loaf,  of 


Alphabet  Cutters. 


served  (see  recipe), 
veal  cheese. 

Veal  Soup,  Plain. — ^A  knuckle  of  leg  of  veal.  Boil  it  with  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  rice.  Season  with  pepper  knd  salt,  and  a  little 
pairsley  or  celery.  Before  the  soup  is  seasoned,  talce  out  the  veal. 
Force-meat  balls  or  egg  dumplings  may  be  added.  Thicken  with  a 
little  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  milk  or  water.  Turn  it'  over  slices  of 
toast  in  the  tureen. 

Tapioca  Veal  Soup.— rMake  the  soup  as  for  plain  veal  soup. 
Skim  carefully,  season.  Soak  J  cup  of  pearl  tapioca  in  a  cup  of 
milk.  When  the  soup  is  nearly  done,  remove  the  meat,  skim  off 
every  particle  of  fat  and  stir  in  the  tapioca  until  it  dissolves  in  the 
hot  soup.     Siinmer  half  an  hour,  add  a  little  celery  essence  and  serve. 

Bonne  Femme  Soup. — Heat  1  quart  chicken  or  veal  stock. 
Boil  1  pint  good  milk.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  to  them 
the  boiling  milk,  and  stir' this  into  the  soup  quickly;  do  not  let  boil. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  with  croutons  or  small  triangles 
of  toast. 

Brown  Veal  Soup.-^Take  the  liquor  in  which  a  calf's  head  has 
been  boiled,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  season  with  salt  and  spice  to 
taste.     Add  1  hard-boiled  egg  cut  in  pieces  and  1  sliced  lemon. 


SOUPS.  43 

Mutton  Soups. 

Scotch  Mutton  Brotli. — Time,  three  and  a  half  hours ;  6  lbs.  neck 
of  mutton,  3  quarts  water,  5  carrots,  5  turnips,  2  onions,  4  tablespoon- 
fols  Scotch  barley,  a  little  salt.  Soak  mutton  in  water  for  an  hour,  cut 
off  scrag,  and  put  it  in  stew-pan  with  3  quarts  of  water.  As  soon  as  it 
boils  skim  well  and  then  simmer  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Cut  best 
end  of  mutton  into  cutlets,  dividing  it  with  2  bones  in  each;  take  off 
nearly  all  fat  before  putting  into  broth;  skim  the  moment  meat  boils, 
and  frequently  afterwards ;  add  carrot?,  turnips  and  onions^all  cut  into 
2  or  3  pieces,  then  put  them  into  soup  soon  enough  to  be  thoroughly 
done;  stir  in  Scotch  barley;  add  salt  to  taste,  let  all  stew  together 
for  three  and  a  half  hours;  about  half  an  a  hour  before  sending  it  to 
table,  put  in  little  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Mutton  Turnip  Soup.-^Leg  of  mutton  and  5  quarts  of  water, 
Cover  close  and  boil  two  hours.  Skim.  Put  in  1  onion,  a  dozen  small 
white  turnips,  quartered,  a  little  thyme  finely  minced.  Boil  two  hours 
longer.  Take  out  the  joint,  strain  the  soup,  return  it  to  the  fire,  add 
a  cup  of  milk  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  1;ablespoonful  of  flour  and 
1  of  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  boil  up  once,  stirring  all 
the  time. 

Pepper  Pot. — To  4  quarts  of  water  put  1  pound  of  corned  pork, 
1  pound  of  neck  or  scrag  of  mutton  and  a  small  knuckle  of  veal.  Let 
this  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours,  skimming  all  the  while,  and  then 
take  out  the  mutton,  which  will  serve  as  a  special  dish  for  the  table 
with  celery  sauce.  Into  the  broth  put  4  sliced  white  turnips,  6 
tomatoes  or  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  ketchup,  an  onion  in  thin 
slices,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  to'  taste.  Add  to  this  a  J  lb.  of  tripe 
in  1  inch  strips,  6  potatoes  thinly  sliced  and  a  dozen  whole  cloves. 
Simmer  for  an  hour.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  add  dumplings  no 
bigger  than  a  marble*  Serve  hot.  removing  the  ,Dork  and  veal  bone 
before  serving. 

Mutton  Soup  with  Cheese  Dumplings.— Make  a  stock  from  5 
cents'  worth  of  soup  mutton,  a  pitece  from  the  neck  is  best,  form  drop 
balls  with  J  cupful  of  flour,  J  cupful  of  milk,  1  Jtablespoonful  of 
butter,  1  of  grated  cheese,  and  1  egg.  Mix  evenly,  set  in  another 
basin  filled  with  hot  water,  and  cook  about  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly; then  set  away  to  cool.    When  cold,  roll  Jnto  little  balls  about 


44  SOUPS. 

the  size  of  hickory  nuts.  Drop  into  boiling  water  and  cook  gently  five 
minutes,  but  be  careful -they  do  not  break.  Put  in  the  soup  tureen 
and  pour  boiling  stock  over  them.  A  plate  of  finely  grated  cheese 
may  be  passed  with  the  soup. 

liamb  Broth. — Take  3  to  4  pounds  of  lamb,  put  into  3  quarts  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  one  hour ;  be  sure  to  skim  when  it  first 
boils  up ;  add  f  cup  of  rice  and  let  it  boil  three  hours  till  the  meat  is 
tender;  stir  occasionally.  If  the  water  boils  away  or  it  is  too  thick, 
add  hot  "water;  salt  to  taste,  peel  and  slice  4  potatoes;  add  to  broth 
half  an  hour  before  serving;  very  nice.  If  one  likes  it,  add  a  little 
oweet  marjoram  or  poultry  seasoning. 

Mutton  Broth. — Cut  2  lbs.  of  lean  mutton  into  squares,  remov* 
ing  every  particle  of  fat.  Cover  with  1  quart  of  cold  water;  let  it  come 
to  the  boil,  and  simmer  slowly  two  hours.  Twenty  minutes  before 
it  is  taken  up,  add  1  tablespoon  of  well-washed  rice.  Put  in  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.    Add  vegetables  if  liked,  or  dumplings. 

^  Chicken  Soups. 

Chicken  Soup. — Cut  up  the  fowl  and  put  it  in  a  stew  pan  with  i 
quarts  of  water  (cold),-  stew  until  there  are  but  3  quarts  left.  Take 
out  the  chicken;  season  the  liquor  and  add  a  small  cupful  of  rice. 
Cook  rice  tender.  If  you  like,  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  1  or  2  beaten 
eggs  just  before  serving.     Stew,  not  boil,  the  chicken. 

Chicken  Vegetahle  Soup. — Wash  a  fat  hen.  Stuff  it  if  desired, 
truss  it  so  it  will  be  presentable  on  the  table,  put  it  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  4  quarts  of  water,  bOil  2  hours ;  slice  3  or  4  Irish  pota- 
toes ;  1  large  onion ;  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley ;  1  tea- 
spoonful  celery-seed,  and  a  bit  of  summer  savory,  if  you  have  it ;  J 
red  pepper-pod,  salt  to  taste.  When  the  soup  has  boiled  one  hour  add 
the  vegetables^  and  when  nearly  done  put  in  a  pint  of  sweet  milk. 
\  Chicken  Com  Soup. — Cut  up  one  large  fowl  and  boil  until  ten- 
der in  4  quarts  of  water.  Remove  the  chicken  and  save  1  cupful  of 
the  broth.  Add  the  kernels  from  1  dozen  ears  of  corn,  or  1  can  of 
corn  to  the  soup  and  stew  one  hour  longer.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  parsley  or  celery.  Thicken  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  1  cdp  of  milk.  Let  boil  up  and  serve.  Veal  may 
be  substituted  for  chicken  in  making,  this  soup. 

Take  the  chicken  and  serve  it  with  the  following  gravy :  To  the 


SOUPS.  45 

cup  of  chicken  broth  add  1  beaten  egg ;  let  it  boil  up  and  pour  over 
the  chicken. 

Mullagata-wny  Soup. — Cut  in  small  pieces  the  breast  of  a  young 
chicken  after  it  has  cooked  in  soup  stock.  Put  on  the  fire  the  carcass 
and  bones  of  the  chicken,  add  enough  soup  stock  to  cover  it,  simmer 
for  one  hour  and  strain.  Fry  2  small  onions  in  1  ounce  of  butter ; 
add  f  of  an  ounce  of  flour ;  stir  well ;  pour  the  broth  in  the  butter 
and  onions ;  boil  up ;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  diluted  curry  pOwder, 
J  a  cup  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  1,0  minutes.  Put  the 
chicken  meat  in  the  soup  tureen,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiled  rice,  pour 
over  the  soup  stock  and  serve.  Some  epicures  insist  upon  rabbit  for 
this  soup.     If  used,  proceed  in  the  same  fashion. 

Giblet  Soup. — Wash  2  sets  of  giblets.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  set  over  the  fire.  Have  cut  up  1  onion, 
1  carrot  and  1  stalk  of  celery ;  when  the  butter  is  hot,  put  these  in 
and  fry  brown.  Skim  them  out  and  put  them  in  a  soup-kettle  with 
J  a  gallon  of  water,  the  giblets,  a  pound  of  lean  beef  and  a  sprig  of 
parsley.  Set  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  let  simmer  until  the  giblets , 
are  tender ;  skim  until  clear.  Rub  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  1  of 
butter  together,  and  stir  into  the  soup.  Take  out  the  giblets,  cut  into 
pieces,  an3  put  them  into  the  soup-tureen  with  the  yolks  of  6  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Strain  the  soup,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour 
into  the  tureen. 

CMckeu  or  Turkey  Soup. — Take  the  bones  and  body  of  the 
fowl  after  the  meat  has  nearly  all  beeii  taken  off,  and  put  it  with  3 
pints  of  water  to  boil ;  let  it  cook  slowly  for  tyo  hours ;  by  this  time 
all  the  meat  should  leave  the  bones;  if  the  water  has  boiled  away, 
add  more ;  remove  the  bones ;  there  should  be  considerable  meat  in 
the  broth ;  to  this  add  8  good-sized  potatoes  and  4  or  5  onions,  ? 
carrots,  2  small  turnips,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  twenty  minutes 
before  serving  add  dumplings.  Try  this  for  supper  some  cold  night, 
and  you  will  agree  with  me  that  it  is  excellent.  .If  there  is  any  of 
the  dressing  left,  add  half  a  cupful  to  soup.  f 

Turkey  Soup. — Take  the  turkey  bones  and  cook  for  one  hour  in 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  then  stir  in  a  little  of  the  dressing  and 
a  beaten  egg.  A  little  chopped  celery  improves  it.  Take  from  the 
fire,  and  when  the  water  has  ceased  bpiling  add  a  little  butter,  with 
pepper  and  salt. 


46  SOUPS. 

Gumbo  Soup. — ^The  canned  okra,  can  be  used  for  this,  or  dried 
,  oki^  soaked  over  night,  either  making  an  excellent  soup.  ^Slice  3 
red  onions  fine,  and  fry  brown  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  to 
this  i  of  a  pound  of  ham  cut  in  dice  and  fry  one  minute,  J  a  ciip  ol 
washed  rice,  1  can  of  tomatoes  and  the  okra,  and  a  cupful  of  beef 
stock,  with  y  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  J  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne.' 
Cover  and  stew  very  slowly  for  not  less  than  four  hours.  It  must  be 
stirred  often,  to  prevent  burning,  as  okra  is  very  sticky.  This  makes 
a  very  thick  soup.  If  preferred  thinner,  add  more  broth,  but  in  the 
South  it  is  eaten  thick.  To  this  gunibo  oysters  are  often  added,  fifty 
being  used  and  put  into  a  pan  with  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter  till 
very  slightly  browned. 

Gumbo  Soup. — II.  To  "a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  add  a  gallon_of 
water  and  set  to  boil  several  hours  before  the  soup  will  be  needed. 
Have  ready  a  skillet  with  lard  or  unsalted  butter  that  has  come  to 
the  bubbling  point.  Into  this  drop  either  1  small  or  J  of  a  large 
chicken  that  has  been  jointed  and  cut  up  for  frying,  1  onion,  and  a 
dozen  pods  of  okra  cut  into  slices  lengthwise.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
^  taste.  When  this  mixture  is  fried  to  "a  delicate  brown,  transfer  the 
ientire  contents  of  the  skillet  to  the  vessel  containing  the  tomatoes, 
and  let  the  combination  boil  down  to  a  thick  consistency.  "To  those 
with  a  peppery  palate  a  green  pepper  or  a  red  one  cut  up  into  the 
boiling  mass  commends  itself.  This  same  preparation  may  be  made 
with  shrimps  instead  of  chicken.  Always  the  result  is  an  extremely 
rich  and  heavy  soup.  G]uinbo  should  always  be  served  with  rice, 
not  that  glutinous  mass  which  so  often  offends  the  eye  and  insults 
the  grain  on  hotel  tables,  but  rice  cooked  in  South  Carolina  style, 
which  is  simply  rice  in  perfection.  Gumbos  occupy  the  medium 
ground  between  soups  and  stews. 

CMcken  Gum^bo. — Cut  up  the  chicken  meat  or  game  to  make 
the  soup.  Fry  in  butter  to  a  light  brown  with  1  onion  cut  fine ; 
add  boiling  water  in  proportion  to  the  nieat.  2  pounds  of  meat  or 
chicken  and  J  pound  of-  ham  will  take  4  quarts  of  water.  This, 
boiled  down,  will  make  sufficient  for  six  persons.  Let  the  gumbo 
simmer  for  two  hours.  Slice  about  1  pint  of  green  okra  pods,  brown 
them  in  the  same  pan  after  the  chfcken  is  put  in  soup,  and  add 
at  once.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  ilour  to  the  fat  in  the  pan ;  stir  until 
it  browns;  thin  with  J  a  cup  of  the  liquor  and  stir  it  into  the  soup. 


SOUPS.  47 

0}reters  are  an  improvement.  Scald  their  liquor,  pour  into  the 
soup,  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Add  thd  oysters  in  time  enough 
for  them  to  boil  up  once  or  twice. 

Gumbo  Filee. — Make  as  above,  save  in  the  absence  of  okra  1 
tablespoon  of  th.tfiUe  is  added.  This  is  a  preparation  of  dried  sas. 
safras  leaves  with  a  small  quantity  of  pulverized  bay  leaves. 

Gombo  Soup,  with  Grabs. — Mince  an  onion  and  fry  it  in  butter 
#rith  an  equal  quantity  of  small  dice  of  raw  ham ;  cover  with  a  quart 
of  white  broth  and  add  half  of  a  minced  green  pepper,  half  a  dozen 
sliced  okras,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  and  2  tomatoes  cut  in  dice ; 
season ;  cook  for  half  an  hour^  simmering  slowly,  and  add  the  meat 
from  2  boiled  crabs  or  3  soft-shelled  crabs  cut  small. 

Meat  Vegetable  Soups. 

Vegetable  Soup. — Two  or  three  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  salt 
po;:k  mixed,  1  small  head  of  cabbage,  1  turnip,  1  large  onion,  1  small 
beet ;  boil  separately  from  the  meat.  When  the  other  T^egetables  are 
beginning  to  get  done,  add  2  or  3  potatoes.  When  all  are  done  well, 
chop  fine,  chop  the  meat,  put  together  and  season. 

Summer  Vegetable  Soup. — ^To  prepare  this  soup  take  2  pounds 
of  the  neck  of  beef,  a  quart  of  sliced  tomatoes,  a  quart  of  corn  sliced 
from  the  cob,  3  pints  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  of  flour, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Put  the  meat  and  water  into  a 
soup-pot,  and  as  soon  as  the  liquor  begins'  to  boil,  skim  it  carefully. 
Simmer  for  three  hours,  then  add  the  tomato  and  corn  cobs.  Cook 
for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  into  another  kettle  and  add  the  corn,  the 
flour  and  butter  mixed  together  and  enough  salt  and  pepper  to  sea- 
son well.     Cook  forty  nainutes  longer,  then  serve. 

Julienne  Sonp. — Cut  }^  pint  of  carrots,  }^  pint  turnips,  }(,  pint 
mions,  2  beets  and  %  head  of  celery  into  small  dice.  Fry  carrots  in 
1  ounce  of  butter,  and  pour  over  them  2  quarts  of  boiling  stock,  then 
add  the  other  vegetables  and  %,  pint  peas ;  stew  all  gently  for  an 
hour. 

Economical  Sonp. — Take  a  cold  roast-beef  bone,  pieces  of  beef- 
steak, the  remnants  of  a  cold  turkey  or  chicken.  Put  them  mto  a 
pot  with  3  or  4  quarts  of  water,  2  carrots,  3  turnips,  1  onion,  a  few 
cloves,  pepper  and  salt,  Boil  the  whole  gently  four  hours,  then 
strain  it  through  a  colander,  mashing  the  vegetables  so  that  they  will 


48  SOUPS. 

pass  through.  Skim  off  the  fat  and  return  the  soup  to  the  pot.  Mix 
I'tablespoonful  of  flour  with  2  of  water,  stir  it  into  the  soup  and  boil 
the  whole  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  bits  of  dry  toast  cut  into  a  trian- 
gular form. 

Puree  of  Cauliflower,  or  Cauliflower  Cream  Soup. — One  quart 
of  soup-stock,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint  of  cooked  'cauliflower,  1  table* 
spoonful  of  minced  onion,  salt,  white  pepper  or  Cayenne,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Cold  cauliflower  can  be  used.  If  cooked 
for  the  purpose  pick  in  small  branches  and  boil  in  salted  water  until 
done.  Boil  the  minced  onion  in  the  soup-stock.  Mash  the  cauli- 
flower and  add,  together  with  the  milk  which  should  be  boiling  hot. 
Season.  Thicken,  if  necessary,  with  a  little  flour  until  the  consist- 
ency of  thin  cream.  Add  a  lump  of  butter  and  the  minced  parsley. 
A  puree  is  a  thick,,  creamy  soup  where  the  ingredients  are  mashed 
fine,  and  the  soup  not  strained.  - 

Ham  Bone  Soup. — Boil  the  ham^bone  (it  should  have  some  meat 
left  on  it),  in  fresh  water  for  about  five  minutes.  Pour  off  this  first 
water  and  cover  the  bone  with  fresh  water.  Cook  it  gently  and  sea- 
son to  taste.  Cut  up  potatoes  fine  and  add  to  the  soup.  Just  before 
serving  pour  in  1  cup  of  milk,  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Before 
putting  in  the  milk- all  fat  should  be  skimmed  from  the  soup,  Other 
vegetables  may  be  added  if  wished.  If  corn  beef  is  not  too  salt,  soup 
may  be  made  in  the  same  manner  from  the  water  in  .which  it  has 
been  boiled,  One  ^%'g  may  be  beaten  and  stirred  stiff  with  flour, 
and  the  mixture  dropped  by  bits  into  the  soup,  aiid  will  be  found  an 
improvement. 

Bean  Porridge. — ^Take  4  or  5  pounds  of  the  cheaper  portions  of 
beef  in  a  large  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil, 
skimming  at  intervals.  Soak  1  quart  of  beans  oyer  night.  Put  these 
over  in  cold  water  to  which  one-half  teaspbonful  of  soda  has  been 
added.  Let  boil  until  they  begin  to  soften.  Then  skim  from  the , 
soda-water  into  the  boiling  soUp.  When  nearly  done  mix  yi  pint  of 
corn  m^al,  smooth  with  cold  water  and  stir  in,  adding  2  red  pepper 
pods  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  croutons,  or  small  squares  of  toast,  in  the 
tureen,  and  turn  the  soup  over  them.  This  dish  improves  with  age. 
Supply  the  loss  by  cooking  with  boiling  water  from  the  tea-kettle. 
When  done  it  should  be  the  consistency  of  ordinary  bean  soup. 

Bean  and  Com  Soup. — One  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  in  small 


SOUPS.  49 

pieces,  }4  pound  of  salt  pork,  1  quart  of  dried  white  beans  soaked 
over  night,  1  onion  sliced,  1  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  1  of  pepper 
and  2  of  salt,  a  little  parsley,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  ca;n  of  corn, 
or  the  same  amount  of  green  corn  cut  from  the  ear,  5  quarts  of  water. 
Put  everything  together  but  the  corn,  and  boil  slowly  2  hours,  or 
until  the  beans  are  soft.  Half-an-hour  before  serving,'  stew  the  corn 
slowly  in  a  separate  sauce-pan,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a 
little  salt.  Strain  the  soup  through  a  colander,  rubbing  the  beans  to 
a  pulp.  Put  over  the  fire  again  and  add  the  corn.  Boil  altogether  a 
minute,  and  serve  with  toasted  crackers.  If  wanted  for  a  substantial 
meal,  this  soup  may  be  made  without  straining. 

TJean  and  Tomato  Soup. — Make  the  bean  soup  after  the  above 
recipe,  substituting  in  place  of  the  corn  a  can  of  tomatoes,  or  the 
same  amount  of  fresh  tomatoes.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  put  the 
tomatoes  Qver  the  fire,  season  and  stew  to  a  pulp,  rub  through  a  col- 
ander and  add  to  the  soup.  Put  croutons,  or  small  squares  of  toast, 
in  the  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 

Black  Bean  Soup. — ^Take  ordinary  soup  stock.  Soak  IJ  cups 
of  black  beans  all  night,  cook  them  soft  in  the  same  water  and  press 
through  a  sieve ;  chop  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  into  the  tureen. 
Add  the  beans  to  the  hot  stock,  season  and  pour  into  tureen.  White 
beans  can  be  made  into  soup  in  the  same  way. 

Bean  Soup. — ^Take  the  bones  and  scraps  of  meat  left  from  steaks 
and  chops,  boil.with  a  pint  of  navy  beans  until  the  beans  are  tender; 
season  to  taste,  and  just  before  serving  add  a  cup  of  milk;  let  it  boil  up, 

Spanish  Bean  Soup. — Soak  1  quart  of  beans  over  night,  boil  them 
the  next  morning  till  tender,  add  1  small  white  cabbage,  which  haa 
been  cut  up  fine,  a  bit  of  bacon,  a  whole  red  pepper  and  some  salt ; 
boil  the  whole  for  an  hour.  Heat  some  lard  or  drippings  in  a  sauce> 
pan  and  fry  in  it  a  sliced  onion ;  put  in  the  soup  little  by  little;  stir 
often  with  a  wooden  spoon.  This  is  a  perfect  representative  of  the 
favorite  soup  kept  for  all  travelers  in  Spanish  climes. 

Bean  Porridge. — Boil  6  pounds  of  fresh  or  corned  beef;  have 
about  6  quarts  of  liquor;  parboil  1  quart  of  kidney  beans;  rinse 
and  boil  in  the  liquor  until  done ;  when  nearly  done  add  1 J  quarts  of 
hulled  com ;  thicken^with  corn  meal,  to  which  a  little  flour  has  been 
added ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Baked  Bean  Soup. — Put  them  over  the  fire  with  an  onion  stuck 

COOK— 4 


50  SOUPS. 

with  three  cloves  attd  a  quart  of  water;  boil  half  an  howr,  press 
through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  fire,  dilute  to  the  piroper  consistency 
with  miUc  or  water ;  stir  in  some  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
serve  in  pretty  cups. 

Bean  Soup  with  Croutons.  (In  French,  puree  de  haricots  aux 
croutons.) — A  puree  is  any  kind  of  mashed  vegetables.  One-quarter 
of  a  pint  white  beans,  1  onion;  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg;  1  teaspoon 
of  salt ;  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Pick,  wash  the  beans  and  put  them  over 
the  fire  with  1  quart  of  cold  water.  Cover  the  beans  and  let  them 
boil  firom  3  to  3 J  hours.  Then  press  them  through  the  colander 
until  nothing  but  their  skins  are  left.  Put  the  puree  back  in  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  with  the  water  in  which  the  beans  have  cooked. 
If  the  water  has  evaporated  during  the  cooking,  add  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  the  soup  of  right  consistenfcy.  Next  add  the  salt, 
pepper  and  onions,  which  have  been  previously  minced  fine.  Boil 
slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Put  the  butter  in  the  soup  tureen  and  pour 
*;be  soup  on  it,  and  serve  with  fried  croutons. 

Bean  Soup  without  Meat. — Soak  quart  white  beans  over  night ; 
In  morning  pour  off  water  ;~^dd  fresh  and  set  over  fire  until  skins  Will 
easily  slip  off;  throw  them  into  cold  water,  rub  well  and  skins  will- 
rise  to  top,  where  they  may  be  removed.  Boil  beans  until  perfectly 
soft,  allowing  2  quarts  of  water  to  1  quart  beans ;  mash  beans,  add 
flour  and  butter,  rub  together,  also  salt  and  pepper.  Gut  cold  bread 
into  small  pieces,  toast  and  drop  on  soup  when  you  serve. 

Macaroni  or  Vermicelli  Soup. — Two  small  carrots,  4  onions,  2 
turnips,  2  cloves,  1  tablespoonful  salt;  pepper  to  taste.  Royal  herbs^— 
marjoram,  parsley  and  thyme.  Any  cooked  or  uncooked  meat.  Put 
soup  bones  in  enough  water  to  cover ;  when  they  boil,  skim,  add  the 
vegetables.  Simmer  3  or  4  hours,  strain  through  colander  and  put 
back  in  saucepan  to  reheat.  Boil  half  pound  macaroni  until  quite 
tender,  place  in  soup  tureen  and  pour  soup  over  it — the  last  thing. 
Vermicelli  will  only  need  to  be  soaked  a  short 
time — not  boiled. 

Split  Pea  Soup. — Take  2  quarts  of  cold 
water,  1  cup  of  peas,  3  onions  (if  you  like  them), 
cut  in  sliceSj  1  ..pound  of  raw  beef,  cut  up ;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  boil  3  hours;  take  out  the 
beef  and  run  the  soup  through  a  sieve ;   mash 


SOUPS.  01 

it  all  through;  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  serve  very  hot  with  toasted 
bread  or  crackers. 

Pea  Soup. — One  pint  of  peas  soaked  over  night;  boil  in  4  quarts 
of  good  beef  stock,  with  an  onion,  turnip  and  carrot,  if  desired;  stir 
frequently,  that  it  may  not  burn ;  serve  with  toasted  bread  cut  in 
small  pieces. 

Dried  Grreen  Pea  Soup. — One  pint  of  dried  peas,  2  onions,  1 
turnip,  1  carrot,  some  outside  leaves  of  celery,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  pepper;  soak  the  peas  for  12  hours,  put  them  on  to 
boil  in  2  quarts  of  cold  rain  water;  waSh  and  cut  up  the  vegetables, 
and  when  the  water  boils  add  them  to  the  peas,  also  the  salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  all  boil  slowly  for  3  hours ;  stir  often ;  after  that  time 
pour  through  a  sieve,  rub  all  through  that  is  possible,  put  back  into, 
saucepan  to  get  quite  hof ;  serve  with  crisp  toast  cut  into  dices. 

Piquant  Pea  Soup. — One  pint  of  green  dried  peas — or  fresh  ones. 
If  dried,  scald  in  a  solution  of  saleratus  water,  blanch  them  thoroughly 
and  cook  gently  in  2  quarts  of  water  until  tender  and  soft.  Pass  them 
through  a  sieve.  Chop  2  onions  and  fry  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
add  6  cloves  andTT)ay  leaf  and  then  stir  all  together.  Put  in  a 
tablespoon^  of  salt -and  a  cup  of  either  canned  or  whole  tomatoes. 
Let  the  whole  cook  very  slowly  for  an  hour,  when,  if  it  seems  too 
thick,  add  a  little  boiling  water  and  let  it  cook  a  little  longer.  Then 
add  a  pinch  of  red  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  just 
before  serving  a  cupful  of  squares  of  bread  which  have  been  fried 
brown  in  butter  until  of  a  pretty  golden  hue. 

Green  Pea  Soup  without  Meat. — Turn  a  can  of  peas  into  a  large 
saucepan  and  cover  them  with  hot  water.  Add  a  small  onion  sliced 
and  let  them  boil  until  the  peas  are  soft.  Mash  them  and  add  a  pint 
of  water.  Melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  stir  into  it  1  spoonful 
of  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  add  to  the  cooked  peas  2  cupfuls  of 
rich  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Let  the 
soup  boil  up  once  after  the  milk  is  added ;  then  rub  through  a  coarse 
sieve  and  serve  with  tiny  squares  of  fried  bread. 

Green  Pea  Puree.— Steam  1  pint  of  fresh  or  canned  green  peas 
in  1  pint  of  hot  water  until  they  are  perfectly  soft ;  rub  through  a 
sieve,  add  salt,  pepper  and  other  condiments  to  suit  taste.  Boil  and 
then  add  a  gill  of  cream,  and  then  boil  again,  and  serve  with  fried 
bread  or  toast. 


52 


SOUPS. 


,  Macaroni  Soup  (Veal). — Three  pounds  of  a  joint  of  veal,  well 
broken  up ;  put  in  4  quarts  of  water  and  set  it  to  boil ;  prepare  J  of  a 
pound  of  macaroni  by  boiling  it  by  itself,  with  sufficient  water  to  cover 
it ;  add  a  little  butter  to  the  macaroni  when  it  is  tender ;  strain  the  soup 
and  sfcason  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  the  macaroni  in 
the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  The  addition  of  1  pint  of  rich  milk 
or  cream  and  celery  flavor  is  relished  by  many. 

Vermicelli  Soup. — Boil  a  shin  of  veal  in  4  quarts  of  water.  Skim 
it  very  carefully,  then  put  in  1  onion,  1  carrot  and  a  turnip,  not  cut 
up,  and  boil  3  hours.  Add^alt,  2  cups  of  vermicelli  and  boil  an 
hour  •  and  a  half  longer.  Remove  the  bone  and  vegetables  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve, 

Ox-Tail  Soup. — ^Wash  2  ox-tails  a^id  cut  them  into  pieces,  sepa- 
rating them  at  the  joints.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  fry- 
ing pan,  and  when  it  becomes  hot  put  in  the  pieces 
of  ox-tail  and  an  onion  cut  in  slices  and  fry  them 
to  a  light  brown.  Put  the  browned  meat  in  a  soup 
kettle,  with  3  quarts  of  cold  water,  1  bay  leaf,  1  car- 
rot, sliced,  a  stick  of  celery,  4  cloves,  and  6  whole 
peppers.  Let  them  cook  slowly  3  hours.  Pick 
out  some  of  the  pieces  of  ox-tail  for  the  tureen. 
Season  the  soup  with  salt  and  strain  and  remove 
the  grease.  Then  reheat  and  add  the  pieces  of  ox- 
tail and  turn  into  the  tureen.  i 

Soup  NeapoUtau. — Five  cups  of  well-seasoned 
stock.  Make  a  paste  of  1  egg  in  flour,  to  which  a  pinch  of  salt  has 
been  added.  Form  intp  balls  the  size  of  a  thimble,  drop  in  the  soup 
10  minutes  before  serving,  season  with  sal^  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of 
Parmesan  cheese  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

'  Hasty  Soup. — Chop  some  cold  cooked  meat  fine,  and  put  a  pint 
into  a  stew  pan  with  some  jgravy,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
little  butter  if  the  gravy  is  not  rich,  add  a  little  flour  moistened  with 
cold  water,  and  3  pints  boiling  water,  boil  moderately  half  an  hour. 
Strain  over  some  rice  pr  nicely  toasted  bread,  and  serve.  Uncooked 
meat  m_ay  be  used  by  using  1  quart  of  cold  watey  to  a  pound  of 
chopped  meat,  and  letting  it  stand  half  an  hour  before  boiling. 
Celery  root  may  be  grated  in  as  seasoning,  or  a  branch  of  parsley 
thrown  in. 


SOUPS.  53 

,  Mock  Oyster  Soup. — Place  on  the  stove  a  teacupful  of  shredded 
codfish  in  a  quart  of  cold  water.  ■  Let  simmer  half  an  hour,  add  a 
pint  of  stewed  tomatoes  and  a  very  little  saleratus.  Boil  5  minutes, 
add  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  slice  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  When 
it  reaches  the  boiling  point  serve  with  crackers. 

Bice  Mieat  Soup. — Three  ounces  of  riccy  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  J 
pint  of  cream  or  new  milk,  1  quart  of  stock.  Boil  the  rjce  in  the  stock, 
and  rub  half  of-  it  through  a  sieve  or  tammy,  put  the  stock  in  a  stew 
pan,  add  the  rest  of  the  rice  whole,  and  simmer  for  5  minutes.  Beat 
the  yalks  and  mix  with  the  cream  or  milk,  boiled.  Take  the  soup 
off  the  fire,  and  add  the  cream  and  eggs.     Heat  to  boiling  point. 

Bice  Meat  Soup. — II.  Three  pints  ofveal  or  chicken  or  beef  broth 
will  be  needed  as  a  basis  for  this  excellent  soup.  Wash  J  cupful  of 
rice  and  put  it  on  with  the  broth  to  cook.  Put  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  into  a  pan,  and  put  into  it  when  hot  3  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
chopped  carrot,  celery  and  onion.  Let  them  cook  slowly  20  min- 
utes, then  remove  the  vegetables  to  the  soup ;  stir  2  tablespoonfuls 
flour  into  the  butter  left  from  the  vegetables,  add  that  to  the  soup 
with  a  bit  of  mace,  3  cloves,  ^  teaspoon  pepper  and  3  teaspoonfuls 
salt.  Let  all  simmer  gently  2  hours.  Strain  soup,  add  a  quart  of 
rich  milk  heated  in  a  double  boiler,  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Game  Soups. 

Puree  of  Game. — ^A  very  good  game  soup  may  bfi_  prepared 
frona  the  remnants  of  game,  even  of  different  kinds.  Bpil  the  pieces, 
bones  and  all  of  the  different  birds  for  an  hour  or  more  in  water,  or 
better  still,  in  weak  broth  or  soup  stock.  Boil  3  or  4  tiirnips  or  heads 
of  cauliflowers  and  rub  or  mash  fine.  Pound  the  meat  fine  and  rub 
through  a  sieve  to  a  powder,  and  return  meat  and  cauliflower  to  the 
soup,  together  with  2  eggs  beaten  into  f  pint  of  milk.  Let  this  reach 
the  boiling  point  (but  not  boil),  and  serve  hot.  < 

■White  Babbit  Soup. — ^Two  rabbits,  disjointed,  1  head  celery,  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  a  minced  onion.  Put  these  into  3  quarts  of 
water,  and  boil  gently  until  tender.  Take  out  the  best  pieces  of  rabbit 
for  a  separate  dish.  Separate  the  rest  of  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
replace  the  bones  in  the  kettle  and  boil  an  hour ;  strain  the  liquid  in 
which  they  have  boiled  and  let  it  cool.  Rub  the  meat  fine  with  th« 
yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  a  few  bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  put 


54  SOUPS. 

through  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  soup ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ; 
let  it  simmer  1 5  minutes,  thickening  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  or  rice  flour^ 

Brown  Babbit  Soup. — Disjoint  the  rabbit,  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
brown  in  butter.  Put  this  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  3  quarts  of 
boiling  water.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  parsley  (add  a  minced 
onion  if  liked).  Boil  3  hours.  Thicken  with  browned  flour  and  send 
to  the  table  with  fried  crusts. 

Soup  of  Frogs'  luegs. — Take  2  dpgen  frogs'  legs  and  pour  over 
them  lukewarm  water,  let  them  remain  in  it  about  5  minutes,  but  not 
to  cook,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  water 
sufficient  to  cover,  cook  moderately  about  half  an  hour,  simmer  a 
small  onion  chopped,  in  butter,  add  it  to  the  soup  with  1  quart  of  richr 
milk,  2-tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  des- 
sertspoonful of  chopped  parsley ;  skim  the  legs  from  the  soup,  and 
remove  the  me,at  from  the  bones,  put  the  meat  into  the  tureen  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  thick  cream  and  a  little  celery  chopped  very  fine ; 
pour  in  the  hot  soup  and  serve  at  once. 

Game  Soup,— ^Two  grouse  or  partridges,  or  if  none  of  these  are  at 
hand,  a  pair  of  rabbits;  Half  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  2  small  onions, 
i  pound  of  lean  beef,  2  stalks  of  celery  cut  in  inch  lengths,  3  quarts 
of  water.  Joint  the  game,  cut  the  ham  and  onions  into  small  pieces,  and 
fry  all  except  the  celery  in  butter,  until  a  light  brown.  Put  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  beef,  cut  into  bits,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  on 
the  water,  heat  slowly  and  stew  gently  2  hours.  Take  out  the  game 
and  keep  warm.  Cook  the  soup  an  hour  longer ;  strain,  return  to 
the  stew-pan  and  drop  in  the  celery.  Cook  slowly  10  or  15  minutes 
longer.     Pour  upon  fried  bread  in  the  turedh. 

Venison  Soup. — Make  the  same  as  the  above,  with  the  addition 
of  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold  water, 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup,  Worcestershire,  or  other  sauce, 
and,  if  wines  are  used  in  cookery,  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  Sherry 
wine. 

Squirrel  Soup. — ^Wash  and  quarter  three  or  four  squirrels.  Cover 
with  1  gallon  cold  water  and  1  tablespoonful  salt.  Put  over  the  fire 
right  after  breakfast.  Cover  the  kettle  closely  and  set  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  where  it  will  simmer  slowly  all  the  morning.  Add  any 
kind  of  vegetables  as  in  other  meat  soups,  corn,  Lima  beans,  potatoes. 


SOUPS.  55 

etc.  When  the  meat  has  boiled  to  shreds  strain  the  whole  through 
a  coarse  colander.  Boil  10  minutes  longer^hickening  with  butter 
rubbed  in  flour.  Put  croutons,  or  squares  of  toast  in  the  tureen,  anc^ 
pour  the  soup  over  them.     Good. 

Oyster  Soup. — One  quart  of  oystersj  1  quart  of  milk,  ^  cup  of 
butter,  yi  cup  of  powdered  crackers.  Whfcn  milk  boils  add  butter, 
crackers  and  oyi^ter  liquor  (which  has  been  boiled  and  skimmed), 
then  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  finally  the  oysters.  Cook  three 
minutes  longer  and  serv«.  May  also  season  with  celery  salt,  or  a 
teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  For  persons  preferring  the 
oysters  without  milk  the  same  method  may  be  followed,  omitting 
the  vnilt  and  substituting  water  in  it  place.  The  rolled  crackers 
may  be  omitted  also,  if  wished. 

Oyster  Soup  (Plain). — One  quart  of  oysters  with  their  liquor,  2 
quarts  of  cold  water,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Let  the  whole  boil  together  2  minutes.  Skim  out  the  oysters,  add 
y^  teacupful  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  1  small  cupful  rolled  crack- 
ers. Let  this  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  oysters.  If  there  is  the 
slightest  danger  of  the  milk  curdling,  heat  it  separately,  and  do  not 
add  it  until  the  water  is  boiling  hot. 

Oyster  Cream  Soup  (Ricli). — Six  dozen  oysters,  2  quarts  of 
white  soup-stock,  1  cupful  of  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1\ 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  or  cornstarch,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  celery- 
salt  and  white  pepper  best.  Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor, 
skim  them  out,  add  the  stock  to  the  oyster  liquor,  first  straining  this 
carefully  to  remove  bits  of  shell,  etc.  Simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Add 
the  seasoning  and  1  blade  of  mace  if  the  flavor  is  liked ;  then  the 
thickening  of  butter  and  flour  rubbed  smoothly  together.  Simme^ 
5  minutes.  Have  the  cream  boiling  hot  in  a  separate  vessel,  turn 
into  the  broth  and  pour  at  once  over  the  oysters.  Serve  with  sliced 
lemon  and  oyster  crackers.  (For  stews  and  other  oyster  dishes,  see 
Shell  Fish.) 

Celery  Oyster  Soup. — Cut  3  heads  of  celery  into  small  pieces, 
using  both  foots  and  stalks  ;  add  a  piece  of  onion  as  large  as  a  hick- 
oty-nut  and  a  sprig  of  parsley ;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of 
Tjoiling  water  and  boil  half  an  hour ;  put  1  quart  of  milk  into  a  dbu- 
i)le  boiler ;  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
jnd  add  to  it,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  %  cup  of  warm  milk;  pour  this 


86  SOUPS. 

into  the  hot  milk  and  stir  until  it  is  smooth  and  creamy ;  remove  the 
parsley  and  rub  the  remaining  contents  with  the  water  through  the 
colander,  and  add  this  to  the  milk;  add  a  teaspoonful^  of  salt  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  2  dozen  nicely- 
(vashed  oysters ;  when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  again  remove  fronJ^ 
the  fire  and  serve. 

Oyster  Bouillon. -^Chop  8  large,  fresh  oysters  to  a  fine  mince,  and 
cover  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  their 
own  liquor,  first  straining.  Let  it  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point, 
and  then  keep  it  gently  simmering  for  no  more  than  five  minutes, 
strain  into  a  cup  and  serve  very  hot  with  toast  cut  in  squares.  If 
desired,  after  the  liquor  is  strained,  ^  cup  of  fresh  milk  can  be  added, 
the  whole  returned  to  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Give  a  light  ~ 
sprinkle  of  white  pepper  into  the  cup,  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  This 
is  nice  served  in  fancy  cups  in  place  of  beef  bouillon. 

liittle  Neck  Clam  Soup.; — ^Put  1  quart  of  fresh  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  with  a  small  onion  and  a  few  thin  slices  of  carrot.  Heat  to 
the  boiling  point,  then  remove  the  onion  and  carrot,  add  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  wet  in  a  little  cdld  milk,  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley.  Chop  25  little-neck  clams  very  fine  and  heat  to  a  boiling 
point  in  their  own  liquor.  Skim  carefully.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  the  clams  and  liquor  to  the  soup  and  serve  at  once. 

Clam  Bouillon. — ^This  now  comes  in  cans  ready  for  use,  is  en- 
riched by  an  addition  of  celery-salt  and  a  mere  squeeze  of  onion-juice, 
with  a  trifle  thickened  milk.  Sprinkle  a  few  fresh  parsley  sprigs  on 
the  top  of  each  bouillon  cup,  and  nobody  will  perceive  the  onion 
after  you  have  left  the  table.  It  may  also  be  made  by  simmering 
chopped  clams  in  tfie:jr  own  broth  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water, 
the  broth  strained  through  fine  muslin,  and  seasoned  with  pepper. 
If  for  a,n  invalid,  hot  milk  may  be  added  v^hen  the  broth  is 
strained.'  Serve  with  toasted  crackers.  This  is  highly  recom- 
mended, not  only  for  invalids,  but  as  a  steady  diet  for  those  inclined 
to  grow  stout.  / 

Bisque  of  Clams. — Drain  25  clams,  pouring  1  cupful  of  cold  water 
over  them.  Put  the  liquor  in  a  saucepan  to  boil ;  skim,  and  when  it 
boils  up  add  the:  clams,  first  chopping  very  fine.  Boil  and  skim 
again.     Then  add  jS^  a  small  cupful  of  rolled  crackers  and  a  table- 


SOUPS.  67 

spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  smooth  with  2  of  flour.  Let  boil  slowly 
for  15  minutes.  Press  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  kettle. 
Heat  to  boiling  point,  and  add  to  it  1  pint  of  cream,  previously  heated 
in  a  separate  saucepan.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  white  pepper. 
Serve  iinmediately ;  if  allowed  to  stand  over  the  fire  the  crpam  is 
apt  to  curdle. 

Bisque  of  Clams  with  Proflteroles. — Wash  and  chop  1  quart  of 
clams.  Put  into  a  stewpan  with  J  pint  of  white  stock  (or  water)  1 
slice  onion,  2  blades  celery,  a  tiny  bit  of  mace,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  sprig 
of  parsley.  Cover;  cook  gently  half  an  hour.  In  another  saucepan 
have~^~pint  of  stock  and  a  scant  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs.  Let  this 
cook  very  slowly  20  minutes.  When  the  clams  have  cooked  half  an 
hour,  strain  the  liquor  from  them  into  the  pan  with  the  bread  crumbs. 
Stir  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  3  tablespoons 
butter  and  2  of  flour  rubbed  together,  2  teaspoon^  salt,  ^  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  1  pint  milk  and  1  of  cream  (or  2  pints  rich  milk)  heated 
to  a  boiling  point.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  strain  again  and  serve.  With 
it  pass  the 

Profiteroles. — Into  a  saucepan  put  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  and 
1^  cup  boiling  water.  Put  on  the  firp,  and  when  it  boils  add  f  cup 
flour,  and  beat  well  2  minutes.  Remove  from\  fire,  and  when  cool 
break  into  it  2  eggs.  Beat  for  10  minutes,  add  ^  teaspoonful  salt, 
make  into  balls  size  of  a  pea,  put  tjiem  into  a  slightly  buttered  pan. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  10  minutes. 

liobster  Soup. — Cut  a  lobster,  weighing  about  4  pounds,  in  small 
pieces.  Place  in  a  bowl  6  crackers,  rolled  fine,  1  cup  of  butter,  salt, 
and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper ;  mix  well  together.  Heat  3  pints  of 
milk  and  1  of  water ;  stir  in  the  mixture,  boil  2  or  3  minutes,  add  the 
cut  lobster,  which  should  have  previously  been  boiled  for  5  minutes 
in  the  pint  of  water,  and  let  the  mixture  boil  up  once.  iUse  half  this 
recipe  for  a  small  family.  If  canned  lobster  is  used,  it  will  not  be 
necessary  to  boil  it  separately,  but  drain  it  well  from  the  liquor  in  the 
can.  Serve  with  toasted  crackers.  Some  cooks  add  the  pounded 
coral.  This  helps  to  give  the  pink  color  to  the  soup.  The  soup 
should  be  a  pale  pink  and  the  thickness  of  good  cream. 

Lobster  Bisque. — 1  can  of  lobster  and  2  cups  of  milk,  3  pints  of 
boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  \  cup  of  rolled  crackers ; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Chop  the  lobster  rather  coarse,  drop  it, 


68  SOUPS. 

with  the  salt  and  pepper,  in  the  water,  put  to  boil  and  boil  gently  for 
20  minutes.  Then  add  butter  and  milk,  boil  again,  add  cracker 
srumbs  and  serve.  Veal  or  chicken  broth  may  be  used  insteaid  of 
the  water,  making  a  delicious  bisque. 

Bisque  of^FlounderSi— Soup  may  be  made  of  any  fish,  or  of 
the  water  in  which  fish  has  been  boiled,  with  the  bones,  fins,  heads 
and  trimmings  of  the  dressed  fish.  In  either  case,  add  onion,  leek, 
parsley  and  celery  while  making  the  stock;  thicken  as  you  would 
iany  cream  soup,  strain,  pressing  the  fish  flesh,  if  -any,  through  a 
colander;  add  cream,  butter,  and  if  a  rich  bisque'  is  desired,  2 
beaten  egg  yolks  for  every  quart  of  the  soup.  Oyster  liquor  is  a 
nice  addition,  and  6  blanched  oysters  may  be  added  to  every 
quart. 

Fish  Cream  Soup. — Season  the  water  in  which  fresh  fish  has 
been  boiled-with  pepper  and  salt,  and  keep  until  the  next  day.  Heat 
1  quart  of  the  liquor,  when  wanted,  to  boiling,  mince  a  cupful  of  cold 
fish  and  add  to  this.  Let  simmer,  5  rriinutes  and  stir  in  3  tablespoon-r 
fuls  pf  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Add  to  this  1  cup  of  hot  milk  into  which  1  cup  of  dried  bread 
crumbs  has  been  stirred.  Stir  well,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  serve 
with  crackers. 

Cat-Fish  Soup. — Skin,  clean  and  cut  in  pieces.  To  J  sniall  cat- 
fish allow  1  slice  of  ham,  cut  in  bits.  Cover  these  with  2  quarts  of 
water  season  with  pepper  and  parsley  (the  ham  supplies  the  salt), 
boil  until  the  fish  is  tender,  remove  the  backbones.  Add  to  it  a  quart 
of  boiling  milk  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  cut  in  bits  and  rolled 
in  flour.  Stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  boil  quickly  and'serve 
while  l^ot.  The  ham  may  bejimitted,  and  the  soup  seaspned  with 
salt.  Other  small  fish  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner.  Instead 
of  stirring  in  the  beaten  eggs,  the  yolks  may  be  stirred  stiff  with  all 
the  flour  they  will  take  up,  and  this  mixture  may  be  dropped  in  bits 
into  the  soup. 

Oreen  Turtle  Soup. — This  soup  should  be  cooked  the  day  be- 
fore it  is  wanted,  so  that  every  particle  of  fat  may  be  removed.  Chop 
up  the  coarse  part  of  the  turtle  meat  with  all  the  bones,  and  put  it  on  to 
boil  with  all  kinds  of  soup  vegetables,  onions,  pepper  and  salt.  Skim 
it  well  and  allow  it  to  boil  gently  for  4  hours.  It  is  well  to  add  to 
this  stock  a  veal  bone.    When  all  is  boiled  to  a  pulp,  strain  it  and  let 


SOUPS.  59 

It  stand  over  night.  The  next  day  take  off  the  top  every  vestige  of 
iit  and  put  it  on  to  boil.  Cut  up  in  small  pieces  the  finer  turtle  meat 
And  the  green  fat,  pour  it  into  the  turtle  stock  and  simmer  gently  for 
2  hours.  It  is  well  to  boil  up  the  green  fat  in  some  water  before 
putting  it  in  the  soup,  so  as  to  boil  off  all  impurities.  The  turtle 
eggs  must  be  boiled  alone  for  4  hours,  placed  in  the  soup  tureen,  and 
the  hot  soup  poured  over  them.  Before  serving,  take  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  good  butter,  melt  it  and  brown  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
in  it,  add  it  gently  to  the  soup,  as  well  as  any  sauces  the  larder  may 
contain.  There  are  so  many  different  ways  of  flavoring  green 
turtle  soup;  some  cooks  add  sweetbreads,  others  calves'  brains; 
some,  force-meat  balls;  but  all  agree  that  it  requires  mushroom 
catsup  and  Madeira  wine.  The  wine  must  be  poured  in  just  before 
serving,  because  it  loses  all  flavor  if  boiled.  It  is  a  heavy,  rich 
soup,  and  difficult  to  digest,  and  most  epicures  insist  upon  a  glass 
of  cordial,  or  some  tart  wine,  being  served  with  it.  If  wines  are 
never  used,  substitute  lemon  juice  instead  of  Madeira  wine  in  flavor- 
ing the  soup. 

Green  Turtle  Soup  a  la  Creole. — Here  is  the  ancient  Creole 
recipe  for  turtle  soup,  and  it  is  safe  to  say  that  when  once  eaten  after 
this  delightful  way  no  other  will  seem  quite  as  savory.  Cut  the  tur- 
tle in  small  pieces.  Let  it  brown  in  a  pot  with  a  little  lard.  Cut  up 
several  onions,  a  slice  of  ham  and  a  little  garlic,  and  stir  and  mix 
well  with  the  turtle.  Then  let  the  mixture  brown  well.  Put  in  some 
flour  and  mix.  Pour  a  quantity  of  soup  stbck  into  the  pot:^  Let  it 
boil  and  add  a  knee-joint  of  veal.  Let  this  simmer  for  a  full  hour. 
Then  put  in  some  thyme,  laurel  leaf,  parsley,  shallots,  and  when 
everything  is  cooked  add  a  thin  slice  of  lemon  chopped,  boiled  eggs 
and  a  little  more  parsley.  Just  before  dishing  add  a  wine  glass  full 
of  Madeira  or  |  that  amount  of  lemon  juice,  and  you  will  have  a 
soup  fit  for  a  king's  table. 

Vegetable  Soups— Meatless. 

There  are  many  times  during  the  summer  season,  and  also  through , 
Lent,  when  meatless  soups  are  a  desirable  addition  to  the  bill  of  fare. 
The  following  recipes  will  be  a  great  help  to  the  housekeeper  in  vary- 
ing the  daily  diet. 

Tomato  Bisque. — ^Tomato  bisque  is  a  delicate  and  appetizing 


60  SOUPS. 

summer  soup.  Stew  and  strain  1  quart  of  tomatoes,  add  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Boil  1  quart  of  milki  Smooth 
together  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  1  of  butter.  Add  this  to  the 
boiling  milk,  but  do  not  put  in  the  tomatoes  until  the  dinner  hour. 
Have  the  tureen  hot.  Turn  in  the  boiling  milk,  add  a  small  pinch 
of  soda  toNihe  tomatoes.  Pour  them  in,  mix  and  serve  at  once. 
If  canned  tomatoes  are  to  be  used,  take  a  quart  can,  open  it  and 
pour  out  in  a  bowl  an  hour  before  using.  They  should  be  cooked  in 
granite  or  porcelain. ;  (Tin  or  iron  should  never  be  used  for  acid, 
fruits  or  vegetables.)  Serve  with  baked  crackers  prepared  as  fol- 
lows: Butter  and  sprinkle  with  cayenne  pepper;  bake  until  light 
brown. 

Tomato  Soup. — One  quart  of  fresh  toniatoes,  or  1  can,  1  onion; 
4^ouhces  of  butter,  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  spoons  of  salt,  ^  of  a  spoon 
of  cayenne  pepper ,'J  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  3  pints  water ;  boil  tomatoes 
and  onions  f  of  an  hour,  add  salt,  pepper  and  3  pints  of  hot  water, 
the  butter  and  flour  rubbed  smoothly  with  a  little  of  the  soup,  to  aid 
in  mixing,  and  a  little  more  to  make  it  like  thin  cream.  Boil  10 
minutes,  and  when  ready  to  serve  pour  in  the  milk,  which  must  be 
boiling,  to  prevent  it  curdling  the  soup.  This  is  a  substantial  dinner 
for  children.     It  may  be  made  thinner  if  required. 

Tomato  Bice  Soup. — Fry  a  sliced  onion  brown  in  butter  or  good 
dripping  "in  the  bottom  of  the  soup  pot;  pour  in  the  chopped  con- 
',tents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  2  cups  of  boiling  water ;  stew  till 
tender,  rub  through  a  colander,  and  return  to  the  fire ;  add  J  cup  of 
boiled  rice;  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  rubbed  smooth  with 
1  tablespoon  of  flour ;  boil  up  and  serve. 

Tomato  Bean  Soup. — Three  cups  of  baked  beans,  6  cups  of 
cold  water,  J  te^spobnful  of  celery  salt  and  3  slices  of  onions  ;  sim- 
mer together  30  minutes ;  strain  and  add  1^  cups  or  more  of  stewed 
tomato  straii^ed ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  rub  together  tablespoon 
each  of  ilour  and  butter ;  cook  from  3  to  5  minutes ;  with  this  thick- 
ening.    Serve  with  croutons,  or  squares  jof  toasted  bread. 

liiebig  Tomato  Soup. — For  5  dishes,  take  1  pint  of  cooked  toma- 
toes, add  1  quart  of  water,  boil  and  strain.  Season  with  |  teaspoon- 
ful  Liebig's  extract  beef  dissolved  in  hot  water,  a  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  butter,  salt,  sugar  if  liked,  and  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls'  corn-starch 
mixed  smoothly  with  milk.     Boil  a  few  moments. 


SOUPS.  61 

-x^omato  Meat  Soup. — Three  pounds  of  beef,  1  quart  of  canned 
tomatcfes,  1  gallon  water.     Let  the  meat  and  water  boil  for  2  hoursi 
or  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  a  little  more  than  2  quarts.    Then 
stir  in  the  tomatoes,  and  stew  all  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour/ 
longer.     Season  to  taste,  strain  and  serve. 

Asparagxis  Soup. — Boil  1  quart  of  asparagus  cut  in  inch  lengths 
in  1  quart  of  water  until  tender,  heat  1  pint  of  milk  and  pour  into- 
the  asparagus  ;  season  with  butter  and  salt,  pour  into  a  tureen  boiling 
hot  and  serve  at  once  in  large  saucers ;  to  be  eaten  with  butter  toast 
for  supper  when  you  want  something  good. 

Asparagus  Soup. — II.  Take  2  bunches  (usual  size)  of  good  aspa- 
ragus and  cut  oflf  the  tips.  Cook  the  stalks  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
they  are  perfectly  tender,  then  drain  and  rub  through  a  colander.  Then 
take  the  water  that  the  asparagus  "stalks  have  been  boiled  in  and  add 
to  it  1  quart  of  fresh  milk  and  set  over  the  fire.  When  it  has  come 
to  the  boiling  point,  have  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  sifted  flour  well  rubbed  together,  and  stir  them  into^the  milk  until 
quite  smooth.  Then  add  the  asparagus  pulp  and  boil  about  15  min- 
utes, stirring  frequently.  Meanwhile,  boil  the  tips  separately  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  until  they  are  tender,  drain  them,  put  them  in  the 
soiip  tureen,  and  after  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  your  liking  to  the 
milk  soup,  pour  it  over  the  tips  and  serve. 

Asparagus  Consomme. — ^Add  to  1  quart  of  soup  stock  the  juice 
from  a  can  of  white  asparagus ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  strain 
through  a  cloth  and  serve  hot.  The  asparagus  from  the  can  may  be 
used  for  a  salad  served  on  individual-  plates  with  wafers  and  olives. 
Toast  wafers  in  hot  oven. 

Puree  of  Celery. — Wash  and  scrape  a  head  of  celeiy  and  cut  it 
into  half-inch  pieces.  Put  it  into  a  pint  of  water  and  cook  till  very 
soft.  Mash  in  the  water  in  which  it  is.  boiled.  Chop  fine  a  table- 
spoonful  of  onion  and  cook  it  in  a  pint  of  milk  for  10  minutes;  then 
add  the  milk  to  the  celery.  Pass  all  through  a  fine  strainer  and 
return  to  the  fi:re.  Cook  together  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of 
flour  until  smooth,  but  not  brown.  Stir  it  into  the  boiling  soup,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  strain  into  the  tureen  and  serve. 

Rice  Celery  Soup.— Boil  a  scant  cup  of  rice  in  3  pints  of  milk 
'-s.til  it  wiU  tjass  through  a  sieve.  Grate  the  white  part  of  2  or  3 
aeaas  or  ceiery,  add  this  to  the  rice  milk  after  it  has  been  strained; 


62  SOUPS. 

to  this  may  be  added  a  quart  of  strong  white  stock  if  one  wishes,  or 
a  pint  of  water  may  be  used,  and  after  the  celery  is  tender  a  pint  of 
cream  added.     Season  to  taste. 

Economical  Celery  Soup. — There  is  an  economical  way  of  treat- 
ing the  large  bunch  of  best-celery  which  makes  it  cheap.  Use  Jthe 
finer  portions  of  the  crisp  stalks  as  a  relish.  All  the  tough  portions 
and  the  root  carefully  cleaned  are  to  be  cut -fine,  covered  with  cold 
water  and  cooked  slowly  till  nearly  the  whole  can  be  rubbed 
through  a  strainer.  Half  an  hour  before  dinner  heat  this  liquid 
celery  with  an  equal  quantity  of  any  kind  of  rneat-broth  you  happen 
to  have  in  the  house,  and  then  add  1  pint  of  hot  milk  thickened 
like  a  white  sauce  with  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Season  with  salt.  If  you  have  no  broth,  after 
the  soup'  is  in  the  tureen  stir  into  it  slowly  and  smoothly  the  well- 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  you  will  not  miss  at  all  the  richness  of 
the  meat. 

Potage  a.  la  Cr^cy. — This  is  a  very  nice /a?'^^  soup.  Take  4 
large  red  carrots,  2  potatoes,  2  onions,  and  2  stalks  of  celery ;  cut 
them  all  up  and  fry  brown  in  butter  o'r  beef  drippings.  Then  put  all 
into  1  quart  of  hot  water  and  boil  until  the  vegetables  are  soft,  after 
which  press  them  through  a  sieve,  or  colander.  Return  to  the  fire,  add 
2  cloves,  a  teaspooufiii  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  tablespoon^ 
ful  of  butter  and  a  few  parsley  leaves.  Heat  1  pint  of  milk,  thicken 
it  with  1  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  or  flour,  add  to  the  soup,  and  serve 
croutons,  or  squares  of  toast.     (Po^age  is  the  French  term  for  soup.) 

(Bean  Soup;  meatless,  will  be  found  among  the  other  Bean  Soups.) 

Cabbage  Soup  (Meatless). — Take  a  good-sized  cabbage  (a  savoy 
is  the  best),  3  onions,  2  good-sized  carrots,  3  turnips,  a  small  bunch 
of  parsley  and  2  leeks ;  clean  and  wash  them  well ;  when  washed, 
pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  them  remain  for  10  minutes, 
then  strain  aftd  cut  the  vegetables  small ;  have  ready  a  saucepan,  put 
in  it  2  tablespoonfuls  of  beef  dripping  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt, 
When  the  fat  is  melted  put  in  the  vegetables,  stir  them  well  until  they 
begin  to  frizzle ;  then  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  a  breakfast  cupful 
of  rice  or  barfey,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  the  soup  simmer  slowly  until 
the  vegetables  are  quite  soft,  then  add  a  pint  -of  boiling  water  and  let 
it  simmer  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  4  potatoes  can  be  added  to 
the  other  vegetables  if  liked.    This  soup  will  bfe  found  excellent  and 


SOUPS.  63 

inexpensive,  almost  a  dinner  in  itself.  Without  the  rice,  using  butter 
'instead  of  dripping,  and  adding  a  few  potatoes,  it  will  make  anothel 
delicious  soup. 

Cream  Vegetable  Soup. — Use  only  small  and  tender  vegetables 
— i  carrots,  2  parsnips,  2  green  onions,  a  pint  of  green  peas,  a  handful 
of  green  beans,  2  potatoes  and  1  head  of  Cauliflower.  Shell  the  peas, 
cut  the  rest  in  strips,  boil  in  a  little  water  till  soft.  IJeat  3  pints  of 
milk,  put  in  the  vegetables  with  their  water,  salt,  thicken  with  flour. 
When  ready  to  serve  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

"Vegetable  Cbowder.^^Fry  4  large  slices  of  salt  pork  cut  in  dice. 
When  the  fat  is  extracted,  fry  in  it  4  small  onions  till  of  a  golden- 
brown.  Mix  this  in  layers  with  2  quarts  of  potatoes  peeled  and  sliced, 
sprinkling  each  layer  with  some  pepper  and  salt,  using  one-half  cup- 
ful of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  pepper  and  the  same  of  salt.  Cover  with 
water  and  sinimer  slowly  .till  potatoes  are  done,  or  about  30  minutes 
usually.  Split  6  common  crackers,  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  3 
minutes.  Lay  in  the  chowder.  Pour  in  1  pint  of  milk.  Cover  and 
boil  up  once.  Arrange  the  crackers  around  the  edge  of  a  large 
platter,  and  dish  the  chowder  in  the  centre. 

Onion,  or  Mock  Oyster  Soup. — Boil  one-half  dozen  onions  in 
water  enough  to  cover  them.  If  strong  boil  a  turnip  with  them — the 
turnip  will  absorb  the  strong^  taste.  When  they  are  boiled  enough 
mash  them  through  a  colander.  Then  boil  them  again  in  a  quart  of 
sweet  milk.  Mix  1  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  stir  in  the  soup.  Let  it  boil  once  thoroughly,  and  season  with 
pepper7  salt  and  mace.     Serve  at  once. 

Cream  of  Onion  Soup. — Peel  and  cut  into  thin  slices  a  dozen 
small  white  dnions,  and  fry  tbem  to  a  light  brown  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Add  to  the  onions  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  the  same  quantity  of  white  pepper,  j4 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Cook  }4  hour  very 
slowly  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  a  cupful  of  cream.     Serve  immediately. 

Potato  Onion  Soup. — Slice  2  or  3  good-sized  onions  and  fry 
them  in  a  little  butter  until  they  are  soft,  then  add  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  and  stir  until  it  il  a  little  cooked,^but  not  brown.  To  this 
gradually  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  or  stock  if  you  have  it,  stirring 
all  the  time  so  it  shall  be  smooth.     Boil  and  mash  3  good-sized  pota- 


64  SOUPS. 

toes  and  stir  in  them  1  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  the  two  mixtures 
together  and  season  well.  When  very  hot  pour  through  a  colander 
into  a  tureen.  Sprinkle  over  the  top  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley, 
chopped  fine,  and  a  little  fried  bread. 

Potato  Cream  Soup.^ — One  quart  ©f  water,  1  pint  of'  raw  sliced 
potatoes,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  cover  and 
cook  until  the  potatoes  are  soft;  add  a  well-beaten  egg  and  }4  pint 
of  creamy  milk,  let  it  boil  again  and  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
mixed  smoothly  with  a  little  creamy  milk.     Serve  hot  with  craqkers. ' 

Potato  Soup. — Mash  potatoes  and  season  as  for  table,  beating 
with  a  large  fork  until  /'creamy."  Use  rich  milkj  to  which  add 
cream  or  a  little  butter,  and  heat  two  quarts.  Stir  the  mashed  pota^ 
toes  in  slowly,  and  when  again  cooked  up,  servfe  in  hot  dishes  with 
celery  and  hot  buttered  toast.  As  a  substitute  for  oyster  stew,  when 
oysters  are  out  of  season  (or  out  of  "  reach  "),  I  know  of  nothing 
equal  to  this  nourishing,  yet  delicate  dish — some  people  preferring  it 
to  its  ihore  expensive  prototype. 

'  Green  Pea  Soup. — Green  peas  make  a,  delicious  soup.  Boil  1 
quart  of  peas  in  a  quart  of  water  for  20  minutes,  mash,  add  a  quart  of 
milk,  a  tablespoonfiil  of  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  cooked  in 
theAutter  and  stirred  in  the  boiling  soup,  and  salt  and-  pepper  to 
taste.  Let  it  just  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  serve  immediately. 
Any  sweet  herbs  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  pepper. 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup. — Cook  one-quarter  peck  of  peas  about  2 
hours,  reserve  one-half  cupful  and  press.the  remainder  through  a  sieve 
into  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  season^  Mix  table- 
spoonful of  butter  and  the  same  of  flour,  smooth  it  with  a  cup  of  hot 
milk  and  add  it  to  the  soup ;  also  add  the  half  cup  of  peas  and  serve. 
Use  more  milk  if  preferredK_ 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup. — Remove  the  corn  from  1  can,  cover  with 
3  cups  of  water  ^nd  ?immer  for  1  hour.  Strain,  press  through  a  sieve. 
Scald  3  cups  of  milk,  add  the  corn  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
rubbed  sifiooth  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Mix  until  smooth ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  celery  extract.  Add  J 
cup  of  cream  and  stir  until  heated.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  serve  at  once.  The  egg  or  cream  may  be 
.  omitted,  but  the  soup  is  far  more  delicious  with  the  addition  of  both. 
The  corn  from  1 2  ears  equals  1  can.  ^ 


SOUPS.  65 

Canned  Corn  Soup. — Cook  1  pint  of  sliced  potatoes  until  soft, 
and  rub  them  through  a  colander.  Stew  1  pint  of  canned  gfeen  corn 
in  milk,  rub  through  a  colander  and  mix  with  the  potatoes ;  then  add 
boiling  milk  to  make  the  required  consistency ;  season  with  salt  and- 
white  pepper  and  serve.    . 

Cream  of  Turnip  Soup. — Take  6  new  turnips  cut  in  blocks; 
stew  gently  for  half  an  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover.  Remove  the 
turnips  and  press  through  a  colander;  return  to  the  soup,  which 
should  be  about  1  quart  in  quantity.  Rub  together  -1  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  2  of  flour ;  stir  into  the  soup.  When  it  is  boiling,  add 
1  cupful  of  hot  milk  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat 
up  an  egg  in  the  tureen  and  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 
Pour  it  over  the  egg,  stirring  as  it  is  poured,  and  serve. 

Okra  Soup.-— Cut  the  okra  in  very  thin  slices,  and  throw  into  1  J 
quarts  of  boiling  salted  water ;  when  tender  add  1  quart  of  milk,  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  white 
pepper  to  taste.     This  soup  must  be  made  in  a  porcelain  kettle. 

Bice  Soup  a  la  Creme. — Bbil  a  sliced  onion  and  a  bunch  of 
celery  tops  in  2  quarts  of  water  for  1  hour.  Strain  and  add  J  cup  of 
rice  that  has  been  carefully  washed  and  looked  over.  Cook  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  stiri'ing  often,  or  until  the  rice  is  well  swollen 
anS  tender.  Just  before  serving,  beat  up  in  the  tureen  itself  1  egg 
with  J  tumblerful  of  rich  milk — cream  is  better — and  a  pinch  of  nut- 
meg, if  liked.  Pour  the  boiling  soup  over  this  mixture  from  a 
height,  beating  it  still  with  a  whisk  to  mix  all  thoroughly,  and  sferve 
with  toast  squares. 

I/iebig's  Rice  Soup.— Cook  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  rice  in  1 
quart  of  water,  with  a  small  onion  peeled  and  chopped  and  1  bay 
leaf.  Cook  slowly  30  minutes.  Take  out  the  bay  leaf,  and  add  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  beef  extract.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  white 
pepper.  . 

Almond  Soup  wit^i  Rice.-—!  cup  of  rice,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
5  pints  of  milk,  |  teaspooriful  of  s*lt,  J  pound  almonds.  Wash  the 
rice,  put  in  a  farina  boiler  with  1  quart  of  milk.  Cook  slowly  till 
every  grain  is  tender.  While  the  tks  is  cooking  shell  and  blanch 
the  almonds,  chjop  very  fine  and  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  adding, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  J  cup  of  milk,  fbfiaing  a  smooth  paste.  Place 
She  paste  with  the  sugar  and  remaining  quantity  of  milk  in  a.  double 

COOK- 5 


66  SOUPS. 

boiler  and  simmer  for  30  minutes.  When  the  rice  is  done,  turn  it 
carefully  into  the  soup  tureen,  pour  over  it  the  almonds  and  milk, 
season  with  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  serve. 

Cauliflower  Soup. — Cut;  a  medium-sized  cauliflower  into  smalt- 
clusters,  chop  all  except  2- bunches,  and  put  all  on  the  fire  in  4  cups 
.of  boiling  water,  with  a  minced  onion  and  a  couple  of  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley ;  cook  till  tender.  Remove  the  unchopped  bunches  and  lay  them 
aside  whil?  you  rub  the  chopped  and  boiled  portion  through  a  colan- 
der;  return  what  comes  through  the  sieve  to  the  stove.  Have  ready 
in  a  double  boiler  1  pint  of  scalding  milk ;  thicken  this  with  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  rubbed  smooth  with  an  equal  quantity  of  flour,  and 
mix  with  the  strained  cauliflower.  Seasoh  to  taste,  drop  in  the 
reserved  clusters  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  serve  the  soup  immediately. 

Chestnut  Soup. — In  a  list  of  winter  soups,  that  made  from  chest- 
nuts stands  as  a  novelty.  Peel  about  60  chestnuts  and  blanch;  until 
the  inner  skin  c-aft  be  removed,  then  cook  them  gently  in  well-flavored 
stock  until  tender  enough  to  rub  through  a  sieve.  Dilute  with  the 
liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked  and  serve  very  hot,  with  croutons, 
or  squares  of  tOast. 

Palestine  Soup. — The  Palestine  Soup  is  made  of  Jerusalem  arti^ 
chokes.  Scrape  a  pound  of  the  artichokes  clean,  and  cut  into  slices. 
Fry  2  onions  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  when  brown  add  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour  and  a  quart  of  water.  Add  the  artichokes,  a 
sprig  of  parsley'  and  a  little  celery.  Boil  until  the  vegetables  are  soft, 
and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  salt  and  white 
pepper  to  taste,  and  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  or  milk.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  just  before  serving.  It  is  best  to  place 
the  beaten  yolks  in  the  soup  tureen  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  on 
them.  Serve  with  fried  croutons  of  bread.  This  ■lyill  be  found  deli- 
cious.    Carrots  may  be  substituted  for  the  artichbkes. 

-  Cream  of  Spinacli  Soup. — fick  over  and  wash  1  pound  of  spinach, 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water  and  cook  until  thoroughly 
done.  When  tender  press  through  a  fine  sieve.  Mix  1  ounce  of 
butter  and  1  ounce  of  flour  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  spinach  cream, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  add  one  quart  of  well-flavored  soup  stock. 
Let  the  soup  come  nearly  to  a  boil,  then  remove  from  tjje  fire  and  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beatenCup  with  a  little  lemon  juice ;  sea-^ 
son  with  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  with  croutons. 


SOUPS.  67 

Cream  of  Barley  Soup. — Boil  half  a  cup  of  barley  in  plenty  of 
salted  water;  mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir 
in  2  quarts  of  boiling  milk.  Skim  the  barley  into  this ;  add  butter 
and  salt. 

Cheese  Soup. — Take  bread  cut  into  disc  shape ;  fry  nicely  brown 
in  butter;  put  intp  soup  tureen.  Now  take  a  little  more  butter,  a 
tablespoon  of  flour  and  fry  brown,  then  thin  tt  with  water  or  soup 
broth  ;  take  qne-fourth  pound  Sweitzel-  or  Goshen  cheese,  cut  into 
very  thin  shreds,  mb^  into  soup ;  let  boil  until  cheese  is  tender;  saft 
to  taste.  Beat  an  egg  and  stir  it  in  soup.  When  serving,  pour 
over  fried  bread. 

Pistachio  Soup. — The  pistachio  soup  is  a  cream  soup  flavored 
with  pistachio  nuts  and  colored  with  spinach.'  To  make  the  soup, 
first  put  one  pint  of  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler,  and  add  to 
it  one  ounce  of  chopped  pistachio  nuts  made  almost  as  fine  as  a 
powder  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  almond  paste.  Mix  well  and 
boil  twenty  minutes.  Pick  over  one  pint  of  spinach  that  is  as  fresh 
and  green  as  you  can  get  it.  Pick  oiit  the'  stems  and  ribs  of  the 
leaves,  and  boil  that  which_is  left  in  enough  boiling  salted  water  to 
cover  it.  When  tender  drain  and  .chop  very  fine ;  then  press  to  a 
pulp  with  a  potato  masher.  Add  the  spinach  to  the  soup,  mix  thor- 
oughly, then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Moistefa  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  arrow  root  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  a  little  of  the  hot  liquid 
toit,  and  then  stir  into  the  soup  and  cook  it  until  it  is  as  thick  as  a 
-thin  cream.  Just  before  serving  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper.  Very  nice  to  serve  at  a  green 
luncheon. 

Bouille.--The,  French  make  a  most  acceptable  soup  for  summer 
weathej  of  thickened  milk,  which  they  call  bouille.  Put  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  finest  wheat  flour,  a  dessertspoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  in  a  saucepan,  and  mix  it  to  a  smooth  paste  with 
a  little  inilk.  When  this  is  thoroughly  smooth  enough  extra  milk  is 
added  to  make  in  all  a  quart.  A  New  England  housekeeper  would 
cook  this  soup  in  a  double  boiler,  but  the  French  housekeeper  simply 
boils  it  over  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  time. 
Nothing  could  be  simpler  than  this  served  with  little  sippets  of  well- 
browned  toast  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  The  hot  millj  is  stimulating 
and  yet  delicate,  and  gives  just  the  soup  one  requires  for  a  warm  day. 


Oysters  are  not  good  unless 
they  close  firmly  on  the  knife  when 
beihg  opened.  If  they  can  be  opened 
easily  or  hold  themselves  open  in  the  least,  they  are 
not  fit  to  uSe.  Oysters  should  be  carefully  chosen; 
large,  extra  and  firm-fleshed  bivalves  arenas  necessary 
for  stews  as  for  fries  or  roasts.,  They  should  never  be  plunged  in  hot 
water  to  increase  their  size,  as  this  can  only  be  done  at  a  great  loss 
in  flavor. 

.  Oysters  in  the  shell  may  be  kept  a  fortnight  at  the  very  least  by 
spreading  them  upon  the  cellar  floor  with  the  rounding  part  of  the 
shell  down,  and  sprinkling  them  well  with  salt  and  Indian  meal. 
Cover  them  with  two  or  three  folds  of  a  blanket  or  old  carpeting,  and 
keep  this  well  saturated  with  cold  water.  Repeat  the  sprinkling  with 
irieal  and  salt  every  day,  and  see  that  the  covering  is  thoroughly  wet. 
Oysters'kept  in  this  manner  will  be  found  in  a  most  satisfactory  con- 
dition. '  * 

In  cases  where  butter  is  given  to  be  used  with  oysters,  many  pre- 
fer olive  oil.  Use,  but  half  the  quantity  that  you  would  of  butter? 
Use  the  very  largest  oysters  for  frying  and  broiling,  the  medium  for 
raw  and  soup,  and  the  smallest  for  scallops,  croquettes,  and, pies. 
JEvery  oyster  should  be  looked  at  that  no  bits  of  shell  remain  attached 
to  it.  This  is  a  very  important  matter,  and  should  npt  be  neglected. 
All  fried  articles  may  be  reheated  on  paper  in  a  very  hot  oven,  and 
they  will  taste  as  though  just  fried.  Soft  bread  crumbs  are  made 
from  bread  which  is  several  days  old,  buf  has  not  been  dried  in  the 
oven. 

Oysters. 

Raw  Oysters. — ^A  nice  way  to  serve  raw  oyste^rs  is  to  take  a  block 
of  clear  ice,  20  to  25  pounds,  melt  a  hollow  in  the  top  by  heating  a 
brick  or  a  flat-iron  and  placing  on  the  ice,  melting  a  hollow  deep 
enough  to  hold  the  oysters.  Place  the  ice  on  a  platter  covered"  with 
a  napkin  to  prevent  slipping  and  to  absorb  the  water.  Arrange  smilax 
68  "  • 


SHELL  FISH.  69 

or  ferns  or  parsley  around  the  edge  of  the  platter.  To  make  it  more 
attractive,  make  some  holes  in  the  sides,  in  irregular  spots  with  a  hot 
poker,  and  put  in  ferns,  etc.  Drain  the  oysters  after  carefully  picking' 
them  over,  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  A  garnish  of  slices  of 
lemon  is  an  addition  and  should  be  served  with  them,  as  some  prefer 
lemon  to  vinegar.  This  is  especially  nice  for  a  center  piece  at  an  en- 
tertainment. In  large  cities  ice  moulds  of  different  varieties  are  frozen^ 
to  order  and  furnished  by  caterers. 

'  Raw  Oysters. — II.  If  to  be  served  at  a  table  they  should  be 
brought  on  in  a  deep  dish,  accompanied  by  a  dish  of  lemons,  cut  in 
quarters.  Serve  in  small  plates,  half  a  dozen  oysters  to  each  person, 
with  a  piece  of  lemon  in  the  center.  Salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  should' 
be  provided.     Lemon  juice  is  sometimes  served  in  place  of  vinegar. 

Oysters  on~the  Half  Shell. — The  oysters  must  be  small  and  as 
fresh  as  can  be  procured.  Fill  a  soup  plate  full  of  fine  cracked  ice  ; 
lay  over  this  a  small  fringed  doily.  Clean  the  shells  of  the  oysters, 
open  them  carefully,  taking  pains  not  to  lose  their  juice,  set  the  half 
shell  firmly  into  the  doily-covered  ice,  cut  a  lemon  in  four,  lay  one- 
quarter  in. the  middle  of  the  circle  of  oysters.  In  this  way  the  oysters 
are  chilled,  the  under  folded  part  of  the  napkin  will  absorb  the  water, 
thus  preventing  the  danger  of  soiling  the  table  linen.  '  ' 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. — II.  Allow  six  oysters  to  each  per« 
son.  Wash  the  shells  v/ell ;  open  them  parefully ;  take  off  the  upper 
shell,  detach  the  oyster  from  the  under  shell,  but  leave  it  there.  Put 
six  on  an  oyster,  or  round  plate,  and  serve  with  a  piece  of  lemon  in 
the  centre  of  the  dish.  With  the  oysters  serve  horse-radish,  black 
and  red  pepper  and  thin  slices  of  buttered  graham  bread. 

Sauce  for  Raw  Oysters, — Take  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  finely 
chopped  shallot,  1  teaspoonful  of  chives,  1  saltspoonful  of  salt,  1  of 
white  pepper,  crushed,  5  tablespoonfuls'  of  best  tarragon  vinegar,  1 
teaspoonfulof  lime  juice;  mix  thoroughly  and  let  stand  for  1  hour  be- 
fore serving.  This  sauce  was  the  invention  of  a  New  York  epicure,  to 
add  a  flavor  to  the  somewhat  insipid  taste  of  raw  oysters.  The  amount 
given  above  is  sufficient  for  eight  persons,  and  is  to  spread  over  them 
as  soon  as  served. 

Oyster  Stew. — Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters  and  put 
it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  when  at  boiling  point  skim  carefully. 
Place  a  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  ^t  jaegins  to  boil 


70  SHELL  FISH. 

add  the  oyster  liquor,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  3  tablespootifuls  of 
rolled  crackers,  and  the  oysters.  Salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 
Let.them  boil  up  once  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

Plain  Oyster  Stew. — Same  as  milk  or  cream  stew,  using  only 
oyster  liquor  instead  of  milk  or  cream,  adding  more  butter  after  .tak- 
ing up. 

Dry  Oyster  Stew. — Take  6  to  12  large  oysters  and  cook  them 
in  1  half  pint  of  their  own  liquor  for  5  minutes,  seasoning  with  butter 
and  white  pepper  and  stirring  constantly.  -  Serve  in  hot  oyster  scallops 
or  bowls. 

Oysters  Stewed  with  Celery. — Put  1  pint  of  strong  clear  beef 
soup-stock  in  a  large  stew-pan.  Instead  of  milk  use  sweet  cream. 
Of  this  cream  add  1  pint  to  the  broth  in  the  stew-pan,  also  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  best  table  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,,  one  of  white 
pepper,  1  of  ground  mace,  and  1  of  celery  extract.  If  celery,  can  be 
had  in  the  stalk,  chop  up  fine  and  use  instead.  No  more  delicate  or 
healthful  flavor  -can  be  added  to  any  soup,  stew  or  broth  than  this. 
While  this  is  cooking  dredge  in  finely  powdered  cracker  dust  and  a 
little  of  the  best  corn-starch  flour,  until  thickened  to  your  taste.  JSave 
ready  in  a  hot  tureen  50  of  the  best-oysters,  parboiled  in  their  own 
juice.  Pour  over  these  the  sauce  compounded  as  above  and  serve 
immediately.  , 

Oyster  Egg  Stew. — Put  a  pint  of  oysters  over  the  fire,  with  a 
little  of  their  own  liquor,  a  pinch  of  salt,  same  of  pepper  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter;  as  soon  as  the  beards  begin  to  open  and  the  juice 
boils,  take  them  out,  add  half  a  pint  of  sauce,  made  with  a  spoonful 
each  of  flour  and  a  cup  of  milk,  veal  stock  or  half  milk  and  half  oys- 
ter liquor,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  in  bits ;  stir  all  for  2  minutes, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Many  prefer  oysters  welJ  done,  in  which  case  cook  5  minutes. 

Creamed  Oysters. — To  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted 
in  a  saucepan,  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Cook  a  few 
moments,  and  stir  in  gradually  one  cup  of  hot  milk.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  1  feaspoonful  of  celery  salt.  _  Wash  and  pick  over 
carefully  1  pint  of  fine  oysters,  boil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until 
plump,  drain,  and  pour  over  thern  the  sauce. 

Oyster  Bisque. — Oyster  bisque  is  delicious. .  One  pint  of  chicken 
or  veal  stock  (the  liquor  in  which  chickens  have  been  boiled  is  excel- 


SHELL  FISH.  71 

lent  for  this  purpose),  1  pint  of  oysters,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  salt, 
p^per,  chopped  parsley,  1  heaping  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  1  great 
spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  in  1  of  flour.  Strain  the  stock  and  set  over 
the  fire  with  the  crumbs  in  a  farina  kettle.  In  another  vessel  heat  tlie 
oyster  liquor,  and  -when  it  simmers  add  the  oysters  chopped  fine ; 
cook  all  20  minutes.  In  a  third  vessel  scald  the  milk,  stir  into  this 
the  floured  butter,  boil  up  sharply  and  pour  upon  the  beaten  eggs. 
Set  in  hot  water  while  you  turn  the  oysters  and  liquor  into  the  kettle 
containing  the. stock  and  crumbs,  and  cook  together  before  putting  in 
the  parsley  and  other  seasoning.  Finally  pour  in  milk  and  eggs,  after 
which"  the  soup  must  not  boil,  but  stand  in  hot  water  3  minutes. 
Serve  promptly  in  a  hot  tureen,  with  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 

Oyster  Chowder. — For  those  wh&  like  onions :  Peel, and  cut  in 
small  pieces  2  medium-sized  onions ;  fry  in  plenty  of  butter  to  a  light 
brown;  pare  and  slice  about  4  potatoes  and  boil  in  just  enough  water 
to  cover  till  almost  done,  then  add  the  onions  and  about  a  pint  of 
milk;  let  come  to  a  boil;  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  pepper  and  salt 
and  butter  to  taste,  then  add  a  pint  of  oysters  and  boil  up  onfae  more. 

Oyster  Chowder. — II.  Three  slices  of  pickled  pork,  2  onions,  3 
potatoes,  2  dozen  crackers,  5  dozen  oysters,  1  quart  of  milk  and,  sea- 
soning. Boil  the  pork,  onions  and  potatoes  together  until  nearly 
done.  Put  into  the  pot  the  oysters,  milk,  crackers  and  seasoning. 
Boil  a  few  minutes. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — :To  scallop  oysters  1  quart  of  solid  dysters 
is  required  for  a  dish  that  will  hold  two  quarts.  Butter  the  dish  and 
put  on  the  bottom  a  layer  of  oysters.  Cover  them  with  a  layer  of 
rolled  crackers  or  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pieces  of  butter,  and  alternate  until  the  dish  is  filled,  using  the  crumbs 
for  the  last  layer,  moisten  well  with  the  oyster,  liquor.  Pour  over  all 
the  liquor,  and  if  there  is  not  enough  to  moisten  well,  add  a  cupful 
of  cream.  Bake  one-half  hour  and  serve  hot.  Be  sure  the  top  is  a 
nice  brown.  It  is  better  to  cover  the  dish  a  while  at  first  to  keep  it 
from  browning  tbo  quickly.  If  the  oyster  liquor  is  not  liked,  use 
milk  alone  for  moistening.  ;  , 

Scalloped  Oysters.— II.  Crush  and  roll  several  handfuls  of  crack- 
ers. Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Wet 
this  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquor  and  milk.  Next,  have  a  layer 
of  oysters.    Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  small  bits  of  but- 


72  SHELL  FISH. 

ter  upon  them.  Then  another  layer  of  moistened  crumbs,  and  so  on 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Let  the  top  layer  be  of  crumbs,  thicker  than 
the  rest,  and  beat  an-  egg  into  the  milk  you  pour  over  them.  Stick 
bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  cover  the  dish,  set  it  in  the  oven,  bake 
half  an  hour;  if  the  dish  be  large,  remove  the  cover,  and  brown  by 
setting  it  upon  the  upper  grating  of  oven. 

Scalloped  Oysters  with  Hard-BoUed  Hggs. — Chop  6  hard-boiled 
eggs  fine.  Add  these  to  1  pint  of  bread  crumbs.  Season  with  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  *salt  and  one-quarter  te^spoonfui  of  white  pepper. 
Put  a  layer  of  this  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  pudding 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  alternating  until  the  dish  is  full,  and 
haying  the  crumbs  for  the  last  layer.  Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, cut  in  bits  and  dot  over  the  top.  Pour  in  the  oyster  liquor  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  30  minutes.  Serve  hot.  *!. Milk  can  be  used 
instead"  of  the  oyster  liquor,  if  liked. 

Fried  Oysters. — Only  the  large  selects  are  fit  for  frying,  Dfy  ^ 
them  on  a  folded  towel,  laying  in  rows  upon  one  end  and  pressing, 
the  other  end  upon  them  to  absorb  the  moisture.  Beaf  2  eggs  light 
about  ten  minutes;  add  a  pinch  of  salt;  have  ready  a  bowl  of  cracker 
crumbs  (use  thin  soda  crackers),  about  one-half  pound,  and  roll  upon 
the  molding  board  until  fine;  put  one-half  of  the  cracker  dust  one 
side,  and  use  the  other  half  for  the  first  laying  in  of  the  oysters ;  take 
each  oyster  and  roll  it  in  the  cracker  dust  and  arrange  upon  a  plate ; 
after  aU  the  oysters  are  thus  rolled  take  each  one  and  dip  with  a  fork 
carefiilly  into  the  egg,  and  from  there  lay  into  the  second  half  of  rolled 
cracker,  putting  them  each  one  upon  a  plate.  Have  the  lard,  or  but- 
ter and  lard  mixed,  smoking  hot,  and  drop  in  the  oysters,  one  by  one, 
with  a  fork.  As  fast  as  one  side  of  an  oyster  is  done  turn  over.  Take 
out  with  a  fork.  A  quicker  way  is  to  put  several  in  a  wire  frying 
basket  and  immerse  it  in  the  ,hot  fat.  Serve  very  hot  and  garnish 
with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley.  Drain  for  a  moment  upon  coarse 
brown  paper  before  serving.  Epicures  prefer  to  fry  oysters  in  salad 
oil  rather  thati  butter ;  if  you  have  a  large  quantity  to  -fry,  they  may- 
be dipped  ah  hour  or  two  before  serving  time,  and  spread  on  a  clean 
cloth  in  a  cool  place.  They  may  also  be  drained,  dipped  in  seasoned 
corn  meal  and  fried  in  lard.  The  oyster  liquor  may  be  utilized  by 
stirring  into  a  batter,  with  some  of  the  seasoned  corn  meal,  and  dropped 
by  spoonfuls  into  the  hot  lard  to  fry  as  mock  oysters. 


SHELL  FISH.  73 

Oysters  Fried  in  Batter. — Drain  the  oysters  and  then  dip  into  a 
batter  made  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  cup  of  milk,  and  floar 
enough  to  form  a  soft  batter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
equal  quantities  of  butter  and  lard  into  a  spider,  and  let  the  mixture 
be.  smoking  hot  before  you  put  in  the  oysters.  Do  not  crowd  them. 
Turn  them  so  as  to  cook  both  sides  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  very  hot ' 
and  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon.  What  is  left  of  the  batter 
can  be  dropped  by  spoonfuls  in  the  hot  fat  and  fried  like  croquettes 
and  served  with  the  oysters.  - 

Restaurant  Fried  Oysters. — In  the  first  place,  avoid  cracker 
crumbs.  They  are  pasty.-  Instead,  put  some  stale  bread  in  the  oven 
to  diy,  and  after  it  is  thoroughly  hard  and  dry  grate  it  finely  and  keep 
the  crumbs  in  a  glass  jar,  so  that  if  any  are  left  they  can  be  kept  for 
future  use.  Then  beat  together  an  egg  and  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  sea- 
soning with  salt,  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  a  little  Worcester  sauce.  Be 
sure  not  to  beat  the  egg  separately.  Dip  the  oysters  first  in  their 
own  liquid,  then  in  the  crumbs,' then  in  the  egg  and  milk  and  lastly 
in  the  crumbs  again.  Then  comes  the  actual  frying,  which  is  the 
crucial  point.  The  secret  of  success  is  to  have  plenty  of  fat  and  have 
it  boiling  laot.  Let  them  brown  quickly  and  delicately  on  both  sides. 
Drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve.  Large  oysters  are  not  especially 
desirable,  except  for  looks.  The  'small  ones  taste  quite  as  good. 
Cooks  in  restaurants^  have  a  trick  of  putting  two  small  ones  toge1:her 
in  "  dipping  "  before  frying. 

Quick  Fried  Oysters. — Break  an  egg  in  a  bowl  and  beat  well ; 
then  turn  in  one-half  pint  of  oysters,  liquid  and  all.  Be  careful  to 
remove  any  bits  of  shell ;  stir  into  this  enough  finely  rolled  cracker 
crumbs  to  thicken.  Heat  butter  and  lard,  half  and  half,  in  a  frying 
pan.  Mix  the  oysters  and  crackers  thoroughly,  turn  all  into  the  fry- 
ing pan  and  level  it  like  a  large  thick  griddle-cake.  Fry  brown  on 
one  side  and  then  turn  and  brown  the  other  side.  Be  careful  not  to 
burn.  Have  it  rather  moist,  but  if  you  chance  to  get  in  too  many 
cracker  crumbs  add  a  spoonful  of  milk. 

'  Fried  Oysters  witli  Mushrooms. — Fry  the  oysters  after  any  pre- 
ferred recipe.  Take  mushrooms  and  cut  them  down  to  the  stem. 
Place  them  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  put  them 
in  the  oven  for  about  five  minutes.  Put  them  on  a  flat  di^h  and  put 
the  oysters  on  top,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 


74  SHELL  FISH. 

Panned  Oysters. — For  panning  oysters  in  the  following  way,  use 
patty  pans,  scallop  plates  or  small  deep  china  saucers.  Cut  pieces  of 
thin  toast  to  fill  the  bottom,  butter  them  well,  pour  a  tablespoonful  of 
well-seasoned  oyster  juice  upon  each  piece,  dip  the  oysters  jn  their 
liquor  and  put  a  double  layer  of  them  upon  each  piece  of  toast.  Place 
a  morsel  of  butter  upon  the  top,  put  all  into  a  baking  pan,  cover  and 
set  in  a  quick  oven  to  bake  8  or  10  minutes.  Serve  with  small  bits 
of  lemon  to  each  pan.     Send  hot  to  the  table  in  the  pans.  -  | 

Panned  Oysters. — II.  Put  a  sufficient  quantity  of  very  fine  oys- 
ters in  a  pan  together  with  their  own  juice.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of 
the  best  butter,  a  little  black  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Sprinkle  a 
quantity  of  fine  cracker  crumbs"  over  the  top.  Place  over  a  quick 
fire.  When  the  oysters  begin  to  swell  they  are  done.  Serve-  instantly. 
The  crumbs  can  be  omitted. 

Pan  Boast. — ^A  pan  roast  is  very  nearly  as  delicious  as  oysters 
roasted  in  the  shell.  Drain  the  oysters.  Put  an  iron  frying  pan  over 
a  quick  fire  to  heat ;  as  soon  as  it  is  hissing  hot  throw  in  the  oysters 
and  shake  and  stir  until  they  boil ;  then  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  for  25  oysters.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  im- 
mediately.    These  are  very  nice,  retaining  all  the  natural  oyster  flavor. 

Baked  Oysters. — ^Take  nice  large  oysters  in  the  shell.  Wash  and 
scrub  the  shells  until  free  from  sand.  Now  place  them  in  a  baking 
pan,  put  in  a  very  quick  oven  (400  degrees  Fahrenheit),  and  bake  until 
they  open  their  shells.  Now  remove  the  upper  shells,  put  a  small  bit 
Df  butter  on  each  oyster,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  cayenne  and 
serve  in  the  under  shells. 

Baked  Oysters.— II.  Open  the  shells,  keeping  the  deepest  one  fbr 
use.  Melt  some  butter  and  season  with  finely  chopped  parsley  and 
pepper.  When  slightly  cool  roll  each  oyster  in  it,  using  care  that  it 
drips  as  little  as  possible.  Lay  the  oysters  in  the  shells,  and  add  .to 
each  a  little  lemon  juice.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  place  the 
shells-in  a  dripping  pan  and  bake^in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  in  the  shells. 

Steamed  Oysters.. — Buy  the  oysters  unopened,  wash  thoroughly, 
using  a  brush  or  coarse  cloth;  place  them  separately  in  the  steamer, 
or  in  a  large  sieve  put  on  top  of  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water.  The 
deep  shell  must  be  undermost  in  order  that  no  juice  may  be  wasted. 
As  soon  as  the  oysters  open  they  are  done  and  should  be  served  at 
once  with  pepper,  salt,  butter,  etc.,  to  taste. 


SHELL  FISH.  75 

Steamed  Oysters. — IL  Drain  the  oysters  and  put  them  in  a  dish 
in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  and  steam  until  they 
are  plump  and  the  edges  muffled.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  let 
them  stand  a  moment  longer,  then  serve  on  rounds  of  buttered  toast. 

Fricassee  of  Oysters. — Twenty-five  oysters,  1  large  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  1 
beaten  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Salt  and  cayenne  tp 
taste.  Boil  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor ;  drain. ,  Put  the  butter  in 
a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add  the  flour ;  mix  until  smooth.  Now 
add  the  milk,  stir  until  it  boils ;  add  the  oysters  and  a  half  cup  of  the 
liquor,  salt  and  cayenne,  and  stii=^  again  until  it  boils.  Take  from  the 
fire,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  lightly  beaten  and  the  parsley ;  serve 
at  ojjce. 

Broiled  Oysters. — For  broiling  choose  large,  fat  oysters,  and  wipe 
each  one  with  a  soft  cloth.  Sprinkle  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  upon 
them,  and  dip  in  melted  butter.  Roll  each  one  in  cracker  dust.  But- 
ter Tvell  a  fine  wire.double  broiler,  and  lay  on  it  the  oysters.  Let  the 
fire  be  hot  and  clear.  Serve  very  hot  on  round  pieces  of  toast,  but- 
tered. Keep  the  broiler  expressly  for  oysters.  If  meat  is  broiled  on 
it,  it  will  impart  an  unpleasant  taste.  Some  cooks  oriiit  the  crumbs, 
dipping  simply  in  melted  butter.  The  oysters  can  be  served  with  a 
sauce,  as  follows : — Sauce  :  Simmer  togej:her  the  liquor,  a  bit  of  but- 
ter, and  enough  flour  to  thicken  to  the  consistency  of  the  cream. 
Maitre  de  Hotel  sauce  can  be  served  if  liked. 

Macaroni  and  Oysters. — Break  into  2-inch  lengths  4  ounces  of 
macaroni;  put  it  in  boiling  water ;  boil  rapidly  for  20  minutes ;  drain. 
Drain  25  oysters,  -put  a  layer  of  macaroni  in  bottom  of  baking  dish, 
then  a  layer  of  oysters,  a  dust  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  so  continue 
until  the  materials  are  used ;  cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  put  a 
few  bits  of  butter  over  the  top,  and  brown  in  the  oven  20  minutes. 
Add  the  strained  oyster  liquor  to  moisten,  and  a  cupful  of  milk. 

Spaghetti  and  Oysters. — One  quart  of  oysters  and  1  cupful  of 
spaghetti,  broken  in  half-inch  pieces.  Boil  the  spaghetti  in  boiling 
salted  water  for  30  minutes.  Drain  and  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  suspicion  of  cayenne.  Grease  a  baking  dish 
and  put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of  oysters ;  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  to  taste,  and  add  a  few  small  pieces  of 
butter,  then  another  layer  of  spaghetti  and  oysters,  having  the  top 


76  SHfiLL  FISH. 

layer  spaghetti,  with  a  sprinkling  of  grated  cheese.    Bake  in  a  mod* 
erate  oven  20  minutes  and  serve. 

Oysters  and  Rice. — Wash  1  pint  of  rice,  put  it  into  a  double 
boiler,  and  salt  to  taste ;  add  the  strained  liquor  from  one  quart  of 
oystersj  stir  occasionally  while  cooking;  when  done  and  while  hot 
add  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  beat  2  eggs  separately,  and  when 
cool  stir  them  in ;  butter  a  pudding  dish  and  put  the  rice  into  it ;  it 
should  be  1^  inches  deep;  spread  the  oysters  over  the  rice ;  salt  and 
pepper  and  cover  with  bits  of  butter,  sprinkle  over  the  oysters  1  large 
cup  of  fine  cracker  dust  and  more  butter  in  bits;  brown  quickly  in  a 
hot  oven  and  serve  at  once. 

Curried  Oysters. — Drain  the  juice  from  1  pint  of  oysters,  put  in 
a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  skim  ;"put  into  another 
saucepan  tTi(o  ounces  of  butter,  one  small  onion,  cut  into  thin  strips. 
As  soon  as  the  onion  is  a  golden  brown  add  to  it  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour.  Stir  until  it  is  a  smooth  paste,  turn  in  one-half  pint  of  the  oys- 
ters that  have  been  boiled,  1  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Allow  it 
to  first  boil.  Strain  into  a  double  boiler  and  put  it  where  it  will  keep 
warm.  Wipe  off  1  pint  of  oysters,  brush  with  butter  a  hot  griddle, 
place  the  oysters  on  it,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  tp  curl  turn  them 
over.     When  donp  add  them  to  the  sauce  and  serve  immediately. 

Oyster  Vol  au  Vent. — This  is  delicious,  and  when  carefully  pre- 
pared makes  an  excellent  entree.  Blanch  and  drain  50  Oysters,  soak 
a  pair  of  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  remove  the  skin,  fat 
and  other  impurities,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
salted^and  spiced  to  taste ;  boil  1  minute,  take  them  off  and  drop  in 
cold  water.  Quarter  them  and  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  oyster 
liquor,  a  gill  of  cream  and  two  sakspoonfuls  of  salt.  Stew  until  the 
sweetbreads  are  cooked,  and  add  4  ounces  of  butter,  rubbed  into  2  of 
flour;  add  oysters,  give  one  boil,  fill  either  the  individual  pastry  shells 
with  the  mixture,  with  a  ladleful  of  sauce  over  each,  or  put  all  in  a 
large  vol  au  vent  case,  which  can  be  ordered  from  the  baker,  or  simply 
serve  in  a  heated  china  dish. 

Oysters  on  Toast. — Select  12  fresh,  plump  oysters.  Have  ready 
delicately  browned  toast,  moistened  in  hot  milk,  and  well  buttered.. 
Put  the  oysters  with  their  own  liquor  in  a  stew-pan ;  season  with  a 
little  black  pepper,  one-half  blade  of  mace,  and  one-h|lf  teacup  of  rich 
cream.    Let  this  boil  until  the  oysters  swell.     Remove  and  place  upon. 


SHELL  FISH.  77 

the  hot  toast,  enriching  with  bits  of  fresh  butter.  Rub  1  teaspoonful 
of  butter  and  1  teaspoonful  of  flour  together,  stir  this  into  the  boiling 
oyster  liquor.  Then  pour  it  over  th?  toast  and  oysters,  which  must 
be  kept  very  hot.  For  a  larger_quantity,  1  quart  of  oysters  and  their 
liquor  to  one  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 

Oysters  on  Toast.— H.  {Without Milk). — Strain  the  oyster  liquor, 
rinse  the  bifs  of  shell  from  the  oysters,  turn  the  liquor  back  upon 
them,  and  put  iin  a  stew-pan,  set  them  where  they  will  boil  up.  Salt, 
pepper  and  butter  to  your  taste.  Have  ready  nicely-browned ,  toast, 
previously  moistened  in  boiling  water  and  well  buttered.  Arrange 
this  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  oysters,  and  serve  at  once. 
If  this  gravy  is  too  rich,  add  a  little  water  to  the  oyster  liquor.  Serve 
walnut  catsup  or  vinegar  with  them. 

Oysters  on  Crackers. — Split  common  crackers,  butter  and  brown 
crisply ;  then  on  each  half  cracker  put  as  many  oysters  as  will  cover 
the  surface,  well  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper ;  set  in  the  oven  until 
the  oysters  grow  plump. 

Griddled  Oysters. — Have  the  griddle  heated  the  same  as  for 
griddle  cakes.  Wipe  the  oysters  dry.  Now  spread  them  on  a  clean 
towel  and  place  on  a  large  plate.  Have  on  a  dish  as  many  slices  of 
buttered  toast  as  there  are  persons  to  serve.  Take  1  tablespoonful 
of  butter  for  every  dozen  oysters.  Drop  a  piece  of  butter  about  the 
size  of  a  large  pea  on  the  hot  griddle  and  immediately  drop  an  oyster 
on  this  butter.  Continue  this  work  rapidly  until  the  oysters  are  on 
the  griddle.  Now  come  back  to  the  first  one.  ,Drop  a  bit  of  butter 
near  it,  then  slip  a  knife  under  the  oyster  and  lift  it  from  the  griddle, 
with  the  brown  crust  that  has  formed  under  it.  Turn  it  over  on  the 
fresh  bit  of  butter  and  continue  in  this  way  until  all  have  been  turned. 
Then,  beginning  with  the  first  oyster,  take  off  all  and  place  them  on 
the  toast.  The  entire  worjc  must  be  done  rapidly  or  the  oysters  will 
be  cooked  too  much.  Never  try  the  shorter  way  of  buttering  the 
entire  griddle  at  once;  if  you  do  you  will  have  burned  butter,  which 
will  destroy  the  true  flavor  of  the  oysters. 

GriUed  Oysters. — Same  as  Griddled  Oysters. 

Oyster  Patties. — Make  tart  shells  in  small  patty-pans  as  for  fruit 
tarts,  and  fill  with  bysters  prepared  as  follows :  Take  1  quart  of  oys- 
ters, place  in  a  large  baking  dish  with  butter,  pepper  and  saltto  taste. 
Bake  Hntil  the  oysters  curl.    In  th«  meantime  put  in  a  saucepan  1 


78 


SHELL  FISH. 


pint  of  milk.  When  this  scalds,  add  1  large  teaspoonful  of  corn 
starch  moistened  with  cold  milk ;  let  boil,  season  with  salt  and  a 
,  tablespoonful  of  butter.  A  dash  of  cayenne  improves  the  flavor. 
The  gravy  should  be  quite  thick.  To  this  mixture  add  the  oysters, 
but  do  not  let  them  boil.     Spread  a  napkin  over  a  platter.     Fill  the 

patty-shells  and  serve  at  once.  These 
patties  may  be  changed  by  filling  the 
patty-pans  with  raw  paste,  pouring  in  the 
above  mixture,  covering  the  top  of-  each 
one  thickly  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  dot- 
ting it  with  bits  of  butter,  and  baking  in 
the  oven  until  the  crust  is  done.  Serve 
in  the  same  manner.  Milk  may  be  omitted 
in  this  last  way  and  the  oyster  liquor  simply  seasoned  \iighly  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter,  thickened  with  corn  starch,  scalded  and  poured 
over  the  oysters,  and  the  patties  filled  as  before. 

Oyster  Patties. — IL  Put  into  a  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  dash  of  pepper,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teacupful  of  cracken; 
crumbs.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  1  pint  of  chopped  oysters^ 
simmer  for  10  minutes;  pour  into  shells;  sprinkle  with  cracker 
crumbs.     Place  in  the  oven  for  about  3  minutes.     Serve  hot. - 

Oyster  Pates.~One  pint  of  cream,  1  quart  of  oysters,  1  tabte-.- 
spoonful  of  flour,  yolks  of  2  well-beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
let  the  cream  come  to  a  boil,  mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  cream  and  add  the  seasoning ;  let  the  oysters 
come  to  a  boil  in  their  own  liquor,  drain  and  put  each  oyster  into  3  or 
4  pieces,  add  them  to  the  cream  and  boil  up  once ;  then  add  the  beateiv 
yolks,  have  the  patty-shells  baked ;  fill  with  the  mixture  and  serve. 
This  makes  20  shells.  Bake /the  shells  in  patty-pans,  use  rich  puff  paste. 
It  is  nice  to  bake  small  rounds  for  covers  also.  Heat  the  shells  if 
they  are  not  freshly  baked.  Put  on  the  covers  and  set  in  the  oven  fof 
4  or  5  miiuites. 

Oyster  Pates.-^II.  Stew  some  oysters  in  a  little  of  their  own 
liquor,  add  cream,,butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  coql. 
Have  shells  of  puff  paste,  or  little  cases,  prepared,  lay  two  or  three 
oysters  in  each,  and  pour  in  the  gravy. 

Mushi^oom  and  Oyster  Pates.^One  can  select  oysters,  put  in  a 
strainer  and  drain  liquor  off;  ©ne-half  can  of  mushrooms  cut  rather 


SHELL  FISH.  79 

Iftlall,  according  to  size,  pour  juice  of  both  together,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  capers  chopped  fine,  2  spriga.  of  parsley.  When  this  is  pre- 
pared put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan.  When  melted 
add  as  much  flour  as  it  will  absorb,  stir  into  a  smooth  white  roux, 
pour  the  liquor  in  gradually  until  a  very  thick  broth  is  obtained.  Stir 
continually,  as  some  cans  of  oysters  do  not  ha,ve  much  juice,  add  a 
little  water,  not  too  much ;  if  the  roux  is  too  thin,  the  oysters  will 
draw;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  just 
before  serving.  If  for  an  oyster  pie,.throw  in  all  together  and  fill  pie 
immediately.  Bake  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  If  for  patties,  let  all 
be  hot  before  putting  in  cases.  ' 

Oysters  a  la  Ifewburg'. — Put  25  oysters  over  the  fire  in  their  own 
liquor,  stir  carefully  until  they  come  to  a  boiling  point,  drain  carefully, 
put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan,  add  a  tablespoonful. 
of 'flour,  mix.  Add  a  gill  of  cream,  and  when  boiling  add  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  the  oysters.  Bring  again  to  a  boiling  point,  season^ 
and  turn  into  a  dish.  Sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  and 
garnish  with,  tiny  crackers.  If  wine  is  not  used,  the  same  quantity  of- 
lemon  juice  may  be  substituted. 

Potato  Oyster  Pats.— Peel  and  boil  12  potatoes,  mash  fine,  salt 
to  taste,  add  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  cream ;  beat  lightly ;  when  cold  work  into  pats,  putting  2  oys- 
ters into  each ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  meal ;  put  butter  on 
the  top  of  each ;  bake  a  light  brown  in  quick  oven. 

Oysters  a  la  Poulette. — Wash  a  solid  quart  of  oysters  in  their 
own  liquor  and  drain  in  a  colander._  When  well  drained  set  aside. 
Strain  the  liquor  and  put  half  a  pint  into  a  saucepan.  When  it  boils 
skim  carefully,  and  stir  into  it  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  mixed 
smooth,  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  5  minutes. 
Pour  a  quart  of  cream  into  a  double  boiler,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil 
add  the  thickened  oyster  liquor,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  slight 
grating  of  nutmeg  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Have  ready  the  well* 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  add  to  them  half  a  cup  of  cold  cream. 
Turn  the  oysters  into  the  boiling  mixture,  together  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  the  egg  mixture.  Cook  for  3  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Remove  from  the  fire  immediately,,  and  serve  with  a 
border  of  puff  paste  cakes.  If  liked,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice 
or  a  wine  glass  of  sherry  naay  be  added,  just  as  the  oysters  are 


80  ,  SHELL  FISH. 

taken  from  the  fire.     Two  beaten  eggs  can  be  used  instead  of  the  4 
egg  yolks. 

Oyster  Griddle  Cakes. — Two  scant  cups  of  sifted  flour  and  2 
scant  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and  sift  twice,  always 
twice.  Mix  with  sweet  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  thick  cream; 
if  thin  cream  use  2  teaspoonfuls.  Do  not  have  the  batter  too  thick. 
Dot  the  griddle  all  over  with  a  little,  not  nearly  as  much  as  for  regu- 
lar griddle  cakes ;  lay  an  oyster  on  each  cake ;  salt  and  pepper;  cover 
with  a  little  more  of  the  batter,  and  cook  rather  slowly  until  a  nice 
brown.  Turn  and  drain  the  oysters.  Grease  the  griddle  well  each 
frying.     Warm  the  plates.     Eat  hot  with  butter. 

Another  batter  to  be  used  the  same  way :  Two  eggs  (to  a  pint  of 
oysters),  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Thin  with  the  oyster  liquor  and  milk  until  thick 
enough  to  drop  froiii  the  spoon.  \ 

Oyster  and  Mushroom  Bag'out. — A  ragout  of  oysters  is  con- 
sidered by  many  the  most  savory  way  fo  prepare  them.  Boil  25  oysters 
in  their  liquor  for  1  minute  and  drain,  saving  the  liquor.  Let  cold 
watdr  run  over  the  oysters,  remove  the  hard  parts,  or  eyes,  and  throw 
them  away.  Peel  a  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms,  cut  them  in  pieces  and 
simmer  for  5  minutes  with  2  ounces  of  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, add  the  oysters,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  oyster  liquor,  a  gill  of  thick, 
sweet,  hot  cream,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  cut  into  small  bits  and 
rolled  in  flour.     Let  them  boil  up  once  and  serve  in  individual  dishes. 

Oyster  Pie. — Line  a  deep  dish  with  nice  paste,  dredge  the  crust 
with  flour,  pour  in  1  pint  of  oysters.  Season  well  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  sprinkling  flour  over  all.  Pour  cm  a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor. 
Cover  with  a  crust.  Two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  coarsely  and 
mixed  with  the  oysters,  will  be  found  a  desirable  addition.  The  eggs 
and  the  flour  may  be  omitted  and  a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  used  instead 
One-half  teaspoonful  of  mace  is  liked  by  some.     Ssi've  as  an  entree. 

Veal  and  Oyster  Pie. — One  pound  and  a  half  of  veal  cutlets,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  ham,  60  oysters,  a  cupful  of  weak  gravy  or 
bj-oth,  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon ;  pepper,  salt  and  puff  paste.  Cut  the 
veal  into  small,  neat  cutlets  and  spread  over  each  a  thin  lay^r  of 
minced  ham;  season  them  with  pepper,  salt  and  grated  lemon  peel, 
and  roll  each  cutlet  round.  Line  the  sides  of,  a  pie  dish  with  good 
paste,  put  a  layer  of  rolled  veal  at  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of  oysters, 


SHELL  FISH.  -81 

ithen  another  layer  of  veal  and  a  layer  of  oysters;  on  top  dredge  each 
layer  with  a  little  flour.  Pour  over  it  a  gravy  made  of  a  cupful  of 
weak  gravy  or  broth,  the  grated  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  the  oyster  liquor 
strained  and  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  crust  over  the 
top,  Ornament  it  in  any  way  you  please;  egg  it  over  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  lyi  hours.  , 

Boston  Oyster  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  puff  paste,,  or 
ordinary  pie  past^.  Fold  a  clean  towel  and  put  into  the  dish  to  sup- 
port the  lid,  and  place  over  it  a  sheet  of  paste  for  said  lid.  Bake  the 
paste  well.  When  done  remove  the  lid  and  take  out  the  towel.  In 
the  meantime  drain  the  oysters,  carefullystrain  the  liquor  and  put  the 
oysters  in  a  stew  pan  with  just  enough  of  the  liquor  to  keep  them 
from  burning.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Add  a  little 
sweet  cream  or  milk  and  a  couple  of  crackers  rolled  fine.  Let  the 
oysters  simmer,  but  not  boil.  Remove  the  upper  crust  of  pastry,  fill 
the  dish  with  the  oysters  and  gravy,  replace  the  cover  and  serve  the 
whole  hot.  The  upper  crust  can  be  baked  separately  on  a  pie  plate 
same  size  as  the  pie  and  then  used  for  a  cover. 

Liittle  Oyster  Pies. — Take  the  small  pie  plates  half  the  size  of 
ordinary  pie  plates,  line  with  puff  paste,  lay  on  5  or  6  large  oysters, 
or  enough  smaller  ones  to  cover  the  bottom.  Do};  with  bits  of  butter 
and  season  with  a  little  salt  and  plenty  of  pepper.  Make  an  egg 
batter  as  for  Oyster  Griddle  Cakes,  and  pour  over  the  oysters.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes.  Some  cooks  cover  the  whole  with  a  crust 
of  the  paste,  prickiiig  it  with  a  fork,  and  bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 
These  are  really  to  be  served  individually,  and  are  more  appropriate 
to  a  restaurant  than  a  private  family.  A  large  pie  cpuld  be  made  in 
the  same  manner. 

Oysters  au  Beurre  TSoiv. — Place  1  pint  of  oysters  in  a  saucepan 
%nd  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  allow  them  to  plump 
in  their  own  liquor,  tossing  lightly  with  a  fork.  In  another  pan  put, 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  stir  until  it  browns  (not  burns),  then  add 
third  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  and  when  hot  pour  over  the  oysters  (draining 
them  first)  and  serve  at  once  with  thin  points  of  dry  toast. 

Curled  Oysters. — Put  slices  of  generously  buttered  toast  in  a 
dripping-pan ;  pour  over  them  a  quai-t  of  oysters,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  in  the  upper  part  of  a  very  hot  oven  and  bake  until 
the  oysters  begin  to  shrivel. 

COOK— 6 


82  SHELL  FISH. 

Oyster  Loaf.— Prain  50  good,  fat  oysters.  Put  them  over  the 
fire,  watch  carefully  to  a  boil.  Drain,  add  to  the  liquor  sufficient 
milk  to  make  1  pint.  Rub  together  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  and.  2  of 
flour.  Add  milk  and  the  oyster  liquor.  When^  boiling  add  oysters, 
1  beaten  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley,  and  a^^palatable  seasoning 
of  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot  in  a  boat  made  from  stale  bread  nicely 
fried.  To  make  a  boat  use  half  a  loaf  stale  bread  from  which  the  middle 
has  been  taken,  brush,  with  melted  butter  and  put  in  a  quick  oven 
until  a  light  brown.  ,^  ■'#■ 

Oyster  lidaf. — II.  Cut  the  tops  from  the  requisite  number  of 
small  French  joUs ;  brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  brown  while  you  prepare  the  oysters.  Allow  3  large  oysters  for 
each  roll ;  bring  them  to  the  boil  in  their  liquor ;  lift  out  and  thicken 
the  liquor  with  a  white  roux  of  butter  and  flour;  add  a  gill  pf  cream 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  with  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 
This  sauce  must  be  very  thick ;  -lay  in  the  oysters ;  fill  the  rolls  with: 
the  mixture;  set  on  the  tops  and  serve  at  once.  Roux  is  a.  creamy 
mixture  of  butter  and  flour  melted  together.  Instead  of  the  rolls, 
cases  may  be  prepared  as  follows;  Cut  a  long:  loaf  of  bread  into 
slices  aboi|t  2  inches  thick,  a  baker's  5  cent  loaf  will  make  6.  Now 
trim  off  the  crust  and  make  each  piece  square.  Dig  the  crumb  out 
of  the  centre  pf  each  piece,  leaving  sides  and,  bottom  like  a  box — 
that  is,  make  a  square  box  out  pf  each  slice  of  bread.  Brush  each 
bax  over  with  nielted  butter  and  put  in  .a  quick  oven  until  a  light 
brown.     Fill  with  the  above  mixture., 

Cronstade  of  Oysters. — ^Take  a  stale  loaf  of  bread. '  If  home- 
made, bake  a  loaf  for  the  purpose  in  a  2  quart  basin.  When  ready 
for  use,  with  a  sharp  knife  remove  the  heart  of  the  bread,  working 
carefully  not  to  break  the  crust.  Break  up  the  crumbs  very  fine  ahd 
dry  slowly  in  the  oven ;  then  quickly  fry  3  cupfuls  of  them  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  until  crisp  and  golden  brown,  stirring  all  the 
time;  2  minutes  will  usuallybe  enough  time.  Put  1  quart  of  cream 
(if  you  have  it,  or,  wanting'  that,  the  richest  milk  you  can  get)  on  to 
boil.  Just  as  it  boils  stir  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of -flour  mixed  smooth 
in  half  a  cup  of  cold  milk.  Boil  8  minutes,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Put  a  layer  of  this  sauce  in  the  cronstade,  then  a 
layer  of  oysters,  which,  dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  then 
another  layer ,  of  sauce  and  one  of  fried  crumbs.     Continue  this 


SHELL  FISH.  83 

until  the  cronstade  is  nearly  full,  having  the  last  layer  a  thick  one  of 
crumbs.  Bake  slowly  half  an  hour ;  garnish  with  parsley.  It  takes 
1)4  B»nts  of  oysters  and  about  3  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper. 

Pickled  Oysters. — Put  100  large  oysters,  with  the  liquor,  into  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle.  Heat  slowly  until  the  oysters  are  very  hot, 
but  not  boiling.  Take  them  out  with  a  skimmer* and  set  aside  in  a 
stone  jar  to  cool.  To  the  liquor  which  remains  in  the  kettle  add  1 
pint  of  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  whole  mace,  the  same  quantity  of  whole 
cloves,  and  2  large  red  peppers,  cut  into  pieces.  When  it  comes  to 
a  boil  pour  over  the  oysters.  Coyer  the  jar  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 
The  following  day  put  the  pickled  oysters  into  pint  glass  jars  and 
seal.  The  air,  like  the  light,  will  turn  them  dark,  so  keep  the  jars  in 
a  dark,  cool  place.     Will  keep  2  or  3  weeks.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Deviled  Oysters. — To  devil  oysters  in  their  shells,' select  large 
ones,  and  when_opened  keep  them  in  their  deep  shells  with  the  liquor. 
Place  the  shells  on  a  gridiron,  season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt, 
placing  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each  oyster.  Have 
your  fire  bright,  and  a  few  minutes  will  suffice  to  cook  them. 

Deviled  Oysters. — II.  Twenty-five  nice  fat  oysters,  half  pint  of 
cream,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  salt  and  cayenne  peppeir 
to.  taste.  Drain  the  oysters  and  chop  them  middling  fine  and  drain 
again.  Put  the  cream  on  to  boil.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together- 
and  stir  into  the  cream  when  boiling.  As  soon  as  it  thickens  take  it 
from  the  fire  and  add  all  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  the  yolks  before 
adding  them.  Have  the  deep  shells  of  the  oysters  washed  periectly  , 
clean,  fill  them  with  this  mixture,  sprinkle  lightly  with  bread  crumbs, 
put  them  in  a  baking  pan  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven  for  5  minutes. 
Serve  in  the  shells,  garnish  with  parsley. 

They  may  be  cooked  in  clam  or  silver  scallop  shells,  but  are  much 
better  done  in  their  own  shells,  as  there  is  a  flavor  imparted  by  the 
heated  shell  which  greatly  enriches  the  mixture.  A  word  of  caution 
— avoid  long  cooking,  as  it  makes  them  dry.  If  your  oven  will  not 
brown  them  in  5  or  6  minutes,  and  you  have  no  salamander,  heat 
your  fire  shovel  red-hot.  Take  the  shells  from  the  oven,  hold  the 
shovel  over  them  until  they  brown.  These  may  be  prepared  sevei^ai 
hours  before  they  are  wanted  and  placed  in  the  oven  and  brpwn^d  ^ 


84  SHELL  FISH. 

serving  time.  One-half  teaspoonful  dry  mustard  is  a  spicy  addition 
to  the  seasoning.  Instead  of  thickening  the  preparation  with  flour, 
?ome  cooks  use  for  this  amount  of  oysters,  half  cupful  of  rolled  cracker 
crumbs  omitting  the  eggs  and"  adding  the  butter  to  the  crumbs  and 
stirring  into  the  boiling  cream.     Cook  in  same  manner. 

Stuffed  Oysters. — Wipe  and  season  large  oysters  with  salt  and 
pepper;  roll  them  in  cracker  dust;  spread  half  the  oysters  with  force- 
meat; cover  these  with  the  remaining  oysters;  press  them  together 
gently;  roll  them  in  the  crumbs  again  and  fry  in  the  usual  way. 
Serve  on  a  folded  napkin,  with  lemon  points.  '  A  bread, dressing  sea- 
soned with  onions  and  mixed  with  egg  may  be  used. 

Stuffed  Oysters. — II.  A  delicious,  but  troublesome  method  of 
serving  this  dish.  For  24  large  oysters  take  for  force-meat  the  breast  of 
a  fowl,  chopped,  pounded  and  rubbed  fine.  One-fourth  of  a  cupful  of 
cream  or  miljc,  eighth  of  a  cupful  of  stale  bread  crumbs  free  of  crust,  the 
Hrhite  of  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
tiny  bit  of  white  pepper  and  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg.-  Put  the  bread 
and  cream  in  a  small  saucepan  and  cook  until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed. 
Take  this  paste  from  the  fire  and  add  the  seasoning,  chicken  and  the 
tirhite  of  the  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  all  well  and  set  away  to  cool. 
£)ry  the  oysters  on  a  soft  towel  and.  season  theni  well  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Now  i-oll  them  in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  lay  them  on  a 
large  dish.  Divide  the  forcemeat  into  12  parts  and  spread  evenly  on 
12  oysters.  lAy  the  other  12  oysters  on  the  first  dozen,  pressing 
gently  with  the  aid  of  the  knife  to  make  them  stick.  Put  into  a  deep  . 
plate  the  yolk  of  the  egg  left  from  the  forcemeat  and  1  whole  egg, 
and  beat  well  with  a  fork.  Season  with  salt.  Dip  the  stuffed  oysters 
in  this  egg  and  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  being  careful  to  have 
every  part  covered  Tvith  the  egg  and  crumbs.  When  all  are  done 
place  them  in  a  flying  basket  and  cook  until  they  are  a  rich  brown 
in  fat  at  the  temperature  "'f)f^  about  400  degrees.  It  will  take  about 
Ij^  minutes  to  fry  them.  The  stuffed  oysters  may  be  kept  in  a  cool_ 
place  for  several  hours  before  frying.  If  wished,  maitre^  de  Hotel 
sauce  may  be  served  with^them.  ' 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets.^Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cut  fat  English  bacon  in  very  thin  slices,  wrap  an  oyster  in 
each  slice  and  fasten  with  a  little  wooden  toothpick.  '  Heat  a  frying 
pan  and  put  in  the  little  pig.     Cook  just  long  enough  to  crjsp  the 


SHELL  FISH.  85 

bacon,  about  2  minutes.  Place  on  slices  of  toast  that  have  been  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Do  not  remove  the  skewers;  garnish  with  parsley. 
Have  the  pan  very  hot  before  the  pigs  are  put  in  and  shake  con- 
tinually; do  not  burn.  If  2  or  3  drops  of  lemon  juice  are  squeezed 
over  each  oyster  before  rolling  up,  the  flavor  will  be  improved.  Have 
small  rounds  or  triangles  of  hottoast,  buttered,  lay  on  each  one  or 
more  oysters  according  to  size,  and  serve  quickly.  Garnish  with  cut 
lemon  and  parsley. 

Oyster  Saute. — Twenty-five  nice  fat  oysters,  quarter  pound  of  Irish 
breakfast  bacon,  pepper  and  flour.  Drain  the  oysters  and  dry  them , 
with  a  towel,  then  sprinkle-with  pepper  and  roll  them  in  flour.  Put 
the  bacon,  cut  into  thin  slices,  in  a  frying  pan,  and  let  all  the  fat  fry 
out  of  it;  then  remove  the  bacon  and  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
with  oysters ;  as  soon  as  crisp  and  brown  on  one  side  turn  and  brown 
on  the  other.  Serve  on  squares  of  buttered  toast.  These  are  de- 
licious.    If  no  Irish  bacon  is  at  hand,  use  the  ordinary  smoked  pork 

Oysters  a  la  Normandie. — One  pint  of  large  oysters,  remove 
from  their  liquor  and  put  over  the  fire  with  1  teaspoonful  of  buttet , 
juice  of  1  lemon,  1  teaspoonful  celery  salt,  let  simmer  3  minutes  and 
remove.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  coOk  it  for  2 
minutes  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Add  1  cupful  of  chicken 
broth,  1  cupful  of  the  oyster  liquor,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom 
liquor  and  cook  5  minutes  and  remove.  Add  half  teaspoonful  of  sea- 
soning salt  and  1  egg  beaten  with"  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice; 
add  this^  slowly  to  the  sauce  ;  then  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and 
last  of  all  the  oysters.  Let  them  reach  boiling  point  and  pour  over 
6  slices  of  toast. 

Oyster  Rarebit. — Clean  and  remove  the  Jiard  muscle  from  half  a 
pint  of  oysters;  parboil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until  their  edges  curl, 
and  remove  to  a  hofbowl.  Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half 
pound  of  cheese  broken  in  sball  bits,  1  saltspoon  each  of  salt  and 
mustard,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  into  a  dish ;  while  the  butter  is 
Aielting  beat  2  eggs  slightly  and  add  to  them  the  oyster  liquor ;  mix 
this  gradually  to  the  melted  cl^eesej  add  the  oysters  and  turn  at  once 
over  hot  toast. 

Oyster  Potple. — Scald  a  quart  can  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor. 
When  it  boils  skim  out  the  oysters  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place. 
To  the  liquor  add  a  pint  of  hot  water.    Season  with  pepper  and  salt 


86  SHELL  FISH. 

and  a  generous  piece  of  butter.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  cold  milk.  Have  ready  light  biscuit  dough,  rolled 
half  inch  thick,  cut  into  inch  squares,  drop  into  thelaoiling  stew,  cover 
closely  and  cook  40  minutes.  Stir  the"  oysters  in,  let  boil  up  once 
and  serve  in  the  sauce  dish.    A  nice  entree. 

Smotliered  Oysters. — Into  a  saucepan  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
a  saltspopn  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt;  when  hot  add  a  pint  of 
strained  oysters ;  shake  the  pan  to  keep  the  oysters  from  sticking, 
end  when  plump  serve  on  toasted  crackers. 

Oyster  Shqrt-Cake. — Make  a  short-cake  and  bake  on  pie  plates, 
f  ut  a  quart  of  oysters  over  the  fire  with  half  cupful  of  milk  and  quarter 
cupful  of  water,  2  teaspoonfuls  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  thicken  with  1 
tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  the  water.  When  the  short- 
cakes are  baked,  split  and  spread  oysters  between  and  over  the  top. 

Oyster  Sausages. — One  cup  of  chicken  or  veal  minced  fine,  1 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1 -ounce  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  30  bysters 
chopped,  add  1  egg,  season  with  black  pepper  and  mace  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper.  Make  Jhto  balls  or  sausage  shape.  Boil  in  egg'  and 
bread  crumbs  and  fry.    Serve  with  a  rich,  brown  gravy. 

Oyster  Cocktails. — The'  following  recipe  was  furnished  by  the 
thef  of  a  prominent  New  York  club.  For  every  100  small  oysters 
take  4  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  a  tablespoonful  of  pepper 
vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  the  juice  of  2 
lemons,  2  or  3  drops  of  tabasco  sauce  and  a  cup  of  oyster  liquor. 
Drain  the  oysters  free  from  their  liquor  and  strain  the  required 
amount  before  using.  Mix  the  cocktail  fully  half  an  hour  before 
serving,  and  thoroughly  chill. 

Lobsters. 

If  purchased  alive,  lobsters  should  be  of  a  dark  green  color  and 
the  shell  not  bruised  nor  broken.  If  already  boiled,  the  shell  should 
be  firm  and  a  good  bright  red,  with  the  tail  well  curled  under.  K 
the  tail  hangs  out  straight  they  have  died  before  being  boiled,  and 
are  not  good.  Epicures  prefer  the  "  hen  lobsters  "  on  account  of  the 
coral  or  eggs.  Very  large  lobsters  are  not  the  best,  the  meat  being 
totigh. 

Boiled  liobster. — Have  sufficient  well-salted  water  boiling  to 
covev  the  desired  number  of  lobsters.    Drop  them  in  alive  and  boil 


SHELL  FISH.  sr 

till  thoroughlj'  cooked,  which  will  take  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 
When  boiled  they  should  look  a  good  red  color  and  seem  firm.  If 
boiled  without  salt  they  will  taste  insipid ;  half  cup  of  salt  to  4  pounds 
of  lobster  is  the  proportion.  To  open  and  take  from  the  sh'ell  break" 
off  the  large  claws,  separate  the  upper  jointed  part  and  drain  the 
liquor  into  a  cup.  Then  remove  the  small  claws  and  pull  the  tail 
from  the  body;,  _  Crack  the  large  claws  and  joints  well  with  a  mallet, 
and  remove  the  meat  with  a  fork.  A  nut-pick  or  skewer  will  be  of 
assistance  in  taking  the  meat  from  the  joints.  If  there  is  much  white 
fet  in  the  shells,  scrape  it  on  to  a  plate.  Lay  the  tails  flat  on  a  board 
and  cut  nearly  through  lengthwise  a  little  to  one  side  of  the  centre 
by  pressing  with  a  carver  or  chopping-knife.  Having  laid  the  tail 
open  you  will  see  a  bla<ck  line  running  through  the  centre,  which 
must  be  carefully  removed.  Pull  the  bodies  from  the  shell  and  care- 
fully scrape  every  bit  of  green  fat  ("tomalley")  and  coral  on  to  a 
plate.  Here  again  look  out  for  the  black  line,  as  it  runs  the  whole 
length  of  the  lobster.  It  may  not  be  black  all  the  way,  but  will  be 
apparent  as  a  whitish  cord.  The  bodies  may  be  broken  lengthwise, 
the  cells  on  the  sides  broken  apart  and  the  meat  removed.  Care 
must  be  taken  in  doing  this  not  to  get  the  bony  substance  with  the 
meat.  Save  the  best  of  the  small  claws  to  garnish  the  salad  and  add 
the  rest  to  the  shells.  The  head  is  not  to  be  used.  The  sand  pouch 
near  the  throat  is  to  be  removed.  Care  must  be  taken  that  none  of 
the  tough  gill-like  particles  found  under  the  body  shall  get  mixed 
with  the  meat,  as  they  are  very  indigestible.  Serve  the  boiled  lobstei 
meat  warm  with  a  sauce,  or  cold  as  a  relish. 

liObster  Sauce. — Bruise  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  with 
the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  or  pound  in  a  mortar,  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  water,  and  the  soft  inside  and  spawn  of~the  lobster;  rub  all 
quite  smooth,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  salad  oil  and  3  or  4  of  vinegar;  season  with  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a 
little  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce  and  1  of  tarragon  vinegar. 
This  sauce  may  accompany  a  lobster  to  table,  or  be  used  for  a  sa.lad 
dressing,  and  poured  over  just  before  serving. 

Broiled  Lobster. — A  lobster  not  less  than  10  J^  inches  long  should 
be  selected  and  split  in  two  lengthwise,  which  instafitly  kills  it 
Remove  the  entrail  and  stomach.  '  Brush  a  little  butter  over  the  lob- 
ster and  broil  the  shell  side  first,  then  turn  and  broil  the  other. 


88  SHELL  FISH. 

Serve  with  melted  butter.  The  lobster  should  never  be  boiled  and 
then  broiled.  Crack  the  large  claws  and  joints  before  broiling,  so 
the  meat  can  be  removed  readily  after  it  is  cooked.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon,  or  parsley. 

Broiled  Lobster. — H.  Remove  the  meat  from  shell  whole,  where- 
ever  it  is  possible,  place  it  on  the  broiler,  and  broil  slowly  until  a 
delicate  brown.  When  done  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  seasoned  with  salt  and  a  bit  of  cayenne 
pepper;  add  to  this  2  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley. 

Baked  Lobster. — Baked  lobsters  are  considered  a  great  delicacy. 
Split  the  lobster  open,  remove  the  stomach,  or  lady,  and  the  intestine. 
Lay  the  2  pieces  in  a  baking  pan.  -  Spread  over  the  top  of  each  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake;  about  40 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  during  the  baking  baste  it  twice  by  pouring 
over  it  a  little  melted  butter.  < 

Baked  Lobster. — II.  Meat  of  2  lobsters,  half  a  can  oftomafpes,  or- 
a  pint  of  fresh  tomatoes  stewed,  a  cup  of  crumbs,  salt,  cayenne  pep- 
per and  onion  to  season,  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg.  Rub  a  baking 
dish  with  an  onion,  melt  a  little  of  the  butter  in  the  bottom,  then  add 
the  other  ingredients  in  layers.  Finish  with  d.  layer  of  crumbs  dotted 
with  butter.  Bake  brown  and  serve  hot.  If  any  is  left  over  put  in 
a  smaller  dish  and  brown  again. 

Baked  Lobster. — III.  Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Add 
a  couple  of  teaspoons  of  flour  and  cook  for  several  minutes,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Thin  to  a  thick  cream  with  milk.  Add  to  this  sauce 
the  chopped-  lobster  meat.  Take  1  good-sized  lobster  or  2  small 
ones;  pick  out  all  the  meat;  chbp  it  fine,  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne*  and 
a  little  lemon  juice.  Put  this  ia  small  baking  dishes,  1  for  each' 
person,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  bread  crumbs.  Bake  a  few  moments 
till  brown. 

Scalloped  Lobster. — Prepare  the  lobster  as  above.  Put  in  one 
large  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  cracker  dust  over  it  and  bake  brown. 
Serve  with  hot  rolls  for  luncheon  or  tea.  , 

Lobster  a  la  Bordelaise. — Open  carefully  1  large  lobster ;  cut  the 
daws  into  4  pieces  each;  split  the  tail  into  halves  and  cut  each,  half 
into  3  pieces.  The  body  and  the  .small  bits  of  Lobster  may  be  served 
at  another  time  for  bisque  lobster  or  for  deviled  lobster.     Put  2 


SHELL  FISH":  89 

tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  saucepan ;  allow  it  to  brown  carefully 
without  burning ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  brown  again;  take 
it  from  the  fire  and  add  a  pint  of  good  chicken  stock ;  stir  constantly 
now  until  it  boils;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  ham  and  1  of; 
onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  cloves;  put  the  sauce  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  and  cook  slowly  for  10  minutes ;  strain ;  add  6  fresh  mush- 
rooms, peeled  and  cut  into  quarters,  and  the  lobster  ;  put  it  over  hot 
water  and  cook  for  30  minutes.  Then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
half  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  or  the  same 
amount  of  lemon  juice. 

Fricassee  Liobster. — Chop  the  meat  of  a  boiled  lobster.  Put  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  mix  over  the  fire  without  browning.  Now  add  1  pint  of 
milk  and  stir  constantly  until  boiling.  Add  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Pour  this  over  the  lobster,  which  should  be 
in  a  double  boiler.  Allow  it  to  stand  over  the  fire  until  the  lobster  is 
thoroughly  hot.  ff"hen  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
and  tablespoonful,  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  it  is  ready  to  serye. 
This  is  delicious. 

liObster  Chops. — Put  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  sauce- 
pan, and  when  it  bubbles  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Stir 
until  the  flour  is^cooked,  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  cream,  or  rich  milk, 
and  2  cupfuls  of  boiled  lobster  (fresh  or  canned),  cut  into  dice.  Stir 
till  scalding  hot,  take  from  fire,  and  when  cool  add  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  sherry  wine,  one-half  grated  nutmeg,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  When  the  mass  is  cold  form  into  chops  that  are 
pointed  at  one  end,  roll  in  beaten  egg;  then  in  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in 
a  wire  basket  in  boiling  fat.  Drain  well ;  put  a  claw  into  the  end  of 
each  chop.   Serve  on  a  folded  napkin.  Garnish  the  dish  with  parsley. 

Canned  Lobster,  To  Cook. — Drain  the  meat  thoroughly,  then 
spread  it  upon  a  platter,  and  pick  out  the  coral.  Rub  the  coral 
smooth  and  mix  it  with  the  braided  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs ; 
mince  the  lobster  meat  fine.  Make  a  batter  of  milk  and  flour  and  1 
or  2  eggs ;  beat  all  the  lumps  out  of  the  flour,  and  add  the  lobster  and 
coral  to  this,  season  with  salt,  red  pepper  and  a  little  lenaon  juice. 
You  need  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  stiff"  enough  to  hold  the 
meat  in  shape.  When  formed  into  round  cakes  and  fried  in  hot  but- 
ter they  are  vejy  nice. 


90  SHELL  FISH. 

Lobster  Chowder. — Take  one  boiled  lobster  weighing  4  pounds 
and  Gut  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Roll  finely  6  crackers,  add  1  cup 
of  butter,  salt  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  To  this  add  3  pints  of 
milk  and  1  of  water.  Stir  in  the  cTiopped  lobster,  boil  two  or  three 
minutes,  and  serve ;  a  smaller  quantity  can  be  made. 

Potted.  Lobster. — This  preparation  must  be  made  of  a  fine  hen 
lobster  whenfuU  of  spawn.  First  boil  the  fish  thoroughly,  then 
allow  it  to  get  cold ;  pick  out  all  the  solid  meat,  pound  it  in  a  mortar, 
and  add  slowly  by  degrees  a  very  little  finely-pounded  mace,  a  good ' 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  While  pounding  throw  in 
1  or  2  small  dice-like  pieces  of  butter ;  when  the  whole  is  well  mixed 
and  beaten  to  the  consistency  of  a  paste,  press  it  down  into  a  pot, 
pour  clarified  butter  over  the  top  and  cover  with  damped  bladder. 
The  spawn  must  be  well  washed,  driedon  a  cloth,  and  pounded  with 
the  meat ;  this  gives  color  to  the  whole. 

Lobster  Mayonalse. — Put  the  lobster  in  a  well-salted,  boiling 
water,  and  cook  20  minutes.  Remove  the  meat,  lea^^Sng  the  shell  as 
nrhole  as  possible;  cut  the  meat  in  small  dice  and  set  away  in  the 
refrigerator.  Make  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs, 
mashed  to  a  paste,  and  add  salt  and  red  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  mus- 
tard, a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  the  same  of  sweet  or  olive  oil ; 
work  this  together,  one  ingredient  at  a  time,  until  it  has  the  con- 
sistency of  gp6d  cream.  Mix  dressing  and  megt  together  by  shaking. 
For  a  set  piece,  fill  the  shell  and  place  on  table.  If  there  is  a  spawn 
attached  to  the  lobster,  cook  it  as  it  is ;  remove  afterwards  and  add  it 
to  the  dressing. 

Luncbeon  Lobster.. — Mince  the  lobster  quite  finely.  Make  a 
salad  dressing  of  oil,  mustard,  salt  and  a  very  little  vinegar,  well 
mixed  with  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  then  thoroughly  stir 
into  the  lobster.  Make  into  round  balls  as  large  as  small  oranges 
and  place  in  the  oven  till  well  heated.  Before  sending  to  the  table 
lay  each  ball  carefully  on  a  lettuce  leaf  and  fill  a  platter  in  this  way. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburgf. — Four  pounds  lobster,  yolks  of  3  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  one-quarte!r  pound  butter,  one-third  cup  cream.  Mash 
yolks  fine  with  2  tablespoons  cream,  rub  butter  smooth  with  1  large 
tablespoon  flour  and  put  in  a  farina  boiler;  when  butter  is  melted 
add  cream,  and  stir  until  scalding  hot ;  add  yolks  and  lobster,  season 
with  salt  and  red  pepper,  and  stir  gently  until  heated  through.  Serve 


SHELL  FISH.  91 

at  once.    Some  like  one-quarter  cup  of  sherry  wine  added  after  cook- 
ing. Canned  lobster  can  be  used.  In  this  case  drain  carefully  from  oil. 

Lobster  Farcie. — Make  a  very  rich  drawn  butter  by  adding  to  a 
full  pint  of  boiling  milk  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls.  of  flour  rubbed 
smooth  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Stir  till  thick,  then  add 
the  meat  of  2  medium-sized  lobsters  chopped  quite  fine,  and  a  can  of 
French  mushrooms  drained  from  the  liquor  and  chopped.  Season 
highly  with  salt,  red  pepper,  mustard  and  mace.  Mix  all  thoroughly 
and  let  it  stand  for  an  hour.  Fill  into  the  shells  of  the  tails  and  the 
backs.  Sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top,  dot  with  butter-  and  bake  a 
nice  brown.  Serve  in  the  shells  and  garnish  with  jjarsley  and  slices 
of  lemon.  Wipe  over  the  outside  of  the  shells  with  olive  oil,  to  help 
preserve  the  color. 

Curried  Lobster. — Cut  up  the  meat  of  a  Jobster  in  small  pieces, 
season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Fry  a  slice  of  pork  brown 
in  a  saucepan,  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Remove  the  pork 
(if  pork  is  used),  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  J3f  curry  powder.  Stir  the  mixture  until  it  is  brown;  then 
gradually  add  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  stock  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  the  lobster  and  cook  six  minutes  longer.  Place  small 
pieces  of  crisp  toast  upon  a  warm  dish  and  pour  the  curry  upon  them. 
Garnish  with  triangles  of  toast  and  bits  of  parsley.  If  the  flavor  of 
onion  be  liked,  fry  a  small  onion  in  the  butter  before  adding  the  flour 
and  curry  powder,  but  in  this  case  strain  the  sauce  before  the  lobster 
is  put  with  it.  To  give  the  dish  an  Eastern  flavor  mix  1  teacupful 
of  hot  boiled  rice  with  1  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  and  turn  over 
the  curry. 

Stewed  Lobster. — Pick  the  meat  from  1  large  or  2  small  lobsters 
in  large  pieces.  Boil  the  shells  for  20  minutes  in  a  pint  of  water  with 
a  blade  of  mace  and  a  few  whole  peppercorns.  Strain  the  liquor. 
Mix  the  coral  and  the  fat  of  the  lobster  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  a  wine  glass  of  white  wine  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemori 
strained.  Put  in  the  pickled  lobster,  boil  it  up  and  serve.  Half  a 
teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  is  an  improvement.  The  wine  can.  be 
omitted. 

Lobster  Cutlets. — Season  2  cupfuls  of  lobster  meat,  cut  in  small 
dice,  with  salt,  white  and,  red  pepper;  bring  to  a  boil  a  cupful  of 
cream  or  chicken  stock,  and  stir  into  this  two  ounces  of  butter  rub- 


92  SHELL  FISH. 

bed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  cook  and  stir  for  a  minute,  and  add 
the  lobster ;  cook  several  minutes  longer,  and  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lenion  juice;  spread  on  a  dish  to  cool, 
and  when  cold  mould  into  cutlets,  roll  in  egg,' then  in  crumbs  and  fry 
in  hot  fat.     Serve  tartar  sauce  with  these  if  wished. 

Lobster  Patties. — Prepare  boiled  lobster  as  in  Bdied  Lobster  IIL 
Put  in  patty  cases ;  cover  with  paste.  Leave  out  a  portion  of  the 
sauce  before  baking.  When  baked,  open,  pour  in  the  heated  sauce 
that  was  left,  and  put  back  the  cover.     Serve  hot. 

Deviled  liobster. — Take  the  meat  from  a  boiled  lobster,  reserving 
the  coral.  /Season  highly  with  mustard,  cayenne,  salt,  and  some  kind 
of  table  sauce;  stew,  put  in  a  covered  saucepan,  with  just  hot  water 
enough  to  keep  from  burning.  Rub  the  coral  snTooth^  moisten  ykh 
vinegar  until  thin  enough  to  pour  easily,  and  stir  into  the  saucepan. 
Let  boil  up  once ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  let  boil  up  again 
and  serve. 

Cauat>es  of  Lolbster.— See  Canapes  of  Crab. 

Clams. 

To  Open  Clam  SbeUjs. — Wash  the  shells  and  stand  them  on  the 
hinge  end  in  a  bake  pan.  Put  a  few;  spoonsful  of  boiling  water  in  the 
panx;  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  until  the  shells  part,  when  th^^y  may  be 
easily  ^opened  and  cooked  as  required.  ^ 

Clam  Chowder. — For  clam  chowder  cut  the  soft  parts  from  a 
quart  of  hard-shell  clams  of  the  large,  te^ider  variety  called  in  some 
sections  "  cherry*-stones."  Chop  fine  the  hard  parts,  put  them  over 
the  fire  with  water  to  cover  and  cooTc  till  tender.  Meantime  make 
ready  2  onions,  peeled  and  sliced,  6  potatoes  peeled  and  diced,  a  pint 
of  tomatoes  peeled  and.  cut  small,  and  half  a  pound  of  pilot  biscuit 
or  cl-ackers  soaked  in  milk.  When  the  chopped  clams  are  tender 
take  them  out  of  the  kettle  and  put  in  the  above  ingredients  in  layers,' 
adding  also  the  soft  parts  of  the  clams  as  well  as  the  boiled  portions, 
and  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  thyme,  savory  and  sweet 
marjoram;  entirely  cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook  until  potatoes 
and  onions  are  done.— 

Clam  Chowder. — II.  One  quart  clams ;  strain  and  save  the  liquor; 
cut  off  the  black  part,  or  stomach,  and  do  not  use ;  chop  the  remain- 
ing hard  parts  rather  small ;  fry  from  one  large  slice  fat  salt  pork  cut 


SHELL  FISH.  93 

intQ  dice  with  half  onion  sliced,  and  when  well  done  strain  into  kettle 
and  add  clam  liquor,  2  cups  sliced  .(or  cut  into  quarters)  potatoes; 
cover  with  hot  water,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  cools:  about  20 
minutes  J  add  the  chopped  clams  and  a  cup  of  cream  if  you  have  it, 
and  then  thin  down  with  milk  till  you  have  about  3  quarts  in  all,  or 
till  it  tastes  right,  not1:oo  "  clammy ;"  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  serve' 
very  hot  in  hot  soup  plates  with  pilot  bread  or  crackers. 

Coney  Island  Chowder,  with  Thyme. — Take  3  middle-size 
potatoes,  cut  up  as  small  as  you  like,  put  in  3  piftts  of  water  aiid  boil 
10  minutes;  put  in  1  quart  of  xlams  and  1  cup  of  canned  tomatoes, 
boil  five  minutes  longer,  then  skim ;  now  take  a  slice  of  salt  pork 
and  cut  in  dice,  fry  out  and  put  scraps  in  chowder;  in  the  remaining 
fat  fry  out  2  large  sliced  onions,  light  brown;  turn  all  in  chowder 
and  boil  10  minutes  longer;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  thyme,  and,  just  before  serving,  break  in  common 
crackers. 

Canned  Clam  Chowder. — Make  after  any  of  the  above  rules 
from  canned  clams.  If  they  are  perfectly  fresh,  the  result  will  be  sat- 
isfactory. 

Cream  of  Clams. — One  pirit  of  water,  1  pint  of  cream,.  1  quart  of 
milk,  about  50  large  clams,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flpur,  1  }4  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  cayenne,  " 
1  teaspoonful  onion  juice,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-minced  onion 
and  a  slight  grating  of  niitmeg.  Wash  the  clams,  and,  after  putting 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  the  water,  place  on  the  stove.  When  the 
liquid  begins  to  boil  skim  it.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  then  strain  the 
liquid  into  a  bowl.  Put  the  clams  in  the  chopping-bowl,  and  mash 
as  fine  as  you  can ;  then  rub  through  a  sieve  as  much  of  the  mass  as 
possible.  Put  the  strained  liquid  and  the  clams  on  the  stove  to  keep 
hot.  Beat  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  gradually  pour  the  hot 
milk  upon  the  mixture.  Return  it  to  the  doubie-boiler,  and  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Add  the  salt,  pepper,,  nutmeg,  onion-juice,  meat- 
extract,  clams  and  liquor,  besides  the  pint  of  hot  cream.  Cook  for  5 
minutes,  then  serve. 

Cream  of  Oys.ters  and  Clams. — Wash  and  chop  1  pint  of  oys- 
ters; also  wash  1  pint  of  clams;  remove  the  soft  part,  and  save  to 
add  to  the  soup  at  the  last.  Chop  the  hard  parts,  heat  slowly  the 
chopped  oysters  and  clams  to  the  boiling  point,  and  strain  through  a 


94  SHELL  FISH. 

cheese-cloth.  Scald  a  quart  of  iflilk  with  a  slice  of  onion,  a  blade  of 
mace,'  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf.  ■  Remove  the  season- 
,  ings,  and  add  the  milk  to  the  stock,  and  thicken  with  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  each  of  butter  and  flower,  cooked  together.  Season  with  salt 
^nd  pepper;  add  the  soft  part  of  the  clams,  cook  for  one  minute,  and» 
serve.  A  grating  of  nutmeg  may  take  the  place  of  the.  mace,  if  pre- 
ferred. 

Fried  Soft-Shell  Clams. — Pirocure  freshly-opened  soft-shell  clams, 
remove  them  with  a  f6rk  out  of  their  liquor  on  to  a  soft  towel,  and, 
after  drying,  lay  the  clams  on  a  dish,  dust  over  with  flour;  then  take 
each  one  separately  on  a  fork,  dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in 
cracker-dust;  lay  them  thus  prepared  on  a  clean  board  for  thirty 
minutes  to  dry.  Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of  lard  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan over  the  fire.  When  hot  put  in  as  many  clams  as- will  con- 
veniently fill  the  pan.  Fry  light-brown,  first  on  one  side,  then  on 
the  other;'  fry  the  remainder  the  same  way,  using  more  lard  and  but- 
ter if  necessary.  Arrange  them  nicely  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with 
biscuits  and  butter,  or  buttered  toast. 

Fried  Clams. — II.  Take  large  clams  in  the  shell  (a  peck  will 
make  about  two  quarts  when  removed  from  shell).  Slit  the  necks 
lengthwise  on  one  side,  but  do  not  cut  or  break  the  clam;  keep  the 
clam  as  near  perfect  as  possible;  then  wash  three  or  four  times  in 
cold  water;  change  water  as  often;  stir  with  the  hand.  "The^secret 
is  in  the  washing."  Then  roll  in  corn  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  as  you 
Would  doughnuts.  If  turned  a  few  times  while  frying  they  will  not 
stick  together.  Do  not  put  too  many  in  the  fat  at.  once.  If  donft- 
right  they  will  stand  out  nice  and  round,  and  look  more  like  dough- 
nuts than  clams.  Let  the  fat  drain  off  a  little  when  removing  from 
fat;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt;  good  hot  or  cold;  they  should  not  be 
all  knotted  up  in  shapeless  bunches  when  done ;  if  they  are,  it  is  be- 
cause they  are  not  washed. enough;  have  the  fat  hot. 

ScaUoped  Clams. — Prepare  25  hard  clams ;  mix  in  a  dish  one-half 
pint  of  cracker  crumbs  moistened  with  one-half  cup  of  warm  milk 
and  one-fourth  cup  of  clam  liquor.  Add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of-  melted  butter  and  the  clams  chopped  fine.  Season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  a  dozen  clam-shells  with  this  mix- 
ture, sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs  and  brown.  Or  put  in  one  large 
baking-dish  and  Cover  with  crumbs  and  brown. 


SHELL  FISH.  95 

Scalloped  Clams. — II.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  earthen  baking- 
pan,  little  salt  and  butter,  next  a  kyer  of  clams  chopped,  then  a  layqr 
of  crackers,  a  little  salt  and  butter;  repeat  from  potatoes  until  dish  is 
full  with  crackers  on  top.  Fill  with  milk  enough  to  cover,  cover 
tight  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  uncover  for  15  minutes. 

"  Clam  Bake  "  (inland). — This  sort  of  a  clam  bake  can  be  had 
in  February  as  well  as  August,  and  can  be  prepared  in  one's  kitchen. 
The  main  article  is  a  large,  new  tin  wash-boiler.  The  ingredients 
.may  be  all  used,  or  such  left  out  as  are  inconvenient  to  obtain.  A 
large  party  can  be  served  and  the  repast  be  partaken  of  with  more 
comfort  than  on  a  windy  beach.  In  the  bottom  of  the  boiler  place  a 
layer  of  soft'br  hard  clams,  or,  better  still,  some  of  both.  A  few  of 
the  very  large  ones  are  good  to  jgive  more  of  a  clam  flavor  to  the 
entire  "bake."  Put  in  the  clam  liquor  and  one  large  cupful  of  water. 
Then  lay  over  them  a  large  piece  of  new  muslin  (well  washed).  This 
is  to  take  the  place  of  the  sea-weed  used  in  the  out-of-door  clam 
bakes,  and  answers  the  purpose  completely.  On  the  top  of  this  cloth 
place  a  layer  of  potatoes,  either  sweet,  or  white,  or  both.  Then 
another  cloth,  and  theji  a  layer  of  corn  on  the  cob.  In  summer  fresh 
corn  with  a  few  layers  of  husk  left  on,  and  in  winter  take  the  corn 
that  is  canned  on  the  cob^  Another  layer  of  the  cloth.  The  next 
ingredient  is  a  layer  of  chickens  cut  up  into  quarters  (spring,  or  very 
tender  fowls  must  be  used).  Cut  them  in  quarters/  Another  layer  of 
cloth.  Then  a  layer  of  lobsters  which  have  been  parboiled.  Do  not 
crack  the  shells  until  time  to  serve  them.  Another  layer  of  cloth, 
and  then  a  layer  of  soft  crabs,  if  they  are  to  be  had.  If  not,  have  hard 
crabs,  or  leave  this  layer  out.  Cloth  again,  and  then  the  fish ; '  sheeps- 
head,  blue  fish,  or  indeed  almost  any  kind.  Cut  in  pieces,  and  cover 
with  the  last  layer  of  cloth.  Top  the  whole  off  with  a  layer  of  little 
oysters,  preferably  Blue  Points.  Then  put  on  the  cover  of  the  wash- 
boiler.  Set  the  boiler  on  the  range  over  a  good  fire  and  leave  it  there 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  It  will  do  all  the  rest  itself  It  can  even  be 
done  on  a  gas  range.  All  that  is  wanted  is  heat.  The  steam  from 
the  clam  juice  will  cook  everything  thoroughly.  While  it  is  steaming 
prepare  the  sauce.  This  is  a  very  important  part  of  the  bake  Make 
plenty  of  it,  for  the  same  sauce  is  served  liberally  with  each  course. 

The  Sauce :  This  is  how  to  make  it : — Melt  1  pound  of  butter,  but 
be  very  careful  not  to  overmelt  it,  for  if  it  becomes  a  liquid  the  other 


96  SHELL  FISH. 

ingredients  will  not  blend  with  it.  Let  it  get  just  to  the  consistency 
of  molasses,  as  no  flour  is  used  for  a  thickening.  Add  2  tablespootl- 
fuls  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  2 
tablespoonfuis  of  tomato  sauce,  haff  a  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper  and 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  pepper  sauce.  In  serving,  take  out  the  courses 
as  they  come  ;  first,  if  you  wish,  serving  the  broth,  then  the  steamed 
oysters,  then  the  fish,  and  so  on.  Leave  the  boiler  onthe  range  all 
the  time,  so  that  the  chicken  and  lobsters  may  be  cooking  while  the 
meal  is  going  on.  ■  This  will  be  found  a  nevelty  for  an  informal  din- 
ner party.  The  number  of  courses  here  given  is  7,  but  they  may  be 
increased  or  diminished  as  wished. 

Roast  Clams  in  the  Shell. — Roast  in  a  pan  over  a  hot  fire,  or  in 
a  hot  oven,  or,  at  a  "  Clam  Bake,"  on  hot  stones.  When  they  open 
empty  the  juice  into  a  saucepan;  add  the  clams  with  butter,  pepper 
and  a  very  little  salt.  v 

Clam  Pancakes. — Take  a  pint  of  the  chopped  clams ;  stir  into 
them  a  beaten  egg  and  add  only  sifted  flour  enough  to  stick  them 
together  ;  drop  them  by  the  spoonful  into  the  frying  pan,  which  has 
been  well  greased  with  an  equal  quantity  of  lard,  and  butter,  and  cook 
them  as  pancakes  are  usually  cooked. 

Deviled  Clams.— Wash  them,  open  with  a  knife,  chop  fine,  stew 
in  a  little  of  the  juice  a  few  minutes;  make  a  dressing  of  hard-bo.iled 
eggs,  chopped;  stale  br^ad  crumbs,  pepper,  a  little  salt,  a  little  jhus* 
tard;  wet  with  a  little  cream  and  mix  well  together,  then  return,  to  the. 
half-shells,  sprinkle  cracker  dust  on  the  clams,  put  a  couple  of  allspice 
on  top  of  each,  and  butter,  which  makes  them  brown.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  20  minutes  and  send  to  the  table  on  the  open  shells.  '• 

Steamed.  Clams,; — Put  half  peck  of  clams  (first  scrubbing  the 
shells  well)  into  a  boiler  with  about  1  pint  of  water.  When  the  shells 
open  wide,  remove  the  clams  and  with  scissors  cut  off  the  heads  and 
cut  each  clam  in  two  or  three  pieces ;  now  take  a  half  pint  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  and  the  same  amount  of  milk,  put  on 
stove,  and  when  hot  thicken  with  flour  to  make  nice  smooth  gravy. 
Add  a  little  butter.  Toast  6  slices  of  bread  brown  on  both  sides,  lay 
in  platter,  spread  on  the  clams,  then  turn  on  hot  gravy  and  serve. 

;Baked  Stuffed  Clams. — One-half  peck  of  fair-sized  clams  (white 
shells  preferred).  Shell  them  and  clean  well  in  cold  water,  make  a 
stuffing  of  common  crackers,  well  seasoned  with  sage;  save  shells. 


SHELL  FISH.;  9Y 

well  washed ;  place  a  thin  layer  of  stuffing  on  shell,  then  from  1  lo  2 
clams ;  then  another  thin  layer  of  stuffing,  covering  with  other  shell. 
Do  the  same  until  all  the  clams  are  thus  stuffed.  Then  place  them  in 
a  common  baking  pan ;  put  into  a  very  hot  oven  and  bake  16  to  20 
minutes,  when  they  will  be  done,  taking  care  not  to  let  the  shell  turn 
red,  as  they  will  be  spoiled  then.  The  liquid  from  clams  should  be 
boiled  and  adulterated,  three-fouf^ths  water  to  one-fourth  clam  liquid ; 
served  with  the  stuffed  clams  it  makes  a  delicious  drink,  seasoned 
with  celery  salt. 

Clams  on  Toast. — ^Wash  the  clams  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  with 
just  enough  water  to  prevent  scorching.  Heat  them  until  the  shells 
open.  Remove  the  clams,  being  careful  to  save  the  liquor,  and  heat 
them  in  part  of  the  liquor,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  If 
too  strong,  put  in  half  as  much  cream  or  rich  milk.  Toast  bread 
carefully,  moisten  in  the  remainder  of  the  clam  liquor,  previously 
heated  and  slightly  seasoned  for  the  purpose ;  butter  liberally  and 
pour  the  clams  over  this.  Before  the  milk  is  added  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  boil  them  gently  ibr  a  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Clam  Stew  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner,  using  all  of  the 
clam  liquor  and  some  water.  Thicker,  slightly  and  use  a  goodly 
quantity  of  butter. 

Orabs. 

Scalloped  Crabs. — ^Wash  the  crabs  free  from  sand  and  put  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  throwing  in  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  20  minutes 
to  half  an  hour ;  when  done  take  from  the  water,  pick  out  all  the 
meat,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  shells.  To  every  pint  of  meat 
put  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  taste,  and  if  not  enough  to  suit,  as  tastes 
differ  widely,  more  is  easily  added.  Grate  a  very  little  nutmeg  into 
the  meat,  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  cracker  (rolled),  or  fine  bread 
crumbs,  1  egg  well  beaten  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Mix  all 
thoroughly  together,  wash  the  crab  shells  clean,  and  fill  each  one  quite 
full  of  the  mixture.  Sprinkle  fine  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  over  the 
top  and  set  in%the  oven  to  brown  nicely.  It  will  take  but  a  few  min- 
utes.    Send  to  the  table  hot. 

Deviled  Crabs. — Twelve  large  crabs ;  one-half  pint  of  cream ;  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  one-fourth  grated  nutmeg;  4  egg  yolks, 
boiled  hard;  1  tablespoonful  each  of  salt,  butter  and  chopped pars- 

COOK— 7 


98  SHELL  FISH. 

ley ;  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste,  and  one-haff  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 
Put  the  crabs  in  warm  water ;  add  the  salt  and  put  the  kettle  over  a 
brisk  fire.  Boil  30  minutes.  Take  up  and  drain ;  break  off  all  claws; 
separate  the  shells ;  remove  the  spongy  fingers  and  the  stomach, 
which  is  found  under  the  head..  Pick  out  all  the  meat.  Put  the  cream 
on  to  boil,  rub  butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  ta  the  boiling 
cream ;  stir  and  cook  2  minute's.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  crab 
meat,  the  egg  yolks  mashed  fine,  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt,  mustard  and 
cayenne.  Clear  the  upper  shells  q{  the  crabs,  fill  them  with  the  mix- 
ture, brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  in 
a  quick  oven  to  brown ;  or  better,  put  them  in  a  frying  basket  and 
plunge  into  boiling  lard  until  a  nice  brown. 

Crabs  on  Toast. — Heat  12  ounces  of  crab  meat  in  a  good  and 
well-seasoned  sauce ;  spread  this  mixture  on  squares  of  toast,  sprinkle 
with  grated  Parmesan,  dot  with  butter  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  three 
minutes.     Serve  on  a  hot  napkin,  garnished  with  parsley. 

-Fried  Soft-slielled  Crabs. — Wash  the  crabs,  remove  the  lungs 
from  both  sides  and  dip  into  milk,  then  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  plenty 
of  very  hot  frying  fat.  When  of  a  fine  color  drain  and  dress  on  a 
folded  napkin,  and  on  top  arrange  a  bunch  of  fresh  parsley. 

Hot  Crab. — Pick  the  meat  out  of  the  crab,  clear  the  shell  from 
the  head.  Put  the  meat  together  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg 
and  butter,  a  few  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  vinegar,  into  the  shell 
again.  Place  in  the  oven  and  let  heat  through,  remove,  and  brown 
by  holding  a  hot  shovel  over  it.  A  crab  shell  will  hold  the  meat  of 
two  crabs. 

Stewed  Crabs. — Take  out  the  meat  from  the  shell,  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  mace,  or  a  grating  of 
nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  water,  dredge  with  flour  and  let  simmer^ 
five  minutes  over  a  slow  fire.  Serve  hot.  Garnish  the  dish  with  the 
claws  laid  around  it.  The  spongy  substance  from  the  sides  should 
be  taken  off;  also  the  sand  bag. 

Sauted  Crabs  In  Butter. — After  the  crabs  have  been  well  washed 
remove  the  lungs  from  each  side,  roll  them  in  flour  and  saute  them  in 
very  hot,  purified  butter ;  when  done  and  of  a  fine  color,  dress,  and 
to  the  butter  in  which  they  were  cooked  add  some  lemon  juice;  strain 
this  butter  through  a  strainer  over  the  crabs  and  strew  chopped  pars- 
ley over  therti. 


SHELL  FISH.  99 

Soft-shell  Crabs  a  la  Maltre  d'Hotel. — Clean, -wash  well  and 
wipe  dry  some  soft-shell  crabs ;  brush  over  with  melted  butter  or  oil, 
season  with  one  even  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one-half  even  teaspoonful 
of  pepper ;  put  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  over  the  clear  fire  about 
five  minutes  on  each  side.  Serve  at  once  on  a  hot  dish  on  buttered 
toast,  with  one  ounce  maitre  d' hotel  butter  spread  over.  In  place  of 
toast  six  small  slices  of  bread  fried  in  butter  may  be  laid  under  the 
crabs.  '  , 

Canapes  of  Crab. — Drop  6  live  hard-shell  crabs  into  boiling 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  salt;  boil  15  minutes;  then  remove. 
When  cold  enough  to  handle  take  oiF  the  upper  shell,  extract  all  the 
meat ;  crack  the  claws  and  pick  out  the  meat ;  season  with  one  even 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper;  then  measure — there 
should  be  a  good  pint  of  crab  meat.  Place  a  small  saucepan,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  over  the  fire ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  fine 
chopped  white  onions,  cook  5  minutes  witliout  browning ;  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  aild  cook  2  minutes;  add  half  a  cupful 
of  white  broth,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then  add  1  pint  of  crab 
meat,  stir  and  cook  8  minutes.  Cut  6  slices  from  a  long-shaped  loaf 
of  baker's  bread,  cut  off  the  crust,  and  fry  light  brown  in  butter  on 
both  sides.  Spread  the  crab  mixture  in  equal  portions  over  the  bread 
and  set  aside.  In  the  mean  time  melt  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  cook  and  stir  a  few  minutes ;  remove  from 
the  fire,  add  8  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese ;  mix  the  ingredients 
and  form  into  round  balls  of  equal  size.  Place  them  in  the  center  of 
the  canapes,  pressing  a  little  in  the  center.  Put  the  canapes  into  a 
baking  pan  and  bake  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven,  which  will  take  about 
ten  minutes ;  then  remove ;  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  at 
once.  Parmesan  cheese  is  preferred  by  many  rather  than  American. 
Canapes  of  lobster  are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Oyster  Grabs, 

Fricassee  of  Oyster  Crabs. — These  tiny  crabs,  found  now  and 
then  in  stewed  oysters,  are  now  sold  by  themsejves,  and  are  nearly 
as  great  a  luxury  as  terrapin,  about  $3  a  quart.  For  a  quart,  melt  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  add  half  a  small  minced 
onion,  half  a  bay  leaf,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  grated 
autmeg,  with  1  of  pepper.    When  the  onion  has  fried  a  little,  add  a 


100  SHELL  FISH. 

tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  rich  white  broth, 
and  let  all  simmer  slowly  for  20  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  adding  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  add  to  the  broth,  which  must 
not  boil  after  this,  but  be  kept  at  boiling  point ;  add  now  the  crabs, 
and  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  5  minutes ;  then  stir  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  a  large  one  of  butter  cut  in  little  bits, 
and  serve  very  hot  with  thin  brown  bread  and  butter. 

Oyster  Cralb  Ple.-^Take  2  quarts  of  fresh  crabs  and  some  of  the 
juice ;  set  on  range  to  get  warm,  but  not.to  cook.  Rub  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  smoothly  together  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire.  Have  a  pint  of  cream  ready  to  add  to  the 
paste  and  pour  in  gradually  while  stirring  to  keep  it  smooth.  Season 
with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  While  this  is  preparing  have  a  baking- 
pan  lined  with  puff  paste  in  oven  baking.  Put  crabs  and  sauce 
together  in  the  crust.  Then  cover  with  another  layer  of  pastry,  wet 
the  top  with  milk  and  bake  twenty  niinutes,  or  until  the  crust  is  a 
beautiful  brown.  Serve  with  a  cream  and  lemon  sauce,  or  %  little 
lemon  juice  in  the  hot  creaim. 

Oyster  Crabs  on  Toast. — ^These  crabs  make  a  delightful  luncheon 
dish,  stirred  in  a  hot  saucepan  with  a  little  butter  and  cream,  and 
served  on  buttered  toast. 

Deviled  Oyster  Crabs,  in  Shells. — Take  some  nicely-washed, 
mediuin-sized  and  deep  oyster  shells,  setting  them  on  a  straight 
baking-shjeet.  Drain  the  oyster  crabs,  season  them  with  salt,  black 
pepper  and  red  pepper  and  fill  the  large  shells.  Strew  over  them 
bread-crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  sprinkle  with  butter  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven,  serving  the  shells  as  soon  as  done.     No  saucfe"  is  used. 

Scallops. 

Fried  Scallops. — ^^Pick  over  and  wash  quickly,  dr^in  between 
towels,  season  fine  cracker  crumbs  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  the 
scallops  in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  crumbs.  Fry 
in  smoking  hot  fat  and  serve  at  once.  A  more  simple  way,  which  I 
often  use,  is  to  roll  them  in  Indian  meal  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Scallops  in  Shells. — Drain  a  pint  of  them  and  toss  them,  withJL, 
tablespoonfvil  of  butter,  into  a  saucepan,  letting  them  brown  lightly 
for  about  ten  minutes.    Then  take  them  up  and  chop  them  fine. 
Melt  a  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  small  onion  mfnced 


SHELL  FISH.  101 

fine  and  brown  it  lightly.  Then  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour 
and  stir  in  slowly  a  cupful  of  the  liquid  drained  from  the  scallops. 
Season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  little 
white  pepper.  Mix  with  the  chopped  scallops  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
bread-crumbs  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  cook  all  together  for 
three  minutes.  Then  fill  the  shells,  sprinkle  fine  bread-crumbs  over 
the  top,  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  set  them  in  a  hot  oven  to 
brown  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  them  on  a  platter  with  a  garnish  of 
green.  One  whole  egg  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  yolks,  but  is  not 
quite  as  nice. 

Scallops  in  Batter. — Save  the  liquor  that  is  in  them,  and  put  the 
scallops  in  a  colander  and  pour  boiling  water  on  them  to  cook  therri 
through  a  little.  Then  take  1  pint  of  flour,  1  egg,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  the  liquor  saved 
from  the  scallops  and  mix  the  batter.  After  it  is  all  mixed  dip  the 
scallops  in  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  This  recipe  is  for  one  pint 
of  scallops. 

Terrapin  or  Water  Turtle. 

Stewed  Terrapin  with  Cream; — One-half  pint  thick  cream,  6 
eggs,  half  pound  butter,  quarter  cupful  sherry  or  madeira,  quarter 
teaspoonful  mace ;  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Put  terrapins  alive  into 
boiling  water  and  boil  10  or  15  minutes,  or  until  you  can  pull  off  tha 
outer  skin  and  toe  nails.  Now  put  them  back  in  fresh  boiling  water, 
add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  boil  until  the  shells  part  easily 
and  the  flesh  on  the  legs  is  tender.  Take  out,  remove  uhder  shells 
until  cool  enough  to  handle.  Then  take  them  out  of  the  upper  shells 
carefully,  remove  sandbag  and  intestines,  the  gall  sacks,  which  are 
imbedded  in  one  lobe  of  the  liver.  In  removing  gall  sack  do  not 
break  it,  as  it  would  spoil  the  terrapin.  Break  terrapin  into  small 
pieces.  Now  add  liver,  broken  up,  and  all  eggs  found  in  terrapin, 
put  into  stew  pan  with  the  juice  or  liquor  it  has  given  out  while  being 
cut.  Roll  the  butter  in  flour,  add  to  terrapin  and  stand  on  moderate 
fire  until  heated.  Boil  the  6  eggs  for  15  minutes,  mash  yolks  to 
smooth  paste  into  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  wine.  Then  add  this,  the 
cream  and  seasoning  to  the  terrapin,  let  it  boil  up  once,  take  from 
fire,  add  wine  and  serve.  It  must  never  be  boiled  after  adding  the 
wine.  Cooks  do  not  use  the  intestines  nowadays ;  they  are  not  con* 
sidered  fit  to  eat.    Lemon  jaice  can  be  used  instead  of  wine. 


102  SHELL  FISH. 

Stewed  Diamond  Back. — Remove  bottom  shell,  after  cutting  his 
head  off  and  bleeding  him ;  trim"  all  the  meat  from  the  top  shell 
neatly  and  throw  whole  pieces  into  salted  water.  Cut  up  neatly  and 
put  on  to  cook  in  hot  water,  just  enough  to  cover ;  cook  till  done. 
Almost  20  minutes  before  it  is  done  put  in  about  2  dozen  small  new 
potatoes  and  1  of  shelot  roots;  add  half  a  lemon,  1  glass  of  sherry, 
the  juice  of  1  tomato  and  2  ounces  of  butter.  Thicken  as  cream; 
remove  the  lemon  in  10  minutes.     For  a  small  party  serve  in  shell. 

Baked  Turtle. — Scrape  the  shell  from  which  the  cooked  meat 
has  been  removed,  and  wash  well  in  cold  water.  Mince  the  meat  as 
fine  as  possible  with  a  hash  choppen  Add  to  it  half  an  onion,  the 
hard  boiled  yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Have  ready  some  cracker  crumbs  rolled  fine, 
moisten  the  mixture  with  some  of  the  liquid  the  turtle  has  been 
boiled  in.  Knead  into  it  the  cracker  crumbs  and  press  whole  into 
the  turtle  shell.  Put  in  hot  oven  and  bake  quickly,  garnishing  with 
hard-boil^  turtle's  eggs. 

Turtle  Soup. — Take  3  or  4  green  onions,  a  bunch  of  seasoning 
herbs,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  1  quart  of  very  strong  veal  brpth, 

1  pound  of  butter,  flour,  lemon  juice,  Madeira  wine  and  a  turtle. 
Cut  up  the  meat  and  let  the  bones  and  other  parts  intended  for  the 
soup  stew  6  hours,  the  onions  and  seasoning  being  chopped  very 
fine.  Use  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  the  liquor  to  the 
veal  broth ;  put  in  the  butter,  with  enough  flour  to  thicken  suffi- 
ciently; stir  it  over  the  fire  10  minutes  and  add  lemon  juice  and 
Madeira  to  taste.  The  coarse  white  parts  will  require  cooking  2 
hours.  The  green  fat  should  be  cut  into  pieces  1^  inches  square 
and  simmered  in  the  soup  for  an  .hour.  Force-meat  balls  and  eggs 
are  served  in  the  soup.  Make  these  of  the  vealy  part  of  the  turtle, 
mioced  fine  with  half  a  beaten  anchovy,  a  piece  of  celery  boiled 
tender,  and  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg.     Mix  them  up  well  with 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crunibs ;  season  with  cayenne  pepper,  mace, 
salt  and  white  pepper;  moisten  with  a  little  oyster  liquor,  a  lump  of 
butter  and  a  well-beaten  egg ;  roll  them  into  balls  and  fry  in  butter. 


"  This  dish  of  meat  is  too  good  for  any  but 
anglers,  or  very  honest  men." — Walton. 

Dress  fish  as  quickly  as  possible  after  they 
are  taken  from  the  water.  Wash  and  rub  the  inside  with  salt.  Do 
not  soak  in  water  long,  as  the  flesh  is  apt  to  become  flabby.  Lard 
and  butter  in  equal  quantities  is  better  for  frying  fish  than  butter 
alone.  Frozen  fish  should  be  put  in  cold  water  to  draw  out  the  frost. 
Add  a  little  vinegar  to  the  water  in  which  salt  fish  is  soaked.  Soak 
salt  fish"  in  sour  milk  to  freshen  them.  Pour  vinegar  over  fresh  fish 
to  make  the  scales  come  off"  easily. 

Fish  can  be  improved  in  flavor  by  rubbing  with  vinegar  or  adding 
one-half  cup  of  vinegar  to  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  Fish,  when 
prepared  for  the  table,  should  never  be  laid  double,  if  it  can  be  avoided, 
as  the  steam  from  the  under  layer  makes  the  upper  layer  so  soft  as  to 
brea:k  easily.  They  must  be  cooked  until  the  flesh  separates  easily 
from  the  bones.  By  running  a  knife  in  a  little  way,  say  under  the  fins, 
so  as  not  to  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  fish,  this  can  be  judged  of. 

All  kinds  of  cooked  fish  can  be  served  with  salads.  Lettuce  is 
the  best  green  salad  to  serve,  but  all  cooked  and  cold  vegetables  go 
well  with  fish.  Whatever  the  method  of  cooking,  apply  great  heat 
at  first  to  sear  the  outside  and  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juices  except 
for  a  soup  or  chowder. 

To  scale  a  fish  hold  it  by  the  tail  under  water  (which  la 
salted)  in  a  deep  pan, 'and  with  a  small,  sharp  knife  held  slant- 
ing, scrape  the  scales  from  the  tail  toward  the  head.  The  scales 
will  come  off"  easier  under  water  and  will  fall  to  the  bottom  ol 
.  the  pan  instead  of  flying  about.  Wipe  the  fish  on  an  old  soft  towel 
and  lay  it  on  a  board  or  a  large  platter.  Cut  off"  the  head  and  tail, 
and  if  it  is  to  be  broiled  split  it  down  the  back.  This  is  done  by 
passing  the  knife  one  side  of  and  close  to  the  backbone,  from  the  head 
to  the  tail,  cutting  carefully  until  the  entrails  are  reached.    Remove 

103 


104  FISH. 

them  carefully  and  scrape  the  inside  of  the  fish  and  all  the  blood  from 
the  backbone.-  If  preferred,  the  backbone  can  be  removed  entirely. 
Wipe  the  fish  inside  and  out  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  salted  water, 
lay  it  on  a  dish  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted.  For  baking 
or  frying,  the  fish  may  be  opened  down  the  body. 

The  only  secret  in  boning  is  to  hold  the  knife  close  to  the  bone, 
scraping  away  eveiy  particle  of  flesh.  ,  To  remove  the  skin,  loosen  it 


Fish  Scaler. 

with  a  knife  around  the  head  and  pull  quickly  toward  the  tail.  If  the 
fingers  are  dipped  in  salt  occasionally  it  will  give  them  a  firmer  grip 
on  the  slipping  fish.  This  will  be  done  in  the  market  if  the  purchaser 
so  directs.  In  freshening  salt  fish  lay  it  in  the  water  skin-side  up. 
Baking, '  boiling,  frying,  broiling  and  steaming  are  the  standard 
methods  of  cooking  fish. 

f-'  Broiled  Fish. — Broiling  is  assuredly  the  oldest  method  of  cook" 
ing,  and  no  new  one  surpasses  it.  The  skin  of  small  or  thin  fish 
serves  to  keep  them  in  shape.  Slices  of  halibut  or  salmon  may  be 
broiled  whole,  or  the  skin  and  bone  removed  and  cut  in  fillets.  Clean 
and  split  the  fish.  Rub  a  double  broiler  with  suet,  lay  the'fish,  flesh 
eide  down,  on  and  set  over  the  fire ;  iurn  until  both  sides  are  brown. 
When  done  take  up  carefully  on  a  heated  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  spi'ead  with  butter  and  serve. 

Boiled  Fish. — This  is  thought  to  be  the  most  delicate  of  all,  but  on 
account  of  its  slippery  skin  and  gelatinous  consistency,  it  is  hard  to 
boil  it  so  that  its  appearance  will  gratify  the  eye.  To  attain  the  best 
results,  several  rules  are  to  be  remembered  and  observed.  First,  the 
fish  must  be  weighed.  Second,  it  must' be  carefully  bound  up  in  thin 
muslin ;  coarse  cheese-cloth  is  excellent  for  the  purpose.  Third,  the 
kettle  must  be  large  enough  to  accbmmodate  the  fish  easily,  and  the 
water  must  be  well  salted  first,  or  the  flakes  will  have  a  tendency  to 
separate.  Fourth,  the  water  must  be  at  boiling  point,  but  not  boiling 
when  the  fish  is  put  in,  and  should  be  in  sufficient  quantity  to  fully 
coyer  it,  but  not  in  excess,  or  the  flavor  will  be  washed  away.    Fol 


FISH. 


lOS 


Fish  Kettle. 


a  large  fish,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  to  the  water.  Fifth, 
keep  the  water  boiling,  and  allow  6  minutes  to  each  pound,  and  if  the 
fish  is  large,  add  6  minutes  to  the  computation ;  for  instance,  make  the 
36  minutes  due  a  6-pounder  42  minutes.  Never  stab  a  fish  with  a 
fork  or  skewer  to  find  if  it  is 
done,  but  see  that  the  water 
boils  steadily  and  does  not 
stop  for  an  instant.  If  the 
water  boils  turbulently,  the 
kettle  must  be  moved  to  a 
part  of  the  stove  where  it  can 
have  a  less  fierce  heat,  as  too 
much  agitation  of  the  water 
will  cause  it  to  crumble.  A 
fish  boiler  is  best  to  use.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  and  hard-boiled 
^gs  sliced.  Garnish  also  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemons.  Some 
like  tomato  catsup  poured  over  the  fish,  without  the  eggs  and  lemons. 
Frying  Fish. — If  the  fish  is  large,  cut  into  small  pieces ;  if  it  is 
small,  split  it  in  two  pieces,  and  wipe  dry  on  a  clean  tea  towel.  Season 
.  with  pepper  and  salt  and  dip  the  pieces  in  corn  meal,  then  fry  a  nice 
brown  in  boiling  lard.  Be  sure  to  have  a  good  fire,  bright  and  hot 
and  have  the  lard  boiling.  Those  kinds  which  are  liable  to  break 
must  be  dipped  in  beaten  eggs,  then  into  crumbs.  The  fat  in  which 
fish  is  fried,  whether  it  be  lard,  dripping,  oil,  or  butter,  must  be  very 
hot.  All  fried  fish  should  be  decorated  with  fried  or  raw  parsley. 
For  frying  the  fat  should  be  hot  enough  to  put  a  crisp  9oating  over 
the  fish  at  once,  hotter  than  for  doughnuts  or  any  dough  which  must 
have  time  to  rise,  but  not  so  hot  as  for  croquettes,  since  the  fish  would 
burn  outside  before  it  was  cooked  throughout.  Drain  on  soft  paper 
and  serve  with  acid  sauce.  In  the  recipes  for  cooking  certain  fish, 
skinning  them  is  insisted  upon.  When  both  sides  are  treated  in  this 
way,  it  is  nearly 
impossible  to  keep 
them  in  good  shape, 
but  it  is  only  flat  fish 
that  are  to  be  pre- 
pared in  this  way, 
and  it  is  entirely  un- 


Lipped  Frying  Pan. 


106  FISH. 

necessary  to  remove  the  white  skin  from  the  under  part.  That  will  hold 
the  flesh  in  place  after  the  dark,  coarse  skin  of  the  top  part  is  pulled 
off,  if  they  are  carefully  handled.  When  put  in  the  pan  of  boiling 
fat,  the  bare  or  skinned  side  of  the  fish  must  be  laid  downward  first, 
after  being  dipped  in  egg  and  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  When 
turned  up  after  a  little  trial  by  lifting  with  a  broad  knife-blade,  it  will 
show>a  golden-brown  crispness  that  is  very  stimulating  to  even  a 
jaded  appetite.  A  large  quantity  of  fat  is  usually  necessary  in  frying 
fish.  Wijh  the  exception  of  very  oily  fish,  such  as  mackerel  or  her- 
ring they  require  much  less  fat,  and  should  be  dipped  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs. 

Baked  Fish. — Procure  a  fish  of  three  or  four  pounds,  season 
with  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper.  Rub  the 
seasoning  well  in- and  outside  the  fish;  place  the  fish  with  two  pUced 
onions,  on  a  large  dish;  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon; 
cover  and  set  aside  for  1  hour.  Then .  lay  the  fish  in  a  baking  pan 
with  4  thin  slices  of  pork  under  it,  and  3  slices  of  pork  on  top.  Pouf 
1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  over  and  bake  45.  minutes.  Serve  in 
a  hot  dish  garnished  with  lemon  cut  into  quarters,  and  parsley.  It 
can  be  baked  without  the  onion  or  lemon,  l^ut  these  improve  its  flavor. 
If  salt  pork  is  not  at  hand,  grease  the  pan  thoroughly  with  lard  and 
lay  a  sheet  of  nice  brown  paper,  cut  to  the  size  of  the  pan,  in  the 
bottom.  Grease  the  paper  thoroughly  and  lay  the  fish  upon  it. 
Baked  in  this  way,  it  can  easily  be  taken  from  the  pan  without  breaking 
it  at  all,  and  the  trouble  of  cleaning  the  pan  afterwards,  which  is  not 
a  little  when  the  baking  is  done  in  the  usual  manner,  is  entirely  avoided. 

Baked  Fish,  Stuffed. — Select  a  fish  of  medium  size,  wash  well, 
wipe  dry,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Mix  1  teacup  of  stafe  bread  crumbs,  a 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper.  Stuff  the  fish  with  this  mixture.  Place  a  well- 
buttered  tin  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan.  Lay  the  fish  upon^it, 
dredge  with  flour,  salt  apd  pepper;  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  place 
in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  1 5  minutes  for  every  pound  of  fish,  basting  with 
the  gravy'  in  the  pan.  When  done  slide  carefully  into  a  dish,  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley.  Or,  the  following  stuffing  may  be 
made :  Dried  and  sifted  bread  crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste,  also  a  very  little  finely  powdered  sage,  held  together  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs.     Some  add  tomato  sauce  to  the  dressing,  others 


FISH.  107 

coTer  the  fish  with  a  layer  of  tomatoes ;  still  another  plan  is  to  stew 
the  tomatoes  alone  and  serve  the  sauce  with  the  fish  after  it  is  baked. 
Bake  according  to  size  of  fish  in  a  hot  oven  until  browned.  Wrap 
with  string  or  sew  up  the  fish  to  keep  in  the  dressing.  A  thick  slice 
of  fish  is  often  baked  in  milk  or  tomato  sauce.  The  baked  fish  with 
its  head  left  on,  although  the  hollow  eyes  be  well  filled  with  parsley,  is 
at  best  a  ghastly  sight. 

Dainty  Baked  Fish. — An  especially  dainty  way  to  bake  a  fish  is 
as  follows :  Remove  the  head  and  skin,  insert  a  knife  close  to  the 
backbone  and  cut  away  the  flesh  from  side  to  side  in  turn,  in  a  long 
strip  or  fillet,  then  scrape  off  any  bits  adhering  to  the  bones.  Fold 
over  the  narrow  end  of  one  strip  on  top,  spread  with  stuffing,  place 
the  other  fillet  above,  folding  the  thin  end  jtinderneath  to  give  a  smooth 
surface  on  top,  brush  over  with  soft  butter  and  put  skewers  through 
both  layers  to  keep  them  from  slipping.  "Bake  as  usual.  Just  before 
serving  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  brown  for  a  moment.  Meantime  the  head  and  backbone  should 
be  covered  with  cold  water  and  left  to  cook  gently  for  a  half  hour  or 
until  they  fall  apart.  Strain  off  the  water  and  thicken  for  a  sauce  or 
save  for  a  soup  next  day.  * 

Fillets;  of  Fisli. — Fillets  are  a  little  troublesome,  but  a  delicious 
method  of  preparing  fish.  Sole  is  especially  fitted  to  be  served  in 
this  manner,  but  flounders  (a  chtap  fish)  furnish  an  excellent  imita- 
tion of  sole.  The  fillets  are  made  from  the  layer  of  flesh  on  each 
side  of  the  fish,  and  each  one  can  be  cut  in  two,  thus  making  four  to 
the  fish.  A  sharp  knife  is  the  first  necessity.  Cut  the  skin  of  the 
fish  around  the  head  down  to  the  flesh,  and  then  cut  down  each  side 
of  the  broad  fin  on  the  back  of  the  fish  from  the  head  to  the  tail. 
Now  begin  at  the  head,  loosening  the  skin  with  the  knife,  and  pull  it 
off"  firmly  and  slowly,  using  the  knife  whenever  necessary  to  loosen 
the  skin,  which  will  usually  come  off"  smoothly.  Both  sides  of  the 
fish  are  now  bare,  and  it  is  easy  to  remove  the  flesh.  Flatten  the  fil- 
lets, after  they  are  cut,  by  a  blow  of  the  potato-masher,  and  then  egg 
and  crumb  each  one,  dropping  them  into  boiling  fat,  frying  them 
golden  bi-own,  and  draining  on  brown  paper  a  moment  before  serv- 
ing. They  may  be  served  either  with  cream  sauce,  which  contains 
a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley,  or  with  tomato  sauce.  Another 
method  is  to  pour  cream  sauce  over  the  fillets  and  bake  them  in  the 


108  FISH. 

oven  for  15  minutes,  taking  care  that  the  sauce  does  not  bake  away 
or  burn. 

Again,  the  fillets  may  be  cut  in  long  narrow  strips>  and  each 
one  rolled  around  and  fastened  in  place  with  wooden  toothpicks. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  five  or  seven  minutes.  Serve  with 
tomato,  cream,  or  some  other  kind  of  sauce.  To  put  the  fillets  in  a 
dish  and  cover  with  a  sliced  onion,  three  or  four  sprigs  of  parsley  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour,  is  an  improve- 
ment. Closely  cover  the  dish.  When  ready  to  serve  wipe  dry 
with  a  soft,  clean  towel,  dip  lightly  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg  and 
next  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  delicate  brown ;  serve  on 
a  folded  napkin  laid  on  a  hot  platter.  Worcestershire  sauce  is  also 
excellent  to  serve  with  fillets.    Tarragon  and  Tartar  ^auce  also. 

Frying  Fish. — Fish  for  frying,  after  being  cleaned  and  washed, 
shojild  be  rolled  in  a  cloth  to  absorb  the  moisture.  Cut  in  neat 
pieces,  dip  in  beaten,  eggs  and  roll  in  flour  or  corn-meal.  For  every 
6  or  6  pounds  offish  fry  a  few  slices  of  s;:»lt  pork  to  the  gravy  thus 
obtained ;  if  necessary  add  lard  or  butter.  Fresh  fat  may  be  used, 
but  that  from  the  pork  gives  a  better  flavor.  Brown  the  fish  quickly, 
then  cover  the  pan  and  set  back  to  steam  and  cook  through. 

Plain  Gravy.^Remove  the  fish,  rub  2  or  3  teaspoonfuls  of  flour 
smooth  in  a  little  water  and  stir  into  the  fat  the  fish  was  fried  in. 
Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  If  desired,  flavor  with  catsup  or  lemon 
juice.    Pour  the  gravy  around  the  fish,  or  serve  separately. 

Boiled  Ked  Snapper. — ^This  fish  is  common  in  the  Gulf  of 
Mexico,  and  is  one  of  the  most  delicious  for  table  Use  that  the  waters 
of  the  sea  afford.  To  boil^>  take  a  medium-sized  fish,  cleanse  and 
wash  in  cold  water,  tie  tightly  in  a  clean  cloth,  cover  well  with  hot 
water,  to  which,  for  a  fish  of  from  5  to  8  pounds,  add  one-half  cup  of 
vinegar  and  a  handful  of  salt;  boil  for  45  minutes,  or  until  the 
flesh  comes  readily  from  the  bones.  Serve  hot  with  sauce  as  follows: 
1  pint  of  water  thickened  with  flour;  let  boil  until  clear;  add  salt  to 
season,  a  little  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  2  hard-boiled 
eggs  sliced. 

Baked  Ked  Snapper. — Cleanse  the  fish,  and  in  removing  the 
entrails  make  no  longer  cut  than  is  necessary.  Stuff  the  fish  with 
dressing  as  follows :  Take  sufficient  stale  bread  to  fill  the  cavity  in 
the  head  and  body,  soften  with  cold  water ;  take  2  tablespoonfuls  o/ 


FISH.  109 

lard  in  a  saucepan,  mince  a  medium-sized  onion  and  cook  brown  in 
the  lard;  add  to  the  softened  bread.  Mix  well  and  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  sweet  herbs.  Put  enough  water  in  the  pan  to  pre- 
vent scorching  and  dredge  the  fish  slightly  with  flour.  Serve  hot. 
This  dressing  will  answer  for  other  fish. 

Baked  Bed  Snapper  a  la  Creole. — For  a  fish  of  3  or  4  pounds 
prepare  this  stuffing  :  1  can  of  tomatoes,  6  onions  chopped  fine,  1  cup 
of  dry  bread-crumbs,  1  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  red 
and  black  pepper  and  salt,  plenty  of  butter.  Stuff  your  fish  with  this 
dressing  and  sew  up.  Lay  it  flat  in  the  pan  and  cover  top  with  the 
remaining  stuffing.  Spread  butter  on  this  to  make  it  brown  nicely. 
Bake  one  hour. 

Mackerel. 

Boiled  Fresh  Mackerel. — Fresh  mackerel  are  soaked  in  salted 
water  with  a  little  vinegar  added ;  with  this  exception  they  can  be 
served  in  the  same  way  as  the  salt  mackerel.  Broiled  fresh  mackerel 
is  very  nice  with  the  same  cream  or  egg  sauce. 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel. — Split  the  fish  down  the  back  bone, 
wash  in  cold  water,  dry  with  a  clean  dry  cloth,  dust  with  salt  and 
lay  in  a  buttered  wire  broiler.  Cook  the  flesh  side  first.  Theii  turn, 
make  a  sauce  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  1  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice,  1  small  teaspoonFul  salt,  one  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper.  Dish  up  the  fish  and  turn  this  sauce  over  it  hot.  Maitre  de 
Hotel  butter  is  also  nice  with  this. 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel. — Choose  a  medium-sized  mackerel,  with 
flesh  thick  and  white.  To  freshen  suspend  by  a  string  or  stick 
.through  the  gills  in  a  jar  or  bucket  of  water.  Take  out  of  the  water 
10  or  15  minutes  before  broiling ;  dry  with  a  clean  towel.  Broil  on 
a  wire  broiler,  putting  on  a  little  butter  during  the  process,  Lay  on 
a  warm  plate  and  set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 
Maitre  de  Hotel  butter  is  nice  to  pour  over  the  fish  before  serving. 

Baked  Mackerel,  Stuffed. — Select  a  nice  fat  mackerel,  wash,  and 
soak  over  night.  As  this  is  best  for  lunch,  change  the  water  in  the 
morning  and  keep  it  in  a  cold  place.  One  hour  before  lunch  time, 
take  it  from  the  water  and  clean  all  the  black  from  the  skin.  Chop 
fine  2  pieces  of  celery,  sufficient  parsley  to  make  2  tablespoonfuls  ; 
mix  this  with  half  a  cup  of  crumbs.:  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
a  dash  of  cayeane.    Fill  this  in  the  thin  part  of  the  mackerel,  fold  it 


110  -FISH. 

together,  and  place  it  in  a  baking  pan.  Dust  with  pepper,  and  put  m 
the  pan  about  half  a  cup  of  water.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes. 
Baste  at  least  twice.     Dish  and  cover  with  tomato-sauce. 

Baked  Salt  Mackerel. ^Freshen  as  before,  drain,  pour  boiling 
water  over  the  fish,  let  stand  a  few  moments,  then  turn  off,  and  put 
the  fish  in  a  long  tin,  well  buttered.  Put  over  it  half  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream  (rich  milk  with  a  little  butter  will  do),  pepper  and  put  in  a  hot 
oven;  let  it  brown  slightly  and  serve,  adding,  more  cream  if  more 
gravy  is  needed. 

Spiced  Mackerel. — ^Take  6  medium-sized  mackerel,  clean  and  cut 
off  heads  and  tails.  Cut  across  and  make  2  parts  of  each.  Then 
take  half  a  cup  of  salt,  one-third  tablespoon  of  ground  cloves,  half  a 
tablespoon  of  allspice)  and  mix  them  well  together.  Rub  the  mix- 
ture into  the  fish,  and  pack  them  in  a  stone  jar  or  bean  pot,  and  cover 
with  pure  vinegar.    Bake  6  hours  in  a  s1om[  oven.    It  will  keep  a  year. 

Halibut. 

Boiled  HaUbut. — Wash  the  fish  in  cold  water,  wipe  and  rub  with 
salt.  Wrap  in  a  cloth,  put  in  a  fish-kettle  or  lay  on  a  large  plate  and 
put  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  to  which 
add  a  table^poonful  of  salt;  let  simmer  gently  10  minufes  to  every 
pound  of  fish.  When  done,  take  up,  drain,  remove  the  cloth,  turn 
the  fish  out  carefully  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  with 
sauce  Hollandaise. 

Baked  Halibut. — Take  a  piece  of  halibut  weighing  5  or  6  pounds, 
or  less,  and  soak  in  salt  and  water  for  2  hours ;  xwipe  dry  and  score 
the  outer  skin ;  set  in  baking  pan  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven  and  bake 
for  an  hour,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water  heated  together. 
When  a  fork  will  penetrate  it 'feasily  it  is  done.  It  should  be  of  a  fine 
brown  color.  Take  the  grayy  in  the  dripping  pan,  add  a  little  boiling 
water,  stir  in  a  teaspbonful  of  walnut  catsup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  thicken  with  browned  flour;  boil  up  once  and  put  into  a  sauce  boat. 
Many  cooks  sprinkle  chopped  onion  in  th!e  bottom  of  the  baking  pan 
before  putting  in  the  fish. 

Baked  Halibut  Steak. — Cut  the  fish  into  nice  slices,  season  With 
white  pepper  and  a  very  httle  salt,  and  place  them  in  a  well-buttered 
baking  dish.  Pour  over  them  a  wine-glass  of  strained  lemon  juice, 
and  let  it  cook  in  the  oven,  covered  with  a  buttered  paper,  for  15  to 


FISH.  Ill 

25  minutes,  according  to  thickness.  For  the  sauce,  stir  over  the  fire 
1  ounce  of  butter,  with  1  ounce  of  sifted  flour,  till  well  blended,  but 
not  browned,  then  pour  to  it  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  white  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  let  all  cook  together  for  8  or  10  minutes,  before 
adding  to  it  the  strained  liquor  from  the  baked  fish.  Boil  all  for 
about  a  minute,  then  strain  again  and  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  off 
the  stove.  When  this  has  melted,  dish  the  steaks  neatly  from  the 
.sauce  around  them  and  serve. 

Halibut  Steak,  Stuffed. — Get  two  shapely  steaks,  wash  and 
thoroughly  dry  them  with  a  towel.  Make  a  stuffing  from  a  cupful  of 
crumbs,  tablespoonful  of  butter,  tablespbonful  of  onion  juice,  or  same 
amount  of  minced  onion,  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  dash 
of  cayenne,  quarter  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  just  a  grating  of  nut- 
meg, and  feaspoonful  of  salt.  Place  1  steak  on  the  baking  pan,  lay 
carefully  over  it  the  stuffing,  and  place  above  it  the  other  steak.  Put 
small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top  and  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Bake  until  a  golden  brown,  about  20  or  30  minutes.  Serve  on 
a  hot  platter,  with  garnish  of  lemons  sliced  and  fresh  red  cherries. 

Halibut  Steak,  Fried. — Slice  thick  and  lay  in  cold  salt  water  for 
'  an  hour.  Dry  and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  dust  and  fry  in 
beef  drippings.  The  following  lemon  sauce  is  sometimes  served  with 
the  fish : 

Lemon  Sauce. — Rub  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  a  cream,  adding 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  little  pepper ; 
set  in  the  oven  until  the  butter  is  melted. 

Halibut  Steak,  Cold. — A  delicious  cold  dish  offish  is  a  "steak" 
— or  slice  across  the  body  of  the  fish — of  halibut  Cook  this  till 
perfectly  tender,  but  not  to  break,  in  a  little  butter ;  remove  it  on  a 
dish,  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  fresh  lemon  over  it.  Stew  2  or 
3  large  fresh  tomatoes  in  a  little  water,  crush  them  through  a  colan- 
der, season  the  puree  obtained  with  plenty  of  salt  and  cayenne  pepper, 
pour  it  around  (but  not  upon)  the  fish ;  cut  some  lemon  rind  in  fine 
shreds,  place  an  edging  of  these  around  the  edge  of  the  fish,  and  pirt 
a  fringe  of  green  parsley  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

Fillets  of  HaUbut. — Three  pouhds  of  halibut,  half  cup  of  butter, 

1  lemon,  3  hard-boiled  eggs.  Skin  the  fish,  bone  and  cut  in  slices 
half  an  inch  thick.     Cut  these  in  strips  about  3  inches  long  and 

2  inches  wide.    Sprinkle  the  strips  with  lemon  juice,  season  with  salt 


112  FISH. 

and  pepper,  cover  closely  and  set  away  for  an  hour.  Then  melt  the 
butter  and  dip  each  strip  in  it.  Roll  them  up,  pin  each  one  together 
with  a  wooden  toothpick,  dip  in  butter  once  more  and  arrange  them 
in  a  baking  pan.  Dredge  with  flour  thickly,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  20  minutes.  Take  the  hard-boiled  eggs,  rub  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  cut  the  white  into  rings.  "Spread,  the  little  fillets  of  fish 
upon  a  hot  dish.  Remove  the  toothpicks,  turn  a  white  sauce  around, 
not  over  them.  Sprinkle  the  grated  yolks  over  the  fish  and  garnish 
with  the  white  rings.  Any  large  fish  can  be  served  this  way.  The  eggs 
can  be  omitted  if  desired.     For  a  white,  or  cream  sauce,  see  "  Sauces."  - 

Shad. 

Boned  Shad. — To  bone  a  shad  hold  the,  knife  close Jto  the  back 
bone  and  loosen  the  flesh  from  it  on  both  sides ;  next  lay  the  fish 
open  and  take  out  the  back  bone.  This  exposes  the  other  large  bones, 
when  they  can  be  easily  removed.  Many  of  the  ^mall  bones  are  then 
visible,  and  the  others  can  be  felt  and  picked  out  by  the  fingers.  After 
all  the  bones  are  out  remove*  the  skin  and  cut  the  fish  into  pieces, 
when  it  is  ready  for  frying  or  baking,  after  being  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  dipped  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  A* 
boned  shad  cannot  be  broilecj.  Some  cooks  allow  the  fish  to  stand 
half  an  hour  after  seasoning  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkling  it  with 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  cover  with  sliced  oniqn.  Dry  in  a  soft  cloth 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.     Drain  on  blotting  or  soft  brown  paper. 

Sliad  Boe. — Boil  the  shad  roe  in  boiling  salted  water  for  10 
minutes,  slicing  in  1  small  onion,  and  adding  a  bouquet  of  herbs.  2t 
can  then  be  cooked  in  several  ways. 

1st.  Escaloped.^'Dro'p  it  in  cold  water  aftpr  boiling,  then  cut  in 
slices  1  inch  thick.  Wipe  dry  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  on  the  fire. 
When  so  hot  thatit  begins  to  turn  brown,  add  a  level  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  stir.  Now  draw  the  pan  back  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  stove 
and  gradually  add  half  a  pint  of  white  stock-veal  or  chicken.  Season 
this  with  a  little  salt,  a  grain  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  Put  the  roe  in  a  small  escalop  dish  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it.  Sprinkle"  a  cupful  of  grated  bread-crumbs  over  the  top  and 
strew  these  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  min- 
utes, and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 


FISH.  iia 

2d.  Baked.-~Dto^  the  roe  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  let  cook 
geatly  20  minutes.  Remove  and  drain.  Butter  a  tin  plate  and  lay 
the  drained  roe  upon  it  Dredge  with  salt  and  pepper  and  spread 
with  soft  butter :  dredge  thickly  with  flour.  Bake  a  half  hour,  basting, 
frequently  with  a  thin  mixture  of  flour,  water,  butter,  and  pepper  and 
salt. 

3d.  Shad  Roe  with  Green  Peas. — Cook  in  salted  water  10  minutes, 
then  place  in  a  deep  frying  pan  containing  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  and  let  cook  10  minutes,  turning  once.  Cook  a  pint  of  young 
green  peas  until  tender,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter  added.  Then  put 
in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  let  cook  2  minutes  longer.  Cut  the 
roe  in  6  pieces ;  put  in  the  centre  of  a  heated  dish,  and  turn  the  peas 
over  it.  Lay  the  fillets  of  fish  in  a  circle  around,  with  the  edge  of 
one  piece  overlapping  the  other. 

4th.  Boil  and  slice  the  roe  as  in  recipe  for  escaloped  roe ;  take 
out,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  like  fish. 

5th.   Broiled  Shad  Roe. — ^Wash  the  roe,  throw  them  in  boiling 

salted  water;  allow  them  to  stand  for  10  minutes  without  boiling. 

Drain  carefully,  dry,  place  them  on  a  greased  broiler  and  then  over  a 

quick  fire  for  5  minutes,  turning  once.    Serve  with  melted  butter  and 

'  chopped  parsley. 

Planked  Shad. — Take  a  long  narrow  baking  pan  and  put  it  on 
the  stove  with  a  piece  of  beef  suet  to  fry  out  slowly.  Split  a  roe 
shad  as  for  broiling,  dry  it  well  inside  and  out  with  a  clean  white 
cloth,  rub  it  with  quite  a  little  salt,  and  after  rubbing  the  pan  with  the 
melting  suet  lay  the  fish,  skin  up,  in  the  ^bottom  and  set  it  in  a  hot 
oven.  Let  it  brown  and  sizzle  till  it  is  puffed  in  tiny  blisters  all  over 
the  top,  and  then  you  can  be  pretty  sure  it  is_done.  Slide  it  out  on 
a  hot  platter  and  serve  garnished  with  lemon  and  parsley.  Cooked 
in  this  way,  all  the  rich  juices  of  the  fish  are  preserved,  and  there  is 
not  so  much  odor  through  the  house. 

Planked  Shad. — IL  To  plank  shad  properly  select  a  smooth, 
thick  plank  a  little  longer  than  the  fish  to  be  cooked.  It  must  be  of 
hard  wood  like  oak  or  hickory.  Bore  holes  in  plank  and  have  wooden 
pegs  to  fit  them.  Shad  can  only  be  cooked  in  this  fashion  where  an 
open  fire  is  accessible.  Spread  the  fish  on  the  board  and  fasten  it 
down  by  means  of  the  pegs.    Rest  the  end  of  the  plank  in  a  shallow 

COOK-* 


114  FISH. 

dripping-pan ;  put  a  little  water  and  salt  in  pan  at  first,  and  now  ptace 
the  whole  before  a  clear  fire.  Baste  the  fish  often  with  the  water  in 
the  pan,  and  add  plenty  of  butter,  so  that  it  will  be  richly  seasoned. 
When  nearly  done,  add  a  sauce  made  of  melted  butter,  to  which  is 
added  wali^ut  or  tomato  catsup.  Many  families  have  handsome  planks, 
so  that  the  shad  may  be  served  on.  them,  without  risking  its  removal 
to  a  platter.  But  when  this  is  impossible,  slip  the  fish  from  the  plank 
to  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  of  melted  butter  and  walnut 
catsup,  or  any  good  fish  sauce.'    Serve  with  sharp  and  spicy  pickles. 

Baked  and  Stuffed  Sbad. — Take  a  fresh  shad  that  weighs  about 
2  pounds,  clean  thoroughly,  wash  and  rub  with  salt ;  make  a  stuffing 
by  chopping  about  a  quarter  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  and  wheat  bread 
crumbs,  1  pint ;  season  with  peppfir  and  salt  if  needed,  and  if  not 
moist  enough,  use  a  little  new  milk ;  cut  gashes  in  the  fish  from  head 
to  tail,  about  1}4  inches  apart;  stuff  the  fish  and  wind  a  twine  around 
it  from  end  to  end ;  cut  very  thin  strips  of  fat  salt  pork,  put  in  the 
gashes,  sprinkle  with  flour, put  a  little  water  in  the  pan ;  bake  1  hour; 
after  taking  the  fish  from  the  baking  pan  you  can  make  a  gravy,  if 
you  like,  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  water  and  a  little  butter.  In- 
stead of  milk  to  moisten  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  dressing,  a  beaten 
egg  can  be  used. 

Broiled  Sbad. — Rub  th^  fish  with  olive  oil,  as  it  gives  a  delicious 
flavor,  place  on  a  buttered  broiler  a  nicely  wiped  shad,  and  broil  over 
a  moderate  fire.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon.  Butter  can  be  used 
to  rub  the  fish  instead  of  oil. 

Salmon. 

Salmon  is  at  its  best  from  the  1st  of  April  until  the  end  6£-July, 
The  freshness  of  the  fish  can  be  distinguished  by  the  brilliancy  of  the 
skin  and  bloody  gills  and  eyes.  If  the  skin  and  eyes  are  dull,  the 
fish  is  not  fresh.  Highly  colored  salmon  is  the  best;  whitish  fish 
denotes  inferior  quality. 

Boiled  Salmon. — -Two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  a  teacupful  of 
vinegar  to  1  gallon  of  water,  are  the  proper  proportions  for  season- 
ing and  cooking  a  10-pound  salmon.  The  vinegar  added  to  the  water 
will  entirely  prevent  the  salmon  from  breaking  and  will  impart  a  nice 
flavor.  Some  cooks  tfirow  in  a  bay  leaf  and  a  sliced  onion.  Families 
purchasing  a  fresh  salmon  should  parboil  the  portion  not  required 


FISH.  lib 

jbr  the  day's  consumption  and  lay  it  aside  in  the  liquor.  Boil  it  in 
this  liquor  when  wanted.  By  this  means  the  curd  will  be  set  and  the 
fish  vlrill  be  equally  good  as  at  first.  Salmon  is  better  put  into  warm 
water  instead  of  cold  in  order  to  preserve  its  color  and  set  the  curcl^ 
It  should  be  thoroughly  well  dressed  to  be  wholesome.  Scale  it, 
empty  and  wash  it  with  the  greatest  care,  do  not  leave  any  blood  in 
the  inside  that  you  can  remove,  boil  the  salt  rapidly  in  the  fish  kettle 
for  a  minute  or  two,  taking  off"  the  scum  as  it  rises,  put  in  the  salmon, 
first  trussing  it  in  the  shape  of  the  letter  S,  and  let  it  boil  gently  till 
it  is  thoroughly  done.  Take  it  from  the  water  on  the  fish  plate,  let 
it  drain,  put  it  on  a  hot  folded  fish  napkin,  and  garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon.  Sauce,  shrimp  or  lobster.  Send  up  dressed  cucumber  With 
salmon.  The  custom  of  serving  up  rich  sauces  is  unknown  in  coun- 
tries where  salmon  most  abound.  A  little  lemon  juice,  or  white  wine 
vinegar  added  to  melted  butter,  being  quite  sufficient. 

Baked  Salmon. — Select  a  thick  piece  of  salmon  and  put  it  in  the 
baking  dish.  Add  half  a  cup  of  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice.  Cover  the  pan  with  another  the  same  size,  and  bake  in  the 
oven  for  half  an  hour.  Place  the  salmon  on  a  hot  platter.  Rub  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  together  to  a  creairf. 
Add  gradually  J.  cup  or  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  over  the 
fire  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
minced  parsley,  the  crumbled  yolk  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  table- 
spoonful of  lemon  juice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne.  Serve  the  salmon  garnished  with  potato  balls  and  the  sauce 
in  a  boat.  The  canned  salmon  containing  whole  .i,teaks  weighing  a 
pound,  each  may  be  similarly  served.  It  will  retjuire  only  making 
very  hot  in  the  oven  when  the  sauce  is  to  be  made  as  above. 

Baked  Salmon  Trout. — This  deliciOusly  flavored  game-fish  is 
baked  as  other  fish,  but  should  be  accompanied  with  cream  gravy. 
Bake  it  slowly,  baste  often  with  butter  and  water.  When  done  have 
ready  in  a  saucepan,  diluted  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water  in 
Vhjch  has  been  stirred  carefully  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
a  scant  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Season 
,with  pepper  and  salt.  Heat  this  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of 
boiling  water.  Add"  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  boil  up  once 
to  thicken,  and  when  the  trout  is  laid  on  a  hot  dish  pour  this  ^auce 
around  it,  or  serve  in  a  separate  dish. 


116  FISH. 

Fresh  Salmon,  Fried. — Cut  the  slices  three-quarter  inch  thick, 
roll  in  flour  or  dip  first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread-crumbs.  Fty 
a  light-brown  on  both  sides.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  This 
method  answers  for  frying  all  fish.  Fry  in  a  mixture  of  butter  and 
lard.    Some  cooks  roll  in  corn  meal  instead  of  flour. 

Pickled  Salmon.— Take  a  fresh  salmon,  clean,  cut  in  large  pieces 
and  boil  in  salted  water.  Drain,  wrap  in  a  dry  cloth  and  set  in  a  cold 
place  till  next  day;  Then  make  the  pickle  which  must  be  in  propor- 
tion to  amount  of  fish.  To  1  quart  of  the  water  in  which  the  salmon 
was  boiled,  allow  2  qliarts  of  the  best  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  whole 
black  peppers,  1  nutmeg  broken  to  bits  and  12  blades  of  mace.  Boil 
all  these  together  (cover  the  kettle  to  prevent  loss  of  flavor).  When 
the  vinegar,  thus  prepared  is  quite  cold  pour  it  over  the  salmon. 
Gover  closely;  put  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  arid  it  will  keep  many  months. 
It  is  a  delicious  dish.  A  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  poured  over  the 
top  of  the  vinegar  will  make  it  keep  longer. 

BroUed  Salmon. — Cut  it  in  slices,  put  in  a  buttered  double 
broiler.  Broil  quickly,  turning  first  one  side  and  then  the  other. 
When  dished,  rub  butter  over  it. 

■*  Salmon  Salmi. — ^Take  canned  or  cold  boiled  salmon,  flake  it  and 
add  to  it  an  equal  amount  of  shredded  lettuce,  or  the  heart  of  a  white 
cabbage,  mix  and  pour  over  it  the  following  dressing :  1  egg  (beaten), 
2  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonfiil 
salt,  dash  of  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  salad-oil  or  melted  butter.  If 
preferred,  some  of  the  cooked  salad  sauces  may  be  used. 

St.  Croix  Salmon.— Remove  the  oil,  bones  and  skin,  and  drain 
carefully,  and  break  into  flakes.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
hot  frying-pan ;  when  it  is  melted  add  the  fish ;  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt,  It  may  be  allowed  to  brown,  or  merely  heated  through 
Turn  it  out  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  or  water-cress,  and 
serve. 

Salmon  on  Toast. — Mince  fine  the  contents  of  1  can  of  salmon,' 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  5  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk,  heat  and 
pour  over  buttered  toast. 

Salmon  Pie. — Put  in  baking-dish  one  can  salmon,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  mashed  potatoes  and"  bake  till  brown. 

Salmon  Pie. — II.  Make  a  crust  like  a  chicken -pie;  remove  the  skin 
and  bones  from  a  can  of  salmon;  put  a  layer  of  salmon,  then  one  of 


FISH.  lit 

rolled  cracker;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  bits  of  butter; 
repeat  until  salmon  is  used.  Use  juice  and  a  little  water  for  moisture; 
cover  with  the  crust.  Serve  with  green  peas  and  mashed  potatoes, 
and  the  result  is  a  very  good  dinner. 

Canned  Salmon,  Plain. — ^Arrange  the  fish  in  as  large  pieces  as 
possible,  picking  out  the  bones.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley, 
and  serve  vinegar  with  it. 

Deviled  Salmon. — Arrange  the  fish  in  as  neat  flakes  as  possible. 
Arrange  lettuce  leaves  around  the  plate,  and  pour  the  following 
dressing  over  the  fish.  Dressing. — Yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  1 
tablespoonful  of  salad-oil,  or  melted  butter.  Rub  with  the  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste ;  add  2  teaspoonfuls  each  of  sugar  and  mustard,  salt 
and  cayenne  to  taste;  add  a  little  viijegar,  and  mix  all  thoroughly. 

Ood-Pish. 

Baked  Stuffed  Cod-Fi8li.^Wash  and  wipe  dry  a  5-pound  cod- 
fish, cut  open- and  fill  with  dressing  as  for  turkey;  stew  it  up;  make 
incisions  across  the  fish  and  put  srnall  pieces  of  butter  in ;  baste  with 
salt  and  flour;  cut  up  small  pieces  of  fat  pork  and  lay  in  the  pan 
beside  the  fish ;  put  water  in  the  pan  and  bake  with  a  moderate  fire 
2^  hours ;  do  not  turn  the  fish ;  when  done  remove  it  from  the 
pan ;  make  gravy  with  water  left  in  the  pan ;  add  flour  and  a  piece 
of  butter  and  pour  it  over  the  fish ;  serve  with  mashed  potatoes, 
tomatoes  and  celery. 

Boiled  Cod-Fish. — ^Take  a  small  cod-fish.  Cover  the  fish  with 
3  quarts  of  cold  water  in  which  are  placed  a  handful  of  salt,  half  a 
wineglass  of  vinegar,  one  small  carrot  cut  in  slices,  one  onion  also  cut 
fine,  three  bay  leaves,  three  sprigs  of  thyme  and  a  bunch  of  parsley 
roots;  Let  the  cod-fish  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  simmer  slowly, 
bubbles  arising  on  the  edge  of  the  kettle,  for  30  minutes.  Then 
lift  it  out,  pull  off  the  skin,  and  surround  it  With  new  boiled  potatoes 
cut  in  quarters  and  tossed  five  minutes  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  white  pepper  for.  every  six  pota- 
toes.   Add  a  few  sprays  of  parsley  over  the  fish. 

Boiled  Cod-Fish.— II.  Sew  up  the  piece  of  fish  in  thin  cloth, 
fitted  to  shape,  boil  in  salted  water  (boiling  from  the  first),  allow 
about  15  minutes  to  the  pojind.  Carefully  unwrap  and  pour  over  it 
cream  or  egg  sauce. 


118  FISH. 

Cod  a  la  Flamande. — Have  the  steaks   cut  two  Inches  thick  ;^ 
grease  the  baking-pan  and  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  chopped  onions/ 
parsley,  bits  of  butter  and  a  bay  loaf;  lay  the  steaks  on  this,  brush 
over  the  top  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  sprinkle  with  chopped  onion 
and  parsley  and  pour  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice  to  each  steak. 
Bake  30  minutes  and  serve  with  bechamel  sauce.  ^ 

Cod's  Roe. — Cod's  roe  boiled  and  served  with  caper  Sauce  is 
Very  palatable.  Prick  the  roe  and  boil  in  slightly  salted  water;  drain, 
dish  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  send  to  the  table  with  the  accompani- 
ment of  caper  or  parsley  sauce.     Cut  in  slices  one-half  inch  thick. 

Cod's  Boe  Pudding, — Boil  8  potatoes,  mash  them  thoroughly 
with  cream,  salt  and  a  little  butter.  Boil  1  pound  of  cod  roe  for  20 
minutes;  take  the  skin  off,  mix  well  with  the  potatoes,  and  add  4 
eggs,  2  ounces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Sake  for  15  minutes,  cover 
the  top  of  the  dish  with  white  of  egg,  and  bake  until  brown.  Sdrve 
with  oyster  sauce,  or  the  oysters  may  be  cut  up  and  mixed  with  the 
other  ingredients. 

Salt  Ood-Pish. 

Broiled  Salt  Cod.-^Soak  nice  white  strips  of  the  fish  for  several 
hours  in  cold  water;  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  and  lay  them  over  clear 
hot  coals  on  a  broiler  that  has  been  rubbed  with  suet.  Brown  the 
fish  nicely  on  both  sides,  remove  to  a  hot  platter  and  lay  upon  each 
piece  a  little  fresh  butter.  :  A  fringe  of  fried  potatoes  is  a  good  ac- 
companiment. Codfish  is  good  boiled,  but  it  should  be  well  soaked 
and  be  allowed  to  simmer  for  two  or  three  hours.  It  may  be  served 
with  drawn  butter;  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  on  it  make  a  fine  addition. 

Cod-Fish  Stew. — A  teacupful  of  flaked  fish,  soaked  10  minutes  in 
cold  water  and  squeezed  dry.  Simmer  in  a  pint  of  water  for  5  minutes. 
Add,  first,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter,  rubbed  together; 
next,  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  cream  after  taking  from  the 
fire.     Pepper  to  taste. 

Creamed  Cod  in  a  Potato  Cdae. — Boil  and  mash  6  good-sized 
potatoes.  Add  1  beaten  egg,  a  gill  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Then  beat  the  potatoes  till  very  light. 
Pick  and  scald  1  pound  of  boneless  salt  cod,  and  drain  and  scald 
again.  Shred  and  press  the  fish  till  dry.  Put  1  large  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  in  a  pan  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  1  pint 
of  milk.    Stir  till  it  boils  and  thickens.    Add  a  couple  of /pinches  of 


FISH.  119 

pepper.  Grease  a  small  pudding  mould,  and  line  the  bottom  and 
sides  with  the  potato.  Add  the  fish  to  the  cream  sauce,  and  fill  in 
the  centre  of  the  mould  with  it.  Then  cover  over  with  a  thick  layer 
of  the  potato,  and  bake  till  a  nice  brown.  When  done,  turn  it  out 
and  serve. 

Creamed  Cod-Fisli. — Soak,  boil  and  pick  the  fish  same  as  for  fish- 
balls.  Pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  place  on  range,  where  it  will 
just  simmer.  Put  1  pint  (or  more)  cream  or  rich  milk  in  double 
boiler,  come  to  a  scald;  thicken  like  cream  toast;  cook  thoroughly 
and  strain  on  to  the  drained  salt  fish ;  season  and  serve.  If  milk  is  used 
2  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  up  and  added  are  nice.  Add  a  little  butter 
with  milk.  Be  sure  the  fish  is  tender  and  not  too  salt  before  adding  to 
milk.  Serve  with  hot  creamed  or  baked  potatoes.  Creamed  codfish 
cap  also  be  made  with  rich  milk  and  no  thickening.  Put  in  a  lump 
of  butter.  It  is  very  nice  poured  over  slices  of  toast  laid  on  a  large 
platter. 

Cod-Fish  and  !Eggs> — Stir  together  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
until  thoroughly  mixed,  1  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  'and  flour. 
Add  half  a  cupful  of  water  and  1  cupful  of  shredded  cod-fish  that  has 
been  previously  freshened.  Let  simmer  5  minutes,  stir  in  2  eggs, 
cook  gently  until  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  done,  then  serve.  Add  a 
little  pepper.  Pour  into  a  deep  platter,  and  serve  with  a  border  of 
new  potatoes  (either  steamed  or  boiled).  When  these  are  out  of 
season,  serve  in  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes,  beaten  until  creamy. 

Salt  Fish  Chowder. — Pick  in  small  bits  salt  fish  enough  to  fill  a 
saucer ;  then  fill  the  saucer  with  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  while  pre- 
paring thp  chowder;  fry  4  or  5  slices  of  salt  pork;  be  careful  not  to 
burn  it;  when  done  take  out;  pare  and  cut  fine  2  good-sized  onions; 
pare  and  slice  6  potatoes;  put  them  in  the  kettle,  drain  the  water  off 
the  fish,  and.  put  in  on  top  of  the  potatoes;  shake  in  a  little  pepper; 
cover  with  water;  while  it  is  boiling  make  a  thickening  of  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  cold  Water  enough  to  mix  thin ;  when  the 
potatoes  are  soft  add  the  thickening;  put  the  kettle  on  top  of  the 
stove ;  let  it  boil  2  or  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  or  2  cups  of  milk ;  stir 
it  very  carefully  and  taste ;  if  too  fresh,  add  a  little  salt ;  if  not  riph 
enough,  add  a  piece  of  butter;  if  any  one  likes  crackers  in  the 
chowder,  before  dishing  up  take  common  crackers,  split  them  and  dip 
in  cold  water  quick ;  lay  on  top  the  chowder  1  minute.  , 


120  FISH. 

OM-FasMoned  Fish-balls. — One  pint  of  salt  fish  after  being 
cooked  and  picked  fine,  1  quart  of  mashed  potato  mixed  with  the  fish 
tvhile  warm ;  mix  with  this  3  or  4  slices  of  salt  pork,  cut  vejty  fine 
and  fried  brown  in  the  pan.  _  Mix  this  with  the  fish-balls,  add  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  beat  thoroughly ;  form  in  balls.  Add  a  little  lard 
to  the  fat  in  the  pan,  roll  the  balls  in  flour  and  fry  brown'on  both  sides. 

Cod-Fish  Balls  and  Bacon. — Make  after  above  rule.  Fry  thin 
slices  of  bacon.  After  this  is  done  fry  the  codfish-balls  in  the  bacon- 
fat  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  all  on  one  platter,  arranging  the  bacon 
on  the  outer  edge. 

Fish  Puflfs. — One  cup  cooked  codfish  (any  cold  fish  will  do),  2 
cups  mashed  potatoes^  1  tablespoonful  butter,  dash  of  red  pepper, 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Stir  all  thoroughly  together ;  then  add  well-beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  whip  in  very  lightly,  bake  20  minutes  in  hot 
oven ;  serve  at  once. 

Breaded  Fish.^-Take  a  half-pint  of  dried  bread  crumbs,  1^  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  a  sixth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  an  egg,  2  pounds  of 
any  kind  offish,  fat  for  frying.  Have  the  fish  free  from  skin  and  bones, 
and  cut  it  into  pieces.  Season  it  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  egg 
in,  a  soup  plate  and  dip  the  fish  in  it,  one  piece  at  a  time,  getting  every 
part  covered  with  the  egg ;  then  roll  in  the  crumbs  and  lay  on  a  plate. 
Have  enough  fat  in  the  frying  kettle  to  float  the  fish.  When  it  be- 
comes so  hot  that  blue  smoke  risfes  from  the  center,  put  in  the  fish 
and  cook  for  5  minutes.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  very  hot. 
Tartar  sauce  is  particularly  good  to  serve  with  breaded  fish. 

Planked  "White  Fish. — Place  fish  with  the  skin  side  down  on  a 
hardwood  plank,  brush  over  with  butter  and  broil.  Cook  slowly,  but 
do  not  turn.  When  done  slice  tomatoes  on  the  board  all  around  the 
edge  of  the  fish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  on  g.  platter  which 
will  hold  the  board  nicely.  The  smoke  from  the  board  gives  the  fish 
a  delicious  flavor. 

Baked  White  Fish. — ^After  dressing,  split  the  fish  down  the  back 
and  remove  the  backbone.  Wipe  the  fish  and  dip  in  beaten  egg. 
This  may  be  applied  with  a  feather.  Roll  in  flour  and  then  in  egg 
again.  .  Lay  it  in  a  baking  pan  that  has  been  previously  heated,  add 
dripping  or  butter,  and  bake  carefully  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20 
minutes.  Baste  often.  Ifthefishis  properly  cooked,  not  scorched, 
it  will  be  of  a  rich  yellow-hlrown.    Serve  with  hot  fish-sauce. 


FISH.  121 

Btelt  WMte  Fish. — Place  in  plenty  of  cold  water  over  night,  or 
still  better,  in  a  pan  of  sour  milk.  Scald  slightly  when  ready  for  cook- 
ing, lay  on  a  well-buttered  plate  with  bits  of  butter  over  the  fish,  and 
put  it  into  the  oven  till  the  butter  melts,  after  which  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Fish  Croquettes  with  Cream  Sauce. — One  half-pint  of  milk ;  3 
teaspoonfuls  butter ;  3  even  tablespoonfuls  flour ;  1  egg  yolk ;  1  table- 
spoonful  chopped  parsley ;  one-fourth  of  a  grated  nutmeg ;  2  cUps  cold 
boiled  fish ;  seasoning.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil.  Rub  together  the 
butter  and  flour,  then  stir  them  into  the  boiling  milk,  stir  until  a  thick 
paste  is  formed,  add  the  yolk  of  egg  and  parsley.  Mix  and  add  the 
boiled  fish ;  mix  again  and  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  cay- 
enne, and  turn  out  to  cool.  When  cold,  form  into  cutlets  or  cro- 
quettes. Dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
very  hot  butter.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  very  hot  with 
cream  sauce. 

Fish  Hash. — One  pint  salt  fish  shredded  fine,  2  bowls  potatoes 
pared  and  cut  small,  place  in  stew-pan,  cover  with  water,  boil  25 
minutes,  drain  off"  water,  place  on  stove  3  minutes  to  steam,  mash  per- 
fectly smooth ;  add  1  raw  onion  chopped  very  fine,  1  cup  cream,  1  egg 
well  beaten,  then  beat  with  spoon  5  minutes ;  have  hot  in  frying  pan 
the  fat  of  four  slices  salt  pork,  into  which  put  the  hash  and  cook  until 
the  edges  look  brown  about  10  minutes,  avoid  burning,  turn  carefully 
on  hot  platter  bottom  side  up,  and  serve  hot. 

Fish  Stew. — ^Three  to  4  pounds  of  codfish,  cut  crosswise  (not 
split  in  back)  in  2  to  2^-inch  pieces,  pare  4  or  6  potatoes,  according 
to  size,  slice  them  half-inch  thick ;  onion,  as  much  as  wanted,  slice 
also,  (we  use  2  if  large) ;  a  deep  pan,  1  }4  cups  water ;  put  your  potatoes 
in  -first,  then  your  fish,  then  onion,  1  tablespoon  salt,  a  little  black 
pepper,  2  ounces  of  butter.  When  the  fish  is  nearly  done  mix  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  in  a  little  cold  water  and  add.  Take  care  it  does  not 
burn. 

Fish  Curry. — Chop  an  onion  very  small,  bruise  12  cloves  in  a 
mortar  and  fry  these  in  2  ounces  of  butter.  Add  1  tablespoonful  pi 
curry  powder,  stir  and  then  put  in  any  cold  fish  you  may  happen  to 
have,  nicely  flaked.  Let  it  get  rather  dry,  and  then  pour  in  half  a  cup , 
of  canned  tomato  and  a  little  salt ;  mix  to  a  paste.  Make  a  puff"  paste 
and  line  the  patty  pans  with  it,  and  then  pour  in  the  curry  mixture' 
cover  each  patty  with  the  paste  and  bake  a  golden  brown. 


122  FISH. 

Baked  Blue  Fish. — Scale,  cleanse  and  fill  with  dressing  as  for 
Saked  fish,  stuffed.  The  common  stuffing  is  dried  and  sifted  bread 
crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Bass,  Pike  and  Pickerel. — These  fish  can  be  treated  in  the  same 
^shion. 

BroUed  Blue  Fish. — Have  the  dealer  of  whom  you  buy  the  fish 
clean  if  and  split  it,  removing  the  back  bone  entirely,  wipe  it  nicely, 
grease  your  double  wire  broiler  well  with  salt  pork,  put  the  thick  part 
of  fish  next  to  the  middle  of  broiler,  flesh  side  down^  and  cook  till  a 
nice  brown,  then  turn  and  just  crisp  the  skin,  as  it  burns  easily. 
Have  ready  a  platter  that  will  not  injure  to  put  in  a  hot  oven,  loosen 
the  fish  carefully  from  broiler  and  slip  it  off  on  to  platter,  skin-side 
down;  salt  and  butter  it  \yell,  and. place  in  hot  oven  for  6  minutfes, 
,  then  leave  door  open  till  ready  to  serve,  when  slip  off  on  to  hot  platter 
for  table. 

Creamed  Pike. — Boil  a  3-pound  fish,  pike  is  best,  but  any  fish  will 
do ;  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  flake  it  until  finely  minced,  add  juice 
of  1  onion,  1  saltspoon  pepper,  1}^  saltspoons  of  salt,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1^  cups  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Put  in  individual 
dishes  and  sprinkle  top  with  bread  drumbs  which  have  been  stirred 
in  a  well-heated  pan  with  butter.  Put  in  oven  until  light-brown  on 
top.     Serve  hot. 

Breaded  Bass. — Clean  the  bass  well  and  soak  in  salted  water. 
Beat  2  eggs  with  a  spoonful  of  cream ;  dip  the  fish  in  this  and  then 
into  crackers  rolled  fine.  Fry  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  and,  removing 
them,  fry  the  fish  in  the  same  dish.  Unless  these  are  very  large,  they 
are  not  split,  but  are  fried  on  each  side  until  brown.  Serve  with 
parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  upon  it. 

Sheepshead. — Choose  a  small  one ;  the  larger  fish  are  dark  in 
color  and  apt  to  be  dry  and  tasteless.  Scale,  pare  and  cleanse  it  well; 
truss  the  head  to  the  body  and  set  to  boil  in  salted  water,  to  which 
must  be  added  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar.  At  the  end  of  40  minutes 
slide  it  on  to  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve. 

Flaked  Fish. — ^Take  1  pint  of  cold  cooked  fish,  flake  it.  Make 
/the  following  sauce:  Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  rub 
it  to  a  cream  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Pour  in  slowly  one-half 
cup  of  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  1  tea.spoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  and  1  of  anchovy  or  pepper-sauce,  or  a  dash  of  cay- 


FISH.  123 

«nne  pepper.     Then  stir  in  1  cupful  of  rich  milk.    Add  the  flakefi 
Ish,  heat  well,  and  serve.    A  nice  breakfast  or  lunch  dish. 

Fried  Trout. — Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish,  roll  lightly  in  flour 
and  fry  in  butter  or  clarified  dripping.  Let  the  fat  be  hot.  Fry 
quickly  to  a  delicate  brown,  and  take  up  the  trout  the  instant  they  are 
done.  Lay  for  a  moment  upon  a  hot-folded  napkin  to  absorb  What- 
ever grease  may  cling  to  their  speckled  sides.  Then  range  them  side 
by  side  on  a  heated  dish,  garnish  and  send  to  the  tablet  Use  no  sea- 
soning except  salt,  and  that  only  when  the  fish  are  fried  in  lard  or 
unsalted  dripping.      ^ 

Fish  Souffle. — Take  fish  left  from  breakfast,  bone  it  thoroughly; 
put  with  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes,  add  a  half-cup  of  milk 
gradually;  then  season  with  a  small  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one-third 
saltspoonful  of  pepper;  stir  in  1  beaten  egg.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish 
and  set  in  oven  until  it  becomes  very  hot ;  then  beat  the  white  of  an- 
other egg  very  stiff  and  stir  into  the  yolk,  beaten  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.    Heap  over  the  fish  and  brown  in  the  oven.    Serve. 

Fish  Force-meat  Balls. — Take  a  little  uncooked  fish,  whatever 
variety  is  to  be  served.  Chop  it  fine  with  one-third  as  much  raw  salt 
pork.  Mix  it  with  a  beaten  egg,  a  few  bread  crumbs,  and  season  the 
whole  with  pepper,  salt,  mace  and  nutmeg.  A  little  catsup  may  be 
added;  flour  the  hands  and  make  it  into  small  balls,  and  fry  in  hot 
dripping  to  a  delicate  brown.     Serve  with  fish. 

Broiled  Haddock  with  Tartar  Sauce. — Prepare  "a  haddock 
weighing  about  2^  pounds,  with  the  bone  removed  and  split  open 
ready  for  broiling.  It  should  be  washed  by  wiping  it  with  a  cloth 
wet  in  salt  water,  and  dried  with  a  clean  towel.  Spread  with  soft 
butter,  and  broil  it  over  a, hot,  clean  fire  until  it  is  done;  when  ready 
to  serve,  open  the  broiler  and  slide  the  fish  on  the  platter  with  the 
flesh  side  of  the  fish  uppermost.  Spread  with  tartar  sauce  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemcm  and  parsley. 

Fillet  of  Haddock.— Procure  a  fresh  haddock  of  about  2  or  2% 
pounds,  remove  all  the  bones  and  cut  the  fish  into  4  pieces,  season 
with  one-half  teaspoonful  sdt  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  pepper, 
sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  lay  the  fish  in  a  covered  dish  with 
1  sliced  onion,  cover  and  let  stand  1  hour ;  then  wipe  the  fish  dry. 
dust  with  flour,  dip  each  piece  separately  into  beaten  egg,  cover  with 
fresh  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  light  brown  in  butter  and  lard  mixed; 


124  FISH. 

lay  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  little  ftiaitrfe  d'hotel  butter  over 
each  piece,  and  serve. 

Smoked  Haddock.— Skin  smoked  haddock,  put  in  the  oven  and 
bake  until  it  looks  dry,  then  take  up  and  put  on  a  platter  and  put  bits 
of  butter  over  it,  set  back  in  the  oven  until  the  buttei;  has  meltec^ 
then  serve. 

Turbot  a  la  Creme. — One  pint  of  cold  fish  chopped  very  fine. 
Take  1  large  spoonful  of  butter,  melt  in  saucepan  and  stir  into  it  2 
spoonfuls  of  flour  until  smooth.  Add  1  pint  of  milk,  scalded,  stir- 
ring well  until  it  thickens.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Stir  into  fish,  and  put  in  shells  or  small  china  dish,  covering  the  top 
with  bread  crumbs  stirred  into  melted  butter.  Brown  in  oven  10 
minutes. 

Fried  Smelts.^Clean,  wipe  dry;  put  the  tail  in  the  mouth,  fasten 
with  skewer;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  beat  an  egg  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water;  dip  the  smelts  in  flour,  then  in  egg,  then  in  cracker 
crumbs  until  well  coated;  fry  in  deep  fat  for  5  minutes;  tlrain.  Serve 
on  a  platter  on  which  is  laid  a  fringed  napkin.  Decorate  with  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  bits  of  lenion.     If  liked,  serve  with  a  mayonnaise  sauce. 

Deviled  Slirimps. — ^Open  and  wash  1  can  of  shrimps,  put  half 
j^nt  of  milk  over  the  fire,  add  half  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  stale,  not 
dried ;  cook  a  moment,  take  from  fire  and  mix  in  a  teaspoonful  salt, 
a  quarter  teaspoonful  pepper,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  a. teaspoonful  onion- juice," and  the  chopped  hard- 
boiled  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Mix  and  add  shrimps.  Fill  this  in  shells  or 
individual  dishes,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and 
brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Creamed  Sbrimps. — Open  and  wash  1  can  of  shrimps.  Drain. 
Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  in  a  saucepan ;  when 
melted,  add  half  pint  of  m.ilk,  stir  until  boiling;  add  1  tablespoonful 
salt,;half  of  pepper,  and  the  shrimps.  Stand  over  the  tea-kettle  for 
20  minutes  and  serve. 

Shrimps  on  Toast. — Thoroughly  dredge  1  pint  of  shrimps  with 
flour.  Fry  in  boiling  lard.  A  wire  /rying  basket  is  most  convenient 
for  this.  Drain  them  in  a  sieve,  or  on  a  piece  of  blotting  paper. 
Season  with  pepper  and  a  sprinkling  of  lemon  juice,  and  lays  them 


FISH.  125 

dosely  on  pieces  of  fried  bread,  or  daintily  buttered  toast.    Surround 
with  a  border  of  parsley. 

Broiled  Sardines. — Drain  the  sardines  for  2  hours  on  a  clean 
piece  of  blotting  paper.  Nicely  toast  thin  slices  of  bread;  butter 
them  and  arrange  on  a  warm  platter.  Broil  the  fish  over  a  clean, 
bright  fire,  and  serve  them  on  the  toast. 

Deviled  Sardines  on  Toast. — Talce  the  sardines  from  the  box 
and  drain  all  oil  from  them.  Carefully  skin  and  split  them  open. 
Prepare  delicate  slices  of  crisp  toast,  lay  the  sardines  on  these,  sprinkle 
with  cayenne  and  a  grating  of  cheese.  Put  in  the  oven  and  leave 
only  until  heated  through,  as  the  toast  should  not  be  too  dry.  Serve 
at  once.     They  can  be  served  without  the  cheese. 

Fish  Chowder. — Take  a  cod  weighing  about  10  pounds.  (Other 
fish  will  do,  but  cod  is  best.)  Have  it  cleaned.  Cut  it  in  slices  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  1%  pounds  of  fat,  salt  pork  in  thin  slices.  Slice 
16  or  18  potatoes  thinly.  Take  a  large  kettle,  put  in  the  pork,  fry  it 
out,  and  add  to  it  3  pints  of  water.  Put  in  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a 
layer  of  potatoes.  Sift  over  all  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  and  a  little  flour;  then  the  pork  cut  in  strips;  then 
another  layer  of  fish  and  the  remainder  of  the  potatoes.  Fill  the 
pot  with  water  until  the  whole  is  covered.  Put  over  a  hot  fire  and 
let  boil  25  minutes.  Have  ready  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  12  or 
14  soda  crackers.  Put  these  in  and  let  boH  five  minutes  longer. 
Serve  hot.  Delicious.  Add  a  couple  of  onions  sliced  when  the 
flavor  is  liked  by  the  guests.     - 

Brook  Trout. — ^These  are  very  delicate  fish.  Clean,  wash  and 
dry  them ;  split  to  tail ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  them. 
Fry  in  salt  pork  drippings,  or  in  a  mixture  of  lard  and  butter.  Let 
the  fat  be  very  hot,  and  fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown  on  both 
sides.  Lay  side  by  side  on  d^  heated  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley 
or  celery.  They  are  often  served  with  their  heads  on,  and  sometimes 
crisply-fried  slices  of  salt  pork  are  sent  up  with  them. 

Potted  Fish.— Cut  a  fish  in  conveniently-sized  pieces,  rub  salt  on 
each  side,  place  them  in  an  earthenware  crock,  sprinkling  in  pepper 
whole,  and  other  whole  spices,  allspice,  cloves,  mace,  between  each 
layer  and  cover  with  good  cider  vinegar.  When  the  jai  is  nearly  full, 
tie  a  paper  over  and  cover  this  with  an  e'a.rthenware  cover.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  between  3  and  4,  hours.    This  is  delicious,  and  will 


126  FISH. 

keep  2  or  3   weeks  in   a  cool  place.      Cod-fish,  halibut,   chicken 
tongue  and  ham  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Eels. 

Fried  Eels. — Eels  can  be  found  in  market  ready  skinned  for 
cooking.  Split  them  lengthwise  and  remove  the  bone.  Cut  the 
strips  into  3-inch  lengths ;  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper ;  dip  each 
piece  in  egg  and  then  in  cracker  meal.  When  the  lard  is  hot  drop 
them  in  and  fry  about  5  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
with  potatoes. 

JEel  Stew. — Cut  the  eel  jn  2-inch  pieces.  Put  in  a  sauce-pan  with 
water  enough  to  cover.  Let  stew  ten  minutes ;  then  throw  in  pota- 
toes cut  in  dice ;  carrots  sliced,  and  2  smalls  onions  also  sliced.  Let 
cook  until  done.  Thicken  with  a  very  little  flour  and  one  egg  beaten. 
Let  boil  once  or  twice  and'  serve  at  once.  Use  no  butter,  as  the  eel 
abounds  in  fatty  substances.  ^ 

Broiled  Eels. — Eels,  if  very  large,  are  best  split  open,  cut  in 
short  pieces,  seasoned  with  salt  and"  pepper,  and  left  standing  several 
hours,  after  which  they  may  be  carefully  broiled.  Butter  the  bars 
of  the  gridiron  to  prevent  scorching. 

Baked  Eels. — Eels  are  very  temjpting,  cut  in  small  strips  and 
laid  in  a  deep  dish  with  bits  of  salt  pork.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.    Cover  well  with  bread-crumbs  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Eel  Chowder. — For  two  persons :  Take  1  poiimd  eels,  cut  Op 
and  cover  with  <1  quart  cold  water,  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  let  boil  3 
minutes ;  skim  out ;  take  a  frying-pan  and  put  2  slices  fat  salt  pork 
cut  in  dice  and  fry  oul;  a  little ;  then  1  onion,  medium  size ;  cut  fine 
and  cook  with  the  pork  2  minutes ;  pour  all  into  a  porcelain  kettle 
and  add  the  water  the  eels  were  boiled  in;  3  medium'-sized  potatoes 
cut  in  dice;  put  in  and  boil  about  5  minutes ;  pick  the  eels  from  the 
bones  and  put  in  when  potatoes  are  done ;  heat  1  pint  milk  in  separate 
dish  (be  sure' the  milk  will  not  turn  and  spoil  chowder);  season  with 
more  salt  if  needed ;  pepper  and  buttei'  to  taste ;  remove  all  from  fire 
and  pour  milk  in ;  serve  at  once ;  this  is  very  rich ;  if  oyster-crackers 
are  heated  iti  the  oven  5  minutes  before  serving  they  are  nicer  for 
stews.  (For  all  kinds  of  fish  sauces  see  department  of  "  Sauces  and 
Gravies."    For  fish  "  salads  "  see  department  of  "  Salads.") 


To  select  poultry,  choose  those 
that  are  fresh  and  fat.  To  deter- 
mine whether  they  are  young,  try 
the  skin  under  the  wing  or  leg; 
iSff?*'"''''*''  if  easily  broken,  it  is  young :  or  turn  the  wine 
backwards,  and  if  it  yields  easily,  it  is  tender; 
or  press  the  lower  end  of  the  breastbone ;  it 
it  bends  to  the  touch  the  fowl  is  young,  as  in  a  young  fowl  this  lower, 
tip  is  not  yet  bone,  but  a  gristly  substance.  Moreover,  there  is  a 
simpler  and  better  test,  which  applies  to  all  undressed  fowls  and  game. 
When  they  have  been  killed  for  a  long  time,  the  eyes  are  sunken. 

Choose  a  yellow-skinned  fowl,  and  a  hen  bird  is  preferable,  as 
having  the  finer  flavor,  and  being  more  profitable  on  account  of  their 
shorter,  broader  shape,  thus  giving  more  meat  in  proportion  to  the 
weight.     The  hen  turkey  is  especially  fine  for  boiling. 

Chickens  only  shoijld  be  scalded.  Other  fowls  and  game  should 
be  picked  dry  until  the  feathers  are  removed.  _  Singe  to  remove  the 
down  and  hair.  Chickens  or  fowls  should  always  be  purchased  dry 
picked.  Though  they  do,  not  look  as  plump  and  full  as  the  scalded 
poultry,  they  are  jucier  and  sweeter.  Giblets  of  a  fowl  are  the  neck, 
pinions,  gizzard,  heart  and  liver ;  to  this  list  some  cooks  add  the  head 
and  feet. 

All  kinds  of  poultry  and  meat  can  be  pooked  quicker  by  adding 
to  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  a  little  vinegar  or  piece  of 
lemon ;  a  piece  of  soda  (baking),  the  size  of  a  pea,  will  answer  the 
same  purpose.  A  tainted  .fowl  will  lose  the  bad  taste  or  odor,  if 
cooked  in  this  manner;  if  not  used  too  freely,  no  taste. will  be  ac- 
quired.    One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  will  usually  prove  sufficient 

In  roasting  or  boiling  whole  any  fowl,  truss  it,  which  means-to  draw 
the  thighs  close  to-the  body,  cross  the  legs  at  the  tail,  and  tie  firmly 
to  the  body  with  twine,  which  is  removed  before  serving ;  or,  pass 
the  legs  through  a  slit  in  the  skin,  near  the  tail.  Skewer  the  wings 
close  to  the  body.  To  broil,  split  the  body  down  the  back  and 
lay  it  open.    In  cutting  up  fowls  for  fricassee,  do  not  break  the  bones'i 

127 


128  POULTRY. 

cut  the  joints.  Fowls  with  white  meat  should  be  well  cooked;  wi|^; 
dark  meat,  if  the  individual  taste  prefer,  they  may  be  slightly  under- 
done.    As  a  rule,  however,  fowls  should  be  well  done. 

In  roasting  a  chicken  or  small  fowl,  there  is  danger  of  the  legs 
browning,  and  becoming  too  hard  to  be  eaten.  To  avoid  this,  take 
strips  of  cloth,  dip  them  in  a  little  melted  lard,  or  even  just  rub  them 
over  with  lard,  and  wind  them  around  the  legs.  Remove  them  in 
time  to  allow  the  legs  to  brown  delicately. 

Again,  when  roasting  a  chicken,  first  cut.  off  the  "  drumsticks  "  and 
lay  them  in  the  pan  beside  the  fowl ;  when  donfe  they  will  be  tender 
and  juicy,,instead  of  being  dry,  tough  and  scorched,  as  they  usually 
are.  None  of  these  plans  will  be  necessary,  however,  if  one  has  a 
regular  roastirig-pan.  Even  two  pans  of  the  same  size  make  a  very 
fair  substitute,  by  using  one  as  a  cover  for  the  other. 

Turkeys  should  be  bought  with  white  meat  and  black  legs.  As 
they  advance  in  years  their  legs  get  red.  Chicken  turkeys  are  one  of 
the  most  esteemed  luxuries  in  the  market,  and  whether  they  are  best 
roasted  and  stuffed  with  chestnuts  and  sausages,  so  that  the  crisp  skin 
is  fairly  bursting  with  sg,voriness,  or  boiled  with  a  celery  sauccj  so 
that  each  mouthful  fairly  melts  in  the  mouth,  epicures  find  it  hard  to 
decide. 

Steam  or  parboil  an  old  fowl  before  roasting,  not  adding  stuffing  until 
it  goes  in  the  oveii,  but  putting  a  few  sticks  of  celery  inside  to  flavor 
it.  To  test  whether  a  fowl  is  done,  slit  the  skin  a  little  between  the 
leg  and  body  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  if  the  flesh  there  be  still  raw 
looking,  the  bifd  is  not  cooked  enough. 

To  Dress  Poultry. — The  manner  of  preparing  chickens  and 
turkeys  is  the  same,  except  that  with  turkeys  the  sinews  should  be 
drawn  from  the  legs.  This  is  accomplished  by  cutting  the  skin  round 
at  the  joint  where  the  foot  unites  with  the  drumstick  and  twist  the 
two  pieces  a  little  to  bring  out  the  white  tendons.  There  are  a  few  in 
front  and  a  large  bunch  at  the  back  of  the  legsinclosecf  in  a  thin  layer 
of  muscle-like  membrane  that  makes  ^hem  look  like  one  large  muscle. 
Scrape  off  the  thick  layer  and  divide  the  tendon  into  its  small  parts, 
and  they  may  be  drawn  out  one  by  one  by  passing  a  fork  or  skewer 
under  them  and  pulling  vigorously.  The  despised  drumstick  is 
now  a  dainty  piece  of  dark  but  tender  meat,  which  may  even  be 
breaded  and  cooked  by  itself  as  a  specially  choice  dish  in  various 


POULTRY. 


129 


vrays.  Even  where  it  is  served  with  other  cuts,  |ricassee,  stew, 
roast  or  broil,  the  sinews  should  always  be  removed.  Pick  the  fowl 
carefully,  singe  by  twisting  a  newspaper,  not  too  tightly,  and  letting 
the  flame  flare  up  out  of  a  hole  on  top  of  the  range.  Turn  and  re- 
turn the  fowl  over 
this,  and  the  result 
will  be  most  satis- 
factory. To  draw 
the  fowl,  make  an 
incision  at  the 
lower  part  of  the 
breast  bone.  Cut 
off  the  oil-bag  and 
remove  the  en- 
trails, preserving 
heart,  '  liver  and 
gizzard.  Carefully ' 
remove  the  gall- 
bag  from  the  liver ; 
if  it  should  be 
.broken,  it  will  im- 
part its  intense  bit- 
terness to  all  the  Improved  BoaBter  and  Baker. 

organ.  Make  an  incision  through  the  thick  part  and  first  lining  of 
the  gizzard,  peeling  off  the  fleshy  part.  Clean  the  heart,  and  throw 
them  all  into  slightly  salted  water.  Cut  off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint, 
and  if  it  be  a  turkey  or  a  chicken  a  year  old,  remove  the  tendons  of 
the  drumsticks  according  to  directions  given  above.  Cut  a  slit  in  the 
neck  and  remove  the  crop  and  the  wind-pipe  and  wash  the  fowl  care- 
fully inside;  rinsing  in  salt  water  is  desirable;  cut  off  the  pinions  or 
thumb  joints  of  the  wings  and  the  neck  and  add  them  to  the  giblets. 
Draw  the  skin  of  the  neck  together  and  tie.  '.■ 

Glaze  for  Cold  Poultry  or  Meat. — Meat  and  poultry,  to  be  served 
cold,  may  be  very  much  improved  in  appearance  by  being  glazed. 
The  process  is  very  simple.  An  excellent  glaze  maybe  made  of  half 
an  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  flavored  as  well 
as  colored  with  extract  of  beef.  To  be  successful  the  meat  must 
he  perfectly  cold  brfore  the  glaze  is  put  on.  and  the -first  coating 

COOK— 9 


130  POULTRY. 

should  be  allowed  to  dry  before  the  second  is  applied.     The  glaze 
must  be  well  melted  and  warm  and  applied, With  a  brush. 

Turkey. 

Koast  Turkey. — Select  a  young  gobbler,  as  a  hen  turkey  is  not 
as  finely  flavored,  and  to  heighten  this  rich  flavor  have  it  dry  picked. 
If  the  turkey  has  been  carefully  drawn,  wipe  out  the  inside  thoroughly 
with  a  damp  cloth.  Washing  with  much 'water  extracts  the  delicate 
juices.  If  not  very  tender,  par  boil  for  an  hour  before  roasting  or 
stuffing.  After  the  turkey  has  been  filled,  not  too  tightly,  with  the 
kind  of  dressing  decided  upon,  sew  up  with  twine,  draw  the  legs 
firmly  against  the  body,  fold  the  wings  under  jthe  back  and  tie  all 
firmly  together  with  clean  cotton  cord.  Grease  the  bird  well  with 
butter,  place  it  in  a  hot  oven  to  sear  quickly  to  prevent  the  juices 
escaping  during  the  roasting.  Some  cooks  save  a  piece  of  the  turkey 
fat,  and  fasten  that  with  wooden  tooth-picks  over  the  breast  bone. 
When  seared,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water  to  the  pan  and  baste 
frequently.  Twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  is  the  usual  length  oiF 
time  allowed  for  roasting.  Serve  with  giblct  gravy,  and  cranberry,; 
plum,  or  currant  jelly  should  always  go  with  it.  Sw6et  potatoes  are 
a  suitable  vegetable  to  go  with  it.  The  old  Virginia  style  of  sur- 
rounding the  turkey  when  dished  with  small,  fried  sausages  no  larger 
than  a  dollar,  interspersed  with  tiny  cucumbej  pickles,  still  finds  favor 
with  a  conservative  few.  Small  link  sausages  are  also  used  for 
garnishing. 

Giblet  Gravy. — Boil  the  giblets  in  salted  water;  when  done  chop 
fine  and  return  to  the  water  in  which  tliey  were  boiled.  After  the 
turkey  has ,  been  lifted  to  its  hot  platter,  skim  the  grease  from  the 
gravy  in  the  roasting  pan,  turn  ia  the  chopped  giblets,  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  let  boil,  add  a  spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

Turkey  -with.  Oyster  Pressing. — An  oyster  dressing  is  cpnsid- 
ered  by  all  lovers  of  the  bivalve  a  great  addition  to  this  king  of  birds. 
Add  to  one-half  loaf  of  stale  baker's  bread  one-half  cupful  of  melted 
butter ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  couple  of  stalks  of  celery 
chopped  fine  are  an  addition.  Strain  one  quart  of  oysters  carefully 
froni  the  liquor,  stir  into  dressing  and  moisten  with  half  of  the  oyster 
liquor,  adding  enough  water  to  make  the  right  consistency ;  do  not 
make  a  paste  of  it.    Fill  the  turkey  with  this  mixture,  sew  up,  butter 


POULtRY.  181 

tfie  breast  or  fasten  on  a  piece  of  turkey  fat,  baste  frequently  vtrith  the 
remainder  of  the  oyster  liquor ;  if  there  is  not  enough,  weaken  it  with 
a  little  water.  Roast  according  to  first  rule  for  turkey.  Some  cooks 
bind  this  dressing  by  mixing  in  a  beaten  egg,  and  use  milk  for  moist' 
ening  instead  of  water.  Sometimes,  where  oysters  are  scarce,  a  couple 
dozen  fresh  oysters  finely  minced  may  be  stirred  into  the  dressing, 
simply  as  flavoring,  and  the  moistening  done  with  water,  or  water  and 
milk.  Where  an  oyster  dressing  is  used  the  bird  may  be  garnished 
with  large  carefully  fried  oysters.  In  helping  give  one  oyster  with 
each  portion  of  meat  served.  Some  professional  cooks  clain^  that  the 
fat  drawn  from  the  bird,  melted  and  used  in  place  of  butter,  gives  a 
more  delicate  flavor  to  the  stuffing.  Oyster  sauce  is  nice  to  serve 
with  this  roast  turkey. 

Sausage  Dressing-  for  Turkeys. — To  2}^  pounds  of  common 
crackers,  rolled  out  a  few  at  a  time  on  a  bread  board  until  quite  fine, 
add  enough  of  spiced  seasoning  to  give  the  proper  flavor  to  the  dress- 
ing, a  piece  of  butter,  salt,  1  or  2  unbeaten  eggs  (if  you  have  to  spare) 
and  1  pound  of  best  raw  sausage,  with  the  skins  removed  before  adding 
to  the  mixture,  which  is  now  ready  to  thoroughly  mix  with  your 
hands.  After  this,  moisten  gradually  with  clear  water,  only  enough 
to  have  adhere  lightly  together,  using  a^  spoon,  and  do. not  make  a 
paste  of  it.  This  is  a  delicious  dressing,  a  more  toothsome  dainly  than 
the  fowl  itself,  and  will  do  for  roast  meats  where  a  dressing  is  used. 

Old-Fashioned  Stuffing  for  Turkey  or  Chicken. — Crumb  up 
1  loaf  of  stale  bread,  mix  it  with  a  half  cup  of  butter,  1  egg,  salt, 
pepper,  sage  and  thyme  or  celery  to  taste,  all  brought  to  the  con- 
sistency of  mush  by  the  addition  of  hot  water.  Thorough  epicures 
never  use  sage  in  dressing,  claiming  that  it  injures  the  delicate  flavor 
of  the  fowl. 

Giblet  Dressing. — Take  the  gizzard,  heart  and  liver  of  the  turkey, 
boil  till  tender,  take  them  and  three-quarter  pound  of  salt  pork ;  chop 
all  together,  then  take  8  or  10  crackers,  roll  fine,  add  to  the  chopped 
meat ;  then  add  pepper  and  salt  and  sage,  or  prepared  seasoning,  and 
wet  it  up  with  the  water  in  which  the,  giblets  were  boiled.  This 
makes  a  delicious  dressing.  If  an  onion  flavor  is  liked,  chop  up  1 
onion  and  add. 

Turkey  with  Chestnut  Stuffing. — Most  delicious  of  all  is  a 
chestnut  stufifing,  the  rich  nuts  giving  a  peculiarly  delicate  taste  to 


132  POULTRY, 

the  fowl.  To  make  it  shell  a  quart  of  chestnuts.  Put  them  in  hot 
water  and  boil  until  the  skins  are  softened,  then  drain  off  the  water 
and  remove  the  skins.  Replace  the  blanched  chestnuts  in  water  and 
boil  until  soft.  Take  out  a  few  at  a  time  and  press  them  through  a 
colander  or  potato  press.  They  will  mash  more  easily  when  hot. 
Season  the  mashed  chestnuts  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  quaifter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Moisten 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  or  a  very  little  soup  stock.  Mix  with  a 
plain  dressiiig  of  butter  and  bread  crumbs  moistened  to  the  right  con- 
sistency with  hot  water. , 

In  filling  the  turkey  do  not  crowd  in-the  'stuffing.  Sew  up  the 
openings  and  tie  or  skewer  the  legs  and  wings  in  shape.  Rub  thickly 
with  butter  and  salt  and  dredge  with  flour.  Place  in  a  dripping-pan, 
and  put  half  a  cup  of  water  in  the  pan.  Use  a  moderate  oven,  and, 
cover  the  turkey  with  another  pan  for  the  first  forty  minutes.  Baste 
frequently  and  turn  the  bird  occasionally  to  expose  all  parts  to  the 
heat.  It  should  be  tender  and  moist  and  a  golden  brown  all  over 
when  done.  Garnish  the  dish  with  small  balls  of  fried  sausage  or 
fried  oysters  and  pa,rsley.  Serve  with  a  giblet  dressing  and  cran- 
berries.    Cooked  chestnuts  are  nice  to  serve  with  it. 

Stuffing. — Two  dozen  fresh  oysters,  3  good-sized  potatoes,  mashed 
fine ;  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  sage — a  pinch — 2  ounces  of  butter, 
mixed  with  2  cupfuls  of  dry  bread  crumbs ;  a  little  cream  to  moisten. 
Fill  the  turkey  and  plkce  it  in  a  covered  baking-pan,  in  which  is  placed 
a  little  nutmeg,  3  bay  leaves,  some  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  onion 
arid  2  cups  of  water,  and  roast  in  a  well-heated  oven  from  3  to  4  hours, 
according  to  size.     Baste  every  20  or  30  minutes  and  turn  twice. 

Boast  Turkey  without  StuflSng. — Epicures  pronounce  the  flavor 
of  turkey  prepared  in  this  manner  superior  to  that  where  stuffing  is 
used.  Dress  in  the  usual  manner ;  cleanse  by  carefully  wiping  the 
inside  with  a  soft,  damp  cloth.  Turn  the  wings  against  the  back  at 
the  first  joint,  and  secure  the.  legs  closely  to  the  sides  with  cord. 
Place  the  turkey  in  a  sauce  pan,  dust  over  it  a  little  pepper,  and  lay 
upon  the  breast  a  large  piece  of  butter.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  very 
hot  oven ;  do  not  put  any  water  in  the  pan,  but  baste  with  the  oil 
that  fries  out  and  the  melted  butter.  After  the  half  hour  cook  slowly 
and  steadily,  allowing  20  minutes  for  each  pound.  Fifteen  minutes 
before  removing  from  oven  sprinkle  ¥/ith  salt.  Serve  with  giblet  gravy. 


POULTRY. 


133 


Boiled  Turkey. — Many  old-fashioned  cooks  and  some  of  the  new- 
fashioned  consider  that  the  proper  way  to  cook  a  turkey  is  to  boil  it 
To  do  this  singe,  draw  and  wash  the  turkey  thoroughly,  wipe  with  a 
soft  cloth  and  rub  the  inside  with  salt.  Make  a  stuffing  of  1  quart  of 
bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  chopped 
parsley,  and  mix  the  ingredients  together  with  an  egg.  Chop  up 
several  stalks  of  celery  and  add.  Fill  the  breast  of  the  fowl  with 
some  of  this  stuffing  and  put  the  remainder  into  the  body.  Tie  the 
legs  and  T/vings  close  to  the  body  and  place  it  in  salted  boiling  water 
with  the  breast  downward.  Boil  rapidly  the  first  half  hour,  then  draw 
it  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Serve  with 
celery  or  chestnut  sauce.  If  oysters  chopped  are  used  in  the  stuffing, 
serve  with  an  oyster  sauce.  Bread  sauce  is  also  used  by  some  cooks. 
An  old-fashioned  custom  was  to  serve  ham  or  smoked  tongue  with  a 
boiled  turkey. 

Boned  Turkey  Boasted. — ^An  easy  way  to^  bone  a  turkey  is  to 
slit  the  skin  down  the  back  with  a  sharp  knife  and,  raising  one  side 
at  a  time,  with  the  fin- 
gers separate  the  flesh 
from  the  bones  until 
the  wings  and  legs  are 
reached;  unjoint these 
from  the  body,  and  cut- 
ting through  the  bone, 
turn  back  the  flesh  and 
remove  the  bones.  The 
flesh  may  be  re-shaped 
by  stuffing.  Stuff"  with 
force-meat  made  of  veal 
and  a  little  pork  chop- 
ped fine,  and  season! 
with  salt,  pepper,  sage  ' 
or  savory,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Sew  in 
shape,  and  press  the 
wings  and  legs  close  to  the  body,  and  tie  all  firmly  so  that  the  upper 
surface  may  be  smooth  and  plump.  Lard  the  breast  with  narrow 
strips  of  firm,  fat  pork,  and  bake  until  thoroughly  done,  basting  often 


134  POULTRY. 

with  salt  and  water  and  a  little  butter.    Serve  with  a  giblet  dressing, 
to  which  has  been  added  a  cup  of  strained  tomatoes. 

Braised  Turkey. — Truss  and  stuff  as  for  roasting,  using  a  force- 
meat made  of  minced  chicken  or  veal,  mushrooms  and  sweetbreads, 
in  addition  to  the  bread ;  lard  the  breast  with  fine,  square  shreds  of 
fat  salt  pork ;  place  the  turkey  in  a  stewpan,  breast  uppermost,  with 
sliced  vegetables  and  sufficient  broth  to  cover.  Set  it  on  top  of  the. 
stove,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  simmer  put  into  the  oven  and  cook 
slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Baste  occasionally  with  the  gravy. 
Garnish  the  turkey  with  stoned  olives^and  thicken  the  gravy. 

Turkey,  or  Chicken,  Jellied. — ^Two  cups  of  stock,  in  whicli  an 
onion,  celery  and  bay  leaf  have  been  boiled ;  one-half  pint  of  water, 
jne-fourth  package  of  gelatine,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  tableapoonful 
of  brown  caramel ;  dissolve  the  jelly  in  the  stock  and  water,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  place  some  of  the  jelly  in  a  mould,  add  pieces  of 
light  and  dark  meat  of  boiled  turkey  or  chicken,  add  more  jelly,  then 
meat  till  the  mould  is  full.     Serve  garnished  with  celery. 

To  Cook  an  Old  Turkey,  or  Other  Fowl. — No  flesh,  however 
tough,  can  resist  five  hours'  steaming  in  a  close  kettle.  A  monstrous 
turkey,  whose  years  were  beyond  comparison,  was  once  accommo- 
iated  with  a  position  in  a  big  wash-boiler,  turned  for  the  occasion  into 
a  steamer  by  a  structure'  of  coarse  wire  fence  netting  near  the  bottom. 
After  half-a-day  spent  in  this  steam  bath,  it  was  taken  out,  disjointed 
and  the  pieces  dipped  in  melted  butter,  dredged  thickly  with  flour  and 
then  fried  in  boiling  fat,  as  doughnuts  are  fried.  An  epicure  v^uld 
not  have  disdained  the  dish. 

Scalloped  Turkey. — Moisten  bread  crumbs  with  a  little  milk; 
butter  a  pan  and  put  in  a. layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  turkey,  cut 
in  dice,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
and  some  add  a  little  chopped  cold  potato  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is 
full.  ,  If  any  dressing  or  gravy  has  been  left,  add  it.  Make  a  thick- 
ening of  one  or  two  eggs,  half  cup  of  milk  and  one-quarter  cup  each 
butter  and  bread  crumbs ;  season  and  spread  over  the  top ;  cover  with 
a  pan ;  bake  half  an  hour,  and  then  let  brown.  Or,  instead  of  the 
milk  to  moisten,  make  a  broth  from  the  bones,  skimming  them  out, 
thicken  a  little  and  pour  over  before  spreading  over  the  top  dressing. 

Turkey  Bagout. — An  appetizing  way  of  using  bits  of  turkey  cold 
Is  thus !  Take  the  pieces  of  turkey  and  free  them  from  bone  and 


POULTRY.  135 

skin ;  if  there  are  any  good-sized  pieces,  cut  them  in  bits.  Put  the 
meat  in  a  sauce-pan  with  whatever  stuffing  and  dressing  may  have 
been  left  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Season  liberally  with  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper.      Place  over  the  fire  and  let  boil. 

Turkey,  Moulded. — Prepare  exactly  as  above.  Place  over  the 
fire,  and  when  the  mixture  boils  break  into  it  .an  egg  and  stir 
thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould,  and  when  cold  turn  it  out 
into  a  dish  and  slice  nicely. 

Turkey  Pie. — Cut  up  fine,  put  in  baking-dish  with  bits  of  butter, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  one  cup  of  water  or 
stock ;  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  over  which  pour 
two  well-beaten  eggs.    Bake  until  brown  on  top. 

Turkey  Hash. — Cut  the  remnants  of  turkey,  from  a  previous 
dinner,  into  small  pieces.  Boil  the  bones  jn  a  quart  of  water  until 
the  quart  is  reduced  to  a  pint ;  then  take  out  the  bones,  and  add  to 
the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  what  turkey-gravy  remains  or  some 
stock,  or  a  small  piece  of  butter,  together  with  salt  and  pepper ;  let 
it  boil  up;  put  in  the  pieces  of  turkey;  add  what  dressing  was  left,- 
or  dredge  with  a  little  flour.     Let  boil  again,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Chicken. 

Boast  Chicken. — Dress,  singe  and  prepare  for  stuffing  same  as 
turkey.  Stuff  with  giblet  dressing,  oyster  dressing,  old-fashioned  or 
any  other  preferred  dressing  as  given  for  turkeys.  Fill  the  breast  of 
the  chicken  in  at  the  neck  until  plump  and  even,  draw  the  neck  skin 
together,  tie  closely,  place  remainder  of  stuffing  in  at  the  other  end 
and  sew  up  the  incision ;  draw  the  thighs  up  close  to  the  body,  and 
tie  the  legs  crossed  over  the  tail  firmly  with  twine.  Fasten  the  wings 
to  the  body  with  skewers.  Rub  the  chicken  all  over  with  a  little 
butter  with  the  ends  of  the  fingers,  and  also  a  little  salt.  Dredge 
well,  but  not  too  thickly,  with  flour.  Place  in  your  dripping-pan  on 
the  raised  grate,  first  placing  two  of  thinnest  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  on 
the  grate  to  keep  the  chicken  from  sticking.  Place  on  the  breast  and 
thighs  the  thinnest  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  (with  no  streak  of  lean),  keep- 
ing them  in  place  by  sticking  a  wooden  toothpick  in  them.  Have 
the  oven  hot.    Allow  15  minutes  to  the  pound  for  baking. 

Don't  put  any  water  in  the  dripping-pan  at  first.  Allow  the  flour 
»o  brown  ,nicely,  and  the  juice  from  the  fat  to  get  hot  iand  brown. 


136  POULTRY. 

When  well  browned  pour  a  cup  of  boiling  water  or  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  butter  and  a  little  sal't,  and  baste  the  chicken  with  it.  Repeat 
this  occasionally,  but  add  no  more  water  unless  it  should  all  cook 
away.  When  one  side  is  browned,  turn  other  side,  then  on  the  back 
till  breast  is  nicefy  browned.  Dredge  with  flour  again  about  15  min- 
utes before  serving,  and  baste  well.  If  it  should  get  too  brown  before 
being  well  cooked,  lay  a  buttered  brown  paper  over  it.  Make  a  gib- 
let  sauce  according  to  rule  before  given,  or  a  plain  gravy  in  the  pan, 
by  turning  off  part  of  the  fat,  adding  sufficient  water  and  thickening 
with  a  little  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  cold  water  or  milk. 

Chicken  Dressing's. — Use  any  of  the  dressings  given  for  turkeys. 

CMcken  Sauces  or  Gravies. — Use  any  of  the  gravies  or  sauces 
given  for  turkeys. 

Boned  Chicken. — Prepare  the  same  as  for  boned  turkey. 

BoUed  Chickens. — Prepare  same  as  boiled  turkey. 

Boiled  Chicken  with  Oysters.  —  Pick  and  clean  two  plump 
chickens ;  dress  as  for  roasting ;  rub  over  some  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  little  celery  seed ;  fill  the  inside  with  oysters ;  secure  the  ends  of 
the  chickens  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  that  has  a  tight  lid ;  place 
this  in  another  containing  boiling  water;  keep  it  boiling  until  the 
chickens  are  tender;  then  take  them  out;  stir  into  the  gravy  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  one-quarter  pint  of  cream;  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper;  let  the  sauce  get  very  hot,  but  do  not  allow  it  to 
toil,  or  it  will  curdle.     Serve  immediately. 

Baked  Chicken  with  Kice. — Cut  a  chicken  into  pieces  in  the 
usual  manner,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  in  a  deep  dish 
lined  with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  ham,  or  bacon  according  to  taste. 
Add  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  into  which  has  been  stirred  1  finely-chopped 
onion,  and  fill  the  dish  with  boiled  rice,  heaping  slightly.  To  protect 
from  the  direct  heat  of  the  oven,  cover  with  a  paste,  which  may  be 
economically  made  of  flour  and  water.  Bake  for  an  hour,  remove 
the  paste,  and  serve  while  hot. 

Chicken  Fricassee. — Cut  a  well-cleaned  chicken  of  3  or  4  pounds 
into  10  pieces  and  place  in  A  saucepan.  Add  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  onions;  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  cook  till  tender;  then  mix  1  tablespoonful  flour  with  1  ounce 
butter,  and  add  it  to  the  fricassee.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  mix 
1  pint  of  prepared  flour  with  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  cup- 


POULTRY.  137 

ful  of  milk,  2  whole  eggs  beaten  into  a  stiff  batter :  cut  with  a  table- 
spoon small  portions  from  the  batter,  drop  them  into  the  fricassee^ 
cover  and  boil  6  minutes ;  then  remove  instantly  the  saucepan  to  side 
of  stove,  where  they  stop  boiling.  In  serving  arrange  the  chicken 
on  a  warm  dish  and  lay  the  dumplings  in  a  circle  around  it.  Sprinkle 
1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  over  the  whole  and  serve.  The 
batter  will  make  12  good-sized  dumplings. 

Brown  Fricassee  of  CMcken. — Cut  the  chicken  in  11  pieces. 
Place  2  ounces  of  butter. in  a  saucepan;  when  a  nice  brown  put  in  the 
chicken.  Stir  till  every  piece  is  nicely  browned,  then  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  again,  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water  on  stock, 
stir  until  it  boils ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover  and  let  simmer 
gently  until  tender,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice  and  a  little  black 
pepper.  Dish.  Put  the  neck  piece,  heart,  liver,  gizzard  and  back 
pieces  in  the  centre  of  the  dish;  put  the  two  breast  pieces  on  top,  the 
second  joint,  on  each  side  of  the  plate,  the  legs  crossed  on  the  other, 
and  a  wing  at  each  end.  Pour  the  sauce  over,  sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley  and  serve. 

Fricasseed  Chicken  witli  Oysters. — Boil  a  chicken  or  fowl  until 
tender,  first  cutting  it  into  small  pieces.  Take  up  the  pieces  and  fry 
them  in  butter.  Boil  the  water  iuvwhich  the  chicken  was  cooked 
down  to  1  pint,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
and  flour  to  thicken.  Drop  a  pint  of  oysters  into  the  butter  that  the 
chicken  was  fried  in  and  cook  until  the  edges  curl,  then  pour  into  the 
sauce  with  half  a  cup  of  cream  added  the  last  thing.  Boil  up  and 
pour  over  the  chicken. 

Dumplings  for  Fricasseed  CMckens.-X-One  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour  put  into  the  sieve,  into  which  put>l  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2 
scant  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  sift 
twice,  then  add  two-third  cups  of  sweet  milk ;  mix  light,  handling  as 
little  as  possible ;  roll  half  inch  thick ;  cut  with  a  knife  into  small 
squares ;  sift  a  little  flour  over  (very  little).  Then  after  the  soup  or 
stew  is  rightly  seasoned  and  boiling  well,  lay  the  dumplings  on  top, 
covering  tightly,  and  let  theni  boil  for  15  minutes  without  removing 
the  cover.     Have  it  set  off"  where  it  will  not  burn  or  stick  on. 

Kentucky  Chicken. — Cut  a  fat  hen  into  pieces  and  stew,  add 
plenty  of  milk,  thickening  and  butter,  to  make  a  good  deal  of  rich 
gravy.    Split  little  baking-powder  biscuits,  lay  on  the  platter  and 


138  POULTRY. 

arrange  the  chicken  and  sauce  over  them.  Edge  the  platter  with 
thin  slices  of  salt  pork  dipped  in  flour  and  fried. 

Brunswick  Stew. — This  is  a  Virginia  concoction,  and  very  pala- 
table it  is  too.  A  medium  sized  chicken  cut  as  for  frying,  a  potato  for 
each  member  of  the  family,  2  ears  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  a  gen- 
erous handful  of  lima  beans,  and  three  nice  round  tomatoes.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  The  chicken  is  first  parboiled  and  then  the 
vegetables  added,  and  the  whole  cooked  an  hour  and  a  half  longer. 
It  may  sound  messy,  but  it  tastes  good.  It  is  served  in  a  deep  platter 
and  the  only  other  vegetable  used  is  rice^this  last  not  mushy,  but 
where  each  grain  stands  out  by  itself. 

CMcken  Stewed  with.  Potatoes. — Prepare  and  cook  chicken  in 
same  manner  as  for  chicken  pie ;  just  before  chicken  is  quite  done 
pare  quantity  of  new  potatoes,  lay  them  on  top  of  chicken,  let  them 
boil  until  done;  then  take  potatoes  up  on  plate  by  themselves,  turn 
-pint  of  sweet  milk  in  with  chicken,  thicken  with  flour,  wet  with  sweet 
«iilk,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  plenty  of  butter. 

Chicken  Stewed  with  Tomato. — ^Cut  up  the  chicken  and  fry  at 
lightly,  then  make  a  rich  brown  gravy  by  dredging  a  little  flour  into 
the  butter  in  which  the  chicken  was  fried.  Put  in  sufficient  water  to 
make  a  bowl  of  gravy.  Cut  up  the  tomatoes  (there  should  be  a  quart 
after  they  are  skinned)  and  a  medium-sized  onion,  add  to  them  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper.  When  all  are  well 
mixed  put  in  the  chicken,  pouring  in  the  gravy.  Let  stew  for  two 
hours.  Then  put  in  a  pint  bowl  of. rice  and  let  it  stew  slowljr  an 
hour  longer.     It  should  be  a  moist  stew.    .' 

Chicken  Stew,  Creole  Style. — ^Three  pullets,  1  quart  of  tomatoes 
(fresh  or  canned),  6  green  pepper  pods,  1  quart  stewed  peas,  1  onion, 
1  slice  boiled  ham.  Joint  the  chickens  and  stew  them  together  with 
the  peppers,  ham  and  onion  in  enough  water  to  cover  them  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bones.  Remove  the  chicken  to  a  large  dish  and 
keep  hot.  Strain  the  broth,  put  the  tomatoes  in  the  liquor  and  stew 
down  thick,  season  with  salt.  Add  the  peas  while  hot.  Pour  the 
stewed  tomato  over  the  chicken,  then  the  peas. 

Maryland  Fried  Chicken. — Cut  up  the  chicken  in  joints,  salt 
and  pepper,  put  in  stew  pan,  add^  enough  hot  water  to  keep  from 
burning ;  cover  closely  and  set  on  back  of  stove  to  steam  for  one 
hour.    Have  ready  a  hot  spider,  remove  chicken  from  saucepan  and 


POULTRY.  1S9 

brown  in  butter  or  lard,  as  desired ;  when  all  the  chicken  is  browned 
and  removed  to  a  hot  platter  then  pour  in  the  spider  any  liquid  that 
may  remain  in  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  previously 
mixed  to  smooth  batter,  1^  pints  of  milk  and  some  parsley  chopped 
fine ;  boil  all  together,  season  sauce  to  suit  taste  and  pour  over 
chicken.  By  this  method  the  chicken  retains  its  fine  flavor,  is  thor- 
oughly cooked,  tender  and  delicious,  without  being  dry,  hard  or  un- 
derdone, as  is  so  often  the  case  with  fried  chicken. 

Chickens  Fried  In  Batter. — Choose  a  fine  chicken,  cut  it  into 
pieces,  dip  them  into  egg  batter ;  bake  them  in  the  oven  in  clear  hot 
butter  for  about  15  minutes.  If  the  chicken  is  parboiled  before  frying 
or  baking,  there  will  be  no  danger  of fhe  chicken  being  underdone. 

Broiled  Chicken. — Clean,  dress,  singe,  etc.  Cut  down  the  mid- 
dle of  the  back  with  a  sharp  knife,  remove  the  contents  and  clean 
thoroughly.  Lay  down  upon  a  clean  board  and  pound  with  a  pestle 
to  break  the  bones  enough  to  make  it  lay  flat.  Sprinkle  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  all  over  with  the  fingers  some  soft  butter. 
Broil  over  a  hot  fire,  constantly  turning — or  better  still,  pin  nicely  in 
buttered  brown  paper  and  broil,  turning  every  few  minutes,  being 
careful  not  to  scorch  the  paper.  See  that  the  paper  is  pinned  in  such 
a  way  as  to,prevent  any  of  the  juice  escaping.  Or,  prepare  as  above 
and  sprinkle  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  a  good 
half  hour. 

Baked  Chicken.' — Split  a  dressed  chicken  down  the  back,  put  it 
in  a  baking-pan,  chicken,  inside  down.  Cover  with  strips  of  salt  pork, 
pepper,  salt  and  bake.  It  will  be  found  delicious.  Take  up,  pour  off 
the  fat  from  the  pan  graVy,  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  let  boil  up. 

Chicken  Pie. — Take  a  pair  of  fat  chickens ;  prepare  and  disjoint 
them.  Put  in  a  stew-pan  and  season  highly  with  salt,  black  pepper 
and  a  little  cayenne;  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  cover  well  with  cold 
water;  stew  over  ai  slow  fire  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Line  the  sides 
of  a  deep  baking  dish  with  a  nice  crust.  Lay  the  chicken  in  the  dish, 
removing  the  largest  bones.  Pour  in  half  the  gravy^  jdredge  lightly 
with  flour,  and  add  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Roll  out  the  upper  crust, 
cover  carefully,  being  sure  to  leave  an  opening  in  the  top.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven  about  an  hour.  Before  sending  to  table  pour  in  the 
remainder  of  the  hot  gravy.  This  pie  is  equally  good  made  of  cold 
chicken.    Put  the  meat  in  layers,  dredging  flour  and  seasoning  over 


140  POULTRY. 

each,  pour  in  some  of  the  broth  or  gravy  in  which  the  fowl  was 
cooked.  Line  the  dish  with  paste  and  cover  as  before.  Add  bits  of 
butter  before  putting  on  the  crust.  ^ 

Chicken  Pie  with  Oysters. — Boil  a  g©od-size,d  chicken  until 
tender,  drain  off  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters.  Line  the  sides 
and  bottom  of  a  large,  round  pan  with  crust,  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters 
and  a  layer  of  chicken  until  the  pan  is  full.  Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
bits  of  cottolene  and  the  oyster  liquor,  add  some  of  the  chicken 
liquor.     Cover  with  crust  and  bake.    Serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

Chicken  Pot-Pie. — Cut  up  the  chicken  as  for  chicken  pie,  put  it 
in  a  kettle,  cover  it  with  water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  boil  until  done ; 
have  ready  a  light  biscuit  dough,  ciit  in  squares,  lay  it  on  top  of.  the 
chicken,  cover  tightly  and  boil  30  minutes  without  lifting  the  cover 
or  allowing  the  boiling  to  cease.  Lay  the  chicken  in  a  deep  dish, 
removing  the  largest  bones.  Cover  with  the  crust,  season"' and  thicken 
the  gravy  and  pour  over  it.  Light  soda  biscuit,  or  baking-powder 
biscuit,  can  be  split  and  laid  on  a  platter  and  fricasseed  chicken  poured 
over  them  hot.  This  is  much  more  wholesome  than  the  boiled  pot- 
pie.  This  rule  is  applicable  to  veal,  venison,  and  other  pot-pies. 
Cold  biscuit  can  be  utilized  as  pot-pie.  Heat  and  soften  thoroughly , 
in  the  hot  broth,  arrange  on  a  platter  with  the  chicken,  or  any  other 
variety  of  meat  that  may  be  used,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  all.  These 
have  the  merit  of  being  always  light  and  digestible. 

Chicken  Pot-Pie,  Southern  Style. — One  large  chicken,  dis- 
jointed as  for  a  stew,  one  pound  of  lean  ham,  four  medium-sized 
potatoes.  Make  a  plain  pot-pie  crust,  any  preferred  style.  Cut  the 
ham  and  the  potatoes  into  dice.  Put  a  layer  of  chicken  in  the  kettle, 
then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
the  remainder  of  the  chicken,  and  then  the  potatoes,  ham,  etc.,  pota- 
toes last.  Pour  in  1  quart  of  water.  Roll  out  the  paste  an  inch  or 
more  in  thickness;  Make  an  opening  in  it  for  the  escape  of  steam, 
and  lay  it  over  the  top  of  the  last  layer.  Simmer  continuously  for 
1 J^  hours.  Half  an  hour  before  the  pie  is  done,  add,  through  the 
opening  in  the  crust,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  in  bits  and  rolled 
in  flour.  Dish  on  a  large  platter.  Break  up  the  crust  in  pieces  and 
arrange  around  the  edge  of  the  platter. 

Chicken  Short-Cake. — Make  a  short-cake  with  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder,  1  pint  pf  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed 


POULTRY.  141 

fnto  the  flour ;  moisten  with  1  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  quickly. 
Tear  open ;  lay  on  a  large  platter  and  turn  the  stewed .  chicken  over 
it.    Serve  at  once. 

Smothered  Chicken. — Cut  chicken  as  for  frying,  roll  each  piece 
in  flour,  with  which  has  been  mixed  salt  and  pepper  j  have  lard  or 
butter  hot  in  a  skillet  (half  an  onion  chopped  fine  may  be  added  if 
desired) ;  pack  the  chicken  in,  dredge  flour,  pour  in  a  pint  of  water, 
cover  tightly  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Open  the  pan  and_  brown 
lightly.     Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan. 

Chicken  Pudding.- — Cut  up  two  young  chickens,  stew  in  water 
enough  to  cover.  When  boiled  quite  tender,  season ;  take  from  the 
broth,  remove  all  the  large  bones.  Put  the  meat  in  a  butter-ed  baking- 
dish  ;  add  some  bits  of  butter  and  pour  over  them  the  following  batter : 
4  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  quart  of  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  sifted  with 
enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  like  griddle-cakes.  Bake  one  hour  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  broth,  thickening  it  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  water ;  add  a  little 
boiling  water  to  the  gravy  if  necessary.  Let  boil  up  once.  Serve 
hot  in  a  gravy  boat,  with  the  pudding. 

Chicken  Boly-Poly. — One  quart  of  flour  sifted  with  3  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  no  shortening.  Roll  put 
about  one-half  inch  thick.  Cover  it  with  a  layer  of  minced  chicken, 
veal  or  mutton.  Have  the  meat  seasoned  and  free  from  gristle.  Roll 
the  crust  over  like  a  roll  jelly-cake.  Lay  it  on  a  buttered  dish,  with 
the  folded-over  end  down,  and  put  in  a  steamer  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  for  lunch,  giving  a  slice  to  each  person.  If  there  is  any  gravy  ' 
Idt  over  from  the  day  before  or  any  broth,  make  hot  gravy  to  serve 
with  it. 

Chicken  Tum-oyers.— Chop  cold  roast  chicken  fine ;  heat  it  up 
with  a  little  water  and  gravy,  or  butter.  Season ;  dredge  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour ;  let  boil  up  and  remove  from  the  fire  to  cool. 
When  cool,  roll  plain  pie-crast  out  thin;  cut  in  rounds  as  large  as  a 
saucer;  wet  the  edge  with  cold  water;  put  a  large  spoonful  of  the 
minced  meat  on  one-half  of  the  round,  fold  the  other  half  over; 
pinch  the  edges  well  together  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven.  They  may 
also  be  fried  in  hard  fat  like  fried  cakes.  These  are  nice  served  hot, 
or  a>ld  they  are  a  much-liked  addition  to  the  lunch-basket. 


X42  POULTRY. 

Stock  Jielly  for  Poultry  or  Meats.^One  quart  of  soup  stock, 
seasoned  with  salt,  white  pepper,  celery-seed  and  the  j  uice  of  1  lemon ; 
let  cool;  remove  the  fat;  then  boil  slowly  with  the  white  of  1  egg  to 
clarify  it.  The  egg  and  the  sediment  'will  rise ;  skim  carefully ;  dis- 
solve 1  ounce  of  gelatine  in  the  stock.  Strain  the  whole  jthrough  a 
napkin.  It  can  be  colored  different  tints  with  the  same  colorings 
used  for  soup.  It  can  be  used  in  different  ways  with  boned  turkey," 
cold  meats,  etc.,  and  can  be  cut  in  blocks  for  garnishing  elabo^ 
rate  meat  dishes. 

CMcken  Curry. — Cut  up  a  chicken  weighing  about  2  pounds,  as 
for  a  fricassee,  and  put  over  with  sufficient  w^ter  to  cover  it; 
cook  slowly  until  tender ;  season  thoroughly.  Remove  the  chicken, 
pour  the  liquor  in  a  bowl  and  set  it  to  one  side.  Cuf  up  two  small 
onions,  and  fry  with  a  piece  of  butter ;  when  the  onions  are  browh, 
skim  out  and  put  in  the  chicken ;  fry  three  or  four  minutes ;  next 
sprinkle  over  it  2  teaspoonfuls  of  curry  powder.  Pour  in  the  liquor 
'in  which  the  chicken  was  ;stewed,  stir  all  well  together,  stew  five  min- 
utes, and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  water.  A  beaten  egg  may  be  stirred  in  at  the  last.  Serve 
with  a  border  of  hot  boiled  rice  laid  around  the  edge  of  the  platter, 
and  the  curry  in  the  centre.  It  is  a  handsome  side  dish  to  accompany 
a  full  dinner,  with  roast  meats.  The  curry  powder  may  be  bought, 
or  made  after  the  receipt  given  in  this  book.  Other  meats  and  other 
fowls  may  be  prepared  in  this  same  fashion. 

Indian  Curry. — Cut  chicken  or  lamb  into  small  pieces,  and  stew 
until  tender.  When  partly  cooked  add  1  onion  and  2  tomatoes 
chopped  fine,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  meat 
becomes  tender,  skini  it  out  and  mix  together  1  dessert-spoon  of 
curry  powder,  2  dessertspoons  of  tomato  catsup,  2  dessertspoons  pt 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  2  dessertspoons  of  flour.  Stir  this  into 
the  gravy.  Cook  five  minutes.  Return  the  meat  to  the  kettle.  Let 
it  boil  up  once,  and  serve  with  rice  cooked  dry. 

Chicken  a  la  Tartare. — Take  half-grown  young  chickens,  split 
down  the  back,  place  in  a  baking-pon,  spread  thickly  with  butter, 
dust  with  salt  anjd  pepper,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  and  chopped 
onion,  cover  the  pan,  set  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour ;  take  up,  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg,  dip  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  broil  over  th« 
fire  until  brown. 


POULTRY.  143 

Mushroom  Chicken. — Boil  one  hen  until  tender,  tut  off  the  meat 
and  chop  fine.  Crack  the  bones  and  put  them  back  in  the  water  the 
hen  was  boiled  in,  and  allow  to  simmer.  Then  put  into  a  hot  skillet 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  then  into  this  3  tablespoons  of  sifted 
flour.  One  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  the  stock,  warmed  together — 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  1  layer  of  the 
chicken,  then  a  layer  of  chopped  mushrooms,  then  some  of  the  dress- 
ing, and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover  with  toasted  bread  crumbs 
and  bake.  Wetting  the  crumbs  with  a  beaten  egg  makes  them  brown 
nicely 

Scalloped  Chicken.— This  very  nice  supper  dish  may  be  made 
from  such  bits  of  cold  chicken  as  will  not  otherwise  present  a  nice 
appearance,  por  each  cupful  of  the  minced  chicken  allow  half  as 
much  white  sauce  j  put  the  chicken  in  layers  alternating  with  chopped 
hard-boiled  eggs,  1  for  each  cupful ;  season  and  moisten  with  the 
sauce;  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  15  minutes.  Turkey  or 
veal'may  be  used  in  this  way,  and  instead  of  baking  in  one  large  dish. 
individual  scallop  shells  may  be  used  when  it  will  make  a  nice  course 
at  dinner. 

Chicken  Patties. — Pick  the  meat  from  a  cold  chicken  and  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Put  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  little  hot  wa.tor  and  milk, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  the  yolk  of 
an  egg.  Line  patty-pans  with  good  crust,  glaze  with  the  white  of  an 
egg,  and  bake.  When  done  fill  with  the  chicken  and  send  to  the 
table  hot.  .Cut  out  round  cakes  of  the  crust  for  the  tops,  and  bake 
them. 

Novelty  Chicken  Pie. — Dress  two  chickens  and  cut  each  into 
nine  pieces.  Cut  the  breast  in  two  parts,  either  crosswise  or  length-'^ 
wise.  Unjoint  the  legs  and  cut  off"  the  neck  where  it  joins  the  ribs. 
Cook  in  plenty  of  water,  adding  a  few  slices  of  "  boiling  "  pork.  Re- 
move the  meat  before  it  is  so  tender  that  it  will  cleave  from  the  bones. 
Let  it  stand  till  cold.  Mix  to  a  smooth  batter  a  heaped  quart  measure 
of  flour,  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  pint  of  milk,  3  beaten  eggs,  a  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  salt  and  2  full  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Rub 
the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  small  pan  or  large  basin  with  cold  butter. 
Spread,  a  little  more  than  a  third  of  the  batter  over  the  bottom,  then 
arrange  half  the  meat,  including  the  giblets,  another  layer  of  batter, 
then  the  remainder  of  the  meat.    Makb  the  top  layer  of  the  rest  of 


144  POULTRY. 

the  batter,  using  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water  to  form  a  smooth  sur- 
face. Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled,  season  to 
taste,  and  set  where  it  will  reach  scalding  heat,  but  not  boil.  Imme- 
diately before  serving  the  pie,  thicken  the  liquor  with  3  well-beaten 
eggs  and  a  little  cornstarch  wet  with  cold  water  if  it  is  not  as  thick  as 
desired. 

Minced  CMcken. — Mince  very  fine  the  meat  left  from  cold  roast 
chicken,,  removing  all  skin,  bones  and  gristle.  Put  the  bones  and  all 
the  trimmings  into  a  saucepan  with  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs  and  a 
pint  of  broth  or  water ;  let  this  all  cook  for  nearly  an  hour,  and  then 
strain  it  off.  Chop  2  hard-boiled  eggs  very  fine ;  season  the  chicken 
with  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  mace  j  mix  it  with  the  eggs.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a 
cup  of  cream.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  chicken  mixture;  let  it  get 
very  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Garnish  the  dish  with  sippets  of 
toasted  bread.  It  is  nice  to  cook  cold  chicken  in  this  fashion  for 
chicken  short-cake,  etc. 

Little  Dish  of  Chicken. 

CMcken  Liegs,  to  Cook.^-There  are  many  special  and  delicious 
Vfays  of  preparing  individual  parts  of  chicken,  and  in  small  families  it 
is  really  more  economical  to  cook  some  portions  of  a  pair  of  chickens 
first,  than  to  cook  all  at  once  and  then  re-serve. 

•Take  the  drum-sticks,  boil  about  20  minutes,  and  then  bone,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  pinch  of  mustard  for  each  leg.  Rub 
all  over  to  see  the  seasoning  is  evenly  distributed ;  roU  the  drum- 
sticks, skewer,  with  small  toothpicks,  in  shape.  Cover  with  beaten 
egg,  and  then  roll  in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  about  6 
minutes,  browning  each  side.  ServQ  with  a  brown  sauce  made  in  the 
pan,  stirring  into  it  1  even  teaspoonful  dry  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cay- 
enne and  1  tablespoonful  catsup.  Turkey  legs  may  be  served  in  the 
same  manner,  only  cooking  longer. 

G-eese. 

Boast  Goose. — Select  a  young  goose,  which  can  be  told  by  a 
brittle  windpipe,  white  skin,  plump  breast  and  yellow  feet ;  the  web 
should  tear  easily.  An  old  goose  is  known  by  its  red  feet.  Singe, 
4raw,  wash  and  wipe  the  goose.    Beat  the  breast  fiat  with  a  rolling- 


POULTRY.  146 

pin,  draw  up  the  legs  and  skewer  both  legs  and  wings  close  to  the 
body.  Stuff  with  the  following  dressing:  1  pint  stale  bread  crumbs, 
2  medium-sized  onions  boiled  and  mashed,  one-half  teacupful  boiled 
rice,  1  teaspoonful  powdered  sage,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter  and  one-half  tea- 
cupful  milk.  Roast  in  a  covered  pan,  allowing  rather^more  than  20 
minutes  to  the  pound.  Baste  frequently,  with  the  following  mixture: 
-One  teaspoonful  made  mustard,  a  saltspoonful  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne, 
a  large  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  a  teacupful  hotwater,  a  teaspoon-' 
ful  vinegar.    This  basting  is  a  great  improvement. 

Boil  the  giblets  slowly  2  hours,  or  until  tender,  with  a  slice  of 
onion,  3  or  4  peppercorns  and  a  blade  of  mace.  When  ready  to  make 
the  gravy,  take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  from  the  roasting  pan  of  the 
goose ;  add  the  water  the  giblets  were  boiled  in,  enough  water  to  finish 
the  gravy,  the  giblets,  chopped  very  fine,  and  flour  to  thicken.  Boil  up 
and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat.  A  cup  of  rich  milk  improves  this  gravy. 
Serve  with  hot  apple-sauce.  An  a,pple  dressing  can  be  used,  and  is 
considered  by  ?ome  to  add  greatly  to  the  flavor  of  the  goose.  It  is 
made  as  follows : 

Apple  Dressing  or  Staffing. — One  pint  of  tart  apple-sauce,  1  tea- 
cupful of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  sage,  Salt  and  pepper.  Mix  and  use 
to  stuff  roast  duck,  goose  and  some  kinds  of  game. 

Potato  Stuffing. — Mashed  potatoes ;  season  with  cream  or  rich 
milk,  butter,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Add  1  cupful  of  bread  crumbs. 
Use  for  any  fowl. 

Apple-sauce  tor  Meats. — Slice  tart  -apples,  first  paring.  Stew 
half  an  hour,  adding  a  little  water.  Throw  in  butter  in  proportion  of 
1  small  teaspoonful  to  1  quart  of  sauce.  Beat  fine.  Use  no  sugar. 
Serve,  especially  with  roast  goose,  or  duck. 

Gtoose  Stuffed  with  Sauerkraut. — Stuff  a  dressed  goose  with 
sauerkraut.  Sew  it  up,  tie  into  shape,  and  place  it  in  a  large  kettle, 
cover  it  with  about  2  quarts  of  sauerkraut.  Cover  the  whole  with 
boiling  water  and  simmer  gently  for  3  hours.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
take  out  the  goose,  lay  it  in  a  baking-pan,  baste  it  with  melted  butter, 
dredge  the  breast  with  flour,  put  it  in  a  quick  oven  until  a  nice  brown 
(about  an  hour).    Serve  in  a  bed  of  the  boiled  sauerkra^it. 

Deviled  Goose. — ^Take  the  joints  of  cold  goose,  and  brown  either 
on  a  broiler,  or  in  a  hot  frying-pan.    Make  the  following  sauce : 

COOK— 10 


146  POULTRY. 

Saiice.  One  tablespoonful  each  of  made  mustard,  1  of  any  kind  of 
catsup,  1  of  pepper-sauce,  1  of  currant  jelly  and  1  of  lemon-juice. 
Take  up  the  meat  on  a  warm  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Or 
use  the  ^following :  Sauce  II.  Put  in  the  pan  where  the  goose  was 
heated,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  tea- 
spoonful  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  catsup.  Let  boil 
up  once  and  pour  over  the  goose.  This  is  also  nice  for  ham,  in  which 
case  use  the  ham  gravy  instead  of  butter. 

Force-meat  Balls. — The  stuffing  left  from;  roast  chicken  or  turkey 
can  be  mixed  with  minced  beef,  mutton  or  veal,  shaped  into  roiind 
cakes  or  patties,  and  browned  in  a  hot  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter. 

Ducks. 

The  flavor  of  all  ducks  is  improved  by  putting  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
of  minced  celeiy  and  onion  in  the  bodies  before  they  are  cooked. 
Parboiling  a  duck  removes  some  of  the  oily  flavor. 

Boast  Duck. — Draw  and  singe  a  pair  of  young,  fat  ducks;  wipe 
inside  and  outside  with  a  damp  towel.  Make  a  stuffing  of  2  cupfuls 
of  stale  bread  crumbs,  a  minced  boiled  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered sage,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Mix  well,  and  fill  the  bodies  of  the  ducks.  Place  in  a  baking 
pan,  la.y  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon  or  salt  pork  over  the  breasts,  pour  a 
teacupful  of  boiling  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  set  in  a  quick 
oven  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Baste  often.  Serve  with  onion  sauce 
and  apple  jelly,  or  with  currant  jelly,  or  a  puree  of  apples. 

If  giblet  gravy  is  wanted,  boil  the  giblets  tender,  pour  off  the  fat 
from  the  pan  gravy,  thicken- with  1  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour; 
add  the  chopped  giblets,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Parboiling 
before  roasting  will  remove  the  strong  taste  of  ducks.  Apple  dressing, 
as  for  a  goose  can  be  used.    Also,  potato  stuffing  (see  directions). 

Sauce  for  Ducks  or  6ame.^-A  delicious  sauce  for  eating  with 
ducks  may  be  made  by  beating  a  generous  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard 
into  a  tumbler  of  currant  jelly. 

Onion  Sauce. — Peel  4  or  5  small  onions ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  boiling  water  enough  to  cover ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  let 
boil  half  an  hour;  drain  and  press  through  a  fine  sieve  ;_melt  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  mix  Until  smooth, 
with  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 


POULTRY.  147 

Onion  Dressing. — Peel  4  IJlrge  onions,  put  into  boiling  water,  let 
simmer  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  just  before  they  are  taken  out,  put  in 
10  sage  leaves  for  a  minute  or  two  to  take  off  their  rawness,  skim 
them  out  and  chop  very  fine ;  ad^  one-fourth  pound  bread  crumbs, 
seasoning,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  butter ;  work  the  whole  together  with 
yolk  of  an  egg.  It  should  be  rather  highly  seasoned,  and  many  use 
the  onions  raw.  This  is  nice  for  either  goose  or  pork.  If  for  goose 
simmer  the  liver  a  few  minutes,  chop  fine,  and  add  to  dressing. 

Boned  Ducks. — Ducks  can  be  boned  and  filled  in  the  same 
manner  as  turkey  or  chicken.  A  chopped  onion,  however,  must  be 
added  to  the  other  ingredients.  When  boiled  ducks  are  used  for 
force-meat,  the  effect  will  not  be  as  good,  for  the  meat  is  entirely  dark. 
This  may  be  in  a  measure  obviated  by  the  use  of  stock  jellies.  Chop 
a  cupful  of  this,  and  spread  over  the  force-meat  just  before  tying  up. 
This  will  give  a  mottled  appearance  to  the  filling.  Boned  ducks  may 
be  served  whole,  decorated  with  stock  jelly  cut  in  various  forms,  or 
sliced,  by  placing  a  square  of  jelly  on  each  piece.  Greens  for  the 
edge  of  the  platter. 

Boiled  Duck. — Prepare  like  boiled  turkey. "  This  is  a  very  nice 
dish,  and  is  preferred  by  many  to  roast  duck,  as  a  more  delicate  dish. 
The  broth  can  be  kept  until  next  day,  skimmed,  and  a  very  nice  soup 
made. 

Fricasseed  Duck. — Prepare  and  cut  the  same  as  chicken  for 
fricassee.  Lay  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork  on  the  bottom  of  the 
stew  pan.  Put  in  the  duck,  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover. 
Stew  slowly  one  hour,  keeping  the  pan  covered.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  powdered  sage,  or  some  green 
sage  minced  fine ;  1  chopped  onion ;  stew  another  half  hour,  or  until 
the  duck  is  tender,  adding  boiling  water  if  needed.  Stir  up  1  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  to  the  stew. 
Let  boil  up,  and  serve  together  in  one  large  dish.  Green  peas  are  a 
nice  accompaniment. 

DucliB  with  Turnips. — Prepare  a  couple  of  young  ducks  same 
as  for  roasting.  Put  in  a  stew  pan  lined  with  slices  of  bacon ;  cover 
the  breast  with  slices  of  bacon;  add  an  onion,  sliced;  a  carrot,  cut 
in  pieces;  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  or  simply  a  little  parsley;  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  these  with  broth  or  stock,  or  even  water, 
adding  the  juice  of  1  lemon.    Place  the  pan  over  a  gentle  fire  and  let 


148  POULTRY. 

simmer  until  the  ducks  are  done,  frequently  basting  them.  When 
done,  remove  from  the  pan,  placing  where  they  will  keep  hot.  Take 
6  peeled  turnips,  cut  into  small  dice,  and  cook  until  tender,  but  not 
broken,  in  the  liquor  in  which  the  ducks  were  cooked,  adding  boiling 
water,  if  necessary.  Take  up,  arrange  on  a  platter,  lay  the  ducks  on 
top,  and  serve.  Strain  and  thicken  the  gravy,  and  send  in  with  it. 
The  gravy  can  be  omitted  if  not  liked. 

Sour  Duck  (German). — Dress  the  duck  nicely.  Soak  24  hours 
in  vinegar.  Take  1  tablespoonful  butter,  put  in  a  pan  and  brown. 
Stuff  the  duck,  put  it  in  the  pan,  dredge  ffeely  with  flour,  baste  often 
with  the  butter,  salt  to  taste. 

Sour  Sauce  for  Boast  Duck. — One  tablespoonful  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  1  onion  sliced,  cook  both  jn  the  butter  till  brown,  half 
teacup  vinegar,  2  bay  leaves,  1  teacupful  cream  or  milk,  salt  anji  pep- 
per. Flavor  with  a  bit  of  lemon-peel.  Let  boil  up.  in  the  pan.  Heat 
the  milk  to  boiling-point,  separately,  and  pour  in  at  the  very  last. 
This  prevents  curdling  badly.  Flavor  with  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  which 
can  be  taken  out  when  served.  Have  boiling  hot,  and  send  in  with 
the  duck. 

DevUed  Duck. — ^A  dish  that  is  used  a  great  deal  at  stag  suppers, 
and  generally  liked,  is  deviled  duck.  To  prepare  it  boil  or  roast  a 
duck  and  let  it  become  cool.  Remove  the  skin  and  bones  and  cut 
the  meat  into  moderate-sized  pieces.  Boil  the  livers  and  mash  to  a 
paste  and  put  in  a  sauce-pan  with  1  tablespoonful  pf  dry  mustard,  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Mix  thoroughly,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  one-fourth 
cupful  water.  .  In  this  mixture  put  1^  pints  of  the  cold  duck.  Place 
the  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  the  mixture  is  smoking  hot. 
Turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley. Send  to  the  table  as  soon  as  possible.  Serve  with  the  duck 
with  thin  pieces  of  buttered  toast  and  olives.  Left-overs  of  duck 
may  be  deviled  same  as  Deviled  Goose. 


As  regards  the  age  of  a  bird,  the 
experienced  housekeeper  can  tell  at 
once  by  its  plumage  and  appearance, 
the  feathers,  etc.,  varying  with  age  to  a  con- 
siderable extent ;  but  for  the  ignorant,  the 
JJjJJ!  safest  test  is  to  lift  the  bird  by  the  lower '"beak, 
>  which,  when  they  are  young,  will  snap  off  short ;  to 
which  may  be  added  the  general  principle  that  with  all 
young  birds  the  legs  are  smooth  and  the  quill  feathers 
soft.  -  When  in  condition,  the  breast  of  a  bird  will  feel 
hard  and  firm,  and  well  covered  with  flesh.  As  a  general  rule,  the 
hen  birds  are  the  tenderest  and  the  juiciest.  Another  point  to  re- 
member when  preparing  game  for  cooking  is  that  when  cleaning  them ' 
they  should  never  be  washed  inside,  but  merely  well  wiped  with  a 
clean  cloth.  When  the  game  is  in  such  a  state  as  to  require  washing 
to  make  it  fit  for  the  table,  it  is  not  fit  for  use. 

Woodcock,  snipe,  golden  plover  and  landrail  are  not  drawn,  the 
tail  being  reckoned  a  delicacy.  Such  birds,  moreover,  should  be 
trussed  with  their  heads  left  on,  the  same  rule  also  being  applied  in 
many  houses  to  the  blackcock.  It  should  be  added,  however,  that 
golden  plover  is  occasionally  drawn ;  but  this  is  more  a  concession  to 
private  feeling  than  a  deviation  from  a  general  rule. 

For  birds  which  are  served  undrawn,  the  crouton  is  a  necessityr 
and  should  be  placed  under  the  bird  while  cooking,  to  receive  the 
gravy,  etc.,  that  exudes  from  the  bird  in  the  process.  Sometimes  hot 
buttered  toast  is  used  instead  of  the  fried  bread  for  this  purpose,  but 
many  persons  object  to.  this  on  account  of  its  extreme  richness. 

Gama  of-all  kinds  requires  careful  cooking,  for,  though  it  should, 
with  few  exceptions,  never  be  underdone,  it  is  ruined  if  overdone,  as 
it  dries,  and  consequently  toughens  very  quickly.  Wild  duck,  teal 
and  pidgeon  are  the  exceptions,  and  should  be  distinctly  underdone 
rather  than  overdone.  Whenever  possible,  game  should  be  roasted 
at  an  open  fire ;  but  where  an  oven  is  inevitable  the  birds  shouW 


always  jje  placed  in  the  double  roasting  pan,  with  water  bet^reen  the 

149, 


t50  GAME. 

two  pans,  and  extra  care  should  be  bestowed  on  the  basting — &  point 
frequently  forgotten  by  cooks.  Most  game  is  improved,  especially  if 
cooked  in  the  oven,  by  having  a  slice  of  fat  bacon,  cut  in  rows  of 
diagonal  slits,  skewered  over  the  breast,  and,  in  the  case  of  quail,  or- 
tolans and  other  small  birds,  clever  cooks  and  a  vine-leaf  to  improve 
the  flavor. 

Young  pigeons  have  light-red  flesh  on  the  l^reastfand  full,  fresh- 
colored  legs.  When  the  legs  are  thin  and  the  breast  dark  the  birds 
are  old.  Fine  game  birds  are  always  heavy  for  their  size.  A  few 
feathei-s  plucked  from  the  inside  of  the  legs,  the  flesh  of  freshly-killed 
birds,  will  be  fat  and  fresh  colored.  If  dark  and  discolored  the  bird 
has  been  hung  a  long  time.  The  wings  of  good  geese,  ducks,  pheas- 
ants and  woodcock  are  tender  to  the  touch ;  the  tips  of  the  long  wing 
feathers  of  partridges  in  young  birds  are  round  in  old  ones.  Quail, 
snipe  and  small  birds  should  have  full  tender  breasts. 

Game  should  be  kepit  no  longer  than  beef  or  fowl.  Both  of  these 
are  better  for  being  kept  a  short  time.  Only  pronounced  epicures 
insist  upon  the  condition  termed  "  high."  If  a  bird  or  meat  is  to  be 
dredged  with  flour,  salt  should  be  put  on  before  it  is  cooked,  but  the 
rest  of  the  seasoning  is  not  to  be  added  until  it  is  taken  from  the  fire. 

How  to  Cook  Game. — As  ;a  rule,  all  dark  fleshed  birds,  like 
duck  and  grouse,  should  be  cooked  about  as  rare  as  roast  beef,  so 
that  the  blood  runs  from  the  knife.  Birds  with  white  flesh,  like  part- 
ridge, should  be  as  well  done  as  a  barnyard  fowl.  A  simple  rule  for 
time,  allows  eighteen  or  twenty  minutes  roasting  for  either  canvasback 
or  redhead  duck,  fifteen  minutes  for  teal,  eighteen  or  twenty  minutes 
for  grouse,  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes  for  doe  birds,  ten  minutes  for 
either  plover  or  woodcock,  and  eight  or  ten  minutes  for  English  snipe. 
Tender,  plump  quail  require  from  fifteen  to  eighteen  minutes,  and  the 
average  plump  partridge  from  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes.  This 
implies  the  briskest  heat  the  oven  can  give. 

To  Serve  with  Game. — Currant  or  plum  jelly,  or  spiced  plums 
should  be  served  with  all  kinds  of  feathered  game,  except  turkey, 
which,  like  its  civilized  cousin,  takes  kindly  to  cranberry  jelly.  Celery 
is  always  in  order  with  any  kind  of  game,  and  a  celery  sauce  is  pre- 
ferred to  a  bread  sauce  by  many. 

Bread  Sauce  for  Game. — Boil  up  half  a  pint  of  milk  with  a 
small  shallot  stuck  with  a  clove,  and  directly  it  comes  to  the  boil,  stir 


GAME.  151 

in  1  ouncfe  of  fresh  butter,  and  one  half  ounce  of  fresh  white  bread 
crumbs,  previously  rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  let  it  all  boil 
together  for  fifteen-minutes.  Add  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  good  cream 
or  new  milk,  boil  it  once  more  for  five  minutes,  season  to  taste  with 
a  very  little  salt  and  white  pepper ;  lift  out  the  shallot  and  clove,  and 
serve  in  a  hot  tureen. 

\  Dressing  for  Broiled  Game. — Mix  an  ounce  of  butter  with  about 
a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  salt,  a  dust  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a 
few  drops  of  vinegar,  or,  if  preferred,  lemon  juice.  Score  the  flesh 
pretty  deeply,  coat  it  thickly  with  the  above  mixture,  and  broil  over 
a  clear  fire. 

Venison. 

Venison  is  one  of  the  most  easily  digested  meats.  It  may  be 
cooked  after  the  same  rules  as  mutton  or  beef.  It  should  be  cooked 
rare,  and  served  very  hot,  with  currant  jelly.  The  saddle  or  loin  is 
the  choicest  cut  for  roasting  or  for  steaks.  Steaks  are  also  cut  from 
the  leg.  Venison  may  be  roasted,  broiled,  stewed,  etc.,  the  same  as 
beef.  The  trimmings  '  should  be  boiled,  to  make  a  stock  for  the 
sauce. 

Haunch  or  Saddle  of  Venison.  (English.) — Rub  the  surface 
with  butter  to  soften  it.  (It  should  have  hung  about  one  week  in  a 
cool  place).  Cover  it  first  with  a  large  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  and 
over  that  place  a  covering  of  flour  and  water  paste  about  one  half 
inch  thick,  the  whole  covered  with  another  greased  paper  fastened 
securely.  Fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  is  the  rule  followed  where  it 
is  preferred  rare.  More  time  is  required,  according  to  the  size,  to 
have  it  well  done.  Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  around  the  meat  and 
cover  with  another  dripping-pan.  The  oven  should  be  hot.  After 
the  first  hour,  baste  thoroughly  at  short  intervals,  re-covering  the  pan 
after  each  time.  Half  an  hour  before  dinner  uncover  the  pan,  remove 
the  papers  and  paste,  return  to  the  oven,  and  baste  with  melted  butter 
(and  a  littk  lemon  juice;  dredge  flour  over  the  whole  and  let  it  brown. 
Repeat  the  basting  with  butter  two  or  three  times  during  the  half- 
hour,  and  take  up  on  a  heated  dish.  The  plates  should  be  heated 
also,  as  venison  cools  easily.  Serve  with  currant  jelly  and  the  jelly 
sauce  given  before.  A  brown  gravy  can  be  made  in  the  pan,  and 
sent  up  with  it,  or  poured  under  the  joint  on  the  platter.  The  bone 
can  be  decorated  with  cut  paper  if  liked. 


152  GAME. 

Larded  Haunch  of  Venison.'— A  saddle  of  venison  is  the  best 
for  roasting.  Lard  the  venison  with  strips  of  firm,  fat  pork,  and 
sprinkle  over  the  whole  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Roast 
in  a  very  hot  oven,  bastirig  often,  and  it  adds  greatly  to  the  flavor  to 
use  some  claret  in  basting.  Venison  should  be  served  rare  and  very 
hot.  Some  cooks  refuse  to  use  salt  pork  with  venison,  claiming  that 
it  injures  the  flavor,  but  where  the  meat  is  dry  it  is  an  improvement. 

liCgr  of  Venison. — A  leg  ^f  venison  that  weighs  10  pounds  wil! 
require  1^  hours  to  roast.  In  this  case  it  should  be  larded  on  one 
side,  then  be  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  covered  with  soft 
butter,  placed  on  a  rack  in  a  pan  and  set  in  a  very  hot  oven.  No 
water  should  be  put  in  the  pan  for  the  first  10  minutes,  but  when  that 
time  has  passed  there  should  be  just  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of 
the  pan,  and  the  venison  should  be  basted  with  this  and  with  salt, 
pepper  and  flour  every  15  minutes.  Some  people  prefer  claret  to  the 
gravy  in  the  pan  for  basting.  The  last  basting  should  be  with  soft 
butter  and  a  dredging  of  flour,  that  the  surface  of  the  meat  may  have 
a  light,  frothy  appearance.  The  oven  should  be  very  hot  the  first 
half  hour ;  after  that  reduce  the  heat 

Babbits. 

Babbit,  Roasted. — Skin,  clean,  and  let  lie  in  some  water  for  half 
an  hour.  Mince  a  slice  of  salt  pork  and  mix  with  sufficient  moist- 
ened bread  crumbs  to  fill  the  cavity,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and 
sweet  marjoram ;  add  a  little  minced  onion  if  liked.  Stuff  the  rabbit 
and  sew  up.  Cover  with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  either  bound  on 
with  cords,  or  fastened  with  wooden  toothpicks.  Pour  a  cup  of  water 
in  the  pan  and  bake  1  hour,  basting  frequently,  adding  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar  to  .the  drippings.  Dredge  with  flour;  brown  and  re- 
move from  the  oven.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  removing  the  slices  of 
pork  and  garnishing  the  edge  of  the  platter  with  them.  Thicken  the 
strained  gravy  with  browned  flour  and  season  with  butter,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  or  a  little  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Let  it  boil  up,  then  serve.  If  pork  is  not  used  in  roasting,  rub  the 
rabbit  with  butter  well  before  putting  in  the  oven,  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  it  when  served,  garnishing  with  sliced  lemons  and  parsley. 

Broiled  Babbits. — Skin,  clean,  and  disjoint  the  rabbit,  wipe  dry> 
wrap  in  buttered  letter  paper,  place  in  a  double  wire  broiler  and  broil 


GAME.  153 

over  a  clear,  brisk  fire,  turning  often.  Serve  very  hot,  removing  the 
papers.  Some  cooks  let  the  joints  of  rabbit  lie  2  or  3  hours  in  a  mix- 
ture consisting  of  a  little  salad  oil,  2  or  3  sprays  of  parsley,  a  sliced 
onion,  a  clove  or  two,  a  bay  leaf,  2  or  3  peppercorns  and  a  little  salt. 
Turn  occasionally,  then  drain,  but  do  not  dry  the  pieces ;  wrap  each 
in  a  thin  rasher  of  bacon,  and  then  into  pieces  of  buttered  paper,  with 
a  little  of  the  seasoning ;  broil  them  over  a  clear,  slow  fire,  and  serve 
very  hot  in  the  papers. 

Babbit,  Fried. — Skin,  disjoint  and  wipe  the  rabbit  perfectly  dry. 
Fry  the  same  as  chicken,  parboiling  anless  perfectly  tender.  They 
may  be  dipped  in  flour  before  frying. 

Babbit  Pie. — Make  the  same  as  Chicken  Pie,  or  Game  Pie.  Par- 
boil the  rabbit  if  not  tender.  Four  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  and 
scattered  through  the  pie  are  an  improvement.  Bake  an  hour  and 
cover  the  top  with  paper  should  it  brown  too  fast 

Babbit  Stew. — Prepare  the  same  as  venison  and  serve  the  same. 
Add  minced  onion  to  the  gravy,  if  liked,  and  if  necessary  a  little  butter. 

Babbits  with  Onions-  — After  the  rabbit  is  cleaned,  truss  it,  and 
put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Simmer  until  tender, 
take  out  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  until  a  light  brown.  Keep  it  warm, 
whild'you  fry  six  onions,  sliced.  When  they  are  fried  a  nice  brown, 
pour  a  little  boHing  water  in  the  frying  pan  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  browned  flour,  wet  with  cold  water.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
pour  over  the  rabbit  and  serve.  After  the  rabbit  is  boiled  tender  it 
may  be  served  with  a  drawn  butter  sauce  that  has  had  S  boiled  onions 
put  in  it.  The  onions  must  first  be  boiled  perfectly  tender.  Pour 
this  sauce  over  the  rabbit  and  serve. 

Panned.  Babbit. — Singe  and  wipe  a  young  rabbit  carefully,  cut 
into  convenient  pieces,  place  neatly  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  over  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions,  same  of  chopped  parsley  and  same 
0^  celery ;  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  to  it  a  half  cup  offwater 
or  stock,  and  a  half  teaspox)nful  ©f  pepper ;  pour  this  over  the  rabbit, 
cover  with  another  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  35  or  40 
minutes;  dust  with  salt  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  An  ordinary  brown 
gravy  made  in  the  pan  may  be  sent  up  with  it.  Young  rabbits  have 
very  tender  meat  and  when  properly  cooked  are  almost  as  great  a 
delicacy  as  chicken.  In  England  they  are  found  in  every  market  an4 
are  a  constant  article  of  fbod,  being  raised  especially  for  this  purpose. 


154  GAME. 

Hare. 

Boast  Hare. — Hare  and  rabbit  are  very  much  alike,  the  chief  dif- 
ference being  in  the  smaller  size  and  shorter  legs  and  ears  of  the 
rabbit.  For  roasting  hare  proceed  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as 
for  rabbit  (see  directions).     Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Larded  Hare. — Bone  a  harcy  lay  it  flat  on  a  board  and  season 
with  pepper,  spices,  and  chopped  parsley,  spread  a  dressing  over  it 
(see  Roast  Rabbit).  Roll  tightly,  cover  with  slices  of  bacon  tied  on. 
Put  the  bones  into  a  stewpan  with  2  bay  leaves,  a  sliced  onion,  some 
parsley,  and,  if  liked,  2  blades  of  mace  and  half  pint  of  water  or  stock. 
Cover  the  bones  with  fat  bacon,  put  in  the  hare,  set  on  a  slow  fire  to 
simmer  for  2  hours.    Serve  the  hare  cold,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Jugged  Hare. — ^Two  rabbits,  1  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  1  tablespoonful 
of  salt,  half  teaspoohful  of  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice, 
2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  3  cupfuls 
of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  any  preferred  catsup.  Skin,  clean,  wash, 
disjoint,  and  roll  in  the  flour.  Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when 
it  gets  hot  put  in  the  meat.  Brown  well  on  both  sides^  being  careful 
not  to  burn.  When  the  meat  has  been  well  browned,  put  it  into  a 
stew-pan,  and  put  into  the  frying-pan  such  flour  as  remained  after  the 
meat  was  rolled  in.  Stir  until  the  mixture  gets  smooth ;  then  add  the 
water,  and  cook  for  10  minutes.  Pour  this  liquid  over  the  meat  in 
the  stew-pan.  Add  the  spice,  salt,  pepper,  and  the  onion,  uncut. 
Cover  closely  and  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  add  lemon 
juice  and  catsup.  Arrange  the  rabbit  on  a  warm  platter,  and  strain 
the  sauce  over  it.    Serve  wi|fli  a  dish  of  boiled  rice. 

Stewed  Hare. — Cut  in  pieces,  put  in  a  saucepan,  barely  covering 
with  soup  stock  or  clear  broth.  Add  to  this  1  large  onion, -chopped, 
a  few  blades  of  mace,  1  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce  and  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  closely  and  let 
stew  2  hours ;  if  necessary  add  a  little  more  broth  before  removing 
from  the  fire.  Arrange  the  meat  in  a  soup  tureen ;  thicken  the  sauce 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  browned  flour ;  pour  into  the 
dish  through  a  sieve. 

Squirrels. 

Squirrel  Stew. — Squirrels  are  cooked  very  much  as  rabbits,  and 
any  good  rule  for  preparing  them  will  apply  to  squirrels.     For  this 


GAME.  155 

<tew  cut  up  gray  squirrels  and  put  on  the  stove  in  cold  water,  add  a 
little  salt  and  soda,  let  it  come  nearly  to  boiling,  then  pour  off  and 
put  in  cold  water  again,  adding  as  much  sweet  milk  as  there  is  water, 
und  cook  slowly  till  the  meat  is  tender ;  then  take  out  the  meat  and 
place  in  a  spider  with  a  generous  amount  of  good  butter  and  simmer 
or  fry  a  little  brown;  to  the  butter  add  some' fresh  milk,  pepper  and 
salt,  thicken  with  flour  to  make  gravy ;  cooked  this  way  they  have  no 
strong,  wild  flavor. 

Squirrel  Pie. — Clean  one  pair  of  squirrels  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Wipe  off"  with  a  damp  cloth.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  with  two 
slices  of  salt  pork  and  water  to  nearly  cover.  Cook  until  half  done. 
Season  it  well  and  thicken  the  gravy.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish,  cover 
with  pie-crust  and  bake  30  minutes.  Squirrels  may  be  fried,  broiled, 
or  stewed,  like  chickens  or  rabbits. 

Squlwel  Pot-Pie. — Skin,  clean  and  cut  up  two  squirrels  and  make 
the  pot-pie  afl:er  any  favored. rule  for  chicken  pot-pie. 

Frog's  Legs. 

Fried  Frog's  Legs. — Wash  them  and  turn  boiling  water  on  them, 
letting  them  stand  6  minutes.  Dry  them  on  a  napkin.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Dip  the  legs  in  this,  roll 
them  in  grated  bread  crumbs;  shake  off  all  that  does  not  adhere;  dip 
again  in  the  egg  and  afterward  in  the  crumbs  and  drop  in  hot  fat. 
Parsley  is  an  appropriate  garnish,  but  slices  of  lemon  may  be  used. 

Partridges. 

Boast  Partridge. — ^To'  roast  a  partridge,  clean  (do  not  break  the 
entrails),  wash  in* water  containing  a  little  soda.  If  there  are  any  shot 
cut  them  out  carefully.  Take  narrow  strips  of  fat  pork  2  inches  long 
and  with  a  larding  needle  lard  the  breast.  Tie  the  legs  together,  and 
sprinkle  the  bird  with  salt  and  pepper  and  rub  with  butter ;  then  dredge 
with  flour.  Place  in  a  dripping  pan  with  an  onion  cut  in  slices,  and 
if  you  have  it  use  some  stock,  if  not  water  will  do,  and  roast  in  a  hot 
oven  40  minutes,  basting  frequently  with  the  stock.  When  done  place 
on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  as  soon  as  possible. 

If  a  larding  needle  is  not  convenient,  cover  the  breast  of  the  bird 
with  thin  slices  of  pork,  fastened  on  with  wooden  toothpicks.    Make 


156  GAME. 

a  gravy  of  the  pan  liquor,  thickened  with  browned  flour,  adding  water 
if  necessary.  They  can  be  stuffed  with  any  poultry  dressing,  if  pre- 
pared, and,  if  wished,  the  pork  may  be  omitted  and  butter  only  be 
used,  basting  frequently  with  butter  and  water.  A  pint  of  bread 
crumbs,  fried  in  smoking  hot  butter,  may  be  placed  under  the  part- 
ridges.    Have  the  platter  hot. 

Broiled  Partridges. — These  are  very  fine  broiled.  Split  down 
the  back,  place  on  a  gridiron,  inside  down,  cover  with  a  baking  tin, 
and  broil  slowly  at  first.    Serve  plain,  or  with  a,  cream  gravy. 

Pigeons. 

Pigeon  Pie* — Stuff  6  pigeons  with  a  turkey  dressing,  first  loosen- 
ing the  joints,  but  not  separating  them,  sew  up  and  put  in  a  stew  pan 
with  water  enough  to  cover.  Let  cook  until  nearly  tender.  Then 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  flour, 
remove  and  cool.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  line  the  sides  with  a  rich 
crust.  Have  ready  4  or  6  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices.  Put  a 
layer  of  egg  and  birds  and  gravy  until  the  dish  is  full ;  cover  with  a 
crust,  (have  an  opening  for  the  escape  of  steam)  and  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

Pigeon  Pie. — II. — Prepare  the  pigeons,  cut  each  in  pieces  and 
parboil.  Line  a  baking  dish  with  rich  paiste  and  fill  in  with  the 
pigeons,  mixing  in  bits  of  salt  pork.  Seas^on  with  1  teaspoonfiil  of 
parsley,  and  a  tablespootiful  of  butter  cut  in  bits.  Dredge  with 
flour,  and  pour  in  the  water  the  birds  were  parboiled  in.  Coyer  with 
pie  paste,liaving  an  opening  for  the  escape  of  ?team,  and  bake  1  hour. 

Pigeons  Koasted. — Dress  and  stuff  with  bread  crumbs  seasoned 
with  butter,  salt  and  a  little  mace,  adding  3  oysters  to  each  bird ; 
sew  up  and  baste  frequently  with  melted  butter;  roast  half  an  hour 
carefully.  Some  prefer  the  apple  stuffing.  Pigeons  to  be  roasted 
should  be  tender.     Lay  them  On  ^he  dish  in  a  row. 

Stewed  Pigeons. — Dress  and  stew  with  turkey"  or  chicken  dress- 
ing. An  onion  flavoring  should  be  used,  do  not  sew  up.  Fry  5  or 
more  slices  of  salt  pork  in  an  iron  kettle.  When  it  begin  to  brown 
lay  the  pigeons  all  around  in  the  fat,  breast  down,  leaving  the  pork 
in,  add  enough  hot  water  to  partially  cover  them.  Cover  the  kettle 
tightly  and  stew  an  hour  or  more  until  the  birds  are  tender.  Then 
turn  off  part  of  the  gravy,  and  keep  turning  the  birds  in  the  re- 


GAME.  157 

mainder  until  they  brown  nicely.  Then  heat  the  remaining  gravy 
and  turn  over  them,  adding  a  little  thyme  and  pepper.  Keep  turning 
until  pigeons  and  gravy  are  brown.  Take  up  the  pigeons.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  little  browned  flour,  and  serve  the  pigeons  with  the 
gravy  turned  around  them.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Pig^eon  Bird's  Nest. — Boil  some  yellow  macaroni  gently  until  it 
is  quite  swelled  out  and  tender ;  then  cut  it  in  pieces  the  length  of  a 
finger  and  lay  them  on  a  dish  like  a  straw  nest,  'truss  pigeons  with 
the  heads  on  (having  scalded  and  picked  them  clean),  turn  under 
the  left  wing,  leave  the  feet  on,  and  having  stewed  them  arrange  them 
as  in  a  nest.  Pour  gravy  over  and  serve.  The  nest  may  be  made  of 
boiled  rice  or  bread  cut  in  pieces  the  length  of  a  finger  and  fried  a 
nice  brown  in  hot  lard  or  butter  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Any 
small  bird  may  be  stewed  or  roasted  and  served  in  this  way. 

Quail. 

Boast  Quail. — Pick  and  sponge  the  bird  carefully,  singe  and 
draw.  Lard  the  breast  thickly  with  strips  of  salt  pork  drawn  through 
it  with  a  larding  needle ;  or  fasten  very  thin  slices  of  the  pork  closely  ' 
over  the  breast  with  wooden  toothpicks.  Truss  the  legs  close  to  the 
body  and  tie,  removing  the  string  before  sending  to  the  table.  Place 
in  a  baking  pan,  salt  and  dust  with  pepper.  Baste  with  stock  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes. 

QuaU  on  Toast. — Dress  carefully,  removing  the  feathers  without 
scalding,  singe.  Split  down  the  back,  lay  on  the  table  and  hit  it  a 
sharp  blow,  breaking  it.  This  prevents  the  muscles  from  drawing 
up  when  cooking.  Butter  carefully,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Broil  slowly,  skin  side  down,  for  20  minutes ;  turn  and  broil  on  other 
side  for  a  few  minutes.  Butter  and  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast,  a 
quail,  breast  up,  on  each  slice ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with 
olives  or  currant  jelly. 

QuaU  Pie. — Prepare  according  to  directions  for  Pigeon  Pie. 

Boast  Quail  with  Bread  Sauce. — Pick  and  singe  6  quail,  drawn 
carefully,  cut  off  heads  and  feet,  wipe  and  roast  in  a  very  hot  oven, 
as  soon  as  they  begin  to  brown  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter. 
Turn  once  so  that  both  sides  will  be  browned  equally,  about  20  min 
utes  will  cook  the  birds.  Baste  with  the  butter  several  times.  Make 
the  Bread-sauce  for  Game.    Fry  one-half  pint  of  bread  crumbs  in  2 


158  GAME. 

tablespoonfuls  of  hot  butter;  dust  with  cayenne  pepper  and  stir  until 
a  light  brown.  Put  in  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  qiiail  upon  them,  and  send 
in  to  the  table,  serving  the  sauce  in  a  separate  dish. 

Stewed  Pheasarrts.— ^Cut  a  roast  pheasant  into  neat  joints  as  for 
eating.  Beat  the  liver  fine  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  add  a 
wineglassful  each  of  port  wine  and  of  water,  and  the  juice  of -half  a 
lemon.  Slice  an  onion  and  divide  it  into  rings,  roll  a  lump  of  butter 
'well  in  flour,  and-  put  all  into  a  stewing  pan.  When  it  simmers  stir 
well  round  without  breaking  the  onion  rings,  then  layJn  the  joints  of 
pheasant.  When  thoroughly  hdiated  place  the  birds  on  a  hot  dish, 
surrounded  with  sippits  of  toast,  on  each  of  which  a  small  block  of 
red  currani  jelly  has  been  laid.  Strain  the  sauce  around  the  bird, 
and  arrange  the  rings  of  onions  in  a  chain  over  the  pheasant.  Send 
to  table  with  halved  lemons. 

Woodcock  Broiled. — Dress,  split  down  the  back  and  broil  on  a 
well  buttered  gridiron,  cook  slowly  until  a  delicate  brown.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  on  buttered  toast,  half  a  bird  on 
each  slice. 

Woodcocks  on  Toaist. — For  6  persons  there  will  be  required  6 
woodcocks,  6  slices  of  stale  bread  about  2  inches  thick,  half  a  pint  of 
butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  1  teaspaonful  of  onion  juice. 
Pliicki  singe  and  draw  the  birds.  Save  the  livers  and  hearts.  Skin 
^the  heads  and  truss  the  birds,  skewering  the  legs  with  the  bills.  Sea- 
son with  1}^  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  half  the  pepper.  Now  rub  soft 
butter  over  the  bireast,  legs  and  sides.  Place  the  birds  on  their  backs 
in  a  dripping  pan  and  at  the  proper  time  cook  them  for  12  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  Arrange  them  tastefully  over  the  toast.  Place  in  a 
hot  dish  and  garnish  the  border  with  water  cresses  and  quarters  of 
lemon.     Serve  immediately. 

Game  Pie. — ^Take^  about  2  dozen  of  woodcock,  quail,  snipe  or 
other  small  :birds.  Split  each  one  in  half  and  put  them  into^a  sauce 
'pan  containing  about  a  gallon  of  cold  water,  although  beef  broth  or 
soup  stock  would  be  preferable.  See  that  the  fire  is  hot,  and  when 
the  boiling  point  has  been  reached,  carefully  skim  off  all  the  scum 
from  the  surface,  and  put  in  for  seasoning  a  little  pepper  and  salt  with 
mace  and  1  bay  leaf,  adding  half  a  pound  slice  of  salt  pork-cut  into 
squares,  2  small  carrots  and  1  onion.  Boil  until  tender,  being 
careful  that  there  is  enough  broth  to  cover  the  game.    Into  another 


GAME.  159 

saucepan  put  4  ounces  of  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  browned  flour, 
mixing  well  and  stirring  into  it  a  part  of  the  broth  or  gravy  so  as  to 
make  a  thin  sauce.  Strain  off  what  broth  remains  in  the  first  saude- 
pan,  removing  therefrom  the  vegetables  and  spices  to  go  with  the 
sauce.  Slice,  and  cut  into  dice  shape,  potatoes  equal  in  quantity  to 
the  meat,  and  put  in  a  deep  baking  dish ;  put  on  the  top  crust  of 
dough  and  bake  in  an  oven  that  is  not  too  hot. 

Prairie  CMcken,  Boasted. — Prepare  as  for  "  Roasted  Pigeons." 
Omit  oysters  from  the  stuffing  and  add  chopped  parsley,  or  summer 
savory.  Moisten  the  dressing  with  melted  butter.  Pour  a  Very 
little  water  in  the  baking  pan.  Baste  with  melted  butter.  Cook 
1  hour. 

Broiled  Prairie  Glucken. — Prairie  chicken  may  be  split  down 
the  back  and  broiled  like  woodcock. 

Snipe.! — Snipe  are  similiar  to  woodcock  and  may  be  served  in  the 
same  manner.    They  require  some  less  cooking. 

Plover. — Dress,  wipe,  not  wash,  season  and  lay  each  bird  on  a 
sliqe  of  buttered  toast.  Arrange  them  in  a  baking  pan,  dredge  with 
floiir,  put  in  the  oven  and  roast  briskly  30  minutes,  basting  frequently 
with  melted  butter.  A  brown  pan  gravy  is  best  for  this.  Snipe  may 
also  be  cooked  in  this  manner. 

Beed  Birds. — Pick  and  draw  carefully,  salt  and  dredge  with  flour 
and  roast  with  a  quick  fire  10  or  15  minutes.  Butter  the  birds  and 
serve  on  buttered  toast,  seasoning  with  pepper.  An  oyster  dipped  in 
melted  butter  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  may  be  put  inside  of  each 
one  before  roasting.  They  may  also  be  broiled  same  as  pigeons  and ' 
woodcock.  J- 

Ortolans  and  Baif  Birds. — Stuff  and  roast  same  as  pigeons,  or 
broil  and  serve  on  toast  like  quail.     Ten  minutes  will  cook  them. 

Canvas-back  Duck. — To  prepare  canvas-back  ducks  care  must 
be  taken  to  draw  the  trail  without  breaking  the  entrails.  If  this  is 
accomplished,  the  ducks  need  not  be  washed,  but  simply  wiped  out 
with  a  soft  dry  cloth.  Truss  the  head  under  the  wing.  Then  sprinkle 
them  inside  with  white  celery,  chopped  fine,  and  a  little  salt  and  allow 
them  to  cook  briskly  for  20  or  30  minutes.  Serve  hot,  with  thin, 
slices  of  fried  hominy  and  currant  jelly.  This  bird  requires  no  extra 
flavors  to  render  it  perfect.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  pan  drippings, 
thickened  with  a  little  browned  flour. 


160  GAME. 

Boast  Wild.  Duck. — Parboil  with  an  onion  in  each  to  remove  the 
fishy  flavor.  Use  a  carrot  unless  there  is  to  be  onion  in  the  dressing. 
Stuff  with  any  of  the  dressings  used  for  tame  ducks  and  roast  until 
tender,  basting  at  first  with  melted  butter  and  then  with  the  gravy  in 
the  pan.  Weaken  the  pan  gravy  with  boiling  water,  thicken  with 
browned  flour  and  stir  in  1  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly.  Serve 
separately.     Half  an  hour  will  answer  for  a  young,  tender  duck. 

Boast  Wild  Duck  (Western  Style).^Dress  immediately  after 
killing.  If  cool  weather,  hang  several  days.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven, 
letting  it  remain  5  or  10  minutes  without  basting  to  keep  in  the  natu- 
ral juices,  then  baste  frequently  with  butter  and  water.  Bake  about 
30  minutes.  Serve  immediately  on  a  hot  dish.  Send  in  with  the 
following  sauce. 

Sauce.- — Put  in  a  small  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  each  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce  and  mushroom,  or  tomato  catsup,  a  little  salt  and  cay- 
enne pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix  well  and  heat  thor- 
oughly hot.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard,  Serye  at  once  in  a  separate  dish. 

Small  Birds  Baked  in  Sweet  Potatoes. — Have  as  many  sweet 
potatoes  of  medium  size  as  there  are  small  birds.  Boil  them  fcr  1 
hour.  Have  the  birds  plucked,  drawn  and  washed.  Season  them 
with  salt  and  a  little  pepper  and  rub  soft  butter  over  them.  Pare  the 
sweet  potatoes  and  cut  a  thin  slice  from  each  end.  Now,  scoop  out 
the  center  of  the  potato,  making  a  cavity  large  enough  to  hold  a  bird. 
Season  the  potato  with  salt  and  spread  soft  butter  over  the  surface. 
Place  the  birds  in  the  potatoes,  which  should  be  set  on  end  in  a  shal- 
low pan  and  in  a  hot  oven  for  15  minutes.  Arrange  the  potatoes  on 
a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  very  hot.  To  have  this 
dish  in  perfectiop,  butter  must  be  used  generously. 


In  selecting  beef  choose  that  of  a  fine 
smooth  grain,  of  a  bright  red  color  and 
white  fat.  It  should  be  firna  to  the  touch 
and  the  suet  should  be  dry  and  flaky.  In  old  beef 
both  flesh  and  fat  will  be  coarser  in  fibre  and  darker, 
compared  with  ^'oung  beef.  To  tell  whether  it  is  fresh 
or  not,  press  against  it  with  the  finger,  and  if  it  is  elastic 
and  resumes  its  place  quickly,  it  is  fresh ;  if  the  dent  made  by  the 
finger  remains,  or  if  it  is  slippery  or  wet,  avoid  it,  for  it  is  already  in 
the  first  stages  of  decay  and  is  unwholesome.  The  texture  of  good 
beef  is  smooth  and  close-grained,  and  when  cold  should  appear 
marbled  with  fat.  When  it  is  very  lean-looking,  or  stringy,  or  rough, 
it  is  too  old.  The  fat  should  not  be  solid  and  hard  like  that  of  mut- 
ton, but  should  be  flaky,  and  the  suet  fat  should  be  so  dry  that  it  will 
crumble.  When  the  fat  is  oily  or  dnlf  in  color,  thd  beef  is  sure  to  b« 
of  bad  quality.        ^ 

Few  who  enter  a  butcher's  stall  know  that  the  parts  nourished  by 
muscular  use  secrete  the  flavor  and  juices.  JTake,  for  example,  th« 
neck  and  forequarter  of  a  sheep  or  ox,  which  are  among  the  cheaper 
cuts.  As  far  as  nutritious  properties  are  concerned,  they  far  surpass 
the  tenderloin  and  other  more  expensive  cuts.  Broth  made  from  the 
neck  of  mutton  that  has  had  muscular  use  has  more  flavor  than  that 
made  from  the  ribs.  The  same  is  true  also  of  the  legs  and  wings  of 
a  fowl. 

The  best  roasting  piece  of  beef,  excepting  the  sirloin,  is  the  first 
cut  of  the  rib.  The  back  of  the  rump  is  the  cheapest  for  roasting,|/ 
as  the  meat  is  all  good  and  contains  a  small  amount  of  bone.  Th« 
aitch  bone  is  the  nicest  for  a  stew.  It  will  serve  a  small  family  for  a 
roast,  and  then  may  be  use^  for  a  stew.  The  flavor  obtained  by  roast- 
ing adds  much  to  the  soup.  The  bones  of  a  rib  roast  may  be  reniovedj 
the  meat  rolled  and  the  bones  saved  for  soup. 

The  flank  is  used  principally  for  corning,  though  some  dealers  sell 
a  flank  steak,  which  is  a  very  cheap,  cut,  but  by  scoring  and  seasoning 
COOK— U  "        161 


162 


MEATS. 


with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  it  forms  a  juicy,  nutritious  dish.  The 
iflank  can  also  be  cut  up  for  a  §tew,  or  soup. , 

Steak  is  really  in  most  demand,  sirloin  and  porter-house  being  the 
choice  cuts.  In  the  round,  the  third  cut  is  the  juiciest  and  best  steak. 
The  round  makes  good  braised  beef,  or  pot-roast.    The  shank  is 

utilized  as  a  soup  bone. 
The  hock  also  for  soup;  the 
rump  to  roast  or  boil.  If 
the  round  steak  is  wished 
for  broiling,  purchase  the 
upper  round,  but  for.  Ham- 
burg steaks,  bouillon,  any- 
thing in  which  the  meat  is 
to  be  chopped  before  using, 
the  lower  round  will  do  as 
well  at  a  much  less  cost.  In 
buying  a  roast  of  beef  it  is 
usually  economy  to  get  a 
good-sized  one.  The  meat 
is  better,  and  made-over 
dishes  cost  far  less  than  a 
roast  each  day. 

Beef  is  considered  the 
most  generally  useful  meat 
for  the  family  meals,  and  it 
is  the  most  economical  also. 
It  can  be  obtained  all  the 
year,  but  is  in  peifection  in 
the  winter  because  the  joints 
can  then  be  hung  long 
enough  to  become  quite 
Joints  of  Beef.  tender.     In  summer,  wipC 

off"  any  moisture  which,  may  arise  (if  it  hangs  but  a  night  the  joint 
will  be  improved),  but  do  not  wash  meat  for  roasting  unless  quite 
necessary.  If  the  flies  have  touched  any  part,  rub  it  with  a  cloth 
dipped  in  vinegar,  then  dry  it  and  sprinkle  with  flour.  The  lean  of 
good  beef  is  bright;  in  color,  and  the  fat  whitish  and  firm ;  very  lean 
beef  is  always  inferior,  while,  if  too  fat,  it  is  far  from  economicaL 


MEATS.  163 

Ox  beef  is  the  best  of  all;  the  flesh  is  smoothly  grained,  and  will 
rise  when  pressed  with  th?  finger  in  a  young  animal.  Heifer  beef  is 
smaller  and  better  suited  for  small  families ;  the  meat  is  somewhat 
paler,  and  closer  in  the  grain.  Bull  beef  is  dark  in  color,  with  little 
fat,  a  coarse  grain,  and  a  stropg  smell,  and  should  never  be  chosen. 
Butchers  in  good  localities  do  not,  however,  expose  it  for  sale.  Very 
rank  smelling,  highly  colored,  and  greasy  looking  fat  is  indicative  of 
oil-cake  feeding,  and  although  not  necessarily  unwholesome,  jt  is  far 
from  economical,  and  the  flavor  is  not  liked  by  many  people.  Beef 
is  thus  divided : — 1.  sirloin,  2.  top  or  ait'ch  bone,  3.  rump,  4.  buttock 
or  round,  5.  mouse  buttock,  6.  veiny  piece,  7.  thick  flank,  8.  thin  flank, 
9.  leg,  10.  fore  rib  (5  ribs),  11.  middle  rib  (4  ribs),  12.  chuck  rib  (3  ribs), 
13.  shoulder,  14.  brisket,  15.  clod,  16.  sticking,  17.  shin,  18,  cheeks 
or  head. 

Veal. — ^Veal  is  considered  best  when  the  animal  is  from  2  to  3  or 
4  months  old.  The  flesh  of  the  bull-calf  is  most  suitable  for  joints, 
being  firmer  in  grain,  and  fuller  in  flavor,  but  the  coW-calf  is  whiter, 
and  therefore  preferred  for  many  dishes ;  the  fillet,  too,  is  esteemed 
on  account  of  the  udder,  which  is  largely  used  for  force-meat,  particu- 
larly by  French  cooks. 

In  chobsing  veal,  look  out  for  a  nice  colored  flesh,  free  from  bruises, 
and  the  fat  of  a  pinkish  white ;  a  small  kidney,  well  surrounded  by 
fat,  proves  good  condition.  The  suet  in  the  region  of  the  kidney 
should  be  sweet  to  the  smell,  and  firm  to  the  touch,  with  no  spots  or 
blemishes ;  the  same  remarks  apply  to  the  sweetbread.  Veal  has  a 
tendency  to  turn  very  quickly,  and  is  most  unwholesome  if  the  least 
tainted ;  it  should  not  be  kept  more  than  a  day  or  two  in  hot  weather, 
though,  if  eaten  quite  fresh,  it  is  apt  to  be  tough.  To  assist  it  in 
keeping,  the  pipe  should  be  taken  from  the  loin,  the  skirt  taken  from 
the  breast,  and  the  inside  wiped  and  floured.  It  is  a  good  plan  to 
put  it  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  in  cold,  until  it  is  cool; 
dry  it,  and.  hang  it  in  the  coolest  part  of  the  house  until  wanted. 

With  regard  to  the  digestibility  of  veal,  the  opinion  amongst 
medical  and  other  authorities  seems  to  be  almost  universal,  that  the 
suffering  sometimes  caused  by  it  is  due,  for  the  most  part,  to  its  highly 
gelatinous  nature,  as  this  renders  mastication  difficult ;  and  there  seems 
good  reason  for  the  belief,  when  one  remembers  that  many  people  can 
cat  braised  or  stewed  veal  without  discomfort,  who  suffer  from  a  meal 


104 


MEATS. 


of  roast  veal,  particularly  if  eaten  cold.  At  any  rate  there  seems  no 
reason  to  think  that  there  is  anything  in  the  composition  of  the  flesh 
itself  which  should  give  rise  to  suffering,  where  it  can  be  perfectly 
masticated.     Here,  as  elsewhere,  e^ch  must  be  a  law  unto  himself. 

The  annexed  diagram  shows  the  usual  method  of  cutting  up  a  calf: 
I.  the  loin,  2.  the  chump,  (consisting  of  the  rump  and  hock  bone,  3.  the 

fillet,  4.  the  hind-knuckle, 
5.  the  fore-knuckle,  6  and  7. 
the  neck,  8.  ..the  shoulder, 
9  and  10.  the  breast.  To 
these  must  be  added  the 
head  and  feet,  and  the  pluck, 
which  consists  of  the  heart, 
liver,  lights,  milt,  skirt,  nut, 
and  the  sweetbreads ;  of  the 
latter  there"  are  two>  one 
from  the  throat,  and  the 
other  called  the  heart  sweet- 
bread, the  larger  and  dearer, 
if  sold  alone. 

We  would  again  urge 
the  importance  of  long,  slow 
cooking.  A  joint  of  veal, 
with  the  slightest  appear- 
ance of  rawness,  will  prove 
unwholesome ;  it  should  be 
of  an  uniform  whiteness 
right  through  to  the  bone ; 
and,  in  order  that  the  color 
Joints  of  Veal.  ^j^y    be    preserved,    veal 

should  never  be  laid  upon  a  dish  before  cooking  for  any  length  of 
time ;  the  very  pressure  causes,  not  only  discoloration,  but  taint.  This 
may  be  said  to  an  extent  of  all  meat,  but  especially  emphasized  in 
the  case  of  veal. 

^The  best  mutton,  and  that  from  which  most  nourishment  is 
obtained,  is  that  of  sheep  of  from  three  to  six  years  old,  and  which 
have  been  fed  on  dry  sweet  pastures.  The  flesh  of  sheep  which  have 
been  reared  on  farms  near  the  sea-costst  is  also  sweet  and  wholesome; 


MEATS. 


166 


the  saline  particles  abounding  in  such  situations  impart  both  firmness 
and  a  fine  flavor.  To  suit  the  palate  of  an  epicure,  a  sheep  should 
never  be  killed  earlier  than  its  fifth  year,  at  which  age  the  mutton 
will  be  found  firm  and  succulent,  and  full  of  the  richest  gravy.  This 
is,  however,  not  easily  obtained  at  the  present  time. 

To  ascertain  the  age  of  mutton  the  following  directions  may  be 
given  : — Observe  the  color  of  breast-bones  when  a  sheep  is  dressed, 
that  is,  where  the  breast-bone  is  separated.  In  a 
lamb,  or  before  the  sheep  is  one  year  old,  it  will 
be  quite  red ;  from  one  to  two  years  old,  the  upper 
and  lower  bones  will  be  changing  to  white,  and 
a  small  circle  of'white  will  appear  round  the  edge 
of  the  other  bones,  and  the  middle  part  of  the 
breast-bone  will  yet  continue  red ;  at  three  years 
old,  a  very  small  streak  of  white  will  be  seen  in 
the  middle  of  the  four  middle  bones,  and  the 
others  will  be  white  ;  and  at  four  years  old,  all 
the  breast-bones  will  be  of  a  white  or  gristly  color. 

Wether  mutton  is  the  best ;  although  it  is  often 
easier  to  buy  ewe  mutton  of  a  mature  age,  it  is 
inferior,  and  sells  at  a  lower  price.  Ram  mutton 
is  to  be  avoided  when  very  strong  and  coarse,  and 
if  the  fat  is  of  a  deep  yellow. 

Mutton  should  be  fairly  fat,  and  the  fat  should 
be  firm.  Butchers  complain  sometimes  (and  with 
reason)  of  the  inconsistency  of  some  customers 
in  their  demands  for  the  best  meat,  without  fat ! 
How  can  they  possibly  get  it  ?  The  small  breeds 
will  best  suit  such  people,  and  it  is  worth  every- 
one's while  to  give  the  preference  to  small  mutton  Joints  of  Mutton, 
generally — i.  e.  meat  with  small  bones ;  they  usually  indicate  a  good 
breed ;  whereas,  large  bones  are  associated  with  coarseness  of  fibre 
and  poorer  flavor.  The  lean  ought  to  be  rich  in  color,  and  not  give 
out  much  moisture ;  flabbiness  and  clamminess  always  prove  that  the 
meat  is  inferior. 

Mutton  is  cut  up  as  shown  in  the  figure.  1.  The  leg ;  2.  The 
loin ;  3.  Best  end  of  loin ;  4.  Neck,  best  end  ;  5.  Neck,  scrag  end ; 
6.  Shoulder;  7.  Breast.    Besides  these,  there  are  the  head  and  feet, 


166 


MEATS. 


heart,  liver,  and  other  internal  organs,  all  treated  under  various 
headings. 

House  liamb  (by  which  is  meant  lamb  born  in  the  middle  of 
winter,  reared  under  shelter,  and  fed,  in  a  great  measure,  upon  milk) 
is  considered  a  great  delicacy.  It  may  be  obtained  from  Christmas 
to  April  1st.  Then  grass  lamb,  or  lamb  brought  up  out  of  doors, 
and  feed  upon  grass,  comes  into  season.  Like  all  young  animals, 
lamb  ought_  to  be  thoroughly  cooked,  or  it  is  most  unwholesome. 
Lamb  is  usually  cut  into  quarters,  and  of  these  the  fore-quarter^  which 

cofisists  of  the  shoulder  (3)>*  the 
breast  (5),  and  the  neck  (4),  is  con- 
sidered by  many  the  best.  It  should 
be  cooked  fresh,  and  its  quality  may 
be  tested  by  the  appearance  of  the 
vein  of  the  neck,  which  should  be. 
ruddy  or  of  a  bluish  color.  If  green. 
Lamb  Divided  into  Joints.  jj  jg  not  good.  It  is-  generally 
roasted,  though  in  very  young  lamb,  the  leg,  which  is  frequently 
served  by  itself,  and  makes  a  useful  and  excellent  joint,  may  be  boiled 
and  sent  to  the  table  with  a  suitable  sauce.  The  hind-quarter,  consist- 
ing of  the  leg  (1)  and  loin  (2),  is  better  for  hanging  two  or  three  days. 
As,  however,  lamb  lyill  not  keep  well  in  unfavorable  weather,  or 
for  any  length  of  tiriie,  it  should  tje  examined  daily,  and  the  moisture 
carefully  wiped  from  the  joints.  Ifa  order  to  ascertain  whether  or 
not  it  is  fresh,  place  the  finger  between  the  loin  and  kidney.  Any 
taint  may  be  easily  discovered  by  the  smell.  The  fat  of  lamb  should 
be  firm  and  light,  the  lean  clear  and  also  firm,  especially  the  knuckle. 
If  the  fat  be  yellow,  and  lean  flabby  and  red,  the  lamb  is  of  inferior 
quality,  and  will  not  keep.  Where  economy  is  a  consideration,  lamb 
should  not  be  bought  before  it  is  five  months  old. 

When  lamb  becomes  large  enough,  the  quarters  are  sub-divided 
into  joints.  The  leg  is  the  most  profitable  for  a  family,  but  the 
shoulder  is  very  delicious  in  flavor.  The  loin  makes  a  most  excellent 
roast  while  the  neck  and  breast  may  be  cooked*  in  various  ways,  all 
of  them  appetizing.  The  head,  sweetbread,  and  fry  are  much  esteemedj, 
and  furnish  many  dishes  of  a  dainty  kind. 

Pork. — ^This  is  firm,  with  clear,  white  skin.  The  lean,  a  pale 
red,  and  the  fat  purcTvhite.-  Spare  ribs  and  loin  are  best  roasting 


MEATS. 


167 


pieces.  Hams  and  shoulders  are  smoked.  The  less  choice  pieces 
pickled,  and  the  remainder  used  for  sausage,  while  the  head  and  feet 
are  utilized  respectively  as  head  cheese  and  souse.  Never  buy  a  ham 
because  it^is  cheap.  Do  not  select  too  lean  a  joint.  The  fat  of  a 
ham  is  often  considered  so  much  waste  weight ;  so  it  may  be  in  many 
famihes.  But  a  well-fed  and  quickly  fattened  hog  will  furnish  tender, 
juicy  and  fine-flavored  meat.  Bear  this  in  mind, 
and  be  willing  to  lose  a  little  extra  fat  for  gain  in 
the  superior  qualities.  Let  the  joint  be  well- 
rounded  and  plump  and  see  that  the  skin  is  thin 
and  pliable.  Choose  freshly  cured  hams  if  pos-, 
sible. 

The  size  of  a  ham  has  much  to  do  with  the 
way  in  which  it  should  be  served.  A  whole  ham 
will  boil  more  satisfactorily  than  a  part  of  it. 
For  broiling  or  frying  never  use  a  ham  of  less 
than  fourteen  pounds,  and  one  weighing  fifteen 
or  sixteen  is  better  still  for  this  purpose.  Only 
the  center  of  such  a  ham,  however,  should  be 
sliced.  Take  off  at  least  two  inches  from  the 
large  end  of  the  ham  in  one  cut.  Then  slice  up 
the  remainder  as  it  is  needed,  until  the  upper 
joint  in  the  bone  is  reached.  This  shank,  with 
the  other  end  first  taken  off,  may  be  used  to 
advantage.  To  judge  the  state  of  a  ham,  plunge 
a  knife  into  it  to  the  bone.  If  particles  of  meat 
adhere  to  it,  or  if  the  odor  is  bad,  the  ham  is 
not  good.  A  short,  thick  ham  should  be  pre- 
ferred. I  Joints  of  Pork. 

Pork,  more  than  any  meat,  must  be  chosen  with  the  greatest  care. 
The  pig,  from  its  habits,  is  particularly  liable  to  disease,  and  if  killed 
and  eaten  in  an  unhealthy  state>  those  who  partake  of  it  may  pay 
dearly  for  the  indulgence.  Dairy-fed  pork  is  best,  and  it  is  safest  to 
buy  it  direct  from  a  farm,  or  from  a  reliable  dealer.  Pork  is  in 
season  only  in  cold  weather,  and  should  be, rigidly  avoided  in  sum- 
mer ;  it  is  then  positively  dangerous.  The  fat  should  be  firm,  and 
the  lean  delicate  in  color,  and  fine  in  the  grain;  the  skin  should  be 
delicate.    If  the  skin  is  thick,  the  pig  was  old ;  if  clammy,  it  proves 


^v 

• 

• 
• 

f 

1 

168  MEATS. 

staleness.    Kernels  and  discolorations  in  the  fat  prove  an  unhealthy 
condition  at  the  time  of  billing. 

Pork  cannot  be  kept  long  in  the  fresh  state,  but  unless  hung  for 
a  short  time  it  will  be  hard.  All  the  internal  organs  cannot  be  too 
fresh  when  eaten.  We  would  specially  warn  the  inexperienced  against 
what  is  known  in  the  trade  as  "offal-fed  pork."  It  is,  however,  never 
seen  in  good  localities,  and  no  butcher  with  a  reputation  to  maintain 
deals  in  it.  It  can  be  told  by  its  dark  color,  strong  smell,  and  unplea- 
sant flavor.  No  meat  requires  more  care  in  cooking  than  pork:  the 
least  portion  underdone  is  more  than  unwholesome,  and  it-should 
be  withheld  from  persons  of  weak  digestion,  as  well  as  invalids 
generally.  A  pig  is  thus  divided:  1.  Spare  rib;  2.  Hand;  3.  Belly; 
4.  Fore  loin ;  5.  Hind  loin ;  6.  Leg.    The  chine  is  the  neck  whole, 

-   Bacon. — In  a  pig  of  fair  size,  the  chine,  which  is  excellent  for 
roasting  or  boiling,  is  cut  from  between  the  sides  or  flitches  as  shown 

in  the  diagram;  but  if  the  pig 
is  small,  the  flitches  should  be 
divided  down  the  chine.  The 
shoulders  may  be  left  attached 
to  the  sides,  or  separated,  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  pig. 
The  legs  are  made  into  hams. 
Diagram  of  Bacon  Pig.  ^nd   the  sides  form  what  is 

bacon  proper.  The  head  maybe  served  in  various  ways.  If  divided, 
the  halves  are  called  cheeks ;  or,  if  again  cut  through,  the  top  part 
is  termed  eye-piece,  and  the  lower  one  chap,  or  chawl.  These  are 
-  generally  salted  and  boiled.  The  inner  fat  is  made  into  lard.  The 
trimmings  are  converted  into  Sausages,  Pies,  etc.  A.  Shows  the 
chine ;  b.  The  head ;  c.  The  leg ;  d.  The  flitch ;  e.  The  shoulder. 

Tenison. — ^Venison,  like  mutton,  is  better  when  of  mature  age. 
It  must  be  kept  until  in  the  right  state  for  table,  and  much  care  is 
needed  to  cook  it  properly^  but  when  propferly  dressed,  and  served 
very  hot,  with  plenty  of  good  gravy,  it  is  in  every  respect  worthy  of 
the  high  estimation  in  which  it  is  held  by  epicures. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  venison.     Of  these  the  fallow  deer  is 
much  the  best.     Buck  venison,  which  is  in  season  from  June  to  the 
end  of  September,  is  finer  thap  doe  venison,  which  is  in  season  from  ' 
October  to  December.    Neither  should  be  dressed  at  any  other  time 


MEATS. 


169 


of  the  year.  The  haunch  is  the  prime  joint,  though  the  neck  and 
shoulder  are  much  approved,  and  may  be  dressed  in  various  ways. 
As  soon  as  it  is  cut  up  it  should  be  taken  into  a  cool  dry  larder,  dried 
with  a  cloth,  and  hung  in  an  airy 
plac«.  Dry  ginger  and  pepper  should 
be  dusted  over  it  to  keep  off  the  flies. 
'-  It  should  be  examined  and  care- 
fully wiped  every  day,  or  twice  a  day 
in  unfavorable  weather,  and  it  should 
be  kept  as  long  as  it  is  possible  to 
preserve  it  untainted.  Excepting  in 
very  mild  weather,  it  will  keep  a  fort- 
night with  care.  In  order  to  ascer- 
tain its  condition,  run  a  skewer  close 
to  the  bone,  and  from  this  judge  of  the 
sweetness  of  the  venison.  If  it  should 
inadvertently    become    musty,  first  Venison, 

wash  it  with  lukewarm  water,  and  afterwards  with  tepid  milk  and 
water,  then  dry  it  very  thoroughly.  The  lean  of  venison  should  be 
dark  and  fine  in  the  grain;  the  fat,  of  which  there  should  be  a  good 
supply,  ought  to  be  firm,  white  and  clear.  To  ascertain  the  age,  the 
cleft  of  the  hoof,  which  is  always  left  on,  must  be  examined.  If  very 
smooth  and  small,  the  animal  is  young.  If  rough  and  large,  it  proves 
age.  Venison  is  cut  up  as  shown  in  figure:  \.  shoulder;  2.  fore- 
loin  ;  3.  haunch  or  loin ;  4.  breast ;  6.  scrog  ^r  neok. 

EQnts  on  Cooking'  Mesifts. — When  cutting  meat  to  cook,  always 
cut  across  the  grain  of  the  muscle.  Never  wash  fresh  meat  before 
roasting ;  scrape  it,  if  necessary  to  clean  it,  then  wipe  with  a  cloth 
damped  with  vinegar.  If  the  meat  is  in  any  way  discolored,  cut  that 
part  away  and  wash  afterwards  with  vinegar.  Never  put  meat  directly 
on  the  ice;  put  it  in  a  vessel  on  the  ice;  water  draws  out  the  juices. 
If  you  baste  roast  meats,  do  not  use  salt  in  the  basting ;  salt  the  meat 
when  removed  from  the  oven.  •  Salt  and  season  boiling  meats  while 
cooking.  Never  salt  and  pepper  broiling  meats  while  cooking.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  after  removing  from  the  gridiron. 
An  ordinary  pan  is  good  for  broiling ;  heat  very  hot ;  use  no  fat  of 
any  kind;  put  the  meat  flat  on  the  pan,  turn  rapidly  and  often,  and 
you  will  find  a  "  pan  broil "  very  good  j  season  when  done. 


170  MEATS. 

How  to  Use  Glace. — Glace  is  merely  very  strong  gravy  boiled 
down  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  liquid  jelly ;  when  it  is  of  this 
thickness  pour  it  from  the  sauce-pan  at  once  or  it  will  burn ;  when  it 
is  required  for  use  stand  the  jar  in  which  it  is  kept  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  and  melt  it  gently;  to  glace  cutlets  or  meats,  lay  it  on  with  a 
brush  until  it  forms  a  varnish. 

To  broil  meat  well  the  gridiron  must  be  hot  beforethe  meat  is  put 
on,  the  meat  should  be  turned  rapidly  in  order  to  produce  an  equal 
effect,  but  the  meat  should  not  be  punctured  with  a  fork.  If  it  is 
necessary  to  use  a  fork,  insert  it  iA  the  fat.  In  this  way  less  of  the 
juice  of  the  meat  escapes.  In  boiling  meat  it  is  important  to  keep 
the  water  constantly  boiling,  otherwise  the  meat  will  absorb  the  water; 
add  boiling  water  when  needed ;  remove  the  scum  when  it  begins  to 
boil ;  allow  20  minutes  for  boiling  for  each  pound  of  meat  (fresh)* 
The  more  gently  meat  boils  the  more  tender  it  will  be.  Salt  meat 
should  be  put  into  cold  water  and  boiled  slowly ;  a  red  pepper  dropped 
into  the  water  will  prevent  the  rising  of  an  unpleasant  odor.  '  Fresh 
meat,  unless  for  soup,  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  and  be  allowed 
to  cook  very  gently ;  no  salt  to  be  added  until  nearly  done. 

Boasts. — In  roasting,  put  into  a  hot  oven  and  baste  frequently, 
In  roasting  beef  it  is  necessary  to  have  a  brisk  fire;  baste  often;  12 
minutes  is  required  for  every  pound  of  beef;  season  when  nearly  done. 
The  orthodox  rule  for  the  cooking  of  meat,  fish  or  fowl,  is  to  allow  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  to  every  pound;  yet  this  recipe  needs  to  be  mixed 
with"  brains.  Some  families  like  rare,  others  well-done  meats.  If  the 
oven  is  hot,  20  minutes  for  each  pound  will  usually  insure  a  well-done 
roast.  The  oven  should  be  hottest  when  tlie  meat  is  first  put  in,  that 
the  surface  may  be  quickly  seared  and  the  pores  of  the  meat  sealed, 
thereby  confining  the  natural  juices.  An  oven  that  is  too  hot  to  hold 
the  hand  in  for  even  a  moment  is  right  to  receive  the  meat.  It  is 
well  to  put  the  roast  in  a  dry  pan,  and  place  under  it  a  few  pieces  of 
suet.  Omit  the  water  that  is  so  often  used,  as  this  has  a  tendency  to 
soften  the  outside  of  the  meat,  by  generating  steam  and  preventing 
crispness.  Baste  frequently  with  its  own  drippings  which  flow  from 
the  meal  when  partly  cooked.  "\ 

Full-grown  and  mature  meats,  such  as  beef  and  mutton,  are  best 
with  the  red  gravy  oozing  from  them ;  while  immature,  or  white 
meats,  such  as  Iamb,  veal,  pork,  etc.,  are  absolutely  dangerous  unless 


MEATS.  171 

done  through  to  the  bone.  A  good  rule  is  to  aI!ow  15  to  20  minutes, 
according  to  the  taste  of  the  family,  for  the  cooking  of  every  pound 
of  beef  and  mutton ;  18  to  20  minutes  for  the  cooking  of  every  pound 
of  pork,  veal,  lamb,  ham,  fish,  and  every  kind  of  fowl.  If  there  be 
doubt,  run  the  blade  of  a  knife  into  the  bone,  and  the  meat  carefully 
lifted  and  examined.  This  will  be  found  an  infallible  test.  It  is  quite 
right  that  next  to  the  bone  beef  and  mutton  should  be  red  and'  juicy, 
but  if  the  beef  be  blue  or  the  mutton  has  that  strange,  raw  look  pecu- 
liar to  mutton  that  has  just  felt  the  heat  of  the  fire,  the  joint  needs  a 
little  more  cooking.  White  meats  should  be  white,  even  to  the  bone, 
with  the  exception,  perhaps,  of  lamb,  which  many  people  prefer  with 
a  little  pinky  juice  oozing  through.  Lamb,  veal  and.  pork  should  be 
cooked  slower  than  beef,  with  a  more  moderate  fire. 

Broiling. — The  rules  for  roasting  meat  apply  to  broiling,  except 
that  instead  of  cooking  it  in  the  oven  it  is  to  be  quickly  browned  first 
on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other,  over  a  hot  fire,  and  removed  a  little 
from  the  fire  to  finish  cooking.  Meat  an  inch  thick  will  broil  in 
about  20  minutes.  A  beefsteak  cut  an  inch  thick  will  be  cooked  rare 
in  10  minutes.  A  mutton  chop  cut  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick 
win  cook  in  8  minutes.  Veal  and  pork  must  be  broiled  slowly  and 
for  a  long  time.  There  should  not  be  a  trace  of  pink  in  the  fibers 
when  the  meat  is  done.  The  chops  should  not  be  cut  more  than  half 
an  inch  thick.  They  will  be  well  done  with  12  minutes'  cooking. 
The  rule  for  finding  out  whether  they  are  sufficiently  cooked  by  ex- 
amining the  meat  next  the  bone  holds  good  for  them  also. 

Salt  Meats. — Salt  meats  are  not  so  easily  tested  as  fresh  meats, 
yet  even  Jiere  look  at  the  bone.  Beware  of  allowing  the  meat  to 
cook  so  long  that  it  raises  itself  from  the  bones,  as  it  were;  for  then  it 
is-what  is  graphically  known  as  being  "  done  to  rags.  "  In  boiling, 
salt  meats  should  be  covered  with  cold  water  and  require  30  minutes 
slow  boiling  to  each  pound,  counting  from  the  time  the  water  begins 
to  boil.  If  the  meat  is  very  salt,  pour  off  the  first  water  and  put  in 
another  of  boiling  water,  or  soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  After 
meat  begins  to  boil  it  should  not  cease  for  a  moment,  and  should  be 
rei^nished  from  a  boiling  teakettle. 

Tough  Meat  is  made  tender  by  adding  a  little  vinegar  to  the 
water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  Tough  steak  may  have  a  little  vinegar 
poured  over  it  and  be  allowed  to  stand  a  short  time.    Wipe  dry  and 


172  MEATS. 

cook.  The  improvement  is  marked.  Steak  may  also  be  rubbed  with 
baking-soda  the  night  before,  washed  off  next  niorning,  wiped  dry  and 
cooked  as  desired.     It  will  be  much  inore  tender.     Fowls  and  legs 

of  mutton   may  be 

treated  in  the  same 

way.  A  small  lump  of 

baking-soda  droppfed 

Steak  Hammer.  in  with  boiling  meat 

or  fowl  will  assist  in  making  it  more  tender.    The  soda  or  vinegar 

will  also  remove  any  slight  taint  about  the  meat. 

Tainted  Mfeat  maybe  freshened  by  sprinkling  charcoal  over  it,  or 
boiling  it  with  a  lump  of  charcoal  in  the  water.  Game  and  dressed 
fowls  can  be  sweetened  b/  lumps  of  charcoal  placed  in  the  interior. 

Beef. 

Boast  Beef. — ^Trim  the  meat,  wipe  it  with  a  damp  cjoth ;  never 
wash  it;  put  it  on  a  beef-steak  griddle  over  hot  coals  until  it  is  seared 
all  over ;  then  put  it  in  the  oven  to  finish.  !^or  a  3-pound  roast  30 
minutes  should  be  long  enough;  much  depends  upon  the  shape  of 
meat  and  the  heat  of  the  oven ;  never  baste  meat  or  /owls  with  any- 
thing but  clear  fat-drippings  or  butter;  never  put  a.  fork  into  any 
meat  or  fowl  of  any  kind  until  carving;  the  juice  follows  the  fork,  as 
you  take  it  out ;  the  meat  loses  its  flavor  and  richness ;  for  turning 
.  meat  use  cleaii  cloths,  or  wooden  paddles ;  seasoa  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Lay  a  few  bits  of  suet  in  the  pan  and  rest  the  m^at  on  them. 
Dredge  once  or  twice  with  flour.  When  done  take  park  out  of  the 
oven,  place  meat  on  a  dish,  pour  hot  water  in  the  pan,  about  1  cup- 
ful, have  some  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water,  pour  into  the  pan,  allow 
to  boil  a  few  minutes,  take  up  and  strain.  Browned  flour  makes  the 
gravy  more  palatable  in  appearance. 

Boast  Beef  witb.  Yorkshire  Pudding. — ^A  piece  of  from  7  to 
10  pounds  can  be  used  most  advantageously  for  a  family  of  six. 
HaTje  a  trivet  or  stand  fitting  the  roasting-pan,  and  put  the  meat  on 
it  in  a  very  hot  oven,  with  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  that  the  outside 
may  sear  over  at  once,  and  thus  retain  the  juices.  Dredge  with  flour 
after  the  first  fifteen  minutes  and  sprinkle  on  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Baste  often,  with  the  drippings 
in  the  pan,  and  dredge  at  least  once  more  with  flour,  shaking  it  lightly 


MEATS.  178 

from  a  flour-shaker.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  the  beef  is 
done  make  the  pudding  as  below.  If  no  stand  is  handy,  lift  the  meat 
upon  3  or  4  muffin  rings. 

Yorkshire  Pudding. — One  egg,  1  cupful  milk,  salt,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  baking-powder,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Half 
an  hour  before  the  roast  is  done  pour  this  into  the  pan  beneath  the 
roast.  If  the  pudding  is  to  be  baked  separately  from  the  roast,  which 
is  sometimes  more  convenient,  have  a  dish  hot  and  put  in  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  the  dripping  from  the  pan  into  the  dish;  pour  the  pud- 
ding in  and  bake  about  10  miniites  in  a  quick  oven:  pouring  a  spoon- 
ful or  two  of  gravy  over  it  while  cooking  improves  it.  Cut  it  in 
squares  and  serve  on  the  platter  with  the  roast.  If  water  is  used  in- 
stead of  milk  in  the  pudding,  add  a  tablespopnful  of  shortening. 

Fillet  of  Beef. — (This  is  the  tenderloin,  although  the  surloin  is 
sometimas  used.)  Trim  off  fat,  tough  skin,  etc.,  and  skewer  into 
shape  (round).  Lard  with  salt  pork  or  cover  with  strips  of  pork,  salt. 
Dredge  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  put  without  water  into  a 
small  pan.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  30  minutes ;  in  lower  part  10,  and 
then  on  upper  grate.  Serve  with  mushroom  sauce  or  with  potato 
balls.  The  shape  of  the  fillet  is  such  that  the  time  required  for  cook- 
ing is  the  same,  whether  it  weigh  2  or  6  pounds.  After  the  first  half 
hour  pour  a  cupful  of  water  in  the  pan.  Baste  freq>*ehtly.  Garnish 
with  jelly. 

Bib  Boast,  Stuffed. — Have  the  bones  removed  from  the  roast, 
flatten  the  meat  and  season  well.  Make  a  rich  turkey  dressing 
moistened  with  egg.  Tour  the  dressing  into  frying-pan,  with  a  little 
melted  butter,  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Spread  over  the  meat.  Roll, 
tie  and  bake.  A  delicious  dish.  Nice  cold.  Press  and  slice  fo« 
lunch  or  tea. 

Boston  Boast. — Buy  what  is  called  a  Boston  roast  or  chuck 
roast.  Cut  from  the  shoulder  or  the  round  steak.  Heat  a  frying-pan 
smoking  hot,  put  in  the  roast,  and  brown  or  sear  it  on  all  sides ;  this 
closes  the  pores  and  retains  the  juices.  When  browned,  season  with, 
salt  and  pepper ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  one  hour. 

Broiled  Steak. — Porter-house  and  sirloin  steaks  are  the  only  ones 
that  can  be  thoroughly  recommended  for  broiling,  and  to  broil  either 
of  them  properly  requires  a  double  broiler  and  a  good  clear  fire.  Cut 
the  steak  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick  and  trim  it  free  from  fab 


lU 


MEATS. 


If  it  is  a  porter-house,  remove  the  tough  end  and  convert  it  into  Ham< 
burg  steaks  for  luncheon  or  tea.  Heat  the  broiler  and  rub  lightly  with 
good  butter.  Put  the  steak  in  the  broiler  and  cook  over  a  clear  fire, 
turning  about  once  in  10  or  12  minutes.  Remove  the  steak  to  a  hot 
platter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  1  teaspoonful  of  butter 

over  each  side. 
Garnish  with 
water-cress 
and  serve  im- 
mediately. If 
the  fire  is  not 
Family  Meat  Saw.  clear,  sprinkle 

a  handful  of  charcoal  over  the  coals.  A  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter 
mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  and  sprinkled  over  the  broil- 
ing steak  will  give  a  fine  flavor.  Turn  the  steak  by  a  fork  putthrough 
the  fat  on  the  edge,  not  through  the  lean.  If  a  double  broiler  is 
used  there  is  no  necessity  for  a  fork. 

Beefsteak  with  Oyster  Sauce. — Fry  a  juicy  steak.  Pour  sufficient 
water  into  the  pan  for  gravy.  Thicken  ■with  browned  flour ;  add  butter 
if  necessary,  and  season.  Add  a  portion  of  oyster  liquor  to  the 
above  brown  gravy,  making  a  delicious  oyster  sauce.  Pour  this  over 
ihe  steak.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  then  serve  with  baked 
potatoes. 

Stewed  Steak  with  Oysters. — 2  pounds  of  rump-steak,  1  pint  of 
oysters,  3  tablespoonfuls  flour,  1  tablespoonful  lemon-juice,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  1  cupful  flour.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  the 
cup  of  water  over  the  oysters  and  drain  off  into  a  stew-pan^  Put  this 
liquor  on  to  heat.  When  it  boils  skini  and  set  back.  Put  the  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  steak.  Cook  10  minutes, 
take  up  and  stir  the  flour  intd  the  butter  remaining  in  the  pan.  Stir 
until  brown,  add  the  oyster  liquor,  and  boil  a  minute.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  back  the  steak,  cover  the  pan,  and  simmer  half 
an  hour,  or  until  the  steak  seems  tender.  Then  add  the  oysters  and 
lemon-juice.     Boil  1  minutfe.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Braised  Beefsteak. — Two  pounds  of  the  tough  part  of  the 
round,  1  onion,  1  clove,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  corn- 
starch. Dredge  the  meat  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Cut  the 
onion  Mo  thin  slices,  which  put  in  a  small  sauce-pan  or  baking-pan; 


MEATS.  175 

and  upon  them  lay  the  meat,  covering  closely.  Place  in  rather  cool 
oven  and  cook  one-half  hour ;  then  add  boiling  water  and  the  clove. 
Cover  and  return  to  oven.  Cook  very  slowly  for  2}4  hours,  basting 
with  gravy  in  the  pan  and  dredging  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  6  times 
while  cooking.  Take  up  the  meat,  mix  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold 
water  and  stir  into  the  gravy.  Cook  on  top  of  stove  4  minutes.' 
Strain  over  meat  and  serve. 

Spanish  Steak. — ^Take  round  or  flank  steak ;  put  in  dripping-pan ; 
slice  enough  onions  to  cover  and  partly  cook  them  in  a  little  water ; 
drain,  and  spread  onions  on  steak,  spread  one-half  can  tomatoes  on 
top  of  onions,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  sprinkle  over  all 
a  thin  layer  of  grated  cheese.     Put  in  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour.     ' 

Beefsteak  witk  Mushroom  Sauce. — Broil  a  steak,  put  on  a  hot 
platter,  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce  poured  over  it.  Sauce  : 
Put  1  pint  of  peeled  mushrooms  into  a  small  sauce-pan  with  a  few 
slices  of  fat  bacon,  or  a  lump  of  butter ;  brown  until  they  stick  to  the 
pan,  but  be  careful  not  to  scorch.  Stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Add 
a  pint  of  broth  or  soup  stock.  Let  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Add  a 
little  lemon-juice,  if  liked.     Pour  over  the  hot  steak  and  serve  at  once. 

Beefsteak  a  la  Maltre  d'Hotel. — Broil  a  sirloin  or  porterhouse 
steak.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  a  piece  of  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter 
melting  upon  it. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. — Fresh  butter  worked  up  with  chopped 
scalded  parsley,  lemon-j  uice,  and  pepper  and  Salt.  Serve  the  steak  with 
a  little  of  this  under  it  on  the  hot  platter,  and  a  piece  on  the  top  where 
it  will  melt.     Garnish  the  platter  with  potato  balls  or  puffs. 

Hamburg  Steak. — Have  1  pound  of  round,  or  flank  steak 
chopped  fine.  Chop  with  it  1  medium-sized  onion.  Pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  make  in  cakes  and  fry  in  a  hot  pan.  If  the  meat  is  juicy, 
no  fat  wilfbe  needed,  otherwise  use  a  little  suet  or  butter.  Fry  quickly 
and  serve;  pour  over  it  the  juice  of  the  meat.     Good  hot  or  cold. 

Beefsteak  Pie  (French  Style.)— Take  a  nice  piece  of  beefsteak, 
rump  or  sirloin,  cut  in  small  pieces,  slice  also  a  little  raw  ham;  put 
both  in  a  frying-pan,  with  some  butter  and  small  quantity  chopped 
onions ;  let  them  simmer  together  a  short  time  on  the  fire  or  in  the 
oven;  add  a  little  flour  and  enough  stock  to  make  sauce;  salt,  pep- 
per, chopped  parsley  and  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  as  seasoning; 
add  also  a  few  sliced  potatoes,  and  cook  together  for  about  20  min- 


176  MEATS. 

utes ;  put  this  into  a  pie-dish,  with  a  few  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
on  the  top,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  common  paste.  Bake  from 
15  to  20  minutes  in  a  well  heated  oven.  All  dark  meat  pies  can  be 
treated  precisely  the  same  way.  If  poultry,  leave  the  potatoes  out. 
Water  may  be  used  if  soup  stock  is  not  handy,  in  which  case  add 
bits  of  butter  or  finely  minced  suet. 

/  Beefsteak  Pudding. — Make  a  plain  crust,  or  a  suet  crust,  of 
flour,  finely  chopped  suet  and  water.  Line  a  pudding  dish  or  basin 
with  this'.  Cut  up  a  couple  pounds  of  rump  or  flank  steak  in  bits ; 
half  pound  of  beef  kidney  is  an  improvement,  cut  up  also.  Fill  the 
basin  in  layers  seasoning  each  layer  with  pepper,  salt,  and  if  liked, 
a  little  chopped  onion;  a  very  little- chopped  bacon  is  an  addition. 
Cover  with  a  layer  of  crust,  and  put  the  basin  in  a  steamer  and  steam 
1  or  2  hours  according  to  size.  When  served  open  the  t(ip  a  little 
and  put  in  small  lump  of  butter. , 

Stewed  Beef,  or  Other  Meats. — Stewed  meat  properly  prepared 
is  delicious.  To  begin  by  putting  the  meat  on  to  cook  in  cold  water 
and  thickening  it  afterward  will  never  make  a  good  stew.  It  should 
be  commenced  in  gravy  or  stock,  and  butter  or  suet  should  always 
be  used  for  this  rather  than  lard.  Melt  a  small  piece  of  butter  and 
gradually  sti;r  in  a  little  flour  until  it  is  thoroughly  combined;  now 
add  hot  water  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time  until  a  smooth,-  even 
consistency  is  reached.  Then  put  in  the  meat  to  be  stewed.  If  vege- 
tables are  to  be  used,  add  in  time  for  them  to  be  done  when  the  meat 
is  thoroughly  cooked,  afterward  add  the  condiments  and  flavoring 
as  required.  Keep  the  vessel  well  closed,  opening  the  lid  only  when 
absolutely  necessary  and  shake  the  stew  now  and  then,'  in  preference 
to  stirring  it  with  a  spoon. 

Another  form  of  stew  is  made  by  putting  butter  or  fat  in  a  sauce- 
pan, heating  it  thoroughly  and  putting  pieces  of  meat  in  to  brown 
the  outside  with  the  hot  fat.  Then  add  hot  water  and  thicken  slightly. 
The  stew  may  be  either  white  or  brown  according  to  the  way  the  fat 
Is  prepared.  For  white  stews  butter  only  should  be  used  and  melted 
only  just  enough  to  retain  a  light  color  before  adding  flour  and 
the  water.  For  brown  stews  butter  or  suet  or  drippings  maybe 
used  and  be  allowed  to  get  a  deep  color  before  adding  the  water. 

Stuffed  Flank. — The  flank  is  the  cheapest  part  of  a  bee^  hut  if  - 
neatly  trimmed,  spread  with  a  dressing  made  from  bread  crumtos,  • 


MEATS.  177 

bit  of  butter,  minced  onion,  or  sweet  herbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  enough 
hot  water  to  moisten,  rolled  up  tightly,  closely  corded  and  roasted, 
it  makes  a  palatable  dinner  dish.  There  may  be  served  with  it  a 
^  gravy,  made  by  adding  a  cup  of  hot, water  to  the  drippings  in  the 
pan.  When  it  boils,  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  which  has 
been  smoothed  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  to  it  salt,  pepper,  and  a  scant 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  thoroughly,"!©  secure  the  richness  that 
may  have  browned  to  the  pan,  cook  perhaps  5  minutes  and  serve. 

Boiled  Flank. — ^A  piece  of  the  flank  may  be  rolled  and  corded 
without  the  addition  of  the  dressing,  covered  with  boiling  water,  and 
cooked  until  tender.  When  cold  it  is  nice  to  slice  and  serve  for  tea. 
It  will  be  in  pink  and  white  rounds,  somewhat  resembling  a  jelly  roll. 

Cape  Cod  Stew. — Take  fresh  beef  flank  and  cut  in  pieces  4  or  5 
inches  square ;  put  on  to  cook  in  a  little  water  with  salt  and  1  good- 
sized  onion ;  be  careful  not  to  burn ;  cook  3  or  4  hours ;  then  cut  a 
turnip  in  slices  and  lay  on  top,  and  parsnips  whole  if  you  like  them; 
allow  about  1  hour  for  them ;  after  cooking  half  an  hour,  cut  potatoes 
once  and  put  in,  and  after  cooking  10  minutes  put  dumplings  on  top, 
made  of  1  pint  of  flour,  salt  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast-powder ;  mix 
soft  with  cold  water ;  cook  20  minutes ;  take  up  on  separate  dishes, 
and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour  or  corn-starch ;  serve  in  a 
gravy-boat.    This  is  first-class  and  inexpensive. 

Yirginia  Spiced  Beef. — ^Virginia  has  retained  many  of  the  old 
English  dishes  she  brought  with  her,  and  her  spiced  beef  is  the  lineal 
descendant  of  the  mighty  round  of  which  Sir  Walter  Scott  loves  to 
tell,  the  rule  given  being  one  that  is  guaranteed  to  have  been  the 
authority  in  one  family  since  the  days  of  burly  King  Harry  VIII. 

For  16  pounds  of  the  thick  flank  or  rump  of  beef  allow  half  a  pound 
of  brown  sugar,  1  ounce  of  saltpetre,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  allspice 
pounded,  and  1  pound  of  common  salt.  Rub  the  sugar  well  into  the 
beef,  and  let  it  lie  for  12  hours ;  then  rub  in  both  saltpetre  and  allspice, 
.and  let  it  stand  another  12  hours,  and  last,  rub  in  the  salt.  Leave  it 
fn  the  liquor  which  forms  for  a  fortnight,  turning  it  daily.  Soak  1 
hour  in  water,  dry  and  cover  with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  water 
fiiick  enough  to  hold  well.  Bake  in  a  steady  oven  for  5  hours.  At 
the  end  of  this  time  remove  the  paste  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold, 
though  such  a  round  is  usually  eaten  cold,  cut  in  very  thin  slices  the 
whole  face  of  the  round.    A  favorite  dish-with  hunters.    Still  another 

COOK— 12 


178  MEATS. 

method  is  to  sew  the  round  in  a  cloth,  put  in  boiling  water,  Md  boil 
for  4  hours ;  then  take  off  the  cloth,  and  put  the  round  under  a  heavy 
weight  until  cold.  Either  way  is  excellent,  and  the  round  will  keep 
easily  for  a  week. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. — Take  a  piece  of  the  rump  and  into  deep  incis- 
ions made  therein  put  little  thin  squares  of  pork  that  have  been  rolled 
in  a  mixed  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt  and  spices,  such  as  a  little  cloves 

and  grated  nutmeg.  Put  in  a  stewpan 
containing  sliced  onions,  carrots",  lemon,  a 
bay-leaf  and  pieces  of  pork,  lay  the  meat, 
putting  over  it  a  piece  of  bread  crust; 
Family  Cleaver.  over  all  pour  a  little  vinegar,  and  enough 

water  to  about  half  cover  the  meat.  Cook  until  the  meat  becomes 
tender,  being  careful  to  keep  the  dish  tightly  covered.  If  a  larding- 
needle  is  handy  use  that  to  draw  long  strips  of  pork  through  the  beef 
instead  of  the  thin  slices.    Very  nice  hot  or  cold. 

Curried  Beef  or  Mutton. — Cut  1  pound  of  tender  beef  into  pieces 
abou^  3  inches  by  2  inches  and  fry  them  for  a  few  minutes  Tvith  2 
sliced  onions  in  sufficient  butter.  Tut  the  meat  and  onions  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  wineglassful  of  vinegar  and  a  little  gravy  or  water 
with  a  dessertspoonful  of  curry-powder  and  stew  very  gently  for  1 
hour.  Place  it  in  a  deep  dish  with  an  edging  of  dry-boiled  rice  and 
serve.     Mashed  potatoes  can  be  used  instead  of  rice. 

Harlequin  of  Beef. — Cover  a  piece  of  fresh  beef  with  boiling 
water,  cook  until  nearly  done ;  let  cool  in  water  it  boils  in ;  make  a 
dressing  (as  suits  varied  tastes)  for  chicken  or  turkey;  slice  the  meat 
rather  thick  and  sprinkle  well  with  salt,  put  first  a  layer  of  dressing, 
then  beef,  in  a  lard  pail  until  about  two-thirds  full,  the  top  layer  to 
be  dressing;  steam  about  3  hours;  let  cool  in  pail,  then  turn  out  and 
slice  with  a  sharp  knife.  Butter  the  pail,  or  mould  before  putting  in 
meat,     A  pudding  dish,  or  tin  basin  can^ie  used. 

Boiled  Beef  Shank.— Purchase  a  shank ;  put  over  fire  in  cold 
water,  adding  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  Boil  till  tender  and  remove  from 
stock.  Serve  with  prepared  mustard.  Part  of  this  can  be  used  for 
dinner,  and  the  remainder  made  into  meat-pie,  pressed  beef,  hash,  etc 
Pickled  Pressed  Beef. — Cut  in  very  fine  pieces  the  meat  from  a 
boiled  shinbone,  season  with  spices  to  taste,  add  a  little  well-reduced 
stock  and  some  strong  vinegar;  pack  in  a  deep  dish  and  «lice  vbencold 


MEATS.  179 

Pressed  Beef. — Buy  a  fore-leg  of  beef  from  a  foot  up ;  it  will  weigh 
10  or  12  pounds ;  have  it  sawed,  wash  and  put  on  in  a  large  kettle  (I 
put  a  steamer  in  the  bottom  of  kettle  so  it  won't  burn).  Let  it  boil 
until  the  meat  comes  off  the  bones,  then  put  back  and  boil  until  very 
soft  and  the  water  has  boiled  down  to  about  1  quart.  Take  out  the 
meat  and  chop  and  add  seasoning  to  taste,  pepper,  salt  and  any  herbs 
such  as  parsley,  thyme,  etc.  Put  in  a  deep  dish  and  add  the  liquor 
in  which  it  was  boiled  after  skimming  off  the  fat ;  mix  thoroughly. 
Put  a  plat€  over  it  with  a  weight  on  it,  and  set  away  to  get  firm,  when 
it  will  slice  neatly.  Thiais  very  nice  with  baked  potatoes  or  French 
fried  potatoes. 

Fried  liver  and  Bacon. — ^Wash  the  liver  quickly  in  cold  water, 
drying  it  with  a  meat  cloth.  Take  each  slice,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  on  each,  and  dredge  it  with  a  little  flour.  Have  the  frying-pan 
hot  and  fry  lightly  the  slices  of  bacon  on  both  sides.  Take  them 
out  on  the  hot  platter  and  put  in  the  slices  of  liver  and  fry  them  in 
hot,gfavy,  turning  them  several  times.  When  well  done  put  the  liver 
in  the  center  of  the  platter  and  arrange  the  slices  of  bacon  around 
the  edge.  Add  a  little  Jjoiling  water  to  the  gravy;  thicken  it  with  a 
little  flour  stirred  up  in  some  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  up  well,  and  then 
pour  it  over  the  dish.  It  can  be  served  without  the  gravy,  and  many 
prefer  it  so.  It  is  sometimes  rolled  in  flour,  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dipped  in  egg,  and  fried  in  hot  fat  mixed  with  one-third 
butter.     In  this  case  omit  the  bacon. 

Stewed  Beef  Liver. — Prepare  as  above,  fry  with  salt  pork  until 
brown.  Cut  in  strips  together  with  the  pork.  Put  back  in  the  pan, 
together  with  a  cup  of  water,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.     Stew  10  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Boiled  Com  Beef. — Take  a  flank  piece  of  corn  beef,  make  a 
dressing  as  for  turkey.  Spread  thickly  over  the  beef;  roll  tightly 
and  tie.  Fold  in  a  thin  cloth.  Boil  until  tender.  Take  up,  drain, 
press  under  a  weight,  slice  cold.  A  flank  piece  can  be  rolled  and  tied 
and  boiled  tender  without  dressing.  Press  and  slice  cold.  Garnish 
with  curled  parsley  and  little  pickles. 

Presied  Com  Beef. — Take  cheap  pieces  of  corn  beef;  boil  until 
tender ;  while  boiling  throw  in  a  few  allspice ;  when  done  let  it  drain 
and  pick  to  pieces,  removing  a:ll  gristle  and  bone ;  put  in  deep  pan  a 
plate  which  will  cover  all  the  meat,  over  that  a  weight;  put  away  for 


180  MEATS. 

a  day  or  so ;  when  ready  for  use  remove  all  grease  from  the  top  and 
slip  a  knife  around  the  edge  and  turn  out ;  then  slice ;  very  nice  for 
tea  and  sandwiches.    This  recipe  tested  for  10  years  in  one  family. 

New  England  Boiled  Dinner. — Five  pounds  of  the  thibk  end 
of  the  rib  of  corned  beef,  put  into  cold  water,  and  keep  it  boiling 
until  noon  from  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning ;  put  beets  in  about  an 
hour  later;  at  ten  o'clock  cabbage  and  a  good-sized  piece  of  salt 
pork;  at  11,  the  carrots  and  parsnips,  and  at  11.15  the  potatoes. 

Next  day  a  vegetable  hash  can  be  made  of  the  remnants,  as  follows : 
Chop  finely  all  the  salt  pork  that  was  left,  twice  as  much  of  the  corned 
beef,  and  then  all  the  vegetables  with  it.  Season  to  taste ;  mix  with 
a  little  rich  milk:  heat  thoroughly  in  a  frying-pan, and  serve  with 
catsup  fcir  a  relish.  "White  beets  are  nicest  to  use  for  a  boiled  dinner. 
If  red  are  used,  be  careful  not  to  brea^the  skin.  Cut  the  cabbage  in 
quarters  or  eighths,  according  to  size.  It  is  an  improvement  to  boil  a 
red-pepper  pod  with  the  whole.  Peel  the  beets,  and  dish  up  the 
vegetables  and  meat  on^B^eparate  dishes  for  convenience  in  carving. 
Add  boiling  water  whenever  the  kettle  needs  replenishing. 

Meat  and  Potato  Pie. — A  good  English  dinner  for  six,  cheap 
and  palatable.  Take  2  pounds  of  pie  beef  and  cut  it  up  about  an  inch 
square,  and  let  it  stew  until  tender ;  then  slice^  medium-sized  onions ; 


f^S 


f  l'  \rm^ 


'Mi 


French  Cook's  Eiiife. 

peel  about  10  large  potatoes,  slice  them,  put  them  in  with  the  meat 
and  onions;  let  all  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  about  half  done;  then 
take  a  large  dish;  put  the  potatoes,  meat,  and  onions  all  together; 
make  a  crust  large  enough  to  cover  the  dish.  Take  1  }4  cups  of  flour, 
ft  tablespoonful  of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt ;  fub  in  the  flour,  and  add  water 
to  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  out  as  large  as  the  top  of  dish.  Before 
putting  it  on  the  dish,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  half  an  hour. 

Pickled  Beef  Tongue. — ^After  the  tongue  is  boiled  peel  it,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  1  cupful  water,  half  cupful  vinegar,  4  tablespoon^ 
fuls  of  brown  sugar,  and  cook  wntil  the  liquor  is  evaporated.    Then? 
slice  when  cold, 


MEATS.  181 

Deviled  Tongrae* — Chop  boiled  beef  tongue  very  fine;  season 
well  with  black  and  red  pepper  and  mustard,  add  a  little  vinegar  to 
just  moisten;  press  solid  and  slice  thin.  This  makes  very  nice  sand- 
wiches also. 

Braised  Beef  Tongue. — ^Wash  a  4  pound  fresh  tongue,  simmer 
slowly  for  2  hours,  skin  and  trim  off  some  of  roots;  tie  the  tip  to  the 
thicker  part ;  brown  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  2  of  flour,  pour  on 
slowly  1  quart  of  stock  or  water,  add  half  a  carrot,  half  a  turnip,  1 
potato,  1  onion,  all  cut  fine,  sprig  of  parsley,  3  bay  leaves,  1  piece  of 
celery  or  celery  salt,  1  tablespoon  Worcester  sauce,  1  cup  of  tomatoes; 
put  tongue  in  a  kettle  that  can  be  covered  air-tight,  pour  the  above 
all  over  it,  cover  and  bake  2  hours,  strain  sauce,  which  should  be 
about  half  gone,  around  and  over  the  tongue;  nice  hot  and  fine  cold; 
calves'  liver  is  also  nice  done  this  way. 

Spiced  Beef  Tongue. — Rub  into  each  tongue  a  mixture  made  of 
half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  piece  of  saltpetre  size  of  a  pea,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves.  Put  it  in  a  brine  made  of  three- 
quarters  pound  of  salt  in  2  quarts  of  water  and  keep  covet'ed.  Pickle 
2  weeks,  then  wash  and  dry  with  a  cloth,  roll  out  a  thin  paste  made 
of  flour  and  water,  smear  it  all  over  the  tongue,  place  in  a  pan  to  bake 
slowly.  Baste  thoroughly-with  lard  and  hot  water.  When  done 
scrape  off  the  paste  and  skim.     Delicious  sliced  cold.     Good  hot. 

Meat  Jelly. — Cut  some  dressed  meat  (beef  or  mutton)  into  slices 
smaller  than  for  hash ;  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper;  dissolve 
half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  good,  clear  stock ;  arrange  the 
slices  of  meat  in  a  mould  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs ;  fill  up  the 
mould  with  the  stock  and  put  it  into  the  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Let 
it  stand  till  quite  cold,  turn  it  out  and  garnish  with  watercress. 

Beef  Heart,  Stuffed. — ^Wash  the  heart  carefully  and  open  it 
enough  to  remove  the  ventricles.  Then  boil  it  3  hours^  leaving  only 
enough  at  the  last  for  gravy.  .  When  the  heart  is  tender  cut  out  a 
portion  of  the  middle  and  fill  the  cavity  with  the  following  dressing: 
Dressing. — Bread-crumbs  moistened,  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt ; 
season  with  sage  or  minced  onion.  If  it  is  moistened  with  a  beaten 
egg.  Jt  will  stay  in  shape  better  when  slicing.  Put  the  heart  in  a  pan 
in  the  oven  with  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Chop  the  piece  of  heart  fine,  stir  into 
the  liquor  in  the  pan,  and  thicken  slightly  with  browned  flour.  Serve 


182  MEATS. 

the  gravy  separately.  This  dish  is  also  very  nice  served  cold  without 
gravy.  Slice  thin  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  or  parsley.  Any 
kind  of  a  turkey^  dressing  will  answer  for  the  heart 

Dried  Beef  Frizzled  in  Cream. — Chip  the  beef  thin  as  paper  • 
have  very  hot  in  frying-pan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Stir 
the  beef  around  in  it  for  2  or  3  minutes?  dust  in  a  little  flour,  add  half 
cupful  rich  cream,  boil  and  serve  in  a  covered  dish. 

Gravied  Dried  Beef.— Put  a  tablespoonfi^l  of  butter  in  the  hot 
frying-pan;  when  melted,  add  one-half  pound  shaved  beef.  Let  it 
fry  till  the  butter  begins  to  brown,  then  add  1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 
Thicken  with  1  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  moistened  with  milk  and  1 
egg  beaten  into  the  batter.     This  is  a  dainty  breakfast  dish. 

Dried  Beef  with  Eggs.— Put  chipped  beef  in  a  frying-pan  and 
nearly  fill  with  hot  water.  Set  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  up,  and  pour 
off.  Put  butter  the  size  of  a  hen-egg  to  each  half  pound  of  meat 
Season  with  pepper  and  let  it  fry  a  few  moments  over  a  hot  fire,  then 
break  3  or  more  eggs  into  it  Stir  altogether  until  the  eggs  are 
done.  Turn  on  a  dish  and  serve.  The  meat  can  be  fried  as  above, 
dredged  with  flour,  and  the  eggs  left  out.  Then  fry  the  eggs  sepa- 
rately and  serve  with  it  on  a  platter,  same  as  with  ham. 

Chipped  Beef. — Pick  fine  one-half  pound  of  dried  beef,  warm  in  a 
spider  with  a  lump  of  butter  (do  not  let  it  cook).  Beat  together  1 
egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Pour  in  the 
spider  and  let  it  boil  up  once. 

Tripe. 

Tripe,  to  Buy. — Choose  the  coarse,  honey-combed  tripe  when 
purchasing  it  in  market  It  is  always  cooked  and  usually  pickled 
when  purchased.  If  not  pickled,  throw  it  in  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  it,  and  add  a  little  salt.  After  it  has  lain  in  the  vinegar  for  3 
days,  take  it  up  and  drain  it,  and  it  is  ready  for  us^e. 

Fried  Tripe. — To  cook  it  in  this  way  cut  it  in  square  pieces  about 
2  inches  in  size  or  larger;  season  each  piece  with  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, dip  it  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  -fry  it 
brown  in  hot  fat.  It  is  very  nice  served  with  maitre^d'hotel  butter. 
Two  or  3  slices  of  fat  salt  poric  may  be  fried  in  pan  before  tripe  is  put  in. 

Broiled  Tripe. — Boil  it  till  tender.  When  cold  cut  it  in  pieces 
4  or  5  inches  square,  flour  it  well,  grease  the  gridiron  and  broil  over  a 


MEATS.  183 

clear  fire.  Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  but- 
ter. The  tripe  referred  to  here  is  a  kind  sold  cleaned,  but  not  boiled. 
Give  it  the  necessary  six  hours'  boiling  the  day  before.  A  cream 
sauce  is  nice  to  serve  with  either  the  broiled  or  fried  tripe.  The  honey- 
comb tripe  is  chosen  for  these  recipes. 

Tripe  Fried  in  Batter. — Fry  pickled  tripe  in  an  egg  batter- 
Soak  the  tripe  over  night  in  cold  water ;  in  the  morning  put  it  in  a 
kettle  of  fresh  cold  water  and  boil  it  20  minutes ;  remove  and  dry  on 
a  cloth ;  meantime  have  a  quantity  of  fat  pork  well  fried  out,  and  bat- 
ter made  with  1  egg,  one-half  cupful  of  milk  or  water,  a  pinch  of  salt^ 
and  flour  to  make  a  drop  batter ;  cut  the  tripe  in  slices  to  serve-  and 
cover  with  batter ;  when  the  batter  is  well  cooked  the  tripe  will  be 
teady  to  serve.    About  3  minutes  will  cook  it. 

Pickled  Tripe. — Cut  in  inch  square  pieces,  and  pour  over  it 
highly-spiced  boiling  vinegar,  pepper  corns,  mace,  a  little  salt.  This 
will  ke^p  some  time.     It  is  a  nice  side  dish. 

Boast -^ripe. — ^Take  3  pounds  of  tripe,  make  a  dressing  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  slice  of  onion  cut  fine,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  season  with  salt. 
Wet  only  enough  to  hold  together.  Lay  the  dressing  smoothly  over 
the  tripe,  and  roll  it  lengthwise.  "  Roast  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting 
with  hot  water  and  melted  butter.      , 

Tripe  a  la  JTewbiirgr, — Cut  the  tripe  into  pieces  the  size  of  a 
small  oyster.  Make  a  sauce  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  of  butter, 
2  teacupfuls  of  milk.  When  it  thickens  add  the  tripe ;  let  it  boil  up 
once.  Season  with  a  little  pinch  of  ground  mace,  salt,  pepper  and  a 
little  stewed  parsley.  Boil  5  minutes.  Add  half  a  wineglassful  of 
sherry.    Serve  on  toast. 

Tripe  in  Cream.— Make  a  white  sauce  with  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  1  of  butter,  and  a  scant  pint  of  milk.  When  it  thickens  add  the 
tripe,  cut  into  inch  squares.    Boil  5  minutes  and  serve  hot  on  toast. 

Lyonnaise  Tripe. — Boil  the  tripe  in  salted  water,  unless,  as  is 
often  the  case,  it  has  been  boiled  before  it  was  sold.  Cut  it  in  long, 
narrow  strips.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  pan,  and  when  it 
browns  add  a  small  onion  cut  into  bits.  When  this  has  browned  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  the  tripe,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and 
pepper  to  iaste.     If  the  pickled  tripe  is  used,  omit  the  vinegar.    - 

Fricasseed  Tri^e. — Cut  a  pound  of  tripe  in  narrow  strips.     Put  a 
small  cupful  of  water  with  it,  add  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 


184  MEATS. 

dfedge  in  a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour ;  season  with  a  pinch  of  parsley 
or  strlall  onion,  and  let  it  simmer  gently,  not  boil,  for  half  an  hour. 

Kidneys. 

Eadneys,  Baked. — Boil  four^  hours  in  three  changes  of  water ; 
chop  fine;  add  1  teaspoonful  mustard,  1  of  corn  starch;  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  to  taste,  in  the  gravy.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Nice  dish  for 
supper  or  breakfast.    The  kidneys  can  be  boiled  the  day  before. 

Kidney  Stew.^ — Take  a  beef  kidney,  and  pour  boiling  water  over 
it  to  extract  the  blood ;  then  take  from  the  water  and  remove  all 
pieces  of  suet;  cut  in  fine  pieces,  put  in  stew-pan,  add  an  onion 
minced  very  fine ;  cook  slowly  for  two  hours,  covering  the  kidneys 
with  water ;  season  to  taste.  Then  blend  1  tablespoonful.  of  flour  in 
a  little  cold  water;  stir  in,  and.  let  boil  up  once  just  before  removing 
from  the  stove.    Add  a  small  lump  of  butter. 

Kidney  Stew  on  Toast. — First  wash  the  kidneys^  in  salted 
water,  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel;  fry  3  or  4  slices  of  bacon  or  salt 
pork ;  then  fry  2  or  3  small  onions  in  the  fat  until  a  nice  brown ;  add  2 
cups  of  hot  water,  sprinkle  the  kidneys  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
and  roll  in  flour.  If  left  whole,  it  will  take  half  or  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  to  cook.  Cut  them  in  two  or  three  pieces.  When  cooked 
enough  remove  from  the  pari,  and  if  not  qijite  enough  liquid  to  make 
a  gravy,  add  a  little  more  water ;  use  1  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  to 
a  pint  of  liquid  for  thickening  gravy ';  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce 
improves  it  greatly.  ,  Pour  over  slices  of  toast  on  a  platter. 

Veal. 

Veal,  while  being  one  of  the  most  palatable  meats  in  the  market, 
is  the  foundation  of  more  delicate  and  delicious  side  dishes  than  any 
other.  Calves'  liver,  brains,  sweetbreads  are  better  than  from  any  other 
animal,  and  can  be  cooked  in  the  daintiest  fashions.  The  meat  of  the 
leg,  which  in  full-grown  beef  is  the  comparatively  tough  round,  is  the 
fillet  of  veal — one  of  the  nicest  parts.  For  breading  veal  cutlets,  etc., 
see  directions  in  departmeint  on  "  Croquettes  and  Fritters." 

Veal  Stuffing'. — Soak  bread  in  tepid  water  to  make  when  squeezed 
dry  1 J^  cupfuls ;  put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
hot  stir  in  a  small  onion  minced  fine,  which  color  slightly;  then  add 
the  bread,  with  3  tablespoons  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little-grated  nut- 


MEATS.  185 

meg  and  half  cup  of  white  sauce,  or  stock,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  it  leave  the  sides ;  then  stir  in  2  eggs. 

Force  Meat. — Any  cold  meat,  such  as  veal,  chicken  or  ham,  may 
be  used,  chopping  it  very  fine.  For  each  cup  of  meat  take  the  yolk 
of  1  egg,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  the  eggs  beaten 
slightly.  Butter  in  the  proportion  of  1  tablespoonful  melted  may  be 
added  if  desired  and  minced  onion.  This  can  be  used  for  dressing 
or  made  in  balls  and  fried.  Finely  chopped  raw  veal  can  be  used 
instead  of  cold  meat. 

Chestnut  Stuffing. — Boil  the  chestnuts  and  shell  them;  then 
blanch  them  and  boil  till  soft ;  mash  them  fine  and  mix  with  a  little 
milk,  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  Stuff  the  breast.  A  loin  of 
veal  stuffed  with  chestnuts  is  a  toothsome  dish. 

Boast  Breast  of  Veal. — ^This  is  a  cheap  cut,  and  has  comparj . 
tively  little  bone,  while  at  the  same  time  the  meat  is  peculiarly  swed  t 
and  full  of  succulence,  so  that  it  is  not  strange  that  many  delicious 
ways  have  been  invented  for  its  preparation.  Have  the  bones  removed 
at  the  market  and  sent  home  with  the  roast  to  use  for  soup.  Flatten 
out  the  breast  and  make  a  dressing  as  for  turkey,  or  a  force-meat  and 
spread  it  over  the  broad  piece  of  meat,  roll  up,  tie,  and  put  the  roll  in 
a  pan.  Rub  with  butter;  put  water  or  soup  stock  in  the  pan  and 
roast  slowly,  basting  often.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  put  a  piece  of  thick 
paper  over  the  meat  for  a  time,  or  cover  it  with  sliced  onions  or  car- 
rots. Make  a  pan  gravy  with  a  flour  thickening.  A  delicious  roast. 
Slice  it  through  meat  and  dressing.  Good  cold  also.  Apple  sauce 
is  nice  served  with  it.  A  great  addition  to  the  gravy  is  to  add  half  a 
cup  of  cooked  rice  to  it,  and  a  little  tomato  sauce  (the  tomato  sauce 
that  is  prepared  to  serve  with  meats). 

Stewed  Breast  of  Veal. — ^The  breast  should  be  boned,  trimmed 
free  from  fat  and  cut  in  small  squares  of  about  two  inches.  These 
squares  should  be  simmered  in  stock  slowly  until  they  are  so  thor- 
oughly tender  that  they  may  be  easily  pierced  in  all  parts  with  a  lard-, 
ing  needle.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  teaspoonful  each  of  flour  and  but- 
ter mixed,  taste  it  to  see  that  it  is  well  seasoned,  and  let  it  simmer  again 
for  10  minutes.  Replace  the  veal  in  it  and  let  it  warm  up.  When  thor- 
oughly heated,  dish  the  pieces  in  a  circle  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them. 


186  MEATS. 

Boast  Loin  of  Veal. — Salt,  pepper,  and  rub  with  butter.  Put  a 
cup  of  water  in  the  pan  adding  a  lump  of  butter.  Baste  frequently. 
Roast  about  25  minutes  to  the  pound.  At  the  last  dredge  with  flour ; 
let  brown  slightly.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  pan  gray,  add  hot  water, 
and  thicken  slightly  with  browned  flour ;  let  boil  up,  and  send  to  the 
table  separately.  Have  the  kidney  roasted  with  the  loin,  if-^ossible, 
and  serve  a  little  of  it  with  each  helping  of  meat. 

Baked  Fillet  of  Veal. — ^The  fillet  is  the  under  part  of  the  loin. 
Have  it  boned  at  the  market,  and  fill  the  cavity  with  any  preferred 
dressing,  or  a  force-meat  made  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  finely  chopped 
salt  pork,  sage,  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  in  bottom  of  baking-pan  a  few 
slices  of  salt  pork.  Skewer  the  veal  and  lay  in  tihe  pan  and  pour 
over  it  one  cup  of  boiling  water ;  baste  frequently  while  baking.  It  is 
well  to  sew  Up  the  opening  after  stuffing  with  dressing,  A  nice  addi- 
tion is  to  cut  gashes  over  the  top  of  the  veal  and  fill  in  with  the  dress- 
ing. Any  dressing  that  is  left  can  be  poured  over  the  top  of  the 
meat.  Four  hours  will  be  necessary  to  cook  this  roast.  A  dash  of 
catsup  is  an  addition  to  the  gravy.  Currant  jelly  may  be  served 
with  it. 

Veal  Pot-pie. — Divide  fiie  meat  in  small  pieces.  Breast  or  some 
other  cheap  cut  can  be  used.    Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

Braised  Veal.^Take  a  piece  of  the  shpulder  weighing  about  5 
pounds.  Remove  the  bone  and  tie  up  in  good  shape.  Put  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg,  together  with  a  few  shavings  of  onions, 
into  a  kettle  and  let  it  get  hot.  Salt  and  pepper  the  veal  and  put  it 
in  the  kettle.  Cover  and  put  over  a  medium  fire,  turning  occasionally 
until  the  meat  is  brown  on  both  sides.  Then  set  the  kettle  back 
where  it  can  simmer  slowly  for  about  2^  hours.  If  the  juices  of  the 
meat,  together  with  the  butter,  do  not  make'  sufficient  gravy  to  cook 
it  in,  add  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  from  time  to  time. 

Pot-Pie  Crust. ^-Three  cups  flour,  .2  heaping  teaspoons  baking- 
powder,  half  teaspoonful  salt ;  sift  flour  and  baking-powder  together, 
mix  with  either  sweet  milk  or  water;  mix  stiff)  roll  out  thick  and  put 
over  pot-pie  as  above.  Or  mix  stiff"  and  drop  with  spoon  in  kettle  1 
spoonful  at  a  time,  cook  20  minutes.  Cover  with  tight  lid  and  do 
"not  take  it  off  until  done. 

Veal  Stew. — Boil  2j4  pounds  of  breast  of  veal  cut  in  small  pieces 
1  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover,  add  1  dozen  potatoes  and  cook  half 


MEATS.  187 

an  hour.  Before  taking  off  the  stove  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  flour 
enough  to  thicken.  Season  to  taste.  Carrots  sliced  thinly  are  an 
addition.  The  milk  may  b&  omitted  if  not  cared  for,  and  boiling, 
water  used  instead;  a  lump  of  butter  is  an  addition.  The  ends  of  the 
ribs,  the  neck  and  the  knuckle  may  all  be  used  in  stews.  Skim  care- 
fully when  the  meat  first  begins  to  boil,  and  before  serving  take  out 
all  the  small  bones  that  will  have  loosened  from  boiling.  This  stew 
or  fricasseed  veal,  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  is  nicer  if  the  meat  is  first 
browned  slightly  in  the  kettle  with  butter  and  a  little  flour  before  the 
water  is  added. 

Veal  Cutlets  (Breaded). — ^Take  inch-thick  slices  of  veal,  cut  from 
the  loin,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  butter  of  1  cupful  of 
milk,  1  beaten  egg  and  flour  enough  to  thicken,  add  a  pinch  of  bak- 
ing-powder. Fry  the  veal  a  delicate  brown  on  each  side.  Dip  in  the 
batter,  put  back  into  the  fat  or  blotter  and  fry  brown  once  more.  If 
there  is  any  batter  left,  drop  it  in  spoonfuls  into  the  fat.  Fry  brown 
on  each  side,  and  arrange  around  the  edge  of  the  platter  as  a  garnish, 
serving  one  with  each  cutlet.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  browned  flour,  ^ 
first  adding  sufficient  hot  water. 

Another  way  is  to  dip  the  half-cooked  cutlet  first  in  beaten  egg 
and  then  roll  it  in  powdered  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  slowly  until  brown 
on  both  sides.  Many  cooks  omit  this  first  frying,  but  it  will  be  found 
to  prevent  the  tendency  to  rawness.     Garnish  with  lemon. 

Mock  Duck. — Three  good-sized  veal  cutlets  trimmed  into  neat 
shape.  Have  ready  a  stuffing  made  of  a  large  cupful  of  bread  crumbs 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  pork,  one  siiftall  onion  chopped  fine, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  and  tie  up  the  cut- 
lets, after  having  spread  them  with  the  stuffing.  Put  them  into' a 
baking-pan,  with  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  bake  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  covered  closely.  When  nearly  done  take  iialf  a  cup  of 
gravy,  half  a  cup  of  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  let  them 
come  to  a  boil.  Put  the  steaks  on  a  hot  dish,  removing  the  thread 
carefully  so  as  not  to  injure  the  shape  of  the  roll.  Pour  on  the  gravy 
and  cover  them,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  catsup,  a  squeeze  of  lemon, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  the  last  thing  before  taking  up. 

Cutlets  with  Mushpooms. — Take  some  cutlets,  each  With  a  bone 
to  it,  trim  them  neatly  in  the  same  manner  as  mutton  cutlets.  Take 
a  piece  of  rather  lean  bacon;  cut  it  in  slices  about  the  eighth  of  an 


188  MEATS. 

inch  thick  and  trim  each  slice  to  the  size  of  the  cutlets.  Sprinkle  the 
veal  with  pepper  and  salt  and  fry  each  cutlet  on  both  sides,  in  butter, 
till  done.  Fry  the  bacon  separately ;  arrange  the  cutlets  and  bacon 
alternately  in  a  dish ;  sprinkle  them  freely  with  minced  parsley  and 
thyme,  and  in  the  middle  place  the  mushrooms,  cooked  as  follows : 
Put  in  a  saucepan  the  trimmings  of  veal,  a  carrot,  a  little  minced 
onion,  or  a  couple  of  shallots,  parsley  and  sweet  herbs,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  common  stock,  and  then  boil 
for  an  hour ;  then  strain  the  liquor,  thicken  with  1  ounce  of  butter, 
rolled  in  a  little  flour — add  a  pint  of  well-washed  and  picked  mush- 
rooms, and  simmer  for  15  minutes. 

Veal  Head  Cheese. — One  pound  of  stewing  veal  and  leg  bone ; 
boil  thoroughly;  strain  through  a  colander,  saving  the  soup.  Chop 
the  meat  very  fine  and  return  it  to  the  soup.-  Cook  until  thick,  sea- 
son to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  into  a  mould,  set  on  ice  until 
jellied  and  serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

Calf's  Feet  Stewed. — Thoroughly  clean  the  calfs  feet,  cover 
them  with  boiling  water,  put  in  two  onions,  two  carrots,  and  two 
heads  of  celery ;  let  them  gently  simmer  4  hours.  Mix  a  heaped 
tablespoonful  of  flour  smoothly  with  a  little  cold  water,  pour  it  into 
the  saucepan  with  the  calfs  feet,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  let  it 
boil  5r  minutes,  turn  it  upon  a  hot  deep  dish,  with  the  vegetables  round 
it,  and  some  finely  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over. 

Calfs  Feet  Fried. — Boil  until  tender,  remove  the  large  bones, 
split,  dredge  with  flour,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  powdered  pars- 
ley, and  fry  brown  in  butter  or  dripping.  If  a  gravy  is  wished,  pour 
a,  little  water  into  the  frying-pan,  thicken  with  flour,  and  season. 
Squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  juice.  . 

Calf's  Head  Boiled. — Clean  the  -head,  soak  it  in  salt  and  water  to 
blanch  it.  The  brains  and  tongue  can  be  saved  to  cook.  (If  the 
head  is  already  prepared  when  bought,  the  brains  and  tongue  will 
not  be  with  it.)  Boil  tender,  skim  the  water  carefully.  Salt  to 
taste,  simmer  it  gently  until  the  bones  slip  out  easily.  Take  up  and 
drain  very  dry,  dot  with  butter,  sprinkle  over  with  salt,  pepper  and 
finely  powered  sweet  herbs, .  dredge  with  flour  or  powdered  bread 
'  crumbs.  Set  in  a  hot  oven,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  it  to 
give  a  fine  flavor.  Or  use  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled 
for  beistine. 


MEATS.  189 

Roast  brown,  put  on  a  hot  platter.  Take  the  necessary  amount 
of  the  liquor  for  gravy,  pour  in  the  roasting  pan,  add  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  let  it  boil  up  with  a  few  thin  slices 
of  lemon,  i.  e.,  if  the  lemon  flavor  is  liked.  Serve  the  gravy  separately. 
If  the  brains  are  with  the  head,  some  cooks  tie  them  in  a  cloth  and 
boil  half  an  hour  with  the  head.  Chop  fine  and  add  to  the  gravy— • 
omitting  the  lemon.  Keep  the  liquor  in  which  the  head  is  boiled,  and 
make  a  soup  of  it  next.   Season  plain  or  make  into  a  mock-turtle  soup. 

Calf's  Head  Gbeese. — Boil  a  calf s  head  until  the  meat  leaves  the 
bones,  pick  it  free  from  every  particle  of  bone,  season  with  pepper^ 
and  salt  (one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper),  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  any  sweet  herbs  that  may  be  liked  (parsley,  sweet 
marjoram,  thyme,  sage).  Pack  closely  in  a  dish,  put  a  small  plate 
over  it,  with  a  weight  upon  it.  When  cold  and  firm,  slice  for  tea  or 
sandwiches.     Mustard  is  nice  with  it. 

Calf  s  Brains,  Boiled. — Soak  the  brains  in  salt  water,  then  re- 
move the  skin  and  wash  free  from  blood.  Put  2  sets  of  brains  in  a 
quart  of  cold  water ;  add  to  this  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  cupful  of 
vinegar,  and  6  whole  peppers.  Boil  tender,  which  will  take  about  20 
minutes.    Serve  with  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter. 

Calf  s  Idver  and  Bacon. — Wash  and  dry  the  liver,  cut  in  slices 
one-third  of  an  inch  and  flour  well.  Frj'  the  bacon  crisp,  then  lay  in 
the  liver  and  brown  nicely ;  take  up  in  center  of  platter  with  bacon 
around.  Serve  a  slice  of  bacon  with  each  slice  of  liver.  A  brown 
gravy  can  be  made  if  wished  by  pouring  off  the  unnecessary,  adding 
a  little  hot  water  in  the  pan,  and  thickening  with  a  little  flour,  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Season  to  taste;  let  boil  up  and 
serve  in  a  gravy  boat.     Not  as  delicate  a  dish  as  when  liver  is  broiled. 

Ham  and  liver. — Fry  thin  slices  of  ham  and  in  the  ham  fat  cook 
the  liver,  first  rolling  it  in  flour.    Serve  on  same  dish. 

Fricasseed  Cali's  liver. — Two  pounds  of  liver  cut  into  strips  half 
an  inch  thick  and  finger  length.  Dredge  them  with  flour  and  fry  to 
a  light  brown,  turning  often.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  with  the  hot 
fat  and  a  little  flour  and  water.  Add  to  it  a  finely  minced  onion  and 
a  little  parsley.  Put  in  the  liver,  add  half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Let  it  boil  up  and  serve,  pouring  the  gravy  round  the  liver.  If  soup 
stock  is  convenient  use  instead  of  made  gravy. 


190  MEATS. 

Calf  s  Liiver,  Plain. — Slice  liver  and  let  it  fry  in  butter  in  a  shallow 
frying-pan.  When  done  place  it  in  a  warm  dish,  sprinkle  with  pepper, 
salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  pour  over  them  the  butter  in  the  pan. 

Mock  Terrapin. — One  pound  of  sliced  calf's  liver^,  salt,  fry  brown. 
Hash  it — not  too  fine,  flour  thickly  and  add  2  ihard*brafcd  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  1  teacupful  of  boiling  water.  Let  boil  10  minutes  and 
serve  with  slices  of  toast. . 

Sweetbreads,  To  Prepare. — When  properly  prepared  sweetbreads 
form  many  of  the  most  delicate  dishes  that  can  be  placed  upon  the 
table.  In  whatever  style  sweetbreads  are  to  be  served  they  should 
first  be  soaked  in  salt  and  water,  and  then  plunged  in  boiling  water 
to  whiten  and  harden  them.  In  boiling  sweetbreads  a  porcelain  kettle 
should  be  used,  and  in  cutting  them^a  silver  knife,  as  they  conWn  an 
acid  that  acts  upon  iron,  tin  or  steel,  and  destroys  much  of  the  deli- 
cate flavor.  Add  a  tablespoonful  ^of  vinegar  to  water  in  which  the 
sweetbreads  are  parboiled,  or  the  same  amount  of  lemon  juice.  Seven 
minutes'  boiling  is  enough  to  parboiLtkem. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads. — Parboil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads,  pack  into 
small  pieces  and  chop  fine  with  half  a  dozen  mushrooms.  Put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  and  set  on  the  stove  to  melt ; 
when  hot  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  pour  over  half 
a  pint  of  cream,  and  stir  until  boiling ;  add  the  sweetbreads  and  mush- 
rooms, set  the  saucepan  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  5  minutes ; 
season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.     Serve  in  little  paper  cases. 

Sweetbreads  in  Jelly. — Parboil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads.     Take  up 

and  press  between  plates  until  firm  and  cold.     Cut  them  into  cutlets. 

Have  some  aspic  jelly  melted  slightly ;  dip  each  cutlet  in  it.     Chop 

some  of  the  jelly  into  pieces,  arrange  in  a  circle,  lay  the  cutlets  on 

this,  fill  the  center  with  chopped  celery,  pour  mayonnaise  around  the 

dish,  and  garnish  with  little  squares  of  aspic.    Serve  very  cold.    See 

directions  for  Aspic. 

Mutton. 

Boast  Mutton.^The  pieces  best  for  roasting  are  the  hindquarter 
of  the  sheep,  called  the.  loin  and  the  leg,  also  chime  or  saddle,  which 
is  the  two  loins  together.  Trim  carefully,  rub  butter  over  it,  dredge 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  very  little,  water  in  the  baking-pan,  to 
baste. with,  and  afterward  with  its  own  gravy.    Turn  the  bony  sids 


MEATS.  191 

toward  the  fire  first  and  roast.  If  it  browns  too  fest  cover  with  a 
sheet  of  white  paper.  Allow  15  minutes  -to  each  pound  of  meat. 
Skim  the  gravy  well  and  thicken  with  browned  flour.  Serve  with 
melted  currant  jelly,  or  with  mint  sauce. 

Boast  Mutton  with  Browned  Potatoes. — Wipe  the  mutton  care- 
fully, rub  it  with  pepper  and  coarse  salt,  sprinkle  with  summer  savory. 
Put  the  meat  on  a  rack,  fill  the  space  under  it  with  boiling  water. 
Slice  an  onion  thinly  and  lay  over  the  meat  and  put  in  the  oven,  with 
a  quick  fire.  If  no  rack  is  handy,  set  the  meat  up  on  3  or  4  muiBn 
rings.  Cover  the  pan.  About  30  minutes  before  dinner  pare  pota- 
toes and  put  around  the  meat,  turning  them  so  that  the  meat  and 
potatoes  alike  will  be  beautifully  browned.  By  roasting  in  this  way 
there  will  be  about  a  quart  of  the  best  stock  in  the  space  under  the 
rack.  Of  this  take  enough  for  gravy  and  put  away^the  rest  for  next 
day's  soup.  Make  a  gravy  as  follows :  Skim  off  part  of  the  fat,  stir 
in  a  small  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  a  grated  or  finely  minced  onion.  Wet  a  teaspoonful 
of  browned  flour  smoothly  with  cold  water,  stir  in,  let  boil  up,  strain 
and  send  to  the  table. 

Stuffed  Leg  of  Mutton,  Boasted. — Remove  the  bone  from  a 
small  leg  of  mutton  without  spoiling  the  skin.  Trim  off  most  of  the 
fat.  Fill  the  space  from  which  the  bone  was  removed  with  a  dress- 
ing made  same  as  for  fowls,  adding  to  it  a  finely  minced  onion.  Sew 
the  leg  up  underneath  to  Iceep  the  dressing  in  place.  If  any  of  the 
dressing  remains,  cut  gashes  in  the  fleshy  part  of  the  leg  and  fill. 
Bind  up  with  tapes  of  strips  of  muslin.  Put  in  a  roasting  pan,  turn 
in  a  cupful  of  hot  water  and  put  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  basting  it 
occasionally.  ^       -^ 

When  partly  cooked  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  thor» 
oughly  cooked,  put  the  leg  on  a  hot  platter,  skim  the  fat  from  the  top 
of  the  gravy,  add  a  cup  of  hot  water,  and  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour,  rubbed  smooth  in  cold  water.  Let  boil  up  and  add  a  spoon- 
ful of  tomato  catsup.  Serve  separately.  Send  currant  jelly  and 
mashed  turnips  to  the  table  with  it. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  with  Oysters. — ^Take  a  shoulder  of  mutton, 
remove  the  blade  and  other  Jjones  neatly,  and  fill  the  spaces  with 
small  raw  oysters  (about  half  a  pint),  season  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, rub  some  salt  on  the  outside  of  the  meat,  tie  securely  in  a  cloth 


192  MEATS. 

that  has  previously  been  wrung  out  of  cold  water  and  well  floured  j 
then  put  it  into  boiling  water  (salted),  and  boil  gently  from  2  to  2^ 
hours,  according  to  nuniber  of  pounds.  Serve  with  oystef  sauce, 
made  as  follows :  Half  pint  of  small  oysters,  1  ^  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, 2  heaping  teaspoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Wash  the  oysters  in  water  enougfiTb  make  3  gills  with  the  oyster 
liquor,  work  the  butter  and  flour  together  to  make  a  smooth  paste,' 
let  the  water  and  oyster  juifce  come  to  a  boil,  skim  and  pour  it  gradu- 
ally on  the  flour  ajid  butter,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  add  the  oysters 
and  seasoning ;  boil  up  once  and  serve  with  boiled  beets  and  squash, 
baked  potatoes,  graham  bread  and  some  kind  of  fruit  jelly.  An  ap- 
petizing meaL 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton  with  Caper  Sauce. — Wipe  a  leg  of  mut- 
ton with  a  damp  towel,  put  it  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  let  simmer  gently  15  minutes  for  every  pound,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  When  the  mutton  is  done,  lay  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  pars- 
ley and  serve  with  caper  sauce. 

Caper  Sauce. — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour 
to  a  smooth  paste  in  a'  bowl,  set  in  a  pan  of  boihng  water ;  thin  the 
mixture  with  a  large  cupful  of  water,  stir  until  smooth,  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  df  capers,  take  from  the  fire. 
Or  it  may  be' stuffed,  and  wrapped  in  a  floured  cloth  to  keep  in  the 
dressing ;  remove  the  towel  carefully  and  serve  as  above. 

Mutton  Pie. — ^Take  some  chops  from  a  well-hung  ncck'of  mut- 
ton, remove  all  superfluous  fat,  and  season  highly  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Chop  together  2  apples  and  1  onion.  Put  a  layer  of  cutlets 
into  a  pie-dish,  scatter  over  a  layer  of  apple  and  onion,  then  another 
layer  of  meat,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full.  Cover  with  a  good  plain 
pastry,  and  bake  for  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  steady  oven. 

Mutton  and  Tomato  Pie. — Butter  a  deep  dis^,  put  in  a  layer  of 
sliced  tomatoes,  then  a  layer  of  mutton  cut  in  rather  small  pieces, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  bits  of  butter.  Continue  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the  crumbs 
for  the  top.    Bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Mutton  and  Potato  Pie. — Get  a  mutton  stew,  cut  into  convenient 
pieces  and  boil  until  tender.  Pare  some  potatoes  and  cut  into  rather 
small  pieces,  put  in  with  the  meat  and  cook  until  done.    Then  place 


MEATS.  193 

•11  in  a  lai^  pan  or  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  crust  made  as  for 
baking  powder  biscuit ;  bake. 

Mutton  Steak  with  Bice. — Boil  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in 
2  quarts  of  water  and  a  coffeespoonful  of  salt;  boil  20  minutes,  drain. 
Cut  a  thick  steak  from  the  thickest  part  of  an  under-leg  of  mutton ; 
broil  by  turning  often  until  done  rare.  Put  in  the  middle  of  a  hot 
platter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Surround  it  with  rice.  A  little 
orange  or  lemon  juice  can  be  squeezed  over  the  dish. 

Chops  In  Paper. — Chops,  birds  and  dry  fish  are  most  delicate 
and  delicious  broiled  in  paper.  This  should  be  spread  with  olive  oil ; 
then  the  article  to  be  broiled,  salted  and  peppered,  should  be  snugly 
tucked  in  the  case,  turning  the  edges  over  several  times,  and  pinching 
together  those,  close  to  the  meat.  The  paper  will  char  a  long  time 
before  igniting,  and  the  contents  will  be  basted  in  their  own  juices. 
The  time  required  for  broiling  in  paper  is  usually  about  8  minutes. 
When  the  paper  is  well  browned,  the  bird  or  chop  is  done  to  a  juicy, 
delicate  and  digestive  turn.  Serve  in  its  envelope,  which  conserves 
the  heat  and  juices  to  the  moment  of  eating. 

Boast  liamb. — The  fore  and  hind  quarters  are  good  for  roasting, 
dredge  with  flour,  sprinkle  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter  over  the 
meat,  baste  frequency  with  butter  and  water.  It  must  be  well  done ; 
bake  20  minutes  to  the  pound.  It  can  be  stuffed  also  like  fillet  of  veal. 
Mint  sauce  is  the  conventional  dressing,  but  a  cream  sauce  is  also  nice. 

Cream  Sauce. — Pour  off  the  fat  from  the  pan,  add  a  cup  of  milk 
and  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  season,  add  a  little  butter  if  necessary. 
A  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley  will  add  to  the  flavor.  Green  peas 
or  mashed  turnips  should  be  served  with  lamb. 

Grilled  Lamb. — Take  a  shoulder  of  lamb.  Score  in  squares  an 
inch  each  way.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter,  then  with  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and 
powdered  sweet  herbs.  Roast  a  delicate  brown,  and  make  a  gravy  in 
the  pan,  adding  to  it  1  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  and  thicken- 
ing with  browned  flour. 

Braised  Lamb.— Take  of  lamb  or  young  mutton  3  pounds; 
roll  in  salted  flour,  place  in  a  skillet  with  hot  fat  and  then  cook  till 
brown  on  both  sides.  Pour  on  a  pint  of  hot  water,  cover  tightly, 
cook  rapidly  twenty  minutes,  take  upon  a  hot  plate,  spread  with 
catsup  and  serve  immediately. 

COOK— 13 


194 


MEATS. 


Liamb  and  Green  Peas, — Three  pounds  of  lamb>  a  can  of  French 

peas,  a  medium-sized  carrot,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  medium-sized 
onion.  Remove  all  the  fat  possible  from  the  lamb  and  dust  it  over 
with  flour ;  put  the  butter  over  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan ;  when  hot  add 
the  onion,  which  must  be  sliced  fine ;  when  the  onion  is  brown  re- 
move from  the  butter ;  put  in  the  lamb  and  let  it  browri  all  over ; 
then  cover  with  hot  water;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  set  it  at  the 


back  of  the  stove,  where  it  will  just  simmer.  Slice  the  carrot  thin, 
and  cut  the  slices  in  quarters.  After  the  lamb  has  cooked  one  hour 
and  a  half  add  the  carrot  and  cook  another  hour.  Just  before  serv- 
ing take  up  lamb  and  put  it  on  a  hot  platter.  Thicken  the  gravy  and 
add  the  peas.  When  well  heated  through  pour  over  the  lamb  and 
serve  very  hot.  If  the  water  evaporates  in  cooking  add  a  little  more 
before  thickening  the  gravy.  If  green  peas  are  used,  they  must  be 
put  in  and  cooked  20  minutes  before  the  gravy  is  thickened ;  can  be 
put  in  before  the  lamb  is  taken  up. 

Liamb  Pie. — Make  a  crust  as  for  beefsteak  pie ;  line  a  deep  dish 
around  the  sides ;  take  2  pounds  of  lamb,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  one 
onion  cut  fine;  take  10  apples,  pare  and  slice.  Put -a  layer  of  apples, 
then  meat,  then  onion,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sugar,  then  put  on  top 
crust.and  bake.    Nice  with  mashed  potatoes ;  half  cup  of  water  in  pie. 

Love  in  Disguise. — ^Take  2  nice,  fresh  lambs'  hearts  and  stuff 
tliem  with  bread-crumbs,  sage  and  onions,  and  bake  for  about  10 
minutes  in  a  sharp  oven;  then  take  some  mashed  potatoes  and  cover 
the  hearts  all  over  and  then  put  into  the  oven  until  brown;  make 
some  gravy  and  serve  hot. 


MEATS.  198 

Imitation  Barbecue  Mutton. — Roast  the  mutton  as  usual,  but 
one  hour  before  ready  to  serve  prepare  the  following  mixture :  One' 
third  cup  each  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  tomato  catsup  and  vinegar, 
saltspoon  of  pepper,  one  round  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Stick  the 
meat  all  over  witlv  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  and  fill  the  places  with  the 
mixture  just  prepared.  If  any  is  left,  pour  over  the  roast  wheii  it 
comes  to  the  table. 
>  Pork. 

Boast  Leg  of  Pork. — Choose  a  small  leg  of  fine,  young  pork^cut 
a  slit  in  the  knuckle  with  a  sharp  knife  and  fill  the  space  with  sage 
and  onions  chopped,  moistened  bread-crunibs,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt ;  when  half  done  score  the  skin  in  slices,  but  do  not  cut  deeper 
than  the  outer  rind.  Apple  sauce  and  potatoes  should  be  served  with 
it.  Roast  25  minutes  to  the  pound,  since  pork  must  be  thoroughly 
cooked.  If  a  loin  roast,  make  deep  gashes  between  the  ribs  and  fill 
with  dressing.  In  the  leg  m&ke  deep  incisions  in  the  meat  at  the 
large  end  and  fill  with  the  dressing.  Put  1  cupful  of  water  in  the 
pan  and  baste  with  this.  Pour  off  all  the  fat  after  the  meat  is  taken 
up,  turn  in  sufficient  hot  water,  thicken  with  browned  flour  and  add 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  If  apple  sauce  is  not  served,  send  spiced  goose- 
berries, or  currants,  or  currant  jelly  in  with  it.  Parsnips  are  an  ac- 
companying vegetable.  Roast  pork  is  very  much  improved  by 
sprinkling  a  little  sage  over  the  top.  Sweet  potatoes  should  be 
boiled  until  nearly  done,  then  skinned  and  put  in  the  pan  with  the 
pork  and  roasted  until  brown. 

Sbonlder  of  Pork,  French  Fashion. — ^Take  a  7-pound  fresh 
shoulder  and  have  the  butcher  score  it ;  then  put  it  in  the  steamer 
and  let  it  steam  three  hours,  or  until  the  rind  will  come  off  easily 
with  a  fork;  then  take  off  the  rind,  salt  and  flour  it,  and  put  it  in  the 
oven  and  bake  1  hour,  so  it  will  be  browned  on  all  .sides.  Then  make 
the  gravy  in  the  pan  as  above.  Apple  sauce  should  be  served  with  it. 

Boast  Pig. — The  pig  should  weigh,  before  dressing,  10  or  12 
pounds.  Boil  the  liver  and  heart  20  minutes  in  salted  water,  and 
chop  finely.  Cut  a  loaf  of  bread  in  slices,  dip  in  cold  water,  chop 
and  add  to  the  minced  meat;  pour  over  all  one-quarter  cup  of 
melted  butter  and  two  well-beaten  eggs ;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
sage  and  onions,  if  liked.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  fill  the  pig  and  sew  it 
together.    Bend  the  forelegs  under  at  the  knees,  and  the  hind  legs 


196    ^  .  MEATS. 

forward  at  the  gambrel  joint;  put  a  corn-coU  in  the  mouth  to  keep  it 
open,  and  wrap  with  cord  to  keep  the  legs  in  position.  Put  in  the 
dripping-pah  with  tin  dishes  on  each  side  to  keep  it  on  the  knees; 
add  a  little  water  and  bake  from  two  to  three  hours.  Baste  frequently, 
using  melted  butter  at  first,  and  be  careful  that  it  does  not  burn. 
Before  sending  to  the  table  put  in  the  mouth  a  lemon  or  a  small,  red 
apple,  and  serve  with  baked  sour  apples.  A  potato  dressing,  with 
the  addition  of  sage,  is  sometimes^  used.  Skim  and  strain  the  gravy ; 
bojl  up;  thicken  with  browned  flour;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  serve 
in  a  boat.  In  carving,  cut  off  the  head,  split  down  the  back,  take  off 
the  hams  and  shoulders,  separate  the  ribs. 

Boast  liotn  of  Pork  witb  Apple  StuflSngr. — First  trim  and  cut 
out  all  the  bones,  the  skin  scored  in  little  squares  and  the  bones  re- 
placed with  the  tart  apples,  pared  and  quartered,  well  reasoned  with 
salt,  pepper  and  sage,  and  tied  around  to  secure  the  apples.  The 
loin  is  then  roasted  brown,  with  no  water,  basted  only  with  its  own 
drippings;  as  it  bi;owns  dust  with  flour,  and  then  baste  in  turn; 
keep  warm  while  a  gravy  is  made  by  stirring  cider  into  the  pan, 
where  enough  flour  has  fallen  to  make  a  thick  sauce,  which,  if  well 
boiled  and  properly  seasoned,  makes  a  delicious  gravy.  Serve  with  it 
baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Boiled  teg  of  Pork. — Choose  a  small  compact  leg  of  pork,  rub 
well  with  salt,  and  let  it  remain  in  pickle  a  week  or  ten  days,  turning 
and  >:ubbing  every  day.  An  hour  before  preparing  put  in  cold  water  for 
an  hour.  If  the  leg  is  purchased  already  salted,  find  out  how- long  it 
has  been  in  pickle  and  soiak  accordingly.  Put  the  leg  over  to  boil 
in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  skim  care- 
fully. Simmer  gently  until  tender.  If  cooked  too  fast,  the  knuckle 
will  fall  to  pieces  before  the  middle  of  the  leg  is  done.  Carrots, 
turnips  or  parsnips,  may  be  boiled  with  the  pork,  and  some  of  them 
should  be  laid  around  the  platter  as  a  garnish.  If  the  leg  weighs 
8-pounds,  it  should  cook  3  hours  after  it  begins  to  boil. 

Cold  Boast  Pork. — ^The  remains  of  cold  roast  pork,  always  a 
difficult  meat  to  re-cook,  can  be  utilized  by  cutting  the  meat  in  dice, 
allowing  a  little  of  the  fat  to  remain  with  it ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  add  a  dessertspoonful  of  parsley  cut  fine,  a  pinch  of  sage,  another 
of  summer  savory,  a  sprinkle  of  mace  and  nutmeg,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  minced  lemon  peel.    Mix  well,  put  in  a  baking-dish,  moisten  wiA 


MEATS.  J  97 

any  gravy  that  may  have  been  left,  and  bake  about  an  hour.  Serve 
hot  or  cold. 

Boiled  Ham. — Soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  24  hours  if  it  be 
very  salt.  Put  over  to  boil  in  cold  water,  let  cook  slowly  until  a  fork 
will  penetrate  easily,  draw  off  the  skin.  Sprinkle  fine  bread  crumbs 
mixed  with  brown  sugar,  over  the  top.  Bake  1  hour.  If  the  ham 
is  to  be  glazed,  omit  the  bread  crumbs  in  roasting.  Use  the  glace 
before  given  in  this  department,  or,  this :  Brush  over  with  the  yolk  of 
a  well-beaten  egg.  Dredge  thickly  with  finely  powdered  cracker- 
crumbs,  and  cover  with  sweet  cream,  and  put  in  the  oven  long  enough 
to  brown.  Granish  with  curled  parsley.  If  it  is  to  be  simply  boiled, 
let  it  become  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  has  been  cooked.  In  this 
way  the  juices  of  the  meat  are  retained,  and  the  dryness  so  common 
in  cold  ham  is  prevented.  Cut  writing  paper  in  a  fringe  and  twist 
around  the  bone  before  serving.  A  15-pound  ham  will  require  at 
least  five  hours  to  cook. 

Ham  can  be  soaked  in  a  boilerful  of  sour  milk  for  24,  hours 
before  cooking.  Set  the  boiler  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  thus  keep- 
ing the  milk  warm  to  draw  out  the  salt  and  to  make  the  meat  tender. 
Then  boil  as  above.  Scrub  the  outside  of  ttie  ham  with  a  stiff  brush 
and  then  rinse  thoroughly  before  putting  to  soak.  A  boiled  ham  can 
be  served  hot  or  cold,  and  the  remnants  can  be  used  in  many  ways. 

Sugared  Ham.-r-Sugared  ham  is  something  worth  having  in  the 
house.  Cut  in  thin  slices ;  it  may  be  served  in  an  emergency  to  good 
advantage.  For  Sunday-night  suppers  it  is  also  excellent.  The 
recipe  here  given  is  a  Cuban  one  and  is  declared  delicious.  Three 
days  are  necessary  in  carry  out  the  directions.  The  ham  is  given  a 
plain  boiling  on  the  first  day,  on  the  second  it  is  immersed  in  cider, 
and  on  the  third  day  it  receives  a  coating  of  sugar  icing. 

Deviled  Ham. — Cut  a  thick  slice  of  ham  from  the  leanest  part. 
Dredge  it  with  dry  curry  powder  or  black  pepper.  Broil  over  a  clear 
fire,  turning  frequently,  and  taking  care  not  to  cook  too  much.  Serve 
with  the/following  sauce  poured  over  the  ham  :  One  teaspoonful  of 
black  pepper  mixed  with  2  of  mustard  flour.  Melt  1  ounce  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  and  work  in  the  mustard.  Dilute  wjth  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  meat  stock  or  water,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  gherkin  or 
capers,  and  a  few  drops  of  chilli  vinegar.  Make  this  boiling  hot,  add 
more  vinegar  if  not  acid  enough.     Pour  the  sauce  on  to  a  very  hdt 


198  MEATS. 

meat  dish.  Lay  the  ■•broil  on  it.  None  of  the  sauce  must  touch  thfe 
upper  surface  of  the  broiled  meat.  Garnish  with  Jlsmon  rings  and 
serve. 

Ham  Cutlets  on  Toast.^-Chop  cold  boiled  ham  fine,  add  to  it 
an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  a  dash  of  pepper,  tablespoon&l 
of  chopped  parsley,  and  stir  in  two  whole  eggs,  well  beaten.  Form 
this  mixture  into  little  cutlets  the  shape  of  a  tiny  ham ;  dip  them  in 
egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Dish  each 
one  on  a  piece  of  toast.  A  cream  gravy  can  be  made  in  the  pan  and 
served  with  it  if  wished.  Turn  off  most  of  the  fat  in  the  frying-pan, 
add  a  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  cold  milk,  let  boil,  season  and  send  in  with  the  cutlets,"  or 
else  turn  around,  riot  over,  them  In  the  dish. 

^  Spare>-rib  Pot  Pie. — Cut  the  spare-ribs  once  across,  then  in 
strips  3  or  4  inch6s  wide,  stew  until  tender  in  enough  hot  water  to 
cover.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Empty  the  kettle  and  refill  as 
follows :  A  layer  of  spare-ribs,  a  layfer  of  peeled  (raw)  potatoes,  cut" 
in  quarters,  if  large,  some  bits  of  butter,  some  small  squares  of  baking 
powder  biscuit,  rolled  thin,  seasoh  again,  and  so  on  until  the  kettle  is 
two-thirds  full,  leaving  squares  of  crust  for  the  top  layer.  Then  add 
the  liquor  in  which  the  spare-ribs  were  boiled,  and  hot  w^ter  if 
needed.  Cover  closely^  and  boil  }^  to  f{  hour,  adding  hot  water 
towards  the  last  to  keep  from  burning.  Have  enough  water  on  at 
first  so  that  for  half  an  hour  the  cover  will  not  have  to  be  removed, 
so  it  will  not  fall.  If,  after  taking  up,  there  is  not  enough  gravy,  add 
flour  and  butter  and  hot  water  rubbed  together ;  season  to  taste,  and 
serve.  To  warm  up,  set  in  a  dripping-pan  in  oven,  add  lumps  of 
butter,  with  gravy  and  hot  water. 

Spare-rib  and  Sauerkraut. — Two  pounds  spare-ribs,  those  with 
the  small  ribs ;  wash  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  put  1  quart  of  sajierkraut  on  top  of  the  spare-ribs,  cover  and 
cook  lj4  hours;  then  remove  the  spare-ribs  and  lay  them  on  a  hot 
dish,  taste  the  kraut,  if  not  salt  enough  add  more  salt,  and  if  not  sour 
enough  add  1  tablespoonful  of  white  vinegar ;  then  grate  1  peeled  po- 
tato, add  it  to  the  kraut,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes,  then  serve. 

Pork  Pie. — ^^Stew  pieces  of  lean  fresh  pork  till  nearly  done  and 
season  with  salt — ^back-bone  pieces  are  best;  dredge  the  bottom  of  a 
deep  pan  thickly  with  flour ;  put  in  the  meat  and  season  with  black 


MEATS.  199 

^pper ;  pour  over  the  gravy,  dredge  with  floor,  and  add  the  crust, 
which  should  be  made  like  baking  powder  biscuit,  rolled,  cut  open- 
ing for  escape  of  steam,  and  put  over  the  top  of  the  pie ;  bake  till  the 
crust  is  done.  A  little  powdered  sage  may  be  added,  if  liked.  A 
tablespoon  of  catsup  is  nice.  . 

Pork  and  Apple  Pie. — Peel,  quarter  and  core  some  fine,  juicy 
baking  apples,  make  a  nice  paste  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a 
deep  dish.  PGt  in  the  apples,  strewing  among  them  sugar  enough  to 
sweeten  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cut  some  nice  pork  in  small  pieces,  re- 
moving most  of  the  fat,  and  all  of  th©  bone,  cover  the  apples  with  a 
layer  of  meat,  and  pour  in  a  teacup  of  sweet  cider,  heap  up  the  pie  in 
the  center,  put  on  a  top  crust  with  a  slit  in  the  center.  Bake  it  Well 
in  a  hot  oven.  The  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  a  little  yinegar  in  a  cup  of 
water,  may  be  used  instead  of  the  cider. 

Baked  Salt  Pork. — Boil  4  or  5  pounds  of  pork  having  "  streaks 
of  lean"  in  it,  in  plenty  of  water  for  lyi  hours.  Take  it  out,  remove 
the  skin,  cut  gashes  across  the  top,  sprinkle  over  a  little  powdered 
sage,  pepper  and  rolled  crackers.  Place  in  the  oven  until  browned. 
To  be  eaten  cold  or  hot. 

Salt  Pork  Stew. — -A  piece  of  pork  not  too  fat  is  required  for  this. 
Cover  with'  cold  water  and  simrner  for  2  hours  or  more  according  to 
the  size  of  the  piece.  Add  sliced  onions  and  potatoes.  Boil  half  an 
hour  and  add  dumplings.  Cover  closely  and  do  not  let  stop  boiling 
for  15  minutes,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Salt  Pork  in  Batter. — Take  off  the  rind ;  fry  as  you  like  it. 
Make  a  batter  the  same  as  you  would  for  anything.  Dip  the  pork  in 
the  batter  and  fry  again.     Don't  pour  the  fat  on  with  the  pork.  , 

Corned  Spare-ribs. — Very  nice.  Get  them  at  the  market  ready 
corned,  or  put  in  pickle  with  other  meats  at  home.  Boil  in  plenty  of 
water,  and  serve  plain,  or  use  them  for  a  boiled  dinner  instead  of 
corned  beef  or  ham.     Nice  cold  also. 

Creamed  Bacon. — Bake  in  the  oven  slices  of  bacl)n  till  they  are 
brown  and  crisp ;  put  them  on  a  hot  platter ;  add  to  the  fat  in  the  pan 
a  teaspoonful  or  more  of  flour ;  stir  till  smooth,  add  gradually  a  tea- 
tupful  and  a  half  of  milk  and  cook  2  minutes.  The  bacon  can  be 
fried  instead  of  baking. 

Bacon  and  Sweet  Potatoes. — Fry  thin  rashers  of  bacon  to  a 
•trisp  brown,  fry  thick  slices  of  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  the  drip- 


200  MEATS. 

ping  and  heap  !n  a  hot  dish  with  the  bacon  around  the  outside.  An 
appetizing  breakfast  dish. 

Liver  and  Bacon  Balls. — One  cup  of  boiled  calf's  liver,  ^  cup 
bacon,  mince  very  fine,  add  salt  and  pepper,  form  into  balls  or  small 
cakes,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat ;  serve  gar- 
nished with  parsley. 

Bacon  and  Beans. — Soak  the  beans  over  night  and  cook  exactly 
as  pork  and  beans.  Remember,  however,  to  leave  the  bacon  in  a 
single  square  piece.  When  it  has  boiled  perfectly  tender,  which  will 
be  befofe  the  beans,  take  it  out.  Then  skim  and  set  aside  until  the 
beans  are  very  tender.  Place  the  bacon  in  the  center  of-  a  baking 
dish,  drain  the  beans  and  put  them  around  the  bacon ;  fill  to  the  top 
of  the  beans  with  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Bake  1^  or  2 
hours,  until  the  liquid  is  nearly  all  absorbed.    Then  serve  hot. 

Potted  Ham. — ^To  2  pounds  of  lean  ham  allow  one-half  pound  of 
fat,  1  teaspoonful  of  mace,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one-half  -teaspoonful 
of  cayenne  pepper.  A  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  may  be  added. 
Mince  the  fat  and  lean  together  and  pound  as  smooth  as  possible,  sea- 
soning it.  Have  the  mace  ground  or  "pounded  fine.  A  mortar  js 
best  to  pound  the  meat ;  a  stone  jar  and  a  .potato  masher  can  be 
substituted.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  baking  dish  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
Press  it  down  firmly  in  a  small  stone"7ar,  and  fill  the  jar  up  with 
melted  lard.  Paste ,  paper  over  the  jar ;  it  will  keep  a  long  time  in 
winter.  It  is  nice  to  serve  cold  for  lunch,  sliced,  or  for  company 
sandwiches.  Scrape  the  lard  off  and  slice.  If  not  all  used,  melt  the 
lard  and  pour  back. 

Pig's  Feet  Soused. — Scald  the  feet  and  scrape  them  clean  if  the 
covering  of  the  toes  will  not  come  off  without;  singe  them  in  hot 
embers  until  they  are  loose,  then  take  them  off.  Some  persons  put 
the  feet  into  weak  lime  waiter  to  whiten  them.  Having  scraped  them 
clean  and  white,  wash  them  and  put  them  into  a  pot  of  warm  but  not 
boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt.  Let  them  boil  gently  till,  by  turning 
a  fork  in  the  flesh,  it  will  easily  break  and  the  bones  are  all  loosened. 
Take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  they  are  done  take  them  out  of 
^the  water  and  lay  them  in  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  adding  to 
it  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Add 
6  pepper  corns,  .a  few  allspice,  4  cloves  and  a  little  mace.  Put  them 
in  ajar  and  cover  closely.    Soused  feet  may  be  eaten  cold  from  the 


MEATS.  201 

vinegar,  split  in  two  from  top  to  toe,  or  they  may  be  split  in  two, 
dipped  in  flour  and  fried  in  hot  I^rd,  or  they  may  be  broiled  and  but- 
tered.    But  in  the  latter  case  they  should  be  nicely  browned. 

Head  Cheese. — One  small  pig's  head,  or  half  a  large  head,  4  pig's 
feet ;  have  cleaned  and  trimmed.  This  can  be  done  at  the  market. 
The  feet  make  ^e  cheese  firmer,  and  less  fat.  Put  in  a  kettle  with 
water  enough  to  cover ;  boil  slowly  until  all  the  bones  will  slip  out. 
Then  Set  away;  when  cold  skim  all  the  fat  oflfthe  top.  Then  set  the 
kettle  back  on  the  stove  until  it  warms  the  meat.  Set  off,  skim  out 
the  meat  into  a  chopping  bowl,  work  through  the  hands  to  remove 
all  the  small  bones.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  powdered 
thyme,  summer  savoty,  allspice  and  cinnamon.  Chop  fine,  and  add 
some  of  the  liquor  -m  which  the  meat  was  boiled.  Pack  closely  in 
deep  dishes  or  pint  bowls.  In  a  cold  place  it  will  keep  months.  Slice 
thinly.    A  weight  will  press  it  firmer. 

Sausage. — Seven  and  one-half  pounds  of  lean  pork,  2)4  pounds 
of  fat  pork,  4  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sage,  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of 
summer  savory,  4  level  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  2  level  tablespoonfuls 
of  black  pepper.  Any  one  that  prefers  can  use  one-half  beef  instead 
of  all  pork.  Chop  the  meat  fine  in  a  chopper,  removing  all  stringy 
parts ;  add  the  spices,  stir  and  run  all  through  the  chopper  again  to 
mix  thoroughly.  A  little  flour  mixed  with  the  meat  keeps  the  fat 
from  running  out  so  freely  when  cooking  the  sausage.  Stuff  the 
sausage  meat  into  prepared  intestines  or  long  narrow  muslin  bags. 
Dip  the  bags  in  melted  lard  and. hang  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Leave 
some  in  bulk  to  fry  in  little  cakes,  browning  on  each  side. 

To  Keep  Sausage. — ^To  put  away  sausage  for  a  relish  next  sum- 
mer, it  should  be  fresh,  nicely  seasoned  and  rather  fat.  Stuff  some 
in  skins,  fry,  and  coil  around  in  sweet,  clean  earthen  crocks,  pour 
over  them  the  boiling  fat  that  comes  out  of  them,  and  if  that  does 
not  entirely  cover,  add  boiling  lard.  When  cold  tie  paper  or  muslin 
over  the  top.  Instead  of  stuffing,  the  sausage  may  be  made  in  cakes, 
fried  and  put  up  in  the  same  way,  but  it  is  apt  to  absorb  more  grease. 
To  use,  melt  the  fat  from  them,  lift  carefully  with  a  fork  into  a  drip- 
|ping-pan,  and  set  in^the  oven  to  crisp  the  skins. 
'  Bologna  Sausage. — ^Two  pounds  of  lean  pork,  2  pounds  of  lean 
veal,  2  pounds  of  lean  beef,  2  pounds  fat  salt  pork,  9  teaspoonfuls 
powdered  sage,  or  summer,  savory^  2  tablesjpoonfuls  each  of  parsley 


202^  MEATS. 

and  thyme,  4  teaspoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  cayenne 
pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Chop  or  grind  the  meat  very  fine, 
sf^son,  mixing  it  well  by  running  through  the  grinder  again.  Have 
v«ell-cleaned  beef  intestines,  fill,  prick,  tie,  and  boil  gently  for  1  hour. 
Take  out  the  sausages  and  lay  theni  to  dry  in  the  sun  upon  clean, 
sweet  straw  or  hay.  Rub  the  outside  of  the  skins  with  melted  butter 
or  oil,  and  put  them  in  a  cool,  diy  cellar.  Or  they  may  be  smoked 
the  Same  as  hams;  slice  for  lunch  or  supper.  If  they  are  not  smoked 
and  yet  are  to  be  kept  more  than  a  week,  rub  ginger  or  pepper  on  the 
outside,  wash  off  before  using;  or  pack  the  chopped  meat  in  muslin 
cases  9  or  10  inches^  long  and  4  wide;  tie  securely  and  leave  in  a  ham 
pickle  4  or  5  days ;  smoke  for  a  week.  Hang  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 
Brine  or  Pickle  for  Corned  Beef,  Ham,  Sboulder,  or  Mutton. 
— For  50  pounds  of  meat  take  2  gallons  of  water,  4  pounds  of  salt, 
2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  ounce  of  saltpetre.  Let  boil  10  minutes, 
skim  well,  take  from  the  fire  and  set  aside  until  cold.  Put  the  pieces 
of  beef  in  a  tub  or  small  meat-cask  and  cover  with  brine,  weight  the 
meat  under,  cover  the  top,  and  set  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Thus  pre- 
pared the  meat  will  keep  a  year.  A  piece  of  beef  remaining  in  this 
a  few  days  makes  delicious  corn-beef.  If  it  remains  in  several  weeks, 
it  should  be  soaked  over  night  before  using.  A  round  of  beef  put  in 
this  pickle  4  weeks  and  then  dried  slowly  in  a  cool,  dark  place  makes 
good  dried  beef.  A  handful  of  mace  and  cloves  thrown  into  the  brine 
will  improve  the  flavor  of  the  meat.  If  desired  to  give  the  meat  a  red 
color,  four  times  as  much  saltpetre  must  be  used. 

"'  PicMing  Hams. — ^A  handy  recipe  for  curing  hams  is  this  :  Take 
4  quarts  of  salt,  4  ounces  of  saltpetre,  4  pounds  of  brown  sugar  dis- 
solved in  water.  Pack  a  hundredweight  of  hams  closely  together 
and  pour  this  pickle  over  them,  let  thenat  remain  10  days  and'then 
smoke.  Cover  the  hams  when  smoked  with  canvas,  dip  in  white- 
wash several  times,  allowing  each  coating  to  dry  before  another  is 
added.  Never  let  the  fire  for  smoking  meat  start  into  a  blaze,  as  heat 
will  start  the  fat  of  meat  and  injure  it.  Before  warm  weather  take  the 
meat  down,  rub  with  pepper  and  molasses;  hang  up  again  and  smoke. 
Repeat  this  several  times  and  insects  will  not  disturb  the  meat.  Never 
pickle  pork  until  2  days  after  killing ;  sprinkle  it  lightly  with  saltpetre 
in  the  meantime  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Three  months  pickles  it  to 
perfections  but  it  can  be  smoked  sooner.    Cover  the  bottom  of  the 


MEATS.  203 

barrel  with  coarse  salt,  put  in  the  hams  first  with  the  outside  down ; 
sprinkle  them  on  the  flesh  side  with  fine  salt.  Then  the  shoulders, 
and  next  the  side  pieces.    Then  tiirn  on  the  pickle. 

Brine,  to  Benew. — If  the  brine  becomes  sour,  or  the  pork  tainted, 
turn  off  brine ;  boil,  skim  well,  pour  back  upon  meat  boiling  hot, 

Dried  Beef. — For  every  20  pounds  of  beef  take  1  pint  of  salt,  1 
teaspooQful  of  saltpeter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar.     Mix 
well  and  divide  into  about  3  equal  paf  ts,  and  rub  well  into  the  beef  on  / 
3  successive  days.     Keep  it  in  a  crock  or  kettle  and  turn  each  day  for 
a  week  in  the  liquor  it  will  make,  then  hang  it  up  to  dry. 

Corn  Beef,  to  Flavor. — In 'boiling  salt  beef  an  excellent  flavor 
may  be  imparted  to  it  by  the  following  methods :  Mix  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vinegar  with  the  same  quantity  of  Worcester  sauce  and  of  stout 
(or  beer) ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
brown  sugar,  a  few  cloves  and  allspice.  Stir  well  together  and  let  it 
remain  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  This  mixture  should  be  added 
to  the  water  in  which  the  beef  is  boiling,  just  before  it  is  done.  The 
beef  must  then  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  water  until  cold. 

What  to  Serve  with  Meats. 

Roast  beef — grated  hbrse-radish,  Worcestershire  sauce,  pickles ; 
roast  pork — apple  sauce  or  cranberry  sauce;  roast  veal — tomatoes  or 
mushroom  sauce;  roast  turkey  or  chiqken — cranberry  sauce;  roast 
mutton — currant  jelly ;  roast  lamb — mint  sauce ;  roast  goose — apple 
sauce,  cranberry  sauce  or  currant  jelly;  corned  beef—mustard; 
boiled  mutton — caper  sauce ;  boiled  chicken— bread  sauce ;  boiled 
turkey — oyster  sauce ;  venison  or  wild  ducks^ — black  currant  jelly,  or 
currant  jelly  warmed  or  melted ;  broiled  fresh  mackerel-^stewed 
gooseberries ;  boiled  blue-fish — white  "  cream  "  sauce ;  broiled  shad 
— ^boiled  rice  and  salad ;  lemons ;  compote  of  pigeons — mushroom 
sauce;  fresh  salmon — green  peas,  "cream"  sauce;  lobster — salad 
dressing;  sardines — sliced  lemons;  fish  in  general — Worcestershire 
sauce ;  ham — mustard ;  cod-fish,  fresh — oyster  sauce ;  boiled  beef— 
horse-radish ;  rabbits — black  currant  jelly.  i 

Pickles  are  good  with  all  roast  meats — in  fact  with  meats  in  gen-  , 
cral.     Lemon  juice  is  a  pleasant  addition  to-nearly  all  fish.    Slices  of 
lemon  cut  into  very  small  dice  and  allowed  to  boil  up  iii  drawn  but- 
ter is  a  fine  accompaniment  to  fowls. 


There  is,  perhaps,  no  question  that  comes, 
before  the  housekeeper  with  more  frequency 
than  the  disposal  of  the  remnants  of  meat,  fish 
and  fowl  in  some  appetizing  fashion.  The  average  servant 
usually  refuses  to  see  anything  in  them  save  "  cold  meat,"  and  a 
too  frequent  appearance  under  this  guise  sometimes  provokes  a 
domestic  mutiny. 

Now  a  little  ingenuity  is  all  that  is  needed  to  transform  these 
despised  fragn;ients  into  dainty  dishes  that  will  tempt  the  most  fasti- 
dious, and  sometimes  in  summer  are  more  appetizing  than  at  their 
first  appearance.  There  are  many  ways  in  which  to  use  these  left- 
over bits  of  meat  besides  making  into  hash,  although  this;^  when  well 
made,  is  by  no  means  to  be  despised.  Thus  the  remnants  from  a 
meal  should  never  be  thrown  away,  but  turned,  instead,  into  dainty 
and  healthful  di-shes.  For  making  soup  stock  and  curry  powder, 
fiee  "  Department  of  Souf)s." 

Pieces  of  cold  meat  or  fish  may  be  divided  into  small  pieces  and 
warmed  in  a  white  or  brown  sauce,  or  the  sauce  and  meat  or  fish  may 
be  put  in  a  small  baking-dish,  covered  with  grated  bread-crumbs,  and 
then  browned  in  the  oven.  Cold  meat  or  fish  may  be  hashed  fine 
and  mixed  with  potato^  rice  or  hominy  and  a  sauce,  and  made  into 
croquettes.  Tough  pieces  of  meat  and  bones  may  be  used  in  making 
little  stews  or  a  little  soup  stock.  All  kinds  of  meat  can  be  com- 
bined in  making  a  stew  or  soup. 

Pieces  ,of  bread  may  be  used  for  puddings  and  griddle-cakes,  and 
in  the  form  of  dried  crumbs  for  breading.  Pieces  of  cake  and  ginger- 
bread may  be  used  in  puddings.  A  few  spoonfuls  of  almost  any  kind 
of  meat,  fish  or  vegetable  may  be  heated  in  a  sauce  and  spread  over 
■i  plain  omelet  just  before  rolling  it  up,  thus  giving  a  change  in  this 
dish  of  eggs.  Gravies,  sauces  and  soups,  no  matter  ho^  small  the 
quantity,  should  be  saved  to  use  in  warming  over  meat,  fish  or  vege- 
tables. See  "  Croquettes,  Omelets,  Fritters  and  Toasts "  for  othei 
methods  of  serving  "left-overs," 
204 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC.  205 

Beef  Balls. — Mince  very  fine  pieces,  of  boiled  .or  roast  beef,  mix 
Ivith  it  cold  mashed  potatoes  and  one  or  two  eggs.  Season  well,  roll 
into  little  balls,  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  butier. 

Beef  Pie. — Mince  cold  cooked  beef  or  other  meat,  using  fat  and 
lean.  Have  very  fine.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  chopped  onion, 
and  a  little  parsley,  if  liked.  Moisten  with  gravy,  or,  if  none  is  handy, 
use  warm  water  in  which  has  been  melted  a  little  butter.  Fill  patty- 
pans two-thirds  full  of  this  mince,  and  fill  to  the  top  with  cold  mashed 
potatoes.    Put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.        ' 

Beef  Patties. — Chop  very  fine  the  beef  left  from  dinner.  Add 
cracker  crumbs,  1  small  onion  minced  fine,  salt  and  pepper  and  1  egg. 
Make  into  balls  and  fry  in  butter. 

Warmed  Over  Beef  frith  Potato  Border. — Cut  cold,  rare  roast 
beef  (or  any  cold  meat  may  be  used)  into  pieces  1  inch  in  size;  to 
every  half  pound  of  meat  add  1  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  1  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  onion,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  1  saltspoonful  of 
thyme;  mix  well.  Into  a  frying-pan  put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  drip- 
pings, 2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  when  heated  stir 
well,  and  add  gradually  1  pint  of  boiling  water. 
If  there  is  a  little  gravy  or  soup  stock  to  be  had 
add  to  this,  reducii^f  the  amount  ,of  water  uspd. 
Add  the  meat  and  seasoning,  bring  to  a  boil,  put 
on  a  platter  the  meat  with  some  gravy  and  ar- 
range the  potatoes  in  a  border  around  the  rheat, 
place  in  a  rather  hot  oven,  and  when  potatoes 
are  slightly  browned  remove  from  oven  and  pour 
remaining  ^gravy  over  the  meat.  | 

Missouri  Mince. — Nice  for  breakfast  or  dinner.  Slice  thinly  or 
mince  cold  roast  beef  or  pot  roast,  have  some  fat  with  it ;  put  into 
a  small  stewpan,  with  some  onion,  a  little  water,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
boil  till  the  onion  is  done,  and  then  add  some  of  the  gravy  of  the 
meat  to  it  and  the  sliced  meat;  do  not  let  it  boil,  have  small  hot  dish^ 
with  bits  of  bread  ready  and  pour  the  mince  into  it,  but  first  mix  a 
large  spoonful  of  vinegar  with  it. 

Gaunelon  of  Beef. — Chop  the  remains  of  cold  beef  into  small 
pieces  with  a  small  quantity  of\onions,  two  eggs  lightly  beaten,  with 
salt  to  taste.    Add  any  gravy  you  iiiay  have,  or  a  little  rich  broth  left 


206 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC. 


over-  from  dinner.  Roll  pie  crust  into  oblong  sheets,  place  meat  on 
it  and  roll.  Close  the  ends  with  a  cap  of  pastry,  put  in  a  hot  oven 
and  brown.- 

Sliced  Beef,  or  Other  Meat. — Melt  1  ounce  of  butter  with  a 
spoonful  of  flour  till  smooth,  dilute  it  gradually  with  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  stock,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  till  thick ;  then  stir  into  it  a  tea- 
spoonful  t)f  made  mustard,  a  teaspoonful  of  catsup,  and  ^^  little  pep- 
per; let  this  all  get  thoroughly  hot.    Meanwhile  cut  some  nice  shces 


The  Old  "Way.  The  New  Way. 

s  -  .  . 

oF  'beef  or  mutton,  or  any  brown  meat,  lay  these  in  the  sauce,  and  let 
them  get  thoroughly  hot,  but  without  boiling.  Dish  this  neatly  and 
garnish  with  little  heaps  of  pickles  and  croutons  of  fried  bread. 

Beef  a  la  Hamburg. — Take  the  Hamburg  patties  (Hamburg 
steak)  left  from  dinner  and  put  them  in  hot  water  on  the  stove  and  • 
let  them  boil  10  minutes,  stirring  so  as  to  break  them  apart  thin ;  skim 
out  the  "meat  and  thicken  with  flour,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter ;  let  that  come  to  aTboil  and  then  turn  on  the  beef;  it  is  a  very 
nice  dish  and  not  expensive,  and  is  much  used  in  both  cily  and 
country  at  the  present  time. 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC.  207 

Beef  Olives. — Cut  the  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  into  nice  slices; 
crack  the  bones  and  stew  them  in  a  little  water  for  an  hour,  with  a 
dash  of  pepper  and  salt,  then  strain.  Prepare  a  force-meat  as  follows: 
To  every  teacupful  of  grated  bread  add  a  small,  finely-phopped  onion, 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  pepper.  Moisten  each  slice  of  beef  with 
a  little  gravy,  cover  with  force-meat,  roll  rather  tightly,  and  skewer. 
Place  in  a  stew-pan,  pour  over  the  stock  made  from  the  bones,  cover 
closely  and  simmer  for  an  hour;  then  take  up  carefully,  remove  the 
skewers,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  blended  flour,  which  pour  over 
the  olives  and  serve. 

Beef  Cakes. — Mince  the  meat  very  fine.  Broil  and  mash  pota- 
toes equal  to  one-third  the  quantity  of  the  meat,  mix  them  together 
thoroughly,  season  with  pepper  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  minced. 
Add  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  to  bind  it.  Wash  and  flour  your 
hands.  Make  the  mince  into  cakes  about  the  size  round  of  the  top 
of  a  teacup,  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown  in  hot  butter  or  beef  drippings. 
Serve  on  a  napkin  with  a  garnish  of  fried  celery. 

Western  Scallop. — Bits  of  beef  (steak,  boiled  or  roast)  chopped 
fine,  and  cold  mashed  potatoes  seasoned  well.  Place  a  layer  at  the 
bottom  of  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the  meat,  another  layer  of  potato, 
and  continue  alternately  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Strew  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs  upon  it,  moisten  with  hot  milk  in  which  a  little  butter 
has  been  melted,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Cold  Meat  and  Tomatoes.-^Cut  cold  roast  beef  or  mutton  into 
thin  slices ;  dip  each  slice  into  flour,  and  dust  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
sweet  herbs — ^thyme  is  very  nice ;  lay  the  slices  into  a  deep  dish  and 
cover  with  gravy ;  pour  over  a  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes  to  a  2  quart 
dish  of  meat ;  add  water  to  fill  the  dish,  cover,  and  bake  2  or  3  hours. 

Cold  Beef  and  Potato  Scallop. — ^Take  cold  beef  or  veal,  chop 
and  season  as  for  hash.  Have  ready  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  as 
for  table.  Put  in  a  shallow  dish,  first  a  layer  of  meat,  then  potatoes, 
until  all  is  used.  Smooth  over  the  top  of  the  potatoes.  Make  little 
holes.     Fill  them  with  pieces  of  butter.     Bake  until  a  nice  brown. 

Frizzled  Corned  Beef. — Chop  pieces  of  boiled  corned  beef,  heat  in 
the  spider  with  some  sweet  milk,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  wet>  in 
cold  milk,  and  when  done  pour  into  a  deep  dish  in  which  is  a  piece 
of  butter  and  1  or  more  eggs,  according  to  how  much  meat  and  milk 


208  HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC 

you  have,  beating  the  egg  as  you  pour  the  hot  liquid  on  to  it    Nice 
with  baked  potatoes. 

Irish  Stew. — Cut  the  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  into  pieces  about 
an  inch  square,  crack  the  bones  and  put  both  beef  and  bones  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  any  cold  gravy  that  may  be  left,  half  a  carrot  sliced 
into  rings,  a  small  piece  of  turnip  cut  into  dice,  a  finely  chopped  onion, 
2  or  3  cloves  (when  the  flavor  is  liked),  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Barely  cover  the  whole  with  water,  put  on  the  lid,  and  stew  gently 
for  an  hour ;  then  add  a  quantity  of  potatoes  which  have  been  pre- 
viously peeled  and  cut  into  pieces  (not  too  small);  boil  until  the  po- 
tatoes are  cooked,  Dish  and  serve.  Another  very  nice  dish  may  be 
made  by  preparing  the  meat  as  in  the  above  recipe,  but  instead  of 
adding  the  potatoes,  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Make  a  wall  of 
mashed  potatoes  in  a  dish,  line  with  chopped  carrots  and  turnips, 
Brussels  sprouts  or  mashed  parsnips.  Pour  the  stew,  after  removing 
bones,  into  the  center  and  serve. 

Bubble  and  Squeak.-^Slice  cold  corn  beef  thin,  season  with  pep- 
per; then  Saute  with  a  little  butter  in  a  frying-pan.  Brown  some 
cold  boiled  cabbage  in  a  frying-pan.  Then  make  alternate  layers  in 
a  well-buttered  scallop  dish,  having  the  first  and  last  layers  of  beef. 
Over  this  pour  a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  sliced  cucumber  pickle,  and 
&  bit  of  minced  onion.    Bake,  and  serve  hot. 

Fricasseed  Beef. — Cut  cold  roast  beef  in  small  pieces.  Put  in 
a  stew-pan  with  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  and  some  finely 
minced  onion.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  a  little 
curry  powder.  Cover  with  water,  and  simmer  15  minutes.  Thicken 
with  a  little  flour,  if  necessary.    Serve  hot. 

Gottagpe  Pie. — ^A  good  recipe  for  using  cold  meat :  Take  cold 
meat  scraps.  Chop  fine,  with  a  small  onion,  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper.  Place  the  meat  in  a  deep  dish,  moistened  with  gravy  or  a 
little  butter  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Boil  and  mash  enough  pota- 
toes to  make  a  thick  cover  over  the  meat.  Fake  a  light  brown.  Put 
a  few  bits  of  better  over  the  potatoes  before  putting  them  into  the 
«}ven. 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie. — Cut  about  1}^  pounds  of  veal  into  thin 
slices,  as  also  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  boiled  ham;  season  the  yeal 
highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  with  which  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish ; 
lay  upon  this  a  few  slices  of  ham,jflien  the  remainder  of  the  veal, 


HASHES,  COI.D  MEATS,  ETC.  209 

finishing  with  the  remainder  of  the  ham;  add  a  wineglassful  of  water. 
Cover  with  a  good  paste,  and  bake.     A  bay  leaf  is  an  addition. 

Beefsteak  Pie. — Cut  cold  beefsteak  or  other  cold  beef  in  small 
pieces.  Peel  and  slice  an  equal  amount  of  raw  potatoes.  Take  a 
deep  dish ;  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  one  of  meat,  and  so  on 
until  the  dish  Is  filled.  Season.  Pour  in  a  cupful  of  hot  water  with 
a  small  lump  of  butter  dissolved  in  it,  or  a  cupful  of  milk.  Cover 
with  a  plain  crust  and  bake  1  hour.  A  crust  of  mashed  potatoes  may 
may  be  used  instead,  dotting  the  top  with  bits  of  butter. 

'Gravy  for  Hasbes. — Break  the  bones  of  any  cooked  joint,  and 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  any  spare  cuttings  of  meat  you  may 
have.  Add  a  little  pepper,  salt,  one-half  a  h6ad  of  celery  and  a  bou- 
quet of  sweet  herbs.  Sufficient  water  to  cover,  simmer  2  hours.  Cut 
a  small  onion  into  slices,  fry  it  in  a  little  butter,  add  it  to  the  gravy 
and  let  it  boil  15  minutes.  Strain  it  into  another  stewpan,  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  walnut  catsup  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ; 
boil  it  up  and  it  will  be  ready  for  the  meat. 

Com  Beef  Hash. — Chop  equal  parts  of  corned  beef  and  cold 
boiled  potatoes  separately  until  fairly  fine.  Mix  thoroughly,  but 
lightly.  Heat  through  and  brown  slightly.  Moisten  with  gravy  or 
boiling  water  and  a  little  butter. 

Hashed  Beef. — ^Three  cupfuls  of  cold  beef  or  veal-  hashed  fine, 
first  freeing  from  sinew  and  skin.  Mince  1  good-sized  onion;  put  in 
the  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  when  beginning  to 
color  lightly  add  the  meat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  little 
powdered  sage  or  thyme  if  liked.  Moisten  with  boiling  water,  making 
whatever  consistency  is  liked.    Serve  hot  with  buttered  toast. 

Hash  with  Baw  Potatoes. — ^This  is  very  convenient  when  no 
cold  potatoes  are  handy,  besides  many  people  prefer  it  to  hash  made 
with  potatoes  already  cooked.  Chop  the  raw  potatoes  (first  peeling) 
very  fine ;  put  them,  together  with  the  minced  meat,  into  a  frying 
pan  containing  boiling  water  and  butter.  Season,  and  kt  cook  until 
the  potatoes  are  soft,  adding  boiling  water  from  time  t9  time  as  it  is 
needed.  Let  cook  down  until  quite  d^y,  browning  slightly,  but  do 
not  burn.     This  makes  a  nice  dish  for  a  home  dinner. 

Baked  Hash. — Mince  fine  any  pieces  of  cold  cooked  meat.  To 
every  pint  of  meat  add  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  a  sprig  of  parsley  chopped,  a  little  chopped  onion  (if  the  flavor 

COOK— 14 


210 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETG. 


is  not  disliked),  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  and  a  sea- 
soning of  pepper  and  salt.  Add  sufficient  gravy  to  moisten  it  thor- 
oughly, but  not  enough  to  make  it  sloppy.  Just  make  it  warm  over 
the  fire,  mix  well,  and  bake  it  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes.  Nice  for  a 
home  dinner. 

Hash  with  Bread. — A  good  way  to  use  up  stale  bread  is  to 
crumb  it  and  mix  with  equal  portions  of  finely-chopped  cooked  meat. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice,  or  minced  onions.  Moisten 
with  milk  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  delicate  brown. 

Creamed  Hash. — Chop  mutton,  Veal  or  beef  as  fine  as  for  hash; 
fry  for  a  few  moments  in  salt  pork  drippings.    Take  from  the  fire, 

and,  in  the  same  frying  pan,  make 
a  rich  cream  gravy,  if  cream  is  a 
possibility;  if  not,  use  milk,  thick- 
ening it  with  corn-starch,  and  add- 
ing a  generous  lump  of  butter. 
Pour  half  of  the  gravy  into  a  pan 
over  the  fire;  thin  it  with  hot 
water;  dip  in  it  slices  of  well- 
I  browned  toast ;  lay  ;the  moistened 
'toast  upon  a  flat  dish  and  set  it 
in  a  warm  place.  Into  the  thick 
cream  gravy  put  the  minced  meat; 
cook  it  5  minutes;  then  spread  it 
upon  the  toast. 

Ap|>I«  Hash. — Two  or  3  tart  apples  sliced ;  put  in  a  frying  pan 
with  a  little  water  and  butter ;  cover  and  let  cook  a  few  minutes. 
Then  put  in  hashed  meat  and  potatoes.  Season  to  taste;  cover,  and 
let  cook  until  the  apples  are  soft. 

Hashed  Meat  on  Toast. — ^Two  cupfuls  of<chopped  meat,  half 
pint  of  soup  stock,  gravj^  or  boiling  water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of" 
butter  melted  in  it.  Season  to  taste,  mix  altogether,  and  put  in  a 
stew  pan,  cover  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Toast  six  small  slices 
of  bread,  and  arrange  upon  a  warm  platter.  Spread  the  hash  upon 
them,  and  serve  at  once. 

Veal  Pates Chop  the  remains  of  veal  with  a  little  ham ;  season 

well;  add  gravy  and  a  little  oyster  liquor.  Heat  almost  to  boilirig 
5ind  set  by,  covered,  where  it  will  keep  warm.    Butter  patty  pans. 


Double  Mmcing  Knife. 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC.  211 

lias  with  paste  and  bake.  Slip  the  shells  on  to  a  hot  dish,  fill  with 
the  mince,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  on  top  and  brown  lightly. 

Minced  Veal. — Put  the  bones  of  a  cold  fillet  or  loin  of  veal,  or 
any  other  bones  you  may  have,  into  a  stewpan  with  the  skin  and 
trimmings  of  the  meat.  Dredge  in  a  little  flour,  pour  in  a  pint  oi 
water,  a  small  onion,  sliced,  a  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs,  white  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  , Simmer  these  ingredients  for  an  hour,  then  strain 
the  gravy  and  thicken  it  with  an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  boil 
it  up  again  and  skim  well.  While  the  gravy  is  cooking,  mince  2  or  3 
cupfuls  of  veal,  but  not  too  fine.  When  the  gravy  is  ready  put  it  in 
and  warm  it  gradually;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Pile  the  mince  in 
the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  garnish  with  squares  of  toasted  bread  and 
points  of  lemon.  Place  3  nicely  poached  eggs  on  top,  and  the  result 
will  be  a  pretty  as  well  as  nice  dish  for  the  table. 

Veal  a  la  Princess. — Two  cupfuls  of  minced  veal;  1^  cups  of 
milk ;  1  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  creamed 
with  the  flour ;  1  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley ;  salt  and  pepper. 
Heat  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  butter  and  flour.  Stir  smooth  and 
turn  over  the  veal.  Let  boil  up  and  serve.  This  may  be  varied  by 
arranging  slices  of  hot  toast  on  a  platter,  the  minced  veal  over  them. 
Cold  fowl  may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

Veal  a  la  Bombay. — Cut  neat  slices  of  cold  roast  veal.  Fry  a 
sliced  onion  in  butter  until  it  is  a  delicate  brown.  Then  in  the  same 
pan  fry  a  spoonful  or  more,  according  to  the  amount  of  meat,  of  curry 
powder.  Dilute  this  all  with  some  soup  stock  and  let  stew  gently 
with  a  sliced  tomato  and  a  tablespoonful  of  roux  (flour  and  butter 
creamed  together),  until  the  sauce  is  quite  thick.  Then  lay  in  the 
slices  of  veal  and  let  it  stand  on  one  side  of  the  stove  to  keep  very 
warm,  but  not  boil.  Make  a  wall  around  a  dish  of  hot  boiled  rice, 
boiled  quite  dry  and  seasoned  with  considerable  butter  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper.  Pour  the  veal  and  sauce  into  the  center  of  this  and 
serve.  In  dishing  out,  give  a  little  of  the  rice  with  every  portion  of 
the  meat.    This  is  very  nice  without  the  rice. 

Deviled  Veal. — Cut  thin  slices  of  roast  veal,  broil  on  hot  coals, 
season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  mustard.  Serve  hot  with  a  lump 
of  butter  on  each  slice.    " 

Deviled  Beef.— This  is  prepared  same  as  Deviled  Veal. 


212  HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC. 

Cold  Veal  Cutlets. — Cold  cutlets  are  also  very  nice,  if  trimmed, 
dipped  in  egg  or  warm  butter  and.  seasoned  bread-crumbs,  lightly 
broiled,  and  dished  round  a  ragout  of,  cucumber  or  any  other  vege- 
table at  hand. 

Kagout  of  Veal. — Cut  cold  cooked  veal  in  neat  slices.  Fry  in 
butter  to  a  light  brown.  Take  up  and  pour  a  little  hot  water  in  the 
pan.  Roll  a  bit  of  butter  large  as  a  nutmeg  in  flour  and  thicken  the 
gravy  with  it.  If  not  sufficient,  add  more  flour.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  a  little  lemon-juice,  or  catsup.  Put  in  the  meat  and  let 
get  very  hot.    Serve.    An  onion  maybe  sliced  in  instead  of  the  lemon. 

Jellied  Ham. — Chop  equal  parts  of  cold  ham  and  cooked  veal, 
until  you  have  a  quart ;  then  season  highly  with  Frenclv  mustard  and 
cayenne.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  skillet.  When  hot,  stir  in 
the  ham  and  veal ;  add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
gelatine,  the  gelatine  having  previously  been  dissolved  in  cold  water. 
Stir  thoroughly  and  pflt  into  moulds  that  have  been  dipped  in  water. 
Set  on  ice  or  in  a  very  cool  place  to  get  firm.  The  mould  can  be 
lined  with  circular  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg,  if  desired.  A  very  nice 
dish  for  luncheon  or  tea.  Slice  it  and  garnish  the  plate  with  thinly 
sliced  lemon  or  sprigs  of  parsley,  or  both.  Almost  any  meat  can  be 
served  in  this  way,  and  more  than  one  kind  can  be  used  at  a  time,  if 
the  various  remnants  are  at  hand.  ^  . 

Westplialla  lioaves. — Mix  one-half  pound  well-chopped,  cooked 
ham  with  1  pound  of  mealy  potatoes,  well  mashed ;  add  a  spoonful 
of  butter,  a  little  milk  or  cream  and  2  eggs ;  make  into  small  balls 
and  fry  like  fish-balls;  serve  with  brown  gravy;  very  nice.  Two 
cupfuls  of  ham  (chopped)  to  twice  as  much  potato,  will  be  about  equal 
to  the  above  proportions. 

Curried  Ham. — Chop  the  meat  fine,  being  careful  to  remove  any 
pieces  of  gristle  and  fat.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  sauce- 
pan, when  hot  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  cook  until  smooth,  but 
not  bi-own,  add  gradually  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  stirring  constantly ;  add 
the  chopped  ham,  seasoned  highly  with  red  pepper  (curry  powder,  if 
liked)  and  a  little  salt.  Let  the  meat  get  4horoughly  hot  and  serve. 
A  beaten  egg  may  be  added,  making  a  pleasant  variety. 

Ham  and  Macaroni. — Chop  pieces  of  boiled  ham,  boil  macaroni 
in  salted  water,  place  in  deep  dish,  first  chop|>ed  ham,  then  macaroni, 
and  so  on  until  dish  is  nearly  full;  roll  cracker  fine,  or  crumbs,  cover 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC.  213 

top  of  dish  and  place  over  that  thin  slices  of  cheese.    Bake  for  half 
an  hour. 

Ham  on  Potatoea. — Chop  bits  of  cold  broiled  or  boiled  ham 
very  fine ;  cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thick,  even  slices  and  fry  until 
nicely  browned  on  both  sides ;  lay  on  a  hot  platter  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  bits  of  butter ;  between  each  layer  sprinkle  a  little 
of  the  chopped  ham  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat  through. 

Ham  Patties. — Take  scraps  of  ham  that  are  left  over,  and  with 
one  good-sized  onion,  chopped  fine,  for  1  ppund  of  chopped  ham,  add 
1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  dry  musfcird,  a  little  pepper.  Make  up  into 
balls  and  fry. 

Ham  and  Tomatoes^ — ^A  savory  breakfast  dish  is  made  from  ripe 
tomatoes  and  a  little  cold  boiled  or  broiled  ham.  Chop  the  ham  fine, 
and  use  from  a  half-cup  to  a  cupful,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  > 
three  firm  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  slices.  Add  a  half-tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  and  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  2  raw^  eggs.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are  set ;  season  with  red  pepper, 
and  serve  on  well-browned  toast,  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley,  if 
parsley  is  liked. 

Scalloped  Ham. — Beat  1  egg  with  1  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter ;  chop  bits  of  cold  cooked  ham ;  butter  a  dish  or  pan,  and  lay 
in  it  a  layer  of  cold  boiled  and  sliced  potatoes,  sprinkle  them  with 
pepper  and  salt,  then  put  a  layer  of  the  ham,  another  of  potatoes,  and 
so  on  till  the  dish  be  full,  finishing  with  the  potatoes.  Pour  over 
.this  half  a  pint  of  milk,  stand  the  dish  in  the  oven  and  bake  quickly. 
Two  or  three  kinds  of  meat  remnants  can  be  u^ed  at  the  same  time 
in  this  dish,  and  any  kind  of  meat  can  be  used  instead  of  ham. 

Deviled  Ham. — Fry  slices  of  cold  ham.  Keep  warm  while  stir- 
ring in  the  gravy  4'tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  mixed  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  half  teaspoonful  of 
catsup.     Let  boil  up  and  turn  over  the  ham. 

Minced  Mutton  or  Lamb. — Cut  the  meat  into  nice  square  pieces, 
and  stew  them  for  an  hour,  then  strain  off  the  stock  and  add  to  it  1 
large  Spanish  onion,  cut  not  too  finely;  simmer  for  20  minutes,  then 
add  1  pint  of  new  milk,  with  seasoning  to  taste,  thicken  with  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  6f  blended  flour,  add  the  meat  and  allow  to  get  thoroughly 
hot,  but  do  not  boil.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve  with  mashed 
potatoes.    Veal  can  be  minced  in  the  same  manner. 


214  HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC. 

Haricot  of  Mutton. — ^Take  cold  mutton,  cut  into  slices  and  lay 
in  a  deep  saucepan,  then  put  in  1  onion,  1  small  turnip,  2  potatoes,  1 
carrot,  all  cut  into  small  pieces.  Dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  1  hour,  then  add  2  spoons  of 
flour  mixed  with  cold  water  and  boil  1  hour  longer.  Turn  on  to  a 
platter,  around  the  edge  of  which  arrange  alternately  little  piles  of 
mashed  potato  and  boiled  rice,  with  a  tiny  sprig  of  parsley,  between 
each,  as  a  garnish. 

Frizzled  Mutton. — This  is  taken  from  the  left-overs  of  the  mutton 
of  the  day  before.  Shave  it  in  very  thin  slices,  and  puf  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan,  put  in  the  slices,  and  toss  them  for  a 
moment,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix,  pour  over  a  half  pint  of 
milk,  bring  to  a  boiling  point,  and  serve.  With  this  course  serve  the 
buckwheat  cakes. 

Cold  Sliced  Mutton. — Cut  thin  slices  from  the  cold  mutton,-trim 
free  from  gristle  and  fat.  Arrange  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  cress  and 
currant  jelly. 

liamb  Pie. — Cut  cold  lamb  in  slices.  Season  lightly.  Alternate 
slices  of  cold  potatoes  with  the  lamb.  Moisten  with  strong  stock  in 
which  an  onion  has  been  boiled.  Put  pastry  on  sides  and  top  of  pan. 
Bake  20  or  30  minutes. 

_^Haslied  Mutton. — Cut  cold  mutton  in  bits.  If  rare  so  anuch 
better.  Boil  the  bones  and  r6ugh  trimmings  of  the  meat  in  enough 
water  to  cover,  strain  the  gravy  into  a  sauce  pan,  add  the  mutton 
and  any  left-over  cold  vegetables,  such  as  carrots,  turnips  or  potatoes, 
first  slicing,  together  with  a  little  chopped  onion.  A  ripe  tomato 
sliced  in  is  an  improvement.  Let  simmer  and  finally  boil  up.  Any 
kind  of  meat  can  be  served  in  same  manner. 

If  oodles  and  Meat  Stew.-^Cut  any  kind  of  cold  meat  in  mod- 
erately small  pieces,  add  gravy,  soup  stock  or  boiling  water  and 
butter,  sufficient  to  make  about  a  quart  of  liquor,  and  to  this  add 
either  noodles  or  duinplings,  and  the  result  will  be  a  dish  for  dinner 
that  all  will  relish.  - 

Savory  Tongue. — Cut  the  tongue  in  very  thin  slices  after  peeling 
it,  and  then  in  very  small  bits.  Put  a  layer  of  thick  tomato  sauce  in 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  fill  it  up  with  bits  of  tongue.  Add  a 
mere  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  pinch  of  minced  parsley  and  also  of 
aainced  onion.    Put  a  layer  of  the  tomato  sauce  on  top.    Sprinkle  a 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC. 


215 


few  fine  bread  crumbs  over  the  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  10  or 
15  minutes.     If  onion  is  not  liked,  omit. 

Veal  Terrapin. — Odds  and  ends  of  mutton,  veal,  pork,  beef,  liver, 
or  all  together:  cut  into  dice,  size  of  peas;  liver  is  much  the  best; 
add  to  the  dice  1 
small  tablespoon  of 
flour,  1  tablespoon 
made  mustard,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  cay- 
enne, one-fourth  tea- 
spoon clove ;  add 
gravy  and  a  scant 
cup  of  boiling  water ; 
keep  well  covered; 
put  where  it  will  not 
boil,  but  be  just  at 
the  boiling  point; 
just  before  serving 
add  2  chopped  hard- 
boiled    eggs,  butter  ^^"^^  Hopper  for  Chopping  Meats. 

size  of  an  egg,  wine-glass  of  cider  or  vinegar,  serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 
Deviled  CMcken. — Chop  very  fine  any  pieces  of  cold  cooked 
chicken  that  may  be  left.  To  every  pint  of  this  meat  allow  one-half 
pint  of  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  buttef,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  one- 
quarter  nutmeg,  grated.  Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.'  Put  the  butter 
in  a  frying-pan  to  melt ;  then  add  the  bread-crumbs,  cream,  chicken  , 
and  seasoning.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  boils ;  then  add  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs  chopped  very  fine.  Fill  paper  cases  or  individual  dishes 
with  this  mixture,  sprinkle  lightly  with  bread-crumbs  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. 

>  Scalloped  Turkey. — Chop  the  remains  of  chicken  or  turkey,  put 
a  layer  of  bread-crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish,  then  a  layer 
of  oysters,  a  layer  of,  chopped  turkey  or  chicken,  then  another  layer 
of  bread-crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  and  so  on,  until  you  have  used  all 
up.  Have  the  top  layer  crumbs.  Pour  over  all  a  cream  sauce  (half 
pint),  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  25  minutes.  If  there  is 
any  gravy  thin  it  and  pour  over,  instead  of  cream  sauce. 


216  HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC. 

Fricassee  of  Cold  Boast  Fowl. — Take  the  remnants  of  2  roasted 
fowls  and  cut  them  up.  Put  all  the  trimmings  and  bones  of  the  legs 
into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  a  bouquet  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  about  a  pint  of  water.  Let  stew 
gently  until  reduced  to  half  the  quantity;  Cut  the  remainder  of  the 
fowl  into  joints,  strain  the  gravy  and  put  in  the  fowl.  When 
thoroughly  hot  beat  up  an  egg,  mix  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  stir  it  gradually  into  the  gravy.  Make  it  very  hot,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.  Milk  can  be  used  instead  of  cream.  If  eggs  are  not 
convenient^  thicken  with  a  little  corn-starch  blended  with  a  little  cold 
water. 

Petits  Pains. — ^These  can  be  made  of  fish  or  any  kind  of  white 
meat.  Cut  into  small  bits  the  remainders  of  some  cold  veal  or 
chicken,  and  mix  with  the  following  sauce :  Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with 
a  shred  of  onion  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Thicken 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Have 
ready  6  or  8  quite  small  dinner  rolls,  cut  off  the  tops  and  scoop  out 
most  of  the  crumb,  butter  the  inside  of  the  rolls,  and  when  the  pre- 
pared mixture  is  cold,  fill  them  with  it.  Arrange  on  a  dish  and  gar- 
nish with  parsley..  ^ 

Fish  Flakes. — ^Two  cupfuls  of  cold  cooked,  nicely-flaked  fish. 
Make  the  following  sauce :  Roll  a  piece  of  butter;  the  size  of  an  egg, 
thoroughly  in  flour,  and  dissolve  in  one-half  cupful  of  hot  water  in  a 
sauce-pan ;  add  1  dessert-speonful  each  of  mixed  mustard  and  pep- 
per sauce,  and  1  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk;  put  in  the  fish  flakes, 
heat  well  and  serve ;  or  pour  in  a  buttered  dish,  cover  thickly  with 
bread-crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  brown  the  top  in  the  oven. 
A  very  nice  way  of  serving  remnants  of  fish. 

Turbot  a  la  Creme. — ^Take  the  left-over  bits  of  fish  from  dinner, 
with  2  silver  forks  pick  it  to  pieces ;  remove  all  skin  and  bone.  Dress- 
ing— One  quart  of  milk,  one-half  onion,  pinch  of  thyme,  a  little  pars- 
ley ;  let  simmer  slowly  to  extract!  the  flavor ;  add  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Strainthrough  a  hair-sieve  on  to  the 
beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs ;  beat  into  half  the  dressing  the  fish ;  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish ;  sprinkle  over  top  grated  bread-crumbs  and  a 
little  grated  cheese ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  lightly  browned  on  top. 

Wonders. — Take  any  bits  of  cold  meat  and  chop  fine;  take  half 
as  much  potatoes  as  meat  and  the  same  of  bread,  broken  fine; 


HASHES,  COLD  MEATS,  ETC.  217 

moisten  the  bread  with  hot  water ;  a  good  tablespoon  of  flour  made 
into  a  smooth  paste ;  2  or  3  eggs  beaten  well,  and  any  cold  gravies 
that'  may  be  left  over ;  season  well ;  beat  them  all  together  for  5 
minutes ;  drop  from  the  spoon  into  a  hot,  greased  spider. 

Liunclieon  Salad  (Boiled  Meat). — Soup  meat  may  be  utilized  in 
numberless  savory  ways.  Chopped  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt,  cloves, 
pepper,  vinegar  and  a  little  onion  and  lemon  juice,  it  makes  a  nice 
salad  for  luncheon.  A  good  breakfast  dish  may  be  made  by  stewing 
the  left-over  soup  meat  in  a  little  tomato  catsup  and  serving  on  slices 
of  buttered  toast. 

Salmi  of  Chicken. — ^Take  minced  cold  chicken  and  moisten  well 
with  drawn  butter,  using  celery,  salt  and  pepper  for  seasoning  and 
heating  the  whole.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  baking-dish  with  bread 
crumbs ;  add  to  the  chicken  a  beaten  egg,  and  lemon  juice  to  flavor, 
and  pour  into  the  dish.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  together 
with  pieces  of  butter,  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown.  The  baking-dish 
should  be  covered. 

Chicken  Dumplings.— Mince  remnants  of  cold  chicken,  and  put, 
with  seasoning,  and  one-half  cupful  of  liquor  from  boiled  chickens  or 
other  soup  stock,  into  a  sauce-pan.  Let  boil  gently.  Thicken  with 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  in  a  little  cold  water.  Afterward  add  1 
beaten  egg.  Stir  until  it  thickens.  Pour  out  and  let  cool.  -  Flour 
the  hands  and  make  into  balls.  Roll  in  cracker-dust ;  dip  in  beaten 
egg ;  then  dip  again  in  bread-crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Deviled  Cold  Meat. — Cut  cold  meat  into  dice.  Put  a  scant 
tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan ;  when  hot  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  stale  bread-crumbs;  fry  until  brown;  add  the  meat — ^a  pint,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  a  sprinkling 
of  salt.  When  the  meat  is  thoroughly  heated,  add  the  yolks  of  2 
hard-boiled  eggs  mashed  fine,  a  half  cup  of  stock,  or  water ;  let  boil 
up  once,  and  serve  very  hot.  Buttered  toast  should  be  served 
with  it. 

Ham  Mince  withlEggs. — Mix  2  cupfuls  of  cracker-crumbs  with 
an  equal  amount  of  finely-minced,  lean  boiled  ham.  Moisten  with  a 
little  hot  water,  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  dissolved  in  it.  Put  this 
mixture  in  a  broad,  shallow  baking-dish.  Make  depressions  in  it, 
and  in  each  of  these  break  an  egg.  Bake  until  the  eggs  are  cooked 
Any  other  meat  hash  may  be  served  the  same  way. 


"  ^SS^  ^^^t  '^th  a  knife  will  cause  sorrow 

and  strife;  ^, 

Beat  with  a  spoon  will  make  heavy  soon; 
Beat  with  a  fork  will  make  light  as  a  cork" 
In  shaking  an  egg,  if  it  makes  sound,  it  is  not  a  good 
egg,  and  should  be  rejected.  The  water  test  consists  in 
putting  them  in  water  deep  enough  to  cover ;  the  "good 
eggs"  will  lie  flat  at  the  bottom,  while  the  "bad  eggs"  will  stand  up- 
right, like  many  other  unsound  things  in  the  world.  The  "candling" 
process  consists  in  looking  through  the  egg  at  a  light,  or  holding  it 
between  you  and  the  sun.  If  it  shows  up  clear  and  spotless,  so  that 
the  yolk  can  be  perceived,  it  is  good ;  otherwise  it  is  not.  "  They 
say,  "when  4  ounces  of  salt  are  dissolved  in  40  ounces  of  water,  an  egg 
a  day  old  will  sink  to  the  bottom ;  one  2  days'  old  will  nearly  reach 
the  bottom ;  three  days'  old  will  float  near  the  top,  and  5  or  more  days 
old  will  project  above  the  surface  more  and  more  as  it  becomes  older. 
,Eggs  should  be  broken  separately  into  a  saucer  or  cup,  as  one  bad 
one  will  spoil  all  the  others. 

Packings  Eggs. — Dry  packing  has  many  advocates.  It  consists 
simply  in  packing  eggs  in  salt,  putting  the  small  end  downward,  and 
seeing  that  the  eggs  do  not  touch  each  other.-  Bran  and  saw-dust  are 
also  used.  The  tops  must  be  covered  thickly,  and  the  whole  set  away 
in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Before  packing  in  this  way,  some  smear  the 
shells  with  butter  or  lard.  Nail  on  the  cover  of  the  box,  and  keep 
in  a'  cool  place.  When  wanted  for  use  take  off  the  bottom  cover  so 
as  to  use  the  eggs  packed  first.  Be  sure  the  eggs  are  clean  when 
packing,  and  the  salt  can  be  used  over  again.  Eggs  packed  for  eight 
months  in  this  manner  have  been  found  perfectly  fresh.  Set  the  boxes 
or  kegs  uppn  sticks  that  there  may  be  a  free  circulation  of  air. 

Brine  for  Eggs. — ^One  pint  of  fresh,  air-slaked  lime,  1  pint  of  salt, 
4  gallons  pf  water.    Rubb  the  eggs  with  lard,  or  dip  in  melted  tallow, 
and  put  in  this  brine,  small  end  down.     Put  in  the  eggs  in  such  quan- 
tities as  may  be  convenient.    This  amount  of  brine  will  cover  200 
218 


EGGS.        -  219 

eggs.     The  last  of  July  or  first  of  August  is  a  good  time  to  begin 
packing. 

Poaclied  Eggs. — Poached  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  and  digesti- 
ble ways  to  cook  an  egg.  The  slightly  salted  water  should  be  at  the 
boiling  point,  but  not  boiling.  That  tears  the  white  to  pieces  and  makes 
"  rags  "  of  it.  The  egg  broken  first  in  a  saucer  or  cup,  should  be  slid 
easily  in,  and  the  hot  water  heaped  over  the  yolk  as  it  cooks,  to  hasten 

its  covering  while  it  is  still  soft.   A 

flat  perforated  cream  skimmer  is  the' 

'  best  utensil  to  take  out  the  egg,  and 

it  should  reach  the  table  on  a  square 

of  hot  toast  from  which  the  crusts 

are  cut,  and  which  has  been  dipped 

Egg  Poacher.  in  hot  water  and  buttered,  and  on  a 

hot  plate,  30  seconds  from  the  moment  of  leaving  the  water.   French 

cooks  poach  eggs  in  a  ball  by  giving  the  water  a  rapid  rotary  motion 

with  a  fork  and  dropping  the  egg  in  the  centre  of  this  swirl. 

If  toast  is  not  used,  take  up  the  eggs  on  a  hot  platter.  Sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  A  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  in  the  water  helps  the  salt  to  set  the  whites  quickly.  Egg 
poachers  are  sold  that  can  be  buttered  and  have  1  egg  dropped  in  each 
compartment,  and  then  half  a  dozen  at  a  time  can  be  immersed  in  the 
boiling  water,  thus  keeping  them  in  shape.  In  the  absence  of  these 
drop  muffin-rings,  buttered,  in  J:hc  bottom  of  the  same  pan,  and  break 
an  egg  in  each  one.  By  the  exercise  of  a  little  care,  however,  the 
eggs  can  be  nicely  poached  without  any  of  these  aids. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Gravy. — Poach  as  above ;  lay  each  egg  on 
a  slice  of  softened,  buttered  toast,  and  turn  a  hot  gravy  over  the  whole. 
Eggs  Boiled  in  the  Shell. — Have  in  a  saucepan  as  much  hard 
boiling  water  as  will  surely  cover  the  eggs  when  put  in.  In  this  man- 
ner they  will  cook  evenly.  Put  them  in  all  at  the  same  time,  if  possi- 
ble, leave  them  in  3  minutes  and  a  half.  Put  them  on  the  dish  cov- 
ered with  a  folded  napkin,  as,  if  they  are  eaten  one  by  one  in  the  shell, 
those  left  in  the  dish  will  in  this  manner  be  kept  warm.  Eggs  must, 
be  eaten  as  soon  as  cooked.  Boiling  3  minutes  leaves  them  very  soft; 
5  minutes  will  harden  the  white.  Some  authorities  recommend  put- 
ting the  eggs  in  a  saucepan  and  pouring  boiling  water  over  them. 
Cover  the  dish  tight,  and  set  back  where  the  water  will  keep  hot,  but 


220  EGGS. 

not  boil.  Let  it  stand  10  minutes.  The  effect  is  quite  different  from 
that  produced  by  boiling,  both  the  flavor  and  texture  jof  the  egg  be- 
ing vastly  superior  to  an  egg  boiled  in  the  usual  manner. 

Fried  Eggs. — Melt  a  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  let 
it  get  hot  without  coloring ;  slip  into  this  four  eggs,  broken  separately 
in  a  saucer,  and  baste  them  with  the  butter  until  the  whites  begin  to 
set.  Some  very  good  cooks  put  into  the  pan  a  few  drops  of  olive  (jil 
instead  of  butter,  and  the  moment  the  egg  is  "  set,"  turn  it  quickly 
over  with  a  pancake  turner,  and  let  it  just  "set"  on  the  other  side. 
A  very  little  butter  can  be  used  in  the  same  way.  The  eggs  can  be 
laid  on  a  folded  napkin,  to  absorb  every  particle  of  fat. 

Smothered  Eggs. — Put  not  quite  as  much  hot  butter  and  lard,  or 
ham  dripping,  in  a  pan  as  for  frying  eggs  in  the  ordinary  way.  Break 
the  eggs  to  be  used  on  a  plate,  and  when  the  fat  is  hot  slip  them  into 
the  frying-pan  evenly,  not  on  one  side,  or  the  grease  will  slip  out 
from  under,  and  they  will  stick  to  the  pan.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Pour  over  them  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water.  Cover  quickly 
with  a  close  fitting  lid.  Let  them  steam  4  or  5  minutes,  or  more, 
according  to  the  degree  of  hardness  required.  They  will  be  found 
nicely  whitened  over  the  top,  like  eggs  that  have  ^en  dropped  in 
boiUng  water,  and  much  more  palatable  than  those  poached  without 
fat. 

Steamed  Eggs. — Butter  a  deep  pie  tin,  and  break  carefully  into 
it  as  many  eggs.as  are  needed.  Sprinkle  them  with  pepper,  salt  and 
bits  of  butter ;  place  in  a  steameir  over  boiling  water  until  done.  This 
will  be  found  better  than  poaching  them,  especially  if  cooked  for  an 
invalid,  as  they  are  lighter  and  more  tender.  They  may  be  steamed 
thus  in  individual  patty  pans,  and  will  keep  in  better  shape. 

Grlddled  Eggs. — Heat  the  griddle  almost  as  much  as  for  griddle 
cakes.  Butter  it  lightly  and  place  upon  it  as  many  eggs  as  you 
desire  to  cook.  When  they  become  slightly  browned,  turn  them  with 
a  cake  turner.  They  will  get  sufficiently  cooked  in  about  a  minute 
and  a  half.    This  is  a  delicate  way  of  frying  eggs. 

Baked  Eggs.— Break  the  eggs  carefully  intp  a  buttered  dish. 
Sprinkle  wi*h  pepper  and  salt.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and  bake 
until  the  whites  are  well  set.  They  may  also  be  broken  into  indiv> 
dual  egg  cases,  or  into  buttered  gem  tins,  seasoned  and  baked.  A 
great  variety  of  flavors  can  be  given  baked  eggs.    Two  drops  o^ 


EGGS.  221 

lemon  juice,  or  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  will 
change  the  flavor  of  the  egg.  A  little  boiled  ham,  chopped  fine,  or 
grated  cheese,  will  give  still  other  flavors. 

Creamed  Eggs. — Boil  some  eggs  hard,  cut  them  in  slices,  and 
season  each  slice  with  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  grated  nutmeg.  Lay 
the  slices  on  a  dish,  cover  with  a  hot  drawn  butter  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley  and  serve  Ten  to  12  niinutes  will  boil  eggs 
hard  enough  to  slice. 

Boiled  Eggs  with  Cream  Sauce. — Boil  eggs  enough  for  the 
family,  20  minutes ;  split  them  lengthwise,  put  them  in  a  deep  dish 
and  pour  over  cream  sauce. 

Cream  Sauce  for  Boiled  Eggs. — One  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk; 
for  cream  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  you  must  use  twice  as  much 
butter  if  you  use  milk ;  1  generous  tablespoon  of  flour ;  salt  and 
white  pepper  to  taste;  let  cream  come  to  a  boil,  have  the  flour  mixed 
smoothly  with  half  a  cup  of  cold  cream  reserved  from  the  pint ;  stir 
it  into  the  boiling  cream  and  boil  3  minutes ;  pour  over  the  eggs  and 
serve. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — For  5  persons  take  8  eggs,  beat  them  well, 
then  add  8  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  hot 
pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  carefully  from  the  bottom  until  they  thicken. 
They  should  be  taken  from  the  fire  while  still  soft  enough  to  run,  as 
they  cook  a  few  seconds  longer,  and  even  retain  a  hardening  heat  on 
their  way  to  the  table,  all  of  which  must  be  allowed  for.  Cream  may 
be  used  instead  of  milk. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Bacon. — Fry  thin  strips  of  bacon  until 
almost  done,  then  add  8  or  10  well-beaten  eggs,  seasoned  with  pep- 
per ;  4  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.     Cook  all  together.    Serve  hot. 

Scalloped  Eggs. — Place  a  layer,  of  stale  bread  crumbs  in  the  bot-  , 
tom  of  a  buttered  dish,  and  pour  over  enough  sweet  cream  to  moisten. 
Slice  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  put  a  layer  with  plentiful  dots  of  butter, 
and  a  httle  salt  and  pepper.  Continue  alternate  layers  till  the  dish  is 
full.  Sift  crumbs  over  the  top,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake. 

Eggs  in  Scallop  Shells. — Have  some  ham  or  tongue  chopped 
very  fine ;  add  to  it  a  few  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  chopped  parsley  and 
some  melted  butter.    Moisten  with  milk  to  make  a  soft  paste,  and 


222  EGGS. 

half-fill  some  -patty  pans  or  scallop  shells  with  the  mixture.  BreaK 
an  egg  carefully  on  each,  and  put  a  pinch  of  salt  on  them  and  sprinkle, 
cracker  dust  oyer  this.  Place  the  shells  in  a  pan,  and  put  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  and  bake  until  the  white  is  set. 

Columbus  Eggs. — Peel  the  shells  from  a  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  cut  each  egg  in  two  around  the  centre,  cutting  off  also  a  little 
piece  from  one  end  so  that  they  can  stand  on  end  as  did  the  famous 
egg  which  Columbus  handled;  pulverize  the  yolks  and  mix  with  some 
finely  minced  chicken,  smoked  tongue  or  lean  ham ;  moistening  with, 
a  little  fresh  butter  or  vinegar,  and  seasoning  to  the -taste  with  salt, 
pepper  and  mustard.  Fill  with  this  the  empty  whites,  taking  care 
not  to  break  them ;  press  the  two  parts  together  and  stand  on  a  plat- 
ter so  that  they  will  have  the  appearance  of  eggs  that  have  not  been 
dissected.  The  filling  which  remains  over  and  above  the  capacity  of 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  accommodate  may  be  made  into  a  dressing, 
by  adding  a  little  vinegar  to  it  and  pouring  over  the  eggs.  If  no 
sauce  is  used,  set  each  egg  in  one  of  the  inside  leaves  of  lettuce. 

Egg  Baskets. — Boil  eggs  hard,  shell  and  cut  neatly  in  half.  Re- 
move the  yolks  and  rub  them'  to  a  paste  with  melted  butter,  pepper' 
and  salt.  Chop  very  fine  the  meat  of  cold  fowl,"ham,  dried  beef  or 
veal,  and  mix  with  the  egg  paste.  Cut  off  a  slice  from  the  hollow 
white  to  make  them  stand,  fill  with  the  paste,  arrange  close  together 
on  a  flat  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  gravy  heated  boiling  hot,  or  cream 
sauce.  If  to  be  served  with  cold  meats,  omit  the  gravy  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  Nice  for  lunch  or  parties.  Potted  ham  and  tongue 
that  comes  put  up  in  small  tins  also  make  a  very  nice  force-meat  for 
stuffing  eggs.  After  the  eggs  are  filled  some  fasten  together  the  two 
halves  with  Japanese  toothpicks,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry-  a  light 
brown,  but  this  is  not  necessary. 

Stuffed  Eggs. — Cut  6  hard-boiled  eggs  in  two,  lengthwise,  and, 
removing  the  yolks,  chop  them  fine,  then  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  cream,  and  very  little  finely-choppeid  onion ;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  mix  all  together,  and,  after  filling  the  white  of  the 
egg  with  the  mixture,  put  them  together  with  Japanese  toothpicks. 

Sala;d  EggStT-Boil  6  eggs  20  minutes.  Drop  them  into  cold 
water  before  removing  the  shells.  Cut  into  halves,  remove  the  yolks 
and  rub  smooth  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  musr 
tard  and  salt.  Add  vinegar  until  soft,  and  put  back  into  the  whites 
again. 


EGGS.  ,  223 

Fricasseed  Eggs. — Boil  6  eggs  for  15  minutes.  Remove  the 
shells,  take  out  the  yolks,  cut  the  whites  into  dice.  Put  a  teaspoon* 
ful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  set  on  the  fire  to  melt.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  fltour,  stir  until  brown,  thin  with  a  teacupful  of  cream, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  yolks ;  let  stand  1  minute  and 
serve  very  hot.     Milk  can  be  used  instead  of  egg. 

Poached  Eggs,  Spanish  Style.— 'Heat  an  earthen  pan  slowly, 
and  melt  in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
smaller  quantity  of  pepper,  and  a  small  onion  minced  very  fine ;  or, 
instead  of  the  onion,  use  parsley  and  sweet  herbs  or  a  combincition  of 
all  together.  Drop  in  the  eggs  1  at  a  time;  do  not  stir,  but  let  them 
brown  a  little ;  turn  carefully  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  In  Spain 
and  Mexico  they  are  served  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  cooked  and 
as  hot  as  possible. 

Spanish  Scrambled  Eggs. — Cut  Up  2  fresh  tomatoes  with  half 
an  onion  chopped  very  fine.  Cook  with  a  little  butter  and  pepper 
and  salt  till  the  onion  is  cooked,  but  not  browned.  Add  4  beaten 
eggs,  and  stir  constantly  till  the  eggs  are  well  set.  Serve  with  little 
pieces  of  fried  bread  around  the  dish. 

Egg  Wests. — Beat  whites  of  4  eggs  stiff.  Toast  4  slices  of  bread, 
dip  them  quickly  in  hot  water,  and  spread  lightly  with  butter.  Pile 
the  whites  on  toast  in  shape  of 
nest ;  place  a  yolk  in  the  centre 
of  each,  and  bake  3  minutes. 
Season  whites  with  a  little  salt 
before  beating.     Very  nice.  Sensible  Egg  Whip. 

Pickled  Eggs. — Boil  hard,  remove  the  shell  and  cover  with  boil- 
ing hot  vinegar.  Let  it  stand  12  hours,  and  they  are  ready  for  use. 
Some  cut  the  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise,    Nice  for  picnics,  lunch,  etc. 

Curried  Eggs. — Boil  4  eggs  half  an  hour,  remove  the  shells  and 
slice  eggs  into  a  shallow  dish ;  fry  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  being  careful  not  to  burn ;  add  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder, 
pour  on  slowly  1  cup  of  milk,  season  with  salt  i  and  pepper  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  simmer  until  onions  are  soft, 
then  pour  the  mixture  over  the  sliced  eggs,  cover  with  a  layer  ot 
bread  crumbs,  brown  in  the  oven  and  serve  hot. 


224  EGGS. 

Soft  Egff  Curry. — Melt  1}4  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pan  with  a 
Amall  onion  cut  into  rings;  as  the  latter  browns  add  ateaspoonful  of 
curry  powder.  Beat  gradually,  stirring  occasionally  for  nearly  an 
hour ;  then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  a  good  pinch  of  minced 
parsley.  Stir  for  2  or  3  minutes  and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs.    Just  before  serving  add  the  whites  beaten  quite  stiff. 

DeTiled  Eggrs. — Remove  the  shells  from  hard-boiled  eggs ;  cut 
about  one-third  from  the  small  end  of  each.  Take  out  the  yolks, 
mash  with  the  pieces  of  whites  and  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper, 
mustard,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  (salad  oil  if  preferred),  and 
a  little  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  fill  into  the  cavities  left  by  the 
yolks.  Fill  it  all  in,  heaping  each  egg  up  well.  Set  each  one  on  a 
lettuce  leaf,  and  stand  close  together  on  a  pretty  flat  dish.  Very 
ornamental  for  lunch  or  evening  party.  Cut  off  a  slice  from  the 
whites  that  they  may  stand  firmly. 

Egg  Vermicelli.— Boil  .6  eggs  20  minutes.  Make  1  pint  of  eream 
sauce,  to  which  add  whites  of  eggs,  cut  up  in  fine  pieces.  Place  6 
slices  of  toast  on  a  platter,  on  which  pour  the  cream  sauce  nicely 
seasoned.  Rub  yolk»  through  a  strainer  over  the  sauce  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Cupped  Eggs. — f'*it  a  Spoonful  of  good,  highly-seasoned  brown 
gravy  into  each  cup,  and  set  the  cups  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water. 
When  the  gravy  has  become  thoroughly  heated  drop  a  fresh  egg  into 
each  cup.  Take  off  the  saucepan  and  cover  it  "until  the  eggs  are 
tenderly  cooked,  put  on  pepper  and  salt  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter, 
covered  with  a  napkin. 

Breakfatit  Custards. — Butter  6  custard  cups  and  fill  lightly  with 
soft  bread  crUmbs  and  any  nice  cold  meat,  chopped  fine,  with  plenty 
of  savory  seasoning,  such  as  the  family  like,  half  and  half.  Beat  3 
eggs;  add  1  cupful  milk,  pour  into  the  cups,  using  more  milk  if 
required;  set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake  (or  steam)  until 
firm  in  the  centre.  Serve  in  the  cups,  or  turn  out  on  a  platter..  These 
savory  custards  are  delicious  made  entirely  out  of  bread  crumbs  and 
seasonings,  omitting  the  meat 

;  Sour  Eggs  (German  Style). — One  tablespoonful  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  flour  stirred  into  the  butter  in  a  hot  saucepan  until  well 
browned,  half  teacup  vinegar  filled  up  with  water.  Salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.    Pour  into  the  browned  flour  and  let  boil  up.    Break  the 


EGGS.  225 

eggs  in,  one  at  a  time,  until  the  pan  is  full.  Baste  the  top  with  this 
gravy  until  the  eggs  are  cooked,  either  hard  or  soil,  according  to  the 
taste. 

Honeycomb  Eggs.— We  have  an  excellent  recipe  for  a  breakfast 
dish  of  eggs,  which  is  as  follows :  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  into  a  dish,  set  in  the  oven  to  heat.  Break  six  eggs  into  a  bowl; 
add  one-third  teacupful  sweet  cream,  heat  well;  add  a  little  salt. 
Pour  into  the  hot  dish  with  the  butter;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  16 
minutes,  or  until  it  is  all  light  and  like  honeycomb. 

Eggs  a  la  Mode. — Soak  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  pint  of  milk. 
Beat  8  eggs  very  light,  add  the  soaked  bread  crumbs,  and  heat  5 
minutes.  Have  ready  a  saucepan  In  which  are  heated  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter ;  pour  in  the  mixture,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  stir 
briskly  for  3  minutes ;  serve  on  squares  of  buttered  toast. 

Egga  on  Bice. — Butter  a  baking  dish  and  fill  it  three-quarters  full" 
of  cold  rice  which  was  seasoned  with  salt  and  butter  when  boiled. 
Make  as  many  depressions  in  the  rice  as  there  are  persons  to  be 
served.     Break  an  egg  into  each  depression,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
strew  with  bits  of  butter.     Bake  until  the  eggs  are  set.    Serve  hot. 

Ham  and  Eggs  Baked. — Half  pound  of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 
and  half  pound  of  lean,  minced  meat,  mix,  moisten  with  a  little  water 
and  butter.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  broad  shallow  baking  dish.  Make 
little  depressions  in  it,  and  break  an  egg  in  each  deprejssion.  Bake  a 
pale  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Minced  Eggs. — Chop  up  4  or  5  hard-boiled,  not  too  fine.  Put 
over  the  fire  in  a  suitable  dish  a  cupful  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  some  savory  chopped  fine.  When  this 
comes  to  a  boil,  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  floiir  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk.  When  it  is  cooked  smooth  like  cream,  put  in 
the  eggs,  stir  until  heated  through,  and  serve.  Any  particular  flavor 
may  be  given  to  this  dish  by  adding  minced  mushrooms,  truffles 
catsup,  essence  of  shrimps,  etc. 

Beauregard  Eggs. — Five  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  5 
squares  of  toast,  half  pint  of  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  the  eggs  with  boiling  water  and 
boil  for  20  minutes.  Take  off  their  shells,  chop  the  whites  fine  and 
rub  the  yolks  through  a  sieve.  Do  not  mix  them.  Now  put  the 
milk  on  to  boil,  rub  tiie  butter  and  corn-starch  together,  and  add  to 

COOK— 16 


226  EGGS. 

the  boiling  milk.  Now  add  the  whites,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the 
toast  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  this  white  sauce,  then  the 
layer  of  the  yolks,  then  the  remainder  of  the  whites.  Sprinkle  the 
top  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Stand  in  the  oven  for  a  minute  or 
two  and  serve. 

Breaded  Eggs. — Boil  hard  and  cut  in  round,  thick  slices.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  and-salt.  Dip  each  in  beaten  raw  egg,  then  in  fine 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  butter.  Drain  free  from  grease,  and 
serve  with  a  sauce  made  by  boiling  up  together  a  cup  of  broth,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  adding  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 

Omelets. 

A  separate  pan  should  be  kept  for  omelets,  that  it  may  be  always, 
bright  and  smooth,  and  turn  easily.  If  you  have  no  omelet-pan,  or 
no  convenience  for  drying  the  omelet  in  the  oven,  use  a  smooth  iron^ 
spider  or  frying-pan  with  a  tin  cover,  and  double  the  quantities  given. 
Heat  the  pan  and  cover  very  hot*  Butter  the  pan,  turn  in  the  mix- 
ture, cover  it,  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  5  minutes,  or 
till  firm.  Fold  as  usual.  Omelets  should  be  only  slightly  browned. 
A  pinch  of  powdered  sugar  and  another  of  corn-starch,  beaten  in  with 
the  yolks  of  eggs,  will  keep  an  omelet  from  collapsing.  A  very  little 
baking-powder  (about  half  a  teaspoonful  to  a  6-egg  omelet),  renders 
it  less  likely  to  fall.  Omelets  should  be  served  and  eaten  immediately. 

Omelet,  Plain. — Break  all  the  eggs  in  one  dish.  To  every  3 
eggs  put  1  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  or  rnilk.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  pan.  When  it  is  very  hot 
turn  in  the  eggs.  When  it  is  cooked  on  one  side,  put  the  pan  in 
the  oven  to  brown  the  other.  Or  when  the  first  side  is  done,  loosen, 
place  a  plate  over  it  and  turn  the  omelet  out  upon  it.  Double  it 
together  and  serve.  May  he  served  miii  cream  sauce.  (See  directions.) - 

Foam  Omelet.-^Beat  separately  the  whites  and  yolks  of  6  eggs. 
Mix  the  yolks  with  6  teaspoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  half  a  pint  of  milk; 
salt  and  pepper— to  taste.  Pour  on  griddle  where  a  little  butter  has 
been  heated.  Have  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  the 
yolks  are  set  pour  the  whites  on  and  turn  or  fold  half  way  over. 
Serve  at  once. 

Parsley  Omelet. — Four  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  chopped  parsley.    Beat  the  eggs  lightly  togethesj  «prin- 


EGGS.  227 

kle  in  the  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  the  butter  quite  hot  in  the 
pan  to  keep  the  mixture  from  burning.  As  soon  as  the  edges  are 
set,  fold  over,  cook  lightly  for  a  moment,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve.    A  little  grated  ham  may  be  added  if  liked. 

Bread  Omelet. — Pour  1  teacup  of  boiling  milk  over  1  teacup  of 
bread  crumbs.  Let  stand  until  soft.  Break  6  eggs  in  bowl.  Stir 
(not  beat)  till  well  mixed,  then  add  the  bread  and  milk;  mix  well; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  into  a  hot  skillet  into  which  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter  has  been  melted.  Fry  slowly,  cut  in 
squares,  turn,  fry  to  a  delicate  brown  and  serve  at  once.  Milk  may 
be  used  to  soak  the  crumbs  instead  of  water.  Crackers  are  some- 
times used  instead  of  bread  crumbs. 

Cheese  Omelet. — Beat  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  add  5 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  *  Then  beat  the  whites  very 
stiff  and  gently  stir  them  into  the  yolks.  Butter  a 
large  spider  and  heat  it,  then  pour  the  mixture  in,  cover 
tightly  and  cook  slowly  until  brown  on  the  bottom;, set 
in  the  oven  a  minute  to  dry  the  top,  then  sprinkle 
one-half  cup  of  cheese  on  it.  Fold  together  and  serve 
at  once.  Stir  the  cheese  in  with  the  milk  and  eggs 
and  cook  with  the  omelet,  if  desired,  instead  of  just 
folding. 

Oyster  Omelet. — Take  12  large  oysters,  6  eggs,  1 
cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  chopped  parsley,  salt 
and  pepper.     Leave  the  oysters  Whole,  drain  and  fry  I 
lightly  in   a  kittle   butter.      Keep  them  hot.     When 
the   omelet  is  done   on   one  side,  lay  the  hot  oysters      Dover 
on,  and  fold  the  omelet  over.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish.         Egg-Beater. 

Codfish  Omelet. — Beat  4  eggs  very  light,  add  a  small  cup  of 
freshened  codfish,  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  in  pan  with  plenty  of 
butter.  Fold  and  place  in  hot  oven  5  minutes.  Serve  with  or  with- 
out cream  sauce. 

Cream  Sauce :  One  pint  of  rich  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch, 1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  part  of 
the  milk.    Stir  together  and  let  boil  up,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Hash  Omelet. — Make  a  fine  mince  of  any  kind  of  cold  meat  or 
fowl.     Put  over  the  fire  with  iust  enough  milk  or  water  to  moisten 


228  EGGS. 

slightly,  and  stir  until  very  hot.  In  the  meantime  have  the  omelet 
made  after  any  plain  i^ule,  and  as  soon  as  jdone  on  side,  place  the  hot 
minced  meat  over  it  and  fold.  A  nice  economical  breakfast  or  lunch 
dish. 

Asparagrns  Omelet. — Cut  cold,  cooked  asparagus  in  inch  pieces 
and  set  in  a  covered  earthen  dish  in  hot  water,  to  be  heated  thoroughly 
through,  but  not  to  cook.  Season  it  slightly  again.  Make  a  nice 
omelet  with  4  eggs ;  put  a  cupful  of  the  heated  asparagus  in  it;  fold 
it  and  serve  it  at  once.  Make  as  many  omelets  as  the  asparagus 
requires,  but  do  not  attempt  to  make  any  larger  ones  than  4  eggs 
will  make. 

Tomato  Omelet. — Strain  one-half  can  of  stewed  tomatoes  through 
a  fine  sieve;  mix  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  4  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
bake  brown,  in  a  buttered  pan.  Fresh  tomatoes  can  be  used  by  stew- 
ing a&d  beating  fine,  when  the  eggs,  etc.,  can  be  stirred  in,  in  the 
same  proportions.  A  pinch  of  soda  should  be  added  to  the  tomatoes 
to  correct  the  acidity. 

Potato  Omelet. — ^Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  cold 
mashed  potatoes,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  little 
salt  and  some  chopped  parsley;  mix  and  pour  into  a  hot  buttered  pan, 
brown  it  lightly  and  serve  hot.     Same  as  an  egg  omelet. 

Cauliflower  Omelet. — One  cup  cold  boiled  cauliflower,  sauce 
included,  chopped  into  small  pieces;  4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  corn- 
starch; beat  eggs  thoroughly,  add  cauliflower  and  cook  as  other 
omelets. 

Cabbage  Omelet. — Make  same  as  Cauliflower — either  makes  a 
nice  side  dish. 

Onion  Omelet. — Make  a  plain  omelet,  and  when  ready  to  turn 
spread  over  it  a  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped  onion  and  minced 
parsley ;  then  fold,  or,  if  prepared,  mix  the  minces  into  the  eggs 
before  cooking. 

Omelet  with  Peas. — Make  plain  omelet;  just  before  turning 
over  one-half  on  other  put  several  spoonfuls  of  cooked  peas  in 
center  before  omelet  is  lapped,  then  serve  with  peas  (without  juice) 
around  it. 

Omelet  with  Com. — Five  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  quarter  cup 

fine  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter;  pepper  and 


EGGS.  229 

salt  to  taste.  Soak  the  ci'umbs  in  milk  10  minutes;  beat  the  eggs 
very  light,  yolks  and  whites  separately;  stir  the  soaked  crumbs, 
milk,  butter  and  seasoning  into  the  yolks,  and  mix  the  whites  in 
lightly  and  add  a  cupful  of  canned  corn.  Pour  the  omelet  into  a 
frying  pan  containing  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  cook,  loosening 
it  constantly  from  the  bottom  with  a  knife  to  prevent  its  scorching. 
Double  over  and  serve  at  once. 

Spanish  Omelet. — Take  6  eggs,  1  medium-sized  tomato,  1  small 
onion,  1  dash  of  black  pepper,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  5  mush- 
rooms, one-quarter  pound  of  bacon,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Cut  the  bacon  into  very  small  pieces  and  fry  until  brown ;  then  add 
to  it  the  tomato,  onion  and  mushroom  chopped  fine ;  stir  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  give  them  12  vigorous 
beats  with  a  fork;  add  to  them  the  salt  and  pepper.  Now- put  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  a  smooth  frying  pan ;  turn  it 
around  so  as  to  grease  the  bottom  and  sides.  When  the  butter  is 
hot  pour  in  the  eggs  and  shake  over  a  quick  fire  until  they  are  set. 
Now  quickly  pour  the  iriixture  from  the  frying  pan  over  the  omelet, 
fold  it  over  once,  turn  out  in  the  center  of  a  heated  platter  and  serve 
immediately.     The  mushrooms  and  tomato  can  be  omitted  if  wished. 

Rice  Omelet. — One  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  1  cupful  of  warm 
milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix 
well  and  add  3  beaten  eggs.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying 
pan  and  when  it  bubbles  up  pour  in  the  omelet  and  set  the  pan  in  a 
hot  oven.  As  soon  as  it  is  done  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  fold  double, 
and  serve  at  once.  It  can  be  sprinkled  thickly  with  sugar  before  fold- 
ing, if  wished. 

Apple  Omelet. — An  apple  omelet  is  an  appetizing  luncheon  dish 
or  entree  at  dinner.  Stir  in  a  basin  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  sugar,  2  whole  eggs,  with  2  yolks  in  addi- 
tion, and  nearly  a  half  pint  of  milk.  Pare,  core,  quarter  and  mince 
4  good-sized  apples.  Saute  them  over  a  brisk  fire  in  very  hot  butter, 
shaking  them  well,  and  when  they  are  quite  hot  through,  pour  over 
them  the  above  mixture,  making  it  spread  all  over  the  bottom  of  the 
pan ;  prick  with  a  fork ;  add  (close  to  the  edges)  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  melted,  and  rock  the  pan  vigorously  to  prevent  sticking. 
When  it  can  be  loosened  from  the  pan  put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown  the 
top  slightly.    Slip  out  on  a  hot  pan  and  serve  hot. 


280  EGGS. 

Peacb  Omelet. — Beat  together  4  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  mifi^  and 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Fry  and  when  done  spread  with  peach 
preserves,  fold  and  serve  hot    A  dessert  dish. 

Strawberry  Omelet. — Wash  and  drain  in  a  colander  1  pipt  of 
strawberries ;  put  them  in  k  dish  with  fi  half  cup  of  sugar  and  set, 
thera  aside  until  the, omelet  is  made.  Ingredients  for 
the  omelet : — 6  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  mixed 
with  half  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  half  teaspopnful 
of  melted  butter  $nd  1  cup  of  milk.  Stir  the  yolks,  salt, 
powder  and  flour  together;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 
aiid  add  the  above  mixtiire  to  them,  stirring  constantly; 
put  a  large  frying  pan  or  omelet  panj  with  half  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  over  the  fire;  when  hot  pour  in  half  of  the 
omelet  mij^ture;  do  not  stir;  as  the  eggs  set  slip'abroad- 
bladed  knife  under  the  omelet  to  prevent  burning  on  the 

bottom  and  shake  the  pan  to  and  fro ;  when  the  under 

Measuring  ^^^^  *^  *  ^S^^  brown,  set  the  pan  of  omelet  for  a  few 
Glass  and  ttiin^tes  in  the  oven ;  then  scatter Jialf  the  strawberries 
Egg-beater  over  the  surface;  slip  the  broad-bladed  knife  under  one 
side  of  the  omelet  gnd  double  in  two,  inclosing  the  fruit ;  dust  over 
the  top  with  powdered  sugar  and  let  it  remain  in  the  oven  until  the 
next  one  is  baked  the  same  way ;  then  serve  at  once.  Sufficient  for 
a  family  of  six.     Nice  for"  dessert. 

Sweet  Omelet. — Beat  4  eggs  without  separsiting.  Add  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  warm  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Put  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  when  hot  turn  in  the 
eggs,  shake  until  set  in  the  bottom,  then,  with  a  limber  knife,  lift  the 
edge,  drain  the  soft  part  around  and  allow  to  run  under.  Dust  with 
a  very  little  salt  and  put  in  the  center  4  tablespoonfuls  of  jam.  Fold 
over  first  one  side,  then  the  other,  and  turn  on  a  heated  platter. 

Omelet  wltb  Jelly. — Beat  up  4  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Either  beat  eggs  separately  or  togetheir ; 
pan  must  be  very  hot  and  greased  with  melted  butter.  Turn  in  the 
pan;  when  brown  and  solid  spread  jelly  over  surface  and  fold,  turning 
over  sides  and  ends  as  delicately  as  possible.  Set  in  oven  for  a  few 
minutes.    A  dessert  dish. 


All  vegetabjes  shduld  be  put  in 
boiling  water  when  set  on  the  stove  to 
cook.  Peas,  asparagus,  potatoes  and  all  deli- 
cately flavored  vegetables  should  be  only  covered 
with  water,  but  those  with  a  strong  flavor,  like  carrots,  tur- 
nips, cabbage,  onions  and  dandelions,  sh6uld  be.  cooked  in 
a  generous  quantity  of  boiling  water.  All  green  vegetables  should 
be  cooked  with  the  cover  partially  off"  the  stewpan.  It  gives  them  a 
better  color  and  a  more  delicious  flavor.  The  average  housekeeper  is 
careless  as  to  the  time  of  cooking  vegetables,  yet  a  vegetable  is  as 
much  injured  by  too  much  or  too  littlfe  cooking  as  is  a  loaf  of  bread 
or  cake.  The  water  should  be  kept  boilii^  constantly  until  the  vege- 
tables are  done.  To  let  it  stop  renders  them  water-soaked  and  im- 
pairs the  flavor.  For  time  table  as  to  number  of  mjnutes  each  vege- 
table should  Cook,  see  page  233. 

Seasoning  "Vegetables. — Peas  and  beans,  as  they  are  specially 
lacking  in  fatty  substances,,  always  require  butter  in  their  dressing. 
Indeed,  almost  all  vegetable  foods  are  deficient  in  fat  and  would  be 
more  digestible  if  eaten  with  butter  or  oil.  Cabbage  and  lettuce,  as 
they  contain  alkalies,  need  an  acid  condiment,  while  beets,  turnips, 
squash  jmd  also  beans  and  peas  require  the  addition  of  sugar  to  make 
up  for  the  sweetness  lost  in  boiling.  In  cooking  greens  a  ham  bone 
will  be  found  to  supply  a  flavor  that  can  be  obtained  in  no  other  way, 
though  salt  pork  is  a  fairly  good  substitute.  Onion,  used  discreetly, 
is  a  great  addition  to  many  vegetable  dishes,  especially  if  prepared  in 
the  form  of  salads.  A  tiny  bit  of  chopped  onion  added  to  a  potato 
salad,  for  instance,  will  make  it  far  more  palatable,  while  lettuce  also 
profits  by  a  few  grated  shreds  of  the  same  vegetable  beaten  up  in 
French  dressing. 

,  A  small  handful  of  salt  in  the  water  potatoes  are  cooked  in  will 
render  them  mealy.  Old  or  poor  potatoes  are  improved  by  paring 
and  soaking  in  cold  water  for  some  time  before  boiling.  Watery 
potatoes  should  have  a  piece  of  lime  as  large  as  an  egg  put  in  the 
water  they  are  boiled  in.    Drain,  and  they  will  be  found  dry  and  mealy. 

231 


232 


VEGETABLES. 


Asparagus  that  is  young  and  tender  may  be  cooked  by  tying  in 
bunches  and  standing  up  in  boiling  water,  leaving  the  tops  to  cook 
by  steam.  Cover  the  stewpan  closely.  In  this  way  the  tops  will  not 
boil  to  pieces,  while  the  lower  part  of  the  stalks  is  still  hard. 

Silver  vegetable  dishes,  well  heated,  will  keep  food  warm  much 
longer  than  china.     Use  a  cloth  to  wash  the  potatoes  for  baking ;  it 

will  save  the  hands. 
The  skins  of  new 
pQtatoes  can  be  re- 
moved more  quickly 
with  a  stiff  vegetable 
brush  than  by  scrap- 
ing. In  any  of  the 
recipes  that  call  for 
parsley,  celery  may 
be  substituted -if  pre- 
ferred, and  to-many 
tastes  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne pepper  is  the 
finishing  touch,  and 
others  like,  enough 
Vegetable  Parer  and  Oorer.  onjon   to  make  the 

flavor  perceptible,  but  to  get  it  too  strong  is  worse  than  to  have  none 
at  all.  Given  the  basis  of  the  dish,  and  these  little  things  are  simply 
matters  of  taste.  Never  boil  potatoes  that  are  to  be  sliced  and  cooked 
again  until  they  are  quite  as  thoroughly  done  as  if  meant  to  be  used 
without  the  second  cooking.  Always  salt  potatoes  while  boiling. 
Drain ;  when  done,  remove  the  cover  and  shake  vigorously  in  the 
kettle  for  a  moment  and  the  potato  will  be  lighter  and  more  mealy. 

Boil  fresh,  young  vegetables  in  hard  water ;  a  little  salt  will  harden 
the  wafer  at  once.  Boil  dried  vegetables  in  soft  water ;  a  little  baking 
soda  will  soften  water,  and  is  useful  in  freshening  and  making  tender 
green  vegetables  that  are  a  little  old  or  not  wholly  fresh,  A  little 
sugar  is  an  improvement  to  beets,  turnips  and  squash. 

Canned  Vegetables. — Canned  vegetables,  such  as  peas,  beans, 
etc.,  are  safer  to  be  opened  and  turned  into  a  colander  and  a  cup  of: 
cold  water  turned  over  them  and  allowed  to  drain.    Even  with  toma- 
toes it  Is,  safe  to  do  this,  thus  removing  danger  of  lead  poisoning. 


VEGETABLES. 


233 


Time  Table  for  Cooking  Vegetables. 

All  green  vegetables  must  be  washed  thoroughly  in  cold  water, 
and  then  dropped  into  water  just  beginning  to  boil.  Most  of  them 
will  be  improved  by  having  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  added  to  the  water 
at  first.  The  time  for  boiling  each  is  as  follows: — White  potatoes, 
\  boiled,  30  minutes ;  white  potatoes,  baked,  45  minutes ;  sweet  potatoes, 
boiled,  45  minutes ;  sweet  potatoes,  baked,  60  minutes ;  green  peas, 
boiled,  20  to  40  minutes ;  shelled  beans,  boiled,\  60  minutes ;  string 
beans,  boiled,  1  to  2  hours ;  green  corn,  boiled,  25  to  60  minutes ; 
asparagus,  boiled,  15  to  30  minutes;  spinach,  boiled,  1  hour;  toma- 
toes, fresh,  1  hour;  tomatoes,  canned^  }4  hour;  cabbage,  ^  to  2 
hours ;  dandelion  greens,  2  to  3  hours ;  cauliflower,  1  to  2  hours ; 
beet  greens,  1  hour ;  onions,  1  to  2  hours ;  beets,  1  to  5  hours ;  yel- 
low turnips,  1^  to  2  hours;  parsnips,  1  to  2  hours;  carrots,  1  to  2 
hours ;  white  turnips,  45  to  60  minutes ;  dried  lima  beans,  2  hours 
(soak  over  ni^ht) ;  squash,  1  hour. 

Potatoes. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Wash  them  thoroughly,  put  into  a  hot  oven, 
bake  only  until  they  are  tender  enough  to  break  open  easily,  and 
serve  as  soon  as 
they  are  done; 
cover  them  only 
with  a  napkin  in 
sending  them  to 
the  table  and  re- 
member that  a 
baked  potato  is' 
never  so  nice  if  it 
is  allowed  to  stand 
before  it  is  eaten. 
About  45  minutes 
is  necessary.  Be 
sure  that  the  pota- 
toes are  dry  before 
putting  in  oven,  as 
Hhfiy  bake  quicker. 


Fruit  or  Vegetable  Presa' 


234  VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  Potatoes.— Peel,  remove  all'specks  and  lay  in  cold  water 
at  least  an  hour  before  using.  Allow  half  an  hour  for  the  boiling  of 
medium-sized  potatoes.  Putxoa  in  boiling  water,  having  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  to^^each  quart  Boil  steadily  covered,  but  never  furiously. 
Try  with  a  fork  and  when  done  drain  off  every  drop  of  water,  cover 
with  a  clean  cloth  and  dry  for  ten  minutes  at  the  back-  of  the  stove, 
shaking  the  saucepan  a  little  once  or  twice.  Good  potatoes  are  very 
nice  boiled  in  their  skins.  They  are  never  mealier  than  when  served 
in  this  style.     Peel  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Steamed  Potato^s.~^Pare  the  potatoes,  thirow  them  into  cold 
water  as  they  are  peeled,  then  put  them  in  a  steamer.  Place  the 
steamer  over  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  steam  the  potatoes  from 
20  to  40  minutes,  according  to  size  and  sort.  Serve  quickly.  They 
are  rendered  much  nicer  by  dotting  with  bit§^  of  butter,  sprinkling 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  placing  the  dish  containing  them  in  the 
oven  until  the  butter  melts.  To  make  them  still  more  tempting  pour 
a  cup  of  hot,  sweet  cream  over  them  just  before  serving. 

.  Browned  Potatoes. — Peel  and  bake  with  a  roast.  When  the 
meat  is  within  half  an  hour  or  so  of  being  ready,  lay  them  in  the 
gravy  iinder  it  and  bake  until  covered  with  a  crisp  brown  skin. 

Mashed  Potatoes.-^ Peel,  boil 
or  steam,  mash  or  whip  fine,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  butter,  moisten 
with  milk,  or  hot  water.  Hava 
the  milk  hot  and  dissolve  the  but- 
ter in  it.  White  pepper  is  nice  to 
Potato  Masher.  season  mashed  potato.    Hot  sweet 

cream  is  a  fine  addition  to  the  peri^ction  of  mashed  potatoes. 

Potatoes  a  la  Custard. — Peel  aod  boil  6  large  white  potatoes, 
drain  very  dry  and  make  smooth  and  creamy ;  season  with  salt,  pep>. 
per  and  butter  and  a  little  cream  ;  press  through  a  colander  into  thfe 
dish  into  which  they  are  to  be  served ;  move  the  colander  so  that  the 
little  bits  will '  fall  into  the  dish  evenly  and  as  light  as  snow  flakes. ; 
beat  1  egg  well,  and  add  1  gill  of  milk"  and  pour  over  top,  bake  15 
minutes.  It  should  look  like  a  golden-brown  custard  when  it  leaves 
the  oven,  -r^ 

Whipped  Potatoes. — Instead  of  mashing  in  the  ordinaiy  way, 
whip  with  a  fork  until  light  and  diy,  then  whip  in  a  little  melted  but- 


VEGETABLES. 


235 


ter,  some  ttiilk  and  salt  to  taste,  whipping  rapidly  until  creamy ;  pile 
as  lightly  and  irregularly  as  possible  in  a  hot  dish. 

Potato  Snow.— To  1  pint  hot  boiled  potatoes  add  1  teaspoonful 
•f  butter,  %  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  hot  cream  to 
moisten.  >  Mash  and  beat  until  light  and  creamy,  then  rub  through  a 
colander  into  a  hot  dish.  Do  not  touch  afterward  or  the  flakes  will 
fall,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible.  This  makes  a  very  pretty  and 
dainty  dish. 


i. 


The  Handy  Fryer. 

Fried  Kew  Potatoes. — Take  small  ones,  wash  and  scrape,  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  bring  them  to  a  boil,  drain,  wipe 
with  a  clean  cloth.  Put  potatoes  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in 
the  frying-pan  and  cook  20  minutes  ;  watch  them,  and  when  they  com- 
mence to  brown,  turn  theth  occasionally,  so  as  to  brown  alike  on  all 
sides.  Then  strain  off  the  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  in  a 
hot  dish. 

New  Potatoes  and  Peas. — Cook  small  new  potatoes  with  green 
peas,  and  season  as  usual  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  thickened 
cream  or  milk.     Very  nice. 

New  Potatoes  and  Cream. — Wash  and  rub  new  jpotatoes  with  a 
cloth  and  scrubbing  brush.  Boil  until  done.  In~a  saucepan  have 
hot  some  rich  milk,  seasoned  with  butter,  or,  better  still,  cream,  if 
convenient ;  add  a  little  green  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  drain  the  pota- 
toes, turn  over  them  this  sauce,  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil.  Serve 
very  hot.     Delicious. 

Saratoga  Chips. — If  possible  Use  a  cabbage  or  potato  cutter ;  if 
not,  slice  thin  with  a  sharp  knife.  Place  in  ice  water  an  hour  or 
longer,  and  then  wipe  on  a  clean  napkin.  Test  the  lard  by  dropping 
a  crust  of  bread  into  it,  and  if  it  colors  a  light  browft  at  once  it  is 
ready  for  the  potoitoes.  Drop  in  about  a  dozen  slices  at  once,  keep- 
ing them  apart  With  the  ladle,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  a  light  yellow 


236  VEGETABLES. 

take  out,  as  they  turn  darker  after  being  taken  from  the  lard  Place 
the  fried  chips  on  heavy  brown  paper,  and  it  will  absorb  all  the  fat 
that  clings  to  them.  These  may  be  prepared  several  hours  before  if 
kept  in  a  dry,  warm  place,  such  as  a  kitchen  closet.  Salt  while  hot. 
Some  cooks  like  the  flavor  obtained  by  sprinkling  chopped  parsley 
over  them.  A  quantity  can  be  prepared  at  once,  as  they  can  be 
warmed  in  the  oven.     Suitable  for  luncheons  and  to  serve  with  fish. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. — Peel  potatoes  and  cut  in  strips  ^  inch 
thick  or  thinner;  throw  into  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes;  put  in  an 
iron  skillet,  in  which  has  been  put  enough  boiling  lard  to  cover  them. 
When  brown — a  yellow  brown — dip  out  by  means  of  a  skimmer-,  so 
as  to  remove  all  grease  possible.  Sprinkle  with  salt  while  hot,  drain 
on  soft  paper,  and  serve  atx)nce. 

Potato  Ribbons. — Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  taking  out  the 
eyes  and  all  specks.    Then  peel  into  very  thin  ribbons.     Place  them 
in  a  frying  basket,  and  cook  in  boiling  fat  5  or  6  minutes,  sprinkle  - 
with  salt  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Potato  Rings. — Peel  potatoes  and  cut  them  round,  as  you  would 
pare  apples.  Fry  in  hot  lard  like  fritters  till  brown,  sprinkle  salt  over 
them,  and  serve. 

Custard  Potatoes. — Mash  potatoes  without  milk,.simply  putting 
in  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Now  put  through  a  potato  sieve  (or  a 
colander  will  answer  the  purpose) ;  leave  the  flakes  as  they  fall,  and 
pour  over  them  an  egg  beaten  with  a  gill  of  milk.  Hake  for  about  15 
minutes.  When  put  through  the  sieve,  let  drop  into  an  earthen  dish 
that  will  stand  the  heat,  and  can  be  sent  to  the  table  just  as  baked. 
If  more  than  6  potatoes  are  cooked,  more  milk  and  egg  will  be 
needed. 

Texas  Potatoes. — Boil  white  potatoes,  mash,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Mince  a  large  onion  fine;  mix  through  the 
potatoes.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  smooth  over  the  top,  dot  with  bits 
of  butter.     Put  in  an  oven  and  brown  nicely. 

Sweet  Potatoes  Boiled,  or  Steamed. — Wash  carefully  and  cook 
with  their  jackets  on.  Peel  before  sending  to  the  table.  Scrape  ofl 
the  peeling.  The  same  rules  given  for  boiling  or  steaming  white 
potatoes  will  answer  for  the  sweet  variety. 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes.— ^Boil,  peel  while  hot,  cut  in  halves, 
arrange  in  a  dripping  pan>  put  in  tibe  oven.     In  a  few  minutes  baste 


VEGETABLES.  237 

with  a  little  melted  butter  to  make  them  brown  faster.    Serve  hot. 
Cold  potatoes  can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Sweet  Potato  Cakes. — Take  the  inside  of  sweet  potatoes  left 
from  dinner,  form  into  small  round  cakes,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  brown 
in  butter.     This  is  one  of  the  ways  to  use  cold  baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Green  Oom. 

Boiled  Green  Corn. — Corn  boiled  on  the  ear  is  always  the 
prime  favorite.  Take  short,  full  ears  and  plunge  into  boiling  salted 
water.  Cook  for  20  minutes,  and  if  young  and  tender  it  will  be  done. 
Drain;  lay  a  napkin  in  a  dish,  put  in  the  corn  and  fold  the  corners 
over.  Serve  with  pepper,  butter  and  salt.  Many  cooks  think  the 
corn  much-  sweeter  if  cooked  in  the  husks.  Take  off.  all  save  the 
last  thin  layers.  Turn  this  back  and  remove  the  silk;  fold  it  again 
over  the  corn  and  cook  as  above.  When  done  remove  the  husks 
and  serve  as  before.  The  husks  may  have  to  be  tied  at  the  ends  to 
keep  them  over  the  ears  of  corn. 

Boiled  Corn  a  la  Oriental. — One  of  the  chifs  of  a  famous  hotel 
boils  corn  after  this  fashion  :  "  I  strip  the  corn  of  all  the  husks,  and 
placing  it  in  a  porcelain  or  agate  kettle,  I  cover  it  with  sweet  milk 
and  let  it  boil  15  to  20  minutes,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve.  I  never 
put  a  drop  of  water  oi^^  corn."  Still  another  one  boils  corn  in  one- 
third  hot  milk  and  two-thirds  hot  water.  -      / 

Baked  Com. — Cut  green  corn  from  the  cob,  place  it  in  a  baking 
dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Add  milk  enough 
to  cover  and  bake  in  an  oven  one-half  hour. 

Baked  Canned  Corn. — Take  1  can  of  corn  and  pour  in  a  shallow 
dish;  then  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  1  egg  beaten  well  to  a 
pint  of  milk;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  then  put  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  in  the  center,  and  bake  30  minutes. 

Fried  Corn. — ^An  easily  prepared  and  palatable  way  is  to  grate 
the  corn  from  a  dozen  fresh,  tender  ears,  season  it  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cook  it  with  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  being  care- 
ful that  it  gets  no  scorching.  A  little  sweet  cream  may  be  added 
before  serving. 

Escalloped  Com. — Take  fresh  picked  com,  cut  it  from  the  cob; 
grease  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  a  layer,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it  and 
bits  of  butter,  then  put  on  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  pour  over  a 


238  VEGETABLES. 

little  milk  and  fill .  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  corn  and  cracker 
crumbs,  with  cracker  for  top  layer  and  plenty  of  milk  over  the 
whole.     Cover  closely  and  bake  1  hour. 

Stewed  Corn. — Shavethe  corn  from  the  ear,  being  careful  not  to . 
cut  into  the  cob;  to  each  pint  of  corn  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Just  cover 
with  water  and  cook  for  an  hour;  stir- 
ring often;  or  if  a  double  boiler  is  used 
it  will  require  less  attention,  but  should 
be  cooked  2  hours.  If  the  corn  be- 
tender,  less  time  will  do.  Just  before 
serving  add  half  a  cup  of  cream  for 
,  each  pint  of  corn,  thickening  with  a 

om     ra  er.  teaspoonful  of  flour.     Or  the  dressing 

may  be  of  milk,  and  just  before  serving  add  2  or  3  well  beaten  eggs. 
If  liked,  stewed  tomatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  milk  dressing. 
The  latter  is  especially  good  with  roast  beef. 

Succotash. — Three-quarts  of  wateir,  1  dozen  ears  of  young, 
milky  corn,  one  quart  of  shelled  beans,  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  salt  pprk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Remove  thfe  raw  corn  from 
the  cob  byxutting  through  each  row  of  kcrnfils  with  the  point  of  a 
sharp  knife,  then  with  the  back  of  the  knife  press  out  the  pulp, 
leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  Eut  three-quarters  of  water  in  a  kettle 
large- enough  to  hold  the  soup,  put  in  the  cobs  (from  which  the  corn' 
has  been  scraped),  and  boil  15  minutes.  Take  out  the  cobs  and  put 
in  the  beans  and  pork  and  boil  islowly  2^  hours,  or  till  the  beans 
are  perfectly  tender.  Then  add  the  scraped  corn  and  boil  15  min- 
utes longer ;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  add  a  littlfe  pepper  if  you  like ; 
turn  into  a  tureen  and  serve.  This  is  the  genuine  New  England 
succotash.  Serve  the  pork  on  a  platter.  It  should  be  streaked  a 
little  with  lean. 

tdma  Bieans  and  Com.— Boil  a  pint  of  shelled  beans  in  water 

just  to  cover  for  10  or  15  minutes.     Cut  corn  from  half  a  dozen  ears, 

and  add  to  the  beans ;  boil  20  minutes  or  ^  an  hour,  adding  hot 

water  as  needed  to  keep  from  burning.     Season  and  add  2  table- 

,  spoonfuls  of  butter. 

Scalloped  Green  Com  and  Tomatoes. — Take  green  corn  cut  from 
the  cob,  season  with  some  fat  pork  chopped  very  fine,  pepper,  salt  and 


VEGETABLES.  239 

sugar.  Let  the  top  layer  be  tomatoes,  butter  and  season,  sift  grated 
bread  crumbs  over  it  to  brown  the  scallop.  Bake  covered  %  an 
hour ;  uncover  and  leave  in  the  oven  aa  much  longer.  This  time  is 
for  a  large  dishful. 

Com  Gollops. — Take  equal  parts  of  boiled  corn  cut  on  the  cob 
and  cold  potatoes  sliced;  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  butter;  season  toi 
taste. 

Goru  Oysters. — One  dozen  ears  of  corn,  not  too  ripe ;  draw  a 
sharp  knife  through  each  row  of  kernels,  then  scrape  into  an  earthen 
bowl  ;  add  one  freslj  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  beat  thoroughly, 
drop  in  separate  tablespoonfuls  into  boiling  lard;  fry  till  brown. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter. - 

Com  Cbowder. — Fry  out  3  slices  of  good,  fat,  salt  pork ;  remove 
the  pork,  and  slice  3  good-sized  onions  in  the  fat  and  fry  till  browned ; 
add  3  pints  of  water  and  1  quart  of  sliced  potatoes  ;  put  in  1  can  of 
sweet  corn ;  when  the  potatoes  are  done,  pepper  and  sqlt  to  taste.  If 
too  thick  add  a  little  boiling  water.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes  before 
serving. 

Green  Corn  Pudding'.-'-Draw  a  sharp  knife  through  each  row  of 
corn  lejigthwise,  thpn  scrape  out  the  pulp ;  to  1  pint  of  the  corn  add 
1  quart  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  sugar  to  taste.  Stir 
it  occasionally  until  thick,  and  bake  about  2  hours.  If  canned  corn 
is  used,  mash  it  a  little. 

Green  Com  Griddle  Cakes. — 12  ears  of  corn  grated,  3  eggs,  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  half  teaspoonful 
salt,  mix  and  bake  on  a  griddle. 

Winter  Succotasli. — One  pint  dried  sweet  corn,  1  pint  dried  Lima 
beans ;  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  cook  separately  until  partly 
done.  Skim  out  the  beans  and  put  with .  tlie  corn,  cook  until  done, 
adding  what  water  is  necessary ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
White  beans  can  be  used.  In  this  case  add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  the 
water  in  which  the  beans  are  first  cooked.  If  canned  corn  is  taken, 
it  will  not  be  necessary  to  put  it  in  until  16  or  20  minutes  before  the 
beans  are  cooked. 

Com  for  Winter. — Cut  corn  from  the  ear  .md  pack  in  an  earthen 
jar  in  layers,  sprinkling  salt  thickly  over  each  layer,  1  quart  of  corn 
and  1  handful  of  s^lt  being  about  the  correct  proportion.  Alternate 
the  corn  and  5a,lt  until  the  jar  is  full,  having  the  top  one  salt ;  tfdver 


240  VEGETABLES. 

and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Will  keep  a  year.  Corn  should  be  soft  and 
milky.  In  freshening,  drop  the  corn  into  boiling  water  and  instantly 
skim  out.  This  sets  the  milk.  It  may  then  be  freshened  in  as  many 
waters  as  necessary.  Cook  slowly;  season  to  suit,  and  add  a  little 
white  sugar. 

Dried  Corai.-^— Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  dry  in  the  oven. 
Spread  1  inch  deep  in  the  pan  and  stir  often  to  prevent  scorching. 
This  will  be  found  better  than  cooking  the  corn  before  cutting  from 
th^  ear.  If  the  corn  is  too  old  for  roasting  ears,  draw  the  point  of  a 
sharp  knife  through  each  row  of  kernels  and  scrape  out  the  pulp  vjrith 
the  back  of  the  knife.  Put  in  a  bag  and  hang  in  a  dry,  cool  place  to 
keep. 

To  Cook. — Soak  over  night  and  simmer  gently  an  hour  or  more. 
Season  with  butter,  salt,  cream  and  a  little  sugar.  If  milk  is  used, 
roll  the  bits  of  butter  in  flour  to  supply  a  slight  thickening.  Cream 
or  milk  may  be  omitted  if  not  liked. 

Hulled  Com  or  Hominy. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  soda  (baking) 
to  1  quart  of  carefully  picked-over  white  field  porn.  Let  soak  over 
night  in  just  water  enough. to  cover  it.  Boil  in  the  morning  until  the 
hulls  come  off,  adding  more  water  if  necessary,  but  only  a  little  at  a 
time,  so  as  not  to  dilute  the  lye.  It  will  take  about  2^  hours'  brisk 
^boiling  to  dissolve  the  hull.  Drain  off  the  lye,  and  fill  the  kettle 
with  cold  (not  hot)  water.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  keep  it  boil- 
ing an  hour;  then  drain  off  the  water  and  fill  the  kettle  again  with 
cold  water  and  boil  as  before.  Do  the  same  thing  a  third  time,  only 
after  filling  the  kettle  a  third  time  continue  to  boil  the  corn  until  it  is 
tender,  season  with  salt  and  setye  with  milk  and  sugar  or  fry.  The 
dish  pays  for  the  trouble  in  making  it 

Boiled  Hominy.— ^ake  a  pint  of  hominy,  pour  cold  water  over 
it,  stir  and  let  it  settle.  Then  pour  off  the  water.  Do  this  twice ; 
then  put  it  to  soak  in  3  pints  of  water  or  milk  over  night  In  the 
morning,  put  it  over  to  cook  in  a  double  boiler,  add  a  little  salt,  and 
stir  often.  If  it  becomes  so  thick  as  not  to  stir  easily,  add  more 
water  or  milk.  It  should  be  just  thick  enough  to  settle  down  smooth 
in  a  deep  dish.  Fine  hominy  will  cook  in  2  hours,  the  coarse  re- 
quires 3.  It  is  very  nice  eaten  warm  with  cream  and  sugar.  It  can 
iae  cooked  in  all  water  or  milk  and  water  half  and  half.  It  is  nice 
served  hot  as  a  vegetable  to  be  eaten  with  meat  and  gravy. 


VEGETABLES.  241 


Tomatoes. 


To  Peel  Tomatoes.— Cover  them  with  boiling  water  half  a  minute, 
then  lay  them  in  cold  water  till  they  are  perfectly  cold,  when  the  skin 
can  be  slipped  off  without  difficulty,  leaving  the  tomatoes  unbroken 
and  as  firm  as  before  they  were  scalded. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.— Peel  and  slice  the  required  quantity  of  toma- 
,  toes,  stew  in  a  granite  or  porcelain  saucepan  for  one-half  hour.  (Do 
not  use  tin  or  i^on  to  cook  tomatoes.)  Thicken  with  crumbed  bread 
or  rolled  cracker.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  A  little 
sugar  is  an  improvement  for  most  persons,  but  unless  acquainted  with 
every  one's  taste  it  is  well  to  permit  each  person  to  add  sugar  to  suit 
his  individual  taste.  Some  -cooks  do  not  thicken  with  bread  or 
crackers,  simply  reason.  Some  add  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce ;  some  add  a  little  curry  powder.  Others  like  an  onion  cut  up 
and  stewed  with  the  tomato. 

Canned  Tomatoes  are  to  be  prepared  the  same  way,  but  need  only 
to  cook  a  short  time.  One  economical  housewife  suggests  that  a  ten 
cent  can  of  tomatoes  stewed  with  plenty  of  bread  will  make  sufficient 
to  serve  twice  for  a  family  of  six,  adding  to  the  usual  seasoning  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to  supply  a  little  acid  and  prevent  insipidity. 

Escaloped  Tomatoes. — Butter  an  earthen  dish,  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  tomatoes,  fresh  or  canned  (without  skins),  then  cover  with  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs,  or  rolled  crackers,  add  a  little  butter,  salt  and 
pepper ;  repeat  this  process  until  dish  is  full,  then  bake  1  hour  in  hot 
oven;  1  small-sized  onion,  chopped  fine,  may  be  added,  if  desired,  to 
advantage.  Have  the  cracker  crumbs  for  the  top  layer  and  dot  it  with 
bits  of  butter ;  a  little  sugar  sprinkled  over  each  layer  is  an  improve- 
ment to  most  persons. .  Some  cooks  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  to 
each  layer. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Thfte  are  a  pleasant  variation.  Slice  fresh 
tomatoes  and  spread  in  layers,  with  salt,  pepper,  curry-powder,  sugar 
and  butter,  and  lastly  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  until  tomatoes 
are  tender.  Five  minutes  before  taking  out  poUr  over  them  a  cupful 
of  whipped  cream,  sweetened.  It  will  brown  before  it  melts  and  makes 
a  piquant  sauce  for  the  dish.  Canned  tomatoes  are  more  delicious 
baked  than  stewed.  About  10  minutes  before  removing  from  the 
oven,  spread  buttered  bread  crumbs  over  the  t<^. 

COOK— 16  


242  VEGETABLES. 

Baw  Tomatoes,  to  Serve. — Peel  firm,  cold,  ripe  tomatogs,  slice 
thin,  put  in  a  glass  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar, 
to  add  a  zest.  Turn  over  all  a  cupful  of  the  best  cider  vinegar.  Cay- 
enne pepper  in  very  small  quaintity  is  better  than  black  pjspper .  Some 
cooks  add  a  teaspooi^ul  of  made  mustard  to  the  vinegar.  For  otlier 
ways  of  serving  raw  tomatoes  see  Department  on  Fresh  Frui^. 

Cabbage. 

Boiled  Cabbage. — Examine  thoroughly  and  wash  carefully  to  free 
from  insects.  Slice  in  sections  and  put  in  boiling,-salted  water.  Boil 
until  done,  but  not  until  water-soaked.  Drain  and  serve  with  vinegay 
or  chop  fine  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  same  a§  turnips. 
Very  nice.  Some  cooks  boil  th^  cabbage  with  a  small  piec^  of  corn- 
beef  or  salt  pork.  For  a  regiilar  "^  Boiled,  or  New  England  Dinner," 
see  Meat  Department. 

Saur  Kraut. — Slice  the  cabbage  as  thin  as  possible.  In  a  butter 
firkin  or  barrel  plabe  a  thin  layer  of  salt,  and  alternate  cabbage  and 
salt  at  each  layer.  -  Slightly  pound  with  a  maul  until  the  firkin  is  full. 
Have  salt  for  the  last  layer.  Some  housekeepers  add  1  quart  of  cider 
vinegar  to  a  large  jar  of  kraut.  Put  in  a  warm,  dry  place,  cover  with 
a  cloth,  put  a  largp  plate  if  a  jar,  a  sniall  barrel  head  if  a  barrel,  over 

the  cloth  and  a  weight  on  that.  Re- 
move the  cloth  every  few  days  and 
J  rinse  to  remove  the  scum.  Keep  in 
'a  warm  place  until  it  ceases  to  fer- 
Vegetab»e  Cutter.  ment,  or  "  work."     A  great  quantity 

of  water  and  foam  will  rise  to  the  top  while  this  process  is  going  on; 
dip  this  off  as  occasion  requires. 

After  the  fermentation  is  complete  remove  to  a  cold  place.  Never 
attempt  to  use  kraut  until  it  stops  foaming.  A  small  quantity  of  cara- 
way, or  coriander  seeds,  mixed  with  the  salt  used  will  add  to  the  flavor 
of  the  kraut.  Very  nice  white  kraut  is  sometimes  served  raw  as  a 
relish. 

Sailr  Kraut  and  Sausage. — Fry  h3.m  or  sausage,  especially  sau- 
sage. When  done  take  up ;  put  the  required  anionnt  of  kraut  in  the 
gravy  and  heat  through  thoroughly.  Heap  the  kraut  in  center  of  the 
platter  and  arrange  the  sausages  around  it.  A  little  vinegar  may  be 
added  to  the  kraut  l^efore  taking  up. 


VEGETABLES.  243 

Boiled  Saur  iB^raut. — Cook  in  boiling  water  1  hour.  It  may  then 
be  fried  in  butter  or  ham  gravy,  or  boiled  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork. 

Cauliflower,  Boiled. — Pick  off  the  outer  leaves  and  cut  off  the 
stem,  wash  well  in  cold  water,  tie  up  in  a  thin  cloth  and  stand  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water.  Add  a  little  salt,  and  cover ;  let  cook  until 
tender.  Lift  carefully  from  the  water,  take  off  the  cloth.  Pick  apart ; 
put  in  a  dish  and  pour  melted  butter  over  it.  Dredge  with  pepper 
(white).  Epicures  consider  2  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  an  improve-^ 
inent.  Adding  milk  to  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled,  renders  cauli- 
flower whiter.  Two  or  3  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar  will  have  same  effect 
and  is  preferred  by  some. 

Cauliflower  in  Cream. — Prepare  as  above.  Cook  very  tender  in 
1  pint  each  of  hot  milk  and  water,  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Take 
up  with  a  skimmer  and  serve  with  a  hot  cream  sauce. 

Creamed  Cauliflower. — Prepare  as  for  Boiled  Cauliflower,  drain 
and  pour  over  it  1  cupful  of  rich  milk.  Let  boil  and  season  with  1 
ta^espoonful  of  butter,  cut  in  bits  and  rolled  in  flour^  and  a  little 
white  or  black  pepper. 

Cauliflower  with  Cheese. — Plunge  a  medium-sized  cauliflower 
into  boiling  water,  allowing  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  the  Water,  boil 
the  cauliflower  until  just  tender,  drain  it,  and  break  itito  sprigs.  Heat 
half  a  pint  of  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  same  quantity  of  well-sea- 
soned bread  crumbs,  and  have  ready  some  grated  cheese.  Butter  a 
shallow,  round,  enameled  dish;  place  first  the  sprigs  of  cauliflower, 
then  cover  with  soaked  crumbs,  and  powder  these  thickly  with  cheese. 
Place  a  few  dots  of  butter  on  the.top.     Bake  until  it  is  a  light  browa 

Peas. 

BoUed  Peas. — ^When  boiled  as  follows  peas  are  exceptionally 
nice :  To  half  a  peck  allow  a  breakfast  cupful  of  water,  1  ounce  of 
butter,  1  large  lump  of  loaf  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  sprig  of  mint. 
Serve  with  the  liquor.  The  mint  can  be  omitted  if  it  is  not  liked. 
Stale  or  wilted  peas  may  be  improved  by  being  shelled  and  placed 
in  very  cold  water  for  at  least  1  hour  before  using,  and  adding  a  little 
sugar  to  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled. 

Gteen  Peas,  Stewed.— Shell  one-half  peck  of  young  peas,  put 
tfeem  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar'^and  suAicien<i 
boiling  YUaX^  to  barely  cover ;  add  2  ounces  of  butter  and  1  head  d 


244  VEGETABLES. 

lettuce,  boil  15  minutes ;  then  add  1  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  remove 
the  lettuce,  and  cook  to  nearly  dry ;  add  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of 
white  pepper.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  one-half  cupiful  of  milk, 
add  it  to  the  peas,  let  it  remain  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  with- 
out boiling,  then  serve.  Instead  of  using  lettuce,  the  young  pea-pods 
can  be  boiled  in  the  water  fir^t  (wash  them),  skimmed  out,  and  the 
peas  put  in.  One  whole  egg  can  be  used  instead  of  using  the  yolks 
of  two. 

Creamed  Peas. — Put  in  salted  boiling  water  and  cook  one-half 
hour.  Drain,  add  pepper,  butter  and  cream.  Or  take  1  cup  of  milk 
and  thicken  with  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

Green  Peas  with  Bacon. — Peas  should  not  be  shelled  until  just 
before  dooking.  Put  them  in  boiling  water  with  as  much  bacon  as 
would  cook  with  the  same  amount  of  beans,  and  boil  for  20  or  30 
minutes.  Long  boiling  cracks  the  skins  and  destroys  the  color  and 
flavor. 

Peas  Stewed  with  liamb. — Chop  1  pound  of  lamb.  Cook  slowly 
with  1  pint  of  green  peas  in  water  to  cover,  until  well  done.  Season 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  half  a  teacup  of  cream. 

Beans. 

String'  Beans.— String  beans  require  2  hours  to  cook;  cut  them 
in  bits  first,  stringing  carefully.  At  the  end  of  the  first  hour  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  to  each  quart  of  beans  should  be  added.  After  they 
are  done  all  the  water  should  be  poured  off,  and  to  the  beans  should 
be  added  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  4  tablfespponfuls  of  boiling 
water.     Return  to  the  fire  for  3  minutes  and  serve. 

Stringr  Beans  (French  Method). — String,  cut  in  pieces,  and  drop 
in  cold  water  and  wash,  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water.  When  ten- 
der f»ut  them  in  a  stewpan,  and  shake  over  the  fire  to  dry  away  the 
moisture  from  the  beans.  When  quite  dry  and  hot  add  3  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  and  seasoning  to  taste,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Keep 
moving  the  stewpan  without  using  a  spoon,  and  when  the  butter  is 
melted  and  all  thoroughly  hot,  serve. 

Canned  String  Beans. — Like  peas,  the  smallest  beans  are  con- 
sidered the  best.  These  are  very  tender  and  absolutely  stringless. 
Larger  beans  are  sold  at  lower  prices,  but  they  are  considered  very 
inferior  in  quality.    Stew  for  a  few  minutes  in  boiling  water,  strain 


VEGETABLES.  245 

thoroughly,  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  season  with  a  lump  of  butter, 
cream,  pepper  and  salt. 

Idma  Beans. — Shell  and  throw  into  cold  water.  Drain,  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  hot  water,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and 
set  on  the  stove  to  boil  until  tender.  Take  up  in  a  heated  dish,  pour 
over  melted  butter,  dredge  with  pepper,  and  serve. 

Shelled  Beans,  Green. — Prepare  same  as  Lima  Beans. 

Baked  Pork  and  Beans. — Soak  1  pint  of  beans  over  nigJit, 
Boil  in  the  morning,  adding  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda  to  the  water. 
When  the  beans  begin  to  break,  skim  them  into  a  baking-dish.  In 
the  centre  put  half  pound  of  pork,  with  the  upper  surface  well-scored. 
Cover  the  beans  with  boiling  water,  and  bake  3  hours  in  a  hot  oven. 
Have  the  top  a  rich  brown  before  removing,  but  be  careful  that  the 
beans  do  not  get  too  dry.  Some  cooks  boil  a  large  onion  with  the 
beans  for  the  flavor,  and  remove  it  before  baking. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. — Soak  1  quart  of  navy  beans  in  cold 
water  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  them  into  fresh  cold  water, 
and  simmer  till  soft  enough  to  pierce  with  a  pin,  being  careful  not 
to  let  them  boil  enough  to  break.  If  you  like,  boil  one  onion 
with  them.  When  soft,  turn  them  into  a  colander,  and  pour  cold 
water  through  them.  Place  in  the  bean  pot.  Remove  the  onion. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  part  fat 
and  part  lean ;  scrape  the  rind  till  white.  Cut  the  rind  into  half-inch 
strips ;  bury  the  pork  in  the  beans,  leaving  only  the  rind  exposed. 
Mix  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard  with  one- 
quarter  of  a  cup  of  molasses.  Fill  the  cup  with  hot  water,  and  when 
well  mixed  pour  it  over  the  beans ;  add  enough  more  water  to  cover 
them.  Keep  them  covered  with  water  until  the  last  hour;  then  lift 
the  pork  to  the  surface,  and  let  it  crisp.  Bake  8  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Use  more  salt,  and  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  if  you  dislike 
pork,  or  use  half  a  pound  of  fat  and  lean  corned  beef. 

The  mustard  gives  the  beans  a  delicious  flavor,  and  also  renders 
them  more  wholesome.  Many  add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  the 
water  in  which  the  beans  are  boiled,  to  destroy  the  acid  in  the  skin 
of  the  beans.  Yellow-eyed  beans  and  lima  beans  are  also  good  when 
baked.  The  regular  bean-pot  is  earthen,  with  a  narrow  mouth  and 
bulging  sides,  and  is  seldom  found  outside  of  the  New  England 
States.     Much  of  the  excellence  of  this  dish  depends  upon  this  utensil 


346  VEGETABLES. 


Parsnips. 


Parsnips  in  Batter. — Parsnips  deserve  a  more  favored  place 
in  the  fanrily  diet  than  is  usually  given  them.  Parsnips  in  batter  are 
excellent.  Cook  the  parsnips  uhtil  soft,  in  salted  water.  Parsnips 
should  never  be  boiled  whole,  since  the  outside  will  cook  too  much 
before  the  inside  is  tender. 

Cut  lengthwise  in  narrow  strips,  and  dip  each  strip  into  a  batter 
made  like  fritter  batter.  Fry  until  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat,  having 
as  much  fat  as  for  frying  doughnuts.  Cold  boiled  parsnips  can  be 
used  in  this  way  also. 

Fried  Parsidjts. — Boil  till  tender  in  Skltfed  water;  slice  length- 
\yise,  and  fiy  brown  in  hot  fat.  Drain  and  serve.  Cold  parsnips  can 
be' served  in  the  same  way. 

Btowned  Parsnips. — Scrape;  cut  into  lengthwise  strips,  and 
steam  until  tender — ^aboiit  1  hour.  Then  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  with  a 
little  salt  and  meat  dripping,  until  brown.  Drain  and  serve.  Cold 
boiled  parsnips  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Or  dip  in  flour  arid 
fry  in  biittet,  browning  both  sides. 

Creamed  Parsnips.- — Pare  and  boil  4  parsnips  very  tender ;  ciit 
them  in  rather  thin  slices  around  the  vegetable,  and  put  them  in  a 
saUce-pan  with  one  h^f-piilt  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
a  little  grated  nutmeg,>  if  liked,  and  salt  to  taste.  Keep  shaking  the 
pan  around  until  it  is  well  mixed,  and  is  thick  and  smooth.  Pour 
into  a  hot  dish  and  serve.  Milk  can  be  used  instead  of  cream ;  in 
which  case  a  trifle  more  flour  and  butter  will  be  needed.  Slices  of 
hard-boiled  egg  make  a  pretty  garnish.    Sprinkle  with  pepper. 

Breaded  Parsnips. — Scrub  thoroughly  with  a  brush,  and  drop 
into  boiling  water  that  has  been  previously  salted.  When  nearly 
done  skim  out,  and  slice  long  and  thin.  Dip  first  into  beaten  egg,  then 
into  bfead  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  to  a  golden  brown. 

Turnips. 

Tumlpa  Boiled  Whol*.— Turnips  boiled  like  beets,  with  their 
jackets  on,  are  of  better  flavor  and  less  watery.  A  small  bit  of  sugar 
added  while  the  vegetable  is  boiling  corrects  the  bitterness  often 
found  in  them.    Cut  up  and  mash  with  pepper,  butter  and  salt. 


.  VEGETABLES.  247 

Creamed  Turnips. — ^Turnips  if  sliced  will  take  about  30  minutes  ^ 
if  put  in  whole  40,  minutes'  time  will  be  needed  to  cook  them 
thoroughly.  Pare  the  turnips,  cut  them  in  small  pieces  and  boil 
them  in  plenty  of  hot 
salted  water.  When , 
done  drain  them  in  a  \ 
colander  and  turn  j 
them  into  a  hot  vege- 
table dish.  Put  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  in 
a  small  sauce-pan, 
and  when  hot  add  a 
level   teaspoonful  of  Arcadia  SUoer. 

flour;  stir  till  smooth,  but  not  brown;  add  half  a  pint  of  milk  and 
stir  continually  until  it  boils ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pour 
over  the  turnips. 

Diced  Turnips. — Pare,  slice,  cut  in  dice  an  inch  square,  boil  in 
as  little  salted  water  as  possible,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  a 
quart  of  turnips.  When  boiled  dry,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sweet 
cream  and  a  beaten  egg. 

Browned  Turnips. — Pare  turnips,  cut  in  slices  and  boil.  Drain. 
Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  let  heat,  add  the 
turnips,  with  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  and  turn  .until  the  slices 
are  brown.     Dust  with  .salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

Turnips  in  "White  Sauce. — Wash  and  cut  turnips  into  slices, 
pare  and  cut  the  slices  in  dice.  Cook  in  salted  water  until  tender. 
Drain  and  turn  over  them  a  hot  white  sauce. 

Asparagus. 

Asparagus,  To  BoU. — ^A  common  error  is  to  boil  asparagus  too 
much.  It  should  be  crisp,  rather  than  mushy.  Tie  the  stalks  with 
the  heads  all  one  way,  trim  to  an  even  length  and  place  upright  in  a 
high  vessel  of  salted  boiling  water,  leaving  the  tips  just  above  the 
water.  A  5-pound  lard  pail  makes  a  good  vessel  for  boiling  asparagus. 
If  the  bunches  are  placed  on  the  sides,  so  that  the  tips  and  all  are 
immersed,  this  most  delicate  portion  is  boiled  to  rags  before  the 
stems  are  done.  If  the  bunches  are  tied  with  bands  of  soft  old 
muslin,^^they  may  be  lifted  out  and  untied  without  breaking  the  stalks, 


248  VEGETABLES. 

as  cord  will  sometimes  do.  Season  with  butter  and  pepper,  and 
serve  at  once.  Asparagus  cooked  in  this  fashion  is  to  be  eaten  with 
the  fingers. 

Another  way  to,  boil  asparagus  is  to  cut  the  stalks  in  half  and  the 
lowest  part  should  be  cooked  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Then 
add  the  tops  and  cook  for  10  or  15  minutes.  By  this  method 
both  parts  become  just  right.  The  stalk  is  tender  throughout  and 
the  tops  do  not  fall  all  to  pieces.  Toast  is  always  servfed  with  aspar- 
agus, but  there  are  many  other  vegetables  with  which  it  is  equally 
good.  It  is  delicious- with  cauliflower,  and  either  French  or  butter 
beans,  also  with  cabbage,  if  a  white  sauce  is  served  with  that  vegeta- 
ble, and  it  is  worth  noting  that  summer  vegetables  will  generally  agree 
better  with  children  if  eaten  well-mixed  with  bread. 

Asparagus  on  Toast. — Boil  the  asparagus  as  above.  Toast 
slices  of  bread.  Dip  quickly  in  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus 
was  boiled,  and  butter.  Lay  several  stalks  of  asparagus  on  each 
slice,  arrange  on  platter,  season  with  pepper  and  melted  butter. 

Or  make  a  white  sauce  of  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour, 
a  little  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  enough  of  the  water  in  which 
the  asparagus  was  boiled  to  make  the  desired  consistency  (usually  1 
cup),  pour  over  asparagus.  Serve  at  once.  A  little  vinegar  is  some- 
times added  to  this  sauce. 

Onions. 

When  cooking  onions,  be  sure  to  set  a  tincup  of  vinegar  on  the 
stove  and  let  boil,  and  no  disagreeable  odor  will  be  in  the  room. 
When  peeling  and  slicing  onions  hold  under  water ;  have  a  large  pan- 
ful. In  this  way  their  pungfent  aroma  will  not  cause  the  eyes  to 
smart.  Onions  are  perhaps  the  most  wholesome  vegetable  in  use ; 
but  few  people  use  them  as  liberally  as  they  should  on  account  of  the 
disagreeable  odor.  A  cup  of  strong  cofifee  taken  immediately  after 
eating  is  said  to  counteract  this  odor  on  the  breath.  Sweet  milk  is 
also  recommended.  Parsley  and  vinegar  are  said  to  be  a  certain  rem- 
edy. In  peeling  onions  be  careful  not  to  cut  the  topor  bottom  too 
closely  or  the  onion  will  not  keep  whole. 

Boiled  Onions. — Boil  in  3  different  waters,  allowing  5  minutes  to 
each  water.  This  will  remove  the  odor  and  make  the  onions  tender 
and  sweet.  Boil  till  done,  then  season  with  milk,  butter,  salt  and 
pepper. 


VEGETABLES.  249 

Creamed  OnloHS. — Pare  the  onions  and  drop  into  boiling  water, 
parboil,  and  tiirn  the  water  off.  Add  more  salt  to  the  taste.  Cove* 
closely  and  boil  until  they  commence 
to  be  tender,  then  remove  cover,  sea- 
son with  salt  (if  necessary),  pepper 
and  butter,  and  boil  slowly  until  the 
water  has  nearly  evaporated.  Heat 
1  teacupful  of  sweet  milk  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  thicken  with  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in 
cold  milk.  When  it  boils  pour  it  on 
the  onions  and  serve.  Covered  Saucepan. 

Sscaloped  Onions. — Peel  and  slice  a  pint  of  nice  onions.  In  a 
baking  dish  spread  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs ;  add  a  layer  of  sliced 
onions ;  season  well,  and  so  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full.  Use 
plenty  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Pour  over  all  2  cups  of  sweet 
milk  and  bake  one  hour. 

Baked  Onions. — Select  even-sized  onions.  Cover  with  hot  salted 
water  and  simmer  30  minutes  without  removing  the  outside  skin. 
When  ready  to  bake,  carefully  remove  this  thin  membranous  skin, 
place  the  onions  in  a  baking  dish  and  bake  until  tender,  basting  often 
with  melted  butter.  The  onions  must  be  thoroughly  done,  but  should 
not  lose  their  shape.  Pour  melted  butter  over,  and  dust  with  pepper. 
Spanish  onions  are  best. 

Oelery. 

Celery  served  raw  should  be  placed  in  cold  water  an  hour  before 
using,  then  cleaned  and  arranged  on  a  celery  dish.  A  more  orna- 
mental way  is  to  cut  the  stalks  in  pieces  4  inches  long,  split  these  4 
or  5  times  with  a  sharp  knife,  lay  in  cold  water  till  they  curl,  then 
remove  to  a  glass  dish,  eat  with  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Celery 
can  be  kept  a  jveek  or  longer  by  first  rolling  it  in  dark-brown  paper ; 
then  pinning  it  in  a  towel  and  laying  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 
Thus  kept,  the  celety  will  bleach  to  a  considerable  extent  and  be  finer 
than  when  first  purchased.  One  of  the  novelties  of  the  market  is 
rose-tinted  celery.  This  is  now  grown  in  a  beautiful  pink  tint,  which 
is  very  effective  on  the  table,  and  it  is  quite  as  crisp,  nutty  and  deli- 
cious as  the  white  celery,  to  which  it  offers  an  excellent  foil.    A  pink 


250 


VEGETABLES. 


Beleek  salad  bowl,  heaped  with  pink  cfelefy  dressed  in  white  Mayon. 
naise  with  a  garnish  of  dainty  green,  makes  a  charming  dish  to  serve 
on  the  dinner  table  with  fried  chicken  or  roast  bird. 

Creamed  Celery.^^Cut  up  2  bunches  of  celery,  put  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  to  which  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
let  cook  until  tender.  Take  up,  drain  and  throw  into  cold  water. 
Put  a  tablespooiiful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  let  heat,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  mix  until  smooth;  thin  with  half  a  pint  of  milk 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  water  in  which  the  celery  was  boiled, 
season  with  salt  and  jpfepp'o".  Add  the  celery  to  the  sauce;  stir  until 
thoroughly  heated,  and  serve.  Cream  can  be  jused  instead  of  milk. 
Serve  with  chicken  or  turkey.  The  celery  may  be  boiled  in  the  stem 
and  served  with  drawn  butter  sauce  poured  over  it  if  preferred. 

Carrots. 

Creamed  Carrots. — Wash,  scrape  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted 
water.  Turn  off  the  water,  slice  in  the  saucepan,  add  a  lump  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  cover  them  with 
boiling  milk.  Stir  until  the  butter  melts. 
Dish  up  hot.  People  who  say  they  hate  car- 
rots will  eat  them  this  way  and  call  for  more. 

Fried  Carrots. — ^^Scrape  several  carrots  un- 
til all  the  spots  and  portions  of  skin  are  re- 
moved. Boil  until  nearly  done,  remove  from 
the  kettle,  draining  thoroughly ;  roll  in  granu- 
lated cornmeal  or  flour ;  fry  in  butter.  Serve 
hot. 

Caramel  Carrots. — Boil  the  carrots  and 
cut  in  long,  thin  strips  like  cigarettes.  Put 
Tin  Vegetable  Cutter,  jnto  ^^e  frying  pan  a  large  lump  of  butter  and 
drippings.  When  very  hot  add  the  carrots,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  until  the  edges  are  well  browned.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped^arsley  and  serve. 

Mushrooms. 
To  Test. — Beginning  With  August  is  the  season  of  plenty  in 
mushrooms.    The  top  is  a  dirty  white  color,  which  the  poetically  in- 
clined like  to  call  pearl-pink.    The  Under  side  is  a  salmon-colored 
fringe  surface  and 'becomes  brown  soon  after  gathering.    The  season 


VEGETABLES.  1251 

for  mushrooms  js  also,  the  season  for  the  mushropm^'  low-born  r«l^- 
tive,  the  toadstool.  It  is  absolutely  unsafe  to  eat  mushrooms  without 
testing  them  properly.  A  peeled  white  onion  cooked  in  the  pot  with 
the  toadstool  turns  black.  A  silver  spoon  used  to  turn  cooking  toad- 
stools turns  black.  If  either  of  these  things  should  happen  to  the 
mushrooms,  they  should  be  thrown  out.  Once  the  vegetable  is 
proved  to  he  the  harmless  and  delicious  one  some  of  the  following 
recipes  should  be  tried.  An  antidote  if  poisoned  is  powdered  emetics, 
followed  by  castor  oil. 

Creamed  Mushrooms. — Glean  12  large  mushrooms  and  put  them 
in  a  buttered  shallow  pan,  setting  them  cup  side  up.  Sprinkle  them 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  them  over  with  butter;  add  two-thirds 
cupful  of  cream  and  bake  10  minutes.    Serve  with  sliceg  of  toast. 

Sscaloped  Mushrooms. — Put  the  mushrooms  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing-dish with  alternate  layers  of  crumbs,  seasoning  each  layer  plenti- 
fully with  butter  J  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  gill  of  cream  or  gravy. 
Bake  20  minutes,  keeping  covered  while  in  the  oven. 

Stewed  Mushrooms. — Take  the  button  mushrooqis,  trim  and  rub 
clean  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  salt.  Cut  off  a  portion  of  the  stalk. 
To  one-half  pintof  the  mushrooms  put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in 
a  pan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  the  mushrooms  and  let 
them  broil  slightly.  Then  turn  in  a  very  little  hot  or  soup  stock  and 
let  them  stew  gently  for  one-quarter  of  an  hour.  Rub  together  a 
little  flour  and  butter  to  make  the  liquor  about  as  thick  as  cream. 
Let  boil  5  minutes7~  When  ready  to  dish  up  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  or  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg.  They  can  also  be  stewed  in 
milk  and  water,  half  and  half,  and  seasoned  to  taste.  Mushrooms 
can  be  cooked  in  almost  any  way  that  oysters  are  served. 

Cucumbers. 

Boiled  Cucumbers. — Peel  4  good-sized  cucumbers ;  cut  them 
into  halves,  then  into  quarters.  Put  them  carefully  into  the  bottom 
of  a  baking  pan  ;  cover  with  boiling  water;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  stew  gently  fQr  20  minutes.  Have  ready  a  platter  of  toast ;  lift 
the  cucumbers  carefully ;  arrange  them  neatly  on  the  toast,  and  cover 
with  English,  drawn  butter. 

Stewed  Cucumbers. — First  peel  the  cucumbers,  take 'away  the 
bitter  ends  and  cut  in  slices.    Place  in  a  china-lined  saucepan,  cover 


252  VEGETABLES. 

with  milk,  add  pepper  and  salt  and  stew  slowly  till  cooked ;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  Let  boil 
up  and  serve  hot.  A  very  delicate  dish.  If  a  little  cream  can  be 
added  it  will  be  an  improvement. 

Cucumbers,  Raw. — Cucumbers  should  be  fresh  and  kept  in  ice 
chest.  Cut  the  outside  while  the  green 
shows ;  slice  thin  and  salt  well ;  let  stand 
an  hour  before  using.  Pour  a  little  vine- 
gar over.  Or  slice  equal  quantities  of  onions 
_  and  cucumbers,  season  and  turn  vinegar 

*■'''    "il^^^^^SS/^l^^  °^^''-     ^''  P"*  the"™  ''ito  *  .glass  dish,  and 
j5  sprinkle  bits  of  ice  over  them.     Serve  with 
I  a  French  dressing  in  a  separate  dish. 

Fried  Cucumbers. — Cifcunlber^  are 
seldom  used  except  raw,  and  yet  ihey  are 
both  delicious  and  digestible  when  cooked. 
Vegetable  SUoer.  parg  3  large  cucumbers,  slice  thick,  and  soak 
in  salt  water  for  10  minutes.  Drain  and  press  out  the  water.  Roll 
each  slice  in  grated  cracker ;  fry  in  boiling  fat  and  serve  very  hot. 
Cucumbers  are  good  for  cooking  when  they  are  a  little  too  old  for 
slicing  raw. 

\  Cucumber  Toast. — Pare  the  cucumbers  and  slice  lengthwise  in 
cuts  three-quarter-inch  thick  ;  drop  in  cold  salt  water ;  dip  the  slices 
in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  or  meat  gravy  until  a  light  brown  on  each 
side.  Have  half  slices  of  toast,  moisten  slightly  and  butter.  Lay  a 
slice  of  cucumber  between  two  pieces  of  toast  [and  serve  immediately 
—hot  as  possible.     Cucumber  can  be  served  fried  without  the  toast. 

Bgg-Plant. 

Fried  Egg-Plant. — Take  a  medium-sized  purple  egg-plant,  slice 
f around  in  slices  one-half  inch  thick.  Drop  in  cold  salted  water  for 
^some  time  before  cooking  to  remove  the  strong  taste ;  or,  if  in  a  hurry, 
parboil  for  5  minutes  in  salted  water;  drain  on  a  napkin;  dip  each 
slice  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-dust  and  fry  until  a  light-brown. 
Pepper  and  serve  hot^  or,  dip  in  a  thin  batter  and  fry  a  delicate 
brown  on  both  sides. 

Stuffed  Bgg-Plant. — Cut  the  egg-plant  in  two ;  scrape  out  all  the 
inside,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  minced  ham ;  cover  with 


VEGETABLES.  253 

water  and  boil  until  soft;  drain  off  the  water;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  crumbs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  half  a  minced  onion, 
salt  and  pepper;  stuff  each  half  of  the  hull  with  the  mixture ;  add  a 
small  lump  of  butter  to  each  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Minced  veal 
or  chicken  in  the  place  of  ham  is  equally  as  good,  and  many  prefer  it. 
Stewed  Egg-Plant,  Creole  Method. — Stewed  egg-plants  is  a  de- 
lightful summer  dish.  Make  a  roux,  browning  one  onion  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  lard ;  cut  up  the  egg-plants  and  a  tomatp,  and  put  in  the  roux, 
adding  a  little  water  to  keep  from  burning,  then  stew  slowly,  season- 
ing with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  together,  mashing  the  egg- 
plant thoroughly,  and  serve.  ^ 

Truffles. 

The  truffle  belongs  to  the  mushroom  family.  In  France  they  are 
found  chiefly  under  the  oak,  in  England  beneath  the  beech-tree,  and 
sometimes  the  hazel  and  cedar.  In  this  country  only  under  one 
species  of  oak  do  they  grow,  and  that  the  holly  or  evergreen  variety. 
Here  they  are  chiefly  used  as  a  condiment  for  boned  turkey  and 
chicken,  beef,  game,  fish,  etc.  In  proper  quantities  they  give  a  pecu^ 
liar  zest  and  flavor  to  sauces  that  can  be  found  in  no  other  plant  in 
the  vegetable  kingdom.  In  countries  where  they  grow  in  greater 
profusion  they  are  frequently  served  by  themselves. 

Truffles,  Italian  Style. — Ten  truffles,  quarter-pint  of  salad^  oil. 
Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  A  very  little  finely  minced  garlic  (minced 
onion  would  better  suit  American  tastes),  2  blades  of  pounded  mace, 
1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Cleanse  and  brush  the  truffles,  cut 
in  thin  slices.  Mix  all  the  above  ingredients,  except  the  lemon  juice, 
and  pour  in  a  baking  dish.  Add  the  truffles  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Just  before  serving  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  send  to  the 
table  very  hot. 

Macaroni. 

The  possibilities  of  macaroni  are  sadly  neglected  in  this  country, 
and,  where  it  is  used,  one  or,  at  most,  two  ways  of  preparing,  seems 
to  be  the  extent  of  the  skill  of  the  ordinary  cook ;  and  so  the  fact 
remains  that  macaroni  is  not  rated  at  half  its  worth.  It  can  be  served 
as  a  side  dish,  or  in  the  summer-time,  when  meats  become  distasteful, 
may,  in  roasted  form,  constitute  the  chief  dish  of  the  dinner.  It  can 
be  chopped  fine  and  made  into  croquettes.    It  can  be  used  in  part  to 


264  VEGETABLES. 

stuff  both  bird  and  fowl ;  and  since  oiie  pound  of  it  is  said  to  be  as 
nourishing  as  two  pounds  of  beef;  it  seems  a  pity  that  it  is  not  more 
generally  used. 

Macaroni  Hints. — In  boiling  macaroni  it  is  fatal  to  permit  it  to 
stop  boiling  for  a  moment  until  done.  Have  plenty  of  salted  water 
in  the'  saucepan  at  the  boiling-point  when  the  sticks  are  added,  and 
when  they  are  tender  throw  in  a  glass  of  cold  wat«"  to  stop  the  cook- 
ing suddenly,  and  drain  at  once.  After  that  it  may  be  served  in 
various  ways.  Grate  cheese  on  a  coarse  grater  for  macaroni  and 
cheese,  instead  of  cutting  it.  Have  cheese  dry ;  save  a  piece  and  dry 
on  purpose  for  it. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. — ^Twelve  sticks  of  macaroni  broken  into 
1-inch  lengths,  cooked  in  3  pints  of  boiling  salted  water  20  minutes. 
Turn  into  a  colander  and  pour  over  it  cold  water ;  drain.  Make  a 
sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  1  ^  cups  of 
milk ;  salt.  Put  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  in  bottom  of  bake  dish,  then 
layer  of^macaroni  and  one  of  sauce,  then  cheese,  macaroni  and  sauce ; 
cover  top  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  <=frated 
cheese.    Bake  until  brown. 

Rice. 

Boiled  Biee.^Boiled  rice  is  considered  indispensable  for  break- 
fast at  the  south.  Wash  the  rice  in  several  waters,  and  allow  1  pint 
of  boiling  water  to  1  cup  of  rice,  add  a  little  salt,  cover  closely  and 
cook  slowly  until  perfectly  dry  j  do  not  stir  it,  and  when  done  each 
grain  will  be  perfect.    Cook  over  an  asbestos  lid  or  in  a  double  boiler. 

Rice  is  deficient  in  natural  fat,  therefore  it  is  a  more  useful  article 
of  diet  when  cooked  with  milk  or  butter.  In  boiling  rice  it  can  be 
cooked  in  a  very  little  water  at  first,  and  the  deficiency  supplied  by 
adding  boiling  milk  to  finish.  ■  Rice  cooked  thus  is  a  good  substitute 
for  potatoes  to  serve  with  roast  beef. 

Efoiled  Bice,  Syrian  Fashion. — Wash  the  rice  until  th?  water 
runs  clear.  Then  in  •?  dry  vessel  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  egg  to  a  cup  oi  rice.  Beat  over  the  fire  until  the  butter  is 
thoroughly  melted  and  bubbling.  Add  the  rice  and  stir  well  with  the 
butter.  Then  pour  in  salted  water,  and  cook  the  rice  slowly,  without 
stirring,  until  the  water  is  absorbed  and  it  is  tender.  With  rice  cooked 
perfecttsr  in  this  fashion,  an  unequalled  substitute  for  potatoes  is  found. 


VEGETABLES.  255 

Chow  Waia,  a  Chinese  Dish. — Take  equal  parts  rice  and  water ; 
let  it  boil  a  minute  and  then  sfet  where  it  can  steam  slowly  for  an 
hour,  stirring  occasionally  with  a  fork,  to  keep  the  kernels  whole. 
When  done,  or  when  cold,  put  in  frying-pan,  with  oil  or  melted  but- 
ter, and  heat  thoroughly  through,  adding  onions,  finely  chopped. 
One  good-sized  onion  to  a  pint  of  rice.     Add  salt  to  suit  the  taste. 

Baked  Bice. — ^One  cupful  rice,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  teaspooriful 
salt ;  wash  the  rice  carefully,  and  put  in  a  pudding  dish,  turn  in  the 
milk,  season  with  salt;  and  bake  m  a  slow  oven  2  hours.  It  should 
swell  and  be  a  firm  mass.   If  it  browns  top  fast  cover  until  nearly  done. 

Rice  Patties. — Two  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice,  3  eggs,,  one-fourth 
of  a  cup  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  little  salt.  Stir  well 
together  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  butter. 

Bice  and  Codfish. — Put  one-half  cup  of  rice  into  one-quart  of 
boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly  until  tender,  and  drain.  Turn  into  a 
saucepan  with  ofle^alf  box  of  shredded  codfish ;  stir  till  the  codfish 
is  thoroughly  hot,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
of  ,salt,  a  sailtspoonful  of  pepper ;  break  over  2  whole  eggs,  stir. 
quickly,  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve.  Sbak  the  codfish  in  clear 
water  while  the  rice  is  cooking. 

Bice  and  Cheese. — Rice  and  cheese  are  very  good  with^  roast 
beef.  They  are  prepared  in  much  the  same  way  as  macaroni  and 
cheese.  Boil  the  rice  until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain  dry,  then  put 
in  a  baking  dish,  alternate  layers  of  the  rice  and  grated  cheese.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  moisten  with  sweet  milk, 
cover  with  fine  buttered  crumbs,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

,^^  Spinach. 

Spinach,  Plain. — Spinach  should  be  cooked  so  as  to  retain  its 
bright,  green  color,  and  not  sent  to  the  table,  as 
it  so  often  is,  a  dull  brown.  To  keep  its  fresh 
green  color  leave  the  kettle,  in  which  it  is  cook- 
ing, uncovered.  This  course  may  be  pursued  with 
any  other  vegetable  where  it  is  desirable  to  retain 
the  green  color,  like  Brussels  sprouts  asparagus. 
Wash  the  spinach  very  thoroughly  in  several 
waters,  as  insects  and  sand  are  to  be  found  in  it. 
Drain  and  cook  15  or  20  minutes  in  boiling  salted        Oook  Pot 


256  VEGETABLES.  . 

water ;  skim  if  necessary.  Take,  up,  drain  and  press  well.  Chop  fine 
and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper.  Stir 
it  over  the  fire  until  quite  dry.  Turn  into  a  vegetable  dish  ;  pound 
it  up.  Slice  hard-boiled  eggs  over  the  top.  Pass  vinegar  around 
with  it. 

Spinach  a  la  Creme. — Another  change  is,  when  the  spinach  is 
heated  thoroughly  in  the  saucepan,  as  above,  beat  in  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  and  let  simmer  .5  minutes.  Garnish  with  sliced  hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Spinacli  with  Drawn  Butter. — I*ick  over  and  wash  a  peck  of 
spinach,  drain  and  shake  free  of  water.  Put  in  a  kettle  without  water, 
set  over  a  moderate  fire  and  let  steam  for  25  minutes.  Drain  in  a 
colander,  chop  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted  ^butter. 
Mould  the  spinach  by  pressing  tightly  in  small  cups,  turn  out  on 
slices  of  hot  buttered  toast,  sprinkle  the  tops  with  chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs.     Pour  drawn  butter  around  the  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Spinach  on  Toast. — Wash  well,  cooking  in  salted,  boiling  water. 
Drain  and  chop  fine.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  seasoning.  Stir  in  the  spinach  and  beat  smooth.  When  hot 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  or  2  of  milk.   Pour  upon  buttered  toast. 

Lettuce. 

Lettuce  Boiled. — Many  persons  dislike  this  vegetkble  as  a  salad. 
They  may  not  be  aware  that  when  boiled,  minced,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  it  forms  a  delightful  addition  to  the  dinner  table. 
A  Parisian  housewife  buys  a  bunch  of  lettuce  for  boiling  quite  as 
frequently  as  for  salad. 

Wilted  Liettuce. — Place  in  a  vegetable  dish  lettuce  that  has  been 
very  carefully"  picked  and  washed,  each  leaf  by  itself,  to  remove  all 
insects.  Cut  across  the  dish  several  times,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Fry  a  slice  of  fat  ham  until  brown ;  remove  meat ;  heat  the  grease 
until  very  hot;  add  1  cup  of  good  vinegar,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot 
over  the  lettuce.  Be  certain  to  have  the  fat  so  hot  that  when  the 
vinegar  is  poured  in  it  will  boil  immediately.  Add  half-cup  or  a  cup 
of  vinegar,  according  to  the  strength  of  vin^ar  and  quantity  of  lettuce. 

liettuce  a  la  Creme. — Lettuces  are  also  delicious  when  prepared 
as  follows:  Boil  them  as  above  stated  and  strain  well;  then  cook 
them  for  an  hour  in  a  white  sauce  made  thus :  Stir  over  the  fire  a  piece 


VEGETABLES,  257 

of  butter  in  an  enameled  saucepan  with  some  flour;  add  a  little 
water,  about  half  a,  wine-glass,  and  very  slowly  a  cupful  of  cream, 
stirring  gently  all  the  time.     Put  in  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Squash.  > 

Hubbard  Squash,  Baked. — Cut  open  the  squash,  take  out  the 
seeds,  and  without  paring  cut  up  in  large  pieces.  Put  the  pieces  on 
tins  or  in  a  dripping-pan  and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  done  serve  the  pieces  hot  on  a  dish  to  be  eaten  warm  with 
butter,  like  sweet  potatoes,  or  peel  and  mash,  seasoning  with  butter 
and  salt.  The  squash  retains  its  sweetness  much  better  if  boiled. 
Squash  may  be  cut  and  peeled  and  baked  with  roast  beef,  browning 
in  the  gravy  like  potatoes. 

Baked  Winter  Squash. — Boil  or  steam,  mash  and  let  get  cold, 
then  beat  up  light  with  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  2  raw  eggs, 
3  tablespoonfuls  milk;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  in  buttered 
bake  dish,  sift  dry  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Baked  Squash  Ij'Elegante. — Boil  or  steam.  Drain  and  put  in  a 
baking  dish,  put  over  them  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  the  oven  a  nice  brown. 

Squash  a  la  Creme. — Cut  into  suitable  sized  pieces  to  fit  a 
steamer,  place  shell  side  up.  When  tender,  take  the  pieces  in  a  cloth, 
with  a  spoon  carefully  remove  the  soft  part,  season  with  salt  and 
cream,  and  reheat  before  serving. 

Beets. 

Boiled  Beets. — Wash  the  beets  carefully,  and  do  not  cut  off  the 
roots,  for  by  so  doing  the  juices  escape  and  the  color  is  spoiled.  Boil 
them  several  hours ;  the  time  varies  according  to  the  age  and  season. 
When  young  and  small  they  require  about  an  hour.  When  they 
are  done,  pour  off  the  hot  water  and  cover  them  with  cold  water. 
Rub  off  the  skin,  cut  them  in  rather  thin  slices  and  season  with  plenty* 
of  fresh  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  you  like,  a  tablespoonful  or 
more  vinegar.  Keep  some  of  the  nicest  to  slice  cold  in  vinegar  for 
pickles. 

Foung  Beets. — Boil  and  slice,  pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  as 
follows :  Half  teacupful  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
butter.    Let  boil  up  and  turn  over  the  beets.    Serve  hot. 

COOK— 17 


258  VEGETABLES. 

Beets  a  la  Creme.-^Boil  and  slice  iot.  Have  cream  or  rich  milk 
seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  boil  up  and  pour  over  the 
beets  at  once. 

Baked  Beets. — Beets  retain  their  sweet  flavor  to  perfection  if 
baked.  Turn  frequently  in  the  oven,  but  do  not  use  a  fork*  as  that 
would  let  out  the  juices.  When  done  peel,  slice  and  season  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Stiififed  Green  Peppers.— Immerse  the  peppers  in  boiling  water 
for  a  moment,  remove  the  skin,  cut  around  the  stem  and  remove  both 
it  and  the  seeds;  fill  with  a  stuffing  made  from  tomatoes  and  bread- 
crumbs seasoned,  and  cook  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  the 
peppers  ,are  too  ripe  they  will  lose  their  form.  Serve  with  a  tomato 
sauce. 

Okra. 

Okra. — ^This  grbws  in  the  shape  of  pods,  is  of  a  gelatinous  char- 
acter, is  much  used  for  soup,  is  also  pickled  and  may  be  boiled  as 
follows:  Put  the  young,  tender  pods  of  long,  white  okra  in  salted 
boiling  water  in  a  porcelain  or  granite  saucepan.  (Iron  will  discolor 
it.)  Boil  15  minutes,  remove  the  stems,  and  serve  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.    A  little  vinegar  may^  be  used,  if  liked. 

Creamed-Okra. — Boil  young  okra  until  tender ;  drain,  add  cream 
and  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot.  ^our  over 
buttered  toast  if  desired. 

Okra  Gumbo,  Creole  Style. — Take  equal  quantities  of  tender 
okra  chopped  fine,  and  ripe  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  1  onion  sliced,  a 
lump  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Stew  the  whole  until  ten- 
der, add  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  to  prevent  burning." 

Miscellaneous  Vegetables. 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oyster, — Scrape  and  throw  at  once  into 
cold  water,  with  a  little  vinegar  in  it  to  keep  them  from  turning  black. 
Cook  in  boiling  salted  Water  1  hour,  or  until  tender.  Add  a  cupful 
of  cream  or  milk,  with  3.  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  in  smoothly,  to 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
butter,  and  serve  as  other  oysters.  A  small  piece  of  codfish  is  some- 
times boiled  with  it. 

Fried  Salsify. — Wash,  scrape  and  boil  an  hour,  or  till  it  is  tender. 
Put  it  into  a  dish  and  mash  it  with  a  potato  masher ;  season  it  with  a 


VEGETABLES.  259 

little  cream,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  just  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Set  away  to  cool.  When  very  cold  shape  into  balls,  dip  in  egg,  roll 
in  fine  crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  boiling  fat.  Or,  after  mashing  the 
oyster  plant,  add  an  egg  for  each  cupful  of  pulp^  add  a  little  butter 
and  salt,  and,  if  necessary,  a  little  flour  may  be  stirred  in.  Make  it 
up  into  small  cakes,  and  fry  them  in  hot  butter. 

Brussels  Sprouts. — Pick  off  the  outside  from  half  a  gallon  of 
sprouts,  wash  in  cold  water,  put  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling 
salted  water.  Let  boil  rapidly  for  25  minutes,  drain,  put  in  a  heated 
dish,  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Stewed  Water-cress. — Lay  the  cresses  in  strong  salt  and  water, 
pick  and  wash  them  well,  and  stew  in  water  until  tender ;  drain  and 
chop  them,  return  to  the  stew  pan,  with  a  lump  of  butter,  some  salt 
and  pepper,  and  let  get  thoroughly  hot.  Just  before  serving  squeeze 
in  a  little  lemon  juice.  Serve  with  fried  sippets  of  bread.  These  are 
very  nice  with  boiled  chickens. 

Fresh  Water-cress. — Wash  very  carefully,  shake  dry,  heap  on  a 
pretty  dish.     To  be^aten  with  salt,  as  each  person  likes. 

Grandmotlier's  Dandelion  Greens. — ^When  thoroughly  cleansed 
boil  in  plenty  of  salted  water  till  tender,  drain  and  press  till  very  dry, 
and  chop  in  a  chopping  bowl  moderately  fine.  Take  a  large  bunch 
of  garden  sorrel,  wash,  drain  thoroughly,  and 'chop  quite  fine.  There 
should  be  about  one-third  as  much  chopped  sorrel  as  dandelion.  Into 
a  deep  saucepan  put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  for  each  cupful 
of  the  sorrel.  When  quite  hot  add  the  sorfel  and  stir  over  a  mode- 
rate fire  till  it  has  turned  brown.  Now  add  the  dandelion,  stir  till 
boiling  hot,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  1  beaten  egg  for  each  pint 
of  greens,  and  serve.  The  eggs  may  be  entirely  omitted  without 
spoiling  the  dish.  More  or  less  sorrel  may  be  used,  according  to 
taste,  no  vinegar  being  eaten  with  the  greens.  The  wild  sorrel  is 
equally^  as  good,  but,  being  very  small,  requires  considerable  time  to 
gather  and  prepare. 

'  Greens. — One  peck  of  greens  is  sufficient  for  a  family  of  six. 
Dandelions,  cow-slips,  yellow  dock  (the  long,  narrow  leaf),  mustard, 
turnip  tops,  cabbage  sprout,  lambs'  quarters,  etc.  Separate  or  mixed. 
Examine  very  carefully.  Rinse  in  several  waters  until  they  are  en- 
tirely free  from  sand  and  insects.  If  the  last  water  be  well  salted  it 
will  aid  in  freeing  from  insect  life,  especially  if  they  are  allowed  to 


260  VEGETABLES. 

stand  in  it  awhile.  Cook  in  plenty  of  boiling  salted  water.  Cut 
away  all  the  tough  leaves  and  stalks  before  cooking.  Drain  in  a 
colander,  chop  a  little,  return  to  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  and  season 
with  butter  and  pepper.  This  dries  them  a  little.  Serve  hot.  Send 
vinegar  around  with  them.     Garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg. 

Beet  Grreens. — These  are,  perhaps,  the  most  delicious  greens  to 
be  had.  Wash  and  sort  the  leaves  carefully.  Preserve  all  the  tiny 
young  beets  there  may  be  among  them ;  boil  in  salted  water.  Drain, 
chop  altogether.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Send  vinegar 
around  with  them.     Serve  hot. 

Fried  Apples. — Choose  large,  firm  apples,  rather  tart,  wash  with- 
out paring  and  slice  across,  so  as  to  make  round  slices  half  an  inch 
thick,  with  the  core  in  the  center.  Have  a  spoonful  of  butter  brown- 
ing in  the  pan  and  lay  the  slices  in  to  brown.  Just  as  they  are  ready 
to  turn,  if  a  sweet  dish  is  liked,  sprinkle  cinnamon  and  sugstr  over  the 
uncooked  side,  so  that  the  flavor  will  go  into  the  apple  while  brown- 
ing. The  old-fashioned  way  was  to  fry  them  in  the  fat  of  salt  pork, 
and  serve  without  sweetening  as  a  tart  sauce  with  the  meat.  The  art 
of  cooking  them  is  to  have  the  slices  tender  and  browned,  but  un- 
broken.    A  deep  griddle  is  best  to  fry  them  on. 

Fried  Evaporated  Apples. — ^Two  handfuls  of  evaporated  apples 
soaked  20  minutes  in  water ;  put  into  frying-pan  1  teaspoon  of  butter 
and  1  teaspoon  of  lard ;  put  in  the  apples  and  cover  them  with  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  cinnamon  and  salt,  then  1  tablespoon 
,  of  the  water  the  apples  were  soaked  in ;  cover  a  few  minutes,  then  let 
them  brown.     Fine  to  eat  with  pork  chops. 

Fried  Bread  Served  for  a  "Vegetable. — Cut  some  bread,  which, 
though  stale,  is  still  light  and  soft,  into  fingers  half  an  inch  thick ; 
dip  them  in  milk,  and  let  them  drain  for  a  while.  Dip  in  beaten  egg. 
Dredge  flour  over  them  and  fry  in  a  little  hot  butter  in  a  frying-pan. 
Pile  th^m  pyramid  fashion  in  a  hot  dish  a:nd  serve  with  gravy. 

Vegetable  Turkey. — Bread,  1  pound;  butter,  one-half  cupful; 
nut  meats,  onfc-fourth  to  half  pound,  1  egg,  seasoning  and  sage  to 
taste.  Either  mash  the  nuts  in  a  mortar  or  chop  fine,  then  put  bread, 
butter,  and  egg  into  a  chopping-bowl,  pour  on  the  boiling-water  and 
chop  fine,  season  to  taste,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Butter  a  pudding- 
pan,  cover  the  butter  with  bread  crumbs ;  put  in  the  mixture,  and  bake 
ftn  hour,  or  until  well  done. 


WErlEMFfrlK 


Croquettes  form  a  dainty  breakfast  or  lun^ 
cheon  dish,  and  are  often  used  as  an  entree  at 
j^  dinner.    Many  housekeepers  think  that  chicken, 

sweet-breads,  or  veal,  are  the  only  meats  from  which 
croquettes  can  be  made,  but  this  is  an  error;  many 
canned  and  fresh  fish  being  well  suited  for  the  dish. 
The  following  recipes  for  making  croquettes  for  both  the 
family  table  and  company  luncheons,  will  be  found  dainty  and 
economical :  Croquettes  rnay  be  fried  in  almost  any  kind  of  fat  or 
sweet  dripping.  The  fat  should  be  hot  and  the  croquette  well 
breaded,  and  fried  so  quickly  that  no  trace  of  fat  remains. 

The  economical  housewife  spends  but  little  money  for  lard  or 
butter  for  frying  purposes.  All  scraps  of  fat  from  pork  and  beef  can 
be  rendered,  strained,  and  set  aside  for  this  purpose.  The  skimmings 
from  the  meat  liquor,  as  well  as  the  drippings  from  all  roasted  meats, 
may  be  saved  and  properly  clarified,  by  being  poured  into  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water,  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  poured  into  a  dish  tb 
cool ;  when  cold,  the  fat  will  cake  on  the  top,  and  may  very  easily 
be  removed. 

Beef  marrow,  taken  from  soup  bones  and  round  steak,  is  excellent 
for  cooking  purposes.  Cut  it  into  small  bits ;  put  it  in  a  covered 
stone  jar ;  set  it  in  a  pan  of  water,  and  place  over  the  fire  to  simmer 
gently.  '  When  all  melted,  strain  through  a  thin  cloth  into  a  clean 
pan ;  let  it  settle  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  press  into  small  jars,  and 
tie  it  securely.  It  will  keep  for  months.  Beef  suet,  if  mixed  with 
pork  drippings,  will  be  found  excellent  for  plain  pastry  and  cakes^  as 
well  as  for  frying  purposes. 

A  deep  stew-pan,  fitted  with  a  wire  frying  basket,  is  far  the  best 
utensil  to  use  for  frying.  The  old-fashioned  shallow  pans  do  not  hold 
sufficient  fat.  A  good  deal  of  fat  is  required  for  the  stew-pan  at  first, 
but  if  properly  clarified  after  using,  and  a  little  added  to  it  from  time 
to  time;  it  will  last  for  quite  a  long  while,  and  can  be  frequently  used. 
The  fat  should  not  boil,  but  be  smoking  hot.  Too  hot  fat  burns 
the  croquette  before  it  can  fry,  and  too  cool  fat  usually  bursts  the 

267 


262  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS. 

covering.  Another  cause  for  ths  bursting  is,  that  the  article  to  be 
fried  has  not  been  entirely  covered  by  the  egg,  as  well  as  by  the 
bread  crumbs.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that  every  part  is  entirely 
covered.  In  covering  croquettes,  or  anything  for  frying,  bread  crumbs 
are  preferable,  as  the  shortening  employed  in  making  the  crackers 
attracts  the  grease.  Some  cooks  prefer  fine  raspings  of  a  pale  color 
to  bread  crumbs.  Save  the  crusts  from  bread  prepared  for  toasting  j 
dry,  not  brown,  in  the  oven.  Roll,  or  pound  fine ;  then  Sift,  and  put 
in  an  air-tight  fruit  jar,  in  a  dry  place.  They  will  remain  sweet  and 
^ood  for  weeks.  Bits  of  stale  bread  can  be  used  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Croquettes  should  be  served  on  a  folded  napkin,  laid  on  a  plate. 
Direct  contact  with  the  plate  inclines  them  to  fall.  It  requires  as 
much  fat  to  fry,  croquettes  as  for  doughnuts. 

Where  onions  are  used  for  flavoring,  onion  juice  is  often  better 
than  the  minced  vegetable.  To  extract  the  juice,  cut  the  onion  in 
half  and  press  it  against,  and  pass  it  slowly  over,  a,  grater.  The  juice 
will  run  off  the  point  of  the  grater.  -If  the  croquette  is  mixed  with 
egg,  breading  is  enough;  otherwise,  dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll 
in  crumbs. 

Chicken  and  Oyster  CroquetteB.— One  cupful  cold  chopped- 
chicken,  one-half  cupful  sifted  bread  crumbs,  1  cupful  chopped  oys- 
ters, 1  egg  beaten  lightly.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  the  bones 
of  the  chicken  in  water  enough  to  cover.  Moisten  the  chicken  and 
oyster  mixture  with  the  resulting  broth  to  a  consistency  that  it  can 
be  moulded  by  the  hands  into  rolls  about  the  size  of  the  finger.  Roll 
in  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  fry- in  hot  lard. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — One-qUarter  as  much  fine  bread  crumbs 
as  meat ;  1  egg  beaten  light  to  each  cupful  of  minced  meat ;  gfavy 
enough  to  moisten ;  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley  to  taste.  Mix 
into  a  paste.  Make  into  rolls  or  balls,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
in  nice  dripping  or  a  mixture  of  half  lard  and  half  butter.  Veal  and 
other  meats  may  be  made  in  the  same  way ;  turkey  also.  Cream 
may  be  used  to  moisten  the  minced  chicken  instead  of  gravy  or 
broth.  Instead  of  bread  crumbs  the  same  amount  of  stuffing  remain- 
ing over  from  the  roast  chicken  may  be  used  as  a  savory  change. 

Chicken  and  Calves'  Brains  Croquettes. — One  fat  hen  well 
boiled,  and  when  cold  the  skin  removed,  2  sets  of  calves'  brains 
boiled  and  allowed  to  cool,  1  large  kitchen-spoonful  of  flour,  1  pint 


CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS.  263 

of  cream,  half  a  teacup  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped 
parsley,  2  raw  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs,  1  scant 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  juice  of  1  lemon,  cayenne  pepper,  salt 
and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Chop  the  chicken  very  fine  and  rub  it  into  the 
brains,  add  the  bread  crumbs,  chopped  parsley  and  mace  and  eggs. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  pan  with  the  flour,  and  when  it  bubbles  add  the 
cream  gradually,  then  the  chopped  mixture,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg, 
and  stir  until  thoroughly  heated,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  lemon 
juice,  then  set  away  to  cool.  Roll  or  mould  into  shape  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  after  having  dipped  them  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs. 

Meat  Croquettes. — ^Any  one  may  have  croquettes  who  can  ijiince 
cold  meat  very  fine  and  stir  it  into  a  sauce  made  thus :  One  pint  of 

to    thicken;  Timbal*  Irons, 

add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  flavor  with  onion  juice  or  celery  seed  or 
-pulverized  dried  sage.  When  cooked  add  a  pint  of  the  chopped 
meat  (for  half  a  pint  take  half  of  the  sauce)  and  stir  well ;  then,  when 
cold,  make  into  croquettes  or  balls,  rolling  in  the  hands.  Dip  into 
beaten  egg  and  fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  or  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  like 
doughnuts  in  boiling  lard. 

Sauce  for  Meat  Croquettes. — ^A  vety  nice  sauce  to  serve  with 
croquettes  is  made  of  stewed  tomatoes  put  through  a  sieve  and 
thickened  very  thick,  so  it  will  just  spread  over  them ;  it  is  served 
from  a  gravy  boat  with  ladle,  not  on  the  dish.  With  croquettes,  bits 
of  parsley  should  be  used  for  a  garnish. 

Baked  Croquettes. — Free  from  bones  the  chicken  left  from-  din- 
ner, add  the  liver  left  from  breakfast,  and  chop  fine.  Add  the  potato 
left  from  dinner ;  mould  into  cakes  and  bake  on  a  buttered  tin. 

Ham  Croquettes. — ^A  cupful  of  finely-chopped^  cooked  ham,  a 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  2  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  3  eggs,  a  speck  of  cayenne. '  Beat  the  ham,  cayenne,  butter 
and  2  of  the  eggs  into  the  potato.  Let  the  mixture  cool  slightly  and 
Bhape  it  like  croquettes.    Roll  in  bread  crumbs,  put  in  the  frying- 


264  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS. 

basket  and  plunge  into  boiling  fat.  Drain  and  serve.  'These  cro- 
quettes may  be  made  without  the  bread  crumbs,  in  which  case  leave 
out  one  egg. 

Corned  Beef  Croquettes.— Carefully  remove  all  fat  and  gristle 
from  pieces  of  cold  corned  beef.  Chop  very  fine,  as  for  mince-meat. 
Mix  with  rolled  cracker  crumbs.  Add  1  beaten  egg,  pepper  and  salt. 
Mould  into  little  cones,  pr  cat  into  cakes  with  the  biscuit  cutter. 
Roll  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  again  in  beaten 
^&g-  Fiy  ii^  *  ^ot  spider  with  butter  till  nicely  browned  on  each 
side.     These  are  very  nice,  even  with  the  eggs  omitted. 

Sweet-Bread  Crofluettes.^— Take  4  veal  sweet-breads,  soak  for 
an  hour  in  cold,  salted  water,  first  removing  the  pipes  and  mem- 
branes ;  then  put  into  boiling,  salted  water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar.  Cook  twenty  minutes.  Drop  into  cold  water  to  harden. 
Chop  fine,  almost  to  a  paste.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and:a  teaspoon- 
fiil  of  grated  onion ;  add  2  beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
one-half  cupful  of  cream.  Flour  the  hands  and  mould  into  round  or 
pear-shaped  balls.  Dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain  and  serve  hot  on  a 
folded  napkin.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  or  parsley. 

Veal  Croquettes. — To  1  pint  of  chopped  cold  veal  (beef  may  be 
used)  add  one-half  pint  of  cream,  or  rich  milk  may  be  used ;  to  this 
Quantity  put  1  tablespoonful  butter  creamed  with  one  tablespoonful 
flour.  Put  all  save  the  meat  over  the  fire  to  thicken ;  season  it  to 
taste,  and  pour  over  the  meat;  mix  thoroughly  and  fprm  into  shape; 
roll  in  bread  or  cracker-crumbs  and  fry  brown,  or,  if  preferred,  bake. 

Idver  Croquettes. — Take  what  was  left  of  the  liver  from  break- 
fast and  the  remains  of  any  cold  meat  from  dinner  to  "piece  out." 
Chop  fine  and  mix  with  the  gravy  that  was  left  over.  Season  with 
a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  onion  juice,  or  minced  onion.  Add  as 
much  mashed  potato  as  you  have  meat,  season  to  taste,  roll  into 
shape  and  dip  into  beaten  eggs,  then  into  bread  crumbs.  Fry  a  light 
brown  quickly.  Drain  carefully  and  serve.  Bread  crumbs  jnay  be 
used  in  place  of  potato.  If  gravy  is  not  convenient,  use  a  little  hot 
water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  melted  in  it. 

Sbad-Koe  Croquettes. — Wash  2  shad  roes,  put  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cover  and  let  simmer  slowly 
for  15  minutes.    Take  them  up,  remove  the  skin  and  mash  them. 


CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS.  265 

Put  a  cupful  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on  the  stove  to  boil. 
Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
rubbed  together ;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  take  from  the  fire, 
season  with  salt,  cayenne,  black  pepper  and  minced  parsley,  turn  out 
on  a  large  dish.  When  cool,  form  into  croquettes,  dip  first  in  beaten 
egg,  whites  left  over,  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  | 
fet. 

Cod's  Roe  Croquettes. — Make  same  as  shad-roe  croquettes. 

Fish  Croquettes. — One  pint  of  cold  boiled  fish  (any  kind  will 
do),  free  from  skin  and  bones,  and  mince  fine  ;  1  pint  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  1  egg 
well  beaten,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  chopped  parsely ;  mix  thor- 
oughly and  let  cool ;  when  cold  make  into  balls ;  dip  into  a  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Drain,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve.     If  desired,  serve  with  a  cream  sauce. 

Codflsb  Croquettes. — One  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes,  one-half 
cup  shredded  codfish,  1  egg,  a  dash  of  pepper.  Add  the  fish  to  the 
mashed  potatoes  without  freshening,  then  the  egg,  beating  till  light 
and  creamy.  Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in  dried  bread  crumbs,  dip 
in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  wire  basket,  with  fat 
just  at  smoking  point.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  in  hot  platter 
with  parsley  garnish. 

Canned  Salmon  Croquettes.^Open  a  pound  can  of  salmon, 
turn  out  in  a  dish,  chop  fine,  drain,  remove  bones,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  in  a  saucepan 
and  set  on  the  fire  to  boil,  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
3  of  flour  rubbed  together,  let  cook  10  minutes,  season  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  with  the  salmon ;  turn  out  on  a  dish  to  cool. 
When  firm,  form  into  croquettes,  dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Take  up,  drain,  serve 
on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Oyster  Croquettes. — Put  2  dozen  fresh  oysters  in  a  saucepan  in 
their  own  liquor,  and  set  over  the  fire  to  boil  for  6  minutes.  Take 
'from  the  fire  and  drain,  chop  the  oysters  fine.  Put  a  gill  of  cream 
and  oyster  liquor  each  in  a  saucepan  and  set  over  the  fire.  Thicken 
vith  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  1  of  butter  rubbed  together ;  add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  stir  for  1  minute,  season  with  a  little  salt 


2«8  CR0QUETTB5  AN©  FRITFERS. 

and  cayenne  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley;  mix  well,  turn 
out  on  a  large,  flat  dish.  When  cool,  form  into  cylinders,  dip  first  in 
beaten  egg,  thpQ  in  grated  cracker,  and  fry  brown  in  boiling  fat. 

Lobster  Croquettes. — One  lobster  boiled,  or  1  can  of  lobster,  2 
eggs,  1  teacupful  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter.  Salt 
and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  (Instead  of  pepper  some  cooks  add  1 
jteaspoonful  pustard.)  Chop  the  lobster  meat  fine,  add  bread  crumbs, 
the  seasoning  and  the  butter.  Mix  with  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Make 
into  oblong  croquettes.  Beat  the  remainder  of  the  eggs  and  dip  the 
croquettes  first  in  them  and  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown.    Drain  off  fat  by  laying  upon  a  hot  clean  paper  before  dishing. 

Clam  Croquettes. — Scald  the  clams  6  minutes  in  their  own 
liquor.  Drain,  and  chop  fine,  then  mix  with  the  following  cream 
sauce :  One  tablespoonful  of  butter  blended  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour.  Season  with  salt,  a  pinch  of  ground  mace  and  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne. Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg  and  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley.  ,Stir  until  very  thick 
and  turn  out  to  cool.  When  cold,  shape  into  balls,  or  cones,  dip  in 
egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Cream  Chestnut  Croquettes; — Fifty  Spanish  chestnuts,  one- half 
cupful  cream,  3  tablespoonfuls  butter,  4  eggs,  one-half  teaspooB  ful 
salt.  Shell,  blanch  and  boil  the  chestnuts  30  minutes.  Drain  and 
pound  the  chestnuts  fine  in  a  mortar.  Add  the  butter  and  salt  by 
degrees,  pounding  until  it  is  "mixed  to  a  paste.  Add  the  cream,  a 
little  at  a  time,  working  or  pounding  thproughly.  Beat  3  of  the  eggs 
light  and  beat  into  the  other  ingredients.  Put  the  mixture  into  a 
double  boiler  and  cook  8  or  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  It 
should  be  smooth  and  thick  at  the  end  of  this  time  if  the  water  in 
the  outer  boiler  has  been  boiling  rapidly.  Spread  it  on  a  large  platter 
and  set  away  to  cool.  When  the  mixture  is  cold,  butter  the  hands 
slightly  and  shape  the  mixtuce  into  cylinders,  cones  or  balls.  Dip 
these  in  the  fourth  egg  (beaten)  and  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Fry 
for  one  minute  and  a  half.  Arrange  on  a  warm  napkin  and  serve  at 
once. 

Bice  and  Meat  Croquettes. — 1  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  1  cupful  of 
finely  chopped  and  cooked  meab-^ahy  kind — 1  teaspoonful  of  salty  a 
little  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  1  egg. 
Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  and  add  the  meat,  rice,  and  seasoning.    When 


CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS.  267 

this  boils,  add  the  egg,  well  beaten;  stir  1  minute.    After  cooling, 
shape,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  as  before  directed. 

Rice  Croquettes. — Take  1  pint  of  boiled  rice ;  add  1  egg,  salt 
and  pepper ;  beat  well ;  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  lard,  and  fry.  a 
deep  brown.     If  liked,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Bice  Croquettes,  Trith  Parmesan  Sauce. — Boil  half  a  pint  of 
rice  in  a  quart  of  stock  until  the  stock  is  all  absorbed;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley,  2  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  ail 
seasoning  of  salt  and  cayenne.     Turn  out  to  cool,  and  when  cool 
mould  into  croquettes  and  cook  as  usual. ' 

Parmesan  Sauce. — Make  a  sauce  of  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  a  gill  each  of  stock  and  milk,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese ;  season  with  cayenne,  and  serve  poured  around  the 
croquettes. 

Green  Com  Croquettes. — One  quart  tender  green  corn,  grated ; 
1  cup  of  sifted  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  5  scant  tablespoonfuls  but- 
ter, 2  eggs,  1  saltspoonful  salt,  same  of  pepper.  Grate  corn  as  fine 
as  possible,  and  mix  with  the  flour  and  pepper  and  salt.  Warm  the 
milk  and  melt  the  butter  in  it.  Add  the  corn,  stir  hard,  and  let  cool. 
Then  stir  the  eggs  beaten  jsery  light,  the  whites  last.  Work  into 
small  oval  balls,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  butter.  Drain,  and  serve 
hot. 

Parsnip  Croquettes. — Mash  cold,  boiled  parsnips  and  form  into 
small  cakes,  dip  into  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Serve  very  hot. 
Oyster  plant,  potatoes,  squash,  turnips  and  carrots  are  equally  nice 
served  in  this  way,  and  if  the  quantity  of  the  vegetables  is  insuflicient, 
add  finely  grated  bread  crumbs,  mix  well  and  season  thoroughly. 

Macaroni  Croquettes. — Half  pound  of  macaroni  broken  into  bits. 
Put  in  boiling  salted,  water,  and  boil  20  minutes  rapidly.  Drain,  and 
throw  into  cold  water  to  blanch  for  15  minutes.  Make  a  cream 
sauce  of  half  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  blended  with  4 
even  tablespoonfuls  cf  flour.  Put  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and 
stir  in  the  butter  and  flour ;  cook  until  a  pa^te.  Then  add  a  beaten 
^ZZ  '<  cook  for  a  moment.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
ef  grated  cheete,  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Drain 
and  shake  the  macaroni,,  Got  kinto  half-inch  pieces ;  stir  these  into 
4he  mixture,  and  %iath.  out  to  cool.    When  cbld/  farm  into  cro^ettes ; 


268  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS. 

dip  first  into  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smokJng-hot 
fat.     This  quantity  will  make  18  good-sized  croquettes. 

Potato  Croquettes. — Take  4  cold  mealy  potatoes,  crumble  them 
through  a  sieve  and  beat  up  well  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  ;  add 
salt  and  pepper  and  chopped  parsley.  Bind  the  mixture  with  an  egg 
well  beaten,  then  make  into  small  cakes  and  fry  in  boiling  butter  or 
lard.     Serve  very  hot,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes. — Boil,  mash  and  season  sweet  potatoes 
with  isalt,  butter  and  cream.  Add  the  white  of  1  or  2  eggs,  according 
to  the  quantity  of  potato  used,  and  cream  the  mixture.  Make  into 
pats,  dip  each  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  roll  them  in 
sifted  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  until  brown  in  a  wire  basket. 

Egg  Croquettes. — Egg  croquettes'are  a  delicate  dish  for  luncheon. 
Cut  some  hard-boiled  eggs  into  dice  a  quarter  of  an  inqh  in  size. 
Mix  them  with  some  chopped  mushrooms,  if  convenient.  Stir  care- 
fully into  a  white  sauce.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  cold  dish  to  stiffen. 
Mix  into  croquettes.     Fry  in  hot  fat. 

Fritters. 

Fritters  should  be  fried  in  the  same  quantify  of  lard  that  is  re- 
quired for  croquettes  and  doughnuts.  The  lard  should  be  boiling  hot 
so  that  the  fritter  will  rise  quickly  to  the  top.  Send  to  the  table  im- 
mediately, as  they  become  heavy  by  standifag.'  Some  of  them  are 
v^ry  nice  for  dessert  served  with  appropriate  pudding  sauces,  or  with 
powdered  sugar,  syrup  or  hard  sauce.  Others  are  suitable  for  side- 
dishes  to  accompany  meat.  Be  sure  that  the  batter  is  not  tpo  thick, 
or  else  it  will  be  too  bpown  on  the  outside  before  the  center  is  cooked. 
Do  not  put  a  fork  in  them,  as  this  would  cause  them  to  absorb  lard. 
Remove  with  a. skimmer  or  split  spoon. 

'  Fritter  Batter. — ^Two  Well-beaten  egg  yolks,  1  cup  of  cold  water. 
Beat  into  8  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  If  very  thick,  add  more  water ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter  and  half  teaspoonful  salt.  Beat 
weir,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs,  and  beat  again.  The 
batter  should  pour  thickly  from  the  spoon.  Some  'cooks  use  1  table- 
spoonful  of  olive  oil  instead,  of  butter,  claiming  that  .it  makes  the 
fritters  crisp.  Have  the  kettle  of  fat  deep  enough  to  float  the  fritters, 
the  batter  is  equally  good  for  apples,  banana,  orange,  or  any  kind  of 
fritters,  and  is  also  good  for  dipping  frogs'  legs  in  for  frying. 


CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS.  269 

Dessert  Fritters. — One  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  flbur  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter:   beat  the 
milk  and  flour  together,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  last 
the  whites,   beaten  very  light;   drop  by 
spoonfuls  into,  a  frying-pan  with  plenty  of 
boiling  lard  and  fry  till  they  puff  away 
up.     Eat  hot  with  hard  sauce,  although  | 
children  think  them  superlatively  good  sim- 
ply spread  with  butter  and  sugared.   Omit- 
ting the  sweet  sauce,  these  fritters  can  be 
served  plain  with  meats.     This  rule  can  be 
varied  by  making  it  with  sour  milk  and 
soda,  using  only  2  eggs  and  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  to  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  add  to  the      Moulds  for  Fritters, 
batter  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Clam  Fritters. — Take  25  clams  from  shell ;  if  very  large,  cut  in 
two,  lay  them  on  a "  folded  napkin  to  drain ;  put  into  a  basin  a  pint 
of  flour,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of 
clam  liquor;  beat  the  batter  until  smooth;  then  stir  in  the  clams. 
Put  plenty  of  lard  or  beef  fat  into  a  frying-pan,  let  it  become  boiling 
hot,  put  in  batter  by  spoonful,  brown  on  both  sides  and  serve. 

Oyster  Fritters. — Make  a  batter  of  3  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint 
of  flour  and  ?.  little  salt ;  dip  the  oysters  into  the  batter  and  fry 
quickly  in  hot  lard ;  drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  garnished  with 
parsley. 

Crab  Fritters. — For  a  1-pound  can  use  2  eggs,  well  beaten ;  a 
good  half  teacup  of  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  (melted), 
a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  crackers. 
Mix  with  crab  meat  and  fry  in  butter.  This  makes  7  good-sized' fritters. 

Fish  Roe  Fritters. — Remove  the  skin  from  the  boiled  roe,  beat 
it  up,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  about  a  quarter  of  its  bulk  in 
fine  bread  crumbs,  a  teaspoon  or  so  of  minced  parsley,  and  a  couple, 
of  raw  eggs ;  drop  the  mixture  from  a  tablespoon  into  boiling  butter' 
or  fat,  and  fry  lightly  on  both  sides.     (See  Shad-Roe  Croquettes  for 
preparing  the  roe.) 

Calves'  Brain  Fritters. — Take  the  brains  of  the  calf's  head, 
which  should  be  removed  before  cooking,  boil  them  30  minu^es^ 


270  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS. 

drain,  chop  and  mijc  them  with  a  batter  made^  with  1  egg,  a  little  salt, 
1  cup  of  milk  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Fry  like 
fritters.     Luncheon  dish  or  an  entree. 

Pork  Fritters.— A  nice  breakfast  dish.  Have  some  thin  slices 
of  pork  freshened.  Fry  out  1  or  2'  slices  to  obtain  fat  for  frying  the 
renjainder.  Dip  each  slice  in  a  batter  of  Indian  meal  and  flour,  drop 
into  the  bubbling  fat,  seasohing  with  pepper.  Cook  until  brown,  and 
serve  hot.  The  batter  may  be  made  of  1  beaten  egg,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  meal  sufficient  to  make  a  fritter 
batter.     Season  with  salt  and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper. 

Beef  Fritters.^Cut  cold  roast  beef  into  fine  shreds.  Mak6  a 
batter  of  1  egg,  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  water  or  soup  stock,  1  tea- 
spoonful  butter,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  of  ordinai-y  thickness. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  the  shredded  beef;  drop  by  small 
spoonfuls  into  hot  lard.  Fry  brown,  serve  hot  with  a  slice  of  lemon 
or  some  crisp  dressed  lettuce. 

Tongue  Fritters. — Slice  cold  boiled  tongue,  make  a  batter  as  for 
Beef  Fritters.  Dip  the  slices  of  tongue  in  the  batter  and  fry  a  nice 
brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  beef  driopings  or  other  fat.  Serve  hot 
wij;h  sliced  lemon. 

Ham  Fritters. — ^^One  cuft  ^f  cold  minced  ham,  1  e|^g,  1  cup  of 
soup  stock,  a  saltspoonful  pf  dry  mustard,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Heat 
the  stock  to  boiling  point  and  thicken  with  butter  and-  flour,  rubbed 
together ;  stir  into  it  the  haM  with  the  seasoning ;  add  the  beaten  egg. 
Let  boil  for  a  minute  J  remove  from  fire  to  cool.  When  cold  make  ■ 
into  small  batls,  drop  into  a  batter  made  of  one  cup  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a  small  cup  of  warm  water,  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg  and  a,  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Fry  in  boiling  fat  and 
serve  at  once.     A  luncheon  or  a  side  dish. 

Potato  Fritters. — Beat  up  very  light  some. cold  mashed-'potatoes, 
add  a  little  salt,  2  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  flour  enough  to  make 
it  the  consistency  of  pancake  batter.  Beat  very  smooth,  then  drop 
by  spoonfuls  into  hot  lard  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. 

Tomato  Fritters. — Cook  together  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
After  cooking  10  minutes,  stir  into  it  a , tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one 
of  butter  that  have  been  previously  blended.     Cook  3  minutes  longer 


CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS.  271 

and  rub  through  a  strainer.  Spread  on  a  platter  4  slices  of  svale 
bread,  and  pour  the  strained  tomato  over  them.  Let  this  stand  for 
half  an  hour,  then  turn  the  slices.  Beat  one  egg,  and  dip  the  toast 
first  in  the  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs.  After  that  put  them  into  the 
fi-ying  basket  and  cook  in  boiling  fat  2  minutes.  Drain  well  and 
serve  hot, 

Sumiaer  Squash  Fritters. — Peel  and  boil  tender  young  summer 
squash.     Drain  and  rub  through  a  colander ;  to  a  quart  of  the  pulp 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  season ;  make 
into  small  flat  cakes  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  boiling  fat,  drain  on  paper  ^ 
and  serve  hot. 

Celery  Fritters. — Cut  up  into  two-inch  lengths  the  tender  white 
part  of  a  dozen  or  so  stalks  of  celery,  the  nearer  the  heart  the  better, 
and  plunge  them  into  scalding  water,  Boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  take  them  out  of  the  hot  water,  drain  them,  and  dip  each  separ- 
ately into  a  batter  made  as  for  Beef  Fritters.  Fry  in  hot  fat,  taking 
up  as  fast  as  the  batter  takes  on  a  golden  color.  Drain  on  an  inverted 
sieve,  or  paper.     Serve  hot  on  a  folded  napkin  laid  on  a  platter. 

"fereen  Com  Fritters. — One  dozen  ears  of  corn,  grated  and 
scraped,  or  canned  corn  may  be  used  by  draining  and  mashing  the 
kernels  with  a  potato  masher ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  salt  to  taste ;  stir,  add  2  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
and  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Bake  on  a  well- 
greased  griddle  and  turn.  Test  a  little  at  first  and  add  more  flour,  if 
necessary.  One  tablespoonful  of  sugar  is  an  improvement  to  most 
tastes.  Another  and  better  way  to  fry  is  to  have  ready  a  deep  frying 
pan,  nearly  full  of  boiling  lard.  Drop  in  the  batter  a  spoonful  at  a 
time.  When  a  pale  brown,  remove  with  a  strainer  and  lay  on  a  hot 
dish  for  a  moment  to  drain.     Send  to  the  table  at  once. 

Green  Pea  Fritters* — Canned  peas  will  do.  Three  cups  of  cooked 
peas,  mash  while  hot  with  a  spoon,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter;  put  by  until  morning;  make  a  batter  of  2  whipped  eggs,  a 
*cup  of  milk,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar,  and  half -a  cupful  of  flour;  stir  this  with  the  pea  mixture, 
beating  hard  and  cook  like  griddle  cakes.  One  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  may  be  substituted  for  the  other  rising. 

Cucumlier  Fritters. — A  modern  way  of  serving  cucumbers  is  in 
the  iorm  of  fritters.    For  this,  peel  and  grate,  pressing  out  all  the 


272  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS. 

juice.  Add  half  a  teacup  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  half  a  pint  of  flour,  1 
gill  of  melted  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  4  eggs  sep- 
arately, add  to  the  batter,  and  fry  as  other  fritters.  They  closely  re- 
semble fried  oysters. 

Hominy  Fritters. — Beat  an  egg  and  a  little  milk  into  a  cupful  of 
cold  pearl  hominy.  Add  salt  and  flour ;  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  hot 
butter. 

Spinach  Fritters. — Take  well-cooked  spinach  and  mince  it.  To 
each  cupful  take  one-half  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  scant  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Add  a  cupful  of  cream,  2  eggs  and  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  the  mixture  a  consistent  batter,  and  stir  in 
with  the  flour  a  teaspoonful  of  good  baking  powder.  Drop  into 
boiling  fat  and  let  fry  till  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Cauliflower  Fritters. — Boil  a  cauliflower  for  a  few  minutes  only, 
separate  it  into  sprigs,  and  let  these  lie  in  a  bath,  or  "  marinade  "  of 
seasoned  vinegar  for  a  short  time.  Then  drain;  and  dip  each  one  into 
a  batter  made  with  1  beaten  egg,  a  little  flour  and  a  spoonful  of  milk. 
Fry  in  boiling  fat  until  of  a  delicate  brown,  pile  them  in  the  center  of 
a  dish  and  place  cutlets  around. 

Fruit  Fritters. — The  best  batter  for  fruit  fritters  is  made  as  fol- 
lows : — Mix  the  yolks'of  2  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil,  an 
even  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juicp,  2  teaspoons 
of  sugar.  After  mixing  these  ingredients  add  a  cup  of  flour,  and 
little  by  little  a  gill  of  cold  water.  The  batter  may  now  be  set  aside 
or  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff"  froth  may  be  stirred  into  it 
at  once.  If  it  seems  too  thick,  add  another  white  of  an  egg.  It  must 
be  just  the  proper  consistency  to  coat  the  fruit  thoroughly.  The  fruit 
can  be  sliced  and  dipped  in  the  batter,  or  cut  fine  and  stirred  in  the 
batter,  which  is  then  dropped  by  spoonfuls  in  the  hot  fat.  Oranges 
should  be  cut  iri  small  pieces  and  seeded.  Powdered  sugar  and 
cream  may  be  served  with  them.  Peaches  are  extra  nice  served  in 
this  manner.     Melted  butter  can  be  used  in  place  of  oil. 

Orange  Fritters. — ^Four  oranges,  batter  as  above.  Peel  the 
oranges,  being  careful  to  take  off"  all  the  white  pith.  Divide  through 
the  natural  divisions  of  the  orange.  Seed  if  necessary,  but  a  seedless 
orange  is  best.  Dip  each  piece  into  batter  and  fry  deep  yellow,  in 
plenty  of  lard  made  hot  for  the  purpose ;  serve  on  napkin  with  pow- 
dered sugar. 


CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS.  273 

Currant  Fritters. — (Very  nice.) — Two  cups  dry,  fine  bread 
crumbs  ;  2  tablespoonfuls  prepared  flour ;  2  cups  of  milk ;  one-half 
pound  currants,  washed  and  well  dried ;  5  eggs  whipped  very  light 
and  the  yolks  strained;  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar ;  1  tablespoofiful 
butter;  one-half teaspoonful  mixed  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Boil  the 
milk  and  pour  over  the  bread.  Mix  and  put  in  the  butter.  Let  it 
get  cold.  Beat  in,  next,  the  yolks  and  sugar,  the  seasoning,  flour 
and  stiff  whites ;  finally,  the  currants  dredged  whitely  with  flour. 
The  batter  should  be  thick.  Drop  in  great  spoonfuls  into  the  hot 
lard  and  fry.  Drain  them  and  send  hot  to  table.  Eat  with  wine 
sauce,  or  some  other  preferred  pudding  sauce. 

Peach,  Fritters. — A  favorite  New  England  delicacy  is  called 
peach  fritters.  Make  a  batter  from  1  quart  of  flour,  1  cup  of  luke- 
warm milk  and  three-quarters  of  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little 
water.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place :  this  will  take  from  4  to  5  hours. 
When  light  add  to  the  mixture  3  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix 
with  the  hands  as  you  wOuld  raise  biscuit.  Break  off  small  pieces  of 
the  dough  and  spread  out  thin  with  the  hand.  In  the  center  place  a 
peach  that  has  been  cut  in  half  and  the  stone  removed.  Roll  the 
dough  around  it  to  make  a  ball  and  leave  on  the  moulding  board  to 
rise  the  second  time.  When  again  light  fry  slowly  in  very  hot  lard. 
The  fritters  are  to  be  eaten  with  powdered  sugar  or  a  liquid  lemon 
sauce. 

Pineapple  Fritters. — Separate  2  eggs ;  add  to  the  yolks  1  cup  of 
cream.  Put  1  ^  cups  flour  in  a  bowl ;  add,  mixing  all  the  while,  1 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter ;  stir  in  the  eggs  and  milk.  Beat  hard ; 
add  }l  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stir  in  carefully  the  well-beaten  whites. 
Pare  the  pineapple  several  hours  before  frying  time.  Cut  it  into  thin 
slices ;  cover  with  sugar,  and,  if  you  like,  a  little  wine.  When  ready 
to  use,  add  1  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  to  batter,  dip  each 
slice  of  pineapple,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  oil.  Drain  on  paper ;  serve 
with  powdered  sugar.     Other  fat  can  be  substituted  for  the  oil. 

Pineapple  Fritters. — II.  Take  a  small  can  of  shredded  pineapple, 
and  turn  it  Into  a  mixing  bowl ;  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  a 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  scant  pint  of  flour,  and  cold  water 
sufficient  to  make' a  batter  that  will  drop  from  the  end  of  a  spoon. 
Just  before  baking  stir  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  stiff  into  this  bat- 
COOK— 18 


274  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS. 

ter,  and  fry  like  doughnuts  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  fat.  Lift  out  with  a 
skimmer ;  lay  on  brown  paper  for  a  moment  and  dust  with  powdered 
sugar.     Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Strawberry  Fritters.^ — Stem  nice,  solid,  large  berries;  dust  them 
with  sugar,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Beat  2  eggs  without 
separating,  add  1  gill  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  light  batter  (1  cup).  Add  %  teaspoonful 
salt,  an  even  teaspoonful  baking  powder  and  beat  well.  Toss  in  a  few 
berries,  cover  them  with  the  batter,  and  drop  carefully  in  smoking 
hot  oil.  Serve  hot,  dusted  with  powdered  sugar.  Hot  lard  can  be 
used  instead  of  oil.  Have  it  at  least  2  inches  deep  in  the  kettle. 
Fry  a  gold  color. 

Pear  Fritters. — Cook  some  pears  tender  in  syrup,  drain  and 
cool,  cut  in  quarters,  dip  in  fritter  batter,  fry  brown  in  hoflat  and 
serve  with  powdered  sugar  or  sweet  sauce. 

Apple  Fritters. — Core  and  pare  large  tart  apples.  Cut  them  in 
slices  about  on6-third  of  an  inch  thick.-  Season  the  slices  with  nut- 
meg, then  ~dip  them  in  the  batter.  See  Fruit  Fritters.  Dipt  them  one 
by  one  from  the  batter  and  drop  them  into  the  hot  fat.  '  Cook  for  3 
minutes,  then,  lift  from  the  fat,  drain  and  serve  immediately.  Pow- 
dered sugar  may  be  sprinkled  on  the  fritters  when  they  are  arranged 
on  the  dish.  Maple  syrup  is  als6  nice  to  serve  with  them.  Peach 
fritters  are  made  in  the  same  way.  If  apples  that  cook  easily  cannot 
be  obtained,  cover  with  water  and  cQpk  until  half  done.  Drain  and 
,cp6l.  If  a  sauce  is  desired  with  the  fritters,  make  one  as  follows: 
Sauce :  One-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  water ;  when  boiling 
add  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  water ;  flavor  with  1 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  It  is  an 
improvement  to  sprinkle  the  apples  with  lemon  juice  before  dipping 
in  the  batter.     A  nice  dessert.    ; 

Banana  Fritters.— Make  the  fruit  fritter  batter,  or  any  preferred 
batter.  Slice  bananas  about  one-half  inch  thick";  dip  into  the  batter 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Sprinkling  the  bananas  with  a  little  lemon  or 
orange  juice  will  iiiiprpve  the  flavor.  Take  up  each  slice  of  banana 
with  about  a  spoonful  of  the  batter.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them 
and  serve.  A  dainty  dessert.  If  a  sauce  is  wished,  the  following  is 
suitable.  Lemon  Sauce :  Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  1  cup  water  together 
15  minutes;  remove  from  the  stove,  and,  when  cooled  a  little,  aiid. 


CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS.  275 

one-half  teaspoon  extract  of  lemon  and  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice ; 
more  juice  can  be  added,  if  liked  quite  tart. 

Apricot  Fritters. — Cover  with  water  and  stew  evaporated  apri- 
cots until  tender,  adding  when  half  done  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  2 
tablespoons  to  every  cup  of  juice.  When  the  apricots  are  tender 
take  them  out,  leaving  the  syrup  to  reduce  by  boiling  until  quite 
thick.  Dip  each  piece  of  apricot  into  a  frying  batter  made  of  a  cup 
of  flour,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  a  sijiall  cup  of  warm  milk  and 
the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  light.  Drop  these  fritters  into  boiling 
deep  fat.  When  done  lay  on  a  piece  of  brown  paper  in  a  colander 
a  few  minutes.     Transfer  to  a  hot  dish  and  pour  hot  syrup  over  them. 

Coffee  Fritters. — Soak  in  strong  freshly-made  coffee  some  thick 
slices  of  stale  bread.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  1  or  2  eggs,  flavoring 
them  with  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  strong  coffee ;  brush  the  slices 
of  bread  with  this,  and  fry  at  once  in  hot  butter ;  when  crisp,  serve 
hot,  sprinkled  with  sifted  sugar. 

Bread  Fritters. — One  quart  milk,  boiling  hot ;  2  cups  fine  bread 
crumbs ;  3  eggs ;  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg ;  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter; 

1  saltspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Soak  the  bread  in  the  boiling  milk  10  minutes  in  a  covered  bowl. 
Beat  to  a  smooth  paste ;  add  the  whipped  yolks,  the  butter,  salt,  soda 
and  finally  the  whites,  whipped  stiff.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  boiling 
lard.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Cream  Fritters. — Stir  the  whites  of  5  eggs,  1  cup  of  thin  cream, 

2  full  cups  of  flour  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt  together  and 
beat  hard  for  three  minutes.  Fry  in  plenty  of  hot  lard,  using  a  table- 
spoonful  of  batter  for  each  fritter.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
put  a  spoonful  of  jelly  or  jam  on  each  one  when  served. 

Cream  Puff  Fritters. — A  very  nice  fritter  is  made  from  a  batter 
similar  to  that  used  for  cream  cakes  and  eclaires.  Put  a  cup  of  milk, 
or  water,  over  the  fire  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  When  the  mix- 
ture boils  add  one-half  cup  of  sifted  flour  and  stir  thoroughly.  Then 
add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  when  the  batter 
has  cooled  a  little  add  the  jrolks  of  4  eggs,  and  finally  the  whites  of  2 
'  eggs.  The  batter  should  be  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  on  a  board.  _^Cut 
it  in  fritters  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  and  fry.  They  rise  to  an 
immense  size,  as  they  are  merely  shells.  These  can  be  made  with 
just  a  stiff  batter  and  dropped  by  spoonfuls  in  the  fat. 


276  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERa 

Custard  Fritters. — A  custard  fritter  is  a  very  delicate  variety. 
Measure  out  a  cupful  of  milk,  add  it  to  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  poqr- 
ing  the  milk  over  it  very  gradually  to  make  a  smooth  batter.  Then 
add  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  cook  the  batter  in  a  double  boiler  for  20 
minutes.  At  the  end  of  this  time  add  2  yolks  of  eggs,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Let  the  mixture  boil  up  over  the 
stove  for  a  minute  or  two  longer,  beating  it  carefully  to  thoroughly 
mix  it.  Pour  it  into  a  long,  greased  pan  of  proper  size,  and  spread 
it  to  the  depth  of  1  inch.  Let  it  become  thoroughly  chilled.  It  is 
just  as  well  to  stand  over  night. 

The  next  day  cut  it  in  long  pieces,  about  2  inches  by  3;  dip  it  in 
beaten  eggs,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  handling  it  very  gently,  as  it 
is  soft.  Fry  it  in  hot  fat  until  it  is  a  golden  brown,  and  serve  at 
once.  These  are  delicious  fritters  when  flavored  with  a  very  little 
bitter  almond  or  some  grated  orange  peel.  They  may  be  made  into 
an  excellent,  savory  fritter  by  omitting  the  sugar  and  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Parmesan  cheese  and  a  pinch  of  scayenne  pepper.  Serve 
with  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Jam  Fritters.- — Any  sweet ,  raised  dough  may  be  used,  rusk  or 
buns.  Let  rise  until  very  light.  Roll  out  very  thin.  Cut  in  circles 
with  a  cooky  cutter.  Heap  a  teaspoonful  of  raspberry  jam  in  the 
center  of  half  the  circles.  Moisten  the  edges  of  the  other  circles 
with  water  and  put  them  carefully  over  those  which  have  been  heaped 
with  jam,  pressing  the  edges  very  carefully  together.  Fry  the  fritters 
at  once  in  hot  fat,  dredge  them  with  sugar  and  serve. 

i  Bread  Fritters. — Shape  raised  bread  dough  in  light,  round 
cakes,  and  leave  on  the  bread-board  to  rise  for  a  short  time.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  like  a  doughnut.     Serve  with  maple  syrup. 

Grabam  Fritters. — Make  a  regular  muffin  batter.  Have  a'kettle 
of  hot  fat,  deep  enough  and  hot  enough  to  cook  doughnuts.  Dip  a 
tablespbon  into  milk,  take  up  a  spoonful  of  the  batter,  smooth  it  in 
rounded  form  on  top,  and  slip  it  carefully  into  the  smoking  fat,  hold- , 
ing  the  tablespoon  quite  near  the  fat.  Then  dip  the  tablespoon  in 
milk  again  and  repeat  the  operation  until  about  6  muffins  (or  half  the 
batter)  are  in  the  kettle.  Turn  the  muffins  and  let  them  cook  about 
10  minutes.  Take  them  up  with  a  wire  spoon  to  drain  them,  and 
lay  them  on  coarse  brown  paper  to  absorb  any  grease  on  the  outside. 
Fry  the  remaining  muffins  and  serve  them. 


The  true  value  of  salads  is  n6t  yet  wholly 
appreciated,  nor  yet  the  different  combina- 
tions of  which  they  are  susceptible,  nor  the 
f"'  little  economies  which  they  may  tastefully  mask,  nor 
the  epicurean  extravagance  to  which  they  may  cater. 
Granted  that  lettuce  be  the  leading  green ;  by  the  addition  of  fish, 
meat,  Vegetables,  etc.,  upward  of  a  hundred  different  salads  may  be  con- 
cocted. When  lettuce  is  not  available,  celery  supplies  its  place,  though 
in  rather  mediocre  fashion.  Fresh  salads  should  not  lie  long  in 
water,  the  withered  only  long  enough  to  crisp  the  leaves.  The  outer 
ones  to  be  thrown  away,  the  inner  ones  to  be  parted,  well  rinsed  and 
examined,  and  if  necessary  plunged  into  salt  and  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes. This  may  free  the  leaves  from  any  insects  that  may  cling  to 
them. 

Lettuce  can  be  kept  crisp  and  fresh  for  several  days  if  necessary 
by  placing  the  roots  in  water.  Do  not  let  the  water  come  up  as 
high  as  the  leaves.  When  ready  to  serve  the  lettuce  wash  it,  leaf  by 
leaf,  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  drop  each  le^f  into  another  pan  of  ice 
water.  It  will  become  crisp  in  a  few  minutes.  Shake  the  water  from 
the  leaves  before  serving.  It  is  not  necessary  to  have  fresh  and  green 
things  for  all  salads.  It  is  often  the  case  that  a  small  portion  of  food 
left  over  from  a  meal  can  be  used  to  make  a  nice  salad.  A  saucer  of 
cold  beans,  either  baked  or  boiled,  especially  limas,  a  couple  of  cold 
potatoes  with  a  small  minced  onion,  some  chopped  parsley,  a  slice  or 
two  of  beet  and  a  hard-boiled  egg ;  a  little  cold  fish  freed  from  bones 
and  skin ;  cold  veal,  lamb  or  chicken,  will  each  make  a  nice  salad 
with,  the  aid  of  a  few  lettuce  leaves,  a  little  chopped  celery  (for  the 
meat  salads)  and  a  ipayonnaise. 

A  bottle  of  good  salad  dressing  is  a  good  thing  to  have  in  the 
house  for  use  in  emergencies,  but  if  you  are  an  adept  at  making 
mayonnaise  you  will  prefer,  as  a  rule,  to  make  your  own  dressing. 
Convenience,  utility  and  toothsomeness  are  among  the  qualifica- 
tions of  good  salads,  but  when  we  add  to  these  their  unquestioned 

277 


278  SALADS. 

claims  toward  the  healthful  nourishment  of  the  human  body,  we  have 
an  article  of  food  not  to  be  lightly  treated.  "Salad  is  nature's  lubri- 
cant for  the  animal  machine,"  says  Mrs.  Rorer,  one  of  the  modern 
authorities  on  cookery.  "  People  who  do  not  eat  salads  have  pimples 
and  blotches  and  headaches." 

The  olive,  that  is  the  basis  of  all  mayonnaise  dressings,  is  one  of 
the  best  healing  and  fattening  substances  to  be  found,  and  thin  and 
nervous  people  especially  should  learn  to  use  it  freely.  Salads  are 
served  at  dinners  as  a  separate  course,  usually  having  bread  sticks, 
water  crackers  or  toasted  crackers  served  with  them.  Or,  sometimes 
they  are  served  with  the  game  course. 

A  new  fad  is  that  cream  cheese,  home-made  currant  jelly  and 
fresh  unsweetened  water  crackers  are  fashionably  and  most  acceptably 
served  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  a  French  dressing.  The  com- 
bination of  flavors  is  to  many  tastes  a  very  pleasant  one. 

Every  woman  should  learn  the  art  of  dressing  a  green  salad  at 
the  table,  for  a  salad  dressed  before  it  is  served  loses  delicacy  of 
flavor.  The  salad  greens  should  be  carefully  dried.  It  is  better  not 
to  use  a  steel  knife  to  cut  it  up  if  it  can  be  avoided.  Some  people 
always  pull  the  leaves  into  small  pieces,  others  cut  the  lettuce  with  a 
silver  fruit  knife.  Most  people  like  a  slight  flavor  of  chopped  or 
grated  onion.  Some  rub  the  salad  bowl  with  a  piece  of  cut  garlic, 
while  others  invariably  use  a  little  tarragon  vinegar.  The  oil  should 
be  very  fresh,  and  if  the  vinegar  is  too  sour,  a  piece  or  two  of  sugar 
should  be  added  to  the  dressfng.  French  dressing  can  be  made  at 
table  very  nicely. 

The  salad  of  whatever  kind  must  be  served  in  a  glass  salad  bowl, ' 
says  custom,  and  it  must  always  have  at  least  an  encircling  wreath  of 
green  leaves  to  frame  it.     Meat  of  any  kind  used  for  salads  should 
be  cut  into  dice,  but  not  smaller  than  one-half  inch  or  it  will  seem 
like  hash. 

A  new  way  of  serving  any^nely  cut  salad  is  to  take  a  large  green 
cucumber,  cut  the  ends  off  and  take  a  slice  lengthwise  from  one  side 
until  the  heart  is  reached.  Remove  this  carefully  and  fill  the  little 
green  boat  with  salad.  Let  it  rest  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve  one  to  each  persen  present. 

Vegetable  salads  are  delicious  and  serve  to  spur  the  jaded  appe- 
tite.    Speaking  in  generalities,  the  principal  vegetables  and  their  ap- 


SALABS.  279 

propriate  dressings  are  as  follows :  Asparagus,  cauHftower,  tomatoea 
are  served  with  mayonnaise.  Cabbage,  cucumbers,  lettuce,  dandelion, 
green  beans,  cooked,  are  served  with  French  dressing.  Potato  salad 
with  cream  dressing.  Cabbage  and  tomatoes  also  may  be  served 
with  a  boiled  dressing.  These  rules,  however,  are  not  arbitrary,  as 
there  are  other  delicious  made  dressings  used  with  these  salads. 

Chicken  Salad. — One  large,  cold,  boiled  chicken,  3  heads  of 
celery,  white  part,  cut  in  small  dice.  Equal  amount  of  white  cab- 
bage, chopped.  Remove  skin  and  fat  from  the  chicken,  cut  the  light 
and  dark  meat  in  small  dice  and  drop  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Mix 
all  together. 

Dressing. — Ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard, 
1  teaspoonful,  level,  of  black  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  two- 
thirds  cupful  salad  oil  or  melted  butter,  1  cupful  vinegar.  Rub  the 
yolks^  of  the  eggs  with  the  oil  or  butter  (oil  taken  from  the  chicken 
liquor  is  better  in  this  case  than  either),  stir  in  the  mustard,  pepper, 
salt  and  vinegar.  Mix  this  dressing  up  with  the  salad.  Shape;  as 
compactly  in  the  salad  bowl  as  possible.  Garnish  with  a  double  row 
of  olives  (serve  two  or  three  with  each  helping  of  salad),  or  with 
some  greens.  Cabbage  can  be  used  entirely  if  celery  is  not  conve- 
nient. In  this  case  a  hewing  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed  soaked  over 
night  in  the  vinegar  will  improve  the  flavor.  Strain  before  using. 
Equal  parts  of  chicken  and  veal  make  a  delicious  salad,  and  are  very 
convenient  where  the  chicken  is  scanty.  Lean,  fresh  pork  can  be 
used  to  "  piece  out." 

Chicken  Salad  with  Cooked  Dressing. — ^Take  1-pound  can  of 
chicken,  cut  fine  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper ;  take  the 
perfect,  outer  leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce  to  place  on  the  salad  dish, 
and  the  inner  crisp  leaves  cut  fine,  and  mix  with  the  seasoned  chicken. 
Wash  all  the  lettuce ;  place  the  mixed  chicken  and  lettuce  on  the 
leaves  in  the  dish  and  put  in  a  cobl  place  until  ready  to  serve.  It  is 
best  to  make  the  dressing  in  the  morning,  cool  and  not  mix  the  salad 
until  wanted,  as  the  lettuce  will  not  keep  crisp  long. 

Dressing.-^¥o\ir  well-beaten  eggs,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  1  level 
teaspoonful  mustard,  dissolving  in  1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  3  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  lialf  cupful  vinegar,  half  cupful  sour  cream,  half 
cupful  vinegar.  Cook  by  putting  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 
stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  cool  before  pouring  over  salad. 


280  SALADS. 

Chicken  Salad  witli  Cream  Dressing. — Make  the  salad  -accord* 
ing  to  the  first  rule,  using,  if  it  is  to  be  a  company  dish,  the  white 
meat  only,  and  for  dressing  take  Cream  Dressing,  given  in  "Salad 
Dressings."     Do  not  mix  up  with  the  sakd,  but  pour  over  the  top. 

Chicken  Salad  en  Mayonnaise. — ^Boil  a  chicken  until  it  is  ten- 
der. When  it  is  cold  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Then  mix  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Take  fresh  curled  leftuce  leaves,  and  in  each 
place  a  generous  salad  spoonful  of  the  "  dressed  "  chicken  and  spread 
over  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  this  having 
been  put  aside  before  the  mixing.  Upon  the  yellow  of  the  "  dress- 
ing" on  each  lettuce  leaf  about  a  dozen  capers  should  be  sprinkled. 

Turkey  Salad.— Take  equal  parts  of  the  white  meat  of  the  tur- 
key and  blanched  celery,  chop  together  until  fine.  Boil  3  eggs  hard, 
remove  the  yolks  and  add  the  whites  cut  in  bits  to  the  salad.  Mash 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  flour,  add  sweet  cream  gradually  until  you 
have  a  cup  of  egg  cream ;  flavor  this  with  onion  juicej  salt  and  pep- 
per. Now  add  2  tablespoonfuls-  of  oil  and  6  of  vinegar  and  pour 
over  the  salad.  Place  On  ice  half  an  hour  before  it  goes  to  table. 
Melted  butter  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  salad  oil.  A  mayonnaise 
dressing  can  also  lae  used. 

Duck  Salad. — ^A  delicious  salad  may  be  made  with  duck.  Boil 
a  duck  until  it  is  tender  and  remove  the  meat  from  the  bones.  When 
cold  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  the  meat^into  small  pieces.  Cook 
half  a  can  of  small  mushrooms  and  cut  them  in  quarters.  Have  as 
much  crisp-cut  celery  as  you  have  mushrooms.  Fill  a  flat  dish  with 
lettuce  leaves,  and  lay  the  pieces  of  duck  on  the  lettuce,  then  the- 
mushrooms  and  the  celery.  Garnish  the  dish  with  sliced  cucumbers 
and  stars  cut  from  cooked  carrots.  Serve  with  French  dressing,  or 
mayonnaise  if  preferred. 

Veal  Salad. — Chop  a  piece  of  lean,  cold  veal  (roast  or  boiled). 
Add  nearly  as  much  celery  or  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  and 
season  with  celery  salt  if  celery  cannot  be  obtained.  Mix  when  cold 
with  the  following  dressing:  One  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  1  table" 
spoonful  sugar.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  on  the  stove  until  hot.  Then 
add  3  eggs  well  beaten  and  1  cupful  vinegar.  Almost  any  preferred 
salad  dressing  can  be  used.         > 

Corned  Beef  Salad.-r-Chop  1  or  2  pounds  of  cold  corned  beef 
fine,  then  take  two-thirds  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  mustard  and  1 


SALADS.  281 

egg ;  beat  all  together  and  pour  into  the  frying-pan,  and  let  it  boil  up ; 
then  stir  in  the  chopped  meat  thoroughly, 'cook  about  3  minutes,  and 
put  in  a  deep  dish  to  cool ;  cut  in  slices. 

Ham  Salad.^-One  cup  of  cold  ham  chopped  (from  which  all  fat 
has  been  cut  away),  1  cup  of  sliced  cucumber  pickles,  3  harc^boiled 
eggs.  Arrange  ham  and  cucumbers  in  layers,  saving  sliced  eggs  for 
top ;  pour  cream  dressing  over ;  garnish  with  dlives  (looks  well  with 
only  the  eggs  for  garnish).  Serve  with  the  following  dressings  or 
\any  other  preferred  one  :  One  tablespoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful 
mustard,  1  tablespoonful  sugar  (may  be  omitted  if  wished),  1  table- 
spoonful fldur,  a  very  little, red  pepper,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  cupful  vine- 
gar. Heat  vinegar  and  butter  together.  When  boiling  stir  in  the 
other  ingredients,  which  have  been  previously  well  mixed.  Cook  3 
minutes.    A  good  dressing  and  will  keep  several  days  if  bottled. 

Tongue  Salad. — The  small  end  of  a  cold  boiled  tongue  can  be 
utilized  for  an  appetizing  salad.  Chop  fine  and  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  celery  or  lettuce,  and  dressing  from  any  of  the  above  rules. 

Cold  Pork  Salad, — Very  nice  salad  can  be  made  from  th^  lean 
of  cold  roast  pork.     Prepare  sauce  as  for  veal  salad. 

Ltamb  Salad. — Any  nice  cold  lamb  left  from  dinner  <  an  be  used 
for  this  purpose.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
celery  or  lettuce  shredded  fine,  or  coW  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice 
and  seasoned  with  celery  salt.  For  the  dressing  take  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  half  a  teacupful  of  vinegar.     Cook  until  it  thickens. 

Sweet-Bread  Salad. — Clean  and  cook  a  pair  of  sweet-breads  ac- 
cording to  directions  given  in  "  Meats."  When  cold  slice,  mix  with 
chopped  lettuce  or  celery,  and  one-half  the  amount  of  cold  boiled 
potatoes  sliced.  Serve  with  any  prepared  dressing.  Line  the  salad 
bowl  with  lettuce  leaves. 

Oyster  and  Celery  Salad. — One  quart  of  oysters  drained  and  cut 
in  dice,  1  bunch  of  celery  cut  in  bits.  Keep  the  oysters  in  a  cool  place. 

Dressing. — One  raw  egg,  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  table- 
spoonful olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  pepper,  salt 
and  made  mustard,  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar.  Whip  the  raw  ^g^  with 
the  oil  or  butter.  Rub  the  hard  boiled  yolks  with  the  seasoning. 
Mix  with  the  raw  egg  and  beat  in  the  vinegar  slowly.  Mix  the 
oysters  and  celery  together  with  one-half  the  dressing.     Turn  in  the 


282  SALADS. 

salad,  first  lining  it  with  lettuce  leaves.     Pour  over  it  the  remainder 
of  the  dressing.     Garnish. 

Ijobster  Salad. — Take  a  good  sized  fresh  boiled  lobster,  cut  into 
small  pieces  with  a  sharp  knife.  Take  1  large  or  2  small  heads  of 
lettuce,  wash,  cut  the  tender  inside  leaves  in  small  pieces  and  mix 
with  the  lobster  and  some  of  the  dressing.  Take  a  flat  dish  and 
arrange  the  larger  leaves  (not  the  outside  ones)  in  shells,  and  put  a 
large  spoonful  in  each  with  a  spoonful  of  dressing  on  top.  ' 

Dressing. — One  tablespoonful  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  2 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  or  olive  oil,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  or 
sour  milk,  1  cupful  of  vinegar,  2  eggs.  Mix  the  mustard  in  part  of 
the  vinegar,  add  the  rest  of  the  vinegar  and  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  butter  and  stir  in  the  milk,  then  stir  the  whole  into  the  vinegar 
and  mustard,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  set  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Stir 
briskly  or  it  will  burn.  This  must  be  very  cold  before  using.  This 
dressing  is  also  good  on  chicken  salad,  substituting  cold  boiled 
chicken  for  lobster.  It  is  better  not  to  mix  the  lobster  and  lettuce 
until  just  before  serving.     Set  on  ice  until  wanted. 

liObster  Salad. — II.  The  meat  from  2  boiled  lobsters  picked  fine. 
Mix  with' the  same  quantity  of  lettuce,  cabbage  or  celery  cut  fine. 
Or,  instead  of  mixing,  put  lobster  and  lettuce  or  cabbage  in  the  dish 
in  alternate  layers.  Make  the  following  dressing  and  pour  over  the 
whole  when  ready  to  serve. 

Dressing. — Yolk  of  3  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed  fine,  3  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter  or  salad  oil,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard,  pepper 
and  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  vinegar.  Beat  together 
,thoroughly.  Garnish  the  salad  bowl  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut 
in  rings.  Lay  each  white  ring  on  a  small,  curly  lettuce  leaf  The 
small  claws  x>f  the  lobster  are  also  used  by  some  with  the  green 
garnish. 

Salmon  Salad. — One  can  of  salmon,  drain  from  the  oil.  The  same 
amount  of  celery  or  lettuce  chopped,  pick  the  salmon  in  flakes. 
Arrange  the  salmon  and  celery  in  layers  in  the  salad  bowl,  and  pour 
over  it  the  following  dressing  : 

Dressing. — One-quarter  cupful  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  mustard,  1^ 
tablespoonful  sugar,  1  tablespoonful>^  flour,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Some  cooks  omit  sugar ;  some  use  cayenne  pep- 
per.    If  too  thick,  thin  carefully  with  a  little  milk  or  cream. 


SALADS.  283 

Fish  Salad. — Nearly  all  kinds  of  cold  fish  can  be  made  into 
salads.  Free  the  fish  from  skin  and  bone,  flake  or  chop  coarsely. 
Add  to  it  the  same  quantity  of  chopped  cabbage,  celery  or  lettuce. 
Line  the  salad  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  if  convenient.  Heap  in  the 
salad  lightly  and  pour  over  it  mayonnaise  or  some  preferred  salad 
dressing;  some  of  those  used  for  salmon  dressing  will  be  found  good 
Garnish  with  tiny  pickles  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Crab  Salad. — Boil  25  hard-shell  crabs  for  about  20  or  25  minutes. 
When  cool  remove  the  top  shell  and  tail ;  quarter  the  remainder,  and 
pick  out  the  meat  carefully  with  a  fork.  The  large  claws  should  not 
be  overlooked,  nor  the  fat  which  adheres  tq  the  shell.  Cut  up  an 
amount  of  celery  equal  in  bulk  to  the  crab  meat;  mix  both  together 
with  a  plain  salad  dressing.  Put  in  a  salad  bowl,  and  mask  with  a 
mayonnaise  dressing ;  garnish  with  crab  claws,  shrimps  and  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

Anchovy  Salad. — Remove  the  bones,  head  and  tails  of  6  anchovies. 
Wash  2  heads  of  lettuce,  cut  them  small,  and  place  on  a  dish.  Add 
6  button  onions  chopped  finely,  parsley,  sliced  lemon,  and  anchovies. 
Pour  over  the  juice  of  a  lemon  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  oil. 

Shrimp  Salad. — Line  a  salad  bowl  with  fresh  lettuce  leaves ;  open 
a  can  of  shrimps,  put  on  the  lettuce,  pour  over  mayonnaise  dressing, 
garnish  with  rings  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Egg  Salad. — Chop  heart  lettuce,  or  else  tender  cabbage,  or  celery 
or  a  mixture,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  (oil  if  liked), 
and  with  a  teaspoon  place  it  as  a  border  on  the  dishes.  Slice  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  put  4  slices  to  each  individual  dish.  Pour  over  the 
eggs  either  a  salad  dressing  made  without  oil  or  a  mayonnaise.  Or 
use  this  :  Take  a  bowl  that  will  fit  the  top  of  your  tea-kettle;  put  in 
it  1  egg,  beaten  thoroughly,  quarter  cup  of  vinegar,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Steam  it  over  the  kettle  until  it 
thickens  like  cream.  When  cold  pour  over  the  eggs  and  sprinkle 
pepper  over  the  whole.     The  eggs  may  be  sliced. 

Sardine  Salad  en  Mayonnaise. — Chop  very  fine  a  small  head  of 
cabbage  and  4  or  5  sardines  ;  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  whole  sardine  on  top  of  each  one. 
Any  lobster  salad  dressing  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  mayonnaise. 

Chestnut  Salad. — Made  from  the  large  Italian  chestnuts.  These 
are  blanched  and  peeled  and  cooked  until  tender,  in  boiling  water, 


284  SALADS. 

slightly  salted.  They  are  then  taken  out  and  carefully  dried,  when 
they  are  sliced  and  tossed  into  a  little  mayonnaise  and  shirred  on  let- 
tuce hearts.  Try  this  for  an  entree  of  your  Thanksgiving  dinner, 
and  we  are  convinced  it  will  prove  satisfactory. 

Walnut  Salad. — A  delicious  salad  combines  English  walnuts, 
water-cresses  and  sour  oranges.  You  will  need  thirty  nuts  with  the 
meats  divided  in  halves ;  lay  these  on  a  layer  of  the  oranges,  sliced 
thin,  and  sprinkle  them  well  with  lemon  juice.  Stand  in  a  cool  place 
for  half  a  day,  and  when  ready  to  use  arrange  in  a  bed  of  cresses,  3 
pint  at  least,  and  serve  with  a  French  dressing  and  wafers. 

Celery  Salad. — 'One  good-sized  bunch  of  celery;  2  tablespoon^ 
fuls  best  salad  oil,  1  of  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne.  Wash  and  scrape  the  celery  and  lay  in  cold  water 
an  hour.  Cut  in  half  inch  bits,  or  chop  coarsely  if  preferred,  and  put 
in  a  salad  bowl.  Mix  the  pepper  and  salt,  add  the  oil  slowly  and 
then  the  vinegar,  and  stir  thoroughly  into  the  celery.  Serve  with 
crackers  and  cheese.  Equal  parts  of  celery  and  chopped  white  cab- 
bage can  be  used  if  celery  is  not  plentiful. 

Waldorf  Celery  Salad. — Equal  quantities  of  celery  and  chopped 
raw  sour  apples  diressed  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  This  is  served 
with  game,  being  in  reality  a  game  salad.  Alligator  pears  may  be 
used  instead  of  apples. 

Celery  Slaw. — Take  1  root  of  good  white  celery*  and  cut  off  all 
the  green  leaves,  put  it  in  the  tray  and  chop  fine,  then  put  it  in  a  dish 
and  Gait  it,  and  put  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  over  it  and  the  same  of 
vinegar,  and  let  it  stand  about  5  minutes,  and  when  ready  put  it  on 
the  table ;  put  3  tablespoons  of  cream  over  it ;  it  is  very  nice.  The 
cream  can  be  omitted  if  desired. 

Cabbage  Salad  a  la  Creme. — Cut  a  solid,  tender  head  of  cabbage 
very  fine,  and  place  it  in  a  deep  dish.  Put  in  a  saucepan  over  a  rather 
hot  fire  1  cupful  of  thick  sour  cream.  Stir  in  while  heating  1  well- 
beaten  egg.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  made  inustard  and 
'sugar,  and  butter  the  size'  of  an  egg,  with  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and 
salt.  While  cooking  stir  in  half  a'cupful  of  strong  vinegar.  This 
makes  a  smooth,  thick  dressing,  with  a  delicate  creamy  taste.  Pour 
over  the  cabbage  while  hot  and  mix  thoroughly.  One-half  as  much 
chopped  celery  can  be  added  to  the  ca,bbage  as  a  great  improvement 
A  little  more  sugar  can  be  added  to  the  dressing  if  liked. 


SALADS.  285 

»  Gabbag^e  Salad,  Hot,  with  Cooked  Dressing. — One  head  of  cab- 
bage chopped  fine,  3  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cold  Slaw. — Raw  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, sugar,  and  moistened  with  vinegar,  makes  an  excellent  salad.  It 
may  be  served  with  this  dressing :  Two  level  tablespoons  each  of 
salt  and  white  sugar,  1  of  black  pepper,  1  of  ground  mustard ;  rub 
smoothly  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  half  a  cup  of  butter 
slightly  warmed,  mix  with  the  cabbage  (this  will  be  sufficient  for  2 
quarts)  and  add  a  teacup  of  vinegar.  Serve  with  ^:he  whites  of  the 
eggs  sliced  and  placed  on  the  salad.  '  •'-   ' 

Cold  Slaw  a  la  Creme. — Shave  one-fourth  of  a  cabbage  quite  fine 
and  roll  with  a  rolling  pin  to  soften  it ;  mix  thoroughly  with  a  little 
salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  vinegar ;  throw  over  this  a  half  cupful  of 
sweet  cream,  and  allow  it  to  stand  before  serving. 

Hot  Slaw.: — Take  one-half  of  a  firm,  white  head  of  cabbage;  cut 
into  fine  pieces  and  put  in  a  pan  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  about  the 
same  quantity  of  pepper  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
adding  a  teacupful  of  vinegar  and  half  that 
quantity  of  water.  Cover  and  cook  until 
cabbage  becomes  tender.     Stir  frequently. 

Potato  Salad.— ^Chop  6  or  8  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  mince  1  onion.  Mix  with  the 
following  dressing  :  One-half  cupful  vine- 
gar, 1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  or  salad 
oil,  pepper  and  isalt  to  taste,  add  a  little  tf-     i  . . 

chopped  parsley,  stir  thoroughly,  mound  it  V-- 

up  nicely  on  a  pretty  plate  and  put  sprays    ^         "^-^^^^^^^ 

of  parsley  around  the  edge,  or  serve  lightly  „  .  ^    _„.~  ^ 

"^    ,  .  ,    ,  ,       ,     \r  .1  •        ^.  Potato  Slioer. 

tossed  in  a  salad  bowl.     If  there  is  not  ^"""-uu  ouobx. 

enough  moisture,  add  a  little  more  vinegar  and  butter.     Potatoes  for 

a  salad  do  not  want  to  be  too  mealy. 

Potato  Salad. — II.  Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  8  or  10,  mince  a. 
large  onion,  mix,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  them 
in  the  salad  bowl  any  of  the  hot  boiled  dressings  used  for  cabbage 
slaw.     Serve,  hot  or  let  become  perfectly  cold.     Garnish  with  parsley. 
Onion  can  be  omitted  if  not  liked. 

Potato  Salad  with  a  French  Dressing. — Prepare  the  potatoes  as 
above,  season  with  chopped  parsley,  pour  over  them  a  French  dressing. 


286  SALADS. 

Mrs.  Y.'s  Potato  Salad  Dpessinff.—Butter  size  of  a  large  egg. 
Two  medium  sliced  onions  fried  in  the  butter  5  minutes  without 
browning.  Yolks  of  4  eggs,  or  2  whole  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  cupful 
vinegar.  Grate  the  rind  of  1  lemon,,  add  these  to  the  butter  and 
onions  and  cook  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream,  taking  care  it 
!  does  not  burn.  When  cold  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 
Slice  10  or  12  medium  sized  cold  t>oiled  potatoes,  turn  the  dressing 
over  them  just  before  serving.  This  is  sufficient  for  a  family  of  8  people. 
Liettuce  Salad. — Rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil  (or  butter),  then  add 
one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  one- 
half  a  teacupful  of  powdered  sagar.     Pour  it  over  the  lettuce  and  serve, 

Lieiuon  Lettuce  Salad. — ^A  refreshing  way  to  serve  lettuce  is  to 
make  a  dressing  flavored  with  lemon.  First  cut  the  lettuce  small, 
then  squeeze  a  small  lemon  or  half  a  large  one  into  a  tumbler,  add  a 
little  sugar,  a  little  water  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  and  pour  the  mix- 
ture all  over  the  lettuce. 

Lettuce  and  Egg  Salad. — A  nice  salad  is  made  with  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  lettuce  or  water-cress  alternating  in  a  dish,  and  covering 
with  French  dressing,  or  any  preferred  dressing. 

Lettuce  in  Southern  Style. — Have  the  lettuce  very  cold  and 
crisp  and  arrange  in  layers  in  a  salad  bowl,  sprinkling  each  layer  with 
the  best  vinegar  and  adding  a  slight  powdering  of  fine  white  sugar. 

Tomato  Salad,  Cooked  Dressing. — Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes 
and  set  on  ice.  Make  the  following  dressing  :  Yolks  of  2  eggs,  or 
1  whole  egg,  lightly  beaten,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted-butter  or  salad  oil,  1  teaspoonful  made  mustard,  or  half 
as  rhuch  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  half  teaspoonful  pepper,'! 
cupful  vinegar.  Heat  slowly,  stirriong  constantly  until  thick.  Pour 
the  dressing  over  the  tomatoes  when  it  is  cold.  Garnish  with  lettuce 
,  or  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs. 

('  Tomato  Salad,  Cold  Dressing. — Peel  and  slice  tomatoes,  set  on  ice. 
Prepare  the  following  dressing :  1  egg,  beaten  light,  2  teaspoonfuls 
sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  1  onion,  minced,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,' 2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  or  melted  butter. 
Mix  thoroughly,  adding  oil  last.  Arrange  tomatoes  nicely  in  a  salad 
bowl,  in  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves  if  possible,  and  pour  this  dressing  over. 


SALADS.  287 

Mayonnaise  Tomato  Salad. — Pare  medium,  round,  ripe  tomatoes 
one  for  each  person  ;  put  on  ice.  Do  not  scald  them.-  Cut  out  the 
stem  end,  and  scoop  out  a  very  little  of  the  inside.  Make  little  nests 
of  tender,  green  lettuce  leaves  arranged-  on  a  large,  flat  dish,  and 
place  a  tomato  in  each  nest.  Put  in  the  hollow  (where  the  stem  was 
removed)  of  each  tomato  a  large  teaspoonful  of  thick  mayonnaise 
sauce  and  serve  immediately.  Another  way  is  to  slice  the  tomatoes 
after  they  are  pared,  arrange  them  on  a  dish,  with  or  without  lettuce 
leaves,  pour  over  them  mayonnaise,  chop  the  whites  of  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  scatter  over  the  tomatoes.  Garnish  with  parsley. 
When  tomatoes  first  come  and  are  expensive  the  most  beautiful  salad 
course  for  eight  people  can  be  made  from  four  small  tomatoes  and  a 
head  of  lettuce.  Freshen  the  lettuce  in  cold  water,  have  the  pared 
tomatoes  on  ice.  Arrange  little  cups  of  two  or  three  leaves  of  the 
lettuce,  and  lay  in  each  a  half  tomato.  Dot  with  a  spoonful  of  may- 
onnaise, and  serve  at  once. 

Canned  Tomato  Salad. — Canned  tomatoes  drained,  mixed  with  a 
little  chopped  or  sliced  onion  and  celery  seed,  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Deviled  Tomato  Salad,  Hot. — ^Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  raw  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar,  1 
level  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper  to  every  3  tomatoes  are  needed.  Select 
tomatoes  that  are  large,  ripe  and  firm,  pour  over  them  enough  boiling 
wat^r  to  loosen  the  skins,  peel,  and  cut  in  thick  slices.  The  sauce 
may  be  served  hot  or  cold.  In  combining  it,  cream  the  butter,  add 
*to  it  the  powdered  sugar  and  the  mustard,  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  into  the  mixture  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled 
egg.  For  this  it  is  better  to  use  a  little  sieve.  Heat  the  vinegar, 
then  add  that,  and  finally  a  beaten  raw  egg.  Set  over  hot  water  and 
cook  until  the  consistency  of  a  thick  cream.  When  ready  to  use, 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a. stew-pan,  add  the  slices  of  tomato, 
and  when  hot  serve  on  a  garnished  dish,  and  turn  the  sauce  over 
them. 

Tomato  and  Celery  Salad. — Very  delicate.  Aft^r  a  heavy  din- 
ner a  meat  salad  is  best  replaced  by  one  of  tomatoes  and  celery  that 
is  neither^  difficult  nor  expensive.  One  can  of  tomatoes  should  be 
stewed  with  a  pinch  of  salt  for  a  few  moments,  then  rubbed  through 


288  SALADS. 

a  sieve  and  the  red  juice  thickened  with  a  little  gelatine ;  a  table- 
spoonful  is  sufficient.  The  tomatoes  can  be  put  in  mould  to  form,  or 
merely  left  to  cool  and  solidify  in  a  salad  bowl.  If  a  mould  is  Used, 
turn  the  tomato  jelly,  when  cold,  into  a  salad  bowl,  heap  round  it 
shredded  celery,  and  pour  over  jelly  and  celery  a  liberal  supply  of 
either  rich  mayonnaise,  or  cream  salad  dressing,  and  serve  with  small 
salted  crackers. 

Vegetable  Salad. — Of  vegetable  salads  the  name  is  legion. 
Almost  any  cold  cooked  vegetable  can  be  used.  The  chi^f  thing  to 
remember  is  to  obtain  a  contrast  of  color  to  please  the  eye,  and,  if 
possible,  have  the  vegetable  of  delicate  flavor  for  the  main  part  of  the 
salad.  Asparagus,  cauliflower,  beans,  peas  and  carrots  combine 
well.  Potatoes,  cauliflower,  beets  and  carrots  go  well  together.  One 
or  two  vegetables  can  be  used  alone.  Use  any  kind  of  dressing,  and 
garnish  with  uncooked  cucumber,  tomato,  lettuce  and  any  handsome 
fresh  greens.  Use  any  remnants  of  vegetables  from  yesterday's 
dinner — green  peas  or  beans,  boiled  potatoes,  slices  of  beets,  green 
onions  or  celery ;  cut  small  and  heap  together  on  leaves  of  fresh  let- 
tuce.    Mayonnaise  dressing,  cream  salad  dressing,  etc.,  are  all  good. 

Beet  Salad. — Take  young  beets,  boil  until  tender,  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  set  on  ice ;  add  one  finely-minced  onion.  Make  a  dress- 
ing of  1  pint  of  vinegar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  salt  and  pepper. 
Have  chopped  fine  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  lay  over  the  beets,  garnish 
-with  water-cresses,  pour  over  the  dressing  and  serve.  Or,  line  a 
bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  or  water-cress,  lay  in  the  beets,  and  turn 
over  them  a  teacupful  of  plain  salad  dressing.  Set  on  ice  till  chilled. 
If  liked,  slice  onions  and  alternate  with  the  beets.  Beets  may  be 
sliced  and  have  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice  over  them  instead  of  the 
vinegar. 

Hot  Beet  Salad. — Boil  5  large  or  8  small  beets  until  soft;  peel 
and  slice.  Put  in  saucepan  1  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  water,  one-fourth 
cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  a  little  celery  salt  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper.     When  boiling  put  in  beets. 

Water-Cress  Salad. — To  make  a  delicious  water-cress  salad,  let 
some  water-cress  stand  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour  until  it  becomes 
very  crisp.  Dry  thoroughly  without  bruising  it.  Mix  with  a  French 
dressing  and  add  a  few  thin  slices  of  sour  apples.  Water-cress  is 
very  nice  served  simply  as  a  relish  to  be  eaten  with  salt. 


SALADS.  289 

Mushroom  Salad. — Mince  the  mushrooms  into  dice  and  put  them 
m  a  pan  with  a  little  oil  or  butter  and  a  few  slices  of  peeled  lemon  f 
let  them  simmer  in  this  till  done,  then  set  them  aside  till  quite  cold. 
Now  lay  them  in  a  salad  dish  with  chopped  parsley  and  chives,  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  either  a  French  oil  and  vinegar  dressing  or  a  good 
mayonnaise. 

Carrot  Salad.— Put  6  carrots  to  boil  in  plenty  of  water ;  when 
half  done  remove  and  throw  out  water  and  put  on  to  finish  in  fresh 
water ;  when  done  take  out,  cool  and  cut  into  one-half  inch  dice. 
Make  a  dressing  of  1  small  teacupful  of  vinegar,  4  tablespoorifuls  of 
melted  butter,  the  yolk  of  one  hard-boiled  egg,  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.  Line  a  dish  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves ;  add  two-thirds  of  the 
dressing,  then  the  carrot  dice,  then  the  remainder  of  the  dvessing. 
A  novel  and  ornamental  dish. 

Cauliflower  Salad. — Boil  a  cauliflower  until  it  breaks  easily ;  let 
it  drain  until  perfectly  cold.  Shred  the  heart  of  a  white  cabbage' 
lettuce  and  mince  together  a  small  onion,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  apd 
grate  finely  a  tablespoonful  of  horseradish.  Place  the  lettuce  first  in 
the  bowl,  next  the  sprigs  of  cauliflower,  and  sprinkle  the  other  in- 
gredients over  all.  Mix  a  dressing  as  follows,  and  pour  that  over 
all :  A  spoonful  of  made  mustard,  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  2  spoon- 
fuls of  oil  or  melted  butter,  1  of  vinegar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Spanish  Salad. — (Rich).  One  cupful  of  Spanish  olives  chopped, 
1  cupful  of  stalfe  bread  cut  in  dice,  one-half  cupful  gherkins  chopped, 
1  cupful  of  mayonnaise  dressing  garnished  with  red  peppers  chopped 
fine. 

Bean  Salad. — Young  beans  make  an  excellent  salad.  String 
them  and  cut  in  inch  lengths  and  boil  in  salt  and  water  until  tender, 
drain  well,  and  to  a  quart  of  beans  add  a  chopped  onion ;  take  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  2  of  salad  oil  or  melted  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  vinegar  and  butter  together,  add  the  sea- 
soning and  pour  over  the  beans  and  onions  ;  mix  well  and  set  away 
for  an  hour  or  two  before  using. 

Baked  Bean  Salad. — If  a  jar  of  beans  is  baked  once  a  week  it 
will  be  found  a  good  thing  to  have  on  hand.  Warming  over  only 
improves  them,  and  if  one  wishes  a  salad,  chop  some  of  the  beans 
with  a  raw  onion  or  two,  dress  with  vinegar,  melted  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  if  found  necessary  or  desirable.    Slices  of  pork  which  were 

COOK— 19 


290  SALADS. 

baked  with  the  beans  may  be  served  with  the  salad.  Lima  beans, 
potatoes  and  boiled  beats,  all  thoroughly  chilled,  can  be  served 
together  in  a  salad.  Slice  potatoes  and  beets.  Use  a  French  dress- 
ing or  any  salad  dressing. 

Dandelion.  Sala/d. — Dandelion  appears  with  the  first  days  of  the 
spring.  It  must  be  small  and  white  to  be  tender  and  sweet.  If  it  is 
old,  large  and  green,  it  is  tough  and  has  become  too  bitter  to  be 
used  for  salad.  Cut  the  root  off  and  wash  the  leaves  with  care,  as, 
like  field  salad,  it  contains  a  great  deal  of  sand.  Drain,  dress  with 
salt,  pepper  and  vinegar,  or  with  a  regular  French  dressing.  A  slice 
or  two  of  finely-tninced  onion  may  be  mixed  with  the  dandelions. 

Cucumber  Salad. — Cucumbers  should  never  be  placed  on  the 
table  until  they  have  been  pared  and  sliced  and  laid  for  an  hour  or 
two  in  ice-water.  To  prepare  for  the  table,  take  the  salad  bowl  and 
and  put  in  it  a  French  dressing  made  with  equal  amounts  of  vinegar 
and  oil,  say  3  tablespoonfuls  of  each,'  1  tablespoonful  of  the  vinegar 
being  tarragon  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspponful  pepper. 
Stand  on  ice  a  few  minutes,  then  stir  in  the  sliced  cucumber,,  a  very 
little  finely  minced  onion  can  be  added,  if  wished,  or  the  bowl  can  be 
rubbed  with  a  crushed  clove  of  garlic,  as  also  the  salad  spoon  and 
fork.  Do  not  mix  with  the  dressing  until  just  before  you  serve.  To 
serve  cucumbers  plain,  simply  slice,  with  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar ;  to 
most  tastes  they  are  improved  by  the "  addition  of  sliced'  onions. 
Cucumber  salad  is  delicious  to  serve  with  boiled  or  baked  bass. 

Onion  Salad. — Cut  up  3  dozen  young  spring  onions"  and  cover 
with  a  French  dressing.     Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Savory  Fruit  Salads. 

Epicures  have  recently  decided  that  fruits  as  well  as  vegetables 
can  be  served  with  salad  dressings  and  make  their  appearance  at  the 
dinner  table,  masked  in  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  To  prepare 
oranges  for  a  salad,  slice  them  very  thin ;  serve  in  flat  plates,  and  let 
each  guest  prepare  her  own  dressing  of  vinegar,  oil,  pepper  and  salt. 
Mayonnaise  is  a  trifle  too  heavy- for  the  fibres  of  oranges,  but  it 
serves  excellently  on  shaddocks  (or  grape  fruits),  that  do  not  possess  , 
so  delicate  a  flavoring  as  their  smaller  relatives.  When  preparing  the 
latter  it  is  wiser  to  cut  the  slices  into  quarters,  innocent  of  rind,  for 
otherwise  they  are  unwieldy.    The  small  toothsome  alligator  pear  is 


SALADS.  291 

palatable  with  either  dressing,  but  those  whose  palates  are  ha,rd  to 
tickle  lean  toward  the  pleasant  tang  of  vinegar  and  oil,  unmixed  with 
egg.  A  few  housewives  have  introduced  these  fruits  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves ;  the  blending  of  green  with  yellow  lends  a  pleasant  artistic  touch 
and  the  result  of  it  being  eaten  together  is — "  not  half  bad." 

Apple  Salad. — One  bunch  of  celeiy  cut  fine,  3  large  apples,  cut 
in  small  pieces  with  celery.  Dressing,  2  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  1 
teaspoonful  mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  butter  and 
pepper,  1  cup  of  vinegar;  boil  a  f«:w  minutes  and  pour  over  hot. 
Tart  apples  may  also  be  cut  up  with  young  onions,  with  oil,  vinegar 
and  cayenne. 

Orange  Salad. — ^Use  tart  oranges.  Slice  them  very  thin,  cutting 
down  the  sides  instead  of  across,  arrange  them  in  a  dish  with  pecan 
or  walnut  meats,  and  pour  over  them  a  dressing  made  of  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  to  3  of  oil,  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to 
taste  ;  or  spririlile  a  little  sugar  over  the  oranges,  with  some  sherry 
and  half  as  much  maraschino  as  sherry.  Both  salads  should  be  very 
cold.  The  first  one  is  particularly  good  with  game,  and  ths  latter  is 
often  served  in  place  of  a  sherbet  before  the  game. 

Salad  Dressings. 

Mayonnaise  dressing  is  ordinarily  given  for  all  meat  salads,  and  it 
and  French  dressing  are  the  only  two  in  general  use.  One  made 
with  cooked  eggs  is,  however,  much  richer  and  can  be  trusted  to  give 
far  greater  satisfaction  for  chicken,  lobster  and  oysters.  The  mayon- 
naise being  more  delicate  and  including  no  mustard,  i^  better  for 
eggs  and  for  simple  greens.  The  French  recipe,  as  every  one  knows, 
includes  no  eggs,  and  is  delicious  upon  crisp  lettuce,  dandelion 
greens,  cold  vegetables  and  the  like,  besides  which,  it  can  be  quickly 
made  and  is  at  i^s  best  when  prepared  at  the  table,  just  at  the  iHo- 
ment  of  serving.  Mayonnaise  is  the  basis  for  a  number  of  sauces. 
The  juice  of  boiled  parsley  colors  it  green  and  pounded  lobster  shell 
renders  it  coral.  Tartare  sauce  is  mayonnaise  made  with  tarragon 
vinegar,  and  with  the  addition  of  capers,  a  little  chopped  pickle  and  a 
slight  flavor  of  chives.  Another  excellent  sauce  is  mayonnaise  mixed 
with  chopped  cucumber,  or  grated  horseradish.  When  cold  fowl  oi 
meat  is  used  in  a  salad,  it  should  always  be  dressed  with  oil  and  via-' 
egar  before  the  mayonqaise  is  added. 


292  SALADS. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce.— Put  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  in  a  very  cold  soup 
plate  and  beat  until  light,  add  half  a  teaspoohful  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a  shaker  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  sugar  and  beat  again.  Now  stir  in,  a  drop  at  a  time,  half 
a  pint  of  olive  oil,  stirring  constantly  one  way  all  the  time.  When 
the  mixture  gets  too  stiff  to  stir  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or 
I  vinegar,  then  the  oil  again,  drop  by  drop,  until  you  have  used  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  all  the  oil.'  If  too  thick 
when  ready  to  use,  a  few- drops  of  vinegar  may  be  used  to  thin  it. 
Never  put  mayonnaise  on  a  sal^d  until  the  very  last  moment  before 
serving,  or  it  will  liquefy.  If  there  is  a  tenden^ 
to  curdle  put  back  on  ice  a  few  minutes  and  stir 
hard.  Some  cooks,  to  prevent  this  curdling,  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  the  white  of  an  egg  before 
stirring  in  the  oil.  If  it  does  not  thicken  properly, 
add  more  oil.  If  it  is  not  put  on  the  salad  before 
serving,  pass  it^  af  ound  in  a  glass  or  silver  pitcher. 
Vinegar  can  be  used  instead  of  lemon  juice,  or  they 
can  be  used  half  and  half.  This  will  keep  some  time  and  may  be  made 
when  yolks  are  left  over  from  baking  cake.  Bottle,  using  a  glass 
stopper,  or  put  in  a  glass  can,  screwing  on  the  cover.     Keep  on  ice. 

Do  not  break  the  yolk  until  the  oil  is  dropped  and  the  two  can  be 
stirred  together.  The  trouble  of  which  so  many  beginners  complain 
— 'the  curdling  of  the  oil — comes  {torn  breaking  and  stirring  the  egg. 
The  simple  precaution  mentioned  will  effectually  prevent  all  difficulty 
of  the  sort,  and  if  care  be  taken  will  ensure  a  smooth  dressing.  Stir 
the  oil  in  very  slowly  at  first,  when  well  started  a  little  more  briskly, 
but  never  pour  it  in  with  anything  like  haste.  The  dressing,  when 
finished,  should  be  about  the  color  of  boiled  custard,  and  much  thicker. 
By  using  the  whites  of  eggs  a  white  mayonnaise  sauce  may  be  obtained. 
Even  the  bowl  in  which  a  mayonnaise  is  made  should  be  kept  on  ice 
to  chill  it,  as  well  as  the  oil,  eggs  and  vinegar  used  in  making  it. 

French  Dressing.^-This  is  simply  two-thirds  oil  and,  one-third 
vinegar,  1  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  saltspbonful  of  pepper. 
Place  the  greens  for  salad  in  the  bowl.  Dissolve  the  salt  and  pepper 
in  one  tablespoonful  of  oil  and  pour  over  the  surface,  then  the  re- 
mainder of  the  oil  and  toss  thoroughly.  Pour  over  all  the  vinegar, 
toss  again  and  serve.    It  is  very  nice  to  prepare  this  at  table,  measur- 


SALADS.  293 

ing  the  ingredients  in  the  wooden  saladspoon.  Part,  or  entirely 
lerpon  juice  can  be  used  instead  of  vinegar.  Some  tastes  prefer  a 
very  little  made  mustard  added  to  this  dressing.  If  the  taste  of  the 
oil  is  preferred,  use  the  oil  first  in  the  dressing,  if  not  use  the  vinegar 
first,  for  where  one  holds  vantage  ground  first,  the  other  cannot  remain. 

Salad  Dressingr  without  Oil. — For  the  benefit  of  those  persons 
by  whom  oil  is  not  relished,  a  good  dressing  may  be  made  in  this 
manner :  Rub  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  till  quite  smooth, 
adding  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  one-fourth  the  volume  of 
white  pepper,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Mijc  these  thoroughly  and  add  cream 
and  vinegar  in  equal  proportions  to  make  the  mixture  of  the  desired 
consistency. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing  (Cheap  and  Good). — One  heaping  tea- 
spoonful of  mustard;  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  1  tahlespoonful  of 
melted  butter  or  salad  oil ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  buttermilk, 
sweet  milk  or  sour ;  6  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  1  egg.  Mix  the 
mustard  smoothly  in  part  of  the  vinegar,  add  the  remainder  of  the 
vinegar  and  sugar.  Beat  the  egg  and  butter  or  oil  together,  stir  in 
the  cream  or  milk  and  pour  into  the  vinegar  and  mustard,  mixing 
well.  Let  it  boil  a  few  moments,  stirring  briskly.  Cool  before  using. 
It  will  keep  several  days,  is  good  and  cheap,  and  can  be  used  with 
lettuce  or  cold  meat ;  fowl,  potatoes,  or  any  cold  pieces  are  made 
palatable  by  using  this  dressing. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing. — Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  till  light  and 
thick ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  also  1  of  salt,  speck  of  cayenne 
pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  same  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of 
cream  or  milk,  and  half  a  cup  of  vinegar ;  then  add  the  whites  of  the 
3  eggs,  beaten  stifiF.  Put  all  together  in  a  double  boiler ;  boil  until 
thick,  stirring  well  while  cooking.  Bottle  tightly.  Kept  in  a  cool 
place  will  keep  for  two  or  three  weeks. 

Cream  Dressing. — The  fortunate  country  housewives  who  have 
thick  cream  can  make  a  delicious  dressing  by  diluting  it  with  one- 
fourth  vinegar,  seasoning  it  with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  adding  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


Baking. — Flour  should  always  be 
kept  dry,  as  the  least  dampness  will  af- 
fect it.  Bread  made  with  milk  will  be  whiter 
and  better  than  where  water  is  used.  The 
^'  ■  milk  should  be  boiled,  not  simply  heated  and  not  allowed 
^  -  to  be  below  a  lukewarm  temperature  when  mixed  with  flour. 
Many  housekeepers,  however,  do  not  boil  the  milk,  but  only  warm  it 
Milk-bread  needs  little  or  no  shortening,  and  less  flour  is  required 
than  is  the  case  where  water  is  used.  It  also  requires  less  knead- 
ing. _  An  earthen  vessel  should  be  used  in  preference  to  wood  or 
tin,  as  it  can  be  kept  cleaner  than  the  former  and  will  protect  the 
temperature  of  "the  sponge"  better  than  the  latter. 

One  cup  of  yeast  means  wet  yeast.  If  dry  is  used,  the  cup  must 
be  filled  with  warm  water.  Bread  and  biscuit  should  rise  in  a  mod- 
erately-warm place.  If  too  cold  it  will  be  heavy ;  if  too  hot  it  will  be 
sour.  Should  a  batch  of  dough  become  sour,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
will  help  it,  but  this  should  be  used  only  in  an  emergency.  To  have 
your  bread  rise  very  quickly,  double  the  quantity  of  yeast,  but  watch 
it ;  do  not  let  it  sour.  Bread  should  rise  to  twice  its  original  size 
before  it  is  ready  to  bake.  Bake  small  loaves  rather  than  large  ones. 
Do  not  have  the  loaf  too  large  for  the  pan ;  it  will-be  a  bad  shape. 

Biscuit  and  rolls  require  a  hotter  oven  than  bread  and  a  longer 
time  to  rise.  A  little  sugar  or  a  little  butter  mixed  with  the  rising 
will  keep  bread  moist.  Do  not  put  a  cloth  around  bread  or  biscuit 
if  put  in  a  tin  box.  In  using  baking-powder  or  other  chemicals  with 
salt,  mix  them  thoroughly  with  the  flour  by  twice  putting  all  through 
the  sieve  together.  An  even  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  to  a  cup- 
ful of  flour  is  a  good  proportion.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar  and"  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  are  equal  to  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder.    Always  sift  your  flour. 

Brush  the  tops  of  the  loaves  with  butter  before  putting  in  the 
oven.  This  keeps  the  crust  moist.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  or  sweet 
294 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.     295 

milk  to  give  a  glazed  appearance.  Raised  biscuit  rubbed  over  with 
butter  before  putting  it  in  the  tin  will  separate  smoothly  when  baked. 
Test  the  oven  by  putting  in  a  little  flour  on  an  old  tin.  If  it  browns 
in  one  minute  the  oven  is  at  right  heat.  Keep  the  heat  steady,  and, 
as  it  lessens  toward  the  end  of  the  baking,  put.  in  the  rolls  and  biscuit; 
after  they  have  risen  put  on  more  heat  and  bake  quickly. 

Flour  can  be  sifted  by  the  quantity.  Baking-powder,  in  the  pro< 
portion  of  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  to  a  quart,  can  be  sifted  witlfTti 
providing  it  can  be  set  away  in  a  tightly^covered  pail.  This  is  a  great 
saving  of  time.  Sift  together  two  or  three  times.  •  Self-raising  floul 
and  creamery-buttered  flour  can  be  bought  anjnvhere. 

Graham  flour  and  corn-meal  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities, 
as  they  spoil  easily.  One  cup  of  flour  means  a  full  cup  before  sift- 
ing. Heat  the  bread-knife  before  slicing  a  warm  loaf  of  bread  or 
cake,  and  the  slice  will  be  smooth  and  even.  , 

Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  top  of  the  bread-dough  after  it  is  mixed 
at  night  and  you  will  have  no  crust  on  it  in  the  morning,  after  it  has 
risen.  When  bread  is  baked  remove  immediately  from  the  pans, 
stand  on  end,  that  the  air  may  circulate  freely  around  it.  Do  not 
open  the  oven-door  after  the  bread  is  put  in  until  it  has  had  time  to 
become  somewhat  firm.  The  cold  air  will  have  a  tendency  tp  make 
it  heavy.  Never  leave  the  bread  on  a  pine  table  to  absorb  the  odor 
of  the  wood.  If  the  crusts  are  liked  crisp  do  not  cover  the  loaves 
while  cooling.  To  give  a  wafer-like  softness,  cover,  while  still  hot, 
with  several  thicknesses  of  bread-cloth.  One  cup  of  yeast  is  equal  to 
1  cake  of  compressed  yeast-cake. . 

A  stone  jar  is  better  than  a  tin  box  to  keep  bread  moist.  When 
the  loaves  are  perfectly  cold,  unwrap  and  put  in  the  jar ;  cover  this 
closely.  Cleanse  flie  jar  from  bread-crumbs  and  scald  every  two  or 
three  days,  A  yard  and  a  half  of  cheap  table  linen  makes  the  best 
bread-cloth ;  old  table-cloths  are  good  for  this  purpose.  Keep  several 
so  that  they  can  be  kept  sweet  and  clean.  Flour,  age  and  quality,  makes 
a  great  difference  in  the  bread.  It  should  be  smooth  to  the  touch, 
keep  its  shape  if  pressed  in  the  hand,  and  will  not  absorb  as  much 
moisture  as  the  more  granular  lind.  It  can  be  used  equally  well  for 
bread,  cake  and  pastry. 

A  barrel  of  flour  that  will  not  make  good  bread  to-day,  simply 
because  the  wheat  was  too  new  when  ground,  will,  if  kept  fpr  two 


J96     BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

months,  make  perfect  bread,  if  the  yeast  be  good ;  for,  after  all,  the 
yeast  is  more  frequently  than  the  flour  the  cause  of  failure  to  make 
satisfactory  bread.  When  it  is  purchased  in  small  quantities  there 
will  always  be  an  uncertainty  as  to  how  it  will  work  until  after  the 
first  time  it  is  used.  Even  in  small  families  it  is  better  to  get  flour 
by  the  barrel,  as  it  improves  with  age.  Another  thing  for  the  house- 
keeper to  remember  is  that  the  whitest  flour  is  not  the  most  nutri- 
tious. What  is  called  first-quality  flour  does  not  contain  nearly  so 
large  a  quantity  of  the  best  elements  of  the  wheat  as  the  second 
quality,  which  is  much  darker,  but  gives  a  sweeter  and  more  nufri- 
tious  loaf. 

Servingr  Butter. — Butter  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  foods,  and 
unless  carefully  preserved,  the  harbor  of  disease,  not  only  holding, 
but  attracting  and  developing  foreign  organic  matter.  At  no  time 
before  serving  should  butter  be  exposed  to  the  air.  In  well-kept 
boarding-houses  and  hotels,  a  cube  of  hard  butter  is.put  on  a  saucer 
and  buried  in  shaved  ice.  With  good  bread  and  good  coifee,  a 
square  inch  of  choice  butter  makes  a  breakfast.  The  common  but- 
ter-patty is  liseless  for  this  kind  of  service.  Another  method,  suit- 
able for  a  private  family,  is  the  cracker  jar,  because  it  has  a  cover 
that  fits.  Cut  the  butter  in  inch  squares,  line  the  jar  with  crushed 
ice,  and  fiU  with  butter  and  ice  cubes ;  serve  both.  There  are  prints 
on  sale  that  cut  cubes  the  size  of  loaf  sugar ;  they  have  economy 
and  daintiness  to  commend  their  use.  Send  a  pickle  fork  around 
with  cracker  jar  to  help  the  butter.  When  cut,  the  pieces  should  be 
thrown  into  cold  water,  so  as  to  prevent  their  sticking  together  and 
losing  shape. 

Left-over  Bread.-r Every  housewife  should  look  in  the  bread-jar 
every  morning.  The  whole  and  half  slices  of  stale  bread  may  be 
used  for  toast,  the  smaller  pieces  to  be  toasted  with  care  on  a  pan- 
cake griddle  ;  then  put  them  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  3  or  4  spoonfuls  of  butter.  When  ready  to  use,  pour  this 
over  the  toasted  bread.  Small  pieces  and  crumbs  can  be  used  for 
dressing  to  stuff"  fowls  with,  or  they  may  be  placed  on  a  tin  in  a  warm 
oven  and  dried  until  a  beautiful  brown,  rolled  on  a  board  until  fine, 
and  then  kept  in  a  box  or  glass  jar  to  use  in  place  of  cracker  crumbs 
for  frying  oysters  and  making  croquettes.  Be  sure  to  roll  them  until' 
fine,  and  do  not  use  the  pastry-board  for  this  purpose,  as  the  crumbs 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.     297 

will  make  it  rough.  Soft  bread  crumbs  are  good  soaked  in  milk  for 
griddle  cakes;  stale  bread  can  be  utilized  foi^  a  pudding.  Care 
should  be  taken  not  to  use  a  particle  of  bread  which  is  mouldy  or 
from  a  loaf  which  has  moulded. 

Brown  bread  that  has  grown  stale  makes  delicious  milk  toast. 
Brown  biscuit  can  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Stale  biscuits  can  be 
cut  in  three  slices  each,  and  browned  in  the  oven  for  crisps,  which  are 
relished  for  breakfast.  To  utilize  cold  Johnny  cake,  cut  the  squares 
in  two  as  you  would  a  cold  biscuit,  and  toast  on  a  griddle.  A  loaf  of 
stale  bread  can  be  made  quite  fresh  by  being  dipped  quickly  into  hot 
milk,  and  then  baked  until  dry  in  a  quick  oven. 

Biscuits  can  be  warmed  to  be  as  good  as  when  just  baked  by 
placing  them  in  the  oven  dry,  covered  closely  with  a  tin.  Or  dip 
instantly  in  cold  water,  put  in  the  oven  and  heat  until  soft,  warm  and 
light.  Do  not  burn.  If  mush  is  rolled  in  flour  before  being  fried,  it 
will  not  absorb  so  much  grease  and,  it  will  have  a  delicious  brown 
crust  that  cannot  be  obtained  in  any  other  way. 

To  use  very  dry  bread  for  any  purpose,  soak  it  in  cold  milk  or 
water  instead  of  hot.  The  hot  fluids  seem  to  take  the  life  out  of  dry 
bread  and  render  it  soggy.  The  cold  soaking  leaves  it  flaky.  Stale 
crackers  which  taste  old  can  be  made  fresh  by  putting  them  on  a  tin 
in  the  oven  and  shaking  them  often  until  they  heat  through. 

Time  for  Baking. — In  baking  bread,  pies,  cakes,  etc.,  much  de- 
pends on  the  heat  of  the  oven.  Biscuit  and  gingerbread  need  a  quick 
oven;  bread,  a  steady  heat,  not  too  hot.  Fruit  cake  should  be  baked 
rather  slowly  and  requires  more  cooking  than  a  plain  cake.  Cookies 
want  a  quick  oven  and  close  attention  or  they  will  burn.  Fruit  pies, 
especially  apple,  should  be  baked  rather  slowly,  so  the  fruit  may  be 
thoroughly  cooked.     Cake  should  not  be  disturbed  while  baking. 

Table  of  Proportions. 

Use  1  teaspoonful  soda  to  1  cupful  molasses ;  1  teaspoonful  soda 
to  1  pint  sour  milk ;  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powddr  to  1  quart  flour ; 
one-half  cupful  of  yeast  or  one-quarter  cake  compressed  yeast  to  1  , 
pint  liquid ;  1  teaspoonful  extract  to  1  loaf  plain  cake ;  1  teaspoonful 
salt  to  2  quarts  flour;  1  teaspoonful  salt  to  1  quart  soup;  1  scant 
cupful  of  liquid  to  2  full  cupfuls  of  flour  for  bread;  1  scant  cupful  (/ 


298      BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

liquid  to  2  full  cupfuls  of  flour  for  muffins ;  1  scant  cupful  of  liquid 
to  1  full  cupful  of  flour  for  batters. 

Potato  Yeast. — Pare  and  grate  4  medium  potatoes,  pour  on  3 
pints  of  boiling  water,  add  1  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  salt,  one-quarter 
cake  compressed  yeast,  1  cake  of  dry  yeast,  or  1  cupful  of  soft  yeast, 
whichever  is  convenient.  Let  the  batter  cool  partly  befpi'e  adding 
the  yeast.  Stir  thoroughly.  It  will  be  light  as  a  foam  next  day. 
Renew  while  there  is  still  enough  of  the  old  yeast  to  start  the  new 
lot.  Clean  the  yeast  jug  thoroughly  before  starting  anew.  Qpe  tea- 
cupfii^l  of  this  yeast  will  make  4  or  5  loaves  of  bread. 

Btop  Yeast.-^One  pint  hot  mashed  potatoes ;  one-half  pint  salt ; 
one-half  pint  sugar ;  one-half  pint  flour ;  one-half  pint  hops  (meas- 
ured lightly);  4^  quarts  boiling  water;  one-half  pint  yeast,  or  1 
cake  compressed  yeast.  Put  the  hops  in  a..«tewpan  with  1  pint  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  for  20  minutes.  Mix  the  potatoes,  sugar, 
flour  and  Salt,  and  strain  the  hop  water  on  them.  Beat  this  mixture 
Well,  and  add  the  4  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Let  this  stand  until 
blo6d-warm>  then  add  the  yeast,  stirring  well.  Cover  the  bowl  and 
let  stand  24  hours.  Skim  and  stir  the  yeast  several  times.  Put  in 
jugs  and  cork  tightly.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  keep  two 
months.  In  making  bread  with  it  use  very  little  salt.  If  yeast  seems 
at  all  doubtful,  stir  in  a  little  saleratus  before  using  it.  If  it  does  not 
foam  well,  it  is  too  stale. 

Yeast  Cakes. — Boil  a  large  handful  of  hops  in  a  quart  of  water 
for  half  an  hour.  Stir  it  slowly  and  smoothly  into  one-half  cup  wheat 
flour.  When  lukewarm  add  3  cakes  of  yeast,  previously  soaked  in  a 
little  warm  water,  or  1  large  cupful  of  fresh  soft  yeast.  Set  in  a  warm 
place  until  very  light,  then  thicken  with  cornmeal  until  stiff  enough  to 
roll  out.  Cut  in  small  square  cakes.  Dry  in  the  shade  or  in  a  warm 
oven.  Turn  often  to  keep  from  souring.  When  dry,  tie  in  a  bag 
and  k§ep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Soak  a  cake  in  warm  water  when 
wanted  for  yeast.  This  ought  to  make  3  loaves  of  bread.  It  is  con- 
venient to  make  this  yeast  for  warm  weather.  It  will  keep  5  or  6  months. 

Baking'  Powder,  Home  Made. — Ten  ounces  of  cornstarch,  9 
ounces  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  18  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar.  Sift 
several  times.     Put  in  tight  jars  or  cans. 

Baking  Powder. — II.  One  ounce  super-carbonate  soda,  7  drachms 
^artaric  acid  (powdered).    Roll  smoothly  on  a  baking  board  and  stand 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.     299 

m  the  sun.  Sift  several  times.  When  thoroughly  dry  put  in  tight 
glass  jars  or  bottles.  Use  1  teaspoonful  of  this  powder  to  1  quart  of 
flour.    Tartaric  acid  is  used  as  being  purer  than  cream  of  tartar. 

Water  Bread.— Half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  1  cake  of  dry 
yeast,  or  1  cupful  of  soil  yeast.  If  either  compressed  or  dry  yeast  is 
used,  fill  up  the  cup  with  warm  water.  Dissolve  2  tablespoonfuls.  of 
lard  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar  in  1  quart  of  warm  water. 
Then  gradually  stir  in  a  pint  and  one-half  of  flour ;  add  a  cup  of 
yeast  mixture,  and  then  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  hard  and  set  to 
rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place  where  the  temperature  will  not  fall 
during  the  night. 

In  the  morning  sift  2  quarts  of  fresh  flour  into  a  deep  bread-tray, 
and  add  a  teaspoonful  fo  fine  salt.  Make-  a  hole  in  the  middle  of 
the  heap,  pour  in  the  risen 
sponge,  and  work  the  flour 
down  into  it  with  the  hands. 
If  too  soft,  add  more  flour. 
IS  stiff,  rinse  out  the  bowl  in 
which  the  sponge  was  set, 
with  a  little  lukewarm  water, 
and  work  this  in.  I'lour  the 
hands  and  knead  hard,  always 
toward  the  centre  of  the 
mass,  which  should  be  fre- 
quently turned  around. 

Knead  long  and  briskly.  From  20  minutes  to  half  an  hourls  the 
proper  length  of  time.  When  the  dough  is  of  the  right  texture, 
cover  with  a  cloth,  and  leave  it  4  or  5  hours  to  rise  in  a  warm  place, 
where  there  are  no  draughts.  Then  knead  again  for  10  minutes  or  so, 
divide  into  loaves,  place  in  well-greaSed  pans  and  set  the  pans  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  for  an  hour. 

In  winter  it  will  be  found  a  good  plan  to  heat  the  flour.  Set  a 
pan  of  sifted  flour  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  or,  better  still,  in  the 
heating  oven  of  a  range.  Lime  water  in  bread  has  been  found  to 
produce  the  lightness  and  softness  of  alum  without  its  injurious 
qualities ;  it  also  prevents  acidity.  Use  in  the  proportion  of  1  table- 
spoonful  of  the  saturated  solution  to  each  loaf  of  bread.  One  cup- 
ful of  air-slaked  lime  in  1  quart  of  water  will  make  the  solution. 


Flour  Sifter. 


300     BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

Potato  Sponge  Bread. — One  quart  boiling  water ;  4  large  pot» 
toes;  one-half  cup  yeast,  or  one-third  cake  compressed  yeast;  'J 
tablespoonful  salt;  about  3  quarts  and  1  pint  of  flour.  This  wiB 
make  4  large  or  6  medium-sized  loaves.  Cover  the  potatoes  with 
boiling  water.  Cook  them  for  half  an  hol^r;  then  drain  and  mash 
them.  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  them.  Let  this  stand  until  it  is 
blood-warm ;  then  add  the  yeast  and  3  quarts  of  flour,  beating  it  in 
with  a  spoon.  Cover  the  bowl  with  a  clbth,  and  then  with  a  board 
or  til;)  cover,  and  let  it  rise  over  night — 9  or  10  hours.  In  the. 
morning  beat  in  the  salt  and  half  of  the  remaining  flour.  Use  the 
remainder  of  the  flour  for  kneading  the  bread  on  the  board.  Knead 
for  20  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  Put  the  dough  back  into  the  bowl 
and  cover  it ;  let  it  rise  to  doubly  its  size ;  shape  into  loaves,  and  let 
them  rise  to  double  their  original  size.  Bake  for  1  hour  in  a  moderi 
ately  hot  oven.  The  addition  of  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  2  or  3 
of  butter,  improves  the  bread  for  some  tastes.  If  these  be  used,  add 
them  with  the  salt  when  the  bread  is  kneaded.  ScaWing  buttermilk  or 
whey  may  be  used  instead  of  boiling  water,  and  will  be  found  an 
improvement. 

Quick  Bread,  Wheat. — One  cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  half  cup 
cold  water ;  1  tablespoonful  sugar ;  half  teaspoonfnl  salt ;  half  pint 
cold  milk ;  half  pint  boiling  water.  Stir  in  the  dissolved  yeast.  Sift 
in  flour  until  stiff"  as  can  be  stirred.  Put  on  the  moulding-board  and 
knead  5  minutes.  Butter  a  jar  or  deep  pan  thoroughly,  and  put  the 
bread  in  it.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  3  hours.  Make  into 
loaves,  butter  and  prick  the  tops.  Set  to  rise  again  for  1  hour,  and 
then  bake  1  hour.  Wash  the  top  over  with  milk  and  set  on  end  to 
cool.  This  is  extra-nice  bread  and  can  be  made  between  breakfast 
and  dinner,  saving  the  trouble  of  setting  a  sponge  over  night.  Com- 
pressed yeast  is  best  to  use — ^half  a  cake. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread. — -Two  quarts  of  imsifted  flour;  lj4  pints 
warm  water ;  1  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar ; 
"half "tablespoonful  salt;  half  cake  compressed  yeast,  or  half  cup 
home-made  yeast.  After  sifting  the  flour  into  a  bread-bowl,  put  aside 
a  cupful  for  use  in  kneading  the  brtfad,  and  put  the  sugar  and  salt  ' 
with  the  remainder.  If  the  yeast  be  compressed,  dissolve  it  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water.  Pour  the  remaining,  water  and  the  yeast  into  the 
bowl,  and  finally  add  the  butter,  somewhat  softened  by  standing  in  a 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.     301 

ttrarm  place  for  a  while.  Beat  the  dough  vigorously  with  a  strong 
spoon,  and  when  it  gets  smooth  and  light  sprinkle  a  moulding-board 
with  a  part  of  the  flour  that  was  reserved,  and  turn  out  upon  the 
board.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic,  say  from  20  minutes  to  half 
an  hour;  then  return  to  the  bowl,  and  after  covering  first  with  a  clean 
towel,  and  then  with  a  tin  or  wooden  cover,  let  it  rise  over  night  in  a 
warm  place.  This  quantity  will  make  2  loaves  of  bread  and  1  pan 
of  roUs.  When  it  has  risen,  butter  lightly  2  bread-pans  and  1  roU- 
pan.  Make  enough  rolls  to  fill  the  pan,  shaping  them  with  the 
hands ;  then  put  the  remainder  of  the  dough  on  a  heard,  and  divide 
it  into  2  loaves.  Let  the  rolls  and  loaves  rise  tifl  they  are  double 
their  original  size ;  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven-r-the  rolls  for  half 
an  hour  and  the  bread  for  an  hour.  Entire  or  whole  wheat  flour  is 
the  whole  wheat,  husk  excepted,  ground  to  a  fine  flour.  Graham  is 
a  coarse-ground  wheat  meal.  The  rolls  and  bread  are  brown  and 
delicious.  Some  cooks  do  not  knead  it  at  all,  simply  stirring  and 
beating  the  dough  until  it  is  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Pour  this  in 
greased  pans  and  let  rise  over  night.  Fill  the  pans  one-third  full. 
Bake  after  breakfast.  Wholesome  and  delicious  for  every  one,  but 
invaluable  for  invalids,  since  all  rfhe  nutritious  portions,  which  are 
rejected  in  white  flour,  are  retained  in  entire  wheat  flour. 

Quick  Buttermilk  Bread. — One  pint  of  buttermilk,  1  ^  tea- 
spoons of  soda,  half  cupful  shortening,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  make 
a  medium  dough.     Bake  at  once. 

Baking  Powder  Bread. — One  quart  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
half  teaspoonful  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  half 
medium-sized  cold  boiled  potato,  and  water.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  - 
sugar  and  baking  powder ;  rub  in  the  potato ;  add  water  to  mix 
smoothly  and  rapidly  into  a  stiff  batter,  about  as  soft  as  for  pound- 
cake; about  a  pint  of  water  to  a  quart  of  flour  will  be  required-^ 
more  or  less,  according  to  the  brand  and  quantity  of  the  flour  used* 
Do  not  make  a  stiff  dough,  as  in  yeast  bread.  Pour  the  batter  into  a 
greased  pan,  4^  by8  inches  and  4  deep,  filling  about  half  full.  The 
loaf  will  rise  to  fill  the  pan  when  baked.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven 
45  minutes,  placing  paper  over  first  fifteen  minutes'  baking,  to  prevent 
crusting  too  soon  on  top.     Bake  immediately  after  mixing. 

Salt-Bisiugr  Bread. — Pour  upon  a  teacupful  of  milk  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  bring  it  to  blood  temperature ;  must  not  be  too  hot 


302      BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

or  you  will  fail ;  add  a  very  little  salt  and  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  t«i' 
spoonful  of  each ;  then  stir  in  1  large  teaspoonful  of  corn  meal  or 
Graham  flour  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour ;  mixall  up  to  the 
consistency  of  pancake  batter  and  Set  to  rise  by  placing  the  cup  or 
bowl  containing  it  in  warm  water;  should  water  gather  on  top  dust 
a  little  flour  and  stir.  If  set  in  the  early  morning  it  will  rise  at  noon. 
Sift  3  or  4  quarts  of  flour  and  spread  in  a  pan,  so  as  to  leave  a  large 
iioUow  in  the  centre,  and  put  in  Ttablespoonful  of  sweet  lard  or  butter. 
Pour  over  this  3  quarts  of  warm  water,  or  milk  and  water,  half  and 
half.  Add  the  rising.  Mix  and  work  into  loaves.  Rub  butter  over 
each.  Put  in  deep  tins,  and,  when  it  rises  to  the  top,  bake  about  40 
minutes  in  a  well-heated  oven.  Let  cool  uncovered,  and  put  away  in 
a  large  stone  jar.    This  is  good,  svireet,  digestible  bread. 

Wheat  and  Indian  Bread. — Sift  in  a  pan  4  quarts  of  Indian 
meal;  stir  in  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  very  stiff"  batter,  stiff 
enough  to  hold  a  spoon  upright.  Let  the  batter  cool  -until  it  is 
blood-warm,  then  stir  in  2  quarts  of  sifted  wheat  flour,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  2  spoonfuls  of  molasses.  Finally  add  a  small  teacup  of 
yeast.  Mix  the  bread  thoroughly,  put  in  a  pan,  grease  it  well  on  top 
and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  when  it  shows  signs  of 
cracking,  put  it  in  a  moderately  hot  stove-oven  and  cover  it  Jwell  with 
brown  paper  and  let  it  bake  for  two  or  three  hours,  or,  if  you  prefer, 
steam  it  for  five  hours  and  bake-it  one  hour  covered  in  a  slow  oven. 
This  is  good,  sweet,  nutritious  bread. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — 'One  coffee-cup  corn  meal,  1  coflfee-cup  ; 
rye  "flour,  1  coffee-cup  Graham  flour.  Sift  together  and  add  2  cups 
of  New  Orleans  molasses.  Mix  all  together  with  2  cups  of  sVeet 
milk,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Pour  the  mixture  in  a  tin  pail;  cover;  put  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water ;  set  over  the  fire  and  let  boil  4  hours.  Butter  the  pail 
thoroughly.  Cook  it  as  soon  as  mixed.  It  may  appear  to  be  too 
thin,  but  it  is -not,  as  this  recipe  has  never  been  known  to  fail.  Serve 
warm  with  baked  beans  or  turkey.  The  bread  should  not  quite  fill 
the  pail,  as  it  must  have  room  to  swell.  See  that  the  water  does  not 
boil  up  to  the  top  of  the  pail ;  also  take  care  that  it  does  not  stop 
boiling.  To-  serve  it  remove  the  lid  and  set  it  for  a  few  moments 
into  the  open  oven  to  dry  the  top,  and  it  will  then  turn  out  in  perfect 
shape.    This  bread  can  be  used  as  a  pudding,  served  with  a  sauce 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKfiS.     303 

made  of  thick,  sour  cream,  well  sweetened  and  seasoned  with  nut- 
meg ;  or  it  is  good  toasted  the  next  day.  It  can  be  put  in  a  buttered 
mould  and  steamed  4  hours  instead  of  boiled. 

Baked  Brown  Bread. — ^Two  cups  of  Indian  meal,  2  cups  ryq 
flour  or  Graham,  three-quarters  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  soda^ 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt;  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  about 
like  cake.  Have  moderate  oven ;  bake  slowly  4  or  5  hours.  Sweet 
milk  or  water  can  be  used  in  making  the  batter,  and  2  teaspoonfula 
of  baking-powder  sifted  with  the  ilour,  instead  of  the  soda. 

Graham  Bread. — Two  cups  of  wheat  flour,  4  cups  of  Graham 
flour,  2  cups  of  warm  milk,  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  half  cup  of 
molasses,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the 
water.  Make  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  Let  it  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  beat  it  a  little,  form  in  one  or  two  loaves,  put 
in  pans,  and  when  it  rises  again-,  bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Quick  Grakam  Bread. — One  pint  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
half  cup  molasses,  half  teaspoon  salt.  Stir  in  Graham  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  J),  little  shortening  makes  it 
more  tender. 

Indian  Bread. — Scald  1  pint  of  Indian  meal  with  1  quart  of  milk 
or  water ;  boiling  milk  and  water  can  be  used,  half  and  half  When 
cool  add :  1  pint  of  Graham  flour,  1  cup  of  wheat  flour,  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  (melted),  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  half  cupful  of  yeast.  If  yeast 
cakes  are  used,  1  will  answer.  Dissolve  it,  and  fill  the  cup  half  full  of 
warm  water.  Do  this  at  night.  In  the  morning  stir  down ;  put  in  a 
well-buttered  pan,  letting  it  rise  first  for  half  an  hour,  and  bake  slowly. 

Kew  Orleans  Corn  Bread. — One  and  oHte-half  pints  corn-meal, 
half  pint  flour,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoons- 
ful  baking  powder,  1%  pints  milk,  1  tablespoonful  lard,  2  eggs.  Sift 
together  corn-meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder ;  rub  in  lard,  cold ; 
add  eggs  (beaten),  and  the  milk ;  mix  into  a  moderately  stiff-  batter ; 
pour  from  bOwl  into  a  shallow  cake-pan.  Bake  in  rather  hot  oven 
30  minutes. 

Bye  Bread.— One  cup  yeast,  1  pint  of  warm  water  to  2  pints  of 
rye  flour,  and  1  pint  of  wheat  flour;  2  tablespoonfuls  lard  or  butter; 
2  tablespo6nfuls  brown  sugar.  Beat  together,  and  let  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  mix  with  this :  1  quart  of  warm  milk,  1  cup  of  Indian 
meal,  enough  rye  flour  to  make  into  dough.    Knead;  cover;  set  ia 


804,     BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

a  warm  place  to  rise  2  or  3  hours.  Knead  again,  and  make  into 
loaves.  If  there  is  the  least  tendency  to  sourness,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  warm  water.  It  is  best  to  always  add  this  in 
Warm  weather.  Rub  soda  smooth  with  a  knife  blade  before  measuring. 
Oat  Meal  Bread. — Half  pint  oat  meal,  2^  pirits  flour,  half 
teaspoonful  salt,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three-quarters  pint  of 
('milk,  1}4  pints  salted  water.  Boil  the  oat  meal  in  water  for  1  hour; 
add  milk;  set  aside  until  cold.  Then  place  in  bowl,  sift  together 
fiour,  salt,  and  powder,  and  add.  Mix  together  smoothly  and  deftly ; 
bake  in  greased  tin  45  minutes,  protected  with  paper  20  minutes. 

Biscuit. 

Suggestions. — It  is  a  mistake  to  make  a  large  tea  biscuit.  Prop- 
erly speaking,  a  tea  bisciiit  should  not  be  more  than  two  inches  in 
diameter  and  proportionately  thick  when  baked.  This  gives  a  deli- 
cate^ moist,  flaky  biscuit,  which  will  be  cooked  through  before  the  out- 
side crust  has  become  hard  or  overbrown.  Most  people  hurry  to  get 
biscuits  in  the  oven  after  they  are  mixed.  Those  made  with  sweet 
milk  and  baking  powder  are  much  nicer  if,  after  cutting  out  and  put- 
ting in  the  pans,  they  rise  for  a  while  before  baking.  If  mixed  in  the 
evening  they  may  even  wait  till  morning  to  bake,  and  are  more  like 
light  rolls.     If  not  quite  milk  enough  use  half  water. 

Substitution  of  Baking  Powder. — When  a  recipe  calls  for  bak- 
ing powder  and  it  is  not  at  hand,  use  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  in  the 
proportion  of  2  teaSpoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  to  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  called  for  in  a  recipe  may 
be  replaced  by  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful soda, — always  seeing  that  the  two  together  equal  two-thirds 
of  the  amount  of  baking  powder  called  for,  and  vice  versa.  Level 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar' and  soda  are  meant.  When  a  recipe 
calls  for  sweet  milk,  or  cream  and  it  is  not  at  hand,  use  sour  milk  or 
cream  and  use  with  it  baking  soda  in  the  proportion  of  1  level  spoon- 
ful to  a  pint  of  sour  milk.  If  soda  biscuits  are  yellow  it  is  owing  to 
too  much  soda.  Soda  must  be  varied  according  to  the  sourness  of 
4he  milk,  milk  that  has  just  turned  requiring  a  little  less  than  the 
amount  above  given,  and  milk  that  is  very  sour  requiring  a  little 
more.    This  nte  applies  to  any  case  where  sour  milk  is  used. 


BREAD,  biscuits;  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.      305 

Cream  of  Tartar  and  Soda  Biscuit,  Without  Milk. — One  quart 
of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  butter  chopped  in  the  flour,  2  cups 
cold  water,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  siited  with  the  flour,  1  teaspooii- 
ful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Stir  the  dis- 
solved soda  in  the  cold  water.  Mix  the  dough  very  quickly,  having 
it  just  stiff  enough  to  handle  and  roll.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Buttermilk  Biscuitl — For  four  persons  take  1  pint  moderately 
sour  buttermilk  and  stir  in  it  a  rounding  teaspopnful  of  baking  soda. 
Pour  into  the  flour  bowl  where  there  has  been  made  a  hole  in  the 
middle  of  the  flour.  Add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  cup  of 
soft  lard.  Mix  with  the  fingers  into  a  soft  dough.  Do  not  get  in  Too 
much  flour— it  must  be  quite  soft.  Roll  out  1  inch  thick  or  a  little 
more,  place  not  too  close  together  on  a  tin  and  bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven.  This  is  a  thoroughly,  tested  recipe.  Maple  syrup,  honey  or 
preserves  make  an  excellent  accompaniment. 

Baised  Graham  Biscuit. — One  pint  milk  or  water,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  half  cup  yeast.  (If  dry  yeast  is 
used,  take  half  cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  half  cupful  warm  water.) 
Use  enough  of  wheat  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter ;  add  the  remain- 
der of  the  ingredients  and  as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in 
with  a  spoon.  Set  away  until  morning.  In  the  morning  butter  a 
pan,  and  with  floured  hands  tear  off  bits  of  dough  the  size  of  an  egg, 
toll  lightly  between  the  palms,*  put  in  the  pan,  let  rise  20  minutes  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Rolls. 

Fresh  rolls  may  be  kept  on  hand  by  putting  in  a  refrigerator 
some  of  the  fresh  sponge  and  letting  it  rise  when  needed.  A  com- 
mon cause  of  failure  in  making  fancy  bread  and  rolls  is  mixing  the 
dough  too  stiff;  it  should  be  soft  enough  to  be  easily  worked,  without 
being  in  the  least  sticky. 

Egg  Rolls. — ^Two  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  small  cup  of  milk,  1  table- 
spoon of  lard  or  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  biscuit.  Roll  out,  cut  desired  size,  bake 
in  a  hot  oven.  Nice  biscuit  for  tea.  If  liked,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  white  sugar. 

Parker  House  Rolls  (with  Baking  Powder). — These  are  not  the 
old  original  Parker  House  Rolls,  like  the  following,  but  are  quicker 
made :    Sift  3  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  1  qUart  of  flour: 

COOK— 20 


Iron  Boll  Fan. 


306     BREAD.  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

put  in  1  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter ;  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  rub  well  together,  and 
make  into  a  dough,  with  1  pint  of  cold  milk.  Roll  out  less  than  half- 
inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  large  biscuit-cutter.  Spread  soft  butter  over 
the  top  of  each>  fold  them  together,  and  lay  a  little  apart  on  greased 
tins.  Brush  over  the  tops  with  sweet  milk  and  set  immediately  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Parker  House  Bolls. — Melt  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  in  a 
pan  of  milk,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and   3  teaspoons  of  siigar, 

and  when  lukewarm  "add.  half  yeast 
J^  ^^jT  cake  dissolved  in  warm  water  and  stir 
^•^^  in  all  the  flour  it  will  take  smoothly. 
Don't  knead.  Set  in  a  pan  of  warm 
water,  and  when  raised  to  twice  its  bulk 
stir  down.  Mix  at  noon  for  supper  and  stir  down  3  or  4  times. 
About  1^  hours  before  supper  turn  out  on  the  board  with  as  little 
flour  as  possible  and  roll  out  three-fourths  inch  thick,  cut  with  an  oval 
cutter,  dip  in  cream  or  melted  butter,  and  fold  ends  together,  or  put  a 
tiny  piece  of  butter  in  each  fold  (cream  is  best).  Let  rise  at  least  an 
hour;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till  iDrown.  Should  bake,  in  10  to  15 
minutes.  Some  6f  the  ordinary  bread  sponge  treated  the  same  way 
is  nearly  as  good.  The  secret  is  in  the  cream  or  melted  butter,  as 
they  go  into  tins. 

Vienna  Bolls. — ^Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour  banked  around  pan, 
one-half  pint  of  milk,  one-half  pint  'of  water ;  mix  to  a  thin  batter, 
(Quickly  add  one-half  pint  of  milk  in  which  has  been  dissolved  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  1  compressed  yeast  cake ;  leave  remainder  of  flour 
against  side  of  pan ;  cover  and  keep  free  from  air  60  minutes ;  then 
mix  in  rest  of  the  flour  until  dough  leaves  side  and  bottom  of  pan ; 
let  stand  for  2 1^  hours.  Divide  into  1  pound  pieces ;  subdivide  into 
12  pieces.  Flatten  these  small  pieces  of  dough  in  squares  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  fold  their  corners  to  the  centre,  pinch  them 
down  to  hold  them,,  and  turn  the  little  rolls  thus  made  over  on  a 
board  covered  with  cloth ;  let  thiem  stand  for  about  10  minutes,  turn 
them  up  again  on  a  baking-pan,  and  put  into  a  hot  oven  to  bake 
quickly,  for  about  15  minutes  ;  when  half  done  brush  them  with  milk, 
return  them  to  the  oven  and  finish  baking.  Some  trouble,  b»itthe 
result  is  delicious. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.      307 

Bread  Twist  Bolls. — Take  enough  bread  dough  in  the  rhorning 
for  a  tin  of  rolls.  Work  in  1  tablespoonfiil  butter  or  lard.  Divide 
the  dough  into  parts  the  size  of  an  egg,  subdividing  each  of  these 
into  2  unequal  pieces.  The  largest  piece  form  into  a  taper  roll.  Lay 
in  a  buttered  pan.  Do  not  let  .touch.  Divide  the  smaller  pieces  into 
3  pieces  each.  Roll  these  longer  than  the  others  and  braid.  Place  a 
braid  on  the  top  of  each  large  roll,  pinch  the  ends  of  the  two  together, 
wash  over  with  milk  and  bake. 

Frencli  BoUs,  Raised. — Two  cups  sweet  milk,  three-quarters  of 
a  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one-half  cup  of  yeast,  or  one-half 
cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  of  water,  1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  rise  over  night  In  the  morning 
add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  knead  and  let  rise  again.  Make  into  balls 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Then  roll  each  one  between  the  hands  to  make  a 
long  roll  (about  3  inches  long).  Place  close  together  in  even  rows  on 
-well-buttered  pans.  Cover  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
to  a  delicate  brown.     Glaze  with  sweet  milk  before  baking. 

Buns. 

Caraway  Buns. — Make  as  for  lemon  buns,  adding  1  heaping 
teaspoonful  caraway  seeds. 

Hot  Cross  Buns. — Three  cupfuls  of  milk,  l.cup  of  soft  yeast,  or 
1  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  warm  water.  Flour 
to  make  a  thick  batter.  Set  as  a  sponge  over  night.  In  the  morning, 
add  half  cupful  of  melted  butter,  1  pupful  sugar,  half  nutmeg,  grated, 
1  saltspoonful  salt.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Form 
into  balls,  flatten  out  with  the  hand,  and  mark  deeply  in  the  form  of 
a  cross  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  Lay  on  buttered  tins,  and  set  to 
rise,  and  bake  when  light.  Some  cooks  add  a  teaspoonful  of  corian- 
der seeds. 

Oat  Meal  Puffs. — Sift  together  one-half  pint  oat  meal,  one-ftalf 
pint  Graham  flour,  one-half  pint  wheat  flour,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  add  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  1  pint  sweet  milk.  Mix  into  a  thin  batter,  then  half  fill  well- 
greased  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  10  to  15  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Busks. 
Teast  Busks. — One-half  pint  sweet  milk,  1  teacup  yeast,  or  1 
compressed  yeast  cake,  2  eggs ;  mix  with  flour  to  stiff  batter  and 


308     BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

raise;  then  add  1  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
Tittle  nutmeg;  let  rise  again ;  then  knead  and  mould  into  shape;  let 
rise  and  bake ;  when  done,  wet  top  with  eggs,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
and  return  to  oven  again  for  a  moment.    Serve  hot. 

Dried  Busks. — Make  as  above  with  yeast.  When  ready  to 
bake,  roll  out  1  inch  thick.  Cut  in  round  cakes  with  a  biscuit  cutter, 
and  arrange  in  a  buttered  baking-pan  in  two  layers,  one  laid  carefully 
upon  another.  Butter  slightly  between  them.  Let  rise  half  an  hour, 
and  bake.  When  done,  lift  apart  and  throw  loosely  in  the  pan.  Put  in 
the  oven  when  the  fire  is  low,  and  leave  all  night;  when  sufficiently  dried 
and  browned,  put  in  a  clean  muslin  bag  and  hang  up  in  the  kitchen. 
It  will  be  at  least  three  days  before  they  are  ready  to  use.  To  serve, 
put  as  many  as  desired  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  cold  milk  over  them. 
When  soft,  drain,  and  eat  with  butter  or  cream.  Good  with  coffee, 
served  dry  ;  nice  for  invalids.  Will  keep  for  weeks.  Rusks  baked 
in  the  ordinary  form  can  be  sliced  lengthwise  in  two  or  three  slices, 
after  they  have  cooled,  and  dried  in  the  same  way. 

Gem*. 

-  ■>■  _ 

Graham  Gems.— Mix  Graham  flour  with  milk  to  form  a  stiff" 
batter ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  1  egg.  Bake  in  gems,  hot  and  well 
greased.  To  make  strictly  hygienic,  mix  the  batter  with  water  instead 
of  milk ;  omit  the  egg,  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  or  molasses 
to  aid  in  browning  the  gems.  A  very  quick  oven  must  be  used  in 
this  last  way. 

Butter  the  gem-pans  carefully,  first  heating  them  on  the  stove. 
Put  a  little  butter  in  the  bottom  of  each  one.  It  will  melt  and  rise  up 
on  the  sides  as  the  batter  is  dropped  in.  Fill  the  pans  two-thirds 
full,  leaving  room  to  rise.     Bake  about  20  minutes. 

Apple  G«ms. — Chop  4  sour  apples  very  fine ;  stir  into,  them  1 
beaten  egg,  1  quarter  cup  of  molasses,  and  \}4  cups  each  of  corn 
meal  and  sifted  flour;  dissolve  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  warm 
water  and  add  it,  using  enough  water  to  thin  batter.    Bake  in  buttered ' 
gem-pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Graham  G«ms  (with  Baldng  Powder). — One  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  1  beaten  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  in  Graham  flour  enough  for  a  good  batter. 
Bake  as  above.    A  change  in  this  may  be  made  by  taking  1  cup  of<' 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLL^  AND  HOT  CAKES.     309 

sour  milk  instead  of  sweet,  and  half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Take  a  levej 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  flatten  it  over  with  a  knife,  and  cut  it  smoothly  in 
half.    Bake  as  before.    Tear  gems  open  with  a  fork,  and  butter. 

Oatmeal  Grems. — One  cupful  of  oatmeal  soaked  over  night  in  1 
cupful  of  water.  In  the  morning,  add  1  cupful  sour  milk,  1  cupful 
flour,  three-quarters  tablespoonful  soda,  one-half  tablespoonful  salt,  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Mix,  and°bake  in  hot, 
well-buttered  gem-pans.  If  too  moist,  add  a  little  more  flour,  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  aiid  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  can  be  used  instead 
of  sour  milk  and  soda. 

Wbeat  Crems. — One  quart  flour,  1  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  (small)  of  butter.  Sift  the  flour  with 
the  salt ;  stir  the  milk  in  smoothly.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  well 
and  separately ;  stir  first  the  yolks  in  the  milk  and  flour,  then  the 
whites,  then  the  melted  cottolene.  Half  fill  the  gem-pans  and  bake 
in  a, deep  pan  or  on  a  baking  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven  for  25  min- 
utesj  if  baked  in  earthen  cups,  45  minutes.  Let  them  be  thoroughly 
baked,  or  they  will  fall  on  being  taken  from  the  oven. 

Rye  Gems. — One  pint  of  warm  milk  with  1  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  it,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  eggs,  well  beaten.  Rye  flour  enough 
to  make  a  thin  batter.     Bake  in  gem-pans.  ' 

Muffins. 

Muffin  rings  should  be  well  greased,  filled  two-thirds  full  and 
baked  upon  a  well-buttered  griddle  upon  the  stove,  turning  ring  and 
all  with  a  pancake  shovel  when  one  side  is  done  to  brown  the  other. 
Or  the  rings  may  be  filled  and  set  in  a 
buttered ,  pan  and  baked  in  the  oven. 
Turning  will  not  be  necessary.  Muffin 
rings  2^  inches  across  and  lj4  inches 
deep  are  the  most  convenient  size.     Gem  ironMtifan  Pan. 

irons    can   also   be  used.     Occasionally 

the  same  recipe  can  be  dropped  in  spoonfuls  on  a  griddle  and  baked, 
turning  over  with  a  pancake  shovel.  This  is  nice  when  haste  is  nec- 
essary.   Tear  opea  and  butter. 

Muffins,  Plain. — Three  cups  flour  before  sifting,  1  cup  water, 
1}4  cups  sweet  milk,  3  level  teaspoonfuls  butter,  2' tablespooidfuV 
sugar,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.    Mix  the  sugar  and  shortenin^r 


SIO     BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

lo  a  cream,  add  the  wetting,  then  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
into  it.  Beat  well,  heat  gem  irons  hot,  grease,  fill  nearly  full,  and 
bake  in  hot  oven  20  minutes.  An  egg  is  used  sometimes.  Sour 
milk  and  soda  may  be  substituted,  three-quarters  teaspoonful  soda. 

Baised  MufSns. — Four  cups  wheat  flour,  1^  pints  sweet  milk,  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  lard,  2  eggs,  one-half  teacupful  yeast.  Sift  the 
idour  into  a  pan  with  a  pinch  of  salt ;  warm  the  milk  and  add  cotto- 
fene,  and  stir  into  the  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  add  to  the  mixture, 
When  thoroughly  mixed  add  yeast.  Set  to  rise  about  3  hours  before 
using,  and  when  very  light  bake  in  muffin  rings  in  a  quick  oven. 
These  muffins  must  be  served  the  instant  they  come  from  the  oven. 
The  muffin  rings  can  be  put  on  a  griddle  and  baked  also  by  turning 
the  rings  over  with  a  pancake  turner.  If  wanted  for  breakfast  set 
over  night.  Tear  the  muffins  open  when  done,  put  a  bit  of  butter  in 
each  and  keep  warm  until  served.  Never  cut  them.  Graham  muffins 
can  be  made  the  same  way. 

Breakfast  Muffins. — Three  level  teaspoonfuls  butter,  2  eggg,  1 
pint  milk,, 3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder.  Soften  the  butter,  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  beat ;  add 
milk ;  mix ;  add  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder ;  beat  well ;  stir  in  well- 
beaten  whites,  bake  in  quick  oven  25  minutes  in  well-greased  rings. 

.SlnglisIiK  Muffins. — Make  as  above,  bake  in  muffin  rings. 

Waffles. 

The  first  essential  to  success  in  wafHes  is  a  well-fitting  waffle-iron. 
The  waffle-iron  should  fit  tightly  over  the  stove  hole.  There  should 
be  no  space  in  which  to  , 
admit  a  draught  of  air 
around  the  waffle-iron  to 
the  fire ;  yet  there  should 
be  space  enough  for  it  to 
turn  esisily. 

H«at  the  irons  thor- 
oughly before  beginning 
to  bake.  They  should 
be  as  hot  as  a  griddle. 
Grease  the  wafifle-irons 
with  a  pjece  of  beef  suet.  Waffle-iroa 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOt  CAKES.     311 

Be  sure  that  the  side  of  the  iron  on  which  the  batter  is  to  be  poured 
is  extra  hot,  and  as  soon  as  the  first  waffles  are  put  in  it  and  the  iron 
is  closed,  turn  it.  This  method  insures  Jheir  baking  on  both  sides. 
Fill  two-thirds  full  of  the  batter.  As  soon  as  they  are  baked,  lay 
them  on  a  plate,  butter  them,  lay  another  over  them,  and  serve  them. 

Raised  Waffles. — ^The  best  waffles  are  the  old-fashioned  kind 
raised  with  yeast.  These  call  for  a  quart  of  milk,  heated  boiling  hot, 
and  then  cooled  till  lukewarm ;  a  quart  and  a  cupful  of  flour,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  butter.  Stir  the  butter  into  the  hot 
milk,  pour  it  gradually,  when  it  is  lukewarm,  into  the  flour,  beating 
out  all  the  lumps.  Add  the  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and,  finally,  half  a  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  half 
a  cup  of  lukewarm  water.  Beat  the  batter  thoroughly  and  let  it  rise 
over  night.  Beat  it  again  in  the  morning,  and  let  it  rise  20  minutes 
more.  Fill  the  irons  two-thirds  full,  first  greasing  them  well.  Turn 
that  they  may  be  baked  on  each  side.  Butter  each  as  done  and  lay 
one  upon  another.  Serve  with  maple  sugar,  grated,  white  sugar  or 
maple  syrup. 

Quick  Waffles. — Sift  1  pint  of  flour  3  times  and  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  ^eat  the  ^olks  of  2  eggs  until  very  light ;  add  to  them  1 
cup  of  rich  milk ;  add  this  to  the  flour,  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  melted,  and  beat  until  light  and  smooth.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  add  to  the  butter  and  beat  again.  When 
ready  to  bake  add  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  put  the  batter  in 
a  pitcher,  have  the  waffle-iron  very  hot  and  thoroughly  greased. 
Pour  in  the  batter  carefully,  and,  as  soon  as  the  edges  are  set,  turn 
theiron  and  bake  the  second  side.  In  making  waffles  as  much  de- 
pends upon  the  even  and  quick  baking  as  upon  the  recipe  used. 

Conuueal  Waffles. — Scald  1  pint  of  Indian  meal  into  a  mush. 
While  hot  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt.  Let  cool.  Meanwhile  beat  separately  the  whites 
and  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Add  the  eggs  to  the  mush  and  stir  in  gradu- 
ally 1  quart  of  wheat  flour.  .  Add  one-half  pint  buttermilk  or  sour 
cream  in  which  has  been  dissolved  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking 
soda.  Thin  this  batter  to  the  proper  consistency  with  a  little  sweet 
or  sou^r  milk.  Waffle-irons  should  be  heated  in  advance  that  they 
may  be  hot  when  the  batter  is  ready.  Butter  the  irons  thoroughly, 
£11  two-thirds  fiill ;  bake  briskly. 


312      BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKESr 

Sally  Lunn. 

Raised  Sally  Liunn. — This  is  an  excellent  receipt  for  an  old- 
fashioned  teacake  which  is  still  very  poplilar  in  New  England.  One 
quart  of  flourt  4"eggs,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  warm 
milk,  half  an  yeast  cake.  One-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  milk,  butter,  soda 
and  a  little  salt.  Stir  the  flour  to  a  smooth  batter  and  beat  the  yeast 
in  well ;  set  to  rise  in  a  buttered  dish,  in  which  it  must  be  baked  and 
sent  to  table.  Let  it  rise  6  hours.  Bake  steadily  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  /'■ 

Sally  liunn.  Quick. — t)ne-half  cup  of  butter,  half  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of 
tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda ;  to  be  eaten  hot  with  butter.  Bake  in  a 
cake  tin  25  minutes,  or  until  a  straw  thrust  into  them  gently  comes 
up  free  frorp  dough. 

To  Serve  Sally  Liunn  (English.  Way). — Cut  them  thin,  and  toast 
both  sides;  butter  well,  then  place  together  again.  This  is  the  way 
they  are  served  in  England.     They  are  very  nice. 

Various  Oom  Cakes  and  Johimy  Cakes./- 
Corn  Cake. — Sour  milk  can  be  used  in  making  various  kinds  of 
corn  bread,  and  many  cooks  prefer  it,  in  a  majority  of  cases,  to  sweet 
milk.  Here  is  a  recipe  in  which  it  is  excellent:  Mix  together  2  cups 
of  cornmeal,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir 
into  2  cups  of  sour  milk;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  2 
well-beaten  eggs  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  beat  thoroughly  and 
bake  in  shallow  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

Custard  Com  Cake. — ^Oneand  two-thirds  cups  of  cornmeal,  one- 
third  cup  flourj  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  scant  teaspoon 
of  soda,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs ;  mix  the 
dry  materials  together,  beat  the  eggs,  add  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  1 
of  sour ;  save  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  to  pour  over  the  whole  when  in  the 
spider;  put  butter  in  spider,  let  it  get  hot,  pour  in  the  batter,  let  bake 
in  moderate  oven  1  hour.  There  is  something  in  baking  in  the  iron 
spider  or  frying-pan  that  seems  to  improve  the  cake,  though  it  can 
be  baked  in  an  ordinary  pan, 

Corii  Pop-overs. — Boil  1  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  1  cup  of  cornmeal, 
butter^  size  of  walnut,  piAcb  of  salt;  when  cold  add  3  eggs,  yolks  and 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.      313 

whites  beaten  separately.  Bake  20  minutes  in  gem  tins,  which  should 
be  hot  and  well  greased. 

Parker  House  Corn  Cake. — One  egg  and  small  piece  of  butter; 
add  sugar  or  molasses  to  taste;  1  coffee-cup  of  Indian  meal  and  1  coffee- 
cup  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  1  cup  of  milk. 

Sweetened  Jolinny  Cake. — One  pint  buttermilk,  half  cupful  mo- 
lasses, 2  cupfuls  cornmeal,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  cupful  wheat 
flour,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  lard,  1  egg.  Use  less 
sweetening,  if  preferred.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  rule  will  make 
two  cakes.    Use  round  tins.     Cakes  rise  better  in  round  tins.     Some 


cooks  use  a  small  iron  frying-pan.  Serve  hotwith  plenty  of  butter.  This 
same  batter  will  make  good  cornmeal  muffins.  It  can  also  be  dropped 
by  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  greased  griddle  and  turned  with  a  pancake 
turner.  Cakes  baked  in  this  way  are  light  and  delicious.  Tear  apart 
and  butter.  It  also  makes  a  gpod  fritter  batter  to  fry  in  hot  lard.  If 
sweet  milk  is  used,  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Suet  Johnny  Cake. — One  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  1  }4  cups  of  sour  milk,  small  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  cornmeal  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Golden  Johnny  Cake. — Cook  in  steamer  and  pulp  fine  1  fine 
grain  squash  (Hubbard  is  the  best),  thicken  1  pint  sweet  milk  witb 
the  squash  pulp  until  the  consistency  of  rich  cream,  sweeten  lightlj 
with  white  sugar.    Take  3  parts  Indian  meal,  1  part  best  flour,  thp 


S14     BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

quantity  being  sufficient  to  make  ulual  Johnny  cake  batter ;  add  3 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half- teacupful  raisins,  1  teacupful 
currants,  1  pinch  salt.  A  little  good  butter  worked  in  when  pulping 
the  squash  improves  the  cake.    The  suet  can  be  omitted. 

Griddle  Cakes. 

Suggestions. — ^A  very  little  shortening  added  to  griddle  cakes  or 
pancakes,  makes  them  more  tender.  .  A  soapstone  griddle  for  hot 
"cakes  requires  no  greasing.  A  substitute  for  fat  will  be  found  in  rub- 
bing the  griddle  with  the  cut  side  of  a  white  turnip ;  there  will  be  no 
smoke  or  taste.    If  fat  i^  used,  put  on  very  little. 

The  first  lot  of  griddle  cakes  is  never  quite  as  good  as  those  that 
follow,  because  the  iron  is  smooth  and  the  heat  even  after  use.  Serve 
them  smoking  hot,  straight  from  the  stove,  and  _of  a  delicate  golden 
brown.  Send  with  them  maple  syrup,  grated  maple  sugar,  or  syrup 
made  from  melted  sugar.  A  little  water  added  to  buttermilk,  will 
prevent  cakes  being  sticky. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. — One  pint  of  buckwheat  flour,  half  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  half  cupful  cornmeal,  Graham  or  wheat  flour ;  3  tablespoonfuls 
soil  yeast,  or  one  quarter  yeast  cake,  dissolved  jn  warm  water ;  1 
tablespoonful  molasses,  1  quart  warm  water  to  make  a  batter,  or  sweet 
milk  and  water  mixed.  Beat  thoroughly.  Set  to  rise  in  a  large 
pitcher  or,  better  still,  a  regular  pancake  pait  with  a  spout  fbr  conve- 
nience in  pouring  out  the  batter  to  bake.  Set  the  batter  to  rise  early 
in  the  evening,  in  a  moderately  warm  place,  where  the  temperature 
will  not  vary.  In  the  morning  thin  with  a  little  sweet  milk,  in  which 
half  teaspoonful  soda  has  been  dissolved,  or  warm  water  can  be  used. 
Grease  the  griddle  with  a  piece  of  beef  suet,  cut  from  the  beefsteak ; 
always  leave  a  cupful  at  the  bottom  to  start  with,  instead  of  using 
yeast,  after  the  first  time.  If  the  family  is  large,  use  twic«  the  quan- 
tity of  flour.  The  Indian  meal  should  have  boiling  -water  poured 
over  it  before  adding  it  to  the  batter.  Some  cooks  add  a  well-beaten 
egg  to  the  batter.     -^ 

Quick  Buckwheat  Cakes. — One  pint  buckwheat,  sifted  with  2 
heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Itablespoon- 
ful  molasses  or  brown  sugar,  to  make  them  brown  well.  Enough 
water  to  make  a  batter.  Bake  at  once.  A  little  wheat  flour  and  corn 
meal  can  be  added. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.     315 

Graham  Griddle  Cakes,  Raised. — ^Two  cups  of  Graham  Hour, 
4  cupfuls  wheat  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls  yeast  or  one  quarter  yeast  cake, 
dissolved  in  warm  water.  Warm  water  or  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  tedrning  reserve  1  cupful  of 
the  batter  for  yeast  next  time.  Into  the  remainder  stir  half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  sweet  milk  or  warm  water.  A  well-beaten 
egg  is  a  nice  addition.  These  are  considered  more  wholesome  than 
buckwheat  cakes,  and  closely  resemble  them  in  taste.  Wheat  griddle 
cakes  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Quick  Graham  Cakes. — Dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  1  spoon- 
ful of  sour  milk ;  put  it  in  1  pint  of  sour  milk ;  mix  together  a  cupful 
of  sifted  Graham  and  a  cupful 
of  wheat  flour ;  stir  in  slowly, 
beating  well ;  add  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of 
sour  cream,  1  egg,  well  beaten ; 
add  more  flour  if  too  thin,  and 
more  milk  or  water,  if  too  thick. 
The  same  rule  can  be  used  with 
sweet  milk,  and  the  addition  of 
2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 

tartar ;  or  baking  powder  may  „        ^ 

be   used   instead.      If  baking  Soapstone  Gnddle. 

powder  is  used,  omit  the  soda.    These  cakes  are  nice  without 
the  egg. 

Bye  Griddle  Cakes. — One  cup  sour  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  mo- 
lasses, half  teaspoonful  soda,  half  cup  wheat  flour,  1  egg,  well  beaten, 
half  teaspoonful  salt.  Enough  rye  flour  to  make  a  batter  about  the 
thickness  of'cake  batter.  Beat  it  thoroughly.  Bake  on  a  hot 
griddle. 

Flamiel  Cakes. — One  pint  sour  milk  or  sour  cream,  3  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  melted  lard  or  butter,  if  milk  is  used ;  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
soda ;  flour  for  batter  to  bake  on  griddle.  Leave  the  whites  of  eggs 
till  just  before  baking,  then  beat  very  light  and  stir  in  lightly. 

'  Flapjacks. —Make  a  batter  of  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  soda  and  a  little  salt,  with  wheat  flour  enough  to 
thicken  sufficiently  to  fry  nicely.  Fry  in  cakes  the  size  of  an  ordinary 
breakfast  plate.     Butter  each  cake  and  sprinkle  it  with  sugar,  piling 


316     BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

them  one  on  top  of  another.  A  little  grated  nutmeg  improves  them, 
Have  the  batter  as  thin  as  it  is  possible  to  turn  the  cakes  well.  These 
are  delicious,  especially  if  sour  cream  is  used. 

Wlieat  Pancakes,  Sweet  Milk. — One  egg,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tarter,  1  teaspoonful  butter, 
or  lard  will  make  more  tender.  Add  flour  to  make  a  batter.  The 
eggs  can  be  omitted.     Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Oriddle  Bolls. — Prepare  an  ordinary  wheat-cake  batter;  have 
the  gridiron  hot ;  bake  each  cake  the  size  of  a  lunch  plate.  Soon  as 
each  cake  is  done,  quickly  spread  with  butter  and  cover  with  maple 
sugar,  roll  into  a  neat  roll,  lay  in  covered  dish,  place  over  boiling 
water  till  all  are  done,  then  serve. 

Crushed  \rheat  Griddle  Cakes. — 1  cupful  crushed  wheat,  1^ 
pints  flour,  1  teaspoonful  brown  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tea- 
spoopfuls  baking  powder,  1  egg,  1  pint  of  milk,  sweet.  Boil  the 
crushed  wheat  in  three-quarters  pint  of  water  1  hour,  then  dilute  with 
beaten  egg  and  milk.  Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  powder ; 
add  to  crushed  wheat  preparation  when  quite  cold,  mix  into  smooth 
batter.  Bake  on  hot  griddle ;  brown  delicately  on  both  sides;  serve 
with  cream  sauce,  or  serve  with  butter  and  syrup. 

Swedisb  Griddle  Cakes. — One  pint  wheat  flour,  sifted ;  6  eggs, 
beaten  separately  20  minutes  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle.  Make  this 
when  setting  bread  at  night,  and  use  half  cupful  of  sponge  for  yeast. 

Oyster  Pan  Cakes,  a  Supper  Dish. — Put  half  cupful  of  sour 
cream  in  a  pint  measure,  fill  it  up  with  sour  milk.  Pour'  in  a  dish, 
thicken  with  wheat  flour.  Dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  hot  water,  stir  into  the  batter;  add  half  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  the  yolks  first.  Beat 
well,  lastly  add  the  whites.  The  batter  should  be  of  the  same  con- 
sistency as  other  pancakes ;  have  -a  few  oysters  ready,  set  them  over 
.the  fire  in  their  own  liquor  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl;  remove 
them,  drain,  and  sprinkle  a  dust  of  salt  over  them ;  when  the  batter 
is  on  the  griddle,  put  2  oysters  on  the  top  of  each  cake  before  baking, 

turn  and  brown. 

Dessert  Pancakes. 

Grandma's  Griddle  Cakes.'^Make  batter  as  for  Oyster  Pan- 
cakes. Have  a  smooth  iron  frying  pan  greased  with  butter  on  top  of 
the  range:  when  hot,  pour  in  enough  batter  to  cover  the  bottom,  tura 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  RQLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES.     317 

the  pan  around  often,  and  with  a  .pancake-turner  loosen  it.  When 
brown,  lift  carefully  and  turn  over.  Have  a  very  large  plate  hot,  and 
when  the  cake  is  done,  lift  it  to  the  plate,  keep  hot  and  bak?  another, 
spread  each  one  with  butter  and  maple  sugar  shaved  fine;  as  fast  as 
baked,  pile  on  top  of  the  others ;  when  five  or  six  are  baked,  cut 
through  the  centre,  then  cut  each  half  in  four  equal  parts  like  apiece 
of  pie.     These  are  delicious  for  tea  or  for  dessert. 

Pancakes  a  la  Celestiue. — Into  a  deep  bowl  sift  1  pint  of  flour 
and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  teaspo^ful  of  salt.  Have 
ready  either  a  pint  of  cream  or  1  of  milk  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  in  it.  Break  3  eggs  into  the  flour,  add  a  spoonful  or  2 
of  the  milk  to  make  beating  easier,  and  beat  all  till  a  smooth  batter. 
Add  the  milk  or  cream  at  the  last.  The  batter  miist  be  very  thin, 
and  they  are  to  be  baked  as  large  as  a  breakfast  plate.  As  soon  as 
a  delicate  brown,  spread  with  strawberry  or  any  jam  preferred,  and 
roll,  dredging  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  each  and  serving  them 
very  hot. 

Pancakes  with  Sauce. — Make  pancakes,  after  any  desired  rule. 
Bake  them  the  size  of  a  breakfast  plate,  and  make  the  following 
sauce.  Sauce  :  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  let  boil  up.  Dissolve  1  tables 
spoonful  in  a  little  cold  milk  or  water.  Add  pinch  of  salt,  a  luttip  of 
butter  size  of  walnut,  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste 
and  flavor  with  lemon.  Have  this  sauce  ready,  and  as  the  cakes  are 
baked  place  in  a  deep  dish,  turning  sauce  over  each  cake  as  they  are 
taken  from  the  griddle,  placing  one  over  the  other.  Cut  down 
through  them  all  in  triangular  pieces  to  serve. 

Scotcb  Scones. — There  are  two  kinds  of  scones,  one  made  of 
raised  dough,  the  other  of  sour  milk.  To  make  the  former,  proceed 
as  for  making  raised  biscuits.  When  raised  enough  to  prepare  for 
baking,  roll  about  an  inch  or  less  thick,  dot  thickly  with  currants  or 
small  raisins,  pressing  them  into  the  dough.  Bake  in  a,  round  tin, 
score  almost  through  the  dough  to  make  quarters,  and  wet  these 
cuttings  to  keep  them  from  coming  together.  Glaze  the  outside  with 
sugar  melted  in  water.  The  quickly  made  scones  are  made  like  sour- 
milk  biscuit,  making  the  dough  rather  sweet ;  or  they  may  be  made 
of  sweet  milk,  like  baking-powder  biscuits,  but  they  must  be  round, 
filled  with  raisins,  marked  in  quarters,  and  glazed,  or  they  are  not 
scones.    They  are  very  good  either  hot  or  cold. 


318      BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ROLLS  AND  HOT  CAKES. 

Crackers. 

Com  Starch  Crackers. — One  and  a-half  pint  flour,  half  pint  com 
starch,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  lard,  half  pint  liiilk  (sweet).  Sifr 
together  flour,  corn  starch,  salt,  sugar  and  powder;  rub  in  lard  cold", 
add  milk,  and  mix  into  smooth,  firm  dough.  Flour  the  board  a  little, 
turn  out  dough,  give  few  quick,  vigorous  kneadings  to  complete 
smoothness.  Set  it  under  cloth  ten  minutes.  Then  roll  it  with 
a  rolling-pin  exceedingly  thin,  cut  with  round  cutter,  pricking  each 
cracker  with  a  fork,  lay  up6n  slightly  greased  baking  tin,  wash  over 
with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  7  or  8  minutes.  When  cold, 
store  them  for  use. 

Milk  Cpack€rs.-^-Rub  one-half  cupful  butter  with  3  cups  of  flour; 
dissolve  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of  water  and 
stir  in  the  flour.  Add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tar- 
tar and  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  stifl"  dough.  Knead  well,  beat 
with  the  rolling-pin,  pounding  it  out  thin.  Roll  out,  cut  with  a  bis- 
cuit cutter,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  quickly. 

Soda  Crackers. — Five  cups  of  unsifted  flour,  one-half  cupful  lard, 
one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Rub  all  thor- 
oughly in  the  flour.  Add  cold  water  su^cient  to  knead  up  stifi^  beat 
with  the  rolling-pin  15  or  20  minutes.  Roll  thin  as  for  pie  crust,  cut 
in  squares,  prick  jwith  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they 
are  just  touched  with  a  pale  brown. 

Grabam  Crackers. — One  quart  best  Graham,  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  one-half  pint  milk,  good  measure.  Sift -together 
Graham,  sugar,  salt  and  powder ;  rub  in  lard  cold,  add  milk,  mix  into 
smooth,  consistent  dough.  Flour  the  board,  turn  out  dough,  knead 
well  5  minutes.  Roll  with  rolling-pin  to  thickness  of  one-quarter  of 
an  inch ;  cut  with  knife  into  small,  envelope-shape  crackers.  Bak^  in 
father  hot  oven  with  care  (as  they  burn  readily)  10  minutes.  Handle 
carefully*  while  hot ;  when  cold  store  for  use. 

Graham  Cream  Crackers. — ^Take  1  part  of  cream  to  4  parts  ol 
milk,  mix  with  flour,  as  soft  as  can  be  handled ;  knead  20  minutes  ; 
roll  very  thin ;  cut  square  and  bake  quickly.  Handle  carefully  while 
hot ;  pack  away  in  a  stone  jar  when  cooL 


In  thickening  all  kinds  of  soups  and 
gravies,  where  flour  is  used,  a  much  bet- 
ter way  is  to  stir  the  dry  flour  into  butter, 

^'^  or  into  the  fat  in  the  pan  where  meat  is  roasted,  and  stir  until 
smooth ;  then  slowly  add  to  the  thickened  butter  or  fat  the 
soup  or  water  for  the  gravy.  In  this  way  there  will  never  be  lumps 
to  make  it  necessary  to  strain.  When  yolks  of  eggs  are  used  for 
thickening  a  soup  or  sauce  beat  them  well,  then  add  a  gill  of  cold 
hquid  to  every  2  yolks.  Stir  it  into  the  hot  liquid  and  stir  it  all  the 
time  the  dish  is  on  the  fire!,  which  should  never  be  more  than  a 
minute.  Gravy  will  generally  be  lifmpy  if  the  thickening  is  poured  in 
while  the  pan  is  over  the  fire.  Set  the  pan  off  until  the  thickening 
is  well  stirred  in,  then  place  on  the  fire  again  and  cook  thoroughly. 
A  too  rapid  boiling  ruins  the  flavor  of  any  sauce;  it  must  boil  once, 
but  should  never  more  than  simmer  afterwards.  When  sauce  boils 
from  the  side  of  the  pan  it  is  done. 

Browning  for  Gravies. — Put  1  pound  of  lump  sugar  into  an  iron 
pan  with  a  smallcupful  of  water,  place  on  a  hot  stove  and  allow  it  to 
boil  until  it  burns  ;  then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  Pour  off  the 
liquid,  which,  when  cold,  bottle  for  use.  A  few  drops  of  this  added 
to  gravies,  etc.,  will  make  them  a  beautiful  rich  brown. 

Browned  Flour; — Sift  a  quart  of  flour  into  a  dripping  pan,  set  in 
a  hot  oven.  Stir  well;  do  not  burn.  When  it  is  rather  a  dark 
brown,  put  in  a  glass  jar.  One-third  more  of  this  is  needed  than  of 
raw  flour. 

Glace  to  Use. — Glace  is  merely  very  strong  gravy  boiled  db\yn 
until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  liquid  jelly;  when  it  is  of  this  thicks 
ness  pour  it  from  the  saucepan  at  once  or  it  will  burn ;  when  it  is  re- 
quired for  use  stand  the  jar  in  which  it  is  kept  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,"^nd  melt  it  gently;  to  glace  cutlets  or  meats,  lay  it  on  with 
a  brush  until  it  forms  a  varnish. 

Boux  for  Gravies,  etc. — A  roux  is  simply  flour  and  butter  melted 
together,  and  is  really  the  foundation  of  most  gravies  and  sauces. 
Take  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  in  a  hot  saucepan ;  when  it  melts 

319 


320  SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

ftnd  is  quite  hot,  stir  in  gradually  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  When  it 
is  thoroughly  blended,  it  is  ready  for  the  foundation  of  any  sort  of 
gravy.  If  onion  flavor  is  liked,  put  some  minced  onion  in  the  butter 
and  flour,  and  let  it  simmer,  stirring  all  the  time,  until  it  is  a  delicate 
reddish  brown. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce. — Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of 
flour  into  a  saucepan;  when  melted  and  smooth,  add  one-half  pint 
of  boiling  water ;  stir  constantly  until  boiling ;  add  a  half-teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  anothfef  tablespoonful  of  butter,  cut  into  bits,  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemoft.  If  preferred,  add  milk  instead 
of  water  to  make  the  sauce,  and  omit  the  lemon.  Soup  stock  is 
sometimes  used  instead  of  water  or  milk.  If  this  is  to  be  served 
with  fish,  cut  up  several  hard-boiled  eggs  and  add  to  it.  Seasoned 
with  curry  powder,  it  is  converted  into  a  curry  sauce.  A  covered 
saucepan  lined  with  porcelain  will  be  best  to  use.  If  the  sauce  is  a 
little  too  thick,  add  more  milk  or  water,  hot,  until  it  is  the  consistency 
of  thick  cream.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  This  is  excei- 
''Int  to  serve  up  minced  remnants  of  chicken  or  veal  in  ragouts. 

Brown  Butter  Sauce.^Let  the  floui-  and  butter  blend  together 
over  the  fire  as  above,  but^stir  slowly  until  the  mixture  is  thoroughly 
browned,  but  not  burned,  adding  a  few  slices  of  onion.  Water  can 
be  used  to  thin,  but  the  proper  mixing  is  soup  stock.  This  sauce 
csm  be  seasoned  with  spices,  salt,  pepper  and  chopped  pickles ;  whole 
peppers,  4  or  5  allspice,  a  spray  of  parsley  are  suitable  for  seasoning, 
also  mushrooms  or  capers.  This  makes  a  brown  ragout,  and  is  suit- 
able for  beef  and  venison  ragouts. 

Cream  Saiice. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls 
butter,  1  cupful  of  milk  or  cream.  Rub  butter  and  flour  smooth  over 
the  fi?e  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  boiling  milk  slowly.  Stir  until 
smooth.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  This  is  a  nice  sauce 
for  nearly  every  kiijd  of  vegetable  and  also  for  fish.  Chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs  are  an  addition  to  it,  if  for  fish. 

WMte  Sauce. — One  cupful  white  soup  stock,  1  cupful  of  milk,  a 
little  minced  onion,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoonfuls  but 
ter,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful 
pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Cook  butter  and  onion  to- 
gether 10  minutes.  Stir  in  the  flour  slowly  and  smoothly.  Add  the 
boiling  stock,  let  boil  up  and  add  the  milk  or  seasoning,  and  serve; 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES.  321 

add  the  lemon  juice.     This  sauce  may  be  used  for  boiled  or  baked 
fish,  meats  or  game. 

Oyster  Sauce. — To  make  oyster  sauce,  put  1  pint  of  small  oysters, 
with  their  liquor,  into  a  saucepan,  and  heat  them  to  boiling  point. 
Skim  out  the  oysters  and  add  to  the  liquor  1^  cups  of  milk,  and 
when  it  is  boiling  add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  creamed  with  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and 
let  the  sauce  boil  up  once.  Then  add  the  oysters,  and  it  is  ready  to 
serve.     Extremely  nice  with  boiled  turkey  and  chicken. 

Celery  Sauce. — Boil  5  or  6  heads  of  celery  (removing  the  green 
portions  and  cutting  up  the  remainder).  When  tender,  drain.  Mix 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  a  pint  of 
cream  or  milk.  Turn  over  the  celery.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, season  with  salt,  and  let  boil  up.    Nice  for  boiled  fowls. 

Nasturtiulu  Sauce. — An  excellent  substitute  for  capers  are  nas- 
turtium seeds.  Soak  the  seeds  in  a  strong  brine  36  hours,  drain  and 
throw  into  fresh  water  and  let  them  remain  over  night.  Drain  again 
and  place  in  bottles.  Take  a  few  pieces  of  mace,  some  whole  pepper 
corns,  and  a  little  sugar,  and  put  in  the  viflegaf  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil.     Pour  on  the  seeds  and  cork  immediately. 

Caper  Sauce. — To  1  pint  of  drawn  butter  add  1  tablespoonful  of 
capers  with  the  vinegar  from  the  bottle.     Serve  with  boiled  mutton. 

liobster  Sauce. — Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour  in  a  bowl,  set  in  boiling  water  and  stir  gradually  until 
thick ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  finely-chopped  boiled 
lobster  and  serve. 

Egg  Sauce. — Make  a  white  sauce  with  one-half  pint  of  milk,  a 
lump  of  butter,  salt  and  flour  to  thicken.  Take  3  hard-boiled  eggs, 
remove  the  shells  and  cut  them  up  when  the  sauce  is  cooked.  Stir 
Ihem  with  the  eggs  and  serve.  This  sauce  is  delicious  with  boiled 
Ash. 

Brown  Gravy. — Remove  nearly  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  in  the 
pan  and  add  to  it  enough  hot  water  to  make  the  required  quantity, 
add  browned  flour  dry  until  it  is  thick  enough,  then  strain  it  and  add 
to  each  cupful  of  the  gravy  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  1  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped  pickles  and  capers. 

COOK— 21 


■S'^'&'S^t^'S. 


PossiBi,Y  the  least  expensive'  article  put  up 
by  housekeepers  for  winter  use  is  catsup,  a 
variety  of  which  can  be  made  at  very  small  cost 
The  tomato  and  cucumber  are  the  best  vegetables 
for  the  purpose,  and  can  be  used  both  ripe  and  green. 
They  may  be  cooked  and  seasoned  in  a  number  of  different 
ways,  or  made  in  their  raw  state.  The  best  and  most  perfect 
Vegetables  and  fruits  only  should  be  used  for  catsups;  the  spices 
should  be  pure,  and  so  commingled  as  to  prevent  any  one  prevailing 
to  the  exclusion  of  others;  cloves,  allspice,  mace  and  cinnamon 
being  generally  used.  Onions,  garlic,  horse-radish,  black  and  white 
mustard  seed,  with  celery  seed,  give  an  e?tcellent  flavor.  The  vinegar 
used  should  be  pure  and  strong.  A  porcelain-lined  kettle  is  best  for 
cooking  catsups.  After  being  made,  they  should  be  bottled  or  put 
in  glass  jars,  sealed  and  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Catsups  from  fruits 
such  as  gooseberries,  grapes  or  currants,  may  be  made  from  the  canned 
fruit  at  any  convenient  time,  but  are  better  made  from  the  fresh  fruit. 

In  making  catsups,  -  if  whole  spices  tied  up  in  cloth  are  used 
while  boiling  down,  the  article  will  be  left  a  clear  red.  Tomato  catsup 
is  many  per  cent,  improved  if  served  hot.  To  heat  with  little 
trouble,  fill  a  smal  bottle  with  enough  of  the  catsup  to  serve  at  one 
time;  cork  tightly  and  stand  in  a  dish  of  cold  water,  allowing  the 
water  to  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point. 

Tomato  Catsup.— Twelve  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled ;  2  large  onions, 
4  green  peppers,  chopped  ;  2  tablespoons  of  salt,  2  of  brown  sugar,  2 
of  ginger,  i. of  cinnamon,  i  of  mustard,  a  nutmeg  grated,  4  cupfuls  of 
vinegar.  Boil  all  together  until  thoroughly  cooked  (about  3  hours), 
stirring  frequently.  Bottle  while  hot.  I<eave  the  onions  whole,  and 
remove  before  bottling. 

encumber  Catsup. — Grate  large,  green  cucumbers  on  a  horse- 
radish grater  ;  drain,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  throughT  a  sieve 
to  remove  the  seeds.  Add  a  quatftity  of  grated  horse-radish,  and 
sufficient  vinegar  to  make  the  consistei^y  of  tomato  catsup.  Bottle, 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place, 
822 


CATSUPS  AND  SPICED  FRUITS. 


323 


Mushroom  Catsnp.4-Take  half  a  bushel  of  freshly  gathered 
mushrooms  ;^  wipe  them  carefully  with  a  damp  cloth;  put  a  layer  in 
the  bottom  of  a  large  stone  jar ;  sprinkle 
with  sak;  add  more  mushrooms  and  salt 
until  all  are  used.  Let  stand  over  night  ; 
mash  them,  and  strain  off  the  juice.  To 
every  pint  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper  and  half  a  dozen  whole  cloves,  hah 
a  teaspoonful  of  allspice;  put  into  a  pre- 
serve kettle  and  boil  slowly  until  thick. 
Strain  and  thin  with  2  tablcspoonfuls  of  vin- 
egar to  every  pint.  Put  in  bottles  and  seal. 
Some  add  more  spices,  but  this  tends  to 
destroy  the  delicate  flavor  of  mushrooms.        Horse-BadiBh  Grater. 

Old  Yirginla  Catsup. — ^Take  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  half 
a  peck  of  white  onions,  3  ounces  of  white  mustard  seed,  1  ounce  each 
of  allspice  and  cloves,  half  a  pint  of  mixed  mustard,  an  ounce  each  of 
black  pepper  and  celery  seed,  and  1  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Chop 
the  tomatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  3  hours; 
drain  the  water  off ;  put  in  a  preserve  kettle  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients.    Cover  witl^  vinegar,  set  on  the  fire  to  boil  slowly  for  1  hour. 

Southern  Catsup. — ^Take  half  a  gallon  of  green  cucumbers; 
after  being  peeled  and  chopped,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  6 
hours ;  pour  the  water  from  them,  and  cover  with  hot  vinegar.  Pre- 
pare half  a  gallon  of  cabbage  the  same 
way.  Chop  1  dozen  small  white  onions, 
pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  let 
stand  half  an  hour.  Chop  1  quart  of 
green  tomatoes,  1  pint  of  tender  green 
beans,  1  dozen  green  peppers,  and  1 
dozen  small,  young  ears  of  corn ;  scald 
and  drain.  Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  horse-radish,  1  teacupful  of  ground 
mustard,  2  cupfuls  of  white  mustard 
seed,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric,  1  each 
mon,  cayenne,  and  celery  seed,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  and  1 
pound  of  sugar.  Put  in  a  jar  with  the  prepared  vegetables,  and  pour 
over  boiling  vinegar  to  cover. 


Set  of  Spice  Boxes, 
of  ground  mace,  cinna- 


324  CATSUPS  AND  SPICED  FRUITS. 

Walnut  Catsup. — Pound  to  a  mass  120  green  walnuts,  gathered 
when  a  pin  can  pierce  them.  Put  to  the  mass  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  salt  and  one  quart  of  good  vinegar,  stir  every  day  for  a 
fortnight,  then  strain  and  squeeze  the  liquor  from  them  through  a  cloth 
and  set  aside;  put  to  the  husks  one-half  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  let 
stand  all  night ;  strain  and  squeeze  them  as  before.  Put  the  liquor, 
with  that  which  was  put  aside,  add  to  it  Ij^  ounces  of  whole  peppers, 
40  cloves,  one-half  ounce  of  nutmeg  (grated)  and  one-half  an  ounce 
of  ginger.  Boil  all  for  one-half  an.  hour,  closely  covered,  then  strain 
and  when  cold  bottle  and  cork  securely.  White  walnuts  are  very  nice 
for  catsup. 

Celery  Catsup.^Bruise  1  ounce  of  celery  seed,  1  teaspoonful 
white  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  dozen  oysters  in  a  mortar. 
Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  1  quart  of  best  white  vinegar  and  bottle 
for  use. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Take  1  quart  of  oysters,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
1  teaspoonful  each  of  cayenne  pepper  and  mace,  1  teacupful  of-cider 
vinegar,  add  1  teacupful  of  sherry.  Chop  the  oysters  and  boil^in 
their  own  liquor  with  the-teacupful  of  vinegar,  skimming  as  the  scum 
rises.  Boit  3  minutes,  strain,  return  the  liquor  to  the  fire,  add  the 
wine,  pepper,  salt  and  mace.  Boil  15  minutes,  and  when  cold,  bottle 
for  use,  sealing  the  corks.    The  sherry  can  be  omitted. 

Chutney  Saiice. — Cut  2  quarts  of  green  tomatoes  in  slices,  take 
out  the  seeds,  sprinkle  with  3  tablespoottfuls  of  salt,  and  let  them 
stand  over  night.  Drain  the  tomatoes  through  a  colander,  chop,  put 
in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  add  2  quarts  of  sour  apples  that-have  been 
pared,  quartered  and  chopped  fine,  2  chopped  green  peppers,  1  pound 
of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  2  small  onions  minced,  2  pints  of 
strong  cider  vinegar,  and  simmer  for  2  hours.  Then  add  1  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed,  two  each  of  ginger 
and  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  and  cook  slowly  for  another 
hour.  Pour  into  pint  glass  fruit  jars ;  seal  while  hot,  and  when  cold 
wrap  each  jar  in  paper  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

ClulU  Sauce. — Take  24  large  ripe  tomatoes;  4  white  onions,  4 
green  peppers,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  1  of  cinnamon,  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ground  cloves  and  allspice  mixed,  a  teacupful  of  sugar 
with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  vinegar ;  peel  the  tomatoes  and  onions  ; 
chop  fine ;  add  the  vinegar,  spices,  salt  and  sugar;   put  into  a  pre- 


CATSUPS  AND  SPICED  FRUITS.  325 

serve  kettle ;  set  over  the  fire  and  let  bpil  slowly  for  3  hours.  Bottle 
and  seal.  This  is  excellent,  and  will  be  found  much  less  trouble  than 
the  strained  tomato  catsup. 

Unspiced  Chilli  Sauce. — Twelve  good-isized  ripe  tomatoes,  2  red 
(or  green)  peppers,  2  large  onions,  2  cups  of  cider  vinegar,  half  a  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  1  even  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Chop  the  onions  and 
peppers  together  quite  fine,  scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  cut  them  up, 
put  all  together  and  boil  for  2  or  3  hours.  Cover  close  and  it  will 
keep  for  months. 

Spiced  Cherries. — Seven  pounds  of  cherries,  4  pounds  of  sugar, 
1  pint  of  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  of  ginger-root,  1  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  mace.  Put  the  vinegar  and  sugar  on 
to  boil,  mix  tiie  spices  and  divide  them  into  4  parts.  Put  each  part 
into  a  small  square  of  muslin,  tie  tightly,  and  then  throw  them  into 
the  sugar  and  vinegar.  When  this  mixture  is  hot  add  the  cherries ; 
bring  all  to  boiling  point,  take  from  the  fire  and  turn  carefully  into  a 
stone  jar.  Stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  Next  day  drain  all  the 
liquor  from  the  cherries  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  stand  it  over  a 
moderate  fire,  and  when  boiling  hot  pour  it  back  in  the  jar  over  the 
cherries.  Next  day  drain  and  heat  again  as  before,  and  do  this  for  9 
consecutive  days ;  the  last  time  boiling  the  liquor  down  until  there  is 
just  enough  to  cover  the  fruit.  Add  the  fruit  to  it,  bring  the  whole 
to  a  boil,  and  put  in  jars  or  tumblers  for  keeping.  A  delicious  relish. 

Spiced  Cranberries. — Five  pounds  of  cranberries,  3^  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  scant  pint  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves.  Cook  slowly  2  hours.  Nice  with  meats. 

Spiced  Blackberries. — Spiced  blackberries  are  made  very  much 
like  spiced  currants.  To  7  pounds  of  fruit  allow  half  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar and  half  a  pint  of  blackberry  juice,  S}4  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar,  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  an  ounce  of  powdered  allspice.  Let 
this  preparation  cook  steadily  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  until  it  is 
thoroughly  reduced. 

Spiced  Gooseberries. — Use  7  pounds  of  berries  to  1  pint  of  vine- 
gar and  3j^  pounds  of  sugar,  2  ounces  of  stick  cinnamon  and  1  ounce 
of  whole  cloves.  Place  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  slow  fire  and' 
cook  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half. 


'■i^ 


For  summer  luncheons  the  sand- 
wich is  the  best  stand-by.  The- ideal 
sandwich' — ^and  the  ideal  is  as  easily  made 
as  any,  if  the  conviction  once  obtains — ^is 
jP'  very  thin,  its  entire  thickness  when  finished 
not  over  half  an  inch ;  it  is  spread  evenly  with 
butter,  and  its  flavoring  or  filling  is  delicate 
and  dainty,  a  suggestion  rather  than  a  substantial 
reality.  Potted  ham  and  meats  of  all  kinds,  jam, 
grated  swieet  chocolate,  cottage  cheese,  jellies,  marmalades — ^any  of 
these  make  good  fillings,  and  many  more  suggest  themselves  for  the 
trying.  Any  cold  meat  left  over  can  do  sandwich  duty  by  freeing 
from  fat  and  gristle  and  chopping  fine.  Moisten  with  a-^very  little 
vinegar.  ^ 

There  are  certain  absolutely  essential  points  in  the  composition  of 
a  gdod  sandwich,  and  they  are  soon  mastered.  All  meats  t5  be  used 
in  them  should  be 'well  cooked,  tender,  as  juicy  as  possible,  and  cut 
in  very  small,  very  thin  slices,  uSing  as  ntiany  of  these  slices  a^may 
be  necessary  to  cover  the  bread.  The  bread  itself  should  be  home- 
made, if  possible,  not  less  than  two  days  old,  the  slices  cut  thin  and 
even,  and  the  crust  trimmed  off.  It  is  Ho  waste,  as  some  house- 
keepers fed,  since  this  crust,  browned  lightly  in  a  hot  oven  and  rolled 
while  hot,  makes  crumbs  which  cannot  be  excelled  for  dressings, 
puddings,  and,all  uses  to  which  crumbs  may  be  put. 

All  sandwiches  should  be  wrapped  in  a  wet  towel  to  keep  them 
moist  They  can  be  cut  into  all  sorts  of  fancy  shapes,  such  as  hearts, 
Squares,  oblongs,  ovals,  triaijigles,  diamonds  and  stars.  Lettuce  and 
cress  sandwiches  should  not  be  made  until  a  short  time  before  using, 
as  their  crispness  is  gone  if  they  stand  long.  Other  varieties  can  be 
made  in  the  forenoon,  or  immediately  after  dinner,  if  desired  for  sup- 
per, or  in  the  evening. 

In  packing  the  picnic  hamper  remember  that  there  should  be  a 
large  supply  of  sandwiches,  which  are  alw^s  the  piece  de  resistance 
of  an  outdoor  lunch.    One  of  the  nicest  ways  of  serving  a  sandwich 
32fi 


SANDWICHES.  327 

is  to  roll  it.  When  made  up  in  this  way  less  of  the  surface  of  th« 
bread  is  exposed  and  there  is  less  danger  of  the  sandwich  drjriag  on 
the  outside.  Spread  the  slices  of  meat  paste  or  forcemeat  on  a  slice 
of  buttered  bread.  Only  tender,  home-made  bread,  fully  24  hours 
old,  will  roll  properly.  ^  Begin  very  carefully  and  turn  the  bread 
gently,  then  roll  rather  firmly.  Pin  them  up  one  by  one  in  a  piece  of 
napkin,  and  set  them  aside  for  several  hours  under  a  slight  weight, 
that  they  may  retain  their  shape.  All  sandwiches  should  be  carefully 
covered  up  in  napkins  as  soon  as  they  are  made  and  should  be  served 
as  soon  as  possible  to  prevent  their  becoming  dry  on  the  outside. 
But  if  carefully  piled  and  covered  up  they  will  keep  moist  for  several 
hours.  Sandwiches  to  be  taken  to  picnics  may  be  wrapped  in  but- 
tered or  waxed  paper. 

Sandwicb  Bread. — Box  bread,  as  it  is  called  in  some  bakeries, 
and  sandwich  bread,  as  it  is  known  in  others,  is  a  loaf  with  perfectly 
square  "Corners.  It  is  square  in  cross  section  and  about  twice  as  long 
as  it  is  thick.  The  crust  can  be  cut  from  it  with  very  little  waste  and 
the  slices  can  be  cut  into  the  desired  triangular  shape  for  sandwich«i 
without  any  waste  whatever. 

Sandwicb  Dressing. — ^This  does  much  toward  making  a  sand- 
wich delicious  :  Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  with  enough  hot 
water  to  make  smooth;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  very  little  red 
or  white  pepper,  salt,  and  yolk  of  i  egg.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Warm 
before  spreading  upon  the  sandwich. 

Deviled  Ham  Sandwich. — ^The  simplest  form  of  sandwich  is  that 
of  sliced  meat,  seasoned  as  desired.  But  now  that  meat-choppers 
enable  one  to  reduce  a  whole  ham  or  tongue  almost  to  a  paste,  to  be 
seasoned  as  taste  dictates,  a  better  order_  has  established  itself  A 
very  delicious  form,  where  there  is  a  small  amount  of  ham  only,  is  as 
follows :  From  half  to  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  mixed  lean  and 
fat  ham ;  i  miticed  pickle,  a  tablespoonful  of  French  mustard,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Melt  in  a  saucepan  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
when  it  boils  up  add  the  ham,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  i  raw  egg,  and 
stir  together  without  allowing  it  to  cook.  Do  not  use  tUl  cool,  and 
butter  the  bread  with  only  a  glaze  of  butter,  as  that  in  the  ham  will 
be  sufficient.  Tongue  and  corned  beef  can  be  treated  in  the  same 
manner,  and  chicken  also  or  game,  but  for  the  latter  th«  pickle  and 
half  the  mustard  are  to  be  omitted. 


328  SANDWICHES. 

Ham  and  Egg  Sandwich. — Mix  the  yolks  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  1  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard ;  Jo  this  add  1 
cupful  of  finely-chopped  ham  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  chopped  as 
fine  as  possible.  Mix  well  and  spread"  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread.  If  the  crust  of  the  bread  is  hard  or  tough,  it  should  be  cut 
off  before  the  bread  is  spread. 

Chicken  Sandwich. — Chop  cold  chicken  very  fine;  heat  some 
rich  cream  and  mix  with  it;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  spread  be- 
tween sandwiches.  Or,  chop  thfe  chicken,  first  removing  all  the  skin. 
To  each  cupful  of  the  chopped  chicken  add  a  little  salt  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  (measured  after  melting.)  Mix ;  cut  thin 
slices  of  bread  which  is  1  day  old ;  spread  first  with  butter,  thinly, 
then  with  the  chicken ;  put  2  slices  together  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Egg  and  Fish  Sandwiches. — To  make  an  egg  and  fish  sandwich 
pound  the  yolks  of  5  hard-boiled  eggs  and  the  white  of  1  in  a  mortar. 
Add  about  as  much  anchovy  as  you  have  eggs,  and  mix  in  the 
mortar.  Add  to  this  mixture  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  to  every  yolk 
of  egg.  When  it  is  a  smooth  mass  spread  it  on  brown  bread  cut  to 
the  regular  thickness  of  an  Sghth  of  an  inch.  The  Norwegian  an- 
chovies that  come  in  a  keg  are  considered  better  than  those  that 
come  in  a  bottle,  already  boned.  Take  the  little  fishes  out  of  the  keg, 
a  few  at  a  time,  soak  them  in  cold  water  for  2  hours  or  longer,  open 
them  and  remove  the  backbone.  After  cleaning  them  well  lay  them 
in  a  dish  covered  with  sweet  oil  until  needed. 

Eggwiches.— Cut  the  top  nearly  off  of  rolls  that  are  a  little  stale, 
remove  all  the  crumbs  and  soft  part  possible,  and  fill  with  a  stuffing 
of  chicken  (veal,  tongue,  or  any  meat  desired),  finely  chopped,' with 
celery  salt,  a  little  parsley,  pepper,  plenty  of  butter,  or  olive  oil,  and 
to  each  roll  allow  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  which  should  be 
thoroughly  mashed  with  the  other  ingredients.  Fill  the  rolls,  shut 
the  top,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  get  hot. 

Tongue  Sandwich. — Chop  cold  boiled  tongue,  and  mix  with  any 
nice  salad  dressing  to  spread  between  sandwiches. 

Breakfast  Sandwich.— Use  stale  bread.  Spread  each  shce  with 
chopped  meat ;  cover  with  another  slice  and  press  together.  Cut 
^ach  sandwich  in  halves  and  place  them  on  a  plate.  Have  ready  a 
pint  of  milk,  salted  and  mixed  with  1  beaten  egg.  Pour  this  over 
the  sandwiches  and  let  stand  a  few  momenta    Put  a  heaping  tea- 


SANDWICHES.  329 

spoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan  and  when  it  begins  to  brown 
place  the  sandwiches  carefully  upon  it.  When  nicely  browned  on 
one  side  add  a  little  more  butter,  turn,  and  brown  the  other  side. 

Game  Sandwich. — Make  a  rich,  smooth  gravy  with  the  game 
stock,  or  plain  stock.  Spread  the  bread  with  this,  and  lay  on  it  thin 
slices  of  partridge,  phea^nt,  etc.,  as  you  choose.  Press  the  slices  to-\ 
gether,  trim,  and  cut  in  any  neat  shape.  Sometimes  thin  circles  of/ 
nicely  fried  bread  are  used  instead  of  cold  bread. 

Hot  Boast  Beef  Sandwich. — Cat  bread  moderately  thin  and 
butter  lightly.  Lay  a  generous  slice  of  hot  roast  beef  between  two 
slices  of  bread,  and  cover  liberally  with  a  rich,  hot,  brown  beef  gravy. 

Cream  of  Oyster  Sandwich. — Chop  1  quart  of  raw  oysters  very 
fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg ;  add  ^  cup  melted 
butter,  the  same  of  rich  cream,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten,  and  8,powdered 
crackers.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler  until  a  smooth  paste ;  set  away 
until  very  cold ;  then  cut  and  lay  between  buttered  slices  of  bread. 

Hot  Oyster  Sandwich. — Split  small,  fresh  crackers,  butter  the 
inside ;  lay  on  each  bottom  half  of  1  large  or  2  small  oysters ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  small  pieces  of  butter ;  cover  with  upper 
half;  place  in  dripping  pan  and  bake  from  15  to  20  minutes.  The 
cracker  must  be  thoroughly  heated  through,  but  not  burned  in  the 
least.     Serve  on  hot  platter.     Nice  to  serve  for  supper  with  pickles. 

Oyster  Sandwich. — It  is  very  dainty  and  appetizing,  and  may  be 
served  either  hot  or  cold.  Take  thin  slices  of  sweet,  home-made  rye 
br^ad,  butter  them,  lay  on  hot,  fried  oysters,  season,  using  a  dash  of 
made  mustard  if  liked,  and  lay  on  the  second  slice  of  bread.  If  they 
are  to  be  served  cold,  wrap  each  Sandwich  in  buttered  paper. 

Sardine  Sandwich. — Sardine  sandwiches  may  be  made  by  simply 
splitting  the  fish,  taking  out  the  bone,  and  squeezing  a  little  lemon 
juice  over  them.  Add  a  leaf  of  lettuce  to  each  sandwich,  allowing 
three  halves  of  sardine  to  a  slice,  and  cutting  them  in  two.  Cut  the 
bread  thin  and  butter  lightly.     Press  the  slices  together. 

Hot  Sardine  Sandwich. — .An  excellent  relish  ifor  the  Sunday 
night  tea  table.  Take  4  boneless  sardines,  rub  them  smooth  with  an 
ounce  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  dust  of 
cayenne  pepper;  heat  the, mixture  in  a  chafing  dish  and  spread  on 
hot  buttered  toast.  A  little  grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled  over  top 
before  serving.  Do  not  put  two  pieces  of  bread  together ;  leave  open. 


Toast  should  be  made  of  stale 
bread,  or,  at  least,  of  bread  that  has  been 
baked  a  day.  Baker's  bread  is  usually  better 
for  toast  than  the  domestic  article.  Cut  smoothly 
in  slices,  not  more  than  half  an  inch  thick.  If  the 
crust  is  baked  very  hard,  trim  the  edges.  Brown  very  evenly. 
If  it  happens  to  burn,  scrape  off  very  carefully.  Cold  biscuit 
cut  in  halves,'^under  crust  cut  off,  then  browned  evenly  on  both  sides, 
makes  §ood  toast.  Either  brown  or  white  bread  makes  good  toast,  but 
Graham  bread  is  to  be  preferred.  Toasted  bread  done  in  the  ordinary 
fashion,  that  is,  by  putting  a  slice  of  bread  on  a  fork,  holding  it  over 
the  fire  until  brown  on  one  side,  then  turning  to  brown  the  other  side, 
will  be  found,  upon  breaking  open  a  slice,  to  have  the  surfaces 
browned,  but  the  inside  is  converted  into  the  same  condition  as  that 
of  new  bread.  Toast  to  be  most  easily  digested  should  never  be 
buttered.  It  covers  up  the  starch  and  saturates  the  gluten.  This  is 
to  be  remembered  in  serving  it  to  invalids.  A  good  way  to  toast 
bread,  and  also  to  avoid  getting  heated  and  scorched  one's  self,  is  to 
take  a  stale  loaf  of  bread,  cut  into  very  thin  slices,  almost  like  wafers, 
place  on  large  baking  sheets  and  dry  until  quite  crisp  in  a  cool  oven. 
Serve  piled  on  a  plate  at  dinrter  or  tea.  Scraps  of  loaves  and  rolls 
may  be  used  in  this  way,  and  be  greatly  appreciated  if  crisp  and  cut  very 
thin.  Thin  slices  of  toast  are  now  it  fashionable  dinners  taking  the 
place  of  the  usual  dinner  roll.  This  has  created  a  place  for  individual 
silver  racks  each  to  hold  two  slices.  Porcelain  racks  are  also  some- 
times used. 

Cream  Toast. — Cut  slices  from  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  toast  brown ; 
put  a  pint  of  cream  in  a  quart  cup  and  set  on  the  fire  to  heat,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  pour  over  the  toast,  and 
serve  hot 

Cream  Toast  with  Poacbed  "Egga. — Prepare  a  toast  as  above^ 
lay  each  slice  neatly  in  a  saucer  before  adding  the  cream  dressing, 
end  then  finish  with  a  delicately  poached  egg  laid  on  each  slice. 


TOASTS. 


831 


Baked  Milk  Toast. — Pare  the  crust  from  slices  of  stale  bread 
and  toast  quickly ;  dip  in  boiling  salted  water  and  lay  in  a  deep  disk 
that  will  bear 
the  fire  without 
injury.  When 
all  are  in  pour 
upon  the  toast 
1  quart  of  hot 
milk  (or  half 
cream)  in  which 
has  been  dis- 
solved a  heap- 
ing tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter 
andateaspoon- 
fulofsalt.    Set 

the  dish    in  a  

dripping  pan  of  hot  water,  and  this  in  the  oven.  Bake  covered  for 
half  an  hour,  then  let  the  top  layer  brown  very  slightly.  Should  the 
milk  be  all  absorbed  before  time  is  up,  add  a  little  more,,  boiling  hot. 
Thus  prepared  it  has  a  rich,  creamy  flavor  "  dip  toast "  never  acquires. 

Scotch  Toast. — Butter  slices  of  not  too  stale  bread,  place  in  a  hot 
oven  for  5  minutes ;  serve. 

Datcb  Toast.— Dutch  toast  is  a  simple  dish  for  using  up  scraps 
of  bread.  Crumble  the  bread 
and  place  in  a  frying  pan  with 
a  slice  of  butter.  Add  salt, 
pepper  and  sage  if  liked.  It 
should  be  seasoned  quite  well. 
Add  a  small  quantity  of  boil-  Bread  Toaster. 

ing  water,  cover  closely,  so  the  steam  will  soften  the  bread,  stir  sev- 
eral times  and  serve  hot. 

French  Toast. — ^To  1  pint  of  milk  add  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Dip  into  this  mixture  12  slices  of  bread.  Have  ready 
a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  hot  lard  or  beef  suet  in  a  skillet.  Fry  the, 
bread  on  both  sides  a  delicate  brown.  This  makes  a  nice  breakfast 
dish.  Some,  cooks  roll  in  sugar  before  serving.  Prepared  in  this 
feshion,  it  is  nice  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 


332  TOASTS. 

Parisian  Toast. — Beat  well  2  eggs,  add  a  little  salt  and  1  cup  of 
milk,  pour  over  6  slices  of  bread  and  hrowri  quickly  on  hot  buttered 
griddle ;  place  on  platter  aiid  cover  with  chopped  bits  of  meat  or  cold 
fish  made  very  hot  in  a  little  butter  and  water. 

Snowflake  Toast. — ^Take  1  quart  of  milk,  one-half  cup  cream  and 
a  little  salt.  Mix  a  tablespobnful  of  flour  with  a  little  of  the  milk, 
and  add  when  the  milk  is  boiling  hot  Let  it  cook  imtil  the  flour 
has  no  raw  taste.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  2  eggs  thoroughly 
beaten,  and  after  the  milk  and  cream  are  well  cooked,  stir  in  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  lightly  and  allow  it  to  remain  over  the  fire  long 
enough  for  the  whites  to  coagulate — about  half  a  minute  is  lohg 
enough.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  about  12  slices  of  bread  well 
toasted.  Dip  the  slices  in  hot  milk,  take  out  quickly  and  pack  to* 
getherfor  about  3  minutes,  then  pour  this  snowflake  mixture  over 
them. 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Toast.^Bone  and  skin  the  remains  of  cold 
fowls,  roasted  or  boiled.  Coyer  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Boil  the 
bones  and  skin  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water  until  reduced 
half.  Strain  this  gravy  and  let  cool.  Skim  off  the  fat  and  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  one-half  cupful  cream  and  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 
rubbed  smooth  with  1  tablespoonful  flour.  Stir  this  until  it  boils.. 
Then  add,  the  finely-minced  fowl,  together  with  3  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Shake  over  the  fire  until 
thoroughly  hot.  Dish  over  hot  toast.  Some  prefer  to  dip  the  slices 
of  toast  in  hot,  salted  water  before  adding  the  meat. 

Mock  Cream  Toast. — Melt  2  ounces  of  butter  and  rub  in  1 
large  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Pour  Ij^  pints  of  hot  milk  over  the 
butter  and  flour.  Return  to  the  stove.  Beat  2  eggs  light  and  turn 
the  hot  milk  over  the  eggs  and  beat  a  few  minutes ;  strain  the  cream 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve.  Dip  the  toast  and  send  hot  to  the  table  in 
a  gravy-bowl,  the  cream  not  taken  up  by  the  toast. 

Veal  Toast. — ^Veal  toast  may  be  made  in  precisely  the  same  man- 
ner as  chicken  and  turkey  toast. 


CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY 


Iljj^^^^^^^y jj'^*'  Five  years  ago  the  average  individual 
-^  <^^SlS^^^^^  hardly  knew  what  a  chafing  dish  was,  but 
now  in  many  a  small  apartment  are  known  full 
well  the  joys  of  savory  suppers  served  informally 
and  gayly  from  the  bright  and '  cheerful  nickel 
70[fWI^^^^^  chafer  that  may  be  bought  anywhere  at  small  ex- 
V'^'  pense,  and  which  has  become  in  more  ways  than 

one  a  precious  boon  to  the  light  and  economical  housekeeper. 

Bachelors,  girls  living  in  small  rooms,  and  all  who  wish  to  do 
light  housekeeping  should  have  one  chafing  dish  and  an  alcohol  lamp 
with  a  small  tea-kettle.  Fill  the  lamp  with  alcohol  and  then  light  it, 
and  then  put  the  tea-kettle  on  first  with  water.  Then  fill  the  lamp 
for  the  chafing  dish,  light  it,  and  fill  the  lower  pan  half  full  with 
water.  Place  the  top  pan  on  the  lower  one  and  the  chafing  dish  is 
ready  for  use. 

The  chafing  dish  is  used  at  informal  meals,  and,  so  far  as  is  pos- 
sible, the  actual  cooking  should  be  done  after  guests  are  seated  at  the 
table,  the  short  delay  in  the  preparation  of  the  dish  being  utilized  for 
conversation.  All  ingredients  should  be  at  one  side  of  the  dish  on  a 
small  tray  in  readiness  for  immediate  use — condiments,  flour,  etc., 
measured,  meat  diced  and  eggs  beaten. '  Often  two  or  more  ingredi- 
ents can  be  placed  in  the  same  receptacle,  and  if  the  bowls  and  dishes 
used  are  proportioned  to  the  amount  of  materials  they  will  not  be 
dee'*>ed  out  of  place.  They  should,  of  course,  be  removed  as  soon 
as  emptied. 

Butter  may  be  made  into  balls,  each  ball  representing  an  ounce. 
Arrange  these  in  a  pretty  dish  on  the  right.  If  cream  is  to  be  used, 
measure  and  put  it  in  a  little  pitcher  on  the  left.  Bottles  containing 
sauces  and  catsups  should  also  be  placed  on  the  left,  as  well  as  large 
materials,  such  as  lobster,  etc.  This  saves  much  time  and  confusion. 
See  that  the  lamp  is  filled  and  that  matches  are  at  hand  before  being 
seated.  When  a  recipe  calls  for  butter  and  flour  rub  them  together 
and  put  them  in  the  dish  before  serving-time.  If  butter  is  to  be 
browned  put  it  in  the  dish  first,  then  have  the  flour  in  a  pretty  bowl. 


834 


CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY. 


to  be  added  later.  Use  for  stirring  a  long-handled,  polished  wooden 
spdon.  This  will  enable  you  to  work  easily  and  quietly,  if  you  use 
a  light  metal  dish  it  becomes  at  times  needful  to  use  the  hot  water 
pan ;  but  with  a  heavy  dish  this  is  not  required. 

Though  a  desirable  possession  at  all  times,  the  chafing  dish  is 
particularly  convenient  during  the  "  dog  days,"  when  bending  over 
the  kitchen  range  becomes  insufferable ;  and  to  the  summer  hostess, 
especially,  this  admirable  substitute  is  invaluable. 

The  number  of  viands  that  may  be  prepared  on  the  chafing-dish 

are  numerous 
and  inviting  — 
and  their  num- 
ber is  constantly 
increasing.  Del- 
icate and  dainty 
concoctions 
have  so  far  beea 
the  chief  prod* 
ucts  of  the  chaf- 
ing dish,  but  an 
attempt  is  being 
made  to  cook 
more  substantial 


Agate  Cha&ag  Dish  Outfit. 


articles,  so  that  they  may  be  a  boon  also  to  the  tired  housewife  whose 
family  requires  heartier  foods. 

Welsh  Barebit. — ^A  good  dinner  for  the  beginner  to  commence 
on  is  Welsh  rarebit,  which  can  be  made  exactly  as  well  at  home  as  in 
the  chop-houses  of  reputation.  It  is  better  that  the  toast  should  be 
made  below  stairs,  and  timed  so  that  when  the  rarebit  is  completed 
the  toast  will  arrive,  perfectly  browned,  hot  and  well  buttered.  But 
when  making  rarebit  at  night  after  fires  are  fixed,  it  becomes  neces- 
sary to  make  toast  also  over  the  chafing  dish.  This  should  be  done 
first :  Have  ready  a  hot  platter  and  dish  of  butter.  Place  over  the 
spirit  light  first  a  round  asbestos  mat,  trim  the  bread  and  place  it  on 
the  mat ;  toast  carefully,  butter,  and  place  it  on  the  heated  platter. 
Take  cheese  of  domestic  make  and  cut  in  tiny  pieces.  If  the  cheese 
is  dry,  a  lump  of  butter,-  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  should  be  put  in 
first.    Put  in  enough  cheese  to  nearly  fill  the  dish,  with  a  sprinkling 


CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY.  335 

of  salt  and  pepper,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  melt  stir  and  mix  it  up 
constantly  witii  two  silver  spoons. 

When  it  assumes  the  conditions  of  a  paste,  begin  to  pour  in  Bass 
ale,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time,  until  about  a  half  bottle  is  used.  Have 
a  well-beaten  egg  ready,  and  when  the  cheese^  is  like  cream  pour  in 
the  egg ;  stir  it  through  evenly  and  put  out  the  alcohol  lamp  before 
the  egg  can  cook  into  lumps.  Have  fresh-made  toast  ready  on  hot 
plates  and  pour  2  or  3  spoonfuls  of  the  melted  cheese  over  each  slice. 
A  pleasant  addition,  smd  a  digester,  as  well,  is  a  sprinkling  of  paprika, 
or  Hungarian  pepper,  over  each  rarebit. 

The  secret  of  success  in  most  chafing  dish  concoctions  is  the  con- 
stant stirring  with  two  spoons,  which  prevents  the  mixture  from  grow- 
ing lumpy.  Some  cooks  use  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  or  tomato  catsup.    A  saltspoon  of  salt  is  also  needed. 

Escalloped  Oysters. — Take  a  pint  of  large  oysters,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  a  gill  of  cream72  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  dust  and 
some  pepper  and  salt.  Put  the  cream  and  butter  into  the  chafing 
dish.  Drain  the  oysters  and  lay  in  layers  sprinkled  well  with  cracker 
dust,  then  another  layer  of  oysters  with  added  cracker,  and  a  little 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.     Cook  10  minutes  covered. 

-Pan  Oysters. — Drain  1  quart  of  select  oysters  in  a  colander  for 
several  hours  in  a  cool  place.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  the 
chafing  dish,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  As  soon  as  the  but- 
ter begins  to  creanl  put  in  the  oysters ;  stir  them  thoroughly,  cover 
them  and  let  them  steam  until  well  puffed  up.    Serve  on  toast. 

Pan  Toast  in  Gbafing  Dish. — Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and, 
as  it  creams,  add  a  dozen  large  oysters,  a  half  pint  oyster  liquor,  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  about  10  minutes.  Put  six  of  the  oys- 
ters on  a  thin  slice  of  toast  on  a  hot  plate,  with  sufficient  liquid  to 
moisten  the  toast,  and  serve. 

Creamed  Oysters  with  Celery.— One  tablespoon  butter,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  1  cup  cream,  1  pint  large  oysters,  1  small  bunch  celery 
cut  fine.  Melt,  but  do  not  brown  the  butter.  Add  flour  and  stir 
until  smooth.  Pour  in  cream  and  stir  until  smooth ;  add  salt  and 
pepper,  and,  if  too  thick,  a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor.  Put  in  the 
oysters  and  let  them  cook  until  the  edges  are  thoreughly  curled. 
About  2  minutes  before  they  are  done  add  the  celery.  Serve  on 
toast 


336  CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY. 

Creme  Oysters. — For  a  little  supper  dish  put  in  the  chafing  dish 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one-half  pint  of  cream,  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a  sprinkling  of  nutmeg  and  2  bay  leaves. 
When  heated,  grate  up  half  a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  and  add  them, 
"with  25  oysters,  blanched  and  drained.     Cook  5  minutes  and  serve  hot! 

Creamed  Oysters. — Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  upper  dish 
(setting  in  water  pan),  add  salt  ahd  pepper  and  I  pint  washed  and 
drained  oysters.  Cook  a  few  minutes  till  edges  curl,  then  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  mixed  with  one-half  cup  of  cream. 
Watch,  and  remove  as  soon  as  creamy,  which  will  be  in  2  or  3  min- 
utes. Serve  on  crisp  toast.  Clams,  with  head  and  tough  parts  re- 
moved, the  hard  parts  chopped  and  the  black  spots  pinched  out,  are 
very  nice  served  in  this  way.  ^ 

Oyster  Toast.— The  oyster  toast  Tor  lunch  can  he  made  with  the 
'  chafing  dish.  The  oysters  may  be  minced  and  mixed  with  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  a  gill  of  cream  to  every  dozen  oysters,  and  heated  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  they  may  be  left  whole  and  heated  in  a 
sauce  made  from  the  cream  and  eggs.  The  toast  can  be  made  in  the 
kitchen,  and  the  mush  left  from  breakfast  should  be  sliced  and  fried 
on  a  gas  or  oil  stove  to  prevent  the  irons  from  becoming  soiled. 

Creamed  Lobster.'— Put  1  small  tablespoonful  butter  in  chafing 
dish ;  when  it  melts  and  bubbles  add  heaping  .teaspoon  of  flour ;  stir 
until  melted ;  add  one-half  pint  of  cream  (or  milk),  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  and  add  1  can  of  lobster  and  2  eggs  well  beaten ;  season  to  taste 
and  boil  at  least  1  minute.     Serve  immediately. 

liobster  au  Naturel. — ^Take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and,  after  beat- 
ing them  well,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  beat  again  until 
very  smooth.  Boil  a  lobster,  and  when  cold  stir  the  meat,  finely 
chopped,  into»the  above  mixture.  Let  it  simmer  very  slowly,  but  it 
must  not  boil.     Serve  on  a  well-heated  dish.  '^ 

Cream  of  Clams. — Begin  with  the  usual  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  when  the  butter  is  melted. 
When  blended  well  stir  in  the  chopped  meat  of  25  clams  and  half  a 
pint  of  clam  j  nice.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  and  let  simmer  for 
10  minutes.  Then  add  a  gill  of  milk,  if  cream  is  not  forthcoming, 
and  serve  as  soon  as  the  general  bubble  has  come. 

Clams  a  la  Maryland. — To  cook  clams  a  la  Maryland  remove 
the  bodies  from  20  soft  clams.    Place  the  bodies,  with  1  tablespoon- 


CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY.  337 

ful  of  butter,  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  fine  cut  truffles,  2 
tablespopnfuls  of  sherry  wine,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
and  cook  8  minutes.  Be  careful  not  to  stir  them.  Mix  one-half  a 
cupful  of  cream  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  it  to  the  clamS,  let  it 
remain  a  few  minutes  to  heat,  but  not  boil,  and  then  serve. 

Hashed  Little-neck  Clams. — Melt  a  pat  of  butter  into  the  chafing 
dish,  then  put  in  3  dozen  little-neck  clams,  hashed  fine,  and  their 
juice.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  shives  and  2  of  parsley.  Cook 
over  open  fire  until  it  boils  twice,  cover  on,  thicken  with  bread  crumbs, 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry.     Season  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs. — Put  4  pats  of  butter  into  the  chafing  dish  and 
let  it  become  very  hot ;  then  put  in  4  medium-sized  soft-shell  crabs, 
first  prepared  by  removing  the  lungs  and  washing  thoroughly ;  add  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Cook  about  10  minutes,  being  careful 
not  to  burn.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  Serve  on  toast  or  plain. 

Spanish  Cream  Pudding. — Take  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine, 
1  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  i  J^  cups  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Soak  the  gelatine  1  hour  in  milk.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together,  add  to  the  milk  and  pour 
into  the  chafiTig  dish.  Cook  20  minutes,  take  off  and  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  after  cooling  a  little,  add  the  vanilla 
and  salt,  and  beat  5  miputes.     Four  into  a  mould  and  set  on  the  ice. 

Chocolate  Cream. — A  very  rich  and  delicious  preparation  of 
chocolate  to  serve  occasionally  is  a  cream  made  in  the  chafing  dish. 
To  make  it  take  2  squares  of  a  good  brand  of  chocolate,  break  them 
up,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  cover  and  cook  10  minutes.  Then  add  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  cream,  put  the  hot-water  pan  under  the  dishj, 
and  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  In  adding"  the  yolks  of 
eggs  to  sauces,  creams,  etc.,  it  is  best  either  to  remove  the  mixture 
from  the  fire  or  to  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  liquid  to  the 
eggs  (stirring  as  you  do  so)  before  adding  it  to  the  bulk  of  the  mix- 
ture. You  will  thus  prevent  curdling.  Mix  the  yolks  well  with  the 
rest  of  the  ingredients,  and  cook  until  they  thicken  the  liquid 
slightly.  Then  add  the  frothed  whites,  a  salt-spoqnful  of  salt,  and, 
just  before  serving,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Serve  hot,  in  small  cups, 
either:  with  or  without  whipped  cream.  With  it  serve  crisp,  unsweet- 
'wed  crackers,  bread  sticks,  or  finger-rolls. 

COOK— 22 


An  Indian  or  flour  dumpling  that  is  to 
be  tied  in  a  cloth  requires  plenty  of  room  for 
the  contents  to  swell.^  Never  let  the  water 
stop  boiling  while  the  dumplings  are  in  the  kettler 
Be  sure  they  are  covered  with  Water  completely. 
Dip  the  bag,  or  cloth,  in  cold 'water  for  an  instant  and  the  dumpling 
will  come  out  easily.  Steaming  is  easier,  and  in  eveiy  way  preferable 
to  boiling  a  pudding  or  dumpling.  Some  dumplings  are  to  be  baked 
also.  Biscuit  crusts,  pastry  or  suet  crusts  may  be  made. 
.  Suet  Dumplings. — One  pint  of  fine  bread  crumb?,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  l}i  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  (level)  of  salt,  one-half  cupful  of  flour. 
Wet  it  with  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Make  into 
balls  with  floured  hands.  Tie  up  in  separate  cloths  that  have  teen 
wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  floured  inside.  Leave  room  to  swell. 
Serve  hot,  with  hot  pudding  sauce,  or  with  hard  sauce  or  butter  and 
syrup. 

Plain  Dumplings.— Take  a  pan  of  nice  light  biscuit  jiist  ready 
for  the  oven,  and  when  the  potatoes  are  ready  to  boil  for  dinner  put 
the  biscuit  in  the' steamer  over  the  kettle.  Cook  one-half  hour  or 
until  the  potatoes  are  done.  Serve  hot  with  sweetened  cream  sea- 
soned with  nutmeg.  Crushed  strawberries  or  any  kind  of  stewed 
fruit  is  nice  to  serve  with  them.    Tear  open  with  a  fork. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. — Peel,  core  and  quarter  any  nice  kind 
of  apple ;  make  a  light,  flaky  pastry  and  roll  thin.  Cut  it  in  sections 
as  large  as  a  saucer.  Lay  2  or  3  quarters  of  the  mellow  apple  on  the 
pastry  and  sprinkle  it  with  sugar.  Catch  up  all  the  corners  of  the 
pastry  and  press  firmly  together  over  the  apple.  Lay  them  in  a  bowl 
or  pan,  with  the  smooth  side  up,  and  put  half  a  teaspoonful  of  butter 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  with  a  little  nutmeg  on  top  of  each.  Pour 
boiling  water  an  inch  deep  around  them  and  bake  in  the  stove  till  the 
dumplings  are  nicely  browned.    Serve  hot  with  sweetened  cream  for 

838 


DUMPLINGS,  SHORT  CAKES,  ETC.  839 

sauce,  or^  in  lieu  of  cream,  the  water  in  which  they  were  steamed 
makes  a  well-seasoned  sauce. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings. — Make  a  rich  biscuit,  dough.  Roll 
out  on  the  moulding  board  almost  as  thin  as  pie  crust.  Cut  into 
squares,  or  rounds,  large  enough  to  cover  an  apple.  Pare"  and  core 
the  apples  without  dividing  them,^nd  fill  with  sugar  and  a  pinch  of 
cinnamon.  Chop  the  suet  very  finely,  rub  it  into  the  flour,  and  mix 
into  a  paste  with  the  water ;  roll  it  out  to  a  thin  paste,  divide  in 
pieces,  roll  the  apples  in  it,  taking  care  to  join  the  paste  neatly ;  form 
into  balls,  tie  in  pieces  of  floured  cloth  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Serve  with  a  sweet,  hot  sauce.  Another  Sauce :  One  and  a 
half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  2  spoonfuls  of  flour. 
Mix  Hour  and  sugar  thoroughly,  then  work  in  the  butter  and  pour 
on  2  teacupfuls  of  boiling  water. 

Peacb  Dumplings. — ^These  dumplings  may  be  made  of  either 
fresh  or  canned  peaches,  but  are  better  of  the  fresh.  Make  a  rich 
biscuit  crust,  cut  in  sqtiares  large  enough  to  fold  over  the  peach,  and 
steam  in  a  steamer  for  half  an  hour,  being  careful  not  to  uncover 
them  during  that  time.  Serve  with  hard  sauce.  If  the  canned 
peaches  are  used,  two  of  the  halves  should  be  p_ut  in  each  piece  of 
crust,  and  the-syrup  will  maloe  a  delicious  sauce  by  adding  1  cup  of 
sugar,  and  boiling  10  minutes,  then  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
and  a  heaping  1  of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water  and  boiled 
up  once.    A  dash  of  nutmeg  is  an  improvement. 

Plum  Dumplings. — These  are  very  attractively  made  by  sifting  3 
cupfuls  of  flour,  with  which  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  have 
been  mingled,  slicing  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  making 
into  a  soft  dough  with  water.  Stir  in  a  cupful  of  plums,  using  either 
stewed  fresh  fruit  or  the  canned  article,  according  to  the  season.  Par- 
tially fill  cups  with  the  batter,  set  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the 
oven  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Invert  the  dumplings  on  dessert 
plates  and  serve  warm  with  liquid  sauce. 

Strawberry  Dumplings. — Into  a  pint  of  sifted  flour  rub  2 
rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  egg 
well  beaten,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  sufficient 
milk  to  moisten.  Mix  quickly  and  roll  out  into  a  thin  sheet,  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  out  with  a  round  biscuit  cutter,  place 
4  berries  in  the  centre  of  each,  fold  the  edges  over  and  steam  about 


340  DUMPLINGS,  SHORT  CAKES,  ETC. 

25  minutes.    Serve  with  strawberry  sauce,  or  any  other  good  hard 
sauce. 

Dough  Dumplings. — Risen  bread  dough  made  into  balls  the  size 
of  apples  and  boiled  a  long  time  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  are  nice 
eaten  hot  with  molasses.     A  little  shortening  may  be  used. 

Berry  Dumplings. — Most  berries  make  good  dumplings,  among 
which  are  gooseberries,  whortleberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  etc. 
Roll  out  biscuit  dough,  cut  in-  squsires,  put  a  spoonful  of  berries  on, 
bring  corners  together,  place  on  a  buttered  tin.  Melt  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  a  heaping  spoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  hot 
water..  Dip  over  the  squares.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake.  See 
"  Strawberry  Dumplings." 

Blee  Apple  Dumplings. — Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  until  about  done — 
about  30  minutes-^then  drain.  Take  a  square  of  cheesecloth,  put 
the  rice,  the  size  of  a  saucer,  in  the  centre  of  the  cloth,  put  the  apple 
in  the  cefitre  of  this,  then  fold  up  the  corners  of  the  cloth  so  as  to 
fold  the  rice  over  the  whole  evehly.  Tie  tightly  and  throw  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  boil  rapidly  for  20  minutes,  untie,  and  they 
are  ready  to  serve.     Serve  with  them  any  preferred  sauce. 

Bice  DumpUngd. — Take  a  cupful  ^of  boiled  rice,  mash  it  fine, 
add  to  it  1  tablespoonful  of  Ijutter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  yolk 
of  an  egg.  Moisten  with  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of  cream ;  flour  the 
hands  and  make  into  balls ;  tie  in  floured  cloths.  Steam  or  boil  40 
minutes.     Serve  with  custard  sauce  or  some  preferred  pudding  sauce. 

Preserve  Dumplings. — Make  same  as  strawberry  or  other  berry 
dumplings,  and  put  in  a  spoonful  of  rich  preserves,  any  kind.  Tie  in 
cloths  and  boil  30  minutes.   Send  hot  to  table ;  eat  with  sweet  cream. 

Liemon  Dumplings. — One  pint  of  grated  -bread  crumbs,  one-half 
cupful  chopped  suet,  one-half  cupful  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  1  level 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon.  Moisten 
all  with  the  whites  and  yolks  of  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  the  juice  of  1 
lemon.  Stir  and  put  the  mixture  in  small,  well-buttered  balls.  Tie  over 
each  a  floured  cloth  and  boil  or  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Turn  out,  and  serve  with  any  preferred  sauce.    Wine  sauce  is  nice. 

Puff  BaUs.— A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  stirred  with  3 
weil-beaten  eggs,  one-half  cupful  sour  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt.  StiC 
well  and  make  into  a  stiff  batter  with  flour.    Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 


DUMPLINGS,  SHORT  CAKES,  ETC.  341 

boiling  water.  Cook  until  the  puffs  rise  to  the  surface.  Dish  hot 
with  melted  butter  and  serve  for  a  side  dish,  or  else  with  a  sweet 
sauce  for  dessert. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake. — Put  1  quart  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sift  twice. 
Rub  into  this  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  then  add  sufficient  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough,  about  1 JE^  cups.  Take  this  out  on  the  board 
and  roll  it  out  in  a  sheet  about  1  inch  thick.  With  a  knife  make  it 
perfectly  square,  and  put  in  a  square,  greased  pan  and  bake,  having 
the  centre  a  little  thinner  than  the  edges.  Have  ready  3  boxes  of 
berries,  stemmed  and  mashed.  Take  a  potato-mashe^^  and  mash  in 
the  bowl,  and  then  stir  in  a  cup  of  sugar.  After  the  cake  has  baked 
thoroughly,  about  20  minutes,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  with  a  knife 
strip  the  edges  and  pull  apart.  Put  one  portion  in  a  large  platter  and 
butter  it  thickly.  Then  cover  up  with  strawberries.  Put  on  the 
crust,  cover  it  with  strawberries,  and  serve  at  once  with  a  good-sized 
pitcher  of  cold  milk  or  cream.  Instead  of  tearing  the  short  cake 
apartj  divide  the  dough  into  2  or  3  parts,  place  the  layers  in  the  same 
tin,  spreading  meltgd  butter  between  them.  When  baked,  the  layers 
will  separate  easily,  and  then  proceed  with  the  short  cake  as  above. 
It  may  also  be  served  cold.  , 

Cream  Strawberry  Short  tlake. — One  pint  of  sour  cream,  1  tea 
spoonful  soda,  pinch  of  salt.  Flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out 
1^  inches  thick,  bake,  tear  apart,  and  butter,  or  else  bake  in  layers, 
one  above  the  other,  in  the  same  pan,  buttering  between  each  one. 
Prepare  with  berries  as  above.  Serve  with  whipped  or  unwhipped 
cream.  Whipped  cream  should  always  be  preferred,  since  the  un- 
whipped penetrates  into  the  short  cake,  rendering  it  sodden  and  un-. 
wholesome. 

Quick  Strawberry  Short  Cake. — Three  heaping  cups  of  flour,  2 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar  and  1  teaspoon  of  saleratus  sifted  with 
flour,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter  worked  into  the  flour ;  then  add  1  well-beaten  egg  and  2  cups 
of  milk  y  do  not  roll  and  knead  on  board,  but  put  in  biscuit  pans 
soft,  spread  evenly  with  a  great  spoon ;  this  rficipe  makes  2  short 
cakes ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes  ;  when  done  split  and  spread 
on  butter ;  take  2  boxes  of  strawberries,  hull  and  crush  slightly  in  a 
d?ep  dish,  then  add  1^  cups  of  sugar  and  spread  between  the  tw» 


842  DUMPLINGS,  SHORT  CAKES,  ETC. 

layers ;  spread  a  little  butter  over  the  top  of  short  cake,  or  whipped 
cream  over  the  top  is  very  nice. 

Peach  Short  Cake. — Peach  short  cake  is  considered  by  many 
finer  than  istrawberry.  Peal  and  slice  one  dozen  mellow  pesshes. 
Put  the  fruit  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and  let  stand 
half  an  hour.  Make  an  ordinary  short  cake,  roll  the  dough  out  to 
an  inch  in  thickness  and  the  size  of  jelly-cake  tins.  Place  on  biittered 
tins  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  When  the 
cakes  are  baked,  with  a  sharp  knife  split  around  the  edge  and  break 
apart.  Butter  the  lower  piece  and  spread  thick  with  sliced  peaches. 
Place  the  other  cake  on  top  of  the  peaches  and  cover  with  the  re* 
maining  fruit.    Serve  hot  with  cream. 

Peach  Cobbler. — Fill  a  shallow  pudding  dish  with  peaches  which 
have  been  pared  and  cut  in  half  Remove  seeds,  sprinkle  well  with 
sugar  and  flour.  ~  Fill  about  half  full  of  water,  cover  with  rich  pie 
crust,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  1  hour.     To  be  eaten  with  cream  sauce. 

Apple  Short  Cake.-^Mix  a  stiff  batter  as  for  biscuit.  Put  in  a 
deep  pie-tin  with  a  spoon ;  bake  separate,  butter  well  and  fill  with  a 
thick  layer  of  very  nice  tart  apple  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  re- 
place the  top,  dusting  over  with  sugar,  and  serve  plain,  "with  sweet- 
ened cream  or  milk.  Other  fruit  may  be  served  in  the  same  way. 
Powdered  sugar  is  best. 

Currant  Short  Cake. — Make  crust  same  as  for  strawberries,  mash 
currants,  sweeten  plentifully,  and  you  will  hardly  miss  the  straw- 
berries. ,  y . 

Liemon  Short  Cake. — Make  a  rich  short  cake.  Bake  in  jelly- 
cake  tins ;  let  cool  and  spread  with  the  lemon  filling  for  letnon  layer 
cake.     Dust  sugar  over  the  top  and  serve. 

Jelly  Short  Cake. — Can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  substituting 
jelly  for  lemon  butter. 

Pineapple  Short  Cake. — ^Take  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  1  cupful 
of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  2  cupfuls  of  flour  and  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  2  layers  and  spread  chopped  pineapple 
between  the  layer's  after  the  cake  is  cold.  This  recipe  is  very  popu- 
lar down  where  the  pines  grow,  but  any  recipe  for  strawberry  short 
cake  will  do  as  well  by  substituting  the  pine  for  the  berries. 

Rhubarb  Short  Cake. — Make  a  rich  biscuit  crust.  When  baked, 
split ;  butter  and  place  between  the^  layers  and  on  top  a  sauce  made 


DUMPLINGS.  SHORT  CAKES,  ETC  843 

as  toUows  :  Two  cupfuls  of  rhubarb,  stewed  and  sweetenea,  to  which 
has  been  added,  just  before  removing  from  the  stove,  1  cupful  of 
chopped  dates.  This  filling  may  be  used  for  one-crust  pies,  but 
should  be_cooled  before  putting  in  the  crust  and  a  meringue  spread 
on  the  top. 

Huckleberry  Short  Cake. — One  quart  huckleberries,  4  cups  flour, 
2  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder.  Sift  the  salt  with  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  chop  in  the 
shortening,  add  the  milk  and  the  beaten  eggs,  and  mix  quickly  to  a 
light  dough.  Roll  out  two  sheets  to  fit  a  baking  pan,  making  one 
sheet  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  the  other  half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  the 
thinner  in  the  greased  pan,  spread  the  berries  thickly  over  it,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  lay  on  the  upper  crust.  Bake  about  20  minutes. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  if  desired. 

Chicago  Short  Cake. — ^Two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  1  teaspoon- 
ful  baking  powder  mixed  thoroughly  with  1  quart  of  flour,  enough 
cold  water  to  form  a  soft  dough.  Roll  about  a  half  inch  in  thickness 
and  place  on  a  hot  griddle,  well  greased.  When  brown  on  both  sides, 
split  with  a  sharp  knife  and  butter,  then  lay  the  pieces  together  again. 
Five  or  six  of  these  cakes  can  be  laid  one  on  top  of  the  other  and 
Icept  warm  for  half  an  hour  if  necessary.  To  serve,  cut  in  quarters 
like  a  pie.  A  pleasant  addition,  if  desired,  is  to  put  jelly  or  preserves 
between  the  layers.  Or  simply  butter  and  serve  with  honey  or  maple 
syrup. 

Chicken  Shortcake. — Make  a  biscuit  dough  by  a  baking-powder 
recipe  and  shorten  it  with  butter.  Divide  it  into  three  parts.  Make 
one  part  into  a  cake,  the  size  and  shape  of  your  platter,  and  bake  it. 
Stew  the  chicken  until  tender,  seasoning  with  thyme,  pepper  and  salt. 
Split  the  shortcake,  buttering  both  inner  sides.  Arrangd  the  chicken 
on  the  lower  half,  cover  with  the  upper,  and  pour  over  it  as  much 
gravy  as  it  will  take.    Serve  the  rest  in  the  gravy-boat. 

Sweet  Shortcake. — ^Three  tablespoonfuls  butter  creamed  with  a 
cup  of  powdered  sugar,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
23^  tups  of  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder.    Bake  in  layers. 


Few  persons  appreciate  how  many  dainty 
and  palatable  dishes  may  be  made  with  cheese. 
It  is  authoritatively  stated  that  cheese  taken 
after  a  hearty  meal  or  rich  dessert  acts  as  a 
digestive.  Those  who  are  fond  of  cheese  will  find  the 
following  recipes  worthy  of  a  trial,  and  those  who  do 
not  know  how  appetizing  cheese  may  be  made  will  have  many  a 
dainty  dish  in  store  for  them.  It  is  becoming  more  and  more  the 
habit  of  epicurean  households  to  serve  the  cheese  with  the  salad.  That 
it  harmonizes  better  with  our  dinners  when  served  at  that  point  is  the 
natural  result  of  the  place  we  give  to  sweets.  The  French,  who  put  it 
just  before  the  coffee,  do  not  care  for  anything  in  the  line  of  dessert, 
and  count  the  sweets  a  very  unimportant  detail  of  the  dinner.  Split 
common  crackers,  butter  them  slightly  on  each  side,  dust  salt  over 
them  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  They  are  delicious  with  coffee  and 
cheese.  We  all  know  how  soon  cheese  dries  up  and  is  unfit  for  the 
table,  but  this  same  waste  cheese  can  be  made  as  good  as  new,  and 
vfery  nice-looking,  by  grating  fine  on  a  ^^horseradish  grater.  Prepare 
only  as  much  as'is  needed  for  immediate  use,  and  you  will  find  it  good 
enough  for  anybody. 

How  to  Keep  Cheese  from  Mouldingr. — Place  the  cheese  in  a 
cloth,  wet  with  good  cider  vinegar,  which  is  to  be  wrapped  closely 
around  the  cheese.  Not  only  will  cheese  be  kept  from  moulding,  but 
a  ham  in  the  same  way. 

Busk  for  Cheese. — Break  the  bread  into  small,  rough  pieces,  dip 
each  one  quickly  in  and  out  of  cold  milk;  put  them  upon  a  perfectly- 
clean  baking  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  In  a  few  minutes  they  will 
be  crisp,  when  they  must  be  taken  out,  allowed  to  ge]t  cold  and  put 
away  in  a  tin  canister,  to  be  used  when  required.  , 

Cheese  Straws. — Roll  thin  a  rich  pie-crust  and  spread  thickly 

with  grated  cheese  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.    Fold  over  several 

times,  roll  again,  and  spread  with  cheese,  repeating  this  process  three 

times.    Then  roll  out  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  cut  in  strips  4  inches 

344 


CHEESE  DISHES.  345 

wide,  and  cut  this  paste  in  sticks  one-eighth  of  an  inch  wide.  >  Cut  some 
of  the  paste  in  small  rings,,^lace  both  on  buttered  sheets,  and  bake  in 
oven  till  light  brown.  Serve  the  straws  through  the  rings  like  a 
bundle  of  sticks,  or  tie  in  bundles  with  bright  ribbons.  These  are  to 
be  served  with  salad. 

Cheese  Fingers. — ^RoU  out  a  sheet  of  very  light  puff  paste ;  brush 
it  over  lightly  with  ice-water,  cut  in  narrow  strips,  5  or  6  inches  long ; 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  lay  two  strips  together,  arrange  on  a 
greased  tin  sheet,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  15  minutes. 

Cheese  Crusts. — They  are  made  from  half  slices  of  stale  bread, 
after  trimming  off  t^e  hard  crust.  Upon  these  oblongs  of  bread  put 
a  tablespoon  of  gratfed  cheese,  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven.  These 
may  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

Cheese  Toast. — Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  toasted  a  light  brown 
with  butter.  Heap  grated  cheese  on  the  slices  of  toast,  sprinkle  on 
half  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a 
speck  of  cayenne.  Put  in  a  hot  oven  till  the  cheese  begins  to  melt. 
Serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Toast,  Deviled. — Four  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese,  2 
egg  yolks,  4  tablespoonfuls  grated  bread,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Beat  the  whole  well  together  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  dry  mustard 
and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Toast  some  bread  lightly  and  cut  it  into 
small  round  or  square  pieces,  spread  -the  paste  thick  upon  them,  and 
place  them  in  a  hot  oven  and  cover  with  a  dish  until  heated.  Then 
remove  the  dish  and  let  the  cheese  mixture  brown  a  little,  and  serve 
as  soon  as  possible. 

Cheese  Toast-— II.  Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of  bread  6  slices  about 
one-half  inch  thick.  JBeat  1  egg  into  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  add 
one-half  pound  of  good  cheese  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Put 
this  mixture  in  a  clean  saucepan,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and 
stir  until  quite  smooth.  Place  the  toast  on  a  hot  platter  and  cover 
with  the  dressing,  in  which  should  be  added  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 
For  a  change  this  dish  can  be  placed  in  the  oven  until  a  rich  brown. 
It  serves  for  luncheon  or  for  a  dinner  course. 

Custard  Cheese. — Remove  the  crust  from  4  or  5  slices  of  bread 
and  butter  generously.  Arrange  in  a  buttered  baking  pan  and 
sprinkle  with  some  good  sharp  cheese.  Beat  well  4  eggs,  add  3  cup- 
els of  new  milk  and  season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.     Pour 


848  CHEESE  DISHES. 

the  mixture  over  the  bread  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  very  nicely 
browned. 

Cheese  Canapes. — Cut  bread  into  slices  one-quarter  inch  thick,  4 
inches  long  and  2  inches  wide;  spread  it  with  butter  and  sprinkle  it 
with  salt  and  cayenne;  cover  the  top  .with  grated  American  cheese 
or  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  bake  It  in  the  oven  until  the 
cheese  is  softened.    Serve  at  once,  before  the  cheese  hardens. 

Cheese  Squkres. — Trim  pieces  of  stale  bread  as  neatly  as  pos- 
sible into  squares  and  triangles.  Make  a  sauce  of  a  cupful  of  milk, 
half  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 
Lay  the  bread  on  a  large  flat  baking  dish ;  pour  the  sauce  over  and 
bake  until  nicely  browned.  These  are  also  very  nice  to  serve  with  a 
plain  consomme  soup. 

Cheese  Crackers, — ^A  dainty  morsel  for  the  hungry  half  hour  be- 
fore bedtime  is  "  cheese-crackers."  Spread  thin  zephyrettes  or  salted 
crsttkers  with  a  little  butter  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  grated  Parmesan 
^heese.  Place  on  a  dish  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  brown  them 
slightly.    These  will  keep  for  several  days. 

Deviled  Cheese  Crackers. — Cover  Saratoga  flakes  with  grated 
old  cheese,  give  a  sharp  sifting  of  cayenne  pepper,  place  in  oven 
until  cheese  is  melted.  Serve  hot,  using  ordinary  small,  round  crackers. 

Cheese  Flakes. — Buy  a  smal].  bpx  of  reception  flakes,  such  as 
can  be  found  at  any  first-class  grocery.  Butter  each  cracker,  then 
grate  cheese  on  them,  place  in  pan,  put  in  a  quick  oven  and  brown. 
These  are  delicious  flakes  for  a  whist  party  or  picnics. 

launch  Crackers. — rSplit  common  crackers,  butter  them  slightly 
on  each  side,  dust  salt  overthem,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  They  are 
delicious  with  coffee  and  cheese. 

Deviled  Biscuit  and  Cheese. — ^Take  water  tiscuits,  split  them  and 
butter  each  half  generously.  Sprinkle  over  it  a  layer  of  cheese.  Se( 
these  in  a  baking  pan.  Dust  over  with  cayenne,  and  set  in  a  quick 
oven  for  about  5  minutes.    When  cheese  is  melted  serve  very  hot. 

Welsh  Karebit.-^To  make  a  highly  seasoned  rarebit  place  over 
the  fire  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  when  it  becomes 
melted  put  in  2  cups  of  cheese,  broken  into  small  pieces,  a  salt  spoon- 
ful of  salt,  Vnd  half  as  much  red  pepper.  Stir  all  the  while,  and  when 
it  becomes  a  soft  mass,  gradually  stir  into  it  1  cup.  of  ale.  Meanwhile 
take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  add  to  them  3  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  mus- 


CHEESE  DISHES.  347 

•tard,  the  *  me  quantity  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  half  a  dozen 
drops  of  tf  basco,  and  add  this  to  the  cheese  mixture.  If  too  thick 
add  a  little  more  ale.  Pour  over  square  pieces  of  toastand  serve  at  once. 

W4lsb  Rarebit  (without  Ale). — A  very  simple  and  delicious 
rarebit  mjybe  made  with  1  pound  of  cheese  broken  into  pieces  and 
put  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoonful  of 
French  mustard,  a  dash  of  paprika,  a  little  salt,  and  1  teaspoohful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Place  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  the  cheese 
becomes  melted.  Have  -ready  squares  of  toast,  and  pour  the  cheese 
mixture  Dver  them  and  serve  immediately.  , 

Golden  Buck. — Make  same  as  above  recipe,  with  the  addition  of 
a  poached  egg  upon  the  top  of  each  slice  of  toast  and  cheese  mixture. 

Torkshire  Buck. — Same  as  a  rarebit,  with  the  addition  of  2  strips 
of  crisp  bacon  and  1  poached  egg  on  top  of  each  slice. 

Celery  Cheese. — ^Take  a  head  of  delery,  wash  thoroughly,  and 
boil  until  tender ;  drain  well,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Have  ready 
a  half  pint  of  cream  and  drawn  butter,  add  pepper,  salt  and  an  ounce 
of  grated  cheese  to  it,  put  the  celery  into  the  sauce  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  fill  buttered  scallop  shells  with  the  mixture,  scatter  grated  cheese 
over  the  top,  and  bake  for  10  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  when  the 
cheese  should  be  evenly  browned. 

Brown  Bread  Savories. — Mix  a  sufficient  quantity  of  grated 
cheese  with  thick  cream  until  stiff,  cut  some  slices  of  thin  brown 
bread  and  butter,  and  spread  between  them  the  mixture,  seasoned  with 
a  dust  of  pepper  and  celery  salt.  These  should  be  eaten  without  delay. 

Cheese  Puffs^ — Place  4  ounces  of  grated  cheese  in  a  saucepan, 
with  1  j4  ounces  of  butter.  Put  over  the  fire,  and  when  the  ingre- 
dients begin  to  melt  add  4  eggs  beaten  light,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and 
half  as  much  cayenne.  Stir  and  cook  until  you  can  roll  it  up  into  a 
soft  muff-shaped  form,  when  serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Bingrs. — ^Take  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese.  It  should  be 
dry  and  rich.  Mix  with  twice  the  quantity  of  sifted  flour,  salt  to 
taste,  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  and  a  little  cay- 
enne. Add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  light,  the  juice  of  a  large, 
fresh  lemon,  and  enough  melted  butter  to  form  a  paste.  Roll  it  until 
an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Make  in  small  rings,  flour  them  and  let 
them  bake  until  crisp.  Tie  them  together  when  cool,  3  in  a  bunch, 
with  narrow  ribbon,  and  lay  beside  each  plate. 


CHEESE  DISHES. 

Cheese  Timbale. — Six  eggs,  1  gill  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  2  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese.  Beat  the  eggs  well  without 
separating  the  yolks  and  whites,  add  the  milk  and  seasoning ;  stir  in 
the  cheese,  and  pour  into  well-greased  little  tin  pans  with  straight 
sides ;  set  these  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  the  oven ;  when  the 
eggs  are  firm  turn  out  oh  a  flat  dish,  and  pour  a  white  sauce  over  them, 

Cheese  and  Bacon.-^An  excellent  dish  and  one  very  much  liked 
for  late  suppers  is  made  thus :  Place  in  a  small  double  boiler  6  ounces 
of  grated  cheese,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  half  cup  of  milk, 
and  1  beaten  egg.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  is  a  creamy  mass.  Mean- 
while <;ut  pieces  of  bread  2  inches  wide  and  3  long  and  toast  them. 
Cover  them  with  a  thick  layer  of  cheese  mixture,  and  lay  on  each 
piece  a  slice  of  hot,  crisp  bacon.  Place  in  the  oven  for  a  moment 
and  the  dish  is  ready  to  serve. 

Cheese  Dessert. — ^Take  as  many  slices  of  stale  bread  as  needed  5 
melt  1  spoon  of  butter  with  1  of  lard  in  the  frying-pan.  Beat  up  2 
eggs  and  2  spoons  of  sugar.  Dip  bread  into  sugar  and  eggs.  Fry 
in  hot  lard  and  butter  until  it  is  a  nice  brown.  Have  as  many  thin 
slices  of  cheese  as  there  are  slices  of  bread.  When'  the  bread  is 
browned  put  the  cheese  on  it  and  set  in  the  oven  until  the  cheese  is 
thoroughly  warmed.     Serve  at  once  with  tea  or  coffee. 

Cottage  Cheese. — Place  a  panful  of  milk,  which  has  soured 
enough  to  become  thick,  over  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Let  it  heat  slowly 
until  the  whey  has  separated  from  the  curd.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  or 
the  curd  will  become  tough.  Then  strain  it  through  a  cloth  and 
press  out  all  the  whey.  Stir  into  the  curd  enough  butter,  cream  and 
salt  to  make  it  a  little  moist  and  of  good  flavor.  Work  it  well  with, 
a  spoon  until  it  becomes  fine  grained  and  consistent.  Then  mould  it 
/into  balls  of  any  size  desired. 

'  Smearkase. — Pour  a  little  boiling  water  into  1  quart  or  more  of 
sour  milk,  stir,  and  let  it  stand  1  hour  in  a  warm  place,  separate  from 
the  whey  and  put  on  ice ;  in  the  rporning  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  half  a  cup  of  cream. 

Cream  Cheese. — Take  sour  cream,  salt  it  slightly  and  hang  it  up 
in  a  linen  bag  to  drain  until  dry,  This  takes  two  days  or  more. 
Then  put  in  a  deep  dish,  still  in  the  bag,  and  let  it  ripen  for  a  week 
sprinkling  it  with  salt  daily.     Good  fpr  luncheon. 


The    art  of  making  entrees 
really  well  and  serving  them  in 
i^lHilimu.  ^  perfection  is  easily  acquired,  and  is  certainly 

fr HP*""  worth  learning,  as  those  dishes  never  fail  to 

J  IP  meet  ^jth  hearty  appreciation.    First,  then,  see  that  all  the 

ingredients  are  of  the  finest  quality,  and  mix  them  in  exact 
accordance  to  the  directions  given  in  such  case ;  then  see 
that  the  oven  is  just  at  the  right  heat,  and  let  every  separate  item 
employed  in  the  serving  be  made  thoroughly  hot  before  using ;  send 
the  entree  to  table  as  speedily  as  possible  after  it  is  cooked,  as  every 
moment  it  is  kept  waiting  tends  to  destroy  the  puffiness  which  ren- 
ders it  so  enjoyable ;  and,  lastly,  never  wash  the  tins  in  which  the  en- 
trees are  cooked,  but  rub  them  well  with  a  clean,  soft  cloth. '  Some 
entrees  to  be  used  as  side  dishes,  and  others  in  the  nature  of  desserts. 
Salmon  Sntree. — Put  in  a  clean  enameled  stew-pan  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  and  an  equal  amount  of  flour;  blend  these  into  a 
smooth  paste;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  anchovy 
sauce,  and  add  three-fourths  pint  of  milk.  Stir  constantly  until  the 
mixture  boils.  Draw  the  saucepan  then  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  and 
add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  1  dessert-spoonful  minced  parsley,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  4  fresh  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  tomato  pulp,  and  half 
pound  of  finely  chopped  raw  salmon-Aveighed  after  chopping.  Wheft 
thoroughly  mixed,  stir  in,  very  lightly,  the  whites  of  6  fresh  eggs 
which  have  been  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  the  addition  of  a  pincb 
of  salt.  Have  ready  a  properly  prepared  entr6e  tin,  and  pour  in  the 
mixture ;  then  sprinkle  the  surface  lightly  with  very  fine  light-brown 
bread  raspings,  scatter  bits  of  fresh  butter  .on  the  top,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  after  which  ornament 
the  entree  top  with  wee  patches  of  finely  minced  hot  parsley  and  sifted 
egg  yolk,  and  serve  as  quickly  as  possible,  accompanied  by  some 
well-made  sauce — anchovy,  shrimp,  maitre  d'h6tel,  oyster  or  lobster — 
in  a  hot  sauceboat.  If  salmon  cannot  be  had,  use  any  other  fine^ 
fresh  fish  instead. 

849 


350  ENTREES. 

Glilcken  Entree. — Melt  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  the  same 
quantity  of  flour  and  one-half  cupful  of  milk ;  when  hot  and  smooth, 
add  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  cook  a  minute,  and  then  add  1  pint  of 
cooked  chopped  chicken.  Separate  3  eggs,  beat  the  yellows,  and 
add  to  the  mixture,  taking  it  from  the  fire  while  you  do  so ;  add  a 
tablespoonfiil  of  chopped  parsley,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash 
of  red  pepper,  and  then  fold  in  lightly  the  frothed  whites  and  the  3 
eggs.  Bake  in  individual  paper  or  china  cases,  and  serve  as  soon  as 
taken  from  the  oven.  For  a  family  luncheon  it  may  be  cooked  in  a 
baking-dish. 

Chicken  and  Ham  Entree.—Mix  together  butter  and  flour  as 
directed  in  salmon  entree,  then  add  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and 
mace,  the  strained  juice  of  a  fresh  lemon,  1  teaspoonful  of  finely 
minced  onion  or  eschalot,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  rich,  dear, 
white  stock,  and  stir  constantly  over  a  moderate  fire  uritil  the  mixture 
boils ;  then  ,add^ — off"  the  fire — 4  fresh  egg  yolks,  half  pound,  scant, 
of  finely  minced  cooked  chicken,  3  ounces  of  lean  cooked  ham,  also 
finely  minced,  and  the  whites  of  6  fresh  eggs  seasoned  with  salt  and 
whipped  to  a  stiff"  froth,  after  which  cook  and  serve  as  already  di- 
rected, accompanied  by  rich  sauce. 

Meat  Entree. — Prepare  a  nice,  savory  mince  of  any  kind  of  meat, 
seasoned  to  taste,  and  mixed  with  any  gbod  sauce,  white  or  brown, 
according  to  the  meat  you  have  at  hand.  Now  beat  the  whites  of  2 
or  3  eggs  to  a  very  stiff"  froth,  with  a  little  salt,  a  good  seasoning  of 
coralline  pepper,  and,  when  liked,  a  spoonful  or  two  of  grated  Par- 
jpesan  cheese.  Pile  this  on  the  top  of  the  mince,  which  should  be 
put  into  a  souffle  case,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  till  of  a  delicate  brown. 
Sprinkle  it  with  finely  chopped  chives  or  parsley,  and  serve  at  once. 
Any  sort  of  meat  can  be  served  in  this  way,  but  vary  the  seasoning 
accordingly. 

Cheese  Entree. — Place  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  2  tablespoon-- 
fuls  of  butter,  and  when  it  is  hot  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Then  add  a  half  cup  of  i  cream  or  milk  and 
salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Beat  light  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  add 
them  with  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese.  Remove  from  the  firejind  put 
in  a  cool  place.  When  cold  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  ei 
stiff"  froth.  Pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  about  20  minutes. 
This,  like  all  souffles,  must  be  taken  immediately  from  the  oven  to  the 


ENTREES.  351 

table.  Some  cooks  add  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  instead  of 
1  dish.  The  preparation  can  be  baked"  in  small  fancy  cases,  and  one 
served  to  each  person. 

Entree  (Plain). — Heat  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
stir  in  2  dessertspoons  of  flour  till  smooth,  then  add  1  tumbler  ot 
milk  J  heat  till  starch-like ;  put  in  your  pudding  dish  and  stir  in  the 
unbeaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  ;  then  whip  the  whites  as  light  as  possible 
with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  stir  therein  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 
Serve  hot,  with  foaming  sauce.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Potato  Entree. — Roast  12  good  potatoes  and  rub  them  through 
a  coarse  sieve ;  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  flavored  with  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  over  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs,  and 
mix  lightly  into  this  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  stir  it  all  into  the  potato ;  pour  the  whole  into  a  buttered  and 
papered  souffle  dish,  and  bake. 

Cauliflower  Entree. — ^Trim  the  vegetable  neatly,  and  blanch  it 
well,  then  boil  it  in  the  usual  way  until  quite  tender,  after  which 
take  it  up,  drain  it  thoroughly,  and  divide  it  into  tiny  sprigs  or  flow- 
erets; arrange  these  very  lightly  in  a  buttered  souffle  tin,  after 
seasoning  them  nicely  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice ;  then  pour 
over  a  mixture  prepared  as  follows  : 

Entree  Mixture — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  blended  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  stir  together  in  a  clean  granite  saucepan  over  a 
moderate  fire,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  fresh  eggs,  a  seasoning 
of  salt  and  cayenne,  and  half  pint  of  milk,  and  continue  stirring  until 
the  mixture  boils  ;  then  draw  the  pan  on  one  side,  stir  in  lightly  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  (equal  parts  of  Parmesan  and  good 
American)  and  the  whites  of  3  fresh  eggs  which  have  been  slightly 
salted  and  stiffly  whipped.  Put  on  the  paper  band  and  finish  off  with 
fine  brown  raspings  and  bits  of  butter,  as  directed  for  salmon.  Bake 
carefully  in  a  well-heated  oven,  then  ornament  the  top,  as  quickly  as 
possible,  with  alternate  patches  or  rings  of  sifted  egg  yolk  or  finely. 
minced  parsley,  and  serve  immediately,  accompanied  or  not,  by  some 
well-made  cream  Bechamel,  French  white,  or  maitre  d'hdtel  sauce  in 
a  sauce-boat. 

Various  vegetables  may  be  made  into  a  souffle,  such  a3  aspara 
gus,  freshly-shelled  green  peas,  very  small  even-sized  Brussels  sprouts, 
or  properly  prepared  artichokes^  cucumbers,  vegetable  marrows^ 


352  ENTREES. 

French  beans,  etc.,  cut  up  into  small,  neat  pieces, or  slices,  and  pre- 
pare as  above.     Even  a  mixture  of  vegetables  will  answer. 

Ground  Kice  Entree. — Put  into  a  suitable  stewpan  2  ounces  of 
.fine  white  sugar,  3  ounces  of  butter,  1  large  tablespoOnful  of  flour, 
the  grated  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon,  3  ounces  of  ground  rice,  three- 
fourths  pint  of  milk,  4  egg  yolks,  a  pleasant  flavoring  of  vanilla,  or 
some  other  essence,  and  stir  together  over  a  moderate  fire  until  the 
mixture  boils  and  forms  a  nice  smooth  paste ;  then  remove  the  pan 
from  the  fire.  Stir  in  4  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk  and  the  whites 
of  6  eggs  properly  prepared,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  a  souffle  tin,  or 
dish,  v/hich  has  previously  been  got  ready,  scattering  tiny  bits  of  but- 
ter on  the  top,  and  bake  in  the  usual  manner.  Some  dainty  sauce,  or 
a  compote  of  fruit  may  accompany  this  dish,  or  not,  just  according 
to  taste. 

Note. — Souffles  of  arrowrootj  tapioca,  sago,  semolina,  etc.,  are  all 
exceedingly  nifie  when  made  according  to  the  foregoing  instructions. 

Potato  Souffle. — Make  from  freshly  cooked  Irish  potatoes,  or 
mashed  potatoes,  warmed  up.  To  six  medium-sized  mashed  potatoes 
add  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  gill  of  cream, 
1  teaspoonfiil  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper.  Mix  smooth  and 
beat  light ;  into  this  lightly  stir  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stifT;  put  in 
hot  buttered  dish,  grate  cheese  over  it,  brown  and  serve  quickly  in 
the  same  dish. 

Souffle-Tin. — If  a  proper  souffle-tin  is  come-at-able,  itis  the  right 
thing  to  use ;  and  as  it  forms  the  lining  of  a  silver  souffle-dish,  it 
looks  exceedingly  pretty  on  the  table.  But  if  something  else  has  to 
be  substituted,  use  a  deep,  straight-sided  cake-tin,  or  even  a  deep  pie- 
dish  ;  and  in  every  case  fix  firmly  round  the  tin  or  the  dish  which  is 
used  a  strong  paper  band,  to  stand  about  three  inches  above  the  top, 
so  that  when  the  souffle,  rises,  as  it  does  very  considerably,  the  pre- 
paration may  be  kept  from  running  over  the  sides.  When  done,  if  a 
proper  tin  has  been  used,  just  remove  the  paper  band  and  slip  the  tin 
gently  into  the  silver  dish,  which  has  been  made  thoroughly  hot  in 
readiness ;  bi^t  if  a  cake-tin  or  a  vpie-dish  has  been  employed,  have 
ready  a  very  hot,  neatly-folded  napkin,  or  fancy  frill  of  some  kind, 
and  as  soon  as  ever  the  paper  band  has-been  removed,  fix  this  on  and 
serve  the  souffle  set  on  a  very  hot,  fancy  dish-paper. 


The  excellency  of  pastry  depends 
quite  as  much  on  its  being  properly 
baked  as  it  does  on  the  ingredients  and 
^^^g^^-..  H/>*  «"  their  preparation.    If  the  oven  is  too  cool, 

^^#ir~mj|^/!ffc  the  crust  of  pies,  tarts  or  patties  will  fall 

'^fZ'^'i!f,ij>'''  and  be  heavy ;  if,  on  the  contrary,  the  heat  is  too  great, 
Ji  .iljll  '""  it  will  burn  before  baking.    A  small  piece  of  crust 

*  '""I"*  may  be  placed  in  the  oven  to  test  it,  or  a  little  flour  sprinkled 
on  the  bottom  of  the  oven.  If  it  browns  readily,  the  oven  is 
in  proper  condition ;  if  it  turns  black,  it  is  too  hot ;  if  it  only  colors 
slightly,  it  is  too  slow.  When  prepared  for  baking,  all  pastry  should 
be  ice  cold,  and  set  in  the  hottest  part  of  the  oven.  After  the  pastry 
has  riset,  the  heat  may  be  slightly  decreased,  or  the  pies  covered 
with  a  sheet  of  paper.  This  latter  precaution  is  especially  necessary 
for  large  fruit  or  meat  pies. 

An  improvement  in  pie  crust  is  made  by  the  addition  of  baking 
powder,  in  the  proportion  of  about  1  small  teappoonful  of  baking 
powder,  to  a  quart  of  flour.  To  make  pie  crust  more  flaky,  brush 
the  paste  as  often  as  it  is  rolled  out  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  then 
put  on  the  bits  of  butter,  fold  and  roll  again.  -  This  causes  it  to  rise 
in  flakes,  which  is  the  great  beauty  in  puff  paste.  Pie  crust  can  be 
kept  a  week  and  be  perfectly  good,  if  it  is  put  in  a  tightly  covered  dish 
and  set  on  ice  in  summer  and  a  cool  place  in  winter.  In  this  way  a 
fresh  pie  can  be  made  every  day  without  trouble.  In  baking  cream, 
custard  or  pumpkin  pies,  it  is  well  to  partly  bake  the  under  crust 
before  putting  in  the  filling. 

If  stewed  fruit  is  to  be  used,  have  it  perfectly  cold  before  putting 
in,  otherwise  it  will  soak,  and  render  the  under  crust  heavy.  A 
marble  slab  rnakes  a  cool,  nice  bread-board  for  pastry.  Roll  pastry 
in  one  direction,  from  you. 

Tart  pies  should  always  have  a  heavy  edge  to  the  under  crust, 
Lay  on  a  narrow  strip  of  pastry  and  pinch  together  with  the  fingers, 
or  cut  the  crust  larger  than  the  tin  and  roll  the  edge  over.  Ice- 
water,  or  very  cold  water,  should  be  used  for  mixed  pastry.  Use  as 
little  as  possible.    The  butter  or  lard  used  in  shortening  should  be 

COOK— 23  363 


354  PIES  AND  PASTRY. 

cold.  Cut  the  shortening  into  the  flour  with  a  knife,  and  keep  the 
fingers  out  of  the  dough  as  much  as  possible.  Roll  the  under  crust 
of  a  pie  a  little  thicker  than  the  upper.  Two  kinds  of  crust  may  be 
used  in  making  a  pie.  Divide  the  dough,  which  should  be  of  a 
moderate  richness.  Leave  a  little  more  than  half  of  it  for  the  lower 
crust.  Roll '  in  more  butter  or  lard  into  the  smaller  half  Spread 
and  fold ;  roll  again.  Repeat  this,  and  the  result  will  be  a  flaky  crust 
to  use  for  the  upper  part  of  the  pie.  To  dot  the  butter  over  the 
crust  is  better  than  to  spread  it  evenly. 

One-third  cornmeal  added  to  pje  crust  make§  it  lighter  and  more 
digestible.  Biscuit  pie  crust  is  wholesome.  Apples  used  for  mince- 
pie  need  not  be  peeled.  Wash,  dry  and  chop  fine.  Dried  apples, 
soaked  over  night  and  chopped  fine,  may  be  substituted  for  the  fresh 
fruit  in  mince-meat.  Dried  fruit,  prepared  with  sugar,  such  as  dried 
cherries,  gooseberries,  etc.,  may  be  substituted  instead  of  raisins  in 
mince  pies.  Soak  over  night  in  as  little  water  as  possible  and  throw 
in  both  water  and  fruit.  This  will  be  found  very  nice  as  well  as  eco- 
nomical. White  potatoes,  chopped  fine  and  soaked  over  night  in 
vinegar,  are  sometimes  used  as  a  substitute  for  apples  in  mince-meat. 
Fruit  pies  take  less  sugar  if  they  are  sweetened  after  baking.  Re- 
move the  upper  crust  and  put  in  the  sugar.  Wild  grapes  may  be  pre- 
served for  winter  use  by  putting  in  a  jar  and  covering  with  molasses. 
These  will  be  found  very  nice  for  pies.  Apples  cut  in  quarters  and 
stewed  in  sweet  cider  or  molasses  are  good  for  plain  piej.  Season 
with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  This  will  keep  in  excellent  conditipafor 
several  months, 

Punipkins  that  have  commenced  to  decay  may  be  preserved  by 
cutting  up  the  best  parts,  stewing  until  soft,  sweetening  well  with 
sugkr  and  molasses  and  seasoning  with  ginger.  Scald  in  the  season- 
ing thoroughly.  Keep  in  a  stone  jar  in  a  cool  place.  When  wanted 
for  use  thin  the  desired  amount  with  milk  and  eggs.  Never  grease  a 
pie  plate,  but  sift  a  thin  layer  of  flour  over;  there  will  be  fat  enough 
from  the  paste  to  slip  the  pie  from  the  plate  ;  plates  will  keep  sweet 
longer.  Sift  a  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  sugar  over  the  top  of  two- 
crust  pies  before  baking  and  see  how  delicious  it  makes  them.  If 
the  top  of  a  pie  is  brushed  over  with  an  egg,  it  gives  it  a  very  orna- 
mental gloss.  To  prevent  the  juice  of  pies  from  running  over,  thrust 
little  funnels  of  white  paper  into  thejcuts  on  top,  through  which  the 


PIES  AND  PASTRY.  355 

steam  may  escape  and  the  juice  boil  up,  and  then  run  back  into  the 
pie  again  when  it  stops  cooking.  / 

Again,  fruit  pies  can  have  a  narrow  band  of  muslin  around  the  pie, 
covering  the  edge.  This  keeps  in  the  j  uice  and  prevents  the  besmeared 
appearance  which  fruit  pies  are  apt  to  have.  Or,  put  the  usual  amount 
of  sugar  in  a  bowl,  add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  sort  of  dough, 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  mix 
thoroughly.     Pour  this  over  the  fruit.     Put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake. 

To  Make  a  Pie. 

Roll  out  the  crust  to  fit  the  pie-plate.  Press  it  neatly  in  shape, 
and  then  cut  off  the  edges  evenly.  Take  some  more  of  the  paste  and 
the  fragments  left  from  trimming  off  the  under  crust,  and  roll  out  for  the 
upper  crust.  Fold  this  together,  and  cut  3  or  4  half-inch  slits  about 
one-quarter  inch  from  middle.  This  permits  the  escape  of  steam 
without  injuring  the  shape  of  the  pic.  Now  fill  the  pie-plate  with  the 
prepared  filling.  Wet  the  top  edge  of  the  rim.  Lay  the  upper  crust 
across  the  centre  of  the  pie,  turn  back  the  folded-over  side,  fasten  the 
two  edges  by  pressing  with  the  thumb,  and  cut  off  the  paste  even 
with  the  tin.  Run  a  pastry  wheel  around  the  edge,  or  simply  notch 
with  a  fork,  or  leave  plain.  Bake  a  light  brown  and  until  the  filling 
boils  up  through  the  openings.  Wet  the  under  crust  with  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  prevent  fruit  juices,  or  soft  fillings,  from  soaking  the 
under  crust. 

Plain  Pie  Crust. — Cut  1  cup  (half  a  pound)  of  butter  into  3  cups 
of  flour ;  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sufiicient  ice-water  to  moisten 
and  roll.  A  small  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  is  an  addition ;  half 
teaspoonful  salt.  The  secret  of  making  good  pastry  is  to  touch  it  as 
little  as  possible  with  the  hand.  To, make  the  pies  nicer,  one-quarter 
of  the  sliortening  may  be  left  out,  and  the  pastry  for  the  upper  crust 
can  be  rolled  flat,  dotted  with  butter  and  lard ;  sprinkle  with  flour,  fold 
together  and  roll  again,  repeating  this  operation  until  the  shortening 
is  used.  Thisi  will  give  a  flaky  upper  crust.  Threfe-fourths  of  cup  of 
shortening  can  be  used  with  the  baking  powder.  Some  cooks  prefer 
lard  to  butter,  as  making  a  whiter  crust. 

Extra  Mince-Meat. — Two  pounds  raw  beef,  chopped  fine ;  2  pounds 
suet,  minced  fine ;  4 pounds  tart  apples,  chopped;  2  pounds  currants ; 
2  pounds  raisins;  2  pounds  citron,  sliced  fine;  2  pounds  brown 


S56 


PIES  AND  PASTRY. 


sugar;  1  quart  New  Orleans  molasses; 4  tablespoonfuls  salt;  1}4 
lablespoonfuls  mixed  spices,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice;  half 
ounce  wfhite  pepper;  2  grated  nutmpgs;  juice  of  2  lemons  ;  1  quart 
cider;  1  quart  of  brandy,  or  fruit  juice.  Mix  first  meat,  which  be 
sure  is  not  cooked,  with  salt,  suet  and  spices ;  then  apple,  fruit;  next 
lemons,  then  sugar.     Should  be  mad^  several  weeks  before  using. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. — Four  crackers,  rolled ;  2  eggs,  half  cupful 
chopped  raisins,  half  cupful  raisins,  half  cupful  vinegar,  1  cupful  hot 
water,  one-quarter  cupful  butter,  1  cupful  sugar,  1  cupful  molasses,  1 
teaspoon'ful  each  of  all  kinds  of  spices,  1  teaspoonfiil  salt.  This 
makes  3  pies. 

Glazing  Pastry; — ^To  glaze  or  ice  pastry,  which  is  the  usual 
method  for  fruit  tarts,  etc.,  beat  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  a  froth.  When  the  crust  is 
nearly  baked  brush  if  over  with  this,  and 
sift  granulated  sugar  over  it.  Put  back 
in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  a  few  minutes, 
being  careful  that  the  glaze  does  not  burn. 
Puff  Paste. — One  pound  of  flour, 
three-fourths  pound  of  butter,  the  yolk  of 
i  egg ;  chop  half  of  the  butter  in  the 
flour,  then  add  the  beaten  yolk,  and  as 
much  ice  water  as  is  needed  to  work  all 
into  a  dough ;  roll  out  thin,  and  spread  on  some  of  the  butter,  fold 
closely,  buttered  side  in,  and  reroll ;  repeat  until  the  butter  is  all  used 
up ;  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  you  wish  to  use  it 

I>mon  Meringue  Pie. — Yolks  of  3  eggs,  creamed,  with  1  cupful 
sugar ;  add  the  unbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Beat  the  whole  until 
light.  ^  Add  3  lemons'  juice  and  grated  rind,  1  tablespoonful  butter. 
Stand  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire  and  stir  until 
the  mixture  thicken^ ;  set  away  to  cool.  Line  a  pie-dish  with  good 
paste  and  bake ;  then  pour  in  the  lemon  mixture.  Beat  the  "remain- 
ing white  of  egg  with  3  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar;  put  this 
meringue  over  top  of  the  pie  and  set  in  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 
Frosting. — Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff,  then  boil  1  cup  of  sugar 
in  a  little  water  till  it  strings  from  fork,  then  pour  on  the  whites  and 
stir  fast;  then  spread  on  pie  with  a  knife  which  has  been  wet  in  cold 
water ;  then  set  in  oven  a  couple  of  minutes  to  set  the  frosting. 


PIES  AND  PASTRY. 


357 


Lemon  Molasses  Pie. — Take  1  lemon  (if  small,  2),  pare  and  boil 
the  peel  and  then  chop,  with  1  cup  of  raisins;  then  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  either  white  or  brown ;  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  stirred  thin  in  cold  water ;  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  1  cup 
of  boiling  water;  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  mix  all  together. 
These  are  to  be  baked  with  two  crusts. 

Sliced  liemon  Pie. — Line  the  pie-plate  with  rich  crust,  put  in  1 
cup  of  sugar.  Slice  a  large  lemon,  after  peeling  very  thin,  taking  out 
the  seeds.  Put  on  the  upper  crust,  pressing  very  tightly ;  bake  slowly 
1  hour.     The  lemon  and  sugar  form  a  delightful  tart  jelly. 

Lemon  Pie  Without  Eggs. — This  is  gOod  and  convenient  to 
have ;  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  4  pounded  crackers,  2  cups 
of  water,  1  ^^  cups  of  sugar ;  2  pies.  ' 

Orange  Pie.-^Prepare  1  cup  of  orange  juice  and  pulp,  and  the 
grated  rind  of  half  an  orange.  Cream 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  1  cup 
of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  the  orange.  Soak  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs  in 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  and  add  them  to 
the  orange  and  egg  mixture.  Bake 
in  one  Crust  and  cover  with  a  ifte- 
ringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Apple  Pie. — Pare  and  core  tart 
ripe  apples.  Slice  thin.  Fill  the 
under  crust.  Add  a  small  teacupful  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
water.  Dredge  the  top  well  with  flour.  Dot  over  with  bits  of  butter ; 
flavor  with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Add  the  upper  crust  Bake  about 
40  minutes.  If  the  apples  are  not  tart  enough,  add  the  lemon  juice. 
A  nice  apple  sauce  may  be  used  in  pie  shells.  See  above.  Sweet 
cream  may  be  served  with  apple  pies.  Bake  a  nice  apple  pie ;  cut  it 
hot,  and  pour  cream  over  it.     Serve  immediately.    Delicious. , 

Winter  Apple  Pie. — Chop  half  a  dozen  large  apples  quite  fine : 
mix  them  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  grated  rind,  1  cup  of 
chepped  currants  and  raisins,  1  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter ; 
cut  in  sniall  pieces.  Mix  all  together,  lay  in  a  pie-plate  lined  with 
paste,  coyer  and  bake. 


Nutmeg  Grater. 


368  PIES  AND  PASTRY. 

Apple  Meringue  Pie. — ^Line  a  pie-plate  with  nice  crust.  Fill 
with  stewed  apples,  sweetened  and  flavored.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  paste  is  a  light  brown.  Allow  the  whites  of  2  eggs  for 
each  pie,  beat  tfiem  stiff  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little 
extract  of  vanilla.  When  the  pies  are  bajced,  spread  the  meringjie 
'  over  them,  and  return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes. 

Pork  Apple  Pie. — Line  the  pie-plate  with  good  crust ;  slice  in  a 
layer  of  apples ;  cut  bits  of  salt  pork  over  them ;  dust  on  a  little  cinna- 
mon ;  repeat  this  once  more.  Cover  the  whole  with  three-fourths 
cupful  sugar.  Put  on  the  top  crust,  and  bake  slowly  about  1  hour. 
Some  cooks  use  4  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  to  sweeten  this  pie 
instead  of  sugar.  ~^ 

Custard  Pie,  Plata. — Heat  1  pint  of  milk,  boiling  hot,  mix  to- 
gether 2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  half  cupful  sugar,  2  eggs.  Stir  into 
the  boiling  milk  and  cook  10  minutes,  taking  care  not  to  burn.  Take 
from  the  stove.  Flavor  to  suit.  Pour  it  into  the  crust,  which  should 
have  been  already  baked.  Leave  out  white  of  1  egg,  if  wished^  and 
whip  to  a  froth  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  and  spread  it  over  the  top 
of  the  pie  as  soon  as  it  is  cool.     Place  in  the  oven  to  harden. 

Harlequin  Cream  Pie.— Cover  a  pie  tin  with  pastry.  Put  a 
layer  of  bright-colored  jelly  (currant  is  best)  in  the  bottom ;  fill  up 
with  mock  cream  filling  (see  recipe) ;  afterwards  cover  with  a  meringue 
or  frosting.  This  pie  is  delicious,  and  when  cut  is  ornamental  in  ap- 
pearance. 

ElggXess  Pumpkin,  Pie. — Peel  and  cut  the  pumpkin  in  small 
gieces ;  stew  until  tender,  in  very  little  water,  or  steam  until  done,  and 
mash.  Have  the  pulp  as  dry  as  possible.  Beat  smooth  or  rub 
through  a  colander.  Turn  1}4  pints  of  boiling  milk,  upon  1  quart  of 
the  sifted  pumpkin.  Sweeten  with  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  molasses 
and  half  cupful  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  salt ;  spice  or  not  to  suit  the 
taste.  A  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger  is  a  good  flavor- 
ing. The  boiling  milk  causes  the  pumpkin  to  swell  in  baking,  so  that 
it  is  as  light  as  if  eggs  had  been  used. 

Custard  Pumpkin  Pie. — ^To  every  quart  of  cooked  and  strained 
pumpkin  (prepared  according  to  directions  above  given)  add  1  quart 
of  milk  and  3  eggs.  One  teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  of  the  milk  will  make  the  pie  cut  more  solid.  Sweeten  to  taste 
with  brown  sugar,  or  sugar  and  molasses  half  and  hal£    If  the.  milk 


PIES  AND  PASTRY.  359 

is  not  very  rich,  add  1  teaspoonful  melted  butter  to  this  rule.  Season 
with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  or  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Mo- 
lasses helps  give  the  pie  a  rich-  color.  The  rim  of  a  pumpkin  pie  is 
apt  to  scorch  before  the  filling  is  done.  On  this  account  to  heat  the 
pumpkin  scalding  hot  before  putting  in  the  pie  tins  is  a  good  plan. 
Glaze  the  pie-crust  before  doing  this  way,  and  bake  immediately  that 
the  crust  may  not  grow  sodden. 

Plain  Pumpkin  Pie. — One  quart  of  sifted  pumpkin,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  cornstarch,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  egg ;  sweeten  and  flavor  ac- 
cording to  any  of  the  before-given  rules ;  rub  the  cornstarch  smooth 
in  a  little  of  the  milk.     Bake  in  one  crust.    Very  good. 

Squash  Pie. — Cut  the  squash  in  pieces  and  steam  till  done ;  beat 
smooth  or  rub  through' a  colander.     Hubbard  squash  is  best.     To 

1  quart  of  sifted  squash  add  1  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  1 
cupful  sugar,,!  tablespoonful  of  mixed  powdered  cinnamon,  mace 
and  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  level.  This  will  make  two  large  pies. 
Raise  the  edges  of  the  pastry  a  little  to  prevent  overflow. 

Meringue  Squasb  Pie. — Prepare  squash  as  above.  Take  2  cup- 
fuls  squash,  1  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  1  ciipful  Of  sugar,"  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  well  beaten,  a  pinth  of  salt,  half  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg, 
and  one-third  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  thor- 
oughly, line  a  pan  with  paste  and  fill  it.  Bake  until  done.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff"  froth,  add  half  cupful  of  sugar,  spread  it 
over  the  pies,  and  leave  them  in  oven  until  meringue  is  a  rich  brown. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Half  cupful  sugar,  1  cupful  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
butter,  scald  together;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate, yolks  of 

2  eggs,  3  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Stir  into  the  hot  milk  and  sugar  until  thick  and  smooth.  Flavor  with 
half  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Line  a  pie-plate  with  a  rich  crust  and  bake. 
Fill  this  shell  with  the  mixture.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whipped 
whites  of  the  eggs  sweetened.  Put  in  the  oven  to  set.  Or,  whip 
one-quarter  cup  of  sweet  cream  to  a  froth  and  spread  over  the  choco- 
late mixture. 

Cranberry  Meringue  Pie.— To  make  cranberry  pie  with  eggs : 
Take  1  coffeecupful  of  finely  chopped  cranberries  and  a  cup  of  sugar 
beaten  with  1  whole  egg  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Mix  them  thor- 
oughly, and  turn  into  a  plate  lined  with  pie  crust,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.    Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  2 


360  PIES  AND  PASTRY. 

tkblespoonfuls  of  sugar.  When  the  pie  is  baked,  spread  the  meringue 
roughly  over  the  top  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  moments  to 
brown  lightly. 

Cranberry  Molasses  Pie. — ^To  1  quart  chopped  cranberries  add  2 
cups  of  sugar  and  half  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  boilipg  watejr,  2 
tablespoons  of  cornstarch ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  cook  until  about  as 
thick  as  raspberry  jam  ;  when  cool,  fill  pie-plate  lined  with  rich  crust; 
put  narrow  strips  of  crust  across  the  top  and  bake. 

Crooseberry  Tart  Pie. — Line  a  pie-dish  with  a  rich  crust,  place 
inside  the  dish  a  quart  of  picked  gooseberries  and  plenty  of  sugar, 
add  a  little  water.  Have  a  heavy  rim  to  the  pie-crust,  and  leave  the 
pie  open,  or  finish  with  cross-bars  of  paste  over  the  top. 

Peach  Merlugrue  Pie. — Line  a  deep  earthen  pie-plate  with  a-  rich 
pie-crust  that  has  been  rolled  thin.  Peel  and  slice  enough  peaches 
to  fill  the  plate  very  full,  and  sift  sugar  over  them.  Crack  half  a 
■-dozen  of  the  peadi  stones  and  take  out  the  meat,  blanch,  chop  fine  and 
scatter  among  the  fruit.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  For  the  meringue, 
use  the  white  of  2  eggs,  beaten  into  a  stiff  froth,  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar.  Spread  over  the  peaches  and  return  to  the  oven  and 
brown  lightly.     Delicious. 

Mering^ue  for  Puddings  or  Pies. — Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to 
"a  stiff  froth,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  dried  and 
sifted,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  small  lemon.  Spread  this  meringue 
over  the  pie,  dredge  it  liberally  with  powdered  sugar,  and  put  it  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.  At  the  end  of  10  minutes  it  should  be  a  light, 
even  brown  all  over.  If  it  browns  more  rapidly,  the  oven  is  too  hot, 
and  nothing  is  so  disastrous  to  the  success  of  a  meringue  as  a  too-hot 
oven.  A  properly  baked  meringue  rises  slowly^and  evenly,  and  does 
not  brown  until  it  has  risen,  nor  does  it  fall  flat  when  taken  from  oven. 

Peach  Pie. — Peel,  stone  and  slice  the  peaches.  Line  the  pie-plate, 
with  crust,  and  lay  in  the  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar  over  liberally  in 
proportion  to  their  sweetness.  Allow  3  peach  kernels,  chopped  fifte, 
to  each  pie.  Pour  in  a  very  little  water.  Bake  with  an  upper,  crust, 
or  with  cross-bars  of  paste  across.  A  variation  of  this  is  to  peel, 
halve  and  stone  medium-sized  peaches.  Fill  a  deep  pie-plate  with 
them,  heaping  them  towards  the  centre  of  the  dish  and  sprinkling 
them  liberally  with  sugar.  Cover  with  a  top  crust  and  bake,  Eal 
while  warm. 


PIES  AND  PASTRY.  361 

Peach  Custard  Pie. — Use  1  crust ;  peel  peaches  and  halve  them, 
and  turn  the  hollow  side  upward ;  sweeten  as  you  would  a  peach  pie ; 
take  1  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  beat ;  add  milk 
enough  to  cover  the  peaches;  bake.  Eat  when  partly  cold.  Canned 
peach'bs  will  answer  as  well  as  fresh, 

Merin^rue  Strawberry  Pie. — Make  a  very  rich  pie  crust  and  cut 
it  round  as  a  dinner  plate;  bake  it  light  brown  in  a  quick  oven;  the 
minute  it  is  done  cover  it  with  strawberries  rolled  in  sugar ;  over  the 
berries  spread  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar ;  put  back  in  oven  and  bake  a  golden 
brown.  It  is  delicious  served  hot  or  cold.  Instead  of  the  meringue, 
whip  half  cupful  sweet  cream  and  heap  ovfer  the  top. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pie. — Line  a  pie-plate  with  a  nice  crust.  Peel  and 
slice  sufficient  tomatoes  (half  ripe  ones  are  really  better)  to  fill  the 
pie.  Sprinkle  over  the  top  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  cut  this  in  bits,  and  flavor  with 
lemon.     Cover  with  an  upper  crust. 

Green  Tomato  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  rich  pie  crust  and  sprin- 
kle over  the  bottom  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  ground 
ginger  or  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  two-thirds  cupful 
of  sugar.  Fill  with  green  tomatoes  sliced  thin.  Pour  over  all  half  a 
cupful  of  vinegar,  and  bake  with  a  top  crust. 

Apricot  Pies,  Dried. — Soak  1  cup  of  dried  apricots  over  night ; 
in  the  morning-cool  the  apricots,  and  sweeten  as  for  sauce ;  let  it 
cool.  Bake  with  2  crusts ;  have  the  pie  quite  moist.  This  makes 
one  medium-sized  pie.  A  tart  pie  can  be  made  by  using  an  under 
crust  and  putting  cross  bars  of  pastry  over  the  top  of  the  pie. 

Clierry  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  plain  paste,  and  brush 
the  latter  over  with  white  of  egg»  to  prevent  soaking.  Fill  the  dish 
nearly  full  of  pitted  cherries,  and  over  them  spread  evenly  from  a  half 
to  a  whole  cupful  of  sugar,  according  to  the  size  of  the  dish  and  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit.     Cover  carefully  after  dredging  with  flour. 

Tarts  and  Cheese  Oakes. 

Tart  Shells. — Line  small  tins  or  patty  pans  with  nice  pie  or  puff 
paste.  Prick  two  or  three  times  with  a  fork  to  prevent  blistering. 
Glaze  according  to  recipe;  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar.  Bake 
and  put  away.    Ends  of  paste  left  from  pie-making  may  be  used  in 


36^  PIES  And  pastry. 

this  fashion.    They  are  always  convenient  to  have  on  Hand  for  an 
emergency,  since  filling  with  jelly  or  preserved  fruit  makes  a  daftltiy  ' 
iish  for  unexpected  guests. 

Tart  Paste. — One  cupful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  white  sugar,  1 
white  of  an  egg,  3  tablespoonfuls  water,  flour  to  roll  out.  They  may 
be  baked  in  gem  pans.  The  shells  will  keep  quite  a  while  in  a  close 
tin  box.    They  may  be  heated  for  a  moment  in  the  oven. 

Chocolate  Tarts.— Line  patty  tins  with  puff  paste  and  bake,  then 
fill  with  the  following  mixture :  One~pint  of  boiling  milk,  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  cold  water,  10  ounces  of  grated 
chocolate,  1  ounce  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  but; 
ter.     Cook  until  it  thickens,  then  cool. 

Cocoauut  Tarts. — Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  sugar  in  half  a  pint 
of  water;  add  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  and  stir  over  the  fire  for 
5  minutes.  Let  cool.  Add  the  beaten  yolk  and  the  white  of  1  egg. 
Line  little  tart  pans  with  puff  paste ;  fill  with  the  mixture  and  bake. 

Berry  Tarts. — Line  small  patty  pans  with  rich  crUst  and  filling 
with  raspberries,  blackberries,  whortleberries,  or  other  berries,  Heap" 
up  high  in  the  centre  ;  sprinkle  freely  with  powdered  sugar ;  wet  the 
edges  of  the  paste  with  ice  water;  lay  on  a  thin  crust  of  light  puff 
paste;  press  the  edges  together,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  trim  off 
evenly ;  press  around  the  base  of  the  fruit  about  a  fourth  of  an  inch 
from  the  edge  of  the  pan,  so  as  to  push  the  fruit  up  in  a  cone  in  the 
centre,  when  the  juice  will  run  afound  the  groove  formed  by  pressing. 
Brush  crust  of  each  tart  over  with  ice  water  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Strawberry  Tarts.-^Line  little  tart-pans  with  delicate  puff  paste, 
fill  with  strawberry  jam,  sprinkle  the  tops  with  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
very  quick  oven.  Let  cool  and  pile  whipped  cream  over  the  top. 
Arrange  on  a  large,  flat  dish  and  set  on  the  luncheon  or  tea  table. 

Cranberry  Tartlets. — Line  patty  pans  with  paste,  fill  with  cran-_ 
berry  sauce  and  bake.     When  done,  spread  over  the  top  a  meringue 
formed  by  beating  the  white  bf  1  egg  with  1  tablespoon  of  pulverized 
sugar  and  return  to  the  oven  to^brown. 

Apple  Tarts. — Line  patty  pans  with  nice  pastry.  Bake ;  fill  with 
sifted,  sweetened  apple  sauce.  Dust  powdered  sugar  over  the  top  or 
heap  them  with  whipped  cream. 

Grandmother's  Apple  Tarts.— Line  round  patties  with  rich 
paste.    In  each  place  the  half  of  a  peeled,  tart  apple,  drop  a  tea- 


PIES  AND  PASTRY.  36 

spoonful  of,  cream,  a  bit  of  butter  and  as  much  sugar  as  it  will  hoi 
in  the  centre.  Grate  nutmeg  over  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  th 
apples  are  done. 

Whipped  Cream  Tarts. — Sweeten  and  flavor  the  cream.  Put  i: 
puff  paste  tart  shells  with  a  dot  of  currant  jelly  on  each. 

Baisln  Tarts. — ^Take  pie  crust  and  cut  out  with  scalloped  cutter 
use  two  crusts  to  each  tart.  For  filling,,  1  cupful  chopped  raisin: 
half  cup  of  sugar. 

Green  Gage  Tartlets. — Choose  fine  and  sound,  but  not  overrip( 
gages,  and  take  out  the  stones  without  entirely  dividing  the  fruit ;  le 
them  simmer  in  syrup  for  about  5  minutes  and  let  cool.  Make  som 
good  short  pastry,  roll  it  out  very  thinly,  stamp  it  into  rounds  with 
fluted  cutter  which  is  half  an  inch  larger  in  diameter  than  the  tartle 
moulds ;  then  line  the  moulds  with  the  rounds.  Drain  the  gages,  se 
them  closely  together  in  the  moulds,  and  bake  in  a  well-heated  over 
When  baked,  brush  the  edges  of  the  pastry  with  syrup,  and  let  thet 
dry  in  the  oven  for  a  minute.  Boil  the  syrup  in  which  the  gage 
were  cooked  till  it  is  thick.  When  cold  pour  a  little  into  each  tartlt 
and  serve.     Delicious. 

Maids  of  Honor. — One  cupful  of  sour  milk,  1  cupful  sweet  mill 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of 
lemon,  and  1  small  cupful  of  white  sugar.  Put  both  kinds  of  milk  i 
a  double  boiler,  or  in  one  dish,  set  in  another  of  boiling  water  and  Ic 
become  sufficiently  heated  to  set  the  curd.  Strain  off  the  milk,  ru 
the  curd  through  a  colander,  stir  the  curd,  butter,  sugar,  beaten  egg 
and  lemon  all  together.  Line  patty  pans  with  rich  paste,  and  fill  wit 
the  mixture.  Bake  until  firm  in  the  centre,  which  will  take  from  1' 
to  15  minutes. 

Gheese  Cakes. — ^Take  1  cup  of  curd,  made  by  straining  loppere 
milk  through  a  cheese-cloth,  having  first  brought  the  milk  to  blooi 
heat;  mix  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  th 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream.  Mix  over  the  fire  unti 
it  thickens  up,  then  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose,  and  when  cool  fil 
little  pans  lined  with  rich  pastry,  as  for  tarts. 

Cocoanut  Cheese  Cakes. — Make  as  above,  with  the  addition  of 
small  cupful  of  desiciSSted  cocoanut  in  the  filling. 


Make  cake  by  a  reliable  recipe  and 
follow  it  closely.  Sift  the  flour  before  mea- 
suring, again  with  the  baking  powder,  and 
the  same  with  cream  of  tartar.  In  measur- 
ing a  half  spoon,  fill  level  full,  smoothing 
off  with  a  knife;  then  lengthwise,  so  as  to 
have  it  exact.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  yolks  of 
eggs,  beating  thoroughly.  Beat  the  egg  whites  separately,  adding 
after  all -the  flour  is  stirred  in.  Fruit,  for  all  nice  cakes,  should  be 
picked,  washed  and  dried,  the  day  before  making.  Dust  with  flour 
before  using,  and  mix  with  the  hand  till  each  is  powdered,  so  that 
they  will  mix  evenly  through  the  dough.  Any  ^^^  or  nuts  not 
floured  will  sink  to  tiie  Bottom.  The  recipe  usually  gives  the  time, 
if  long  beating  is  required.  Some  plain  tea-cakes  and  gingerbread 
can  be  made  quickly.  Line  pans  with  buttered  paper;  several  thick- 
nesses for  large  cakes.  The  oven  should  be  just  right  for  the  parti- 
cular kind  of  cake  you  are  baking.  Layer  cakes,  sponge,  and  most 
small  cakes  need  a  quick  oven.     Rich  cakes  must  bake  slowly. 

Always  test  the  oven.  If  the  hand  can  bear  the!  heat  20  or  25 
seconds,  it  is  in  good  order.  Layer  cakes  take  20  minutes  each  tff 
bake.  Loaf  cakes  from  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  size  and  kind.  To  measure  accurately  a  teaspoonful  of  dry 
material,  take  up  a  heaping  spoonful  of  sifted  material  and  shake  it 
lightly  until  it  is  rounded  above  the  surface  enough  to  correspond 
exactly  with  the  concave  surface.  An  even  or  scant  teaspoonful 
means  a  spoon  filled  lightly,  and  leveled  with  a  knife  to  the  surface 
of  the  spoon,  while  a  heaping  spoonful  means  all  the  spoon  will  hold 
of  any  sifted  material.  In  using  solids,  especially  butter  or  lard,  a 
knife  should  be  employed  to  deftly  even  off  'the  superfluous  amount. 
An  "even"  cupful  of  any  thing  means  a  cup  full  to  the  brim,  so  full 
that  only  the  steadiest  hand  can  carry  it  without  spilling.  A  "  brim- 
ming"  cupful,  as  its  name  indicates,  is  a  cup  running  over.  A  scant 
cupful  lacks  a  quarter  or  half  inch  of  reaching  the  top  of  the  measure, 
while  a  solid  cupful  is  something  packed  as  firmly  as  possible. 
364 


CAKES.  365 

Do  not  measure  the  butter  loosely,  but  pack  it  in  solid,  and  have 
exact  measure ;  unless  the  rule  calls  for  a  heaping  cup  of  flour  or  sugar, 
take  a  knife  and  draw  across  the  top  of  the  cup,  leaving  it  level  full. 
A  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  means  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  after 
melting,  while  a  tablespoonful  of  bujter  melted,  means  a  tablespoonful 
measured  before  melting.  Sugar,  salt,  flour,  soda,  spices,  and  mustard, 
should  always  be  ^fted  or  stirred  up  lightly  before  measuring,  as  when 
packed  they  are  compressed  to  much-less  than  their  rightful  bulk. 

Grease  the  cake  tins  with  fresh  lard  (for  cake  made  with  butter — 
with  butter  if  for  sponge  cake) ;  dredge  over  a  little  flour,  and  then 
fihake  off  all  that  will  come  off  It  is  only  rich  cakes  that  require 
the  tins  in  which  they  are  baked  to  be  lined  with  buttered  paper.  Be 
careful  not  only  to  butter  the  paper  to  prevent  it  from  adhering  to  the 
cake,  but  also  to  butter  the  tin  to  prevent  the  paper  from  sticking  to ' 
it.  An  earthen  basin  is  best  for  beating  eggs  or  cake  mixture.  Cake 
should  be  beaten  with  a  wooden  spoon.  A  wooden  spoon  is  about 
the  best,  as  the  handle  will  not  bend  like  a  metal  one.  It  takes  a 
great  deal  of  strength  for  the  final  beating,  but  unless  it  is  given  the 
texture  of  the  cake  will  be  coarse.  All  loaf  cakes  should  be  baked 
in  square -tins  rather  than  round,  and  the  mixture  should  not  reach 
the  top  by  about  three -fourths  of  an  inch,  to  allow  for  raising. 

The  temperature  of  the  oven  is  a  very  important  factor.  It  should 
not  be  too  hot  at  first,  or  the  outside  will  bake  so  much  sooner  than 
the  inside,  as  to  spoil  the  cake.  Neither  should  it  be  too  cold,  or 
the  cake  will  fall  at  once.  If  water  dropped  on  the  bottom  hisses,  it 
is  hot  enough  for  baking.  If  the  cake  shows  a  ten- 
dency to  brown  too  quickly  on  the  top,  cover  it  with 
a  sheet  of  brown  paper;  if,  on  the  contrary,  the 
bottom  cooks  too  rapidly,  set  the  oven  grate  beneath 
it.  Have  the  fire  steady,  and  do  not  shake  the 
stove  or  open  the  oven  any  oftener  than  is  neces- 
sary. If  sponge  cake  is  mixed  with  cold  water  it 
will  be  yellow,  but  if  boiling  hot  water  be  used  for 
mixing,  the  cake  will  be  white.  At  any  time  when^J  Siogar  Box. 
the  cook  requires  the  white  of  an  egg  and  not  the  yolk,  break,  the 
shell  carefully  and  drop  the  untouched  yolk  into  a  cup  of  cojd  water. 
Here  it  will  keep  for  several  days  if  necessary,  to  be  used  when  re- 
quired.   To  make  whites  of  eggs  beat  quickly,  put  in  a  small  pinch 


see  CAKES. 

of  salt.  When  making;  cake  in  warm  weather,  place  the  eggs  in  cold 
water  a  few  minutes  before  you  beat  them.  This  simple  hint  causes 
eggs  to  froth  well  on  the  hottest  day. 

The  only  secret  of  good  cake  is  fine-grained  sugar,  and  a  thorough 
mixing  of  ingredients.  With  sour  milk  or  molasses  use  soda  instead 
of  baking  powder,  -In  cooking  it  is  well  to  remember  that  soda 
should  never  be  dissolved  in  hot  water,  because  if  it  is  some  of  the 
gases  would  then  be  liberated  and  wasted,  and  a  greater  amount  of 
soda  would  be  needed  to  makie  good  this  waste  than  if  the  soda  were 
dissolved  in  cold  Water,  Gakes  calling  for  milk  can:  be  made  with 
the  same  amount  of  water,  with  better  success.  The  cake  will  be 
lighter  and  more  spongy.  If  the  molasses  and  butter  to  be  used 
in  gingerbread  be  heated  together  to  almost  the  boiling  point,  before 
being  stirred  in  with  the  other  ingredients,  the  cake  will  be  improved. 
Heat  the  knife  before  cutting  warm  bread  or  cake.  To  test  nutmegs, 
prick  with  a  pin,  and  if  they  are  good  the  oil  will  instantly  spread 
around  the  puncture.  If  desired  to  ice  a  logf  cake,  it  is  better  to  leave 
it  till  the  next  day,  and  then  apply  to  the  bottom  instead  of  the  top. 
When  a  cake  tin  is  linedwith'paper,itis  well  to  know  how  t&  re- 
move the  paper  from  the  cake,  when  cooked,  without  damaging  its 
appearance.  Turn  the  cake  from  the  tin  on  to  a  sieve,  and  when  it 
has  partly  cooled  turn  the  cake  bottom  upwards,  and  brush  the 
paper  with  chilled  water  till  it  is  thoroughly-damp,  when  the  paper 
can  easily  be  peeled  off.  If,  after  a  cake  has  been  baked,  it  persists  in 
.  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  don't  despair.  Merely  turn  the 
pan  upside  down  and  press  close  to  it  a  very  wet  cloth.  This  will 
bring  the  cake  out  in  a  hurry.  A  dish  of  water  placed  in  a  hot  oven 
where,  pies,  cakes  or  puddings  are  being  baked,  will  prevent  them- 
from  scorching.  Shake  and  jar  a  tin  after  the  cake  batter  is  in.  This 
expels  the  bubbles  of  air,  and  lessens  the  danger  of  falling.  A  cake 
pan  with  a  tube  bakes  a  large  loaf  of  cake  more  uniformly.  Cake 
tins  should  be  gently  warmed  in  cold  weather  before  the  cake  batter 
is  put  in.  Yolks  of  eggs,  when  not  used  in  cakes,  may  be  utilized  in 
various  ways,  such  as  salad  dressings,  and  also  in  gold  cake.  Butter 
that  is  too  salt  should  be  washed  in  cold  water  two  or  three  times 
before  using  it  in  cake.  Cake  materials  should  be  gotten  together  in 
cold  weather  some  time  before  they  are  to  be  used,  and  kept  in  a 
warm  place  that  they  may  be  jnixcd  mor^  easily. 


CAKES.  367 

Substitute  for  Brandy. — ^As  a  substitute  for  brandy  or  wine  in 
dark  fruit  cake,  the  same  amount  of  clear,  very  strong  coffee  or  boiled 
sweet  cider  can  be  used.  Coffee  is  really  preferable.  The  same 
amount  of  rosewater,  or  lemon  juice,  or  1  or  2  extra  egg  yolks  will 
take  the  place  of  wine. 

Testing'  the  Cake. — Most  cooks  test  a  cake  with'  a  broom  splint  j 
put  it  in  quickly,  and  if  it  comes  out  dry  and  cleah  the  cake  is  done. 
If  cleanliness  is  desirable,  however,  it  might  be  suggested  that  a  very 
good  plan  is  to  keep  a  knitting  needle  in  the  kitchen-table  drawer  for 
testing  cakes.  A  surer  way  of  testing  cake  in  the  oven  is  to  draw  it 
to  the  edge  of  the  oven,  and  put  the  ear  close  to  it,  and  when  it  is 
not  sufficiently  baked  a  slight  sputtering  noise  will  be  heard,  but  when 
thoroughly  done  there  will  be  no  sound. 

To  Sweeten  Butter. — If  you  have  butter  that  is  not  entirely 
sweet,  put  it  in  a  porcelain  dish,  with  a  little  salt  and  a  tiny  piece  of 
soda^place  over  a  fire  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Turn  it  into  a  stone  jar 
and  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  The  butter  will  be  found  perfectly  sweet 
and  not  too  salt  for  cooking.  The  impurities  will  settle  in  the  bottom 
of  the  jar.  '~ 

To  Keep  Fruit  Cake  Fresh.. — The  secret  of  keeping  any  fruit 
cake  fresh  and  nice  for  over  a  year  is  to  wrap  the  loaves  in  a  well- 
buttered  white  paper,  and  tie  them  up,  and  place  in  a  stone  jar  and 
cover.  Once  in  a  whileit  is  a  good  plan  to  open  the  jar  and  leave  un- 
covered for  5  or  10  minutfes.  Fruit  cake,  if  it  is  to  be  kept  any  length 
of  time  before  eating— and  a  good  fruit  cake  is  always  improved  by 
so  doing — should  be  iced  as  it  is  needed.  A  couple  of  apples  or  a 
slice  of  moist  bread  put  in  cake-box  will  keep  cake  from- getting  dry. 

Fruits  for  Oakes. 

A  very  good  way  to  stone  raisins  is  to  have  a  glass  of  cold  water 
beside  one.  Dip  the  fingers  into  it,  and  the  seed  will  easily  drop 
off  from  them.  Or,  have  ■  a  dish  of  flour  near  at  hand  and  dip  the 
fingers  into  it  often.  It  will  prevent  the  seeds  from  sticking  to  one's 
fingers.  To  make  raisins  stone  more  easily,  take  them  from  the  stems, 
put  in  a  bowl,  pour  boiling  water  over,  let  stand  2  or  3  minutes  and 
drain.  The  raisins  -will  then  seed  very  readily.  Raisins  for  cake 
may  be  boiled  half  an  hour  in  a  little  water,  dried  in  the  oven.  This 
will  prevent  their  being  tough  and  tearing  the  cake  in  cuttift]). 


368  CAKES. 

Watermelon  Rinds  make  an  excellent  substitute  for  citron.  Cook 
rich  and  thick  with  plenty  of  sugar ^and  can.  When  ready  to  use 
take  out  a  little,  dry  in  oven  and  add  to  dake,  pudding  or  pie.  Dates 
are  usually  less  expensive  than  raisins,  but  housekeepers  seem  seldom 
to  appreciate  their  value  as  a  substitute  for  the  latter.  A  box  of 
dates,  if  put  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  will  keep  well,  and  assist  greatly  in 
varying  the  list  of  cakes,  puddings,  and  the  like.  Even  a  single 
pound  of  the  article  will  give  its  rich,  distinctive  flavor  to  several  com- 
pounds that,  were  raisins  used,  would  be  comparatively  commonplace. 
'  Almonds'  to  Blanch. — Turn  boiling  water  over  them.  Let  stand 
a  few  minutes,  then  drain  aind  plunge  in  cold  water.  The  skins  will 
then  come  off  easily.  If  not,  repeat  the  operation.  Rub  the  skins 
off  with  a  dry  cloth.  Put  on  a  paper  in  the  open  oven  to  dry.  If 
they  are  to  be  rubbed  to  a  paste,  rub  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  little 
rosewater  to  prevent  oiling,  a  little  loaf  sugar,  1  lump  to  3  or  4 
almonds  may  be  used  for  the  same  purpose.  Lemons  may  be  kept 
fresh  by  putting  in  a  jar  of  cold  water.     Change  the  water  frequently. 

Home-made  Flavoring  Extracts. 

The  cdWimon  essence  of  orange,  lemon  and  vanilla  of  superior 
quality  can  be  easily  and  inexpensively  made.  It  is  best  to  make  a 
year's  supply  at  once.  Orajige  essences  should  be  prepared  when 
the  sweet,  red-skinned  Valencia  orange  is  abundant.  Take  the  outer 
red  orange  skin  of  this  fruit  and  scrape  off  any  of  the  ihner  white 
skin  that  may  adhere.  Cut  the  orange  skin  into  strips.  Put  it  in  a 
quart  bottle  and  cover  it  with  common  good  alcohol,  or  what  is 
known  to  chemists  as  "  90  per  cent,  alcohol."  Fill  up  the  bottle  with 
peel  and  alcohol,  as  convenient,  till  it  isfuU,  and  cork  it  tightly.'  Put 
the  bottles  thus  filled  on  a  high  shelf  in  the  kitchen,  or  in  some 
equally  warm  place,  for  at  least  six  months — that  is,  let  it  alone.  At 
the  end  of  this  time  strain  off  a  tablespoonful  or  more,  flavor  as  it  is 
needed.  It  will  be  better  at  the  end  of  a  year,  and  will  keep  indefinitely. 

Make  lemon  extract,  in  exactly  the  same  way,  from  the  peel  of 
the  thin-skinned  Messina  lemons.  The  thick-skinned  Malaga  lemons 
are  of  no  use  for  this  purpose.  Never  use  the  juice  of  the  lemon  or 
orange  in  these  essences.  Another  way  is  to  grate  off  the  yellow 
part  or  "zest,"  and  put  this  in  a  glass  ean  or  bottle  and  cover  with 
alcohol.     Let  stand  a  couple  of  weeks  and  then  strain.    A  fine  ex- 


CAKES, 


869 


tract  is  aecured  in  this  way.  A  word  as  to  proportions — ^for  the  skin 
of  10  oranges,  carefully  grated,  a  quart  of  alcohol  will  be  needed. 
Be  /ery  careful  that  only  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind  is  grated  off,  as 
the  inner  skin  is  worse  than  useless.  If  necessary  add  half  ounce  of 
oil  of  orange  or  lemon,  as  the  case  may  be. 

The  best  vanilla  essence  is  made  of  the  genuine  vanilla  bean,  a 
costly  article,  and  therefore  the  tonka  bean  is  frequently  substituted 
for  it.  From  half  to  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  beans  should  be 
cut  in  fine  pieces  and  put  in  a  quart  bottle  of  alcohol  of  the  90  per 
cent,  quality  for  essence.  This  bottle  should  be  left  from  seven 
months  to  a  year  before  its  contents  are  ready  for  use.  Or  half  pint 
of  alcohol  and  4  vanilla  beans  broken  in  bits.    Let  stand  a  week  or  so. 

Table  of  Proportions. 

One  teaspoonful  soda  to  1  cupful  molasses;  1  teaspoonful  soda  to 
1  pint  sour  milk;  3  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder 
to  1  quart  flour;  one-half  cupful  yeast  or  one- 
quarter  cake  compressed  yeast  to  1  pint  liquid; 
1  teaspoonful  extract  to  1  loaf  plain  cake ;  1  tea- 
spoonful salt  to  2  quarts  flour;  1  teaspoonful  salt 
to  1  quart  soup;  1  scant  cupful  of  liquid  to  2 
full  cupfuls  of  flour  for  bread ;  1  scant  cupful  of 
liquid  to  2  full  cupfuls  of  flour  for  muffins ;  1  scant 
cupful  of  liquid  to  1  full  cupful  of  flour  for  bat- 
ters ;  1  quart  water  to  each  pound  meat  and  bone 
for  soup  stock ;  4  peppercorns,  4  cloves,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  mixed  herbs  for  each  quart  of  water 
for  soup^  stock. 

Time  Table  for  Baking, 

Biscuit,  10  to  20  minutes;  bread,  brick < 
loaf,  40  to  60  minutes ;  cake,  plain,  20  to  40 
minutes;  cake,  sponge,  45  to  60  minutes; 
chickens,  3  to  4  pounds,  1  to  1  ^  hours ; 
cookies,  10  to  15  minutes;  gingerbread,  20 
to  30  minutes;  Graham  gems,  30  minutes; 
pudding,  bread,  rice  and  tapioca,  1  hour; 
pudding,  plum,  2  to  3  hours ;  rolls,  10  to  15 
minutes. 

COOK— 24 


Measuring'  Ct-lass. 


Graduated  Measura 


370 


CAKES. 


Tables  of  Weights  and  Measures. 


Sixty  drops  of  any  thin  liquid  are 
equal  to  i  teaspoonful,  or  t  drachm. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  to  i  dessertspoon- 
ful. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid  equal 
I  tablespoonful. 

Four.tablespooilfuls  of  liquid  equal 
one-half  gill. 

,  Four  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  equal 
1  wineglassful. 

One  tablespoonful  of  liquid  equals 
oae-half  ounce. 

Four  eyen  teaspoonfuls  liquid  equal 
I  even  tablespoonful. 

A  medium-sized  teaspoon  contains 
about  a  drachm. 

Sixteen  tablespoonfuls  liquid  equal 
I  cupful.    .,      y^-        . 
■     One  pint  of  liquid  equals  i  pound. 

Two  gills  of  liquid  equal  one-half^int. 

One  kitchen  cupful  equals  oile-half 
pint. 

Three  even  teaspoonfuls  dry  material 
equal  1- even  tablespoonful. 

Twelve  tablespoonfuls  dry  material 
equal  i  cupful. 

Two  cupfiils  equal  i  pint. 

Four  cupfuls  equal  i  quart    , 

Four  cupfuls  flour  equal  i  quart  or  i 
pound. 

Two  cupfuls  solid  butter  equal  i 
pound. 

Two  cupfuls  granulated  sugar  equal 
I  pound. 

Two  and  a  half  cupfuls  powdered 
sugar  equal  i  pound. 

One  pint  milk  or  water  equals  i 
pound.  ,        ■ 

One  dozen  eggs  should  weigh  i}4 
pounds. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour  eqiials  I 
pound. 

Four  cupfuls  of  flour  equal  i  pound. 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour  equals 
6ne-half  ounce. 

Three  cupfuls  of  commeal  equal  i 
pound. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  commeal 
equal  one  pound.  -  ; 

One  cupful  of  butter  equals  one-half 
,  pound.  , 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter  equals  i 
aunce. 


One  pint  of  butter  equals  i  pound. 
One  pint  of  chopped  suet  equals  I 
pound. 

Ten  eggs  equal  i  pound. 

One  pmt  of  gifanulated  sugar  equals 

1  pound. 

One  pint  of  brown  sugar  equals  ij 
ounces. 

Two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  equal  i  pound. 

Sixteen  drams  equal  i  ounce. 

SixteeH  ounces  equal  i  pound. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  ounces. 
■  One  kitchen  cup,  half  pint. 

One  pound  loaf  sugar  (broken)  to  i 
quart. 

Twelve  small  eggs  without  the  shells 
weigh  I  pound. 

Ten  medium  eggs  without  the  shells 
weigh  I  pound. 

Nine  large  eggs  without  the  shells 
weigh  I  pound. 

An  ordinary  egg  weighs  from  iX  ^ 

2  ounces. 

A  duck?s  egg  weighs  from  2  to  3 
ounces. 

A  turkey's  egg  weighs  from  three  to 
four  ounces. 

A  goose  egg  weighs  from  4  to  6 
ounces. 

Two  ounces  unmelted  butter  equal 
in,  size  an  ordinary  egg. 

Two  tablespoons  liquid  weigh  i 
ounce. 

Two  heaping  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar  weigh  i  ounce. 

.  Two  heaping  tablespoons  granulated 
sugar  weigh  i  ounce. 

Two  rounded  tablespoons,  of  flour 
weigh  I  ounce. 

Sugar,  flour,  butter,  lard,  drippings, 
currants,  raisins,  rice  and  cornstarch  are 
measured  by  the  roufidmg  spoonful. 

Salt,  pepper  and  spices  by  the  level 
spoonful.  - 

Skim  milk  is  heavier  than  whole 
milk  and  cream  -is  lighter  than  either, 
while  pure  milk  is  3  per  cent,  heavier 
than  water. 

Spices.^-t-wo  saltspoonfuls  make  t 
afl;er-dinner  coffeespoon ;  2  cofFeespoon« 
fuls  maJke  i  teaspoonful ;  a  dash  of  pep 
^r  equals  quarter  saltspoonfiiL 


CAKES.  371 

Frostings. 

Flour  lightly  dfedged  over  a  loaf  of  cake  before  icing  it  prevents 
the  spreading  and  running  off  of  the  latter.  Cake  should  be  nearly^ 
if  not  quite  cold,  before  attempting  to  frost  it.  One  teaspoonfiii  o^ 
lemon  juice  will  help  keep  frosting  from  crumbling.  A  teaspoonful 
of  cream  also  has  a  softening  effect.  To  tint  frosting,  lemon  juice 
will  whiten  it,  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange  strained  through  a  cloth 
will  give  it  a  yellow  tint,  and  strawberry  or  cranberry  juice  will  pro- 
duce a  pretty  shade  of  pink.  Heavy  frosting  is  secured  by  letting 
one  coating  dry  and  then  applying  another. 

Ornamental  Frosting  can  be  done  by  drawing  one  of  the  small 
glass  syringes  full  of  the  icing  and  arrange  it  in  any  design  you  like. 
Another  way  is  to  fill  a  cone  of  thick  white  paper  and  let  the  icing 
run  through,  but  it  is  not  as  successful  as  the  other  way.  Firsty  give 
the  cake  a  coating  of  stiff  frosting.  Smooth  the  top  carefully  and 
set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  For  the  ornamental  figures  beat 
the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  powdered  sugar  until 
quite  stiff,  but  not  so  stiff  as  the  first  frosting.  Cut  out  designs  in 
paper  and  outline  them  on  the  top  of  the  cake  by  pricking  the  frost- 
ing with  a  large  needle.  If  the  design  is  elaborate  make  three  cornu- 
copias of  writing  paper,  cut  off  the  small  ends,  leaving  room  to  press 
the  frosting  through.  Graduate  the  size  of  the  three  apertures.  Fill 
the  three  cornucopias  with  the  frosting,  fold  the  paper  over  the  top 
and  use  the  thumbs  to  press  the  frosting  through  the  lower  opening. 
If  it  does  not  keep  its  shape,  the  frosting  is  not  thick  enough,  and 
more  sugar  must  be  added.  Use  the  cornucopia  with  the  largest 
opening  for  the  largest  part  of  the  pattern. 

Cocliineal  Goloringr. — One  drachm  of  cream  tartar,  1  drachm 
saleratus,  1  drachm  of  alum,  1  drachm  cochineal.  Mix  in  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  ofxboiling  water.  Bottle  and  cork  for  use.  Make  the 
wished-for  shade  by  using  more  or  less  of  the  preparation.  A  por- 
tion of  the  cake  batter  may  be  colored  to  suit  and  arranged  in  alter- 
nate layers.     Red  sugar  may  also  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Frosting. — Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  till  it  is  very  dry,  then  add 
gradually  10  ounces  of  pulverized  white  sugar.  Dredge  flour  ovei 
the  top  of  the  cake  and  wipe  it  off,  to  make  the  frosting  adhere.  Put 
it  over  Svith  a  broad-bladed  knife;  it  should  be 'put  on  quite  thick. 


872  CAKES. 

When  this  coating  is  dry,  dilute  the  remainder  in  your  dish  with  a 
little  rose  water  and  put  another  coating  over  the  top,  which  will  have 
a  glossy  appearance.  If  the  first  coating  of  frosting  is  inclined  to 
••  run,"  put  a  rim  of  stiff  paper  around  the  sides  of  the  loaf  to  retain 
it  in  place  until  it  hardens.  A'  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  is  some- 
times added,  but  it  makes  the  frosting  liable  to  crumble.        — 

Yellow  Frosting. — For  one  loaf  of  cake  use  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
and  without  previously  beating  thicken  them  with  powdered  sugar, 
quite  stiff,  and  apply  while  cake  is  hot.  The  rule  for  quantity  of 
sugar  cannot  be  determined,  as  some  eggs  are  larger  than  others. 
Flavor  with  orange. 

]Pln]£  Frosting. — Make  a  white  frosting  and  give  the  desired 
shade  of  pink  by  adding  a  drop  or  two  of  cochineal  color.  Some 
cooks  use  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  the  aniline  to  be  bought  at  the 
drug  stores.  The  three  shades,  white,  pink  and  yellow,  are  very 
pretty  in  a  ribbon  cake.  OncL  other  shade  may  be  given  by  using 
chocolate  frosting  also. 

Cocoanut  Frosting. — Stir  a  quantity  of  cocoanut,  fresh  grated, 
or  desiccatedT^nto  ordinary  white  frosting. 

Confectioners'  Frosting. — Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  an  instant, 
then  stir  in  the  sugar  till  about  the  consistency  of  Indian  meal  pud- 
ding or  mush  ;  flavor  with  anything  liked.  A  little  strawberry  may 
be  added  to  make  it  pink,  or  grate  a  little  chocolate  in ;  when  the 
cake  is  cold,  or  nearly  so,  spread  on  the  frosting  with  a  broad,  thin- 
bladed  knife ;  if  there  is  not  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sugar  the  frost- 
ing will  run. 

Boiled  Frosting. — One  cupful  of  white  sugar  boiled  with  one- 
half  cup  of  water  until  it  will  wax  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Pour  this  over  the  well-beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Stir  briskly  until  it  is 
cool  enough  to  thicken.  After  the  top  of  the  cake  has  been  covered, 
stir  in  a  littlfe  fine  dry  sugar  before  frosting  the  sides.  The  cake 
should  be  cold.     Put  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  dry. 

Soft  Icing. — Ten  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  rose.  Mix  the  sugar  and  egg  together 
in  a  bowl  by  merely  stirring.  Spread  this  semi-transparent  mixture 
over  the  cake.  Put  a  rim  of  paper  around  the  cake  to  keep  the  frost- 
ing in  place  until  dry.  Icing  is  more  tender  made  in  this  way  than 
when  the  whites  are  beaten  first. 


CAKES.  373 

Boiled  Icing. — One  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  one-half 
cup  water,  come  to  a  boil,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  until  it  drops  heavy 
and  forms  threads ;  then  pour  on  the  whites  of  2  eggs.  Add  extract 
of  orange,  lemon  or  rose,  and  beattill  almost  cold ;  spread  and  put 
in  a  jar  or  box  for  2  days,  when  it  will  melt  in  your  mouth. 

liemon  Icing. — Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs ;  whip  in  1  j^  pound 
of  powdered  sugar,  beat  smooth ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  extract;  beat  20  minutes;  put  on  the  cake  in  large 
spoonfuls,  and  smooth  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water. 

liCmon  Icing,  Eggless. — Two  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  the 
strained  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon.  Thicken  with  confectioners' 
sugar  and  spread  on  cake. 

Almond  Icing. — A  delicious  addition  to  a  loaf  of  white  cake. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pow- 
dered to  a  paste.  Flavor  with  orange  flower  water,  rose  water  or  a 
few  drops  of  almond  extract.-' 

Coffee  IcLag,  Eggless.— -All  that  is  required  for  this  excellent 
finish  is  half  a  cupful  of  strong  coffee,  into  which  is  stirred  about  as 
much  pulverized  sugar  as  it  will  take  up.  Beat  well  and  spread  wiA 
a  knife  while  the  cake  is  slightly  warm.  / 

Maple  Sugar  Icing,  Elggless. — Put  a  cupful  of  dry  maple  sugar 
and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet,  thick  cream  on  the  stove,  and  when  the 
sugar  is  melted  let  it  boil  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water.  Cool  it 
A  little,  then  spread  on  the  cake. 

Wedding  Cake  Frosttng. — Whites  of  3  eggs  and  2  pounds  of 
confectioners'  sugar,  not  powdered,  for  each  10-pound  loaf  of  cake. 
Put  eggs  and  sugar  together  into  a  deep  bowl  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
rose  water.  Be  sure  the  sugar  is  free  from  lumps,  and  beat  with  stout 
wire  beater  until  you  can  turn  the  bowl  upside  down.  Then  spread 
on  warm  cake,  about  I  inch  thick,  and  dry  in  a  cool  oven.  Crease 
with  broad  knife  when  partly  cool,  to  be  able  to  cut  without  breaking. 
Brush  cake  over  with  unbeaten  whites  before  laying  frosting  on,  so  it 
will  stick.  Take  a  little  of  the  icing  and  lay  it  aside  for  qrnamenting 
afterward.  When  the  cake  comes  out  of  the  oven,  spread  smoothly 
over  it  with  a  knife  and  dry  it  at  once  in  a  cool  oven.  To  ornament 
the  cake  with  it,  make  a  cone  of  stiff  writing  paper  and  squeeze  th* 
icing  through  it  so  as  to  form  leaves,  beading  or  letters,  •  It  required 


374 


CAKES. 


nicety  and  care  to  do  it  with  success.     If  wedding  cake  is  to  be  kept 
a  long  time,  do  not  frost  what  is  laid  away  until  ready  to  use. 

Delmonico  Weddingr  Cake. — -One  pound  of  butter,  2  pounds 

of  brown  sugar,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of 
flour,  1  cupful  dark  mo- 
lasses, 10  eggs,  1  pound 
of  blanched  almonds,  3 
pounds  raisins,  2  pounds 
currants,  1  pound  cit- 
ron, 1  pound  figs,  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon, 2  gills  rose  water, 
1  tablespoonful  ground 
cloves.  Stone  the  rais- 
ins, wash  and  dry  thor- 
oughly the  currants, 
shred  the  citron,  cut  up 
the  figs  in  small  pieces 
and  put  all  together  in 
a  wooden  bowl  and 
chop  fine.  Chop  and 
add  the  almonds.  Then  sprinkle  and  rub  thoroughly  with  an  extra 
one-half  pound  of  flour  that  has  been  browned.^  The  cake  is  lightly 
put  together  in  the  usual  way  and  the  fruit  put  in  last.  Line  the 
pans  with  thick,  buttered  paper  and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Black  Fruit  Cake.— Three  cupfuls  of  butter,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar 
(brown),  8  eggs,  ly^  pints  of  browned  flour,  3  cupfuls  of  currants,  2 
cupfuls  of  seeded  raisins,  1 J^  cupfuls  of  sliced  citron,  1  cupful  of 
blanched  chopped  almonds,  one-half  ^cupful  of  candied  lemon-peel, 
sliced  fine;  one-half  cupful  of  candied  orange-peel,  sliced  fine;  one- 
half  cupful  of  rose  water  or  black  coffee  (cold);  2  teaspoorifuls  each 
of  nutmeg  and  mace ;  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  allspice,  1 
teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla.  Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  light  cream, 
beat  eggs  to  a  light  froth,  ad^  them  to  sugar  and  butter,  beat  them 
all  for  10  minutes ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  to  a 
smooth  paste;  then  put  it  into  a  cake  pan  that  is  lined  with  a  white 
paper  that  has  been  greased  with  lard;  cover  the  outsides  and  bottom 


CAKES.  "  37a 

of  baking-dish  with  three  thicknesses  of  wrapping  paper ;  cover  the 
dish  before  you  put  cake  in,  have  oven  at  a  moderate  heat,  put  cake 
Vi,  bake  six  hours;  when  there  is  a  light  crust  on  top  cover  the  cake 
ttrith  thick  wrapping  paper ;  be  sure  to  keep  the  heat  up  by  adding  a 
shovelful  of  coal  from  time  to  time;  watch  carefully  that  it  does  not 
bake  too  fast,  take  from  the  oven  very  gently,  let  sit  in  baking-dish 
until  cold,  then  remove  and  ice  it  if  wished.  Brown  the  flour  in  a 
pan  in  the  oven,  stirring  very  frequently.  If  one  kind  of  fruit  is 
omitted,  double  some  other  kind  of  the  fruit  used,  or  add  more  flour. 

Cheap  Fruit  Cake. — One  teacupful  butter,  1  teacupful  brown 
sugar,  1  teacupful  molasses,  2  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  1  teaspoonful 
soda  stirred  in  1  teacupful  sour  milk,  1  pound  currants,  washed ;  1 
poundraisins,  seeded;  4  teacupfuls  sifted  flour.  Flavor  to  taste.  A 
good,  tested  combination  is  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  and  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  lemon  extract.  If  not  strong,  use  a  little  more  of  each.  Mix, 
and  bake  in"  a  medium  oven. 

Plum  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  3  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one-half  pound  raisins  (seeded),  one- 
half  pound   currants,   2  tablespoons 
quince   syrup  (currant  jelly  may  be 
used),   2  tablespoons  mixed  spice,  2 
squares   chocolate,   melted;    one-half 
teaspoon     soda,     one-half    teaspoon 
cream  tartar,  4  cups  flour ;  flour  the 
currants  and  raisins  before  adding  to      ^^'«  ^^^  ^^^  ^°"^*- 
the  mixture ;  bake  in  small  tins,  sifting  powdered  sugar  over  the  top 
of  each  before  putting  them  in  the  oven. 

Jam  Fruit  Cake. — Make  batter  for  an  ordinary  cup-cake,  and 
add  a  small  cupful  of  blackberry  jam.  When  baked,  cut  in  squares 
and  serve  without  frosting. 

Cream  Fruit  Cake  (Plain). — Two  cupfuls  brown  sugar,  1  cup- 
ful sour  cream  (thick),  three-quarters  cupful  currants,  1  teaspoonful 
soda  dissolved  in  the  cream ;  3  cupfuls  flour,  three-quarters  cupful  of 
raisins.  1  egg. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. — Two  cups  dried  apples;  stew  just  enough 
to  chop,  and  chop  about  the  size  of  raisins ;  boil  in  2  cups  of  molasses 
till  preserved  through ;  drain  off  the  molasses;  for  the  cake  add  2 


876  CAKES. 

eggs,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  soda,  4  cups  flour, 
and  spices  of  all  Icinds ;  add  the  apple  the  last  thing. 

Nut  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  1  cup  of  sugar, 
2  eggs  (reserve  one  of  the  whites  for  the  frosting),  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  Inilk,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cupful 
hickory-nut  meats  chopped.  "Beat  the  eggs,  sift,  the  baking  powder 
with  the  flour  and  mix  all  together.  Flour  the  nuts.  Bake  in  shal- 
low square  tins,  so  that  the  loaf  will  be  about  2  inches  thick.  Cut  in 
squares  and  frost,  put  one-half  an  English  walnut  on  each  square.  If 
the  cake  is  wished  white,  use  the  whites  of  3  eggs  instead  of  the  2 
whole  eggs. 

Walnut  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  2  cups 
of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
soda,  1  large  cup  of  raisins,  1  large  cup  of  nuts  chopped  .fine.  Flour 
the  raisins  and  nuts  before  putting  them  in  cake.  Frost  with  a  boiled 
frosting,  or  one  made  of  confectioners'^'sugar.  Halves  of  JEnglish 
walnuts  make  a  great  addition  placed  in  the  frosting. 

Fig  Cake,  Choice. — One  cupful  of  butter,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1 
cupful  of  milk,  3  eggs,  Sj4  cupfuls  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  pojund  of  fi^s.  Cut  the  figs  in  thin 
strips  and  sprinkle  with  flour ;  than  place  a  layet  of  cake  batter  in 
the  cake-tin,  next  a  layer  of  figs,  and  so  on,  finishing  with  a  layer  of 
cake.     This  is  an  excellent  cake. 

Date  Cake. — Make  same  as  the  fig  cake  given  above,  substituting 
dates  for  the  figs.  This  is  very  nice  frosted  with  half  dates  put  on 
the  frosting. 

.  Election  Cake. — ^This  old-fashioned  cake,  dear  to  the  hearts  of 
our  grandmothers,  is  a  troublesome,  but  a  delicious,  cake.  Five 
pounds  of  sifted  flour,  rubbed  with  2  pounds  of  butter;  2  pounds  of 
sugar,  1  }4.  pints  of  home-made  yeast,  2  pounds  raisins,  8  tablespqon- 
fuls  of  wine,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  4  eggs,  1  quart  of  sweet 
milk,  2  pounds  of  currants,  1  pound  of  citron,  half  ounce  of  grated 
nutmeg.  To  the  butter  and  flour  add  half  the  sugar;  then  the  yeast 
and  half  the  milk.  Lukewarm  in  summer ;  hot  in  winter.  Then  the 
eggs  beaten ;  then  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  wine.  Beat  well, 
and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  iall  night.  In  the  morning  beat  some 
time,  adding  the  brandy,  sugar,  spice  and  fruit  (well  floured),  and  let 
rise  again  very  light.    After  which  put  in  cake  pans,  and  let  rise  10 


CAKES.  377 

or  15  minutes.  Have  the  oven  about  as  hot  as  for  bread,  this  cake 
will  keep  any  length  of  time.  Potato  yeast  is  good  to  use.  Tem- 
perance people  can  use  2  extra  eggs  and  2  wine  glasses  pf  rosewater 
to  take  the  place  of  the  liquor  with  as  good  or  better  results. 

Chocolate  Lioaf  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  one-third  cup  but- 
ter, half  cup  milk,  1  cup  flour,  lj4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  half  cup 
dissolved  chocolate,  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
together,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  milk,  flour  (in  which  the 
baking  powder  has  been  well  mixed),  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  last  the  chocolate.  I  grate  mine  and  place  the 
cup  in  a  dish  of  hot  water.  When  cool  frost  with  the  following : 
One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  milkj  small  pinch  cream  tartar ;  boil  about  8 
minutes,  and  stir  until  stiff  enough  to  spread ;  flavor  if  desired. 
Chocolate  caramel  frosting  may  be  used  if  the  cake  is  wished  very 
dark.  Yellow  frosting  is  also  nice.  Bake  in  a  square  tin  and  cut  in 
squares.     It  is  very  pretty  mixed  with  white  cake. 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake. —  White  Part:  One-h,alf  cup  of  white 
sugar,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  whites  of  2  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  1  large  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  cocoanut,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  seasoning  as  preferred. 

Dark  Part:  One-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  molasses, 
one-fourth  cup  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  of  sour  milk,  1 
scant  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  grated  chocolate.  Va- 
nilla. Put  a  layer  of  the  white  batter  in  the  pan,  drop  the  chocolate 
batter  in  places,  then  pour  on  the  rest  of  the  white  batter. 

Hot-water  Sponge  Cake. — One  and  a  half  cups  of  powdered 
sugar,  ox  \y^  cups  of  granulated.  Four  eggs,  2  small  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  4  tablespoons  boiling  water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Cream  yolks  and  sugar  thoroughly,  then  add  beaten  whites  and  flour. 
Stir  thoroughly,  and  then  stir  in  the  boiling  water.  This  is  a  favorite 
recipe,  economical  and  delicious. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  two-thirds  o/ 
a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  and  1^  cups  of 
flour.    Any  flavoring  preferred. 

Sponge  Cake,  SmaU  Sheet.^One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  3  eggs, 
1  scant  cup  of  sifted  flour,  a  bit  of  salt,  little  nutmeg  or  juice  of  part 
of  a  lemon;  beat  the  eggs  very  light;  add  the  sugar  and  flavoring. 
Bake  immediately. 


378  CAKES. 

Angel  Food. — ^The  recipe  herewith  given  is  warranted  to  be  the 
best,  and  challenges  competition.  Beat  very  stiff  and  dry  10  whites 
of  eggs  (one-half  pint) ;  sift  together  twice,  one-half  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  5  ounces  of  pastry  flour,  1  even  teaspoonful  of  cream 
tartar;  add  all  this  to  the  eggs,  stirring  very  gently  with  wooden 
spatula;  sprinkle  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  powder  to  it,  and  fill 
in  the  regular  angel  food  tins.  Soak  these  moulds  in -^cold  water 
always  before  using;  fill  while  wet  (just  rinse  them  out),  and  when 
baked  turn  moulds  upside  down.  Never  grease  or  line  the  moulds 
with  paper;  just  have^  them  wet,  and  the  cakes  will  fall  out  when 
cold,  as  white  as  snow.'^all  the  crust  sticking  to  the  mould.  Frost  very 
thin,  and  give  icing  a  very  delicate  flavor,  or  just  a  littl^ lemon  juice. 

Angel  Food  Frosting. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  confectionery 
sugar;  add  a  gill  of  sweet  milk,  beat  it  well;  -put  it  on  with  a  silver 
knife ;  when  the  cake  is  halfcool,  then  crease  for  slices. 

Com  Starch  Cake. — ^Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter  mixed 
together ;  1  cup  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  cup  of  corn- 
starch, and  2  cups  of  flour,  and  1  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar ;  whites  of 
5  eggs,  beaten.  Be  sure  to  sift  the  flour,  cornstarch,  and  cream  of 
tartar  together.  A  white  frosting,  or  a  chocolate  frosting,  or  a  yellow 
frosting  can  be  used  with  it. 

laly  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a 
crea,m ;  :half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  cup  of  cornstarch,  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoon  and  a  half  of  baking  powder.  Last  of 
all,  add  the  whites  of  iS  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth.  Flavor  to  suit  the 
taste.  Yellow  frosting,  and  orange  extract  for  flavoring,  make  the 
cake  very  nice. 

Delicate  Cake. — Six  whites  of  eggs,  2  cupfuls  of  sugiui  creamed 
witli  one-half  cupful  of  butter ;  add  ,  three-quarters  cupful  of  sweet 
milk  or  water,  and  3  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Flavor  to  suit.  -Add 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  then  the  other  ingre- 
dients.   Use  any  preferred  frosting,  or  none  at  all. 

liady  Cake. — One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  and ,  half  a  cup  of 
fcutter,  beaten  to  a  cream.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs, 
2  cups  of  flour,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  it ;  one- 
half  cupful  of  water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  almond  extract.  Bake  in  a 
shallow  tin,  and  when  cool  ice  the  top,  and  cut  in  small  squares. 


CAKES.  379 

Almond  Cake. — ^Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  2j^  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  the  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs,  1  pound  of  finely  chopped 
almonds.  If  the  beauty  of  the  cake  is  not  considered,  3  whole  eggs 
may  be  used.  Where  whites  only  are  used,  a  yellow  frosting  is  a 
good  idea. 

Tuiii  Frutti  Frosting. — Nice  for  this,  or  any  other  white  cake, 
is  as  follows  :  Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  thick;  18  teaspoons  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  one-half  cup  citron  cut  fine,  or  of  chopped  raisins  instead, 
or  both ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  put  the  frosting  Oii  the  cake  in  the  pan 
while  hot,  and  harden  in  a  cool  oven. 

Pound  Cake. — Beat  the  whites  of  12  eggs  to  a  stiff"  froth.  The 
yolks  beat  until  they  look  light  and  white ;  then  beat  in  1  pound  of 
sugar ;  next,  beat  in  the  whites ;  cream  a  light  pound  of  butter  until 
it  looks  frothy ;  then  sift:  in,  by  degrees,  1  pound  of  flour,  and  cream 
them  together,  and  add  the  other  mixture.  Put  in  a  little  powdered 
mace,  if  you  like,  a  wineglass  of  wine,  or  the  same  of  brandy. 

Spiced  Raisin  Cake. — One  scant  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  3  eggs,  4  cups  of 
flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  1  nutmeg  grated. 

Coffee  Cake. — One  cupful  of  butter  and  lard  (half  and  half) ;  one 
cupful  of  brown  sugar,  1  cupful  of  common  molasses,  1  cupful  of  cold 
coffee,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  (or  2  rounded  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder) ;  2  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  1  even  tablespoonful  of  ginger, 
cinnamon,  and  cloves ;  or  spice  to  taste ;  and  from  3^  to  4  cupfuls.  of 
sifted  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  1  cupful  raisins  improve  it. 
'  -  Ocange  Cake. — Yolks  of  5  eggs,  whites  of  4 ;  2  cupfulsof  sugar.- 
one-half  cupful  of  water;  1  orange,  grated  rind  and  juice;  2  cupfuls 
flour,  three-quarters  cupful  butter,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der. Frost  with  the  following  frosting:  White  of  1  t.%%,  1  cupful 
white  sugar,  half  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange. 

Lemon  Cake. — One  cupful  butter,  2j^  cupfuls-^sugar ;  3  eggs, 
beaten  separately ;  4  cupfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved 
in  two-thirds  cupful  of  milk ;  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind.  No 
cream  of  tartar  is  used,  the  lemon  juice  furnishing  the  required 
acid.  Mix  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  mill^ 
tfien  the  flour  and  lemon ;  lastly,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 


380  CAKES. 

Frosting. — ^White  of  1  egg  (this  can  be  reserved  from  the  cake), 
9  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  1  teaspoonful 
lemon-juice. 

lioaf  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  of  light  dpugh,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1 
cupful  of  butter,  1  cupful  of  cream,  2  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  1  cupful  of  raisins,  1  cupful  of  currants,  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
ground  cinnamon  and  mace,  and  a  grated  nutmeg.  Work  well  to- 
gether, and  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  stiff!  Shape  in  loaves,  put 
into  pans,  raise,  and  bake  slowly. 

1-2-3-4:  Cake. — One  cup^  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  8  cups  of 
flour,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  teaspoon  of  soda, 
or.1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  nutmeg  and  extract  of  lemon.  This 
makes  a  sheet  or  loaf 

Layer  Cake. 

Marshmallow  Cake. — Whites  of  18  eggs,  2ji(  cupfuls  powdered 
sugar,  1  }4  cupfuls  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs  very  lightly,  then  cut  the  sugar  in  with  a 
broad-bladed  knife.  Sift  the  flour  three  times  with  the  cream  of  tar- 
tar, then  cut  it  -into  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beat  and  add  the  vanilla. 
Bake  in  three  cakes  in  deep,  new,  unbuttered  layer-pans^  Put  white 
or  brown  paper  in  the  bottom  of  the  tins,  and  use  a  quick  oven. 
Spread  thickly  between  the  layers  and  on  top,  a  filling  made  as  fol- 
lows :  Marshmailow  Filling. — Boil  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  1  cupftll 
of  water  until  it  threads.  Just  before  taking  it  off"  the  fire  put  in  one- 
half  ppund  of  marshmallows,  broken  in  bits  to  melt  more  easily. 
Pour  this  mixture  gradually  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
and  beat  continuously  until  cold.  ~     - 

DevU's  Food. — Two  cupfuls  irown  sugar,  creamed  with  half  cup- 
ful butter ;  3  eggs,  1  cupful  water,  2^  cupfuls  flour  before  sifting,  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice, 
cinnamon;  half  teaspoon  black  pepper;  half  a  nutmeg,  grated;  use  a 
dark  chocolate  frosting.  Boil  2  teacupfuls  of  raisins  soft,  seed  and 
chop  fine.     Put  between  the  layers  on  the  frosting. 

Chocolate  Cream  Cake.- — One  cup  of  butter,  2  of  sugar,  3  of 
flour,  1  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 
4  eggs.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  adding  it  the  last  thing  before 
baking.  This  will  make  2  cakes  of  3  layers  each.  Put  together 
with  chocolate  cream  filling  already  given,  or  with  the  following : 


CAKES. 


381 


Chocolate  Cream.  Filling. — Grate  one-half  pound  of  chocolate, 
pour  on  it  one-half  pint  of  boiling  milk,  stir  well,  and  add  1  t^g,  beaten 
vith  a  cup  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  When  both  cake  and  fill- 
ing are  cold  put  the  filling  between  the  layers  of  cake.  If  it  is  desired 
to  frost  the  top  of  the  cake,  use  the  following :  Frosting. — Whjtft  of  1 
egg,  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1  teasipoon  of  melted  chocolate,  quarter 
teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Chocolate  JLayer  Cake. — Two-thirds  cup  of  grated  chocolate, 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  1  egg 
beaten.  Cook  this  enough  to  mix  thor- 
oughly, and  while  warm  add  butter  the 
size  of  a  butternut  and  cool.  Then  add 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1^  cups 
flour,  1^  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in  layers. 

Filling  and  Icing. — Put  a  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  over  the  fire,  with  enough 
cold  water  to  cover ;  boil  until  it  strings  ; 
stir  in  4  ounces  of  chocolate,  melted  as 
above,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten 
light ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until 
almost  cold. 

Chocolate  Caramel  Cake. — One  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  white 
sugar,  creamed  with  half  cupful  butter,  two-thirds  cupful  water,  yolks 
of  3  eggs  or  2  whole  eggs  ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted 
with  3  cupfuls  of  flour.  Bake  in  layers,  and  put  together  with  the 
following  Caramel:  d 

Caramel — Half  pound  of  sugar,  2  squares  of  chocolate  (Baker's), 
1  teaspoonful  butter,  half  cupful  water  or  milk.  Set  the  dish  in 
boiling  milk,  and  stir  until  thick  enough,  spread.  Set  the  cake  in  the 
oven  to  dry  for  a  few  minutes. 

Ice  C^'eam  Cake. — Half  cupful  butter,  1^  cupfuls  sugar,  2  cup- 
fuls flour,  half  cupful  milk,  whites  of  5  eggs,  2  level  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  half  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract.  Beat  the  butter  to 
a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  into  it  the  sugar  and  then  the,  vanilla. 
Now  add  the  milk  and  also  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Finally  stir  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder  mixed  together. 
Pour  this  batter  into  shallow  cake  pans  that  have  been  well  buttered, 


882  CAKES. 

and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  25  or  30  minutes.iv  When  cool,  ice. 
The  icing  is  to  be  made  after  the  rule  given  for  tee  Cream  Filling. 
Put  on  the  filling  thick  as  possible.     It  makes  a  delicious  cake. 

Banana  Layer  Cake. — Make  any  preferred  layer  cake.  Put  to- 
gether with  either  of  the  banana  fillings  given  before,  or  simply  ice 
the  layers  with  a  soft  icing,  and  cover  thickly  with  sliced  bananas. 
Filling:  Slice  up  some'  bananas  and  stir  them  through  a  cup  of  rich 
cream.     It  is  very  delicate  arid  rich. 

Orange  Jelly  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  2 
cupfuls  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  milk,  2  j^  cupfuls  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  Royal  baking  powder ;  bake  in  jelly  pans. 

Jelly  for  Cake. — Take  2  good  oranges,  grate  a  part  of  the  rind 
of  1,  then  peel  and  grate  them  all,  remove  the  seeds  and  add  1  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  2  tablespdonfuls  of  water,  and  scald  in  a  tin  set  in  a  kettle 
of  hot  water.  Take  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  mix  smooth  "with 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  orange  enough  to 
soak  the  cornstarch.  When  quite  cold  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
and  add  powdered  sugar  for  frosting.  Leave  out  a  little  of  this  for 
the  top  of  the  cake,  and  stir  the  rest  into  the  orange,  and  you  will 
have  a  jelly  that  will  not  run  off  or  soak  into  the  cake. 

Orange  Layer  Cake. — Half  cupful  of  butter  creamed  with  2  cup-- 
fuls  sugar,  add  the  juice  of  1^  oranges  and  the  yellow  rind  of  1 
orange,  grated.  Stir  in  one,  at  a  tijiie,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Dis- 
solve half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  half  a  cup  of  water,  and  add  it  to 
the  other  ingredients.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  stiff  and  stir  into 
the  cake  with  2  cups  of  flour,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar  has  been  sifted.  Bake  in  layers,  and  when  cool  frost  each  one 
and  place  them  one  over  the  other.  When  the  third  layer  is  frosted, 
and  before  it  hardens,  lay  small  quarters  of  orange  around  the  edge. 

Frosting. — The  white  of  1  large  egg  beaten  stiff,  add  1  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  then  the  juice  of  1>^  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of 
1  orange  and  powdered  sugar  enough  to  make  it  spread  nicely. 

Lemon  Layer  Cakei— -One  cupful  of  butter,  3  cupfuls  powdered 
sugar,  yolks  of  5  eggs.  Stir  to  a  cream.  Juice  and  grated  yellow 
rind  of  1  lemon,  3  cupfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful "^oda  dissolved 
in  1  cupful  milk.  No  cream  of  tartar;  the  lemon  supplies  the  acid. 
Add  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs  last.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  put 
together  with  the  following  icing :  Reserve  1  white  of  egg  from  the 


CAKES.  383 

cake,  add  to  it  1  teaspoonful  of  cornstarph,  9  of  white  sugar,  arid  1 
of  lemon  juice ;  put  between  the  layers  and  over  the-  top.  This  is 
good  baked  in  a  loaf  and  frosted. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake.-^One  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,' 
1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  2j4  cupfuls  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  three  layers  and  put  together  with  lemon  jelly 
made  as  follows :  /eUy. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  egg,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
one-half  cup  of  water.     Boil  until  the  consistency  of  cornstarch. 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake. — Three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  butter 
creamed  with  2  cupfuls  white  sugar,  1  cupful  sweet  milk,  4  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  separately  beaten,  the  yolks  added  first  to  the  but 
ter  and  sugar,  then  the  whites ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Sift  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  in  3  cupfuls  sifted  flouir  and  add  last. 
Bake  in  jelly  tins.  Filling:  Whites  of  3  eggs  and  1  cupful  powdered 
sugar  beaten  to  a  froth.  .  When  the  cake  is  cold  spread  a  thick  layer 
over  each  cake  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cocoanut.  If  the 
prepared  cocoanut  is  used,  moisten  it  with  milk  before  usin^. 

Cocoanut  and  Almond  Layer  Cake. — Two  and  one-half  cupfuls" 
powdered  sugar  creamed  with  1  cupful  butter,  4  cupfuls  sifted  flour, 
whites  of  7  eggs  beaten  stiff,  1  teacupful  milk,  one-half  teaspoonfuJ 
soda,  juice  of  1  lemon,  no  cream  of  tartar,  the  lemon  will  supply  the 
acid,  1  grated  cocoanat,  or  1  cupful  desiccated  cocoanut  moistened  in 
a  little  milk.  Stir  the  lemon  juice  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
milk  and  the  egg  whites  and  flour  alternately.  Lastly  stir  in  the 
grated  cocoanut  swiftly  and  lightly.  Bake  in  four  jelly-cake  tins. 
Filling:  One  pound  sweet  almonds,  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff,  1 
-heaping  cupful  powdered  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  rose  water.  Blanch 
the  almonds  and  rub  to  a  paste,  adding  the  rose  water  a  little/at  a 
time.  Save  out  a  couple  of  dozen  to  shred  for  the  top.  Stir  this 
paste  into  the  icing  after  it  is  made.  Spread  between  the  cooled 
cakes.  Stir  a  little  more  sugar  in  that  meant  for  the  top,,  and  when' it 
is  partly  cool  stick  the  shredded  almonds  closely  over  it.  Put  in  the 
oven  to  harden.     Do  not  let  it  scorch. 

Sponge  Cream  Cake.— Two  eggs  and  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  beaten  together  very -light.  Add  5  tablespoonfuls 
of  boiling  water  (be  sure  the  water  is  boiling)  as  quickly  as  possible, 
beat  slightly,  then  add  a  cup  of  flour  sifted  twice,  with  a  teaspoonful 


384  CAKES. 

baking  powder  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Flavor  slightly  with  lemon 
or  vanilla  or  nutmeg.  Beat  until  the  flour  is  absorbed,  no  longer. 
Bake  in  2  jelly  cake  pans  12  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  The  batter  is 
so  thin  the  whole  process  of  mixing  can  be  done  with  the  egg-beater. 
Whip  1  cup  of  cream  stiff,  sweeten  with  pulverized  sugar,  adding  it  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  while  you  are  beating  until  you  havf~  it  sweet 
enough.  Flavor  to  taste.  Put  part  of  it  on  the  bottom  of  one  cake, 
lay  the  other  cake  on  with  the  top  up  and  put  the  remainder  of  the 
cream  in  a  pastry  bag  containing  a  star  tube  in  the  end  and  decorate 
the  surface  with  dots  of  the  cream. 

Sponge  Fig'  Cake. — Take  12  large  figs,  wash,  chop  fine  and  boil 
until  soft.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  stiff  and  mix  with  them  a  cup- 
ful of  powdered  sugar.  Mash  the  figs  with  a  spoon  into  a  paste  and 
stir  in  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Bake  a  sponge  _cake  in  shallow  plates  or 
pans,  and  when  cold  spread  the  filling  thickly  between  the  layer?,  and 
over  the  top ;  you  may  flavor  the  filling  with  either  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Fig  Layer  C^ke. — Beat  3  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  15  minutes,  add 
one-half  cup  milk  and  1^  cups  flour,  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  sifted  with  flour.  Mix  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  melted  but- 
ter. Bake  quickly  in  shallow  layer  cake  tins.  Filling:  One  pound 
of  figs  chopped  fine  (add  a  little  cold  water  if  they  chop  hard)j  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Mix  and  cook  slowly  until 
a  smooth  paste.  Add  juice  of  1  lemon.  Frosting:  White  of  egg 
and  confectioners'  sugar. 

Tutti  Frutti  Layer  Cake. — Make  any  preferred  rule  of  layer 
cake,  rather  rich,  and  put  together  with  the  following:  Filling.— -r- 
Boil  1  pound  sugar,  1  gill  of  water,  till  it  ropes,  then  pour  on  stifY 
whites  of  4  eggs.  Beat  hard,  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  chopped 
citron,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  chopped  figs,  one-half  pound  seeded 
and  chopped  raisins,  1  pound  blanched  and  pounded  almonds  (or 
chopped) ;  these  all  well  stirred  together  before  mixing  with  the  egg 
mixture.  Spread  between  the  layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake, 
or,  cut  in  squares  or  three-cornered,  etc.,  and  frost  each  separate  piece. 
Very  nice  for  whist  parties,  etc. 

Bibbon  Fig  Cake. — ^Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  2  cupfuis 
sugar,  1  cupful  milk,  3  cupfuls  flour  sifted,  with  3  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder.  Divide  the  batter.  To  one  half  add  1  yi  cupfuls  chopped 
figs  and  bake  in  2  jelly  tins.    Leave  the  other  half  plain  and  bake  in 


CAKES.  385 

S  jelly  tins.     Put  together  in  alternate  layers  of  light  and  dark,  using 
a  plain  frosting. 

Wasliington  Pie. — Cake  Part,  One  egg,  three-quarters  cup  sugar, 
granulated,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1^  cups  flour,  three-quarters  cup 
milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda.  Bake  in  Wash- 
ington pie  tins.  Filling:  Cup  milk,  sweetened  to  taste,  add  1  &gg 
well  beaten,  heat  to  boiling  point,  add  2  teaspoons  cornstarch  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water.  After  it  has  boiled  up  remove  from  fire.  When 
ready  to  fill  cake,  spread,  then  slice  2  whole  bananas,  lay  on  cream, 
put  a  little  TOore  cream  over  them,  then  lay  the  cake  on  top.  The 
bananas  may  be  omitted.    The  top  can  be  frosted  if  desired. 

Peach  Cake. — Bake  2  laye|;s  of  plain  sponge  cake.  Cut  pesiches 
in  thin  slices  and  add  sugar.  Put  a  layer  of  peaches  on  1  sheet  of 
cake  and  cover  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored.  Add 
the  other  layer  of  cake  and  cover  with  whipped  cream  alone. 

Cranberry  Cake. — Use  the  same  rule  as  for  peach  cake,  or  even 
a  plainer,  1-egg  cake.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  when  cool  spread 
between  the  layers  with  cranberry  jelly,  and  then  sift  powdered  sugar 
on  top. 

Berry  Cake. — Make  a  plain  layer  cake,  bake  in  2  tins.  Filling: 
Make  a  soft  frosting  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  spoons  of  sugar ; 
take  nearly  half  of  this  and  spread  on  cake,  then  take  1  quart  of  fresh 
blueberries  or  raspberries,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  spread  half  of  them 
on  the  soft  frosting  on  cake,  then  put  on  second  layer,  spread  rest  of 
berries,  and,  last,  rest  of  soft  frosting.  This  is  a  delicious  dessert 
for  dinner. 

Strawberry  Liayer  Cake. — Make  a  layer  cake  after  any  preferred 
recipe,  bake  in  3  tins.  Have  the  strawberries  carefully  picked  over. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  lightly  and  add  gradually  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  stand  alone.  Put  a 
layer  of  this  over  the  top  of  1  cake,  then  a  layer  of  berries ;  stand 
another  cake  on  top  of  this.  ,  Put  the  remainder  of  the  white  filling 
over  the  top  of  this  cake,  then  another  layer  of  berries.  Now  place 
the  remaining  cake  on  top  of  this,  press  down  lightly,  dust  the  top 
over  with  powdered  sugar,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Filling:  Take  1 
cup  of  strawberries,  mash,  add  white  of  1  egg  and  1  cup  of  sugar, 
beat  the  same  as  for  apple  snow;  raspberry, jam  can  be  used  in  the 
same  way. 

COOK— 85       . 


386  CAKES. 

Apple  Jelly  Cake.— One  egg,  1  _cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet, 
milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins.  Jelly :  Use  2  large  or  3 
small  apples,  grated,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon.  Boil  5  minutes ;  place  between  cakes.  This  makes  a 
delicious  filling  for  a  pie  also. 

Apple  Snow  Cake. — ^One  &gg  and  1  yolk  of  another;  1  cupful 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  2  cupfuls 
flour.  Bake  in  3  tins.  Filling:  One  grated  sour  apple,  white  of  1 
egg,  1  cupful  of  fine  sugar.  Beat  together,  spread  between  and  on 
top  of  the  cake.  Flavor  with  lemon  extract,  or  a  little  lemon-juice.- 
A  plain  tart  apple  skuce  may  be  made,  well  sweetened,  beaten  smooth 
and  spread  between  the  layers. 

tTelly  Cake. — Three  eggs,  well  beaten ;  half  cupful  sweet  milk,  or 
water;  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,!  cupful  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  sifted  with  1}^  cupfuls  flour.     Bake  in   four  layers.     Put  . 
together  with  any  kind  of  jelly,  marmalade,  or  jam. 

Walnut  Layer  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  2 
cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  yolks  of  all  and  whites  of  one,  1  teaspoon  of  soda 
in  half  cup  milk,  2  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  bake  in  3  layers.  Filling : 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  ^with  1  cup  of  sugar  and  add  1  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts.     Put  the  cake  together  with  this. 

Filling. — //.  Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  enough  water  to  dissolve  it, 
let  it  boil  till  it  drips  slowly  from  the  spoon,  then  pour  it  on  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  till  thick.  Take  half  of  it  and 
add  pkrt  of  the  walnut  meats  chopped.  Spread  between  the  layers. 
Put  the  rest  of  the  frosting  on  top  and  lay  a  row  of  the  halves  of  the 
Walnuts  around  the  edge  of  the  cake.  It  requires  the  meats  from  half 
a  pound  of  walnuts. 

Ifeapftlitan  Cake  {Dark  part). — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  strong 
coffee,  3  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of 
raisins,  1  cup  of  currants,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
mace.     Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans.         /  ^^ft 

(Light  Part).— T-wo  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  balcing  powder  and  the  whites  of 
4  eggs.  Put  together  alternately  With  dark,  spreading  icing  between. 
Ice  the  top. 


CAKES.  387- 

Fruit  Layer  Cake. — One  cupful  sugar  creamed  with  one-half 
cupful  butter,  2  eggs,  one-half  cupful  sweet  milk,  1^  cupfuls  flour 
sifted  with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1  cupful  raisins  chopped, 
one-half  cupful  Zante  currants,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  allspice,  -Add  the  fruit  last,  dredging  well  with  flour.  Bake 
in  3  layers,  using  frosting  to  put  together  when  baked ;  frost  top  and 
sides. 

Baisin  I^ayer  Cake. — Make  as  above,  using  raisins  only  for  the 
fruit.    Bake  in  3  layers  and  frost. 

Layer  Spice  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  sugar  creamed  with  1  cupful 
butter,  1  cupful  sweet  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  4  cupfuls  flour  sifted 
with  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  4  eggs  well  beaten.  Divide  the 
batter.  Bake  one-half  in  2  layer  tins,  and  to  the  other  half  add  one- 
half  cupful  molasses,  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
nutmeg  and  allspice,  one-half  teaspoonful  cloves.  Bake  in  2  layer 
cake  tins  and  put  together  alternately  light  and  dark,  with  any  frost- 
ing or  icing  that  may  be  preferred. 

Maple  Caramel  Cake. — Two  eggs  (save  out  the  white  of  one),  1 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  1^  cUps  of 
sifted  flour,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  (not  heaping). ,  Sift  baking  powder  in  with  flour  and  bake  in 
3  layers.  Filling:  Two  cups  of  pure  maple  sugar;  put  on  stove  with 
a  little  water  to  keep  from  burning ;  let  it  cook  until  it  hairs  ;  then 
set  off,  and  beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  sugar  and 
beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread  without  running.  It  v/ants  to  be' 
kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  It  is  very  nice  to  put  1  cup  of  English 
walnuts  chopped  in  the  filling,  after  the  egg  is  put  in. 

Maple  Sugar  Cake. — Make  a  layer  cake  as  above,  and  put  to- 
gether with  the  following  filling.  Filling:  Put  in  a  new  tin  1^  cups 
of  maple  sugar,  1^  cups  of  sweet  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
boil  all  together  40  minutes,  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and 
spread  between  the  cake  if  made  in  layers ;  beat  until  cool  and 
creamy,  and  spread.     Begin  this  before  the  cake  is  commenced. 

Caramel  Cake. — Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  tea- 
-spoon of  soda  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add 
the  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  well  beaten  separately,  then  together), 
then  the  milk,  in  which  the  soda  is  dissolved,  and  lastly  the  flour. 


888  CAKES. 

with  which  the  cream  of  tartar  is  sifted.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Filling  : 
Boil  together  2  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk  and 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  After  boiling  10  minutes,  re- 
move from  the  fire,  beat  until  cool  and  creamy ;  flavor  and  spread  be- 
tween the  layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake.  Vanilla  is  the  best  flavor 
for  this  filling,  - 

Minnehalia  Cake. — ^Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  water  and  5  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
grated  peel  of  2  oranges ;  mix  sugar  and  yoWis  together,  then  add 
the  water  and  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten,  and  the  flour,  in  which  has 
been  sifted  the  baking  powder.  Add  flavoring  according  to  taste. 
Bake  in  square  or  round  layers.  For  the  filling,  1  pound  of  sugar 
boiled  until  it  flies  from  the-  spoon  i^^  strings ;  upon  this  pour  the 
whites  of  4  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  hard; 
then  add  one-quarter  pound  of  chopped  citron,  one-quarter  pound  of 
chopped  figs,  one-half  pound  seeded  and  cut-fine  raisins,  1  pound  of 
blanched  almonds  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together  and  add  the  icing. 
Gradually  spread  between  the  layers  and  on  the  top  and  side  of  the 
cake.  This  cake  can  be  used  at  any  collation,  for  supper  or  dessert^ 
and  if  put  in  a  stone  crock  it  will  keep  fresh  for  some  time. 

Ambrosia  Cake. — Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  4  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoohs  of 
baking  powder ;  bake  in  4  jelly  cake  tins  ;  when  cold  put  between 
the  layers  the  following:  Filling.— Oae^mi  of  whipped  cream,  1  co- 
coanut  grated,  2^  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  grated  rind  of  1  and  juice  of  2 
oranges.  ^*      - 

Pond  Lily  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  the  whites 
of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  beat  all  together,  add  1  cup  of  s'weet  milk,  3 
cups  of  flour,  with  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  it.  Bake 
in  4  layers,  put  together  with  the  following :  Filling. — The  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  beaten  with  1  cup  of  sugar  until  very  thick  it^d  light,  flavor 
with  rose  or  orange,  use  the  other  white  for  frosting  the  top.  Flavor 
the  cake  whil.e  hot  with  vanilla ;  use  an  atomizer,  as  baking  spoils  the 
strength  of  the  vanilla,  if  not  of  the  best  quality. 

-  Bebel  Cake.— "  Rebel  cake  "  is  a  great  favorite  in  the  South.  It 
was  so  named  in  honor  df  the  great  Confederate,  General  Robert  E. 
Lee.  Take  9  eggs,  the  weight  of  7  eggs  in  sugar,  the  weight  of  4 
eggs  in  flour,  down  weight.    Add  the  sugar  to  tile  well-beaten  yolk* 


CAKES.  389 

of  9  eggs,  then  add  the  whites,  beaten  very  light,  Stir  the  flour 
gently  and  season  with  fresh  lemon  ;  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins.  When 
cold  spread  each  layer  with  the  following  filling  :  Strain  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  2  oranges  and  1  lertion  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a 
pound  of  pulverized  Sugar.  Add  to  this  a  grated  cocoanut  and  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten  very  light.  This  recipe  will  make  two  cakes 
of  nine  layers  each. 

Fancy  Cakes. 

Vanilla  Wafers. — One  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  1. 
*gg»  4  tablespoons  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla,  2  full  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter,  then  add  the  sugar,  beating 
them  well  together.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  then  the  milk  and' 
vanilla ;  sift  the  baking  powder  in  with  part  of  the  flour,  using  flour 
enough  to  roll  out  very  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Sprinkle  sugar 
on  top  before  cutting  out. 

Almond  Wafers. — Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  blanched 
and  finely  chopped  almonds,  and  mix  with '  them  6  ounces  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  3  whole  eggs  that  are  beaten  up  together,  and  1]4 
ounces  of  finely  sifted  flour ;  flavor  the  mixture  with  essence  of  va- 
nilla and  then  cook  as  follows :  Take  some  baking  tins  and  brush 
them  over  with  white  wax ;  aUpw  them  to  get  cool,  then  spread  the 
mixture  on  the  tins  very  thinly,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven 
until  the  water  dries  on  top ;  then  take  up  the  tins  and  cut  the  paste 
into  strips — rounds  or  squares,  as  liked^— put  in  a  screen  or  very 
moderate  oven,  and  let  them  remain  until  quite  dry.  If  kept  in  a  dry 
place  they  will  keep  for  some  time,  and  can  be  used  with  ices  or 
creams,  or  compotes  of  fruit,  or  for  dessert.  _ 

Walnut  Wafers. — ^One-half  pint  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pint  of 
walnut  meats,  3  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  2 
eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  ;  then  add  sugar,  salt,  flour,  and  walnuts.  Drop 
from  spoon  on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  until  brown. 

Seed  Wafers."— One-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of 
butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar;  4  eggs,  beaten  very  light;  enough 
flour  for  soft  dough ;  1  ounce  caraway  seeds,  mixed  with  the  dry 
flour.  Mix  well ;  roll  into  a  very  thin  paste.  Cut  into  round  cakes; 
brush  each  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  sift  powdered  sugar  upon 
it,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  about  10  minutea,  or  until  eruqx    Do  not 


890 


CAKES. 


take  them  from  the  baking  tins  until  nearly  cold,  as  they  are  apt  to 
break  while  hot. 

Cocoanut  Wafers. — One  cup  of,  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  of 
butter,  1  egg,  4  tablespoons,  of  milk,  J  ^  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar, 
three-quarters  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll  thin.  Stir  in 
one-half  cup  of  cocoanut.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

IJemon  Wafers. — Dainty  lemon  wafers  to  serve  with  ice  are 
made  of  2  eggs,  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  half  their  weight  in  flour, 
and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Beat  thoroughly.  Then  drop  on  a 
buttered  pan,  and  bake  till  a  pale  yellow  brown.  Flatten  the  cake  as 
it  spreads  on  the  pan,  to  give  wafers  the  size  of  a  small  teacup  top. 

Eggr  Wafers. — 
To  1  large  egg  add  1 
tablespoonful  of  su- 
gar ,(brown  is  the 
best) ;  put  sugar  and 
egg  together,  and 
beat  thoroughly  for  5 
minutes;  then  knead 
in  ^  prepared  flour 
enough  to  make  them 
of  the  consistency  of 
doughnuts ;  roll  "but 
thin,  cut  out  with 
the  biscuit  cutter  (or 
with  something  still 
smaller,  if  you-  like), 
and  fry  in  hot  lard  the  same  as  doughnuts.  They  will  not  soak  fat, 
and  are  nice  for  lunch ;  3  lar^e  eggs  will  make  enough  for  one  meal 
for  a  family  of  four.  Prepared  Flour. — To  1  quart  of  unsifted  flour, 
add  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  1  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Sift  2  or  3  times,  Shut  up  in  a  tin  pail  what  flour  you  don't 
use.     Keep  in  a  cool  place ;  it  will  make  good  biscuit. 

Chocolate  wafers. — One  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  grated  chocolate,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful 
baking  po^vder,  one-half  cup  water,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  flour  to 
make  a  stiff" batter;  roll  thin,  and  cut  with  square  cufter.  Bake  on 
ereiased  tins.~" 


CAKES.  391 

Tea  Lemon  Wafers — Beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  t6  a 
cream;  add  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  6  eggs  until 
creamy,  and  mix  with  the  butter  and  sugar;  then  add  the  juice  and 
rind  of  2  lemons,  with  1  grated  nutmeg,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Beat  all  together  until  smooth  and  light.  Heat,  the  wafer 
irons  over  a  clear  fire,  grease  lightly  with  butter,  put  in  enough  of  the 
batter  to  fill  the  irons,  close,  and  turn  over  a  clear  fire  until  brown. 
Take  out,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and  roll  around  a  smooth  stick. 
Remove  carefully,  when  cold.     (Very  dainty  little  cakes.) 

Cream  Fruit  Wafers. — One-half  of  a  cupful  of  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream ;  into  this  stir  1  small  cupful  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
coffee  extract.  Into  one-half  pint  of  sour  cream  put  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  and  add  to  the  other  mixture  with  half  a  cupful  of 
chopped  raisins  and  enough  flour  to  roll  out  thin.  These  wafers  are 
delicious.      ^ 

Lady  Fingers. — Into  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar 
stir  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  until  very  light ;  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  into  the  first  mixture;  add  gently  half  a  cup  of 
sifted  flour ;  bake  in  lady-finger  pans,  sprinkled  with  pulverized 
sugar.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  15  minutes. 

Lemon  Snaps, — Two  small  lemons,  juice  of  2  and  grated  rind  of 
1, 1  teacup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  1  egg,  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
liiilk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  mix 
with  enough  flour  to  make  rather  stiff.  If  lemons  are  not  convenient, 
simply  flavor  strongly  with  lemon  extract. 

Coffee  Snaps. — One-half  cup  molasses,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup 
lard  or  butter^a  little  salt,  half  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved ;  one-quar- 
ter 'cup  of  strong  coffee.  Beat  well,  add  flour  enough  to  roll,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  Puffs. — One  cup  of  boiling  water  poured  over  half  cup  of 
butter.  When  you  have  done  this,  place  it  on  the  stove,  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  add  1  cup  of  sifted  flour.  Let  boil  5  minutes,  beating  all 
the  time.  When  cool  add  3  eggs,  not  beaten.  Beat  for  10  minutes, 
then  add  soda  the  size  of  a  pea.  This  makes  12  large  puffs.  Bake 
30  minutes.  Filling :  One  cup  of  milk,  1  egg,  half  clip  of  sugar. 
Beat  until  thick.  Flavor  to  taste.  This  recipe  will  always  puff. 
When  the  puffs  and  the  cream  are  both  cool,  open  a  little  way  on  the 
side  with  a  sharp  knife  and  fill  with  the  cream. 


aw  CAKES. 

Homaof  Plcinty. — ^Two  eggs.  Their  weight  in  tngir  5  htlf  their 
weight  in  flour;  flavor  to  suit.  Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  quickly. 
When  taken  from  the  oven,  roll  each  one  into  a  little  cornucopia. 
Fill  when  serving  with  whipped  cream.  These  are  very  pretty  to 
look  at  at  afternoon  teas,  and  nice  to  eat  with  chocolate.  A  jelly  or 
a  chocolate  filling  may  be  used  instead  of  cream.  # 

Sand  Tarts.— One  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  molasses,  2  eggs  (re- 
serving white  of  1),  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,.!  cup  brown  sugar,  3 
cups  flour,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Roll  out  thin,  glaze  with 
white  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  and  when  baked  dot 
with  bits  of  curralit  jelly. 

Holiday  Cakes. — Blanch  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  shelled 
almonds,  and  slice  in  halves ;  chop  half  a  pound  of  citron ;  mix 
them  together  and  roll  in  sifted  flour ;  add  to  6  well-beaten  eggs  and 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  mix  well,  and  sift  in  a  pound  of 
flour.  Butter  long,  shallow  cake  pans,  put  the  batter  in  them  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done^  take  out,  roll  in  sugar  and  finely 
pounded  almonds.  Put  awayjn  a  tight  tin  box,  and  these  cakes  will 
keep  for  a  year. 

Jnmbles. — Take  a  half  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  three-quarters  pound  of  butter,  and  3  eggs.     Beat  the  butter 

and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  the  eggs  well  beat- 
en, then  a  tea!spoonful 
of  vahillaand  half  a  nut- 
meg grated,  then  the, 
flour,  wi^^h  1  teaspoon- 
Biscuit  and  Oake  Cutters.  ful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
half  3,  cup  of  milk.  Beat  the  whole  well  together  Dust  the  baking 
board  with  granulated  sugar  instead  of  flour ;  roll  out  the  mixture 
about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  with  a  round  cutter  ;  take 
the  centres  out  with  a  smallar  cutter;  thus  forming  rings.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  the  edges  are  a  delicate  brown. 

liemon  Jumbles. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream  and 
add  gradually  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar ;  add  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  9  tablespoonftils  flour.  Beat  all  to- 
gether, drop  in  rings  on  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking-pah  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    When  done,  roll  in  sugar  while  hot. 


CAKES.  393 

Qrandmother's  Jumbles. — One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3 
eggs,  the  gr'ated  rind  of  an  orange  or  lemon,  and  2  tabtespoonfula  of 
the  juice,  half  a  teaspdonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  juice.  Flour 
enough  to  roll.     Cut  out  centre  of  each  cake. 

Almond  Jumbles. — Beat  2  cups  sugar  and  1  ^  cups  butter  to  a 
smooth,  light  cream.  Add  6  eggs,  1  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly, 
Add  half  a  wine  glass  of  apricot  juice,  half  a  cup  of  cornstarch  and 
3  of  sifted  flour.  Blanch  and  chop  1  pound  of  almonds.  Boil  dough 
thin,  cut  with  jumble  cutter,  sprinkle  almonds  over  and  sift  with  pow- 
dered sugar.  Press  a  little  to  keep  the  nuts  in  place  Bake  in  quick 
oven,  with  buttered  paper  on  tins.  Rosewater  can  be  used  in  place 
of  the  apricot  juice. 

Cocoanut  Jumbles. — Stir  together  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
butter,  and  the  yolks,  of  2  eggs.  Add  1  grated  cocoanut  and  2jS^ 
cups  of  flour,  measured  before  sifting.  Last,  stir  in  lightly  the  whites 
of  6  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drop  in  rings  3  inches  across  on 
buttered  tins,  leaving  them  about  1  inch  apart.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven, 
first  dusting  the  top  with  grated  cocoanut. 

Fruit  Jumbles. — 'One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  half  cup  sour 
milk,  half  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  3  eggs,  half  grated  nutmeg,  S}4 
cups  flour,  1  cup  currents.  Bake  in  broad,  shallow  pans,  and  cut  in 
square  pieces  while  warm. 

Rolled  Coffee  Cakes.— ^Two  cups  of  bread  dough  when  ready 
for  the  balcing-pans,  4  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2  of  sugar,  the 
white  of  1  egg  beaten,  a  saltspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little 
water,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon.  Mix  and  roll 
out  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  spread  with  a  paste  made  by 
stirring  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  into  1  well-beaten  egg.  Roll  up 
like  jelly-cake,  cut  around  info  pieces  1  inch  thick.  Set  on  end  elose 
together  in  shallow  tins.  When  very  light  bake  in  a  rather  quick 
oven.    They  are  excellent  warm  or  cold. 

Peanut  Cakes. — One  pint  of  peanut  kernels  rolled  fine,  one-half 
pound  sugar,  3  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  8  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour.  Can  drop  on  greased  tins  or  roll  out  and  cut  in  round  shape 
and  bake.     These  are  very  good. 

Leb-Kuchen  (German). — A  favorite  confection  with  Germans. 
Four  eggs,  1  pound  of  sugar  (beat  in  one  direction  one-half  hour),  1 
pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  cruBhed  almonds,  quarts  pound  of 


394  CAKES. 

sliced  citron,  1  lemon,  grated  rind ;  1  orange,  peel ;  half  ounce  of 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  half  tea- 
spoonful  (scant)  baking  powder.  Stir  well,  roll  out  about  like  jum- 
bles, cut  jnto  square  cakes  and  bakfc.  When  cold,  spread  lightly 
with  frosting.  Some  cooks  add  molasses  or  honey  to  above  recipe, 
and  this  can  be  done  if  desired. 

German  Orange  Cake. — Beat  well  together  the  yolks  of  6  eggs, 
2  ounces  of  butter  that  has  been  creamed  and  a  half  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  a  stiff  froth.  Sift  to- 
gether a  half  pound  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Take  the  juice;  grated  rind  and  soft  pulp  of  3  oranges,  leaving  .out 
carefully  the  seed  and  tough  fibre.  Mix  as  follows :  First  stir  the 
oranges  into  the  suga,r,  butter  and  yolks;  then  put  in  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  the  flour  alternately.  Pour  quickly  into  little  pans,  and 
bake  in  an  oven  that  is  not  too  hot.  The  icing  may  be  made  without 
eggs,  which  is  a  great  convenience  for  a  Christmas  cake,  when  eggs 
are  alvvays  dear.  Add  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange  to  a  half  pound 
of  powdered  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  'water,  and  enough 
orange  juice  to  moisten  it  thoroughly...  Use  at  once.  It  is  better  to 
let  the  cakes  get  cool  before  beginning  to  make  this  icing. 

Zimmet  Kucben. — Shorten  simple  bread  dough  by  kneading  in 
fresh,  sweet  butter.  When  the  dough  and  butter  have  been  so  thor- 
oughly mixed  that  the  former  fairly  puffs  out  with  lightness,  you 
have  foundation  for  a  "kuchen."  Spread  the  dough  thinly  and 
evenly  in  a  long,  shallow  tin ;  cover  this  with  an  egg  beaten  briskly 
until  it  froths ;  over  this  drop  a  coating  of  granulated  sugar ;  drop 
little  lumps  of  sugar  here  and  there  and  sprinkle  liberally  all  over  the 
top  with  powdered  cinnamon.  Be  careful  to  leave  a  little  margin  of 
dough  all  th6  way  round  the  tin.  It  is  best  to  line  tin  with  confec- 
tioners' paper  or  grease  with  fresh  lard.  Let  this  mixture  rise  a  little 
while  before  puttitjg  it  into  the  brisk,  hot  oven,  in  which  it  must  pe 
baked  until  the  top  is  brown.  The  ingredients  on  the  top  of  the 
kuchen  will  all  run  together  and  melt  into  a  delicious  sort,  of  candied 
top.  Serve  kuchen  by  cutting  narrow  strips  (about  half  an  inch  wide) 
across  the  kuchen,  and  eat  it  like  a  stick  of  candy. 


Success  in  making  good  fried  cakes  depends 
as  much  on  the  cooking  as  on  the  mixing.  In 
the  first  place,  there  should  be  boiling  lard 
enough  to  free  them  from  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle,  so  that  they  swinj  on  the  top,  an4  the 
lard  should  never  be  so  hot  as  to  smoke  or  so  cool  as  jiot 
to  be  at  the  boiling  point ;  if  it  is,  they  soak  grease,  and 
are  spoiled.  If  it  is  at  the  right  heat,, the  doughnut  will  in 
about  10  minutes  be  of  a  delicate  brown  outside  and  nicely  cooked 
inside.  Five  or  six  minutes  will  cook  a  cruller.  Try  the  fat  by 
dropping  a  bit  of  the  dough  in  first ;  if  it  is  right,  the  fat  will  boil  up 
when  it  is  dropped  in.  They  should  be  turned  over  almost  con- 
stantly, which  causes  them  to  rise  and .  brown  evenly.  When  they 
are  sufficiently  cooked,  raise  them  from  the  hot  fat,  and  drain  them 
until  every  drop  ceases  dripping. 

Fried  cakes  shortened  with  butter  are  less  likely  to  absorb  fat 
than  those  shortened  with  lard.  After  fat  has  been  used  for  frying 
doughnuts  it  should  be  set  away  to  cool,  when  the  sediment  will  sink 
and  the  lard  may  be  removed  in  a  clean  cake.  If  very  much  scorched, 
clarify  by  boiling  a  few  slices  of  raw  potatoes  in  the  lard.  Fry  only 
a  few  at  a  time,  so  that  they  can  be  easily  turned.  A  mixture,  two- 
thirds  lard  and  one-third  suet,  is  a  wholesome  fat  for  frying  dough- 
nuts and  less  likely  to  soak  the  cake. 

Crullers. — Eight  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  4  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  nutmeg,  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough 
to  roll ;  cut  in  desired  shapes  and  braid  in  5  strands ;  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Roll  in  sugar. 

Cream  Crullers. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of 
cream,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  mixed  in  flour  enough 
to  roll  out  soft ;  cut  in  desired  shapes,  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard. 

Doughnuts. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  1  large  cup  granulated 
sugar,  one-half  a  nutmeg,  pinch  of  salt,  6  tablespoonfuls  melted  lard, 
1  quart  of  buttermilk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  to  make  a 

395 


3W  DOUGHNUTS  AND   CRULLERS, 

soft  dou|^h.  Roll  one-half  inch  thick,  and  fry  in  hot,  deep  krd 
While  hot  roll  them  in  powdered  sugar.  They  should  be  put  in  jars 
and  covered  while  warm. 

Dongrlinuts. — IL  Beat  2  eggs,  1)4  cups  of  sugar,  a  piijch  of  sal^ 
about  a  teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  lard  or 
butter  together,  then  add  2  cups  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  and  a 
heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll.  Have  it  as  soft  as 
you  can  handle  easily ;  fry  in  very  hot  lard.  Do  not  roll  too  thin,  as 
the  beauty  of  a  doughnut  is  to  have  it  plump.  Put  them  in  a  stone 
jar  or  a  covered  tin  pail  and  they  will  keep  moist  until  they  are  eaten. 
It  is  better  to  use  butter  for  shortening,  as  it  is  not  so  apt  to  soak  fat. 

Doiigluiuts  Without  Shortening;. — One  quart  of  flour  sifted  with 
1}4  teaspoonfuls  soda  and  3  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  1  cupful 
sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  mixed  of  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg,  if  spices  are  liked.  Mix  with  enough  sweet  milk 
to  roll  out.  Cut  in  round  cakes  and  cut  out  the  centre.  Three  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder  can  be  used  instead  of  creaan  of  tartar 
and  soda.  '     i  ' 

Fried  Pies. — Use  this  recipe  and  add  chopped  apples  (sour)  to 
the  dough.     Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Raised  Doughnuts. — Scald  1  pint  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg, 
half  cup  of  butter,  half  cup  of  water  with  half  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  it,  a  little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Have  the  milk 
lukewarm  and  mix  them  all  together  at  night.  Make  a  stiff  dough 
so  as  to  knead.  In  the  morning,  if  raised,  stir  down  and  let  it  rise 
again.  After  this  rising  roll  them  out  about  as  thick  as  other  dough- 
nuts, cut  with  a  round  cutter,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  and  cover  with 
another  and  let  them  rise  until  light.  Then  fry  and  roll  in  sugar. 
The  success  in  making  these  depends  on  the  temperature.  It  must 
be  uniform ;  that  is,  a  warm  place.  These  are  better  when  freshly 
made. 

Cream  Doughnuts. — Sift  1  quart  of  flour,  into  which  stir2  heaping 
teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  sift  again.  Beat 
2  eggs  very  light,  with  which  beat  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar  and  1 
cup  of  thin  sweet  cream.  Stir  in  the  flour,  leaving  enough  to  use  in 
moulding.  Handle  as  little  as  possible.  If  cream  is  not  easily  ot 
tained,  use  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  tablespoon  of  hot  lard.  Sou* 
cream  and  soda  may  be  used. 


DOUGHNUTS  AND  CRULLERS.  3»t 

Balsed  Doughnuts.— IL  Haifa  pound  ofbutter,!  pound  of  sugar, 
i  quart  of  sweet  milk,  1  large  cup  of  yeast,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of 
mixed  spice,  equal  quantities  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves 
and  mace,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Make  a  sponge  of  the  butter, 
sugar,  milk,  yeast,  salt  and  three  pints  of  flour.  Let  it 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  the  eggs  and  spice 
and  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  bread  dough.  Let 
it  rise  again,  roll  into  a  thick  sheet,  cut  (^u£  and  fry  in  lard 
boiling  hot.  To  test  the  fat  to  see  if  hot  enough,*  put  in  Jumble 
a  little  piece  of  the  dough.  If  hot  enough,  the  small  Cutter, 
piece  will  soon  rise  to  the  top.  Make  the  cake?  in  any  shape  with  a 
cutter,  or  cut  in- small  strips  and  twist 

Raised  Coffee  Doughnuts. — One  quart  oi  lukewarm  milk,  or 
half  water  and  milk,  half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  it,  1  large  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as 
bread,  but  not  kneaded ;  stir  with  a  spoon  quite  stiff;  raise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drop  from  a  knife  or  spoon  into  boiling  fat.  Knead- 
ing makes  them  too  hard.  Serve  hot  with  coffee.  Use  a  larger 
quantity  of  sugar  if  more  palatable. 

Molasses  Doughnuts. — One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sour  milk, 
1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  very  little  ginger,  a  little  salt  and  nut- 
meg; enough  flour  to  roll  soft.    Very  nice. 

Graham  Doughnuts. — Two  cupfuls  buttermilk,  teaspoonful  soda, 
1  cupful  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  1  egg, 
Graham  flour  to  roll  out ;  cinnamon  to  flavor,  or  nutmeg ;  water,  or 
sweet  milk  and  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  may  be  substituted 
for  the  sour  milk  and  soda. 

ludlan-Meal  Doughnuts. — One  and  a  half  cupfuls  boiling  sweet 
milk  poured  over  2  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal,  when  cool  add  2  cupfuls 
wheat  flour,  1}4  cupfuls  sugar,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  half 
teaspoonful  salt;  1  egg  is  a  great  addition,  but  can  be  omitted;  1  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon  if  liked.  If  more  flour  is  needed,  add  Indian  meal 
and  flour  in  equal  parts.  Roll  half  inch  thick,  cut  m  small  squares 
or  diamonds  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Love  XLuots. — One  egg,  4  tablespoonfuls  sweCt  cream,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  pinch  of  salt;  flour  to  knead  verj' bard;  roll  out 
cut  in  nawow  strips.  Tie  each  one  in  two  or  three  kaota  wi4  frv  t» 
hot  lard ;  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  while  hot 


Cookies  are  put  together  with  less  care 
than  more  elaborate  cakes,  and  the  eggs 
are  not  beaten  separately.  Drippings,  cla- 
rified, can  sometimes  be  used  for  shortening 
instead  of  butter.  Bake  sausage  in  the 
oven  instead  of  frying,  and  the  drippiiigs 
will  be  white  and  clear. 

Sugar  Cookies. — One  cup  of  sour  milk,  one-half  ctip 

'-     '         of  butter,  2  cups  of , sugar,  even  teaspoOn  of  soda,  pinch 

of  salt,  nutmeg,  and  flour  to  fenead  quite  stiff    Roll  out,  and  sprinkle 

sugar  over  the  top,  and  run  your  roller  lightly  over  before  cutting 

in  fancy  shapes.    Bake  in  quick  oven.     Drippings  can  be  used. 

Peerless  Cookies. — Three  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  and  two-thirds 
cup  melted  butter,  beaten  well  together ;  add  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  into  1  quart  sifted  flour.  If 
this  is  not  sufficient  to  roll  stiff  add  more  flour.  Roll  granulated 
sugar  o«  top  of  cookies  before  baking.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  on  the 
board,  and  roll  the  dough  over  it. 

ligrgless  Cookies. — Half  cupful  sweet  milk,  one-third  teaspoonful 
soda  dissolved  in  the  milk;  three-quarters  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 
sifted  with  part  of  the  flour ;  1  cupful  sugar,  one-third  cupful  butter ; 
flour  to  roll  thin.  Cut  with  a  cake  cutter,  and  bake  in,  a  quick  oven. 
Sour  milk  and  soda  may  be  used,  or  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 
may  be  substituted  for  cream  tartar  and  soda.-  Drippings  may  be 
used  instead  of  butter.    Flavor  or  spice  to  the  taste. 

Cream  Cookies. — Dissolve  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  warm 
water,  and  add  to  1  cup  of  sour  cream.  Cream  1  cup  of  butter  with 
2  of  sugar,  and  add  2  eggs,  beaten  light,  without  separating,  and  the 
sour  cream.  Mix  smooth,  with  S}4  cups  of  flour.  Have  this  mix- ; 
ture  as  soft  as  possible ;  roll  out,  and  cut  very  nicely.  Bake  inf 
greased  pans  in  a  moderately  quick  oven:  ( 

Ideal  Cookies. — Two  cupfuls  sugar,  half  cupful  butter,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  cinnamon,  one-half  grated  nutmeg ;  cream  all  together ;  add 
398 


COOKIES,  GINGERBREAD  AND  SNAPS.  399 

2  well-beaten  eggs ;  beat  well,  and  fTpur  in  half  cupful  of  milk ;  add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  handled,  sifting  2  tea^ 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  part  of  the  flour.  Flour  yout 
hands,  and  take  bits  of  the  dough  and  shape  them  into  balls  between 
the  palms.  Throw  each  ball  into  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and 
shake  until  the  ball  is  thoroughly  coated.  Place  these  balls  on  a 
well-greased  baking  tin,  and  they  will  spread  out  into 
regulation-sized  cookies.  Place  them  on  the  floor  of  the 
oven  at  f^rst.  ,  Bake  them  a  very  pale  brown.  Pack  away 
at  once,  between  napkins,  in  a  jar  or  cake  box.  Run  a 
thin,  broad  knife  under  them  to  loosen  them  from  the 
pan,  and  they  will  not  break.  They  ought  to  come  from  Coolde 
the  oven  spicy  and  sparkling,  and  cracked  all  over,  like  Cutter, 
macaroons. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. — To  1  large  coffee  cup  of  cold  boiled  oatmeal, 
allow  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  ciip  of  white  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of.  soda,  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Roll  out  thin,  and  cut  out  the  same  as  cookies."^    Bake  in  hot  oven, 

Graham  Cookies. — Two  cupfuls  sugar,  2  cupfuls  sour  cream,  1 
cupful  fine  flour,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  Graham 
flour  sufficient  to  roll  out  soft  as  possible. 

Dominoes. — Take  any  preferred  rule  of  cookies.  Cut  the  dough 
in  oblongs  to  represent  dominoes,  frost  them  with  white  icing  when 
done,  and  make  the  dots  and  dividing  lines  of  melted  chocolate  to 
represent  dominoes.  Children  are  delighted  with  these  cakes,  and 
they  are  especially  nice  for  children's  parties. 

Seed  Cookies. — One  cup  of  butter,  2  of  white  sugar,  3  eggs,  1 
tablespoonful  caraway  seed,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  paste. 
Sprinkle  the  board  with  sugar,  roll  out  the  dough  very  thin,  and  cut 
it  in  rounds.  Bake  about  15  minutes.  They  should  be  crisp,  like  an 
old-fashioned  ginger-snap,  and  will  improve  with  keeping.  If  you 
wish  them  soft,  as  some  people  do,  keep  them  in  a  stone  jar  in  a  cold 
place ;  but  if  you  wish  them  crisp,  keep  them  in  a  tin  box  in  a  per- 
fectly dry,  but  not  a  hot  place. 

liemon  Cookies. — One  quart  of  flour,  1  cupful  of  butter,  1  pint 
of  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  2  tablespoonftils  of  cold  water,  gratted  yellow  rind  of  the 
lemon.    They  can  be  rolled  in  granulated  sugar  or  frosted. 


400  COOKIES,  GINGERBREAD  AND  SNAPS. 

Water  Cookies. — One  cupful  sugar,  one-half  cupful  butter,  1  cup- 
ful cold  water,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Spiee,  or  ila* 
voring  extract  to  taste.     Flour  to  roll  out. 

Coriander  Cookies. — One  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup 
"loppered"  milk  or  cream,  4  eggs,  7  cups  flour,  or  just  enough  to 
stiffen  into  a  rollable  paste  ;  2  tablespoonfuls  coriander  seed  (ground 
or  beaten),  1  tablespooniiil  of  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  If 
you  use  sweet  milk,  add  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  You  may- 
substitute  caraway  for  the  coriander  seed. 

Chocolate  Cookies.-^— Beat  to  a  cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter. 
Gradually  beat  into  this  1  cupful  of  sugar,  add  a  little  salt,  a  little 
cinnamon  and  2  ounces  of  melted  chocolate.  Now  add  1  well-beaten 
egg  and  a  half  teaspooi^ful  of  so^  dissolved  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  add  2y^  cups  of  flour,  roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Peanut  Cookies. — Cream  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  table^oons  of 
sugar,  1  egg,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  baking  pow- 
der, 1  saltspoon  of  salt,  2. tablespoons  of  milk;  add  1  pint  of  peanuts, 
shelled  and  chopped  fine.  Drop  by.  teaspoonful  on  the  buttered 
sheets.  Place  one-half  a  nut  on  top  of  each  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
12  or  15  minutes. 

Date  Cookieis. — One  large  cup  of  dates,  stoned  and  cut  in  small 
pieces,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  a  little  salt,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter 
or .  lard,  or  half  of  each,  little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  2  cups  of  flour  sifted  together  with  1  teaspoon  of 
soda  and  2  of  cream  of  tartar ;  then  add  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk 
or  water ;  use  more  flour  if  needed,  roll  quite  thin  and  bake  in  rather 
quick  oven.  . 

Pruit  Cookies.— rOne  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  molasses,  1  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  saleratus,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cin- 
namon, clove  and  nutmeg,  little  salt,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  enough 
flour  to  make  considerably  stifier  than  cake ;  drop  on  a  buttered  tin, 
spread  out  a  little,  bake  quickly.    Very  nice.       ,  ^ 

Frosted  Cookies. — One-half  cupful  butter,  1  cupful  sugar,  2  eggs, 
omitting  1  white,  one-l^alf  teaspoon  soda,  1  cupful  sweet  milk  and 
water,  1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Plavor  to  suit.  One  teaspoon- 
ful baking  powder  can  be  used  instead  of  cream  of  tartar  and  so<]«. 
Flour  eufiiiciept  to  roll  out.    Sift  the  baking  powder  with  some  »f  the 


COOKIES,  GINGERBREAD  AND  SNAPS.  401 

flour.    'Bake,  and  when  cool  frost  with  the  remaining  white  of  an  egg 
beaten  to  a  froth  and  stirred  stiff  with  powdered  sugar. 

Gingerbreads. 

Yolks  of  eggs  are  very  nice  added  to  gingerbread,  and  where  they 
are  left  over  from  other  cakes  and  frostings,  they  can  be  added  with 
great  advantage  to  gingerbread.  Fruits  of  all  kinds,  raisins,  etc.,  are 
also  great  additions.  Ginger  can  be  modified  by  the  addition  of  other 
spices,  or  omitted,  and  cinnamon  or  other  spices  used  instead. 

Spongre  Gingerbread. — One  cupful  sugar,  1  cupful  of  nlolasses,  1 
cupful  butter,  or  butter  and  lard,  1  cupful  of  sour  milk,  4  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately,  1  cupful  of  raisins,  if  wished,  4  cupfuls 
of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
the  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  In  place  of  sour  milk  and  soda, 
sweet  milk  and  baking  powder  or  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  may  be 
used. 

Spongre  Gingerbread. — II.  One  pint  of  molasses,  1  dessertspoon 
fif  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger,  4  large  cooking  spoons  of  shortening 
melted  (I  use  half  lard  and  half  butter).  Beat  the  soda  and  ginger 
into  the  molasses,  and  then.the  shortening,  and  a  little  salt ;  then  add 
one-half  pint  scant  of  hot  water,  flour  to  roll,  make  about  as  thick  as 
doughnuts,  and  roll  about  as  thin.  Crease  like  cookies,  cut  in  squares 
about  4  or  5  inches,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  A  tempting  cake  for 
the  ladies  to  try. 

Cream  Gingerbread. — Mix  a  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  of 
sour  cream,  2  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  and  1  of  cream  of  tartar,  2  tablespoonfuls  or  more  of  ginger. 
If  you  have  no  sour  cream,  use  half  a  cup  of  lard  or  beef  drippings 
and  butter  mixedj  and  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder 
instead  of  soda. 

Cream  Gingerbread. — II.  One  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  o/ 
soda  dissolved  in  the  cream,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger, 
-1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2%  cups  of  flour. 

Maple  Molasses  Gingerbread. — One  cupful  of  boiling  water,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size,  of  an  egg,  1  cupful  of  maple  molasses,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  2  cupfuls  of 
flour.  Common  molasses  may  be  substituted  for  the  maple  molMSM, 
but  the  flavor  will  not  be  the  same. 

COOK— 36 


402  COOKIES,  GINGERBREAD  AND  SNAPS. 

Poverty  Gingerbread. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  1^ 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  fried  pork  fat,  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  1 
teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little  salt ;  put  into  a  teacup  and  fill  the  cup  with 
best  molasses  (Porto  Rico,  I  use) ;  then  add  flour  to  make  not  very 
stiff;  makes  1  good-sized  cake.  This  rule  is  50  years  old,  and  has 
'always  given  satisfaction. 

Date  Gingerbread. — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  half 
cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  teaspoon  of 
soda,  a  tablespoon  of  ginger,  a  pinch  of  mustard  and  2  scant  cups  of 
flour,  1  lafge  cup  of  chopped  dates ;  bake  about  20  minutes. 

Fruit  GingerT>read.-^Two  cupfuls  unsifted  flour,  1  cupful  coffee 
sugar,  1  cupful  molasses^  half  cupful  butter,  one-quarter  cupful  sour 
cream  or  milk,^  3  eggs,  half  pound  chopped  raisins,  half  pound  currants, 
1  level  teaspoonful  soda,  1  tablespoonful  ginger,  half  teaspoonful 
cloves.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  warm  the  molasses  and  add  them 
together  with  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk, 
the  flour,  spice,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Dredge  the  fruit  with 
flour  and  add.  Beat  all  well.  Bake  in  two  loaves.  This  will  keep  a 
long  time. 

Old-fiashioned  Gingerbread. — Cream  a  cupful  of  good  butter  and 
add  to  it  gradually  2  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar.  When  as  light  as 
possible,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  a  cupful  of  milk  in  which  three* 
quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  then  4  cup- 
fuls of  sifted  flour,  adding  it  gradually.  Butter  a  large  baking  tin 
thoroughly,  spread  the  batter  very  thin,  and  bake  brown  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Cut  these  while  quite  hot  into  squares,  and  take  them 
from  the  pan.  '  ■ 

Soft  Gingerbread.- — One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  boiling  water, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  or  lard  in  the  hot  water,  half  teaspoon  of 
soda,'half  teaspoon  of  ginger,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  thin 
as  griddle  cakes. 

Ginger  Layer  Cake.— One  cupful  njolasses,  2  egg  yolks,  three- 
quarters  teaspoonful  -soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water.  Butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoonful  giqger,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  half 
teaspoonful  allspice.  Bake  in  layers,  and  put  together  with  frosting 
made  from  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Card  Gingerbread. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sour 
milk,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  egg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1 


COOKIES,  GINGERBREAD  AND  SNAPS. 


403 


teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one-fourth  teaspoonTul  of  salt.  Add  one-half 
tablespoonful  of  water  and  3  scant  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  the 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  salt  and  ginger,  now  the 
egg  well  beaten.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  water  and  stir  into  the 
sour  milk  and  add  to  the  mixture  in  the  bowl.  Beat  the  flour  in  grad- 
ually. Take  one-half <the  dough  and  roll  out  about  half  an  inch 
thick.     Cut  in  squares  and  bake  about  8  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Ginger  Kuts. — One  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses  should  be 
seasoned  with  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  cinnamon,  the  same  of  black 
pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  and  the  grated  rinds  of  2 
oranges  and  a  lemott,  stirred  well  together,  and  let  stand  a  day.  Then 
mix  with  it  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter,  4  teaspopnfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and  a  large  spoonful  pf  lard.  RoU  into  strips  as  thick  as 
your  finger,  and  cut  into  nuts  half  an  inch  long.  Bake  brown,  and 
keep  apart  so  that  they  will  not  stick. 

Grlngrer  Cakes. — Mix  half  a  cupful  of  butter  and  lard  each.  Dis- 
solve a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water,  and  stic 
into  it  a  cupful  of 
molasses;  add  to 
the  butter  and  lard, 
a  teaspoonful  of 
extract  of  ginger 
and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon ; 
mix  well;  pour 
over  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing coffee,  and  add 
flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  -  Roll  out 
half  an  inch  thick, 
cut  with  a  round  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  15  minutes. 

Ginger  Gems. — Beat  half  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  heat  slightly 
1  cup  of  molasses;  add  to  it  half  cup  of  boiling  water;  take  all  from 
the  fire,  and  add  half  teaspoon  of  soda ;  pour  this  over  the  butter ; 
add  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  batter  that 
will  drop  from  a  spoon  (about  1  j4  cups) ;  add  a  level  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  same  of  baking  powder,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  gem  pans 
an  a  moderate  oven. 


Nutmeg  Qrater. 


■504  COOKIES,  GINGERBREAD  AND  SNAPS. 

Soft  Molasses  Cookles.-^Two  cups  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1 

cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  1  egg;  2 

teaspoons  of  soda,  tablespoon  of  ginger,  9  cups  of  flour;  don't  get 

batter  too  stiff,  but  soft  as  you  can  handle.     Half  pint  cup  is  used  in 

-this  recipe. 

Spiced  Molasses  Cookies. — One  Cup  molaSses,  half  cup  of  butter, 
half  cup  of  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar; 
mix  all  together  and  boil ;  let  cool,  and  mix  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  till 
it  foams ;  1  teaspoon  o£  ginger,  half  teaspoon  of  allspice,  half  teaspoon 
of  cloves ;  one-half  nutmeg ;  mix  into  a  dough  that-can  be  rolfed  out; 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  on  floured  tin  10  minutes.    Veiy  nice. 

Vinegar  Molasses  Cookies  (no  shortening).; — One  large  cup  of 
molasses,  1  medium  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  salt,  little  vanilla,  any  kind 
of  spice'  preferred.  I  .use  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  3  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll;  sift  soda 
in  flour.     They  will  be  brittle  and  nice. 

Drop  Ginger  Cookies. — One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
butter,  1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  cream 
of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  saleratus,  a  little  salt,  flour  to  stiffen ;  bake  in 
cups  or  small  tins,  or  drop  from  a  teaspoon  into  a  buttered  baking 
pan.  Leave  about  3  inches  space  between  the  cakes,  so  that  they 
have  room  to  spread. 

Ginger-snaps  (that  wUl  keep  Hard). — One  cupful  btitter,  1 
cupful  lard,  1  cupful  brown  sugar,  1  pint  molasses,  1  cupful  butter- 
milk, 2  level  teaspponfuls  soda,  2  cupfuls  flour ;  use  more,  if  neces- 
sary, to  roll  out ;  1  tablespoonful  ginger,  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon 
and  allspice  mixed.  This  is  a  large  rule ;  half  of  it  will  be  enough 
-for  an  ordinary  family. 
I  Our  Ginger  Snaps. — 1  cupful  sugar,  2  cupfuls  molasses,  half 
cupful  butter,  half  cupful  lard,  1  cupful  warm  -water,  1  teaspoonful 
soda,  1  teaspoonful  each  ginger  and  cinnamon,  1  whole  nutmeg, 
crated ;  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 

Ginger  Snaps.^One-half  cup  of  butter,  half  cup  of  lard,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
1  of  soda,  1  of  vinegar,  half  cup  of  milk-  Put  all  but  soda  and  milk 
in  tin  on  stove ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  when  it  has  stood  a  moment 
off  the  stove,  add  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  thin. 


Puddings  are  prepared  in  many  ways,  be- 
ing either  boiled,  steamed  or  baked.     Boiled 
puddings  are  lighter  when  boiled  in  a  cloth, 
'i|||(||||P''''ni|||ii|l'"'  sufficient  room  being  allowed  for  the  contents 

illjij.  "!'Sj'ii7||l||illiiiiii"'       to  swell,    A  good  'pudding  bag  may  be  made  of  firm 
1  ilC  *  white  drilling,  tapering  from   top  to  bottom  and 

rounded  on  the  corners.  Sew  up  on  the  machine, 
and  fell  the  seams,  which  should  be  on  the  outside  when  used.  A  tape 
for  tying  may  be  fastened  to  one  seam  a  little  way  from  the  top. 

The  materials  must  be  well  worked  together.  Put  in  the  bag 
which  must  have  first  been  dipped  in  hot  water,  slightly  wrung  out 
and  floured  bountifully  on  the  inside,  being  sure  that  the  opening  has 
its  share  to  prevent  water  ehtering.  This  flour  forms  a  sort  of  paste 
that  excludes  the  water  and  prevents  the  pudding  sticking  to  the  bag. 
Remember  that  rice,  meal,  bread  crumbs,  etc.,  swell  a  great  deal,  and 
leave  plenty  of  space  in  tying. 

Put  an  inverted  saucer  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  the 
pudding  burning  or  adhering  to  the  kettle.  Then  put  in  the  pudding 
and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cover  the  kettle  and  keep  the  water 
boiling.-  If  it  stops  for  an  instant,  the  pudding  will  be  heavy.  Add- 
more  water  CEU-efuUy  as  it  is  needed,  always  from  a  boiling  tea-kettle, 
being  sure  that  the  pudding  bag  is  constantly  covered.  .  Move  the 
b^g  once  or  twice  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 

When  done,  dip  the  bag  quickly  in  cold  water,  untie  and  turn  the 
pudding  out.  This  should  be  done  just  before  serving.  Same  rule 
applies  to  dumplings.  If  a  tin  pudding  mould  or  an  earthen  bowl  is 
used  instead  of  a  cloth  or  bag,  grease  well  both  mould  and  cover. 
Lard  is  better  than  butter -for  this  because  it  is  free  from  salt.  If  a 
bowl  is  used,  butter  it  well,  and  not  quite  fill  with  the  pudding  mix- 
ture, leaving  room  to  swell.  Wet  a  cloth  in  hot  water,  flour  on  inner 
side  and  tie  tightly  over  the  bowl,  meeting  under  the  bottom.  If  a 
tin  pait  is  used,  butter,  put  in  the  pudding  mixture,  place  a  floured 
cloth  over  the  top  and  then  press  on  the  pail  cover.    If  mould,  paif 

40S 


406  PUDDINGS. 

or  bowl  is  used,  the  water  sl^ould  not  quite  reach  the  top.  When 
done,  plunge  for  a  moment  in  cold  water,  turn  out  and  serve  immedi- 
ately. 

To  steam  a  pudding  put  it  in  a  tin  pan  or  an  earthen  dish,  tie  a 
cloth  over  the  top,  dredged  with  flour,  and  set  in  the  steamer.  This 
cloth  is  not  always  necessary,  and,  indeed,  where  the  pudding  is  very 
light  and  rises  above  the  mould,  the  cloth  would  be  in  the  way.  The 
steamer  lid  should  conduct  the  steam  safely  down  the  sides  of  the 
steamer. 

Steamed  puddings  have  many  advantages  over  boiled  ones,  being 
lighter,  more  digestible  and  capable  of  being  re-heated  by  steaming 
for  the  next  day.  Cover  the  steamer  closely.  Never  uncover  it 
while  cooking,  and  keep  the  water  under  the  steamer  cbnstantly  boil- 
ing. Do  not  jar  the  kettle  while  the  pudding  is  cooking.  Boiled  or 
steanied  puddings  take  about  twice  as  long  to  cook  as  baked  ones. 

Puddings  boiled  in  a  mould  or  basin  do  not  need  quite  as  stiff  a 
batter  as  those  boiled  in  a  bag.  Never  wash  a  pudding'  bag  with 
soap.  Use  simply  clean,  clear  water,  drying  quickly  and  keep  in  a 
clean  place.  Any  pudding  made  from  suet  must  be  eaten  as  warm  as 
possible,  since  if  cool  the  suet  hardens  and  becomes  somewhat  "  tal- 
lowy." To  add  the  fruit  to  a  bakec^  pudding  after  it  has  begun  to 
thicken  in  the  oven  will  keep  it  from  settling  to  the  bottom  of  the 
dish.  Many  baked  pudding  -recipes  are  quite  as  good  boiled  or 
steamed.  '     - 

Pudding  Sauces. 

Unfermented  fruit  juice  may  be  used  for  flavoring  pudding  sauces, 
instead  of  wine  or  brandy.  The  juice  from  canned  or  stewed  fruit 
may  be  used,  if  none  has  been  specially  prepared.  In  some  cases, 
where  wine  is  given  in  a  recipe,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  may  be  substi- 
tuted, or  a  glass  of  rose  water. 

Hard  Sauce. — I.  Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  creamed  to- 
gether, the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  to  butter  and 
sugar  and  beat  lightly  until  thoroughly,  mixed ;  divided  into  3  parts, 
flavor  1  part  with  vanilla,  1  part  with  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa, 
about  2  teaspoons,  and  1  part  with  extract  of  strawberry,  so  that  the 
3  parts  will  be  different  col9rs.  Butter  the  mould  or  bowl.  Put  in 
the  chocolate,  then  the  vanilla  and  lastly  the  strawberly ;  set  away  to 
cool ;  when  ready  to  serve,  dip  the  sides  of  the  mould  in  hot  water. 


.PUDDINGS.  407 

turn  out  on  a  plate,  cut  through  it  in  slices  and  lay  on  each  portion 
of  the  pudding.     Very  fine  and  ornamental. 

Hard  Sauce. — II.  Beat  1  cup  of  powdered  white  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  butter  together  until  thoroughly  mixed ;  the  longer  it  is 
beaten  the  whiter  it  becomes.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg  or  grated 
orange  or  lemon  peel.  Instead  it  may  be  flavored  while  beating, and, 
may  be  colored  by  the  addition  of  fruit  juices.  Vanilla  may  be  used 
for  flavoring. 

Gold  Sauce  (Hard). — One-half  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  1 
cupful  of  brown  sugar.  Smooth  in  .shape  and  grate  nutmeg  over  the 
top.  The  yolk  of  1  egg  may  be  beaten  up  with  it,  and  is  a  very  nice 
addition. 

Hard  Sauce  (Silver). — Half  cup  of  butter,  creamed  with  1  cup  of 
powdered  sugar.  Flavor  with  lemon  juice  or  lemon  extract.  The 
stiffly-beaten  white  of  an  egg  stirred  in  with  this  is  an  improvement. 
Mound  it  up  nicely  in  a  pretty  dish.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  until  served. 

Creamy  Sauce. — Beat  4  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add 
gradually  8  ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  again  until  very,  very 
light,  and  add  gradually  1  gill  of  cream,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.     Turn  into  a  dish  and  let  harden. 

Beehive  Sauce. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  fine  sugar, 
juice  and  peel  of  1  lemon,  half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  extract,  quarter 
cup  of  cranberry  syrup;  make/ hard  sauce  in  the  usual  way  by  cream- 
ing the  butter  and  sugar;  before  adding  the  flavoring  take  out  3  table- 
spoons to  be  colored,  add  lemon  and  spice  to  the  larger  quantity; 
color  the  less  by, beating  in  the  cranberry  syrup  until  it  is  a  rich  pink; 
shape  the  white  sauce  into  a  conical  mound,  roll  a  sheet  of  note  paper ' 
into  a  long,  narrow  funnel,  tie  a  string  around  it  to  keep  it  in  shape, 
fill  with  colored  sauce ;  squeeze  it  gently  through  the  small  end,  be- 
ginning at  the  base,  and  winding  round  the  cone  to  the  top,  guiding 
it  so  the  white  will  show  prettily  between  the  pink  ridges.  The 
"effect  is  pleasing.     Serve  very  cold. 

Plain  Fruit  Pudding  Sauce. — One  cupful  brown  sugar,  1  cupful 
good  molasses,  half  cupful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour;  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  half  grated  nutmeg>  half  teaspoonful  cinna- 
mon, 1  teacupful  boiling  water.  Stir  all  the  ingredients  together, 
adding  the  water  last.  Put  in  a  saucepan  and  let  boil  until  clear, 
stirring  constantly.    Straining  is  an  improvement. 


408  PUDDINGS. 

Caramel  Sauce. — Put  half  cup  of  sugar  in  1  pan,  stir  over  fire  till" 
melted  and  light  brown,  add  half  cup  boiling  water  and  simmer  10 
minutes.     Flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla  or  rose-water.  ^ 

Plain  Cornstarch  Sauce. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful 
cornstarch,  half  cupful  butter,  1  teaspoonful  vaniila,  1  teaspoonful 
lemon  extract.  Stir  together.  Add  boiling  water  until  the  required 
consistency;  stirring  constantly;  half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  and  half 
teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg  may  be  used  in  place  of  lemon  and  vanilla. 

Egg  Sauce. — Tivo  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch ;  1  large  cupful  sugar ; 
2  eggs,  beaten  separately;  pinch  of  salt;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  1 
quart  boiling  water.  Stir  together,  reserving  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Cook  until  thickened.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  through  the 
sauce.     Nice  for  steamed  puddings. 

Foaming'  Sauce. — Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg ;  beat  to- 
gether very  light  with  half  a  wineglass  of  sherry  wine.  Just  before 
sending  to  the  table  add  half  a  cup  of  boiling  milk.  For  all  kinds  of 
puddings,  very  nice.     Boiling  water  may  be  used  instead  of  milk. 

Wine  Sauce. — One  cupful  of  butter,  2  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a 
cupful  of  wine.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  when  very  light  add 
the  wine,  which  has  been  made  hot,  a  little  at  a  time.  Place  the  bowl 
in  a  basin  bf  hot  water  and  stir  for  2  minutes.  The  sauce  should  be 
smooth  and  foamy. 

Brandy  Sauce. — One  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  water,  1  =^  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  wet  with  cold  water ;  stir  it  in  the  milk  and 
water,  boil  5  minutes,  add  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  juice  of  lemon,  wineglass  of  brandy. 

licmonSauce. — One  cupful  sugar,  half  cupful  butter,  1  egg,  well 
beaten;  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind;  1  cupful  boiling  water. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
beat,  then  stir  in  the  boiling  water.  Put  in  a  tin  pail  and  keep  hot 
over  steam.     Niqe  for  steamed  puddings  or  dumplings. 

PuddiQgs. 
Ancestral  English  Plum  Pudding. — One  pound  of  raisins, 
stoned ;  1  pound  currants,  washed ;  1  pound  chopped  suet,  rubbed  with 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  1  pound  sugar ;  1  pound  bread  crumbs ; 
half  pound  blanched  almonds,  chopped ;  1  ounce  grated  nutmeg ;  1 
tablespoonful  salt;  2  ounces  citron,  chopped ;  1  ounce  Iwnon  peel, 


PUDDINGS.  40» 

9liredd«d ;  1  ounce  orange  peel,  shredded.  Mix  these  ingredients.  It 
will  be  a  saving  of  time  to  prepare  this  a  day  or  two  beforehand.  Cover 
the  bowl  air-tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  If  wine  is  used  in  the 
family,  pour  over  all  1  cupful  of  sherry  wine  before  putting  away.  A 
glass  of  rosewater  may  be  substituted.  When  ready  to  cook  the  pud- 
ding, add  one-half  pound  of  flour,  8  well-beaten  eggs,  and  sufficient 
thin  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk  to  moisten  the  mixture  sufficiently. 
Boil  or  steam  6  or  8  hours.  Serve  hot  with  vanilla  sauce,  hard 
sauce,  wine  or  brandy  sauce. 

English  Plum  Padding. — Two  pounds  currants,  2  pounds  stoned- 
chopped  raisins,  1  pound  chopped  suet,  1  pound  brown  sugar,  1  pound 
sifted  flour,  half  pound  chopped  citron,  half  pound  fine  bread  crumbs, 
1  large  cupful  molasses,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
half  teaspoonful  cloves,  3  grated  nutmegs,  2  tablespoonfuls  baking 
powder,-  8  eggs,  juice  of  3  lemons,  1  cupful  of  brandy.  One  wine 
glass  of  rosewater  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  brandy,  or  it  may  be 
entirely  omitted.  Mix  the  flour,  sugar  and  spices  and  molasses,  then 
add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  next  the  suet  and  juice  of  lemons,  then  the 
fruit ;  mix  well ;  next  add  the  2  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and 
the  brandy,  the  mixture  to  be  quite  stiff.  If  there  is  not  sufficient 
moisture,  use  a  little  rich,  sweet  milk  to  thin  it.  Then  put  in  a  well- 
greased  mould  or  a  large  tin  pail,  keep  covered  tightly,  steam  10 
hours ;  as  the  water  evaporates  add  more ;  it  is  very  excellent,  having 
been  used  in  one  family  more  than  50  years. 

Thanksgiving  Pudding. — Twelve  crackers  rolled  and  soaked 
over  night  in  2  quarts  of  milk.  In  the  morning  add  4  well-beaten 
eggs,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  pound  boiled  and  seeded  Sraisins,  half 
pound  sliced  citron  (half  pound  of  currants  may  be  substituted  for 
the  citron),  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful 
grated  nutmeg,  half  teaspoonful  cloves,  1  tablespoonful  butter.  Bake 
slowly  4  hours  in  buttered  pudding  dish. 

Sauce. — Beat  whites  of  4  eggs  light,  but  not  stiff,  add  2  cups  of 
powdered  sugar'  and  2  small  teaspoons  of  vanilla.  Turn  over  this  2 
cups  of  boiling  milk.  Lemon  juice  is  nice  if  vanilla  is  disliked. 
Beehive  Sauce  may  used,  or  Hard  Sauce,  No.  I. 

Bread  and  Fruit  Pudding. — Butter  stale  slices  of  bread  ;  lay  in 
pudding  dish  alternately  with  canned  cherries  or  berries,  or  stewed 
«pples  ;.  bake  half  an  hour ;    serve  with  sauce,  like  cottage  pudding. 


410  PUDDINGS. 

Let  the  fruit  form  the  top  layer.     Canned  fruit  of  any  kind  is  nice- 
for  this. 

Boly-Poly  Padding. — One  pint  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  three-quarters 
cup  of  milk.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  chop  in  the  butter, 
stir  in  the  milk  till  stiff  enough  to  roll  out,  roll  out  in  a  square,  spread 
with  butter  and  jelly  or  jam  of  any  kind,  roll  it  up  and  steam  half  aii 
hour.     Serve  with  lemon  or  vanilla  sauce.  ' 

Whortleberry  Pudding'. — Take  a  pint  of  milk,  4  eggs,  well 
beatenj  12  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Stir  them  well  together, 
then  add  3  quarts  of  berries.  Flour  a  cloth,  tie  the  pudding  in  it 
very  close,  and  boil  it  2)^  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce.  ' 

Strawberry  Pudding. — 1  pint  of  milk,  3^  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs, 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  pint  of  strawberries,  Beat  the  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  together,  until  light,  then  add  the  milk,  then  the 
flour,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Then  add  the  butter,  melted,  salt  and 
baking  powder.  Drain  the  berries,  dredge  them  with  flour.  Stir 
them  into  the  pudding  and  turn  into  a  greased  pudding  mould.  Cover 
and  stand  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  continuously  for  3  hours. 
If  the  water  evaporates  in  the  pot  replenish  with  boiling.  Serve  with 
butter, -or  any  preferred  sauce. 

Indian  Pudding,  Baked. — Scald  1  quart  of  milk ;  thicken  when 
partly  cool  with  1  cup  of  Indian  corn-meal,  2  beaten  eggs,  1  table- 
spoonful wheat  flour,  1  cup  of  molasses  or  1  cup  of  sugar  (molasses 
is  best).  Salt  and  ginger  to  taste.  Turn  over  it  inthe  pudding  dish 
1  cup  of  cold  milk.  Do  not  stir  it  afterward.  Bake  slowly  2  or 
8  hours.  .^ 

Plain  Batter  Pudding. — One  cup  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  half 
cup  of  molasses,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  2^  cupfuls  flour, 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  2  even  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water.  Mix  molasses  and  butter  together,  and  beat  until  very  light. 
Stir  in  the  cream  or  milk,  and  salt ;  make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  pour  in 
the  mixture.  Stir  down  the  flour  gradually  until  it  is  a  smooth  bat- 
ter. Beat  in  the  soda  water  thoroughly.and  boil  at  once  in  a  buttered 
mould,  leaving  room  to  swell.  It  should  be  done  in  IJ^  hours.  Eat 
hot  with  a  good  sauce.  Raisins  or  currants  may  be  added.  Cherries 
or  gooseberries  dried  in  sugar  may  be  used  instead  of  raisins. 


PUDDINGS.  411 

Blueberry  Batter  Pudding. — Two  cupfuls  of  milk,  half  cupful 
»f  molasses,  2  eggs,  6  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  quart 
of  blueberries,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda  stirred  in  the  molasses. 
Wash  and  drain  the  blueberries  and  roll  them  in  part  of  the  flour. 
Stir  together  thoroughly  and  steam  3  hours.  Serve  with  a  hot  lemon 
or  vanilla  sauce,  or  a  butter  sauce. 

Graham  Batter  Pudding. — One  cupful  of  sweet  millr,  1  cupful 
of  sour  milk,  1  cupful  of  molasses  with  1  teaspoonfiil  of  soda  stirred 
in  it,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Thicken  with 
Graham  flour  and  add  2  cupfuls  of  well-washed  English  curraiits. 
Steam  3  hours  and  serve  with  hot  sour  sauce. 

Cottage  Pudding,  Baked. — One  egg,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  1  cupful 
of  inilk,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  half  cup  of  dried  currants  or 
chopped  raisins ;  stir  all  together,  and  bake  in  an  oblong  bread  pan. 
Cut  in  square  pieces,  artd  serve  with  a  hot  milk  sauce,  or  any  other 
preferred  one.  Half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  cream, 
of  tartar,  may  be  used  in  place  of  baking  powder. 

Cottage  Pudding,  Steamed. — Use  the  above  rule.     Pour  into  a 
quart  basin  and  steam  one  hour.     Serve  with  a  hot  sauce.     One  cup  , 
sour  milk,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  may  be  used  in  place  of  sweet 
milk  and  baking  powder.  i_ 

Bread  Pudding. — One  pint  of  milk,  1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  flavoring,  1  egg.  Warm  the 
milk.  Butter  the  dish  and  put  in  the  crumbs.  When  the  milk  has 
cooled  a  little,  add  the  sugar,  flaTOring,  and  well-beaten  egg.  Pour 
it  over  the  crumbs.  Let  it  soak  half  an  hour.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
30  minutes,  or  untjl  golden  brown. 

Fruit  Bread  Pudding. — Add  to  the  above  quantities  half  cup 
of  raisins  (stoned),  half  cup  of  currants,  and  a  Small  piece  of  citron, 
cut  in  narrow  strips.  Butter  the  dish,  make  a  pattern  on  the  bottom 
with  "the  fruit,  then  carefully  cover  it  with  half  the  crumbs.  Pour 
over  a  little  of  the  custard,  then  the  rest  of  the  crumbs,  and  all  the 
custard.    When  baked,  slip  a  knife  around  the  edge  and  turn  it  out. 

Meringue  Bread  Pudding.— Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  light; 
add  gradually  a  cap  of  granulated  sugar,  beating  all  the  while,  and 
the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Mix  apint  of  bread  crumbs  with  a  quart 
of  milk ;  pour  tlpiis  on  the  eggs  and  sugar.     Mix  well,  and  bake  in  a 


412  PUDDINGS. 

moderate  oven  until  stiff  When  done,  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Heap  on  the 
pudding,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  When  using  cake  crumbs, 
use  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  one-half  ci^p  of  granulated  sugar. 

Queen'5  Pudding. — One  pint  fine  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  of  milk, 
1  cupful  sugar,  4  egg  yolks,  well  beaten ;  grated  rind  of  1  lemon, 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Do  not  let  it  bake  until  watery.  Whip  the 
whites' of  the  eggs,  with  1  cup  sugar,  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  to  this  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer  of  jelly  or  sweet- 
meats, spread  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over  this,  put  in  the  oven  and 
brown.  Serve  cold.  Sweet  Cream,  flavored  with  lemon,  is  nice  to 
serve  with  it,  but  it  is  very  nice  withbuft  sauce. 

Aunt  Mary's  Puddlngp. — 'Half  fill  a  pudding  dish  with  slices  of 
baker's  bread,  well-buttered.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  custard  made  in 
the  proportion  of  1  egg  to  1  pint  of  milk,  Sweeten  and  flavor  it  to 
taste.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  before  baking,  with  a  weight  on  the 
bread  to  keep,  it  under  the  milk.  Bake.  'This  may  be  varied  by 
spreading  each  slice  of  bread  with  jam  or  jelly  liberalfy,  or  even 
by  scattering  raisins  between  them  before  pouring  the  custard  over. 
Cake  that  is  dry  may  be  used,  or  both  cake  and  bread.  Steam  or  boil. 

Quick  Cracker  Pudding. — Break  fine  half  a  dozen  coii^on 
crackers,  and  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  them  to  cover,  1  quart 
of  milk,  3  eggs,  three-quarters  ciip  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  5  minutes  in  a  farina 
kettle,  instead  of  baking.  One  egg  may  be  omitted  if  they  are  scarce, 
and  two  mpre  crackers  added. 

Grandmother's  Rice  Pudding. — One  cup  of  rice,  2  cupfuls  of 
milk,  2  cupfuls  of  water,  1  cupful  molasses,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
one-half  nutmeg  grated,  1  beaten  egg.  In  mixing  use  one-half  of  the 
milk  with  molasses,  etc.,  then  put  in  oven  to  bake.  After  it  has  been 
in  the  oven  one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stir  thoroughly, 
then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  only  stirring  slightly  at  the  top  so  as 
to  form  a  whey  like  Indian  pudding.  Bake  about  2  hours  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Best  to  mix  in  the  morning  and  let  stand  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  until  ready  to  bake  to  swell  the  rice ;  bakeJn  an  earthen 
pudding  dish. 

Danish  Tapioca  Pudding. — Put  into  1}4  pints  of  cold  water  half 
a  taeeupful  of  pearl  tapioca  and  let  it  soak  for  half  an  hour,  aft«f 


PUDDINGS.  41S 

which  boil  it  until  clear  and  soft,  which  will  take  about  an  hour,  stir- 
ring frequently  .while  boiling ;  add  a  quarter  of  a  teacupful  of  sugar, 
hdf  a  tumbler  of  currant  jelly  and  a  little  salt,  steadily  stirring  until 
all  the  jelly  is  dissolved.  Put  into  a  mould  and  serve  cold  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

Chocolate  Cornstarch  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  4  heaping 
tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  a  little  salt,  bake  in  double  boiler  till  very 
thick ;  cool  so  as  to  cut  nice.  Sauce. — Dissolve  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  chocolate  in  1)4  cups  of  boiling  milk;  beat  1  egg,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  stir  on  the  stove  until  it  thickens  about  like  cream ;  use 
vanilla  flavoring.  Let  the  puddingy  cool  in  small  moulds,  teacups, 
turn  out  in  saucers  and  pour  the  sauce  around  them. 

Lemon  Cornstarch  Pudding. — One  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  1 
teacup  of  boiling  water,  1  egg,  sugar  to  taste,  1  teaspoon  of  butter, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  small  lemon ;  mix  the  cornstarch  with  a 
little  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water  and  let  it  jjoil  10  minutes ;  put 
in  the  sugar  and  pour  the  mixture  on  the  yolk  of  the  egg  well 
beaten ;  add  the  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind.  Stir  again  while  on 
the  fire,  not  allowing  it  to  burn.  As  soon  as  it  becomes  thick,  re- 
move it  and  pour  into  forms  or  moulds.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Boiled  Lemon  Pudding. — Two  cupfuls  dried  bread  crumbs,  1 
cupful  powdered  beef  suet;  4  tablespoonfuls  flour,  4  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  rupful  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lempnf  1  large  cupful  rtiilk. 
Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk,  add  the  suet,  beat  eggs  and  sugar 
together,  and  these  well  into  the  soaked  bread,  Td  these  put  the 
lemon,  lastly  the  flour,  beaten  in  with  as  few  strokes  as  will  suffice  to 
mix  up  all  into  a  thick  batter.  Boil  3  hours  in  a  buttered  mould. 
Eat  hot  with  hot  sauce,^ny  preferred  kind. 

Brown  Betty. — I.  Butter  a  dish  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of 
bread  crumbs  and  sliced  apples..  Put  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon  on 
each  layer  of  apples.  Cover  closely,  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
uncover  and  brown  quickly.     Eat  with  hot  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

Brown  Betty. — II.  Take  5  large  and  tart  apples;  pare  and  slice 
them.  Put  a  layer  of  apples  in  a  deep  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
fine  bread  crumbs  and  so  on  until  the  apples  are  used.  Put  one-half 
cup  of  brown  sugar  and  small  bits  of  butter  over  the  top.  Grate  a 
little  nutniieg  over  them,  turn  on  a  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  1  hour 
until  nicely  browned. 


414  PUDDINGS. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — Add  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water  to  2 
ounces  of  chocolate.  Let  it  melt  over  the  fire ;  then  add  a  quart  of 
creamy  milk.  Half  cream  is  none  too  rich.  Sweeten  to  taste ;  add  a 
little  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Last  stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs.  Bake  until  set;  then  cover  with  a  meringue 
made  from  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  light,  sweetened  with 
powdered  sugar  and  delicately  flavored  with  vanilla.  Let  the  me- 
ringue brown  in  a  very  quick  oven.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Cabinet  Pudding. — Beat  4  eggs  and  mix  with  3  teacups  of  milk 
and  one-half  a  cup  of  sug^r;  grease  a  pudding  pan;  sprinkle  the 
bottom  with  stoned  raisins  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  stale  sponge 
cake;  pour  the  custard  over  this  and,  steam  1  hour;  turn  out  and 
serve  hot  with  cream  sauce. ,  . 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — One  pound  of  sweet  potatoes  boiled 
and  mashed,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses  or  sugar,  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  1  pint 
sweet  milk.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  mix  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients, adding  the  milk  last.  Beat  until  light.  Bake  one-half  hour. 
It  can  be  baked  in  a  pie  criist  if  liked.  Serve  hot  with /lemon  sauce, 
or  cold  without  sauce. 

~Pive  Minute  Pudding. — Two  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Break  eggs 
on  sugar  and  beat  to  a  cream ;  sift  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder, 
which  should  be  previously  mixed  together;  pour  into  a  greased  tin 
and  bake  6  minutes  ;  roll  up  with  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  jam. 

Green  Com  Pudding. — One  pint  finely  cut  green  corn,  or  1  can 
of  corn,  1  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs  welt  beaten,.!  tablespoonful  butter,  1 
small  half-cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Melt  the  butter ;  mix  the 
ingredients.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  the  kernels  '' 
of  green  corn  are  split  before  cutting  from  the  ear,  it  will  be  fine 
enough.     No  sauce. 

Rhubarb  Pudding. — Chop  rhubarb  very  fine ;  put  in  a  pudding 
dish,  sprinkle  thoroughly  with  sugar.  Make  a  batter  of  1  cup  of 
sour  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted,  and  half  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk ;  add  flour  to  make  the  thick- 
ness of  cake  batter,  and  pour  over  the  rhubarb.  Bake,  and  turn  out 
a  plate  so  that  the  rhubarb  will  be 'on  top.  Serve  with  cream  and 
sugar.    The  battel^  may  be  made  of  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder. 


BLANC  MANGE 


In  making  custards  or  custard  pud- 
dings, the  eggs  and  the  sugar  should  be 
thoroughly  beaten  together  before  any 
milk  or  seasoning  is  added.  A  custard 
should  never  quite  reach  the  boiling  point,  as  it  is  liable 
to  curdle.  Some  cooks  add  a  little  cornstarch  to  the  cus- 
tard to  prevent  curdling  or  wheying.  It  also  saves  in 
eggs,  but  others  do  not  like  the  taste.  A  double  boiler  is  very  much 
better  to  use  for  custards.  A  boiler  custard  need  not  be  cpok^  until 
very  thick,  as  it  thickens  while  cooling.  It  is  well  to  allow  boiled 
custard  to  cool  before  flavoring.  Less  extract  will  be  needed,  and  the 
flavor  will  be  more  delicate.  When  beaten  eggs  are  to  be  mixed  with 
hot  milk,  as  in  making  gravies  or  custards,  dip  the  hot  milk  into  the 
beaten  eggs  a  spoonful  at  ^  time,  stirring  well  each  time,  until  the 
eggs  are  well  thinned,  then  add  both  together :  this  will  prevent  the 
eggs  from  curdling.  For  all  manner  of  home-made  flavoring,  see  the 
hints  at  beginning  of  Cakes.  '  There  are  so  many  dainty  flavorings 
that  the  coarser  spices  are  left  for  the  heavier  richer  puddings.  The 
juices  of  various  fruits,  coffee,  tea,  and  caramel,  may  be  added  to 
the  list  of  flavors. 

Coffee  Flavoring. — ^To  flavor  1  quart  of  custard,  take  2  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  Mocha  coffee,  ground  quite  fine  and  measured  after 
grinding.  If  possible,  the  coffee  should  .have  been  browned  and 
ground  the  day  it  is  iised.  ,  Pour  the  quart  of  milk  boiling  hot  ovei 
the  coffee,  beat  the  whole  thoroiighly  for  two  or  three  minutes  ovei 
the  fire.  Remove  from  stove,  cover  and  let  it  stand  where  it  will 
cool;  then  strain.  This  gives  a  Very  delicate  and  delicious  flavor. 
If  it  is  to  be  used  for  ice-cream,  a  mixture  of  half  cream  and  half 
milk  can  be  poured  over  the  coffee. 

'Caramel  Flavoring. — A  caramel  flavor  is  very  easily  made,  and 
is  excellent  for  custards,  ice-creams  and  pudding  sauces.  Take  2 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  and  1  of  water.  Stir 
theni  overthe  fire  in  a  saucepan  until  they  begin  to  turn  brown,  and 

4it» 


416  CUSTARDS  AND   BLANC   MANGE. 

when  the  mixture  is  thoroughly  melted,  and  has  become  a  rich  golden 
brown,  which  will  be  in  2  or  3  minutes,  add  the  milk  of  the  custard 
or  ice-cream,  which  it  is  desired  to  flavor,  and  stir  the  whole  over  the 
fire  till  the  caramel  has  melted  evenly  into  the  milk.  In  the  case  of 
a  sauce,  add  a  syrup  inade  with  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water, 
and  well  flavored  with  a  little  cinnamon  and  a  lemon  peel,  and  stir 
until  the  whole  is  well  mixed. 

Boiled  Custard. — ^^One  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  3_  tablespoonfuls 
sugar.  Pinch  of  salt  and  fl£.vor  to  suit.  Scald  the  milk,  put  in  the 
eggs  and  sugar ;  do  not  boil,  but  stir  until  it  thickens ;  when  co^l 
.enough  pour  into  glasses.  If  wished  richer,  6  eggs  may  be  used  to 
1  quart,  of  milk. 

Baked  Custard.— One  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  3  tablespobnfuls  of 
sugar.  Pinch  of  salt  and  flavoring  to  suit.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar 
together,  add  the  milk.  Pour  in  a  pudding  dish.  Do  not  bake  too 
long  or  the  custard  will  whey.  _  Test  it  by  sinking  a  spoon  in  it ;  as 
soon  as  it  comes  out  free  from  any  of  the  custard  it  is  done.  Another 
egg  added  will  make  it  richer.  It  can  also  be  baked  in  a  pudding 
dish  lined  with  a  rich  paste,  if  desired. 

French  Custard. — Boil  1  quart  of  milk.  Beat  half  cupful  sugar 
and  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  together  and  stir  in  the  milk.  Stir  orl  the 
fire  until  thick  (a  double  boiler  is  best,  but  a  pail  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  can  be  used).  Flavor  with  vanilla,  coffee  or  almond.  When 
cold  pour  in  a  glass  bowl.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff)  heap  on 
a  large  dish  and  set  in  the  stove  to  brown,  then  slip  on  the  custard. 
Set  on  ice  and  serve  with  sponge  cake. 

French  Tapioca  Custard. — Five  dessertspoonfuls  of  tapioca,  i 
quart  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  heaping  cup  of  sugar, 
a  little  salt.  Soak  the  tapioca  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  5  hours:  Let 
the  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  tapioca.  Stir  until  boiling  ho^ 
then  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Boil  again. 
Let  it  cook  until  thick,  but  not  too  long.  Pour  into  a  dish  and  stir 
gently  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff"  froth. 

Cream  Custard. — To  1  quart  of  cream  add  6  eggs,  slightly  beaten. 
/Strain  the  cream  and  eggs  into  a  double  boiler,  add  6  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  hoil  10  minutes.     When  nearly  cold  add  flavoring. 

Caramel  i  nstard. — Brown  half  a  cup  of  granfllated  sugar  (be 
careful  it  doe    not  burn),  add  2  tablespoons  of  water,  warm  1  quart 


CUSTARDS  AND  BLANC  MANGE,  417 

of  milk,  put  browned  sugar  into  it,  add  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1 
teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract,  beat  6  eggs  well  and  add  last  Strain 
into  greased  bowls ;  set  bowls  in  baking  pan  with  water  in  it  and 
bake  about  20  minutes  or  until  you  can  put  a  knife  in  it  and  draw  it 
out  without  any  of  the  custard  adhering  to  it.     Set  in  a  cold  place. 

Orange  Custard. — Four  well-beaten  eggs,  2  oranges,  juice  of, 
and  grated  rind  of  1,  1^^  pints  of  rich  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar.  Beat 
all  thoroughly  together,  adding  the  milk  last.  Stir  gently  over  ^he 
fire  until  it  thickens.     Serve  cold  in  custard  cups. 

Banana  Custard. — ^Two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  blended  in  a 
little  cold  water,  1  cupful  of  white  sugar,  one-third  cupful  butter. 
Stir  together  and  pour  on  gradually  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  light,  and  keep  ovei-  the 
fire  until  thick ;  when  cold  add  4  or  5  bananas,  sliced  fine,  put  in 
cups  ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  3  eggs  with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar;  add 
to  each  cup,  and  brown.  Flavor  with  either  orange  or  lemon."  This 
mixture  can  be  made  the  same  as  lemon  pie  and  meringue'  on  the  top. 

Blanc  Mange. 

The  rules  for  cooking  custards  are  applicable  to  Blanc  Mange. 

Blanc  Mange. — I.  Dissolve  1  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  enough 
warm  water  to  cover  it.  Stir  it  into  1  quart  of  rich  milk,  or  cream 
and  milk  mixed.  Sweeten  with  half  cupful  of  sugar.  Stir  constantly 
over  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point.  Flavpr  with  lemon, 
vanilla  or  almond.  Stir  until  almost  cold.  Pour  in  a  mould  and  put 
in  a  cool  place  or  on  the  ic6  ;  it  is  pretty  cooled  in  cups.  Dip  the 
moulds  in  hot  water  before  pouring  in  the  blanc  mange.  Very  nice 
served  with  sweetened  cream,  whipped  cream  or  soft  boiled  custard. 

Blanc  Mange. — 11.  Make  as  above  and  when  nearly  cold  beat  in 
the  whipped  whites  of  3  eggs,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  a 
custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  the  3  eggs-and  1  pint  of  milk,  sweeten 
and  flavor  with  the  same  flavoring  used  in  the  blanc  mange. 

Cornstarch  Blanc  Mange. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  heat  part 
of  it  on  the  stove,  and  with  the  cold  blend  4  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Stir  into  the  boiling  milk  smoothly, 
keeping  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens.  Flavor  to  suit.  Take  frotti 
the  stove  and  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Serve  with 
A  custard  made  of  the  3  egg  yolks  and  1  pint  of  milk.  If  eg£^  ire 
COOK— 27 


418  CUSTARDS  AND  BLANC  MANGE. 

scarce,  use  one  more  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and  stir  into  the 
blanc  mange  1  whole  egg  stiffly  beaten.  Serve  with  sweetened 
cream. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange.^-Cover  an  ounce  of  gelatine  with  water. 
Boil  1  quart  of  milk,  4  ounces  of  chocolate,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  5  min- 
utes. Add  the  gelatine  and  boil  5  minutes  longer,  stirring  constantly. 
Flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  into  moulds  to  cool.  This  dessert  may 
be  served  with  sweetened  cream  or  a  rich  custard  sauce. 

GbocolateBl&nc  Mange. — Four  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  1  quart 
milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  chocolate,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla ;  boil  the  milk, 
wet  with  cold  milk  the  Cornstarch,  etc.,  and  stir  into  the  boiling\milk. 
Cook  5  minutes  and  flavor  with  the  vanilla.  Serve  with  sweetened 
cream.  " 

Banana  plane  Mange. — Make  a  white  custard  as  follows :  Two 
tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  wetted  with  enough  cold  water  to  dissolve 
it;  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-third  cup  butter;  stir  together  in  a 
pudding  mould  or  earthen  dish  and  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to 
make  thick  custard ;  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  snow,  sfir  into  the 
custard  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  15  minutes  or  foi  the  same 
length  of  time  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  set  aside  utitil  perfectly 
cold ;  then  remove  the  slight  crust  that  will  have  formed  ori  the  top ; 
have  ready  dish  in  which  you  are  to  serve  your  custard  and  some 
fresh,  ripe  bananas  minced  finely;  mix  with  the  custard  and  pour  into 
the  dish  and  add  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and 
one-half  teacupful  pulverized  pink  sugar.  Peaches  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  bananas. 

Khubarb  Blanc  Mange. — ^Two  pounds  rhubarb,  cut  up,  3  pints- 
water;  cook  15  minutes;  strain  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar  or  more  if 
desired.  Add  a  little  over  one-half  cup  of  sago  and  cook  20  min- 
utes.    Put  into  moulds  and  set  on  ice. 

Almond  Blanc  Mange. — Blanch  one-half  pound  of  alriionds  and 
rub  to  a  paste  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rose  water  and  white  sugar, 
about  1  tablespoonful  to  4  or  5  almonds.  Mix  this  paste  with  1  pint 
of  milk ;  add  1  ounce  of  gelatine  soaked  in  enough  warm  milk  to 
cover  it.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  add  an- 
other pint  of  milk ;  let  it  boil  4jp,  strain,  stir  until  partly  cool,  then 
pour  in  cups  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  form.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  sweetened  cream. 


L/.«5^ 


'Siii 


ARI2TTES 


A  JELLY  or  a  Bavarian  cream  or 
any  dish  stiffened  by  gelatine,  must  not 
be  moved  while  it  is  cooling.  Mov- 
ing does  no  harm  when  it  is  in  a  liquid  state, 
but  if  it  is  moved  when  it  is  half  congealed  a 
crack  will  result  when  it  is  finally  turned  out  of  the  dish. 
The  same  result  will  follow  if  it  is  jarred  when  removing 
from  the  moilldj  and  jarring  and  shaking  is  often  resorted  to  in  order 
to  hasten  its  removal. 

The  glutinous  nature  of  gelatine  causes  it  to  stick  to  the  mould, 
and  it  requires  a  little  heat  to  melt  it  slightly  before  it  will  come  out 
of  the  mould  in  the  clear-cut  form  which  it  should  have.  The  steam 
of  the  tea-kettle,  so  often  resorted  to,  gives  too  much  heat,  and  causes 
the  form  to  be  blurred  in  outline  when  it  is  turned  out.  The  best 
method  is  to  dip  the  mould  into  water  as  hot  as  the  hand  will  bear 
comfortably  for  about  half  a  minute,  if  it  is  a  tin  mould ;  if  earthen, 
for  2  or  3  minutes.  While  it  is  immersed  in  the  water  press  the  jelly 
around  the  edge  of  the  mould  to  loosen  it  at  the  sides.  Invert  over 
it  the  platter  or  dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  turned  out  and  turn  the  two 
over  together.  If  it  fails  to  come  out,  wrap  a  hot  cloth  around  it  for 
a  moment.  It  sometimes  requires  a  little  time  to  accomplish  this 
perfectly,  but  the  clear-cut  outlines  of  the  jelly  or  cream  will  repay 
the  trouble. 

Whipped  Cream. — This  is  very  often  served  in  connection  with 
something  else,  but  makes  a  delicious  dessert  by  itself,  or  with  fancy 
cakes.  The  first  requisite  is  to  have,  the  cream  icy-cold,  and  an  hour 
or  so  before  using  put  the  large  earthen  bowl  in  which  it  is  to  be 
whipped,  and  the  egg-beater  (Dover  egg-beater  is  good),  where  they 
will  get  perfectly  cold.  The  bowl  should  have  a  round  bottom. 
Cream  will  whip  to  3  times  its  original  bulk,  if  it  is  the  right  quality 
with  which  to  start.  Very  thin  cream  will  not  whip  at  all.  A  very 
thick  cream  will  not  increase  as  much  in  bulk,  besides  there  is  danger 
of  butter  coming.  If  it  is  very  thick,  dilute  it  with  nearly  the  same 
amount  of  fresh  sweet  milk.    Medium  cream  is  the  best.    It  is  well 

419 


420  CREAMS  AND   CHARLOTTES. 

to  set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  while  beating.  Whip  it  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Do  not  skim  off  the  froth  asfast  as  it  forms,  as  it  will  be 
liable  to  fall,  but  whip  until  all  is  Stiff.  About  5  minutes  is  usually 
sufficient.  Beat  in  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  an  even  cupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar  to  a  pint  of  the  unwhipped  cream.  The  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  is  a  delicious  iiavoring.  In  this  f6rm  it  is  also  delicious  for 
Charlotte-russe.  If  wished  firmer,  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  can  be 
whipped  in.  In  this  way  it  is  not  apt  to  fall.  It  should  not  be  pre- 
pared until  about  an  hour  before  dinner.  Set  on  ice.  Serve  in  fancy 
glasses  a,nd  pass  around  assorted  cakes. 

liemon  Cream. — Dissolve  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  in  a  little 
\^ater;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  1  cup  of  sugar; 
on  this  pour  2)^  cups  of  hot  water;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  egg? 
and  1  whole  egg;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens  like  custard, 
stirring  constantly;  when  cool  frost  with  2  whites  and  brown  in  oven. 
To  be  eaten  with  spongecake, 

IJemon  Sponge. — ^Dissolve  1  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  warm 
v/ater,  strain  and  add  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  and  1  orange;  one  cup  of 
sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  it 
jllist  boils  and  turn  into  a  mould.  Can  be  made  by  using  both  yolks' 
and  whites  of  2  eggs,  but  is  paler  in  color. 

Orange  Creani. — One  orange, juice  and  grated  rind;  1  pint  of 
thin  sweet  cream ;  1  cupful  of  white  sugar ;  4  yolks  of  eggs.  Stir ; 
heat  the  cream  to  boiling  and  pour  in ;  stjr  until  perfectly  cold ;  whip 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  spread  oyer  the  top.  Beat 
into  this  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  It  is  pretty  served  in  small  glasses 
with  the  frosting  over  each  one. 

Cocoanut  Cream. — Whip  1  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have 
ready  three-quarters  of  a  box  of  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in 
1  cup  of  milk  for  half  an  hour,  and  the  milk  heated  until  the  gelatine 
is  dissolved.  Strain,  and  when  cool  add  it  to  the  cream  with  1  cup 
of  sugar  and  2  cups  of  cocoanut.  Either  the  desiiccated  cocoanut  or 
the  fresh  nut  grated  can  be  used.  Put  the  cream  into  a  mould  and 
set  it  on  ice  or  in  a  very  cold  place. 

Coifee  Cream. — Soak  half  a  bo^  of  gelatine  for  2  hours  in  a  cup. 
ful  of  cold  water.  Put  half  a  cupful  of  the  best  coffee,  finely  ground^ 
in  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  stand  5  minutes.  Then  straia 
the  milk  through  a  thick  cloth  upon  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  add  to  it 


CREAMS  AND  CHARLOTTES.  421 

the  welUbeaten  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Stir  the  whole  over  the  fire  until  it 
is  creamy,  but  not  thick ;  remove  from  the  heat  and  add  the  gelatine ; 
stir  the  latter  well  to  be  sure  that  all  is  dissolved,  and  pour  the  cream 
through  a  soup  strainer  if  it  seems  at  all  lumpy.  Set  away  in  a  cool 
place,  and  when  it  is  cold  and  begins  to  stiffen,  stir  briskly  into  it  a 
pint  of  whipped  cream  and  turn  into  a  wet  mould.  This  dessert  re- 
quires no  sauce,  and  is  delicious  to  those  who  like  coffee ;  moreover 
it  is  quite  inexpensive,  a  tea-cupfiil  of  cream  being  sufficient  to  make 
a  pint  of  whip. 

Chocolate  Cream. — I.  Dissolve  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  pf  gelatine 
in  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  add  1  cupful  of  white  sugar,  strain  through 
a  sieve.  Whip  1  pint  of  sweet  cream.  Set- on  ice  while  you  melt  3 
ounces  of  chocolate.  Add  chocolate  to  the  gelatine,  when  it  begins 
to  stiffen  a  little  add  the  whipped  cream.  Pour  all  into  a  mould,  and 
set  on  ice  until  firm.     Serve  with  or  without  a  rich  custard. 

Chocolate  Cream. — II.  Take  a  pint  of  milk  and  3  ounces  of 
chocolate.  Boil  this  with  6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  until  thoroughly 
mixed,  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  4  eggs  beaten  light.  Pour 
into  a  cold  bowl  to  cool,  and  when  cold,  add  a  pint  of  cream  beaten 
stiff,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  ' 

Blackberry  Cream. — To  1  pint  of  blackberries  add  1  pint  of 
water.  Boil  until  tendet,  and  then  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  4  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cornstarch,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Flavor  to 
taste.  To  be  eaten  WiLh  cream  and  sugar-  Raspberries  can  be  made 
in  the  same  manner. 

Strawberry  Chocolate  Cream. — Soak  one-third  of  a  box  of  Cox's 
gelatine  in  one-third  cup  of  cold  water,  pour  on  a  third  of  a  cup  pf 
boiling  water,  add  1  cup  of  sugar, and  1  pint  of  perfectly  ripe  straw- 
berries. Set  in  pan  of  ice-water  to  cool  j  when  cool  and  before  it 
hardens  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Line  a  pretty  dish  with 
lady  fingers,  and  when  gelatine  is  hard  turn  into  dish  and  serve  .with 
whipped  cream. 

Vanilla  Snow  i:ggs. — Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  6  eggs.  Have  on 
the  fire  a  pint  of  milk  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  M^hea  it 
boils^drop  the  beaten  eggs  into  it  by  tablespoonfuls,  and  as  soon  as 
they  become  formed  dip  them  out.  Allow  milk  in  saucepan  to  cool 
a  little,  then  stir  in  yolks  of  the  eggs  slowly.  When  thick  pour 
around  the  snowed  eggs  and  serve  cold. 


422  CREAMS  AND  CHARLOTTES. 

Cream  Charlotte  Busse. — ^This  requires  a  lining  of  cake  arranged 
in  a  bowl,  a  mould,  or  in  anjr  sort  of  dish  preferred.  Sponge  cake, 
baked  thin  and  divided  when  cold  into  two  layers  of  equal  thickness  by 
a  long,  sharp  knife,  is  considfred  most  attractive,  but  pieces  of  any 
plain  cake  cut  half  an  inch  thick,  or  divided  lady  fingers,  may  be 
used  to  line  the  dish  or  mould.  Charlptitps  are  made  with  or  without 
tops,  according  to  taste  or  convenience;  and  when  the  supply  of  cake 
is  limited,  stiff  paper  may  be  buttered  and  laid  in  the  bottom  of  the 
mould,  cake  being  placed  at  the  sides.  Whatever  cake  is  cut  off  in 
trimming  the  forms  to  shape,  may  be  crumbled  and  sprinkled  over  the 
bottom.  Fill  the  forms  with  whipped  cream  seasoned  with  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fine  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  some  favorite^  extract. 
To  make  sure  that  the  whipped  cream  will  be  stiff,  stir  into  it  lightly, 
but  thoroughly,  with  a  spoon,  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  to 
each  pint  of  the  cream.  Arrange  the  tops  of  the  forms  neatly,  or 
cover  them  with  a  layer  of  cake  and  set  them  on  ice. 

Charlotte  Busse. — One  pint  of  whipped  cream,  the  whites  of  2 
eggs,  beaten.  Dissolved  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  cojd 
water,  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  and  flavor  with" 
vanilla.  Take  a  sponge  cake  and  cut  off  all  the  crust,  and  divide  the 
cake  in  twd-inch  pieces.  Lay  them  in  a  large  glass  dish  and  turn  the 
Charlotte  russe  over  them.  Make  this  at  night,  to  be  served  the  next 
day.  Stir  it  all  together  well  before  turning  it  on  the  cake.  Cool  on 
ice,  if  possible.  If  in  a  mould,  it  can  be  turned  out  in  shape;  or  it 
can  be  moulded  in  a  handsome  glass  dish  and  served  in  the  same. 
Cocoanut  grated  over  the  top  is  an  improvement. 

Hard  Times  Charlotte  Busse.— One  and  one-half  pints  sweet 
milk.  Set  on  fire  to  boil.  Mix  together  in  a  dish  the  following  arti- 
cles :  One-half  large  cupful  sugar,  1  beaten  egg,  1  heaped  tablespoon- 
fill  cornstarch,  one-half  small  cupful  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  grated 
chocolate,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Blend  smoothly.  Pour  gradually  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Let  simmer  a  few  ihoments,  stirring  all  the  time.  In 
the  meantime  partly  fill  a  large  fruit  dish  with  any  kind  or  kinds  of 
stale  cake  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  square.  When  the  cream  is 
nearly  cold  pour  over  the  cake.  Do  this  a  few  minutes  before  setting 
on  the  table,  so  that  it  will  be  cold  when  served.  Dish  out  in  saucers. 
If  eggs  are  scarce,  omit,  and  use  an  extra  heaped  tablespoonful  of. 
cornstarch.    Flavor  the  cream  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 


CREAMS  AND  CHARLOTTES.  423 

Orange  Charlotte  Busse. — One  pint  sweet  cream,  half  box  gel- 
atine, 1  cupful  pulverized  sugar,  half  cupful  orange  juice,  or  the  juice 
«f  3  large  oranges.  Soak  the  gelatine  one  hour  in  water  enough  to 
cover,  then  add  a  little  boiling  water  to  dissolve  it.  Whip  the  cream. 
Stir  in  the  dissolved  gelatine  lightly,  but  thoroughly,  then  the  sugar 
and  the  orange  juice,  a  little  at  a  time.  Line  a  mould  with  slices  of 
sponge  cake  and  pour  in  the  cream.  Set  in  a  cold  place  to  congeal. 
This  and  many  others  of  these  fancy  dishes  are  better  for  being  made 
the  day  before,  as  by  standing  they  grow  firm.  On  this  account  they 
are  desirable  for  Sunday  desserts,  or  for  elaborate  dinners  where  there 
are  many  dishes  that  must  be  prepared- the  same  day. 

liemon  Charlotte  Busse. — Prepare  precisely  as  above,  substi- 
tuting the  juice  of  2  large  or  3  small  lemons  in  place  of  the  orange 
juice,  and  adding  one-half  cupful  more  of  sugar. 

Banana  Charlotte  Busse. — Line  the  sides  of  a  mould  with  sliced 
sponge  cake  and  the  bottom  with  sliced  bananas ;  sprinkle  over  them 
a  little  orange  juice, and  dust  with  powdered  sugar;  whip  a  pint  of 
cream  stiffly  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  flavor  slightly  with 
a  few  drops  of  the  orange  juice.  Set  on  ice  until  Served.  The 
filling  may  be  of  some  of  the  creams  given  before,  in  which  case  it 
can  be  turned  out  of  the  mould  in  nice  shape.  With  the  whipped 
cream  it  is  apt  to  break.  Thdieaten  white  of  an  egg  will  help  make 
the  whipped  cream  firmer. 

Snow  Charlotte  Busse. — Lay  a  few  slices  of  stale  cake  that .  has 
been  pipped  quickly  in  milk  on  a  dish  in  which  it  can  be  served. 
Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  4  eggs ;  add  a  quarter  pound  of  bleached  and 
finely  chopped  almonds  and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar;  Pour 
over  the  cake  slices  and  bake  10  minutes,  but  do  not  brown. 

Burnt  Almond  Charlotte  Busse. — One  cupful  of  sweet  almonds, 
blanched  and  chopped  fine,  half  a  box  of  gelatine  soaked  2  hours  in 
half  a  cupful  of  water,  3  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  1  ^  cupfuls  of 
milk,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate,  1  quart  of 
sweet  cream.    Put  the  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  in  a  sauce. 


LITTLE  oatmeal,  Graham  mush  or  other  cereal 
may  be  converted  into  a  dessert  by  adding^^ugar, 
milk  and  eggs  in  the  desired  amount,  using  1 
egg  to  a  cup  of  milk  and  any  flavoring  desired, 
and  baking  until  the  custard  sets.  It  may  then, 
be  served  with  cream  or  with  pudding  sauce. 

Cordials  are  excellent  for  flavoring  jellies  and 
creams.  They  give  a  particularly  pleasant  and 
delicate  flavor.  Maraschino,  which  has'  the  flavor  Df  bitter  cherry, 
is  n\uch  used.  Curacao,  which  tastes  of  orange  peel,  and  Noyau, 
which  has  the  flavor  of  peach  kernels,  are  good  flavoring  cordials. 

'  Rice  Meringue. — Boil  half  a  teacupful  of  rice  half  an  hour  in 
water;  drain  wafer  off,  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  togethfer 
until  light,  mix  with  the  ricej  add  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  juice;  mix  well  together;  set  custard  cups  in  a 
dripping-pan,  fill  them  two-thirds  full  with  the  mixture,  pour  hot  water 
in  the  dripping-pan  and  cook  15  minutes"  in  a  hot  oven.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  a  few  minutes,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  and  beat  again  until  stiff;  fill  each  cup  with  the  meringue,  set 
in  the  oven  and  brown  lightly.  -  Serve  cold  in  the  cups. ' 

Tipsy  Pudding. — Haifa  dozen  little  sponge  cakes,  1  dozen  mac- 
aroons. Make  a  thick  custard  with  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  Teaspoonfuls 
of  cornstarch  and  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  milk,  sugar  to  taste.  Boil 
the  milk,  mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  of  it  (milk)  cold,  stir  into 
the  hot  milk  ;  when  a  little  cool,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar, 
flavor  to  taste,  and' set  to  cool.  Lay  the  sponge  cakes  in  a  glass  disk, 
moisten  with  a  wine  glass  of  wine,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Spread  a  layer 
of  raspberry  jam  over  this,  then  the  macaroons,  and  pour  the  cold 
custard  over.  Heap  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten  and  a  little 
sweetened  over  all.     Place  near  ice  to  cool. 

Lemon  Fluff. — Sweeten  1  pint  of  milk  and  flavor  with  vanilla ; 

beat  the  whites  of  7  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  heat  the  milk,  and  when  it 

boils  take  a  tablespoon  of  the  beaten  whites  and  put  it  carefully  on 

the  milk ;  turn  it  over  once,  take  out  with  a  spoon  or  skimmer,  and 

424 


DESSERTS. 


4'2^ 


put  it  on  a  sieve  to  drain ;  continue  this  till  all  the  egg  is  used  up. 
Now  strain  the  milk  and  make  it  into  a  rich  custard,  using  the  yolks 
of  the  7  eggs.    When  cold  put  pieces  of  egg  whites  on  top  and  serve. 

Chocolate  Custard. — One  quart  of  milk,  put  over  tJie  fire  in  a 
double  boiler.  When  it  reaches  boiling  point,  add  1  cupful  sugar,  4 
tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate.  Boil  gently  5  minutes ;  add  beaten 
yolks  of  6  eggs,  gradually  stirring  all  the  time.  Do  not  let  boil.  As 
soon  as  thickened,  remove  from  fire.  When  nearly  cold  flavor  with 
vanilla  to  taste.  Beat  briskly  1  minute ;  pour  into  custard  cups ;  whip 
the  whites  to  a  froth  with  powdered  sugar  and  heap  some  upon  each  cup. 

Almond  Blanc  Mange. — Boil  together  1  quart  of  milk,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  cornstarch  and  sugar.  When  thick  stir  into  it  30 
blanched  and  split  almonds  and  mould.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Lemon  Bice. — Take  1  cupful  of  rice,  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove  till  thoroughly  done ;  shake, 
do  not  stir,  taking  care  to  keep  the  grains  nice 
and  whole.  Add  the  rind  of  1  lemon  and  juice 
of  2;  two  scant  cups  of  sugar..  Set  in  the  oven 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  (which  only  takes 
a  minute),  then  put  in  a  wet  mould  to  cpol. 
Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

Bice  with  Fig  Sauce. — Soak  a  cup  of  rice 
in  1 5^  cups  of  water  for  an-  hour ;  then  add  a 
cup  of  milk,  turn  into  an  earthen  dish  and  place 
in  a  steam  cooker  and  steam  for  an  hour.  Stir 
occasionally  with  a  fork  the  first  16  minutes. 

Fi£  Saiice. — Carefully  look  over,  wash  and  cut  fine  enough  good 
figs,fo  make  a  cupful.  Stew  in  a  pint  of  water,  to  which  has  been 
added  a  tableSpoonful  of  sugar,  until  they  are  1  homogeneous  mass. 
Put  a  spoonful  of  the  hot  fig  sauce  on  each  dish  of  rice  when  serving. 

Nut  Cream. — Put  1  pint  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire. 
Moisten  2  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  in  a  little  cold  milk ;  add  to  hot 
milk ;  cook  until  thick ;  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  rosewater,  and  pour  it  into  the  centre  of  6  breakfast  plates. 
Cover  the  top  with  chopped  almonds,  and  put  1  drop  of  orange  blos- 
som water  on  each.     When  cold,  serve. 

Coffee  Cup  Cfustard. — Mix  well  8  egg  yolks  with  8  ounces  of 
sugar ;  dilute  with  6  custard  cups  of  boiling  milk  and  a  good  cupful 


426  DESSERTS. 

of  black  cofifee;  pass  through  a  fine  strainer,  fill  the  cups  and  put 
them  in  a  low  pan  with  boiling  water  to  half  their  height;  take  oft" 
the  froth  that  may  rise  to  the  surface,  cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer 
gently  for  20  minutes.  When  the  custard  is  well  set,  let  cool  in  the 
water,  drain,  wipe  the  cups  and  serve  cold. 

Coffee  Jelly,  with  Sauce.— ^Two  cupfuls  clear,  strong  coffee ;  1 
cupful  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one-half  cupful  cold  water, 
one-half  box  of  gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  an 
hour ;  stir  in  sugar,  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water  and  hot  coffee. 
Strain,  and  pour  in  a  mould.  When  cold  turn  into  a  glass  dish,  and 
serve  with  a  foaming  sauce  made  as  follows : 

Foaming  ,S««c^.— One-half  cupful  boiling  milk ;  add  2  tablespobtf- 
fuls  sugar  mixed  with  yolk  of  1  egg.  Stir  until  it  thickens  some ; 
remove  from  fire  and  add  the  well-beaten  white,  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
Sugar  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  ;     ^, 

Meringues. — -Whisk  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  high  froth,  t^ip  stir 
into  it  one-half  pound  finely  powdered  sugar;  flavor  with  royal  ex- 
tract vanilla  or  lemon,  repeat  whisking  until  it 
will  lie  in  a  heap,  then  lay  mixture  on  letter  paper, 
in  the  shape  of  half  an  egg,  moulding  it  with  a 
spoon,  laying  each  about  half  an  inch  apart.  Then 
place  paper, containing  meringues  on  piepe  of 
hard  wood,  put  them  into  quick  oven,  do  not 
.close  it,  watch  them;  when  they  begin  to  have 
yellow  appearance,  take  out.  Remove  paper 
carefully  from  wood,  let  them  cool  for  2  or  3 
minutes,  then  slip  thin  kniie  very  carefully  under 
one,  turn  it  into  your  left  hand,  take  another  from  the  paper  in  the 
same  way,  join  2  sides  which  were  next  the  paper  together.  The 
soft  inside  may  be  taken  out  with  handle  of  small  spoon,  the  shells 
filled  with  jelly,  jam,  or  cream,  then  joined  together  as  above,  cement- 
ing them  with  some  of  the  mixture. 

Pumpkin  Custard. — Hubbard  squash  is  richer  and  sweeter  than 
pumpkin,  and  any  left  from  dinner  can  be  used  for  the  custards.  1 
quart  of  hot  milk,  a  large  cupful  of  strained  squash,  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter  and  1  of  salt,  a  cupful  of  sugar  in  which  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon  and  a  pinch  of  ginger  have  been  mixed,  and  3  eggs,  beaten 
light.    Mix  squash  and  milk,  add  ^he  other  ingredients,  the  eggs  last, . 


DESSERTS.  427 

and  pour  into  custard  cups,  which  must  be  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Bake  till  firm,  about  half  an  hour,  testing  with  a  knife  blade.  If  it 
comes  out  clean,  they  are  done.     Serve  icy  cold. 

Plum  Puddingy  Glace. — This  is  the  most  agreeable  way  of  serv- 
ing plum  pudding  in  summer.  An^ce-cream  may  be  used  for  it,  the 
best  being  a,.cream  without  flavor,  and  colored  a  light  chocolate  color. 
Cut  plum  pudding  or  rich  fruit  cake  in  slices,  dip  them  in  brandy  and 
cut  or  break  in  tiny  pieces.  After  the  cream  is,  frozen,  stir  in  the 
plum  pudding  and  pack.  This  pudding  is  sometimes  served  with  a 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream  laid  on  each  slice,  and  on  the  cream  one 
or  two  candied  cherries. 

!Lemoii  Honej. — Lemon  honey  is  a  queer,  old-fashioned  dessert, 
which  is  easily  made  and  delicious  for  a  summer  night  country 
dinner.  Stir  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  whites  of  4  eggs  into,  a 
pouiid  of  granulated  sugar.  Add  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  grated 
rinds  of  2,  and  a  scant  2  ounces  of  butter.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire, 
stirring  constantly,  and  when  the  mass  is  thick  and  clear  like  honey, 
pour  it  into  custard  cups  and  set  in  the  ice-box.  If  you  wish  to  make 
this  dessert  a  trifle  more  elaborate,  add  a  meringue  to  each  cup  be- 
fore setting  away  to  cool.    It  is  also  used  as  a  cake  filling. 

Custard  Pudding. — Boil  1  quart  of  milk.  Moisten  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cornstarch  into  a  little  cold  milk  and  stirwith  the  boiling 
milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  half  a.  cup  of  sugar  together  and 
add  to  the  milk.  Take  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
Vanilla,  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a-  stiff  froth,  add  3  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  heap  on  top 
of  the  pudding,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  5  minutes.  Set  on  ice  until 
very  cold  and  serve. 

Vermicelli  Dessert. — Put  on  1  pint  of  milk  with  2  ounces  of 
desiccated  cocoanut,  and  let  it  get  quite  hot,  then  add  one-quarter 
pound  of  vermicelli ;  let  this  cook  till  tender.  Now  add  2  ounces  of 
well-washed  and  picked  sultanas,  put  the  mixture  into  a  glass  dish, 
pour  over  it  1  cup  of  cream,  and  sprinkle  the  whole  over  with  bleached 
and  chopped  pistachio  nuts,  v  ' 

-  Pistacbe  Cakes. — Perfectly  delicious  for  afternoon  tea  or  for  a 
"  high  tea,"  are  pistache  cakes.  Beat  up  5  ounces  each  of  butter  and 
fine  sugar,  6  ounces  of  flour,  and  3  eggs  well  beaten,  adding  the  flour 
and  eggs  alternately.     Bake  this  mixture  in  a  shallow  tin.    When 


4as  CSSSBRTd. 

quite  cold,  cut  ft  Into  roands  with  aprfcot  or  peach  marmalftdej;*!^ 
pile  several  each  above  the  other.  Cover  the  last  layer  with  a  little 
of  the  marmalade,  and  then  sprinkle  very  thickly  with  blanched  pis> 
tachio  nuts.  Fill  the  centre  with  whipped  cream,  strew  it  with  nuts, 
and  garnish  the  heap  with  little  heaps  of  the  cream  and  nuts, 

"My  Own"  Pudding'. — Set  1  quart  of  milk  to  boil ;  while  it  is 
heating  mix  1  cup  of  cornstarch  with  enough  cold  water  to  form  it 
into  a  thick  batter ;  add  to  this  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  i 
eggs ;  take  the  milk  from  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  eggs,  cornstarch  and 
sugar ;  beat  all  together  a  few  minutes,  or  long  enough  only  to  cook 
the  eggs.  Then  take  out  the  pudding,  and  while  hot  put  over  it  a 
layer  of  jam  or  jelly.  Have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  bekten  light  with 
1  cup  of  fine  sugar ;  put  this  over  the  jam  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Amber  Pndding. — Six  large  apples,  3  ounces  of  moist  sugar,  1 
lemon,  2  ounces  of  butter,  3  eggs,  puff  paste,  a  few  preserved  cherries ; 
peel,  cote  and  slice  the  apples ;  place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the  but- 
ter, sugar  and  lemon  rind  and  let  them  stew  slowly  until  tender ;  then 
rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve ;  line  the  edges  of  a  pie  dish  with  puff 
paste  and  decorate  it  tastefully ;  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  the 
apples  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  pie  dish ;  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  20  minutes  ;  whip  the  whites  very  stiff  and  spread  them 
over  the  apple  ;  dredge  over  a  little  white  sugar,  garnish  with  a  few 
preserved  cherries,  then  place  the  pudding  in  a  cool  oven  to  set  the 
white  of  egg;  it  will  take  ajaout  10  minutes  and  shoula  get  a  very 
light  brown. 

Potato  Cbeese  Cakes. — ^They  are  a  most  delicious  dainty.  One- 
fourth  pound  of  freshly  cooked  potatoes  well  mashed.  Add  to  that 
one-fourth  pound  of  butter  and  one-fourth  pound  of  white  sugar. 
Then  add  2  eggs,  beating  all  the  time;  then  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  the 
rind  cut  yery  fine,  and  one-fourth  pound  of  currants  well  washed  and 
dried.  Put  in  the  juice  of  the  lemon  last  of  all.  Line  small  tart  tins 
with  puff  paste,  or  pie  plates  will  do.  Put  in  the  mixture.  Don't 
put  a  cover  on.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Clabber. — In  the  summer  clabber  is  usually  served  at  least  for 
dinner  and  ofttimes  for  supper.  A  particularly  nice  way  of  serving 
this  is  to  have  a  bowl  for  each  member  of  the  family,  into  which 
strain  the  milk,  and  when  it  turns,  i.  e.,  becomes  a  smooth  thick  cake 
like  blanc  mange,  serve  in  the  same  dish,  eaten  with  white  SMugx 


DESSERTS.  42© 

sprtnkkd  over  it.     Tbia  k  really  a  deligiitfal  dwBert,  though  so 
simplft.  -^ 

Syllabub. — Syllabub  is  a  very  old-fashioned  dish.  To  make  it, 
dissolve  half  a  pound  of  cut  sugar  in  1  teacupful  of  wine ;  heat  3 
pints  of  cream  lukewarm,  pour  the  wine  on  it,  holding  it  several  feet 
above  and  pouring  very  slowly,  so  as  to  cause  the  cream  to  froth. 

Airy  Nothing. — Six  egg  whites ;  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar ;  1  cupful 
jelly.  Beat  the  egg  whites ;  then  add  the  sugar ;  beat  for  hal^  an 
hour  and  then  beat  in  the  jelly  and  set  on  the  ice.  Serve  in  saucers 
with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Moonsbiine. — Make  1  quart  of  rich  cream  very  sweet,  grate  half 
a  nutmeg  over ;  put  into  a  glass  dish,  then  beat  very  stiff  3  egg 
whites,  add  half  a  cup  powdered  sugar  and  sufficient  currant  jelly  to 
color  the  froth.  When  thoroughly  beaten  and  perfectly  smooth  drop 
the  froth  from  a  large  spoon  on  the  cream,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place 
until  served. 

Fruit  Desserts. 

Apple  Meringue. — Stew  a  quart  of  sour  apples,  and  add  the 
juice  and  part  of  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon;  together  with  sugar  to 
suit  the  taste.  Strain  the  apples  through  a  colander  and  place,  them 
in  a  nice  piidding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  to 
which  add  with  a  spoon  1  cupful  of  fine  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  or  lemon  extract.  Spread  this  frosting  over  the  apples,  and 
set  the  pudding  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly,  after  which  placd  it 
where  it  will  become  ice  cold.  The  yolks  of  the  eggs  may  be  used, 
with  the  addition  of  1  whole  egg,  to  make  a. caramel  custard  in  cups 
for  the  next  day's  dessert. 

Tuttl  Prutti  Apples. — A  choice  dessert  is  made  from  large,  well- 
flavored  and  rather  tart  apples.  Pare  the  apples,  take  out  the  cores 
and  put  them  in  a  baking  pan.  Sift  over  them  after  they  begin  to 
bake  enough  granulated  sugar  to  coat  the  outsides.  Bake  until  ten- 
der and  somewhat  brown,  but  take  them  from  Ae  oven  while  they 
are  ^till  whole.  Put  them  in  a  flat  and  rather  deep  dish.  Chop  2- 
dozen  blanched  almonds,  and  mix  with  thern  4  ounces  of  seeded  and 
chopped  raisins,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  dried  currants.  Add  to 
these  a  half  cupful  of  water,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  the  grated 
yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  dessertspoonful*  of  lemon  juice.  Sim\ 
mer  half  an  hour,  then  boil  hard  for  10  minutes.    Fill  in  the  centre 


430  DESSERTS.   - 

of  the  apples  with  this  mixture  and  pour  that  which  is  left  over  the 

outside.     Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream.    A  mixture  of  chopped 

candied  fruits  may  be  added  to  a  syrup  and  used  in  the  same  way. 

Apple  Sponge. — ^Cover  half  a  box  of  gelatine  with  cold  water 

and  allow  it  to  stand  for  half  an  hour;  then  pour  over  it-half  a 

pint  of  boiling  wat^r,  and  stir  uiitil  dissolved.     Press  a  pint  of  stewed 

apples  through  a  sieve  and  mix  with  the  gelaltine;  add  a  pound  of 

sugar,  and  stir  until  it  melts ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  2  lemons  ;  turn 

the  mixture  into  a  tin  pan ;  set  on  ice  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 

Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs ;   stir  into  the  apples ;-  beat  all  together 

until  thick  and  cold.     Pour  into  a  mould  and  set  on  ice  to  harden. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  plain  cream  and  sugar. 

Apple  or  Peach  Meringiie. — One  quart  of  strained  apple  sauce, 

or  8  tart  apples  stewed  soft  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve.     If  canned 

peaches  are  used,  add  a  cupful  of  sugar,  stew  soft 

and  rub  through  a  sieve.      For  the   apple,  add 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a-teaspoonful  of  lemon  or 

vanilla  extract  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs. 

'Butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  the  mixture,  and  bake 

20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.     Beat  the  4  whites  to 

a   stiff  froth,  and  add  4  tablespoonTuls  of  pow- 

„        .      ,    „  dered  sugar :  spread  over  the  hot  pudding  and 

Gem  Apple  Oorers. .  i-  tJli         t7  ^      i.  u      -^i. 

brown  very  lightly.     Eat  when  ice  cold,  with  or 

without  cream.     Without  the  meringue  this  compound  will  keep  in  ' 

the  ice-chest  for  many  days  without  losing  any  of  its  delicate  flavor. 

Apple  Float. — Boil  the  apple  till  tender,  and  press  through  a 
sieve  till  the  whole  pulp  is  entirely  free  from  lumps.  Sweeten  to 
taste,  and  beat  through  it  the  whites  of  several  eggs  that  have  already 
been  well  frothed.  Lemon  juice  or  nutmeg  can  be  added  if  flavoring 
is  desired.  Now  pour  the  float  into  a  handsome  glass  bowl,  and 
on  top,  with  a  large  spoon,  heap  the  whipped  whites  of  eggs  or 
whipped  cream,  and  dust  sugar  and  nutmeg  over  it,  and  here  and 
there  drop  clear  apple  jelly  on  it.     Eat  with  cream,  plain  or  whipped. 

Apple  Trifle. — Take  smooth,  well-sweetened  apple  sauce,  chill, 
put  in  a  deep  glass  dish,  and  heap  whipped  cream  over  the  top.  De- 
licious. 

Apple  Whip. — Make  a  pint  of  milk  into  rich  boiled  custard,  by 
adding,  when  at  boiling  point,  a  teacupful  of  sugar,  a  bit  of  butter 


Desserts.  431 

the  size  of  a  small  walnut,  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir -all  together  till  smooth  and  creamy;  then 
add  1  pint  of  apple  sauce  which  has  been  put  through  a  fine  strainer, 
and  beat  all  together.  A  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  is  to  be  added  when 
cold,  and  at  the  last,  just  before  serving,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Gold  Peacb  Pudding. — One  quart  peaches,  sliced ;  three-fourths 
cup  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  1  pint  milk,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt.  Put  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  set  on  the  fire,  beat  together  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  eggs  ;  stir 
this  into  the  mixture  of  the  boiling  milk ;  cook  for  15  minutes,  stir- 
ring often ;  take  from  the  fire ;  add  the  vanilla ;  set  the  bowl  in  a  cool 
place ;  pare  and  slice  the  peaches.  When  the  cream  is  cold,  stir  the 
peabhes  into  it.  Stand  the  pudding  on  ice  for  an  hour.  Turn  into  a 
glass  dish  to  serve. 

Peacb  Meringue. — Boil  1  quart  of  milk,  omitting  one-half  cup  to 
moisten ;  2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch.  When  the  milk  boils,  add  the 
moistened  cornstarch  ;  stir  constantly  until  thick ;  remove  from  fire, 
add  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  let  cook.  Then  beat  in  yolks  of  3  eggs 
until  the  mixture  seems  light  and  creamy ;  add  one-half  cup  jiow- 
dered  sugar.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  baking  dish  with 
2  or  3  layers  of  rich,  juicy  peaches  (pared,  halved  and  stoned),  sprin- 
kle with  3  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  pour  over  them  the  cus- 
tard, and  bake  20  minutes,  then  spread  with  the  light  -beaten  whites, 
well  sweetened,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Serve 
with  cream  or  a  rich  sauce.     Nice  without  any  dressing. 

Banana  Trifle. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  3  fresh  eggs,  half  cup 
of  sugar ;  scald  all  to  a  soft  custard ;  when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla ; 
have  ready  a  deep  dish  with  6  bananas  peeled  and  sliced  thin,  and  a 
few  slices  of  sponge  cake;  pour  the  above  over  this  and  set  away 
where  it  will  get  cold. 

Banana  Tapioca. — A  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night.  Next 
morning  put  into  a  farina  kettle  with  as  much  water  as  one  would  use 
for  cooking  rice;  when  cooked  perfectly  clear,  sugar  it  and  salt  it  as 
one  likes  it,  slice  six  bananas,  stir  into  the  hot  pudding,  cool  it  in  a 
mould  and  serve  it  with  whipped  cream. 

Banana  Moonshine. — ^Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  to  a  very  stiff 
froth.    Then  add  gradually  7  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  beat- 


432  DESSERTS. 

ing  until  stiff  and  hard.  Then  beat  in  half  a  cupful  of  banana  which 
has  been  whipped  to  a  cream.  Set  on  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Banana  Meringue. — Put  in  a  saucepan  a  quart  of  milk, /half  a 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  smoothly  mixed,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs ;  set  this  over  boiling  water,  and  when 
nearly  boiling  remove  at  once.  When  cold,  stir  in  half  a  dozen  sliced 
bananas  and  turn  into  a  glass  dish;  cover  the  top  with  meringue 
made  fronv  the  whipped  whites  and  serve  with  lady-fingers  and 
whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  Crean^  PuddingfJ — To  make  pineapple  cr^am  pudding 
for  6  persons,  use  1  pineapple  of  medium  size,  1  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs, 
three-fourths  of,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  2  tablespbonfuls  of  flour,  one-fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Put 
the  milk  in  the  double  boiler  and  oh  the  fire.  Beat  together,  until 
light  and  smooth,  the  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  eggs.  Stir  this  mixture 
into  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  for  15  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 
Then  take  from  the  fire  and  turn  the  mixture  into  a  bowl.  Beat  the 
vanilla  extract  into  the  mixture  jmd  set  the  bowl'away  in  a  cool  place. 
Pare  the  pineapple  and  grate  it  into  a  deep  dish.  When  the  cream 
becomes  cool  stir  the  pineapple  into  it,  then  place  the  pudding  in  the 
refrigerator  for  an  hour  or  more,  to  chill  it  thoroughly.  Turn-into  a 
glass  dish  and  serve.     Serve  plain,  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Strawberry  Pudding. — Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Add  the'juice  of  1  cup  of  berries  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and  simmer  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from, 
the  fire,  partly  cool  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  with 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Add  1  quart  of  very  ripe  strawbe'rries. 
Serve  cold  with  sauce  made  of  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  1  cup  of 
sugar,  stirred  to  a  cream  and  piled  on  top. 

Strawberry  Bread  Pudding. — Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  half 'a 
cup  of  sugar,  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  stale  crumbs.  Mix  and 
turn  in  a  baking  dish.  Bake  until  "  set "  in  a  moderate  oven  about  20 
minute?.  Take  out  and  cover  thickly  with  sugared  berries.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  light,  add  to  them  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  beat  again.     Spread  over  the  berries,  dust  thickly. 

Stvawb«rry  Puff  Fuddinff.— -Sift  2  tablespoonfuls  ®f  baking 
powder  with  1  pint  of  flour;  beat  well  1  egg;  add  a  little  salt;  mix 


DESSERTS.  438 

with  sweet  milk  till  of  the  consistenqr  of  thick  batttr ;  place  well- 
greased  cups  in  a  steamer ;  put  into  each  a  spoonful  of  batter,  then  a 
spoonful  of  strawberries,  and  cover  with  another  spoonful  of  batter, 
steam  20  mjnutes.  Eat  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  a  liquid  hot  sauce 
with  a  cupful  of  strawberry  juice  added. 

Custard  Strawberries. — Put  1  pint  of  milk  on  the^ stove;  wlien"it 
comes  to  a  boil  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  half  cup  of  sugar  and  stir  in 
the  boiling  milk ;  after  it  thickens  take  from  the  fire  and  cool ;  have 
ready  a  box  of  strawberries  with  sugar  put  over  them,  then  turn  the 
custard  over  them  and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  3  teaspoons 
of  powdered  sugar  and  frost  it ;  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Jellied  Strawberries. — Melt  2  ounces  of  gelatine  in  a  little  cold 
water;  squeeze  the  juice  from  a  quart  of  currants,  and  add  to  the  gela- 
tine, and  sweeten;  stem  a  pint  and  a  half  of  ripe  strawberries; 
mix  in  the  currant  juice;  turn  into  a  mould;  set  on  ice  to  harden, 
and  serve  with  cream. 

Strawberry  Gelatiae. — Take  half  a  box  of  gelatine,  dissolve  in 
half  cup  of  cold  water;  then  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste.  Now  take  a  glass  dish,  pour  a  little  on  the  bot- 
tom, set  on  ice,  when  stiff  put  a  layer  of  strawberries  on  top  and  cover 
with  gelatine;  set  on  ice;  when  stiff  this  time  put  on  another  layer  of 
strawberries,  powder  with  sugar,  and  you  have  a  very  nice  and  cheap 
dessert. 

Orange  Ambrosia  Pudding. — Fill  a  glass  dish  with  layers  of 
orange  and  banana,  or  alternate  layers  of  oranges,  strawberries,  and 
sliced  bananas.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cocoanift,  if  desired.  Sweeten 
well.  Make  a  custard  with  a  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs  (leave  out  1  white^, 
a  little  flour  or  cornstarch,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  not  to  make  it  stiff, 
but  a  little  thicker ;  pour  the  custard  over  the  fruit.  The  white, 
beaten  stiff,  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  can  be  dropped  in  spoon-, 
fuls  over  the  top.     Serve  very  cold. 

Orange  Jelly,  in  Baskets. — With  a  sharp  penknife  cut  half  way 
round  the  centre  of  the  orange,  leaving  a  strip  half  an  inch,  in  width 
to  serve  as  a  handle;  take  out  all  the  pulp;  when  finished,  the  skin 
of  the  orange  should  be  in  the  form  of  a  basket;  the  basket  should 
be  a  little  more  than  half  the  depth  of  the  orange.  Now,  with  a. 
pair  of  scissors  cut  the  top  edge  of  the  basket  in  points.  Tp  make 
the  jelly,  strain  the  pulp  of  the  oranges;  soak  one-half  box  of 

eOOK— 28 


434  DESSERTS. 

gelatine  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water  until  soft ;  add  1  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  and  1  pint  of 
orange  j  uice.  Stir  till  the  sugatis  dissolved,  and  strain.  When  cool,  fill 
the  orange  skins,  which  have  in  the  meantime  been  carefully  washed 
cleaned,  and  placed  in  a  pan  of  broken  ice  to  keep  upright,  and  at  the 
same  time  to  chill.  Some  cooks,  when  they  are  ready  to.  serve,  put 
a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  over  the  jelly  in  each  basket.  To  serve 
these  baskets,  they  should  be  placed  on  small  doilies,  and  a  ribbon- 
bow  of  yellow,  or  pale  blue  satin  tied  on  each  handle.  Or,  send  to 
table  in  a  bed  of  orange,  or  laurel,  or  some  other  kind  of  pretty 
green  leaves. 

Orange  Tapioca.— Wash  3  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  cover  with 
cold  water  and-soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  heat  1  pint  of  milk, 
in  a  double  boiled,  add  the  tapioca,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  boil  20  min- 
iates. To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  half  a  teacupful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  milk,  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and  boil  for  5  minutes. 
Then  pour  into  a  pudding  dish;  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of 
eggs,,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  flavor  with  orange  extract, 
and  stand  in  a  moderate  oven  to  brown  slightly.^  Pare,  slice  thinly, 
and  remove  the  seeds  of  6  or  8  large  sweet  oranges,  lay  in  the  bottom 
of  a  glass  dish,  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  and  between  each  layer. 
When  the  pudding  is  cold  run  a  wet  knife  around  to  loosen  the  edge, 
lay  it  over  the  fruit,  and  serve. 

Orange  Cream. — Grate  1  lemon  and  2  oranges ;  mix  with  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  water.  Put  in  a  small  saucepan,  set 
on  the  stove  until,  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  beat  3  eggs  and  stir  in;  set 
off  to  cool.  When  thick,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  whipped  cream.  Set 
on  ice  until  very  cold,  and  serve  with  cake. 

Orange  Float. — Add  the  juice  of  3  lemons  to  a  quart  of  water; 
put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  cup  of  sugar ;  set  on  the  fire  until  it  boils ; 
stir  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Peel  6 
large  oranges,  slice  and  lay  in  a  deep  glass  dish ;  poUr  the  mixture 
over.  Spread- the  top  with  meringue,  and  serve  very  cold  with 
sponge  cake. 

Orange  SnowbaUs. — Boil  1  cup  of  rice,  and,  when  cool,  spread 
evenly  on  6  or  8  duncipling  cloths.  Pare  as  many  small  oranges, 
taking  off  all  the  white  skin,  and  tie  the  fi-uit  surrounded  by  the  rice 


DESSERTS.  435 

in  the  cloths,  boiling  steadily  for  one  hour.    Turn  out,  cover  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  a  rich  liquid  sauce. 

Currant  Meringrue. — Crush  together  a  cupful  of  currants  with 
an  equal  measure  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  round- 
ing teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  this  into  the  currants,  adding  a  little 
water,  unless  the  fruit  is  quite  juicy.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  deep 
pie  plate  and  bake.  When  it  is  doTae,  cover  the  top  with  a  meringue 
made  from  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of . 
sugar.    Brown  slightly  in  the  oven  and  serve  cold. 

Red  Currant  Snow. — A  pint  of  boiling  water,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  cornstarch  and  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Remove  from  the  fire  when 
cooked  thick,  and  add  the- juice  of  2  cups  of  red  currants,  crushed 
and  pressed  through  a  colander.  Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  add  a 
little  sugar,  and  pour  over  all. 

Blackberry  Cream. — Sprinkle  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  over  2 
quarts  of  ripe  berries,  and  mash  them  with  a  heavy  spoon  or  wooden 
pestle.  Set  aside  for  a  couple  of  hours,  then  strain  the  juice  through 
a  thin  cloth,  and  add  another  half  cupful  of  sugar.  Partially  whip  a 
pint  of  sweet  cream,  to  which  add  the  fruit  juice;  continue  the  whip- 
ping, gradually  adding  the  stiff-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  When  no 
more  cream  arises  from  the  whipping,  serve  at  once. 

Blackberry  Musb  or  Flummery. — To  a  quart  of  ripe  blackber- 
ries add  a  pint  of  water  and  cook  till  tender,  then  stir  in  a  little  corn- 
starch, arrowroot  or  wheat  flour  to  thicken  the  cooked  fruit  to  a 
proper  consistency,  and  make  a  jelly  or  mush  of  it.  Sweeten  to  taste, 
and  serve  either  warm  or  cold  with  cream.  Be  careful  not  to  get  the 
mixture  too  stiff  or  too  sweet,  as  in  either  case  much  of  its  flavor  and 
delicacy  is  destroyed.  Dewberries,  strawberries,  raspberries  or  any 
of  the  small  fruits  can  be  used  in  the  same  way,  and  all  make  deli- 
cibus  mushes.  Any  kind  of  fruit  mush  makes  a  very  delicate  dessert 
in  hot  weather;  and  when  blackberries  are  in  season  there  is  no  more 
dainty  and  healthful  breakfast  dish  than  blackberry  mush.  Mould 
and  serve  with  cream. 

Fruit  Sauce  for  Puddings.— Mash  a  quart  of  ripe  fruit,  beat  it, 
sift  a  cupful  of  sugar  over  it  and  set  away.  If  the  fruit  is  very  sweet, 
less  sugar  will  be  required.  About  10  minutes  before  the  sauce  is 
needed  set  it  over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly.  When  heated  nearly 
to  boiling,  turn  it  about  the  base  of  the  puddijig,  which  has  been 


466  DESSERTS. 

jUtatd  in  &  de«p  platter  Fruit  saace  is,  by  th^  bye,-  aa  sttractive  lb 
appearance  as  it  is  delicious  in  taste.  ' 

Raspberry  Float. — One  quart  red  raspberries ;  whites  of  4  eggs; 
6  tablespopnfuls  sugar.  Mash  berries,  add  half  cup  sugar ;  let  stand 
half  an  hour ;  press  through  strainer.'  Beat  whites  to  stiff  froth,  add 
raspberry  juice  a  little  at  a  time.  Serve  in  small  glass  dishes  with 
cake. 

Raspberry  Trifle. — Six  small  sponge  cakes,  such  as  are  sold  for 
a  cent  a  piece  at  bakers'  shops ;  1  quart  of  milk ;  5  eggs  ;  1  cup  of 
sugar ;  1  quart  red  raspberries ;  1  cup  of  sweet  cream ;  vanilla  for 
flavoring.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  flavoring  with  the  vanilla.  Split  the  cakes ;  lay  half  of  them 
in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish ;  pour  over  them  half  the  cream,  and 
strew  thickly  with  the  berries  sprinkled  with  sugar.  Cover  these 
with  a  second  layer  of  cake,  moistened  with  the  rest  of  the  cream, 
and  spread  with  the  remainder  of  the  berries.  Pour  the  ice-cold  cus- 
tard over  all ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  meringue  with  a 
little  powdered  sugar ;  mix  in  a  handful  of  berries,  and  heap  the  me- 
ringue on  top  of  the  trifle. 

Raspberry  Meringue. — Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  light  pastry, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  While  still  warm,  spread  thickly  with  red 
raspberries.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff 
with  a  half-cUpful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  when  it  is  a  froth  stir 
lightly  through  it  a  half-pint  of  raspberries.  Heap  the  meringue  on 
top  of  the  berries  in  the  pie  plate,  and  broWn  Afery  delicately  in  the 
oven. '  Eat  as  soon  as  it  is  cool.  ^ 

Tapioca  Fruit  Dessert. — Make  a  plain  blanc  mange  or  jelly  by 
boiling  soaked  tapioca  until  9lear  in  either  milk  or  water ;  put  a  layer 
of  mixed  preserved  and  candied  fruits  in  a  glass  dish,  and  when  the 
tapioca  has  cooled  sufficiently,  pour  a  part  of  it  over  them ;  add  more 
fruit  and  the  remainder  of  the  tapioca.     Serve  cold. 

Rhubarb  with  liemon  Cl-eam. — Over  some  rich  stewed  rhubarb 
pour  the  following:  Mix  well  together  6  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  and  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  then  add  1  pint  of  sweet  thick 
cream  and  whisk  it  to  a  froth.  This  is  also  nice  over  strawberries, 
raspberries,  or  almost  any  fresh,  ripe  fruit. 

Rbubarb  Tapioca. — Wash,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  1  quart  of 
rhubarb.    Cook  it,  with  1  pint  of  sugar,  in  a  porcelain  or  granite 


DESSERTS.  '^7 

do«tte  bdkr,  until  tender ;  do  not  stir  It.  Skim  it  out  ow^fblly  and 
put  it  into  an  earthen  pudding  dish.  To  the  syrup  left  in  the  double 
boiler  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make  1  quart,  and  when  boiling 
add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  pearl  tapioca.  Let  it  boil  1  hour,  then 
pour  it  over  the  rhubarb.  Add  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
bake  aboqt  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  foamy  sauce  or  with  cream. 

Plum  Custard. — Stone  and  stew  a  pint  of  plums.  Lay  them  in 
the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  pour  over 
them  a  cream  made  by  cooking  together  until  thick  and  smooth  2 
Gups  of  milk  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  adding  to  this  after  it 
comes  from  the  fire  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
beaten  light.  Bake  the  cream-covered  plums  10  minutes,  cover  them 
with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  brown  lightly,  and  eatijold  with  cream. 

Plum  Pudding-. — Stew  a  quart  of  plums,  remove  the  pits,  sweeten, 
and  pour  them  into  an  earthen  pudding  dish.  Cover  them  with  a 
thick  batter,  made  by  taking  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk,  1 
egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  flour  sufficient  to  give  the 
right  consistency.  A  soft  biscuit  dough  may  also  be  used  for  the 
covering.  Steam  for  an  hour  or  bake  for  half  as  long.  On  remov- 
ing from  the  dish,  invert  the  pudding,  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Quince  Snow. — -Quarter  5  quinces,  boil  until  tender  in  water;  peel 
and  rub  through  a  colander,  sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  add  the  whites 
of  4  eggs.  Beat  all  to  a  stiff  froth  and  pile  with  a  spoon  upon  a  glass 
dish  and  put  in  the  ice-box  to  chill. 

Fruit  Trifle. — Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Then  whisk  in  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cur- 
rant jelly  and  raspberry  jam. 

Grape  Trifle. — Stew  Concord  grapes  and  pass  them  through  a 
colander.  Sweeten  the  pulp  and  juice  and  thicken  it  slightly  with 
cornstarch.  Pour  it  hot  over  small  slices  of  stale  bread,  biscuit  or 
cake.  Before  these  are  soft  enough  to  fall  to  pieces,  pile  them  up  in 
a  glass  dish,  interlaying  with  desiccated  cocoanut.  Cover  with  a  me- 
ringue made  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  with  pulverized  sugar, 
and  dot  with  macaroons  or  walnut  meats  and  strips  of  jelly.  Serve 
cold-  ' 

JelUed  Prunes. — One  pint  of  prunes,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water, 
half  a  package  of  gelatine,  juice  of  2  oranges,  and  half  a  pint  of  .wgar. 


438    .,  DESSERTS. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  1  gill  of  the  water  for  2  hours.  Wash  the  prunes 
in  several  waters,  rubbing  them  well  between  the  hands.  Put  them 
in  a  stew-pan  with  lyi  cups  water;  stew  slowly  for  1  hour.  Take 
up  the  prunes  and  remove  the  stones.  Return  the  fruit  to  the  water 
in  the  stew-pan  and  let  it  boil  up.  Add-the  gelatine  and  take  from 
the  fire.  Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  add  the  sugar  and 
orange  juice.  Put  the  stew-pati  in  a  pan  of  ice  water,  and  stir  the 
preparation  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  into  a  mould,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place  to  harden.  It  should  stand  for  4  or  5  hours,  and  then  be 
served  with  soft  custard  or  whipped  cream. 

Prime  Jelly.— Stone  1  pound  of  prunes  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  them ;  add  one-quarter  pound 
of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  stew  all  gently  for  2  hours ; 
then  pass  the  prunes  through  a  wire  sieve.  Soak  one-half  ounce  of 
gelatine  in  water  and  add  it  to  the  prunes ;  then  break  the  prune- 
stones  and  add  the  kernels  to  the  jelly.  Boil  all  together  for  2  min- 
utes, then  pour  into  a  mould.  This  jelly  is  often  served  in  border 
moulds,  and  the  centre  filled  up  with  whipped  cream.  A  little  car- 
mine improves  the  color,  and  claret  is  sometimes  used  instead  of 
water  to  stew  the  prunes  in. 

Date  Meringue — Is  a  delicate  dessert,  and  may  be  quickly  made 
in  a  case  of  unexpected  company,  if  one  has  at  hand  the  sine  qua  non. 
Beat  the  whites  of  5  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  3  tablespoorffuis  of 
sugar,  and  one-half  pound  of  dates,  stoned  and  cut  up  fine.  Bake  15 
minutes  in  a  modera:te  oven.  Serve,  as  soon  as  cool,  with  thick, 
sweet  cream,  or  a'  custard  made  with  the  yolks. 

Dessert  Dates. — May  have  a  peanut  or  almond  put  in  place  of 
the  stone,  and  the  date  rolled  in  coarse  granulated  sugar,  or  dipped 
in  thin  frosting.  Prettily  arranged,  they^will  be  found  attractive 
alike  to  the  eye. and  the  palate. 

Dates  and  Almonds. — Prepared  together  this  is  an  Eastern  dish, 
very  delicious,  but  almost  too  rich  for  our  liking.-  To  make  it,  cut  a 
slit  in  eath  date,  slip  out  the  stone  and  insert  a  blanched  almond. 
Then  .prepare  a  rich  sugar  syrup.  When  it  boils^  put  in  the  dates, 
stew  gently  until  they  are  easily  pierced  all  throtigh,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  serve  cold. 

Steamed  Dates  or  Figs. — Remove  all  particles  of  dirt  found  oa 
the  dates ;  cut  the  dates  open  lengthwise  and  take  out  the  stone,  also 


DESSERTS. 


439 


an  occasional  worm  next  the  stone.  Pinch  the  dates  together  again, 
and  place  in  dish  loosely.  Have  water  boiling  under  steamer,  put 
dish  of  dates  into  it,  and  steam  10  minutes  only;  Remove  steamer  to 
open  window ;  take  off  the  cover  to  let  the  steam  evaporate.  Serve 
warm  or  cold,  with  or  without  cream.    Figs  can  be  served  same  way. 

Fig  Custard. — Butter  a  two-quart  tin  pudding  mould,  tear  in  half 
figs  enough  ta  cover  the  sides  and  bottom,  first  scraping  them  care- 
fully to  see  that  they  are  free  from  defects.  Make  a  custard  of  a  pint 
of  milk,  3  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuts  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
flavor,  or  2  or  3  strips  of  the  yellow  peel  of  a  lemon.  Thicken  the 
custard  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  macaroons,  or  dried  sponge  cake, 
after  it  has  been  boiled,  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  which 
has  been  soaking  in  cold  water  for  2  hours.  Pour  the  custard  into  . 
the  mould,  cover  it  closely,  and  let  it  cook  in  a  steamer  or  in  the 
oven  for  1  hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  take  it  but  and  set  it  away 
to  become  cold.  Thejj  slip  it  out  of  the  mould,  carefully  loosening 
the  sides  with  a  knife,  and  serve  it  with  a  sauce  of  whipped  cream. 

Cherry  Puddingr< — A  delicious  cherry 
pudding  is  made  of  early  red  cherries  by 
the  following  recipe :  Beat  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  until  light,- then  the  whites,  and  add 
with  a  pint  of  rich  milk;  sift  in  2  pints 
of  flour  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  beat  until  smooth;  then  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  with  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Drain  the  juice  from  3 
teacups  of  stoned  cherries,  dredge  them 
with  flour,  and  stir  with  the  batter ;  turn 
into  a  buttered  pudding  mould ;  cover,  and 
stand  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  to  boil 
for  3  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Cherry  Charlotte. — Cut  in  narrow  strips  a  few  slices  of  stale 
sponge  cake,  and  arrange  these  around  the  sides  of  a  deep  glass  dish. 
Stone  a  quart  of  fine,  juicy  cherries,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar, 
unless  very  sweet.  Pour  these,  juice  and  all,  over  the  sponge  cake. 
Now  whip  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  very  stiff;  sweeten  to  taste,  color 
about  half  of  it  with  red  cherry  juice,  and  pile  it  upon  the  cherries. 
Let  it  remain  in  the  icebox  until  the  moment  of  serving. 


"VHESE  delicious  summer  desserts  are  capable  of 
innumerable  variations.  As  warm  weather  grows 
apace^  and .  the  appetite  for  plain  and  cooked 
fruits  wanes,  these  delicacies  will  tempt  the  most 
jaded  pajate.  The  ways  of  serving  are  so  varied 
that  tiie  most  elaborate  conserve  may  be  pre- 
pared fro;ii  many  ingredients,  or  a  simple  dish 
concocted  of  oddis  and  ends  that  will  be  a  pleas- 
ant and  agreeable  change. 

In  very^many  of  Fruit  Salad  recipes,  wines  and  cordials  are  used 
as  flavoring.  This,  however,  is  not  a  necessity,  for  any  one  who  ob- 
jects to  them  on  principle  will  find  that  a  half  cup  of  orange  juice 
may  be  used  as  a  substitute  in  any  salads  given  in  this  department. 

Fruit  Salad. — Half  box  gelatine ;  use  Rouble  the  amount  in  hot 
weather.  Dissolve  ia  sufficient  cold  water  to  completely  cover. 
Then  pour  overit  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  When  cool  add  1  cup  of 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons.  Arrange  the  fruits  in  a  dish  that 
will  set  level  on  the  ice,  and  pour  the  gelatine  solution  over  all.  Fruits 
as  follows :  1  can  apricots,  1  can  pineapple,  3  oranges,  cut  in  slices ; 
6  bananas,  sliced ;  10  cents  worth  of  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped ; 
peaches,  sliced,  to  equal  the  bananas  in  amount;  add  strawberries 
and  Raspberries.  Mingle  all  carefully  together,  pour  the  gelatine 
over^^nd  set  on  the  ice.     Any  fruit  not  at  hand  can  be  omitted. 

Fruit  Gelatine. — One. box  of  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  cold  water  a 
few  moments ;  add  1  quart  boiling  water,  1 J^  pints  granulated  sugar. 
When  dissolved,  flavor  with  juice  of  3  lemons.  Strain  into  a  mould, 
before  it  begins  to  stiffen ;  add  4  oranges,  sliced  in  small  pieces,  leaving 
the  white  skin;  one-half  pound  of  Malaga  grapes,  split  lengthwise; 
one-half  pound  English  walnut  kernels,  halved;  one-half  teacup  of 
pineapple,  cut  in  small  pieces ;  a  few  seeded  raisins  sometimes  added. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Let  stand  on  ice  until  firm  before  turn- 
ing out.  ;^ 

Banana  Salads.-=-Cut  a  few  bananas  straight  down  the  middle, 
and  then  cut  them  lengthwise  into  strips.     Put  them  in  layers,  with 
slices  of  orange,  in  a  glass  dish,  sprinkling  sugar  plentifully  over  each 
440 


FRUIT  SALADS.  441 

layer.  Lay  aside  for  2  hours,  and  then  serve  with  couple  tablespoon- 
fuls  lemon  juice  poured  over  it  all.  An  excellent  salad  is  made  out  of 
cut  bananas,  served  in  red  currant  or  blackberry  syrup.  Anotl^er 
good  salad  is  of  bananas,  tinned  apricots  and  French  preserved  plums ; 
or,  again,  of  bananas,  grapes,  slices  of  apple,  pear,  orange,  and  black- 
berries. 

Frencli  Banana  Salad. — Put  in  a  salad  glass  a  layer  of  ice  well 
powdered  with  sugar,  and  upon  this  a  layer  of  bananas,  which  have 
been  peeled  and  picked  to  pieces  with  a  silver  fork ;  again  a  handful 
of  chopped  ice  and  sugar,  and  after  this  bananas,  repeating  until  the 
salad  glass  is  as  full  as  required.  Pour  upon  the  fruit  a  wineglass  of 
white  wine,  and  a  wineglass  of  tepid  water,  in  which  you  have  dipped 
a  lump  of  sugar  that  has  absorbed  the  drops  of  almond  essence ;  and 
"another  that  has  absorbed  3  drops  of  genuine  eau  de  cologne,  which 
is  constsintly  used  in  cookery  in  France.  In  the  right  cologne  you 
get  the  compressed  extract  of  rosemary  and  lemon  thyme.  Mix  the 
salad  well,  and  dress  the  top  with  whipped  cream  and  a  few  preserved 
violets.  You  will  not  detect*" the  cologne,  as  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients it  unites  to  produce  a  subtle,  slightly  mysterious,  but  delicious 
flavor.  / 

Sweet  Orange  Salad. — Take  equal  quantities  of  oranges  and 
ripe,  rich  apples,  peeled  and  sliced,  and  the  latter  soaked  in  lemon 
juice.  Dip  both  in  powdered  sugar.  Put  these  in  a  bowl  in  layers 
and  add  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  2  tablespoons  of  orange  iiower 
water.     Omit  the  wine,  add  a  little  lemon  juice.  - 

Strawberry  Salad. — Another  admirable  way  of  serving  straw- 
berries is  in  salads  with  other  fruits — with  sliced  bananas  over  which 
lemon  juice  has  been  squeezed^  for  example,  or  with  shredded  pine- 
apple, this  last  affording  an  unsurpassable  flavor.  ^ 

Peach  Salad.— Cut  some  carefully  peeled  peaches  m  thin  slices, 
dress  them  in  a  circle  with  sifted  sugar.  This  salad  is  to  be  preferred 
only  when  ready  to  serve. 

Pear  Salad. — Peel  and  cut  into  thin  .slices  some  very  fine  ripe 
pears,  sweeten  and  finish  the  same  as  the  peaches. 

Orange  Salad.— tut  the  oranges  without  peeling  them,  and  finish 
the  same  as  for  the  above,  substituting  lemon  juice  for  orange. 

Apple  Salad. — To  be  prepared  and  flavored  the  same  as  the 
pears,  only  suppressing  the  cores  and  seeds.    Use  nice  apples. 


Use  porcelain,  granite,  or  iron  kettles,  or  stone  jars  for 
preserving.  Fruits  that  require  paring  should  be  dropped 
into  cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled  to  prevent  blackening. 
Pare  the  fruit  with  a  silver  knife  to  avoid  discoloration. 
Boil  preserves  gently.  In  preserving,  the  syrup  some- 
times begins  to  rise  so  rapidly  that  there  is  no  lime  to 
move  the  heavy  kettle  aside.  In  such  a  case  it  is  well  to  know  that  a 
teaspoonful  of  cold  water  thrown  into  the  syrup  will  make  it  subside' 
immediately.  Use  granulated  sugar  in  preserving  fruit  and  always 
look  it  over  carefully  before  using.  The  fruit  should  not  be  over-ripe, 
for  if  it  is  too  soft,  it  will  quickly  break  during  the  process  and  have 
an  uninviting  look  when  ready  to  set^away.  ^ 

When  preparing  quinces  for  preserves  and  marmalade,  save  all  the 
peelings,  cores  and  seed.  Cover  these  with  water  and  cook  until  very 
soft.  Strain,  add  to  the  liquid  as  much  sugar  as  you  have  of  juice 
and  boil  until  thick  enough  to  jell.  It  is  not  necessary^ that  preserves 
be  kept  aif-tight,  but  they  should  not  be  put  up  in  large  vessels,  for  a 
mould  js  apt  to  form  on  the  top  after  a  jar  is  opened.  If  possible,  use 
quart  jars.  If  the  jars  have  tops,  close  them  when  filled  as  in  can- 
ning; if  not,  cover  the  preserves  with  paper  that  has  been  dipped  in 
brandy,  after  which  paste  a  circular  piece:  of  paper  over  the  top  of  the 
jar  the  same  as  for  jelly.  An  asbestos  mat  is  a  useful  article  to  keep 
preserves  and  jams  from  burning. 

To  prevent  preserves  and  jams  from  suga^:ing  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  cream  tartar  to  every  gallon  of  fruit  before  it  is  quite  cooked.  A 
very  little  tartaric  acid  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  Preserves  that 
are  candied  may  be  liquefied  by  setting  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water.  Let-the  water  boil  continuously  for  an  hour  or  more. '  To 
keep  from  becoming  mouldy  put  a  few  drops  of  glycerine  around  the 
edges  of  the  jar  before  screwing  on  the  cover.  This  is  a  sure  pre- 
ventive. 

When  preserves  are  but  slightly  fermented,  simply  pouring  off  the 
syrup,  scalding  it,  and  turning-  back  over  the  fruit,  will  be  sufficient. 
If  necessary,  scald  the  entire  fruit  and  juice.    Cleanse  the  jars  thor- 
442 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  443 

oughly.  Rinse,  with  a  little  bi-carbonate  of  soda  in  the  water.  Re- 
turn the  fruit  to  the  jar  and  cover  while  hot.  They  should  be  kept 
in  a  cool;  dry  place,  and  looked  at  every  few  weeks. 

Sugar,  To  Clarify. — Clarify  when  brown  sugar  is  used.  With 
very  nice  white  sugar  this  process  is  hardly  necessary.  Put  the 
sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle  in  the  proportion  of  1  cupful  of  water 
to  1  pound  of  sugar.  To  every  5  pounds  of  sugar  add  i:he  beaten 
white  of  an  egg.  Put  all  together  over  a  slow  fire  to  dissolve,  stir 
and  let  boil  up  once  or  twice,  set  back  a  minute  and  skim.  Return 
to  the  fire  and  let  boil  15  minutes,  removing  and  skimming  several 
times.  "  Then  pour  off  the  clear  syrup,  wash  the  kettle,  pour  back  the 
syrup  and  put  the  fruit  in  to  cook,  adding  more  water  if  necessary. 

Cookingr  Preserves  in  Syrup. — Put  in  only  as  much  as  the  syrup 
will  cover.  When  done  remove  and  add  more  fruit.  If  necessary, 
more  syrup  can  be  made. 

Peaches. 

Peach  Preserves. — Select  peaches  that  are  ripe,  but  not  soft,  and 
free  stones.  Pour  boiling  water  upon  them  and  let  them  stand  5  or  6 
minutes,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  pull  off  the  skins.  Weigh  the 
fruit  after  it  is  pared  and  the  stones  extracted,  and  allow  a  pound  of 
granulated  sugar  to  every  one  of  peaches.  Crack  one-quarter  of  the 
stones,  and  extract  the  kernels.  Put  sugar  and  peaches  in  alternatei 
layers  in  a  stone  jar  and  let  stand  all  night.  Blanch  the  peach  ker- 
nels. The  next  day  pour  off  the  syrup  and  boil  it  a  few  minutes,  set 
off  the  fire  and  skim.  Return  to  the  fire,  and  when^  it  boils  lay  in  the 
peaches,  scattering  the  peach  kernels  among  them.  Boil  very  slowly 
one-rhalf  hour,  then  lay  the  peaches  into  jars,  boil  the  syrup  15  min- 
utes longer  and  pour  over  them.  The  peach  kernels  give  a  delicate 
flavor.  In  canning,  pack  the  peaches  in  the  jar  and  pour  the  syrup 
over  them.  Instead  of  halving  the  peaches  some  cooks  force  out  the 
pit  and  leave  the  peach  as  whole  as  possible. 

Peach  Preserves. — II.  Select  a  white  variety  of  the  fruit,  and  a 
clingstone.  Pare,  and  drop  each  peach  into  a  stone  jar  of  clear 
water.  Scalding  is  a  speedy  way  of  paring,  but  darkens  the  flesh  a 
little  sometimes.  Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  Place  in  the  kettle  a  teacupful  of  water  for  every  4  pounds 
of  fmit,  and  then  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  alternate  layers.    Bojl  until 


444 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 


the  peaches  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  after  which  skim  out  the  fruit 
and  boil  dpwn  the  syrup  as  in  the  preceding  recipe  ;  then  return  the 
fruit  for  a  final  heating.  These  preserves  should  be  kept  in  wide- 
mouthed  glass  jars  or  a  small  stone  jar.  Leave  the  stones  in,  or  not, 
as  preferred. 

Braudied  Peaches. — Select  firm,  ripe  fruit,  which  should  be  pared 
only,  not  halved.  Make  a  thin  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  to  cover  the 
fruit,  and  boil  until  the  peaches  can  be  pierced  easily  with  a  fork. 
Take  out  with  a  skimmer,  and  pack  in  quart  glass  jars.  Make  the 
syrup  very  rich,  and  boil  it  15  minutes.  Add  the  best  brandy  in  the 
proportions  of  2  tablespoonfuls  to  a  quart  can.  Pour  the  syrup,  while 
still  hot,  over  the  peaches,  filling  the  cans  to  the  top  and  seal.  The  old- 
time  method  was  to  add  the  same  amount 
of  brandy  that  there  was  syrup,,  thus  -form- 
ing a  compound  that  had  a  most  Aggressive 
odor  of  liquor,  and  one  repellant  to  refined 
tastes.  Made  in  the  fashion  here  given,  the 
little  dash  of  spirits  simply  gives  a  piquant 
flavor  to  the  preserve. 

Peacli  Butter. — To  1  bushel  of  peaches 
allow  from  8  to  10  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar.  Pare  and  halve  the-  peaches;  put 
into  the  kettle  and  stir  constantly  to  prevent 
sticking  until  perfectly  smooth  and  rather 
thick.  Some  of  the  peach  stones  thrown  in 
and  cooked  with  the  peaches  give  it  a  nice 
flavor,  and  they  can  be  afterwards  skimmed  out.  Add  the  sugar  a 
short  time  before  taking  from  the  fire  j  put  in  jars  and  cover  tight. 
Peaches  should  be  neither  too  mealy  nor  too  juicy. 

Peach  Marmalade.: — Pare  and  quarter  the  peaches.  Allow  three- 
Iburths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water  to  each  pound  of  fr^jti 
Cook  slowly,  stirring  and  mashing  the  fruit;  skim,  and  be  careful  that 
it  does  not  bum  when  nearly  done.  Small  and  imperfect  fruit  can  be 
economically  used  for  marmalade.  To  every  2  pounds  of  fruit  add 
then  the  kernds  of  half-  a  dozen  peach  stones  chopped  fine,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.     Cool  10  minutes  longer  and  put  in  small  jars  or 


Scale. 


jelly  glasses, 
peach  pits. 


Some  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  two,  instead  of  the 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  44ft 

Peaxs. 

Preserved  Pears. — Pare  the  fruit;  divide;  remove  the  core;  add- 
ing"to  each  pound  of  pears  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make 
a  syrup  by  adding  as  many  cups  of  water  as  there  are  pounds  of  sugar. 
Boil  and  skim ;  when  clear  put  in  the  pears  and  stew  until  tender. 
Choose  pears  like  the  Seckle  for  preserving,  on  account  of  flavor  and 
size.  (Leave  small  pears  whole.)  Pears  possess  very  little  decided 
fla-vor  of  their  own,  hence  a  nice  way  is  to  stick  a  clove  in  the  blos- 
som end  of  each  pear.  Another  nice  way  is  to  add  the  juice  and 
thinly  pared  Hnd  of  1  lemon  to  each  five  pounds  of  fruit.  If  the  pears 
are  hard  and  tough,  parboil  them  until  tender  before  beginning  to 
preserve,  and  from  the  same  water  take  what  is  needed  for  making 
the  syrup.  Large  pears  must  be  halved,  or  even  sliced.  Pack  the 
pears  in  jars ;  boil  the  syrup  a  few  minutes  longer,'  and  pour  into 
cover  the  fruit ;  seal  immediately,  or  put  in  jars,  and  simply  tie  down 
when  cold. 

Preserved  Pears. — II.  Pare,  core,  and  quarter  the  fruit,  and  for 
each  pound  of  pears  take  one-half  pound  of  sugar.  Save  the  perfect 
cores  and  skins  and  boil  these  in  sufficient  water  to  cover.  Strain 
this  and  put  the  sugar  in,  let  boil  and  add  the  prepared  fruit ;  stew 
gently  until  the  syrup  becomes  colored  finely.  Can,  and  seal  im- 
mediately. 

Ginger  Pears. — This  is  a  delicious  sweetmeat.  Use  a  firm  pear, 
peel,  core,  and  halve  them.  Have  a  syrup  made  of  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit;  for  8  pounds  of  fruit  use  6 
pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  4  lemons,  i  pint  of  water,  and 
half  a  pound  of  ginger-root  (the  green,  if  possible),  sliced  thin.  Boil 
the  sliced  and  scraped  ginger-root  in  the  pint  of  water  for  20  minutes, 
add  the  sugar,  boil  10  minutes  and  skim.  Then  put  in  the  fruit, 
which  has  been  previously  pared  and  dropped  in  cold  water  to  prevent 
its  turning  black.  Cut  the  lemons  in  long,  thin  strips,  and  cook  all 
together  slowly  until  the  pears  are  tender.  Pack  the  pears  in  jars,  and 
fill  each  jar  up  to  the  brim  with  syrup,  put  on  the  rubbers,  and  screw 
on  the  tops  as  tight  as  you  can.  Be  careful,  when  the  jars  are  cold, 
to  tighten  them  still  further  before  you  set  them  away.  Divide  up 
the  slices  of  lemon-peel  and  pieces  of  ginger  equally  among  the  jars. 
"PWe  is  a  most  delicious  and  rich  preserve,  and  is  especially  nice 


446  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.- 

when  served,  like  preserved  ginger,  with  ice  cream.  The  above  is  an 
old-fashioned  recipe,  dating  back  t6  colonial  times,  when  these  ginger 
fruit  preserves  were  a  special  feature  of -the  tables  of  hospitable 
dames. 

Brandied  Pears. — In  making  brandy  pears,  Bartletts  are  the 
only  variety  that  will  give  entire  satisfaction  when  brandied,  as  they 
have  a  more  decided  flavor  than  any  other.  Select  firm  but  ripe 
pears,  and  proceed  as  for  Brandied  Peaches. 

Pear  Marmalade. — Pare,  peel  and  core  good,  ripe  pears,  and  for 
■every  12  pounds  allow  8  of  sugar  and  1  quart  of  water.  Slice  the 
fruit,  and  put,  it  and  the  water  together  in  a  kettle,  which  stand  on 
the  fire  and  boil  till  the  fruit  is  very  soft.  Titen  add  <  the  sugar,  well 
bruised,  and  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon  tied  together,  so  as  to  form  a 
fagot.  Stir  the  marmalade  over  a  brisk  fire  with  a  clean  wooden 
spoon  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  rather  thick  paste  that  runs  slowly  off  the 
speon.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  pour  at  once  into  either  small 
jars  or  jelly  glasses. 

Quinces. 

Quince  Preserves. — This  variety  of  preserves  requires  a  longer 
time  for  preparation  than  any  other,  but  is  fully  worth  the  extra  time 
and  trouble,  for  it  is  the  prettiest  and  most  palatable  of  all  preserved 
fruits.  Choose  fine,  yellow  quinces ;  pare,  quarter  and  core  them,  or 
cut  in  circular  slices  an  inch  thick;  pare  and  dijg  the  core  from  each, 
so  as  to  leave  the  slice  ring-shaped.  Save  all  the  perfect  cores  and 
skins.  Put  the  quinces  over  the  fire  with  just  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  and  simmer  until  they  are  soft  enough  to  pierce  with  a  yellow 
straw.  Take  out  carefully  with  a  skimmer,  and  spread  upon  broad 
dishes  to  cool.  Add  the  cores  and  parings  to  the  water  in  which  the 
quinces  were  boiled,  and  stew,  closely  covered,  for  an  hour.  Strain 
through  a  jelly-bag.  Return  this  juice  to  the  fire  and  slowly  boil  the 
quinces  in  jt  until  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  steel  fork.  Boil 
only  a  few  at  a  time,  and  when  soft  skim  them  out  and  lay  them  on 
a  platter.  When  all  the  fruit  has  been  thus  cooked,  add  the  sugar  to 
the  juice,  and  when  dissolved  return  the  quinces  for  a  final  cooking. 
The  fruit  must  boil  very  slowly  at  least  an  hour,  in  order  to  take  on 
the  rich  dark-red  color  so  much  desired.  Sometimes  this  color  may 
be  obtained  in  a  shorter  time,  but  the  preserves  must  not  be  removed 
from  the  fire  until  it  appears.    Do  not  cook  the  fruit  too  long  at  the 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  44? 

first  boiling,  as  this  will  render  it  so  tender  that  in  the  second  boil- 
ing it  will  break;  and  do  not  boil  it  entirely  in  the  sugar,  for  this 
makes  it  tough  and  hard,  and  this  condition  will  grow  worse  the 
longer  the  preserves  are  kept.  Pack  the  quinces  in  jars  and  pour  the 
syrup  over  them.^ 

Quince  Preserves. — II.  Pare  and  weigh  the  quinces  according 
to  the  above  directions,  and  allow  only  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  fruit  in  the  liquid  derived  from  straining  the 
boiled  cores  and  pairings,  as  in  the  previous  case,  and  when,  adding  the 
sugar,  also  allow  a  pint  of  vinegar  to  every  4  pounds  of  sugar.  Finish 
the  same  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  To  those  who  do  not  care  for 
the  mild  and,  to  very  many,  the  insipid 'flavor  of  the  quince,  the 
addition  of  the  vinegar  will  prove  an  agreeable  change.  New  cider 
is  better  than  vinegar.  Shred  the  rind  of  an  orange  and  add  for  the 
flavor. 

Quince  and  Sweet  Apple  PreseiVes. — Six  pounds  of  quinces, 
6  pounds  of  hard,  mellow  apples,  and  9  pounds  of  sugar.  Pare, 
quarter  and  core  the  fruit,  and  boil  separately  until  half  done,  in 
enough  water  to  cover  it.  Then  take  out  with  perforated  skimmer. 
Add  the  sugar  to  the  liquor,  and  boil  until  it  is  quite  a  syrup.  Add 
the  fruit  and  boil  slowly  until  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Put  fruit 
in  jars  in  alternate  layers,  reaching  to  within  a  third  of  the  top ;  pour 
in  the  syrup,  seal  when  cool.  The  parings,  cores,  and  any  surplus 
syrup  may  be  used  for  making  jelly. 

Quince  Marmalade.— Ten  pounds  of  fully  ripe  quinces,  juice  of 
6  oranges  and  7^  pounds  of  sugar.  Pare,  core  and  slice  the  quinces, 
put  the  parings  and  cbres  in  a  kettle  with  1  cup  of  water  to  each 
pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  slowly  until  all  the  flavor  is  extracted.  Strain 
off  the  water  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  put  into  it  the  quinces  and 
juice  from  the  oranges,  which  should  be  almost  cold.  Boil  until  the 
fruit  is  a  perfectly  soft,  thick  paste ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  slowly  15 
minutes  more,  stirring  constantly.  If  it  jellies  on  a  cold  plate,  it  is 
done.  A  great  help  is  to  peel,  quarter  and  core  quinces ;  then  run 
through  the  meat  chopper  before  boiling.  It  boils  into  marmalade 
much  sooner. 

Quince  Cheese,  or  Jam.— Mkke  as  for  marmalade  and  boil  down 
until  thick  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife.  Put  in  jars  (small),  cover 
with  paper,  wet  with  brandy,  and  seal  when  cool.    It  can  be  turned 


44S  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

out  with  the  firmnees  of  cheese,  whence  it  takes  its  nsRt«,  and  cwt 
into  slices  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Apples. 

Apple  Preserves. — Mellow,  tart  apples  are  the  best  for  preserv- 
ing. Pare,  quarter  and  core,  or  remove  the  core  and  leave  the  apple 
whole,  as  preferred.  Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1 
pound  of  apples.  Allow  1  sliced  lemon  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Boil 
the  parings  in  water  for  15  minutes,  allowing  1  pint  to  each  pound  of 
fruit.  Strain,  add  the  sugar,  let  boil,  and  when  yvell  skimmed  and 
clear,  add  the  apples  and  let  boil  until  they  are  transparent.  Add  the 
lemon  just  before  canning,  or  flavor  with  bruised  ginger  root,  tied  in 
a  cloth,  and  boiled  in  the  syrup.  Pack  the  fruit  in  jars  and  pour  the 
boiling  syrup  in  until  full.     Seal  at  once. 

Apple  Marmalade. — Pare  and  core  mellow  apples,  cut  in  pieces, 
adding  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  apples. 
Boil  over  a  slow  fire  until  reduced  to  a  fine  pulp.  A  few  cloves  may 
be  added,  or  a  few  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon.  Some  cooks  cut  up  1 
large  quince  and  add  to  the  apples  for  the  flavor.  Put  in  jelly  jars  in 
a  cool  place. 

Ginger  Apples. — ^Weigh  equal  quantities,  of  good  sour  apples  and 
sugar.  Pare,  core  and  chop  the  apples  fine.  Make  a  syrup  of  the 
sugar  and  add  the  apples,  the  grated  peel  of  2  or  3  lemons  and  a  few 
pieces  of  white  ginger.  Boil  until  the  apple  looks  clear  and  yellow. 
This  resembles  forpign  sweetmeats.  The  ginger  is  essential  to  its  pe- 
culiar excellence.     This  will  keep  for  years. 

Best  Apple  Butter. — Make  cider  of  sweet  apples.  Boil  some  of 
it  down  the  day  it  is  made.  Peel  and  core  sweet  apples  and  put  in 
uncooked  cider.  Boil  all  day  if  necessary.  Have  the  boiled  cider 
hot  in  a  kettle  and  thin  the  butter  with  it  as  nfeeded.  Have  a  long- 
handled  paddle  made  of  wood.  Bore  the  blade  with  at  least  twelve 
auger-holes.  Tie  dry  cora  husks  through  the  opening,  and  stir  with 
this.     It  keeps  the  apj)les  from  settling.     The  only  apple  butter. 

Apple  Butter. — II.  Boil  down  3  gallons  of  best  cider  ~  to  one- 
fourth  of  the  quantity,  and  pare  and  core  as  many  mellow  apples  as 
the  cider  will  cover.  Divide  the  cider  in  2  equal  parts  and  put  it  in 
2  kettles  over  the  fire.  Put  the  apples  in  one  of  the  kettles,  and  as 
they  boil  down  add  gradually  the  cid6f  from  the  second  kettle,  which 


PRESERVES  AWD  JAMS.  449 

should  be  kept  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Boil  12  hours,  or  until  it 
is  of  a  fich  brown  color  and  quite  smooth^;  then  add  ground  cloves, 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  brown  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  It  should  have 
another  good  boiling  after  that,  and  should  be  stirred  constantly  to 
prevent  its  adhering  to  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  kettle.  When 
done  it  will  adhere  to  an  inverted  plate.    Put  away  in  earthen  crocks. 

Apple  and  Cranberry  Preserves. — One  quart  of  cranberries,  3 
pints  of  sweet  apples  pared,  cored  and  quartered;  2^  cups  water,  2^ 
cups  of  sugar,  and  cook  until  the  cranberries  begin  to  burst.  Add 
the  apples  and  boil  slowly  until  it  is  soft. 

Citron  Preserves. — Pare,  cut  into  blocks,  square  or  oblong;  boil 
in  water  with  small  piece  of  alum  until  tender ;  drain,  allow  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  citron  and  allow  2 
lemons  for  every  6  pounds.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water  in 
proportion  of  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  water ;  boil  till  clear,  skim, 
add  the  lemons  sliced  very  thin,  seeded,  and  the  citron ;  cook  till  the 
citron  is  transparent. 

Crabapple  Prei|erves. — Core  the  crabapples  through  the  blossom 
end  with  a  sharp  pen-knife.  Leave  the  stems  on.  Weigh  the  fruit  and 
take  pound  for  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  1  cupful  of  water  to  each 
pound  of  sugar.  Put  over  a  moderate  fire,  let  dissolve  and  boil ;  skim 
and  drop  the  apples  in.  Let  them  boil  gently  until  clear  and  the  skins 
begin  to  break.  Skim  out ;  boil  the  syrup  until  thick ;  put  the  fruit 
in  jars  and  pour  the  syrup  over. 

Grapes.  ^ 

Grape  Preserves. — Pulp  them,  boil  the  pulps  until  soft  enough 
to  strain  through  a  colander;  weigh  the  skins  and  pulps  after  the 
seeds  are  removed,  adding  sugar  pound  to  pound;  boil  about  10 
minutes,  until  the  skins  are  sufficiently  cooked.  Or,  take  pound  for 
pound  of  grapes,  and  white  sugar.  Stem  the  grapes,  wash,  and  put 
in  a  preserving  kettle  in  alternate  layers  with  the  sugar.  Cook  over 
a  slow  fire.  Stirring  constantly;  as  the  seeds  rise^skim  them  off.  Stew 
1  hour,  set  aside  to  cool,  and  then  put  in  jars,  tying  up  closely? 

Grape  Marmalade. — Pulp  the  grapes  as  for  preserves  given  above. 
Put  the  pulps,  after  boiling,  through  a  colander  to  free  from  seeds ; 
add  the  pulp  and  skins  together,  adding  three-fourths  of  a  pouijd  of 
sugar  to  1  pound  of  grapes.    (The  grapes  must  be  weighed  previous 

COOK— 29 


450  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

to  beginjiing  work.)  Boil  as  for  aiiy-  other  marmalade  until  of  the 
proper  thickness.  Put  up  in  bowls  and  cover  with  paper.  Or,  make 
of  the  strained  pulps  alone ;  to  a  quart  of  the  pulp  allow  a  pint  of 
sugar  and  boil  40  minutes. 

Grape  ButtefT— Pulp  the  grapes,  put  the  skins  in  a  bag,  stew  the 
pulps  until  the  seeds  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  through  a  colander. 
To  each  pound  of  the  pulp  add  1  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  cider 
vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Boil  this  .very  slowly,  putting  in  the  bag  of 
skins,  tied  securely.  When  it  jellies  by  dropping  in  cold  water  it  is 
done,     Put  away  in  jars. 

California  Grape  Preserves. — A  delicious  preserve  can  be  made 
of  California  grapes.  Cut  each  grape  open  with  a  knife  and  extract 
the  seeds ;  add  sugar  to  the  fruit,  pound  for  pound;  cook  slowly  for 
half  an  hour  or  longer  until  the  syrup  and  pulp  of  the  grape  are  per- 
fectly clear  and  transparent. 

Tomatoes. 

Tomato  Preserves. — ^Take  7  pounds  of  small,  sound,  ripe  toma- 
toes ;  7  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  juice  of  S  lemons.  Sprinkle  the^ 
sugar  over  the  tomatoes  and  let  them  stand  together  over  night  In 
the  morning  drain  offjthe  syrup  and  boil  it,  skimming  it  often ;  put  in 
the  tomatoes  and  boil  them  slowly  for  30  minutes ;  take  out  the  toma- 
toes with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  spread  upon  flat  dishes ;  boil  the 
syrup  down  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  add  just  before  you  take  it 
from  the  fire  the  juice  of  3  lemons.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  jars  and  pour 
over  them  the  hot  syrup,  and  when  cold  seal  or  tie  up  with  thick  paper. 
A  pound  of  raisins  may  be  put  with  this  amount  of  tomatoes ;  put  in 
15  minutes  before  taking  up ;  half  ounce  of  ginger-root  is  an  improve- 
ment.    If  the  tomatoes  are  large,  cut  in  quarters  and  let  drain. 

Plum  Tomato  Preserves. — Seven  pounds  round  yellow  tomatoes 
peeled,  7  pounds  sugar  and  juice  of  3  lemons;  let  them  stand  to- 
gether over  night.  Drain  off  the  syrup  and~  boil  it,  skimming  well ; 
then  put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil  gently  20  minutes.  ,  Take  out  the 
fruit  with  a  skimmer,  and  spread  on  dishes.  Boil  th^  syrup  down  till 
it  thickens,  adding,  just  before  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  the  juice  of  the 
lemons.  Put  the  fruit  into  jars  and  fill  up  with  the  hot  syrup.  When 
cold  seal  up.     Ginger-root,  three-fourths  of  an  ounce,  may  be  used 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  451 

with  or  in  place  of  the  lemons.    A  pound  of  raisins  may  be  added 
also,  but  it  is  very  nice  without.     Seal  up  hot. 

Toiuato  Figs. — Take  yellow  or  red  plum  tomatoes  (yellow  are 
the  firmest).  Prepare  as  above,  using  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  one  of  fruit.  Let  stand  over  night.  The  next  morning  drain 
off  the  syrup ;  place  over  the  fire  and  boil  until  clear ;  add  the  toma- 
toes, and  to  every  7  pounds  of  these  4  ounces  of  ginger-root  tied  in  a  - 
muslin  bag,  the  rind  of  4  lemons  which  have  been  thinly  pared  and 
cooked  for  10  minutes  in  water,  and  also  the  lemons,  sliced  thinly, 
with  the  white  skin  and  seeds  removed.  Boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour, 
lift  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  lay  in  the  sun  on  shal- 
low dishes  to  harden  while  you  boil  down  the;  syrup  until  thick.  Put 
the  fruit  in  jars,  pour  the  syrup  over  and  seal.  Small  green  tomatoes 
may  be  treated  in  the  same  way,  pricking  the  skins  with  a  fork. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves. — Seven  pounds  sugar,  8  pounds  small 
green  tomatoes,  juice  of  4  lemons,  one-half  ounce  mace,  one-half 
ounce  ginger.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  with  a  little  hot  water  and 
put  it  on  t6  boil  with  the  mace  and  ginger  and  lemon  juice.  Prick 
the  tomatoes  with  a  fork  and  put  them  into  the  boiling  syrup.  Boil 
until  the  fruit  is  clear.  Skim  the  fruit  out  of  the  syrup  and  pack  it 
in  jars.  Let  the  syrup  boil  until  thick,  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit.  If 
the  tomatoes  are  large,  cut  them  around  in  halves,  and  then  quarter 
the  halves.  This  shape  is  preferable  to  slices.  This  will  keep  with- 
out sealing,  but  it  is  better  to  put  it  in  small  jars,  as  it  is  so  rich  that 
only  a  little  is  wanted  at  a  time. 

Tomato  Marmalade. — To  2  pounds  of  tomatoes  allow  2  pounds 
of  sugar  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon ;  scald  the  toma- 
toes, take  off  the  skins,  mix  the  sugar  with  them  and  boil  them  slowly 
for  an  hour,  skimming  and  stirring ;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
the  lemons,  and  boil  another  half  hour,  or  till  it  is  a  thick,  smooth 
mass.  ¥ 

Tomato  Butter. — One  bushel  ripe  tomatoes,  half  bushel  apples,  5 
pounds  brown  sugar,  1  ounce  allspice,  1  ounce  cinnamon,  1  ounce 
cloves.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  apples  peeled  and  cored. 
Let  cook  together,  watching  very  carefully,  more  than  half  the  day, 
then  add  the  sugar.  The  juice  must  codk  out  of  them,  and  it  takes 
an  entire  day  to  cook  properly.  An  hour  before  takings  off  add  the 
spices. 


452  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

Melons.  ' 

Watermelon  Preserves. — Remove  all  the  red  part,  pare  the  rinds, 
cut  into  2-inch  pieces  and  soak  in  weak  alum  water  an  hour.  Some 
cooks  soak  over  night  in  the  aliim  water.  Now  boil  in  clear  water, 
or  steam  until  a  fork  pierces  the  pieces  easily.  Make  a  syrup^of  1 
pound  of  white  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  add  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning;  skim.  Add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  to^every  3  pounds 
of  fruit,  and  the  peeled  yellow  rind  of  the  lemon.  Set  back  from  the 
fire  a  moment  while  skimming ;  violently  boiling  liquid  cannot  be 
skimmed.  Boil  the  rinds  in  this  syrup  1  hour,  ot'  until  perfectly  clear. 
Remove  the  lemon  peel ;  pack  the  fruit  in  jars  and  fill  I  up  with  the 
boiling  syrup,  and  seal,  or  simply  put  in  a  jar  and  tie  up  when  cold. 
One  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  and  1  pound  of  fruit  are  used  where 
the  preserve  is  wished  unusually  fine.  Soine  housewives  exercise 
great  skill  in  cutting/ the  watermelon  rind  in  fancy  shapes.  Where 
this  is  to  be  done  leave  the  rind  in  large  pieces  to  soak  in  the  alum 
water ;  this  toughens  it  slightly,  and  it  is  then  time  to  do  the  artistic 
work.  Great  pains  are  taken  wirh  this  in  Virginia.  Stars  and  cres- 
cents, rings,  oak  leaves,  etc.,  can  be  easily  formed,  and  the  effect  of 
the  translucent  gold  and  topaz  forms  through  the  crystal  glass  jars  is 
beautiful.  For  leaves,  take  the  leaf  itself  for  a  pattern,  and  trace  its 
outline  with  an  ivory  point,  and  go  over  the  veinings  as  well.  Then 
with  a  sharp-pointed  blade  of  a  penknife  cut  out  the  shapes  them- 
selves and  cut  deep  into  the  veinings  so  that  they  will  show  plainly. 
The  rings  can  be  cut  out  with  a  cake  cutter  and  the  disks  taken  from 
the  centre  with  a  thimble.  These  disks  make  pretty  balls  to  fill  up 
spaces.     Some  cooks  add  ginger-root  cut  thin,  and  boil  in  the  syrup. 

Muskmelon  Preserves. — Take  perfectly  green  muskmelons,  as 
late  in  the  season  as  possible.  If  preserved  while  the  weather  is  very 
hot,  they  are  apt  to  ferment.  Scrape  the  outer  skin  off  the  rind.  Cut 
them  through  the  middle.  Remove  the  seeds,  and  cut  the  melon  in 
any  shape  preferred.  Soak  them  in  salt  and  water  over  night,  then 
in  clear  water  4  or  5  hours,  changing  the  water  several  times.  Then 
soak  in  alum  water  an  hour.  Rinse  and  put  over  to  cook  in  water 
enough  to  cover,  with  a  handful  of  peach  leaves  (if  convenient)  to  5  / 
pounds  of  melon,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger  tied  up  in  a  cloth. 
The  peach  leaves  turn  the  melon  green,  besides  adding  to  its  flavor. 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  453 

Boil  the  melons  until  you  can  pierce  them  with  a  straw.  Make  a 
syrup  of  white  sugar^  pound  for  pounds  Add  enough  water  to  keep 
froni  burning.  Let  boil  and  skim.  Put  in  the  fruit  and  the  ginger, 
and  boil  it  in  the  syrup  as  long  as  can  be  done  without  breaking  the 
rinds.  If  there  is  not  enough  syrup  to  cover,  add  a  little  water. 
When  cold  tie  up  in  jars.  In  the  course  of  a  week  pour  off  the 
syrup,  scald  and  turn  back  over  the  fruit.  Add  suiificient  essence  of 
lemon  to  flavor  it  before  turning  back  into  jars.  A  fresh  lemon  may 
be  sliced  into  jars  when  cold;  1  lemon  to  2  or  3  pounds  of  the  melon. 
Muskmelon  Butter. — ^Take  very  ripe  melons,  so  ripe  as  to  be  soft ; 
cut  them  open,  take  out  the  seeds,  then  scrape  the  melon  from  the 
rind  with  a  knife,  and  to  every  2  gallons  of  melon  take  2^  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Put  in  a  kettle  and  boil  the  same  as  apple  butter. 
Flavor  while  hot  with  lemon.    Good. 

Pineapples.      ' 

Pineapple  Preserves. — Peel  and  slice,  and  allow  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  each  pound  of  the  sliced  fruit.  Put  fruit  and  sugar 
in  alternate  layers  in  jars  and  let  it  stand  12  or  14  hours.  Take  out 
the  fruit  in  the  morning,  add  to  the  syrup  1  cupful  of  water  for  each 
4  pounds  of  pineapple.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it  thickens,  skim,  let 
cool.  Put  in  the  fruit,  return  to  fire  and  boil  verygentlylintil  tender. 
Take  it  from  the  syrup  and  pack  in  jars,  and  turn  the  syrup  over  it. 
It  can  be  sealed  hot,  or  tied  up  in  jars  when  cold.  If  there  should  be 
in  this  case  the  slightest  signs  of  fermentation,  turn  ofif  the  syrup 
immediately,  scald  and  turn  back  on  the  fruit. 

Grated  Pineapple  Preserves.— Preserved  pineapple  has  all  of 
the  delicious  flavor  of  the  fruit,  and  besides  being  useful  in  all  ways 
that  ordinary  preserves  are  useful,  it  is  supremely  good  for  filling  in 
layer  cakes.  Take  pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Shred  the 
pineapple  with  a  silver  fork,  after  the  eyes  have  been  removed,  until 
nothing  is  left  but  the  core.  The'  core  itself  is  tough  and  stringy,  but 
it  holds  juice,  and  might  be  cooked  to  extract  this,  and  then  removed. 
Put  fruit  and  sugar  together,  and  cook  slowly  half  an  hour. 

Pineapple  Marmalade. — Take  ripe,  juicy  pineapples ;  pare,  cut 
out  the  specks,  and  grate  on  a  coarse  grater  all  but  the  core.  Weigh 
and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  from  20 
minutes  to  half  an  hour. 


454  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

Rhubarb. 

Bhubarb  Jam. — Cut  the  rhubarb  in  pieces  1  inch  long,  take 
sugar  pound  for  pound.  Mix  together  and  let  stand  all  night.  In 
the  morning  pour  off  the  syrup  and  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken ; 
skim ;  add  the  rhubarb,  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour.  Put  up  in  tum- 
blers like-jelly.  It  will  keep  a  longtime.  To  each  quart  of  rhubarb 
1  lemon  can  be  added  for  flavor;  juice  and  the  outside  yellow  rind 
cut  in  bits.     This  can  be  tanned  if  wished. 

Bhubarb  and  Ginger  Preserve.— Wash,  peel  and  cut  up  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  rhubarb,  not  too  young.  Weigh  it,  and  to  every 
pound  of  rhubarb  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  which 
should  be  well  crushed.  Put  all  together  in  a  large  "pan  and  let  it 
stand  all  night,  next  day  put  it  in  a  preserving  pan  with  1  pound  of 
ginger-root,  chipped  up.  Boil  1  hour.  Thi's  makes  an  excellent 
preserve,  the  ginger  giving  it  a  nice  flavor. 

Bhubarb  and  Fig  Jam. — Five  pounds  of  rhubarb,  6  pounds  of 
sugar ;  cut  the  rhubarb  in  small  pieces,  sprinkle  with  the  sugar,  and 
let  stand  all  night ;  chop  pulp  and  peel  of  3  lemons  and  1  pound  of 
figs  quite  fine;  add  to  the  rhubarb;  boil  several,  hours  until  quite 
thick ;  put  in  jars  same  as  jelly;  ^ 

Bhubarb  Marmalade. — Peel  6  oranges,  take  away  the  white 
rinds  and  pips,  slice  the  pulp  and  peel  into  a  preserving  kettle,  cut 
very  small ;  add  a  quart  of  rhubarb  (finely  cut),  and  from  1  to  1  ^ 
pounds  of  sugar.   Boil  down,  same  as  for  other  preserves.    Excellent. 

Plums. 

Plum  Preserves. — Select  small  purple  plums,  and  be  sure  they 
are  sound  and  not  too  ripe.  Remove  the  stems,  wash  the  fruit>  and 
pierce  each  plum  with  a  fork.  Put  into  the  kettle  a  cupful  ,of  water 
to  every  6  pounds  of  fruit,  and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pound 
of  fruit.  Place  plums  and  sugar  in  the  kettle  in  alternate  layers,  and 
boil  slowly.  The  fruit  must  be  closely  watched,  as  it  is  apt  to  go  to 
pieces  in  boiling.  After  it  has  boiled  a  short  time  remove  from  the 
kettle,  and  boil  down  the  syrup.  Plum  preserves  may  be  safely  kept 
in  a  stone  jar.     Four  quarts  of  plums  make  3  quart  jars  of  preserves. 

Plum  Preserves. — II.  The  following  rule  is  equally  good  for 
either  damson  or  green-gage  plums,  the  damsons  being  particularly 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  45S 

nice  to  eat  with  meats.  Make  the,  syrup  for  all  the  plums  to  be  pre- 
served at  one  time,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and 
a  gill  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  for  10  minutes;  then  put 
in  the  syrup  only  enough  plums  to  fill  2  or  3  jars.  Cook  until 
they  can  easily  be  pierced  with  a  straw ;  then  can,  and  put  fresh  fruit 
into  the  boiling  syrup.  If  there  is  any  syrup  left  over  from  preserv- 
'ing  the  plums,  put  in  enough  sugar  to  make  it  jell,  and  cook  a  little 
longer.    This  makes  a  delicious  jeUy. 

Egg  Plum  Preserves. — Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  cover, 
and  let  them  steam ;  uncover  and  pour  water  off;  rub  the  skins  off, 
throw  them  away,  weigh  the  fruit  and  put  in  a  stone  jar.  Make  a 
syrup,  allowing  1  pound  of  white  sugar  and  half  a  teacupful  of  water 
to  each  pound  of  fruit ;  let  the  sugar  boil,  then  skim,  pour  the  syrup 
over  the  plums  and  set  them  away.  Next  morning  put  all  in  a  kettle 
and  cook  slowly  10  or  15  minutes ;  return  the  fruit  and  juice  to  the 
jar  and  let  stand  until  cold ;  then  fit  a  piece  of  white  paper  close  over 
the  fruit,  cover  the  jar  with  a^  double  cloth,  then  with  setreral  thick- 
nesses of  paper,  and  keep  in  dark,  cool  place. 

Plum  Jam. — Put  the  fruit,  slightly  broken,  over  the  fire  with- 
out any  sugar.  Set  in  a  jar  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  It  must  be 
ripe  and  perfefct^ — nothing  else  is  fit  to  use.  When  it  gets  soft,  re- 
move it  from  the  fire,  take  out  all  the  pits,  break  them  with  a  ham- 
mer, and  tie  the  broken  shells,  kernels  and  all,  in  a  bit  of  old  muslin. 
Put  the  fruit  on  again,  adding  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of 
fruit,  after  the  pits  have  been  removed.  Drop  in  the  bag  of  shells. 
Simmer  for  an  hour,  when  it  should  be  ready  for  putting  into  the  jars. 

Plum  Marmalade. — Scald  and  remove  the  skin  of  ripe  plums ; 
take  out  the  pits ;  allow  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit ;  mix 
the  sugar  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  then  cool;  boil  20  minutes, 
then  pour  in  small  dishes  and  let  stand  to  harden.     Seal  in  glasses. 

Plum  Butter.-r-Scald  the  plums  until  they  crack  open ;  when 
cool,  put  them  through  a  colander;  measure  the  plums  thus  pre- 
pared, and  add  three-fourths  the  quantity  of  sugar ;  season  with  any 
desired  spice.     Boihwell  3  hours,  and  it  will  not  require  sealing. 

Pliim  Butter. — II.  Plum  butter  is  a  pleasant  accompaniment  to 
cold  meats,  and  is  made  as  follows  :  Cook  together  until  soft  4  quarts 
of  plums  previously  scalded  in  soda  water,  and  4  quarts  of  crab- 
agiplcs,  with  suffident  water  to  cover  them.   ?ress  through  a  colander, 


456  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

and  allow  1  quart  of  sugar  to  3  pints  of  the  pulp.  Add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon,  a  saltspoonful  of  cloves,  and  half  a  teacupful  of  good 
cider  vinegar.  Cook  until  thick  and  rich,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
its  scorching. 

Brandied  Plums. — Make  plum  preserves  by  the  second  or  third 
rule  here  given,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  to  each  quart  can  of 
fruit.     Pack\the  fruit  in  cans  and  fill  up  with  syrup. 

Oherries. 

Cherry  Preserves. — Make  a  syrup,  using  pound  for  pound  of 
sugar.     Moisten  the  sugar  with  the  jujce  of  the  cherries.     Let  this 

syrup  come  to  a  boil ;  skim.  Put  in  the 
fruit.  Let  boil  until  tender.  Skim  out  care- 
fully, put  in  glass  or  stone  jars,  filling  about 
two-thirds  full.  Boil  down  the  syrup  and  fill 
the  jars  up  with  it. 

Cherry  Marmalade. — Seed  the  fruit,,  add 
poun^  for  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  gently,  stir- 
ring and  beating  to  make  smooth.  When 
done,  put  up  in  glasses  like  jelly. 

Brandied  Cherries. — Make  a  syrup  of  a 
J  _  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  gill  of  water  for 

_.  _^  every  2  pounds,  of  fruit.     Heat  to  boiling, 

Onerry  Stoner.  i-    •        ^  ^  t.       ■    ■       '  J^ 

stirnng  to  prevent  burnmg,  pour  over  the 

fruit  while  warm,  not  hot.  Let  them  stand  together  an  hour.  Put 
all  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  heat  slowly,  boil  5  minutes,  take  out 
with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  boil  the  syrup  20  minutes.  Add  one- 
half  pint  brandy  to  the  syrup  for  every  6  pounds  of  fruit,  and  pour 
over  the  cherries  hot  and  sejd. 

Oranges. 

Orange  Preserves- — Take  equal  weights  of  tart  oranges  and 
sugar.  Grate  the  yellow  rind  from  one-fourth  of  the  oranges ;  cut 
all  the  fruit  in  halves.  Pick  out  the  pulp  and  free  it  from  s^ds. 
'Drain  oif  as  much  juice  as  you  conveniently  can,  and  put  it  on  to 
boil  with  the  sugar.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  skim  and  simmer  for  15 
minutes,  then  put  in  the  pulp  and  the  grated  rind  and  boil  for  15 
minutes  longer.    Put  into  glass  tumblers  or  jars  and  seal  the  same  as 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  457 

fruit  jelly.  Always  put  the  preserves  into  tumblers  or  small  jars, 
thereby  doing  away  with  the  necessity  of  disturbing  a  larger  quantity 
than  is  needed. 

Orange  Marmalade. — English  people  always  have  piarmalade  of 
some  description  upon  their  breakfast  table.  Weigh  the  fruit  before 
cutting  it  and  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  fruit.  Allow  the  rind  and  juice  of  3  lemons  to  a  dpzen 
oranges.  Remove  the  peel  in  quarters  and  boil  it  in  plenty  of  water 
until  it  is  tender ;  drain  off  the  water  and  let  the  peel  cool.  Remove 
the  seeds  and  white  skin  from  the  pulp,  place  the  pulp  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  the  sugar,  and  cook  until  it  is  quite  thick.  When  the 
peel  is  cool  place  a  number  of  pieces  together  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
cut  them  into  thin  shreds.  When  all  are  cut,  add  them  to  the  cooked 
orange  and  mix  thoroughly.  Cool  a  little  of  the  mixture  in  a  saucer, 
and  when  it  is  as  thick  as  required  pour  into  jelly  glasses.  When  it 
is  Cold,  cover. 

liemon  Marmalade. — Six  lemons  sliced  very  thin,  taking  out  the 
seeds.  To  each  pound  of  sliced  fruit  add  3  pints  of  cold  water ;  let 
this  stand  24  hours.  Then  boil  it  until"  the  chips  are  tender,  pour 
into  an  earthen  bowl  and  allow  it  to  remain  until  next  day.  Then 
weigh  it,  and  to  every  pound  of  boiled  fruit  add  lyi  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar.  Boil  together  till  the  syrup  jellies  and  the  chips  are  transparent. 

Berries. 

Blackberry  Preserves. — Put  the  berries  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  al- 
lowing a  cupful  of  water  to  each  quart  of  the  fruit,  and  let  it  simmer 
till  tender.  Then  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  berries,  let  it  boil  up,  skim  carefully,  and  it  is  ready  for  the 
cans. 

Blackberry  Jam. — ^Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  berries.  Rinse  the  fruit  and  put  in  the  preserving  kettle,  stir  con- 
stantly until  part  of  the  juice  is  evaporated,  then  add  the  sugar  and 
simmer  to  a  fine  jam.  This  will  be  found  better  than  putting  the 
sugar  in  first;  the  seeds  are  not  as  hard  in  this  case.  A  pint  of  cur- 
rant juice  to  every  5  pounds  is  an  improvement  to  the  flavor.  Pour 
in  glasses  ;  dip  white  paper  in  brahdy  and  lay  on  the  jam.  Then  seal 
with  paper  like  jelly.  The  brandied  paper  is  not  absolutely  neces- 
sary.    Mark  the  jars  on  outside  as  to  what  the  contents  are. 


458  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

Brandies  Blackberries. — For  brandied  blackberries,  make  a 
syrup  of  half  a  teacup  of  blackberry  juice  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Al- 
low a  half  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Let  the  syrup 
boil  up.  Add  the  blackberries  to  the  syrup ;  let  them  cook  rapidly 
for  about  20  minutes.  Remove  them  from  the  fire,  add  one-half  cup- 
ful brandy  to  each  quart,  and  bottle  them.  Very  healthful  in  the 
summer. 

Kasplberry  Jam. — Make  precisely  like  Blackberry  Jam.  Use 
either  black  or  red  raspberries. 

Red  Baspberries  In  Currant  Jelly. — ^A  new  and  attractive  con- 
serve. Take  equal  quantities  of  red  raspberries  and  red  currants. 
Heat  the  currants  on  the  stems  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  bruising  a  few  to 
start  the  juice ;  then  squeeze  a  few  at  a  time  through  a  cloth  strainer 
till  the  juice  is  extracted.  Measure  the  juice,  and  for  every  pipt  put 
in  the  oven  2  teacupfuls'  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  10  min- 
utes, then  add  the  raspberries,  and  at  the  end  of  20  minutes,  the  sugar.- 
Let  the  mixture  boil  from  3  to  5  minutes,  then  turn  into  cups  or  bowls. 

Raspberry  Preserves. — Make  same  as  Blackberry  Preserves. 

Strawberry  Preserves. — Pound  for  pound ;  rinse  the  berries,  and 
put  with  sugar  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  slow  fire  unlil  the  sugar 
melts.  Boil  rapidly  25  minutes.  Take  but  the  fruit  with  a  skimmer, 
and  fill  cans  two-thirds  full.  Boil  the  syrup  a  few  minutes  longer; 
skim ;  fill  up  the  jars.     Seal  hot  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Strawberry  Jam. — Make  same  as  raspberry  jam,  omitting  the 
currant  juice ;  use  white  sugar.  Strawberries  are  the  first  fruit  to  be 
put  up,  and  as  they  have  the  entire  neated  term  to  go  through,  must 
be  carefully  watched. 

Whole  Crooseberry  Preserves. — For  every  quart  of  gooseberries, 
take  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  and  dissolve  it  in  the  preserving, 
kettle  with  as  much  water  as  it  will  take  to  make  a  syrup.  Let  it 
boil  for  20  minutes,  skimming  well ;  then  put  in  the  gooseberries,  and 
boil  5  minutes ;  then  set  by  till  the  next  day,  when  boil  again  until 
they  have  a  clear  look  and  the  syrup  is  thick.  Put  up  in  jelly  glasses, 
with  brandied  paper  on  top. 

Gooseberry  Jam. — Pick  the  gooseberries  just  as  they  begin  to 
turn.  Stem,  wash  and  weigh.  To  4  pounds,  of  fruit  add  half  a  tea- 
ciup  of  water ;  boil  until  soft,  and  add  4  pounds  of  sugar  and  boil 
until  clear.    If  packed  at  the  right  stage  the  jam  will  be  amber- 


PRESERVES  AN©  JAMS.  469 

colored  and  firm,  and  very  much  nicer  than  if  the  fruit  is  preserved 
when  ripe. 

Barberry  Preserves. — ^Take  ripe  barberries,  leaving  them  on  the 
stem.  Make  a  pound  for  pound  syrup,  putting  in  half  cupful  of 
water  to  each  pound  of  sugar;  let  boil  up  and  skim.  Drop  in  the 
barberries,  letting  the  syrup  cool  partially  first.  Boil  until  thoroughly 
penetrated  by  the  syrup.  Tie  up  in  glass  jars.  A  very  ornamental 
preserve.  Preserved  barberries  mixed  with  cold  water  forms  a  re- 
freshing drink,  and  is  especially  good  in  fevers. 

Barberry  Jam. — Free  the  berries  from  stems  and  allow  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar.  Put  them  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  just  water 
enough  to  cover.  Let  them  cook  slowly,  and  when  the  -juice  is 
drawn  out,  add  the  sugar  and  simmer,  stirring  often.  Turn  into 
small  jars  and  cover  with  paper.  If  the  seeds  are  objectionable,  the 
jam  should  be  strained  before  adding  the  sugar. 

Preserved  Huckleberries  (for  Pies). — Use  firm,  large,  ripe  fruit, 
picking  over  carefully.  Put  them  in  a  large  stone  jar  and  cover  them 
with  good,  30und  molasses.  Set  them  in  a  cold  place  in  the  cellar, 
seal  them  up,  and  do  not  disturb  till  cold  weather,  when  they  may 
be  opened  and  the  berries  used  from  time  to  time,  being  kept  undeir 
the  simple  earthen  cover  of  the  jar.  A  cup  of  vinegar  to  a  quart  of 
molasses  is  certainly  an  addition.  Pies  made  from  huckleberries  put 
up  in  this  way  are  a  great  deal  better  than  those  made  from  dried 
fruit  or  fruit  canned  in  a  more  elaborate  way.  Drain  from  the  mo- 
lasses before  using. 

Huckleberry  Preserves. — ^Two  gallons  of  berries  picked  from 
the  stems;  5  pounds  of  sugar;  1  pint  of  strong  vinegar.  Stew  down 
thick.    They  will  keep  without  canning. 

Elderberry  Preserves. — Make  same  as  huckleberry  preserves., 
Very  healthful. 

Cranberry  Preserves. — ^Take  pound  for  pound  of  fruit  and  sugar. 
Put  a  little  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  preserving  kettle  and  boil  until 
tender. 

Currant  Preserves'. —Make  same  as  raspberry  preserves.  Use 
pound  for  pound,  boiling  a  little  longer. 

Currant  Jam  (Bed  or  White). — Make  same  as  blackberry  jam! 
For  white  currants  use  pound  for  pound  of  pulverized  sugar.  Stir 
and  mash  frequently.    Seal  hot,  if  wished. 


460  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

Currant  and  Baisiu  Jam. — Take  3  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pound 
of  raisins,  S}4  pounds  of  currants,  1  orange  and  1  pint  of  water,  Cut 
the  raisins  in  two  and  seed  them,  then  cook  them  for  1  hour  or  niore 
in  the  pint  of  water.  Pick  over  the  currants,  and  put  them  on  to  cook 
in  the  preserving  kettle.  Add  the  orange  juice  and  cook  for  15 
minutes  after  the  fruit  begins  to  boil.  Remove  the  seeds  from  the 
orange,  and  after  chopping  the  pulp  and  peel  very  fine,  rub  through 
the  sugar.  When  the  currants  have  been  boiling  for  15  minutes,  add 
the  other  ingredients  to  them  and  cook  for  15  minutes  longer.  Put 
into  jelly  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover.  This  quantity  will  fill  12 
glasses. 

Baisin  Jam.— Wash  and  seed  1  pound  of  large  sweet  raisins ; 
put  them  on  to  cook  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water  and 
half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Cook  until  thick ;  when  cold  it  is  ready  to 
seal. 

Sweet  Potato  Preserves. — Make  syrup  as  for  peaches.  Pavboil 
the  potatoes,  first,  cutting  in  round  slices,  and  boil  in  syrup  until 
clear. 

Tutti  Frutti  Preserves. — Put  a  quart  of  brandy  in  a  two-gallon 
Jar ;  then,  as  they  come  into  market,  add  1  pint  bowl  of  strawberries 
and  the  same  of  sugar ;  then  cherries  in  the  same  way,  and  black- 
berries, peaches,  pears,  currants,  pineapples,  bananas,  oranges ;  one- 
half  pint  of  lemons  and  1  pint  of  sugar.  Remember  to  always  put  in 
the  sugar  eyery.time  you  put  in  the  fruit,  and  stir  well  from  the  bot>. 
tomofthejar.  A  double  quantity  of  peaches  maybe  added,  if.  de- 
sired. Keep  in  a  cool  place,  well  covered.  Do  not  mash  berries  or 
fruit.  Prepare  large  fruit  as  for  preserves,  quartering,  peeling.  Add, 
if  possible,  1  bowl  of  black  cherries  to  improve  the  color.  Ready  in 
a  week  after  last  fruit  is  put  in. 

,  Cucumber  Preserves. — Gather  young  cucumbers  a  little  longer 
than  your  middle  finger,  and  lay  in  strong  brine  1  week.  Wash 
them,  and  soak  them  1  day  and  night  in  fair  water,  dianging  this  4 
times.  Line  a  bell-metal  kettle  with  vine  leaves,  lay  in  the  cucum- 
bers, with  a  little  alum  scattered  among  them;  fill  up  with  clear 
water,  cover  with  vine  leaves,  then  with  a  close  lid,  and  green,  as  for 
pickles.  Do  not  let  them  boil.  When  well  greened,  drop  in  ice 
water.  When  perfectly  cold,  wip6,  and  with  a  small  knife  slit  down 
one  side ;  dig  out  the  seeds ;  stuff  with  a  mixture  of  chopped  raisins 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  461 

and  citron ;  sew  up  the  incision  with  fine  thread.  Weigh  them,  and 
make  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every  one  of  cucumbers, 
with  a  pint  of  water.  Heat  to  a  lively  boil,  skim,  and  drop  in  the 
fruit.  Simmer  half  an  hour,  take  out,  spread  upon  a  dish  in  the  sun, 
while  you  boil  down  the  syrup,  with  a  few  slices  of  ginger  root  added. 
When  thick,  put  in  the  cucumbers  again,  simmer  5  minutes,  and  put 
in  glass  jarsj  tying  them  up  when  cold.  An  odd,  and  also  a  singu- 
larly delicious  sweetmeat.  '  .", 

Fig  Preserves. — Take  the  weight  in  sugar  of  the  quantity  of  figs 
to  be  preserved ;  the  figs  must  be  ripe.  Cover  the  figs  with  cold 
water  for  12  hours;  then  simmer  in  water  enough  to  cover  them 
until  tender,  and  spread  out  upon  a  sieve  to  cool  and  harden.  Make 
a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  a  cup  of  cold  water  being  allowed  for  every 
pound.  Boil  until  clear  of  scum,  put  in  the  figs,  and  simmer  for  10 
minutes.  Take  them  out  and  spread  upon  the  dishes  in  the  sun. 
Add  the  lemons  and  the  ginger ;  boil  the  syrup  thick,  give  the  figs 
another  boil  of  15  minutes,  and  fill  the  jars  three-quarters  of  the  way 
up  to  the  top.  Then  fill  up  with  boiling  syrup,  cover,  and  when  cold, 
seal  up. 

Prune  Preserves. — Pour  boiling  water  on  the  prunes,  and  set 
where  they  will  keep  warm.  When  swelled  to  the  original  size,  put 
to  each  pound  of  the  prunei  one-half  pound  of  brown  sugar,  and  1 
stick  of  cinnamon.  If  there  is  not  enough  water  reniaining  to  cover 
the  prunes,  add  more,  and  stew  in  this  syrup  one-fourth  of  an  hour. 
Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  to  every  3  pounds  of  prunes. 
Do  this  just  before  removing  from  the  fire.     Pit  the  prunes. 

Preserved  Walnuts  and  Prunes. — Shell  24  walnuts,  divide  them 
into  halves.  Take  1  pound  of  prunes,  soak  over  night,  and  remove 
the  stones.  Save  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  soaked,  to  which 
add  1  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  for  a  moment  and  skim..  Then  add  the 
walnuts  and  prunes.  Cover,  and  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove 
for  at  least  30  minutes,  until  the  syrup  is  thick  and  dark,  the  prunes 
tender,  and  the  walnuts  soft.     Serve  cold,  as  other  preserves. 

Apricot  Preserves.^Pare  the  apricots,  which  should  be  ripe,  as 
thinly  as  possible,  break  them  in  half,  and  remove  the  stones ;  weigh- 
the  fruit,  and  to  every  pound  allow  the  same  of  sugar;  strew  it  oyer 
the  apricots,  which  should  be  placed  on  dishes  and  allowed  to  remain 
for  12  hours  ;  break  the  stones,  blanch  the  kernels,  and  put  them  with 


462  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

the  fruit  and  sugar  in  a  preserving  pan ;  let  simmer  very  gently  for 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  take  out  the  pieces  of  apricot,  boil 
this  syrup  a  little  longer,  and  as  fast  as  the  scum  arises  remove  it; 
put  the  apricots  into  jars,  poui  over  them  the  syrup  and  kernels,  and 
cover  in  the  usual  way. 

Pumpkin  Preserves. — Divide,  peel,  and  rernove  the  seeds ;  cufr 
in  small,  square  pieces.  For  each  pound  of  the  pumpkin  to  be  pre- 
served, take  1  pound  of  pulverized  or  granulated  sugar.  Put  the 
pumpkin  in  a  deep  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar  sprinkled 
thickly  over  the  top.  Pour  in  lemon  juice,  one-half  cupful  to  1  pound 
of  pumpkin.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Then  boil  the  whole  together, 
with  one-half  pint  of  water  to  every  3  pounds  of  pumpkin,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  tied  in  a  cloth,  and  the  peel  of  the  lemons  Shred- 
ded. When  the  pumpkin  is  tender,  put  in  jars.  In  a  few  days  pour 
off  the  syrup,  boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  pumpkin  hot.  Very  nice. . 
Vinegar  may  be  substituted  for  the  lemon  juice,  in  whixrh  case  a  lemon 
may  be  sliced  in  the  preserves  when  cold. 

Preserved  Squash. — First  peel  the  squash  and  cut  it  in  pieces 
an  inch  thick  and  4  inches  long.  Put  it  over  the  fire  with  cold  water 
till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Then  turn  oft 
tlie  water  and  put  a  piece  of  cinnamon  and  a  clove  in  each  piece, 
and  then  put  the  squash  in  Stone  jars.  Then  boil  a  quart  of  vinegar, 
a  pint  of  water  and  2  pounds  of  sugar  together  and  put  this  brine> 
boiling,  over  the  squash.  Then  turn  off  the  brine  three  days  in  suc- 
cession and  boil  it  over  again  and  put  it  boiling  over  the  squash,  same 
as  the  first  time.    Then  when  cold  put  it  in  glass  jars. 

Persimmon  Preserves. — Select  firm,  ripe  persimmons,  and  take 
the  equivalent  of  their  weight  in  sugar.  Let  the  persimrnons  lie  in 
cold  water  for  12  hours.  Put  them  on  the  fire  in  enough  water  to 
cover  them  and  stew  gently  until  tender.  Remove,  drain  and  spread 
them  out  to  become  cool  and  firm.  Make  a  syrup  by  adding  a  cup. 
ful  of  cold  water  to  every  pound  of  sugar  and  boiling  until  clear, 
skimming  constantly.  When  clear,  put  in  the  persimmons  and  cook 
10  minutes.  Take  them  out,  spread  again  upon  dishes  and  set  these 
in  the  sun.  Add  the  juice  and  peel  of  a  couple  of  lemons  to  the  syrup, 
boil  it  thick,  return  the  persimmons  to  it,  cook  20  minutes  more, 
poHr  into  glass  jars.    Seal  when  cold. 


PRESERVES  AND  JAMS.  463 

Fruits  Dried  in  Sugar. 

Figged  Peaches. — Pare,  halve  and  seed  them ;  then  boil,  until 
tender,  in  water  just  sufficient  to  cover  them,  as  many  of  the  halves 
as  will  lie  comfortably  on  the  bottom  of  a  preserving  kettle^ — they 
must  not  crowd  nor  boil  too  long  nor  hard,  for  fear  of  tea:ring  apart 
or  becoming  over  soft.  Sprinkle  them  with  plenty  of  sugar  while 
boiling.  When  tender  put  the  peaches  on  platters  and  set  them  out 
in  the  sun  to  remain  until  they  are  thoroughly  dried  and  figged,  then 
pack  away  in  jars  or  boxes,  with  sugar  sprinkled  between  each  layer. 

Peach  Leather. — ^To  each  pound  of  ripe  peaches  allow  one-fourth 
pound  of  granulated  sugar,  wipe,  but  do  not  pare  the  peaches,  remove 
the  stones,  add  the  sugar  and  cook  slowly,  stirring  and  mashing  all 
the  while  until  dry  enough  to  spread  in  thin  sheets  on  oiled  paper  on 
boards,  or  well-greased  brown  paper.  Have  the  sheet  not  over  one- 
sixteenth  of  an  inch  thick.  Stand  in  the  sun  to  dry,  and  when  dry 
lift  like  a  sheet  of  leather,  put  it  on  a  baking-board  and  with  a' rolling- 
pin  roll  lightly  until  it  is  perfectly  even.  Now  roll  it  up  as  you  would 
a  roll  of  noodles.  Wrap  it  in  wax  paper,  put  away  in  a  ^in  box,  and 
when  ready  to  use  cut  thin  slices  from  the  end,  allowing  it  to  remain 
in  the  roll.     A  nice  addition  to  after-dinner  sweets. 

Dried  Peaches. — Halve  the  fruit,  remove  the  stones,  fill  the  cavi- 
ties with  white  sugar  and  dry  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  fruit,  if  first- 
class  peaches  are  used,  will  be  found  delicious,  alniiost  equal  when 
stewed  to  preserves,  and  far  more  healthful  and  economical. 

Dried  Plums. — Plums  may  be  dried  with  the  stones  in,  to  retain 
the  full  plum  flavor,  or  the  pits  may  be  removed  and  the  cavities  filled 
with  sugar.  Put  them  on  plates  in  the  sun,  sprinkling  with  sugar  and 
turning  often.    _The  finish  may  be  made  in  a  cool  oven. 

Dried  Peaches,  Pluma  and  Apples.— Pit,  peel  and  cut  to  suit; 
dry  partly  and  then  pack  them  in  jars,  spreading  sugar  thickly  be- 
tween the  layers.  Tie  down  and  they  will  keep  well  and  be  delicious 
for  pies  or  sauce.     They  may  also  be  dried  without  sugar. 

Tomato  Figs.— Allow  half  a  pound  of  coffee^sugar  to  every  pound 
of  tomatoes.  The  yellow  plum  tomatoes,  or  the  very  small  and  per- 
fectly smooth  red  ones,  are  preferred  for  this  method  of  preserving. 
Put  the  sugar  on  the  stove  with  just  water  enough  to  melt  it.  As 
soon  as  it  boils,  put  the  tomatoes  in  whole  with  the  skins  on.    Draw 


464  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

the  kettle  back  where  they  will  simmer  gently.  Cook  until  trans- 
parent, about  2  hours.  Skim  them  out  carefully,  and  drain  off  all  the 
syrup.  Spread  them  on  platters  to  dry,  in  the  sun,  if  possible.  Sprinkle 
a  little  sugar  over  them  while  drying,  and  the  next  day  turn  them, 
and  sprinkle  again  with  sugar.  Do  so  for  2  or  3  days.  When  suffi- 
ciently dry,  pack  in  boxes.  Seven  pounds  of  tomatoes  will  maike  2 
quarts  of  figs.  - 

Home-iuade  Citron. — Take  watermelon  rind,  trim  o|£,  the  green 
outside,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  stew  with  an  equal  quantity  of  .sugar, 
cooking  until  the  syrup  thickens.  Then  dry  on  plates  in  the  sun  or 
moderate  oven.  Keep  in  close  jar.  Bottle  the  syrup,  and  use  for 
flavoring.    Use  in  fruit  cake  same  as  citron. 

Dried  Crooseberries. — ^To  7  pounds  of  red  gooseberries  add  1)4 
pounds  of  sugar.  Let  them  stand  over  night,  or  24  hours,  mixed  with 
the  sugar.    Then  scald  until  they  break. 

Dried  Currants,  Blackberries,  Baspberries  and  Cherries. — Dry 
in  the  same  manner  as  gooseberries.  Use  more  sugar' if  desired. 
Cherries  can  be  dried  without  sugar. 

Dried  Pumpkin. — Prepare  a  large  kettleful  as  for  stewing.  Let 
boil  briskly  until  all  th^  water  has  evaporated,  then  let  boil  slowly, 
stirring  often  until  very  dry  and  beginning  to  brown  slightly.  Put 
on  plates  in  a  moderate  oven  to  dry.  Hang  up  in  a  close-tied  paper 
bag.  When  wanted  for  use  take  a  piece  the  size  of  an  egg  and  put  it 
in  a  quart  of  warm  milk  over  night. 

Pineapple  Chips.^Select  large,  perfectly  sound  pines ;  pare  them 
and  cut  into  very  thin  slices.  Weigh  and  allow  1  pound  of  sugar  to 
fech  pound  of  pineapple.  Put  these  slices  on  platters  and  strew  over 
the  sugar.  Stand  them  in  a  warm  place  (like  a  drying  closet)  for  a 
week.  Turn  the  fruit  every  day  until  dry.  .  Now  put  them  in  a  hot 
oven  for  10  minutes.  When  cool  put  them  away  in  tin  boxes^with 
waxed  paper  between.    This  will  keep  all  winter. 

Orang'e  Clii^s.^ — Cut  the  oranges  in  quarters  and  carefully  squeeze 
all  juice  through  a  sieve.  Soak  the  peel  in  water,  and  the  next  day 
boil  until  tender.  Drain  and  slice  the  peel,  put  it  into  the  juice,  weigh 
as  much  sugar  and  put  all  together  into  a  broad  earthen  dish.  •  Place 
over  the  fire  at  a  moderate  distance,  often  stirring  till  the  chips  candy 
and  then  put  them  in  a  cold  room  to  dry.  They  will  be  sufficiently 
dry  in  three  weeks.  , 


^^ 


Jellies  may  be  covered  with  waxed 
paper,  brandied  paper  or  more  readily  and 
'  eflficiently  by  pouring  over  the  top  of  the  jelly,  when 
quite  cold,  enough  melted  paraffin  to  exclude  the  air. 
This  hardens  at  once,  may  be  readily  removed  when  the 
jelly  is  to  be  used  and  is  capable  of  being  re-used  for  an 
indefinite  number  of  times.  Any  cheap  paper  may  then  be 
put  over  the  top  of  the  tumbler  or  jar  to  protect  from  dust.  The 
paraffin  is  a  clear  white  wax,  odorless  and  tasteless,  perfectly  pure  and 
harmless  in  every  way.  Egg  paper,  or  white  paper  dipped  in  the 
whites  of  &%g,  is  very  good.  Use  one  or  more  of  these.  It  not  only 
excludes  the  air,  but  at  the  same  time  it  cements  itself  to  the  glass. 
Put  a  small  rubber  band  around  the  paper  to  hold  in  place  until  dry. 
Keep  all  preserves,  jellies  and  canned  fruits  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 
The  fruits  most  commonly  used  for  jelly  are  strawberries,  cur- 
rants, apples,  peaches,  crabapples,  quinces  and  raspberries.  Of  these, 
crabapple  and  quince  jelly  most  easily  ;  strawberries  and  raspberries 
are  the  hardest  to  manage.  If  you  find  jellies  are  becoming  candied, 
put  a  layer  of  pulverized  sugar  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  on  the  top, 
under  the  paper,  and  it  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  years.  Jelly 
may  be  prevented  from  moulding  by  the  same  process.  Any  fruit  jelly 
may  be  easily  removed  from  the  mould  by  setting  it  in  water  as  hot 
as  your  hand  will  bear  fpr  a  few  minutes.  The  jelly  looks  much  bet- 
ter when  turned  out  in  this  way.  "^ 

A  rose  geranium  leaf  dropped  in  the  jelly  glass  before  pouring  in 
hot  apple  jelly,  will  lend  a  delicious  and  unusual  flavor  to  what,  is  a 
rather  tasteless  compound.  The  leaf  will  soon  float  to  the  top,  bpt 
let  it  remain  till  the  jelly  is  wajited  for  use.  Still  another  flavor  may 
be  obtained  by  using  lemon  verbena  leaves  in  the  same  way. 

Serviceable  jelly  glasses  may  be  made  of  bottles.  Take  a  good 
strong  string  (one-third  of  a  clothes  line  after  it  is  untwisted  will  do), 
dip  in  kerosene,  and  tie  around  the  bottle  where  you  want  it  to  break. 
Light,  and  as  it  burns  the  glass  will  break. 

COOK— 30  465 


4«0 


JELLIES. 


For  good  jelly,  the  fruit  must  be  quite  fresn,  not  over-ripe  or 
under-ripe,  first  because  it  will  not  easily  jelly  under  those  circum- 
stances, and  is,  if  under-ripe,  too  acid  to  give  a  pleasant  taste. 
Neither  should  the  fruit  be  gathered  immediately  after  a  rain.  Jelly 
should  never  stop  boiling  until  done.  Strawberry  jelly  may  be  made 
in  small  quantities  when  there  is  too  much  juice  left  from  canning 
them. 

Jelly,  if  wanted  very  clear,  may  be  strained  before  putting  in 
glasses.  ^  Use  a  flannel  bag,  make  it  pointed  in  shape^     Let  drip 

slowly  through,  and  do  not  squeeze  or 
stir.  Hang  the  bag  near  the  stove,  as 
this  will  prevent  the  jelly  thickening. 

Another  way  to  seal  up  jellies  or 
jams  is  by  using  a  paste  made  by  stir- 
ring 1  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  2  of  colrf 
water ;  when  mixed  perfectly  smooth 
and  free  from  lumps,  add  more  cold 
water  until  it  is  so  thin  that  it  runs 
freely.  Cut  thin  brown  paper  round 
and  an  inch  larger  than  the  top  of  the 
glass  or  jar;  dip  it  in  the  paste  until 
JeUy  Moulds.  y^^^  thoroughly,  then  put  over  the  glass 

or  jar,  pressing  it  down  tightly ;  when  dry  it  will  be  entirely  air-tight 
and  the  fruit  will  keep  perfectly.'  A  rubber,  ring  will  hold  it  in  place 
while  drying. 

Before  fruit  is  set  away  it  should  be  labeled.  The  name  written 
in  ink  on  white  paper  and  pasted  on  the  side  of  the  glass,  jar  or  can 
is  most  convenient.  Five  drops  of  glycerine  added  tbjeach  ounce  of 
flour  paste  used  for  putting  the  labels  on  glass  or  tin  will  make  them 
adhere  and  eflectually  prevent  them  from  curling  up  and  coming  off 
!  General  Rule  for  Jellies.- — ^The  requisites  for  jelly-making  are  a 
good  quality  stone  jar,  capable  of  containing,  say  2  gallons  of  fruit ; 
a  large  pan,  in  which  the  jar  can  stand  upion  the  range ;  an  earthen 
dish  of  large  size,  into  which  the  fruit  juice  may  drip ;  two  long- 
handled  wooden  spoons,  a  coarse  cloth  jelly  bag,  which  is  best  made 
of  loosely  woven  white  flannel  of  good  quality ;  several  shallow  tins, 
in  which  to  heat  the  sugar  in  the  oveh;  and  a  full  assortment  of  jelly 
glasses. 


JELLIES.  46% 

First  (these  are  the  rules  for  making  currant  jelly)  currants  should 
be  washed  and  stemmed.  Put  the  fruit  in  the  stone  jar,  crush  it  with 
a  potato-masher,  set  the  jar,  covered,  in  the  large  pan  of  water.  Have 
a  very  hot  fire  in  the  range.  Let  the  water  boil  until  the  friiit  is  re- 
duced to  a  pulp.  Put  the  fruit  by  cupfuls  in  the  jelly  bag  (or  a 
coarse  towel  will  answer).  Close  the  bag  and  press  out  the  juice  into 
the  earthen  dish  with  the  wooden  spoon. 

Another  excellent  way  of  getting  the  juice  out  of  the  bag  is  to 
suspend  the  latter  from  a  hook  in  some  convenient  shelf,  and  then  to 
squeeze  the  bag  between  two  spoons.  When  two  or  three  portions  of 
pulp  have  been  handled,  the  bag  should  be  turned  inside  out  and  the 
J'liceless  pulp  thrown  away,  as  otherwise  the  bag  will  get  clogged  and 
the  juice  will  cease  to  flow  freely.  Measure  the  juice  and  put  in  a 
stone  jar,  or  a  preserving  kettle.  To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound 
of  sugar,  and  while  the  juice  is  boiling  measure  out  the  sugar  into 
several  different  portions,  putting  it  into  the  shallow  tins  and  placing 
these  tins  within  the  oven  to  heat.  Stir  the  sugar  occasionally  to 
prevent  scorching,  and  line  the  tins  with  light-brown  paper.  The 
juice  should  be  boiled  20  minutes — 20  minutes  from  the  time  it  com- 
mences to  boil.  Skim  thoroughly  and  add  the  heated  sugar  by  cup- 
fuls, stirring  constantly.  Then  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  remove  from 
the  range.  Fill  the  jelly  glasses  full  and  allow  the  jelly  to  cool  be- 
fore sealing.  If  the  jelly  does  not  set  at  once,  stand  the  glasses  in  a 
sunny  window.  . 

'=  Blackberry,  strawberry,  raspberry,  cherry,  grape  and  cranberry 
jellies  are  made  in  exactly  the  same  way — a  pint  of  juice  to  a  pound 
of  sugar,  and  the  fruits  boiled  to  a  pulp  and  strained  through  a  bag. 
Blackberry,  grape  and  cranberry  need  nothing  but  their  own  .flavors, 
but  in  the  case  of  strawberry,  raspberry  and  cherry,  some  slight  ad- 
dition is  needed.  With  the  strawberry  the  juice  of  1  lemon  should 
be  added  for  each  pint  of  the  strawberry  juice.  This  lemon  juice 
should  be  put  in  just  after  straining  and  before  .the  strawberry  juice 
is  boiled.  For  cherry  jelly  the  same  quantity  of  lemon  is  necessary. 
For  raspberry,  add  one-third  the  quantity  of  currant  juice,  prepared 
in  precisely  the  same  manner.     Sweet  apples  will  not  jelly. 

"Apple  JeUy. — For  this  use  tart,  juicy  apples,  wiping  them  with  a 
damp  cloth.  Quarter  the  fruit  and  cut  aVay  all  defective  parts,  but 
a««*4»er  peel  nor  core  them.    Place  the  apples  in  a  preserving  kettle 


468  jellies: 

and  almost  cover  them  with  cold  water.  Let  them  stew,  to  ^  j/ulp. 
Turn  into  a  cheese-cloth  bag  and  hang  this  over  an  earthehware  bowl 
for  several  hours — ^all  night,  if  convenient.  Measure  the  juice,  return 
it  to  the  preserving  kettle-  and  heat  it ;  skim.  Boil  the  juice  5  min- 
utes, and  then  to  every  pint  of  liquid  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  that  has  bepn  heated  in  the  oven.  When  the  sugar  is  melted 
try  the  jelly  by  dropping  a  little  on  a  c^old  dish.  If  it  congeals  it  is 
ready  to  mould  ;  if  not,  bpil  and  try  again  until  it  is  of  proper  con- 
sistency, when  it  may  be  turned  into  bowls  and  sealed.  For  dessert 
turn  it  into  a  pudding  dish  and  pour  cold  boiled  custard  or  sweetened 
whipped  cream  about  it.  The-  pulp,  stewed  with  white  sulgar,  can  be 
used  for  jam  puddings,  or  is  very  nice  put  into  a  glass  dish,  covered 
thickly  with  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  thinly-sliced  sponge  cake,  and  a 
nice  custard  poured  over  all.  The  juice  of  half  a  dozen  lemons  to 
1  peck  of  apples  gives  a  delicious  flavor  to  the  jelly.  Even  3 
lemons  to  the  same  amount  of  apples  is  a  great  improvement.  Be 
carefnl  not  to  squeeze  the  pulp,  or  the  jelly  will  not  be  as  clear  as  it 
otherwise  would  be. 

Red  Apple  Jelly. — A  beautiful  jelly  can  be  made  of  red  apples 
fay  washing  and  halving  the  apples,  but  not  paring  or  coring  them. 

Cider  Apple  Jelly. — Take  apples ;  wipe  and  slice  them ;  use 
seeds,  skins  and  all ;  cook  soft  in  cider  enough  to  cover  them ;  strain 
through  ,cloth  laid  in  sieve;  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  pint  of  juice  and 
boil  up  a  few  minutes. 

Economical  Apple  Jelly. — In  large  families,^  when  paring  apples 
for  pies  or  sauce,  wash  the  apples  beforehand,  and  then  take  the  par- 
ings and  the  perfect  cores,  put  into  a  saucepan,  fill  with  water  just  to 
cover  them  and  let  boil  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  then 
strain;  add  as  much  sugar  as  juice  and  boil  it  fast  for  20  minutes. 
Add  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  for  flavoring ;  put  in  glasses,  and 
the  result  will  be  a  nice,  inexpensive  jelly,  especially  useful  where 
there  are  children  and  lunches  to  put  up. 

Quince  JeUy. — Peel,  quarter  and  core  the  quinces,  cover  with . 
cold  water  and  cook  to  a  pulp.  Put  in  a  jelly  bag  and  let  it  drip 
through,  but  do  not  squeeze ;  measure  the  juice,  put  on  a  fire  and 
boil  20  minuteSw  Then,  adding  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint,  let 
boil  2  or  3  minutes..  First,  heat  the  sugar.  Take  up  in  glasses,  cover 
and  set  in  a  cool,  dry  place.     In  making  quince  jelly  be  sure  and  re- 


JELLIES.  469 

move  the  seeds  from  the  fruit,  or  the  jelly  will  be  ropy.  Take  the 
pulp  left  in  the  jelly  bag  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice.  Put  1  large 
cupfyl  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  the  juice.  Boil  and  skim.  Put  in 
glasses.  It  will  be  good  jelly,  but  not  clear  as  the  first.  Or  the 
pulp  may  be  made  into,  a  marmalade  by  adding  one-half  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  the,  fruit  pulp.  Boil  it  down  until  thick  and 
smooth. 

Quince  and  Apple  Jelly. — Cut  sma:Il  and  core  an  equal  amount 
of  tart  apples  and  quinces.  Boil  the  quinces  until  soft  in  water 
enough  to  cover  them.  Then  add  the  apples  and  boil  together, 
adding  more  water  if  needed,  until  all  is  a  pulp.  Put  in.  a  jelly-bag 
and  strain  without  pressing.  Boil  15  or  20  minutes,  and  to  each  pint 
of  liquid  add  1  pound  of  sugar  and  boil  5  minutes,  or  until  it  will 
"  set "  or  jelly  when  a  little  is  dropped  on  a  cold  plate. 

Ripe  Grape  Jelly. — Stem,  wash,  put  in  a  stone  jar,  stand  the  jar 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  until  the  grapes  are  soft.  Strain 
through  a  jelly-bag.  Allow  granulated  sugar  pound  for  pound,  boil 
20  or  30  minutes,  add  the  sugar,  which  should  have  been  heated, 
and  boil  5  minutes  longer.     Pour  in  glasses.     Seal  when  cold. 

Grape  and  Apple  JeUy. — Stem  the  grapes,  and  prepare  for 
straining  as  above.  At  the  same  time  quarter  and  core,  but  not 
pare,  juicy,  tart  apples.  Cook  and  press  out  the  juice,  same  as  for 
apple  jelly.  When  the  juice  has  been  expressed  from  l^both  apples 
and  grapes,  take  one-third  apple  juice  to  two-thirds  grape  juice. 
Boil  two  quarts  only  of  this  mixture  at  a  time.  Twenty  mi uutes 
from  the  time  the  juice  begins  to  boil,  add  gradually  8  teacupfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  which  was  heating  in  a  Very  hot  oven  while  the  juice 
was  boiling.  Boil  5  minutes,  then  pour  into  jelly-cups.  Seal  when 
cold.     Mild  grapes  make  a  delicious  jelly. . 

Green  Grape  JeUy.^Pick  the  grape^  from  the  stems  and  put 
them  into  a  jar  that  holds  about  2  quarts  and  a  pint  of  cold  water. 
Place  this  jar  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  and  leave  until  the 
fruit  is  thoroughly  scalded.  Mash  the  fruit  with  a  potato  masher 
while  scalding,  to  extract  the  juice  faster.  Let  strain  through  a  flannel 
jelly-bag.  ■  Measure  the  juice,  and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
pint  of  juice.  Put  the  juice  over  the  fire  to  boil  in  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle  and  the  sugar  in  fhd  oven  to  heat.  Stir  the  sugar  and  the  juice 
occasionally.    When  the  juice  has  boiled  down  20  minutes,  add  the 


470 


JELLIES. 


Melon  Mould. 


sugar,  and  after  one  moment's  boiling  the  jelly  should  be  ready  to 
put  into  bowls.  Test  it  by  cooling  a  little  on  ice,  and  if  it  has  not 
"  come,"  boil  it  a  moment  or  two  longer.  If  the  grapes  are  gathered 
at  exactly  the  right  time,  this  jelly  will  not  have  a  tinge  of  purple 
about  it ;  if  it  is  not  already  the  right  color,  it  may  be  made  the  exact 
color  of  the  Malaga  grape  by  a  few  drops  of  spinach  green  added  juSt 
before  the  jelly  is  ready  for  the  bowls  and  after  the  color  has  been 
tested.  By  putting  in  a  handful  of  ripe  fruit,  it  will  make  it  a  delicate 
pink  color.  This  green-grape  jelly  can  be  made  from  the  cultivated 
varieties,  but  the  wild  grape  is  best  of  all,  especially  the  wild  fox  grape. 
Siberian  Crabapple  Jelly. — Remove  the  stems  and  blossom- 
ends.  Cut  out  any  defects,  and  put  over  to 
boil,  with  just  enough  water  to  cover.  Stew 
slowly  until  almost  a  pulp.  Strain  and 
squeeze  very  lightly.  The  best  way  is  t(^ 
put  in  a  jelly  bag  and  let  drip  over  an 
earthen  dish  afl  night.  In  the  morning  boil 
the  juice  20  minutes,  skim,  measure,  and  , 
then  add  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  the 
juice.  Let  boil  3  or  5  minutes,  and  put  in  glasses.  Heat  the  sugar 
before  using.  This  is  a  jelly  that  never  fails.  It  is  excellent  for  cake 
and  to  serve  with  desserts^  but  it  is  not  as  suitable  to  serve  with 
meats  as  are  red  and  black  currant,  damson  and  barberry  jellies. 

Spiced   Crabaijple    Jelly. — To  5  pounds  of  apples    1    pint  of 
water,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  all  kinds  of  spices;  whole 

^.^ ,_^^       cloves  and  stick  cinnamon  are  better-  than 

ftm^  —iwgea^IfZ^      ground;  stew  5.  or  6  hours,  then  let  it 
Kr-i^=suB£iBi^M»       stand  pver  night;   then  strain  and  add 

rf  ^B       as  much  sugar  as  juice.    Boil  30  minutes. 

^  ^^      '^^  *  Currant  Jelly. — See   "  General  Rule 

for  Jellies."  For  straining  the,fruit  in  the 
jelly-bag,  the  simplest  and  easiest  way  is 
to  reverse  a  common  four-legged  stool, 
take  a  good-sized  square  piece  of  flannel,^ 
secure  firrrily  the  four  corners  to  the  four 
legs,  allowing  considerable  dip  in  the 
centre,  and  stand  a  clean  earthenware  bowl*below  this  -bag,  on  the 
inverted  seat.     Put  well-mashed  fruit  into  this,  and  leave  it  out  of 


Jelly  Mould. 


JELLIES.  471^ 

harm's  way  for  the  juice  to  drain  through.  Do  not  attempt  to  squeeze 
it,  or  you  will  cloud  your  jelly ;  keep  your  "  squeezings  "  for  a  jelly 
of  second  quality.  Some  cooks  simply  pick  over  the  currants  care- 
fully, not  even  stemming  them  (wash  if  gritty),  mash  with  a  potato 
masher,  and  then  strain  all  night  in  a  flannel  bag. 

Uncooked  Currant  Jelly. — Prepare  the  fruit  as  above,  mashing 
and  straining  the  fruit  raw.  Put  the  juice  in  a  stone  jar,  add  granu- 
lated sugar  in  the  proportion  of  pouhd  for  pound,  with  the  juice, 
stirring  constantly  until  the  sugar  is  completely  dissolved.  Dip  out 
or  strain  into  tumblers ;  let  stand  until  it  stiffens,  and  cover  with  egg- 
paper.     A  very  nice  way. 

White  Currant  Jelly. — ^Make  as  above,  straining,  not  squeezing 
the  fruit,  to  prevent  discoloration  of  the  juice.  Proceed  same  as  for 
Uncooked  Jelly.  Seal  up  with  egg-paper.  In  several  weeks  the 
jelly  will  harden  perfectly  and  be  very  clear. 

Blackberry  Jelly, — ^Use  fruit  picked  before  it  is  dead  ripe.  Part 
of  it  should  be  red.  Make  the  jelly  precisely  the  same  as  currant 
jelly,  except  that  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  is  sufficient  for  1 
pint  of  juice. 

Blackberry  Table  Jelly. — Stew  the  berries,  crush,  and  strain  out 
the  juice,  as  above.  -After  it  is  cool,  soak  1  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint 
of  juice,  sweeten  to  the  taste,  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  strain 
into  moulds.  It  is  served  with  whipped  cream,  is  very  pleasihg  in 
appearance,  and  delicious  to  the  taste,  but  is  not  especially  nutritive. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Jelly. — A  jelly  much  prized  for  its 
peculiar  delicate  flavor  can  be  made  by  taking  equal  quantities  of 
currants  and  red  raspberries  and  putting  them  through  the  strainer 
together.  Then  proceed  with  the  juice  as  though  it  were  of  pure 
currants. 

Raspberry  JeUy. — Crush  the  raspberries  without  scalding,  strain, 
and  proceed  as  for  blackberry  jelly.  Do  not  have  the  raspberries 
over  ripe. 

Cranberry  Jelly.-=-One  and  a  half  pounds  of  berries ;  1  pint  of 
water ;  cook  thoroughly ;  strain  through  a  jelly-bag.  Cook  the  juice 
15  minutes  ;  skim ;  add  as  much  sugar  as  there  is  j\jice.  Boil  agiain 
15  minutes,  and  pour  into  jelly  glasses. 

Bbubarb  or  Pie-plant  Jelly.— Cut  into  nice  lengths  7  pounds 
of  good  rhubarb, -without  peeling;  put  it  in  the  preserving  pan  with 


472  JELLIES. 

1  breakfast  cupful  of  cold  water;  allow  it  to  simmer  gently -until  all 
juice  is  extracted ;  then  give  it  a  rapid  boil,  and  run  it  through  the 
jelly-bag ;  to  each  pint. of  juice  add  1  pound  of  white  sugar.  When 
the  sugar  melts  boil  it  for  10  or- 15  minutes.  Then  try  it  by  cooling 
on  ice,  or  dropping  a  spoonful  on  a  cold  plate.  If  boiled  too  long, 
there  is  danger  of  it  becoming  syrupy.     A  delicious  jelly. 

Rhubarb  and  Apple  Jelly. — ^^Peel  and  cut  up  1  good-sized  bun- 
dle of  rhubarb;  peel,  core  and  quarter  3  pounds  of  apples,  the  thin 
rind  and  the  juice  of  half  a  dozen  lemons;  put  all  togethei"  into  the 
preserving  kettle  with  1  }^  pints  of  water.  Boil  until  reduced  to  a  pulp ; 
strain  the  juice  through  a  jelly  strainer,  weigh,  and  allow  1  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  to  every  pound  of  juice.  Boil  up  the  juice,  add  the  sugar, 
boil,  skim  well,  and  when  it  jellies  on  the  slimmer,  pour  into  glasses, 
and  when  cold  tie  or  seal  down. 

Orange  Jellyr^ — Peel  the  oranges  and  run  them  through  a  fruit- 
presS)  if  you  have  one ;  if  not;  cut  the  oranges  in  two  crosswise  and*^ 
rub  the  juice  and  pulp  through  a  sieve.  A 
lemon-:;squeezer  or  any  device  of  that  kind  will 
not  do,  as  the  pulp  must  be  taken  with  the 
juice.  If  you  have  2  quarts  of  juice,  and  pulp, 
cook  it  down  to  3  pints,  then  add  sugar  pound 
for  pint,  and  treat  as  any  other  jelly.  Of  course 
Oval  Jelly  Mo^Ud.  ^^  j^  understood  that  as  little  as  possible  of  the 
whitd  portion  of  the  orange  will  be  allowed  in  it,  as  that  makes  it 
bitter.  The  jelly  glasses  should  be  kept  dark  by  wrapping  in  paper. 
Plum  JeUy. — Take  sound  plums,  remove  the  stems  arid  make  an 
incision  in  each  one  to  cause  the  juice  to  start  quicker.  Put  th?  fruit 
in  a  stone  jar,  cover,  stand  in  kettle  of  cold  water.  Let  the  water  boil 
around  it  for  an  hour,  and  the  plums  should  have  by  that  time  the 
juice  drawn  out  thoroughly.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Let  drip 
several  hours^  or  press  lightly  in  a  fruit-press,  or  with  wooden  spoons. 
If  you  wish  the  jelly  very  clear  do  not  press  very  much.  Measure 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pint  of  juice.  Put  the 
sugar  to  heat  in  the  oven,  boil  the  juice  over  the  fire.  When  the  juice 
has  boiled  25  minutes  add  the  sugar.  Test  the  jelly  as  soon  as  it 
boils  again,  and  as  soon  as  it  forms  a  jelly,  pour  it  into  glasses.  Some 
cooks  crack  a  few  of  the  pits  and  stew  with  the  plums ;  this  gives  a 
pleasant  flavor.     If  the  plums  are  not  squeezed  in  straining  the  juice, 


JELLIES.  473 

the  pulp  may  be  made  into  a  nice  marmalade  by  adding  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  the  pulp,  and  cooking  until  it 
thickens. 

Wild  Plum  Jelly. — Wash  the  fruit  and  boil  in  water  enough  to 
cover  until  the  plums  are  a  pulp.  Strain,  weigh  the  jujce,  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  juice,  and  make  same  as 
above  rule.  Do  not  squeeze  the  pulp — simply  strain  off  the  juice  and 
make  marmalade  of  the  remainder. 

Tomato  Jelly. — Peel  the  tomatoes  and  squeeze  through  a  cloth, 
or  stew  and  strain ;  weigh  the  j  uice  and  add  pound  for  pound  of  white 
sugar.  Boil  to  a  jelly  and  seal  up.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Flavor 
with  lemon-juice  if  wished.  This  is  an  excellent  article.  Serve  with 
roast  meat. 

Savory  Tomato  JeUy. — To  a  can  of  tomatoes  add  a  sprig  of  pars- 
ley, bay  leaf,  4  cloves  stuck  in  an  onion,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  boil  till 
soft.  Remove  spices,  add  1  ounce  of  gelatine  already  softened,  and  a 
dash  of  lemon-juice.  Strain,  rubbing  as  much  pulp  through  as  pos- 
sible, put  in  mould.  Serve  it,  when  set,  with  celery  mayonnaise, 
cold-slaw,  lettuce  salad,  or  anything  that  sliced  tomatoes  would  be 
offered  with.  •  y 

'  Pear  Jelly. — Pear  jelly  is  made  exactly  like  quince,  but  requires 
a  little  longer  boiling  after  the  sugar  is  added. 

Peach  Jelly. — Crack  one-third  of  the  kernels  and  put  them  in  the 
jar  with  the  peaches,  which  should  be  pared,  stoned  and  sliced.  Heat 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  stirring  from  time  tb  time  until  the  fruit  is 
well  broken.  Strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  peach  juice  add  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Measure  again,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of 
liquid.  Heat  the  sugar  very  hot  and  add  when  the  juice  has  boiled  20 
minutes ;  skim.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  take  instantly  from  the  fire, 
Delicious  for  jelly  cake. 

Strawberry  Jelly. — Select  berries  that  are  rather  under  than 
over  ripe.  Put  the  berries  into  a  stone  jar,  stand  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water,  cover  the  top  of  the  jar,  and  boil  slowly  for  1  hour,  or  until 
the  berries  are  quite  soft,  but  not  broken  to  any  extent.  Run  through 
a  jelly  bag  without  pressing.  If  the-juice  is  not  perfectly  clear,  strain 
again  through  muslin.  Measure,  and  to  each  pint  of  the  juice  allow 
1  pint  of  granulated  sugar.  Turn  the  juice  into  a  porcelain-Jine'd . 
kettle  over  a  brisk  fire.     Put  the  sugar  in  earthen  dishes,  and  stand 


474  JELLIES. 

them  in  the  even  to  heat.  Boil  gently  15  minutes,  skim,  then  add 
the  hot  sugar  and  boil  10  minutes.  Pour  in  glasses  and  seal  when 
cold.  Make  a  marmalade  of  the  fruit  pulp  by  adding  one-half  pound 
of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  the  pulp,  and  boiling  until  it  thickens. 

Green  Gooseberry  Jelly. — Put  the  berries,  after  removing  their 
tops  and  tails,  and  wiping  them  well,^in  a  pan  and  cover  with  water; 
place  a  plate  upoh  them  to  keep  them  down,  and  cook  till  soft ;  then 
strain  them  through  muslin  or  a  vfery  fine  hair  sieve,  leaving  them  to/ 
drain  for  several  hours.  To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  preserving  sugar,  and  boil  together,  skimming  occa- 
sionally, till  the  jelly  appears  firm  if  a  little  be  put  on  a  plate ;  then 
pour  into  pots  and  tie  down.  They  are  better  when  part  of  them 
lias  just  begun  to  redden. 

Combination  Jelly. — ^Take  raspberries,  strawberries,  currants, 
and  cherries.  All  should  be  fully  ripe ;  stdne  the  cherries.i  Throw 
all  together  in  a  jar,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water;  let  this  boil 
until  the  fruit  is  scalded.  Strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  pressing  as 
little  as  possible,  and  proceed  as.  for  currant  jelly.  Cool  a  little  bit, 
stirring ;  if  it  congeals  readily,  pour  in  glasses.  Tie  down  with  egg 
paper.  The  flavor  of  this  jelly  is  much  finer  than  that  made  of  other 
fruit  alone. 

Huckleberry  Jelly.— Put  the  berries  in  an  earthen  jar,  cover;  and 
stand  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Let  boil'until  the  juice  is  extracted 
from  J:he  fruit.  Strain,  measure,  turn  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  boil 
5  minutes.  Add  an  equal  measure  of  granulated'  sugar.  Boil  10 
minutes,  -  Try  a  spoonful  on  a  cold  plate,  and  if  it  hardens,  remove 
at  once.  If  not,  let  it  boil  longer.  Turn  into  glasses  and  seal.'  One 
teaspoonful  of  strong  vinegar  to  each  pint  of  the  juice  improves!  the , 
flavor.  « 

Cherry  Jelly. — Pit  the  cherries,  put  in  a  stone  crock,  and  set  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  scald.  Strain,  and  proceed  as  for  currant 
jelly. 

Fancy  Jellies. 

These  jellies,  of  which  therfe  are  many  kinds,  form  delicious  des- 
serts to  follow  heavy  dinners  and  should  be  served  with  crisp  wafers, 
fancy  cakes,  etc.  In  summer,  especially,  will  their  delicate  flavors  be 
appreciated.  The  foundation  of  all  will  be  found  in- gelatine  or  isin- 
glass.   The  gelatine  should  always  be  dissolved  in  cold  water.    If 


JELLIES.  475 

gelatine  is  melted  first  in  hot  water — as  it  may  be  very  quickly — it  is 
likely  to  lack  delic^y  of  flavor  and  to  assume  a  muddy  appearance 
that  cannot  bfc  overcome.  Some  gelatines  soften  in  15  or  20  minutes 
in  cold  water,  but  there  are  many  varieties  which  require  2  hours,  and 
this  time  is  given  as  being  a  safe  rule  for  making  all  kinds-of  jellies. 
If  this  length  of  time  is  allowed  for  the  softening  process,  the  gela- 
tine need  not  be  clarified  with  white  of  egg  or  otherwise ;  and  the 
housekeeper  with  forethought  of  the  needs  of  her  table  will  keep  this 
portion  of  the  work  in  mind  and  put  the  gelatine  in  water  early  in 
the  morning  or  even  the  night- before,  provided  she  has  a  cool  place 
in  which  to  keep  it.  The  lower  part  of  the  refrigerator  is  as  good  as 
any  for  the  purpose. 

It  is  'well  also  to  remember  that  for  each  quart  of  jelly,  where 
there  is  neither  milk  nor  eggs  used  in  its  composition,  one-half  box 
of  gelatine  will  be  required.  Jellies  are  nicer  strained.  A  flannel 
shaped  to  a  point  is  best  for  this  purpose. 

Orange  Jelly. — ^The  juice  of  4  oranges„the  grated  rind  of  1,  juice 
and  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  ^^  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Put  one-half  box  of  gela- 
tine into  cold  water,  let  it  stand  2  hours,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  the  other  ingredients,  pour  into  moulds  and  set  on  ice  to  cool. 

Lemon  JeUy. — One  package  of  Cox's  gelatine  soaked  in  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  it ;  juice  of  3  lemons  and  2  cupfuls  of  white  sugar. 
Pour  over  this  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  stir  until  dissolved  and  strain 
into  jelly  moulds,  wetting  these  before  using.  Dip  a  cloth  in  hot 
water  and  wrap  around  the  mould  and  the  jelly  will  turn  out  easily. 
(See  Creams  and  Charlottes^ 

Fancy  Jellies  with  WMpped  Cream. — There  are  several  ways  of 
serving  these.  Use  1  large  mould  with  a  tube  in  the  centre ;  a  new 
cake  tin  will  answer.  Turn  it  out  when  firm  on  a  fancy  plate.  Whip 
to  a  froth  one-half  pint  of  cream,  sweeten  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar.  Fill  the  hollow  left  by  the  tube  with  this,  heaping 
in  the  centre,  and  pile  the  remainder  around  the  base.  If  the  mould 
is  solid,  heap  all  the  cream  around  the  base.  Use  ornamental  sauCe 
dishes/and  serve  some  of  the  cream  with  each  helping  of  jelly.  Or 
mould  in  wine-glasses,  pointed  in  shape.  Turn  out  on  an  ornamental 
plate,  arrange  prettily,  and  heap  whipped  cream  around  and  between. 
Serve  a  pyramid  to  each  person  in  a  sauce  dish,  with  a  portion  of 
cream. 


476  JELLIES. 

Variously  colored  fruit  jellies,  the  more  colors  the  better,  can  be 
moulded  in  pointed  wine  glasses.  Warm  a  little  of  each  enough  to 
run,  fill  the  glasses  and  cool.  Arrange  on  a  pretty-plate,  and  heap 
whipped  cream  around  and  between  the  moulds. 

Pineapple  Jelly.^Remember  this  cannot  stand  more  than  2 
hours  unless  it  is  kept  icy  cold,  as  the  pineapple  will  digest  the  gela- 
tine. Pare  and  grate  I'large  pineapple,  add  a  half  pound  sugar,  then 
&  half  box  of  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  half  an  hour..  Put  the 
whole  over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  it  is  steaming  hot.  Now 
press  through  a  colander.  Decorate  a  cylinder  mould  with  almonds, 
fasten  them  in  place  by  dipping  them  in  a  little  melted  gelatine.  Fill 
in  the  pineapple  and  pack  in  cracked  ice  with  just  a  little  salt.  Stand 
2  hours  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  It  cannot  be  allowed  to 
stand  over  njght,  as  morning  will  find  it  dissolved  to  a  liquid. ' 

Cherry  Jelly  (Gelatiue). — Stem  'and  stone  2  pounds  of  ^weet 
dark-red  cherries ;  put  them  into  a  bowl ;  pound  the  kernels  and 
squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  4  lemons.  Mash  the  cherries  with  a 
Wooden  spoon,  add  a  small  tumbler  of  red  currant  jelly,  the  kernels 
and  lemon  juice.  Boil  together  1  pound  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  water, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  previously  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water.  Put  the  cherries  into  a  jelly  bag,  pour  the  sugar  and  igelatine 
over  them,  and  run  through  several  times  till  quite  clear.  Add  sugar 
or  lemon  juice  if  not  sweet  or  acid  enough.  Wet  the  mould,  place 
it  in  ice,  pour  in  the  jelly,  and  do  not  turn  it  out  until  the  last  mo- 
ment.    Delicious. 

Peach  Jelly  (Gelatine). — Dissolve  in  sufficient  water  1  ounce  of 
gelatine ;  strain  it ;  halve  1  dozen  large  peaches  and  pare  them ;  make 
a  syrup  of  1  pound  of  fruit  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water.  Into  this 
put  the  peaches  and  kernels  ;  boil  gently  15  minutes,  theh  place  the 
fruit  on  a  plate  and  cook  the  syrup  10  minutes  longer ;  add  to  it  the  , 
juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  gelatine.  A  pyramid  mould  is  very  pretty 
for  this.  Fill  part  full  of  jelly,  and  when  set,  put  in  one-quarter  of 
the  peaches.  Place  on  ice  and  let  it  harden  ;  add  more  jelly,  harden, 
etc.,  untirfuU.  Let  the  base  of  the  mould  be  jelly.  It  can  be  put  in 
a  mould  and  the  peaches  left  out  and  served  separately. 

Coffee  Jelly. — This  jelly  is  a  proper  accompaniment  of  cake  and 
is  as  pretty  as  it  is  palatable.  Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  2  hours. 
Then  make  a  quart  of  strong,  clear  coffee,  and  pour  it  at  once  over/ 


JELLIES.  477 

the  gelatine,  sweetening  to  taste.  Tastes  differ  so  widely  in  the  mat- 
ter of  sugar  in  coffee  that  no  rule  can  be  given.  Turn  the  jelly  into 
a  wet  mould  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  just  as  it  goes  to 
the  table  pour  around  it  sweetened  whipped  cream.  A  handsome 
dessert  may  be  arranged  thus :  Pour  the  jelly  half  an  ihch  deep  into 
square,  bright  tin  pans,  and  when  cold  cut  it  into  small  blocks'  with  a 
knife  that  has  been  dipped  in  hot  water.  Heap  the  blocks  on  a  glass 
dish  or  upon  a  folded  napkin  laid  on  a  china  plate,  and  serve  with 
sweetened  cream  from  a  pitcher  or  boat. 

Bhubarb  Jelly. — Boil  rhubarb  in  water  until  well  done.  Pass 
through  a  sieve  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  put  on  fire.  Dissolve  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  stir  it  into 
the  boiling  juice,  and  stir  till  the  jelly  looks  clear.  Pour  in  a  mould, 
and  set  away  to  become  firm.  It  can  be  served  with  or  without 
whipped  cream  or  sweetened  cream. 

Blackberry  Jelly  (Gelatine). — ^A  most  delicious  and  sweet  dish, 
and  may  be  employed  as  a.  substitute  for  pudding.  Of  course,  it 
should  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  wanted.  Strain  the  juice  from 
ripe  blackberries,  boil  it  and  skim  well,  and  dissolve  in  it  half  a  pound 
of  sugar  for  a  pint.  Stir  in  an  ounce  of  gelatine  which  has  been  well 
soaked  in  a  cupful  of  water,  and  melted  separately.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  pour  in  an  earthenware  mould  when  the  jelly  begins  to  set,  and 
not  before.  This  blackberry  jelly  will  be  excellent,  if  served  with 
cream.  If  approved,  a  strip  of  thin  lemon  rind  can  be  stewed  with 
the  fruit. 

Strawberry  Jelly  (Gelatine). — One  quart  strawberries,  1  large 
cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  two-thirds  package  gelatine  soaked  in  1 
cup  cold  water,  1  pint  boiling  water.  Mash  berries,  and  strain 
through  coarse  muslin.  Mix  sugar  and  lemon  juice  with  soaked 
gelatine,  pour  over  the  boiling  water,  stir  until  clear;  strain  through 
flannel  bag.  Have  a  mould  with  cylinder  in  centre,  dip  in  water, 
pour  in  jelly.  Set  on  ice.  When  served,  fill  centre  with  whipped 
cream. 

Wine  Jelly.-r-One  package  (2  ounces)  gelatine,  soaked  2  hours 
in  large  cup  cold  water;  2  cups  white  wine  or  sherry;  1  lemon,  all 
the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel ;  1  teaspoonful  bitter  almonds,  2 
cups  white  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water.  Put  soaked  gelatine,  l«mon. 
and  sugar  together,  with  the  fl^avoring,  and  cover  close  half  an  hour. 


478  JELLIES. 

Pour  on  boiling  water,  stir,  and  strain.  Add  wine,  and  strain  again 
through  flannel  bag,  without  squeezing,  and  leave  in  mould  until 
solid.  Wet^  mould  in  cold  water  before  pouring  in  the'3%ilg|!  Served 
with  whipped  cream  it  is  very  nice.    Pass  sliced  or  fancy  cakes  with  it. 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly.— Boil  Very  slowly  4  nicely  cleaned  calf's 
feet  in  3  quarts  of  water,  until  reduced  to  1,;  strain,  and  set  away  until 
•cold;  then  take  off  the  fat  from  the  top,  and  remove  the  jelly  into  a 
stew-pah,  avoiding  the  settlings,  and  adding  one^half  pound  of  white 
powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  the 
latter  to  make  it  transparent.  Let  boil  about  16  minutes  without 
stirring.  Pour  into  large  flannel  bag;  repeat  stirring  until  it  runs- 
clear ;  then  have  ready  large  china  basin  or  smaller  moulds.  Set 
away  to  become  firm.  This  is  very  nice  for  the  sick,  as  is  also  wine 
ielly.  ,     - 

Cider  Jelly. — ^A  good  substitute  for  wine  jelly  will  And  favor  with 
^ose  who  object  to  the  use  of  wine  in  cooking.  One  cupful  of  cold 
water,  one-half  box  of  gelatine,  1  cupful  of  boiling  water,  a  small  stick 
of  cinnamon,  1  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of!  large  lemon,  Ij^  cupfuls  of  sweet  cider.  Let  the  gelatine  soak 
half  an  hour  in  the  cold  water.  Pour  the  boiling  water  upon  the 
cinnamon,  and  let  it  stand  at  the  back  part  of  the  range  tM  slightly 
flavored.  When  the  gelatine  is  soft,  add  the  sugar  and  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  dissolved^  then  add  cider  and  lemon,  and  strain.  If  it  is 
desired  to  mould  the  jelly,  allow  the  mixture  to  cool,  then  dip  the 
mould  into  cold  water,  and  pour  the  jelly  in  before  it  begins  to  stiffen. 
It  may  be  turned  into  a  wet,  flat  dish,  to  be  cut  when  cold  into 
squares.  These  little  squares  can  be  arranged  neatly  in  a  pile,  and 
served  with  cream  and  sugar,  whipped  cream  heaped  about  them,  or 
with  the  following  sauce :  ,,/ 

Sauce. — Boil  for  10  minutes  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  3  inches  long, 
in  a  coffee-cupful  of  water ;  add  half  a  teacupful  of  sugar,  boil  3  min- 
utes longer,  stirring  continuously,  and  remove  to  a  cool  place.  Pour 
this  around  the  cider  jelly,  just  as  it  is  sent  to  the  table.  Sometimes^ 
while  the  sauce  is  at  the  boiling  point,  it  is  whipped  into  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  that  has  been  thoroughly  beaten,  and  when  cold  and  ready  to 
serve,  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  the  egg  is  added.  Serve  with  cake. 
If  the  cider  is  perfectly  sweet,  the  lemon  juice  is  an  improvement  j 
but  if  it  is  fermented,  no  more  acid  is  required. 


Porcelain-lined  kettles  are  the  safest  to 
use  for  capning  or  preserving  fruit  in  any  fash- 
ion.    New,  unworn  granite  iron  is  also  safe  to 
use.     Tin  should  never  be  employed,  as  it  is  very 
apt  to  turn  the  fruit  dark  colored.     Old-fashioned 
people,  who  still  cling  to  brass  kettles,  understand 
that  they  must  be  very  carefully  cleaned.    Scour  with  sand 
before  using,  scald  with  salt  and  vinegar,  rinse,  and  wipe 
thoroughly.    After  using,  wash  at  once.     It  is  dangerous 
to  allow  the  fruit  to  stand  in  a  brass  kettle  to  cool. 

Keep  canned  fruit,  preserves  and  jellies  in  a  dark'  closet.  If  a 
dark  closet  is  impossible,  wrap  each  glass  with  brown  paper.  Canned 
fruit  should  be  kept  moderately  cool  and  at  the  same  temperature  all 
the  time.  Drop  a  silver  spoon  (tablespoon)  in  a  glass  can,  and  hot 
fruit  can  be  poured  in  without  danger  of  breakage,  because  the  metal 
readily  absorbs  a  large  portion  of  the  heat  of  the  fruit.  Another 
safeguard  is  to  wet  a  cloth  in  cold  water,  fold^  and  stand  one  or  more 
jars  upon  it. 

The  filling  of  jars  may  be  greatly  expedited  by  the  use  of  a  gro' 
cer's  funnel,  and  a  small  milk  dipper  is  the  best  thing  for  ladling  out 
the  hot  fruit  or  syrup.  A  glass  funnel  is  a  decided  improvement 
upon  the  tin  affair.  Its  tube  shows  whether  it  is  clean  or  not,  and  it 
can  never  corrode,  as  tin  and  copper  funnels  do.  Put  in  the  first 
spoonful  of  fruit  quickly.  After  this,  fill  quickly  with  the  fruit  at 
boiling  point,  put  on  the  cover  immediately  and  turn  up  the  spring ; 
then  turn  the  bottle  upside  .down,  and  let  it  stand  in  this  position  for 
some  minutes.  This  treatment  will  heat  the  cover  and  thoroughly 
dispose  of  any  microbes  that  may  have  been  lurking  about  the  dish. 
After  cans  have  once  been  used,  and  before  fruit  is  again  put  into 
them,  they  should  be  put  into  a  kettle  of  water  containing  a  handful 
of  sal-soda,  which  must  be  brought  to  a  boil.  Let  them  cool  in  the 
water,  and  rinse  thoroughly  in  clear  water.  This  removes  any  germs 
of  fermentation  that  may  have  lodged  in  the  glass,  "and  the  sod» 

478 


480  CANNED   FRUITS. 

effectually  sweetens  them.  If  the  can  cover  resists  loosening  when 
ready  to  use,  wrap  in  a  cloth  wrung  from  hot  water  and  folded"" 
around  the  top.  If  not,  set  the  can  with  the  top  downward  in  an 
inch  or  so  of  boiling  water.  See  that  it  does  not  touch  the  glass. 
Or  run  knife  under  rubber  ring.  Rings  that  have  hardened  may  be 
dropped  for  one-half  hour  in  a  solution  of  one-third  water  and  two- 
thirds  ammonia,  to  soften.  It  is  better,  however,  to  use  new  rubbers, 
since  they  are  "safe,  and  a  fresh  can  of  fruit  is  certainly  worth  a  new 
ring.  Examine  cans  carefully,  since  it  is  no  uncommon  occurrence 
to  find  small  bits  of  glass  in  them  which  do  not  come  out  with  sim^. 
pie  washing.  The  danger  of  such  bits  of  glass  getting  in  food  cart- 
not  be  over-estimated.  la  selecting  cans  choose  as  far  as  possible, 
those  which  are  free  from  air  bubbles  in  the  glass.  The  more  perfect 
they  are,  the  less  danger  there  is  from  broken  glass. 

There  are  devices  of  various  sorts  for  screwing  on  can  covers 
and  also  for  removing  them,  but  these  are  entirely  unnecessary. 

When  fruit 
hot  the 


_     =— ^^^^^.^  '^^^  cover 

Vf^^^^^^^  and  rubber 

•^  should    b  e 

Can  Opener.  very  hot 

also.  The  cover  is  very  easily  put  on  with  the  fingers,  and  can  be 
sealed  quite  tight  enough  for  safety,  provided  new  rubbers  are  used 
After  a  few  moments,  or  when  the  last  can  is  finished,  go  over  each 
'one  by  course  and  see  if  they  can  be  tightened.  It  is  very  rarely 
that  one  finds  a  cover  that  needs  changing. 

If  an  earthenware  jar  or  jug  is  used  for  canning,  see  that  it  is  per- 
fectly glazed,  otherwise  it  will  not"  be  air-tight  and  the  fruit  will 
not  keep.  Sometimes  there  are  ridges  in  the  glass,  which  prevent 
cans  being  hermetically  sealed  with  rubber  rings;  apply  over  the 
place  a  little  putty  or  a  cold  paste  of  flour  and  water. 

Two-quart  cans  or  jars  should  only  be  used  in  large  families;  one- 
quart  and  one-pint  cans  are  better  for  small  families,  as  canned  fruit 
'does  not  retain  its  freshness  long  after  being  opened.  Opening  canned 
fruit  an  hour  or  two  before  using,  that  it  may  regain  the  excluded 
oxygen,  improves  the  flavor.  A  surplus  of  frUit,  left  from  canning, 
may  be  sealed  hot  in  small  bottles  to  use  for  pudding  sauces,  etc. 


CANNED  FRUITS. 


481 


The  secret  of  canning  fruit  is  to  sterilize  it  completely,  or  to  kilL 
the  germs  of  decay  thoroughly,  otherwise  there  will  be  a  failure.  The 
fruit  may  be  canned  with  qr  without  sugar,  as  the  sugar  is  no  neces- 
sary part  of  its  preservation.  Vegetables  in  which  there  is  sugar 
require  much  longer  to  cook  than  others ;  for  example— corn,  beets 
and  young  peas.  Tomatoes  need  but  20  minutes,  corn  a  full  hour. 
Fill  the  jars  to  overflowing ;  that  the  heat  of  the  syrup  may  sterilize 
the  cover. 

Table  for  Canning. 


FRuns. 


Apples,  sour,  quartered 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Currants,  ripe    .   .   -  '. 

Cranberries 

Crabapples 

Grapes,  ripe  .  . 
Grapes,  wild  .  . 
Plums  .... 
Peaches,  halved 


\ 


Mins. 

10 

6 

5 

.8 

15 

25 

10 

10 

10 

10 


Cfi 


Ozs. 

5 
6 
6 
8 

12 
8 
5 
8 
8 
4 


Frujx«. 


Peaches,  whole  .  .  •  . 
Pears,  small,  sour,  whole 
Pears,  Bartlett,  halved  . 
Pineapples,  sliced  .  .  . 
Pie  Plant,  or  Rhubarb  .' 
Quinces,  sliced  .... 

Raspberries \ 

Strawberries 

Tomatoes,  sliced  .  .  . 
Whortleberries    .    .    .    . 


.9=3 

u 


Mins. 

15 
30 
20 
15 
10 
15 
6 
8 

20 
5 


Ozs. 

6 

10 
6 
6 

10 

10 

4 

8 


Methods  of  SeaUng.— Fill  the  bottles  or  cans  full  of  fruit  pre. 
pared  as  for  canning.  Have  ready  3  or  4  sheets  of  paper.  Cut  to  fit  the 
jars  and  large  enough  to  turn  over  the  rim.  Dip  each  one  in  a  saucer 
containing  the  white  of  an  egg.  Press  on  quickly  and  tie  down;  add 
2  or  3  more  pieces  after  a  time ;  wet  in  the  same  way  on  the  under 
side ;  tie  these  down.  Let  dry  and  you  will  have  an  air-tight  cover- 
ing for  the  fruit,  preferred  by  many  to  the  self-sealing  tops.  Be  par- 
ticular that  .the  jars  finished  in  this  manner  are  kept  in  a  dry  place, 
that  the  paper  may  not  mould.  If  sealing-wax  is  to  be  used,  the  fol- 
lowing is  a  good  formula :  Sealing  Wax.— One  pound  resin ;  1  ounce 
each  of  lard,  tallow  and  beeswax.  Melt  these  ingredients  together. 
Put  the  cork  in  very  tight  and  cover  over  with  the  mixture.  If  neces- 
sary, dip  a  cloth  in  the  mixture  and  tie -firmly  over  the  cork. 

COOK— 31 


482  CANNED  FRUITS. 

A  New  Way  of  Canning. — Scientific  experiments  have  been 
made  in  keeping  fruit  in  jars  covered  only  with  cotton  batting,  and 
at  the  end  of  two  years  the  fruit  was  perfectly  sound.  The  process 
is  as  follows  :  Use  crocks,  stone-bottom  jars,  Or  any  other  convenient 
dishes.  Prepare  and  cook  the  fruit  precisely  as  for  canning  in  glass 
jars ;  fill  dishes  with  the  fruit  while  it  is  yet  hot,  and  immediately 
cover  with  cotton  batting,  securely  tied  on.  Putrefaction  is  caused 
by  the  invisible  creatures  in  the  air.  Cooking  the  fruit  expels  all 
these,  and  as  they  cannot  pass  through  cotton  batting,  the  fruit  thus 
protected  will  keep  an  indefinite  period.  Tyndall  has  proved  that 
atmospheric  germs  cannot  pass  through  a  layer  of  cotton. 

In  flavoring  canned  friiit  do  not  use  spices,  but  ke€p  to  lemon  or 
orange,  or  other  fruit  flavors.  Canning  can  be  done  in  small  quan- 
tities even  better,  and  with  much  leTs  weariness.  When  fruit  and 
vegetables  are  ordered  for  the  table  there  ia  usually  some  left,  and  a 
can  or  two  can  be  put  up  with  very  little  inconvenience.  In  opening 
a  tin  can  of  fruit  pour  out  the  contents  immediately.  Leave  exposed 
to  the  air  in.  an  open  dish  for  some  little  time  before  using,  and  if  any 
remains  over  put  away  in  an  earthen  dish.  To  test  fruit  or  vegetables 
put  up  in  tin  cans  (such  as  a're  bought  at  the  store)  apply  the  thumbs 
to  both  ends  of  the  can.  If  it  resists  pressure,  the  contents  are  well 
preserved.  Reject  every  article  that  does  not  show  the  hne  of  resin 
round  the  edge  of  the  solder  of  the  cap,  the  same  as  is  seen  on  the 
seam  on  the  side  of  the  can.  Reject  every  can  that  does  not  have 
the  name  of  the  manufacturer  or  firm  upon  it,  as  well  as  the  name  of 
the  company  or  town  where  manufactured.  When  the  cans  are  full 
of  the  boiling  fruit,  run  a  spoon  down  to  get  out  the  air-bubbles.  Let 
the  froth  run  off  the  top  of  jar  and  seal. 

"^  Steam  Canning. — The  simplest  canning  apparatus  is  undoubtedly 
the  best.  In  these  days  of  many  patents,  when  the  market  is  filled 
with  various  elaborate  devices  for  canning  purposes,  it  is  pleasant 
to  know  that  the  very  best  j;esults  may  be  obtained  with  a  simple 
wooden  rack  fitted  into  a  flat-bottomed  clothes  boiler.  A  good 
boiler  of  this  kind,  of  heavy  tin,  large  enough  to  hold  1}4  dozen 
cans,  may  now  be  purchased  at  small  cost.  Any  amateur  carpenter 
may  easily  make  the  rack  out  of  pine  strips  a  half  inch  thick  and 
1}4  inches  wide.  Or,  simpler  still,  each^jar  can  be  set  on  a  small 
block  of  wood. 


CANNED  FRUITS.  483 

The  jars  are  filled  with  fruit  and  covered  with  the  syrup  Aade 
from  the  juice,  in  the  case  of  soft  fruit,  like  berries;  and  of  water,  in 
the  proportion  of  5  pints  of  water  to  7  pounds  of  sugar,  in  the  case  of 
harder  fruits,  like  peaches,  pears  and  plums.  The  covers  are  screwed 
down  without  a  rubber,  and  the  jars  set  on  this  rack  and  separated 
by  kitchen  towels.  They  are  immersed  up  to  their  necks  in  warm 
water,  which  is  allowed  to  come  to  the  boiling  point.  In  the  case  ol 
delicate  fruits,  like  strawberries,  the  water  is  allowed  to  boil  but  3 
''  minutes  around  the  jars.  In  the  case  of  pineapples,  it  boils  5 
minutes;  in  case  of  peaches,  pears  and  plupis,  and  most  other  fruits, 
20  minutes.  As  soon  as  the  time  of  boiling  is  over,  the  fruit  is 
removed  at  once,  jar  by  jar,  the  cover  is  taken  off,  the  jar  is  filled  to 
the  brini  with  fresh,  boiling  syrup,  to  take  the  place  of  that  which  has  . 
"been  absorbed.  Or,  take  one  of  the  cans  and  use  to  fill  the  cans  per- 
fectly full.  The  rubber  is  put  on  and  the  cover  is  screwed  up  as 
tight  as  possible.  When  the  jars  are  cold  the  covers  are  tightened 
again,  and  each  jar  is  wrapped  in  paper,  to  exclude  its  contents  from 
the  light,  and  is  set  away  in  a  preserve  closet.  The  closet  should  be 
in  a  place  where  the  uniform  temperature  is  as  near  to  50  degrees 
as  possible.    A  dry  cellar  is  usually  the  best  place. 

Steam  Canning.' — II.  Fill  the  jars  with  raw  fruit,  and  put  in  the 
boiler  as  above.  Let  cook  until  half  done,  then  open  and  fill  up  the 
cans  with  a  good  syrup,  made  of  sugar  and  water.  Have  this  boiling 
hot.  By  having  the  syrup  very  rich,  a  delicious  preserve  can  be 
made,  with  the  added  advantage  of  the  fruit  cooking  fresh  and 
whole.  Try  the  cans  after  they  are  cold.  More  than  once  will  do 
no  harm.  "^ 

Canned  Strawberries.'— The  first  berries  picked  from  the  vines 
are  the  firmest  and  the  finest  flavored,  and  so  are  better  for  canning 
than  those  gathered  later.  Allow  2  baskets  to  a  quart-jar.  Put  half 
a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  of  water  on  to  boil, 
and  boil  until  it  begins  to  crystallize.  Then  drop  in  the  fruit  carefully 
and  just  let  it  boil  up  about  2  minutes.  Then  carefully  skim  out  the 
fruit  into  the  jars,  and  fill  to  overflowing  with  the  boiling  syrup.  Seal. 
Use  an  asbestos  mat  to  stand  the  boiling  syrup  on  to  prevent  scorching. 

Canned  Strawberries. — II.  First  wash  your  berries,  then  take 
two-thirds  berries  and  one-third  sugar ;  put  a  layer  of  berries,  then  a 
layer  of  sugar  .into  an  earthen  dish  until  you  have  used  them  all;'  let 


484  -         CANNED  FRUITS. 

them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  turn  off  the  juice,  put  it  over 
the  fire,  let  it  come  to,  a  boil  and  skim ;  add  the  berries,  let  them  boil, 
just  enough  to  scald  them,  then  can.  Strawberries  canned  in  this 
way  are  very  nice  and  retain  their  color  and  size.  To  help  strawber- 
ries to  retain  their  natural  color,  keep  the  jars  in  total  darkness. 

Cold  Water  Canmug. — Cranberries,  blueberries,  gooseberries,  pie 
plant  and  currants  cfan  be  prepared  in  this  manner :  Fill  self-sealing 
cans  full  of  fruit.  Boil  water  to  remove  gases  and  impurities.  Cool 
thoroughly.  Fill  the  cans  full  and  seal  tight.  Pie  plant  should  be 
cut  in  inch-long  pieces.  Pineapple  can  be  canned  in  its  own  juice. 
Cut  it  up  in  small,  dice-shaped  pieces.  Add  1  }^  pounds  of  sugar  to 
1  pound  of  the  fruit,  Seal  it  up  cold.  Keep  where  there  is  no  dan- 
ger of  freezing.     Put  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  layers  in  the  can. 

Carnued  Ptneapple  (Whole). — Pare  and  remove  the  cores  fron) 
the  pineapples.  Take  out  cores  and  place  each  pineapple  in  a  large- 
mouthed  jar.  Cover  with  boiling  water ;  place  the  jars  in  a  steam 
cooker  or  a  patent  canner,  and  steam  continuously  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour^  Seal ;  when  cool,  examine  tops  to  see  that  they  are  as 
tight  as  can  be  made.  Put  the  covers  on  tight,  without  the  rubber. 
The  amount  of  cooking  must  be  regulated  by  the  judgment,  as  some 
kinds  of  fruit  require  more  than  others.  If  patent  canners  or  steam 
cookers  are  not,  convenient,  take  an  ordinary  wash-boiler  and  put  a 
board  in  the  bottom  with  auger  holes  in  it  for  the  water  to  boil 
through.  Cold  water  can  be  used  to  fill  the  cans  instead  of  hot. 
Fruit  prepared  in  this  fashion  can  be  served  sliced  with  sugar  same  as 
fresh  fruit. 

^,  Mulberries,  To  Can. — Our  native  mulberry  is  a  highly  aromatic- 
flavored  fruit,  with  a  pleasant  sub-acid  juice.  It  is  said  to  be  very 
cooling  and  whQles6Ma,e,  in  its  effects.  The  fruit  when  ripe  is  black, 
and  should  be  gathered  at  once.  It  may  be  used  in  all  recipes  where 
blackberries  are  used,  and  also  makes  excellent  jelly  and  preserves 
for  winter  use. 

Canned  Elderberries. — To  a  gallon  of  black  elderberries  that 
have  been  stemmed  and  washed,  add  1  quart  of  vinegar.  If  the  vin- 
egar is  very  strong,  use  a  little  less.  When  they  have  boiled  a  min- 
ute or  two,  pour  into  glass  jars  and  seal.  When  wanted  for  pies  add 
sugar  to  taste  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  using^l  pint  of  berries. 
Elderberries  prepared  in  this  way  make  excellent  pies. 


CANNED  FRUITS.  48B 

Ganixed  Blackbenrles. — ^To  can  blackberries  allow  a  cup  of  sugar 
to  2  cups  of  water  for  every  can  of  fruit.  Let  this  syrup  boil  up 
over  the  fire  for  10  minutes.  Fill  cans  with  the  fruit.  Cover  them 
with  the  syrup,  which  need  not  be  cooled  for  this  purpbse,  but  may 
be  used  inoderately  warm,  as  the  blackberry  is  not  a  very  delicate 
fruit  like  the  strawberry  and  the  raspberry.  Put  on  the  covers  of  the 
jars  without  the  rubbers;  or,  m  case  the  new  patent  jars  are  used, 
leave  the  vent  open.  Proceed  according  to  directions  for  steam  can- 
ning. 

Cranberries,  To  Can. — Proceed  by  the  cold-water  method,  oi 
steam  canning. 

Green  Currants,  Canned. — A  relish  for  meats.  Pick  and  stem 
green  currants,  and  stew  until  tender  in  boiling  water.  Pour  off  the 
water,  and  for  every  pint  of  currants  add  1  cupful  of  brown  sugar. 
Rub  the  stewed  currants  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds  and 
skins.  Bottle  when  liot.  Also  proceed  by  the  cold-water  method, 
or  steam  canning. 

Canned  Plums. — Proceed  by  the  method  of  steam  canning.  Or, 
allow  a  half  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit.  If  the  green- 
gage variety  are  used,  prick  the  skins  of  each  several  times  before 
cooking.  Make  a  syrup,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  slowly,  skim  and 
add  the  plums.    When  cooked  till  tender  they  are  ready  for  the  cans. 

Canned  Pears. — To  every  3  poUnds  of  fruit  allow  1%  pounds  of 
sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water.  Peel  the  pears ;  halve,  if  wished, 
and  lay  them  in  cold  water  to  keep  them  from  turning  dark  before 
they  are  wanted.  When  the  syrup  is  boiling,  put  the  pears  in  and  cook 
till  they  look  clear  or  a  fork  can  be  stuck  into  them  easily.  Carefully 
fill  the  jars  with  the  fruit  Pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them,  filling  the 
jars  to  the  top.  Cover  and  seal.  Some  cooks  steam  the  pears  before 
putting  in  the  syrup.  Pile  the  peeled  fruit  on  a  plate  and  steam  in  a 
steamer  until  a  straw  will  pehetrate  the  fruit,  then  proceed  as  above, 

Quinces,  Canned. — Peel,  core,  and  wash.  Allow  half  a  pound 
of  granulated  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  to  1  pound  of  quinces. 
Bpil  together  slowly,  until  the  quinces  are  tender.  Have  the  jars 
thoroughly  heated ;  fill  nearly  to  the  top  with  the  quinces,  and  over- 
flow with  the  juice.     Seal  quickly. 

Peacbes,  Canned. — Pare  the  fruit,  cut  in  half,  remove  the  pits, 
and  with  these  raw  halves  pack  the  jars  closely.     Make  a  heavy 


486  CANNED  FRUITS. 

syrup  of  2  pounds  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water,  and  when  it  is  well 
done  pour  it  over  the  fruit,  and  seal  at  once.  The  peaches  will  pare 
more  easily  if  dropped  in  boiling  water.  Have  a  large  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water  on  the  fire.  Fill  a  wire  basket  with  peaches,  and  lower  it 
intp  the  boiling  water  for  about  2  minutes.^  Turn  the  peaches  out  on  a 
dish  and  pare  them.  To  do  this,  however,  t^6  peaches  must  be  very 
firm.  A  few  of  the  peach  pits,  blanched,  and  dropped  in  each  can 
will  improve  the  flavor  for  most  people.  It  is  not  necessary  to  make 
such  a  rich  syrup  when  the/ruit  is  canned,\  Pound  for  pound,  or 
even  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and  half  a  pint  of 
v/ater  to  every  3  pounds  of  fruit.  Keep  the  peaches  in  cold  water, 
after  paring,  until  all  are  used.  This  prevents  discoloring.  Put  the 
fruit  in  the  syrup  in  small  quantities.  Cook  about  5  minutes,  remove, 
and  pack  in  the  jars,  and  fill  up  with  the  hot  syrup,  meanwhile  put- 
ting more  fruit  in  the  syrup  to  cook.  The  same  syrup  can  be  used 
for  several  jars  of  fruit.  This  same  process  can  be  followed  with  many 
other  fruits,  such  as  pears,  etc.  Both  peaches  and  pears  look  better 
if  the  syrup  be  strained.  Have  a  fii^e  strainer  in  the  funnel  through 
which  the  syrup  is  poured  into  the  jar, 

Ganued  Cherries. — Add  to  them  one-third  their  weight  in  sugar; 
after  it  has  dissolved  boil  slowly  for  15  minutes,  put  in  bottles  or  cans, 
and  seal  hot.  By  some,  the  taste  given  by  leaving  in  the  pits  is  thought 
an  improvement.  If  this  flavor  is  desired,  the  pits  should  be  tied  in 
a  thin  piece  of  muslin  or  netting  and  boiled  with  the  cherries,  but 
cherries  should  never  be  canned  without  removing  the  stones. 

Cherries  in  Molasses. — Stem  ripe  cherries  and  put  in  wide- 
mouthed  bottles,  filling  nearly  full.  Then  pour  in  New  Orleans 
molasses  to  cover  completely.  Drive  in  a  tightly-fitting  cork,  and 
cover  with  2  or  3  thicknesses  of  egg  paper.  (See  directions.)  Shake 
occasionally,  in  order  to  mix  the  contents.  The  fruit  will  absorb 
enough  of  the  molasses  to  render  it  sweet  enough  to  make  into  pud-( 
dings  or  pies,  without  farther  sweetening. 

Canned  Apples.^Make  a  nice  sauce  from  tart  apples,  cook  quite 
smooth.  Bell  FloWe'rs  are  the  best.  This  is  a  nice  way  to  keep  them 
when  they  begin  to  spoil. 

Apples  and  Baisins  (to  Can). — Make  the  sauce  as  above.  To 
each  can  of  this  sauce  add  1  or  1  ^^  cupfuls  nice  raisins.  Put  in  when 
the  fruit  first  begins  to  cook.  This  adds  both  to  flavor  and  appearance. 


CANNED  FRUITS.  ^    487 

Rhubarb,  or  Pie  Plant  (to  Can).— Can  by  the  cold  water  pro- 
ces.  (See  directions.)  Drop  a  silver  spoon  down  in  the  can  and  see 
that  all  of  the  air  bubbles  escape.  Pint  jars  are  convenient,  since  that 
size  makes  one  good  pie. 

Canned  Green  Peas. — Shell  and  can  by  the  rule  for  steam  can^ 
ning.  ,  Fill  the  cans  as  for  fruit,  omitting  sugar.  Boil  the  same  way 
until  they  are  sufficiently  cooked ;  fill  each  can  up  with  hot  water. 
Screw  down  tight  and  set  away.  Some  housekeepers  prefer  to  cook  j 
Ihe  vegetables  10  or  15  minutes,  then  fill  the  cans  and  finish  cooking. 
Instead  of  filling  up  with  water,  take  1  or  more  of  the  cans  and  fill 
up  the  others.  Do  not  put  the  rubber  rings  on  the  cans  until  after 
the  second  canning.  In  this  way  the  cans  are  almost  solid  fruit,  and 
economy  of  space  is  secured.  In  preparing  for  the  table,  dilute  with 
hot  water  as  much  as  desired,  or  milk,  and  season  to  taste.  Let  them 
boil  about  20  minutes. 

Green  Beans  (to  Can). — These  are  excellent  canned  as  above. 
String  and  cut  in  pieces  as  for  the  table.  Or  simply  boil  the  pre- 
pared beans  rapidly  10  or  15  minutes,  and  can  at  once.  Run  a  silver 
spoon  around  the  inside  of  the  jar  to  break  the  air  bubbles.  In  the 
morning  tighten  the  covers  and  put  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Canned  Pumpkin. — Steam  the  pumpkin,  first  slicing  and  remov- 
ing seeds;  leave  in  the  shell.  When  done,  scrape  from  the  shell. 
Mash,  fill  into  cans,  hot,  being  careful  that  no  air-bubbles  remain  in 
filling  the  can.  Seal  up.  It  can  be  prepared  for  pies  the  same  as 
fresh  pumpkin,  from  which  it  cannot  be  told.  Instead  of  steaming, 
it  may  be  baked  and  s^ped  from  the  shell. 

Tomatoes  (to  Can).^Tomatoes,  if  cut  in  half  and  canned  in  water 
only,  can  be  used  either  in  salads,  fried  or  broiled,  and  no  one  would 
ever  know  but  that  they  were  fresh  from  the  vines.  .  See  rule  for  cold- 
water  canning.  , 

Canned  Tomatoes. — Pare  and  slice  and  fill  into  bottles,  and  pro- 
ceed as  for  steam  canning.  Another  way  is  to  put  the  whole,  un- 
peeled  fruit  in  jars,  first  carefully  wiping,  and  choosing  round,  medium- 
sized  and  perfect  tomatoes.  Then  proceed  as  for  steam  canning, 
filling  up  the  jars  with  hot  water.  They  will  be  all  ready  for  salads 
or  frying.  Yellow  tomatoes  are  very  nice  canned  in  the  cold-water 
fashion,  and  would  .make  a  very  pretty  salad  for  a  Yellow  Tea  or 
Luncheon. 


488  CANNED   FRUITS. 

Tomatoes  Canned  Whole. — Place  a  preserving  kettle  on  stove 
half  full  of  water.  When  it  coines  to  a  boil,  put  in  whole  tomatoes, 
previously  skinned.  Heat  thoroughly  all  through.  Lift  carefully 
into  hot  glass  jars  and  fill  jars  to  overflowing  with  the  hot  water  in 
which  they  are  cooked.  Screw  covers  on  air-tight.  Place  in  paper 
bags,  each  jar  by  itself.  Keep  in  cool  place.  Be  sure  there  are  no 
air  bubbles.     Soald  the  tomatoes  that  they  may  peel  more  easily. 

Canned  Com. — Pick  the  corn  as  soon  as  it  is  right  for  table  use ;' 
do  not  allow  any  delay  in  the,<matter.  Husk  and  remove  every  par- 
ticle of  the  silk.  Thpn  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  with  a  sharp  knife, 
taking  care  not  to  cut  too  near  the  cob ;  scrape  out  the  milk;  pack 
the  corn  in  glass  cans,  pressing  it  in  as  firmly  as  possible  with  a 
wooden  pestle ;  do  this  very  thoroughly ;  fill  the  cans  full  to  the 
brim,  and  screw  on  the  coygrs  as  tight  as  you  can.  Put  a  thin  layer 
of  hay  or  straw  into  a  large  kettle  or  boiler,  lay  the  cans  on  it  in  any 
position ;  over  these  put  a  layer  of  the  straw,  fill  the  vessel  in  this 
order,  cover  with  cdfe  wat^r,  put  on  the  range  and  boil  for  three 
hours.  Let  the  cans  remain  in  the  water  until  cold ;  then  remove 
them,  tighten  the  coveirs,  and  set  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Two  or 
three  thicknesses  of  cloth  may  be  put  under  and  between  the  cans 
if  preferred,  but  they  must  not  be  allowed  to  touch  each  other  while 
boiling,  for  fear  of  breaking  them.  Or,  use  the  way  described  in 
Steam  Cookery.     Keep  in  a  dark  place. 

Canned  Asparagus. — Select  firm,  evgn-sized  stalks  of  asparagus, 
and,  if  liecessary,  wash  it.  When  drained,  put  it  carefully' into  jars, 
heads  up,  packing  as  closely  as  possible.  Fill  the  jars  with  boiling, 
slightly  salted  water,  steam  for  half  an  hour  and  seal  at  once. 

Canned  Milk. — Milk  canned  this  way  can  be  kept  for  six  months,, 
and  when  opened  it  is  fresh  and  nice.  Take  the  milk  as  soon  as  the 
animal  heat  is  out,  put  in  a  kettle  or  pail,  and  set  into  a  boiler  of  hot 
water  and  bring  it  to  a  boiling  heat.  Then  pour  into  common  fruit 
jars,  and  seal  the  same  as  canned  fruit  Place  the  jars  in  the  cellar 
or  a  cool  place,  and  keep  until  used. 

Canned  Beef  Tong^ue. — Boil,  skin,  and  slice  a  beef's  tongue, 
'corned  or  fresh  ;  return  to  the  kettle,  and  when  boiling  hot  pack  in  a 
Mason's  can,  pressing  down  hard ;  cover  an  inch  deep  with  the  boil- 
ing liquor  and  seal.  If  fresh,  season  the  slices,  as  they  are  packed,, 
with  salt  and  pepper.     Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  cellar. 


CANNED  FRUITS.       ,  489 

Honeys,  Syrups,  Butters. 

Quince  Syrup  for  Hot  Cakes. — Grate  3  large  quinces,  add  3 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  quart  of  water.  Let  it  simmer 
slowly  for  2  or  3  hours  after  having  brought  it  to  the  boiling  point. 

Cherry  Syrup. — Stone  the  cherries,  mash  them  and  press  out  the 
juice  in  a  crock  or  bowl ;  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  2  days.  Fil- 
ter, add  2  pounds  of  sugar  t6  1  pint  of  juice,  stir  well  over  the  fire 
until  it  boils,  and  bottle.     Excellent  with  hot  cakes. 

Maple  Syrup. — One-half  pound  maple  sugar,  1  pound  white  sugar, 
3  pints  water.  Break  maple  sugar  small,  place  on  fire  with  sugar  and 
water ;  boil  5  minutes ;  skim,  then  cool. 

Substitute  for  Maple  Syrup. — One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  just 
enough  water  to  keep  it  from  sticking,  boil  1  minute,  take  from  fire, 
add  3  drops  of  the  extract  of  vanilla. 

Strawben^f  Syrup. — Take  fresh  strawberries  and  inclose  in  a 
coarse  bag.     Press  but  the  juice  and  to  each  quart  add  1  pint  of 
water  and  6  pounds  white  sugar.     Dissolve  by  raising  to  the  boiling^ 
point  and  strain.     Bottle  and  cork  while  hot,  then  keep  in  a  cool 
place. 

Apricot  Syrup. — Take  off  the  skins  from  some  ripe  apricots,  stone 
and  cut  in  small  pieces,  place  in  a  dish,  and  strew  over  them  a  thin 
layer  of  sifted  sugar ;  let  them  remain  a  couple  of  hours  ;  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  water,  and  let  simmer  gently  until  they  are  soft ; 
strain  the  juice,  and  add  to  it  sugar  in  th'e  proportion  of  one-quarter 
pound  to  a  pint ;  boil  it  gently,  skimming  thoroughly  all  the  time  ; 
let  it  get  cold,  then  bottle  it.  It  will  be  found  useful  to  flavor  cus- 
tards, cream,  ices,  etc.  The  fruit  in  the  jelly  bag  must  not  be 
squeezed.  After  the  juice  has  run  from  it,  it  will  make  very  nice 
tartlets  with  the  addition  of  a  little  sugar.  Time  to  boil  with  the 
sugar,  10  or  12  minutes.  .        ^ 

Simple  Syrup  for  Hot  Cakes. — One-half  pint  of  water  to  each 
pound  of  sugar.  When  it  is  thoroughly  dissolved  set  over  a  gentle 
fire  and  let  boil  half  an  hour.  When  clear  and  boiling  hot,  spread  a 
wet  napkin  over  a  bowl  and  strain  the  syrup  through.  Som^  like  to 
flavor  this  with  rose,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  or  even  lemon. 

Hygienic  Cream  Sauce  for  Hot  Cakes.— One-half  pint  milk,  one- 
half  pint  cream,  yolk  of  1  egg,  tablespoonful  buckwheat  dissolved  in 


490  CANNED  FRUITS. 

\ 
a  little  milk,  large  pinch  salt.   Bring  milk  and  cream  to  boil,  in  thick, 

well-lined  saucepan ;  add  to  it  buckwheat  dissolved  in  milk,  stirring 
rapidly  to  prevent  lumping,  allow  it  to  boil  5  minutes ;  remove  from 
fire,  beat  in  the  yolk  of  egg  diluted  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk. 
This  is  better  and  far  more  healthful  (especially  for  children)  than  so 
much  butter  and  syrup. 

Lemon  Syrup. — Put  3  pounds  of  white  sugar  in  a  preserving 
kettle.  Cover  with  1  quart  of  water.  Boil  until  it  is  a  clear  syrup^ 
stirring  frequently.  When  cool  add  1  ounce  of  citric  acid,  and  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  oil  of  lemon.     Bottle  immediately. 

Orange  Syrup. — Squeeze  out  the  juice  of  fresh  oranges ;  to  1 
pint  of  the  juice  putl^  pounds  of  sugar.  Set  over  a  moderate  fire. 
When  the  sugar  has  dissolved,  drop  in  the  peel  of  the  oranges,  and  ^ 
let  boil  slowly  10  minutes.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Do  not 
squeeze  the  bag  or  the  jelly  will  not  be  clear.  Bottle,  cork  and  seal. 
Very  nice  to  flavor  puddings,  etc. 

Lemon  Syrup  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  1^  pounds  of 
sugar  to  1  pint  of  lemon  juice.  Wring  the  flannel  bag  out  of  hot 
water  before  straining. 

Lemon  Honey. — Lemon  honey  is  a  queer,  old-fashioned  dessert 
which  is  easily  made  and  delicious  for  va  summer  relish.  Stir  the 
yolks  of  6  and  the  whites  of  4  eggs  into  a  pound  of  granulated 
sugar.  Add  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  2,  and  a 
scant  2  ounces  of  butter.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly, , 
and  when-the  mass  is  thick  and  clear  like  honey,  pour  it  into  custard 
cups  and  set  in  the  ice-box.  If  you  wish  to  make  this  dessert  a  trifle 
more  elaborate,  add  a  meringue  to  each  cup  before  setting  away  to 
cool. 

If  evada  Mountain  Honey, — One  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  one- 
half  ounce  alum.  Put  in  a  kettle  and  boil.  Add  to  this  4  pounds 
white  sugar.  Boil  3  minutes  after  it  has  dissolved.  Skim.  Strain 
while  hot.  Take  3  drops  of  oil  of  rose  to  one-half  pint  of  alcohol, 
and  put  1  Idrge  teaspoonful  of  this  to  the  above  mixture.  An  excel- 
lent imitation  of  honey,  and  a  fine  article  for  sale. 

Artificial  Honey. — Ten  pounds  brown  sugar,  1  quart  of  water,  2 
pounds  old  bee  honey,  1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  2  teaspoonfuls  gum 
Arabic.  Mix  and  boil  3  minutes.  Add  to  this  1  quart  of  water 
beaten  up  with  1  egg,  and  continue  boiling  5  or  6  minutes,  removing 


CANNED  FRUITS.  491 

any  scum  that  may  rise.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  when  nearly  cold, 
add  2  pounds  more  of  bee  honey,  1  teaspoonful  essence  peppermint, 
2  teaspoonfuls  extract  rose.     One-half  the  recipe  is  a  good  quantity. 

Quince  Honey^ — Quince  honey  is  delicious  when  spread  upon 
pancakes  or  fritters.  Here  is  a  recipe^  for  making  it :  Make  a  syrup 
of  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water,  into  which  stir  2  large 
peeled  and  grated  quinces.  Boil  for  15  minutes  and  can  for  winter 
use  or  put  in  jelly  glasses.  i 

Tomato  Honey. — To  every  pound  of  ripe  tomatoes  allow  6  fresh 
peach  leaves — if  you  can  get  them — and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Cut  the  tomatoes  into  small  pieces,  add  leaves  and  rind,  and  stew 
slowly  until  well  done.  Press  through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  for  every 
pint  of  juice  1  pound  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Return  to 
the  fire  and  cook  till  thick  like  honey.  If  cooked  quickly  without  a 
cover  it  will  be  a  much  lighter  color.  It  can  be  kept  ,in  cans  or 
bottled  and  sealed,  and  will  be  much  relished  by  the  little  folks. 

Orange  Butter. — ^Take  the  juice  of  6  oranges  and  yolks  of  8 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Rub  together  in  a  mortar  with  5  tablespoonfuls  of 
pulverized  loaf  sugar  and  1  tablespoonful  of  orange-water.  When 
reduced  to  a  paste  stir  over  a  slow  fire  for  20  minutes  until  thickened. 
Dip  a  mould  in  cold  water  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  When  cold 
turn  out  and  serve  with  fancy  cakes, 

Ijemon  Butter. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  three-fourths 
cup  of  sugar  and  a  scant  teaspoon  of  butter.  Put  the  lemon  juice, 
grated  rind  and  pugar  into  a.  bowl  and  place  in  dish  of  boiling  water. 
When  the  sugar  is  melted  and  the  syrup  hot  add  a  well-beaten  egg, 
stirring  constantly  for  10  minutes  or  till  the  mixture  thickens.  Then 
stir  in  the  butter,  put  the  bowl  into  a  dish  of  cold  water,  stirring 
occasionally' until  it  cools.  This  is  very  rich  and  maybe  kept  for 
weeks  in  a  covered  dish.    Use  as  a  sauce,  or  for  tarts  or  layer  cakes. 


•iiigJull 


Pickles  are  simple  and  inexpensive  to  pre- 
pare, and  various  kijids  should  be  found  in  the 
storeroom.  They  add  variety  to  the  bill  of  fare; 
and  are  a  stimulant  to  the  appetite.  All  vegetables, 
many  fruits  and  parts  of  some  flowers — notably  the 
seed  vessel  of  the  nasturtium — may  be  used.  The 
first  requisite  to  success  in  pickle-making  is  good  vine- 
gar, strong  and  pungenti  Prepare  the  vegetables  by 
washing  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Gherkins  or  small  cucumbers, 
beans  and  small  peppers,  as  well  as  nasturtium  seeds,  need  only  to 
be  washed  and  drained  thoroughly  to  be  ready  for  pickling.-  ;  Onions 
must  be  peeled,  cabbages  sliced  and  cauliflowers  picked  apart  before 
they  can  be  used-  Peaches,  pears,  grapes  and  watermelon  rind  make 
the  most  popular  of  the  fruit  pickles.  Peaches  are  nicest  when 
peeled,  though  many  people  simply  rub  the  roughness  off"  with  a 
rough  towel.  Pears  do  not  require  peeling.  The  melon  rind  must 
be  peeled  and  cut  in  thick  slices.  Do  not  use  a  copper  kettle  in  any 
part  of  the  processof  pickle-making,  but  use  instead  a  porcelain-lined 
preserving  kettle.  Vinegar  boiled  in  copper  forms  acetate  of  copper, 
which  is  green  and  a  poison.  Many  very  serious  accidents  have  hap- 
pened through  the  use  of  copper  vessels. 

Cider  vinegar  should  be  used  when  possible.  Other  vinegar  fre- 
quently softens  or  eats  the  pjckles.  If  the  vinegar  is  too  strong, 
dilute  it  with  water.  If  the  pickles  are  to  be  put  in  jars,  be  sure  that 
they  have  never  been  used  to  hold  any  kind  of  grease. 

Pickles  that  are  canned  and  sealed  hot  are  certain  to  keep,  and  all 
trouble  of  watching,  and,  perhaps,  scalding,  is  avoided.  Be  sure 
that  pickles  are  kept  where  they  will  not  freeze.  Brine-  for  putting 
down  pickles  should  be  made  in  the  proportion  of  1  pint  of  coarse 
salt  to  1  gallon  of  water.  Mustard  seed,  used  in  seasoning  pickles, 
helps  to  prevent  mould  from  forming.  A  cluster  or  two  of  green 
grapes  added  to  pickles  helps  to  preserve  the  strength  of  the  vinegar. 
«9f 


PI@KLES.  493 

Watch  pickles,  and  stir  occasionally,  and  take  out  any  soft  ones 
that  may  be  found  among  them.  It  is  best  in  this  case  to  pour  off 
the  vinegar,  scald,  and  turn  bads  hot.  If  it  is  found  to  be  very  wfeak, 
new  vinegar  should  be  heated  and  turned  on  instead.  If  a  scum  or 
froth  forms  on  the  pickles,  draw  the  vinegar  and  wash  the  pickles  thor- 
oughly in  plenty  of  clear  water ;  then  boil  the  vinegar,  skimmijig  off  all 
froth  that  appears,  and  continuing  the  boiling  as  long  as  any  froth 
rises.  Turn  the  vinegar  while  still  hot  over  the  pickles,  and  set  them 
away.  Put  pickles  away,  when  finished,  in  a  stone  jar,  tying  a  clean 
white  cloth  over  the  mouth  of  the  jar  before  adjusting  the  cover.  Al- 
ways lay  a  plate  upon  the  pickles  to  hold  them  well  under  the  vinegar. 
Horseradish  put  in  pickles  when  they  are  first  put  up  will  keep  the 
vinegar  from  losing  its  strength,  and  the  pickles  will  not  be  liable  to 
become  soft  or  mouldy.  This  is  especially  good  for  tomato  pickles. 
A  little  bag  of  mustard  laid  on  the  top  of  pickle  jars  will  prevent 
vinegar  from  becoming  nSiouldy  if  the  pickles  are  put  up  in  vinegar 
that  has  not  been  boiled.  Or,  cover  the  jars  or  pottles  with  cloth, 
spread  with  mixed  mustard ;  it  keeps  them  in  fine  condition.  To  keep 
pickled  onions  and  cabbage  from  turning  yellow,  use  white  wine  vine- 
gar for  pickling. 

To  Keep  Pickles  Grreen. — It  is  desirable  to  retain  the  green, 
color  of  gherkins,  beans,  green  tomatoes,  etc.  To  accomplish  this, 
some  .days  before  picklirig  add  grapevine  leaves  to  the  vinegar  to  be 
used,  and  let  it  steep  until  ready  to  use,  when  the  vinegar  ought  to 
have  a  decided  green  color,  which  color  will  of  necessity  be  imparted 
to  the  vegetables.     This  is  perfectly  harmless. 

To  Keep  Pickles  Firm. — One-half  bushel  of  grape-leaves  added 
to  1  barrel  of  pickles  in  brine  will  keep  them  sound  and  firm.  The 
reason  that  pickles  soften  is  that  the  vinegar  is  eithet  too  strong  or 
too  weak ;  if  the  latter  is  the  case,  a  white  scum  will  rise  to  the  top 
of  the  jar.  Stronger  vinegar  must  then  be  procured  and  turned  over 
the  pickles,  which  must  first  be  drained  and  thoroughly  washed  to 
remove  all  the  white  particles. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — ^Use  very  small  cucumbers,  none  more  than 
2)4  inches  lo'ng.  To  each  100  cucumbers  allow  an  otince  of  mustard 
seed,  an  ounce  of  cloves,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  2  small  red  peppers.  Put  the  spices  in  thin  muslin  bags, 
using  at  least  2  bags  to  each  100  pickles.     Put  the  cticumbers  in  a 


494  PICKLES. 

/>- 

kettle  on  the  stove  with  enough  good  vinegar  to  cover  them;  also 
place  the  bags  of  spices  in  the  vinegar,  together  with  the  peppers  cut 
in  slices.  Heat  the  vinegar  as  slowly  ^s  possible ;  when  it  is  scald- 
ing hot  the  pickles  are  ready  to  set  away. 

The  method  is  especially  to  be  commended,  when  only  a  few  cu- 
cumbers are  to  be  pickled,  The  vinegar  should  be  sharp  and  of  good 
quality.  Examine  the  pickles  every  week  or  10  days  for  some  time 
after  they  are  put  up,  to  be  sure  that  all  remain  firm  and  sound.  If 
any  soft  pickles  are  found,  throw  them  away,  and  drain  the  vinegar 
from  the  remainder;  add  a  little  water  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  to 
every  200  pickles ;  scald  the  vinegar,  and  return  it  to  the  pickles 
while  hot. 

encumber  Pickles. — II.  Select  sound  cucumbers  from  2  to  3 
inches  in  length ;  wash  well  and  pack  in  a  large  stone  jar,  sprinkling 
salt  between  the  layers  in  proportion  of  a  pint  to  200  pickles.  Fill 
to  the  brim  with  boiling  .water.  Let  it  stand  till  cold,  or  over  night; 
drain  and  wipe  dry;  pack  again  in  the  jar,  with  a  liberal  sprinkling 
between  the  layers  of  bruised,  not  powdered,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and 
allspice,  and  small  pieces  of  horseradish  root,  which  is  indispensable. 
Then  fill  up  until  covered  with  boiling  cider  vinegar.  After  2  days, 
drain  off  and  scald  the  vinegar,  skim  if  need  be,  and  pour  it  back  hot, 
and  in  3  or  4  days  repeat  the  process.  In  a  week  they  will  be  good 
to  use,  and  if  the  cellar  is  reasonably  cool  and  dry,  they  will  keep 
without  any  further  attention,  remaining  solid  and  crisp  until  pickle 
time  comes  again,  provided  enough  are  made  to  last.  A  few  green 
peppers  in  the  virtegar  give  an  added  flavor,  and  are  a  great  improve- 
ment. 

Alcobol  i^ckles.-'— An  Old-fashioned  pickle.  One  pint  of  alcohol, 
.5  pints  of  rain  water.  In  pickling  be  sure  to  leave  the  stems  on  the 
cucumbers.  Wash  carefully  in  clear  water.  Pour  on  the  water  and 
alcohol,  weigh  down  the  cucumbers,  set  in  a  warm  'place. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles. — Put  the  pickles  down  in  saltj  as  for 
"  Cucumber  Pickles,  II."  Small,  even-sized  cucumbers  or  gherkins 
,  are  nicest  for  use.  Wipe  the  pickles  well  after  they  are  taken  out  of 
the  brine,  and  soak  them  for  a  few  days  in  vinegar  to  extract  the  salt. 
Put  them  in  a  jar,  with  a  layer  of  seasoning  between  each  cucumber^ 
For  a  four-gallon  jar  of  pickles  this  seasoning  will  take  7  pounds  of 
sugar,  2  ounces  of  allspice,  half  ounce  of  cloves,  1  ounce  of  mace,  the 


PICKLES.  498 

same  each  of  pepper  and  celery  seed,  half  ounce  of  ginger,  half  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  and  1  pint  of  small  white  onions,  chopped.  Cover  all 
with  strong  vinegar,  tie  up  the  top  of  the  jar  securely,  and  place  on 
the  stove  in  a  large  pot  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  you  can  run 
a  straw  through  the  pickles  easily.  The  pickles  are  delicious  when 
finished. 

Mixed  Cucumber  Pickles.^Wash  and  drain.  Pack  alternate 
layers  of  small-sized  cucumbers  in  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  green 
tomatoes  and  common-sized  green  peppers.  Cover  with  a  boiling 
hot  brine  (proportions,  1  pint  of  coarse  salt  to  1  gallon  of  water). 
Let  stand  24  hours.  Drain,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  pour  over  them 
boiling  spiced  vinegar.  Add  a  few  roots  of  sliced  horseradish.  The 
mustard  pickle  can  also  be  used. 

Mustard  Pickle. — To  be  used  with  any  pickle.  One  ounce  each 
of  cloves,  allspice,  and  black  pepper ;  1  pound  ground  mustard,  three- 
quarters  pound  sugar,  1  gallon  vinegar.  Tie  the  spice  in  a  thin  cloth, 
and  boil  in  the  vinegar,  reserving  1  quart  of  it  to  mix  with  the  mus- 
tard. Take  out  the  spice  bags,  and  stir  in  the  mustard,  first  blending 
it  smoothly  with  the  cold  vinegar.  Pour  this  preparation  hot  over 
the  pickles.     Bottle,  and  cork  tightly. 

Quick  Cucumber  Pickles. — Cut  medium-sized  cucumbers  in 
strips.  Salt  well.  Leave  over  night ;  then  rinse  in  cold  water.  Pour 
boiling  vinegar  over  them  to  cover.     Set  away  to  cool. 

Brine  for  Cucumbers. — To  3  gallons  of  rain-water  put  2  of  yine* 
gar,  one-half  pound  of  alum,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
and  3  quarts  of  salt.  Pour  the  above  mixture  in  a  large  earthen  jar, 
and  as  the  small  cucumbers  are  gathered  and  washed  throw  them  in; 
they  may  remain  until  the  end  of  the  season,  when  all  can  be  pickled 
at  one  time,  and  are  sure  to  come  out  of  the  brine  fresh  and  crisp. 
The  same  brine  can  be  used  for  keeping  green  tomatoes  through  the 
winter. 

Spiced  Cucumbers. — ^Two  dozen  large  cucumbers  sliced  and 
boiled  in  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them  1  hour ;  set  them  aside  in 
the  hot  vinegar.  To  each  gallon  of  cold  vinegar,  allow  1  pound 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  ginge;,  1  tablespoon 
black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  celery  seed,  1  teaspoon  mace,  1  teaspoon 
allspice,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  scraped  horseradish,  1  table- 
spoon sliced  garlic,  one-half  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper.    Put  in  the 


498  FICKLES. 

cucumbers  and  stew  2  hours.     The  pickle  is  ready  for  use  as  soon  as 
cold. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. — To  make  green  tomato  pickles  slice  a 
peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  a  dozen  large  onions  and  pack  them  in  a 
jar  in  alternate  layers,  with  salt  between.  Let  them  stand  24  hours. 
Then  take  out  and  drain  off  the  brine.  Pack  in  jars  and  cover  with 
spiced  vinegar.  Pour  it  on  boiling  hot.  In  slicing  the  tomatoes 
reject  the  small  slice  at  stem  and  blossom  ends.  Some  cooks  use  the 
mustard  pickle  given  before.  Five  or  six  red-pepper  pods  are  a  nice 
addition. 

Spiced  Vinegar. — One  ounce  of  mace,  1  ounce  of  celery  seed,  1 
ounce  of  white  ginger  root,  1  table'spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon, 
1  large  cupful  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of  mustard  seed,  2 
tablespoonfuls  whole  black  pepper,  3  pints  of  vinegar.  Divide  the 
spices  in  three  portions,  aiid  put  each  in  a  small  muslin  bag.  Boil 
the  spices  in  the  vinegar  one-half  hour.  Then  stir  in  the  sugar  until 
thoroughly  melted.  If  the  pickles  are  put  in  small  jars,  put  one  of 
the  bags  in  each  jar.  If  in  a  large  one,  place  a  third  of  the  sliced 
tomatoes,  or  other,  pickle,  in  the  bottom  of  a  jar,  put  in  one  of  the  spice- 
bags,  and  pour  a  third  of  the  boiled  vinegar  over.  Then  another 
third  of  tomato,  bag  and  vinegar,  till  all  are  arranged.  Then  fill  the  jar 
with  cold  vinegar  till  the  pickle  is  covered,  using  more  than  the  three 
pints,  if  necessary.  Cover  securely  and  set  away  for  at  least  a  month 
before  using.  One  teacupful  of  grated  horseradish  is  very  nice  added 
to  this  vinegar. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickles. — Take  plum  tomatoes,  mixed  red  and  yel- "_ 
low.  Do  not  prick  th?m.  Let  them  lie  in  strongbrine  three  or  four  days ; 
put  them  down  in  layers  in  jars,  mixing  with  them  small  onions  and 
pieces  of  horseradish ;  pour  on  them  gold,  spiced  vinegar;  let  there 
be  a  small  spice-bag  to  put  into  every  jar;  coyer  them  carefully,  and 
let  them  set  a  whole  month  before  using ;  or,  pack  in  cans  and  seal  hot. 
Omit  the  onions.  If  large  tomatoes  are  used,  slice  iji  inch-thick 
slices,  before  soaking  in  brine,  4  large  onions  to  1  peck  of  tomatoes. 

Chopped  Ripe  Tomato  Pickles. — Peel  and  chop  fine  6  quarts  of 
ripe  tomatoes,  measured  after  they  are  chopped,  add  one-half  pint  of 
grated  horseradish,  1  quart  of  celery  finely  chopped,  1  cup  of  chopped 
onion,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  red  peppers,  1  cup  of  white 
mustard  seed,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  broiyn  sugar,  a  generous  cup  of  salt 


PICKLES.  497 

2  tablespoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cloyes  and 
mace,  2  quarts  of  vinegar ;  mix  together  and  put  in  a  jar.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place. 

Gauliflo-wer  Pickles. — ^Break  2  cauliflowers  into  small  bunches. 
Put  them  into  cold  w,ater  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Let  the  water 
heat  gradually.  Boil  the  cauliflowers  10  minutes,  then  drain  them  on 
cloths  or  a  hair  sieve  until  perfectly  dry,  and  then  place  them  in  glass 
jars.  Pour  over  them  boiling  hot  spiced  vinegar.  This  is  a  good 
formula :  One  ounce  of  mustard  seed,  2  ounces  of  celery  seed,  one- 
fourth  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  one- 
fourth  of  an  ounce  of  coriander  seed,  2  quarts  of  vinegar.  Boil  the 
spice  in  the  vinegar,  tying  it  up  in  small  bags.  Some  cooks  do  not 
boil  the  cauliflower,  but  pour  the  boiling  vinegar  over  it.  After  a 
week's  time,  pour  off,  scald  and  pour  back.  Repeat  this  several  times. 
Cauliflower  is  a  little  difficult  to  keep  unless  it  is  canned.  If  plain 
vinegar  is  used,  boil  some  whole  peppers  in  it.  Small  or  slightly  im- 
perfect heads  of  cauliflower  can  be  \used  fc^r  pickling. 

Cabbage  Pickle. — Slice  firm,  white  heads  of  cabbage;  pack  in 
layers  in  a  jar,  sprinkling  salt  between  each  layer.  Let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  pack  jn  a  jar,  sprinkling  grated 
horseradish  between  each  layer  and  celery  seed.  Cover  with'  scald- 
ing hot  spiced  vinegar.  After  six  days  pour  off"  the  vinegar,  scald 
and  pour  back.  If  necessary,  weight  the  cabbage  to  keep  under  the 
vinegar. 

Cabbagre  Mustard  Pickle. — Proceed  as  above,  and  when  in  the 
jar,  pour  over  it  the  mustard.  Pickle  before  given.  Mix  well.  This 
is  ready  for  use  when  cold. 

Philadelphia  Pepper  Cabbage. — Two  large,  firm  heads  of  white 
cabbage,  10  green  peppers,  2  red  peppers,  10  cents'  worth  of  whole 
yellow  mustard  seed,  1  teaspoonful  of  black  ground  pepper  and  1 
tablespoonful  of  salt.  Chop  the  cabbage  and  peppers  separately,  and 
very  fine,  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly  together.  Put  in 
earthen  crocks,  filling  to  within  two  inches  of  the  tops  and  cover  with 
best  vinegar.  i 

■  Pickled  MJan^oes  (Small,  G-reen  Muskmelons). — Select  green 
cantaloupe  melons,  about  the  size  of  a  pint  bowl ;  cut  out  one  lobe 
nicely,  and  carefully  scrape  out  the  seeds;  return  the  lobe,  and  tie  a 
str'ng  around  the  melon  to  keep  it  in  place.     Put  fifteen  of  these 

COOK— 32  -.      -     ' 


498  PICKLES. 

melons  in  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg ;  keep  them  well 
under  the  brine,  atid  let  them  remain  for  6  days.  Take  them  out  and 
let  them  soak  for  24  hours  in  fresh  water.  Remove  from  this  water,- 
wipe  dry,  and  fill  with  the  following  stuffing:  Make  a  filling  of 
chopped  cabbage,  chopped  greeft  tomatoes,  little  onions,  radish 
pods,  young  string  beans,  little  peppers,  tiny  green  cucumbers,  and 
chopped  horseraidish.  Any  or  all  of  these  may  be  used.  Spice 
with  mustard-seed,  a  few  corns,  and  a  clove  or  two  to  each  melon. 
Moisten  the  mixture  with  vinegar,  and  fill  each  melon  compactly. 
Ileplace  the  cut  section  and  tie  up  well  with  cotton  cord.  Pack  the 
melons  in  a  jar,  and  cover  with ,  the  following  pickle :  2  quarts 
of  cider  vinegar,  2  cupfuls  brown  sugar,  1  tablespooriful  cinnamon,  1 
tablespoonful  allspice,  1  teaspoonful  cloves.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil 
and  pour  over  the  melons.  Make  twice  the  quantity,  if  necessary,  or 
less,  according  to  the  amount  of  melons.  To  serve,  remove  the  cord 
and  Jay  the  cut  section  by  the  side,  in  the  pickle-dish.  Give  each 
persop  a  portion  of  the  melon  and  of  the  filling.  These  will  be  ready 
in  a  month.  ' 

Peach  Mangoes. — ^Take  4  quarts  of  large,  ripe,  free-stone 
peaches,  firm  to  the  touch.  Cut  open  carefully,  remove  the  stone, 
rub  off  the  "  fuzz,"  Lay  in  a  strong  brine.  Let  stand  over  night. 
Drain  and  rinse  in  cold  water,  wipe  dry,  being  careful  not  to  remove 
the  skin,  and  fill  the  cavities  with  the  following  mixture :  Mix  in  a 
bowl  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white  mustard-seed;  half-dozen  small 
onions,  chopped  fine ;  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish  root ;  1 
teaSpoonful  bruised  celery  seed.  Fill  the  cavities  in  the  peaches  with 
this  mixture,  tie  them  up  and  put  in  a  jar.  Put  in  a  preserving 
kettle  sufficient  cider  vinegar  to  cover  the  peaches,  to  which  add  24 
whole  cloves,  the  same  quantity  of  allspice,  and  half  an  ounce  of  stick 
cinnamon.  Stand  this  over  the  fire  and  bring  it  to  the  steaming 
point,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Take  it  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cold,  strain  it  over  the  peaches.  Omit  the  onions  if  not  liked.  Add 
1  tablespoon  horseradish,  and  put  in  each  peach  a  small  piece  of 
white  ginger-root.  Some  cooks  add  1  cupful  of  sugar  tp  the  vinegar. 
They  are  ready  for  use  in  a  week,  are  better  in  a  month,  and  good  as 
ever  in  five  years. 

Onion  Pickles. — Peel,  put  in  strong  brine  for  24  hours,  remove 
and  boil  in  milk  and  water  for  10  minutes,  (the  milk  helps  to  whiten 


PICKLES.  499 

them).  In  peeling,  leave  the  rpot  in  to  keep  the  o^iion  in  shape. 
Drain  well  and  place  them  in  a  jar,  pouring  on  scalding  hot  vinegar. 
If  spiced  pickles  be  desired,  place  half  a  pound  of  "  prepared  spices," 
suoh  as  may  be  procured  at  the  grocer's,  in  thin  bags,  and  steep  them 
into  the  vinegar  15  miniites.  •  But  if  the  whiteness  that  is  so  appetiz- 
ing in  pickled  onions  is  to  be  retained,  the  spices  must  be  omitted. 
As  the  onipns  are  placed  in  tl^e  jar,  distribute  sliced  red  pepper 
through  them.  These  pickles  present  a  very  attractive  appearance 
when  put  up  in  glass  jars  and  sealed  the  same  as-canned  fruit. 

Chow-chow  (Mustard). — A  mustard  chow-chow  is  made  of  3 
quarts  of  cucumbers,  2  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  2  quarts  of  cauli- 
flowers, 2  of  small  onions,  1  do?en  small  green  peppers,  and  half  a 
dozeii  red  peppers.  Cut  them  up'  and  let  all  stand  in  a  weak  brine 
over  night,  and  in  the  morning  drain  in  a  colander.  Then  scald  them 
in  vinegar  and  drain  again,  and  put  in  a  stone  jar.  Make  a  paste 
with  1  cup  of  flour,  1  pound  of  mustard,  1)4  pounds, of  sugar,  and  a 
generous  gallon  of  vinegar.  Put  in  a  kettle  and  boil,  stirring  often. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  1  ounce  of  turmeric,  1  ounce  of  white 
mustard  seed,  and  1  ounce  of  black  niustard  seed.  Pour  over  the 
vegetables  at  once  and  cover.  It  is  very  nice  to  can  these  pickles 
hot.  In  the  absence  of  cauliflower,  the  heart  and  white  portions  of  a 
firm  cabbage  may  be  used.  Shred  an  amount  equalling  2  quarts. 
Omit  beans,  if  hard  to  obtain.  One  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut 
-from  the  cob,  may  be  added.  .  \  • 

Mustard  Pickle. — One  quart  each  of  small  whole  cucumbers, 
large  cucumbers  sliced,  green  tomatoes  sliced_and  small  button  onions, 
1  large  cauliflower  divided  into  flowerets,  and  4  green  peppers  cut 
fine.  Make  a  brine  of  4  quarts  of  water  and  1  pint  of  salt ;  pour  it 
over  the  mixture  of  vegetables  and  let  it  soak  for  24  hours.  Heat 
just  enough  to  scald  it  and  turn  into  a  colander  to  drain.  Mix  1  cup 
of  flour,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard  and  1  tablespoonful  of 
turmeric  with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Then 
add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  enough  vinegar  to  make  2  quarts  in  all.  Boil 
this  mixture  until  it  thickens  and  is  smooth,  stirring  all  the  time ;  add 
the  vegetables  and  cook  until  well  heated  through. 

PiccaUm.— One-half  bushel  green  tomatoes,  chopped ;  2  heads 
of  cabbage,  chopped;  2  dozen  large  cucumbers,  chopped;  2  dozen 
large   green  peppers,  shredded;    2   dozen  large   onions,   chopped. 


500  ,  PICKLES. 

Sprinkle  1  pint  of  salt  over  and  through  this  mixture,  and  let  stand 
allnight.  A  sausage  mill  is  best  for  chopping  if  one  is  handy.  In 
the  morning  drain  through  a  colander,  or  turn  the  whole  mixture 
into  a  clean  flour  sack  and  press  as  dry  as  possible.  (In  xihopping- 
the  tomatoes  and  cucumbers  drain  off  as  much  juice  as  possible.) 
Put  in  a  large  pan,  and  mix  with  it  one-fourth  pound  black  mustard 
seed,  one-fourth  pound  white  mustard  seed,  1  ounce  of  celery,  or  4 
heads  of  celery  chopped  fine;  2  cupfuls  brown  sugar,  2  cupfuls  of 
grated  horseradish,  1  gallon  of  best  cider  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful 
each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Put  over  the  fire  ,and  let  cook  1  )^ 
hours  atler  it  begins  to  boil.  Cook  in  porcelain  kettle  or  stone  jar. 
It  is  better  to  divide  the  quantity  than  to  run  the  risk  of  scorching 
on  the  bottom.     This  pickle  may  be  made  without  the  cucumbers. 

Beet  Chow-chow. — One  gallon  of  chopped,  cooked  beets,  2 
quarts  of  finely-chopped  cabbage,  1  of  grated  horseradish,  1  of  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  wjth  vinegar, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.     This  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Pickled  String'  Beans. — Parboil  the  beans  in -slightly  salted 
water.  Drain  and  pack  in  cans.  Turn  over  them  hot  spiced  vinegar 
and-seal. 

Pickled  Sweet  Corn. — Those  who  try  this  pickle  once  are  sure 
to  try  it  again.  Chop  1  head  of  cabbage ;  sprinkle  ov$r  it  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  anfl  let  stand  over  night.  Cut  the  kernels-from  12 
ears  of  corn ;  chop  2  peppers  and  mix  with  the  cabbage.  Bring  a  half 
gallon  of  vinegar  to  a  boil ;  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  mustard ;  pour  over  the  corn  and  cabbage.  Smooth  the 
mustard  -in  a  little  cold  vinegar  before  putting  into  the  hot,  to  prevent 
lumps.  In  buying  mustard  use  care  to  get  the,  light-colored,  first 
grade,  as  dark  mustard  spoils  both  taste  and  looks. 

Cherry  Pickles. — Fill  cans  or  bottles  with  cherries  (ripe)  on  the 
stem.  Turn  over  them  cold  spiced  vinegar.  Mace,  nutmeg,  and 
coriander  seed  may  be  used.  Tie  up  in  a  thin  cloth  and  boil  in  the 
vinegar.    Paste  egg  paper  over  .the  bottles.    Do  not  use  for  six  weeks. 

Mushroom  Pickles. — Take  a  quart  of  button  mushrooms,  small 
and  firm.  Cut  off  the  stems,  and  rub  off  the  skins  with  a  piece  of 
flannel  dipped  in  salt.  Rinse  in  salt  and  water,  drain,  a,nd  dry  with  a 
cloth.  Put  a  quart  of  good  vinegar  in  a  preserving  kettle.  Spice  it 
to  suit  the  taste.    Tie  the  spices  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  and  boil  in 


PICKLES.  501 

the  vinegar.  One  ounce  of  bruised  ginger,  half  ounce  of  white  pep- 
per in  the  kernel,  half  ounce  mustard  seed,  1  nutmeg,  sliced  or  broken. 
Drop  the  mushrooms  in  the  boiling  vinegar,  and  boil  7  minutes. 
Skim  out,  and  pack  in  jars  or  bottles.  Bottles  with  corks  are  well 
suited  for  mushrooms,  one  small  bag  of  spices  going  into  each  bottle. 
In  case  the  spiced  vinegar  runs  short,  fill  the  vessel  with  cold  vinegar, 
so  as  to  cover  the  pickle. 

Beet  Pickles. — Cook  the  beets  until  tender,  and  cut  in  pieces  of 
an  even  size.  Boil  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  together  with  a 
blade  of  mace,  a  piece  of  ginger  root,  and  a  piece  of  horseradish,  and 
pour  over  the  beets  boiling  hot ;  when  cold,  cork  up.  If  to  be  kept 
long,  seal  hot,  with  egg  paper.  Cold  sliced  beets  may  be  kept  at 
least  2  months,  by  slicing  a  little  horseradish  in  the  vinegar.  A  little 
white  sugar  may  also  be  added. 

Pickled  Celery  Boots. — Trim  and  cut  the  Solid  white  roots  of 
celery  into  thick  slices.  Boil  in  salted  water  10  minutes.  Drain,  and 
pack  in  a  jar.  Pour  boiling  vinegar,  spiced  with  whole  peppercorns, 
over  them.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Pour  off,  mix  mustard  with  it,  and 
a  little  cayenne.  Heat  to  boiling,  and-  pour  back.  Cork,  and  paste 
over  with  egg  paper.     Root  celery  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Pickled  Peaches  and  Apricots. — Take  fruit  of  a  full  growth,  but 
perfectly  green ;  put  in  a  strong  brine.  When  they  have  been  in  a 
week,  remove,  wipe  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  lay  in  a  pickle  jar.  Put  to 
half  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  half  ounce  each  of  pepper,  sliced  ginger  root  and  mus- 
tard seed.  Boil  the  vinegar  with  the  spices  (tied  in  bits  of  thin  cloth), 
and  pour  over  the  peaches  boiling  hot.  Pour  off  the  vinegar  several 
times,  re-heat  and  turn  back. 

Vinegar. 

Apple  Ytaegat. — Excellent  vinegar  can  be  made  from  the  sound 
cores  and  parings  of  apples  used  in  cooking.  Put  in  a  jar,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  molasses  to  every  2  gallons ;  cover 
the  jar  with  netting;  add  more  parings  and  cores  occasionally.  Rinse 
dishes  that  have  held  honey  or  preserves,  and  pour  the  rinsings  in  the 
vinegar  jar.  If  a  little  apple  sauce  has  soured,  pour  water  over  it, 
and  after  a  few  days'  drain,  not  strain,  the  water  into  the  vinegar -Jar. 
Crabapple  cores  and  trimmings  are  an  addition.    Some  housewives 


502  PICKLES. 

add  the  cold  tea  left  froih'  meals  to  make  the  necessaf y  amount  of 
fluid.  Do  not  strain  the  vinegar  except  as  it  is  needed  for  use.  The 
sediment  that  is  left  after  pouring  it  off  from  the  parings  will  settle  to 
the  bottom.  In  making  any  kind  of  vinegar  it  hastens  the  process  to 
put  in  a  piece  of  "  mother"  from  old  ^dnegar.  Some  put  in  brown 
sugar,  a  piece  of  brown  paper  soaked  in  molasses,  or  a  piece  of  bread 
soaked  in  yeast. 

Honey  Vinegar. — One  quart  of  honey  (clear)  to  8  quarts  of  water. 
After  feripentation  a  fine,  white  vinegar  will  result.  Many  make 
honey  vinegar  from  the  trimmings  and  rinsings  in  preparing  honey 
for  the  market.     It  makes  good  vinegar. 

Potato  Vinegar. — One  gallon  of  water  in  which  potatoes  have 
been  boiled,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  three-qufirters 
of  a  cup  of  hop  yeast.  In  a  month  clear  good  vinegar  will  result. 
Put  in  an  earthen  jar  to  ferment. 

Celery  Vinegar. — A  teacupful  of  celery-seed  in  a  quart  of  vinegar. 
Prepare  as  above. '  This  is  a  delicious  seasoning  for  many  dishes. 

Savory  Vinegar. — Equal  parts  of  tarragon,  chives,  a  green  chili,  a 
clove  or  2,  and  the  thinlyr-pared  rind  of  a  lemon  added  to  the  quart  of 
plain  vinegar  as  before.     These  flavored  vinegars  improve  any  salad. 

Onion  Vinegar. — Six  large  onions,  1  tablespoon  ipf  salt,  1  table- 
spoon, of  white  sugar,  1  quart  best  vinegar.  Chop  the  onions,  strew 
on  the  salt,  and  let  £hem  stand  5  or  6  hours;  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  vitiegar,  scald  the  vinegar,  pour  it  over  the  onions,  put  them  in  a 
jar,  cover  tight,  and  leave  for  a  fortnight.     Then  strain  and  bottle. 

Sweet  Rckles.  -^ 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches.— A  quart  of  vinegar,  4  pounds  of  sugar, 
an  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon  and  half  an  ounce  of  whole  cloves  to  7 
pounds  of  prepared  fruit.  Tie  the  spices  in  muslin  bags;  let  the 
sugar  and  vinegar  come  to  a  boil ;  skim ;  put  in  the  fruit ;  a  little  at 
a  time  •  cook  till  soft.  Skim  out  the  fruit  into '  jars  or  cans,  boil  the 
syrup  15  minutes,  pour  over  the  fruit  and  seal.  The  above  prc^of- 
tion  is  equally  good  for  pears,  plums,  sweet  apples  and  quinces.  Put 
the  spices  into  the  vinegar  with  the  sugar.  Some  cooks  stick  a  few 
cloves  into  each  peach.  If  this  is  not  done,  prick  each  peach  a  few 
times.  This  prevents  the  skin  from  loosening.  The  peaches  should 
be  ripe  and  firm ;  wipe  them  with  a  coarse  cloth. 


PICKLES.  503 

Peach  Mangoes. — ^Take  sound,  ripe,  free-stone  peaches ;  wipe, 
si>It  and  remove  the  pits.  Fill  the  cavities  \irith  finely  chopped  to- 
matoes, grated  horseradish  an4  mustard  seed.  Put  the  halves  to- 
gether; tie  each  one.  Pack  in  a  jar,  and  cover  with  boiling  syrup, 
made  of  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar  to  1  quart  of  vinegar.    Seal. 

Spiced  Peaches. — Pare,  stone  and  halve  9  pounds  of  peaches. 
Add  4  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves 
(whole  cloves),  3  or  4  sticks  of  cinnamon  and  mace.  Let  it  boil 
one-half  hour,  or  less  rf  they  grow  too  soft. 

Pickled  PeSiTS. — Use  half  as  much  sugar  as  you  have  fruit.  Pare 
the  fruit,  leaving  on  the  stems.  Good  brown  sugar  is  richer  than 
white.  To  8  pounds  of  fruit,  1  quart  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  mixed 
lyhole  spice,  allspice,  cloves,  stick  cinnamon,  a  very  little  mace  and 
some  cassia  buds.  Do  not  use  as  much  of  the  cloves  as  of  the  others. 
Tie  the  spices  in  one  or  more  bags ;  boil  them  in  the  vinegar  and 
sugar.  Skim  well,  and  then  add  the  fruit ;  boil  till  scalded  and  tender. 
Skim  out  the  fruit,  and  pack  carefully  in  stone  jars;  boil  the  syrup  5 
minntes  longer,  then  pour  over  the  fruit.  The  next  d^y  pour  off  the 
syrup,  boil  again  and  pour  again  on  the  fruit.  Do  this  for  three  suc- 
cessive days.  Keep  the  t>ags  of  spice  in  the  syrup,  and  lay  One  on 
top  of  each  jar  of  fruit.  For  those  who  do  not  care  for  very  sweet 
spiced  fruits,  the  proportions  may  be  4  pounds  of  sugar  to  10  pounds 
of  fruit.  Delicious  with  all  kinds  of  cold  meats.  Seckel  pears  are 
nice  prepared  in  this  way. 

Pickled  Atiples. — Scald  together  1  quart  vinegar  (half  water  if 
very  strong),  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  2  ounces  stick  cinnamon ;  add  7 
pounds  of  |)ared  apples,  with  4  cloves  stuck  in  each  apple,  and  sim- 
mer very  gently  until  tender.  Large  crabapples  may  be  used  in  this 
way,  but  russet  apples  are  best ;  they  are  excellent  in  the  early  spring. 
When  the  apples  are  all  cooked,  boil  the  syrup  5  minutes  longer, 
and  pour  over  the  fruit.     Leave  in  the  spices. 

Sweet  Pickled  Citron. — Seven  pounds  of  fruit,  2  pounds  of  sugar, 
1  quart  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  whole  cloves,  allspice  and  a  stick 
of  cinqamon ;  boil  the  fruit  in  2  quarts  of  water  and  a  small  piece  of 
alum  until  soft,  pour  off  the  water,  boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  to- 
gether 20  minutes,  drop  the  fruit  in  and  let  it  simmer  1  hour.  Seal 
up  hot.  If  put  in  large  jars  unsealed,  pour  off  the  vinegar  sever*' 
times,  scald  and  pour  back  on  the  fruit. 


504  PICKLES. 

Pickled  Siberian  Crabapples. — Leave  on  the  stems,  but  retiiuve 
the  blossom  end.  Select  large,  perfect  fruit.  Take  6  pounds,  of  the 
fruit.  Steam  in  a  steamer  until  tender.  Make  ia  syrup  of  3  pounds 
of  sugar,  1}4  pints  of  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  one-fourth 
ounce  of  whole  cloves.  Boil  it  10  minutes,  and  skim.  Put  in  the 
apples,  and  boil  6  or  10  minutes,  but  not  enough  to  break,  and  can  at 
,  once.  Some  prefer  to  omit  the  spices,  and  simply  use  the  syrup  of 
sugar  and  vinegar. 

Pickled  Watermelon  (Sweet). — Use  for  these  the  rind  of  a  good- 
sized  watermelon.  Pare  and  cut  into  thick  slices  and  then  in  dice  or 
fancy  shapes.  Boil  1  ounce  of  alum  in  a  gallon  of  water  and  pour 
over  the  sliced  melon,  letting  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for 
'  half  a  day.  Remove  from  the  alum  water  and  let  it  lie  in  cold  water 
until  cold ;  drain.  Have  ready  a  quEtrt  of  vinegar,  3  pounds  of  sugar, 
an  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon  and  half  an  ounce  of  cloves.  Boil  sugar 
arid  vinegar ;  strain ;  add  the  spices  and  rind,  and  boil  until  the  rind 
is  soft  and  clear.  Seal  up  in  jars  hot,  though  they  will  keep  without. 
They  can  be  used  in  three  weeks.  If  left  unsealed,  turn  off  the  syrup 
several  times  in  the  first  week,  scald  and  pour  back  hot  on  the  fruit. 

Sweet  Pickled  Muskmelon.— Select  cantaloupes  or  muskmelons 
not  quite  ripe.  Cut  into  oblong  pieces,  and  remove  the  rind  and  soft 
part  near  the  seeds.  Prepare  the  spiced  pickle  in  the  following  pro- 
portions: To  every  8  pounds  of  melon,  take  1  pint  of  vinegar  and  3 
pounds  of  sugar.  Mix  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  mace  and 
cloves,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  allspice  and  cinnamon.  Tie  this 
mixture  into  a  small  piece  of  cheesecloth,  and  boil  it  with  the  vine- 
gar. Cook  the  melon  carefully  in  the  hot  syrup  until  tender,  then 
skim  out  into  a  large- bowl.  Boil  the  liquor  down,  and  pour  it  over 
the  fruit.  Repeat  this  3  or  4  times,  and  the  last  time  heat  all  to- 
gether, then  put  into  jars  and  seal.  This  pickle  will  keep  without 
sealing.  Or  make  precisely  like  Pickled  Watermelon  Rind. 
1  Kipe  Cucumber  Pickles  (Sweet). — Peel  large,  ripe  cucumbers ; 
cut  in  quarters  lengthwise,  remove  the  seeds  and  juicy  pulp,  and  let 
them  stand  over  night  in  a  weak  brine.  In  the  morning  drain  and 
scald  slightly  in  clear  water,  then  cook  until  clear  in  a  syrup  made  as 
follows  :  To  every  10  pounds  ^f  cucumbers  use  4  pounds  of  sugar,  a 
quart  of  vinegar,  and  a  tablespoon"  each  of  whole  cinnamon,  mace 
and  cloves.    Put  the  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  a  teacupful 


PICKLES.  /    60S 

of  hot  water ;  let  it  boil  up,  skim,  and  add  the  vinegar  and  the  spices, 
the  latter  in  a  little  cheesecloth  bag.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover 
with  the  syrup  boiled  down  quite  thick. 

Green  Cucumber  Pickles  (Sweet). — Large,  green  cucumbers 
can  be  pared,  seeded,  cut  in  narrow  strips,  soaked  in  salt  water  and 
pickled  same  way  as  ripe  cucumbers. 

Pickled  Plums. — Take  7  pounds  of  plums,  pour  over  them  a  pint 
of  hot  water,  cover  closely  and  steam  till  tender.  Then  add  a  pint  of 
good  vinegar,  4  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
cinnsimon,  allspice  and  cloves,  with  two-thirds  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne.  Cover  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  when  they  are  ready 
for  the  cans.  Before  serving  on  the  pickle  dish  reinove  the  pits.  If 
not  sealed,  heat  the  syrup  three  successive  mornings  and  pour  back 
on  the  plums. 

Pickled  Blackberries. — Make  a  syrup  of  3  pounds  of  sugar  and 
a  pint  of  vinegar,  bringing  it  to  a  boil.  Drop  in  the  berries  and  cook 
till  they  are  tender ;  then  seal  in  jars ;  no  spices  being  required. 

Pickled  Berries. — Berries  of  any  kind  can  be  pickled  in  the 
same  way. 

Spiced  Blackberries. — Spiced  blackberries  are  made  very  much 
like  spiced  currants.  To  7  pounds  of  fruit  allow  half  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar and  half  a  pint  of  blackberry  juice,  S}4  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar,  an  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce -of  cloves  and 
an  ounce  of  powdered  allspice.  Let  this  preparation.cook  steadily  for 
about  an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half  until  it  is  thoroughly  reduced. 

Spiced  Berries. — Spiced  berries  of  any  kind — raspberries,  cran- 
berries, currants,  etc.,  can  be  made  same  as  Spiced  Blackberries. 

Spiced  Grapes. — Grapes  make  an  excellpnt  spiced  fruit.  To 
prepare  them,  pick  from  the  stems  7  pounds  of  the  ripe  grapes  and 
separate  the  pulp  from  the  skins.  Put  the  skins  into  a  preserving 
kettle  over  the  fire,  with  enough  water  to  prevent  them  from  burn-' 
ing.  In  another  kettle  place  the  pulp,  and  cook  until  it  will  press 
easily  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds.  Add  the  strained  pulp 
to  the  skins,  with  half  a  pint  of  sharp  vinegar  and  1  ounce  each  of 
whole  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon.  Boil  together  until  it  is  thick, 
and  put  into  jelly  glasses. 

Pickled  Quinces  (Sweet). — Pare  and  core  the  quinces  and  cut 
into  eighths ;  to  7  pounds  of  the  fruit  allow  4  pounds  of  sugar,  a  hall 


506  PICKLES. 

ounce  of  ginger-root,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  allspice,  the  same  of 
ground  cinnamon,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  mace.  Mix  the  spices  and 
divide  into  four  parts ;  put  each  part  in  a  small  square  of  muslin,  tie 
tightly,  allowing  room  for  the  spices  to  swell.  Put  the  sugar  and 
vinegar  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  add  the  spices  and  the  ginger- 
root  scraped  and  cut  into  slices.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the 
quinces.  Take  at  once  from  the  fire  and  stand  aside  in  a  cool  place 
until  the  next  day.  Then  drain  off  the  liquor  from  the  quinces,  bring 
it  again  to'the  boil,  pour  it  back  over  the  quinces  and  let  all  remain  till 
the  following  day.  Repeat  the  operation  several  times,  and  the  last 
day  boil  the  quinces  until  tender.  Then  the  liquor  must  be  boiled 
down,  until  it  forms  a  thick  syrup;  with  this  just-cover  the  fruit,  put 
in  jars  and  tie  up  for  keeping. 

Pickled  Cherries.^Pick  over  the  cherries  carefully,  put  in  a  jar 
and  pour  over  them  hot  spiced  vinegar,  made  in  the  proportion  of  1 
pound  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  vinegar  and  2  or  3  sticks  of  cinnamon. 
Boil,  skim  and  pour  over  the  fruit,  which  it  should  cover.  Let  stand 
a  few  days,  pour  off  the  vinegar  and  scald.  Pour  bjack  boiling  hot,, 
seal  at  once,  or  let  cool  and  simply  tie  closely. 

Sweet  Beet  Pickle. — Boil  and  slice,  or  cut  in  dice.  Pour  over 
them  a  hot,  sweet  pickle,  made  in  the  following  proportions:  One 
pound  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Tie  spice  in  a  cloth.  Pour  over  beets  hot. 
If  to  be  kept,  can  at  once. 

Pickled  Cabbage  (Sweet). — Pickle  in  the  same  manner  as  toma- 
toes. ,  Use  either  red  or  white,  slice  thinly,  do  not  steam,  simply  pack 
in  jars  after  draining  free  from  salt,  and  pour  the  boiling  spiced  vine- 
gar over. 

Mixed  Sweet  Pickles. — Slice  tomatoes  (green)  and  cabbage. 
•Red  cabbage  will  give  the  whole  pickle  a  beautiful  color.  Pack  in 
salt  (pack  separately) ;  drain  in  the  morning,  strain  the  tomatoes,  and 
pack  cabbage  and  tomatoes  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  them  the  hot  spiced 
vinegar,  given  in  rule  for  tomatoes.  Press  down  with  a  plate ;  1 
^quart  of  vinegar,  etc.,  to  10  pounds  of  the  mixed  pickles. 


So  MANY  housekeepers  are  possessed  with  the 
idea  that  the  preparation  of  ices  and  ice  cream  entails 
unhmited  trouble  and  expense,  that  many  families  are 
needlessly  deprived  of  these  most  refreshing  hot  wea- 
ther dainties. 

To  begin  with,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  a  regular 
freezer  is  not  an  absolute  necessity.  Of  course,  it  renders  the  prepa- 
ration of  sherbet  and  ice  cream  much  easier,  but  a  tin  bucket  with 
tight  fitting  cover  Vill  answer  all  purposes,  by  placing  it  inside  a 
wooden  water  bucket,  and  packing  tightly  around  with  ice  and  sdlt, 
in  the  proportion  of  one-fourth  salt  to  three-fourths  ice.  In  the 
absence  of  ice,  a  mixture  of  snow  and  salt  will  serve  equally  well. 

Most  people  make  the  mistake  of  trying  to  freeze  their  materials 
with  ite  broken  into  any  and  every  size.  It  needs  to  be  fine,  almost 
as  fine  as  the  salt.  If  one  has  not  a  shaver  for  ice  such  as  the  ice- 
men use  in  making  fine'  ice,  lay  the  ice  in  a  stout  piece  of  crash,  and 
smash  it  up  on  something  solid,  using  a  heavy  hammer.  You  can 
break  the  ice  by  pressing  a  hat-pin  into  it,  as  the  trained  nurse  does 
in  the  sick  room.  The,  finer  your  ice  is  broken,  the  sooner  the  cream 
will  freeze.  The  ice  in  melting  gives  off  heat,  and  many  degrees 
colder  is  the  melted  ice  and  salt  than  the  ice  itself.  Alternate  the 
salt  and  ice  in  packing,  and  cover  the  top  with  a  newspaper  to  keep 
the  air  off,  and  prevent  melting  the  ice  where  it  will  do  no  good. 
Pour  the  cream  into  the  pail,  cover,  then  turn  the  pail  by  the  hand 
round  and  round  in  the  ice  for  a  few  moments.  Take  off  the  cover 
from  the  can,  and  with  a,  spoon  detach  any  of  the  cream  which  may 
have  frozen  to  the  side.  Again  put  on  the  cover,  continue  to  turn  the 
handle,  repeating  from  time  to  time  the  operation  thus  described,  press- 
ing the  cream  down  with  a  stout  spoon  to  make  it  thoroughly  smooth. 
Colors  for  Creams  and  Ices. — In  the  making  of  sherbets  and 
creams,  both  artistic  taste  and  prudence  are  required  in  the  matter  ol 


508  ICES  AND   ICE  CREAM. 

colorings.  Here  are  some  excellent  suggestions  for  preparing  pure 
vegetable  tints  that  can  be  compounded  at  home,  and  are,  therefore, 
dermoid  of  all  injurious  substances. 

For  amber,  4  ounces  deodorized  alcohol,  1  ounce  turmeric.  Shake 
till  dissolved ;  strain,  and  bottle.  It  gives  a  bright  gold  color.  Blue 
can  be  made  by  rubbitig  a  piece  of  indigo  on  a  plate  with  a  little 
water  until  the  required  shade  is  obtained.  Carmine  has  always  a 
charming  effect.  Use  1  pint  of  water,  half  ounce  of  carmine,  three- 
quarters  ounce  of  aqua  ammonia,  F.  F.  F.,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rosewater. 
Put  the  carmine  and  ammonia,  with  a  gill  of  water,  into  a  bottle,  shake 
till  dissoJ  ved,  add  the  rest  of  the  water,  and  let'  it  stand  a  day  or  two 
to  settle.  Pour  off  the  clear,  liquid,  add  the  rosewater,  and  keep 
tightly  corked.    ~ 

For  pistachio  creams  take  spinach;  the  green  color,  or  juice,  can 
be  prepared  as  follows :  Wash  the  leaves,  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and 
pound  them  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp.  Wring  it  through  a  strong  mus- 
lin cloth  as  hard  as  possible,  pound  the  pulp  agam  with  a  very  little 
water,  wring  it  once  more,  and  cook  the  juice  in  a  farina  boiler  until 
it  thickens  like  jelly.  Drain  it  on  a  fine  hair  sieve,  and  cut  the  pulp 
through  with  a  spoon  upon  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  dry  it  to  a  thick 
paste.  Add  an  equal  bulk  of  pulverized  sugar,  work  smooth,  and 
bottle  for  use.  There  are,  also,  perfectly  harmless  color  pastes,  that 
can  be  purchased  in  large  towns. 

Si^macli  Greenv-=-Cook  a  peck  of  spinach  in  about  a  pint  of  water 
for  10  minutes,  covering  the  pot  it  is  in  closely,  then  drain  it  and  take 
it  up.  Lay  it  in  a  coarse  cloth  in  a  wooden  bowl,  and  mash  and 
pound  it  thoroughly ;  then  wring  it  in  a  cloth  to  extract  every  particle 
of  juice  that  can  be  taken  from  it.  A  small  quantity  of  this  will  give 
a  perceptible  green  color  to  dishes  in  which  it  is  used. 

Cochineal  Coloringr- — The  cochineal  coloring  is  made  by  taking 
an  ounce  of  cochineal,  1  ounce  of  cream  tartar,  2  drams  of  alum,  and 
half  a  pint  of  water,  and  boil  all,  except  the  alum,  together  until  they 
are  reduced  ^o  one-half.  Then  add  the  alum,  and  strain  the  mixture, 
and  put  it  away  in  bottles  for  use.  A  few  drops  will  color  a  consi- 
derable quantity,  so  the  best  way  to  use  it  is  to  take  a  drop  at  a  time, 
till  you  have  a  deep-enough  color. 

Packing  Ice  Cream. — Pack  and  freeze  in  the  usual  way,  then  as 
soon  as  frozen  pack  in  newspapers  all  around,  instead  of  putting  in 


ICES  AND   ICE  CREAM.  509 

any  more  salt  and  ice ;  the  newspapers  will  keep  the  ice  already  left 
in  after  freezing.  This  is  a  great  saving  of  ice  and  keeps  the  cream 
frozpn  longer  than  any  other  way. 

Ice  Cream  Without  Ice. — Nitrate  of  ammonia  can  be  used  for  - 
freezing  instead  of  ice  and  salt  by  mixing,  if  a  small  freezer  be  used, 
7  pounds  of  nitrate  with  3  quarts  of  water.  The  freezer  is  then  ro- 
tated, and  the  cream  or  water  is  quickly  frozen,  provided  the  material 
is  first  cooled  down  before  applying  the  nitrate.  The  nitrate  can  be 
recovered  for  further  use  by  evaporating  the  solution  to  dryness. 

Moulding  Ice  Grieaui. — If  you  wish  to  mould  ice  cream  or  serve 
it  in  forms,  have  your  mould  ready  at  the  time  you  remove  the  dasher 
from  the  can,  and  also  have  ready  a  tub  or      ,^:^^CT°'^fev 
bucket  containing  a  mixture  of  coarse  ice  (^'^SiililllllMLSli.^ 
and  salt.     Moisten   the   mould  with   cold  ^Jl^^^^^P^ll 

water,  then  fill  it  quickly  with  ice  cream,    A|{2^SS|i|Mf    l 

pressing  it  down  with  a  spoon  to  fill  every   fi||^PpBiijJM|    **^ 
part  of  the  mould.     Lay  a  piece  of  wax   ^^sB^^HH' 
paper  over  the  cream  large  enough  to  pro-     tB^^^HS^Ki 
ject  beyond  the  edges  when  the '  lid  ^is  on ;    vH|l|IIHl|^^F 
put  on  the  lid  and  imbed  the  mould  in  the      "^m^HHB^^ 
tub  of  ice  and  salt ;    cover  with   a  piece  of     Ice  Cream  Freezer, 
carpet  and  stand  aside  for  1  or  2  hours.    When  ready  to  use,  lift 
the  mould  from  the  ice,  wipe  it  carefully,  plunge  it  into  a  pan  of 
warm  water,  remove  the  lid  and  paper,  and  turn   the  mould  out 
carefully  on  a  napkin  placed  on  a  pretty  dish.     If  it  should  stick 
to  the  mould,  wait  for  a  moment,  as  the  heat  of  the  room  will,  as 
a  rule,  loosen   it.     Serve  it  in  slices,  unless  it  has  been  previously 
moulded  in  individual  moulds. 

Moulds  for  Creams.— Individual  moulds  can  be  had  in  every 
possible  shape,  from  cooing  doves  to  full-blown  roses,  and  beautiful, 
indeed,  is  the  effect;  but  their  price  seems  exorbitant  to  the  house- 
wife.    One  quart  of  cream  will  fill  10  pieces. 

The  bleeding  heart  is  another  favorite.  The  heart  is  colored  with 
carmine,  and  an  arrow  runs  through  it.  This  beautiful  affair  can  be 
used  for  an  engagement  luncheon.  At  a  smart  dinner,  ices  in  the 
shape  of  roses  are  piled  high  in  a  gilt  basket,  and  one  served  to  each 
guest,  For  a  supper  the  candle  is  a  unique  addition  well  worth  men- 
tioning.   The  candlesticks  were  made  of  differejit  colored  creams. 


510  ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM. 

the  candle  itself  being  white.  At  the  top  was  placed  a  small  taper, 
which  was  lit  as  each  guest  was  served.  At  a  luncheon  given  to  a 
debutante  flowers  were  the  artistic  scheme.  At  each  cover  was  a  dif- 
ferent flower.  The  roses  were  frozen  in  yellow  and  red,  pale  pink 
and  blush.  The  stem  and  leaves  were  of  artificial  make,  and  the 
effect  can  be  imagined.  Tulips  and  small  sunflowers  are  treated  in 
like  manner.  For  lilies  of  the  valley,  the  le^f  above  is  frozen,  and  in 
the  middle  of  it,  just  before  the  time  for  serving,  are  placed  the  deli- 
cate blossoms. 

Tutti-Frutti  Flayoring. — The  most  delicious  flavoring  imagin- 
able for  ices  is  made  in  this  way.  When  the  strawberries  are  ripe, 
take  a  qu^rt  of  brandy,  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pound  of  berries  and 
put  them  all  into  a  2-gallon  jar.  Then  as  the  raspberries  and  cur- 
rants, cherries,  blackberries,  grapes,  peaches,  apricots  and  other  fruits 
come  in  their  season,  ladd  to  the  contents  of  the  jar,  allowing  to  every 
pound  of  fruit  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  No  more  brandy 
will  be  necessary.  The  one  precaution  to  be  taken  is  that  the  fruit 
must  be  stirred  every  day  with  a  long-handled  spoon  in  order  to  keep 
it  from  spoiling.  This  is  only  necessary  during  the  hot  weather,  but 
it  is  a  thing  that  must  not  be  neglected.  Alcohol  may  be  used  instead 
of  brandy ;  1  pint. 

Ice  Oream. 

"Easy"  Cream. — One  quart  of  new  milk,  1  quart  of  sweet 
cream,  1  pint  of  powdered  or  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  whites  of, 

beaten  stiff)  1  large  spoonful  of  va- 
nilla. Place  on  ice  until  thoroughly 
cold,  and  freeze.  Excellent,  and  very 
easily  prepared. 

Easy  Cream  Without  Eggs. — 
'  Place  the  can  in  the  freezer,  pack  with 
two  parts  pounded  ice  and  one  of 
salt.  Pour  1  quart  of  cream  and  l^inl 
of  milk  into  the  can.  Into  1  level  cup 
of  sugar  stir  2  teaspoonfuls  of  va- 
loe  Shredder.  nilla;  add  this  to  the  cream,  close 

the  tan,  turn  the  crank  slowly,  increasing  the  speed  as  the  cream 
hardens.  When  ft  turns  with  difficulty,  remove  beater,  stir  up  con- 
tents with  a  spoon,  cover,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  2  hours. 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM.  611 

Ice  Cream  With  £ggs. — Four  eggs,  2  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  1 
quart  of  cream,  1  pint  of  sugar,  flavoring.  Beat  the  yolks  into  a  foam, 
adding  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  dissolved ;  add  sweet  milk  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Heat  until  at  the  boil- 
ing point,  renlove  from  the  stove,  and  set  away  until  perfectly  cold. 
Add  the  cream,  whipped  stiff,  to  the  mixture,  flavor,  and  freeze. 

Ice  Cream  Without  Sgr^s. — Two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  1^ 
pounds  of  powdered  or.  granulated  sugar,  1  quart  of  cream,  half  tea- 
cupful  of  cornstarch  or  1  scant  teacupful  of  flour,  lemon  or  vanilla 
flavoring.  Take  3  pints  of  milk,  put  on  to  boil  in  a  tin  pail  inside  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  mix  the  cornstarch  or  flour  in  the  remaining 
pint  of  milk  until  smooth,  dissolve  in  it  the  sugar,  and  stir  carefully 
into  the  boiling  milk ;  when  thick,  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain. 
When  cold,  flavor  to  taste,  add  the  cream,  and  freeze. 

Vaiulla  Ice  Cream. — Put  in  a  saucepan,  over  the  fire,  1  quart  of 
milk,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  extract 
of  vanilla  and  8  yolks  of  eggs ;  stir  with  an  egg  beater,  and  when  be- 
^ginning  to  thicken  without  boiling,  strain  the  mixture  and  allow  it 
to  become  cold.  Place  it  in  a  freezer,  arid  keep  it  in  a  frozen  state 
until  time  for  serving. 

Snow  Cream. — If  made  with  dry  and  soft  snow  it  is  equal  to  ice 
cream,  and  is  made  in  a  few  minutes.  One  egg,  half  cup  of  sweet 
milk  or  sweet  cream,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Stir  in  enough  snow 
to  make  it  stiff.  Dry  snow  is  the  thing  to  use.  It  can  be  made 
without  the  egg. 

Frozen  Custard. — Put  a  quart  of  milk  on  the  fire  to  heat.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  with  a  teacupful  of  sugar,  and  stir  into  the  milk. 
Let  come  to  a  boil,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  pint  of  very  rich  milk 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  then  turn 
into  a  freezer  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. — Squeeze  the  juice  from  6  lemons,  thicken 
with  white  sugar,  add  very  carefully  3  pints  of  sweet  cream,  freeze 
hard. 

Pried  Ice  Cream. — A  small,  solid  cake  of  the  cream  is  enveloped 
in  a  thin  sheet  of  pie  crust,  and  then  dipped  in  boiling  lard  or 
butter  long  enough  to  cook  the  outside  to  a  crisp.  Served  immedi- 
ately, the  ice  cream  is  found  to  be  as  solidly  frozen  as  when  it  was 
first  prepared.    The  process  of  frying  is  so  quickly  accomplished,  and 


512  ICES  AND   ICE  CREAM. 

the  pastry  is  so  good  a  protector,  that  the  hea£  has  no  chance  to 
reach  the  frozen  cream.     It  is  pronounced  delicious. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream. — Put  in  a  saucepanjon  the  fire  1^  pints  milk, 
the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  14  ounces  of  sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  very  strong 
black  coffee.  Stir  well  with  an  egg  beater,  and  when  beginning  to 
thicken,  without  boiling,  strain  your  mixture  and  allow  it  to  become 
cold,  and  freeze  as  vanilla  ice  cream.  ^ 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — One  quart  of  sweet  cream,  half  a  pound  ^ 
of  granulated  sugar,  2  ounces  of  chocolate  melted  over  boiling  water 
and  stirred  in  slowly,  1  ^  teaspoons  of  vanilla:     Freeze. 

Chocolate  Moss. — One  quart  of  sweet  cream,  sweetened,  flavored, 
and  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth ;  drain  it ;  have  2  squares  of  chocolate 
melting  in  a  basin ;  set  in  hot  water ;  stir  carefully  into  the  whipped 
cream,  and  put  all  into  a  pail  or  freezer,  and  freeze  without  stirring. 
When  wanted  for  the  table,  wet  a  cloth  in  hot  water,  wrap  around 
the  pail  until  the  cream  slides  out.  Slice  and  serve.  It  looks  like 
moss,  and  is  delicious.     Make  in  the  morning  and  serve  for  tea. 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream. — Tp  a  pijit  each  of  milk  and  cream,  allow 
half  pound  of  pistachio  nuts,  quarter  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  a  cup 
of  sugar,  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Blanch  the  nuts  and  pound  to  a 
paste ;  bring  the  milk  and  cream  to  boiling ;  remove  from  fire,  stir  in 
the  nuts,  lemon  juice,  and  sugar,  and  endugh  spinach  coloring  to  tint 
the  whole  a  light,  dainty  green.     When  cold,  freeze. 

Chestnut  Ice  Cream. — To  make  this  delicious  ice  cream  use  2 
quarts  of  cream,  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  an 
orange^  a  cupful  of  water,  a  gill  of  wine- (the  wine  can  be  omitted  and 
the  juice  of  another  orange  used  instead),  and  30  French  chestnuts. 
Shell  and  blanch  the  chestnuts,  cover  them  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  off  the  water,  pound  the  chestnuts  in  a 
mortar,  and  then  rub  them  through  a  puree  sieve.  Put  the  sugar, 
grated  orange  rind  and  water  in  a  stewpan  and  place  on  the  fife. 
Boil  for  20  minutes,  add  the  chestnut  puree,  and  cook  for  6  minutes 
longer.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  orange  juice  and  wine. 
When  cold,  a,dd  the  cream  and  freeze. 

White  Cherry  Ice  Cream. — Put  2  ^ups  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of 
water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
and  let  the  syrup  come  to  a  boil.  Drop  in  carefully  1  quart  of  Cali- 
fornia white  wax  cherries,  and  simmer  gently  15  minutes,  strain 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM.  613 

carefully,  add  a  quart  of  cream  to  the  syrup,  and  freeze.  When  it 
begins  to  turn  hard,  beat  well,  take  out  the  dasher  and  stir  in  the 
fruit.     Pack  and  let  stand  for  two  or  three  hours  to  ripen. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. — Three  pints  of  cream,  1  pint  milk,  2 
ripe  pineapples,  2  pounds  sugar ;  slice  pineapples  thin,  scatter  sugar 
over  them,  and  let  stand  3  hours.  Cut  or  chop  the  fruit  into  the 
syrup  and  strain.  Beat  gradually  into  the  cream,  and  freeze.  Re- 
move a  few  bits  of  pineapple,  and  stir  in  cream  when  half  frozen,' 
Peach  ice  cream  made  in  the  same  way  is  delicious., 

Carabael  Ice  Cream. — ^AUow,  to  a  quart  of  cream  and  a  pint  of 
milk,  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  and  white  of  1  egg.  Place  one- 
fourth  pound  of  the  sugar  in  a  pan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  until  it  be- 
comes liquid  and  turns  dark  brown.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling  (and 
one-half  the  cream),  pour  in  the  burnt  sugar  and  stir  a  few  minutes. 
When  cold  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Mix 
well  and  freeze.  When  half  frozen,  add  the  remaining  pint  of  cream, 
well  whipped,  and  the  white  of  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  finish  freez- 
ing. In  all  cases  where  a  freezer  is  used,  the  beater  should  be  turned 
rather  slowly  at  first,  until  the  cream  begins  to  congeal,  and  then 
quite  rapidly,  until  the  cream  is  so  stiff  that  the  beater  can  no  longer 
be  turned,  when  all  salt  should  be  carefully  wiped  off  from  the  lid, 
the  lid  and  beater  removed,  and  the  cream  well  beaten  and  pressed 
down  with  a  wooden  spatula  or  spoon ;  the  cover  may  be  replaced,  a 
cork  fitted  tightly  in  hole  in  cover.  The  water  should  Tpe  drawn  off, 
and  more  ice  and  salt  added,  then  cover  with  a  piece  of  carpet  or 
blanket,  and  set  away  in  cool  place  until  needed, 

Cocoanut  Ice  Cream. — For  this,  take  a  quart  of  cream,  a  pint 
of  milk,  \}4  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  a  cup  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  and 
the  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon;  beat  together  the  eggs  and  grated 
lemon  rind,  add  this  to  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  until  it 
begins  to  thicken ;  then  add  the  cocoanut,  and  set  away  to  cool ; 
when  cold,  add  the  sugar  and  lemon j'uice  mixed  together;  then  stir 
in  the  cream  and  freeze. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Ice  Cream. — To  a  pint  of  cream  and  a 
pint  of  milk  allow  a  quart  of  red  raspberries,  half  a  pint  of  currants 
and  2  cupfiils  of  sugar ;  bring  the  milk  and  cream  to  boiling  point, 
remove  from  the  fire,  stir  va  1  cupful  of  sugar  until  dissolved,  and  set 
the  liquid  away  to  cool;  wash  the  raspberries  and  currants,  and  either 

COOK— 33 


514  ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM. 

rub  th^m  through  a  fine  sieve  or  else  strain  them  through  coarse 

muslin,  being  sure  that  no  seeds  are  left  in  the  juice;  then  add  the 

remaining  cupful  of  sugar;  when  the  cream  has  become  cold,  add  to 

it  the  juice,  and  freeze. 

Currant  Ice  Cream. — Mash  2  pounds  of  red  ripe  currants ;  add 

a  pound  of  sugar  to  them,  and  let  stand,  for  2  hours ;  strain  and  add 

the  juice  to  a  quart  of  thick,  sweet  cream;  if  not  sufficiently >sweet, 

add  more  sugar ;  pour  in  a  freezer)  let  stand  10  minutes  and  freeze. 

Almond  Ice  Cream. — To  a  quart  of  cream  and  a  pint  of  milk, 

allow  a  pint  of  water,  a  pint  of  blanched  almonds,  the  yolks  of  5  eggs, 

and   1}4  cups   of  sugar;  place  the 

almonds   in   a   frying-pan,   and  stir 

them  over  the  fire  until  they  become 

of  a  rich  brown  hue,  then  pound  them 

to  a  paste  in  a  mortar ;  cook  the  milk 

and  pounded   almonds  togethef  for 

20  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  allow 

,      „  _.  ,  it  to    scorch;   boil   the  water   an^ 

Ice  Oream  Dieher.  .       \,       r      or      •     ^        i 

sugar  together  for  25  mmutes ;  beaJ 

the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  stir  them  into  the  boiling  syrup;  beat  this 
mixture  for  4  minutes,  then  remove  from  fire  and  stir  it  gradually  into 
the  almonds  and  milk ;  strain  the  mixture  through  a  sieve,  pressing 
through  as  much  of  the  almonds  as  possible;  set  away  to  cool;  while 
cooling,  stir  occasionally ;  when  cold,  add  the  cream  and  half  tea- 
spoon of  almond  extract ;  freeze, 

Blueberry  Ice  Cream. — Blueberry  ice  cream  is  rather  odd,  and 
yet  altogether  delicious.  To  make  it  use  1  quart  of  large  ripe  blue- 
berries, 1  quart  of  cream,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract.  Freeze  the  cream  for  15  minutes.  Remove  the  beater 
and  stir  in  the  blueberries.  Pack  in  A  mould  or  in  a  freezer  ^nd  let 
stand  for  an  hour  or  more. 

Raspberry  lee  Cream. — To  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  pint  of  cream 
allow  a  scanty  pound  of  sugar,  a  quart  of  raspberries  and  white- of  1 
egg ;  heat  the  milk  and  cream  to  boiling  point,  take  off  the  fire,  add 
the  sugar  (one-half)  and  set  away  until,  cold ;  mash  the  raspberries! 
with  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  and  as  soon  as  the  milk  has  cooled,  add  the 
raspberries  and  freeze ;  when  the  cream  is  half  frozen,  add  the  well- 
beaten  white  of  the  egg  and  finish  freezing. 


ICES,  AND  ICE  CREAM.  515 

Peach  Ice  Cream. — Place  in  a  double  boiler  1  pint  of  milk  and  a 
generous  pint  of  sugar.  Put  over  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  20  minutes. 
Peel  and  slice  enough  sound,  ripe  peaches  to  make  a  quart ;  rub  them 
through  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
well  beaten.  Cook  for  5  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  stir  a  few  moments.  When  cold,  add  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  almond  extract  and  1  quart  of  cream,  and  freeze. 

Orange  Ice  Cream. — Grate"the  yellow  peel  (none  of  the  white) 
from  3  large  oranges.  Add  the  juice  of  the  oranges^ixed  with  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  6  eggs.  Stir  1  pint  of  boiling  milk 
gradually  into  the  eggs.  It  must  not  curdle.  Add' a  pint  of  perfectly 
fresh  cream,  and  if  the  mixture  is  not  a  good  yellow,  a  drop  or  two  of - 
the  yellow  French  coloring  liquid  used  by  confectioners  and  catereirs. 
These  vegetable  colorings  are  perfectly  safe  and  often  add  considera- 
bly to  the  appearance  of  the  dish.  Freeze  the  ice  cream  as  usual 
and  dish  it  out  in  little  round  forms,  about  the  size  of  small  oranges. 
There  is  a  scoop  for  the  purpos^e  of  dishing  ice  cream  which  serves  it 
in  a  perfectly  round,  symmetrical  form.  It  costs  but  25  cents,  and 
can  be  found  at-any  shop  supplying  bakers'  and  confectioners'  utensils. 
These  are  nice  to  serve  any  cream  with. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream.^-One  quart  of  cream,!  quart  of  straw- 
berries, 1  pound  of  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Put  half  the  sugar  and 
half  the  cream  on  to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler.  When  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, stand  aside  to  cool.  Add  the  remaining  half  of  the  sugar  and 
the  lemon  juice  to  the  Berries,  mash  and  stand  aside  1  hour,  then 
strain  through  a  fine  muslin.  Add  the  remaining  half  of  the  cream 
to  the  sweetened  cream  and  freeze.  When  frozen  stir  in  the  fruit 
juice^beat  thoroughly,  repack  and  stand  away  to  harden. 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream.^To  every  quart  of  rich  vanilla  cream> 
partly  frozen,  add  1  pint  of  mixed  almonds,  citron  and  mixed 'French 
candied  fruit  chopped  fine.  Finish  freezing,  add  one-quarter  of  a  cup 
of  orange  juice  and  put  away  to  ripen. 

Frozen  Strawberries. — Stem  and  wash  1  quart  of  the  ripe  ber- 
ries. Mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon,  add  1  pound  of  granulated 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons ;  mix  and  let  it  stand  an  hour ;  then 
add  1  quart  of  water  and  let  it  freeze.  See  that  the  sugar  is  thor- 
oughly dissolved  before  turning  the  mixture  into  the  freezing  can. 
This  may  be  served  as  soon  as  frozen.     Delicious. 


616  ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM. 

Frozen  Baspberri«i.-^I*repare  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as 
Frozen  Strawberries. 

Frozen  Oranges. — Boil  together  for  10  minutes  1  cupful  of 
water,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  2  oranges. 
Add  to  this  preparation  the  juice  of  four  oranges ;  cool  and  freeze. 
Boil  3  tablespponfuls  of  sugar  with  3  of  water  for  2  minutes.  Beat 
this  into  the  white  of  1  egg  that  has  been  beaten  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth. 
Stir  this  meringue  into  the  frozen  mixture,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Frozen  Cherries. — Two  quarts  of  pie  or  morello  cherries,  or 
1-quart  can,  ^pounds  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  water.  Stone  the  cherries, 
mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  stand  aside  1  hour ;  then  stir  until  the 
sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Add  the  water,  put  into  the  freezer, 
and  turn  rapidly  Until  frozen.    This  will  serve  10  persons. 

Frozen  Banana. — Peel  half  a  dozen  fine,  ripe  bananas,  and  slice 
with  a  silver  knife.  Mash  fine.  Boil  half  a  pint  of  water  and  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  5  minutes ;  when  cool,  strain  and  add,  with  the 
juice  of  an  orange,  to  the  bananas.  Put  in  the  freezer,  and  when 
frozen  stir  in  a  half  pin]t  of  whipped  cream.  Let  stand  for  an  hour. 
This  will  serve  six  persons. 

Banana  Glace. — Frozen  bananas  are  very  nice,  served  as  a  sweet 
course  at  a  luncheon  in  the  place  of  ices  or  ice  cream.  Get  the  best 
bananas  you  can  find,  with  the  skins  as  perfect  as  possible.  Peel  one 
section — that  is,  turn  it  back  carefully  without  separating  from  the 
rest  of  the  skin — and  take  out  the  fruit.  Mash  the  pulp,  and  to  each 
cupful  of  it  add  a,  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  sugar  to  taste.  Fill  the 
banana  skins  with  the  mixture,  shaping  it  as  much  like  the  fruit  a§ 
possible.  Cover  so  that  skins  will  not  appear  to  be  broken,  and  pack 
in  an  ice  cream  can.  Make  a  freezing  mixture  of  salt  and  ice,  as  for 
ice  cream,  and  let  them  stand  from  2  to  3  hours.  If  you  choose,  the 
pulp  may  be  colore^  with  strawberry  juice,  but  must  not  be  thinned 
too  much,  or  there  will  be  trouble  in  packing  the  fruit 

Frozen  Watermelon. — Split  a  ripe  melon  into  halves,  scoop  out 
centre,  rejecting  seeds.  Put  this  in  a  bowl  and,  with  a  silver  knife  or 
spoon,  chop  the  melon  into  small  pieces ;  add  juice  of  1  lemon  and 
half  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Throw  this  in  a  freezer,  pack  as 
usual,  and  turn  very  slowly  for  10  or  15  minutes,  until  the  mixture 
is  like  sofl  snow.  Serve  in  glasses.  If  you  use  wine,  at  serving  time 
put  1  teaspoonful  of  sherry  in  each  glass. 


ICES  AND   ICE  CREAM.  517 

Frozen  Peaches. — Prepare  same  as  Frozen  Cherries,  cutting  the 
fruit  in  slices  and  adding  1  pound  of  sugar  to-  the  quart  of  sliced 
fruit.  When  {irozen,  the  stiffly-beaten  white  of  an  egg  may  be  stirred 
in,  and  it  may  either  be  packed  away  an  hour  or  served  at  once. 

Peaches  and.  Cream. — If  one  has  an  ice-cream  freezer,  peaches 
and  cream  are  almost  equal  to  ice  cream.  Prepare  as  for  the  table 
fresh,  juicy  peaches;  season  them- liberally  with  cream  and  sugar, 
place  some  of  the  quarters  on  the  bottom  ^f  the  mould,  then  fill. 
Freeze  the  mass  solid  without  stirring.  It  will  usually  take  1 J^  to 
1^  hours.     Turn  out  and  serve  immediately. 

Frozen  Apples.— Take  finely-flavored  apples,  grate  them,  make 
them  very  sweet  and  freeze  them.  This  is  a  delicious  dish.  Pears 
and  quinces,  grated  (or  stewed  and  run  through  a  sieve),  then  made 
very  sweet  and  frozen,  are  also  very  nice.  The  flavor  is  much  better 
preserved  when  the  fruit  is  grated. 

Peach  Granite. — Half-dozen  peaches,  skinned  and  chopped. 
Make  a  syrup  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  little  less  water.  Season 
with  lemon,  pack  in  salt  and  ice.  When  nearly  frozen,  add  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  firmly  whipped,  mix  and  mould. 

Orange  Grrauito. — Mix  1  pint  of  orange  juice  with  3  pints  of 
sugar  syrup,  made  as  follows  :  Dissolve  2  pounds  of  sugar  in  2  pints 
of  cold  water ;  next  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  thin  peel  of 
one ;  strain  through  a  fine  sieved,  pour  into  a  well-packed  freezer  and 
freeze  for  5  minutes ;  then  take- off  the  cover,  cut  the  frozen  parts 
loose  from  the  sides  of  the  freezer,  turn  for  a  few  rriinutes  longer  and 
serve. 

Frozen  Fruits. — One  or  more  fruits  may  be  used  in  this  dish. 
Theyshould'be  divided  into  convenient  portions  and  dressed  with  sugar 
to  taste.  This  combination  is  placed  in  the  can  of  a  freezer  and  salted 
ice  packed  round  it.  After  an  hour,  cut  the  congealed  portions 
away  from  the  side  of  the  can,  renew  the  ice  and  salt,  and  let  it  stand 
until  frozen,  which  will  require  about  three  hours. 

Frozen  Pudding. — Fill  the  mould  with,  first,  slices  of  sponge- 
cake, then  sliced  bananas,  then  some  s'mooth  jelly  (orange  or  lemon 
is  nice),  then  macaroons,  and  so  on  till  the  mould  is  full.  Make  a 
steamed  custard,  in  Avhich  dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  gelatine.  When  cool, 
not  cold,  pour  over  the  pudding  and  pack  as  before  directed  and  serve 
with  sauce.    Or  flavor  1  quart  of  ice  cream  with  1  teaspoon  each  of 


618 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM. 


extract  of  vanilla,  orange  and  rose  water.  When  j>ttrtly  frozen,  add 
a  mixture  of  cherries,  plums,  apricots,  pears,  strawberries,  peaches,  or 
use  figs,  dates,  raisins,  currants  and  citron.  A  tablespoon  each  of 
Madeira  wine  and  Jamaica  rum  can  be  used  in  the  place  of  the  extracts. 
Tuscan  Puddingr. — Make  a  boiled  custard  with  1  pint  of  milk, 
sweetened  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  boiled  and  poured  oh  3  beaten  eggs. 
Return  the  mixture  to  the  saucepan  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not 
let  it  curdle,  as  it  will  if  it  boils  for  more  than  a  second.    When  cool 

add  1  pint  of  cream,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  box  of  gela- 
tine, dissolved  and  strained,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  20 
drops  of  extract  of  bitter  almond. 
Put  in  a  mould  with  smooth  sides 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt.  The  pro- 
portion is  2  quarts  of  broken  ice  to 
1  of  coarse  salt,  well  mixed.  In  an 
hour  remove  the  mould,  and  after 
wiping  it  carefully  uncover  it,  and 
1^^  with  a  knife  scrape  the  frozen  cream 
from  the  sides.  Beat  it  thoroughly, 
as  this  makes  the  texture  fine  and 
smooth.  If  it  is  nearly  frozen,  add 
half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds, 
blanched  and  chopped  fine,  half  a 
,'=?;5-     —  -'  —  '=■  pound  of  candied  ginger,   cut  in 

small  pieces,  and  half  a  pound  of  citron  prepared  in  the  same  way. 
If  the  cream  is  not  very  stiff  return  the  mould  to  the  ice,  repeat  the- 
prodess  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  add  the  nuts,  ginger  and 
citron  after  the  second  beating. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  Puddingy. — ^Whip  1  quart  rich,  sweet 
cream  until  thick,  add  2  cups  powdered  sugar,  and,  lastly,  stir  1  quart 
ripe  strawberries  through  the  cream ;  fill  this  into  a  pudding  form 
with  a  tube  in  the  centre ;  cover  lightly,  and  put  a  strip  of  buttered 
paper  around  the  edge  of  the  cover,  so  that  the  water  cannot  enter, 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt ;  cover  with  a  heavy  woolen  cloth  or  blanket, 
and  let  stand  4  hours.    When  ready  to  serve,  lift  from  ice;  remove 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM.  619 

the  paper,  wipe  off  the  formi  dip  it  in  hot  water,  turn  the  pudding 
onto  a  dish,  and  serve  at  once. 

Nesselrode  Padding. — Three  cups  of  chestnuts,  shell  and  blanch, 
simmer  until  soft,  drain  and  rub  through  a  colander.  Cut  1  pound  of 
French  fruit  candied  in  small  pieces  and  cover  with  half  cupful  sherry- 
wine.  (Half  cupful  rose-water  can  be  substituted  for  the  wine.)  Boil. 
2  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  1  cupTul  of  water  15  minutes.  Beat  into  it  the 
well-whipped  yolks  of  eggs.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture 
thickens  slightly;  then  remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  cold.  Add 
the  nuts  and  1  pint  of  cream.  Flavor  with  1  teasponful  vanilla.  Put 
in  freezer  and  work  until  partly  frozen.  Stir  in  the  candied  fruit  and 
finish  the  freezing.     Then  pack  the  mould  for  2  hours  to  set. 

Iced  Bice  Puddingy. — This  delicious  pudding  is  made  from  haff 
a  cupful  of  rice,  3  eggs,  2  cupfuls  of  milk,  half  cupful  of  sugar,  and  a 
pint  of  whipped^  cream.  Boil  the  rice  until  tender,  putting  it  on  to 
cook  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  when  cooked 
nearly  dry,  put  the  rice  in  your  double  boiler  with  2  cupfuls  of  milk. 
Cook  until  all  the  milk  is  absorbed,  and  then  put  through  a  sieve. 
Return  the  ride  to  the  boiler,  add  the  3  eggs  beaten  until  light,  and 
the  sugar.  When  cold  flavor,  mix  thoroughly  with  the  whipped 
cream,  beating  it  into  the  rice,  and  freeze. 

Ices. 

Ices  are  generally  looked  upon  as  a  somewhat  expensive  luxury, 
but  if  made  according  to  the  following  directions,  they  can  be  suc- 
cessfully produced  at  a  very  small  cost,  and  with  very  little  trouble. 
All  that  is  required  is  a  zinc  pail  and  a  freezing  pot ;  a  small  biscuit 
tin  or  a  round  cocoa  tin,  capable  of  holding  a  pint  of  liquid,  will 
answer  the  purpose  very  well. 

For  water  ices  allow  equal  quantities  of  the  juice  of  fresh  fruit 
and  water,  which  has  been  sweetened  and  colored  to  taste,  adding  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  to  every  pint  of 
liquid.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  make  any  mixture  to  be  frozen 
excessively  sweet,  or  it  will  be  difficult  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  result; 
on  the  other  hand,  it  should  be  sufficiently  sweet,  or  the  ice  will  be 
hard  and  rough  in  appearance.  The  icessshould  be  served  in  fancy 
paper  cases,  placed  on  a  small  glass  plate.  , 

A  much  longer  time  is  required  for  freezing  water  ices  than 


520  ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM. 

creams.  The  juice  of  all  fruits  may  be  used  to  flavor  them, and  when 
they  may  not  be  obtained  fresh,  syrups  may  be  substituted.  Water 
ices  may  be  moulded,  if  desired,  as  other  ices.  An  ice  is  made  of 
fruit  juice,  ice,  and  water.  A  sherbet  must  be  beaten  white.  To 
make  a  water  ice^  very  nice,  some  cooks  clarify  the  sugar.  Take 
sugar  and  water,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of 
water.  To  make  2  quarts  of  water  ice,  take,  for  example,  2  pounds 
of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  water,  adding  to  them  about  the  fourth  part  of 
the  white  of  an  egg,  well  beaten  up,  and  boil  for  10  minutes.  Leave 
the  mixture  to  cool,  and  when  it  is  cold  put  in  the  flavoring. 

liemon  Ice. — Squeeze  the  juice  from  6  lemons,  and  grate  the 
peel  of  3  of  them;  also  take  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  large  sweet 
orange.  Let  the  orange  and  lemon  peel  steep  in  the  juice  1  hour; 
then  strain  through  a  bag,  squeezing  the  bag  dry.  Boil  1  pint  of 
sugar  and  1  pint  of  water  together  to  form  a  syrup ;  strain ;  when 
cool,  ^tir  in  the  other  ingredients  and  freeze.  A  lemon  ice  can  be 
made  by  simply  making  a  very  rich,  sweet  lemonade,  and  freezing  it, 
but  it  is  not  quite  so  rich. 

Orange  Ice. — Make  as  above,  using  fruit  in  the  proportion  of  6 
oranges  to  1  lemon. 

Currant  Ice. — Put  a  pint  of  sugar  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Then  add  a  pint  of  currant  juice  and  the 
juice  of'2  lemons.     When  cold,  freeze.     The  lemon  can  be  omitted. 

Pineapple  -Ice. — One  can  chopped  pineapple,  or  2  fresh  pine- 
apples, grated ;  add  to  it  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  1^  pounds  of  sugar, 
and  1  quart  of  water.     Freeze  in  an  ice-cream  freezer.     Delicious. 

Orape  Water  Ice. — Take  a  pint  of  grape  juice,  an  equal  measure 
of  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  watfer.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water ; 
when  it  is  cold,  add  the  grape  juice,  and  freeze  as  for  other  fruit  ices. 

Cherry  Ice. — ^Two  cups  cherry  juice,  a  quart  of  water,  2  large 
cups  of  sugar.  Mix  and  freeze.  The  ice  is  nicer  if  the  sugar  and 
water  are  first  made  into  a  syrup,  and  cooled  before  adding  the.  fruit 
juice.  To  flavor,  crack  a  number  of  the  cherry  pits  and  rub  to  a 
Ipaste  in  a  mortar,  or  some  other  way,  and  put  with  the  cherries  be- 
fore straining  them.     Some  cooks  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 

Strawberry  Ice. — Ripe  strawberries,  mashed  and  pounded  in  a 
bowl  of  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  of  berries  to  one  of  sugar, 
allowed  to  stand,  strained,  mixed  with  a  pint  of  ice  water  and  the  juice 


ICES  AND  IC^  CREAM.  ,521 

of  1  lemon,  and  frozen  without  stirring,  make  a  delicious  water  ice. 
A  teaspoonful  of  orange-flower  water  adds  to  the  flavor. 

Blackberry  Ice. — Make  after  the  same  rule  as  Strawberry  Ice. 

Tapioca  Ice. — One  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night.  In  the 
morning  put  it  on  the  stove,  and,  when  boiling  hot,  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  and  boil  till  clear.  Chop  1  pineapple,  stir  together  with  tapi- 
oca and  put  into  moulds.     Serve  ice  cold,  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Sherbets. 

liemon  Sherbet. — Six  lemons,  4  eggs,  whites  of,  2  pints  of  sugar^ 
1  pint  pf  water.  Make  a  thick  syrup  of  1  pint  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of 
water,  when  cold,  thin  with  the  juice  of  6  lemons  and  enough  water 
to  make  rich  lemonade.  When  half  frozen,  add  the  following :  Take 
the  remaining  pint  of  sugar,  moistened  with  water,  boiled  into  very 
soft  candy ;  while  hot,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  4  eggs, 
flavor  with  vanilla,  add  a  little  cream  of  tartar,  beat  hard  until  thick 
and  add  to  the  half-frozen  lemonade.  The  result  will  be  found  to  be 
a  most  delicious  sherbet. 

Ijemou  Sherbet — II.  Sometimes  lemon  jelly  made  with  gela- 
tine will  not  solidify.  In  such  a  case,  add  2  stiff  whites  of  eggs  and 
a  little  sugar  to  a  quart  of  the  jelly,  and  freeze  it  as  lemon  ice.  It 
will  be  found  to  be  delicious,  and  that  the  egg  removes  the  coarse, 
snowy  taste  of  the  average  water  ice.  A  lemon  .sherbet  is  some- 
times made  likd"  lemon  jelly  with  gelatine  and  frozen.  . 

Strawberry  Sherbet. — Mash  2  quarts  of  strawberries  with  2 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  an  hour  or  more.  '  Squeeze 
in  a  straining  cloth,  pressing  out  all  the  juice.  Add  an  equal  mea- 
sure of  water,  and  when  half  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  in 
the  proportion  of  3  eggs  to  a  quart. 

Orange  Sherbet. — Grate  the  rinds  of  4  oranges  and  steep  them 
10  m-inutes  in  a  pint  of  water.  Strain  this  upon  1  pound  of  sugar, 
add  a  pint  of  orange  juice,  and  when  cold  pour  into  the  freezer. 
When  half  frozen  add  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
The  juice  of  1  lemon  will  assist  the  flavor. 

i  Apricot  Sherbet. — Three  cupfuls  of  apricots,  cut  fine ;  1  cupful 
sugar ;  2  cupfuls  water ;  kernels  of  one-half  the  apricots ;  2  whites  of 
eggs.  If  the  fresh  fruit  be  used,  reserve  1  cupful  of  the  ripest.  Stew 
the  other  2  cupfuls  with  the  kernels  in  the  water  and  sugar  5  minutes. 


622  ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM. 

Rub  the  fruit  through  a  strainer,  with  the  syrup ;  pour  into  the 
freezer.  When  nearly  frozen,  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  turn  the  freezer  a  few  minutes  longer.  Stir  in  the  cut  apricots 
just  before  serving.  Canned  apricots  can  be  used7  and  if  in  syrup 
that  can  be  added  also. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. — Pare  and  grate  2  large  pineapples,  or  use  1 
can,  which  cut  in  small  dice,  and  use  the  syrup.  Place  1  quart  of- 
water,  with  lyi  pounds  of  sugar,  over  the  fire  to  boil.  Boil  5  minutes. 
When  cold  add  juice  of  2  good-sized  lemons  and  the  grated  pineapple. 
Turn  into  the  freezer  and  stir  until  frozen.  Beat  the  white  of  1  egg 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  it  1  table^poonful  powdered  sugar ;  beat  again. 
Remove  the  dasher,  stir  in  the  egg,  and  repack.  Stand  aside  for  2 
hours  to  ripen. 

Grape  Sberbet. — Put  in  a  saucepan  half  a  pound  of  granulated 
sugar  and  1  quart  of  water.  --  Let  it  boil  a  few  moments ;  take  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  gelatine 
that  has  been  dissolved  in  a  gill  of  water.  When  cool,  add  a  half 
pint  of  juice  from  any-  dark,  rich  grape,  and  turn  into  a  freezer  and 
freeze.  When  frozen,  and  before  you  remove  the  beater,  add  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  /roth,  with  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar.  Stir  thoroughly  into  the  sherbet,  cover  and  repack,  and  stand 
in  a  cool  place  for  2  hours. 

Milk  Sherbet. — Squeeze  3  large  lemons  or  4  small  ones,  and  to 
the  juice  add  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence ; 
then  put  in  1  quart  of  milk  and  freeze.    This  is  considered  delicious. 

Sorbets. 

Sorbets  are  merely  a  variation  of  water  ices,  secured  by  adding 
various  wines  and  liquors  to  the  original  water  ice.  A  very  colorable 
imitation,  jn  these  days  when  so  many  people  deprecate  the  use  of 
much  strong  liquor,  is  to  use  the  liqueur  syrups,  which  contain  no  alco- 
hol, or  else  to  substitute  the  lighter  "  granito,"  which  abroad  is  used  at 
any  time  of  the  day  to  quench  thirst.  Of  course  these  are,  strictly 
speaking,  not  "  sorbets  "  at  all,  as  this  word  has  come  to  signify  a 
water  ice  strongly  fortified  with  alcohol,  but  at  the  same  time  they  are 
much  more  like  the  original  "  sherbet,"  and  are  very  tempting.  Sor- 
bets may  be  served  in  old-fashioned  wineglasses,  Venetian  glass  china 
cups,  or  plain  Nuremberg  beakers,  as  may  be  most  convenient. 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM.  528 

Sorbets  are  always  nicer  if  garnished  with  fresh  fruit  correspond- 
ing to  or  contrasting  with  the  fruit  used  in  the  sorbet  itself;  and  this 
fruit  should  always  be,  so  to  speak,  marinaded  with  either  wine,  spirit, 
lemon  juice,  liqueur  or  liqueur  syrup,  and  caster  sugar,  and  set  either 
in  the  ice  cave  or  in  ice  for  an  hour  or  so- before  using.  "^ 

Banana  Sorbet. — Banana  sorbet  is  a  most  palatable  ice.  Feel 
and  pound  half  a  dozen  ripe  bananas  and  add  a  teacupful  of  loaf  sugar, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pint  of  water.  Half  freeze  and  add  a  wine- 
glass of  any  liquor  before  completing  the  process.  It  is  never  pos-, 
sible  to  freeze  sorbets  as  firm  as  plain  water  ices.  The  spirits  prevent 
complete  congealing. 

Sorbet  de  Baisin  au  Xerea. — To  a  pint  of  lemon  water  ice  add 
a  wineglassful  of  elderflower  water  and  ?  good  wineglassfuls  of  sherry. 

Punch  Souffle  a  la  Francaise. — P*our  a  pint  of  perfectly  boiling 
water  on  2  ounces  of  good  tea,  and  let  it  infuse^  for  5  minutes ;  then 
strain  it  ofT,  and  let  it  get  cool.  Whip  4  raw  yolks  of  eggs  for  5  min- 
utes with  3  ounces  of  sugar,  the  strained  juice  of  1  large  or  2  small 
lemons,  and  a  spoonful  or  so  of  arrack  or  good  rum,  and  to  this  add 
the  cold  tea,  gradually  whipping  it  all  the  time ;  then  strain  it,  add  to 
it  half  a  pint  of  very  thick  and  stiffly  whipped  cream,  put  it  into  a 
read)r-papered  souffle  mould,  and  freeze  in  the  charged  ice  cave  for  2 
or  3  hours.  The  great  point  -to  observe  in  making  this  punch  is  to 
have  the  tea  good,  and  to  be  particular  as  to  the  water,  which  must 
be  freshly  boiled,  and  just  boiling  when  poured  on  to  the  tea  leaves. 
This  is  scarcely  a  sorbet,  but  it  is  nevertheless  a  form  of  punch  wHich 
has  met  with  much  jsuccess.  There  is  also  a  form  of  sorbet,  or  rather 
of  water  ice,  much  liked  in  Italy.called  a  "  granito,"  a  water  ice  com- 
posed of  plain  sugar  and  water  syrup,  and  fruit  oi*  wine,  but  not  spirit. 

Wild  Cherry  and  Almond  Sorbet. — One  quart  water,  1  pint 
white  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  6  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  pound- 
ed ;  1  bitter  almond,  a  wineglassful  of  wild  cherry  syrup.  Freeze  in 
a  freezer ;  when  half  frozen,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Serve 
in  glass  cups.  The  yolks  of  the  eggs  can  be  used  in  the  mayonnaise 
dressing  for  the  celery  salad. 

There  are  only  a  few  of  these  sorbets  given,  since  it  is  not  the 
purpose  of  this  book  to  give  recipes  that  make  use  of  wine  in  their 
con^osition. 


Coffee. — ^The  best  coffee 'will  be  found  to  be 
a  mixture  of  two-thirds  Java  with  one-third. 
Mocha,  Buy  ready  roasted  unless  you  ownH 
rotary  roaster;  keep  in  an  air-tight  jar,  and 
grind  only  as  required.  When  eggs  are  plen- 
tiful and  cheap  save  all  the  shells ;  when  they 
have  accumulated,  crush  them  very  fine  and  dry^ 
them.  Beat  half  a  dozen  eggs  and  stir  the  shells 
into  the  mixture ;  spread  and  dry  quickly.  Put 
into  a  thin  muslin  bag  anc^  hang'  near  the  fire,  to  keep  the  contents 
dry.  When  eggs  are  high  or  scarce,  a  tablespoonful  of  this  mixture, 
soaked  in  cold  water  several  hours,  will  settle  coffee  as  well  as  a 
whole  egg.  Heat  dry  coffee  before  pouring  on  the  water.  Put  the 
ground  coffee  in  the  pot,-arid  then  shake  it  about  on  the  stove  until 
thoroughly  heated,  and  then  pour  on  the  boiling  water.  In  this  way 
'  the  heated  ground  coffee  imparts  to  the  fluid  an  extra  pungency  ot 
flavor  and  richness.  Tea  or  chocolate  should  never  be  served  with 
fried  foods.  Always  serve  coffee  with  fried  oysters,  fish,  or  lobsters, 
also  with  cheese.  Milk  which  has  changed  may  be  rendered  fit  for 
use  again  by  stirring  in  a  little  soda. 

How  to  detect  CMckory  in  Ground  Coflfee. — Shake  a  spoonful 
of  coffee  with  a  wineglass  of  cold  water,  and  then  place  the  glass  on 
the  table.  If  the  coffee  is  pure,  it  will  rise  to  the  surface  and  scarcely 
color  the  liquid ;  but  if  not,  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom  and  the  water 
will  be  tinged  red. 

'  The  art  of  "  Pouring." — Fev;  hostesses  understand  the  art  of 
pouring  tea  and  coffee,  simple  as  it  appears.  As  a  rule,  the  guest  of 
honor  is  offered  the  first  cup,  which  is  the  weakest,  and  the  children, 
if  served  at  all,  are  given  the  last  and  strongest.  When  it  is  desirable 
to  have  all  the  cups  of  uniform  strength,  one  should  pour  a  little  into 
each,  and  then  begin  -over  again,  reversing  the  order.  In  England 
this  is  so  well  understood  that  a  pourer  of  tea  or  coffee  does  not 
begin  to  replenish  the  cups  till  all  are  before  her. 

Dripped  Coffee. — An  ideal  cup  of  coffee  can,  it  is  said,  be  made 
")nly  in  one  way.     The  coffee  must  be  of  the  best  quality^  roasted, 
524 


TABLE  DRINKS. 


525 


ground  immediately,  and  used  as  quickly  as  possible.  The  best  kind 
of  coffee-pot  is  one  that  has  a  filter.  They  can  be  had  of  many  sizes 
and  shapes,  all  the  way  from  simplicity  to  an  extreme  of  elegance. 
To  secure  a  good  infusion  quickly,  the  ground  coffee  should  be 
placed  in  the  cylinder  on  top  of  the  coffee-pot,  the  strainer  should  be 
pressed  down  on  top  of  the  coffee,  and  the  boiling  water  should  be 
poured  over  so  that  the  infusion  runs  slowly.  While  it  filters,  the 
pot  ought  to-  stand  in  a  vessel  containing  very  hot  water,  so  that  the 
infusion  may  keep  a  high  degree  of  heat  without  allowing  it  to  boil; 
Boiling  is  the  spoiling  of  coffee.  Have  ready  the  cups,  heated  by 
pouring  boiling  water  in  them ;  put  in  the  required  quantity  of  cream 
and  sugar,  then  fill  up  with  the  distilled  nectar  from  the  coffee-pot, 
and  one  has  a  beverage  that  is  a  revelation. 


Steamed  Coffee. — Put  the  required  amount  of  coffee  and  water 
in  the  coffee-pot.  Set  this  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil 
half  an  hour  or  longer.  The  coffee  will  need  no- settling,  and  will  be 
clear  as  crystal ;  or,  a  tin  inside  may  be  made  for  the  coffee-pot,  after 
the  style  of  a  dripper,  only  without  the  perforations,  and  somewhat 
deeper.-  Put  4  or  5  inches  of  water  in  the  coffee-pot.  Hang  the  inner 
compartment  inside,  and  in  this  put  the  coffee  and  water.  Let  boil. 
This  is  one  of  the  best  "Ways  known  for  preparing  coffee,  and  also  an 
economical  one  as  stronger  coffee  can  be  made  from  a  leu  amount 
than  in  any  other  way. 


526  TABLE  DRINKS. 

Boiled  Coffee. — One  tablespoonfirl  for  each  person  to  be  served, 
and  1  for  the  pot.  Put  the  coffee  in  the  pot  with  part  of  an  egg,  unless 
already  prepared  as  above  given ;  pour  over  it  1  cupful  cold  water,  and 
let  steep.  When  the  water  in  the  kettle  boils  add  the  necessary 
amount,  and  let  boil  5  nainutes.  Pour  out  half  a  cupful  before  serv- 
ing, to  clear  the  strainer.  This  (if  no  other  precaution  is  used)^ 
turned  back  into  the  can  from  a  little  distance  above  it,  will  usually 
clear  the  coffee  thoroughly.  To  retain  the  aroma  while  boiling,  close 
up  the  spout. 

Meringued  Coffee. — Make  the  coffee  the  usual  way.  Put  into 
each  cup  the  desired  amount  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  boiling  milk. 
Make  a  meringue  by  mij?ing  the  white  of  an  egg,  well  beaten,  with 
one-half  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Lay  a  heaping  spoonful  upon  the 
top  of  each  cup  before  serving.  ~~^ 

Sweet  Corn  poffee. — Try  it  for  the  sick  ones.  Take  nice  sweet 
corn,  fan  out  all  the  hulls  and  silk,  roast  it  in  the  oven;  do  not  let  it 

burn,  hut  keep  watch  of  it, 
and  have  it  a  rich  brown-^ 
pound  it  or  grind  it.  Take 
2  tablespoonfuls  to  a  little 
water,  let  it  steep  a  few  min- 
utes, strain,  serve  with  cream 
Tea  or  Ooflfee  Strainer.  and  sugar,  or  take  it  clear. 

It  is  very  nice,  and  is  considered  palatable  by  most  coffee  drinkers, 

Cafe-au-Iiait. — Prepare  1  quart  of  strong,  hot  coffee  in  any  pre- 
ferred manner.  Strain  into  a  hot  coffee-pot.  Add  an  equal  amount 
of  boiling  milk.  Cover  closely  with  a  thick  cloth  for  5  miriutes 
before  serving. "  Whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Sweeten 
to  the  taste,  and  put  1  large  spoonful  of  this  in  each  cup.  Cafe-mi- 
,  Jait  may  be  made  without  this  last  addition. 

Substitute  for  Cream. — Beat  up  a  fresh  egg  in  a  basin  and  then 
pour  boiling  tea  over  it  gradually,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  curd- 
\.  ling.     Make  it  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.     Or,  boil  milk   in  a 
double  boiler  until  it  thickens ;  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  is  an  addi- 
tion. 

Iced  Coffee. — Take  strong  cdffee,  one-half  the  amount  of  milk, 
a  generous  seasoning  of  cream,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  in  a  refrig- 
erator directly  on  the  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled. 


TABLE .  DRINKS. 


527 


Creamed  Coffee. — To  5  cups  of  good  clear  coffee  add  1  dup  of 
cream  and  bring  to  boil.  = '^ - 

Eggr  CoflFee* — A  novel  drink  for  the  breakfast  on  a  hot  morning  is 
"  egg  coffee,"  which,  with  bread  and  fruit  to  make  up  the  necessary  bulk 
for  the  stomach,  has  been  found  an 
excellent  repast.  If  the  coffee  is  to 
be  served  cold,  shake  an  egg,  some 
bits  of  sugar  and  ice  together,  then 
add  cold  cafe-au-lait.  If  hot  liquid 
is  used,  put  the  egg,  cream  and  sugar 
in  a  glass,  and  shake  thoroughly, 
then  add  the  hot  coffee,  stirring 
quickly  all  the  time. 

Cafe  a~la  Delmonico. — This  is 
a  delicious  luncheon,  or  "  high  tea," 
drink.  To  the  making  of  it  goes  the 
tall  glass  of  splintered  ice,  the  pow- 
dered sugar,  the  hot  coffee,  which  is 
cold  by  the  time  it  gets  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  glass,  and,  to  top  off,  a 
generous  spoonful  of  stiffly  whipped 
cream.     This  is  to  be  stirred  into  Tea  Kettle, 

the  coffee  as  it  is  drunken.    The  flavor  is  exquisite. 

Syrup  of  Coflfee.-'— Syrup  of  coffee  is  useful  for  those  who  wish 
to  take  coffee  with  them  on  a  journey  in  as  small  a  quantity  as  possi- 
ble. Make  it  thus :  Take  a  pound  of  best  freshly-ground  coffee  and 
place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  5  pints  of  water  and  boil  it  down  to  1 
pint.  Strain  the  liquor,  and  when  it  is  nearly  cold  place  it  in  another 
saucepan  to  boil  again.  As  it  boils  add  sufficient  loaf  sugar  to  make 
it  of  the  consistency  of  syrup.  Let  the  sugar  thoroughly  dissolve, 
then  boil  up,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  cold  bottle  and  seal  it. 
When  required  for  use  place  a  teaspoonful  of  the  coffee  in  a  breakfast 
cupful  of  boiling  water  or  milk,  whichever  is  preferred. 

Tea.  „ 

Although  the  process  of  making  this  favorite  beverage  is  exceed- 
ingly simple,  there  is  really  no  article  of  daily  consumption  which 
meets  with  greater  failure  in  the  preparation.    The  very  best  quality 


fi2S 


TABLE  DRINKS. 


should  always  be  procured ;  one  should  never  begrudge  the  money 

'  which  is  spent  in  such  a  cause  of  health  and  pleasure.     The  water 

with  which  the  tea  is  to  be  made  should  be  freshly  drawn  from  the 


Five  O'clock  Tea. 
faucet,  and  put  into  a  kettle  which  is  peifectly  clean.     The  water 
should  then  be  brought  quicklytp  boiling  point,  for  long  simmering 
makes  it  flat  and  lifeless,  and  it  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil  longer 
than  5  minutes  before  being  used  for  this  purpose,  for,  in  this  way. 


TABLE  DRINKS.  629 

through  long  boiling,  the  water  lobes  most  of  its  g^s.  Tea  should 
never  be  boiled.  After  tea  stands  a  while,  the  tanni'fc  acid  which  it 
contains  develops  and  makes  it' bitter.  The  tea-pot  should  always  be 
thoroughly  cleansed  after  befng  used  and  carefully  put  away.  An 
earthenware  or  china  tea-pot  should  always' be  used;  a  tin  one  should 
never,  on  any  account,  be  employed,  for  if  the  tea  is  left  standing  in 
it  for  any  length  of  time  it  becomes  absolutely  poisonous  and  unfit 
for  use.  The  Chinese  never  use  milk  or  sugar.  To  do  so  spoils  the 
flavor  of  the  tea.  Keep  tea  in  little  taddies  with  closely-fitting  covers 
to  keep  the  flavor. 

A  Cup  of  Good  Tea. — A  mixed  tea  is  preferred  by  most  tastes. 
A  good  mixture  is  one-third  black  and  two-thirds  green.  Some  pre- 
fer half-and-half.  If  strong  tea  is  desired,  use  1  teaspoonful  for  each 
person.  Otherwise  less  may  be  used.  Some  teas  require  to  be 
steeped  much  longer  than  others,  in  order  to  properly  extract  their 
flavor  and  strength,  but  this  can  only  be  learned  by  experience.  The 
tea-pot  should  be  well  scalded  by  rinsing  it  out  with  boiling  water, 
then,  while  it  is  still  hot,  the  necessary  amount  of  tea  should  be  placed 
therein,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  boiling  water  should  be  added 
to  thoroughly  saturate  it.  This  should  be  left  under  a  4ea-cosy  or 
upon  the  back  of  the  stove  to  steep  for  about  5  minutes,  after  which 
time  the  required  quantity  of  boiling  water  should  be  poured  in  and 
the  tea  should  be  served  at  once.  Count  the  water  by  cupfuls  until 
the  capacity  of  the  tea-pot  is  ascertained. 

This  beverage  should  be  made  just  before  wanted  for  the  table 
and  should  be  used  at  once.  A  very  excellent  plan  adopted  by  many 
English  families  is  to  have  the  tea  brewed  upon  the  table.  A 
silver  kettle  of  water  should  be  placed  upon  the  table  in  the  dining- 
room,  brought  to  the  boiling  point  by  means  of  a  small  alcohol  lamp 
which  is  attached  to  the  kettle  beneath.  The  steeping  is  then  accom- 
plished by  means  of  a  tea-cosy,  or  a  turned-down  flame  of  the  spirit 
lamp.  Tea,  especially  at  receptions  and  afternoon  teas,  is  made  thus, 
or  in  the  cups  themselves.  A  silver  tea  ball,  under  these  circum- 
stances, does  away  with  the  tea  leaves  in  the  cup.  English  breakfast 
tea  (black)  requires  10  minutes  to  steep.  If  black  tea  should  chance 
to  boil,  it  is  not  ruined  in  flavor  like  green  tea.  If  the  tea  should 
happen  to  be  too  strong,  weaken  by  the  addition  of  a  little  boiling 

water. 

COOK— 34 


530  TABLE  DRINKS. 

Russian  Tea. — Russian  tea  is  so  much,  more  refreshing,  as  well 
as  so  much  more  appetizing,  to  most  palates,  than  the  average  bever- 
age offered  at  5  o'clock,  that  one  wonders  that  it  is  not  oftener 
met  with.  It  need  not  contain  the  often-added  drop  of  cordial;  but  a 
slice  of  lemon  alone,  without  any  cream  and  preferably  no  sugar, 
gives  a  very  piquant  flavor  to  what,  to  the  American  taste,  is  rather 
an  insipid  drink. 

Tea  Punch,  a  la  Busse. — ^The  ingredients  are  enough  finely 
cracked  ice  to  two-thirds  fill  a  tall  glass,  as  much  powdereH  sugar  as 
one  would  drink  in  a  glass  that  size  of  any  tea,  plus  an  extra  spoon- 
ful to  offset  the  lemon  juice,  which  goes  next.  Over  this  pour  the 
tea.  This  should  be  freshly  made  and  preferably  hot.  It  gets  cold 
by  the  time  the  glass  is  filled^  percolating  over  the  ice,  and  a  whip  or 
two  of  a  mixing,  spoon  will  finish  off  the  mixture  to  the  taste  of  all 
the  gods  that  like  a  tea  flavor.  There  is  less  tannic  acid  by  using 
boiling  tea  than  by  first  allowing  the  tea  to  cool. 

Iced  Tea. — Iced  tea  can  be  made  from  either  green  or  black  tea, 
but  a  mixture  of  the  two  is  an  improvement  on  either  of  them 
alone.  Prepare  the  tea  in  the  morning,  making  it  stronger  than  usyal. 
It  is  better  not  to  sweeten  until  you  have  learned  the  tastes  of  the 
guests.  Strain  and  pour  into  a  stone  jug  or  glass  bottle,  and  place  in 
the  ice-chest  until  ready  .to  serve.  Pour  it  in  goblets  and  never  use 
cream.  "^  Serve  the  ice  cracked  on  plates  garnished  with  well-washed 
fruit  leaves.    Slice  of  lemon  can  be  put  in  each  ^ass. 

Chocolate. 

For  those  who  wish  to  keep  the  imagination  fresh  ahd  vigorous, 
chocolate  is  the  beverage  of  beverages.  However  copiously  you 
have  lunched,  a  cup  of  chocolate  immediately  afterward  will  pro- 
duce digestion  three  hours  after  and  prepare  the  way  for  a  go^d 
dinner.  It  is  recommended  to  every  one  who  devotes  to  brain  work 
the  hours  he  should  pass  in  bed.  The  merest  dash  of  cinnamon  in  a 
cup  of  chocolate,  after  it  is  poured,  is  said  to  add  a  piquant  and  un» 
distinguishable  flavor.  ^ 

Ctocolate  (Plain). — Put  into  a  covered  pot,  set  in  boiling  wate?, 
1  quart  of  new  rhilk ;  stir  into  it  3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  grated 
chocolate  mixed  to  a  paste  with  xold  milk;  let  it  boil  5  minutes, 
stirring,  and  serve  at  once.    To  make  good  chocolate,  of  course  good 


TABLE  DRINKS. 


531 


materials  are  required.  If  it  is  not  wanted  so  rich,  use  milk  and 
water,  half-and-half.  Take  off  the  scum  that  rises,  and  serve  with 
sugar  and  cream.  You  can  cook  either  cocoa  or  chocolate  practically 
forever  in  water  only,  provided  that  you  do  not  put  in  the  boiling  milk 
until  5  minutes  before  you  want  to  serve  it.  Take  out  as  mudh  as  you 
want  tojadd  the  milk  to,  and  let  the  remainder  simmer  in  water  over 
the  fire  until  wanted  again.  This  is  very  convenient  where  the  family 
cannot  all.  be  served  at  once. 
Hot  crackers,  or  cheese  crack- 
ers, are  very  nice  to  serve 
with  it. 

Yieuna  Gbocolate. — One 
quart  of  milk,  3  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate, 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Allow  the  milk  to  come 
to  a  boil,  put  in  the  chocolate 
and  boil  about  5  minutes,  or 
UHtil  of  desired  thickness.  After 
remwving  it  from  the  fire  sea- 
son with  the  essence  of  vanilla 
.  according  to  taste.  The  choco- 
late should  then  be  poured  into 
dainty  cups  while  still  in  the  kitchen,  and  served  quickly  and  steam- 
ing hot.  Fill  the  cups  two-thirds  full  with  the  delicious  brown  mix- 
ture and  add  thick  beaten  cream.  This  addition  constitutes  the 
making  of  the  famous  Vienna  chocolate.  Boil  in  a  double  boiler,  or 
stir  constantly  while  boiling. 

Cocoa. — Dissolve  1  teaspoon  heaping  full  of  cocoa  in  half  a  cup- 
ful of  boiling  water ;  when  mixed,  add  a  cupful  of  hot  milk,  stir  until 
it  boils  well,  and  serve  at  once,  sweetened  to  taste.  In  making  cocoa, 
it  will  be  found  much  more  delicious  if  a  little  flavoring  is  added  to 
that  already  in  the  stuff,  as  prepared  at  the  manufactory. 

Iced  Cocoa. — Put  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cocoa  to  each  half 
pint  of  boiling  water  in  a  double  boiler ;  mix,  and  cook  for  5  mjnutes 
and  swtttten.  Take  from  fire,  and  when  cold  add  half  a  cup  of  good 
cream.  Beat  the  whole  until  light.  Fill  the  glasses  half  full  of 
crackfto  Ice,  pour  in  the- cocoa,  and  serve. 


632  TABLE  DRINKS. 

Lemonade. 

Liemonade  (Plain). — Qrate  the  yellow  rind  from  the  lemons. 
Roll  until  soft.  Peel  off  the  bitter  white  rind  of  the  lemon,  cut  in 
two,  and  squeeze  wiih.  a  lemon  squeezer.  Drop  the  pulp  and  grated 
rind  in  the  pitcher  with  tjie  juice.  One  large  lemon,  or  2  small  ones 
will  make  4  small  glasses  of  lemonade.  Stir  in  3  or  4  tablespoonfuls^ 
of  sugar,  and  pour  in  4  glasses  of  water.  Stir  and  add  cracked'  ice, 
or  set  on  ice  for  half  an  hour.  It  is  nicer  strained  before  serving. 
A  circular  slice  of  lemon  in  each  glass  adds  to  the  appearance. 

Lemonade  has  more  "body"  if  the  sugar  used  in  sweetening  is 
reduced  to  a  syrup  before  adding  to  the  lemonade.  Take  half  pound 
of  sugar  and  boil  it  with  1  pint  of  water,  and  the  lemon  rinds,~  to  a 
syrup.     Remove  the  rinds  before  using  to  sweeten. 

Boiled  liemonade'. — The  best  authorities  teach  that  lemonade 
made  with  boiling  water  is  much  more  delicious  than  an  ordinary 
cold  water  lemonade.  Wash  and  wipe  a  lemon  carefully.  Cut  a  slice 
or  two  from  the  centre  of  the  lemon,  and  squeeze  the  remainder  with, 
a  powerful  lemon-squeezfer,  so  as  to  extract  a  little  of  the  essential  oil 
of  the  skin.  Add  sugar  enough  to  sweeten,  and  pour  half  a  pint  of  ■ 
freshly  boiled  water  over  it.  When  perfectly  ice-cold,  serve  it  with  a 
little  cracked  ice  in  the  bottom  of  the  glass,  and  a  slice  of  lemon 
floating  on  the  top.  The  proportions  are,  4  lemons,  half  pound  loaf 
sugar,  3  pints  boiling  water,  for  a  larger  quantity.  Rub  the  lumps 
over  the  rind  of  lemons  to  extract  the  oil,  press  out  juice,  add  boiling 
water,  cool,  ^nd  put  in  ice-box. 

"Egg  liemonadeS. — Egg  lemonade  is  a  delicious  drinkr  ^'ake  2 
fresh  eggs  and  beat  the  whites  and  yolks,  separately,  until  as  light  as 
possible.  To  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  add  the  juice  of  2  large 
lemons  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  and  add 
quickly  a  pint  of  ice  broken  very  fine.  Mix  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
the  eg^s  well  in  one  vessel,  raise  the  lemonade  well  above  them,  and 
pour  it  in ;  turn  quickly  into  another  pitcher,  and  back  again  into  the 
first.  When  well  mixed,  serve  at  once.  A  quicker  way  is  to  add  a 
fresh,  lightly  beaten  egg  to  a  glass  of  strong  lemonade.  A  nourish- 
ing drink  foj:  a  convalescent. 

Milk  Xiemonade. — Squeeze  the  juice  ©f  a  nice  fresh  lemon  into 
a  glass,  remove  all  of  the  seeds,  and  add  siigai-  to  taste.    I  use  2,  level 


TABLE  DRINKS.  533 

tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Have  in  another  glass  some  fresh  sweet 
milk  with  plenty  of  ice  in  it ;  pour  this  cold  milk  on  the  sweetened 
lemon  juice,  stirring  to  prevent  curdling.  Then  place  one  glass  over 
the  other  and  shake  briskly  until  it  foams.  A  mo?t  refreshing,  deli- 
cious drink. 

Pineapple  liemonade. — ''  Pineapple  lemonade  is  a  most  delight- 
ful and  refreshing  summer  drink.  To  make  a  good  lemonade,  make 
a  syrup  of  1  pound  of  sugar  and  1}4  cups  of  water.  Prepare  the 
pineapple  by  grating,  paring  and  removing  the  seeds.  Add  to  it  the 
juice  of  3'lemons  and  the  hot  syrup.  When  cool  mix  with  2  cups  of 
water,  ice,  and  serve,  and  you  have  a  drink  fit  for  the  gods." 

Fruit  Lieiuonade. — Fruit  lemonade  is  a  great  improvement  over 
plain  lemonade,  and  is  made  by  adding  the  juice  of  2  oranges  and  a 
half  pint  of  strawberries  to  every  half  dozen  lemons.  First  roll  the 
lemons  and  carefully  scrape  off  any  small  black  specks  that  may  ap- 
pear upon  the  surface ;  then,  with  a  sharp  knife,  slice  them  thin,  taking 
pains  to  remove  the  seeds.  Place  the  lemons  jn  a'pitcher  from  which 
the  drink  is  to  be  served,  and  pour  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  over 
them.  Then,  with  a  wooden  pestle,  mash  the  lemons  well,  and  add 
the  other  fruit  juice.  Heap  a  pint  of  chopped  ice  ov^r  all  and  allow 
it  to  stand  a  few  moments  before  adding  the  water  and  remainder  of 
sugar.  This  receipt  should  make  fully  3  pints  of  finely-flavored  lem- 
onade. The  amount  of  sugar  required  must  depend  upon  the  acidity 
of  the  fruit.  When  strawberries  are  not  in  season,  blood  oranges  may 
be  substituted,  and  the  flavor  will  be  enhanced  by  the  addition  of 
small  cubes  of  pineapple. 

Orangreade. — Slice  2  oranges  and  1  lemon ;  pour  over  them  1 
quart  of  boiling  water,  sweeten  to  taste.  Place  on  ice  to  cool.  This 
is  delicious. 

Ginirerade. — Half  a  cup  of  >inegar,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  teaspooii- 
fuls  of  ginger.  Stir  thoroughly ;  put  in  a  quart  pitche;-  and  fill  with 
ice  water. 

Ginirer  Beer.— A  glass  of  home-made  ginger  beer,  with  a  lump 
of  ice  in  it,  is  always  a  pleasant  drink  on  a  hot  day.  Take  a  cjeep 
earthenware  kettle,  slice  4  lemons,  place  therir  In  the  kettle,  add  i^ 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  and  1%  ounces  of  root-ginger,  slightly  bruised. 
Pour  over  these  ingredients  2  gallons  of  boiling  water,  and  when 
nearly  cold  pour  in  a  dessertspoonful  of  fresh  brewers'  yeast.     Cover 


534  TABLE  DRINKS. 

this  with  a  thin  cloth,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  for  24  liours.  Strain 
and  bottle  it,  and  place  in  a  cool  cellar.  Where  lemons  are  not  at 
hand,  1  tablespo«i©%J  of  citrip  acid  and  1  teaspponful  of  essence  of 
fcmon  can  be  used  in  place  of  each  lemon. 

Gingerette. — :Eut  2  gallons  of  water,  8  sliced  leniQns,  seeds  re- 
moved, and  2  ounces  of  bruised  ginger-root  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and 
boil  10  minutes.  While  this  is  boiling,  put  4  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar  in  2  gallons  of  cold  water ;  add  1  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  and 
Btir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Turn  all  in  a  large  stone  crock  or 
jar,  mix  well  and  add  three-fourths  cup  of  yeast.  Let  it  stand  over 
\iight,  and  bottle  after  straining.     Healthful,  cooling  and  refreshing. 

Hop  Beer. — Boil  1  teacup  of  loose  hops,  strain  over  1  teaspoon- 
ful  ginger,  and  1  teacup  of  molasses ;  add  water  until  lukewarm ;  dis- 
solve 1  yeast-cake  and  add.  Put  into  a  gallon  jug  and  fill  with  luke- 
warm water.  (The  yeast  must  not  be  scalded.)  Set  in  tin  pan  and 
pour  boiling  water  round  it  and  let  work  over  night.  When  worked, 
cork  and  set  in  cool  place. 

Boot  Beer. — For  each  gallon  of  water  to  be  used,  take  hops,  bur- 
dock, yellow  dock,  sarsaparilla,  dandelion,  and  spikenard  roots, 
bruised,  of  each  one-half  ounce.  Boil  about  20  minutes  and  strain ; 
while  hot  add  8  or  10  drops  of  oils  of  spruce  and  sassafras  mixed  in 
equal  portions ;  when  cool  enough  not  to  scald  yoiir  hand,  strain  and 
add  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  molasses,  two-thirds  of  a  pint ; 
or  sugar,  one-half  pound,  gives  it  about  the  right  sweetness.  Keeip 
these  proportions  for  as  many  gallons  as  wished.  After  all  is  mixed 
let  it  stand  in  a  jar  with  a  cloth  thrown  over  it,  to  work  about  2 
hours,  then  bottle  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  In  about,  3  days  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.  Excellent  and  wholesome..  Beer  bottles  with  patent 
corks  are  best  for  bottling  all  these  home-made  beers. 

Spruce  Beer. — Put  a  quart  of  molasses  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  gal- 
lon of  water  and  half  an  ounce  each  of  white  ginger-root  and  sassa- 
fras. Set  over  the  fire  and  let  simmer  for  2^  hours,  strain  into  a 
large  stone  jar,  add  1]4  gallons  more  water.  When  lukewarm,  stir 
in  half  a  yeast  cake,  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  8  hours. 
Bottle,  add  10  raisins  to  each  bottle,  cork  securely,  and  set  on  ice  for 
3  days,  when  the  beer  is  ready  for  use. 

Konmis,  or  Milk  Beer. — ^Take  3  quarts  of  fresh,  rich  milk,  3 
of  hot  water,  half  pound  of  white  *igar,  and  1  teacup  of  good  yeast; 


TABLE  DRINKS. 


635 


dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water,  add  to  the  milk,  let  the  mixture  cool 
till  lukewarm;  and  then  add  the  yeast ;  set  the  whole  in  a  warm  place, 
as  you  would  for  bread  to  rise,  stirring  it  every  20  minutes,  and  in  5  or 
6  hours  it  will  be  slightly  sparkling,  and  siftall  bubbles  will  rise  to 
the  surface  when  stirred.  Now  put  into  very  stout  bottles,  tie  down 
corks  and  set  the  bottles  in  a  cooT  place.  A  thick  mass  of  casein  will 
form  on  the  surface,  and  when  it  begins  to  separate,  twice  a  day  for 
several  days  shake  the  bottle,  and  this  will  fall  in  a  powder  to  the 
bottom.  When  2  days  old  it  is  ready  for  use,  and  it  will  keep  a 
week,  but  is  best  when  fiom  2  to  4  days  old.  It  is  highly  efferves- 
cent, and  a  champagne  top  should  be  used  in  the  bottle.     Turn  the 


mouth  into  a  pitcher,  covering  the  pitcher  with  a  cloth,  and  let  the 
liquid  out  very  carefully.  It  should  properly  be  used  3  times  a  day, 
a  glass  before  each  meal.  In  starting  a  new  lot,  instead  of  yeast  use 
a  bottle  of  old  koumis.  If  there  be  too  much  alcohol  generated,  put 
in  less  sugar.  This  is  recommended  for  a  weak  stomach,  and  is 
healthful  for  young  children. 

Raspberry  Cordial. — Real  raspberry  cordial  is  prepared  by 
mashing  4  quarts  of  ripe  berries  in  a  stone  jar,  with  1  pound  of  white 
sugar.  Pour  over  them  1  quart  of  the  best  cider  vinegar,  and  set  the 
jar  in  the  hot  sunshine  for  4  hours,  after  whith  the  mixture  is 
strained,  bottled  and  sealed.     Lay  the  bottles  on  their  sides  in.  a  cool 


636  TABLE  DRINKS. 

cellar,  and  for  drinking  mix  in  the  proportions  of  2  tablespoonfuls  to 
a  tumbler  of  iced  water. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — To  4  quarts  of  red  raspberries  piit  vinegar 
enough  to  cover,  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Scald  and  strain  it,  add  1 
pound  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice,  boil  it  20  minutes  and  bottle,  I( 
will  keep  for  years.  To  1  glass'  of  water  add  a  great  spoonful.  A 
most  refreshing  drink  for  the  sick. 

Strawberry  Vinegar. — Make  in  the  same  manner  as  Raspberry 
Vinegar.     Currant  Vinegar  may  also  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Currant  Shrub.—Pick  thoroughly  ripe  currants,  not  overripe,  or 
the  shrub  will  have  a  purple  color.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag  or 
other  heavy  cloth.  Take  a  pint  of  currant  juice,  add  to  this  some 
block  or  granulated  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  ice-chest  until  ready 
for  use.  Pour  some  in  a  glass  and  add  water  to  suit  the  taste.  The 
currant  and  sugar  can  stand  on  the  ice  for  24  hours,  then  make  fresh* 
Red  raspberries  can  be  used  in  the  same  way,  only  add  a  very  little 
currant  juice  to  give  it  character. 

Fruit  Sherbet. — Fruit  sherbets  can  easily  be  made  at  home,  and 
they  are  quite  as  good  as  those  sold  at  the  confectioner's.  Mash  any 
ripe  fruit,,  and  pass  it  through  a  coarse  sieve  and  then  through  a  fine 
sieve.  To  every  quart  of  juice  add  a  quart  of  water  and  sweeted" 
with  powdered  sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  dislsolved,  strain  again  and 
keep  in  ice-box  till  wanted. 

Fruit  Syrups. — With  a  good  supply  of  syrups,  which  should 
occupy  a  conspicuous  place  in  every  cooling-room,  many  refreshing 
and  pleasant  drinks  can  be  quickly  mixed.  Syrups  made  at  home 
from  the  best  and  freshest  fruit  are  much  better  than  most  that  can  be 
got  from  the  chemists.  Cordials  that  are  on  sale  rarely  contain  any 
genuine  fruit  juice.  The  best  receptacles  for  the  fruits  and  juices 
during  the  different  processes  to  which  they  must  be  submitted  are 
those  made  of  stone  and  granite  ware.  Tin  vessels  not- only  discolor 
the  syrup,  but  will  often  impart  an  unpleasant  taste. 

A  refreshing  drink,  quickly  made,  is  that  evolved  by  putting  into 
a  tumbler  a  liberal  tablespoonful  of  almost  any  kind  of  syrup — ^pine- 
apple is  always  successful — a  tablespoonful  of  thick  cream,  and  then 
filling  the  glass  from  a  syphon  of  iced  soda-water.  This  is  a  drink 
particularly  suitable  for  garden  and  tennis  parties.  Straws  should  be 
furnished  for  such  drinks  as  contain  cracked  ice  and  fruit  slices.    A 


TABLE  DRINKS.  53T 

delicious  beverage  can  be  made  by  taking  3  bananas  and  rubbing 
them  through  a  sieve;  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Pour  over  the 
pulp  a  half-pint  of  boiling  water.  When  cold,  stir  it  well,  sweeten 
and  strain.     Then  add  a  bottle  of  soda-water  and  cracked  ice. 

Delicious  fruit  syrups  which  ought  to  be  kept  on  hand  for  these 
drinks  are  only  the  fruit  juices  impregnated  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  sugar  to  preserve  them  and  retain  them  in  the  fluid  state.  A  sure 
way  to  prepare  a  good  syrup  is  to  use  powdered  loaf  sugar,  mixing 
it  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  The 
dish  should  be  placed  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  thus  the  small 
particles  of  sugar  become  dissolved  without  any  risk  of  burning. 

Beverages  concocted  by  the  use  of  syrups  are  the  most  popular, 
and  the  syrups  that  should  ever  be  kept  on  hand  are  spiced  black- 
berry, raspberry,  orange,  quince,  apple  and  peach,  syrup  of  orange 
peel,  strawberry,  pineapple,  pear,  cherry,  lemon,  essence  of  lemon  or 
orange,  and  mixed  syrup.  This  latter  syrup,  of  excellent  flavor,  may 
be  made  by  mixing  two  different  fruits  together,  as  raspberry,  red  or 
black,  and  currants,  or  raspberries  with  cherries.  Lemon  juice  may 
be  added  to  apple,  and  pineapple  is  a  fine  addition  to  any  of  the  fruit,-^ 
but  is  rather  expensive  for  liberal  use. 

Currant  Syrup, — ^Take  3  pounds  of  red  and  3  pounds  of  white 
currants;  1  pound  of  cherries  or  1  pouiid  of  raspberries  would  be  an 
improvement,  but  they  can  be  dispensed  with ;  bruise  the  fruit  slightly 
and  put  it  into  an  earthen  jar;  cover  this  closely,  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  cold  water  and  let  the  fruit  simmer  gently  until  the  juice  flows 
freely;  strain  and  leave  until  the  next  day  in  a  cool  place.  Pour  off 
the  juice,  weigh,  and  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Let  simmer, 
and  stir  frequently,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Skim  carefully,  and  then 
put  in  an  earthen  jar  to  cool.  In  12  hours  it  maybe  put  into  a 
small-sized  dry  bottle,  corked  and  sealed,  and  stored  in  a  cool  but 
dry  place.  When  mixed  with  cold  water  it  makes  a  refreshing  sum- 
mer drink,  and  is  especially  suited  to  invalids. 

Cherry  Water. — Bruise  and  rub  through  a  hair-sieve  enough 
ripe  cherries  to  produce  a  pint  of  juice.  Add  to  this  a  pound  of 
pulverized  sugar,  a  quart  of  water  and  sufficient  ice  to  cool. 

Cranberry  Water. — Boil  craaberries  with  half  their  weight  in 
sugar,  and  half  their  measure  of  water ;  simmer  half  an  hour  and 
strain  through  a  jelly-bag.    Cool  and  drink  with  cracked  ice. 


538  TABLE  DRINKS. 

Fruit  Punches  (Temperance). 

PineapplelPunch.— Pineapple  punch  for  a  summer  drink :  The 
juice  of  6  oranges  and  6  lemons,  si^gar  to  taste,  adding,  to  chopped 
ice,  some  sliced  pineapple,  and  pouring  over  it  2  quarts  of  water. 
...  Orange  Pimcb. — The  following  recipe  is  given  fQi;afruit  drink 
suitable  for  a  luncheon :  It  is  made  from  orange  juice,  and  is  pro- 
nounced a  very  pleasant  drink.  The  juice  is  served  in  tall  glasses, 
and  is  undiluted;  Into  each  glass  are  dropped  4  slices  of  banana,  a 
Tokay  grape  cut  and  seeded,  a  slice  from  a  tart  apple  and  a  pitich  of 
sugar.  The  drink,  of  course,  is  intended  to  be  sipped  through  th^ 
courses,  and  may  be  the  only  one  served. 

Lemon  Punch. — Put  1  pound  of  sugar  and  1  quart  of  water  over 
the  fire  to  boil.  When  boiling  begins,  add  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Continue  boiling  15  minutes,  and  then  set  it  away  to  cool.  Add  the 
juice  of  4  lemons  and  3  oranges.     Ice  and  serve. 

Fruit  Puncli. — Put  1  pint  of  water,  1  pound  of  sugar,  and  chip- 
ped yellow  rind  of  a  lemon  on  to  boil.  Boil  6  minutes  after  it  begins 
to  boil.  Strain,  and  while  hot  add  1  banana  slicedj  1  pineapple  grated, 
and  quarter  pound  of  stoned  cherries.  When  ready  to  serve,  add 
juice  of  8  lemons.  Pour  it  in  a  punch  bowl,  place  in  the  centre  a 
large  piece  of  ice  and  pour  in  '2  quarts  of  apollinaris,  mix  and  serve.  - 
A  dozen  strawberries  may  be  sliced  in  at  the  lAst  moment. 

Soda  Water. — ^The  soda  water  that  is  best  and  purest  is  that 
which  is  made  at  home,  and  here  is  the  formula  for  it :  Simple  syrup, 
12  ounces; 'flavor,  5  ounces  of  any  good  fruit  juice;  citric  acid,  1 
ounce.  To  serve  put  1  ounce  of  syrup  in  an  ordinary  tumbler  and 
fill  two-thirds  with  water.  Then  add  a  small  amount  of  bicarbonate 
of  soda  on  the  end  of  a  spoon.     Stir  rapidly  and  drink. 

Soda  Water  Powders. — Have  put  in  blue  paper  30  grainf  of  car- 
bonate of  soda,  in  white  paper  25  grains  of  tartaric  acid.  Dissolve 
the  soda  powder  in  half  a  glass  of  water  and  stir  into  it  the  acid,  and 
drink  while  effervescing.  If  you  desire  syrup,  make  it  out  of  sugar 
boiled  in  water,  and  flavor  as  you  like.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the 
sjrrup.     Excellent  to  allay  thirst  in  warm  weather. 

Mead. — One  quart  of  boiling  water,  one-half  pint  of  molasses,  2^ 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  bne-half  ounce  of  flavoring  extract,  2  ounces 
of  tartaric  acid.    Put  the  water,  sug^r,  molasses  and  acid  together, 


\ 

TABLE  DRINKS. 


639 


and  when  the  mixture  is  cold  add  the  extract,  which  may  be  the 
essence  of  wintergreen  or  sassafras,  or  any  other^  kind  used  for  such 
a  purpose.  Bottle,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place.  To  make  the 
mead,  place_2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup  in  a  glass  of  ice  water,  stir 
until  well  mixed,  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  bicarbonate 
of  soda  to  render  the  drink  effervescent. 

—  Sterilizing  Milk. — Provide  6  or  8  half-pint  bottles,  according 
to  the  number  of  times  the  child  is  fed  during  the  24  hours.  Put 
the  proper  amount  of  food  for 
one  feeding  in  each  bottle,  and 
use  a  tuft  of  cotton  batting  as  a 
stopper.  Have  a  saucepan  that 
the  bottles  can  stand  in  conve- 
niently. Invert  a  perforated  tin 
pie  plate  in  the  bottom,  and  put 
in  enough  water  to  come  above 
the  milk  in  the  bottles.  .Stand 
the  bottles  on  it ;  when  the  water 
boils  draw  the  saucepan  to  a 
cooler  part  of  the  stove,  where 
the  water  will  remain  near  the 
boiling  point,  but  not  actually 
boiling.  Cover  the  saucepan,  and 
let  the  bottles  remain  in  it  1  hour, 
cool  place  in  winter. 

SarsaparUla  Mead. — Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Spanish  sarsa- 
parilla  in  water  for  5  hours,  keep  enough  water  on  it  so  that  when  it 
is  strained  off  there  will  be  a  quart  of  the  liquid,  after  straining  add 
to  this  "quart  of  liquid  of  sarsaparilla  4  pounds  of  granulated  sugar 
and,  2  ounces  of  tartaric  acid.  Allow  a  wineglassful  of  this  prepara- 
tion and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  half  a  pint  of  water. 

Champagne  Cider.^Get  the  best  apple  cider  and  freeze  it.  Draw 
out  the  cider,  put  into  the  bottles,  boil  the  corks,  which  must  be  good 
ones,  and  drive  the  soft  corks  down  in  the  bottles,  and  in  a  few 
days  (weeks  or  months  are  better)  you  will  have  a  fine,  sparkling 
champagne. 

Sweet  Cider  (to  Keep).— Let  sweet  cider  be  heated  carefully 
up  to  boiling  point.    Skim  and  seal  up.    The  best  way  to  heat  it  is 


Put  them  in  the  ice-box,  or  a 


540  TABLE  DRINKS. 

to  put  it  in  a  glazed  jug.  Set  the  jug  in  boiling  water  and  keep  it 
there  until  the  cider '-comes  to  a  boiling  point.  Then;  remove,  cork 
the  jug  and  seal  it.  ' 

Sweet  Cider  (to  Keep). — II.  When  new  cider  is  beginning  to 
ferment,  add  to  it  (mixing  thoroughly)  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar 
to  every  gallon  of  cider.  The  sugar  arrests  fermentation.  Keep  the 
cask  in  a  cool  place,  and  use'"as  required.  It  has  been  kept  perfectly 
sweet  in  this  manner  for  two  years. 

Cold  Milk  Shake. — Take  a  pint  of  fresh  milk  that  has  not  .been 
skimmgd,  a  few  dnSps  of  your  favorite  essence,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  mix  them  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  quart  pitcher  with  half  a 
pint  of  pounded  ice.  -Take  your  egg-beater,  one  that  turns  on  a 
crank,  and  beat  the  mixture  for  a  moment,  stirring  briskly.  It  will- 
foam  to  the  top  of  the  pitcher  in  no  time,  and  when  it  does,  it  is  ready 
to  drink.     It  is  delicious. 

Oatmeal  Harvest  Drink.-^Stir  a  pint  of  oatmeal  into  a  pail  of 
ice  water.  Nobody  seems  to  be  able  to  tell  the  peculiar  properties 
of  oatmeal  as  a  drink,  but  that  it  is  ^  great  cooler  and  a  pleasant 
stimulant  there  is  no  doubt. 

Some  Medicinal  Liquors. 

Spiced  Blackberry  Brandy. — One  gallon  brandy  or  whiskey,  2 
boxes  fresh  blackberries,  5  cents'  worth  stick  cinnamon,  5  cents' 
worth  cloves,  or  12  cloves  to  a  bottle ;  10  cents'  worth  candied  orange 
or  lemon  peel,  three-quarters  cupful  of  sugar  to  each  bottle.  Use 
quart  bottles.  Stand  bottles  in  the  sun  4  wef  ks.  Excellent  for  sum- 
mer diseases.     A  tried  recipe. 

Blackberry  Wine. — To  2  quarts  of  blackberry  juice  add  3  quarts 
of  water  (put  the  fruit  in  the  water  after  the  juice  has  been  pressed 
from  it  and  strain),  add  5  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  one-half  pound 
seed  raisins ;  be  sure  to  seed  the  raisins,  as  the  seeds  give  the  wine  a 
brackish  taste;  mix  all  well  together,  and  put  in  a  large  jug;  cork 
loosely ;  set  in  a  cool  cellar.  It  will  take  about  six  weeks  to  work. 
Then-cork  tightly  and  let  it  remain  inAhe  jug  three  months  longer, 
then  strain  and  bottle,  seal.  Blackberry  wine  possesses  highly 
medicinal  qualities. 


Scientists  tell  us-that  the  food  value 
of  sugar  is  very  great.    A  pound  of  sugar 
contains  much  more  energy  and  power  to 
support  animal  life  than  a  pound  of  meat. 
If  candy  is  taken  under  such   conditions 
that  it  will  not  derange  the  digestive  apparatus,  it  is 
perfectly  wise  and  rational  to  be  a  candy-eater.     And 
if  candies  are  to  be  eaten,  those  prepared  at  home  are 
sure  to  be  free  from  injurious  ingredients* 

Colorings  for  Candies. — The  colorings  most  used  in  candies  are 
pink,  yellow,  amber  or  light  brown,  green  and  dark  red,  and  from 
combining  these  many  tints  can  be  obtained.  You  can  prepare  all 
these  at  home. 

Cochineal. — Use  this,  a  drop  at  a  time,  carefully,  as  it  will  color 
very  deeply.    A  small  quantity  will  go  a  good  way. 

Yellow. — Get  ten  cents'  worth  of  Spanish  saffron,  and  boil  it  in 
half  a  pint  of  water  till  reduced  one-quarter.  Strain  this  liquid  through 
muslin,  squeezing  hard.     This  is  also  a  very  strong  coloring  fluid. 

Green. — Pistache  candy  gets  its  name  from  its  green  coloring, 
supposed  to  be  obtained  from  the  nuts,  that  are  qvite  tasteless  and 
very  costly.  The  flavor  really  is  obtained  from  bitter  almond,  or 
almond  and  orange  flower  water,  while  the  color  is  made  from  spinach. 
See  rule  before  given. 

Cbocolate  Caramels. — So  many  receipts  for  chocolate  caramels 
call  for  cream,  but  i^  is  not  really  necessary  to  use  it  when  one  has 
good  butter.  Here  is  a  receipt  which  is  cheap,  simple,  and  never  - 
fails  :  One  cupful  molasses,  and  2  teacupfuls  of  white  sugar  ;  dissolve 
over  a  fire,  and  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  ppund  of  grated  chocolate.  Boil  until  a  small  quantity,  dropped 
in  ice  water,  becomes  quite  firm,  then  pour  into  greased  pans,  and 
when  cool  cut  iiito  squares,  which  may  be  wrapped  in  greased  squares 
of  paper.  The  chocolate  need  not  be  grated ;  break  the  large  cake 
in  halves,  and  put  it  in;  the  hea|  rapidly  dissolves  it,  and  it  is  a  waste 
of  time  to  grate  it. 


642  CANDIES. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — II.  A  more  simple  method  of  preparing 

the  caramels  with  good  results,  is  to  take  1  pint  of  New  Orleans 
molasses  and  1  pint  of  brown  sugar,  and  cook  till  brittle  when  tried 
in  water.  Then,  just  before  removmg  from  the  fire,  add  half  a  cake 
of  Baker's  chocolate.     They  have  a  fine  flavor. 

Ifut  Caramels. — Use  the  first  rule  given  for  caramels.  Omit  the 
chocolate,  and  add  1 1^  cupfuls  of  chopped  peanuts  or  other  nuts, 
i^hop  them  quite  fine. 

Cream  Caramels. — Half  a  pound  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated 
fine ;  sift  2  pounds  of  white  sugar ;  put  with  it  1  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  ^1  teacupful  thick  sweet  cream.  '  Cook  these  ingredients 
until  the  mixture  candies  (it  takes  about  20  minutes'  hard  boiling). 
After  taking  from  the  fire,  put  in  1  teaspOonful  of  vanilla;  this  makes 
the  dark  part.   . 

For  the  Cream. — Take  3  cupfuls  of  finest  sifted  white  sugar  and 
1  cupful  cream;  ]^oil  20  minutes  ;  do  not  stir  much.  Flavor  with  the 
juice  and  grated  peel  of  an  orange.  Butter  a  dish,  pour  upon  it  a 
layer  of  the  dark  part,  letting  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  partly 
hardened.  Next,  add  a  layer  of  the  white  cream,  which  also  allow  a 
few  minutes  to  harden.  Lastly,  cover  with .  another  layer  of  the 
chocolate  ;  wh^n  iiearly  hard  cut  in  squares. 

Tutti-Frutti  Caramels. — Half  a  cupful  of  creani  and  2  cupfuls  of 
powdered  sugar ;  boil  5  minutes  in  a  granite  kettle,  counting  from  the 
time  it  boils  all  over.  Place  the  kettle  in  cold  water  and  beat  it  until 
stiff  enough  to  hold  candied  fruit.  Add  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
candied  fruit,  cut  fine,  and  pour  the  cream  into  a  narrow  bread  pan, 
buttered  or  lined  with  paraffin  paper.  The  second  layer  is  the  same, 
using,  in  place  of  the  fruit,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  1  small  square 
of  chocolate,  melted.  The  third  layer  is  colored  pink  with  cochineal, 
and  flavored  with  chopped  almonds.  The  fourth  layer  is  like  the 
first.     Cut  in  squares,  ' 

'  Jujulbe  Paste.— Take  2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  one-quarter  of  a  pound  - 
of  gum  arable  and  1  pint  of  water.  Flavor  with  the  essence  of 
lemon  and  a  grain  of  cochineal,  Let  the  mixture  stand  until  the 
gum  is  dissolved  in  a  warm  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  then  draw 
forward  and  cook  until  thick ;  try  in  cold  water.  It  should  be  lim- 
ber and  bend  when  cold.  Pour  in  buttered  pans,  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick.    When  cool,  roll  up  in  a  scroll. 


CANDIES.  643 

Barley  Sugar. — Dissolve  1  yi  pounds  of  loaf  or  granulated  sugar 
in  one-half  pint  of  water ;  add  the  white  of  1  egg.  When  it  has 
boiled  sufficiently  to  snap  in  cold  water,  add  the  strained  juice  of  1 
large  lemon.  Boil  quickly  until  it  candies  as  before ;  then  pour  on  a 
buttered  slab  or  large  platter.  When  it  cdols,  cut  with  a  pair  o{ 
scissors  into  narrow  strips,  cut  these  in  squares,  or  twist  them  slightly, 
place  on  waxed  paper  to  harden,  "then  pack  away  in  a  close-covered 
jar  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. 

Ice  Cream  Candy. — Bo^  3  cups  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one-half  cup  of  water  together,  but  do 
not  stir  the  syrup  at  all  while  boiling.  Boil  until,  when  a  little  is 
dropped,  into  cold  water,  it  is  brittle.  Turn  on  to  a  large,  well-but- 
tered platter  or  a  marble  slab  that  has  been  oiled,  and>  as  it  cools, 
fold  the  edges  toward  the  centre.  As  soon  as  it  can  be  handled,  pull 
it  until  it  is  white.     Flavor  to  suit. 

Cream  Candy. — Four  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  water, 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Boil  all  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Pour  on 
buttered  tins  to  cool. 

Molasses  Candy.~One  quart  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar, 
1  cupful  granulated  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoonful 
soda.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  vinegar ;  put  in  with  molasses  and 
butter,  and  boil,  stirring  often.  As  soon  as  it  hardens  when  dropped 
in  water,  it  is  done.  Then  stir  the  soda  in  quickly  and  pour  in  but- 
tered pans  to  cool.     Pull  until  white. 

Molasses  Candy. — II.  One  pint  molasses,  1  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold 
water.  Pour  in  well-greased  pans,  very  thin.  If  the  candy  is  to 
contain  nuts  of  any  kind,  they  should  be  placed  in  the  pan  before 
pouring  the  candy.     Or  it  can  be  pulled  as  above. 

Cream  Almonds. — Make  cream  candy  as  per  rule  for  chocolate 
creams,  and  form  it  by  hand  around  almond  kernels,  covering  thickly. 
A  crystallized  appearance  may  be  given  by  rolling  them  while  moist 
in  granulated  sugar. 

Peppermint  Drops. — ^Two  cups  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  water ;  boil 

5  minutes,  then  remove  from  fire ;  add  small  half  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  flavor  to  taste  with  oil  of  peppermint  or  checkermint,  and  drop 
quickly  on  buttered  paper. 


544  CANDIES. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Drops. — Grate  the  rind  of  1  orange  or  lemotiy 
and  squeeze  the  juice,  taking  care  to  reject  the  seeds,  add  to  this  a 
pinch  of  tartaric  acid,  then  stir  in  confectioners'  sugar  until  it  is  stiff , 
enough  to  form  into  small  balls  the  size  of  small  marbles.    This  is 
delicious  candy. 

Lemon  Drops. — II.  Upon  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  pour  enough 
lemon  juice  to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  it  to  a  thick  syrup ;  drop  on  but- 
tered plates  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  harden. 

Wintergreen,  Ginger  or  Rose  Drops. — Make  as  for  pepper- 
mints, and  flavor  to  taste.  Color  the  rose  with  cochineal.  For  the 
ginger  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  Jamaica  ginger. 

Cream  Peppermints.— Two  cupfuls  of  confectioners'  sugar,  or 
fine  granulated  will  do,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  boiled  together 
about  three  minutes,  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  syrup  looks 
elea.r.  Do  noi  Stir  the  syrup.  When  done,  pour  into  a  bowl,  add 
one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  andjialf  a  teaspoonful 
of  essence  of  peppermint.  Beat  with  a  spoon  until  white  and  creamy 
— about  three  minutes — then  drop  on  paper  or  tins  slightly  buttered. 
The  paper  must  be  perfectly  smooth,  and  the  spoon  twirled  as  you 
drop  the  cream,  or  the  peppermints  will  not  be  round.  The  dropping 
must  be  done  very  rapidly,  as  the  cream  hardens  quickly. 

"Vinegar  Taffy. — ^Three  cupfuls  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cupful 
vinegar,  one-half  cupful  water,  butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  boil  without 
stirring  until  it  will  candy  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Flavor 
with  lemon  and  pour  out  on  a  buttered  dish.  Cut  into  squares  just 
before  it  hardens.  Some  cooks  stir  in  ^  teaspoonful  of  soda  just 
before  taking  up. 

Maple  Wax. — Boil  maple  sugar  with  a  little  water  to  a  thick 
syrup.  When  a  little  will  harden  readily  on  snow  or  ice,  it  is  ready. 
Then  pour  it  over  a  great  pan,  either  of  closely  packed  snow  or  ice. 
It  will  make  sheets  of  brittle,  melting  candy  that  is  most  luscious 
and  very  easily  prepared. 

Maple  Balls. — Two  cups  maple  sugar,  1  cup  water ;  cook  without 
stirring,  and  when  it  becomes  brittle  dropped  in  water,  add  heaping 
tablespoon  butter.  Beat  until  creamy ;  make  into  balls ;  add  halves 
of  English  walnuts  on  both  sides.     Lay  on  buttered  paper  to  harden. 

Maple  Chocolate  Balls. — Half  pound  maple  sugar,  broken  fine, 
and  dissolved  with  one-fourth  cupful  cold  water.    When  perfectly 


CANDIES.  545 

dissolved,  let  it  boil  hard  five  minutes.  Break  up  quarter  cake  of 
chocolate  and  put  in  a  bowl  over  boiling  water  to  melt ;  this  can  be 
done  by  removing  the  lid  frotji  the  tea-kettle  and  setting  the  bowl  in 
its  place.  Take  the  sugar  from  the  fire,  put  in  a  cool  place  and  beat 
until  stiff  enough  to  make  into  balls  about  the  size  of  marbles.  Place 
on  buttered  plates  to  harden  and  then  drop  one  by  one  into  the 
melted  chocolate.  Turn  with  a  fork  until  completely  covered  and, 
place  on  buttered  paper  to  harden. 

Butter  Scotch. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  half  cup 
of  butter;  boil  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water;  then 
pour  in  a  greased  pan.  Some  put  peanuts  in  the  pan  before  turning 
in  the  candy. 

Meringue  Kisses. — Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  until  quite  stiff, 
add  pinch  of  salt,  teaspoonful  of  flavoring,  1  cup  of  fine  granulated 
sugar ;  beat  with  a  fork  until  very  stiff  Drop  on  buttered  paper  and 
bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Popcorn  Candy. — Make  a  common  molasses  candy.  Have  corn 
nicely  popped ;  grind  it  fine  in  a  coffee-mill,  and  when  the  candy  is 
ready  to  remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  as  much  of  the  ground  corn  as 
-possible,  and  pour  the  whole  into  tin  trays  or  dripping-pans  (well 
buttered),  marking  squares  when  partly  cool.  This  is  a.  very  delicious, 
tender  candy. 

Sugared  Popcorn. — Put  1  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water  and  1  tahlespoonful  of  butter  into  a  deep  kettle, 
and  boil  until  it  will  candy,  when  a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  and  throw  in  immediately  a  little 
more  than  3  quarts  of  nicely  popped  corn,  stirring  briskly  all  the 
time.  When  the  syrup  is  well  mixed  with  the  corn,  each  kernel  will 
be  found  separate  from  the  rest  and  crystallized  with  sugar. 

Popcorn  Balls. — Put  1  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan, 
and  wet  it  with  half  a  cupful  of  cider  (or  vinegar  and  water  mixed). 
When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  half  a  cupful  of  water  and  allow  it 
to  boil  without  stirring  until  it  will  hair  when  dropped  from  a  spoon. 
Have  ready  in  a  large  pan  or  chopping  bowl  11  or  12  double  handfuls 
of  well-popped  corn.  By  double  handfuls  is  meant  all  one  can  pos- 
sibly hold  between  both  hands.  Pour  the  syrup  over  the  corn,  stir- 
ring fast  until  the  mass  is  well  mixed.  Then  flour  the  hands  and 
make  into  balls.    This  quantity  makes  14  good-sized  balls.    A  little 

COOK— SS 


646  CANDIES. 

red  sugar  can  be  added  to  the  syrup  if  more  fajicy  looking  balls  are 
desired.  The  balls  can  also  be  made  of  molasses,  or  half-and-half 
molasses  and  sugar.  When  possible,  it  is  best  to  get  corn  that  is 
more  than  a  year  old,  as  it  pops  much  better. 

Cough  Candy. — An  excellent  cough  candy  is  made  of  slippery 
elm,  flaxseed  and  sugar.  Soak  ^  gill  of  whole  flaxseed  in  half  a  pint 
of  boiling  water.  In  another  dish  put  a  cupful  of  broken  bits  of  slip- 
pery elm  and  cover  this  also  with  boiling  water.  Let  these  stand  for 
2  hours.  Then  strain  them  both  through  a  muslin  cloth  into  a  sauce- 
pan containing  1}4  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Extract  all  the  liquor 
you  can,  stir  the  sugar  until  it  is  melted,  and  then  boil  it  until  it  turns 
to  candy.  Pour  it  out  at  once,  when  it  reaches  this  point,  on  to  greased 
papers.  This  is  the  old-fashioned  rule.  The  candy  is  more  palatable 
if  the  juice  of  2  lemons  is  added  to  it  after  it  has  cooked  for  10  minutes. 

Hoarhound  Candy. — Boil  2  ounces  of  dried  hoarhcund,  which 
can  be  procured  at  the  druggist's,  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  until 
its  flavor  is  extracted,  that  is,  for  about  30  minutes.  Strain  until  per- 
fectly clear.  Add  to  it  Sj4  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  and  boil  over  a 
quick  fire  until  the  syrup  will  harden  when  a  little  of  it  is  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Pour  into  a  buttered  tin,  and  cut  in  squares  when  it  is 
partly  cooled.         '  « 

Date  Candy. — ^Take  4  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  1  scant  cupful  of 
cold  water,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Let  boil  slowly  until  ready  to  candy, 
not  too  hard.  Cut  dates,  and  remove  the  seeds.  Close  them  again, 
lay  on  a  well-buttered  platter  in  rows  1  inch  apart  each  way,  pour  the 
boiled  candy  over,  and  wKile  cooling  cut  in  squares  so  that  a  date 
will  be  in  each  square. 

Fruit  or  Wut  Candies. — Dates,  figs,  raisins  or  cherries  dried  in 
sugar  and  taken  in  small  lumps  may  be  prepared  according  to  the 
rule  given  above  for  Date  Candy.  Nut-meats  of  various  kinds  may 
be  also  used  in  the  same  manner,  substituting  any  of  these  for  the 
dates  given  above.  A  variation  in  the  candy  may  be  made  by  sub- 
stituting vinegar  or  lemon  juice  for  the  water  used  in  the  before- 
mentioned  recipe. 

Tutti-Frattl  Cream  Candy. — ^Three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  half  a 
cupful  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil  10  minutes,  then  add  1 
cupful  grated  fresh  cocoanut  or  the  desiccated.  Boil  10  minutes  longer, 
ccmeve  from  fire  and  stir  in  1  pound  of  fresh-chopped  figs  or  nut' 


CANDIES.  847 

meats,  half-and-half  with  the  figs.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered 
paper  or  in  fancy  moulds,  or  pour  in  shallow  pans  and  cut  in  squares 
while  cooling.     Raisins  may  be  mixed  with  the  figs. 

Figr  Bock. — Boil  1  cupful  of  sugar  and  three-quarters  of  a  cupful 
of  water  together,  until  the  mixture  turns  to  an  amber  color;  add  a 
little  cream  of  tartar  before  taking  it  from  the  fire.  Have  the  figs  ready 
cut  up  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  mixture  over  them.  When  nearly 
cold  cut  into  square  blocks. 

Cream  Figs. — Beat  the  white  of  an  egg,  stir  in  powdered  sugar 
until  as  stiff  as.  possible,  and  yet  admit  of  dipping  the  figs.  Dip  in 
each  fig  one  or  more  tiihes  until  entirely  covered.  Place  on  a  heater 
to  dry.    * 

Fig  Paste. — ^A  dainty,  inexpensive  candy  is  made  thus:  Chop 
into  bits  and  boil  a  pound  of  figs.  When  soft,  strain  and  press  through 
a  sieve.  Return  to  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  which 
should  be  reduced  to  1  cupful.  Stir  in  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar 
and  cook  down  slowly  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed.  Pour  in  pans 
lined  with  paper.  Let  cook.  Take  out  on  the  paper  and  cut  into 
sections.    Dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

Rose  Candy. — One  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  1  teacup  of  cream, 
mix  it  together,  boil  15  minutes,  fast  stirring  all  the  time;  try  it  by 
dropping  some  in  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  if  right  it  will  not  melt,  but 
feel  gummy;  beat  the  white  of  an. egg  to  a  froth  and  stir  the  candy 
into  it,  divide  it,  color  one  part  with  4  drops  of  cochineal,  flavor  with 
half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  the  other  with  half  teaspoon  of  lemon;  butter 
a  dish,  then  pour  first  one  and  let  it  spread,  then  the  other  on  top; 
when  partly  cool  score  it  across  with  a  knife. 

Candy  Fggs  for  Easter. — Get  tin  moulds  in  egg  shape,  or  use 
small  china  egg  cups.  Melt  half  a  pound  of  chocolate  and  fill  the 
moulds  with  the  liquid,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time.  Wait  a  moment,  and 
then  pour  out  what  will  flow.  The  chocolate  which  adheres  to  the 
mold,  Will,  after  cooling,  form  the  egg,  and  may  be  detached  by  tap- 
ping the  mould  lightly.  Forming  the  perfect  egg  is  equally  easy. 
This  is  done  by  rubbing  the  edge  of  one-half  to  and  fro  over  some 
warm  surface,  and  then  pressing  it  against  the  edges  of  the  cold  egg. 
The  egg  can  be  made  solid  instead  of  hollow ;  but  this,  of  course, 
requires  a  much  larger  quantity  of  chocolate,  or  it  can  be  filled  with 
the  cream  candy  used  for  chocolate  creams,  finely  chopped  English 


548  CANDIES. 

walnuts,  or  anything  of  the  sort.  Th«,eggrs  can  also  be  prepared 
without  moulds  by  shaping  the  cream-candy  filling  with  the  hands 
into  little  eggs,  and  then  dipping  them  by  means  of  a  small  wooden 
skewer  into  the  melted  chocolate,  which,  when  it  cools,  forms  a 
covering. 

[In  any  of  the  recipes  for  cocoanut  candy,  where  it  is  necessary 
to  use  the  desiccated  cocoanut,  it  must  be  soaked  over  night  in  as 
much  milk  as  it  will  absorb,  about  one-half  cupful  of  milk  to  one-half 
pound  of  cocoanut.]      v 

Cocoanut  Candy. — ^Take  the  white  meat  of  cocoanuts,  grate 
coarse  until  you  have  one-half  pound ;  dissolve  one-half  pound  ol 
refined  sugar  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water ;  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  as 
soon  as  it  boils  stir  the  cocoanut  in.  Stir  until  it  is  boiled  to  a  flake ; 
pour  into  a  buttered  pan  or  marble  slab ;  then  cut  in  forms  to  suit, 
when  it  is  nearly  cold. 

Cocoanut  Taflfy. — One  cup  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  and  pour  ii 
enough  sweet  milk  to  cover  the  cocoanut ;  let  soak  while  other  ingre- 
dients are  cooking ;  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar;  boil  about  15  minutes, 
then  put  in  the  cocoanut  and  milk;  Watch  carefully  after  putting  in 
cocoanut,  as  it  will  scorch  very  quickly  if  you  do  not  stir  it.  Cook 
until  brittle  when  dropped  iq  wateir.  Pour  in  a  buttered  tin  and  set 
away  to  cool. 

Orange  and  Cocoanut  Candy. — ^To  2  cupfuls.  of  granulated 
sugar  add  the  grated  rind  and  half  the  juice  of  a  small  orange, 
together  with  enough  cold  water  to  thoroughly  moisten  the  sugar. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  half  a  cupful  of  desiccated  or,  better, 
freshly-grated  cocoanut.  Let  it  boil,  without  stirring,  until  it  stiffens 
in  cold  water,  so  that  you  can  take  it  up  in  a  very  soft  ball.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  set  saucepan  and  all  in  a  cold  place  until  the  syruj) 
is  nearly  cool,  then  stir  vigorously  until  it  becomes  thick  and  white, 
and  pour  quickly  on  a  buttered  plate.     Cut  in  squares. 

Hickory-nut  Candy  (Molasses). — One  pint  of  molasses,  one- 
half  cupful  of  granulated"  sugar.  Let  boil  15  minutes;  then  add  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  hickory  nut.  As  soon  as  it  crisps  when  dropped 
into  cold  water,  add  one-half  teaspponful  of  soda  made  very  fine. 
Stir  quickly ;  then  add  one  pint  hickory-nut  meats.  Four  on  buttered 
tins  to  harden. 


CANDIES.  549 

Hlckory-uut  Candy  (Susrar).-^One  cup  of  hickory-nut  meats, 
two  cups  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  water.  Boil  the  sugar  and 
water  without  stirring  until  thick  enough  to  spin  to  a  thread,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  set  in  cold  water  and  stir  quickly  until  white ;  then  stir 
in  the  nuts. 

Peanut  Candy  (Sugar). — Two  Cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one- 
half  a  cupful  water.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  one-half  tea.- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  dissolve  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  Cook 
)  until  when  dropped  in  cold  water  it  is  brittle.  Then  add  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut;  cook  a  minute  longer.  Pour 
over  a  quart  of  shelled  peanuts  already  spread  in  a  buttered  tin,  and 
set  away  to  cool.  Sometimes  it  is  nice  to  crush  the  peanuts  with  a 
rolling-pin  after  their  skins  have  been  removed.  This  breaks  with  a 
snap. 

Peanut  Candy  (Molasses). — One  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  1  cup  of  peanuts  (shelled),  boil  10  minutesj  add  peanuts 
just  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire.  Put  in  buttered  pan,  and  when 
cool  cut  in  squares.  » 

Salted  Peanuts. — Shell  the  peanuts,  and  blanch  by  peuring 
hot  water  over  them,  so  that  the  skin  will  slip  off  easily.  When  dry, 
stir  them  well  in  melted  butter — 1  tablespoonful  of  butter  is  enough 
for  a  cupful  of  peanuts.  Let  them  dry  again,  and  sprinkle  thoroughly 
with  salt  all  over.  Put  in  a  flat  baking  tin  and  let  them  bake  until  a 
delicious  brown.  Do  not  have  the  oven  too  hot.  You  need  only 
stir  them  2  or  3  times.  It  will  probably  take  about  10  or  15  minutes 
to  brown  them  nicely.  Salted  peanuts  are  a  cheap  and  appetizing  sub- 
stitute for  the  almond. 

Salted  Almonds. — To  salt  a  cupful  of  shelled  almonds,  pour 
boiling  water  over  them,  and  when  they  have  rested  a  moment  drain 
it  off  and  rub  the  skin  off  each  almond  with  the  thumb  and  finger. 
Spread  the  almond  6n  a  pan  fqr  about  5  minutes  in  the  oven  to  dry. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  pure  olive  oil  or  melted  butter  over  them,  and 
toss  until  they  are  thoroughly  coated;  sprinkle  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  salt  over  them  and  toss  the  almonds  again  in  this.  Let 
them  then  rest  in  a  cup  for  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time  spread 
them  on  a  pan  in  a  rather  quick  oven  and  let  them  remain  for  5  or  10 
minutes  or  until  they  are  turned  an  even  golden  brown.  Stir  them 
occasionally  while  browning."  They  must  be  crisp  and  very  delicately 


550  CANDIES. 

colored.  Put  them  on  the  table  at^e  beginning  of  the  dinner,  with 
the  olives  and  pickles,  and  in  any  low,  ornamental  dish.  A  change 
is  to  brown  the  almonds  delicately  in  the  oven,  then  cool,  and  instead 
of  butter,  pu.t  the  unbeaten  white  of  an  egg  in  a.  large  dish  and  stir 
the  almonds  until  they  are  thoroughly  coated.  Then  spread  upon 
plates  and  .sprinkle  with  salt.  Return  them  to  the  oven.  Stir 
frequently. 

Marsb-Mallow  Candy.-^The  foundation  of  candies  made  with 
gum  arable,  that  is,  the  plain  paste,  is  what  is  usually  known  as 
marsh-mallows.  They  are  easy  to  make,  Tiut  yery  tedious,  as  they 
require  beating  an  hour  or  more.  Use  to  make  them  the  very  best 
white  gum  arabic,  powdered,  and  double  its  weight  of  water,  with 
three  times  its  weight  of  sugar.    The  sugar  is.  the  fine  powdered. 

Toasted  Marsli-MallowSi — Hold,  on  a  lohg  iron  skewer,  a  marsh- 
mallow  above  a  bed  of  glowing  coals,  turning  it  over  and  over,  until 
the  paste  grows  golden  brown,  softens,  and  the  crust,  breaking  apart, 
shows  the  soft  white  centre.     Eat  at  once. 

Old  iStyle  Cream  Candies. — Dissolve  1  ounce  of  gum  arabic  in  half 
a  pint  of  waterj'^nd,  strain  it.  Add  one  pint  bf  sWeet  new  milk  or 
cream.  Pour  this  over  3^  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  8  minutes,  dip  a -small 
skimmer  in  the  syrup,  take  it  out  and  blow  through  it.  If  the  candy 
hangs  in  threads  from  the  holes,  it  is  done.  Flavor  with  peppermint, 
vanilla,  or  any  desired  flavoring.  Pour  it  out  on  an  oiled  dish  to 
cool.  As  soon  as  it  cJln  be  handled,  oil  or  butter  your  hands,  and 
pull  it  as  you  would  molasses  candy  until  it  is  Very  whiter  Braid  it 
while  soft,  or  leave  it  in  long,  thick  strips.  If  you  wish  coeoanut, 
add  it  while  the  candy  is  soft,  and  work  it  in  in  the  pulling.  This 
candy  must  be  kept  in  self-sealing  jars  or  it  will  get  very  hard. 

Candled  Violets.— One-half  pint  water,  one-half  pound  granu- 
lated sugar,  put  in  a  bright  tin  pan  over  the  fire,  stir  until  the  sugar 
is  melted,  cook  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread,  remove  from  fire  and 
set  in  a  pan  of'  cold  water.  When  partly  cool,  beat  rapidly  until 
partly  crystallized.  Have  a  quantity  of  double  sweet  violets  (white 
preferred),  cut  off  stems,  drop  in  a  few  at  a  time,  stir  gently.  Lift 
with  wire  tongs  on  to  oiled  paper,  and  leave  to  harden. 


CANDIES.  661 

French  Oandies. 

The  foundation  of  all  French  bon-bons  is  the  French  cream  or 
fondant.     This  is  made  in  the  cooked,  and  the  uncooked  form. 

Frencli  Cream  or  Fondant  (Cooked). — This  French  cream  foutr- 
dation  is  made  of  2  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water,  boiled  in  a- 
bright  saucepan ;  do  not  stir  until  a  little  drop  rolled  between  the 
fingers  forms  a  soft,  creamy  ball.  When  this  stage  is  reached,  beat* 
the  syrup  thoroughly  until  it  is  cool  enough  to  be  moulded  with  the 
hands.  Then  work  it  as  you  would  dough  on  a  stone  platter,  or 
marble  board.  This  fondant  will  keep  for  a  long  time  if  it  is  kept  in 
a  cool  place.  It  can  be  melted  out  at  any  time  by  setting  it  in  a  cup 
of  boiling  water  over  the  stove,  and  made  into  candies.  Some  of  it 
may  be  volored  pink  with  a  little  cochineal,  and  wrapped  around 
blanched  French  almonds,  or  stoned  French  prunes.  Some  of  it  may 
be  rolled  into  creamy  little  balls  about  the  size  of  marblesj_and  dipped 
into  a  melted  cake  of  sweet  chocolate,  whei^  it  becomes  a  chocolate 
cream.  Some  of  it  may  be  colored  pale  green  with  a  little  spinach 
green,  and  filled  with  blanched  almonds  or  pistachio  nuts.  Pistachio 
nuts  are  not  easy  to  obtain,  but  they  may  always  be  purchased  at 
some  of  the  leading  confectioners.  They  generally  cost  one  dollar 
a  pound. 

Cocoanut  Balls. — Cocoanut  balls  are  formed  by  kneading  shred- 
ded cocoanut  into  a  portion  of  the  fondant ;  make  into  balls,  and 
when  cool  brush  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  roll  into  some  grated 
cocoanut. 

Cbocolate  Squares. — Chocolate  squares  are  made  by  mixing  with 
some  of  the  fondant  enough  melted  chocolate  to  give  it  a  rich 
brown  color.  If  too  soft,  add  pulverized  sugar  until  it  can  be 
handled,  and  form  into  squares. 

Chocolate  Creams. — Nip  off  pieces  of  the  fondant  the  size  of 
robins'  eggs,  form  into  cones  and  put  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Melt 
a  cake  of  sweetened  chocolate,  and  proceed  according  to  rule  for 
chocolate  creams  before  given. 

Date  Candy. — Remove  the  seeds  from  some  dates,  and  insert  a 
small  portion  of  the  fondant  for  date  candy. 

Walnut  Creams. — ^Walnut  creams  are  especially  nice  made  with 
the  fondant.    Select  perfect  walnut  kernels.    Cover  them  with  cream, 


552  CANDIES. 

so  that  they  are  completely  concealed  in  the  little  white  ball.  Wrap 
them  in  fanciful  little  colored  papers. 

Chocolate,  Maple  and  Peppermint  Patties. — ^To  make  chocolate 
patties,  melt  some  of  the  softer  fondant  in  a  cup,  and  add  some  finely- 
cut  chocolate,  bitter  or  confectioners' ;  if  too  thick  to  drop,  add  a  few 
drops  of  water.  These  can  be  flavored  if  desired,  and  usually  will  be 
found  harder  than  the  peppermint  or  wintergreen  patties.  Chocolate 
peppermints  are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  peppelrmint  patties,  as 
described  above;  when  hard,  each  one  is  dipped  in  confectioners' 
chocolate  which  has  been  melted  over  steam.  Maple  patties  are 
made  by  cutting  up  2  cupfuls  of  maple  sugar,  adding  1  cupful  of  cold 
water,  and  just  a  speck  of  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  water,  and 
cooking  like  plain  fondant.  When  cold,  melt  and  drop  like  the  other 
patties. 

Frencli  Cream,  or  Fondant  Uncooked. — ^This  cream  is  the  foun- 
dation of  many  candies.  It  is  made  in  the  proportion  of  1  pound  of 
confectioners'  sugar  to  the  white  of  1  egg,  and  as  much  cold  water. 
The  egg  and  water  are  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  then  creamed  with 
sugar.  Then  divide  the  cream  into  as  many  sections  as  you  wish  to 
have  colors  and  flavors.  The  tiniest  drop  of  cochineal  will  tint  a 
beautiful  pink,  and  flavor  this  with  either  rose  or  vanilla.  Flavor 
some  of  the  plain  white  with  vanilla,  and  some  with  lemon.  It  is 
most  satisfactory  to  have  by  far  the  largest  portion  of  the  cream  fla- 
vored with  vanilla.  Then  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  form  both  the 
pink  and  white  into  small  balls.  If  the  cream  is  too  50ft,  stiffen  with 
more  sugar. 

Cream  Walnuts. — On  some  fondants  place  an  English  walnut  meat 
on  each  side ;  on  others,  a  half  of  a  date,  and  roll  almonds  inside  some 
of  the  others.  Then  when  you  have  as  many  cream  walnuts,  dates 
and  almonds  as  you  wish,  use  the  remainder  for  the  chocolate  drops. 

Chocolate  Drops. — For  the  coating  get  the  rough,  sweetened 

chocolate,  which  confectioners  sell  by  the  bulk.     This  may  be  melted 

in  the  chafing-dish/by  being  broken  into  small  lumps  and  stirred  until 

'  it  is  smooth  ahd  glossy.     Then  dip  the  balls  in  the  mixture  until 

covered,  and  drop  on  sheets  of  waxed  paper. 

Nut  Cream. — With  a  portion  of  the  plain  cream — I  am  presuming 
that  you  are  making  the  candies  on  a  large  scale — and  the  broken 
Vts  of  all  the  kinds  of  nuts,  mould  a  loaf,  which  is  to  be  cut  in  slices 


CANDIES.  658 

when  thoroughly  cold ;  or  cut  in  small  squares  and  roll  in  waxed 
paper  if  it  is  to  be  kept.  ^ 

Plum  Pudding  Candy. — Plum  pudding  candy  is  a  collection  of 
all  available  fruits  and  nuts,  held  together  by  a  fondant  of  white  of 
egg  mixed  with  powdered  sugar.  Use  figs,  candied  cherries,  citron, 
pineapple,  raisins,  with  a  light  blending  of  spices,  and  a  few  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped,  or  other  variety  of  nuts.  Mix  the  materials 
thoroughly,  and  pack  in  a  box  or  tin  lined  with  paraffin  paper,  leav- 
ing the  mixture  to  ripen  for  a  few  hours.  It  may  then  be  cut  in  small 
cub'es  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  each  cube  wrapped  in  a  piece  of 
paper,  as  caramels  are  prepared,  or  cut  in  slices.    , 

Orange  Creams. — Instead  of  using  water  with  the  white  of  egg, 
take  a  little  of  the  latter,  as  much  orange  juice,  and  then  the  sugar  to 
make  a  cream  stiff  enough  to  handle.  This  cream  cannot  be  used 
for  any  other  candy,  but  may  be  combined  with  candied  orange ;  but 
this  orange  cream  formed  into  balls  makes  a  delicious  sweetmeat. 
Choose  a  sour  orange  for  these.  Lemon  can  be  made  in  the  same 
way,  and  may  be' used  with  the  orange. 

Coffee  Creams. — By  using  a  little  of  the  white  of  egg  with  coffee 
you  will  have  coffee  creams.  Whenever  any  other  liquid  is  used 
omit  the  water. 

Nougat  Candy. — Boil  together  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup 
of  cold  water  until  a  little  of  it  becomes  brittle  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  Do  not  stir  it  after  the  sugar  melts.  Butter  a  shallow 
'tin — a  biscuit  pan  will  answer — and  cover  the  bottom  closely  with 
blanched  almonds,  the  kernels  of  hickory,  pecan  and  hazel  nuts,  thin 
strips  of  cocoanut,  split  and  stoned  dates  and  bits  of  figs.  When  the 
candy  is  done,  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  pour  it 
over  your  nuts  and  fruits.  Mark  it  into  strips  or  squares  when  it  is 
cool. 

Nougat. ^1,1.  White  of  1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  1 
teaspoonful  vanillai  Put  in  as  much  confectioner's  sugar  as  will 
make  stiff  paste.  Have  ready  the  meats'  of  2  pounds  of  mixed  nuts 
(almonds,  pecans,  English  walnuts,  filberts  and  Brazil  nuts)  chopped 
^ne ;  mix  in.  Put  some  confectioner's  sugar  on  the  moulding-board, 
lay  the  paste,  and  mix  well.  Roll  out  with  a  roUing-pin.  Cut  in 
strips  about  half  an  inch  wide  and  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  put  on 
plates  to  dry. 


Arrange  the  invalid's  tray  as  daintily  as 
^  possible,  and  serve  only  the  amount  he  can  take^ 
for  many  times  the  sight  of  a  large  quantity  of 
food  will  cause  nausea  and  render  it  impossible 
to  taste  a  particle.  And  before  feeding  bathe  the  hands 
and  face  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  hot  water.  _  Good 
nurses  omit  this  sometimes,  but  the  refreshment  gained 
thereby  often  gives  a  relish  to  the  food.  Never  leave 
food  standing  by  a  patient  with  the  hope  that  an  appetite  may  be 
aroused  by  its  presence.  Remove  at  once  and  serve  again  later  on, 
in  fresh  dishes  if  necessary.  Dishes  should  be  heated  if  the  food  i» 
to  be  served  hot,  and  kept  cold  if  to  be  served  cold.  Custards  should 
be  set  in  ice  or  in  pans  of  cold  water.  Serve  food  to  the  sick  at  regu- 
lar intervals,  even  if  only  a  tablespoonful  can  be  taken  at  once ;  it 
'ivill  help  keep  his  strength.  In  dropping  medicine  into  a  spoon, 
place  the  handle  between  the  leaves  of  a  closed  book  lying  on  the 
table,  and  then  both  hands  may  be  used  in  dropping  the  mixture. 
For  nausea  scorch  some  rice,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  arid  drink  as 
hot  as  possible. 

Somie  Donets  for  the  Sick  Boom. — Don't  make  unnecessary  noise. 
Don't  let  doors  squeak ;  oil  them.  Don't  whisper.  Don't  make 
noticeable  and  exaggerated  efforts  at  being  quiet.  Don't  speak  of 
similar  cases  with  fatal  terminations.  Don't  admit  tearful  visitors. 
Don't  keep  the  room  too  hot.  Don't  forget  frequent  ventilation. 
Don't  raise  a  duSt.  Don't  forget  to  bathe  the  patient's  face  and  hands 
frequently  and  wash  the  teeth  and  mouth.  Don't  give  stimulants 
unless  ordered  by  the  physician.  Don't  wake  patient  from  a  sound 
sleep  to  administer  medicine.  Don't  ask  the  patient  "  how  he  feels" 
every  few  moments.  Don't  taste  the  patient's  food  with  his  spoon. 
Don't  masticate  loudly  and  cheerfully  yourself  while  the  patient  is 
dieting.  Don't  prepare  food  in  the  sick  room.  Don't  ask  the  patient 
what  he  wants  to  eat.  Don't  fail  to  have  plenty  of  fresh,  clesui 
towels.  Don't  let  cold  food  get  hot,  or  hot  food  get  cold.  Don't 
let  food  stand  by  the  bed.  Don't  bring  too  much  food  at  a  time. 
Pon't  wet  the  bedclothing  and  dress  in  feeding  the  patient.  Don't 
161 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  555 

make  him  drink  too  fast.  Don't  leave  bureau  drawers  opea  and 
shades  crooked.  Don't  yawn  frequently  and  unreservedly.  Don't 
jar  the  bed.  Don't  rock  vigorously  and  continuously)  Don't  intro- 
duce mournful  and  suggestive  subjects.  In  a  word,  don't  forget  that 
a  sick  person,  if  conscious  at  all,  is  apt  to  have  painfully  acute  per- 
ceptions and  sensibilities,  on  which  trifles  jar  in  a  superlative  degree. 
When  a  patient  cannot  be  raised  from  the  bed  without  risk  of  exhaus- 
tion, a  medicine  tube  or  crockery  feeder  should  be  used,  but  the  same 
appliance,  or  even  one  of  the  same  appearance,  should  not  be  used 
for  administering  both  food  and  medicine. 

To  Keep  Cracked  Ice. — Take  an  ordinary  porcelain  pudding  dish. 
Over.,  the  top  tie  a  large  square  of  clean,  old  white  flannel.  Inside 
the  dish  let  the  flannel  bag  down  so  as,  by  all  but  an  inch,  to  touch 
the  porcelain  bottom.  Set  as  much  ice  as  will  be  needed  for  a  time 
into  this  flannel  bag,  and  cover  it  by  throwing  back  the  long 
points  hanging  outside  the  dish.  Thus  suspended  and  covered,  the  ice 
melts  very  slowly,  even  in  a  warm  room.  When  a  feverish  patient 
demands  a  bit  every  few_moments,  a  neat  little  home-made  device  for 
cracking  silently  little  lumps  of  ice,  as  they  are  required,  is  made 
from  a  large  cork.  Into  one  end  insert  the~head  of  a  No.  8  needle. 
By  merely  pressing  the  cor^  down  with  a  thimbled  finger,  the  needle 
quickly  splits  the  ice  apart.  It  is  well  to  cut  a  tiny  opening  in  the 
bottom  of  the  flannel  bag,  that  it  may  drain  more  quickly.  Crushed 
ice  can  be  prepared  in  a  couple  of  minutes  by  chopping  off  a  piece 
from  the  large  cake  with  an  ice-pick ;  put  the  piece  that  is  to  be 
crushed  in  a  clean  coarse  ploth ;  gather  the  corners  of  the  cloth,  and 
bang  it  two  or  three  times  against  any  unbreakable  surface,  as  a  stone 
hearth,  iron  sink,  etc.  Rinse  the  ice  first,  and  use  a  clean  cloth,  and 
the  crushed  ice  will  be  perfectly  clean. 

.  Nourishing  Drinks. 

When  the  temperature  reaches  101  degrees  or  over,  the  sick  per- 
son should  be  fed  liquids  only,  because  the  power  of  the  stomach  to 
digest  food  is  impaired,  and  it  needs  assistance.  Besides  this,  when 
there  is  loss  of  appetite,  the  sufferer  will  relish  food  in  liquid  form 
after  he  turns  in  disgust  from  delicactM  in  solid.  There  are  a  great 
variety  of  nutritive  foods,  easily  ptepartd,  to  tempt  the  palate ;  amoag; 
vhich  are  arrowroot,  cornstarch,  clam  juice,  jellies,  such  as  ealf  *s 


556  Cqt)KING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

foot  jelly,  wine  or  lemon  jelly,  meat  jelly,  wine  whey.  Mutton  broth 
is  healing ;  and  then  there  is  barley  gruel,  rice  gruel,  flour  gruel,  oat- 
meal gruel,  Indian  meal  gruel,  and  sago  gruel. 

Apple  Water. — Pare  and  slice  a  fine,  juicy  apple.  Pour  1  large 
cupful  of  boiling  water  over  it.  Cover  and  let  stand  until  cold.  Or, 
roast  2  nice  tart  apples ;  do  not  burn.  Cut  them  up,  and  pour  over 
them  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  Let  cool.  Either  of  these  will  be  found 
a  refreshing  drink.  They  may  be  sweetened  slightly,  if  liked,  and^  a 
couple  of  cloves  ( may  be  added.  This  is  an  excellent  drink  for  a 
feverish  cold. 

Tamarind  Water.^Over  1  glass  tumbler  of  tamarinds,  pour  1 
pint  of  cold  water.     Let  stand  1  hour  before  using,  then  strain. 

Bice  Water. — Rice  water  is  a  pleasant  drink  for  children  and  in- 
valids. Boil  a  teacupful  of  rice  in  3  pints  of  water.  Allow  it  to  sim- 
mer gently  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  when  strain  it  and  sweeten 
a  little,  if  liked.  At  times  when  choleraic  disorders  are  prevalent,  a 
stick  of  cinnamon  boiled  in  it  makes  a  comforting  beverage.  Raisins 
boiled  in  it,  give  it  a  pleasant  flavor;  so  also  does  the  thin  yellow 
rind  of  a  lemon. 

Barley  Water.-^A  favorite,  as  well  as  nourishing  drink  for  in- 
valids, is  barley  water.  To  prepare  it,  place  a  quart  of  water  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire.  Wash  well  2  ounces  of  pearl  barley,-and 
throw  into  the  water.  Bring  it  to  boiling  point,  then  add  lemon  and., 
sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Draw  the  pan  to  the  back  of  the  fire,  and 
simmer  gently  2  hours.  Strain,  and  cover  until  cold.  It  should  be 
reduced  about  one-half  when  done. 

Crust  Coffee. — Brown  crusts  of  wheat  bread  or  Graham  biscuits 
in  the  oven  until  thoroughly  toasted  through,  but  not  burned.  Break 
in  pieces,  and  pour  boiling,  water  over  them.  Let  steep,  and  serve  as 
ordinary  coffee,  with  cream  and  sugar.  Very  wholesome  for  dys- 
peptics. 

Toast  Water. — Make  as  above  for  Crust  CoffeCj  but  not  so 
strong,  and  give  it  cold,  without  milk  or  sugar,  as  a  drink. 

Cornmeal  Coffee. — Put  1  pint  of  coarse  cornmeal  into  a  bowl,  and 
pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  stir  till  well  mixed ;  add  a 
cupful  of  cold  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
1  pint  of  coarse  wheat  or  oatmeal.  Stir  well  together ;  dust  a  drip- 
ping-pan with  comaKal,  and  pour  in  the  batter.     Bake  until  browned. 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  557 

in  a  hot  oven.  When  ready  to  make  the  coffee,  split  the  cake,  put  it 
in  the  oven  to  brown,  but  do  not  scorch ;  break  it  into  pieces,  and  put 
into  a  large  earthenware  pitcher.  Pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water  over 
it.  Simmer  for  an  hour  or  longer.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  It 
can  be  made  of  the  cornmeal  alone.  It  is  most  excellent  for  dyspep- 
tics, who  cannot  use  coffee  without  injury. 

litnaeed  Tea. — Place  in  a  jug  1  ounce  of  bruised  linseed,  2 
drachms  bruised  licorice-root,  half  ounce  white  sugar  and  2,  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  and  pour  over  them  one  pint  of  boiling 
water.  Cover  tightly,  and  digest  for  three  or  four  hours  near  a  fire. 
Strain  through  linen  before  using.  This  makes  a  mucilaginous  liquid, 
possessing  demulcent  properties,  and  of  special  value  in  bronchial 
affections.  ' 

Oatmeal  Sbrub., — Put  4  ounces  of  fine,  fresh  oatmeal  into  a  jar, 
add  6  ounces  of  white  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Moisten 
with  lukewarm  water  enough  to  mix ;  then  pour  over  1  gallon  of 
boiling  water,  stirring  thoroughly.  Let  settle;  use  cold.  This  is  a 
very  strengthening  and  refreshing  drink,  especially  for  invalids.  The 
flavoring  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  taste.  It  is  often  used  without 
either  sugar  or  flavoring. 

Barley  Water,  -with  White  of  'Egg^ — ^Take  a  tablespoonful  of 
coarse  barley,  and  wash  well  with  cold  water,  rejecting  the  washings. 
Then  boil  for  an  hour  or  more  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  clean  water, 
in  a  covered  vessel  or  saucepan.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  enough  sugar 
to  render  palatable,  and  strain.  To  4  or  6  ounces  of  barley  water 
thus  prepared  add  the  white  of  1  egg.  The  value  of  this  preparation 
in  gastro-intestinal  inflammation  and  irritation  is  not  easily  over- 
estimated. In  the  entero-colitis  of  very  young  infants  its  exclusive 
administration  for  thirty-six  or  forty-eight  hours  will  often  relieve 
when  all  other  measures  have  failed. 

Canned  Grape-juice. — Cook  the  grapes   1  hour,  or  until  soft. 
Strain  through  a  fine  strainer  and  cook  the  juice  once  more,  adding 
1  cupful  of  sugar  to  1  cupful  of  juice.    Boil  well  and  put  in  glass' 
jars. 

Tea  and  MiUc. — ^An  English  physician  has  a  formula  for  tea  and 
milk,  designed  for  persons  with  weak  digestion  who  like  the  slight 
stimulant  of  tea,  but  are  Unable  to  use  it  as  ordinarily  prepared.  The 
milk  is  put  info  a  saucepan  cold,  with  the  requisite  amount  df  tea  in 


658  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

an  infuser  or  loosely  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  The  milk  is  then  allowed 
to  come  slowly  to  the  boil,  and  the  moment  the  boiling  point  is 
reached  the  vessel  must  be  taken  from  the  fire  and  its  contents 
quickly  strained  into  a  carefully-heated  teapot.  This  concoction  is 
said  to  be  pleasant  to  drink  and  unwholesome  to  no  one. 

Hot  Milk. — Milk  heated  just  below  the  boiling  point  and  sipped 
slowly  as  hot  as  possible,  is  nourishing  and  stimulating  as  well,  and 
will  give  good  results,  if  substituted,  in  many  cases,  for  wines,  etc. 

Milk  and  lime  Water. — In  cases  where  much  nourishment 
must  be  administered  in  the  form  of  milk  and  lime  water,  it  is  well 
to  know  the  proportions  are  always  an  ounce  of  lime  water  to  an 
ounce  of  milk  mixed,  to  be  used  at  the  time  the  patient  requires  it. 

Milk  Punch. — Milk  Punch  is  useful  where  there  is  great  weak- 
ness and  little  nourishment  can  be  taken.  Heat  about  one-half  cup 
of  milk  and  water,  sweeten  to  taste  and  add  2  teaspoonfuls  good 
whiskey. 

Strengthening  Chocolate. — ^Take  1  pint  of  the  best  chocolate,^-! 
pound  of  rice  flour,  onerfourth  pound  arrowroot,  one-half  pound 
sifted  loaf  sugar.  Thoroughly  mix  and  rub  together.  A  dessert- 
spoonful of  this  compound  should  be  slightly  moistened  with  milk 
and  then  stirred  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk. 

Mulled  Wine. — Put  into  one-half  cup  cold  water  3  cloves,  one 
inch  cinnamon  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  Cover,  set  in  a  pan  of  water 
and  cook  10  minutes,  not  allowing  it  to  boil.  Add  one-half  cup 
claret  wine,  cook  10  minutes  longer,  strain  and  serve  at  once. 
■Sweeten  or  not  as  taste  dictates.  Yoii  may  vary  it  and  make  it  more 
nutritious  by  adding  an  egg,  the  white  and  yolk  beaten  separately, 
with  half  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  pour  into  the  wine  and  serve  at 
once.  This  is  a  drink  that  our  grandmothers  gave  for  a  cold,  and  it 
is  equally  efficacious  to-day.  For  preparing  it  never  use  a  tin  cup,  as 
the  acid  of  the  wine  would  render  the  beverage  unwholesome. 

Rennet  Whey. — One  pint  of  scalding  milk,  not  boiling ;  1  table- 
spoonful  prepared  rennet,  or  piece  of  rennet  skin  that  has  been 
soaked  in  water.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  strain.  It  will  be  ready  for 
use  when  cool. 

Wine  Whey. — One  quart  of  new  milk,  heat  to  boiling  point,  take 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  2  dessertspoonfuls  of  sherry 
wine,  and  put  into  the  milk,  let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes,  when  the 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  659 

curds  are  formed,  strain  off  It  is  a  cooling  and  slightly  laxative 
drink;  it  as  used  when  the  patient  can  keep  nothing  oh  the  stomach. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  white  sugar. 

Buttermilk  "Whey. — Boil  the  required  quantity  of  fresh  butter- 
milk. Season  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  loaf  sugar,  and  nutmeg  if 
liked.     Pour  the  whey  off  carefully. 

Mulled  Buttermilk,  or  Buttermilk  Pop. — Rub  a  scant  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  into  teacup  of  flour,  wet  it  up  to  a  thin  paste  with 
cold  buttermilk,  and  pour  it  into  2  quarts  of  boiling  fresh  buttermilk; 
salt  to  the  taste. 

Egg-TSog. — Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  a  tumbler  with  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  brandy,  and  the  same  of  sugar,  level.  Beat  the  white 
of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix;  thoroughly  with  the  yolk,  and  fill  the 
glass  with  milk.  Some  patients  cannot  take  egg  and  must  have 
brandy  and  milk  alone.  Others  take  brandy  and  egg  without  milk, 
while  the  larger  number  take  egg  and  milk  alone.  Some  physicians 
advise  using  the  yolk  of  the  egg  only. 

Eggr  Wine. — Beat  up  a  fresh  egg  until  smooth  and  thick ;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  loaf  sugar ;  stir  in  a  glass  of  best  port 
wine.  This,  when  permitted,  is  very  strengthening,  or  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  brandy  or  whiskey;  cracked  ice  in  the  glass  is  an  imprqvement. 

Bgrgr  mik. — ^Beat  a  fresh  egg  until  very  light.  Stir  into  a  glass 
of  new  milk.  -Sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with  either  nutmeg  or 
lemon.  Very  strengthening.  A  pleasant  change  in  the  preparation 
of  egg  milk  is  to  break  the  egg  into  a  pint  basin,  and  add  about  a 
tablespoonful  of  water ;  take  away  the  white  speck,  and  then  beat 
evenly  with  a  small  whisk  or  fork  until  it  becomes  light ;  then  add 
very  gradually  a  gill  of  milk,  heated  to  boiling  point,  beating  all  the 
time  and  continue  until  the  whole  is  a  fine  foam.  A  little  sugar  and 
sherry  or  brandy  may  be  added  if  liked.  This  way  will  be  found 
to  do  away  with  a  certain  rawness  of  taste  that  is  complained  of  so 
often.     Sometimes  it  is  a  change  to  place  this  drink  on  ice  until  cold. 

Brandy  Cocoa. — Scald  1  cup  of  milk ;  mix  1  teaspoon  of  sugar 
with  1  tablespoon  of  boiling  water  and  1  teaspoon  of  cocoa ;  add  it 
to  the  milk  ;  cook  over  hot  water  5  minutes;  add  one-half  tablespoon 
of  brandy  and  serve.  A  plain  cocoa  for  the  sick  is  to  be  made  with 
boiling  water,  not  milk.  When  serving  add  cream  and  sugar  to  the 
taste,  or  sugar  only. 


560  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Egff  Gofliaa. — The  invalid  who  is  tired  of  taking  egg  tonic  mixed 
with  sherry,  and  who  dislikes  the  taste  ol^a  raw  egg,  may  enjoy  the 
egg  disguised  in  a  cup  of  cofifee.  Prepare  the  coiifee  to  the  tast?  with 
cream  and  sugar,  keeping  it  very  hot  until  ready  for  the  egg,  which 
must  be  beaten  thoroughly  in  another  cup  and  the  prepared  coffee 
added  by  degi'ees.  Drink  it  hot,  and  it  will  be  found  not  only  pala- 
table, but  strengthening. 

Temperance  lEgg-TSog. — Take  a  tall  lemonade  glass  and  BU  it 
half-full  of  cracked  ice.  Break  into  it  2  fresh  eggs,  and  pour  in  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  with  just  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  to  the  taste.  Then 
shake  it  well  and  strain  into  another  ice-cold  glass.  Top  it  off  with 
a  dash  of  nutmeg.     Cooling  and  delicious. 

Mulled  Jelly. — One  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly  beaten  with 
the  white  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  loaf  sugar;  pour  oyer  this  one  pint 
of  boiling  water,  and  break  into  it  a  slice  of  dry  toast.  This  is  very 
palatable. 

Lemonade. — See  "  Table  Drinks  and  Beverages  "^  for  various 
ways  of  preparing  it.  For  an  invalid  it  should  be  made  of  the  juice 
only.  Squeeze  about  a  tablespoonful  of  juice  into  a  tumbler,  add 
sugar  to  taste  and  fill  tumbler  with  fresh  water. 

Hot  Ijemonade.— This  is  made  same  as  cold  lemonade,  save  that 
boiling  water  is  used.     This  is  very  useful  in  case  of  sudden  colds. 

Flaxseed  Lemonade. — Flaxseed  lemonade  for  coughs,  colds  and 
hoarseness  is  one  of  the  old-fashioned  woman's  recipes.  To  make  it, 
put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  .three  tablespobnfuls  of  whole 
.  flaxseed  into  a  pint  of  hot  water.  Steep  an  hour,  strain,  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon,  and  set  on  ice  until  cold.  If  preferred,  it  may  be 
drunk  hot. 

Milk  Lemonade. — Sugar,  Ij^  pounds,  dissolved  in  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  together  with  half  a  pint  of  lemon  juice  and^l>^ 
pints  of  milk.    This  makes  a  cooling,  agreeable,  nourishing  beverage. 

Broths. 

Beef  Juice. — Slice  juicy  lean  beef  from  the  round,  an  inch  thick, 
broil  it  quickly  over  a  very  hot  fire,  but  without  burning,  until  it  is 
brown  on  both  sides,  lay  it  in  a  hot  soup  plate,  cut  it  through  in  all 
parts  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  set  another  hot  plate  on  it,  with 
the  bottom  against  the  meat ;  then  grasp  both  pfates  firmly  and  press 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  661 

them  together,  squeezing  the  juice  from  the  meat ;,  let  it  run  into 
another  dish.  This  is  the  only  perfect  form  of  beef  tea.  Season  to  taste, 
or  take  in  its  natural  state.  A  quick  way  to  express  the  juice  is  to 
cut  the  hot  meat  in  small  pieces  and  squeeze  with  a  lemon  squeezer, 
or  small  juice  extractor.  The  juice  should  be  caught  in  a  hot  cup. 
It  can  be  given  to  the  youngest  infant,  as  well  as  to  adults.  It  is  the 
best  Jbod  preparation  to  administer  during  the  severity  of  an  attack 
of  any  hot-weather  disease.  Give  in  teaspoonful  to  tablespoonful 
quantities  at  short  intervals,  say  from  15  minutes  to  2  hours,  depend- 
ing upon  the  iirgency  of  the  case.  It  may  be  given  hot,  or,  if  there  - 
is  much  nausea,  it  may  be  poured-over  a  little  shaved  ice  and  then 
administered.  Extract  of  beef,  if  pure,  contains  nothing  but  the 
flavoring  matter  of  the  meat  from  which  it  is  prepared.  It  is,  there- 
fore, not  a  food  at  all,  but  a  stimulant,  and  should  be,  classed  with  tea 
and  coffee.  It^should  never  be  given  to  a  sick  person  unless  specially 
prescribed  by  a  competent  physician.  Its  strong  meaty  taste  is 
deceptive,  and  a  person  depending  upon  it  alpne  for  food  would  die 
of  starvation. 

Beef  Tea. — One  pound  of  lean  beef  (not  one  scrap  of  fat  must 
be  admitted)  cut  in  small  bits  and  put  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  with- 
out water ;  cork  closely,  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil 
and  keep  boiling  for  3  or  4  hours,  until  the  meat  in  the  bottle  is  like 
white  rags.  Press  out  the  juice  and  season  with  a  little  salt.  This 
troublesome  way  of  making  beef  tea  used  to  be  considered  the  only 
method,  but  either  of  the  above  given  are  preferable. 

Moulded  Beef  Tea. — Put  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  fine,  into  a  por- 
celain-lined stew-pan,  with  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  half  an 
hour,  and  then  put  it  on  the  stove,  where  it  will  heat  gradually. 
While  boiling  hot  skim  carefully,  and  put  it  where  it  will  simmer 
gently  for  half  an  hour.  When  this  is  cooking,  put  a  third  of  a  box 
of  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Salt  the  broth  to 
taste,  and  strain,  boiling  hot,  over  the  gelatine.  Stir  till  dissolved. 
Strain  into  cups  or  moulds.  Set  away  to  cool  on  ice.  This  will  be 
foimd  a  very  desirable  change  to  the  invalid.  The  other  beef  teas 
can  be  moulded  in  the  same  manner,  adding  gelatine  in,  quantities 
according  to  the  amount  of  tea. 

Frozen  Beef  Tea. — Put  cold  beef  tea  in  a  small  pail,  set  in  a 
wooden  bucket,  and  surround  ft  with  salt  and  crushed  ice.    Let  stand 

COOK— SS 


662 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 


10  minutes,  then  take  off  the  cover  aoid  scrape  the  congealed  beef  tea 
from  the  sides.  Beat  well  and  then  put  back  the  cover.  Do  this  two 
or  three  times,  and  the  tea  will  be  frozen  smooth.  This  is  excellent 
for  invalids  who  must  have  all  their  food  cold. 

Quick  Beef  Tea. — A  quick  method  of  preparing  a  nourishing 
beef  tea  is  as  follows :  Take  any  desired  quantity  of  steak  from  the 
top  part  of  the  round,  as  this  has  less  fat  and  more  juice  than  any 
other  part  of  the  ox ;  remove  every  morsel  of  fat,  and  divide  the 
meat  into  small  pieces,  cutting  across  the  grain ;  put  the  meat  in  a 
dry  saucepan  and  allow  it  to  sweat  for  5  minutes  over  a  slow  fire, 
stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  sticking.  This  is  how  all  beef 
essences  are  prepared.  After  sweating  for  5  minutes  you  will  find 
the  meat  white  in  color  and  surrounded  by  a  very  rich,  nourishing 

gravy,  which,  in  cases  of  great 
exhaustion,  may  be  given  in-this 
form.  When  using  beef  tea  for 
invalids,  a  teaspoonful  of  the  best 
whiskey  adds  greatly  to  its  flavor 
and  serves  as  a  stimulant  for  the 
patient.  This  is  especially  good 
for  grip  during  the  convalescent 
stage. 

To  warm  up  beef  tea,  put  in 
a  cup,  and  set  the  cup.  in  boiling 
water.     The  use  of  meat  juice 
Meat  Juice  Extractor.  for  medicinal  purposes  is  a  grow- 

ing one7  and  is  recommended  for  the  aged,  delicate  infants  and  inva- 
lids, in  all  cases  where  complete  nourishment  is  required  in  a  concen- 
trated form. 

Clam  Broth. — Simmer  chopped  clams  in  their  own  broth  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  water,  the  broth  strained  through  fine  muslin,  and 
seasoned  with  pepper.  Hot  milk  may  be  added,  and  the  whole  served 
with  toasted  crackers. 

dam  Frappi. — Wash  thoroughly  20  clams,  and  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  one-half  cup  cold  water ;  cover  closely  and  steam-until 
the  shells  open.  Strain  the  liquid,  cool,  and  freeze  it  to  a  mush. 
Serve  in  glasses.  A  small  amount  may  be  frozen  easily  in  a  baking- 
powder  can  by  setting  it  in  a  tin  pail  and  packing  with  ice  and  salt  in 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  563 

equal  proportions.  The  mixture  will  freeze  in  about  half  an  hour, 
and  should  be  stirred  once  or  twice  during  that  time.  This  clam- 
juice  is  also  very  often  diluted  and  served  hot,  and  in  some  cases  of 
gastric  inflammation  will  be  retained  by  the  stomach  when  almost 
everything  else  is  rejected. 

Veal  Broth. — Two  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal  cracked  into  pieces 
and  put  over  the  fire  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water.  Cover  and  cook 
slowly  until  it  is  reduced  to  1  quart.  Strain  and  season  with  salt. 
Meanwhile  soak  3  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  sago  in  a  cup  of  cold  water, 
lieat  by  setting  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour, 
and  stir  occasionally.  Put  the  strained  broth  in  a  double  boiler  and 
add  the  warmed  sago  to  it,  cook  half  an  hour,  and  then  stir  into  it  1 
cup  of  cream  heated  to  the  boiling  point,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  2  fresh  eggs.  Let  all  only  come  to  a  boil  and  remove  from  the 
fire  at  once.     Serve  as  soon  as  possible.         ^ 

Nutritioas  Beef  Broth. — ^AUow  a  pint  of  cold  water  to  a  pound 
of  lean  beef  (round  steak  preferable)  cut  in  dice.  Stir  until  the  water 
boils ;  it  must  not  boil  Hgain,  but  simmer  gentlyfor  5  or  10  minutes, 
until  all  the  juice  is  drawn  out ;  then  strain  carefully  into  a  bowl,  and 
if  thej;e  is  a  particle  of  fat  on  top  remove  it  with  a  piece  of  brown  ~ 
unsized  paper.  By  this  method  you  may  take  off  every  star  of  fat 
without  wasting  a  drop  of  the  beef  tea,  as  is  done  when  using  a  ladle 
or  spoon.     In  this  way  you  may  have  strong  beef  tea  in  20  minutes.' 

Mutton  Broth. — This  is  ofben  ordered  for  invalids.  It  should  b* 
made  as  plainly  as  possible,  and  so  as  to  secure  the  juice  of  the  meat. 
Boil  slowly  about  2  pounds  of  lean  mutton  for  two  hours  ;  skim  it 
very  carefully,  as  it  simmers,  and  do  not  put  in  much  salt.  Some 
veget£lbles  may  be  added  as  a  seasoning,  and  for  some  broths  a  littl? 
barley  or  rice. 

Cream  Soup. — Sago,  pearl  tapioca,  barley  or  rice  may  be  used. 
Take  any  white  stock  that  is  rich  and  well  seasoned.  Pyt  into  a 
saucepan  a  half-pint  of  the  stock  and  the  same  quantity  of  cream. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  thoroughly 
moistened  with  cold  milk,  and  let  it  boil  up  once.  Have  the  tapioca 
or  whatever  you  wish  to  use  in  the  soup  cooked,  and  add  it  to  the 
soup  and  serve.  Barley  requires  2  hours  to  cook,  rice  1  hour ;  s^o 
and  pearl  tapioca  must  be  soaked  in  cold  water  half  an  hour  and 
cooked  the  same  length  of  time. 


664  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Chicken  Broth. — Boil  a  common-sized  chicken  in  2  quarts  of 
water  (the  water  must  be  cold' at  first);  cover  and  cook  until  the 
meat  is  ready  to  fall  to  pieces.  Strain,  let  simmer,  adding  4  or  5  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk  aad  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  A  tablespoonful  of 
well-soaked  rice  or  pearl  barley  may  be  added  also ;  boil  slowly  one- 
half  hour  if  this  is  done.  Serve  with  dry  toast.  The  meat  of  the 
chicken  will  make  a  very  nice  chicken  salad  for  tlie  family.  Or,  if 
the  patient  is  sufficiently  convalescent,  make  it  into  a  Paulet  a  la 
creme  for  his  use. 

Paulet  a  la  Creme. — Chop  the  cooked  chicken  to  a  powder,  rub 
through  a  wire  sieve,  mix  with  a  little  cream  and  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  season  with  salt.  Put  in  a  mould,  press,  strain,  and  serve  it  hot 
or  cold,  cut  in  slices.    . 

Gruels. 

Gruels  are  generally  ordered  when  there  is  fever.  And  gruel 
properly  made  is  nourishing  and  palatable,  but  if  scorched  or  half 
raw  and  full  of  lumps  it  is  most  repulsive.  Gruels  are  soothing  reme- 
dies for  bad  colds. 

Indian-meal  Gruel. — ^Take  corn  meal  and  sift  it  into  a  quart  of 
slightly-salted  boiling  water,  stirring  until  it  is  the  consistency  of 
cream.  Let  simmer  one-half  hour  or  longer.  Put  in  a  bit  of  butter 
if  allowable ;  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  if  desired.  A  couple  dozen 
raisins  boiled  in  the  gruel  will  improve  the  flavor.  They  need  not  be 
eaten.  Another  way  is  to  serve  the^ruel  in  the  proportions  of  one- 
half  cup  of  the  gruel  and  one-half  cup  of  rich  milk,  heated  together. 

Caudle.-^Make  a  water  gruel  as  above,  or  a  Rice  Caudle.  Strain 
it  and  add  a  wineglassful  of  wine  or  brandy.  Sweeten  with  loaf-sugar 
and  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg. 

Bice  CauOle. — Soak  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  in  cold  water  for  an 
hour.  Drain  and  simmer  in  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  (the  milk  miist  be 
cold  to  start  with)  until  it  is  a  pulp  that  can  be  rubbed  through  a . 
sieve.  Then  put  pulp  and  milk  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  bruised  clove,  a 
bit  of  stick  cinnamon,  and  loaf-sugar  to  taste.  Simmer  ten  minutes 
longer.  If  too  thin,  add  a  little  more  milk.  Serve  wiUi  very  thin , 
slices  of  dry  toast. 

Bic©  Gruel.— Add  1  tablespoonful  of  rice  to  3  cups  of  boiling 
water.  When  it  has  cooked  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  a  cup  of 
milk  is  added,  with  a  teaspoonfiil  of  salt,  and  the  mixture  is  boiled 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  565 

for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Strain  the  gruel  through  a  puree  sieve, 
pressing  through  all  the  rice  that  will  go.  Let  the  gruel  boil  up  for 
5  minutes  after  it  is  strained.  Add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 
Serve  it  with  little  slices  of  brown  toast.  Though  this  is  a  very  pal- 
atable gruel,  it  is  not  so  full  of  nourishment  cis  a  barley  gruel,  but  it 
is  valuable  to  persons  suffering  from  intestinal  diseases^  who  cannot 
take  heavier  food. 

Boiled  Flour  Gruel. — Tie  a  teacupful  of  flour  closely  in  a  cotton 
cloth.  Boil  6  hours.  When  cool  untie,  and  let  it  dry  in  a  moderate 
oven.  If  the  oAter  part  remains  soft  remove  carefully.  When 
wanted  for  use,  grate  2  tablespoonfuls  of  it,  and  rub  smooth  with  a 
little  cold  milk.  Stir  it  into  1  pint  of  boiling  milk,  cook  5  minutes, 
season  with  salt  and  sugar  to  taste.  Very  good  for  children  and 
infants  in  summer  diseases ;  also  for  older  invalids. 

Oatmeal  Gruel  (Milk). — ^Pour  1  pint  of  boiling  water  on  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oatmeal,  add  one-half  pint  milk  and  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
simmer  in  a  double  boiler  for  one-half  hour,  add  some  raisins  and 
grated  nutmeg  if  permissible,  strain,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  if  liked. 

Oatmeal  Gruel  (Water). — One  cupful  oatmeal,  1  quart  of  water, 
boil  gently  until  it  thickens,  rub  through  a  sieve  with  a  spoon,  and 
serve  hot ;  sweeten  if  liked,  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  If  too  thick,  thin 
with  milk,  water  or  broth. 

auik  Gruel. — One  tablespoonful  of  Indian  meal,  Itablespoonful 
of  wheat  flour.  Rub  them  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk  or  water. 
Pour  into  1  quart  of  boiling  milk,  boil  10  minutes,  season  with  butter 
and  salt.     Good  for  a  cold. 

Chicken  Oatmeal  Gruel  (a  Convalescent's  Food).  —  Boil  a 
chicken  till  tender,  remove  the  chicken,  lay  it  one  side  for  the  well 
folks  to  eat,  strain  the  stock.  There  should  be  about  a  pint.  Add 
one-quarter  cup  of  fine  oatmeal  and  cook  1  hour.  Strain  again,  add 
1  pint  of  milk,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with  inch  cubes 
of  bread  browned  in  the  oven. 

Arrowroot  Gruel. — Make  same  as  Rice  Gruel,  taking  1  ounce  to 
1  pint  of  milk,  together  with  1  teaspoonful  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Cracker  Gruel. — Roll  until-  fine  6  soda  crackers.  Put  1  pint  of 
cold  water  into  a  saucepan,  when  boiling  add  the  rolled  cracker.  Do 
not  stir,  but  boil  1  minute.  Add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  then  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream.    Serve  warm. 


666  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Milk  Porridge. — Mix  2  tablespooiifuls  of  flour  with  a  half  cupful 
of  cold  milk,  place  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  milk  over  the  fire  in  a 
saucepan;  stir  in  the  flour  and  the  milk,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and,  if 
desired,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  suit  the  palate  of  the  patient;  stir  liie 
porridge  conistantly  until  it  begins  to  boil,  then  let  it  boil  for  1  min- 
ute, and  serve  it.  Some  palates  will  not  endure  the  sweetening  and 
flavoring,  but  a  simple  bit  of  butter,  and  some  like  a  dozen  of  raisins 
boiled  in  the  milk ;  not  to  eat,  but  for  the  flavor.  Cornstarch  is  nice 
to  use  in  place  of  flour.  Another  variation  is  to  make  as  above, 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  stifily-beaten  white  of  an  egg. 

Baked  Milk. — Put  milk  in  an  earthen  jar,  cover  the  opening 
with  thick  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  milk  is  as 
thick  as  cream.  This  is  often  palatable  to  invalids  who  do  not  care 
for  raw  milk. 

Baisin  Brotli. — Boil  1  pound  of  raisins  slowly  in  plenty  of  water 
for  an  hour.  Make  a  thickening  of  cornstarch,  moistened  with  cold 
water  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Grate  in  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg, 
and  season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy' or  two  of  wine.  Sweeten 
to  the  taste.  Serve  with  a  toasted  cracker.  This  broth  is  both  pala- 
table and  nourishing. 

Bread  Panada. — Six  Boston  crackers,  scatter  a  little  granulated 
sugar  and  a  grain  of  salt  over  each  cracker.  Put  them  in  a  bowl  and 
just  cover  with  boiling  water.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  them,  and 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  wine.  Coyer  the  dish  and  let  it  stand  in  a 
warm  place  until  the  crackers  are  soaked,  but  not  broken.  Serve  in 
the  bowl.  Cut,  or  crumbed,  stale  bread  may  be  used  instead  of 
crackers,  or  the  bread  may  be  toasted.        ^ 

Crocker  Soup. — Put  a  bit  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  ia 
a  bowl,  sprinkle  in  pepper  and  salt  ehough  to  make  it  palatable ; 
break  in  crackers  as  for  oyster  soup,  and  turn  on  boiling  water  until 
the  dish  is  filled.  This  is  a  substitute  for  oyster  soup,  and  is  a  very 
nice  dish.  Use  as  much  pepper  as  possible,  if  the  disease  is  a  sore 
throat.    A  person  in  perfect  health  will  relish  this  dish. 

Solid  PoodB. 

CalTM'-Foot  Jelly. — Wash  and  clean  the  feet  of  a  larg'e  calf. 
Put  them  to  boil  in.  8  quarts  of  water.  When  the  water  is  half  boiled 
away,  strain  through  a  sieve  and  set  it  to  cool.    When  perfectly  co]d. 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  567 

remove  every  particle  of  fat  from  the  top ;  take  up  the  jelly,  removing 
any  sediment  that  may  be  at  the  bottom.  Set  it  over  the  fire  again, 
letting  it  dissolve  slowly  without  stirring ;  before  it  is  hot  add  the 
whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff,  the  juice  of  6  lemons,  and  8  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Let  it  boil,  skimming  thoroughly  until  it 
is  perfectly  clear.  Try  a  teaspoonful  on  a  plate  to  cool.  If  not  suf- 
ficiently firm,  boil  longer  or  add  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  or  isinglass 
dissolved  in  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Put  some  of  the  yellow  skins 
of  the  lemons  in  a  jelly-bag  and  strain  through.  This  gives  the  jelly 
a  fine  amber  color.  A  sti&k  of  cinnamon  may  be  put  in  at  the  same 
time  with  the  lemon  juice;  remove  before  straining.  Fasten  the 
jelly-bag  (it  should  be  flannel ;  wring/ it  out  of  hot  water  before  using, 
to  enable  the  liquid  to  run  more  freely)  near  the  fire  and  do  not  stir 
nor  press.  Calves'-foot  jelly  can  be  made  by  simply  sweetening, 
leaving  out  the  lemon-juice  and  cinnamon.  When  for  invalids,  the 
physician  frequently  orders  a  wineglass  of  pale  brandy  or  a  pint  of 
Madeira,  white  sugar  in  equal  weight  with  the  juice;  boil  until  it  will 
jelly.    When  cold,  pour  in  glasses  and  seal. 

Mutton  Jelly. — Six  shanks  of  mutton,  3  pints  of  water,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  one-half  pound  lean  beef,  a  crust  of  bread  toasted 
brown.  Wash  the  shanks  well,  after  soaking  in  water  several  hours, 
and  place  all  ingredients  in  a  saucepan  with  the  water  and  simmer 
gently  for  five  hours.  Season  with  salt.  Strain,  and  when  cold  skim 
off  the  fat.    Warm  as  much  as  is  wanted  at  a  time ;  or,  serve  cold. 

Meat  Jelly. — Clear  1  quart  of  strong  beef  broth' with  white  of 
egg.  See  "  Clarifying  Soups."  Season  with  salt  and  pepjSer  to  taste, 
adding  lemon-juice,  cinnamon  or  other  spicesj  if  desired ;  set  away  to 
harden  in  little  cups.  When  ready  to  use,  turn  out  on  a  pretty 
saucer,  and  serve  with  a  saltine  or  a  bit  of  toast. 

Chicken  Jelly. — Chicken  jelly  may  be  used  in  a  variety  of  ways. 
To  make  the  jelly  take  a  fowl  weighing  about  3  pounds^  Clean  and 
remove  the  skin  and  fat.  Cut  it  into  pieces,  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan,  with  2  generous  quarts  of  water,  a  bay  leaf,  and  some  pieces 
of  celery.  Cover  and  heat  slowly  up  to  the  boiling-point.  Let  it 
simmer  for  4  hours,  then  season  with  salt  and  strain  into  glasses,  and 
set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  remove  the  fat.  This  jelly  may  be 
used  cold  or  heated,  and  served  like  soup.  Heat  a  glass  of  the  jelly 
and  add  a  gill  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  1  teaspoonful  of  dissolved 


B68'  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

gelatine,  some  sugar  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pour  the  liquid 
jelly  into  small  cups,  and  set  away  to  harden.  This  makes  a  very 
nourishing  wine  jelly.  Pieces  of  the  white  meat  of  the  fowl  may  be 
cut  fine  and  put  into  a  jelly  glass,  and  the  liquid  jelly  poured  over 
them.  When  cold,  it  is  appetizing  sliced  and  put  between  thin  pieces 
of  bread,  buttered^  and  with  the  crust  taken  off,  or  with  slices  of  jellied 
chicken  with  toasted  crackers. 

Chicken  Jelly. — II.  Boil  2  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-chopped  cold 
chicken  in  sufficient  water  to  make  a  cupful  of  the  whole ;  %icken 
lightly  with  cornstarch  in  melted  butter,  pour  over  a  slice  of  nicely 
toasted  bread  and  serve  hot. 

Scraped  Raw  Beef. — Take  a  tender  piece  of  beef;  cut  across  the 
grain ;  scrape  with  a  spoon  until  all  the  pulp  is  removed ;  make  a 
fresh  surface  by  cutting  off  the  scraped  part  with  a  thin,  sharp  knife ; 
proceed  in  this  way  until  all  the  meat  is  reduced  to  a  pulp.  If  neces- 
sary, it  may  be  eaten  raw,  spread  very  thin  on  slices  of  toast,  or  the 
pulp  may  be  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan  with  a  little  buttef,  and  allowed 
to  barely  cook  through,  stirring  and  turning  constantly.  A  weak 
stomach  will  often  retain  scraped  beef  when  it  refuses  all  other  solid 
foods. 

Kaw  Beef  Sandwiches. — Between  two  thin  slices  of  toast  place 
a  small  piece  of  juicy,  fresh,  tender  raw  beef,  scraped  fine  and  seasoned 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Hot  Beef  Toast. — A  slice  of  bread  toasted  to  a  delicate  brown 
and  moistened  with  the  juice  from  a  hot,  rare  beefsteak  is  a  little  va- 
riation from  the  regulation -toast  that  is  appreciated  by  the  invalid. 

Broiled  Squahs,  Quail,  or  Chicken. — Squabs  or  quails  should 
be  split  down  the  baqk,  wiped  dry  and  broiled  on  both  sides.  Season 
lightly  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  The  breast  only  of  a  spring 
chicken  should  be  broiled.    Season  as  above. 

Broiled  Sweetbreads. — Sweetbreads  must  be  parboiled,  then 
blanched  in  cold  water  and  lemon  juice.  Broil  until  well  browned. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads. — No  matter  how  you  serve  sweetbreads 
they  must  first  be  parboiled  in  clear  water  for  20  minutes.  Then 
throw  them  into  cold  water  and  pick  them  into  small  pieces,  rejecting 
the  membrane.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  when  boiling  add  the  sweetbreads 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  569 

and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  they 
are  ready  to  serve.  Sweetbreads  are  the  pancreas  of  an  animal  and 
valuable  for  convalescents  because  they  are  a  form  of  partially  predi- 
gested  food,  and  require  but  1  hour  in  the  stomach  to  complete  the 
digestive  process. 

GriUed  Oysters. -r-Put  about  6  unopened  oysters  on  a  gridiron ; 
as  soon  as  they  are  partly  open  put  into  each  a  bit  of  fresh  butter 
sprinkled  with  pepper ;  when  they  are  quite  open,  which  will  tak6 
about  7  minutes,  serve  with  them  bread  and  butter  and  some  slices 
of  lemon. 

Oyster  Soups. — See  Shell  Fish. 

Invalid's  Mutton  (jhop. — Cut  the  chop  rather  thin  and  cook  it 
thoroughly  over  a  clear  coal  fire.     Remove  the  skin  from  it. 

Chopped  Beefsteak  for  the  Invalid. — ^A  nutritious,  stimulating 
food,  more  digestible  than  unchopped  steak,  and  valuable  in  all  sick- 
ness caused  by  mal-nutrition.  Trim  the  fat  froni  a  pound  of  round 
or  sirloin  steak,  cut  the  meat  in  inch  pieces,  put  it  into  a  meat-chopper 
or  mincing  machine  and  chop  it  for  5  minutes ;  then  take  from  the 
top  of  the  meat  the  fine  pulp  which  rises  during  the  operation  of  the 
chopping ;  continue  to  chop  and  remove  the  pulp  until  only  the  fibre 
of  the  meat  remains.  Press  the  pulp  into  a  round,  flat  cake,  and  broil 
it  over  a  very  hot  fire  for  about  5  minutes  on  each  side;  season  lightly 
with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 

Bacon  for  Invalids.— Slice  the  bacon  very  thin;  almost  thin 
enough  to  look  through ;  broil  on  a  gentle  fire,  turning  very  often ; 
broil  until  the  corners  commence  to  curl ;  then  serve  on  dipped  toast. 

Creamed  Codfish.-pShred  some^  codfish  fine,  put  in  cold  water, 
let  come  slowly  to  a  boil  to  freshen  it.  Boil  a  moment,  turn  off  the 
water  and  add  hot  cream,  seasoned  lightly  with  pepper  if  allowable, 
or  rich  milk  in  which  a  small  lump  of  butter  has  been  dissolved. 
Split  and  toast  a  Boston  cracker,  or  a  half  slice  of  baker's  bread  from 
which  the  crust  has  been  removed,  and  turn  the  codfish  over  this. 

Egg  on  Toast. — A  delicate  way  of  preparing  eggs  is  to  poach  2 
very  lightly,  put  them  on  slices  of  crisp  toast  and  pour  over  them  a 
coffee  cupful  of  hot  cream.  Or,  dip  a  crisp  slice  of  toast,  either  of 
white  or  Graham  bread.-into  boiling  salted  water.  >  Take  out  and  but- 
ter lightly,  and  put  the  poached  eggs  upon  them.  Less  rich  than 
Iffith  milk.  See  "  Eggs  "  for  other  delicate  methods  of  preparing  eggs. 


670  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Whipped  Egg  on  Toast. — Place  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water 
in  a  small  saucepan  on  the  stove.  Break  the  egg  in  and  stir  briskly 
until  the  egg  is  set,  but  not  at  all  hard.  Serve  on  toast.  This  is  no 
richer  than  the  dropped  egg. 

Egg  in  Milk. — Toast  2  thin  slices  of  baker's  bread,  then  butter, 
break  1  egg  into  a  cup  of  milk  and  let  the  milk  come  to  a  scald,  or 
till  the  white  of  the  egg  turns  a  milk  white,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  take 
the  egg  up  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  yolk,  and  Isgr  it  on  the 
toast,  then  poiir  the  rest  over  it;  it  is  a  good  dish  for  convalescents. 

How  to  Eat  a  Baw  Egg. — Put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  into  a  dish 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  or 
lemon  juice  and  beat  lightly  together  with  a  fork.  Put  the  whites  on 
a  plate  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Then  with  a  broad-bladed  knife  beat 
tt  to  a  stiff  froth.  Ncjw  as  lightly  as  possible  mix  all  together  in  the 
dish.  I  Transfer  it  to  a  clean  tumbler,  which  it  will  aearly  fill  if  prop' 
erly  made.  Any  fruit  juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  orange  or  lemon, 
or  even  brandy  if  the  doctor  has  ordered  it. 

Cream  Toast  for  Invalids. — Heat  some  very  thin  cream  to  nearly 
the  boiling  point  and  salt  well.  Toast  a  slice  of  white  or  Graham 
bread  a  nice  brown.  Pour  the  cream  over  it  and  serve  at  once.  Milk 
may  be  used  instead  of  cream.     No  butter  at  first. 

Baked  Potato. — Potatoes  must  be  served  baked,  and  as  soon  as 
they  are  done  cut  in  half  lengthwise.  Scoop  out  the  mealy  centre 
into  a  hot  bowl.  Mash  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  little 
salt.  Beat  the  white  of  1  e^  stiff,  and  mix  it  with  the  potato.  The 
egg  may  be  omitted. 

Onion  Gruel. — This  is  excellent  for  a  cpld.  Slice  down  a  few 
onions  and  boil  them  in  a  pint  of. new  milk,  stir  .them  in  a  sprinkle  of 
oatmeal  and  a  very  little  salt ;  boil  till  the  onions  are  quite  tender, 
then  sup  rapidly  and  go  to  bed.  Onions  slowly  stewed  in  weak  broth 
and  eaten  with  a  little  pepper  will  be  found  to  be  an  admirable  article 
of  diet  for  patients  ,of  studious  and  sedentary  habits.  ,^, 

Gluten  Wafers. — ^To-1  gill  of  cream  add  seven-eighths  cup  of 
gluten  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt.    Roll  out  about  as  thick  as  a  silver 
/dollar  and  bake. 

Sweet  Dishes. 

Bice  and  Egg.— Wash  thoroughly  half  a  cup  of  rice  and  putit 
into  a  double  boiler  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it.    When  the 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  671 

rice  is  nearly  done,  if  any  water  remains  pour  it  off  and  add  1  cup  of 
milk  and  a  little  salt.  Let  the  rice  cook  slowly  until  done.  Beat  an 
egg  tiioroughly,  and  the  last  thing  before  taking  the  rice  from  the 
fire  stir  the  egg  into  it  as  lightly  as  possible,  and  serve  hot  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

Sago  Jelly. — ^Wash  1  large  tablespoonful  of  sago,  soak  one  hour, 
boil  it  in  half  cupful  of  water ;  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  until  the  grains  grow  clear  ;  rind  of  lemon  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  cinnamon.  Then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  milk,  or  milk 
and  water,  boil  all  together,  sweeten  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Orange  Jelly. — Take  half  pint  of  orange  juice,  beat  the  white  of 
an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  the  juice,  with  1  teacupful  of  sugar, 
to  a  scant  pint  of  hot  water.  Have  previously  soaked  half  package 
of  gelatine  in  1  teacupful  of  cold  water,  add  this  to  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Set  the  dish  containing  the  mixture  over  the  fire  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water,  and  stir  until  it  is  thofoughly  heated.  Strain  and  fill 
in  moulds,  or  keep  the  halves  of  the  orange  peel  intact  and  fill  the 
jelly  in  these.     Set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 

Tapioca  Jelly. — Soak  the  tapioca  6  hours,  or  over  night,  Sim- 
mer in  a  stew-pan  until  it  becomes  quite  clear,  then  add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  or  a  glass  of  wine,  with  sugar  to  taste.  Set  in  a  cool  place 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Dyspeptic  Custard. — This  can  be  digested  by  weakened  and 
dyspeptic  stomachs :  To  half  a  pint  of  fresh  milk  heated  lukewarm 
add  1  teaspoon-of  essence  of  pepsin ;  stir  just  enough  to  mix ;  let  it 
stand  till  cold,  serve  plain  or  with  cream  and  sugar  and  nutmeg ; 
wines  or  cordials  can  be  added  as  you  like. 

Bice  Custard. — Boil  in  a  double  boiler  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice 
in  2  cups  of  milk  for  nearly  3  hours,  when  the  rice  should  be  per- 
fectly soft.  Pass  this  through  a  colander  into  a  saucepan,  and  put 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  keep  hot  while  2  eggs  are  being  thor- 
oughly beaten  into  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  When  this  is  light  and  the  rice  boils  up,  stir  the  eggs  in  slowly 
with  a  spoon  for  a  minute  or  two  till  the  whole  is  like  a  thick,,  soft 

custard. 

•Ice  Cream  for  an  Invalid. — Sometimes  the  patient  has  a  fancy 
for  something  cold,  and  in  the  later  stages  of  convalescence  an  ice  is 
not  at  all  harmful.    Slightly  scald  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  mix  with  it 


572  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
flavoring  and  one  of  good  brandy.  Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
stir  in  lightly  and  freeze.  Freeze  in  a  little  Jin  pail  with  a  tightly- 
fitting  cover.  Set  in  a  wooden  pail  and  pack  around  with  alternate 
layers  of  ice  and  salt,  lay  wet  cloths  over  the  top  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  In  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  open  the  can,  cut  away  the 
frozen  portion  from  the  sides.  In  half  an  hour  more  it  should  be 
solid. 

Sterilized  Milk  for  ChUdren.-;— Put  the  milk  in  clean  bottles  the 
size  to  have  the  contents  used  once.  Then  put  the  bottles  into  a 
large  kettle  or  other  metal  receptacle.  Pour  cold  water  into  the 
kettle  until  the  water  reaches  the  level  of  the  milk  in  the  bottles. 
Now  close  the  mouth  of  «each  bottle  with  a  plug  of  clean  white 
cotton  fibre.  Heat  the  kettle  and  contents  to  155  degrees  Fahrenheit. 
Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  cover  the  whole  affair  snugly  with  a 
woolen  cloth  to  keep  from  cooling  at  once.  Leave  half  an  hour, 
then  take  out  the  bottks  and  keep  them  in  running  water  or  in  any 
cool  place,  leaving  them~still  stoppered  with  the  plug  of  cotton.  The 
flexible  wooden  stoppers  ifsed  with  some  kinds  of  patent  glass  jars 
would  answer  in  place  of  cotten,  the  object  being  to  exclude  air,  dust 
and  germs.  Be  careful  not  to  heat  above  155  degrees,  or  the  milk 
will  not  taste  quite  right.  In  practice  it  will  be  found  a  good  idea  to 
make  easier  the  circulation  of  the  hot  water  by  placing  a  wire  frame 
an  inch  or  two  in  height  in  the  kettle  beneath  the  bottles.  Milk 
carefully  treated  by  the  above  process  may  be  warranted  free  from 
disease  germs,  and  it  will  keep  sweet  about  24  hours. 

Menu  for  Baby. — The  average  healthy  child  of  14  months  and 
upward,  is  better  for  a  carefully  ojiosen  variety  in  its  diet.  The  fol- 
lowing bills  of  fare  will  answer  for  any  healthy  child  of  from  14 
months  up  to  2^  years  of  age : 

I  1.  Milk  to  drink.  Half  a  saucer  of  oatmeal  with  a  little  butter 
and  salt.  Half  a  saucer  of  oatmeal  with  cream  and  sugar.  A  few 
teaspoonfuls  of  strained  prune  juice.  2.  Thoroughly  mashed  potato, 
with  a  little  butter,  cream  and  salt.  A  thick  strip  of  rare  beefsteak 
to  suck  (should  be  allowed  only  the  juice).  A  few  teaspoonfuls  of 
finely  scraped  apple.  Milk  to  drink.  3.  Half  a  soft  boiled  «gg. 
Milk  toast.  Baby  tea — made  of  milk  and  warm  water  in  equal  pro- 
portions, with  sugar  and  a  drop  of  vanilla.    4.  Bread  and  milk.    A  few 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  67* 

teaspoonfuls  fine  grained  apple  sauce.  Half  slice  of  bread  with  beef- 
steak gravy.  6.  Half  saucer  of^rice  with  butter  and  salt.  Half 
saucer  rice  with  cream  and  sugar.  Two  or  3  teaspoonfuls  of  orange 
juice.  Milk  to  drink.  6.  Half  teacup  of  beef  tea.  Crack;ers  and 
milk.  Third  of  a  slice  bread  with  pure  maple  syrup.  7.  A  littld 
strained  fig  syrup  (if  constipated)  made  by  boiling  figs  in- water  with 
sugar.  Mush  and  milk.  Small  slice  bread  and  butter  without  crust. 
8.  A  teaspoonful  of  the  breast  of  chicken  or  turkey  minced  very 
fine.  Toast  and  milk.  Small  lump  of  sugar  for  dessert.  9.  Oat- 
meal, crackers  and  milk.  Baked  potato,  cream  and  salt.  Whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored.  10.  Half  s)ice  buttered  toast,  with- 
out crust.  Bread  and  milk.  Taste  of  custard,  wine,  jelly  or  melted 
vanilla  or  chocolate  ice  cream. 

The  Medicine  Closet. — Every  well  regulated  household  has  a 
medicine  closet.  This  does  not  mean  that  a  whole  cupboard  out  of 
the  scant  supply  of  the  average  flat  must  be  given  over  to  medicine 
bottles  and  plasters. 

There  are  on  sale  at  all  furnishing  stores  and  at  most  of  the  dry- 
goods  shops  medicine  cabinets,  varying  in  size  and  in  make,  but  all 
of  them  falling  within  the  average  housekeeper's  means.  One  of 
these  should  be  fastened  out  of  reach  of  the  children  in  mother's  room. 

The  properly  equipped  medicine  cabinet  is  at  least  half  closed  and 
locked.  In  this  compartment  the  poisons  which  are  household 
remedies  should  be  kept.  Amitaonia  and  alcohol  belong  to  this  class 
as  well  as  laudanum  and  arnica.  Salves,  lotions  and  the  like  may  be 
kept  on  the  unguarded  shelf  compartment. 

Antidotes  for ,  poisons,  liniments  for  stings,  cuts  and '  bruises, 
plasters  and  plenty  of  material  for  bandages  should  be  kept  in  the 
closet.  Witch  hazel,  for  sores  and  burns,  should  not  be  forgotten, 
nor  the  helpful,  simple  soda,  nor  potash  for, gargling.  It  is  an  excel- 
lent idea  to  have  tacked  to  the  door  of  the  cabinet  a  typewritten  list 
of  things  to  do  and  remedies  to  give  in  emergencies.  In  "it  also 
should  be  found  the  temporary  relief  for  a  severe  headache,  the 
mustard  for  footbath,  or  the  invaluable  plaster,  for  which,  however, 
might  be  substituted  the  more  convenient  mustard  leaves;  vaseline 
or  pure  sweet  oil,  which  would  be  fou;id  to  be  invaluable  for  bums ; 
oil  of  cloves,  seidlitz  powders  and  citrate  of  magnesia. 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES. 


Acetate  of  Lead  (or  sugar  of 
lead). — Give  Epsom/^ltsordilute  sul- 
phuric acid,  provo!^  vomiting,  give 
bland  liquids,  give  dose  of  castor  oil. 
'  Acids  (sulphuric,  nitric,  muriatic 
and  oxalic). — Give  an  alkali,  strong, 
clean  soapsuds,  a  piece  of  soap  will  do, 
provoke  vomiting,  give  bland  liquids, 
rest  patient,  relifeve  pain  by  opium; 
if  faint,  stimulate,  feed  by  enema. 

Aconite.  —  Provoke  vomiting, 
stimulate  well,  keep  up  the  breathing, 
give  digitalis  and  atropine. 

Alcohol.— Provoke  vomiting,  give 
hartshorn  and  water. 

Alkalies  (harsthorh,  soda,  potash 
and  lye).— 'Give  vinegar  or  other 
acid,  provoke  vomiting,  give  bland 
liquids,  secure  rest,  relieve  pain  by 
opium,  and  stimulate  if  necessary. 

Arsenic  (paris  green.  Fowler's 
solution,  etc.). — Provoke  vomiting, 
give  dose  castor  oil,  secure  rest  and 
,  stimulate  if  necessary. 

Bland  Liquids— Are  milk,  gruel, 
raw  eggs,  oil  of  some  kind,  barley 
water,  mucilage,  etc. 

Carbolic  Acid  (Epsom  salts,  oil 
and  glycerine). — Produce  vomiting 
and  stimulate. 

Decayed  Meat  or  Vegetables. 
—Provoke  vomiting,  wash  out  the 
stomach,  give  a  purgative,  give  an 
enema,  give  powdered  charcoal  and 
peroxide  of  hydrogen. 

Iodine. — Provoke  /omiting,  give 
starch  and  water,  give  bland  fluids. 

Mercury  (corrosive  sublimate, 
antitiiony  or  tartar  emetic). — ^Pro- 
voke vomiting,  give  some  infusion 
cpntaining  tannic  acid,  give  raw  eggs 
and  milk,  give  dose  of  castor  oil  and 
stimulate  if  necessary. 

Nitrate  of  Silver  (luhar  caustic), 
— Give  strong  salt  and  water,  pro- 
voke vomiting,  repeat  many  times. 
e74 


Opiuin  -  (laudanum,  morphine, 
paregoric,  etc.).— Provoke  vbmiting 
repeatedly,  give  strong  coffee  or  tea 
in  larjge  quantities,  keep  up  the 
breathing,  walk  patient  around,  do 
not  allow  him  to  go  to  sleep. 

Phosphorus.— Provoke  voihiting 
by  repeated  five-grain  doses  of  sul- 
phate of  copper,  give  dose  of  mag- 
nesia, but  no  oil. 

Poisonous  Gases. — Fresh  air, 
oxygen,  artificial  respiration,  nitro- 
glycerine, stimulation. 

Of  course  it  would  be  decidedly 
dangerous  for  any  one  except  a  physi- 
cian to  meddle  with  the  drugs  men- 
tioned as  antidotes.  When  poison'^ 
has  been  taken,  a  doctor  should  be 
sent  for  in  hot-haste.  A  stomach 
pump  may  be  required,  even  in  what 
seems  a  simple  case  lo  treat,  and 
patients  frequently  require  ah  anti- 
dote or  stimulant  administered  hypo- 
dermatically,  A  physician  Is  certainly 
the  first  necessity,  but  while  awaiting 
his  arrival  it  is  highly  necessary  not 
one  instant  of  time  should  be  lost, 
lest  the  patient  soon  sink  beyond  as- 
sistance. Something  may  be  done  in 
every  case  if  the  proper  method  be 
understood. 

To  provoke  vomiting,  mix  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ground  mustard  in  a  pint 
of  lukewarm  water  (give  warm  water 
alone  while  mixing  the  mustard  and 
water),  or  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
ipecac,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
syrup,  or  a  quicker  and  simpler  way, 
thrust  the  finger  down  the  throat. 

Paste  up  a  printed  list  of  poisons^ 
and  antidotes  on  the  inside  of  some' 
closet  door. 

Toadstool  (hemlock,  tobacco, 
etc.). — Provoke  vomiting  and  give  a 
purge,  stimulate  well  and  keep  up  th» 
breathing,  preferably  with  battery. 


Scientific  Hygienic  Cookery. 

KATE  FIELD  has  a  word  of  advice  for  the  coming  woman. 
"  Dear  Graduates"  (she  says,  in  addressing  a  class  of  col- 
lege girls):  "Cooking  is  the  alphabet  of  your  happiness. 
I  do  not  hesitate  to  affirm  that  this  Republic,  great  as  heir 
necessities  are  in  many  directions,  needs  cooks  more  than  all  else. 
The  salvation  of  the  national  stomach  depends  upon  them.  We  are 
a  nation  of  dyspeptics,  and  Americans  are  dyspeptics  because  they 
eat  the  wrong  foods,  badly  cooked,  which  they  drown  in  ice  water. 
They  are  dyspeptics,  because  our  women  don't  know  the  rudiments 
of  their  business,  and  resign  their  kitchens  into  the  hands  of  incom- 
petent servants,  of  whom  they  are  afraid,  and  whose  impudence  they 
frequently  endure  through  sheer  helplessness.  Be  cooks  first,  and 
anything  you  please  afterward.     On  you  posterity  waits." 

In  the  A,  B,  C,  of  a  girl's  life  Cooking  really  comes  first.  It  is 
the  beginning  of  the  alphabet  of  happiness.  Remember  the  table  is 
the  hub  upon  which  the  health  of  the  family  revolves.  Doctors  are 
turned  from  our  medical  schools  by  the  hundreds  to  thrive  off 
badly-fed  people.  Ruskin  tells  us  that  a  nation's  wealth  depends 
entirely  upon  the  number  of  healthy  individuals  the  nation  can  show. 
If  this  be  true,  then  are  we  poor  indeed  in  America. 

A  person  who  is  insufficiently  nourished  is  in  condition  to  accept 
and  keep  almost  any  disease  that  is  flying  in  the  atmosphere.  We 
are  fold  that  if  our  stomach  is  in  a  healthy  condition,  we  need  not  fear 
cholera  or  yellow  fever — ^two  dread  diseases.  We  are  also  told  that 
the  well  fed,  whose  bodies  are  in  a  perfect  condition,  are  safe  in 
typhus  regions ;  and  we  do  know  that  the  happiness  of  the  individual 
is  largely  due  to  the  condition  of  hfs  stomach.  Edwin  Russell  made 
a  very  truthful  remark  when  he  said  that  "  the  physique  has  much 
more  to  do  with  the  success  of  the  man  than  his  actual  mental  power, 
and  where  the  two  are  combined  success  is  certain."  It  requires  but 
little  observation  to  note  that  the  very  brainy  man,  with  a  poor  and 
insufficiently-nourished  body,  lasts  but  a  little  while.  In  sharp  con^' 
trast  to  his  short  career  is  the  well-fed  and  energetic  man  whose  body 
is  equal  in  development,  and  who  goes  on  to  comfortable  old  age. 

Boys  and  girls,  at  the  age  of  entering  college,  break  down,  not 
having  the  physique  to  go  on  with  their  studies,  although  their  brain 

•76 


676  SCIENTIFIC  HYGIENIC  COOKERY. 

powers  are  perfectly  developed.  The  mother,  in  building  this  foun- 
dation, has  forgotten  to  put  in  the  lasting  stones.  Not  because  she 
wishes  to  do  it,  but  because  cooking  has  fallen  to  the  share  of  the 
ignorant,  and  she  has  been  willing  to  trust  her  family  in  their  hands; 
and  as  a  result,  when  the  boys  or  girls  ei^ter  the  work  of  life,  they 
enter  it  tired  and  worn,  and  do  not  find  themselves  at  forty  with  a 
Gladstone  physique  at  eighty.  Not  rich  or  costly  dishes,  but  simple 
food  so  well  prepared  that  the  satisfied  body  shall  not  think  of  itself 
from  one  meal  to  another.  It  is  the  discomfort  and  hankering  of  an 
ill-fed  stomach  that  drives  some  men  to  drink  and  others  to  the 
insane  asylums. 

Mrs.  Rorer  says  that  "  in  the  twentieth  century  our  cooks  will 
be  college  graduates,  women  of  position.  All  bills  of  fare  will  be 
made  out  with  an  object.  The  right  and  proper  proportion  of  all 
materials  will  be  converted  into  each  meal,  so  that  the  muscles,  bones, 
and  nerves  will  be  equally  fed.  And  if  for  any  reason  a  child  be 
born  whose  equilibrium  is  not  perfect,  a  line  of  diet  will  be  imme- 
diately prescribed  to  square  him  up,  as  it  were." 

The  classes  that  fill  our  insane  asylums  do  it  not  so  much  because 
they,  are  overworked,  but  because  their  food  has  riot  been  studied  in 
accordance  with  their  duties.  It  is  suicidal  for  a  man  in  an  office  to 
eat  food  that  would  be  the  proper  sort  for  a  farmer,  and  vice  versa. 
To  the  really  civilized  mind,  the  hygiene  of  the  stomach  is  the  hygiene 
of  the  mind  and  soul,  and  the  art  of  cooking  one  of  the  greatest  of  all 
^rts.  While  the  highest  regions  of  social  and  intellectual  achievement 
c^re  opeirto  women,  they  could  not  bring  their  power  to  bear  more 
effectually  than  by  seeing  to  it  that  the  dinners  of  their  husbands  and 
brothers  are  well  cooked. 

Health,  appetite,  digestion,  and  good  temper  are  essential  to  suc- 
cess in  nearly  all  the  Undertakings  of  life,  including  success  in  making  ' 
love.  But  how  can  there  be  good  health  and  good  temper  under  the 
constant  and  depressing  infliction  of  badly  cooked,  indigestible  meals  ? 
Napoleon  is  said  to  have  lost  the  battle  of  Waterloo  because  of  a  fit 
of  indigestion,  after  a  hastily  swallowed  dinner.  The  pangs  of  his 
stomach  prevented  him  from  making  his  combinations  on  the  field 
with  his  accustomed -skill  and  rapidity.  The  people  whose,  meals, 
however  simple,  are  wholesome  and  Well  cooked,  will  fight  almost  to 
the  death  for  their  civil  and  political  right?.     It  is  badly  cooked  and 


SCIENTIFIC  HYGIENIC  COOKERY.  677 

insufficient  food  which,  as  much  as  anytjiing  else,  swells  the  ranks  of 
wild-eyed  Anarchism.  Pure  food  and  good  cooking  are,  therefore, 
essential  means  not  only  of  promoting  economy  in  living,  and  har- 
mony in  the  domestic  circle,  but  of  preserving  the  general  peace  of 
society. 

"  It  is  stated  on  authority,  that  three-fourths  of  the  diseases  which 
afflict  mankind  have  their  origin  in  innutritions  and  unwholesome 
food.  It  is  also  stated  that,  other  things  being  equal,  man's  power  of 
resistance  to  evil  is  in  direct  proportion  to  his  physical  vigor.  If 
these  two  statements  are  true,  no  other  plea  is  needed  in  favor  of 
wholesome  food." 

Hygienic  cookery  implies  a  knowledge  of  the  waste  and  repair  in 
the  human  system,  and  the  relative  value  of  various  food  elements, 
and  the  chemical  changes  they  undergo  during  the  process  of  diges- 
tion. Heat  is  required  to  maintain  the  body  at  a  normal  tempera- 
ture. This  heat  is  supplied  by  carbon  in  our  food.  If  the  food  is 
deficient  in  carbon,  we  become  thin  and  cold ;  on  the  other  hand,  if 
carbon  is  supplied  in  excess,  the  body  becomes  fat,  and  is  easily  over- 
come by  heat.  Skin  diseases,  also,  and  those  of  an  inflanimatory 
nature,  are  often  produced  by  an  excessive  carbonaceous  diet. 

A  highly  carbonaceous  diet  should  be  avoided  in  warm  weather, 
if  we  would  escape  the  depressing  effects  of  the  heated  term.  The 
lumberman,  daily  exposed  to  the  rigors  of  a  northern  winter,  would 
almost  perish  without  it.  Carbon  is  to  the  human  body  what  fuel  is 
to  the  fire ;  and  though  necessary  to  the  life  of  every  man,  woman, 
and  child,  the  amount  required  by  each  varies  with  the  season  of  the 
year,  the  occupation,  or  individual  powers  of  assimilation.  There  is, 
also,  a  constant  loss  of  brain  and  nervous'force  and  energy  in  pi;opor- 
tion  to  the  demands  made  upon  each  of  us  by  our  life's  work.  The 
di?t  of  professional  men,  students,  teachers,  and  all  brain-workers, 
should  be  simple,  nutritious,  easy  of  digestion,  and  rich  in  the  phos- 
phates, which  build  up  brain  and  nerve. 

Although  cheese  is  stronger  in  phosphates  than  any  other  article 
of  food,  it  is  too  concentrated  to  be  indulged  in  freely  by  persons  of 
sedentary  habits.  Cheese  and  beans  are  pre-eminently  the  food  of 
the  working-man,  the  latter  containing  twenty-four  per  cent,  of  nitro- 
genous or  musde-making  matter,  and  cheese  sixty-five  per  cent.  It 
is  obvious  that  the  large  proportion  of  nitrates  requires  to  be  supple- 
37 


578  SCIENTIFIC  HYGIENIC  COOKERY. 

mented  with  food  of- which  carbon  is  the  chief  constituent  Besides 
the  carbonates,  which  supply  fuel,  the  nitrates,  which  repair  muscular 
waste,  and  the  phosphates,  brain  and  nervous  force,  there  are  other 
necessary,  though  less  important  substances,  which  go  to  renew  the 
fourteen  elements  of  which  the  human  body  is  composed  •  as  lime, 
potash,  sulphur,  etc.  It  is  the  primary  object  of  hygienic  cookery,  to 
supply  these  elements  in  the  right  proportion,  and  ia  a  condition  in 
which  they  may  be  most  easily  assimilated.  The  marked  absence  of 
any  of  the  more  important,  results  in  weakened  vitality,  and  the  ex- 
cess, by  overtaxing  the  various  functions  of  the  body  in  the  effort  to 
dispose  of  what  is  nothing  more  than  waste  matter. 

Fat  and  heat-producing  materials  are  found  abundantly  in  rice, 
cornmeal,  starch,  honey,  cream,  sugar,  butter,  etc. ;  ^nd  in  lesser  pro- 
portion in  nearly  all  food  products  in  their  wholesome  state.  Much 
of  the  nutritive  property  of  food  depends  upon  the  manner  of  cooking. 

All  meats  not  intended  for  soups  should  be  exposed  to  intense 
heat  for  the  first  few  minutes  of  the  cooking  process,  to  coagulate  the 
albumen  on  the  outside,  which  prevents  the  escape  of  the  juices,  and, 
therefore,  of  flavor  and  nutrition.  To  boil  meat,  immerse  in  boiling 
water  and  boil-  rapidly  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  stew  gently,  but 
steadily,  until  tender.  Long-continued  hard  boiling  toughens  the 
fibre  of  the  tenderest  meat,  and  renders  it  indigestible  and  flavorless, 
since  rapid  evaporation  involves  a  loss  of  flavor.  If  both  the  broth 
and  meat  are  to  be  used — that  is,  if  a  stew  is  to  be  made — the 
process  should  be  entirely  different.  For  stewing,  the  meat  should 
be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  cold  water,  in  order  that  as  much 
of  the  juice  and  n»tural  material  as  possible  may  be  dissolved.  The 
temperature  of  the  it^ater  should  then  be  raised  to  about  180  degrees 
Fahrenheit,  and  kept  there  for  some  hours.  Treated  in  this  way,  the 
broth  will  be  rich  and  the  meat  tender  and  juicy.  If  the  water  be 
made  much  hotter  than  18^  degrees  Fahrenheit,  the  result  will  be 
dry,  hard  fibres. 

Meats  to  be  baked  may  hawe  a  carving-fork  thrust  into  the  fat 
portion,  where  the  juices  do  not  flow,  and  be  held  over  a  bed  of  hot 
coals  or  a  gasoline  biirner,  until  thfc  outside  is  seared.  Continue  the 
process  of  cooking  in  the  oven  at  a  lower  temperature.  Turn  and 
baste  frequently,  and  serve  rare,  if  the  foapt  v  kt^c  pork  requires 
always  to  be  thoroughly  cooked.^ 


SCIENTIFIC  HYGIENIC  COOKERY.  579 

All  vegetables  should  be  put  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  with 
salt,  except  corn  and  beans,  on  which  salt  has  a  hardening  effect,  and 
boiled  rapidly  and  constantly  until  done.  Green  peas,  and  corn  when 
cut  off  the  cob,  parsnips,  summer  squash,  and.  string  beans,  should 
not  have  more  water  put  on  them:  than  will  boil  away  by  the  time 
they  are  done,  as  the  liquor  contains  a  large  part  of  the  nutriment, 
which  would  be  lost  if  poured  off.  Corn  boiled  more  than  20  minutes 
is  rendered  tough  and  difficult  of  digestion.  The  time  for  cooking 
other  vegetables  varies  somewhat  with  age,  variety,  etc.,  and  can,  only 
be  determined  by  experiment  Too  long  cooking  renders  the  more 
delicate  varieties  insipid  and  flavorless ;  too  little  does  not  secure  the 
proper  bursting  of  the  starch  cells  necessary  to  easy  digestion.  Rice 
and  cereals  require  thorough  cooking.  Fruits  should  be  closely 
covered  and  cooked  slowly  until  just  done,  not  longer,  as  their  deli- 
cacy would  be  impaired. 

Experiments  indicate  that  roastfe'd  meat  is  more  completely  di- 
gested than  boiled  meat.  The  smaller  the  cut  to  be  roasted,  the  hotter 
should  be  the  fire.  An  intensely  hot  fire  makes  a  thick  crust  on  the 
outside  of  the  roast,  by  coagulation,  and  prevents  the  drying  up  of 
the  juices  inside.  The  same  rule  holds  good  for  broiling.  A  steak 
exposed  to  an  intense  heat  for  ten  minutes  will  be  thoroughly  cooked, 
and  yet  have  the  desirable  rare,  juicy  appearance  when  cut. 

Patty  Poods. 

Many  physicians  are  ordering  thin  bread  and  butter  for  delicate 
patients,  especially  those  suffering  from  dyspepsia,  consumption,  and 
anaemia,  or  any  who  need  to  take  on  flesh.  This  thin  bread  and  butter 
insensibly  induces  persons  to  eat  much  more  ^^butter  than  they  have 
any  idea  of.  This  is  one  advantage,  and  a  great  one,  in  the  feeding 
of  invalids,  for~they  are  thereby  provided  with  an  excellent  form  of 
the  fat  which  is  so  essential  for  their  nutrition,  in  a  way  that  lures 
them  to  take  it  without  rebellion.  But  the  thin  bread  and  butter  has 
another  advantage,- equally  great;  it  is  very  digestible,  and  .easily 
assimilated.  Fresh  butter,  made  from  cream,  is  very  much  more 
digestible  when  spread  upon  thin  slices  of  bread,  than  the  same 
amount  of  cream,  eaten  as  cream  per  se,  would  be. 

Very  few  housekeepers  can  realize  the  nutritive  value  of  cream 
and  understand  its  superiority  to  any  other  solid  fats,  in  permitting 


680  SCIENTIFIC  HYGIENIC  COOKERY.  ' 

the  gastric  juice  to  mix  with  it  in  the  most  perfect  manner,  and  in 
this  way  aiding  and  hastening  digestion.  It  is  invaluable  in  the  case 
of  invalids,  for  it  serves  as  nutriment  in  a  very  available  form.  It  is 
superior  to  butter,  because  it  contains  more  volatile  oil  than  butter 
made  from  it.  It  is  frequently  ordered  by  physicians  for  persons 
consumptively  inclined,  for  thoSe  with  feeble  digestions,  or  aged 
persons,  and  for  those  who  suffer  from  impaired  circulation,  cold  feet, 
and  who  feel  chilly  from  want  of  nutriment.  No  other  article  of  food 
gives  such  satisfactory  results. 

Many  complain  that  they  cannot  drink  milk  without  its  disagree- 
ing with  them.  The  common  reason  why  milk  is  not  digested  readily 
is  that  it  is  taken  too  rapidly  into  the  stomach,  where  it  becomes  one 
solid  mass,  difficult  of  digestion.  If  it  is  sipped,  it  is  so  divided  on 
reaching  the  stomach  that,  while  coagulated  by  the,  gastric  juices, 
instead  of  being  in  one  hard  mass,  it  is  in  the  form  of  a  sponge,  and 
in  this  form  more  readily  acted  updh  throughout  by  the  digestive 
fluids. 

Fruits.  / 

There  is  nothing  so  brightens  the  complexion  and  heightens  the 
color  as  a  diet  of  sweet,  winy  fruits.  (Of  course  not  forgetting  a 
system  of  baths  and  exercise.)  Buy  grapes,  peaches,  and  plums  by 
the  box,  and  eat  them  before  they  have  time  to  spoil.  When  these 
are  gone,  get  sweet  oranges  and  tart  grape  fruit.  It  is  a  mistake  to 
keep  fruit.  When  a  peach  has  lost  its  bloom,  or  a  bunch  of  grapes 
has  a  brown,  dried  stem,  it  is  no  longer  a  beautifying  or  vitializing 
food. 

"  Garden-of-Eden  breakfasts  "^have  no  rival  as  natural  cosmetics. 
►  All  manner  of  fruits,  with  just  enough  of  some  daintly-cooked  cereal 
to  render  the  repast  sufficient,  will  give  to  any  devotee  of  this  regimen 
a  complexion  that  will  be  the  envy  of  the  less  fortunate.  Unite  to 
this  fare  such  beverages  as  orangeade,  lemonade,  fruit  juices,  root- 
beers,  and  cereal  coffees,  and  the  day  is  well  begun. 

Figs,  dates,  prunes,  stewed  currants,  and  even  dried  apples  can  be 
made  to  do  duty  for  this  purpose,  and  it  is  surprising  what  an  amount 
of  nourishment  and  working  strength  can  be  extracted  from  a  fruit 
diet. 

Apples,  oranges,  shaddocks,  bananas  and  canned  fruit,  of  course, 
are  excellent  fare  for  Spring,  but  the  cheaper  dried  fruits  are  by  no 


SCIENTIFIC  HYGIENIC  COOKERY.     »  581 

means  to  be  despised.  In  England  this  regimen,  with  the  additiov 
of  brown  bread  and  butter  or  cream,  is  followed  all  the  year  round 
with  the  children  of  upper-class  families,  and  the  Scotch  choose  oat- 
meal for  a  similar  use.  Our  own  western  children  are  proof  of  what 
good  flesh  and  bone  can  be  built  on  a  steady  diet  of  cornmeal.  Oat- 
meal is  a  little  too  heavy,  and  rice,  cracked  or  whole,  hominy  or 
yellow  cornmeal  should  be  substituted  for  breakfast,  The  more  of 
these  dishes,  served  with  fruit  and  cream^  that  are  eaten  throughout 
the  day,  the  sooner  will  all  thoughts  of  illness  be  driven  away. 

The  orange  fad  is  to  be  encouraged  as  most  satisfactory  in  its 
results.  Orange  juice,  whether  sweet  or  sour,  is  recommended  by 
medical  authorities  as  a  balm  to  the  digestion  and  a.  stimulus  to  the 
entire  system,  unequaled  by  any  tonic.  Women  who,  have  given 
oranges  a  fair  and  free  trial,  are  willing  to  exhibit  their  blooming 
cheeks  and  clear  eyes  as  evidence  in  support  of  the  theory,  and  those 
who  have  pushed  the  orange  cure  to  its  limit,  recommend  the  juice 
above  ^11  as  a  remairkable  sedative.  It  is  nerves  that  prey  upon  the 
American  woman's  system,  and  the  orange  reaches  and  steadies  her 
tingling  brain  fibres. 

To  take  up  this  diet  in  earnest,  five  or  six  oranges  are  consumed 
in  a  day.  They  must  be  perfectly  ripe,  and  the  jliice  only  must  be 
used,  all  other  portions  being  hopelessljr  indigestible. 

Nothing,  hold  the  orange  eaters,  so  tones  up  the  system  after  a 
tedious  day,  takes  the  dark  lines  from  about  the  eyes,  and  keeps  the 
digestion  perfect,  as  oranges,  taken  in  place  of  tea,  coffee,  or  other 
stimulants.  Take  two  or  three  in  the  itiorning  immediately  after 
rising,  at  midday  two  more,  and  half  an  hour  before  dinner  take  the 
remainder  of  the  half  dozen. 

An  apple  diet  is  also  one  of  the  easiest  foods  for  the  stomach  to 
deal  with,  the  whole  process  of  digestion  only  consuming  eighty-five 
minutes.  The  acid  of  ripe  apples,  either  cooked  or  raw,  helps  to 
digest  meat,  to  stimulate  the  liver,  and  neutralize  npxious  matters 
that  are  likely  to  produce  skin  eruptions.  Apples,  eaten  with  meat 
in  place  of  potatoes,  are  a  golden  food.  The  salts  and  wine  sweeten 
the  stomach,  the  phosphorus  is  a  nerve-builder,  and  women  of  all 
ages,  since  Eve's  days,  liked  to  believe  that  the  "  food  of  the  gods" 
imparted  its  delicate  white  to  the  flesh.  Why  not  ?  Beef-eaters  and 
wine-drinkers  are  red. 


REMEDIAL  FOODS. 


A  table  giving  the  remedial  qualities  of  the  common  fruits  and 
vegetables  is  herewith  appended : — 


Celery  for  any  fonn  of  rheumatism  and 
nervous  dyspepsia. 

Lettuce  for  insomnia. 

Watey-cress  for  scurvy. 

Onions  are  almost  the  best  nervine  known. 
Use  for  insomnia,  for  coughs  and  colds,  and 
as  a,  complesdon  curer.  Eaten  every .  other 
day,  they  soon  have  a  clearing  and  whitening, 
effect  en  the  complexion. 

Spinach  for  gravel. 

Asparagus  to  induce  perspiration. 

Carrots  for  suffering  from  asthma. 

Turnips  for  nervous  disorders  and  for 
scurvy. 

Raw  beef  proves  of  great  benefit  to  per- 
sons of  &ail  constitution,  and  to  those  suf- 
fering fro^  consumption.  It,  is  chopped 
fine,  seasoned  with  salt,  and  heated  by  plac- 
ing it  in  a  dish  in  hot  water.  It  assimilates 
rapidly  and  affords  the  best  nourishment. 

Eggs  contain  a  large  amount  of  nutpment 
in  a  compact,  quickly  available  form.  Beaten 
up  raw  with  sugar  they  are  used  to  clear 
and  strengthen  the  voice.  With  sugar  and 
lemon  juice  the  beaten  white  of  egg  is  used 
to  relieve  hoaiseness. 

Cranberries  for  erysipelas  are  used  exter- 
nally as  well  as  internally. 

Cranberries  eaten  raw  are  one  of  the  finest 
tonics  apd  appetizers  known. 

In  cases  of  yellow  or  typhoid  fever,  cran- 
berries are  almost  indispensable  as  a  tonic 
and  to  assist  in  clearing  the  system  of  the 
harmful  bacteria. 

For  some  forms  of  dyspepsia  there  is  no 
more  simple  and  effective  remedy  than  raw 
cranberries.  Carry,  a  supply  in  the  pocket 
and  eat  them  frequently  during  the  day. 
Xhey  will  cure  headache  as  well. 

People  who  are  subject  to  biliousness  ^11 
find  that  with  cranberries  a  part  of  each 
day's  food  they  vrill  be  free  from  such  at- 
tacks. 

Honay  is  wholesome,  strengthening,  cleans- 
ing, healing  and  nonrishing. 

Fresh  ripe  fhiits  are  excellent  for  purify- 
ing the  blood  and  toixing  up  the  system, 
682 


Sour  oranges  are  highly  recommended  for 
rheumatism. 

Watermelon  for  epilepsy  and  for  yellow 
fever. 

Lemons  for  feverish  thirst  in  sickness, 
biliousness,  low  fevers,  rheumatism,  colds, 
coughs,  liver  complaints,  etc. 
.    Blackberries  for  diarrhoea. 

Tomatoes  are  a  powerful  aperient  for  the 
liver,  a  sovereign  remedy  for  dyspepsia  and 
for  indigestion. 

Tomatoes  are  invaluable  in  all  conditions 
in  which  the  use  of  calomel  is  indicated. 

Figs  are  aperient  and  wholesome.  They 
are  said  to  be  valuable  as  a  food  for  those 
suffering  from  cancer.  They  are  tised  ez- 
tem^ly  as  well  as  internally. 

Bapanas  are  usefiil  as  a  food  for  those 
suffering  firom  chronic  diarrhoea. 

Pieplant  is  wholesome  and  aperient;  is 
excellent  for  rheumatic  sufferers  and  useful 
for  purifying  the  blood. 

Peanuts  for  indigestion.  They  are  espedally 
recommended  for  corpulent  diabetes.  Pea- 
nuts are  made  into,  a  wholesome  and  nutri- 
tious soup,  are  browned  and  used  as  a  coffee, 
are  eaten  as  a  relish  simply  baked,  or  are 
prepared  and  served  as  salted  almonds. 

Apples  are  usefiil  in  nervous  dyspepsia; 
they  are  nutritions,  medicinal  and  vitalizing; 
they  aid  digestion,  clear  the  voice,  correct 
the  acidity  of  the  stomach,  are  valuable  in 
rhe^uuatism,  insomnia,  and  liver  trouble.  An 
apple  contains  qs  much  nutriment  as  a 
potato,  in  a  pleasaniter,  more  wholesome  form. 

Grapes  dissolve  and  dislodge  gravel  and 
calci^i,  and  bring  the  stomadh  and  bowels 
to  a  healthy  condition. 

Ripe  pineapples  bave  been  put  upon  the 
list  of  'foods  especially  healthful  for  persons 
troubled  with  indigestion,  the  juice  being 
especially  valuable  in  such  cases.  Shred 
■viitb.  a  silver  fork,  and  reject  all  the  indi- 
gestible core.  The  juice  of  a  ripe  janeapple 
is  an  almost  invaluable  remedy  for  daph- 
theria,  the  acid  seeming  to  dissolve  the 
strangling  growth  in  the  throat. 


In  arranging  a  menu  it  will  be  well  to  take 
for  a  motto  the  remark  of  Socrates  when 
looking  on  at  an  auction :  "  How  many  things 
there  are  which  I  do  not  need !"     A  good  soup — one 
dainty  relish,  such  as  celery,  radishes,  caviare  sand- 
wiches or  olives ;  a  fish  or  meat,  one  or  two  vegeta- 
bles and  a  dessert,  is  a  bill  of  fare  within  the  com- 
pass of  any  good  manager. 

Two  or  three  dozen  tart  shells,  kept  in  a  covered  tin  pail,  should 
be  in  store  for  "  emergency  teas."  Crisp  them  in  the  oven,  then  let 
them  get  cold  before  filling. 

With  these,  cookies,  varieties  of  pickles  arid  canned  fruit,  jelly,  a 
few  cans  of  firesh  and  corned  beef  or  salmon,  a  fruit  cake,  and  what 
can  be  gathered  from  the  garden,  appetizing  Smners  and  teas  can  be 
quickly  improvised  for  unexpected  guests. 


MEALS  FOR  TO-DAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

'Sfewed  fruit.         Rice  muffins. 

Soft  boiled  eggs. 

Thin  bread  and  butter.      "  Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

GUeau  of  cold  meat. 

Baked  potatoes  (in  their  jackets). 

Moulded  prunes. 

Cocoanut  buns.        Tea. 


Dried  green-pea  soup. 
Ragout  of  rabbit.  Sweet  pickles. 

Potatoes  (i  la  cr6me). 
Parsnips  (American  fashion). 
'  Amber  pudding- 
Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit  galad. 

Weat  croquettes.      LAronnaise  potatoes. 

French  coffee  cake. 

Coffee. 


LUNCH. 

Creamed  shrimps  on  toast. 

Brown  bread.  Brandied  peaches. 

Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Fried  chicken  with  rice. 

Flaked  potatoes.  Celery  salad 

Fig  pudding — egg  sauce. 

Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

.  Sliced  oranges. 

Hominy  flakes  and  cream. 

Lyonnaise  tripe.  Thin  com  cake. 

German  coffee. 

LUNCH. 

Chicken  in  jelly. 
Boston  brown  bread  and  bUttor.     ' 
-   Dutch  apple  cake.        Tea. 
688 


584 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Oyster  pie. 

Scalloped  sweet  potatoes.  Turkish  pilar. 

Sweet  pickled  peaches. 

Cabinet  pudding,  "epicures'  sauce. 

Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Apple  sauce. 

Liver  croquettes.  Fried  potatoes. 

CoflFee,  Rolls. 

^    DINNER. 

French  pea  soup. 

Breaded  veal  cutlets.    Stuffed  potatoes. 

Cabbage  salad. 

Prune  compote. 

'      •       SUPPER. 

Creamed  fish.      Fish  kartoffel. 

'  Hot  beet  salad. 

Graham  muffins.  Scalloped  apples. 

Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 


Milk  tapioca. 
Kidneys  and  tomatoes.       Potato  chips. 


Johnny  cake.       Apple  sauce. 
Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Stewed  knuckle  of  veal. 


Mashed  potatoes. 

Friar's  omelet. 


Tea. 


Pickles. 


SUPPER. 

Shepherd's  pie. 

Stewed  pears.  Cup  custard. 

Yorkshire  tea  cakes.    Chocolated 


BREAKFAST. 

Cold  cracked  wheat  and  cream. 

Liver  and  bacon.  Baked  potatoes. 

Grandmother's  griddle  cakes. 

Bread  and  butter.  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Veal  stew.  Mashed  potatoeii 

Asparagus. 

Rhubarb  blanc  mange. 

SUPPER. ' 

Toast. 

Strawberries  and  cream. 

Chocolate.  New  York  bun» 


MEALS   FOR   EACH   DAY  OF   THE   W^EEK.     ., 


Sunday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 
Wheat  germ.        Cream  and  Sugar. 
,  Breaded  Calves'  brains. 

Creamed  potatoes. 
Muffins.  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Clear  soup 

Baked  white  fish. 

Broiled  spring  chickqn.        Green  peas. 

Mashed  potatoes.  /  Celery. 

Lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

Cheese  straws. 
Orange  sherbet.  Cake. 

Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

Salad  of  chicken  and  peas. 

Bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

Chocolate.  Jiunbles. 

BREAKFAST. 

Maple  syrup.  Cream  biscuit. 

Pate  de  fois  gras.  Radishes. 

Coffee. 


DINNER. 

(Cold.) 

Cold  deviled  fish.  Brown  breaa 

Rolled  shoulder  of  mutton. 

String  beans,  French  dressing. 

Mayonnaise  of  tomatoes. 

Wafers, 

Fruit  jelly.  Sponge  cake. 

^     SUPPER. 

Eggs,  Swiss  style.  Lettuce 

Date  sandwiches. 

Oatmeal  snaps.  Cocoa. 

Boiled  rice.  String  beans, 

Tomato  scallop.         ^ 

Salad  lettuce,  French  dressing 

Rocquefort  cheese.  Wafers 

Omelette  a  la  Celestine. 

Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Egg  salad,  with  Mayonnaise. 

Thin  brown  bread  and  butter. 

Raspberries  and  cream. 

White  cake. 

Tea. 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


88A 


Monday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit 

Farinose.  Sugar  and  cream. 

Codfish  and  cream. 

Baked  potatoes. 

Toast.  CofFeeo 

LUNCH. 

Cold  slices  veal  loaf. 
Onion  Sandwiches- 
Stewed  Fruit.     Wafers.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Puree  of  pea  soup. 

Ragout  of  lamb.  Currant  j6lly. 

Stuffed  potatoes. 

Boiled  rice. 

Cucumber  salad. 

Wafers.  Cheese. 

Sliced  peaches. 

Coffee. 


»       Baked  tomatoes  stuffed  with  lice. 
Beet  salad. 
Lemon  pie.    Cheese.    Fruit. 
Black  coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal,  with  milk. 
Fried  home-made  sausages. 
Cakes. 
Bread  and  butter.  Coffee. 


Wheat 


LUNCH. 

Cheese  omelet.  Yeast  puffs. 

Fruit.    Salad.    Tea. 


Salmis  of  pork.  Nudle  timbales. 

Potatoes.    Pudding  a  laJlothschild. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit 

Cracked  wheat  and  milk. 

Beefsteak  with  tomatoes.  Potato  balls. 

Old  Virginia  com  bread.     Cafe  au  lait 

The  picayune. 

Lunch. 

Meat  souffle.  Scalloped  potatoes. 

Muffins.  Buttermilk. 

DINNER. 

Mutton  broth. 
Fricassee  chicken.  Potatoes. 

Green  peas. 

Boiled  com. 

String  beans. 


Tuesday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges. 
Broiled  ham.  Potato  chips. 

Muffins.    Veal  cutlets.    Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Roast  loin  of  mutton. 

Celery  salad.     Oyster  patties. 

Creamed  potatoes.      Boiled  onions. 

Lemon  pudding.  Fruits.   Coffee.  Nuts. 

•,  SUPPER. 

Beef  tongue.    Chicken  croquettes 

French  rolls.    Lemon  jelly. 

Tea  chocolate. 


BREAKFAST. 


Wheatlet. 


Rolls. 


Fmit 

Sugar  and  cream. 
Hash  on  toast.    - 
Scrambled  eggs. 


Coffee. 


LUNCH. 


Rice  croquettes. 

Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Baked  apples.  Tea. 

I  DINNER. 

Celery  soup. 

Hamburg  steaks.  Brown  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Boiled  onions. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Wafers.  Olives.  Chees&. 

Baked  custards. 

Coffee. 


Wednesday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Rolled  avena. 

Fish  with  cream. 

Potato  cakes. 

Rice  muffins.  Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

Stuffed  tomatoes.  Cream  sauce, 

Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Fruit  Wafers. 

Egg  lemonade. 


686 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


Cream  of  cauUflow*r  soup. 

Veal  croquettes.  Tomato  sauce. 

Boiled  potatoes. 

String  beans. 
Cucumber  salad. 


W«fers, 


Cherry  water  ice. 
Coffee. 


Cheese. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Germ^^,  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Broiled  beefsteak. 

Hashed  brown  potatoes. 

Waffles.  Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

Bouillon.  Meat  souffle. 

Banana  fritters.  Fruit  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Vermicelli  soup. 
Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Boiled  potatoes. 
,  Green  peas.        Stewed  celery. 
Cucumber  salad.    Wafers. 
Charlotte  Russe.       Cheese.       Coffee. 


Thursday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Wheatlet.    Cream. 

Hamburg  steaks.    Brown  sauce. 

Gems.  -Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

Frizzled  beef.    Corn  pudding. 

Coffee. 

Compote  of  cherries. 

DINNER. 

Cream  of  beet  soup. 

"Broiled  steak.    Mashed  potatoes. 

Onions.    Cream  sauce.    String  beans. 

Salad  of  cress  and  lettuce. 

Wafers.  Cheese. 

Peach  sponge. 

Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  evaporated  apricots. 

Fish  cakes. 

Boiled  _eg^.    Hominy  fritters. 

Minced  vealon  toast 

Crumpets. 

Coffee. 


LUNCH. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Ragout  of  veal. 
Rice,  Spanish  style, 

DINNER'. 

Oysters. 

Giblets  with  rice. 

Olives.  -        Radishe& 

Salmon  k  la  Creole. 

Potato  balls,  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

Chicken  fricassee. 

String  beans. 

Roast  leg  of  mutton.    Turnips. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Bohemian  cream. 

Coffee. 


Friday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit 

Farinose. 

Hominy  croquettes. 

Bacon.  Toast  Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

Fried  sweetbreads.  PeaSL 

Fruit  Wafers.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Split  pea  soup. 

Roast  lamb.  Mint  sauce. 

New  potatoes. 

Asparagus  salad. 

Waffles.  Coffee^ 

Cornstarch  pudding. 

Sauce. 

Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  and  milk. 

Broiled  trout.       French  fried  potatoes. 

Square  muffins.    Cafe  au  lait. 

The  picayvme, 

LUNCH. 

Codfish  balls.     Crackers.     Olives. 
Peach  jam.      Cake.       Iced  lemonade. 

DINNER. 

Craij  gumbo. 

Court  bouillon.     Mashed  potatoes. 

Baked  redfish.  Shrimp  jamalaya. 

Olives.       Green  peas. 
Stewed  corn  and  milk.       Butter  beans. 

,    Tomato  and  g^reen  pepper  salad. 
Queen's  pudding.     Vanilla  ice.     Fruit 
Coffee. 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


667 


Saturday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Granula.  Cream  and  sugar. 

Calves'  liver  and  bacon. 

Potato  croquettes. 

Entire  wheat  muffins.  Cofifee. 

I.UNCH. 

Deviled  eggs.        French  toast. 

Shredded  oranges.  Angel  food. 

Tea. 


Consomme  soup. 

Hamburg  steak.  Fried  onions. 

Mashed  potatoes.       Vegetable  oysters. 

Celery  salad. 

Cracker  fruit  pudding.    -    Wine  sauce. 

Coffee.^ 


SKXAEPAST. 

Fruit. 

Wheatlet  Sugar  and  cream. 

Liver  and  bacon. 

French  fried  potatoes. 

Com  gems.  Coffee. 


LUNCH. 


Salad. 

Baked  apples. 


Graham  bread. 
Tea. 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  peas. 

Shepherd's  pie.  Stuffed  tomatoes. 

Com. 

Cold  slaw. 

Wafers.  Edam  cheesci 

Brown  betty. 

Coffee. 


UTTIiE  DINITBBS. 


First. 


Oysters  on  the  half  shell. 

Soup, 

Rgast  turkey.        Mashed  potatoes. 

Cre»ned  celery.      Stewed  tomatoes. 

Salad. 

Mince  pie.  Plum  pudding. 

Apple  Snow. 

Nuts  and  Raisins.  Salted  almonds. 

Candied  fruits. 

Coffee. 


Second. 

Raw  o)rsters. 
Tomato  soup. 
Sirloin  ste!>k. 
^  '  French  fried  potatoes. 

String  beans. 
Chicory  salad. 

Lemon  meringue  pie. 
Coffee.  Fmit 

Third. 

Consomme. 

Shad  roes,  tomato  sauce. 

Boned  shoulder  of  lamb,  stuffed. 

Browned  mashed  potatoes.  String  beans. 

Creamed  turnips. 

Salad,  asparagus.    French  dressing. 

Cheese.        Water  wafers. 

Ideal  tapioca  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Fourth. 


Split  pea  soup. 

Boiled  cod,  sauce  HoUandaise. 

Beef  tongue  au  gratin.        Brown  sauce; 

Browned  potatoes.      Asparagus. 

Bermuda  onions. 

Salad,  lettuce  and  cucunibers. 

Vanilla  ice  cream,  lady  cake. 

Coffee.   '^ 

Londonderry  lithia  sparkling  water. 

Fifth. 

Ci"eam  of  barley  soup. 
Fillets  of  flounders. 
Sirloin  steak  with  mushrooms. 
Bermuda  potatoes.     Spinach  moulded 
"Spaghetti,  with  tomato. 
Salad,  cauliflower,  Mayonnaise- 
Orange  fritters. 
Coffee. 


Sixth. 

Chicken  soup,  with  noodles. 

Fried  halibut,  with  cold  slaw. 

Boast  ribs  of  beef,  brown  gravjr. 

Mashed  potatoes.    Stewed  lentils. 

Celery  fritters. 

Birds  on  toast. 

Salad,  lettuce,  French  dressing. 

Cream  cheese.    Wafers. 

Apricot  ffoat,  with  cake. 

Coffee. 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Beef 172 

A  la  Mode 178 

Beef,  Stewed,  or  other  Meats    .   .  ,.  176 

Bosto^i  Roast  .   .   .   .   .   .>.   .   .   .  173 

Beefsteak  with  Mushroom  Sauce  .   .  175 

Beefsteak,  Braised 174 

Beefeteak  Pudding 176 

Beefsteak  Pie  (French  Style)    ...  175 

Beef  or  Mutton,  Curried 178 

Bfififsteak  with  Oyster  Sauce     .   .   .  174 

-    Chipped 182 

Corned  Beef,  Rolled 179 

Corned  Beef,  Pressed 179 

Dried,  Gravied 182 

Dried,  with  Eggs 182 

Dried,  Frizzled  in  Cream ]82 

Filletof 173 

Flank,  Stuffed .176 

Flank,  Rolled 177 

Heart,  Stuffed 181 

Liver  and  Bacon,  Fried 179 

'  Liver,  Stewed 179 

.  Meat  Jelly 181 

Meat  and  Potato  Pie 180 

New  England  Boiled  Dinner    .   .    .  180 

Pickled,  Pressed .  .   . 178 

Pressed 179 

Roast,  with  Yorkshire  Pudding    .    .  172 

Rib  Roast,  Stuffed 173 

Roast 172 

Stew,  Cape  Cod 177 

Steak,  Hamburg 175 

Steak,  Spanish 175 

Shank,  Boiled 178 

Steak,  Stewed  with  Oysters  ....  174 

Steak,  Broiled 173 

Tongue,  Pickled 180 

Tongue,  Deviled 181 

Tongue,  Braised ^   .  '  181 

Tongue,  Spiced  .   .  > ISl 

Virginia,  Spiced 177 

Yorkshire  Pudding , .  173 

Bills  of  Pare .583 

Biscuit ;   ....  304 

Baking  Powder,  Substitution  of    .   .  304 

Buttermilk 306 

688 


Biscuit  (Continued). 
Cream  of  Tartar  and  Soda,  without 

Milk 305 

Raised  Graham 305 

Scotch  Scones 317 

Suggestions  for  Making 304 

Blanc  Mange  .v 417 ' 

Almond 413 

Banana 418 

Chocolate .  418 

Cornstarch 417 

Rhubarb 418 

Buns 307 

Caraway 307 

Hot  Cross    . 307 

Puffs,  Oatmeal    .   i 307" 

Bread 294 

Baked  Brown 303 

Baking  Powder    .......  298,  301 

Baking  Powder,  Home  Made  .   .   .  298 

Baking,  Time  for 297 

Boston  Brown  . 302 

Entire  Wheat 300 

Graham 303 

Indian .303 

Left  Over .^96 

New  Orleans  Com 303 

Oat  Meal 304 

Potato  Sponge 300 

Potato  Yeast 298 

Quick  Buttermilk 301 

Quick  Graham 303 

.    Rye 303 

Salt  Raising 301 

Serving  Butter 296 

Table  of  Proportions 297 

Yeast,  Hop 298 

Yeast  Cakes 298 

Water 299 

Wheat,  Quick, 300 

Wheat  and  Indian 302 

Cakes 364 

Almond 379 

Almonds,  to  Blanch 36S 

Ambrosia 388 

Angei  Food .  .  .  37# 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


589 


Ukes  (Continued). 

Apple  Jelly 386 

Apple  Snow 386 

^sinana  layer 382 

Beny 385 

BlackFruit 374 

,     Butter,  To  Sweeten 367 

Cakes,  Holiday 392 

Caramel 387 

Cheap  Fruit 375 

Chocolate  Caramel 381 

Chocolate  Cream 380 

Chcicolate  Layer 381 

Chocolate  Loaf 377 

Chocolate  Marble 377 

Cochineal  Coloring 371 

Cocoanut  and  Almond  Layer    .   ,    .  383 

Cocoanut  Layer •  .   .  383 

Coffee 379 

Com  Starch 378 

Cranbeny 385 

Cream  Fruit  (Plain) 375 

Cream  Puffs 391 

Cream  Sponge 377 

Date 376 

Delicate  .   .   •   •_ 378 

Delmonico  Wedding 374 

Devil's  Food 380 

Dried  Apple 375 

Election 376 

Fancy 389 

Fig,Choice 376 

Fig,  Layer 384 

Frosting 371 

Frosting,  Boiled     372 

Frosting,  Confectioners'  ......  372 

Frosting,  Cocoanut 372 

Frosting,  Pink 372 

Frosting,  Yellow 372 

Frosting,  Wedding  Cake 373 

Fruits  for  Cakes 367 

FruitLayer. 387 

German  Orange 394 

Home-made  Flavoring  Extracts   .   .  368 

Horns  of  Plenty 392 

Hot  Water  Sponge 377 

Icing,  Almond 373 

Ice  Cream 381 

Icing,  Eggless,  Coffee 373 

Idng,  Eggless,  Maple  Sugar  ....  373 

Icing,  Lemon 373 

Icing,  Lemon,  Eggless 373 

Idng,  Soft 372 

}am,Fruit 376 

elly 386 


Cakes i 

Jelly  for  .   .  .  '. 888 

fumbles.  Almond 393 

umbles,  Cocoanut 393 

Jumbles,  Fruit 393 

Jumbles,  Grandmother's 393 

Jumbles,  Lemon 392 

Lady ;  378 

Lady  Fingers 391 

Layer  . 3S0 

Layer  Spice 387 

Lemon 379 

Lemon  Jelly 383 

Lemon  Layer 382 

Lemon  Snaps 391 

Leb-Kuchen  (German) 393 

Lily 378 

Loaf 380 

Maple  Caramel 387 

Maple  Sugar 387 

Marshmallow 380 

Minnehaha 888 

Neapolitan ' 386 

Nut 37& 

Orange 379 

Orange  Jelly 382 

Orange  Layer 382 

1-2-3-4 380 

Peach 385 

Peanut , 393 

Plum 375 

.Pond  Lily 388 

Pound 379 

Raisin  Layer 387 

Rebel •  .   .  388 

RibbcinFig 384 

Rolled  Coffee 393 

Sand  Tarts  . 392 

Snaps — Coffee 391 

Spiced  Raisin 379 

Sponge  Cream 383 

Sponge  Fig 384 

Sponge,  Small  Sheet .......  377 

Strawberry  Layer 385 

Substitute  for  Brandy 367 

Table  of  Proportions 369 

Tables  of  Weight's  and  Measures  .  .  370 

Testing  the  Cake 367 

Time  Table  for  Baking 369 

To  Keep  Fruit  Fresh 367 

Tutti  Frutti  Layer 384 

Wafers,  Almond 389 

Wafers,  Chocolate 390 

Wafen,  Cocoanut 390 

Wafers,  Q:«m  Fniit 891 


590 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


■CaKes  ^Continued). 

Wafers,  Lemon 390 

Wafers,  Seed .-  .   .   .  389 

Wafers,  Tea  Lemon 391 

Wafers,  Vanilla 389 

Wafers,  Walnut 389 

Walnut 376 

Walnut  Layer 386 

Washington ,.  385 

Joinnet  Kuchen 394 

Candles .....;.  641 

Almonds,  Salted. 549 

Butter,  Scotch 545 

Barley,  Sugar  .   ,. 643 

Candied  Violets 550 

Caramels,  Cream 542 

,  Ca^mels,  Nut 542 

Caramels,  Tutti-Frutti .542 

Chocolate  Caramels 641,  542 

Cocoanut  Taffy 548 

Colorings  for 541 

Cough 546 

Cream  Almonds 643 

Cream  Figs 647 

Cream  Tutti-Frutti 646 

Date.   . 646 

Eggs  for  Easter] 547 

Fig  Paste 547 

Fig  Rock. 647 

French  Candies -  651 

Fruit  or  Nut 646 

Hickory-nut .........  648;  649 

Hoarhound 646 

Ice  Cream 643 

Jujube  Paste 642 

Lemon  Drops  .  ^ 644 

Maple  Balls 644 

Maple  Wax 544 

Marshmallow 550 

Maishmallows,  Toasted 650 

Meringue  Kisses 645 

Molasses ^ 643 

Orange  and  Cocoanut 548 

Old  Style  Cream 550 

Peanut 649 

Peanuts,  Salted 549 

Peppermints,  Cream 544 

Peppermint  Drops 643 

Popcorn   .......' 645 

Popcorn  Balls 546 

Popcorn,  Sugared  '. 546 

Rose 547 

Taffy,  Vinegar 544 

Wintergreen  Drops 644 


Canned  Fruits    .  .....  .  ;  .  fj% 

Apples  and  Raisins,  To  Can    ,   .   .  486 

Apples,  Canned 486 

Asparagus,  To  Can 488 

Beans,  To  Can 487 

Beef  Tongue,  To  Can   .......  488 

Blackberries,  Canned 485 

Butter,  Lemon 491 

Butter,  Orange 491 

Canning 482 

.Canning,  Cold  Water.  .    ...   .   .  484 

Canning,  Table  for 481 

Canned  Tomatoes 487 

Cans,  To  Seal 481 

Cherries,  Canned 486 

Cherries  in  Molasses 486 

Corn,  To  Can .^  ...  488 

Cranberries,  To  Can 485 

Currants,  Canned,  Green 485 

Elderberries,  Canned 484 

Honey;  Artificial     ........  490 

Honey,  Lemon 490 

Honey,  Nevada  Mountain 490 

Honey,  Quince   .   .   . ' ,491 

Honey,  Tomato 491 

Hot  Cakes,  Syrups  for 489 

Lemon  Syrup 490 

Milk,  To  Can 488 

Mulberries,  To  Can    .......  484 

Peaces,  Canned 485 

Fears,  -Canned ^  485 

Pe^,  To  Can 487 

Pineapple,  Catmed .........  484 

Plums,  Canned .485 

Pumpkin,  To  Can  .   .   ; 487 

Quinces,  Canned 485 

Rhubarb,  To  Can .487 

Strawberries,  Canned .  .   .   .   .   .   .  4S3 

Syrups  . 489 

Syrup,  Apricot 489 

Syrup,  Cherry ,....'  489 

Syrup,  Lemon 490 

Syrup,  Maple 489 

Syrup,  Quince .   .   .  489 

Syrup,  Orange 490 

Syrup,  Strawberry 489 

'Tomatoes,  To  Can 487,  488 

Carving 13 

Beef,  Ribs  of 18 

Beef,  Sirloin  of .  18 

Calf  s  Head 31 

Duck 29 

Fowl,  Boiled 28 

Fowl,  Roasted SH 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


691 


Carving  (Continued). 

Goose,  Roasted 29 

Grouse 28 

Hare,    Roasted 27 

Lamb,  Fore-quarter  of 22 

Mutton,  Leg  of 24 

Mutton,  Loin  of .24 

Mutton,    Hatmch  of. 21 

Mutton,  Saddle  of 23 

Ox  Tongue Xi 

partridges 28 

Pigeons,  Trussed 30 

Pig,  Sucking 26 

Shoulder,  To  Carve 24 

Shoulder,  Boned  and  Rolled  ...  23 

Turkey ." 28 

Veal,  Breast  of 19 

Veal,  Fillet  of 20 

Veal,  Knuckle  of 20 

Venison,  Haunch  of 26 

Catsup  and  Spiced  Fruits  ....  322 

Blackberries,  Spiced 326 

Catsup  Celery .  324 

Catsup,  Cucumber 322 

Catsup,  Mushroom 323 

Catsup,  Old  Virginia 323 

Catsup,  Southern 323 

Catsup,  Tomato 322 

Catsup,  Walnut 324 

Cherries,  Spiced .  325 

Cranberries,  Spiced 325 

Gooseberries,  Spiced 325 

Oyster  Sauce  .  , 324 

Sauce,  Chili 324 

Sauce,  Chutney 324 

Sauce,  Oyster 324 

Chafing  Dish  Cookery 333 

Chocolate  Cream 337 

Clams^  la  Maryland S36 

Clams,  Ciream  of , 336 

Clams,  Hashed  Little  Neck  ....  337 

Crabs,  Soft  Shell 337 

Creme  Oysters 336 

Lobster,  Creamed 336 

Lobster  au  Naturel 336 

Oysters,  Creamed 336 

Oysters,  Escalloped 335 

Oysters,  Pan o   .  335 

Oysters  with  Celery,  Creamed  .   .   .  335 

Pan  Toast  in  Chafing  Dish   ....  335 

Pudding,  Spanish  Cream 337 

Rarebit,  Welsh 334 

Toast,  Oyster 336 


Cheese  Dishes 344 

Biscuit  and  Cheese,  Deviled ....  346 

Brown  Bread  Savories 347 

Canapes S46 

Celery. 347 

Cheese  and  Bacon 348 

Cottage 348 

Crackers 346 

Crackers,  Lunch 346 

Cream 348 

Crusts  .   .' 345 

Custard 345 

Dessert 848 

Deviled  Cheese  Crackers 346 

Flakes 346 

Fingers 345 

Golden  Buck 347 

How  to  Keep  from  Moulding  .   .   .  344 

Puffs 347 

Rings 347 

Rusk  for E44 

Smearkase 348 

Squares 346 

Straws 344 

Timbale 348 

Toast 345 

Toast,  Deviled 345 

Welsh  Rarebit 346 

Yorkshire  Buck - ....  347 

Chiclcen 135 

AlaTaJrtare 142 

Baked 139 

Brown  Fricassee  of 137 

Boned 136 

Baked  with  Rice 136 

Boiled 136 

Broiled 139 

Curry 142 

Curry,  Indian  .   .   . 142 

Dumplings  for  Fricasseed 137 

Dressings '. 136 

Fricassee 136 

Fricasseed  with  Oysters 137 

Fried  in  Batter  .  ' 139 

Little  Dish  of  Chicken 144 

Legs,  to  Cook 144 

Minced 144 

Mushroom '  .   .    .  143 

Mushroom,  Chicken 143 

MMylandjFried 138 

Patties .143 

Pie,  Novelty 143 

Pudding  . ,  .   .  .  .  141 

Pot  Fie,  Southern  Style 140 


592 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Chicken  (Continued), 

Pie  with  Oysters 140 

Pot  Pie 140 

Pie 139 

Roly  Poly 141 

Roast 135 

Short  Cake 140 

Sauces  or  Gravies 136 

Stock  Jelly  for  Poultry  or  Meats  .   .  142 

Scalloped  . 143 

Smothered 141 

Stew,     Brunswick 138 

Stew,    Creole    Style 138 

Stewed  with  Potatoes 138 

Turn-overs 141 

With  Oysters,  Boiled 136 

Clams 92 

Baked  StuiFed 96 

•' Clam  Bake"  (Inland) ,95 

Chowder 92 

Chowder,  Coney  Island  with  Thyme  93 

Chowder,  Canned  .........  93 

Cream  of 93 

Deviled , 96 

Fried 94 

Fried  Soft  Shell 94 

On  Toast 97 

Oysters  and  Clams,  Cream  of  ,   ...  93 

Pancakes      96 

Roast  in  the  Shell 96 

Scalloped 94 

Shells,  To  Open 92 

Steamed 96 

Stew 97 

Cookies 398 

Chocolate 400 

Coriander 400 

Cream 398 

Date 400 

Dominoes 399 

Drop  Ginger 404 

Eggless 398 

Frosted 400 

Fruit 400 

Graham 399 

Ideal    ._ 398 

Lemon  ,  '' >  399 

Oatmeal 399 

Peanut 400 

Peerless 398 

Seed 399 

Soft  Molasses 404 

Spiced  Molasses 404 

Sugar S98 


Cookies  (Continued). 

Vinegar  Molasses 404 

Water 400 

Cooking  for  Invalids 654 

Apple  Water  .   , 656 

Bacon  for  Invalids 669 

Baked  Milk 566 

Barley  Water 556,  657 

Beef  Broth .  663 

Beef  juice 660, 661,  562 

Beef  Toast  ......'.....  568 

Beeftseak,  Chopped,  for  Invalid  ,    .  569 

Boiled  Ftour  Gruel     . 565 

Brandy  Cocoa .   .   .< : 559 

Bread  Panada.   . 566 

Broiled  Squahs,  Quail  or  Chicken    .  6S8 

'Broiled  Sweetsbreads 668 

Broths < 560 

Buttermilk  Whey    ....;...  559 

Calves' foot  Jelly 566 

Canned  Grape-juice 557 

Caudle 564 

Chicken  Broth 664 

Chicken  Jelly 667,668 

Clam  Broth 662 

Clam  Trapp* 662  ' 

Codfish,  Creamed 569 

Commeal  Coffee  .   .  ^ 556 

Cracked  Ice,  To  Keep 555 

Cream  Soup 563 

Creamed  Sweetbreads 668 

Crust  Coffee 556 

Custard,  Dyspeptic 571 

Custard,  Rice 671 

"Don'ts"  for  the  Sick  Room    ...  554 

Drinks,  Nourishing 556 

EggCoffee  ...........  660 

Egg  in  Milk .   ,   .   .  670 

E^Milk 659 

Egg-Nog 559,  660 

Egg  on  Toast 669,  670 

Egg  Wine    ...........  559 

Gluton  Wafers .   .   .  570 

Gruel,  Arrowroot  .........  565 

Gruels.  . 564 

Gruel,  Cracker 665 

Gruel,  Milk.  .   , 666 

Gruel,  Oatmeal 665 

Gruel,  Onion 670 

Indian-Meal  Gruel 6.64 

Jelly,  Orange  . 571 

Jelly,  Sago 671 

Jelly,  Tapioca ^671 

lemonade,  Flaxseed 660 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


693 


Cooking  for  Invalids  (Continued). 

liCmonade,  Milk 660 

Linseed  Tea 657 

Meat  Jelly 567 

Medicine  Closet 573 

Menu  for  Baby 672 

Milk  and  Lime  Water 658 

Milk  Porridge 666 

Milk  Punch 658 

Mulled  Buttermilk i   .  659 

Mulled  Jelly 560 

MulledWine 658 

Mutton  Broth 563 

Mutton  Jelly 567 

Oatmeal  Shrub ^657 

'    Oysters,  Grilled 669 

Paulet  a  la  Creme 564 

Potatoes,  Baked 570 

Raisin  Broth  . 566 

Raw  Beef  Sandwiches 568 

Raw  Beef,  Scraped 568 

Rennet  Whey. 658 

Rice  Caudle 564 

Rice  Gruel 664 

Rice  Water 556 

Soup,  Cracker 666 

Tamarind  Water 656 

Tea  and  Milk 557 

Toast  Water 556 

Veal  Broth 563 

Wine  Whey 558 

Corn  Cakes 312 

Com  Pop-overs 312 

Custard  Com 312 

Johnny  Cake,  Golden 313 

Johnny  Cake,  Sweetened  .....  313 

Johnny  Cake,  Suet 313 

Parker  House,  Com  Cake 313 

Crabs 97 

Canapes  of 99 

Deviled 97 

Fricassee  of  Oyster .  99 

Fried  Soft  SbeUed •  93 

Hot , 98 

On  Toast    . 98 

Oyster  Crabs 99 

Caster  Crabs,  Deviled  in  Shells  .   .  100 

Oyster  C^abs  on  Toast .   .   .  .  ^.   ,  100 

Oyster  Crab  Pie '.   .  100 

Sauted  in  Butter 98 

Scalloped 97 

SoflShellala  Maitred'Hotel.   .   .  99 

Stewed 98 


Crackers 318 

Cornstarch 318 

Graham 318 

Graham  Cream 318 

Milk 318 

Soda 318 

Creams  and  Charlottes 419 

Charlotte  Russe 422 

Charlotte  Russe,  Banana ^423 

Charlotte  Russe,  Burnt  Almond  .   .  423^ 

Charlotte  Russe  Cream 422 

Charlotte  Russe,  Hard  Times  ...  422 

Charlotte  Russe  Lemon  ......  423 

Charlotte  Russe,  Orange 423 

Charlotte  Russe,  Snow 423 

'   Cream,  Blackberry  ........  421 

Cream,  Chocolate .  421 

Cream,  Cocoanut 420 

Cream,  Coffee 420 

Cream,  Lemon 420 

Cream,  Orange 420 

Cream,  Strawberry  Chocolate   .   .  .  421 

Cream,  Whipped 419 

Sponge,  Lemon 420 

Vanilla  Snow  feggs  ........  421 

Croquettes 261 

Baked 263 

Canned  Salmon 265 

Chestnut,  Cream 266 

Chicken 262 

Chicken  and  Calves'  Brains  ....  262 

Chicken  and  Oyster 262 

Clam 266 

Cod-&h 265 

Cod's  Roe  , 265 

Corned  Beef 264 

Egg 268 

Fish 265 

Green  Com 267 

Ham 263 

Liver 264 

Lobster i   .   .   .  266 

Macaroni 267 

Meat 263 

Meat,  Sauce  for 263 

Oyster 265 

Parsnip 267 

Potato  ......   .^ 268 

Rice 267 

Rice  and  Meat    ....,.,.,  266 

Rice,  with  Parmesan  Sauce  ....  267 

Shad  Roe 264 

Sweet-bread 264 

Sweet  Potato 268 

Veal 264 


594 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Crullers 395 

Crullers 395 

Crullers,  Cream 395 

Custards 415 

Banana    .  i 417 

Baked 416 

Boiled 416 

Caramel 416 

Coffee,  Flavoring .  415 

Cream ,   .   .  416 

Flavoring,  Caramel    ...    ....  415 

Flavoring,  Coffee 415 

French 416 

French  Tapioca 416 

Orange. ,  .   .   .  417 

Desserts 424 

Aiiy  NolUiig 429 

Apple  Float 430 

Apple  Trifle 430 

Apple  Whip 430 

Banana  Moonshine 431 

Banana  Tapioca 431 

Banana  Trifle 431 

Blackberry  Cream '.    . 435 

Blackberry  Mush  or  Flummery  •  .,  .  435 

Blanc  Mange,  Almond  ......  425 

Cakes,  Pistache 427 

Cheese  Cakes,  Potato  .......  428 

Cherry  Charlotte ,"" 439 

Clabber 428 

Coffee  Cup  Custard 425 

Coffee  Jelly  with  Sauce 426 

Cream,  Orange 434 

Currant  Snow 435 

Custard,  Chocolate 424 

Custard,  Ptunpkin 426 

Dates  and' Almonds    .......  438 

Date  Meringue 438 

Dates  or  Figs,  Steamed 438 

Dessert  Dsttes'.  "... 438 

Dessert,  Vermicelli 427 

Fig  Custard 439 

Fruit  Desserts 429 

Fruit  Trifle  .  ^ 437 

Gelatine,  Strawberry 433 

Grape  Trifle 427 

Lemon  Fluff -.    ...  434 

Lemon  Honey "427 

Lemon' Rice    ..........  425 

Meringue 426 

Meringue,  Apple  or  Peach    ....  430 

Meringue,  Banana 432 

Meringue,  Currailt      435 

^Oeringue,  Date 438  j 


Desserts  (Continued). 

Meringue,  Peach .  481 

Moonshine 429 

Nut  Cream 425 

'  Oi'ange  Cream •  434 

Orange  Float 434 

Orange  Jelly  in  Baskets 433 

Orange  Snowballs 434 

Plum  Custard 437 

Plum  Pudding 437 

Prune  Jelly 438 

Prunes,  Jellied 437 

Pudding,  Amber  .  ..,..'-...  428 

Pudding,  Cherry  .......   i   .  439 

Pudding,  Cold  Peach 431 

Pudding,  Custard •-427 

Puddings,  Fruit  Sauce  for 435 

Pudding  Glace,  Plum 427 

Pudding,  "  My  Own" 428 

Pudding,  Orange  Ambrosia  ....  433 

Pudding,  Pineapple  Cream    .   .   .  '.  432 

Pudding,  Strawberry 432 

Pudding,  Strawberry  Bread  .   .   .   .'  432 

Pudding,  Strawberry  Puff .   ...   .   .  432 

Pudding,  Tipsy 424 

Quince,  Snow 437 

Raspberry  Float .   .   .    .  436 

V    Raspberry  Meringue 436 

Raspberry  Trifle 436 

Rice  with  Fig  Sauce 425 

Rice  Meringue 424 

Rhubarb  Tapioca   ........  436 

Rhubarb  with  Lemon  Cream    .   .   .  436 

Sponge,  Apple 430 

Strawberries,  Custard 433 

Strawberries,  Jellied 433 

Syllabub. 429 

Tapioca  Fruit 436 

Tapioca,  Orange .  434 

Tutti  Frutti  Apple 429 

Doughnuts 395  ' 

Coffee 397 

Cream 396 

.    Graham 397 

Indian  Meal 397 

Love  Knots 397 

Molasses 397 

Raised 396,  397 

Without  ShQitening    . 396 

Ducks 146 

Boned .  147 

Boiled 147 

Broiled 147 

Canvas-back 159 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


099 


Ducks  (Continued}. 

Deviled ,   .   . 

Fricasseed 

Onion  Dressing 

Onion  Sauce    .   , 

Roast 

Sauce  for  Ducks  or  Game     .   .   .   . 

Sour  (German) : 

With  Turnips 

Wild  Duck,  Roast  (Western  Style). 

Dumplings 

Baked  Apple 

■JBerry 

Boiled  Apple ■   ■ 

Dough 

Lemon 

Peach  ....   

Plain    ....   

Plum 

Preserve  .....  

PuffBalls 

Rice 

Rice  Apple 

Strawberry 

Suet 


Eggs 

A  la  Mode  .   ,  ^,  .   .  .   . 

Brine  for.   .    . 

Boiled  in  the  Shell  .   .   .   . 

Baked  

Boiled  with  Cream  Sauce  , 

Baskets 

Breaded 

Beauregard 

Curried 

Columbus    ....... 

Cuny,  Soft  Egg 

Capped >  .  . 

Custards,  Breakfast   .   .   . 

Deviled .   . 

Egg  Vermicelli 

Fricasseed . 

Fried 

Griddled .   . 

Honeycomb ....... 

Ham  and  Eggs  Baked  .   . 
In  Scallop  Shells    .   .   .   . 

Minced 

Nests 

Omelet,  Foam 

On  Rice  ........ 

Omelet,  Parsley 

Omelet,  Plain 

Omelet,  Oyster 


147 
147 
147 
146 
146 
146 
147 
147 
160 

338 
338 
340 
339 
346 
340 
339 
338 
339 
340 
340 
340 
340 
339 
338 

218 
225 
218 
219 
220 
221 
222 
226 
225 
223 
222 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
223 
220 
220 
225 
225 
221 
225 
223 
226 
225 
226 
226 
227 


Eggs  (Continued). 

Omelet  with  Jelly 230 

Omelet,  Bread 227 

Omelet,  Cheese 227 

"  Omelet,  with  Corn 228 

Omelet,  Asparagus  ,   .   w 228 

Omelet,  Cabbage 228 

Omelet,  Onion 228 

Omelet  with  Peas 228 

Omelet,  Spanish 229 

Omelet,  Apple    .   .   .   ; 229 

Omelet,  Peach 230 

Omelet,  Strawberry 230 

Omelet,  Sweet 230 

Omelet,  Rice 229 

Omelet,  Codfish 227 

Omelet,  Cauliflower 228 

Omelet,  Tomato 228 

Omelet,  Potato 228 

Packing  , 218 

Poached .'  .   .  219 

Pickled. 223 

Poached,  Spanish  Style  ......  223 

Scalloped. .  221 

Scrambled 221 

Scrambled,  with  Bacon 221 

Steamed  .   .   ; 220 

Smothered 220 

Stuffed 222 

Salad 222 

Spanish  Scrambled 223 

Sour  (German  Style) 224 

With  Gravy,  Poached. 219 

Entrees 349 

Cauliflower  ...........  351 

Cheese 350 

Chicken .  350 

Chicken  and  Ham .  850 

Ground  Rice 362 

Meat 350 

Plain 351 

Potato 351 

Potato  Souffle 352 

Salmon 349 

Souffle-Tin 352 

Fish 103 

Baiiied 106 

Broiled 104 

Baked  and  Stuffed 106 

Bass  Breaded 122 

Bass,  Pike  and  Pickerel 122 

.Blue  Fish  Baked 122 

^^  Blue  Fish  Broiled 122 


696 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Pish 

Brook  Trout    .' 125 

Chowder,  Fish ,  125 

Chowder,  Salt  Fish 119 

Cod  a  la  Flamande 118 

Cod  Fish. 117 

Cod  Fislt,  Baked,  Stuffed Il7 

Cod  Fish  and  Eggs 119 

Cod  Fish  Balls  and  Bacon  ....  120 

Cod  Fish,  Boiled. 'll7 

Cod  Fish,  Creamed 119 

',.  Cod  Creamed  in  a  Potato  Case  .   .   .  118 

.Cod's  Roe 118 

Cod's  Roe  Pudding 118 

Cod  Fish  Stew 118 

Dainty  Baked  Fish 107 

Eels 126 

Eels  Baked 126 

Eels  Broiled 126 

Eel  Chowder 126 

Eels,  Fried 126 

Eel  Stew '.   .  126 

Fish  Balls,  Old-Fashioned     ....  120 

Fish,  Breaded 120 

Fish  Croquettes,  with  Cream  Sauce  ,  121 

Fish  Curry 121 

Filleteof 107 

Fish,  Flaked 122 

Fish,  Force-Meat  Balls 123 

Fish  Hash 121 

Fish,  Potted    .   .  i 125 

FishPufife 120 

FishSoufH 123 

Fish  Stew 121 

GraTy,.Plain 108 

Haddock,  Fillet  of 123 

Haddock,  Smoked 124 

Halibut 110 

Halibut,  Baked 110 

Halibut,  Boiled 110 

Halibut,  Fillet  of Ill 

Halibut  Steak,  Baked 110 

Halibut  Steak,  Cold Ill 

Halibut  Steak,  Fried  .......  Ill 

Halibut  Steak,  Stuffed Ill 

How  to  Scale 103 

Mackerel 109 

Mackerel,  Baked  and  Stuffed    .   .   .  109' 

Mackerel,  Boiled  Fresh 109 

Mackerel,  Broiled  Spanish    .....  109 

Mackerel,  Salt,  Baked  ......  110 

Mackerel,  Salt,  Broiled 109 

Mackerel,  Spiced 110 

Pike,  Creamed 122 

Red  Snapper,  Baked     ......  108 


Fish  (Continued).       % 

Red  Snapper,  Baked  a  la  Creole..   .  109 

Red  Snapper,  Boiled 108 

Salmon 114 

Salmon,  B^ked  .........  116 

Salmon,  Soiled  .........  II4 

Salmon,  Broiled  ........   ^  116 

Salmon,  Cai^ned,  Plain  ......  117 

Salmon,  Deviled 117 

Salmon,  Fresh  Fried 116 

Salmon  on  Toast |  116 

Salmon,  Pickled 116 

Salmon  Pie 116 

Salmon  Saline 116 

Salmon,  St  Croix 116 

Sahnon  Trout,  Baked    ......  115 

Salt  Codfish 1    .  .  118 

Salt  Cod,  Broiled 119 

Sardines,  Broiled 125 

Sardines,  Deviled,  on  Toast ....  125 

Shad 412 

Shad,  Baked  and  Stuffed  .   .   i   .   .  114 

Shadf  Boned 112 

Shad,  Broiled 114 

Shad,  Planked 113 

Shad  Roe 112 

Sheepshead 122 

Shrimps,  Creamed 124 

Shrimps,  Deviled 124 

Shrimps  on  Toast 124 

Smelts,  Fried 124 

Trout,  Fried 123 

Turbot  a  la  Creme 124 

White  Fish,  Baked     .......  120 

White  Fish,  Planked 120 

White  Fishi_Salt     ........  121 

Fritters 268 

Apple , 274 

Apricot 275 

Banana 274 

Beef ^.   .   .   .  270 

Bread 270,276 

Calves'  Brains    .  ^  ......  .  269 

Cauliflower     272 

Celery  ./. 271 

Clam 269 

Coffee 275 

Crab 269 

Cream 276 

Cream  Puff 276 

Cucumber .  271 

Currant 272,273 

Custard 270 

Dessert 269 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


697 


Pritters  (Continued). 

Fish  Roe 269 

Fritter  Batter 268 

Fruit 272 

Graham 270 

Green  Corn 271 

Green  Pea 271 

Ham 270 

Hominy 272 

Jam 270 

Orange 272 

Oyster 269 

Peach 273 

Pear 274 

Pineapple 273 

Pork 270 

Potato 270 

&»nach 272 

Strawberry 274 

Simuner  Squash 271 

Tomato •   • 270 

Toi^ue 270 

Frog's  Legs 155 

Fried 155 

Fruit  Salads 440 

Apple 441 

Banana     .....   440 

French  Banana 441 

Fruit  Gelatine 440 

Orange 441 

Peach 441 

Strawberry 441 

Sweet  Orange 441 

Game. 149 

Bread  Sauce.for 150 

Dressing  for  Broiled 161 

How  to  Cook 150 

Geese 144 

Apple  Dressing  or  Stuffing  ....  146 

Apple  Sauce  for  Meats 145 

Deviled 146 

Force  Meat  Balls. 146 

Potato  Stuffing 145 

Roast 144 

Stuffed  with  Sauerkraut 145 


308 
308 
308 
309 
309 
Wheat ' 309 


Gems 

Apple 

Graham  (with  Baking  Powder) 

Oatmeal' 

Rye 


Gingerbreads 401 

Cake,  Ginger  Layer 402 

Cakes,  Ginger 403 

Cream 401 

Date 402 

Fruit 402 

Gems,  Ginger 403 

Gingerbread  Card 402 

Ginger  Nuts 403 

Maple  Molasses 401 

Old-fashioned 402 

Poverty 402 

Snaps 404 

Snaps,  Our -404 

Soft 402 

Sponge 401 

Griddle  dikes 314 

A  la  Celestine 317 

Buckwheat 314 

Buckwheat,  Quick 314 

Crushed  Wheat 316 

Dessert 316 

Flannel    , 315 

Flapjacks . 315 

Graham,  Quick 315 

Graham,  Raised 315 

Grandma's 316 

Oyster 316 

Oyster,  a  Supper  Dish    ......  316 

Pancakes,  wiA  Sauce 317 

Rye Sib 

Swedish 316 

Wheat,  Sweet  Milk 316 

Hare " 154 

Hare,  Stewed 154 

Jugged ,„  .   .   .  154 

Larded .^' .  .   .  164 

Roast 154 

Hashes,  Cold  Meats,  etc 204 

Apple  Hash 210 

Beef  Balls 205 

Beef  Cakes 207 

Beef  Pie 205 

Beef  a  la  llamburg. 206 

Beef,  Cannelon  of 205' 

Beef,    Warmed    Over  with   Potato 

Border 208 

Beef  Patties 205 

Beef,  Frizzled  Corned    ..."...  207 

Beef,  Hashed 209 

Beef,  Fricasseed     ........  2OS 

Bubble  and  Squeak ^0( 

Beef,  Deviled 211 

Beefsteak  Fie 20g 


598 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Hashes,  Cold  Meats,  etc.  (Continued). 

Beef  Olives 207 

Beef,  Sliced,  or  other  Mejit   ....  206 

Corned  Beef  Hash 209 

Cottage  Pie 208 

Chicken,  Saline  of 217 

Chicken  Dumplings   .......  217 

Chicken,  Deviled 215 

Fowli  Fricassee  of  Cold  Roast .  .   .  216 

Fish  Flakes., 216 

Hash;  with  Bread 210 

Hash,  Creamed 210 

Hash,  Baked 209 

Ham,  Jellied 212 

Ham  and  Tomatoes 213 

Ham  Patties 213 

Ham,  Deviled 213 

Hash  with  Raw  Potatoes 209 

Ham  on  Potatoes 212 

Ham,  Scalloped 213 

Ham  and  Macaroni 212 

,    Ham,  Curried 212 

Ham,  Mince  with  Eggs 217 

Loaves,  Westphalia 212 

Lamb  Fie 214 

,Meat,"  Cold  and  Tomatoes 207 

Mince,  Missouri  . 205 

Meat,  Hashed  on  Toast 210 

Mutton,  Hashed 214 

Meat,  DevUed  Cold 217 

Mutton,  Haricot  of 214 

Mutton,  Frizzled 214 

Mutton  or  Lamb,  Minced 213 

Mutton,  Cold  Sliced 214 

Noodles  and  Meat  Stew    .....  214 

Petits  Pains 216 

Salad,  Luncheon  (Boiled  Meat)   .  .  217 

Scallop,  Western 207 

~     Stew.Irish 208 

Tongue,  Savory 214 

Turbot  a  la  Creme 216 

Turkey',  Scalloped 215 

Veal  Pates 210 

Veal  Cutlets,  Cold 212 

'  Veal  ala  Bombay 211 

Veal^Deviled i   ....  211 

Veal  a  la  Princess 211 

Veal,  Ragout  of.   ........  212 

Veal  andHamPie 208 

Veal,  Minced 211 

Veal  Terrapin 215 

Wonders 216 

Ices  and  Ice  Cream 507 

Almond 514 

Banana,  Frozen 616 


Ices  and  Ice  Cream  (Continncd). 

~    Banana,  Glace .~ .  618 

'  Blackljerry  Ice 521 

'    Blueberry    . 514 

.'   Caramel 613 

Cheny 512 

Cherries,  Frozen 516 

-  Chenylce 520 

Chestnut .   .  '. 512 

Chocolate 512 

Chocolate  Moss .  612 

Cocoanut ....   613 

Cochineal  Coloring .  508 

Coffee  .   ;   . 512 

Colors  for  Ices    .   ._ .   .   .   .   .  507,508 

Currant 614" 

Currant  and  Raspberry  ......  513 

Currant  Ice 620 

Fried 511 

Frozen  Custard  .........  611 

Frozen  Fruits  ..........  617 

Grape  Water  Ice    . 620 

Ice  Cream  Pudding,  Strawberry  .   .  '618 

Lemon 511 

Lemon  Ice 620 

Moulding.  ...........  609 

Moulds  forCreams 509 

Orange 515 

.  Oranges,  Frozen .  .  ^ 516 

Orange  Granito 617 

Orange  Ice 620 

Packing  .....    .......  608 

Peach .~.   ......  615 

Peaches  and  Cream-  .......  617 

Peaches,  Frozen .  617 

Peach  Granito 517 

Pineapple 513 

Pineapple  Ice 520 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream  . 512 

Pudding,  Frozen .   ........  519 

Pudding,  Nesselrode .......  619 

Punch  Souffle .  623 

Pudding,  Tuscan 518 

Raspberry 514 

Raspberries,  Frozen 519 

Rice  Pudding,  Iced 519 

^  Sherbets 521 

Sherbet,  Apricot .   ........  621 

Sherbet,  Grape 522 

Sherbet,  Lemon  ..<.......  521 

Sherbet,  Milk  ..#'.......  522 

Sherbet,  Orange  .    •   • 521 

Sherbet,  Pineapple  .   ........  522 

Sherbet,  Strawberry .  521 

Snow  Cream  .' ; >  .  .  511 


ALPHABETICAL  INDi:X. 


599 


Ices  and  Ice  Cream  (Continued) , 

Sorbets 522 

Sorbet,  Banana 523 

Sorbet  de  Raisin 523 

Soibet,  Wild  Cheny  and  Almond,   .  523 

Strawbeny 515 

Strawbetnes,  Frozen 515 

Stlawbenylce 520 

Tapioca  Ice 521 

Tutti-fnitti 515 

Tutti-frutti  Flavoring 610 

Yanilla 511 

Watermelon,  Frozen 516 

WithE^s 511 

Without  E|^ 511 

Without  Ice 509 

Jellies 465 

Apple 467 

Blackberry 471 

CalPs  Boot 478 

Cider 478 

Cheny 474,  476 

Coffee 476 

Combination 474 

Crabapple 470 

Cranberry 471 

Currant 470 

Fancy 475 

General  Rule  for    . 466 

Gooseberry 474 

Green  Grape 469 

Huckleberry 474 

Lemon 476 

Orange 472,  475 

Peach 473,  476 

Pear 473 

Pineapple 476 

Plum" .472,473 

Quince.   .   ._ 468 

Quince  and  Apple 469 

Raspberry 471 

Ripe  Grape 469 

Rhubarb  ...........  471,  472 

Strawberry 473 

Tomato 473 

Wine 477. 

Kidneys 184 

Baked 184 

Stew  on  Toast 184 

Lobsters 86 

A  la  Bordeluse 88 

AlaNeWburg 90 

Baked 88 


Lobsters  (Continued). 

Boiled 86 

Broiled 87 

Canapes  of 92 

Chops 89 

Chowder 90 

Curried    .   .    .   .    ; 91 

Cutlets 9] 

Deviled 92 

Farcie 91 

Fricassee 89 

Luncheon 90 

Mayonnaise 90 

Patties  .   , 92 

Potted 90 

Sauce 87 

Scalloped u   .   .    •  88 

Stewed 91 

To  Cook  Canned 89 

Meats 161 

Bacon 163 

Beef 162 

Broiling - .   .   .   .  171 

Glace,  How  to  Use 170 

Hints  on  Cooking   ........  169 

Lamb,  House 166 

Mutton,  The  Best 164 

Pork 166 

Roasts 170 

Salt 171 

Tough 171 

Tainted 172 

Veal 163 

Venison 16S 

Muffins 309 

English 310 

Plain 309 

Raised 310 

Mutton 190 

Chops  in  Paper 193 

Imitation  Barbecue 195 

Leg  of  Mutton,  with  Caper  Sauce, 

Boiled 192 

Leg  of  Mutton,  Roasted,  Stuffed  .   .  191 

Lamb,  Braised 193 

Love  in  Disguise 194 

Lamb  and  Green  Peas 194 

Lamb,  Roast 193 

Lamb  Pie 194 

Lamb,  Grilled 193 

Mutton  Roast . 190 

Pie 192 

With  Browned  Potatoes 191 


600 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Mutton  (Continued).  . 

Steak  with  Rice 193 

With  Oysters,  Shoulder  of .  .   .   .   .  191 

With  Tomato  Pie 192 

With'  Potato  Pie 192 

Oysters 68 

A  la  Newbuig     .........  70 

A  la  Normandie 85 

A  la  Poulette  .    , 79 

Au  Beurre  Noir 81 

Bisque .- 70 

Baked •    .   .   .  74 

Broiled    . 75 

Cocktails     86 

Creanjed 70 

Curled 81 

Croustade  of   ...   , 82 

Chowder 71 

Curried  , 76 

Deviled 83 

Egg  Stew 70 

Fried  with  Mushrooms 73 

Fricassee  of 75 

Fried  in  Butter 73 

Fried 71 

Griddle  Cakes 80 

Griddled 77 

Grilled .  77 

Loaf 82 

Macaroni  and  Oysters 75 

Mushroom  and  Oyster  Fates  ....  78 

Mushroom  Ragout 80 

On  the  Half-^hell  .   .   '. 69 

On  Crackers ' 77 

On  Toast 76 

.Oyster  Pats 79 

Oysters  and  Spaghetti     ....'..  76 

Oyster  Vol  and  Vent 76 

.  Oysters  and  Rice 76 

Pates 78 

Pie 80 

Potpie 85 

Pigs  in  Blankets,  Little 84 

Patties 77 

Ke,  Boston      81 

Pies,  Little 81 

Rckled 83 

Fanned 74 

Pan  Roast 74 

Qaick  Fried 73 

Rarebit 85 

Raw .  »68 

Restaurant,  Fried 73 

.Sausages 86 

Smothered 86 


Oysters  (Continued). 

Short-cake .  86 

Stewed  with  Celery 70 

Sauce  for  Raw 69 

Sante 85 

Stew 70 

Scalloped 71 

Stew,  Plain .   .  70 

Stew,  Dry .-  .  70 

Scalloped  with  Hard  Boiled'  Eggs    .  72 

Steamed 74 

Stuffed 84 

Veal  and  Oyster  Pie 88 

Partridges 155 

Roast 156 

Pickles 492 

Apples 503 

-  Apple  Vinegar ^   .   .   .    501 

Beet ,  .   .  601,  506 

Blackberries        .    .   .'/ 605 

Blackberries,  Spiced 605 

Cabbage 497,  506 

Cabbage,  Philadelphia  Pepper  ,   .   .    497 

Cauliflower 497 

Celery  Riots 601 

Citron 503 

Cherries 506 

Cherry 500 

Chow-chow,  Beet '.  ,    500 

Chow-chow,  Mustard ■  .    499 

Crabapples 604 

Cucumber.' 493,  494 

Cuciuubers,  Brine  for     ......    495 

Cucumbers,  Ripe 504 

Cucumbers,  Spiced, 496 

Green  Tomato. 496 

Grapes,  Spiced    .  '. / .   .    505 

Mangoes 497 

Mixed  Sweet 606 

Mushroom , 600 

Muskmelon 504 

Mustard  for  Pickles 496 

Mustard  Fickle 499 

Onion 498 

Peaches  and  Apricote  ..;....    601 

Peach  Mangoes 498,  603 

Peaches,  Spiced .  603 

Peaches,  Sweet  Pickled 602 

Pears bOf 

Plums -.'505 

Piccalilli 499 

Pickles,  To  Keep  Firm.  .   .   .   .   .49? 

Pickles,  To  Keep  Green 493 

Quinces 606 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


601 


Pickles  (Continned). 

Ripe  Tomato 496 

Spiced  Vinegar 496 


String  Beans 500 

Sweet  Com 500 

Sweet  Pickles 502 

VinegarCelery 502 

Vinegar  Honey 602 

Vinegar  Potato 602 

Vinegar,  Onion 502 

Watermelon 604 

Pies  and  Pastry 353 

Apple  .' 357 

Apple  Meijngue 358 

Apricot,  Dried 361 

Cheese  Cakes 363 

Oierry 361 

Chocolate 359 

Cocoanut  Cheese  Cakes 363 

Cranberry  Meringue 359 

Cranberry  Molasses 360 

Custard,  Plain 358 

Custard  Pumpkin 358 

Eggless  Pumpkin 358 

Frosting 356-- 

Gooseberry  Tart 360 

'    Green  Tomato 361 

Harlequin  Cream 358 

How  to  Make '  .   .   .  355 

Lemon  and  Molasses 357 

T:>emon  Meringue   .   .    .  ' 356 

Lemon  without  Eggs 357 

Maids  of  Honor 363 

Meringue  for  Puddings  or  Kes .  .   .  360 

Meringue  Squash 359 

Meringue  Strawberry 361 

Mincemeat,  Extra 365 

Mince,  Mock  .   .    .   ; 356 

Orange 357 

Pastry,  Glazing 356 

Peach 360 

PeachMeringue 360 

Peach  Custard 361 

Pie  Crust,  Plain 355 

Plain  Pumpkin 359 

Pork  Apple 358 

Ripe  Tomato 361 

Sliced  Lemou 867 


Squash ■ 

Tarts  and  Cheese  Cakes    . 

Tarts,  Apple 

Tarts,  Berry 

Tarts,  Chocolate 

Tarts,  Cocoanut 

Tarts,  Grandmother's  Apple  , 


359 
361 
362 
362 
362 
362 
362 


Pies  and  Pastry  (Continued). 

Tartlets,  Cranberry 362 

Tartlets,  Green  Gage .  - 363 

Tart  Paste 362 

Tarts,  Raisin 363 

Tart  Shells 361 

Xarts,  Strawberry 362 

Tarts,  Whipped  Cream ^862 

Winter  Apple 367 


Pigeons 156 

Bird's  Nest 167 

Pie 156 

Roasted 166 

Stewed 166 


Poisons  and  Antidotes 574 

Pork 195 

Bacon  and  Beans 200 

Brine,  to  Renew 203 

Bologna  Sausage 201 

Baked  Salt '199 

Boiled  Leg  of 196 

Bacon  and  Sweet  Potatoes    ....  199 

Bacon,  Creamed 199 

Corned    Beef,    Ham,    Shoulder    of 

Mutton,  Brine  or  Pickle  for  .   .   .  202 

Cold  Roast 196 

Ham,  Pickling 202 

Ham,  Boiled 197 

Ham,  Sugared 197 

Ham  Cutlets  on  Toast   ......  198 

Ham,  Deviled 197 

Head  Cheese 201 

Ham,  Potted 200 

Liver  and  Bacon  Balls 200 

Pork  and  Apple  Pie 199 

Pig,  Roast 195 

Pot-pie  Spare-rib 198 

Pigs' Feet,  Soused  .   ....       .    .  200 

Ke 198 

Roast  Loin  with  Apple  Stuffing  ,   .  196 

Roast  Leg  of 195 

Sausage,  To  Keep 201 

Salt  Pork  Stew 199 

Spare-rib  and  Sauerkraut 198 

Spare-ribs,  Corned M9 

Shoulder  of,  French  Fashion.  ...  195 

Salt  Polk  in  Batter. 199 

Spare-rib  Pot-pie 198 

-        re 201 


Poultry 127 

How  to  Drew 12* 

Glaze  for  .^ 12» 


602 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Prairie  Cbiclcen '.  159 

Broiled 159 

Roasted ,  .  159 

Preserves  and  Jams 442 

Apple  Butter  ....',.....  448 

Apple  and  Cranberry 449 

Apple  Butter,  The  Best 448 

■    Apple  Preserves «...  448 

Apricot    .   .   .   .' '.  461 

Barberry 459 

Blackberries,  Brandied  ......  458 

Blackberry  . 457 

California  Grape 450 

Citron 449 

Citron,  Home-made    . 464 

Cherry 456 

Cherries,  Brandied .  456 

Cooking  Preserves  in  Syrup  ....  443 

Crabapple    . .  449 

Cranberry .   .   •^.  459 

Cucumber 460 

Currant     .........;..  459 

Currant  and  Raisin .   .   .   .   .   .   '.'■.  460 

Egg  Plum 455 

Elderberry 459 

Fig    . 461 

Ginger  Apples ...,..',...  448 

Gooseberry  ..,..> 458 

Gooseberries,  Dried    .......  464 

Grape 449 

Grape  Butter 450 

Grated  Pineapple 453 

Green  Tomato .   .  451 

Huckleberries,  Preserved  .....  459 

Marmalade,  Apple  .   .    - 448 

Marmalade,  Cherry 456 

Marmalade,  Grape 449 

Marmalade,  Lemon 457 

Marmalade,  Orange 467 

Marmalade,  Pear    ........  446 

Marmalade,  Pineapple  ......  453 

Marmalade,  Plum  ........  455 

Marmalade,  Quince    , 447 

Marmalade,  Rhubarb . 454 

Marmalade,  Tomato  .   .- 451 

Muskmelon 452 

Muskmelon  Butter 453 

Orange     ...: 456 

Orange  Chips  ..........  464 

Peach  Butter 444 

Peaches    .....  443 

Peaches,  Brandied  .......'.  444 

Peaches,  Dried   .........  463 

Peaches,  Figged 463 


Preserves  and  Jams  (Continued). 

Peach  Leather    .........  463 

Peach  Marmalade  .......  ^  444 

Pears 445 

Pears,  Brandied 445 

Pears',  Ginger      .........  445 

Pears,  Preserved. 445 

Persimmon 462 

Pineapple ■   •   •  453 

Pineapple  Chips 464 

Plum ,454 

Plum  Butter .   ,   .   .  4§5 

.   Plums,  Brandied  ' 456 

Plums,  Dried 463 

Plum  Tomato 450 

Prune  .  , 461 

Pumpkin.   ._■    •   .       ......  462 

Pumpkin,  Dried 464 

Quinces 446 

Quince  and  Sweet  Apple  Preserves .  447 

Quince  Cheese,  or  Jam  .*.   ,   .   .   .  447 

Quince  Preserves 446 

Raisin 4^0, 

Raspberry    . 458 

Raspberries  in  Currant  Jelly  ....  458 

Rhub&rb .  454 

Rhubarb  and  Fig    ........  454 

Rhubarb  and  Ginger  .......  454 

Squash,  Preserved  ........  462 

Strawberry  ...........  458 

Sugar,  To  Clarify 443 

Sweet  Potato 460 

Tomato ' 450 

Tomato  Butter 451 

Tomato  Figs .  451,  463 

Tutti  Frutti 460 

Walnuts  and  Prunes,  Preserved    .    .  461 

Watermelon 452 

Puddings  ............  405 

Ancestral  English  Plum^. .....  408 

Aunt  Mary's 412 

,  Blueberry  Batter. .   .   .  411 

Boiled  Lemon .  .   '.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  413 

Bread 411 

Bread  and  Fruit .   .    .- 409 

Brown  Betty 413 

Cabinet    .......   .   .   ...  414 

Chocolate    ....'.....••  414 

Chocolate,  Cornstarch    ..;,..  413 

Cottage,  Baked 411 

Cottle,  Steamed    ........  411 

Danish  Tapioca^ 4l2 

English  Plum ,  .   .  409 

Kve-Minute    ..........  414 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


603 


Puddings  (Contintted). 

Fruit  Bread 411 

Graham  Batter    .   .- 411 

Grandmother's  Bice 412 

Green  Com 414 

Indian,  Baked 410 

l«mon,  Cornstarch     .......  413 

Meringue  Bread .  411 

Plain  Batter 410 

Pudding  Sauces 406 

Queen's 412 

Quick  Cracker 412 

Roly-Poly 410 

Rhubarb 414 

Sauce,  Bee-hive 406 

Sauce,  Brandy 408 

Satice,  Caramel 408 

Sauce,  Creamy 406 

Sauce,  Egg 408 

Sauce,  Foaming 408 

Sauce,  Gold  (Hard) 406 

Sauce,  Hard 406 

Sauce,  Lemon 408 

Sauce,  Plain  Cornstarch 408 

Sauce,  Plain  F'ruit  Pudding  ....  401 

Sweet  Potato 414 

Sauce,  Silver  (Hard) 406 

Sauce,  Wine 408 

Strawberry 410 

Thank^ving C  ....  409 

■Whortleberry 410 

Quail  .  .' 157 

On  Toast 157 

-  Pie 167 

Roast,  with  Bread  Sauce 167 

Roast 157 

Rabbits 152 

Broiled 152 

Fried 163 

Pie 153 

Panned •  153 

Roasted .  162 

Stew 153 

With  Onions 153 

Remedial  Foods 682 

Rolls 305 

Bread,  Twist 307 

Egg 305 

,   French,  Raised 307 

Parker  House 306 

Parker  House,  with  Baking  Powder  305 

Vienna 306 


Rusks 807 

Dried 308 

Rusk,  Yeast 307 

Salads .277 

Anchovy 283 

!■  Apple 291 

Baked  Bean 289 

Bean 389 

Beet 288 

Cabbage  a  la  Creme 284 

Cabbage,  Hotjwith  Cooked  Dressing  285 

Canned  Tomato 287 

Carrot 289 

Cauliflower 289 

Celery 284 

Chestnut 283 

Chicken 279 

Chicken,  en  Mayonnaise 280 

Chicken,  with  Cooked  Dressing   .   .  279 

Chicken,  with  Cream  Dressing  .   .   .  280 

Cold  Pork' 281 

Cold  Slaw  a  la  Creme 285 

Corned  Beef 280 

Crab 283 

Cream  Dressing 293 

Cucumber 290 

Dandelion 290 

Dressing,  Mrs.  Y's  Potato 286 

Dressings 291,  293 

Duck 280 

Egg .  283 

Fish .  '. 283 

Ham .'  ...  281 

Hot  Beet 288 

Hot,  Deviled  Tomatoes 287 

Lamb 281 

Lemon  Lettuce 286 

Lettuce 286 

Lettuce  in  Southern  Style 286 

Lobster 282 

Mayonnaise  Sauce 292 

Mayonnaise  Tomato 287 

Mushroom 289 

Onion . 290 

Orange 291 

Oyster  and  Celery 281 

Potato 285 

Potato  with  French  Dressing    ...  285 

Salmon    ............  282 

Sardine  en  Mayonnaise 283 

Shrimp. 283 

Slaw,  Celeiy 284 

Slaw,  Hot 285 

Spanish 289 


604 


Alphabetical  index. 


SalaOs  (Continued), 

Sweetbread 281- 

Tomato  and  Celeiy 287 

Tomato,  Cold  Dressing 286 

Tomato,  Cooked  Dressii^ 286 

Tongue 281 

Turkey 280 

Veal 280 

Vegetable .  288 

Waldorf  Celery 284 

Walnut 284 

Water-Cress 288 

Sally  Lunn '  .  .  312 

Raised 312 

To  Serve  English  Way 312 

Sandwiches T  ...  320 

Breakfast 328 

Chicken 328 

Cream  of  Oyster 329 

Deviled  Ham 327 

Dressing 327 

Eggand  Fish 328 

Eggwiches 328 

Game .  329 

HamandE^ 328 

HotOyster 329 

Hot  Roast  Beef 329 

Hot  Sardine 329 

Oyster 329 

Sandwich  Bread 327 

Sardine 329 

Tongue 328 

Sauces  and  Gravies 319 

'    Browned  Flour 319 

Glace,  To  Use 319 

Gravy,  Brown 321 

Gravies,  Browning  for,   .....   .  319 

Gravies,  Roux  for,  etc.  .   .   .   . ' .   .  319 

Oyster  Sauce   ...........  321 

Sauce,  Brown  Butter 320 

Sauce,  Caper 321 

',  Sauce,  Celery 321 

f  Sauce,  Cream 320 

Sauce,  Draw^  Butter 320 

Sauce,  Egg 321 

Sauce,  Lobster    .........  321 

Sauce,  Nasturtium 321 

Sauce,  White 320 

Scallops 100 

Fried 100 

In  Batter 101 

In  Shells .100 

Scientific  Hygienic  Cooking  .  .  575 


Shortcake 341 

'.    ApjJle „  ...  342 

Chicago 343 

Chicken •   •  343 

Cobbler,  Peach  , ,    ,,342 

Cream,  Strawberry .........  341 

Currant 342 

Huckleberry 343 

Jelly 342 

Lemon .- 342 

Peach 342 

Pineapple 342 

Quick  Strawberry 341 

Rhubarb  .   .   .  ,. S42 

■   Strawberry  ...........  341 

Sweet  . ^43 

Soups,  How  Prepared 31 

Almond,  with  Rice 6S 

Asparagus 6] 

Asparagus  Consomme  ........  61 

Beef       37,3a 

Bouillon 37 

Broth,  Scotch  Mutton 43 

Beef,  Gumbo '  .   .  4G 

Bean,  without  Meat 50 

Bonne  Femme    .   .    .   . 42 

Brown  Veal 42 

Brown  Rabbit 64 

Bean  and  Tomato 49 

Baked  Bean 49 

Black  Beau 49 

Bean,  with  Croutons 50 

Bean  and  Com 48 

Bean 49 

Bouille 67 

Bean  Porridge 48,  49 

Bouquet  of  Herbs 35 

Catsups' 35 

Cream  of   Barley 67 

Caramel 34 

Curry  Balls '...;..  36 

Croutons  (or  Fried  Crusts)  ....  36 

Cabbage.Beef 39 

Chicken  Com 44 

Cuiry  Powder  .....'; 35 

Chicken ' 44 

Consomme,  with  Egg  Dumplings  .  42 

Chicken  Vegetable  ........  44 

Clams,  Bisque  of,  with  Profiteroles  .  57 

Chicken  or  Turkey 45 

Chicken  Gumbo 46 

Cheese 67 

Cream  of  Turnip 65 

Cream  of  Pea 6f 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


60S 


Soups  (Continued). 

Chestnut 66 

Canned  Com ,   .   .   .    •  66 

Cream  of  Com  .   . 64 

Celeiy  Vinegar 35 

Celery,  Puree  of 61 

Cream  of  Spinach 66 

Cauliflower 66 

Cream  of  Onion 63 

Cabbage  (Meatless) 62 

Cat-fish - 58 

Clams,   Bisque   of 56 

Cream,  Vegetable 63 

Celery,  Oyster 65 

Clam  Bouillon 56 

Dried  Green  Pea 61 

Dumplings  fo^  Soup 37 

Egg  Balls  ^r  Quenelles) 36 

Egg  Dumplings 37 

Economical 47 

Economical  Celery 62 

French  Beef 39 

Family 40 

Fish  Cream 58 

'  Flounders,  Bisque  of 58 

Frogs'  Legs 54 

Giblet 46 

Gumbo 46 

Gumbo,  with  Crabs 47 

Game,  Puree  of 53 

Gumbo  Filee 47 

Game 64 

Green  Turtle  a  la  Creole 69 

Green  Pea   i 64 

Green  Pea  without  Meat 61 

Game  Soups ' .    .    .   .  63 

Green  Turtle 68 

Herb  Spirit 35 

Ham  Bone 48 

Hasty, 52 

Julienne  . 47 

Lobster 67 

Lamb  Broth 44 

I.obster  Bisque    .........  67 

Liebig's  Rice 66 

Liebig  Tomato 60 

Little  Neck  Clam 66 

Mock  Oyster 63 

Macaroni  (Veal) 62 

Macaroni  or  Vermicelli 60 

Meat  Balls;  Forced 36 

Marrow  Dumpling 40 

Mullagatawny 46 

Mutton  with  Cheese  Dumplings  .  .  43 

Mutton  Broth 44 


Soups  (Continued). 

Meat  Vegetable  . 47 

Mutton  Turnip 43 

Mutton 43 

Mock  Turtle,  Plain 41 

Mock  Turtle ;  41 

Noodle 39 

.  Noodles 37 

Neapolitan 62 

Oyster  Cream  (Rich) 55 

Oatmeal,  Rolled 35 

Oyster  (Plain)     .   .^ 55 

Ox-Tail 52 

Okra 65 

Onion  or, Mock  Oyster 63 

Oyster .....;  65 

Caster  Bouillon 56 

Piquant  Pea 61 

Puree 34 

Pea  .... 51 

Puree  of  Turnips  a  I'Espagnol  ...  39 

Potato  Dumplings 37 

Pepper  Pot 43 

Puree  of  Cauliflower 48 

Pistachio 67 

Potato  Cream 64 

Puree,  Green  Pea 51 

Palestine 66 

Potato 64 

Potage  a  la  Crecy 62 

Potato  Onion 63 

Riple 40 

Rice  a  la  Creme 66 

Rice  Meat 63 

Rice  Celery .  61 

Squirrel 54 

Soup  Hints '33 

Soup  Stock .  32 

Soup  Stock,  Economical    .....  33 

Soup  Thickening 33 

5  Soup  Clarifying 35 

Soup  and  Gravies,  Coloring  for     .   .  34 

Soup  Serred  Cold  . 37 

Soup,  Glacfe 40 

Summer  Vegetable 47 

Spanish  Bean 49 

Split  Pea     50 

*    Soup,  Flavoring  for    . 45 

Turkey 45 

Tomato  Bisque 59 

Tapioca  'Veal 42 

Tomato 60 

Tomato  Meat 61 

Tomato  Bean 60 

Tomato  Rice 60 


606 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Soups  (Continued). 

Venison 55 

Vegetable  Chowder    . 62 

Vegetable,  Meatless 59 

Veal 41 

Ve^,  Plain 42 

^Vegetable 47 

Vermicelli 52 

White  Rabbit 53 

Squirrels 154 

Ke   *. .155 

Pot-pie 155 

Stew. 154 

Table  Drinks 524 

Blackberry  Brandy 540 

Blackbeny  Wine 640 

Cafe  a  la  Delmonico  , 527 

Cafe-au-Lait    i 526 

Champagn'e  Cider 539 

Cherry  Water      537 

Chickory  in  X^offee 524 

Chocolate 530 

Chocolate,  Vienna  ,,..;...  631 

Cocoa 531 

Cocoa,]  Iced 631 

Coffee,  Boiled 626 

Coffee,  Creamed 527 

Coffee,  Egg 627 

Coffee,  Dripped 524 

Coffee,  How  to  Pour 524 

Coffee,  Iced . 526 

Coffee,  Meringued 526 

Coffee,  Steamed 525 

Coffee,  Sweet  Com 526 

Coffee,  Syrup  of 527 

Cranberry  Water ^  657 

Cream,  Substitute  for 626 

Currant  Shrub 536 

Currant  Syrup .    .    .    ^ 637 

Fruit  Sherbet 536 

Fruit  Punches  (Temperance)    .   .   .  538 

Fruit  Syrups 536 

Gingerade     .' 633 

Ginger  Beer     ; 633 

Gingerette 634 

Hop  Beer 534 

Koumis 634 

Lemonade     .........  532,  633 

Mead^   .  ■ . (538 

Mead,  Sarsaparilla  , 639 

Milk  Shake    , 540 

Milk,  Sterilizing -  639 

Oatmeal,  Harvest  Drink    .   .   .   .   .  640 

Orangeade ' .   .  .533 


Table  Drinks  (Continued). 

Punch,  Fruit 638 

Punch,  Leinon    ...;.....  638 

Punch,  Orange 538 

Punch,  Pineapple 638 

Raspberry  Cordial  .   , 635 

Raspberry  Vinegar-. 636 

Root  Beer 634 

Soda  Water. 688 

Spruce  Beer    .' 534 

Strawberry  Vinegar 536 

Sweet  Cider,  To  Keep .539 

Tea ." 627,  529 

Terrapin 101 

Diamond  Back,  Stewed 102 

Stewed  with  Cream .  101 

Toasts .  ." 330 

Baked  Milk 331 

Chicken  or  Turkey 332 

Cream 330 

Cream,  with  Poached  Eggs  ....  330 

Dutch 331 

French 331 

Mock  Cream 332 

"  Parisian 332 

"  Scotch 331 

Snowflake 332 

iVeal 332 

Tripe 182 

A  la  Newburg 183 

Broiled 182 

Fricasseed  Tripe 183 

Fried  in  Batter 183 

In  Cream 183 

Lyonnaise  Tripe 183 

Kckled 183 

Roast 183 

To  Buy    . .  182 

Turkey 130 

Braised 134 

Boned,  Roasted 133 

Boiled 133 

Giblet  Gravy 130 

Giblet  Dressing 131 

How  to  Cook 134 

Hish 135 

"    Jellied 134 

Moulded 136 

Old-fashioned  Stuffing  for     ....  131 

Rsgout 134 

Roast  .   .   ; .130 

Scalloped .   .  '.  134 

Sausage  Dressing  for  Turkey  .   .   .  131 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


607 


Turkey  (Continued). 

Stewed  with  Tomato 138 

Turkey  Pie 135 

With  Chestnut  Stuffing.    .....  131 

With  Oyster  Dressing *'.  130 

Turtle 102 

Baked 102 

Soup 102 

Veal 184 

Baked  Fillet  of 186 

Braised     .   .    .   . 186 

Calf  s  Head  Boiled 188 

CalPs  Head  Fried 188 

CalPs  Head  Cheese 189 

Chestnut  Stuffing 185 

Call's  Brains  Boiled 189 

CalPs  Liver,  Plain 190 

Calfs  Liver  and  Bacon 189 

CalPs  Liver  Fricasseed  ......  189 

Cutlets  (breaded)   ........  187 

Cutlets  with  Mushrooms 187 

CalPs  Head  Stewed 188 

Force  Meat 185 

Ham  and  Liver  .' 189 

Mock  Duck 187 

Pot  Pie  Crust 186 

Pot  Pie 186 

Roast  Breast  of 185 

Roast  Loin  of 186 

Stewed  Breast  of    . 185 

Sweetbreads,  Creamed 190 

Sweetbreads,  To  Prepare 190 

Sweetbreads  in  Jelly 190 

Stuffing 184 

Stew 186 

Terrapin,  Mock 190 

Veal  Head  Cheese 188 

Vegetables' 231 

Apples,  Fried 260 

Apples,  Fried  Evaporated  .....  260 

Aspaz!^^ 247 

Asparagus  on  Toast 248 

Asparagus,  To  Boil    .    .•    .  y.   .   .  247 

Beans 244 

Beans,  Boston  Baked . 245 

Beans,  Canned  String. 244 

Beans,  Lima 245 

Beans,  Shelled  Green 245 

Beans,  String 244 

Beets  a  la  Creme 258 

Beets,  Baked 268 

Beets,  Boiled 257 

Beet  Greens 260 

Beets,  Young ?  .   .   .   .  257 


Vegetables  (Continued). 

Bread  Served  for  a  Vegetable,  Fried    260 

Brussels  Spyouts 259 

Cabbage 242 

Cabbage,  Boiled 243 

Carrots 250 

Carrots,  Caramel 250 

Carrots,  Creamed   ........    250 

Carrots,  Fried 250 

Cauliflower,  Boiled 243 

Cauliflower  inT^ream 243 

Cauliflower  with  Cheese 243 

Celery 249 

Celery,  Creamed 250 

Chips,  Saratoga 235 

Chow  Waw,  a  Chinese  Dish  ....    255 
Cora  and  Tomatoes,  Scalloped  Green    238 

Com,  Baked 237 

'  Com,  Baked  Canned 237 

Com,  Boiled  a  la  Oriental 237 

Com,  Boiled  Green 237 

Com  Chowder 239 

Com  CoUops 239 

Com,  Dried 240 

Com,  Escalloped 237 

Com  for  Winter  • 239 

Com,  Fried 237 

Com,  Green 237 

Com  or  Hominy,  Hulled 240 

Cora-Oysters 239 

Com,  Stewed 238 

Cucumbers 251 

Cucumbers,  Boiled ...    .^  ...    .    251 

Cucumbers,  Fried 252 

Cucumbers,  Raw 252 

Cucumbers,  Stewed 251 

Cucumber  Toast .  ........    252 

Dandelion  Greens,  Grandmother's   .    259 

Egg-plant 252 

Egg-plant,  Fried 252 

Egg-plant,  Stewed  Creole  Method   .    263 

Egg-plant,  Stuffed .    262 

Greens 259 

Green  Com  Pudding 239 

Green  Peas,  Stewed 243 

Green  Peas  with  Bacon  ...   .   .   .    244 

Griddle  Cakes,  Green  Com  ....    239 

Hominy,  Boiled 240 

Hubbard  Squash,  Baked   ......    257 

Lettuce 256 

X^ettuce  a  la  Creme 256 

Lettuce,  Boiled 256 

Lettuce,  Wilted 259 

Lima  Beans ^  .   .    245 

Lima  Beanii  and  Com    ......    238 


ALPHABETICAL'  INDEX. 


Vegetables  (Continued). 

Macaroni 2S3 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 254 

,  Macaroni  Hints 254 

Miscellaneous  Vegetable^  .....  258 

Mushrooms .    .  250 

Mushrooms,  Creamed    ......  251 

Mushrooms,  Escalloped.  .....  251 

Mushrooms,  Stewed 251 

Okra 258 

Okra,  Creamed T^ .   .   .  258 

Okra  Gumbo,  Creole  Style    ....  258 

Onions 248 

Onions,  Boiled    ..........  248 

Onions,  Creamed .  249 

Onions,  Escalloped 249 

Oysters,  Com 239 

Parsnips   ...'./ 246 

Parsnips,  Breaded 246 

Parsnips,  Browned 246 

Parsnips,  Creamed 246 

Parsnips,  Fried  - 246 

Parsnips,  in  Batter 246 

Peas 243 

Peas,  Boiled .  243 

Peas,  Creamed    .......  ^   .  244 

<  Peas,  Stewed  with  Lamb 244 

Peppers,  Stuffed  Green  .   .   .  *t   .   .  258 

Potatoes 233 

.  Potatoes  a  la  Custard .  234 

Potatoes  and  Cream,  New.   ....  235 

Potatoes  and  Peas,  New 235 

Potatoes,  Baked 233 

Potatoes,  Boiled 234 

Potatoes,  Browned 234 

Potato  Cakes,  Sweet 2S7 

Potatoes,  Custard 236 

Potatoes,  Fretich  Fried 236 

Potatoes,  Fried  New 235 

Potato  Ribbons 236 

Potato  Rings 236 

Potato  Snow' 235 

Potatoes,  Steamed 234 

Potatoes,  Texas 236 

Potatoes,  Whipped 234 

Pudding,  Green  Com .......  239 

Raw  Tomatoes,  To  Serve  .....  242 

Rice 264 

,  Rice  and  Codfish. 255 

Rice  and  Cheese.  ...■*...  265 

Rice,  Baked 255 

Rice,  Boiled 264 

Rice,  Boiled  Syrian  Fashion .   .   .   .  254 1 


Vegetables  (Continued). 

Rice  Patties 26ft 

Salsify,  Fried 258 

Salsify,  or  VegeUble  Oyster  ....    268 

Saratoga  Chips 236 

Sauerkraut 242 

Sauerkraut,  Boiled .  . ' 243 

Sauerkraut  and  Sausage 242 

Spinach 265 

Spinach  m  la  Creme 256 

Spinach  on  Toast 265 

Spinach,  Plain 256 

Spinach,  with  Drawn  Butter ....    256 

Squash. 257 

-  Squash  a  la  Creme 257 

Squash,  Baked  Winter  ......    257 

Squash  L'Elegante 257 

Succotash 238 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Boiled  or  Steained  .    236 
Sweet  Potatoes,  Browned..   ....    2S6 

Tomatoes 241 

Tomatoes,  Baked 241 

Tomatoes,  Canned 241 

Tomatoes,  Escalloped 241 

Tomatoes,  To  Peel 241 

Tomatoes,  Stewed 241 

Truffles 253 

Truffles,  Italian  Style 253 

Tumips .    246 

Tumips,  Boiled  Whole  ......    246 

Turnips,  Browned 247 

Tumips,  Creamed 247 

Tumips,  Diced 247 

Tumips,  in  White  Sauce 247 

Vegetables,  Canned 232 

Vegetable  Turkey 260 

Vegetables,  Seasoi^ng   ......    231 

Water-Cress,  Fresh.  . 259 

Winter  Succotash ".    239 

Water-Cress,  Stewed 269 

Venison  .  „ ' 161 

Haunch  or  Saddle  of 151 

Larded  Haunch  of 162 

Leg  of 152 

Waffles 310 

Commeal 814 

Quick 311 

Raised 311 

Woodcock    . 158 

Boiled 163 

On  Toast 168 


„.*#- 


# 


