NYPL  RESEARCH  LIBRARIES 


3  3433  07897523  6 


i^'% 


.M^^"^     ^"-^ 


-1: 


ft^ 


-,rO 


:sn 


&- 


s-tv^^' 


>^ 


TK 


K 


«-'f^v^e.>,_^J^,_,^ 


1 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/culinaryjottingsOOkenn 


CULINARY  JOTTINGS, 


i^v^t^eM'Vi^^'o?.^ 


\ 


CULINARY   JOTTINGS 

A    TREATISE   IN    THIRTY    CHAPTERS 

ON 

REFORMED     COO  KE  R Y 

BASED  UPON 

MODERN  ENGLISH,  AND  CONTINENTAL  PRINCIPLES, 

WITH 

THTiiSTir  :M:ET<r-crs 

FOR    LITTLE   DINNERS   "WORKED   OUT    IN   DETAIL, 

AND 

AN  ESSAY    ON   OUR   KITCHENS    IN   INDIA, 


"Wyvern," 

AUTHOR  OF      'sweet  DISHES,"      '  FURLOUQH   REMINISCENCES. 


FIFTH    EDITION. 


Madras:    HIGGINBOTHAM   AND   CO. 

i3g  acpnintmmt  in  Enuia  to  l^is  Bogal  f^igfj^rss  tfje  33rmcc  of  5Bales, 

ant!  33ubli5l3cvg  to  tf)e  fSatiras  ^aniijcrsitu. 

London:  RICHARDSON  AND  CO.,  13  PALL  MALL. 
1885. 


MADRAS 


rKINTED  BY   HIGGINBOTHAM   AND  CO. 

1        2 


164'  164 


&   165,    JIOCNT  KOAD. 


Hg 

^^1^11 

PREFACE  TO  THE  FIFTH  EDITION, 


f^HE  Jottings  have  again  undergone  very  careful  revision.  By 
^  pruning  unnecessary  matter,  and  simplifying  the  recipes 
wherever  possible,  space  has  been  found  for  considerable  addi- 
tions without  adding  materially  to  the  bulk  or  cost  of  the  book. 

It  is  hoped  that  the  endeavours  thus  made  to  effect  improve- 
ment may  prove  successful,  and  that  the  public  by  whom  the 
four  earlier  editions  have  been  so  kindly  received  will  have 
reason  to  be  satisfied  with 

Wyvern. 

OoTACAMUND,  ist  July  iSS^. 


AUTHOR'S  PREFACE  TO  THE  FIRST  EDITION- 


^HEN  I  first  began  to  write  about  Cookery  I  flattered 
-o*  myself  that  I  had  undertaken  a  very  easy,  and  plea- 
sant task.  I  thought  that  my  jottings  would  be  composed 
ciirrente  calamo,  and  that  I  should  be  able  to  carry  out  my 
proje(fl  with  satisfa6lion  and  success.  But  at  the  hour  of 
launching  my  frail  shallop  from  the  shore,  I  am  compassed  about 
with  grave  doubts  concerning  its  seaworthiness.     Alas  !  : — 

"  My  conscience  hath  a  thousand  several  tongues. 

And  every  tongue  bi-ings  in  a  several  tale, 

And  every  tale  condemns  me  for" 

a  very  Icarus. 
Lo  !  the  wings  of  my  ambition  have  melted,  and  I  have  fallen 
into  the  sea  of  blighted  hope.  I  am  only  conscious  of  failure. 
I  undertook  much,  what  have  I  performed  ?  Whilst,  however, 
I  frankly  acknowledge  my  many  shortcomings,  I  derive  some 
consolation  in  trying  to  believe  that,  there  may  nevertheless 
be  a  few  things  recorded  in  the  pages  of  my  book  which  v/ill 
be  found  useful.  If  this  hope  be  realized,  and  if  the  Ladies 
OF  Madras — to  whom,  in  all  humility,  I  dedicate  the  first 
fruits  of  vny  labours — discover  here  and  there  a  word  of  assist- 
ance when  perplexed  about  their  daily  orders,  I  shall  be  bounti- 
fully rewarded,  and  the  winter  of  my  discontent  will  indeed 
be  made  glorious  summer. 

I  have  to  tender  my  best  acknowledgments  to  the  Proprietors 
of  the  Madras  Athenceion  and  Daily  News  for  the  permission 
they  have  kindly  given  me  to  republish  my  culinary  articles 
which  appeared  originally  in  that  journal  ;  I  have  to  express 
my  gratitude  for  the  hints  I  have  received  from  friendly  savants 
in  the  science  of  cookery ;  and  to  own  that  I  have  obtained 
the  most  valuable  aid  from  the  writings  of  Jules  Gouffe,  and 

the"G.  C." 

Wyvep^n. 
Madras,  ist  November  iSjS. 


CONTENTS. 


Chapters. 

Introduction 
I. — The  menu    . 
II. — The  cook  and  his  management 
III. — Certain  kitchen  resuisites 
IV.— In  the  store-room 
V. — On  stock,  and  clear  soups 
VI. — Thick  soups  and  purees 
VII. — Regarding  our  fish  . 
VIII. — Hints  about  entrees    . 
IX. — Entrees — concluded    . 
X. — Sauces     .... 
XI. — Sauces — continued 
XII. — Sauces — concluded  . 
XIII. — Roasting  and  braising 
XIV. — Boiling  and  steaming 
XV. — Our  vegetables 
XVI. — Vegetables — concluded 
XVII. — Rechauffes 
XVIII. — The  savoury  omelette 
XIX.— On  luncheons    . 
XX. — Fritters 
XXI. — Salads 
XXII. — HoRS  d'ceuvres 
XXIII. — Savoury  toasts 
XXIV.— Eggs,  maccaroni,  and  cheese 

XXV. — Notes  on  the  curing  of  meat 
XXVI. — Pastry-making,  et  cetera    . 

XXVII. — A  FEW  nice  PIES 

XXVIII.— Our  curries 

XXIX. — CARRIES— continued,  and  mulligatunny 
XXX.— Camp  cookery 


PAGE. 
I 


4 

12 

17 
24 

30 

43 

52 

60 

69 

78 

87 

94 

102 

114 

126 

140 

168 

177 

185 

195 
203 
212 
222 
234 
251 
258 
272 

285 
298 

314 


NTRODUCTION. 


"  The  subject  of  Cookery  is  worthy  of  study,  and  one  to  which 
English  people  would  do  well  to  give  their  attention.  If  that  man 
is  a  benefactor  to  his  race  who  makes  two  blades  of  grass  grow 
where  only  one  did  before,  the  art  must  be  worth  cultivating  that 
enables  a  persoa  to  make  one  pound  of  meat  go  as  far,  by  proper 
cooking,  as  two  by  neglect  and  inattention." — Dr.  Lankester's  "  Good 
Food." 

'T^T'^T^HILST  reform  slow,  yet  sure,  has  of  late  years 
VTr  been  creeping  into  our  style  of  living  in  India, 
the  want  of  a  hand-book  on  culinary  science — 
locally  considered — of  a  more  modern  description  than  that 
time-honoured  and,  in  its  day,  excellent  work  "  Indian 
Domestic  Cookery^'  must  have  been  long  felt  by  the  busy 
housewife  of  Madras. 

Our  dinners  of  to-day  would  indeed  astonish  our  Anglo- 
Indian  forefathers.  With  a  taste  for  light  wines,  and  a  far 
more  moderate  indulgence  in  stimulating  di'inks,  has  been 
germinated  a  desire  for  delicate  and  artistic  cookery. 
Quality  has  superseded  quantity,  and  the  molten  curries 
and  florid  oriental  compositions  of  the  olden  time — so  fear- 
fully and  wonderfully  made — have  been  gradually  banished 
from  our  dinner  tables. 

For  although  a  well-considered  curry,  or  mulUgatunny, — 
capital  things  in  their  way, — are  still  very  frequently  given 
at  breakfast  or  at  luncheon,  they  no  longer  occupy  a  posi- 


2  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

tion  in  the  dinner  menu  of  establisliments  conducted  accord- 
ing to  the  new  regime. 

A  little  treatise  on  cookery,  then,  showing  the  reader 
how  to  accomplish  successfully,  with  the  average  means  at 
his  disposal  in  this  country,  some  of  the  many  tasty  dishes 
spoken  of  in  the  modern  English  and  continental  books 
upon  the  subject,  will,  I  am  sanguine  enough  to  hope,  be 
i-eceived  with  kindly  toleration,  if  not  lA-ith  cordiality,  by 
those  who  consider  it  worth  while  to  be  interested  in 
matters  culinary. 

Thirsting  for  some  instruction  of  this  kind,  I  remember 
buying,  some  few  years  ago,  a  little  book  which  had  just 
then  been  published  at  Madi-as,  and  which  promised  by  its 
title  to  provide  the  thing  needful.  Alas  !  how  sorely  dis- 
appointed was  I  with  my  purchase,  for  the  work  had 
assuredly  been  written  for  the  Anglo-Indian  in  England 
rather  than  for  the  Englishman  in  India. 

"With  the  exception  of  dishes  of  purely  native  origin,  little 
or  no  instruction  worth  following  was  given  to  the  Madras 
housewife,  whilst  there  was  much  dangerous  counsel  prof- 
fered which  should  be  most  carefully  avoided.  The  most 
reprehensible  customs  were,  in  point  of  fact,  laid  down  over 
and  over  again  as  precepts.  Concerning  these,  I  will  say 
nothing  now,  for  I  propose  to  devote  a  separate  chapter  to 
the  important  subject  of  the  cook-room,  and  to  expose  the 
besetting  sins  of  our  native  cooks  whenever  they  occur  to  me. 

The  book  to  which  I  refer  has  not,  as  far  as  I  am  aware, 
been  followed  here  by  any  fresh  work,  and  I  think,  I  may 
say  that  at  any  rate  its  pages  scarcely  contained  the  sort 
of  instruction  we  look  for  now-a-days.  In  taking  upon 
myself,  therefore,  the  task  of  humbly  ministering  to  the 
reformed  taste  of  the  hour,  I  am  encouraged  by  the  reflec- 
tion that  I  am,  so  to  speak,  a  breaker  of  fresh  ground. 


INTRODUCTION. 


I  propose  to  carry  out  mj  scheme  in  a  series  of  chapters 
commencing  with,  cook-room  experiences,  the  judicious 
management  of  the  cook,  and  some  general  remarks  on  the 
equipment  of  the  store-room  and  kitchen ;  then  to  take  the 
salient  features  of  a  dinner  one  bj  one,  and  when  I  have 
discussed  soups,  fish,  entrees,  &c.,  &c.,  to  submit  a  number 
of  menus,  worked  out  in  detail,  adapted  to  our  resources  in 
this  part  of  India. 

I  know  full  well  that  to  several  accomplished  disciples  of 
Brillat  Savarin  at  Madi^as,  I  can  impart  nothing  new.  On 
the  contrary,  it  would  better  become  me  to  sit  at  their  feet 
and  listen,  than  to  rush  in  where  they  have  hesitated  to 
tread.  To  this  talented  coterie,  I  appeal  for  forbearance. 
I  entreat  them  to  be  merciful  inasmuch  as  they  are  very 
strong.  I  feel,  indeed,  that  in  their  presence,  I  may  truly 
say  with  Ramasamy,  that  I  am  "  a  yevj  poor  man, — I  beg 
your  pardon." 

No.  I  address  my  jottings  to  the  many  who  yearn  to 
follow  reform,  but  who  cannot  discover  the  method  of  doing 
so  ;  who, — to  quote  the  words  of  a  very  hospitable  friend, — 
"like  nice  things  better  than  nasty  things,"  yet  have 
hitherto  failed  to  penetrate  the  secret  of  success ;  and  who 
view  with  daily  sorrow  the  lamentable  parody  of  dinner 
which  it  seems  good  to  their  cooks  to  place  before  them, 
I  shall  treat  of  cosy,  sociable  little  dinners  of  from  two 
to  ten  people,  rather  than  of  the  elaborate  banquets  of  the 
great ;  and  the  main  object  before  me  will  always  be  to 
study  economy  in  conjunction  with  the  system  I  advocate. 

"Wtvern. 
Madras,  1st  November  1878. 


OKCi^ZRTEI^    I. 


The  Menu. 


LL  who  have  studied  the  reformed  system  of  dinner- 
giving  will,  I  think,  agree  with  me  when  I  say  that 
the  menu  of  a  dinner  anywhere,  but  in  India  espe- 
cially, should  be  reduced  to  the  smallest  compass  possible. 
An  hour  at  the  outside  should  suffice  for  the  discussion  of 
the  daintiest  of  bills  of  fare,  so  to  ensure  this,  we  should 
strike  out  of  it  all  unnecessary  encumbrances.  Let  the 
little  card  be  clothed  in  the  white  garb  of  simplicity  and 
completeness,  and  I  am  prepared  to  declare  that  all  our 
lady  guests,  and  amajoHty  of  the  men  we  entertain,  will 
rejoice  at  the  result. 

A  cosy  dinner  to  be  perfect  should  be,  it  seems  to  me,  a 
highly  finished  cabinet  picture  with  every  atom  of  detail 
carefully  worked  out,  rather  than  a  large  pretentious  canvas 
with  an  infinite  amount  of  color  expended  in  order  to  pro- 
duce a  satisfactory  impression.  Every  line  of  the  little 
TYienu  should,  therefore,  be  written  with  a  loving  hand,  and 
both  lights  and  shadows  should  be  considered,  for  our 
guests  must  e'en  partake  of  each  dish  we  offer  them. 

Soup,  fish,  two  well  contrasted  entrees  served  separately, 
one  joint  only,  game,  and  a  dressed  vegetable,  one  entremets 
Sucre,  an  iced  pudding,  cheese  with  liors  d'  ceuvres  and  des- 
sert, will  be  found,  if  thoughtfully  composed,  ample  fare 


THE  MENU. 


for  even  the  most  hypercritical  gourmet  we  can  bid  to  our 
table.  In  the  studied  completeness  of  such  a  dinner  as 
this  will  repose  its  chief  attraction  : — in  good  wine,  no  lack 
of  ice,  the  brightest  plate,  snowy  linen,  well-toned  light, 
and  tasteful  adornment  of  the  table  ;  with  all  minutiae 
remembered — from  des  petits  pains  in  the  deftly-folded 
napkins,  to  the  artistic  salad  which  in  all  modern  menus  is 
not  expressed  yet,  like  salt,  understood  to  be  present. 

An  extra  joint  may,  of  course,  be  given,  but  if  the  two 
entrees  be  really  nice,  and  the  game  about  to  follow  be  the 
best  in  season,  I  fail  to  recognize  the  necessity  of  the 
addition. 

And,  here,  it  may  not  be  altogether  unprofitable  to  con- 
sider attentively  certain  points  connected  with  the  modern 
banquet  upon  which  opinions  differ,  and  concerning  which 
a  good  many  people  find  a  difficulty  in  coming  to  a  satis- 
factory decision. 

The  moot  point  or  points  to  which  I  refer  are  associated 
with  the  general  plan  or  arrangement  of  the  menu,  and  in 
order  to  explain  them,  it  will  be  necessary  to  trace  their 
cause  carefully. 

In  the  days  of  old,  our  forefathers  divided  their  bills  of 
fare  into  a  number  of  courses.  Thus,  the  soup  and  fish 
comprised  the  first  course  ;  the  entrees  and  joint  the  second ; 
and  the  game  and  sweets  the  third ;  cheese  and  dessert 
being  served  independently.  But  of  late  years,  we  have 
simplified  matters,  and  the  modern  menu,  adapted  to  a 
great  extent,  of  course,  from  that  of  France,  is  placed 
before  us  in  two  "  services,"  as  exemplified  in  the  following 
table : — 

Potage         ...  Sonp. 

Premier  service  ...  ^  ^''^'^^^^       -  ^'^^• 

Entrees       ...  Side-dishes. 

^Eelevds        ...  Joint,  or  remove. 


CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


Clivts  ...  The  roast  (game  or  poultry). 

Second  service        J  ^'^'^^'"^fs    ...  Savory  and  sweet  dishes. 

I  Fromage      ...  Cheese. 

[JDessert  ...  Dessert, 
In  addition  to  the  above,  the  custom  of  presenting 
oysters  before  the  soup  is  becoming  daily  more  fashionable, 
and  many  people  have  adopted  the  practice  of  sending 
round  liors  d'  oeiivres,  in  the  continental  manner,  as  a  pre- 
lude to  the  repast.  A  matter  of  this  kind  is  obviously  a 
matter  of  taste,  touching  which  no  writer  on  cookery  should 
take  upon  himself  to  lay  dovra  an  arbitrary  law.  I  am 
personally  decidedly  in  favour  of  the  oyster,  or,  when 
oysters  cannot  be  got,  of  a  single,  well  selected,  Jiors  (V 
ceuvre.  The  dainty  atom  titivates  the  palate,  as  it  were, 
and  prepares  it  for  the  soup  that  is  about  to  come.  When, 
however,  a  relish  of  this  description  is  given,  it  will  be 
found  decidedly  advantageous,  be  it  noted,  if  plates  con- 
taining it  be  put  upon  the  table  in  the  places  laid  for  the 
guest  before  dinner  is  announced.  The  time  that  would  be 
taken  up  in  handing  the  dishes  round,  is  in  this  way 
economised. 

Considerable  diversity  of  opinion  exists,  I  know,  concern- 
ing the  next  point,  viz.,  whether  the  entrees  should  precede 
the  releves  or  follow  them.  Brillat  Savarin's  injunction 
was — "  let  the  order  of  serving  be  from  the  more  substan- 
tial dishes  to  the  lighter ;"  and  Sir  Henry  Thompson 
says  : — "  As  a  rule,  to  which  there  are  few  exceptions,  the 
procession  of  dishes  after  the  fish  is  from  the  substantial 
to  the  more  delicate,  then  to  the  contrasts  between  more 
piquant  flavour  and  sweetness." 

Now,  if  we  are  to  discuss  this  point  properly,  it  seems 
to  me  that  there  is  another  very  important  factor  in  the 
debate  that  must  not  be  lost  sight  of,  viz.,  the  rot,  or  roast. 
To  this  item  of  the  menu  Brillat  Savarin  gave,  and  Sir 
Henry  Thompson  gives,  let  us  remember,  its  full  and  dis^ 


THE  MENU. 


tinct  value ;  and  it  can  hardly  be  denied  that,  if  the  rot  be 
served  correctly,  the  releve  must  be  put  further  forward  in 
the  bill  of  fare. 

What,  then,  is  the  rot  ?  Well,  from  personal  observation, 
I  am  constrained  to  say  that  this  is  a  matter  upon  which 
many  dinner-givers  appear  to  be  somewhat  hazy.  The  rot 
is,  correctly  speaking,  a  service  of  roast  poultry  or  game : 
it  should  be  accompanied  by  a  nice  salad,  and  it  is  often 
garnished  with  potato  chips  and  water-cress.  An  entremets 
de  legume  may  either  be  handed  round  with  it,  or  follow  it 
separately.  In  Brillat  Savarin's  time  the  truffled  turkey 
appeared  as  a  rot,  and  Sir  Henry  Thompson  recommends 
the  presentation  at  this  period  of  the  feast  of  the  truffled 
pheasant  or  capon,  the  dindonneau  (turkey  poult),  the 
fatted  fow^l,  &c. 

It  is,  therefore,  pretty  evident  that  if  we  serve  our  rots 
according  to  this — the  undoubtedly  correct  interpretation — 
it  would  be  absolutely  preposterous  to  serve  immediately 
before  them  a  goodly  joint  of  mutton  or  of  beef  with  its 
concomitant  vegetables.  Between  two  courses  so  nearly 
equal  in  substance,  there  would  plainly  be  no  contrast, 
and  the  effect  would  be  overpowering  and  common-place. 

We  are  now  at  liberty  to  consider  the  releve.  Strictly 
speaking,  this  word  cannot  be  translated  "  joint."  It  should 
properly  be  interpreted  the  "  remove,"  and  in  the  French 
meniL  the  dish  of  which  it  is  composed  is  regarded  as  the 
piece  de  resistance  of  the  dinner.  To  begin  with,  it  ought, 
if  possible,  not  to  be  roasted.  According  to  the  authorities 
I  have  named,  it  should  rather  be  an  artistic  braise, 
fricandeau,  or  a  whole  fillet,  larded  and  served  with  vege- 
tables. Thus,  the  releve  becomes  very  nearly  as  elaborate 
as  a  made-dish,  and  is  scarcely  what  an  Englishman  means 
when  he  speaks  of  the  "  joint." 


8  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS, 

It  need  scarcely  be  said,  then,  that  if  this  system  be  fol- 
lowed in  its  entii'ety,  the  rot  and  the  releve  being  carefully 
selected,  the  service  of  two  light  entrees  between  them  is 
both  intelligible  and  artistic. 

In  favour  of  the  older  English  custom  it  has  been  argued, 
with  considerable  justice,  that  delicate  works  of  culinary 
science — such  as  entrees  are  supposed  to  be — should  be  pre- 
sented while  the  palate  is  yet  fresh,  and  while  the  diner  is 
thoroughly  able  to  detect  and  appreciate  the  niceties  of 
flavour,  crispness,  tenderness,  and  so  forth ;  that  a  slice  of 
plainly  roasted  or  boiled  meat,  with  a  selected  vegetable, 
should  follow  ;  then  a  morsel  of  game,  and  the  entremets. 
Advocates  of  this  very  excellent  method,  it  will  be  observ- 
ed, do  not  pay  any  particular  attention  to  the  rot.  When 
game  is  out  of  season,  they  present  a  savory  entremets 
immediately  after  their  releve,  and  send  round  their  salad 
with  the  saddle  or  sirloin.  Thus,  in  the  space  marked  in 
the  printed  menu  for  "  rots,''  we  occasionally  see  "  aspic  de 
foie  gras"  w^th  "  asperges  en  branches"  and  no  rot  whatever. 

Of  the  two  systems  the  older  one  is  certainly  the  simpler. 
The  correct  introduction  of  the  rot  is  really  the  novel  feature 
of  the  new  menu — ^^  poulet  au  cresson,  salade,''  for  example, 
never  figured  in  the  old  bill  of  fare  in  the  place  of  game — 
and  by  its  introduction  the  releve,  altered  a  good  deal  in 
character,  is  of  necessity  pushed  out  of  its  original  place. 

It  will  always  be  conceded,  I  think,  by  partisans  of  both 
systems,  that  each  possesses  merits  of  an  undeniable 
character.  The  old  method,  as  we  have  seen,  is  the  simpler, 
and  consequently  the  easier  of  the  two,  while  the  new  may 
be  voted  more  truly  artistic.  In  adopting  the  latter,  how- 
ever, it  is  a  sine  qua  nan  that  all  the  principles  of  the 
dinner  be  observed,  and  faithfully  carried  out.  We  cannot 
miss  a  single  point,  or  our  little  feast  will  become  &  fiasco. 


THE  MENU. 


We  must  not  serve,  that  is  to  saj,  ^^ pintade  au  cresson'  as 
a  releve,  or  '■'■  jamhon  au  madere'  as  a  rot — trifling  errors 
that  I  have  noticed  at  certain  banquets  modelled  according 
to  the  new  regime.  Neither  can  we  forget  the  salad,  which, 
with  its  plain  dressing  of  oil  and  vinegar  (not  a  thick  eggy 
one,  I  beg)  should  accompany  the  rot  as  a  matter  of  course. 

If  unable  to  follow  the  rules  of  the  revised  menu  accurate- 
ly, owing  to  an  indifferent  market,  or  some  other  unavoida- 
ble reason,  the  wise  dinner-giver  should  fall  back  upon  the 
older  form,  and  be  contented  with  a  less  pretentious  festival. 
The  superiority  of  the  new  order  of  things  consists  in  a 
more  artistic  distribution  of  light  and  shadow.  If  we  rob 
the  picture  of  an  effective  ray  of  sunshine  here,  and  forget 
a  judicious  touch  of  shadow  there,  we  can  hardly  complain 
if  our  efforts  result  in  disappointment. 

At  the  commencement  of  these  remarks,  I  spoke  of  the 
economy  of  time  in  serving  a  dinner — a  subject  which,  I 
am  sure,  every  earnest  follower  of  reform  will  allow,  should 
command  our  closest  attention.  Of  the  two  menus  I  have 
spoken  of,  the  older  form  would  perhaps  seem  to  be  the 
quicker  served,  and  in  establishments  where  the  new  system 
has  not  been  long  in  practice,  I  certainly  have  observed  that 
the  dinner  was  a  little  too  long.  I,  however,  attribute  this 
to  the  novelty  of  the  service,  which  at  first  very  naturally 
perplexes  servants  who  have  long  been  accustomed  to  a 
different  method.  When  once  understood  and  generally 
adopted,  I  do  not  think  that  the  new  arrangement  will  be 
found  longer  than  the  old. 

A  good  deal  of  time  can  obviously  be  saved  if  the  giver 
of  the  feast  be  mindful  of  the  importance  of  that  desider- 
atum. The  releve,  for  instance,  should  undoubtedly  be 
carved  at  the  huffet,  and  each  portion  should  be  sent  round 
with  its  accompanying  vegetable  also  helped  at  the  side 
table.     I  have  seen  a  sliced  fillet  of  beef  handed  round  a 


10  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

table  of  eighteen  people,  with  vegetables  following  it,  and  a 
large  dish  containing  slices  of  a  saddle  of  mutton  garnished 
with  divers  vegetables,  also  carried  round.  The  waste  of 
time,  not  to  mention  the  positive  nuisance  of  such  a  method 
of  service,  need  scarcely  be  dilated  upon. 

At  a  large  party  I  would  always  hand  round  the  entremets 
de  legume  with  the  rut,  and  in  composing  the  dinner,  I 
would  select  the  entremets  so  as  to  harmonize  with  the  roast 
game  or  poultry — -petits  jpois  au  beurre  with  wild  duck 
or  teal,  epinards  a  la  creme  with  quails,  &c.,  &c. 

If  the  essential  need  of  brisk  service  be  kept  in  view, 
people  who  have  declared  themselves  in  favour  of  the  new 
form  of  menu,  and  are  determined  to  carry  it  out  correctly, 
ought  not  only  to  deserve  but  to  command  success ;  while 
those  who  have  already  achieved  a  reputation  with  the 
older  one,  will  do  well  not  to  bid  adieu  to  a  system  which,  if 
somewhat  less  artistic,  provides,  at  all  events,  a  very  reliable 
and  decidedly  enjoyable  way  of  entertaining  their  friends. 

But  in  either  case  you  cannot  make  your  dinner  too 
simple  in  detail,  and  the  fewer  servants  you  employ  to 
carry  it  out  the  better.  How  distressing  it  is  to  see  a  herd 
of  attendants,  mobbing  each  other  like  a  scared  flock  of 
sheep,  at  a  time  when  everything  should  be  as  orderly, 
and  as  quiet  as  possible.  To  ensure  calm  service,  pare 
down  the  number  of  your  dishes  to  the  fewest  possible, 
and  for  eight  guests  never  allow  more  than  four  servants, 
besides  youi^  butler,  to  attend  the  table. 

If  these  remarks  be  correct,  as  far  as  a  small  dinner  of 
eight  is  concerned,  how  much  more  do  they  apply  to  large 
banquets  ?  In  the  case  of  official  entertainments,  success 
is  too  frequently  marred  by  very  indifferent  service.  The 
indirect  cause  of  this  is,  as  a  rule,  an  over-crowded  menu. 

With  a  great  many  guests  it  is,  of  course,  necessary  to 
call   in   a   quantity   of  waiters  who  have  never  worked 


THE  MENU,  11 


together  before,  and  an  undisciplined  crowd  of  native 
servants  will  most  certainly  ruin  the  best  dinner  that  ever 
was  cooked,  unless  you  reduced  the  work  they  have  to  per- 
form to  the  best  of  youi'  ability. 

At  such  dinners  as  these  even  I  would  never  give  more 
than  two  really  good  entrees,  served  separately,  and  with- 
out any  dishes  of  vegetables  accompanying  them ;  then,  say,  a 
white  vegetable  with  potatoes  for  the  turkey,  and  French 
beans,  or  peas,  with  potatoes  for  the  saddle. 

The  menu  should  invariably  indicate  the  particular  vege- 
table you  intend  to  serve  with  the  releve,  thus  : — Selle  de 
mouton  aux  haricots  verts,  Fricandeau  au  chou-fleur,  Piece  de 
hoeuf  hraisee  au  celeri,  Quartier  d'agneau  aux  jpetits  pois,  §x. 
To  save  time,  a  portion  of  the  vegetable  named  should  be 
helped  with  the  meat,  potatoes  alone  being  handed  round. 
It  is  the  essence  of  ignorance,  and  of  bad  taste  to  send  a 
number  of  vegetables  round  with  the  joint.  Almost  as  bad. 
in  fact,  as  the  practice  of  serving  them  with  the  entrees. 

At  a  large  dinner,  you  sometimes  see  tuimips,  cabbages, 
cauliflowers,  French  beans,  and  potatoes  (occupying  five 
waiters)  going  round  together.  For  the  Anglo-Saxon 
delights  in  quantity,  and  his  soul  loveth  display  exceed- 
ingly. Masses  of  incongimous  diet  may  be  necessary  at  a 
yeomanry  festival,  or  after  an  Agi^icultural  Show  at  the 
county  town ;  but  educated  people  who  have  travelled, 
and  who  have  had  opportunities  of  forming  refined  notions 
of  human  nature  in  general,  and  of  food  in  particular, 
ought  surely  to  be  better  satisfied  with  a  little,  really  well 
considered,  than  with  abundance  inartistic  in  its  arrange- 
ment, and  indifferently  served. 


OZE^I^^IPTEPB    ZI- 


The  Cook  and  his  Management. 

FTER  some  years  of  observation  I  have  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  if  you  want  to  put  nice  little  din- 
ners upon  your  table,  you  must  not  only  be  pre- 
pared to  take  an  infinite  amount  of  trouble,  but  you  must 
make  a  friend  of  your  chef.  Unless  amicable  relations 
exist  between  the  cook  and  his  mistress  or  master,  the 
work  will  never  be  carried  out  satisfactorily.  There  will 
be  a  thousand  and  one  annoying  failures,  your  mind  will 
never  know  what  repose  means",  and,  in  the  end, — utterly 
wearied  with  the  daily  struggle  against  petty  larceny, 
carelessness,  ignorance,  stupidity,  and  an  apparently  way- 
ward desire  to  thwart  your  desires  to  the  utmost, — you 
will  resign  the  baton  to  your  butler,  and  submit  in  sheer 
desperation  to  that  style  of  dinner  unto  which  it  may 
please  him  to  call  you. 

I  do  not  allude  to  people  happy  in  the  possession  of  a 
butler  absolutely  capable  of  composing,  with  very  little 
aid,  a  fairly  good  menu,  and  able  to  direct  the  cook  in  the 
manipulation  thereof.  There  are,  I  know,  a  few  estimable 
men  of  that  kind  to  be  found — in  point  of  fact,  I  am  ac- 
quainted with  three  or  foui' — but  alas !  they  are  rare  to 
meet,  and  even  the  cleverest  of  them  requires  a  little  di- 
plomatic supervision,  or  he  will  di-ift  into  a  gi'oove  of  din- 
ners, and  tire  you  with  repetitions.     Are  not  the  accounts, 


THE  COOK  AND  HIS  MANAGEMENT.  13 

also,  of  the  erudite  maitre  cV hotel  full  often  prone  to  cause, 
— even  at  the  pretty  writing  table  of  the  cosy  boudoir, — 
great  searchings  of  heart  ?  In  other  words,  must  you  not 
pay  for  your  luxury,  and  even  murmur  not  in  the  presence 
of  the  artist  who  spares  you  so  much  trouble  ? 

Those  who  are  not  gifted  with  patience,  those  who  are 
not  physically  strong,  those  who  have  important  calls 
upon  their  time  away  from  home,  and,  of  coiu'se,  those 
who  do  not  feel  capable  of  directing  culinary  operations, 
cannot  do  better  than  entrust  the  management  of  their 
kitchens  to  alien  heads  ;  but  all  who  are  equal  to  the  task, 
should  take  the  helm  in  their  own  hands,  rememberino" 
that  ancient  canon, — "  if  you  want  a  thing  well  done,  do 
it  yourself," 

I  place  those  who  have  not  patience  first  on  the  list  of 
persons  whom  I  deem  incapable  of  managing  their  cooks. 
I  do  so  advisedly,  for  of  all  failings  inimical  to  the  success- 
ful direction  of  a  native  servant,  a  hasty  temper  is  the 
most  fatal.  The  moment  you  betray  irritation  and  hasti- 
ness in  your  manner  towards  Hamasamy,  he  ceases  to 
follow  you.  His  brain  becomes  busy  in  the  consultation 
of  his  personal  safety,  and  not  in  the  consideration  of  the 
plat  you  may  be  endeavouring  to  discuss  with  him.  In 
this  matter  I,  of  course,  address  my  readers  of  the  sterner 
sex.  Ladies,  I  know,  are  never  angry,  and  even  when  a 
little  put  out,  do  they  not  contrive  to  veil  their  feelings 
with  a  sweet  subtlety  which  men  can  envy,  yet  never  hope 
to  acquire  ? 

Once  upon  a  time  I  knew  very  intimately  the  Mess  Pre- 
sident of  a  Regiment  (not  yet  forgotten  I  fancy  at  Ban- 
galore) who  possessed  to  an  eminent  degree  the  qualities 
necessary  for  his  difficult  position.  He  was  an  acknow- 
ledged connoisseur  in  wines,  excelled  in  the  composition 
of  a  menu,  and  rejoiced  in  a  bountiful  development  of  the 

2 


14  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

bump  of  management.  Long  association,  liowever,  with 
one  of  tlie  best  Messmen  a  Regiment  ever  had  in  England 
had  spoilt  my  friend  for  the  up-hill  task  of  managing 
Kamasamy.  The  consequence  was  that  the  ordering  of  a 
dinner  with  him  was  generally  productive  of  nn  mauvais 
quart  cVheure.  I  remember,  one  special  day,  hearing  my 
friend's  voice  raised  to  its  highest  pitch ;  presently  the 
door  of  the  little  room  he  occuiDied  as  an  office  flew  open, 
and  out  rushed  the  cook,  followed  by  his  preceptor  ^-iolet 
in  the  face  with  wrath.  The  unhappy  menial,  in  a  state 
of  hopeless  mental  aberration,  had  taken  down  that  he 
was  to  hoil  the  pclte  de  foie  gras,  and  ice  the  asparagus  !* 
I  was  called  in  as  interpreter  and  peace-maker,  and  many 
a  moraing  after  that  did  I  convey  my  friend's  orders  to 
the  mess  cook.  I  was  obliged,  however,  to  demand  an 
empty  room,  for  even  during  my  interpretations  the  Pre- 
sident's patience  would  evaporate,  and  the  walls  would 
ring  with  language  that  was  fashionable  when  George  the 
Third  was  King. 

There  are  two  ways  of  imparting  the  details  of  a  menu 
to  your  native  cook : — one  through  the  medium  of  your 
butler,  the  other  by  conversation  with  the  man  himself. 
For  many  reasons  I  advocate  the  latter  plan.  Some  cooks 
do  not  care  for  the  butler's  interference,  and  in  many 
establishments,  the  cook  and  butler  do  not  pull.  Butlers, 
again,  are  prone  to  conceit,  and  often  pretend  to  under- 
stand what  you  want  done,  rather  than  confess  their 
ignorance.  You  may  perhaps  remember  the  same  failing 
in  your  munshi  who  never  admitted  himself  to  be  puzzled 
by  the  most  intricate  passage  in  English  that  you  could 
place  before  him. 

So  I  prefer  to  get  the  cook  alone,  and  talk  to  him  very 

*  I  do  not  mean  to  insinuate  by  this  that  iced  asparagus  is  not 
a  delicions  entremets;  in  the  case  in  point,  however,  the  mistake 
made  by  the  cook  is  obvious. — W. 


THE  COOK  AND  HIS  MANAGEMENT.  15 

gently  in  his  own  patois.  I  encourage  him  by  a  bland 
demeanour,  and  if  obliged  to  speak  retrospectively  of  a 
failure,  I  strive  to  do  so  with  a  smile.  You  will  soon  get 
i-ound  Ramasamy  when  he  finds  that  you  never  indulge  in 
"  very  bad  '  busing  :"  he  then  gains  confidence  in  you  and 
learns  rapidly.  Between  ourselves  too,  surely  an  artist 
who  can  actually  compose  a  ^^  petit  pctte  a  la  financiere,'' 
a  "  hramoushj  mix  huUres,"  or  a  "  supreme  de  volaille,'' 
deserves  some  consideration  at  our  hands.  The  patois  is 
easily  acquired,  and  you  will  soon  find  yourself  interpret- 
ing the  cherished  mysteries  of  Francatelli  or  Gouffe  in 
the  pigeon  English  of  Madras  with  marvellous  fluency. 
You  will  even  talk  of  "  putting  that  troople,"  "  mashing 
bones  all,"  "  minching,"  "  chimmering,"  &c.,  &c.,  with- 
out a  blush. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  in  our  Ramasamy  we  possess 
admirable  materials  out  of  which  to  form  a  good  cook. 
The  work  comes  to  him,  as  it  were,  of  its  own  accord. 
But  we  should  take  heed  lest  he  grow  up  at  random,  cling- 
ing affectionately  to  the  ancient  barbarisms  of  his  fore- 
fathers. "We  should  watch  for  his  besetting  sins,  and  root 
them  out  whenever  they  manifest  themselves. 

We  should,  moreover,  remember  that  a  dish  once  success- 
fully presented  will  not  necessarily  appear  so  again  unless 
the  artist  be  reminded  de  novo  of  the  secrets  of  its  compo- 
sition. 

Mint,  as  a  flavouring  agent,  save  with  green  peas,  in 
certain  wine  "  cups,"  and  in  bond  fide  mint  sauce,  is  one  of 
the  banes  of  the  cook-room  ;  its  use,  and  that  of  any  parsley 
except  the  curled  English  variety,  should  be  considered 
absolutely  penal.  The  very  smell  of  "  country"  parsley  is 
assuredly  sufficient  to  warn  the  unwary,  and  yet  many 
native  cooks  bring  it  home  daily.  The  weed  has  been 
called  "  parsley"  ever  since  they  can  remember,  and  they 


16  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

fail  to  appreciate  the  wide  difference  between  it,  and  the 
real  herb. 

All  native  cooks  dearly  love  the  spice  box,  and  they  all 
reverence  "  Worcester  Sauce,"  JX^ow,  I  consider  the  latter 
too  powerful  an  element  by  far  for  indiscriminate  use  in 
the  kitchen,  especially  so  in  India  where  our  cooks  are 
inclined  to  over-flavour  everything.  If  in  the  house  at  all, 
the  proper  place  for  this  sauce  is  the  cruet-stand  where 
it  can  be  seized  in  an  emergency  to  drown  mistakes,  and 
assist  us  in  swallowing  food  that  we  might  otherwise 
decline.  But  it  should  be  preserved  from  Ramasamy  with 
the  same  studious  care  as  a  bottle  of  chloroform  from  a 
lady  suffering  from  acute  neuralgia. 

Spice,  if  necessary,  should  be  doled  out  in  atoms,  the 
cook  ought  never  to  have  it  under  his  control. 

Does  every  housekeeper  appreciate  sufficiently  the 
invaluable  trimmings  of  meat,  skin,  and  bone,  which 
remain,  say,  after  a  number  of  tasty  choplets  have  been 
prepared  for  the  grid-iron  from  a  neck  of  mutton  ?  Do  all 
know  that  Ramasamy 's  domestic  curry  often  gains,  whilst 
we  lose,  the  nice  savouiy  sauce  which  should  have  accom- 
panied our  entree ;  but  then,  if  "  missus  din't  give  arder 
for  using  bits  all,"  can  Ramasamy,  a  child  of  this  woi-ld, 
be  blamed  ? 

In  the  various  receipts  which  I  hope  to  give,  you  will 
always  find  a  few  lines  reserved  for  the  treatment  of  the 
scraps,  and  as  each  bad  habit  of  the  cook-room  occurs  to 
me,  I  will  endeavour  to  expose  and  explain  it  to  the  best 
of  my  power. 


— ♦ — 
Certain  Kitchen  Requisites. 

LL OWING-  then,  that  our  native  cooks  are,  by  na- 
ture, adapted  to  their  calling,  and  that  by  judi- 
cious treatment  we  can  develop  the  talent  which 
they  possess,  one  of  the  next  things  for  consideration  is 
our  kitchen  equipment,  and  the  kind  of  utensils  which 
will  be  found  best  suited  for  Ramasamy's  use,  bearing  in 
mind  the  sort  of  dishes  we  shall  hereafter  call  upon  him 
to  prepare. 

In  introducing  novelties  of  European  construction  to  the 
Indian  cook-room  it  is,  a  sine  quel  non  to  proceed  with  cau- 
tion. Ramasamy  is  intensely  conservative,  and  a  sworn 
foe  to  innovations.  Perchance  there  are  amongst  my 
readers  some  who  can  look  back  with  a  sigh  to  sundry 
patented  culinary  nicknacks  brought  out  from  England, 
in  happy  anticipation  of  grand  cook-room  reforms,  to 
India,  which,  misunderstood  from  the  first,  were  either 
soon  cast  aside  as  worthless  from  barbarous  treatment,  or 
diverted  to  uses  which  would  drive  the  inventors  crazy  to 
think  of.  I  call  to  mind  having  observed  an  instance  of 
this  kind  when  staying  once  with  a  friend  on  the  Hills. 
The  water  for  my  bath  was  brought,  I  noticed,  in  the 
outer  vessel  of  a  "  Warren's  patent  cooking  pot."  "  Yes," 
said  my  host  sorrowfully  when  I  mentioned  the  occurrence, 
"  I  could  never  prevail  upon  my  fellows  to  use  the  thing  in 


18  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

tlie  Mtclien,  so  they  do  vrliat  tliey  like  with  it :  the  inner 
vessel  makes  a  capital  tom-tom  for  heating  a  sJiolah." 

Left  entirely  alone,  with  articles  of  his  own  selection 
around  him,  the  native  cook  is,  however,  a  singularly  in- 
genious creatui'e.  All  men  who  have  been  accustomed  to 
a  nomad  life  under  canvas — far  from  the  busy  hum  of 
cantonments — will,  I  think,  agree  with  me  in  this.  Given 
a  hold  in  the  ground,  and  a'  couple  of  stones  for  her  range, 
with  a  bundle  of  jungle  sticks,  a  chatty  or  two,  ferliaps  a 
degchee,  and  a  fan,  wherewithal  to  prepare  a  dinner,  can 
you  picture  to  yourself  the  face  of  Martha,  the  "  thorough 
good  cook"  of  an  English  household  ? 

An  amusing  episode  happened  some  few  years  ago  which 
struck  me  at  the  time  as  illustrative  to  a  degree  of  Rama- 
samy's  opinion  of  the  British  system  of  cookery.  I  hap- 
pened to  be  with  a  Regiment  at  Secunderabad  which,  for 
reasons  connected  with  the  antiquated  barracks  we  occu- 
pied, was  ordered  to  move  into  a  standing  camp.  Our 
Colonel,  an  exceedingly  young  and  fortunate  officer,  was 
a  rampant  soldier  of  the  new  school.  His  brain  was  ever 
busy  with  new  ideas  :  it  was  even  reported  that  he  slept 
with  "  Wolseley's  soldier's  pocket-book"  and  "  The  Rules 
for  Signalling  in  connection  with  Outpost  duty"  under  his 
pillow.  The  order  to  march  into  camp  delighted  him. 
After  issuing  his  orders  concerning  the  geometrical  lines 
in  which  he  wished  the  tents  to  be  pitched,  not  even  for- 
getting the  whitewashing  of  the  tents'  pegs,  he  turned  his 
attention  to  the  kitchens.  Here  was  an  opportunity  for 
practically  establishing  a  "  Wolseley's  field  kitchen."  Two 
officers  who  had  recently  passed  successfully  through  the 
Garrison  course  of  instruction  were  accordingly  sent  for, 
and,  as  a  personal  favour  to  the  Commanding  Officer, 
requested  to  go  out  to  the  camping  ground,  and  lay  out  a 
series  of  broad-arrow  kitchens  for  the  Regiment.     The 


CERTAIN  KITCHEN  REQUISITES.  19 

work  was  done,  and  we  marclied  into  camp  the  next  day. 
Whilst  the  men  were  busy  at  stables,  the  Colonel  rode  about 
inspecting  everything ;  presently  he  came  uj^on  the  neatly 
excavated  kitchens,  but,  to  his  astonishment,  found  them 
deserted  !  N'ot  a  cook  was  to  be  seen  !  Orderlies  flew  to 
find  out  where  on  earth  the  men's  breakfasts  were  being 
cooked,  and  in  a  few  minutes,  the  whole  corjps  de  cuisine  was 
discovered  squatting  at  work  more  suo  in  a  dry  nullah  hard 
by.  The  Colonel  furiously  demanded  why  the  proper  kitch- 
ens had  not  been  used,  and  "  all  this  abominable  mess 
prevented  ?"  Presently  a  cook  of  greater  daring  than  his 
colleagues  replied  "  What  sar  !  that  had  sense  kitchin,  sar, 
I  beg  your  pardon :  too  much  jireioood  tahing  :  see  sar  this 
prdper  kitchin  only.''  In  the  face  of  such  an  irresistible 
argument,  the  Colonel  (albeit  irritated  beyond  measure) 
was  constrained  to  abandon  his  cherished  project. 

When  presenting  Ramasamy,  therefore,  with  novel  uten- 
sils, let  us  guard  against  his  denouncing  them  as  "  bad 
sense."  We  must  patiently  show  him  how  to  use  them, 
proving,  if  we  possibly  can,  by  practical  illustration,  the 
satisfactory  results,  saving  of  time,  and  so  forth,  to  be 
gained  by  their  means.  Anything  complicated  should,  of 
course,  be  avoided. 

As  far  as  my  personal  experience  goes,  I  confess  that 
I  have  found  Ramasamy  by  no  means  diflicult  to  teach. 

All  native  cooks  take  readily  to  the  mincing  machine, 
and  I  find  that  my  chef  fully  appreciates  the  vegetable 
cutter,  root-knife,  dishing-up  fork,  gravy  strainer,  wire 
sieve,  hair  sieve,  colander,  mortar,  wire  frying  basket, 
"  Warren's  fish  kettle  and  vegetable  steamer,"  and  the 
larding  needle,  which  he  can  use  easily.  Larding  is  one 
of  the  branches  of  the  cook's  art  which  comes  naturally 
to  a  native  ;    as  a  rule  also  I  think  that  they  surpass 


20  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Europeans  in  boning  poultry,  an  operation  wliich  Martha 
rarely  attempts. 

I  cannot  too  strongly  recommend  tlie  adoption  of  that 
invaluable  utensil  a  "  bain-marie,'^  or  shallow  trough, 
which,  filled  with  hot-water  and  kept  over  a  moderate 
fire,  affords  a  hot  bath  in  which  the  various  little  sauce- 
pans containing  sauces,  etc.,  can  be  set,  and  so  kept  hot 
without  deterioration.  A  hain-marie  complete,  with  a  set 
of  saucepans  made  to  fit  it,  can  be  purchased  at  any  hard- 
ware shop,  or  you  can  have  one  made  to  order  to  fit  your 
saucepans  in  copper,  iron,  or  block  tin  ;  the  first  material 
will,  of  course,  outlast  the  other  two. 

The  digester  is  a  vessel  that  may  be  given  to  Ramasamy 
without  hesitation  ;  and  he  is  keenly  alive  to  the  value  of 
the  stew-pan.  In  the  matter  of  frying-pans  he  is  not 
hypercritical :  I  do  not  think  that  he  perceives  the  differ- 
ence between  a/ri7?tre-pan  and  an  07)ie?e^ie-pan.  He  dis- 
likes anything  heavy,  and  generally  asks  for  a  small  iron 
pan.  I  quite  agi'ee  with  a  friend  whose  experience  in 
culinary  matters  is  great,  who  advocates  a  deep-sided, 
heavy  iron  frying-vessel, — a  frying  Icettle,  in  short,  rather 
than  the  ordinary  frying-^^an  of  commerce,  steady  over  the 
fire  on  account  of  its  own  weight, — for  all  res!  friture  work, 
and,  of  course,  a  handy  vessel  for  saute  work  with  a  still 
lighter  one  for  omelettes.  The  large  pan  he  recommends 
can  be  made  in  any  Indian  bazar,  and,  when  used  in  con- 
junction with  the  frying  basket,  will  certainly  be  found 
most  valuable.  Like  many  English  cooks,  the  native  is 
apt  to  discard  the  gridiron  and  take  the  frying-pan  for 
many  things  which  ought  invariably  to  be  cooked  in  the 
former  vessel :  this  tendency  requires  watching,  for  in 
many  of  the  receipts  I  shall  give,  broiling  is  essential. 

I  hesitate  to  pronounce  any  opinion  upon  the  metal  best 
adapted  for  kitchen  utensils,  for,  upon  this  point  different 


CERTAIN  KITCHEN  REQUISITES. 


21 


people  think  differently.  Copper  is,  we  all  know,  uni- 
versally recommended  on  account  of  its  durability.  You 
see  nothing  else  in  the  kitchens  of  restaurants,  clubs,  &c., 
and  in  all  establishments  where  the  demands  upon  the  chef 
are  frequent  and  elaborate.  If  treated  with  ordinary 
care,  no  evil  should  result  from  its  use.  Enamelled  iron- 
ware looks  nice  when  new,  but  the  slightest  carelessness 
destroys  the  enamel,  and  when  once  cracked,  it  may  be 
considered  done  for.  Plain  wrought-iron  vessels,  tinned, 
are  serviceable,  and  block  tin  for  certain  utensils  is  not  to 
be  despised.  The  lately  introduced  grey  enamel  ware 
is  likewise  serviceable,  and  at  the  same  time  light.  In  my 
own  kitchen,  I  have  a  mixed  collection  which  answei^  its 
purpose  well  enough. 

With  regard  to  the  equipment  necessary  for  an  ordinary 
establishment,  I  can  safely  recommend  : — 


A  Warren's  cooking  pot.  1 

4  Stew-pans  of  sizes.  1 

6  Sauce-pans  assorted.  1 

1  Large     sauce-pan    with 

steamer.  1 

1  Iron  3-gallon  digester.  2 

1  Braising-pan.  1 

1  Friture-^Qji     (or  frying- 

kettle). 
1  Saute-^din, 

In  addition  to  this, — the  heavy  portion  of  the  equip- 
ment,— the  cook  should  have  : — 


Omelette-'pB.Ji. 

Fluted  gridiron. 

Tin  fish  kettle  and  drain- 
er. 

Ordinary  iron-kettle. 

Spits  of  sizes. 

Bain-marie,  capable  of 
holding  four  or  five 
small  sauce-pans. 


3  Iron  spoons  of  sizes. 

3  Wooden  spoons. 

1  Basting  ladle. 

1  Fish  slice. 

1  Set  of  skewers. 

1  Set  of  larding  needles. 


1  Meat  saw. 

1  Chopper. 

2  Plain  pudding  moulds. 

1  Cake  mould. 

2  Plain  border  moulds. 
1  Flour  dredger. 


9,0! 


CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


1  Sugar  dredger. 

1 

Wire  frying  basket. 

1  Pepper  box. 

3 

Jelly  moulds  of  sizes. 

1  Bread  grater. 

2 

Border    do.     of     do. 

1  Set  of  vegetable  cutters. 

1 

Paste  j  agger. 

1  Dishing-up  fork. 

1 

Set  of  pastry  cutters. 

2  Common  forks. 

1 

Dozen  patty  pans. 

5  Cook's  knives  in  sizes. 

\ 

A  dozen  mince  pie  pans. 

1  Root  knife. 

i 

Baking  sheet. 

1  Mincing  knife. 

2 

Baking  tins. 

1   Toasting  fork. 

2 

Bread  or  cake  tins. 

1  Block  tin  colander. 

2 

Soujjie  tins  of  sizes. 

2  Tin  gravy  strainers. 

1 

Set   of  freezing  utensils 

2  Pointed  gravy  do. 

complete. 

1  Wire  sieve. 

1 

Coffee  mill. 

12  Hair  sieves  of  sizes. 

One  mincing  machine,  and  a  tin  box  with  divisions 
for  a  small  supply  of  pepper-corns,  salt,  ground  pepper, 
sugar,  &c. 

A  wooden  slab,  (or  marble  if  you  can  get  one)  for  pastry, 
with  rolling  pin  is  necessary,  and  also  a  pestle  and  mortar. 
A  stone  or  iron  one  is  best  for  India ;  I  have  lost  two 
Wedgwood  mortars — broken  through  careless  use  on  a 
stone-paved  floor. 

I  strongly  recommend  that  every  cook  should  have  at 
least  four  common  earthenware  bowls,  two  of  them  with 
lips,  for  setting  stock,  gravies,  &c.,  &c.,  and  it  will  be 
found  as  well  to  give  him  a  few  cheap  crockery  sundries 
for  exclusive  use  in  his  kitchen.  If  not,  portions  of  your 
breakfast  and  dinner  sets  will  find  their  way  to  the  cook- 
room,  and  the  list  of  killed,  wounded,  and  missing  will 
become  alarming.  I  think  the  following  sufficient  for  a 
small  kitchen  :  two  jugs,  two  cups  and  saucers,  a  wine-glass 
for  measurement,  six  plates,  three  soup  plates,  two  large 
and  two  small  dishes,  two  small  basins,  and  three  wire 


CERTAIN  KITCHEN  REQUISITES,  23 

covers  to  protect  meat,  &c.,  from  flies  :  these  articles  may 
obviously  be  of  the  commonest  ware  or  of  enamelled  iron. 

A  cupboard  fitted  with  a  lock  and  key  should  be  given 
to  the  cook  for  the  safe  custody  of  the  many  small  articles 
I  have  enumerated,  and  a  set  of  shelves  for  his  utensils. 
The  cook-room  table  should  be  roomy  and  strong,  and  to 
ensure  its  cleanliness,  it  should  be  continually  scalded 
down  with  boiling  water  and  soda,  and  well  rubbed  over 
with  sand  paper. 

Lastly,  no  kitchen  should  be  without  a  clock.  A  cook 
of  ordinary  intelligence  can,  without  difficulty,  be  taught 
to  mark  the  progTess  of  the  hands,  and  work  by  time, 
rather  than  by  guess-work. 

It  is  hardly  necessary,  I  hope,  for  me  to  point  out  the 
intense  importance  of  cleanliness  in  the  kitchen,  and  in  all 
utensils  connected  therewith.  If  you  cannot  go  to  the 
kitchen  yourself,  it  is  essential  that  you  should  hold  weekly 
inspections  of  all  your  cooking  utensils,  which  should  be 
spread  out  on  a  mat  in  the  verandah  for  that  purpose. 
Give  out  ivashing  soda,  for  you  cannot  keep  things  clean 
without  it ;  and  be  very  particular  about  the  cloths  that 
are  used  by  the  cook.  There  is  a  horrible  taste  which 
sometimes  clings  to  soups,  sauces,  etc.,  which  a  friend  of 
mine  specifies  as  "  dirty  cloth  taste."  This  is  eloquent  of 
neglect,  and  dirty  habits  in  the  kitchen.  Sieves  will  do 
for  many  things,  but  there  are  some  compositions  which 
must  be  strained  through  cloths,  we  cannot,  therefore,  be 
too  attentive  with  reference  to  that  part  of  our  kitchen 
equipment. 

For  a  few  remarks  concerning  our  kitchens  in  India, 
please  turn  to  the  end  of  the  book. 


CX3:^^r^TE^     T^J-. 


In  the  Sfore-room. 


^ 

^ 


N  visiting:  the  vast  collections  of  tinned  provisions, 
sauces,  &c.,  at  some  of  the  large  establishments  at 
the  Presidency,  I  have  often  wondered  liow  a  lady, 
commencing  honse-kecping,  is  gnided  in  selecting  the 
things  she  requires  for  her  store-room.  A  majority,  no 
doubt,  of  the  fair  chatelaines  of  Madras,  do  their  shopping 
at  their  boudoir  writing  tables,  filling  up  lists  at  the  dic- 
tation of  the  butler  at  their  elbow  ;  for  few,  I  take  it, — • 
very  few  care  to  go  to  the  fountain  head  for  what  they 
want. 

Now,  a  butler's  ideas  about  stores  are,  on  the  whole,  very 
mixed  :  he  worships  "  Europe  articles"  and  delights  in 
filling  the  shelves  of  the  store-room  with  rows  of  tins  ;  of 
which  some  may  perhaps  be  useful,  but  many  need  never 
be  bought  at  all  at  Madras,  and  so  remain  for  months  un- 
touched, lumbering  the  shelves  of  the  cupboard.  It  has 
struck  me,  therefore,  that  having  satisfied  oui'selves  con- 
cerning the  equipment  of  the  kitchen,  a  few  words  regard- 
ing the  choosing  of  stores  may  be  acceptable. 

I  have  long  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  fewer  acces- 
sories you  use  in  the  way  of  hermetically  sealed  provisions 
in  the  cooking  of  a  dinner  the  better.  In  Madras  we  have 
all  the  materials  for  soup-making  at  hand,  we  have  ex- 
cellent fish,  very  fail*  flesh  and  fowl,  good  wild  fowl  and 


IN  THE  STORE.ROOM. 


game  when  in  season,  and  vegetables  from  Bangalore  and 
the  Neilgherries  in  addition  to  the  standard  produce  of 
the  country.  If,  therefore,  we  concentrate  our  attention 
sufficiently  upon  what  we  can  get  from  market,  our 
demand  on  tinned  food  should  be  very  small  indeed. 

Take  now,  for  instance,  a  tin  of  the  ordinary  preserved 
mushrooms, — those  made  you  know  of  white  leather, — 
what  is  the  use  of  them,  what  do  they  taste  of  ?  Yet 
people  giving  a  dinner  party  frequently  garnish  one  entree 
at  least  with  them,  and  the  Madras  butler  would  be 
horrified  if  his  mistress  were  to  refuse  him  that  pleasure. 
The  stewed  "  black  Leicestershire"  are  the  best  preserved 
mushrooms  to  be  had,  but  even  between  them  and  the 
fresh  fujigus,  there  is  a  great  gulf  fixed. 

A  few  years  ago  I  met  an  officer  of  the  Artillery,  who, 
after  having  served  in  various  parts  of  the  world,  had  just 
been  appointed  to  a  command  in  this  Presidency.  Con- 
versation happened  to  turn  upon  cookery,  and  the  Colonel 
soon  proved  himself  to  be  a  man  who  had  for  years  studied 
the  science  con  amore.  He  had  had  little  or  no  experience 
of  Indian  life,  and  he  expressed  himself  agi^eeably  sur- 
prised, rather  than  otherwise,  at  the  style  of  living  to 
which  he  had  been  introduced.  "  But,"  he  said,  "  preserve 
me  from  your  dinners  of  ceremony."  He  had  arrived, 
he  told  me,  quite  unexpectedly  a  few  evenings  before,  and 
had  been  at  once  invited  to  the  Mess  ;  the  dinner, — just 
the  ordinary  daily  one, — was,  he  thought,  excellent,  and 
so  it  was  the  next  day,  and  the  day  following,  but  on  the 
fourth  day  he  was  formally  invited  to  dine  as  a  Mess 
guest,  and  that  was  a  very  different  affair.  Considerable 
expense  had  been  incurred,  he  observed,  on  this  occasion 
in  tinned  provisions,  but  with  the  worst  possible  result. 
There  was  a  dish  of  preserved  salmon  hot,  and  sodden  ;  the 
entrees  were  spoilt  by  the  introduction  of  terrible  sausages, 

3 


26  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

and  muslirooms  ;  and  the  tinned  vegetables  were  mined 
by  being  -wrongly  treated  by  the  cook.  "  There  are  few 
men,"  the  Colonel  went  on,  "  who  have  had  more  to  do 
with  preserved  provisions  than  I  have,  but  until  I  attended 
this  big  Indian  dinner,  I  never  saw  such  things  actually 
regarded  as  delicacies,  and  put  upon  the  table  to  the  exclu- 
sion of  the  good  fresh  food  procurable  in  the  market." 
This  is  the  proper  way  of  looking  at  this  question.  There 
will  be  times  and  places,  when  and  where  you  will  be 
obliged  to  fall  back  upon  Messrs.  Crosse  and  Blackwell,  and 
be  thankful.  Until  those  evil  days  come  upon  you,  how- 
ever, do  not  anticipate  your  penance,  but  strive  to  make 
the  food  you  can  easily  procui-e,  palatable  and  good  by 
scientific  treatment. 

I  look  upon  tinned  provisions  in  the  hands  of  Rama- 
samy  as  the  cloaks  of  carelessness,  and  slovenly  cooking. 
He  thinks  that  the  *  tin'  will  cover  a  multitude  of  sins,  so 
takes  comparatively  little  pains  with  the  dish  that  it 
accompanies. 

There  are  many  ladies  who,  when  giving  out  stores  for 
a  dinner  party,  have  no  hesitation  in  issuing  '  tins'  to  the 
value  of  many  rupees,  but  if  asked  for  extra  cream,  butter, 
eggs,  and  gravy-meat, — the  true  essentials  of  cookery, — 
begin  to  consider  themselves  imposed  upon.  The  poverty 
of  our  cookery  in  India  results  almost  wholly  from  our 
habit  of  ignoring  these  things,  the  very  backbone,  as  it 
were,  of  the  cook's  art.  If  an  English  cook,  surrounded 
with  the  best  market  supplies  in  the  world,  be  helpless 
without  her  stock,  her  kitchen  butter,  and  her  cream  and 
eggs,  how  much  more  should  Ramasamy  be  pitied  if  he 
be  refused  those  necessaries,  for  his  materials  stand  in 
far  greater  need  of  assistance. 

In  the  matter  of  firewood  and  charcoal  too,  I  am  aware 
that  there  is  often  a  difierence  of  opinion  between  the 


IN  THE  STORE-ROOM.  27 

cook  and  his  mistress,  and  I  am  inclined  to  think  that 
Ramasamy  is  generally  in  the  wi'ong.  Still,  we  should  be 
careful  lest  we  limit  his  supply  of  fuel  too  closely — espe- 
cially on  a  dinner  party  day.  I  once  was  a  guest  at  a 
house  where  the  dinner  was  served  perfectly  as  far  as  the 
joint,  when  a  sudden  collapse  took  place ;  the  game  and 
dressed  vegetable  were  stone-cold.  The  excuse  the  next 
day  was,  "  charcoal  all  done  finish,  and  Missis  only  got 
godown  key  in  the  pocket." 

Unless  you  have  tried  to  find  out  practically  what  can 
be  done  with  the  fish,  flesh,  fowl,  and  vegetables  of  this 
country,  by  studious  cookery,  you  will  scarcely  believe  the 
extent  of  your  power,  and  how  independent  you  really  are 
of  preserved  provisions.  It  is  absolutely  annoying  to  read 
the  nonsense  people  write  about  our  style  of  living  in 
India.  I  remember  an  article  headed  "  Curry  and  Rice" 
which  once  appeared  in  Vanity  Fair.  The  writer  wrecked 
on  the  rock  upon  which  many  drift,  who,  with  a  little 
knowledge  of  the  peculiarities  of  some  particular  part  of 
the  country,  sit  down  with  impudent  confidence  to  treat  of 
India  generally,  quite  forgetting  that  the  Peninsula  is  a 
large  one,  and  that  the  manners  and  customs  which  obtain 
in  one  district,  may  never  have  been  heard  of  in  other 
parts  of  the  Empire.  The  article  was  not  applicable  to 
any  part  of  the  Madras  Presidency,  and  judging  from  the 
^T:'iter's  suggestions  as  to  the  cookery  of  a  tin  of  beef  with 
yams,  and  worse  still,  the  fabrication  of  soup  from  the 
fowl  hones  you  piclced  and  left  at  luncTieon,  I  should  say 
that  Vanity  had  picked  up  not  only  an  ignoramus,  but  an 
uncleanly  ignoramus,  as  a  contributor.  Our  friends  at 
Home  were  told  by  this  audacious  man  that  no  dinner  was 
complete  in  India  without  a  "  bui^ning  curry,"  and  that 
none  was  successful  "  without  Europe  tins."  I  think  that, 
as  we  go  on,  I  shall  be  able  to  prove  that  at  Madras,  at 
ail  events,  we  can  do  pretty  well  without  either. 


28  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Altliougli  I  am  strongly  against  the  use  of  tinned  things 
to  the  extent  that  many  allow,  there  are  nevertheless 
many  articles  Trhich  you  must  have  in  the  store-room  : — 
pickles,  sauces,  jams,  bacon,  cheese,  maccaroni,  vermicelli, 
vinegars,  flavouring  essences,  the  invaluable  truffle,  tart 
fruits,  biscuits,  isinglass,  arrowroot,  oatmeal,  pearl  barley, 
cornflour,  olives,  capers,  dined  herbs,  and  so  on.  Grated 
Parmesan  cheese  (sold  in  bottles  by  Crosse  and  Blackwell) 
should  never  be  forgotten,  the  salad  oil  should  be  the  best 
procurable,  and  no  store-room  should  be  without  tarragon 
vinegar,  ancho\y  vinegar,  French  vinegar,  and  white  wine 
vinegar.  Amongst  sauces  I  consider  "  Harvey"  the  best 
for  general  use  ;  Sutton's  "  Empress  of  India,"  is  a  strong 
sauce  with  a  real  flavour  of  mushrooms  ;  Moir's  sauces  and 
"  Reading  sauce"  are  very  trustworthy,  and  there  are 
otliei*s  which,  no  doubt,  commend  themselves  to  different 
palates,  but  I  denounce  "  Worcester  sauce"  and  "  Tapp's 
sauce"  as  agents  far  too  powerful  to  be  trusted  to  the  hands 
of  the  native  cook.  Sutton's  essence  of  anchovies  is  said 
to  possess  the  charm  of  not  clotting,  or  forming  a  stoppage 
in  the  neck  of  the  bottle.  I  have  a  deep  respect  for  both 
walnut  and  mushroom  ketchup,  soy,  and  tomato  conserve. 
Then  as  special  trifles,  we  must  not  forget  caviare,  olives 
farcies  J  and  anchovies  in  oil. 

The  cook  should  be  carefully  shown  the  use  of  flavour- 
ing essences,  and  also  that  of  dried  herbs.  He  ought 
also  to  be  taught  never  to  run  out  of  bread  crumbs.  Stale 
fine  crumbs  should  be  made  every  now  and  then,  and  kept 
corked  down  in  bottles  for  use  when  required.  The  very 
unsightly  appearance  presented  by  fish,  cutlets,  etc., 
crumbed  with  fresh  spongy  crumbs  should  warn  us,  for 
stale  bread  is  never  to  be  had  when  we  suddenly  want  it. 
Red  currant  jelly  is  very  useful  ;  the  store-room  should 
never  be  "  out"  of  it.  I  shall  treat  of  tinned  vegetables 
hereafter  in  their  proper  place.     Macedoines,  fonds  d^arti- 


IN  THE  STORE-ROOM.  29 

chaitf,  petits  pois,  haricots  verts  and  asperges  are,  of  course, 
excellent,  and  the  dried  Julienne  will  be  found  admirable 
for  sonps.  Preserved  fisli  is  not  required  at  Madras,  and 
we  can  get  on  without  tinned  meats,  soups,  and  potted 
luxuries,  for  we  can  make  better  things  at  home. 

In  sweet  things,  however,  we  are  not  so  independent, 
and  jams,  jellies,  tart-fruits,  dried  and  candied  peel, 
currants,  raisins,  ginger,  &c.,  &c.,  must  all  have  room  in 
the  house-keeper's  cupboard. 

Of  the  invaluable  qualities  to  the  Anglo-Indian  of  good 
tinned  butter,  I  shall  speak  on  a  future  occasion. 

In  a  chapter  on  stores  it  is  impossible  to  pass  over, 
without  a  few  words  of  commendation,  the  excellent  pre- 
served fish,  vegetables,  and  fruits,  which  have,  of  late,  been 
imported  from  America,  Besides  being  capital  in  quality 
these  "  canned"  delicacies  are  decidedly  cheap.  The  old 
English  firms  have  now  to  compete  with  dangerous  rivals. 
Let  them  look  to  their  laurels. 

Messrs.  Brand  &  Co.'s  preparations  for  invalids,  potted 
meats,  soups,  and  strong  essences  of  beef,  chicken,  &c.,  are 
specialites  in  their  way  vastly  superior  to  anything  for- 
merly in  the  market  of  a  like  description.  Messrs.  Moir 
and  Son  have  however  taken  up  the  subject  recently  with 
great  success. 


— ♦ 

On  Stock,  and  clear  Soups. 

"X'lrtT'ITH  a  keen  appreciation  of  the  importance  of  the 
jlO^  subject,  and  of  the  difficulties  with  which  it  is 
surrounded,  I  now  proceed  to  place  before  mj 
readers  a  little  collection  of  hints  and  wrinkles  about 
soup-making  which  I  have  gathered  from  time  to  time 
from  a  variety  of  sources.  Some,  by  practical  experience, 
gained  by  hond  fide  work  in  the  kitchen,  some  given  to 
me  by  friends,  and  some  picked  out  of  different  works  on 
the  culinary  art.  In  my  extracts  from  books,  I  shall 
endeavoui'  to  record,  as  much  as  possible,  such  advice 
only  as  I  have  tested  myself,  and  I  shall  try  to  make  my 
gleanings  simple  and  concise. 

To  begin  then ;  there  are,  we  know,  three  distinct 
classes  of  soups  : — the  clear,  the  thick,  and  the  'puree.  We 
recognise  clear  soups  in  the  menu  under  different  names. 
For  instance,  we  meet  consomme  cle  volaille,  and  potage  a  la 
printaniere,  but  whereas  the  word  consomme  is  invariably 
applied  to  clear  soups,  we  find  potage  frequently  used  for 
thick  also,  to  wit : — potage  a  la  Reine,  potage  a  la  bonne 
femme,  §t.  Let  us  distinguish  between  thick  soups  and 
purees  in  this  way  : — The  former  owe  their  consistency  to 
the  addition  of  some  artificial  thickening,  such  as  flour, 
egg  yolks,  &c.,  the  latter,  on  the  other  hand,  derive  their 
thick  characteristic  from  the  ingredients  that  compose 
them  being  rubbed  through  a  tamis,  or  through  a  wire   \ 


ON  STOCK,  AND  CLEAR  SOUPS.  31 

sieve,  and,  communicated  to  the  stock  in  the  form  of  a 
thick  pulp,  as  in  the  case  of  puree  dl  artichautSy  'puree  de 
legumes,  puree  de  gihier,  §"0.  A  soup  partaking  of  the 
character  of  a  thinnish  puree  helped  up  by  artificial  aid  in 
the  way  of  thickening,  is  called  by  some  writers  a  potage 
a  la  puree.  The  hisgue  again  is  a  puree,  strictly  speaking, 
of  Cray  fish  (mix  ecrevisses)  or  of  lobster  (de  liomard),  but 
it  can  be  made  successfully  with  crab,  prawns,  and 
shrimps  ;  indeed  a  nice  hisgue  can  be  made  with  any  fish. — 
So  much  for  names. 

Let  us  now  turn  our  attention  to  beef  consomme  for  we 
may  regard  it  as  the  foundation  upon  which  nearly  every 
soup  is  based. 

"  Stock,"  says  a  capital  writer  on  cookery,  "  is  to  a  cook 
what  the  medium  or  the  water  is  to  the  painter  in  oils  or 
in  water  colours.  It  may  be  defined,  generally  speaking, 
as  a  solution  in  water  of  the  nutritive,  and  sapid  elements 
contained  in  meat  and  bones  :  salt  and  spices  added  to  it  to 
make  it  savoury,  and  if  to  this  you  add  the  flavour  of 
various  vegetables,  you  have  soup." 

"We  must  remember,  however,  to  start  with,  that  soup  in 
India  must  be  made  in  one  day.  We  cannot  fall  back  upon 
the  never-empty  stock  pot  of  the  English  kitchen  :  our's 
must  be  made  daily,  and,  to  guard  against  waste,  only  in 
sufficient  quantity  for  the  day's  consumption.  In  saying 
this  I  have,  of  course,  mainly  before  me  the  climate  of 
Madras,  and  of  the  plains  of  Southern  India.  At  the  Hill 
stations  and  during  the  cold  weather  in  the  northern  part 
of  the  country,  the  method  obtaining  in  British  households 
may,  no  doubt,  with  care,  and  slight  modification,  be  fol- 
lowed. 

Our  soup,  then,  being  actually  an  ephemeral  production, 
how  should  we  proceed  ?  "  For  the  type  of  all  stock- 
making,"  says  the  Gr.  C.  "  there  can  be  no  better  recipe 
taken  then  that  of  the  French  pot-au-feu,''  let  us  therefore 


32  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

consider  attentively  the  following  recipe  for  that  most 
valuable  of  culinary  operations. 

Put  a  piece  of  soup-meat, — say  of  four  pounds  weight,  in 
the  proportion  of  three  pounds  of  flesh  to  one  of  bone, — 
(the  recipe  can,  of  course,  be  followed  by  adding  or  reducing 
as  you  may  require  but  preserving  like  proportion)  tightly 
bound  with  a  string,  with  two  ounces  of  salt  and  the  bones 
separately  broken  up,  into  a  stock  pot  filled  with  water,  so 
as  to  completely  cover  the  meat.  Put  the  pot  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  and  let  it  become  gradually  heated.  As  this 
takes  place,  a  scum  will  form  upon  the  surface  which  must 
be  carefully  removed  as  it  rises.  When  nearly  boiling,  a 
coffee  cupful  of  cold  water  should  be  thrown  into  the  pot 
to  accelerate  the  rising  of  the  scum.  The  clearness  of  the 
soup  will  depend  remember,  upon  all  the  scum  being 
taken  off,  and  upon  the  water  being  kept  from  boiling 
point  until  it  is  all  removed.  This  having  been  done  ; 
put  into  the  saucepan  the  following  vegetables  which 
should  have  been  previously  carefully  cleaned  and  cut  up, 
viz.  : — a  couple  of  large  white  onions,  a  clove  of  garlic,  two 
large  or  three  small  carrots,  two  or  three  turnips,  six  leeks, 
one  head  of  celery,  a  bunch  of  cm'ly  parsley,  and  two  cloves 
in  the  onion.  Then  put  in,  tied  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin, 
some  thyme,  marjoram,  and  a  handful  of  whole  pepper, 
— a  tea-spoonful  each  of  dried  thyme  and  marjoram  will 
be  quite  enough.  It  will  be  found  that  by  adding  the 
vegetables,  the  boiling  of  the  broth  will  be  thrown  back  ; 
as  soon  however  as  the  bubbling  recommences,  watch  the 
vegetables  carefully,  and  remove  them  when  they  are  done. 
If  you  leave  them  in  the  stock  pot  after  they  have  been 
cooked,  they  will  spoil  the  soup.  Remove  the  muslin  bag 
also.  You  can  next  put  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  a 
table-spoonful  of  Harvey  sauce,  and  two  of  mushroom 
ketchup  ;  when  the  pot-au-fen  is,  so  to  speak,  thus  com- 
pleted, it  must  be  left  to  simmer  slowly  from  three  to  four 


ON  STOCK,  AND  CLEAR  SOUPS.  33 

honrs.  The  sonp  should  now  be  strained  into  a  basin  and 
left  to  get  cool,  so  that  any  remaining  fat  may  be  effect- 
ually skimmed  off.  The  clear  liquor  is  then  fit  to  be  warm- 
ed and  served  with  maccaroni,  bread  sippets,  or  vegetables, 
&c.,  according  to  the  kind  of  soup  you  wish  to  have. 

Observe  that  in  order  to  carry  out  this  recipe,  an  open, 
roomy  vessel  is  necessary;  a  closed  pot  like  a  digester 
must  not  be  used. 

This  is,  to  my  mind,  the  simplest  recipe  you  can  follow 
to  achieve  a  bright  clear  consomme.  It  is,  of  course,  im- 
perative that  you  proceed  exactly  as  described.  First, 
the  meat  covered  with  cold  water,  and  brought  very  slow- 
ly to  the  boil,  being  very  carefully  skimmed  the  while. 
Next,  when  the  skimming  is  completed,  the  vegetables, — 
to  be  removed  when  done,  the  little  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs, 
the  sugar,  and  a  small  allowance  of  sauce  and  ketchup. 
Now,  a  period  of  three  hours  to  simmer,  followed  by 
straining.  The  liquor  you  have  after  this  is  actually  beef 
consomme  or  strong  broth  quite  clear  and  pale. 

Removing  the  fat  whilst  the  simmering  is  going  on  is 
obviously  a  very  important  stage  which  cannot  be  too 
patiently  manipulated.  The  fat  so  obtained  is  invaluable 
for  frying  purposes.  It  should  be  melted  after  it  has 
settled,  and  strained  through  a  piece  of  muslin. 

It  may  so  happen  that,  owing  to  insufficient  skimming 
in  the  early  stage  of  the  proceedings,  you  find  to  your 
sori'ow  that  the  consomme  is  not  as  clear  as  you  could  wish. 
You  must  therefore  clarify  it.  There  are  two  good  ways  of 
doing  this.  The  simpler,  and  I  believe,  the  more  effica- 
cious of  the  two  is  to  put  into  the  cool  broth  some  very 
small  fragments  of  raw  beef,  free  from  fat,  put  it  on  the 
fire  again  till  it  boils,  let  it  settle,  and  then  strain.  Per- 
haps, however,  you  may  not  have  saved  a  bit  of  meat  for 
this  contingency,  so  you  must  attain  your  object  with  the 


34  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

white  of  an  egg^  thus  : — Break  an  egg,  and  throw  the 
white  and  the  shell  together  into  a  slop  basin, — be  care- 
ful not  to  let  an  atom  of  the  yolk  go  in, — beat  the  white 
and  shell  np  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  it,  flake  by  flake, 
very  completely  with  the  cool  sonp.  Put  the  soup  into  a 
saucepan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire,  stirring  well  till  it  boils. 
Take  it  off  immediately,  cover  it  close,  let  it  stand  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  strain  it  off  through  the 
tamis,  or  hair  sieve. 

Let  me  here  point  out  the  cause  of  another  misadven- 
ture in  the  satisfactory  appearance  of  a  clear  soup, — one 
that  often  occurs  in  consomme  with  maccaroni,  verm.icelli, 
and  pearl-barley.  You  have  got  your  stock  as  bright  and 
clear  as  sherry,  but  after  adding  the  ingredients  just  men- 
tioned "  a  change  comes  over  the  spirit  of  your  dream," — 
the  soup  turns  cloudy.  The  reason  is  this  :  preserved  fari- 
naceous food  of  the  maccaroni  class  often  contains  dirt, 
— dirt  that  you  do  not  perceive,  and  which  can  only  be 
removed  by  parboiling.  Accordingly,  whenever  you  in- 
tend to  add  it  to  consomme,  you  should  hoil  it  independently 
in  plain  water  in  order  that  the  outside  dirty  part  may  be 
washed  off  by  becoming  dissolved.  Plain  washing  in 
water  is  not  enough  ;  besides,  loashing  maccaroni  is  the 
act  of  an  ignoramus. 

There  is  another  feature  in  a  clear  soup  which  I  have 
reserved  for  special  attention,  and  that  is  the  colouring. 
Now,  an  idea  prevails  amongst  numbers  of  English  people 
that  a  soup  to  be  good  and  strong  must  be  dark-coloured. 
Old-fashioned  people  speak  of  your  modern  consomme  as  a 
weak,  washy  composition  only  fit  for  foreigners.  But  if 
you  take  the  very  self-same  liquor  and  brown  it  with  a 
lot  of  burnt  onion,  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter, 
they  are  perfectly  satisfied.  Did  you  ever  make  jug- 
ged beef  tea  for  a  sick  friend,  the  strongest  possible 
essence  of  raw  lean  beef  ?     Was  not  the  liquor  so  obtained 


ON  STOCK,  AND  CLEAR  SOUPS.  35 

as  clear  as  sherry,  pale-coloured,  with  a  quantity  of 
granulated  particles  of  the  beef  floating  in  it  ?  Well, 
when  strained  that  would  have  been  consomme  without 
the  flavouring  produced  from  vegetables  and  the  bouquet 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  surely  s^'DJ^gf  enough  for  the  veriest 
John  Bull  that  ever  talked  nonsense  about  cookery. 

Now,  if  you  desire  to  impart  a  golden  brown  tint  to  your 
clear  soup,  or  a  darker  tint,  (which  the  gods  forfend) 
never  use  hurnt  onion  upon  any  account.  Tou  must  achieve 
your  object  by  a  browning  (caramel)  made  thus  : — put 
a  quarter  pound  of  white  sugar  into  a  copper  or  enamelled 
pan  ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  melted ;  then 
after  simmering  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  it  has  reach- 
ed the  brown  tint  you  want,  add  a  pint  of  water  to  it,  boil, 
and  skim  it,  let  it  get  cold,  and  then  bottle  and  cork  it  down 
for  use.  A  little  of  this  should  be  put  into  the  soup  prior 
to  the  three  hours'  simmering  stage,  if  a  golden  brown  be 
the  tint  desired. 

If  you  can  obtain  a  small  bottle  of  French-made  sue 
colorant,  you  need  not  trouble  your  head  about  the  colour- 
ing, for  a  little  of  that  exquisite  preparation  will  colour, 
and  also  slightly  improve  the  flavour  of  your  consomme. 
Messrs.  Moir  and  Son  now  provide  this  useful  ingredient. 

Grated  Parmesan  or  Gruyere  cheese  should  always  be 
handed  round  with  clear  soups,  for  it  improves  many  of 
them.  Chilli- vinegar  in  minute  particles  is  considered  by 
some  a  great  improvement.  I  strongly  advise  any  of  my 
readers  who  write  to  England  for  their  stores,  not  to 
forget  to  ask  for  a  little  bottle  of  American  "  Tabasco,''  or 
quintessence  of  cayenne,  sold  by  Messrs.  Jackson  and  Co., 
Piccadilly,  priced  half  a  crown :  each  bottle  is  furnished 
with  a  patent  stopper  to  enable  you  to  shake  out  a  drop  at 
a  time ;  two  drops  in  each  basin  of  soup  is  generally  found 
enough,  and  the  flavour  is  very  good,  quite  superseding 
chilli- vinegar  for  this  purpose. 


36  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

The  next  important  feature  for  consideration  in  soup- 
making  is  the  adding  of  ivine,  which,  I  think,  may  be 
regarded  as  very  essential.  Madeira  or  Marsala  is  better 
than  sherry  for  most  soups.  A  rich,  full,  fruity  wine, — 
inexpensive  for  want  of  age,  and  scarcely  to  be  recom- 
mended for  after  dinner  drinking, — is  the  class  best  adapted 
for  kitchen  use.  If  sherry  be  preferred,  it  ought  to  be  a 
fruity  one,  and  sound,  not  a  cheap  extraordinary  compound, 
composed  of  molasses,  washings  of  sherry  casks,  and  the 
most  villainous  brandy ;  but  honest  sherry,  lacking  age, 
perhaps,  yet  hond  fide  wine.  "  There  is  a  good  saying," 
observes  an  author  on  cookery,  that  is  appropriate  here  : — 
"  It  is  no  use  spoiling  the  ship  for  the  sake  of  a  ha'porth 
of  tar," — it  is,  I  think,  no  use  spoiling  a  good  soup  for  the 
sake  of  a  spoonful  of  wine."  Be  careful,  however,  not  to 
overdo  the  soupr^on  of  wine  that  you  add  to  a  clear  soup  ; 
a  good  table-spoonful  is,  to  my  mind,  enough  for  a  tureen 
filled  for  eight  persons.  Thick  soups,  especially  those 
made  of  game,  mock-turtle,  giblet,  kidney,  and  the  like, 
take  a  larger  share  of  wine  :  hare  soup  requires  port  or 
burgundy,  wild  duck  and  teal  soup  also,  whilst  potages  of 
snipe,  partridges,  quails,  jungle-fowls,  &c.,  are,  I  think, 
better  enriched  with  Madeii-a,  or  Marsala. 

I  have  hitherto  purposely  omitted  saying  anything  con- 
cerning the  treatment  of  the  meat  and  vegetables  of  which 
a  pot-au-feio  is  made,  being  anxious  to  keep  strictly  to  the 
subject  which  we  have  been  discussing, — the  cookery  of  a 
clear  consomme.  Before  I  go  on  with  soup-making,  how- 
ever, I  beg  par  parenthSse  as  it  were,  to  turn  back  to  that 
period  in  the  preparation  of  the  soup  when  we  strained  the 
consomme  from  the  meat,  bones,  and  vegetables,  which  had 
made  it. 

In  the  Madras  kitchen  the  soup-meat  is  regarded,  I 
believe,  as  the  perquisite  of  the  cook's  maty,  which,  being 
interpreted,  may  be  understood  to  mean  really  that  of  the 


ON  STOCK,  AND  CLEAR  SOUPS.  37 

cook  himself.  Wlietlier  this  custom  be  susceptible  of  reform 
or  not,  I  hesitate  to  say,  but  there  can  be  no  doubt  at  all  that, 
by  giving  way  to  it,  we  often  deny  ourselves  a  dish  which 
would  be  exceedingly  nice  for  a  change, — one  which,  on  the 
continent,  is  sent  to  table  as  a  matter  of  course. 

In  small  establishments,  or  for  the  quiet  dinner  alone, 
I  can  strongly  recommend  a  trial  of  home-made  houilli, 
which  should  be  treated  in  this  way  : — 

Let  us  assume  that  the  recipe  for  pot-au-feu  has  been 
strictly  carried  out  as  far  as  the  straining  stage,  and  that  all 
the  vegetables,  or  as  many  of  them  as  were  procurable, 
have  been  used  :  now,  place  the  meat  on  a  dish,  remove 
the  string  that  bound  it,  and  serve  it  upon  a  bed  of  mac- 
caroni  previously  boiled  till  tender,  and  a  puree  obtained  by 
rubbing  all  the  vegetables  through  the  wire  sieve,  mois- 
tened with  a  portion  of  the  bouillon  or  consomme ;  or  on  a 
bed  of  stewed  cabbage,  with  the  other  vegetables  neatly 
arranged  round  it,  in  the  clear  broth. 

Don't  rush  away  with  the  Anglo-Saxon  idea  that  there 
is  no  "  goodness"  (Martha's  word)  in  soup-meat,  "  There 
is,"  sa,ys  the  G-.  C,  "  as  much  nutriment  in  it,  when  eaten 
with  the  soup  it  has  yielded,  as  there  would  have  been, 
had  it  been  roasted  ;  and  much  more  than  if  it  had  been 
converted  into  salt  junk,  as  it  is  the  English  custom  to  do 
with  the  silverside  of  beef."  You  can  vary  the  houilli  by 
tomato  sauce,  any  piquante  sauce,  or  even  souhise.  The 
soup-meat  served  with  maccaroni,  grated  Parmesan,  and 
furee  of  tomatoes  is  the  favourite  "  manzo  guernito''  of  the 
Italian  dinner. 

Talking  of  soup-meat,  does  every  one  know  that  the 
potted  meats  so  largely  exported,  and  commonly  appre- 
ciated in  this  country,  are  made  from  the  meat  of  which 
the  tinned  soups  are  composed  ?  It  is  a  fact  nevertheless, 
and  every  atom  of  meat  is  thus  turned  to  account  by  the 

4 


38  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

preserved  provision  dealers.  The  potted  meat  you  see  in 
a  confectioner's  window  at  home,  neatly  capped  with 
melted  butter,  is  made  from  the  beef  which  produced  the 
stock  of  the  mock-turtle  (I  bet  anything  it  is  "  mock- 
turtle,")  he  advertises  at  a  shilling  a  basin — enterprising 
man  !  I  once  tested  this  myself.  Having  before  me  a 
large  piece  of  soup-meat  apparently  full  of  nutriment,  I 
determined  as  an  experiment,  to  make  potted  meat  of  it. 
Martha,  my  cook,  looked  sourly  on, — I  little  knew  that  I 
was  robbing  her  of  the  price  of  that  meat  from  the  nearest 
pastry-cook, — and  called  it,  for  her  part,  a  "  hawful  mess"  ; 
but  we,  who  ate  it,  found  it  delicious.  In  London,  and  all 
large  towns  in  England,  a  regular  private  trade  in  soup- 
meat,  dripping,  and  fragments,  is  carried  on  between  our 
cooks  and  the  keepers  of  refreshment  rooms,  which  both 
parties  regard  as  perfectly  legitimate. 

But  to  return  to  the  subject  of  soups.  Although  we 
may  succeed  in  mastering  the  difficulties  of  the  cotisomme, 
or  foundation  of  soup-making,  we  must  not  forget  that  our 
work  may  be  spoiled  by  the  introduction  of  some  barbarism 
peculiar  to  the  Indian  kitchen.  An  idea  prevails  with 
Bome  people  that  clear  soups  require  to  be  assisted  with 
gelatine,  or  isinglass,  to  give  them  a  sort  of  glutinous  con- 
sistency. Ramasamy  has  discovered  a  very  pernicious  sort 
of  starch  which  he  produces  from  a  raw-potato,  and  by  this 
compound  the  soup  in  many  houses,  I  know,  is  ruined.  The 
potato  imparts  a  crude,  inky  flavour  to  the  consomme  which 
is  hard  to  describe  on  paper,  but  is  fatal  in  its  effect  upon 
the  palate.  It  kills  all  the  flavour  of  the  meat  and  vege- 
tables. Ramasamy  should  be  cautioned  on  no  account  to 
use  what  he  calls  "  potato-thickening"  again,  in  any  cir- 
cumstances whatever,  and,  once  for  all,  let  me  observe 
that  clear  soups  require  no  isinglass.  The  consomme  cannot 
be  too  bright,  light,  and  clear. 

*'  Countiy  parsley,"  to  my  mind,  spoils  any  soup.     It  is 


ON  STOCK,  AND  CLEAR  SOUPS.  39 

nearly  as  bad  as  too  mncli  spice,  and  nnforttLnately  our 
natives  are  very  fond  of  it.  I  have  interdicted  its  use  in 
my  kitchen  under  pain  of  a  fine.  Tarragon  is  the  best 
flavouring  herb  you  can  use  in  a  clear  soup,  (consomme  ct 
VestragoTi)  but  we  have  only  the  vinegar  in  India,  not  the 
plant  itself,  and  a  leaf  or  two  is,  what  we  desire  in  soup. 
I  brought  out  from  England  and  have  also  received  by 
post,  some  dried  tarragon  leaves  which  I  have  found  highly 
satisfactory,  and  can  safely  recommend  others  to  try. 
Unfortunately  tarragon  is  not  included  in  Crosse  and 
Blackwell's  dried  herb  list,  so  you  must  write,  if  suffi- 
ciently enthusiastic,  to  a  friend  who  has  a  large  kitchen 
garden,  and  beg  him  to  fill  a  bottle  or  two  with  tarragon 
leaves  carefully  dried  for  you.  In  London  any  green- 
grocer can  comply  with  this  order  from  June  till  the  end 
of  October.* 

Basil,  which  can  be  procured  in  bottles,  is  the  best 
herb  for  clear  mock  turtle,  and  other  clear  soups  made 
of  shell-fish. 

I  will  now  conclude  this,  my  fii'st  chapter  on  soup- 
making,  with  a  code  of  general  rules  on  the  subject : — 

1.  Take  care  that  your  stock  pot,  a  roomy  vessel,  is 
thoroughly  clean  before  you  commence  operations ; — a 
good  scalding  with  hot-water  in  which  a  lump  of  washing 
soda  has  been  dissolved,  will  make  matters  certain,  and 
take  away  that  smoky  taint  which  all  our  utensils  get  in 
India  owing  to  our  wood  fires,  and  chimneyless  ranges. 

2.  Use  soft  water  rather  than  hard, 

3.  One  shin  of  Indian  beef  is  enough  for  two  persons, 
two  shins  ought  to  suffice  for  six,  and  so  on. 

4.  Put  the  fresh  soup-meat  with  the  bones  separately 
broken  up,  and  the  salt,  into  cold-water  :  hot  (not  boiling) 

*  Since  this  was  written  in  1878,  Messrs.  Moir  and  Son  have  intro- 
duced the  di-ied  herb  in  bottles  which  will  be  found  excellent. — W. 


40  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

water  should  be  pom-ed  round  meat  and  bones  that  have 
been  previously  cooked. 

5.  A  quart  of  water  to  half  a  pound  of  meat  and  bone 
is  said  to  be  the  outside  you  can  allow  in  England,  but  a 
smaller  proportion  will  be  found  advisable  in  India — a 
quart  to  a  pound  for  instance.  In  any  circumstances 
there  must  be  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  meat  and  bone. 

6.  Remember  that  slow  boiling,  and  retarding  actual 
boiling  as  much  as  possible,  are  important  points  to  start 
with. 

7.  Do  not  cover  up  your  pot  closely,  the  steam  should 
evaporate  t-o  assist  the  strength  of  the  soup,  and  keep 
it  clear, 

8.  Skim  frequently  during  the  early  stage  of  your  pro- 
ceedings,— a  cup  of  cold-water  thrown  into  the  pot  causes 
the  scum,  or  albumen,  to  come  up  quickly,  and,  of  coui-se, 
retards  boiling. 

9.  Use  a  wooden  spoon. 

10.  Put  in  your  vegetables,  flavouring  herbs,  &c.,  after 
the  skimming  is  finished,  and  let  them  simmer  till  they 
are  done. 

11.  Wash  your  vegetables  very  carefully  before  adding 
them. 

12.  As  soon  as  the  vegetables  which  arc  put  into  the 
pot-aii-feu  are  done,  they  should  be  removed,  and  the  heat 
under  the  soup-kettle  maintained  at  simmering  point. 

13.  It  will  take  four  or  five  hours  to  extract  the  essence 
from  a  few  pounds  of  beef,  so  begin  as  soon  as  you  can, 
and  don't  hurry  the  work. 

14.  It  is  better  to  season  too  little  than  too  highly,  so 
be  very  careful  when  adding  pepper,  herbs,  &c. 


ON  STOCK,  AND  CLEAR  SOUPS.  41 

15.  There  is  nothing  to  be  gained  by  keeping  the  meat 
simmering  when  once  it  is  thoroughly  done.  The  consomrne 
is  at  its  best  when  the  meat  which  made  it  is  done  to  a 
nicety,  viz.,  in  about  five  hours.  Boiling  "  to  rags"  is  a 
useless  proceeding. 

N.B. — Remember  that  you  will  never  succeed  in  obtain- 
ing a  nicely  flavoured  clear  soup,  unless  the  proportions  of 
meat  and  vegetables  are  carefully  maintained.  For  three 
pounds  of  meat  and  one  of  bone,  Gouffe  gives  the  following 
weights  of  vegetables  : — carrots,  ten  ounces  ;  large  onions, 
ten  ounces ;  leeks,  fourteen  ounces ;  celery,  one  ounce ; 
turnips,  ten  ounces  ;  parsnip,  two  ounces. 

As  leeks  are  not  often  found  in  the  Madras  market,  I 
would  substitute  another  large  onion,  about  five  ounces. 
Parsnips  are  only  procurable  on  the  ISTeilgherries,  their 
weight  may  be  made  up  with  some  extra  carrot.  Turnips, 
unless  gathered  fresh  and  young,  are  a2:)t  to  be  very  strong 
in  India ;  I  think,  therefore,  that  five  ounces  of  them  will 
be  found  sufiicient  as  a  rule.  Observe  the  weight  allowed 
of  celery ; — this  is  important,  for  celery  is  a  very  power- 
fully flavoured  vegetable. 

Concerning  vegetable  consomme,  I  speak  later  on. 

Have  the  rules,  I  have  given,  together  with  the  weigTits 
of  meat  and  vegetables,  and  the  recipe  for  pot-au-feu, 
written  out  in  Tamil  by  your  butler  and  pasted  upon 
card-board,  to  be  hung  in  the  cook-room  for  Ramasamy's 
edification  whose  self-taught  method  of  soup-making  may 
be  briefly  described  as  follows  : — 

He  cuts  up  the  soup-meat,  and  bone,  and  throws  them 
into  the  digester  pot ;  he  next  adds  the  vegetables,  pepper, 
salt  and  spice,  covers  the  whole  with  water,  puts  the  vessel 
screwed  down  on  a  good  brisk  fire,  and  walks  off  to  Ms 
rice,  leaving  his  tumiycutch  to  watch  the  boiling.  All  she 
does  is  to  see  that  there  is  plenty  of  firewood  under  the 


42  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

digester.  As  may  readily  be  supposed  boiling  point  is 
speedily  reached  in  this  way  of  managing  matters.  In  an 
hour  or  so  the  cook  returns  and  finds  the  water  he  put  into 
the  pot  reduced  to  about  one-third  of  its  original  quantity  ; 
this  is,  of  course,  a  very  strong  broth,  he  accordingly 
strains  it  off,  and  calls  it  his  "  first  sort  gravy."  He  then 
returns  the  meat,  &c.,  to  the  pot  again,  covers  it  with 
water,  and  lets  that  boil  away.  The  liquid  thus  produced, 
I  need  scarcely  say,  is  terrible  to  look  upon,  and  very  nasty 
to  taste,  the  whole  essence  of  the  meat  having  been  fritter- 
ed away  by  the  first  process.  It  is  a  dull,  gi-easy-looking 
fluid  like  dish  washings.  Nevertheless  Ramasamy  strains 
it  off  and  calls  it  the  "  second  sort  gravy."  He  next  amal- 
gamates the  two  "  sorts,"  browns  the  mixture  with  burnt 
onion,  and  clarifies  it  with  the  white  of  an  e^g.  Having 
got  it  clear,  he  rasps  some  raw  potato  into  it  to  obtain  a 
nice  glutinous  starch,  and  when  the  soup  seems  sufficiently 
gummy,  he  strains  once  more  and  sends  it  to  table. 

Setting  aside  other  considerations,  pray  observe  the 
wastefulness  of  this  awful  process.  It  is  not  exaggeration 
to  say  that  half  the  quantity  of  soup-meat  and  bone 
required  by  the  ignorant  native  cook  might  be  saved  if  he 
could  be  prevailed  upon  to  follow  the  laws  of  intelligent 
cookery. 


o:E3:^^^TEie  -^i. 


Thick  soups  and  purees. 

OW  about  thick  soups,  apart  from  purees : — these 
are  perhaps  more  popular  with  the  majority  of 
English  people,  than  the  thin  clear.  There  is  an 
expression  of  richness  and  of  strength  in  them  which 
cannot  fail  to  captivate  the  Briton.  He,  therefore,  that 
would  gratify  his  countrymen,  must  frequently  offer  them 
a  soup  which  is  in  itself  a  meal. 

I  made  the  acquaintance  of  a  little  French  woman  in 
London  whose  husband  kept  a  pastry  cook's  shop  and  was 
a  chef  indeed.  Asking  one  day  in  a  hurry  for  any  clear 
soup  they  could  give  me,  Madame  Gregoire  arched  her 
eyebrows  and  said  "  Ah  !  vi'sieur  it  would  not  pay  us  to 
make  for  our  customers  the  consomme.  Ox-tail,  mock-tur- 
tle, and  puree  de  pois  we  have  ready  ;  for  a  clear  soup,  we 
must  have  notice  of  a  few  hours."  And  we  exchanged 
our  regrets  that  Englishmen  could  not  appreciate,  even  in 
the  midst  of  July,  Si  potage  a  la  printaniere. 

Still  I  confess  that  a  thick  soup  is  acceptable  at  times  : 
— In  cool  weather ;  when  you  return  as  hungry  as  a 
hunter  from  some  physical  enterprise  ;  or  when  you  have 
a  little  cosy  dinner  of  only  a  very  few  items  to  discuss — a 
soup,  a  slice  of  a  joint,  a  dressed  vegetable,  and  your 
cheese.  But  I  hesitate  to  recommend  soups  of  this  class 
for  a  Madras  dinner  party, — to  be  placed  before  men  whose 


44  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

labours  all  day  have  been  sedentary,  and  ladies  who  have 
lunched  well,  and  passed  their  day  in  graceful  repose. 
And  it  is  mainly  for  them,  be  it  remembered,  that  I  com- 
pose what  a  friendly  critic  terms  my  "  menus  mi  gowns.'' 

There  is  one  feature  about  thick  soups  which  is  worthy 
of  attention,  and  that  is  that  you  need  not  be  so  scrupu- 
lously careful  in  the  making  of  the  stock,  or  in  selecting 
the  materials  of  which  the  stock  is  made,  for  you  have 
not  to  think  of  that  clearness  which  is  the  salient  feature 
of  your  consomme.  Thick  soups  can  therefore,  be  made 
of  the  bones  of  cooked  meat,  and  scraps  that  would  never 
do  for  potage  a  la  Julienne  for  instance. 

Let  us  take  as  a  type  of  a  really  good  thick  soup  that 
called  potage  a  la  bonne  femme,  which,  is  made  in  this 
way.  Prepare  a  quart  of  stock,  and  keep  that  by  your 
side  :  now  cut  up  a  good-sized  (Bombay)  onion  into  very 
thin  rounds,  and  place  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  two 
ounces  of  good  tinned  butter.  Take  care  not  to  let  the 
onion  get  brown,  and  when  it  is  half  done,  throw  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sorrel  leaves,  a  lettuce,  and  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  all  finely  shred,  add  pepper,  salt,  half  an  ounce 
of  flour,  and  keep  stirring  for  five  minutes.  You  then 
add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  pounded  loaf-sugar,  and  half  a 
cupful  of  the  stock,  freed  from  fat,  and  not  coloured.  Let 
the  mixture  reduce  nearly  to  a  glaze,  when  you  gradually 
stir  in  about  a  quart  of  the  stock  ;  and  let  the  soup  simmer 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  You  now  must  prepare  about  a 
dozen  pieces  of  bread  cut  very  thin  about  two  inches  long, 
and  an  inch  wide,  taking  care  that  there  is  crust  along 
one  of  their  long  sides,  and  you  must  dry  these  thoroughly 
in  the  oven.  When  it  is  time  to  send  up  the  soup,  you 
remove  the  superfluous  fat  from  it,  and  set  it  to  simmer 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Xow,  prepare  a  liaison  made  as 
follows  : — Break  two  eggs  in  a  basin,  beat  them  well  as 


THICK  SOUPS  AND  PUREES.  45 

for  an  omelette  adding  two  ounces  of  butter,  dip  a  coffee- 
cup  into  the  soup,  and  mix  tliat  quantity  with  the  egg  and 
butter,  adding  another  cupful  when  the  butter  is  melted. 
Take  the  soup  off  the  fire,  pour  it  over  the  slices  of  bread, 
next  add  the  liaison,  and  serve  in  three  minutes.  This 
should  be  enough  for  six  basins.  The  eggs  must  be  tho- 
roughly beaten,  if  not,  pieces  of  the  white  will  form  in 
flakes  in  the  boiling  soup,  and  spoil  its  appearance. 

This  leads  me  to  an  important  point  in  most  thick  soups, 
and  purees,  and  that  is  the  addition  of  cream,  or  milk 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs.  It  will  be  found  in  some  recipes 
for  these  soups  that  boiled  cream  is  ordered  to  be  added. 
The  distinction  is  important :  not  merely  is  the  risk  of 
curdling  avoided,  but  the  flavour  imparted  to  the  potage 
is  different.  All  know,  for  example,  how  different  is  the 
taste  of  coffee  that  is  made  with  boiling  milk,  from  that  to 
which  cold  milk  has  been  added.  When  therefore  you 
add  cream  to  soup,  boil  it  beforehand  separately. 

Milk  is  a  substitute  for  cream  especially  if  a  yolk  of  an 
egg  be  added  to  it,  but  be  careful  in  adding  the  yolk  lest 
the  soup  be  curdled.  To  do  this,  boil  the  milk  first  atten- 
tively, and  pour  it  through  a  strainer  into  the  soup  ;  next 
make  the  tureen  hot,  and  just  before  serving,  throw 
into  it  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  and  a  little  butter ;  take  a 
spoonful  of  the  soup,  and  work  it  well  with  the  yolk, 
then  add  more  soup,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  mixing  tho- 
roughly ;  lastly,  pour  in  the  remainder  of  the  soup  which 
should,  of  course,  be  as  hot  as  possible. 

Whether  you  add  eggs,  cream,  or  milk  to  soup,  it  is  a 
sine  quel  non  that  the  process  be  carried  out  off  the  fire,  i.e., 
the  vessel  containing  the  soup  must  be  lifted  from  the  fire 
before  you  go  to  work. 

Thick  soups  may  be  divided  into  two  classes — the  white, 
and  the  brown.     The  principles  followed  in  both  are  very 


46  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

similar ;  the  main  difference,  of  course,  consists  in  the  sort 
of  meat  used,  and  the  employment  of  roux,  or  liaison  as 
the  case  may  be. 

Boux  is  simply  melted  butter,  with  flour  added  to  it, 
axjcording  to  the  quantity  of  soup  you  want  to  thicken. 
The  butter  must  he  melted  first,  the  flour  being  dredged  in 
by  degrees,  and  stirred  vigorously  at  the  bottom  of  the 
sauce-pan  until  thoroughly  incorporated,  and  velvety.  As 
soon  as  it  turns  hroivn,  the  roux  is  ready.  This  is  what  is 
wanted  for  brown  soups.  For  a  white,  the  liaison  must 
nut  be  allo^Yed  to  take  colour ;  you  must  commence  adding 
the  soup  to  it  as  soon  as  the  flour  and  butter  have  been 
sufficiently  worked  together. 

In  making  these  soups,  the  utmost  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  over-do  the  thickening.  In  the  case  of  a  white 
soup,  this  error  is  almost  more  fatal  than  in  that  of  a 
brown.  You  might  as  well  offer  your  guest  a  basin  of 
arro^^^•oot  "  conjee,"  or  any  nice  gruel,  for  the  savoury 
flavour  of  the  soup  is  easily  overpowered.  A  little  prac- 
tice will  teach  a  cook  how  much  flour,  is  necessary  to 
obtain  the  desired  consistency  of  a  thick  soup,  and  he 
should  bear  in  mind  that  the  full  effect  of  the  thickening 
does  not  assert  itself  until  the  soujd,  which  has  been  added 
to  it,  comes  to  the  boil. 

Observe  that  you  add  the  soup  to  the  roux,  not  the 
roux  to  the  soup.  The  adding  should  be  done  by  degrees, 
if  you  want  the  soup  to  be  smooth  and  creamy. 

If,  after  coming  to  the  boil,  you  find  the  soup  too  thin, 
you  must  proceed  as  follows  : — mix  a  little  more  roux  very 
carefully  in  a  small  sauce-pan,  add  a  cupful  of  the  soup  to 
it,  and  when  quite  smooth,  and  free  from  lumps,  pour  it 
by  degrees  into  the  soup,  off  the  fire,  through  a  pointed 
gravy  strainer,  stirring  vigorously  as  you  do  so.  When 
quite  mixed,  replace  the  vessel  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  up. 


THICK  SOUPS  AND  PUREES.  47 

I  have  given  several  recipes  for  thick  soups  such  as 
mock-turtle,  ox-tail,  giblet,  &c,,  in  my  menus,  and  if  the 
few  general  rules  I  have  laid  down  be  carefully  noted,  I 
think  that  my  readers  will  experience  very  little  difficulty 
in  carrying  them  out  satisfactorily. 

And  now,  we  come  to  the  puree  which,  to  my  mind,  is 
perhaps  one  of  the  most  important  features  of  the  whole 
study  of  cookery. 

In  India  this  form  of  preparing  our  meat  and  vegetables 
ought  to  be  much  more  generally  understood  and  practised 
than  it  is.  In  a  puree  we  can  work  into  a  palatable  and 
wholesome  condition,  meat  that  from  its  poverty  or  tough- 
ness, would  be  sorry  fare  indeed  if  boiled,  or  roasted.  An 
ordinary  little  dish  of  neatly  trimmed  mutton-chops  (nicely 
grilled  over  a  clear  &e)  becomes  an  artistic  entree  if  served 
round  a  nest  of  mashed  potato,  containing  a  delicate  puree 
of  vegetable,  such  as  celery,  peas,  asparagus,  tomato, 
spinach,  &c.,  whilst  common  onion  sauce,  thus  treated,  is 
promoted  to  the  dignity  of  sauce  souhise. 

Old  partridges  and  jungle  fowl,  the  remains  of  cold 
poultry,  and  of  all  game,  can  be  turned  to  capital  account 
in  a  puree.  Even  an  ancient,  and  extraordinarily  tough 
"  moorghee^'  may  be  thus  rendered  fit  to  eat.  For  the  sick, 
and  for  those  suffering  from  tooth- ache,  food  cooked  in 
this  manner  is  invaluable,  whilst  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  it  must  be  good  for  children. 

In  order  to  be  able  to  accomplish  the  making  of  purees 
satisfactorily  you  must  possess  a  strong  pestle  and  mortar, 
a  large  hair  sieve,  a  wire  sieve,  and  a  mincing  machine. 
If  you  desire  to  make  a  puree  of  meat  of  any  kind,  an 
immense  amount  of  labour  is  saved  by  first  using  the 
mincer,  the  work  in  the  mortar  is  then  reduced  to  a  mini- 
mum, and  the  pounded  meat  will  soon  be  ready  to  pass 
through  the  sieve. 


48  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

In  using  the  sieve,  by  the  way,  caution  your  cook  that 
he  must  always  put  whatever  he  wishes  to  pass  through 
it,  at  the  shallow  end.,  placing  the  sieve  over  a  large  bowl, 
or  dish,  big  enough  to  receive  it,  and  rubbing  the  puree 
through  it  with  a  large  wooden  spoon.  From  time  to  time 
he  must  invert  the  sieve,  and  scrape  off  the  portion  of  the 
puree  which  always  adheres  to  the  reverse  side  of  the  hair, 
or  wire.  A  cook  must  be  patient  in  the  use  of  this  utensil, 
and  achieve  his  object  by  perseverance,  rather  than  by 
boisterous  work.  If  you  bear  too  heavily  on  the  hair, 
your  sieve  will  soon  bulge,  and  ere  long  the  hair  will  part 
company  from  the  wooden  cylinder  to  which  it  is  attached. 

Purees.,  as  soups,  are  prepared  in  this  way  : — You  first 
must  make  as  good  a  bowl  of  stock  as  you  can  from  bones, 
meat,  scraps,  (bones  of  ham  and  bacon  especially  valuable) 
sufficient  for  the  number  of  people  you  have  to  cater  for. 
Let  it  get  cool  and  remove  the  fat  that  rises  to  its  surface. 
You  should  flavour  your  stock  to  the  best  of  your  capa- 
bilities with  dried  sweet  herbs,  onion,  parsley,  a  carrot  or 
two,  celery,  <tc.,  or  such  vegetables  as  may  be  available, 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  The  better  your  stock,  or 
foundation,  the  better  jovoc  puree. 

Suppose,  now,  that  you  want  to  make  iiotage  a  la  Crecij, 
which  in  plain  terms  is  carrot  puree : — boil  as  many  carrots 
as  you  think  will  suffice  for  the  quantity  of  soup  you  have 
to  make  in  the  stock  made  as  aforesaid  :  when  thoroughly 
done,  drain  them,  and  pass  them  through  the  sieve.  Now, 
mix  the  pulp  so  obtained  with  sufficient  of  the  stock  to 
make  a  puree  a  little  thinner  than  you  wish  your  soup 
eventually  to  be.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of 
a  sauce-pan,  and  work  a  little  flour  into  it,  gradually 
adding  th.Q  puree,  and  stirring  without  ceasing  till  the  soup 
comes  to  the  boil,  when  it  will  bo  found  of  the  proper 
consistency.     Skim,  if  necessary,  and  serve. 


THICK  SOUPS,  AND  PUREES,  49 

The  pith  of  this  recipe,  and  of  all  receipts  for  purees,  lies 
ill  the  liaison  of  melted  butter  and  flour  which  must  be 
worked  into  the  soup  as  described,  and  at  the  period  indi- 
cated. Why  ? — well,  have  you  ever  noticed  carrot,  or 
pea-soup,  which,  when  sent  to  table,  instead  of  looking  the 
creamy  red,  or  green  puree  that  you  desired,  presented  the 
appearance  of  a  thin  gravy  soup,  with  a  quantity  of  the 
vegetable  pulp  at  the  bottom  of  each  basin — the  stock  and 
the  pulp  not  having  amalgamated  ?  This  result  was 
caused  by  the  omission  of  the  process  I  have  described 
which  is  necessary  to  blend  the  two  together, 

Grecy  soup  should  be  served  with  bread  cut  into  dice 
and  fried  in  butter ;  or  crisped  on  a  buttered  tin  in  the  oven 
after  having  been  soaked  in  a  little  of  the  stock.  Croutons, 
treated    in    this    way,    should  accompany    all    vegetable 

purees. 

Purees  of  celery,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  (Palestine  soup,) 
onion,  and  turnips,  if  the  stock  be  kept  free  from  colour, 
can  be  served  as  white  soups,  and  cream,  or  the  substitute 
already  described,  will  be  found  an  improvement  to  all  of 
them. 

""  Potage  a  la  reine,^'  a  very  old  white  soup,  is  really  a 
puree  of  fowl  or  turkey,  and  an  excellent  white  potage, 
very  like  it,  can  be  produced  from  a  rabbit.  Those  artistic 
entrees  "  creme  de  Jiomard,''  "  creme  de  volaille,''  "  crenie 
d'artichaicts,''  Sf'c,  are  merely  consolidated  purees.  The 
quenelle  again,  is  only  meat  worked  to  that  condition,  and 
bound  with  bread-crumb,  or  paste,  and  eggs. 

The  puree  of  chestnuts  is  a  well-known  delicacy  at 
elaborate  banquets  at  home  and  abroad,  whether  in  the 
form  of  soup,  or  as  a  sauce  to  accompany  white  entrees, 
and  especially  the  turkey.  The  Indian  nut  commonly 
known  as  the  "  promotion  nut,"  and  fresh  almonds,  mako 
capital  purees  if  carefully  treated^  and  I  daresay  that  there 

5 


50  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

are  other  nuts  to  be  got  in  India  that  wonld  well  repay  the 
trouble  of  a  trial,  in  the  same  way. 

All  green  vegetable  purees  derive  enrichment  in  appear- 
ance by  the  judicious  addition  of  "  spinach-greening"  which 
is,  in  itself,  the  liquor  obtained  from  spinach  boiled,  di-ain- 
ed,  worked  through  the  sieve,  and  then  squeezed  through  a 
piece  of  muslin.  I  have  seen  people  quite  deceived  with  a 
soup  made  with  di-ied  peas  and  coloiu^ed  with  "  spinach- 
greening"  in  imitation  of  puree  de  pois  verts.  A  pinch  of 
sugar  ought  not  to  be  forgotten  in  making  these  soups. 

The  enterprising  cultivators  of  asparagus  at  Madras 
ought  now  and  then  to  indulge  their  guests  with  that 
excellent  soup  "puree  d'asperges,''  which  however  ranks 
next,  I  take  it,  to  the  still  more  artistic  "consomme  aux 
points  d'asperges.'' 

You  can  make  a  capital  green  puree  any  day  at  Madras 
with  French  beans  ;  and  with  one  tin  oi  petits pois  (thought- 
fully assisted  with  spinach-greening  if  the  peas  have  lost 
colour)  you  can  produce  a  very  perfect  puree  of  green 
peas  for  about  eight  people.  A  very  inviting-looking  soup 
of  bright  colour  can  be  made  from  tomatoes,  following 
exactly  the  receijDt  for  "  Crecy,"  and  substituting  tomatoes 
for  carrots. 

Brown  purees  are,  of  course,  those  made  of  game  such 
as  hares,  partridges,  snipe,  wild  duck,  teal,  etc.  In  this 
way  you  can  always  advantageously  dispose  of  tough  old 
birds.  A  good  puree  de  gihier,  of  hare,  or  of  any  game- 
bird,  is,  TN-ithout  doubt,  soup  which  is  with  justice  widely 
popular.  It  is  essentially  the  soup  of  the  hungry  man. 
A  basin  of  it,  to  use  a  homely  phrase,  "  goes  a  long  way." 
It  carries  your  thoughts  back  to  winter  fires,  to  old-fashion- 
ed, yet  generous  fare,  and  to  the  glorious  appetite  with 
which  you  spread  your  napkin  before  you  after  a  day  with 
the  hounds,  a  trudge  after  wild  partridges,  or  a  long  drive 
through  the  keen  frosty  air  of  some  by-gone  Christmastide  ! 


THICK  SOUPS,  AND  PUREES.  51 

These  soups  are  what  house-keepers  call  "  rich,"  for  in 
their  composition  jou  must  employ  port,  or  Madeira,  red 
currant  jelly,  butter,  cream,  yolks  of  eggs,  &c.  One  of 
the  greatest  cooks  of  the  age  propounds  half  a  bottle  of 
old  port  for  his  hare  soup  !  and  all  game  soups  take  a 
goodly  share  of  wine. 

The  points  to  observe  in  the  making  of  these  purees  are, 
first,  to  get  every  atom  of  flavour  you  can  out  of  the  bones, 
scraps,  and  giblets,  which  is  done  by  simmering  them 
watchfully  in  stock.  Then  to  work  all  the  meat  you  can 
pick  from  the  birds  to  a  stiff  paste  in  a  mortar  (having 
first  minced  it  in  the  machine)  passing  it  through  the 
sieve  to  get  rid  of  fibre,  gristle,  and  so  forth.  Next  to 
blend  the  pulp  of  the  game  with  the  stock  in  the  way  I 
have  previously  described.  And  lastly,  to  follow  with 
accuracy  whatever  recipe  you  have  taken  as  regards  the 
flavouring  elements.  Do  not  leave  out  anything  if  you 
can  possibly  manage  it.  Dried  sweet  herbs,  (thyme  and 
marjoram,)  are  as  necessary  in  game  soups,  as  is  basil  in 
turtle ;  and  red  currant  jelly  is  indispensable.  Spice  is 
often  mentioned  in  recipes  for  these  soups.  I  do  not  recom- 
mend it.  In  fact,  beyond  the  two  cloves  inserted  in  the 
onion  used  for  the  stock,  I  would  carefully  omit  it. 

As  I  intend  to  give  detailed  instructions  for  game  purees 
in  their  turn  in  my  menus,  I  will  not  pursue  the  subject 
any  further  in  this  chapter.  Neither  will  I  discuss  the 
treatment  of  tinned  soups  just  yet,  for  I  shall  reserve  that 
branch  of  Indian  soup-making  for  consideration  hereafter 
in  a  chapter  devoted  to  "  Camp  cookery." 

N.B. — Caution  your  butler  to  be  careful  to  help  the 
soup  at  a  dinner  party  with  judgment.  One  ladleful  in 
each  basin  is  ample. 


— ♦ — 
Regarding  our  Fish. 

^ISH,  under  skilful  hands,  offers,"  says  Brillat 
Savarin,  "  inexhaustible  resources  of  gustatory 
enjoyment ;  whether  served  up  entire,  in  pieces, 
or  sliced  ;  done  in  water,  in  oil,  or  in  wine  ;  hot  or  cold  ; 
in  all  cases  it  receives  a  hearty  welcome."  "We,  who  live 
at  Madras,  on  a  coast  which  yields  a  perennial  supply  of 
good  fish,  (to  borrow  a  well-known  figure  of  speech)  should 
surely  lay  these  words  to  heart. 

With  a  market  as  fairly  well  supplied  as  ours,  we  ought 
never  to  be  at  a  loss  for  variety,  or  for  scope  to  exercise 
our  cook's  ingenuity.  The  fair  hostess  should  always  be 
able  to  soothe  herself  with  the  reflection  that  with  the 
fish,  at  all  events,  her  guests  will  be  well  satisfied.  Now, 
do  we  avail  oarselves,  as  we  ought  to  do,  of  the  many 
opportunities  we  undoubtedly  possess  of  turning  Madras 
fish  to  a  good  account  ?  I  certainly  think  not :  indeed  I 
fear  that  only  a  few  of  us  appreciate  the  true  value  of  this 
most  excellent  article  of  our  daily  food. 

At  the  ordinary  Madras  dinner  party,  you  may  rely 
almost  for  certain  on  having  boiled  seer  fish,  with  a  sauce, 
and  a  few  slices  of  cucumber  and  beetroot,  or  a  spoonful  of 
salad  !  on  the  side  of  your  plate.  Or  the  fish  may  be 
pomfret,  similarly  served.  "  Tartar e,''  "  a  parody  of  liollan- 
daise,'^  and  melted  butter  with  essence  of  anchovy,  com- 


REGARDING  OUR  FISH.  53 

pose  apparently  the  whole  repertoire  of  sauces  within  the 
reach  of  the  local  clief. 

N.B. — I  have  never  been  able  by  the  way  to  trace  the 
origin  of  the  Madras  custom  of  serving  a  portion  of  salad 
with  a  thick  eggy  dressing  on  the  same  plate  as  the  slice 
of  Jwt  fish.  To  put  salad  on  a  hot  plate  is  to  begin  with 
an  unpardonable  offence,  while  the  association  of  salad 
with  hot  fish  is  incongruous  in  the  extreme.  The  same 
remark  applies  to  the  service  of  cold  cucumber  and  beet- 
root with  hot  fish.  Delicately  stewed  cucumber,  hot,  little 
orlys  of  oysters,  ov  petit s  houchees  of  prawn  or  lobster,  may 
accompany  the  fish,  if  you  like ;  otherwise  it  should  be 
presented  with  its  sauce  alone.  The  proper  time  for  serv- 
ing the  salad  is  with  "  the  roast,''  when  it  should  be  sent 
round  on  separate  plates,  and  as  cold  as  possible. 

I^ow,  without  wishing  for  one  moment  to  question  the 
sterling  merits  of  plain-boiled  fish,  I  confess  that  for  a  din- 
ner party  I  strongly  advocate  dishes  of  a  more  artistic 
nature.  There  are  so  many  easy  recipes  for  cooking  fish 
nicely,  that  an  effort  to  produce  a  little  novelty  in  this 
feature  of  the  menu  can  scarcely  result  in  failure.  In  Eng- 
land where  you  have  many  varieties  of  fishes,  and  some  of 
the  best  of  them  only  to  be  seen  in  the  market  during  their 
especial  seasons,  a  little  sameness  in  the  style  of  cooking 
may  not  perhaps  strike  you.  You  may  boil  and  fry  plainly 
every  day  in  the  week,  if  each  day  you  are  able  to  present 
a  different  fish.  Not  so  with  us  in  Madras.  Our  supply 
is  good  enough,  but  it  lacks  diversity ;  and  it  is  on  this 
account  particularly  that  I  am  anxious  to  direct  the  atten- 
tion of  my  readers  to  a  few  easy  ways  of  relieving  the 
monotony  which  I  have  pointed  out. 

It  may  be  urged  that  your  fish  is  brought  home  from 
market  too  late  in  the  evening  for  the  successful  accom- 
plishment of  studied  effects,  and  perhaps  your  butler  will 
take  pains  to  thrust  that  fact  before  you.     Regard  such 


54  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

an  excuse,  please,  as  a  mere  evasion,  for,  in  point  of  fact, 
fish  takes  so  short  a  time  to  dress  thoroughly,  that  an 
hour  should  suffice  for  the  most  elaborate  recipe.  I  always 
bear  in  mind  the  iime  that  is  necessary  for  the  production 
of  the  dishes  I  select  for  my  inenns. 

Again,  many  people  hesitate  to  offer  their  guests  a  dish 
of  dressed  fish,  fearing  that  it  may  be  considered  too  rich. 
This  is  absui'd,  for  there  are  plain,  as  well  as  rich  methods 
of  varying  this  branch  of  cookery  ;  and,  in  composing  your 
onemi,  you  should  select  one  in  harmony  with  the  soup 
which  precedes,  and  entree  which  is  to  follow  it.  Thus  : 
if  your  soup  be  of  a  thick  creamy  kind,  and  your  first 
entree  (say)  a  vol-au-vent,  let  the  fish  be  served  in  aspic 
iced,  and  with  sauce  ravigote  or  tartare.  But  if  you  give 
a  clear  consomme  delicately  flavoured,  and  order  an  iced 
entree  to  succeed  the  fish,  you  can  indulge  in  a  "  matelote 
anx  chamjngnons,''  or  seer  "  d,  la  creme  de  crevettes."  A 
thick  soup,  fish  -wdtli  lobster  sauce,  followed  by  an  entree 
with  cream  in  its  composition,  would  form,  for  instance, 
a  combination  of  good  things  obviously  inartistic  in  design, 
and  one  which  few  could  enjoy  with  impunity.  As  I 
observed  in  an  early  chapter  of  my  "  jottings,"  the  charm 
of  a  dinner  according  to  the  new  regime  consists  in  the 
harmony  of  its  lights  and  shadows. 

N.B. — If  you  follow  the  new  style  of  menu,  and  present 
the  relet e  after  the  fish,  you  need  have  no  apprehension. 
With  regard  to  the  service  of  dressed  fish,  especially  if 
it  be  preceded  by  a  clear  soup. 

Fish,  we  all  know,  I  hope,  may  be  boiled,  fried,  baked, 
roasted,  stewed,  or  grilled ;  and  by  every  method  can 
tasty  dishes  be  prepared.  I  will  begin  with  the  principles 
to  be  observed  in  boiling  fish,  and  take  the  other  styles  of 
cookery  in  the  order  I  have  named. 

After  having  thoroughly  cleansed,  and  wiped  the  fish, 


REGARDING  OUR  FISH.  55 

rub  it  over  with  a  little  vinegar,  and  place  it  on  the 
drainer  of  the  fish-kettle,  so  that  when  done  it  may  be 
lifted  out  without  risk  of  breaking  up.  Put  plenty  of  salt, 
and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  vinegar,  into  the  water  in  which 
the  fish  is  to  be  boiled.  Let  the  water  be  cold,  and  in 
sufficient  quantity  to  cover  the  fish.  Place  the  kettle  on  a 
brisk  fire,  and  boil  the  fish  as  fast  as  possible.  Skim  off 
all  scum  that  rises,  and  take  care  to  suspend  operations, 
the  moment  the  fish  is  done.  Overboiled  fish  is  nasty  to 
eat,  and  ngly  to  look  upon :  underdone  fish  is  unfit  for 
human  food.  The  cookery  books  allow  ten  minutes  per 
pound  as  a  fair  average  of  the  time  required  for  this 
operation;  but  so  much  depends  upon  the  thickness  of 
the  fish  to  be  boiled,  that  the  cook  should  test  it  now  and 
then  with  the  point  of  a  skewer,  and  as  soon  as  the  flesh 
parts  easily  from  the  bone,  let  him  decide  that  it  is  ready. 

N'ever  let  your  fish,  after  it  is  done,  remain  soaking  in 
the  water  in  which  it  has  been  cooked ;  drain  it  at  once, 
or  it  will  become  what  cooks  call  "  woolly."  If  ready  too 
soon,  let  it  rest  on  the  drainer  over  the  hot  kettle,  and 
cover  it  with  a  napkin. 

If  you  have  no  fish-kettle,  put  your  fish  on  a  dish,  tie  a 
napkin  round  it,  and  boil  it :  when  done,  you  can  then  lift 
the  dish  out  of  the  pan  without  spoiling  the  appearance 
of  the  fish.  Be  very  particular  to  drain  every  drop  of 
water  from  the_fishJbefore  you  serve  it,  or  the  sauce  you 
send  up  with  it  will  be  ruined. 

Connoisseurs  in  the  art  of  cookery  recommend  that  fish 
should  be  boiled  in  a  "  Court  bouillon,^'  in  which  case  the 
process  is  thus  described  by  the  Gr.  C.  :  "  Having  placed 
the  fish  in  the  fish-kettle  with  enough  cold-water  to  cover 
it,  add  a  glass  of  vinegar,  some  slices  of  carrots  and  onions, 
and  a  clove  of  garlic ;  then  sweet  herbs,  and  spices  tied  up 
in  a  muslin  bag,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  parsley  or  celery. 


56  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

The  proportions  of  all  these  must  depend  upon  the  quan- 
tity of  fish  to  be  boiled,  the  skill  of  the  cook,  and  the  taste 
of  the  company."  When  nearly  done,  half  di'aw  the  fish- 
kettle  from  the  fire,  and  let  the  fish  simmer  gently  till  the 
moment  of  serving.  A  mixtui^e  of  white  wine  such  as 
chablis,  sauterne,  or  hock,  and  water,  in  equal  parts,  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  vinegar  and  water. 

Fish  cooked  '*  an  bleu''  is  also  considered  a  delicacy. 
The  preparation  is  exactly  like  court  ho2(,illo7i,  red  wine 
being  substituted  for  white. 

Court  hoidllon  a  la  Nanfaise  is  made  of  milk  and  water 
in  equal  parts,  salt,  and  pepper  in  proportion. 

The  art  of  frying  fish  consists  in  being  prodigal  in  the  use 
of  the  medium  which  you  employed  to  cook  with.  The  fish 
should  be  absolutely  immersed  in  a  bath  of  boiling  fat  or  oil, 
which  should  be  carefully  tested  so  that  you  may  be  convinc- 
ed of  its  temperature.  "  If  your  fat  be  not  sufficiently 
heated,"  says  the  authority  I  have  already  quoted,  "  the 
fish  you  want  to  fry  will  turn  out  a  flabby  and  greasy  mess, 
instead  of  a  crisp,  appetising  dish."  For  nearly  all  fish- 
frying,  the  frying  basket  is  an  invaluable  utensil,  used,  of 
course,  in  conjunction  with  the  deep-sided  friture-ipB.ii. 

Fish,  fried  in  the  English  fashion,  is  generally  egged 
and  bread-crumbed.  The  Italians,  who  are  perhaps  the 
best  '  frysters'  in  the  world,  either  flour  their  fish,  or  dip 
it  in  batter.  Both  methods  are,  to  my  mind,  vastly  supe- 
rior to  the  bread-crumbing  process.  If,  however,  you  must 
use  crumbs,  see  that  they  are  stale,  and  well  sifted ;  not 
the  pithy  lumps,  both  great  and  small,  too  often  set  before 
you,  because  Ramasamy  will  not  look  ahead,  and  rarely,  if 
ever  keeps  a  bottled  supply  of  stale,  well  rasped  bread  in 
hand. 

To  obtain  a  satisfactory  result,  proceed  as  follows  : — 
Having  crumbled  some  stale  bread  as  small  as  you  can  in 


REGARDING  OUR  FISH.  57 

a  napkin,  pass  the  crumbs  througli  a  stiff  wire  sieve  ;  then 
place  the  plate  containing  them  into  the  oven  to  dry 
thoroughly.  To  apply  them  properly,  beat  up  two  eggs 
with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  and  the  same  of  water. 
This  mixture  should  be  brushed  over  the  fish  like  varnish, 
and  the  fish  should  then  be  turned  over  in  a  napkin,  con- 
taining the  dry  crumbs. 

For  flouring  : — dip  the  fish  in  milk,  and  then  turn  it 
over  in  a  napkin  containing  some  flour.  A  recipe  for  fry- 
ing batter  will  be  found  in  the  chapter  reserved  for  the 
discussion  of  that  process  of  cookery. 

Under  the  head  of  baking  we  come  to  that  very  excellent 
method  of  treating  fish  which  is  familiar  to  most  of  you  as 
"  au  gratin."  The  cook  can,  in  this  way,  produce  very 
pleasant  results,  with  very  little  toil.  You  can  commence 
as  plainly  as  possible,  and  go  on  to  the  most  elaborate  and 
fanciful  dishes,  the  principles  in  all  being  similar.  The 
fish,  to  begin  with,  should  either  be  whole,  in  fillets,  or 
slices.  The  pie-dish  should  be  well  buttered ;  tomatoes, 
maccaroni,  mushrooms,  trufiles  of  course,  finely-minced 
parsley,  shallot,  lime  peel,  and  such,  fines  Jierhes  as  you  can 
command,  should  be  used  for  the  more  elaborate  composi- 
tions ;  whilst  parsley,  shallot,  and  butter  alone  with  fine 
bread-crumbs  will  suffice  for  the  plainer  dish  for  ordinary 
occasions.  A  gravy  made  from  the  bones  and  trimmings, 
with  a  few  pepper  corns,  a  minced  shallot  and  a  glass  of 
any  light  white  wine,  like  chablis,  hock,  or  sauterne,  may 
be  gently  poured  round  your  dish  when  it  is  packed  ready 
for  the  oven  :  but  the  liquid  ought  never  to  come  up  to 
the  level,  quite,  of  the  top  layer  of  the  fish  in  the  pie-dish, 

-    In  connection  with  maccaroni  and  tomatoes,  you  should 
try  a  dusting  of  grated  parmesan. 

Rolled  anchovies,  and  prawns,  form,  with  truffles  and 
mushrooms,  the  most  appropriate  garnish  for   an  artistic 


58  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

"  au  gratin"  and  cream  is  often  judiciously  introduced  to 
enrich  tlie  combination. 

Fishes  carefully  stuffed,  and  baked  Tvhole,  are  generally 
nice  :  it  is  a  method  very  well  suited  to  fresh  water  fish, 
and  a  delicious  way  of  cooking  a  Madi'as  mullet,  or  a  dish 
of  whitings. 

The  best  dish  of  stewed  fish  is  the  "  matelote'  which, 
strictly  speaking,  should  be  composed  of  eels,  but  may,  I 
think,  be  equally  well  followed  in  dressing  any  firm-fleshed 
fish.  As  I  shall  speak  of  this  dish  in  my  menus,  I  need 
only  say  en  passant  that  it  is  rich,  vinous,  spicy,  and  con- 
sequently generally  appreciated  by  the  muscular  Christian. 

Broiling  fish  sounds  simple,  but  under  this  head  there 
are  a  few  toothsome  recipes  not  to  be  despised.  Let  a 
good  cut  of  seer  be  divided  into  nice  cutlets.  Parboil 
them  in  the  morning,  and  set  them  to  marinade  all  day  in 
salad  oil,  minced  shallot,  parsley,  vinegar,  a  clove  of  garlic, 
a  few  whole  pepper  corns,  and  a  little  lime  peel.  Take 
them  out,  wrap  them  with  the  shallot,  &c.,  in  well-oiled 
papers,  broil  over  a  fast  clear  fire,  and  serve  with  a  nice 
sharp  brown  sauce  like  sauce  Robert.  Take  care  that  the 
bars  of  your  grid-iron  are  well  oiled,  for  they  are  apt  to 
burn  delicate  morsels  like  fillets  of  fish  en  papillotes. 

Fish  of  fairly  good  size  can  be  roasted  "  a  la  hroclie^ 
The  method  is  recommended  for  mullet,  murrel,  and  all 
fish  whose  shape  adapts  itself,  as  it  were,  to  the  spit. 
Stuff  the  fish,  wrap  it  in  oiled  paper,  tie  it  to  the  spit,  and 
baste  continually  with  melted  butter  and  white  wine. 
Remove  the  paper  before  serving. 

The  Bouillabaisse  may  be  attempted  at  Madras  with  a 
result  sufiiciently  satisfactory  to  warrant  my  being  bold 
enough  to  record  a  simple  recipe  for  it,  adapted  from  that 
of  the  "  G.  C."  as  follows  :— 


REGARDING   OUR  FISH.  59 

Take  any  sort  of  small  fish,  sucli  as  small  pomfret, 
whitings,  soles,  mullets,  or  robal, — the  greater  the  variety 
the  better, — and  for  two  pounds  of  mixed  fish,  slice  up  two 
Bombay  onions,  two  fairly  large  tomatoes  emptied  of  their 
seeds  and  cut  into  quarters,  and  one  carrot ;  prepare  a 
couple  of  slices  of  lime  with  the  pithy  skin  cut  off,  a  bag 
containing  six  cloves,  a  dozen  pepper  corns,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  and  the  peel  of  a  lime  pared  as  finely  as  possible  ;  a 
salt-spoonful  of  saffron,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  pod 
of  capsicum  sliced,  will  also  be  wanted  :  put  the  whole  into 
a  stew-pan,  and  add  to  it  a  wine-glass  of  salad  oil,  one  of 
chablis,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  water,  boil  for  about 
half  an  hour,  and,  just  before  serving,  add  a  heaped  up 
table-spoonful  of  freshly-chopped  curled  parsley.  The 
parsley  is  absolutely  indispensable.  Serve  the  fish,  in  a 
deep  dish,  with  some  of  the  broth  round  it,  sending  up  the 
rest  of  the  broth  first,  poured  boiling  hot  over  some  slices 
of  stale  bread.  Remove  the  bag  of  condiments,  of  course, 
before  serving  the  houillahaisse.  The  dish  will  not  be  as 
good,  to  be  sure,  as  that  which  some  of  my  readers  may 
have  enjoyed  in  the  south  of  France,  but  if  the  ingi^edients 
I  have  named  be  used  without  any  omissions,  a  very  fair 
imitation  will  certainly  be  produced. 

Having  thus  sketched  the  various  ways  of  preparing  fish 
for  the  table,  I  must  request  my  readers  to  note  the 
recipes  I  have  given  in  my  detailed  menus,  remembering 
that  my  object  has  been  to  suggest  dishes,  which,  in  my 
humble  opinion,  will  be  found  more  pleasing  than  the 
ordinary  plainly  boiled  lumps  of  fish,  which,  with  the 
stereotyped  concomitants,  I  have  so  strenuously  condemned 
too  often  greet  the  diner  out  in  Madras. 


w^^^ 

iMlM 

^^p:ii 

i-?i?N^i^ 

kmm 

^^^>^:| 

OIEI^A^IRTEXe    -XTIII. 


Hints  about  Entrees. 


9^t^>^ 


(j^^TlT^E  persons  out  of  every  ten  with  whom  I  con- 
Ji-\y\  verse  on  culinary  matters  seem  to  be  more  exer- 
cised in  their  minds  regarding  their  entrees  than 
about  the  whole  of  the  arrangements  of  their  dinner  put 
together.  The  really  presentable  side-dishes  that  the 
average  Ramasamy  can  master  may,  as  a  rule,  l)e  counted, 
I  am  told,  upon  the  fingers  of  one  hand :  and  these  are 
generally  so  well  known  that  a  lady  is  oft  times  at  her 
wit's  end  to  compose  her  meyiu.  So  precious,  indeed,  has 
the  knowledge  of  a  new  entree  become,  that  the  happy 
mistress  of  a  novelty  might  be  fairly  excused  were  she  to 
refuse  to  divulge  the  secret  to  her  dearest  friend.  It  must 
be  a  humiliating  sensation,  I  admit,  after  having  eaten 
oyster  patties  with  your  friend  on  Monday,  to  be  forced 
to  bid  him  partake  of  the  same  dish  with  you  on  Thurs- 
day ;  conscious  perhaps,  that  the  pastry  at  your  house  is 
not  a  whit  better  than  that  which  you  thought  so  indiffer- 
ent at  his.  The  oyster  patty,  by  the  way,  is  one  of  Rama- 
samy's  few  art  studies. 

Now,  I  cannot  but  alloAv  that  the  apprehension  with 
which  this  part  of  the  bill-of-fare  is  so  generally  regarded, 
is  well-founded  and  natural.  There  are,  of  course,  entrees 
and  entrees.  Though  a  few  may  be  easy,  some  are  beyond 
our  reach  in  this  country  owing  to  a  variety  of  reasons, 


HINTS  ABOUT  ENTREES.  61 

and  many,  owing  to  the  ambiguous  wording  of  cookery 
book  receipts,  seem  equally  inaccessible.  Then  the  task 
of  ordering  dishes  from  works  composed  for  people  with 
English  cooks,  kitchen  ranges,  and  the  best  market  in  the 
world  at  their  disposal,  is  far  from  easy.  Even  those  who 
fancy  themselves  to  be  pretty  good  cooks  find,  every  now 
and  then,  in  the  pages  of  their  pet  author,  knotty  points 
which  require  much  consideration  to  settle.  But  if  you 
will  patiently  follow  me,  not  rushing  to  the  conclusion 
that  I  only  write  for  the  benefit  of  a  few  enthusiasts  like 
myself,  I  firmly  believe  that  I  shall  be  able  to  smooth 
down  much  that  appears  rugged ;  and  help  you  towards 
the  selection  and  accomplishment  of  many  tasty  dishes, 
which,  if  neither  elaborate,  nor  very  scientific,  will  still  be 
found  practicable,  and  generally  worthy  of  a  second  trial. 

First,  let  us  divide  entrees  into  three  distinct  classes  : — 
the  plain,  the  half -rich,  and  the  fanciful. 

In  the  first  class  I  would  place  such  dishes  as  the 
mutton  cutlet  (neck  chop)  grilled,  fried,  or  stewed ;  the 
epigramme  ;  fillets  of  meat,  turkey,  fowl,  rabbit,  or  pigeon  ; 
grenadins ;  entrees  of  meat,  that  is  to  say,  plainly  cooked, 
accompanied  by  carefully  devised  sauces,  or  really  good 
purees  of  vegetable. 

For  class  the  second,  I  would  reserve  all  compositions 
of  meat  requiring  the  mincing  machine  and  the  mortar, — ■ 
delicate  combinations  which  demand  attentive  flavouring — ■ 
such  as  cassolettes,  croquettes,  croustades,  quenelles,  boudms, 
timbales,  rissolettes  and  mixed  ingredients  en  caisses. 

Whilst  in  the  superlative  class  should  be  entered,  I 
think,  the  supreme,  the  vol-au-vent,  the  hramoushy,  the 
studied  ragout,  the  artistic  salmis,  and  any  entree  out  of 
class  the  second  when  raised  from  its  ordinary  form  to  a 
higher  level  by  treatment  a  la  financiere,  a  la  ReinCj  d  la 
Perigueux,  and  so  on. 

6 


62  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Quite  in  a  special  parenthesis  by  themselves  onght  to 
be  kept  all  plats  which  can  be  served  cold,  such  as  the 
chaud-froid,  chartreuse,  petits  galantines,  truffled  cutlets, 
(fee,  for  in  a  climate  such  as  this  an  iced  entree  cannot  fail 
to  attract  attention,  whilst  for  providing  contrast,  and 
other  reasons,  I  shall  speak  of  presently,  it  is  invaluable. 

Having  thus  arranged  the  various  dishes  which  come 
"Binder  the  head  of  entrees  in  a  systematic  form,  the  task  of 
selection  therefrom  must  be  governed  by  the  sort  of 
dinner  you  intend  to  give,  the  different  items  that  compose 
your  menu,  and  the  capabilities  of  your  cook.  As  a  rule, 
you  should  generally,  for  the  sake  of  contrast,  select  one 
dish  from  class  one,  and  the  other  from  either  class  two, 
or  three ;  or  an  iced  entree  followed  by  one  from  either 
of  the  two  richer  classes. 

I  have  already  advised  you  never  to  attempt  to  give 
more  than  two  entrees,  and  I  repeat  the  advice  now,  be 
your  dinner  a  banquet  for  forty  covers,  or  a  party  of  eight 
friends.  The  menu  of  the  best  mess  dinner  I  ever  attend- 
ed in  India  (given  to  a  late  Governor  of  Madras  whose 
taste  in  culinary  matters  was  proverbial)  contained  but 
one  iced,  and  one  elaborate  entree.  These  were,  of  course, 
served  separately,  and  to  provide  against  delay,  there 
were  (for  forty  guests)  four  dishes  formed  of  each  compo- 
sition. 

In  ordering  your  entrees,  you  should  carefully  consider 
the  amount  of  work  your  cook  will  have  upon  his  hands  at 
the  critical  time  of  serving  them,  and  bear  in  mind  that  the 
more  he  has  to  do  then,  the  more  likely  will  he  be  to  make 
mistakes.  Is  it  not  unfair  to  expect  your  cook  to  serve 
ewqually  well  two  hot  entrees  demanding  attentive  manipula- 
tion up  to  the  last  moment  ?  Select,  therefore,  for  one  of 
jour  side-dishes  something  that  can  be  prepared  before- 
hand, and  be  easily  heated  when  required,  so  that  your 


HINTS  ABOUT  ENTREES.  63 

chefs  attention  need  not  be  distracted  from  tlie  other.  On 
these  grounds  the  iced  entree  is  a  grand  invention.  It  can 
be  made  early  in  the  day,  and  then  set  in  the  ice-box, 
ready  to  follow  the  fish  or  releve,  as  the  case  may  be,  with- 
out delay,  and  the  sauce  can  also  be  similarly  treated. 
Dishes  that  merely  require  heating  in  the  oven  are  a  god- 
send to  a  cook,  for  he  can  compose  them  at  his  leisure 
during  the  afternoon,  and  put  them  aside  till  within  a  few 
minutes  of  the  time  when  they  are  wanted,  keeping  their 
sauces  nice  and  hot  in  the  bain-marie  pan.  But  the  un- 
happy man  who  has  (say)  to  turn  out  a  delicately  grilled 
dish  of  cutlets  a  la  Maintenon,  with  Jcramoushys  aux  JiuUres 
to  follow — independently  of  game,  joint,  sweets,  &c.,  all 
needing  a  watchful  eye — is  surely  to  be  pitied. 

There  is  another  point  to  watch  when  choosing  your 
entrees,  and  that  is  their  general  relationship  with  each 
other,  or  with  the  other  dishes  that  compose  your  menu. 
Artists  in  ordering  dinners  go  as  far  as  to  say  that  nothing 
should  be  repeated.  You  must  not  give,  for  instance,  a 
consomme  de  volaille,  and  presently  follow  it  with  croquettes 
de  volaille,  or  even  fowl  as  a  rot.  Mutton  appearing  in  a 
side-dish  must  not  be  seen  again  in  any  form.  Two  white 
meats  ought  not  to  be  introduced  side  by  side.  Though 
following  this  maxim  to  the  best  of  our  power,  we  cannot 
always  rely  on  being  able  to  carry  it  out  thoroughly  in 
Madras.  The  market  supply  is  alas  !  too  meagTC,  as  a 
rule,  for  us  to  pick  and  choose  as  we  might  wish. 

To  return  to  our  class  list  of  entrees,  I  cannot  too  strongly 
urge  you  to  go  in  for  dishes  from  class  one  more  than 
you  do.  Can  anything  be  more  acceptable  than  a  nice 
juicy  little  chop  from  a  necJc  of  mutton,  on  whose  sides 
the  marks  of  the  grid-iron  are  plainly  visible,  reposing 
against  a  circle  of  really  well-mashed  potatoes,  or  of 
savoury  rice,  holding  in  its  centre  a  puree  of  celery,  petits 
pois,  or  sauce  souhise  ?     The  grid-iron  is  invaluable  :  the 


64  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

chop  comes  to  table  full  of  gravy,  yet  not  underdone  ;  it 
has,  to  use  a  kitchen  phrase,  "  seen  the  fire"  (browned)  in 
places,  and  is  absolutely  free  from  the  grease  which  so 
often  mars  a  dish  of  chops  cooked  in  the  frying  pan.  For 
the  little  Club-dinner,  this  class  of  entree  is  always  popular. 
I  noticed  that  a  plain  cutlet  such  as  I  have  described,  or  a 
plain  fillet  of  beef,  figured  in  almost  every  Club  menu,  I 
had  the  pleasure  of  discussing  when  last  at  home.  Plea- 
sing variety  can  be  secured  by  the  cook  if  he  will  change 
his  sauce,  or  his  puree.  Choose  the  nech  chops  for  these 
entrees. 

The  fillet  of  mutton  is  that  tender  strip  of  meat  which 
runs  down  the  inside  of  the  saddle  under  the  kidney.  If 
of  sufficient  thickness,  this  delicate  morsel,  cut  into  nice 
pieces,  and  broiled  over  a  clear  fire,  is  worthy  of  Lucullus 
himself.  It  is  the  thing  for  an  invalid,  or  one  coming 
round  after  an  illness. 

The  fillet  of  beef  is  the  undercut  of  the  sirloin,  which 
the  butcher  will  cut  out  for  you  in  the  market  here  if  you 
wish  it.  But  I  have  found  good  fillets  produced  thus  : — 
Buy  a  really  good  joint  of  the  ribs  of  beef,  and  cut  out 
lengthways  the  good  tender  meat  near  the  end  of  the 
bone,  with  any  fat  there  may  be  attached  to  it.  Bones, 
and  flap,  and  trimmings  can  be  counted  in  the  allowance 
of  gravy-meat,  and  the  tender  meat  you  have  cut  out  will 
trim  into  capital  fillets /or  entrees,  or  cook  whole  as  du  filet 
de  boeuf  pique,  aux  champignons,  au  puree  d'oseille,  S^c,  as  a 
relet' e. 

Fillets  of  fowls  and  game  are  formed  by  cutting  oft' 
neatly  the  whole  of  the  breast  meat  right  down  to  the 
wing  joint ;  this  you  can  divide  into  fillets  according  to  the 
size  you  requii'e. 

The  hare  and  rabbit  fillet  is  produced  by  cutting  out 
the  long  strip  of  good  meat  which  runs  down  either  side 


HINTS  ABOUT  ENTREES.  65 

of  the  back  bone.  Well  larded  with  fat  bacon,  and 
cooked  grenadin-ioo^hion,  with  Espagnole,  or  sauce  souhise, 
you  may  do  worse  than  present  a  dish  of  these  fillets  to 
your  best  friend. 

Whether  your  entree  be  a  fillet  of  beef  or  mutton,  of 
fowl  or  of  game,  or  the  neatly  trimmed  neck  chop  to 
which  I  have  alluded  ;  and  whether  yon  intend  to  grill,  to 
stew,  or  to  fry  it,  you  will  find  it  vastly  improved  by 
being  set  en  marinade  from  early  morning  until  the  time 
draws  near  for  cooking  it.  I  shall  use  this  word  frequently 
in  my  menus,  let  me  therefore  explain  its  meaning  as 
applied  to  the  process  which  I  now  take  the  opportunity 
of  noticing. 

The  word  marinade,  as  you  all  know,  really  means 
pickle,  but  viewed  in  the  light  in  which  we  now  regard  it, 
it  would  be  better  to  describe  it  as  a  mixture,  the  com- 
ponent parts  of  which  can  be  varied  at  pleasure,  in  which 
meat  should  be  soaked  for  several  hours  before  it  is  cooked. 
Its  immediate  effect  is  to  preserve  the  outside  of  the  meat 
which  has  "  felt  the  knife"  moist  and  juicy,  to  prevent  its 
"  turning,"  and  to  lend  that  subtle  flavour  to  it — so  hard 
to  describe — but  which  just  makes  the  difference  between 
our  ordinary  cutlet,  and  that  which  we  remember  having 
eaten  at  some  restaurant  abroad,  or  at  the  table  of  a  friend 
who  possessed  a  really  well  educated  cook. 

The  common  form  of  marinade  for  beef  and  mutton  is 
composed  of  salad  oil  and  vinegar  in  the  proportion  of  four 
of  the  former  to  one  of  the  latter,  with  one  large  Bombay 
onion  sliced,  one  clove  of  garlic  chopped  up,  twelve  whole 
peppers,  six  cloves,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  couple  of  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  dried  thyme  or  marjoram,  a  table-spoonful  of 
minced  parsley,  and  a  strip  or  two  of  very  finely  pared 
lime  peel.  This  mixture  can  be  preserved  for  daily  use, 
with  slight  additions  from  time  to  time,  and  the  flavour 


66  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

can  be  modified  by  changing  the  sweet  herbs,  or  with- 
drawing them. 

The  taste  of  game  can  be  imparted  to  cold,  cooked 
mutton  by  placing  the  meat  in  a  marinade  composed  of  a 
wine-glass  each  of  vinegar,  portwine,  and  mushroom 
ketchup  in  which  a  table-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly  has 
been  dissolved  ;  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  "  spiced  pepper," 
some  pepper  corns,  salt,  a  chopped  onion,  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  marjoram  and  thyme  blended.  A  hash  of  cold 
mutton  collops  that  have  lain  a  few  hours  in  this  prepara- 
tion is  very  like  that  of  venison,  and  the  fillets  of  an 
Indian  hare,  (a  little  underdone  in  the  roasting)  similarly 
steeped  all  day,  are  really  excellent.  In  this  particular 
instance  you  must  strain  the  marinade,  and  add  it  to  the 
thick  gravy  in  which  the  hash  or  fillets  have  to  be 
simmered. 

Marinade  need  not  be  made  in  extravagant  quantities. 
It  should  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  on  which  you  place 
the  meat,  your  object  being  gained  by  occasional  turning, 
and  basting.  When  wanted,  the  cook  should  lift  the  meat 
from  the  dish,  let  it  drain  a  minute  or  so,  and  then  pro- 
ceed to  business. 

Independently  of  the  method  in  which  you  purpose  to 
cook  them,  a  gi^eat  deal  depends  upon  the  careful  trimming 
of  a  dish  of  mutton  cutlets.  How  uninviting  do  these 
miniature  chops  look  when  they  have  been  cut  anyhow 
from  the  joint  to  which  they  belonged  ?  First,  saw  off 
the  ends  of  the  row  of  bones  level,  and  cut  off  the  outer 
flap ;  now  take  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  divide  the  row  of 
cutlets  down  to  the  bone  with  one  clean  decided  cut  between 
each  of  them,  and,  lastly,  sever  them  with  a  single  stroke 
of  the  chopper.  Now,  lay  them  on  your  board,  and  give 
them  a  few  strokes  with  your  cutlet  bat,  trim  them  into 
shape,  and  then  place  them  in  the  marinade.     The  hungry 


HINTS  ABOUT  ENTREES.  67 

man  may  be  able,  no  doubt,  to  eat  the  cutlets  his  cook  may 
send  him,  "  rough  hew  them  as  he  may,"  but  for  an  entree^ 
we  must  study  appearance. 

Little  paper  frills  placed  round  the  ends  of  the  bones  of 
the  cutlets  before  serving,  give  a  finish  to  your  entree. 

A  cutlet  to  be  grilled  should  be  dipped  at  once  in  a  little 
melted  butter,  or  salad  oil,  and  broiled  over  a  clear  fire. 
If  to  be  stewed,  it  should  be  first  browned  by  being  turned 
frequently  in  a  satt^^e-pan  with  a  little  melted  butter  ;  the 
previously  prepared  gravy  and  vegetables  should  then  be 
put  into  the  stew-pan,  in  which  the  cutlet  should  simmer 
gently  till  done.  The  whole  success  of  a  stew  depends 
upon  simmering.  If  the  cook  carelessly  allow  the  gravy 
in  the  pan  to  come  to  the  boil,  the  cutlets  (or  anything 
else)  will  be  done  for. 

How  often  are  hashes,  and  rechauffes  of  cold  meat  sent 
to  table  as  hard  and  tasteless  as  leather,  simply  because 
the  cook  permitted  them  to  boil  ?  Hashes  and  salmis  of 
cold  meat  and  game  may  be  defined,  properly  speaking, 
as  carefully  composed  sauces  in  which  meat  is  placed 
cold,  and  then  gradually  heated  until  sufficiently  hot  to 
serve.  My  own  rule  with  a  salmis  is  to  take  it  off  the  fire 
as  soon  as  the  steam  rises  freely  from  the_ surface,  to  turn 
it  immediately  into  a  silver  dish  heated  with  scalding 
water,  and  send  it  up. 

Hashes  and  salmis  are  much  improved  if  the  cold  meat 
composing  them  be  soaked  in  the  sauce  for  some  time 
before  cooking. 

The  process  of  bread-crumbing  a  cutlet  deserves  far  more 
care  than  a  great  majority  of  cooks  bestow  upon  it.  To  do 
this  really  nicely  (for  an  entree),  you  should  proceed  in  this 
way.  Lift  your  cutlet  from  the  marinade,  drain  it  a 
moment,  then  dip  it  into  the  following  composition : — two 
eggs,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  and  one  dessert- 


68  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

spoonful  of  water,  well  beaten  together.  Then  tnrn  it 
over  and  over  in  a  plateful  of  fine,  stale  bread-crumbs 
which  have  been  dried  in  the  oven,  pounded,  and  thoroughly 
sifted.  It  should  then  be  laid  aside  for  half  an  hour,  after 
which  it  should  be  dipped  again,  and  again  rolled  in 
crumbs.  Amongst  the  crumbs  may  be  sprinkled  some 
finely-minced  parsley  and  shallot,  with  s^ovae  poicdered  dried 
sweet  herbs,  and  grated  cheese  is  sometimes  added  with 
marked  effect.  The  frying  should  be  conducted  in  abund- 
ance of  boiling  fat,  and  the  colour  of  the  cutlets  should  be 
a  pale  golden  brown. 

All  thrifty  cooks  should  carefully  save  the  scraps  of 
trimmings,  the  outer  flap,  and  the  ends  of  bone,  which 
were  cut  off  in  shaping  the  cutlets,  for  from  them  the  basis 
of  the  sauce  which  is  to  accompany  the  dish  can,  with  u 
little  assistance,  be  composed. 

Veal  is  occasionally  procurable  at  Madras.  If  you  suc- 
ceed in  getting  a  nice  dish  of  cutlets,  remember  that  it  is 
downright  necessary  to  lard  them  with  strips  of  fat  bacon. 
Veal  is  apt  to  be  dry  in  England  where  the  calf  is  fattened 
for  the  market.  In  India  it  is  far  drier,  and  if  cooked 
without  the  assistance  of  bacon,  veal  cutlets  are  positively 
wooden. 

N.B. — Let  the  sauce  prepared  for  your  entree  of  cutlets 
be  sent  round,  piping  hot,  in  a,  boat.  If  poured  round  the 
cutlets,  it  makes  them  sodden,  and  loses  its  effect  entirely. 


cd:ei:j^:e"T':e:t^    x:^^. 


Entrees— concluded. 


jTrt  TAYING  discussed  the  general  methods  of  cooking 
(il'JL  cutlets,  and  fillets,  we  ought  next  to  consider  a  few 
good  sauces  to  accompany  them,  but  as  I  have 
resolved  to  devote  a  chapter  to  that  branch  of  the  cook's 
art,  I  must  ask  you  to  follow  me  now  in  a  brief  resume  of 
wrinkles  regarding  the  higher  classes  of  entrees. 

Under  class  the  second  we  come  to  that  very  useful 
style  of  entree  which  I  have  called  the  "  half -rich."  For 
these  "  made-dishes"  you  begin  to  call  to  youi'  aid  the 
mincing  machine  and  mortar,  and,  unless  your  experience 
be  above  the  average,  success  will  almost  wholly  depend 
upon  your  following  with  accuracy  every  line  of  the  recipe 
you  may  select.  A  well-flavoured  cassolette,  croquette, 
houdin,  or  quenelle,  if  nicely  cooked,  and  served  with  a  good 
sauce,  a  puree,  or  a  macSdoine  de  legumes,  is  worthy  of 
a  place  in  any  menu ;  but  the  slightest  slovenly  work  is 
fatal. 

Our  good  friend  Ramasamy  has  been  taught  to  believe 
that  cutlets  must  be  composed  of  chopped  meats,  so  he 
often  sends  to  table  under  that  title  a  dish  of  croquettes, 
with  a  fragment  of  bone  inserted  in  each  of  them.  I  need 
hardly  remind  my  readers,  for  instance,  of  the  dish  of 
"  chicken  cutlets"  which  forms  the  standing  plat  of  the 


70  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Madras  Hotel.  I  know  that  some  cookery  books  describe 
as  cotelettes,  certain  artistic  mixtures  of  meats,  with  bits 
of  bone  introduced  to  make  them  look  like  true  cutlets, 
but  I  would  prefer  omitting  the  bones,  and  calling  such 
dishes  by  theii-  proper  names,  for  they  undoubtedly  belong 
really  to  the  tribe  of  croquettes,  houdins,  ^c. 

Chicken,  ox  and  sheep's  tongues,  tender  mutton,  ham, 
bacon,  oysters,  pigeons,  turkey,  rabbit,  the  livers  of  all 
poultry,  of  rabbits,  and  game, — whether  previously  cooked 
or  not, — provide  materials  out  of  which  these  entrees  can 
be  made.  It  is  in  the  judicious  blending  of  two  or  more 
of  them  together,  in  the  thorough  pounding  and  incorpo- 
ration thereof,  in  the  selection  of  the  condiments  he  em- 
ploys to  improve  them,  and  so  on,  that  the  skill  of  the 
good  cook  can  be  detected. 

If  you  preserve  your  own  ox  tongues  in  this  country, 
and  keep  one  generally  ready  for  use,  you  will  have  a 
very  valuable  thing  to  fall  back  upon  for  "  made"  entrees. 
Cured  sheep's  tongues,  too,  are  very  useful,  and  a  little 
lamVs  liver  is  sometimes  a  good  thing  to  have  at  hand  in 
case  of  need. 

Calves'  liver  cut  into  dice,  and  fried  with  some  shallot 
in  the  pan  in  which  some  fat  bacon  has  been  melted,  then 
set  to  get  cold,  and  pounded  in  the  mortar  with  some  cold 
veal,*  forms  the  well-known  minced  meat  which  surrounds 
a.  pate  defoie  grr as  and  all  French  pates.  The  frying-pan 
should  be  rubbed  with  garlic  before  operations  are  com- 
menced, and  the  minced  onion  must  go  in  with  the  liver. 
If  you  add  to  the  mixture  when  pounded  the  minced  trim- 
mings of  any  truffles  you  may  have  been  using,  the  flavour 
will  be  exactly  that  of  the  pate.  A  little  jar  of  this  com- 
position, made  at  home,  will  be  found   well  worth   the 

*  Use  the  white  breast-meat  of  a  cold  roast  chicken  if  you  cannot 
get  veal  iu  this  country.  The  melted  bacon  must  be  pounded  with 
the  liver. — W. 


ENTREES— CONCLUDED.  71 

trouble  it  costs  to  make,  when  you  are  preparing  (say)  a 
dish  of  croqiiettes  de  volaille  and  want  to  improve  the 
flavour  of  them. 

The  hints  I  have  already  given  regarding  the  bread- 
crumbing  of  mutton  cutlets,  hold  good  with  reference  to 
the  crumbing  of  croquettes.  If  possible,  indeed,  you  should 
be  more  particular  in  preparing  your  crumbs.  Bread 
crisped  in  the  oven  and  then  pounded  in  the  mortar  pro- 
duces the  chapelure  used  by  French  cooks. 

The  sauces  that  should  accompany  this  kind  of  entree 
require  the  utmost  study,  and  will  be  treated  of  here- 
after. 

Rissoles,  and  rissolettes  are  very  tasty  if  well  done,  and 
served  hot.  They  may  be  described  as  a  savoury  salpicon, 
or  mince,  divided  into  small  portions,  each  of  which  should 
be  enclosed  in  little  wrappers  of  delicate  pastry  :  these, 
pinched  closely  all  round,  should  be  fried  a  golden  yellow 
in  abundance  of  boiling  fat.  They  are  then  served  dry  on 
a  napkin,  garnished  with  crisply  fried  curled  parsley. 

Cassolettes  are  little  drums  of  potato  or  rice,  hollowed 
out,  filled  with  a  delicate  mince,  and  capped  with  either 
a  cover  made  of  the  same  substance  as  the  case,  or  with  a 
curl  of  crisply  fried  bacon,  a  turned  olive,  or  a  slice  of 
truffle. 

Boudins  are  preparations  of  pounded  meats  steamed,  and 
quenelles  somewhat  similar  in  composition  but  poached. 

Recipes  will  be  found  for  each  of  these  methods  of 
cookery  in  the  menus. 

Touching  the  highest  class  of  entrees,  it  is  impossible  to 
say  very  much  in  the  way  of  advice.  You  must  submit  to 
a  little  more  expense  than  you  did  in  classes  one  and  two. 
Butter,  cream,  truffles,  mushrooms,  special  gravy  meat, 
Ac,  must  not  be  shirked,  but  be  given  to  the  cook  with  a 


72  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

liberal  hand.  As  your  Gouffe  bids  you,  so  must  you 
proceed  without  a  murmur. 

We  do  our  utmost  to  give  our  guests,  here  in  sultry 
Madras,  a  vol-au-vent,  when  we  should  know  quite  well 
that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  produce,  in  a  temperature 
that  rarely  falls  below  80  ° ,  the  exquisitely  light  puff  pastry 
from  which  the  dish  derives  its  name.  The  best  attempts 
present  the  appearance  of  layers  of  talc  laid  one  over  the 
other  in  an  oval-shape  and  baked  a  pale  brown.  Now,  I 
maintain  that  it  would  be  better  to  give  up  our  fruitless 
efforts,  and  employ  one  of  the  ornamental  earthenware 
dishes  made  specially  for  this  purpose,  and  to  be  had  of 
all  good  dealers  in  glass  and  crockery  in  London.  Small 
ones  for  dishes  en  caisses  are  also  sold.  We  could  then 
send  up  oui'  ragout  a  la  financier e,  or  a  la  reine,  without 
misgivings,  in  a  pretty  dish  becomingly  garnished,  and 
bury  the  unhappy  memories  of  the  light  puff  paste  we 
never  could  achieve. 

But  whilst  thus  proposing  to  abandon  as  fruitless  our 
attempts  to  place  before  our  guests  a  true  vol-au-vent, — 
conquered  by  the  climate  in  which  we  live,  and  not  through 
carelessness  or  want  of  culinary  skill, — I,  by  no  means,  wish 
to  say  that  we  should  cease  to  bestow  our  attention  upon 
entrees  which  can  be  made  of  pastry  of  a  less  volatile  nature. 
There  are  some  Madras  cooks,  I  know,  who  can  turn  out 
very  good  light  pate  pastry.  To  such  men  you  can  entrust, 
of  course,  petits  pates,  timhales,  salpicon  honchees,  and  those 
artistic  croustades  for  which  pastry  is  employed  instead  of 
the  easier  substitute  of  hollowed-out  rolls.  The  knack  of 
making  nice  light  pastry  is,  however,  far  from  common. 
Neither  reading,  nor  even  practical  demonstration,  will 
teach  it.  So  unless  you  are  certain  that  your  cook 
possesses  the  gift,  never  permit  him  to  waste  good  mate- 
rials in  idle  experiments.  An  entree  of  pastry,  if  not 
unmistakably  good,  is  a  blot  upon  the  face  of  your  menti. 


ENTREES-  CONCL  UDED.  73 

In  nearly  all  recipes  for  tlie  sauces  of  high  class  entrees 
contained  in  good  works  upon  cookery,  the  use  of  butter  is 
unsparingly  advocated,  and  cream  is  also  very  frequently 
prescribed.  In  an  early  chapter  of  my  jottings,  I  men- 
tioned that  I  would  far  sooner  recommend  a  little  extra 
expense  with  regard  to  these  items,  than  in  the  wholesale 
distribution  of  "  Europe  stores."  I  repeat  the  opinion 
emphatically  now.  The  dinner  cooked  with  an  adequate 
allowance  of  cream  and  butter,  requires  but  little  aid  from 
Messrs.  Crosse  and  Blackwell.  Unfortunately,  however, 
for  those  who  desii^e  to  follow  this  precept  at  Madras,  our 
supply  of  milk  is  meagre  in  quality  and  quantity,  and 
absui'dly  expensive. 

The  only  way  to  obtain  a  little  butter  fit  to  eat,  if  you 
do  not  maintain  a  dairy  of  your  own,  is  to  have  a  cow 
milked  at  your  door,  and  to  set  the  milk  so  obtained  for 
cream  in  your  own  larder.  I  have  never  tried  to  find  out 
the  exact  cost  of  a  pound  of  butter  thus  made,  but,  ap- 
proximately speaking,  it  may  be  stated  that  five  measures 
of  milk  at  one  rupee  (the  current  rate)  will  not  yield  more 
than  a  good  tliird  of  a  pound,  so  your  pound  of  butter  will 
cost  you  neai'ly  three  rupees  !*  There  will  be  a  slight 
difference  if  the  milk  be  rich  ;  in  my  estimate,  I  speak,  of 
course,  of  the  average  country  cow's  milk  purchased  at  the 
door. 

There  is  a  terrible  preparation  which  milkmen  sell  to  our 
cooks  under  the  title  of  "  kitchen  butter."  To  add  to  its 
attractiveness,  it  is  generally  smeared  upon  a  leaf,  and 
carried  in  the  hand  !  It  looks  like  the  compound  used  for 
greasing  the  wheels  of  railway  carriages  in  England,  which 
a  porter  once  told  a  friend  of  mine  was  "  mostly  made  of 
ingredunts,  and  stuff  as  ive  makes  up  a^purpose."     I  fear 

*  Milk  has  become  a  little  cheaper  since  this  was  written,  but  the 
difficulty  regarding  butter  and  cream  seems  in  no  way  removed. — W. 

7 


74  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

that  oiir   so-called   "  kitclien   butter"   migHt   be   equally 
vaguely  described. 

What,  then,  can  people  of  moderate  incomes  do  ?  For, 
I  take  it  that  even  wealthy  folk  at  home  would  hesitate  to 
pay  six  shillings  a  pound  for  the  butter  used  by  their  cooks  ! 
The  most  economical  remedy  for  this  evil  is  to  use  preserved 
butter.  The  "Copenhagen"  (cow  brand),  "  Normandy," 
and  "  Denmark,"  at  one  rupee  fourteen  annas  a  pound-tin, 
are  especially  free  from  brine,  or  taint  of  any  kind,  and 
can  be  thoroughly  recommended.  One  tin,  carefully  used, 
ought  to  suffice  for  the  cooking  of  a  dinner  for  eight  per- 
sons, (assuming  even  that  the  meniL  contain  a  full  amount 
of  dishes  requiring  butter  in  their  composition)  and,  in  my 
humble  opinion,  the  result  will  generally  be  found  to 
justify  that  amount  of  extravagance. 

Before  I  pass  from  the  consideration  of  side-dishes  to 
that  of  the  sauces  that  should  accompany  them,  I  feel  it 
incumbent  upon  me  to  repeat  that  vegetables  ought  never  to 
he  handed  round  U'ith  the  entrees.  This  quaint  practice  of 
our  fore-fathers  has  been  long  since  abandoned  by  those 
who  give  dinners  of  the  reformed  type. 

The  modem  entree  is,  of  course,  presumed  to  be  ?i  plat 
complete  in  itself,  and  perfectly  independent  of  other  as- 
sistance. When  stated  in  the  menu,  a  vegetable  may,  of 
course,  accompany,  an  entree  but  it  should  be  deftly  associat- 
ed with  the  composition  it  accompanies,  and  be  moulded  in 
the  same  dish.  A  great  many  entrees  require  no  vegetables. 
Who,  for  instance,  could  possibly  eat  potato  and  cauliflower, 
with  a  hramousky,  or  with  a  petit  pate  a  la  financiere  ? 
The  crisp  batter  in  the  former,  and  the  pastry  in  the  latter 
case,  supply  the  necessary  accompaniment  of  the  delicate 
composition  each  contains. 

Apart  from  its  being  palpably  inartistic,  there  are  other 
reasons  which  prompt  the  abolition  of  sending  round  vege- 


ENTREES— CONCL  UDED.  75 

tables  with  entrees.  I  refer  to  the  time  that  is  wasted  in 
doing  so,  and  the  complication  it  adds  to  the  service. 
Whilst  the  matter-of-fact  objection  to  the  practice  is,  that 
by  the  time  they  are  really  wanted  for  the  joint,  vegetables 
that  have  been  hawked  about  with  the  entrees  are  cer- 
tainly mangled  and  cold,  if  not  wholly  expended ;  for  few 
people  prepare  relays  of  potatoes,  &c.j  to  follow  those  sent 
up  with  their  side-dishes. 

Lastly,  let  me  say  a  few  words  about  the  garnishing 
and  helping  of  entrees. 

As  a  general  rule,  our  native  cooks,  assisted  I  dare  say 
by  the  butler,  are  much  given  to  the  ornamentation  of 
their  side-dishes.  Now,  whilst  fully  prepared  to  pander 
as  much  as  possible  to  the  "  lust  of  the  eye,"  I  warn  you 
to  be  careful  lest  these  efforts  to  make  things  look  pretty 
be  overdone.  Slices  of  raw  cucumber  should  be  severely 
interdicted,  for  they  impart  an  inky  flavour  to  the  entree 
round  which  they  may  be  trimmed;  and  funny  devices 
cut  out  of  vegetables,  and  dotted  about  a  dish,  should  be 
forbidden,  for  they  suggest  to  the  hypercritical  mind  an 
idea  that  perhaps  fingers  have  been  busily  employed  in 
arranging  them. 

Pray  do  not  permit  your  cook  to  garnish  a  croquette 
with  a  raw  spring  onion, — the  green  stem  stripped  and 
curled,  and  the  bulb  thrust  into  the  croquette.  I  have 
actually  seen  this  done,  and  once  upon  a  time  barely 
escaped  eating  tlie  onion.,  which  would  have  been  a  sad 
catastrophe,  seeing  that  I  had  a  most  agreeable  companion 
by  my  side.  Let  the  arrangement  of  your  entrees  err  on 
the  side  of  simplicity  rather  than  otherwise. 

To  look  effective,  entrees  should  be  arranged  well  above 
the  level  of  silver  dish  upon  which  they  are  served.  To 
attain  this  end,  the  French  c/ie/ prepares  a  socle  or  founda- 
tion which  he  makes  out  of  a  solid  block  of  bread,  or 


76  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

ground-rice  moulded  :  socles  for  cold  entrees  are  even  some- 
times made  of  melted  wax  candle  consolidated  with  bees' 
wax.  A  flat  socle  for  ordinary  hot  entrees  is  easily  made 
with  rice,  which  should  be  boiled,  pounded,  and  then 
moulded  with  a  wooden  spoon  into  an  oval  or  round  block 
according  to  the  shape  of  the  dish.  When  moulded,  it 
should  be  bmshed  over  with  Q^g  and  colored  in  the  oven. 
For  cold  entrees,  spread  the  block  over  with  fresh  buttei-. 
Having  thus  obtained  a  firm  foundation,  the  entree  itself 
becomes,  as  it  were,  a  superstructure  erected  upon  the 
socle.  Nothing  looks  more  slovenly  than  an  entree  arranged 
on  the  level  of  the  dish  itself. 

Dishes  that  require  careful  helping  ought  certainly 
never  to  be  handed  round  at  a  dinner  party.  I  have 
observed  that  ladies  frequently  refuse  an  entree  on  account 
of  the  difficulty  of  helping  themselves.  A  fair  patroness 
of  mine  whose  menage  is  worthy  of  her  artistic  skill,  tells 
me  that  she  has  made  up  her  mind  (and  rightly,  say  I,) 
never  to  permit  her  admirable  mayonnaise  d,  la  Gouffe  to  be 
handed  round  to  her  guests  again.  One  person,  she  says, 
would  take  a  little  of  the  aspic,  the  next  some  of  the  salad, 
the  third — engaged,  perhaps,  in  pleasant  chatter,  with  a 
pair  of  bright  eyes  full  upon  him — might  absently  secure 
a  fragment  of  the  garnish !  and  so  on,  all  in  heart-rending 
ignorance  of  the  science  and  care  bestowed  upon  the  dish. 

In  any  circumstances  I  strongly  recommend  that  all 
iced  entrees  be  helped  from  the  side  table,  with  a  portion 
of  the  sauce  upon  each  plate,  and  passed  round  to  your 
guests  without  delay.  For,  in  a  climate  as  warm  as  this, 
speedy  helping  at  the  side  table  will  prevent  the  possible 
contingency  of  liquefaction.  Indeed  all  entrees  might  be 
thus  served  with  manifest  advantage.  The  menu  card  in 
front  of  yon  tells  you  what  is  coming,  and  in  this  way  you 
would  be  spared,  at  all  events,  the  unpleasantness  of  having 


ENTREES—CONCL  UDED. 


77 


a  hot  silver  dish  with  its  savoury  contents  thrust  in  between 
you  and  the  lady  you  have  taken  in  to  dinner  ;  conversation 
would  never  be  annoyingly  interrupted ;  pretty  costumes 
and  dress  coats  would  be  less  liable  to  be  baptized  with  hot 
gravy,  whilst  much  valuable  time  would  be  saved= 


oxacA-T^TEi^  :r^. 


Sauces. 

fHE  consideration  of  sauces  may  certainly  be  rcGfarded 
as  the  most  interesting  part  of  the  study  of  cookery. 
So  much,  indeed,  is  to  be  gained  by  this  branch  of 
the  art,  that  I  might  almost  call  it  the  most  important. 
Whether  for  fish,  for  flesh,  or  fowl,  the  assistance  thus  con- 
tributed is  invaluable.  "Without  penetrating  very  deeply 
into  the  mazes  of  elaborate  cookery,  if  you  once  master  tho 
broad  principles  of  sauce-making,  you  need  never  be  at  a 
loss  for  variety  in  your  dishes  ;  you  will  be  able  to  improve 
good  meat,  and  make  that  which  is  indifferent  palatable  ; 
whilst  with  cold  things  you  will  rarely  fail  to  turn  out  little 
rechauffes  which  will  be  at  once  tasty,  and  economical. 

Now,  I  do  not  consider  it  a  difficult  thing  to  teach  a 
native  cook  the  fundamental  rules  of  this  part  of  his  work, 
for  they  are  simple.  The  labour  is  so  slight  that,  if  suffi- 
ciently devoted  to  your  task,  you  can  select  a  recipe  and 
absolutely  show  the  man  step  by  step  how  to  carry  it  out. 
For  a  demonstration  of  this  kind,  you  must,  of  course, 
order  all  the  ingredients  you  may  require  beforehand,  and 
have  a  mineral  oil-stove,  or  brazier  of  charcoal,  brought 
into  a  sheltered  verandah,  or  spare  room.  The  trouble 
this  may  cost  you  will,  in  nine  cases  out  of  ten,  be  amply 
repaid,  for  with  the  native  mind  practical  proof  is  far  more 
effective  than  theoretical  discussion. 


SAUCES.  79 


For  sauce-making,  in  general,  you  must  possess  four  or 
fire  small  sauce-pans  in  sizes,  a  bain-marie  pan  to  set  tliem 
in,  a  small  pair  of  scales,  two  wooden  spoons,  a  plated  spoon 
of  each  size,  a  flour  dredger,  a  couple  of  eartlienware  bowls, 
a  block  tin  perforated  strainer  (a  pointed  one  for  choice) 
with  handle,  a  wire  sieve,  a  hair  sieve,  and  a  mortar. 

The  materials  you  will  call  into  play  from  time  to  time 
will  be : — butter,  flour,  eggs,  pepper,  salt,  onions,  limes,  a 
few  cloves  of  garlic,  spices,  the  contents  of  your  cruet- 
stand,  say  : — Harvey,  and  mushroom  ketchup  ;  anchovy, 
chilli,  tarragon,  and  French  vinegars  ;  besides  mustard, 
with  pickled  gherkins,  capers,  and  red-currant  jelly.  Care- 
fully-made gravy,  broth,  or  stock,  will  generally  be  want- 
ed, for  which  special  provision  must  be  made,  but  for 
ordinary  sauces,  you  can  generally  manage  to  make  enough 
broth  from  scraps  and  trimmings.  In  doing  this  you  have 
the  consolation  of  knowing  that  there  is  nothing  wasted. 
Sundry  spoonfuls  of  red  or  white  wine  will  be  necessary 
now  and  then,  and  if  you  wander  beyond  the  Rubicon  of 
moderation  to  the  realms  of  high  art,  you  will  naturally  ask 
for  champagne,  truffles,  cocks-combs,  cream,  mushrooms, 
and  olives. 

Of  all  writers  upon  cookery  none  has  dealt  more  clearly 
with  the  subject  of  sauces  than  Jules  Gouffe.  His  work 
may  appear  difficult  to  understand  in  places,  and  his  recipes 
may  seem  frequently  composed  upon  too  large  a  scale  to 
be  useful  to  mistresses  of  small  establishments,  but  in  the 
system  that  he  has  adopted  with  regard  to  this  important 
feature  of  kitchen  work,  he  has  hit  the  right  nail  upon  the 
head.  He  classes  as  fundamental  sauces, — from  which 
nearly  the  whole  category  may  be  said  to  have  sprung, — 
those  well-known  names  Espagyiole,  VeloutS,  Allemande^ 
Bechamel  and  Poivrade ;  and  even  of  these,  the  first  two 
may  be  considered  as  the  parents  of  the  rest. 


80  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

There  are  nevertheless  several  standing  sauces  which 
must  be  spoken  of  independently  ;  for  instance,  melted 
butter  (sauce  blanche),  Hollandaise,  sonhise,  maitre  dlwtel, 
bread  sauce,  mayonnaise,  tart  are,  remoulade,  ravigote, 
Eohert,  piquante,  S)'c.  Let  us  take  these  first,  for  they  are 
perhaps  more  simple,  and  oftenei*  in  request  than  Espag- 
nole,  veloute,  and  their  various  descendants. 

Failure  in  the  composition  of  melted  butter  (sauce 
blanche)  is  so  common,  that  I  will  commence  with  a  few 
hints  with  regard  to  that  homely  preparation.  The  pith 
of  this  sauce  consists  in  melting  your  lump  of  butter  (good 
butter  mind)  first  at  the  bottom  of  your  sauce-pan,  then  to 
add  the  flour,  which  soon  amalgamates  with  the  melted 
butter,  and  then  by  degrees  the  water,  or  milk  and  water 
(boiling)  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Work  this  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  till  it  is  soft  and  creamy  to  look  upon,  pass 
it  through  your  tin  strainer  into  a  hot  sauce  boat,  and,  as 
you  serve  it,  add  a  pat  of  fresh  butter  the  size  of  a  rupee, 
which  will,  of  course,  melt  of  its  own  accord,  and  give 
that  '  buttery'  flavour  which  you  desire — not  that  '  flour- 
and-watery'  one  so  suggestive  of  the  composition  you 
would  employ  for  fixing  scraps  in  an  album. 

For  a  pint  of  white  sauce,  you  will  require  two  ounces 
and  a  half  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  flour,  a  salt-spoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  pint  of  broth,  or  milk  and  water.  Use  two 
ounces  of  butter,  and  the  flour  first,  and  save  the  extra  half 
ounce  of  butter  to  finish  with. 

A  pinch  of  sugar  assists  all  white  sauces. 

Please  observe  that  milh  is  not  absolutely  necessary  in 
making  "  white  sauce."  The  chief  objection  to  its  use  is, 
that,  in  this  country,  it  causes  the  sauce  with  which  it  may 
be  used  to  turn  sour  the  next  day.  I  consequently  advo- 
cate the  use  of  broth,  made  from  chicken  bones  or  mutton 
scraps,  instead  of  milk.     Broth  enriches  the  sauce,  and  if 


SAUCES.  81 


strong,  makes  it  equal  to  sauce  blonde.  The  water  in 
which  peas,  carrots,  onions,  celery,  and  leeks,  have  been 
boiled  may  be  used  advantageously  for  this  purpose. 

If  required  for  fish  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  was 
boiled  reduced  by  rapid  boiling  ;  or  a  broth  made  from  the 
bones,  fins,  and  trimmings  separately  simmered  should  be 
used. 

The  common  error  in  making  white  sauce  is  the  stirring 
of  flour  into  the  sauce,  which  produces  the  effect  required 
at  the  expense  of  double  the  necessary  quantity  of  flour  ; 
for  the  lumps  strained  off  are  utterly  wasted.  A  too  spar- 
ing use  of  butter  is  another  cardinal  mistake. 

With  Jialf  a  pint  of  satice  hlanclie  you  can  work  out 
several  tasty  recipes  given  by  the  "  G.  C."  as  follows  : — 

Beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  the  juice  of  a  couple  of 
limes  ;  strain,  and  add  to  your  melted  butter  just  before 
serving  ;  off  the  fire  mind,  or  the  sauce  will  curdle. 

Beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
cream,  and  add  in  the  same  way. 

Throw  in  just  before  serving  a  table- spoonful  of  minced 
parsley,  fennel,  or  chopped  capers,  and  you  will  have  : — 
sauce  au  persil,  sauce  au  fenouil,  or  satice  aux  cdpres. 

Stir  into  it  after  it  is  made,  a  dessert-spoonful  (or  more 
if  liked)  of  anchovy,  Harvey,  ketchup,  or  any  sauce  you 
fancy. 

For  sauce  aux  fines  Jierhes,  flavour  a  pint  of  milk  by  boil- 
ing up  in  it  a  minced  Bombay  onion,  a  tiny  bit  of  garlic, 
and  a  handful  of  parsley  :  when  well  flavoured,  strain  the 
milk  through  muslin  and  stir  it  by  degrees  into  a  sauce- 
pan in  which  a  couple  of  ounces  of  butter  and  two  of  flour 
have  been  mixed  ;  thicken  gently  by  bringing  the  mixture 
to  the  boil,  strain,  and  add,  just  before  serving,  a  table- 


82  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

spoonful  of  minced  cui4ed  parsley,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
chopped  garden  cress,  and  half  one  of  chopped  green  stem 
of  spring  onion.  A  squeeze  of  a  lime  may  be  judiciously 
added  to  this  sauce. 

Fillets  of  pomfret,  or  any  fish  that  you  can  fillet  nicely, 
stewed  gently  in  milk  thus  flavoured,  with  the  same  thick- 
ened and  poured  over  them  when  done,  are  excellent. 

Small  rings  of  sliced  gherkins  added  to  plain  melted 
butter  form  the  sauce  aux  cornichous  you  remember  abroad  ; 
a  tea-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar  should  accompany  the 
rings. 

Melted  butter  for  sweet  entremets  such  as  cabinet  pud- 
ding, et  hoc  genus  omne,  should  be  made  exactly  in  the  same 
way  as  sance  hlancJie,  with  sugar  instead  of  salt,  with  milk, 
or  milk  and  water,  and  an  egg  beaten  up  in  brandy,  sherry, 
or  liqueur. 

By  adding  strong  broth  or  stock  to  the  butter  and  flour, 
instead  of  milk  and  water  as  in  saiice  hlanche,  you  produce 
sauce  hlonde  which  forms  the  basis  of  several  useful 
sauces. 

Maitre  cVhotel  is  simply  sauce  blonde  with  a  bountiful 
supply  of  finely  minced  parsley,  a  half  pinch  of  spiced 
pepper,  finished  off  the  fire  w4th  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and 
a  squeeze  of  lime  juice. 

Mincing  parsley  requires  attention.  If  done  when  the 
leaves  are  tvet,  the  pieces  will  all  stick  together,  and  much 
of  the  juice  will  be  lost.  Parsley  must  be  washed  and 
then  carefully  dried  in  a  cloth,  after  which  it  can  be  chop- 
ped as  finely  as  possible. 

Maitre  dliotel  butter,  I  may  add  par  parenthese  is  made 
thus  : — To  two  ounces  of  iced  fresh  butter,  add  the  juice 
of  one  lime,  a  dessert- spoonful  of  chopped  parsley  free  from 
moisture,  a  little  white  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.     Form 


SAUCES.  83 


it  with  jonr  butter  bat,  and  set  it  in  the  ice  box.  A  nice 
juicy,  grilled  chop,  or  a  little  grilled  fillet  of  beef,  served 
with  a  piece  of  maitre  d' hotel  butter  melting  over  it,  is  a 
French  method  of  captivating  the  appetite. 

Sauce  a  la  poulette  is  worthy  of  distinction  among  ordi- 
nary white  sauces.  Its  chief  points  are  :  first,  that  it  is 
thickened  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  instead  of  flour  ;  secondly, 
that  it  is  garnished  with  button  mushrooms.  It  is  a 
creamy  looking  sauce  the  colour  of  a  rich  custard.  Make 
an  ordinary  thin  sauce  hlonde  with  one  pint  of  chicken 
broth,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  ounce  of  flour,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste  :  stir  well  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  it  will 
be  a  thin  white  sauce  :  then  add  en  hain-inarie  one  by  one 
the  strained  and  well  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  finish  off 
with  a  pat  of  butter,  and  a  couple  of  table-spoonfuls  of 
chopped  mushrooms. 

The  pulp  of  some  large  sweet  onions  that  have  been 
simmered  in  milk  till  tender,  and  passed  through  the  sieve, 
when  worked  into  sauce  hlonde,  with  a  spoonful  of  cream 
for  high  days  and  holidays,  gives  you  sauce  soubise. 

Equal  portions  of  boiled  carrot,  French  beans,  turnip  or 
knolkhol,  cut  into  small  dice,  with  a  few  peas,  asparagus 
points,  and  haricot  beans,  and  gently  heated  in  sauce  hlonde^ 
form  that  charming  assistance  to  a  dish  of  grilled  cutlets, 
or  any  plain  entree,  called  macedoine  de  legumes.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  masli  the  vegetables,  so  do  not  overboil  them  in 
the  first  instance.* 

Sauce  Milanaise  is  a  delicious  variation  of  sauce  souhise. 
Cut  up  two  parboiled  Bombay  onions,  and  put  them  into 
a  sauce-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and 
a  salt-spoonful  of  salt ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  previously 
boiled  rice,  or  pearl  barley,  and  moisten  with  a  breakfast- 

*  Any  four  of  these  vegetables  are  enough  for  a  macedoine. — W. 


84  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

cupful  of  broth  ;  let  them  cook  slowly,  and  when  the  onions 
are  done,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  finely  grated  mild  cheese 
(Parmesan  for  choice),  stir  the  mixtui-e,  pass  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  mingle  it  with  half  a  pint  of  rich  sauce  blonde, 
or — for  your  birthday,  wedding  day,  or  the  christening 
day  of  your  first  baby — with  boiling  cream. 

There  is  no  sauce  more  popular  with  judges  of  good 
food  than  SoUandaise ;  in  perfection  it  is  a  grand  sauce, 
and  not  very  easy  to  make.  In  its  homely  form  it  may 
be  described  as  sauce  blanche,  to  which  a  few  yolks  of  eggf>, 
have  been  added,  and  a  squeeze  of  lime  juice.  In  its  more 
elaborate  treatment,  it  becomes  a  custard  of  volks  of  egsrs 
water,  vinegar  or  lime  juice,  and  butter.  Some  are  in 
favour  of  vinegar,  others  prefer  lime  juice,  which  they 
work  thus  :  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  in  a  little 
water  in  which  a  salt-spoonful  of  pounded  allspice  has 
been  dissolved,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  about  three  ounces 
of  fresh  butter.  Put  this  mixture  into  a  small  sauce-pan, 
and  plunge  it  into  a  bain-marie,  or  stew-pan  large  cnougli 
to  receive  it,  full  of  boiling  water  :  steam  your  mixture  in 
this  way  till  it  thickens,  and  stir  in  your  lime  juice  to 
finish  with. 

Gouffe's  recipe  may  be  condensed  in  this  way  : — reduce 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar  on  the  fire  with  a  little  salt 
and  pepper  added  to  it,  till  about  a  tea-spoonful  remains  : — 
strain,  and  add  to  it  two  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  and  two 
yolks  of  eggs ;  put  this  on  the  fire  and  heat  it  thoroughly, 
stirring  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  four  ounces 
of  butter  ounce  by  ounce  by  degrees,  with  a  little  water 
now  and  then  to  prevent  its  curdling.  This  process  had 
better  be  carried  out  in  a  bain-marie,  for  you  thus  obtain 
the  amount  of  gentle  heat  which  is  necessary  to  preserve 
the  sauce  in  a  velvety  condition  without  risk  of  any  kind. 

Those  capital  compositions  mayonnaise,  tartar e,  remoul- 


SAUCES.  85 


ade,  ravigote,  Sfc,  are  better  known  as  cold  sauces,  but  there 
are  liot  forms  of  preparing  tartar e  and  tbe  two  last  named 
not  often  presented.  They  are  descended  from  saiLce 
piqua7ite  which  is  simply  made  in  this  way  : — 

Fry  in  two  ounces  of  melted  butter  an  ounce  of  minced 
onion  with  an  ounce  of  chopped  carrot,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  parsley,  one  of  garden  cress,  and  one  clove  of  garlic. 
When  of  a  golden  hue,  add  equal  parts  (claret-glass  each) 
of  vinegar,  and  water,  or  broth  and  vinegar,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  and  one  of  sugar,  strain,  and  serve  hot.  Some 
chopped  truffles,  gherkins,  capers,  or  mushrooms  may  be 
added  with  good  effect,  and  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  or  Har- 
vey, is  often  given  to  it  as  a  finishing  touch.  This  sauce 
is  not  thickened. 

For  hot  tart  are,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  mustard  to  the 
above,  and  use  tarragon  vinegar. 

For  ravigote,  you  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  and  add  a 
very  little  white  wine,  and  minced  shallots  with  some  lime- 
juice  instead  of  vinegar. 

For  remoulade,  use  neither  lime  nor  wine,  but  incorporate 
with  your  frying  onions  and  green  herbs,  a  table -spoonful 
of  salad  oil,  and  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  French  mustard 
to  finish  with. 

Sauce  poivrade  {maigre)  is  made  like  sauce  piqiiante, 
with  this  exception,  that  affer  the  straining,  you  thicken 
the  liquor  with  butter  and  flour,  it  may  be  served  either 
white  or  brown  as  you  may  desire.  If  you  want  it  white, 
the  onions  must  not  be  allowed  to  take  colour  in  the  frying 
stage. 

Grouffe's  brown  poivrade  is  enriched  with  EspagnoJe,  and 
his  poivrade  blanche  with  veloute.  But  these  are  first  class 
sauces,  of  which  more  anon. 

Sauce  Robert  belongs  to  this  family  : — Chop  up  a  fine 
sweet  onion,  throw  the  mince  into  a  sauce-pan  with  an 

8 


86  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

ounce  of  bntter.  Let  it  take  colour,  then  add  an  ounce  of 
flour  by  degi'ees,  and  when  that  has  been  well  worked, 
half  a  pint  of  graTj,  pepper  and  salt  at  disci^etion,  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  and  piping  hot, 
pass  the  sauce  through  the  tin  strainer,  catching  up  all 
lumps,  and,  at  the  last  moment,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of 
vinegar,  and  one  of  mixed  mustard.  Excellent  with  pork, 
veal,  duck,  and  goose. 

Mustard  sauce  is  made  in  this  way  : — Melt  a  couple  of 
ounces  of  butter  in  a  small  sauce-pan,  blend  with  it  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  heaped  up  tea-spoonful  of 
French  mustard  with  a  pinch  of  salt :  when  thoroughly 
mixed,  add  half  a  pint  of  broth  or  water  :  let  it  come  to 
the  boil,  then  strain  through  the  pointed  strainer  into  a 
hot  sauce-boat.  If  Durham  mustard  is  used,  a  little  vine- 
gar must  be  added. 

These  sharp  relishes  go  well  with  fish,  and,  as  a  change, 
are  welcome  with  cutlets,  etc. 


o]E3:.a.:e=teii^  z^^i. 


Sauces— continued. 

¥  the  whole  category  o£  simple  sauces  none  is  more 
_  g-enerally  maltreated  than  "  bread-sauce."  Deli- 
cious  when  properly  made,  it  is  positively  a  re- 
pulsive mess  when  wrongly  treated.  You  have  no  doubt 
lamented  many  a  time  over  the  wretched  compound  which 
your  cook  persists  in  sending  up  under  this  title  ;  and  I 
have  heard  people  say  that  true  "bread-sauce"  cannot  be 
made  in  India.  Now,  I  have  tasted  quite  as  nasty  a  com- 
position as  Ramasamy's  in  England,  in  fact  even  there  you 
more  frequently  get  it  bad,  than  good.  The  good  "  bread- 
sauce,"  now  served  at  the  junior  United  Service  Club  in 
London,  is  due  to  the  admonitions  of  an  officer,  once  well 
known  in  Madras. 

The  system  pursued  by  the  ignorant  cook  may  be  thus 
described  : — he  cuts  some  slices  of  bread,  or  grates  bread- 
crumbs enough  for  his  requirements,  over  which  he  pours 
a  tea-cupful  of  boiling  ivater,  he  gives  that  a  pinch  of  salt, 
perhaps  (but  by  no  means  for  certain)  a  spoonful  of  milk, 
and  a  quantity  of  whole  pepper  corns,  and  cloves  ;  he  stirs 
this  to  the  consistency  of  thick  porridge,  and  finally  sends 
up  a  mixture  which  may  be  plainly  described  as  spiced 
bread  poultice  ! 

Setting  aside  other  considerations  for  a  moment,  can 
anything  be  more  disagreeable  than  the  accidental  biting 


88  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

of  a  ichole  clove,  or  a  pepper  corn,  in  any  dish  or  sauce  ? 
Common  sense  accordingly  dictates  that  when  the  use  of 
these  condiments  is  necessary,  vre  should  strain  the  liquid 
in  which  they  have  been  placed  befoi^  serving  it. 

The  back-bone  of  "  bread-sauce"  is  the  flavouring  of  the 
milk  with  which  it  is  made,  to  begin  with ;  that  done,  to 
strain  it  carefully  over  your  grated  crumbs  ;  then  to 
re-heat  it,  and  finish  it  off  with  a  good  table-spoonful  of 
creavi  at  the  moment  you  serve  it.  In  the  absence  of 
cream,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  beaten  up  in  a  little  milk  till 
it  looks  creamy,  may  be  added,  off  the  fire,  just  at  the  last> 
but  cream  should  be  used  if  possible. 

To  flavour  the  milk,  you  must  take  a  good  sized  white 
onion,  peel  off  the  outside  skin,  cut  it  into  quarters,  and 
pnt  them,  with  a  dozen  pepper  coras,  six  cloves,  a  blade 
of  mace,  a  pinch  of  gi\ated  nutmeg,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of 
salt,  into  a  sauce-pan  containing  not  less  than  half  a  pint 
of  good  milk.  The  utmost  care  is  now  necessary,  for  milk 
boils  up  so  rapidly  that  you  must  watch  your  sauce-pan 
narrowly,  and  use  a  very  low  fire  to  retard  the  boiling- 
stage.  Remove  the  pan  as  soon  as  the  sui'face  of  the  milk 
looks  frothy  :  let  it  cool  a  little,  and  replace  it,  continuing 
the  operation  until  the  onion  is  done,  and  adding  a  little 
milk  from  time  to  time  to  make  good  the  loss  by  evapora- 
tion. Now,  strain  it  off  through  a  piece  of  muslin  into  a 
bowl,  and  add  to  it,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  the  stale  bread- 
crumbs you  have  abeady  prepared,  till  your  eye  tells  you 
that  you  have  attained  the  right  consistency ;  then  heat 
the  sauce  up  again,  and  finish  it  as  I  have  already  de- 
scribed. 

I  can  always  rely  upon  making  as  good  a  "  bread-sauce" 
here  as  I  ever  ate  in  England,  but  then  I  would  never 
attempt  it  unless  I  had  all  the  ingredients  at  my  command. 
There  can  be  no  evasion  of  the  milk.     "Water  at  once  pro- 


SAUCES— CONTINUED.  89 

duces  the  poultice  I  liave  condenmed,  and  tlie  spoonful  of 
cream,  must  be  added  if  you  desire  success. 

This  sauce  richly  deserves  the  trouble  I  have  prescribed, 
and  it  will  be  found  in  the  end  economical,  for  by  its  aid  a 
carefully-roasted  fowl  provides  an  enjoyable  meal ;  whilst 
fillets  of  partridges,  or  chicken,  bread-crumbed,  nicely  fried, 
and  garnished  with  a  crisp  curl  or  two  of  fried  bacon, 
assume  at  once  a  superior  character.  A  young  pigeon, 
split,  and  grilled  over  a  fast  fire,  besprinkled  with  fried 
bread-crumbs,  and  assisted  by  good  bread-sauce,  forms 
a  nice  luncheon  for  a  lady  whose  husband's  days  are  spent 
at  office,  or  for  a  convalescent  beginning  to  mend  after  a 
long  illness. 

To  continue  simple  sauces  : — that  known  as  Sauce  an 
pauvre  liomme  is  produced  by  first  frying  a  minced  onion 
in  a  little  butter  until  it  assumes  a  golden  brown  tint,  and 
then  pouring  in  a  little  broth  made  from  scraps,  with  a 
tea-spoonful  of  vinegar  :  you  must  give  this  a  boil,  and 
then  strain  it  by  degrees  into  another  sauce-pan  contain- 
ing melted  butter  and  flour ;  work  this  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  a  little  pepper, 
and  some  minced  parsley. 

Dutch  sauce  as  eaten  in  Holland,  the  veritable  '  Hollan- 
daise,'  is  butter  plainly  melted  in  a  sauce-pan,  flavoured 
with  a  little  pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  the  squeeze  of  a 
lemon ;  this  is  allowed  to  settle  over  the  fire,  and  is  then 
poured  free  from  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan, 
into  a  piping  hot  metal  sauce-boat.  This  sauce  is  admir- 
able with  fish,  asparagus,  and  all  green  vegetables ;  you 
must,  of  course,  substitute  lime  for  lemon,  and  have  butter 
enough  to  spare  for  the  undertaking.  I  strongly  advise 
my  fortunate  friends  on  the  Neilgherries  to  make  this 
sauce  (a  little  goes  a  long  way  mind)   for  their  globe  arti- 


90  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

chokes ;  one  table- spoonful  is  enough  for  one  artichoke, 
and  the  plates  should  be  really  hot.* 

Hollandaise  made  with  eggs  is  known  abroad  as  Hollan- 
daise  jaune. 

*'  Horse-radish  sauce"  is  the  gi'and  standard  adjunct  to 
our  national  food,  "  the  roast  beef  of  old  England,"  and 
beef  in  India  cries  out  for  help  far  more  piteouslj  than  its 
rich  relation  far  away.  Horse-radish  grows  well  at  Ootaca- 
mund,  and  I  once  grew  some  with  success  at  Bangalore, 
but  the  scraped  root  of  the  moringa,  or  "  drum-stick"  tree, 
provides  so  good  a  substitute  that  we  may  rest  contented 
with  a  sauce  thus  composed  : — Scrape  as  finely  as  you  can 
a  cupful  of  the  root  shavings,  simmer  them  in  half  a  pint 
of  chicken  broth  ;  when  done,  thicken  the  broth  custard- 
wise  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  up  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  tarragon  vinegar  ;  add  popper,  salt,  and  a  very 
little  grated  nutmeg,  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 

A  richer  recipe  suggests  the  addition  of  a  coffee-cupful 
of  cream  wdth  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  then  to  let  the 
sauce  remain  on  the  fii^e  en  hain-marie,  stirring  well  until 
it  is  very  hot  (but  not  boiling)  and  serving  it  in  a  hot 
sauce-boat. 

The  cold  form  of  this  sauce  is  perhaps  the  easiest,  and 
I  think  as  nice  as  any  t : — you  simply  rasp  the  moringa,  or 
horse-radish  root,  till  you  have  a  cupful  of  fine  scrapings, 
and  mingle  them  with  an  ordinary  mayonnaise,  or  tartare 
sauce,  iced.  Cream  is,  of  coui'se,  a  great  addition,  but  the 
usual  mixture  of  eggs,  oil,  mustard,  and  vinegar,  will  give 
you  a  good  result. 

And  this  leads  me  to  discuss  at  once  the  two  sauces  I 
have  just  mentioned. 

*  A  tea- spoonful  of  anchovy  vinegar  is  in  this  case  better  than  lime, 
juice. — W. 

I  Most  delicious  with  cold  roast  beef. — W. 


SAUCES— CONTINUED  91 

Mayonnaise  sauce  is  certainly  one  of  the  most  useful,  and 
popular  of  all  the  sauces  we  attempt  out  here.  In  order- 
ing it,  if  you  know  what  to  say,  and  give  good  materials, 
you  may  be  certain  of  success.  Be  sure  that  the  oil  you 
give  is  thoroughly  good,  or  the  result  will  be  very  painful ; 
and  examine  your  mustard,  vinegar,  and  eggs.  Assuming 
that  these  are  all  satisfactory,  set  to  work  in  the  following 
manner  : — 

Commence  with  the  dry  ingredients,  and  put  into  a 
soup-plate,  or  slop-basin,  the  cold,  very  hard-boiled  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
mustard  powder,  a  tea-spoonful  of  finely-minced  shallot, 
and  a  dust  of  white  pepper.  Bruise  these  together 
thoroughly  with  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon.  Now,  add  a 
little  oil,  and  work  your  materials  to  a  paste,  dropping 
in  the  oil  patiently  by  degrees  until  you  get  it  nice  and 
moist;  next  throw  in  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  and 
continue  your  working,  adding  oil  without  measure,  and 
judging  by  your  eye  when  you  think  you  have  made 
enough  sauce,  for  the  tarragon  vinegar  you  finally  add 
will  not  be  more  than  a  good  table-spoonful.  The  moment 
the  vinegar  is  added,  the  sauce  will  assume  a  creamy 
appearance,  and  when  worked  sufficiently,  will  be  ready 
for  the  block  tin  strainer  (to  get  rid  of  "  onion  atoms," 
lumps  of  egg,  &c.,)  and  then  for  the  table.  If  made  on 
the  plains,  early  in  the  afternoon,  the  sauce-boat  should  be 
placed  in  the  ice-box ;  but,  to  be  successful,  mayonnaise 
sauce  ought,  if  possible,  to  be  made  as  near  the  time  of 
service  as  possible.  "When  cream  is  used,  it  takes  the  place 
of  the  oil,  but  if  only  a  little  can  be  spared,  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful may  be  added  to  the  sauce  I  have  described  with  good 
effect.  All  mayonnaise  sauces  should  he  iced,  if  only  for  a 
few  minutes. 

The  points  in  this  sauce  to  be  noted  are,  the  order  in 
which  the  various  ingredients  should  be  employed,  the  use 


92  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

of  the  raw  yolks  in  conjunction  with  the  hard-boiled  (they 
produce  the  thick  creaminess  you  want),  the  liberal  use  of 
good  oil,  and  the  addition  last  of  all,  in  sparing  quantity, 
of  the  tarragon  vinegar.  You  do  not  want  an  acid  sauce 
at  all,  remember.  English  cooks,  as  a  rule,  ruin  their 
mayonnaise  and  salad  dressings,  by  measuring  the  oil  and 
vinegar  they  use  in  equal  portions  !  No  artist  measures 
these  ingredients.*  You  might  as  well  expect  a  painter 
to  tell  you  the  number  of  gi^ains  of  the  colours  he  used  in 
painting  a  pictuiT.  You  must  not  omit  a  little  onion,  but 
whilst  permitting  the  flavour  "  scarce  suspected  to  animate 
the  whole,"  you  must  on  no  account  permit  the  "  atoms  to 
lui'k  within  the  bowl" — the  ladies  in  Sydney  Smith's  days 
were  perhaps  less  critical  in  the  matter  of  this  fragrant 
bulb,  than  are  our  fail'  enslavers  in  the  present  year  of 
gi-ace. 

"  Tar  tare  sauce"  is  the  same  as  the  above,  without  the 
use  of  hard-boiled  eggs :  raw  yolks  alone  should  be  used, 
and  the  oil  and  vinegar  should  be  added  in  the  following 
proportions ;  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  latter,  to  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  former,  well  beaten  together,  and  often 
times  repeated  till  enough  sauce  is  made. 

"  Bemoulade'^  is  a  mayonnaise  sauce  with  chopped 
gherkins,  parsley,  chives  and  capers,  added.  For  chives, 
try  the  green  stalks  of  a  few  young  onions.  The  mustard 
used  must  be  French,  and  a  drop  or  two  of  garlic-vinegar 
is  a  sine  qtid  nan. 

"  Bavigote''  is  also  mayonnaise  with  chopped  shallots 
anchovies,  celery,  cress,  and  sweet  herbs. 

Green  remoulade  and  ravigote  are  made  in  the  same  way, 
the  colour  being  produced  by  parsley  juice,  and  spinach- 
greening. 

*  Gonffe's  calculation  represents  the  quantity  of  vinegar  as  barelj 
one-eighth  of  the  oil. — W. 


SA  UCES— CONTINUED.  93 

Not  long  ago  I  observed  in  the  Queen  newspaper  a  ques- 
tion from  a  ladj  who  was  apparently  in  great  distress 
about  mayonnaise  sauce.  She  complained  that  she  could 
not  get  the  mixture  as  thich  as  she  desired,  and  begged 
for  instruction.  Two  answers  were  given  the  following 
week  :  one  of  them  urged  the  lady  to  thicken  with  flour 
or  arro^^T?oot,  and  the  other  advocated  mashed  potato  ! 
Now,  I  need  scarcely  say  that  this  was  a  case  in  which  the 
blind  attempted  to  lead  the  blind.  Mayonnaise  and  tar- 
tare  sauces  should  be  thickened  by  beating  the  oil  and 
raw  yolks  together  perseveringly.  With  patience  the 
mixture  can,  in  this  way,  be  made  to  stand  as  stiffly  as 
thick  batter. 


OKC^^T^rrEP2  ir^xi. 


Sauces— concluded. 

fXOW  pass  to  the  consideration  of  a  few  standard  liigh 
class  sauces,  which,  with  a  little  care  and  attention, 
will  be  found  practicable  in  every  well-conducted 
^Madras  kitchen.  To  aid  you  in  this  branch  of  the  cook's 
art,  you  cannot  possess  a  better  guide  than  Jules  Gouffe, 
whose  admirably  systematic  method  of  discussing  sauces 
has  never  been  approached  by  any  authority  on  culinary 
mysteries.  Unfortunately,  however  for  the  inexperienced 
reader,  Gouffe's  work  is  rather  the  treatise  of  a  Professor 
addi'essed  to  students  who  have  already  matriculated, 
than  a  vade  mecum  for  beginners.  So  unless  you  are 
fairly  au  fait  in  practical  kitchen  work,  you  will  hardly 
derive  much  easy  aid  from  the  Royal  Cookery  Book.  You 
must  have  some  knowledge  of  the  ingredients  which  may 
possibly  be  spared,  and  of  those  which  must,  on  no  account, 
be  omitted,  for  even  in  Gouffe's  recipes  there  are  sometimes 
things  named  which  are  not  absolutely  essential.  Yoa 
ought  to  know  something  of  stock-making,  and  understand 
the  value  of  game  bones,  poultry  bones,  fragments  of  ham, 
&c.,  and  the  sort  of  flavour  these  things  produce,  helped 
by  certain  vegetables.  If,  by  experience,  you  have  picked 
up  a  knowledge  of  equivalents  so  much  the  better.  I  can, 
in  short,  readily  believe  that  those  who  have  never 
bothered  their  heads  about  cookery,  would  find  it  almost 


SAUCES— CONCLUDED.  95 

impossible  to  direct  a  native  cook  from  the  pages  of  the 
great  chef.  In  saying  this  I  speak  from  experience.  I 
first  read  Gouffe  before  I  had  taken  to  practical  cooking 
work,  and  before  I  had  actually  made  sauces,  &c.,  ladle  in 
hand,  in  an  English  kitchen.  Since  going  through  that 
ordeal,  I  have  again  come  across  the  book,  and  I  find  that 
much  that  I  had  formerly  to  skip  as  too  complicated,  now 
seems  easy  enough. 

I  propose  now  to  place  before  you  in  the  simplest  way  I 
can  G-ouffe's  fundamental  sauces.  Those  who  are  ac- 
quainted with  that  author,  will  observe  that  in  the  first 
place  I  shall  reduce  the  recipes  to  a  much  shorter  compass, 
and  in  the  next,  that  I  shall  omit  everything  that  is  not 
down-right  necessary  to  produce  a  fair  result. 

Gouffe  propounds  the  following  sauces  as  the  found- 
ation of  nearly  all  those  of  a  high  class  that  you  are  likely 
to  encounter  : — 


1. 

Espagiiole. 

4. 

BScJiamel. 

2. 

VeloutS. 

5. 

Marinade. 

3. 

Allemande. 

6. 

Poivrade. 

Of  these  veloute,  allemande,  and  hechamel  are  so  closely 
allied,  that  I  shall  confine  myself  to  the  last.  Marinade 
and  poivrade  I  have  already  alluded  to.  Espagnole  is,  of 
course,  worthy  of  close  attention.  My  fundamental  sauces 
will  then  be  reduced  to  two : — one  brown,  the  other 
white, — which  I  think  will  be  found  ample  for  the  Indian 
kitchen. 

Veal  stock  plays  an  important  part  in  Gouffe's  recipes. 
Unfortunately  for  us  we  can  never  reckon  on  obtaining 
'  that  delicate  meat.  Nevertheless,  while  freely  admitting 
!  its  value,  I  do  not  look  upon  veal  as  a  sine  qua  non  in 
j  sauce-making.  A  really  carefully  made  chicken  consomyne, 
\  assisted  by  a  ham  or  bacon  bone,  and  on  special  occasions 


96  CULINARY  JOTTIKGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

with  a  good  fowl,  provides  you  with  an  excellent  equiva- 
lent. 

"SVith  regard  to  Espagnole  which,  as  many  of  you  no 
doubt  know,  is  a  rich,  thick,  hroion  sauce,  I  would  simplify 
Gouffe's  receipt  as  follows  : — Get  ready  a  couple  of  sheep's 
trotters  chopped  in  pieces,  with  a  ham  or  bacon  bone,  or  a 
few  lean  slices  of  either,  any  raw  cutlet  trimmings  you 
may  have,  and  two  pounds  of  beef  gravy  meat  cut  into 
squares.  Xow  cut  up  a  couple  of  onions  and  throw  them 
into  a  stew-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  fry  them  a  golden 
yellow  then  add  a  breakfast-cupful  of  broth,  or  water,  and 
the  pieces  of  meat  previously  prepared  ;  shake  the  pan  every 
now  and  then,  and  let  the  meat  take  colour;  now,  add 
water  enough  to  cover  the  meat,  etc.,  completely,  reduce 
the  fire,  and  let  the  contents  of  the  pan  come  slowly  to  the 
boil,  skimming  carefully  during  that  period ;  when  the 
surface  seems  nicely  clear  of  grease  and  scum,  add  a  cupful 
of  cold  water  and  two  carrots  sliced,  a  turnip,  a  good  piece 
of  celery,  a  clove  of  garlic,  half  a  dozen  of  pepper  corns,  a 
spoonful  of  dried  sweet  herbs  tied  up  in  a  bag,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  some  burnt  sugar  colouring,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Ko  spice.  As  soon  as  the  vegetables  have  been  cooked, 
remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  pick  out  the  vegetables, 
and  place  it  so  that  it  may  simmer  slowly  for  a  couple  of 
hours.  Xow,  lift  it  up,  and  strain  off  your  gravy  :  there 
should  be  quite  a  pint  and  a  half  of  it.  Next,  take  a 
sauce-pan  and  melt  two  ounces  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of 
it,  stir  in  two  ounces  of  flour  and  make  a  rou.r,  when  the 
colour  satisfies  you,  add  by  degrees,  stirring  as  you  do  so, 
the  pint  or  so  of  strong  gravy  that  you  strained  from  the 
stew-pan.  Let  the  contents  of  your  sauce-pan  come  to  the 
boil,  stirring  the  whole  time,  then  strain  the  sauce  through 
your  tin  strainer  into  a  clean  sauce-pan,  and  set  the  vessel 
in  the  hain-marie  to  remain  hot  till  wanted.  Any  fat  that 
may  rise  dui^ing  the  thickening  process  should  be  skim- 


SA  UCES—CONCL  UDED.  97 

med  off,  but  if  the  gravy  be  properly  made,  and  skimmed 
before  it  is  added  to  the  roux^  there  will  be  very  little  to 
take  off  in  the  hain-marie  stage.  The  hain-marie,  remem- 
ber, is  a  vessel  containing  boiling  water,  and  kept  over  the 
fire,  in  which  yon  immerse  sauce-pans  containing  made- 
sauces  to  preserve  them  hot  for  use. 

Espagnole  sauce,  therefore,  is  simply  a  good,  rich,  brown, 
meat  g^ravy,  thickened  with  flour.  It  only  possesses  the 
flavour  derived  from  the  vegetables,  and  from  the  ordinary 
meat  that  you  have  employed  to  make  it.  Using  this 
sauce  as  your  medium  or  basis,  you  can  proceed  to  compose 
a  number  of  rich  preparations  as  follows  : — Financiere, 
Perigueux,  Bordelaise,  Provengale,  Genevoise,  Matelote^ 
Chdteauhriand,  Begence,  Italienne,  and  Reforme,  with  others 
too  numerous  to  mention.  The  spScialites  of  the  sauces,  I 
have  enumerated,  consist  in  the  distinct  flavouring  of  the 
Espagnole,  from  which  they  are  really  made,  with  mush- 
rooms, truffles,  essence  of  game  or  of  pigeons,  poultry,  fish, 
or  ham  (concerning  which  I  shall  speak  later  on),  wine 
in  judicious  proportions,  delicate  vegetables,  and  so  on. 
A  careful  perusal  of  the  receipts  given,  hereafter  in  my 
menus,  ought  to  guide  you,  when  once  you  have  achieved  an 
undeniable  foundation  with  your  Espagnole. 

Game  fragments,  poultry,  mushrooms,  &c.,  must,  on  no 
account,  be  used  in  making  Espagnole,  for  such  ingredients 
would  impart  a  distinct  flavour  to  the  sauce.  The  object, 
remember,  is  to  reserve  the  flavoui'ing  according  to  the 
particular  sauce  we  may  select. 

I  will,  for  example,  give  you  saiice  a  la  Perigueux  : — 
Chop  up  half  the  contents  of  a  small  bottle  of  truffles,  and 
toss  them  awhile  in  some  melted  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a 
light  sauce-pan,  add  a  coffee-cupful  of  clear  gravy,  and 
a  glass  of  Madeii-a,  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes  ;  give  it 
a  little  pepper,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  salt,  and  then  slowly 

9 


98  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

stir  in  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  to  complete  the  sauce,  and 
when  thoroughly  hot,  it  is  ready. 

Take  now  Financiere  sauce  for,  let  us  say,  a  ragout  of 
that  name : — Choose  a  nice  tender  fowl,  lightly  roast  it, 
and  save  the  choicest  fillet  meat  for  your  ragout :  take  the 
legs,  thighs,  skin,  bones,  liver,  giblets,  scraps,  and  trim- 
mings, and  proceed  to  make  an  essence  of  them  thus  : — Break 
up  the  bones,  and,  with  the  remnants  aforesaid,  make  the 
strongest  broth  you  can,  flavoured  with  an  onion,  a  bit  of 
celery,  a  spoonful  of  dried  herbs,  a  sliced  carrot,  and  two  or 
three  pepper  corns.  Reduce  it  as  strong  as  possible,  and 
then  strain.  Now,  take  equal  portions  of  mushrooms  and 
of  truffles ;  cut  them  up,  and  toss  them  in  melted  butter 
at  the  bottom  of  a  sauce-pan,  and  when  you  have  worked 
them  well  thus,  for  two  or  three  minutes,  add  your  fowl- 
cssence,  with  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  complete  the  sauce 
with  your  pint  of  Espagnole.  The  ragout  (which  should 
be  garnished  with  whole  button  mushrooms,  sliced  truffles, 
cocks-combs,  sweet-breads,  tongue,  grated  ham,  and  sip- 
pets of  crisply  fried  bacon)  is  merely  a  careful  stew  of 
fowl  fillets,  in  the  sauce  I  have  described.  As  the  fillets 
have  been  previously  cooked,  they  will  merely  require 
gently  heating  up  in  the  sauce. 

It  will  be  observed  that  the  specialiles  of  the  two  sauces 
just  given  are  a  flavour  of  truffles  and  Madeira  in  Perigueux, 
and  of  chicken  essence  with  mushrooms,  truffles,  and 
sherry  in  Financiere. 

Bechamel,  which  I  select  as  the  best  type  of  a  funda- 
mental white  sauce,  should  be  made  in  this  way  : — Take 
the  same  ingTcdients  that  I  have  detailed  for  Espagnole, 
and  commence  by  slicing  up  the  onion,  and  shaking  the 
rings  in  an  ounce  of  melted  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the 
stew-pan  ;  do  not  let  them  take  colour,  but  add  your  meat* 

*  Veal,  if  procurable,  instead  of  beef. — W. 


SAUCES— CONCLUDED.  99 

and  bones  at  once,  and  cover  them  with  water,  omitting 
the  browning  stage  :  go  on  now  to  make  a  clear  consomme  ; 
instead  of  burnt-sugar  colouring,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of 
powdered  sugar  plain,  and  all  the  vegetables.  If  this  be 
carefully  prepared  and  skimmed,  you  will  obtain  a  pellucid 
broth  which  should  be  strained,  and  kept  ready  for  use 
presently.  Take  a  sauce-pan,  and  melt  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  "cow-brand,"  or  any  good  preserved  butter  in 
it ;  fry  gently  in  that  for  ten  minutes  a  sliced  carrot  and  a 
sliced  onion  ;  before  they  take  colour,  add  two  ounces  of 
flour,  stir  for  five  minutes,  and  add  by  degrees  your  clear 
broth,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  small  tinful  of  mushrooms 
chopped,  salt,  and  pepper ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  boiling, 
and  then  permit  the  sauce  to  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour, 
taking  off  all  fat  that  may  rise.  At  the  end  of  the  hour, 
you  can  strain  the  Bechamel  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  place  it 
in  the  bain-marie.  Before  using,  a  gill  of  cream  may  be 
finally  stirred  into  the  sauce  as  you  take  it  from  the  hain- 
marie. 

Veloute  is  exactly  like  this  omitting  the  cream  when  you 
add  the  stock,  and  also  the  chopped  mushrooms  :  it  is 
therefore  less  expensive  and  not  quite  so  rich. 

Allemande  is  veloute  flavoured  with  chicken  essence,  and 
chopped  mushrooms  :  it  is  thickened  with  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  no  cream  is  needed  in  its  composition. 

With  these  for  your  bases,  you  can  make  the  following 
rich  white  sauces : — oyster,  lobster,  supreme,  venitienne, 
poivrade  bla7iche,  rich  souhise,  champignons  blanches,  puree 
de  celeri,  and  other  rich  white  -purees.  In  fact  all  sauces 
which,  in  their  simple  form,  are  made  with  sauce  blanche, 
or  sauce  blonde,  may  be  served  in  a  superior  manner  by 
using  veloute,  or  Bechamel  as  their  groundwork. 

I  have  already  described  the  making  of  chicken,  or 
rather  fowl  essence :  the  same  principles  being  observed, 


4G45S2A 


100  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

you  can  obtain  valuable  flavouring  gravies  from  all  poul- 
try bones,  especially  from  those  of  a  turkey.  The  giblets 
should  never  be  thrown  away,  for  they  assist  a  gravy 
greatly.     In  like  manner  game  bones  are  very  valuable. 

Essences  of  mushrooms,  of  truffles,  vegetables,  and  ham, 
are  obtained  by  stewing  them  cut  into  small  pieces  in  con- 
somme. 

A  dash  of  Madeira  or  sound  !^^arsala  is  necessary  with 
game  essences,  while  chablis  and  sauterne  give  assistance 
to  fish  gravies  which  are  used,  of  course,  to  improve  sauces 
like  creme  d'ajichois,  crcme  de  crevettes,  and  all  fish  sauces. 

Reduced  vinegar,  i.e.  vinegar  boiled  until  half  or  more 
of  its  quantity  has  evaporated,  and  wine  similarly  reduced, 
produce  valuable  flavoring  agents. 

■  Mirepoix  is  a  strong  broth  made  from  meat  and  vege- 
tables, flavoured  with  wine  and  sweet  herbs,  and  strained, 
hut  not  thickened.     It  is  used  as  a  flavouring  medium. 

D'UxelleSy  or  fines  herhes,  is  composed  as  follows  : — Cho]) 
up  six  ounces  of  fresh  mu.shrooms,  six  ounces  of  fresh 
parsley,  and  two  ounces  of  shallot,  put  the  mince  into  a 
stew-pan  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  a  seasoning 
of  salt  and  black  pepper  ;  fry  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five 
minutes,  and  put  the  mixture  in  a  jar  for  use  as  required. 
D'U.relIes  sauce  is  made  by  adding  a  table-spoonful  of  this 
preparation  to  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  sauce.  This  should 
be  made  when  mushrooms  are  procurable  during  the  rains, 
it  will  be  found  most  useful  as  a  flavoring  and  finishing 
agent. 

Let  us  suppose  that  you  have  made  a  sauce  in  every 
way  satisfactorily,  but  find  that  it  is  scarcely  thick  enough. 
You  must  then  employ  a  liaison  or  thickening  to  correct 
the  error.  Liaison  for  a  white  sauce  may  be  made  of  flour, 
and  a  little  milk  and  water,  or  white  stock,  like  sauce 
hlanche,  or  sa^ice  hlonde  only  a  little  thicker.     For  a  brown 


SA  UCES—CONCL  UDED. 


101 


sauce  the  same,  with  brown  gravy.  In  either  case  the 
liaison  mixed  separately  is  stirred  through  a  strainer  into 
the  sauce  off  the  fire  :  when  this  has  been  done,  the  sauce- 
pan is  replaced  on  the  fire  and  stirred  until  the  desired 
thickness  is  obtained. 

Yolks  of  eggs  are  also  used  for  liaison :  they  must  be 
beaten  up  with  a  little  hot- water,  or  stock,  and  added  to 
the  sauce  off  the  fire,  the  thickening  being  very  carefully 
conducted  afterwards  over  a  low  fire  as  in  custard-making. 
The  sauce  must  be  allowed  to  cool  for  two  or  three  minutes 
before  the  egg  thickening  is  put  into  it.  This  thickening 
is  used  in  poulette  sauce  iov  fricassees  and  certain  soups. 

I  have  now,  I  think,  given  you  a  sketch  of  sauce-making 
in  its  various  stages.  Details  for  nearly  every  standard 
sauce  not  at  present  described,  will  be  found  in  my  menus. 


oi3:^^:rte]i^    z^^iii. 


Roasting  and  braising. 

IVE  me,"  says  the  Englishman,  "  a  good  cut  of  a 
well-cooked  joint,  with  a  nicely  boiled  potato, 
and  a  fresh  vegetable,  and  I  will  ask  for  nothing 
more."  Now,  it  must  be  admitted,  that  honest  slices  of 
meat  constitute  the  favorite  dinner  of  a  Briton.  Go  into 
a  Club  dining-room,  or  into  any  large  London  tavern  sucli 
as  "  Simpson's,"  "  The  Rainbow,"  &c.,  &c.,  and  you  will 
find  two-thirds  of  the  men  assembled  there  dining  "  off  the 
joint."  And  verily  the  well  roasted  haunch  or  saddle  of 
mutton,  the  sirloin  or  round  of  beef,  the  fillet  of  veal,  and 
the  loin  or  leg  of  pork,  are  dishes  peculiar  to  England,  of 
which  we  may  well  boast.  Our  artistic  neighbours  across 
the  channel  are  wont  to  sneer  at  our  love  of  great  joints, 
which  they  fail  to  cook  as  well  as  we  do,  for  although  in 
deference  to  the  insular  taste  "  ross  biff"  frequently  figures 
in  a  Parisian  menu,  I  think  that  men  are  unanimous  in 
saying  that  it  never  comes  up  to  the  home-fed,  home-served 
sirloin. 

Our  penchant  for  solid  food  follows  us  withersoever  we 
wander  away  from  home,  and  we  find  John  Bull  in  India 
as  fond  of  his  beef  and  mutton,  as  he  was  when  "  a  humble 
cottager  in  Britain."  He  sighs  for  a  Southdown  saddle 
or  a  Scotch  sirloin,  and  is  apt  to  turn  away  sorrowfully 
from  the  meagre  travesty  of  a  joint,  which,  after  much 


ROASTING  AND  BRAISING.  103 

trouble,  the  sharer  of  his  joys  and  sorrows  contrives  to 
place  before  him. 

Now,  although  a  vast  quantity  of  wretched  meat  is  sold 
in  the  Indian  market,  I  think  that  people  who  are  willing 
to  pay  a  good  price,  and  whose  servants  are  not  unusually 
dishonest,  can  generally  get  fair  beef  and  mutton  at  the 
large  stations  of  this  Presidency.  A  really  bad  servant 
will,  of  course,  cheat  you  with  greater  cruelty  in  buying 
your  meat  than  in  anything.  At  some  places  the  beef  is 
better  than  the  mutton,  and  vice  versa,  but  I  think  that,  if 
not  haggled  with  over  his  prices,  a  batcher  is  generally  to  be 
found  w^ho  can  supply  you  with  eatable  meat.  Owing  to 
the  calamity  which  befell  us  in  1877,  and  the  two  previous 
seasons  of  scarcity,  our  market  has,  for  the  past  few  years, 
been  hardly  as  well  supplied  as  it  formerly  was  ;  never- 
theless, good  meat  is  to  be  got. 

The  comparative  scarcity,  however,  of  eatable  meat  is  in 
a  srreat  measure  due  to  ourselves.  If  the  butchers  were 
certain  of  sales  at  remunerative  prices,  they  would  pro- 
duce a  far  better  article  than  they  do,  but  when  people 
grumble  at  an  extra  anna  charged  on  a  seer  of  well-fed 
meat,  you  can  scarcely  expect  much  improvement.  The 
expenses  attending  sheep-feeding  are  pretty  well  proved 
by  the  statistics  of  the  old-established  mutton  clubs  in 
the  mofussil.  The  members,  it  is  true,  get  capital  meat, 
but  it  costs  them,  first  and  last,  very  nearly  what  it  would 
in  England.  Native  graziers  can  hardly  be  expected  to 
turn  out  equally  good  mutton  at  a  cheaper  rate. 

Setting  aside  the  joints  that  you  occasionally  get  when 
a  stall-fed  ox  has  been  slaughtered,  or  a  gram-fed  sheep 
cut  up  ;  and  without  considering  the  exceptionally  good 
meat  of  mutton  clubs,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  chronicler  of 
these  "  jottings"  to  treat  of  the  average  produce  of  the 
country,  and  to  endeavour  to  provide  his  readers  with  a 


104  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

few  useful  hints  as  to  the  cookery  thereof.  Let  us  there- 
fore take  the  ordinary  joint  of  beef  or  of  mutton  which 
Ramasamy  brings  daily  from  bazar  for  "  Master  and  Mrs. 
only"  : — the  diminutive  sii'loin,  the  ribs  scarcely  larger 
than  the  loin  chops  of  a  Leicestershire  sheep,  the  three- 
and-a-half  pound  leg  of  mutton,  or  the  wizen  loinlct, — and 
let  us  assume  that  the  meat,  though  small,  is  faii-ly  good, — 
what  shall  we  do  with  it  ? 

In  a  country  where  it  is  impossible  to  keep  cooked  meat, 
the  fact  of  a  joint  being  small,  need  hardly  be  considered 
a  drawback,  but  we  have  before  us  a  good  deal  of  bone  in 
proportion  to  the  meat,  and  very  little  fat.  I  say  boldly 
that  plainly  roasting  such  a  fragment  is  a  mistake. 
L^nless  the  joint  be  of  a  fair  size,  and  above  the  average  as 
to  fat  like  the  saddle,  or  the  specially  fine  sirloin  we  buy 
for  a  dinner  party,  I  would  never  roast  it.  The  morsel 
can  ill  afford  to  lose  the  little  gravy  it  possesses  which  the 
stab  of  the  spit  is  bound  to  draw,  and  which  we  rarely  see 
sent  to  table,  for  Ramasamy  appreciates  it  as  an  adjunct 
to  his  curry. 

The  only  way  to  cook  little  joints,  such  as  those  I  have 
indicated,  is  to  braise  them.  You  thus  obtain  all  the 
noui'ishment  the  meat  can  give,  and  a  tasty  and  tender 
dish  into  the  bargain.  This  admirable  method  of  cookery 
is  far  too  rarely  adopted  :  so  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
do  not  understand  the  process,  I  had  better  mention  that 
hraisiiig  consists  in  placing  meat  in  a  closed  pan,  with 
some  made-gravy  or  stock  round  it,  vegetables  cut  up,  and 
a  judicious  allowance  of  salt  and  pepper.  In  this  the 
meat  is  very  slowly  simmered,  whilst  it  is  browned  exter- 
nally by  live  coals  placed  on  the  hraising-^^in  lid.  There 
is  thus  heat  from  above  and  below  the  pan,  and  the  joint 
is  cooked  in  its  own  gravy,  while  it  derives  additional 
flavoui'  from  the  vesretables,  &c.,  associated  with  it. 


ROASTING  AND  BRAISING.  105 

To  braise  a  little  Indian  joint  snccessfullv,  you  must 
first  bone  it,  tlien  trim  it,  tie  it  with  a  string  into  a  neat 
shape,  give  it  a  dust  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  it  on  one 
side,  whilst  you  make  the  best  broth  you  can  from  the 
bones  you  cut  out,  and  the  trimmings.  This  should 
occupy  the  cook  all  morning.  Having  obtained  all  you 
can  from  the  bones,  strain  off  your  broth,  let  it  get  cool, 
skim  off  the  fat,  and  now  proceed  to  cook  the  meat.  Melt 
some  butter  or  fat  at  the  bottom  of  your  stew-pan  fii'st, 
and  turn  the  meat  about  in  till  it  begins  to  take  colour, 
then  add  your  broth  (a  pint  and  a  half  or  thereabouts 
for  3  fts  of  meat  will  be  found  enough)  with  two  carrots, 
four  good  sized  onions,  a  tea-spoonful  each  of  marjoram 
and  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt :  let  it  simmer  gently  for  an 
hour.  Tui'n  the  meat,  add  a  couple  of  onions,  and  (says 
Gouffe)  a  gill  of  brandy,  let  the  pan  simmer  for  an  hour 
more, — keeping  live  coals  on  the  lid  throughout  the  pro- 
cess,— and  the  braise  will  be  complete.  Lift  out  the  joint, 
and  keep  it  on  a  hot  dish,  whilst  you  strain  off  the  gravy 
remaining  in  the  stew-pan, — it  vrill  be  half  the  amount  you 
originally  poured  in,  but  much  stronger.  You  can  now 
send  up  the  joint  with  the  gravy  jilainly  poui^ed  round  it ; 
or  you  can  pass  the  vegetables,  with  which  the  meat  was 
braised,  through  the  sieve,  thicken  thegra\'y,  and  add  the 
pulp  of  the  vegetables  to  it. 

In  this  manner  you  can  successfully  di^ess  a  leg  of 
mutton,  a  loin  of  mutton,  a  small  sirloin,  a  piece  of  the  ribs 
or  a  fillet  of  beef,  in  fact  all  small  joints.  Larding  with 
strips  of  fat  bacon  will  vastly  improve  the  braise,  especially 
when  the  meat  is  very  lean,  and  if  you  can  make  some 
strong  broth  from  any  meat  and  bones,  or  if  you  can  spare 
a  little  stock  from  the  soup-kettle,  you  need  not  bone  the 
joint.  The  vegetables,  &c.,  should,  in  this  case,  be  boiled 
in  the  stock  separately,  wine  should  be  added  to  flavour  it, 
and  the  joint  should  be  cooked  in  the  mirepoix  thus  made. 


106  CULINARY  JOTTIXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Poultry,  ducks,  and  geese,  are  far  better  braised  than 
roasted,  unless  you  keep  a  fowl-yard  of  your  own,  and 
feed  and  kill  the  birds  at  home.  To  braise  poultry  well, 
you  must  make  the  gravy  from  the  giblets,  and  trimmings 
of  the  birds,  assisted  by  a  little  gravy-meat.  In  fact  all 
braises  are  better  if  you  help  the  gravy  with  a  little  extra 
meat.  The  French  throw  in  a  glass  or  two  of  light  white 
wine  when  braising  poultry,  and  Madeira  or  Marsala  is  a 
sterling  aid  in  cooking  mutton  or  beef  in  this  method.  A 
slice  of  bacon  is  very  effective  with  all  braised  meat. 

If  you  must  roast  your  little  joint,  see  that  it  is  not 
spitted, — that  is,  thrust  through  by  the  spit ;  with  a  little 
care,  a  small  Indian  joint  can  easily  be  tied  to  it.  Do  not 
let  your  cook  use  coarse  wooden  skewers,  but  make  him 
tie  a  joint  into  a  shape,  for  every  stab  inflicted  in  it,  will 
rob  the  piece  of  meat  of  its  juiciness. 

Tastes  vary  so  strangely  as  to  the  "  doing"  of  meat,  that 
it  is  impossible  to  give  a  rule  for  roasting.  It  is,  however, 
essential  to  use  an  equal  fire  throughout  the  process,  and 
to  guard  against  cooking  the  outside  too  fast.  Frequent 
basting  is  a  sine  qua  non,  and  you  should  dredge  a  little 
flour  over  the  meat  to  finish  wdth,  to  produce  a  crisp, 
brown,  frothy  surface.  You  should  preserve  the  fat  of 
your  sirloin,  or  loin  of  mutton,  by  tying  over  it  a  wrapper 
of  buttered  paper. 

The  French  place  their  small  joints  in  marinade,  a  cus- 
tom I  strongly  advocate  for  the  poor  meat  of  this  country, 
when  you  intend  to  roast  or  grill  it.  Here  is  their 
method  of  cooking  a  loin  of  mutton  en  iiapillote  : — Trim 
the  loin  nicely,  and  let  it  lie  from  morning  till  roasting 
time  671  marinade,  composed  of  a  breakfast-cupful  of  salad 
oil,  two  onions,  and  a  carrot,  sliced  fine  as  for  Julienne, 
with  some  whole  peppers,  salt,  chopped  parsley,  and  a 


ROASTING  AND  BRAISING.  107 

tea-spoonful  of  powdered  di'ied  sweet  herbs.  Let  the 
joint  be  turned  several  times  during  the  day,  and  baste 
it  often.  When  to  be  dressed,  pack  it,  with  its  vegetables 
and  all,  in  a  well  oiled  paper,  and  roast  it  carefully,  bast- 
ing it  with  the  oil  that  composed  the  marinade  :  when 
nearly  done,  remove  the  paper,  brush  off  the  vegetables, 
baste  with  melted  butter,  and  serve,  when  nicely  browned, 
with  other  vegetables  independently  cooked,  and  some 
gravy.  Though  the  inexperienced  reader  will  hardly 
believe  me,  I  can  assure  him  that  when  finally  set  before 
him,  he  will  fail  to  trace  the  presence  of  oil  (the  hete  noir 
of  Englishmen)  whilst  he  will  be  surprised  at  the  juici- 
ness, and  good  flavour  of  the  meat. 

In  roasting  Indian  poultry,  invariably  lard  the  breast 
with  fat  bacon,  or  tie  a  flap  of  bacon  over  it.  Birds  cannot 
be  kept  too  moist  when  roasting.  A  large  sweet  onion, 
and  a  lump  of  preserved  butter  should  be  put  inside  the 
carcass  of  a  fowl,  and  the  basting  should  be  carefully 
attended  to.  The  slower  the  roasting  the  better.  I  have 
often  found  that  a  fowl  baked  in  a  slow  oven  till  about 
three  parts  done,  and  then  finished  in  front  of  the  fire,  was 
excellent.  It  should  be  occasionally  basted  with  melted 
butter  whilst  in  the  oven.  The  bacon  tied  over  the  breast 
should  be  removed  during  the  last  five  minutes  of  the  cook- 
ing, when  the  bird  should  be  lightly  dredged  over  with 
flour,  and  liberally  basted  with  melted  butter  to  produce 
the  brown,  crisp,  blisters,  which  always  make  a  fowl  look 
inviting. 

If  permitted  to  follow  the  customs  of  the  cookroom,  the 
uneducated  Ramasamy  will  send  up  your  roast  foAvl — 
hardly  as  large  as  an  English  chicken, — with  its  breast 
strangely  puffed  out  and  distorted  with  a  horrible  com- 
pound which  he  calls  "  stuffing."  This  you  carefully 
avoid  eating  on  account  of  its  nastiness,  but  few,  I  take  it, 
boldly  order  their  cooks  never  to  perpetrate  the  atrocity 


1 08  CULIXA  R Y  J 0  TTIXGS  FOR  MA  DRA S. 

again,  being  under  an  impression  that  stuffing  is  necessary 
in  roasting  poultry. 

Tlie  only  birds  that  should  be  stuffed  in  the  crop  are 
turkeys,  and  exceptionally  fine  capons.  Who  amongst 
you  ever  saw  a  roast  fowl  in  England,  stuffed  ?  The  bar- 
barous practice  has  become  common  out  here,  and  ought 
to  be  put  down  as  utterly  wi'ong.  Moistui-e,  which  is  so 
necessary  in  roasting,  should,  as  I  have  already  observed, 
be  secui-ed  by  either  larding  the  fowl  with  fat  bacon,  or 
tying  a  slice  of -bacon  over  the  breast.  I  however  advo- 
cate a  stuffing  for  the  inside  of  a  fowl  intended  for  braising 
as  follows  : — well  mashed  potato,  and  boiled  sweet  onion, 
in  the  proportion  of  two-thirds  of  the  former  to  one-third 
of  the  latter.  The  mashed  potato,  of  course,  contains 
butter,  spiced  pepper,  a  little  milk  or  cream,  or  the  yolk 
of  an  Qgg,  and  helps  to  preserve  the  juiciness  of  the  bird  ; 
the  flavour  it  imparts  too  is,  I  think,  agreeable.  This 
with  a  little  chopped  sage  may  be  used  for  ducks. 

An  autlior  for  whom  I  entertain  the  greatest  respect 
urges  the  practice  I  have  mentioned  of  putting  one  sweet 
onion,  and  a  lump  of  salt  butter,  inside  every  chicken,  or 
fowl,  to  be  roasted.  But  this  cannot  be  called  "  stuffing." 
A  turkey,  on  the  other  hand,  requires  carefully  made 
forcemeat,  and,  as  you  all  know,  there  are  many  varieties 
thereof.  Truffles,  and  chestnuts  form  the  epicurean  stuff- 
ing of  the  roast  turkey,  and  one  of  oysters  is  propounded 
for  the  boiled  bird.  I  leave  these  elaborate  compositions 
alone,  for  receipts  can  be  easily  hunted  up  for  them  when 
a  special  occasion  may  demand  a  "  dindon  frufe  a  la  Peri- 
gord,''  or  a  "  dinde  hraisee  a  la  financiers,''  ^r.,  ^x.  The 
stuffing,  I  am  anxious  to  discuss,  is  the  ordinary  one  we 
remember  in  England  for  turkeys,  veal,  hares,  and  so 
on  : — a  firm,  green-tinted  forcemeat,  flavoured  with  pleasant 
herbs,  and  a  suspicion  of  lemon-peel ;  a  forcemeat  which 
cuts  clean  with  the  slice  of  the  breast  of  your  turkey,  or 


ROASTING  AND  BRAISING,  109 

fillet  of  veal,  and  is  nice  whether  hot  or  cold.  Not  a 
greasy  mess,  pale  brown  in  colour,  and  lumpy,  which, 
at  the  first  cut  of  the  kaife,  oozes  out,  and  encumbers  the 
dish  in  a  most  untempting  manner. 

In  order  to  be  sure  of  making  the  real  thing,  if  you 
have  not  (as  you  ought  to  have  easily  enough  at  Madras) 
the  plants  themselves  growing  in  pots  handy,  see  that  you 
have  a  bottle  of  dried  thyme,  and  one  of  marjoram,  and  a 
good  bunch  of  fresh  curly  parsley,  which  should  also  be 
growing  in  boxes.  Having  these  ready,  work  as  follows  : — 
Pare  a  good  sized  lime  as  finely  as  possible  avoiding  the 
slightest  particle  of  white  pith,  and  mince  the  peel  as 
small  as  possible  :  weigh  six  ounces  of  dry,  well  sifted, 
stale  bread-crumbs  :  measure  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped 
thyme  (green)  and  one  of  marjoram  (green),  or  take  a 
table-spoonful  of  the  di^ied  leaves  powdered — half  and  half  : 
you  must  powder  the  leaves  to  get  rid  of  atoms  of  stalk  and 
stick  :  mince  the  parsley  fine  to  the  extent  of  a  heaped  up 
table-spoonful :  chop  up  three  ounces  of  fresh  beef-suet, 
or  butter  if  suet  cannot  be  got :  mix  all  these  together 
with  two  spoons  in  a  large  dish,  and  dust  the  whole  well 
with  salt  and  pepper,  lastly,  binding  the  mixtiu^e  with 
three  well-beaten  eggs :  work  this  together,  and  the 
stuffing  will  be  fit  to  use.  Much  depends  upon  the  fine 
mincing  of  all  the  ingredients,  and  their  thorough  in- 
corporation :  the  suet  should  be  chopped  as  finely  as 
possible.  The  colour  will  be,  of  course,  a  deep  green 
provided  you  use  the  quantities  of  green  herbs  I  have 
given  :  supposing,  however,  that  you  have  only  di^ied  herbs, 
and  that  you  cannot  get  fresh  parsley ;  why  not  secure  the 
colour  by  a  good  spoonful  of  spinach-greening,  it  is  almost 
tasteless,  and  the  colour  is  a  great  thing  in  stuffing.  This, 
carefully  made,  is  Martha's  ordinary  veal,  or  turkey  stuff- 
ing, and  ought  to  taste,  just  as  nice  here  as  that  which  we 
so  well  remember  at  home. 

10 


110  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


In  mincing  parsley,  and  all  green  herbs,  be  careful  that, 
after  washing  them  well,  the  leaves  are  ivell  dried  in  a 
cloth  :  if  chopped  wet,  the  juice  escapes,  and  the  mince  is 
never  finely  and  evenly  granulated. 

Forcemeats  are,  of  course,  added  to,  and  perhaps  im- 
proved, by  chopped  ham,  tongue,  liver,  mushrooms,  bacon, 
a  little  anchovy,  a  casual  oyster,  and,  of  course,  truffles. 
The  addition  of  these  things  should,  however,  be  thought- 
fully carried  out,  and  the  proportions  on  no  account  left  at 
haphazard  to  the  tender  mercy  of  the  average  Ramasamy. 

The  mixture  which  tradition  has  handed  down  to  the 
Anglo-Indian  kitchen  for  the  stuffing  of  ducks  and  geese 
is  nearly  as  disagreeable  as  that  for  the  fowl.  Whilst  the 
latter  may  be  described  as  a  consolidated  and  greasy  rela- 
tion of  the  "  bread  poultice"  that  I  denounced,  when  treat- 
ing of  "  bread  sauce,"  the  former  owes  its  flavour  to  violent 
onion,  crude  sage,  and  slices  of  half-boiled  potato,  mixed 
together  lumpily  and  lubricated  with  some  chopped  fat. 
Let  me  speedily  tell  you  that  potnto  has  no  place  whatever 
in  the  best  duck  stuffing,  and  that  the  crude  taste  j^ou 
dislike  so  much  arises  from  the  sage  being  chopped  raw, 
and  the  onion  being  a  common  one  instead  of  the  mild 
kind  called  "  Bombay,"  or  "  Bellary." 

Duck  stuffing  should  be  made  in  this  manner  : — Take 
three  Bombay  onions  the  size  of  Badminton  balls,  wash, 
peel,  and  boil  them  in  two  waters  to  extract  the  acrid 
flavour.  Whilst  these  are  boiling,  take  eight  tender  look- 
ing sage  leaves,  and  scald  them  in  boiling  water  for  five 
minutes,  take  them  out,  and  when  the  onions  are  tender, 
turn  them  out,  drain  them  dry,  and  proceed  to  mince  them 
with  the  sage  leaves,  very  fine.  Add  to  this,  five  ounces  of 
bread-crumbs,  and  dust  over  the  mixture  a  liberal  allow- 
ance of  spiced  pepper  (which  I  give  later  on)  and  salt : 
when  nicely  worked  together,  add  an  ounce  of  butter  or 


ROASTING  AND  BRAISING.  Ill 

suet  cut  into  dice  and  bind  tlie  ingredients  with  three 
eggs,  it  will  now  be  ready  for  use.  The  proportions  of 
this  stuffing  may  be  relied  on  :  it  is  mild,  yet  pleasantly 
flavoured,  and,  "  leaves  not  a  trace  of  sad  memory  behind." 

Goose  stuffing  is  made  in  a  similar  way,  and  the  com- 
position is  a  pleasant  addition  to  some  joints  of  pork  :  let 
my  friends  on  the  Hills  try  a  loin,  boned,  rolled,  and  stuffed 
with  this,  and  roasted  over  a  bright  fire. 

In  all  stuffings,  and  forcemeats,  whether  required  for 
roast,  boiled,  or  braised  poultry  ;  for  the  dainty  galantine 
or  the  savoury  pie,  there  are  few  things  more  useful  to 
have  at  hand  than  "  5j92ce(^  _p6?ppe?"."  It  saves  an  infinity 
of  trouble,  and  is  an  invaluable  thing  for  a  thousand 
dishes.  I  have  been  very  successful  with  one  that  I  con- 
cocted from  Gonffe's  receipt,  which  I  feel  it  my  duty  to 
tell  you  of,  and  urge  you  to  go  and  do  likewise.  You 
can  bottle  it,  and  take  what  you  require  from  time  to  time. 

ounce  dried  thyme  leaves, ") 

do.      do.     marjoram,       >■  from  the  bottle. 

do.      do.     savory,    J 

ounce  nutmeg, 
\      do.     cloves, 
\      do.     whole  black  pepper, 
I      do.     Nepaul  pepper, 

pound  the  above  ingredients  thoroughly  in  a  mortar,  and 
when  ground  to  powder,  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve  : 
bottle  it,  and  cork  it  down  securely. 

If  you  desire  to  make  what  Gouffe  calls  "  spiced  salt," 
mix  one  ounce  of  the  above  with  four  of  salt.  Spiced 
pepper  is  constantly  wanted,  and  lends  that  nice  sausage 
flavour  to  savoury  pies,  rolled  beef,  brawn,  savoury  pcUes, 
and  all  forcemeats. 

Amongst  the  many  barbarous  tricks  of  Native  cooks, 


112  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

there  is  an  especial  one  which  I  ought  to  have  brought  to 
prominent  notice  before.  I  refer  to  the  method  which 
obtains  in  the  cookroom  of  removing  the  feathers  from 
poultry,  geese,  ducks,  and  game.  I  cannot  call  it  "  pluck- 
ing," for,  as  many  of  you  know,  the  feathers  are  got  rid 
of  wholesale  by  plunging  the  bird  into  scalding  hot-water  ! 
The  immediate  effect  of  this  ignorant  habit  is  to  harden 
and  parch  the  skin  of  the  fowl,  to  prevent  the  proper 
exudation  and  admission  of  moisture  during  roasting,  and 
to  render  the  flesh  dry  and  tasteless.  Birds  must  be 
plucked  by  hand,  and  their  small  down  must  be  singed. 
To  ensure  this  being  done  in  your  kitchen,  order  all  birds 
to  be  brought  for  inspection  when  trussed  for  cooking,  and 
the  smallest  experience  will  enable  you  to  detect  the 
parchment-like  skin  of  the  scalded  bird,  from  that  of  the 
hand-plucked  one,  which  will  be  cool  and  soft,  with  an 
unmistakable  freshness  which  the  other  cannot  have.  A 
basket  containing  the  feathers  should  also  be  shown,  for 
they  will  expose  scalding  in  a  minute.  It  is  needless  to 
say  that  game  is  ruthlessly  spoiled  by  this  trick  of  the 
kitchen,  and  even  the  chicken  destined  for  a  curry  is 
robbed  of  half  its  flavour  by  being  scalded  first.  The 
practice  is,  of  course,  the  offspring  of  idleness, — a  sub- 
terfuge to  escape  trouble. 

I  would  also  point  out  that  the  common  way  of  killing 
poultry  in  this  country  is  inhuman,  and,  in  a  culinary 
point  of  view,  utterly  wrong.  Setting  aside  the  cruelty  of 
cutting  a  fowl's  throat,  and  throwing  it  on  the  ground  to 
bleed  to  death  in  agony,  what  an  idiotic  thing  it  is  to 
waste  the  very  part  of  the  bird  from  which  its  gravy,  and 
juiciness  are  derived  !  White  meats  are  bled  in  England 
simply  to  produce  the  necessary  tint,  but  they  lose  much 
of  their  nutritious  quality  by  the  process.  They,  how- 
ever, can  afford  to  do  so.  Our  poorly  flavoured  birds  can 
ill  endure  the  loss  of  an  atom  of  the  richness  that  they 


ROASTING  AND  BRAISING. 


113 


may  possess.  I  maintain,  therefore,  that  a  merciful,  and 
instantaneous  death,  by  a  heavy  blow  from  a  wooden 
mallet,  would  be  pleasanter  for  the  fowl,  and  far  better 
for  us  : — the  blow  should  be  given  on  the  back  of  the 
head. 

Besides  those  I  have  mentioned  there  are  still  two  evil 
practices  to  be  noted  to  which  ^N'ative  cooks  are  prone. 
The  first,  is  that  of  parboiling  joints  and  poultry  before 
roasting  them:  the  second,  is  that  of  keeping  joints,  &c., 
far  too  long  on  the  spit.  As  a  rule,  Ramasamy  commences 
operations  much  too  soon,  and  then  keeps  the  meat  on 
the  spit  before  a  low  fire  until  it  is  wanted.  Strict  orders 
should  be  issued  to  prevent  the  first  of  these  errors,  and  a 
table,  showing  the  time  that  various  joints  require  in 
roasting  properly,  should  be  hung  up  in  the  kitchen  to 
prevent  the  second. 

If  the  spit  be  protected  from  draughts  with  a  screen, 
and  the  fire  evenly  maintained,  and  sufficiently  brisk  for 
the  operation  in  hand — 


A  large  turkey,  8 1 

tbs.  wi 

1  take 

an  lionr  and  three-quarters. 

A  hen-tnrkej',   3^ 

fts. 

>» 

forty-five  minutes. 

A  capon,  4  fts. 

... 

,, 

fifty  rninntes. 

A  fowl,  3  as. 

... 

»> 

half  an  hour. 

A  pigeon 

... 

>» 

a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

A  duck 

... 

j» 

twenty-five  minutes. 

A  goose,  6  lbs. 

... 

>> 

an  hour  and  a  half. 

A  bare 

... 

» 

half  an  hour. 

A  partridge  ... 

... 

>j 

a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

A  snipe 

... 

>) 

teii  minutes. 

A  florican  or  pheasant 

j> 

half  an  hour. 

A  saddle  of  mntto 

n,  7  lbs 

•   >> 

an  hoar  and  a  half. 

A  sirloin  of  beef 

do. 

» 

an  hour  and  three-quarters. 

A  loin  of  pork,  3  fts. 

M 

fifty  miuufces. 

A  loin  of  mutton, 

3  lbs. 

*> 

thirty-five  minutes. 

— ♦ 

Boiling  and  Steaming. 

I  OILING,"  says  the  G.  C,  "  is  one  of  the  simplest 
and  most  economical  modes  of  preparing  food. 
Meat  loses  less  weight  in  boiling  than  in  any 
process  of  cooking,  and  the  water  it  has  been  boiled  in  can 
always  be  turned  to  good  account ;  besides  which,  although 
it  may  be  an  open  question  whether  boiled  meat  is  more 
nutritious  than  roast  or  boiled  meat,  it  is  beyond  dispute 
more  wholesome  and  easily  digested," 

Under  the  head  of  "  soup-making"  I  have  already  dis- 
cussed the  method  of  boiling  meat  required  for  soup  :  the 
^^ pof-au-feii"  being  my  example  of  how  meat  should  be 
treated  when  the  object  is  to  extract  its  juices.  We  must 
now  consider  what  has  to  be  done  in  preparing  boiled 
meat  for  the  table,  and  note  where  the  two  processes  differ. 

For  the  ^^  pot-au-feu'  it  is  necessary  to  put  the  meat  and 
salt  into  cold  water  first, — alone  :  to  watch  it  come  slowly 
to  the  boil,  skimming  the  scum  that  rises  very  carefully  : 
when  the  sm'f ace  is  clear,  and  the  water  boiling,  to  add  the 
vegetables,  &c.  ;  to  let  it  boil  till  the  vegetables  are  done, 
to  remove  them,  and  then  to  let  the  contents  of  your  pot 
simmer  for  three  or  foui'  hours.  But  for  a  piece  of  boiled 
beef,  a  fowl,  leg  of  mutton,  or  whatever  it  may  be,  destined 
for  the  dinner  table,  you  must  put  the  meat,  tied  neatly 
in  the  shape  required  with  twdne,  into  hot  water  to  begin 


BOILING  AND  STEAMING.  115 

with.  Like  the  pot-au-feu  it  should  be  watched,  and  skim- 
med, and  the  salt,  and  flavonring  vegetables,  and  herbs, 
added  when  the  scum  has  been  removed.  The  water,  let 
me  observe,  must  not  be  hoiling,  it  should  be  as  hot  as  you 
can  bear  to  touch,  and  the  early  stage  of  coming  to  the 
actual  boil  should  be  retarded  as  much  as  possible. 

Boiled  meat  at  the  English  dinner  table  is  often  spoiled 
by  being  "  galloped,"  as  cooks  say,  that  is,  done  too  fast. 
Meat  thus  maltreated  cannot  fail  to  be  tough.  You  must 
simmer  your  hump,  or  youi'  ham,  just  as  carefully  as  you 
would  the  meat  of  a  pot-au-feu.  When  once  boiling-point 
has  been  attained,  ease  off  the  fire  a  little,  and  endeavour 
to  obtain  a  uniform  heat  below  the  pot  that  will  just  keep 
its  surface,  as  it  were,  alive.  An  occasional  bubble,  is 
what  you  want,  with  gentle  motion,  the  water  muttering 
to  you,  not  jabbering  and  fussing,  as  it  does  when  boiling. 
If  you  follow  this  process,  you  will  never  have  to  send  a 
boiled  leg  of  mutton  away  fi'om  the  table  because  of  its 
being  too  underdone  inside  to  be  fit  to  eat. 

Remember  that  the  liquor  in  which  a  joint  has  been 
boiled  is  weak  stock.  If  reduced  by  being  simmered  with 
the  lid  of  the  cooking  vessel  removed,  it  can  be  turned  to 
account  in  many  ways,  especially  for  the  enrichment  of 
white  sauce. 

The  common  error  made  by  cooks  in  England,  just  as 
much  as  by  our  Ramasamy,  consists  in  their  keeping  up 
the  high  pressure  too  long,  whereby  the  outside  of  the 
joint  is  rapidly  done,  and  the  inside  scarcely  cooked  at  all. 
The  joint  looks  done,  and  is  consequently  sent  up  with 
the  unsatisfactory  result  which  I  have  pointed  out. 

Simmering  a  joint  of  meat  is  undoubtedly  a  troublesome 
process  in  India.  The  cook's  attention  must  be  kept  up 
throughout  the  work.  He  cannot  lift  the  pot  to  the  hob, 
or  change  its  position  on  the  range,  as  the  English  cook 


116  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

can  so  easily  do.  He  must  be  ever  watchful  about  his 
fire,  and  guard  against  there  being  too  much,  or  too  little 
firewood  under  his  vessels.  In  fact,  I  doubt  whether  it 
is  possible  for  Ramasamj  to  conduct  the  simmering  pro- 
cess satisfactorily  with  only  the  common  appliances  of  the 
cookroom  at  his  command.  Those  who  possess  ranges,  or 
cooking  stoves,  should  count  themselves  especially  for- 
tunate. Their  cooks  can  regulate  the  heat  they  want 
at  will.  But,  with  a  common  cookroom  fireplace,  the 
difficulty  of  maintaining  the  unvar3'ing  gentle  heat  so 
highly  essential,  appears  to  me  to  be  very  great. 

During  the  boiling  of  a  joint,  the  water  should,  at  all 
times,  be  kept  so  as  to  cover  it.  If  there  be  any  loss  by 
evaporation,  it  should  be  made  good  at  once  by  the  addi- 
tion of  hot  water. 

No  matter  what  kind  of  meat  you  boil,  you  will  find  it 
improved  by  the  addition  of  a  few  vegetables.  Custom 
has  ruled  that  we  should  put  in  carrots,  and  turnips,  witli 
boiled  beef  ;  turnips,  or  sweet  onions,  with  boiled  mutton  ; 
onions  with  a  rabbit,  &c.,  yet  true  cooks  add  a  judicious 
assortment  of  herbs,  <tc.,  to  every  boiled  dish.  A  large 
sweet  onion,  some  celery,  a  carrot,  parsley,  a  sprig  of  mar- 
joram, or  thyme,  a  little  bag  of  flavouring  materials  such 
as  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few  cloves,  some 
whole  peppers,  and  the  peel  of  a  lime,  should  always  go 
into  the  pot  with  a  boiling  fowl.  Unless  you  have  tried 
them,  you  have  no  idea  how  these  things  improve  the  taste 
of  boiled  joints. 

It  is  a  very  capital  plan  to  hoil  a  foicl  in  the  soup-stocJi'. 
Herein  you  have  the  true  essence  of  economy — no  waste. 
The  soup  gains  all  the  fowl  loses  in  the  boiling,  whilst  the 
fowl  derives  richness  and  flavour  by  being  done  in  the 
stock.  One  lot  of  vegetables  and  herbs  suflices  for  both, 
and  absolutely  nothing  is  thrown  away  but  the  muslin  bag 


BOILING  AND  STEAMING.  117 

which  contained  the  spices,  garlic,  &c.*  I  need  hardly 
remind  you  that  in  suggesting  this  to  RamasamY  you  will 
meet  with  opposition.  He  will  tell  you,  in  all  probability, 
that  "  mixted  the  fowl  and  soup-meat,  cannot  come  the 
good  taste,"  and  when  you  insist  upon  a  trial,  he  will  go 
away  sorrowful,  for  the  broth  produced  in  boiling  a  fowl 
in  the  ordinary  way,  is  his  perquisite  (or  rather  we  do  not 
ask  for  it)  and  "  mixted  with  rice  only,"  makes,  with  a 
chilli  or  two,  a  bowl  of  "  pish-pash."  Xevertheless,  the 
fact  exists  beyond  a  doubt  that  a  fowl  is  vastly  improved 
by  being  thus  cooked  :  it  remains  for  you  to  decide  whe- 
ther, as  a  matter  of  policy,  it  would  be  wise  to  vex  "  your 
best  friend"  by  ordering  so  great  an  innovation.  I 
confess  that  the  man  who,  with  his  eyes  open,  wars 
against  his  chef,  is  generally  the  loser  before  the  campaign 
is  ended. 

Time  in  boiling  meat  can  scarcely  be  fixed  arbitrarily. 
If  you  follow  the  advice  I  have  given,  you  will  find  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes  per  pound  a  reliable  allowance.  Dis- 
cretion and  experience  will  enable  you  to  decide  what 
orders  to  give.  Large  and  deep  joints  such  as  humps,  legs 
of  mutton  and  of  pork,  silverside  of  beef,  and  hams,  will 
naturally  require  a  more  liberal  allowance  than  fowls, 
tongues,  galantines,  bacon,  rabbits,  &c. 

There  are  few  things  that  are  boiled  as  important  as  the 
ham.  So  much  depends  on  the  cook's  knowledge  of  the 
process,  that  many  a  ham  is  spoiled  through  ignorance. 
I  think  it  advisable,  therefore,  to  give  you  the  following- 
rules  which  I  hope  will  be  found  easy  enough  : 

It  is  of  course  a  sine  qua  non  that  you  soak  the  ham  for 
twenty -four  hours,  changing  the  water  at  least  three  times 
(I  am  speaking  of  hams  in  canvas,  or  skin,  not  of  those  in 

*  Tlie  fowl  should  not  be  put  into  the  soup-kettle  until  all  skim- 
ming has  been  completed,  and  the  soup  brought  to  the  boil. — W. 


118  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

tins)  ;  when  thus  well  soaked,  scrub  the  ham  well,  and 
trim  it,  scraping  off  all  discolorations.  Now,  place  it  in 
your  ham-kettle,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water  (for  a 
festival  a  bottle  of  Madeira  or  Marsala  should  be  poured 
in  with  the  water)  and  let  it  come  gently  to  the  boil, 
removing  all  scum  that  may  rise.  When  quite  clear, 
throw  in  three  carrots,  a  head  of  celery  cut  up  (leaves 
and  all),  three  Bombay  onions,  a  bag  containing  a  clove 
of  garlic,  a  dozen  whole  peppers,  and  some  pieces  of  lime 
peel,  with  bunches  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  marjoram  :  boil 
on  till  the  vegetables  are  done,  and  then  let  the  kettle 
simmer  gently  for  four  or  five  hours.  When  done,  let 
it  remain  till  nearly  cold,  then  lift  the  ham  from  the 
water,  and  detach  the  outer  skin  (it  will  roll  off  easily) 
and  dredge  some  fine  crust  raspings,  or  some  pounded 
baked  crumbs  over  it. 

An  ancient  Indian  custom  may  still  be  met  with,  where 
civilization  has  not  yet  penetrated,  of  sticking  an  army  of 
cloves  into  the  skin  of  a  ham.  Fine  your  cook  a  rupee  for 
this  desecration  and  it  will  not  occur  again.  The  ham 
should  either  be  dredged  over  as  I  have  described,  or,  if 
wanted  for  a  ball  supper,  wedding  breakfast,  luncheon 
party,  or  grand  picnic,  it  should  be  glazed,  a  recipe  for 
which  process  will  be  found  elsewhere. 

Old  cookery  books  give  you  the  funniest  nostrums  con- 
cerning the  cookery  of  a  ham.  Wisps  of  hay,  juniper 
berries,  coriander  seed,  ale,  and  even  leather  shavings,  are 
laid  down  as  flavouring  adjuncts.  Saltpetre  is  advised  to 
add  to  the  redness,  and  in  England  you  find  local  prejudices 
in  favour  of  the  addition  of  different  wines  :  in  one  county 
elder-wine,  in  another  cowslip-wine,  and  so  on.  The  end 
of  all  things,  after  all,  is  to  get  a  really  well-cured  ham,  if 
you  secure  tliat,  and  cook  it  as  I  have  described,  you  will 
not  require  any  leather  shavings,  but  remember  that  on 


BOILING  AND  STEAMING.  119 

important  occasions  a  bottle  of  Madeira  or  Marsala  crowns 
your  best  efforts  with  supreme  success. 

Some  of  the  best  modern  writers  on  cookery  urge  us 
to  give  up  the  salting  of  beef  for  boiling.  "  Such  a  prac- 
tice," says  one  of  them,  "cannot  be  too  strongly  condemn- 
ed ;  for  whilst  it  impairs  the  wholesomeness  of  the  meat, 
and  makes  it  less  digestible,  it  considerably  diminishes 
the  nutritive  properties  of  it,  and,  boil  it  as  you  will,  a 
piece  of  salt-beef  is  never  so  tender  as  a  piece  of  fresh 
beef."  We,  Anglo-Indians,  can  scarcely  bring  ourselves  to 
accept  this  advice  in  its  entirety ;  our  hump  being  in  itself 
specinlite  worthy  of  admiration  in  any  land.  Neither  will 
Englishmen  ever  be  prevailed  upon  to  deny  themselves 
those  delicious  slices  of  cold  boiled  salted  silverside,  with 
which  they  are  wont  to  regale  themselves  at  breakfast, 
and  at  luncheon  at  home.  Nevertheless,  small  pieces  of 
beef,  boiled  fresh  with  vegetables  are  very  acceptable.  I 
do  not,  for  instance,  think  that  an  ordinary  Indian  brisket 
is  worth  salting ;  it  generally  comes  to  table  hard,  and 
dry,  not  having  sufficient  depth  of  flesh.  Boiled  fresh, 
with  the  allowance  of  vegetables  I  have  mentioned,  this 
joint  will  be  found  nice  enough,  and  if  laid  upon  a  bed  of 
previously  boiled  maccaroni,  and  smothered  in  bright 
tomato  sauce,  you  might  indeed  go  further  and  fare  worse. 
I  fully  agree  with  the  old  rhyme  : — 

"  a  turkey  boiled  is  turkey  spoiled," 
and  I  cannot  understand  any  one  maltreating  that  noble 
bird  so  cruelly.  A  funny  idea  exists  I  know  (one  handed 
down  from  gTand-mama)  that  if  you  give  roast  mutton  or 
beef  at  a  dinner  party,  the  fowls  or  turkey  must  be  hoiled  ! 
What  absurd  nonsense.  You  offer  your  guests  the  choice 
of  white  or  hroivn  meat,  each  dressed  in  its  most  tempting 
form,  you  do  not  bind  yourself  to  give  them  roast,  or 
boiled.  If  the  white  meat  be  equally  nice  boiled,  like 
fowls,   a  leg  of  pork,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  &c.,  you  may,  of 


120  CULIXARV  70TT/XGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

course,  so  serve  it,  but  do  not  run  away  with  the  erroneous 
notion  that  von  vnist  boil  (and  so  spoil)  your  turkey 
because  youi'  other  joint  happen  to  be  a  saddle,  or  a  sirloin. 

The  process  of  ?teamix<;  has  become  familiar  to  many 
people  in  India  on  account  of  the  introduction  of  Warren  s 
cooking-pot,  and  vegetable  sfeajuer.  I  have  been  told  that 
during  the  recent  campaign  in  Afghanistan,  this  utensil 
was  found  invaluable,  and  I  can  well  believe  it. 

The  term  "  steaming"  is  frequently  api)lied  not  only  to 
the  Warren  process,  but  also  to  the  cooking  of  meat  and 
vegetables  placed  in  hermetically  closing  utensils,  which, 
in  turn,  are  plunged  into  larger  vessels  filled  with  boiling 
water. 

Warren's  system  needs  no  description  for  detailed  in- 
structions accompany  every  vessel.  Its  chief  recommen- 
dation consists  in  its  simplicity  and  economy.  Meat  well 
braised  may  be  said  to  be  equally  nutritious,  for  it  is  in 
like  manner  cooked  in  its  own  vapour  and  juices  ;  but  in 
the  matter  of  fuel  braising  is  by  far  the  more  expensive 
method,  while  the  careful  regulation  of  the  heat,  &c.,  costs 
infinitelv  more  trouble  than  the  simple  boiling  of  a  War- 
ren's pot.  The  one  process  requires  the  hand  of  a  chef: 
the  other  can  be  managed  by  any  one. 

The  not  uncommon  practice  of  partly  roasting  a  joint 
after  it  has  been  nearly  cooked  in  a  Warren's  pot  is  erro- 
neous. The  result  can  at  best  be  that  of  meat  half -boiled, 
half-roasted, — "  neither  fish,  nor  fowl,  nor  good  red  her- 
ring," so  to  speak.  A  good  cook  ought,  by  the  clever 
treatment  of  the  gravy  made  by  the  meat,  to  be  able  to 
diversify  both  the  appearance  and  flavour  of  the  joint, 
adding  to  its  attractiveness  by  a  tasteful  garnish  of  mac- 
caroni  or  vegetables. 

The  utmost  cleanliness  is  absolutely  necessary  in  the 
use  of  Warren's  pot. 


BOILING  AND  STEAMING.  121 

Somewhat  similar  in  treatment  is  tlie  process  of  Jugging. 
There  is,  I  think,  a  dish  called  by  Ramasamy  ''  hoil-ed 
chdfs"  (boiled  chops),  cooked  in  this  manner,  which  is 
familiar  to  everj  one  in  this  part  of  India,  and  really 
deserving  of  attention,  for  it  is  susceptible  of  improYement, 
and  far  greater  development.  A  nice  steak ;  a  dish  of 
neck  cutlets  ;  the  blade  bone  of  the  shoulder,  boned  and 
flattened  ;  a  tender  fovrl,  boned  and  flattened  ;  game  simi- 
larly prepared,  and  even  fish,  can  thus  be  dressed  very 
daintily. 

I  advocate  the  making  of  a  vessel  specially  for  "  jugged"' 
dishes,  as  follows  : — An  oval  tin,  ten  inches  long,  and 
seven  and  a  half  inches  across ;  one  inch  and  three- 
quarters  deep.  The  tin  should  have  its  upper  edge  tiu'ned 
outwards  like  a  pie-dish,  half  an  inch  wide,  so  that  a  flat 
cover  may  be  pasted  closely  to  it,  and  it  should  have  a 
ring  at  each  end  to  serve  for  handles.  The  cover  should 
be  an  oval  sheet  of  tin  slightly  larger  in  its  measurements 
than  the  interior  of  the  tin  itself.  A  vessel  of  this  kind 
I  can  strongly  recommend.     I  have  found  mine  invaluable. 

Let  us  first  take  Ramasamy's  "  boiled  chad's.''' — Choose 
a  good  neck  of  mutton,  and  trim  the  little  chops  as  neatly 
as  possible.  With  the  trimmings  of  meat  and  bone  make 
a  broth,  assisted  by  an  onion,  some  pepper  corns,  any 
scraps  of  beef,  chicken  bones,  cold  game,  lean  ham  or 
bacon,  in  short  any  useful  sundries.  When  done,  skim, 
and  strain  it,  you  ought  to  have  a  breakfast-cupful  of  it. 
Xow,  scald  the  tin  and  cool  it  in  cold  water,  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  tin  with  slices  of  onion,  and  arrange  the 
chops  thereon,  covering  them  with  two  Bombay  onions 
Bliced  fine,  a  carrot  sliced,  a  young  turnip  sliced,  a  stick 
of  celery  cut  into  half  inch  lengths,  two  tomatoes  sliced 
and  drained,  and  a  bunch  of  curled  parsley.  Then  add 
to  the  broth  a  liquetu'  glass  of  hrandij,  a  table-spoonful  of 

11 


122  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

mushroom  ketchup,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of 
sugar.  Pepper  the  chops  pretty  freely  with  black  pepper 
before  covering  them.  When  arranged,  pour  in  the  broth, 
and  seal  the  lid  of  the  tin,  all  round  the  rim,  with  stiff 
paste,  fixing  it  secui*ely.  Now,  put  the  tin  into  boiling 
water,  and  keep  it  on  the  fire  for  two  hours.  At  the  time 
of  serving,  the  lid  should  be  cut  off,  and  the  tin,  wrapped 
in  a  napkin,  should  be  placed  upon  an  ordinary  dish,  and 
sent  to  table  immediately. 

Follow  the  same  directions  in  "jugging"  a  steak,  or  a 
blade  bone  :  in  the  case  of  the  boned  fowl,  a  little  bacon, 
or  some  sliced  bologna  sausage,  will  be  found  an  improve- 
ment, the  broth  being  made,  of  course,  from  the  bones 
and  giblets.  With  game  birds  I  would  add  a  little  sweet 
herb  seasoning. 

Fish  should  be  done  in  this  way  : — Trim  the  fish  in 
fillets,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  tin  with  slices  of  Bombay  onion,  dotting  in  a  dozen 
pepper  corns,  and  two  cloves ;  put  a  layer  of  fillets  over 
the  onion,  and  pepper  them  with  black  pepper  ;  put  in  now 
a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  sprinkle  some  roughly-chopped 
curled  parsley  over  them,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped 
capsicums  ;  pour  in  a  little  broth  made  from  the  fish  bones 
and  trimmings,  with  a  glass  of  chablis,  sauterne,  or  hock, 
cover  the  tin  closely,  and  boil.  A  clove  of  garlic  may  be 
introduced  in  this  dish  by  those  who  appreciate  the  faint- 
est suspicion  of  that  fragrant  bulb,  and  the  fine  rind  of  a 
lime  also. 

If  made  of  two  or  three  sorts  of  little  fishes,  with  a 
pinch  of  saffron,  and,  instead  of  the  broth,  a  libation  com- 
posed of  one  table-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  chablis,  and  three  of  water,  the  effect  will  be  pleasing 
to  those  who  have  eaten,  and  enjoyed  a  houillahaisse,  for 
the  broth  produced  by  the  fish  and  ingredients  I  have 
named  is  not  unlike  that  excellent  composition. 


1 


BOILING  AND  STEAMING.  123 

In  my  last  chapter  I  dwelt  upon  the  invaluable  culinary 
process  known  as  braising,  and  tried  to  point  out  the 
special  adaptability  of  that  method  of  cookery  to  the  treat- 
ment of  the  small  and  often  indifferently  fed  meat  of  this 
country.  I  did  not  however  allude  to  a  simpler  yet  scarcely 
less  noteworthy  kind  of  braise  by  which  is  produced  that 
very  excellent  dish  called  bceuf  'a  la  mode  :  There  is  per- 
haps no  name  in  the  French  vocabulary  de  cuisine  more 
frequently  "  taken  irf  vain"  by  English  cooks,  as  well  as 
by  poor  Ramasamy,  than  this.  As  a  rule  they  apply  the 
term  to  a  joint  of  cold  roast  beef  when  warmed  up  en 
recliauffe,  and  sent  to  table  smothered  with  a  thick  sance 
browned  with  burnt  onion,  and  surrounded  by  sodden 
vegetables  !  l^ow,  hoetif  a  la  mode  is  very  far  from  being 
a  rechauffe.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  a  carefully  selected 
piece  of  fresh  meat  scientifically  stewed  with  vegetables. 
Its  rich,  self-made  gravy  is  not  thickened,  and  its  garnish 
should  be  composed  of  vegetables  separately  trimmed  and 
cooked  for  that  purpose. 

!N"o  better  recipe  can  possibly  be  found  than  that  given 
by  Gouffe  quoted  by  Sir  Henry  Thompson  as  follows : — 

"  Take  about  4  lbs.  (2  hilos)  of  thick  beefsteak  cut 
square.  Take  nearly  f  lb.  (3  hectos)  of  raw  fat  bacon,  cut 
off  the  rind,  which  should  be  put  aside  to  blanche,  and  then 
cut  the  bacon  in  strips  for  larding,  about  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  sprinkle  them  with  pepper.  Lard  the 
meat,  and  tie  it  up  as  for  the  pot-au-feu.  Place  the  piece 
of  meat  in  a  stew-pan  with  rather  less  than  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  a  wine-glass  of  brandy,  a  pint  of  stock,  a  pint 
of  water,  two  calves'  feet  already  boned  and  blanched,  and 
the  rind  of  the  bacon  also  blanched.  Put  it  on  the  fire 
adding  a  little  less  than  one  ounce  of  salt  (30  grammes). 
Make  it  boil,  and  skim  it  as  for  pot-au-feu  ;  next,  having 
skimmed  it,  add  fully  one  pound  (500  grammes)  of  carrots, 


^24  CULINARY  JOTTIXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

one  onion,  three  cloves,  one  faggot  of  herbs,  and  two 
pinches  of  pepper.  Place  the  stew-pan  on  the  corner  of 
the  stove,  cover  it,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  veiy  gently  for 
four  hours  and  a  half.  Tiy  the  meat  with  a  skewer  to 
ascertain  when  it  is  sufficiently  cooked,  then  put  it  on  a 
dish  with  the  carrots  and  the  calves'  feet,  and  keep  them 
covered  up  hot  until  serving." 

"  Next,  strain  the  gravy  tlirough  a  fine  tammy  ;  remove 
carefully  eveiy  atom  of  grease,  and  reduce  it  over  the  fire 
about  a  quarter.  Lastly,  untie  the  beef,  place  it  on  the 
dish  for  serving,  add  the  calves'  feet  each  having  been 
cut  into  eight  pieces,  the  cari'ots  cut  into  pieces  the  size 
of  corks,  and  ten  glazed  onions.  Ai'range  the  calves'  feet, 
the  cari'ots,  and  onions  round  the  beef,  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  meat  keeping  the  surplus  for  the  next  day.  Taste  it 
in  order  to  ascertain  if  sufficiently  seasoned.  Beef  a  la 
mode  should  be  very  relishing  :  sometimes  a  clove  of  garlic 
is  added.  I  do  not  mention  this  as  a  necessary  item, 
but  as  one  which  must  be  decided  by  the  lady  of  the 
house." 

Those  who  desire  to  enjoy  the  true  hceiif  a  la  mode  will 
do  well  to  follow  this  recipe  in  its  entirety.  Observe  that 
the  piece  of  meat  should  be  cut  en  bloc  from  the  rumj) 
steak  and  have  no  bone.  The  white  wine  may  be  chahlis, 
santerne,  graves,  or  hock.  The  remains  of  a  good  bottle  of 
champagne  left  the  night  before — '  still,'  yet  perfectly 
sound — would  be  admirable.  Four  sheep's  feet  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  calves'.  The  boiling  should,  in  the 
first  instance,  be  retarded  (as  in  the  case  of  the  pot-aii-fen) 
by  the  addition  from  time  to  time  of  a  little  cold  water. 
This  will  cause  the  scum  to  rise,  all  of  which  should  be 
taken  off  before  the  addition  of  the  vegetables.  I  would 
always  put  in  a  leek  if  I  could  get  one,  and  some  pieces  of 
celery  also.     Please  note  that  the  gravy  should  be  boiled 


BOILING  AND  STEAMING.  125 

down  a  little  to  add  to  its  strength,  but  not  tliickened  with 
butter  and  flour. 

Larger  pieces  of  beef  can  be  cooked  in  this  manner,  in- 
gi'edients  in  proportion  to  the  extra  weight  being  added. 
Indeed  Gouffe  says  : — "  I  advise  in  regard  of  all  braised 
meats,  whether  beef  or  veal,  that  the  portions  should  be 
rather  too  large  than  too  small ;  a  long  process  of  cooking 
succeeds  always  better  with  such  than  with  tiny  portions. 
A  second  excellent  dish  can  always  be  made,  cold,  with 
the  addition  of  jelly.  It  appears  to  me  better  then,  to 
eat  twice  following  of  a  good  dish  thus  varied,  than  to 
cook  the  small  quantity  which  suffices  only  for  one  meal." 
This  advice  can  be  followed  with  advantage  during  the 
cold  season,  and  at  our  Hill  stations. 


.^^. 


Our  Vegetables, 


^^TRITICS  of  English  cookery  seem  to  agree  m  saymg 
^^^^  that,  wanting  as  we  are,  as  a  rule,  in  our  general 
knowledge  of  kitchen  work,  our  ignorance  of  the 
ti'eatment  of  vegetables  is  greater  than  in  every  other 
branch  of  the  art.  Until  comparatively  lately,  the  uni- 
versal method  of  serving  vegetables  at  an  English  dinner 
table  was  with  the  joint  alone.  Dressed  vegetables,  or 
entremets  de  legumes^  wei*e  never  heaixi  of.  Of  late  years, 
however,  facilities  in  the  way  of  travelling  abroad  have 
been  great,  and  by  degrees  the  Briton  has  come  to  appre- 
ciate a  dish  of  vegetables,  specially  prepared,  such  as  he 
liked  so  much  in  Paris,  at  Dieppe,  Nice,  Monaco,  or  Pau  ; 
and  Martha  has  been  "  worritted,"  on  the  return  of  the 
family  to  England,  to  "  mess  about  the  cauliflower  with 
cheese,"  or  send  up  the  green  peas  in  solitary  grandeur. 
A  fillip  has,  in  this  way,  been  given  to  vegetable  cookery 
in  England,  and  peojDle  with  any  claims  to  refined  taste 
have  at  last  come  to  perceive  the  absolute  barbarism  of 
heaping  up  two  or  three  sorts  of  vegetables  on  the  same 
plate  with  roast  meat  and  gravy. 

From  time  immemorial  tinned  asparagus, — served  alone, 
has  occupied  a  prominent  place  in  the  menu  of  a  dinner  in 
India.     I  have  often  wondered  how  this  spark  of  civiJiza- 


OUR  VEGETABLES.  12  7 

tion  became  kindled,  and  why  the  example  thus  given  was 
never  more  generally  followed  with  regard  to  other  vege- 
tables. 

It  will  be,  I  think,  admitted  nem  con  that  we  live  in  a 
climate  out  here  especially  demanding  vegetable  diet. 
With  the  thermometer  indicating  90  °  or  thereabouts,  plain 
animal  food  is  not  only  distasteful  to  many,  but  absolutely 
unwholesome.  We  cannot,  therefore,  devote  too  much 
attention  to  the  cookery  of  vegetables. 

Let  us  consider  what  we  have  got  under  three  heads  : — 

(a) — English  vegetables  grown  in  India. 

(h) — Country  vegetables. 

(c) — Vegetables  preserved  in  tins. 

At  different  periods  during  the  year  we  can  get  in 
Madras  : — potatoes,  green  peas,  cauliflowers,  cabbages, 
spinach,  artichokes  (Jerusalem),  and  globe  artichokes 
from  the  Hills,  French  beans,  carrots,  parsnips,  turnips, 
knolkhol,  celery,  marrows,  leeks,  cucumbers,  tomatoes, 
lettuces,  beetroot,  endive,  and  onions  :  all  under  head 
number  one. 

Under  head  number  two  we  have,  brinjals,  bandecai, 
various  beans,  country  cucumber,  and  gTeens  (which  cook 
well  as  spinach),  moringa  pods,  small  tomato  or  love  apple, 
maize,  {mucha  cJioliim)  sorrel,  pumpkin,  yams,  onions  large 
and  small,  garlic,  and  sweet  potato. 

For  head  number  three,  which  we  will  take  separately, 
we  must  consult  the  list  of  preserved  French,  and  American 
vegetables  published  by  any  well-known  Firm. 

I  have  omitted  asparagus,  seakale,  and  salsify,  from  my 
list  under  the  first  head,  as  those  excellent  vegetables  have 
not  yet  been  cultivated  by  the  gardeners  of  Bangalore  or 
the  Neilgherries  in  sufficient  quantity  to  form  a  portion  of 
the  vegetable  supply    of    our  markets.     For  the    benefit 


128  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

however,  of  such  enterprising  amateurs  as  may  be  able  to 
grow  them  privately,  I  will  mention  how  each  should  be 
treated  by  the  cook  hereafter. 

Potatoes  perhaps  claim  the  most  important  place  in  our 
consideration,  so  let  us  take  them  first. 

The  boiling  of  a  potato  has  long  been  considered  one  of 
the  tests  by  which  the  merits  of  a  cook  should  be  decided. 
•'  Can  she  cook  a  chop,  and  boil  a  potato  ?"  is  often  the 
modest  query  of  pater  f ami  lias  in  England,  and  in  nine 
cases  out  of  ten  you  may  wager  your  best  hat  that  she  can 
do  neither.  Nevertheless,  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion 
that  cooks  are  in  many  cases  wrongfully  blamed  in  the 
matter  of  potato-cooking,  that  is  to  say,  that  their  failure 
is  often  attributed  to  the  wrong  cause.  We  all  know  that 
the  potato  grows  capriciously  according  to  the  weather  i< 
may  have  enjoyed,  or  have  suffered  from.  A  crop  will 
sometimes  prove  mealy,  and  light,  for  the  table,  and  at 
other  times  waxy,  and  heavy.  It  is  therefore  obvious  that 
we  should  find  out  the  merits  or  demerits  of  the  tubers  we 
buy,  before  we  give  oui'  orders  regarding  their  treatment 
in  the  kitchen.  We  ought  not  to  expect  all  potatoes  to 
turn  out  equally  floury  as  a  matter  of  course,  and  blame 
the  cook  if  he  fail  so  to  serve  them. 

There  are  fortunately  so  many  ways  of  cooking  potatoes 
that  we  need  never  be  at  a  loss  for  a  recipe.  If  nice  and 
mealy  we  can,  of  course,  boil,  or  steam  them, — the  latter 
method  for  choice, — and  serve  them  plainly  :  but  if  waxy, 
we  must  proceed  differently. 

Whether  boiled,  or  steamed,  a  potato  ought  not  to  be 
peeled  ;  if  it  be  very  old,  you  cannot  avoid  removing  the 
akin  and  eyes,  but,  in  a  general  way,  a  potato  is  far  better 
cooked  "  in  its  jacket."  When  done,  the  skin  can  be 
removed,  if  you  wish,  in  the  kitchen,    and  the    dish  bo 


i 


OUR  VEGETABLES.  129 

served  plain,  or  in  any  one  of  the  ways  I   shall  presently 
speak  of. 

The  '•  Gr.  C,"  says  : — "  After  they  have  been  carefully 
washed,  put  your  potatoes,  unpeeled,  into  a  sauce-pan, 
filled  with  cold-water  to  the  height  of  about  an  inch,  then 
sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  place  a  wet  cloth  on  the  top 
of  them.  The  sauce-pan  should  be  then  put  on  the  fire, 
and  in  about  half  an  hour,  drawn  upon  the  kitchener  (at 
the  side  of  the  fire)  to  remain  hot  till  the  potatoes  are 
wanted." 

Choose  potatoes  as  much  of  a  size  as  you  can  for  boiling  : 
do  not  boil  a  large  and  two  small  ones  together  if  you  can 
help  it.  "When  jDotatoes  are  boiled  in  the  ordinary  fashion  ; 
that  is,  placed  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  due  allowance  of  salt, 
and  covered  well  with  cold  water,  they  should  be  lifted, 
and  drained  after  half  an  hour's  cooking,  and  then  be 
returned  to  the  hot,  empty  sauce-pan,  covered  with  a  wet 
cloth,  and  placed  at  the  margin  of  the  fire  to  keep  hot,  and 
to  dry  themselves  thoroughly. 

In  boiling  potatoes  in  the  ordinary  method,  it  is  a  good 
thing  to  check  the  rate  of  cooking,  every  now  and  then,  by 
adding  a  little  cold  water,  and  the  time  ought  to  be, — after 
boiling  commences, — from  eighteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

'•  Steamed  potatoes"  should  be  scraped,  picked,  and 
wiped,  after  having  been  set  for  five  minutes  or  so  in  cold- 
water.  Then  place  them  in  the  steamer  over  boiling 
water,  and  let  them  steam  till  done  :  the  time  may  vary 
from  twenty  to  forty  minutes  :  the  fork  (or  a  skewer) 
should  go  through  them  easily,  if  not,  they  are  not  done 
A  minute  in  a  fast  oven  will  dry  them  if  needful. 

New  potatoes  should  be  scrubbed,  rubbed  with  a  coarse 
cloth,  and  boiled  or  steamed  according  to  taste  :  you  cannot 
expect  them  to  be  very  mealy,  of  course,  and  with  some 
people  their  waxiness  constitutes  their  chief  charm. 


130  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Having  boiled  or  steamed  our  potato  satisfactorily,  let 
us  see  in  how  many  ways  we  may  serye  it,  presuming  that 
we  have  turned  it  out  as  flourily  as  we  could  desire. 

First,  of  course,  it  may  be  sent  up  plainly,  either  in  its 
skin,  or  crumbled  in  to  the  dish  made  hot  to  receive  it. 
Secondly,  it  may  be  turned  out  upon  a  wire  sieve,  be 
nibbed  through  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  dished  plainly 
in  that  form  as  "  potato-snow"  ponunes  de  terre  rapees. 
Lastly,  it  may  be  mashed,  and  I  maintain  that  true  mashed 
potato  can  only  be  produced  from  a  mealy  tuber.  A  good 
way  to  mash  potatoes  is  to  break  them  up  first  in  the  dry 
hot  sauce-pan  in  which  they  were  boiled,  working  them 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  adding  as  much  butter  as 
you  can  spare,  a  little  milk,  and  some  salt.  When  fairly 
well  mashed,  to  pass  them  through  the  sieve  so  as  to  catch 
the  knots,  and  then  to  form  them  as  you  like, — browning 
the  mould  in  front  of  the  fire,  or  in  the  oven  before  serving. 

If  you  want  to  get  i}is.t  for eigji  taste,  which  many  people 
fancy  in  mashed  potatoes,  try  the  following  method  : — 
when  your  potatoes  are  nicely  boiled,  and  drained,  turn 
them  back  into  their  sauce-pan,  which,  during  the  drain- 
ing, you  must  ruh  lightly  with  garlic  :  go  on  as  previously 
described,  be  liberal  with  your  butter,  and  instead  of  the 
milk,  add  a  little  stock  from  the  soup  kettle.  A  dust  of 
pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  will  complete  the  puree,  for 
remember  that  mashed  potato  abroad  goes  by  the  name  of 
puree  de  pommes  de  terre,  and  is  sent  to  table  not  nearly  as 
stiffly  moulded  as  ours. 

Mashed  potato  brings  as  to  more  elaborate  forms  of  potato 
cookery,  viz.  : — a  la  Duchesse,  croquettes,  ^'c. 

Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse  should  be  well  worked  through 
the  sieve,  enriched  with  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs, 
and  a  gill  of  cream,  and  given  a  delicate  flavouring  of  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,   and  chopped  parsley :  then  rolled  into 


OUR  VEGETABLES.  131 

balls,  and  either  fried  gently  in  butter,  or  broomed  in  tlie 
oven  on  a  buttered  tin,  having  been  previonfily  brushed 
over  with  egg,  and  bread  crumbed  with  very  fine  stale 
crumbs. 

'A  la  "  Gr.  C." — A  Bombay  onion,  boiled  yery  soft,  should 
be  beaten,  hot,  with  four  times  its  bulk  of  potato ;  butter, 
cream,  pepper,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  salt  should  be 
added,  and  the  whole  passed  through  the  sieve  :  roll  this 
mixture  into  balls,  and  treat  them  as  laid  down  for  the 
Vuchesse. 

Boulettes  de  jpommes  de  terre  are  very  tasty  : — Mash  eight 
fairly-sized  potatoes,  pass  the  puree  through  the  sieve, 
work  into  it  the  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  season  it  with  a  little 
finely-minced  parsley  and  marjoram ;  moisten  it  with 
enough  cream  to  bring  it  to  the  consistency  of  thin  paste  ; 
add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dust  of  nutmeg ;  lastly,  add  the 
whites  of  three  of  the  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pre- 
pare a  bath  of  boiling  fat,  and  then  fry  the  boulettes  by 
passing  tea-spoonfuls  of  the  paste  one  after  the  other  into 
the  fat.  As  each  little  spoonful  reaches  the  fat,  it  will 
swell  up,  and  as  soon  as  it  tuims  a  rich  golden  yellow,  it 
is  done.  These  can  only  be  successful  when  the  potato  is 
dry,  and  floury. 

Croquettes  can  be  made  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  left  from 
a  previous  meal.  You  must  work  them  very  much  as  pre- 
viously described,  flavouring  them  with  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  a  very  little  shallot,  a  little  chopped  thyme  or  mar- 
joram, or  spices  if  you  like  :  form  them  into  rolls  or  tablets, 
and  fry  them  a  golden  brown.  The  art  of  the  cook  will  be 
made  manifest  by  his  presenting  you  with  a  tasty-looking 
morsel,  of  the  right  colour,  and  delicately  flavoured. 
Change  can,  of  course,  be  obtained  by  selecting  herbs,  <tc., 
according  to  your  pleasure. 

In  frying  croquettes,  duchesses,  Sf'c,  it  is  a  sine  qua  )ion  to 


132  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

nse  plenty  of  fat.  and  to  see  that  it  is  boiling.  If  the  fry- 
ing medium  be  not  hot  enough,  and  insufficient  in  quantity, 
you  will  never  get  the  golden  colour  which  perfection 
demands. 

Waxy  potatoes,  with  the  exception  previously  men- 
tioned of  new  ones,  should  never  be  served  plainly  boiled  : 
you  should  direct  them  to  be  cooked  in  one  of  the  follow- 
ing ways  : — a  la  maitre  d' hotel,  a  la  Lyonnaise,  saufees,  a 
VAviericaine,  <5'c. 

Potatoes  sautees  (not  to  be  confounded  please  with 
potatoes  f  rites)  should  be  treated  in  this  manner  : — Boil 
your  potatoes,  then  slice  them  moderately  thickly,  and 
toss  them  in  plenty  of  butter  in  your  frying-pan  till  they 
colour  nicely,  pour  the  brown  butter  over  them,  and  give 
them  a  dust  of  salt. 

For  maitre  d'hStel  proceed  as  above,  adding  a  few  drops 
of  lime  juice,  a  heaped  up  table-spoonful  of  very  finely 
chopped  curled  parsley,  and  half  a  cupful  of  broth.* 

Potatoes  a  la  Lyonnaise  are  achieved  by  first  frying  a 
Bombay  onion  (chopped  small)  in  butter  till  it  begins  to 
brown,  then  adding  a  wine-glass  of  broth  with  your  pieces 
of  potato,  tossing  them  till  coloured,  and  finally  giving 
them  a  dust  of  pepper  and  salt. 

For  a  la  Proven ^ale,  proceed  as  above,  adding  a  little 
finely  pared  lime-peel,  some  chopped  parsley,  a7i  atom  of 
garlic,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dust  of  grated  nutmeg.  When 
serving,  sprinkle  a  little  lime  juice  over  the  potatoes. 

Potatoes  a  V  Americaine  : — Cut  up  your  boiled  potatoes 
into  thick  slices  :  flavour  a  little  milk  with  onion,  spice, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  strain  and  thicken  it,  as  laid  down  for 
melted  butter,  with  butter  and  flour,  till  you  have  a  nice 

*  Or  the  slices  may  be  tossed  in  maitre  d'hutel  butter,  with  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  broth. — W. 


OUR  VEGETABLES.  lot> 


sauce  hlancke  ;  place  your  slices  of  potato  in  this,  and  heat 
them  up  to  boiling  point :  take  the  sauce-pan  off  the  fire, 
stir  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  with  a  pat  of  butter  the  size  of  a  rupee,  and  serve. 

Potatoes  a  la  Farisienne  are  slices  of  potato  gently 
heated  up  in  sauce  soiihise. 

Waxy  potatoes,  pressed  through  the  sieve,  and  served 
like  vermicelli, — a  favorite  dish  of  Eamasamy's, — ought 
to  be  most  strenuously  interdicted. 

There  is  perhaps  no  nicer  way  of  serving  potatoes  with 
chops,  steaks,  grilled  chicken,  roast  pigeons,  &c.,  than  in 
the  form  of  "chips,"  i.e.,  Pommes  de  terre  frites.  An 
invalid,  as  a  rule,  takes  a  fancy  to  a  potato  thus  plainly 
cooked,  and  it  is  a  quicker  way  of  doing  it  than  by  any  of 
the  other  recipes. 

In  the  first  place,  after  washing  the  potatoes  vrell,  peel 
them,  and  slice  them  carefully  a  uniform  thickness — about 
half  that  of  a  rupee  say — and  spread  them  on  a  clean  cloth 
to  get  rid  of  the  moisture.  Wipe  them  thoroughly,  and 
spread  a  sheet  of  blotting  paper  ready  for  draining  the 
chips  hereafter.  !N"ow,  dissolve  a  goodly  allowance  of  beef 
dripping  (or  Avhatever  you  use  for  your  frying  medium) 
in  your/rt7?tre-pan,  or  a  shallow  stew-pan;  when  quite 
boiling,  drop  in  your  potato  slices — there  should  be  enough 
fat  to  completely  cover  them — and  let  them,  as  it  were,  boil 
therein  :  watch  them  as  they  are  cooking  narrowly,  turn- 
ing and  moving  them  about  continually,  and  as  soon  as 
they  assume  the  golden  tint  you  want, — a  nice  rich  yellow, 
mind, — lift  them  quickly  from  the  fat,  and  let  them  drain 
on  the  blotting  paper  for  a  minute  or  two.  When  quite 
dry,  turn  them  into  a  very  hot  silver  dish  (or  garnish  the 
dish,  with  which  they  are  to  go,  with  them)  and  serve. 

The  main  points  to  note  here  are,  first  the  equal  thick- 
ness of  the  slices,  for  if  cut  both  thick  and  thin,  the  latter 

U 


134  CULINARY  yOTTIXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

will  be  done  more  quickly  than  the  former,  and  it  is  no 
easy  thing  to  fish  out  the  pieces  that  have  taken  colour 
from  those  that  have  not.  Drying  the  chips  well  is  essen- 
tial number  two,  plenty  of  fat  the  third,  and  careful 
drainage  when  done  the  fourth. 

Poinmes  de  terre  f rites  may  be  trimmed  into  various 
shapes, — filberts,  dominoes,  long  narrow  strips,  &c.,  and 
cooked  exactly  as  "  chips."  Uniformity  in  size  is  again 
necessary,  and  careful  wiping  before  cooking.  The  cook 
must  be  a  bit  of  an  artist  too  in  designing  his  patterns,  or 
there  will  be  sad  waste  in  the  cutting. 

A  set  of  French  vegetable  cutters  will  be  found  most 
useful  and  economical  for  trimming  purposes. 

Ignorant  cooks  are  apt  to  confound  "  potato  chips," 
with  "  fried  potatoes  :"  this  should  be  explained  away. 
"  Fried  potatoes,"  Pomvies  de  terre  sautees,  are  slices  of 
boiled  potato  tossed  about  in  butter  in  the  5a?(^e-pan  till 
lightly  coloured.  The  "  chips,"  Pommes  de  terre  frites,  are 
thin  slices  of  raiv  potato  absolutely  boiled  in  fat  in  the 
/ri72<  ?-e-pan. 

"  Mock  new  potatoes"  make  a  nice  dish  for  a  change, 
and  can  be  contrived  out  of  a  waxy  tuber  that  refuses  to 
be  boiled  flourily.  Boil  the  potatoes  as  usual,  and  when 
nearly  done,  cut  them  into  pieces  the  shape  and  size  of  a 
pigeon's  egg :  make  a  flour  and  butter  sauce  hlanche 
slightly  flavoured  with  mace,  and  put  the  pieces  of  potato 
into  it.  Simmer  the  potatoes  in  the  sauce,  and  when 
thoroughly  done,  serve.  Chopped  parsley,  a  coffee-cupful 
of  milk  in  which  the  yolk  of  an  egg  has  been  stirred,  and 
a  lump  of  butter,  may  be  added  at  the  last  moment. 


Peas  (petits  pais)  may  be  boiled,  cooked  in  the  jar,  or 
stewed.  It  is  a  sine  qua  non  that  boiled  peas  be  young 
and  fresh.     You  never  get  a  dish  of  peas  equal  to  those 


OUR  VEGETABLES.  135 

gathered  in  jour  own  garden  :  those  bought  in  the  Indian 
market  are,  as  a  rule,  far  too  old,  having  been  allowed  to 
attain  the  largest  size  possible.  I  have  eaten  peas  from  my 
own  garden  at  Bangalore,  and  Secunderabad,  as  delicious  as 
could  be  desired.  They  were  small,  because  the  pods  were 
cut  with  their  contents  scarcely  more  than  three  parts 
developed,  but  for  flavour  and  tenderness,  they  could  not 
have  been  better.  During  our  winter  season  at  Madras  we 
can  grow  our  own  peas,  and  surely  the  trouble  is  slight 
when  we  consider  the  result. 

For  boiled  peas  : — Put  one  quart  of  water  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  green 
mint  on  the  fire  :  when  it  boils,  pour  in  a  pint  measure  of 
shelled  peas  ;  boil  quickly  ;  when  done,  drain,  and  turn 
them  out  upon  a  frying-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter, 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  finely-pounded  sugar  over  them, 
work  the  pan  till  the  butter  melts,  and  is  blended  with  peas, 
then  empty  them  upon  a  hot  dish  and  serve.     (Gouffe.) 

"  Peas  in  the  jar." — This  is  to  my  thinking  the  best  way 
of  cooking  peas.  You  get  the  whole  flavour  of  them,  they 
are  rarely  overdone  '  to  a  mash,'  as  boiled  peas  in  clumsy 
.hands  often  are,  and  even  old  peas  become  tender  and 
eatable  by  such  treatment.  Having  shelled  half  a  pint  of 
peas,  put  them  into  a  two-pound  jam  jar,  with  a  screw 
lid, — or  a  block  tin  can  with  a  closely  fitting  top, — (the 
vessel  must  be  completely  closed)  and  put  in  with  them  a 
table-spoonful  of  tinned  butter,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  dozen  mint  leaves,  and 
a  very  little  black  pepper.  Cover  the  vessel  do^vn  tightly, 
and  immerse  it  in  a  stew-pan,  or  hain-marie  half  full  of 
boiling  water.  Set  the  latter  on  the  fire  and  boil  briskly  : 
the  peas  should  be  examined  in  half  an  hour  by  which 
time,  if  very  young,  they  should  be  done. 

The  French  tinned  peas  are  excellent  when  thus  heated 
up.     A    quarter   of  an  hour  is   ample :    they   should    be 


136  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

di-ained  from  the  '  tin'  liquor,  and  washed  in  '  two  or  three 
waters,'  as  cooks  say ;  that  is,  fresh  water  should  be  poured 
over  them  two  or  three  times.  The  fresh  butter,  mint, 
&c.,  resuscitate  the  peas  wondei-fully. 

Old  peas  may  be  stewed  (pet  it  spots  accommodcs)  thus  : — 
Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  Avitli  a  Bombay  onion 
sliced,  a  bunch  of  mint  and  paisley,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt ;  cook  this  awhile  till  the  onions  take  a  pale  colour, 
and  then  add  the  peas,  vnih.  as  much  broth  as  will  just 
float  them :  simmer  this  patiently  till  the  peas  are 
thoroughly  tender,  then  take  up  the  pan,  strain  the  liquor» 
spread  out  the  peas  on  a  dish  and  pick  out  the  pieces  of 
onion ;  now  thicken  the  liquor  witli  butter  and  flour,  add- 
ing a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  lastly,  the  peas  again  • 
stir  well,  bring  the  sauce-pan  to  steaming  point,  and  serve. 

But,  after  all,  there  is  no  way  of  turning  old  peas  to  a 
satisfactory  account  as  good  as  the  puree.  For  this,  boil 
them  as  previously  described,  and  then  work  them  through 
the  sieve.  When  you  have  got  them  through,  add  butter, 
a  little  black  pepper,  salt,  a  very  little  sugar,  with  a 
spoonful  of  cream  or  good  milk,  and  serve  in  a  small 
mould. 

The  flavour  of  lettuce  is  strongly  recommended  by  some 
writers  as  a  help  to  peas,  and  onions  are  also  advocated. 
The  lettuce  should  be  shred,  and  put  in  Avith  the  peas  to 
start  with,  and  the  onion  should  go  in  whole,  both  being 
removed  when  the  peas  are  served.  A  slice  of  fat  bacon 
is  a  capital  thing  to  slip  in  with  "  jugged  peas." 

Peas  form  a  favorite  entremets  alone  ;  they  should  be, 
of  course,  carefully  di-essed,  and  served  as  hot  as  possible. 
The  following  styles  arc  recommended  : — 

1.  ''^  Petifs  20ois  au  he^trre,^' — boiled,  or  jugged  peas, 
served  with  a  pat  of  fresh  butter  melted  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, and  mixed  with  them  at  the  last  moment. 


OUR  VEGETABLES.  137 

2.  "  A   la  creme" — a   coffee-cupful   of   boiling   cream 
poured  over  tlieni  just  as  you  serve. 

3.  "  Au  jamhon,"" — finely  minced  liam,  tossed  in  "butter 
and  lightly  fried,  mixed  with  boiled,  or  jugged  peas. 

4.  "  Au  lard,'^ — the  same  method,  using  bacon  instead 
of  ham.     The  bacon  atoms  should  be  nice  and  crisp. 

5.  The  "p«?-ee,"  previously  described. 


French  beans  (haricots  verts,)  are  well  worthy  of  our 
attention,  for  we  can  get  them  when  other  vegetables  are  out 
of  season.  They  are,  besides,  the  correct  accompaniment 
of  the  roast  saddle,  the  roast  loin,  and,  of  course,  of  venison. 

I^ow,  there  is  a  very  common  and  very  grievous  mistake, 
which  cooks — in  India  especially — are  prone  to  make. 
They  slice  the  pods  of  this  bean  into  thin  strips.  By  doing 
this,  nearly  all  the  flavour  of  the  bean  is  lost.  The  pods, 
which  must  be  gathered  young,  should  be  simply  peeled 
all  round  to  get  rid  of  the  delicate  fibre,  their  ends  should 
be  nipped  off,  and  they  should  then  be  plunged  into  toiling 
water  : — a  pinch  of  soda  will  preserve  their  bright  green 
tint,  and  at  least  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  sugar 
should  be  mixed  with  the  water.  If  quite  young,  there 
will  be  no  fibre  to  remove. 

To  preserve  the  green  tint,  the  following  plan  is  also 
recommended  : — Put  a  large  spoonful  of  wood  ashes  in  a 
piece  of  linen,  fold  it  up,  and  place  it  in  a  strainer,  pouring 
the  boiling  water  in  which  the  beans  are  to  be  cooked 
over  it.  This  plan  is  equally  efi&cacious  with  globe  arti- 
chokes, cabbages,  &c.     (Audot.) 

I  have  however  found  that  French  beans  grown  in  India 
lose  so  much  of  their  flavour  by  being  hailed  that  I  have 
adopted  steaming  them  in  an  ordinary  vegetable  steamer. 
The  pods  may  be  cut  across  into  lengths  of  an  inch  and  a 


138  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

half  to  facilitate  operations.  Be  sure  that  the  beans  are 
quite  young,  or  they  will  be  tough.  As  soon  as  the  fibre 
round  the  pods  becomes  stringy,  they  are  too  old. 

Having  cooked  the  beans  to  your  satisfaction,  you  can 
serve  them  in  the  following  excellent  methods,  and  always 
secure  a  nice  entremets  with  them  if  you  like  : — 

1.  "  Aux  fines  herhes.'' — Turn  them  out  into  a  hot  dish, 
melt  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  little  sauce-pan  with  some  finely- 
chopped  parsley,  some  common  garden  cress,  some  finely- 
minced  shallot  if  approved,  some  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of 
gi'ated  nutmeg, — pour  over  the  beans,  and  serve. 

2.  "  Au  sauce  blanche.^' — Make  a  sauce  hlanche  with 
flour  and  melted  butter,  some  of  the  water  in  which  the 
beans  were  cooked,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  stir 
into  this  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  or  a  spoonful  of  cream, 
give  it  two  or  three  drops  of  lime-juice,  and  add  as  above. 

3.  "  Au  sauce  au  fromage.'" — Make  a  sauce  blanche  as 
above,  enrich  it  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  little 
milk  or  cream,  dredge  into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  mild 
grated  cheese,  and  pom-  it  over  the  beans  piping  hot. 

4.  "  Au  lard.'' — Mince  some  fat  bacon  with  a  little 
shallot,  and  work  them  awhile  in  the  sauce-pan  :  add  the 
boiled  French  beans,  toss  them  about  for  a  minute  or  two, 
and  serve. 

5.  "  A  la  creme.'" — Pour  a  coffee-cupful  of  boiling  cream 
over  the  beans. 

6.  "  A  la  maitre  dlwtel.^' — Stir  a  table-spoonful  of 
maitre  dliotel  butter  into  them  when  piping  hot. 

A  well-made  tomato  sauce,  souhise  sauce,  or  a  rich 
veloute,  are  all  applicable  to  French  beans  :  and  a  pnulette 
made  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  and  some  of  the  water  in 
which  the  beans  were  cooked,  thickened  with  yolks  of 
eggSj  and  seasoned  with  salt,  assists  them  greatly. 


OUR  VEGETABLES.  139 

French,  beans,  cold,  make  a  capital  salad  :  I  must,  how- 
ever, reserve  that  form  of  serving  them  for  discnssion 
elsewhere. 

English  people  are  apt  to  ignore  the  leans  of  haricots 
verts,  kidney  beans,  scarlet  runners,  and  dwarf  beans, 
which  when  shelled  green,  and  served  in  various  ways  are 
known  abroad  as  flageolets.  As  a  rule  we  try  to  eat  the 
pods  long  after  they  have  outgrown  their  edible  stage,  and 
have  become  stringy  and  tough.  Now,  the  young  bean 
when  about  three  parts  grown  is  delicious,  and,  omitting 
the  mint,  may  be  cooked  as  laid  down  for  peas  and  served 
as  recommended  for  haricots  verts.  Flageolets  a  la  creme, 
a  la  poulette,  or  a  la  mattre  d'hotel,  make  quite  a  first  class 
entremets. 

Haeicots  verts  paxaches,  a  capital  dish,  is  composed  of 
young  green  pods  and  shelled  beans  mixed  together.  You 
can  thus  dispose  of  the  old  pods,  and  use  the  tender  ones  to 
the  best  advantage.  This  recipe  will  be  found  useful  by 
those  who  grow  their  own  beans. 

N.  B. — The  water  in  which  peas  or  beans  are  boiled, 
"  eau  de  la  cuisson,^^  is,  remember,  a  loeah  stoch.  Use  it 
when  making  your  sauce  blanche  in  preference  to  milk  or 
plain  water. 

The  pepper  used  with  these  vegetables  should  be  black, 
and  freshly  ground.  For  this  you  should  possess  one  of 
the  newly  introduced  pepper-mills. 


OIEiu^X^'TEI^      ^ 


Vegetables— concluded. 

'^^XHJlXGiY,^  (chmx)  must  be  carefully  washed,  tlicir 
dead  and  bruised  leaves  removed,  and  their  stalks 
trimmed  neatly.  They  must  then  be  soaked  in  salt 
and  water,  (cold)  to  get  rid  of  insects,  caterpillars,  Sac. 
When  satisfied  that  they  are  fit  to  cook,  plunc^e  them  into 
boiling  water  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  bit  of  soda 
and  lift  them  as  soon  as  your  test  with  the  skewer  assures 
you  that  they  are  done.  Pressure  is  now  necessary  to  get 
rid  of  the  water,  and  when  thoroughly  drained,  they  can 
be  sent  up. 

Cabbages  however  are  better  done  in  the  steamer,  by 
which  process  they  do  not  absorb  so  much  water,  so  do 
not  require  such  careful  draining.  The  flavour  of  all 
green  vegetables,  indeed,  is  more  successfully  developed 
by  this  system  of  cookery  than  by  boiling.  The  only 
objection  that  may  be  urged  is  that  their  colour  is 
rarely  so  bright.  This  may  be  overcome  by  placing  a 
bag  with  wood  ashes  enclosed  in  it  in  the  water.  Vege- 
tables should  be  carefully  prepared  as  if  for  boiling,  some 
salt  should  be  sprinkled  over  their  leaves,  and  they  should 
be  placed,  dry,  in  the  perforated  receptacle  that  fits  into 
the  top  of  the  steamer.  Water  should  then  be  poured 
into  the  lower  vessel,  filling  it  not  more  than  half  full. 
The  steamer    should  then  be  placed    over  a  brisk  fire. 


VEGETA  BL  ES-  CONCL  UDED.  141 

After  steaming  has  set  in,  the  contents  of  the  receptacle 
should  be  examined  now  and  then,  and  tested  exactly 
as  boiled  vegetables  are.  I  can  strongly  recommend 
Warren's  vegetable  steamer  made  of  block- tin  for  this 
process. 

There  are  numerous  methods  of  dressing  gTcens, — ajter 
boiling  or  steaming  them, — which  ought  to  attract  favoura- 
ble attention,  and  I  can  assure  you  that  with  a  very  little 
trouble  you  can  turn  out  a  most  excellent  series  of  dishes, 
which  will  well  repay  you,  and  raise  the  lowly  cabbage  to 
a  much  higher  position  in  your  estimation  than  it  at 
present  may  occupy. 

Before  I  pass  to  the  fanciful  styles  in  which  cabbages 
can  be  dressed,  I  ought  however  to  call  attention  to  a  bad 
habit  that  the  native  cook  often  indulges  in.  I  mean  that 
of  chopping  up  a  plain  boiled  cabbage  before  serving  it. 
Setting  aside  the  ugly  appearance  that  the  dish  presents 
when  thus  maltreated,  the  chopping  is  a  wasteful  j)ractice. 
The  cut-up  "cabbage  dries  quickly,  and  will  hardly  be 
found  worth  dressing  up  a  second  time  ;  whereas,  if  served 
Avhole,  the  portion  that  may  be  left  after  dinner,  will 
remain  nice  and  juicy,  and  will  make  a  recliauffe  in  the 
form  of  a  "puree  with  potatoes  and  butter  for  breakfast ; 
or,  tossed  in  butter  in  the  frying-pan  with  finely-minced 
herbs,  it  will  be  acceptable  with  the  chop  or  kidney.  Let 
a  plainly  cooked  head  of  cabbage,  therefore,  be  sent  up 
simply  divided  into  quarters,  with  a  pat  of  fresh  butter 
on  the  top  of  each,  melting  from  the  heat  of  the  greens. 

1.  Here  is  a  form  of  stewed  cabbag'e  {clioii  aii  jus)  that 
— if  the  head  be  nice  and  young — is  worthy  of  being  eaten 
alone  : — Take  a  savoy  or  any  good  sort  of  cabbage,  pick  it 
carefully,  and  let  it  soak  in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour ; 
if  a  large  head,  you  must  divide  it  into  quarters,  and 
even  a  small  head  had  better  be  similarly  treated.     When 


142  CULINARY  JOTJIXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

satisfied  that  the  cabbage  is  thoroughly  clean,  either  steam 
the  quarters,  or  plunge  them  into  boiling  hot-water,  and 
after  boiling  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  take  them  out  and 
drain  them.  Xow,  mince  a  thick  slice  of  bacon,  and  a  little 
shallot,  parsley,  marjoram,  and  thyme,  with  a  pinch  of 
sugar,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  put  all  in  a  stew-pan, 
and  set  it  on  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  bacon  melts,  lay 
your  cabbage  quarters  in  it,  and  pour  round  them  suffi- 
cient gravy  to  half  cover  them.  Let  this  simmer  gently 
till  the  cabbage  is  done.  Then  lift  out  the  quarters,  place 
them  in  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  them  up.  Strain  the  gravy, 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  and  pour  it  over  the  cab- 
bage. The  better  your  gravy  in  this  case,  the  better  the 
result.  If,  therefore,  you  can  spare  some  turkey  bones,  or 
scraps  of  game,  ham,  or  tongue  to  assist  youi-  ordinary 
stock,  youi-  entremets  will  be  all  the  nicer. 

2.  Another  good  way,  clion  an  sauce  blanche,  may  be 
described  as  follows  : — Half -boil  your  cabbage,  take  it  out, 
and  drain  it.  Divide  it  into  quarters.  Make  a  nicely 
flavoured  sauce  blanche  (adding  a  little  cream  if  you  can 
spare  it)  place  the  quarters  in  this,  complete  their  cooking 
therein,  and  serve,  jDouring  the  sauce  over  them. 

3.  Cabbages  may  be  cooked  with  rice,  and  gi'avy  (chou 
an  riz)  : — Par-boil  the  cabbage,  cut  it  up  into  pieces  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  put  them  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
half -boiled  rice,  into  as  much  gravy  as  will  cover  them, 
simmer  till  done,  then  serve.  Do  not  put  in  more  gravy 
than  is  absolutely  necessary,  or  the  dish  will  turn  out 
more  like  a  pot  age  than  an  entremets.  Grated  cheese 
should  be  handed  round  with  this. 

4.  A  novel  dish,  Feuilles  cle  chou  farcies,  is  recom- 
mended by  a  good  authority  which  may  be  described  in 
this  way  : — Boil  the  head  of  cabbage  till  the  leaves  become 
pliant  :  take  it  from  the  water,  gently  detach  a  number  of 


VEGETABLES— CONCLUDED.  143 

leaves  whole,  and  dry  them  on  a  clean  cloth.  Have  ready 
some  pounded  quenelle  meat  of  chicken  and  ham,  or  tongue 
with  an  anchovy,  or  any  artistic  mixture  of  savoury  meats 
bound  with  an  egg.  Arrange  a  dessert-spoonful  of  this  on 
a  cabbage  leaf,  which  roll  carefully  up  in  the  form  of  a 
sausage  :  wrap  two  or  three  more  leaves  round  this,  and 
tie  them  up  with  white  tape.  Make  six,  or  eight  of  these, 
and  simmer  them  gently  in  some  good  brown  gravy  till 
the  leaves  are  done.  Now,  pick  out  your  rolls,  untie  the 
tapes,  dispose  them  tastefully  in  the  hot  dish  ready  for 
them,  thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  them  :  sippets  of 
crisply  fried  bacon  will  form  an  appropriate  garnish  :  serve. 

A  little  cooked  cabbage  cut  small,  forms  an  agreeable 
addition  to  a  ijot-au-feu,  and    should  always  accompany 

potage  croute  au  pot. 

A  recipe  for  perdrix  an  clioic  will  be  found  in  the  menus. 


Brussels  sprouts  (Choux  de  JBruxelles)  are  susceptible 
of  delicate  treatment  :  they  can  be  cooked  according  to 
recipe  number  two  just  given  for  cabbage,  aii,  sauce  blanche, 
and  also  (after  having  been  boiled)  in  the  following 
methods  : — • 

1. — "J.  la  maitre  dlioteV  : — tossed  in  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, with  some  minced  parsley  and  the  juice  of  a  lime 
sprinkled  over  them,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

2. — "J.  la  Lyonnaise'"  : — fry  a  Bombay  onion  cut  into 
thin  rings  in  some  butter ;  when  a  golden  colour,  add  the 
sprouts,  toss  them  together  in  the  pan  for  a  minute,  and 
serve  hot. 

3. — "  ^1  w /«.•,"  ; — gently  simmered  in  rich  brown  gravy, 
not  thickened,  but  slightly  flavoured  w4th  spice. 

4. — "  A2i  heurre  : — simply  tossed  in  a  good  allowance  of 
melted  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt. 


144  CULINARY  yOTTJXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

5. — '•  A  la  crhne"  : — served  with  a  coffee-cupful  of  boil- 
ing cream  poured  over  them. 

6. — "  .4.  la  pouJette"  : — sent  to  table  with  a  libation  of 
good  ijoulette  sauce. 

Cold  greens  of  all  kinds,  especially  sprouts,  are  exceed- 
ingly nice  eaten  plain  with  a  tar  tare  sauce  accompanying 
them.  A  dressing  of  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
shallot  is  also  a  happy  way  of  improving  them  ;  and  I  can 
recommend  you  to  try  this  : — cut  some  slices  of  bread  into 
fancy  shapes,  or  simple  oblongs  ;  fry  them  in  butter  a 
golden  brown,  spread  over  them  some  hot  minced  gi*eens, 
or  pieces  of  sprouts,  and  serve  them  with  a  nice  brown 
sauce,  or  witli  a  layer  of  ''  buttered-cggs"  on  the  top  of 
the  greens. 

Cabbages  of  all  kinds  can  be  served  d  la  puree,  vi\i(}i  \n 
that  way  make  a  capital  liomcly  soup,  or  a  pleasant  accom- 
paniment to  an  entree. 


The  CAULIFLOWKR  (Chou-fleur)  is,  of  course,  the  queen 
of  the  cabbage  kind,  and  well  deserves  our  most  careful 
consideration.  In  plain  treatment,  what  I  have  said  for 
cabbages  generally,  holds  good  for  this  vegetable  also, 
viz.  : — draining  in  salt  and  water,  careful  picking,  and,  if 
to  be  boiled,  plunging  into  boiling  water,  with  a  tiny  bit 
of  soda  to  preserve  the  green  tint  of  the  leaves.  When, 
boiled,  or  steamed,  which  is  the  better  way,  you  must 
watch  them  carefully  lest  they  be  overdone. 

You  can  serve  cauliflowers  with  a  variety  of  sauces. 
Cut  the  stalk  flat  so  that  the  cauliflower  can  sit  up,  as  it] 
were,  the  flower  in  the  centre,  and  the  leaves  round  it, 
pour  about  it  a  good  tomato  sauce,  or  a  plain  sauce  hiajiche, 
bechamel,  or  sauce  piquante,  and  dust  some  finely  rasped] 
crumbs  over  the  whole. 


VEGETABLES— CONCLUDED.  1 45 

After  having  been  half -boiled,  very  small  heads  may  be 
gently  cooked  in  sauce  blanche ;  or  the  flower  may  be 
divided  into  sprigs,  which  can  be  cooked  in  clear  gravy, 
or  in  sauce  blanche,  and  served  with  an  entree.  But  the 
great  dish  to  be  studied  thoroughly  is  cauliflower  "  aiv 
gratin.'"  This  is  as  practicable  with  the  remains  of  a  cold 
boiled  cauliflower,  as  with  a  fresh  one.  Dispose  the  pieces 
of  cauliflower  in  a  well-buttered  dish  that  will  stand  the 
oven,  pour  over  them  some  melted  butter :  dust  some 
grated  cheese  over  them,  pepper  and  salt,  bake  for  ten 
minutes,  and  serve. 

With  a  fresh  cauliflower  you  must  boil  or  steam  the  head 
first  till  all  but  done,  which  you  must  test  with  a  skewer, 
drain  it  thoroughly ;  then  dissolve  two  ounces  of  Par- 
mesan, or  any  mild  grated  cheese,  in  a  sauce  composed  as 
follows  : — one  ounce  of  butter,  one  and  a  quarter  ounce  of 
flour,  one  and  a  half  pint  of  water,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Next  arrange  the  flower  to  the  best  of  your  power  in  a 
neat  pie-dish ;  either  whole  if  large  enough,  or  in  pieces 
with  the  green  leaves  introduced  between  each  piece ;  pour 
the  sauce  well  round  this,  dust  a  layer  of  cheese  over  the 
surface,  bake,  and  serve  as  soon  as  the  top  takes  colour. 
A  red-hot  iron  passed  closely  over  the  surface  of  the  dish 
will  brown  it  nicely. 

For  those  who  do  not  like  cheese,  the  following  "  au 
gratin'  is  to  be  recommended : — arrange  your  pieces  of 
cauliflower  as  before  explained,  strew  over  them  some  fine 
stale  bread-crumbs,  with  some  olives,  a  few  capers,  and  an 
anchovy  chopped  up  small ;  pour  over  this  a  cupful  of  hot 
melted  butter,  bake  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve.  Salad  oil 
is  better  than  melted  butter,  but  I  fear  that  my  country- 
men will  shrink  from  such  a  '  foreign'  suggestion. 


Spinach   (epinards)  is  a  thing  that  we  can  get  in  the 

13 


146  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

most  trying  weather,  and  Tvitli  common  care  no  entremets 
de  legumes  are  more  delicate  than  those  which  we  can 
achieve  with  this  vegetable.  Having  selected  two  pounds 
of  leaves  carefully,  wash  them  well,  blanch  them  by  plung- 
ing them  for  a  couple  of  minutes  in  scalding  water,  drain, 
and  chop  them  up.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  one  ounce  of 
butter,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  floui%  and  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  one  of  sugar ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  for  three 
minutes,  then  add  the  spinach  leaves  ;  stir  round  for  five 
minutes,  and  moisten  with  a  coffee-cupful  of  milk,  gravy, 
or  stock  ;  stir  for  two  minutes  more,  and  then  a  breakfast- 
cupful  of  the  milk  or  stock,  stir  for  five  minutes  and  take 
the  pan  from  the  fire.  Now,  mingle  a  little  butter,  with 
the  sjjinach,  or  give  it  a  spoonful  of  cream,  or  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  then  turn  it  out  upon  a 
good  hot  dish,  garnish  it  with  sippets  of  fried  bread, 
fieurons  of  puff  pastry,  or  short-bread  biscuits  specially 
baked  for  the  dish,  and  serve.  I  mix  a  little  grated  cheese 
with  the  short-bread  paste  which  I  think  goes  well  with 
the  spinach,  and  some  give  the  least  suspicion  of  sugar  ;  I 
think  that  the  savoury  method  is  the  better  of  the  two. 

Short-bread  biscuits  for  spinach  may  be  made  as  fol- 
lows : — Put  three  ounces  of  flour  into  a  bowl  and  mix  into 
it  two  ounces  of  butter  liquefied,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
a  salt-spoonful  of  sugar  and  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese, 
roll  out  the  paste,  cut  it  into  heart-shapes  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  bake. 

Fieurons  of  nice  puff-pastry  are  often  given,  and  nothing 
can  be  nicer — as  an  entremets — than  little  patties  made  of 
puff-pastry,  or  short-bread  crust,  filled  with  carefully-made 
spinach  'puree,  and  capped  with  buttered-egg. 

It  is  not  at  all  necessary  to  pass  spinach  through  a  sieve. 
If  they  are  young,  and  tender,  you  should,  after  draining 
and  blanching  the  leaves  thoroughly,  chop  them  ujd,  and 


VEGETA  BLES—  CONCL  UDED,  1 4  7 

cook  them  as  I  have  described.  You  can  serve  them  with 
a  poached  egg  or  two  on  the  top  of  them  ;  or  you  can  fry 
some  slices  of  bread,  batter  them,  and  dress  your  minced 
spinach  over  them,  with  a  cap,  for  each  piece,  of  "  butter ed- 
Qgg,''^  or  a  tiny  pat  of  mattre  d'hotel  butter, 

A  nice  mild  anchovy  toast,  kept  hot  in  the  oven,  and 
served  with  a  layer  of  spinach  over  its  surface  is  very 
nice  :  whilst  a  little  mound  of  chopped  spinach,  garnished 
with  hard  boiled  eggs,  forms  an  attractive  centre  for  an 
entree  of  cutlets.  A  pleasing  looking  entremets  of  spinach 
is  made  by  shaping  the  greens  in  a  circle,  and  leaving  a 
hollow  centre  to  be  filled  with  "  buttered-egg"  coloured 
red  with  tomato-pulp. 


Endive  (cMcoree)  may  be  treated  exactly  as  I  have  de- 
scribed for  spinach,  but  being  a  tougher  leaf,  it  will  require 
a  little  more  time  in  the  stew-pan.  The  young  leaves  of 
beetroot,  "  turnip  tops"  (leaves),  and  water-cress,  are 
capable  of  similar  dressing. 


Sorrel  (oseille)  which  should  be  dressed  in  the  manner 
described  for  spinach  is  not  half  enough  used.  Your  cook 
will  know  it  if  you  order  "  sorley," — (Ramasamy's  pro- 
nunciation of  the  double  '  r'  being  peculiar) — and  nothing 
is  nicer  than  a  mutton  (neck)  cutlet  or  fillet  of  beef 
with  a  sorrel  puree,  for  the  pungent  taste  of  the  vegetable 
suggests  a  novelty  to  your  palate. 

My  readers  who  are  in  the  habit  of  enjoying  themselves 
on  the  Neilgherries  ought  to  try  a  dish  of  pork  cutlets 
with  a  puree  of  sorrel  (menu  N'o.  12),  for  with  a  rich  white 
meat,  sorrel  is  especially  agreeable.  I  mentioned  this 
vegetable  in  connection  with  poiage  d,  la  honne  femme  when 
talking  about  soups,  and  I  may  add  now  that  a  plain  gravy 
soup  thickened,   and  flavoured  with  sorrel  puree  is  far 


148  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

from  bad.     In  cooking  sorrel,   onion  and  a  little  sugar  are 
essential,  and  lettuce  leaves  are  a  great  assistance. 

This  vegetable  is  largely  cultivated   by   the   Natives. 
Hind  : — chookeh-jmluk. 


The  Jerusalem  artichoke  (topinamhour)  is  a  vegeta- 
ble which,  as  a  rule,  people  either  dislike  exceedingly,  or 
are  very  fond  of.  I  place  it  amongst  the  best  we  have. 
Wash  the  artichokes,  peel  and  shape  them  nicely,  drop- 
ping each  one  into  salt  and  water  at  once  to  prevent  its 
turning  black  ;  when  all  are  ready,  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  gallon  of  cold-water,  and  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  salt ;  boil  till  tender  (which  will  take  about  twenty 
minutes  after  boiling-point  has  been  attained)  and  drain, 
serving  them  with  a  nice  sauce  blanche. 

Or,  when  tlirec  parts  done,  you  can  lift  them  up,  and 
simmer  them  till  quite  done,  in  rich  brown  gravy. 

Or,  you  can,  when  half-boiled,  drain  them  dry,  and  bake 
them  upon  a  well-buttered  tin,  serving  them  with  plain 
melted  butter,  a  dressing  of  oil,  vinegar,  minced  shallot 
and  salt,  or  any  sauce  piquante  you  fancy. 

But,  like  the  cauliflower,  the  Jerusalem  artichoke  is 
worthy  of  the  epicure's  attention  when  sent  up  "  au 
gratin."  The  combination  being  a  puree  of  plain  boiled 
artichoke,  slightly  diluted  with  cream,  and  seasoned  with 
pepper,  and  salt :  this,  turned  into  a  well-buttered  pie-dish, 
its  surface  dusted  over  with  finely  grated  mild  cheese,  and 
the  whole  baked  until  the  top  takes  colour.  Good  milk 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  may  take  the  place  of  cream, 
or  a  sauce  blanche,  but  if  perfection  be  desired,  pray  use 
cream. 

Instead  of  using  a  pie-dish  the  puree  may  be  baked  in 
some  well-buttered  coquille  shells,  and  served  upon  a 
napkin. 


VEGETABLES— CONCLUDED.  149 

Another  artistic  raethod  of  doinsr  tliis  vetretable  is  this  : — 
Cut  half  a  dozen  large  ones,  after  thej  have  been  three 
parts  boiled,  into  long  strips  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  dip  them,  in  the  batter  I  describe  elsewhere,  and  fry 
them  a  golden  tint :  these  fritters  are  excellent ;  you  can 
order  them  alone  as  an  entremets,  or  pile  them  in  a  pyramid 
as  the  central  garnish  of  an  entree. 

Jerusalem  artichokes  can  be  served  in  a  mould,  iced, 
with  a  mayonnaise  sauce,  or  hot  with  a  Parmesan,  or  rich 
white  sauce.  For  the  mould,  follow  this  recipe  : — Two 
pounds  of  the  artichokes  boiled  in  milk :  half  a  pint  of 
cream  :  four  eggs  :  pepper  and  salt.  Mash  the  artichokes, 
and  pass  them  through  the  hair  sieve,  add  the  cream,  the 
eggs  well  beaten  up  whites  and  all,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered 
mould,  and  steam  it  for  one  hour.  Turn  it  out,  and  garnish 
it  with  tomato  puree,  Parmesan  sauce,  or  a  rich  veloiite. 

Or : — ice  the  mould,  and  turn  it  out,  sending  it  up  with 
a  cold  mayonnaise  sauce  in  a  boat.  The  name  of  this 
excellent  entremets  here  is  "  Topinamhours  a  la  Chetput,^* 
but  it  is  commonly  called  creme  de  topinamiours. 


Undeniably  good  as  the  Jerusalem  artichoke  is,  it  is,  of 
course,  inferior  to  the  Globe  or  leafy  kind  (articliaut) . 
These  are  properly  considered  the  choicest  delicacies  of  the 
Neilgherry  market  by  many  people.  A  globe  artichoke, 
like  a  cabbage,  must  be  well  soaked  in  salt  and  water  to 
get  rid  of  the  insects  which  may  be  hidden  between  the 
leaves.  Then  it  must  be  set  head  downwards  in  boiling 
water,  with  soda  and  salt,  and  boiled  till  the  leaves  part 
easily  from  the  core.  When  done,  you  must  drain  it,  and 
dish  it  hot :  a  little  "  Dutch  sauce,"  in  which  a  few  drops 
of  anchovy  vinegar,  or  lime-juice  have  been  introduced, 
forms  an  agreeable  accompaniment. 


150  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

There  are  several  high  class  ways  of  ser\'ing  globe  arti- 
chokes which  I,  of  course,  dedicate  to  my  readers  who 
happen  to  be  staying  on  the  Hills. 

First  let  me  give  yon  dii'ections  for  the  trimming  of  an 
artichoke  secundum  artem.  Place  the  raw  vegetable  bottom 
downwards  on  a  board,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  at  once  cnt 
it  straight  down,  dividing  it  in  half  ;  then  divide  each  half 
so  obtained  so  that  you  have  four  quarters  :  next  pare  out 
the  '  choke'  which  adheres  to  each  quarter,  as  you  would 
core  an  apple,  and  trim  off  the  leaves  leaving  about  an 
eighth  of  an  inch  of  them  unsevered  and  adhering  to  the 
trimmed  quarters.  Drop  each  piece  as  you  trim  it  into 
cold  water  in  which  a  lime  has  been  squeezed,  or  a 
table-spoonful  of  vinegar  poured,  to  prevent  its  turning 
black,  and  when  you  have  prepared  enough  for  the  dish 
you  require,  throw  the  quarters  into  boiling  water  witli  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  ;  and  in 
about  fifteen  minutes,  when  nearly  done,  lift  them  out  and 
drain  them.  They  may  be  now  finished  off  in  these  several 
ways  :— 

1. — As  "  beigiiets"  : — by  being  cut  into  slices  dipped  in 
batter,  and  fried  in  boiling  fat  till  of  a  bright  golden  tint. 

2. — Or, — "  an  sauce  blanche'^  or  "  bechamel,^'  in  which 
they  should  be  gently  simmered. 

3. — Or, — "(i  la  maitre  dlioteV: — tossed  in  butter,  and 
served  on  a  hot  silver  dish,  with  the  melted  butter,  a 
squeeze  of  lime  juice  and  a  sprinkling  of  very  finely 
chopped  cui'led  parsley. 

4. — Or, — "  au  gratin'^ : — the  pieces  neatly  disposed  upon 
a  silver  dish,  with  a  little  gravy  round  them  to  keep  them 
from  burning,  dusted  over  with  very  finely  sifted  bread- 
crumbs, chopped  mushroom,  parsley,  and  a  little  shallot, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each  piece, 
then  baked  for  ten  minutes  and  served  hot. 


VEGETABLES— CONCLUDED.  151 

5. — Or,  "  a  V  Italienne^^  : — as  in  the  foregoing,  substitut- 
ing a  dusting  of  mild  grated  cheese  for  bread-crumbs, 
omitting  the  mushroom  and  chopped  herbs,  and  merely 
adding  the  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 

6. — Or,  "  a  V  Es^pagnole^  : — gently  simmered  in  rich 
brown  sauce. 

7. — Or,  "  a  la  Lyonnaise'^  : — the  pieces  heated  in  the 
oven  very  carefully,  piled  upon  a  hot  silver  dish,  and  a 
rich  brown  sauce  (with  finely  minced  onion  fried,  and  a 
table-spoonful  of  minced  parsley  incorporated  therewith) 
poured  over  them. 

8. — Or,  a  la  poivrade'  : — trimmed  as  aforesaid,  sim- 
mered in  hlanc,  and  served  with  sauce  poivrade. 

Artichoke  bottoms  (fonds  d' artichauts  entiers)  are  trim- 
med in  this  way  : — Cut  the  tops  of  the  leaves  horizontally? 
parallel  with,  and  close  down  to  the  top  of  the  "/oncZ." 
Trim  all  leaves  that  may  adhere  to  the  fond  quite  closely 
all  round,  and  pare  off  the  stalk  smoothly.  Now,  plunge 
the  artichoke  bottoms  into  boiling  salt  and  water,  and 
blanch  them  to  facilitate  the  scooping  out  of  the  "  choke," 
which  should  be  done  with  a  silver  spoon.  With  arti- 
chokes thus  prepared  you  can  turn  out : — 

Fonds  d'articTiauts  a  la  harlgoule  : — Having  scooped  out 
the  chokes,  and  drained  six  artichoke  bottoms  of  a  fair 
size,  give  them  a  dust  of  salt  and  pepper,  put  them  on  a 
clean  dish,  and  prepare  this  '  farce' : — four  ounces  of  finely 
minced  bacon,  a  quarter  ounce  of  butter  and  the  same 
weight  of  flour,  a  coffee-cupful  of  broth,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  very  finely  minced  parsley,  one  table- spoonful 
of  finely  minced  mushrooms,  and  one  dessert-spoonful  of 
finely  chopped  white  onion.  Stir  the  mixture  over  the 
fire  for  five  minutes,  and  then  fill  the  hollows  of  the  arti- 
choke bottoms  with  it.  Tie  a  very  thin  slice  of  bacon  over 
each  fond,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  breakfast- 


152  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

cupful  of  good  gravy.  Put  the  stew-pan  into  the  oven, 
and  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  ascertain  if  tender,  then 
dish  up  and  serve,     [Gouffe.] 

Audot  recommends  that  the  fonds  be  placed  upon  lean 
slices  of  veal  or  pork,  which  should  be  laid  at  the  bottom 
of  a  braising-pan  ;  that  the  gravy  should  be  poured  in, 
and  that  the  process  should  be  that  of  braising. 

For  fonds  d'artichaitts  a  la  Proveno/rle,  prepare  the  arti- 
chokes as  above  without  the  '  farce,'  place  them  in  a  pie- 
dish  with  enough  salad  oil  to  keep  them  moist  and  safe 
from  burning,  and  with  six  cloves  of  gai-lic,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Put  the  dish  into  the  oven,  and  bake  :  when  the 
fonds  are  tender,  remove  the  garlic,  give  them  a  dust  of 
pepper  and  the  squeeze  of  a  lime,  dish  up,  and  serve. 
People  who  dislike  oil,  and  a  '  far-off'  suspicion  of  garlic 
can,  of  course,  use  melted  butter,  and  slices  of  shallot. 

Fonds  d'artichauts  a  la  bechamel,  or  a  la  creme,  make  a 
very  excellent  entremets.  Trim  as  already  described,  sim- 
mer them  in  blanc,  and  serve  eitlier  with  bechamel  sauce, 
or  boiling  cream. 

I  have  been  successful  with/ond?  d'artichauts  a  la  mo'elle. 
Cook  the  fonds  till  tender  in  hlanc.  Prepare  some  beef 
marrow — i.e.,  cut  the  marrow  into  pieces,  and  blanch  them 
in  scalding  water.  Take  as  many  coqnIlJes  as  you  have 
fonds,  put  a  little  of  the  marrow  into  each  shell,  over  that 
place  Sifond,  fill  the  cavity  of  the  fo7id  with  marrow,  heat 
the  coqmlles  hot,  and  just  before  you  serve,  pour  over  each 
a  little  Espagnole  sauce.  If  you  have  no  coquilles,  pastry 
cases  answer  very  well  :  make  them  in  round  patty  pans. 

Cold  boiled  artichoke  bottoms  can  be  mashed  up  with 
cream,  and  a  little  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt, 
top-dressed  with  crumbs,  and  baked  in  a  little  pie-dish, 
or  in  silver  coqiUlle  shells. 


VEGETA  BLES—CONCL  UDED.  153 

Or,  the  mixture  can  be  placed  inside  little  pastiy  patties 
like  oyster  patties  and  served  on  a  napkin  (Bouchees  d'arti- 
chauts).  This  latter  method  is  equally  practicable  with 
Jerusalem  artichoke  puree,  and  if  youi'  cook  can  make 
light  pastry,  these  little  patties,  will  be  found  very  nice 
indeed. 

Remember  when  writing  your  menu,  with  regard  to 
these  two  vegetables,  that  the  *"  artichauf  is  the  globe  or 
leafy  kind.  The  Jerusalem  artichoke  should  be  called 
'  topinambour.' 


Turnips,  (navets,)  do  not  require  much  discussion ;  it 
should  be  remarked,  however,  that  when  nice  and  young, 
they  are  well  worthy  of  attention,  especially  as  garnishes 
for  entrees^  stews,  &c.  Think  of  appearance  when  serving 
them,  and  shape  the  roots  into  little  cones  or  ovals,  of  an 
equal  size.  I  once  saw  a  dish  of  tui'nips  served  a  la 
creme  which  was  quite  worthy  of  separate  service  as  an 
entremets :  the  roots  had  been  cut  into  pieces  and  shaped 
about  the  size  of  a  bantam's  Qgg,  boiled  to  a  turn,  and 
served  with  a  coffee-cupful  of  boiling  cream  poured  over 
them  to  finish  with. 

Trimmed  in  the  same  way,  young  turnips  can  be  sent 
up  a  la  youlette,  or  a  la  bechamel. 

The  French  dish  of  young  turnips  called  navets  glaces 
ought  to  be  very  popular.  Trim  the  turnips  into  shapes 
like  small  pears,  or  cones,  and  boil  them  till  nearly  done 
in  salt  and  water  ;  drain  them,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  plenty  of  melted  butter,  and  sprinkle  them 
bountifully  with  powdered  sugar,  stir  gently  over  the  fire 
mitil  they  begin  to  brown,  and  then  add  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  clear  stock  :  pepper  and  salt  should  now  be  given,  let 
them  simmer  till  quite  tender  and  serve  them  in  their  own 
sauce. 


154  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


It  is  recommended  by  some  to  let  tlie  sugar  form  a  sort 
of  caramel  round  the  turnips  before  adding  the  stock  :  in 
that  case  you  must  put  the  turnip  pieces  (when  the 
caramel  stage  has  been  reached)  into  a  separate  sauce-pan, 
wash  out  the  first  one  with  a  little  stock,  pour  that  ovei- 
them,  and  stew  gently  as  in  the  other  recipe.  Caramel 
is,  of  coui'se,  sugar  slowly  melted  over  the  fire,  till  it  has 
attained  a  rich  brown  tint. 

Parsnips,  knolkhol,  and  small  round  onions,  (of  the  size 
usually  pickled)  are  susceptible  of  similar  treatment,  and 
any  brown  entree  may  be  garnished  with  vegetables  glaces 
in  this  form. 

The  puree  of  turnips  with  cream  is,  of  course,  well 
known,  and  all  root  vegetables  make  toothsome  additions 
to  your  ordinary  dish  of  meat,  or  cutlets,  us  purees,  or 
mixed  cunningly  as  a  macedoine  de  legumes. 


Small  '  early'  carrots  (carottes)  and  PARSXirs  (panais) 
may  be  trimmed  a  uniform  size,  boiled  gently,  and  finally 
tossed  in  butter,  in  a  frying-pan,  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
some  finely-powdered  sugar. 

Or,  they  may  be  similarly  treated,  and  sent  up  a  la 
mattre  d'hutel,  aux  fines  herhes,  ^r. 

Carrots  cut  into  round  balls,  gently  simmered  till  ten- 
der in  blanc,  and  then  dressed  with  sauce  blonde,  or  a  la 
poulette,  make  a  charming  central  garnish  for  a  dish  of 
cutlets,  which,  when  thus  presented,  should  be  called  "  a 
la  Nivernaise.'' 

Garottes  a  la  Flamande  are   worthy  of  close   considera- 
tion : — Choose  a  pound  and  a  half  of  tender  carrots,  blanch 
them  in  scalding  water,  scrape  ofE  their  tough  skin,   and  j 
trim  them  in  slices  the  eighth  of   an  inch  thick.     Put  the 
pieces  into  a  stew-pan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  pinch] 


VEGETABLES-  CONCLUDED.  1  55 

of  salt  and  one  of  sugar,  and  a  coffee-cupful  of  water. 
Cover  the  pan,  and  simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  shaking 
the  pan  occasionally  to  ensure  even  cooking.  When  done, 
remove  the  pan,  let  its  contents  cool  a  little,  and  then  stir 
in  two  yolks  of  eggs,  a  coffee-cupful  of  cream,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  butter ;  add  a  table- spoonful  of  chopped  parsley 
and  serve. 


The  ONION,  (oignon,)  can  be  made  a  good  deal  of  either 
stuffed  plainly,  or  with  sheeps'  kidneij,  as  I  have  described 
in  my  menus  :  indeed  whether  plainly  boiled,  or  stewed, 
onions  rarely  fail  to  please  those  who  are  fond  of  them. 

A  very  presentable  dish  is  "  oignons  au  gratin^  made  in 
this  way  : — boil  them  in  milk  till  tender  ;  cut  them  up  as 
finely  as  possible  and  mash  them,  pass  through  a  w4re 
sieve,  mix  the  pulp  well,  adding  a  coffee-cupful  of  cream, 
or  milk  enriched  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Put  the  puiSe  into  a  shallow  pie-dish,  strew  a  layer 
of  grated  cheese  over  the  surface,  and  bake  for  a  few 
minutes  till  the  top  takes  colour.  You  must,  of  course, 
butter  the  pie-dish,  and  also  sprinkle  a  little  melted  butter 
over  the  cheese. 

Onions,  if  of  a  moderate  size,  can  be  served  a  la  creme, 
a  la  hechamel,  a  VEspagnole,  8fc.,  and  are  invariably  accept- 
able with  the  releve  when  so  treated. 


Vegetable  marrows,  (courges  a  la  moelle,)  are  very 
nice,  and  in  their  turn  not  to  be  passed  over.  I  think  the 
best  way  of  cooking  them  is  to  steam,  or  bake  them  till  all 
but  done,  then  to  lift,  and  drain  them,  removing  the 
seeds,  and  shaping  them  into  fillets,  &c.,  as  desired.  You 
can  then  heat  the  fillets  up  in  a  previously  made  white, 
or  brown  sauce  flavoured  to  taste,  and   serve  them  as  soon 


156  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

as  tender.     Marrows   should,  of    course,  be  peeled  before 
steaming. 

The  vegetables  marro^v  is  also  worthy  of  a  place  amongst 
entremets  de  legumes,  when  served  "  an  gratin,^^  baked  in 
layers,  or  fillets,  in  a  little  stock,  and  dusted  over  with 
grated  cheese  ;  or  as  "  heignets"  : — partly  cooked,  and  cut 
into  convenient  pieces,  which  should  be  dipped  in  batter, 
and  fried  a  golden  brown  in  boiling  fat. 

An  uncommon  dish  with  a  marrow  is  that  called  "  mock 
whitebait"  : — You  parboil  the  marrow,  and  then  cut  it  up 
into  a  number  of  pieces  about  the  size  of  the  whitebait, 
then  roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  them,  at  a  gallop  in  seeth- 
ing fat ;  lift  them  out  and  drain  them  when  they  turn  a 
golden  yellow,  and  serve  witli  a  dust  of  cayenne,  and 
limes,  cut  in  quarters,  handed  round  with  brown-bread 
and  butter. 

Carefully  avoid  the  awful  English  custom  of  serving 
marrows  on  sodden  toast. 


Cucumbers,  (concomhre.?)  may  be  cooked  exactly  as  laid 
down  for  vegetable-marrows.  They  form  a  most  pleasing 
and  delicate  garnish  for  boiled  fish,  or  cutlets,  when 
dressed  a  la  poulette  as  follows  : — 

Take  a  good  sized  cucumber,  or  two  small  ones ;  cut 
them  lengthwise  into  quarters,  remove  the  seeds,  and  peel 
off  the  green  skin.  Cut  them  into  pieces  two  inches  long 
and  one  inch  thick,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
plenty  of  boiling  water,  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a 
tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Simmer  them  until  three  parts  done  ; 
then  drain  the  liquor  off,  and  turn  the  pieces  of  cucum- 
ber out  upon  a  clean  dish,  cut  each  piece  in  half  and  cover 
them  up.  Make  half  a  pint  of  poulette  sauce,  put  the 
pieces  of  cucumber  into  it,  warm  gently  in  the  hain-marie, 
and  serve — 


VEGETABLES— CONCLUDED.  1 57 

Or,  the  pieces  may  be  simmered  until  cooked,  then 
drained,  piled  up  on  a  hot  silver  dish,  and  served  with  a 
pat  of  maitre  d' hotel  butter  melting  over  them.  In  this 
manner  they  are  very  nice  with  a  dish  of  lamb  cutlets. 

Small  cucumbers  and  marrows  may  be  stuffed,  and 
cooked  as  follows  : — (concomhres  farcis)  Peel  the  cucumber, 
slice  off  a  piece  at  one  end,  and  pick  out  the  seeds  with  a 
marrow-spoon  ;  stuff  the  hollow  thus  formed  with  a  farce 
made  of  pounded  meat,  and  bread-crumb,  two-thirds  of  the 
former  to  one  of  the  latter.  Season  the  farce  with  pepper 
and  salt,  a  little  minced  shallot  and  parsley,  and  bind  it 
with  a  well  whipped  egg  ;  fix  on  the  end  you  removed  with 
white  of  egg',  and  secure  it  with  tape.  The  cucumber  can 
now  be  baked,  or  gently  simmered  in  some  gTavy  which 
should  be  thickened  and  poui^ed  over  it  when  done. 

Pumpkins,  (potirons),  may  be  treated  much  in  the  same 
manner  as  marrows  and  cucumbers. 


Beetroot,  (Betterave) . — This  root,  chiefly  used  cold  as  a 
salad  by  itself,  or  mixed  with  other  vegetables  in  salad,  is 
by  no  means  to  be  despised  when  served  hot  with  a  nice 
poulette  sauce.  Beetroot  is  far  better  baked  than  boiled. 
After  having  thus  cooked  it,  cut  it  into  slices,  season  them 
with  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley,  and  cress,  and  give 
them  a  turn  or  two  in  a  pan  with  a  pat  of  butter  and  a 
few  drops  of  vinegar.  Dish  up,  and  pour  a  poulette 
sauce  over  them. 

Beetroot  leaves  can  be  turned  to  excellent  account  either 
dressed  as  spinach,  for  which  the  tender  ones  sliould  be 
chosen,  or  as  cardoons  in  which  case  the  mid-rib  of  the 
tougher  leaves  should  be  cut  out,  and  gently  stewed  in  hlanc. 


Tomatoes,  (tomatesj  form  a  most  valuable  portion  of  our 

U 


158  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

vegetable  produce.  They  are  easily  grown  in  this  Presi- 
dency, and  are  often  procui'able  when  the  stock  of  garden 
stuff  has  sunk  to  its  lowest  stage  during  the  hot  weather. 
Whether  cut  up  cold  in  its  raw  state,  and  eaten  as  a  salad, 
— or,  in  the  form  of  puree  as  a  soup,  or  sauce, — "  au 
gratin"  as  an  entremets, — with  maccaroni, — with  fish,  or 
with  other  vegetables,  as  a  garnish, — the  tomato  never 
fails  to  be  a  welcome  friend.  In  Italy,  Spain,  and 
Southern  Fi*ance,  it  forms  a  staple  part  of  the  daily  food 
of  all  classes,  and  I  believe  that  I  am  right  in  saying  that 
it  is  a  very  wholesome  vegetable  in  a  hot  climate.  I  give 
you  elsewhere  several  dishes  in  which  tomatoes  play  an 
important  part,  I  will,  therefore,  confine  myself  now  to 
two  excellent  recipes  for  serving  them  as  an  entremets. 

"  Au  gratin' : — Cut  a  slice  off  the  top  of  each  tomato  as 
you  would  decapitate  a  boiled  eg^.  With  a  dessert-knife 
scoop  out  the  pulp  and  seeds  from  the  shell  as  well  as  you 
can,  put  the  cases  so  obtained  on  one  side  :  make  a  puree 
with  the  scooped  out  pulp,  flavour  it  nicely  like  tomato 
sauce,  strain  off  the  seeds,  and  thicken  it  with  fine  bread- 
crumbs :  beat  up  some  eggs  (one  for  every  two  cases)  and 
mix  the  whole  well ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  stuff  the  cases 
therewith,  give  the  surface  of  each  a  light  dusting  of 
grated  cheese,  bake  on  a  buttered  dish  for  ten  minute.«5. 
and  serve. 

Another  method,  which  has  the  advantage  of  simplicity, 
may  be  followed  in  this  way.  Put  an  ounce  of  butter  into 
a  small  stew-pan,  throw  into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  finely 
minced  sweet  onion,  put  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  lightly 
fry  the  onion  ;  before  the  pieces  take  color,  put  into  the 
vessel  four  or  five  large,  or  a  dozen  small  tomatoes,  cut  up 
into  small  pieces.  Stir  well  over  the  fire  until  the  tomatoes 
are  thoroughly  cooked.  Now,  rub  an  au  gratin  dish  with 
a  piece  of  garlic,  butter  it,  and  pour  into  it  the  contents  of 


I 


VEGETABLES-CONCLUDED.  169 

the  stew-pan,  dust  over  the  surface  a  lajer  of  Parmesan, 
Grujere,  or  other  mild  cheese,  and  bake  for  eight  or  ten 
minutes  :  serve  hot, 

'^  A  Vltalienne'^ : — Cut  the  tomatoes  in  halves,  scoop  out 
the  pulp  and  seeds  with  a  silver  spoon,  and  place  them  on 
a  baking  dish  upon  which  you  have  poured  a  little  of  the 
best  salad  oil.  Make  a  mixture  of  grated  ham,  bread- 
crumbs, some  finely  minced  shallot,  parsley,  marjoram, 
and  thyme,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt ;  mix  this  with 
the  tomato  pulp,  and  fill  the  cases,  covering  them  com- 
pletely, shake  an  allowance  of  salad  oil  in  drops  over  all,  and 
bake  for  a  few  minutes,  serving  the  dish  intact  as  it  comes 
from  the  oven.  The  proportion  of  crumbs  to  the  ham 
should  be  two  spoonfuls  of  the  former,  to  one  of  the  latter, 
the  flavouring  herbs,  &c.,  to  taste  at  discretion.  Chopped 
anchovies,  olives,  capers,  mushrooms  and  truffles,  can  be 
introduced  if  at  hand,  and  butter  (melted)  may  be  used  by 
those  who  do  not  like  oil. 


Celery  (celeri),  is  an  exceedingly  nice  vegetable  not 
only  when  sent  round,  raw,  with  cheese,  but  also  when 
cooked  in  various  ways  as  an  entremets.  In  the  latter 
case  the  heads  should  be  very  neatly  trimmed  and  cut 
short,  say  five  or  six  inches  in  length.  They  can  then 
be  split  lengthwise  in  two  or  four  pieces  according  to  the 
thickness  of  the  head.  When  prepared  satisfactorily,  the 
pieces  should  be  plunged  into  fast  boiling  water,  and  as 
soon  as  tender,  drained,  turned  out  upon  a  hot  silver  dish, 
and  served  like  asparagus  with  a  pat  of  butter  melting 
over  them,  a  piping  hot  "  Dutch  sauce"  being  sent  round 
in  a  boat. 

.  Celery  may  be  also  stewed  gently  in  weak  stock,  or 
hlanc  and  then  be  presented  a  VEsjpagnoU  (covered  with  a 
thick  rich  brown  sauce),  or  au  jus  in  clear  gravy. 


160  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Blanc,  which  I  have  already  mentioned  with  reference  to 
vegetable  cookerv,  is  a  kind  of  stock  made  as  follows : — 
Cut  up  as  small  as  possible  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat 
bacon,  and  a  quarter  of  pound  of  beef  suet,  and  put  the 
pieces  with  a  bacon  bone,  or  some  broken-up  chicken  bones, 
into  a  stew-pan.  Add  a  couple  of  carrots,  and  two  large 
sweet  onions  cut  up  small,  a  bunch  of  curly  parsley,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  dried  thyme  or  marjoram,  a  dozen  pepper 
corns,  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  and  one  of  salt,  and  stir  well 
over  a  brisk  fire  till  the  fat  melts  well,  and  the  vegetables 
begin  to  fry  in  it.  Do  not  let  them  brown,  but  pour  in 
before  that  stage  arrives  enough  warm  water  to  cover  the 
contents  of  the  pan.  Draw  the  pan  to  the  edge  of  the  fire. 
Cook  the  contents  of  it  at  first  gently,  gradually  adding 
heat,  and  finally  encouraging  evaporation  by  actual  boil- 
ing, and  stirring  the  contents  of  your  pan  to  prevent  them 
catching.  When  the  liquor  has  diminished  to  about  a 
quarter  of  its  original  quantity,  strain  it  off  into  a  bowl. 
When  required,  tliis  vegetable  essence  should  be  carefully 
skimmed  poured  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  sufficient  water 
should  be  added  to  cook  the  celery  or  other  vegetable  that 
may  be  jnit  into  it. 

Celery  stewed  in  hlanc  can  be  served  advantageously 
a  la  ynoelle,  i.e.,  with  beef  marrow.  In  this  case  you  must 
pile  the  celery  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  thicken  the  hlayic 
in  which  it  was  cooked,  and  pour  it  over  the  pile. 

The  marrow  should  be  treated  in  this  way  : — Break  the 
bone,  take  out  the  raw  marrow,  cut  it  into  dice,  blanch 
them  for  five  minutes  in  scalding  water,  drain  them,  and 
heat  them  up  gently  In  a  little  of  the  sauce  en  haia-marie. 
A  dessert-spoonful  each  of  this  should  be  put  into  little 
croustades  of  fried  bread,  and  served  round  the  celery  as  a 
garnish.  Cut  your  croustades  square,  out  of  stale  bread, 
and  hollow  a  little  space  in  each  to  hold  the  marrow. 


VEGETABLES— CON  CL  UDED.  161 

Cardoons,  (cardons)  a  la  moelle  are  of  course  well  known 
hj  those  who  have  travelled  abroad.  I  have  seen  tinned 
cardoons  in  India,  but  not  the  vegetable  itself.  Accord- 
ing to  M.  Aiidot  the  strong  mid-ribs  of  the  leaves  of  white 
beetroot  (cardes  poirSes),  and  the  tender  stalks  of  globe 
artichokes  (pieds  d'artichauts)  form  a  nice  substitute.  The 
latter  should  be  scraped  free  from  their  fibrous  skin,  and 
stewed  iu  blanc  as  described  for  celery  a  la  moelle. 

In  order  to  blanch  the  artichoke  stems,  it  is  necessarj, 
after  the  vegetable  has  been  gathered,  to  bend  the  shoot 
down,  and  earth  it  up  :  the  parts  thus  covered  turn  whit-e, 
and  you  in  this  way  obtain  an  excellent  substitute  for 
cardoons. 


Salsify — (salsijis  on  scorsonera)  is  an  edible  root  which 
we  ought  to  grow  abundantly  in  India.  There  are  two 
kinds  of  this  vegetable  : — the  white  and  the  black.  The 
former  is  called  salsijis,  the  latter  scorsonera.  The  one  is 
gathered  in  its  first  year's  growth,  the  other  not  until  it  is 
two  years  old.  I  do  not  know  whether  any  of  our  horti- 
-cultural  societies  have  yet  introduced  salsify  or  not ;  in 
case  it  may  have  been  grown,  I  take  the  opportunity  of 
recommending  the  previous  recipe  (viz.  : — a  la  moelle)  as 
equally  applicable  to  the  gently  stewed  roots  of  this  plant. 

Salsify  has  a  very  perceptible  flavour  of  the  oyster  (is 
indeed  called  the  "  oyster  plant"  in  America),  and  forms 
several  delicious  entremets.  The  roots  peel  easily  when 
boiled,  and  the  pulp  is  as  white  as  snow.  Simply  mashed 
with  cream,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  with  a 
covering  of  bread-crumbs  strewn  over  it,  and  a  little  melted 
butter,  then  baked  till  brown,  and  served  in  coquilles, 
salsify  presents  an  exact  imitation  of  "  oysters  scalloped." 
Salsify  puree  with  cream  can  be  served  wherever  oyster 
isauce  is  recommended,   with   a  tasty   fillet   of   beef   for 


162  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

instance,  it  makes  a  most  toothsome  ^la^/V,  and  as  a  white 
Fonp    (puree)  it  can  be  sent  up  as  a  bisque  cVhuttres. 

Never  peel  black  salsify  (:<corsonera)  before  boiling,  for, 
if  cut,  it  "  sweats,''  and  loses  much  of  its  moisture.  Boil 
first,  and  peel  afterwards.  This  advice  is  the  result  of 
personal  experience. 

Asparagus,  and  seakale,  if  procui^ble,  should  be  picked 
carefiillj,  washed,  and  tied  up  in  little  bundles  with  all 
the  heads  level  :  then,  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  the  stalks 
should  also  be  cut  level.  Put  the  trimmed  bundles  into 
fast  boiling  water  with  a  good  allowance  of  salt  and  a 
little  sugar.  They  should  then  be  carefully  di'ained,  and 
served  an  nafnrel,  with  "  Diitcli  sauce,"  or  a  plain  dressing 
of  oil,  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt. 

The  following  wrinkle  is  given  by  the  author  of  Food 
and  Feeding : — 

"  Asparagus  of  the  stouter  sort,  always  when  of  the  giant 
Tariety,  should  be  cut  of  exactly  equal  lengths,  and  boiled 
standing  ends  (the  green  tips)  upwards,  in  a  deep  sauce-pan. 
Nearly  two  inches  of  the  heads  should  be  out  of  the  water 
— the  steam  sufficing  to  cook  them,  as  they  form  the  ten- 
derest  part  of  the  plant ;  while  the  hard  stalky  part  is 
rendered  soft  and  succulent  by  the  longer  boiling  which 
this  plan  permits.  A  period  of  thirty  or  forty  minutes  on 
the  plan  i^commended  will  render  fully  a  third  more  of 
the  stalk  delicious,  while  the  head  will  be  properly  cooked 
in  the  steam  alone." 

There  is  a  custom  followed  by  ignorant  English,  as  well 
as  by  native  cooks,  of  placing  a  slice  of  toasted  bread  in 
the  dish  destined  to  receive  a  bundle  of  asparagus,  seakale, 
&,c.,  over  which  they  finally  pour  a  plentiful  bath  of  taste- 
less flour  and  water  called  "  w^hite  sauce."  The  toast  is 
utterly  unnecessary,  and  the  sauce — butter  plainly  melted 


VEGETABLES— CONCLUDED.  163 

— ought  invariably  to  be  handed  round,  piping  hot,   in 
a  boat. 

A  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar  should  be  stirred  into 
the  "  Dutch  sauce,"  and  the  vegetable  having  been  care- 
fully di^ained  should  be  laid  in  a  very  hot  dish,  with  a  pat 
of  fresh  butter  or  maitre  d' hotel  butter  placed  on  top  of  it 
to  melt  over  all. 

Asparagus  ought  never  to  be  served  in  the  ordinary 
English  fashion  with  common  sauce  hlanclie.  Fresh  butter, 
melted,  with  salt,  and  a  drop  or  two  of  vinegar,  form  its 
simplest  and  nicest  aid. 

Tinned  asparagus  may  be  treated  exactly  in  the  same 
way  after  having  been  drained,  gently  washed  (by  pouring 
cold  water  over  it)  and  heated  up  in  the  bahi-marie,  or  in 
its  own  tin  (drained  and  washed)  placed  in  a  vessel  of 
hot  water,  the  water  reaching  about  half-way  up  the  tin. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  over-doing  tinned  asparagus, 
and  in  turning  it  into  the  dish  also,  lest  it  break.  "  Dutch 
sauce,"  in  a  piping  hot  boat,  should  accompany  it. 

A  very  nice  way  of  serving  tinned  asparagus  as  an 
entremets  is  iced,  with  pure  cream  also  iced  as  its  sauce. 
It  is,  in  this  way,  quite  the  best  "  dressed  vegetable"  for 
a  hot  weather  dinner. 

The  green  ends  of  asparagus  (^'points  d'asperges"')  form 
an  artistic  accompaniment  to  an  entree,  they  are  excellent 
when  added  to  a  clear  soup,  and  make  a  very  sTi-pevh  puree. 
"  Asparagus  peas"  are  made  by  chopping  the  green  ends 
of  the  shoots  into  dice,  and  treating  them  then  as  peas. 


And  this  leads  me  to  the  subject  of   tinned  vegetables. 

Nothing  proves  the  inferiority  of  the  English  system  of 
vegetable  cookery  more  palpably  than  the  futile  efforts  of 


i 


IQi  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

OTir  best  exporters  of  preserved  provisions  to  compete,  in 
this  particular  branch  of  their  business,  with  the  great 
French  and  American  firms.  Compare  the  tinned  <yro€n 
peas,  or  asparagus,  exported  by  Crosse  and  Blackwell  with 
the  petits  pois  verts,  or  asperges  we  get  from  France.  Of 
these  I  Iiave  ah-eadj-  spoken  ;  we  may  accordingly  proceed 
to  consider  : — 

Tinned  French  bea^s,  (haricots  verts).  Those  excellent 
vegetables  should  be  turned  out  upon  a  saute-^pan  tossed  in 
butter  until  hot,  and  served.  Or  they  may  be  treated  in 
any  of  the  methods  already  set  forth  for  fresh  haricots  verts. 
They  make  excellent  ^zi?Je.s%  and  may  be  cooked  with  othei' 
vegetables  in  a  macedoine  de  le'jiimes.  I  strongly  recom- 
mend them  to  be  served  a  la  cremc,  or  a  la  jwulette,  with  a 
saddle  of  mutton. 

Flageolets,  another  delicious  tinned  legume,  should  bo 
served  a  la  poulette,  or  a  la  creme,  or  ])lainly  d  la  niaitr' 
dliolel.  They  are  very  effective  wlicn  associated  with 
other  vegetables  "  a  la  viacedoiney 

FONDS  d'aktichauts,  if  delicately  handled,  may  be  cooked 
up  in  any  of  the  ways  recommended  for  the  fresh  arti- 
choke. 

Points  d'asperges  are,  as  a  rule,  too  soft  to  stand  much 
manipulation.  The  safest  plan  is  to  heat  them  en  bain- 
marie  in  their  tin,  and  then  to  turn  them  into  the  soup  or 
sauce  in  which  they  are  to  be  served.  They  make  an  ex- 
cellent addition  to  a  chaud-froid  if  placed  carefully  in  the 
centre  of  the  border  of  aspic.  Pure  iced  cream  is,  in  such 
circumstances,  their  best  sauce. 

Macedoine  de  legumes  as  a  central  garnish  for  cutlets 
can  hardly  be  surpassed.  The  viacedoine  must  be  gently 
heated  up  in  a  really  good  poulette,  or  bechamel  sauce,  and 
a.  spoonful  of  cream  should  be  added  if  possible. 


V EG  ETA  BLES—  CONCL  UDED.  1 65 

These  excellent  French  tinned  vegetables  make,  when 
cleverly  amalgamated,  a  most  delicious  salad.  For  this 
thev  should  be  iced. 


I  have  the  highest  respect  for  all  country  vegetables, 
and  have  given  recipes  for  cooking  brinjals,  (hinegun) , 
BANDEKAi,  (hlilndi),  GREENS,  (bliagee),  podolongkai,  (chu- 
choonda),  morixgakai,  (moorivgn),  &c.,  which  will  be  found 
amongst  my  'menus. 

Indian  corn,  or  maize.  Tarn.,  mncJcaclwlum ;  Hind., 
boota  ;  is  capable  of  artistic  treatment  a  VAmericaine, — 
stripped  from  the  young  pod,  boiled  like  peas,  and  then 
drained,  tossed  in  melted  butter,  peppered,  salted  and 
served.  Plenty  of  butter  is  a  sine  qua  non.  Or  the  corn 
may  be  stripped  off  after  boiling,  and  similarly  treated.  . 

It  is  useless  to  attempt  to  serve  Indian  corn  unless  the 
cobs  be  quite  young. 

All  country  beans,  from  the  '•  duffin"  bean  downwards, 
may  be  cooked,  when  nice  and  young,  as  broad-beans 
(feves  de  marais)  : — boiled,  with  plenty  of  salt  in  the 
water,  till  the  skins  crack,  then  peeled  and  tossed  in 
batter,  and  served:  or  they  may  be  sent  up  as  Si  puree 
somewhat  stiffly  worked. 

The  water  in  which  beans  are  cooked  should  be  hoiling 
when  they  are  first  put  in. 

Here  is  a  good  standard  dish  of  beans  (feves  a  la  hour- 
geoise)  : — 

Having  boiled  and  skinned  the  beans,  turn  them  into  a 
stew-pan  over  a  slow  fire  with  a  table-spoonful  of  tinned 
butter  ;  mix  with  them  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  mois- 
ten with  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  beans  were  boiled  ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  when  nice  and  creamy, 
serve. 


166  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Dried  haricot  beans  (Soissons)  are  now  procurable  in 
India,  a  few  leading  firms  having  imported  them  in  the 
bag  from  France,  and  America.  These  vegetables  will  be 
found  most  valuable,  for  they  are  very  nutritious  and 
wholesome.  They  must  be  soaked  for  at  least  twelve 
hours,  and  then  be  placed  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt, 
and  gradually  boiled.  When  boiling  point  has  been 
attained,  the  vessel  should  be  drawn  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  its  contents  simmered  till  they  are  soft.  They  should 
be  served  with  a  pat  of  butter  melting  among  them,  a  dust 
of  freshly  ground  black  pepper,  and  salt.  Bacon,  cut  into 
dice  and  fried,  may  be  introduced  with  them  or  they  may 
be  served  a  la  'potdelte,  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  or  with  brown 
sauce.  When  served  in  brown  sauce  with  a  leg  of  mutton,  a 
sauce  soiihise  accompanying,  you  have  yigot  a  la  Bretonne. 

These  beans  (Lima)  are  exported  from  America  in  cans, 
already  cooked.     They  can  be  served  as  above  described. 

For  country  greens,  follow  the  receipts  given  for 
spinach,  sorrel,  endive,  and  turnip-tops. 

A  vegetable  can  always  be  got  in  the  hot  weather  called 
(locally)  "  mollat"  the  tender  branches  or  stalks  of  which 
are  edible,  ("  mollay-keeray").  Treated  as  laid  down  for 
asparagus,  you  will  find  this  vegetable  worth  trying. 

Be  sure  that  the  stalks  are  nice  and  young,  cut  them 
into  three  inch  lengths,  tie  them  in  bundles,  and  boil  them 
in  boiling  salt  and  water,  then  drain  carefully,  and  serve 
them  with  a  nice  sharp  sauce  in  a  boat ;  or  iced,  with 
cream.  The  young  leaves  of  this  plant  can  also  be  dressed 
as  spinach. 

Water-cress  common  on  our  Hills,  and  fi-equently  grown 
in  private  gardens,  can  be  dressed  like  spinach,  and  in 
that  form  will  be  found  most  tasty. 

Young  PUMKiNS,  "  DiL-pussuND,"  or  MARROWS,  gathered 
prematurely   (when  the  size  of  a  duck's  egg)  boiled,  and 


VEGETABLES— CONCLUDED.  167 

served  as  described  for  artichoke  bottoms,  are  exceedingly 
nice. 

Purees  of  sweet  potatoes,  and  yams,  if  assisted  by  cream, 
are  very  eatable.  Fritters  of  the  former  are  nice  if  the 
slices  be  marinaded  in  a  little  brandy  and  lime-juice,  and 
then  dipped  in  a  well-made  batter.  Yams  may  be  treated 
in  most  of  the  ways  recommended  for  potatoes. 

In  short,  if  we  look  about  us,  and  try  our  best  to  make 
the  most  of  the  vegetables  of  the  country,  by  careful 
cookery  of  the  reformed  school,  we  need  never  be  without 
a  pleasant  dish  to  relieve  the  ding-dong  monotony  of  our 
market  supplies.  The  more  you  hunt  about  amongst  the 
produce  of  the  native  gardens,  the  more  surprised  you  will 
be  at  the  opportunities  afforded  you  of  practising  your 
culinary  ingenuity.  For  over  a  century  we  have  been 
contented  to  see  a  few  country  vegetables  sent  up  in 
curries,  and  in  curries  only,  never  attempting  to  develop 
their  latent  good  qualities  by  artistic  treatment. 

There  are  times  when  the  supply  of  vegetables  grown 
from  English  seed  may  fail  us,  or  when  we  cannot  expect 
to  procure  them  ;  when  on  the  line  of  march,  for  instance, 
out  in  the  jungles,  or  when  quartered  at  some  little  place 
far  from  the  busy  haunts  of  our  fellow  white  men  ;  the 
amateur  who  has  studied  native  vegetables  will  then  dis- 
cover that  his  time  has  not  been  thrown  away. 


OPi^^IPTEIEB     Z^^-VII. 


Rechauffes. 

jTTF  the  art  of  dishin!:^  up  nicely  the  remains  of  cold  meat, 
Uf  fish,  and  vegetables,  were  more  closely  studied  than 
it  is,  the  fair  chatelaine  would  not  look  upon  cold 
mutton,  cold  beef,  &c;,  with  the  feelings  of  despair  that  I 
fear  too  often  possess  her-,  there  would  be  much  less 
wastefulness,  and  our  breakfast  and  luncheon  tables  would 
be  far  more  easily  supplied  than  they  are.  Has  not- some 
thrifty  professor  of  kitchen  lore  actually  dedicated  a  little 
book  to  the  mysteries  of  cooking  cold  mutton,  and  how  to 
penetrate  them  ?  I  have  never  seen  the  work,  but,  without 
boasting,  I  think  I  could  fill  a  couple  of  chapters  myself 
upon  a  similar  theme. 

The  mistake  most  of  us  make  is  one  on  the  side  of  same- 
ness. AVe  pick  up  a  tasty  recipe  for  warming  up  fish,  a 
cunning  method  of  treating  cold  vegetables,  or  a  marvel- 
lously good  M-rinkle  about  a  hash,  and  ring  the  changes  on 
our  small  stock  of  knowledge  ad  nauseam.  The  most  ar- 
tistic rechauffe  will  lose  its  charm  if  repeated  too  often,  and 
the  appetite, — especially  the  Anglo -Indian  appetite — soon 
tii'es  of  a  flavour  too  frequently  offered  it.  There  is  no 
fault  that  a  native  cook  is  more  likely  to  acquire  than  this, 
so  we  should  take  pains  to  remove  from  his  control  mate- 
rials which  are  likely  to  minister  to  his  failing.     Let  all 


RECHAUFFES.  169 


your  pungent  sauces,  and  essences,  be  kept  under  lock  and 
key,  and  give  out,  from  time  to  time,  tlie  doles  that  are 
necessary  for  delicate  flavouring.  If  you  do  tliis,  your 
hashes  will  cease  to  be  slices  of  meat,  cooked  up  in  hot 
water  and  Worcester  sauce,  thickened  with  flour  ;  neither 
will  your  minces,  croquettes^  cassolettes^  <^"C-,  be  presented 
with  a  sauce  similarly  comjDOsed. 

There  are  certain  hard  and  fast  laws  to  be  observed 
generally  with  regard  to  the  treatment  of  cold  meat,  &c., 
which  ought  never  to  be  forgotten.  Let  me  enume- 
rate them  : — 

1.  Always  cut  off  carefully  all  parts  that  have  been 
hroionecl  in  the  previous  cooking,  such  as  skin^  &c. 

2.  Use  the  trimmings,  and  all  bones,  assisted  by  any- 
thing you  may  have  to  spare,  to  make  the  strongest  broth 
you  can  for  your  rechauffe. 

3.  Be  generous  in  your  allowance  of  butter  and  eggs, 
and,  if  recommended  in  the  recipe  you  are  following,  do 
not  refuse  a  small  modicum  of  cream. 

4.  Never  be  without  red- currant j  elly ,  olives,  anchovies, 
grated  cheese,  grated^bread-crunibs  (bottled),  mushroom- 
ketchup,  o^od  vinegar,  bottled  garden  herbs,  and  a  mild 
sauce  like  Harvey;. 

5.  Try  to  maintain  a  little  kitchen  garden,  in  large 
pots,  or  boxes,  containing  English  curled  parsley,  marjo- 
ram, thyme,  garden-cress,  and  celery.  The  last  need  not 
be  planted  for  its  root's  sake,  the  leaves  and  stalks  provide 
the  cook  with  his  flavouring  agent, 

6.  Teach  your  cook  that  meat  that  has  been  once  cook-  '  / 
ed,  does  not  require  to  be  boiled  or  stewed  de  novo.     Des- 
cribe a  hash  or  a  mince  to  him  as  meat  gently  warmed  u]i 
in  gravy  or  sauce  separately  made  to  receive  it. 

You  must  now  turn  back  to  Chapter  X  in  which  I  tried 
t-o  explain  the  fundamental    principles  of   sauce-making. 

15 


170  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

The  success  of  the  recliaufe  wholly  depends  upon  the  care 
bestowed  upon  the  composition  of  the  sauce  in  which  it  is 
heated  up  ;  or  by  which  it  is  enriched  and  diluted.  This 
maxim  holds  good  no  matter  what  your  dish  may  be  :  the 
hash,  the  salmis,  the  mince,  the  croquette,  croustade,  casso- 
lette, little  patty,  hramo2isK-ij,  ^'c,  cjr.,  all  lean  upon  their 
a^    Espagnole  or  veloute  as  the  case  may  be. 

Cold  fish  of  any  kind  gives  us  valuable  material  for 
little  breakfast  dishes.  Fairly  large  slices  of  firm  fish,  not 
overboiled  in  the  first  instance,  may  be  advantageously 
warmed  up  whole,  au  gratin,  or  in  a  nicely-made  white  or 
brown  sauce  flavoured  according  to  taste,  and  accompanied 
by  pieces  of  cooked  cucumber,  or  vegetable  marrow.  But 
if  at  all  broken  up,  it  is  better  to  serve  cold  fish  en  caisses, 
or  en  corpdlles,  or  to  work  it  up  into  croquettes  or  crous- 
tades.  Broken  fragments  of  cold  fish  are  very  nice  when 
added  to,  and  tossed  about  with,  a  goodly  allowance  of 
"  buttered-egg."  This  can  be  served  on  toasts,  or  poured 
out  upon  a  silver  dish.  A  colouring  of  tomato  sauce  is  an 
improvement. 

Another  tasteful  way  of  serving  cold  fish  is  to  cut  it 
into  small  pieces,  like  a  coarse  mince,  and  toss  it  about  in 
a  hot  sauce-pan  containing  some  previously  boiled,  hot 
maccaroni,  stirring  in  with  it  a  bountiful  supply  of  melted 
butter,  and  a  little  tomato  -puree  (or  sauce)  ;  when  the  con- 
tents of  the  sauce-pan  are  thoroughly  well  heated,  turn 
them  out  on  a  very  hot  dish,  and  serve  at  once.  This  can, 
of  coui'se,  be  composed  upon  a  charcoal  fire  in  the  veran- 
dah, hard  by  the  dining-room  door.  Gentlemen,  whose 
appetites  require  stimulating,  may  fancy  some  chopped 
green  chilli,  some  cayenne  or  Nepaul  pepper,  or  a  few 
drops  of  "  Tabasco  ;"  but,  to  my  mind,  the  dish  is  better 
without  a  suspicion  of  the  evil  one. 

Cold  fish  is  almost  invariably  presented  to  you  by  Ra- 
masamy  in  the  form  of  what  he  is  pleased  to  call  "  fish- 


RECHAUFFES.  171 


pudding."  This  is  sometimes  nice,  and  sometimes  very 
nasty.  To  be  nice,  a  good  deal  of  butter  {good  butter 
please,  not  four-annas-a-cup-composition, — "  I  beg  your 
pardon,")  is  necessary  with,  the  mashed  potato,  with  a  little 
cream,  or  some  fresh  milk  helped  up  with  the  yolk  of  an 
Q^g,  and  a  few  drops  of  anchovy  sauce  ;  Ramasamy  being 
at  the  same  time  entreated  not  to  make  the  mould  into  a 
pretty  pattern  with  quarters  of  hard-boiled  egg,  &c.,  an 
effect  which  cannot  be  achieved  without  free  use  of  his 
finger  and  thumb.  "  Twice-laid,"  as  this  dish  is  called  at 
Home,  cannot  be  sent  up  better  than  in  a  simiole  mould 
like  mashed  potato,  streaked  with  a  fork  outside,  and 
baked  till  it  takes  a  pale  brown  tint.  Chopped  hard- 
boiled  egg  may  be  stirred  into  the  fish  and  potatoes  with 
advantage. 

The  hest  fish  pudding  is  that  made  of  pieces  of  cooked 
fish  steamed  in  a  savoury  custard.  This  is  turned  out  like 
a  pudding,  and  served  with  any  nice  fish  sauce. 

Kegeree  (kitchri)  of  the  English  type  is  composed  of 
boiled  rice,  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  cold  minced  fish,  and 
a  lump  of  fresh  butter :  these  are  all  tossed  together  in 
the  frying-pan,  flavoured  with  pepper,  salt,  and  any  minced 
garden  herb  such  as  cress,  parsley,  or  marjoram,  and  served 
smoking  hot. 

If  your  cook  be  a  good  hand  at  puff-pastry,  you  may 
have  worse  fare  at  luncheon  than  petits  pates  of  minced 
fish.  The  salpicon  must  be  diluted  with  a  rich  sauce,  and 
flavoured  with  whatever  herb  you  like  best.  A  far-off- 
thought  of  celery  is  not  to  be  despised. 

For  the  sauce  in  which  you  mean  to  re-cook  fish,  do 
not  forget  the  bones  and  trimmings.  A  broth  made  of 
fish  bones,  with  a  few  pepper  corns,  a  sliced  sweet  onion, 
a  bit  of  celery,  a  piece  of  lime  peel,  and  an  anchovy  instead 
of  salt,  yields  you  a  capital  liquid  which,  when  strained 


172  CULINARY  JOTTIXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

and  -worked  up  -VN'itli  melted  butter  and  flour,  generally 
produces  a  favourable  impression. 

The  chief  features  to  be  noted  in  cooking  hashes  and 

MINCES  are  much  the  same.     Pi^pare  the  meat,  after  having 

carefully  cut  off  all  browned  parts,   as  you  may  desire. 

[Make  the  best  broth   you  can  with  the  tinmming-s   and 

I  bones  ;  if  you  have  any  stock  or  gi'avy  so  much  the  better  ; 

j  thicken  slightly,  and  flavour  this  according  to  your  taste, 

and  the  mateHals  that  may  be  within  your  reach  ,-  strain  it 

if  necessary,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Madeira,  or  Marsala, 

[and  thc-n  warm  up  your  meat.     A  mince,  or  a  hash,  should 

,'be  allowed  to  stand  in  its  sauce,  with  a  geiitlcjieat  under 

the  sauce-pan,  for  as  long  a  time  as  can  be  allowed ;  when 

rcrpiired  for  the  table,  increase  the  heat,  and  the  moment 

( fjicjuirfa^e_stc(uns^  the  di.sli  is  ready  for  service. 

"  Bnt,"  says  the  inquisitive  disciple,  "  what  are  you  to  do 
\i  3'ou  have  no  bones,  no  gi'avy,  and  no  stock  ?"  to  him 
I  reply  as  follows  : — After  having  trimmed  the  meat  to 
your  fancy,  take  all  the  skin  and  ugly  fragments  that 
remain,  and  place  them  on  a  separate  plate.  Now,  choose 
a  Bombay  onion,  and  mince  it  fine ;  place  a  good  sized 
sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  put  a  pat  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of 
it  (say  a  couple  of  ounces  if  you  can  spare  as  much)  melt 
it,  throw  in  the  minced  onion,  fry  it  a  light  golden  broAvn, 
add  hot  water  now  gradually,  and  throw  in  your  scraps  of 
meat,  six  pepper  corns,  a  tea-sjioonful  of  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  an  anchovy,  a  piece  of  celery  or  its  leaves, 
a  carrot  cut  up,  a  bunch  of  curly  paisley,  the  peel  of  a 
lime,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  with  ji 
dessert-spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  let  the  contents  of  your 
sauce-pan  simmer  away  until  you  are  satisfied  that  you 
have  extracted  all  the  good  to  be  got  out  of  your  several 
ingredients.  Taste  the  broth  as  it  is  cooking,  and  correct 
any  errors  that  may  occur  to  you  on  the  spot :  when  ready, 
strain  it  into  a  bowl,  and  skim  off  any  fat  that  may  rise. 


RECHAUFFES.  173 


Xow,  take  another  sauce-pan,  and  go  tlirougli  tlie  usual 
process  of  thickening  the  broth  ;  it  will  then  be  ready  to 
receive  the  meat  you  desire  to  re-cook.  A  table-spoonful 
of  Madeira,  or  Marsala  ;  a  little  red  cui^ant  jelly,  and  port- 
wine  ;  some  claret  or  burgundy  if  at  hand  ;  the  pulp  of  a 
couple  of  tomatoes  ;  or  the  strained  yolks  of  two  eggs,  may 
be  added  to  enrich  your_pZa;^.  The  egg  should  be  stirred 
in  after  the  sauce-pan  has  been  removed  from  the  fire. 
The  tomato  gives  a  piquancy  to  all  hashes,  and  minces, 
superior  to  that  which  can  be  procured  by  vinegars.  Your 
selection  of  the  wine  that  you  use  must  depend,  of  course, 
upon  the  sort  of  meat  you  are  cooking  up. 

In  the  case  of  a  mince,  remember,  that  when  the  meat 
has  been  passed  through  the  machine,  it  must  be  diluted 
with  a  good  thick  sauce,  in  which  it  should  be  gently 
heated.  Just  before  serving,  it  may  be  enriched  with  the 
raw  yolks  of  a  couple  eggs — off  the  fire. 

Having  done  this,  you  can  diversify  the  methods  of 
serving  it  as  follows  : — 

1.  Make  a  light  o?neZei^fe.  When  all  but  ready  to  serve, 
spread  your  mince  quickly  on  top  of  the  omelette,  toss  the 
omelette  in  the  pan  lightly,  and  roll  it  oif  into  the  hot  dish, 
enveloping  the  mince,  and  serve.  This  must  not  look  like 
a  "  roly-poly"  pudding.  The  omelette  should  not  be  made 
as  stilf  as  a  batter  dumpling  as  Ramasamy  loves  to  serve 
it.  I  will  tell  you  how  to  make  an  omelette,  properly  in 
my  next  chapter. 

2-  Make  a  case  of  mashed  potato,  with  high  sides  like 
a  vol-an-vent  case,  and  pour  your  mince  into  it. 

3.  Hollow  out  a  number  of  small  dinner  rolls,  butter 
them,  and  fry  them  a  golden  yellow  :  pour  your  mince 
into  them,  put  a  curl  of  fried  bacon  on  the  top  of  each, 
keat  them  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  and  serve. 


1  74  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

4.  Make  a  number  of  little  potato  cases,  and  fill  them 
in  the  same  way  :  or  if  yon  have  tliem,  nse  the  paper  or 
china  cases  so  universally  used  in  England  now. 

5.  Make  some  light  puff-paste,  form  it  into  patties  like 
oyster  patty  pastry,  bake,  fill  them  when  ready  with  the 
mince,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

6.  Or, — cut  the  paste  in  circles  three  inches  in,  diame- 
ter, place  a  dessert-spoonful  of  the  mince  in  the  centre  of 
each,  fold  them  over,  pinch  the  edges  all  round,  and  fry  a 
golden  yellow  in  a  bath  of  boiling  fat. 

7.  Serve  it  plain,  on  a  hot  dish,  garnished  with  sippets 
oi  fried  bread,  fried  curls  of  bacon,  and  slices  of  lime,  and 
put  a  poached  c^g  or  two  on  the  top  of  it. 

With  reference  to  the  above,  remember,  that  toasted 
bread  is  not  fried  bread.  Ramasamy  is  apt  not  to  distin- 
guish very  carefully  between  the  two  ;  and  whereas  n 
crisp  piece  of  fried  bread  is  an  agi-eeablc  adjunct  to  certain 
dishes  ;  sodden,  slightly  smoked  toast  is  inexpressibly  dis- 
agreeable anywhere. 

Bacon  is  valuable  with  all  rechavfes  of  meat,  and 
poached  eggs  are  acceptable  with  hashes,  and  minces. 
Ham,  I  need  scarcely  say,  if  on  hand,  can  be  turned  to  the 
very  best  account,  and  tongue  also,  for  that  matter,  to 
assist  the  flavouring  of  minces,  croq^iettes,  rissoles,  et  hoc 
genus  omne. 

^Minced  ham  or  tongue  with  minced  corned  beef,  mashed 
up  with  some  well  boiled  potatoes,  hard  boiled  egg,  and 
plenty  of  melted  butter,  and  cooked  in  the  fashion  of 
"  twice-laid,"  is  a  nice  dish  for  a  change  at  breakfast. 

Maccaroni,  and  dustings  of  Parmesan  (or  any  mild 
grated  cheese)  vary  the  monotony  of  warmed-up  meats 
immensely,  and  go  well  with  nearly  every  cold  vegetable. 
Try  this  sometimes  : — Having  made  a  really  good  ivhite 


RECHAUFFES.  175 


sauce,  lay  your  trimmed  fillets  of  cold  fish,  rabbit,  or 
chicken,  in  a  shallow  pie-dish  upon  a  layer  of  maccaroni, 
previously  boiled  till  tender,  pour  the  sauce  over  all,  gar- 
nish with  slices  of  tomato,  dust  over  all  a  dressing  of 
grated  cheese,  bake  till  lightly  browned,  and  serve.  The 
same  recipe  is  practicable  with  brown  meats,  only  make 
a  brown  sauce  to  start  with,  instead  of  a  white. 

Batter  plays  its  part  effectively  amongst  recliauffes. 
Any  nice  mince,  boimd  with  egg,  rolled  in  slices  of  coolied 
bacon,  then  dipped  in  batter  and  fried  in  lots  of  fat, 
presents  a  toothsome  kramousliy.  Fish  fillets,  dipped  in 
the  same  way,  and  fried,  are  nice  ;  and  so  are  fillets  of 
rabbit,  or  chicken. 

If  not  overdone,  thick  slices  of  tender  beef,  or  of  mutton, 
may  be  dipped  in  melted  butter,  and  broiled  over  a  fast 
charcoal  fire;  or  they  may  be  marinaded  (vide  page  65). 
then  bread-crumbed  with  nice  stale  crumbs,  and  fried  a 
golden  brown.  These  served  with  a  macedoine  de  legumes, 
sauce  souhise,  horse  radish  sauce,  tomato,  or  tartare  are 
delicious  ;  but  the  meat  must  be  really  juicy,  or,  in  plainer 
terms,  must  have  been  slightly  underdone  in  the  first 
instance. 

Apropos  of  batter,  I  must  not  forget  to  say,  that  pounded 
fish,  incorporated  with  batter,  that  is  to  say,  worked  into 
it,  and  fried  in  seething  fat  by  dropping  the  mixture  into 
the  pan  by  spoonfuls  at  a  time,  produces  a  dish  of  fritters 
most  welcome  at  breakfast  alone,  or  capital  as  a  garnish 
for  a  larger  dish  of  fish. 

A  remarkably  nice  little  dish,  also  contrived  with  batter, 
is  the  crepe  de  poisson,  or  indeed  of  anything.  The  crepe 
is  a  pancake.  Picture  to  yourself  a  nicely-made  thin 
pancake  : — spread  it  out  upon  a  fiat  dish,  and  cut  it  into 
pieces  two  inches  wide,  and  three  inches  long.  Upon  the 
surface  of  each  piece,  place  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  slightly 


176  CULIXARY  JOTTL\GS  FOR  MADRAS. 

smaller  eacli  way  than  the  crepe,  over  the  bacon  put  a  table- 
spoonfnl  of  any  nice  mince,  well  worked  with  an  egg 
or  two,  and  a  little  cold  sauce  to  give  it  moisture  and 
cohesion  :  then  roll  up  your  crepes,  put  them  on  a  buttered 
tin,  brush  them  with  a  whipped  egg,  bread-crumb  them, 
and  bake  brown  in  the  oven. 

Cold  vegetables,  such  as  cauliflowers,  cabbage,  Jeru- 
salem artichokes,  and  vegetable  marrows,  may  be  mashed 
up  with  potatoes,  or  alone,  diluted  with  melted  buttci-, 
cream,  or  milk  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  strained  into  it, 
dusted  over  with  grated  cheese,  and  cooked  aii  gratin. 
Mixed  vegetables  may  be  cut  into  dice  and  warmed  up  in 
white  sauce  a  la  macedoine  de  legumes,  and  cold  peas,  cauli- 
flower, French  beans,  and  cabbage,  may  be  tossed  in  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  served  a  la  mail  re  dlwtel.  You  will 
find  a  good  m.any  recipes  for  the  treatment  of  cooked  vege- 
tables in  the  chapters  I  have  devoted  to  that  especial 
subject. 

No  more  useful  present  could  well  be  given  to  a  young 
lady  commencing  house-keeping  than  a  set  of  silver,  or 
silver-plated  coquilles  (scallop  shells).  Served  in  these  in- 
viting looking  little  dishes,  a  mince,  or  a  rechauffe  of  vege- 
tables, is  worthy  of  a  place  at  any  table.  A  puree  of  arti- 
choke, capped  with  finely-grated  cheese,  any  cold  fish, 
minced  game,  even  the  remains  of  a  maccaroni  au  gratin, 
sent  up  in  this  tasty  manner,  seem  ever  so  much  nicer 
than  in  an  ordinary  way.  The  shells  should  be  well 
buttered  before  operations  are  commenced,  and  the  mince 
or  chopped  vegetable  should  be  well  diluted  with  sauce  to 
keep  it  nice  and  moist.  The  surface  should  be  sprinkled 
over  with  cheese  or  finely  rasped  crumbs.  When  quite 
hot,  brown  the  crumbs  with  a  hot  iron  salamander-fashion, 
and  serve  the  shells  tastily  on  a  napkin.  Crisply  fried 
curly  parsley  may  garnish  them. 


Oii^^IPTEI^     Z^^^sTZII. 


The  Savoury  Omelette. 

iREATHES  there  a  man  with  soul  so  dead"  that 
he  can  read  the  great  Brillat  Savarm's  account 
of  the  Cure's  omelette  unmoved  ?  Short  as  the 
little  storj  is,  jou  feel  yourself  absolutely  at  table  with 
the  worthy  padre, — a  man  of  culture,  and  refinement.  It 
is  Friday,  and  the  little  banquet  is  kept  strictly  within 
the  canons  of  the  Church,  yet  there  is  an  artist's  hand 
apparent  in  its  subtle  simplicity.  The  fish  soup,  the 
trout,  the  omelette,  the  salad,  the  cheese,  and  dessert ;  the 
snowy  cloth,  the  choice  china,  and  the  "  old  wine  which 
sparkled  in  a  crystal  decanter,"  tell  us  plainly  that  science, 
and  good  taste,  can  make  even  a  fast  enjoyable.  But 
amongst  all  the  daintiness  that  marks  the  little  banquet, 
that  omelette  is  undoubtedly  the  prominent  feature.  You 
can  see  it,  you  can  smell  it,  you  can  almost  taste  it. 

Xow,  there  is  something  cheering  in  this  little  chapter. 
We  can  throw  ourselves  back  in  our  long  arm-chair,  and, 
with  half  closed  eyes,  make  that  very  omelette,  here  in  India. 
Or  one  so  like  it,  that  we  need  hardly  lament  our  inability 
to  procui^e  carp's  roes.  This  I  hope  presently  to  show  you. 
There  is  another  source  of  satisfaction  in  our  musing,  and 
that  is,  that  with  moderate  forethought  we  ought  never  to 
be  unable  to  make  a  g'ood  savoury  omelette,  whether  in 
camp,  at  a  traveller's  bungalo-^v,  at  a  picnic,  or  in  the  privacy 


178  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

of  our  back  verandali  in  cantonment.  Eggs,  tliougli 
neither  as  clieap,  nor  as  plentiful  as  in  days  of  yore,  are 
still  to  be  got  :  we  can  obtain  cliarcoal,  and  a  broken 
chatty  to  hold  it :  Ave  can  get  an  iron  o»ieZe^^e-pan,  made 
to  order,  in  the  bazar :  we  need  never  be  without  a  tin 
of  "  Normandy,"  "  Denmark,"  or  "  cow  brand"  butter  : 
or,  failing  that,  a  bottle  of  the  best  salad  oil.  Salt,  pepper, 
and  a  bottle  of  di-ied  parsley  ought  not  to  be  beyond  our 
I'cach,  and  an  onion  is  not  an  exjiensive  luxury.  Thus 
provided,  we  ought  to  be  in  a  position  to  turn  out  a 
capital  dish,  very  rapidly,  at  any  time,  and  anywhere. 

Omelettes,  as  you  all  know,  can  be  diversified  ad  libitum  : 
we  need  never,  therefore,  be  afraid  of  falling  back  upon 
them. 

Before  I  proceed  to  the  discussion  of  omeZe^^e-making, 
however,  let  me  point  out  that  Ramasamy  has  been 
led  astray  altogether  witli  regard  to  this  branch  of  his 
art.  He  sends  you  up  a  very  nice  pudding,  symmetri- 
cal in  design,  of  a  goodly  consistency,  and  of  a  rich  brown 
colour.  You  almost  require  a  dessert-knife  to  help  it.  It 
is,  of  course,  lighter  somewhat,  than  a  *  roly-poly'  pudding 
made  of  paste,  but  it  greatly  resembles  that  homely  com- 
position. It  is  a  first  cousin  of  the  pancake,  and  Rama- 
samy  evidently  uses  the  stuff  of  which  it  is  made  to  coat 
his  plantains  when  bidden  to  make  fritters.  He  starts 
wrongly  to  commence  with,  when  mixing  his  omelette. 
In  addition  to  the  eggs  (the  whites  of  which  he  whips 
separately)  he  puts  in  a  little  flour,  some  milk  or  a  little 
water,  and,  in  point  of  fact,  makes  a  lightish  sort  of 
hatter.  This,  I  regret  to  say,  ho  vigorously  whips,  and 
fries  in  a  fair  amount  of  ghee,  folding  it  into  shape,  and 
keeping  it  on  the  fire  till  it  is  nice  and  firm,  and  colom^ed 
as  I  before  described.  That  this  is  no  more  an  omelette 
than  our  old  friend  "  the  man  in  the  moon"  I  need  hardly 
assure  you.     Native  cooks  are  nevertheless  very    easily 


THE  SA  VO UR Y  OMELETTE.  1  7 9 

taught  how  to  make  one  properly,  and  rarely  fail  after  a 
patient  exemplification  of  the  correct  method. 

I  must  confess  that  with  the  exception  of  "  the  Cure's 
omelette"    previously    alluded   to,    I    never   picked    up    a 
wrinkle  concerning  this  excellent  dish  from  a  book.     I 
have  never  come  across  a  dissertation  on  oj)<eZef/e-making 
which  seemed  to  have  been  written  by  a  man  who  had 
viade  one  himself.     The  manner  in  which  I  learnt,  the  little 
I  know  on  the  subject  was  as  follows  : — I  was  marching 
with  a  Regiment  from  Bangalore  to  Secunderabad.     At  a 
place  called  Pennaconda,   in  the   Bellary  District,  I  was 
most  hospitably  entertained  by  a  Member  of  the  Madras 
Civil   Service.     Though  so  far  away  from   any  civilized 
place,  the  dinner  placed  before  me  in  the  quondam  public 
bungalow  in  which  my  host  resided  might  have  graced  a 
^etit  tahle  in  the  stranger's  room  of   a  London  Club.     His 
breakfast  was  an  equally  artistic  meal,  and  was  concluded 
by  an  omelette, — made   on  the  spot, — by  my  accomplished 
friend  himself.     If  this  imperfect  essay  happen  to  catch 
his  eye,  he  will,  I  am  sure,  forgive  the  honest  tribute  of 
his  grateful  pupil.      Calling  for  a  slop-basin,  he  broke  into 
it  four  ordinary  country  fowl's  eggs  whole,  and  added  the 
yolks  only  of  two  more.     He  thus  had  six  yolks,  and  four 
whites.     These  he  thoroughly  mixed  by  using  two  forks  : 
he  did  not   heat  them   at   all.     When  thoroughly  satisfied 
that  incorporation  had  been  effected,  he  flavoured  the  mix- 
ture with  a  salt-spoonful  of   salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  very 
finely  minced  shallot,  a  heaped  up  table-spoonful  of  minced 
curly  parsley  (grown  in  his  garden)  and — to  crown  all — a 
table-spoonful  of  really  rich  cream.     He  stirred  this  for  a 
minute,   and,  as  far  as  its  first  stage  was   concerned,  the 
omelette  was  ready.     We  now  left  the  dining-room  for  the 
verandah  where  there  was  a  good  charcoal  fire  in  an  iron 
brasier,  (a  half  chatty  would  have  sufficed  of  course)  and 
upon  it  a  pan  about  ten  inches  in  diameter,  very  shallow, 


180  CULINARY  JOTTIXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

with  a  narrow  rim  well  sloped  outwards.  A  pat  of  butter 
was  melted  in  the  pan,  sufficient  in  quantity  to  thoroughly 
Uibrieate  the  whole  of  its  surface,  and  leave  a  coating  of 
nioistm^e  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  deep  over  all.  As  soon 
as  ready,  quite  burning  hot, — the  butter  having  ceased  to 
splutter,  and  beginning  to  brown, — with  one  good  stir 
round,  the  mixture  was  poured  into  the  pan.  At  the 
moment  of  contact,  the  underpart  of  omelette  formed,  this  ^ 
was  instantly  lifted  by  the  spoon,  and  the  unformed  por- 
tion allowed  to  run  beneath  it ;  the  left  hand,  holding  the  I 
pan,  and  playing  it,  as  it  were,  from  side  to  side  :  With 
one  good  shake,  the  pan  (in  less  than  a  minute  from  the  time 
of  commencing  operations)  was  lifted  from  the  fire,  and  its 
contents  rolled  off  into  the  hot  silver  dish  at  hand  to  receive 
it,  in  which  a  little  melted  butter,  with  some  minced  parsley 
and  shallot,  had  been  prepared.  The  omelette,  as  it  rolled 
of  its  own  accord  from  the  pan,  caught  up,  and  buried 
within  it,  the  slightly  unformed  juicy  part  of  the  mixture 
which  still  remained  on  the  surface  ;  and,  as  it  lay  in  the  . 
dish,  was  without  any  special  shape,  of  a  golden  yellow 
colour,  flecked  with  green,  with  the  juicy  part  escapinL" 
from  beneath  its  folds. 

An  omelette  ought  never  to  be  stiff  enough  to  retain  a 
rolled-up  appearance.  Being  so  rapidly  cooked,"  it  ought 
to  be  too  light  to  present  a  fixed  form,  and,  on  reaching 
the  hot  dish,  should  spread  itself  rather,  on  account  of  its 
very  frothiness.  Books  that  counsel  you  to  tur7i  an  omelette, 
to  fold  it,  to  let  it  brown  on  one  side,  to  let  it  fry  for  about 
five  minutes,  &c.,  are  not  to  be  trusted.  If  you  follow  such 
advice,  you  will  only  produce,  at  best,  an  egg  pudding. 

Timed  by  the  seconds  hand  of  a  watch  an  omelette  of 
six  eggs,  cooked  as  I  have  described,  took  forty-five  seconds 
from  the  moment  of  being  poured  into  the  pan  to  that  of 
being  turned  into  the  dish. 

The  omelette  we  have  just  discussed  is  that  generally 


I 


I 


THE  SA  VO  UR  Y  OMELETTE.  1 8 1 

known  as  "  aux  fines  lierhes^^ : — tlie  ordinary  one  is  simply 
made  of  eggs  flavoured  with  salt.  Thongh.  cream  is  an  im- 
provement, it  is  not  essential.  I  confess  tliat  I  like  a  very 
little  minced  onion  in  all  savoury  omelettes,  but  tliis  is  a 
matter  of  taste,  and  where  ladies  are  concerned,  the 
fragrant  bulb  ought  perhaps  to  be  omitted.  The  general 
rules  to  be  observed  in  omeZe^^e-making,  then,  may  be  thus 
summed  up  :— 

1.  Use  a  proper  utensil,  with  narrow,  well  sloping 
sides  5  see  that  it  is  clean,  and  quite  dry. 

2.  Do  not  overdo  the  amount  of  butter,  or  salad  oil, 
that  you  use  for  the  frying. 

3.  Mix,  do  not  heat  the  eggs,  and  never  use  more  than 
six  as  in  the  Pennaconda  omelette.  It  is  better  to  make 
two  of  six,  than  one  of  twelve  eggs. 

4.  Three  eggs,  mixed  whole,  make  a  nice  sized  omelette. 

5.  Be  sure  that  your  pan  is  ready  to  receive  your  mix- 
ture. If  not  hot  enough,  the  omelette  will  be  leathery,  or 
you  will  have  to  mix  it  in  the  pan  like  "  scrambled  eggs" 
— (oeufs  hrouilUs). 

6.  The  moment  the  butter  ceases  to  fizz,  and  assumes  a 
pale  brown  tint,  the  pan  is  ready. 

7.  Instantly  lift  up  the  part  of  the  omelette  that  sets  at 
the  moment  of  contact,  and  let  the  unformed  mixture  run 
under  it ;  repeat  this  if  the  pan  be  very  full,  keep  the  left 
hand  at  work  with  a  gentle  sea-saw  motion  to  encourage 
rapidity  in  setting,  give  a  finishing  shake,  and  turn  it  into 
the  hot  dish  before  the  whole  of  the  mixture  has  quite  set. 

8.  The  omelette  will  roll  over  of  its  own  accord,  if  the 
sides  of  the  pan  be  sloped  as  I  have  described :  it  will  not 
require  folding. 

9.  Three  quarters  of  a  minute  is  ample  time  for  the 

16 


182  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

whole  operation,  if  the  pan  be  properly  hot  when  the  mix- 
ture is  poured  into  it. 

10.  Have  the  hot  dish  close  by  the  fire,  so  that  you  can 
turn  the  omelette  into  it  instanter.  A  little  melted  butter, 
with  some  chopped  parsley,  may,  with  advantage,  be  put 
into  the  dish. 

It  is  above  all  things  necessary  to  have  a  very  brisk  fire 
under  the  pan  while  the  omelette  is  being  cooked.  A 
brasier  filled  with  live  charcoal  is  the  best  kind  of  fire, 
and  the  fan  must  be  vigorously  plied  from  the  moment 
that  the  mixture  is  poured  into  the  pan. 

As  I  said  before,  omelettes  may  be  varied  in  many  ways. 
If  ''  aux  fines  herbes,"  curly  parsley  and  shallot  are  neces- 
sary ;  minced  marjoram  or  thyme,  garden-cress  (the  com- 
panion, I  mean,  of  mustard)  or  celery  leaves,  are  agreeable, 
and  many  are  fond  of  a  spoonful  of  finely  chopped  green 
chilli,  omitting  the  seeds  of  course. 

Chopped  ham,  chopped  tongue,  chopped  bacon,  and 
chopped  corned  beef  are  added  to  omelettes  with  good 
effect.  The  words  "  aic  jambo7i,''  "  an  lard,''  "  ati  langne  de 
hoeuf,"  ^'c,  specify  the  addition.  I  have  found  it  better  to 
fry  the  minced  ham,  &c.,  independently,  keeping  it  handy 
for  addition  to  the  omelette  during  the  rolling  over  stage, 
as  it  goes  into  the  dish. 

Cold  cooked  vegetables,  cut  up  and  tossed  awhile  in 
melted  butter  separately,  may  be  thus  added  with  success. 
I  recommend  pieces  of  the  flower  of  the  cauliflower,  arti- 
choke bottoms  cut  into  dice,  or  Jerusalem  artichokes  sliced, 
and  cut  up.  Peas,  the  grains  of  Indian  corn,  chopped 
French  beans,  or  the  seeds  of  the  bandecai  or  moringa  pod 
are  thus  very  pleasantly  treated.  In  the  case  of  an  "  omelette 
aux  legumes,'"  a  dust  of  grated  cheese  gives  a  pleasing 
finishing  touch  when  the  omelette  reposes  in  the  hot  dish. 

"  Omelette  aux  tomates :" — Cut  three  or  four  ripe  tomatoes 


I 


THE  SAVOURY  OMELETTE.  183 

into  quarters,  pick  out  the  seeds,  and  let  the  watery  juice 
run  off.  Cut  a  sweet  onion  into  the  thinnest  slices  possible. 
Melt  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  cast 
into  it  the  onion  slices  ;  let  them  cook  without  browning ; 
then  add  the  drained  tomato  quarters,  pepper  and  salt ; 
toss  the  sauce-pan  about  till  the  tomatoes  are  cooked 
which  will  be  in  about  ten  minutes.  Keep  the  mixture 
hot,  and  pour  it  over  the  surface  of  an  ordinary  omelette 
just  as  you  are  on  the  point  of  turning  it  out  of  the  frying- 
pan.  The  omelette  will  roll  over  of  its  own  accord  envelop- 
ing the  tomatoes  within  it  as  it  passes  into  the  dish. 

The  "  omelette  au  Parmesan'"  (or  any  mild  dry  cheese)  is  a 
specialite,  as  simple  as  it  is  delicious.  A  table-spoonful  of 
grated  and  finely  sifted  cheese  to  three  ordinary  eggs,  salt 
and  black  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  rich 
cream,  if  possible,  or  new  milk,  compose  the  mixture.  In- 
corporate the  ingredients,  and  proceed  as  recorded  in  the 
previous  directions.  Remember  that  it  should  be  served 
just  before  all  the  juicy  mixture  on  the  surface  quite  sets, 
so  that  there  may  be  an  exudation  of  creamy  moisture  in 
the  dish,  and  don't  forget  to  dust  over  the  surface  a  canopy 
of  gTated  cheese.  This  must  go  from  the  fire  to  the  plate,  as 
it  were.     Delay  in  serving  is  hard  on  any  or)ielette. 

And,  now,  we  come  to  the  Cure's  piece  de  resistance,  con- 
cerning which  I  spoke  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 
The  salient  feature  of  this  plat  was  the  combination  of 
tunny,  and  carp's  roes  by  which  it  was  flavoured.  Half  a 
slice  of  preserved  tunny,  and  the  soft  roes  of  two  herrings 
a  la  sardine  very  finely  minced  together,  with  a  little 
shallot,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  parsley,  should  be  tossed 
in  butter  awhile,  and  then  stirred  into  a  basin  containing 
six  well  mixed  eggs.  Cook  the  mixture  as  already 
explained,  and  turn  it  out,  when  ready,  into  a  hot  dish 
containing  a  little  melted  butter,  a  few  drops  of  lime  juice 
and  some  minced  shallot,  and  parsley.     If  you  cannot  get 


184  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

preserved  tunny,  a  piece  of  lax,  or  nicely  tinned  salmon 
will  be  found  an  agi-eeable  substitute,  and  cod's  roes  will 
form  a  pleasant  companion  thereto.  The  Cure  used  fresh 
tunny,  and  fresh  roes,  but  we  may  follow  his  recipe  with 
preserved  substitutes,  if  not  too  salt,  and  achieve  a  very 
fair  result. 

Kippered  seer-fish,  made  at  home,  with  Madras  fish-roe 
well  soaked,  ought  to  make  a  capital  omelette  of  this  kind. 
The  seer-fish  should  be  split,  washed,  and  dried  with  a 
cloth  ;  salt,  sugar,  and  lime-juice  being  well  rubbed  in 
immediately  ;  the  next  day  the  rubbing  must  be  repeated, 
and  the  fish  ai^tificially  smoked  by  being  hung  over  a  fire 
constantly  replenished  with  damp  straw,  &c.  After  this, 
it  should  be  hung  in  the  cook-room  over  the  fire,  and  it 
will  be  ready  for  the  table  the  third  evening.  If  you  can 
get  fresh  roe  so  much  the  better  ;  if  not,  Madras  preserved 
roe,  well  soaked  and  boiled  till  tender,  will  be  found  an 
excellent  substitute. 

Omelettes  may  be  cooked  aux  fines  herbes,  served  upon  a 
bed  of  tomato  puree,  and  dusted  over  with  grated  cheese. 
They  may  also  be  laid  upon  a  puree  of  gi-een  peas,  or  of 
spinach.  They  may  be  improved  with  minced  game,  and 
be  associated  effectively  with  mince  of  any  kind.  Chop- 
ped mushrooms  or  truffles  (previously  cooked,  minced,  and 
tossed  in  butter)  are,  of  course,  very  delicious  additions  to 
them ;  and  oysters  may  be  introduced  in  the  same  way. 
Savoury  omelettes  are  sent  up  with  rich  Espagiiole,  Peri- 
gueux,  and  Bechamel  sauces,  and  may  contain  some  finely 
minced  kidney  stewed  in  champagne.  Almost  all  fish, 
prawns,  lobster,  &c.,  go  well  with  them,  and  whether 
simple  or  elaborate,  plain  or  rich,  an  omelette  rarely  fails, 
— if  properly  made, — to  win  appreciation,  and  be  thank- 
fully accounted  for. 


i 


— ^ — 
0/7  Luncheons. 

^UNCHEON  is  a  meal  so  popular  amongst  Britons 

both   at  Home   and   abroad,    that   the    humblest 

treatise  on  cooking  would  be  incomplete  without  a 
chapter  specially  dedicated  to  it.  There  are  luncheons 
large,  and  luncheons  small.  The  former  elaborate,  very 
pleasant,  and  sociable,  yet  alas  !  a  little  too  alluring,  and 
fatal  in  their  eifects  upon  the  appetite  for  the  rest  of  the 
day.  The  latter  more  enjoyable  perhaps  than  their  more 
ostentatious  connections,  for  they  are  reserved  for  a  few 
intimate  friends,  but  affording  just  as  much  temptation  to 
kill  dinner. 

At  Madras  we  reserve  our  luncheon  parties  for  the 
Sabbath,  when  the  unfair  sex  has  no  official  care  away 
from  home,  and  though  few  sit  down  to  dinner  on  that 
day  till  nearly  half  past  eight,  the  overwhelming  recollec- 
tions of  the  midday  feast  have  hardly  had  time  to  pass 
away. 

A  far  better  meal  for  us  all, — a  very  near  relation  of 
luncheon, — is  the  dejeuner  a  la  fourchette  of  our  French 
friends.  Brillat  Savarin's  luncheon  party,  if  yoTi  remem- 
ber, assembled  "  at  ten — military  punctuality."  At  eleven 
o'clock  we  might  bid  our  guests  sit  down,  I  think,  without 
misgiving,  and  though  we  might  invite  them  to  breakfast, 
we  could  really  give  them  a  luncheon.     I  attended  a  party 


186  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

of  tliis  kind,  not  long  ago,  the  complete  success  of  which 
has  encouraged  me  to  advocate  its  adoption  in  supersession 
of  luncheons  at  2  p.m.  The  Frenchman  takes  his  cafe  au 
lait,  with  a  roll,  as  we  take  our  chota  hazri,  which  slight 
refection  carries  him  satisfactorily  till  eleven,  or  even 
twelve  o'clock ;  the  dejeuner  a  la  fourchette  is  then  a  sub- 
stantial meal.  Cannot  we,  when  there  are  no  distracting 
office  hours  to  think  of,  do  likewise  ?  A  breakfast  party 
ends  about  the  hour  that  luncheons  begin.  Both  hosts  and 
guests  have,  therefore,  ample  time  to  recover  their  appe- 
tites, and  to  indulge  in  a  quiet  afternoon's  rest,  before  the 
evening  drive,  and  dinner. 

A  pleasant  luncheon  or  breakfast  party  should  possess 
the  following  characteristics  : — a  judiciously  selected  list 
of  guests,  a  pi^ettily  arranged  table,  a  light  yet  artistic 
menu,  with  cups  of  claret,  sauterne,  hock,  or  chablis,  iced 
ad  libitum,  and  in  no  way  spoilt  by  sugar.  Liqueurs  may 
be  handed  round  to  finish  with,  and  the  best  coffee  you 
can  make  should  follow.  In  composing  your  menu,  you 
should  avoid  adhering  in  any  way  to  the  order  and  style 
of  a  dinner.  Thus,  you  must  not  give  any  soup  at  all,  but 
lead  off  with  oysters  in  their  shells  accompanied  by  brown 
bread  and  butter  cut  thin,  limes  cut  into  quarters,  and 
vinegars  and  peppers  of  kinds. 

An  old  standing  dish  to  commence  a  luncheon  party 
used  to  be  mulligatunny.  If  properly  made,  this  soup  is 
a  meal  in  itself  :  there  are  so  many  condiments,  spices, 
and  highly  flavoui^ed  elements  in  its  composition, — not  to 
mention  the  concomitant  ladleful  of  rice  which  custom 
decrees, — that  he  who  partakes  of  it  finds  the  delicate 
power  of  his  palate  vitiated,  as  far  as  the  appreciation  of 
any  dainty  plat  that  may  follow  is  concerned,  whilst  the 
edge  of  his  appetite  is  left  unto  him  sorely  blunted.  So  I 
say,  reserve  mulligatunny  for  your  luncheon  at  home  when 
alone,  enjoy  it  thoroughly,  rice  and  all,  and — nothing  more. 


A 


ON  LUNCHEONS.  187 


Having  discussed  your  oysters,  some  half  dozen  dishes 
or  so  may  follow,  carefully  contrasted  one  with  another, 
and  by  no  means  dinner-like  in  their  order  thus  : — 

An  antipasto  of  oysters,  or  olives  aux  michois. 

Fish  fricaseed  with  cucumbers,  orlys,  or  a  mayonnaise. 

Fillets  of  beef  piques  with  horse  radish  sauce  or  creme 

d'anchois,  garnished  with  potato  chips, 

or  a  dish  of  cotelettes  a  J  a  Be  for  me,  a  la  sonhise,  ^'c. 

Maccaroni  a  Vltalienne,  or  au  jamhon. 

Cold  galantine  of  hen  turkey,  or  capon,  delicately  sliced, 

and  handed  round,  with  a  salad. 

A  Ceylon  prawn  curry  swimming  in  creamy  gravy,  with 

pieces  of  vegetable  marrow  associated  with  it. 

A  chaud-froid  of  snipes. 
Fruits  in  cream ;  liqueur. 

This  menu  is  obviously  susceptible  of  the  pruning  knife. 
At  least  one  of  the  dishes  could  easily  be  cut  out,  and 
cheese  with  "  green  butter,"  and  hors  d'ceuvres  again,  might 
follow  the  sweet  dish. 

A  really  carefully  executed  mayonnaise  is  a  grand  lun- 
cheon dish,  and  a  cauliflower,  or  any  first  class  vegetable, 
au  gratin  is  invariably  acceptable.  For  a  small  luncheon 
party,  after  the  oysters  I  would  give  a  dish  of  fish, 
followed  by  a  simple  entree  from  class  I,  a  cauliflower  aii 
gratin,  the  galantine,  a  mayonnaise,  a  sweet,  cheese,  and 
hors  d'ceuvres.  In  fact,  if  you  disabuse  your  mind  of  dinner 
altogether,  and  compose  a  little  menu  of  mixed  dishes,  in- 
troducing some  slices  of  cold  dressed  meat  about  the  mid- 
dle thereof,  you  cannot  go  far  wrong.  Spiced  pressed  beef, 
or  corned  hump,  lamb  and  mint  sauce,  pigeon  pie  or  game 
pie,  or  the  galantine  aforesaid,  are  the  sort  of  dishes  from 
which  you  can  select  your  central  effect.     It  not  giving  a 


188  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

mayonnaise,  a  salad  ought  certainly  to  accompany  the  coki 
meat,  and  potatoes  artistically  dressed  may  go  round. 

Canapes  form  a  delicious  luncheon  dish,  void  : — cut  some 
slices  of  bread  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  two  inches 
long  if  heart-shaped,  two  inches  in  diameter  if  round,  and 
two  inches  square  if  rectangular.  Fry  these  a  pale  golden 
colour  in  butter,  and  set  them  on  a  dish  to  get  cold.  To 
complete  the  canape,  first  spread  a  layer  of  "  green  butter" 
over  each  piece  of  fried  bread,  upon  that  place  a  layer  of 
prawn  or  lobster  meat  pounded  with  butter,  and  slightly 
seasoned  with  Nepaul  pepper ;  smooth  this  with  a  dessert- 
knife,  place  a  leaf  of  lettuce  (cut  from  the  golden  heart) 
upon  the  top  of  the  prawn  meat,  and  a  piece  of  beetroot 
shaped  with  your  cutter.  Over  each  canape  when  thus 
prepared,  and  ])laced  in  the  dish  for  serving,  pour  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  rich,  thickly  worked,  mayonnaise  sauce,  iced. 
A  little  chopped  olive,  or  chopped  capers,  or  the  two  mixed, 
may  be  judiciously  sprinkled  over  each  cap  of  mayonnaise 
dressing.     The  dish  should  stand  on  ice  before  serving. 

Instead  of  prawn  meat,  you  can  use  cold  chicken,  finely 
sliced  or  pounded,  an  atom  of  the  divine  truffle  might  then 
be  added  to  each  canape,  and  the  thinnest  slice  of  tongue 
might  cover  it.'  Instead  of  lettuce,  a  few  sprigs  of  the 
flower  or  cold  cauliflower  can  be  introduced,  or  any  cold 
vegetable  of  a  delicate  kind,  asparagus  points  to  wit. 

Fish  may  be  used  in  this  fashion  : — caviare,  cod's  roe, 
lobster,  herring  a  la  sardine,  sardines,  lax,  preserved  tunny, 
and  anchovies.  Fancy  some  neatly  picked  fillets  of  the 
last  named  fish,  w^iped  free  from  oil,  and  the  skin  and 
bones  removed,  reposing  on  the  green  butter  ;  over  them 
a  goodly  sprinkling  of  sliced  olives,  then  the  lettuce  leaf, 
&c.,  as  previously  described — "  say,  dost  thou  like  the 
picture  ?" 

lu  houses  ^vhere  the  cook  can  really  master  an  omelette 


ON  LUNCHEONS.  189 


properly,  one  with  Parmesan  laid  upon  a  fricassee  of  cauli- 
flower flowers,  or  upon  a  'puree  de  topinamhourSy  or  com- 
posed aux  points  cVasperges,  aux  tomates,  or  aux  truffes,  may 
safely  form  an  item  of  the  choicest  luncheon  bill  of  fare. 

Here  is  a  pretty  little  recipe  for  a  Jilet  de  hoeuf  cl 
Vltalienne  which,  to  my  mind,  is  worthy  of  attention,  and 
well  adapted  for  a  mid-day  festival.  Take  a  tender  fillet 
of  beef  (the  undercut  of  the  sirloin  if  possible)  preserve  it 
whole  after  trimming  it  into  shape  ;  make  an  incision  in 
it  lengthways,  and  insert  therein  a  long  strip  of  bacon, 
fat  and  lean  in  equal  parts,  previously  rolled  in  a  fines 
herbes  mince  composed  of  a  table-spoonful  each  of  finely 
chopped  mushroom,  and  parsley,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
minced  shallot,  and  some  pepper  :  tie  up  the  fillet  now, 
carefully,  with  tape.  Take  a  good  slice  of  bacon,  mince 
it  very  small  with  thyme,  marjoram,  lime  peel,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  half  a  sweet  onion  and  a  carrot,  shake  this  mix- 
ture in  a  little  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  and  when 
it  melts,  place  the  fillet  upon  it,  and  turn  it  gently  till  it 
browns  nicely.  N'ow,  pour  in  a  pint  of  tomato  puree 
diluted  with  beef  gravy  to  the  consistency  of  ordinary  pea- 
soup  :  simmer  your  fillet  in  this  till  it  is  done,  it  ought  to 
be  kept  at  least  a  couple  of  hours  at  a  gentle  heat  :  when 
ready  to  serve,  strain  off  the  sauce,  place  the  fillet  upon 
a  very  hot  dish,  remove  the  tape,  garnish  with  glazed 
onions,  haricots  verts,  Brussels  sprouts,  or  any  nice  vegeta- 
ble, and  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  it.  Have  ready 
some  hot  boiled,  and  drained  maccaroni  in  a  sauce-pan, 
empty  all  the  sauce  that  remains  amongst  the  maccaroni, 
shake  into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  finely  grated  cheese,  toss 
the  whole  over  the  fire  for  a  minute,  and  dish  it  separately 
in  a  very  hot  dish.     Serve  the  two  together  immediately. 

Maccaroni,  in  the  usual  Italian  fashion,  is  infinitely 
superior  to  our  perpetual  method  of  serving  it.  It  makes 
an  excellent  luncheon  dish.     Boil  the  maccaroni  in  boiling 


190  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

water  in  a  sauce-pan  (which  may  be  rubbed  with  a  clove 
of  garlic)  until  it  is  tender ;  the  moment  it  is  tender,  stop 
the  boiling  by  adding  a  cup  of  cold  water,  if  not,  it  will  be 
sodden.  Drain  it  carefully,  as  you  do  rice,  and  let  it  re- 
main in  the  hot  sauce-pan.  Now,  stir  into  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  best  fresh,  or  preserved  butter  (the  new 
Denmark  brand  is  quite  first-rate)  and  as  you  work  this 
about  over  the  fire,  an  assistant  should  add  by  degrees  a 
breakfast-cupful  of  fresh  tomato  pulp,  a  little  salt  and 
black  pepper,  and  lastly,  a  heaped  up  table-spoonful  of 
either  grated  Parmesan  from  the  bottle,  or  any  mild 
thoroughly  powdered  dry  cheese :  serve  steaming  hot 
without  delay.  The  cheese  should  form  long  threads  when 
lifted  from  the  di.sh  with  the  maccaroni. 

If  you  have  any  stock  or  consomme  to  spare,  you  can 
improve  this  dish  by  simmering  the  maccaroni  therein 
after  the  draining  stage.  When  the  stock  has  been 
absorbed,  add  the  tomato,  &c. 

I  could,  of  course,  go  on  suggesting  dishes,  and  describ- 
ing them  ad  infinitum^ — for  luncheons  are  little  banquets 
which  afford  enthusiastic  cooks  a  pleasant  field  for  the 
exercise  of  their  inventive  faculties.  I  will,  however, 
conclude  my  chat  about  luncheon  parties  with  a  receipt 
for  a  mayonnaise  sauce  which  has  been  communicated  to 
me  by  the  artist  W.  H.  H.  :— 

Put  the  yolks  of  three  large,  or  four  ordinary  Indian 
eggs,  (raw)  in  a  flat  joint  dish  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  the  juice  of  two  limes,  and  beat  them  well :  tip  the 
dish  on  end  at  an  angle  of  about  35  ° ,  by  slipping  a  thick 
book  under  the  rim  at  one  end.  Open  afresh  bottle  of 
salad  oil,  and  get  an  assistant  to  let  the  oil  fall,  in  rapidly 
succeeding  drops,  upon  the  centre  of  the  dish,  whilst  you 
continue  beating  the  egg  mixture  upwards  to  make  it  pass 
under  the  stream  of  dinpping  oil.     Half  a  pint  of  salad  oil 


ON  LUNCHEONS.  191 


I 


may  be  thus  expended,  and  you  will,  by  that  time,  have  a 
sauce  as  thick  as  treacle,  and  of  a  golden  yellow  tint. 
Arrange  your  mayonnaise  in  its  dish  (W.  H.  H.  recommends 
the  juicy  slices  of  a  really  well  flavoured  cold  leg  of  mutton) 
shake  a  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar  over  it,  with  a  dust 
of  black  pepper :  arrange  some  well  dried  lettuce  leaves, 
trimmed  with  a  silver  dessert  knife,  over  the  mayonnaise ; 
garnish  as  you  like,  with  broken  aspic  jelly,  gherkins, 
turned  olives,  capers,  fillets  of  anchovy,  balls  of  green  or 
yellow  butter,  plain  hard-boiled  yolks  of  egg  whole,  &c., 
ice  the  sauce,  and  pour  it  over  all.  W.  H.  H.  suggests 
that  "  grace"  should  follow.     He  is  right. 

A  few  words  must  now  be  said  regarding  miscellaneous 
luncheons  : — the  office  snacklet,  the  lunch  in  the  train,  or 
alfresco  out  shooting,  the  "  tiffin"  at  home,  a  lady's  morceau, 
and  the  mid-day  meal  of  the  convalescent. 

Place  aux  dames.  This  is  the  time  when  a  lady  may 
indulge  in  mulligatunny,  or  her  favorite  curry,  with  its 
chutneys,  and  relishes  of  which  I  treat  later  on. 

A  chicken  neatly  cut  up  as  for  a  curry,  then  dipped  in 
bread-crumbs,  fried  a  golden  brown,  and  served  with  mac- 
caroni,  and  tomato,  or  with  good  bread-sauce  and  fried 
parsley. 

Perdrix  att  chou,  or  two  partridges,  boiled,  and  smothered 
in  onions  as  rabbits  are  cooked  in  England. 

The  undercut  of  the  saddle,  cut  out  entire,  grilled  over 
a  brisk  fire,  and  sent  up  with  a  potato  duchesse  :  or  a  juicy 
neck  chop  similarly  served,  with  a  pat  of  maitre  d'hotel 
butter  melting  over  either  of  them. 

Braise  a  neck  of  mutton,  or  a  breast,  in  gravy,  with 
vegetables  and  some  chopped  bacon :  slip  a  slice  of  bacon 
under  the  flap  of  either,  and  tie  it  in  shape  before  you 
commence  operations  :  when  almost  done,  lift  the  little 
joint  up  ;  strain  off  the  gravy,  skim  it,  and  make  a  nice 


192  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS, 

sauce  with  it  such  as  piquante,  poivrade,  or  Italienne.  Put 
tlie  joint  in  the  oven  after  bread-crumbing  it,  to  brown 
and  finish  cooking  ;  when  ready,  dish  it  surrounded  by 
boiled  maccaroni  over  which  the  sauce  should  be  poured  at 
the  last  minute.  Tomato  pulp  may  be  used  for  this  pur- 
pose with  marked  effect,  and  some  glazed  turnips  or  carrots 
may  garnish  the  dish,  in  which  case  the  sauce  should  be 
served  separately  in  a  boat. 

A  nicely  roasted  snipe,  or  pigeon  harde,  with  potato 
chips. 

A  single  canape  of  prawn,  or  a  little  patty  of  puff-pastry 
filled  with  any  tasty  mixture. 

A  savoury  omelette,  spinach  on  toast  with  "  buttered- 
egg,''  or  served  with  short-bread  biscuits. 

A  little  plate  of  peas,  tossed  in  butter  with  dice  of  fried 
ham  or  bacon. 

Coquilles  of  fish  en  rechaufe,  or  of  any  delicate  vegetable. 

Indian  com,  boiled,  stripped  with  a  fork  from  the  cob, 
tossed  in  melted  butter,  peppered,  and  salted,  is  generally 
liked  ;  see  that  the  cob  is  quite  a  young  one. 

A  cheese  fondue  en  caisse. 

From  these  dishes  the  luncheon  of  a  lady  or  an  invalid 
ought  to  be  easily  selected. 

Savoury  toasts  of  all  kinds,  from  the  homely  Welsh 
rarebit  upwards,  are  welcome  on  the  luncheon  table.  I 
treat  of  them,  you  will  find,  in  exienso  in  a  separate 
chapter. 

The  office  snacklet  is,  as  a  rule,  a  sandwich  followed 
by  a  slice  of  cake.  The  former  is  susceptible  of  infinite 
variety  :  here  are  a  few  good  ones  : — 

Spread  the  bread  with  green  or  any  fancy  butter,  and 
fill  the  sandwich  with  chopped  sardines,  and  some  bits  of 


ON  LUNCHEONS.  193 


pickle  here  and  there  ;  or  with  mixed  chicken  and  tongue, 
a  lettuce  leaf  and  some  mayonnaise  sauce. 

Any  potted  meat  worked  up  with  butter,  pepper,  a  touch 
of  mustard,  and  a  little  chutney. 

Ham  and  beef  sandwiches  should  make  your  nose  tingle 
with  mustard  :  be  easy  with  the  butter  if  you  can  dot  in 
some  nice  pieces  of  fat. 

Pound  a  slice  of  cheese  well,  with  a  little  fresh  butter,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little  black  pepper,  and 
salt,  add  an  anchovy,  well  wiped  free  from  oil,  and  passed 
through  the  sieve  with  a  little  butter  if  too  thick,  mix 
thoroughly,  give  it  a  dust  of  Nepaul  pepper,  spread  it  on 
your  bread,  and  complete  the  sandwich.  This  is  for  one 
large,  or  two  small  ones  remember,  so  cut  your  cheese 
accordingly. 

Hard-boiled  eggs  work  up  well  for  sandwiches,  and 
may  be  either  used  plainly  pounded  with  butter  with  a 
seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  or  added  to  other  ingredients 
like  chopped  tongue,  ham,  or  corned  beef. 

Fillets  of  anchovy  with  slices  of  olive,  embedded  in 
pounded  hard-boiled  egg  and  butter,  and  lightly  dusted 
with  Xepaul  pepper,  compose  a  very  eatable  sandwich. 

I  am  especially  fond  of  a  lunch-let  composed  of  one 
home-made  roll,  a  small  piece  of  Gruyere,  and  two  ripe 
plantains,  but  the  taste  of  eating  cheese  with  fruit  is,  I 
fear,  un-English. 

The  traveller's  luncheon  basket,  and  that  of  the  sports- 
man are  analogous.  A  friend  of  mine  with  whom  I  used 
to  walk  the  paddy  fields,  adopted  the  plan  of  taking  out 
a  digester  pot,  previously  filled  with  stewed  steak  and 
oysters,  or  some  equally  toothsome  stew.  This  he  trusted 
to  his  syce,  who  lit  a  fire  somewhere  or  other,  in  the 
marvellous  way  the  natives   of  this  country  do,   and,  as 

17 


194  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

sare  as  there  are  fish  in  the  sea,  had  the  contents  of  the 
pot  steaming  hot,  at  the  exact  spot,  and  at  the  veiy 
moment  we  required  it.  He  was  a  bow-legged  veteran, 
this  sjce,  and  a  most  trusty  varlet.  I  almost  think 
though,  that  our  shooting  became  a  little  erratic  after  our 
stew,  which  was  bountiful  in  quantity,  rich  in  quality, 
and  provocative  of  beer,  of  whisky  and  water,  or  brandy 
and  soda,  according  to  oui'  supply  thereof. 

A  good  cold  lunch  is  the  best  for  the  open  air,  when 
work  must  follow.  When  I  was  going  through  the  course 
of  Garrison  instruction,  and  accustomed  to  long  days  out 
surveying,  I  was  partial  to  a  qalantlne  made  of  a  small 
fowl,  boned  and  rolled,  with  a  block  of  tongue  and  some 
forcemeat  introduced  in  the  centre  of  it.  A  home-made 
brawn  of  tongue,  a  part  of  an  ox  head,  and  sheep's  trotters, 
well  seasoned,  and  slightly  spiced,  was  another  specialite. 

A  nice  piece  of  the  brisket  of  beef  salted  and  spiced, 
boiled,  placed  under  a  weight,  and  then  trimmed  into  a 
neat  shape  (the  trimmings  come  in  for  sandwiches,  potted- 
meat,  or  "  bubble  and  squeak")  is  a  very  handy  thing  for 
the  tiffin  basket ;  and  a  much  respected  patron  of  mine 
recommends  for  travelling,  a  really  good  cold  plum  pudding 
in  which  a  glass  of  brandy  has  been  included. 

Cake  is  acceptable  at  every  kind  of  luncheon ;  in  fact, 
cakes  were  invented  for  that  meal,  for  5  o'clock  tea, 
weddings,  and  for  school-boys  only. 


oxar^^iE^GTEi^    :^^:hl. 


I 


Fritters. 


^p~^  AILURE  in  the  accomplishment  of  the  many  excel- 
^JliS^  lent  dishes  which  come  nnder  the  head  of  "  fritters" 
may  be  fairly  attributed  to  three  things  :  the  first, 
ignorance  in  making  the  batter ;  the  second,  a  wrongly 
shaped  utensil ;  and  the  third,  an  insufficient  use  of  the 
frying  medium.  If  you  once  master  these  cardinal  points, 
and  can  drum  them  into  the  head  of  your  Ramasamy,  you 
will  have  at  your  command  a  tasty  and,  indeed,  artistic 
method  of  cookery  upon  which  you  can  always  rely  with 
confidence.  The  charm  of  fritter  cooking  is  its  simplicity. 
The  mixing  of  a  good  batter  merely  depends  upon  the 
accurate  following  of  the  recipe  before  you,  whilst  the 
culinary  operation  itself  presents  no  difficulty  whatever, 
provided  a  liberal  supply  of  fat  be  given  out,  and  the 
vessel  used  be  a  proper  one.  The  beginner,  as  a  rule, 
overcomes  this  part  of  his  education  after  a  few  trials,  and 
thenceforward  has  no  apprehension  concerning  success. 

Tasty  fritters,  sweet,  as  well  as  savoury,  can  be  made 
with  vegetables,  and  fruit ;  fish,  both  fresh,  and  cooked  ; 
remains  of  cold  meats,  pounded  cheese,  and  lastly,  by 
batter,  pure,  and  unassisted,  in  the  form  of "  beignets 
souffles,''  ^"c. 

As  the  main  point  in  this  kind  of  frying  consists  in 
providing  a   bath   of    fat   for   the    thing-to-be-cooked,  it 


196  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

is  essential  that  we  should  choose  a  deep,  rather  than  a 
broad  and  shallow  vessel,  for  the  operation.  The  ordinary 
frying-pan  sold  at  hard-ware  shops  is  of  no  use  what- 
ever for  this  branch  of  the  cook's  work.  The  pan  you 
want  should  look  like  a  stew-pan  with  double  handles,  and 
its  sides  cut  down  half-way  ;  its  diameter  need  not  exceed 
eight  or  nine  inches.  It  may  be  as  heavy  as  you  like,  for 
it  must,  of  necessity,  be  kept  steady  over  the  fire  when  in 
use.  A  handle  like  that  of  an  o»/eZ(?^^e-pan  is  therefore 
unnecessary,  for  you  never  require  to  shake  a/nVz^re-pan. 

Opinions  differ  as  to  the  best  frying  medium.  The  great 
Careme  advocated  the  use  of  the  fat  skimmed  from  the 
surface  of  the  pot-au-feu  after  having  been  carefully 
strained  through  muslin.  Clarified  suet,  for  which  I  give 
directions  in  ray  chapter  on  pastry,  is  favorably  regarded 
by  GoufFe.  Butter  is  hardly  to  be  recommended  for  this 
kind  of  frying  as  it  heats  very  quickly  and  is  apt  to  burn. 
Oil  is,  of  coui'se,  an  excellent  medium,  but  it  is  difficult  to 
get  good  out  in  India,  and  too  expensive.  Lard  (imported) 
may  be  used,  but  I  do  not  like  it  even  in  England  for  it 
always  adheres  to  a  certain  extent  to  the  thing  fried. 
Good  Indian  ghee  made  at  home,  or  procured  fresh  and 
then  clarified  as  recommended  for  suet,  is  by  no  means  to 
be  despised  j  that  sold  on  the  Neilgherries  is,  as  a  rule, 
excellent. 

Besides  your  pan,  for  delicate  fritter  work  there  is 
nothing  more  useful  than  the  wire  frying-basket, — a  cheap 
thing  enough,  and  not  hard  to  make.  Pi^ovided  with  this 
utensil,  which  may  be  described  as  an  open-ioorlc,  draining- 
pan,  slightly  smaller  in  diameter  than  the  y>iV?e re-pan,  the 
whole  process  of  working  may  be  thus  described  : — 

1. — Make  your  batter,  to  begin  with,  according  to  one 
of  the  receipts  hereafter  given,  and  place  it  in  its  bowl  on 
one  side,  covered  up  from  flies,  dust,  &c. 


FRITTERS.  197 


2. — Prepare  your  fish,  meat,  vegetable,  frnit,  or  what- 
ever you  are  going  to  cook,  and  arrange  the  pieces  on  a  flat 
dish,  on  a  table  handy,  with  the  bowl  of  batter  next  to  it. 

3. — Take  your  /niJ?tre-pan,  see  that  it  is  thoroughly 
clean,  and  dry. 

4. — Set  it  on  the  griddle  rest,  over  a  good  bright  charcoal 
fire,  and  empty  the  fat,  or  whatever  you  use  as  a  frying 
medium,  into  it  bountifully. 

5. — When  melted,  the  fat  ought  to  be  quite  two  inches 
deep. 

6. — Determine  if  the  fat  be  hot  enough  by  throwing  a 
sippet  of  bread  into  it :  if  the  sippet  fizzes,  and  produces 
large  air  bubbles,  the  fritter  bath  is  ready. 

7. — Now,  dip  your  morsel-to-be-fried  into  the  batter, 
which  should  be  of  sufiicient  consistency  to  coat  it  nicely  ; 
plunge  the  frying-basket  into  the  fat,  and  slide  the  fritter 
into  it. 

8. — The  fritter  must  be  covered  by  the  fat,  not  partly  in, 
and  partly  out  of  it.     Fan  the  fire  now  vigorously. 

9. — Let  it  frizzle,  and  when  of  a  rich  golden  tint,  lift  up 
the  basket,  and  hold  it  a  moment  or  two  over  the  pan  so 
that  its  contents  may  drain. 

10. — Lay  each  fritter,  as  you  take  it  from  the  basket,  on 
a  dry  clean  cloth,  or  on  a  sheet  of  new  blotting  paper,  to 
complete  the  draining. 

11. — When  dry,  dish  it  in  a  very  hot  dish,  and,  if  a 
savoury  fritter,  give  it  a  dust  of  finely  powdered  salt ;  if  a 
sweet  one,  shake  a  canopy  of  powdered  loaf  sugar  over  it. 

12. — Fritters  can  be  fried  one  after  another.  Never  put 
in  more  than  the  pan  can  easily  hold  at  one  time. 

The  fat  should  now  be  poured  through  muslin  into  a 
clean  bowl :  it  will  harden,  and  be  fit  for  work  again,  until 
it  assumes  a  leaden  tint,  which  may  take  place  after  it  has 


198  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

been  used  two  or  three  times.  Fat  in  which /7s7^  has  once 
been  fried  must  be  reserved  afterwards  for  fish  only,  as  it 
acquires  a  fishy  taste. 

If  you  follow  these  rules  closely,  you  ought  never  to  fail 
to  turn  out  nice  fritters,  provided,  of  course,  that  your 
batter  be  properly  made.  I  cannot  too  strongly  impress 
upon  you  the  necessity  of  attention  to  this  part  of  the 
work  which  so  many  cooks  slur  over  carelessly.  I  have 
adopted  as  a  standard  batter  in  my  own  kitchen  one  re- 
commended by  the  "  G.  C,"  whose  advice  I  have  so  often 
quoted  in  these  pages.  Friends  who  have  tried  it  at  my 
recommendation  have  generally  commended  it.  You  must 
proceed  in  this  way  : — 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  cgfrs  with  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  brandy,  one  table-spoonful  of  the  best  salad  oil,  and 
four  or  five  table-spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Incorporate 
with  this  mixture  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  salt- 
.spoonfnl  of  salt.  The  flour  should  be  dry,  and  the  best 
imported.  Work  this  now,  with  care,  to  a  smooth  paste, 
and  continue  to  beat  it  for  at  least  ten  minutes.  If  the 
batter  appear  too  thick,  add  a  little  w^ater  until  its  consist- 
ency be  satisfactory,  i.e. : — it  should  cover  the  spoon 
when  lifted  out  of  it  with  a  coating  about  the  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick.  This  stage  having  been  reached,  take  the 
whites  of  the  three  eggs,  and  whip  them  to  a  stiff  froth  : 
stir  this  into  your  batter  at  the  time  of  using. 

This  recipe  may  be  reduced  for  a  small  dish  of  fritters 
as  follows  : — two  ordinary  eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of 
brandy,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  and  one  and  a  half  table-spoonful  of 
flour.     For  sweet  fritters,  use  sugar  instead  of  salt. 

Another  good  batter  is  made  thus  : — Beat  up  equal  parts 
of  salad  oil,  and  brandy, — say,  a  table-spoonful  of  each  ; 
add  the  yolk  of  au  egg^  and  incorporate  with  this,  sufficient 


FRITTERS.  199 


flonr  to  make  a  thick  paste,  which  you  thin  to  the  required 
consistency  by  the  addition  of  water,  reserving  the  whipped 
white  of  the  egg  to  finish  with. 

I  have  more  than  once  alluded  to  "  heignets^'  in  previous 
chapters,  and  receipts  for  several  will  be  found  amongst 
my  menus.  The  hramoushy*  is,  I  think,  the  prince  of  all 
savoury  fritters,  and  is  susceptible  of  being  composed  in 
many  delicious  ways.  The  oyster,  pounded  shell  fish, 
minced  fish  of  any  kind,  sweet-breads  (when  you  can  get 
them)  or  any  delicately  composed  mince  of  fowl,  or  of 
meat,  with  tongue  or  ham,  can  be  thus  turned  to  an  artistic 
account.  Whatever  your  salpicon,  or  minced  composition, 
may  be  made  of,  the  spccdalites  of  the  kramoushj  are  the 
little  jacket  of  fat  bacon  in  which  it  is  enveloped,  and  the 
batter  in  which  it  is  dipped.  The  bacon  should  be 
previously  cooked,  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  two  and  a 
half  inches  long,  and  one  and  a  half  deep  :  two  oysters, 
or  a  heaped  up  tea-spoonful  of  any  salpicoyi,  should  be  laid 
in  the  centre  of  each  :  the  bacon  must  then  be  folded  over 
it  very  neatly,  and  kept  ready  for  the  dipping  process, 
which  must  be  carried  out  cautiously.  The  frying  should 
be  conducted  as  already  described. 

If  you  wish  to  make  Jcramouskys  of  chicken,  turkey,  or 
game,  you  should  mince  the  meat  coarsely,  the  pieces  being 
cut  like  little  dice,  bind  the  mince  with  the  yolks  of  a 
couple  of  eggs  or  more,  according  to  the  quantity  of  the 
mince,  and  stir  into  it,  in  a  sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  a  little 
richly  made  veloute  ;  let  this  get  quite  cold,  and  firm,  then 
divide  it  into  little  portions  and  fill  your  bacon  slices. 
Minced  truffles,  and  mushrooms,  are,  of  course,  undeniable 
improvements  to  any  salpicon. 

*  Generally  written  '  Kromeskv,'  '  or  crojnesqni.'  I  have  adopted  a 
different  spellinj?  having  been  assured  by  a  friend  whose  authority  is 
unimpeachable  that  the  dish  is  of  Russian  origin,  and  its  name  "  Kra- 
mousky." 


200  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

A  fish  kramouskij  is  easily  accomplished  :  you  need  only 
mince  the  fish,  stir  into  it,  in  a  sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  well  made  white  sauce,  add  a  little  season- 
ing, with  the  yolk  of  an  e^g  when  off  the  fire,  and  set  it  to 
cool. 

In  like  manner,  tinned  lobster,  tinned  oysters,  and  any 
tinned  fish,  can  thus  be  successfully  treated.  In  using 
them,  however,  it  is  necessary  to  wash,  and  drain  them 
from  the  liquid  of  the  tin.  The  sauce  should  be  made 
very  carefully,  so  that  it  may  freshen  up  the  fish  as  much 
as  possible. 

An  oyster,  plainly  dipped  in  the  batter  I  have  given 
you,  and  fried  secundum  artern^  is  perhaps  as  dainty  a 
morsel  as  can  be  presented  to  the  jaded  appetite  of  an 
Anglo-Indian.  Drain  the  oysters  from  their  liquor  in  the 
tin,  wipe  them,  and  set  them,  en  marinade  all  the  day  in 
a  soup  plate,  with  the  juice  of  three  limes,  an  onion  sliced 
some  whole  peppers,  and  a  few  cloves  ;  turn  them  occasion- 
ally till  they  are  wanted  for  the  friture-^an.  Oyster 
fritters  thus  treated,  form  an  excellent  garnish,  and  may  be 
served  with  boiled  or  fried  fish,  or  a  dish  of  filets  de  hceuf. 

Here  is  a  super-excellent  idea  of  the  "  G.  C.'s"  : — Split 
each  oyster  open,  almost  as  wide,  comparatively  speaking, 
as  you  do  a  kidney,  and  insert  therein  a  little  of  the  fol- 
lowing composition  : — toss  on  the  fire  in  butter,  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  a  spoonful  of  rich  brown  sauce,  a  dessert- 
spoonful each  of  minced  mushroom,  shallot,  and  truffle  ; 
thicken  this  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  give  it  the  juice 
of  a  lime,  and  let  it  get  cold.  After  putting  a  small  allow- 
ance of  this  in  each  oyster,  shut  the  sides  together,  dip  it 
in  the  batter,  and  fry  immediately. 

I  have  already  indicated  the  vegetables  which  make 
good  fritters,  and  here  repeat  my  high  opinion  of  that 
method  of  treating  them, 


FI^ITTERS.  201 


Try  this  : — -pound  a  dish  of  boiled  prawns  in  a  mortar 
Avith  some  butter,  and  weak  gravy  ;  when  quite  worked  to 
a  -puree,  incorporate  it  loith  the  hatter,  and  drop  the  mixture 
by  dessert-spoonfuls  at  a  time,  into  your  friture-^sin  :  let 
the  fritters  cook  till  they  turn  a  rich  golden  colour,  and 
are  as  crisp  as  biscuits,  then  drain,  and  serve  them  on  a 
napkin,  with  crisply  fried  parsley. 

If  you  omit  the  prawn  piiree,  and  simply  fry  spoonfuls 
of  the  plain  batter,  you  will  have  heignets,  or  (as  Rama- 
samy  hath  it)  "  pan-cake  fritters,"  which  may  be  either 
sent  up  as  a  savoury  entremets,  to  be  eaten  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  or  as  a  sweet  one,  when  they  must  be 
dusted  over  with  powdered  sugar,  and  sprinkled  with  lime 
juice.  In  the  latter  case,  a  spoonful  of  brandy  or  liqueur 
shaken  over  the  fritters  improves  their  general  effect. 

All  fruit  fritters  can  be  cooked  in  the  batter  I  have  de- 
scribed. Peaches,  apricots,  pears,  and  apples  make  deli- 
cious fritters,  the  pine- apple  is  equally  amenable  to  the  fri- 
f wre-pan  ;  whilst  oranges  and  our  lowly  plantain  are  not  to 
be  despised.  For  the  four  former  fruits  we  must  look  to  the 
tin  ;  those  that  come  to  us  from  America  are  specially  to 
be  recommended.  Pine-apples,  when  in  season,  can  be 
procured  in  the  market ;  if  out  of  season,  the  American 
tinned  slices  are  capital  substitutes.  Oranges  can  be  used 
in  their  season,  and  the  plantain  is  a  perennial  friend. 
Whatever  fruit  be  chosen,  let  it  be  set  en  marinade  in 
liqueur,  brandy,  or  rum.  Delicate  fruits  require  liqueur, 
the  pine-apple  is  better  associated  with  rum,  the  plantain 
and  orange  are  thankful  for  either  rum  or  brandy.  A 
wineglass  is  enough.  The  fruit,  sliced,  and  prepared  for 
the  "  heignet,'"  should  be  laid  in  a  soup-plate,  dusted  over 
with  sugar,  and  sprinkled  with  the  brandy,  or  liqueur. 
After  an  hour,  the  slices  should  be  turned  over,  basted 
again,  and  this  should  be  repeated  during  the  afternoon, 
until    they   are    required    by  the  cook,     The  brandy  or 


202  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

liqueur  you  use  for  the  marinade  should  be  mixed  in  the 
batter.  Orange  quarters  and  slices  of  ripe  plantain  may 
be  used  raw,  but  the  slices  of  pine-apple  must  be  stewed 
till  tender. 

I  cannot  do  better  than  wind  up  this  chapter  with  a 
recipe  for  heignets  souffles  : — 

"  Put  about  a  pint  of  water  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  pinch 
of  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  sugar,  and  the  rasped  peel  of  three  lemons — when 
the  whole  boils,  throw  in  gradually  sufficient  flour  to  form 
a  thick  paste,  then  let  it  remain  ten  minutes,  and  work 
into  it,  off  the  fire,  two  eggs  complete,  and  the  yolks  only 
of  two  more,  the  whites  of  which  you  reserve  for  whisk- 
ing to  a  froth :  add  the  froth,  let  it  rest  awhile,  and  then 
proceed  to  fry  by  dropping  pieces  of  it  the  size  of  a  walnut 
into  boiling  fat.  The  paste  will  swell  in  the  process  of 
frying,  and  if  the  fat  be  sufficiently  heated  hollow 
balls  of  a  fine  golden  colour  will  be  produced.  Serve  them 
piled  upon  a  dish,  with  a  plentiful  dusting  of  powdered 
white  sugar."  (G.  C.) 

In  this  country  it  will  be  better  to  use  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  essence  than  the  rasped  peel  of  a  lime  ;  and  any 
essence,  such  as  vanilla,  ratafia,  almond,  &c.,  may  be  used 
as  a  change. 

If  you  omit  the  lemon  and  the  sugar,  and  stir  in  with 
the  flour  a  good  allowance  of  finely  grated  Parmesan,  you 
will  achieve  a  "  heignet  souffle  au  Parmesan/'  a  truly  tooth- 
some savoury  entremets ;  and  if  you  cook  them  plainly, 
without  cheese,  and  only  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt, 
you  will  have  a  beignet  which,  when  eaten  with  salt,  pepper, 
mustard,  and  fresh  butter,  forms  a  savoury  entremets  not 
to  be  despised. 


ok:j^:ftei^    z^siz^^i. 


Salads. 

tN  an  early  chapter  of  these  jottings,  I  observed  that 
amongst  the  accessories  of  an  artistic  dinner,  a  good 
salad,  though  not  entered  in  the  menu  perhaps,  was 
still  expected  to  be  present.  On  the  continent  we  find  the 
salad  handed  to  us,  as  a  matter  of  course,  with  the 
"  rot.''  "  Pullet  au  cresso7i, — salade'  is,  of  course,  a  familiar 
item  in  the  French  menu.  This  custom  is  being  fast 
adopted  in  England  by  those  who  are  quick  to  mark  that 
which  their  neighbours  do  well.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
whatever  that  this  method  of  dressing  raw  vegetables,  if 
correctly  done,  is  wholesome,  and  a  singularly  commend- 
able staple  of  diet  for  people  who  live  in  hot  climates. 
There  are  ailments  to  which  the  Englishman  seems  to  be 
especially  prone,  which  are  comparatively  unknown  by 
Spaniards  and  Italians  with  whom  raw  vegetables,  and  oil 
are  daily  food.  A  careful  study  then,  of  what  we  can  do 
in  India  in  this  branch  of  cookery,  is  worthy  of  every 
man's  attention. 

We  all  know  that  a  salad  demands  two  things  : — its 
vegetable  foundation,  and  its  dressing,  both  of  which  may 
be  a  good  deal  varied. 

First,  as  regards  the  foundation  of  a  salad.  This  may 
be  composed  of  cooked,  as  well  as  of  raw  materials  :  the 


204  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


vegetables  principally  employed  being,  lettuces  (cabbage, 
and  coss),  endive,  tomatoes,  onions,  cucumbers,  parsley, 
young  radishes,  garden-cress,  and  water-cress,  in  the  latter 
condition;  and  in  the  former,  beet-root,  French  beans, 
flageolets,  potatoes,  artichokes,  cauliflower,  turnip-tops, 
asparagus,  cabbage,  vegetable  marrow,  and  young  carrots. 
With  cold  cooked  country  vegetables,  I  have  made  capital 
salads  ;  young  brinjals,  the  mollay-keeray,  bandecai,  coun- 
try beans,  greens  of  sorts,  and  little  pumpkins  gathered 
very  3'oung,  are  all  worthy  of  treatment  in  this  way. 

Touching  salad-dressing  a  gi'eat  deal  might  be  written, 
for  concerning  its  composition  cookery  books  seem  to 
possess  "  a  thousand  several  tongues,"  and  every  tongue 
to  bring  in  "  a  several  tale."  Let  us  try  and  be  con- 
tented, however,  with  a  few  standard  ones,  remembering 
that  salads  may  be  clothed  in  simplicity,  as  well  as  in 
grandeur. 

True  co7inoisseHre,  I  think,  adhere,  as  a  rule,  to  the  very 
simplest :  that  is  to  say,  the  simplest  as  far  as  the  compo- 
nent parts,  and  the  process  of  mixing  them,  are  concerned. 
The  artist's  hand  and  eye,  and  some  little  experience  to 
boot  are,  of  course,  essential  to  acquire  that  nicety  of  judg- 
ment of  quantity  which  a  plain  dressing  demands.  It  is, 
therefore,  the  hardest  to  describe. 

Let  me  lead  off  with  one  general  law  for  every  salad,  of 
which  English  people  are,  collectively  speaking,  ignorant. 
It  is  this  : — 

Abstain  from  the  vinegar  bottle  as  much  as  possible. 
You  do  not  want  an  acid  dish  at  all.  Vinegar  is  merely 
added  to  lend  a  peculiar  flavour  to  the  composition,  and  to 
assist  it  with  an  almost  imperceptible  pungency.  That 
most  pernicious  advice  : — 

"  Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lncca  crown, 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town" 


SALADS.  205 


should  be  shunned  most  studiously.  The  correct  use  of 
vinegar  is,  therefore,  to  my  mind  the  feature  which  con- 
tains the  main  difficulty  in  mixing  a  salad. 

The  following  rules  for  plain  salad-dressing  may  be 
trusted  I  think  : — 

Pull  the  leaves  of  the  lettuce  from  the  stalk  with  your 
hand,  rejecting  all  that  are  bruised  and  discoloured,  turn 
those  at  all  muddy  into  a  basin,  wash  them  well,  and  drain 
them  thoroughly  on  a  sieve,  tossing  them  lightly  in  a  cloth 
afterwards  to  get  rid  of  every  drop  of  water.  Leaves  that 
are  quite  clean  ought  not  to  be  wetted  at  all.  When  dry, 
put  the  leaves  into  the  bowl,  and  work  them  about  with 
the  wooden  spoon  and  fork  whilst  an  assistant  sprinkles 
over  them  a  libation  of  the  finest  oil  you  can  buy.  As  soon 
as  every  leaf  is  thoroughly  anointed, — glittering  with  a 
coating  of  moisture  as  it  were, — shake  over  them  a  few 
drops  of  tarragon  vinegar,  and  dust  them  with  salt,  and  some 
coarse,  freshly  gTound  black  pepper.  The  spoon  and  fork 
must  be  kept  going  during  the  addition  of  the  vinegar 
drops,  and  also  whilst  ^he  pepper  and  salt  are  being  dusted 
into  the  bowl.  The  thing  to  avoid  is  a  sediment  of  dressing. 
The  leaves  lying  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  must,  in  that 
case,  become  sodden,  and  so  the  crispness  you  desire  to 
maintain  will  be  marred.  A  thorough  lubrication  is  all 
that  has  to  be  accomplished.  I  picked  this  up  several 
years  ago  from  a  French  waiter  at  Yerrey's  dining-rooms 
in  London :  it  was  surprising  how  much  oil  was  caught  up 
by  the  dry  crisp  leaves,  and  how  Utile  vinegar  was  put  in 
as  a  finishing  touch  by  this  accomplished  Garqon. 

Observe,  pray,  that  it  is  quite  out  of  the  question  to 
give  fixed  quantities  with  regard  to  the  mixing  of  this 
kind  of  salad.  The  quantity  of  oil,  and  of  the  other  in- 
gredients, must  obviously  depend  on  the  quantity  of  green 
stuff. 

18 


206  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


This  is  the  only  dressing  possible  in  the  ease  of  an  endive 
(chicoree)  salad  ;  for  which  it  is  essential  that  the  bowl  be 
rubbed  with  garlic. 

Very  finely  minced  onion,  curled  parsley,  and  garden- 
cress  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  lettuce  leaves  after  the 
oil  has  been  worked  into  them,  but  for  dinner  parties  per- 
haps the  "  violet"  had  better  be  omitted  (valuable  as  it 
is)  or  its  absence  supplied  by  a  drop  or  two  of  shallot 
vinegar. 

And  this  leads  me  to  aromatic  vinegars,  "  without 
which,"  to  use  the  outfitters  favourite  form  of  advertise- 
ment, *'  no  salad-maker's  equipment  can  be  considered 
complete"  : — 

1. — Tarragon  Vinegar, 

2. — Anchovy  Vinegar, 

3. — Shallot  Vinegar, 

4. — Elder  Vinegar, 

5. — Garlic  Vinegar. 

These  are  all  procurable  at  the  shops  of  the  leading 
preserved  provision  merchants  at  Madras,  but  the  salad 
artist  should  maJie  his  own  peculiar  vinegars,  and  use  them, 
according  to  judgment,  to  vary  the  too-often  repeated 
flavours  of  ordinary  compositions.  Here  are  a  few  sugges- 
tions : — 

"  Fines  herhes  vinegar"  : — To  half  a  pint  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  minced  garden-cress,  a 
table-spoonful  of  minced  marjoram,  a  clove  of  garlic,  two 
small  green  capsicums  shred,  and  one  minced  shallot. 
Or  : — To  the  same  vinegar,  add  the  finely-pared  rind  of 
three  limes,  a  dozen  cloves,  a  dozen  pepper  corns,  and  the 
same  green  herbs  and  onion. 

The  bruised  seed  of  garden-cress,  celery,  and  parsley,  in 
equal    portions, — say  a    tea-spoonful   of  each,  a  clove  of 


SALADS,  207 


garlic,  and  two  ordinary  capsicums  finely  minced,  make, 
when  added  to  half  a  pint  of  tarragon  vinegar,  an  invalu- 
able element  of  salad  dressing. 

In  speaking  of  capsicums,  I  only  allude  to  the  skin,  not 
to  the  pith  or  seeds. 

A  very  few  drops  of  the  strongly  flavoured  vinegars  I 
have  described  are,  of  course,  ample  to  "  animate  the 
bowl."  A  cook's  ingenuity  will  aid  him  in  concocting  other 
varieties  easily  enough.  When  made,  cork  your  bottle 
down  tightly,  seal  it  with  wax,  and  set  it  in  the  sun, — an 
operation  which  presents  but  little  difficulty  in  this  country. 
In  a  week  or  two,  you  may  strain  the  liquid,  and  take  it 
into  use. 

An  excellent  salad  is  that  made  by  slicing  raw  ripe 
tomatoes,  with  a  Bombay  onion.  The  dressing  given  should 
be  like  that  recommended  for  lettuce,  only  that,  your  al- 
lowance of  oil  must  be  abundant ;  and,  inasmuch  as  tomatoes 
are  sweet,  there  may  be  a  little  freer  use  of  the  vinegar 
cruet.  As  in  all  salads,  tarragon,  or  any  aromatic  vinegar, 
may  be  employed  advantageously  in  this  one,  and  minced 
fines  herhes  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  whole.  Strips  of 
green  capsicum  harmonize  most  pleasantly  with  a  tomato 
salad.  This  is  obviously  a  dish  for  the  sterner  sex,  and 
one  which  no  man  would  partake  of  just  before  a  ball,  on 
his  wedding  day,  or  at  all  during  the  halcyon  period  which 
generally  precedes  that  ceremony.  0  !  why  is  our  rose 
thus  thornily  encumbered  ?  Why  was  it  ordained  that 
man  should  never  eat  of  the  fragrant  bulb  without  remem- 
bering it  to  his  sorrow  ?  I  once  heard  an  amateur  cook  say 
that  the  forbidden  fruit  in  the  garden  of  Eden  must  have 
been  an  onion.  "  Hence,"  said  he,  "  the  curse  it  carries 
with  it,  and  hence  the  universal  dislike  with  which  it 
is  regarded  by  the  ladies."  But  this  man  was  a  free 
thinker. 


208  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

The  other  form  of  salad  dressing  is  closely  connected  with 
viayonnaise  sauce,  and  has  many  admirers.  With  some 
vegetable  ingredients  it  undoubtedly  works  better  than  its 
plainer  relative.  In  England,  however,  it  is  almost  always 
spoilt  by  being  overdosed  with  vinegar, — common,  acid 
stuff  without  any  flavouring, — and  in  nearly  every  cookery 
book  of  the  average  capacity,  you  are  told  to  mix  oil  and 
vinegar  in  equal  2'>arts,  which  I  have  already  denounced. 
An  old  recipe  called  "  Dr.  Kitchener's  salad  mixture" 
embodies  as  many  mistakes  as  could  well  be  made  in  a 
dressing  of  this  kind  : — "  two  table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  or 
melted  butter  (!)  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar." 
The  "  poet's  recipe"  already  alluded  to  is  equally  faulty. 
In  point  of  fact,  the  part  played  by  the  vinegar  in  these 
dressings  is  really  so  small  as  regards  measurement  that 
a  fixed  amount  can  scarcely  be  laid  down.  In  proportion 
to  the  oil,  one-si.rth  is  to  ray  mind  the  outside  allotment 
that  should  be  given.  This  is  a  good  every-day  salad 
mixture  : — 

Put  the  very-hard  boiled  yolks  of  two  eggs  into  a  slop 
basin,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  mustard,  a  scant 
salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
minced  shallot.  Bruise  these  with  a  wooden  or  silver 
spoon,  and  work  them  to  a  paste  with  a  little  salad  oil. 
Add  oil  by  degrees  till  your  paste  is  about  the  consistency  of 
batter,  then  toss  into  it  one  by  one  the  raiu  yollcs  of  three 
eggs,  continue  the  working,  and  add  oil,  till  you  have  a 
nice  rich  sauce  coating  the  spoon  pretty  thickly  :  you  can 
now  dole  out  a  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  or  other 
aromatic  vinegar,  and  mix  it  thoroughly  with  the  other 
ingredients  :  the  sauce  will  become  creamy  the  moment  it 
receives  the  ^-inegar.  Taste  your  sauce  by  dipping  a  leaf 
of  lettuce  into  a  spoonful  of  it,  and  finish  it  off,  as  regards 
further  addition  of  oil  or  vinegar,  according  to  discretion. 
The  eye,  and  the  palate  are  your  surest  guides  :    no  true 


SALADS.  209 


salad-maker  works  by  measure.  As  soon  as  jou  have  got 
a  creamy,  well-flavoured  sauce  to  suit  your  fancy,  strain 
it  through  the  little  block  tin  strainer  to  get  rid  of  every 
lump,  and  the  little  bits  of  onion.  This  should  be  done 
over  the  sauce-boat,  which  should  be  put  into  the  ice  box 
as  soon  as  it  is  filled. 

If  yon  want  a  thicJc  sauce  of  this  kind,  lightly  ^^<^  the  oil 
with  the  raw  eggs  adding  it  by  degrees,  and  the  mixture 
will  soon  be  stiff  enough,  especially  if  you  put  in  another 
raw  yolk. 

Use  French  mustard  (moutard  de  maille)  in  preference 
to  English.  Never  use  Worcester  sauce  on  any  account 
whatever. 

N.B. — In  all  rich  salad,  or  mayonnaise  dressings,  cream 
may  be  used  instead  of  oil,  or  be  added  to  a  made  sauce 
as  a  finishing  touch. 

I  recommend  very  strongly  that  the  salad,  nicely  dressed 
in  its  bowl,  and  the  icy-cold  sauce  in  its  boat,  should  b© 
preserved  separately,  and  handed  round  together.  If  you 
mix  a  salad  of  this  kind  before  dinner,  and  let  it  soak, 
it  deteriorates  considerably  before  the  time  comes  for 
its  service.  Cover  up  your  nicely  selected  well  dried 
lettuce  leaves,  &c.,  and  they  will  be  crisp,  if  handed  round 
with  their  sauce  following  them,  on  the  arrival  of  "  the 
roast."  This  advice  holds  good  with  mayonnaise.  The 
meat  or  fish  of  which  the  dish  may  be  composed  becomes 
sodden,  and  dead,  and  the  green  accompaniments  fall  off  in 
crispness  if  bathed  in  dressing.  Besides,  after  the  meal,  a 
mixed  mayonnaise  or  salad  is  wasted,  whereas  one  with 
which  the  sauce  was  separately  served  may  be  turned  to 
account.  You  have  in  the  former  case  only  to  pick  the 
meat  out  of  the  lettuce  leaves,  and  place  it  on  a  separate 
dish.  The  plain  salad  I  first  mentioned  must,  of  course, 
be  mixed  the  very  last  thing  before  dinner,  unless  you  can 


210  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

boldly  rise  from  the  table,  and  mix  it  yourself  at  the  exact 
time  that  it  is  wanted. 

A  salad  of  cold  cooked  vegetables  (salade  cuite)  can  be 
either  served  with  plain,  or  rich  dressing.  For  the  finest 
of  all  see  the  recipe  given  elsewhere  for  salade  Russe. 
Sliced  potatoes,  beetroot,  French  beans,  and  cucumber,  go 
well  together :  while  cauliflower  and  cabbage,  both  kinds 
of  artichokes,  and  asparagus  points,  are  admii^able  with  a 
plain  sauce. 

vSalade  ^a  la  ma  XANTE  is  a  combination  of  good  things; 
which  will  commend  itself  at  once  to  the  appreciative 
reader  : — Take  six  cold  boiled  or  tinned  fonds  d'arttchauts, 
fill  their  hollows  with  cold  boiled  or  tinned  poififes 
d'aspergeSf  cover  the  surface  with  cold  sliced  truffles  that 
have  been  stewed  in  champagne  or  Madeira,  and  smother 
each  di^esscd /o?/(Z  with  a  rich  mayonnaise  dressing  : — serve 
straight  from  the  ice-box.  This  should,  of  course,  be 
classed  as  an  entremets. 

The  country  vegetables  I  have  already  alluded  to  are 
nice  with  ordinary  salad  sauce,  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Choose  very  young  brinjals,  boil,  and  when  cold,  slice 
them  ;  bandecais  may  be  plainly  arranged  in  rows  ;  young 
pumpkins  must  be  sliced,  and  greens  should  be  slightly 
boiled  and  divined.  Strips  of  anchovies,  well  wiped  from 
their  tin  oil,  may  be  slipped  into  these  salads  with  satis- 
factoiy  results. 

The  bandecai.  Hind  :  hhmdi,  if  gathered  young  and 
boiled  till  tender  makes  an  excellent  salad  in  this  way  : — 
aiTange  the  bandecais  on  a  flat  dish  placed  over  some 
crushed  ice.  With  a  dessert-knife  slit  each  one  open 
longitudinally  ;  in  the  slit  put  a  fillet  of  anchovy,  and  over 
all,  pour  a  little  iced  salad  dressing. 

The  young  shoots  or  stalks  of  molJay,  Hind,  choolaiie, 
boiled,  drained,  and  cut  up,  make,  when  cold,  a  capital 


SALADS.  211 


salad  :  use  a  p  lain  oil  and  vinegar  dressing,  and  toss  some 
cliopped  olives,  onions,  and  a  minced  anchovy  among  the 
chopped  stalks. 

Here  is  a  noble  recipe  for  a  mayonnaise  'a  la  gouffe  for 
which  I  have  to  thank  a  fair,  and  most  accomplished  artiste 
now  in  Madras  : — 

In  an  oval,  or  round  cylinder-mould  placed  in  ice,  pour  a 
very  little  well  made  liquid  aspic  jelly  ;  as  soon  as  it  is  all 
but  set,  dispose  neatly  therein  a  number  of  little  balls  of 
green  butter,  and  prawn  butter  (q.  v.)  alternately,  cover 
them  with  some  more  of  the  jelly,  set  them,  and  repeat 
the  process  in  layers  as  it  were  until  the  mould  is  packed. 
You  must  ice  the  balls  of  butter  before  you  put  them  in, 
and  alternate  them  differently  in  each  layer,  so  that  the 
colours  may  be  checkered.  The  mould  can  now  be  left  in 
ice  to  consolidate  thoroughly.  When  turned  out,  you  can 
garnish  it  externally  with  balls  of  the  same  fancy  butters^ 
turned  olives,  strips  of  anchovy,  and  hard-boiled  yolks  of 
egcr^  and  pack  its  hollow  centre  with  the  fish,  or  fowl,  of 
which  youi"  mayonnaise  is  composed.  Lettuce  leaves  culled 
from  the  golden  heart  should  crown  the  centre,  and  be 
arranged  with  some  whole  boiled  prawns  in  their  shells 
round  the  margin  of  the  dish  outside  the  mould.  The 
mould  of  jelly  and  its  sauce  should  be  kept  in  the  ice  box 
till  the  nick  of  time  before  serving,  when  (in  this  case) 
the  latter  should  be  poured  over  the  contents  in  the  centre 
of  the  mould.     For  aspic  jelly,  vide  Menu,  No.  9. 

My  up-country  readers  have  only  to  make  their  fancy 
butter  from  tinned  lobster  meat,  instead  of  prawns,  to 
turn  out  just  as  grand  a  mayonnaise  as  this.  For  fancy 
butters,  please  follow  me  in  the  next  chapter. 


OPi^\.^^TEPB    ^^: 


.II. 


VV?^: 


Mors  d'cBuvres. 

E  must  now  consider  those  attractive  accessories 

of    an    artistic    dinner,    luncheon,  or  breakfast 

party,  which,    under  the   title   of  hors    iVceuvreg, 

arc  gradually  becoming  popular   amongst   English  people 

whose  minds  have  expanded  under  the  bcneticial  iiitlucnc^e 

of  travel  in  foreign  countries. 

J7or.?  tVcsnvres,  as  you  all  doubtless  know,  are  little  dain- 
ties, or  kickshaws,  carefully  prepared,  and  tastefully  serv- 
ed, which,  on  the  continent,  are  offered  to  the  diner  to 
whet  his  appetite  prior  to  the  more  important  discussion 
of  the  banquet  itself.  In  Italy  the  service  of  these  trifles 
under  the  title  of  "  nntipasto,''  precedes  every  meal  as  a 
standard  custom.  We  have  not  yet  acquired  this  agree- 
able fashion,  notwithstanding  that  the  sending  around  of 
three  or  four  oysters  to  each  guest,  with  a  slice  of  brown 
bread  and  butter,  &c.,  has  for  a  long  time,  been  no  novelty 
either  in  England,  or  in  Madras.  Our  custom,  as  a  general 
rule,  is  to  reserve  the  hors  cVoeuvres  to  accompany  the  cheese, 
and  to  advocate  a  change  would,  I  fear,  be  lost  labour  on 
the  part  of  the  author  of  these  jottings.  As  far  as  lun- 
cheon, and  breakfast  parties  are  concerned,  however,  surely 
we  might  adopt  the  Italian  custom  as  a  novelty,  and  watch 
its  effect  upon  our  friends,  before  passing  an  opinion  upon 
the  suitability  of  the  introduction  ? 


HORS  D'CEUVRES.  213 

Unlike  the  greater  part  of  our  culinary  labours,  this 
pretty  item,  of  our  menu  need  cost  us  but  little  trouble.  We 
can  obtain  many  excellent  things  wherewith  to  captivate 
the  appetite,  and  we  can  make  others  which  in  their  way 
are  generally  successful.  Olives  fargies^  olives  plain,  ancho- 
vies in  oil,  sardines,  sliced  Bologna  sausage,  preserve  I 
tunny,  lax,  lobster,  cod's  roes,  seer-fish  roes,  reindeer's 
tongues,  ox  tongue,  devilled  ham,  potted  meats,  fancy 
butters,  herrings  d  la  sardine,  pilchards  in  oil,  caviare, 
oysters,  pickles,  cucumber,  radishes,  thin  bread  and  butter, 
wafer  biscuits,  oaten  biscuits,  and  last  but  not  least  "  Bom- 
bay ducks,"  provide  us  with  a  goodly  list  from  which  to 
choose  our  tasty  morsels. 

Hors  d'oeuvres  should  be  served  in  a  dish  divided  into 
compartments.  Tongue,  sausages,  and  ham,  should  be 
most  delicately  sliced.  Preserved  fish  should  be  very 
carefully  wiped  free  from  all  tin-oil,  and  re-dressed  with 
the  finest  salad  oil :  if  of  a  large  kind,  small  portions  should 
be  cut  to  suit  the  dish.  Potted  meats  should  be  fresh, 
home-made,  and  prettily  shaped  in  a  cone.  Caviare 
should  be  turned  out  of  the  tin,  and  garnished  with 
quarters  of  lime.  Fancy  butters  must  be  iced,  and  served 
separately. 

Sardines  can  be  greatly  improved  by  being  treated  as 
"  Norwegian  Anchovies."  Open  a  tin  of  the  best  sardines, 
take  the  fish  out  one  by  one,  and  place  them  on  a  dish. 
Wipe  them  free  from  oil,  carefully  pick  off  their  skins  and 
divide  each  sardine  in  half  lengthwise.  Give  the  fillets 
thus  obtained  a  dusting  of  white  pepper.  Now,  take  an 
oval  earthenware  pot,  see  that  it  is  dry  and  clean,  slice  a 
Bombay  onion  up,  and  put  a  layer  of  the  rings  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pot,  with  a  cinnamon  leaf,  and  a  pepper  corn 
or  two.  Arrange  over  this  a  layer  of  sardine  fillets,  and 
continue  the  process  until  the  pot  is  filled,  or  the  fillets 
are  exhausted.     Pour  over  the  layers  a  marinade  of  oil  and 


214  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

vine<^ar  (one  spoonful  of  the  latter  to  four  of  the  former) 
and"  in  a  few  hours  the  sardines  may  be  eaten. 

Sometimes  sardines  are  too  soft  to  fillet ;  in  that  case  be 
contented  with  skinning  them  only. 

Oysters,  of  course,  are  never  sent  round  with  the  cheese. 
When  they  appear  before  dinner,  send  them  up  in  their 
shells,  and  be  quick  with  their  accompaniments.  You 
sometimes  see  a  hungry  man  polish  off  his  bivalves  before 
the  lime,  pepper,  and  bread  and  butter,  have  reached  liini. 
You  can  combat  this  contingency  by  breaking  up  the 
dishes  containing  these  adjuncts  into  detachments,  and 
serving  them  in  two  or  three  directions  at  once.  But  a 
far  better  plan  is  this.  Before  dinner  is  announced,  put 
the  plates  of  oysters  with  the  slices  of  brown  bread  and 
butter  upon  them  in  each  guest's  place,  and  send  your 
vinegar  and  pepper  round  as  fast  as  you  can  after  they 
are  seated. 

In  selecting  your  hors  d\iiuvres  to  accompany  the  cheese 
try  to  avoid  giving  two  fishy  things  on  the  same  dish, 
thus  : — do  not  give  anchovies,  and  prawn  butter  together, 
or  olives  farcies  and  caviare  ;  but  take,  let  us  say,  anchovy 
butter,  devilled  ham,  and  oat  biscuit,  or  cream  cheese, 
olives  far(-ies,  and  wafer  biscuit.  Here  are  a  few  com- 
binations : — 

Anchovy  fillets,  watercress,  butter,  dry  toast. 

Kippered  seer  fish,  sliced  tongue,  oat  biscuit. 

Herring  d  la  sardine,  potted  tongue,  dry  biscuit. 

Cheese  fingers,  green  butter,  radishes. 

Cucumber,  olives  farcies,  oat  biscuit. 

Pilchards  in  oil,  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  pulled  bread. 

The  best  cheese  you  can  get,  cut  into  dice,  should  accom- 
pany the  above  if  served  a  VAnglaise  at  that  period  of  the 
dinner. 


MORS  D'CEUVRES.  215 


The  garnishing  of  the  compartments  of  the  liors  fVoeuvres 
dish  should  be  tastefully  done  with  knots  of  curled  parsley, 
curled  cress,  a  little  bunches  of  fresh  water-cress. 

A  single  cold  canape,  if  very  carefully  composed,  may  be 
placed  upon  each  guest's  plate  as  a  prelude  to  the  dinner 
when  oysters  are  out  of  season.  Cut  some  thin  slices  of 
stale  brown  or  white  bread,  butter  them  as  for  sandwiches, 
and  cut  out  of  them  a  number  of  oblong  pieces  two  inches 
long,  and  one  and  a  half  broad.  Make  sandwiches  as 
follows  : — Upon  one  of  the  pieces  put  a  fillet  of  anchovy 
cut  into  strips,  with  a  thin  slice  of  olive  here  and  there  to 
fill  interstices  ;  smooth  the  combination  over  with  some 
pounded  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg,  dust  over  with  yellow 
pepper,  and  cover  with  one  of  the  pieces  of  bread.  Gar- 
nish each  sandwich  thus  made  with  a  turned  olive,  or  a 
sprig  of  water-cress.  Or  sprinkle  over  each  a  canopy  of 
grated  ham,  granulated  hard-boiled  yolk  of  eg^,  or  cod's 
roe. 

In  like  manner  you  can  with  a  little  forethought  com- 
pose divers  canapes,  using  caviare,  sardines,  fish-roe,  green 
Vjutter,  strips  of  green  capsicum,  or  of  cucumber,  and 
garnishing  with  tongue  cut  tastefully  with  a  cutter,  grated 
ham,  or  powdered  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg. 

In  making  canapes,  for  service  before  dinner,  care  should 
be  taken  to  keep  them  small.  The  dimensions  I  have 
ijiven  should  not  be  exceeded  and  the  bread  should  be 
cut  thin. 

Home-made  cream  cheeses  are  not  seen  as  often  as  they 
ought  to  be,  and  yet  a  child  could  make  one,  following  any 
domestic  cookery  book  recipe.  There  are  few  things  more 
appreciated  at  the  end  of  a  dinner  party  than  this  most  dain- 
ty little  dish.  A  breakfast-cupful  of  pure  cream  will  yield  a 
pretty  little  cheese  for  a  party  of  six.  The  method  is 
simple  enough.     Mix   a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  with  a  large 


216  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

breakfast-cupful  of  rich  cream,  stir  it  well,  and  then  pour 
the  cream  into  a  slop  basin  in  which  a  clean  piece  of  soft 
linen  has  been  laid.  When  the  cream  has  been  thus  turned 
into  the  cloth,  draw  the  ends  of  the  cloth  together,  holding 
the  cream  as  it  were  in  a  bag,  tie  it  tightly  with  string, 
and  hang  the  bag  in  a  cool  place  to  drip  ;  when  the  drip- 
ping of  moisture  from  the  bag  ceases,  the  cheese  is  ready  : 
take  the  bag  down,  turn  the  contents  out  into  a  clean  cloth, 
mould  it  into  a  circular  form,  or  shape  it  in  a  neat  square, 
and  serve  it  on  a  dish  garnished  with  green  leaves.  Let 
it  stand  in  the  ice-box  till  wanted.  A  day  will  be  found 
sufiBcient  for  the  making  of  this  kind  of  cheese  in  warm 
weather  and  about  forty-eight  hours  on  the  Hills.  Use  a 
porous  sort  of  cloth  for  the  operation,  so  as  to  encourage 
the  escape  of  the  whey  from  the  cheese.  It  is  sometimes 
advisable  to  change  the  cloth  during  the  draining  process. 

Fancy  butters  have  of  late  become  justly  popular. 
There  are  many  ways  of  making  them.  The  objects  you 
must  keep  in  view  when  composing  a  fancy  butter,  may  be 
thus  summed  up  : — a  pleasant  flavour,  a  pretty  tint,  and 
novelty.  To  secure  the  first  it  is  imperatively  necessary 
that  the  basis  upon  which  you  work  be  beyond  suspicion. 
The  butter  you  use  must  be  the  best  possible.  If,  there- 
fore, you  cannot  make  it  at  home  from  cream  you  have  set 
under  your  own  eye,  I  strongly  advise  you  to  use  that  of  a 
freshly  opened  "  Denmark''  tin.  You  must  wash  the  butter 
well  with  milk,  and  form  it  with  your  butter-bat,  setting 
it  in  ice  afterwards.  The  colouring  is  clap-trap  work  : 
you  can  get  a  nice  green  tint  from  '*  spinach  greening," 
and  a  pretty  orange  scarlet  from  crab,  or  tinned  lobster 
coral.  Novelty  rests  with  yourself  :  you  can  ring  the 
changes  upon  pounded  anchovies,  sardines,  soft  herring 
roes,  lobster,  prawns,  crab,  and  pilchards  :  you  can  use 
capers,  parsley,  water-cress,  garden-cress,  gherkins,  and 
olives.     By  the  judicious  selection  of  your  ingredients,  all 


MORS  D'CEUVRES.  217 

of  which  are  agreeable  in  fancy  butter,  you  will  avoid 
sameness,  and  secure  success.  This  is  my  recipe  for  a 
stock  "  green-butter"  : — 

1. — Weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  such  as  I  have 
described,  and  ice  it. 

2. — Boil  a  couple  of  good  handfuls  of  spinach,  drain 
them  thoroughly,  pass  the  leaves  through  the  hair  sieve, 
and  save  all  the  jDulp,  so  obtained,  in  a  bowl. 

3. — Take  six  full  sized  anchovies  from  the  tin,  wipe 
them  free  from  oil,  pick  out  their  back  bones,  pass  them 
through  the  hair  sieve,  and  save  the  pulp. 

4. — Mince  as  finely  as  possible  sufficient  curled  parsley 
to  fill  a  table-spoon  generously. 

5. — Mince  also  as  finely  as  possible  capers  sufficient  to 
fill  a  tea-spoon,  heaped  up. 

6. — Having  these  ingredients  ready,  first  colour  the 
butter  by  working  into  it,  as  lightly  as  you  can,  enough 
''  spinach-greening"  to  secure  the  tint  you  require  (it  is 
always  wise  to  order  a  little  more  spinach  than  you  think 
you  may  want,  to  be  on  the  safe  side)  then  add  the  other 
things  by  degrees,  and  when  thoroughly  'incorporated, 
trim  the  butter  into  a  tasteful  mould,  or  sundry  pretty 
patlets,  and  set  it  in  the  ice-box. 

Maitre  d' hot  el  butter  I  have  already  given  (page  82.) 
It  is  quite  worthy  of  a  place  amongst  hors  d'ceiivres. 

Prawn  butter, — a  highly  delicious  composition,  should 
be  made  in  this  way  : — Boil  the  prawns,  clean  them  care- 
fully, pound  them  to  a  paste  in  your  mortar,  mixing  a 
little  butter  with  them  to  assist  the  operation.  Now,  melt 
some  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  mix  your  pounded  prawn  meat 
in  it,  and  as  soon  as  it  appears  to  have  absorbed  the  butter 
(having  been  well  stirred  during  the  process  and  flavoured 
with  a  very  little   cayenne   pepper,  and  powdered   mace) 

19 


218  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

take  it  out,  let  it  get  cold  and  mix  it  with  yonr  iced  butter 
in  the  proportion  of  about  half  and  half.  The  pounding 
must  be  thorough  ;  there  should  be  no  granulated  particles 
of  prawn  meat  in  the  butter. 

Crab-coral  butter,  and  lobster  butter  may  be  made  ex- 
actly as  the  foregoing  :  in  the  case  of  the  former,  I  would 
put  in  a  couple  of  anchovies,  as  the  coral  is  rather  taste- 
less ;  and  in  that  of  the  latter,  I  would  wash  the  lobster 
clean,  getting  rid  of  all  oily,  tinny  juices.  To  do  this, 
turn  the  contents  of  tin  out  upon  a  sieve,  with  a  bowl  un- 
der it  to  catch  the  liquor  ;  when  the  lobster  meat  drips  no 
longer,  pour  over  it  a  good  jugful  of  clean  cold  watei- 
turning  the  pieces  so  that  they  may  all  come  under  the 
stream,  then  dry  and  pound  it. 

Hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  may  be  passed  through  the 
sieve,  and  be  made  to  form  a  jiart  of  any  fancy  butter  . 
they  tint  plain  butter  yellow,  and  make  a  tasty  pat  if  fla- 
voured with  soft  herring  roes,  or  cod's  roes,  peppered,  and 
sharpened  with  a  few  capers. 

Fish  that  is  very  salt  must,  of  course,  be  soaked  in  water 
before  it  can  be  used  :  anchovies  in  oil  do  not  need  that 
treatment.  Dorgona  anchovies,  on  the  other  hand,  must 
be  freed  from  brine  by  steeping. 

Home-made  potted  meats,  if  carefully  made,  so  far  sur- 
])ass  those  which  you  get  in  tins,  that  I  can  hardly  under- 
stand why  they  are  so  rarely  attempted.  Really  good 
butter,  and  a  very  little  pure  gravy,  attentively  extracted 
from  some  fresh  meat  and  bones,  are  the  chief  corner- 
vStones  in  such  compositions.  Ramasamy  invariably  over- 
spices  his  potted  meat,  cooks  it  over  the  fire  in  some  strange 
way,  and  the  less  we  enquire  into  the  class  of  butter  he 
uses  the  better. 

Potted  prawns  should  be  made  precisely  as  laid  down 
for  prawn  butter,   omitting  the  final  amalgamation  with 


MORS  D'CEUVRES.  219 

batter.     I  will   select  home-made  potted  tongue  as  a  trust- 
worthy method  of  using  up  meat  advantageously  : — 

Take  one  pound  weight  of  tongue,  home-cured,  (do  not 
hesitate  to  pay  eight  or  ten  annas  for  it  when  fresh  :  the 
sum  w411  not  ruin  you,  and  you  will  get  you  money's 
worth)  four  ounces  of  the  best  butter,  a  salt-spoonful 
of  pounded  mace,  a  coffee-cup  of  beef  gravy,  a  tea- spoonful 
of  "  spiced  pepper"  (q.  v.  page  111),  and  work  them  in 
this  manner  : — cut  off  the  hard  skin  of  the  tongue,  and 
pass  the  meat  through  your  mincing  machine  :  after  that, 
pound  it  thoroughly  in  your  mortar,  adding  the  butter 
and  gravy  during  the  operation  :  press  the  meat  through 
youi'  wire-sieve  to  get  rid  of  gristle,  and  lumps,  work  the 
spiced  pepper  and  mace  into  it,  and  pat  it  down  tightly  in 
a  jar  :  smooth  the  surface  :  melt  a  table- spoonful  of  the 
same  sort  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  pour  it  over  the 
surface  ;  let  it  get  cold,  and  the  work  will  be  completed. 
This  receipt  is  practicable,  as  to  quantities,  with  cold  corned 
beef,  chicken  and  tongue  (half  and  half),  cold  roast  beef, 
and  even  mutton.  Roast-beef,  and  mutton,  require  aboiit 
three  anchovies  to  the  pound,  as  they  have  not  the  flavour 
of  salted  meat. 

Potted  snipe,  hare,  partridges,  &c.,  are  excellent. 
Don't  forget  the  livers  when  you  are  potting  birds, 
and  turn  back  to  page  70  for  my  recipe  for  "/oie  gras 
forcemeat,"  a  little  of  which  will  encourage  your  game 
'pate  exceedingly.  If  you  happen  to  have  any  spare  atoms 
of  truffles  handy,  slip  them  into  the  potted  meat,  and  no 
man  will  blame  you. 

"  Mock-crab"  is  the  name  given  to  a  very  good  hors 
(.Voiuvre  in  which  cheese  plays  a  prominent  part;  it  is 
made  in  this  way : — a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  prawn  meat, 
two  ounces  of  good  fresh  cheese,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard 
powder,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  a  dessert-spoonful 


220  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

of  "  ancho\y  vinegar,"  and  a  liberal  dusting  of  spiced 
pepper.  Pound  everything  (omitting  the  prawns)  and 
"^ork  the  mixture  till  it  looks  like  a  very  thick  mayonnaise 
sauce,  adding  oil  if  necessary  to  obtain  that  result :  when 
ready,  mingle  it  with  the  prawn  meat,  pounded,  &c.,  as  in 
the  former  receipt,  and  trim  it  into  a  shapely  little  mould 
for  serving.  Even  without  any  prawn  meat  a  very  good 
mock-crab  can  be  made  :  a  table-spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce 
supplies  the  fishy  flavour. 

"  Pulled  bread"  accompanies  the  cheese  in  the  place  of 
biscuits.  You  can  make  it  easily  enough,  if  you  bake  at 
home,  as  follows  : — Make  a  pound  loaf,  and  when  the  bread 
is  all  but  done,  take  it  from  the  oven,  tear  the  crumb  from 
the  inside  with  a  fork  in  irregular  pieces,  place  them  on  a 
buttered  baking  tin  and  crisp  them  in  the  oven. 

Use  coarse  grained  oatmeal  for  your  oat  biscuits,  and 
send  them  up  piping  hot  from  the  griddle.  As  a  general 
rule  the  oat  cake  made  in  India  is  far  too  thin  :  the  paste 
should  be  rolled  at  least  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  before 
being  cut  into  cakes. 

"  Cheese  fingers"  should  be  made  in  these  proportions, — 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  puff  paste,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two 
ounces  of  grated  Parmesan,  or  other  mild  cheese,  and  a 
very  little  cayenne,  Nepaul  pepper,  or  a  few  drops  of 
"  tabasco."  Work  the  ingi^edients  together,  roU  the  paste 
out  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  oblong  shapes, 
about  three  inches  long,  bake  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible, 
on  a  napkin. 

"  Devilled  ham"  is  sold  in  tins,  it  is  as  good  a  thing  as 
can  be  got  at  a  pinch,  if  you  have  no  time  to  make  a  hors 
dUptivre  at  home.  It  is  not  as  hot  as  its  name  would  lead 
you  to  suppose  :  it  is  merely  potted  ham  well  peppered. 

Buy  your  "Bombay  ducks"  in  tins  from  Treacher  and 
Co.,   of  that  city.     I  discovered  this  in  Piccadillij  of  all 


MORS  D'CEUVRES. 


221 


places  in  the  world.  Jackson  and  Co.  import  the  "  ducks" 
from  Bombay  neatly  flattened  out,  floured,  and  packed  in 
oblong  tins.  When  jou  remember  the  number  of  hands 
through  which  the  bazar-bought  fish  passes,  the  flies  that 
have  settled  upon  it,  and  the  impossibility  of  washing 
dried  fish,  you  will,  I  hope,  agree  with  me  that  my  recom- 
mendation is  absolutely  philanthropical. 

If  desirous  of  obtaining  the  best  potted  meat  in  the 
market,  buy  Brand's. 


oP3:^.r=>TEi^  :?^>ciii. 


Savoury    Toasts. 

VJ^TO  disli  is  more  thoroughly  useful,  or  more  generally 
•!Jl\  |N  popular,  than  the  savoury  toast.  It  is  a  kind  of 
thing  that  can  frequently  be  made  at  a  pinch, 
Avhen  the  larder  is  all  but  empty,  and  a  hungry  friend 
drops  in  unexpectedly.  A  dainty  feeder  will  sometimes 
fancy  it  when  he  will  scarcely  look  at  anything  in  the 
way  of  food.  If  well  made,  it  serves  as  a  finish  to  a 
little  home  dinner,  and  it  is  equally  acceptable  at  breakfast, 
luncheon,  or  supper.  In  its  composition  tasty  scraps  of  all 
kinds  can  be  used  up  successfully,  without  any  great  effort 
on  the  part  of  the  cook,  or  loss  of  time.  In  common  with 
almost  every  branch  of  cookery,  this  offshoot  of  the  science 
is  susceptible  of  elaborate,  as  well  as  of  simple  treatment ; 
and  may  be  fashioned  to  obey  the  dictates  of  extravagance 
as  well  as  those  of  the  strictest  economy.  Yet,  generally 
speaking,  savoury  toasts  of  an  ordinary  kind  ought  to  be 
favourably  regarded  by  all  thrifty  house-keepers,  inasmuch 
as  they  afford  an  easy  and  pleasant  way  of  working  up 
fragments  of  good  food  that  might  otherwise  be  wasted. 

The  rules  of  toast-making  are  few,  and  very  simple  : — 
1. — Unless  sj^ecially  stated  to  the  contrary  in  the  recipe, 
the  slice  of  bread  destined  to  receive  any  savoury  compo- 
sition should  be  delicately /rzeti  in  butter  till  of  a  golden 
colour,  rather  than  toasted  in  the  ordinary  manner.     If 


SAVOURY  TOASTS.  223 

kept  waiting  at  all,  ordinarily  toasted  bread  becomes 
spongy  or  sodden,  and  soon  loses  its  crisj^ness.  The  easy 
process  of  toasting  too,  is  frequently  slurred  over  carelessly, 
and  the  bread  is  scorched,  not  toasted.  If  you  watch  a 
native  servant  in  the  act  of  toasting,  you  will  generally  find 
that  he  places  the  slice  of  bread  as  close  to  the  glowing 
embers  as  possible.  Setting  aside  the  risk  that  the  bread 
thus  incurs  of  catching  a  taint  of  gas  from  the  live  char- 
coal, it  cannot  be  evenly  and  delicEitely  browned,  neither  can 
it  attain  that  thorough  crispness  which  is  a  sine  quel  non  in 
properly  made  toast.  The  slice  of  bread  must  be  kept  some 
little  distance  from  the  clear  embers,  being  gradually 
heated  through,  crisped,  and  lightly  and  evenly  browned 
by  degrees.  But,  as  I  said  before,  bread  fried  in  good  butter 
is  better,  with  a  very  few  exceptions,  than  toasted  bread 
for  the  sort  of  dishes  we  are  going  to  discuss. 

2. — A  Savoury  toast  is  not  worth  serving  unless  it  be 
piping  hot :  it  may  be  kept  hot  in  the  oven,  to  be  sure, 
but  it  is  never  so  good  as  when  set  before  the  hungry  guest 
the  moment  it  has  been  completed.  In  order  to  ensure  this 
'  slickness'  (to  borrow  a  trans-Atlantic  term)  let  the  cook 
be  warned  to  have  everything  ready,  but  not  actually  to 
finish  off  the  making  of  his  toast  till  it  is  wanted.  It  is 
better  to  keep  the  table  waiting  for  three  or  four  minutes 
for  a  bonne-bouche,  than  to  serve  immediately  such  a  miser- 
able fiasco  as  a  cold  toast. 

The  next  thing  to  consider  is  the  composition  of  a  savoury 
toast,  which  I  will  endeavour  to  describe  in  a  series 
of  recipes.  Let  us  commence  with  our  time-honoured 
friend  : — 

Anchovy  toast.  If  you  have  a  tin  of  anchovies  in  oil, 
the  process  is  this  : — Take  six  anchovies,  wipe  them  free 
from  oil,  split  them  open,  remove  the  spines,  and  pass  the 
fish  through  your  hair  sieve  :  put  the  pulp  in  a  bowl,  and 
stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs.     Cut  four  nice 


224  CULINARY  yOTTIXGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

rounds  or  slices  of  bread,  and  fry  them  in  butter  till  of  a 
bright  golden  tint ;  arrange  them  on  a  very  hot  silver  dish, 
and  cover  them  up.  Now,  melt  a  table-spoonful  of  butter 
at  the  bottom  of  a  sauce-pan  which  should  be  dipped 
into  a  hain-marie  or  any  vessel  containing  boiling  water  ; 
stir  into  the  melted  butter  the  anchovy  pulp  mixture,  let 
it  thicken  and  when  quite  hot,  pom*  it  over  the  four  toasts, 
and  send  the  dish  up  immediately. 

Or, — (to  be  made  at  the  table,  with  anchovy  sauce) 
choose  a  very  hot  plate  indeed,  put  a  lump  of  butter  upon 
it,  and  let  the  butter  melt ;  add  the  yolks  only  of  two  raw 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  stir  into  the  mixture  sufficient 
anchovy  sauce  to  colour  it  a  pale  salmon  pink — (if  you  put 
in  enough  to  obtain  a  darker  shade,  it  will  be  too  salt)  — 
add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sherry  and  mix  it  well.  Whilst 
doing  this,  a  servant  should,  in  this  instance,  be  toastinq 
slices  of  bread  in  the  verandah  hard  by,  and  each  slice 
should  be  brought  in  hot  from  the  fire,  turned  over  on  both 
sides  in  the  mixture,  and  passed  round  at  once,  one  after 
another.  A  toast  that  has  been  well  soalced  in  a  sauce  like 
this,  and  crisped  in  the  oven  afterwards,  is  far  from 
bad. 

Anchovy  toasts  arc  sometimes  sent  up  with  tasty  top- 
dressings,  such  as  poached  (^gs:^,  buttered  eggs,  and  this 
sauce  : — Beat  up  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  pour  them 
by  degrees  into  a  small  sauce-pan  in  which  two  ounces 
of  butter  have  been  melted  over  a  very  moderate  fire,  or 
in  the  bain-marie  :  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  and  a 
tea-spoonful  of  vinegar,  continue  to  stir  the  sauce  gently 
till  it  thickens  nicely,  and  pour  it  over  your  anchovy  toasts. 
This  sauce  should  be  carefully  watched,  for  if  permitted 
to  approach  boiling,  it  will  curdle  and  become  lumpy  ; 
what  you  want  is  a  very  thick,  creamy-looking  custard. 

Purees  of  certain  vegetables  are  very  nice  as  top-dress- 


SAVOURY  TOASTS.  225 

ings  for  anchovy  toasts  ;  especially  those  of   spinach,  beet- 
root leaves,  peas,  or  any  delicate  greens. 

A  number  of  nicB  toasts  can  be  made  with  eo-o-s  ;  from 
the  plainly  poached  egg  served  upon  a  little  square  of 
bread  fried  a  golden  brown  in  butter,  to  the  delicate 
^^  r Sties  des  oeufs  hrouilles  aux  trufes.'^ 

Buttered  eggs  (ceufs  hrouilles)  are  undeniably  good  if 
served  quite  simply,  upon  crisply  fried  bread,  straight 
from  the  fire.  Grated  ham,  finely  minced  tongue,  and 
little  dice  of  crisply  fried  bacon,  are  capital,  if  at  hand, 
to  garnish  the  surface  of  the  eggs  with  ;  and  chopped 
herbs,  anchovy,  or  the  minced  remnants  of  any  fish  like 
sardines,  pilchards,  or  herrings,  may  be  stirred  into  the 
eggs  just  before  serving  with  marked  advantage.  Cold 
cooked  vegetables,  such  as  cauliflower,  artichokes,  aspara- 
gus, &c.,  may  be  cut  up  and  mixed  with  the  eggs  in  the 
same  way, — in  fact,  a  moment's  thought  will  generally 
enable  a  careful  cook  to  make  his  buttered  egg  toasts  ad- 
ditionally tasty  by  the  introduction  of  some  nice  trifle  left 
from  a  previous  meal,  which  could  scarcely  be  made  use 
of  in  any  other  manner. 

Hard-boiled  eggs  make  a  very  eatable  toast  in  this 
way  : — Grate  a  coifee-cupful  of  corned  beef,  bacon-lean,  or 
ham  ;  cut  four  hard-boiled  eggs  into  eight  pieces  each  ; 
mix  a  good  sauce  hlanche  rather  thickly,  flavour  it  with  a 
tea-spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  and  slip  into  it,  so  as  to  get 
thoroughly  hot,  the  cut  up  eggs  ;  when  steaming,  pour  the 
contents  of  your  sauce-pan  over  four  nicely  fried  squares 
of  bread,  dust  the  grated  beef  over  their  surfaces  and 
serve  at  once. 

The  happy  o^\mers  of  dairies  to  whom  cream  is  not  an 
extraordinary  luxury  should  try  : — 

"  Boties  des  oeufs  a  la  creme,"  which  are  simply  poached 


226  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

eggs  served  upon  crisply  fried  toasts,  with  thick  boiling 
cream  poured  over  them. 

Woodcock  toast  is  one  of  the  most  recherche  of  all 
savoury  entremets  of  this  class.  Numerous  recipes  are 
given  for  it,  and  its  name  is  distorted  by  many  writers  upon 
cookery,  some  of  whom  ])resent  it  to  their  readers  under 
the  meaningless  title  of  "  Scotch-Woodcock."  In  its  un- 
pretending form  this  toast  is  exceedingly  like  one  I  have 
already  given,  viz.  : — a  better  kind  of  anchovy  toast  with 
an  egg-cream  custard  to})-dressing,  but  I'eal  "  AYoodcock- 
toast"  should  be  composed  as  follows  : — 

Take  two  freshly  boiled  fowl's  livers, — [those  of  a  goose, 
a  turkey,  or  a  couple  of  ducks,  are  better  still,  while  the 
remains  of  iipdte  de  foie  gras  are  superlatively  the  best]  — 
j)()und  the  liver  to  a  paste,  mixing  with  it  a  tea-spoonful 
of  anchovy  sauce,  or  the  flesh  of  one  fish  pounded,  a  pinch 
of  sugar,  plenty  of  fresh  butter,  and  the  yolk  of  one  raw 
egg  ;  dnst  into  it  a  little  spiced  pepper,  pass  it  througli  the 
sieve,  and  set  it  aside  on  a  clean  plate.  Prepare  four 
squares  of  golden-tinted,  crisply-fried,  bread,  about  lialf  an 
inch  thick,  spread  the  liver  paste  over  them  and  set  them  in 
a  moderate  oven  to  retain  their  heat,  but  not  to  burn.  Xow, 
pour  a  coffee-cupful  of  good  cream  into  a  sauce-pan,  which 
must  either  be  dipped  into  a  buin-marie,  or  placed  over  a 
very  low  fire  indeed  ;  stir  into  it,  as  it  warms,  the  carefully 
strained  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  continue  stirring  one  way 
till  the  cream  thickens  nicely  and  is  quite  hot  (without 
boiling)  and  pour  it  over  your  toasts  :  the  egg  whites 
(whisked  by  an  assistant  to  a  stiff  froth  whilst  you  wei-e 
heating  and  thickening  the  cream)  should  be  laid  on  the 
top  of  all,  and  the  dish  sent  up  without  delay. 

Or  the  preparation  may  be  slightly  varied  as  folloAvs  : — 
Fry  the  toasts,  butter  them,  and  set  them  in  a  mode- 
rate oven  to  keep  hot.     When  heating  the  cream,  stir  into 


SAVOURV  TOASTS.  227 

it  the  lli-er-paste  as  well  as  the  raw  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
pour  it  over  the  toasts  as  soon  as  it  is  quite  hot,  and 
thickened  sufficiently,  capping  your  dish  with  the  whisked 
whites. 

KiDXEY  TOAST  is  generally  far  from  being  considered  a 
very  dainty  one.  Let  me  suggest  two  methods,  one  with 
the  kidneys  au  naturel,  the  other  made  with  those  which 
you  can  cut  out  of  a  cold  roast  saddle  : — 

(a) — Take  four  ordinary  kidneys,  and  blanch  them  first 
of  all  in  scalding  water  (as  recommended  in  Menu  N'o.  23) 
then  lift  them  out,  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth.  Make  a 
strong  broth  or  gravy  out  of  any  bones  or  scraps  you 
may  have,  and  stew  the  kidneys  therein  till  they  are  nice 
and  tender,  then  take  them  out,  drain  them,  and  pour  the 
gravy  in  which  they  were  cooked  into  a  bowl.  Now,  cut 
up  and  pound  the  kidneys  to  a  paste  in  your  mortar  with 
some  butter,  and  pass  it  through  your  sieve.  When  ready, 
skim  any  grease  that  may  have  risen  to  the  top  of  your 
gravy,  and  take  a  medium-sized  sauce-pan,  working  as 
follows  : — Melt  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter  at  the  bottom 
of  the  sauce-pan,  stir  into  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour, 
when  creamy,  add  by  degrees  a  breakfast-cupful  of  the 
gravy  and  lastly,  kidney-paste  until  all  is  expended  : 
flavour  the  puree,  with  one  table-spoonful  port  wine,  one 
tea-spoonful  red  currant  jelly,  one  dessert-spoonful  anchovy 
vinegar,  and  a  few  drops  of  chilli  vinegar.  Let  the  contents 
of  your  sauce-pan  thicken  properly  by  coming  to  the  boil, 
and  then  pour  the  puree  over  four  squares  of  hot  fried 
toast.  Let  there  be  no  delay  in  serving.  If  made  exactly 
in  this  way,  this  toast  will  be  found  an  excellent  one. 

(h) — Cut  the  kidneys  out  of  the  cold  saddle,  together 
with  all  the  fat  belonging  to  them  ;  chop  up  as  much  fat 
as  there  is  of  kidney  meat  for  the  toast,  and  throw  the 
fat,  freed  from  all  burnt  skin,  &c.,  into  your 


228  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

fiyiug-pan  :  now,  fry  in  the  melted  fat  a  large  round  of 
bread  till  it  turns  a  golden  yellow,  and  has  sucked  up  a 
good  deal  of  the  fat.  Take  it  out,  place  it  on  a  flat  silver 
dish,  cover  its  surface  with  the  chopped  pieces  of  kidney 
and  the  fat  that  you  saved,  pour  the  remaining  melted  fat 
over  it,  divide  it  into  portions,  and  put  it  in  the  oven. 
When  quite  crisp,  and  *  short,'  serve  straightway  without 
fear.  Mustard,  Nepaul  pepper,  and  salt,  should  accom- 
pany, and  hot  plates  should  be  placed  before  each 
guest. 

Savoury  toast  made  of  the  remains  of  cold  roast  game 
are  delicious.  Teal,  wild-duck,  snipe,  quails,  andflorican  ; 
young  pea-fowl,  spur-fowl,  jungle-fowl,  and  even  par- 
tridges, may  be  thus  presented  a  second  time,  forming  a 
kind  of  rechauffe  which  rarely  fails  to  be  ajDpreciated.  The 
method  of  preparing  a  g.ame-toast  is  somewhat  similar  to 
that  I  have  described  for  "kidney  toast"  (a).  The  cold 
meat  should  be  picked  from  the  bones,  and  pounded  with 
a  little  butter  to  a  paste  :  the  skin  and  bones  (well  mashed) 
should  be  set  to  make  a  good,  strong,  game-flavoured 
gravy  wherewith  to  form  a  thick  puree  in  conjunction 
with  the  pounded  meat,  the  process  of  blending  which 
is  precisely  the  same  as  that  mentioned  in  the  recipe  pre- 
viously alluded  to.  Pour  the  puree  over  hot  fried  toasts, 
and  serve  without  hesitation. 

All  purees  of  game  composed  for  toasts  should  be  mixed 
rather  thickly  so  as  to  rest  upon  the  toast,  and  not  spread 
all  over  the  dish.  Nepaul  pepper,  and  quarters  of  limes, 
should  be  handed  round  with  them. 

I  have  already  said  that  spinach,  and  other  delicate 
greens — worked  up  in  the  form  of  purees — were  very  nice 
if  served  upon  anchovy  toast.  They  make  capital  toasts 
alone.  A  well  made  puree  of  spinach  laid  upon  a  crisply 
fried,  and  well  buttered  toast,  is  decidedly  good ;  a  poach- 


SAVOURY  TOASTS.  229 

ed  egg,  or  a  layer  of  "  buttered  eggs,"  can  be  added,  of 
course,  with  additional  effect. 

An  excellent  toast  can  be  made  with  the  tender  leaves 
and  stalks  of  the  beetroot.  After  having  been  boiled  and 
drained  like  spinach,  they  should  be  chopped  up  and 
heated  in  a  sauce-pan  with  some  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  spread  upon  hot  fried  toast  with  as  little  delay  as 
possible.  Country  greens,  the  leaves  of  the  mollay-heeray 
especially,  and  (with  slight  modification  according  to  their 
peculiarities)  nearly  all  vegetables  can  be  dressed  in  this 
manner. 

Vegetable  marrows  and  cucumbers  should  be  trimmed 
in  neat  fillets,  their  seeds  should  be  cut  out,  and  the  pieces 
thus  prepared  should  be  boiled  in  hot  salted  water.  These 
may  be  warmed  again  in  a  good  sauce  hlanclie  or  a  nice 
thick  brown  sauce,  laid  upon  toasts,  and  sent  up.  Or  they 
may  be  heated  up  in  boiling  cream,  and  similarly  served. 
The  points  of  asparagus,  cauliflower  flowers,  artichoke 
bottoms,  and  similar  dainty  vegetables,  form  admirable 
materials  for  toasts  :  they  deserve  delicate  treatment,  and 
can  well  bear  association  with  thickened  cream,  veloute  au 
Farmesan,  or  creme  d'ancliois. 

Bande-cai  (hliindi)  TOAST  is  so  well  known  that  I  need 
scarcely  do  more  than  mention  it,  out  of  respect  as  it  were, 
for,  homely  as  it  is,  there  are  few  toasts  more  palatable. 
Cream,  when  it  can  be  spared  is,  of  course,  a  vast  improve- 
ment, and  the  following  variation  will  be  found  nice  for  a 
change  : — Boil  the  bande-cais,  and,  when  cold,  scrape  out 
the  seeds  and  pulp  from  each  pod  into  a  small  basin,  using 
a  silver  spoon  for  the  operation.  Give  the  pulp  a  dusting 
of  white  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  with  a  few  drops  of 
anchovy  sauce.  Fry  rounds,  or  slices  of  bread,  according 
to  the  number  you  want,  in  butter,  and  set  them  to  keep 
crisp,  and  hot  in  the  oven.     Now,  take  a  small  sauce-pan, 

20 


230  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

place  it  in  the  hain-marie,  or  over  a  very  moderate  firC; 
melt  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter  in  it,  stir  into  it  the  bande- 
cai  pulp,  and  two  good  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  with  the 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Continue  stiii'ing  one  way  until  the 
contents  of  your  sauce-pan  look  nice  and  thick,  and  steam- 
ing hot ;  then  pour  the  mixtui-e  over  the  toasts,  and  serve. 
A  dust  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  should  be  shaken  over 
the  surface  of  the  toasts  as  an  embellishment,  and  Nepaul 
pepper  should  be  handed  round. 

Very  young  Bkixjals  (hinegun)  may  be  treated  exactly 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  foregoing,  as  also  the  pods  of 
the  moringa  ("  drum-stick")  tree.  Be  sure  that  you  select 
tender  pods  for  toast-making,  or  the  result  will  disappoint 
you. 

A  very  superior  dish  of  this  kind  can  be  concocted  if 
you  happen  to  be  able  to  obtain  the  flower-pod  of  a  cocoa- 
nut  palm.  Treat  the  buds  of  the  embryo  flower  which  the 
pod  contains  as  laid  down  for  hande-cai ;  that  is  to  say, 
hoil  the  flower,  after  you  have  cut  it  out  of  the  pod,  in  salt 
and  water  till  tender,  then  cut  off  the  buds,  and  heat  them 
up  in  a  sauce-pan  in  thickened  cream,  or  in  milk  thickened 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  pour  them  over  hot  fried  toasts, 
which  should  be  sent  up  immediately. 

The  white  stalls  of  the  flower,  if  quite  young,  can  be 
served  exactly  like  asparagus,  i.  e. : — boiled,  laid  in  a  very 
hot  dish,  with  plenty  of  butter  melting  over  them,  or 
maitre  cVhotel  butter  if  at  hand,  and  assisted  by  "  Dutch 
sauce."  No  toast  is  needed  in  this  case.  The  cocoanut 
flower-pods  can  be  obtained  now  and  then  at  Madras,  for 
the  toddy-drawers  cut  them  off  when  tapping  the  palms 
for  sap.  I  can  strongly  recommend  my  readers  to  try  both 
the  dishes  I  have  mentioned. 

Sardine  toast,  hereixg  toast,  cod's-roe  toast,  pil- 
chard   TOAST,    SALMON    TOAST,    &c.,    <fec.,  are  all  nice,  and 


SAVOURY  TOASTS.  231 


very  easily  made.  Trim  the  fish  free  from  oil,  skin,  fins, 
bones,  &c.,  and  chop  it  up  on  a  plate,  give  it  a  dust  of 
Nepaul  pepper,  with  a  very  little  salt,  and  knead  it  up 
with  a  little  butter.  Put  a  pat  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of 
a  sauce-pan,  proceed  as  if  to  make  a  sauce  blanche  with  a 
little  milk,  incorporate  therewith  the  minced  fish,  add  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  and  when  thick  enough  and  thoroughly 
hot,  pour  it  upon  slices  of  fried  toast  hot  from  the  pan, 
and  dish  up  quickly.  The  cold  remains  of  all  fish  may  be 
thus  satisfactorily  disposed  of.  "  Buttered  eggs"  go  won- 
derfully well  with  fish  toasts,  either  laid  as  a  top-dressing 
over  the  fish  mince,  or  mingled  with  it ;  and  hard-boiled 
eggs  may  be  cut  up,  and  tossed  with  the  fish  in  the  sauce- 
pan just  before  serving. 

Cheese  is  another  valuable  ingredient  in  the  hands  of 
the  toast-maker.  Welsh  rarebit,  or  "  Ramakin  toast" 
as  it  is  called  by  Ramasamy,  is  universally  familiar  to 
native  cooks,  and  is  a  dish  upon  which  they  generally 
fall  back  in  an  emergency,  or  when  "  Missis  din't  give 
arders"  for  any  anything  else.  For  a  really  good  Welsh 
RAREBIT,  you  should  have  a  sound  fresh  cheese,  not  over- 
strong,  and  proceed  thus  : — Grate  two  ounces  of  the  cheese  ^ 
mix  with  it  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  made- 
mustard,  a  little  salt,  a  pinch  of  Nepaul  pepper,  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mix  well  together  in  a  basin,  and  work 
the  mixture  thoroughly  smooth.  Toast  a  couple  of  neat 
slices  of  bread  very  carefully,  butter  them  on  both  sides, 
place  them  on  a  dish  that  will  stand  the  oven,  spread  the 
cheese  mixture  over  them  pretty  thickly,  and  bake  for  ten 
minutes.  If  you  want  a  smooth  yellow  surface,  neither 
too  brown  nor  dry,  place  your  toasts  in  a  buttered  pie-dish^ 
and  spread  a  sheet  of  common  white  paper  over  them  : 
after  ten  minutes  baking  in  a  really  hot  oven,  they  will  be 
ready,  so  remove  the  paper  and  serve  forthwith. 

A  good  plain  Cheese  toast,  made  as  followR;  is  not  tc 


232  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


be  despised  : — Cut  a  few  very  tliin  slices  of  a  nice  fresh 
cheese,  or  grate  two  ounces  of  a  hard  dry  one :  put  the 
cheese  upon  a  small  well  buttered  baking  tin,  and  place  it 
in  the  oven ;  watch  it  carefully,  and  when  it  begins  to 
dissolve,  stir  some  butter  into  it,  give  it  a  dust  of  Nepaul 
pepper,  and  serve  it  upon  crisply  fried  toasts  quickly. 

To  make  a  very  toothsome  cheese  toast  in  the  dining  room 
I  have  found  the  following  method  successful.  Take  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  and  mingle  with  it  a  des- 
sert-spoonful of  mustard  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  dust 
of  Nepaul  pepper.  Light  a  spirit  lamp,  and,  in  a  little 
frying-pan  placed  over  it,  melt  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter 
(tinned  butter  does  capitally)  ;  when  melted,  shake  evenly 
over  the  butter  the  powdered  cheese,  and  stir  Avell.  As 
soon  as  the  cheese  looks  creamy,  stop,  and  pour  it  over 
some  hot  buttered  toast  brought  in  on  the  in=:tant  from  the 
verandah. 

Mock  crab  toast. — This  variety  of  Welsh  rarebit  is 
generally  popular.  Pound  two  ounces  of  cheese  with  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
made-mustard,  and  one  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  Nepaul  pep- 
per, and  a  little  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Mix  thoroughly  in  a  basin,  and  pro- 
ceed as  directed  for  Welsh  rarehit. 

A  toast  that  might  correctly  bear  the  name  of  "  Rame- 
quin"  is  to  be  composed  as  follows : — Make  the  mixture 
exactly  as  laid  down  for  "  Ramequins  en  caisses,^^  Chapter 
24,  and  put  it  upon  very  carefully  fried  toasts,  which  should 
be  arranged  upon  a  silver  dish,  and  baked  for  ten  minutes, 
or  until  the  cheese  dressings  on  the  toasts  rise  in  the 
manner  of  fondues.  If  served  at  the  nick  of  time,  these 
little  toasts  will  be  found  very  good. 

Never  use  a  rich  ripe  cheese,  or  one  that  is  beginnincr 
to  show  the   lovely  tins  of   Jionorablc  age,  in  cookery.     A 


SAVOURY   TOASTS.  233 

little  mildew  from  damp  in  your  bottle  of  grated  Par- 
mesan, remember,  will  ruin  any  dish  in  which  it  may 
be  used  afterwards.  Choose  a  good,  fresh,  hard,  dry  cheese, 
of  a  mild  family,  for  toasts,  &c. :  between  ourselves,  indeed, 
I  know  of  no  more  useful  domestic  sort  than  the  round 
Butch.  It  is  a  cheap  cheese,  and  inclined  to  be  saltish  in 
taste,  but  that  is  of  no  consequence  in  cookery ;  all  you 
have  to  do  is  to  omit  the  item  of  salt  mentioned  in  the 
recipe  you  may  have  selected.  '  Dutch  cheese'  grates 
easily,  and  is  rarely  inclined  to  mouldiness.  I^ext  to  Par- 
mesan, I  would  sooner  use  it  than  any  of  the  other  com- 
monly imported  kinds. 

I  may  have  omitted  a  few  good  toasts  in  this  chapter,  I 
hope,  however,  that  I  have  given  several  that  will  prove 
acceptable. 


o:e3:.^^t^tei^    :^^:^s:i^^. 


m 


Eggs,  Maccaroni,  and  Cheese. 


Tt»yTNDER  the  title  which  I  have  selected  for  this  chap- 
^vcJ^  ter,  I  propose  to  place  before  you  a  few  dishes  of 
a  savoury  nature,  some  of  which  will  be  found,  I 
think,  suitable  for  the  breakfast,  or  luncheon  table,  and 
some  of  them  worthy  of  a  place  as  entremets  in  the  choicest 
of  dinner  menus. 

Although  many  people  must  be  aware  that  there  arc 
numerous  ways  of  cooking  eggs  nicely,  why  is  it  that  so 
few  attempt  to  go  beyond  the  ordinary  methods  which 
have  obtained  in  English  kitchens  since  good  King  Ai'thur 
ruled  the  land  ?  It  is  the  same  with  maccaroni :  how  rare 
a  thing  it  is  to  see  that  most  invaluable  article  of  food 
dressed  otherwise  than  in  the  time-honoured  baking-dish. 
And,  in  the  many  uses  of  cheese,  what  ignorance  we 
betray !  Whether  taken  independently,  and  made  the 
most  of  alone,  or  combined  together,  and  treated  in  some 
artistic  fashion,  we  possess  in  these  three  things  the  ele- 
ments of  certain  dainty  dishes  which,  in  their  way,  are 
excellent.  Singularly  adapted  to  the  climate  in  which 
we  spend  our  exile,  and  inexpensive,  they  are  at  the  same 
time  invested  with  a  certain  amount  of  refinement  that  to 
many  people  is  no  slight  recommendation. 

The  accessories  which  are  more  or  less  necessary  in  this 
branch  of  cookery  are  : — good  butter,  cream  occasionally, 


EGGS,  MACCARONI,  AND  CHEESE.  235 

a  little  clear  gravy,  herbs  and  onion  as  used  for  omelette 
making,  the  tomato,  cold  vegetables,  and  carefully  sifted 
bread-crumbs.  The  remains  of  fish,  game,  and  poultry ; 
grated  ham,  corned  beef,  and  tongue,  and  slices  of  saus- 
ages, may  be  also  occasionally  made  use  of  by  an  ingenious 
cook.     Let  us  first  consider  a  few  ways  of  serving  eggs  : — 

"  (Eufs  sur  le  plaf  : — This  simple,  yet  capital  method  of 
doing  eggs  in  a  hurry,  should  be  noted.  Melt  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  an  omelette-]pSbiQ.,  and  slip  two  eggs 
into  it,  carefully  avoiding  breaking  the  yolks  ;  let  them  set 
in  the  butter,  as  a  poached  egg  sets  in  water  ;  the  moment 
they  are  sufficiently  firm,  let  them  slide  off  into  the  hot 
dish  ready  to  receive  them,  pouring  the  butter  in  which 
they  were  cooked  over  them.  Put  in  the  eggs  the  moment 
the  butter  melts  ;  for,  when  first  they  go  in,  the  pan  should 
not  be  too  hot :  a  drop  or  two  of  tarragon  vinegar  may  be 
shaken  over  the  dished  eggs,  or  a  tiny  bit  of  inaitre  dlwtel 
butter  the  size  of  a  pea  may  be  allowed  to  melt  over  each 
of  them.  If  after  dishing  the  eggs,  you  return  the  pan  to 
the  fire,  and  brown  the  butter  before  pouring  it  over  them, 
you  have  "  oeufs  au  beurre  noir.^' 

Eggs  broken  gently  over  very  thin  shavings  of  cheese, 
(which  have  been  placed  in  melted  butter  in  an  omelette- 
pan  over  the  fire)  and  allowed  to  set,  are  called  "  oeufsau 
frowiage'" :  they  should  be  dusted  with  pepper,  and  salt 
before  serving. 

I  have  frequently  mentioned  "  buttered-eggs"*  in  con- 
nection with  fish,  vegetable  cookery,  and  toasts.  By  some, 
the  dish  is  called  "  scrambled  eggs,"  which  is  perhaps  the 
more  accurate  title,  being  a  translation  of  the  French 
"  cenfs  hrouilles,"  the  name  given  to  it  by  our  "  lively 
neighbours."  Do  not  forget  the  many  ways  in  which  you 
may  serve  this  composition,  and  proceed  to  make  it  thus  : — 

*  The  "  rumlled  eggs"  of  Ramasamj. 


23G  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Break  three  eggs  into  a  bowl  with  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
a  table-spoonful  of  cream  or  of  milk,  and  a  dust  of  pepper  : 
mix  them  well :  melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
in  your  07?ieZef^e-pan  :  pour  in  your  mixture,  stir  it  about 
unceasingly  until  it  is  lightly  set,  and  turn  it  out.  Tomato 
pulp  may  be  mixed  with  the  eggs,  and  any  nice  meat  such 
as  ham,  tongue,  corned  beef,  game,  &c.,  may  be  minced  up, 
and  added  to  them.  The  cream  is  by  no  means  necessary^ 
neither  is  the  milk,  but  with  the  poor  eggs  of  the  Indian 
fowl,  I  think  the  assistance  they  give  is  very  perceptible. 

By  adding  grated  cheese  you  have  "  ocufs  hrouilles  au 
frotnage  :'  "asparagus  peas,"  and  truffles  arc  also  grand 
additions  recommended  by  Gouffe. 

People  who  do  not  dislike  the  flavour  of  the  onion  will 
find  their  "  buttered  eggs"  improved  if  a  few  thin  slices 
of  white  onion  be  fried  in  tlic  butter  before  the  egg  mixture 
is  poured  into  it. 

Remember  that  reufs  hrouilles  arc  served  in  France  in 
the  same  way  as  an  omelette,  i.e.,  spread  upon  a  hot  dish 
alone  or  above  a  "puree  of  vegetable.  Many  people  think 
that  the  composition  should  be  associated  with  toast,  and 
nothing  else. 

"  Q^ufs  au  jus": — Suppose  that  you  have  a  nice  break- 
fast-cupful of  gravy  saved  from  the  joint  which  was  served 
at  last  night's  dinner.  Choose  a  little  pie-dish,  and  pour 
some  of  the  gravy  into  it,  so  as  to  cover  the  bottom  well  ; 
flavour  it  with  a  little  minced  shallot,  or  any  sweet  herb, 
set  it  in  the  oven,  and  when  it  is  hot,  break  into  it  as 
many  eggs  as  will  fill  the  dish  nicely  without  crowding  ; 
shake  some  bread-crumbs  over  the  eggs,  and  some  little 
pieces  of  minced  anchovy,  or  the  remains  of  any  cold  fish  ; 
return  the  dish  to  the  oven  for  three  or  four  minutes,  so 
that  its  contents  may  partly  set ;  then  pour  the  rest  of  the 
gravy  evenly  over  the  surface,  add  another  layer  of  fine 


EGGS,  MACCARONI,  AND  CHEESE.  237 


crumbs,  and  bake  for  five  or  six  minutes.     Be  careful  not 
to  let  the  eggs  harden. 

"  (Eufs  a  la  Suisse'": — Choose  a  shallow  pie-dish,  and 
butter  it  liberally.  Pour  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish  a 
layer  of  cream  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep,  over  that  shake 
a  coating  of  well  grated  cheese  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  : 
if  wide  enough  to  hold  them  without  crowding,  slip  in  one 
by  one  as  carefully  as  you  can, — to  avoid  hreahing  a  single 
yolJc, — six  eggs ;  give  them  a  dust  of  black  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  gently  pour  a  little  more  cream  over  the  surface, 
coating  it  over  again  with  grated  cheese.  Let  the  dish 
remain  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set  without  being- 
hard, — the  time  will  depend  upon  the  state  of  the  oven, — 
brown  the  surface  by  passing  a  red  hot  iron  backwards 
and  forwards  over  it,  about  an  inch  above  the  cheese,  and 
serve.  The  cream  should  be  really  thick  and  rich,  or  the 
effect  of  the  little  entremets  will  be  "  poor  indeed."  This 
dish  may  be  added  to  by  first  placing  a  layer  of  previously 
boiled  maccaroni  in  the  pie-dish,  the  cream  being  poured 
over  it,  then  the  cheese,  and  so  on. 

"  (Eufs  au  gratin : — Butter  the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish 
previously  well  rubbed  with  shallot,  and  line  it  with  some 
maccaroni  already  boiled  in  milk,  pour  round  it  half  a  pint 
of  sauce  blonde  in  which  you  have  dissolved  some  grated 
Parmesan,  or  other  mild  well-rasped  cheese,  and  upon  that 
dispose  a  complete  layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced.  A 
finely  minced  anchovy  should  be  sprinkled  over  the  eggs 
with  pepper  and  salt  or,  better  still,  with  a  judicious  dress- 
ing of  "spiced  salt"  (q.  v.,  page  111)  for  seasoning;  and 
then  a  nice  coating  of  bread-crumbs,  and  grated  cheese 
mixed  in  equal  proportions  :  drop  a  number  of  little  bits  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  pea  over  the  surface,  and  bake  the 
dish  till  the  top  takes  a  golden  brown  tint.  Slices  of 
tomato,  drained  of  their  watery  juice,  and  with  their  seeds 
picked  out,  may  be  laid  upon  the  egg,  or  thin  slices  of 

21 


238  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Bologna  sausage  ;  and  mushrooms,  or  truffle  trimmings, 
may  be  chopped  up,  and  sprinkled  over  them  :  there  is 
ob\'iously  ample  scope  for  culinaiy  ingenuity  in  the  enrich- 
ment of  "  tvufs  au  grating 

"  OEufs  farcis"  : — Boil  six  eggs  for  half  an  hour,  take 
them  out,  and  plunge  them  into  cold  water.  When  quite 
cold,  peel  ofF  their  shells,  and,  with  a  dessei-t-knife  nibbed 
in  butter,  divide  each  egg  in  half,  slicing  a  little  piece  of 
the  rounded  ends  to  admit  of  each  half  sitting  upright 
upon  a  disli  :  now  pick  out  the  yolks,  pound  them  with 
butter  in  a  mortar,  and  proceed  to  dress  them  with  any 
tasty  trifles  at  your  command,  season  the  composition  deli- 
cately, and  fill  the  egg  cases  therewith,  trimming  the  farce 
neatly,  with  a  desseil-knife  dipped  in  melted  butter,  in  a 
convex-shape  over  each  case, — for  there  will  be  more  than 
enough  mixtui*e  to  merely  fill  each  cavity.  For  the  farce, 
you  can  use  finely  minced  olives,  capers,  anchovies,  mush- 
rooms, and  truffles  ;  veiy  finely  grated  ham,  the  bruised 
liver  of  a  chicken,  the  remains  of  a  pate  de  foie  gras,  or  a 
little  sausage  meat.  A  judicious  selection  of  two  or  three 
of  these  ingredients,  seasoned  with  "  spiced  pepper"  is 
what  you  require, — say,  one  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  farce  to 
each  half  yolk.  Having  dressed  your  cases  to  your  mind, 
fry  a  little  square  of  bread  for  each  one,  as  for  canapes 
(q.  V.)  and  place  them  thereon  :  arrange  them  on  a  flat 
silver  dish  slightly  buttered,  pour  a  little  melted  butter 
over  each  egg,  and  bake  for  five  minutes.  Some  nicely 
fried  bread-crumbs  may  be  strewn  over  the  dish  when 
going  to  table.  Eggs  may,  of  course,  be  served  in  this 
manner  very  plainly  farcis  :  a  little  minced  curled  parsley 
or  marjoram,  with  a  pounded  anchovy,  and  some  chopped 
olive,  for  instance,  would  not  be  a  bad  mixture  when  work- 
ed up  with  the  hard  yolks. 

(Eafs   farcis   are   delicious  when   served   cold,  in  which 


EGGS,  MACCARONI,  AND  CHEESE.  2o9 

form  they  should  be  sent  up  prettily  garnished  with  curled 
parsley  upon  a  flat  China  dish. 

Hard-boiled  eggs  may  be  fricasseed,  or  gently  heated 
up,  in  a  rich  sauce  like  veloute,  Espacfnole,  or  poulette  ;  and 
those  who  do  not  object  to  fried  onions,  might  do  worse 
than  concoct  a  dish  with  their  assistance  in  this  way  : — 

"  (Eufs  aux  oignons'' : — Slice  up  a  good  sized  Bombay 
onion,  and  fry  the  rings  in  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  till 
they  are  nice  and  yellow,  add  a  little  flour  to  the  butter, 
and  when  it  is  mixed,  pour  in  a  breakfast-cupful  of  cream 
or  fresh  milk  :  give  this  a  dasting  with  salt  and  "  spiced 
pepper,"  and  put  into  the  sauce  four  hard-boiled  eggs  cut 
into  slices  ;  simmer  the  sauce-pan  till  its  contents  are 
thoroughly  hot,  and  serve  garnished  with  curls  of  crisply 
fried  bacon,  alternated  with  neatly  cut  pieces  of  fried 
bread. 

If  you  stir  a  table-spoonful  of  good  curry  powder  and  a 
salt-spoonful  of  sugar  into  the  melted  butter  and  onions 
before  adding  the  flour  and  cream,  and  cut  the  eggs 
in  halves  only,  lengthwise,  the  dish  will  be  "  cenfs  cv 
Vlndienne.'' 

Jsf.B. — Plainly  poached  eggs  served  on  toast,  with  this 
curry  sauce  poured  over  them,  are  very  nice,  and  more 
digestible  than  the  hard  boiled. 

Supposing  that  you  desire  to  err  on  the  side  of  studied 
simplicity,  cut  four  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves,  trim  them 
like  "  ceufsfarcis"  to  stand  upright,  set  them  on  a  flat  silver 
dish  slightly  buttered,  and  bake  them  until  quite  hot,  then 
serve  with  a  cap  of  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  prawn  butter  (or 
any  fancy  butter  left  from  last  night's  dinner)  melting 
over  each  half  egg.     The  error  will  be  pardonable, 

"  CEufs  aux  topinamhours"  : — This  delicious  entremets 
should  be  prepared  in  this  wise  : — Choose  four  good  sized 


240  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Jerusalem  artichokes,  trim,  boil,  and  set  them  to  cool  ; 
take  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  cut  them  in  halves  ;  out 
of  the  artichokes  prepare  eight  flat  slices,  and  place  half  an 
egg  upon  each  slice  with  the  rounded  end  uppermost :  set 
them  on  a  buttered  dish,  heat  them  thoroughly  in  the  oven, 
and  just  before  serving,  pour  over  them  some  thickly 
worked  "  veloiite  an  Parmesan,''  or  some  melted  maitre 
(Thotel  butter.  A  dusting  of  "  spiced  salt"  should  be  given 
on  taking  the  eggs  from  the  oven. 

This  entremets  is  nicer  still  with  artichoke  bottoms, — the 
leafy  kind,  and  with  ceufs  farcis  instead  of  plain  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 


Maccaroxi,  and  the  numerous  varieties  of  the  Italian 
])aste  family  of  which  it  is  the  best  known  member,  should 
invariably  be  plunged  into  boiling  water  to  commence 
w  ith — no  matter  whether  you  intend  to  cook  them  in  milk, 
or  stock,  afterwards — in  order  to  rid  them  of  the  imper- 
ceptible dirt  which  clings  to  them.  Remember  that  mac- 
caroni  is  a  much  handled  comestible,  and  that  washing  it 
in  w^ater  is  not  enough.  I  adverted  to  this  when  speaking 
of  soups  (page  34),  and  described  how  the  cleansing  can 
alone  be  effected.  Besides,  maccaroni  must  not  be  wetted 
to  begin  with  by  any  liquid  not  boiling. 

Mark  these  golden  rules  : — "  Washing  maccaroni  is  use- 
less and  unnecessary,  putting  it  to  cook  in  cold  water  is  a 
blunder,  soaking  it  is  a  crime."  Treat  it  as  our  native 
cooks  do  rice, — here  let  me  yield  to  Raraasamy,  or  his 
tunnycutch  (?)  the  praise  that  either  he,  or  she,  deserves, 
— and  throw  it  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  test  it  occasion- 
ally with  a  fork,  as  soon  as  it  is  nice  and  tender,  stop  the 
boiling  by  a  dash  of  cold  water,  lift  the  vessel,  and  drain 
it  completely,  retm-ning  the  maccaroni  to  the  hot  pan. 

If   yon   want  to  cook    Italian  pastes  in  milk  or    stock. 


EGGS,  MACCARONl,  AND  CHEESE.^'  -41 

whichever  you  use  should  be  boiling  :  parboil  the  paste  in 
boiling  water  for  five  minutes  to  clean  it,  drain  it  carefully, 
and  turn  it  into  the  stock  or  milk  also  boiling  as  the  case 
may  be  to  finish  cooking. 

The  accepted  form  of  serving  maccaroni  with  English- 
men is  either  swimming  in  white  sauce  round  a  boiled 
fowl,  or  turkey,  or  in  a  pie-dish  "azi  grating  In  the 
former  fashion  it  is  generally  presented  in  such  a  flabby, 
tasteless  manner,  that  the  general  unpopularity  of  Italian 
pastes  may  be  easily  accounted  for.  The  "  au  gratin'''  is 
better  understood  perhaps,  but  even  there,  there  is  room 
for  improvement. 

"  Maccaroni  au  gratin  ;" — First  boil  the  maccaroni  as  I 
have  laid  down,  if  in  milk  or  stock,  so  much  the  better. 
Well  butter  a  pie-dish,  arrange  the  maccaroni  therein 
neatly,  give  it  a  dusting  with  black  pepper  and  salt,  pour 
round  it  a  large  cupful  of  good  sauce  blonde  (q.  v.,  page  82) 
in  which  you  have  mixed  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese  :  let 
this  run  well  in  amongst  the  bed  of  maccaroni,  and  shake 
over  the  surface  a  liberal  coating  of  grated  cheese.  Make 
this  thoroughly  hot,  in  the  oven,  brown  the  surface  of 
the  cheese  by  passing  a  hot  iron  about  half  an  inch  above 
it,  and  send  it  up. 

Maccaroni  "  au  gratin'  should  be  nice  and  moist :  you 
can  use  cream  instead  of  sauce  blonde  if  you  like,  and 
tomato  puree  may  be  introduced  in  its  composition.  A 
little  minced  fish  such  as  herring,  prawns,  lobster,  or 
anchovy,  may  be  dotted  about  amongst  the  maccaroni,  and 
with  minced  ham  and  chicken,  or  tongue  and  chicken,  you 
can  make  a  capital  home-dinner  entree,  following  in  other 
resjDCcts  the  ordinary  recipe. 

"Maccaroni  fW  J^aZieiwe"  will  be  found  in  Chapter 
XIX,  (page  189). 

''Maccaroni  o;  la  3IUanaisc,"  another  excellent  method. 


242  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

may  be  described  as  follows  : — Boil  two  ounces  of  macca- 
roni,  and  keep  it  hot  in  its  ovm  pan  after  draining.  Make 
a  breakfast-cupful  of  good  chicken  broth  flavoured  with  an 
onion,  sweet  herbs,  and  black  pepper  corns.  With  that 
make  a  nice  "  velonfe  au  fromage"  in  this  way  ; — Melt  an 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  into  it  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  flour,  mix  them  to  a  paste,  and  by  degrees  pour  in 
the  hot  chicken  broth  ;  as  this  is  thickening,  add  to  it  two 
ounces  of  grated  cheese,  or  Parmesan  from  the  bottle,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  powdered  mustard,  salt,  and  "  spiced  pep- 
per," at  discretion ;  continue  to  stir  the  sauce  until  it 
reaches  a  creamy  thickness,  when  you  can  finish  it  off  the 
fire  by  a  table-spoonful  of  cream,  or  the  yolks  of  two  raw 
eggs  beaten  separately.  Now,  stir  the  sauce  into  the  hot 
boiled  maccaroni,  and  serve  immediately. 

The  association  of  tomatoes  with  maccaroni  seems  to  be 
as  happy  as  that  of  green  peas  with  a  duckling,  egg  sauce 
with  saltfish,  or  red  currant  jelly  with  a  well  hung  saddle. 
These  vegetables  are  generally  applied  in  the  form  of 
puree,  to  achieve  which  you  must  cut  them  into  quarters, 
trim  them  from  stalk,  &c.,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  one  onion  sliced  in  rings,  a 
few  pepper  corns,  three  cloves  of  garlic,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
dried  basil,  and  a  little  salt ;  boil  till  the  quarters  are  quite 
soft,  and  then  turn  the  contents  of  the  sauce-pan  out  upon 
a  hair  sieve.  Let  the  watery  part  escape,  you  do  not  want 
it,  and  when  thus  drained,  pick  out  the  garlic,  and  pepper 
corns,  and  rub  the  vegetable  through  the  sieve  with  a 
wooden  spoon  :  the  pulp  that  comes  through, — well  pep- 
pered with  black  pepper, — must  be  heated  again  with  a 
lump  of  butter  and  a  little  flour  before  it  is  mixed  with 
the  maccaroni. 

Maccaroni  with  ^^  conserva  di  pomi  d'oro"  is  an  Italian 
delicacy.  The  conserva  is,  as  may  readily  be  supposed,  a 
regular  jam  made  by  reducing  a  good  quantity  of  the  puree 


EGGS,  MACCARONI,  AND  CHEESE.  243 

aforesaid  in  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  without 
ceasing  until  it  attains  the  consistency  of  thin  paste.  This 
well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  may  be  preserved  in 
bottles,  and  if  securely  corked,  and  waxed,  will  keep  well. 
During  their  season,  tomatoes  absolutely  rot  in  the  ground 
in  many  a  private  garden  in  this  Presidency  :  why  permit 
such  waste  ?  the  trouble  of  making  a  few  bottles  of  this 
conserve  would  be  amply  repaid  in  the  hot  weather  when 
the  plants  have  died  down.  A  spoonful  or  two  of  the 
preserve,  thinned  with  a  very  little  stock,  and  with  a  pat 
of  butter  worked  into  it,  would,  at  all  times,  be  handy  for 
dressing  maccaroni.  A  dusting  of  finely  grated  cheese 
should,  of  course,  accompany  it. 

Here  is  a  '  foreign  composition'  w^hich  I  commend  to 
the  attention  of  those  who  like  Italian  cookery  : — Mince 
a  couple  of  cloves  of  garlic,  a  shallot,  three  anchovies, 
boned  and  well  wiped  from  the  tin  oil,  and  four  olives, 
put  the  mince  into  a  small  sauce-pan  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  best  salad  oil,  boil  till  the  bits  of  garlic 
and  onion  begin  to  brown,  and  then  turn  the  mixture  into 
a  sauce-pan  containing  a  large  dish  of  hot-boiled  macca- 
roni, stir  it  well,  and  serve.  An  Italian  cook  would 
probably  put  in  half  a  dozen,  or  more,  cloves  of  garlic  :  in 
the  proportions  I  have  given,  however,  I  do  not  think  the 
taste  of  the  bulb  will  be  considered  more  2^'^ononce  than  it 
is  in  chutneys,  and  numerous  dishes  made  in  India  which 
we  eat  without  murmuring. 

Several  dishes  will  be  found  in  my  viejius  in  which  mac- 
caroni figures,  for  I  have  the  highest  opinion  of  its  merits 
in  savoury  cookery.  The  rules  I  have  given  will,  I  think, 
be  found  reliable  with  respect  to  all  kinds  of  Italian  paste, 
Lasagne,  Cannelli,  MostaccmoU,  Sfc.j  and  I  sincerely  hope 
that  what  I  have  said  may  be  the  means  of  drawing  my 
readers'  attention  to  a  comestible  which  deserves  far 
greater  consideration  than  Englishmen,  as  a  rule,  bestow 


244  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


ni^on  it.  An  inexpensive  article  of  food  which,  with  a 
little  study,  may  be  made  a  luxury,  is  surely  a  thing  that 
the  banished  lover  of  good  things  can  ill  afford  to  despise. 


I  think  I  am  right  in  saying  that  there  are  very  few 
establishments  in  India  in  which  a  day  passes  without  the 
preparation  of  kick  for  the  table.  It  is,  as  a  rule,  served 
plainly  boiled,  and  in  that  form  can  rarely  be  found  fault 
with.  Friend  Ramastimy  commits,  as  I  have  endeavoured 
on  several  occasions  to  point  out,  mistakes  of  divers  kinds, 
and  of  various  degrees  in  the  scale  of  culinary  atrocities, 
but  failure  in  the  cooking  of  rice  is  certainly  not  one  of 
them.  Having  at  our  command,  then,  a  species  of  farina- 
ceous food,  cheap,  nutritive,  of  excellent  quality,  and 
which  our  cooks  can  dress  to  perfection,  do  we  take  full 
advantage  of  the  many  opportunities  we  possess  of  develop- 
ing its  resources  ?  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  we  do  not. 
I  have  therefore  introduced  the  subject  in  close  connection 
with  maccaroni  advisedly,  for  it  will  be  seen  that  in  the 
better  treatment  of  rice,  the  laws  that  govern  the  cookery 
of  Italian  pastes  are  often  similar. 

The  boiling  of  rice  is,  as  I  have  said,  a  matter  of  no 
difficulty  to  us  in  India.  The  native  cook  thoroughly 
understands  the  process,  and  invariably,  I  m.ay  say,  sends 
an  inviting  looking  dish  to  the  table  in  which  each  grain 
appears  to  have  been  cooked  independently,  snowy  white 
in  appearance,  and  free  from  impurities  of  all  kinds.  A 
sodden  mass  of  "  stodgy"  rice  as  dressed  by  Mary  Jane  in 
England  is  a  thing  unknown  to  the  Anglo-Indian  Exile. 
There  are,  however,  some  who  may  like  to  know  how 
the  task  is  performed,  so  for  their  benefit  here  is  the 
recipe  : — 

Having  thoroughly  sifted,  and  cleansed  the  rice,  cast  it 
into  boiling  water  with  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  salt-spoonful 


EGGS,  MACCARONI,  AND  CHEESE.  245 

of  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lime.  Stir  the 
grains  as  they  are  cooking  with  a  wooden  spoon  every  now 
and  then,  and  in  about  twelve  minutes  test  them  by  taking 
of  few  grains  out  of  the  water,  and  pinching  them  between 
the  finger  and  thumb.  As  soon  as  the  grain  is  tender, 
check  the  boiling  by  a  dash  of  cold  water,  remove  the 
vessel  from  the  fire,  and  invert  it,  holding  the  rice  securely 
with  the  lid  yet  leaving  space  enough  for  the  escape  of 
the  water.  When  quite  dry,  re-invert  the  pan,  shaking 
the  well  drained  grains  of  rice  in  the  hot  vessel  in  which 
they  were  cooked.  Lastly,  cover  the  pan  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  let  it  rest  on  the  hot-plate,  or  over  a  very  low 
fire  to  complete  the  drying.  After  this,  the  rice  will  be 
ready  and  may  either  be  sent  up  as  it  is,  or  dressed  accord- 
ing to  one  of  the  following  recipes  : — 

Wiz  a  la  Napolitaine : — Empty  the  well  boiled  rice  into 
a  hot  sauce-pan  with  plenty  of  butter  :  stir  till  thoroughly 
hot  and  well  lubricated,  add  tomato  pulp  enough  to  moisten 
the  whole  nicely,  and  finish  with  finely  grated  Parmesan, 
Gruyere,  or  other  mild  dry  cheese.  Serve  piping  hot. 
When  lifted  with  the  fork,  the  grains  of  rice  should  carry 
with  them  long  strings  or  tendrils  of  melted  cheese  as  in 
the  case  of  Maccaroni  a  V  Italienne. 

Biz  a  V  Italienne : — Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  at  the  bot- 
tom of  a  sauce-pan  which  ought  to  have  been  previously 
well  rubbed  with  a  piece  of  garlic ;  shred  an  onion  the 
size  of  a  racquet  ball  very  finely  and  fry  it  in  the  butter ; 
stir  into  this,  when  of  a  golden  yellow  colour,  two  breakf  ast- 
cupf  uls  of  well  boiled  rice ;  work  it  vigorously  with  a 
wooden  spoon  while  an  assistant  shakes  into  the  pan  a 
couple  of  heaped  up  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan 
or  Gruyere  ;  garnish  the  dish  with  strips  of  anchovies,  and 
serve  it  piled  upon  a  flat  dish. 

Riz  a  la  honne  femme  : — As  the  foregoing,  but  stirring 

09 


246  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

into  the  mixture  some  finely  rasped  ham,  or  corned  beef, 
and  garnishing  with  cnrls  of  crisply  fried  bacon. 

J^iz  a  V  Indienne  : — Commence  as  laid  down  for  riz  a 
V  Italienne  using  plenty  of  good  butter.  Omit  the  tomato 
pulp,  and  instead  of  the  grated  cheese,  stir  in  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  well  made  cuny powder,  and  garnish  with  prawns 
that  have  been  tossed  in  butter  with  a  pinch  of  saffron. 

Riz  au  chou : — Boil  some  rice  as  for  the  above,  and  keep 
it  ready  in  a  dish.  Cut  up  the  heart  of  a  tender  cabbage 
(a  '  savoy,' or  'sugar-loaf,'  for  instance).  Melt  a  couple 
of  ounces  of  butter  in  a  I'oomy  stew-pan,  cast  into  it  a 
finely  slircd  Bombay  onion,  and  two  cloves  of  garlic  minced 
as  small  as  possible  :  let  the  onion  turn  yellow,  and  then 
put  in  the  shred  cabbage,  stir  it  about  for  three  minutes 
with  the  butter  and  onions,  and  then  pour  over  it  enough 
broth  or  consomme  to  keep  it  from  burning :  stew  gently 
now  until  the  cabbage  is  cooked,  then  add  the  rice  which 
should  be  vigorously  stinted  about  for  five  minutes  with 
the  cabbage.  The  dish  is  now  ready.  Turn  it  out  upon 
a  flat  dish,  and  smother  it  with  grated  cheese.  A  slice  of 
nice  bacon  may,  with  advantage,  be  cooked  with  the  cab- 
bage ;  it  should  be  cut  into  dice,  and  put  in  with  the 
butter[and  onion.  For  an  ordinary  head  of  cabbage,  three 
breakfast-cupfuls  of  rice  will  be  found  enough. 

Riz  a  la  Turque  : — In  this,  and  in  the  following  cases, 
the  rice  is  not  icliolly  boiled  beforehand.  Put  into  a  sauce- 
pan six  coffee-cupfuls  of  broth  or  consomme  into  which 
sufficient  tomato  pulp  has  been  stirred  to  slightly  thicken 
it,  flavour  this  with  salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste,  and  set 
the  sauce-pan  on  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  liquid  boils, 
cast  into  it  three  coffee-cupfuls  of  well  cleansed  raw  rice. 
Reduce  the  heat,  and  let  the  rice  stew  gently  in  the 
tomato-flavoured  gravy.  As  the  rice  cooks  it  will  absorb 
the  liquid  :  watch  it  narrowly,  and  as  soon  as  it  has  sucked 


EGGS,  MACCARONI,  AND  CHEESE.  247 

up  the  whole  of  it,  stir  into  it  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter. 
Just  before  serving,  a  dust  of  nutmeg  should  be  added, 
and  some  raisins  carefully  picked  and  cleaned  may  be 
thrown  in  as  a  garnish. 

Another  method  BjIZ  ol  la  Milanaise,  is  to  parboil  the 
rice  for  five  minutes,  and  then  to  fry  it  in  butter  with  a 
shred  onion  until  it  begins  to  take  colour.  After  that  to 
add  stock  without  tomato,  but  coloured  with  saffron. 
When  the  rice  is  cooked,  the  gravy  may  be  thickened 
with  flour,  and  the  whole  served  hot  with  grated  Parmesan. 
Some,  in  this  case,  add  the  stock  by  degrees,  allowing  the 
rice  to  drink  it  up  as  it  were.  As  this  process  is  conduct- 
ed, the  grains  gradually  distend,  and  when  ready  to 
burst  are  fit  to  serve.  No  thickened  gravy  is  served  with 
this, — the  true  risotto  of  Italy, — but  a  pat  of  butter  is 
melted  among  the  grains,  while  Parmesan  is  liberally 
dusted  over  them. 

JRiz  a  la  menagere  : — For  this  excellent  plat.,  wash  and 
blanch  six  ounces  of  rice  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes^ 
using  a  roomy  stew-pan;  cool  and  drain  it  on  a  sieve. 
Weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  streaky  bacon,  dip 
it  into  scalding  water  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  then 
cut  it  into  inch  dice.  Fry  these  in  a  stew-pan  till  they 
turn  yellow,  add  the  rice,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  broth, 
with  a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper.  Simmer  for  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  the  rice  every  now  and  then  to  prevent  its 
catching  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  IS'ow  take  it  off  the 
fire,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  tomato  puree  or  sauce.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  put  the  rice  on  a  dish.  Garnish  with 
sausages,  curls  of  fried  bacon,  croquettes  of  fish,  or  any 
savoury  mixture  you  like,  worked  into  small  shapes,  and 
fried  a  golden  yellow. 

A  little  consideration  of  these  recipes  will,  I  think,  show 
what  a  useful  article  of  food  rice  may  be  made.  In  select- 
ing a  recipe  remember  that  ra^w  rice  of  a  good  quality 


248  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

swells  to  four  times  its  original  bulk  when  boiled.  It 
therefore  requires  plenty  of  water  when  undergoing  that 
process.  Carolina  rice  takes  even  a  deeper  bath  than 
Patna.  Two  quarts  of  water  to  six  ounces  is  a  good 
proportion  for  the  latter,  and  an  extra  pint  for  the  same 
weight  of  the  former.  The  dash  of  lime  or  lemon  juice 
produces  whiteness.  The  immediate  checking  of  ebulli- 
tion as  soon  as  the  grains  are  tender  causes  that  dis- 
integration of  the  grains  which  is  a  sine  (jud  non  in  well 
boiled  rice. 

Indian  corn  (mdis)  may  be  dressed  with  tomato  pulp 
and  grated  cheese  in  the  style  of  maccaroni  d  ritalienne, 
or  riz  (I  Id  Napolitaiiie. 


The  "fondue,"  or  "cheese  son£ic,"  is  the  dish  par  excel- 
lence of  which,  when  successfully  made,  the  good  cook  has 
just  cause  to  be  proud.  It  requires  the  most  delicate 
management,  and  an  atom  will  ruin  the  undertaking,  for 
with  all  sou^les,  to  fall  short  of  perfection  means  failure. 
Practice  and  experience  go  a  long  way  towards  turning 
out  this  piece  de  residance  satisfactorily,  it  is  nevertheless 
one  of  those  things  in  which  the  best  hand  may  occasion- 
ally err ;  so,  for  a  dinner  party,  beware  of  placing  too 
great  confidence  in  it,  have  another  dish  ready  to  go  round 
in  case  the  fondue  fail  to  "  come  off,"  and  do  not  enter  it  in 
your  menu.  Here  is  the  best  recipe  I  ever  read  for  this 
dish  : — ■ 

"  Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  an  enamelled  sauce-pan, 
and  stir  into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  flour.  When  the  two 
are  well  amalgamated,  put  in  a  breakfast-cupful  of  hot 
milk,  and  about  three  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Stir  the  mixture  on  a  very  slow  fire  till  it  assumes  the 
appearance  of  thick  cream,  and  beware  of  its  becoming  too 
hot,  or  boiling,  for  that  would  be  fatal.     Now,  put  in  one 


EGGS,  MACCARONI,  AND  CHEESE.  249 

clove  of  garlic,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard  powder,  a  dash  of 
grated  nutmeg,  and  some  black  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  if  upon  tasting  you  find  that  it  is  required,  add  a  little 
salt.  Keep  on  stirring  the  mixture  at  a  very  moderate 
heat  for  quite  ten  minutes,  then  remove  the  garlic,  take 
the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire,  stirring  occasionally  till  the 
contents  are  nearly  cold,  then  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
previously  beaten  up  with  a  table-spoonful  of  milk,  and 
well  strained ;  mix  well ;  lastly,  incorporate  swiftly  with 
the  mixture  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth, 
pour  this  into  a  deep  round  tin,  and  put  it  into  the  oven 
which  must  not  be  too  hot.  From  twenty  to  thirty  minutes 
baking  will  make  the  fondue  ready  for  the  table,  to  which 
it  must  be  quickly  sent,  in  its  tin,  with  a  napkin  folded 
round  it."— (G.  C.) 

If  the  early  stage  of  preparing  the  fondue  mixture  were 
conducted  in  the  bain-mar ie-psnij  there  would  be  no  risk 
of  overheating:  it. 

A  simpler  recipe  by  the  same  author  runs  as  follows  : — 
Make  a  thickish  paste  in  a  sauce-pan  with  milk  and  flour, 
taking  care  that  it  is  quite  smooth  :  add  to,  and  thoroughly 
mix  with  it  as  much  grated  cheese  as  you  have  used  flour, 
and  a  little  over,  a  small  quantity  of  salt,  a  little  flour  of 
mustard,  and  some  pepper.  Beat  up,  if  you  have  used  as 
much  as  a  pint  of  milk  for  the  paste,  three  or  four  eggs. 
Incorporate  them  with  the  paste,  then  fill  a  tin,  or  a 
number  of  small  cases  with  it,  bake  a  nice  brown  colour, 
and  serve. 

Brillat  Savarin  made  a  great  fuss  about  his  ^^ fondue'' 
but  the  dish  he  concocted  was  simply  "  oeufs  hrouilUs  ait 
fromage.'^     The  modern  ^^  fondue"  must  be  baked. 

"  Bainequins,"  or  little  fondues  of  cheese,  are  invariably 
popular.  They  are  not  hard  to  make  :  I  choose  a  simple 
recipe  which  runs  ;_thuB  : — Put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a 


2o0  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

roomy  sance-pan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  a  dust  of  black  pepper ;  boil  it,  and  add  two 
ounces  of  flour.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  four  minutes,  and 
then  m.ix  with  it  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan,  and  two 
eggs,  one  after  the  other.  Put  the  paste  thus  formed  on 
a  buttered-baking  sheet  in  lumps  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg^ 
flatten  them  slightly,  brush  them  over  with  an  egg,  bake 
in  the  oven,  and  serve  on  a  napkin  very  hot. 

"  Ramequins  en  caisses'' : — Take  two  ounces  of  mild 
grated  cheese,  and  two  ounces  of  white  bread-crumbs  ; 
soak  the  crumbs  in  milk,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar 
with  the  cheese,  and  a  little  butter,  till  the  whole  is  well 
mixed  ;  now  season  the  mixture  with  pepper  and  salt,  add- 
ing a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard  powder,  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs.  Finally  beat  up  the  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
mingle  it  with  the  mixture,  and  fill  your  paper  cases,  which 
should  be  well  buttered  to  prevent  their  burning  outside,  or 
*'  catching"  the  fondue  within  :  bake  them  from  ten  minutes 
to  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  serve  them  as  soon  as  they 
have  raised  their  heads,  and  have  slightly  taken  colour. 

Beignets  a  la  Pignatelli : — Put  one  pint  of  water  in 
a  stew-pan  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  boil,  and  add  four  and  a  half 
ounces  of  flour,  and  one  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan.  Stir 
over  the  fire  for  three  minutes,  then  add  sufficient  eggs  to 
turn  the  mixture  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  to  the  paste  one 
ounce  of  lean  cooked  ham  finely  chopped.  When  mixed, 
form  the  paste  into  fritters,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  fat. 

"  Beignets  sov;QUs  au  Parmesan''  will  be  found  elsewhere, 
and  several  dishes  demanding  cheese  amongst  the  menus. 

N.B. — The  best  flour  for  fondues  and  souffles  is  potato 
flour,  a  recipe  for  which  will  be  found  in  the  menus. 
China  souffle  cases  are  nicer  than  paper  ones. 


'•C4is>^ 


» 

/Votes  on  the  Curing  of  Meat 

1^  different  occasions  in  this  work  I  have  spoken  of 
home-cured  tongues,  I  now  take  the  opportunity 
of  jotting  down  a  recipe  for  that  useful  operation, 
and  of  adding  a  few  remarks  upon  salt  meat  which  I 
think  will  be  found  useful. 

The  general  rules  of  this  branch  of  kitchen  work  may- 
be given  as  follows  : — 

For  salting  purposes  you  should  procure  a  wooden  tub 
sufficiently  large  to  hold  a  hump,  a  brisket  of  beef,  or  a 
fair  sized  leg  of  mutton. 

You  cannot  commence  operations  too  soon  in  this  cli- 
mate ;  the  fresher  the  meat  for  pickling,  the  better. 

Rub  the  meat,  after  having  cleaned  and  carefully 
wiped  it,  with  salt,  &c.,  at  once,  and  take  great  pains  that 
no  part  is  omitted :  all  indentations,  and  holes  caused  by 
skewers,  should  be  scrupulously  salted. 

If  you  keep  the  meat  in  brine,  see  that  it  is  frequently 
turned,  and  basted. 

A  common  syringe  is  a  capital  thing  to  use  for  salting 
work, — especially  for  large  joints, — squirt  the  brine  all 
over  the  meat,  penetrating  all  cavities  and  chinks, 

A  good  pickle  brine    need  not  be  wasted  :    after   you 


252  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

have  cured  one  joint,  boil  the  liquid  up  again,  skimming 
off  the  scum,  add  a  little  saltpetre,  salt,  &c.,  and  it  will 
be  fit  to  receive  another  piece  of  meat. 

Let  us  now  proceed  to  cure  a  tongue  of  from  three  to 
four  pounds  weight.  For  which  the  following  ingredients 
must  be  prepared  : — 

Best  bazar  salt  \\    lb. 

Saltpetre  1      oz. 

Bay-salt  (Ind-oopoo) 1       ,, 

Spiced  pepper 1       ,, 

Moist  sugar 5       ,, 

The  juice  of  three  limes  and  a  sherry-glass  of  good 
vinegar ;  or,  if  no  limes  be  procurable,  two  glasses  of 
vinegar. 

First,  rub  the  tongue — after  cleansing  and  wiping  it 
thoroughly — with  the  bazar  salt  and  "  spiced  pepper  :" 
the  operation  will  expend  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
the  former.  When  satisfactorily  salted,  put  the  tongue 
aside,  and  let  it  drain  for  the  rest  of  the  day  to  get  rid  of 
any  blood  that  it  may  still  contain. 

After  rubbing  in  the  salt,  proceed  to  make  the  brine  as 
follows : — Take  a  roomy  enamelled  sauce-pan  and  put  in- 
to it  the  remaining  bazar  salt  (about  a  pound)  the  bay- 
salt,  saltpetre,  the  lime  juice,  and  vinegar,  and  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  cold  water.  Boil  these  over  a  low  fire,  removing 
all  scum  as  it  rises,  when  clear  of  scum  and  well  boiled, 
the  liquor  may  be  set  to  get  cold. 

Make  a  separate  syrup  with  the  sugar,  diluting  it  with 
water  in  a  small  sauce-pan,  and  heating  it  gently  till  free 
from  scum  and  smooth,  then  let  it  get  cold. 

When  the  salt  liquor  and  syrup  are  cold,  they  should 
be  amalgamated,  the  work  being  done  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  the  brine  being  then  completed  should  be  poured  into 
the  tub. 


NOTES  ON  THE  CURING  OF  MEAT.  253 

The  tongue,  having  been  drained  for  six  or  eight  hours, 
should  be  placed  in  the  brine  in  the  evening,  where  it 
ought  to  remain  for  a  couple  of  days,  being  frequently 
turned  over  and  basted  during  that  period. 

On  the  evening  of  the  second  day's  soaking,  the  tongue 
must  be  drained  from  the  brine,  and  then  hung  to  dry  in 
the  smoke  of  the  kitchen  fire  for  a  couple  of  days,  after 
which  it  may  be  considered  fit  to  use.  Wrap  it  in  paper 
during  the  smoking  stage,  and  soak  it  a  little  before  cook- 
ing in  cold  water. 

The  above  process  can,  of  course,  be  depended  upon  for 
preserving  tongues  for  much  longer  periods.  I  can  recom- 
mend it  to  sportsmen  who,  after  killing  deer  or  bison  in 
the  jungle,  hardly  know  what  to  do  with  the  good  meat 
thrown  upon  their  hands.  A  brine  tub  for  tongues  and 
humps  would  not  seriously  increase  their  impedimenta, 
and  a  moderately  quick  servant  could  soon  master  the 
secret  of  curing.  Artificial  smoking  can  easily  be  manag- 
ed out  in  camp,  and  the  ingredients  I  have  named  can  be 
carried  out  of  cantonment  without  much  trouble.  Never 
mind  if  a  tongue  seem  to  shrivel  up  after  the  smoking 
stage  ;  after  the  soaking  which  it  must  receive  before 
cooking,  it  will  revive  wonderfully,  and  regain  its  original 
proportions. 

A  tongue  that  has  merely  lain  in  brine  for  a  couple  of 
days  may  be  cooked  at  once  without  smoking ;  soaking  is 
then  unnecessary  ;  but  a  well  smoked  tongue  requires 
soaking,  according  to  the  degree  of  dryness  it  may  have 
attained,  from  two  hours  upwards. 

Tongues  have  an  annoying  habit  of  curling  themselves 
round,  contracting,  that  is  to  say,  as  they  get  cold  after 
cooking.  To  combat  this  unsightliness,  and  straighten 
the  tongue,  Ramasamy  is  wont  to  thrust  a  good  thick 
wooden  skewer  straight  throngh  it  from  end  to  end,  which 

23 


254  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

he  withdraws  before  sending  the  dish  to  table,  the  conse- 
quence of  which  is  that  you  find  a  strange  ugly  cavity  in 
the  centre  of  the  tongue  which  spoils  every  slice  you  cut 
from  it.  If  you  want  to  straighten  a  tongue  properly, 
you  must  place  it  upon  a  clean  board, — the  lid  of  a  pack- 
ing case  for  instance, — in  the  position  in  which  tongues 
are  always  presented  to  you  in  England ;  pin  it  down  to 
the  board  by  driving  a  strong  steel  carving  fork  through 
the  root  end,  stretch  it  straight,  and  secure  the  tip  by  a 
sharp  skewer  also  driven  into  the  board :  support  the 
tongue  in  shape  by  weights  on  either  side,  and  over  the 
top  of  it,  and  let  it  get  cold.  When  quite  cold,  you  may 
release  it,  glaze  it,  let  the  glaze  set,  and  then  serve  the 
tongue. 

'*  Glaze*  is  not  difficult  to  achieve  if  proper  care  be 
exercised  dui*ing  its  making.  You  must  boil  down  some 
clear  strong  gravy,  like  that  laid  down  for  "  aspic  jelly," 
and  reduce  it  until  it  begins  to  thicken  sufficiently  to  coat 
the  spoon  with  which  you  are  stirring  it.  Constant  stir- 
ring is  downright  essential  to  prevent  the  glaze  sticking 
to  the  bottom  of  the  sauce-pan,  and  burning.  As  soon  as 
satisfied  with  its  consistency,  pour  it  into  a  small  jar. 
When  cold,  the  glaze  will  solidify  like  hard  jelly.  When 
required  for  use,  place  the  jar  in  which  you  have  set 
it  in  the  bain-marie  and  let  the  jelly  melt ;  then  dip  a 
brush  into  it,  and  paint  the  surface  of  the  tongue,  or 
joint,  over  thoroughly;  when  dry,  the  appearance  will  be 
that  of  a  clear  varnish.  Colour  the  gravy  beforehand 
with  caramel  according  to  the  tint  required. 

To  cure  a  hump,  brisket,  aitch-bone,  or  piece  of  the 
silver  side  of  beef,  proceed  as  recommended  for  the  tongue  ; 
you  will  probably  require  dotlble  the  quantity  of  ingre- 
dients, but  the  principles  are  the  same.  Smoking  is,  of 
course^  not  wanted,  and  the  joint  can  be  lifted  from  the 
brine  on  the  fourth  day  and  cooked  ;  scarcely  any  soaking 


NOTES  ON  THE  CURING  OF  MEAT.  255 

will  be  then  necessary.     Syringe  the  brine  well  into  the 
meat  during  the  pickling  period,  and  turn  it  frequently. 

A  "  mutton  ham"  is  a  capital  thing  for  rough  travelling 
times,  the  meat  should  be  cured  exactly  as  the  joints  of 
beef  just  spoken  of. 

"  Spiced  heef  is  an  excellent  thing  in  its  turn.  Choose 
a  nice  brisket,  or  a  fleshy  piece  of  the  flank  for  this  opera- 
tion. Remove  all  bones.  Rub  the  joint  well  with  salt, 
and  let  it  lie  in  the  brine  already  described  for  about  two 
days.  Then  spread  it  out  flat,  dry  it,  and  lay  a  coating  of 
the  following  spices  over  the  inside  (in  the  same  manner 
as  you  would  spread  jam  over  the  paste  before  making  a 
rolypoly  pudding)  : — half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an  ounce 
of  pepper  corns  (ground),  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  finely  minced  parsley,  half  one  of  marjoram, 
the  chopped  rind  of  a  nice  yellow  lime,  peeled  very  finely, 
and  a  dust  of  !N'epaul  pepper  :  roll  up  the  brisket  and  tie 
it  tightly  with  a  string.  Stew  it  patiently  until  tender  ; 
set  it,  when  done,  under  a  weight ;  when  cold,  remove  the 
string,  trim  the  joint  neatly,  glaze  it,  and  when  the  glaze 
is  dry,  the  beef  may  be  considered  ready  for  the  table.  A 
couple  of  glasses  of  Madeira  mixed  with  the  liquor  in 
which  the  beef  is  cooked  will  improve  the  flavour  greatly. 

"Pressed  heef"  should  come  to  table  in  a  rectangular 
shape  :  saltpetre  is  not  wanted  in  its  curing  as  we  do  not 
require  the  red  colour  which  is  generally  liked  in  humps, 
briskets,  &c.  Choose  a  nice  fleshy  piece  of  the  flank,  with 
fat  and  lean,  pretty  equally  balanced.  Rub  it  carefully 
with  salt,  and  "  spiced  pepper,"  and  let  it  rest  in  brine 
(without  saltpetre)  for  forty-eight  hours  :  then  drain  it 
dry,  wipe  it,  and  stew  it  gently  till  nice  and  tender. 
When  done,  set  it  on  a  dish  with  a  weight  above  it,  and 
let  it  get  quite  cold.  The  weight  must  then  be  removed, 
and  the  joint  must  be  neatly  trimmed  in  a  rectangular 


256  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

form  witli  a  sharp  knife.  Its  sui'face  having  been  glazed, 
nothing  remains  to  be  done  in  the  kitchen. 

"  Ox-head  brawn'  is  not  to  be  despised  by  dwellers  in  the 
plains  to  whom  pork  is  denied.  Skin  and  clean  an  ox- 
head,  or  purchase  one  already  skinned  :  split  it  in  two,  cut 
out  the  eyes,  break  the  bones  of  the  jaws,  remove  the 
brains,  and  let  the  whole  soak  for  an  hour  or  two  in  cold 
water.  Then  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  water  enough 
to  cover  it.  Boil  very  slowly,  and  then  add  vegetables 
and  flavouring  as  if  for  soup  ;  when  the  meat  is  quite 
tender,  and  you  can  pick  the  bones  away  from  it  easily, 
strain  the  meat  from  the  broth,  and  vegetables,  free  it 
from  every  fragment  of  bone,  and  cut  up  the  meat  whilst 
it  is  hot  and  juicy,  en  masse  rather  small,  seasoning  it  with 
salt  and  "  spiced  pepper"  whilst  doing  so.  If  you  have 
no  spiced  pepper,  mix  a  table-spoonful  of  powdered  dried 
thyme  and  marjoram  blended,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  pep- 
per, and  dust  it  freely  into  the  meat :  when  seasoned  well, 
cut  up,  and  mixed,  press  the  meat  tightly  down  in  a  round 
brawn  tin,  and  let  it  get  cold.  After  which  it  can  bo 
turned  out  whole,  and  sliced  for  breakfast  or  lunch.  The 
broth  in  which  the  meat  was  stewed  should  be  blended 
with  the  soup  stock  for  it  will  be  gelatinous  and  strong, 
the  proper  basis  in  fact  for  a  good  "  mock  turtle." 

An  excellent  "  brawn'  can  be  made  with  an  ox-head,  a 
well  cured  tongue,  and  a  thick  slice  of  bacon  cut  into  dice. 
Stew  the  ox-head  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  and  boil  the 
tongue,  cut  up  both  with  the  bacon  whilst  they  are  quite 
hot,  season  as  before  explained,  stir  the  chopped  meats 
well  together,  press  the  whole  tightly  down  in  a  brawn  tin, 
and  let  it  remain  three  or  four  hours  with  a  heavy  weight 
above  it.  When  required,  dip  the  tin  into  hot  water  to 
loosen  the  sides  of  the  brawn,  and  it  will  slip  out  fully 
formed,  and  ready  for  the  table. 

Minced  ham.   bacon  lean,  or   Bolosfna   sausasfe.   may  be 


NOTES  ON  THE  CURING  OF  MEAT.  257 

sprinkled  in  witli  the  seasoning.  Be  careful  to  cut  up 
and  work  your  brawn  together  whilst  the  meat  is  quite 
hot.  Unless  this  be  done,  the  brawn  will  not  solidify 
satisfactorily.  Turn  the  meat  into  the  tin  as  soon  as  you 
can.  Use  an  ordinary  round  cake  tin,  and  place  a  heavy 
weight  over  the  meat  to  press  it  firmly  together. 

Calves'  heads  make  delicious  brawn  when  associated 
with  ox  tongue  and  bacon,  and  judiciously  seasoned. 

For  brawn  of  pig's  head,  follow  the  rules  already  given 
for  ox-head  brawn. 


— ♦ — 
Pastry-making,  et  cetera. 

LTHOUGH  it  is  generally  admitted  that  the  clever 
pastry-cook  is,  like  the  Poet,  born,  not  made ;  or, 
in  other  words,  that  the  art  of  making  really  good 
pastry  is  a  gift,  rather  than  an  accomplishment,  there  can 
be  no  doubt  that  the  chef  of  average  capacity  is  capable 
of  improving  himself  by  studying  the  rules  which  govern 
this  branch  of  his  profession.  Raraasamy  stands  in  great 
need  of  instruction  here,  for  his  ideas  of  pastry  are,  as  a 
rule,  crude  in  the  extreme.  He  is  acquainted  apparently 
with  two  standard  compositions  alone,  which  he  distin- 
guishes by  the  terms  "  butter  crust,"  and  "  suet  crust." 
The  former  is  a  kind  of  short  bread,  the  latter  a  humble 
apology  for  pufE  paste.  His  selection  of  the  one  or  of  the 
other,  if  left  to  himself,  is  guided  by  one  law  : — "  butter 
crust"  for  sweet  things,  and  "  suet  crust"  for  savoury. 
Concerning  the  former  I  have  but  little  to  say.  In  my 
opinion  it  is  so  very  inferior  to  puff  paste,  that  I  recommend 
its  use  in  no  branch  of  cookery  whatever.  If  a  cook  be 
wholly  incapable  of  making  eatable  puff  pastry,  he  may,  of 
course,  be  permitted  to  fall  back  upon  his  "  butter  crust," 
but  I  would  never  allow  him  to  do  so  unless  quite  satisfied 
of  his  incompetence.  "  Suet  crust,"  on  the  other  hand,  is 
the  "  subject  of  my  story"  for  I  think  that  with  a  little 
careful  teaching  Ramasamy  is  capable  of  achieving  very 
fair  results  with  it. 


PASTRY-MAKING,  ET  CETERA.  259 

Kow,  I  think  that  it  would  be  a  mere  waste  of  time  to 
jot  down  a  great  number  of  recipes  for  pastry.  The  ordi- 
nary domestic  cookery  book  generally  contains  a  dozen  or 
more  of  them  which  tend,  I  think,  to  confuse  rather  than 
to  instruct  the  student.  In  endeavouring  to  improve  our 
native  cooks,  we  should  certainly  cast  aside  all  complica- 
tion, and  reduce  our  instruction  to  the  simplest  formulae. 
So,  let  us  do  our  best  to  confine  their  attention  to  three 
compositions  as  follows  : — 

(a) puff  paste. 

(h) pie-crust. 

(c) raised  pie-crust. 

The  first  to  be  used  for  the  vol-au-vent,  all  patties,  bou" 
chees,  fruit  tarts,  tartlets,  puffs,  cheese  cakes,  mince  pies, 
&c.,  &G. 

The  second  for  all  savoury  pies  made  in  the  ordinary 
pie-dish,  such  as  pigeon  pie,  chicken  and  beef  steak  pie, 
&c.,  &c. 

The  third  for  savoury  pies  in  raised  crust,  like  the  well- 
known  pork  pie,  veal  and  ham  pie,  &c.,  of  the  English 
restaurant. 

If  a  cook  can  present  a  good  sample  of  each  of  these 
pastes,  he  need  not  bother  his  head  with  varieties.  Let  us 
then  run  through  the  '  a.  b.  c'  of  pastry-making,  and  make 
sure  that  our  chef  thoroughly  understands  the  elementary 
part  of  this  branch  of  his  work  : — 

First,  if  you  can  possibly  get  one,  you  should  use  a 
marble  pastry  slab.  As  I  said  at  page  72,  in  Madras  the 
chief  difl&culty  the  pastry-maker  has  to  contend  against  is 
the  high  temperature  :  a  jugful  of  iced  water  poured  slowly 
over  the  surface  of  the  slab  (since  marble  retains  cold  far 
more  readily  than  wood)  is  his  surest  safeguard.  In  fact, 
without  iced  water  at  his  elbow,  the  cook  can  scarcely 
hope  to  turn  out  really  light  puff  pastry.     I  have  heard  a 


260  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

good  many  people  speak  in  high  praise  of  the  pastry  that 
they  have  eaten  at  certain  hostelries  on  the  Neilgherries, 
and  express  wonder  that  similarly  excellent  feuilletage  is 
never  placed  before  them  here.  Climate  has  a  great  deal 
to  say  to  this,  and  without  wishing  to  depreciate  the  ta- 
lent of  the  Coonoor  or  Ooty  pdtissiers,  we  must  remember 
the  advantages  that  they  enjoy  in  the  matter  of  tempera- 
ture. 

The  next  golden  rule  is  that  which  enjoins  scrupulous 
cleanliness.  Everything  connected  with  this  department 
must  be  as  bright  and  clean  as  possible. 

A  third  law,  which  I  think  our  cooks  rarely  obey,  is  the 
one  that  demands  the  careful  weighing  of  ingredients. 
Ramasamy  converses  about  "  cups"  of  butter  and  "  table- 
spoonfuls"  of  flour.  I  do  not  think  that  he  is  nearly 
particular  enough  with  regard  to  the  accurate  weight  of 
the  things  he  uses.  Carelessness  in  this  matter  must 
obviously  be  the  precui'sor  of  failure. 

The  mere  manipulation  of  pastry  is,  as  I  said  before,  a 
gift ;  still,  every  cook  should  remember  that  the  less  ho 
thumps  and  mauls  the  dough  the  lighter  it  will  be,  and 
that  the  quicker  the  work  is  done  the  better. 

The  pastry-maker  should  wash  his  hands  before  going 
to  work  in  very  hot  water,  and  plunge  them  into  iced 
water  afterwards,  drying  them  well  before  proceeding  to 
business.  The  frequent  use  of  iced  water  to  cool  the 
hands  while  working  will  contribute  to  the  success  of  the 
undertaking. 

It  is  here  essential  to  observe  that  a  little  practice  will 
enable  the  cook  to  mix  his  dough,  in  the  first  instance  with 
two  strong  wooden  spoons,  or  with  a  wedgewood  mortar 
pestle  and  one  spoon.  This  I  consider  a  matter  of  material 
consequence.  Setting  aside  all  hypercritical  notions  of 
cleanliness,  it  stands  to  reason  that  the  less  the  paste  is 


PASTRY-MAKING,  ET  CETERA.  261 

touched  by  the  warm  human  hand,  the  better  and  lighter 
it  will  prove.  Similarly,  therefore,  let  the  turns  in  the 
rolling-out  stage  be  done  with  two  spoons.  If  the  mixing 
stage  were  carried  out  in  a  roomy  enamelled  iron  pan,  or 
bowl,  set  in  ice,  the  spoon  process  could  be  easily  managed. 

Pastry  should  be  made,  if  possible,  in  the  morning  before 
the  real  heat  of  the  day  has  set  in.  Fruit  tarts  are  far 
nicer  cold  than  hot,  why  not  make  them  early  then  ?  Or 
if  you  like  them  served  hot,  why  not  re-heat  them  in  the 
oven  at  the  time  they  are  required  ?  For  patties,  bouchees, 
timhales,  tartlets,  cheese-cakes,  &c.,  this  course  is  strongly 
to  be  advocated.  The  pastry  cases  ought  to  be  made  early, 
baked  at  once  and  put  away ;  in  the  evening  they  should 
be  filled  with  the  salpicon,  pitrSe,  jam,  cheese-cake  mixture, 
or  confiture^  be  re-heated  in  the  oven,  and  sent  to  table. 

A  most  important  feature  in  pastry  is  its  baking.  Too 
slack,  or  too  fierce  an  oven,  will  destroy  all  the  careful 
work  I  have  just  described.  A  good  hot  oven  is  required, 
sufficiently  brisk  to  raise  the  pastry,  yet  not  severe  enough 
to  burn  or  even  scorch  it.  Ramasamy  is  inclined  to  err 
on  the  side  of  extreme  heat,  which,  I  think,  accounts  for 
those  harsh,  talc-like  slabs  of  pale  brown  crust,  piled  up 
one  on  top  of  the  other,  which  so  many  of  us  are  forced  to 
accept  as  "  puff-paste."  The  higher  that  these  layers  of 
talc  have  "  done  raise  it  uff,"  the  more  successful  does 
Ramasamy  consider  himself .  "  Erroneous  vassal  !"  Puff- 
pastry  cannot  be  too  white,  or  too  volatile  ;  so  fragile 
indeed  should  it  be  that  it  ought  e'en  to  crumble  to  atoms 
if  stricken  with  a  feather. 

And  now  for  a  few  words  touching  ingredients  : — 

The  flour  used  should  be  the  best  imported,  and  in  a 
moist  climate,  such  as  this,  it  is  a  sine  qua  non  that  it 
should  be  dried  in  the  oven  and  sifted  to  begin  with,  for 
the  presence  of  damp  in  flour  ruins  pastry. 

24 


262  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


Oue  of  the  chief  causes  of  failure  in  attaininsr  lis^ht 
crust  is  tlie  moisture  and  oiliness  of  our  butter.  All 
Madras-made  butter  is  full  of  water,  and  even  English 
butter  requires  close  pressure  before  the  pastrj-cook  dare 
use  it.  Butter  for  this  pui'pose  should  be  firm,  not  frozen 
like  a  stone,  but  quite  hard  enough  to  cut  into  pieces.  A 
judicious  use  of  ice  for  this  ingredient  is  therefore  unavoid- 
ble  if  you  desire  to  use  it  with  success  in  pastry.  It  is  on 
this  account,  I  fancy,  that  Ramasamy  has  discovered  that 
suet  makes  lighter  puff  paste  in  this  climate  than  butter  : 
it  is  firm,  dry,  and  capable  of  being  chopped  up  and 
strewn  over  the  dough  ;  Avhereas,  in  nineteen  cases  out  of 
twenty,  the  butter  he  uses  is  in  a  semi-state  of  liquefac- 
tion, and  utterly  unfit  to  mix  with  the  flour. 

If,  then,  you  cannot  command  a  good  supply  of  excel- 
lent butter,  and  imdertake  that  it  shall  be  iced  as  I  have 
described,  you  will  find  it  better  far,  as  a  rule,  to  use 
clarified  beef  suet  for  all  ordinary  pastry.  Proceed  in  this 
way  :  procure  as  much  good,  pale  yellow,  fresh  suet  from  a 
sirloin  of  beef  (that  surrounding  the  kidney  is  the  best),  and 
cut  it  into  pieces.  Place  a  large  sauce-pan  or  stew-pan  on 
the  fire,  and  fill  it  nearly  full  of  water ;  when  the  water 
boils,  throw  in  the  fat.  By  degrees  it  will  melt,  the  skin 
and  impure  fragments  will  sink,  and  a  rich  oil  will  float 
upon  the  surface  of  the  water,  which  should  be  kept  at  a 
simmering  pitch.  When  satisfied  that  the  whole  of  the  fat 
has  melted,  suspend  operations,  take  the  pan  from  the  fire, 
and  let  it  get  cold  ;  when  cold,  the  clarified  fat  will  become 
congealed  upon  the  sui'face  of  the  water.  Now,  take  it  oJQE 
in  flakes,  drain  every  drop  of  water  from  it,  and  put  it 
into  a  clean  sauce-pan  ;  melt  it  again,  and  strain  it  through 
a  piece  of  muslin  into  an  earthenware  bowl.  The  fat  will 
again  consolidate, — in  a  firm,  pale  yellow  cake,  as  it  were, — 
far  harder  than  butter,  though  quite  as  sweet  and  clean, 
and    the  very  thing  you    want  for  ordinary  pastry  and 


PASTRY-MAKING,   ET  CETERA.  263 

delicate  saute  work.  Suet  thus  clarified  will  keep  perfect- 
ly good  a  long  time,  and  is  infinitely  cleaner  and  nicer 
than  raw  suet  freshly  handled  by  the  butcher,  and  good- 
ness knows  by  how  many  other  people. 

Keep  the  bowl  of  suet  in  a  cool  place  ;  in  the  ice-box  if 
possible. 

The  fat  that  is  skimmed  from  the  surface  of  the  soup- 
kettle  is  just  as  valuable,  for  it  is  generally  the  melted 
marroiv  from  the  broken  shin :  you  do  not  get  much  of  it, 
I  know,  probably  a  breakfast-cupful,  at  the  outside,  but 
it  is  quite  first-rate,  and  the  favourite  frying  medium  of 
the  great  Careme.  The  fat  from  the  under-cut  of  a  cold 
roast  sirloin  can  be  made  use  of  exactly  in  the  same  way 
as  the  raw  suet :  clarify  it  according  to  the  rules  already 
given,  and  pour  it  into  an  earthenware  bowl. 

Lard  is  imported  here  during  the  colder  months  of  the 
year ;  it  requires  the  assistance  of  ice  to  regain  its  original 
firmness  of  character,  and  then,  if  carefully  used,  it 
affords  an  excellent  ingredient  wherewith  to  compose  a 
good  light  pie-crust. 

As  I  said  before,  the  water  used  in  pastry-making 
should  certainly  be  slightly  iced :  it  need  not  be  as  cold 
as  that  we  like  to  drink,  but  it  should  be  decidedly  cold 
to  the  touch. 

For  PUFF  PASTE  the  following  directions  may,  I  think, 
be  depended  upon  : — 

Having  the  following  ingredients  ready : — a  bowl  of 
cold,  well  clarified  suet,  some  dry  well-sifted  flour,  a  good 
ripe  lime,  some  salt,  and  a  jug  of  iced  water,  proceed  as 
follows  : — weigh  a  pound  of  flour,  and  turn  it  out  upon 
your  cold  marble  slab,  make  a  hollow  in  its  centre,  and 
fill  it  with  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
the  cold  water ;  mix  the   flour  gradually   with  the   water, 


264  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

and  when  this  is  done,  and  the  paste  half  mixed,  sprinkle 
over  it  another  quarter  pint  of  water  in  which  the  lime 
has  been  squeezed.  Mix  it  all  now  thoroughly,  until  it 
ceases  to  adhere  to  the  slab,  and  pat  it  into  a  round  ball. 
Now  take  one  pound  weight  of  the  clarified  suet,  cut  it 
up  into  dice,  and  flatten  out  the  ball  of  paste  to  a  thick- 
ness of  about  two  inches,  spreading  the  suet  evenly  over 
its  surface ;  then  fold  the  four  sides  of  the  paste  to  the 
centre  enclosing  the  suet,  and  forming  a  square  piece. 
Roll  this  evenly  out  a  yard  long,  then  fold  over  one-third 
of  the  length  towards  the  centre,  and  fold  the  other  third 
over  it.  This  folding  in  three  is  called  by  cooks  "  giving 
the  paste  one  tui^n."  Be  careful  that  none  of  the  suet 
breaks  through  the  edges  of  the  paste  as  you  roll  it  out. 
Having  folded  up  the  paste,  let  it  rest  for  ten  minutes  in 
the  ice-box,  or  on  a  very  cold  slab.  Then  give  it  two 
turns,  rest  ten  minutes,  then  two  turns  more, — five  rolls 
out  in  all, — lastly,  gather  the  paste  into  a  lump,  and  roll 
it  according  to  your  requirements. 

For  patties,  vols-au-veiif,  ^'c,  seven  turns  are  recom- 
mended by  some  authors.  Keep  the  flour  dredger  at  your 
elbow,  and  flour  the  rolling-pin  well  before  each  turn. 
The  sooner  the  paste  is  used  when  it  has  been  completed 
the  better. 

If  you  have  a  little  good  iced  butter,  you  may  alter  the 
above  proportions  as  follows  : — three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  suet,  and  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  The  yolks 
of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  strained  may  be  mixed  with 
the  water. 

Baking  powder  may  be  used  advantageously  in  pastry- 
making  :  here  is  Yeatman  &  Co.'s  recipe  for  puff  paste 
made  in  connection  with  their  powder  : — 

Measure  three  breakfast-cupfuls  of  flour,  carefully  sifted, 
and  two  cupfuls  of  butter.     Choose  a  cool  place  to  work 


PASTRY-MAKING,   ET  CETERA.  265 

in,  see  that  the  flour  is  good  and  dry,  the  butter  firm  and 
free  from  moisture,  and  fill  two  shallow  baking-tins  with 
broken  ice.  Put  the  flour  on  a  cool  sla,b,  mixing  into  it  a 
heaped  up  tea-spoonful  of  the  baking  powder  ;  when  mixed, 
form  the  flour  in  a,  ring,  as  it  were,  and  in  the  centre 
throw  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  add 
a  little  iced  water,  and  gradually  work  the  flour  into  it 
from  the  inside  of  the  ring,  sprinkling  additional  water 
as  you  require  it — about  one  breakfast- cupful  altogether — 
until  you  have  a  smooth,  fine  dough,  free  from  all  sticki- 
ness. Pat  this  into  a  lump,  and  put  it  in  the  ice-box  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  roll  it  out  about  the  size  of  a 
dinner  plate  :  put  the  butter  upon  it,  and  wrap  the  edges 
of  the  dough  over  it,  carefiilly  covering  it :  now  turn  it 
upside  down,  and  roll  it  out  very  thin ;  reverse  it  again, 
and  fold  it  in  three.  Place  it  after  this  on  a  baking-sheet 
over  one  of  the  pans  of  broken  ice,  and  put  the  other  pan 
of  ice  iipon  it.  Repeat  this  cooling  process  between  each 
double  turn,  and  use  as  soon  as  possible  when  five  turns 
have  been  completed. 

Although  composed  for  English  and  American  kitchens, 
observe  the  use  of  ice  advocated  in  this  receipt.  Instead 
of  the  butter  I  would  try  the  clarified  beef  suet,  that  is  to 
say,  if  I  were  unable  to  procure  butter  of  undeniable 
quality,  firm,  cold,  and  quite  free  from  water. 

The  next  description  of  pastry  that  demands  our  atten- 
tion is  that  which  should  be  used  for  savoury  pies,  to 
^it : — PIE -CRUST.  In  this,  I  think,  Ramasamy  needs  care- 
ful instruction.  He  makes  no  difference  between  his  sa- 
voury pie  "  suet-crust,"  and  that  which  he  sends  up  under 
the  name  of  a  vol-au-vent.  His  chief  aim  being  a  pie- 
covering,  raised  an  inch  and  a  half  or  two  inches  high, 
composed  of  the  harsh,  talc-like  layers  to  which  I  have 
already  alluded.  I  need  hardly  point  out  that  this  is  an 
entirely  erroneous  impression.     Think  of  the  cold  pigeon- 


266  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


pie  at  home,  and  you  will  remember  no  'puff  pastry  :  your 
mind's  eye  will  rather  picture  a  close  crust  about  half,  or 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  glazed  externally,  with 
c^gt  and  with  the  feet  of  the  birds  peeping'  invitingly  from 
the  centre  :  a  firm  plain  paste  that  you  cut  out  in  a  whole 
piece  without  its  breaking  into  fragments ;  pale  brown 
and  crusty  externally,  and  soft  and  white  internally,  with 
bits  of  jelly  adhering  to  it.  Well,  that  is  the  kind  of 
crust  that  I  am  so  anxious  to  impart  to  Ramasamy,  for 
which  the  following  recipe  is,  I  think,  reliable : — 

Put  one  pound  of  well-dried  and  sifted  flour  on  the  slab, 
or  in  an  enamelled  basin  ;  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  and 
work  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cold  clarified  suet 
cut  into  pieces,  adding  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  When  mix- 
ed, sprinkle  over  it  as  much  iced  water  as  will  bind  it 
thoroughly  :  dredge  some  flour  over  the  slab,  and  roll  the 
paste  out  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  up  another  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  clarified  suet,  and  dot  it  over  the  surface  of 
the  paste,  fold  the  paste  over  it,  and  roll  it  out  again  very 
thin  ;  fold  it  in  three,  set  it  in  the  ice-box  for  ten  minutes, 
give  it  three  more  turns,  and  then  roll  it  out  half  an  inch 
thick  when  it  may  be  cut  to  cover  the  pie. 

A  French  savoury  pie-crust  is  made  in  this  way  : — 
Empty  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  and  rub  lightly  into 
it  half  a  pound  of  clarified  suet ;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  and  complete  the  dough  by  adding  to  it  by  degrees  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  water  in  which  two  eggs  have  been 
beaten.  Roll  the  paste  out,  give  it  two  or  three  turns, 
and  finish  it  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt. 

A  plainer  crust  can  be  made  by  reducing  the  suet,  and  a 
richer  and  more  volatile  one  by  adding  a  couple  of  ounces 
or  so  of  iced  butter. 

Raised  pie-crust,  or  number  three,  is  perhaps  less 
understood  by  Ramasamy  than  the  other  kinds  that  1  have 


PASTRY-MAKING,  ET  CETERA.  267 

mentioned.  It  is  a  thing  that  people  rarely  attempt  in 
this  country  under  an  impression,  I  fancy,  that  it  is  too 
difficult  for  the  Indian  chef.  Yet,  as  a  matter-of-fact, 
nothing  can  be  more  simple.  Pies  of  this  kind  are  inex- 
pensive, and  whether  for  breakfast,  the  luncheon  table,  or 
the  pic-nic  basket,  cannot  be  too  highly  commended.  To 
be  certain  of  success  it  is  advisable  to  procure  a  raised  pie- 
tin,  which  shoidd  have  movable  sides  secured  by  a  pin  at 
either  end  so  that  the  pie  may  be  easily  released  when 
baked.  A  locally  made  tin  of  the  following  size  will,  in 
the  absence  of  a  proper  utensil,  be  found  useful : — Oval 
in  shape,  six  inches  and  a  half  long  and  five  inches  across 
(top  measurement),  five  and  a  half  inches  long,  and  four 
inches  across  (bottom  measurement)  :  a  movable  bottom 
to  fit  the  latter  :  depth  of  tin  three  and  a  half  inches.  The 
bazar  tin-man  will  turn  you  out  one  of  these  tins  in  a  few 
hours  for  a  trifling  sum.  Made  in  a  mould  of  this  shape, 
the  pie  is,  of  course,  larger  at  the  top  than  at  the  bottom, 
with  sloping  sides.  Having  procured  a  tin,  you  should 
make  the  following  short  "  pork-pie  crust"  to  fit  it : — 

Put  half  a  pint  of  water  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  let  it  boil ; 
when  boiling,  stir  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified 
suet,  and  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter  with  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt.  Stir  till  the  fat  has  melted,  and  then  pour  the  con- 
tents of  the  sauce-pan,  boiling  hot,  into  a  bowl  containing 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  well-dried  flour.  Work  the  mixture 
to  a  stiff  paste  adding  a  little  water,  if  necessary,  and  turn 
it  out  upon  a  cold  pastry  slab ;  roll  it  out  three-quarters 
of  cin  inch  thick,  as  evenly  and  level  as  possible,  and  let 
it  get  quite  cold.  Now,  butter  the  tin,  and  cut  an  oval 
piece  of  paste  a  little  larger  than  the  bottom  of  it  so  that 
the  edges  may  turn  up,  and  be  more  readily  fixed  to  the 
wall,  or  side-paste ;  next  cut  out  a  strip  three  and  a  half 
inches  wide,  and  sufficiently  long  to  go  round  the  inside 
of  the  wall  of  the  tin ;  fix  the  bottom  of  the  wall  to  the 


268         CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

oval  piece  at  the  bottom  -with  white  of  Qgg^  pinching  them 
closely  together ;  then  fill  the  pie  with  whatever  meat 
you  have  prepared,  covering  it  over  with  an  oval  cap,  cnt 
like  the  bottom  piece,  cementing  it  with  white  of  Qggi  and 
pinching  it  tightly  to  the  top  of  the  wall :  brush  the  pie 
over  with  white  of  egg  and  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven.  Little 
pies  require  a  slightly  faster  oven  than  large  ones,  but  all 
raised  pies  should  be  slowly  baked. 

This  receipt  for  raised  pie-crust  is  a  Leicestershire  one, 
and  will  be  found  similar  to  that  used  for  pork-pies  in  that 
county. 

Fate  brisee  crust,  as  used  by  French  cooks  for  raised 
savoury  pies,  is  composed  by  working  the  suet  and  butter 
into  the  dry  flour  before  any  liquid  is  added.  Eight  ounces 
of  iced  butter,  or  clarified  beef  suet,  should  be  allowed  for 
a  pound  of  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  sufficient  water 
to  mix  a  very  stiff  dough. 

You  can  fill  up  these  pies  in  many  ways,  here  are  a  few 
recipes  : — 

(a.)  With  mutton,  a  plain  pie  : — Choose  a  first  class  neck 
of  mutton,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  one  piece,  divide 
that  into  slices  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  them  into  squares 
as  for  a  dry  curry,  keeping  the  fat  and  lean  separate  : 
if  the  neck  be  a  lean  one,  a  few  pieces  of  nice  kidney  fat 
from  the  loin  may  be  taken  to  assist  the  pie  :  thoroughly 
season  the  meat,  when  it  is  cut  up,  with  salt,  black  pepper, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped  curled  parsley, — nothing 
else  upon  any  account.  With  this  the  pie  should  be  packed, 
as  closely  as  possible,  in  alternate  layers  of  fat  and  lean. 
Unlike  ordinary  pies,  in  this  case  you  must  not  pour  in 
any  gravy  ivith  the  meat:  the  chief  thing  is  the  close 
arrangement  of  the  meat :  if  put  in  loosely  the  outside 
pieces  will  be  dry  and  leathery.  When  satisfactorily  fill- 
ed, put  on  the  oval  cover,  cement  the  edges  with  white  of 


PASTRY-MAKING,  ET  CETERA.  2G9 

egg,  and  pinch  tliem  together  firmly,  brush  the  top  orei' 
with  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  bake  the  pie  in  a  slow  oven. 
While  baking,  jon  can  simmer  the  bones  and  trimmings 
of  the  neck,  with  a  couple  of  sheep's  feet  cleaned  and  cut 
up,  and  make  a  clear  yet  strong  broth  ;  this,  when  cold, 
should  solidify  as  jelly ;  flavour  it  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  after  the  pie  has  been  baked,  pour  a  little  of  it  through 
an  opening  in  the  top  of  the  cover.  Set  the  pie  in  the  ice- 
box, and  when  quite  cold,  serve. 

(h.)  With  pork,  when  you  can  get  it  clean-fed  as  on 
the  Hills,  the  process  is  similar  to  that  just  explained : 
choose  the  neck,  and  omit  the  parsley :  the  seasoning  for 
pork  pies  is  composed  of  black  pepper  and  salt  only,  the 
proportion  being  two-thirds  of  the  latter  to  one  of  the 
former.  Receipts  that  mention  sage,  &c.,  are  incorrect. 
Pack  the  pieces  of  meat  as  closely  as  you  can,  and  bake 
the  pie  very  slowly :  a  little  liquid  jelly  made  from 
pettitoes  and  pork  scraps  may  be  poured  in  after  the 
baking,  but  no  gravy  should  be  added  before  that  operation. 

(c.)  With  game.  If  made  with  game,  the  birds  should 
be  boned,  and  some  pieces  of  chopped  bacon  should  be 
introduced  here  and  there.  Season  with  spiced  pepper, 
and  pour  some  liquid  jelly  (made  from  the  bones,  trim- 
m.ings,  and  a  couple  of  sheep's  feet)  into  the  pie  after  it 
has  been  baked.  A  liver  and  bacon  forcemeat  (vide  page 
70)  is  also  necessary. 

For  a  specially  good  game-pie,  proceed  as  follows  : — 

Bone  two  partridges,  two  quails,  and  four  snipes,  and 
cut  out  the  back  fillets  of  a  good  hare  ;  give  the  meat  a 
dusting  of  spiced  pepper,  and  cover  it  up.  Next  make  a 
forcemeat  as  follows  : — Take  the  livers  of  the  birds  and 
that  of  the  hare,  and  mince  them  finely ;  mince  the  spare 
meat  of  the  hare,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham,  and 
throw  the  whole  of  the  mince  into  a  frying-pan,  in  which 

25 


270  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  cut  into  dice  has  been  tossed 
with  a  finely  chopped  shallot.  Work  the  mince  about  for 
ten  minutes,  then  empty  the  contents  of  the  frying-pan 
into  a  mortar,  and  pound  the  mixture  to  a  paste.  IsTow 
cut  eight  fine  truffles  into  dice  the  size  of  a  pea,  melt 
an  ounce  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  and  throw  in  the 
truffles  ;  toss  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  add  a  claret- 
glassful  of  Madeira ;  let  the  dice  boil  in  this,  and  then 
pour  them  with  the  liquor  into  a  bowl.  Yon  can  now  pack 
the  pie  as  follows  :— 

Spread  a  layer  of  liver  paste  over  the  inside  of  eacli 
bird,  put  a  spoonful  of  truffles  upon  it,  and  roll  the  bird 
up ;  cut  the  hare  into  slices,  and  treat  them  in  the  same 
way  :  next  put  a  layer  of  the  liver  paste  over  the  bottom 
of  the  pie,  dot  it  over  with  truffles,  arrange  the  rolls  of  hare 
meat  over  that,  spread  some  liver  paste  over  them,  a  few^ 
truffles,  and  some  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon :  next  aiTange  a 
layer  of  snipe,  and  continue  until  the  pie  is  tightly  filled  ; 
cover  the  topmost  layer  with  fat  bacon,  sprinkled  over 
with  marjoram  leaves,  cover  the  pie  closely  and  bake. 
When  done,  pour  into  it  a  little  very  strong  jelly  (lique- 
fied) made  of  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  game,  two 
sheep's  feet,  and  the  truffle  liquor. 

It  must  be  here  observed  that  raised  pies  should  not  be 
made  during  the  hot  weather ;  unless  eaten  immediately 
they  soon  turn  sour  ;  but  they  will  be  found  capital  on  the 
Hills,  at  Bangalore,  and  on  the  plains  during  the  cold 
season. 

Savoury  Puddings,  though  homely,  and  perhaps  hardly 
to  be  recommended  for  dinner  parties,  are,  in  their  way, 
not  to  be  despised.  The  best  paste  for  them,  I  think,  is 
one  made  as  follows  : — Chop  very  finely  six  ounces  of  clari- 
fied suet,  and  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it  as  you  mince  it. 
Mix  with  it  one  pound  of  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and 


PASTRY-MAKING,  ET  CETERA.  271 

sufficient  water  to  make  a  smooth,  pliant  paste.  Roll  it 
out,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  A  basin  is  the  best  thing 
to  use  for  the  boiling  :  rub  it  well  with  butter,  line  it  with 
the  paste  rolled  at  least  half  an  inch  thick,  close  over  the 
top  securely,  tie  the  basin  up  with  a  cloth,  and  steam  the 
pudding  slowly  for  three  hours.  To  ensure  success,  a 
pudding  cannot  be  too  slowly  boiled. 

A  really  excellent  beefsteak  pudding  can  be  made  by 
preparing  the  beef  as  laid  down  for  pies,  viz.  : — 

Cut  the  meat  into  thin  collops,  place  a  thin  slice  of  cold 
cooked  bacon  over  each  collop,  season  this  with  spiced 
pepper,  and  roll  each  collop  up.  Line  the  pudding  basin 
with  paste,  and  fill  it  with  layers  of  collops,  pour  in  among 
the  collops  a  little  strong  gravy,  close  the  paste  securely 
and  boil  for  three  houi's. 

For  BEEFSTEAK  AND  OYSTER  PUDDING,  roll  an  oystcr  inside 
each  collop.  For  beefsteak  and  kidney,  cut  the  kidney 
into  strips  and  treat  them  in  the  same  way,  rolling  slices 
of  kidney  and  bacon  inside  each  collop. 

Excellent  puddings  are  made  with  birds,  boned,  and 
rolled  up  with  a  slice  of  bacon,  and  any  nice  stuffing,  inside 
them.  Take  a  brace  of  partridges,  for  instance,  and  bone 
them,  lay  them  out  flat,  putting  a  few  thin  slices  of  cooked 
bacon  over  them,  over  that  strew  some  chopped  mush- 
rooms, their  livers  chopped,  a  little  minced  shallot,  and  a 
good  dusting  of  spiced  pepper  ;  roll  the  birds  up  and  put 
them  into  the  pudding  basin,  pour  in  a  little  rich  gravy 
made  from  their  bones,  &c.,  close  the  paste  over  them,  and 
boil  for  three  hours.  This  is  obviously  practicable  with 
any  game. 


-—- ♦■ 
A  few  nice  Pies. 

^THlhY.  in  the  liigh  art  studies  of  this  braucli  of 


V'V^  culinary  science,  the  clever  cook  finds  grand 
opportunities  of  displaying  his  skill,  he  possesses 
in  its  humbler  subjects  a  ready  method  of  practising 
economy,  and  of  exercising  his  inventive  ability.  The 
savoury  pie  is  indeed  an  admirable  institution.  In  no 
manner  can  odds  and  ends  of  good  food  be  more  satisfac- 
torily disposed  of.  AVe  like  a  hot  pie,  "vve  like  a  cold  pie  ; 
it  is  welcome  at  breakfast,  at  luncheon,  or  at  dinner  ;  at 
the  pic-nic,  the  wedding  breakfast,  or  the  ball  supper. 
And  yet  it  must  be  confessed  that  we  rarely  eat  a  pie  in 
India  that  can  be  compared  with  an  ordinary  home-made 
pasty  in  England.  The  superiority  of  British  meat  may, 
no  doubt,  account  for  this  failure  to  a  certain  extent,  and 
the  climate  of  the  "  plain  country"  may  be  against  us,  but 
I  think  the  chief  diflSculty  is  susceptible  of  removal  if  we 
study  the  laws  of  pie-making  and  teach  our  cooks  accord- 
ing to  them. 

A  very  common  fault  committed  by  Ramasamy  in  his 
concoction  of  a  pie,  is  this  : — he  is  apt,  unless  taught  other- 
wise, to  cook,  or  partly  cook,  the  meat  of  which  it  is  made 
lefore  covering  it  with  paste,  and  baking  it.  It  is,  I  hope, 
unnecessary  for  me  to  point  out  that  this  is  an  altogether 
erroneous  proceeding.  Whatever  materials  you  may  choose 
— pigeons,   chicken,    steak,    or  game, — see  thnt  they   are 


A  FEW  NICE  PIES.  273 

laid  in  the  pie-dish  uncooked,  and  properly  covered  with 
paste  according  to  the  correct  laws  of  cookery.  Previously 
cooked  meat  may  very  often  be  made  use  of  in  a  pie,  I 
grant,  but  a  good  '  pasty'  can  hardly  be  produced  if  the 
whole  of  its  contents  have  been  dressed  beforehand. 

Having  selected  the  meat  for  your  pie,  the  first  thing  to 
remember  is  the  gravy  which  must  be  made  separately, 
and  part  of  it  poured  in  and  amongst  the  layers  in  the  pie- 
dish  before  the  paste  is  laid  over  it.  A  little  wine  lends 
valuable  aid  to  such  gravies  :  the  remains  of  a  good  bottle 
of  champagne  can  be  used  with  great  advantage  in  pigeon- 
pies,  chicken  and  ham  pies,  &c.,  and  Madeira  is  wanted 
for  game,  venison,  and  hare  pies.  The  gravy  ought  not 
to^ZZthe  pie-dish;  about  a  breakfast-cupful  will  suffice 
for  a  pie  of  moderate  size  in  the  first  instance. 

Prohibit  most  strenuously  the  use  of  Worcester,  Tapp, 
or  cmij  strongly  flavoured  sauce  of  that  kind  :  it  is  owing 
to  Ramasamy's  predilection  for  the  sauce  bottle  that  one 
peculiar  kind  of  taste  prevails  throughout  his  dishes,  in 
his  savoiu-y  pies  especially. 

The  seasoning  is  a  matter  demanding  close  attention  : 
here  the  "  spiced  pepper"  described  at  page  111  will  be 
found  of  great  assistance  ;  and  minced  mushrooms,  minced 
truffles,  and  minced  olives,  (made  from  remnants  you  may 
have  saved  after  an  important  day's  cooking)  will  come 
in  most  efficaciously.  Finely  chopped  liver  is  a  capital 
thing  to  shake  over  the  crevices  when  building  a  pie,  and 
little  bits  of  chopped  anchovy  may  be  similarly  used. 
Ham  and  tongue,  either  sliced,  or  grated,  is  welcome  in 
every  kind  of  '  pasty,'  bacon  is  almost  as  effective,  and 
sliced  Bologna  sausage  a  very  good  substitute. 

Always  rub  your  pie-dish  with  a  shallot,  before  pack- 
ing it. 

It  is  customary  to   garnish  the  surface  of  a  savoury  pie 


274  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

with  quarters  of  liard-boiled  eggs :  if  you  have  a  few 
button  mushrooms,  you  can  use  them  for  that  pui-pose  also, 
and  strew  some  finely  minced  parsley  over  the  whole. 

The  cupful  of  gravy  should  be  poured  gently  into  the 
packed  pie-dish  the  last  thing,  just  to  moisten  the  contents 
as  it  were. 

Assuming  that  the  cook  can  make  a  good  light  pie-crust, 
and  that  the  dish  has  been  neatly  covered  in  therewith, 
care  must  be  taken  about  the  state  of  the  oven  : — if  too 
slack,  the  crust  will  be  heavy  and  dull,  and  if  too  hot,  it 
will  be  burnt  before  the  pie  is  completely  cooked.  The 
oven  should  be  so  hot  that  you  cannot  quite  bear  your 
hand  inside  it. 

Always  leave  an  aperture  in  the  centre  of  your  pie- 
crust, which  you  can  cover  with  an  ornamental  device  in 
pastry  towards  the  end  of  the  baking.  This  is  necessary 
as  a  vent  for  the  escape  of  the  gas  which  the  cooking  of 
the  meat  generates,  and  also  as  an  opening  through  which 
you  can  pour  the  rest  of  your  gravy  as  a  finishing  touch 
after  the  pie  is  quite  baked.  The  glazing  of  the  crust 
should  be  done  towards  the  end  of  the  baking  by  brushing 
a  well  beaten  up  egg  over  its  surface. 

If  you  bear  these  general  rules  in  mind,  I  am  sure  that 
you  will  soon  experience  a  marked  improvement  in  the 
savoury  pies  that  your  cook  may  in  future  place  before  you. 

There  ought  to  be  little  or  no  difficulty  in  flavouring  a 
pie  even  though  circumstances  may  render  it  impossible 
for  you  to  compose  the  really  good  gravy  which  I  have 
recommended  as  so  highly  essential.  Take  an  ordinary 
"  chicken  and  beef-steak  pie"  for  instance  :  there  ought  to 
be  some  scraps  left  after  cutting  the  beef  to  fit  the  pie-dish, 
and  there  must  be  some  valuable  trimmings  available 
for  broth-making  when  you  have  cut  up  and  di'essed  the 
chicken — the  neck,   pinions,    legs    and   feet,    giblets,    &c. 


A  FEW  NICE  PIES.  275 

With  these  materials  the  cook  should  make  a  fairly  good 
broth,  flavouring  it  with  an  onion,  and  any  fragments  of 
vegetable  he  may  have  at  hand,  a  little  mushroom  ketch- 
up, some  pepper  corns,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  mixed  dried 
herbs,  the  peel  of  a  lime,  a  tea-spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce 
or  an  anchovy  finely  chopped,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  vine- 
gar, a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  When  the  scraps 
and  bones  have  simmered  secundum  artem  under  careful 
supervision  for  an  hour,  a  dash  of  Madeira  may  be  stirred 
into  the  sauce-pan,  and  in  a  few  minutes  the  broth  may 
be  strained  off  into  a  bowl.  As  soon  as  the  fat,  that  the 
liquid  may  throw  up,  has  been  removed,  the  cook  will  have 
at  his  command  a  very  excellent  substitute  for  real  gravy 
wherewith  to  moisten  the  contents  of  his  j^ie  :  far  better, 
at  all  events,  than  the  water  and  Worcester  sauce  which 
Ramasamy  is  generally  contented  to  use. 

A  recipe  for  a  really  good  "  beef- steak  pie"  will  be  found 
in  Menu  No.  28,  and  the  following  notes  concerning  a  "  Do- 
mestic Pastij"  will,  I  think,  commend  themselves  to  house- 
keepers who  know  what  it  is  to  find  a  few  pounds  of  good 
meat  on  their  hands  without  an  idea  of  what  to  do  with 
them. 

When  staying  on  the  Hills  some  time  ago,  a  question 
one  day  arose  touching  what  could  be  done  with  the 
remains  of  a  fine  saddle  of  mutton.  There  was  a  piece  of 
good  cold-boiled  pickled  pork  in  the  house,  about  a  pound 
of  gravy  beef  could  be  spared  from  the  soup  meat,  and  a 
nice  chicken  was  also  available.  I  decided  upon  making 
a  pie.  Having  called  for  the  saddle,  I  began  by  cutting 
as  many  slices  as  I  could  from  the  meat  that  remained 
untouched  at  the  tail  end  :  each  slice  was  trimmed  free 
from  burnt  skin,  &c.,  and  laid  upon  a  separate  plate. 
About  a  pound  and  a  half  of  these  slices  having  been 
obtained,  I  next  cut  off  all  remnants  of  good  lean  that  still 
adhered  to   the  bones,    and  put  them  into  a  bowl.     The 


276  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

bones  were  then  broken  np,  and  cast  into  a  large  stew- 
pan  with  every  atom  of  skin,  fat,  gristle,  &c.,  that  I  could 
find  left  in  the  dish  after  the  trimming  operation.  The 
whole  saddle  was  thus  disposed  of.  Into  the  stew-pan 
with  the  mutton  bones,  and  scraps,  I  threw  six  shallots,  a 
dozen  pepper  corns,  the  peel  of  a  lime,  two  carrots  cut  up, 
a  buncli  of  parsley,  a  coarse  stalk  of  celer}-  with  its  leaves, 
a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  a  bouquet  of  sweet 
herbs,  the  aforesaid  pound  of  gi^avy  beef  cut  up,  and  all 
the  trimmings  of  the  chicken, — neck,  legs,  feet,  pinions 
and  giblets.  Having  been  covered  with  warm  water,  and 
simmered  gently,  in  about  three  hours  these  various  ingre- 
dients produced  a  pint  and  a  half  of  very  excellent  broth 
which  was  strained  off,  and  set  to  cool.  The  lean  remnants 
which  had  been  saved  in  the  bowl  were  now  pounded  witli 
a  couple  of  anchovies  in  the  mortar,  and  passed  through  the 
sieve.  When  the  broth  was  quite  cold,  the  fat  was  skim- 
med off,  and  a  regular  jmree  made  with  it  and  the  pounded 
mutton.  It  was  now  time  to  pack  the  pie-dish,  which  was 
done  in  this  way : — first  a  sprinkling  of  finely  minced 
parsley,  then  a  double  layer  of  sliced  mutton,  over  that  a 
layer  of  sliced  lean  pork,  another  of  mutton,  and  so  on 
alternately,  till  there  was  just  enough  space  left  to  accom- 
modate the  joints  of  the  raw  chicken  :  these  were  neatly 
disposed  on  the  top,  with  little  bits  of  lean  pork  dotted  in 
between  them  :  the  sui-f  ace  was  garnished  with  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  into  quarters,  and  then  the  'puree  was  patiently 
poured  over  everything,  time  being  given  for  the  liquid 
to  settle  in  and  amongst  the  contents  of  the  pie-dish  : 
when  finished,  the  gravy  came  within  an  inch  of  the  top 
of  the  pie :  parsley  minced  small  was  shaken  over  the 
surface  as  a  last  touch.  The  cook  now  made  the  paste, 
and  covered  in  the  '  pasty' ;  it  was  baked,  and  at  the  end 
of  the  baking,  some  of  the  puree.,  which  had  been  saved 
for  the  purpose,  was  gently  poured  into  the  pie  through 


A  FEW  NICE  PIES.  277 

the  vent  in  tlie  centre  of  the  crust.  An  ornamental  flower 
cut  in  paste  was  placed  over  the  aperture,  the  crust  was 
glazed,  and  in  due  course  the  dish  was  ready  for  the 
table. 

Observe  the  absence  of  any  ready-made  sauce  in  the  con- 
coction of  this  simple  composition.  A  little  '  spiced  pepper' 
was  sprinkled  over  the  layers  of  meat,  and  some  very  finely 
chopped  thyme  and  marjoram, — about  a  tea-spoonful  in 
all, — was  shaken  over  them  also.  The  joints  of  chicken 
were  those  usually  cut  up  for  a  curry.  When  cold,  this 
pie  was  really  excellent ;  there  was  not  a  bit  of  grease  in 
it ;  the  meat  lay  prettily  embedded  in  a  delicious  jelly ;  and 
the  flavour  was  exactly  that  of  an  ordinary  home-made  pie 
in  England.  I  did  not  put  in  any  wine  ;  I  had  no  mush- 
rooms, and  nothing  expensive  was  used.  Instead  of  the 
lean  pickled  pork, — ham,  leanish  bacon,  tongue,  sliced 
Bologna  sausage,  or  even  slices  of  juicy  corned  beef,  might 
have  been  used.  A  little  consideration  will  enable  the 
composer  to  vary  both  the  contents  and  the  flavour  of  his 
pies  from  time  to  time. 

Lock  up  the  Worcester  sauce,  and  trust  to  the  meat, 
herbs,  and  good  gravy  to  produce  a  happy  result. 

Bearing  in  mind  the  rules  I  have  given,  and  remember- 
ing what  was  done  in  the  case  of  the  " Domestic  Fie'  just 
described,  I  think  you  may  undertake  any  of  the  follow- 
ing standard  pies  without  any  apprehension  : — 

1.  ^^  Beef-steaJc  and  Oyster  Pie.'' — Follow  the  recipe 
given  in  Menu  No.  28  as  far  as  the  cutting  up  of  the  beef 
is  concerned,  and  the  rolling  up  within  each  collop  of  a 
nice  piece  of  boiled  bacon.  Place  at  the  bottom  a  layer  of 
beef  collops,  then  a  layer  of  oysters  drained  from  the  tin 
liquor,  beef  again,  oysters  again,  and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is 
packed :  season  with  "  spiced  pepper"  and  finely  minced 
lime  peel.     The  gravy  must   be  made  thus  : — To  about  a 

26 


278  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

pint  of  good  beef  gravy,  add  the  liquor  you  strained  from 
the  tin  of  oysters,  the  rind  of  a  lime,  a  blade  of  mace,  .a 
glass  of  sherry  and  a  table-spoonfnl  of  walnnt  or  mushroom 
ketchup ;  heat  up  gently,  skimming  off  the  scum  which 
the  oyster  liquor  may  throw  up,  and  when  thoroughly 
blended,  strain  the  gi'avy  off,  and  pour  it  into  your  packed 
pie-dish,  reserving  about  a  coffee-cupful  to  pour  through 
the  top  of  the  crust  at  the  end  of  the  baking. 

2.  "  Chicken  and  Tonrjue  Fie.'' — A  chicken,  an  ox  tongue, 
and  six  mutton  cutlets  from  the  neck.  Cut  up  a  chicken 
as  if  for  cui-ry,  slice  up  a  cold-boiled,  home-cui'ed  tongue, 
and  trim  six  nice  mutton  cutlets  from  the  neck  as  if  for 
an  entree.  Throw  the  chicken  scraps,  the  tongue  skin  and 
trimmings,  and  all  the  remnants  of  mutton  left  after  shap- 
ing the  cutlets,  into  a  large  sauce-pan  with  the  materials 
for  gravy  flavouring  recommended  in  the  recipe  for  the 
•'  Domestic  Tie,''  and  make  a  nice  broth  with  them  ;  when 
the  broth  is  nearly  ready,  give  it  half  a  glass  of  Madeira, 
and  strain  when  it  is  finished.  Pack  the  pie  thus  : — a  dust 
of  chopped  parsley  at  the  bottom,  then  the  mutton  cutlets, 
above  them  the  slices  of  tongue,  and  the  chicken  at  the  toj). 
Poui'  in  the  gravy,  garnish  the  top  with  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cover  the  pie  with  a  good  crust,  and  bake. 

3.  "  Rabbit  Pie.'' — One  good  sized  rabbit,  half  a  pound 
of  bacon,  forcemeat,  and  a  pound  of  gravy  beef.  Skin 
and  wash  a  fine  rabbit,  cut  it  up  in  the  usual  way  as  if  for 
a  stew,  and  put  the  pieces  to  soak  in  cold  water.  When 
quite  clean,  drain  them,  wipe  them  dry  with  a  clean  cloth, 
and  set  them  aside.  Put  the  head,  the  lower  joints  of  the 
legs,  and  all  scraps  of  the  rabbit,  with  the  beef,  and  the 
usual  ingredients  for  flavouring  a  gravy  already  laid  down, 
into  a  large  sauce-pan,  and  make  the  best  gi^avy  you  can 
with  them  for  the  pie.  When  this  has  been  done  to  your 
satisfaction,  and  the  fat  has  been  skimmed  off  the  surface 
of  the  liquor,  proceed  in  this  way  : — Make  a  plain  force- 


A  FEW  NICE  PIES.  279 

meat  as  described  for  turkey,  mingling  with  it  tlie  liver 
and  kidneys  of  tlie  rabbit  very  finely  chopped,  and  spread  a 
thin  layer  of  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie-dish  ;  immediately 
above  it  put  a  layer  of  bacon  slices,  then  the  coarser  joints 
of  the  rabbit,  dusting  them  with  "  spiced  pepper,"  and 
filling  the  interstices  between  the  pieces  with  forcemeat ; 
put  a  second  layer  of  bacon  over  the  rabbit,  and  rabbit 
again  above  that,  repeat  the  forcemeat  dressing,  and  when 
the  pie-dish  is  full,  pour  in  the  gravy  till  it  almost  reaches 
the  level  of  the  topmost  layer.  Grarnish  as  usual,  cover 
the  pie  with  paste,  and  bake  ;  time,  if  the  oven  be  in  a 
proper  condition,  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter, 

4.  "  Hare  Pie." — This  should  be  made  like  the  fore- 
going '  pasty'  exactly,  with  two  slight  variations,  viz.  : — a 
glass  of  port,  half  a  glass  of  good  vinegar,  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  red  currant  jelly  should  be  mixed  into  the 
gravy,  and  a  little  pounded  mace  may  be  sprinkled  over 
the  meat  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  spiced  pepper, 

5.  "  Pigeon  Pie.'^ — A  pound  and  a, half  of  tender  lean 
beef  to  three  good  pigeons,  half  a  pound  of  leanish  bacon, 
and  a  pound  of  gravy  beef.  The  process  is  not  very 
different  from  that  of  the  pies  already  described.  You 
must  make  the  best  gravy  possible  from  the  pound  of 
gravy  meat,  the  pigeon  trimmings,  and  any  scraps  at  hand. 
The  pigeons  should  be  placed  upon  the  tender  beef,  which 
should  be  cut  into  neat  collops  and  blended  with  the  bacon 
cut  into  thin  strips  as  propounded  for  "  beef-steak  pie," 
Menu  No.  28.  Do  not  cut  the  pigeons  in  halves  :  let  them 
be  prepared  whole  as  if  for  roasting,  and  put  some  chopped 
bacon  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  or  "  spiced  pepper," 
salt,  and  grated  lime  peal,  inside  each  bird.  Half  a  glass 
of  Madeira  or  any  sound  white  wine  may  be  mingled  with 
the  gravy,  the  pie- dish  should  be  rubbed  with  a  shallot 
before  it  is  packed,  finely  chopped  parsley  should  be 
sprinkled  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish  before  the   beef 


280  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

collops  are  arranged  upon  it,  and  the  pigeon's  livers  with 
bacon  rolled  round  them  should  be  arranged  on  the  surface. 

I  have  also  found  that  mutton  collops  may  be  used  with 
almost  as  good  an  effect  as  those  of  beef.  I  used  the  meat 
of  the  blade-bone  of  a  shoulder,  which  was  cut  into  neat 
pieces  ;  these  were  rolled  with  a  slice  of  bacon  inside  them 
as  directed  for  beef. 

6.  "  Snipe  Pie.'' — When  snipes  are  plentiful,  as  they 
often  are  in  India,  the  cook  ought  to  remember  this 
delicacy.  Supposing  eight  birds  to  be  available,  I  would 
work  in  this  way  : — I  would  prepare  six  of  them,  as  if  for 
roasting,  for  the  pie  ;  and  two  I  would  sacrifice  for  the 
gravy,  which  ought  to  be  very  first  rate.  For  this  pur- 
pose two  pounds  of  gravy  meat  must  be  obtained,  besides 
about  a  couple  of  pounds  of  the  undercut,  or  tender  rib- 
meat,  for  the  pie.  Having  made  as  good  a  beef  gravy  as 
possible,  I  would  throw  into  it  the  two  snipe,  and  proceed 
to  make  a  little  puree  (as  explained  in  Menu  No.  16) 
pounding  the  meat  of  the  birds,  after  they  have  been  slowly 
simmered  in  the  gravy,  to  a  paste,  and  blending  it  with 
the  gravy  secundum  artem.  After  rubbing  the  pie-dish 
with  a  shallot,  I  would  fill  up  the  bottom  of  it  with  little 
collops  of  the  tender  beef  rolled  with  strips  of  bacon, 
"  spiced  pepper"  being  dusted  over  each  layer  until  all 
the  beef  has  been  used.  I  would  lay  the  six  snipes  on  the 
surface  of  the  beef  with  slices  of  lean  bacon,  ham,  tongue, 
or  Bologna  sausage,  between  each  bird,  garnish  as  usual, 
baptize  the  pie  with  the  puree,  saving  some  of  it  for  the 
final  process  previously  described,  cover  it  with  a  nice 
light  paste,  and  bake. 

Birds  badly  knocked  about  in  shooting  come  in  usefully 
for  gravy. 

Partridges,  and  quails  make  good  pies,  but  they  require 
a  sound  and  strong  support  in  the  way  of  fresh  meat,  and 


A  FEW  NICE  PIES.  281 

good  gravy.  Beef, — the  tender  undercut,  or  rib-meat, — 
forms  the  best  basis  you  can  devise :  it  should  be  cut  up 
into  collops,  as  I  have  frequently  said  before,  and  strips 
of  bacon  should  be  rolled  round  them.  Or  you  can  use 
the  blade-bone  collops  of  good  mutton  just  described,  or 
the  neck  cutlets ;  each  cutlet  should  be  trimmed  neatly, 
with  a  strip  of  bacon  wrapped  round  it.  Excellent  gravy 
can  be  obtained  from  the  scraps  left  after  trimming  the 
beef  or  the  cutlets,  the  remnants  of  the  birds  not  wanted 
in  the  pie,  and  a  pound  of  gravy  meat,  with  the  usual 
vegetables,  and  other  flavouring  ingredients  often  describ- 
ed. A  little  wine  is  almost  a  sine  qua  non  with  these 
game  birds :  Madeira,  sound  brown  sherry,  or  any  white 
wine — of  which  a  glass  is  quite  enough. 

A  good  "  Game  pie'^  is  a  capital  thing  for  the  luncheon,  or 
breakfast  party.  Snipe,  quails,  partridges,  hares,  pigeons, 
teal,  wild  duck,  &c.,  &c.,  can  be  thus  disposed  of  most 
advantageously :  they  must  be  assisted  by  tender  beef,  or 
good  mutton  collops  ;  slices  of  bacon,  of  ham,  or  of  Bologna 
sausage  must  be  introduced,  and  the  gravy  must  be  very 
attentively  composed.  A  forcemeat  made  thus  will  be 
found  undeniably  valuable : — take  the  livers  of  all  the 
game  composing  the  pie,  and  make  the  composition  de- 
scribed elsewhere  as  "/oie-grras  forcemeat,"  truffles  and  all, 
using  the  game  livers  instead  of  that  of  a  calf.  When 
ready,  you  can  use  it  as  follows  : — spread  a  layer  of  it  over 
the  bottom  of  the  pie-dish,  and  up  the  sides  also  :  what 
remains  should  be  introduced  here  and  there  amongst  the 
layers  of  meat  during  the  packing  operations.  As  the 
game  must  be  honed  in  the  case  of  this  particular  dish,  we 
shall  have  to  mash  all  the  bones  with  the  pestle,  and 
throw  them  into  our  stock-pot.  Take  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  gravy  beef,  the  mashed  game  bones,  a  bacon  or  ham 
bone,  (or  a  few  slices  of  either)  two  sheep's  feet  cut  up, 
and  the  vegetables  generally  used  in  soup-making,  with  a, 


282  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

bouquet  of  sweet  herbs,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  little  mixed 
spice,  a  dozen  pepper  corns,  a  little  caramel  for  colouring, 
and  salt  to  taste,  and  make  the  very  richest  gravy  in  the 
style  of  "  aspic  jelly"  stock.  Menu  No.  9.  Instead  of 
tarragon  vinegar,  add  to  the  broth  which  you  get  after 
straining,  one  glass  of  Madeira,  or  fruity  sherry,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  reduced  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  red 
currant  jelly,  and  half  a  wine-glass  of  mushroom  ketchup, 
boil  the  gravy  up  again,  and  then  set  it  to  get  cool  prior 
to  its  being  poured  into  the  pie.  The  game  of  which  the 
pie  is  to  be  made  should  be  carefully  honed,  and  if  of  a  large 
kind,  cut  up  into  neat  pieces  ;  skin,  scraps,  and  trimmings 
should  be  cast  into  the  stock-pot  with  the  mashed  bones. 
Arrange  the  meat  when  trimmed  satisfactorily  upon  a 
large  flat  dish,  dredge  it  over  with  flour,  and  give  it  a 
dusting  of  ^' spiced  pepper^*  which  ought  to  be  specially 
prepared  for  the  occasion.  After  having  rubbed  the  pie- 
di.sh  well  with  a  shallot,  spread  the  thin  coating  of  force- 
meat over  the  bottom  of  it,  and  up  the  sides,  as  already 
mentioned.  Next,  place  a  good  layer  of  tender  beef,  or 
m.utton  collops,  each  rolled  round  a  slice  of  bacon,  over 
the  forcemeat  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  then  go  on 
packing  the  game  meat,  with  slices  of  ham,  bacon,  or 
Bologna  sausage,  dotted  in  here  and  there,  and  frequent 
dustings  of  "  spiced  pepper"  until  the  dish  is  filled. 

For  a  special  occasion,  a  bottle  of  truffles  should  be 
opened  and  used  in  this  way  : — Trim  the  truffles  into  dice, 
chopping  up  quite  small  the  parings  and  trimmings  which 
are  left :  this  mince  ought  to  be  used  in  the  liver  force- 
meat :  the  dice  should  be  tossed  awhile  in  melted  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  with  a  glass  of  Madeira,  and  a  spoonful 
of  good  gravy  and  then  cleverly  put  in  amongst  the  game 
meat  during  the  packing  of  the  pie-dish.  If  mushrooms 
happen  to  be  available  as  they  often  are  during  rainy 
weather,  treat  them,   after  cleaning  and   peeling  them, 


A  FEW  NICE  PIES.  283 


exactly  like  tlie  truffles  :  toss  tliem  a  short  time  in  butter 
in  the  frjing-pan,  if  large,  cut  them  into  convenient  pieces, 
or  if  buttons,  put  them  in  whole  as  you  go  on  with  your 
packing.  Thus  composed,  and  bountifully  diluted  with 
the  aforesaid  good  gravy,  our  pie  may  be  covered  over 
with  the  best  paste,  baked,  glazed,  enriched  with  a  second 
libation  of  rich  gravy  poured  in  through  the  vent  to  finish 
with,  and  served  cold  with  confidence  bordering  upon 
exultation. 

While  on  the  subject  of  good  pies,  I  can  scarcely  do 
better  than  end  this  chapter  with  an  excellent  recipe  for 
a  pie,  practicable  with  seer-fish  as  well  as  with  salmon. 

Salmon  pie,  to  be  eaten  cold : — Take  one  pound  of  salmon 
from  the  tin,  and  drain  it  from  the  tin  liquor.  If  nice 
and  firm,  cut  it  into  fillets  with  a  dessert-knife.  Make 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  forcemeat  as  follows  : — choose 
either  some  fresh  uncooked  whiting,  pomfret,  or  other 
fresh  fish  and  having  taken  eight  ounces  of  it  pass  it 
through  a  wire  sieve,  add  four  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  and 
four  of  fine  white  crumbs,  pound  all  together  in  a  mortar, 
and  season  the  puree  with  salt  and  pepper;  moisten  it 
with  a  cupful  of  rich  poulette  sauce,  and  bind  the  mixture 
with  two  raw  eggs.  Line  a  raised  pie  tin  with  paste  as 
for  pork  pie,  fill  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of  the  forcemeat, 
then  a  layer  of  the  salmon,  an  inch  thick,  continuing  the 
packing  till  the  pie  is  filled.  Put  a  cover  of  ptiff-paste 
over  the  top,  brush  it  over  with  white  of  egg,  and  bake  the 
pie  slowly.  When  done,  let  it  cool  for  half  an  hour,  and 
then  pour  in,  through  a  hole  made  in  the  top,  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  rich  fish  broth,  made  from  the  bones  and  trim- 
mings of  the  fresh  fish,  reduced  to  a  glaze,  and  mix  with 
a  coffee-cupful  of  essence  of  truffles  made  in  this  way  : — 

Take  the  contents  of  a  small  bottle  of  truffles,  and  boil 
them  for  twenty  minutes  briskly  in  a  pint  of  clear  chicken 


284         CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

broth,  flavoured  with  a  glass  of  Madeira,  some  sweet  herbs, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  nntmeg.  Remove  the  sauce-pan 
from  the  fire,  and  when  the  liquid  is  cold,  pick  out  the 
truffles  (they  will  do  for  any  other  dish),  and  strain  the 
cold  essence. 

After  having  poured  the  essence  into  the  pie,  let  it  get 
quite  cold,  then  turn  it  out  of  the  tin,  put  it  upon  a  napkin, 
and  serve.  If  made  with  uncooked  seer  fish  instead  of 
salmon,  the  pie  will  be  found  excellent. 

There  are,  of  course,  many  other  pies  concerning  which 
I  could  give  advice,  I  am,  however,  pretty  confident  that  if 
yon  bear  in  mind  the  principles  I  have  tried  to  make  clear, 
you  will  rarely  fail  to  succeed  in  composing  a  very  eatable 
'  pasty,'  and  win  approval  from  those  for  whose  delect- 
ation you  may  exercise  your  ingenuity. 

On  the  Hills,  at  Bangalore,  and  at  many  of  the  stations 
of  this  Presidency  during  the  cold  months,  every  one  of 
the  pies  I  have  described  will  be  found  when  cold  to 
contain  firm  jelly, — not  liquid  gravy.  If  you  desire  to 
produce  that  cheerful  effect  at  Madras,  do  not  forget  to 
place  the  pie  upon  ice  for  some  little  time  before  the  meal 
at  which  it  is  to  appear.  The  jelly  is,  of  course,  the  united 
result  of  good  gravy,  and  the  juices  of  the  various  meats 
in  the  pie  extracted  by  baking. 

During  the  hot  weather  on  the  plains,  if  you  cannot  ice 
the  pie,  it  will  be  found  a  good  plan  to  pour  off  the  gravy- 
after  it  has  left  the  table,  hot.  This  will  prevent  the 
meat  turning  sour.  The  gravy  can  be  heated  the  next 
morning,  and  the  pie  can  be  warmed  up.  Cold  pie,  with- 
out artificial  cold  imparted  by  ice,  is  an  impossibility 
with  the  thermometer  at  90  ° . 


^■■■■^^3^ 

mmi 

^^^il 

|i;?af<Wwi^ 

S!S>^-^/s!5§ 

wMvii^^_ 

oiEacA-i^TEi^  :2^:^^-^xxx. 


Our  Curries. 

S^T^  are  often  told  by  men  of  old  time,  whose  long 
connection  with  the  country  entitles  them  to 
speak  with  the  confidence  of  "  fellows  who  know, 
don't  yon  know,"  that  in  inverse  proportion,  as  it  were,  to 
the  steady  advance  of  civilization  in  India,  the  sublime  art 
of  curry-making  has  gradually  passed  away  from  the  native 
cook.  Elders  at  Madras — erst-while  the  acknowledged 
head-centre  of  the  craft — shake  their  heads  and  say  "  Icha- 
bod !"  and  if  encouraged  to  do  so,  paint  beautiful  mouth- 
watering "  pictures  in  words"  of  succulent  morsels  cun- 
ningly dressed  with  all  the  savoury  spices  and  condiments 
of  Ind,  the  like  of  which,  they  say,  we  ne'er  shall  look 
upon  again. 

Looking  back  myself  to  the  hour  of  my  arrival  in  India, 
I  call  to  mind  the  kind-hearted  veteran  who  threw  his 
doors  open  to  me,  and,  pouring  in  the  oil  and  wine  of  lavish 
hospitality,  set  me  upon  his  own  beast,  killed  the  fatted 
calf,  and  treated  me,  indeed,  as  a  son  that  had  been  lost  and 
was  found.  It  rejoiced  this  fine  old  servant  of  honest  John 
Company,  I  remember,  to  give  "  tiffin"  parties  at  which 
he  prided  himself  on  sending  round  eight  or  nine  varieties 
of  curries,  with  divers  platters  of  freshly-made  chutneys, 
grilled  ham,  preserved  roes  of  fishes,  &c.  The  discussion 
of  the  "  course," — a  little  banquet  in  itself — used  to  occupy 

27 


286  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

at  least  half  an  hour,  for  it  was  the  correct  thing  to  taste 
each  curry,  and  to  call  for  those  that  specially  gratified 
you  a  second  time. 

NoTv,  this  my  friend  was,  I  take  it,  a  type  of  the  last 
Anglo-Indian  generation  ;  a  genei-ation  that  fostered  the 
art  of  curry-making,  and  bestowed  as  much  attention  to  it 
as  we,  in  these  days  of  grace,  do  to  copying  the  culinary 
triumphs  of  the  lively  Gauls. 

Thirty  years  ago  fair  house-keepers  were  wont  to  vaunt 
themselves  upon  their  home-made  curry  powders,  their 
chutney s,  tamarind  and  roselle  jellies,  and  so  forth,  and 
carefully  superintended  the  m-aking  thereof.  But  fashion 
has  changed,  and  although  ladies  arc,  I  think,  quite  as 
fond  of  a  good  curry  as  their  grandmothers  were,  they 
rarely  take  the  trouble  to  gather  round  them  the  elements 
of  success,  and  have  ceased  to  be  cumbered  about  this 
particular  branch  of  their  cook's  work. 

This  is  an  important  point,  for  if  we  enquire  closely  into 
the  causes  that  have  led  to  the  alleged  decay  of  the  curry- 
making  knack,  we  shall  certainly  find  that  the  chief  of 
them  is  want  of  care  in  the  preparation  of  powders  and 
pastes,  and  the  loss  of  recipes  which  in  days  gone  by  were 
wrapped  in  silver  pajier,  and  preserved  Avith  miniatures 
painted  on  ivory,  locks  of  hair,  love  sonnets,  and  other 
precious  secrets  of  a  lady's  escritoire. 

I  say  *'  chief  "  advisedly,  for  there  can  be  no  doubt  that 
modern  improvements  in  our  cuisine,  and  modern  good 
taste,  have  assisted  in  a  measure  in  elbowing  ofE  the  once 
delectable  plats  of  Indian  origin  ;  and  that  the  best  curry 
in  the  world  would  never  be  permitted  to  appear  at  a  petit- 
diner  composed  by  a  good  disciple  of  the  new  regime. 

Curries  now-a-days  are  only  licensed  to  be  eaten  at 
breakfast,  at  luncheon,  and  perhaps  at  the  little  home 
dinner,  when  they  may,  for  a  change,  occasionally  form 


OUR  CURRIES.  287 


the  piece  de  resistance  of  that  cosy  meal.  Having  tlms 
lost  "  caste,"  so  to  speak,  it  ought  hardly  to  surprise  us 
that  curries  have  deteriorated  in  quality.  The  old  cooks, 
who  studied  the  art,  and  were  encouraged  in  its  cultiva- 
tion, have  passed  away  to  their  happy  hunting-grounds  ; 
and  the  sons  and  grandsons  who  now  reign  in  their  stead 
have  been  taught  to  devote  themselves  to  more  fashionable 
dishes. 


While,  however,  it  cannot  be  denied  that  the  banish- 
ment of  curries  from  the  menu  of  our  high-art  banquets, 
both  great  and  small,  is,  for  many  reasons,  indispensably 
necessary,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  at  mess  and  club 
dinners,  at  hotels,  and  at  private  houses,  as  already  shown, 
these  time-honoured  dishes  will  always  be  welcome.  Has 
not  the  time  arrived  then  for  us  to  endeavour  to  resuscitate 
the  ancient  cunning  of  our  cooks,  and  to  take  some  pains 
to  attain  that  end  ? 

The  actual  cooking  of  a  curry  presents  no  special  diffi- 
culty.    A  cook  who  is  an  adept  with  the  stew-pan,  and  \ 
who  has  mastered  the  art  of  slow,  and  very  gentle  simmer-  I 
^m^  will,  whether  a  Frenchman,  an  Englishman,  or  a  mild 
Hindu,  soon  become  familiar  with  the  treatment  of  this 
particular  dish. 

The  knotty  points  are  these  : — First  the  powder  or 
paste,  next  the  accessories,  and  lastly  the  order  in  which 
the  various  component  parts  should  be  added. 

Concerning  powders,  it  behoves  us  to  proceed  with  cau- 
tion, or  we  shall  soon  lose  ourselves  in  a  maze  of  recipes. 
Speaking  of  them  generally,  however,  it  is  not,  I  think, 
commonly  known  that  curry-powders  improve  by  keeping 
it  carefully  bottled.  One  of  the  causes  of  our  daily  failures 
is  undoubtedly  the  lazy  habit  we  have  adopted  of  per- 
mitting our  cooks  to  fabricate  their  "  curry-stuff,"  on  the 
spot,   as  it  is  required.     Powder  should  be  made  in  large 


I 


288  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

quantities  under  the  eye  of  the  mistress  of  the  house,  or 
that  of  a  really  trustworthy  head-servant.  It  should  then 
be  bottled,  and  corked  secui*ely  down. 

I  shall  presently  give  a  very  valuable  receipt  for  a  stock 
household  powder,  one  that  was  surrendered  to  me  by  an 
accomplished  chatelaine,  on  the  eve  of  her  departure  from 
India,  as  a  token  of  the  sincerest  friendship.  But  for 
those  who  wish  to  avoid  trouble  and  yet  to  have  good 
curries,  I  strongly  advocate  the  use  of  Barrie's  Madras 
curry-powder  and  paste.  I  am  not  employed  as  an  adver- 
tising medium.  My  advice  is  not  the  advice  of  a  "  gent" 
travelling  for  Messrs.  Barrie  and  Co.,  it  is  the  honest 
exhortation  of  one,  my  friends,  who  has  the  success  of 
your  curries  very  closely  at  heart. 

After  more  than  twenty  years'  experience  of  Barrie's 
condiments,  I  say  boldly,  that  I  am  aware  of  no  prepara- 
tions in  the  market  that  can  equal  them.  At  the  "  Orien- 
tal Depot,"  on  the  southern  side  of  Leicester  Square, — a 
sanctuary  known,  I  fear,  to  too  few  Anglo-Indians  at 
home — you  can  see,  or  coidd  see,  (for  the  little  place  may 
have  been  swept  away  for  aught  I  know  with  Northum- 
berland House,  Temple  Bar  and  other  structures  of  re- 
nown), sundry  casks  of  Barrie's  curry-stuffs,  chutneys, 
&c.  I  discovered  the  place  by  a  mere  accident,  and  the 
smell  and  the  order-book  convinced  me  that  I  had  not  made 
a  mistake.  The  former  was  that  of  my  friend  Barrie, 
and  the  latter  contained  names  of  such  high  degree  in 
connection  with  India  that  I  immediately  removed  my 
hat. 

Unfortunately  the  depot  is  largely  patronized  by  Lon- 
don grocers,  who,  over-wise  in  their  generation,  use  the 
condiments  they  purchase  as  mere  stock  wherewith  to 
flavour  some  miserable  concoction  of  their  own  manufac- 
ture. Two  parts  of  arrowroot  coloured  with  saffron,  and 
one  part   of  Barrie,   for   instance,  is   a   mixture  that  can 


OUR  CURRIES.  289 


hardly  witli  justice  be  called  "  genuine  Madras  curry- 
powder,"  notwithstanding  its  being  bottled  in  a  very 
pretty  bottle,  and  priced  two  and  six, 

I  detected  the  presence  of  Barrie's  excellent  mulliga- 
tunny  paste  at  several  places  at  home,  especially  at  Mutton's 
at  Brighton,  where  a  basin  of  the  potage  Indien  for  lunch 
on  a  frosty  day  used  to  be  a  thing  worth  recording  in  a 
pilgrim's  diary  with  red  letters. 

Assuming  that  we  have  procured,  or  made,  a  really 
good  stock  powder,  the  accessories  next  present  themselves 
for  our  consideration.  These  are  very  important,  for,  with 
their  aid,  a  clever  cook  can  diversify  the  flavour,  and  style 
of  his  curries  ;  without  them — be  the  powder  or  paste 
never  so  well  composed — the  dish  will  certainly  lack  finish, 
and  the  true  characteristics  of  a  good  curry. 

Prominently  among  them  stands  the  medium  to  be  used 
for  the  frying  of  the  onions,  with  which  the  process  com- 
mences. This  most  assuredly  should  be  butter.  The 
quantity  required  is  not  very  great,  and  surely  it  may  be 
assumed  that  people  who  want  to  have  a  good  curry  will 
not  ruin  it  for  the  sake  of  a  "  two  ounce  pat  of  Dosset !" 
for  be  it  noted,  that  tinned  butter  of  a  good  brand  is 
admii'ably  adapted  for  this  work. 

Among  other  adjuncts  that  may  be  written  down  as  ^ 
indispensable  are  the  ingredients  needed  to  produce  that  I 
suspicion  of  sweet-acid  which  it  will  be  remembered,  forms 
a  salient  feature  of  a  superior  curry.  The  natives  of  the 
south  use  a  rough  tamarind  conserve  worked,  sometimes, 
with  a  very  little  jaggery  or  molasses,  and  a  careful  prepa- 
ration of  tamarind  is  decidedly  valuable.  Why,  however, 
should  we  not  improve  upon  this  with  red  currant  jelly 
and  if  further  sharpness  be  needed,  a  little  lime  or  lemon 
juice  ?  In  England,  and  I  daresay  in  India  also,  chop- 
ped apple  is  sometimes  used,  and  perhaps  chopped  mango, 
in  the  fool-days  of  the  fruit,  would  be  nice.     A  spoonful 


290  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

of  sweetish  chutney  and  a  little  vinegar  or  lime  juice  can 
be  employed,  but  I  confess  that  I  prefer  the  red  currant 
jelly  as  aforesaid. 

There  are  also  certain  green  leaves  which  are  undoubt- 
edly not  to  be  despised  as  flavouring  agents.  By  their 
means  flavours  can  be  effectively  changed.  I  will  speak 
of  them  again  when  discussing  the  process  of  curry-making 
step  by  step. 

Xy^i^^  ^  Then  there  is  that  most  important  item  the  cocoanut. 
This,  as  everyone  knows,  is  added  to  a  curry  in  the  form 
I  of  "  milk,"  I.e.,  an  infusion  produced  by  scraping  the 
/  white  nutty  part  of  the  cocoanut,  and  soaking  the  scrap- 
^  ings  in  boiling  water.  This,  strained,  is  the  "milk" 
required  in  curry-making.  The  quantity  to  be  used  de- 
pends upon  the  nature  of  the  curry.  Malay  curries,  for 
instance,  require  a  great  deal  of  "  milk."  The  point  in 
connection  with  this  adjunct,  however,  that  must  not 
be  missed,  is  the  period  at  which  it  should  be  added.  If 
put  in  too  soon,  the  value  of  the  nutty  juice  will  be  lost, 
— cooked  away,  and  overpowered  by  the  spicy  condiments 
with  which  it  is  associated.  So  we  must  reserve  the 
•'  milk,"  as  we  do  cream  or  the  yolk  of  an  g^^  in  the  case 
of  a  thick  soup  or  rich  sauce,  and  stir  it  into  our  curry  the 
last  thing  just  before  serving. 

The  strained  milk  extracted  from  pounded  sweet 
almonds  can  be  put  into  a  curry  very  advantageously  :  it 
may  be  used  alone,  or  be  associated  with  cocoanut  milk. 
One  ounce  of  the  latter,  to  twelve  almonds,  will  be  found 
a  pleasant  proportion.  When  cocoanuts  cannot  be  got, 
almond  milk  makes  a  capital  substitute. 

Curries  cannot  afford  to  dispense  with  the  assistance  of 
some  stock  or  gravy.  It  is  not  uncommon  to  hear  people 
say  that  they  have  eaten  far  better  curries  in  England 
than  in  India,  the  chief  reason  being  that  Mary  Jane  will 


OUR  CURRIES. 


291 


not  undertake  to  make  the  disk  without  at  least  a  break- 
fast-cupful and  a  half  of  good  stock. 

Let  us  now  consider  attentively  the  actual  details  of 
curry-making,  and  since  we  cannot  proceed  to  work  with- 
out a  good  powder  or  paste,  we  can  hardly  do  better  than 
commence  operations  by  studying  the  recipe  for  a  house- 
hold curry-stuff,  concerning  which  I  have  already  spoken. 
If  faithfully  followed,  it  will,  I  am  sure,  be  found  most 
trustworthy.     It  runs  as  follows  : — 


4  lbs. 

of  turmeric      ...          ...      Hind,   liuldi. 

8  lbs. 

of  coriander-seed        ...         , 

,         dhunnia. 

2  lbs. 

of  cummin- seed          ...         , 

,         jeer  a. 

1  lb. 

of  poppy-seed , 

,          Jchush-Jchush. 

2  lbs. 

of  fenugreek  ...          ...         , 

,          may  t  hi. 

1  lb. 

of  dry-ginger  ...           ...         , 

,              S07lt. 

|lb. 

of  mustard-seed          ...         , 

, .        rai. 

i  lb. 

of  dried  chillies           ...        , 

,          sooha  mirrch. 

1  lb. 

of  black  pepper  corns.         , 

,          hala  mirrch. 

Do  not  be  alarmed  at  the  quantity,  remembering  my 
previous  statement  that  curry-powder  improves  by  keep- 
ing, if  carefully  secured.  The  amount  when  finally  mixed 
will  fill  about  half  a  dozen  bottles  of  the  size  in  which  tart 
fruits  are  imported.  Accordingly,  if  disinclined  to  lay  in 
so  large  a  stock  at  a  time,  the  obvious  alternative  of  shar- 
ing some  of  it  with  a  friend  can  easily  be  adopted. 

The  lady  who  gave  me  the  receipt  accompanied  her 
kind  action  with  a  little  good  advice  : — "  Weigh  every- 
thing," said  she,  "  most  carefully,  and  even  after  the  vari- 
ous ingredients  have  been  cleaned,  weigh  them  again,  and 
also  weigh  the  husks,  &c.,  that  have  been  removed.  In 
this  way  alone  will  you  be  able  to  guard  against  the  dis- 
ajDpearance  of  half  an  ounce  of  this,  or  an  ounce  of  that, — 
petty  pilferings  that  take  from  the  curry-powder  that 
which  it  cannot  get  again,  and  leave  it  poor  indeed." 


292  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Inasmuch,  therefore,  as  short  weight  can  be  more  easily 
detected  in  fairly  large  than  in  small  quantities,  an  addi- 
tional reason  presents  itself  for  making  np  the  entire 
recipe. 

The  coriander-seed  and  fenugreek  must  each  be  parched 
very  carefully,  i.e.,  roasted  like  coffee  berries,  before  being 
pounded,  and  the  other  ingredients  should  be  cleaned  and 
dried,  each  separately,  and,  when  pounded,  should  be  well 
sifted. 

In  order  to  preserve  the  proportions  after  the  seeds  have 
been  powdered  and  sifted,  it  is  necessary  to  obtain  much 
larger  quantities  of  the  various  ingredients  in  the  first 
instance.  Coriander-seed,  for  example,  is  very  oily  and 
only  a  part  of  it  will  pass  through  the  sieve  ;  twenty-four 
ounces  of  the  seed  will  not  yield  more  than  eight  ounces 
of  powder  :  eight  ounces  of  turmeric  root  will  give  four 
of  powder  :  cummin-seed  loses  about  one-third  of  its  origi- 
nal weight  in  the  process  of  sifting,  and  dried  chilli  skin 
about  half. 

Weights  having  been  tested,  then  the  whole  of  the 
powders  should  be  mixed,  a  quarter  of  a  bottle  of  salt 
being  sprinkled  in  by  degrees  during  the  process.  The 
bottles,  thoroughly  cleansed  and  dried  in  the  sun,  may 
now  be  filled  and  corked  tightly  down,  the  tops  being 
securely  waxed  over. 

Some  recommend  that,  when  the  powder  has  been  mixed, 
it  should  be  browned  in  melted  butter  over  the  fire,  then 
dried  in  the  sun,  and  powdered  again,  in  order  to  tone 
down  the  strong  flavour  of  the  cummin-seed. 

This  is  a  stoclc  powder,  the  flavour  of  which  can  be 
varied  by  the  use  of  certain  spices,  and  green  leaves,  gar- 
lic, onions,  green  ginger,  almond,  cocoanut,  &c.,  at  the 
time  of  cooking  the  cuiny. 

The  spices,  which  should  be  used  according  to  taste  and 


OUR  CURRIES.  293 


discretion,  are  these  : — cloves  (laoong),  mace  (jaivatri), 
cinnamon  (kulmi  darehini) ,  initm.eg  (jaephal),  cardamoms 
{eelachij,  and  allspice  (seetul  chini  gack),  A  salt-spoonful 
of  one,  or  at  most  of  two,  of  these  aromatic  powders 
blended,  will  suffice  for  a .  large  curry.  Dr.  Kitchener's 
precept,  viz,,  that  the  mixing  of  several  spices  is  a  blunder, 
should  never  be  forgotten. 

The  green  leaves  that  are  often  useful  when  judiciously- 
introduced  are  : — fennel  (souf),  "  maytJii  hajee"  lemon- 
grass  (uggea-ghas),  bay-leaves  (tajipatha) ,  "  Jcaray-paith," 
*^  kotemear'  leaves  (green  coriander),  &c. 

When  green  ginger  is  used  it  should  be  sliced  very  fine, 
and  pounded  to  a  paste  ;  a  dessert-spoonful  being  suffi- 
cient for  one  curry. 

The  indispensably  necessary  suspicion  of  sweet-acid  can 
be  produced  most  readily  by  a  dessert-spoonful  of  powdered 
or  moist  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lime,  or  a  spoonful  of 
vinegar.  A  table- spoonful  of  sweet  chutney  and  the  juice 
of  a  lime  make  a  good  substitute  ;  but  a  table-spoonful  of 
red  currant  jelly,  with  one  of  chutney,  and  a  little  vinegar 
of  lime  juice,  form  to  my  mind  the  nicest  combination  for 
dark  curries. 

I  strongly  advocate  the  very  capital  plan  of  making  a 
fresh  paste  of  some  of  the  above  adjuncts,  in  sufficient 
quantity  for  the  curry  in  hand,  and  blending  it  with  the 
stock  powder  when  cooking  the  latter.  Here  is  a  reliable 
recipe  : — One  small  onion,  one  clove  of  garlic,  one  dessert- 
spoonful of  turmeric,  one  of  freshly-roasted  coriander-seed, 
one  of  poppy-seed,  a  tea-spoonful  of  Nepaul  pepper,  one 
of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  and  one  of  grated  green  ginger. 
Pound  all  these  with  sufficient  good  salad  oil  to  make  a 
paste.  Also  pound  twelve  almonds,  and  one  ounce  of 
cocoanut,  with  a  little  lime  juice  to  assist  the  operation. 
Then  mix  the  two  pastes,  and  stir  into  them  a  salt-spoon- 

28 


294  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

fill  of  cinnamon  or  clove-powder.  A  heaped  up  tablc- 
spoonfnl  of  this  paste  to  one  of  the  stock  powder  will  pro- 
duce a  very  excellent  result.  Additional  heat  can  be 
obtained  by  those  who  like  very  hot  curHes  if  red  chilli 
powder  be  added  to  the  above  ingredients  according  to 
taste.  This  paste  will  keep  if  put  away  carefully  and 
covered  up. 

Having  satisfied  ourselves  as  to  the  composition  of  oar 
powder  and  paste, 

We  may  now  work  out,  step  by  step,  the  process  to  be 
followed  in  cooking  a  chicken  curry. 

Choose  a  nice  young  chicken — and  here  let  me  point  out 
that  large  chickens  nearly  full  grown  ought  never  to  be 
used  in  curries — and  having  cut  it  up  neatly  as  for  a 
fricassee  J  place  the  pieces  aside,  and  dredge  over  them  a 
little  flour.  Next  take  all  the  trimmings,  neck,  pinions, 
leg  bones,  feet,  head,  &c.,  with  any  scraps  of  meat  that 
can  be  spared,  and  cast  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  an 
onion  sliced,  a  caiTot  sliced,  half  a  dozen  pepper  corns,  a 
bit  of  celery,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  sugar,  cover  them 
with  cold  water  and  make  the  best  broth  you  can.  When 
ready,  strain  the  contents  of  the  sauce-pan  into  a  bowl, 
and  skim  it  clean.  A  good  breakfast-cupful  of  weak  stock 
should  thus  be  obtained.  Lastly,  make  a  breakfast-cupful 
of  milk  of  cocoanut,  or  almond. 

Now  take  your  stew-pan,  and  having  sliced  up  six  good 
shallots,  or  two  small  white  onions,  cast  the  rings  into  it, 
with  two  ounces  of  Denmark,  Normandy,  or  other  good 
tinned  butter ;  add  a  finely-minced  clove  of  garlic,  and 
fry  till  the  onions  turn  a  nice  yellow  brown.  Then  add  a 
heaped-up  table-spoonful  of  the  stock  powder,  and  one  of 
the  paste,  or,  if  you  have  not  made  the  latter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  powder.  Cook  the  curry- stuff  with  the 
onions  and  butter  for  a  minute  or  two,  slowly,  adding  by 


OUR  CURRIES.  295 


degrees  a  wine-glassful  of  the  eocoanut  milk,  and  then 
also  by  degrees  the  breakfast-ctLpfnl  of  broth.  The  effect 
of  this  when  simmered  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  be  a 
rich,  thick,  cui'ry  gravy,  or  sauce.  The  stew-pan  should 
now  be  placed  en  hain-marie  while  we  proceed  to  prepare 
the  chicken. 

Take  a  frying-pan  :  melt  in  it  an  ounce  of  butter,  or 
clarified  beef  suet,  add  a  shallot  cut  up  small,  and  fry  for 
a  couple  of  minutes.  Next  put  the  pieced  of  chicken  into 
the  saute-^2iD.,  and  lightly  fry  them.  As  soon  as  slightly 
coloured,  the  pieces  of  chicken  should  be  transferred  to 
the  stew-pan  in  which  they  should  rest  for  at  least  half  an 
hour,  marinading,  as  it  were,  in  the  curry  gravy.  After 
that,  the  stew-pan  should  be  placed  over  a  gentle  fire,  and 
if  the  liquid  be  found  insufficient  to  cover  the  pieces  of 
chicken,  stock,  if  available,  or  water,  should  be  added.  A 
gentle  simmering  process  should  now  be  encouraged, 
during  which  the  bay-leaf,  chutney,  and  sweet-acid  should 
be  added.  If  powder  without  fresh  paste  has  been  used, 
the  pounded  almond  and  cocoanut  must  now  be  put  in, 
with  a  little  spice  and  grated  green  ginger.  The  curry 
gravy  should  at  this  period  be  tasted,  and  if  a  little  more 
acid  or  sweet  be  found  necessary,  the  proper  correction 
should  be  made.  As  soon  as  the  pieces  of  chicken  have 
become  tender,  thoroughly  stewed,  that  is  to  say,  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  cocoanut  "  milk,"  (the  infusion  I  previously 
mentioned),  should  be  stirred  in,  and  in  three  minutes  the 
operation  will  be  complete. 

If  a  semi-dry  or  dry  curry  be  required,  the  gravy  must 
be  still  further  reduced  by  simmering  with  the  lid  off,  the 
pieces  of  meat  being  continually  stirred  about  with  a 
wooden  spoon  to  prevent  their  catching  at  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  When  the  proper  amount  of  absorption  has  been 
attained,  remove  the  pan  and  serve. 

Now,  those  to  whom  the  slipshod   method  of  curry- 


296  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS, 

making,  ordinarily  followed  by  native  cooks,  is  familiar, 
will,  perhaps,  think,  that  the  process  I  have  recommended 
is  needlessly  tronblesome.  The  separate  frying  of  the 
chicken,  the  period  of  rest  in  the  hain-marie,  ^x.,  may 
seem  to  them  unnecessary.  I  am,  however,  perfectly  con- 
fident that  in  order  to  produce  a  dish  of  a  superior  class, 
we  must  be  prepared  to  take  all  this  trouble,  bringing  an 
enlightened  system  of  cookeiy  to  bear  upon  the  condi- 
ments and  ingredients  which,  so  to  speak,  provide  the 
curry  flavour.  1  look  ujwn  a  chicken  curry  as  a  fricasseey 
or  hlanquette  d,  V  Lidienne,  and  consider  that  it  should  cer- 
tainly Ix)  treated  accoi'ding  to  the  principles  of  scientific 
cookery. 

The  soaking  of  meat  in  the  liquid  curry-stuff  is  an  im- 
portant point,  especially  when  previously  cooked  meat  is 
to  be  curried.  Remember  how  much  better  a  salmis  or  a 
hash  tastes  if  the  meat  of  which  it  is  composed  has  been 
marinaded  for  an  hour  or  so,  before  being  finally  heated 
up,  in  the  carefully-made  gravy  or  sauce  composed  for  it. 

This,  I  think,  accounts  for  an  opinion  I  once  heard 
expressed  by  a  friend  of  undoubted  ability  in  culinary 
criticism,  to  the  effect  that  he  always  found  curries  of  a 
certain  kind  better  when  warned  up  and  served  as  a 
rechauffe  than  when  presented  for  the  first  time.  If  a 
gravy  curry  be  kept  during  the  night  in  a  china  curry 
dish,  and  be  resuscitated  the  next  morning  with  some  fresh 
butter,  onions  and  a  little  gravy,  it  ought,  if  anything,  to 
be  found  better  than  on  the  previous  night,  since  the  meat 
has  become  thoroughly  flavoured  by  the  curry  gravy, 
while  the  latter  has  become  reduced  and  so  strengthened 
by  the  second  simmering. 

These  directions  will  be  found  practicable  with  most 
ordinary  meat  curries.  Those  made  of  fresh  fish,  prawns, 
and   shellfish,  require  a  somewhat  different  process  while 


OUR    CURRIES,  297 


those  of  minced  cooked  meat,  tinned  or  cooked  fish,  dress- 
ed vegetables,  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  merely  require  to  be 
gently  heated  up  in  a  carefully  made  curry  gravy. 

The  Malay  or  "  Ceylon  curry"  as  it  is  sometimes  called, 
is,  of  course,  a  spScialite  and  there  are  hihdhs,  qiioormaS) 
^x.,  §x.,  that  need  separate  consideration. 


^^; 


oti^^i^TEi^  i^^i^^x::^^. 


Curries— continued,  and  Mulligatunny. 


tjPjHE  outward  bound  passenger  to  India  is  generally 
'hjty  very  favourably  struck  by  the  curry  presented  to 
him  at  a  Ceylon  hostelry.  Heartily  weary  of  the 
cuisine  on  boardship,  at  that  period  of  his  voyage,  he 
Avould  probably  welcome  any  change  w4th  thankfulness. 
The  prospect  of  a  little  meal  ashore,  "  be  it  ever  so  hum- 
ble," is  therefore  especially  enjoyable  to  him.  It  may,  of 
course,  be  said  that  in  such  circumstances  the  traveller  is 
predisposed  to  deliver  a  kindly  verdict ;  and  that  if  the 
dish  that  pleased  him  so  much  in  the  hour  of  his  eman- 
cipation from  cuddy  barbarisms  were  placed  before  him 
after  a  proper  course  of  civilized  diet,  it  would,  by  no 
means  produce  such  an  agreeable  impression.  It  would, 
at  all  events,  lack  the  charm  of  contrast,  which,  in  the 
particular  instance  before  us,  could  hardly  fail  to  excite 
the  warmest  feelings  of  gratitude  and  satisfaction. 

The  nautical  curry  is  not,  as  a  rule,  a  plat  to  dream  of, 
— a  triumph  to  look  back  upon  pleasurably,  that  is  to  say, 
with  the  half -closed  eye  of  a  connoisseur.  A  sea-faring 
friend  with  whom  I  once  made  a  very  cheery  voyage, 
graphically  described  the  composition  as  "  yellow  Irish 
stew."  Those  whose  memory  is  retentive  of  trifles  will 
no  doubt  call  to  mind  without  difficulty  a  bright  saffron- 
tinted  swill,   covering  sundry  knotty  lumps  of  potato  and 


CURRIES— CONTINUED.  299 

a  few  bony  atoms  of  mutton,  with  its  surface  beflecked, 
if  I  may  so  describe  it,  with  glossy  discs  of  molten  grease. 
Not  exactly  the  sort  of  dish  to  tempt  a  lady,  still  slightly 
affected  by  mal-de-vier,  who  has  been  urged  by  her  stew- 
ardess to  rouse  herself,  "  poor  dear,"  and  try  and  eat 
something.  Having  had  this  mess  thrust  before  him  day 
after  day  for  three  weeks,  no  wonder  that  the  "  vacuus 
viator'  finds  something  in  the  curry  of  Ceylon  to  delight 
him. 

"  Good  !  said  I  to  myself,  cheered  at  the  sight"  (a 
plump,  freshly-roasted  leveret),  wrote  Brillat  Savarin  con- 
cerning his  experiences  of  a  journey ;  "I  am  not  entirely 
abandoned  by  Providence  :  a  traveller  may  gather  a  floiver 
hy  the  iv  ay -side.'" 

Regarding  the  Ceylon  curry,  then,  as  a  "  flower  by  the 
way-side,"  let  us  proceed  to  consider  its  composition  v/ith 
all  due  attention.  As  I  observed  in  my  last  chapter,  the 
dish  is  quite  a  specialite,  peculiar  originally  to  places  where 
the  cocoanut  is  extensively  grown  and  appreciated.  It  is 
known  by  some  as  the  "  Malay  curry,"  and  it  is  closely 
allied  to  the  onoli  of  the  Tamils  of  Southern  India. 
Though  best  adapted  for  the  treatment  of  shell-fish,  ordi- 
nary fish,  and  vegetables  of  the  cucumis  or  gourd  family, 
it  may  be  advantageously  tried  with  chicken,  or  any  nice 
white  meat.  We  can  describe  it  as  a  species  of  fricassee, 
rich  with  the  nutty  juice  of  the  cocoanut,  and  very  deli- 
cately flavoured  with  certain  mild  condiments.  It  ought 
to  be  by  no  means  peppery  or  hot,  though  thin  strips  of 
red  and  green  chilli-skin  or  capsicum  may  be  associated 
with  it.  It  therefore  possesses  characteristics  very  differ- 
ent from  those  of  an  ordinary  curry.  The  knotty  point  is 
the  treatment  and  application  of  the  cocoanut,  which 
should  be  as  fresh  and  juicy  as  possible,  and  of  which 
there  should  be  no  stint. 

In  places  where  cocoanuts  cannot  be  readily  procured. 


300  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

a  very  good  "  mock"  Ceylon  curry  can  be  made  with  the 
milk  of  almonds,  and  from  Brazil  nuts  an  infusion  can  be 
concocted  that  very  much  resembles  cocoanut  milk. 

The  condiments  employed  are  onions,  a  very  little  garlic, 
green  ginger,  turmeric  powder,  a  little  powdered  cinna- 
mon and  cloves,  and  the  chilli  strips  aforesaid.  Coriander- 
seed,  cummin-seed,  cardomoms,  fenugi'eek,  chilli-powder, 
poppy-seed,  &c.,  ought,  on  no  account,  to  be  used. 

The  most  agreeable  combinations  are  prawns  with  cu- 
cumber, crab  with  vegetable  marrow,  or  any  firm-fleshed 
fish  or  tender  chicken  witli  either  of  those  vegetables. 
For  example,  I  will  select  a  prawn  and  cucumber  curry  : — 

(a) — Take  a  good-sized  cucumber,  or  two  small  ones, 
cut  them  lengthwise  into  quarters,  remove  the  seeds,  and 
peel  off  the  g^ee^  skin.  Cut  them  into  pieces  two  inches 
long  and  one  inch  thick,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  plenty  of  water,  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Simmer  them  until  three  pai'ts  done; 
then  drain  the  liquid  off,  and  turn  the  pieces  of  cucumber 
out  upon  a  clean  dish,  and  cover  them  up. 

(h) — The  prawns  should  be  prepared  very  carefully  ; 
and  here  permit  me  to  observe  that  if  prawns  are  fresh, 
and  properly  cleaned,  no  evil  effects  need  be  dreaded  by 
those  who  look  upon  them  as  dangerous.  Throw  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  salt  into  a  gallon  of  water,  put  the  pan 
on  the  fire,  and  when  the  water  boils  fast,  slip  into  it 
about  a  pound  and  a  half  of  prawns  weighed  in  their 
shells.  Boil,  and  as  soon  as  the  prawns  turn  a  rosy  pink, 
stop,  drain  them  from  the  water,  let  them  get  cold,  and 
shell  them,  removing  their  heads  completely.  Next  pass 
a  knife  down  the  line  of  the  back  of  each  prawn,  slightly 
open  the  groove  as  it  were,  and  pick  out  of  it  the  black 
gritty  dirt  that  you  will  find  there.  CaiTy  out  a  similar 
process  with  the  inner  line,  and  cast  the  cleaned  prawns 


CURRIES— CONTINUED.  301 

into  a  basin  of  spring  water.  Having  washed  them  again 
thoroughly,  pick  them  out,  and  dry  them  on  a  cloth.  If 
very  large,  you  must  now  divide  them  in  halves  length- 
wise, and  sever  each  half  in  twain.  Dust  them  over  with 
flour,  and  put  them  on  a  dish.     They  are  now  ready. 

(c) — Choose  a  very  large  cocoanut,  the  fresher  the  better, 
break  it  in  half,  and,  with  a  cocoanut  scraper,  remove  the 
whole  of  the  white  flesh,  casting  it  into  a  bowl.  Upon  the 
raspings  thus  obtained,  pour  a  breakfast-cupful  of  boiling 
water,  leave  it  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  strain 
the  liquid  off.  This  is  the  best  or  "  number  07ie'  infusion, 
which  must  be  put  away,  and  not  added  to  the  curry  till 
the  last  thing  before  serving.  Return  the  raspings  to 
their  bowl,  and  pour  over  them  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling 
water,  stir  well,  and  let  the  liquid  stand  for  half  an  hour. 
It  should  then  be  strained,  and  the  nutty  atoms  squeezed 
dry  in  muslin,  so  that  every  drop  of  the  cocoanut  essence 
may  be  secured.  The  liquor  thus  obtained  is  the  "  mim- 
her  two''  infusion.     Our  preparations  are  now  complete. 

{d) — Put  two  ounces  of  good  tinned  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and  mix  into  it,  as  it  melts  over  a  brisk  fire,  a  white 
Bombay  onion  shi^ed  into  rings,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  finely 
minced.  Lightly  fry,  but  do  not  allow  the  onions  to 
turn  colour  before  adding  a  table-spoonful  of  good 
flour,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  turmeric  powder,  a  tea- spoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  a  scant  one  of  sugar,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
mixed  cloves  and  cinnamon  powder,  and,  by  degrees,  the 
"  number  two  infusion."  A  breakfast-cupful  of  thick 
chicken  broth,  or  fish  consomme — made  by  simmering  some 
fish  bones,  prawn  shells,  and  scraps  of  fish,  in  water,  with 
an  onion,  a  carrot,  and  some  parsley — may  now  go  in  to 
assist  the  composition,  together  with  a  heaped-up  table- 
spoonful  of  sliced  green  ginger,  and  three  green  chillies 
cut  into  Julienne-like  strips.  The  liquid  is  now  ready  for 
the  prawns,  so  remove  the  stew-pan  from  the  fire,  and 

29 


S02  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS, 

place  it  in  a  bath  of  boiling  water,  to  keep  warm,  while 
you  add  the  prawns  and  the  slices  of  partly-cooked  cucum- 
ber. It  will  be  found  an  excellent  plan  to  permit  the 
curry — now  all  but  ready — to  rest  for  about  half  an  hour, 
at  the  expiration  of  which  the  pan  may  be  placed  over  a 
moderate  fire,  and  its  contents  brought  to  simmering  point. 
When  satisfied  that  both  the  prawTis  and  vegetable  are 
tender,  the  "  number  one"  infusion  may  be  stirred  in,  and 
with  it  a  tea-spoonful  of  lime-juice.  Five  minutes'  sim- 
mering will  now  complete  our  task,  and  the  curry  can 
be  dished  up,  and  served. 

It  should  be  noted  carefully  that  the  water  found  inside 
a  cocoanut  is  not  "  cocoanut  milk"  accoi*ding  to  the  culi- 
nary vocabulary.  The  infusion  is  what  should  be  used  in 
curry-making. 

Fillets  of  any  firm-fleshed  fish,  or  even  neat  fillets  of 
chicken,  may  be  treated  precisely  in  the  manner  I  have 
described.  As,  however,  it  is  necessary  partly  to  cook 
prawns,  crabs,  lobsters,  shrimps,  &c.,  separately,  a  longer 
process  of  simmering  will  be  necessary  for  raw  fillets. 
The  pieces  of  chicken  should  be  lightly  tossed  in  butter  in 
a  sait^t'-pan  with  a  finely-shred  onion,  before  being  put  into 
the  curry  sauce. 

The  MOLi  is  prepared  in  this  manner  : — Melt  a  couple  of 
ounces  of  butter,  and  fry  therein  an  onion  sliced  into  rings, 
and  a  clove  of  garlic  minced,  a  few  stHps  of  green  chilli, 
and  some  slices  of  green  ginger  ;  stir  into  it  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  flour,  and  add  by  degrees  the  "  number  two  infusion" 
just  alluded  to.  Work  this  to  the  consistency  of  a  rich 
white  sauce  adding  a  little  broth  if  necessary,  heat  up 
some  slices  of  cooked  fish  or  chicken  in  it,  and  finish  off, 
as  already  described,  with  "  number  one  infusion,"  and  a 
tea-spoonful  of  lime-juice.  A  little  turmeric  powder  may 
be  used  if  the  yellow  colour  be  considered  desirable.  If 
raw  fish  be  used,  the  simmering  process  will  be  necessarv 


CURRIES— CONTINUED.  303 

Old  Indian  cookery  books  give  a  number  of  recipes  for 
KTJBAB  curries,  for  tbe  most  part  of  purely  native  design, 
and  requiring  condiments  and  ingredients  whicli  were  per- 
haps appreciated  by  our  forefathers  who  adopted  an  almost 
Oriental  method  of  life.  The  best  hubab,  to  my  mind,  us 
one  made  of  tender  mutton  or  veal,  and  treated  as  fol- 
lows '. — 

Cut  the  mutton  into  thickish  pieces,  about  an  inch 
square  and  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  out  of  some  slices  of 
good  bacon  some  pieces  an  inch  square  also,  but  about  a 
quarter  the  thickness  of  the  mutton  ;  cut  up  some  pieces 
of  parboiled  white  onion  upon  the  same  pattern  as  the 
bacon,  and  some  thin  slices  of  green  ginger  to  match. 
Impale  these  mixed  pieces  upon  small  plated  or  silver 
skewers,  or  upon  thinly-cut  wooden  ones,  maintaining  the 
order  I  have  given,  viz.,  jBrst  a  piece  of  mutton,  then  a  piece 
of  bacon,  then  a  bit  of  onion,  and  lastly,  the  thin  slice  of 
green  ginger.  Having  repeated  this  until  the  skewer  is 
filled,  go  on  with  another.  When  all  have  been  completed, 
the  huhdhs  should  be  simmered  in  a  good  curry  sauce  as 
recommended  for  chicken  curry.  Before  being  added  to 
the  sauce,  however,  they  should  be  lightly  tossed  in  butter 
in  a  saute-ip2in  with  an  onion  sliced,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  one  of  sugar.  The  introduction  of  the  slice  of  bacon 
is  a  very  great  improvement. 

The  "  QUOOKMA,"  if  well  made,  is  undoubtedly  an  excel- 
lent curry.  It  used,  I  believe,  to  be  one  of  the  best  at  the 
Madras  Club,  in  days  when  curries  commanded  closer 
attention  than  they  do  now. 

Cut  up  about  a  pound  of  very  tender  mutton  without 
any  bone,  and  stir  the  pieces  about  in  a  big  bowl  with  a 
dessert- spoonful  of  pounded  green  ginger,  and  a  sprinkling 
of  salt.  Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan,  and  throw  into  it  a  couple  of  white  ^onions  cut  int® 


304  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

rings,  and  a  couple  of  cloves  of  garlic  finely  minced.  Fry 
for  about  five  minutes,  and  then  add  a  tea-spoonful  of 
pounded  coriander-seed,  one  of  pounded  black  pepper,  half 
one  of  pounded  cardomoms,  and  half  one  of  pounded  cloves. 
Cook  this  for  five  minutes,  then  put  in  the  meat,  and  stir 
over  a  moderate  fire  until  the  pieces  seem  tender,  and  have 
browned  nicely.  Now,  take  the  pan  from  the  fii*e,  and 
work  into  it  a  strong  infusion  obtained  from  four  ounces 
of  well-pounded  almonds,  and  a  breakfast-cupful  of  cream. 
Mix  thoroughly,  adding  a  dessert-spoonful  of  turmeric 
powder,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar.  Put  the  pan  over  a 
very  low  fire,  and  let  the  curry  simmer  as  gently  as  possi- 
ble for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  finishing  o£E  with  the  juice  of 
a  couple  of  limes.  This,  it  will  be  perceived,  is  another 
curry  of  a  rich  yet  mild  description.  The  total  absence 
of  chilli,  indeed,  constitutes,  in  the  opinion  of  many,  its 
chief  attraction. 

According  to  the  ancient  canons  by  which  the  service 
of  curries  was  regulated,  chutneys  of  various  kinds  were 
considered  as  essentially  necessary  as  the  lordly  platter  of 
rice  which,  of  course,  accompanied  them.  These  may  bo 
divided  into  two  distinct  classes  :  the  preserved  or  bottled 
chutneys,  and  those  that  are  made  of  fresh  materials  on 
the  spot.  Of  the  former  I  need  say  nothing  :  they  arc 
easily  procured,  and  most  people  know  the  kind  that  suits 
them  best.  But  concerning  the  latter,  I  think  a  little 
reflection  will  be  found  advantageous.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  the  presentation  of  these  chutneys, — the  little 
liors  d'oeuvres,  so  to  speak,  of  the  curry  service, — has  of 
late  years  passed  quietly  into  desuetude.  This  has  been 
the  result,  to  be  sure,  of  the  disappearance  of  cuiTies  from 
the  memi  of  the  modern  dinner,  and  the  very  moderate 
degree  of  attention  that  they  now  command  at  our  hands. 
Assuming,  however,  that  those  who  still  occasionally 
patronize  the   dish   would  rather  see  it  at  its  best,   and 


CURRIES— CONTINUED.  305 

served  correctly  than  not,  I  will  go  on  with  a  few  recipes 
that  will  be  found  easy  enough. 

Fresh  chutneys  should  be  served  in  saucers  which  should 
be  tastefully  arranged  upon  a  tray.  Four  or  five  varieties 
can  be  presented  together,  so  that  there  may  be  an  oppor- 
tunity of  selection. 

Caviare  dressed  with  a  few  drops  of  lime  juice  and  a 
dust  of  yellow  pepper  ;  roes  of  fish  pounded  with  a  little 
butter  J  potted  prawns  ;  potted  ham  ;  crab  paste  ;  lobster 
paste  ;  and  sardine  paste,  are  Jiors  d'oeuvres  that  can  accom- 
pany the  chutneys  and  materially  assist  them. 

The  best  fresh  chutneys  are  :  tomato,  cucumber,  mint, 
brinjal,  cocoanut,  mango  or  apple,  tamarind,  and  potato. 

For  tomato  chutney  : — Remove  the  seeds  and  watery 
juice  from  two  or  three  ripe  tomatoes,  chop  them  up  with 
a  quarter  their  bulk  of  white  onion,  and  season  the  mince 
with  a  little  salt ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  green  chillies 
chopped  small,  and  a  little  bit  of  celery  also  chopped,  give 
the  whole  a  dust  of  black  pepper,  and  moisten  it  with  a 
tea-spoonful  of  vinegar — anchovy  vinegar  for  choice. 

For  cucumber  cliutney  : — Cut  the  cucumber  into  thin 
strips  an  inch  long  ;  say  three  heaped  up  table-spoonfuls ; 
mix  with  them  a  tea-spoonful  of  finely-minced  onion,  one 
of  chopped  gTeen  chilli,  and  one  of  parsley ;  moisten  with 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  vinegar  in  which  a  pinch  of  sugar 
has  been  dissolved,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  and 
dust  over  it  salt  and  black  pepper  at  discretion. 

Brinjal  cJiiitney  is  made  in  this  manner : — Boil  two  or 
three  brinjals,  let  them  get  cold,  scrape  out  the  whole  of 
the  inside  of  the  pods,  pass  this  through  the  sieve  to  get 
rid  of  the  seeds.  Rub  a  soup-plate  with  a  clove  of  garlic, 
empty  the  brinjal  pulp  therein,  dress  it  with  a  tea- spoon- 
ful of  minced  onion,  one  of  green   chilli,  one  of  vinegar, 


306  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

and  a  very  little  green  ginger,  season  with  salt  and  black 
pepper,  pat  the  mixtni'e  into  a  little  mould,  and  serve  in  a 
saucer. 

Cocoanut  chutyiey  consists  of  pounded  cocoanut,  flavoured 
with  minced  onion  and  green  chilli,  green  ginger,  and  an 
atom  of  garlic,  moistened  with  tamarind  juice,  and  season- 
ed with  red  pepper  and  salt. 

Mint  chutney  is  made  in  the  same  way,  substituting 
pounded  mint  for  cocoanut.  Scald  the  mint  leaves  before 
pounding  them. 

Mango  or  apple  chutney  is  made  like  cucumber  chutney 
with  the  addition  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  chopped  green  ginger. 

Tamarind  chutney  is  a  good  one  : — Pound  together  a 
table-spoonful  of  tamarind  pulp  and  one  of  green  ginger, 
season  it  with  salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  minced  green  chillies, 
and  one  of  mustard  seed  roasted  in  butter  ;  mix  thorough- 
ly and  serve. 

Mashed  potato  chutney  is  flavoured  witli  minced  onion, 
green  chilli,  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar. 
With  tfiese  relishes,  curries  are  undoubtedly  far  nicer 
than  when  sent  up  unassisted. 

Treacher's  tinned  Bombay  duclcs  when  presented  with 
curries  only  require  crisping  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Papodums  may  either  be  toasted  on  a  griddle  over  some 
clear  embers,  or  fried  in  hot  fat.  Thin  slices  of  raw 
brinjal,  and  green  plantains,  similarly  fried,  like  potato 
chips,  are  nice  with  curries. 

Mulligatunny. 

If  it  be  admitted  that  the  knack  of  curry-making  has 
gradually  passed  away  from  the  native  cook,  I  think  it 
must  also  be  allowed  that  a  really  well-made  mulligatunny 
is,  comparatively  speaking,  a  thing  of  the  past.     Perhaps, 


MULLIGATUNNY.  307 


then,  a  few  words  regarding  this  really  excellent,  and  at 
times,  most  invigorating  soup  may  be  acceptable.  In 
attempting  this,  I  am  anxious  to  address  my  observations 
to  vegetarians,  as  well  as  to  those  who  have  no  objection 
to  eat  meat,  for  I  hope  to  be  able  to  show  that  a  very  ex- 
cellent mulligatunny  can  be  made  without  any  assistance 
from  flesh  or  fowl. 

This  preparation,  originally  peculiar  to  Southern  India, 
derives  its  name  from  two  Tamil  words — molegoo  (pepper), 
and  tunnee  (water).  In  its  simple  form,  as  partaken  of 
by  the  poorer  natives  of  Madras,  it  is,  as  its  name  indi- 
cates, a  "  pepper-water"  or  soupe  maigre,  which  Mootoo- 
samy  makes  as  follows  : — He  pounds  together  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  tamarind,  six  red  chillies,  six  cloves  of  garlic, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard  seed,  a  salt-spoonful  of  fenugreek 
seed,  twelve  black  peppercorns,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
six  leaves  of  haray-jpauh.  When  worked  to  a  paste,  he 
adds  a  pint  of  water,  and  boils  the  mixture  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  While  this  is  going  on,  he  cuts  up  two  small 
onions,  puts  them  into  a  chatty,  and  fries  them  in  a  des- 
sert-spoonful of  ghee  till  they  begin  to  turn  brown,  when 
he  strains  the  pepper- water  into  the  chatty,  and  cooks  the 
mixture  for  five  minutes,  after  which  it  is  ready.  The 
pepper-water  is,  of  course,  eaten  with  a  large  quantity  of 
boiled  rice,  and  is  a  meal  in  itself.  The  English,  taking 
their  ideas  from  this  simple  composition,  added  other 
condiments,  with  chicken,  mutton,  &c.,  thickened  the 
liquid  with  flour  and  butter,  and  by  degrees  succeeded  in 
concocting  a  soupe  grasse  of  a  decidedly  acceptable  kind. 

Oddly  enough,  we  undoubtedly  get  the  best  mulliga- 
tunny now-a-days  in  England,  where  it  is  presented  in  the 
form  of  a  clear,  as  well  as  in  that  of  a  thick,  soup.  In  an 
artistic  point  of  view,  the  former  is  infinitely  the  better  of 
the  two,  as  I  shall  endeavour  to  explain  later  on.  N'ever- 
theless,  the  thick  is  by  no  means  to  be  despised.     The 


308  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

superiority  of  the  English  adaptation  needs  bnt  little 
explanation,  for  it  may  safely  be  attributed  to  the  fact  that 
the  soup  is  composed  upon  a  really  strong  foundation  in 
the  shape  of  stock,  an  important  point  that  most  Indian 
cooks  slur  over. 

This  reminds  me  of  an  anecdote,  which  an  old  friend 
and  fellow-enthusiast  on  the  subject  of  cookery,  communi- 
cated to  me  as  follows  : — He  was  at  home  on  furlough,  and 
happened  to  visit  an  old  uncle,  whose  early  years  had  been 
spent  in  the  Navy.  The  Admiral  (for  the  old  gentleman 
had  attained  that  rank)  was  of  a  somewhat  dictatorial 
nature,  and  had  acquired  a  habit  of  asserting  his  opinions 
with  a  closed  fist  and  vehement  superlatives.  Conversa- 
tion one  day  turned  upon  mulligatunny,  and  the  ancient 
mariner  declared  vociferously  that  he  had  never  tasted 
the  soup  properly  made  since  serving  in  the  West  Indies 
in  the  Fenelopc  frigate  in  the  year  1823,  angi'ily  shutting 
up  his  nephew  for  daring  to  observe  that  it  could  be  fairly 
well  prepared  in  the  East.  Now,  my  friend  was  far  too 
wise  in  his  generation  to  contradict  his  uncle,  "  but,"  said 
he,  "  I  determined  to  circumvent  him."  Accordingly 
Avhen,  after  some  little  time,  the  Admiral  went  up  to 
London,  he  was  lured  into  an  ambuscade  at  his  nephew's 
house.  "  I  made  the  imdligatiuiny  myself,"  said  my  friend, 
"  the  basis  of  which  Avas  a  good  veal  stock,  prepared,  of 
course,  the  previous  day.  My  method  of  procedure  was 
as  follows  : — I  cut  up  a  large  sweet  onion  into  fine  rings, 
and  fried  them  in  two  ounces  of  good  butter,  till  about  to 
turn  yellow.  I  then  stirred  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of 
Barrie's  Madras  mulligaUmny  paste,  adding  sufficient  stock 
to  bring  tlie  mixture  to  the  consistency  of  mayonnaise 
sauce.  This  I  tasted,  and,  finding  that  it  required  a  little 
sub-acid,  I  administered  a  table-spoonful  of  red  currant 
jelly  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Having  stirred  this 
in  well,  I  put  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Madras  chutney,  and 


MULLIGATUNNY.  309 


added  stock  enough  to  produce  a  thin  soup — about  three 
pints  in  all.  This  I  allowed  to  simmer  (to  extract  the 
flavours  of  the  various  ingredients)  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  while  I  pounded  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  in  a 
mortar  with  a  little  milk,  using  a  breakfast-cupful  al- 
together. When  fully  pounded,  I  strained  the  almond 
milk  into  the  soup,  and  stopped  the  simmering.  The  next 
step  was  to  pass  the  whole  of  the  liquid  through  a  tin 
strainer  into  a  clean  bowl  to  catch  up  lumps  of  onion, 
chutney,  &c.  The  mulligatunny  having  been  skimmed, 
was  now  ready,  all  but  the  thickening.  This  process  was 
carried  out  in  due  course,  with  two  ounces  of  butter  and 
two  of  flour.  The  soup  was  brought  to  boiling-point,  and, 
off  the  fire,  just  before  serving,  a  coffee-cupful  of  the  best 
cream  I  could  get  was  stirred  into  the  tureen  as  the  soup 
was  poured  into  it."  "When  this  was  presented  to  the 
Admiral,  the  old  gentleman  was  delighted,  and,  altogether 
forgetting  his  previous  asseveration,  exclaimed  that  he  had 
not  eaten  such  a  basin  of  mulligatunny  since  serving  on 
the  East  India  station  in  the  CocJcatrice  in  the  year  1834. 
"  I  knew,"  concluded  by  friend,  "  that  the  dear  old  man 
was  thinking  of  '  calipash'  and  '  calipee'  when  he  pitched 
into  me  on  the  previous  occasion,  but  I  was  not  such  an 
ass  as  to  suggest  that  he  had  made  a  mistake." 

This  recipe  of  my  friend's  may  be  taken  as  a  very  good 
guide  for  a  mulligatunny  made  with  pure  meat  stock 
extracted  from  veal,  mutton,  beef,  or  fowl,  and  ready-made 
paste.  Yolks  of  eggs  may  supply  the  place  of  cream,  and 
cocoanut  milk  may  be  substituted  for  the  lait  d'amandes. 
The  addition  of  either  almond  or  cocoanut  milk  is,  how- 
ever, a  sine  qua  non,  if  the  object  be  to  obtain  a  soft, 
creamy,  well-flavoured,  thick  mulligatunny .  The  strain- 
ing must  also  be  carried  out  carefully,  and  the  thickening 
as  well. 

Rice  is  served  with  mulligatunny,  but  it  is,  I  think,  a 

30 


I 


810  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 


mistake  to  do  so.  We  do  not  call  for  rice  with  hare  soup, 
game  soup,  or  mock-tui'tle  ;  why,  then,  should  we  ruin  our 
appetites  by  taking  rice  with  so  satisfying  a  yotage  as 
mull iga tunny  ?  The  custom  has  been  handed  down  to  us 
by  our  forefathers,  who,  of  course,  ate  rice  with  their 
mulligatuHJiy,  as  did  the  natives  from  Avliom  they  learnt 
the  dish. 

The  object  in  a  clear  mnlligatiinny  is  to  present  a  bright, 
sparkling  consomme  of  the  colour  of  clear  turtle,  with  a 
decided  flavour  of  imdligatnnny,  and  slightly  peppery. 
Now,  if  you  try  to  communicate  the  flavour  with  ready- 
made  curry-powder  or  paste,  in  which  there  is  a  certain 
quantity  of  turmeric,  you  will  experience  considerable 
difficulty  in  getting  your  soup  bright  and  clear.  Pounded 
coriander  seed,  too,  is  oily,  and  would  probably  cause 
trouble.  So  the  easiest  method  is  to  put  a  muslin  bag, 
containing  the  flavouring  ingredients,  into  the  soup  kettle 
with  tlic  vegetables,  and  to  remove  it  as  soon  as  the  C07i- 
somme  is  satisfactorily  impregnated  with  the  wished-for 
aroma.  The  pepperiness  is  best  imparted  with  a  few  drops 
of  tabasco  as  a  finishing  touch,  or  of  chilli-vinegar  if 
tabasco  be  unobtainable. 

The  following  proportions  will,  I  think,  be  found  satis- 
factory as  far  as  the  flavouring  is  concerned  : — Two  ounces 
of  coriander  seed,  one  ounce  of  cummin  seed,  one  ounce  of 
fenugi'eek  or  maythee,  half  an  ounce  of  mustard  seed,  two 
cloves  of  garlic,  a  dozen  black  peppercorns,  and  four  or 
five  leaves  of  hurreapliool,  or  Izodia  neem  (karay-pauk). 
All  put  into  a  muslin  bag,  without  pounding  or  bruising, 
boiled  with  the  soup,  and  removed  as  soon  as  the  flavour 
is  satisfactory.  These  quantities  are  estimated  for  above 
three  pints  of  clear  consomme ;  but  as  tastes  vary  in  the 
matter  of  condiments,  they  are  obviously  susceptible  of 
alteration  at  discretion. 

I  would  abstain  from  the  use  of  all  ordinary  spices  for 


MULLIGATUNNY.  311 

fear  of  disturbing  the  flavour  derived  from  the  currj-stuff. 
The  soup  itself  may  be  ordinary  consomme,  consomme  de 
volaille  or  blond  de  veau.  Clear  ox-tail  thus  flavoured  is 
well-known  at  the  Army  and  Navy  Club  in  London  under 
the  name  of  q^ueue  de  hceuf  a  VIndienne. 

Fish  consomme,  i.e.,  a  stock  made  from  fish  and  vege- 
tables, makes  a  capital  basis  for  a  thick  mulUgatunny  ; 
and  a  bisque  or  puree  of  shell-fish,  flavoured  with  curry- 
paste,  is  a  right  royal  potage. 

Vegetarians  can  fall  back  upon  a  stock  composed  of 
vegetables,  consomme  de  legumes.  This,  artfully  flavoiu'ed 
with  a  good  mulUgatunny  paste,  thickened  with  flour  and 
butter,  and  enriched  with  lait  d'amandes,  cocoanut  milk, 
cream,  or  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  w411  be  found  to  make  a  most 
excellent  soupe  maigre. 

The  stock  should  be  composed  as  follows  : — Weigh,  when 
trimmed  and  cut  up,  one  pound,  each,  of  carrots  and 
onions.  Throw  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  half  a  pound 
of  butter  (tinned  butter  will  do  well),  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  a  couple  of  ounces  of  celery.  Fry  until  the  vegetables 
begin  to  take  colour,  then  moisten  with  two  quarts  of  hot 
water.  Boil  and  skim,  then  put  into  the  pan  half  an 
ounce  of  salt,  a  quarter  ounce  of  black  peppercorns,  and  a 
pint  measure  of  shelled  green  peas.  Simmer  for  three 
hours,  skim  off  any  oil  that  may  rise  from  the  butter,  and 
strain  the  broth  into  a  basin  through  a  tamis. 

Be  careful  in  using  turnips.  Unless  they  are  very 
young  they  are  apt  to  be  overstrongly  flavoured  in  this 
country.  Leeks  are  invaluable  ;  if  available  I  would  put 
half  a  pound  of  them  in  with  the  carrots ;  a  few  sprigs  of 
thyme  or  marjoram  are  also  useful.  A  pint  of  French 
beans  may  be  used  instead  of,  or  in  addition  to,  the  peas. 
This  consomme  is,  with  a  dash  of  white  wine,  quite  fit  to 
serve  alone.  Maccaroni  or  vermicelli  may  be  added  to  it 
as  a  garnish,  and  grated  Parmesan  may  accompany  it. 


312  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

For  ordinary  mulligatunni)  maigre,  however,  plain  eau 
de  cuisson  may  be  employed.  This  most  useful  liquid  is 
too  often  thrown  away  by  ignorant  native  cooks,  or  an- 
nexed by  the  wary  ones  for  theii'  own  food.  It  is  the 
water  in  which  certain  vegetables  have  been  boiled.  As 
a  matter  of  economy,  house-keepers  should  make  a  note  of 
this.  Suppose  you  want  to  make  a  salade  cuite,  i.e.,  a 
salad  of  cooked  vegetables,  the  water  in  which  the  carrots, 
onions,  leeks,  peas,  flageolets,  French  beans,  and  young 
turnips  are  boiled  will  provide  you  with  an  excellent  stock 
for  ordinary  white  sauce,  or  imdligaianny. 

The  ordinary  chicken  or  mutton  imdligatunny,  made 
without  assistance  in  the  way  of  stock,  may,  with  some 
little  pains,  be  sent  up  in  better  style  than  our  cooks,  as  a 
rule,  are  satisfied  with.  We  do  not  want  a  thin  yellow 
liquid  with  queer-looking  leaves  and  bits  of  fried  onion 
floating  in  it.  "We  ask  for  a  smooth,  creamy  jjo/a^e,  free 
from  any  lump  or  floating  substance,  and  garnished  with 
a  few  choice  pieces  of  the  chicken  or  mutton  of  which  it 
was  composed. 

Cut  up  a  well-nurtured  chicken  or  young  fowl  as  if  for 
fricassee,  soak  the  pieces  in  cold  water  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  then  slice  up  a  couple  of  good-sized  onions,  and  put 
them,  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  into  a  stew-pan 
on  a  good  fire.  Fry  the  chicken  and  onions  together  till 
slightly  browned,  then  pick  out  the  chicken,  and  stir  into 
the  butter  a  couple  of  table-spoonfuls  of  mulligahmny 
paste  or  curry-powder  (Barrie's  "Madras,"  if  possible). 
Cook  the  paste  or  powder  with  the  butter  and  onions  for 
five  minutes,  and  then  stir  in  a  couple  of  pints  of  warm 
water.  Add  the  chicken  ;  and  if  the  pieces  are  not  quite 
covered,  put  in  water  enough  to  do  so.  Let  the  contents 
come  to  the  boil,  then  ease  off  the  fire,  and  simmer  for  half 
an  hour  very  gently.  While  this  is  going  on,  pound  a 
couple  of  ounces  of  almonds  in  a  mortar,  with  a  coffee- 


MULLIGATUNNY.  313 

cupful  of  milk,  give  it  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  let  the  mix- 
ture stand  till  wanted.  Now,  having  ascertained  that  the 
chicken  is  quite  tender,  stir  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  good 
chutney,  a  tea-spoonful  of  red  currant  jellv,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lime-juice,  and,  after  five  minutes'  simmering, 
strain  off  the  whole  of  the  liquid  into  a  bowl.  Pick  out 
the  nicest  pieces  of  chicken  for  garnish,  and  put  them 
aside.  Now,  skim  the  surface  of  the  liquid,  and,  when 
quite  clear  of  grease,  proceed  to  thicken  it,  using  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  and  stirring  in  the  soup 
slowly.  All  having  been  poui^ed  in,  strain  into  the  sauce- 
pan the  almond  milk,  using  a  piece  of  muslin  in  order  to 
catch  up  the  bits  of  nut.  Let  the  mulligatunny  come  to 
the  boil,  and  serve. 

The  chief  points  to  observe  are  : — First,  the  use  of  a 
really  good  paste  or  powder  ;  next  the  simmering  and  ad- 
dition of  a  pleasant  sub-acid  ;  then  the  straining,  skim- 
ming, and  thickening  ;  and  lastly,  the  introduction  of  the 
almond  milk.  Instead  of  almond  milk,  cocoanut  milk  (the 
infusion  of  the  nut,  I  mean)  may  be  used,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream,  or  a  couple  of  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  may  be 
stirred  into  the  tureen  with  the  soup,  by  degrees,  just 
before  serving.  The  choice  pieces  of  chicken  should  also 
be  served  in  the  mulligatunny . 

For  mutton  mulligatunny  follow  this  recipe,  substitut- 
ing a  neck  or  breast  of  mutton  for  the  chicken. 

It  will  be  seen  from  these  observations  that,  while  there 
is  no  difficulty  whatever  in  making  mulligatunny  of  a 
superior,  as  well  as  of  an  ordinary  kind,  it  is  a  soup  that 
demands  no  little  care  and  attention.  Whether  it  is  worth 
the  trouble  or  not  is  a  question  that  can  only  be  decided 
by  practical  experiment.  I  have  no  hesitation  in  recom- 
mending the  trial. 

♦ 


Otl^i^IPTII]!^ 


Camp  Cookery. 

wA%  LTHOUGH  no  doubt  there  arc  many  of  my  readers 
:xTV  ^^'^^  have  by  long  experience  acquired  the  knack 
^^  of  making  themselves  thoroughl}'  comfortable 
under  canvas,  and  who,  being  fond  of  nice  food,  and  an 
fait  in  culinary  science,  contrive  to  eat  and  drink  in  camp 
as  luxuriously  as  in  cantonment,  there  must  be,  I  take  it, 
a  good  many  travellers,  sportsmen,  soldiers,  and  others 
whose  duties  demand  several  months  of  tent-life ^er  annum^ 
who  would  like  to  pick  up  a  wrinkle  or  two  in  the  matter 
of  cookery  under  difficulties. 

A  friend  of  mine,  who  in  addition  to  his  passionate 
devotion  to  Ja  chasse,  possesses  the  keenest  affection  for 
his  dinner,  assured  me,  once  upon  a  time,  that  good  bread 
was  the  back-bone  of  happiness, — gustatory  happiness, 
that  is  to  say, — in  the  jungle.  In  cantonment  even,  this 
man  despised  the  miserable  travesty  called  bread  furnished 
by  the  native  baker.  They  say  that  he  once  saiv  it  heing 
made,  never  thought  of  it  again  without  a  shudder,  and 
preferred  a  home-made  roll  for  ever  afterwards.  He  car- 
ried his  roll  with  him,  so  to  speak,  into  camjD,  and  with 
the  aid  of  a  talented  servant,  was  able  to  bake  hot,  clean, 
white  bread  daily,  at  a  distance  of  many  marches  from  an 
English  dwelling  place.  He  used  Yeatman's  baking 
powder,   imported  Australian  or  American  flour,   and  a 


CAMP  COOKERY.  3L 


little  salt.  Butter  and  milk  were  aclcled  in  the  case  of  his 
fancy  petit  loain,  and  he  occasionally  mixed  oatmeal  with 
the  flour  for  variety. 

I  often  envied  my  friend's  bread,  yet  never  took  the 
trouble  to  follow  his  example  until  comparatively  lately. 
My  conversion  was  brought  about  by  Mr.  Woolf  of  119, 
New  Bond  Street,  who  introduced  me  to  the  "  Acme  cook- 
ing stove,"*  and  gave  me  many  a  seance  with  regard  to 
the  use  of  Yeatman's  baking  powder  for  which  his  firm 
are  the  London  Agents.  The  man  who  could  remain  un- 
convinced after  one  of  Mr.  Woolf 's  pleasant  demonstrations, 
would  be  a  stoic  indeed.  You  are  shown  how  to  make  a 
pound  loaf, — "  cottage"  pattern,  in  rolls,  or  in  the  tin. 
This  is  placed  in  the  stove  oven  whilst  you  examine  the 
numerous  clever  contrivances  for  the  kitchen, — jorincipally 
American  inventions, — which  form  the  specialites  of  the 
establishment.  In  less  than  half  an  hour  the  loaf,  baked 
to  perfection,  is  placed  upon  the  table. 

!N'ow  here  are  two  invaluable  articles  for  the  dweller  in 
tents  : — a  composition,  perfectly  climate-proof,  by  which 
he  can  turn  out  an  excellent  loaf  of  light,  clean  bread ; 
and  the  oven  to  bake  it  in. 

The  "  Acme  Stove"  is  cheap,  portable,  strong,  and  easily 
managed.  It  is  fed  by  mineral  oil,  kerosine  or  parafine, 
and  in  addition  to  the  oven,  provides  the  cook  with  a 
capital  kitchen  range  adapted  for  boiling,  stewing,  frying, 
and  even  grilling.  The  size  I  recommend,  after  upwards 
of  two  years'  experience  of  its  working, — more  than  a  year 
of  that  time  having  been  spent  at  Madras, — is  fitted  with 
double  wicks  four  inches  wide.  One  of  these  stoves  with 
its  ordinary  appurtenances  can  be  purchased  for  £2,  5.15. 
For  that  sum  you  have  a  capital  oven,  with  baking  dishes 

*  Now  eclipsed  by  the  "  Florence"  which  is  worked  exactly  like  the 
Acm6"  but  with  numerous  improvements. — W. 


316  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

and  a  griddle,  a  radiator,  a  kettle,  and  a  frying-pan. 
Ordinary  sauce-pans  of  a  certain  diameter  can  be  used 
with  it.  A  Warren's  cooking  pot,  fitted  to  the  stove,  is 
furnished  for  £1-1,  and  a  griller  for  five  shillings  and 
sixpence.  "When  not  wanted  for  cooking,  it  can  bo  used 
for  heating  a  room,  for  which  purpose,  you  use  the  radiator, 
or  ornamental  chimney,  previously  mentioned.  Thus 
adjusted,  it  is  also  very  useful  for  airing  damp  linen,  or 
drying  wet  clothes  ;  you  have  merely  to  place  a  largo 
circular  basket  over  it,  and  spread  the  things  thereon,  for 
the  chimney  is  so  contrived  that  the  heat  radiates  laterally, 
and  there  is  therefore  no  chance  of  burning,  scorching,  or 
smoking. 

In  camp,  the  first  thing  the  Acme  would  do  for  you 
would  be  to  boil  the  water  for  your  tea :  if  a  raw 
December,  or  January  morning  in  the  Deccan,  or  on  the 
plateau  of  Mysore,  you  would  not  object  to  the  operation 
being  performed  inside  your  tent,  for  the  warmth  would 
be  very  pleasant.  It  would  then  bake  the  bread  for  your 
breakfast,  and  warm  up  any  rechauffe  destined  for  that 
meal  at  the  same  time.  During  the  day  it  would  make 
the  soup,  and  in  the  evening  be  available  for  work  for 
dinner.  I  do  not  say  that  you  could  do  without  a  charcoal 
fire,  but  the  stove  would  do  a  large  portion  of  the  day's 
cooking,  and  in  a  way  vastly  superior  to  any  ordinary  fire, 
either  in  camp  or  cantonment.  In  soup-making,  for 
instance,  and  in  stewing  operations,  you  possess  the  power 
of  producing  the  exact  amount  of  heat  you  need  by  turning 
down  the  wicks  at  will.  I  have  made  a  pot-au-feu,  in  a 
Warren's  kettle  placed  upon  my  Acme,  the  like  of  w^hich 
I  defy  a  native  cook  to  produce  with  a  common  cook-room 
fire,  simply  on  account  of  this  regulating  power.  A  gallon 
flask  of  kerosine  oil  should  be  made  to  fit  the  stove  box 
for  short  periods  of  camp  life.  If  a  man  were  settled  in  a 
standing  camp,   or  out   in  his   district  for  an   indefinite 


CAMP  COOKERY.  317 


period,  he  would,  of  course,  require  a  keg  of  oil.  I  use  my 
stove  for  some  houi's  daily,  and  my  month's  expenditure 
does  not  exceed  ten  quart  bottles. 

Another  of  Mr.  Woolf's  valuable  inventions,  which  I 
can  strongly  advise  the  traveller  to  obtain,  is  the  "  Lang 
spirit  lamp"  :  the  large  one  costs  five  shillings  and  six- 
pence, and  is  a  never  failing  source  of  comfort  on  a 
journey.  In  camp  it  would  be  found  a  most  useful 
appendage  to  the  Acme  stove  for  light  work,  such  as  boil- 
ing milk  for  coffee,  cooking  eggs  in  all  sorts  of  ways,  heat- 
ing sauces,  frying  bacon,  &c.  I  use  mine  for  omelettes 
almost  every  day  in  cantonment,  for  which  work  it  is 
admirably  adapted.  With  a  "  Lang  lamp"  you  can  make 
a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee  in  the  train,  by  the  side  of  the  road, 
on  arrival  at  a  public  bungalow,  or  under  a  tree  whilst  the 
lascars  are  pitching  your  tent :  and  by  its  aid,  and  that  of 
a  small  frying-pan,  you  can  devil  a  biscuit,  fry  a  rasher, 
poach  an  egg,  or  cook  a  kidney,  to  accompany  the  tea  or 
coffee.  It  is  fed  by  methylated  spirit,  a  gallon  of  which 
would  last  for  at  least  two  months. 

Having  thus  directed  your  attention  to  two  excellent 
appliances  for  the  camp  kitchen,*  I  will  return  to  the  sub- 
ject of  baking  bread,  for  your  servants  can  always  contrive 
a  field  oven  for  you  without  difficulty,  which,  though 
infinitely  inferior  to  that  of  the  stove,  will  perform  the 
task  required  of  it  fairly  enough.  But  in  wet  weather, 
the  owner  of  an  Acme  will,  of  course,  laugh  and  grow  fat, 
whilst  his  neighbour  with  only  Ramasamy's  fine  whether 
make-shift  to  fall  back  upon,  will  beg  for  bread. 

I  have  baked  at  home  regularly  now  for  over  two  years 
using,    for   ordinary   bread,    Yeatman's    baking    powder, 

*  There  are,  I  dare  say,  cooking  stoves,  fed  by  minex^al  oils, 
patented  by  other  firms,  which  are  similar  to  the  Acme  in  working 
and  quite  as  good.  I  have  confined  my  remarks  to  the  one  which 
I  have  thoroughly  tested. 

31 


318  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

American  flour,  salt,  and  water ;  for  fancy  rolls,  tlie  same 
with  butter,  and  milk ;  and  have  discovered^  after  many 
experiments,  that  in  this  country,  the  proportions  of 
baking  powder  to  flour  which  are  laid  down  in  the  paper 
of  directions  accompanying  each  tin,  have  to  be  increased. 
For  eight  ounces  of  flour,  for  instance,  I  find  that  I  have 
to  use  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  Yeatmau. 

I  may  say  without  hesitation  that  very  few  bread- 
makers  hit  off  perfection  at  starting.  I  struggled  through 
many  disheartening  attempts,  before  I  turned  out  the  thing 
I  wanted.  The  common  mistakes  are  overworking  the 
dough,  and  using  too  much  liquid.  The  mixing  of  dough 
^ith  the  proper  quantity  of  fluid  can  only  be  acquired  by 
practice,  and  all  beginners  knead  too  heavily  through  over 
zeal.  Watch  a  professor.  The  fair-haired  artiste  who 
demonstrates  bread-making  at  Mr.  Woolf 's,  makes  a  pound 
loaf  with  three-quarters  of  a  tea-cupful  of  water;  her 
touch  is  as  light  as  a  feather,  and  the  dough  is  made  with 
wonderful  swiftness.  I  have  taught  my  servant  to  use 
two  wooden  spoons  to  work  his  dough  with,  the  result  is 
satisfactory  as  regards  the  lightness  of  the  bread,  and  to 
those  who  dislike  eating  food  mauled  by  native  fingers, 
the  system  is  especially  attractive.  If  by  any  chance 
your  dough  has  been  made  too  sloppily,  and  from  its 
putty-like  consistency,  you  feel  convinced  it  will  be  heavy, 
bake  it  in  a  tin. 

The  pai^phernalia  of  the  home-baker  should  be : — a 
large  enamelled  iron  milk  basin,  two  wooden  spoons,  a  flour 
dredger,  scales  to  weigh  the  flour,  some  patty-pans  for 
rolls,  some  small  tins  for  ditto,  a  baking-sheet,  a  half 
pound  and  pound  loaf  tin,  and  a  cake  tin  :  these  various 
things  are  not  expensive,  they  should  be  kept  in  the  house 
(when  in  cantonment)  away  from  the  cook-room,  as  clean 
as  possible,  and  be  scrupulously  reserved  for  their  own 
purposes.     Having  provided  yourself  with  this  equipment, 


CAMP  COOKERY.  319 


yon  should  use  Yeatman's  baking  powder,  the  best  import- 
ed flour  you  can  get,  oatmeal  occasionally,  salt,  and  either 
good  butter  made  at  home,  or  that  of  any  well-known 
brand  preserved  in  tin.  Here  is  a  reliable  receipt  for  four 
nice  breakfast  or  dinner  rolls  : — 

eight  ounces  of  flour, 

one  dessert-spoonful  of  good  butter, 

two  tea-spoonfuls  of  Yeatman^s  powder, 

one  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 

four  table-spoonfuls  of  milk. 
Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  with  one  of  the  wooden 
spoons  after  having  spread  the  latter  in  the  enamelled 
pan,  sprinkle  the  salt  over  it,  and  mix  your  dough  as 
lightly  as  you  can,  using  both  wooden  spoons,  and  shaking 
the  milk  into  the  flour  by  degrees.  When  nicely  formed, 
add  the  baking  powder  (last  thing  of  all  mark)  stir  it 
well  into  the  dough,  divide  it  into  four  equal  portions,  pat 
them  into  shape  with  the  spoons,  and  place  them  in  four 
patty-pans  well  buttered  :  These  must  be  put  on  the 
baking-sheet,  and  slipped  into  the  oven,  which  should  have 
been  heated  to  receive  them  to  such  a  degree  that  you  can 
hardly  bear  your  hand  inside  it.  The  time  taken  in  bak- 
ing depends  upon  the  sort  of  oven  you  employ  :  as  soon 
as  the  rolls  brown  very  slightly,  having  risen  into  nice 
round  forms,  they  are  ready.  This  recipe  may  be  altered 
to  jive  ounces  of  flour,  and  three  of  oatmeal,  for  a  change, 
"  French  Bolls'^ : — Half  a  pound  of  flour,  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  butter,  one  small  egg^  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  Yeat- 
man's powder,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  four  table-spoon- 
fuls of  milk.  Work  the  butter  thoroughly  into  the  flour. 
Beat  the  egg  up  briskly  with  the  milk,  and  strain  it  into 
another  cup,  dust  the  salt  over  the  flour,  and  gradually 
add  the  eggy-milk  till  the  dough  is  formed ;  then  mix  the 
baking  powder  into  it  thoroughly  ;  form  the  dough  into 
two  nice  oblong  rolls,  place  them  on  a  sheet  of  well  buttered 


320  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

paper,  on  the  baking  tin,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  ;  look 
at  them  after  twenty  minutes'  baking,  and  take  them  out 
as  soon  as  their  colour  indicates  that  they  are  done. 

"  Half  pound  plain  loaf  : — Half  a  pound  of  flour,  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  Yeatman's  powder,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  four  or  five  table-spoonfuls  of  water.  Work  this  as 
above,  reserving  the  baking  powder  to  the  last,  set  the 
dough  in  a  tin,  or  form  it  in  the  well-known  "  cottage" 
shape,  and  bake. 

The  ordinary  cookery  book  receipts  for  fancy  breads  can 
be  safely  followed  if  you  remember  the  proportion  of  the 
baking  powder  to  the  pound  of  flour,  and,  where  eggs  are 
propounded,  make  an  allowance  for  the  difference  which 
exists  between  the  English  and  the  Indian  egg.  In  using 
Yeatman's  powder,  do  not  let  your  made  rolls,  or  bread, 
.stand  waiting  for  the  oven  :  see  that  your  baking  appara- 
tus is  all  but  ready  before  you  commence  making  the  bread. 
You  will  observe  that  I  recommend  the  baking  powder  to 
be  put  into  the  dough,  not  mixed  with  the  flour  in  a  dry 
tstate  to  start  with.  In  London  ^Ir.  AVoolf  follows  the 
latter  method.  I  cannot  explain  what  causes  it,  but  I 
have  found  that  the  bread  never  turns  out  so  satisfactorily 
here,  if  the  powder  be  put  in  early  :  the  temperature  may 
have  something  to  do  with  this ;  at  all  events,  experience 
seems  to  show  that  the  powder  expends  its  effect  to  a 
great  extent,  during  the  working  of  the  dough,  if  mixed 
with  the  flour  first ;  whereas,  if  put  in  as  a  finishing 
touch,  the  bread  being  rapidly  consigned  to  the  oven,  the 
result  is  invariably  satisfactory. 

I  advise  home-bakers  to  make  rolls  rather  than  large 
loaves.  There  is  less  waste  with  them.  A  roll  is  either 
eaten  in  toto  or  left  untouched.  If  intact,  you  have  merely 
to  dip  it  in  milk,  and  put  it  into  the  oven — damp ;  it  will 
turn  out  again   almost  as  freshly   as  a  new  roll.     Bread, 


CAMP   COOKERY.  321 


once  cnt,  is  apt  to  get  dry,  and  with,  the  exception  of  being 
sliced  for  toast,  or  grated  for  bread-crumbs,  is  not  very 
presentable  a  second  time.  In  baking,  be  very  careful 
that  your  flour  is  well  sifted  and  thoroughly  dry.  In  a 
moist  climate  like  this  it  is  advisable  to  dry  it  in  the  oven 
before  using  it ;  the  sifting  must  be  carried  out  by  a  sieve. 
I  have  made  very  eatable  bread  with  carefully  sifted 
country  flour,  the  sifting  of  which  is  an  imperative  neces- 
sity, be  it  observed,  unless  you  have  no  objection  to  a 
gravelly  loaf. 

!N'ow,  let  us  discuss  the  animal  and  vegetable  food  of 
camp  life,  taking  soups  first : — 

Many  people  think  that  because  they  cannot  get  beef 
in  camp,  they  cannot  have  a  freshly-made  soup.  Now, 
there  are  a  few  capital  soups  requiring  no  meat  at  all, 
which  are  known  as  ''^  soupe.s  maigres."  I  will  give  you 
two  : — 

"  Soupe  a  Voignon^^ : — Slice  a  couple  of  Bombay  onions  ; 
powder  them  well  with  floiu%  let  them  fry  awhile  in  a 
stew-pan  with  plenty  of  butter  ;  before  they  begin  to 
brown  at  all,  add  water,  pepper,  and  salt,  let  the  whole 
boil  till  the  onions  are  well  done  and  serve  with  croutons 
of  fried  bread.      Grated  Parmesan  should  accompany. 

"  Soupe  aux  choux'  : — Let  us  assume  that  you  have  taken 
a  cabbage  or  two  with  you  when  you  left  cantonment. 
Cut  the  cabbage  into  quarters,  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  a  good  sized  slice  of  bacon,  some  slices  of  a  Bologna 
sausage,  and  a  bag  containing  sweet  herbs,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  pepper,  and  a  little  spice  ;  add  water  enough  to 
cover  the  whole,  and  let  the  soup  simmer  till  the  cabbage 
is  done,  serve  with  croutons  of  fried  bread.  A  bacon  bone 
would  assist  the  undertaking  greatly. 

But  you  need  not  condemn  yourself  to  "  soiopes  an 
■niaigre'   whenever   there  are  sheep,  and  fowls,  to  be  had, 


322  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

when  you  can  shoot  game,  and  lastly,  when  you  are  pro- 
vided with  tinned  soups,  and  preserved  vegetables,  espe- 
cially that  excellent  tablet  called  "  Julienne.''  In  camp, 
bottles  of  dried  herbs,  and  tinned  provisions  are,  of  coui'se, 
indispensable,  and  you  should  be  provided  with  potatoes, 
carrots,  and  onions  before  starting. 

Soups  in  tins  can  be  turned  to  excellent  account  in  this 
way  : — Kill  a  good  full-sized  fowl,  cut  it  up,  and  put  it, 
giblets  and  all,  into  a  stew-pan  ;  cover  it  with  water,  and 
let  it  come  very  slowly  to  the  boil,  skimming  off  the  scum 
which  may  rise  during  that  process  ;  when  the  boiling 
stage  has  been  attained,  take  the  pan  from  the  fire  for  a 
minute  and  throw  into  it  a  Bombay  onion,  cut  into 
quarters,  any  fresh  vegetables  you  may  have  brought  out, 
a  bag  of  mixed  sweet  herbs,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  dozen  pep- 
per corns,  a  pinch  of  parsley  seed,  a  few  drops  of  celery 
essence,  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salt.  Now,  let 
the  pan  boil  again  till  the  onion  is  soft,  and  then  reduce 
the  fire  for  the  simmering  stage.  When  the  pieces  of  fowl 
are  nice  and  tender,  the  broth  is  ready  :  long  cooking  will 
avail  nothing  :  so  lift  up  your  pan,  and  strain  off  the  broth 
into  a  bowl,  it  will  be  beautifully  bright  and  clear ; 
slightly  tinted  with  caramel  (page  35)  and  served  hot 
with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Marsala  and  a  dissolved  dessert- 
spoonful of  "  Julienne^''  this  consomme  de  volaille  will  be 
found  sufficient  for  two  hungry  men.  When  used  in  con- 
nection with  a  tin  of  soup,  the  broth  should  be  poured 
from  the  bowl  into  the  pan  again,  and  the  tin  of  soup 
added  to  it  ;*  a  slow  process  of  boiling  should  now  be 
commenced,  during  which  any  scum,  the  soup  may  throw 
up  should  be  studiously  removed,  for  all  tinny  impurities 
will  thus  be  got  rid  of  :  when  all   but  boiling,  a  table- 

*  If  a  thick  soup,  like  mockturfcle  for  instance,  you  must  thicken 
the  consommd  with  a  little  flour. — W. 


CAMP  COOKERY,  323 


spoonful  of  Marsala  should  be  added,  and  the  soup  served. 
The  pieces  of  fowl  if  not  over-cooked,  may  be  served  in 
the  form  of  fricassee,  or  be  bread-crumbed  or  dipped  in 
batter  and  fried,  and  served  with  maccaroni  and  tomato 
conserve. 

Very  valuable  stock,  remember,  can  be  made  from  cold 
roast  mutton  bones — (do  not  try  raiu  mutton,  the  taste 
will  be  tallowy) — assisted  by  bacon  skin,  bones  and  trim- 
mings, a  thick  slice  of  Brunswick  or  Bologna  sausage,  and 
a  chicken,  or  any  game  you  can  spare.  Birds  that  have 
been  mauled  in  shooting  can  thus  be  utilized.  Purees  of 
game  can  be  made  if  you  have  taken  out  your  utensils  if 
not,  you  must  make  the  game  broth  as  strong  as  possible, 
helped  by  a  fowl  as  stock,  and  thicken  it  with  flour.  The 
addition  of  Marsala  or  port  is,  of  course,  a  sine  qua  non. 

Tinned  fish  served, — as  you  sometimes  see  salmon  at  a 
dinner  party, — plainly,  and  hot  is  positively  nasty,  and  in 
no  way  improved  by  a  cold  sauce  like  tartare.  Who,  after 
a  moment's  reflection,  could  send  up  hot  fish  with  a  cold 
sauce  ?  Preserved  salmon,  fresh  herrings,  and  other 
tinned  fresh  fish,  if  served  with  tartare  or  mayonnaise 
sauces  should  be  served  cold^  after  having  been  carefully 
drained  on  a  sieve  from  all  the  tinny  juices  which  adhered 
to  them.  Select  nicely  sized  pieces,  place  them  on  a  dish 
with  any  garnish  you  may  have  such  as  olives  farcies y 
capers,  sliced  gherkins,  and  rolled  anchovies,  and  send  the 
sauce  round  in  a  boat. 

If  you  want  a  hot  dish  of  tinned  fish,  you  must  choose 
the  nicest  pieces  and  gently  warm  them  up  in  a  rich 
matelote  sauce,  veloiite  or  poulette,  or  you  must  wrap  them 
in  oiled  paper  and  broil  them  a  moment.  All  trimmings 
and  odd  bits  can  be  saved  and  worked  up  as  rissoles,  or  in 
any  of  the  ways  I  have  mentioned  for  cold  fish  in  my 
ch9,pter  on  rechauffes. 


324  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Fresli-water  fish  is  often  to  be  had  by  men  out  in  camp. 
In  cooking  them,  many  recipes  hereafter  given  for  filleted 
fish  may  be  followed  :  clean  them  thoroughly,  wash  them 
well  to  get  rid  of  all  muddy  taste,  scale,  trim,  and  soak 
them  after  cleaning,  in  water.  A  fish  like  murrel  may  be 
treated  like  a  pike  : — after  having  been  carefully  cleansed, 
and  trimmed,  stuff  it  with  turkey  forcemeat  (page  108) 
sew  it  up,  trim  it  in  a  circular  shape  with  its  tail  in  its 
mouth  and  bake  it  in  a  pie-dish  surrounded  by  chicken 
stock  about  half  an  inch  deep.  A  glass  of  any  white  wine 
like  hock,  chablis,  or  sauterne  may  be  put  into  the  stock, 
an  onion  also,  and  any  vegetables  you  can  spare.  The 
fish  should  be  basted  every  now  and  then,  and  when  it 
has  absorbed  the  gravy  and  seems  soft,  take  it  out  of 
the  oven.  Put  a  pat  of  maitre  d'lwtel  butter  on  the  top 
of  it,  and  serve  in  its  own  dish  with  a  napkin  folded 
round  it.  A  good  sized  murrel  will  take  from  twenty 
minutes  to  half  an  hour  in  baking.  A  stuffing  made  with 
a  tin  of  oysters,  well  drained  and  cut  up,  mixed  with  a 
half  pint  of  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk  or  stock,  some 
spiced  pepper,  a  little  chopped  very  finely  pared  lime  peel, 
and  a  couple  of  minced  anchov^ies,  all  stirred  together,  and 
bound  with  a  couple  of  eggs,  is  highly  acceptable  with  a 
murrel.  If  you  have  no  oysters,  pound  a  good  quantity 
of  fresh-water  shrimps,  and  mix  them  with  the  stuffing. 

Eels  ought  to  be  slightly  boiled  first,  whatever  you  do 
with  them,  you  then  get  rid  of  their  oiliness.  After  being 
thus  treated,  you  can  cut  them  into  fillets  for  frying,  for 
stewing,  or  for  a  pie.  Eel  fillets  dipped  in  batter,  and 
fried  in  oil  or  fat  (lots  of  it)  with  a  plain  sharp  sauce  are 
delicious.     The  matelote  will  be  found  in  the  menus. 

Tinned  Australian,  and  other  preserved  lumps  of  meat, 
are  valuable  additions  to  the  store  box  of  the  jungle- 
wallah,  but  they  require  very  delicate  handling,  because 
they  are  almost  always  overdone.     The  really  nutritious 


CAMP  COOKERY.  S2l 


part  of  a  tin  of  Australian  meat  is  the  gravy  that  sui'- 
rounds  it.  Uamasamy  knows  this,  so  beware  of  un- 
righteous dealing,  see  the  tin  opened,  and  have  every  atom 
of  the  gravy  strained  off  into  a  bowl.  In  cold  weather, 
during  such  nights  as  you  have  in  the  Deccan  during 
December  and  January  for  instance,  the  gravy  in  these 
tins  becomes  a  jelly,  so  before  you  open  one,  set  it  on  the 
fire  in  a  sauce-pan  surrounded  by  hot  water  for  ten  minutes 
or  so  ;  then  open  it,  and  strain  the  gravy  from  the  tin  into 
a  bowl ;  turn  the  meat  out  carefully  upon  your  sieve,  and 
pour  some  hot  water  gently  over  it ;  catch  the  water  in  a 
bowl  below  the  sieve,  and  add  it  to  the  gravy.  Now,  the 
gravy  of  a  two -pound  tin  of  beef  will,  as  a  rule,  give  you 
an  excellent  stock  for  two  basins  of  soap  : — skim  the  fat 
that  may  rise  to  its  surface,  and  put  it  into  a  sauce- pan 
with  a  bag  of  dried  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  cut  into  quarters, 
any  vegetables  you  can  spare,  some  pepper-corns,  a  pinch 
of  spice,  and  salt  according  to  the  quantity  :  simmer  this 
gently  to  extract  the  flavour  of  the  things  you  have  added, 
and  in  about  a  couple  of  hours  you  will  have  an  excellent 
consomme,  quite  fit  to  be  served  as  soup,  with  maccaroni, 
vermicelli,  a  couple  of  poached  eggs,  or  Julienne,  grated 
cheese  accompanying ;  a  table-spoonful  of  Marsala  will  be 
a  grateful  finishing  stroke.  Or  it  may  be  thickened  like 
mock-turtle,  and  served  with  forcemeat  balls. 

I .  The  meat  should  be  treated  in  this  way  : — choose  the 
nicest  looking  pieces,  trim  them  neatly,  and  if  of  a  fair 
size,  brush  them  over  with  egg,  bread-crumb  them,  and 
brown  them  in  the  oven,  serving  a  good  sauce, — tomato, 
souhise,  or  piquante  for  instance,  with  them.  Or  you  can 
cut  the  meat  into  collops,  and  hash  them  very  gently  in 
a  carefully  made  gravy.  Lastly,  you  can  mince  it  and 
serve  it  in  many  nice  ways,  (vide  page  173). 

An  excellent   method  may  be  thus  described  : — Having 

32 


326  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

made  your  mince  and  flavoured  it  Tvitli  a  little  chopped 
olive,  anchovy,  sausage  meat,  &c.,  bind  it  with  a  little 
good  sauce  thickened  with  a  couple  of  eggs,  and  let  it  get 
cold  :  make  a  good  sized  thin  pan-cake,  take  it  from  the 
pan  when  almost  done,  put  -it  on  a  dish,  and  arrange  some 
slices  of  cold  cooked  bacon  upon  it,  lay  the  mince  upon 
the  bacon,  give  it  a  dust  of  spiced  pepper,  and  fold  the 
pan-cake  over  it :  brush  it  over  with  an  egg,  bread-crumb 
it,  and  bake  it  a  golden  brown  in  your  oven.  The  pan- 
cake should  be  just  large  enough  to  envelope  the  mince  in 
one  fold  securely. 

If  you  look  upon  a  tin  of  preserved  meat  as  a  dish 
that  has  been  cooked  once,  and  has  accordingly  to  be 
dressed  en  rechauffe,  you  will  not  fail  to  turn  it  to  good 
account.  But  warmed  up  as  it  comes  from  the  tin, 
unaided,  and  carelessly  dished,  it  presents  an  irregular 
mass  of  sodden  and  tasteless  diet  which  few  would  care 
to  touch  unless  driven  to  do  so  by  the  calls  of  ungovern- 
able hunger. 

Messes  like  Messrs.  Crosse  and  Blackwell's  "  ducks  and 
green  peas,"  "  Irish  stew,"  "  ox  cheek  and  vegetables," 
&c.,  should  be  avoided  carefully,  but  if  you  find  that  your 
butler  has  sent  such  things  to  camp,  you  must  pick  the 
meat  out  of  its  surroundings,  dress  it  with  some  fresh 
chicken  meat,  as  a  rissole,  croustade  or  a  mince,  and  cook 
the  gravy  and  vegetables  with  some  fresh  chicken  broth 
as  a  sauce. 

I  have  already  spoken  of  tinned  vegetables,  (pages  163 
to  165)  and  also  of  the  produce  of  the  country.  The 
traveller  ought  to  try  and  find  out  what  country  garden 
stuff  can  be  got  from  the  villages  near  his  camp.  The 
recipes  I  have  given  will  be  found  easy,  and  the  monotony 
of  tinned  food  will  be  much  relieved  by  an  occasional 
nicely  dressed  dish  of  common  vegetables. 


CAMP  COOKERY.  327 


I  will  conclude  this  chapter  with  three  very  reliable 
recipes  for  cooking  a  hare.  If  you  have  shot  the  hare 
yourself  so  much  the  better,  for  then  you  will  not  find  its 
heart,  liver  and  kidneys  gone.  Skin,  clean,  and  wash  the 
animal  well,  saving  the  three  parts  I  have  mentioned  care- 
fully, and  the  hlood.  When  quite  clean,  wipe  the  carcass 
inside  and  out,  and  let  it  soak  in  the  marinade  mentioned 
at  page  65  all  day,  turning  it  every  now  and  then.  As 
the  hour  for  cooking  approaches,  fill  the  hare  with  a  well- 
made  stuffing  as  for  turkey  (page  108).  The  kidneys  and 
heart  should  be  minced,  and  fried  in  fat  bacon,  with  a 
little  onion  ;  when  done,  the  contents  of  the  pan  should  be 
poured  into  a  bowl  to  cool,  and  when  cold,  pounded  to  a 
paste,  and  mixed  with  the  stuffing.  The  back  of  the  hare 
should  be  larded,  or  covered  with  thin  slices  of  bacon 
pinned  down  with  little  skewers,  it  should  then  be  roasted, 
a  constant  basting  of  melted  butter  or  clarified  beef  suet 
being  kept  up  throughout  the  process.  When  nearly  done, 
the  bacon  strips  should  be  removed,  and  the  back  lightly 
dredged  with  flour  ;  the  skin  should  be  allowed  to  brown, 
and  run  into  crisp  blisters  :  the  hare  should  then  be 
served, — with  a  sauce  made  as  follows  : — 

First  make  a  good  pint  of  the  best  gravy  you  can  :  cut 
the  liver  into  dice,  take  a  small  sauce-pan,  melt  an  ounce 
of  butter  in  it,  throw  into  it  an  onion  finely  shredded,  toss 
the  onion  till  it  colours  nicely,  then  throw  in  the  chopped 
liver,  shaking  the  pan  for  a  minute  or  two  :  next  add  a 
little  gravy,  stir  well,  pour  in  all  the  gravy  and  simmer 
till  the  liver  is  cooked.  Now,  strain  the  gravy,  pour  into 
it  the  marinade  of  port  wine,  vinegar,  ketchup,  and  red 
currant  jelly  in  which  the  hare  was  soaked,  put  it  on  the 
fire  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  pour  in  very  slowly  as  it  warms 
the  hlood  you  saved  in  the  first  instance  ;  continue  stirring, 
and  the  sauce  will  thicken,  throw  into  it  the  liver  pounded 
to  a  paste,  stir  and  serve  very  hot. 


328  CULINARY  JOTTINGS  FOR  MADRAS. 

Ramasamy  sometimes  envelopes  his  hare  in  a  coating 
of  light  batter.      Pray  caution  him  never  to  do  so  again. 

"  Jugged  hare"  is  perhaps  the  best  dish  for  camp  life  ; 
by  many  it  is  considered  in  any  circumstances  the  best. 
This  is  a  simple  recipe  : — Proceed  as  in  the  foregoing 
receipt  as  far  as  the  skinning  and  cleaning  is  concerned. 
When  ready,  cut  the  hare  up  into  neat  pieces,  dredge  them 
with  flour,  and  give  them  a  few  turns  in  the  frying-pan  with 
some  butter  till  they  take  coloui*.  Prepare  beforehand  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  good  strong  stock  (that  of  a  fowl  will  do 
in  camp)  and  choose  a  vessel  that  you  can  close  securely 
with  paste  :  put  the  pieces  of  hare  into  it,  with  two 
carrots,  two  or  three  large  onions,  an  ounce  of  celery,  the 
juice  of  two  limes,  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  one  of 
salt ;  pour  in  the  stock,  throw  in  a  wine-glass  of  brandy, 
and  seal  the  vessel  as  closely  as  possible  ;  place  it  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water,  and  set  it  to  boil,  steaming  the  covered  pot 
for  three  houi-s.  When  done,  open  the  pot,  stir  into  it  a 
bumper  glass  of  port,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  red  currant 
jelly,  and  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.*  Serve  with  a 
dozen  balls  of  stuffing  made  as  for  roast  hare,  and  fried 
in  butter.  Instead  of  steaming  the  jar,  it  may  be  placed 
in  the  oven  and  baked  for  two  or  three  hours. 

An  excellent  hash  may  be  made  of  a  cold  roast  hare  in 
this  way  : — Trim  off  as  much  of  the  meat  as  you  can  find 
in  slices,  and  cut  out  what  remains  of  the  stuffing :  break 
up  all  the  bones  and  put  them  with  the  skin  and  scraps 
into  a  stew-pan  with  a  large  onion  cut  up,  pepper-corns, 
a  bit  of  celery  if  possible,  and  any  vegetable,  a  little  spice, 
any  sauce  that  may  have  been  left,  a  couple  of  glasses  of 
red  wine  and  enough  water  to  cover  the  bones,  &c.,  sim- 
mer these  ingredients  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  then 

*  Or  you  may  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter, 
add  tlie  wine,  &c.,  and  pour  it  over  the  meat  again. — W. 


CAMP  COOKERY.  329 

strain  off  the  gravy.  Thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour, 
flavour  it  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  a 
table- spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  half  a  glass  of  vine- 
gar, and  a  little  more  red  wine  :  heat  up  the  slices  of  hare 
in  this  sauce  taking  care  that  they  do  not  boil,  and  serve 
with  the  stuffing  sliced  and  fried  in  butter  as  a  garnish. 

I  have  found  the  process  of  "  jugging"  very  effective 
with  venison,  especially  with  jungle-sheep.  The  neck  and 
breast  can  be  utilized  in  this  manner. 

Many  of  the  dishes  detailed  in  the  previous  chapters, 
especially  those  spoken  of  under  the  title  of  "  Eggs,  mac- 
caroni,  and  cheese,"  will  be  found  practicable  in  the  camp  ; 
amongst  the  menus,  more  than  one  nice  recipe  for  cooking 
mutton,  fowls,  and  chickens,  has  been  recorded  ;  in  short, 
if  the  pilgrim  be  blessed  by  the  possession  of  an  intelligent 
cook,  and  provided  with  a  judicious  assortment  of  culinary 
necessaries  and  stores,  his  tent  life  should  never  fail  to 
possess  amongst  its  many  attractions  that  indubitably 
important  one — a  really  good  dinner. 

Note. — For  various  methods  of  treating  preserved  food 
of  all  kinds,  see  Wyvern's  annotated  catalogue  of  Messrs. 
John  Moir  and  Son's  provisions. 


PART    II. 
THIRTY  MENUS, 


I 


I 


NOTES, 


tHE  tnenus    have  been  th.orouglily  revised  and  cor- 
rected.    They  are  all   susceptible  of  being  doubled 
for  larger  parties  than  those  for  which  thej  have 
been   designed ;  and   though    each  of   them  is    given  in 
French,  the  English  names  of  all  the  dishes  will  be  found 
in  the  margin  of  the  detail  of  instructions. 

Those  who  are  anxious  to  adopt  the  more  modern  form 
of  menu  will  find  a  note  at  the  end  of  each  of  the  larger 
bills-of-fare  showing  what  alteration  is  necessary  to  effect 
their  object. 

I  have  not  attempted  to  treat  of  sweet  dishes  in  this 
work,  but  the  entremets  sucres  chosen  for  each  bill-of-fare 
have  been  carefully  described. 

For  hors  d'oeuvres,  please  consult  the  chapter  I  have 
devoted  to  them. 

The  recipes  given  for  the  treatment  of  fish  apply,  it 
will  be  found,  to  the  varieties  of  the  finny  tribe  best 
known  and  esteemed  at  Madras,  viz.  : — the  seer,  pomfret, 
sole,  grey  mullet,  and  whiting. 

Of  these  the  first  being  a  large  salmon-shaped  fish, 
which  is  cut  up  and  sold  much  in  the  same  manner  as 
salmon,  is  susceptible  of  being  similarly  cooked.  Small 
seer  are  flabby  and  unfit  for  the  table. 

The  pomfret  may,  as  far  as  its  flavour  and  the  texture 
of  its  flesh  are  concerned,  be  best  compared  perhaps  with 

33 


3^4  NOTES  TO  MENU. 

the  turbot  or  brill,  but  as  it  never  reaches  as  great  a  size 
as  either  of  those  fish,  it  can  be  trimmed  when  desired  in 
fillets,  and  cooked  like  soles. 

The  sole  and  whiting  can  be  treated  exactly  like  the  fishes 
of  the  same  name  at  home.  The  only  difference  being  that 
the  Indian  sole  is,  as  a  rnle,  wanting  in  the  depth  of  flesh 
possessed  by  the  European  variety  when  in  proper  season. 

The  mullet  is  a  far  larger  fish  than  the  English  grey 
mullet,  and  not  nearly  as  rich.  If  taken  in  back-waters, 
it  requires  very  careful  cleaning  to  rid  it  of  the  muddy 
taste  it  acquires  in  such  circumstances. 

Rcmembenng  the  peculiainties  of  these  fish,  a  little  re- 
flection will  .enable  my  readers  in  other  parts  of  India  to 
apply  the  recipes  I  have  given  to  almost  any  fish  that 
may  be  at  their  disposal. 

A  fish  that  can  be  easily  dressed  in  fillets  may  be  treated 
as  a  porafret  or  sole.  One  that  is  large  and  firm  enough 
to  be  sliced  can  be  cooked  as  the  seer.  Long  trout-shaped 
fish  may  be  served  as  mullet,  and  can  be  baked  whole,  or 
roasted  a  la  hroche.  Bony  fish  are  best  pi'epared  in  the 
form  of  puree : — boiled,  passed  through  the  sieve,  and  sent 
up  as  a  so^ijljie,  or  a  creme.  Tlie  becktie  of  Calcutta  seems 
specially  adapted  to  treatment  as  codfish  ;  at  the  same  time 
it  may  be  cooked  in  almost  every  way  laid  down  for  seer 
fish.  The  hilsa,  again,  approaches  vei-y  closely  if  it  does 
not  surpass  the  mackerel,  and  may  be  dressed  similarly. 

Those  who  may  try  to  Use  this  book  in  England  should 
remember  that  ordinary  eggs  in  India  are  far  smaller 
than-  those  at  home.  I  calculate  that  five  Indian  eggs 
equal  three  English.  Again :  the  cream  so  often  pro- 
pounded in  my  recipes  is  not  nearly  as  thick  and  rich  as 
English  cream  :  the  use  therefore  of  cream  may  be  tera- 
Jiered  with  discretion. 

^VYV£R^^ 


ivEEiisrxj    nsro.    i. 


For  a  party  of  eight 

Consomme  aux  quenelles. 

Seer  aux  concombres. 

Creme  de  volaille  truffee. 

Orenadins  de  bceuf  a  la  Beamaise. 

Selle  de  mouton  aux  haricots  verts, 

Galantines  de  eailles,  sauce  tartare. 

Epinards  a  la  creme. 

Pain  d^  f raises. 

"  Pudding"  glace  aux  abricots. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Our  first  step  must  be  the  making  of  a  bright,  clear, 
consomme  according  to  the  directions 

u?nelleB    ^^""^  ^'^^      ^^^^^  ^^  P^^®  ^^'  *°  ^^^our  which  in 
this    instance  we  must    not  forget  a 
little  dried  basil,  (which  should  go  in  with  the  vegetables) 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  Madeira  to  finish  with. 

We  can  make  the  quenelles  of  fish,  game,  chicken,  or  of 
tinned  lobster  if  we  like.  Let  us  choose  prawn  quenelles, 
and  proceed  as  follows  : — Pound  a  dozen  and  a  half  well- 
cleaned  prawns  with  half  their  bulk  of  crumb  of  bread, 
soaked  in  stock  ;  work  in  with  the  paste  two  whole  raw 
eggs,  and  season  it  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  dusting  of 
white,  or  Nepaul  pepper,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  anchovy 


336  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

sance  :  when  thoroughly  blended,  and  of  the  right  consist- 
ency, form  your  tiny  olive-shaped  quenelles  between  two 
tea-spoons,  poach  them  for  about  fire  minutes  in  boiling 
stock  or  water,  drain  them,  and  add  them  to  the  soup  at  the 
last  moment.  Quenelles  used  as  garnish  for  soups  should 
be  lighter  and  more  delicate  than  ordinary  quenelles. 
Various  shapes  may  be  obtained  by  pressing  the  mixture 
into  the  poaching  pan  through  a  paper  funnel. 

2. — This  is   a  dish   of  neatly  trimmed   slices  of  seer, 

plainly  stewed  in  a  clear  broth  made 

Seer   uith    cucum-      £j,q^  chicken  bones  and  the  fish  trim- 

bers  .  -r»        • 

mmgs.      Put  into   the  broth  with  tho 

fish  a  few  slices  of  can-ot,  and  onion,  a  table-spoonful  of 

dried  sweet  herbs,  and  a  glass  of  chablis  :  simmer  gently, 

and   when   done,   drain   the   fish,    and   strain   the   gravy. 

Thicken  the  latter  with  butter  and  flour,  and  add  to  it 

some  previously  cooked  fillets  of  cucumber  about  an  inch 

long,  and  half  an  inch  thick,  and  the  pieces  of  fish  :  heat 

altogether,  till  the   stew  steams  freely,   and  serve. 

For  directions  for  preparing  the  cucumber,  see  page  156. 

3. — Here  we  have  a  mould  of  creme  or  pain  de  volailley 
nicely  truffled.  Choose  a  large  fowl, 
'^l^^^  of  chicken  or  two  good  sized  chickens,  and  cut  off 
all  the  white  meat  you  can  for  the 
puree.  With  all  the  bones,  skin,  and  scraps  assisted  by 
two  sheep's  feet,  cleaned  and  cut  up,  and  the  giblets  saved 
before  the  roasting,  make  as  strong  an  essence  as  you  can, 
following  the  rules  for  "  fowl  essence"  (page  98).  Strain 
when  done,  let  it  get  cold,  skim  it,  and  then  proceed  to 
thicken  it ;  when  as  thick  as  a  rich  mayonnaise  sauce, 
strain  it,  and  set  it  in  the  hain-marie. 

You  must  treat  your  puree  thus  : — melt  two  ounces  of 
fat  bacon  in  a  5aw^e-pan,  throw  in  some  pepper,  salt,  and 
the  meat  of  the  fowl  ;  work  them  together  for  five  minutes 
over  a  bright  fire,  then  empty  the  contents  of  the  pan  into 


cream. 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  337 

a  mortar,  and  pound  the  meat  and  bacon  to  a  paste ;  add 
half  their  bulk  of  crumb  of  bread  soaked  in  stock,  and 
half  a  tin  of  white  mushi'ooms,  and  when  thoroughly  incor- 
porated, pass  the  whole  through  a  hair  sieve.  Moisten 
the  'puree  with  some  of  the  sauce  already  described,  while 
pounding  it,  and  when  finished,  add  four  whole  raw  eggs. 
Now,  butter  a  plain  mould,  and  fill  it  with  your  puree, 
introducing  a  good  allowance  of  truffles  cut  into  dice,  and 
steam  it  as  you  would  a  pudding  in  youi'  Warren's  pot, 
or  in  a  stew-pan  plunged  into  a  larger  vessel  full  of 
water.  When  done,  let  the  mould  get  cold,  and  then  turn 
it  out. 

While  the  mould  was  being  steamed,  reduce  the  re- 
mainder of  the  sauce  to  a  white  glaze,  let  it  get  cool,  and 
pour  it  gently  over  the  mould  (which  should  be  set  on  ice) 
until  the  glaze  coats  it  completely.  When  set,  the  pain 
is  ready. 

If  steamed  in  sl  border  mould,  the  centre  may  be  filled 
with  pointes  cVasperges,  fonds  d^artichmits,  flageolets  or 
macedoine  de  legumes  moistened  with  pure  iced  cream. 

4. — Choose  a  nice  fillet  of  beef,  or  the  tender  meat  of  a 
piece  of  the  ribs.  Trim  this  into  thick 
uaS'lSllu"'^'"-  lieai-t-shaped  fillets  of  a  size  large 
enough  for  one  person  each ;  lard 
them  with  fat  bacon,  and  set  them  to  marinade  all  day, 
as  described  in  Chapter  VIII,  page  65.  When  ready,  drain 
them,  and  stew  them  gently  in  as  rich  a  stock  as  you  can 
make  from  the  meat  and  bones  you  had  over  after  shap- 
ing them,  assisted  by  a  glass  of  Marsala:  when  done, 
keep  them  hot  in  the  bain-marie.  • 

For  the  sauce,  proceed  as  follows  : — put  into  a  stew-pan 
the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  pinch  of 
salt,  and  a  little  pepper :  stir  over  a  low  fire  till  the  yolks 
begin  to  thicken :  take  the  pan  off  the  fire  and  stir  in  one 


338  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

ounce  of  butter  more  :  again  stii*  over  the  fire  for  two 
minutes  and  again  remove  the  pan,  adding  another  ounce 
of  butter.  Repeat  the  process  again  twice,  using  in  all 
five  ounces  of  butter,  stir  till  the  sauce  is  rich  and  creamy 
looking,  finally  adding  a  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  vine- 
gar, and  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  A  little 
water  atlded  with  the  butter  prevents  curdling. 

Dish  the  grenadins  round  a  ring  of  carefully  mashed 
potato,  introducing  a  slice  of  crisply  fried  bacon  between 
each  of  them,  and  serve  the  sauce  piping  hot  in  a  boat. 
In  the  hollow  formed  by  the  potato  ring,  you  can  put  some 
flageolets  a  la  maltre  d'hufel,  ov  petits  pois. 

5. — Speaks  for  itself.  Pray  follow  my  advice  about 
trimming  your  French  beans,  (page 
.iSocbbe^u."""  !•">  '^"'l.'iish  them  with  a  pat  of 
butter  boiling  hot,  added  at  the  very 
last  moment.  The  best  way  by  far  to  cook  the  beans  provid- 
ed they  are  young  and  tender,  is  in  the  jar  like  peas,  (page 
135)  or  in  the  steamer  of  a  Wan^en's  pot ;  trim  the  beans 
as  explained  already,  and  put  them  into  the  jar  or  steamer, 
with  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
sugar,  and  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Steam  the  jar 
as  described  for  peas  :  when  done,  drain  the  beans,  and 
serve  with  a  pat  of  butter  boiling  hot. 

Unless  French  beans  are  young  and  tender,  it  is  useless 
trying  to  cook  them  in  the  jar.  A  tin  of  haricots  verts 
should,  in  this  case,  be  substituted. 

6. — Buy  eight  fat  quails,   four  sheep's  tongues,  half  a 
pound  of  lamb's  liver,  and  a  couple  of 

Jet'V'rtvS-e  l^'^'^'J^  °f  ?'-^^y  '^'^^t-  ^^''^^  ^^-^  "^t 
sauce.  once  with  the  last,  stew  the  tongues, 

and  bone  the  quails  :  throw  the  bones 

into  the  gravy,  and  all    scraps  you  may  have  of   bacon. 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 


&C.J  next  trim  your  cold  sheep's  tongues,  and  cut  eight 
nice  fillets,  the  size  of  a  walnut,  from  the  centre  of  them. 

Now,  place  your  boned-birds,  bi^ast  downwards,  on  a 
board,  and  dust  them  over  with  spiced  pepper.  Pro- 
ceed to  make  a  forcemeat  thus  : — Melt  a  couple  of  thick 
slices  of  fat  bacon  in  a  frying-pan  ;  when  melted,  throw  in 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  the  lamb's  liver,  with  those  of  the 
birds  too,  cut  into  dice,  and  one  onion  shredded  finely  ; 
cook  the  liver  in  this,  and  when  done,  empty  the  contents 
of  your  pan,  melted  bacon  and  all,  into  a  mortar,  throw  in 
the  remains  of  the  sheep's  tongues  which  were  left  after 
making  the  fillets,  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  work  this  to  a  paste,  pass  it  through  the  sieve, 
add  some  finely  minced  parsley,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  spiced 
pepper,  a  little  grated  lime  peel,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
chopped  truffles  fsaved  from  entree  No.  1)  ;  work  this 
again  thoroughly,  and  spread  a  layer  of  it  over  the  flatten- 
ed quails  :  place  one  of  the  tongue  fillets  in  the  centre  of 
each  quail,  and  spread  another  layer  of  your  forcemeat 
over  each. 

Now,  gather  the  birds  into  shape  neatly,  sewing  the  skin 
together  securely,  and  stew  the  little  galantines  in  the 
previously  made  gravy,  with  a  little  red  currant  jelly,  a 
glass  of  sherry,  and  half  a  wine-glass  of  vinegar :  when 
done,  lift  them  out,  drain  off  the  gravy,  and  reduce  it  to  a 
glaze  (page  219)  :  paint  your  galantines  over  with  the 
glaze  when  cold,  arrange  them  upon  a  dish  which  should 
be  set  upon  ice,  and  garnish  your  dish  with  parsley,  and 
slices  of  lime.     Sauce  tartare,  also  iced,  should  accompany. 

7. — For  this  dish  (see  page  146)  I  recommend  you  to 
try  little  shortbread  biscuits  in  which 

Spinach  with  some  finely  grated  mild  cheese  has 
been  mixed ;  the  cakes  should  be 
heart-shaped,  or  round,  and  quite  crisply  baked  like 
cheese-finpfers. 


340  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

8. — A  simple,  and  refined  cold  sweet  entremets.     Dilute 

a  pot  of    strawberry  jam  with  suffi- 

Mould  of  straw-      ^:^^^^  ^^^^^,  ^^  ^^^^  enough  syrup  to 

fill  your  mould,  strain  it,  colour  it  a 
rosy  pink  with  a  drop  or  two  of  cochineal,  and  add  a  glass 
of  liqueur  or  brandy  ;  melt  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  and 
strain  it,  when  cold,  into  the  syrup,  stirring  well : — decorate 
a  plain  mould  w4th  almonds,  put  it  on  ice,  and  pour  your 
strawberry  syrup  into  it  by  degrees  ;  cover  it  over,  and 
set  it  in  ice  for  two  hours  ;  turn  it  out,  and  serve  it  with 
cold  custard  in  glasses,  or  iced  cream.  If  in  season,  you 
can,  of  course,  make  the  syrup  with  fresh  strawberries  ; 
and  when  filling  the  mould,  you  may  add  to  its  attractive- 
ness by  setting  layers  of  whole  fruit  (fresh  or  preserved) 
in  it  in  the  style  of  a  jelly. 

9. — Make  a  cake  case   (see  Menu  No.  IV,)  with  finger 

biscuits,  or  slices  of  sponge  cake  and 

Iced  apricot  cream       j^^.  ^^       |.  ^^^       ^^^^^  ^  j.^^j^    CUStard, 

pudding.  o  .  ' 

flavour  it  with  a  dash  of  liqueur,  and 

mix  into  it  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine.  Work 
the  mixture  in  the  ice  pail  until  it  begins  to  freeze  well, 
then  stir  into  it  a  good  allowance  of  chopped  crystallized 
apricots  and  a  coffee-cupful  of  rich  cream  well  whipped. 
Mix  well  in  the  ice  pail,  and  then  fill  a  mould  with  the 
frozen  mixture,  completely  covering  it  with  lumps  of  ice. 
It  should  be  left  thus  for  an  houi',  when  it  wall  be  ready 
to  turn  out  and  serve.  The  mould  should  be  just  large 
enough  to  be  covered  by  the  cake  case. 

Note. — To  adapt  this  menu  according  to  the  new  regime^ 
serve  the  saddle  after  the  fish,  and  instead  of  galantines 
of  quails,  let  the  birds  be  roasted  with  a  slice  of  fat  bacon 
over  their  breasts,  and  sent  round  with  bread  sauce,  fried 
crumbs,  and  filbert  chips  of  potato.  A  plain  salade  or 
water-cress  should  accompany  the  rot. 


nVEEHsTTJ    TsTO.    II. 


For  a  party  of  eight. 

Potage  a  la  Julienne. 

Dames  de  seer  a  la  Perigneux. 

Pilets  de  bcenf  an  crenie  d'anchois. 

Cassolettes  a  la  financiere. 

Selle  de  mouton  anx  petits  pois. 

Quenelles  de  perdreaux  en  aspic. 

Artichauts  en  coquilles. 

CEufs  a  la  niege. 

Crenie  de  pistaclie  glacee. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — The  French  preserved  Julienne  is  now  regularly 
received  by  a  well-known  firm  at 
Madras.  Armed  with  one  of  these 
tablets,  you  can  achieve  a  Julienne  soup  which  will  at  once 
show  you  what  a  lamentable  burlesque  of  the  true  potage 
you  have  hitherto  accepted  without  a  murmur  from  your 
Ramasamy.  Having  made  a  good,  strong,  and  clear 
consomme  sufficient  for  your  party,  all  you  have  to  do  is 
to  cut  off  a  portion  of  your  Julieyme  tablet,  which  should 
be  simply  placed  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  large  allowance  of 
boiling  water,  or  weak  stock,  and  allowed  to  cook  until  the 
pieces  of  vegetable  detach  themselves,  and  appear  nice  and 
tender  :  drain  them  when  thus  ready^  and  add  them  to 

34 


342  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 


your  consomme  Tvitli  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  Madeira.  Each  tablet  is  marked  for  five  portions. 
Remember  that  a  portion  is  enough  for  tivo  persons  :  I 
have  found  a  table-spoonful  of  crumbled  Julienne  enough 
for  three  basins  of  soup.  To  preserve  the  tablet  in  this 
climate,  I  recommend  you  to  break  it  up  carefully,  and 
cork  it  down  in  a  dry  bottle. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  Tvho  cannot  avail  themselves  of 
this  excellent  pi-eparation,  the  following  directions  may 
be  given  : — Take  equal  parts  of  can^ots,  turnips,  leeks, 
onions,  and  celery  ;  cut  them  all  into  thin  strips  not  moi'e 
than  the  eighth  of  an  inch  across,  and  an  inch  long.  Put 
them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  couple  of  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  little  pepper, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Toss  them  lightly  on  the  fire  until 
they  take  colour  slightly,  say  for  five  minutes  or  so,  cover 
them  with  a  little  bi'oth  from  the  consomme  and  cai'efully 
remove  the  grease  thrown  up  by  the  butter.  Let  the 
vegetables  thus  cooked  remain  in  the  gravy  near  the  fire, 
nice  and  hot,  until  the  time  of  serving,  when  they  should 
be  added  with  a  few  leaves  of  lettuce  and  of  sorrel  finely 
shredded  to  the  rest  of  the  co^nsomme,  brought  to  the  boil, 
finally  skimmed,  and  sent  up. 

2. — Stew  a  couple  of  handsome  slices  of  seer  fish  in  a 
good  broth  made  from  bones  and  trim- 
Secr  TTith   truffle      mings,  assisted  by  an  onion,  a  carrot, 
a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  preserved  thyme  and  mai-jorara,  a  minced  anchovy,  a 
dozen  pepper  corns,  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup, 
a  table-spoonful  of  Harvey  sauce,  a  table-spoonful  of  vine- 
gar, a  table-spoonful  of  chablis  or  sauteme.     Let  the  fish 
slices  cook  slowly  in  this  broth,  and  when  done,  drain  and 
place  them  in  a  veiy  hot   dish,    carefully  covered   up. 
Strain  the  broth  in  which  they  were  cooked,  thicken  it, 
add  a  little  well  browned  gravy,  and  throw  into  it  a  couple 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  343 

of  table-spoonfuls  of  chopped  truffles  (previously  tossed  in 
a  frying-pan  in  an  ounce  butter,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
Madeira)  and  let  the  sauce  simmer  for  ten  minutes  to 
extract  the  flavour  of  the  truffles.  When  ready,  pour  it 
over  the  slices  and  serve. 

3. — Broil  the  fillets  (which  should  be  cut  from  the  under- 
cut of  a  sirloin,  larded  with  bacon,  and 
anSovy  c^/eam!'  "'"'      marinaded  all  day)  oyer  a  bright  fire, 
and  serve  them  round  a  chaplet  of 
mashed  potato,  in  the  centre  of  which  you  may  place  a 
'puree  of  spinach,  or  a  bunch  of  water-cress. 

For  the  sauce  (which  should  go  round  very  hot,  in  a 
boat)  take  six  anchovies  from  the  tin,  wipe  them  dry,  free 
them  from  the  oil,  and  pass  them  through  the  sieve  :  add 
the  pulp  to  about  half  a  pint  of  good  veloute  (page  99) 
heat  it  up,  and  as  you  serve,  enrich  the  sauce  with  a  ladle- 
ful  of  good  cream. 

4. — Make  your  cassolettes  as  follows  : — peel  two  pounds 
of  potatoes,  cook  them  as  usual ;  when 

Potato  caeea   with      done,  stir  into  them  the  yolks  of  five 
ragout,   Fiuanciere  ,  ,  , . , , ,  .     , 

fashion.  ©ggs,    add   a   little    grated    mace,    a 

little  salt,  and  stir  them  over  the  fire 
for  five  minutes.  Now,  pass  them  through  the  sieve  :  pat 
them  to  a  paste,  and  flatten  that  out  on  your  slab  about 
two  inches  thick.  Let  it  get  cold  :  then  with  your  cutter, 
cut  it  into  cylinders  (or  little  drums)  two  inches  in  dia- 
meter. Egg  and  bread-crumb  each  cylinder,  and  fry  these 
potato  drums  till  they  are  a  bright  golden  yellow.  ISTow, 
carefully  slice  off  the  top  of  each  drum  (say)  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick  ;  place  the  caps  so  obtained  on  one  side,  scoop 
out  the  interior  of  your  drums  very  carefully,  and  put 
the  cases  out  of  the  way,  well  covered  up.  As  dinner 
time  draws  near,  fill  up  each  cassolette,  with  a  portion  of 
ragout  a  la  jinanciere,  (q.  v.)  place  the  caps  on  the  top  of 
each,  and  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven  will  bring  them  to 


344  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

perfection.  The  cases  should,  of  course,  be  prepared  early 
in  the  day,  and  the  ragout  also  :  the  former  should  only 
be  filled  up  just  when  required.  Serve  the  cassolettes 
upon  a  napkin,  and  garnish  them  with  fried  parsley. 

5. — Order  your  saddle  some  days  beforehand  and  you 
will  get  a  good  one.     Roast  it,  and 
Saddle    of   mutton       g^^^^g   ^^  ^.j^j^  ^.^^  currant  ielly,  pota- 
with  green  peas.  •'      *' '  *^ 

toes,  and  green  peas  dressed  as  you 

may  like  best,  vide  page  136. 

6. — These    are   quenelles*    of    par- 

trS'^eTa^-dl  '^^    ^^'''      ^^^'^^^S^  ^^^^^  trufees,  set  in  aspic  jelly, 
iced,  and  served  with  sauce  tartare. 

7. — This  is    a  dainty  little  entremets    de  legume  to  be 

specially  noted  by  people  living  on  the 
Artichoke  scallops.       J....  .  ,   .  ,  •  ■,     ,  , 

Hills    where   globe  artichokes  reach 

perfection.     At  Madras  we  can  occasionally  try  it  when 

the  vegetable  is  procurable.     Its  chief  charm  is  that  it 

looks  nice,   is  easily  eaten,  and  renders  all  the  trouble  of 

side-plates  for  leaves,   &c.,   unnecessary.     You  must  use 

silver    plated    coquille    shells  (easily  and  cheaply  made 

locally),  butter  them,  and  fill  them  with  plain  artichoke 

puree  made  as  follows  : — Boil  the  artichokes  ;  when  cold, 

strip  them  of  their  leaves,  scraping  off  all  the  pulp  which 

adheres  to  them  with  a  silver  dessert-knife  :  then  extract 

the  "  chokes,"  and  add  the  "  bottoms"  of  the  artichokes  to 

the  leaf  pulp.     Mash  the  whole  together  with  a  silver 

fork,  dust  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  mix  a  coffee-cupful  of 

thick  cream  with  it,  stir  it  well,  and  fill  the  coquilles,  dust 

over  the  surface  a  layer  of  very  finely  sifted  bread-crumbs, 

sprinkle  some  little  bits  of  butter  over  the  crumbs,  bake 

till  thoroughly  hot,  brown  the  surface  with  a  hot  iron,  and 

serve    on    a    napkin.     This    is    equally  practicable  with 

*  For  the  process  of  making  quenelles,  vide  Menu  No,  6,  and  for 
aspic,  see  Menu  No.  9.  ' 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  345 

Jerusalem  artichokes   (topinamlours)  with  which  a  little 
grated  Parmesan  may  be  used. 

8. — Beat  up  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 

_,  three  ounces  of  suo^ar.     Have  a  pint 

Jiigg  snow.  .  . 

and  a  half  of  milk  previously  sweeten- 
ed in  a  sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  drop  your 
egg-froth  in  separate  table-spoonfuls  upon  its  surface.  A 
few  seconds  will  cook  each  spoonful  of  froth  on  one  side, 
then  turn  it  over,  and  when  cooked  on  the  other  side, 
place  it  in  a  glass  dish.  When  all  the  egg-froth  is  thus 
cooked,  strain  the  milk  free  from  the  bits  of  eggs  that  may 
be  in  it,  and  make  a  rich  custard  with  it,  using  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  ;  flavoui'  this  as  you  like  best :  when  cold, 
pour  the  custard  gently  into  the  glass  dish  (not  over  the 
boiled  whites)  and  the  snow  will  rise,  and  float  on  the 
surface  of  the  custard.  Sprinkle  over  the  snow  balls,  and 
surface  generally,  a  few  of  those  tiny  sugar  plums  called 
"  non  pareil,"  and  serve. 

9. — This  is  an  ice   flavoured  with  pounded  pistachio 

^,      ,  nuts,  a  pale  green  colour,  and  highly 

Pistacliio  cream  ice.        ^  . .   .  <-j     ^ 

delicious. 

Blanch  four  ounces  of  pistachio  nuts,  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  with  six  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  rose 
water ;  when  quite  a  smooth  paste,  add  a  pint  of  new 
milk  very  gradually.  When  the  milk  and  paste  have 
amalgamated,  make  a  rich  custard  by  placing  the  mixture 
en  bain-marie,  and  adding  the  strained  yolks  of  ten  eggs  : 
when  the  custard  has  formed  nicely,  strain  it  through  a 
fine  sieve  ;  whisk  it  well  adding  enough  spinach-greening 
(page  50)  to  tint  the  mixture  a  very  pale  green,  and 
freeze  it,  working  into  it  a  coffee-cupful  of  whipped  cream 
in  the  usual  way  when  half  frozen. 


Note. — To  adapt  this  we?m,  serve  the  saddle  after  the 


346  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

fish,  and  instead  the  partridge  quenelles  give  pintade  au 
cresson,  a  guinea  fowl  roasted  and  served  with  water-cress, 
and  a  plain  salad.  Instead  of  the  coquilles  of  artichoke, 
croustades  d^artichauts,  i.e.,  the  same  preparation  of  vege- 
table served  in  little  oval  saucers  made  of  short-bread 
pastry  may  be  substituted. 


^ 


^^. 


nvTEisT-cr  nsro.  iii. 


For  a  party  of  eight. 

Consomme  de  becassines. 

Darnes  de  seer  a  la  Peg  Woffington. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Moscovite. 

Kramouskys  anx  huitres. 

Chapon  a  la   Fran9aise. 

Canards   sanvages,  sauce  bigarade. 

Petits  pois  au  beurre. 

Pain  de  pruneaiix. 

"  Pudding"  glace  aux  f raises. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Prepare  a   bright   clear   consomme  for  your  eight 

covers.  Slightly  roast  six  snipes  ;  let 
Clear  smpe  soup.  ij     j-    -i      x-u         •    x 

them  get  cold,  divide  them  into  con- 
venient pieces,  mash  them  in  a  mortar  and  throw  the 
whole,  with  the  exception  of  the  livers  of  the  birds,  into 
the  consomme ;  let  it  come  to  the  boil,  skimming  carefully, 
and  then  remain  simmering  all  the  afternoon  :  towards 
evening,  strain  the  liquor  from  the  bones,  and  set  it  to 
cool ;  pick  from  the  remnants  of  the  snipe  sufficient  meat 
to  form  a  dozen  tiny  c[uenelles  the  size  of  an  olive  ;  pound 
this  meat  in  a  mortar  with  the  saved  livers,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  some  chopped  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  and  a  dust  of 
Nepaul  pepper,  or  spiced  pepper ;  stir  in  a  very  little  red 
currant  jelly  and  a   few  drops  of  portwine;    stiffen  this 


348  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

with  a  little  bread-crumb  soaked  in  stock,  and  bind  the 
whole  with  two  eggs  ;  let  it  get  cold,  roll  it  out,  and 
divide  it  into  little  portions,  form  them  between  two  tea- 
spoons, and  poach  till  done  just  before  serving  the  soup, 
into  which  they  should  be  put  at  the  last  minute  :  the 
consomme  itself  having  been  meanwhile  clarified,  assisted 
by  half  a  glass  of  Madeira,  and  again  heated  almost  to 
boiling  point. 

2. — Divide  a  cut  of  seer  fish  into  eight  nice  coUops 
about  half  an  inch  thick  ;  flatten  them 
Seev  slices  with  Peg      ^^   ^  board,  butter  a  pie-dish,  pour 
Woffingtou  sauce.  •,.,-,     i.         -..,       ,1  ■,     T 

into  it  half  a  pint  01  broth  made  from 

the  fish  trimmings,  and  a  glass  of  chablis  or  hock  and  lay 
them  therein  ;  pepper  and  salt  them,  sprinkle  them  with 
some  minced  parsley,  and  a  little  shallot,  and  spread  a 
sheet  of  buttered  paper  over  them  :  bake  for  about  ten 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  and  when  done,  remove  the  paper, 
and  arrange  the  slices  neatly  in  a  hot  dish. 

For  the  sauce  : — To  the  liquor  from  the  pie-dish  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  a  table-spoonful  of  walnut 
catsup,  and  half  one  of  anchovy  sauce  ;  boil  these  together, 
and  just  before  you  remove  the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire, 
stir  in  well  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  rolled  in 
flour,  with  a  thought  of  red  pepper. 

3. — For  this  dish  select  the  nicest  choplets  you  can 
from  a  neck  of  mutton  ;    trim  them 

Mutton  cutlets  in  ^  neatly,  lard  them  with  fat  bacon, 
the  Russian  manner.  J  J  ">  ^^«v.^^xi, 

and  introduce  some  pieces  of  truffle 
judiciously  here  and  there  by  making  incisions  with  a 
sharp,  pointed,  root  knife. 

Pieces  of  tongue  may  also  be  inserted  in  this  manner  ; 
they  should  be  cut  square  at  the  head  and  tapering  to  a 
point  like  nails.  Meat  treated  by  this  process  is  called 
chute  by  French  cooks. 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  349 

When  ready,  stew  the  cutlets  very  tenderly  in  gravy 
made  from  the  bones,  flap,  and  trimmings  ;  take  them  out, 
and  set  them  to  get  cold  with  a  weight  above  them  ;  when 
cold,  mask  the  cutlets  on  one  side  only  with  reduced 
bechamel,  or  Espagnole  sauce.  When  this  mask  or  glaze 
has  set,  trim  the  edges  neatly,  and  the  cutlet  is  ready. 

You  must  now  prepare  the  socle  or  stand  upon  which 
to  arrange  your  cutlets.  This  is  made  of  ground  rice, 
and  is  not  intended  to  be  eaten.  Wash  a  pound  of  rice, 
and  boil  it  gently  with  a  little  salt.  When  soft,  pound  it 
in  a  mortar,  and  mould  it  to  the  shape  required.  In  this 
case  we  want  a  circle  about  three  inches  high  with  a  hol- 
low centre  for  a  salad,  and  sloped  gently  on  its  outer  rim 
to  admit  of  the  cutlets  being  laid  upon  it  securely. 
When  formed  satisfactorily,  the  socle  should  be  coated 
with  butter  or  white  sauce,  and  the  cutlets  arranged  round 
its  outer  face.  They  should  have  their  masked  sides  out- 
wards. The  hollow  centre  of  the  socle  should  be  filled 
with  a  salade  cuite  of  mixed  cold  cooked  peas,  flageolets, 
French  beans  cut  in  diamonds,  stars  of  carrot,  &c.  The 
top  of  the  socle  may  be  formed  sufficiently  wide  to  admit 
of  a  garnish  of  white  of  egg,  turned  carrots,  &c.,  being 
laid  upon  it. 

When  completed,  this  entree  should  be  kept  in  the  ice 
box  till  wanted.  With  the  exception  of  the  mayonnaise 
dressing,  which  should  be  separately  made,  and  poured 
over  the  salad  just  before  serving,  it  can  be  made  early  in 
the  day,  and  is  consequently  so  much  off  the  cook's  hands 
as  the  dinner  hour  arrives.  It  will  be  found  vastly  better 
than  the  everlasting  |?(Xi^f?'  defoie  gras  en  aspic.  Iced  cream 
may  be  used  instead  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  the 
salade  may  be  coidiposed  of  flageolets,  pointes  d'asperges, 
Sfc,  alone. 

4. — The  difficulty  in  this  dish  is  the  batter  which  should 
be  most  carefully  considered. 

35 


350  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

Beat  np  the  yolks  only  of  three  eggs,  with  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  brandy,   one  of  olive  oil,  and 
Oyster  Kramouakys.         ,  r?       u         ,  •      •    x 

three  or  tonr  of  cold  water  :  mix  into 

this  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of 
salt ;  beat  this  to  a  paste  for  ten  minutes,  preparing  a 
ratlier  thicker  batter  than  you  would  for  ordinary  fritters  : 
at  the  time  of  using,  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs 
whipped  to  a  stifi  froth. 

Wash  your  oysters  (about  a  dozen  and  a  half  good  ones) 
early  in  the  day.  Parboil  them,  if  fresh,  beard  them, 
and  put  them  to  marinade  for  two  hours  in  the  juice  of 
three  or  four  limes,  a  sliced  onion,  some  whole  pepper  and 
a  few  cloves.  Lift  them  out  of  this  when  wanted,  cut 
them  up,  bind  the  mince  together  with  a  liaison  of  yolks 
of  eggs  and  thick  white  sauce,  and  let  it  get  cold  and  finn. 
Then  divide  it  into  six  portions,  each  the  size  of  an  ordi- 
nary wine  cork,  and  place  them  on  six  slices  of  previously 
boiled  bacon  ;  roll  up  your  bacon  fillets,  and  fix  them  with 
white  of  egQ  ;  dip  them  now  into  the  batter,  and  lay  them, 
ever  so  gently,  in  your  frying  basket,  plunge  this  into  a 
seething  bath  of  fat,  and  fry  a  golden  yellow.  Serve 
prettily  garnished  with  curly  parsley. 

Instead  of  bacon,  very  thin  wafer-like  pancakes  may  be 
used  cut  into  pieces  the  required  size  :  and  cow's  udder 
is  recommended  by  some  authors. 

5. — The  capon  in  this  receipt  should  be  braised,  with  a 
pint  of  good  stock  round  it,  an  onion 
^  Capon  in  the  French  ^^^  ^^^  carrots,  sliced,  half  a  glass  of 
sherry,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  : 
a  few  slices  of  fat  bacon  should  be  pinned  over  the  breast, 
and  the  larding  needle  may  be  used  also.  Braise  gently 
till  done.  Lift  the  capon  out  of  the  pan,  strain  and  reduce 
the  gravy  in  which  it  was  cooked,  add  a  couple  of  table- 
spoonfuls  of  minced  truffle,  and  pour  this  over  the  bird 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  351 


before  serving ;  sippets  of  dry  fried  bacon,   and  slices  of 

lime  may  garnisb  the  dish. 

6. — Roast   the  wild   ducks,  and  serve   them  with  this 

sauce  : — Pare  as  thin  as  possible  the 

Roast   wild   ducks      ^'^^^  ^f  ^^o  orano^es  (sweet  limes),  cut 
with  Bigarade  sauce.  °       \  ' 

them  into  thin  shreds  and  boil  them 

in  water  for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  put  them  aside.  Melt 
an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir-  into  it  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour,  and  a  breakfast-cupful  of  common  stock 
(made  with  scraps,  and  the  giblets  of  the  ducks,)  pepper, 
salt,  and  the  juice  of  the  oranges,  with  a  pinch  of  sifted 
sugar,  a  table-spoonful  of  Marsala,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
chilli  vinegar  ;  now  add  the  boiled  rinds,  stir  till  the  sauce 
boils,  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

7. — Wash  the  contents  of  a  tin  of  petits  pois  in  cold 

water,  by  emptying  the  tin  into  your 

Green    peas    with      strainer  and  pouring  a  jug  of  water 

over  them.     Put  them  into  a  jar,  (or 

small  sauce-pan  with  a  close  fitting  cover)  with  a  large 

spoonful  of  fresh  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  sifted  sugar, 

and  a  tea-spoonful   of  salt  with  a  little  bundle  of  mint 

leaves  :  secure  the  top  of  your  jar  and  immerse  it  within 

a  large  sauce-pan  (the  water  should  half  cover  the  jar,) 

steaming  the  peas  until  thoroughly  hot.     Stir  in  a  little 

more  butter,  pick  out  the  mint,  and  serve  on  a  very  hot 

silver  dish.      Minced   ham   fried  in  butter  and  mingled 

with  the  peas  is  nice,  if  you  happen  to  have  ham  in  the 

house,  vide  page  137. 

8. — An  effective  and  most  excellent  sweet  dish.     Put 

„         .  „  half  a  pound  of  prunes  into  a  sauce- 

Prune  jelly.  .  ^         P     -.  -x 

pan  with  two  ounces  of  white  sugar,  a 

slice  or  two  of  a  lime,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  sufficient 
claret  and  water,  mixed  half  and  half,  to  cover  them  : 
stew  gently  till  the  fruit  is  quite  tender :  lift  the  sauce- 
pan from  the  fire,   drain  off  the  liquor,  stone  the  prunes  ; 


352  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

pass  the  fruit  through  the  sieve,  and  save  the  pnlp  in  a 
basin.  Crack  the  stones,  and  throw  the  prune  kernels 
into  the  pulp.  Steep  about  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  the 
liquor  that  you  strained  olf,  put  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it 
dissolve,  mix  it  with  the  prune  pulp,  and  pour  in  a  liqueur 
glass  of  cherry  brandy  and  a  glass  of  good  red  wine. 
Decorate  a  plain  border  mould  with  blanched  almonds,  fill 
the  mould  with  the  prune  liquid,  and  set  it  upon  ice  to  form. 
When  required,  turn  out  the  'pain,  and  fill  the  centre  of 
the  mould  with  whipped  cream.  Unlike  ordinary  jellies 
this  one  is  dark  tinted,  and  opaque,  but  its  flavoui*  is  quite 
beyond  question. 

9. — Line  a  pudding  mould  (see  Menu  IV)   with  finger 
biscuits,    or    slices    of    sponge-cake. 

BtJafbenles^.'"^  ^'''^  ^^^^^^  ^  ^'i^^i  custard  sufficient  in 
quantity  to  nearly  fill  the  mould ;  be 
generous  with  the  egg-yolks,  and  do  not  use  flour  if  you 
want  a  creamy  pudding  ;  tint  the  custard  a  pale  rosy-pink 
with  a  few  drops  of  cochineal,  strain,  whip  it  well  as  soon 
as  it  is  formed,  and  flavour  it  with  straAvberry  syi^up  ; 
when  ready,  add  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine  to  it, 
and  work  as  described  for  "  iced  apricot  pudding,"  Menu 
No.  1,  adding  crystallized  strawberries  to  the  frozen  cus- 
tard, and  a  cofi!ee-cupful  of  whipped  cream. 


Note. — To  adapt  this  menu,  strike  out  the  chajmn  a  la 
Frangaise,  and  insert,  after  the  fish.  Filet  de  boenf  a 
V  Itctlienne,  i^age  189. 


IS^ErrXJ    Z>TO.    I^T. 


I 


For  a  party  of  eight, 

Consomnie  de  poisson. 

Filets  de  pomfret  a  la  poulette. 

Croquettes  de  canard  a  la  bordelaise. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  au  creme  de  fromage. 

Chapon  au  cliou-fleur. 

Creme  de  topinambours. 

Gelee  de  marasquin  aux  fruits. 

Charlotte  a  la  Sicilienne. 

Fromage,  hors  d'ceuvres. 


I 


Dessert. 

-This  is  a  clear  soup  flavoured  with  fish.     A  crab  for 

instance  answers  the  purpose  admir- 
Clear  fish  soup.  1,11,0.  £  1,        -n     i          t    ^ 

ably,  but  any  fish  will  do.     Let  us 

take  the  crab.     Make  ordinary  clear  consomme  for  the 

number  you  expect.     One  large  crab  or  two  small  ones 

will  suffice  for  eight  basins.     Boil  the  crab :  drain  and 

clean  it :  pick  out  the  flesh,   saving  that  of  the  claws  for 

garnishing.     Pound  the  rest  of  the  meat  and  shells  in  a 

mortar,   put  the   whole  of  it  into  the   consomme  you  have 

made,  with  a  little  bag  containing  a  quarter  ounce  of  dried 

basil,   and  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour,   strain  through  a 

fine  sieve,   or  tamis  cloth, — it  should   now  be  bright  and 

clear, — heat  it  up  again,  and  pour  it  into  your  soup  tureen 

over  some  little  quenelles  made  of  the  claw  meat  you  saved 


354  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

A  table-spoonful  of  Madeira  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lime, 

constitute  the  finishing  touches  of  this  soup. 

2. — Divide  one  large,  or  two  small  promfrets  into  fillets 

as  neatly  as  you  can,  season  them  on 

Pomfret  fillets  with  qj^^  side  with  a  very  little  finely  minc- 
Foulette  sauce.  *'  '' 

ed   (cooked)   onion,   parsley,    and   the 

trimmings  of  the  mushi'ooms  you  are  about  to  use  for  the 
sauce.  Roll  them  np  enveloping  the  seasoning  within 
each  fillet.  Now  set  them  to  simmer  gently  till  done,  in  a 
court  houillon,  or  broth  made  from  their  own  bones  and 
trimmings,  assisted  by  a  breakfast-cupful  of  stock,  a  spoon- 
ful of  chablis  and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar.  Lift  them  out 
when  done,  strain  off  the  broth,  thicken  it  as  carefully  as 
you  can  in  the  hain-maric  with  a  little  flour,  and  butter, 
and  the  strained  yolks  of  four  eggs,  add  a  dozen  button 
mushrooms  cut  into  quarters,  a  little  white  pepper  and 
salt,  and  as  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful 
of  cream.  Pour  this  over  your  fillets  which  have,  of 
course,  been  kept  hot  in  the  hain-marie  whilst  the  sauce 
was  being  made. 

3. — These  are  croquettes  made  of  duck  and  arc  exceed- 
ingly nice.     Roast  the  bird  lightly, 

.i?h'Bol'deS":uce'  ^^^  ''  S'^'  <'°^^'  t^en  Cut  off  all  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  saving  every 
atom  of  skin,  bone,  liver,  &c.  Put  the  meat  away  for 
awhile,  giving  it  a  good  dusting  with  black  pepper  and 
salt. 

Now  for  the  sauce  : — Mince  an  onion,  and  one  clove  of 
garlic  (a  sine  qua  non)  and  stir  the  mince  into  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  small  sauce- 
pan, let  it  fry  a  pale  brown,  now  throw  in  all  your 
fragments  of  duck,  having  mashed  the  bones  in  a  mortar,  a 
breakfast-cupful  of  strong  gravy,  the  rind  of  a  lime  ;  a 
dozen  pepper  corns,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste  : 
add  water  enough  to  cover  the  bones  well,  and  let  the 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  355 

contents  of  the  sauce-pan  simmer,  skimming  off  the  scum 
that  rises.  In  half  an  hour  you  will  have  a  well- flavoured 
broth.  When  quite  satisfied  with  the  broth,  strain  it  off, 
let  it  cool,  skim  it,  and  thicken  it  plainly  with  flour  and 
butter.  Place  the  sauce-pan  in  the  6ai?i-mar*e-pan,  and 
let  it  keep  hot  there.  Now  take  a  tumblerful  of  sauterne, 
put  it  into  a  small  sauce-pan  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
minced  onion,  a  sait-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Boil  till  the  liquid  has  been  reduced  to  half  its 
original  quantity.  Then  strain  it  into  the  previously 
made  sauce.  Give  the  whole  a  simmer  for  ten  minutes 
and  serve. 

In  this  instance  we  make  our  gravy  or  foundation  of 
the  sauce  with  the  duck  bones,  &c.,  for  the  sake  of  eco- 
nomy.    The  basis  of  true  Bordelaise  is  Esjpagnole. 

In  making  the  croquettes  of  the  duck  meat  you  saved, 
use  some  minced  bacon,  lean  and  fat  in  equal  shares,  one 
tea-spoonful  to  each  croquette,  the  bii^d's  liver,  any  truffle 
or  mushroom  parings  there  may  be  to  spare,  and  put  one 
olive  farcie  whole  hi  the  centre  of  each  :  season  the  pound- 
ed meat  with  pepper  and  salt,  do  not  use  any  spice,  but 
dry  some  sage  leaves  in  the  oven,  and  make  a  powder  of 
them,  giving  about  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  the  powder  to 
each  croquette.  Bind  the  croquettes  with  egg,  form  them 
into  egg-shaped  balls,  bread-crumb  them  in  the  usual 
way,  and  fry  them  a  pale  golden  yellow  in  abundance  of 
fat.  Dish  them  round  a  ring  of  mashed  potato,  filling 
the  centre  with  a  pyramid  of  joetits  pais  verts,  and  sending 
round  the  Bordelaise  sauce,  piping  hot,  in  a  boat. 

4. — A  nice  dish  of  neck   cutlets   trimmed  neatly  and 
grilled  over  a  very  fast  fire.     Each 
Mutton  cutlets  ;vith      ^^^^^^         j^^  ^^  ^^  dipped  into  melted 
cheese  sauce.  °  '■  ^ 

butter,  or  brushed  over  with  salad  oil 

before  it  is  placed  on  the  grid-iron.     The  sauce  should  be 


350  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

made  thus  : — Parboil  two,  or  three,  fair  sized  Bombay 
onions,  cut  them  up  roughly  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  ladleful  of  butter,  a  pincTi  of  sugai',  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  fancy  ;  let  them  cook  slowly  so  that  they  do 
not  take  colour,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  boiled  rice,  or 
pearl  barley,  and  a  cupful  of  broth  and  let  the  simmering 
go  on  till  the  lumps  of  onion  are  quite  soft ;  then  add 
a  heaped  up  table-spoonful  of  finely  grated  cheese,  stir 
this  in  well  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  lift  it  up,  and 
work  the  mixture  through  the  sieve  as  you  would  a  puree. 
Heat  it  up  gently  in  the  bain-marie,  and  at  the  last 
stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  rich  cream.  Serve  the  cutlets 
round  a  wall  of  '  savoury  rice'  and  fill  in  the  centre  with 
French  beans  a  la  maitre  d' hotel.  Let  the  sauce  go  round 
in  a  boat  with  the  entree  :  it  ought  to  be  a  thick  creamy- 
looking  sauce  of  the  consistency  of  tartars. 

5. — Lard  your  capon,  roast  him  with  the  utmost  care, 
basting    with    melted    butter ;    let    a 

Capon   with  cauli.      Bombay  onion  be  put  inside  the  car- 
flower.  ''  ^ 

cass,  and  sew  up  the  vent ;  be  parti- 
cular with  your  stuffing ;  and  let  a  curl  of  crisply  fried 
streaky  bacon  accompany  each  plate.  The  bread  sauce 
must  be  carefully  composed,  and  the  cauliflower  and 
potatoes  freshly  turned  out,  that  is  to  say,  not  ruined  by 
being  hawked  about  with  your  entrees. 

G. — For  this  excellent  entremets  de   legume,   see  page 
149, — As  you  have  already  used  creme 

artichokef '^^''''^^''"'      ^^^  f^^^^^^Q^  ^^   t^^is  mejiu,   serve  the 
mould    (if   hot)     with   a   garnish   of 
tomato  puree,  (q.  v.  page  242.)  if  cold,  with  pure  cream, 
iced. 

7. — Put  two  ounces  of  gelatine  in  an  enamelled  stew-pan 

.,,   „    .,  with    three    quarters    of   a   pound  of 

Jelly  witU  fruit.  ^  ^ 

sugar,     beat    three    whites    of     eggs, 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  357 

moisten  tliem  witli  one  quart  of  water  and  the  juice  of  one 
lime ;  pour  the  whole  into  the  stew-pan  containing  the 
gelatine,  and  pnt  it  on  the  fire,  whisking  the  liquid  con- 
tinually until  it  boils.  Take  the  pan  from  the  fire,  let  the 
liquid  cool,  and  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  pouring  it 
back  and  straining  again  until  it  is  quite  clear.  When 
cold,  flavour  the  jelly  with  maraschino,  a  wine-glass  will 
be  sufficient,  and  let  it  rest  awhile.  IS'ow  prepare  a 
macedoine  of  fruits,  preserved  cherries,  strawberries, 
apricots,  greengages,  and  raspberries,  and  fill  the  jelly 
mould  as  follows  : — first  set  it  upon  ice,  and  pour  into  it 
about  one-eighth  thickness  of  the  jelly,  arrange  some  fruit 
tastefully  in  this  layer,  cover  it  with  jelly,  and  continue 
layers  of  fruit  and  of  jelly  until  the  mould  is  nearly  full, 
then  finish  it  with  jelly  only,  cover  the  mould  with  ice, 
and  turn  it  out  when  finally  set  and  quite  firm.  Iced 
cream  en  hloc  may  accompany. 

8. — This  is  an  iced  pudding  flavoured  with  chocolate. 
First  note  the  way  in  which  the  case 
Sidlienne^''^''^^^  ^  ^"^  should  be  made,  which  is  applicable  to 
all  iced  puddings  in  cake  cases.  Cut 
the  slices  of  cake  the  length  of  the  depth  of  the  mould, 
the  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  an  inch  and  a  half  wide  : 
cut  a  circular  piece  the  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  mould. 
Make  a  cement  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  an 
ounce  of  finely  sifted  sugar.  Arrange  the  slices  round 
the  side  of  the  mould  slightly  overlapping  one  another, 
and  cement  them  firmly  together,  fixing  their  ends  to  the 
circular  top  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould.  "When 
the  cement  dries,  the  case  will  be  quite  firm.  Choose  a 
mould  for  the  ice  slightly  smaller  than  this  case,  so  that 
the  latter  may  cover  it  nicely.  When  firmly  set,  the  cake 
case  may  be  turned  out  upon  a  dish,  and  its  outside 
brushed  over  with  some  thin  cement,   and  sprinkled  over 

36 


358 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT, 


with  chopped  pistachio  nuts,  almonds,  sugar  plums  (non 
pareils)  or  crystallized  sugar. 

For  the  ice  : — Dissolve  two  ounces  of  chocolate  in  a  pint 
of  boiling  milk,  when  quite  smooth,  and  cold,  add  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  a  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla  essence  and  the 
yolks  of  ten  eggs  :  make  a  custard  of  the  mixture  adding 
two  ounces  of  sugar.  Stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved 
gelatine  while  the  custard  is  warm,  and  whip  it  briskly 
and  put  it  into  the  freezer.  Freeze,  mixing  into  the  half- 
frozen  custard  a  coffee-cupful  of  whipped  cream.  Turn  it 
out  when  ready,  cover  with  the  case,  and  serve. 


Note. — To  adapt  this  menu,  you  need  only  insert  after 
the  fish,  Bceuf  a  la  mode,  vide  page  123. 


jvrEnsrxj  isTcd.  at- 


for  a  party  of  eight, 

Potage  a  la  Brunoise. 

Seer  a  la  Napolitain. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Reforme. 

Croustades  de  lapin  a  la  reine. 

Entrecote  de  bceiif  a  la  Chateaubriand. 

Salpicon  de  gibier  en  caisses. 

Tomates  au  gratin. 

Beignets  de  pecbes. 

"  Pudding"  glace  aux  cerises. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Brunoise  is  a  soup  something  like  Julienne,  but  of  a 

distinct  character  on  account  of  the 
Brunoise  soup.  .         i  •  i     ,  i  ,    i  i 

manner  m  which  the  vegetables  are 

prepared  for  it.  Make  consomme  enough  for  your  partj. 
Cut  some  carrots,  turnips  and  celery  into  dice  :  melt  a 
piece  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  loaf-sugar.  First  put  in  the  dice  of 
carrots  and  toss  them  on  the  fire  till  they  begin  to  brown, 
next  the  celery,  and  lastly,  the  turnips  with  a  little  chop- 
ped onion.  Work  them  all  together,  and  after  a  few 
minutes,  add  some  of  the  consomme  :  set  the  sauce-pan  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  ;  during  this  process 
the  butter  will  be  thrown  up  to  the  surface  in  the  form  of 


360  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

scum,  skim  this  off  very  carefully ;  when  clear,  add  the 
rest  of  the  consomme^  let  it  come  to  the  boil,  and  the  soup 
will  be  ready  to  serve.  A  dessert-spoonful  of  Madeira  is 
enough  wine  for  the  whole  tureen. 

2. — This  is  a  dish  of  fish  aii  g  rat  in.     Divide  a  good  cut 

of    seer  fish   into   slices   half  an  inch 

Seer,      Neopolitan      ^^^^^  ^^^  ^^^  ^^^.^  ^^^^  portions  about 

large  enough  for  each  guest.  Boil 
some  maccaroni  till  tender  :  slice  up  some  nice  ripe  toma- 
toes, have  your  bottle  of  Parmesan  cheese  by  your  side, 
and  a  plate  upon  which  you  should  tui-n  out  the  mushrooms 
onl}^  (not  the  gravy)  of  a  tin  of  black  Leicestershire 
mushrooms.  Now,  butter  a  nice  sized  pie-dish  (not  too 
deep  in  the  sides)  and  arrange  the  maccaroni  on  the 
bottom  of  it :  dust  over  the  maccaroni  a  little  of  the 
Parmesan :  now  put  a  layer  of  the  sliced  tomatoes,  and 
arrange  your  portions  of  fish  thereon  with  a  piece  of 
mushroom  between  each  of  them,  and  a  slice  of  tomato  in 
the  centre  of  each  :  pour  a  breakfast-cupful  of  sauce  blonde 
over  all,  give  a  light  surface  dressing  of  Parmesan  and 
bake  the  dish  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  A  little 
pepper  and  salt  should  be  shaken  gently  over  each  layer 
as  you  pack  the  dish.  There  is  so  much  moisture  in  the 
tomatoes,  that  only  a  very  little  white  wine  like  chablis, 
hock,  or  sauternc,  or  gravy  should  be  added  as  a  finishing 
touch.     The  oven  should  be  quite  hot. 

3. — Set  ten  nice  neck  chops,   very   neatly    trimmed,   in 

marinade  all  day.  Towards  cveninof 
Reform  cutlets.  i-r,   .i  i.        •       ^i  i  j 

litt  them  out,  wipe  them  dry,  and  pro- 
ceed to  bread-crumb  them  as  laid  down  at  page  67.  In 
this  case  you  must  mix  very  finely  minced  ham  with  the 
crumbs  at  a  proportion  of  half  and  half.  When  the  time 
arrives,  the  cutlets  must  be  very  delicately  fried  in  plenty 
of  boiling  fat,  and  served  as  soon  as  they  reach  that  bright 
golden  tint  I  have  so  often  mentioned.      Place  the  cutlets 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  361 

round  a  ring  of  mashed  potato,  v^ith.  puree  de  pois  verts  in 
the  centre,  sending  round  in  a  boat  separately  a  sauce 
made  as  follows  : — 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan,  one  Bellary  onion  cut  into  rings, 
two  sprigs  of  curled  parsley,  two  ounces  of  pounded  lean 
ham  or  bacon,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  carrot  cut  up,  and  a 
tea-spoonful  of  thyme  leaves  ;  cover  them  with  a  pint  of 
Espagnole  sauce  (page  96)  and  add  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
anchovy  vinegar,  and  one  of  chilli  vinegar.  Boil  up,  sim- 
mer for  ten  minutes,  skimming  carefully,  then  boil  again 
reducing  the  sauce  to  the  thickness  of  cream  :  now  add  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly  and  one  of  good  mush- 
room ketchup  ;  stir  till  the  jelly  is  dissolved,  adding  half 
a  glass  of  Madeira  ;  stir  again,  and  pass  the  sauce  through 
the  strainer  :  keep  it  hot  in  the  bain-marie,  and  add  just 
before  serving,  the  following  mixture  : — the  whites  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs,  four  black  Leicestershire  mushrooms, 
two  gherkins,  and  half  an  ounce  of  lean  ham,  all  chojDped 
up  into  small  dice,  and  dusted  over  with  white  pepper. 

4. — Take  eight   stale   dinner  rolls,    which   have   been 
lightly  baked  in  cvlindrical  tins  about 

.khTatbiUugout'''  t^™  i^^li^^  i"  diameter  ;  cut  them  8o 
as  to  leave  a  case  about  an  inch  and  a 
half  deep  :  scoop  out  every  atom  of  crumb,  and  trim  the 
tops  that  you  cut  off  neatly,  so  as  to  form  a  lid  for  the 
top  of  the  hollowed  rolls.  Fry  the  cases  and  their  lids  in 
butter  till  of  a  golden  yellow,  and  set  them  on  one  side 
to  dry. 

Choose  a  small  rabbit,  some  tongue  ham  or  lean  bacon, 
a  few  sweet-breads  if  you  can  get  them,  and  have  ready 
some  cocks'  combs,  sliced  mushrooms,  a  little  grated  lime 
peel,  and  a  slice  of  truffle  for  the  top  of  each  croustade. 
Now  remove  the  fillets  from  the  rabbit's  back  and  divide 
them  into  pieces,  or  cut  them  with  a  cutter  about  the  size 
of  a  shilling.     Put  the  rest  of  the  rabbit  into  a  stew-pan 


362  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

with  the  usual  vegetables  to  yield  a  good  broth,  and 
with  it  make  a  rich  white  sauce  flavoured  with  some  milk 
of  almonds  ;  butter  a  ^aw^d'-pan,  and  cast  into  it  your 
pieces  of  rabbit  fillet  with  some  slices  of  onion  and  carrot. 
Fry  the  rabbit  gently,  and  then  add  enough  gravy  to 
cover  the  pieces.  Stew  the  contents  of  the  pan  carefully. 
Now  pack  your  croustades  exactly  like  miniature  vols-au- 
vent,  with  pieces  of  rabbit,  slices,  or  dice  of  tongue  or  ham, 
the  rabbit's  kidney,  and  the  other  ingredients,  cut  to  fit 
the  cases,  moistening  the  whole  well  with  your  creamy 
veloiite  :  put  a  slice  of  truffle  on  the  top  of  each,  and  cover 
it  with  the  cap  that  you  cut  to  fit  it.  A  few  minutes  in 
the  oven  will  bring  the  croustades  to  perfection,  when  they 
should  be  quickly  served  on  a  napkin,  garnished  with 
crisply  fried  curly  parsley.  Send  round  dry  toast  witli 
this  dish. 

5. — Trim  a  good  joint  of  the  ribs  of  beef  by  cutting  the 
tender  meat  boldly  in  one  long  piece 

Ribs  of  beef  with  ^^.^^  ^^e  bones;  the  tough  flap,  can 
ChateaubriauJ  sauce.  '  &  i  ' 

either  go  into  the  stock  pot,  or  be  set 

with  the  bones  to  produce  a  good  gravy  for  the  joint,  the 
latter  for  choice.  Fold  and  tie  the  long  piece  of  meat  in 
shape  as  best  you  can  (it  will  look  rather  like  "  roly-poly 
pudding")  and  preserve  all  the  fat  you  can  find  which 
should  be  fixed  with  skewers  :  lard  it  with  fat  bacon,  wrap 
it  in  buttered  paper  and  tie  it  to  your  spit  with  string. 
Let  it  be  roasted  over  a  clear  fire,  and  served  in  thin 
slices. 

Chateaubriand  sauce  is  made  in  this  way  : — Add  half  a 
tumbler  of  chablis  or  sauterne  to  a  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole 
sauce,  boil  them  together  and  reduce  a  little  :  then  strain. 
Boil  again,  adding  off  the  fire  two  ounces  of  maitre  dliotel 
butter,  let  it  thicken  and  serve  it  in  a  boat  as  hot  as  pos- 
sible. Potatoes,  French  beans,  and  a  nice  salad  should 
accompany. 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  363 

6. — This  is  an  economical  dish,  for  you  can  use  in  it  the 

gravy  of  the  mushrooms  saved  in  No. 

Minced  game  in      2,  the  liver  of  the  rabbit   which  corn- 
cases.  ' 

posed  part  of  No.  4,  and  the  remainder 

of  the    bottle  of    truffles  opened  for    No.  4.     Take  four 

snipes  and  four  wild  pigeons,  or  three  partridges  and  three 

pigeons,    or  any  game  you  can  get.     Roast   the  birds, 

detach  the  meat  from  their  breasts  and  set  it  aside  ;  take 

the  bones,  and  scraps,  and  with  them,  assisted  by  half  a 

pint  of  gravy  and  the  mushroom  liquor  of  No.  2,   some 

lean  bacon,  chopped  onion,  spiced   pepper,  sweet  herbs, 

and  grated  lime  peel,  make  the  strongest  game  essence 

you  can.     Strain,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  and  reduce 

this,  making  the  thickest  and  richest  sauce  possible  :  give 

it  assistance  with  red  currant  jelly,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  and 

a  little  vinegar.     Save  the  livers  of  the  birds,  and  add 

that  of  the  rabbit ;   chop  them  into  dice  with  some  fat 

bacon,  and  some  finely  minced  shallot,  toss  all  together 

in  a  frying-pan  for  a  few  minutes,  then  turn  the  contents 

of  the  pan  into  your  mortar,  and  pound  them  to  a  paste, 

mixing  with  the  composition  a  table-spoonful  of  truffle 

trimmings  minced  small,  and  some  spiced  pepper.     Now 

take  the  breast  meat  you  saved  and  cut  it  into  dice,  pack 

your  well  buttered  paper  or  china  cases  with  a  mixture 

of  sauce,  meat,  and  the  liver  paste,  dredge  some  crumbs 

over  the  surface  of  each  case,  place  them  in  the  oven  till 

quite  hot,  and  then  serve. 

7. — Empty  a  dozen  large  tomatoes  preserving  the  cases 

as  well  as  you  can  ;  stuff  them  with 
Tomatoes  augratiu.  .  , 

the   tollowmg  composition  : — io  the 

pulp  of    the  vegetable  (q,    v.  page    158)   add    sufficient 

bread-crumb  to  thicken  it  somewhat,  and  beat  up  some 

eggs  in  the  proportion  of  one  egg  to  two  cases,  mix  the 

whole    thoroughly,    flavour    with    a    couple  of    pounded 

anchovies,   a  tea-spoonful  of  minced  olives,    and   one  of 


364  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

capers.;  stuff  the  cases,  dust  them  over  with  grated  Par- 
mesan, lay  them  on  a  well-buttered  dish  that  will  stand 
the  oven,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  just  before  they  arc 
wanted,  serving  them  in  their  own  dish  buried  in  a 
napkin. 

8, — Be  very  careful   Avith  your  preparation  of  the  bat- 
ter for  these  fritters   (paofc  195)  ;  cut 

Poach  fritters.  ,  ,  ,  ,  .     *     °  .  '       . 

the  peaches  (American  ones  m  tin 
are  excellent)  into  neat  pieces  ;  dust  them  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  let  them  lie  in  a  little  maraschino,  or  any  nice 
liqueur  till  wanted,  then  dip  them  in  your  batter,  and  fry 
them  in  abundance  of  boiling  fat ;  drain  them  on  blotting 
paper,  and  serve  them  dusted  over  with  pounded  loaf 
sugar,  finely  sifted.  In  the  case  of  raiv  fruit  the  peaches 
cut  in  halves,  peeled,  and  stoned,  should  be  carefully 
stewed  in  syrup  with  a  dash  of  liqueur  and  a  little  lime 
juice  first,  then  set  to  get  cold,  and  after  being  drained, 
dipped  in  batter,  etc.,  as  above  explained.  All  fritters 
should  be  served  without  delay. 

0. — This  iced   pudding  is  similar  to  that  given  in  Menu 

No.      Ill     substituting    cherries    for 

Iced  puddinff  with      strawberries.     The  only  difference  I 
cu  ernes.  .  .       -^ 

would  suggest  in  this  : — I  would  first 

make  a  rich  custard,  retaining  the  pale  yellow  colour,  and 

adding  the  preserved  cheri'ies  to  the  partly  frozen  custard, 

with  a   liqueur-glass   of   kirsch.       In   all    other  respects 

follow  the  directions  given  in  Menus  No.  I  and  III. 


Note. — To  adapt  this  menu,  braise  the  enfrecoie  and  scry o 
it  after  the  fish,  insert  pintades  or  cailles  au  cresson  instead 
of  the  salpicon  en  caisses,  and  save  the  salad  to  accompany 
the  rot. 


i 


3^^EisrTJ    INTO-    -^rx. 


\ 


For  a  party  of  eight. 

Consomme  au  maccaroni.* 

Filets  de  pomfret  aux  fines  herbes. 

Epigrammes  de  mouton  anx  epinards. 

Quenelles  de  volaille  au  macedoine  de  legumeSv 

Quartier  d'agnean  anx  petits  pois, 

Chaud-froid  de  becassines, 

Chon-flenr  an  gratin. 

Reine-clandes  a  la  creme. 

Charlotte  Rnsse  an  praline. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oenvres. 

Dessert, 


Clear   soup 
raaccaroni. 


witli 


1. — Proceed  to  make  a  bright  clear  consomme  in  the 
nsual  way  :  boil  till  tender  in  milk  or 
weak  stock  some  pieces  of  maccaroni : 
when  done,  drain  them,  let  them  get 
cold,  and  cut  them  into  thin  rings,  add  them  to  your  con- 
somme just  before  serving,  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
sherry  to  which  a  few  drops  of  tabasco  or  chilli  vinegar 
have  been  added,  let  a  plate  of  grated  Parmesa.n  be  hand= 
€d  round  with  the  soup. 


*  If  able  to  procure  small  Italian  pastes  such  as  stelle,  gnioccoU^ 
%iesciy  anellini  ricci,  ^c,  treat  them  as  explained  for  maccaroni  aud 
call  your  soup  ''  consomm^  aux  pdUs  d'  Italie. 

37 


366  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 


2. — Divide  a  good  sized  pomfret  into  eight  nice  fillets  . 

— put  tLe  bones  and  trimmings  with 

Fillets   uf    pomfret       ^^   ^^:^q^   ^^^  ^    carrot,  a    bit    of 

celeiy,  sprig  of  pai'sley  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  into  some  water,  and  boil  them  at  once ;  meanwhile 
spread  your  fillets  on  a  board,  brush  them  over  on  one 
side  only  with  a  beaten  egg,  now  shake  over  them  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  finely  minced  parsley,  the  same  of  cooked 
onion  chopped  fine,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  minced  mush- 
room, and  a  little  white  pepper :  roll  up  your  fillets  and 
pin  them  into  shape  with  a  small  skewer.  Now  strain  off 
yovil-  liquor  from  the  bones  and  trimmings,  give  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chablis  or  sauterne,  and  set  your  fillets  in  it  to 
simmer  gently  till  done  (they  should  take  about  twelve  or 
fourteen  minutes)  take  them  out,  draw  out  the  skewers, 
set  them  on  a  very  hot  dish,  and  cover  them  up.  Now  melt 
a  lump  of  butter  quickly  in  a  sauce-pan,  work  a  spoonful 
of  flour  into  it :  throw  in  a  little  salt,  with  a  pinch  of  sugar, 
and  moisten  with  as  much  of  the  fish  broth  as  will  make  a 
nice  white  sauce  to  cover  your  fillets  ;  add,  as  you  take  the 
sauce-pan  off  the  fire,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
anchovy  vinegar,  a  table-spoonful  of  very  finely  chopped 
parsley,  a  tea-spoonful  of  minced  marjoram,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  minced  gai-den  cress.  Pour  it  ovei'  your  fillets 
and  serve. 

3. — Braise  a  breast  of  mutton  in  a  stew-pan  with  some 
white  wine  and  water,  an  onion,  two 
Avfth'f '  h"acL^  °'"^^''"  tomatoes,  carrots,  celery,  whole  pep- 
per, salt,  a  clove  of  garlic,  some  pars- 
ley, and  a  tea-spoonful  of  dried  thyme.  When  sufficiently 
done  to  enable  you  to  remove  the  bones,  draw  the  pan  from 
the  fire,  take  out  the  breast,  and  pick  out  the  bones ;  then 
place  it  flat  on  a  dish  with  a  heavy  weight  upon  it :  strain 
the  broth  and  vegetables  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked, 
putting  the  vegetables  aside,  and  setting  the  gravy  to  cool 


MENU  FOR  A    PARTY  OF  EIGHT  367 

These  operations  should  be  performed  early  in  the  day. 
When  the  breast  has  become  thoroughly  cold,  remove  the 
weight,  and  divide  the  meat  into  eight  nice  collops.  Brush 
them  over  with  egg,  and  bi-ead-crumb  them  with  some 
very  finely  sifted  stale  bread-crumbs  crisped  in  the  oven. 
Let  them  stand  for  an  hour,  and  repeat  the  process, — re- 
crumbing  them  again.  iSTow  fry  them  in  boiling  fat  a  nice 
golden  yellow,  take  them  out,  drain  them  dry,  and  arrange 
them  round  a  ring  of  spinach  (page  145)  garnished  with 
hard-boiled  eggs  neatly  cut  up,  and  fried  parsley. 

For  the  sauce  : — skim  every  atom  of  fat  from  the  gravy 
you  set  to  get  cold,  put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan, 
work  a  little  flour  into  it  when  melted,  gradually  add  your 
gravy;  stir  well,  and  let  the  sauce  thicken,  add  some 
caramel  colouring,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sherry,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  and  put  this  into  a  hot 
sauce  boat,  and  serve.  The  sauce  should  be  as  thick  as 
ordinary  rich  cream.  A  few  dice  of  sliced  cornichons 
(gherkins)  may  be  mingled  with  the  sauce,  or  minced 
mushrooms  if  you  have  them. 

4. — Choose  a  nice  pullet  not  quite  full  grown  ;  cut  it  up, 
saving  all  the  meat  from  the  breast, 

wS 'ml.™d  v'egetSs  ^'"S^'  ""^^^  ^'^'^  «"gl'^  ^^^  t^e  liver  : 

cut  into  dice,   and  throw  the  skin,  fragments,  bones,  and 

heated  up    in  nicely  -i  i   j.      •    i.                               ,           i      t       ,^ 

flavoured  white  sauce,  giblets,  into  a  sauce-pan  to  make  broth 

for  the  sauce.  N^ow  make  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  stiff  paste  with  a  little  butter,  flour,  water,  and 
a  pinch  of  salt ;  when  ready,  take  half  the  quantity  of 
butter  that  you  have  of  chicken  meat,  and  half  the  amount 
of  the  paste  that  you  have  of  butter  :  mince  the  chicken  in 
the  machine,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  the  paste  and 
butter ;  bind  the  mixture  with  three  eggs,  flavour  it  with 
a  little  spiced  pepper,  and  from  the  queyielles  between  two 
table-spoons.  For  a  dinner  party,  you  would,  no  doubt, 
put  a  nice  piece  of  truffle  inside  each  quenelle. 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 


For  the  sauce : — take  equal  portions  of  carrot,  peas,. 
turnip,  Frencli  beans,  and  cucumber^  all  previously  boiled ; 
cut  them  into  dice  and  heat  them  up  in  a  white  sauce 
made  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and 
enriched  with  the  chicken  broth,  which  should  be  slightly 
flavoui'ed  with  almond.  In  this  case  make  your  socle 
of  savoury  rice  instead  of  the  usual  mashed  potato  :  that 
is,  boiled  rice,  flavoured  with  salt,  a  little  spice,  the 
pulp  of  a  tomato,  and  a  little  finely  grated  cheese,  stirred 
well  with  melted  butter,  and  made  firm  by  the  addition  of 
the  yolks  of  two  or  three  cgg^,  according  to  the  quantity 
required.  This  should  be  set  in  the  silver  dish,  formed  in 
a  circle,  brushed  with  egg,  bread-crumbed,  and  slightly 
browned  in  the  oven ;  the  quenelles,  carefully  poached, 
should  then  be  arranged  round  it,  the  macedoine  being^ 
poured  into  the  centre. 

5. — Order  the  quarter  of  lamb  beforehand,  roast  it  very 
carefully,   and   serve  it  with   a  nice 

Q  u  a  V 1 0  r  of  lamb      ^- ^j^  q£  ^^  potatoes,  and  mint 

Tvith  green  peas.  '^  '^        '  ^  ^ 

sauce  (hot)  in  a  boat. 

6. — The   chaud-froid  will   require   one  snipe  a  head  : — 

take  your  eight  birds,  and  roast  them 

Fillets  of  snipc3  over  a  bright  fire,  let  them  get  cold, 
dressed    with    cold  ,      ' ,  ,      „  .        ,         nn    , 

aauce.  remove  the  bi^asts,  terming  two  nllets 

of  the  breast  of  each  bird.  Next 
make  the  richest  sauce  you  can  by  boiling  and  simmering 
all  the  bones,  remnants  of  meat,  and  the  trails  of  the 
snipe  in  as  much  common  stock  as  will  cover  them  well ; 
dried  thyme,  lime  peel,  a  pinch  of  spice,  a  tomato,  one 
onion  sliced,  and  some  lean  bacon  or  ham  should  accom- 
pany the  bones  ;  after  you  have  simmered  this  for  half  an 
hour,  strain  the  liquor  clear,  and  thicken  it  with  butter  and 
flour  as  previously  described  ;  slice  two  or  three  truffles, 
toss  the  slices  in  a  frying-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter, 
adding  a  table-spoonful  of  Madeira,  let  the  truffles  simmer 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  369 

awhile,  and  pour  the  contents  of  the  pan  into  the  sauce, 

stir  continually,   flavour  it  with  red  currant  jelly,   half  a 

glass  of  Madeira,   and  lime  juice,  reduce  it  to    a   firm 

glaze,   and  put  it  aside  to  get  cool.     Glaze  the  fillets. 

Decorate  a  border  mould  with  hard-boiled  egg,  gherkins, 

and  olives,  fill  it  with  aspic  jelly,  and  set  in  the  ice-box. 

As  dinner  hour  approaches,  turn  out  the  border  of  jelly, 

and   pack  the  hollow  in  the  centre  of  it  with  layers  of 

glazed  fillets,   and  the  pieces   of  truffle  here   and  there, 

let  the  whole  remain  as  long  as  you  can  in  ice,  and  serve 

with  crisp,  dry  toast  "  in  waiting." 

7. — Choose  a  nice  cauliflower  and  boil  it   cai^f  ully  ;  it 

should  be  under    i^ther    than    over- 
Baked  cauliflower.  T  OT        xl         J.  1  XT,    i 

done.  Slice  the  stem  evenly  so  that 
the  cauliflower  will  sit  up  straight.  Place  it  in  a  neat 
dish  that  will  stand  the  fire,  well  buttered, — the  flower  in 
the  centre,  and  the  tender  leaves  neatly  arranged  round  it, 
— give  it  a  dust  of  white  pepper  and  a  dream  of  salt,  then 
pour  round,  so  that  all  the  crevices  may  be  filled,  a  break- 
fast-cupful of  veloute  au  fromage,  page  242.  Sprinkle  a 
layer  of  grated  Parmesan  over  the  surface,  and  bake  the 
dish  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an 
hour, — lastly,  by  passing  a  red  hot  iron  just  over  the  top, 
brown  the  surface  of  the  cheese. 

8. — Turn  the  greengages  out  into  a  glass  dish,  dissolve 

an  ounce  of  gelatine,   and  stir  it  with 
Greengages  in  cream.  ..  ,  „  i  •        •    x    xi 

a  liqueur-glass  oi  maraschino  into  the 

syrup  :  set  the  dish  in  the  ice-box   to  get  firm  and    cold, 

and  serve  with  a  canopy  of  whipped  cream  resting  on  the 

surface  of  the  congealed  fruit. 

9.— Line  a  mould  with  finger  biscuits  as  described  in 

Menu  No.  IV.     Put  a  couple  of  ounces 

Charlotte     Russe      q£  sugar  in  a  copper-pan;  melt  it  till 
witli  burnt  almonds.  ^  ... 

it  is    very    hot ;    then    stir    into  it   a 

quarter  of  a   pound  of  blanched  Jordan  almonds  for  a  few 


370       ^     MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

minutes.  Now  spread  the  almonds  on  a  dish  to  cool,  and 
when  cold,  pound  them  to  a  'puree  saving  a  few,  which 
should  only  be  minced  roughly,  and  stirred  into  the  ice 
when  nearly  formed.  Mix  a  pint  and  a  half  of  very  rich 
custard,  and  stir  the  burnt  almond  puree  into  it  while 
quite  hot,  strain,  wliip,  and  add  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved 
gelatine.  Next  put  the  custard  into  the  pail,  adding  a 
breakfast-cupful  of  whipped  cream,  and  finishing  it  as 
explained  in  the  menu  previously  quoted. 


Note. — The  only  change  necessary  in  this  memi  is  to 
send  the  quarter  of  lamb  after  the  fish,  and  roast  tlic 
snipes,  serving  them  with  fried  potato  chips,  bread-crumbs, 
and  a  nice  salad. 


•T^C^ 


wmm 

i^i 

iviEisrxj    isTO-    ^rix. 


For  a  party  of  eight. 

Consomme  a  la  Roy  ale. 

Pomfret  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Filets  de  pigeon  a  la  Grenevoise. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Maintenon. 

Dindon  a  la  Perigueux.     Jambon  an  Madere. 

Canapes  de  becassines. 

Gjufs  aux  topinambonrs. 

Bavaroise  de  cocoa  a  la  moderne. 

"  Pudding"  glace  a  la  Nesselrode. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeu"ST?e.s. 

Dessert. 


Clear  soup  \i\i\i  cus 
tard  tablets. 


1. — This  is  a  bright  clear  soup  into  which  tablets  of 
consolidated  custard  are  cunningly  in- 
troduced. Proceed  therefore  to  make 
consomme  for  eight  covers,  and  make 
your  custard  thus  : — mix  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a 
little  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  strain  the  mixture,  and 
divide  it  into  three  equal  portions ;  colour  one  with  cochi- 
neal, one  with  spinach-greening,  and  leave  the  third  plain  : 
pour  them  into  three  little  moulds  previously  buttered, 
and  dip  them  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  :  steam  just  long 
enough  to  set  the  custards  :  take  them  off  the  fire,  and 
when  cold,  turn  the  moulds  out  on  a  napkin :  cut  them  up 
into  dice  or  any  pretty  shapes  with  your  vegetable  cutter 
as  gently  as  possible,  and  add  them  to  the  soup  just  before 


372  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

serving.  The  colouring  of  the  custard  is  obviously  op- 
tional. I  have  found  a  slight  deviation  from  this  receipt 
very  nice,  as  follows  : — mix  a  small  omelette,  flavour  it 
with  parsley  and  shallot,  and  let  it  set  rather  more  firmly 
than  you  would  were  it  required  for  breakfast :  let  it  get 
cold,  and  cut  it  up  for  the  soup  with  the  vegetable  cutter 
as  described  for  the  custard.  Grated  Parmesan  should 
be  handed  round. 

2. — Divide  your  pomfrct  into  nice  fillets,  G^g  them  on 
one  side,  and  shake  over  the  egg  some 

d'Kf^'liiou'''^'^  ^^^^^y  minced  curled  parsley.  Sim- 
mer the  fillets,  neatly  rolled  up  and 
skewered,  in  broth  made  from  their  own  bones  and  trim- 
mings, and  dish  them  on  a  hot  dish  as  soon  as  they  are  done. 
Now  melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  small  sauce-pan,  work 
into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  moisten  with  half  a  pint 
of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fillets  were  cooked,  throw  in 
a  table-spoonful  of  finely  chopped  curled  parsley,  and 
finish  the  sauce,  of  the  fire,  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten 
up  with  the  juice  of  a  lime  :  pour  over  the  fillets  and 
serve. 

3. — Lightly  roast  eight  young  pigeons  :  slice  the  breasts 
of  the  birds  off  whole,  and  place  the 

•f/"r iL'^L-L'  f.ll"      eight  portions  so  obtained  en  marinade 
with  uenevoise  sauce.  o       i     ^ 

in  oil,  vinegar,  minced  parsley,  and 
shallot.  Take  the  bones,  trimmings,  livers,  &c.,  and  put 
them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  good  breakfast-cupful  of 
gravy ;  simmer  this  until  you  have  extracted  the  essence 
of  your  pigeon  scraps,  and  then  strain  it.  Now  chop 
up  an  onion,  and  one  clove  of  garlic  (a  sine  qua  non) 
Yerj  small :  stir  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  hen's  egg 
at  the  bottom  of  a  sauce- pan  over  the  fire,  and  throw  in 
your  chopped  onion,  &c.,  let  it  slightly  brown,  and  then 
add  the  gravy  you  previously  made,  with  two  or  three 
anchovies  chopped  into  dice,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  373 

the  juice  of  a  lime,  -with  one  glass  of  claret.  Bring  this 
sauce  to  boiling  point,  let  it  simmer  awhile,  and  then 
strain  it.  Replace  it  in  the  sauce-pan,  thicken  it  with 
butter  and  a  little  flour,  colour  it  with  caramel,  and  place 
your  six  fillets  in  it  to  gently  heat  up  without  coming  to 
the  boil ;  when  quite  hot,  place  the  fillets  in  their  dish, 
pouring  the  sauce  round  them  and  serve,  with  a  crisply 
fried  curl  of  bacon,  between  each  of  them.  Petits  'pois 
verts  should  fill  the  centre  of  the  dish. 

4. — Put  eight  nicely  trimmed  choplets  of  mutton  into  a 
stew-pan  with  some  scraps  of  bacon, 

Mal^tenSn."^^'^'  ^  ^"^  ^^i^^'  c^^^^*'  ^^^^^^  ^^^^^s,  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  with  a 
pint  of  good  gravy,  and  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  gently  stew 
the  little  chops  till  done.  'Now  lay  them  out  on  a  large 
dish,  covered  by  another  with  a  weight  upon  it ;  when 
quite  cold,  trim  them  finally  into  shape  if  necessary. 
Meanwhile  strain  the  gravy  in  which  they  were  stewed, 
remove  all  fat,  and  set  it  on  one  side.  I^ow  mince  an  onion 
very  small,  and  a  few  capers,  with  two  or  three  truffles  also. 
Fry  the  onions  a  golden  brown,  add  the  minced  capers 
and  truffles  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  moisten  with  a  little  of  the  gravy,  thicken  it  with 
a  couple  of  eggs,  and  then  put  the  mince  away  to  get 
cold :  cut  some  papers  for  your  cutlets  and  oil  or  butter 
them  :  now  spread  your  cold  thick  mince  over  your  cutlets 
liberally,  roll  them,  or  rather  fold  them  in  their  papers 
most  carefully,  and  broil  them  on  the  grid-iron  sufficiently 
long  to  heat  them  thoroughly ; — or  if  preferred,  they  can 
be  just  as  well  heated  in  the  oven.  Serve  your  cutlets  in 
their  papers,  and  let  a  rich  sauce  be  handed  round  in  a 
boat  made  of  the  remains  of  the  gravy  originally  got  from 
the  cooking  of  the  cutlets,  slightly  thickened  with  butter 
and  flour,  flavoured  with  red  currant  jelly,  anchovy  vine- 
gar, and  a  spoonful  of  sherry,  all  jiidiciously  applied. 

38 


374  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

The  "  Main  tenon  cutlets"  may  be  placed  round  a  ring 
of  mashed  potatoes  filled  with  celery  puree. 

5. — Choose  a  nice  turkey,  prepare  the  biini  for  roasting, 
stuffing  it  very  carefully  as  directed 

Koast  turkey  ^\i\i      ^^  jqO.     Let    sauce   Perigueux, 

Pengueux  sauce.  ^    °  v  ■> 

(page  97)    steaming   hot,   be   passed 

round  in  a  boat,  cauliflower,  and  potatoes  accompanying. 

6. — Directions  for  boiling  a  ham  with  Madeira  will  be 

,  .  found  at  page  117.     If  you  are  able  to 

Ham  with  Maaena.  ,^    .  ^„°  .  ^/ 

obtain  a  tew  nice  slices  of  a  good, 

well-boiled  ham,  I  may  mention  (as  an  economical  hint) 
that  tossed  in  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  with  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  Madeira,  the  slices  will  do  very  well  to  accompany 
the  turkey,  but  take  care  that  they  pass  from  the  pan  to 
the  plate ^  so  to  speak, — as  hot  as  possible. 

7. — Slightly  roast  eight  snipes  ;  fillet  them  as  you  did 

the  pigeons,  saving  the  trails  ;  make 

Baked  fiUeta  of  snipe      ^^^  richest  sauce  you  can  of  the  bones, 

on  toast.  ,  •'  ' 

moistened  with  stock  and  helped  up 

with  vinegar,  red  currant  jelly,  and  a  little  sherry.     Now 

prepare  eight  pieces  of  fried  bread  for  the  eight  breasts, 

butter  them,  and  spread  the  trails  over  them  ;  pepper  and 

salt  them ;  place  a  breast  of  snipe  upon  each  trail  toast,  bako 

till  quite  hot,  and  just  before  serving,  pour  your  thick  rich 

sauce,  reduced  almost  to  a  glaze,  over  them :  let  crisply  fried 

bread-crumbs  surround  youi-  toasts.     Use  Nepaul  pepper. 

8. — For  this  entremets  turn  to  page  239.     Prepare  the 

eggs  as  laid  down  for  "  CEiifs  farcis,'' 

Eggs  with  Jerusalem  238,   and  be  sure  that  the  dish 

artichokes.  *    o  ' 

is  served  quite  hot. 

9. — Melt  three-quarters  of    an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a 

stew-pan  over   the  fire,    with  half  a 
^Bavarian  cream  with       ^^^^^^   ^f    ^^^^^^    ^   ^-^^   ^f   ^^^^^^^  ^ 

liqueur-glass  of  brandy  or  sherry,  and 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  375 

a  few  drops  of  vanilla  essence ;  strain  it  through  a  tamis 
cloth,  till  clear,  and  set  it  to  get  cool. 

Take  one  ounce  of  cocoa  powder,  and  stir  it  into  a  pint 
of  boiling  milk,  adding  two  ounces  of  sugar ;  when 
thoroughly  mixed,  strain  the  milk  through  a  piece  of 
muslin.  Let  it  get  quite  cold,  and  then  add  to  it  the 
strained  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  making  therewith  a  rich 
custard.  Set  the  custard  upon  ice,  having  stirred  an  ounce 
of  dissolved  gelatine  into  it,  and  when  it  begins  to  set,  add 
a  coffee-cupful  of  whipped  cream,  mix  thoroughly,  and 
prepare  the  Bavaroise  as  follows  : — place  a  mould  on  ice 
and  pour  into  it  a  layer  of  the  vanilla  jelly  half  an  inch 
thick,  when  set,  pour  in  about  an  inch  of  the  cream,  then 
a  layer  of  jelly  when  the  cream  has  set,  and  so  on  until 
the  mould  is  filled.  Serve  after  it  has  rested  on  ice  for  an 
hour. 

10. — Nesselrode  pudding  ought  properly  to  be  made  of 

,,„,,.  chestnuts,  but  as   we  can  rarely  s:et 

Nesselrode  Pudding.  ,  "^    ° 

them  at  Madras,  I  think  we  may  sup- 
ply their  place  with  almonds,  and  make  our  pudding  in 
this  way  : — Blanch  and  peel  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet 
almonds  (shelled)  and  two  bitter  ones.  Put  them  into  a 
stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  syrup  flavoured  with  vanilla. 
Simmer  till  the  almonds  are  soft,  then  drain  them,  pound 
them  in  a  mortar,  and  pass  them  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Put  ten  yolks  of  eggs  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream  (or  good  milk),  stir  over 
the  fire  till  the  custard  thickens,  then  add  the  almond 
puree^  strain  it  into  a  bowl,  whip  it,  and  give  the  liquid 
a  glass  of  maraschino.  Stone  two  ounces  of  raisins,  pick 
and  wash  two  ounces  of  currants,  and  cut  up  two  ounces 
of  citron,  cook  them  in  the  syrup  saved  from  the  almonds, 
drain  and  let  them  get  cool.  Now  freeze  the  custard, 
and  work  it  with  the  spatula  ;  when  partly  frozen,  add 
a  breakfast-cupful   of  whipped    cream,   and   when   the 


376  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

cream  is  nearly  set,  work  in  tlie  raisins,  currants  and 
citron :  now  close  the  mould,  and  bury  it  in  ice  for  a 
conple  of  hours. 

Observe  that  Nesselrode  pudding  is  not  served  inside 
a  cake,  or  fineer-biscuit  case. 


Note. — To  adapt  this  menu,  introduce  a  Filet  de  hoeuf  a 
Vltalienne  (page  189)  after  the  fish,  cut  out  the  canajpes 
de  hecassines,  and  substitute  flageolets  a  la  creme  as  an 
entremets  de  legume  with  the  rot.  A  hen  turkey  (dinde) 
may  be  served  instead  of  the  cock-bird,  and  a  nice  salad 
}nuRt,  of  course,  accompany. 

—  ♦ 

Green  butter  with  herring  roes 

Make  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  from  cream 
that  you  have  set  at  home,  and  put  it  in  ice  :  boil  a  hand- 
ful of  spinach  till  tender,  and  then  pass  it  through  the 
sieve  :  save  the  pulp  carefully  and  give  it  a  dust  of  pepper. 
Take  the  roes  (soft)  of  two  herrings  a  la  sardine  from  the 
tin,  wipe  them  carefully  to  get  rid  of  the  oil,  then  pound 
them,  in  a  mortar,  and  pass  them  through  the  hair  sieve. 
Mince  very  finely  a  large  bunch  of  curly  parsley,  so  as  to 
have  at  least  a  heaped  up  table-spoonful  of  it  when  minc- 
ed ;  mince  a  dozen  capers,  and  then  mix  the  whole  of  the 
ingredients  together  with  a  wooden  butter  bat,  and  shape 
it  as  you  like,  setting  it  again  in  ice  till  wanted.  There 
are  numerous  varieties  of  "  green  butter"  :  this  recipe  has, 
however,  been  proved  to  be  a  nice  one,  and  will  be  found 
useful  when  anchovies  in  oil  may  happen  to  be  unobtain- 
able. 


nvrEisrxj    isro.    ^^xxx. 


For  a  party  of  eight 

Consomme  aux  points  d'asperges. 

Filets  de  pomfret  sauce  aux  capres. 

Cliaiid-froid  de  volaille  a  la  Palestine. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Valois. 

Dinde  braisee  a  la  jardiniere. 

Salmis  de  cailles. 

Aubergines  a  1'  Espagnole. 

Gelee  de  Bordeaux. 

Parfait  au  cbocolat. 

Promage,  bors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Prepare  a  clear,  well-flavoured  corisomme  for  eigbt. 
Take  a  small  tin  of  asparagus,  open  it, 

a»P«lgus  lop7  '''"'      ^""^  t~™  ^^^^  pieces  °"t  ^P°"  ^  ^ish, 
draining  from  tbem  all  tbe  liquor  of 

tbe  tin.  Cboose  American  asparagus  if  you  can,  because 
it  is  so  much  greener  than  eitber  tbe  Frencb  or  Englisb. 
When  drained,  cut  the  tender  ends  of  tbe  asparagus  into 
pieces  half  an  inch  long  using  a  dessert-knife.  Put  tbem 
away  carefully,  and  throw  tbe  tough  ends  into  tbe  consomme. 
When  strained,  and  ready  to  serve,  add  to  tbe  soup  tbe 
chopped  green  points,  beat  it  up  to  concert  pitch,  and 
serve. 


378  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

2. — Fillet  the  pomfret,  and  make  a  fish  gravy  with  the 

bones  and  trimmings,  flavoured  with 

Pomfret  fillets  with      ^^  Q-iAon  and  a  little  celery  :  simmer 
caper  sauce.  .    *'. 

yoiu'  fillets,  nicely  rolled  in  little  cui^ls, 

in  this  gravy ;  drain  them,  and  dish  them  on  a  hot  dish. 
For  the  sauce,  make  a  sauce  blonde  with  butter,  and  flour, 
moistened  with  the  liquor  from  the  fish ;  when  smooth, 
add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  finely  minced  capers,  and  off  the 
fire,  just  as  you  serve,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  mixed 
with  some  melted  butter.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  fillets. 
A  few  drops  of  any  aromatic  vinegar  will  improve  this 
sauce. 

3. — Cover  the  breasts  of  two  good-sized  chickens  with 
paper,  and  roast  them  without  letting 
pSe.stLTfLSu!'°'*^  t^iem  take  colour  :  when  cold,  remove 
the  breast  meat  as  neatly  as  you  can, 
also  the  flesh  of  the  thiijhs  and  drumsticks.  Out  of  the 
pieces  thus  obtained,  trim  a  number  of  neat  fillets  as  nearly 
the  same  size  as  possible,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  them 
and  cover  them  up. 

For  chicken  chaud-froid  sauce  : — Take  all  the  bones  left 
after  the  above  operation,  skin,  necks,  pinions,  &c.,  and 
make  a  strong  chicken  broth  with  them,  adding  an  onion, 
some  celery,  a  carrot,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  few  almonds, 
pepper,  and  salt,  to  flavour  it  well.  When  the  broth  is 
ready,  strain  it  into  a  bowl,  skim  it,  and  proceed  to  make 
with  it  a  rich  veloute  sauce,  using  for  a  pint  of  broth  an 
ounce  of  butter  and  one  of  flour :  strain  it  and  let  it  get 
cold,  and  then  add  to  its  thickness  by  stirring  into  it  one- 
third  of  its  quantity  of  liquefied  aspic,  or  plain  strong  meat 
jelly,  and  reducing  it  over  the  fire  till  it  coats  the  spoon. 
Now  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
and  (if  available)  a  table-spoonful  of  thick  cream.  Pour 
some  of  this  over  the  pieces  of  chicken  completely  coating 
each  piece,  as  it  were,  Avith  a  thick  white  glaze.     Put 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  379 

them  away  so  that  the  glaze  may  cool  and  set.  Prepare 
a  border  of  creme  de  topinambours  (page  149)  decorating 
the  top  of  the  mould  with  carrots  and  green  peas  :  after 
steaming  it,  let  the  mould  get  cold,  and  then  set  it  in  ice. 
When  quite  cold,  turn  it  out  carefully  upon  a  cold  silver 
dish,  fill  the  hollow  in  the  centre  with  the  pieces  of  glazed 
chicken,  introducing  a  slice  of  truffle  here  and  there  as  you 
arrange  them,  and  garnishing  the  top  of  the  chicken  with 
cold  boiled  cock's  comb,  and  truffles  :  let  the  dish  remain 
in  the  ice-box  until  the  time  arrives  for  it  to  go  to  table. 

4. — The  cutlets  in  this  dish  should  be  most  delicately 

grilled,   and  served  round  a  socle  of 

Mutton  cutlets  with      V^^^^^   mashed  a  la  "  G.  C."  (page 

Valois  sauce.  131)    the  chief   feature  of   the  plat 

being  the  sauce. 

Boil  a  large  sweet  onion,  cut  up  into  dice,  in  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  vinegar :  let  it  boil  till  the  vinegar  is  entirely 
reduced  ;  let  the  onion  get  cold,  then  pound  it  and  mix  into 
it  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs.  Stir  this 
over  a  low  fire  for  a  couple  of  minutes  only.  Take  it  off, 
add  another  ounce  of  butter,  mix  it  well,  and  re-place  the 
sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  adding  half  a  pint  of  chicken  glaze 
(that  left  from  No.  3  will  do),  and  another  ounce  of  butter ; 
mix  thoroughly,  adding  finally  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped 
curled  parsley  ;  pour  this  into  the  centre  of  your  ring  of 
cutlets,  and  serve.  This  sauce  should  be  made  early,  and 
kept  hot  en  hain-marie,  for  the  moment  the  cutlets  are 
cooked,  they  must  be  sent  up,  and  the  sauce  will  spoil  if 
allowed  to  get  cold. 

5. — Braise  a  hen  turkey  in  gravy,   and  a  little  white 

wine,  with  a  couple  of  onions,  a  carrot, 

Hen  turkey  braised      ^  turnip,  a  handful  of  French 

with  vegetables.  j         o  r' 

beans,  a  breakfast-cupful  of  peas  and  a 

head  of  celery ;  when  done,  dish  the  turkey  :  strain  the 


380  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

gravy,  thicken  it,  and  cut  up  the  vegetables  into  dice  ;  add 
them  to  the  gravy  again,  heat  this  in  a  sauce-pan  quickly, 
and  pour  it  over  the  bird.  Serve  with  potatoes  a  la 
Duchesse  and  a  cauliflower. 

6. — Choose  eight  nice  quails,  clean  the  birds  carefully, 

put  a  roll  of  boiled  bacon  inside  each 
Salmis  of  quails.  i  •    i         j  xi     •  t  rv 

bird  and  sew  up  their  vents.      Iruss 

the  birds  as  for  roasting.  Melt  some  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  give  the  quails  a  tui^n  or  two  therein  till  they 
colour  nicely.  Next  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  cover  them 
with  a  rich  gravy,  and  stew  them  till  they  are  done.  Lift 
them  out,  thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  and  flour,  colour 
it  with  caramel,  add  half  a  glass  of  Madeira,  the  livers  of 
the  birds  pounded,  a  tea-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  a 
dash  of  chilli  vinegar,  and  some  finely  minced  mushrooms  ; 
heat  the  quails  up  in  this  sauce,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possi- 
ble, dry  toast  accompanying. 

7. — Parboil  eight  very  young  brinjals,  the  size  of  a 
small  hen's  egg,  cut  them  in  halves 
sauc^^^^'  ""'^^  ^'°''°  lengthways,  pick  out  the  seeds  with 
the  point  of  a  vegetable-knife,  butter 
them,  and  dredge  over  the  surface  of  each  a  layer  of 
grated  mild  cheese ;  now  arrange  them  neatly  on  a  silver 
dish,  well  buttered,  or  any  dish  that  will  stand  the  oven, 
and  bake  for  ten  minutes ;  pour  round  them  a  cupful  of 
well  made  thick  brown  gravy,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  they  were  cooked,  placed  on  a  napkin. 

8. — The   ingredients    for   this    delicious  jelly   are  : — A 

^  .  „  bottle   of  sound  claret,   six  ounces  of 

Claret  jelly.  r   r.         -,        xi 

white  sugar,   a  glass  oi  brandy,  the 

rind  of  one  well- washed  lime,   and  the  juice  of  three ;  one 

tea-cupful  of  raspberry  syi'up  or  half  a  pound  of  raspberry 

jam.     Boil  all  together,  add  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  and 

strain  through    muslin.      Decorate  a   jelly   mould    with 


■  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  381 

crystallized  cherries,  set  it  upon  ice,  pour  some  of  the 
liquid  jelly  into  the  mould,  and  set  the  cherries  ;  after 
that,  gradually  add  the  liquid  till  the  mould  is  completed. 
Thoroughly  consolidate  the  jelly  in  ice,  and  serve  with 
iced  cream. 

9. — Make  a  pint  and  a  half  of  strong  chocolate,  using 

boiling  milk,  and  two  ounces  of  the 
Pavfait  of  chocolate.       ,       ,      ,         -,    ,  ,         -,     ,       ,      , 

best  chocolate  ;    sweeten  it    to  taste, 

and  let  it  get  cool.  Now  take  an  enamelled-pan  and  break 
into  it  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  strain  the  made  chocolate, 
and  add  it  to  the  eggs,  stirring  continually  over  a  low  fire, 
or  in  the  bain-marie  until  the  custard  thickens  satisfac- 
torily. Mix  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine  into  the 
custard,  strain,  and  whip  it  well  while  w^arm  and  let  it  get 
cold.  Set  a  mould  in  the  ice-pail,  and  when  the  custard 
has  cooled  nicely,  pour  it  into  the  mould,  freeze  in  the 
usual  way,  using  the  spatula  frequently,  when  the  cus- 
tard seems  nearly  frozen,  add  a  wine-glass  of  very  cold 
syrup  flavoured  with  vanilla,  continue  the  working,  and 
then  pour  in  a>  pint  of  well-whipped  cream.  Finish  the 
freezing  thoroughly,  close  the  mould  securely,  and  bury 
it  in  ice  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Then  turn  the  parfait 
out  on  a  napkin,  and  serve. 

If  you  are  fortunate  enough  to  be  able  to  use  cream 
instead  of  milk  for  the  making  of  the  chocolate  in  the 
first  instance,  the  parfait  will  be  all  the  nicer. 


jlfOTE. — To  adapt  this  menu,  serve  the  hen  turkey  after 
the  fish,  and  let  the  quails  be  roasted  and  sent  round  with 
the  usual  accompaniments. 


39 


HVIEJSTXJ    TsTO.    1:^5:. 


For  a  party  of  eight. 

Potage  a  la  reine. 

Pomfret  a  la  Veuitienne. 

Petits  casseroles  aux  grandcs-crevettes. 

Boudins  de  pigeon  anx  olives. 

Gigot  bi*aise  a  la  clievreuil. 

Aspic  de  perdreaux. 

Champignons  an  gratin. 

Flan  d'abricots. 

Riz  glace  a  I'lmperatrice. 

Fromage,  hers  d'ceuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Prepare  your  stock  as  usual  but  without  colouring. 
Remove  the  flesh  from  a  cold  roast 
fowl,  excluding  all  skin,  and  browned 
parts  :  add  to  the  meat  so  obtained,  half  its  bulk  of  bread- 
crumbs soaked  in  stock,  and  pound  both  together  in  a 
mortar,  with  twelve  sweet,  and  thi^ee  bitter  almonds,  and 
the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Mash  and  cast  all  the 
bones  into  as  much  uncoloured  beef  stock  as  you  think 
you  will  require  for  eight  basins,  and  let  them  simmer  for 
two  or  three  hours.  Pass  your  pounded  fowl  and  crumbs 
through  the  sieve  to  get  rid  of  lumps,  gristle,  &c.,  moisten- 
ing it  with  a  spoonful  or  so  of  stock  to  assist  the  operation. 


MENU  FOR  A   PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  383 

When  near  the  dinner  hour,  strain  off  your  stock  from  the 
bones,  and  place  it  to  get  cool,  removing  all  the  fat  that 
may  rise  to  the  surface.  Now  take  a  sauce-pan  and  melt 
an  ounce  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  it,  stirring  in  a  table - 
spoonful  of  flour ;  add  a  little  stock,  and  work  the  paste 
so  obtained  without  ceasing,  gradually  pouring  in  stock, 
and  adding  pounded  fowl,  until  you  have  exhausted  your 
supply.  Let  the  puree  now  come  to  the  boil ;  remove  the 
sauce-pan  from  the  fire,  and  as  you  pour  it  into  the  tureen, 
stir  into  it  a  coffee-cupful  of  cream,  (or  that  quantity  of 
milk  with  which  the  strained  yolk  of  an  egg  has  been 
mixed)  and  serve. 

2. — Dress  your  fish  in  fillets,  and  bake  them  in  a  but- 
tered dish  with  a  slice  of  tomato  laid 
fasW^i'^*"'  Venetian  ^^^^  ^^^h  of  them,  and  a  little  chop- 
ped parsley  and  shallot,  sprinkled  over 
them.  When  done,  arrange  them  upon  a  hot  silver  dish, 
and  serve  with  the  following  green  sauce : — Boil  a  little 
spinach,  and  when  done,  squeeze  it  through  a  piece  of 
muslin :  save  the  pulp  you  obtain  for  colouring.  Now 
make  some  melted  butter,  assisted  by  a  little  fish  stock 
made  from  the  trimmings  of  the  fillets  and  some  vege- 
tables, with  a  spoonful  of  chablis  or  sauterne  ;  throw  into 
it  some  finely  minced  parsley,  a  very  little  shallot,  some 
chopped  capers,  and  gherkins,  and  colour  the  whole  with 
the  spinach-greening.  The  white  fish,  the  brilliant  green 
sauce,  and  the  scarlet  slice  of  tomato  with  each  portion, 
present  a  tasteful  combination  of  colours,  which  might 
almost  ''tempt  the  dying  anchoret  to  eat." 

3. — Put  a  pound  of  the  best  table  rice  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  quart  of  water,  an  onion,  and 

with^'prawn's^'  °^  '''^      ^"^^  °^^^®^  ^^  clarified  suet.     Simmer 
till  the  rice  is  soft,  yet  quite  whole. 
Drain  it,  and  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  grated  Parmesan,  some  butter,  pepper  and  salt 


384  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 


Stir  into  this  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  powder  it  with 
a  little  spiced  pepper.  Pass  all  through  the  sieve,  and 
pat  it  to  a  paste  on  your  pastry  slab,  about  one  and  a  half 
inch  thick.  When  quite  cold,  cut  it  into  cylinders  two 
inches  long,  and  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter ;  e^g  and 
bread-crumb  them,  fry  them,  a  golden  yellow  in  butter, 
and  let  them  get  cold  ;  then  cut  off  one  end,  and  scoop  out 
the  interior  of  each  cylinder ;  fill  it  with  a  rich  prawn 
salpicon  well  diluted  with  veloitte  sauce  :  fix  the  end  on 
again  with  white  of  egg.  Heat  in  the  oven  and  serve 
upon  a  napkin. 

N.B. — A  casserole  is  literally  a  sauce,  or  stew-pan  ;  the 
term  was  originally  given  to  cases  made  of  rice  or  potato 
which  were  moulded  on  that  pattern. 

4. — Roast  six  pigeons  early  in  the  day  ;  pick  the  meat 
from  them,  save  the  livers,  and  throw 
olivet"  *"'"'^"""''^'  all  the  bones  into  a  small  sauce-pan 
with  some  lean  bacon,  as  much  stock 
as  you  can  spare  (to  the  extent  of  half  filling  the  sauce- 
pan) some  whole  pepper,  a  sliced  carrot,  a  bunch  of  pars- 
ley, and  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  muslin  bag  containing  some 
mixed  .sweet  herbs,  and  any  scraps  of  raw  meat  you  may 
have  lying  idle.  With  this  make  a  strong  gravy,  by  simmer- 
ing it  slowly  until  almost  half  wasted  :  now  strain  the 
liquor  from  the  various  ingredients,  and  set  it  to  get  cool, 
^leanwhile,  stone  a  couple  of  dozen  French  olives,  and  par- 
boil them,  skim  the  fat  that  may  have  risen  on  the  top  of 
your  sauce,  and  then  add  the  olives  chopped  into  dice. 
Let  the  sauce  rest  awhile.  The  meat  of  the  pigeons 
should  now  be  thoroughly  pounded  with  half  its  bulk  of 
bread-crumb,  to  a  paste,  the  livers  incorporated  with  it,  and 
some  fat  bacon  ;  when  you  have  worked  this  quite  smooth, 
pass  it  through  the  sieve,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  then  fill  six  little  buttered  moulds  with  it,  here  and 
there   slipping  in    a   slice   of  truffle,    and  some  pieces  of 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  385 

mushroom.  Having  your  moulds  tlius  packed,  you  can 
set  them  in  the  hain-marie,  and  steam  them  gently  till 
they  are  done  ;  turn  them  out,  and  serve  with  the  olive 
sauce  previously  described,  thickened,  and  brought  to  the 
boil  at  the  last  moment. 

5. — Remove  the  bone  from  a  leg  of  mutton,  fill  its  place 

with  turkey  stuffing,  and  tie  the  meat 

Braised  leg  of  mut-       •  ^^^^  shape,  set  it  in  a  stewing-pan  with 
tou  with  vegetables.  ^   ^  '^  ^ 

as  much  broth  (made  from  the  bone 

you  cut  out)  as  will  half  cover  it :  throw  in  a  liqueur-glass 

of  brandy,   a  couple  of  sliced  onions,  a  carrot  cut  up,  a 

bunch  of  mixed  sweet  herbs,  or  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of 

dried  herbs,  some  whole  peppers,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a 

clove  of  garlic,  and  one  glass  of  port :  set  the  pan  on  the 

fire,  with  some  live  coals  on  the  lid  as  well  :  let  this  stew 

till  done,  very  slowly,  keeping  it  from  absolutely  boiling 

point,  and  when  it  is  ready,  strain  off  the  sauce  in  which 

it  has  been  cooked,  thicken  it,  stirring  in  a  table-spoonful 

of  red  currant  jelly,  half  one  of  anchovy  vinegar,  and  a 

glass  of  port :  serve  the  mutton  garnished  with  balls  of 

turkey  forcemeat  (page  109)  fried  in  butter,  and  pour  the 

rich  brown  gravy  round  it.     Let  haricots  verts  and  mashed 

potato  accompany  this  dish. 

6. — Gently  stew  four  partridges  in  stock  with  a  carrot,  an 

,    .  „  onion,  a  piece  of  celery,  sweet  herbs, 

Partridges  in  jelly.  -,  i  i:  ^,t    j    -  ^ri.        j 

and  a  glass  oi  Madeira.     When  done, 

set  the  birds  to  get  cold  and  strain  the  gravy  in  which  they 

were  done.     Now  cut  off  the  fillets  of  the  partridges,  and 

pick  all  the  other  meat  from  the  bones  as  well.     The  fillets 

should  be  put  aside.     Simmer  the  skin,  bones  (pounded), 

and  scraps,   in  the  gravy  again  with  a  little  red  currant 

jelly  and  lime  peel,  strain,  and  reduce  it  to  a  glaze.     Next, 

pound  the  meat  you  picked  from  the  backs,  and  thighs, 

with  the  livers,  &c.,  and  with  your  glaze  make   a  rich 

savoury  paste  of  it.      Prepare  your   aspic   jelly   slightly 


386  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

flavoured  with  tarragon,  decorate  a  plain  mould  with 
white  of  hard-boiled  egg,  slices  of  truffle  and  corniclwns, 
pour  in  a  little  jelly  and  set  the  garnish,  then  pack  your 
mould  with  the  fillets  of  partridge  between  layers  of  the 
paste  and  slices  of  truffle.  Ice  this,  and  present  it  with 
sauce  ravigote  (also  iced)  in  a  boat,  and  dry  toast. 

^^  Aspic  Jelly.'" — This  requires  attention;  the  common 
flavourless  jelly,  consolidated  with  isinglass,  should  be 
avoided  if  possible.  In  order  to  turn  out  an  aspic,  fit  to 
present  at  a  dinner  party,  you  must  proceed  in  this  way  : — 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  an  ox-foot  cleaned  and  cut  up,  with 
a  bacon  bone,  or  a  slice  or  two  of  ham  or  bacon,  any  scraps 
of  raiv  meat,  such  as  cutlet  trimmings  you  may  have,  or, 
better  far,  a  young  fowl  cut  up  as  for  fricassee,  with  a  few 
mixed  vegetables,  &c.,  as  for  soup.  Add  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  cover  the  pan,  set  it  on  the  fire,  shaking  it  occasion- 
ally :  when  the  pieces  of  meat  begin  to  take  colour,  add  a 
little  more  water,  and  in  about  half  an  hour,  pour  in 
enough  water  to  cover  the  contents  of  the  pan  completely  ; 
put  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  caramel,  and  then  let  the  vessel 
simmer  for  three  hours  very  gently.  When  ready,  strain 
the  liquor  off  into  a  bowl,  let  it  get  cool,  skim  it  carefully, 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  table-spoonful  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  clarify  it,  (q.  v.  page  33)  and  strain  it  finally 
through  a  clean  clotli,  producing  a  clear,  amber-coloured 
liquid,  which  will  set  of  its  own  accord  without  isinglass, 
if  put  in  the  ice-box. 

A  couple  of  calf's  feet,  or  four  sheep's  feet  may  be  used. 

7. — In  wet  weather  excellent  mushrooms  are  procurable 

^  ,    ,  ,,    ,  at  nearly  every  station  in  this  Presi- 

Baked  Mushrooms.  .         , 

dency  ;  assummg  that  on  this  occasion 

we  have  been  fortunate  enough  to  get  a  dish  of  a  dozen 

nice  ones,  a  very  toothsome  entremets  can  be  made  of  them 

in  this  manner  : — First,  be  careful  in  cleaning  them  ;  cut 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT,  387 

the  stalks  down,  leaving  only  a  little  of  them  within  the 
hollow  of  the  mushroom,  peel  off  the  skin  that  covers  the 
convex  side  of  the  fungus,  brush  away  any  particles  of 
earth  or  sand  that  may  adhere  to  the  pink  gills  on  the 
concave  side,  and  by  patting  the  top  of  each  mushroom, 
shake  out  all  grit.  It  is  a  very  great  mistake  to  wash  a 
mushroom  if  you  can  possibly  clean  it  in  the  way  I  have 
described.  When  satisfactorily  prepared,  clean  the  stalks 
you  cut  off,  and  chop  them  up.  Put  into  a  sauce-pan  an 
ounce  of  butter  and  stir  into  it  half  an  ounce  of  flour,  when 
mixed,  add  half  a  pint  of  made  gravy  ;  stir  well  and  throw 
in  the  chopped  stalks,  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped  curled 
parsley,  a  tea-spoonful  of  minced  onion,  a  salt-spoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  dusting  of  pepper  :  simmer  the  sauce  until  it  is 
thick  and  rich,  add  a  spoonful  of  cream,  and  then  strain 
it.  Now  butter  a  silver  dish  liberally,  place  the  mush- 
rooms upon  it  head  downwards,  fill  their  hollow  parts 
with  the  thick  sauce,  and  set  the  dish  in  the  oven  (a  brisk 
one)  for  ten  minutes.  As  soon  as  the  mushrooms  flatten 
themselves,  as  it  were,  they  are  done.  Serve  on  the  same 
dish  wrapping  a  napkin  round  it. 

8. — This  dish  is  not 'a  difficult  one.  Choose  a  tin  of 
American  apricots,  drain  off  their  juice 
and  place  the  fruit  at  the  bottom  of  a 
glass  dish  ;  add  enough  syrup  to  the  juice  of  the  fruit  to 
cover  them,  pour  into  it  a  wine-glassful  of  noyeau  or 
maraschino,  and  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine  ;  when 
cold,  set  the  glass  dish  upon  ice,  and  pour  the  syrup  round 
the  fruit  by  degrees,  letting  it  congeal  like  jelly  and 
embedding  the  fruit  firmly.  Leave  the  dish  in  the  ice, 
and  then  make  enough  rich  custard  to  form  a  layer  an 
inch  thick  on  the  top  of  the  congealed  fruit,  mix  into  the 
custard  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine,  and  flavour  it 
with  vanilla  :  when  quite  cold,  pour  the  custard  by  degrees 
over  the  layer  of  fruit ;  it  should  consolidate  also  ;  garnish 


388  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

the  surface  of  the  custard  with  whipped  cream  in  two 
colours,  pink  and  white  (the  pink  coloured  with  a  drop  or 
two  of  cochineal),  and  serve  straight  from  the  ice. 

9. — Gently  boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  rice 
till  about  half  done,  then  drain  it  and 
Jced  rice  a  I'lmpeia-  ^^^  ^^  ^^^^^  ^  stew-pan  with  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  good  boiling  milk,  and  six 
ounces  of  sugar,  add  a  coffee-cupful  of  boiling  cream,  stir 
well,  and  simmer  till  the  rice  is  done.  Let  it  get  cold, 
Next  mince  up  some  mixed  dessert  fruits,  greengages, 
cherries,  apricots,  &c.,  (preserved  ginger,  and  citron  if  you 
like),  moisten  with  a  table-spoonful  of  maraschino  or 
noyeau  and  put  the  mince  away  upon  a  plate.  Now 
strain  the  milk  and  cream  from  the  rice,  add  milk  enough 
to  fill  the  mould  you  have  chosen,  and  turn  it  to  a  rich 
custard  with  eight  eggs  :  next  set  the  freezing  pail  in  the 
ice,  put  the  custard  into  it,  and  work  it  with  the  spatula 
till  nearly  frozen.  You  must  now  add  the  rice,  with  two 
whites  of  egg  a  la  meringue,  made  in  this  way  : — put  two 
ounces  of  sugar  into  an  enamelled  sauce-pan,  and  heat 
it  with  a  little  water  till  nearly  boiling,  whip  two  whites 
of  egg,  and  add  them  to  the  sugar,  whipping  all  the 
time ;  this,  when  cold,  is  what  you  want  for  the  ice. 
Continue  working  the  spatula,  and  when  the  mixture  is 
all  but  frozen,  add  a  coffee-cupful  of  whipped  cream  the 
minced  fruit,  and  a  liqueur-glass  of  liqueur  ;  stir  well, 
freeze  a  little  longer,  then  fill  your  ice  mould,  and  bury  it 
in  ice  until  it  is  required. 


Note. — To  adapt  this  menu,  serve  the  leg  of  mutton 
after  the  fish,  and  instead  of  the  aspic  of  partridges  give 
poiilet  an  cresson  with  salade  or  roast  game.  A  poulet, 
with  really  nice  creamy  bread  sauce,   and  water-cress  (if 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  389 

the  fowl  be  a  plump  home-fed  one) ,  makes  a  very  accept- 
able rot. 


Meringues. 

Put  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  into  a  bowl,  and  whip 
them  as  stiffly  as  possible,  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  mix 
well,  and  with  a  spoon  set  portions  of  the  mixture  at  inter- 
vals on  sheets  of  buttered  paper  :  each  piece  should  be  the 
size  and  shape  of  an  egg :  dredge  some  pounded  sugar 
over  them,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  upon  a  baking-sheet. 
As  soon  as  they  assume  a  pale  yellow  tint,  remove  them 
from  the  oven,  detach  them  from  the  paper,  and  cut  them 
in  halves  with  a  very  sharp  knife.  Scoop  out  the  inside 
with  a  spoon  as  carefully  as  you  can,  and  return  them  to 
a  moderate  oven  to  dry.  After  that  you  can  fill  the  pieces 
with  any  nicely  flavoured  whipped  cream,  join  tlic  halves 
together  with  white  of  egg  cement  (page  357),  and  serve 
piled  up  upon  a  napkin. 


i(\ 


iviEiM-cr    r<ro. 


For  a  party  of  eight. 

Potage  a  la  tortue  clair. 

Seer  aux  clianipignoiis. 

Crepiuettes  de  volaille  truffees. 

Petits  pates  de  lievre  a  la  financierc. 

Filet  de  boeuf  aax  haricots  verts. 

Pluvicrs  en  caisses. 

Bouchees  d'epinards. 

Chaud-froid  de  fruits. 

"  Pudding"  glace  a  I'ambigu. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — This  soup,  which  is  simply  the  ordinary  mock-turtle 

not  thickened,  is  to  my  mind  the  nicer 

Clear  mock-turtle.        ^^^,^  ^^  ^^^  ^^^  .   ^^^^^^  ^^^^  however, 

so  I  shall  describe  both  methods.  First,  for  the  clear  :— 
Procure  the  stock  meat  as  usual,  and  either  half  an  ox- 
head  unskinned,  or  a  sheep's  head  (a  calf's  head  is  the 
proper  thing,  but  we  must  deal  with  fact,  not  fiction, 
knowing  that  we  cannot  get  veal  here),  well, — clean  the 
head  thoroughly,  keeping  the  skin  on,  and  scalding  it  to 
get  rid  of  the  hair  or  wool :  remove  every  atom  of  brain? 
and  wash  the  meat  in  several  waters,  set  it  to  soak  awhile 
in  cold  water,   and  then  place  it  in  your   soup  kettle ; 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  391 

cover  it  with  water  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  an  honr, 
skimming  all  fat,  and  scum  that  may  rise :  take  it  up  (it 
will  be  about  half  done),  remove  the  bones  and  set  it,  with 
a  weight  upon  it,  on  a  dish  to  flatten  and  get  cold,  Now 
throw  your  shin,  &c.,  into  the  soup  kettle,  adding  to  the 
cold  head  liquor  already  there,  the  bones  just  removed, 
sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the  bone  and  meat  com- 
pletely and  an  ounce  of  salt.  Proceed  now  as  for  consomme 
skimming  very  carefully,  and  retarding  the  boiling  point 
as  much  as  you  can  by  periodical  additions  of  water  : 
when  boiling  takes  place,  ease  off  the  fire,  and  add  two 
Bombay  onions  in  quarters,  a  head  of  celery,  a  couple  of 
carrots,  the  rind  of  two  limes,  a  large  bunch  of  parsley, 
a  quarter  ounce  of  dried  basil,  (sold  in  bottles)  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  dried  thyme,  and  of  marjoram,  (the  herbs 
in  a  muslin  bag)  a  dozen  pepper  corns,  two  anchovies 
cut  up,  half  a  wine-glass  of  mushroom  ketchup,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  tea- spoonful  of  caramel.  Simmer 
slowly  now  for  about  three  hours,  skimming  the  surface 
occasionally,  and  on  no  account  permitting  the  vessel  to 
boil.  Now  strain  very  carefully,  and  set  the  soup  in  a 
bowl  to  cool  and  throw  up  all  grease.  Cut  the  cold  head 
into  one-and-a-half -inch  squares,  skim  the  cool  soup  well, 
and  pour  it  into  a  large  sauce-pan  adding  the  pieces  of 
head.  Let  the  pieces  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  then 
drain  them,  and  again  strain  the  soup  :  clarify  it  if  neces- 
sary adding  a  glass  of  Madeira,  and  the  juice  of  a  lime. 
Let  this  be  heated  up  finally  when  required,  and  pour  the 
soup  into  the  tureen  over  a  dozen  or  so  carefully  selected 
pieces  of  the  head  arranged  therein.  Serve,  with  limes 
cut  into  quarters,  which  should  be  handed  round  followed 
by  the  Madeira.  The  hasil  is  most  necessary,  and  the 
whole  success  of  the  soup  depends  upon  strict  attention  to 
the  flavouring  herbs  and  ingredients.  Select  gelatinoua, 
not  meaty  pieces,  for  the  garnish. 


391  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

For  the  thick  : — Go  back  to  the  period  when  you  strain- 
ed the   soup  and  set  it  to  get  cool. 

Thick  mock-turtle.        m   i  i  i  ij^     j^ 

lake  a  large  sauce-pan,  and  melt  at 
the  bottom  of  it  three  ounces  of  good  butter,  mix  into  it 
three  ounces  of  flour,  when  it  looks  nice  and  velvety,  gently 
add  the  soup,  stirring  it  in  by  cupfuls.  Put  into  it  the 
pieces  of  head,  a  glass  of  Maderra,  and  the  juice  of  a  lime. 
Let  the  soup  come  to  the  boil  to  thicken  properly,  and  let 
it  simmer  slowly  immediately  afterwards,  constantly  stir- 
ring to  prevent  the  meat  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
When  ready  (which  you  will  decide  by  testing  the  meat) 
you  can  add  a  little  more  Madeira  if  you  find  it  needed, 
and  serve. 

Some  people  make  small  forcemeat  balls  of  hard-boiled 
eggs  pounded  with  some  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  spice,  flour, 
and  a  raw  ay^*^  ;  or  of  chicken,  with  a  little  ham  or  tongue, 
savoury  herbs,  crumb  of  bread  and  eggs ;  these  they 
poach  in  gravy,  and  add  to  the  soup  when  serving.  I 
tliiiik  however  that  the  soup  costs  trouble  enough  without 
them,  and,  so  many  people  misunderstand  what  they  arc, 
iliat  making  forcemeat  balls  is  often  lost  labour. 

2. — Choose  a  good  deep  cut  of  seer  fish.     Take  about  a 

pint  of  thin  brown  gravy,  a  little  onion. 

Seer  witb   mush.      ^  carrot  cut  up,  a  bit* of  celery,  and 

looms.  t^  .         .  1  ,  , 

some  parsley ;  flavour  it  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chablis  or  sauterne,  and  one  of  mushroom 
ketcliup,  a  tea-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  and  a  little 
lime  juice  :  stew  the  fish  in  this  liquor  very  gently.  Wlien 
done,  strain  it,  thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  and  flour, 
adding  a  dozen  "  black  Leicestershire"  mushrooms  ;  heat 
np  without  boiling,  and  serve. 

3. — Roast  a   fair  sized  fowl,  protecting  the  breast  from 

burning  by  a  buttered   paper ;  when 

CV^pinettes  of  fowl      p^,|^|^  Qtxvxe  the  bird  carefully,  picking 

trutned,  £!•     11     1  1   • 

on  all  the  white  meat  you  can  ;  remove 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  393 

the  skin  from  these  pieces  and  put  them  aside.  Break  up 
the  carcass,  and  throw  it,  with  all  fragments  of  skin  and 
bone,  and  the  giblets  of  the  fowl  previously  saved,  into  a 
sauce-pan,  with  as  much  stock  as  will  cover  the  whole  ; 
add  two  onions,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  carrot,  sweet  herbs, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  simmer  the  contents  of  your  pan  as 
long  as  you  can,  finally  adding  half  a  glass  of  sherry,  and 
bringing  the  broth  to  the  boil.  Now  strain  it,  remove  all 
fat  that  may  rise,  and  reduce  the  sauce  a  little  ;  thicken  it 
with  butter  and  flour,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  up  with  the  juice  of  a  lime.  Let 
the  sauce  get  cold.  Next  slice  up  four  good  sized  truffles 
and  toss  the  slices  in  a  frying-pan  in  some  melted  butter, 
adding  a  liqiieur-glass  of  Madeira,  and  a  little  stock  ;  when 
the  liquor  boils,  stop,  and  pour  the  contents  of  the  pan 
into  a  bowl.  / 

Make  one  or  two  very  tliin  pancakes,  cut  out  of  them 
eight  pieces,  five  inches  long  and  four  wide,  and  put  them 
aside.  Now  make  the  nicest  mince  you  can  of  the  cold 
fowl,  diluting  it  with  the  cold  sauce,  and  adding  the  liquor 
in  which  the  truffles  were  cooked.  Stir  in  a  raw  eg^  as  it 
leaves  the  fire  and  let  it  get  cold.  Spread  the  pieces  of 
pancake  on  a  big  dish  and  cover  each  of  them  with  some 
very  thinly  sliced  cooked  bacon ;  dot  over  the  bacon  the 
cooked  truffles,  on  the  centre  of  each  lay  a  good  table- 
spoonful  of  the  mince,  fold  the  pancakes  over,  fix  them 
with  white  of  egg,  bread-crumb,  and  bake  them  a  pale 
brown  on  a  well  buttered  dish.     Serve  upon  a  napkin. 

4. — This  is  an  effective  entree  : — Make  enough  of  the 

best  puff -paste  to  form  eight  or  nine 

Hare  patties,  fiuau-      pastry  cases  of  the  usual  patty  shape, 

ciere  rasnion.  i.  j  i        ./  r   » 

bake  them  in  the  oven,  and  put  them 

aside  when  done.     As  serving  time  approaches,  fill  each 

with  a  share  of  thoughtfully  composed  ragout  a  la  finan- 

ciere   (the  same  that   you  would  prepare  fur  a  vol-au-vent, 


394  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

only  a  little  more  minced)  of  hare,  heat  in  a  quick  oven 
for  a  minute  or  two,  and  serve. 

K.B. — Touching  ragouts  a  la  jinanciere  and  a  la  reine  : 
the  former  is  brown,  the  latter  white.  For  jinanciere  you 
must  therefore  use  Espagnole,  and  for  a  la  reine ^  bechamel. 
Oysters,  chicken,  rabbit,  tongue,  sweet-breads,  liver,  cocks- 
combs, truffles,  mushrooms,  and  game,  form  the  chief  com- 
ponent parts  of  the  plat.  Select  your  ingredients  ;  trim 
the  pieces  of  meat  into  small  collops,  and  gently  stew 
them ;  that  is,  heat  them  up  salmis  fashion,  in  either  the 
rich  brown,  or  the  delicate  white  sauce  I  have  named  ;  the 
meat  having  been  previously  dressed,  of  course,  requires 
no  cooking.  Bearing  these  general  rules  in  mind,  the 
ragouts  will  not  be  found  very  difficult. 

5. — Lard   tlic   fillet  carefully,   and  tie  it  up  into  a  con- 
venient shape  for  roasting.     Roast  it 

Frlncb'blns?'^  "''^      ^^'^^  ^  ^^'^^^  fi^^'  ^^^  when  Sufficiently 
done,  serve  it  with   some  minced  an- 
chovies  and  olives,    tossed  in  melted  butter,  poured  over 
it  at  the  last  moment. 

For  the  haricots  verts : — Remember  not  to  allow  your 
cook  to  cut  the  beans  into  the  vermicelli-like  strips  you 
see  so  frequently.  All  that  is  necessary  is  to  peel  off  the 
external  fibre  which  runs  round  the  outside  edge  of  the 
pod,  leaving  the  pods  so  peeled  intact.  Next  choose  a 
roomy,  two-pound  jam  jar,  or  any  vessel  that  you  can 
close  securely  ;  put  the  beans  into  it  with  a  table-spoonful 
of  good  butter,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Cover  the  vessel  tightly  and  steam  it 
for  an  hour  in  boiling  water.  When  done,  drain  the  bean 
pods,  and  serve  them  in  any  of  the  ways  mentioned  at 
page  138.  Steamed  in  this  way  the  French  bean  of  Indian 
growth  tastes  exactly  like  its  parent  as  eaten  in  France. 
You   will   never   boil   French    beans   asfain    after  cookinc' 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  395 

them   in    the   manner   I    have   described :  a  spoonful  of 
melted   maitre   d'hotel   butter,  or,   better  still,   a  coffee- 
cupful  of  poulette  sauce  is   an   improvement  just  before     o^ 
serving. 

6. — Roast   the   plovers    (the   grey  bird  will  do  for    this 

dish)  and  proceed  as  you  did  to  com- 
Plovers  iu  cases.  .  ^    .  ,         -i  •       •      -\t 

pose  the  salpicon  de  gibier  m  Menu 

No.  5,  fill  your  buttered  cases  with   pieces  of  the  plovers, 

and  pour  round,  and   over  them  your  thick  glaze.     Bake 

for  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  serve. 

7. — Prepare  a  puree  of  spinach  as  described  at  page  146, 
drain  it  very  dry,  and  then  moisten  it 
with  cream,  adding  a  very  little  nut- 
meg :  make  eight  houchees  (miniature  oyster  patty  shapes) 
of  puff  pastry,  fill  each  bouchee  with  spinach  puree,  give 
them  a  cap  of  buttered  egg  (page  235),  heat  up  in  the 
oven,  and  serve  on  a  napkin. 

8. — Make  enough  plain  clear  jelly,  flavoured  with  any 
nice  liqueur,  to  fill  a  pretty  border 
C  h  a  u  d-f  r  0 1  d  of  mould,  and  get  ready  a  mixed  collec- 
tion of  dessert  fruits, — a  few  of  each 
sort, — such  as  greengages,  apricots,  cherries,  strawberries, 
pears,  &c.,  cut  them  into  pieces,  and  garnish  the  mould  as  * 
tastefully  as  you  can.  When  the  garnish  has  set,  complete 
the  jelly  with  layers  of  the  remaining  fruit,  and  set  it  in 
ice.  For  the  centre,  to  imitate  a  savoury  cliaud-froid,  you 
must  make  a  breakfast-cupful  of  vanilla  blanc-manger, 
dipping  slices  of  preserved  apples  into  it  to  counterfeit 
fillets  of  chicken  masked  in  white  sauce ;  set  them  on  ice 
for  the  blanc-manger  to  congeal,  and  then  pack  the  centre 
of  the  jelly  with  them  ;  garnish  the  white  fillets  with 
slices  of  prunes  to  represent  truffles,  and  a  few  plain 
slices  of  apple  cut  with  fretted  edges  to  imitate  cocks- 
combs. 


306  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT. 

9. — For  this  effective  ice,  you  must  have  four  small  ice 

pails,  and  make  a  different  ice  in  each 

^^^Iced  pudaiug,  med-      ^^-j^   ^ -^   ._;^t^     j^  strawberry  cream 

(Menu  No.  3)  ;  No.  2,  crcme  depUtachc 
(^lenu  No.  2)  ;  No.  3,  parfait  an  chocolat  (Menu  No.  8)  ; 
and  No.  4,  vanilla  cream.  ^lake  half  a  pint  of  each  of 
these,  and  set  your  mould  in  the  ice  :  when  the  four  ices 
arc  well  frozen,  mix  them  at  hap-hazard  l)y  casting  Uirgc 
spoonfuls  of  them  one  after  the  otlier  into  the  mould  : — 
say,  first,  half  the  vanilhi,  then  a  (piarter  of  the  chocolate, 
then  half  the  strawberry,  followed  l)y  a  quarter  of  the 
pistachio,  .some  more  chocolate  and  vanilla,  and  so  on,  till 
full.  Work  the  spatula,  and  blend  the  colours  without 
any  fixed  pattern,  press  the  wliole  togetlier  firmly,  freeze 
thoroughly,  and  serve. 

To  adapt  this  mcnu^  serve  the  fillet  of  beef  after  the 
lisli,  and  send  up  the  plovers  nicely  roasted,  with  bread 
sauce,  crisp  potato  chips,  and  a  salad.  A  curl  i.t  ciisply 
fried  bacon  should  accompany  each  I)ird. 


To  make  a  vol-aii-veut  case. 

^lake  very  carefully  a  pound  of  puff-paste,  following  tlic 
directions  given  at  page  263.  Give  the  paste  six  turns, 
and  roll  it  out  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  out 
of  this  as  neatly  as  possible  an  oval  piece  the  size  you  wish 
your  vol-au-vent  to  be.  You  will  then  have  an  oval  piece 
of  pastry  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  :  turn  it  over 
upon  a  buttered  baking-sheet,  brush  the  surface  and  side 
with  a  beaten  c^g,  and  mark  out  the  interior  oval,  leaving 
an  inch  margin  all  round.  Let  the  knife  cut  this  tracing 
to  a  depth  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch.  Now  put  the  sheet  in 
the  oven,  and  when  the  paste  is  baked,  remove  the  inner 
oval   (for  a  cover)    which   you   will  find  has  risen .  then 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  EIGHT.  397 

scoop  out  the  uncooked  paste  inside  the  case  :  brush  the 
whole  case  thus  formed  with  egg  again,  and  bake  it  for 
about  five  minutes.  After  this  the  pastry  will  be  ready. 
Remember  that  in  the  first  baking,  the  oval  wall  will  have 
risen  three  or  four  inches  high. 


41 


nviEiNTXJ    isro.  ::?^i 


For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Potagc  Ji  la  creme  croi«,'-e. 

Orlys  de  sccr,  a  la  HoUandaisc 

Poulettc  a  la  St.  Lambert. 

Carre  de  mouton  farei. 

Becassines  rotics. 

Petits  pois  an  lard. 

Tartelcttcs  de  limon. 

Fromage,  hore  d'oeuvres 

Dessert. 

1. — Boil  half  a  pint  of  pearl  barley  in  a  quart  of  clear 
stock  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pulp  ;  pass 
it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  add  suffi- 
cient additional  stock  uncoloured,  and  very  well  flavoured, 
to  bring  the  puree  to  the  consistency  of  cream  ;  put  it  now 
in  a  sauce-pan  on  the  fire  till  it  comes  to  the  boil,  then  stir 
into  it  off  the  fire  the  yolk  of  an  egg  thoroughly  beaten  up 
with  a  gill  of  milk  (or  ci^am  if  yon  can  spare  it)  serve  with 
dice  of  bread,  dipped  in  stock,  and  crisped  in  the  oven. 
2. — Divide  a  cut  of  seer-fish  into  six  nice  collops  about 
two  inches  long,  half  an  inch  thick, 
Seer    fritters    ^vitll        ^^^^i  ^      j^       i  |  L^   ^j  "  mari- 

llullundaise  sutice. 

nadc"  in  a  little  lime  juice  or  vinegar, 

pepper,  salt,  onion,  and  ywcct  herbs.     Half  fry,  or  bake 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  399 

them,  and  let  them  get  cold.  Prepare  some  batter  as 
follows :— Beat  up  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  (save 
the  whites)  with  one  table-spoonful  of  brandy,  one  of 
salad  oil,  and  four  or  five  table-spoonfuls  of  water.  Amal- 
gamate with  this  three  table-spoonfuls  of  imported  flour, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  mixture  well  for  a  minute 
or  two,  and  bring  it  to  the  right  consistency  by  adding 
water,  or  flour,  as  the  case  may  require.  When  ready,  add, 
at  the  last  moment,  the  whites  you  saved,  whipped  to  a 
froth  :  dip  your  collops  into  this,  and  lay  them  one  by  one 
in  your  frying  basket,  dipping  it  immediately  into  a  deep 
saute-pan,  filled  with  boiling  fat ;  as  soon  as  they  turn  a 
nice  deep  yellow,  lift  them  out,  drain  them  on  a  sheet  of 
blotting  paper,  and  serve  them,  crisp  and  dry  on  a  napkin 
garnished  with  fried  parsley,  and  slices  of  lime.  Witli 
sauce-Hollandaise  in  a  boat.     (q.  v.  page  84.) 

3. — Take  two  nice  chickens,  cut  them  up  as  if  for  fri- 
cassee, steep  the  pieces  in  cold  water 
"    Chicken,  St.  Lam-      f^^.   j^^^jf  ^^^  j^^^    ^j^en   drain    them, 
bert  fasnxon.  '      ,  .  . 

and  select  the  following  pieces,  viz. : — 

the  four  wings,  the  four  legs,  two  breasts,  and  four  thighs, 
and  put  them  aside  covered  up.  Take  all  that  remains, 
viz.  : — the  backs,  pinions,  necks,  livers,  gizzards,  and 
trimmings,  and,  with  an  onion  cut  up,  some  pepper  corns, 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  meat  gravy,  a  bit  of  lime  peel,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ketchup,  and  salt,  make  as  good  a  pint  of 
broth  as  you  can;  when  ready,  fish  out  the  livers,  and 
strain  the  broth.  Now  put  into  the  stew-pan  the  selected 
joints  of  the  chickens,  cover  them  with  the  strained  broth, 
and  stew  them  gently  till  done,  with  one  carrot,  and  a 
handful  of  French  beans.  Now  pick  out  the  chicken, 
strain  the  broth,  and  put  the  vegetables  aside.  Proceed 
with  the  broth  to  make  a  nice  veloute  (rich  white  sauce) 
flavoured  with  a  dozen  sweet  almonds  pounded,  and  a 
blade  of  mace  ;  thicken  in  the  bain-marie  with  the  yolks 


400  MEXU  FOR  A  DIMNER  OF  SIX. 

of  three  eggs  :  when  satisfactory,  strain  and  put  in  the 
pieces  of  chicken,  heating  them  without  boiling.  Cut  the 
carrot,  and  French  beans,  with  the  livers  you  saved,  into 
dice,  and  when  you  dish  the  chicken,  garnish  your  entree 
with  thera.  A  casserole  of  mashed  potatoes,  shaped  like 
the  pastry  case  of  a  vol-au-vent,  and  nicely  ornamented, 
can  hold  the  chicken,  and  the  garnish  should  be  sprinkled 
over  the  surface. 

4. — Order  a  shoulder  of  the  best  mutton  you  can  gct^ 

bone  it  carefully,  wash  it,  dry  it,  and 

Shouiaer  of  mutton      flatten    it    out    upon    a    clean    board, 
stuffed.  ^ 

Dust   it  over    with    pepper    and  salt, 

and  lay  over  it  a  number  of  tliin  slices  of  cold  cooked 
bacon.  ^Make  a  good  bowl  of  turkey  stuffing  (page  109) 
and  spread  it  cvenl}-  over  the  bacon,  roll  the  meat  care- 
fully up,  and  secure  it  in  shape  with  tapes.  Put  four 
ounces  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  and  turn  the  roll  of 
mutton  over  in  it  till  it  takes  colour.  Now  pour  in  a  pint 
or  so  of  good  broth  made  from  the  bones  and  trimmings, 
with  two  Bombay  onions  cut  up,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  carrot 
sliced,  six  pepper  corns,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  good  piece 
of  celery,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  salt,  a  tumbler  of  chablis  or  sauteme,  and  half  a  glass 
of  brandy.  Braise  the  mutton  in  this  until  it  is  done. 
Dish  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  brown  its  surface  with  a  hot 
iron.  Strain  off  the  gi'avy,  remove  the  fat,  flavour  it  as 
for  game  with  half  a  glass  of  Madeira,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  red  currant  jelly,  the  juice  of  a  lime,  and  a  few  drops 
of  chilli  vinegar ;  let  it  boil  up,  pour  it  round  the  mutton, 
and  serve.  Garnish  the  dish  with  small  white  onions  (the 
size  used  for  pickling)  glazed,  and  send  round  jiotatoes  ^ 
la  maitre  d'lwtel. 

5. — Roast  the  birds  properly  over  a  bright  fire  (Rama- 


Koast  Biiipes. 


samy  will  bake  them  if  he  can,  or  fry 
them  in  a  frying-pan)  and  serve  them 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  401 

on  hot  buttered  toast,  smothered  with  crisply  fried  bread- 
crumbs. A  nice  salad,  butter,  and  Nepaul  pepper  should 
go  round. 

6. — Cook  the  peas  as  recommended  at  page  135,  cut  a 
thick  slice  of  bacon  into  small  dice, 

frie^dTacour'''    """^^      %  *^^^  *^^^  ^^^^  ^"^^  ^^T  and  crisp, 
mix  them  with  the  peas,  and  serve. 

7. — If  your  cook  can  make  really  nice  puff-pastry,  this 

simple  little  entremets  will  be  quite  fit 
Lemon  cheesecakeg.       «  ,  .  -n        ,  i 

lor  a  place  m  your  menu.     ±  or  the 

mixture,  proceed  as  follows  : — melt  four  ounces  of  butter 

in  an  enamelled  sauce-pan,  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  four 

eggs,  and  four  ounces  of  finely  pounded  loaf  sugar,  and 

when  dissolved,  the  juice  of  three  limes ;  mix  the  syrup 

well,  and  add  a  liqueur-glass  of  noyeau,  or  cura9oa.     Now 

line  eight  or  nine  round  patty  pans  with  puff-jDaste,  and 

fill  them  half  full  with  the  mixture,  leaving  room  for  it  to 

rise  in  the  baking  :  when  done,  dust  over  the  cheesecakes 

some  finely  pounded  loaf  sugar,  and  serve  them  upon  a 

napkin,  hot. 

♦ 

Salade  Russe. 

This  is  an  effective  dish  for  a  luncheon  party : — Boil 
some  carrots  and  some  turnips  in  salted  water  with  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  but  do  not  let  them  be  overdone ;  when 
cold,  cut  out  of  them,  with  a  vegetable  scoop,  a  number  of 
pieces  the  size  of  an  olive  ;  cut  some  beetroot  in  the  same 
way,  and  likewise  some  truffles.  Take  equal  parts — say  a 
cupful— of  each  of  the  above,  and  a  similar  quantity  of 
fresh  haricot  beans  ready  cooked,  and  of  asparagus  points 
prepared  in  the  same  way.  Two  table-spoonfuls  respec- 
tively of  capers,  of  French  pickled  gherkins  cut  into  the 
shape  of  capers,  and  of  anchovies,  perfectly  cleaned,  and 
cut  into  small  pieces  ;  a  couple  of  dozen  or  more  olives 
stoned,  one  table-spoonful  of  parsley  minced  fine,  and  one 


402 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 


of  shallot,  also  minced.  Mix  the  whole  lightly  together 
with  a  sauce,  made  with  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  oil,  vinegar, 
pepper,  and  salt,  (page  190.)  Ornament  with  hard-boiled 
eggs,  caviare,  prawns,  olives  farcies,  pickles,  truffles,  &c. 
Sweet  capsicums  are  a  nice  addition,  not  only  for  their 
flavoui',  but  on  account  of  their  brilliant  colour. 


2vlE3SrXJ      l^CD.      I^^XI. 


Prawn  puree. 


For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Puree  de  grandes-crevettes. 

Merlans  a  1'  Americaine. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  axi  puree  d'oseille. 

Gralantine  de  chapon  au  salade. 

Sarcelles  au  cresson. 

C^leri  au  beurre. 

Creme  d'abricot  a  la  Moscovite. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Make  a  strong  clear  consomme  with  beef,  bone, 
vegetables  and  herbs,  as  usual :  when 
done,  strain  it  into  a  bowl  to  be  ready 
when  wanted.  Pick  enough  cold  boiled  prawns  to  fill 
a  half-pint  pot  to  the  brim :  pound  these  in  a  mortar 
with  a  good  allowance  of  butter  till  you  get  them  to  a  pulp  : 
flavour  this  with  salt,  and  a  little  spiced  pepper  to  taste  : 
now  melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  incorpo- 
rate therewith  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  ;  mix  this  with  the 
prawn  pulp.  Next  take  about  the  same  quantity  of  bread- 
crumb well  soaked  in  stock  (the  consomme)  that  you  have 
of  prawn,  and  add  it  to  the  prawn  pulp  also,  off  the  flre, 
mixing  the  two  together  by  degrees  thoroughly,  and 
gradually  adding  the  consomme  till  you  find  you  have  a 
soup  a  little  less  thick  than  that  you  want  eventually  to 
get.     You  now   set  the  sauce-pan  on  the  fire,   and  stir 


404  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

vigorously  till  it  boils,  and  tliickeus  ;  take  it  off  the  fire 
then,  and  let  it  get  cool,  to  enable  you  to  remove  any  fat 
that  may  rise,  after  which  the  puree  should  be  pressed 
through  a  haii'  sieve  into  a  bowl.  When  wanted,  it  must, 
of  course,  be  re-heated,  and  served  with  dice  of  fried  bread. 
This  soup  is  well  worth  the  little  trouble  it  requires :  it 
is,  of  course,  a  relation  of  the  Usque  family.  A  coffee- 
cupful  of  boiling  cream,  or  of  milk  in  which  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  has  been  whipped,  may  be  added,  but  I  think  the 
puree  is  generally  rich  enough  without  that  assistance. 

Let  my  np-country  friends  follow  this  recipe,  using  a 
tin  of  lobster,  well  drained,  and  washed  :  their  efforts  will 
result  in  "  bisque  de  homanJ.''  In  this  case  the  coral  of  the 
lobster  gives  the  soup  a  rich  orange  colour.  The  Ameri- 
can canned  lobster,  prawns,  and  shrimps,  make  excellent 
bisques. 

2. — Cut  and  trim  tlircc  nice  wliitings  in  fillets,  brush 
tliem  over  with  egg,  and  bread-crumb 

AuK^riclu  uiy.'"  ^^'  ^^^^'^^  ^'''^^'  «ome  finely  sifted  white 
crumbs  ;  fry  them  a  golden  yellow  in 
boiling  fat,  drain,  and  serve  them  with  this  sauce  : — Melt 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter  in  a  small  sauce-pan,  stir  in  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  add  half  a  pint  of  warm  fish 
gravy,  let  it  thicken,  and  finish  it  with  the  juice  of  a  lime, 
a  little  salt,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  tabasco,  and 
a  heaped  up  dessert-spoonful  of  clioppcd  capsicums. 

3. — Choose  a  first  rate  neck  of  mutton,  divide  it  into  tho 
neatest  cutlets  you  can,  give  them  a 
so.'JefauncT"'-''"'"'  '!"«'  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  place 
them  cii  marinade  for  the  rest  of  the 
day.  For  the  sauce  you  want  one  iJombay  onion,  two 
handfuls  of  sorrel,  one  lettuce,  and  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  butter.  Take  a  light  sauce-pan,  melt  the  butter  at  tho 
bottom  of  it ;  throw  into  it  the  onion  very  finely  shredded, 
toss  this  about   till  it  tarns  a  pale  yellow,   and  then   add 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  405 

the  whole  of  the  sorrel  and  the  lettuce  also  finely  cut  up. 
Stir  the  vegetables  about  in  the  melted  butter  till  they 
begin  to  change  colour,  and  then  pour  into  the  sauce-pan 
about  half  a  pint  of  gravy  slightly  thickened  with  flour  ; 
stir  this  well,  and  put  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  white  sugar, 
three  salt-spoonfuls  of  salt,  and  a  good  dusting  of  black 
pepper.  Let  the  vegetables  boil  for  about  five  minutes, 
then,  if  you  find  the  sauce  too  thick,  or  as  cooks  say, 
"  stodgy,"  dilute  it  with  a  little  more  gravy,  till  it  assumes 
the  consistency  of  a  rich  puree,  ease  the  fire  and  let  the 
sorrel  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
it  will  be  ready  to  accompany  your  cutlets,  which  should 
be  drained  from  their  marinade,  dipped  in  melted  butter, 
and  grilled  over  a  bright  clear  fii^e.  Prepare  a  circle  of 
mashed  potato,  fill  it  with  the  puree  burning  hot,  and 
arrange  the  cutlets  round  the  outside  of  the  circle,  with 
bunches  of  water-cress  for  garnish. 

4. — A  really  tasty  cold  dish,  garnished  with  blocks  of 

broken  aspic  jelly,  the    whole   fresh 
Galantine  of  capon.        .  ,7-1  i  •    i, 

from  the  ice-box,  and  accompanied  by 

a  good   salad  is,  to  my  mind,  a  worthy  'piece  de  resistance 

for  a  little  dinner  party  at  Madras  in  the  sultry  month  of 

May.     A  galantine  too,  is  a  dish  that  is  well  adapted  for 

a  Neilgherry  picnic,  the  wedding  breakfast,  the  luncheon, 

or  supper,  so  let  us  discuss  the  following  recipe  : — 

Choose  a  very  fine  fowl,  capon,  or  hen-turkey  ;  purchase 
one  of  Crosse  and  Blackwell's  "  picnic  tongues"  (in  the 
round  tins)  and  proceed  as  follows  : — Having  cleaned  the 
bird,  and  having  carefully  saved  the  liver,  heart,  and 
gizzard,  lay  it  breast  downwards  on  a  board,  and  proceed 
to  bone  it  (Ramasamy  does  this  generally  very  cleverly) 
you  may  sever  the  pinions,  legs,  and  neck,  but  draw  the 
skin  carefully  over  the  places,  and  stew  them  up,  so  that 
the  outer  skin  may  be  as  whole  as  possible.  Cut  off  all 
the  meat  from  the  pinions  and  legs  (removing  the  sinew) 

42 


406  MENU  FOR  A  DIXXER  OF  SIX. 

and  flatten  the  carcass  before  you  with  a  cutlet  bat.  Make 
a  forcemeat  as  follows  : — five  ounces  stale  bread-crumb, 
five  ounces  minced  fat  bacon,  the  rind  of  a  lime  minced 
fine,  a  dessert-spoonful  each  of  thyme  and  marjoram,  some 
spiced  pepper,  and  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
all  bound  with  four  eggs  :  mix  this  as  previously  describ- 
ed, and  keep  it  by  your  side  in  a  basin.  Xow  turn  out  the 
"  picnic  tongue,"  straighten  it,  and  cut  a  solid  piece  of  the 
best  meaty  part  to  form  the  centre  of  your  galantine : 
it  should  be  nearly  as  long  as  the  carcass  of  the  fowl 
(leaving  room  for  folding  up)  and  nearly  the  full  thick- 
ness of  the  tongue  after  the  skin  has  been  peeled  off.  Slice 
up  the  remainder  of  the  tongue  ;  separating  fat  slices  from 
lean,  and  kecj)  them  on  a  dish  handy  ;  scraps  may  be 
minced  fine,  and  mixed  with  the  forcemeat.  To  make  the 
foundation  of  your  work  as  level  as  possible,  you  should 
trim  nearly  all  the  meat  of  the  carcass  of  the  fowl,  with  a 
very  sharp  knife,  almost  to  the  skin  ;  the  meat  that  is  thus 
detached  should  be  kept  with  that  of  the  wings  and  legs. 
Lastly,  mince  together  the  liver,  gizzard  and  heart,  and 
"  spice-pepper,"  and  mince  them  well. 

First,  spread  a  layer  of  the  stuffing  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  evenly  over  the  fowl,  upon  that  a  la3'cr  of  your  slices 
of  tongue  (spice-pepper  freely)  upon  that  a  layer  of  the 
meat  you  cut  from  the  fowl  (dust  of  salt)  over  that  a 
second  spread  of  forcemeat,  then  your  minced  liver,  &c., 
and  lastly,  the  block  of  tongue  :  fold  over  this  the  flatten- 
ed carcass,  disturbing  the  layers  as  little  as  possible,  and 
sew  the  galantine  up  securely  with  fine  twine.  Envelop 
this  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  tie  it  up  carefully  with  cross 
strings  to  preserve  the  oval  shape  of  the  galantine.  Set 
this  in  a  deep  stew-pan,  cover  it  well  with  weak  stock  in 
which  a  claret-glass  of  Madeira  has  been  introduced,  and 
simmer  gently  for  three  or  four  hours.  When  done,  lift 
it   out,   drain  it,   take  off  the   cloth,  wrap  it  in  a  fresh  dry 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  407 

one,  and  place  it  on  a  dish  with  a  heavy  weight  above  it. 
When  quite  cold,  take  out  your  galantine,  scrape  off  any 
fat  that  may  be  attached  to  the  skin,  glaze  it,  and  set  it 
in  the  ice-box,  finally  serving  it  garnished  with  broken 
lumps  of  aspic  jelly. 

A  galantine  to  be  cot-red  should,  of  course,  contain  a 
goodly  allowance  of  truffles  :  these  should  be  first  cooked 
in  butter  and  a  little  Madeira,  and  then  introduced  during 
the  packing  of  the  carcass,  according  to  the  artistic  skill 
of  the  chef,  in  fairly  large  pieces  ;  truffle  trimmings  should 
be  minced  fine  and  added  to  the  forcemeat.  Little  dice  of 
cornichons  are  effective  if  dotted  about  in  the  layer  of 
stuffing,  and  pistachio  nuts  are  an  improvement. 

5. — Let   the   teal  be   sent   up   most   carefully   roasted 

straight  from  the  fire  ;  garnish  each 

Roast  teal  with  portion  with  a  bunch  of  water-cress  ; 
water-cress.  ^ 

and  send  round  butter,  limes  cut  in 

quarters,  and  Nepaul  pepper. 

6. — This  is  a  very  simple,  yet  tasty  entremets  de  legume  : 

especially  to  be  recommended  at  Mad- 
Celery  with  butter.  .__..-  ^  ^ 

ras  where  JXeilgherry  celery  soon  loses 

its  nutty  crispness,  and  is  consequently  not  so  nice  to  eat 
raw.  Trim  four  heads  of  fine  white  celery  very  neatly, 
wash  them  carefully,  and  when  convinced  that  no  earth  re- 
mains hidden  in  the  leaves,  boil  them  in  salt  and  water, 
or  in  milk  if  you  can  afford  it.  When  tender,  drain,  split 
each  piece  in  half,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible  upon  a 
silver  dish  like  asparagus.  Butter  plainly  melted,  as  for 
"  Dutch  sauce,"  page  89,  should  alone  accompany  the 
vegetable  thus  delicately  dressed.  Please  do  not  spoil  it 
by  serving  it  with  a  '  conjee'  made  of  flour  and  milk, 
called  by  Ramasamy  "  white  sauce,"  or  with  sodden  toast 
beneath  it. 


408  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

7. — Now  here  we  have  a  very  recherche  sweet  dish.     The 

specialite  of  creams  a  la  Moscovite  con- 

Apvicot  cream  a  k       g^g^^^  ^^  ^^^jj.  i^^-        g^j^^    ^^  ^^^^Je  ^e^y 

Moscovite.  ®  ,  .     •' 

cold, — not  frozen  as   an  iced  pudding, 

but  so  long  buried   in  ice  as  to  be  almost  as  cold.     The 

cream  is  easy  enough.      Pass  a  pot  of  apricot  jam  through 

a  fine  sieve.     Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  ;  mix  into  it 

when  cool  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and  make  a  rich  custard. 

Stir  into  the  custard  when  cool,  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 

dissolved  gelatine,   and  then  the   strained  jam.      If  not 

sweet  enough,  you   must  now  add  a  little  sugar.     Set  the 

liquid  in  a  mould  upon  ice,  and  when  you  perceive  that  it 

is  beginning  to  congeal,  add  half  a  pint  of  whipped  cream, 

and  a  glass   of  noyeau.     Stir  the  contents   of   the   mould 

together,  and   then  bury  it   in  ice   for  at   least   two  hours. 

Serve  as  cold  as  possible. 


Pickled  steak,  or  chops. 

Place  a  steak  in  a  deep  dish  with  a  couple  of  onions 
sliced,  a  clove  of  garlic,  pepper  corns,  salt,  some  leaves  of 
th3'me,  and  marjoram,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  some  lime 
peel.  Add  oil  and  vinegar  (two  table-spoonfuls  of  former 
to  one  of  latter)  sufficient  to  soak  the  meat  well  without 
actually  covering  it.  Let  it  soak  all  day ;  lift  it,  when 
wanted,  from  the  mariJiadey  and  fry  lightly  in  butter: 
then  (when  coloured  on  both  sides  nicely)  pour  in  the 
rnariJiade,  with  a  breakfast-cup  of  made-gravy,  and  stew 
the  steak  gently  till  thoroughly  done. — Strain  the  liquor, 
free  it  from  fat,  reduce  it  a  little  over  the  fire,  pour  over 
the  steak,  and  serve.  This  is  just  as  good  with  a  nice 
mutton  steak,  or  a  few  juicy  chops. 


:ivEE3srxj   UNTO,    i^^iii. 

— ♦ — 

For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Potage  a  la  Gladstone. 

Merlans  aux  fines  herbes. 

Tourne-dos  de  boeiif  a  la  Wyvern, 

Poulet  a  rAmericaine- Sauce  aux  huitres. 

Rognons  au  surprise. 

Ramequins  en  caisses. 

Croutes  d'ananas. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — This,  I  need  scarcely  say,   is  "oxtail  soup  !"  Buy  a 

^  ,  .,  .  ,      ,       shin  and  a  half  of  beef,  and  make  the 

Oxtail  so\ip,  (cleav).       ,      ,  ,  , 

best  gravy  you  can  as  usual :  take  an 

oxtail,  and  when  the  shin  consomme  is  ready  early  in  the 
afternoon,  (you  should  commence  boiling  the  shin  as  soon 
as  you  can)  separate  the  tail  at  the  joints,  and  throw  the 
pieces  into  your  stock  pot  with  two  Bombay  onions,  two 
carrots,  a  stick  of  celery,  and  a  muslin  bag  containing 
sweet  herbs,  parsley,  a  dozen  pepper  corns,  and  a  clove 
of  garlic  ;  add  a  wine-glass  of  mushroom  ketchup,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  caramel,  and  simmer  the  soup  for  a  couple  of 
hours  skimming  it  carefully.  If  wanted  clear,  all  that  is 
now  needed  is  to  strain  and  clarify  the  liquor,  saving  a 
few  joints  of  the  tail  as  a  garnish,  a  table-spoonful  of 
Madeira  with  a  squeeze  of  a  lime,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar 
being  added  to  finish  with. 


410  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

If  however  you  desire  to  serve  a  thick  oxtail,  go  on  in 

,  , .  , ,       the   followinp'    manner  : — Strain    the 

Oxtail  soup,  (thick).  •  n    .1        ,    -i     •    •    ^  j 

soup,  saving  all  the  tail  joints,  and 

leave  it  in  a  bowl  for  a  while.  Pick  all  the  meat  from 
the  tail,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  pass  the  paste  through  the 
sieve,  and  then  skim  the  fat  off  the  bowl  of  soup.  Take  a 
roomy  sauce-pan,  melt  an  ounce  of  butter  at  the  bottom 
of  it,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  gradually  add 
soup  and  paste  till  all  has  been  expended,  let  the  puree 
come  to  the  boil  (by  which  time  it  will  be  thick  enough)  ; 
add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  anchovy  vinegar,  and  a  glass  of  Madeira,  stir  vigorously 
for  a  minute  and  serve.  The  common  way  of  making  this 
soup  is  simply  to  thicken  the  gravy,  and  to  throw  in  the 
joints  of  the  tail  whole.  I  have  tried  ih.e  puree,  and  con- 
sider the  soup  is  vastly  improved  by  the  pounded  meat, 
the  flavour  of  the  oxtail  being  far  stronger. 

2. — "Bake  the  whitings  very  gently,  and  serve  them  with 
a  sauce  hlanche  in  which  a  bunch  of 
herls^Luce.^  '"''''  parsley,  minced  fine,  a  very  little  shal- 
lot, a  little  marjoram,  some  garden 
cress,  and  a  little  green  chilli  (if  liked)  have  been  mixed. 
If  fresh  mushrooms  happen  to  be  available,  you  can  make 
true  fines  herbes  as  follows  : — equal  portions  (say  a  table- 
spoonful)  of  chopped  mushroom  and  parsley,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  shallot. 

3. — Cut  and  trim  a  nice  undercut  of  beef  in  slices  as 
for  grenadins :  steep  them  all  day  en 
WyverT';face°^  ^''^'  ^narinade,  drain,  and  either  grill,  or  fry 
them  very  carefully  in  clarified  drip- 
ping ;  drain  again,  and  serve  in  a  circle  round  a  ring  of 
mashed  potato,  with  a  heart-shaped  crouton  of  fried  bread 
between  each  slice  of  meat.  The  sauce  should  be  com- 
posed as  follows  : — Melt  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  small 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  41 1 

sauce-pan,  mix  into  it  half  an  ounce  of  flour ;  stir  in,  when 
the  butter  and  flour  have  amalgamated,  a  breakfast-cup- 
ful of  beef  gravj,  half  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  tea- spoonful  of 
caramel,  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  one  of 
Harvey,  and  one  and  a  half  of  Anchovy  sauce.  Stir  well, 
and  pour  piping  hot  into  the  centre  of  the  potato  ring. 

4. — This  is  a  capital  method  of  cooking  a  fowl,  the  pro- 
cess is  simply  that  of  steaming,  so  you 
cau  mauner.  ^  ^^^^'  ^^^  want  your  fish  kettle,  and  a  pan, 
big  enough  to  hold  the  fowl,  with  a 
close  fitting  lid.  Truss  the  fowl :  place  a  big  Bombay 
onion  inside  the  bird,  with  a  couple  of  slices  of  bacon ; 
sew  up  the  vent,  pin  a  strip  of  bacon  over  the  breast,  and 
set  the  bird  in  the  pan  (without  any  water  or  gravy  round 
it)  carefully  securing  the  lid  with  paste  if  necessary. 
Immerse  the  vessel  containing  the  fowl  in  the  fish  kettle 
or  any  larger  pan  full  of  cold  water,  and  set  it  to  boil. 
Cook  it  slowly  for  upwards  of  an  hour  without  removing 
the  lid  which  should  be  scrupulously  kept  closed.  In 
about  an  hour  and  a  quarter  (after  the  water  came  to  the 
boil),  you  can  take  the  fowl  out,  and  place  it  at  once  on  a 
hot  dish  well  covered  up.  !N'ow  strain  off  the  gravy  that 
you  will  find  has  been  drawn  from  the  fowl,  and  save  it 
for  the  "  oyster  sauce,"  which  make  in  this  way  as  fast  as 
you  can : — 

Mix  an  ounce  of  butter  with  an  ounce  of  flour  at  the 
bottom  of  a  sauce-pan,   add  the  fowl 
ys  er  sau    .  gravy,  the  liquor  from  a  tin  of  oysters, 

and  the  beards  of  the  oysters  cut  off  :  (save  the  oysters 
themselves  separately)  throw  in  some  pepper  corns,  the 
peel  of  a  lime,  salt  to  taste,  and,  as  the  mixture  boils, 
a  table-spoonful  of  Harvey  sauce  :  after  it  has  come  to  the 
boil,  strain  the  sauce  carefully,  add  the  oysters  you  saved, 
heat  it  up  again  :  take  it  off  the  fire  :  pour  in  a   coffee- 


412  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

cupful  of  boiling  cream  (or  milk  in  wliicli  the  yolk  of  an  » 
egg  has  been  stii'red,  and  heated  up  to  the  consistency  of 
thin  custard)  and  serve  poui^ed  over  the  fowl.  Whilst  this 
sauce  is  being  made,  it  would  be  wise  perhaps  to  leave  the 
fowl  in  the  vessel  in  which  it  was  cooked,  carefully  cover- 
ed up  and  kept  in  the  hot  water  bath.  As  soon  as  the 
sauce  is  ready,  it  can  be  dished  up,  upon  a  cradle  of  well 
boiled  maccaroni. 

5. — This  is  a  dish  of  "  Bombay  onions  stuffed  with 
kidneys,"  a  most  excellent  savoury 
kiSfej^r  ^^"^^'^  '''^^  ^''iremets  if  carefully  done.  Take  six 
large  Bombay  onions  :  have  ready  ten 
sheep's  kidneys,  scalded,  and  skinned,  but  uncooked.  Boil 
the  onions  till  three  parts  done ;  take  them  out,  drain 
them ;  slice  off  the  top  of  each  one  (as  you  would  treat  an 
egg)  and  carefull}-  remove  the  inside,  leaving  a  hollow  big 
enough  to  hold  two  small  kidneys  cut  into  eight  pieces  ; 
take  two  anchovies,  pick  out  their  spines  and  cut  the  fish 
into  little  squares  :  have  some  minced  parsley  handy,  a 
lime,  and  some  of  the  inside  of  the  onion  that  you  scooped 
out,  minced  and  peppered  ;  put  a  lump  of  butter  into  the 
onion  case  first,  then  a  little  of  the  minced  onion  peppered, 
then  your  pieces  of  kidney,  with  little  bits  of  anchovy  here 
and  there,  and  crown  the  top  again  with  minced  onion, 
and  a  pat  of  butter  :  a  drop  or  so  of  lime  juice  should  be 
given  during  the  packing,  and  an  occasional  dust  of  spiced 
pepper.  Now  place  the  cap  on  again,  and  when  the  six 
onions  are  stuffed,  lay  them  in  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  an  hour.  "When  done,  pour 
a  brown  sauce  (separately  made)  over  them  and  serve  in 
their  own  dish. 

6. — A   recipe   for  these   toothsome   little  fondues   will 

be   found    at   page    249.     Serve   the 
Fondues  of  cheese  ,    ,,  .        tit 

iu  paper  cases.  moment  they  rise,  dished  upon  a  nap- 

kin. 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  4-13 

7. — When  pine-apples  are  in  season,  pray  try  this  dish, 

^.  ,    ^      ,  Cut  np  the  pine  in  slices  a  quarter  of 

rine-apple  toasts.  .  ^  ^ 

an  inch  thick,  stew  them  in  thin  syrup, 

with  a  glass  of  rum,  and  keep  them  simmering  en  hain- 

marie. 

Take  a  Madeira  cake  of  a  circular  shape  eight  inches  in 
diameter,  cut  it  into  nice  slices  the  same  shape  as  those 
you  cut  of  pine-apple,  lightly  fry  them  in  butter,  then  dust 
them  over  with  powdered  sugar  and  set  them  in  the  oven, 
spreading  a  layer  of  apricot  jam  over  each  slice.  At  the 
time  of  serving,  drain  the  pine-apple  slices,  and  arrange 
them  with  the  slices  of  cake  alternately  upon  a  very  hot 
dish,  pouring  the  syrup  over  them. 

This  receipt  can  be  followed  exactly  with  American 
canned  pine-apple  slices.  If  the  taste  of  rum  be  objected 
to,  try  brandy  or  any  nice  liqueur. 


To  make  potato  flour  for  souffles- 

Here  is  a  recipe  for  potato  flour  which  I  do  not  think 
you  will  find  in  any  cookery  book.  "  The  farina  of  the 
potato,  properly  granulated  and  dried,  is  frequently  sold 
as  a  substitute  for  arrowroot,"  says  an  authority  of  note  ; 
"  it  may  easily  be  prepared  at  home,  and  will  be  found 
useful  for  making  puddings  easy  of  digestion  for  children 
and  invalids."  If  kept  dry,  this  flour  keeps  well  for  a 
long  time.  Choose  some  potatoes  of  a  good  mealy  kind, 
peel  and  wash  them  (raw),  and  grate  them  to  pulp  with  a 
strong  bread  grater,  emptying  the  grated  stuff  into  a  large 
bowl  of  clean  spring  water  :  stir  the  potato  and  water  to- 
gether briskly  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  let  the  former 
settle ;  after  resting  ten  minutes,  strain  off  the  water : 
repeat  the  process  with  another  basinful  of  water,  and  let 
it  rest   after   stirring  for  ten  minutes,  again   straining  off 

43 


414  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

the  water;  and  continue  the  washings,  so  to  speak,  until 
the  water  remains  quite  clear  after  the  sediment  has  set- 
tled at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl :  about  three  changes  of 
water  generally  suffice  for  this.  When  satisfied  that  the 
grated  potato  has  been  thoroughly  cleansed,  take  it  out  of 
the  bowl,  drain  it,  and  spread  it  out  upon  dishes  to  dry 
and  bleach  in  the  sun,  turning  it  frequently.  When  quite 
dry,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and  pass  the  flour  so  obtained 
througli  a  silk  or  hair  sieve.  Bottle  it  securely  in  dry 
bottles,  and  cork  it  down  tightly.  It  will  be  white  and 
quite  flavourless. 


@M^lfilSi^fe5§) 


iviEJNrxj    nxro.    z^<Lx-\r, 


For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Consomme  de  perdreaux. 

Matelote  d'anguilles. 

Poulet  a  la  Yilleroy. 

Loiige  de  mouton  a  la  soiibise, 

Topinambours  au  gratin. 

Canapes  de  caviare. 

''  Pudding"  a  1'  Orleans. 

Fromage,  hers  d'oeuyres. 

Dessert. 

1 . — Buy  three  partridges  in  addition  to  your  customary 

soup  meat :  pluck  the  birds,  draw  them, 

Clear  partridge  soup.  -i        .  x i,  i,        i  •  n  t,  £ 

and  cut  them  up,  breakmg  all  bones  oi 

any  size  with  a  mallet.  Set  the  soup  meat  for  consomme 
as  usual,  and  when  you  have  obtained  as  strong  a  stock  as 
possible  therefrom,  strain  it,  and  let  it  get  cool ;  remove 
all  fat  that  may  rise  to  the  surface,  and  when  quite  clear, 
pour  it  into  a  large  sauce-pan,  adding  all  the  pieces  of  part- 
ridge, including  the  livers  of  the  birds,  &c. ;  set  this  on  the 
fire  to  come  slowly  to  the  boil,  skimming  it  very  carefully  ; 
after  it  has  boiled,  slack  off  the  fire,  and  let  the  contents 
of  your  sauce-pan  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more. 
Now  strain  the  soup  from  the  bones,  clarify  (it  should  be 
a  nice,  bright,  clear  consomme  remember)  and  give  it  half 
a  glass  of  Madeira,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of 
chilli  vineofar  to  finish  with. 


416  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

Some  people  serve  pieces  of  the  birds'  breasts  with  the 
soup,  or  quenelles  made  of  that  meat,  seasoned,  and  formed 
about  the  size  of  olives. 

2. — Skin  a  couple  of  eels,  clean,  parboil,  and  divide  them 

into  two  inch  fillets  for  stewing.  Put 
Stewed  eels.  .  ex,, 

into  your  stew-pan  two  ounces  or  but- 
ter, with  a  Bombay  onion  sliced  ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  five 
minutes,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  claret,  and  half  a  pint  of 
stock,  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  carrot  cut  up,  and  a  bag  of 
sweet  herbs  :  boil  this  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  it  well 
with  your  wooden  spoon ;  now  throw  in  a  salt-spoonful  of 
salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  spiced  pepper,  the  rind  of  a  lime,  and 
place  the  pieces  of  eel  in  the  midst.  Simmer  this  for  half 
an  hour.  Arrange  the  pieces  of  the  fish  upon  the  hot  dish, 
strain  the  gravy  rapidly,  thicken  it,  re-heat  it  almost  to 
boiling  point,  add  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a  table-spoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  and  pour  it  round  the  fish. 

3. — Cut  u])  and  cook  a  couple  of  nice  chickens  as  ex- 
plained for  'poulet  a  la  St.  Lambert. 
^^Chicken  a  la  YiUe-  ^f^^,^,  ^|^g  pieces  of  chicken  have  been 
stewed  in  their  own  broth,  drain  them, 
and  make  a  rich  veloute  with  the  latter,  thickening  it  with 
yolks  of  egg  like  custard.  Dip  the  pieces  of  chicken  in 
the  thick  sauce,  and  let  them  get  cold ;  then  bread-crumb 
them,  and  fry  them  a  golden  yellow  in  boiling  fat.  Drain 
them,  and  pile  them  on  a  napkin,  garnished  with  small 
potato  duchesses,  and  fried  parsley.  Send  the  rest  of  the 
sauce  round  in  a  boat  after  adding  to  it  a  heaped-up  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  mushrooms. 

4. — Roast  the  loin  to  a  tura,  serve  it  with  potatoes  cook- 
ed in  your  favoui'ite  manner,  red  cur- 

ouioTsau";:"""""'  '-^"t  .i«"y.  and  a  p,.ree  of  Bombay 
onions  which  should  go  round  in  a 
boat. 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  417 

For  onion  'puree  a  la  Soubise,  you  must  simmer  three 
onions  in  sufficient  stock  or  milk  to  cover  them  till  tender, 
mash  them,  and  pass  them,  through  the  sieve  ;  work  into 
the  pulp  that  you  then  get,  a  coffee-cupful  of  cream,  or 
milk  enriched  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  with  a  little 
gravy  ;  flavour  with  a  little  pepper,  and  salt,  heat  it  up 
as  hot  as  possible,  and  serve.  Its  consistency  ought  to  be 
that  of  thick  custard  ;  no  flour  please.  If  the  onions  be 
jDcrmitted  to  brown,  and  the  puree  be  served  of  that  color, 
the  sauce  is  called  a  la  Bretonne. 

5. — The  Jerusalem  artichoke  is  one  of  the  most  useful 

vegetables  we  get.     This   is  a   very 

Jerusalem    aiti-       simple,   yet   tasty   dish   of   them  ;   its 
chokes   baked  with  .  •      ,       •  7 

ct^eese.  correct  name  is  topiiiambours  au  gra- 

tin  : — Boil  the  artichokes  till  quite 
tender,  then  mash  them  with  a  silver  fork,  moistening 
them  with  cream,  (or  milk  with  the  yolk  of  an  Qgg),  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  place  the  artichoke  in  a  buttered 
pie-dish,  or  in  buttered  coquilles,  give  the  surface  a  layer 
of  grated  cheese,  and  bake  till  it  takes  colour.  Let  the 
vegetable  rest  upon  its  own  merits  for  flavour  :  you  do  not 
want  spices,  or  sauces :  the  cream  is,  of  course,  a  grand 
adjunct,  and  the  cheese  harmonizes  pleasantly  with  the 
general  tone  of  the  composition. 

6. — Prepare  six  or   eight  neatly  shaped   slices  of  fried 

^    ,       ,  bread.     Take  from  a  tin  of  caviare 

Cavia.re  toasts.  t       •  .     -, 

enough  roe  to  cover  each  piece  nicely. 

Choose  a  small   sauce-pan,   melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  it, 

stir  in  the  caviare,   dust  it  well  with  Nepaul  pepper,  and 

add  the  juice  of  a  lime.     When  piping  hot,   spread  the 

caviare  over  the  fried  bread  (which  should  have  been  kept 

in  the  oven)  and  send  up  the  canapes  without  delay. 

Or, — spread  the  caviare  cold  over  the  cold  fried  bread, 

mask  the  surface  with  thick  mayonnaise  sauce,  and  garnish 

with  a  turned  olive  upon  each.     Many  prefer  this  method. 


418  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

7. — Steep   an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  cold  water.     Make  a 

rich  custard  with  ten  yolks   of  esf^s, 
Orleans  puddiug.  .,  i  p  ^      e        ^ 

three-quarters  oi  a  pound  or   sugar, 

and  a  quart  of  boiled  milk.  Add  the  gelatine  to  the 
custard  while  the  latter  is  hot,  and  stir  it  until  it  is  dis- 
solved ;  then  strain  it  into  a  bowl.  Cut  up  one  ounce  of 
candied  orange  peel,  one  ounce  of  citron,  one  ounce  of 
raisins,  and  one  ounce  of  currants,  wash  them  well,  dry 
them,  and  then  toss  the  minced  confitures  in  a  frying-pan 
with  a  small  tumbler  of  rum  :  as  soon  as  the  rum  is 
absorbed,  stop  and  take  the  pan  off  the  fire.  Put  a  mould 
upon  ice,  pour  a  layer  of  custard  into  it  first  with  some  of 
the  minced  fruit ;  when  set,  put  a  layer  of  crushed  ratafias, 
then  another  layer  of  custard  with  fruit,  again  crushed 
ratafias,  and  so  on  till  the  mould  is  filled,  cover  it  in  ice 
and  let  it  rest  for  an  hour,  then  turn  it  out  and  serve. 

If  cream  be  used  instead  of  milk  for  the  custard,  a 
richer  result  may  be  obtained  ;  a  good  pudding  is  never- 
theless to  be  made  with  milk. 


Genoises  au  chocolat 

Genoise  Pastry. — Take  |lb.  of  the  freshest  butter,  put 
it  in  a  bowl,  and  warm  it  until  it  can  be  beaten  with  a 
spoon,  add  to  it  4  oz,  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  beat  the 
two  together  until  a  smooth  white  cream  is  obtained,  then 
add  one  egg,  and  keep  on  beating  the  mixture  till  it  is 
smooth  again,  then  add  three  more  eggs  in  the  same 
manner.  The  germ  of  the  eggs  should  be  removed. 
Lastly,  incorporate  quickly  \Vo.  of  fine  flour  with  the 
mixture,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  smooth,  pour  it  out  to  the 
thickness  of  Jin.  on  a  buttered  flat  tin,  which  must  be  put 
into  the  oven  at  once.  When  done  (in  about  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes),  turn  out  the  slab  of  Genoise,  and  put  it 
to  cool,  underside  uppermost,  on  a  sieve.     There  is  some 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  419 

knack  needed  in  beating  this  paste  to  prevent  its  curdling. 
Should  this  happen,  it  can  be  remedied  by  beating  as 
quickly  as  possible  until  the  mixtui^e  is  smooth  again. 
Take  a  slab  of  Genoise,  spread  on  the  top  of  it  the  thinnest 
possible  coating  of  apricot  jam,  then  a  coating  of  chocolate 
icing.  Put  it  into  a  very  hot  oven  for  rather  less  than  a 
minute,  take  it  out,  and  place  it  in  a  cold  place  to  get  cool. 
Then  cut  it  up   with  a  sharp  knife  in  any  shapes  you  like. 

Chocolate  Icing. — Put  into  a  sauce-pan  Jib.  of  powder- 
ed loaf  sugar,  2  oz.  of  grated  chocolate,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
vanilla  essence,  and  about  a  gill  of  water ;  stir  on  the  fire 
until  the  mixture  assumes  the  consistence  of  a  thick 
smooth  cream. 


The  following  recipe  I  have  to  acknowledge  with  thanks 
from  "  Bahut  Bursina": — 

"  Beignets  d'Avenches. — Take  a  new  loaf  and  cut  it 
into  slices  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Trim  off  all 
crust,  cut  into  convenient  slices,  marinade  in  milk,  or  in 
cream  if  available,  flavoured  with  your  favourite  essence. 
Take  up  the  slices,  drain  them,  and  fry  them  in  a  deep 
bath  of  boiling  fat,  or  butter,  till  a  golden  yellow  :  spread 
apricot  or  any  nice  preserve  over  them,  and  serve  hot." 

It  would  be  better  perhaps  to  call  the  dish  croutes  a 
VAvenches,  as  by  the  word  heignet  we  generally  under- 
stand that  the  thing  to  be  fried  is  dipped  in  batter. 


j^'iEiixrxj    isro.    z>c^v^. 


For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Potage  de  lievrc. 

Merlans  au  sauce  piquantc. 

Croquettes  de  volaille,  aux  points  d'asperges. 

Fi'icandcau  de  bceuf . 

Ballotines  de  cailles. 

Kpinards  a  la  '  Wjvern.' 

"  Tipsy  pudding." 
Fromage,  hors  d'cruvres. 
Dessert. 
Cafe  noir. 
1. — Skin,  clean,  and  thoroughly  wash  the  hare,  saving 
all  the  blood  you  can  in  a  cup :   cut  it 
up  into  small  pieces,  and  put  them  into 
a  stew-pan  with  half  pound  of  butter,  a  sliced  onion,  and  a 
muslin  bagful  of  herbs ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fry  the  meat  over  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes.     Make  a 
roux  (brown  thickening)  in  another  stew-pan,  with  a  pat 
of  butter,  and  a  table  spoonful  of  floui' :  moisten  this  with 
a  quart  and  a  half  of  beef  consomme  made  as  usual  from  the 
shin,  and  add  four  glasses  of  portwine,  or  claret.     When 
well  incorporated,  pom-  this  into  the  pan  containing  the 
pieces  of  hare,  and  let  them  stew  in  it  very  slowly  till 
thoroughly  done.     Now  drain  off  the  liquor  from  the  bones, 
Arc,  put   the  neatest  pieces  of  the  hare  on  one  side  for 
eventual  serving  with  the  soup,  and  set  them  in  the  hairi' 


Hare  soup. 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX,  421 


viarie-psm  to  keep  warm.  Next  return  the  liquor  in  wliicli 
tlie  hare  was  cooked  to  the  stew-pan,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and 
let  it  throw  up  all  grease,  &c.,  in  the  form  of  scum,  which 
skim  off  carefully.  Now  take  a  small  sauce-pan,  and  mix 
therein  the  blood  jou  saved,  and  some  of  the  soup  from  the 
st€w-pan :  thoroughly  amalgamate  these  (in  the  hain- 
viarie),  and  add  the  mixture  slowly  through  the  pointed 
tin  strainer,  to  the  gradually  re-heating  soup.  Let  it  come 
nearly  to  the  boil,  and  then  serve  it  over  the  pieces  of  hare 
you  preserved.  This  is  Gouife's  receipt  simplified.  There 
are  other  waj's  of  making  hare  soup  especially  that  called 
'potaye  a  la  puree  de  lievre,  which  are  always  popular.  The 
puree  is,  of  course,  assisted  with  pounded  meat,  red  currant 
jelly,  lime  juice,  and  plenty  of  port  wine. 

2. — Divide  three  nice  whitings   in  fillets.     Dip  them  in 
hatter   (according  to  my  old  receijJt) 
Fried  whitings  sharp       ^^^^  f       ^-^^^  ^  ^^,-       golden  yellow  in 
sauce.  "^  .  . 

a  bath   of   boiling    fat.     Drain   them 

and  serve  with  the  following  sauce  in  a  boat, — fry  a 
Bombay  onion  finely  minced,  with  one  clove  of  garlic  also 
minced,  in  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  sauce-pan  ;  when 
turning  brown,  put  in  a  table-spoonful  of  choppexi  parsley, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  coffee-cupful  of  vinegar,  and  a 
pint  of  beef  gravy.  A  tea-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly 
may  next  be  stirred  in,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup.  As  soon  as  the  mixture  becomes  nicely  flavoured, 
and  the  juices  of  the  various  ingredients  appear  to  be 
extracted,  strain  off  the  sauce.  Now  cut  up  a  ta.ble-spoon- 
ful  of  minced  cornichons,  add  the  mince  to  the  strained 
gravy,  heat  it  up  to  concert  pitch,  and  send  it  round  with 
your  fried  fish  in  a  boat. 

3. — Proceed  with    a  nice   sized    chicken   or   small  fowl 
as  though    you  were  going  to  make 

,vi?u!iXg-S,iut!      <J»f"<^«^''.  viz.  :-Lightly  roa.t  it.    Cut 
oft'  the  best  meat,  and  put  it  aside, 
44 


422  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

Save  all  bones,  skin  and  scraps,  and  make  a  nice  clear 
white  broth  with  them.  Take  of  the  fowl  meat  two  parts, 
of  cold  boiled  tongue  ane  part,  and  of  trnffles  one  part. 
Mince  all  very  finely  and  mix  them  together.  Melt  au 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  into  it  a  table-spoonful 
of  flom-,  moisten  it  with  some  stock,  and  then  add  the 
mince  :  flavour  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  powdered 
thyme  to  taste,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  three  or  four 
minutes  :  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  add  two  eggs  beaten  up 
with  the  juice  of  a  lime  and  stiTiined.  Spread  the  mince 
out  upon  a  large  dish  (it  should  be  pretty  ^tiff)  and  let  it 
get  cold.  Now  divide  it  into  six  or  eight  egg-shaped 
croquettes,  introduce  in  the  centre  of  each  a  piece  of  truflBe 
the  size  of  a  shilling,  bread-crumb  them  and  fiy  them  a 
very  light  gold  colour.  Prepare  a  circle  of  mashed  potato, 
place  it  neatly  in  the  dish  you  intend  for  your  entree,  dis- 
pose the  croquettes  carefully  round  it,  and  between  every 
croquette  put  a  ci-ispy  fried  curl  of  bacon,  while  a  slice  of 
truffle  may  repose  upon  each  of  them. 

For  the  "  asparagus  points,"  you  must  cut  off  the  green 
ends  of  the  stalks  of  a  tin  of  asparagus.  Heat  them 
gently  up  in  veloute,  made  with  the  chicken  broth  you 
drew  from  the  scraps,  slightly  flavoured  with  almond,  and 
enriched  with  a  good  spoonful  of  cream  ;  give  them  a  few 
drops  of  anchovy  vinegar,  and  pour  them  into  the  middle 
of  your  potato  circle, 

*i. — A  fricandeau  ought,  I  believe,  to  be  reserved  for  a 

^  .      ,         „ ,     ,        fillet  of  veal  only,  but  I  am  bold  enough 
Fricandeau  of  beef.  ^  ° 

to  suggest  youi'  trying  one  with  beef, 

thus  : — Get  tico  undercuts  of  the  sirloin,  if  one  be  too  small, 
trim  them  into  a  neat  shape,  and  attach  them  together  by 
two  good  skewers.  Lard  them  freely  with  fat  bacon.  If 
you  cannot  lard,  having  no  needle,  you  must  introduce  a 
slice  of  bacon  into  each  fillet  by  making  therein  a  longi- 
tudinal incision  j  slip  into  it  your  slice  of  bacon,  and  pin 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  423 

the  lips  o£  the  incised  meat  together  with  a  small  skewer. 
The  fricandeau  is  now  ready  for  the  stew-pan,  into  which 
please  put  the  trimmings  of  the  meat,  two  ounces  of  carrot 
sliced,  two  ounces  of  onion  sliced,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch 
of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper  : — place  your  fillets  upon 
the  vegetables,  and  pour  into  the  pan  half  a  pint  of  good 
gravy ;  l^t  this  cook  up  to  boiling  point,  and  keep  it  on  the 
fire  till  the  broth  has  somewhat  reduced  and  thickened : 
then  add  a  pint  more  gravy,  and  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour 
with  the  pan  half  covered.  Now  close  your  pan  :  put  some 
live  charcoal  on  the  lid,  which  lift  «very  five  minutes  or  so 
to  admit  of  your  basting  the  meat  under  it.  Continue  this 
until  you  have  glazed  the  fricandeau^  then  take  it  out, 
and  dish  it  on  a  very  hot  dish.  Quickly,  strain  the  gravy 
from  the  stew-pan,  skim  off  any  grease  there  may  be,  pour 
it  over  the  meat,  and  serve.  Let  a  puree  of  sorrel,  vide 
Menu  No.  XII,  accompany  the  fricandeau^  potatoes  a 
r  Americaine,  and  petit  pois  verts. 

5. — A  quail  for  each  guest.  These  should  be  boned, 
stuffed  with  a  little  cooked  bacon, 
and  some  turkey  forcemeat  (page  108) , 
then  sewn  up,  rolled  in  little  cloths,  and  gently  sim- 
mered in  broth.  When  done,  let  them  cool,  take  off 
their  cloths,  let  them  get  cold,  and  glaze  them.  Now 
set  them  on  a  dish  which  should  be  k«pt  on  ice,  and  serve 
them,  garnished  with  olives  farcies,  and  hand  round  iced 
tartare. 

6. — This  is  merely  the  usual  puree  of  spinach,  nicely 

worked  up  with  cream,  and  delicately 

Spinach   with  but-      flavoured,  formed  in  a  circular  shape 
tered  egg.  ..,.'.,.  -  ^ 

m  its  dish,  with  a  layer  of  well  made 

^'  buttered-eggs,"   resting  on   the   surface  of   the   greens. 

hittle  fleurons  of  puff  pastry  should  be  arranged  round  the 

outside  of  the  circle. 


424  MEXU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

7. — Cut  up  a  stale  Madeira  cake  into  slices,  and  with 

^.  ,,.  them  line  the  bottom  of  a  large  srlass 

Tipsy  pudoiEg.  J-  1,     ^-      -r      X-.  -.i,       • 

dish,  tipsiiT  them  with  wme,  or  any 

nice  liqueur  and  spread  a  layer  of  any  good  jam  over  them. 
or  one  of  preserved  fruit  like  cherries,  peaches,  or  apricot?. 
Make  a  rich  custard,  and  add  to  it  an  ounce  of  dissolved 
gelatine.  When  cold,  set  the  dish  on  ice  and  poui-  a  very 
little  of  the  custard  round  the  cake  and  fruit,  letting  it  set 
by  degi^ees.  When  at  length  the  cake,  <fcc.,  is  firmly  con- 
gealed in  custard,  complete  its  covering  with  the  rest 
thereof,  and  let  it  consolidate.  Garnish  the  surface  with 
whipped  CTeam,  and  serve  straight  from  the  ice. 


Beef  Olives 

Cut  thin  slices  of  steak  two  inches  wide  by  six  inchc> 
long,  put  on  each  at  one  end  a  piece  of  Oxford,  or  Bologna 
sausage  meat  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  Qg^  ;  roll  up  each  olive 
tightly  and  neatly,  and  tie  it  up  with  a  piece  of  thread. 
Fry  them  in  hot  butter  until  they  begin  to  take  colour, 
then  take  them  out,  lemove  the  string  from  each  olive, 
and  lay  them  by.  Fry  some  onions  a  gold  colour  in  but- 
ter, add  a  very  little  flour,  sweet  herbs,  a  few  mushroom 
trimmings,  pepper  and  salt  quant,  suff.,  and  moisten  with 
some  very  good  gravy  or  stock  ;  let  the  sauce  boil,  then 
strain  it,  and  carefully  lay  the  olives  in  it  to  simmer  till 
done  and  ready  to  be  served  ;  the  sauce  should  cover  them 
in  the  .sauce-pan. 

It  will  be  observed  that  olives  are  not  used  in  this  dish 
at  all.  It  is  difficult  to  discover  how  the  word  was  chosen 
to  represent  little  rolls  of  meat  containing  sausage  salpicon 


— ^ — 
For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Potage  a  la  puree  de  becassines. 

Crepinettes  de  poisson. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Milanaise. 

Dinde  braisee,  au  choTi-flenr. 

Pain  de  foie  gras. 

Asperges  en  branches. 

Souffle  au  eliocolat. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Make  a  good  strong  stock  for  six  basins  (at  least  a. 
quart  and  a  half)  with  a  shin  of  beef, 

"^^  '  and   one   good-sized   chicken   cut   up 

into  fragments  ;  flavour  it  highly  with  sweet  herbs,  and 
mixed  vegetables.  Take  six  snipes,  and  lightly  roast 
them  :  pick  the  whole  of  the  meat  from  their  breasts,  and 
save  it ;  mash  the  bones  that  remain,  and  put  them  in  a 
bowl  w4th  the  trails.  When  the  stock  is  quite  ready, 
strain  it,  return  it  to  the  pot,  and  throw  into  it  the  bowl- 
ful of  mashed  snipe  bones,  two  glasses  of  portwine,  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  and  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  crystal-vinegar.  Let  the  contents  of  the  pot  sim- 
mer slowly  for  an  hour  and  half,  skimming  off  any  scum 
that  may  rise,  and  when  you  have  thus  extracted  the 
essence  of  the  snipe  fragments,  strain  the  liquor  from  the 


426  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

bones,  and  set  it  in  a  bowl  to  cool.  Now  pass  the  snipe  meat 
that  you  saved  through  the  mincing  machine,  and  pound 
it  thoroughly  to  a  paste,  using  a  little  of  the  soup  to  help 
that  operation.  When  the  pounded  meat  is  ready,  skim 
any  fat  that  may  have  risen  on  the  surface  of  your  soup, 
take  a  roomy  sauce-pan,  pla<?e  it  on  the  fire,  put  a  couple 
of  ounces  of  butter  into  it,  stir  into  the  butter  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  work  it  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  then  add, 
by  degrees  both  soup  and  snipe  past€,  keeping  the  spoon 
at  work  the  whole  time.  When  all  is  expended,  let  the 
puree  reach  the  boil  in  order  to  thicken  properly.  At  the 
last,  add  a  glass  of  port,  a  tea-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly, 
and  the  juice  of  a  good  lime.  Now  get  your  tureen  ready, 
break  a  raw  egg  into  a  cup,  saving  the  yolk  carefully ; 
mix  a  little  of  the  soup  with  the  jolk,  and  when  well 
mixed,  pass  it  through  a  perforated  strainer  into  the 
tureen.  Lift  the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire,  and  pour  it  over 
the  strained  egg.  Serve.  Additional  richness  would  be 
obtained  if  you  were  to  pour  into  the  tureen  with  the 
soup,  stirring  as  you  did  so,  a  coffee-cupful  of  boiling 
cream. 

2. — Choose  any  nice  fish,  and  about  an  equal  amount  of 
prawns — the  whole    being    sufficient 

Fish  rolled  ia  pan-      f^^,   g-^   portions.     Boil    the  fish  and 
cakes.  ^ 

prawns,   and  when  cold,  make  a  nice 

salpicon,  or  coarse  mince  of  them,  with  some  chopped 
mushrooms.  Mix  the  mince  in  a  sance-pan  with  some 
rich  velovAe,  and  bind  it  wnth  a  couple  of  eggs,  let  it  get 
€old  again,  and  divide  it  into  six  nice  portions,  just  as 
you  would  for  *'  kramouskys."  Now  make  a  large  pan- 
cake, or  two  small  ones,  and  when  not  quite  done,  take 
them  from  the  pan,  spread  them  on  a  flat  dish,  and  from 
them  cut  six  pieces  about  four  inches  square.  Place  your 
salpicon  portions  in  the  centre  of  each,  and  wrap  them 
up  neatly,  set  the  folded  pancakes  on  a  well-buttered  flat 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  427 

silver  dish,  egg  them,  bread-crumb  them,  pour  some  melt- 
ed butter  over  them,  and  bake  until  a  nice  golden  brown  ; 
serve  in  the  same  dish,  laid  upon  a  napkin.  The  pan- 
cakes should  be  nice  and  thin,  and  you  should  season 
your  salpicon  with  "  spiced  pepper."  "  Butch  sauce"  (not 
Hollandaise  you  know)  should  accompany. 

3. — This  is  a  dish  of  neck  chops,  nicely  trimmed,  which 

have  been   larded  with  bacon  and  set 

M u 1 1 on    cutlets,      en  marinade   all  day,   and  then bread- 
Milauaise  tasbiou.  "^ 

crumbed,  secundum  artem,  with  finely 

sifted  crumbs,  some  minced  parsley,   a  very  little  shallot, 

and  a  little  grated  cheese,  all  shaken  together,  the  crumbs 

and  cheese  in  equal  proportions.     When  nicely  crumbed 

with  this  mixture,   the  cutlets  must  be  fried  a  golden 

yellow  in  abundance  of  fat,   and  served  round  a  hollow 

mould  of  "  savoury   rice,^^  with  some  maccaroni  d   V  Ita- 

lienne  in  the  hollow  in  the  centre,  a  recipe  for  which  will 

be  found  at  page  189. 

4. — Truss  the  bird  nicely,  lard  its  breast,  stuff  it  with 

very  carefully  made  turkey  stuffing  as 

A    hen    turkey      explained  at  page  108,  and  place  it  in 

braised.  ^  ^    "^  i     f    ^     t      n 

a  deep  stew-pan  upon  a  bed  oi  sliced 

bacon.     Put  a  couple  of  sheep's  trotters,  cut  into  small 

pieces,  round  it,  with  a  sliced  Bombay  onion,  two  carrots, 

some  chopped  sweet  herbs,  whole  pepper  corns,  lime  peel, 

and  a  clove  of  garlic.      Pour  into  the  pan  a  good  pint  of 

gravy  made  from  the  giblets,  trimmings,  and  any  scraps 

you  may  have,  with  a  wine-glassful  of  Madeira,  and  cook 

the  bird  gently  with  live  coals  on  the  stew-pan  lid,  as  well 

as  under  the  vessel,  for  about    three   hours,  brown   the 

larding  on  the  breast  by  passing  a  red  hot  iron  close  to  it, 

and  serve.     Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  it,  add  some  minced 

truffles,    and    send   it   round  in    a   boat.      Potatoes    and 

cauliflower  accompanying. 


428  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

5. — A  small  tin  of  Pate  de  foie  gras  will  do  for  this  little 

party.     Cut  a  thick  slice  of  fat  bacon 
Mould  of  foie  gnis.         •    ,       j-  j  r        -i.       -.i 

into  dice,  and  try  it  with  a  seasoning 

of  spiced  pepper,  some  minced  sliallot,  parsley,  and  mar- 
joram :  when  the  bacon  is  melted,  add  some  finely  minced 
liver  (that  of  the  foregoing  turkey  could  be  spared)  fry  it 
in  the  hot  bacon,  and  then  turn  the  contents  of  your  saide- 
pan  into  a  bowl  to  cool.  Now  break  up  the  pate,  pick  out 
the  truffles,  and  foie  gras,  and  place  them  on  one  side ; 
pound  the  pate  forcemeat,  and  the  cooled  liver  and  bacon, 
together  with  the  crumb  of  a  roll,  soaked  in  a  stock,  say 
about  a  quarter  the  bulk  of  the  meat,  and  pass  this  through 
the  sieve  :  you  have  now  three  things  : — the  pounded  force- 
meat and  roll,  ihc  foie  gras,  and  the  truffles  :  choose  a  nice 
sized  plain  mould,  butter  it,  and  pack  it  with  alternate 
layers  of  forcemeat,  and  foie  gras,  dotting  the  truffles  in 
according  to  fancy  : — when  packed,  steam  the  mould  in 
your  hain-marie  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  let  it  get 
cold,  turn  it  out,  glaze,  and  ice  it.     Serve  with  dry  toast. 

G. — One  remark  only  here  : — Please  do  not  spoil  your 

asparagus  by  pouring  an  indifferent 
Asparagus.  i-i        i  .  .      ,, 

white  sauce  like  thin  "  conjee  over  it. 
All  you  have  to  do  is  this  :  gently  warm  the  asparagus  in 
its  own  tin  in  the  hain-marie-\)a.u  (immersed  in  a  bath  of 
hot  water)  drain  it  from  its  liquor  as  soon  as  it  is  hot  (if 
3-011  keep  it  longer  it  will  be  spoilt)  and  turn  it  carefully 
into  a  hot  dish.  Put  a  pat  of  fresh,  or  of  the  "  Denmark" 
tinned  butter  on  the  top  of  it,  give  it  a  squeeze  of  a  lime, 
and  serve.  A  pat  of  maifre  cVhotel  or  anchovy  butter,  may 
with  advantage  supply  the  place  of  plain  butter. 

N.B. — For  heaven's  sake,  no  toast. 

V. — For  the  chocolate  souffle  take  two  ounces  of  chocolate, 

and  grate  it  into  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

Chocolate  soufile.  j  i      <•         1  ,.  .,,  ^ 

iiaa  a  tew  drops  01  vaniUu  essence,  and 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  429 

boil  tlie  milk  so  that  the  chocolate  may  become  thoroughly 
dissolved :  when  this  has  been  done,  the  flavoured  milk 
should  be  thickened  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  potato-flour, 
or  corn-flour,  then  strained,  and  set  to  get  cold.  The 
yolks  of  four  eggs  and  a  glass  of  liqueur  should  then  be 
beaten  up  with  the  cold  batter,  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
being  added  in  the  shape  of  a  stiff  froth  just  before 
baking.  A  proper  souffle  case  or  tin  should  be  used  to 
ensure  success. 

Gateau  Napolitain, 

Take  of  powdered  lump  sugar  the  weight  of  twelve  eggs 
in  their  shells,  and  take  half  that  weight  of  potato  flour ; 
separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beat  up 
the  latter  with  the  sugar,  adding  a  few  drops  of  essence  of 
lemon.  Whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  the  two  to- 
gether, and  incorporate  with  the  mixture,  quickly  and 
effectually,  the  potato  flour,  beating  it  all  the  time  with  the 
egg  whisk.  Pour  into  a  plain  mould,  buttered.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  done.  When  cold,  cut  the  cake  in 
horizontal  slices  half  an  inch  thick.  Spread  half  the  slices 
of  cake  with  apricot  jam,  and  half  with  chocolate  icing. 
Arrange  the  slices  one  over  the  other,  so  as  to  form  the 
cake  again.  Trim  the  slices  neatly,  and  ice  the  cake  com- 
pletely over  with  chocolate  icing.  This  must  be  done 
quickly,  and  the  icing  should  be  kept  hot,  for  it  soon  sets. 
Ornament  the  cake  with  any  bonbons  or  sweet-meats, 
which  must  be  put  on  before  the  icing  has  time  to  cooh 


--^^^H^.. 


U 


:is.<rEn>J"XT    nsro- 


For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Consomme  d'abatis. 

Dariie  de  sccr  en  papillotc. 

Cotck'ttes  dc  monton  an  macedoinc  de  legumes. 

Oic  rotie  anx  choux  de  Bruxelles. 

^lorinc^akai  an  gratin. 

Cremc  Garibaldi. 

Fromas^e,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Cafe  noir. 

1. — Take  the  jjiblets  of  the  goose  which  forms  part  of 
the  menu,  clean  them  carefully,  cut 
them  up  small,  and  put  them  with  an 
ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  with  an  onion  shredded 
finely,  and  fry  them  a  pale  golden  colour ;  add  a  glass  of 
Marsala,  and  a  little  beef  consomme,  reduce  to  a  glaze,  and 
then  pour  in  the  remainder  of  the  consomme  which  you 
make  daily.  Now  throw  in  an  onion,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a 
muslin  bag  of  sweet  herbs,  a  stick  of  celery,  a  carrot,  a 
dozen  pepper  corns,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  one 
of  salt.  Simmer  for  two  hours.  "When  satisfied  that  you 
have  extracted  the  flavour  of  the  giblets,  stop,  strain  the 
liquor,  colour  it  with  caramel,  let  it  get  cold,  skim  off 
all  grease,  clarify  it  if  necessary,  give  it  half  a  glass  of 
Madeira,  and  a  drop  or  two  of  tabasco,  and  serve  very  hot. 

For  thick  giblet  soup,  you  must  thicken  with  butter  and 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  431 

flour,  after  the  straining  stage,  and  serve  it  with  croutons 
of  fried  bread.  I  denounce  the  serving  of  fragments  of 
the  giblets  in  either  the  thick  or  clear  soup.  The  flavour 
is  all  you  require. 

2. — Cut  a  parboiled  carrot  and   one    parboiled   onion 

into  thin  slices,  add  some  powdered 

Slice    of     seer    id      dried  thyme  and  marioram  and  some 
paper.  "^  ,  -^ 

chopped  parsley;  mix  this  up   with 

three  table-spoonfuls  of  salad  oil  and  cover  your  slice  of 
seer  with  the  mixture.  Now  wrap  the  fish  carefully  in  a 
sheet  of  buttered  paper  and  bake  it  for  half  an  hour. 
When  done,  remove  the  paper  very  carefully  and  place  the 
slice  upon  a  dish  made  hot  to  receive  it.  Melt  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  butter,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  a  cupful 
of  broth,  and  the  vegetables,  &c.,  in  which  the  slice  was 
cooked;  boil  this  for  three  or  four  minutes,  strain,  and. 
pour  it  over  the  fish. 

3. — Take  the  eight  cutlets  (small  chops)  which  you  can 

get  from  a  neck  of  mutton,  trim  them 

Mutton  cutlets  with      neatly,  and  grill  them  over  a  brisk, 

mixed  vegetables.  j  ■>  a  ? 

clear  fire :  when  done,  arrange  them 

round  a  circle   of   nicely  mashed  potato,  in  the  centre  of 

which  must  be  placed  a  sauce  an  macedohie  de  legumes^ 

which  I  have  already  explained ;  some  French  beans,  a 

carrot,   a    turnip,   and  a  piece    of    cucumber,   previously 

boiled,   cut  into  small  dice,  and   heated  up  in  some  well 

made  sauce  blonde,  a  few  green  peas,  and  some   pieces  of 

boiled  celery  may  be  added  if  you  can  get  them. 

4. — Pick,  draw,  singe,  truss,  and  stuff  the  goose  (see 

page  111).     Roast  it  before  a  clear 
Roast  Goose.  n  i  -a.      -^i       -^i  ^ 

fire,  and  serve  it  with  either  apple  or 

tomato  sauce  in  a  boat :  potatoes  and  Brussels-sprouts  (if 

in  season)  should  accompany.     A  capital  addition  to  the 

goose's  gravy  is  to  be  made  in  this  way.     After  you  have 


432  MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX. 

cut  a  slice  into  the  breast,  let  the  gravy  run  out  for  a 
moment,  then  add  to  it  in  the  dish  (tipped  up)  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  salt-spoonful  of  Nepaul  pepper,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  and  a  glass  of  portwine.  Stir 
these  ingredients  into  the  gravy,  baste  the  bird  well  with 
it,  and  go  on  with  the  carving. 

5. — If  you  sunmion  up  courage  to  try  this  homely  dish, 

you   will   often   oi-dcr  it    again.     Buy 
^^  ^ >h  1'°™^*'*^'*      enough  young  moringa  pods  to  yield 

seeds  enough  to  fill  a  little  pie-dish. 
Boil  them,  and  scrape  out  the  seeds,  and  the  tender  flesh 
inside  the  pods,  into  a  basin  :  stir  into  this  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  cream,  or  a  coffee-cupful  of  milk  in  which  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  have  been  well  beaten ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  anchovy  essence  ;  pass 
this  into  a  well  buttered  pie-dish,  and  grate  over  the  sur- 
face a  good  layer  of  Parmesan  or  any  nice  mild  dry  cheese. 
Bake  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  serve.  If  you  can  bake 
and  serve  the  mixture  in  silver  coqm'Ue  shells, — one  for 
each  guest, — the  entremets  will,  of  course,  look  nicer. 

6. — Make  a  rich  custard  with  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  pint 

^  of  milk,    Hoz.  of  isinglass,  sugar  to 

Garibaldi  cream.  i  ",  -,-,  ,.      •    -. 

taste,   and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs. 

Flavour  it  with  any  essence  you  like,  strain  it,  and  divide 

it  into  three   basins  ;  colour  the  first  a  bright  red  with 

cochineal,  the  second  green   with   spinach  greening,  and 

leave  the  third  its  original  colour.     Whip  each  separately 

to  a  froth.     These  operations  must   be  done  while  the 

custard  is   still  warm.     Set  according  to  the  following 

process  : — Lay  a  mould  on  ice,  pour  some  of  the  red  cream 

into  it  to  the  thickness  of  about  an  inch.     When  this  is 

set,   pour  in  a    similar   layer  of  the   plain   cream,   and, 

when  this   is   set,   pour  in   a    layer  of  the  green   cream. 

Go  on   pouring  in  layers  in  the  same  way  until  the  mould 

is  filled.     When  the   cream  is   quite  set.   turn  it  out.  and 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  433 

serve.  Care  must  be  taken  in  pouring  in  each  kind  of 
cream  to  get  every  layer  the  same  depth.  This  is  best 
done  by  measuring  with  water  how  much  liquid  will  go  to 
make  a  layer  of  the  required  thickness,  and  then  getting  a 
cup  which  holds  just  that  quantity,  and  using  it  to  mea- 
sure the  cream. 


Perdreaux  aux  choux- 

This  delicious  dish  deserves  the  closest  attention,  for  it 
is  perhaps  the  best  way  of  cooking  Indian  partridges  : — 

Prepare  four  partridges  as  for  boiling,  with  their  legs 
tucked  in  :  lard  their  breasts  with  bacon  and  put  an  onion 
inside  each  of  them.  Cut  a  nice  cabbage  into  quarters, 
blanch  them,  and  steep  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour. 
Now  take  a  roomy  stew-pan,  line  its  bottom  with  two  car- 
rots, and  two  large  onions  sliced  in  rings,  a  sprinkling  of 
powdered  herbs,  and  a  dusting  of  salt,  and  pejDper.  Put  the 
partridges  above  this  lining,  inserting  a  quarter  of  cabbage 
between  each  bird,  a  slice  of  bacon  here  and  there,  and 
some  slices  of  Bologna  or  Brunswick  sausage.  Moisten 
with  sufficient  well  made  gravy  to  cover  the  birds.  Boil 
closely  covered  up,  and  then  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a 
half  if  the  birds  are  tender.  Dish  with  the  cabbage  in 
the  centre,  and  the  birds  placed  neatly  round  it,  with  the 
sliced  sausage  and  bacon  as  garnish.  Serve  the  gravy  in 
a  boat. 


^^^^^^ 


— ♦ — • 
For  a  dinner  of  six. 

Consomme  de  grandes  crevettes. 

Filets  de  pomfret  sauce  au  persil. 

Croustades  de  foie  gras. 

Chapon  braise  an  puree  do  navcts. 

Ortolans  des  Indcs. 

Bandecai  au  gratin. 

Pctits  "  puddings"  angeliqucs. 

Fromage,  hors  d'ceuvres. 

Cafe  noir. 

1. — Prepare  your  ordinary  beef  consomme  from  your  daily 

allowance  of  soup  meat.     Boil  a  dozen 
Clenr  prawn  soup.  .  ,^      -,. 

good-Sized  prawns,  save  the  liquor  in 

whicli  you  have  cooked  them,  reduce  that  a  little,  and 
throw  into  it  the  meat  which  you  pick  from  the  shells, 
and  the  shells  pounded  ;  add  the  beef  consomme,  some 
pepper  corns,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  dried  basil  tied  up  in  a 
muslin  bag,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  some  celery  leaves  : 
let  this  simmer  gently,  strain  after  three  hours'  simmer- 
ing, clarify  it,  and  add  half  a  glass  of  Madeira.  Quenelles 
of  the  prawn  meat  may  be  used  as  garnish. 

2. — Cook  the  fillets  in  milk  as  I  have  described  (page  81): 

or,  if  you  cannot  spare  the  milk,  trim 

win/ parsley  ^^ZT''      ^^^^^  ^l^^ts,  tie  them  in  little  knots,  and 

simmer  them  in  a  liquor  made  from  the 


MENU  FOR  A  DINNER  OF  SIX.  435 

bones  and  trimmings  of  the  fish  they  were  cnt  from, 
flavoured  with  a  few  vegetables.  Make  a  melted  butter 
sauce  diluted  with  the  broth  in  which  your  fillets  were 
boiled,  and  add  to  it  a  table-spoonful  of  finely  minced 
parsley,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar  :  an  onion 
should  be  boiled  in  the  water  with  the  fillets,  and  jDressed 
into  the  sauce  through  the  sieve. 

3. — Choose  six  or  eight  nice  rolls  that  have  been  baked 

in   small  round  tins  ;  scoop   out  the 

Bread    cases    with      crumb,  and  make  hollow  cases  of  them, 
foie  gras. 

then   fry   them    a    golden    yellow    in 

butter.     Open  a  small  tin  oi  jpdte  de  foie  gras,  and  make  a 

cupful  of  thick  Espagnole  sauce  (brown  gravy).     Proceed 

to  pack  your  cases  in  this  way  : — first  butter  them,  then 

fill  them  neatly  with  foie  gras,  pouring  some  gravy  round 

the  layers  to  moisten  them,   put  a  curl  of  crisply  fried 

bacon  on  the  top  of  each  croustade,  bake  them  till  quite 

hot,  and  dish  upon  a  napkin. 

4. — Prepare  a  well  fed  capon  as  if  for  boiling,  cutting 
off  all  superfluous  bones,  the  pinions, 

with  the  heart,  gizzard,  and  liver  (the 
giblets),  throw  into  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them  ; 
adding  a  carrot  and  an  onion  sliced,  and  some  whole  pep- 
pers. Whilst  this  is  producing  a  broth,  stuff,  and  lard  the 
capon  with  strips  of  fat  bacon,  and  fill  the  cavity  of  its 
carcass  with  a  couple  of  sweet  onions.  When  your  broth 
is  ready,  choose  a  deep  stew-pan,  and  place  the  bird  therein, 
with  a  carrot  cut  into  slices,  celery  leaves  and  stalks,  two 
onions,  pepper  corns,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  some  dried  thyme 
in  a  muslin  bag,  and  a  glass  of  sherry.  Braise  the  bird 
in  this  till  done  : — Meanwhile  pound  the  liver  you  boiled 
in  the  broth,  and  get  ready  some  tomato  pulp  (say)  a  tea- 
cupful.  Lift  out  the  capon,  and  dish  it  upon  some  previ- 
ously boiled  maccaroni :  strain  off  the  gravy  in  which  it 


43G  MESU  FOR  A  DIAWER  OF  SIX. 

was  braised,  thicken  it,  add  the  liver,  and  tomato  pulp, 
give  it  a  rapid  boil  up,  and  pour  it  over  the  bird.  The 
stuffing  of  the  capon  helps  to  preserve  its  juiciness,  and 
lends  a  nice  flavour  to  it.  Serve  with  puree  of  young 
turnips,  and  potatoes    a  la  maitre  d"  hot  el. 

5. — The  ortolan  of  India  is,  I  think,  the  *'  cholum  bird" 

,   ,.  .  which  is  easily  procurable  late  in  the 

Jndian  ortohins.  '  ,  .    i 

year.  Truss  the  cholum  birds,  put  a 
slice  of  bacon  inside  them,  wrap  a  vine  leaf  round  each 
bird  and  a  piece  of  bacon  over  the  vine  leaf  :  tie  the  leaf 
and  bacon  in  their  place  with  a  tape.  Roast  over  a  brisk 
fire,  serving  each  little  bird  on  a  .square  of  hot  buttered 
toast,  garnished  with  water  cress,  '  sauce  higarade  should 
go  round  in  a  boat. 

6. — Butter  a  small  pie-dish  liberally,  then  fill  it  with  the 

„     ,      .  pulp  and  seeds  of  some  well  boiled, 

Bandeciu  au  gratin.        ,       j       ,        -,        •         i      ^  .1  ^  .^i 

tender  bandecais  :  dust  the  pulp  with 

white  pepper,  and  some  grated  cheese  and  pour  a  little 

milk  in  which  the  yolk  of  an  egg  has  been  beaten  (or 

cream  if  you  can  allow  it)  in  amongst  the  pulp,  dust  a 

layer  of  cheese   over   the   surface,    and    bake  for  ten  or 

twelve  minutes  ;  or  the  bandecai  mixture  can  be  baked  in 

coquille  shells,  which  should  be  served  on  a  napkin. 

7. — One  ounce  of  flour,  one  ounce  of  bread  crumbs,  any 
,.     ,,.  essence  to  flavour,  two  ounces  of  sugar, 

two  ounces  of  butter  melted  m  half 
pint  of  milk,  and  two  eggs,  well  beaten  up. 

Mix  well :  bake  in  small,  buttered  patty-pans  till 
browned,  then  turn  them  out,  and  serve  on  a  napkin, 
powdered  sugar  dusted  over  all,  and  sauce  a  la  Uoyale 
in  a  boat. 


M 

1 

^ 

m 

iviEzsj-cj    isro.    i^^i:^^. 


For  a  party  of  six. 

Puree  de  lievre. 

Pomfret  a  la  Proven9ale. 

Blanqnette  de  volaille. 

Longe  de  mouton  farcie. 

Turban  de  becassines. 

Mais  a  rAmericaine. 

Soupirs  de  nonne. 

Fromage,  hors  d'ceuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — In  a  previous  Menu  I  gave  jou  a  recipe  for  a  hare 

soup,  simplified  from  Gouffe.     There 

Hare  soup,  (Puree.)       ,     ,  .,  i         •   i        i  •     -, 

IS,  however,  another  and  a  richer  kind 

of  soup,  with  which  the  pounded  meat  of  the  hare  is  in- 
corporated, which  has  many  devoted  admirers.  It  is 
composed  in  the  following  way : — Make  your  ordinary 
amount  of  stock  from  a  shin  and  a  half  of  beef.  As  the 
stock  is  being  made,  clean,  and  cut  up  the  hare,  saving 
the  blood.  Let  the  pieces  soak  for  half  an  hour,  or  so,  in 
cold  water.  When  the  beef  gravy  is  ready,  put  the  pieces 
of  hare  into  a  large  stew-pan  with  a  bacon,  or  ham  bone, 
or  a  few  lean  slices  of  either,  an  anchovy,  three  Bombay 
onions  cut  into  quarters,  three  carrots  sliced,  a  bag  con- 
taining a  dessert-spoonful  each  of  marjoram,  thyme,  and 
parsley,  the  rind  of  two  limes,  and  a  dozen  pepper  corns, 

46 


433  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX. 

and  cover  the  Tvhole  with  the  stock.  Let  this  simmer 
very  gently  for  three  hours,  after  it  has  once  slowly 
attained  boiling  point.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  strain 
the  liquor  from  the  meat,  &c.,  and  set  it  to  get  cool.  Pick 
the  meat  out,  and  lay  the  pieces  on  a  large  dish.  Choose 
the  back  fillets,  pick  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  pound 
it  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  moistening  it  with  a  little  soup 
to  assist  the  operation ;  as  soon  as  you  have  got  the  meat 
satisfactorily  pounded,  work  it  through  the  sieve,  and 
save  the  pulp  that  you  get  carefully.  Now  take  another 
stew  pan,  place  it  on  the  fire,  melt  a  couple  of  ounces  of 
butter  in  it,  and  work  into  it  a  good  table-spoonful  of 
flour ;  when  you  have  got  a  nice  paste,  add  a  little  soup 
with  which  the  blood  has  been  mixed,  continue  stirring, 
and,  with  the  aid  of  an  assistant,  go  on  adding  soup,  and 
pounded  meat,  till  you  have  exhausted  the  whole,  stirring 
without  ceasing ;  now  add  half  a  pint  of  portwine,  a 
table-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
crystal  vinegar,  or  lime  juice.  Let  the  soup  come  to  the 
boil,  so  as  to  thicken  properly,  and  become  thoroughly 
blended.     It  can  then  be  served. 

2. — Boil  the   fish,  and   serve  it  with  this  sauce : — Put 
into  a  sauce-pan  a  coffee-cupful  of  the 

clove  of  garlic,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
mushrooms,  all  finely  chopped  up ;  when  this  has  been  on 
the  fire  a  few  minutes,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  stir 
it  well,  and  pour  in  a  glass  of  chablis,  sauterne,  or  hock, 
with  half  a  pint  of  gravy  ;  add  a  dessert- spoonful  of  finely 
minced  thyme,  marjoram,  parsley,  and  lime  peel,  all  mixed 
together,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  : 
let  the  sauce  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain 
and  serve.  This  can  be  got  ready  early  in  the  day,  and 
kept  hot  in  the  hain-marie  or  re-heated  when  the  time 
comes  for  its  service. 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX.  439 

3. — This  I  would  serve  within  a  casserole  of  '  savoury 

_,         .^     n  P     ,       ^ice'  garnished  with  cui-ls  of  crisply 

Blanquette  of  fowl.       »  .    t    ,  ,    ,         ,  „         ^/ 

tried    bacon,    and   bunches    of    curly 

parsley.     For  the  blanquette  : — slightly  roast  a  well  fed 
fowl,  covering  the  breast  with  buttered  paper  to  prevent 
its  burning :  when  done,  put  it   on  a  dish,  and  let  it  get 
cold.     Then  carve  it  neatly,  cutting  the  white  meat  off  in 
nice  little  round  fillets,   and  saving  the  wings,   merry- 
thought, &c.     Take  the  bones,  skin,  giblets,  (previously 
saved)  trimmings,  and  coarser  meat  of   the  drumsticks, 
and  beat  them  well  with  your  pestle.     Next  throw  them 
into  a  sauce-pan,  with  as  much  clear  stock  as  will  cover 
them,  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  the  usual  proportion  of  vege- 
tables, especially  celery,  a  bag  of  savoury  herbs,  lime  peel, 
and  a  pinch  of  sugar.     Make  with  this  an  excellent  fowl 
consomme,  an  essence  as  it  were,  adding  six  pounded  sweet, 
and  one  bitter  almond.     When  quite  ready,  strain  it  off, 
and  thicken  it  as  for  veloute.     Then  having  got  a  rich, 
creamy,  delicately  flavoured,  white  sauce,  put  into  it  all 
your  pieces  of  fowl,  with   some  pellets  of  tongue  cut  like 
gun  wads  rather  thickly,  some  sweetbreads  (if  you  can  get 
them),  some  button  mushrooms,  a  few  oysters  trimmed 
free  from  their  beards,  a  few  slices  of  truffle,  the  liver  of 
the  fowl  minced,  and  some  grated  lean  bacon  or  ham. 
Gently, — ever  so  gently  mind, — heat   up  the   hlanquette, 
and  let  it  simmer   for  half  an  hour  over  a  low   fire  ;  the 
various  flavours  will  thus  be  extracted,  and  your  plat  he 
ready  to  serve  whenever  you  want  it.     A  table-spoonful  of 
cream,  or  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  beaten  in  a  cup  with 
a  little  of  the  sauce  should  be  added,  and  stirred   well  in 
as  a  finishing  touch. 

4. — Bone  the  loin,  introduce  a  number  of  slices  of  bacon 

under  the  flap,  fill  the   inside  with  a 

to?Tuffid!°  *^^  '"^^'      forcemeat  made  with  the  meat  of  the 

undercut  chopped  up  small,  with  the 


440  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX. 

kidney  (scalded  first),  and  some  of  the  nicest  fat,  seasoned 
with  herbs,  spiced  pepper,  chopped  bacon,  a  little  onion, 
and  any  mushroom,  or  trufile  parinsrs  you  may  have  been 
able  to  spare  from  the  hlanquette.  Bind  the  salpicon  vriih. 
four  eggs,  and  spread  it  thickly  over  the  inside  of  the  bon- 
ed loin,  then  roll  the  joint  up,  and  tie  it  firmly  into  shape, 
— do  not  skewer  it.  Now  braise  the  loin  in  a  gravy  made 
from  its  own  bones  and  trimmings,  with  a  glass  of  Ma- 
deira, a  clove  of  garlic,  and  scraps  of  vegetables  of  all 
kinds  arranged  round  it.  When  done,  and  nicely  browned, 
lift  up  the  loin,  remove  the  string,  and  dish  it  on  a  layer 
of  boiled  maccaroni.  Strain  off  the  gravy,  throw  away 
the  garlic,  and  pass  all  the  vegetables  through  the  sieve  ; 
thicken  the  gravy,  add  the  vegetable  pulp,  and  when 
thoroughly  incorporated,  pour  it  round  the  loin  and 
serve. 

5. — A  snipe  for  each  head.     Begin  by  roasting  the  snipes 

_    ,        ,      .  liefhtly,  then  cut  off  the  meat  of  the 

Tuibauof  enipea.  ,  ,     ,       •       n,i  -»c     i        i 

breasts   whole  in    nllets.     Mash    the 

rest,  trails  and  all,  and  throw  the  debris  into  a  large  sauce- 
pan with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  well  made  beef  gravy,  an 
onion  cut  up,  a  stick  of  celery,  a  carrot,  sweet  herbs  in  a 
bag,  a  clove  of  garlic,  salt  to  taste,  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar, 
and  the  peel  of  a  lime.  Simmer  as  soon  as  the  contents  of 
the  sauce-pan  have  come  to  the  boil,  for  an  hour  or  more, 
and  get  the  essence  out  of  the  snipe  bones.  When  that 
has  been  done,  strain  off  your  gravy,  and  set  it  to  get  cool . 
Pick  all  the  snipe  meat  from  the  bones  of  the  thighs  and 
back,  with  the  livers,  (tc,  and  pound  the  whole  with  half 
its  bulk  of  bread  (soaked  in  stock)  in  a  mortar,  add  the 
pounded  meat  of  a  lightly  roasted  chicken  with  its  liver, 
and  mix  them  thoroughly  with  two  raw  eggs  ;  season  the 
mixture  with  spiced  pepper,  and  dilute  it  with  some  of 
the  gravy  ;  when  worked  sufficiently,  put  it  into  a  border 
mould,   and   steam   it   gently.     Turn   it   out   when  done, 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX.  441 

garnish  the  top  of  the  turban  with  the  snipe  heads  and 
beaks,  and  with  a  fillet  (heated  separately  in  the  gravy,) 
between  each  head  and  serve  piping  hot.  The  centre  of 
the  mould  may  contain  the  contents  of  a  tin  of  black 
Leicestershire  mushrooms,  also  heated  in  the  gravy.  The 
gravy  itself  should  be  treated  thus  : — After  it  has  cooled, 
and  you  have  skimmed  it,  place  a  sauce-pan  on  the  fire, 
with  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  it ;  work 
into  the  melted  butter  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  and 
then  add  your  cool  gravy,  stirring  all  the  time ;  get  an 
assistant  to  pour  in  a  glass  of  portwine,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  vinegar,  or  lime  juice,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  red  cur- 
rant jelly  ;  amalgamate  the  whole  thoroughly,  heat  up 
the  fillets,  and  heads  in  it,  and  the  mushrooms  strained 
from  their  own  gravy.  Garnish  the  turban  quickly,  as 
above  described,  and  put  the  mushrooms  inside  the  mould, 
pour  the  gravy  over  the  whole  composition,  and  serve. 

6. — Choose  half  a  dozen  tender  cobs  of  Indian  corn. 
The  cobs  should  be  still  greenish 
Am^icanwly."  "'  otherwise  they  will  be  too  tough. 
Boil  them,  and  then,  with  a  silver 
fork,  strip  the  corn  from  the  cob.  When  wanted  for  the 
table,  melt  a  large  pat  of  fresh  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a 
sauce-pan,  empty  the  corn  into  the  pan,  stir  it  about  add- 
ing butter,  pepper  and  salt,  till  it  is  smoking  hot ;  then 
serve. 

7. — Mix  together  in  a  sauce-pan  four  ounces  of  floui',  and 
an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  add  a  coffee- 

teS""''  ''^^'  ^^'''^'  ^^P^^l  ^^  ^^""^  ^^^^  •  stir  to  the  con- 
sistency of  a  thick  batter  :  if  too  thick 
(it  should  coat  the  spoon  well  when  lifted  from  the  sauce- 
pan) dilute  with  a  little  more  milk.  Stir  in  one  ounce  of 
finely  sifted  sugar,  and  the  rasped  peel  of  three  nice  limes 
with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  essence.  Stir  the  whole  mix- 
ture over  the  fire  till  thoroughly  heated,  but  on  no  account 


442  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX. 

let  it  boil.  When  well  mixed  and  hot,  place  the  batter  on 
one  side  to  get  cool.  As  serving  time  approaches,  break 
four  eggs  into  a  bowl  separating  the  yolks  from  the  whites  ; 
beat  the  former,  and  whisk  the  latter  to  a  froth.  Add  the 
jolks  to  the  cool  batter,  stir  thoroughly  and  at  the  last  add 
the  whisked  whites.  Prepare  a  deep  bath  of  boiling  fat,  set 
your  frying  basket  therein,  and  drop  the  batter  into  it,  by 
dessert-spoonfuls  at  a  time.  Each  spoonful  will  form  it- 
self into  a  ball  and  turn  gradually  a  golden  yellow.  When 
they  are  all  done,  drain  and  serve  them  in  a  napkin,  dust- 
ed over  with  well  powdered  sugar,  and  this  sauce  in  a 
boat : — Make  a  nice  syrup  (not  too  thick)  with  white 
sugar  and  water,  stir  in  a  glass  of  brandy  or  Madeira, 
give  it  the  juice  of  a  lime,  and  serve  hot. 


Gateau  de   pistache- 

The    weight    of    eight    eggs  in   their    shells    of    fincly- 

l)owdered  sugar,   that  of  two  eggs  of 

ristacbio  nut  cake.  ,    ,      a  j  xi.  •    \.l     c 

potato  flour,   and  the  same  weight  or 

pistachio  nuts  blanched  and  skinned.     Beat  up  the  sugar 

and  the  yolks   of   eight  eggs  well   together  with  an   egg 

whisk  or  with  a  fork,   until  the  mixture  assumes  a  white 

creamy  appearance.     Sprinkle  in  (beating  the  mixture  all 

the  time)  half  the  potato  flour,  and  add  the  whites  of  four 

eggs  whisked   to  a  stiff  froth.     Then  put  in,  in  the  same 

manner,  the   rest  of  the  flour,  the  remaining  four  whites 

beaten  to  a  froth,  and  lastly  the   pistachio  nuts   pounded 

to  a  paste  in  a  mortar.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven.     Meanwhile 

put  the  whites  of  two  eggs  into  a  basin  with  a  little  lime 

juice  and  six  ounces  of  sugar,  well  work  the  mixture  with 

a  wooden  spoon,  and  as  it  gets  thin,  keep  on  adding  more 

sugar  until  you  get  a  smooth  paste  of  the  consistency  of 

batter.     Lay  the  icing  evenly  on  the  cake  with  a  spatula, 

put  it  into  the  oven  for  a  minute  to  set  the  icing,  ornamen 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX.  443 

it  quickly  with  strips  of  citron  and  preserved  cherries, 
and  put  it  aside  to  get  cold. 


Chaud-froid  a  la  belle  alliance. 

This  is  a  slight  departure  from  the  ordinary  school  of 
chaud-f voids.  Take  as  many  cold  foiids  d'articliauts  as  you 
have  guests — either  fresh /o?zc?s  or  those  preserved  in  tins. 
Lightly  roast  a  tender  fowl,  and  cut  from  it  when  cold  as 
many  nice  fillets  as  you  have  fonds,  shaping  them  so  as  to 
fit  the  tops  of  the  latter.  Make  a  pu7'ee  with  the  scraps  of 
meat  left  after  trimming  the  fillets,  associating  with  it 
some  pounded  mushroom.  From  a  cold  boiled  tongue  cut 
as  many  round  slices  as  you  have  fillets.  Make  a  good 
veloute  with  the  bones,  skin,  &c.,  assisted  by  a  little  fresh 
meat,  and  reduce  as  already  explained  for  chaud-froid 
sauce.  !N'ow  moisten  the  puree  with  a  little  sauce,  and  fill 
the  cavities  of  the  fonds;  over  that  put  the  slices  of 
tongue,  some  more  puree,  and  then  the  fillets.  Mask  the 
whole  with  the  thick  chaud-froid  sauce,  let  them  get  cold, 
trim  them  neatly,  set  them  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  each 
with  a  piece  of  truffle.  If  carefully  made,  this  makes  a 
nice  entree. 


■■^S^^^M'^i^^^^^ 

IVIEIISrXJ     INTO. 


For  a  party  of  six. 

Potage  a  la  Nivcrnaise. 

Filets  de  soles,  sauce  a  la  paiivre  homnio. 

Filets  de  lapin  a  I'ltalienne. 

Longe  de  monton  braisee. 

Rouelles  de  sarcelles  a  la  Wjvcm. 

Tomates  a  I'ltalienne. 

"  Pudding"  a  la  "  Queen  Mab." 

Souffle  de  vanille. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — This  is  a  soup  in  tlie  style  of  Julienne,  of  which  the 

flavour  is  exclusively  restricted  to  that 
Nivemaise  soup.  r  i        tt      • 

of  can'ots.    Having  set  your  soup  meat 

for  stock  as  usual  for  a  clear  soup,  you  should  take  four 

good-sized  caii'ots,  -wash  them  well,  and  cut  out  of  them  a 

number  of  thickish  pieces  the  size  and  shape  of  a  pigeon's 

®gg>  or  a  little  smaller.     When  you  have  cut  a  couple  of 

dozen  such  pieces,  throw  all  the  scraps  and  trimmings  of 

the  carrots  into   the  stock  pot,  to  flavour  the   soup   well. 

Shortly  before  serving  time,  you  must  cook  the  trimmed 

carrots  in  this  way  : — Melt  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  a 

frying-pan,  put  into  it  the  carrot  pieces,  which  should  have 

been  all  but  boiled  till  soft  in  the  soup,  and  toss  thera  about 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX.  445 

over  the  fire  adding  a  salt-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar, 

with  a  dusting  of   pepper  and   of   salt,    and  moistening 

the  pan  with  a  spoonful  of  stock  as  the  butter  is  absorb^ 

ed  ;  when  done,  the  pieces  of  carrot  will  be  almost  glazed. 

All  you  have  then  to  do, — your  consomme  having  been 

strained,  clarified  and  prepared   for   serving, — is  to  put 

the  glazed  carrots  into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over 

them. 

2. — Fillet  a  couple  of  nice  soles,  brush  the  fillets  over  on 

one  side  with  egg,  dust  over  that  some 

Sole  fillets,  with      minced  parsley  and  shallot,  and  roll  up 
poor  man  s  sauce.  . 

your  fillets,   securing  each   in  shape 

with  a  tiny  skewer.     Simmer  these  fillets  carefully  in  a 

broth  made  from  their  own  bones  and  trimmings,  assisted 

by  a  spoonful  of  chablis  or  sauterne,  and  a  coffee-cupful 

of  stock.     When  done  (which  you  can  find  out  by  testing 

them  with  a  pointed  skewer)   place  the  fillets  on  a  hot 

dish  and  cover  them  up. 

For  the  sauce  : — Fry  a  couple  of  finely  minced   onions 

in  butter  till  they  assume  a  golden  tint,  stir  into  this,  by 

degrees,  a  coffee-cupful  of  the  gravy  in  which  the  fillets 

were  cooked.     When  boiling,   sharpen  this  by  adding  a 

spoonful  of  vinegar,  then  strain  and  pour  it  into  another 

sauce-pan  (by  degrees)  in  which  some  good  sauce  blanche 

has  been  made  ;  mix  thoroughly  over  the  fire,  and  serve 

round  the  fillets. 

3. — I  do  not  think  that  we  utilize  rabbits  as  much  as  we 
might  at  Madras.     Those  who  keep 

ItSwfy^^*'  ''^  ^^^  *^®^'  °^  ^^^  procure  them,  will  find 
this  an  exceedingly  nice  entree  for  a 
change.  Assuming  that  the  rabbit  be  a  full  grown  one,  it 
will  yield  six  nice  fillets  as  follows  : — With  a  sharp  knife 
detach  from  either  side  of  the  back  bone  the  deep  strips  of 
meat  which  run  from  the  shoulder  to  the  end  of  the  loin :  cut 
out  each  strip  whole,  and  remove  the  small  nerves  or 

47 


446  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX. 


sinews  of  each,  or  they  will  crinkle  up  in  cooking,  and 
look  ugly.  Cut  each  strip  into  three  equal  portions,  cross- 
wise, flatten  them  with  a  bat,  trim  them  neatly,  lard  them 
with  bacon,  and  lay  them  upon  a  butteretl  tin  in  the  oven 
sufficiently  long  to  stiffen  them;  take  them  out,  place 
them  under  a  weight,  and  when  quite  cold  and  firm,  dip 
them  into  some  melted  buttei-  or  sweet  salad  oil,  and  roll 
them  in  a  mixture  of  bread-crumbs,  and  gi-ated  mild  cheese, 
in  equal  proportions,  dust  over  them  some  spiced  pep- 
per, and  a  little  salt  and  let  them  i*est  to  set  thoroughly. 
Next  dip  them  carefully  in  a  soup  plate  containing  an  eg^ 
beaten  up,  and  then  roll  them  in  veiy  fine  bread-crumbs. 
They  may  be  left  now  till  wanted.  When  that  time  comes, 
they  must  be  fned  in  abundance  of  fat,  and  served,  a 
pale  golden  yellow,  round  a  ciixjle  of  savouiy  rice,  or 
maccaroni  an  parmesa7i.  The  centre  of  the  circle  may 
contain  any  nice  puree  of  vegetable,  or  pet  its  pois.  All  the 
remains  of  the  mbbit,  shoulders,  legs,  etc.,  can  be  made 
into  a  pic,  with  a  chicken,  and  left  to  be  cold  for  break- 
fast, or  lunch,  the  next  day.  Or  the  meat  may  be  pounded, 
and  served  as  quenelles,  or  plainly  stewed  with  vegctablefi 
for  the  former  meal. 

Sauce  Milanaise  (given  at  the  bottom  of  page  83)  should 
accompany  this  entree. 

4. — Braise   the   loin   attentively,  strain  and  thicken  the 
gravy   in   which   it   was   cooked,  and 

braised"  ""^  °'''"''°  «^^'^'^  ^^'^*^  ^'^  currant  jelly,  mashed 
potatoes  delicately  browned  in  the 
oven,  and  French  beans  (properly  trimmed,  and  cooked 
in  the  jar,  remember)  over  which  a  little  boiling  cream 
has  been  poured. 

5. — The  only   pai-t  of  a   teal   which   the  generality  of 
people   eat  at  a  dinner  party  is  the 

^Jeal  fillets  Wyvovu'e        i^^.^.^^^        r^^^^^  -^  ^^^  ^-^^   ^^  p-^j^   ^^^ 
scantily  covered  back,  legs,  and  wings ; 


ME^'U  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX.  447 

besides,  bj  the  time  tlie  game  reaches  you,  jour  hunger 
is  so  far  appeased  that  you  feel  inclined  for  a  slice,  rather 
than  a  whole  bird.  Why  waste  the  part  of  the  bird  that 
is  never  eaten  ?  I  propose  therefore  to  cut  off  the  breasts, 
of  the  teal,  whole,  bones  and  all,  and  to  divide  each  in 
half ;  to  marinade  these  pieces  all  day  in  a  little  oil,  lime 
juice,  sliced  onion,  and  sweet  herbs,  then  to  grill  them 
over  a  bright  clear  fire,  and  to  send  them  up  piping  hot, 
and  full  of  juice  straight  from  the  gridiron.  Early  in  the 
day,  when  I  trimmed  the  breasts,  I  would  throw  every 
atom  of  the  backs,  legs,  giblets,  &c.,  into  a  sauce-pan  with 
the  usual  concomitants  of  gravy  making,  and  distil  their 
essence  by  gentle  simmering.  This  I  would  strain  when 
done.  I  would  then  pick  all  the  meat  from  the  fragments, 
pound  it  a  la  ptirSe^  and  add  it,  with  butter  and  flour  thick- 
ening, to  the  gravy  of  the  bones,  judiciously  introducing  a 
tea-spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lime 
juice,  some  caramel  colouring  and  a  glass  of  red  wine,  or 
Madeira,  with  a  few  drops  of  '  tabasco'  or  chilli  vinegar  to 
finish  with.  This  sauce  I  would  send  round  in  a  boat,  as 
hot  as  possible,  following  the  grilled  breasts. 

Tomatoes    in    tbe  6.— For    this   entremets  de  legumes, 

Italian  way.  please  turn  to  page  159. 

7.— Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  with  a  few  drops  of 

lemon  essence  and  sugar  to  taste ;  then 
Queen  Mab  pudding.  .  i    i   ^    -x        j.        i  i       t>      ^ 

strain,  and  let  it  get   cold.     Beat  up 

six  yolks,  and  pour  the  flavoured  milk  upon  them.     Put 

this  into  the  bain-marie,  and  stir  gently  over  the  fire  until 

it  thickens.     Whip  it  well.   Dissolve  an  ounce  of  gelatine 

in  a  little  milk,  add  it  to  the  above,  and  stir  the  custard 

until  nearly  cold,  then  pour  the  mixture  by   degrees  into  a 

buttered  mould,  adding  two  ounces  of  preserved  cherries 

or  finely  chopped  apricots  and  one  ounce  of  citron  peel  or 

preserved  ginger  cut  very  small  in  layers,  setting  them 

carefully,  and  when  the  mould  quite  set,  turn  it  out- 


448  MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX. 

8. — I  gave  you  a  chocolate  souffle  in  Menu  No.  16  ;  this,  is 

^^    .„         „,,  an  entremets  sucre  of  the  same  family, 

\amlla  souffle.  ,     ^  ^    „,         _   ,.  .    / 

but  composcdor  less  delicate  matenals. 

Mix  together  in  a  sauce-jDan  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  a 

small  piece  of  fresh  butter,  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  and 

a  dessert-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar  :  stir  this  over  the 

fire  to  get  thoroughly  warm  but  no  more  ;  then  put  it  on 

one  side  to  get  cool,  stiii'ing  to  prevent  any  scum  forming 

on  the  surface.     When  quite  cold,  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of 

four  eggs,  add  a  few  di'ops  of  vanilla  flavom^ing,  mix  this 

thoroughly,  then  throw  in  a  table-spoonful  of  any  liqueur 

you  may  have  open,  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs  whipped  to 

a  froth  :  mix  the  whole  together,  pour  it  into  a  souffle  tin, 

and  bake  in  an  oven  at  moderate  heat.     Serve  the  moment 

your  eye  tells  you  that  the  souffl*'  is  ready. 


Potted  prawns. 

Potted  prawns,  home-made,  ought  to  be  oftener  seen  at 
Madras,  than  they  are.  Whether  eaten  with  cheese, 
spread  on  toast,  or  at  office  in  the  form  of  a  sandwich, 
this  preparation  is  most  acceptable.  Select  some  nice 
sized  prawns,  boil  them,  pick  out  very  carefully  all  the 
grit,  and  that  black  line  which  runs  straight  down  the 
back  and  underneath  every  prawn  :  wash  them  afterwards 
in  cold  water,  and  pour  a  lot  of  water  over  them  as  they 
lie  on  the  top  of  your  sieve.  When  satisfied  that  you  have 
thoroughly  cleaned  them,  dry  them,  and  toss  them  in  a  little 
melted  butter  in  a  frying-pan  until  they  have  absorbed  the 
butter  ;  next  pass  through  the  mincing  machine  ;  pound 
them  thoroughly  in  the  mortar,  and  lastly  press  them 
through  the  wire  sieve.  Season  the  paste  so  obtained 
with  salt,  white  and  red  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  anchovy 
sauce,  a  little  pounded  mace,  and  work  the  whole  together 
with  some  nice  freshly  made  butter  till  thoroughly  incorpo- 


MENU  FOR  A  PARTY  OF  SIX.  449 

rated  :  set  it  in  an  earthenware  jar,   and  pour  a  spoonful 
of  melted  butter  over  the  surface. 


Fritot  de  volaille- 

This  simple  dish  should  be  noted  : — 

Cut  up  a  well  grown  chicken  as  if  for  fricassee  :  marinade 
the  pieces  in  salad  oil  with  the  juice  of  a  lime,  an  onion 
sliced  in  rings,  pepper  and  salt.  Half  an  hour  before 
serving,  take  out  the  onion,  and  wipe  the  pieces  of  chicken 
on  a  cloth,  then  dip  them  in  milk,  flour  them  well,  and  fry- 
in  plenty  of  hot  fat  accelerating  the  heat  during  the  pro- 
cess. When  the  pieces  are  cooked,  having  been  fried  a 
golden  yellow  colour,  pile  them  on  a  napkin  garnished 
with  crisply  fried  parsley.  A  nice  sauce  should  accompany 
in  a  boat,  bread  sauce,  poivrade,  or  Robert. 


Nouilles. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour ;  put  in  on  the  paste 
board  ;  make  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  the  flour ;  break  three 
eggs  in  it ;  add  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt ;  mix  all  into  a  nice  smooth  paste.  Roll  the  paste 
out  very  thin,  say  about  the  sixteenth  of  an  inch,  let  it 
dry,  then  cut  it  into  ribbons  an  inch  and  a  half  broad ; 
put  five  of  these  ribbons  above  one  another,  sprinkling  a 
little  flour  between  each ;  then  with  a  knife  cut  through 
them  crosswise,  making  thin  shreds  like  vermicelli ; 
shake  them  in  a  cloth  with  a  little  flour  to  prevent  them 
adhering  to  one  another,  then  throw  them  into  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water  for  six  minutes.  Use  nouilles  exactly 
as  you  would  maccaroni. 


i\/:Eisrxj     3NJO-    -5^: 


For  a  liffle  home  dinner. 

Potagc  a  la  Crocy. 

Pomfret  sauce  ravigote. 

Poitrine  de  mouton  ii  la  Wy vein. 

Puree  de  pommes  de  terre. 

Aubcrofincs  au  ^ratin. 

Blanc-manger  a  la  vanille. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

Cafe  noir. 

1. — For  the  soup,  read  the   receipt 
already  given,  (page  48). 

Pomfret  and  ravi-  2. — Boil  a  little  pomfrct,  and  serve 

gote  sauce.  it  with  sauce  ravigote,  (page  85). 

3. — Choose  a  nice  breast  of  mutton,  bone  it,  and  put  it 
en  marinade  all  day  in  oil,  vinegar, 
la  Wyvtu.^  '"""''"  ''  chopped  parsley  and  shallot.  When 
wanted,  take  it  up,  dry  it  with  a  clean 
cloth.  Parboil,  and  when  cold  again,  bread-crumb  it  for 
ordinary  baking,  slipping  a  good  slice  of  boiled  bacon 
under  the  flap,  or  outer  strip  of  meat.  Meanwhile  make 
a  little  broth  with  the  bones,  and  any  scraps  obtained  from 
trimming  the  breast  into  shape,  set  it  to  cool,  and  skim  off 
the  fat.     Boil  suflScient  maccaroni,  or  nouilles,  for  two 


Carrot  soup. 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.        451 

people,  and  when  done,  dizain  off  the  water,  and  leave  the 
maccaroni  in  the  hot  sauce-pan  till  wanted.  Take  a  roomy 
sauce  pan,  and  in  it  fry  a  sweet  onion  cut  into  shreds  in 
an  ounce  of  butter  till  it  begins  to  turn  yellow.  Cut  up 
a  dozen  tomatoes  into  quarters,  and  put  them  into  the 
sauce-pan  with  the  butter  and  onions  :  stew  gently  till 
done  :  turn  them  out  upon  a  hair-sieve,  work  the  tomatoes 
through  the  sieve  ;  put  the  pulp  which  comes  through 
into  a  sauce-pan,  with  a  little  melted  butter  and  flour  pre- 
viously prepared  to  receive  it,  and  moisten  the  pulp  with 
the  broth  you  made  from  the  scraps,  till  you  have  a  nice 
creamy  puree,  season  with  a  little  salt  and  black  pepper, 
and  keep  the  sauce  thoroughly  hot  after  it  has  boiled  up. 
Bake  the  breast,  and  dish  up  as  follows  : — place  the  mac- 
caroni first  upon  a  very  hot  dish,  put  the  baked  breast  of 
mutton  upon  it,  and  pour  your  hot  toinato  puree  over  the 
whole. 

4. — Mash   the   potatoes   thoroughly,     and   Avork   them 

,,    ,    ,  through    a   wire    sieve    to    get    them 

MasLed  potatoes.  -n  i 

smooth,   add  a  little  milk,    as  much 

butter  as  you  can  spare,   and  a  little  salt :  form  with  the 

wooden   spoon,   and  brown  the   outside  in  the  oven.     Do 

not  let  your  cook  waste  an  egg  in  endeavouring  to  glaze 

the  outside  of  the  mould  !     A  well  boiled  sweet  onion  may 

be  mashed  with  the  potatoes  if  not  objected  to. 

5. — N'ow  this  is  well   worthy  of  a  trial : — Boil  a  couple 

of  nice  brinjals  till  tender,  cut  them  in 
Briujals  an  gratin.         -111.1  j  ,    ,  i 

halves  lengthways,  and  scoop  out  the 

inside  with  a  silver  spoon,  pass  it  through  the  sieve  to  get 
rid  of  the  seeds,  and  put  it  into  a  bowl :  butter  the  now 
empty  cases,  or  pods  :  stir  into  the  inside  part  that  you 
scooped  out  a  good  spoonful  of  cream,  and  season  with  white 
pepper,  salt,  and  few  drops  of  anchovy  sauce.  Mix  thorough- 
ly, and  then  re-fill  your  cases.     Shake  over  the  surface  a 


452         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 


layer  of  grated  Parmesan  from  tlie  bottle,  or  any  dry  mild 
clieese  that  will  grate.  Bake  for  seven  or  eight  minutes, 
and  serve.  Under  the  more  ostentatious  name  of  "  Les 
aubergines  au  g  rat  in,"  this  lowly  dish  might  fine  favour 
even  at  the  dainty  meal  of  an  epicure. 

6._Blanch  ten  bitter  almonds  and  two  ounces  of  shelled 
sweet  almonds  ;  pound  them  to  a  paste 
Blnncmange  with      ^yith  a  little  rosc  water,  dilute  with  a 
breakfast  cupful  of  milk,  let  the  liquid 
stand  for  an  horn-  and  then  strain   it.      Put  into  a  pint  of 
fresh  milk    five  ounces  of    sugar,  and  vanilla  essence  to 
taste  ;  pour  it  into  an  enamelled  sauce-pan,  and  boil  slowly 
till  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  then  stir  in  an  ounce  of  dis- 
solved gelatine  and  pour  the  liquid  through  a  strainer  into 
a  basin.     Add  the  almond  liquor,  and  a  cofFee-cupful  of 
cream,   pour  the   mixture  into   a  mould,  set  it  in  ice,   and 
turn  it  out  when  firmly  set.  Stewed  prunes  (cold)   or  any 
cold  stewed  fruit  or  jam  may  accompany. 


Prunes  a  la  Chasseur. 

A  dish  for  dessert  that  is  generally   speaking  popular. 

Buy  a  glass  jar  of  the  best  French 
braudy."^'  '"  ""^^''^      plums,  (prunes)  and  a  bottle  of  good 

cherry  brandy,  take  out  a  few  plums, 
and  pour  as  much  cherry  brandy  into  the  jar  as  the  plums 
will  admit :  the  next  day  you  can  add  more,  for  the  plums 
Avill  absorb  the  brandy  ;  and  so  on  for  a  day  or  two. 
Finally  cork  it  down  for  a  fortnight  or  so,  then  serve  at 
dessert.  Never  let  the  jar  be  empty,  but  re-fill  it  as  the 
plums  are  eaten.  If  slightly  stewed  first,  the  prunes 
absorb  the  liqueur  more  rapidly. 


iviEKTXJ    :]Nro.    :^^:2^xx. 


For  a  little  home  dinner. 

Potage  a  la  Palestine. 

Cronstades  de  grandes  crevettes, 

Perdreaux  a  la  soubise. 

CEufs  a  la  Suisse. 

"  Pudding"  a  la  Duchesse. 

Fromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 


1. — This  is  an  especially  favourite  soup  with  those  who 
Jerusalem  artichoke      ^^®  fond  of  the  flavoiu'  of  the  Jerusalem 
soup-  artichoke. 

There  are  two  methods  of  composing  it :  to  wit,  mi 
maigre  (with  milk)  and  au  gras  (with  stock)  :  I  take  the 
latter  as  the  commoner  form.  Having  washed,  peeled, 
and  boiled  a  nice  dish  of  artichokes,  pass  them  through 
the  sieve  ;  save  the  pulp  so  obtained,  until  your  daily 
allowance  of  soup  meat  has  yielded  sufficient  nice  clear 
stock  for  the  puree.  Now  proceed  to  amalgamate  the 
two  in  the  proper  way,  by  melting  an  ounce  of  butter  at 
the  bottom  of  a  sauce-pan  first,  incorporating  therewith  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  and  after  that  has  been  done, 
stock,  and  pulp  of  artichoke   by  degrees  until  you  have 

48 


454        MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

while,  and  when  the  'puree  comes  to  the  boil,  it  will  be 
ready  to  serve.  On  its  way  to  the  table,  like  all  purees, 
it  may  be  enriched  by  a  table- spoonful  of  cream,  or  a  little 
fresh  milk  into  which  the  yolk  of  an  eg^  has  been  stirred, 
but  the  addition  is  not  essential.  An  old  fowl  makes  a 
good  stock  for  this  soup,  if  assisted  by  a  slice  or  two,  or  a 
bone,  of  bacon,  or  ham.  Fried  croutons  of  bread  should  be 
handed  round  with  it. 

Let  those  who  rejoice  in  a  dairy  try  the  recipe  au  maigre 
thus  : — Take  as  much  milk  as  you  want  soup,  and  boil  in 
it  twenty  pepper  corns,  some  parsley, and  a  sweet  onion. 
When  thoroughly  flavoured,  sti^in  the  milk,  mingle  the 
pulp  of  the  artichoke  with  it,  as  descHbed  for  stock,  and 
finish  it  off  in  the  same  manner  :  the  cream  must  be 
added  in  this  case. 

2. — Choose  two  or  three  small  dinner  rolls  which  have 

^  ,  been   baked   in   tins,    and   will   stand 

Prawn  croustades.  -in 

upright,     bcoop   out   all  the   crumb, 

and  fry  the  cases  so  obtained  a  golden  yellow  colour  in 
melted  butter.  Drain  them.  Now  prepare  enough  boiled 
prawns  to  fill  them,  cut  them  into  quarter  inch  pieces, 
toss  them  in  melted  butter,  with  a  little  mace,  pepper  and 
salt ;  fill  your  cases,  moistening  the  salpicon  with  a  little 
white  sauce,  shake  a  little  bread-crumb  over  the  surface 
of  each,  place  them  on  a  buttered  baking  tin,  and  heat 
them  for  five  minutes  in  the  oven,  serve  as  soon  as  the 
tops  take  colour.  This  recipe  can  be  followed,  substitut- 
ing canned  prawn.«,  shrimps,  or  lobster. 

3. — This  is  a  capital  dish  for  Darby  when  it  pleases  him 
to  dine  cosily  with  his  Joan.  Prepare 
bife'sauci''  '^''^  '"''■  ^^^  partridges  as  for  roasting  :  fill  each 
of  them  with  a  chopped  Bombay  onion 
(previously  boiled  in  milk)  seasoned  with  spiced  pepper, 
salt,  and  rolled  in  a  slice  of  boiled  bacon.  Make  a  broth 
with  the  giblets  of  the  birds,  any  scraps  you  may  have,  a 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.        455 

slice  of  lean  bacon,  an  onion  cut  into  quarters,  a  few  pepper 
corns,  and  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  :  when  you  have 
got  a  broth  to  your  mind,  simmer  the  partridges  therein 
until  perfectly  tender.  When  done,  (they  will  take  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour)  take  them  out,  and  drain  them, 
replacing  them  in  the  hot  pan  in  which  they  were  done, 
with  the  cover  on.  N'ow  strain  the  liquor  in  which  the 
birds  have  been  cooked,  and  with  it  make  a  rich  souhise 
sauce  as  follows  : — Simmer  four  large  Bombay  onions  in 
milk  till  tender,  drain  them,  chop  them  up  very  fine,  pass 
them  through  the  sieve,  and  proceed  with  melted  butter, 
and  the  stock  aforesaid,  to  make  a  rich  puree ;  when  boiling 
hot,  dish  the  birds,  pour  the  onion  puree  over  them,  and 
serve,  garnished  with  curls  of  crisply  fried  bacon.  The 
onions  should,  of  course,  be  prepared  beforehand  to  prevent 
delay :  the  yuree  ought  not  to  occupy  more  than  ten 
minutes  in  preparation.  A  spoonful  of  cream  should  be 
added  to  it  if  possible. 

4. — Butter  a  little  pie-dish  well,  strew  a  good  layer  of 
mild  grated  cheese  at  the  bottom  of  it, 
pour  over  the  cheese  a  coffee-cupful 
of  cream,  break  four  fresh  eggs  very  carefully,  and  pass 
them  into  the  cream  without  breaking  them  :  dust  a  light 
layer  of  cheese  over  the  surface,  bake  for  about  seven 
m.inutes  (till  the  surface  slightly  colours)  and  serve.  The 
eggs  ought  not  to  be  done  hard  :  the  dish  is  not  a  pudding, 
but  eggs,  just  set,  in  a  creamy  sauce  with  a  little  delicate 
cheese  flavouring.  Some  people  call  this  dish  "  (Eufs  a 
la  Suisse  y 

6. — Grate  four  ounces  of  fine  stale  crumbs,  put  them 

in  a  basin,  and  pour  over  them  half  a 
Diichesse  pudding.  •    ,     jt  ^     -i-  -n  "     xi      i 

pint  of  boiling  milk :  cover  the  basin 

with  a  plate,  and  let  the  liquid  soak  into  the  crumbs,  and 

get  cold  :  now  stir  into  the  basin  four  ounces  more  of 

used  all  you  have.     The  spoon  must  be  kept  going  all  the 


456        MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 


crumbs,  four  ounces  of  dry,  finely  minced  suet,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  three  ounces  of  crushed  ratafias,  three  ounces 
of  candied  peel  sliced  thin,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
essence.  Next  whisk  five  eggs  well,  with  four  ounces  of 
sugar,  continue  to  beat  them  together  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  then  pour  them  into  the  basin  with  the  other 
ingredients,  and  mix  well ;  turn  all  into  a  buttered  basin, 
and  boil  for  two  hours.  This  will  be  enough  for  a  quart 
basin  or  mould  ;  half  of  everything  will  be  sufficient  for 
the  home  dinner. 

Sauce  a  la  Careme  may  accompany  the  pudding,  made 
in  this  way.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  two 
ounces  of  sugar  and  a  claret-glassful  of  Madeira,  when  Avell 
mixed,  set  the  sauce  in  the  hain-marie  and  let  it  thicken 
like  a  custard.  When  smooth  and  creamy,  serve  it  in  a 
boat,  hot.  This  is  a  good  sauce  with  any  pudding.  You 
can  use  Marsala  instead  of  Madeira  just  as  effectively. 


Vanilla  cream  ice- 

This  is  a  simple  recipe  for  a  delicious  ice  that  will  not 
be  found  expensive.  Mix  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  well 
with  a  pint  of  fresh  milk,  strain  it,  sweeten  it  to  taste, 
flavour  it  with  vanilla,  and  set  it  in  a  sauce-pan  in  your 
hain-marie  to  thicken.  When  you  have  got  a  nice  thick 
custard,  whip  it  well,  let  it  get  cold,  pour  it  into  your  ice 
pot  and  freeze  it.  It  will  turn  out  rich  and  creamy,  not  a 
bit  like  the  milk-and-water  ices  that  one  so  often  mourns 
over. 

A  coffee-cupful  of  whipped  cream  may  be  added,  if  a 
superlatively  nice  ice  be  required  ;  wait  until  the  custard 
has  nearly  frozen,  then  stir  the  cream  in,  and  work  it  well 
for  a  minute  or  two.  Half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved 
and  added  to  the  custard,  and  two  ounces  of  chopped  apri- 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER,        457 

cot,  greengage,  citron,  or  preserved  ginger  stirred  in  with 
the  coffee-cupful  of  cream,  will  give  you  a  nice  iced 
'pudding. 


Homard  a  rAmericaine- 

Open  a  tin  of  lobster :  choose  all  the  larger  pieces  for 
the  dish  you  are  going  to  make,  and  put  all  the  mashed 
fragments  aside  to  be  used  in  bouchees  or  croquettes  for 
some  other  meal.  Having  washed  and  drained  the  firm 
pieces  aforesaid,  dry  them,  and  cut  them  up  into  quarter 
inch  collops,  and  pile  them  in  the  centre  of  a  dish  that  will 
stand  the  oven.  N'ow  cut  up  a  good  sized  Bombay  onion, 
fry  it  in  an  ounce  of  butter,  adding  off  the  fire  a  sherry 
glass  of  chablis  or  sauterne  :  when  the  onion  seems  cooked, 
stir  in  a  breakfast-cupful  of  rich  thick  brown  sauce,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  tomato  puree ;  add  a  strong  suspi- 
cion of  Nepaul  pepper,  and  reduce  the  mixture  for  five 
minutes.  When  nice  and  thick,  pour  the  sauce  over  the 
lobster,  put  the  dish  into  the  oven,  and  when  thoroughly 
hot,  serve. 


^^<:^Q^^iU^^ 


oo 


I^EHNTXJ     isrcD.     I^dXlIII. 


For  a  little  home  dinner. 

Puree  de  rognons. 

Ecrevisse  de  mer  an  gratin. 

"  Bifteck"  a  la  jardiniere. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  duchessc. 

Bcignets  d'aubergines. 

"  Pudding"  a  la  "  Sir  Watkin." 

Fromage,  hors  d'ocuvres. 

Dessert, 

1. — Take  your  daily  allowance  of  soup  meat  as  usual  and 
make  a  strong  consomme  with  it.  Buy 
six  mutton  kidneys  and  treat  them  as 
follows  : — Wash  them,  dry  them,  slit  them  in  halves,  and 
plunge  them  immediately  into  boiling  water  well  salted  ; 
let  them  remain  in  this  bath  for  one  minute  only,  take 
them  out,  and  dry  them  in  a  napkin.  This  is  an  infallible 
recipe  for  the  removal  of  that  peculiar  taste  which  many 
people  dislike  in  kidneys ;  it  should  be  followed  always, 
no  matter  how  you  intend  to  cook  them.  Well,  having 
thus  blanched  the  kidneys,  proceed  to  boil  them  gently 
with  some  dried  thyme,  marjoram,  and  a  bag  containing 
spice,  &c.,  till  they  are  very  tender.  Take  them  out,  and 
pound  them  in  the  mortar,  with  one  well  washed  anchovy  : 
when  sufficiently  pounded,  pass  the  paste  through  a  wire 
sieve  to  get  rid  of  fibre,  gi'istle,  &c.  When  ready,  place 
the  consomme  in  a  bowl  handy,  and  keep  the  kidney  paste 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.        459 

ready  in  a  soup  plate.  Take  a  roomy  sauce-pan,  melt  an 
ounce  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  it  over  the  fire,  stir  in  a 
table-spoonful  of  flour  ;  when  nice  and  creamy,  add  a  cup- 
ful of  consomme,  stirring  vigorously,  and  continue  to  add 
consomme  and  kidney  paste  by  degrees,  working  them 
well  together,  till  you  have  used  them  up  ;  now  let  the 
puree  come  to  the  boil ;  add  a  glass  of  port,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  red  currant  jelly,  a  tea-spoonful  of  good  vinegar,  and 
sufficient  caramel  coloring  to  give  the  soup  a  warm  brown 
tint,  stir  well  for  a  minute  over  the  fire,  and  serve  with 
croutons  of  fried  bread. 

A  coffee-cupful  of  boiling  cream,  or  a  coffee-cupful  of 
milk  in  which  the  yolk  of  an  egg  has  been  stirred,  may 
be  added  to  this  soup  off  the  fire  for  additional  richness. 
-It  will  be  found  so  like  a  game  soup  that  many  will  doubt 
its  having  any  connection  with  kidneys.  After  a  day's 
hard  work,  a  rich  sustaining  soup  of  this  kind  is  often 
very  acceptable. 

2. — Choose  a  nice  crab,   have  it  boiled,  cleaned,   and 

picked  :  place  the  meat  in  a  soup  plate. 
Baked  crab.  ,       .         . .         -i      ,      n   -k  a     ^ 

and  give  it  a  dust  oi  black  pepper. 

Boil  till  tender  sufficient  maccaroni  to  line  the  bottom  of 

a  small  pie-dish,  and  grate  a  tea-cupful  of  mild  cheese. 

Now  rub  the  bottom  of  the  pie-dish  with  butter,  place  the 

maccaroni  thereon,  and  pour  a  coffee-cupful  of  well  made 

white  sauce  over  the  maccaroni.     Shake  a  dust  of  grated 

cheese  over  its  surface.     Next  place  the  crab  meat,  well 

worked  with  melted  butter,  over  the  maccaroni,  and,  as  you 

arrange  it,  dust  it  with  black  pepper.     Over  the  crab  dredge 

a  nice  dressing  of  the  grated  cheese,   about  one-eighth  of 

an  inch  deep,   and  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  the 

surface.     Bake  till  the  top  takes  colour,   and  serve.     No 

sauce  is  necessary  with  this,  but  if  you  like,  you  can  send 

round  a  sauce  piquante,  or  any  plain  sharp  relish  of  that 

class. 


460  MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 


3. — Vegetables  are  sometimes  scarce  at  Madras,  when 
our  variety  for  this  dish  may  be  some- 
Beefsteak  stewed      ^yhat  meac:re  ;  but  we  can  always  s^et 
with  vegetables.  ^       ,  •  r    •     r^  i 

delicious  Bombay  onions,  tair  French 

beans,  and  carrots.  Turnips  taste  too  strong  late  in  the 
season,  so  I  would  not  advise  yoiu*  using  them  then. 
Choose  a  nice  steak,  fry  it,  to  begin  with  in  butter  till  it 
turns  a  nice  brown  colour  on  both  sides,  then  put  it  into 
youi*  stew-pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  (or  broth)  one 
Bombay  onion  cut  into  quarters,  a  good  handful  of  French 
beans,  a  plant  of  celery  and  two  carrots  sliced,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  walnut  ketchup,  a  salt-spoonful  of  sugar,  a 
glass  of  Marsala,  pepper,  and  salt.  Cover  the  pan,  and 
stew  the  steak  ever  so  gently  till  the  meat  parts  easily 
when  tested  by  the  fork.  Then  lift  it  out,  strain  the  gravy, 
place  the  steak  on  a  hot  silver  dish,  arrange  the  vegetables 
cut  up  into  very  small  dice  tastefully  over  it,  thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  butter  and  flour,  add  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  Marsala,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  steak. 

4. — With   the  above,  try  your   potatoes  in  this   way  : — 

mash  them  up  with  a  little  good  milk, 
Potato  duchesses.  i     , ,  j     j.-i  n  r    j. 

butter,  and   the  yolks  of    two  eggs ; 

add  pepper,  salt,    some  grated  nutmeg,    and  some  parsley, 

or  celery  leaves  chopped  fine  (a  few  marjoram  leaves  are  an 

improvement).     Roll  the  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of   a 

pippin,  bmsh  them  over  with  a  beaten  egg,  set  them  on  a 

buttered  tin,  and  bake  for  a  few  minutes  till  they  turn  a 

o-olden  yellow  colour.     They  look  pretty,  and  taste  nice. 

They  may  also  be  formed  somewhat  smaller,  the  size  of 
racquet  balls,  and  fried  a  golden  brown  in  melted  butter. 

5. — This  is  the  American  method  of  serving  egg-plant, 

and  is  a  very  good  dish  for  a  change. 

Brinjal  fritters.  -ox,-,  -u   •    •    i      •       .oU 

Parboil   some  young  brinjals  in  salt 

and  water,  let  them  get  cold,  and  slice  them  in  longitudinal 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.         461 


pieces  of  a  convenient  size  and  thickness  for  fritters — two 
inches  long,  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Pick  out  the 
seeds.  Prepare  the  batter  I  have  previously  described, 
dipping  the  pieces  of  brinjal  in  it,  and  frying  them  a  crisp 
golden  yellow  in  abundance  of  fat.  Drain  them  quite  dry, 
dust  a  little  salt  over  them,  and  serve  them  with  "  Dutch 
sauce"  (q.  v.  page  89). 

6, — Mix  together   in    a  bowl    two  ounces  of   chopped 
candied    peel,    four    ounces    of    suet 
Sir  Watkin's  pud-      finely  minced,  four  ounces  fine  white 
crumbs,  one    table-spoonful  of    flour, 
three  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  apricot  jam,  a  liqueur- 
glass  of  cura9oa,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  milk,  and  four 
fresh  eggs. — When  thoroughly  mixed,  put  the  ingredients 
into  a  buttered  mould,  and  steam  for  three  hours. 

Apricot  sauce  should  accompany  the  pudding,  made  as 
follows  : — Put  half  a  pot  of  apricot  jam  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  or 
Madeira;  boil  together,  stirring  well,  then  strain,  and 
serve. 

Maccaroni  au  gratin. 

Many  fail  to  hit  off  this  homely  dish  as  nicely  as  they 
could  wish.     The  following  is  a  simple  recipe  : — 

Take  two  ounces  of  maccaroni,  throw  it  into  boiling 
water,  with  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper, 
boil,  and  as  soon  as  tender,  drain  it  well ;  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan one  ounce  of  butter,  mix  it  well  with  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  flour,  moisten  with  four  table-spoonfuls  of  gravy 
(saved  from  the  soup  gravy),  and  a  coffee-cupful  of  cream, 
or  milk  enriched  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  add  two  ounces 
of  grated  cheese,  one  table-spoonful  of  mustard,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  :  place  the  maccaroni  in  a  shallow  well 
buttered  pie-dish,  by  degrees  pouring  your  mixture,  made 

49 


462         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

as  above,  amongst  it ;  dust  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese 
over  the  surface,  and  as  soon  as  it  browns  nicely  in  the 
oven,  send  it  to  table.  Maccaroni  au  gratin  should  be 
quite  moist,  and  thoroughly  impregnated  with  the  flavoui' 
of  cheese :  the  presence  of  mustard  should  also  be  per- 
ceptible. 


Chaud-froid  de  filets  de  foie  gras- 

This  is  a  very  nice  cold  entree.  Open  a  tin  of /o/e  gras, 
and  slice  it  very  carefully  in  slices  about  half  an  inch 
thick  ;  out  of  these  slices  trim  some  nicely  shaped  fillets, 
Cashraeer  shawl  patterns,  or  ovals.  Put  them  on  a  flat 
dish,  and  mask  them  with  chicken  chaud-froid  glaze. 
When  the  glaze  has  set,  trim  each  fillet  neatly,  and  set 
them  in  a  circle  with  their  masked  sides  outwards  upon  a 
socle  of  ground  rice  which  should  be  spread  with  butter 
for  them  to  adhere  to  it.  Points  d'asperges,  flageolets,  or  a 
macedoine,  moistened  with  pure  cream,  should  fill  the 
centre  of  the  circle.     Serve  very  cold. 


:vrE3i^xj    i\ro„    :2^:^ii-\r. 


For  a  little  home  dinner. 

Consomme  de  laitue. 

Pomfret  a  la  Normande. 

Piece  de  boeuf  en  aspic. 

Courge-a-la-moelle  au  gratin. 

Pain  de  groseilles. 

Eromage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert, 

1, — Make  a  clear  consomme  as  usual,  and  treat  the  let- 
tuce in  this  way  : — Pick  and  wash  one 
leuice'  ^^"^  ^'^^  l^vge,  or  two  small  cabbage  lettuces, 
dip  them  into  boiling  water  for  a  few 
minutes,  take  them  out,  cut  them  into  quarters  :  tie  them 
together  again :  butter  a  stew-pan,  place  a  couple  of  slices 
of  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  lay  the  lettuces  on  them, 
and  cover  them  with  stock :  add  two  cloves,  an  onion,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  one  of  salt,  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  dried  herbs.  Simmer  the  lettuces  until  done,  take  them 
out,  drain  them,  and  when  dry,  cut  them  into  shreds  with 
a  dessert-knife  :  put  the  shredded  pieces  at  the  bottom  of 
your  tureen,  and  pour  the  consomme,  boiling  hot,  over  them. 
Serve.  One  average  lettuce  will  be  found  enough  for  four 
basins.  The  broth  in  which  it  is  cooked  can  be  strained, 
and  added  to  the  soup  :  see,  however,  that  it  is  clear. 


464         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

2. — Clean  and  trim  a  fine  pomfret ;  draw  off  the  dark 
skin  and  detach  the  flesh  from  the  bone 

m^r''mi".e'.''  """■  ^^^"^  ^  ^^^^V  knife  :  take  the  two  sides 
SO  obtained,  and  season  them  on  their 
respective  inner  sides  (which  you  must  first  brush  over 
with  a  well  beaten  ^^^  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  finely- 
chopped  parsley,  and  some  minced  mushroom,  lay  them 
together  again  :  the  fish  resuming  its  former  appearance. 
Now  butter  a  flat  silver  dish,  or  one  that  will  stand  the 
fire,  strew  over  the  butter  some  minced  onion,  place  the 
fish  thereon,  moisten  it  with  a  little  chablis,  or  a  light 
white  wine  of  that  class,  and  a  cupful  of  broth,  and  bake 
it  in  the  oven.  Whilst  baking,  make  a  good  veloute,  in 
which  you  should  pour  the  liquor  of  a  tin  of  oysters,  and 
use  the  broth  made  from  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the 
pomfret.  When  the  fish  is  nearly  done,  take  it  out  of  the 
oven  ;  pour  the  liquor  from  its  dish  into  your  veloute  : 
garnish  the  fish  with  the  oysters  of  the  tin  previously 
mentioned,  and  some  black  Leicestershire  mushrooms,  over 
all  pour  your  veloute — which  should  be  nice  and  thick, — 
set  the  dish  in  the  oven  again  for  five  minutes,  and  serve 
with  croutons  of  bread,  buttered  on  each  side,  and  coloured 
a  pale  brown  in  the  oven.  This  will  be  found  an  excellent 
dish — far  from  difl&cult  :  veloute  remember,  is  a  rich 
creamy  white  sauce. 

3. — Tie  a  nice  piece  of  fresh  brisket  of  beef  into  a  com- 
pact shape  and  lard  it  with  plenty  of 
jeUyltcowf  ^""^  '"^  f ^*  ^^con  ■•  braise  it  in  stock,  and  vege- 
tnbles  with  a  glass  of  white  wine  : 
when  done,  take  it  out,  remove  the  string,  and  place  the 
meat  in  an  oblong  shape  with  a  heavy  weight  upon  it  ; 
when  thoroughly  cold,  and  set,  trim  it  all  round  with  a 
sharp  knife,  glaze  it  with  its  own  gravy  reduced,  and  set 
it  in  aspic  in  the  ice-box.  A  plain  oblong  mould  should 
be  selected.     When  you  turn  it  out,  garnish  with  hard- 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.        465 

boiled  eggs,  and  parsley,  and  serve  with  the  best  salad  you 
can  devise,  and  a  good  mayonnaise  sauce.  Or,  the  beef 
may  be  served  hot,  with  its  own  gravy  thickened,  and 
garnished  with  glazed  onions. 

This    recipe  may  be   followed  with  a  home-cnred  ox- 
tongue :  boil  the  tongue,  of  course,  you  cannot  braise  it. 

4. — Slice  up  a  cold  boiled   (not  over-boiled)  vegetable 
marrow.     Butter  the  bottom  of  a  pie- 
Vegetable    marrow      ^^^^        i^^^  ^  1     ^^  of  gji^gg  thereon, 
au  gratin.  . 

grate  a  little  mild  cheese  over  them, 

place  another  layer  of  slices  above  the  first  and  strew 
grated  cheese  over  that  also.  Now  melt  some  butter  in  a 
small  sauce-pan,  and  add  a  little  gravy  to  it,  together  with 
some  finely  powdered  cheese,  when  you  have  enough  to 
half  cover  your  layers  of  marrow,  pour  the  liquid  round 
them,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  or  so  in  a  fast  oven.  Salt 
and  pepper  should  be  dusted  over  each  layer,  before  the 
cheese  gratings  are  added. 

This  is  a  simple  yet  effective  entremets  sucre  suggested 
to  me  by  a  Madras  Gouffe.    Tin'n  out  a 

beS*^  °^  ^°^'^"  ^^"^^^^  ^^  gooseberries,  sweeten  them 
to  taste  in  their  own  syrup.  Melt  an 
ounce  of  gelatine  in  water,  and  stir  into  the  basin  contain- 
ing the  fruit ;  now  place  this  in  a  mould,  and  set  it  to  get 
firm  in  the  ice-box.  The  best  creamy  custards  (also  set 
in  the  ice-box)  should  go  round  in  glasses  ;  this  is  cooling, 
and  inexpensive.  A  glass  of  maraschino  or  cura9oa  may 
be  stirred  into  the  syrup  with  manifest  advantage. 


iviinisrxj    3sro. 


For  a  little  home  dinner. 

Civme  do  riz  aux  haricots  verts. 

Ragout  de  pom  fret. 

Cancton  aux  pctits  pois, 

Pommes  de  terre  nouvelles.* 

Podolong-cai  au  jus. 

"  Puddinq;"  anx  figues. 

Fromagc,  hors  d'a-uvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — ^[ake  your  stock  for  soup  as  usual.     Boil  a  tea-cup- 
ful of  rice  till  tender,  work  it  through 

Fi^i'ch  beaas!  '  ^''"^^  ^^^  ^^^^'C  =  amalgamate  the  pulp  so  ob- 
tained with  the  soup  gravy  by  butter 
and  flour  as  described  for  purees.  Cut  into  dice  a  handful 
of  jugged  French  beans,  stir  the  dice  into  the  soup  as  it 
thickens,  and  add  a  coffee-cupful  of  milk,  with  which  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  has  been  mixed,  off  the  fire,  just  before 
serving.  The  milk  of  a  few  pounded  sweet  almonds  may 
be  mixed  with  the  rice  pulp  if  the  flavour  be  liked. 

2. — This  is  a  very  useful  recipe,    practicable  with  all 

„        ,    „         -    ^       fish,  which   I   specially    commend  to 

Ragout  of  pomfret.  '  i-,    i     -i    -.  n     ^ 

notice.     Take  a  cold  boiled  pomfret 

(in  this    case)    remove  the    skin    and   cut  the    fish    into 
*  "  ilock  new  potatoes." 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DLYNER.         467 

fillets  of  a  nice  length,  dust  them  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  put  them  aside.  Slice  finely  half  a  Bombay  onion, 
and  a  small  carrot,  fry  the  slices,  till  just  colouring,  in  an 
ounce  of  butter,  now  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  water,  two- 
thirds  milk  to  one-third  water,  all  the  fish  bones  and 
trimmings,  a  few  pepper  corns,  an  anchovy,  a  blade  of 
mace,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  boil  this  up  and  simmer  it 
afterwards  till  you  have  extracted  the  flavour  of  your  in- 
gredients :  now  strain  the  liquor,  and  thicken  it  as  for  a 
sauce  blanche,  gently  heating  your  fillets  of  fish  in  the  same  : 
garnish  with  little  bits  of  red  chilli  (cut  into  dice,  and 
sprinkled  over  the  fillets)  and  serve.  The  point  here  lies 
in  the  flavouring  of  the  white  sauce  in  which  you  warm 
your  fish  :  so  do  not  omit  any  thing  I  have  mentioned. 

3. — ''  First  catch  yoiu'  duckling"  eh  ?  well,  I  know  they 

are  not  easy  to  get,  but  let  those  who 

^Duckling  and  green      j^^^p  ^^^^^  ^^  ^j^^i^  poultry  yard  try 

one  before  the  breast-bone  forms  hard. 
The  bone  should  be  scarcely  stronger  than  gristle  if  the 
bird  be  young  enough.  Roast,  and  do  not  stuff  the  duck- 
ling, let  the  basting  be  frequent,  and  froth  the  breast  up 
nicely  to  finish  with  :  serve,  accompanied  by  green  peas, 
and  cook  the  potatoes  according  to  any  of  the  recipes 
given  at  page  136. 

N.  B. — If  your  cook  have  a  habit,  as  some  have,  of  serv- 
ing the  giblets  of  the  duck  in  the  gravy  round  the  bird, 
put  an  end  to  it  forthwith ; — it  is  one  of  those  quaint 
relics  of  barbarism  which  still  cling  to  certain  Indian 
kitchens. 

4. — This  vegetable,  known  as  the  "  snake  vegetable,"  cut 
into  convenient  lengths,  boiled,  drain- 

gfavj?  *"  ^  °  "^  ^'^  ^  ^  '"^  cd,  its  seeds  removed,  and  the  pieces 
finally  heated  up   in    a  good    brown 

gravy,  is  well  worth  trying  when  vegetables  are  as  scarce  as 


468       MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

they  always  are  in  the  hot  weather.  A  dust  of  grated  cheese 
over  each  piece  may  be  given  without  fear. 

5. — Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely  grated  bread- 
crumbs, half  a  pound  of  minced  dried 

Fig  puddiug.  r         .  i.  £ 

figs,  three  ounces  ot  sugar,  six  ounces 

of  chopped  suet,  and  a  little  gi\ated  nutmeg.  Mix  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Yeatman's  baking  powder  with  an  ounce  of 
flour,  add  this  to  the  other  ingredients  with  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  moisten  with  a  little  milk  sufficiently  to  form  a 
firm  paste,  turn  the  mixtui-e  into  a  buttered  mould,  and 
boil  for  three  hours. 

Lime  sauce. — Put  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar  into  a 
sauce-pan  with  a  breakfast-cupful  of  water,  and  the  very 
finely  peeled  rind  of  a  lime,  simmer  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  add  the  juice  of  two  limes  and  a  liqueur  glass  of  any 
liqueur,  brandy,  or  rum,  strain  and  serve.  A  drop  or  two 
of  cochineal  will  improve  the  colour  of  the  sauce. 


Nougat 

Blanch  a  pound  of  almonds,  and  cut  each  lengthwise 
into  thin  narrow  pieces,  lay  them  on  a  dish  in  front  of  the 
fire,  or  in  the  oven  (with  the  door  open),  to  get  perfectly 
dry ;  melt  in  a  sugar  boiler  Jib.  of  loaf  sugar ;  when  the 
sugar  is  a  rich  brown,  put  in  the  almonds,  mix  them  well 
but  carefully  together,  and  you  will  have  a  soft  paste, 
which  will  harden  when  cold.  Dip  some  small  moulds 
into  some  very  hot-water,  slightly  but  thoroughly  oil  them 
with  melted  butter  ;  put  some  of  the  mixture  in  one  of 
them,  and  with  the  handle  of  a  tea-spoon  previously  but- 
tered, spread  it  out  so  as  completely  to  line  the  mould ; 
trim  the  edges,  and  when  cold,  turn  out  the  nougat. 
Having  made  a  number  of  cases  in  the  same  way,  serve 
them  with  whipped  cream  or  sweetmeats  inside  each. 
The  nougat  should  be  very  thin.     Any   kind  of   mould, 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.        469 

large  or  small,  may  be  used,  and  many  fanciful  devices 
may  be  worked  with,  tliis  composition.  The  almond 
should  be  cut  smaller  for  intricate  designs,  and  in  all 
cases  the  work  must  be  done  quickly,  for  the  sugar  soon 
becomes  too  stiff  to  be  spread  into  position. 


Endive- 
Endive  (cMcoree,)  as  grown  in  Southern  India,  is  per- 
haps better  when  cooked  than  when  presented  raw  in 
salad,  for  it  lacks  the  crispness  which  the  plant  acquires 
at  home  in  the  winter.  Endives  should  be  trimmed  for 
cooking  by  picking  off  the  outside  leaves,  and  cutting  off 
the  green  tips.  The  heads  should  then  be  severed  by  a 
cut  across  the  stalk,  detaching  all  the  leaves  therefrom. 
Thus  every  leaf  can  be  examined  and  cleaned.  When  this 
has  been  done,  and  the  leaves  have  been  drained  dry,  cast 
them  into  a  roomy  vessel  full  of  boiling  water  with  half 
an  ounce  of  salt.  Unlike  spinach,  which  merely  takes  five 
minutes,  endives  must  be  boiled  for  twenty-five.  When 
tender,  drain,  press  out  the  water,  and  chop  fine  on  a  clean 
board,  finishing  as  explained  for  spinach.  If  you  simmer 
the  endive  leaves  in  consomme  for  two  hours,  and  then 
increase  the  fire,  stirring  till  the  leaves  have  absorbed 
the  broth,  and  finally  moistening  them  with  some  rich 
hechamel  and  a  pat  of  butter,  you  will  have  the  correct 
foundation  for  a  blanquefte  a  la  Talleyrand,  i.e.,  neat 
pieces  of  cooked  chicken  heated  up  in  the  endive  sauce. 


■■■••rrriB  M  feirx^--- 


50 


TvIEl^XJ      ISrCD. 


For  a  little  home  dinner, 

Potagc  a  la  puree  de  legnmcs. 
Darne  do  seer  au  gratin. 

Pintade  au  cresson. 

Haricots  verts  panaches. 

Croustades  de  bandecai. 

Beiguets  de  banancs  au  rhum. 

Fromage,  hors  dceuvrcs. 

Dessert. 

Cafe  noir. 

1. — Prepare  earl}-  in  the  day  the  usual  gravy  soup,  oi' 
stock,  that  yon  order  daily  :  take  it 
off  the  fire  in  the  afternoon,  and  add 
two  carrots,  a  turnip,  an  onion,  a  stick  of  celery,  and  a 
little  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  together :  when  thoroughly 
done,  drain  off  the  soup  and  pass  the  boiled  vegetables 
through  the  wire  sieve.  Now  mix  over  the  fire  in  a  sauce- 
pan an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour, 
gradually  adding  vegetable  pulp  and  stock,  and  stirring 
well,  until  you  have  exhausted  the  whole.  Let  it  come  to 
the  boil.  After  you  have  taken  the  soup  off  the  fire,  stir 
in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  up  in  a  little  milk :  fried 
croutons  of  bread  should  accompany  this  soup. 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER,        471 

2. — Flatten  out  on  a  board  a  nice  slice  of  seer  fish,  hav- 
ing previously  prepared  a  small  cupful 

Slice    of    seer    nu      ^f  maccaroni  boiled  till  tender.     Now 
giatiu. 

butter   a   small   pie-dish,    sprinkle   a 

dessert-spoonful  of  minced  shallot  over  the  butter,  place  a 

layer  of  maccaroni  on  it,   and  dust  over  the  maccaroni  a 

couple  of  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese ;  now  put  the 

slice  of  seer  on  the  top  of  the  maccaroni,  moisten  with  a 

breakfast-cupful  of  broth,  in  which  a  little  chablis  may  be 

mixed  with  advantage,  put  a  little  butter  on  the  fish,  spread 

a  piece  of  paper  over  it,  and  bake  for  twelve  minutes  : 

remove  the  paper  and  serve  :  a  couple  of  tomatoes,  sliced, 

may  be  laid  on  the  top  of  the  fish  and  baked  with  it  if 

available. 

3. — This  most  capital  bird  ought  properly  speaking, — in 
the  absence  of  a  florican, — to  take  the 

Roast  Guiaea-fo^vl         j^^g  ^f  a  pheasant  in  our  choicest 
with  water-cress.  ^  ^ 

memi.     If  available,  however,  there  is 

no  reason  why  a  Guinea-fowl  should  not  be  served  as  the 

'piece  de  resistance  of  a  home  dinner.     Pluck,   singe,  draw 

and  truss  the  bird  for  roasting,  but  do  not  allow  the  cook 

to  put  the  liver  and  gizzard  under  the  wings.     Tie  a  few 

thin  slices  of  bacon  over  the  breast,   put  it  to  roast  over  a 

very  clear  fire,  baste  frequently,  and  when  done,  put  it  on 

a  dish  garnished  with  water-cresses.     Send  round  the  best 

bread  sauce,  fried  bread  crumbs,  and  a  rich  brown  gravy 

containing  the  liver  pounded,  half  a  glass  of  red  wine,  a 

tea-spoonful  of  red-currant  jelly,  and  the  juice  of  a  lime. 

On  no  account  stuff  a  Guinea-fowl  like   a  capon.     Serve 

^vith.  pommes  de  terre  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  and  haricots  verts 

panaches,  page  139. 

On  special  occasions  sauce  a  la  Perigueux  should  accom- 
pany a  Guinea-fowl,  and  to  add  to  its  game-like  flavour,  it 
will  be  found  advantageous  to  put  a  snipe  rolled  in  bacon 


472         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DLVNER. 

inside  the  carcass  of  the  bird,  before  roasting,  sewing  np 
the  vent  afterwards. 

4, — Line  four  little  patty  pans  with  pastry  as  laid 
down  for  "  cheese  fingers,"  page  220. 
bande^i.  ^^^'^'  ""^  ^'^^^  them,  and  when  ready,  fill  each 
case  with  a  spoonful  of  bandecai  fiiree 
as  explained  for  **  bandecai  toast,"  page  229.  Heat 
thoroughly  in  the  oven  dusting  a  little  grated  cheese 
over  the  surface  of  each  croiistade,  and  serve  on  a  napkin. 

5. — Here  arc  our  old  fHcnds  "  plantain  fritters."     Mix 
p.     .  .    f  •..  '"'it^i  your    batter  (which    should  be 

made  exactly  like  that  I  have  given 
for  hramouskys,  with  sugar  instead  of  salt)  a  goodly  spoon- 
ful of  rum,  or  any  liqueur  you  may  have  in  the  house  open. 
Tlic  addition  of  a  little  liqueur  is  a  great  improvement. 
All  who  have  tried  pine-apple  fritters  witli  rum  will  not 
hesitate  to  apply  the  same  test  to  plantains.  Dust  over 
your  fritters  before  serving  them  a  nice  coating  of  finely 
sifted  white  sugar.  The  rum  or  liqueur  should  be  poured 
round  the  sliced  plantains,  like  a  marinade,  an  hour  before 
they  are  cooked  :  it  can  be  used  in  mixing  the  batter  after- 
wards. The  batter  should  not  be  too  thick,  and  do  not 
forget  to  have  the  bath  of  fat  hot  enough. 


"Pudding"  a  la  Viennoise. 

The  following  is  Francatelli's  recipe  :  twelve  ounces  of 

„.  ,,.  crumb  of  bread  cut  into  small  dice, 

V  lenna  pudding.  ' 

two    glasses  of    Madeira,    a    dessert 

spoonful  of  minced  citron,  two  ounces  sweet,  and  half  an 

ounce  bitter  almonds  pounded,   six  ounces  of  raisins,  and 

a  burnt  sugar  custard  made  with  six  yolks  of  eggs,  one 

pint  of  cream,  and  two  ounces  of  burnt  sugar,   sweetened 

with  six  ounces  loaf-sugar.    Put  the  bread,  almonds,  raisins 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 


473 


and  citron  into  a  basin,  and  pour  the  wine  over  them  ; 
pnt  the  two  ounces  of  sugar  into  a  stew-pan  to  brown,  then 
pour  in  the  cream,  stir  it  round,  and  add  the  yolks  of  eggs 
previously  beaten  :  thicken  in  the  bain-marie,  and  strain 
the  custard  into  the  mixture  in  the  basin,  butter  a  mould 
and  ornament  it  with  candied  peel,  fill  it  with  the  mixture, 
and  steam  one  and  a  half  hours  ;  serve  with  caramel 
custard,  or  sauce  Roy  ale.  Half  of  the  above  will  be  found 
sufficient  for  a  nice  pudding. 


m^ 

w§ 

HMEINTXJ     HNTO.      I^^IT:^^-^!!. 


For  a  little  home  dinner, 

Croute  au  pot. 

!Mcrlans  a  la  reraoulade  chaiuie. 

Poulctte  grillee,  "  bread  sauce." 

rommcs  de  terre  sautees  a  la  Ljoniiaisc. 

Sarccllcs  sauce  a  la  bigarade. 

"  Puddiug"  ji  la  Reine  Victoria. 

Fromagc,  hors  d'a?uvres. 

Dessert. 

Cafe  noir. 

1. — This  is  an   ordinary  pot-au-feu  Avith  pieces  of  toast 

and   vegetable   introduced  at  the  last 

ciusu'    ^°"P     '"'^^      moment.    The  preparation  of  the  toast, 

however,  demands  attention.     Cut  off 

the  bottom  crust  of  a  tinned  loaf,  with  the  same  thickness 

of  crumb  as  of  crust  :  cut  this  out  into  squares  half  the 

size  of  a  visiting  card,  or  in   rounds   the  size  of  a  rupee  ; 

soak  them  in  some  stock  (from  the  soup)  and  put  them  in 

a  buttered  tin  into  the  oven  where  they  should  remain 

until  crisp  and  dry,  slices  of  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  and 

pieces  of  celery,   that  have  been  cooked  in  the  pot-au-feii 

should  be  added  to  the  soup  before   serving,  the  crusts 

being  put  in  at  the  very  last  moment.* 

2. — Fry  the  whitings  and  serve  them  with  the  following 

Fried  whitings  with      sauce  in  a  boat: — Toss  in  butter  a 

remoulade  sauce  (hot).       couple  of  shallots,  finely  minced  ;  add 

*  Some  pieces  of  cabbage  boiled   separately   should  be  added  to 
tliis  soup.— W. 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.         475 

a  dessert-spoonfnl  of  flour  and  half  a  pint  of  chicken  stock  ; 
then  take  a  table-spoonful  of  mixed  marjoram,  garden 
cress,  parsley,  and  capers,  all  very  finely  minced,  and  add 
them  to  the  sauce,  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  French  mus- 
tard, pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ; 
lastly,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  (optional),  and 
when  the   sauce  has  boiled  aminute  or  two,   it  is  ready. 

3. — Bone  your  fowl,  and  make  a  nice  strong  broth  with 
the  bones,  which  will,  of  course,  form 
the  basis  of  the  stock  for  the  whitings' 
sauce  just  described.  Flatten  out  the  fowl  like  a  steak, 
butter  it  and  grill  it  smartly  over  a  bright  fire,  serve  with 
bread  sauce,  and  fried  potatoes  «  la  Lyonnaise  (page  132), 
and  garnish  with  water-cress. 

Do  not  forget  the  bread  sauce  receipt  I  gave  at  page  SS. 

Simmer  till  tender  a  Bellary  onion  in 

Bread  sauce.  •    ,      ci        ^^^         ^,^  -i 

a  pint  01  milk  with  a  dozen  pepper 

corns,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,   and  four  cloves  ;  strain  when 

the  onion  is  quite  pulpy,  pour  the  strained  milk  over  the 

grated   bread-crumbs,    and   heat  it  up   again,    adding   a 

spoonful  of  cream  before  serving. 

4. — Prepare  the  teal,  as  recommended  in  Menu  N"©.  20, 

but  preserving  the  breast  of  each  bird 

Teal  with  bigarade      entire,  and  make  a  game  gravy  with 
sauce.  o  &        J 

the  bones  and  the  giblets  of  the  birds, 

proceeding  as  already  directed  to  make  higarade  sauce, 

page  351.     I  think,  however,  that  as  the  oranges  which 

compose  this  sauce  in  Europe  are  the  sour  Seville,  a  little 

lime  juice  should  be   added  to  ours  to   give  it  piquancy. 

Broil  the  teal  breasts  upon  a  gridiron,  and  serve  them  full 

of  juice  straight  from  the  fire.     Any  nice  vegetable  may 

be  reserved  to  accompany  the  teal. 

5, — A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  three  ounces 


476         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DLWNER. 

of  shredded  suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
Yictoiia  puddiug.  „  .  ii        •    •  <•        t  •xi 

of  any  ]am,  the  juice  of  a  lime,  with 

the  peel  grated  also,  two  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  two  eggs 
and  a  pinch  of  salt — mix  thoroughly,  place  it  in  a  buttered 
mould,  and  boil  for  three  hours. 

Sauce  : — Mix  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  flour  with  half  an 
ounce  of  butter,  and  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
in  a  table-spoonful  of  the  jam  you  use  for  your  pudding, 
the  juice  of  a  lime  and  a  spoonful  of  brandy  :  simmer  for 
five  minutes,  mix  with  it  a  little  pat  of  butter,  strain,  and 
pour  it  both  over,  and  round  the  pudding. 

Or  this  : — Sauce  lioyale  a  la  Chetput  : — Two  ounces  of 
sifted  sugar,  eight  ounces  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream, 
half  a  liqueur  glass  of  ^ladcira,  or  sherry,  and  the  same 
of  brandy  ;  keep  it  quite  cold,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  This 
is  a  specialite  for  plum  pudding. 


Souffle  de  Volaille. 

Take  the  nicest  meat  of  a  full  sized,  cold  roast  chicken  ; 

mince  the  meat  very  finely,  put  it  in  a 
Chicken  souffle.  «      .  -.i    ,  i!  i.    xx 

f rymg-pan  with  two  ounces  oi  butter, 

and    a    table-spoonful  of    minced  ham,  and  toss  till  the 

butter  is  absorbed.     Make  about  half  a  pint  of  rich  white 

sauce,  flavour  it    with  almonds,  pepper,  salt,  and  use  a 

broth  made  of  the  bones  and  trimmings.     Now  throw  the 

mince  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  it  to  a  paste,  moistening 

it  with  the  sauce.     Pass  the  puree  through  the  sieve,  and 

then  stir  lightly  into  it  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  adding  last 

of  all  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.     Pour 

it  into  a  souffle  tin,  with  a  paper  round  the  top,  to  allow  it 

to  rise.     Bake  in  a  very  quick  oven.     Serve  the  souffle 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 


477 


quickly  in  the  tin,  with  a  white  napkin  pinned  round  it. 
Rabbit,  or  game,  may  be  advantageously  cooked  in  this 
way ;  petits  souffles  de  gihier  make  an  excellent  second 
course  dish.  A  wreath  of  fresh  parsley  round  the  bottom 
of  the  napkin  gives  a  neat  finish  to  the  plat. 


Boudins  de  saumon- 

Choose  as  many  China  ramaquin  cases,  or  small  dariole 
moulds,  as  you  have  guests  ;  butter  them ;  and  place  them 
on  one  side.  Make  a  good  rich  custard  abstaining  from 
sugar,  and  using  a  savoury  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper 
instead. — Empty  a  tin  of  salmon  ;  choose  a  nice  piece  for 
each  mould ;  place  the  pieces  in  a  colander,  and  with  cold 
water  remove  all  oily  liquid  from  them ;  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  then  put  them  into  the  moulds,  pouring  the 
custard  round  them.  Now  steam  the  moulds,  and  when 
set,  turn  out  the  houdins  carefully.  Send  round  hot,  with 
Hollandaise  sauce. 


51 


3viEr<rxj    isrcD. 


For  a  little  home  dinger. 

Puree  de  tomatcs. 

Mulet  au  gratin. 

*'  Beef-steak  Pie"  a  la  supreme. 

R^ties  a  la  becasse. 

Omelette  soufflee. 

Fromage,  liors  d'ociivres. 

Dessert. 

1. — Sonp  meat  as  usual  for  two,  six  or  eight  good  sized 

tomatoes.     Make  your  stock  from  the 
Tomato  Soup.  ,  ^  .... 

soup   meat,  and  as  it  is   simmering, 

prepare  the  tomatoes  as  follows  : — Choose  an  enamel-lined 
sauce-pan  of  a  fair  size,  throw  into  it  the  tomatoes  cut  into 
quarters,  a  tea-spoonful  of  dried  basil,  an  onion  shredded, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  :  cook  the  pieces  of  tomato  until  they 
are  quite  soft,  stirring  them  about  lest  they  catch  at  the 
bottom  of  the  sauce-pan  :  as  soon  as  they  seem  ready,  turn 
them  out  upon  a  sieve,  pick  out  the  garlic,  and  commence 
working  the  tomatoes  through  the  sieve  and  save  the  i^ulp 
in  a  bowl.  When  dinner  time  is  at  hand,  you  must  amal- 
gamate the  pulp  and  stock  in  the  prescribed  way  : — Melt 
an  ounce  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  sauce-pan,  work  a 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER,        479 

dessert-spoonful  of  flour  into  it  till  it  looks  smooth,  then 
add  a  little  stock,  a  little  ^uree,  and  so  on  by  degrees  till 
you  have  exhausted  your  supply,  let  the  soup  come  to  the 
boil  to  thicken  properly,  and  then  serve  it  with  croutons 
of  fried  bread. 

2. — Choose  a  good  sized  mullet,  and  a  dozen  prawns. 

^  ,    ,       ,  Clean  the  former  carefully,  and  boil 

Baked  mullet.  ,,  ,  ,,       /'  . 

the  prawns  :    when  the  latter   have 

been  boiled,  shell  and  clean  them,  wash  them  well,  dry 
them,  and  pound  them  thoroughly  in  a  mortar  with  a  lit- 
tle butter,  and  the  crumb  of  a  roll  soaked  in  milk :  pass 
this  through  the  sieve,  and  season  it  with  one  anchovy, 
wiped  free  from  oil,  and  chopped  fine,  a  little  curly  parsley 
also  minced,  a  little  chopped  marjoram,  and  a  cold  boiled 
onion  shredded :  give  this  a  dust  of  pepper,  and  a  little 
salt,  and  work  it  together  thoroughly  with  a  couple  of 
raw  eggs.  Now  lay  your  mullet  on  a  flat  dish,  wipe  it 
dry,  and  fill  it  with  the  prawn  stuffing,  sew  up  the  fish 
securely.  Butter  a  pie-dish,  place  the  mullet  therein, 
pour  a  breakfast  cupful  of  broth  round  it,  spread  a  little 
butter  upon  the  top  of  it,  and  bake  for  about  ten  minutes 
or  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  A  pat  of  maitre 
d' hotel  butter  should  be  placed  on  the  top  of  the  mullet 
before  serving,  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  hock,  or  any  light 
wine  like  chablis,  poured  round  it  during  the  baking,  will 
be  found  an  improvement.  Baste  the  fish  now  and  then 
during  the  cooking. 

3. — Here  is  a  really  good  recipe  for  a  savoury  pie.  Buy 
a  nice  undercut  of  a  sirloin  of  beef, 
stetk  pS^^^^''*'  ^^^^'  ^^^  some  coarser  meat  for  gravy. 
Slice  the  undercut  into  thin  slices 
crosswise,  not  lengthwise ;  place  the  slices  on  a  flat  dish 
and  upon  each  slice  lay  a  thin  one  of  boiled  bacon  ;  give 
the  whole  a  dusting  of  spiced  pepper.  E-oll  them  up 
(each  separately)  and  give  them  an  external  dusting  of 


480         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

spiced  pepper.  Take  a  pie-dish,  rub  it  well  with  a  shallot, 
butter  it,  and  place  a  layer  of  the  rolled  slices  over  the 
bottom  of  it,  now  potir  gently  round  the  layer  a  cupful  of 
strong  gravy  made  from  the  coarser  meat  previously  men- 
tioned ;  repeat  the  process  adding  another  layer  of  rolled 
beef  slices,  and  more  gravy,  till  the  dish  is  packed ;  garnish 
the  surface  with  pieces  of  hard  boiled  eg^,  and  cover  the 
whole  with  a  good  light  crust,  bake  in  the  usual  way  and 
serve.  Oysters,  minced  anchovies,  chopped  olives,  and 
mushrooms  may,  of  course,  be  m.ingled  with  the  layers  ; 
and  a  glass  of  Madeira  may  enrich  the  gravy  if  you  desire 
perfection.  Let  me  here  point  out  that  Ramasamy's  ordi- 
nary pie  is  a  cruel  burlesque  of  that  dish.  He  first  cooks 
the  meat  independently,  then  covers  it  with  crust,  and 
finally  bakes  it.  The  glory  of  a  pie  consists  in  the  whole 
composition  being  baked  together  :  attention  is,  of  course, 
necessary  to  keep  the  oven  at  the  proper  temperature, 
and  to  avoid  hurrying  matters,  or,  of  course,  the  crust  will 
take  colour  too  soon,  and  your  pie  be  burnt.  For  savoury 
pie  crust,  see  Chapter  XXVI. 

4. — For  this  excellent  entremets  savoureux,  see  page  226. 

,„     ,  Be  careful  in  having  the  toasts  served 

Woodcock  toasts.  .     ,  •,  i 

as  hot  as  possible. 

5. — A  little  omelette  soiijjiee  will    complete  our  dinner 

^  nicely.     Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six  eg^-s 

Omelet  souffle.  .^J'    ^,,  .i     r       i,-, 

with  a  table-spooniul  or  white  sugar, 

flavour  the  mixture  with  lemon,  vanilla,  or  ratafia  essence  : 
whisk  the  whites  to  a  stifi  froth  independently  ;  then 
blend  the  two  thoroughly.  Put  this  into  a  small  circular 
souffle  tin,  and  bake  it  in  a  very  quick  oven,  send  it  to 
table  the  moment  it  is  ready,  dusted  over  with  finely  sifted 
sugar.  A  little  preserve  may  accompany  the  omelette 
soufflSe,  and  a  few  drops  of  any  liqiteur  will  be  found  an 
agreeable  addition.  The  great  thing  is,  to  serve  immedi- 
ately :  you  cannot  therefore  bake  the  souffle  in  a  distant 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.         481 

kitchen  :  the  baking  should  be  conducted  as  close  to  the 
dining-room  door,  as  possible,  and  the  dish  should  be 
brought  in  the  nick  of  time.  A  proper  souffle  tin  is,  of 
course,  absolutely  necessary  for  this  dish. 


Pain  de  fromage. 

This  is  of  mould  of  "  cheese  cream."  Make  half  a  pint 
of  rich  custard,  season  it  with  salt  instead  of  sugar,  and 
a  little  Nepal  pepper  ;  whip  it  well,  stir  in  three  ounces  of 
grated  Parmesan  or  Gruyere,  and  half  an  ounce  of  dis- 
solved gelatine.  Set  the  mixture  in  a  plain  mould  on  ice, 
and,  while  setting,  stir  in  a  coffee-cupful  of  whipped  cream. 
Turn  out  the  mould,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and 
serve  cold. 

Following  the  same  principle  very  excellent  pains,  or 
cremes  can  be  made  with  purees  of  delicate  meats,  fish,  and 
vegetables.  Creme  de  homard,  creme  de  crevettes,  creme 
d'artichauts,  pain  de  gihier,  8fC.  If  required  to  be  served 
liot,  the  contents  of  the  mould  must  be  steamed  like  a 
pudding,  the  cream  being  stirred  into  the  custard  in  the 
first  instance.  It  is  essential  that  the  purees  be  thoroughly 
pounded,  and  passed  through  the  sieve.  Cold  savoury 
creams  are  specially  nice  at  luncheon.  These  dishes  are 
sometimes  called  mousse  de  homard  mousse  de  crevetteSy  8fc. 


nMEzrxrxj    UNTO.    :x::?^i:^^. 

For  a  little  home  dinner. 

Consomme  aux  ocufs  poches. 
Pomfrct  au  puree  de  grandes  crevettes. 
Filet  de  ba^uf  an  puree  d'oscillc. 
Pommes  de  terre  a  1'  Americaine. 
Canard  sanvage. 
Charlotte  de  pommes. 
Fromage,  hors  d'ceuvres. 
Dessert. 
1. — This  is  a  very  simple  method  of  turning  an  ordinary 
clear  gi'avy  soup  into  a  recherche  pot- 
ported  egg»°''    "'"'      "?«•     Tho  eggs  (one  for  each  person) 
must  however  be  carefully  poached, 
neither  too  lightly   nor  too  hard,  then  trimmed  neatly 
leaving  as  little  margin  of  white  as  possible,  and  served 
with  the  soup.     A  few  leaves  of  dried  tarragon  flavour  the 
consomme  very  pleasantly,  and  grated  Parmesan  should  be 
handed  round  on  a  separate  plate.     If  you  have  no  tar- 
ragon leaves,  try  a  little  of  the  vinegar. 

Note  this  : — In  order  to  make  sure  of  not  breaking  the 
eggs  in  the  tureen, — order  your  butler  to  heat  the  soup 
plates  and  place  the  poached  eggs  in  them,  before  he 
serves  the  soup  :  he  can  then  pour  the  soup  over  the  eggs, 
instead  of  having  to  ladle  them  out  of  the  soup,  which  is 
always  an  operation  requiring  much  delicacy  of  touch,  and 
a  broken  egg  spoils  the  appearance  of  the  consomme. 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.        483 

2. — Boil  the  pomfret.     The  prawn  sauce  that  I  recom- 
mend is  not  the  ordinary  one  eom- 

pifr^^'^^"^'*"^  ^'^'^''  P'^s^^  0^  melted  butter  (sauce  hlancJie) 
and  lumps  of  prawn  mixed  with  it. 
The  composition  I  think  very  much  nicer  is  a  creamy 
puree  of  the  shell-fish,  a  little  thicker  than  ordinary 
mayonnaise  sauce,  made  thus : — A  dozen  fair  sized  prawns, 
boiled,  and  cleaned,  pounded  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar, 
flavoured  with  an  anchovy,  a  little  spice,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  then  worked  with  melted  butter,  floui',  and  a  little 
broth,  to  the  consistency  I  have  mentioned.  It  should  be 
served  as  hot  as  possible. 

3. — I  would  stew  the  steak  with  a  few  nice  vegetables, 

and  dress   the  sorrel   independently. 

Beef    steak    with      Before  you  proceed  to  cook  the  steak, 

sorrel  puree.  j        i  ^  » 

make  some   gravy   with    scraps    and 

trimmings :  it  would  be  as  well  indeed  to  order  a  little 

extra  meat  for  that  purpose,  when  you  have  got  this  to 

your  mind,  strain  it  off  and  keep  it  handy.     Now  take  a 

frying-pan,  melt  a  piece  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  it,  and 

shred  an  onion  therein ;  lay  the  steak  upon  it,  and  turn  it 

about  until  it  is  well  browned  on  both  sides  ;  now  lift  it 

up  and  place  it  in  your  stew-pan,  with  the  gravy   and 

vegetables,  to  simmer  gently  till  done,  which  you  can  test 

with  a  fork.     It  ought  to  be  as  tender  as  possible  if  you 

are  only  careful  enough  to  prevent  galloping,  that  is,  fast 

cooking :  the  slow  simmering  process  is  the  thing  needful. 

The  vegetables  cooked  with  the  steak  may  be  strained 

from  the  gravy,  and  cut  up  into  neat  dice,  to  garnish  the 

top  of  the  steak :  the  gravy  must  be  saved  for  the  sorrel 

which  you  must  cook  as  follows  : — 

Put  two  good  handfuls  of  carefully  picked  sorrel  in 
plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  a  pinch  of 
soda,  blanch  for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  chop  the  leaves 
small  on  a  board.     Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  sauce= 


484         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

pan  to  which  add  a  little  flour,  'the  sorrel,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  sugar,  and  the  steak  gravy  stirring  vigorously  to  prevent 
the  leaves  catching  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan : — "WTien  the 
gravy  and  butter  are  thoroughly  well  absorbed,  turn  the 
sorrel  out,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  up  in  a 
little  milk,  and  pour  the  ^uree  round  the  steak,  which 
should  have  been  kept  hot  whilst  the  last  stage  was  com- 
pleted. The  sorrel  should,  of  course,  be  got  ready  before- 
hand. 

4. — This  way  of  cooking  potatoes  will  be  found  at  page 
132  : — Boil   the    potatoes    till    nearly 

icIn^^^Bw''"''^"'''"  ^°^^=  ^^^^^  *^®^  ^^  *^ic^  slices,  and 
heat  them,  d,  la  fricassee j  in  nice  white 
sauce  made  with  milk  previously  flavoured  with  onion, 
spice,  pepper  and  salt.  The  yolk  of  an  c^g,  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  curly  parsley  minced  fine,  and  a  pat  of  butter  tho 
size  of  a  rupee,  should  be  stirred  into  the  sauce-pan,  off  the 
fire,  before  serving.  A  few  drops  of  lime  juice  are  an 
improvement,  and  to  those  who  think  that  they  might 
not  like  the  onion-flavoured  milk,  that  of  pounded  almonds 
may  be  more  pleasing. 

5. — Order  the  duck  to  be  roasted — not  baked  in  tho 
„..  chatty  oven,   (which  Ramasamy  will 

certainly  do  if  you  do  not  take  steps 
to  prevent  the  sacrilege)  and  let  it  be  nice  and  juicy,  not 
dried  up  by  over-dressing.  I  have  known  an  ignorant 
Ramasamy  stuff  a  wild  duck  like  a  tame -one  !  need  I  do 
more  than  warn  you  that  this  is  erroneous  ?  Having 
served  the  bird  with  all  the  gi'avy  that  was  caught  during 
the  roasting  on  a  very  hot  dish,  what  must  we  do  for  a 
sauce  on  the  spot  ?  This  will  be  found  a  good  one : — 
Score  the  breast  of  the  bird  in  the  direction  you  intend  to 
slice  it,  and  let  the  gravy  run  out  bountifully  ;  to  that  add 
a  table-spoonful  of  port,  burgundy,  or  fruity  Madeira,  (the 
first  if  possible)  give  that  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lime-juice 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.        485 

and  six  drops  of  "  tabasco,''  or  a  tea-spoonful  of  chilli 
vinegar  ;  stir  the  gravy  round  with  a  spoon,  and  baste  the 
breast  of  the  duck  liberally  with  it,  then  go  on  with  your 
carving.  If  you  have  a  little  sauce-boat  on  a  spirit  lamp 
by  your  side  (a  beautiful  modern  invention)  the  gravy 
can  be  heated  therein,  on  the  spot  admirably. 

6. — An  apple  charlotte  (practicable  also  with  J^Za?^^a^n5) 
should  be  made  in  this  easy  way. 
Butter  a  small  but  deep  pie- dish  or 
plain  mould :  cut  a  thin  piece  of  bread  (to  form  the  top  of 
the  charlotte)  the  size  and  shape  of  the  top  of  the  mould, 
butter  it  on  both  sides,  and  put  it  into  the  mould ;  now 
line  the  side  of  the  mould  with  moderately  thin  strips  of 
bread  and  butter,  buttered  on  both  sides :  that  is  to  say, 
cover  both  the  inverted  top  and  sides  of  the  mould,  mak- 
ing a  case  of  bread  and  butter  as  it  were.  Within  the  case 
place  layers  of  apples  cut  small,  (or  sliced  ripe  plantains) 
with  apricot  jam  spread  between  each  layer,  some  lime 
juice  sprinkled  over  them  all,  and  a  good  allowance  of 
white  sugar  ;  when  packed,  cover  the  bottom  of  the  mould 
with  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  the  same  as  that  used  for 
the  top  and  sides,  and  bake  till  the  bread  browns  nicely. 
Use  plenty  of  good  butter  please,  and  you  will  find  this  a 
simple  but  pleasant  sweet  dish  :  a  sprinkling  of  any  liqueur 
would,  of  course,  add  to  the  nice  flavour  of  the  fruit. 
Turn  it  out  very  carefully,  and  let  cold  custards  accom- 
pany the  charlotte. 


Florican  roti- 

On  account  of  its  rarity  in  the  Madras  market,  I  have 

accidentally  forgotten  to  include  this, 
Hoast  florican.  .,  ,  „  i  •    i    •     a      J^^ 

— the  prince  oi  game  birds  m  feouthern 

India, — among  the  various  rots  I  have  suggested  in  the 

menus.     It  should  be  treated  like  a  pheasant.     Pick,  draw, 

52 


486         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 


sino-e,  and  truss  tlie  florican  placing  a  Bombay  onion,  rolled 
in  fat  boiled  bacon,  inside  its  carcass.  Tie  a  thin  slice  oi 
bacon  over  the  breast,  and  roast  the  bird  over  a  moderate 
fire,  basting  it  frequently  with  melted  butter.  A  few 
minutes  before  the  florican  is  done,  remove  the  slice  of 
bacon,  so  as  to  let  the  breast  take  colour.  Serve  with 
plain  gravy,  fried  crumbs,  and  bread  sauce.  Time,  about 
thirty  minutes.  Proceed  in  the  same  way  if  you  happen 
to  have  a  wild  pea-chick,  a  young  jungle  fowl,  or  a  spur 
fowl. 

A  most  appropriate  accompaniment  to  roast  florican 
roast  pheasant,  guinea  fowl,  &c.,  ai^e  : — 

Croustades  de  truffes  a  I'Espagnole- 

Line  as  many  little  open  tartlet  pans  as  you  have  guests 
with  some  carefully  made  short-bread  paste.  An  oval  not 
much  larger  than  the  bowl  of  a  table  spoon  is  the  shape 
best  suited  to  the  purpose.  Butter  them  well  first  to  keep 
them  from  burning,  and  preserve  their  hollow  centres 
while  baking  them  by  a  piece  of  stale  bread,  to  be  removed 
afterwards.  Cut  up  some  truffles  in  dice,  using  enough  to 
yield  a  good  dessert-spoonful  per  head.  Warm  the  mince 
np  gently  in  some  rich  Espagnole  sauce  flavoured  with  a 
dash  of  Madeira,  and  keep  it  en  hain-rnarie.  When  want- 
ed, fill  the  crisp  croustades  with  a  spoonful  each  of  the 
truffles  and  sauce,  dish  them  en  serviette,  and  send  them 
round  with  the  bird.  Croustades  de  champignons,  made  in 
the  same  way  but  substituting  mushrooms  for  truffles,  may 
be  served  with  roast  game  very  effectively. 


HN/iEiisrxj    iiNTo.  i^::^^-?^ 


For  a  little  home  dinner. 

Bouillon. 

Sole  frite  h  la  Colbert. 

Bouilli  a  la  Milanaise. 

Topinambonrs  anx  oeiifs  farcis. 

Demoiselles  d'lionneur. 

Froinage,  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Dessert. 

1. — This    soup  is  to  be  made  from    the  joint,  iu   tlie 

foreign    manner,   a   la    pot-au-feu,   so 

Bouillon.  °  .      '    .  ^  ^^         -1,        . 

purchase  a  nice  piece  or  the  ribs  ot 

beef,  weighing  about  five  pounds,  with  two  carrots,  a 
turnip,  a  handful  of  French  beans,  a  large  Bombay  onion, 
half  a  head  of  celery  (leaves  and  all),  two  leeks,  and  a 
bunch  of  parsley.  When  the  joint  comes  home,  detach 
the  meat  from  the  bones  en  masse,  roll  it  up  compactly, 
and  tie  it  firmly  with  a  string. — See  that  your  soup  ket- 
tle is  thoroughly  clean,  put  in  the  bones  (chopped  up) 
first,  and  place  your  bundle  of  meat  above  them,  pouring 
in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  the  top  of  the  meat — with 
one  and  a  half  ounce  of  salt  and  nothing  else.  Ramasamy 
throws  in  all  his  vegetables  to  begin  with,  which  is  an 
utterly  erroneous  proceeding.  Now  set  the  pot  near  the 
fire,  and  let  the  contents  come  as  slowly  as  possible  to  the 
boil,  skimming  off  every  atom  of  scum  as  it  rises,  and  add- 


488         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

iiig  from  time  to  time  a  little  cold  water  to  retard  ebulli- 
tion, and  encourage  the  rising  of   the  scum.     Keep  the 
vessel  open  throughout  the  operations,  otherwise  the  soup 
will  not  be  bright  and  clear.     This  having  been  completed, 
and  the  pot  boiling  with  a  clean  surface,  you  may  cast  in 
your  vegetables  (the  carrots  first,  followed  by  the  turnip) 
all  nicely  washed,  trimmed,  and  cut  up.     In  addition,  you 
must  give  the  soup  a  tea-spoonful  of  caramel  (burnt  sugar 
colouring),  a  dessert-spoonful   of   sugar,   a   dozen  pepper 
corns,  and  a  bag  containing  mixed  sweet  herbs   (a   tea- 
spoonfal  of  each).     These  additions  will  stop  the  boiling 
you  will  find,  so  watch  the  vessel  narrowly,  and  as  soon  as 
boiling  begins  again,  ease  o£E  the  fire,  and  let  the  contents 
of  the  kettle  simmer  till  the  vegetables  are  nicely  done. 
Now  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  remove  the  vegetables 
and  put  the  meat  broth  and  bone  back  on  a  low  fire  to 
simmer  slowly  until  you  find  that  the  first  is  nice  and  ten- 
der,— done  in  fact.     The  time  of  this  will  depend  upon  the 
size  of  the  meat  and  the  accuracy  of  the  simmering  :  from 
two  to  three  hours  is  the  ordinary  period.     As  soon  as  the 
meat  is  done,  the  soup  is  ready  also  :  keeping  the  meat 
overdoing  will  not  give  you   a  fraction  more  strength  in 
the  broth.     So  strain   it    from  the  meat,    and   set  it  to 
cool.     Place  the  meat  and  vegetables  separately  on  dishes. 
When  the  broth  is  cold,  take  off  any  fat  that  may  have 
risen  to  its  surface,  and  return  the  liquor  to  the  sauce-pan. 
Cut  up  some  of  the  vegetables  into  nice  pieces  and  place 
them  in  the   soup  tureen,  let  the  contents  of  your  sauce- 
pan come  almost  to  the  boil,  and  pour  them  over  the  vege- 
tables.    It  will  be   a  bright   clear  soup,   with   a  capital 
flavour  :  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Madeira  and  a  dried  leaf  or 
two  of  tarragon  will  improve  it.     The  colour  will  depend 
upon  the  amount  of  caramel  you  put  into  the  pot.     A  nice 
golden  yellow  is  easily  obtained. 

2. — Make  an  incision  along  the  back-bone  on  the  upper 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.         489 

side  of  the  sole,  from  and  up  to  within 
^  Jned  sole  a  la  Col-      ^^  -^^^1^  ^^  ^^iQ  head  and  tail  ;  slip  a 

knife  under  the  flesh  on  each  side  of 
the  cut,  and  loosen  it  from  the  bones  ;  then  egg  and 
bread-crumb  the  fish  with  finely  sifted  crumbs,  and  fry 
it  in  plenty  of  fat,  with  the  side  bearing  the  incision 
uppermost.  The  edges  of  this  will  curl  outwards  in 
the  process  of  frying,  and  the  opening  thus  made  should 
be  filled  at  the  time  of  serving  with  plenty  of  maitre 
cVhotel  butter,  the  sole  being  sprinkled  with  fine  salt. 
While  the  fish  is  being  drained  in  front  of  the  fire,  the 
back-bone  may  be  removed  carefully,  but  this  is  not 
essential. 

3. — After  draining  the  rolled  rib  meat    mentioned    in 
,  .  No.  1,  and  letting  it  get  cold,  place  it 

on  a  dish  that  will  stand  the  oven, 
brush  it  over  with  egg,  and  dredge  over  it  a  coating  of 
very  finely  grated  dry  cheese,  and  bread-crumbs,  in  equal 
proportions  :  set  it  in  the  oven  to  heat  thoroughly,  and 
brown  the  outside  of  the  crumbs  with  a  hot  iron  used 
salamander  fashion.  When  ready,  put  the  meat  on  a  dish, 
and  trim  round  it  a  circle  of  hot  maccaroni  freshly  boiled, 
drained,  and  tossed  in  melted  butter  :  over  which  pour  a 
breakfast-cupful  of  rich  tomato  puree,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  or  Gruyere,  and  serve.  If 
you  are  careful  not  to  over-do  the  boiling  of  the  meat  as 
previously  noted,  you  will  find  this  dish, — all  details  being 
carefully  carried  out, — a  very  eatable  one.  A  nice  thick 
brown  gravy  made  with  butter,  flour,  and  some  of  the 
houillon,  flavoured  with  a  spoonful  of  Marsala  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly,  should  go  round  in  a  boat. 
This  is  also  a  nice  way  of  serving  a  fowl.  The  broth  being 
thickened  a  J  a  poulette  for  sauce,  and  the  vegetables 
worked  through  the  sieve  a  la  puree. 

4. — Boil  four  eggs  hard,  put  them  into  a  basin  of  cold 


490         MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER. 

water  ;  when  cold,  cut  them  in  halves 
i^st^M  egg^^'"'      crosswise  with  a  dessert-knife  dipped 

in  melted  butter.  Slice  off  a  piece 
from  each  rounded  end,  so  that  the  halves  will  sit  upright, 
and  prepare  the  yolks  as  laid  down  at  page  238.  Boil 
four  large  Jerusalem  artichokes:  y^-\\enjust  done,  and  not 
overdone  mind,  lift  them  out  of  the  water,  and  let  them 
get  cold  :  out  of  each  artichoke,  trim  with  a  silver  dessert- 
knife,  two  thick  flat  slices  each  capable  of  holding  a  half 
e^g^  butter  the  eight  slices,  lay  them  upon  a  flat  silver 
dish  well  buttered,  and  set  half  an  egg  upon  each  of  them  : 
put  on  the  top  of  each  egg  a  little  pat  of  anchovy  butter, 
set  the  dish  in  the  oven  till  the  steam  rises  freely,  and 
serve  piping  hot.  If  you  can  pour  some  melted  maitre 
d'hotel,  or  prawn  butter  over  them,  the  dish  becomes  quite 
worth  serving  at  a  dinner  party. 

5. — These  you  will  remember  as  the  charming  friends 
we  met  at  Richmond  : — Line  six  tart- 
let tins  with  puff  paste,  and  fill  the 
patties  with  this  mixture  : — Beat  half  pound  sugar  with 
yolks  of  six  eggs  in  a  basin,  and  pound  together  in  a  mor- 
tar two  ounces  of  blanched  sweet  almonds,  three  bitter  ones, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water,  the  juice  of 
four  limes,  and  two  potatoes  (mealy  ones)  boiled,  drained, 
and  passed  through  a  hair  sieve.  Mix  the  eggs,  sugar,  and 
almond  paste.  Turn  a  quart  of  milk  to  curd,  crumble  it, 
and  beat  it  up  with  four  ounces  of  good  butter  till  quite 
smooth,  then  mix  it  thoroughly  with  the  eggs,  almonds, 
&c.,  adding  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  one  of  maraschino. 
Bake  till  thoroughly  hot  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  serve 
with  finely  sifted  sugar  dusted  over  them. 

CuPvDS  : — The  richer  recipes  for  cheese-cakes  are  com- 
posed, it  will  generally  be  found,  with  curds,  with  the 
method  of  making  which  some  of  my  readers  may  be  un- 
acquainted.    A  little  lump  of  alum  put  into  cold  milk,  and 


MENU  FOR  A  LITTLE  HOME  DINNER.         491 

then  set  on  the  fire,  will  turn  milk  to  a  cnrd  as  quickly  as 
anything,  or  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  preserved  '  rennet'  will 
turn  a  quart  of  milk  ;  the  homely  way,  however,  is  to  boil 
a  pint  of  water  in  a  stew-pan,  to  beat  two  eggs  up  with  a 
pint  of  milk,  and  to  add  the  mixture  to  the  boiling  water, 
with  the  juice  of  a  couple  of  limes.  As  the  curd  rises  it 
should  be  skimmed  of,  and  laid  upon  a  sieve  to  drain. 
When  dry,  it  is  ready. 


Lobster  pilao  a  la  Turque. 

Choose  the  firm  pieces  of  a  lobster  from  the  tin,  trim 
them  neatly,  set  them  in  a  buttered  saute-^dm  and  warm 
them  thoroughly.  Arrange  the  pieces  in  a  circle  in  a  hot 
silver  dish  filling  the  centre  with  riz  a  la  Turque  (page 
246).  Pour  some  of  the  following  sauce  over  the  pieces 
of  lobster,  but  not  over  the  rice,  and  serve.  Cut  up  a 
sweet  onion,  or  half  a  dozen  shalots,  and  throw  the  pieces 
into  a  small  stew-pan  with  two  ounces  of  butter.  Fry  till 
the  onions  begin  to  take  color,  then  stir  in"a  table-spoonful 
of  good  curry  powder  or  paste  ;  cook  this  for  five  minutes, 
then  add  a  pint  of  plain  gravy  ;  let  the  contents  of  the 
pan  simmer  now  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  while  you  make 
a  coffee  cupful  of  lait  d'amandes  in  this  way  : — Blanch 
and  peel  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  with  one 
bitter  one  ;  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  milk  ; 
when  well  pounded,  pour  some  boiling  water  upon  them  ; 
stir  well,  and  then  squeeze  the  milk  through  muslin.  Stir 
this  into  the  sauce,  adding  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  off  the 
fire,  before  serving. 


On  Coffee-Making. 


N  certain  occasions  in  the  course  of  my  jottings,   T 
have  mentioned  the  cup  of  cafe  noir  as  the  finishing 
touch  of  a  nice  little  dinner.     I  think,  therefore, 
that  I  may  as  well  say  a  few  words  regarding  its  composi- 
tion before  I  ask  you  to  consider  my  menus  ended. 

Although  few  may  think  themselves  ignorant  of  coffee- 
making,  I  question  whether  its  real  secrets  are  generally 
known.  Indeed  to  judge  by  the  stuff  that  we  usually  get, 
I  think,  we  may  say  that  the  art  is  comparatively  rare. 
First,  to  be  sure,  you  must  "  catch  your  coffee,"  i.e. : — get 
really  good  berries,  and  be  willing  to  pay  a  trifle  over  the 
usual  price  for  them.  That  done,  the  next  thing  to  learn 
is  the  roasting,  an  operation  that  should  be  conducted 
daily  if  you  want  well-flavoured  coffee.  The  process  is  by 
no  means  as  easy  as  many  believe ;  half  the  coffee  we 
drink  is  ruined  by  ignorant  roasting  ;  a  burnt  berry,  mark 
you,  will  spoil  the  whole  brew.  The  best  way,  I  think,  to 
roast  the  berries  is  to  do  a  few  at  a  time  in  a  frying-pan 
over  a  very  low  fire,  passing  them  straight  to  the  mill  (a 
liand-mill  is  quite  indispensable)  from  the  pan.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  berries  will  be  found  quite  enough  at  a  time. 
Melt  a  little  butter,  sufficient  to  lubricate  the  berries,  and 
stir  them  about  until  they  turn  a  light  Havannah  brown  ; 
if  perchance  a  berry  take  a  darker  tint,  throw  it  away  as 
you  would  a  reptile ;  grind  them  at  once  as  coarsely  as 


ON  COFFEE-MAKING.  493 

your  mill  will  admit, — the  grains  should  be  quite  as  large 
as  those  of  rifle  guu-powder, — and  make  the  coffee  as  soon 
afterwards  as  possible. 

A  little  butter  or  salad  oil  is  strongly  recommended, 
it  prevents  the  escape  of  much  of  the  fragrance  of  the 
berry  while  roasting,  and  becomes  quite  dried  up  before 
the  roasting  is  finished.  The  custom  in  the  Indian  kitchen 
is  to  bake,  often  to  over-hake,  the  berries  and  then  tunny- 
cutch  anwiah  pounds  them  to  a  dull  black  powder  as  fine 
as  flour.  The  result  is  a  leaden  tinted  liquid,  acrid  in 
flavour,  and  repulsive  to  look  upon. 

Having  ground  the  coffee  properly, — it  should  be  rich 
in  aroma,  and  of  a  beautiful  pale  snuff  colour — the  best 
coffee- pot  to  use,  after  all,  is  the  percolator.  Be  liberal 
with  the  coffee  (a  table-spoonful  for  each  person),  heat  the 
coffee-pot  thoroughly,  fill  the  upper  chamber  of  the  perco- 
lator according  to  your  requirements,  ram  the  coffee  down 
flrml}^,  and  having  previously  measured  the  amount  of 
coffee  liquid  you  require,  pour  boiling  water,  according  to 
that  measurement,  in  tea-spoonfuls  at  a  time,  through  the 
upper  strainer  upon  the  powder.  The  slower  the  water  is 
added,  the  more  thoroughly  the  coffee  will  become  soaked, 
and,  the  dripping  being  retarded,  the  essence  will  be  as 
strong  as  possible.  As  soon  as  the  coffee  has  run  through, 
pour  the  rich  essence  you  have  obtained  into  3^our  cups, 
and  for  cafe  au  lait  fill  them  up  with  boiling  milk,  for  cafe 
noir  with  a  little  boiling  water. 

As  it  is  scarcely  possible  for  your  servant  to  make  coffee 
with  all  this  care  at  the  end  of  a  dinner  party,  I  recom- 
mend that  the  essence  be  made  just  before  dinner,  and 
kept  covered  up.  For  a  party  of  twelve,  two  brews  will 
be  required.  At  the  time  it  is  wanted,  the  boiling  milk 
imparts  quite  enough  heat  to  the  essence  in  the  case  of  cafe 
au  lait ;  and,  for  black  coffee,  a  gentle  re-heating,  plus  the 
modicum  of  boiling  water  aforesaid,  insures  a  good  cup  , 

53 


494 


ON  COFFEE-MAKING. 


only,  do  not  forget  to  pass  ronnd  with  it  a  flask  of  cognac 
vieil.  I  have  confined  my  remarks  to  the  method  -which 
I  have  folloTved  for  years  successfully,  but  there  arc,  of 
course,  other  ways  of  making  good  coffee. 

The  Turkish  system  much  praised  by  travellers  may  be 
thus  described : — The  roasting  having  been  conducted 
with  all  the  care  I  have  already  indicated,  the  berries  arc 
cast  into  a  large  metal  mortar,  and  pounded  to  a  very  fine 
powder.  This  is  carefully  sifted  through  a  fine  sieve,  all 
coarse  particles  being  rejected.  As  much  water  as  is 
wanted  is  then  boiled  in  a  small  copper  can,  having  a 
narrow  top  and  broad  bottom.  When  the  water  boils, 
powdered  coffee  is  added,  off  the  fire,  according  to  require- 
ments, and  the  can  is  replaced  on  the  fire.  The  liquid  is 
now  permitted  to  come  to  the  boil  three  times,  the  can 
after  each  occasion  of  ebullition  being  taken  off  the  fire 
for  a  while.  After  the  third  boiling  up,  the  can  is  placed 
for  a  minute  in  a  shallow  vessel  containing  cold  water  to 
precipitate  the  "  grounds,"  after  which  the  coffee  clear, 
black,  and  sparkling  is  poured  into  the  cup.  For  this  1 
have  to  thank  Colonel  11.  M. 


The  last,  most  worthy,  recipe  of  all. 


JTlT   is  not  generally  known,  my  dear  Wyvern,"  -svrites 
Jm.      my  learned,  and  very  kind  friend   C.  S.,  "  tliat  the 
fumes  of  siilplinr  prevent  the  rapid  decomposition 
of  animal  matter,  and  that  a  fine  tender  mutton  chop  can 
be  had,  even  in  the  hottest  weather,  by  exposing  the  joint 
from  which  it  is  cut  to  the  fumes  of  burning  pastiles, 
placed  in  an  air  tight  box,  for  two  or  three  hours  after  the 
meat  is  brought  home  from  market.     A  joint  thus  treated 
will  keep  perfectly  for  thirty-six  hours,  even  in  Madras, 
and  be  found  deliciously  tender  the  day   after  it  was  pur- 
chased.    The  pastiles  should  be  composed  as  follows  : — 
Eight  parts  of  powdered  sulphur. 
One  and  a  half  part  of  powdered  charcoal. 
A  quarter  part  of  powdered  saltpetre. 
Mix  all  together,  and  make  them  into  pastiles,   adding, 
just  enough  gum  wat^r  for  the  purpose  ;   shape  them  like 
pyramids,  and  dry  them  in  the  sun.     A  roomy  box, — say 
a  three-dozen  case, — furnished  with  hooks  to  suspend  the, 
meat  by,  with  a  closely  fitting  door,  and  all  crevices  filled 
with  putty,  and  pasted  over  with  strips  of  strong  paper,  is 
the  sort  of   receptacle   you   require  for  the  fumigation. 
Suspend  the  meat,  place  two  or  three  pastiles  below  it,  light 
them,  close  the  door  securely,  and  leave  well  alone." 


Our  Kitchens  ni  India. 


(Reprinted,   hy  permission,  from   the   Madras   Mail.) 

EMEMBERIXG  as  we  all  can  so  well  the  cheerful 
aspect  of  the  English  kitchen,  its  trimness,  its 
comfort,  and  its  cleanliness,  how  comes  it  to  pass 
that  in  India  we  continue  year  after  year  to  be  fully  aware 
that  the  chamber  set  apart  for  the  preparation  of  our  food 
is,  in  ninety-nine  cases  out  of  a  hundred,  ilie  foulest  in  our 
premises — and  are  not  ashamed  ?  In  the  matter  of  uten- 
sils, and  the  general  accessories  of  culinary  work  also, — 
knowing  what  things  are  considered  essentially  necessary 
even  in  the  quietest  establishment  at  home, — why  are  so 
many  of  us  satisfied  with  an  equipment  regarding  the 
miserable  inadequacy  of  which  it  would  be  as  well  to  keep 
silence  ?  Why,  in  short,  in  the  one  country  are  we  scru- 
pulously careful  that  our  food  shall  be  clean,  and  in  the 
other  at  all  times  willing,  apparently,  to  eat  dirt  ? 

Over  and  over  again  have  revolting  facts  been  discover- 
ed in  connection  with  the  habits  and  customs  of  the  cook- 
room.  But  instead  of  striking  at  the  root  of  the  evil,  and 
taking  vigorous  action  to  inaugurate  reform,  we  are  abso- 
lutely callous  enough  not  only  to  tolerate  barbarisms,  but 
even  to  speak  of  the  most  abominable  practices  as  jests  ! 
Though  cognizant,  that  is  to  say,  of  the  ingenious  nastiness 
of  our  cooks,  we  shrug  our  shoulders,  close  our  eyes,  and 
ask  no  questions,   accepting   with   resignation    a   state  of 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA,  49" 


thines  which  we  consider  to  be  as  inevitable  as  it  is  dis- 


But  stop  a  moment  : — is  it  inevUahle  ?  Let  us  consider 
that  point.  The  fons  et  oriqo  jnali,  it  seems  to  me,  are  to 
be  detected  without  difficulty.  Think,  first  of  all,  of  the 
distances  which  as  a  rule  separate  our  kitchens  from  our 
houses,  and  the  fact  that  the  room  is  part  and  parcel  of  a 
block  of  godowns — not  unfrequently  within  easy  access  of 
the  stables.  Setting  aside  other  considerations  for  a  mo- 
ment, do  we  not  at  once  perceive  here  two  grave  evils  : — 
in  the  first  place  that  proper  supervision  of  the  kitchen  is 
almost  out  of  the  question  ;  and,  in  the  second,  that  pro- 
miscuous gatherings  of  outsiders, — the  friends,  relations, 
and  children  (a  fruitful  source  of  dirtiness)  of  our  servants, 
— can  take  place  in  it  undetected  ?  Again  :  the  room  is 
generally  constructed  with  as  little  ventilation  and  light 
as  possible,  its  position  w4th  regard  to  the  sun  is  never 
thought  of,  and  arrangements  for  its  pi-oper  drainage  are 
rare.  As  there  is  no  scullery,  or  place  for  washing  up,  &c., 
the  ground  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  kitchen  re- 
ceives the  foul  liquid  (as  well  as  all  refused  matter)  which 
is  carelessly  thrown  out  upon  it.  The  consequence  is  that 
hard  by  many  a  cook-room  in  this  Presidency,  there  is  a 
noisome  cesspool  containing  an  inky  looking  fluid,  the 
exhalations  from  which  can  scarcely  improve  the  more 
delicate  articles  of  food  which  are  sent  from  the  house  for 
preparation. 

Now  follow  me  into  the  room.  It  is  as  black  as  Erebus. 
The  pungent  smoke  from  yonder  wood  fire,  upon  which 
some  water  for  a  bath  is  being  boiled,  penetrates  every 
crevice.  There  is  no  chimney,  you  see,  so  the  wall,  up 
which  the  smoke  is  creeping  towards  an  opening  in  the 
roof,  is  lined  by  an  ancient  coating  of  soot.  Observe  tlie 
mass  of  patriarchal  looking  cobwebs  depending  from  the 


49S  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA. 


rafters,  and   the  floor  of  motlier-eartli,  gi-easy,  black,  and 
cruelly  uneven  in  its  surface. 

Pull  yourself  together  now,  for  we  are  about  to  examine 
the  kitchen  table.  It  is,  to  begin  ^vith,  a  piece  of  furni- 
ture ^vhicll  it  would  be  gross  flattery  to  call  a  dresser.  It 
is  small,  and  \cyj  rickety.  In  colour  it  is  a  remarkably 
warm  burnt  umber.  The  legs  which  support  it  arc  be- 
grimed with  dust  which  has  become  coagulated  from  time 
to  time  by  grease,  and  smoked  a  rich  sable.  If  you  wished 
to  do  so,  you  could  scrape  off  this  filtliy  tegument  with 
your  pen-knife  to  the  depth  of  the  sixteenth  of  an  inch. 
The  top  of  the  table  is  notched  and  scored  all  over  Avith 
wounds  inflicted  by  the  chopper,  the  edges  are  all  worn 
down,  and  there  are  tell-tale  marks  which  prove  that  it  is 
the  custom  of  the  chef  and  his  assistants  to  mince  parslc}', 
herbs,  onions,  aye  the  meat  itself  of  which  those  "chicken 
cutlets"  that  he  delights  to  give  you  are  made,  upon  the 
oily,  nut-brown  board. 

What  are  that  stone  sLab  and  roller  for,  with  traces  of 
last  night's  spinach  upon  them  ?  O  !  they  are  the  pet 
articles  de  cuisine  of  tunny-cutch  ammah  to  whose  delicate 
fingers  is  entrusted  the  making  of  chutneys,  and  all  pre- 
parations which  are  presented  to  you  in  the  form  of  pulp. 
The  boiled  vegetable,  or  whatever  it  may  be,  is  turned 
out  upon  the  slab,  and  she  rolls  the  pin  backwards  and 
forwards  until  the  desired  consistency  is  attained.  How 
does  she  scrape  the  rolling  pin,  and  the  edges  of  the  slab 
during  this  process,  and  how  does  she  dish  it  ?  Hush,  my 
friend,  there  is  not  a  spoo)i  in  the  l-itchen. 

Cast  your  eye  over  that  meagre  array  of  degchees  and 
of  sauce-pans  nearly  as  black  inside  as  they  are  outside, 
and  note  that  there  is  a  spit  there,  a  chatty  oven  in  yonder 
corner,  and — nothing  more.  There  is  no  cupboard,  neither 
is   there  a    rack  for   plates   and   dishes,  but   such    small 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  499 

etcetera  as  the  cook  uses  are  thrust  at  hajD-hazard  upon  that 
shelf,  ^hich,  in  gi^iminess,  you  see,  matches  the  table, 
whilst  it  comes  in  handily  for  his  turband,  and  the  folded 
leaf  containing  his  snuff.  You  have  seen  enough  now, 
and  look  as  if  you  wanted  a  brandy  and  soda,  so  let  us 
return  to  the  house. 

On  our  way  you  inveigh  against  native  filthiness,  &c., 
&c.  Come  now,  be  just  in  your  condemnations,  for  verily 
this  is  a  case  in  which  it  behoves  us  to  remember  the 
beam  which  is  in  our  own  eye,  before  we  seek  diligently 
to  pull  out  the  mote  which  is  in  our  black  brother's  eye. 
Who  is  really  to  blame  for  a  great  deal  that  I  have  shown 
you  ?  Is  it  the  cook's  fault  that  a  wretchedly  mean, 
carelessly  constructed  godown  is  given  him  for  a  kitchen  ; 
that  the  place  is  inconveniently  far  from  the  house,  and 
consequently  open  to  every  passer-by ;  that  the  furniture 
is  absolutely  nothing  more  than  one  table,  far  too  small 
for  culinary  requirements,  and  one  shelf ;  that  owing  to 
faulty  construction,  the  room  '  smokes'  dreadfully,  and 
that  there  is  scarcely  sufficient  light  in  it  to  detect  dirt  ? 
Is  it  the  cook's  fault  that  in  the  absence  of  proper  ap- 
pliances he  is  forced  to  practise  his  native  ingenuity, 
to  use  chatties  for  sauce-pans  and  stew-pans,  to  use  the 
*  curry-stone'  for  a  mortar,  his  cloth  for  a  sieve,  and  his 
fingers  for  a  spoon  or  fork  ?  Is  it  the  cook's  fault  that, 
since  no  plates  and  dishes  are  included  in  his  cook-room 
equipment,  he  has  no  alternative  but  to  place  meat,  vege- 
tables, &c.,  on  his  table;  and  that  being  without  a  mincing 
machine,  or  chopping  board,  he  uses  its  surface  in  lieu  of 
the  latter  ?  Why  instead  of  denouncing  the  unfortunate 
man,  I  make  bold  to  say  that  handicapped  as  he  is,  we 
have  positively  no  reason  to  expect  him  to  be  clean  ! 

Xow  I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  the  state  of  things  that 
I  have  endeavoured  to  sketch  obtains  in  every  Madras 
establishment,      On  the  contrary,  I  am  quite  sure  that  in 


500  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA. 


some  cases  the  utmost  trouble  is  taken  to  make  everything 
as  clean  and  as  nice  as  possible,  that  every  available 
appliance  is  given  to  the  cook  with  a  generous  hand,  and 
that  the  mistress  of  the  house  prides  herself  upon  visiting 
her  kitchen  and  seehnj  that  her  orders  are  carried  out.  Xo  : 
it  is  not  to  the  energetic  few  that  I  dedicate  these  com- 
ments, but  to  the  apathetic  many  who  actually  know  not 
what  they  do — to  themselves  and  to  their  friends — by 
permitting  the  preparation  of  their  food  to  take  care  of 
itself.  People  who  refrain  from  all  interference,  who  hand 
everything  over  to  their  butlers,  and  take  cleanliness  for 
granted,  do  so,  I  know,  sometimes  through  sheer  ignorance, 
sometimes  on  account  of  idleness,  and  sometimes  because 
they  are  not  physicallj-  cquiil  to  the  exertion.  I  frankly 
admit  that  the  labour  is  frequently  very  disheartening. 
It  strikes  me,  however,  that  if  reform  were  made  easier 
and  pleasanter,  many  who  are  now  content  to  let  things 
'  slide'  might  wake  up  and  become  enthusiastic,  while 
even  those,  who  do  not  know  what  trouble  means  in  the 
matter  of  perfecting  their  cuisine,  would  be  thankful  to 
find  their  daily  task  less  irksome.  Let  us,  therefore, 
briefly  consider  how  that  object  might  be  achieved. 

Taking  the  kitchen  itself  first :  why  on  earth  should  we 
continue  to  accept  as  places  fit  for  the  cooking  of  our  food 
the  dismal  hovels  that  are  attached  to  our  godowns,  and 
called  cook-rooms  ?  These  places  may  have  suSiced  for 
the  culinary  necessities  of  our  forefathers,  who  chiefly 
preyed  upon  curry  and  rice,  and  lived  to  all  intents  and 
purposes  a  la  mode  Indienne.  But  nous  avons  change  tout 
cela.  The  delicate  cookery  which  day  by  day  gains  popu- 
larity in  India  now  demands  a  clean  airy  room,  properly 
furnished,  with  plenty  of  light,  and  many  accessories 
borrowed  from  civilized  Europe. 

It  has  become  essential,  in  fact,  that  to  every  house 
there  should  be  attached  a  small  building  reserved  solely 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  501 

for  kitchen  work  and — nothing  else.  It  should  be 
quite  close  to  the  house,  and  connected  with  the  back 
verandah  by  a  covered  way.  It  should  be  constructed 
with  a  frontage  towards  the  north  or  south  so  that  the 
rays  of  the  morning  and  evening  sun  may  strike  its  sides. 
It  should  contain  three  rooms : — the  work-room,  the 
cooking-room,  and  the  scullery,  all  opening  into  a  good 
verandah. 

In  the  first,  the  food,  pastry,  &c.,  should  be  prepared  ;  it 
should  therefore  be  well  ventilated,  and  have  a  good  glass 
window  or  sky  light,  a  large  dresser,  a  marble  pastry  slab, 
a  rack  for  plates  and  dishes,  shelves  for  cups,  jugs,  bowls, 
&c.,  a  cupboard  for  culinary  stores,  and  a  gauze  meatsafe 
to  protect  meat,  &c.,  from  flies.  Communication  between 
this  room  and  the  cooking-room  should  be  shut  off  so  that 
no  smoke  could  find  its  way  into  it :  things  should  be 
carried  to  the  kitchen  via  the  verandah. 

The  cooking-room  should,  if  possible,  contain  an  English 
or  American  range.  Failing  that,  a  country-made  range 
upon  English  principles,  the  construction  of  which  I  will 
discuss  by-and-by.  It  should  be  well  ventilated,  well 
lighted,  and,  in  any  circumstances,  should  contain  a 
chimney.  A  table  for  dishing  up,  &c.,  would  be  required 
here,  and  also  racks  for  ladles,  dredgers,  &c.,  with  shelves 
for  the  utensils. 

The  scullery  being  merely  used  for  washing  up,  the 
drawing,  cleaning,  and  plucking  of  poultry,  and  work 
of  that  nature,  would  require  a  well  made  water-tight 
sink,  communicating  with  an  equally  carefully  made 
cistern,  covered  by  a  trap-door,  outside  the  building  : 
the  cistern  should  be  emptied  every  day,  and  well 
sprinkled  with  McDougall's  disinfecting  powder.  A  tap 
of  Red  Hills  water  in  the  scullery  would  bo  a  great  boon 
at  Madras. 


502  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA. 

Tlie  floor  of  room  number  one  might  be  of  chiinam  mat- 
ted over,  that  of  number  two  shoukl  be  paved  with  slabs 
of  stone,  and  a  similar  one  of  stone  should  be  laid  down  in 
the  scullery. 

The  day's  work  having  been  completed,  the  doors  of 
the  three  rooms  should  be  carefully  locked,  and  the  whole 
corps  de  cuisine  dismissed,  the  keys  being  brought  to  the 
mistress  of  the  house.  The  idea  of  the  kitchen  being 
used  by  a  number  of  native  employes  as  a  sleeping  cham- 
ber is  obviously  too  horrible  to  need  more  than  a  passing 
remark. 

The  two  chief  objections  tli:it  will  here  suggest  them- 
selves will  bo,  I  feel  sure,  on  the  one  hand  the  difficulty 
of  establishing  the  kind  of  kitchen  I  have  described,  and, 
on  the  other,  the  expense  of  equipping  it  according  to  the 
standard  which  obtains  in  England.  I  propose,  therefore, 
to  deal  with  those  points  independently,  taking  the  kit- 
chen first. 

The  little  building  that  I  advocate, — entirely  separat- 
ed from  the  godowns,  planned  specially  to  meet  culi- 
nary requirements,  close  to  the  house,  and  connected 
with  it  by  a  covered  way, — in  spite  of  its  niceness 
theoretically,  is,  I  admit,  practically  speaking  almost 
an  impossibility.  Few  owners  of  houses  'vould  go  to 
the  expense  of  a  new  building.  I  nevertheless  offer 
the  idea  to  those  who  are  about  to  build  de  novo^ 
and  to  such  of  my  fellow  countrymen,  who,  interested 
in  houses  that  they  have  purchased,  may  be  tempted 
to  make  their  "  offices"  as  complete,  and  as  home-like 
as  possible. 

In  what  way,  then,  can  anything  be  done  to  im- 
prove upon  matters  as  they  at  present  stand  ?  Well, 
a  great  deal,  of  course,  depends  upon  circumstances. 
There  are  a  good  many  houses  that  possess  small  build- 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  503 

ings  close  to  the  back  verandahs,  which,  I  presume,  were 
originally  intended  to  be  used  as  a  "  coolers'  godo^Yns," 
or,  perhaps,  for  the  hanging  of  meat.  Thej  cannot  be  of 
mnch  use  for  either  of  those  purposes  now-a-days,  for  the 
ancient  cooler's  "  occupation's  gone,"  and  the  modern  zinc- 
lined  safe  has  made  us  independent  of  a  larder.  It  seems 
to  me,  then,  that  some  of  these  little  places  might  be 
easily  converted  into  kitchens,  large  enough  at  all  events 
to  accommodate  one  of  the  small  yet  very  excellent  Anglo- 
American  cooking  ranges  now  procurable,  together  Avith 
its  accessories,  and  such  things  as  are  necessary  for  mere 
cooking.  A  place  for  washing  up  might  easily  be  con- 
trived on  one  side,  or  at  the  back  of  this  room,  and  a  light 
covered  way  might  be  thrown  up  cheaply  enough  to  con- 
nect it  with  the  house. 

Assuming  such  an  arrangement  feasible,  the  sacrifice  of 
some  small  back  room  on  the  ground  flour  of  the  house,  or 
the  walling  off  of  a  portion  of  the  back  verandah  would 
still  be  necessary  to  provide  the  "  working  room," — the 
room,  that  is  to  say,  in  which  all  food  should  be  'prepared 
prior  to  being  conveyed  to  the  kitchen.  This  I  may  call 
one  of  the  chief  points  of  the  system  I  advocate,  for,  I 
maintain,  that  for  numerous  undeniable  reasons,  the 
making  of  pastry,  the  dressing  of  meat  and  vegetables, 
and  the  mixing  of  sauces,  puddings,  &c.,  should  be  per- 
formed in  a  cool  place,  away  from  the  smoke  and  heat  of 
fires,  where  wand  and  dust  can  be  excluded  by  closing  the 
door,  and  yet  ample  light  be  obtained  from  a  good  glass 
window,  and,  above  all  things,  where  the  chef  can  be  easily 
supervised. 

To  illustrate  the  necessity  of  this  recommendation,  let 
us  imagine  that  a  cook,  accommodated  as  he  is  at  present, 
is  engaged  in  preparing  a  souffle,  or  some  equally  delicate 
entremets.  Of  a  sudden  a  blast  of  wind  drives  a  cloud  of 
dust   into  the  cook-room   through  the  door   (which  is  of 


504  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA. 


necessity  open  to  admit  light),  and  blows  myriads  of  fine 
particles  of  cliareoal  ashes  from  the  open  fire-places  over 
everything.  By-and-by  the  dish  is  served  at  dinner. 
Monsieur  le  mari  cheerfully  receives  liLs  portion,  but  pre- 
sently encounters  grit,  and  orders  his  plate  to  be  taken 
away,  murmuring  something  about  the  impolicy  of  petty 
economy  in  connection  with  flour.  Madame  la  chatelaine^ 
conscious  of  procuring  the  best  of  everything,  replies — 
more  in  sorrow  than  in  anger,  yet  withal  warmly — and 
denies  the  unkind  impeachment,  though  constrained  to 
send  her  plate  away  also.  And  thus  a  cloud  comes  over 
w^hat  ought  to  be  a  very  happy  tete-.i-tctey  while  indiges- 
tion, the  natural  result  of  irritation  at  meals,  most  pro- 
bably follows. 

Now  the  worst  of  it  is  that  unless  people  happen  to 
discover  the  real  causes  of  accidents  such  as  these 
themselves,  they  may  wait  until  doomsday  for  enlighten- 
ment. The  mental  equilibrium  of  the  native  cook  is  in 
no  wise  disturbed  by  a  dust  storm,  for  he  is  perfectly 
accustomed  to  tliem ;  and  the  butler  Avill  assuredly  invent 
a  plausible  excuse  for  the  contretemps  : — "  little  bit  yegg- 
shell,"  or  "  sugar  mistake."  It  therefore  comes  to  this, 
that  we  must  insist  upon  a  nicer  appreciation  of  the 
cleanliness  and  care  that  the  preparation  of  food  demands, 
and  to  accomplish  that  end  satisfactorily  a  room  of  the 
kind  I  have  described  appears  to  me  to  be  essentially 
necessary. 

I  am  perfectly  aware  that,  in  some  instances,  every 
species  of  obstruction  will  at  first  be  thrust  in  the  way  of 
those  who  try  to  follow  my  advice,  and,  in  others,  that 
the  change  will  be  obeyed  with  reluctance.  But  deter- 
mination and  tact  combined  will,  I  think,  overcome  opposi- 
tion after  a  time,  and  the  very  malcontents  themselves 
w411  end  by  praising  the  now  regime. 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  505 

It  is  downright  nonsense  to  say  that  native  cooks  cannot 
work  upon  English  principles.  They  manage  very  well 
on  boardship,  where  their  services  are  highly  prized,  yet 
their  appliances  are  wholly  European.  The  kitchen  at 
the  Madras  Club,  and  those  of  several  private  houses,  both 
here,  and  on  the  Hills,  are  fitted  up  entirely  upon  the 
Home  system,  yet  the  cooks  do  not  complain.  No  :  it 
seems  pretty  clear  that  if  no  other  alternative  present  it- 
self, Ramasamy  can  fall  into  the  way  of  using  a  range 
readily  enough. 

I  know  of  a  case  in  which  a  young  and  zealous  native 
chef  absolutely  begged  his  mistress  to  permit  him  to  pre- 
pare his  jellies,  pastry,  &c.,  in  a  spare  room  in  the  house, 
alleging  as  his  reason  that  the  kitchen  was  too  hot  and 
smoky  :  and  I  am  perfectly  sure  that  the  majority  of  good 
Madras  cooks  would  appreciate  a  similar  concession.  The 
reciisants  would,  in  all  probability,  be  gentlemen  who  have 
become  wedded  to  practices  whereof  their  consciences  are 
afraid.  Pilferings  of  all  kinds  would,  to  begin  with, 
become  far  more  difficult,  long  absences  would  be  soon 
detected,  work  properly  the  cook's  could  not  be  thrust 
upon  the  cook's  maty,  and  drinking  and  gossiping  during 
working  hours  would  be  knocked  on  the  head. 

The  furnishing  of  this  "  working  room"  could  be  man- 
aged without  much  trouble,  and  certainly  inexpensively,  in 
the  manner  already  mentioned : — with  a  dresser  of  strong 
wood,  a  pastry  table  with  marble  slab,  a  cup-board,  a  rack 
for  plates  and  dishes,  a  gauze  safe,  and  a  set  of  shelves. 
Delicate  operations,  such  as  the  composition  of  high  class 
sauces,  the  boiling  of  a  jelly,  or  the  simmering  of  fruit, 
could  be  carried  on  upon  a  mineral  oil  stove,  or  by  means 
of  a  charcoal  fire  placed  in  a  sheltered  corner  of  the  veran- 
dah close  to  the  room ;  and  such  articles  of  diet  need 
never  be  carried  into  the  kitchen  at  all.  But  when  pro- 
perly dressed,  and  prepared  for  roasting,  stewing,  boiling, 


506  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA 


baking,  &c.,  savoury  meats,  pastry,  and  puddings,  ^vould, 
of  course,  be  transported  to  the  cooking-room. 

In  cases  \rbere  there  is  no  isolated  building  near  the 
house  susceptible  of  conversion  into  a  kitchen,  the  cook- 
room,  such  as  it  may  be,  would  have  to  be  utilized ;  but  if 
properly  ventilated,  fitted  up  with  a  range,  racks,  tables, 
&c.,  frequently  inspected,  and  reserved  exclusively  for  the 
work  I  have  mentioned,  its  evils  might  surely  to  be  re- 
duced to  a  minimum. 

Another  great  thing  to  obtain,  to  my  mind,  is  a  really 
clean  place,  not  only  for  the  preparation  of  food,  but  also 
for  its  keeping  during  the  day.  Think  for  a  moment  of 
the  dish  of  neck  of  mutton  cutlets  that  the  cook  takes 
away  to  the  cook-room  at  10  a.m.,  after  his  mistress  has 
inspected  the  market  supplies.  The  cutlets  re-appear  at 
dinner  time,  it  is  true,  but  dare  we  consider  how  the  poor 
things  spent  their  day  before  the  hour  of  their  cooking 
arrived  ?  In  my  ideal  room  they  would  be  trimmed  im- 
mediately .  upon  a  clean  dresser,  flattened  with  the  cutlet 
bat,  and  then  arranged  neatly  upon  a  large  flat  dish, 
dusted  over  with  pepper  and  salt,  lightly  dredged  with 
flour,  and  consigned  till  wanted  in  the  gauze  safe  ;  or,  if 
so  required,  they  might  be  placed  in  marinade^  and  then 
put  away  beyond  the  reach  of  flies.  The  trimmings  would, 
of  course,  be  collected  upon  a  plate,  and  sent  out  to  the 
kitchen  for  the  production  of  broth  for  sauce. 

And  now  for  a  few  words  about  kitchen  ranges  and 
equipments.  Until  almost  the  other  day,  so  to  speak,  an 
English  range  was  regarded  as  too  expensive  a  luxury  for 
people  in  India  of  ordinary  means.  The  expenditure  of 
from  two  to  three  hundred  rupees  upon  such  a  thing  was 
looked  upon  as  an  extravagant  freak.  This  strange  opinion 
must  have  been  born  and  bred  in  Hindustan  a  generation 
or  more  ago,  and  handed  down  to  as  together  with  numer- 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  507 

ous  other  baseless  nostrums  in  the  usual  course  of  things  ; 
for  people  could  scarcely  have  forgotten — even  forty  years 
ago — that  dwellings  built  for  persons  of  three  hundred  a 
year  at  home  were  considered  uninhabitable  unless  equip- 
ped with  a  kitchen  range  that  at  least  cost  thirty  pounds. 

Of  course,  there  was  an  excuse  for  the  economy,  one 
indeed,  that  is  readily  pleaded,  I  dare  say,  to-day : — An 
English  range  would  be  thrown  away  upon  a  native  cook, 
he  could  never  appreciate  its  advantages,  and  would  fall 
back  upon  his  own  way  of  doing  things  the  moment  he 
was  left  to  himself.  With  this  ingenious  subterfuge  num- 
bers of  people  have  been  contented,  and  have  willingly 
closed  their  eyes  year  after  year  to  the  wastefulness,  and 
barbarity,  of  the  native  system. 

The  consequence  is  that  we  now  find  ourselves  in  a  some- 
what anomalous  position.  Whereas  our  taste  have  under- 
gone a  complete  change  for  the  better;  whereas  men  of 
moderate  means  have  become  hypercritical  in  the  matter 
of  their  food,  and  demand  a  class  of  cooking  which  was 
not  even  attempted  in  the  houses  of  the  richest  twenty 
years  ago, — our  kitchens  have  been  in  no  way  improved, 
neither  have  their  appliances  or  equipments  undergone  the 
change  that  is  necessary  to  keep  pace  with  the  requirements 
of  the  times.  Dinners  of  sixteen  or  twenty,  thoughtfully 
composed,  are  de  rigueur;  our  tables  are  prettily  decorated  ; 
and  our  meyiu  cards  discourse  of  dainty  fare  in  its  native 
French.  But  what  "  nerves''  we  all  have  to  be  sure  ! 
Could  we  but  raise  the  curtain,  and  examine  our  cook- 
rooms,  and  all  that  in  them  is,  just  before  we  lead  the  way 
to  the  banquet,  should  we  not  be  actually  dumb-foundered 
at  our  own  audacity  ? 

Setting  aside  the  things  which  I  have  already  enlarged 
upon,  it  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  not  one  Indian 
kitchen  in    twenty  possesses    a  proper  equipment.     The 


508  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA. 

hatterie  de  cidsine  of  people  with  incomes  of  two  thousand 
rupees  a  month,  and  more,  is  frequently  inferior  to  that  of 
a  "  humble  cottager  in  Britain,"  the  total  of  whose  means 
does  not  exceed  four  hundred  pounds.  But  while  the 
latter  lives  with  consummate  modesty,  and  thinks  his 
establishment  by  no  means  equal  to  the  strain  of  a  dinner 
party  of  six,  the  former  sits  down,  invites  five-and-twenty 
people  with  a  light  heart,  and  expects  everything  to  be  of 
the  best  ! 

The  nakedness  of  the  land  is  easily  discovered  at  the 
auctions  of  our  highest  officials,  where  the  contrast  between 
the  "  furniture  principally  by  Deschamps"  in  the  drawing- 
room,  and  the  "  few  useful  kitchen  sundries"  in  the  back 
verandah,  is  often  very  striking. 

The  loan  system  is  also  eloquent  of  the  inefficient  equip- 
ments of  our  neighbours.  To  meet  the  culinary  wants  of 
a  dinner  party  at  Robsons',  the  Dobsons'  ice-pail,  fish- 
kettle,  and  sieves,  are  requisitioned  ;  and  vice  versa,  when 
the  Dobsons  invite  their  friends,  the  Robsons'  kitchen  is 
pillaged  to  the  extent  of  a  border  mould,  a  ham  boiler,  and 
the  pastry  cutters. 

I  need  say  no  more  about  equipment's  :  those  who  are 
interested  in  the  matter  will  find  a  list  of  kitchen  neces- 
saries at  page  21. 

Having,  I  hope,  satisfactorily  demonstrated  that  a  kitch- 
en range  should  surely  find  a  place  in  the  category  of 
things  to  be  "  devoutly  wished  for"  by  all  w^ho  take  any 
interest  in  their  cuisine,  let  me  now  point  out  a  few  of  the 
advantages  to  be  derived  from  the  use  of  one. 

After  having  once  set  up  a  good  range,  the  purchaser 
ought,  in  the  first  place,  to  experience  a  marked  diminu- 
tion in  his  fuel  account.  The  native  cook's  objection  "  too 
much  firewood  taking"  is,  let  me  observe,  a  downright 
perversion  of  fact.     If   properly  understood,  and  utilized 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  509 

to  its  full  extent,  the  Englisli  range,  with  its  one  fire,  must 
surely  consume  less  fuel  than  do  the  numerous  open  fires 
in  an  Indian  cook-room.  This  is  self-evident.  According 
to  the  method  that  is  followed  in  the  latter  system,  a 
separate  fire  is  required  for  each  thing : — for  the  bath 
water,  the  kettle,  the  oven,  the  sauce  and  stew-pans,  &c., 
&c.  A  range  provided  with  a  hot-plate,  an  oven,  and  a 
boiler,  supplies  with  its  one  fire  all  these  wants  at  once. 
Vessels,  the  contents  of  which  require  rapid  boiling,  are 
placed  over  the  fire-hole,  while  things  needing  slow  treat- 
ment, like  soups,  stews,  &c.,  find  a  place  upon  the  hot- 
plate, or  flat  surface  of  the  range.  The  oven  is,  of  course, 
always  kept  hot,  and  the  boiler,  if  correctly  filled,  must 
contain  an  unceasing  supply  of  hot  water.  If  however 
these  opportunities  of  economy  be  neglected,  and  if  the 
cook  be  permitted  to  make  up  little  fires,  in  addition  to 
that  of  the  range,  here  and  there  in  the  kitchen  in  his 
native  fashion,  the  saving  in  fuel  will,  I  grant,  be  small. 

I  know  that  the  "  Duff's  cooking  ranges,"  which  are  set 
up  for  the  use  of  British  soldiers  in  the  barracks  of  this 
Presidency,  are  generally  condemned  by  the  men  as  re- 
quiring too  much  wood.  But  then  they  are  not  utilized 
in  a  way  by  which  economy  is  attainable.  T.  Atkins  re- 
quires no  soup  ;  he  is  not  particular  regarding  the  tender- 
ness of  the  stew  he  eats  ;  and  he  rarely  wants  hot  water. 
He  finds  the  oven  alone  necessary,  for  "  Jack,"  the  barrack 
cook-boy,  can  use  the  chatty,  the  grid-iron,  or  the  frying- 
pan,  in  the  verandah,  over  a  small  charcoal  fire,  with 
sufficient  cleverness  to  satisfy  his  many  masters.  Yet  the 
ranges  in  the  hospital  kitchens  are  thoroughly  appreciated. 
Hot  water  is  in  constant  requisition  there,  soup  must  be 
made  daily,  and  meat  has  to  be  very  carefully  cooked. 
In  order,  then,  to  find  English  ranges  economical  as  fuel 
consumers,  people  who  buy  them  must  take  care  that  they 
are  turned  to  their  proper  and  full  account. 

55 


610  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA. 

The  siiiierior  quality  of  the  food  cooked  -with  a  perfect 
appliance  of  this  kind  when  compared  with  tlie  best  results 
obtainable  by  the  native  system,  is  another  strong  recom- 
mendation in  favour  of  the  range.  Take  one  item  of 
daily  consumption — our  souj).  It  is  not  exaggeration  to 
say  that,  as  a  general  rule,  the  native  cook  takes  nearly 
double  the  amount  of  meat  and  bone  necessary  to  produce 
this  article  of  food.  His  doing  so  may  be  attributed,  of 
course,  in  a  gi'cat  measure  to  ignorance ;  but  he  can  also 
plead  as  an  excuse  the  want  of  a  proper  kitchen  equipment. 
His  practice,  if  left  to  himself,  has  been  explained  at  page 
41.  Now,  independently  of  the  ignorance  there  exposed 
of  the  elementaiy  principles  of  soup-making,  observe  the 
wanton  wastefulness  of  fuel. 

The  extraction  of  the  nutritive  elements  of  meat  and 
bone  requu-es,  we  all  know,  that  slow  process  of  cookery 
called  simmering — a  process  as  readily  canned  out  with  an 
English  range,  as  it  is  almost  impossible  with  the  open 
brick  and  mud  fire-places  of  the  cook-room.  At  least,  it 
stands  to  reason  that — be  the  tunny-cuich  never  so  careful 
— the  low  fire,  at  an  even  degree  of  temperature,  which 
simmering  requires,  can  scarcely  be  maintained  for  hours 
together  by  the  eye  and  hand  alone. 

With  a  range  in  oui-  kitchen,  therefore,  all  we  should 
have  to  do  would  be  to  explain  the  simmering  system,  and 
point  out  how  easily  it  can  be  managed.  Then,  as  soon  as 
the  native  cook  discovered  that  all  that  was  necessary  was 
to  pull  his  soup  kettle  so  many  inches  back  upon  the  hot- 
plate, he  would  do  so,  for  the  new  plan  would  not  interfere 
with  his  customary  absence  for  "rice."  In  the  end  wo 
should  get  a  soup  of  superior  quality  extracted  from  about 
half  the  quantity  of  meat  that  we  formerly  issued. 

In  like  manner  all  dishes  requiring  slow  cookery,  hashes, 
stews,  sauces, — even  our  curries,  which  are  often  sent  up 
tough  from  being  too  quickly  cooked,— would  be  easily 


OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  511 

prepared,  and  certainly  be  far  more  digestible.  The 
cleanliness  of  the  system  need  not  be  dwelt  upon,  smoke 
would  become  a  thing  unknown,  and  ashes  could  no  longer 
be  wafted  by  every  breeze  into  our  food. 

With  so  much  to  be  said  in  favour  of  the  kitchen  range, 
it  seems  strange  that  its  cost  should  be  considered  pro- 
hibitive by  so  many  well-to-do  people  in  India.  If  pro- 
perly used  the  economies  it  effects  must,  in  the  end,  repay 
its  purchase,  while  it  ought  to  be  at  all  times  a  very  sale- 
able article.  Why,  I  repeat,  should  we  hesitate  to  provide 
ourselves  in  India  with  an  appliance  that  in  England  is 
regarded  by  people  of  ordinary  respectability  as  a  common 
necessary  of  life  ? 

Ingenious  and  painstaking  persons  who  hesitate  to  go  to 
the  expense  of  an  English  range  may,  as  I  said  before, 
effect  a  material  improvement  in  their  kitchen  system  by 
putting  together  a  fire-place  upon  home  principles.  I  know 
of  a  case  in  which  an  experiment  of  this  kind  has  been 
crowned  with  success.  The  method  followed  may  be  briefly 
described  as  follows  : — 

A  fire  grate  was  first  contrived  by  iron  bars  in  the  style 
of  a  cresset,  rectangular  in  shape,  and  supported  on  four 
iron  props  ;  it  was  made  the  full  length  and  height  of 
an  English  kitchen  grate,  but  one-third  less  deep  at  back. 
Embedded  in  masonry  on  one  side  of  this  fire  grate  was 
an  iron  bazar -made  boiler  ;  the  side  of  it  nearest  the  fire 
had  no  masonry,  and  it  fitted  closely  to  the  iron  bars.  The 
boiler  was  furnished  with  a  brass  tap.  On  the  other  side 
of  the  grate,  set  firmly  in  masonry,  with  its  side  towards 
the  fire  exposed,  and  with  a  close  fitting  door  was  a  bazar- 
made  iron  oven.  The  props  of  the  cresset  fire-place  were 
set  in  masonry  and  cemented  ;  they  were  sufficiently  long 
to  sustain  the  fire  about  the  average  height  from  the 
ground  that  kitchen  fires  are  fitted  in  England.  Over  the 
top  of  the  fire  a  flat  sheet  of  iron  connected  the  surface  of 


512  OUR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA. 

the  oven  with  that  of  the  boiler,  forming  a  very  fair  hot- 
plate. This  iron  sheet  was  movable  at  pleasure.  The 
tojDmost  outer  bar  of  the  cresset  was  also  movable  to  allow 
a  space  for  the  admission  of  fuel  when  the  hot-plate  was 
fixed.  The  smoke  was  made  to  pass  into  a  flue  contrived 
with  a  few  feet  of  readj-made  stove  piping,  which  passed 
through  the  wall  of  the  kitchen  at  the  back  of  the  fire 
grate,  and  was  then  led  up  the  wall  to  the  roof. 

But  by  far  the  best  thing  introduced  in  this  locally  de- 
signed kitchen  was  an  English  roasting  "jack."  The 
"  jack"  itself  was  imported  from  home  at  a  cost  of  half 
a  sovereign ;  the  fire  screen,  and  dripping  pan  were 
made  by  the  bazar  tinman  ;  the  "  jack"  was  hung  from  a 
beam  fixed  in  the  wall  at  a  convenient  height  above  the  fire 
grate.  Every  joint  was  in  this  manner  roasted  more  Anrjlico. 
Dripping,  a  thing  previously  unknown  in  the  establish- 
ment, became  a  highly  valued  commodity  ;  and  the  meat 
was  invariably  sent  up  full  of  gravy,  and  with  that  crisp 
browning  that  can  only  be  obtained  by  carefully  roasting. 
A  little  more  charcoal  was  used  in  the  "jack"  system  than 
in  the  old  way  with  the  spit,  but  the  expense  was  more 
than  balanced  by  the  dripping  gained,  the  good  gravy,  and 
the  additional  juiciness  of  the  meat.  Charcoal  was  used 
for  roasting  work,  and  good  dry  wood  was  found  suflScient 
for  soups,  and  all  common  boiling  operations,  when  no 
roasting  was  needed.  The  strange  thing  was  that  both 
the  butler  and  the  cook  were  as  delighted  with  the  innova- 
tion as  children  with  a  new  toy.  I  hope  that  this  may 
encourage  some  of  my  readers  to  carry  out  a  similar 
scheme. 

I  have  spoken  of  the  American  cooking  stoves  fed  by 
mineral  oil,  in  Chapter  XXX.  The  popularity  of  these 
very  excellent  domestic  articles  is  increasing  daily,  and  I 
need  scarcely  point  out  their  value  in  the  reformed  kitchen 
system  that  I  have  endeavoured  to  discuss.     One  of  them 


OVR  KITCHENS  IN  INDIA.  513 

could,  for  instance,  find  a  place  in  the  indoor  "  working- 
room"  I  have  recommended,  and  provide  a  handy  little 
kitchen  for  all  delicate  operations,  especially  for  fancy 
baking. 

Finally  :  with  a  range  (if  possible),  and  with  an  ar- 
rangement, such  as  I  have  tried  to  describe,  giving  us  a 
clean,  nicely  equipped  room  for  the  preparation  of  our 
food,  and  a  kitchen,  entirely  separated  from  godowns  and 
stabling,  easily  accessible  from  the  house,  and  conse- 
quently continually  subject  to  scrutiny  and  wholesome 
discipline,  I  think  that  the  back-bone  of  the  evils  I  have 
spoken  of  would  be  broken,  ladies  would  find  the  super- 
vision of  their  domestic  economy  a  pleasure  rather  than 
a  penance,  and  we  should  be  able  to  congratulate  our- 
selves upon  having  really  laid  the  foundation-stone  of  true 
reform  at  last. 


iJsriDH]:^^. 


^i^cme  stove  the 

Do.        do.    working  of... 
Aitchbone  of  beef,  to  cure... 
Allemande  sauce 
Almond  (burnt)  Charlotte  Russe  of  (ice) 

Do.     milk  in  curries 

Do.      do.  in  mulligatunny 
American  **  canned"  fruits,  &c.     ... 
Anchovy  cream   ... 

Do.      toast     ... 

Do.        do.     made  at  the  table  ... 
Do.        do.     top-dressing  for 
Angel  puddings  ... 
Antipasto,  the  {hors  d'ceiivres) 
Aperture,  the  necessity  of,  in  pie-crust 
Apple  Charlotte  ... 
Apricot  cream  a  la  Moscovite 

Do.     cream  (iced  pudding) 

Do.     custard  ... 

Do.     sauce 
Artichoke  globe  {articJiaut) 


Do. 

do. 

a  la  Barigoule 

Do. 

do. 

a  TEspagnole 

Do. 

do. 

al'Italienne 

Do. 

do. 

a  la  Lyonnaise 

Do. 

do. 

a  la  maitre  d'hotel 

Do. 

do. 

a  la  moelle 

Do. 

do. 

a  la  poivrade 

Do. 

do. 

a  la  Provencale    ... 

Do. 

do. 

au  gratin 

Do. 

do. 

au  sauce  blanche,  or  bed 

lamel 


PAGE. 
316 

99 

369 
300 

309 
29 

334 
223 
224 
224 
436 
212 

274 

486 
408 
340 

387 
462 
149 
151 

151 
151 
150 
152 

151 
152 

150 

150&152 


516  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Artichoke  globe  bouchees                 ...  ...  ...  153 

Do.         do.     cold  to  treat           ...  ...  ...  152 

Do.         do.     en  coquilles            ...  ...  ...  344 

Do.         do.     fritters     ...              ...  ...  ...  150 

Do.         do.     on  toast...               ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.         do.     petits  pat6s  of        ...  ...  ...  153 

Do.         do.     sauce  for...              ...  ...  ...  89 

Do.         do,     scallops  of              ...  ...  ...  344 

Do.         do.     to  trim     ...              ...  ...  ...  150 

Do.         do.     stems  a  la  cardon...  ...  ...  161 

Do.        Jerusalem  {topinainbour)  ...  ...  148 

Do.             do.          a  la  Chetput...  ...  ...  149 

Do.             do.          au  gralin       ...  ...  ...  148 

Do.              do.           fritters            ...  ...  ...  149 

Do.             do.          mould  of        ...  ...  ...  149 

Do.            do.          petits  pates  of  ...  ...  153 

Do.             do.          ways  of  cooking  ...  ...  148 

Do.             do.          with  eggs      ...  ...  ...  236 

Asparagus  {asperges)         ...              ...  ...  ...  162 

Do.         en  branches    ...             ...  ...  ...  428 

Do.         peas...              ...             ...  ...  ...  163 

Do.         points               ...              ...  ...  ...  163 

Do.         points  on  toast                ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.         (tinned)            ...              ...  •••  ...  163 

Aspic  de  perdreaux            ...              ...  ...  ...  344 

Do.    jelly  to  make            ...              ...  ...  ...  386 

Aubergines  (brinjals)  ii  I'Espagnole  ...  ...  380 

Do.       au  gratin            ...              ...  ...  ...  452 

Australian  tinned  meats  ...             ...  ...  ...  324 


(^^acon  value  of  in  rechauffes       ,,,  ...  ...  174 

Bain-marie  pan  the            ...  ...  ...  ...  20 

Baked  crab           ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  460 

Do.  Drumstick  seeds      ...  ...  ...  ...  432 

Do.   Mushrooms                ...  ...  ...  ...  386 

Baking  concerning             ...  ...  ...  ...  261 

Do.     equipment  for          ...  ...  ...  ...  319 

Do.     stove  a      ...             ...  ...  ..  ,,,  315 

Ballotines  of  quails             ...  ...  ...  ...  338 

Bandecai  croustades           ...  ...  ...  ...  473 

Do.       in  salad              ...  ...  ...  ...  210 

Do.       toast    ...             ...  ...  .,,  ...  229 

Do.       Wyvevn's  way  {an  gratin)  ...  ,,,  436 

Barrie's  Madras  curry  powder,  &:c.  ...  ...  288 

Batter  for  frying...             ...  ...  ...                ^95  &  35^ 

Do.     in  r6chauff6s           ...  ...  ...  ...  175 


INDEX,  517 


PAGE. 

Bavarian  cream  with  cocoa               ...             ...  ...  374 

Bavaroise  de  cocoa  a  la  moderne    ...              ...  ...  374 

Beans,  broad  {/eves  de  niarais)      ...              ...  ...  165 

Do.     country                    ...              ...              ...  ...  165 

Do.         do.     a  la  bourgeoise        ...              ...  ...  165 

Do.     ¥vtx\c\\  (haricots  verts)        ...              ...  ...  137 

Bearnaise  sauce                  ...             ...             ...  ..,  337 

Bechamel    do.  ...               ...             ...  ...  ...  98 

Beef  and  mutton                ...             ...             ...  ...  102 

Do.  a  la  mode                    ...              ...              ...  ...  123 

Do.  brisket  to  cure           ...             ...             ...  ...  254 

Do.  fresh,  boiling  of         ...  ...              ...  ...  119 

Do.  grenadins  a  la  Bearnaise  ...  ...  ...  337 

Do.  olives         ...               ...  ...  ...  ...  424 

Do.  pressed     ...               ...  ...  ...  ...  255 

Do.  salt  boiling  of            ...  ...  ...  ...  115 

Do.  spiced        ...                ...  ...  ...  ...  255 

Do.  steak  and  vegetables  ...  ...  ...  461 

Do.    do.    and  oyster  pudding  ...  ...  ...  271 

Do.    do.    and  oyster  pie  ...  ...  ...  277 

Do.    do.  pie    ...                ...  ...  ...  ...  480 

Do,    do.  pudding             ...  ...  ...  ...  271 

Do.    do.  with  sorrel  puree  ...  ...  ...  484 

Do.  suet  in  pastry            ...  ...  ...  ...  262 

Do,  do.  to  clarify             ...  ...  ...  ...  262 

Beetroot  (Betterave)          ...  ,..  ...  ...  157 

Do.       leaves  edible       ...  ...  ...                157  &  225 

Beignets  d'ananas             ...  .,.  ...  ...  201 

Do.       d'artichaut           ...  ...  ...  ...  150 

Do.       d'aubergines  (brinjals)  ...  ...  ...  462 

Do.       d'avenches          ,,.  ...  ...  ...  419 

Do.       de  bananes         ...  ...  ...  ...  473 

Do.       de  peches            ...  ...  ...  ...  364 

Do.       de  topinambours  (fritters)  ...  ...  148 

Do.       souffles...             ...  ...  ...  ...  202 

Do.           do.  au  Parmesan  ...  ...  ...  202 

Bhindi,  see  bandecai         ...  ...  ...  ...  165 

Bigarade  sauce  for  wild  duck  ...  ...  ...  351 

Binegun,  see  Brinjal         ...  ...  ...  ...  165 

Bisque  de  grandes-crevettes  ...  ...  ...  403 

Do.  do  homard  (note) ...  ...  ...  ...  404 

Blanc    ...             ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  160 

Blanc-manger  a  la  vanille  ...  ...  ...  453 

Blanquette  of  fowl              ...  ...  ...  ...  439 

Boiled  chops       ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  121 

Do.    turkey     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  119 

Boiling...             ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  114 

6G 


518  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Boiling  a  ham     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  ii8 

Do.    common  errors  in...  ...  ...  ...  115 

Do.    fish        ...               ...  ...  ...  ...  55 

Do.    to  improve  flavour  of  ...  ...  ...  122 

Bombay  ducks...               ...  ...  ...  ...  220 

Do.        do.     with  curries  ...  ...  ...  306 

Do.       onions                   ...  ...  ...  ...  155 

Do.         do.     au  gratin  ...  ...  ...  155 

Boned  loin  of  mutton        ...  ...  ...  ...  439 

Bordelaise  sauce                 ...  ...  ...  ...  354 

Bouchees  de  bandecai  (croustades)  ...  ...  473 

Do.      d'upinards           ...  ...  ...  ...  395 

Do.      with  fish              ...  ...  ...  ...  59 

Boudins  of  pigeon              ...  ...  ...  ...  384. 

Do.      of  salmon              ...  ...  ...  ...  477 

Bouillabaisse     ...                ...  ...  ...  ...  58 

Bouilli                  ...                ...  ...  ...  ...37  &  490 

Do.  a  la  Milanaise           ...  ...  ...•  ...  49*' 

Bouillon              ...               ...  ...  ...  ...37  &  488 

Do.      court  for  fish         ...  ...  ...  ...  56 

Do.        do.    il  la  Nanlaise  ...  ...                .  56 

Do.      with  bouilli            ...  ...  ...  ...  490 

Braised  capon  ...                 ...  ...  ...  ...  435 

Do.      fresh  brisket         ...  ...  ...  ...  465 

Do.      hen  turkey            ...  ...  ...  ...  427 

Do.           do.          a  la  jardiniere      ...  ...  ...  379 

Do.       leg  of  mutton  a  la  chevrcuil  ...  ...  385 

Do.    loin  of  nuiltou        ...  ...  ...  ...  447 

Braising                ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  104 

Brawn,  a  good    ..,              ...  ...  ...  ...  256 

Do.    of  ox-head              ...  ...  ...  ...  256 

Do.    seasoning               ...  ...  ...  ...  257 

Brazilnut  milk  in  curries  ...  ...  ...  ...  300 

Bread  cases  for  entrees     ...  ...  ...  ...  361 

Bread-crumbing  cutlets,  &:c.  ...  ...  ...  68 

Bread  crumbs  to  store      ...  ...  ...  ...  56 

Bread-making    ...              ...  ...  ...  ..  317 

Do.       do.  things  required  for      ...  ...  ...  317 

Bread  (plain  loaf)              ...  ...  ...  ...  320 

Do.  sauce        ...             ...  ...  ,,.  ...  88 

Breads,  fancy     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  320 

Breakfasts  a  la  Fran^aise  ...  ...  ...  185 

Breast  of  mutton  a  la  Wyvern        ...  ...  ...  451 

Brine  for  pickling  meat    ...  ...  ...  ...  251 

Brinjal  toast        ...             ...  ...              ...  ...  230 

Brinjals  h,  I'Espagnole       ...  ...  ...  ...  380 

Do.    au  gratin                 ...  ...  ...  ...  45 


INDEX.  519 


PAGE. 

Brinjals  chutney 

305 

Do.      fritters   ... 

365 

Do.      in  salad... 

217 

Broiled  cutlets    ... 

60 

Broiled  seer  en  papillotes... 

58 

Brunoise  soup     ... 

359 

Brussels  sprouts  (chotix  de  Bruxelles) 

143 

Do.          do.       a  la  creme 

144 

Do.           do.        a  la  Lyonnaise     ... 

143 

Do.          do.       a  la  maitre  d'hotel 

143 

Do.          do.       a  la  poulette 

144 

Do.          do.     au  beurre 

143 

Do.          do.     au  jus 

143 

Burnt  almond   (praline) 

369 

Do.  sugar  colouring  (caramel)     ... 

35 

Butter  fancy 

216 

Do.    fancy  rules  for  making 

2l5 

Do.    green 

217 

Do.    home  made  expense  of 

73 

Do.    in  pastry 

262 

Do.    maitre  d'hotel 

82 

Do.    necessity  of  in  cookery 

73 

Do.    tinned,  value  of     ... 

74 

Buttered  eggs 

235 

Do.      egg  toast 

225 

Do.       do.    with  anchovy  toast  ... 

224 

Do.       do.    with  fish  toast 

231 

Do.       do,    with  spinach  toast   ... 

228 

^^abbage  au  sauce  blanche 

142 

Do.     in-pot-au-feu 

143 

Do.     leaves  with  forcemeat  {farcis) 

142 

Do.     stew'ed... 

141 

Do.     with  rice  and  gravy 

142 

Cabbages  (Choux)  to  prepare  for  dressing  ... 

140 

Do.        to  steam 

140 

Do.        with  rice 

142  &  246 

Cafe  a  la  Turque 

495 

Do.     au  lait      ... 

494 

Do.      noir 

494 

Camp  soups  au  maigre     ... 

321 

Do.     do.     consomme  a  la  Julienne 

322 

Do.     do.     fowl  stock  for 

323 

Do.     do.     miscellaneous  stock  for 

324 

Do.     do.     tinned 

324 

Canapes 

188  &  215 

520  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Canapes  de  becassines      ...  ...  ...  ...  376 

Do.       de  caviare            ...  ...  ••.  ...  417 

Canard  sauvage                  ...  ...  ...  ...  485 

Caneton  aux  petils  pois   ...  ...  ...  ...  468 

Caper  sauce       ...                •..  ...  ...  ...  81 

Capon  a  la  Fran^aise         ...  ...  ...  ...  350 

Do.    braised  with  turnip  puree  ...  ...  ...  435 

Do.    galantine  of            ...  ...  ...  ...  405 

Do.    stuffing     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  108 

Do.    with  cauliflower      ...  ...  ...  ...  356 

Careme  sauce      ..               ...  ...  ...  ...  457 

Caramel  colouring              ...  ...  ...  ...  35 

Cardes  poirees    ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  161 

Cardoons  a  la  moelle         ...  ...  ...  ...  161 

Do.      to  imitate            ...  ...  ...  ...  161 

Carre  de  mouton  farci       ...  ...  ...  ...  400 

Carrots  (carotfes)                 ...  ...  ...  ...  154 

Do.     h  la  Flamande      ...  ...  ...  ...  154 

Do.     a  la  Nivernaise     ...  ...  ...  ...  154 

Do.     glaces     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  153 

Do.     soup        ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  48 

Do.     to  trim    ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  154 

Cases  bread         ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  363 

Do.  china         .•              ...  ...  ...  ...  72  &  363 

Do.  paper        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  363 

Do.  potato        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  344 

Do.     rice          ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  383 

Casseroles  de  r'lz  (to  make)  ...  ...  ...  383 

Do.     of  prawns              ...  ...  ...  ...  383 

Cassolettes  h  la  financiere  ...  ...  ...  343 

Do.         to  make  of  potatoes  ...  ...  ...  343 

Cauliflower  (cJioii-fleur)  to  prepare  for  cooking  ...  144 

Do.         au  gratin  (Italian)  without  cheese  ...  145 

Do.         au  gratin  with  cheese  ...  ...  ...  145 

Do.         boiled                 ...  ...  ...  ...  144 

Do.         different  ways  of  serving  ...  ...  144 

Do.         plain  boiling  of  ,..  ...  ...  145 

Do.         to  trim                ...  ...  ...  ...  144 

Caviare  toast       ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  417 

Celery  (ceieri)     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  159 

Do.     a  la  moelle              ...  ...  ...  ...  161 

Do.     a  1'  Espagnole        ..  ...  ...  ...  156 

Do.     to  stew  in  blanc      ...  ...  ...  ...  159 

Do.     wi'Ji  butter  (entremets)  ...  ...  ...  407 

Champignons  au  gratin  ...  ...  ...  ...  386 

Chapelure            ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  71 

Charlotte  a  la  Sicilienne  (ice)  ...  ...  ...  357 


INDEX,  521 


PAGE. 

486 
486 
369 
362 

443 
463 

378 

395 

368 

401 
146 
202 
482 
214 
248 

83 

214 

35 

477 

399 

416 

278 

378 

378 

336 

421 
294 

450 

477 

-^68 

147 

91 

381 

419 
428 

436 

I2i 

408 

305 

306 

305 

306 
306 
306 
306 

305 

Chutneys  Barrie's,  Madras      ...     ...     ...     288 


Charlotte  de  bananes 

Do. 

de  pommes 

Do. 

Russe  au  praline  (ice) 

Chateaubriand  sauce 

Chaud-froid  a  la  belle  alliance 

Do 

1.         de  foie  gras   ... 

Do 

>.         of  fowl  a  la  Palestine. 

Dc 

\.         of  fruit 

Dc 

>.          of  snipes 

Cheese-cakes,  lemon 

Cheese 

biscuits  ... 

Do. 

beignets  souffles  of 

Do. 

cream 

Do. 

fingers    ... 

Do. 

fondue    ... 

Do. 

sauce  (Milanaise) 

Do. 

service  of 

Do. 

do.      with  soups... 

Chetpu 

t  sauce     ... 

Chicke 

n  a  la  St.  Lambert... 

Do. 

a  la  Villeroy 

Do. 

and  tongue-pie  ... 

Do. 

chaud-froid 

Do. 

do.      do.  sauce 

Do. 

cream  {entree) 

Do. 

croquettes  of        ... 

Do. 

curry     ... 

Do. 

fritot  of 

Do. 

quenelles  of 

Do. 

souffle  ... 

Chicor^e  (endives) 

Chives, 

,  equivalent  of 

Chocolate  cream  ice  {parfait) 

Do. 

icmg^... 

Do. 

souffle... 

Cholum  birds  (our  ortolans) 

Chops 

boiled 

Do. 

pickled    ... 

Chutney  (fresh)  brinjal     ... 

Do. 

do.      cocoanut... 

Do. 

do.      cucumber 

Do. 

do.      mango     ... 

Do. 

do.      mashed  potato 

Do. 

do.      mint 

Do. 

do.      tamarind,.. 

Do. 

do.      tomato     ... 

522 


INDEX. 


PACK. 


Chutneys,  service  of 
Civet  de  lievre  (jugged  hare) 
Claret  jelly 

Clarified  suet  for  pastry    ... 
Clarifying  soup  ... 
Clear  fish  soup    ... 
Do.   giblet  soup 
Do.    mock  turtle 
Do,    ox-iaW  {qttezie  de  been/) 
Do.    prawn  soup 
Do.   soup  Ji  la  Royale     ... 
Do.     do.    of  partridges  ... 
of  snipes 

with  asparagus  points  ... 
with  carrots     ... 
with  crusts 
with  lettuce     ... 
with  maccaroni 
with  poached  eggs 
with  quenelles 
flower  stalks  a  1'  asperges 

do.      toast 
chutney 
milk    ... 
Cod's  roe  toast    ... 
Code  of  rules  for  soup-making 
Coffee-making     ... 
Cold  fish,  rechauffes  of 
Do.  meat  slices  like  cutlets 
Do.  vegetables,  rechauffes  of 
Colouring  soup    ... 
Conserve  of  tomato 
Consomm6 

Do.       a  la  Royale 
a  I'Estragon 
au  maccaroni     ... 
aux  oeufs  poches 
aux  pates  d'ltalie  (note)... 
aux  pointes  d'asperges    ... 
aux  quenelles     ... 
d'abatis  (giblet) 
de  becassines    ... 
de  grandes-crevettes 
de  laitue 

de  perdreaux     ... 
de  poisson 


Do. 

do. 

Do. 

do. 

Do. 

do. 

Do. 

do. 

Do. 

do. 

Do. 

do. 

Do. 

do. 

Do. 

do. 

Cocoa 

nut 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Cooked  vegetables  in  salads 


INDEX.  523 


PAGE. 

Coquilles  (scallop  shells)  use  of 

176 

Do.       d'artichauts 

152  &  346 

Cotelettes  a  la  Maintenon 

373 

Do.       a  la  Milanaise  ... 

427 

Do.       a  la  Moscovite  ... 

348 

Do.       a  la  Nivernaise 

154 

Do.       a  la  Reforme    ... 

360 

Do.       a  la  Valois 

379 

Do.       au  creme  de  fromage 

355 

Do.       au  macedoine  ... 

431 

Do.       au  pure  d'oseille 

404 

Country  vegetables 

165 

Courge  a  la  moelle  au  gratin 

466 

Do.           do.     to  cook 

155 

Court  bouillon 

55 

Do.       do.      a  la  Nantaise 

56 

Crab  au  gratin 

460 

Do.  coral  butter 

218 

Do.  mock 

219 

Do.  mock  toast            .    ... 

232 

Cream  cheese 

214 

Do.    Garibaldi 

432 

Do.     in  salad    ... 

209 

Do.    in  soups    ... 

45 

Cr^cy  soup 

49 

Creme  d'anchois 

343 

Do.  de  fromage 

482 

Do.     de  pistaches  glac^e 

345 

Do.     de  riz  aux  haricots  verts     ... 

467 

Do.     de  volaille  truffee... 

336 

Do.     d'orge     ... 

398 

Crepes  (pancakes) 

175 

Crepinettes  de  poisson 

426 

Do.        de  volaille 

392 

Cromesky,  the     ... 

199 

Croquettes  of  chicken  aux  pointes  d'asperges 

421 

Do.        of  duck 

354 

Do.        to  crumb 

71 

Croustades  de  bandecai    ... 

473 

Do.         de  champignons 

487 

Do.         de  grandes  crevettes 

455 

Do.         defoiegras     ... 

435 

Do.          of  rabbit 

361 

Do.         de  truffes  a  I'Espagnole 

487 

Croutes  au  pot    ... 

475 

Do.     d^ananas 

410 

Do.     a  FAvenches 

420 

;24  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Croxitons              ...             •••  •••             ■•.  ...  49 

Crumbs  for  cutlets             ...  ...              ...  ...  67 

Do.     do.  croquettes        ...             ...              ...  ...  71 

Do.      to  keep  a  supply  of             •..             ...  ...   28  &  56 

Crust,  pie               ...            •••              ••■              •••  •••  265 

Do.     French        ...            •••  •••              •••  •..  268 

Do.       do.       raised         •••  •••              ••.  ...  266 

Do.     (pork)  pie    ...           •••  ••■              ••.  ...  267 

Cucumbers  (concombres)-..               ■•              ...  ...  156 

Do.       toast      ...           •..  •••             ...  ...  229 

Do.       (to  cook)            •..  ...              ...  ...  156 

Do.       stewed                ••.  ••.              ...  ...  300 

Do.       stuffed                •■•  •..              ...  ...  157 

Curds  to  make  for  cheese  cakes  •..              ...  ...  491 

Cure's  omelette,  the           ...  •..              ..•  ...  183 

Curing  tongues,  &:c ,  rules  for  ..•              -..  ...  252 

Curries  ...                •••           ...  •••              •••  -•  285 

Do.  almond  milk  in      ...  ...              ...  ...  290 

Do.   butter  necessity  of  in  ...  ...  ...  289 

Do.  cocoanut  importance  of  in    ...              ...  ...  290 

Do,         do.       milk  for  ...  ...              ...  ...  290 

Do.  flavouring  leaves  used  in  ...               .■  ...  290 

Do.  gravy  to  assist        ...  ...              ...  ...  290 

Do.  green  ginger  in      ...  ...  ...  ..  293 

Do.   knotty  points  in      ...  ...              ...  ...  287 

Do.  lost  art  of  making  ..  ...  ...  ..  285 

Curry  Ceylon  (or  Malay)  ...  ...  ...  297 

Do.        do.       cocoanut  milk  for  ...  ...  ...  299 

Do,        do,       condiments  for  ...  ...  ...  300 

Do.        do,       cucumber  to  prepare  for  ...  ...  300 

Do.       do.       prawns  to  prepare  for  ...  ...  300 

Do.     chicken     ...             ,..  ...  ...  ...  294 

Do.     dry             ...               ...  ...  ...  ...  295 

Do.     kubab        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  303 

Do.     paste  recipe  for        ...  ...  ...  ...  293 

Do.       do.     value  of        ...  ...  ...  ...  293 

Do,     powder,  a  stock  receipt  for  ...  ...  291 

Do.         do.     Barrie's,  Madras  ...  ...  ...  288 

Do.         do.     hints  for  making  ...  ...  ...  291 

Do.         do.     ingredients  for  ...  ...  ...  291 

Do.         do.     London  made  ...  ...  ...  288 

Do.     quoorma  ...              ,..  ...  ...  ...  303 

Custard  a  la  surprise  (tipsy  puddmg)  ...  ...  424 

Do.     apricot  ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  387 

Do.     savoury,  as  top-dressing  for  toast  ...  ...  222 

Cutlets  a  la  Reforme         ...  ...  ...  ,.,  360 

Do.     to  bread-crumb     ...  ...  ,.,  ...  6j 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 


Cutlets  to  grill    ... 
Do.     to  marinade 
Do.     to  stew    ,.. 
Do.     to  trim     ... 
Do.     veal  to  lard 


.arnes  de  seer  a  la  Perigueux 
Dejeuner  a  la  fouichette  ... 
Devilled  ham 
Dil  pussund  (young) 
Dinde  braisee  a  la  jardiniere 

Do.     do.      au  chou-fleur 
Dinner  rolls 
Domestic  *  pasty'  a 
Dried  haricot  beans 
Drumstick-seed  toast 

Do.  do.  au  gratin 

Dry  curry 
Duchesse  pudding 
Duchesses  potato 
Duck  croquettes  a  la  Bordelaise 

Do.    stuffing 

Do.    wild 

Duckling  and  peas 
Dutch  cheese  in  cookery  ... 

Do.     sauce 
D'Uxelles,  or  fines  herbes... 
Do,       sauce... 


cl^au  de  cuisson  (vegetable  stock) 
Eels  stewed 

Do.  to  cook 
Egg  and  cream,  a  savoury  custard  of  for  toast 

Do.  toasts  to  vary 
Eggs  buttered 


Do. 

do. 

on  toast     ... 

Do. 

do. 

with  anchovy  toast ... 

Do. 

do. 

with  cheese 

Do. 

do. 

with  fish  toast 

Do. 

do. 

with  spinach  toast  ... 

Do. 

in  sauces  for  thickening 

Do. 

in  soups 

... 

Do. 

poached 

on  toast  with  cream... 

Do. 

snow 

...             ...             ... 

Do. 

to  cook 

m  various  ways 

.. 

67 

,, 

66 

.. 

67 

,, 

66 

•• 

68 

342 

•• 

185 
220 
166 

379 
427 

319 
277 
166 

230 
432 
295 
456 

] 

30  &  461 

.. 

354 

,, 

110 

.. 

485 

... 

468 

.. 

232 

.. 

89 

,. 

100 

•• 

100 

139 

&  312 

416 

., 

324 

.. 

224 

.. 

225 

.. 

235 

.. 

225 

.. 

224 

.. 

236 

,, 

231 

.. 

228 

.. 

lOI 

.. 

45 

.. 

224 

.. 

345 

from  234 

to  240 

h7 

526  INDEX. 


PAGE. 


Eggs  with  cream  ..             ...  ...  ...  ...  236 

Do,   with  Jerusalem  artichokes      ...  ...  ...  239 

Endive  {chicoree)  ...  ...  ...  147    ^  47<'^ 

Entrees,  classification  of   ...  ...  ...  ...  61 

Do.     garnishing  of        ...  ...  ...  ...  75 

Do.     iced  value  of         ...  ...  ...  ...  63 

Do.     place  of  in  the  menu  ...  ...  ...  6 

Do.     of  pastry                 ...  ...  ...  ...  72 

Do.     selection  of            ...  ...  ...  ...  62 

Do.     5oc/e  (or  stand)  for  ...  ...  ...  75 

Epigrams  of  mutton          ...  ...  ...  ...  366 

Epinards  a  la  creme          ...  ...  ...  ...  146 

Equipment,  for  baking  at  home      ...  ...  ...  319 

Do.         kitchen           ...  ...  ...  ...  21 

Errors  in  toasting  bread   ...  ...  ...  ...  222 

Espagnole  sauce                ...  «.•  •••  ■••  96 

Do.          do,    descendants  of      ...  ...  ...  97 

Essence  of  fowl  ...             ...  ...  .,.  ...  98 

Do.      of  game                 .,.  ...  ...  ...  99 

Do.      of  mushrooms       ...  ...  ...  ...  100 

Do.      of  truffles              ...  ...  ...  ...  100 


''ancy  butter    ...             •••  •••  •••  ...  216 

crab  coral  ...  ...  ...  ...  218 

fish  in         ...  ...  ...  ...  218 

green          ...  ...  ...  ...  217 

hard  boil  eggs  in  ...  ...  ...  218 

herring  roes  in  ...  ...  ...  376 

lobster        ...  ...  ...  ...  218 

maitre  d'  hotel  ...  ...  ...  82 

prawn        ...  ...  ...  ...  217 

Fennel  sauce      ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  81 

Fig  pudding        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  469 

Fillets,  concerning              ...  ...  ...  ...  64 

Fillet  of  beef       ...            ...  ..»  •••  ...  64 

Do.         a  la  Bearnaise  ...  ...  ...  337 

Do.         ii  r  Italienne  ...  ...  ...  189 

Do.         aux  haricots  verts  ...  ...  ...  394 

Do.         in  jelly            ...  ...  ...  ...  465 

Do.         with  anchovy  cream  ...  ...  ...  343 

Do.         with  sorrel  pur6c  ...  ...  ...  484 

Fillets  of  mutton                 ...  ...  ...  ...  64 

Do.  of  fowls  and  game  ...  ...  ...  64 

Do.  fish  in  curry             ...  ...  ...  ...  302 

Do.  of  hare     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  5^ 

Do.  of  partridges  in  jelly  ...  ...  ,.,  385 


INDEX, 


527 


Do. 

of     do. 

Do. 

of     do. 

Do. 

of     do. 

Do. 

of     do. 

Do. 

of     do. 

Do. 

of  rabbits 

Do. 

of     do. 

Fillets  of  pigeon  a  la  Genevoise 
Do.  of  pomfret  a  la  Venitienne  ... 
h,  la  poulette 
aux  capres 
aux  fines  herbes... 
en  ragout... 
with  parsley  sauce 

al'Italienne 
Do.  of  snipe  en  chaud  froid 
Do.  of  soles  k  la  pauvre  homme... 
Do.  of  teal  k   la  Wyvern 
Do.  of  whiting  a  1*  Americaine  ... 
Do.  of     do.      sauce  piquante   ... 

Financi^re  sauce 

Fines  herbes  {D'Uxelles)  ... 

Do.       do.      sauce 

Do.       do.      vinegar 

Fish  h  la  broche... 

Do.  au  bleu 

Do.  au  gratin    ... 

Do.  broiled  en  papillotes... 

Do.  cold  [en  rechauffe)   ... 

Do.  curry 

Do.  fresh  water... 

Do.  fritters  (pounded)     ... 

Do.  gravies  chablis  with,  &:c. 

Do.   Madras,  description  of  ... 

Do.  in  the  menu 

Do.  jugged 

Do.  pounded  with  batter 

Do.  pates  {rechauffe)       ... 

Do.  pie 

Do.  preserved,  toasts  of ... 

Do.  rolled  in  pancakes  {crepes)     ... 

Do.  the  salad  not  to  accompany    ... 

Flageolets 

Fleurons  of  pastry 

Florence  stove  the  (note),.. 

Florican,  to  roast  a 

Flour  potato  to  make  for  souffles    ... 

Foie  gras,  croustades  de  ... 

Do.    do.    fillets  of  [chaud-froid)     ... 

Do.    do.    forcemeat 

Do.    do.    on  toast 

Do.    do.    pain  de 

Fonds  d'artichauts  a  la  barigoule  ... 


PAGE. 

354 
378 
366 
467 
438 
64 
445 
368 

445 
446 
404 
420 
98 

ICO 

81,  100 
206 
58 
56 
57 
58 
168 

299 
324 
175 

99 
333 

53 
121 

175 
171 

283 
230 
175 
41 
139 
146 

315 
485 
413 
435 
462 
70 
226 
429 
151 


528  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Fonds  d'artichauts  a  la  bechamel  ...  ...  ...  152 

Do.               do.          h  la  creme  ...  ...  ...  152 

Do.             do.         al'Espagnole  ...  ...  ...  151 

Do.             do.          a  ritalienne  ...  ...  ...  151 

Do.              do.          a  la  Lyonnaise  ...  ...  151 

Do.              do.          ji  la  maitre  d'hotel  ...  ...  150 

Do.             do.         a  la  moelle  ...  ...  ...  152 

Do.             do.         au  gralin  ...  ...  ...  150 

Do.              do.          cold  treatment  of  ...  ...  152 

Do.              do.          enliers  ...  ...  ...  151 

Do.             do.          to  trim  ...  ...  ...  151 

Fondue,  the         ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  248 

Do.     Brillat  Savarin's  ...  ...  ...  ...  249 

Forcemeats         ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  no 

Do.       for  game-pie     ...  ...  ...  ...  281 

Do.       for  galantines  ...  ...  ...  ...  406 

Do.       in  rabbit-pie      ...  ...  ...  ...  278 

Do.       of  liver  a  la  foie  gras  ...  ...  ...  70 

Fowl  a  I'Americaine          ...  ...  ...  ...  4^" 

Do.    a  la  Villeroy              ...  ...  ...  ...  4^6 

Do.    boiled  in  the  soup  slock  ...  ...  ...  116 

Do.    grilled         ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  475 

Do.    jugged  with  vegetables  ...  ...  ...  121 

Do.    or  chicken  essence  ...  ...  ...  ...  98 

Do.    roasting  of  a              ...  ...  ...  ...  107 

French  beans  (Aar/Vo/^  r^/-/'^)  ...  ...  ...  137 

Do.       do.     a  la  creme  ...  ...  ...  ...  138 

Do.       do.     au  fines  herbes  ...  ...  ...  138 

Do.       do.     au  lard         ...  ...  ...  ...  138 

Do.       do.     au  creme  de  fromage  ...  ...  138 

Do.       do.     au  sauce  blanche  ...  ...  ...  138 

Do.       do.     in  the  jar    ...  ...  ...  137  &  338 

Do.       do.     panaches     ...  ...  ...  ...  139 

Do.       do.     tinned           ...  ...  ...  ...  164 

Do.       do.     wrong  trimming  of  ...  ...  ...  137 

French  rolls         ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  319 

Fresh  chutneys   ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  304 

Fricandeau  of  beef             ...  ...  ...  ...  422 

Fried  bread  sippets  {croutois)  ...  ...  ...  49 

Fritot  de  volaille...             ...  ...  ...  ...  449 

Fritters  (beignets)               ...  ...  ...  ...  195 

Do.     batter  for              ...  ...  ,.,  ...  198 

Do.      fruit       ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  201 

Do.     oyster     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  200 

Do.      pancake...             ...  ...  ...  ...  198 

Do.      prawn  pounded    ...  ...  ...  ...  201 

Do.      rules  for  frying     ...  ...  ...  ...  196 


INDEX, 

529 

PAGE. 

Frying,  concerning 

196 

Do.     fish 

56 

Do.     medium  ... 

196 

Do.     pans  concerning   ... 

20   &    196 

^"l^alantine  of  capon  or  turkey    ... 

405 

Do.           of  quails 

338 

Game  essence     ... 

98 

Do.     pie 

269   &    281 

Do.     do.  forcemeat  for    ... 

281 

Do.     do.  raised... 

269 

Do.     soup 

50 

Do.     toast 

228 

Garibaldi  cream... 

432 

Garnish  for  pie-tops 

273 

Gateau  de  pistache 

442 

Do.     Napolitian 

429 

Gelee  aux  fruits  ... 

356 

Do.  de  Bordeaux 

380 

Do.  de  prunes  ... 

351 

Genevoise  sauce... 

372 

Genoises  au  chocolat 

418 

Gherkin  sauce     ... 

82 

Giblet  soup 

430 

Giblets  not  to  be  used  as  garnish  ... 

467 

Gigot  a  la  Bretonne 

116 

Do.    brais6  a  la  chevreuil 

385 

Glaze  to  make    ... 

254 

Glazed  carrots    ... 

154 

Do.     onions    ... 

155 

Do.     turnips  {navets  glaces) 

153 

Gooseberries  with  gelatine  (cold)  ,.. 

465 

Goose  roast 

431 

Do.     do.  sauce  for 

431 

Do.     stuflfing  ... 

III 

Gouffe's  classification  of  sauces      ... 

95 

Do.     fundamental  sauces 

95 

Gravy  for  a  pie  made  out  of  scraps 

273 

Do.     for  pies,  a  sine  qua  non 

273 

Do.     soup  {pot-au-feit) 

31 

Grenadins  de  bceuf  a  la  B^arnaise 

337 

Green  butter 

215 

Do.      do.     with  herring  roes 

376 

Greengages  in  cream 

369 

Green  peas  to  cook  variously 

...  135,  136 

Do.         with  butter    ... 

135 

I 


530  INDEX. 


Greens,  country 

Do.      country  on  toast  ••. 

Do.       to  serve  in  various  ways    ... 

Do.      on  toast 

Do.      puree  of 
Grilled  fowl  (Wyvern's  way) 
Guinea  fowl  (pintade)  with  watercress 

■i^am  of  mutton 
Do.    to  boil 
Handing  round  dishes 
Hard-boiled  eg^*^  toast 

Do  do.  with  fish  toast 

Hare  hashed 
Do.     jugged  (civet  ih  lievre) 
Do.     patties  a  la  financiere 
Do.     pie 
Do.     roast 
Do.     do.  sauce  for 
Do.     do.  stuffing  for 
Do.     soup 
Do.     do.  [puree) 
Do.  to    marinade 
Haricots  dried  {Soissoiis) ... 
Do.        verts     ... 
Do.         do.  in  salad  (cold) 
Do.         do.  steamed 
Do.         do.  panaches     ... 
Do,         do.  to  trim 
Hash,  concerning 
Do.     gravy  (at  a  pinch)  ... 
Hashed  hare 

Do.      mutton  to  taste  like  venison 
Hen  turkey  braised  h.  la  jardiniere... 
Do.     do.         do.       with  cauliflower 
Herbs  seasoning  in  stuffing 
Herring  roes  green  butter  of 

Do.      toast 
Hollandaise  sauce 
Homard  a  1'  Americaine 

Do.      pilao  a  la  Turque 
Hors  d'oeuvres,  service  of 
Do.         do.       combinations  of      ... 
Do.         do.        garnishing 
Do.         do.        serving  oysters  as  ,,, 
Do.        do.       things  composing  ... 


PAGE. 

I66 

228 

144 

144 

144 

475 

471 

255 
116 

76 

225 

231 

328 
328 

393 

279 
328 
328 

loS 

420 

437 

327 
166 

139 

210 

137  cV  338 

139 

137  &  338 

...67  ac  168 

169 

328 

66 

379 

427 

107 

376 

230 
84 

457 

491 
...  6&  213 

214 

215 
...  6  &  214 

214 

INDEX.  531 


PAGE. 


Hors  d'oeuvres,  to  choose  ...  ...  ...  215 

Horseradish  sauce            ...  ...  ...  ...  90 

Hump  to  boil      ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  115 

Do.    to  cure    ...            ...  ...  ...  ...  254 


)ce  vanilla  cream          ...  ...  ...  ...  456 

Iced  apricot  cream  pudding  ...  ...  ...  340 

Do.  Charlotte  h  la  Sicilienne  ...  ...  ...  357 

Do.  Charlotte  Russe  au  praline  ...  ...  ...  369 

Do.  Nesselrode  pudding  ...  ...  ...  375 

Do.  parfait  au  chocolat    ...  ...  ...  ...  381 

Do.  pistacio  cream            ...  ...  ...  ...  345 

Do.  pudding  a  I'ambigu  (medley)  ...  ...  396 

Do.  pudding  with  cherries  ...  ...  ...  364 

Do.  pudding  with  strawberries  ...  ...  ...  352 

Do.  rice  h,  rimperatrice  ...  ...  ...  ...  388 

Icing,  chocolate ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  419 

Indian  corn,  {inais)  k  1'  Americaine  ...  ...  441 

Do.       do.     a  I'ltalienne...  ...  ...  ...  248 

Do.      do.     a  la  Napolitaine  ...  ...  ...  248 

Do.      ortolans...             ...  ...  ...  ...  436 

Isinglass  in  soups  forbidden  ...  ...  ...  38 


V^ambon  au  Madere       ...  ...  ...  ...  118 

Jelly  aspic  to  make  ...  ...  ...  ...  386 

Do.  cXdivel  {de  Bordeaux)  ...  ...  ...  380 

Do.  of  prunes,  a  capital  ...  ...  ...  ...  351 

Do.  with  fruits  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  35^ 

Jerusalem  artichokes  (topinambonrs)  ...  ...  148 

Do.  do.         au  gratin        ...  ...  ...  148 

Do.  do.        bouchees        ...  ...  ...  153 

Do.  do.         fritters  ...  ...  ...  149 

Do.  do.        puree  (rtM^ras)  (Palestine  soup)..  453 

Do.  do.  do.    {an  maigre)  do.  ...  453 

Do.  do.         mousse  of  ^  la  Chetput  ...  149 

Do.  do.        with  eggs      ...  ...  ...  240 

Jugged  chops      ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  121 

Do.     fish  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  122 

Do.     fowl  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  122 

Do.     French  beans  {specialite)     ...  ...  i37  &  338 

Do.     h^re  {civet  de  liev re)  ...  ...  ...  328 

Do.     jungle  sheep  ...  ..1  ...  ...  3^9 

Do.     peas  ...  ...  ...  •••  ...  135 

Do.     steak        ...  ...  ...  ...  .••  122 

Jugging  a  tin  for  ...  ...  ...  .••  121 


632 


INDEX. 


Julienne,  preserved  tablets  of 

Do.     soup 
Jungle  fowl 

Do.     sheep 

& 


W, 


^  J^edgree  (Kitchri)  English  way... 
Kidney  in  onions 

Do.     soup 

Do.     the,  cut  out  of  a  cold  saddle,  on  toast 

Do.     toast 

Do.     to  remove  unpleasant  flavour  of 
Killing  poultry    ... 
Kippered  seer  fish 
Kitchen  equipment 

Do.     utensils  ... 
Kramouskys,  concerning  ... 

Do.  with  oysters... 

Knolkhol 
Kubab  curry 


PAGE. 
486 

3^9 


lamb  quarter  of,  and  green  peas 
Lang  spirit  lamp,  the 
Lard  in  pastry    ... 
Leg  of  mutton  a  la  Bretonne 

Do.       do,     braised  k  la  chevrcuil 
Lemon  cheesecakes 
Lettuce  soup 
Liaison  of  eggs  ... 

Do.     of  flour  and  water... 
Lima  beans 

Lime  sauce  for  puddings  ... 
Liver  forcemeat  (d  lafoiegras) 
Lobster  a  I'Amcricaine  ... 
Do.  pilao  a  la  Turque  ... 
Do.  puree  {bisque) 
Loin  of  mutton  a  la  soubise 
Do.  do.      braised 

Do.  do.      en  papillote 

Do.         do.      stuffed 
Luncheons 

Luncheon,  dishes  suggested  for 
Do.       office  ... 
Do.       party,  a  menu  for 
Do.         do.     features  of 


INDEX.  533 


PAGE. 

Luncheon,  the  lady's          ...             ...             ...            ,,,  igi 

Do.        the  sportsman's                ...             ...             ...  193 

Do.       the  traveller's    ,.,            ,.,             ,.,             .,,  193 

I 

^accaroni     ...             ...             ...             ...             ...  240 

Do.       a  foreign  dish  of           ...             ...              ...  242 

Do.       a  r  Italienne...             ...             ...             ...  187 

Do.       au  gratin        ...             ...             ...             241  &   461 

Do.       cheese,  and  tomatoes,  with  meat  ...  174 

Do.       in  soup           ...             ...             ...  ...  34 

Do.       en  veloute  au  fromage  {a  la  rnilanaise)  ...  241 

Do.       soup                ...             ...            ...  ...  365 

Do.       to  treat           ...            ...             ...  ...  240 

Do.       with  tomato   ...            ...             ...  ...  242 

Mac^doine  de  legumes     ...             ...             ...  ...  ^^ 

Made  dishes,  component  parts  of  ...             ...  ...  70 

Madeira  or  Marsala  in  soups          ...             ...  ...  36 

Do.                  do.      with  ham        ...             ...  ...  nS 

Madras  fish  compared  with  English              ...  ...  333 

Maids-of-honour...             ...             ...             ...  ...  490 

Maitre  d'hotel  butter        ...             ...             ...  ...  82 

Do.        do.        do.    with  asparagus             ...  ...  163 

Do.       do.        do.    with  chops  and  steaks...  ...  82 

Do.        do.     sauce          ...             ..t             ...  ...  82 

Maize  (Indian  corn,  Mais)  ...  ...  165  &  248 

Do.    a  I'Americaine         ...             ...             ...  ...  441 

Do.    a  ritalienne            ...             ...             ...  ...  248 

Do.    a  la  Napolitaine      ...             ...             ..*  ...  248 

Malay  curry       ...              ...             ...             ...  ...  299 

Mango  chutney-..              ...             ...             ...  ...  306 

Marinade  for  mock  venison             ...              ...  ...  66 

Do.       to  make             ...             ...             ...  ...  65 

Do.       value  of             ...             ...             ...  ...  65 

Marinading  joints              ...             ...             ...  ...  106 

Marrows  vegetable,  [coiwges  a  la  moelle)     ...  ...  155 

156 

156 

-•  156 

155 

.    _      ....     163 

Marrow  [moelle)  to  prepare  for  garnish        ...  ...  160 

Do.     with  artichokes     ...             ...             ...  ...  152 

Do.      do.     cardoons     ...             ...             ...  ...  161 

Do.      do.     celery          ...             ...             ...  ...  160 

Mashed  potato   ...            ...            ...            ...  ...  129 

Do,       do.      chutney     ...            ...            ...  ...  306 

58 


Do. 

do. 

au  gratin 

Do. 

do. 

beignets 

Do. 

do. 

farcis  .. 

Do. 

do. 

to  strain 

Do. 

do. 

(young) 

534  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Matelote  d'anguilles         ...            ...            ...            ...  416 

Do.       the        ...        ^    ...            ...            58 

Mayonnaise  a  la  Gouffe    ...             ...             ...             ...  211 

Do.         sauce             ...            ...             ...            ...  91 

Do.           do.     (W.  H.  H.)       ...             ...             ...  190 

Meat,  to  keep  fresh  in  hot  climates                ...             ...  495 

Melted  butter  (5flHC^  6/flwcAe)          ...             ...             ...  80 

Do.       do.       do      for  sweets       ...             ...             ...  82 

Menu,  choosing  entrees  for  the       ...             ...             ...  63 

Do.         do.        fish  for  the             ...             ...             ...  54 

Do.     for  a  luncheon  party             ...             ...             ...  186 

Do,     the  composition  of...             ...             ...             ...  4 

Meringues            ...             ...             ...             ...             ...  389 

Milk  in  soups       ...              ...              ...              ...              ...  45 

Do.   to  flavour  for  fines  herbes  sauce            ...             ...  81 

Do,  to  prepare  for  bread  sauce     ...             ...             ...  88 

Mince  gravy  at  a  pinch  for               ...              ...             ...  169 

Do.     ways  of  serving       ...              ...             ...              ...  170 

Minced  game  in  cases       ...             ...             ...             ...  363 

Minces                 ...             ...             ...             ...             ...  175 

Mint  chutney      ...              ...             ...             ...             ...  306 

Do.    sauce          ...             ...             ...             ...             ...  369 

Do.   wrong  use  of             ...             ...             ...             ...  15 

Mirepoix              ...              ...              •••              •••              ...  100 

Mixed  vegetable  sauce  (mrtcc^o;';/(?)...             ...              ...  83 

Mock  crab           ...              ...              •••              ••.              ...  219 

Do.      do.  toast  ...              ...              ■••              ...             ...  232 

-  134 

-  390 

-  392 

66 

156 

160 

161 

161 
160 

152 

161 

...  161 

302 

Mollay-keeray  (country  vegetable) ...              ...              ...  166 

Do.      do.      salad             ...              ...              ...              ...  210 

Moringa-cai  (country  vegetable)     ...              ...              ...  165 

Do.      au  gratin              ...              ...              ...              ...  432 

Do.      toast     ...              ...              ...              ...              ...  230 

Mould  of  chicken  cream   ...              ...              ...              ,,,  336 

Do.      of  cheese      do,      ,,,             ...             ...             ,.,  4HT 


Do. 
Do. 

new  potatoes 
turtle,  clear 

Do. 

do.    thick 

Do. 

venison  marinade  for 

Do. 

white-bait.  . 

Moelle  {marroiu)  to  prepare 
Do.     with  cardoons 

Do. 

do,  cardes  poirees 

Do. 
Do. 

do,  celery 

do,  fonds  d'artichauts 

Do. 

do.  pieds  d'artichauts 

Do. 

do,  salsify 

Moli, 

the              

INDEX,  '535 


Mould  of  foie  gras            ...            ...  ...  ...  428 

Do.      of  gooseberries      ...             ...  ...  ...  4^5 

Do.      of  Jerusalem  artichokes      ...  ...  ...  I49 

Do.      of  strawberries      ...  ...  340 

Mousse,  term  when  used ...            ...  ...  ...  481 

Mullet  au  gratin...            ...            ...  ...  ...  479 

Mucka-cholum  (maize)     ...            ...  ...  ...  165 

Mulligatunny      ...             ...             ...  ...  ...  306 

Do.           almond  milk  in         ...  ...  ...  309 

Do.           a,  made  in  England  ...  ...  308 

Do.           clear           ...             ...  ...  ...  310 

Do.           chicken  (ordinary)  ...  ...  ...  312 

Do,           chief  points  to  observe  in       ...  ...  309 

Do.           fish  stock  for            ...  ...  ...  311 

Do.           maigre        ...             ...  ...  ...  311 

Do.           meat  stock  for          ...  ...  ...  311 

Do.           on  serving  rice  with...  ...  ...  309 

Do.           vegetable  stock  for  ...  ...  ...  311 

Murrel  to  cook    ...            .^            ...  ...  ...  324 

Do.     s\M^x\g  iov  {specialite)         ...  ...  ...  324 

Mushrooms  au  gratin        ...             ...  ...  ...  386 

Do.        croustades  a  I'Espagnole  ...  ...  486 

Mustard  sauce  ...            ...            ...  ...  ...  86 

Mutton...             ...             ...             ...  ...  ...  102 

Do.     breast  of  a  la  Wyvern        ...  ...  ...  450 

Do.     chops  boiled           „,            ...  ...  ...  121 

Do.      do.    pickled       ...            ...  ...  ...  408 

Do.     cutlets    ...            ...            ...  ...  ...  66 

Do.       do.     a  la  Maintenon         ...  ...  ...  373 

Do.       do.     a  la  Milanaise          ...  ...  ...  427 

Do.      do.    a  la  Reforme             ...  ...  ...  360 

Do.      do.     a  la  soubise               ...  ...  ...  83 

Do.      do.    a  la  Valois                ...  ...  ...  379 

Do.      do.    au  creme  de  fromage  ...  ...  355 

Do.      do.     au  macedoine           ...  ...  ...  431 

Do.      do.     in  aspic  (d  la  Moscovite)  ...  ...  348 

Do.      do.     marinade  for            ...  ...  ...  66 

Do.      do.     to  bread'Crumb        ...  ...  ...  67 

Do.       do.     to  grill        ...            ...  ...  ...  67 

Do.      do.     to  jug         ...             ...  ...  ...  121 

Do.      do.    to  stew       ...            ...  ...  ...  6"] 

Do.       do.     trimming  of               ...  ...  ...  66 

Do.      do.     with  sorrel...             ...  ...  ...  404 

Do.    ham        ...            ...            ...  ...  ...  255 

Do.     leg  of  ala  Bretonne            ...  ...  ...  166 

Do.        do.   alachevreuil            ...  ...  ...  385 

Do,    loin  of  a  la  soubise             ...  ...  ...  4^6 


536 


INDEX. 


Mutton  loin  of  braised 
Do.  do.  stuffed     ... 

Do.  do.  wrapped  in  paper 

Do.  pie  domestic 
Do,  do.     raised 

Do.  mullig-atunny 

Do.  shoulder  of  rolled  and  stuffed 


PAGE. 

446 

439 
106 

273 
266 

313 
400 


^"^eopolitan  cake 

Nesselrode  pudding,  (ice) 

Nivernaise  soup 

Nougat 

Nouilles 

Nun's  sighs  (fritters) 


429 
375 

444 
468 

449 
441 


n^at  biscuit 

Qiufs  a  la  creme  (d  la  Suisse) 
Do.    a  r  Indienne 
Do.    a  la  matire  d'holel 
Do.    a  la  niege 

Do.    a  la  Suisse 

Do.    au  beurre  noir 

Do.    au  fromage 

Do.    au  gratin... 

Do.    au  jus 

Do.     aux  oignons 

Do.     aux  topinambours  ... 

Do.     brouiiles  ... 

Do.     farcis         ...  ... 

Do.     surleplat... 
Oie  rotie 
Olive  sauce 
(Jlives  beef 
Do.     farcies 

Omelette  au  Parmesan     ... 
Do.       aux  fines  herbes 
Do.       aux  legumes 
Do.       aux  tomates 
Do.       elaborate 
Do.       making  rules  of 
Do.       Materials  for  making 
Do.      soufflee... 
Do.       the  Cure's  to  make 
Do.      the  "Pennaconda"' 


220 

455 
239 
239 
345 
237 
235 
235 
237 
236 

239 
239 
235 
238 

235 
432 
384 
424 
213 
183 
i8i 
182 
182 

184 
181 
178 

481 

183 
176 


INDEX,  537 


PAGE. 

Omelette,  varieties  of       ...  ,.,  ...  ...  182 

Do.       with  kippered  fish  ...  ...  ...  183 

Onions  (Bombay)  au  gratin  ...  ...  ...  155 

Do.     (button)  glazed  ...  ...  ...  153 

Do.     pur6e  a  la  Soubise  ...  ...  ...83  &  417 

Do.       do.    a  la  Bretonne  ...  ...  ...  417 

Do.     stuffed  with  kidney  ...  ...  ...  412 

Orleans  pudding                ...  ...  ...  ...  418 

Orlys  of  seerfish...              ...  ...  ...  ...  398 

Ortolans  des  Indes             ...  ...  ...  ...  436 

Our  vegetables  classified ...  ...  ...  ...  127 

Oven  in  pastry   ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  261 

Do.    temperature  of,  for  baking  pies  ...  ...  261 

Do.    the  stove  concerning  ...  ...  ...  315 

Ox-head  brawn  ...             ...  ...  ...              ..  256 

Ox-tail  soup  (clear)            ...  ...  ...  ...  409 

Do.      do.    (thick)           ...  ...  ...  ...  410 

Oyster,  and  beefsteak  pie  ...  ...  ...  277 

fritters    ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  199 

kramousk^'S           ...  ...  ...  ...  199 

sauce      ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  411 


de  foie  gras          ...  ...  ...  ...  428 

de  fraises               ...  ...  ...  ...  340 

de  fromage            ...  ••.  ...  ...  482 

de  groseilles          ...  ••«  ...  ...  466 

devolaille              ...  ...  ...  ...  336 

Palestine  soup     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  453 

'P!iY\2.(:\\Qs  [haricots  verts)  ...  ...  ...  ...  139 

Pancake-fritters...             ...  ...  ...  ...  201 

Pancakes  with  chicken  {crepinettes)  ...  ...  392 

Do.       with  fish             ...  ...  ...  ...  426 

Do.       witii  mince         ...  ...  ...  172   &  326 

Papodums  {papariims)      ...  ...  ...  ...  306 

Parfait  au  chocolat             ...  ...  ...  ...  381 

Parsley  sauce      ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  81 

Do.     to  mince...             ...  ...  ...  ...  no 

Parsnips  (panats)               ...  ...  ...  ...  154 

Do.    glaces     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  154 

Do.    sautes     ...            ...  ...  ...  ...  153 

Do.     various  ways  of  serving      ...  ...  ...  153 

Partridges  a  la  soubise     ...  ...  ...  ...  454 

Do.       clear  soup  of     ...  ...  ...  ...  415 

Do.       in  jelly                ...  ...  ...  ...  385 

Do.       quenelles  of  en  aspic       ...  ...  ...  346 

Do.       with  cabbage    ...  ...  ...  ...  433 


538  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Paste  puff           ...            ...  ...  ...  ...  261 

Do.     do.  Yeatman's  powder  in  ...  ...  ...  264 

Pastry,  beef  suet  for          ...  ...  ...  ...  262 

Do.     butter  in  ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  262 

Do.     classified  ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  259 

Do.     entrees  of                ...  ...  ...  ...  72 

Do.     fat  skimmed  from  soup  in  ...  ...  ...  263 

Do.     ingredients  required  for  ...  ...  ...  262 

Do.     lard  in      ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  263 

Do.     making,  'a.b.c.'of  ...  ...  ...  ...  259 

Do.        do.     rules  of       ...  ...  ...  ...  260 

Do.        do.     water  in      ...  ...  ...  ...  259 

Pat6  de  foie  gras,  a  forcemeat  of  ...  ...  ...  70 

Do.       do.     fillets  en  chaud  froid  ...  ...  ...  462 

Do.       do.     mould  of  (pain)  ...  ...  ...  428 

Do.       do.     en  caisses     ...  ...  ...  ...  435 

Do.       do.     on  toast         ...  ...  ...  ...  226 

Pauvre  homme  sauce       ...  ...  ...  ...  89 

Peach  fritters      ...            ...  ...  ...  ...  201 

Pearl  barley  soup              ,.,  ...  ...  ...  398 

Peas  boiled         ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  134 

Do.      choosing  of             ...  ...  ...  ...  135 

Do.      in  the  jar  (jugged)  ...  ...  ...  135 

Do.      old  to  stew             ...  ...  ...  ...  136 

Do.      puree  of  green       ...  ...  ...  ...  136 

Perdreaux  u  la  soubise     ...  ...  ...  ...  454 

Do.        aspic  de           ...  ...  ...  ...  386 

Do.        au  chou            ...  ...  ...  ...  433 

Do.        consomme  de ...  ...  ...  ...  415 

Do.        quenelles  de,  en  aspic  ...  ...  ...  344 

Perigueux  sauce...             ...  ...  ...  ...  97 

Petits  pois  accommodes    ...  ...  ...  ...  136 

Do.   do.   h,  la  creme       ...  ...  ...  ...  137 

Do.   do.   au  beurre       ...  ...  ...  136  &  351 

Do.   do.   au  jambon      ...  ...  ...  ...  137 

Do.   do.   au  lard            ...  ...  ...  ...  137 

Pickled  steak  or  chops      ...  ...  ...  ...  408 

Pie  beefsteak      ...            ...  ...  ...  ...  480 

Do.     do    and  chicken      ...  ...  ...  ...  274 

Do.     do.     and  oyster       ...  ,.,  ...  ...  277 

Do.  chicken  and  tongue  ...  ...  ...  ...  278 

Do.  crust             ...            ...  ...  .,,  ...  265 

Do.     do.  a  French           ...  ...  ...  ...  266 

Do.     do.  French  {pate  brisee)  ...  ...  ...  268 

Do.     do.  raised  (pork  pie)  ...  ...  ...  267 

Do.  domestic,  made  out  of  a  cold  saddle     ...  ...  275 

Do.  game           ,,,            ...  ...  ...  ...  281 


INDEX.  539 


PAGE. 

Pie  game  raised                ...  ...  ...  ,,.  269 

Do.  hare              ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  279 

Do.  partridge  and  quail  ...  ...  ...  ...  280 

Do.  pigeon          ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  279 

Do.  rabbit           ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  278 

Do.  raised  a  mutton          ...  ...  ...  ...  268 

Do.     do.    a  tin  for           ...  ...  ...  ,..  267 

Do.     do.     game...             ...  ...  ...  ...  269 

Do.     do.     pork  ...             ...  ...  ...  ,,,  269 

Do.  salmon  (cold)              ...  ...  ...  ...  283 

Do.  snipe             ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  280 

Piece  de  boeuf  en  aspic    ...  ...  ...  ...  464 

Pies,  savoury  rules  of        ...  ...  ...  ...  272 

Pickled  chops,  or  steak     ...  ...  ...  ...  408 

Pigeon  boudins  with  olive  sauce    ...  ...  ...  384 

Do.     fillets  with  Genevoise  sauce  ...  ...  372 

Do.     pie          ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  279 

Pilao  of  lobster  a  la  Turque  ...  ...  ...  491 

Pilchard  toast     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  230 

Pine-apple  aux  croutes     ...  ...  ...  ...  413 

Do.        fritters             ...  ...  ...  ...  201 

Pintade  au  cresson           ...  ...  ...  ...  471 

Pistachio  cake    ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  442 

Do.       nut  cream  ice    ...  ...  ...  .t.  345 

Plain  gravy  soup  (^o^-flM-/(??<)  ...  ...  ...  31 

Do.  loaf,  half  pound        ...  ...  ...  ...  320 

Plantain  Charlotte             ...  ,.,  ...  ...  485 

Do.      fritters...             ...  ...  ...  ...  472 

Plovers  in  cases ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  396 

Podolong-cai  (snake  vegetable)      ...  ...  ...  165 

Do.          in  gravy      ...  ...  ...  ,.,  467 

Pointes  d' asperges            ...  ...  ...  ...  163 

Pomfret  a  la  maitre  d'hotel  ...  ...  ...  372 

Do.      a  la  Normande  ...  ...  ...  ...  464 

Do.      a  la  poulette        ...  ...  ...  ...  354 

Do.      a  la  Proven^ale  ...  ...  ...  ...  438 

Do.      aux  fines  herbes...  ...  ...  ...  366 

Do.       ragout  ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  466 

Do.      sauce  ravigote     ...  ...  ...  .,,  450 

Do.      with  caper  sauce,..  ...  ...  ...  378 

Do.       with  parsley  sauce  ...  ...  ...  434 

Do.       with  prawn  puree  ...  ...  ...  483 

Do.      with  Venetian  sauce  (green)  ...  ...  383 

Pork  stuffing       ...             ...  ...  ,,.  ...  in 

Pot-au-feu  {bouillon)        ...  ...  ...  ...  32 

Potage  a  la  bonne  femme...  ...  ...  ...  44 

Do.      alabrunoise         ...  ,.,  ...  ...  359 


540  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Potage  a  la  Crecy  ...  ...  ...  ...  49 

Do.      a  la  creme  d'orge  ...  ...  ...  39S 

Do.     a  la  Gladstone  [Queue  de  hcEuf)       ...  ...  409 

Do.     k  la  Julienne         ...  ...  ...  ...  341 

Do.      a  la  Niveinaise    ...  ...  ...  ...  444 

Do.      a  la  Palestine        ...  ...  ...  ...  453 

Do.     a  la  puree  de  becassines     ...  ...  ...  425 

Do.  do.       de  legumes  ...  ...  ...  470 

Do.     a  la  reine  ...  ...  ...  ...  382 

Do.     a  la  tortue  ...  ...  ...  ...  390 

Do.     delievre...  ...  ...  ...  ...  420 

Potato  cases  for  entrees   ...  ...  ...  ...  343 

Do.     flour  for  souffles    ...  ...  ...  ...  413 

Do.     snow        ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  130 

Do.     thickening  in  soups  condemned        ...  ...  38 

Potatoes  a  rAm<iricaine   ...  ...  ...  ...  132 

130 
130 

132 

132 
133 

132 

128 

131 

132 

128 

134 

131 

132 

130 

-  134 

129 

130 

132 
128 

129 

128 

128 

132 

219 

218 

218  &  448 

219 

411 

399 

416 

475 


Do. 

a  la  Duchesse     ... 

Do. 

alaG.C. 

Do. 

a  la  Lyonnaise  ... 

Do. 

a  la  maitre  d'hotcl 

Do. 

a  la  Parisienne  ... 

Do. 

a  la  Provencale  ... 

Do. 

boiling 

Do. 

boulettes  of 

Do. 

chips  of 

Do. 

concerning 

Do. 

cones,  8cc.,  of 

Do. 

croquettes  of 

Do. 

f  rites     ... 

Do. 

mashed 

Do. 

mock  new 

Do. 

new 

Do. 

puree  of 

Do. 

sautees  ... 

Do. 

steamed 

Do. 

lime  for  boiling  ... 

Do. 

to  vary  service  of 

Do. 

treatment  of 

Do. 

waxy  to  treat 

Potted 

game 

Do. 

meats 

Do. 

prawns     ... 

Do. 

tongue 

Poulet 

a  rAmericaine 

Do. 

a  la  St.  Lambert    ... 

Do. 

a  la  Villeroy 

Do, 

grilled  (bread  sauce) 

INDEX.  hil 


PAGE. 

Poulette  sauce    ...            ...  ...  ,,,  ,,,  83 

Poultry  killing     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  112 

Do.      to  roast  ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  106 

Prawn  butter       ...             ...  .,.  ...  ...  216 

Do.     croustades                ...  ...  ...  ...  454 

Do.     curry  (Ceylon)        ...  ...  ...  ...  300 

Do.     fritters      ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  201 

Do.     kramouskys            ...  ...  ...  ,.,  200 

Do.     potted      ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  218 

Do.     puree       ...             ...  ,„  ...  ...  403 

Do,     soup  clear               ...  ...  ...  ...  434 

Pressed  beef        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  255 

Proportion  of  meat  and  vegetables  in  soup  ...  ...  41 

Proven^ale  sauce               ...  ...  ...  ...  43S 

Prune  jelly           ...               ...  ...  ...  ...  351 

Prunes  a  la  chasseur  (dessert)  ...  ...  ...  452 

Pudding  beefsteak             ...  ...  ...  ...  271 

Do.           do.         and  kidney  ...  ...  ...  271 

Do.           do.         and  oyster  ...  ...  ...  271 

Do.      iced  a  I'ambigu    ...  ...  ...  ...  396 

Do.       do.  apricot           ...  ...  ...  ...  340 

Do.       do.  Charlotte  Sicilienne    ...  ...  .,,  357 

Do.       do.        do.        Russe  ...  ...  ...  369 

Do.       do.  cherry            ...  ...  ...  ...  364 

Do.       do.  creme  de  pistache  ...  ...  ...  .»"34o 

Do.       do.  Nesselrode    ...  ...  ...  ...  375 

Do.       do.  parfait  au  chocolat  ...  ...  ...  381 

Do.       do,  rice  a  I'lmperatrice  ...  ...  ...  38S 

Do.       do.  strawberry     ...  ...  ...  ...  356 

Do.       savoury                 ...  ...  ...  ..  270 

Do,          do.     of  partridge  ,,.  ...  ...  271 

Do.           do.     with  birds  ...  ...  ...  271 

Do.       (sweet)  Angel     .,,  ...  ...  ,..  436 

Do.           do.     Duchesse  ...  ...  ...  455 

Do.           do.     Fig          ...  ...  ...  ...  46S 

Do.           do.     Orleans...  ...  ...  ...  418 

Do.           do.     Queen  Mab  ...  ...  ...  447 

Do.           do.     Sir  Watkin's  ...  ...  ...  461 

Do.           do.    tipsy        ...  ...  ...  ...  424 

Do.           do.     Viennoise  ...  ...  ...  472 

Do.           do.     Victoria...  ...  ...  ■^..  476 

Puff  paste            ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  263 

Pulled  bread       ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  220 

Pumpkins  (young)             ...  ...  ...  ...  .166 

Puree,  concerning  the      ...  ...  ...  ...  48 

Do.    de  legumes              ...  ...  ...  ...  470 

Do.    delievre..,            ,.,  ...  ...  ...  437 


542  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Pur^e  de  potnmes  de  terre  ...  ...  ...  130 

Do.    de  tomales  (soup)  ...  ...  ...  ...  478 

Do.    of  carrots...              ...  ...  ...  ...  48 

Do.    ofchicken...             ...  ...  ...  ...  382 

Do.    of  endive  [chicoree)  ...  ...  ...  469 

Do.    of  kidneys                ...  ...  ...  ...  45S 

Do.    of  onions  a  la  Bretonne  ...  ...  ...  417 

Do.    of  i  la  Soubise        ...  ...  ...  ...  417 

Do.    of  peas      ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  136 

Do.    of  prawns                  ...  ...  ...  ...  403 

Do.    of  rice  with  French  beans  ...  ...  ...  466 

Do.    of  snipe     ...             ...  ...  •••  ...  425 

Do.    of  sorrel    ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  405 

Do.    of  spinach                 ...  ...  -.  ...  146 

Do.    of  tomatoes              ...  ...  ...  ...  239 

Purees  of  game,  &c.           ...  •.•  .••  ...  50 

Do.    of  vegetables  on  toasts  ...  ...  ...  224 


^s^uails,  ballotines  of 

Do.       gallantines  of    ...  ...  ...  ...  33S 

Do.       in  pies  ...  ...  ...  ...  28(3 

Do,       salmis  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  380 

Quarter  of  lamb  and  green  peas  ...  ...  ...  368 

Quenelles  of  chicken  au  inac(^doine  ...  ...  367 

'^    Do.       in  soup  ...  ...  ...  ...  334 

Do.       of  partridge  in  jelly  .  .  ...  ...  344 

Queen  Mab  pudding         ...  ...  ...  ...  447 

^Do.    Victoria  pudding  ...  ...  ...  ...  476 

Quorma  curry     ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  303 


^^V-abbit  croustades  a  la  reine       ...  ...  ...  361 

Do.       fillets  a  1'  Italienne  ...  ...  ...  445 

Do.       pie      ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  27S 

Ragout  ^  la  financiere       ...  ...  ...  ...  394 

Do.     a  la  reine               ...  ...  ...  ...  394 

Do.     of  fish     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  466 

Kaised  pie  crust ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  266 

Do.     do.    do.  French    ...  ...  ...  ...  26S 

Do.     do.     of    game       ...  ...  ...  ...  269 

Do.     do.     of    mutton  ...  ...  ...  ...  268 

Do.     do.     of    pork        ...  ...  ...  ...  269 

Ramasaray's  awful  soup  ...  ...  ...  ...  41 

Do.          bread  sauce  a  la  cataplasme    ...  ...  87 

Do.         cabbage  cut  up  ,,,  ...  ,.,  141 


INDEX.  54^ 


PAGE. 

Ramasamy 

's  cruel  way  of  straightening  a  tongue 

... 

253 

Do. 

cutlet 

... 

69 

Do. 

difficulty  about  charcoal 

,., 

26 

Do. 

fish  pudding 

... 

170 

Do. 

fowl  plucking  (.?) 

... 

112 

Do. 

habit  of  dishing  ducks 

... 

467 

Do. 

ham  garnish 

... 

118 

Do. 

hare  paste    ... 

... 

328 

Do. 

hash 

>.. 

16S 

Do. 

heedless  use  of  sauces  in  a  pie 

... 

273 

Do. 

ideas  of  pastry 

... 

258 

Do. 

kitchen  butter 

... 

73 

Do. 

method  of  spoiling  wild  ducks 

... 

484 

Do. 

mistakes  in  cookingBouillon    ... 

(•• 

487 

Do. 

do.        in  roasting  ... 

... 

113 

Do. 

objections  to  boiling  fowl  with  soup- 

meat 

116 

Do. 

omelette 

... 

178 

Do. 

onion  garnish  for  entrees 

... 

75 

Do. 

pie                  ...             

... 

272 

Do. 

stuffing 

... 

107 

Do. 

tart  pastry,  concerning 

... 

262 

Do. 

toast  for  garnishing 

... 

170 

Do. 

untrustworthiness  in  tin  opening 

... 

325 

Ramequlns 

... 

... 

249 

Do. 

en  caises 

250 

&412 

Ramequln 

toast  ... 

... 

231 

Ravigote  sauce  (cold) 

.. . 

92 

Do.       do.      (hot) 

... 

85 

Rechauffes 

,  laws  of 

,., 

168 

Reduced  vi 

negar  in  sauces 

... 

100 

Do.       wine               do.  ... 

... 

100 

Reform  cutlets 

... 

360 

Releve  the 

position  of  In  the  menu                 ... 

... 

7 

Remoulade  sauce  (cold) 

... 

92 

Do. 

do.     green    ... 

... 

92 

Do. 

do.     (hot)     ... 

... 

84 

Ribs  of  beef  a  la  Chateaubriand     ... 

... 

362 

Rice 

... 

... 

244 

Do.    boilir 

_g  of  ... 

... 

244 

Do.  remarks  on  cooking- 

... 

245 

Do.  puree 

with  French  beans 

... 

466 

Do.   savoury 

... 

368 

Risotto  a  la  Milanaise 

... 

247 

Riz  ala  bonne  femme 

... 

245 

Do.  al'Ind 

ienne 

... 

246 

Do.  al'Ital 

ienne 

... 

245 

Do.  a  la  M 

enagere 

... 

247 

544 


INDEX. 


Riz  a  la  Milanaise 

Do.  a  la  Napolitaine 

Do.  a  la  Turque 

Do.  au  chou 

Do.  a  I'lmp^ratrice  (glac^) 

Do.  casseroles  de 

Roasting 

Do.  table  of  time  taken  in 
Roast,  hare 
Rolls,  dinner 

Do.   French 

Root  vegetables  en  puree,  Sec. 
Rot  the  position  of  in  the  menu 
Roties  des  oeufs  ;i  la  crcme 

Do.    de  be'casse 
Roux 
Rules  for  curing  meat 

Do.    do.  frying  ... 

Do.    do.  hors  d'ocuvres   ... 

Do.    do.  omelette  makmg 

Do.    do.  pastry      do. 

Do.    do.  pie  do. 

Do.    do.  rechauffes 

Do.    do.  roasting 

Do.    do.  salad-making    ... 

Do.    do.  savory  toasts     ... 

Do.    do,  soup-inaking 
Russian  salad 


PAGE. 

247 

246 
246 

384 
106 

328 
319 
319 

7 

225 

481 

46 

251 
196 
214 
iSi 

259 
272 
169 

113 

205 
221 

39 
401 


^^addle  of  mutton  with  French  beans 

Do.  do,         with  peas 

Salad,  cooked  vegetables  in 
Do.       do.       country 
Do.     dressing  plain 
Do.         do.         principles  of 
Do.         do.         with  eggs 
Do.     service  of ... 
Do.     tomato 

Do.     with  hot  fish  condemned 
Salade  a  la  ma  tante 

Do.     Russe     ... 
Salads,  vegetables  for 
Salmis  de  cailles 

Do.       observations  regarding  the 
Salmon,  boudins  of 
Do.     pie  (cold) 


338 
344 
210 
210 
205 
204 
208 
209 
207 

59 
210 
401 
204 

380 

67 

477 

283 


INDEX. 

545 

PAGE. 

Salmon  tinned  to  dress     ... 

«.•            «.. 

323 

Do.     toast 

...            ..• 

230 

Salpicon  de  gibier  en  caisses 

... 

364 

Salsify 

...            ... 

161 

Do.    au  gratin  ... 

... 

161 

Do.    sauce 

...            ..• 

161 

Do.    scallops     ... 

... 

161 

Do.    soup 

... 

162 

Sandwiches 

... 

192 

Sardine  toast 

...            ... 

230 

Do.     fillets  potted 

... 

213 

Sauce  a  I'Americaine 

... 

404 

Do.     a  la  B6atnaise 

...            ... 

337 

Do.     a  la  Bretonne 

...            ... 

417 

Do.     a  la  Careme 

...            ... 

456 

Do.     a  la  Chateaubriand 

... 

362 

Do.     a  la  Chetput 

... 

476 

Do.     a  la  Genevoise 

... 

372 

Do.     a  la  maitre  d'hotel... 

... 

82 

Do.     a  la  matelote 

...            ... 

417 

Do.     a  la  poulette 

... 

83 

Do.     a  la  Reforme 

...            ... 

360 

Do.     a  la  Ve'nitienne 

... 

383 

Do.     a  la  Valois 

... 

319 

Do.     AUemande 

...            ••• 

96 

Do.     apricot  for  pudding- 

... 

461 

Do.     au  fenouil 

... 

8t 

Do.     au  fromage 

...            ... 

242 

Do.     au  Parmesan  hnilanaise) 

83  &  360 

Do.     au  pauvre  homme  ... 

89  &  445 

Do.     au  persil  ... 

81 

&436 

Do.     auxcapres... 

81 

&37S 

Do.     aux  cornichons 

82 

J&36S 

Do.     aux  fines  herbes 

81 

&366 

Do.     aux  olives  ... 

... 

384 

Do.     aux  pointes  d'asperges 

... 

421 

Do.     bechamel 

...             ... 

98 

Do.     bigarade  (wild  fowl) 

...             ... 

35t 

Do.     blanche    ... 

... 

80 

Do.     blonde 

...             ..* 

83 

Do.     bordelaise 

... 

354 

Do.     bread 

..• 

^1 

Do.     chicken  chaud-froid 

...             ... 

378 

Do.    Dutch 

... 

89 

Do.    d'Uxelles 

...             ... 

100 

Do.     Espagnole... 

... 

96 

Do.            do.    descendants  of      ,., 

...                        !•• 

97 

546  INDEX. 


Sauce  financiere 

Do,  fines  herbes 

Do*  for  blanquette 

Do.  for  roast  ^oose 

Do.  for  teal  fillets 

Do.  for  top-dressing^  toasts 

Do.  for  Victoria  pudding 

Do.  Hollandaise 

Do.  horseradish 

Do.  lime  for  puddings  ... 

T)o.  liver  for  hare 

Do.  macedoine 

Do.  ma)onnaise  fordinary) 

Do.  do         with  raw  ep^gs     ... 

Do.  Milanaise 

Do.  mirepoix  ... 

'Do.  mushroom 

Do.  mustard  ... 

Do.  oyster 

Do.  Peg-  Woffington     ...  • 

Do.  Perigueux 

Do.  piquante 

Do.  poivrade... 

Do.  Proven^ale 

Do.  ravigote  (cold) 

Do.  do.       (hot) 

Do.  remoulade  (cold)    ... 

Do.  do.  (hot)      ... 

Do.  Robert      .. 

Do.  royale  for  puddings 

Do.  salad  (plain) 

Do.       do.    with  eggs 

Do.  sorrel 

Do.  soubise     ... 

Do.         do.      au  parmesan  (Milanaise) 

Do.  tartare  (cold) 

Do.        do.      (hot) 

Do.  tomato     ... 

Do.  veloute     ... 

Do.        do.      au  fromage 

Do.  wild  duck  a,  la  minute 

Do.  Wyvern's 
Sauce-making  materials  ... 

Do.        do.       utensils 
Sauces,  Gouffe's  classification  of   ... 
Savoury  pies,  rules  for 

Do.        rice 


... 

9S 

8i,  100, 

,cS:4i<> 

... 

440 

431 

... 

446 

... 

224 

47^> 

... 

84 

()n 

... 

468 

... 

:.27 

... 

368 

go 

!()<» 

... 

83 

... 

100 

... 

3Q2 

... 

86 

411 

... 

348 

... 

97 

...85 

CV421 

S5 

4.^8 

... 

02 

s.s 

9-' 

:::85 

&  474 

85 

... 

476 

20.S 

... 

208 

... 

4"5 

.-^z 

CV417 

S.-N 

... 

92 

85 

... 

242 

... 

9Q 

... 

240 

... 

484 

... 

410 

... 

79 

... 

78 

...  75 

1  .V  94 

*.. 

272 

... 

368 

INDEX,  547 


PAGE. 

Savoury  toasts    ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  222 

Scrambled  eg'gs ...              ...  ...  ..,  ...  235 

Scraps  of  mutton  trimmings  to  use  ...  ...  68 

Seakale                 ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  162 

Seasoning  for  pies             ...  ...  ...  ...  273 

Seer  a  la  Napolitain          ...  ...  ...  ...  360 

Do.  a  la  Perigueux           ...  ...  ...  ...  342 

Do.  au  gratin     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  471 

Do.  en  papillote  ...  ...  ...  ...58&431 

Do.  fish  pie         ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  283 

Do.  orlys  of  with  Hollandaise  sauce  ...  ..-.  398 

Do.  kippered     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  184 

Do.  slices  a  la  Perigueux  ...  ...  ...  342 

Do.  slices  with  Peg  Wol^ngton  sauce  ...  ...  348 

Do.  with  cucumbers          ...  ...  ...  ...  336 

Do.  with  mushrooms        ...  ...  ...  ...  392 

Do.  with  truffle  sauce      ...  ...  ...  ...  342 

Shoulder  of  mutton,  rolled,  and  stuffed  ...  ...  400 

Short  bread  biscuits  for  spinach      ...  ...  ...  146 

Sir  Watkin's  pudding      ...  ...  ...  ...  461 

Snake  vegetable  in  gravy  ...  ...  ...  467 

Snipe,  canapes  of               ...  ...  ...  ...  374 

Do.     chaud-froid  of         ...  ...  ...  ...  368 

Do.     pie             ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  280 

Do.     puree        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  425 

Do.     soup  clear               ...  ...  ...  ...  347 

Do.     turban  of  ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  440 

Socles  Tstands  for  entrees)  ...  ...  ...  75 

Soissons  (dried  haricots)  ...  ...  ...  ...  1 16 

Sorrel  [oseille.)    ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  147 

Do.     puree        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  405 

Sole  fillets  of,  a  la  pauvre  homme  ..,  ...  ...  445 

Do.  fried  a  la  Colbert       ...  ...  ...  ...  489 

Souffle,  chocolate                ...  ...  ...  ...  428 

Do.       de  volaille              ...  ...  ...  ...  476 

Do.       vanilla    ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  448 

Do.       omelette...             ...  ...  ...  ...  480 

Soup  a  la  bonne  femme    ...  ...  ...  ...  44 

Do.    a.  la  Brunoise             ...  ...  ...  ...  359 

Do.    a  la  Crecy  (carrot  Z'z/ree)  ...  ...  ...  49 

Do.    a  la  Gladstone         ...  ...  ...  ...  409 

Do.    a  la  Julienne             ...  ...  ...  ...  341 

Do.    a  la  Nivernaise         ...  ...  ...  ...  444 

Do-    a  I'oignon  (wa/^re).,,  ...  ...  ...  321 

Do.    a  la  Peine...             ...  ...  ...  ...  382 

Do.    a  la  Royale               ...  ...  ...  ...  37^ 

Do.    3M\  ohoux  {maigre),.,  ...  ...  ...  321 


548 


INDEX. 


Soup  aux  oeufs  poches 

Do.  aux  pointes  d'asperges 

Do.  aux  quenelles 

Do.  brunoise 

Do,  bouillon 

Do.  croute-au-pot 

Do.  fat  skimmed  from,  value  of    ... 

Do.  fisli  (clear)... 

Do.  giblet   (clear) 

Do,      do.      (thick) 

Do.  hare 

Do.     do.     puree 

Do.  in  camp 

Do,  kidney  puree 

Do.   maccaroni  ... 

Do.  made  from  tinned  meat  gravy 

Do.  maigre 

Do.  mock  turtle  clear 

Do.     do.      do.     thick 

Do.  mulligatunny  thick  ... 

Do.  do.  clear     ... 

Do.  oxtail  (clear) 

Do.     do.     (thick) 

Do.   Fa\esi\v\e.  {au  gras)  ... 

Do.         do.       {an  fnaigre) 

Do.  partridge  (clear) 

Do.  pearl  barley  {cremc  tf  orgc)  ... 

Do.  prawn  (clear) 

Do.     do.      (puree) 

Do.  rice  puree  {creme  dc  riz) 

Do.  snipe  (clear) 

Do.     do.    (puree) 

Do.  tomato  puree 

Do.  vegetable  puree 

Do.  with  lettuce 
Soup-meat,  use  of 
Soupe  a  I'oignon 

Do.  aux  choux 
Soupirs  de  nonne 
Soupes  maigres  ,.. 
Spiced  beef 

Do.     pepper     ... 

Do.       do.     in  pies 

Do.     salt 
Spinach  [epinards) 
Do.     a  la  creme 
Do.    a  la  VVyvern 


P.\GE. 

482 

377 
335 
359 
489 
474 
33  ^'  263 
353 


311  & 


311  & 


INDEX. 


549 


Spinach  fleurons  of  pastry  with 
Do.     greening 
Do.     on  toast ... 
Do.     plain 

Do.     puree  with  cream... 
Do.     short  bread  biscuits  for 
Do.     to  dress  ... 
Do.     with  anchovy  toast 
Do.     with  eggs  and  tomatoes 
Spitting  meat,  concerning 
Sportsman's  luncheon,  the 
Steak  a  la  jardmiere 
Do.     jugged 
Do.     pickled     ... 
Steamer  Warren's  recommended 
Steaming 

Do.       cabbage 
Do.       French  beans     ... 
Do.       potatoes 
Stewed  artichokes 

Do.     beef  a  la  mode     ... 

do.  fillet  a  I'ltalienne 

do.  pressed 

do.  spiced 

do.  steak 

cabbage  [an  jtis)  ••• 

carrots  a  la  flamande 

celery  in  blanc 

cucumber 

cutlets     ... 

eels  {matelote) 

fish  ...  ^    ... 

hare  {ci-vet  de  lievre) 

joint  (braised) 

jungle  sheep 

peas 

turnips  ... 


Do. 

Do. 

Do 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Stock 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


blanc 

fish  

vegetable. .- 
Stores,  oilman's  selection  of 
Strawberries,  mould  of 
Strawberry,  cream  ice 
Stuffing  for  braised  fowl  ... 
Do.     for  capons  and  turkeys 
Do.     for  ducks  and  geese 


PAGE. 
146 
50 
147 
145 
146 
146 
146 
147 
147 
106 

460 
122 
408 
141 
120 
140 

137 
129 

123 
189 
255 
255 
460 
141 

160 
156 

67 
416 

58 
328 
104 
329 
136 
153 

31 
166 

311 
311 

.  28  &  29 

340 
352 
108 
108 
IIO&  HI 


550  INDEX. 


PAGE. 


Stuffinsf  for  pork  ...  ...  ...  ...  ill 

Sue  colorant        ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  35 

Syringe  in  salting  meat,  value  of  a  ...  ...  251 


^  abasco           ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  35 

Tamarind  chutney             ...  ...  ...  ...  306 

Tarragon  in  aspic  jelly     ...  ...  ...  ...  386 

Do.      in  soups              ...  ...  ...  ...  39 

Tartare  sauce  (cold)          ...  ...  ...  ...  92 

Do.       do.     (hot)            ...  ...  ...  ...  85 

Teal  roast,  with  watercress  ...  ...  ...  407 

Do  fillets,  Wyvern's  way  ...  ...  ...  446 

Do.  with  bis^arade  sauce...  ...  ...  ...  475 

Time  in  boiling  ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  117 

Do.  in  roasting                 ...  ...  ...  ...  113 

Tinned  butters    ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  74 

Do.     fish  (cold)              ...  ...  ...  ...  323 

Do.     do.  (hot)                ...  ...  ...  ...  323 

Do.     do.  treatment  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  323 

Do.     meat  (Australian)  ...  ...  ...  324 

Do.     do.  a  mince  of      ...  ...  ...  ...  326 

Do.     meats  generally  ...  ...  ...  ...  326 

Do.        do.     soup  from...  ...  ...  ...  325 

Do.        do.     to  treat      ...  ...  ...  ...  325 

Do.     vegetables             ...  ...  ...  ...  163 

Thick  soups        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  43 

Thickening  soups               ...  ...  ...  ...  46 

Do.         sauces             ...  ...  ...  ...  100 

Do.         to  increase  if  necessary  ...  ,...\6  &:  100 

Toast  anchovy  ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  223 

Do.         do.       made  at  the  table  ...  ...  ...  224 

Do.     artichokes  on,         ...  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     asparagus  on,]         ...  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     bandecai,                 ...  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     beetroot  leaves  on,  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     brinjal       ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     buttered  egg           ...  ...  ...  ...  224 

Do.     cauliflower  on,         ...  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     cocoanut  flower       ...  ...  ...  ...  230 

Do.     country  greens  on,  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     cheese       ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  231 

Do.     drumstick  seed       ...  ...  ...  ...  230 

^^-     egg  and  cream        ...  ...  ...  ...  230 

Do.     eggs,  ways  of  serving  upon  ...  ...  ...  230 

Do.     foie  gras  ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  226 

Do.     game        ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  228 


INDEX.  551 


Toast  hard-boiled  egg      ...  ...  ...  ...  225 

Do.     kidney      ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  227 

Do.         do.      cut  from  a  cold  saddle  of  mutton  on   ...  227 

Do.     making,  rules  for  ...  ...  ...  ...  222 

Do.     mock  crab               ...  ...  ...  ...  232 

Do.     moUay-keray           ...  ...  ...  ...  229 

Do.     with  pate  de  foie  gras  ...  ...  ...  226 

Do.     purees  upon           ...  ...  ...  ...  224 

Do.     ramequin                 ...  ...  ...  ...  232 

Do.     salmon     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  230 

Do.     sardine     ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  230 

Do.     spinach      ...              ...  ...  ...  ...  228 

Do.     top-dressings  for    ...  •••  ...  ...  224 

Do.     vegetable  marrow,  and  cucumber      ...  ...  229 

Do.     Welsh  rarebit         ...  ...  ...  ...  231 

Do.     woodcock                 ...  ...  ...  ...  226 

Tomatoes  (tomates)           ...  ...  ...  ...  157 

Do.       a  I'ltalienne      ...  ...  ...  ...  159 

Do.       au  gratin           ...  ...  ...  ...  158 

Tomato  chutney                 ...  ...  ...  ...  305 

Do.      conserve               ...  ...  ...  ...  242 

Do.      omelette                ...  ...  ...  ...  182 

Do.      puree  (soup)         ...  ...  ...  ...  478 

Do.      salad     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  207 

Do.      sauce     ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  242 

Do.      soup       ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  478 

Tongue  in  jelly  ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  465 

Tongues  to  cure ...             ...  ...  ...  ...  252 

Do.         do.     of  deer  and  bison  ...  ...  ...  253 

Do.     to  glaze...              ...  ...  ...  ...  254 

Do.     to  straighten  when  boiled  ...  ...  ...  253 

Topinambours  a  la  creme  ...  ...  ...  149 

Do.               aux  oeufs  ...  ...  ...  ...  237 

Do.                 do.       farcis  ...  ...  ...  238 

Tourne-dos  de  bceuf          ...  ...  ...  ...  410 

Traveller's  luncheon,  the...  ...  ...  ...  193 

Trimming  cutlets                ...  ...  ...  ...  ^^ 

Do.         artichokes        ...  ...  ...  ...  150 

Do.             do.         bottoms  ...  ...  ...  151 

TruflFles,  essence  of            ...  ...  •••  •••  282 

Do.      to  prepare  for  pies  ...  «.•  •••  282 

Do.      served  in  croustades  ...  •••  ••'  4^6 

Turban  of  snipes                 ...  •«•  •••  •••  440 

Turkey,  boiled    ...             ...  ••.  •••  •••  119 

Do.      hen  braised  a  la  jardiniere  ...  ...  379 

Do.       do.       do.      au  chou-fleur...  ...  -«••  427 

Ho,      roast  a  la  Perigueux  ...  ...  •••  374 


552  INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Turkey,  stuffing                 —  —  —  —  loS 

Turnip  tops         ...             ...  •••  •••  •••  '47 

Tuvn'x^s  (naijets) -.'             ...  ...  •••  ...  I53 

Do.      s^lazed  (navcts-glaces)  ...  ...  ...  153 

Do.      to  trim  ...             ...  •••  ...  ••■  153 

Twice-laid  of  fish               ...  ...  ...  ...  168 

Do.         of  meat            ...  ...  —  ••.  i?' 


>j.)Tjalois  sauce  ...             -•             ...             •••             ...  379 

Vanilla  custard  ice             ...              ...              ...              ...  45^ 

Do.     souffle     ...             •"             ...             —             ...  44^"^ 

Veal  cutlets        ...             •••             ...             ...             •••  68 

Do.  stock,  a  substitute  for             ...              ...              ...  95 

Vegetable  marrow  au  gratin            ...              ...              ...  156 

^56 

156 

229 

'55 


Do. 

do. 

fritters  (beignets) 

Do. 

do. 

mock  whitebait  of 

Do. 

do. 

toast  ... 

Do. 

do. 

to  cook 

Do. 

stock 

... 

1 1 


Vegetables  as  entremets  ...             ...  ...  ...  126 

Do.          classified          ...             ...  ...  ...  127 

Do.  not  to  be  handed  round  with  entrees  ...  11  &:    74 

Do.          proportion  of  to  meet  in  soup     ...  ...  41 

Veloute  sauce     ...             ...             ...  •..  ...  91) 

Do.       do.     au  fromage  ...             ...  ...  ...  239 

Do.       do.     descendants  of            ...  ...  ...  99 

V^nitienne  sauce                ...              ...  ...  ...  38.^ 

Victoria  pudding,               ...              ...  ...  ...  47t' 

Do.           do.       sauce  for                ...  ...  ...  476 

Viennoise  pudding            ...             ...  ...  ...  472 

Vinegar  aromatic               ...              ...  ...  ...  206 

Do.       fines  herbes          ...              ...  ...  ...  20O 

Do.       in  salads  over  use  of           ...  ...  ...  204 

Do.       reduced,  in  sauces              ...  ...  ...  ux) 

Vol-au-vent  pastry  case  to  make    ...  ...  ...  39''> 

Do.         concerning  the              ...  ...  ...  72 

c<j  arren  s  pot               ...             ...  ...  ...  i2( 

Do.           steamer       ...             ...  ...  ...  I4I 

Water-cress  (cooked  like  spinach)  ...  ...  ...  147 

Do.         with  the  rot    ... 

Welsh  rarebit  toast 

Wild  duck,  roast                ,..              ...  ...  ...  4S4 

Do.         sauce  a  la  minute  for ...  ...  ...  48^ 

Do.           do.    bisrarade  for       ...  ...  ...  -^^i 


/ 
2^  r 


INDEX. 


653 


Whitebait  mock... 
White  sauce,  plain 
Do.      do.    varieties  of  ... 
Do.      do.     made  with  bechamel, 
Whitings  a  I'Am^ricaine... 
Do.      a  la  remoulade  (hot) 
Do.      aux  fines  herbes 
Do.      with  sharp  sauce 
Wine  in  savoury  pies 
Do.   reduced  in  sauces  ... 
Do.   soups 
Wire  frying  basket,  the    ... 
Woodcock  toast... 


&c. 


PAGE. 

80 
81 
98 

404 

474 
410 
421 

273 
100 
36 
193 
226 


'^^-jams,  to  cook 
Yeatman's  baking  powder 

Do.  do.        do.     in  bread  making. 

Do.  do.        do.     in  pastry 


167 
317 
317 
264 


^ 


X/»tv 


re 


I       : 


