15  Y€^RS 


BERKELEY 

LIBRARY 

UNWERSITY  Of 
CALlFORhHA 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

AGRICULTURE 
BEQUEST 

OF 

ANITA  D.  S.  BLAKE 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/culinaryreceiptsOOfilirich 


jlanbg  Volume  CuUnarg  Qtxits, 

No.  1. 


One  Hundred  Ways  of  Cooking  Eggs. 


ONE   HUNDRED   WAYS    OF 
COOKING   EGGS 


BY 

FILIPPINI 

<TWENTV-FIVE   YEARS   WITH    DELMONICO) 


NEW  YORK  AND  BOSTON 
H.  M.  CALDWELL    COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 


Copyright,  i8g2, 
By  Charles  L,  Webster  &  Co. 

{All  rights  reserved.) 

AGRICULTURE 
GIFT 

(iDDlontal  ^rcss: 

Electrotyped  and  Printed  by  C.  H.  Sinnonds  &  Co. 
Boston,  U.  S.  A. 


AGRIC. 
LIBAARY 

A  WORD  OF  ADVICE, 


Eggs  are  not  fit  for  any  purpose  unless  they  are  perfectly  fresh. 
An  easy  method  of  ascertaining  the  freshness  of  an  ^g^  is  to  hold  it 
toward  the  sun  or  toward  a  good  light.  If  fresh,  it  will  be  perfectly 
clear;  if  it  is  clear  on  one  side  and  cloudy  on  the  other,  it  is  stale. 
Another  good  test  is  to  place  the  eggs  in  a  pan  filled  with  water; 
those  that  sink  to  the  bottom  are  perfectly  fresh;  if  they  float  at  the 
top  or  stand  on  end  in  the  water,  they  are  unfit  for  use. 


148 


NOTES 


A  pinch  of  salt  represents  205  grains,  or  a  tablespoonful. 

Half  a  pinch  of  pepper  represents  38  grains,  or  a  teaspoonful. 

A  third  of  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  represents  13  grains,  or  half  a  tea- 
spoonful. 

The  recipes  referred  to  in  the  "  One  Hundred  Ways  of  Cooking 
Eggs  "  will  be  found  in  the  appendix. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Poached 9 

Scrambled  Eggs 10 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Asparagus  Tops. .  10 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Truffles 11 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Smoked  Beef 11 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Chicory 12 

Eggs  a  la  Livingston 13 

Eggs  a  la  Bourguignonne  13 

Fried  Eggs 14 

Eggsau  Beurre  Noir 15 

Eggs  au  Soleil 16 

Eggs  a  la  Bechamel 17 

Eggs  a  la  Pauvre  Femme 18 

Eggsau  Gratin 19 

Eggs  a  la  Tripe 20 

Eggs  a  la  Vanderbilt 21 

Eggs  a  la  Valencienne 22 

Eggs  a  la  Provengale 23 

Eggs  en  Filets 24 

Eggs  a  la  Finoise 25 

Eggs  au  Miroir 26 

Eggs  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 27 

Eggs  with  Celery 28 

Eggs  with  Truffles 29 

Eggs  with  Tarragon 30 

Eggs  with  Livers 31 

Eggs  au  Parmesan 32 

Eggs  a  la  Bonne  Femme 33 

Eggs  a  la  Paysanne 34 

Eggs  a  la  Regence. 35 


No.  PAGE 

31.  Eggs  with  Melted  Cheese 36 

32.  Eggs  en  Panade 37 

33.  Eggs  a  la  Meyerbeer 38 

34.  Eggs  a  la  Reine 39 

35.  Eggs  a  la  Turque 40 

36.  Eggs  a  ITmperatrice 41 

37.  Eggs  a  la  Suisse 41 

38.  Eggs  a  la  Chipolata 42 

39.  Eggs  a  I'Alsacienne 42 

40.  Eggs  a  I'Aurore 43 

41.  Eggs  a  la  Polonaise 44 

42.  Eggs  a  la  Sauce  Robert 45 

43.  Eggs  a  la  Hyde 46 

44.  Eggs  a  la  Bennett 48 

45.  Eggs  a  la  Duchesse 49 

46.  Plain  Omelet '. .  50 

47.  Omelet  with  Fine  Herbs 52 

48.  Oyster  Omelet 53 

49.  Crawfish  Omelet 54 

50.  Lobster  Omelet 55 

51.  Tomato  Omelet 56 

52.  Tomato  Omelet  a  la  Provengale 57 

53.  Asparagus-top  Omelet 58 

54.  Omelet,  with  Green  Peas  .....* 58 

55.  Omelet  au  Cepes 59 

56.  Smoked  Beef  Omelet 59 

57.  Ham  Omelet 60 

58.  Crab  Omelet 60 

59.  Kidney  Omelet 61 

60.  Chicken  Liver  Omelet 61 


CONTENTS. 


No.  PAGE 

6i.  Sausage  Omelet 62 

62.  Omelet  Bonne  Femme 63 

63.  Omelet  Raspail 64 

64.  Sardine  Omelet 65 

65.  Cheese  Omelet 66 

66.  Omelet  Regence 67 

67.  Omelet  a  la  Vanderbilt 68 

68.  Omelet  a  I'ELspagnole  69 

69.  Omelet  Mexicaine 70 

70.  Sweet  Omelette 71 

71.  Omelet  Soufflee,  for  Six  Persons 72 

72.  Omelet  au  Kirsch,  or  Rum 74 

73.  Omelet  Celestine 75 

74.  Eggs  a  la  W.  B.  Kendall 76 

75.  Eggs  Molet 78 

76.  Eggs  a  la  Villeroi 79 

77.  Eggs  a  la  Buckley 80 

78.  Eggs  a  la  Jay  Gould 82 

79.  Eggs  a  la  W.  M.  Evarts 84 

80.  Eggs  a  la  Geo.  O.Jones 86 

81.  Eggs  a  la  A.  F.  Bowers 88 

82.  Eggs  a  la  Hamilton  Fish 90 

83.  Eggs  a  la  Darling 92 

84.  Eggs  a  la  Mme.  Morton 93 

85.  Eggs  a  la  Belmont 94 

86.  Eggs  a  la  'Mme.  Diaz 96 

87.  Eggs  a  la  D.  B.  Hill 97 

88.  Eggs  a  la  W.  W.  Ladd,  Jr 98 

89.  Eggs  a  la  Cockrane 100 

90.  Eggs  a  la  Lloyd  Aspinwall 102 

91.  Omelet  Creme  de  Vanille  a  la  R.  A.  C. 

Smith 104 


No. 
92. 
93- 
94. 

96. 

97- 
98. 

99. 

100. 


lOI. 

102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 
no, 
in 

112. 

1I3- 

114. 
115. 
116, 
117, 
118, 
119. 

120, 

121, 


PAGE 

Omelet  k  la  Claik 106 

Omelet  Hughes 106 

Omelet  a  la  E.  L.  Godkin 107 

Omelet  a  la  M,  Ballou 108 

Eggs-Cocotte 109 

Omelet  a  la  Mrs,  W.  L.  Brown no 

Eggs-Cocotte  a  la  Wm.  Bracken 112 

Fried  Eggs  for  Garnishing 113 

Egg  Stuflfed  a  la  Higgins 114 

APPENDIX. 

Bouillon  Blanc — white  broth 

Croutons  for  Soups 

Sauce  Demi-Glace,  or  Madeira 

Batter  for  Fritters 

Sauce  Espagnole — for  one  gallon 

A  Bouquet — how  to  prepare 

Mirepoix 

Bechamel  Sauce 

White-Roux 

Sauce  Perigueux 

Sauce  Allemande 

Garnishing  a  la  Chipolata — for  one  gal. 

Glazed  Onions  for  Garnishing .... 

Eggs  a  la  Regence 

Sauce  Veloute 

Lobster  Butte? 

Puree  of  Chestnuts 

Sauce  a  la  Poulette 

Cream  Sauce 

Sauce  Colbert 

Meat  Glace. — Glace  de  Viande 


117 
117 

118 
118 
118 
119 
119 
119 
"9 

I20 
120 
120 


121 
122 
122 
122 
122 


Nx 


Poached. 


Boil  in  a  deep  saucepan  three  quarts  of  water  with  a  heavy  pinch  of 
salt  and  three  drops  of  vinegar.  Have  easily  at  hand  twelve  fresh 
eggs.  When,  and  only  when,  the  water  boils,  rapidly  but  carefully 
crack  six  of  them,  one  by  one.  As  success  to  have  them  in  proper 
shape  and  cooked  to  perfection  depends  upon  how  they  are  handled, 
special  care  should  be  taken  to  crack  them  as  rapidly  as  possible, 
carefully  avoiding  to  break  the  yolks,  and  dropping  each  one  right  on 
the  spot  where  the  water  bubbles,  and  as  near  the  boiling-point  as 
possible.  Poach  for  one  minute  and  a  quarter  from  the  time  that  the 
water  boils  after  the  eggs  were  put  in.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer, 
lay  them  on  the  freshly  prepared  toasts,  or  use  for  any  other  desired 
purpose;  and  repeat  the  same  with  the  other  six.  If  handled  strictly 
as  above  described  you  will  have  them  to  perfection,  and  no  necessity 
of  trimming  any  superfluous  adherings;  serve  when  required. 


2.  Scrambled  Eggs, 

Melt  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  break  into  it  twelve 
fresh  eggs;  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  a 
third  of  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  thoroughly  without  stopping 
for  three  minutes,  using  a  spatula,  and  having  the  pan  on  a  very  hot 
stove.  Turn  into  a  warm  tureen,  add  a  little  verjuice  or  lemon  juice, 
and  send  to  the  table  very  hot. 


3.  Scrambled  Eggs  with  Asparagus   Tops, 

To  be  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  for  No.  2.  After  the  eggs 
hav€  been  well  mixed  with  butter  in  the  pan,  there  is  added  a  quarter 
of  a  bunch  of  freshly  boiled  asparagus-tops. 


10 


4-  Scrambled  Eggs  with    Truffles. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  four  good-sized,  sliced  truffles  with  a  glassful 
of  Madeira  wine.  Reduce  to  about  half,  which  will  take  two  minutes; 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  half 
a  pinch  of  pepper.  Crack  into  the  saucepan  twelve  eggs,  mix  all  well 
together  with  the  spatula  for  three  minutes  on  a  very  hot  stove  with- 
out stopping.     Turn  into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve. 


5.  Scrambled  Eggs  with  Smoked  Beef. 

Fry  in  a  sautoire  for  one  minute  two  ounces  of  finely  minced 
smoked  beef.  Scramble  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  2,  mixing  with  the 
above  prepared  beef.  Any  kind  of  garnishing  may  be  added  to  the 
scrambled  eggs. 


6.  Scrambled  Eggs  with    Chicory. 

Blanch  for  iifteen  minutes  a  good-sized  head  of  chicory;  drain  it 
and  cut  it  into  one-inch  lengths.  Put  these  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot 
stove  with  an  ounce  of  butter  and  one  minced  onion,  fry,  and  then 
moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  broth  (No.  loi),  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Let  cook  until  all  the  liquid  is  evaporated 
(which  will  take  from  twenty  to  twenty-two  minutes).  Break  twelve 
eggs  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  chicory  and  another  ounce  of  butter, 
then  scramble  with  a  spatula  all  together  for  four  minutes,  and  serve 
with  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  102)  around  the  dish. 


12 


7-    Eggs   a   la  Livingston, 

Cover  six  pieces  of  cut  toast  with  pate-de-foie-gras,  lay  them  on  a 
dish,  and  pour  twelve  scrambled  eggs  over  (No.  2),  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  demi-glace  around  the  dish  and  serve  (No.  103). 

^  8.    Eggs  a  la  Bourguignonne, 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoonf ul  of  meat-glaze  with  one  pint 
of  broth  (No.  loi).  Boil,  then  crack  into  it  two  fresh  eggs,  and  poach 
for  one  and  a  quarter  minutes.  Carefully  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  and 
gently  lay  them  on  a  hot  silver  dish.  Repeat  the  same  operation  with 
ten  more,  two  at  a  time;  when  all  on  the  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  an 
ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Place  in  the  hot  oven  to  brown  for 
one  minute.  Reduce  the  gravy  in  which  they  were  poached  to  one- 
half,  then  carefully  pour  the  sauce  around  the  eggs,  but  not  over 
them,  and  serve  hot. 

13 


V 


9-   Fried  Eggs. 

Place  in  a  frying-pan  on  the  hot  range  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
very  good  sweet  oil,  heat  it  well,  then  carefully  break  into  it  one 
fresh  tgg^  being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolk,  and  with  the  aid  of  a 
table  knife  fold  the  white  right  over  the  yolk,  cook  for  a  quarter  of  a 
minute,  turn  it  over  with  a  cake-turner,  cook  for  a  quarter  of  a  min- 
ute on  the  other  side,  lift  it  up  with  the  cake-turner,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin.  Proceed  precisely  the  same  way  with 
eleven  more,  and  then  they  will  be  ready  to  serve  for  any  purpose 
desired. 

N.  B. — Mix  one  pinch  of  salt,  and  half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper, 
and  as  soon  as  the  eggs  are  dressed  on  the  dish  season  each  one 
evenly  with  it;  taking  special  care  to  cook  them  separately,  and  no 
more  than  a  quarter  of  a  minute  on  each  side. 


14 


\ 


lo.   Eggs  au  Beurre  Noir. 


Put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  on  the  hot  stove,  let  heat 
well,  but  not  brown;  break  gently  into  a  dish  twelve  very  fresh  eggs, 
slide  them  carefully  into  the  pan,  then  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper;  let  cook  slowly  for  three  minutes.  Have 
ready  a  hot,  flat  dish,  slide  the  eggs  gently  onto  it,  without  turning 
them  over,  and  be  careful  to  avoid  breaking  them;  lay  the  dish  con- 
taining the  eggs  in  a  warm  place.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  the 
same  pan,  place  it  on  the  hot  stove,  and  let  the  butter  get  a  good 
brown  color  for  three  minutes,  then  drop  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar.    Pour  this  over  the  eggs,  and  serve. 


15 


1 1 .  Eggs  au  Soleil. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  in  a  frying-pan  on  the  hot  stove, 
break  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  dropping  them  in  carefully,  one  by  one; 
let  them  cook  for  two  minutes,  then  with  a  skimmer  take  each  one  up 
separately  and  lay  it  carefully  on  a  dry  cloth.  Have  some  fritter- 
batter  (No.  104)  ready,  cut  apiece  of  half-cooked  bacon  into  small, 
square  pieces  of  about  an  inch,  and  add  them  to  the  batter,  then  dip 
in  the  eggs,  one  after  the  other,  taking  up  with  each  one  a  piece  of 
the  bacon,  and  with  the  fingers  drop  them  into  very  hot  grease,  and 
cook  to  a  good  golden  color  for  two  minutes.  Lift  them  up  with  the 
skimmer,  lay  them  on  a  dry  cloth  to  drain;  sprinkle  over  half  a  pinch 
of  salt,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  se*-ve. 


16 


12.    Eggs  h  la  Bdchamel. 

Pour  one  pint  of  bechamel  (No.  io8)  into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it 
on  the  hot  stove.  Cut  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves,  add  them  to 
the  hot  bechamel ;  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  and  let 
heat  thoroughly  for  three  minutes,  but  be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil. 
Add  one  ounce  of  butter  and  a  saltspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  then 
pour  it  on  a  hot  serving-dish,  and  serve  with  six  heart-shaped  croiitons 
(No.  102). 


17 


13.    Eggs  tb  la  Pauvre  Femme. 

Heat  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  dish  on  the  hot  stove,  then  break 
into  it  twelve  fresh  eggs,  and  sprinkle  over  two  ounces  of  fresh  bread- 
crumbs. Set  the  dish  in  the  hot  oven,  and  let  bake  for  two  minutes; 
then  pour  over  the  eggs  half  a  pint  of  well-reduced  Espagnole  sauce 
(No.  105),  add  three  ounces  of  cooked,  tender  ham,  or  cooked  kid- 
neys cut  up  finely,  and  serve. 


1% 


14-    Eggs  au    Gratin, 

Knead  well  together  in  a  bowl,  one  tablespoonful  of  bread-crumbs, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  three  chopped  anchovies,  a  pinch  of  parsley,  a 
pinch  of  chervil,  one  chopped  shallot,  three  raw  t%^  yolks,  a  good 
pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nut- 
meg. When  ready,  put  these  ingredients  into  a  silver  baking-dish  (by 
preference)  with  one  ounce  of  butter  at  the  bottom.  Place  it  on  a 
slow  fire  for  two  minutes,  then  break  over  it  six  eggs,  which  will 
be  plenty;  cook  for  five  minutes  in  the  hot  oven,  remove,  lay  the 
dish  on  top  of  another,  and  serve  immediately. 


19 


\ 


15.    Eggs   a    la    Tripe. 

Fry  two  medium-sized,  sound,  sliced  onions  in  a  frying-pan  with 
two  ounces  of  butter,  but  do  not  brown  them;  mix  in  half  a  spoonful 
of  flour,  and  a  large  cupful  of  sweet  cream;  season  with  a  pinch  of 
salt,  half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  and  the  third  of  a  pinch  of  grated 
nutmeg.  Cook  for  eight  minutes,  stirring  constantly  with  the  spatu- 
la; then  add  twelve  sliced,  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  heat  together  thor- 
oughly for  two  minutes  without  letting  it  boil  again;  pour  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 


20 


1 6.  Eggs  a  la   Vanderbilt, 

Place  one  ounce  of  good  butter  on  a  silver  dish,  set  it  on' the  hot 
stove,  and  break  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  being  careful  not  to  disturb  the 
yolks;  season  with  a  light  pinch  of  salt  and  the  third  of  a  pinch  of 
pepper;  then  let  cook  slowly  for  four  minutes.  Pour  over  the  eggs  a 
pint  of  hot  Vanderbilt  garnishing  as  for  the  omelet  (No.  67),  and 
serve  immediately. 


21 


17-  Eggs  a  la   Valencienne, 

Put  into  a  saucepan  half  a  pint  of  hot,  boiled  rice,  half  a  pint 
of  hot  tomato  _sauce,  two  good  -  sized  mushrooms,  cut  julienne- 
shaped,  one  truffle  cut  the  same,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese;  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  and  the  third  of  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  and  let  cook  on  the 
hot  stove  for  five  minutes,  stirring  it  lightly  with  the  spatula.  Leave 
the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  stove  to  keep  warm,  while  putting  half 
an  ounce  of  good  butter  on  a  silver  dish,  and  when  placed  on  the  hot 
stove,  crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
yolks;  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  third  of  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  then  let  cook  for  two  minutes.  Dress  the  prepared  garnishing 
in  four  dome-shaped  heaps — one  at  each  end  of  the  dish,  and  one  at 
each  side — and  serve  immediately. 


22 


1 8.  Eggs  ^  la  Pravengale, 

Pour  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  into  a  small  frying-pan,  and  set  it 
on  the  fire.  When  well  heated,  break  one  ^gg  into  a  bowl,  season 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper  (divided  up  for  the 
twelve  eggs),  then  drop  it  into  the  oil;  baste  the  t,gg  with  a  spoon, 
turn  it  over,  and  when  a  good  color  on  both  sides,  drain  it  on  a  wire 
sieve.  Cook  the  twelve  eggs  separately  (each  one  will  take  two  min- 
utes), then  pare  them  nicely,  and  serve  crown-shaped  on  a  dish,  put- 
ting a  oiece  of  fried  b/ead  between  every  other  one.  Pour  over  half 
a  pint  of  reduced  Espagnole  (No.  105),  to  which  has  been  added  the 
zest  of  a  lemon,  and  six  sliced  mushrooms,  and  serve  very  hot. 


23 


1 9-  Eggs  en  Filets. 

Mix  in  a  dish  that  may  be  put  in  the  oven  (a  silver  one  by  prefer- 
ence) twelve  raw  tg%  yolks,  with  a  spoonful  of  brandy  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Cook  them  for  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  then  let  them  cool; 
cut  the  preparation  into  twelve  thin  fillets  or  slices,  and  steep  each 
one  in  a  light  pancake  batter.  Fry  them  in  very  hot  fat  for  about 
two  minutes,  then  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  lay  them  on  a  napkin  to 
drain,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin  laid  on  a  hot  dish  and  garnished 
with  fried  parsley. 


24 


20.    Eggs  a  la  Finoise. 

Pour  a  pint  of  good  tomato  sauce  into  a  saucepan  on  the  hot 
stove,  add  two  cut-up,  peeled,  sweet  peppers,  fry  for  two  minutes  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  chives,  and 
reduce  it  gradually  to  about  half  the  quantity,  which  will  take  ten 
minutes.  Poach  six  very  fresh  eggs,  as  for  No.  i,  pare  their  edges 
neatly.  Place  six  freshly  prepared  hot  toasts  on  a  warm  serving-dish, 
arrange  the  eggs  carefully  on  top,  and  pour  the  above  sauce  over 
all,  then  send  them  to  the  table  at  once. 


25 


\ 


21.  Eggs  an  Miroir, 

Lightly  butter  a  silver  dish  large  enough  to  hold  twelve  eggs,  one 
beside  another;  carefully  break  into  it  twelve  eggs,  taking  care  to 
keep  the  yolks  intact.  Evenly  sprinkle  over  them  half  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Cook  for  one  minute  on  a  hot  stove;  then  place  them  in  the 
oven  for  one  and  a  half  minutes.  Take  out,  and  place  the  dish  on 
another,  and  serve. 


26 


22.  Eggs  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 

Peel,  wash,  and  drain  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine,  fresh  mush- 
rooms. Place  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  very  good 
butter.  Season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  third  of  a  pinch  of 
white  pepper,  squeezing  in  first  two  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cover  the 
saucepan,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  on  a  moderate  fire.  Add  a  quar- 
ter of  a  glassful  of  good  Madeira  wine;  reduce  to  one-half,  which  will 
take  two  minutes;  add  now  a  gill  of  bechamel  sauce  (No.  io8),  and 
let  come  to  a  boil  again.  Prepare  twelve  fresh-poached  eggs,  as  in 
No.  i;  pour  the  sauce  on  a  hot  serving-dish,  keeping  the  mush- 
rooms in  the  saucepan.  Neatly  lay  the  eggs  over  the  sauce  around 
the  dish,  and  dress  the  mushrooms  right  in  the  centre,  and  serve  very 
hot. 


27 


23.  Eggs  with  Celery, 

Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  in  a  quart  of  white  broth  (No.  loi  ),  two 
heads  of  well-washed  and  neatly  pared,  sound  celery.  Remove  it 
from  the  broth;  then  cut  it  up  in  one-inch-length  pieces,  and  return 
it  to  the  pan  with  the  broth  in  which  it  was  first  boiled,  leaving  it  on 
the  hot  stove.  Season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  the  third  of  a  pinch 
of  white  pepper.  Reduce  to  three-quarters  (which  will  require  ten 
minutes).  Add  a  gill  of  hot  bechamel  sauce  (No.  108),  let  come  to 
a  boil.  Poach  twelve  fresh  eggs  exactly  as  in  No.  i,  neatly  arrange 
them  on  a  hot  dish,  crown-like.  Pour  the  celery  sauce  right  in  the 
centre,  and  serve  very  hot. 


28 


24-  Eggs  with    Truffles. 

Peel  three  medium-sized,  sound  truffles.  Cut  them  into  thin 
slices,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  glassful  of  Madeira  wine;  reduce  to 
one-half  on  a  moderate  fire.  Season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  the 
third  of  a  pinch  of  white  pepper;  add  one  gill  of  bechamel  sauce  (No. 
1 08);  let  come  to  a  boil.  Prepare  twelve  heart-shaped  crotitons  (No. 
102);  dip  the  thin  parts  first  into  the  sauce  half  an  inch  in  depth,  then 
into  fresh,  finely  chopped-up  parsley  up  to  the  same  depth.  Gently 
dress  (arrange)  them  on  the  hot  serving-dish  in  star-shape,  so  that  the 
decorated  ends  of  the  crotitons  will  just  reach  up  to  the  edge^f  the 
dish  equally  all  around.  Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  exactly  the 
same  as  in  No.  i;  dress  an  tg%  on  each  crouton.  Gently  pour  the 
above  prepared  sauce  right  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  being  careful  not 
to  pour  any  over  the  eggs.  Evenly  slice  one  good- sized,  sound  truffle 
into  twelve  equal  slices;  dip  them  in  a  little  hot  broth  for  two  sec- 
onds; lay  one  slice  on  top  of  each  tg%^  and  serve  immediately. 

29 


25-  Eggs  with    Tarragon, 

Blanch  for  one  minute  in  a  sautoire  a  quarter  of  a  bunch  of  tarra- 
gon-leaves, drain,  and  chop  them  up  very  fine.  Break  twelve  eggs 
into  a  bowl,  add  the  tarragon,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a 
pinch  of  pepper,  and  beat  well  for  four  minutes;  meanwhile  adding 
half  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream.  Then  make  an  omelet,  as  for  No.  46, 
and  rojjit  on  a  hot  serving-dish.  Prepare  a  little  roux  with  flour  and 
butter  (No.  109),  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  strong  broth  and  a  glass- 
ful of  white  wine;  skim  off  any  fat  that  may  accumulate  on  top,  and 
let  it  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and 
pour  it  around  the  omelet;  then  serve. 


30 


\ 


'26.  Eggs  with  Livers, 

Remove  the  gall  carefully  from  about" a  pint  of  chicken  livers, wash 
them  well,  drain,  and  slice  them  into  small  pieces.  Place  them  in  a 
sautoire  with  one  ounce  of  butter;  range  the  pan  on  the  hot  stove, 
then  season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper  ;  toss 
the  contents  gently  for  two  minutes  ;  then  add  a  pinch  of  chopped 
parsley,  one  pinch  of  chervil,  and  three  well-minced  mushrooms,  and 
moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  sauce  (No.  103);  and  let  cook  for 
five  minutes  ;  make  an  omelet  of  twelve  eggs,  as  for  No.  46,  and 
when  ready  to  finish,  pour  the  livers  in  the  centre,  reserving  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  it  for  further  action  ;  close  the  sides  up  carefully, 
cook  two  seconds  longer,  then  gently  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and,  with 
a  spoon,  pour  all  the  sauce  around  the  omelet.  Dress  the  livers  that 
were  reserved,  at  both  ends  of  the  omelet,  equally  divided,  and  serve. 


27.  Eggs  au  Parmesan, 

Beat  twelve  eggs  in  a  saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  but  no  salt ;  stir  them  well  with 
a  whip,  and  make  of  this  six  small  omelets,  as  for  No.  46.  As  soon 
as  they  are  sufficiently  firm,  lay  them  on  a  dish.  Besprinkle  the  tops 
with  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  roll,  and  trim  them  nicely, 
sprinkle  more  cheese  over  the  tops,  wipe  off  the  sides  of  the  dish,  and 
put  them  in  a  hot  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven, 
pour  around  the  omelets  one  gill  of  hot  Madeira  sauce  (No.  103),  and 
serve  very  hot. 


32 


2S,    Eggs  a   la   Bonne  Femme. 

Slice  two  large,  sound  onions,  and  fry  them  in  two  ounces  of 
butter,  in  a  saucepan,  stirring  frequently,  so  that  they  do  not  burn  ; 
when  done,  dredge  in  a  good  pinch  of  flour,  moistening  with  half  a 
pint  of  cream  or  milk,  and  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Break  six  eggs,  froth  tKe 
whites,  mix  the  yolks  with  the  onions,  and  afterward  the  beaten  whites, 
stirring  well.  Lay  two  pieces  of  white  paper  on  the  bottom  of  a  bak- 
ing-tin, butter  them  thoroughly,  lay  the  eggs  on  top,  and  set  it  in  the 
oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  turn  them  on  to  a  hot 
dish,  remove  the  papers,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Espagnole  sauce 
(No.  105)  to  the  eggs  and  serve. 


33 


29-    Eggs   a  la  Paysanne. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  cream  into  a  dish,  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils, 
break  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  twelve 
whole  peppers  ;  let  cook  for  two  minutes,  and  then  set  it  in  the  oven 
for  three  minutes,  so  that  the  eggs  get  a  good  golden  color,  taking 
care  that  they  do  not  harden.  Remove  from  the  oven,  place  the  dish 
on  another,  and  serve. 


34 


30.  Eggs  k  la   Rige7ue. 

Shred  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  salt  pork  into  fine  pieces  (ham  will 
answer  the  same  purpose),  also  one  onion  cut  into  small  squares,  and 
six  medium-sized  mushrooms,  all  of  equal  size  ;  moisten  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  good  gravy,  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  When  done,  reduce 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  essence  (liquor).  Break  twelve 
fresh  eggs  in  a  dish,  with  an  ounce  of  melted  butter  on  the  bottom, 
and  set  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  five  minutes  ;  pour  the  garnishing 
over,  drip  off  the  fat,  wipe  the  sides  of  the  dish,  and  add  six  drops  of 
strong  tarragon-vinegar.  Remove  from  the  oven,  place  the  dish  on 
another,  and  serve. 


35 


3^-    ^S^^   with   Melted   Cheese. 

Grate  two  ounces  of  Parmesan  cheese  on  a  dish  ;  set  it  on  a  slow 
fire,  adding  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley,  a 
pinch  of  chopped  chives,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
grated  nutmeg,  also  two  ounces  of  good  butter.  Stir  thoroughly  while 
cooking,  and  as  the  cheese  melts,  break  in  twelve  eggs  ;  cook  for 
five  minutes  longer,  then  surround  the  dish  with  heart-shaped  crou- 
tons (No.  102)  set  it  on  another  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 


36 


32.    Eggs    en   Panade. 

Cut  out  twelve  round  pieces  of  bread-crumbs,  each  one  measur- 
ing two  inches  in  diameter,  and  place  them  in  a  pie-plate,  spreading  a 
little  butter  over  each  ;  brown  them  in  the  hot  oven  for  one  minute. 
Break  twelve  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  one  pinch  of  chopped  parsley,  half 
a  pinch  of  chives,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  one  ounce 
of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  very  little  white  pepper.  Beat  sharply 
all  together  for  four  minutes.  Add  the  twelve  pieces  of  browned 
bread  to  the  beaten  eggs  ;  mix  them  well  together.  Place  in  a  frying- 
pan  on  the  hot  range  one  ounce  of  clarified  butter,  heat  thoroughly, 
then  fry  one  egged  bread  at  a  time  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each 
side.  Dress,  with  the  aid  of  a  cake-turner  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  ;  keep  in  a  warm  place.  Repeat  the  same  process  with  the 
others,  and  serve. 


37 


33'  ^SS^  ^  ^^  Meyerbeer, 
Butter  a  silver  dish  and  break  into  it  twelve  fresh  eggs  ;  or,  if  de- 
sired, use  six  small  silver  dishes,  breaking  two  eggs  into  each  one  ; 
then  cook  them  on  the  stove  for  two  minutes.  Cut  six  mutton  kid- 
neys in  halves,  broil  or  stew  them  according  to  taste,  then  add  them 
to  the  eggs,  and  serve  with  half  a  pint  of  hot  Perigueux  sauce  (No. 
no)  thrown  over. 


38 


34-    Eggs  ^  ^^  Rezne, 

Prepare  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  33,  cook  them  for  two  minutes. 
Make  a  garnishing  of  one  ounce  of  cooked  chicken-breast,  one  finely 
shred,  medium-sized  truffle,  and  six  minced  mushrooms.  Moisten 
with  half  a  pint  of  good  Allemande  sauce  (No.  iii),  heat  it  up  well, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  then  pour  over  the  eggs  and  serve  immediately. 


39 


35-    ^iS^   ^  ^^   Turque. 

Cook  twelve  eggs  the  same  as  for  No.  '^i^  and  pour  over  them 
six  chicken  livers,  tossed  gently  but  rapidly  in  a  saucepan  on  a  brisk 
fire  with  one  ounce  of  butter  for  three  minutes,  and  then  with  a  spoon 
remove  all  the  butter  from  the  saucepan.  Season  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  adding  half  a  glass  of  good  Ma- 
deira wine.  Reduce  it  to  one  half,  then  add  one  gill  of  hot  Ma- 
deira sauce  (No.  103),  heat  up  a  little,  and  then  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  eggs  and  serve.  n 


40 


36.    Eggs   a   TImpdratrice. 

Cook  twelve  eggs  exactly  as  in  No.  T,2i->  arranging  six  small  slices 
of  pate-de-foie-gras,  one  on  top  of  each  ^%%^  and  serving  very  hot. 


Til*    Eggs   a   la    Suisse. 

Fry  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  33  ;  after  cooking  for  two  minutes, 
cover  with  half  a  pint  of  hot  tomato  sauce,  and  add  three  cooked 
sausages,  cut  in  two,  also  a  little  grated  cheese,  then  send  to  the 
table. 


41 


38.    Eggs  it   la    Chip 0 lata. 

Prepare  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  33,  and  cover  them  with  a  pint  of 
hot  Chipolata  garnishing  (No.  112),  and  serve  very  hot. 


39.    Eggs  a  rAlsacienne. 

Fry  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  33,  only  putting  them  on  a  long  dish. 
Add  one  chopped  onion  to  four  ounces  of  finely  minced  calf's  liver, 
quickly  toss  them  on  a  brisk  fire  for  about  eight  minutes,  then  pour  in 
about  six  to  eight  drops  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper 
to  season.     Garnish  both  ends  of  the  dish  with  this,  then  serve. 


4a 


40.   Eggs  a   FAurore, 

Boil  twelve  eggs  until  hard,  then  let  them  cool  ;  shell  them,  and 
separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites,  putting  the  former  into  a  mortar, 
adding  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  nut- 
meg, the  same  of  ground  spice,  and  three  raw  ^gg  yolks  ;  pound  all 
well  together.  Mince  the  whites,  and  put  them  in  a  sautoire  with  a 
pint  of  well  reduced  bechamel  (No.  io8),  cook  without  boiling,  al- 
though letting  them  attain  a  good  consistency  ;  place  them  on  the  dish 
used  for  serving,  lay  the  pounded  yolks  on  top,  and  garnish  with 
twelve  square  sippets  of  bread  dipped  in  beaten  tgg^  and  put  in  the 
oven  to  brown  for  about  four  minutes  ;  then  serve. 


43 


41.    Eggs  a   la   Polonaise. 

Cut  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves,  separate  the  whites  from 
the  yolks,  and  pound  the  latter  in  a  mortar,  adding  about  one  ounce 
of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  ground  spice,  a  saltspoonful 
of  grated  nutmeg,  and  five  raw  yolks  ;  when  well  blended,  without 
any  lumps,  strew  half  a  tablespoonful  of  very  fine  chopped  parsley 
over,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  well  beaten.  Garnish  the 
bottom  of  a  baking-dish  with  this  preparation,  laying  it  in  about  a 
finger  thick  ;  also  fill  the  whites  with  a  part  of  it,  making  them  have 
the  appearance  of  whole  eggs.  Arrange  them  tastefully  on  top,  and 
set  the  dish  in  the  oven  ;  brown  slightly  for  about  five  minutes,  re- 
move it  from  the  oven,  lay  the  dish  on  top  of  another,  wipe  the  sides 
carefully,  and  serve  immediately. 


42.    Eggs  a  la    Sauce   Robert. 

Peel  two  medium-sized  onions,  and  remove  the  hearts,  cut  them  in 
slices  (the  hearts),  and  put  them  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  on  a  brisk  fire,  and  brown  them  well.  Moisten  with  a  cupful 
of  lean  broth,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper, 
cook,  and  let  the  sauce  reduce  for  about  ten  minutes.  When  ready- 
to  serve,  cut  eight  hard-boiled  eggs  into  slices,  mix  them  in  the  prep- 
aration, and  let  heat  together  without  boiling  for  two  minutes  ;  finish 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  diluted  mustard,  and  then  serve. 


45 


43-  ^iS^  ^  ^^  Hyde, 
Boil  six  fresh  eggs  for  seven  minutes,  then  lay  them  in  cold 
water  for  five  minutes  to  cool  them  off ;  shell  them,  and  put 
them  on  a  plate.  Hash  fine  half  a  small  canful  of  mushrooms 
with  two  branches  of  parsley  and  one  medium-sized,  sound 
shallot.  Put  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  stove  one  ounce  of  good 
butter,  and  when  melted  add  the  prepared  mushrooms,  and  let  cook 
rather  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  it  occasionally.  Add  half  a 
pint  of  Madeira  sauce  (No.   103),  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 


46 


light  pinch  of  pepper,  then  cook  again  slowly  for  ten  minutes. 
Strain  the  whole  through  a  fine  sieve  into  another  saucepan, 
and  set  it  aside  to  keep  warm  ;  cut  the  six  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
halves,  remove  the  entire  yolks,  and  mash  them  thoroughly  in  a  bowl, 
adding  half  an  ounce  of  good,  fresh  butter  and  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
cream.  Season  with  alight  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  ;  mix  well  together,  and  with  this 
fill  the  twelve  pieces  of  egg-white.  Lay  them  on  a  lightly  buttered 
dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  for  eight  min- 
utes before  sending  to  the  table. 


47 


44-  Egg^   ^   ^^  Bennett, 

Cut  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  lengthwise,  remove  the  yolks,  and 
place  them  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  of  good  butter,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
anchovy  essence,  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  chives.  Beat  well  together, 
and  fill  the  whites  with  it,  besprinke  with  bread-crumbs,  and  pour 
over  a  few  drops  of  clarified  butter  ;  put  them  in  the  oven  for  three 
minutes  on  a  buttered  dish,  and  serve  with  half  a  pint  of  hot  Madeira 
sauce  (No.  103)  thrown  over. 


48 


45-    Egg^  ^  ^^  Duchesse. 

Place  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add- 
ing half  a  pint  of  water,  a  small  piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  short  stick 
of  cinnamon.  Boil  until  the  sugar  is  reduced  to  a  syrup,  then  re- 
move the  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon,  and  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
orange-flower  water.  Beat  together,  then  strain  twelve  Qgg  yolks  with 
a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  add  this  to  the  syrup  with  a  very  little  salt, 
then  transfer  the  whole  to  a  silver  baking-dish,  place  it  on  the  hot 
stove,  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  briskly,  and  when  it 
forms  a  cream,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  fine,  sound  lemon  ;  remove 
from  the  fire,  lay  the  dish  on  another,  and  send  to  the  table. 


49 


46.    Plain  Omelet, 

Crack  into  a  bowl  twelve  fresh  eggs,  season  them  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  beat  them  well  until  the  whites 
and  yolks  are  thoroughly  mixed,  or  for  fully  four  minutes.  Place  in 
a  No.  8  frying-pan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  clarified  butter  ;  heat  it  well 
on  the  hot  range,  and  when  it  crackles  pour  in  the  eggs,  and  with  a 
fork  stir  all  well  for  two  minutes,  then  let  rest  for  half  a  minute.  Fold 
up  with  the  fork — the  side  nearest  the  handle  first — to  the  centre  of 
the  omelet,  then  the  opposite  side,  so  that  both  sides  will  meet 
right  in  the  centre  ;  let  rest  for  half  a  minute  longer  ;  have  a  hot  dish 
in  the  left  hand,  take  hold  of  the  handle  of  the  pan  with  the  right, 
bring  both  dish  and  pan  to  a  triangular  shape,  and  with  a  rapid  move- 
ment turn  the  pan  right  over  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  send  to  the 


50 


table.  (The  omelet  should  be  made  on  a  very  brisk  range,  without 
taking  the  lid  off  the  stove.) 

Should  the  pan  be  smaller  than  the  above-mentioned  No.  8  it  will 
require  three  minutes'  stirring,  one  minute  to  rest,  and  half  a  minute 
to  rest  after  having  been  folded. 

When  making  an  omelet  for  one  person,  for  instance,  use  three 
fresh  eggs,  seasoned  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  in  a  small  frying-pan 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  clarified  butter  ;  after  sharply  beating  the  eggs 
in  the  bowl,  pour  into  the  pan,  and  gently  mix  for  one  minute  on  a 
very  brisk  range,  let  rest  for  a  quarter  of  a  minute,  fold  one  side  up, 
rest  a  quarter  of  a  minute  more,  then  turn  on  a  small  hot  dish,  and 
serve. 


51 


47-    Omelet  with  Fine   Herbs, 

Break  twelve  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  pinch  of  finely  chopped 
parsley,  half  a  pinch  of  chopped  tarragon,  and  half  a  pinch  of  chives; 
also,  if  desired,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream.  Beat  the  whole  thor- 
oughly without  stopping  for  four  minutes  ;  melt  one  ounce  of  good 
butter  in  a  frying-pan  on  the  hot  stove  ;  when  it  is  melted  and  be- 
gins to  crackle,  pour  in  the  eggs,  and  mix  them  gently  with  a  fork, 
while  they  cook  for  three  minutes  :  let  them  rest  for  one  minute,  then 
bring  the  sides  toward  the  centre,  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 


52 


48.    Oyster    Omelet, 

Blanch  eighteen  oysters  to  boiling  point  in  their  own  water  ;  drain, 
and  return  them  to  the  saucepan,  moistening  with  half  a  pint  of  good 
Allemande  (No,  in);  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt.  Make  a 
plain  omelet  with  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  46,  bring  the  sides  toward 
the  centre,  and  fill  it  with  the  oyster  preparation.  Turn  it  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  the  rest  of  the  sauce  around,  and  serve  very  hot. 


53 


49-    Crawfish    Omelet, 

Stew  twelve  crawfish  tails  in  a  sautoire  on  the  hot  stove  with  half 
an  ounce  of  butter,  letting  them  cook  for  five  minutes.  Break  twelve 
eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  and  a  pinch  of 
finely  chopped  parsley  ;  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch 
of  pepper,  then  sharply  beat  for  four  minutes.  Make  an  omelet  as  in 
No.  46,  fold  up  the  side  opposite  the  handle  of  the  pan,  place  the 
crawfish  right  in  the  centre,  fold  up  the  other  side,  turn  it  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve. 


54 


50.  Lobster    Omelet, 

Take  six  ounces  of  boiled  lobster  meat,  and  cut  it  into  small 
pieces;  put  them  into  a  sautoire  with  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine 
and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter.  Moisten  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  strong,  hot  bechamel  (No.  io8),  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes. 
Make  an  omelet  of  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  46,  and  with  a  skimmer 
place  the  stewed  lobster  in  the  middle,  fold  the  opposite  side,  pour  in 
the  garnishing,  fold  the  other  side  up,  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  around  it,  and  serve 


55 


\ 


51.    Tomato   Omelet, 

Break  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  season  them  with  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  beat  thoroughly  for  four  minutes. 
Place  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  on  a  hot  stove,  let  it  heat 
well  without  browning,  then  pour  into  it  half  a  pint  of  freshly  cooked 
stewed  tomatoes,  suppressing  all  the  liquid.  Cook  for  two  minutes, 
then  throw  the  beaten  eggs  over,  and  with  a  fork  mix  the  whole  gent- 
ly for  three  minutes;  let  rest  for  one  minute  longer.  Bring  up  the 
two  opposite  sides,  turn  it  carefully  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 


56 


\ 


52.    Tomato  Omelet  a  la  Provenpale. 


Peel  a  medium-sized,  sound  onion,  then  chop  it  fine  ;  place  it  in 
a  sautoire  on  the  hot  stove  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  let  get  a 
good  golden  color,  adding  half  a  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  or  two 
good-sized,  peeled  raw  tomatoes  cut  into  small  slices,  a  crushed 
clove  of  garlic,  and  season  (should  the  tomatoes  be  fresh)  with  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley;  let  the  whole  cook  together  for  ten  minutes;  then  proceed  as 
for  the  tomato  omelet  (No.  51). 


5^ 


53-    Asparagus-top  Omelet. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  bunch  of  boiled  asparagus-tops  into  a  bowl,  pour 
twelve  beaten  eggs  over,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch 
of  pepper,  mix  lightly  again,  and  make  an  omelet  exactly  as  for  No. 
46. 


54.    Omelet,  with   Green  Peas. 

Break  twelve  eggs  into  a  bowl,  adding  half  a  pint  of  boiled  green 
peas,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  beat  well  for  four  minutes,  and 
make  into  an  omelet  as  for  No.  46. 


58 


55-    Omelet  au    Clpes, 

Fry  six  cepes,  cut  into  small  pieces,  in  half  an  ounce  of  butter  for 
two  minutes.  Beat  twelve  eggs  in  a  bowl,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  pour  them  over  the  cepes,  and  make  an 
omelet  as  for  No.  46. 


56.    Smoked  Beef  Omelet. 

Fry  two  ounces  of  finely  minced,  smoked  beef  in  a  frying-pan,  with 
half  an  ounce  of  butter,  add  twelve  well-beaten  eggs,  and  make  an 
omelet  as  for  No.  46. 


59 


5  7-    Ham   Omelet, 

Cut  about  two  ounces  of  lean  ham  into  small,  square  pieces,  fry 
them  for  two  minutes  with  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and 
throw  over  twelve  well-beaten  eggs  ;  with  this  make  an  omelet  as  for 
No  46. 


58.   Crab    Omelet. 

Proceed  exactly  the  same  as  for  No.  50,  substituting  six  ounces  of 
crab  meat  cut  into  small  pieces,  for  the  lobster. 


60 


59'    Kidney    Omelet, 

Stew  on  the  hot  stove  three  minced  kidneys,  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  Madeira  wine  sauce  (No.  103),  let  cook  for  three  minutes. 
Make  a  plain*  omelet  with  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  46,  fold  the  oppo- 
posite  side  up,  put  the  kidneys  in  the  centre,  fold  the  other  side  up, 
and  turn  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  around  ;  then  serve. 

60.    Chicken  Liver  Omelet. 

The  same  as  for  the  above  (No.  59),  substituting  six  minced 
chicken  livers  for  the  kidneys. 


61 


6 1 .    Sausage    Omelet, 

Skin  three  raw  sausages,  then  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  butter  ;  set  it  on  the  hot  fire  for  five  minutes,  and 
stir  well  until  they  cook.  Make  a  plain  omelet  with  twelve  eggs,  as 
for  No.  46,  fold  the  opposite  side,  lay  the  sausages  in  the  centre,  fold 
the  other  side  up,  and  serve  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  hot  Madeira 
sauce  (No.  103),  poured  around  the  omelet. 


62 


62.  Omelet   Bonne    Femme, 

Cut  one  ounce  of  salt  pork  into  small  square  pieces,  also  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  crust  from  off  a  fresh  loaf  of  bread  cut  the  same  way; 
fry  them  together  in  a  frying-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter  for  about 
two  minutes,  adding  a  boiled  potato  cut  into  small  squares,  a  pinch 
of  chopped  parsley,  half  a  pinch  of  chopped  chives,  half  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  the  same  quantity  of  pepper.  Beat  twelve  eggs  for  four 
minutes  in  a  bowl,  pour  them  into  the  pan,  and  make  an  omelet  as  for 
No.  46;  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 


63 


63.   Omelet  Raspail. 

Chop  one  raw  onion  ver)'  fine,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  an 
ounce  of  butter.  Take  one  ounce  of  small  squares  of  salt  pork,  cook 
them  slightly,  adding  an  ounce  of  scraps  of  very  finely  minced,  cooked 
roast  beef,  the  same  of  ham,  two  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  and  a 
pinch  of  chopped  parsley.  Stir  in  well  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato 
sauce  and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  bread  crumbs  ;  season  with 
a  pinch  of  pepper  and  third  of  a  pinch  of  salt.  Make  a  plain  om- 
elet with  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  46,  fold  up  the  opposite  side,  fill  it 
with  the  preparation,  fold  the  other  side  up,  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve. 


64.  Sardine  Omelet, 

Thoroughly  skin  eight  fine  sardines,  place  six  of  them  in  a  frying- 
pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  cook  for  two  minutes.  Beat  well  twelve 
eggs  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  add  them  to  the  sardines  in  the  pan;  make  an  omelet  as  in 
No.  46,  fold  the  opposite  end  up,  place  the  two  remaining  sardines 
right  in  the  centre,  fold  the  other  end  up,  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
send  to  the  table. 


65 


65.  Cheese  Omelet, 

Put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  heat  it  on  the  hot  stove. 
Break  twelve  eggs  into  a  bowl,  beat  them  thoroughly  for  four  minutes, 
adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Swiss  cheese,  half  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Pour  the  whole  into  the  frying-pan,  and 
make  an  omelet  as  for  No.  46;  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  besprinkle 
the  top  lightly  with  a  very  little  Parmesan  cheese;  place  in  the  oven 
for  two  seconds,  then  serve. 


66 


66.  Omelet  Rigence, 

Make  an  omelet  with  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  46,  and  when  nearly 
cooked,  fold  up  the  opposite  side,  then  fill  the  centre  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  hot  Regence  garnishing  (No.  30),  fold  the  other  side  up; 
turn  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  around,  and  serve  hot. 


67 


67.  Omelet  a  la  Vanderbilt, 

Take  two  fine,  sound,  green  peppers,  plunge  them  into  hot  fat  for 

half  a  minute,  then  take  them  up  and  lay  them  on  a  dry  cloth;  skin 

them  neatly,  remove  all  the  seeds  from  the  insides,  and  when  emptied 

cut  them  into  small   slices.     Put  these   into  a  saucepan  on  the  hot 

stove  with  two  medium-sized  fresh,  sound,   sliced  tomatoes,  twelve 

nicely  shelled  shrimps,  and  three  tablespoonfuls   of   Madeira  wine 

sauce  (No.  103),  then  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  third  of  a 

pinch  of  pepper;  cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.     Break  twelve  fresh 

eggs  into  a  bowl,  season  them  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  third  of 

a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  beat  well  for  five  minutes.     Put  two  ounces  of 

good  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  place  it  on  the  hot  stove,  and  when  the 

butter  is  melted  drop  in  the  eggs,  and  with  a  spoon  or  fork  mix  briskly 

for  two  minutes.     Fold  the  opposite  side  up  with  a  skimmer,  lift  up 

the  thick  part  of  the  prepared  sauce,  and  place  it  in  the  centre  of  the 

omelet,  fold  the  other  side  either  with  a  knife  or  fork,  and  let  it  cook 

for  two  minutes  longer,  then  turn  on  a  hot  dish;  pour  the  rest  of  the 

sauce  in  the  saucepan  around  the  omelet,  and  send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

68 


68.  Omelet  a  t Espagnole. 

Put  in  a  stewpan  on  the  stove  one  finely  shred  onion,  one  ounce  of 
butter,  a  chopped  green  pepper;  six  minced  mushrooms,  and  one 
large,  finely  cut-up  tomato;  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  pepper  and 
one  pinch  of  salt,  adding  a  spoonful  of  tomato  sauce  ;  let  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Make  a  plain  omelet  with  twelve  eggs,  as  for 
No.  46,  fold  the  opposite  side,  and  put  more  than  half  of  the  stew 
inside  of  it,  say  three-quarters;  fold  the  other  side  up,  and  turn  it  on 
a  long  dish,  then  pour  the  rest  of  the  sauce  around,  and  serve. 


69 


69.   Omelet  Mexicaine, 

Have  a  pint  of  veloute  sauce  (No.  115)  in  a  saucepan,  place  it  on 
a  moderate  fire,  add  a  piece  of  lobster  butter  (No.  116)  about  the  size 
of  an  ^gg^  twenty-four  shelled  and  cooked  shrimps,  and  season  with 
half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  very  little  pepper.  Let  cook  for  three 
minutes,  stirring  it  lightly,  then  add  half  of  a  good-sized,  empty  and 
peeled  green  pepper,  finely  hashed;  cook  for  two  minutes  longer,  then 
let  rest  on  the  corner  of  the  stove.  Make  an  omelet  with  twelve  eggs, 
as  for  No.  46,  fold  up  the  opposite  side,  pour  half  of  the  preparation 
in  the  centre,  fold  the  other  end  up,  turn  the  omelet  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  garnish  bpth  sides  with  the  rest  of  the  shrimps,  pouring  the  bal- 
ance around  the  dish:  then  send  to  the  table. 


70 


70.  Sweet  Omelet, 

Beat  and  sweeten  with  one  ounce  of  sugar  twelve  eggs;  make  an 
omelet  as  for  No.  46,  using  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter;  turn  it  on  a 
dish,  and  dredge  another  ounce  of  sugar  over,  then  glaze  it  with  a 
hot  shovel  or  salamander,  and  serve  very  warm. 


71 


71.  Omelet  Soufflde^for  Six  Persons. 

Have  a  deep,  cold,  silver  dish  ready,  fifteen  inches  long  by  eleven 
wide.  Put  into  a  vessel  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Break 
twelve  fresh  eggs,  drop  the  whites  into  a  copper  basin,  and  the  yolks 
of  five  into  the  vessel  containing  the  sugar,  reserving  the  other  seven 
yolks  for  other  purposes.  Add  to  the  vessel  containing  the  sugar  and 
yolks  a  light  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  essence:  now  with  the  wooden 
spatula,  begin  to  beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  as  briskly  as  you  possi- 
bly can  for  fifteen  minutes.  Lay  it  aside.  Then  with  the  aid  of  a 
pastry  wire-whip,  beat  up  to  a  very  stiff  froth  the  twelve  ^%%  whites  in 
the  copper  basin,  which  will  take  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  Re- 
move the  pastry  wire-whip;  take  a  skimmer  in  the  right  hand,  and  with 
the  left  take  hold  of  the  vessel  containing  the  preparation  of  the  yolks 
and  sugar.     Gradually  pour  it  over  the  whites,  and  with  the  skimmer 


72 


gently  mix  the  whole  together  for  two  minutes.  The  preparation  will 
now  be  of  a  light,  firm  consistency.  Now,  with  the  aid  again  of  the 
skimmer,  take  up  the  preparation  and  drop  it  down  in  the  centre  of 
the  cold  dish,  ready  as  above  mentioned,  taking  special  caas  to  pile  it 
as  high  as  possible,  so  as  to  have  it  of  a  perfect  dome-shape;  a  few 
incisions  can  be  made  all  around,  according  to  taste;  immediately 
place  it  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  it  out 
of  the  oven,  and,  in  order  to  avoid  burning  or  soiling  the  table-cloth, 
lay  the  dish  containing  the  omelet  on  another  cold  one,  liberally  sprin- 
kle powdered  sugar  over  it,  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

N.  B. — Special  care  should  be  taken  when  piling  the  preparation 
into  the  cold,  silver  dish:  and  the  making  of  the  incisions  should  be 
done  as  rapidly  as  possible,  so  that  success  will  be  certain.  When 
desired,  the  vanilla  essence  can  be  substituted  with  the  same  quantity 
of  orange-flower  water. 


73 


72.  Omelet  au  Kirschy  or  Rum, 

Make  a  sweet  omelet  with  twelve  eggs  as  for  No.  70;  when  com- 
pleted and  glazed,  throw  around  it  a  glassful  of  kirsch,  and  set  the 
omelet  on  fire;  serve  it  while  burning.  Rum  omelet  is  prepared  ex- 
actly the  same  way,  substituting  rum  for  kirsch. 


74 


']2i.  Omelet  dies  tine. 

Pulverize  six  macaroons,  put  them  in  a  bowl,  adding  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  apple  jelly  and  one  spoonful  of  whipped  cream;  mix 
well  with  the  spatula.  Make  a  sweet  omelet  as  for  No.  70,  with  twelve 
eggs;  fold  the  opposite  side  up,  pour  the  mixture  into  the  centre, 
fold  the  other  end  up,  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  sprinkle  the  top 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar;  glaze  the  omelet  with 
a  hot  shovel  or  salamander,  and  decorate  it  with  three  lady-fingers 
cut  in  two,  also  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream,  the  latter  poured  into 
a  paper- funnel,  and  piped  over  in  any  design  the  fancy  may  dictate. 


75 


74-   Eggs  a  la   W,  B.  Kendall, 

Have  six  medium-sized,  thoroughly  ripe,  red  and  sound  tomatoes, 
wash  and  dry  them;  cut  away  a  piece  an  inch  in  diameter  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  tomatoes,  including  the  stems;  remove  the  seed  with  a 
vegetable  scoop.  Lightly  butter  a  little  sautoire,  then  gently  lay  the 
tomatoes  in  the  pan,  the  cut  part  upward,  mix  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt  with  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  with  it  equally  season  the  inside 
of  the  tomatoes;  sprinkle  their  surface  with  a  little  clarified  butter, 
then  place  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  three  minutes.  Remove  them  from 
the  oven,  place  the  sautoire  on  a  table,  then  crack  one  fresh  ^gg  into 
each  tomato,  place  them  in  the  oven  again  for  two  minutes,  remove 


them.  Arrange  six  fried  bread  crofitons  on  a  hot  dish,  then  with  the 
cake-turner  take  the  tomatoes  one  by  one  and  lay  them  over  each 
crouton.  Chop  up  very  fine  one  sound  peeled  shallot,  one  green  pep- 
per, and  half  a  clove  of  sound  garlic,  place  these  in  a  sautoire  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  clarified  butter,  range  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the 
hot  stove,  and  slowly  simmer  for  four  minutes,  then  add  a  gill  of  tomato 
sauce,  and  one  drop  of  tabasco  sauce;  cook  for  three  minutes.  Strain 
the  same  through  a  sieve  into  a  hot  bowl,  sharply  pressing  the  pep- 
pers with  a  wooden  spoon.  Pour  the  sauce  now  around  the  toma- 
toes, but  not  on  top  of  them,  and  send  to  the  table. 


77 


75-  ^SS^  Mo  let. 

Take  six  fresh  eggs,  drop  them  all  at  the  same  time  with  a  skim- 
mer or  a  spoon  into  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes  and  a 
half,  but  no  longer;  lift  them  up,  and  immediately  drop  them  into 
cold  water  for  two  minutes,  then  take  them  up  carefully;  peel  them 
— seeing  that  the  white  is  intact — then  keep  them  in  a  little  warm 
consomme  or  water.  Have  a'  quart  of  hot  puree  of  chestnuts  (No. 
117),  place  it  in  a  pastry-bag,  in  which  you  previously  slide  down  a 
fancy  tube,  then  nicely  decorate  the  border  of  a  silver  dish,  large 
enough  to  hold  the  six  eggs,  also  a  little  at  the  bottom  to  lay 
the  eggs  over.  Place  the  dish  in  the  hot  oven  for  two  minutes, 
then  pour  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  a  gill  of  demi-glace  sauce  (No. 
103);  gently  lay  the  eggs  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  serve. 

The  above  eggs  can  be  served  in  various  ways — with  chicory  gar- 
nishing, spinach,  sorrel,  Spanish  sauce,  plain,  etc. 

78 


76.  Eggs  a  la  Villeroi. 
Take  three  fresh,  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  each  one  into  half,  length- 
wise, remove  the  yolks,  and  chop  up  the  latter  very  fine,  leaving  the 
whites  on  a  plate  for  further  action.  Chop  up  very  fine  one  medium- 
sized  sound  truffle,  one  ounce  of  cooked  smoked  beef  tongue— the  red 
part  by  preference.  Place  these  in  a  sautoire  with  a  tablespoon ful  of 
Madeira  wine,  reduce  on  the  hot  range  until  almost  dry,  then  add  the 
chopped-up  yolks,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  poulette  sauce  (No.  ii8). 
Season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  mix 
all  well  together.  Then  stuff  the  six  half  ^gg  whites  with  the  prepara- 
tion evenly  divided,  and  giving  them  an  oval  shape.  Have  a  gill  of 
poulette  sauce  (No.  ii8),  then  with  a  fork  steep  each  ^%g  in  it,  so  as 
to  completely  cover  them  with  the  sauce.  Place  them  on  a  dish  and 
let  cool  off.  Beat  up  an  ^gg  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoonfuls  cold 
milk,  gently  roll  the  eggs  in  it,  then  roll  them  in  fresh  bread-crumbs. 
Fry  them  in  very  hot  fat  for  five  minutes.  Take  them  up  with  a  skim- 
mer, dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  a  gill  of 
cream  sauce  (No.  119)  in  a  bowl  separate. 

79 


"j^.  Eggs  a  la  Buckley. 

Take  six  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  them  in  halves  crosswise,  take  out 
the  yolks,  place  them  in  a  bowl,  then  with  a  spoon  mash  them  with  an 
ounce  of  good  butter,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  freshly  chopped  chives,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  milk,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  very  fresh  bread-crumbs.  Mix  the  whole  well 
together  with  a  spoon,  then  with  the  preparation  fill  the  hollow  space 
of  the  twelve  half  eggs  just  even  up  to  the  surface.  Close  them  to- 
gether so  as  to  give  them  their  original  shape.  Then  carefully  press 
a  skewer  through  one  ^gg,  right  in  the  centre  lengthwise,  then  another, 
so  as  to  have  two  on  each  skewer,  repeat  the  same  with  the  other  four. 


80 


Lay  them  in  a  sautoire  with  a  gill  of  white  broth  (No.  loi).  Cover  the 
sautoire  with  either  a  copper  or  tin  cover,  and  place  in  the  oven  for 
five  minutes.  Remove  them;  have  a  hot  dish  ready  with  three  canapes. 
Arrange  the  skewers  over  each  canape,  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce: 

Cut  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces  four  mushrooms,  one  good-sized 
sound  truffle,  and  one  ounce  of  cooked  chicken  breast;  place  these  in 
a  sautoire  with  half  a  wine-glassful  of  white  wine.  Reduce  it  on  the 
range  for  three  minutes,  or  until  almost  dry,  then  add  a  gill  of  poulette 
sauce  (No.  ii8).  Continually  stir  until  very  hot,  but  do  not  allow  it 
to  boil.  Now  pour  the  sauce  around  the  eggs  on  the  canapes,  but  not 
over  them,  then  serve. 


8i 


"jS.  Eggs  a  la  yay  Gould. 

Prepare  in  a  sautoire  two  ounces  of  good  butter,  half  a  gill  of 
Allemande  sauce  (No.  m),  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  one  tablespoonful  of  white  broth  (No.  loi).  Place  on  the 
hot  range  and  stir  until  the  cheese  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  place 
the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range  to  keep  warm.  Take  six  hard 
boiled  shelled  eggs.  Cut  each  one  into  four  even  slices  crosswise, 
season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonf ul  of  pepper  equally 
divided.  Lightly  butter  a  silver  dish.  Arrange  a  very  thin  layer  of 
the  above  garnishing  over  it.  Take  the  sliced  eggs  and  lay  one  slice 
on  the  dish,  then  a  very  small  thin  slice  of  Swiss  cheese — then  again 


82 


a  slice  of  egg  and  a  slice  of  cheese — always  keeping  them  one  over- 
lapping another,  both  eggs  and  cheese;  continue  the  same  with  the 
rest,  giving  a  crown  shape  around  the  dish. 

Pour  half  a  gill  of  hot  tomato  sauce  on  top  of  both  eggs  and 
cheese,  equally  divided.  Now  pour  the  balance  of  the  garnish- 
ing over  all,  also  equally  divided;  lightly  sprinkle  the  top  with  a  very 
little  clarified  butter,  and  then  place  in  a  brisk  oven  for  eight  minutes, 
so  that  it  should  get  a  good  brown  color.  Remove  from  out  the  oven 
and  serve  immediately. 


83 


79-  Egg^  ^  l^   W,  M.  Evarts. 

Have  six  hard  boiled  shelled  eggs,  carefully  cut  away  the  third 
part  of  each  t%g  on  the  surface.  Remove  the  yolks  without  breaking 
the  whites,  leave  the  whites  on  a  plate  until  further  action :  thorough- 
ly mash  the  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  a  spoon;  add  ateaspoonful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  a  tablespoonful  of  Allemande  sauce  (No.  in),  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  Anchovy  sauce.  Season  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Knead  all  well  together,  then 
fill  the  inside  of  the  eggs  with  the  preparation,  and  giving  them  an 
oval  shape  a  quarter  of  an  inch  over  the  surface.  Cut  three  of  the  six 
pieces  into  small  strips  lengthwise,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  gently 


84 


lay  one  strip  over  each  egg  crosswise — right  in  the  centre,  so  that, 
when  completed,  they  will  represent  small  fancy  baskets.  Neatly 
decorate  their  surface  with  a  little  cooked  jardiniere;  arranged  in  this 
way  they  will  represent  perfect  baskets  of  abundance.  Arrange  a 
small  layer  of  the  preparation  for  each  egg  on  a  silver  dish  just  wide 
enough  to  hold  each  one  firmly.  Place  the  eggs  now  on  top  of  each 
layer,  pour  a  gill  of  Colbert  sauce  (No.  120)  around  the  dish,  but 
none  over  the  eggs.  Cover  them  with  a  piece  of  well-buttered  paper, 
then  place  in  the  oven — rather  moderate — for  two  minutes.  Take 
from  out  the  oven  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 


85 


8o.   Eggs  a  la  Geo.  O.  Jones. 

Take  six  shelled  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  away  at  the  pointed  end  of 
each  tgg  a  piece  half  an  inch  thick,  and  at  the  other  end  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.  Remove  the  yolks  with  a  small  vegetable  scoop,  or 
with  a  pointed  knife,  mash  the  yolks  in  a  bowl  very  fine,  and  lay  them 
aside  for  further  action. 

Place  in  a  sautoire  half  an  ounce  of  good  butter,  add  one  sound 
shelled  finely  chopped  shallot,  place  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the 
range,  and  let  simmer,  but  do  not  let  get  brown,  add  then  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Bechamel  sauce  (No.  io8),  a  teaspoonful  of  freshly 
chopped  up  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  grated  horse-radish. 
Now  add  also  the  yolks,  season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  half  a 


86 


saltspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper;  mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  and  then  with  it  stuff  the  six  eggs,  so  as  to  give  them  the  exact 
shape  of  small  barrels. 

Lightly  butter  a  tin  pan,  carefully  lay  the  eggs  in  it,  the  stuffed 
part  uppermost,  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  right  in  the 
centre  of  the  stuffed  part  of  the  eggs.  Cover  them  with  a  piece  of 
buttered  paper,  place  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twelve  minutes. 
Carefully  remove  them  from  the  oven,  take  off  the  paper.  Have  a 
hot  dish  with  six  fried  bread  crotitons,  half  an  inch  high  by  one  and  a 
half  inches  in  diameter,  gently  place  an  egg  on  each  cro^iton;  pour  a 
gill  of  hot  demi-glace  (No.  103)  around  the  dish  (none  over  the  eggs) 
and  immediately  serve. 


87 


8i.  Eggs  a  la  A.  F.  Bowers, 
Peel  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine,  fresh,  sound  mushrooms,  wash 
them  thoroughly,  seeing  that  no  sand  remains  on;  lay  six  of  the  larg- 
est aside  (with  their  stem  cut  away)  for  further  action.  Place  in  a 
sautoire  one  ounce  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  place  this 
pan  on  the  corner  of  a  hot  range,  and  let  gently  cook  for  eight  min- 
utes, slightly  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add  now  the  mushrooms, 
season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
also  half  a  saltspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  squeezing  in  the  juice  of  a 
quarter  of  a  sound  lemon;  mix  all  well  together,  then  add  a  gill  of 
milk,  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  bowl,  and  keep  it  in  a  warm  place  until  fur- 
ther action. 


88 


Have  six  shelled  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  with  the  point  of  a  keen 
knife  make  eight  triangular  incisions  right  in  the  centre  of  each  egg 
down  to  the  yolk,  then  with  hands  gently  pull  them  apart.  Remove 
the  yolks,  and  mash  them  very  fine,  then  well  mix  the  latter  with  the 
preparation,  and  then  with  it  stuff  the  eggs,  giving  them  a  dome  shape. 
Lightly  butter  a  silver  dish,  place  a  thin  layer  of  the  preparation  over 
it.  Firmly  lay  the  six  large  mushrooms  upside  down  over  the  layer, 
place  half  a  teaspoonful  of  the  force  in  the  centre  of  each  mushroom, 
then  gently  lay  the  eggs  perpendicular  over  each  mushroom.  Slice  a 
small  truffle  into  six  thin  slices,  place  one  on  top  of  each  egg,  sprinkle 
a  little  clarified  butter  over  all,  cover  them  with  buttered  paper,  then 
place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  with 
a  gill  of  hot  demi-glace  (No.  103),  in  a  bowl  separate. 


89 


82.  Hggs  ii  la  Hamilton  Fish, 

Cut  up  into  very  small  dice  shaped  pieces,  one  medium  sized 
sound  truffle,  an  ounce  of  cooked  smoked  beef  tongue,  and  four 
mushrooms.  Place  them  in  a  sautoire  on  the  range,  with  half  a  glass 
of  Madeira  wine.  Reduce  the  wine  to  one  half,  add  now  a  gill  of 
Madeira  sauce  (No.  103),  and  a  drop  of  anchovy  sauce,  then  cook  for 
five  minutes. 

Take  six  shelled  hard  boiled*  eggs,  cut  them  into  halves  length- 
wise, remove  the  yolks,  chop  them  up  very  fine,  and  add  them  to  the 
sauce;  mix  all  well  together,  and  with  this  preparation  stuff  the  whites. 
Close  them  together,  place  them  in  a  lightly  buttered  sautoire,  pour 
into  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  broth  (No.  loi).    Cover  them  with 


90 


a  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  and  then  place  in  the  oven  for  eight 
minutes. 

Have  a  hot  dish,  arrange  six  fried  bread  croutons  over  it.  Take 
the  eggs  from  out  the  oven,  and  place  one  on  each  crouton. 

Plunge  six  small  anchovies  into  hot  water,  take  them  up  and  dry 
well,  arrange  one  around  each  egg  in  the  centre,  so  as  to  represent  a 
ring. 

Cut  up  a  medium-sized  sound  truifle  into  twelve  small  slices,  trian- 
gular shape,  then  place  one  slice  on  top  of  the  egg  right  in  the  centre 
on  each  side  of  the  anchovy,. proceed  the  same  with  the  rest. 

Pour  a  gill  of  hot  Colbert  sauce  (No.  120),  in  the  centre  of  the 
dish,  but  not  over  the  eggs,  and  then  send  to  the  table. 


91 


^3-  ^Si^  ^  ^^  Darling, 
Provide  one  dozen  of  very  tender,  sound  celery  knots,  peel  and  thor- 
oughly wash  them  twice.  Cut  them  in  quarters,  then  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  quart  of  white  broth  (No.  loi),  a 
sprig  of  thyme,  three  cloves  and  twenty  whole  peppers,  place  the  pan  on 
the  hot  range  and  cook  for  sixty  minutes.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into 
another  saucepan,  seeing  that  everything  is  strained  except  the  cloves 
and  peppers.  Dilute  a  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  into  half  a  cup  of 
cold  milk,  and  gradually  add  it  to  the  puree,  sharply  stirring  mean- 
while. Cook  for  three  minutes  longer.  Have  six  shelled  hard  boiled 
eggs  ready,  then  place  the  puree  right  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  giv- 
ing it  a  dome  shape.  Gently  arrange  the  six  eggs  around  it,  leaning 
slightly  against  the  dome  as  a  support  to  the  column.  Lay  a  thin 
slice  of  truffle  in  the  centre  of  each,  then  pour  a  gill  of  hot  Madeira 
sauce  (No.  103),  around  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  eggs,  and  then 
serve. 

92 


84.  Eggs  a  la  Mme.  Morton. 

Carefully  crack  six  fresh  eggs  on  a  saucer;  heat  in  a  frying-pan 
on  the  hot  stove  one  tablespoonful  of  clarified  butter,  then  drop  in  one 
^gg  and  fry  for  two  minutes,  lift  it  up  with  a  palette  knife,  carefully 
lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  continue  the  same  with  the  other  five. 

Prepare  six  well  designed  round  bread  croutons  as  for  No.  102. 
Lay  a  very  thin  slice,  the  size  of  the  croQton,  of  pate-de-foie-gras  over 
each  crotiton,  and  then  with  a  round  paste  cutter,  two  inches  and  a 
half  in  diameter,  place  it  right  in  the  centre  of  each  tgg^  taking  special 
care  to  keep  the  yolks  exactly  in  the  centre,  so  as  to  cut  away  the 
white  of  each  tgg  evenly  from  all  around  each  yolk.  Place  one  ^gg 
on  top  of  each  crouton,  pour  a  gill  of  hot  Perigueux  sauce  (No.  no), 
around  the  eggs,  but  not  over  them,  and  serve. 


93 


85.  Eggs  a  la  Belmont. 

Place  in  a  sautoire  eight  well  washed  sound  mushrooms,  with  half 
an  ounce  of  butter,  on  the  hot  range,  squeezing  in  just  one  drop  of 
lemon  juice,  let  gently  simmer  for  three  minutes;  add  a  sound  finely 
sliced  up  truffle,  also  half  a  wine-glassful  of  Madeira  wine;  let  reduce 
to  one  half,  which  will  take  about  three  minutes,  add  then  a  gill  of 
Espagnole  sauce  (No.  105)  and  cook  for  three  minutes  longer. 

Prepare  twelve  small  pate-de-foie-gras  balls  the  size  of  a  Malaga 
grape,  gently  dip  them  in  beaten  ^gg^  then  in  fresh  bread-crumbs,  and 
then  fry  them  in  very  hot  fat  for  two  minutes,  or  until  they  obtain  a 
good  golden  color,  remove  them  with  a  skimmer,,  and  lay  them  on  a 


94 


napkin  to  drain.  Take  up  the  mushrooms  and  truffles  with  a  skimmer 
from  the  sauce,  arrange  them  in  two  clusters,  one  at  each  end  of  the 
dish,  as  well  as  the  twelve  croquettes,  also  in  clusters,  six  on  each  side 
of  the  dish. 

Poach  six  very  fresh  eggs  -exactly  as  in  No.  i.  Cut  out  from  an 
American  bread  six  round  croutons,  arrange  them  on  the  hot  dish  all 
around.  Plunge  into  hot  broth  or  consomme  six  artichoke  bottoms, 
take  them  up  and  place  one  on  each  crofiton.  Pour  the  sauce  right  in 
the  middle  of  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  eggs;  place  a  slice  of  truffle 
on  top  of  each  egg,  and  serve. 


95 


86.  Eggs  a  la  Mme.  Diaz. 

Have  three  large  sound  green  peppers,  plunge  them  into  very  hot 
fat  for  two  minutes,  take  them  out,  and  with  a  coarse  dry  towel  remove 
the  skin  of  each;  then  cut  each  pepper  into  half,  lengthwise,  remove 
the  seeds,  have  a  frying  pan  on  the  hot  range,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
either  sweet  oil  or  clarified  butter.  Cut  six  very  thin  slices  of  raw 
ham,  place  them  gently  in  the  pan,  add  the  peppers  also,  and  then 
gently  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Prepare  six  pieces  of  dry  toast,  dress 
them  on  a  hot  dish,  then  place  a  slice  of  ham  over  each  toast,  then 
half  a  pepper  over  the  ham. 

Fry  six  very  fresh  eggs  separately  in  clarified  butter  as  for  No. 
84,  and  then  gently  place  one  on  top  of  each  pepper,  and  send  to 
the  table 


96 


8;.   Eggs  'a  la  D.  B.  Hill. 

Carefully  open  (without  losing  any  of  their  juice)  into  a  bowl 
twelve  medium  sized  fresh  oysters;  place  them  in  a  sautoire  on  the 
hot  range,  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  skim  well,  then  strain  the  juice  into 
a  bowl,  and  keep  the  oysters  in  a  separate  bowl  for  further  action. 

Place  in  a  pan  one  tablespoonful  of  very  good  butter  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  mix  well  together  with  the  spatula,  then  place  it  on 
the  hot  range  and  let  slowly  simmer  for  five  minutes,  taking  care  not 
to  let  get  brown.  Add  now,  little  by  little,  the  juice  of  the  oysters, 
continually  stirring  meanwhile.  Season  with  ateaspoonful  of  pepper. 
(If  the  oysters  were  not  very  salted,  a  little  salt  can  be  added.)  Stir 
continually  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  then  let  slowly  cook  for  five 
minutes;  add  now  six  sliced  mushrooms  and  the  twelve  oysters. 

Lightly  butter  a  deep  silver  dish,  place  the  above  sauce  into  it, 
then  carefully  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs;  sprinkle  a  very  little  salt  over 
them,  sprinkle  also  the  top  with  a  very  little  clarified  butter.  Place 
them  in  the  hot  oven  for  two  minutes.  Remove  from  out  the  oven, 
decorate  the  dish  with  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons,  and  serve. 

97 


88.  Eggs  a  la   W.  W.  Ladd,  Jr. 

Provide  four  fine,  sound,  white  Kalamazoo  celery.  Cut  away  all 
the  green  leaves,  and  neatly  trim  it;  thoroughly  wash  twice  in  cold 
water,  so  that  no  sand  will  adhere  to  the  celery;  cut  the  three  celery, 
three  inches  long  from  the  root  part,  crosswise.  Place  three  pieces  in 
a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  white  broth  (No.  loi).  Season  with 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  four  whole  peppers,  two  cloves,  and  a 
sprig  of  thyme.  Cover  the  pan,  and  let  boil  on  the  range  for  thirty 
minutes.  Chop  up  very  fine  the  balance  of  the  celery,  then  place  it 
in  a  small  saucepan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  let  simmer  for  five  min- 
utes, add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  well  sifted  flour;  stir  well  together, 
and  cook  for  five  minutes  longer;  gradually  add  now  a  cup  of  either 
hot  or  cold  milk,  stirring  well  without  ceasing  while  adding  it,  and 
until  it  begins  to  boil;  season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a 
saltspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes  longer. 
Remove  it  from  the  range,  press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.     Well 

98 


butter  a  silver  dish  a  foot  and  a  quarter  in  length  by  three-quarters 
in  width.  Slide  a  tube  into  a  pastry  bag,  pour  the  celery  puree 
into  it,  and  carefully  press  it  down  two  inches  from  the  centre  of 
the  dish,  commencing  at  the  side  of  the  dish,  coming  down  two 
inches  and  a  half  to  the  right,  continuing  going  all  around  giving 
an  oval  shape;  make  another  oval  border  over  the  other.  Crack  six 
fresh  eggs  in  the  centre  inside  the  border,  then  place  the  dish  in  the 
hot  oven  for  five  minutes.  Take  up  the  celery  from  the  pan,  place  on 
a  dish,  then  split  each  one  in  two  from  the  cut  part  down  to  the  root 
only.  Remove  the  eggs  from  the  oven;  open  each  celery  triangular 
shape,  place  it  jointly  around  the  border  so  as  to  make  it  represent  a 
star.  Strain  the  broth  in  which  the  celery  was  cooked  into  a  hot  bowl, 
add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  freshly  chopped  parsley,  mix  a  little,  and 
then  pour  about  a  gill  of  it  around  the  celery,  but  not  over  the  eggs, 
and  serve  very  hot. 


99 


89.  Eggs  a  la  Cockrane. 

Take  two  sweet  Spanish  peppers,  one  ounce  of  cooked  smoked 
beef  tongue,  cut  them  with  a  tube  into  slices  the  size  of  a  cent,  place 
them  on  a  dish  with  six  mushroom  buttons  until  further  action.  Chop 
up  very  fine  one  sound  peeled  shallot,  and  put  in  a  sautoire  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  let  cook  for  two  minutes  on  the  hot  range. 
Chop  up  very  fine  the  remainder  of  the  tongue  and  Spanish  peppers, 
place  them  in  the  sautoire  with  the  shallot,  moisten  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  Madeira  wine,  let  simmer  for  one  minute,  then  add  half  a 
gill  of  tomato  sauce,  and  half  a  gill  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No. 
105).     Cook  for  two  minutes.     Add  now  the  peppers,  tongue,  and 


100 


mushrooms  (which  were  laid  on  a  dish)  and  let  boil  for  one  minute 
more.  Arrange  six  fried  bread  croutons  on  a  hot  dish.  Poach  six 
very  fresh  eggs  as  for  No.  i,  and  place  one  egg  on  each  crouton, 
then  with  a  larding  needle  take  up  one  mushroom  from  the  pan,  and 
lay  it  on  the  top  of  the  egg  right  in  the  centre,  then  take  up  a  piece  of 
pepper,  lay  it  on  the  right  of  the  mushroom,  lengthwise,  and  then  take 
up  a  piece  of  tongue,  and  place  it  on  the  left  of  the  mushrooms,  and 
continue  the  same  with  the  rest  of  the  eggs.  Pour  the  remaining 
sauce  around  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  eggs,  and  immediately  send 
to  the  table. 


90.  Eggs  a  la  Lloyd  Aspinwall. 

Take  out  from  a  can  six  large  cepes,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  with 
a  tube  two  inches  in  diameter,  cut  them  perfectly  round;  place  them 
in  a  sautoire  on  the  range,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  clarified  butter  and 
a  finely  chopped  sound  shallot;  let  cook  for  three  minutes  on  a  brisk 
fire,  tossing  well  once  in  a  while.  Season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  adding  the  third  of  a  clove  of  garlic  finely 
chopped  up;  toss  all  well  for  one  minute  longer,  and  then  lay  the  pan 
on  the  corner  of  the  range.  Have  a  deep  silver  dish  lightly  buttered; 
take  up  the  six  cepes  from  the  pan,  arrange  them  nicely  around  the 
dish,  place  the  dish  at  the  oven  door  to  keep  warm. 


I02 


Chop  up  very  fine  the  remaining  trimming  of  the  cepes,  place  them 
in  the  same  pan  in  which  the  cepes  were  cooked,  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  freshly  chopped  parsley,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  medium 
sized  sound  lemon,  and  a  gill  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  105),  and  let 
the  whole  boil  for  one  minute;  pour  the  sauce  all  around  the  cepes, 
but  not  over  them.  Crack  a  fresh  egg  over  each  cepe,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  yolk,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  each  egg,  place  them 
in  the  hot  oven  for  two  minutes;  remove  them  from  out  the  oven,  and 
immediately  send  to  the  table. 


103 


91.  Omelet  Crime  de   Vanille  a  la  R.  A.  C.  Smith. 

Pour  into  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  range  two  gills  of  fresh  milk,  add 
to  it  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  also  one  vanilla  bean,  let 
come  to  a  boil,  take  the  pan  from  off  the  range,  and  let  cool  off.  Re- 
move the  vanilla  bean,  dry  it  with  a  napkin,  place  it  in  a  glass  bottle 
with  powdered  sugar,  cork  it  tightly,  and  use  whenever  necessary,  as 
it  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time.  Add  to  the  milk  three  heaped 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour — which  can  be  had  at  Park  &  Til  ford's — 
and  with  a  wire  whip  thoroughly  beat  together,  place  the  pan  on  the 
hot  range,  and  continually  stir  until  it  boils,  then  place  the  pan  on  the 
corner  of  the  range,  and  let  cook  slowly  for  twelve  minutes;  strain  it 


104 


through  a  very  fine  hair  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of 
fresh  butter,  mix  it  thoroughly,  and  then  leave  it  in  a  warm  place  for 
further  action. 

Make  an  omelet  exactly  as  for  No.  46^  and  just  before  folding 
the  sides  up  place  half  of  the  preparation  right  in  the  centre,  fold  up, 
and  gently  turn  it  on  a  hot  silver  dish;  place  the  rest  of  the  prepara- 
tion in  a  pastry  bag,  in  which  you  previously  slide  down  a  small 
tube  at  the  bottom,  press  down,  make  a  small  rose  at  each  end  of 
the  omelet,  dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  the  omelet,  gently 
glaze  it  with  a  red  iron,  decorate  the  sides  with  any  kind  of  dry  cakes 
at  hand,  cut  in  triangular  shape,  and  send  to  the  table. 


105 


92.   Omelet  a  la  Clark. 

Make  preparation  exactly  the  same  as  for  No.  91,  only  substitut- 
ing half  a  wineglass  of  l^araschino  for  the  vanilla,  and  proceed  with 
the  rest  precisely  the  same. 

93.  Omelet  Hughes. 

Have  a  preparation  made  the  same  as  in  No.  91,  but  using  a 
teaspoonful  of  extract  of  orange  flower,  in  place  of  the  vanilla,  pro- 
ceed and  serve  the  same. 


106 


94-  Omelet  a  la  E.  L.  Godkin. 

Cut  into  quarters  three  fine  sound  small  limes;  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  on  the  hot  range,  with  one  wineglassful  of  white  wine  (but 
not  Rhine  wine);  let  reduce  to  three  quarters — which  will  take  about 
six  minutes.  Place  a  clean  napkin  over  a  bowl;  pour  the  whole  over 
the  napkin;  fold  it  up  at  both  ends,  then  sharply  twist  the  ends  in 
different  directions,  until  the  juice  is  all  squeezed  into  the  bowl. 
Have  a  preparation  the  same  as  in  No.  91,  and  use  the  above  in- 
stead of  the  vanilla,  proceeding  with  the  rest  exactly  in  the  same  way. 


107 


95-  Omelet  a  la  M.  Ballon. 
Grind  two  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  roasted  coffee  (Java  and 
Mocha  by  preference).  Pour  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  range  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  fresh  milk,  adding  four  and  a  half  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  as  soon  as  the  milk  boils,  immediately  add  the-  coffee, 
thoroughly  mixing  with  a  spoon  meanwhile;  tightly  cover  the  pan  and 
place  it  on  the  corner  of  the  range  to  infuse  for  three  minutes,  taking 
special  care  not  to  let  it  boil  again.  Strain  it  through  a  fine  napkin 
into  another  saucepan,  and  let  it  cool  off;  add  then  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  rice  flour y  thoroughly  beat  it  with  a  whip,  place  it  on  the  fire, 
and  continually  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  place  the  pan  on 
the  corner  of  the  range  and  let  slowly  cook  for  twelve  minutes.  Make 
an  omelet  as  in  No.  46,  and  just  before  folding  it  up,  place  half  of 
the  preparation  right  in  the  centre,  fold  up,  turn  it  onto  a  hot  silver  dish; 
liberally  dredge  the  omelet  with  powdered  sugar,  glaze  the  surface 
with  a  red  iron.  Slide  down  a  small  tube  into  a  pastry-bag, 
pour  the  rest  of  the  preparation  in,  make  a  fancy  border  around  the 

omelet,  and  send  it  to  the  table. 

•  108 


96.  Eggs-Cocotte. 

Have  six  small  thoroughly  cleaned  cocotieres  ready.  Chop  up, 
very  fine,  one  medium-sized,  sound  peeled  shallot,  and  the  half  of  a 
sound  peeled  onion;  place  them  in  a  sautoire  on  the  range  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  cook  slowly  for  three  minutes,  taking  care 
not  to  let  get  brown.  Chop  up,  very  fine,  twenty-four  canned  mush- 
rooms, add  them  to  the  rest  with  one  tablespoonful  of  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  chervil  (if  at  hand);  season 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  mix  all  well 
together  with  the  spatula  for  a  second,  then  add  a  gill  of  Espagnole 
sauce  (No.  105),  and  let  all  cook  slowly  for  five  minutes. 

Pour  a  tablespoonful  of  the  sauce  into  each  cocotiere,  then  break 
a  fresh  ^gg  into  each  cocotiere,  pour  a  teaspoonful  of  the  sauce  over 
each  ^gg,  well  spread.  Place  the  cocotieres  on  a  tin  dish,  and  bake 
in  a  very  hot  oven  for  two  minutes.  Remove  from  out  the  oven,  lay 
them  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  send  to  the  table. 

109 


97-  Omelet  a  la  Mrs.  W.  L.  Brown. 

Place  in  a  pan  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  with  just  enough  milk  to 
dissolve  it  on  the  hot  range;  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  fresh  milk;  con- 
tinually stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Dilute  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
rice  flour  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  add  it  to  the  chocolate, 
stirring  briskly  meanwhile;  place  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range, 
and  let  gently  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil. 

Have  an  omelet  made  as  in  No.  46,  and,  before  folding,  place 
half  of  the  preparation  right  in  the  centre,  fold  up,  turn  it  over  a  hot 
silver  dish.     Place  the  balance  of  the  preparation  into  a  pastry-bag, 


no 


with  a  small  tube  previously  slided  down;  and  by  pressing  the 
•preparation,  make  a  nice  rosette  at  each  end  of  the  omelet.  Dec- 
orate the  dish  all  around  with  six  lady-fingers,  cut  in  triangular 
shaped  pieces  ;  carefully  press  a  little  of  the  contents  of  the  bag  on 
each  piece  of  lady-fingers,  so  as  to  have  them  represent  pretty,  small 
roses.  Liberally  dredge  them  with  powdered  sugar,  then  glaze  the 
omelet  with  a  red  iron,  and  then  send  to  the  table. 

N.  B. — All  these  sweet  omelets  should  always  be  promptly  made 
for  the  time  of  serving,  otherwise  it  would  be  sufficient  cause  to  fail 
to  have  them  to  perfection. 


98.  EggS'Cocotte  a  la   Wm,  Bracken. 

Prepare  and  proceed  exactly  the  same  as  No.  96,  only  substituting 
one  gill  of  hot  Allemande  sauce  (No.  iii)  for  the  gill  of  Espagnole 
sauce  (No.  105),  and  serve  the  same. 


112 


99-  Fried  Eggs  for  'Garnishing. 

Pour  half  a  gill  of  sweet  oil  into  the  frying-pan;  when  the  oil  is 
hot  break  in  one  Q%g,  carefully  closing  up  the  white  part  with  a  skim- 
mer, so  as  to  have  it  firm,  and  in  a  single  form.  Only  one  at  the 
time  should  be  cooked,  and  two  minutes  will  be  sufficient. 


"3 


loo.  Egg  Stuffed  a  la  Higgi?is, 

Prepare  in  a  sautoire  one  ounce  of  good  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  Swiss 
cheese,  place  the  sautoire  on  the  corner  of  the  range,  slowly  stir  with 
the  spatula  until  dissolved  and  well  mixed.  Cut  one  ounce  of  smok- 
ed beef  tongue  into  very  thin  julienne  shaped  pieces,  one  good  sized 
sound  truffle,  and  four  mushrooms  cut  the  same  way.  Add  now  half 
a  wine  glass  of  white  wine  (but  not  sweet)  to  the  cheese,  mix  the  wine 
and  cheese  well  together,  then  add  the  tongue,  truffle,  and  mushrooms. 

Cut  six  hard  shelled  boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise,  remove  the 
yolks  without  breaking  the  whites;  mash  the  yolks  and  place  in  the 
pan  with  the  rest  of  the  preparation,  mix  the  whole  well  together  for 
three  minutes  while  cooking. 


114 


Stuff  the  twelve  half  whites  with  the  preparation — up  to  the  level; 
then  close  them,  so  as  to  represent  six  original  eggs.  Have  a  silver 
dish,  lightly  buttered,  ready,  then  arrange  the  balance  of  the  stuffing 
right  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  giving  a  pyramid  shape;  place  the 
eggs  at  the  base  of  the  pyramid  upright,  so  they  will  lightly  lean 
against  it. 

Cover  the  whole  with  a  gill  of  very  thick  tomato  sauce  highly  sea- 
soned, sprinkle  a  very  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  all,  then 
place  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven  and 
serve  very  hot. 


"5 


APPENDIX. 


loi.  Bouillon  Blanc — white  broth. 

Place  in  a  large  stock-urn  on  a  moderate  fire  a  good  heavy  knuckle  of  a  fine 
white  veal  with  all  the  debris,  or  scraps  of  meat,  including  bones,  remaining  in 
the  kitchen  (but  not  of  game);  cover  fully  with  cold  water,  adding  a  handful  of 
salt;  and  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  be  very  careful  to  skim  all  the  scum  off — no 
particle  of  scum  should  be  left  on — and  then  put  in  two  large,  sound,  well- 
scraped  carrots  (whole),  one  whole,  cleaned,  sound  turnip,  one  whole,  peeled, 
large,  sound  onion,  one  well-cleaned  parsley  root,  three  thoroughly  washed  leeks, 
and  a  few  leaves  of  cleaned  celery.  Boil  very  slowly  for  six  hours  on  the  corner 
of  the  range;  keenly  skim  the  grease  off  ;  then  strain  well  through  a  wet  cloth 
into  a  china  bowl  or  a  stone  jar,  and  put  it  away  in  a  cool  place  for  general  use. 


1 02.   Croiltons  for  Soups, 


Cut  some  dice-shaped  pieces  of  bread,  and  fry  them  in  a  pan  with  clarified 
butter;  when  a  rich  golden  color,  drain,  and  add  to  the  soup  when  needed. 

103.  Sauce   Demi'Glace,  or  Madeira. 

Add  one  small  glassful  of  mushroom  liquor  to  one  pint  of  good  Espagnole 
sauce  (No.  105);  also  a  small  glassful  of  Madeira  wine,  a  bouquet  (No.  106), 
and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Remove  the  fat  carefully  and  cook  for  thirty 
minutes,  leaving  the  sauce  in  a  rather  liquid  state;  then  strain  and  use  when 
needed.     This  takes  the  place  of  all  Madeira  sauces. 

117 


104.  Batter  for  Fritters, 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  in  a  small  basin,  with  half  a  pint  of 
lukewarm  water,  to  which  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter  has  been 
added.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  which  should  be  tilted  on  the  range  so  that  when 
the  water  boils  the  butter  can  be  skimmed  off  the  top.  Add,  if  necessary,  a 
little  more  water  to  make  a  soft  paste,  beating  well  with  a  spatula,  to  keep  it 
free  from  lumps,  and  of  a  proper  consistence;  it  must  be  gray  and  compact- 
looking.  Add  just  a  little  warm  water  to  render  the  paste  soft  and  diluted,  al- 
though sufficiently  thick  to  cover  the  objects  for  which  it  is  intended;  that 
means,  it  must  drop  easily  from  the  spoon.  Add  to  this  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
two  egg-whites;  beat  well  together  for  one  minute,  and  use  at  once. 

105.  Sauce  Espagnole — -for  one  gall  on » 

Mix  one  pint  of  raw,  strong  mirepoix  (No.  107)  with  two  ounces  of  good 
fat  (chicken's  fat  is  preferable).  Mix  with  the  compound  four  ounces  of  flour, 
and  moisten  with  one  gallon  of  white  broth  (No.  loi).  Stir  well,  and  then  add, 
if  handy,  some  baked  veal  and  ham  bones.  Boil  for  three  hours,  and  then  re- 
move the  fat  very  carefully;  rub  the  sauce  through  a  very  fine  sieve,  and  keep 
it  for  many  purposes  in  cooking. 

106.  A  Bouquet — how  to  prepare. 

Take  four  branches  of  well-washed  parsley-stalks — if  the  branches  be  small, 
take  six — one  branch  of  soup-celery,  well  washed;  one  blade  of  bay-leaf,  one 
sprig  of  thyme,  and  two  cloves,  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  parsley,  so  as  to  prevent 
cloves,  thyme,  and  bay-leaf  from  dropping  out  of  the  bouquet  while  cooking; 
fold  it  well,  and  tightly  tie  with  a  string,  and  use  when  required  in  various  ways. 

118 


107.  Mirepoix, 

Stew  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  fat,  two  carrots,  one  onion,  one  sprig  of 
thyme,  one  bay-leaf,  six  whole  peppers,  three  cloves,  and,  if  handy,  a  ham 
bone  cut  into  pieces.  Add  two  sprigs  of  celery  and  half  a  bunch  of  parsley 
roots;  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  use  when  directed  in  other  recipes.  Scraps 
of  baked  veal  may  also  be  added,  if  at  hand. 

1 08 .  Bdchamel  Sauce. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
and  stir  constantly  for  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling 
milk,  being  careful  to  pour  it  in  gradually;  then  beat  it  well  with  a  whisk.  Add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  bouquet  (No.  106),  twelve 
whole  peppers,  and  a  little  mushroom  liquor,  if  at  hand.  Cook  well  for  fifteen 
minutes,  and  when  done  rub  through  a  fine  sieve. 

1 09 .    White-Roux, 

Put  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  place  it  on  the  corner  of  the 
hot  range,  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  keep  stirring  constantly  for  seven 
minutes.     Then  let  it  cool,  and  when  cold,  use  in  various  sauces  as  directed. 

1 10.  Sauce  Pirigueux. 

Chop  up  very  fine  two  fine  truffles;  place  them  in  a  sautoire  with  a  glassful 
of  Madeira  wine.  Reduce  on  the  hot  stove  for  five  minutes.  Add  half  a  pint  of 
Espagnole  sauce  (No.  105).     Just  allow  to  come  to  a  boil,  and  serve  very  hot. 

119 


III. 


Sauce   Allemande. 


Melt  two  ounces  of  butter' in  a  saucepan  on  a  slow  fire,  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  to  thicken.  Stir  well,  not  letting  it  brown;  then  moisten 
with  one  pint  of  white  broth  (No.  loi),  beating  constantly,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Dilute  three  egg-yolks  separately  in  a  bowl,  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  eggs,  a  very  little  at  a  time;  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer,  and  finish 
with  half  an  ounce  of  good  butter  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  taking  care 
that  it  does  not  boil  a  second  time. 

112.   Garnishing  h  la  Chipolata~f or  one  gallon. 

Fry  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  dice-shaped,  for  two  minutes  in 
a  saucepan;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  carrots  cut  tubular-shaped,  half  a  pint  of 
onions  browned  and  glazed  in  the  oven  (No.  113),  one  pint  of  blanched  and 
peeled  chestnuts,  half  a  pint  of  mushrooms,  and  six  small  sausages  cut  in 
pieces.  Add  two  quarts  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  105),  half  a  pint  of  tomato 
sauce  (No.  109),  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  large  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Cook  for  thirty  minutes,  and  use  when  needed. 

113.   Glazed  Onions  for   Garnishing. 

Select  one  quart  of  small  onions;  peel  the  sides  only,  and  pare  the  roots 
neatly,  being  careful  not  to  cut  them.  Place  them  in  a  sautoire  with  half  an 
ounce  of  clarified  butter,  and  sprinkle  them  with  half  a  pinch  of  powdered 
sugar.  Glaze  them  in  a  slow  oven  for  fifteen  minutes;  place  them  in  a  stone 
jar,  and  use  for  garnishing  when  required. 


114.  Eggs  a  la  Rtgence. 

Shred  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  salt  pork  into  fine  pieces  (ham  will  answer 
the  same  purpose),  also  one  onion  cut  into  small  squares,  and  six  medium-sized 
mushrooms,  all  of  equal  size;  moisten  with  a  spoonful  of  good  gravy,  and 
cook  for  five  minutes. 

115.  Sauce  Veloufi, 

Melt  one  ounce  of  good  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  stir  well,  not  letting  it  get  brown.  Moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  good  veal  and  chicken  stock,  the  stronger  the  better.  Throw  in  a  garnished 
bouquet  (No.  106),  half  a  cupful  of  mushroom  liquor,  if  at  hand,  six  whole  pep- 
pers, half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  continuously  with  a  wooden  spatula;  then  remove  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  skim  thoroughly  and  let  it  continue  simmering  slowly  for  one  hour. 
Then  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  This  sauce  will  make  the  foundation  for 
any  kind  of  good  white  stock. 

116.  Lobster  Butter. 

Extract  the  coral  from  one  cooked  lobster  (the  eggs  may  be  used  instead); 
pound  it  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste,  mixing  it  with  one  ounce  of  good  butter  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 
The  butter  can  abo  be  used  for  coloring  purposes. 

117.  Pur6e  of  Chestnuts. 

Boil  one  pound  of  chestnuts  for  ten  minutes ;  peel  and  skin  them  immediate- 
ly, put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  white  broth  (No.  loi),  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 
Let  all  boil  well  for  thirty  minutes;  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  use  when  needed. 

121 


II 8.  Sauce  a  la  Poulette. 

Put  one  pint  of  hot  Allemande  sauce  (No.  iii)  into  a  saucepan,  with  one 
ounce  of  fresh  butter;  adding  the  juice  of  half  a  medium-sized  lemon,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Heat  well  on  the  hot  stove  until  thoroughly 
melted  and  mixed,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Keep  the  sauce  warm,  and  serve  for 
all  sauce  poulettes. 

119.   Cream  Sauce. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  bechamel  sauce  (No.  loS);  add  half  an  ounce  of  butter, 
and  beat  them  together  carefully,  adding  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  crearn.  Then 
serve. 

120.  Sauce    Colbert. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  half  a  pint  of  very  thick  Madeira  sauce  (No.  103);  add 
to  it  very  gradually  one  ounce  of  good,  fresh  butter,  also  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  meat-glaze  (No.  121).  Mix  well  together  without  boiling;  then  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley 
when  serving. 

121.  Meat    Glaze. — Glace  de  Viande. 

As  this  meat  glaze,  when  properly  made,  will  keep  in  perfect  condition  for 
any  length  of  time,  I  would  advise  that  half  a  pint  be  made  at  a  time,  in  the 
following  manner:  Place  in  a  large  saucepan  ten  quarts  of  white  broth  (No. 
loi),  or  nine  quarts  of  consomm6,  and  reduce  it  on  a  moderate  fire  for  fully 
four  hours,  at  which  time  it  should  be  reduced  to  half  a  pint.  Transfer  it  in  a 
stone  jar  or  bowl;  put  a  cover  on,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  general  use. 

122 


There  are  over  fifteen  hundred  original  recipes,  besides 
over  a  thousand  menus,  in  '*The  Table,"  by  Filippini,  of 
Delmonico's.  There  are  also  special  departments  devoted  to 
the  following  subjects:  ''Our  Markets,  and  the  Varieties  of 
Food  to  be  Found  in  Them  in  the  Different  Months  of  the 
Year;"  ''How  to  Set  a  Table;"  "How  to  Serve  Meals;" 
"  How  to  Carve  ;  "  and  "  Table  Etiquette." 

Your  bookseller  will  supply  it  to  you  for  $2.50.  If  your 
bookseller  does  not  keep  it,  we  will  send  it  by  express,  pre- 
paid, to  any  address  on  receipt  of  $2.50. 


BOOKS  BY  A.  FILIPPINI 


"ONE   HUNDRED   RECIPES  FOR  COOK- 
ING AND  SERVING  FISH."      This  little  book 

contains  the  best  recipes  that  Mr.  Filippini  has  used  during  his  twenty- 
five  years'  experience  with  the  celebrated  house  of  Delmonico's.  It 
includes  recipes  for  preparing,  cooking,  and  serving  Salmon,  Trout, 
Halibut,  Soles,  Skates,  Shad,  Mackerel,  Eels,  Bluefish,  Sheepshead, 
Bass,  Cod,  Codfish-tongues,  Smelts,  Lobsters,  Crabs,  Oysters,  Clams, 
Terrapin,  Frogs,  Whitebait,  Sardines;  in  fact,  all  varieties  of  fish. 
The  book  is  very  tastefully  gotten  up,  one  recipe  being  printed  on 
each  page.  The  paper  is  supercalendered,  and  the  book  is  bound  in 
turned  cloth,  with  an  appropriate  design  in  colors,  with  gold  title. 
The  price  is  fifty  cents. 


**ONE   HUNDRED   WAYS    OF    COOKING 
EGGS."    Mr.  Filippini  is  probably  the  only  one  who 

can  cook  eggs  in  a  hundred  different  ways,  and  this  book  will  be 
worth  ten  times  its  price  to  any  purchaser.  Unlike  most  of  his  guild, 
who  jealously  guard  every  secret  of  their  craft,  Mr.  Filippini  has  at 
last  been  persuaded  to  admit  the  world  into  the  inner  sanctuary  of 
his  art,  to  describe  to  a  hand's  turn,  and  without  reserve,  exactly 
how  those  marvelous  triumphs  of  his  art  have  been  achieved.  Uni- 
form in  every  respect  with  **  One  Hundred  Recipes  for  Fish." 
Fifty  cents. 

"THE  TABLE/'     "How  to  Buy  Food,  How  to 

Cook  It,  and  How  to  Serve  It."  8vo,  505  pages.  Bound  in  oil-cloth, 
$2.50;  full  seal  Russia  (Presentation  Edition),  $4.50.  (See  adver- 
tisement on  next  page.) 


THE   TABLE: 

§ott)  to  Bug  JToolr,  j^ou)  to  €ook  3t,  anir  j^ou)  to  0ert)c  iFt. 

By  ALESSANDRO  FILIPPINI,  of  Delmonico's. 

For  Twenty-five  years  Mr.  Filippini  has  been  with  Delmonico,  and  until  recently  was 
Manager  of  the  branch  house  at  341  Broadway. 

365    BREA.K:FA.STS.  365    I^XJIVCHEOIV®. 

365    XHNNERS. 

134  Recipes  for  SOUPS ;   Nearly  100  SAUCES  ;    102  Ways  of  Cooking  EGGS ; 
40  SALADS;   Over  300  DESSERTS,  Etc.,  Etc. 


This  work  is  endorsed  by  the  Delmonicos.  Mr.  Filippini's  experience  in  Cul- 
inary Art  is  probably  greater  than  any  living  man's.  The  results  of  a  lifetime 
of  careful  study  are  here  embodied. 

It  is  infinitely  greater  than  a  mere  cook-book,  for  while  it  gives  many  more 
recipes  than  any  other  work  of  the  kind  ever  published,  at  the  same  time  it  con- 
tains invaluable  advice  as  to  how  to  buy  what  is  best  and  most  economical,  and 
how  to  dress  a  table  and  serve  meals.  In  large  families  the  price  of  the  work 
can  be  saved  daily  by  following  Mr.  Filippini's  suggestions.  One  of  the  excep- 
tional features  of  this  book  is  the  fact  that  it  is  adapted  to  the  humblest  as  well 
as  to  the  grandest  style  of  living.  No  matter  where  placed,  it  will  pay  for 
itself  many  times  over. 

DDTri?*!.  J  Presentation  Edition,  in  Full  Seal  Russia,  Marbled  Edges,       $4.50 
*^***'"^'*' 1  Kitchen  Edition,  in  Oil-Cloth,  ....         a.50 

CHARLES  L  WEBSTER  &  CO.,  Publishers,  67  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York  City. 


"  I  believe  in  temperance,  not  temperance  that  identifies  itself  with  prohibition, 
but  temperance  in  the  worcfs  true  meaning  J" 

THK  FLOWING  BOWL: 

V^hat  and  When  to  Drink. 

By  THE  ONLY  WILLIAM. 

Full  Instructions  How  to  Prepare,  Mix,  and  Serve  Drinks;  also  Recipes  for  227 

Mixed  Drinks,  89  Liquors  and  Ratafias,  115  Punches,  58  Bowls,  and  29  Extra 

Drinks;   also  Directions  for  Compounding  Non-Alcoholic  Beverages, 

*         and  for  the  Proper  Serving  of  Wines  and  Liquors. 

A  BOOK  THAT  SHOULD  BE  IN  EVERY  GENTLEMAN'S  HOUSE. 

that  the  reader  passes  from  the  description  of  one 


The  list  of  mixed  drinks  is  prefaced  by  much 
good  advice  as  to  when  and  what  to  imbibe,  and 
the  author  makes  the  point  that  the  daintiest 
drinkers  are  also  the  most  moderate,  being  in 
spirit  much  like  the  epicure  who  prefers  a  fine 
salad  to  all  the  other  dishes  of  a  great  dinner.— 
Ne-w  York  Herald. 

"The  Flowing  Bowl"  came  from  the  presses 
with  its  pages  breathing  the  essence  of  vineyards, 
of  musty  cellars,  of  golden  fruit,  of  fellowship  and 
cheer.     So  cleverly  written  is  the  subject  matter 


drink  to  another  with  much  the  same  feeling  he 
would  have,  had  he  tasted  each  decoction.  Be- 
ginning with  the  history  of  wine,  beer,  alcohoV, 
coffee,  tea,  and  water.  William  goes  into  a  chap- 
ter on  physiology  and  diet.  The  composition  of 
drinks  and  their  adulteration  is  next  touched 
upon,  and  a  chapter  on  ethnography  follows. — 
Ne7v  York  World. 

A  comprehensive,  a  beautiful,  and  a  remark- 
able book. — New  York  Sun. 


OCTAVO.  294  PAGES,  FULLY  INDEXED  AND  HANDSOMELY  BOUND. 

Fine  Cloth,  Gold  and  Silver  Stamps,       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         $2.00 

FOR   SALE   BY   ALL  BOOKSELLERS. 

CHARLES  L  WEBSTER  &  CO.,  Publishers,  67  Fifth  Avenue,  New  Yoric  City. 


liauirg  ilolumc  CuUnavg  Qtxus. 

No.  2. 


One  Hundred  Ways  of  CooRing  Fish. 


ONE   HUNDRED   WAYS   OF 
COOKING   FISH 

BY 

FILIPPINI 

(twbnty-five  years  with  delmonico) 


NEW  YORK  AND  BOSTON 
H.  M.  CALDWELL    COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 


Copyright^  i8g2, 
By  Charles  L.  Webster  &  Co. 

{All  rights  reserved.) 


Colonial  press: 

Electrotyped  and  Printed  by  C.  H.  Simonds  &  Co. 
Boston,  U.  S.  A. 


NOTES. 


A  pinch  of  salt  represents  205  grains,  or  a  tablespoonful. 

Half  a  pinch  of  pepper  represents  38  grains,  or  a  teaspoonful. 

A  third  of  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  represents  13  grains,  or  half  a  tea- 
spoonful. 

The  recipes  referred  to  in  the  '<One  Hundred  Ways  of  Cooking 
Eggs  "  will  be  found  in  the  appendix. 


CONTENTS 


No, 


PAGE 

How  to  Serve  Oysters  for  Private  Families  9 

Oysters  a  I'Alexandre  Dumas 10 

How  to  Serve  Clams 11 

To  prepare  Breaded  Fish 12 

Salmon  en  Papillotes 13 

Salmon,  Oyster  Sauce .  14 

Salmon  Colbert 15 

Salmon  a  la  Genoise 16 

Salmon,  rolled  k  I'Irlandaise 17 

Broiled  Salmon-tail 18 

Boiled  Halibut 19 

Halibut  Steaks,  maitre  d'h6tel 20 

Trout,  Shrimp  Sauce 21 

Trout  a  la  Cambaceres 22 

Trout  a  la  Chambord 23 

Boiled  Trout,  maitre  d'hdtel 24 

Trout,  with  fine  Herbs 25 

Trout  en  Papillotes 26 

Sole  a  I'Hollandaise 27 

Soles  Normande 28 

Soles  au  Gratin 29 

Fried  Soles,  sauce  Colbert 30 

Fillets  of  Soles,  Joinville 31 

Sole,  with  fine  Herbs N 32 

Sole  Dieppoise 33 

Skate,  or  Raieau  Naturel 34 

Shad,  broiled  maiti-e  d'h6tel 35 

Shad,  with  Sorrel 36 

Shad  vert-pr^ 37 

Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel,  maitre  d'h6tel. .  38 

Mackerel  en  Papillotes 39 

Fresh  Mackerel  aux  Fines  Herbes 40 


No.  PAGE 

33.  Matelote  of  E>ls... 41 

34.  Matelote  of  Eels  a  la  Normande 42 

35.  Blanched  Eels 43 

36.  Bluefish  k  I'lcarienne 44 

37.  Bluefish  a  ITtalienne 45 

38.  Bluefish  k  la  Venitienne 46 

39.  Sheep's-head  a  la  Creole 47 

40.  Bouille-a-Baisse,  ala  Marseillaise 48 

41 .  Bass  a  la  Bordelaise 49 

42.  Bass,  with  White  Wine 50 

43.  Bass  k  la  Chambord 51 

44.  Salt  Cod  a  la  Biscaenne 52 

45.  Codfish,  bonne  femme 53 

46.  Fish  Balls 54 

47.  How  to  Blanch  Codfish-tongues 56 

48.  Codfish-tongues  au  Beurre  Noir 57 

49.  Fried  Codfish-tongues 58 

50.  Boiled  Codfish ,  Oyster  Sauce 59 

51.  Broiled  Boned  Smelts  a  la  Bearnaise 60 

52.  Smelts  a  la  Toulouse 61 

53.  Stuffed  Smelts 6a 

54.  Smelts  au  Gratin.... 63 

55.  Lobster  a  I'Americaine 64 

56.  Lobster  with  Curry 63 

57.  Lobster  k  la  Newburg 66 

58.  Lobster  k  la  Bordelaise •. . . .  67 

59.  Lobster  en  Brochette  au  Petit  Sale 68 

60.  Lobster  en  Chevreuse 69 

61.  Broiled  Lobster  k  la  Ravigote 70 

62.  Lobster  Croquettes 71 

63.  Lobster  Cutlets,  Victoria 72 

64.  Stuflfed  Lobster 73 


CONTENTS. 


No.  PAGE 

65.  Fried  Soft-shelled  Crabs 74 

66.  Broiled  Soft-shelled  Crabs 75 

67.  Hard-shelled  Crabs  a  la  Diable 76 

68.  Crabs  k  la  St.  Jean 77 

69.  Crabs  k  la  St.  Laurent 78 

70.  Crabs  k  1' Anglaise 79 

71.  Fried  Oyster-Crabs 80 

72.  Clams  k  la  Marinifere 81 

73.  Mussels  a  la  Mariniere 82 

74.  Mussels  kla  Poulette 83 

75.  Fried  Oysters 84 

76.  Oysters  a  la  Villeroi 85 

77.  Broiled  Oysters 86 

78.  Oysters  a  la  Poulette 87 

79.  Oysters  en  Brochette  au  Petit  Sale 88 

80.  Oysters  a  la  Mali 89 

81.  Oyster  Patties 90 

82.  Stewed  Oysters  k  la  Baltimore 91 

83.  Soft  Clams  a  la  George  Merrill 92 

84.  Soft  Clams  a  la  Newburg 93 

85.  Canape  Lorenzo 94 

86.  Scallops  Brestoise ....  96 

87.  Edible  Snails  a  la  Bourguignonne 97 

88.  Terrapin  a  la  Baltimore 98 

89.  Terrapin  a  la  Maryland 99 

90.  Broiled  Frogs     100 

91.  Frogs  k  la  Poulette 101 

92.  Fried  Frogs 102 

93.  Broiled  Shad's  Roe,  with  Bacon 103 

94.  Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast.  104 

95.  Salt  Mackerel  k  la  Whitmore 105 

96.  Fried  White-Bait 106 

97.  Oysters  Scalloped  a  la  Baltimore 107 

98.  Terrapin  a  la  Robert  Bonner 108 

99.  Terrapin  in  Chafing-Dish  a  la  Maryland,  no 

100.  Oysters  a  la  Pomeroy in 


No.  PAGE 

APPENDIX, 

loi.  Oyster  Sauce 113 

102.  Sauce  Colbert 113 

103.  Meat  Glaze — Glace  de  Viande 113 

104.  Sauce  a  la  Genoise 113 

105.  Anchovy  Sauce 114 

106.  A  Bouquet — how  to  prepare 114 

107.  Butter,  maitre  d'h6tel 114 

108.  Shrimp  Sauce 114 

109.  Potatoes  a  I'Anglaise 1 14 

110.  Sauce  Espagnole 114 

111.  Forcemeat  Quenelles  of  Fish 115 

112.  Sauce  maitre  d'hdtel,  liee 113 

113.  Cooked  Fine  Herbs 115 

114.  Sauce  Allemande 115 

115.  Potato  Croquettes  and  Quenelles 116 

116.  Croutons  for  Soups 116 

117.  White-Roux 116 

118.  Cuisson  de  Poisson — Fish  Broth 116 

119.  Sauce  Veloute 116 

120.  Sauce  Chambord 117 

131.  Potatoes,  Parisienne 1x7 

122.  Sauce  Italienne 117 

123.  Butter  a  la  Ravigote 117 

124.  Lobster  Forcemeat 118 

125.  Chicken  Forcemeat 118 

126.  White  Broth  118 

127.  Sauce  Demi-Glace,  or  Madeira 119 

128.  Mirepoix 119 

129.  Shrimp  Butter 119 

130.  Sauce  Hollandaise 119 

131.  White  Stock 120 

132.  Bechamel  Sauce 120 

133.  Beamaise  Sauce 120 

134.  Cream  Sauce 121 

135.  Terrapin — how  to  prepare  it  121 


I.  How   to   Serve  Oysters  for   Private  Families, 

Oysters  should  be  kept  in  a  very  cold  place  before  they  are  opened, 
and  well  washed  before  using,  otherwise  their  appearance  will  be  de- 
stroyed. They  should,  according  to  the  French  custom,  be  opened 
on  the  deep  shell,  so  as  to  better  preserve  the  liquor,  then  laid  on 
finely  chopped  ice  for  a  short  time — too  long  destroys  their  flavor. 
While  they  should  be  kept  as  cold  as  possible,  they  should  never  be 
allowed  to  freeze,  therefore  they  must  only  be  opened  shortly  before 
they  are  needed ;  for  once  frozen,  they  quickly  turn  sour.  The  proper 
way  to  open  them  is  to  place  the  deep  shell  in  the  palm  of  the  left 
hand,  and  break  them  on  one  side.  The  Boston  stabbing  knife  is  pref- 
erable for  this,  but  if  there  be  none  handy  use  a  small  block  that  the 
oyster  can  fit  into,  and  stab  it  on  the  edge  ;  or  even  a  chopping-block 
and  chopping-knife  may  be  employed  in  case  of  necessity.  Serve  six 
oysters  for  each  person,  nicely  arranged  on  oyster-plates  with  quar- 
ters of  lemon. 


2.    Oysters  a  I  Alexandre  Dumas, 

Place  in  a  sauce-bowl  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three-quarters 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  very  finely  crushed  white  pepper^  one  medium- 
sized  fine,  sound,  well-peeled,  and  very  finely  chopped  shallot,  one 
heaped  teaspoonful  of  very  finely  chopped  chives,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  parsley,  also  very  finely  chopped  up.  Mix  lightly  to- 
gether, then  pour  in  a  light  teaspoonful  of  olive  oil,  six  drops  of  Ta- 
basco sauce,  one  saltspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  lastly  one 
light  gill,  or  five  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls,  of  good  vinegar.  Mix  it 
thoroughly  with  a  spoon  ;  send  to  the  table,  and  with  a  teaspoon  pour 
a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  oyster  just  before  eating  them. 


lO 


3-    How  to  serve  Clams, 

Clams  should  be  served  on  deep  plates,  covered  previously  with 
finely  chopped  ice.  To  have  them  sweet  and  fresh,  they  should  be 
kept  as  cold  as  possible.  Serve  six  on  each  plate  with  quarters  of 
lemon. 


4-    To  prepare   Breaded  Fish, 

1.  After  the  fish  is  pared,  cleaned  and  dried,  dip  it  first  in  milk, 
then  in  flour,  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat. 

2.  Take  very  clean  fish,  dip  it  in  beaten  ^gg,  then  in  freshly  grated 
bread-crumbs,  and  fry  i'n  very  hot  fat. 

3.  For  certain  fish,  like  whitebait,  immerse  them  in  milk,  then  in 
flour  mixed  with  pulverized  crackers,  shake  well  in  a  colander,  and 
throw  into  very  hot  fat.  Oysters  are  breaded  the  same  way,  but 
should  be  flattened  before  frying. 

4.  For  croustades  of  rice  or  potatoes,  dip  in  beaten  tgg  and  roll 
in  fresh  bread-crumbs  ;  repeat  three  times  before  frying. 


5-    Salmon  en  Papillate s. 

Procure  two  pounds  of  very  fresh  salmon  and  cut  it  into  six  even 
slices.  Season  these  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper. 
Roll  them  well.  Cut  out  six  heart-shaped  pieces  of  paper,  oil  them 
nicely,  and  have  twelve  thin  slices  of  cooked  ham,  then  proceed  to 
prepare  them  exactly  as  for  mackerel  en  papillote  (No.  31). 


13 


6.  SalmoUy    oyster   sauce. 

Place  two  pounds  of  very  fresh  salmon  in  a  fish-kettle,  completely 
cover  with  cold  water,  season  with  a  handful  of  salt,  add  one  medium- 
sized,  sliced  onion,  half  a  wine-glassful  of  white  vinegar,  eight  whole 
peppers,  two  cloves,  and  two  parsley-roots.  Range  the  kettle  on  a 
brisk  fire.  Five  minutes  after  coming  to  a  boil  the  salmon  will  be 
sufficiently  cooked.  Remove  from  the  kettle,  drain  it  welt;  dress  on 
a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  nicely  decorate  with  parsley-greens 
all  around  the  salmon,  and  serve  with  a  pint  of  hot  oyster  sauce  (No. 
loi)  separately. 

The  necessary  time  to  cook  the  above  to  perfection,  from  begin- 
ning to  end,  will  be  thirty-five  minutes. 


14 


7.  Salmon  Colbert. 

Proceed  as  for  No.  6,  and  serve  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of 
Colbert  sauce  (No.  102),  also  four  plain  boiled  potatoes  served  separ- 
ately, and  cut  in  quarters. 


15 


8.    Salmon  h  la  Gdnoise. 

To  be  prepared  the  same  as  (No.  7),  garnishing  with  four  clusters 
of  mushrooms — four  mushrooms  on  each  cluster — and  six  cooked 
crawfish  instead  of  the  boiled  potatoes.  Serve  with  half  a  pint  of 
Genoise  sauce  (No.  164)  separate. 


16 


9-    Salmon,  rolled  a  llrlandaise. 

Bone  three  pounds  of  salmon.  Parboil  it.  Besprinkle  the  sides 
and  insides  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  the  same 
of  nutm^  ;  also  twelve  chopped  oysters,  one  tablespoonful  of  par- 
sley, and  half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs.  Roll  it  together,  then  put  it 
in  a  deep  pan  with  one  ounce  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
twenty-five  minutes  and  serve  on  a  dish,  pouring  its  own  gravy  over. 


17 


lo.  Broiled  Salmon-tail. 

Take  three  pounds  of  the  tail  part  of  a  salmon.  Steep  it  for  five 
or  six  hours  in  a  marinade  composed  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive 
oil  in  a  dish  with  a  quarter  of  a  bunch  of  parsley-roots,  two  bay-leaves, 
and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Take  out  the  salmon  and  broil  for  ten  minutes 
on  one  side  and  five  minutes  on  the  other  (skin  side).  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  serve  with  two  ounces  of  melted  butter,  flavored  with  a 
light  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  chervil,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  chives, 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  medium-sized,  sound  lemon. 


i8 


II.  Boiled  Halibut, 

Put  a  piece  of  halibut  weighing  two  pounds  in  a  saucepan,  and 
cover  it  with  fresh  water;  add  one  sliced  onion,  half  a  sliced  carrot, 
and  a  bouquet  (No.  io6).  Season  with  a  handful  of  salt  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Put  on  the  lid  and  let  cook  gently,  but  no 
more  than  five  minutes,.after  boiling-point;  then  lift  up  the  fish  alone, 
drain  well;  dress  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  any  desired  sauce. 


19 


12.  Halibut  Steaks,  maitre  d' hotel. 

Wipe  well  a  two-pound  piece  of  fresh  halibut,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  and 
season  it  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sweet  oil.  Roll  it  well  and  lay  it  on  a  c^)uble  broiler;  then 
place  it  on  a  brisk  fire,  and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side. 
Dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  gill  of  tnaitre  d'hotel  sauce  (No. 
107)  over,  decorate  with  parsley-greens,  and  serve. 


20 


13.    Trout,  Shrimp  Sauce. 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  six  fine  trout,  weighing  about  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  each.  Place  them  on  a  grate  in  the  fish-kettle,  with  a  pinch  of 
salt,  adding  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sprig  of  thyme,  and  two  bay-leaves. 
Moisten  with  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine  and  half  a  pint  of  water. 
Put  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  five  minutes  after 
boiling-point;  then  drain  and  serve  on  a  dish  garnished  with  parsley. 
Send  it  to  the  table  with  half  a  pint  of  shrimp  sauce  (No.  108)  in  a 
separate  bowl,  also  four  plain,  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  quarters,  a  I'An- 
glaise  (No.  109).     Keep  the  fish-stock  for  further  use. 


14-    Trout  a  la  Cambaceres. 

Cook  six  trout  as  for  (No.  13);  when  cooked,  then  place  on  a  hot 
dish.  Put  in  a  saucepan  two  minced  truffles,  six  mushrooms,  also 
minced,  and  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no),  also  twelve  olives 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce.  Let  cook  for  ten  minutes, 
then  skim  off  the  fat  very  carefully,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  trout 
before  serving. 


22 


15.    Trout  a  la  Chambord. 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  three  fine  trout  of  half  a  pound  each. 
Stuff  them  with  fish  forcemeat  (No.  iii),  and  place  them  in  a  deep 
baking-dish,  buttering  it  well  with  about  half  an  ounce  of  butter.  Add 
half  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  a  bouquet  (No.  106),  half  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  in  the  oven, 
being  very  careful  to  baste  it  frequently.  Take  the  juice  from  under 
the  fish,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  of  good  Espagnole 
sauce  (No.  no).  Reduce  and  skim  off  the  fat.  Add  one  truffle  and 
four  mushrooms,  all  well-sliced,  also  twelve  blanched  oysters.  Dress 
the  trout  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  decorate  the  fish 
with  six  fish  quenelles  (No.  in). 


23 


1 6.    Broiled  Trout,  maitre  d'hdtel. 

Procure  six  fine  trout,  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each;  clean  and 
wash  well,  drain  them  in  a  napkin,  and  make  three  incisions  on  each 
side.  Place  them  on  a  dish  with  one  teaspoonful  of  oil,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper;  roll  gently  and  put  them  on  the 
broiler.  Cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  then  lay  them  on  a  dish, 
pour  a  gill  of  maitre  d'hotel  sauce  (No.  112)  over,  and  serve  with  six 
slices  of  lemon,  or  with  any  other  sauce  desired. 


24 


ly.    Trouty   with  fine  Herbs, 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  six  fine  trout  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each. 
Put  them  on  a  buttered  dish,  adding  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine  and 
one  finely  chopped  shallot.  Let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  the 
gravy  in  a  saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  herbs  (No. 
113),  moistening  with  half  a  pint  of  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114).  Re- 
duce the  gravy  to  one-half,  and  pour  it  over  the  trout  with  the  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon,  and  serve. 


25 


1 8.    Tro2it  en  Papillotes. 

Take  six  trout,  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each,  and  stuff  them  with 
fish  forcemeat  (No.  iii).  Oil  as  many  pieces  of  paper  as  there  are 
fish;  put  a  barde  of  salt  pork  on  either  end  of  each  piece  of  paper,  lay 
a  trout  on  top,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  then  fold  the  paper  and  tie 
it  securely  with  string.  Cook  in  a  baking-dish  in  a  rather  slow  oven 
for  about  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  them  in  their  envelopes,  after  re- 
moving the  strings,  with  any  sauces  desired. 


26 


1 9-  Sole  a  F Hollandaise. 

Skin  and  bone  well  three  medium-sized  soles;  put  the  fillets  in  a 
stewpan,  and  cover  them  with  salted  water,  adding  a  few  drops  of  vin- 
egar. Cook  for  about  six  minutes.  Then  take  them  off,  drain  well, 
and  arrange  them  on  a  dish.  Pour  one  ounce  of  melted  butter  over, 
with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  garnish  with  green  parsley,  and  serve 
with  twelve  pieces  of  potatoes  a  I'Anglaise  (No.  109)  separate. 


27 


\  20.  Soles  Normande. 

Take  the  fillets  from  three  fine  soles,  as  for  No.  19;  fold  them 
in  two,  and  lay  them  in  a  buttered,  flat  saucepan,  with  half  a  glassful 
of  white  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor,  and  half  a 
pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  for  six  minutes;  then 
lift  them  up,  drain,  and  arrange  them  on  a  dish.  Reduce  the  gravy  to 
one-half,  add  twelve  blanched  oysters,  and  six  sliced  mushrooms, 
moistening  with  half  a  pint  of  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114).  Thicken 
the  sauce  well  with  a  tablespoonful  of  good  butter,  tossing  well  till 
dissolved,  and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Garnish  the  sides  of  the 
dish  with  the  oysters  and  mushrooms,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish. 
Decorate  with  three  small,  cooked  crawfish,  three  fried  smelts,  and 
three  small  round  croquettes  of  potatoes  (No.  115). 


28 


21.  Soles  au  Gratin. 

Proceed  as  for  No.  20.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked,  fine 
herbs  (No.  113)  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking-dish,  fold  the  fillets 
in  two,  and  place  them  in,  crown-shaped.  Season  with  half  a  pinch 
each  of  salt  and  pepper,  then  moisten  with  half  a  glassful  of  white 
wine,  and  bake  for  five  minutes.  Take  out  the  dish,  decorate  it  with 
twelve  mushroom  buttons,  adding  half  a  pint  of  good  Espagnole  sauce 
(No.  no).  Sprinkle  over  with  fresh  bread-crumbs,  pour  on  a  few 
drops  of  melted  butter,  and  bake  once  more  for  three  minutes;  then 
press  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  over  the  fillets,  add  half  a  pinch  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve.  (All  fish  au  gratin  are  prepared  the  same 
way.) 


29 


2  2.  Fried  Soles,  sauce  Colbert. 

Select  six  small  soles,  cut  off  their  heads,  and  make  an  incision 
down  the  backbone.  Season  with  one  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  roll  in  fresh  bread-crumbs  and 
beaten  eggs,  then  flatten  them  well,  and  leave  them  to  drip  for  a  few 
minutes;  fry  them  for  three  minutes  in  very  hot  fat;  drain,  add  an- 
other half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  arrange  them  on  a  dish  on  a  folded 
napkin.  Garnish  with  a  quarter  of  a  bunch  of  fried  parsley,  and  serve 
with  half  a  pint  of  Colbert  sauce  (No.  102)  separate.. 


30 


23.  Fillets  of  SolCy  Joinvzlle. 

Take  the  fillets  of  three  soles,  fold  them,  and  lay  them  crown- 
shaped  in  a  buttered,  flat  stewpan,  moistening  with  half  a  glassful  of 
white  wine,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor.  Season 
with  half  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  on  a  moderate  fire 
for  six  minutes.  Arrange  the  fillets  on  a  dish,  and  put  it  on  the  side 
of  the  stove;  reduce  the  gravy  to  half,  adding  one  cooked  lobster 
claw,  one  truffle,  and  three  mushrooms,  all  cut  julienne-shaped.  Add 
half  a  pint  of  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114);  stir  it  well,  and  pour  it  over 
the  soles  before  serving,  inserting  a  piece  of  truffle  and  a  mushroom 
button  on  each  fillet,  also  in  every  one  stick  a  picked  shrimp,  with  its 
head  eftct,  if  at  hand,  and  then  serve. 


31 


24-    Sole,  with  fine  Herbs. 

Proceed  as  for  sole  Joinville  (No.  23),  but  replace  the  truffles  and 
lobster  claw  by  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  fine  herbs  (No.  113), 
half  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley,  and  the  same  of  chervil  and  chives. 
Garnish  with  six  heart-shaped  croutons  (No.  116),  and  serve. 


32 


25.   Sole  Dieppoise. 

Lift  the  fillets  from  three  medium-sized  soles,  put  them  in  a  but- 
tered stewpan,  with  one  very  finely  chopped  shallot,  moistening  with 
half  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom 
liquor.  Cook  for  six.  minutes,  then  lay  them  on  a  dish,  reduce  the 
gravy  to  half,  adding  twelve  cooked  mussels,  six  mushroom  buttons, 
and  half  a  pint  of  good  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114).  Thicken  it  well 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  tossing  till  well  dissolved,  and  throw  it 
over  the  fillets  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Serve  with  six  crotj- 
tons  of  fried  bread  (No.  116)  around  the  dish. 


33 


26.  Skate,  or  Rate  au  Nature L 
Pare  and  cut  off  the  fins  from  half  a  skate  weighing  four  pounds 
the  half;  divide  it  into  six  square  pieces,  wash  them  well,  being  very- 
careful  to  scrape  it  with  a  sharp  knife,  so  as  to  remove  the  mucus  ad- 
hering to  it.  Put  the  pieces  into  a  saucepan  in  which  are  already 
placed  one  sliced  carrot,  one  onion,  half  a  bunch  of  parsley-roots,  one 
sprig  of  thyme,  two  bay-leaves,  half  a  handful  of  whole  peppers,  plenty 
of  salt— at  least  a  handful — and  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar.  Cover  it 
well  with  water,  boil  on  a  moderate  fire  for  forty-five  minutes,  then 
take  it  off  and  lift  up  the  pieces  of  skate  with  a  skimmer;  lay  them  on 
a  table,  and  remove  the  skin  from  both  sides;  place  them  on  a  deep 
dish,  and  strain  the  stock  slowly  over,  and  use,  whenever  needed,  with 
any  kind  of  sauce  desired. 


34 


27.  Shad,  broiled  maitre  dhStel. 

Pare  and  cut  a  small  shad  in  two,  scale  it  and  remove  the  back- 
bone; lay  it  on  a  dish,  sprinkling  it  over  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
baste  with  one  tablespoonful  of  oil.  Leave  it  for  a  few  moments,  then 
broil  it  on  a  slow  fire  in  a  double  broiler  for  about  fifteen  minutes  on 
the  flesh  side,  and  for  one  minute  on  the  skin  side,  leaving  the  roe  in 
the  inside.  Put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  gill  of  good  maitre  d'hotel 
sauce  (No.  112)  over,  and  serve  with  six  slices  of  lemon. 


35 


28.  Shad,  with  Sorrel. 

Select  a  small,  fine  shad,  pare  and  scale  it,  then  let  it  steep  as  long 
as  possible  in  a  marinade  composed  of  one  tablespoonful  of  oil,  half  a 
sliced  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  bunch  of  parsley-roots,  and  half  a  sliced 
onion.  When  ready,  place  it  in  a  buttered  stewpan,  with  half  a  glass- 
ful of  white  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor,  also  a 
good  bouquet  (No.  io6).  Take  two  handfuls  of  picked  and  washed 
sorrel,  mince  it  very  fine,  then  put  it  in  the  stewpan  with  the  fish,  add- 
ing a  good  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper;  cover  it,  and  let  it 
cook  as  long  as  possible  on  a  slow  fire — at  least  two  hours;  then 
arrange  the  shad  on  a  dish.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  white  roux 
(No.  117),  to  the  juice,  thicken  well,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish 
when  serving,  with  some  more  of  its  own  gravy  in  a  sauce-bowl. 


36 


29-  Shad  vert'pri. 

Pare  and  scale  a  small,  fine  shad,  put  it  on  a  deep  baking-dish, 
well-buttered,  and  season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  adding  two  finely  chopped  shallots  and  half  a  glassful  of  white 
wine.  Cover  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  When  done,  put  the  juice  in  a  sauce- 
pan, with  half  a  pint  of  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114),  a  pinch  of  finely 
chopped  chervil,  and  a  little  spinach  green  (Breton  essence,  a  salt- 
spoonful).  Let  cook  again  for  three  minutes,  then  pour  a  little  of  it, 
through  a  Chinese  strainer,  on  the  fish,  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  sepa- 
rate sauce-bowl. 


37 


30.  Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel,  maitre  (ThdteL 

Pare  and  split  two  good-sized,  fresh  mackerel  through  the  back, 
remove  the  spine,  score  them  slightly,  and  rub  them  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sweet  oil;  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  then  broil  them  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes  on  the  split 
side,  and  one  minute  on  the  skin  side.  Lay  them  on  a  dish,  pour  a 
gill  of  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  107)  over,  and  serve  with  a  few  pars- 
ley greens  and  six  slices  of  lemon. 

Broiled  Spanish-mackerel  are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


38 


31.    Mackerel  en  Papillotes. 

Oil  three  sheets  of  white  paper  a  little  larger  than  the  length  of  the 
fish.  Cut  six  thin  slices  of  cooked,  lean  ham;  lay  one  slice  on  each 
piece  of  paper,  and  on  top  a  tablespoonful  of  cooked  fine  herbs  (No. 
113).  Select  three  mackerel ;  make  four  or  five  incisions  on  each  side; 
season  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper,  divided  evenly 
on  both  sides  of  the  fish,  then  roll  them  lightly,  and  lay  the  mackerel 
on  top  of  the  fine  herbs;  spread  a  tablespoonful  more  herbs  over  each 
mackerel,  and  cover  with  a  slice  of  ham.  Then  lift  up  the  other  side 
of  the  paper  and  twist  the  edges  together  with  the  fingers,  or  a  simpler 
way  is  to  fold  them  the  same  as  trout  (No.  18).  When  ready,  put 
them  in  a  baking-sheet,  place  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  let  them 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Have  a  hot  dish  ready,  and  after  taking 
them  from  the  oven,  use  a  cake-turner  to  lift  the  fish  up  gently,  and 
dress  them  on  the  dish,  leaving  the  paper  undisturbed;  then  serve. 

39 


32.  Fresh  Mackerel  aux  Fines  Herbes. 

Choose  two  fine,  fresh  mackerel,  make  six  small  incisions  on  both 
sides,  and  place  them  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  with  half  a  glassful 
of  white  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor,  a  finely  chop- 
ped shallot,  and  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  with  the  third  of  a  pinch  of  pep- 
per. Cover  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  place  the  fish  on  a  dish.  Pour  the 
gravy  into  a  stewpan,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  fine  herbs 
(No.  1 13),  a  pint  of  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114),  and  a  pinch  of  chopped 
parsley.  Thicken  well  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  stir  well  until 
dissolved,  and  pour  it  over  the  mackerel  when  serving.  (All  mackerel 
can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  only  adding  different  sauces  to  the 
gravy.) 


40 


33-  Matelote  of  Eels, 

Pare  and  then  cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  eels  into  pieces  two 
inches  in  length.  When  well  washed,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter;  fry  them  for  two  minutes;  add  a  glassful  of 
red  wine,  a  third  of  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  third 
of  a  pinch  of  pepper,  also  a  bouquet  (No.  io6),  a  glassful  of  fish-stock 
(No.  ii8),  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor.  Add  six 
small,  glazed  onions,  and  six  mushroom  buttons.  Cook  for  thirty- 
minutes,  then  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  white  roux  (No.  117);  stir  well 
while  cooking  five  minutes  longer,  and  serve  with  six  heart-shaped 
croutons  (No.  116). 


41 


34-  Matelote  of  Eels  a  la  Normande, 

Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  eels  into  pieces,  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  fry  two  minutes;  add  a  glassful 
of  white  wine,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor.  Season 
well  with  half  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  third  of  a  pinch 
of  nutmeg.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  good  vel- 
oute  (No.  119),  six  mushrooms,  twelve  blanched  oysters,  six  fish 
quenelles  (No.  iii),  and  six  small,  cooked  crawfish  tails.  Cook  again 
for  five  minutes,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  beat  in  three  tgg  yolks, 
but  do  not  boil  again,  and  garnish  with  six  fried  croutons  (No.  116). 


42 


35-  Blanched  Eels, 

Select  a  pound  and  a  half  of  well-skinned  eels,  cut  them  into 
pieces  and  tie  them  in  rings;  put  them  with  cold  water  in  a  saucepan, 
with  a  good  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  vinegar,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two 
bay-leaves,  twelve  whole  peppers,  a  quarter  of  a  bunch  of  parsley-' 
roots,  one  onion,  and  one  carrot.  Place  them  on  a  slow  fire,  and  take 
them  off  before  they  boil;  lay  them  in  an  earthen  jar  with  the  water 
they  were  boiled  in.  (These  can  be  used  for  frying  or  boiling,  accord- 
ing to  need.) 


43 


36.  Blue  fish  ti  ricarienne. 

Scale  and  score  two  pounds  of  bluefish,  place  it  on  a  well-buttered 
baking-dish,  moistening  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor 
and  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine.  Season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  third  of  a  pinch  of  pepper,  then  cover  with  a  buttered  paper, 
and  put  to  cook  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  for  fifteen  minutes;  lift 
it  out,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  and  put  the  gravy  into  a  stewpan,  adding  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce  and  half  an  ounce  of  finely  minced, 
cooked,  smoked  beef-tongue.  Boil  for  two  minutes  again,  and  throw 
the  whole  over  the  fish  when  serving.  Garnish  with  six  small,  cooked 
crawfish,  if  any  on  hand. 


44 


37-  Blue  fish  a  ritalienne. 

Score  and  scale  two  pounds  of  bluefish;  place  it  in  a  buttered  pan, 
with  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom 
liquor,  half  of  a  very  finely  chopped  onion,  and  six  chopped-up  mush- 
rooms. Season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Cover 
the  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes;  take  the  fish  out,  lay  it  on  a  serving  dish,  and  put  the  juice 
in  a  stewpan,  adding  a  gill  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no),  with  a  small 
glassful  of  white  wine;  reduce  for  two  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the 
fish,  with  one  pinch  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  with  six 
heart-shaped  pieces  of  crouton  (No.  ii6). 


45 


3^-  Bluefish  a  la  Venitienne, 

Prepare  the  fish  as  for  No.  37,  adding  to  it  onfe  tomato  cut  in  pieces, 
half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no)  and  six  whole  mushrooms. 
Besprinkle  lightly  with  fresh  bread-crumbs,  and  throw  over  all  a  few 
drops  of  clarified  butter;  put  it  in  the  oven  for  eight  minutes,  and 
serve  with  half  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley. 


46 


39-  Sheep S'head  a  la  Creole. 

Put  one  chopped  onion  and  one  very  finely  chopped  green  pepper 
— the  seed  extracted — in  a  stewpan;  brown  them  in  a  half  gill  of  oil 
for  five  minutes,  then  add  one  tomato,  cut  in  pieces,  four  sliced  mush- 
rooms, a  good  bouquet  (No.  io6),  and  a  clove  of  garlic.  Season  well 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  then  moisten  with  half 
a  pint  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no).  Cut  a  fish  weighing  three 
pounds  in  six  slices,  lay  them  flat  in  the  stewpan,  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor  (if  any  handy),  and  let  cook  for  one 
hour  on  a  very  slow  fire.  When  ready  to  serve,  sprinkle  over  with  a 
pinch  of  chopped  parsley,  and  decorate  with  six  pieces  of  heart-shaped 
crouton  (No.  ii6).  (All  fish  a  la  Creole  are  prepared  the  same  way, 
the  time  allowed  for  cooking  depending  on  the  firmness  of  the  fish. 
The  fish  can  be  left  whole  instead  of  dividing  in  slices,  if  desired.) 


47 


40.  B out lle-a- Bats se,  a  la  Marseillaise, 

Brown  two  sliced  onions  in  a  gill  of  oil  for  five  minutes  in  a  sauce- 
pan, then  moisten  with  one  quart  of  fish-stock  (No.  ii8),  adding  a 
bouquet  (No.  io6),  three  cloves  of  garlic,  bruised  and  minced  ex- 
ceedingly fine.  Dilute  a  third  of  a  pinch  of  powdered  Spanish  saffron 
in  water,  and  add  it  to  the  gravy.  Take  one  small  eel,  one  very  small 
bass,  the  same  of  sole,  one  raw  lobster — in  fact,  all  the  firm  fish  ready 
at  hand — cut  them  in  slices,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  third 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  put  them  all  together  on  a 
slow  fire.  Let  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  and  when  ready,  serve  in  a 
deep  dish,  on  which  you  previously  arrange  six  pieces  of  toast  from  a 
French  loaf  of  bread. 

N.  B. — The  above  should  be  served  exceedingly  hot. 


48 


41.   Bass  h  la  Bordelaise. 

Cut  a  deep  incision  down  the  back  of  a  three-pound  sea-bass,  put 
it  in  a  baking-dish  with  half  a  glassful  of  red  wine,  half  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  a  third  of  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Besprinkle  with  a  finely  chop- 
ped shallot,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Lay  the  bass  on  a  dish,  put  the  juice  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  gill  of  good  Espagnole  (No.  no),  four  finely  shred  mush- 
rooms, and  a  thin  slice  of  finely  chopped  garlic;  finish  cooking  for 
five  minutes  more,  then  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Decorate  with  six 
cooked  crawfish  or  shrimps,  and  serve  very  hot. 


49 


42-   Bass,  with   White   Wine, 

Lay  a  three-pound,  well-cleaned  bass  on  a  well-buttered  baking- 
dish;  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  third  of  a  pinch  of  pepper; 
moisten  with  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
mushroom  liquor.  Cover  with  a  heavy  piece  of  buttered  paper,  and 
cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  lay  the  fish  on  a 
dish;  put  the  juice  in  a  saucepan,  with  half  a  pint  of  good  Allemande 
(No.  114),  thicken  well  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  till  well  dis- 
solved, and  throw  it  over  the  bass,  serving  with  the  six  heart-shaped 
croMons  (No.  116). 


50 


43-   Bass  a  la  Chambord, 

Lift  the  middle  skin  from  the  back  of  a  three-pound  bass,  leaving 
the  head  and  tail  covered ;  lard  the  fish  nicely  with  a  very  small  lard- 
ing needle,  and  then  lay  it  on  a  buttered,  deep  baking-pan,  adding  to 
it  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  and  half  a  carrot,  and  half  an  onion, 
both  sliced,  also  a  bouquet  (No.  io6).  Season  with  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  then  cover  with  a  buttered  paper;  cook 
it  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  being  very  careful  to  baste  it  fre- 
quently, then  lift  out  the  fish  and  lay  it  on  a  dish.  Strain  the  gravjr 
into  a  saucepan,  with  half  a  pint  of  Chambord  garnishing  (No.  120), 
moistened  with  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  (No.  no);  reduce  for  five 
minutes.  Decorate  the  dish  with  clusters  of  the  garnishing,  and  three 
decorated  fish  quenelles  (No.  in)  to  separate  them,  also  three  small 
cooked  crawfish,  and  serve. 


51 


44*   Salt  Cod  a  la  Bzscaenne. 

Take  two  pounds  of  boneless  cod,  and  soak  it  in  plenty  of  cold 
water  for  twenty-four  hours,  changing  the  water  as  often  as  possible. 
Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  fresh  water,  then  let  simmer  on 
a  slow  fire  till  boiling;  take  it  off,  and  drain  it  well;  return  it  to  the 
pan  with  fresh  water,  and  let  come  to  a  boil  again,  then  scale  it  by 
separating  the  bones.  Fry  together  in  a  saucepan  two  chopped  onions 
and  one  green  pepper  in  a  gill  of  oil.  Let  cook  for  five  minutes,  then 
add  one  good-sized  tomato,  cut  in  pieces,  one  clove  of  bruised  garlic, 
and  one  Chili  pepper.  Moisten  the  fish  with  three  pints  of  broth,  add 
a  bouquet  (No.  io6),  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce  and  a  pint 
of  Parisian  potatoes  (No.  121).  Let  cook  for  forty-five  minutes,  then 
add  the  codfish;  boil  again  for  five  minutes  more.  Dress  it  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve  with  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over. 


52 


45-  Codfish,  bonne  femme. 

Have  two  pounds  of  cooked,  soaked,  boneless  cod;  prepare  it  the 
same  as  for  No.  44,  then  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  moistening  with  half  a 
pint  of  bechamel  (No.  132),  and  half  a  pint  of  Allemande  (No.  114). 
Add  three  sliced  potatoes,  and  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  thin  slices, 
and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  (If  too  thick,  put  in  a  little  milk.)  Cook 
for  about  five  minutes  longer,  then  serve  with  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley. 


53 


46.  Fish  Balls, 

Place  in  a  large  pan,  with  plenty  of  fresh  water,  three  pounds  of 
boneless  codfish,  and  let  soak  for  twelve  hours.  Drain,  and  place  it 
in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  range,  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  as  soon 
as  it  begins  to  boil,  drain  all  the  water  through  a  colander.  Carefully 
pick  out  all  the  bones  from  the  cod,  and  return  it  to  the  saucepan, 
adding  five  medium-sized,  well-washed,  and  peeled  sliced  potatoes, 
one  gill  of  cold  water  or  broth,  and  cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for 
twenty  minutes,  then  add  half  an  ounce  of  butter.  Take  from  off  the 
fire.     Season  with  one  pinch  of  white  pepper,  then,  with  the  aid  of  a 


54 


potato-masher  or  a  pounder,  mash  all  well  together  right  in  the  pan. 
Transfer  it  to  a  dish,  and  let  cool.  Make  up  small  fish  balls  two 
inches  in  diameter  by  one  inch  thick,  lightly  sprinkle  them  with  a 
very  little  flour.  Heat  in  a  frying-pan  one  gill  of  clarified  butter; 
when  very  hot,  put  in  the  fish  balls  and  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each 
side,  so  as  to  have  them  of  a  good  brown  color.  Gently  lift  them 
from  the  pan  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  nap- 
kin, crown- shaped,  one  overlapping  another.  Decorate  the  centre  of 
the  dish  with  parsley-greens,  and  serve. 


55 


47-  How  to  Blanch  Codfish-tongues, 

Procure  eighteen  fine,  fresh  codfish  tongues,  wash  them  thorough- 
ly in  cold  water,  then  drain,  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot 
stove;  cover  with  fresh  water,  and  season  with  a  handful  of  salt,  six 
cloves,  twelve  whole  peppers,  one  sliced  onion,  a  bouquet  (No.  io6), 
and  half  a  sliced  lemon.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil,  then  transfer  them 
with  the  water  and  garnishings  to  a  stone  jar,  and  use  when  needed. 


56 


4^-  Codfish-tongues  au  Beurre  Noir, 

Take  eighteen  blanched  codfish-tongues,  as  for  No.  47,  heat  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  gill  of  their  own  juice,  but  do  not  let  them 
boil;  drain  well,  then  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish;  pour  a  pint  of  drawn 
butter  over,  and  decorate  each  side  of  the  dish  with  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley,  then  send  to  the  table. 


57 


49-  Fried  Codfish-tongues. 

Take  eighteen  fine,  fresh  codfish-tongues,  wash  them  well,  drain 
them  in  a  napkin,  dip  them  in  cold  milk,  and  roll  them,  one  by  one, 
in  flour.  Put  one  gill  of  clarified  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  heat  it 
well,  then  gently  lay  in  the  tongues  separately,  and  let  cook  for  three 
minutes.  Turn  them  on  the  other  side,  using  a  fork,  and  cook  for 
three  minutes  more.  Lift  them  up  carefully  with  a  skimmer,  and 
put  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain.  Season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  half 
a  pinch  of  pepper;  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
and  decorate  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  a  gill  of  hot  tomato  sauce 
in  a  separate  bowl. 


58 


50.  Boiled  Codfish,  Oyster  Sauce. 

Cover  a  three-pound  fresh  codfish  with  well-salted  fish-stock  (No. 
ii8),  and  let  cook  thirty  minutes  without  boiling;  then  take  it  out  and 
drain  it  well.  Lay  it  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  a  few  branches  of 
parsley-greens,  and  twelve  pieces  of  potato  a  I'Anglaise  (No.  109). 
Serve  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  oyster  sauce  (No.  loi)  sepa- 
rately.    (All  codfish  with  different  sauces  are  prepared  the  same  way.) 


59 


51.    Broiled  Boned  Smelts ,  a  la  Btarnaise. 

Split  twelve  good-sized  or  eighteen  medium-sized  smelts  up  the 
back,  remove  the  backbone,  rub  them  with  one  tablespoonful  of  oil, 
and  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  third  of  a  pinch  of  pepper. 
Broil  them  in  a  double  broiler  for  two  minutes  on  each  side;  pour  a 
little  more  than  a  gill  of  good  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  133)  on  a  dish, 
arrange  the  smelts  carefully  on  top,  and  serve,  finishing  with  a  very 
little  cream  sauce  (No.  134)  around  the  dish. 


60 


52.  Smelts  a  la   Toulouse, 

Take  twelve  large  or  eighteen  medium-sized  smelts,  bone  them  as 
for  No.  51,  and  then  close  them  up  again.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan, 
with  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mush- 
room liquor;  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  third  of  a  pinch 
of  pepper,  and  cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for  six  minutes.  Arrange  the 
smelts  on  a  dish,  add  to  the  sauce  twelve  mushroom  buttons,  two 
sliced  truffles,  six  fish  quenelles  (No.  iii),  and  moisten  with  half  a 
pint  of  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114).  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  sufficiently,  and  throw  the  sauce  over  the  smelts.  Neatly  dress 
the  garnishing  around  the  dish,  and  serve  with  six  heart-shaped  crou- 
tons (No.  116).  (Smelts  are  all  prepared  the  same  way,  only  adding 
different  garnishings.) 


61 


53-  Stuffed  Smelts, 

Cut  off  the  fins,  wash  and  dry  well  with  a  towel,  eighteen  fine, 
fresh,  medium-sized,  Long  Island  smelts;  remove  the  eggs  without 
splitting  the  stomachs  open,  then  fill  them  with  a  fish  force-meat  (No. 
Ill),  using  a  paper  cornet  for  the  purpose.  Lay  the  smelts  on  a  well- 
buttered  silver  baking-dish  (if  possible),  and  cover  them  with  a  pint  of 
sauce  Italienne  (No.  122).  Put  them  in  a  hot  oven  and  let  bake  for 
eight  minutes;  remove  them,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  good  lemon  over, 
and  lay  the  silver  dish  on  top  of  another  to  avoid  soiling  the  table- 
cloth; then  serve. 


62 


54-  Smelts  au  Gratin, 

Clean  eighteen  smelts,  wipe  them  very  dry,  and  put  them  on  a 
baking-dish  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  fine  herbs  (No.  113), 
half  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  third  of  a 
pinch  of  pepper.  Cover  with  six  whole  mushrooms  and  half  a  pint  of 
Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no).  Besprinkle  lightly  with  fresh  bread- 
crumbs and  six  drops  of  melted  butter;  place  it  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  and  serve  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  also  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over.  (The  smelts  can  be  boned  if  so 
desired.) 


63 


55-   Lobster  a  rAmdricatne, 

Split  two  fine,  good-sized,  freshly  boiled  lobsters;  remove  all  the 
meat  carefully,  then  cut  it  up  into  pieces  one  inch  in  length.  Have  a 
pan  on  the  hot  range  with  half  a  gill  of  good  olive  oil,  and  when  the 
oil  is  very  hot  add  the  pieces  of  lobster.  Chop  very  fine  one  medium- 
sized,  peeled  onion,  one  fine,  sound,  green  pepper,  and  half  a  clove  of 
peeled,  very  sound  garlic;  add  all  to  the  lobster,  and  let  cook  for  five 
minutes,  gently  mixing  meanwhile.  Season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  red  pepper,  adding  half  a  wine-glassful  of  good 
white  wine.  Reduce  for  two  minutes,  then  add  one  gill  of  tomato 
sauce  and  one  medium-sized,  sound,  red,  peeled  tomato,  cut  into 
small  dice-shaped  pieces.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  longer,  gently  shuffling 
meanwhile.  Pour  the  whole  into  a  very  hot,  deep  dish,  or  in  a  hot 
tureen,  and  serve. 


56.  Lobster  with  Curry, 

Pick  out  all  the  meat  from  two  good-sized,  fine,  freshly  boiled,  and 
split  lobsters.  Cut  the  meat  up  in  one-inch-length  equal  pieces. 
Have  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  range  with  an  ounce  of  very  good  butter; 
add  the  lobster  to  it,  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes.  Season  with  one 
pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  'Place  in  a  bowl  one  table- 
spoonful  of  Indian  curry,  with  half  a  wine-glassful  of  good  white  wine, 
mix  well  together,  then  pour  it  into  the  lobster.  Cook  for  two  min- 
utes. Add  two  gills  of  hot  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114),  shuffle  briskly 
for  one  minute  longer.  Make  a  border  of  fresh-boiled  rice  all  around 
the  hot  dish;  dress  the  lobster  right  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  serve 
hot. 


65 


57-  Lobster  a  la  Newburg, 

Split  two  good-sized,  fine,  freshly  boiled  lobsters.  Pick  all  the 
meat  out  from  the  shells,  then  cut  it  into  one-inch-length  equal  pieces. 
Place  it  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  range  with  one  ounce  of  very  good, 
fresh  butter.  Season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful 
of  red  pepper,  adding  two'  medium-sized,  sound  truffles  cut  into  small 
dice-shaped  pieces.  Cook  for  five  minutes;  then  add  a  wine-glassful 
of  good  Madeira  wine.  Reduce  to  one-half,  which  will  take  three 
minutes.  Have  three  tgg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
cream,  beat  well  together,  and  add  it  to  the  lobster.  Gently  shuffle 
for  two  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  thickens  well.  Pour  it  into  a  hot 
tureen,  and  serve  hot. 


66 


58.  Lobster  tt  la  Bordelaise, 

Add  to  one  glassful  of  red  wine  in  a  stewpan  one  chopped  shallot, 
and  half  of  a  small  carrot  cut  into  exceedingly  small  pieces.  Boil  for 
five  minutes,  and  then  put  in  pieces  of  boiled  lobster,  the  same  quan- 
tity as  for  the  above — about  a  pound  and  a  half — a  pinch  of  salt,  a 
third  of  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  a  very  little  nutmeg,  also  half  a  pint  of 
veloute  (No.  119).  Stew  well  together  for  five  minutes,  and  then 
serve. 


67 


59-  Lobster  en  Brochette  au  Petit  Said, 

Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  fresh,  shelled,  boiled  lobster,  cut 
it  into  two-inch-square,  even  pieces,  lay  them  in  a  bowl,  then  season 
with  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  the  third  of  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Parisian  sauce,  and  mix  all  well  to- 
gether. Have  six  silver  skewers,  arrange  in  the  centre  of  one  a  piece 
of  lobster,  then  a  mushroom,  another  piece  of  lobster  and  another 
mushroom;  continue  the  same  for  the  other  skewers,  then  place  them 
on  the  broiler  and  broil  for  eight  minutes,  turning  them  over  carefully 
once  in  a  while.  Remove  them  from  the  broiler,  dress  them  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  a  gill  of  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  107)  over,  decorate  with 
six  slices  of  broiled  bacon,  and  serve  very  hot. 


68 


6o.  Lobster  en  Chevreuse, 

To  two  finely  chopped  shallots  ina  stewpan  add  one  glassful  of  Ma- 
deira wine,  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  pieces  of 
boiled  lobster;  moisten  with  one  pint  of  veloute  (No.  119),  and  season 
with  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg. 
Let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  and  with  this  preparation  fill  six  table  shells, 
or,  better  still,  six  small  St.  Jacques-shells;  on  top  of  each  lay  three 
slices  of  truffle  and  one  tablespoonful  of  good  bechamel  (No.  132). 
Put  one  drop  of  clarified  butter  over  each,  and  place  them  in  the  oven 
for  five  minutes.     Serve  very  hot  on  a  folded  napkin. 


69 


6i.   Broiled  Lobster  a  la  Ravigote. 

Cut  three  small,  raw  lobsters  into  two  equal  parts,  taking  out 
the  gravel  from  the  head,  season  with  one  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a 
pinch  of  pepper,  and  rub  with  a  very  little  oil,  then  broil  the  pieces  for 
ten  minutes.  Take  them  from  the  fire,  and  remove  the  meat  from  the 
head  of  the  lobsters  and  put  it  in  a  salad-bowl  with  half  a  pint  of  rav- 
igote butter  (No.  123),  and  mix  well  together;  take  the  meat  from  the 
balance  of  the  lobster,  dip  it  in  the  sauce,  and  return  it  to  its  shell; 
warm  again  for  two  minutes  in  the  oven,  then  serve  on  a  folded  nap- 
km,  garnishing  the  shells  with  parsley-greens,  and  serving  the  sauce 
in  a  sauce-bowl. 


62.  Lobster  Croquettes. 

Make  some  lobster  forcemeat  (No.  124);  form  it  into  the  shape  of 
six  pears  with  the  hand,  roll  them  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  very 
hot  fat  for  three  minutes;  drain  well,  then  serve  on  a  folded  napkin, 
garnishing  with  parsley-greens,  and  add  any  sauce  required  in  a 
sauce-bowl. 

Salmon  croquettes  to  be  prepared  the  same  way,  substituting 
minced  boiled  salmon  for  the  lobster  forcemeat. 


71 


63.    Lobster   Cutlets,   Victoria, 

The  same  as  for  No.  62,  only  giving  them   the   shape  of  a  chop, 
and  when  serving  stick  a  lobster  leg  in  the  point  of  each  one. 


72 


64.    Stuffed  Lobster. 

Fill  six  empty  lobster-tails  with  forcemeat  (No.  124),  roll  them  in 
bread-crumbs,  put  them  on  a  baking-dish,  smoothing  the  surface  with 
the  blade  of  a  knife;  place  them  in  a  baking-pan.  Pour  a  little  clar- 
ified butter  over,  and  brown  gently  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes,  and 
serve  on  a  folded  napkin  with  a  garnishing  of  parsley-greens. 


73 


65.  Fried  Soft-shelled   Crabs, 

Procure  six  good-sized,  live,  soft-shelled  crabs,  cleanse  and  wash 
them  thoroughly,  and  dip  each  one  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  ^%%^  and 
finally  in  rasped  bread-crumbs  or  pulverized  crackers,  using  them 
very  lightly.  Fry  in  very  hot  fat  for  five  minutes,  drain,  season  with 
one  pinch  of  salt,  evenly  divided,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  with  fried  parsley  around. 


74 


66.    Broiled  Soft-shelled  Crabs, 

Have  six  good-sized,  fresh,  soft-shelled  crabs,  cleanse  and  wash 
them  well,  then  drain  them,  oil  them  slightly,  and  season  with  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Put  them  on  the  broiler,  and  broil 
for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Have  six  pieces  of  toast  ready,  lay  a 
crab  on  top  of  each,  slightly  glaze  them  with  a  little  maitre  d'hotel 
butter  (No.  107),  and  serve.  This  makes  a  delicious  dish,  but  must 
be  served  very  hot. 


75 


67.    Hard-shelled  Crabs  it  la  Viable, 

Fill  six  thoroughly  cleaned  crab-shells  with  some  crab  forcemeat, 
which  is  made  same  way  as  lobster  forcemeat,  only  using  twelve  crabs 
instead  of  lobster,  flatten  them  with  the  hand,  besprinkle  with  fresh 
bread-crumbs,  smooth  the  surface  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  moisten- 
ing the  top  with  a  very  little  clarified  butter.  Place  them  on  a  baking- 
pan,  and  bake  a  little  brown  for  six  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  decorated  with  parsley-greens. 


76 


68.    Crabs  a  la  St.  Jean. 

Add  double  the  quantity  of  onions  to  some  crab  forcemeat,  also 
garlic,  parsley,  and  chervil  (let  the  crabs  be  in  as  large  pieces  as  pos- 
sible). Then,  as  for  No.  60,  fill  six  St.  Jacques-shells,  besprinkle 
with  fresh  bread-crumbs,  smooth  the  surface  with  the  blade  of  a  knife, 
moisten  slightly  with  clarified  butter,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  six 
minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorated  with 
parsley-greens. 


77 


69.    Crabs   a   la  St.   Laurent. 

Reduce  half  a  pint  of  good  veloute  (No.  119)  with  half  a  glassful 
of  white  wine,  season  with  one  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper, 
and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  adding  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  shelled  crabs, 
put  them  in  the  saucepan,  and  boil  them  for  ten  minutes;  then  lift 
from  the  fire  and  let  cool.  Prepare  six  squares  of  toasted  bread,  and 
with  a  knife  spread  some  of  the  mixture  smoothly  over  each  slice, 
sprinkle  well  with  grated  cheese,  and  moisten  slightly  with  clarified 
butter;  place  them  on  a  baking-dish;  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  for 
three  minutes,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  garnished 
with  parsley-greens. 


78 


yo.    Crabs  a  V Anglais e. 

Pick  twelve  boiled,  hard-shelled  crabs  in  as  large  pieces  as  possi- 
ble; mix  them  in  a  salad-bowl  with  half  a  cupful  of  the  white  of  cel- 
ery or  finely  shred  lettuce  leaves,  one  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar.  Refill  six  well-cleaned  shells  with  the  salad,  and  on 
each  one  lay  a  good  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise  sauce,  sprinkled  over 
with  one  hard-boiled,  finely  chopped  Qg<g,  the  yolk  and  white  separ- 
ated, some  crab  or  lobster  coral,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
every  article  to  be  used  separately,  so  they  have  each  a  different  color. 
Serve  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 


79 


71.  Fried  Oyster-Crabs. 

Wash  well,  and  dry  one  and  a  half  pints  of  oyster-crabs,  dip  them 
in  flour,  then  in  cold  milk,  and  finally  in  cracker-dust;  shake  them 
well  in  a  colander,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  for  three  minutes;  serve  in  shells 
made  of  foundation  paste,  or  short  paste  for  tarts,  garnish  with  parsley- 
leaves,  and  sprinkling  a  very  little  salt  on  top. 


80 


72.  Clams  it  la  Marinitre. 

Open  and  remove  thirty-six  small  clams  from  their  shells;  put  them 
in  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  one  pinch  of  chives,  and 
one  pinch  of  finely  chopped  chervil ;  add  half  a  cupful  of  water,  so 
they  will  not  be  too  salty,  with  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fresh  bread-crumbs.  Boil  for  two  minutes,  and  serve 
with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 


8i 


73-  Mussels  h   la   Marinilre. 

Steam  in  a  stewpan  thirty-six  mussels  for  ten  minutes,  and  proceed 
as  for  No.  72,  leaving  a  mussel  in  each  half  shell. 


82 


74*  Mussels  h   la  Potilette, 

Steam  in  a  stewpan  thirty-six  mussels  for  ten  minutes,  and  proceed 
the  same  as  oysters  a  la  poulette  (No.  78),  leaving  a  mussel  in  each 
half  shell. 


83 


75-  Fried  Oysters. 

Procure  twenty-four  large  freshly  opened  oysters,  or  thirty-six  of 
medium  size,  dip  each  one  separately  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  t%%^  and 
lastly  in  powdered  cracker-dust.  Fry  in  very  hot  fat  for  four  minutes, 
drain  well,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkling 
over  a  very  little  salt,  and  garnishing  with  fried  parsley-leaves. 


84 


76.  Oysters  k  la  Villeroi, 

Blanch  twenty-four  large  oysters  in  their  own  juice  for  two  minutes, 
then  drain  them;  take  some  chicken  forcemeat  (No.  125),  spread  it 
over  both  sides  of  the  oysters,  dip  in  t%g  and  fresh  bread-crumbs, 
then  fry  in  hot  lard  for  three  minutes,  and  serve  with  fried  parsley. 


85 


77.  Broiled    Oysters, 

Dip  twenty-four  large  and  freshly  opened  oysters  in  half  bread- 
crumbs and  half  cracker-dust;  flatten  them  with  the  hand,  and  broil 
them  on  a  well-greased  broiler  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  then  salt 
them  slightly,  and  serve  on  six  pieces  of  toast;  lightly  glaze  them  with 
maitre  d'hotel  sauce  on  top  (No.  112). 


86 


yS.  Oysters  a  la   Poulette, 

Put  thirty-six  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  of 
their  own  juice,  one  ounce  of  butter,  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the 
same  of  pepper;  parboil  for  three  minutes,  adding  half  a  pint  of  Hol- 
landaise  sauce  (No.  130),  stew  well  together  for  two  minutes  again, 
but  do  not  let  boil,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.     Stir  slightly,  and  serve. 


87 


79-   Oysters  en  Brochette  au  Petit  SalL 

Place  twenty-four  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  stewpan  with  their 
own  juice;  season  with  a  very  little  salt,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper;  par- 
boil for  two  minutes.  Take  six  skewers  and  pass  them  through  the 
oysters,  separating  each  one  by  a  small  square  of  cooked  bacon — that 
is,  alternating  each  oyster  with  a  piece  of  the  bacon — besprinkle  with 
grated,  fresh  bread-crumbs,  and  broil  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on 
each  side.  Serve  with  half  a  gill  of  maitre  d'hotel  sauce  (No.  112) 
poured  over,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley-leaves  spread  on  both  sides  of  the 
dish. 


88 


8o.   Oysters  a  la  Mali, 

Chop  an  onion  very  fine;  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  one  ounce  of 
butter,  and  let  it  get  a  good  golden  color,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
cooked,  finely  minced  spinach,  also  a  small  glassful  of  white  wine. 
Have  eighteen  medium-sized  oysters  chopped  exceedingly  small,  and 
seasoned  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  pepper;  place  these  in 
the  stewpan,  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Put  in  one  whole  ^g%^ 
also  a  bruised  clove  of  garlic;  stir;  then  take  six  large,  clean  oyster- 
shells;  fill  the  bottoms  with  a  bed  of  three  parboiled  oysters,  cover 
them  with  the  spinach  mixture,  and  besprinkle  with  fresh  bread- 
crumbs. Flatten  the  tops  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  pour  a  very  little 
clarified  butter  over,  and  put  them  for  three  minutes  in  the  oven. 
Serve  on  a  folded  napkin,  garnishing  with  parsley-leaves. 


89 


8i.  Oyster  Patties. 

Take  twenty-four  medium-sized  oysters  (the  least  salted  oysters 
are  better  for  this  purpose),  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  their  own 
liquor,  and  add  half  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Cover,  and  let  cook  for  two 
minutes;  then  take  half  the  liquor  out,  and  add  to  the  oysters  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  bechamel  sauce  (No.  132),  and  a  very  little  grated 
nutmeg;  simmer  for  two  minutes,  but  do  not  let  boil.  Take  six  hot 
patties,  fill  them  up  with  four  oysters  each,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and 
place  the  covers  on  top.     Serve  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 


90 


S2.  Stewed  Oysters  a  la  Baltimore, 

Open  neatly  thirty-six  medium-sized,  fresh  Rockaway  oysters; 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  without  their  juice,  adding  one  ounce  of 
good  butter;  cover  the  pan,  put  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  cook  for  two 
minutes,  then  add  a  small  glassful  of  good  Madeira  wine  (about  a 
cocktail  glass)  and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper.  Cook  together  for 
two  minutes  longer,  then  add  one  gill  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no) 
and  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  127).  Stir  thoroughly  until  boiling, 
and  just  before  serving  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  good  lemon;  add  half 
an  ounce  of  good  butter,  also  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley, 
and  serve  immediately  in  a  hot  tureen. 


91 


S^.  Soft   Clams  h  la  George  Merrill. 

Have  thirty-six  fresh  and  rather  small  soft  clams,  throw  away  all 
the  hard  part,  keeping  nothing  but  the  body.  Place  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  pinch  of  pepper,  a  finely  chopped 
shallot,  and  half  a  glassful  of  Madeira  wine.  Let  cook  on  the  hot 
stove  for  seven  minutes,  then  add  a  gill  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no), 
a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley,  the  juice  of  a  medium-sized,  good  lemon, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  good  butter,  shuffling  the  whole  well  for  three 
minutes  longer  without  letting  it  boil,  then  pour  the  clams  into  a  hot 
tureen,  and  serve. 


92 


84.   Soft   Clams  a  la  Newburg. 

Procure  forty-two  very  fresh,  soft  clams,  so  that  no  sand  should 
adhere  to  them  after  they  are  opened;  lay  them  carefully  in  the  palm 
of  the  left  hand,  and  with  the  fingers  of  the  right  remove  the  body 
gently,  but  nothing  else,  being  very  careful  not  to  break  it,  and  throw 
away  all  that  remains.  When  they  are  all  prepared,  place  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  good  butter,  half  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  a 
wine-glassful  of  good  Madeira  wine,  and  two  finely  hashed,  medium- 
sized  truffles.  Put  on  the  cover,  and  let  cook  gently  for  eight  min- 
utes. Break  three  tgg  yolks  into  a  bowl,  add  a  pint  of  sweet  cream; 
beat  well  for  three  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the  clams;  turn  well  the 
handle  of  the  saucepan  for  two  or  three  minutes,  very  gently  shuffling 
the  clams,  but  it  must  not  boil  again  or  the  clams  will  break,  and  be 
very  careful  not  to  use  either  a  spoon  or  fork.  Pour  them  into  a  hot 
tureen,  and  send  to  the  table  at  once. 

93 


85.   Canape  Lorenzo, 

Cut  out  from  an  American  bread  six  slices,  the  width  of  the 
bread,  one-quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness;  neatly  pare  off  the  crust, 
fry  them  in  a  sautoire  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  so  as  to  have 
them  of  a  light  brown  color.  Boil  eighteen  hard-shelled  crabs  in 
salted  water  for  twelve  minutes,  remove  them,  and  let  cool  until  they 
can  be  handled  with  bare  hands;  then  remove  the  upper  shell,  and 
with  the  aid  of  a  pointed  knife  pick  out  all  the  meat;  crack  both 
claws,  pick  the  meat  out  also;  place  the  meat  on  a  plate,  season  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  red  pepper.  Place  one 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  medium-sized,  sound,  peeled, 
and  very  finely  chopped-up  onion.  Cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for  two 
minutes,  being  very  careful  not  to  let  get  brown.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring  constantly  for  two  minutes;    then  add  one 


94 


gill  of  broth,  stir  well  again  for  five  minutes  while  slowly  cooking. 
Add  now  the  crab-meat,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  more,  lightly- 
stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  once  in  a  while.  Transfer  it  into  a  ves- 
sel, and  let  cool  for  fifteen  minutes.  Place  a  tablespoonful  of  good 
butter  in  a  sautoire  on  a  hot  stove,  mix  in  well  together  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  cook  very  slowly  for  three  minutes.  Add 
two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
grated  Swiss  cheese;  stir  all  well  together.  Then  place  in  a  vessel 
and  let  cool.  Place  a  layer  of  crab  forcemeat  on  each  toast  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick.  Divide  the  prepared  cheese,  etc.,  into  six  equal 
parts,  giving  them  a  ball-shaped  form  two  inches  in  diameter.  Ar- 
range them  over  the  layer  of  the  crab  forcemeat  right  in  the  centre. 
Place  them  on  a  silver  dish,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  five  minutes. 
Then  take  out  from  the  oven,  and  send  to  the  table  in  the  same  dish. 


95 


86.    Scallops   Brestoise. 

Blanch  in  one  ounce  of  butter  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  drain,  one 
pint  of  scallops;  chop  up  two  onions,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
an  ounce  of  butter;  when  brown  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir- 
ring carefully,  and  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  the  scallop  liquor;  if 
none,  white  broth  (No.  126)  will  answer.  Let  reduce  while  stirring, 
then  season  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  and  half  a  pinch  of  white  pep- 
per, also  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper;  add  the  chopped  scallops,  four 
egg-yolks,  and  a  bruised  clove  of  garlic,  also  half  a  cupful  of  fresh 
bread-crumbs,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Stir  well  for 
two  minutes,  then  put  it  in  a  dish  and  lay  aside  to  cool.  Fill  six 
scallop-shells,  or  St.  Jacques-shells  with  this,  besprinkle  the  tops  with 
fresh  bread-crumbs,  moisten  slightly  with  clarified  butter,  and  lay 
them  on  a  baking  sheet;  brown  them  nicely  in  the  oven  for  five  min- 
utes, and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  garnished  with 
parsley-leaves. 

96 


Sy.    Edible   Snails  a  la   Bourguignonne. 

Have  some  fine  Bourgogne  snails;  disgorge  them  well  with  a  little 
salt  for  two  or  three  days,  then  wash  them  several  times  in  cold  water, 
strain,  and  place  them  in  a  stewpan,  covering  them  with  water.  Add 
a  bouquet  (No.  io6 ),  some  cloves  and  whole  pepper  tied  in  a  cloth, 
and  sufficient  salt;  cook  until  the  snails  fall  from  their  shells,  and  then 
empty  them,  clipping  off  their  tails;  clean  the  shells  well.  Mix  to- 
gether some  good  butter,  shallots,  parsley,  and  chervil,  the  whole 
chopped  very  fine;  put  it  in  a  bowl  with  as  much  fresh  bread-crumbs, 
and  a  small  glassful  of  white  wine;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  knead  well.  Fill  each  shell  with  a  little  of  this  mixture,  re- 
place the  snails,  and  finish  filling  with  more  of  the  kneaded  butter, 
spread  bread-crumbs  over,  and  lay  them  on  a  baking-dish,  the  opened 
part  on  the  top.  Brown  in  the  oven  for  four  minutes,  and  serve  on  a 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 

97 


88.    Terrapin  a  la  Baltimore, 

Prepare  two  medium-sized  terrapins  as  for  No.  135,  make  half  a 
pint  of  mirepoix  (No.  128),  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  let  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  then  moisten  with  half  a  glassful  of  Madeira  wine, 
and  a  cupful  of  strong  broth.  Stir  well  and  constantly,  then  season 
with  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper;  reduce  to 
half.  Cut  the  terrapin  into  small  pieces,  throwing  the  ends  of  the 
claws  away;  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  straining  the  sauce  over,  and  fin- 
ish with  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  also  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 


98 


89.    Terrapin   ti   la   Maryland. 

Carefully  cut  up  two  terrapins  as  described  in  No.  135;  place  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  wine-glass  of  good  Madeira  wine,  half  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  also  an  ounce  of  good 
butter.  Mix  well  a  cupful  of  good,  sweet  cream  with  the  yolks  of 
three  boiled  eggs,  and  add  it  to  the  terrapin,  briskly  shuffling  con- 
stantly, while  thoroughly  heating,  but  without  letting  it  come  to  a  boil. 
Pour  into  a  hot  tureen,  and  serve  very  hot. 


99 


•  90.   Broiled  Frogs, 

Select  eighteen  good-sized,  fine,  fresh  frogs;  pare  off  the  feet 
neatly,  then  lay  the  frogs  on  a  dish,  and  pour  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  oil  over,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  fresh  lemon.  Roll  them  around  several 
times  in  their  seasoning,  then  place  them  nicely  on  the  broiler,  and 
broil  them  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Take  them  off,  and  dress 
them  on  a  hot  dish,  pouring  a  gill  of  maitre  d' hotel  butter  (No.  107) 
over,  and  send  to  the  table  immediately. 


100 


9^-   F'f^ogs   a   la   Poulette, 

Procure  eighteen  pieces  of  medium- sized,  fine,  fresh  frogs;  pare 
off  the  claws,  then  place  the  frogs  in  a  sautoire  with  two  ounces  of 
butter,  seasoning  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Add  half 
a  glassful  of  white  wine,  cover,  and  let  cook  on  a  brisk  stove  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  a  pint  of  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  130),  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  mix 
well  for  two  minutes,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  again;  then  serve  the  frogs 
on  a  very  hot  dish. 


lOI 


92.  Fried  Frogs. 

Select  eighteen  fine,  fresh,  medium-sized  frogs;  trim  off  the  claws 
neatly,  and  put  the  frogs  in  a  bowl.  Marinade  them  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  the  same  of  sweet  oil,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  pepper;  mix  well  together  in  the  bowl,  then  immerse  them  in  frying 
batter.  Plunge  the  frogs  into  very  hot  fat,  one  by  one,  and  let  fry 
for  five  minutes;  then  drain,  and  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  decorating  with  a  little  parsley-greens.  Serve  with  any  de- 
sired sauce. 


I02 


93*   Broiled  Shads   RoCy    with   Bacon, 

Procure  six  pieces  of  fresh  shad's  roe,  wipe  them  thoroughly  with 
a  towel,  then  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  season  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil.  Roll  them  gently  to  avoid  break- 
ing, then  arrange  them  on  a  broiler,  and  broil  them  for  six  minutes  on 
each  side.  Take  them  off  the  fire,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour 
a  gill  of  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  107)  over;  decorate  with  six  slices 
of  broiled  bacon,  and  six  quarters  of  lemon;  then  send  to  the  table. 


103 


94-  Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast. 
Select  twelve  good-sized,  fine,  and  firm  sardines;  arrange  them  in 
a  double  broiler,  and  broil  for  two  minutes  on  each  side  on  a  very 
brisk  fire.  Place  six  fresh,  dry  toasts  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  sardines 
over,  being  careful  not  to  break  them,  pour  half  a  gill  of  maitre 
d'hotel  butter  (No.  107)  over,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of  lemon, 
and  serve. 


104 


95-  S(^li  Mackerel  h  la   Whitmore, 

Have  two  fine,  medium- sized,  sound  salt  mackerel.  Let  them 
soak  in  plenty  of  cold  water  for  at  least  eighteen  hours,  changing  the 
water  two  or  three  times.  Take  out  and  thoroughly  dry;  remove  the 
back  bone  of  each.  Arrange  them  on  a  well-oiled  fish-broiler,  split 
part  upward,  and  then  with  a  hair  brush  gently  oil  the  surface.  Place 
them  on  a  very  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes,  on  the  split  side,  and  two 
minutes  on  the  skin  side.  Remove  them  from  the  broiler,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  half  a  gill  of  drawn  butter  over,  decorate  the  dish  with 
one  lemon  cut  in  quarters  and  some  parsley  greens,  and  send  to  the 
table. 


105 


96.  Fried  White-Bait, 

Have  one  pound  of  fine  fresh  white-bait,  thoroughly  wash  them  in 
cold  water;  the  water  in  which  they  are  washed  must  be  very  cold,  a 
piece  of  ice  can  even  be  added  to  it,  so  as  to  keep  them  firm;  thor- 
oughly drain,  then  inclose  them  in  a  dry  towel  and  lightly  shake  them 
so  as  to  thoroughly  dry.  Dip  them  in  cold  milk.  Mix  together  two 
cups  of  cracker-dust  with  one  cupful  of  flour,  roll  the  white-bait  into 
this,  and  then  fry  them  in  a  very  hot  fat  for  one  minute  only.  Re- 
move, and  thoroughly  drain,  sprinkle  over  a  tablespoonful  of  salt 
equally  divided.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  im- 
mediately send  to  the  table. 

White-bait  should  never  be  prepared  in  advance,  except  one  min- 
ute before  the  time  of  serving,  as  they  are  very  easily  spoiled. 


io6 


97-  Oysters  Scalloped  a  la  Baltimore. 

Have  three  dozen  good-sized,  fine,  freshly  opened  box  oysters,  put 
them  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  and 
entirely  suppress  their  liquor,  seeing  that  they  are  almost  dry.  Have 
six  small  silver  scallop-shells,  lightly  butter  the  interior  of  each,  then 
evenly  spread  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh  bread-crumbs  in  each  shell, 
gently  lay  six  oysters  in  each  shell  over  the  crumbs,  and  then  sprinkle 
a  tablespoonful  of  bread-crumbs  on  the  oysters  in  each  shell;  place 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  good  butter  in  the  centre  of  each  shell;  place 
them  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  bake  for  fully  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  they 
have  obtained  a  good  golden  color.  Remove  them  from  the  oven. 
Dress  the  six  shells  on  a  hot  serving-dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and 
send  to  the  table. 


107 


98.    Terrapin  a  la  Robert  Bonner. 

Have  two  fine  diamond-back  terrapin  prepared  the  same  as  in  No. 
135.  Suppress  the  claws  as  well  as  the  galls,  then  cut  them  into  very- 
small  even  pieces. 

Have  a  well-cleaned  chafing-dish,  light  the  jets  of  the  alcohol 
lamp,  pour  into  the  water  pan  sufficient  boiling  water  to  fill  it  up  to 
half  its  height.  Arrange  the  dish  over  the  water  pan,  place  in  the 
dish  half  an  ounce  of  very  good  fresh  butter,  and  then  put  in  the 
terrapin  also.  Season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  moisten  with  a  gill  of  very  good  Madeira 
wine  (the  older  the  better),  tightly  place  the  cover  of  the  chafing-dish 


108 


on,  and  then  reduce  the  wine  to  one-half,  which  will  take  fifteen  min- 
utes without  disturbing  it. 

Beat  up,  in  a  bowl,  the  yolks  of  four  fresh  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  cream.  Remove  the  cover  from  the  chafing-dish,  then  pour  in 
the  beaten-up  eggs  and  cream,  gently  shuffle  the  dish,  so  as  to  mix  all 
well  together,  arrange  the  cover  on  again,  and  let  gently  simmer  for 
twenty-five  minutes  longer,  gently  shuffling  the  dish  containing  the 
terrapin  every  five  minutes.  Extinguish  the  light  of  the  lamp  and 
send  to  the  table. 


109 


99-    Terrapin  in  Chafing-Dish  a  la  Maryland. 

Prepare  the  terrapin  exactly  in  the  same  manner  as  No.  98,  only 
substituting  four  hard-boiled  egg-yolks  for  the  four  fresh  ones,  and 
serving  the  same. 


no 


lOO.  Oysters  a  la  L.  Pomeroy. 

Have  two  dozen  of  rather  good-sized,  fine,  freshly  opened  oysters, 
suppress  their  liquor,  then  place  them  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  with 
half  an  ounce  of  very  good  butter;  gently  boil  them  for  three  minutes, 
then  add  half  a  wineglassful  of  good  old  Madeira  wine,  let  the  wine 
reduce  one-half.  Break  into  a  bowl  four  fresh  egg-yolks,  with  half  a 
pint  of  sweet  cream,  then  with  the  wire  whip  thoroughly  beat  them  up, 
and  then  add  it  to  the  oysters,  continually  and  briskly  stirring  while 
adding  it;  let  all  cook  for  three  minutes,  briskly  stirring  meanwhile. 
Remove  from  off  the  fire,  pour  into  a  hot  deep  dish  or  tureen  and 
send  to  the  table. 


Ill 


APPENDIX. 


101.  Oyster  Sauce.— Open  eighteen  medium-sized,  fine  Shrewsbury  oysters, 
and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  of  good  butter,  placing  the  pan  on  the 
stove.  Cook  for  four  minutes;  remove  half  the  liquid  from  the  pan  and  add  a  pint 
of  hot  Allemande  sauce  (No.  114).  Then  with  the  spatula  mix  lightly  together  with- 
out allowing  it  to  boil,  and  serve. 

102.  Sauce  Colbert.— Put  in  a  saucepan  half  a  pint  of  very  thick  Madeira  sauce 
(No.  127);  add  to  it  very  gradually  one  ounce  of  good,  fresh  butter,  also  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  meat-glaze  (No.  103).  Mix  well  together  without  boiling;  then  squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  half  a  soimd  lemon,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  when 
serving. 

103.  Meat  Glaze— Glace  de  Yiande.— As  this  meat  glaze,  when  properly 
made,  will  keep  in  perfect  condition  for  any  length  of  time,  I  would  advise  that  half 
a  pint  be  made  at  a  time,  in  the  following  manner.  Place  in  a  large  saucepan  ten 
quarts  of  white  broth  (No.  126),  or  nine  quarts  of  consomme,  and  reduce  it  on  a  mod- 
erate fire  for  fully  four  hours,  at  which  time  it  should  be  reduced  to  half  a  pint.  Trans- 
fer it  in  a  stone  jar  or  bowl ;  put  a  cover  on,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  general  use. 

104.  Sauce  a  la  Genoise. — Strain  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  mirepoix 
(No.  128),  and  moisten  it  with  half  a  glassful  of  red  wine;  reduce  to  half  on  the  hot 
stove,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  (No.  no),  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  broth 

113 


(No.  126),  and  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  pepper.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  then  strain 
through  a  sieve;  put  in  half  an  ounce  of  good  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy 
sauce  (No.  105),  and  serve. 

105.  Anchovy  Saiice. — To  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  drawn-butter  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  anchovy  essence;  beat  well  together  and  serve. 

106.  A  Bouquet.— how  to  prepare.— Take  four  branches  of  well-washed 
parsley-stalks — if  the  branches  be  small,  take  six— one  branch  of  soup-celery,  well 
washed;  one  blade  of  bay-leaf,  one  sprig  of  thyme,  and  two  cloves,  placed  in  the 
centre  of  the  parsley,  so  as  to  prevent  cloves,  thyme,  and  bay-leaf  from  dropping  out 
of  the  bouquet  while  cooking;  fold  it  well,  and  tightly  tie  with  a  string,  and  use  when 
required  in  various  recipes. 

107.  Butter,  maitre  d'hotel.— Put  one  ounce  of  good  butter  in  a  bowl  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  very  finely  chopped  parsley,  adding  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon. 
Mingle  well  with  a  very  little  nutmeg,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place  to  use  when  needed. 

108.  Shrimp  Sauce.— Place  half  an  ounce  of  shrimp  butter  (No.  129)  in  half  a 
pint  of  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  130);  stir  well  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and  when 
ready  to  serve  add  twelve  picked  shrimp  tails  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Heat 
without  boiling,  and  serve. 

.109.  Potatoes  a  PAnglaise.— Wash  well  six  good-sized  potatoes;  boil  them  in 
salted  water  for  forty-five  minutes;  peel,  and  cut  them  each  into  quarters.  Melt  an 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  the  sliced  potatoes,  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the 
third  of  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Cook  them  on  a  very  slow  fire  for  five  minutes,  tossing 
them  well,  and  serve  on  a  very  hot  dish,  sprinkling  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  them. 

110.  Sance  Espatrnole— for  one  gallon,— Mix  one  pint  of  raw,  strong  mirepoix 
(No.  128)  with  two  ounces  of  good  fat  (chicken's  fat  is  preferable).     Mix  with  the 

114 


compound  four  ounces  of  flour,  and  moisten  with  one  gallon  of  white  broth  (No. 
126).  Stir  well,  and  then  add,  if  handy,  some  baked  veal  and  ham  bones.  Boil  for 
three  hours,  and  then  remove  the  fat  very  carefully ;  rub  the  sauce  through  a  very 
fine  sieve,  and  keep  it  for  many  purposes  in  cooking. 

111.  Forcemeat  Quenelles  of  Fish. — Select  one  pound  of  firm  fish  (bass  is 
preferable),  remove  the  skin  and  take  out  the  bones.  Pound  it  well  in  a  mortar,  add- 
ing the  whites  of  three  eggs  a  little  at  a  time.  When  well  pounded  add  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  white  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Mix 
well,  and  use  when  needed. 

112.  Sauce  maitre  d'hotel,  liee. — Add  to  half  a  pint  of  warm  Hollandaise 
sauce  (No.  130),  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  scant 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg;  then  serve. 

113.  Cooked  Fine  Herbs.— Chop  up  one  sound  onion  and  two  well-peeled  shal- 
lots ;  brown  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  for  five  minutes,  then  add 
double  the  quantity  of  finely  minced  mushrooms  and  a  grain  of  garlic;  season  with 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  finish  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley.     Cook  ten  minutes  longer,  and  then  let  it  cool. 

114.  Sauce  AJleniande. — Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  on  a  slow 
fire,  with  three  tablespoon fuls  of  flour  to  thicken.  Stir  well,  not  letting  it  brown; 
then  moisten  with  one  pint  of  white  broth  (No.  126),  beating  constantly,  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes.  Dilute  three  egg-yolks  separately  in  a  bowl ;  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  eggs,  a  very  little  at  a  time;  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer,  and  finish  with 
half  an  ounce  of  good  butter  and  tiie  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  boil  a  second  time. 

115 


115.  Potato  Croquettes  and  (jiienelles.— Peel,  wash,  and  drain  nicely  eight 
medium-sized  mealy  potatoes;  cut  them  in  quarters,  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
them  with  water,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  cook  for  thirty  minutes,  and  drain.  Lay  them 
in  a  mortar  with  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  pound  them  well,  and  add  three  raw  egg- 
yolks.  Season  with  half  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper  and  the  third  of  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg;  mix  well,  and  then  divide  into  twelve  parts,  shaping  each  one  like  a  cork, 
or  any  other  shape  desired.  Dip  them  separately  into  beaten  egg,  and  roll  them  in 
fresh  bread-crumbs;  fry  a  golden  color  for  three  minutes,  and  serve  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin. 

116.  Croutons  for  Soups. — Cut  some  dice-shaped  pieces  of  bread,  and  fry  them 
in  a  pan  with  clarified  butter;  when  a  rich  golden  color,  drain. 

117.  White-Roux. — Put  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  place  it  on  the 
corner  of  the  hot  range,  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  keep  stirring  constantly 
for  seven  minutes.  Then  let  it  cool,  and  when  cold,  use  in  various  sauces,  as  directed. 

118.  Cuisson  de  Poisson— Fish  Broth.  For  One  Gallon.— Fill  a  saucepan 
with  three  quarts  of  water,  a  good  handful  of  salt,  half  a  glassful  of  vinegar,  one  car- 
rot, and  one  onion  (both  sliced),  half  a  handful  of  whole  peppers,  one  bunch  of  pars- 
ley-roots, three  sprigs  of  thyme,  and  three  bay-leaves.  Cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for 
fifteen  minutes.     Cool,  and  use  when  needed  for  various  methods  of  cooking  fish. 

119.  Sauce  Veloute. — Melt  one  ounce  of  good  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  well,  not  letting  it  get  brown.  Moisten  with  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  good  veal  and  chicken  stock,  the  stronger  the  better.  Throw  in  a  gar- 
nished bouquet  (No.  io6),  half  a  cupful  of  mushroom  liquor,  if  at  hand,  six  whole  pep- 
pers, half  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg.    Boil  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring 

ii6 


continuously  with  a  wooden  spatula ;  then  remove  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  skim  thor- 
oughly, and  let  it  continue  simmering  slowly  for  one  hour.  Then  rub  through  a  fine 
sieve.     This  sauce  will  make  the  foundation  for  any  kind  of  good  white  stock. 

1 20.  Sauce  Chambord.— Place  one  truffle  and  three  mushrooms,  shced  very  thin, 
in  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no),  adding  three  tablespoon fuls  of  bouillon, 
six  fish  quenelles  (No.  in),  and  twelve  medium-sized,  whole,  blanched  oysters. 
Cook  slowly  for  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

121.  Potatoes,  Parisienne.— Take  six  good-sized,  well-cleansed  potatoes;  with 
a  round  vegetable-spoon  cut  out  the  Parisian  potatoes;  then  put  them  in  fresh  water; 
wash  well,  and  drain.  Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sautoire,  throw  in  the  potatoes, 
and  season  with  half  a  pinch  of  salt.  Place  the  sautoire  in  the  oven ;  cook  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 

122.  Sauce  Italienne. — Brown  two  medium-sized,  fine,  peeled,  and  chopped- 
up  shallots  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter,  adding  half  an  ounce 
cf  cooked,  lean  ham  cut  into  small  dice  shape,  four  minced  mushrooms,  one  finely 
minced  truffle,  and  a  glassful  of  Madeira  wine.  Let  all  cook  together  for  five  minutes; 
then  add  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  sauce  (No.  no);  let  it  then  come  to  a  boil,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

123.  Butter  a  la  Ravig;ote.— Pound  together  in  a  mortar  one  sprig  of  parsley, 
the  same  of  tarragon,  very  little  chives,  the  same  of  chervil,  and  one  small,  peeled 
shallot.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  one  ounce  of  good  butter,  and 
half  a  drop  of  spinach-green.  Rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place 
for  general  use. 

117 


124,  Lobster  Forcemeat. — Fry  an  onion,  chopped  very  fine,  in  one  ounce  of 
good  butter  until  it  is  of  a  golden  brown  color,  adding  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  to 
make  a  roux  (No.  117).  Moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  white  stock  (No.  131),  stirring 
well  and  constantly  until  the  sauce  hardens.  Season  with  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
a  scant  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  the  same  of  cayenne,  one  tablespoonful  of  Eng- 
lish sauce,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  crushed  grain  of  garlic,  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  chopped  parsley.  Stir  well,  adding  two  pounds  of  cooked  lobster,  cut  up  very 
fine,  with  twelve  mushrooms,  also  chopped.  Cook  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  saucepan, 
then  put  it  back  off  the  hot  fire;  add  four  egg-yolks,  stir  again  for  a  moment,  cool, 
and  serve  when  required. 

125,  Chicken  Forcemeat. — Cut  in  large  pieces  two  raw  chicken  breasts,  pound 
them  in  a  mortar,  adding  the  same  quantity  of  bread  soaked  in  milk,  a  teaspoonful 
of  fresh  butter  and  four  egg-yolks,  seasoning  with  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  scant 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Mix  all  together;  strain,  and 
put  it  in  a  bowl  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  veloute  sauce  (No.  119). 

126,  White  Broth,— Place  in  a  large  stock -urn  on  a  moderate  fire  a  good  heavy 
knuckle  of  a  fine  white  veal  with  all  the  debris,  or  scraps  of  meat,  including  bones, 
remaining  in  the  kitchen  (but  not  of  game);  cover  fully  with  cold  water,  adding  a 
handful  of  salt;  and  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  be  very  careful  to  skim  all  the  scum  off— no 
particle  of  scum  should  be  left  on — and  then  put  in  two  large,  sound,  well-scraped 
carrots  (whole),  one  whole,  cleaned,  sound  turnip,  one  whole,  peeled,  large,  sound 
onion,  one  well-cleaned  parsley  root,  three  thoroughly  washed  leeks,  and  a  lew  leaves 
of  cleaned  celery.  Boil  very  slowly  for  six  hours  on  the  corner  of  the  range;  keenly 
skim  the  grease  off ;  then  strain  well  through  a  wet  cloth  into  a  china  bowl  or  a  stone 
jar,  and  put  it  away  in  a  cool  place  for  general  use. 

118 


127.  Sauce  Demi-Glace,  or  Madeira.— Add  one  small  glassful  of  mushroom 
liquor  to  one  pint  of  good  Espagnole  sajiice  (No.  no);  also  a  small  glassful  of  Madeira 
wine,  a  bouquet  (No.  io6),  and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Remove  the  fat  care- 
fully and  cook  for  thirty  minutes,  leaving  the  sauce  in  a  rather  liquid  state;  then 
strain  and  use  when  needed.     This  takes  the  place  of  all  Madeira  sauces. 

128.  JMirepoix.— Stew  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  fat,  two  carrots,  one  onion, 
one  sprig  of  thyme,  one  bay-leaf,  six  whole  peppers,  three  cloves,  and,  if  handy,  a 
ham  bone  cut  into  pieces.  Add  two  sprigs  of  celery  and  half  a  bunch  of  parsley 
roots;  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  use  when  directed  in  other  recipes.  Scraps  of 
baked  veal  may  also  be  added,  if  at  hand. 

129.  Shrimp  Butter. — Pick  the  meat  from  the  tails  of  twelve  boiled  shrimps; 
dry  the  shells,  and  pound  them  all  together  in  a  mortar,  adding  one  ounce  of  good 
butter;  then  place  it  in  a  saucepan  on  a  moderate  fire,  stirring,  until  it  clarifies,  for 
about  five  minutes;  then  strain  through  a  napkin,  lettin^it  drop  into  cold  water. 
When  it  is  congealed,  take  it  out,  and  place  it  in  a  warm  oasin,  stirring  until  it  as- 
sumes the  desired  color. 

130.  Sauce  HoUandaise.— Place  one  sound,  sliced  onion,  six  whole  peppers 
and  a  bay-leaf  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  of  good  butter  on  the  hot  stove;  stir 
in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  thicken,  then  moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  either 
chicken  or  white  broth  (No.  126);  mix  well  with  a  whisk  or  wooden  spatula,  being 
careful  to  remove  any  accumulated  fat.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg 
and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  cook  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  separately  with  the  juice  of  half  a  medium-sized  sound  lemon.  Pour  them 
gradually  into  the  sauce,  being  careful  not  to  boil  it  again  after  they  have  been  add- 

119 


ed.     Rub  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  serving  bowl,  and  finish  with  half  an  ounce  of 
good  butter,  mixing  it  well,  and  serve. 

131.  White  stock — for  one  gallon. — Reduce  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  range, 
one  ounce  of  very  good,  finely  shred,  salt  pork,  previously  well  washed,  and  the 
same  of  beef  suet.  Add  one  carrot,  one  onion,  a  bouquet  of  aromatic  herbs  (No.  ic6), 
twelve  whole  peppers,  and  four  cloves.  Brown  these  well  on  a  moderate  fire  for  four 
minutes.  Add  four  ounces  of  flour;  stir  well,  and  moisten  with  a  glassful  of  white, 
wine  and  three  quarts  of  white  broth  (No,  126),  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and 
stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  let  it  cook  thoroughly  for  one  hour;  strain  through  a 
fine  sieve.     This  stock  should  be  used  without  any  further  thickening. 

132.  Bechamel  Sauce.— Place  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  butter,  add  two 
tablespoon fuls  of  flour,  and  stir  constantly  for  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  boiling  milk,  being  careful  to  pour  it  in  gradually;  then  beat  it  well  with  a 
whisk.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  130),  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  anchovy  essence;  b&t  well  together  and  serve. 

133.  Bearnaise  Sance. — Chop  very  fine  two  medium-sized,  sound,  well-peeled 
shallots;  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  on  the  hot  range,  with  two  tablespoon  fuls 
of  either  tarragon  or  chervil  vinegar,  and  five  whole  crushed  peppers.  Reduce  until 
nearly  dry,  then  put  away  to  cool.  Mingle  with  it  six  fresh  raw  egg-yolks,  sharply 
stirring  meanwhile,  then  gradually  add  one  and  a  half  ounce  of  good  fresh  butter, 
seasoning  with  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  and 
twelve  finely  chopped  sound  tarragon  leaves.  Have  a  much  wider  pan  on  the  fire 
with  boiling  water,  place  the  small  one  containing  the  ingredients  into  the  other,  and 
see  that  the  boiling  water  reaches  up  to  half  its  height;   thoroughly  heat  up,  beating 

120 


briskly  with  the  whisk;  when  the  sauce  is  firm  add  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  meat- 
glaze  (No.  103),  beat  lightly  for  two  seconds  longer,  then  strain  through  an  ordinary, 
clean  kitchen  towel,  neatly  arrange  the  sauce  on  a  hot  dish  to  be  sent  to  the  table, 
and  dress  over  it  any  article  required  to  be  served. 

134  Cream  Sauce. — Take  half  a  pint  of  bechamel  sauce  (No.  132);  add  half  an 
ounce  of  butter,  and  beat  them  together  carefully,  adding  half  a  cupful  of  sweet 
cream.     Then  serve. 

135.  Terrapin— hOTT  to  prepare  it. — Take  live  terrapin,  and  blanch  them  in 
boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Remove  the  skin  from  the  feet,  and  put  them  back 
to  cook  with  some  salt  in  the  saucepan  until  they  feel  soft  to  the  touch;  then  put 
them  aside  to  cool.  Remove  the  carcass,  cut  it  in  medium-sized  pieces,  removing 
the  entrails,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  gall-bag.  Put  the  pieces  in  a  smaller 
saucepan,  adding  two  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  according  to  the 
quantity,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  glassful  of  Madeira  wine.  Cook  for  five 
minutes,  and  put  it  away  in  the  ice-box  for  further  use. 


There  are  over  fifteen  hundred  original  recipes,  besides 
over  a  thousand  menus,  in  "The  Table,"  by  Filippini,  of 
Delmonico's.  There  are  also  special  departments  devoted  to 
the  following  subjects:  "Our  Markets,  and  the  Varieties  of 
Food  to  be  Found  in  Them  in  the  Different  Months  of  the 
Year;"  "How  to  Set  a  Table;"  "How  to  Serve  Meals;" 
"  How  to  Carve  ;  "  and  "  Table  Etiquette." 

Your  bookseller  will  supply  it  to  you  for  $2.50.  If  your 
bookseller  does  not  keep  it,  we  will  send  it  by  express,  pre- 
paid, to  any  address  on  receipt  of  $2.50. 


BOOKS  BY  A.  FILIPPINI 


"ONE   HUNDRED   RECIPES  FOR  COOK- 
ING AND  SERVING  FISH."      This  little  book 

contains  the  best  recipes  that  Mr.  Filippini  has  used  during  his  twenty- 
five  years'  experience  with  the  celebrated  house  of  Delmonico's.  It 
includes  recipes  for  preparing,  cooking,  and  serving  Salmon,  Trout, 
Halibut,  Soles,  Skates,  Shad,  Mackerel,  Eels,  Bluefish,  Sheepshead, 
Bass,  Cod,  Codfish-tongues,  Smelts,  Lobsters,  Crabs,  Oysters,  Clams, 
Terrapin,  Frogs,  Whitebait,  Sardines;  in  fact,  all  varieties  of  fish. 
The  book  is  very  tastefully  gotten  up,  one  recipe  being  printed  on 
each  page.  The  paper  is  supercalendered,  and  the  book  is  bound  in 
turned  cloth,  with  an  appropriate  design  in  colors,  with  gold  title. 
The  price  is  fifty  cents. 


**ONE   HUNDRED   WAYS    OF    COOKING 
EGGS/'     Mr.  Filippini  is  probably  the  only  one  who 

can  cook  eggs  in  a  hundred  different  ways,  and  this  book  will  be 
worth  ten  times  its  price  to  any  purchaser.  Unlike  most  of  his  guild, 
who  jealously  guard  every  secret  of  their  craft,  Mr,  Filippini  has  at 
last  been  persuaded  to  admit  the  world  into  the  inner  sanctuary  of 
his  art,  to  describe  to  a  hand's  turn,  and  without  reserve,  exactly 
how  those  marvelous  triumphs  of  his  art  have  been  achieved.  Uni- 
form in  every  respect  with  **  One  Hundred  Recipes  for  Fish." 
Fifty  cents. 

i*THE  TABLE/'     "How  to  Buy  Food,  How  to 

Cook  It,  and  How  to  Serve  It."  8vo,  505  pages.  Bound  in  oil-cloth, 
$2.50;  full  seal  Russia  (Presentation  Edition),  $4.50.  (See  adver- 
tisement on  next  page.)  • 


THE   TABLK: 

^om  to  iStig  iboir,  ^oto  to  €ook  3t,  anb  ^otD  to  0ert)c  3t 

By  ALESSANDRO  FILIPPINI,  of  Delmonico's. 

For  Twenty-five  years  Mr.  Filippini  has  been  with  Delmonico,  and  until  recently  was 
Manager  of  the  branch  house  at  341  Broadway. 

365    BREA.K:r"iL©TS.  365    1L.XJ1VCHEON8. 

365    I>IN]VEI1©. 

134  Recipes  for  SOUPS  ;   Nearly  100  SAUCES  ;    102  Ways  of  Cooking  EGGS ; 
40  SALADS;   Over  300  DESSERTS,  Etc.,  Etc. 


This  work  is  endorsed  by  the  Delmonicos.  Mr.  Filippini's  experience  in  Cul- 
inary Art  is  probably  greater  than  any  living  man's.  The  results  of  a  lifetime 
of  careful  study  are  here  embodied. 

It  is  infinitely  greater  than  a  mere  cook-book,  for  while  it  gives  many  more 
recipes  than  any  other  work  of  the  kind  ever  published,  at  the  same  time  it  con- 
tains invaluable  advice  as  to  how  to  buy  what  is  best  and  most  economical,  and 
how  to  dress  a  table  and  serve  meals.  In  large  families  the  price  of  the  work 
can  be  saved  daily  by  following  Mr.  Filippini's  suggestions.  One  of  the  excep- 
tional features  of  this  book  is  the  fact  that  it  is  adapted  to  the  humblest  as  well 
as  to  the  grandest  style  of  living.  No  matter  where  placed,  it  will  pay  for 
itself  many  times  over. 

DDTrT^Q.  i  Presentation  Edition,  in  Full  Seal  Russia,  Marbled  Edges,       $4.50 
*^**^'"^*-lKitchenEdition,  in  Oil-Cloth,  ...  -         8.50 

CHARLES  L  WEBSTER  &  CO.,  Publishers,  67  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York  City. 


Iban&i?  IDolume  eullnar?  Scries. 

flo.  3. 


©ne  Ibunbreb  H)e88ert6, 


ONE   HUNDRED   DESSERTS 


BY 

FILIPPINI 

(twenty-five  years  with  delmonico) 


NEW  YORK  AND  BOSTON 
H.  M.  CALDWELL    COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 


Copyright,  iSg^, 
By  Charles  L.  Webster  &  Co. 

(^All  rights  reserved.) 


Colonial  l|ress : 

Electrotyped  and  Printed  by  C.  H.  Simonds  &  Co. 
Boston,  U.  S.  A. 


NOTE 


The  recipes  referred  to  in  the  •*  One  Hundred  Desserts "  will  be  found 
in  the  Appendix. 


CONTENTS, 


No, 


PAGE 

Feuillet^e,  or  Puff  Paste 9 

Peach  Tarts 10 

Pineapple  Tarts 13 

Strawberry  Tarts 13 

Apple  Tarts 14 

Hard  Sauce 15 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings 16 

BakedApples i8 

Boiled  Peach  Dumplings 18 

Rice  Pudding  with  Orange 20 

Sauce  a  I'Anglaise  a  I'Orange 22 

Bread  Pudding,  Cream  Sauce 23 

Cream  Sauce 34 

Cold  Maraschino  Pudding 24 

English  Pudding,  Baked 27 

Sabayon  Sauce  au  Mad^re 28 

Sago  Pudding 29 

Tapioca  Pudding 30 

Chocolate  Pudding 31 

Cocoanut  Pudding 32 

Pineapple  Pudding  k  la  Richelieu 33 

Sauce  au  Kirsch 34 

Apple  Pudding  a  I'Helvetienne 35 

Sauce  Chaufausen, 36 

Custard  Pudding 37 

Lemon  Pudding,  Cream  Sauce 38 


No.  PAGE 

27.  Orange  Pudding 39 

28.  Fruit  Pudding,  Rum  Sauce 40 

29.  Rum  Sauce 41 

30.  PlumPudding 42 

31.  Caramel  Pudding 44 

32.  Apple  Charlotte 44 

33.  Small  Apple  Charlottes 46 

34.  Apples  with  Rice 46 

35.  Riz  aux  Pommes  k  la  Bonne  Femme. ...  48 

36.  Turban  of  Apples  au  Riz 49 

37.  Rice  with  Milk 50 

38.  Rice  a  la  Turque 51 

39.  Rice  k  la  Frangaise 52 

40.  Rice  k  la  Conde 53 

41.  Wheat  Cakes 54 

42.  Batter  for  all  Kinds  of  Frying 55 

43.  French  Pancakes 56 

44.  French  Pancakes  k  la  Gelee 57 

45.  German  Pancakes 58 

46.  German  Pnncakes  with  Apples. 59 

47.  Batter  for  Fritters 60 

48.  Apple  Fritters 61 

49.  Fritters  Souffles  a  la  Vanille 62 

50.  Pound  Cake 63 

51.  Wedding  Cake 64 

52.  Sponge  Cake 66 


CONTENTS. 


No.  PAGE 

53.  Waffles  with  Sugar 67 

54.  How  to  Peel  and  Pound  Almonds 68 

55.  Bitter  Almond  Macaroons 68 

56.  Gingerbread  a  la  Frangaise ,  70 

57.  Home-made  Cake 71 

58.  Rice  Cake 72 

59.  Almond  Cake 73 

60.  Biscuits  a  la  Cuill^re,  or  Lady-fingers. .  74 

61.  Meringues 76 

62.  Apples  Meringuees 77 

63.  Creme  Renversee 78 

64.  Creme  en  Mousse  au  Cafe 79 

65.  Whipped  Cream  a  la  Vanille 80 

66.  Charlotte  Russe  a  la  Creme 81 

67.  Coffee  Essence 82 

68.  Vanilla  Ice-cream 83 

69.  Chocolate  Ice-cream 85 

70.  Coffee  Ice-cream 86 

71.  Strawberry  Ice-cream 87 

72.  Pistache  Ice-cream 88 

73.  Peach  Ice-cream 89 

74.  Lemon  Ice-cream 90 

75.  Lemon  Water-ice 91 

76.  Orange  Water-ice 92 

77.  Raspberry  Water-ice 93 

78.  Pineapple  Water-ice 94 

79.  Macaroon  Ice-cream 95 


No.  PAGE 

80.  Napolitaine  Ice-cream 96 

81.  Tutti-Frutti 97 

82.  Plombiere  k  la  Kingman 98 

83.  Punch  a  la  Lorenzo  Delmonico 99 

84.  Romaine  Punch loi 

85.  Punch  a  la  Cardinal loi 

86.  Champagne  Punch 102 

87.  Punch  en  Surprise 103 

88.  Punch  a  la  Frangaise,  Hot 104 

89.  Punch  a  la  Czarina,  Hot 105 

90.  Champagne  Cup 106 

91.  Claret  Cup 107 

92.  Sherry-wine  Jelly 108 

93.  Kirsch  Jelly no 

94.  How  to  Make  Black  Coffee in 

95.  Cafe  au  Lait  (Coffee  with  Milk) 112 

96.  Cafe  Glace  (Iced  Coffee) 113 

97.  The  a  la  Russe  (Russian  Tea) 114 

98.  How  to  Make  Chocolate 115 

99.  Egg-Nog 116 

100.  Chanipagne  Punch ,,. 117 

APPENDIX. 

loi.  Glace  Royal  for  Allumettes 119 

102.  Burned  Sugar 120 

103.  Stewed  Apples i2x 


I.  Feuilletage,  or  Puff  Paste. 

Have  ready  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  fresh  butter,  one 
pint  of  ice-water,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  If  the  butter  be  salted 
instead  of  fresh,  no  salt  is  necessary,  but  wash  the  butter  well  before 
using  it.  Put  the  flour  on  the  table,  make  a  hollow  space  in  the  cen- 
tre, then  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  the  butter,  adding  the  pint  of  ice- 
water  and  the  salt,  and  mix  the  whole  well  together,  incorporating  it 
gradually.  Put  it  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  five  minutes.  Have  ready 
the  remaining  fifteen  ounces  of  butter,  which  must  be  very  firm; 
sprinlde  the  space  of  a  square  foot  of  the  table  with  a  very  little  flour, 
place  the  dough  on  it,  then  lengthen  and  widen  with  a  wooden  roller 
to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  and  lay  the  fifteen  ounces  of  butter 


in  one  lump  in  the  centre.  Fold  over  the  four  edges  so  as  to  enclose 
it,  then  flatten  again  lightly  with  the  roller  until  it  forms  a  piece  two 
inches  thick,  and  then  put  it  away  to  cool  for  ten  minutes.  Roll  it 
again  lengthwise,  fold  it  in  four,  and  let  it  rest  for  another  five  min- 
utes; then  repeat  the  same  twice  more,  rolling  it  each  time  in  a  con- 
trary direction.  After  five  minutes  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  This 
feuilletage,  or  puff  paste,  if  put  away  carefully  in  a  cool  place,  will 
keep  for  three  days,  and  can  be  used  for  the  following  purposes :  vol- 
au-vents  of  chickens,  oysters,  clams,  shrimps,  lobsters,  codfish,  crabs, 
and  crawfish;  also  for  making  chicken  patties,  bouch^es  a  la  reine,  all 
kinds  of  tarts,  allumettes,  mille-feuilles,  chaussons,  turnovers,  petits 
pates  a  la  religieuse,  etc.,  etc. 

2.  Peach   Tarts. 

Take   half  a  pound   of   feuilletage   (No.   i),   roll  it  out    twelve 
inches  long  by  eight  wide,  then  with  a  paste-cutter  cut  out  six  pieces, 


and  arrange  them  neatly  on  six  scalloped  tart-molds,  each  three  and 
a  half  inches  wide.  Take  each  separate  mold  in  the  hand,  and  with 
the  thumb  press  the  paste  gently  at  the  bottom  and  sides,  to  so  give 
it  the  perfect  shape  of  the  mold,  but  avoid  pressing  the  paste  on  the 
edge,  so  that  in  baking  it  will  swell  and  rise  beautifully.  Divide 
three  ounces  of  apple  marmalade  into  six  equal  parts,  and  fill  the 
bottom  of  the  tarts  with  it,  then  wipe  six  good-sized,  solid,  fine  peaches, 
peel  and  cut  them  into  six  quartered  pieces ;  arrange  them  nicely  over 
the  marmalade  in  the  tarts,  then  distribute  two  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar  evenly  over  all ;  lay  them  on  a  baking-sheet,  put  them  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  twenty  minutes,  draw  them  to  the  door,  and  sprinkle 
the  edges  lightly  with  powdered  sugar;  then  leave  them  in  the  closed 
oven  for  two  minutes  to  allow  the  sugar  to  melt  thoroughly.  Remove 
them  from  the  fire,  put  to  cool  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  spread 
evenly  over  the  peaches  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  apple  jelly.  Dress 
the  tarts  on  a  dessert-dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve. 


iz 


3-  Pineapple   Tarts, 

Choose  a  small,  sound  pineapple,  cut  it  in  two,  roll  a  towel  round 
one-half  and  lay  it  in  the  ice-box  for  further  use.  Pare  and  peel 
neatly  the  other  half;  then  cut  it  into  small  and  very  thin  slices;  lay 
them  in  a  vessel  with  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  mixing  lightly 
for  one  minute.  Arrange  the  slices  carefully  over  the  marmalade  in 
the  six  tarts,  prepared  as  for  peach  tarts  (No.  2);  then  finish,  and  serve 
exactly  the  same. 


12 


4-  Strawberry   Tarts, 

Line  six  tart-molds  as  for  peach  tarts  (No.  2),  divide  into  them 
evenly  eight  ounces  of  apple  marmalade;  lay  them  on  a  baking- 
sheet,  and  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes;  re- 
move them  to  the  door;  sprinkling  the  edges  liberally  with  powdered 
sugar,  return  them  to  the  oven,  and  close  the  door  for  two  minutes, 
so  that  the  sugar  melts  thoroughly;  lift  them  out,  put  them  to  cool 
for  twenty  minutes,  then  take  out  half  the  marmalade.  Pick  and  wash 
neatly  a  pint  of  ripe  and  sound  strawberries;  put  them  in  a  vessel 
with  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  mix  well  for  one  minute,  then 
divide  them  equally  into  the  six  tarts;  spread  over  one  and  a  half 
ounces  of  apple  jelly;  dress  them  on  a  dessert-dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  and  serve. 


13 


5-  Apple   Tarts, 

Take  four  ounces  of  pie-paste,  and  with  it  line  six  oval,  channeled 
tart-molds,  four  inches  long,  three  inches  wide,  and  one  deep.  Have 
three  ounces  of  apple  marmalade,  and  divide  it  evenly  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  molds;  then  peel,  core,  and  cut  four  sound,  medium- 
sized  apples  into  quarters,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint 
of  cold  water;  place  the  lid  on,  and  let  cook  on  the  hot  stove  for  ten 
minutes;  remove,  and  pour  into  a  drainer;  let  drain  thoroughly;  then 
put  to  cool  for  thirty  minutes.  Cut  the  quartered  apples  each  into 
three  lengthwise  slices;  arrange  them  nicely  over  the  marmalade, 
dredging  equally  over  them  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar;  lay  them 
on  a  baking-sheet,  and  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven;  leave  to  cool  for  twenty  minutes;  then  spread  evenly  over  them 
two  ounces  of  apple  jelly;  dress  them  onto  a  dessert-dish  with  a  fold- 
ed napkin,  and  serve. 


6.  Hard  Sauce, 

Put  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  of  very  good  fresh  butter  with  four 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  then  with  a  spatula,  beat  together  sharply 
for  twenty  minutes;  add  half  a  saltspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  beat 
briskly  for  five  minutes  longer,  then  arrange  it  tastefully  on  a  dessert- 
dish,  and  place  it  in  the  ice-box  two  hours  before  serving. 


15 


7-  Baked  Apple  Dumplings, 

Sift  one  pound  of  flour  on  the  table,  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre, 
laying  in  it  half  a  pound  of  butter,  mingling  it  slightly  with  the  flour 
for  five  minutes;  when  done,  make  another  hollow  in  the  centre,  pour 
into  it  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar. 
Mix  all  together  gradually  for  five  minutes  longer;  it  will  then  be  a 
firm  dough.  Roll  it  together  with  the  hands,  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place 
for  five  minutes.  Peel  and  core  six  medium-sized  pippin  apples, 
sprinkle  the  table  lightly  with  flour,  lay  the  batter  on  it,  roll  it  out 
twelve  inches  long  by  eight  wide,  and  about  the  thickness  of  a  silver 
dollar,  then  cut  it  into  six  equal-sized,  square  pieces.  Arrange  the 
apples  upward  in  the  middle  of  each  square  piece;  mix  together  two 
ounces  of  granulated  sugar  with  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  ground  cinnamon, 
and  fill  the  cavities  of  the  apples  with  this.  Break  one  ^gg  into  a 
bowl,  beat  it  well,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk,  mix  well, 
and  with  a  pastry  hair  brush  moisten  the  edges  of  the  pieces  of  dough, 

i6 


and  fold  them  firmly  so  that  the  apples  are  entirely  enclosed.  Lay 
them  on  a  baking-pan,  and  with  the  rest  of  the  beaten  egg  brush  over 
the  surface  and  sides  of  the  dumplings.  Place  them  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  thirty  minutes,  and  after  they  are  a  nice  light  golden  color, 
remove,  and  dress  them  on  a  dessert-dish,  leaving  them  to  rest  in  the 
open  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  then  pour  the  following  sauce  over  be- 
fore serving:  Put  into  a  saucepan  one  pint  of  water,  six  ounces  of 
granulated  sugar,  one  bay-leaf,  six  cloves,  and  an  inch-long  stick  of 
cinnamon.  Place  the  pan  on  the  hot  stove,  and  let  boil  for  five  min- 
utes; dilute  half  an  ounce  of  corn-starch  in  a  bowl  with  half  a  gill  of 
cold  water,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  mix  well,  and  let  cook  for  two  minutes 
longer,  stirring  briskly  with  a  spatula.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and 
immediately  add  half  a  pint  of  good  claret;  stir  again,  and  when 
ready  to  serve,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  sieve  over  the  dumplings. 
Hard  sauce  (No.6)  may  be  substituted  if  desired,  or  both  may  be  used. 

17 


8.  Baked  Apples. 

Core  with  an  apple-corer  six  fine,  sound  Newtown  apples;  lay  them 
in  a  tin  pan.  Put  in  a  plate  two  ounces  of  granulated  sugar  with  a 
saltspoonful  of  cinnamon;  mix  well,  and  with  this  fill  the  holes  in  the 
apples;  add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  place  the  pan  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  let  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes;  remove,  and  dress  them  on  a 
dessert-dish,  pouring  over  the  juice  remaining  in  the  pan,  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold. 


9.  Boiled  Peach  Dumplings. 

Put  in  a  vessel  half  a  pound  of  well-sifted  flour,  mixed  with  half  an 
ounce  of  baking-powder;  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  and  pour  into 

18 


it  a  gill  of  lukewarm  milk,  hall  an  ounce  of  butter,  half  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  break  in  one  whole  egg.  Mix  these  ingredients  well 
for  two  minutes,  then  incorporate  the  flour  gradually.  Lay  the  paste 
on  a  lightly  floured  board  or  table,  roll  it  into  a  square  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  then  with  a  plain  paste-cutter  cut  out  six  pieces, 
iraiimg  in  the  middle  of  each  piece  two  ounces  of  stewed  peaches; 
fold  up  the  edges  all  round,  so  as  to  enclose  the  peaches  entirely, 
then  have  six  small  pieces  of  thick  white  cloth,  eight  inches  square, 
butter  and  flour  them  well,  then  arrange  the  dumplings  in  them; 
tie  them  firmly,  leaving  an  empty  space  of  an  inch  to  allow  the 
dumplings  to  swell,  and  plunge  them  in  a  large  saucepan,  holding  a 
gallon  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  for  twenty  minutes;  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  lift  them  out  with  a  fork;  let  drain  for  two  minutes, 
then  cut  the  strings  and  remove  the  cloths.  Dress  the  dumplings  on 
a  hot  dessert-dish,  pour  over  a  hot  wine  sauce  as  for  No.  7,  and 
serve. 


19 


lo.  Rice  Pudding  with  Orange, 

Clean  half  a  pound  of  fine  rice;  wash  it  in  lukewarm  water,  then 
drain  in  a  colander;  put  three  pints  of  milk  into  a  saucepan,  place  it 
on  the  hot  stove,  and  when  near  a  boil,  drop  in  the  rice.  Let  cook 
slowly  for  twelve  minutes,  stirring  it  frequently  from  the  bottom 
with  a  spatula;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  add  one  ounce  of  fresh 
butter,  three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a 
medium-sized  orange.  Mix  well  for  two  minutes,  then  add  three 
ounces  of  well-skinned  and  stringed  marrow,  finely  chopped,  two 
ounces  of  dried  and  cleaned  currants,  two  ounces  of  bitter  almond 


20 


macaroons  (No.  55),  one  ounce  of  finely  shred  candied  orange-peel, 
three  egg  yolks,  one  whole  one,  half  a  gill  of  brandy,  and  half  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt;  mix  well  together  for  ten  minutes.  Have  a 
buttered  and  floured  cloth,  arrange  it  in  a  deep  vessel,  and  pour  the 
preparation  into  it;  lift  up  the  four  corners,  tie  it  firmly,  being  care- 
ful to  leave  an  empty  space  of  about  an  eighth  of  the  contents. 

Place  a  deep  saucepan  on  the  stove,  half  filled  with  boiling  water, 
plunge  the  pudding  in,  and  let  cook  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  turning 
it  over  a  couple  of  times;  remove,  drain  for  one  minute,  untie,  and 
lift  from  the  cloth.  Dress  on  a  dessert-dish,  and  serve  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce  (No.  11). 


21 


II.  Sauce  h  VAnglaise  tu  V Orange, 

Put  in  a  saucepan  four  ^g%  yolks  with  four  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  stir  with  a  spatula  until  it  becomes  a  whitish  color.  Add 
two  gills  of  sweet  cream,  little  by  little,  beating  continually,  then 
grate  in  the  rind  of  an  orange.  Place  the  pan  on  a  slow  stove,  and 
stir  well  for  four  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  boil;  take  it  off, 
strain  through  a  sieve  over  the  pudding,  and  serve  very  hot. 


22 


12.  Bread  Pudding,   Cream  Sauce, 

Take  a  deep,  oval  dish  as  for  a  pot-pie,  and  large  enough  to  hold 
three  pints.  Pare  off  the  crust  of  half  a  loaf  of  stale  American  bread, 
and  cut  it  into  slices  the  third  of  an  inch  thick;  butter  them  well  with 
melted  butter,  and  with  them  line  the  dish.  Put  in  a  vessel  six 
ounces  of  dried  and  clean  currants,  two  whole  eggs,  a  pint  of  cold 
milk,  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  grate  in  the  rind  of  a 
medium-sized  lemon,  adding  its  juice.  Mix  well  together  with  a 
spatula  for  two  minutes,  then  pour  it  into  the  lined  dish,  and  place  it 
in  a  moderate  oven  to  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Take  it  from  the  oven, 
lay  it  on  another  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 


23 


13-   Cream  Sauce, 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  to  boil  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove.  Break  into 
a  vessel  two  whole  raw  eggs,  add  one  ounce  of  flour,  half  an  ounce 
of  corn-starch,  and  three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  beating  the 
whole  well  together  with  a  spatula  for  three  minutes.  If  the  milk  be 
boiling,  add  it  gradually  to  the  preparation,  stirring  continually  for 
two  minutes;  return  the  whole  to  the  saucepan,  place  it  on  the  stove, 
and  stir  briskly  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  remove,  and  add  immedi- 
ately a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring.  Strain  the  sauce  through  a 
sieve  into  a  sauce-bowl,  and  serve. 


14.    Cold  Maraschino   Pudding, 

Put  in  a  copper  basin  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
two  whole  raw  eggs,  and  grate  in  the  rind  of  a  quarter  of  a  medium- 

24 


sized  lemon,  and  with  a  pastry-whip  beat  the  whole  sharply  for  two 
minutes;  put  the  basin  on  a  very  moderate  fire,  then  beat  it  vigorous- 
ly for  five  minutes  more.  Remove  it  from  the  fire,  lay  the  basin  on 
a  table,  continue  beating  slowly  for  two  minutes  longer,  then  give 
the  whip  a  sharp  shake,  so  that  all  that  adheres  to  it  falls  into  the 
basin.  Now  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour,  and  with  a  wooden 
spoon  mix  slowly  and  carefully  the  whole  for  two  minutes.  Cover  a 
pastry  baking-pan  with  a  sheet  of  brown  paper,  pour  the  paste  over 
it,  spread  out  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch ;  put  it  into  a  moderate 
oven,  and  let  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  take  it  out,  let  cool  for 
another  fifteen  minutes,  and  remove  from  the  pan.  Place  it  on  a 
table  upside  down,  remove  the  paper,  and  with  a  knife  cut  it  into 
small,  square,  dice-shaped  pieces,  mixing  with  them  one  ounce  of 
dried  currants  and  one  ounce  of  finely  chopped  candied  citron. 

Butter  and  sugar  well  six  small  pudding-molds,  each  capable  of 
containing  one  and  a  half  gills.  Fill  them  equally  with  the  above 
preparation,  then  put  in  a  vessel  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  with 

25 


two  raw  eggs;  beat  well  with  a  pastry-whip  for  two  minutes,  then  add 
a  pint  of  cold  milk,  mixing  again  for  one  minute;  strain  through  a 
sieve  into  another  vessel,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence, 
and  stir  lightly  for  one  minute  more.  Pour  this  slowly  over  the  pud- 
dings, a  little  each  time,  so  as  to  give  the  necessary  opportunity  for 
it  to  absorb;  lay  them  on  a  tin  pan,  filled  to  half  the  height  of  the 
molds  with  warm  but  not  boiling  water,  then  place  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  steam  for  thirty  minutes ;  remove  them  from  the  pan,  and  lay 
them  in  a  cool  place  for  one  hour,  afterward  leaving  them  in  the  ice- 
box until  ready  to  serve.  Take  a  pint  of  whipped  cream,  as  for  No. 
65,  put  it  in  a  vessel,  mixing  in  for  two  minutes  half  a  gill  of  good 
maraschino,  and  leave  it  in  the  ice-box  until  ready;  then  prepare  a 
cold  dessert  dish.  Run  a  thin  knife  down  each  pudding  separately, 
from  top  to  bottom,  pass  it  carefully  around  the  mold,  so  as  to  de- 
tach them  easily.  Pour  the  maraschino  sauce  over,  and  send  to  the 
table  immediately. 

26 


15.  English  Pudding,  Baked. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  two  gills  of  sweet  cream,  three  ounces  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  the  peel  of  half  a  medium-sized  lemon;  place  the 
pan  on  the  stove,  and,  with  a  spatula,  stir,  and  let  boil  for  three  min- 
utes and  take  off  the  fire.  Have  ten  ounces  of  stale  French  bread, 
pare  off  the  crust  and  cut  it  into  small,  dice-shaped  pieces,  add  them 
to  the  preparation,  mixing  lightly;  put  on  the  lid,  and  let  the  bread 
soak  for  ten  minutes.  Chop  up  very  fine  one  ounce  of  candied  cit- 
ron ;  mix  it  with  four  ounces  of  dried  currants,  four  ounces  of 
melted  butter,  four  ounces  of  melted  and  strained  beef  marrow, 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  With  the  hand  stir  thoroughly  for 
two  minutes.  Pour  this  preparation  in  with  the  soaked  bread, 
and  mix  gently,  either  with  the  hand  or  a  spatula,  for  ten  minutes; 
meanwhile  breaking  in  three  eggs,  one  by  one  at  a  minute's  inter- 
val, and  adding  a  gill  of  Madeira  wine  and  half  a  gill  of  cognac. 
Butter,  and  sprinkle  well  with  bread-crumbs  a  two-quart  pudding- 

27 


mold ;  pour  in  all  the  preparation,  lay  it  on  a  baking-pan,  and  place 
it  in  a  slow  oven  to  bake  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  and 
with  the  aid  of  a  towel  turn  it  onto  a  hot  dessert-dish,  serving  it  with 
a  hot  Sabayon  sauce  au  madere  (No.  i6). 


1 6.  Sabayon  Sauce  au  Madlre, 

Put  in  a  saucepan  four  ^'g^  yolks  and  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  pow- 
dered sugar;  place  it  on  a  hot  stove,  and  with  a  wire-whip  stir  well 
for  two  minutes.  Drop  in  gradually  two  gills  of  Madeira  wine;  stir 
continually  for  two  minutes;  take  from  the  fire,  and  strain  through  a 
fine  sieve  over  the  pudding. 


28 


17.  Sago  Pudding, 

Boil  in  a  saucepan  one  quart  of  milk;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sago,  and,  with  a  pastry  wire-whip,  stir  briskly  and  continuously 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  from  off  the  fire;  let  cool,  then  add  four 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  mixing  well  again  for  one  minute.  Break 
in  four  eggs,  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  essence;  then 
mix  well  for  two  minutes  longer.  Butter  and  sugar  well  six  small 
pudding-molds,  the  same  size  as  for  maraschino  pudding  (No.  14), 
and,  with  a  ladle,  fill  up  the  molds  with  the  sago;  place  them  in  a  tin 
pan,  filling  it  to  half  the  height  of  the  molds  with  warm  but  not  boil- 
ing water.  Then  put  in  the  oven  and  let  steam  for  thirty-five  min- 
utes. Remove;  take  the  molds  from  the  pan  with  a  towel,  and  with 
a  thin  knife  detach  them  properly.  Then  turn  them  on  a  hot  dessert- 
dish,  serving  them  with  a  sauce  a  la  creme  (No.  13). 


1 8.    Tapioca  Pudding. 

The  same  as  for  sago  pudding,  using  tapioca.  Vermicelli  Pud- 
ding.— The  same,  using  vermicelli.  Rice  Pudding. — The  same,  us- 
ing rice.  Farina  Pudding. — The  same,  using  farina.  Indian  Pud- 
ding.—The  same,  using  corn-meal. 


3» 


1 9.  Chocolate  Pudding, 

Put  in  a  saucepan  five  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  five  ounces  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  five  ounces  of  finely  cut  cocoa,  and  five  egg  yolks;  place 
the  pan  on  the  hot  stove,  and  with  a  pastry-whip  stir  briskly  for  five 
minutes,  then  take  from  off  the  fire.  Beat  up  in  a  copper  basin  the 
whites  of  the  five  eggs  to  a  firm  froth,  and  add  them  to  the  prepara- 
tion in  the  saucepan,  mixing  all  well  together  for  two  minutes.  But- 
ter and  sugar  well  six  small  pudding-molds  as  for  No.  14,  and  fill 
them  with  the  preparation,  then  place  them  in  a  tin  pan,  filling  the 
pan  to  half  the  height  of  the  molds  with  warm  but  not  boiling  water. 
Put  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  then  take  out,  turn  them  on  a  hot 
dessert-dish,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  ^  la  creme  (No.  13)  poured  over. 


31 


20.   Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Butter  and  sugar  well  six  small  pudding-molds  as  for  No.  14;  dis- 
tribute evenly  in  them  half  a  pound  of  dried  cocoanut.  Put  into  a  ves- 
sel four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  break  in  three  whole  eggs,  mix  well 
for  two  minutes  with  the  wire-whip,  then  add  one  and  a  half  pints  of 
cold  milk;  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring,  then  mix  two 
minutes  longer.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  another  vessel,  and  with 
it  fill  up  the  molds;  arrange  them  on  a  tin  pan,  fill  to  half  their  height 
with  warm  but  not  boiling  water,  then  put  in  the  oven  and  let  steam 
for  thirty-five  minutes.  Take  from  the  oven,  turn  on  a  hot  dessert- 
dish,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  a  la  creme  (No.  13),  flavored  with  half 
a  gill  of  brandy. 


32 


21.  Pineapple  Pudding  a  la  Richelieu. 

Boil  in  a  saucepan  two  gills  of  milk,  adding  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter;  let  melt  well.  Have  half  a  pound  of  flour  and  the  spatula 
ready.  Drop  the  flour  in,  and  stir  immediately  with  the  spatula  as 
briskly  as  possible  for  two  minutes;  remove  from  off  the  fire,  add  three 
^%Z  yolks,  and  stir  again  vigorously  for  two  minutes  more,  drop  in 
three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  continue  stirring  for  one  minute,  then 
pour  in  a  gill  of  cold  milk,  mixing  well.  Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the 
whites  of  the  three  eggs,  and  add  them  gradually  to  the  preparation, 
mixing  slowly  for  two  minutes.  Butter  and  sugar  a  mold  holding  three 
pints;  put  a  layer  of  the  preparation  half  an  inch  thick  at  the  bottom, 
cover  with  two  ounces  of  fine  slices  of  stewed  pineapple,  then  another 
layer  of  the  preparation,  again  the  same  quantity  of  pineapple,  and  re- 
peat twice  more.  Place  the  mold  in  a  tin  pan,  fill  it  to  half  the  height 
of  the  mold  with  warm  water,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  steam  for  one 
hour.  Remove,  and  with  a  towel  turn  it  on  a  hot  dessert-dish,  and 
serve  with  a  sauce-bowl  of  sauce  au  Kirsch  (No.  22). 

33 


22.  Sauce  au  Kirsch, 

Pour  in  a  saucepan  one  pint  of  cold  water  and  half  a  pound  of 
granulated  sugar;  place  it  on  a  hot  stove.  Dilute  an  ounce  of  corn- 
starch in  a  cup  with  a  gill  of  cold  water,  and  when  the  water  in  the 
saucepan  is  boiling,  add  it  to  it,  stirring  well  for  two  minutes  with  the 
pastry-whip.  Take  off  from  the  fire,  then  add  immediately  half  a  gill 
of  kirsch,  and  mix  again  for  one  minute;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  in- 
to a  sauce-bowl,  and  serve  very  hot  with  the  pudding. 


34 


23.  Apple  Pudding  h  t Helvdtienne. 

Prepare  a  pudding-paste  exactly  the  same  as  for  pineapple  pudding 
(No.  21);  when  ready,  peel,  core,  and  slice  finely  five  medium-sized, 
sound  apples;  put  them  into  a  vessel,  mix  with  them  one  ounce  of 
powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  and  add  this 
to  the  paste,  artd  with  a  spatula  mix  thoroughly  all  together  for  three 
minutes.  Butter  and  sugar  well  a  three-pint  mold,  pour  in  the  prepara- 
tion, and  lay  the  mold  in  a  tin  pan,  filled  to  half  the  height  of  the  mold 
with  warm  water;  place  in  the  oven,  and  let  steam  for  one  hour;  take 
it  from  the  oven,  and  with  a  towel  turn  it  on  a  hot  dessert-dish,  and 
serve  with  the  following  sauce  (No.  24)  in  a  sauce-bowl. 


35 


24-  Sauce  Chaufausen, 

Put  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  in  a  saucepan,  with  three  ounces  of 
powdered  sugar,  six  cloves,  a  bay-leaf,  and  a  piece  of  cinnamon  about 
an  inch  long.  Put  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes; 
then  dilute  an  ounce  of  corn-starch  with  a  gill  of  cold  water;  add  it  to 
the  contents  of  the  pan,  and  with  a  whip  stir  briskly  for  two  minutes. 
Add  one  pint  of  Chaufausen  wine,  still  stirring  for  one  minute  longer, 
then  take  from  off  the  fire,  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  sauce-bowl, 
and  serve. 


25.  Custard  Pudding. 

Put  into  a  vessel  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  break  in 
five  whole  eggs,  and  with  the  pastry -whip  mix  well  for  two  minutes; 
add  a  quart  of  good,  cold  milk,  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
essence;  mix  well  together  for  one  minute.  Butter  and  sugar  well  six 
small  pudding-molds,  as  for  maraschino  pudding  (No.  14);  strain 
the  preparation  into  another  bowl,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  molds;  ar- 
range them  on  a  tin  pan  filled  to  half  the  height  of  the  molds  with 
warm  but  not  boiling  water;  then  place  them  in  a  moderate  oven  to 
steam  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven,  and  with  a  towel 
turn  them  on  a  hot  dessert-dish,  serving  with  a  sauce  ^  la  creme 
(No.  13). 


37 


26.    Lemon  Puddings  Cream  Sauce, 

Put  in  a  saucepan  six  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  six  ounces  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  six  ^%g  yolks,  and  the  grated  peel  of  a  medium-sized, 
sound  lemon,  squeezing  in  the  juice  as  well.  Set  the  pan  on  the  hot 
stove,  and  with  a  wire  pastry-whip  stir  sharply  for  at  least  five 
minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  lay  it  on  a  table;  beat  in  a  cop- 
per basin  the  six  egg-whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  to  the 
other  preparation,  beating  with  the  whip  thoroughly  but  not  briskly 
for  ten  minutes.  Butter  and  sugar  well  six  pudding-molds  as  for  No. 
14,  fill  them  with  the  preparation,  steam  them  in  a  tin  pan,  and 
serve  exactly  the  same  as  for  custard  pudding  (No.  25). 


27.    Orange  Pudding, 

Proceed  and  prepare  the  same  as  for  lemon  pudding  (No.  26), 
only  substituting  an  orange  for  the  lemon,  and  serving  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce:  Put  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  half 
an  ounce  of  flour,  and  break  in  three  eggs,  adding  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
corn-starch,  and  then  with  the  pastry-whip  beating  all  together  for 
three  minutes.  Mix  in  three  gills  of  boiling  milk,  place  it  on  the 
stove,  and  stir  well  until  boiling;  then  remove,  and  add  immediately 
a  gill  of  sherry  wine,  mixing  well  for  a  minute  longer,  then  strain 
through  a  sieve  over  the  puddings.     Send  to  the  table  hot. 


39 


28.   Fruit  Puddingy  Rum  Sauce. 

Butter  well  a  pudding-mold  four  inches  high,  containing  one 
quart,  line  the  interior  with  half  a  pound  of  dumpling-batter  (No. 
9).  Put  into  a  vessel  four  ounces  of  stoned  cherries,  three  ounces 
of  stoned  plums,  and  three  ounces  of  stoned  apricots;  sift  four 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar  over,  mix  well,  and  pour  it  into  the  mold. 
Have  half  a  pint  of  water  in  a  saucepan  with  six  ounces  of  granulated 
sugar,  place  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  fill 
up  the  mold  with  this  syrup,  and  lay  it  in  a  baking-pan  in  a  very  hot 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.     Remove  and  keep  it  in  a  warm  place. 


40 


29-    Rum  Sauce. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  half  a  pint  of  water  with  four  ounces  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  place  it  on  the  stove,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  cara- 
mel (No.  (i-^\  when  boiling  add  half  an  ounce  of  corn-starch,  diluted 
in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  stir  well  with  a  spatula,  and  let 
cook  for  two  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  immediately 
half  a  gill  of  Jamaica  rum,  mixing  well,  then  strain  it  through  a  fine 
sieve  into  a  bowl.  Lay  a  dessert-dish  over  the  mold,  turn  the  pud- 
ding onto  it,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 


41 


30.    Plum  Pudding. 

Remove  the  skin  and  strings  from  six  ounces  of  fresh  beef-mar- 
row; chop  it  up  very  fine,  and  place  it  in  a  basin;  pick  and  wash 
three  ounces  of  dried  currants,  and  mix  them  well  together  with 
the  marrow;  add  three  ounces  of  Malaga  raisins,  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  crumbled  bread-crumbs,  half  a  gill  of  Madeira  wine,  half  a 
gill  of  brandy,  half  a  gill  of  rum,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  two 
ounces  of  candied  citron,  shred  very  fine,  two  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  whole  eggs.  Moisten  the  whole 
with  a  gill  of  cold  milk,  add  a  saltspoonful  each  of  allspice,  ground 
clove,  and  cinnamon,  and  half  the  quantity  of  grated  nutmeg;  knead 
well  with  the  hands,  so  that  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incor- 
porated, which  will  take  ten  minutes.  Boil  some  water  in  a  saucepan 
capable  of  holding  the  pudding;  butter  and  flour  a  cloth,  lay  it  on  a 


large  colander,  which  will  answer  for  a  hollow  mold;  pour  the  mix- 
ture into  it,  then  hold  the  four  corners  together,  and  tie  it  firmly,  al- 
lowing sufficient  space  for  it  to  swell.  Plunge  the  pudding  into  the 
boiling  water,  and  let  cook,  leaving  it  half  covered;  the  water  must 
boil  steadily  for  five  hours;  every  hour  turn  it  over,  and  then  make 
the  following  sauce:  Put  into  a  saucepan  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter, 
two  drachms  of  flour,  and  three  drops  of  lemon  juice,  finely  sliced 
rind  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  add  half  an 
ounce  of  powdered  sugar.  Moisten  with  a  gill  of  port  wine,  then 
place  the  pan  on  the  stove,  and  with  a  spatula  stir  well,  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into 
a  bowl.  When  ready  to  serve,  drain  the  plum  pudding  for  one 
moment,  untie,  and  open  the  cloth;  serve  it  immediately,  pouring 
some  of  the  sauce  over. 


43 


31.   Caramel  Pudding, 

Put  in  a  vessel  four  eggs  with  three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  mix 
briskly  with  the  pastry-whip  for  two  minutes,  then  add  one  and  a  half 
pints  of  cold  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence;  then  mix  well 
again  for  one  minute,  strain  this  through  a  sieve  into  another  vessel. 
Butter  and  sugar  well  six  small  molds  as  for  maraschino  pudding  (No. 
14),  fill  them  one  inch  high  with  caramel  (No.  63),  let  cool  off  for 
five  minutes,  then  pour  in  the  preparation,  dividing  it  equally;  place 
them  in  a  tin  pan  filled  to  half  the  height  of  the  molds  with  warm  but 
not  boiling  water,  put  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  let  steam  for  forty  min- 
utes. Take  them  out,  turn  them  on  a  hot  dessert-dish,  and  serve  in 
their  own  sauce.  This  pudding  may  be  prepared  in  cups  instead  of 
molds. 

32.  Apple  Charlotte, 

Select  four  large  or  six  medium-sized  Newtown  pippins.  Peel,  core, 
and  cut  them  into  quarters.     Pour  them  into  a  saucepan  with  two 

44 


ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  place 
on  a  moderate  fire.  Toss  them  for  two  minutes,  then  moisten  with  a 
gill  of  white  wine,  and  grate  in  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon.  Cover  the 
saucepan,  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes  so  that  the  liquid  be  almost 
entirely  absorbed  by  the  apples.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  put  aside 
to  cool.  Take  a  three-pint  charlotte-mold;  line  it,  beginning  from  the 
bottom,  with  cut  slices  of  American  bread  the  thickness  of  a  silver  dol- 
lar. Glaze  them  well  with  melted  butter,  using  a  hair  brush  for  the 
purpose,  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  lightly  over.  Let  each  slice 
overlap  slightly  until  the  bottom  is  covered.  Then  line  the  sides  to 
the  edge  in  the  same  way.  Fill  the  mold  with  the  prepared  apples, 
and  cover  with  slices  of  bread.  Lay  it  on  a  baking-pan,  and  place  it 
in  a  brisk  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  or  until  the  bread  be  a  good 
golden  color.  Then  take  it  out,  lay  a  hot  dessert-dish  on  top,  turn  it 
over,  and  remove  the  mold.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  apri- 
cot marmalade  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  maraschino  and  one  of  wa- 
ter.    Mix  well,  pour  it  over  the  charlotte,  and  serve  very  hot. 

45 


33-  Small  Apple    Charlottes. 

Prepare  and  cook  the  apples  the  same  as  for  No.  32,  and  when 
removed  from  the  fire,  put  it  aside  to  cool.  Trim  the  crust  off  of  a 
quarter  of  a  loaf  of  stale  American  bread.  Cut  it  into  slices  the  thick- 
ness of  a  silver  dollar.  Butter  and  sugar  well  six  small,  round  pud- 
ding-molds. Shape  the  slices  of  bread  carefully,  to  line  the  insides. 
Butter  them  rightly;  place  them  in  a  clean  baking-pan,  and  leave  in 
the  oven  for  five  minutes  to  get  a  brown  color.  Remove  them;  let 
them  cool  a  little,  and  then  line  the  molds  with  them.  Fill  in  with  the 
apples,  and  lay  the  full  molds  on  a  baking-pan  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Turn  the  charlottes  out  on  a  dessert-dish.  Heat  half  a  pint 
of  raspberry  juice  in  a  saucepan,  pour  it  over  them,  and  serve  hot. 

34.  Apples  with  Rice, 
Core  and  peel  neatly  six  sound,  fine  Newtown  apples.     Put  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  gill  of  water  and  two  ounces  of  sugar.     Place  it  on  a 
hot  stove,  put  the  lid  on,  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes.     Meanwhile 

46 


boil  four  ounces  of  rice  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  with  half  a  salt, 
spoonful  of  salt.  Flavor  it  with  six  drops  of  orange-flower  water,  and 
let  cook  for  twelve  minutes.  Place  the  cooked  apples  in  a  square  tin 
pan,  pour  the  boiled  rice  over  them,  and  put  into  a  moderate  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Then  have  a  hot  dessert-dish  ready,  and  with  a 
tinned  cake-turner  dress  them  carefully  on  the  dish,  decorating  the 
sides  with  the  rice.  Should  a  pyramidal  shape  be  desired,  place  three 
apples  in  the  centre,  two  on  top  of  these,  and  the  last  one  above  them 
all,  then  fill  up  the  empty  space  around  them  with  the  rice,  and  serve 
with  half  a  pint  of  vanilla  syrup  in  a  separate  sauce-bowl. 

The  sauce  is  made  thus:  Put  two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  into 
a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  cold  water,  and  set  it  on  the  hot  stove. 
Stir  well  for  two  minutes;  add  two  vanilla  beans  split  in  halves,  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  the  fire;  strain  through  a 
sieve  into  another  vessel,  and  use  when  required.  This  syrup,  when 
cold,  may  be  poured  into  bottles,  and  if  corked  tightly  and  put  away 
in  a  cool  place,  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  a  month  at  least. 

47 


35-  ^^^  ^^"^  Pommes  a  la  Bonne  Fcmnie, 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove.  When  boiling,  add 
three  ounces  of  well-cleaned  rice  and  a  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Let  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  adding  one  ounce  of  butter.  Mix  for 
one  minute;  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool  for  thirty  min- 
utes. Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  in  a  ba- 
sin with  a  wnre-whip,  and  add  them  to  the  rice.  Sweeten  with  three 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoon ful  of  orange- 
flower  water.  Mix  well  together  for  five  minutes.  Peel  and  core  four 
sound  Newtown  pippin  apples,  and  cut  in  slices  about  the  thickness  of 
a  silver  dollar.  Butter  the  sides  of  a  saucepan  lightly;  then  cover  the 
bottom  with  a  layer  of  the  prepared  rice  half  an  inch  thick;  put  a 
layer  of  sliced  apples  over  this,  and  so  dispose  of  all  the  apples  and  rice 
in  alternate  layers.  Put  on  the  lid,  and  put  the  saucepan  into  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve. 

48 


36.    Turban  0/  Apples  au  Rzz, 

Prepare  half  a  pound  of  boiled  rice  as  for  No.  loi.  Butter  a  mold 
holding  three  pints.  Garnish  the  bottom  and  sides  with  the  rice,  us- 
ing a  wooden  spoon  for  the  purpose.  Peel,  core,  and  cut  into  quar- 
ters six  fine,  sound,  Newtown  pippin  apples.  Put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  a  gill  of  cold  water,  and  half 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Place  the  pan  on  a  hot  stove,  put  on  the  lid, 
and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  and  fill  the  mold  with  eigh- 
teen of  the  pieces,  reserving  the  other  six  for  later  use;  then  put  it  in 
a  slow  oven  for  twelve  minutes.  Use  an  ordinary  towel  to  remove  it 
from  the  oven.  Lay  a  dessert-dish  on  top,  turn  over,  and  lift  off  the 
mold.  Decorate  the  base  with  the  rest  of  the  apples,  inclining  them 
slightly;  and  the  top  with  two  ounces  of  cleaned  currants.  Garnish 
between  the  apples  with  four  ounces  of  candied  fruits,  placing  some 
on  top.  Pears,  angelica,  and  cherries,  all  sliced,  make  a  pretty  effect. 
Return  to  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

49 


37-  Ric^  with  Milk, 

Cleanse  well  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  Italian  rice.  Place  it  in 
a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  adding  half  a  pinch  of  salt,  the 
zest  of  half  a  lemon,  and  one  bay-leaf.  Cook  slowly  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Then  put  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a 
pint  of  hot  milk;  finish  cooking  on  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes,  and 
serve  in  a  hot,  deep  dish. 


50 


38.   Rice  a  la  Turgue, 

Wash  well  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  and  blanch  for  ten 
minutes  in  boiling  water.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  let  cook  firmly;  adding  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  a  lump  of  sugar  onto  which  has  been  rubbed  the  peel  of  half  a 
small  lemon;  also  half  an  ounce  of  good  butter,  one  ounce  of  cleaned 
currants,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  After  twenty  minutes,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  thoroughly  stir  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Place 
this  in  a  croustade  and  put  it  in  a  slow  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Re- 
move, sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar,  pass  a  hot  shovel  or  salamander 
over  the  top;  glaze  it  well,  and  serve  at  once. 


51 


39-   Rice  k  la  Frangaise, 

Wash  well,  and  blanch  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Italian  rice.  Boil  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
of  butter,  adding  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  a  pint  of 
milk,  two  bitter  almond  macaroons  (No.  55),  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
orange-flower  water,  half  an  ounce  of  candied  orange-peel  cut  into 
shreds,  about  twelve  candied  cherries  cut  into  halves,  and  twelve 
large,  seeded.  Muscatel  raisins;  also  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  thin 
slices  of  candied  angelica.  Finish  as  for  rice  ^  la  Turque  (No.  38),  and 
serve  with  a  sauce  thickened  with  a  gill  of  Alicante  or  Val-de-geras 
wine,  or  sherry,  kirsch,  or  rum. 


52 


40.  Rice  h  la  Condi, 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  one  pint  of  water.  When  boiling,  add 
four  ounces  of  well-cleaned  rice.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes,  stirring 
at  the  bottom  every  three  minutes  with  a  spatula.  Set  the  saucepan 
on  a  table;  add  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  four  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  six  drops  of  orange-flower  water.  Mix  well  for  one  min- 
ute, break  in  three  whole  eggs,  and  stir  again  for  two  minutes.  Ar- 
range the  rice  nicely  in  a  hot  dessert-dish,  keeping  it  high  in  the  cen- 
tre, and  decorate  with  twelve  pieces  of  stewed  peaches,  two  ounces  of 
dried  currants,  and  one  ounce  of  candied  angelica  cut  in  small 
lozenge-shaped  pieces;  beginning  with  the  peaches  on  the  top,  and 
arranging  the  remainder  of  the  fruit  around. 


53 


41.    Wheat  Cakes, 

Put  into  a  vessel  four  ounces  of  sifted  wheat  flour,  half  an  ounce 
of  powdered  sugar,  one  drachm  of  compressed  yeast.  Break  in  four 
whole  eggs,  and  mix  well  with  the  spatula  for  three  minutes.  Add 
half  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  and  beat  well  with  the  pastry-whip  for  four 
minutes.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  another  vessel.  Place  on  the  stove 
a  small  griddle,  greasing  the  surface  lightly.  Drop  about  two  ounces 
of  the  batter  onto  the  griddle;  bake  ten  seconds;  turn  it  with  a  cake- 
turner,  and  bake  ten  seconds  on  the  other  side.  See  that  the  cake 
is  a  light  brown  color  on  both  sides.  Put  them  on  a  hot  dish,  keep- 
ing it  warm  on  a  corner  of  the  range,  and  proceed  to  make  eleven 
more  with  the  remainder  of  the  batter.  Serve  very  hot,  with  honey 
or  maple  sugar  separately. 


54 


42.    Batter  for  all  Kinds  of  Frying. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin.  Make  a  hollow  in  the  cen- 
tre, and  drop  into  it  one  Qg%  yolk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  oil,  a 
tablespoonful  of  brandy,  and  a  light  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all 
the  ingredients,  except  the  flour,  for  three  minutes,  using  the  hand. 
Then  gradually  knead  in  the  flour,  meanwhile  dropping  in,  little  by- 
little,  one  gill  of  cold  water.  Mix  well,  moving  in  the  same  direction 
for  five  minutes.  Then  put  it  into  a  vessel,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and 
set  aside  to  rest  for  three  or  four  hours.  When  ready  to  use,  beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  froth  with  a  pastry-whip,  add  it  to  the 
batter,  and  mix  together  thoroughly  with  the  spatula  for  two  minutes. 
It  will  now  be  ready  for  use,  but  should  it  not  all  be  required,  it  will 
keep  in  a  cool  place. 


55 


43-   French  Pancakes. 

Sift  half  a  pound  of  wheat  flour  into  a  bowl.  Break  in  three 
whole  eggs.  Add  one  ounce  of  powdered  sugar,  and  mix  well  with 
the  spatula,  adding  half  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  pouring  it  in  very 
gradually,  and  mixing  for  five  minutes.  Butter  lightly  a  griddle  or 
frying-pan;  place  it  on  the  stove,  and  when  it  is  hot,  drop  onto  it 
two  and  a  half  ounces  of  the  batter,  and  bake  two  minutes;  turn 
over,  and  bake  the  other  side  as  long.  Turn  the  pancake  on  a  hot 
dessert-dish,  and  sprinkle  over  plenty  of  powdered  sugar.  Make 
eleven  more  out  of  the  remaining  batter.     Serve  very  hot. 


56 


44'  French  Pancakes  ii  la  Gelte, 

Make  the  batter  exactly  the  same  as  for  No.  43.  When  cooked, 
arrange  the  pancakes  neatly  upon  a  napkin,  and  spread  over  each 
one  about  a  teaspoonful  of  currant  jelly.  Roll  them  up  nicely,  and 
dress  on  a  hot  dessert-dish,  sprinkling  a  little  powdered  sugar  over. 
Then,  with  a  red-hot  iron,  glaze  the  surface  of  each  cake  in  three 
different  parts;  wipe  the  sides  of  the  dish  nicely,  and  send  to  the 
table. 

French  pancakes  with  apple,  apricot,  plum,  pineapple,  strawberry, 
raspberry,  or  peach  jelly,  are  to  be  prepared  exactly  the  same,  using 
different  jellies. 


57 


45-  German  Pancakes, 

Prepare  a  batter  as  for  French  pancakes  (No.  43);  butter  an 
iron  pan,  one  foot  in  diameter,  and  one  and  a  half  inches  deep.  Place 
this  on  a  hot  stove,  and  pour  all  the  batter  into  it,  letting  it  cook  for 
three  minutes.  Remove  to  a  brisk  oven  for  seven  minutes.  Take  it 
out,  slide  the  cake  carefully  on  a  hot  dessert-dish,  and  send  it  to  the 
table  with  six  pieces  of  lemoa 


58 


46.  German  Pancakes  with  Apples, 

Prepare  the  batter  exactly  as  for  No.  45.  Butter  the  pan  as 
for  the  above.  When  the  batter  has  been  poured  in,  spread  over  it 
evenly  one  pint  of  preserved  apples,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  finish 
cooking  exactly  as  for  the  plain  pancake  (No.  45).  When  ready, 
slide  it  carefully  on  a  hot  dessert-dish,  sprinkle  plentifully  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  send  to  the  table  very  hot,  with  six  pieces  of  lemon 
separately. 


59 


47-  Batter  for  Fritters. 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  in  a  small  basin,  with  half 
a  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  to  which  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  fresh 
butter  has  been  added.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  which  should  be  tilted 
on  the  range  so  that  when  the  water  boils  the  butter  can  be  skimmed 
off  the  top.  Add,  if  necessary,  a  little  more  water  to  make  a  soft 
paste,  beating  well  with  a  spatula,  to  keep  it  free  from  lumps,  and  of 
a  proper  consistence;  it  must  be  gray  and  compact-looking.  Add 
just  a  little  warm  water  to  render  the  paste  soft  and  diluted,  although 
sufficiently  thick  to  cover  the  objects  for  which  it  is  intended;  that 
means,  it  must  drop  easily  from  the  spoon.  Add  to  this  half  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  two  egg-whites;  beat  well  together  for  one  minute,  and 
use  at  once. 


60 


48.  Apple  Fritters, 

Take  three  medium-sized,  fine,  sound  apples;  peel  and  core  them 
neatly.  Cut  each  into  six  equal  round  slices.  Place  them  in  a  ves- 
sel, pour  over  a  gill  of  good  brandy,  add  a  light  saltspoonful  of 
ground  cinnamon,  and  let  all  steep  for  two  hours.  Strain  them 
through  a  fine  sieve,  being  careful  to  keep  them  whole,  and  saving 
the  liquid  for  further  use.  Prepare  a  fritter  batter  as  for  No.  47, 
dip  each  slice  separately  into  it,  and  with  a  spoon,  drop  them  singly 
into  very  hot  but  not  boiling  lard,  being  careful  to  remove  them  with 
a  skimmer  as  soon  as  they  are  of  a  good  golden  color.  Two  minutes 
will  be  sufficient  to  have  them  properly  done.  Then  lay  them  on  a 
clean  cloth,  to  dry  off  the  grease.  Arrange  a  folded  napkin  on  a  hot 
dessert-dish;  arrange  the  fritters  on  it,  and  leave  it  at  the  oven  door 
for  two  minutes.  Dredge  about  an  ounce  of  powdered  sugar  over, 
and  serve. 

61 


49-  Fritters  Soufflis  a  la  Vanille, 

Infuse  in  a  saucepan  half  of  a  vanilla-bean  in  half  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk,  and  reduce  it  to  half.  Remove  the  vanilla-bean,  and  put 
in  one  ounce  of  good  butter.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  two 
ounces  of  sifted  flour,  and  with  the  spatula  stir  briskly,  to  form  a 
paste  so  stiff  that  it  will  no  longer  adhere  to  the  saucepan.  Remove 
it  to  another  vessel.  Add  one  ounce  of  powdered  sugar,  two  tgg 
yolks,  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  white  of  one  tgg  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  it  in  with  half  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  (No. 
65);  this  will  form  a  consistent  paste.  Roll  it  on  a  floured  board, 
besprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  and  cut  out  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
With  a  skimmer  drop  them  into  very  hot  but  not  boiling  fat.  Cook 
quickly  for  three  minutes,  until  they  are  a  fine  golden  color.  Ar- 
range upon  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  powdered  sugar  sifted 
over. 

62 


50.  Pound  Cake, 

Put  in  a  vessel  half  a  pound  of  butter,  with  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Grate  in  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  with  the  hand 
knead  well  for  twenty  minutes.  Break  into  a  plate  five  whole  raw 
eggs;  add  gradually  and  carefully,  kneading  sharply  with  the  hand 
for  ten  minutes  longer.  Now  add  half  a  pound  of  well-sifted  flour, 
mixing  the  whole  slowly  and  thoroughly  for  five  minutes  more.  But- 
ter a  two-quart,  round  cake-mold,  and  line  it  with  brown  paper  at  the 
bottom  and  sides.  Fill  it  with  the  preparation,  and  put  it  in  a  slow 
oven  to  bake  for  fully  one  hour.  Remove,  and  let  cool  off  for  about 
two  hours. 


63 


5 1 .    Wedding  Cake, 

Place  in  a  large  bowl  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  pound 
of  well-washed  butter.  Grate  in  the  rind  of  two  lemons;  and  with 
the  hand  knead  well  for  ten  minutes.  Break  in  ten  whole  eggs,  two 
at  a  time,  and  knead  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Mix  in  a  plate  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  two 
of  ground  allspice,  one  of  mace,  and  one  of  grated  nutmeg,  and  add 
these,  with  half  a  gill  of  confectioner's  molasses.  Mix  well  for  one 
minute  with  the  hand.  Add  one  pound  of  well-sifted  flour,  stirring 
for  two  minutes  more.  Add  two  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of 
Sultana,  two  pounds  of  Malaga  raisins,  one  pound  of  candied  citron, 
finely  sliced,  one  gill  of  Jamaica  rum,  and  one  gill  of  brandy.  Mix 
the  whole  well  together  for  fifteen  minutes — using  both  hands,  if  nec- 
essary. Butter  the  interior  of  a  plain,  five-quart,  round  cake-mold. 
Line  the  bottom  and  sides  with  paper,  leaving  it  an  inch  and  a  half 
higher  than  the  edge  of  the  mold.     Pour  in  all  the  preparation,  and 

64 


place  it  in  a  very  slow  oven  to  bake  for  five  hours.  When  done,  lay 
it  on  a  table,  to  cool  off  for  four  hours.  Unmold,  detach  the  paper, 
and  turn  the  cake  bottom  up  on  a  wire  pastry-grate.  After  ten  min- 
utes glaze  it  with  one  egg-white  which  has  been  beaten  in  a  bowl  with 
four  ounces  of  extra  fine  sugar,  using  the  spatula;  use  a  knife  to  ap- 
ply the  glazing.  Now  lay  the  cake  in  a  warm  place  to  dry  for  two 
hours.  Then  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  with  four  ounces  of  extra 
fine  sugar  for  ten  minutes,  and  glaze  the  cake  as  before,  evenly  all 
around,  and  lay  aside  for  two  hours  more.  After  it  is  thoroughly 
dried,  lay  it  on  a  round  wooden  board,  with  a  fancy  paper  over,  two 
inches  wider  than  the  board.  Procure  a  fancy  wedding-bell,  with  a 
miniature  bride  and  groom  standing  under,  lay  it  in  the  centre  of  the 
cake,  fastening  it  on  with  glace  royale  (No.  loi),  pressing  it  through 
a  paper  cornet  with  a  fancy  tube.  Decorate  the  surface  of  the  cake 
with  ornaments  made  of  the  glace;  also  a  fancy  border  around  the 
edge  and  base.  Let  it  dry  slightly  for  two  hours,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use. 

65 


52.  sponge  Cake, 

Put  into  a  copper  basin  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Break 
in  seven  whole  eggs,  and  grate  in  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Beat 
well  together  with  the  wire-whip  for  one  minute;  then  place  it  on  a 
slow  fire  and  heat  it  slightly,  stirring  it  sharply  and  continually. 
Take  it  from  the  fire,  and  beat  it  well  until  thoroughly  cold.  Remove 
the  whip  and  with  a  skimmer  mix  in  carefully  and  slowly  half  a 
pound  of  well-sifted  flour;  two  minutes  and  a  half  will  be  sufficient. 
Butter  the  interior  of  a  one-quart,  round  cake-mold,  and  line  it  with 
paper,  keeping  it  an  inch  and  a  half  higher  than  the  mold.  Then  fill 
it  with  the  preparation,  and  bake  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Let  it  cool  thoroughly  for  two  hours;  unmold, 
place  it  on  a  pastry  wire-grate,  and  glaze  it  the  same  as  for  vanilla 
eclairs.  Decorate  artistically  with  a  glace  royale  (No.  loi),  arrang- 
ing it  in  any  desired  fanciful  design.  Serve  on  a  dessert-dish,  covered 
with  a  fancy  paper. 

66 


53-    ^Vci'ffl^^^  -with  Sugar. 

Put  in  a  vessel  three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  one  pound  of 
flour,  three  raw  eggs,  three  ounces  of  melted  butter;  mix  all  well  to- 
gether with  a  spatula  for  five  minutes.  Add  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
sweet  cream,  and  mix  again  well  for  two  minutes.  Have  your  waffle- 
iron  hot  on  both  sides,  and  on  a  clear  fire.  Grease  with  melted  but- 
ter, using  a  feather  for  the  purpose,  and  drop  into  each  of  the  holes 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  paste.  Bake  two  minutes  on  each  side, 
and  if  they  have  not  a  good  golden  color  bake  one  minute  longer  on 
each  side.  Heap  them  as  fast  as  cooked  on  a  hot  dessert-dish. 
When  all  are  done,  besprinkle  plentifully  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
serve  very  hot. 


«7 


54- 


Hoiv  to  Peel  and  Pound  Almonds, 


Put  the  almonds  into  boiling  water;  let  them  soak  three  minutes; 
strain,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  to  thoroughly  cool.  Drain  well 
again,  and  peel  by  pressing  each  almond  between  the  thumb  and  fin- 
gers. Then  put  them  into  a  sieve,  and  place  them  at  the  door  of  a 
slow  oven  to  dry  for  ten  minutes.  Now  pound  them  gently  in  a  mor- 
tar, stirring  well  to  prevent  them  from  getting  oily,  and  taking  care 
to  pound  them  very  fine  for  at  least  ten  minutes.  Lay  them  on  a 
cold  dish,  and  use  when  needed. 

55.  Bitter  Almond  Macaroons. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  two  ounces  of 
bitter  almonds;  peel  and  pound  them.  Put  them  into  a  bowl  with 
twelve  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs.     Mix 

68 


thoroughly  with  a  wooden  spatula  for  at  least  five  minutes.  Then  take 
a  pastry -bag,  slide  down  to  the  bottom  of  it  a  tube  (which  should  not 
be  larger  than  a  five -cent  piece),  and  pour  the  preparation  into  the  bag. 
Prepare  a  pastry  baking-pan;  lay  on  it  a  piece  of  brown  paper  the  full 
size  of  the  pan  (do  not  put  it  on  the  stove  at  present);  then  with  the 
two  hands  press  the  preparation  down  gently  into  the  papered  pan, 
dropping  it  carefully  into  bits  the  size  and  shape  of  a  silver  quarter- 
dollar,  trying  to  have  them  as  near  alike  as  possible,  and  taking  care 
that  each  is  entirely  separated  from  the  others.  Take  a  damp  towel 
and  drop  it  gently  on  to  the  macaroons,  so  as  to  shape  them  perfectly. 
Then  place  the  pan  in  a  slow  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Before  lifting 
them  out,  be  careful  that  they  are  a  good  golden  color.  Let  them  get 
thoroughly  cool.  To  remove  the  macaroons  easily  from  the  paper, 
wet  part  of  a  table;  lay  the  paper  over  this  for  two  minutes,  and  the 
macaroons  will  detach  very  easily.  The  above  quantity  will  make 
about  fifty  macaroons.  Put  aside  in  a  jar  those  not  needed,  as  they 
will  keep  perfectly  fresh  for  several  days. 

69 


56.   Gingerbread  a  la  Francaise, 

Make  a  hollow  space  in  a  pound  of  flour  laid  on  the  table.  Peel 
and  chop  up  very  fine  five  ounces  of  almonds;  put  them  into  the  hol- 
low with  a  saltspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  the  same  quantity  of  ground 
cloves,  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  seven  ounces  of  fresh 
honey.  Knead  the  ingredients  well  for  five  minutes,  then  mix  in  the 
flour,  and  knead  the  preparation  with  the  hands  in  all  directions  for 
fully  thirty  minutes  without  ceasing.  Finish  by  forming  it  into  a  ball. 
Lay  this  on  a  dish,  cover  it  with  a  napkin,  and  place  it  in  a  tempera- 
ture of  sixty  degrees  for  six  hours.  Lay  the  paste  on  a  floured  table, 
and  roll  it  out  eighteen  inches  long  by  twelve  wide.  Butter  well  a 
baking-sheet,  lay  the  paste  on  top,  and  put  it  in  a  very  slow  oven  to 
bake  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lay  the  baking-sheet  on  the  ta- 
ble, cut  the  cake  immediately  into  small  pieces,  lozenge  shaped,  one 
and  a  half  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide,  or  any  other  shape  desired; 
let  cool  off  thoroughly  for  about  twenty  minutes,  then  dress  on  a  glass 
bowl,  and  serve.  ^_ 


57«  Home-made  Cake. 

Put  into  a  bowl  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pound  of  good 
butter.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  hand  for  fifteen  minutes.  Break 
four  eggs,  leaving  the  whites  in  a  basin,  and  drop  the  yolks  in  with  the 
butter  and  sugar.  Mix  again.  Now  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  and 
add  them  to  the  other  ingredients.  Grate  in  half  a  saltspoonful  of 
nutmeg;  add  half  a  pound  of  flour;  mix  well  again;  stir  in  two  ounces 
of  well-cleansed  currants,  and  two  ounces  of  peeled  sweet  almonds  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Mingle  all  well  together  with  the  hand  for  five 
minutes,  and  with  the  other  hand  drop  in  one  gill  of  brandy.  Have 
a  round  cake  mold  holding  two  quarts;  butter  it  lightly  with  a  hair 
brush,  and  sprinkle  in  a  little  sugar.  Drop  a  third  of  the  preparation 
into  the  mold;  spread  over  it  two  ounces  of  candied  orange,  shred  into 
thin  slices;  then  add  half  of  the  remaining  preparation;  spread  on  top 
of  it  two  ounces  of  shred,  candied  citron,  and  fill  the  mold  with  the 
rest.     Lay  a  piece  of  brown  paper  over,  and  put  the  mold  into  a  very 

71 


moderate  oven  for  two  hours.  Let  it  get  a  good  golden  color.  Re- 
move, and  cool  off  in  the  mold,  which  will  take  about  three  hours. 
Remove  the  cake  by  turning  it  bottom  up.  Arrange  a  lace  paper  on  a 
dessert-dish.  Glaze  the  cake  with  a  glace  a  I'eau,  dress  it  on  the  dish, 
and  decorate  the  top  and  border  tastefully  with  assorted  candied  fruits. 

58.   Rice  Cake. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  rice  for  twenty-five  minutes.  When  well  done, 
drain,  and  add  to  it  a  short  paste  made  of  half  a  pound  of  flour,  six 
ounces  of  butter,  two  egg-whites,  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Pound  the  paste  and  rice  well  together  in  a  mortar,  and  have  a  baking- 
pan  covered  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper;  lay  the  paste  on  top, 
spreading  it  out  about  six  inches  square.  Put  it  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove  it,  detach  it  from  the  paper,  lay  it  on  a 
dessert -dish,  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  hot. 

Vermicelli  cake  is  prepared  the  same  way,  only  the  vermicelli 
should  not  cook  longer  than  twelve  minutes. 

72 


59«  Almond  Cake. 

Make  a  plain  paste  in  a  vessel  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  three 
egg  yolks,  half  a  pound  of  well-sifted  flour,  four  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely  pounded  almonds,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  about  six  drops  of  orange-flower  water.  Mix 
and  stir  well  for  five  minutes.  It  will  then  be  of  a  proper  consist- 
encyj  spread  it  round  about  eight  inches  in  diameter  on  a  buttered 
paper  in  a  pan,  and  with  a  light  hair  brush  moisten  the  surfeice 
slightly  with  beaten  egg.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  detach 
from  the  paper,  set  away  to  cool,  and  serve. 


73 


6o.  Biscuits  a  la  Cuillere^  or  Lady-fingers. 

Put  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  into 
a  small  bowl.  Beat  thoroughly  with  a  spatula  for  five  minutes.  Put 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  a  copper  basin,  and  with  a  wire-whip  beat 
them  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  to  the  sugar  and  yolks  four  ounces  of 
flour;  mix  together  gently  for  half  a  minute,  and  immediately  add  the 
whites.  Beat  gently  for  one  minute  more,  and  the  preparation  will 
be  ready.  Take  a  well-cleaned  pastry-bag,  slide  into  it  a  No.  2  tube, 
and  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  small  skimmer  pour  the  preparation  into 
the  bag.  When  it  is  all  in,  close  the  upper  part  of  the  bag  very  firmly, 
and  lay  it  aside  for  one  moment.  Take  two  separate  sheets  of  solid, 
brown  paper,  each  measuring  seventeen  inches  long  by  five  inches 
wide;  lay  them  on  the  table,  one  beside  the  other.  Take  hold  of  the 
lower  part  of  the  bag  near  the  tube  with  the  left  hand,  and  the  upper 

74 


part  with  the  right,  press  with  the  latter  and  drop  the  batter  on  the 
paper  in  straight  strips  four  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide.  Make  ten 
of  equal  size  on  each  paper,  being  careful  to  leave  an  empty  space  of 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  between  each.  Then  with  a  sugar-dredger 
sprinkle  them  lightly  with  powdered  sugar  three  times,  at  one  minute's 
interval  between  each  sprinkling.  When  finished,  lift  up  one  paper  at 
a  time,  keeping  it  perfectly  straight,  and  shake  off  the  loose  sugar,  be- 
ing particular  that  the  biscuits  do  not  detach  from  the  paper.  Now 
lay  them  in  a  pastry  baking-pan,  and  let  rest  for  two  minutes;  put 
them  into  a  slow  oven,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  until  of  a  light 
golden  color.  Remove,  lift  them  from  the  pan,  and  lay  on  a  table  to 
cool  off.  Have  ready  a  dessert-dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  then  de- 
taching the  biscuits  gently  from  the  paper  with  the  hands,  dress  them 
neatly  on  the  dish,  and  send  to  the  table. 


75 


6i.  Meringues. 

Put  six  tg'g  whites  into  a  copper  basin,  with  a  light  half  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  with  a  wire-whip  begin  beating  slowly,  but  gradually 
increase  until  a  stiff  froth  is  obtained.  Should  it  become  grainy,  beat 
briskly  again,  adding  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  sugar.  (Eight  min- 
utes should  suffice  to  a  have  proper  froth. )  Remove  the  whip.  Have 
on  a  plate  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  with  a  spatula  drop  the 
sugar  slowly  and  carefully  over  the  froth,  mixing  it  in  meanwhile 
with  the  spatula.  This  should  take  about  two  minutes.  Flavor  it 
with  any  desired  flavoring,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 


76 


62.  Apples  Meringuies. 

Have  six  fine  apples  cooked  as  for  No.  34;  dress  them  on  a  des- 
sert-dish, filling  the  cavities  with  currant  jelly;  then  decorate  all 
round  and  the  tops  with  meringue,  prepared  as  for  No.  61,  half  the 
quantity  being  sufficient.  Sprinkle  them  moderately  with  powdered 
sugar;  lay  the  dish  on  a  baking-pan,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  for 
five  minutes.  When  a  light  brown  color,  remove,  and  serve  either 
hot  or  cold. 


77 


6^.  Creme  Renversee. 
Put  in  a  copper  sugar-pan  three  ounces  if  granulated  sigar  with 
half  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Toss  the  pan  briskly  to  melt  the  sugar  well; 
then  place  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  until  it  becomes  a 
light  brown  color.  If  a  moderate  fire,  it  will  require  four  minutes, 
but  if  a  brisk  one,  only  two  will  suffice;  this  will  now  be  a  caramel. 
Take  a  pudding-mold  holding  one  quart;  line  the  interior  with  all  the 
caramel,  holding  the  mold  in  the  left  hand,  and  spreading  it  evenly  all 
round.  Put  the  mold  in  a  cool  place,  and  let  it  become  thoroughly 
cold.  Have  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  bowl;  break  in  four  eggs,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  es- 
sence. Beat  well  for  five  minutes;  strain  through  a  sieve  into  another 
bowl,  and  fill  the  mold  with  this  cream.  Place  it  in  a  tin  pan  filled 
with  water  to  half  the  height  of  the  mold,  and  place  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  When  of  a  good  golden  color 
remove,  and  cool  for  at  least  two  hours.  Turn  it  on  a  dessert-dish, 
and  serve  with  its  own  juice. 

78 


64.    Creme  en  Mousse  au   CafL 

Take  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  as  for  No.  65,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  coffee  essence  (No.  67),  and  beat  well  together  for 
five  minutes.  Transfer  it  to  a  china  bowl,  and  put  it  in  a  cold  ice- 
box. When  ready  to  serve,  use  a  spoon  to  drop  the  cream  care- 
fully upon  the  centre  of  a  cold,  round  dessert-dish,  keeping  it  as  high 
as  possible,  shaping  it  into  a  pretty,  artistic  dome.  Send  immedi- 
ately to  the  table. 


79 


65.    Whiffed  Cream  a  la    Vanille. 

Put  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  into  a  basin.  Have  a  tub  or  large 
dish-pan  containing  chopped  ice  and  a  little  water,  and  lay  the  basin 
on  top.  With  a  soft  wire  egg-whip  beat  the  cream  slowly  at  first,  and 
increase  in  swiftness  until  it  is  a  firm  froth.  Sweeten  with  two  ounces 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring,  beating 
constantly.  Let  it  rest,  and  use  when  needed.  Remove  all  the  super- 
fluous milk  which  may  be  found  with  the  cream,  before  using  it. 


80 


66.   Charlotte  Russe  a  la  Crkme. 

Take  six  small,  round  charlotte  russe  molds  two  and  a  half  inches 
high,  three  inches  in  diameter  at  the  top  by  two  at  the  bottom. 
When  thoroughly  cleaned,  line  them  with  biscuits  k  la  cuill^re  (No. 
60),  cut  them  in  two,  and  should  they  be  higher  than  the  mold,  trim 
them  off  to  the  edge.  Pour  the  whipped  cream  (No.  65)  into  a  pastry- 
bag,  and  fill  up  the  molds.  Turn  them  over  onto  six  dessert-plates, 
spread  a  little  more  cream  on  the  top  of  each,  and  cover  them  each 
with  one  macaroon.  Dress  the  rest  of  the  cream  nicely  around  the 
plates,  and  serve. 


81 


67.  Coffee  Essence. 

Take  one  ounce  of  good,  ground  coffee;  place  it  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  boil  until  reduced  to  about 
two  tablespoonfuls.  Then  strain  through  a  cloth,  pressing  it  well,  and 
let  cool  thoroughly.     Add  it  to  the  cream  as  described  in  No.  66. 


82 


68.    Vanilla  Ice-cream. 

Boil  in  a  saucepan  one  pint  of  milk  with  half  a  vanilla-bean;  put 
in  a  vessel  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  six  ^g'g  yolks,  and  with 
a  spatula  mix  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  it  to  the  boiling 
milk,  stirring  for  two  minutes  longer,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  cop- 
per basin,  placing  it  on  a  moderate  stove  to  heat  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  at  the  bottom  continually  with  the  spatula,  and  being  careful 
not  to  let  it  boil.  Remove  from  off  the  fire,  place  it  on  a  table,  and 
add  immediately  one  pint  of  sweet  cream,  still  mixing  it  for  two  min- 
utes more;  let  cool  off  for  thirty  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  sieve 
into  an  ice-cream  freezer;  put  on  the  lid,  and  lay  it  in  an  ice-cream 
tub,  filling  the  freezer  all  round  with  broken  ice,  mixed  slightly  with 
rock-salt;  then  turn  the  handle  on  the  cover  as  briskly  as  possible  for 
three  minutes.  Lift  up  the  lid,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon  detach  the 
cream  from  all  around  the  freezer,  and  the  bottom  as  well.     Re-cover 

»3 


it,  and  turn  the  handle  sharply  for  three  minutes  more;  uncover,  and 
detach  the  cream  the  same  as  before,  being  careful  that  no  ice  or  salt 
drops  in.  Put  the  lid  on,  and  repeat  the  same  three  times  more.  The 
ice-cream  should  by  this  time  be  quite  firm,  so  have  a  cold  dessert- 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  dress  the  ice-cream  over,  and  send  to  the 
table. 

This  same  ice-cream  can  be  formed  into  a  single  brick  by  having 
a  brick-shaped  form,  filling  it  with  the  cream,  and  pressing  it  down 
quickly  with  a  spoon;  cover  closely,  being  careful  that  the  form  is 
completely  filled,  so  that  no  salted  water  can  penetrate  into  it.  Put 
broken  ice  at  the  bottom  of  a  pail,  mixing  in  a  little  rock-salt,  lay  the 
form  on  top,  covering  it  entirely  with  broken  ice  and  salt;  let  freeze 
for  one  hour,  remove,  and  bathe  it  in  a  vessel  containing  luke-warm 
water;  wash  off  the  ice  and  salt  that  adhere,  and  lift  it  out  as  quickly 
as  possible;  remove  the  cover,  and  turn  it  on  a  dessert-dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  lift  up  the  mold,  and  send  the  ice-cream  to  the  table. 

84 


6g,    Chocolate  Ice-cream. 

Prepare  and  cook  exactly  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice-cream  (No. 
68);  put  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  well-chopped  cocoa  and  an 
ounce  of  powdered  sugar,  add  to  it  half  the  cream  preparation;  place 
the  pan  on  the  stove,  and  with  a  pastry-whip  stir  briskly,  and  let  boil 
for  three  minutes;  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  it  to  the  remaining  half  of 
cream,  then  mix  the  whole  well  together  for  two  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  into  an  ice-cream  freezer,  let  cool  for  thirty  min- 
utes, then  proceed  to  freeze  it  exactly  the  same  as  for  the  vanilla 
ice-cream,  and  serve  it  also  the  same. 


85 


70.  Coffee  Ice-cream, 

Put  in  a  vessel  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  six  ^gg  yolks; 
mix  well  with  the  spatula  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk,  stir  for  two  minutes  longer,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  cop- 
per basin;  place  it  on  the  hot  stove,  and  with  the  spatula  stir  gently  at 
the  bottom  until  well  heated,  but  it  must  not  boil.  Take  from  off 
the  fire,  set  it  on  a  table,  then  immediately  add  a  pint  of  sweet  cream, 
mixing  again  for  two  minutes,  and  throw  in  two  ounces  of  freshly 
ground  Mocha  coffee,  stirring  for  two  minutes  longer;  return  the 
basin  to  the  stove,  beat  it  up  again  with  the  pastry-whip,  and  lay  it 
on  the  table  once  more.  Cover  with  a  napkin,  so  that  the  coffee  can 
infuse  thoroughly  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve 
into  the  freezer,  and  proceed  freezing,  serving  exactly  the  same  as  for 
vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  68). 

86 


7^'  Stravjherry  Ice-cream 

Prepare  and  proceed  exactly  the  same  as  for  the  coffee  ice-cream 
(No.  70),  suppressing  the  coffee,  and  when  the  cream  is  cooked  and 
cool,  add  a  pint  of  well  picked  and  cleaned  strawberries.  Mix  well 
with  the  spatula  for  two  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into 
the  freezer,  pressing  the  strawberries  through  with  a  wooden  spoon; 
remove  the  sieve,  cover  the  freezer,  and  proceed  to  freeze,  and  serve 
precisely  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice-cream  TNo.  68). 


87 


72.  Pistache  Ice-cream, 

Have  two  ounces  of  fine,  dried  pistaches,  using  only  the  best 
quality;  put  them  into  a  pie-plate,  place  it  in  the  oven  to  let  the  nuts 
get  a  light  brown  color,  which  will  take  about  six  minutes;  remove 
from  the  oven,  lay  the  pistaches  in  a  mortar  with  one  ounce  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  pound  slightly.  Have  a  cream  preparation  exactly 
the  same  as  for  coffee  ice-cream  (No.  70),  suppressing  the  coffee. 
When  cooked,  add  the  pint  of  sweet  cream  and  the  pistaches,  then 
place  it  on  the  stove  and  heat  well,  stirring  continually.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  cover  the  basin  with  a  napkin,  and  let  get  thoroughly 
cool  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  three  drops  of  orange-flower  water  and 
five  drops  of  spinach-green,  mix  the  whole  well  for  two  minutes,  then 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  the  freezer,  and  proceed  to  freeze  and 
serve  exactly  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  68). 

88 


73*  P^<^<^^  Ice-cream. 

Put  in  a  vessel  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  with  six  tgg  yolks, 
then  mix  well  with  the  spatula  for  ten  minutes;  add  a  pint  of  boiling 
milk,  stir  for  two  minutes  longer,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  copper 
basin.  Place  it  on  a  hot  stove,  and  heat  it  thoroughly,  stirring  con- 
tinually, but  not  letting  it  boil;  remove,  lay  it  on  the  table,  and  mix 
in  immediately  one  pint  of  sweet  cream;  then  leave  it  to  cool  for 
thirty  minutes.  Have  six  ripe,  fine,  sound  peaches,  wipe  them  nicely, 
cut  them  in  two,  remove  the  stones,  then  mash  them  into  the  cream, 
mixing  thoroughly  for  three  minutes;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into 
a  freezer,  pressing  the  peaches  through  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then 
proceed  to  freeze,  and  serve  precisely  the  same  as  for  the  vanilla 
ice-cream  (No.  68.) 


89 


74^  Lemon  Ice-cream. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  into  a  basin;  grate  in  the 
rind  of  two  fine  lemons,  add  four  &gg  whites,  and  mix  well  with  a 
wire-whip  for  two  minutes,  then  add  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  stirring 
again  for  one  minute.  Place  the  basin  on  the  hot  stove,  stir  briskly 
with  the  whip,  and  take  it  off  when  coming  to  a  boil,  put  it  on  the 
table,  and  pour  in  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  mixing  well  for  two  minutes. 
Let  it  get  cool  during  half  an  hour,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve 
into  a  freezer,  and  finish  precisely  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice-cream 
(No.  (iZ). 


go 


75-  Lemon   Water-ice. 

Put  in  a  vessel  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  with  one  quart  of 
cold  water;  grate  in  the  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  or  of  two  small  ones, 
squeezing  in  the  juice  of  three  good-sized  ones,  or  of  four  if  small, 
and  with  the  spatula  beat  well  together  for  five  minutes.  Have  a 
syrup-weigher,  place  it  in  the  centre  of  the  preparation,  and  if  it  be 
twenty-one  degrees  it  is  correct;  if  not,  add  a  little  more  powdered 
sugar;  remove  the  weigher,  mix  a  little  more,  and  then  strain  through 
a  sieve  into  the  freezer,  putting  on  the  cover,  and  proceed  to  freeze 
it  precisely  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  d^^,  serving  the 
same. 


9» 


76.   Orange   Water-ice* 

Put  into  a  vessel  one  quart  of  cold  water,  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  grate  in  the  rind  of  two  fine,  ripe,  medium-sized  red 
oranges,  adding  their  juice  besides  the  juice  of  three  medium-sized, 
sound  lemons,  then  finish  the  same  as  for  lemon  water-ice  (No.  75). 


92 


77«  Raspberry   Water-ice, 

Place  in  a  vessel  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  three  sound  lemons,  add  a  pint  of  nicely  picked  and  cleaned 
raspberries,  then  with  the  spatula  beat  briskly  for  five  minutes  j  add  a 
quart  of  cold  water,  mixing  again  for  one  minute,  and  proceed  to 
finish  and  serve  the  same  as  for  lemon  water-ice  (No.  75). 


93 


78.  Pineapple    Water-ice. 

Cut  a  small-sized,  ripe  pineapple  in  two ;  put  one-half  away  for 
further  use,  paring  and  peeling  the  other  half  neatly,  then  cut  it  into 
small  pieces  ;  place  them  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  them  thoroughly  to  a 
pulp;  ten  minutes  will  suffice  for  this.  Add  half  a  pound  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  pound  again  for  five  minutes;  transfer  the  whole  into  a  ves- 
sel, squeeze  in  the  juice  of  three  sound  lemons,  then  pour  in  a  quart 
of  cold  water,  and  mix  well  with  the  spatula  for  two  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  into  the  freezer,  adding  two  Qgg  whites,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth,  then  beat  well  for  one  minute  more.  Cover  with  the  lid, 
and  finish  it  the  same  as  the  vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  68). 


94 


79-  Macaroon  Ice-cream. 

Take  six  ounces  of  macaroons;  put  them  into  a  tin  pan,  and  place 
it  in  a  moderate  oven  to  dry  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  and  lay  them 
on  a  table  to  cool  off  for  twenty  minutes,  then  put  them  in  a  mortar, 
pound  thoroughly,  and  sift  them  over  a  sheet  of  paper.  Have  ready  a 
vanilla  ice-cream  as  for  No.  68,  and  just  before  serving  add  to  it  the 
sifted  macaroons,  and  with  the  spatula  mix  thoroughly  for  five  min- 
utes, and  with  this  fill  a  three-pint  brick-mold,  covering  it  tightly. 
Have  ready  a  pail  with  broken  ice  and  rock-salt  at  the  bottom,  lay 
the  mold  over,  and  fill  up  the  pail  with  more  ice  and  salt.  Let  it 
freeze  for  two  hours,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  have  ready  a  vessel  with 
warm  water,  take  up  the  mold,  bathe  it  in  the  water,  and  wash  off  all 
the  salt  and  ice  that  adhere,  then  unmold  the  ice-cream  onto  a  dessert- 
dish  with  a  fancy  paper  over,  and  send  to  the  table  immediately. 

95 


8o.  Napolitaine  Ice-cream. 

Prepare  a  pint  of  vanilla  ice-cream  as  for  No.  68;  a  pint  of  pis- 
tache  ice-cream  (No.  72),  and  a  pint  of  raspberry  water-ice  (No.  77). 
Take  a  long  brick-form  holding  three  pints,  put  at  the  bottom  of  this 
the  raspberry  water-ice,  arrange  the  vanilla  ice-cream  on  top,  and  fill 
up  with  the  pistache,  then  cover  tightly.  Take  a  pail  with  broken  ice 
mixed  with  rock-salt  at  the  bottom,  lay  the  form  over,  and  fill  up  the 
pail  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and  let  freeze  for  two  hours.  Plunge  the 
form  into  warm  water  to  wash  of  the  ice  and  salt,  and  unmold  the  ice- 
cream onto  a  piece  of  paper  laid  on  the  table.  Dip  a  long  knife  in 
warm  water,  cut  the  brick  lengthwise  through  the  centre,  then  each 
piece  into  three,  so  that  the  Napolitaine  will  be  divided  into  six  equal- 
sized  square  pieces,  each  one  having  the  three  kinds  of  cream.  Dress 
on  a  cold  dessert-dish  with  a  fancy  paper  over,  and  serve. 

96 


8 1 .   Tutti-  Jrutti. 

Prepare  a  pint  of  vanilla  ice-cream  as  for  No.  68,  half  a  pint  of 
strawberry  ice-cream  (No.  71),  and  half  a  pint  of  lemon  water-ice 
(No.  75);  let  them  remain  in  the  freezers.  Put  four  ounces  of  candied 
cherries  onto  a  plate,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  add  two  candied  apri- 
cots cut  into  small  pieces.  Take  six  tutti-frutti  molds,  open  one  of 
them,  and  lay  on  the  cover  a  spoonful  of  strawberry  ice-cream,  with 
a  spoonful  of  the  lemon  water-ice,  one  beside  the  other ;  press  the  sixth 
part  of  the  candied  fruits  onto  the  ice-cream  in  the  cover  of  the  mold, 
filling  the  bottom  with  vanilla  ice-cream,  and  close  together  firmly. 
Lay  it  immediately  into  a  pail  with  broken  ice  and  rock-salt  at  the 
bottom,  cover  the  mold  slightly  with  more  ice  and  salt,  then  proceed 
to  prepare  the  other  five  molds  exactly  the  same.  When  they  are  all 
in  the  pail  and  covered  as  the  first  one,  fill  it  up  entirely  with  broken 
ice  and  salt,  and  let  it  freeze  for  one  hour.  Have  a  vessel  containing 
warm  water  ready  at  hand,  and  prepare  six  small  dessert -plates  with  a 

97 


small  fancy  paper  on  each,  lift  up  the  molds,  one  after  the  other,  wash 
them  off  quickly  with  the  warm  water,  and  unmold  the  tutti-fruttis 
onto  the  cold  plates,  and  serve. 

82.  Plomhihre  h  la  Kingman. 

Put  together  into  a  saucepan  eight  egg-yolks,  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  a  piece  of  vanilla-bean  one  inch  long  and  split  in  two, 
also  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  and  six  ounces  of  finely  grated  cocoa.  Mix 
well  with  the  spatula  for  two  minutes,  then  place  the  pan  on  the  hot 
stove,  and  stir  constantly  while  heating,  but  under  no  circumstances 
must  it  boil.  Remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  lay  the  pan  in  a  cool  place 
on  th?  table  for  thirty  minutes.  Put  an  ice-cream  freezer  into  a  tub, 
fill  it  all  round  with  broken  ice  mixed  with  rock-salt,  remove  the 
cover,  and,  after  wiping  the  freezer  well,  strain  the  preparation  through 
a  sieve  into  it,  cover  it  again,  and  with  the  hands  turn  the  handle  of 
the  cover  for  five  minutes  in  opposite  directions.  Lift  up  the  cover, 
and  with  the  spatula  detach  the  preparation  that  adheres  to  the  sides, 

98 


readjust  the  cover,  and  turn  again  the  nandle,  beginning  in  an  oppo- 
site direction  from  the  first  time;  after  five  minutes,  detach  from  the 
sides  as  before,  and  repeat  for  the  third  time  the  turning  process. 
Finally  lift  off  the  cover,  and  detach  the  cream  from  all  around,  and 
it  will  now  be  thoroughly  firm,  so  coyer  it  again,  and  let  it  rest.  Beat 
up  to  a  froth  one  gill  of  sweet  cream  as  for  No.  65;  take  a  glass  or 
silver  stand,  and  with  an  ice-cream  spoon  remove  the  cream  from  the 
freezer,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  and  dress  it  in  the  centre  of  the  bowl, 
keeping  it  as  high  as  possible,  and  giving  it  a  pretty,  pyramid  shape. 
Fill  a  paper  cornet  with  the  whipped  cream,  cut  off  the  point,  and 
decorate  artistically  the  top  and  sides  of  the  plombi^re.  Chop  up 
very  fine  two  ounces  of  pistaches,  and  sprinkle  them  evenly  O's^er  the 
surface,  then  send  to  the  table. 

83.  Punch  a  la  Lorenzo  Delmonico, 

Put  in  a  china  bowl  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  three  fine,  sound,  large  lemons,  and  the  juice  of  a  fine, 

99 


large,  red  orange,  then  with  a  very  clean  wooden  spoon  mix  together 
for  three  minutes.  Add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  a  gill  of  Swiss 
kirsch,  and  stir  for  four  minutes  more,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve 
into  the  ice-cream  freezer,  remove  the  sieve,  and  pour  into  the  freezer 
half  a  gill  of  St.  Croix  rum,  a  quarter  of  a  gill  of  Delmonico's  fine 
champagne  cognac,  and  half  a  pint  of  Delmonico's  champagne.  Cover 
immediately  with  the  lid,  and  place  the  freezer  in  a  narrow  ice-cream 
tub,  filling  the  latter  all  round  with  broken  ice  mixed  with  rock-salt; 
then  with  the  handle  on  the  cover  turn  as  sharply  as  possible  for  three 
minutes;  wipe  the  cover  neatly,  uncover,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon 
detach  the  punch  from  the  sides  of  the  freezer,  as  also  from  the  bot- 
tom; cover  again,  turn  the  handle  for  three  minutes  more,  uncover, 
detach  the  punch  as  before,  cover,  and  repeat  this  three  times  as  ex- 
plained for  the  vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  6S).  Have  six  cold  dessert- 
plates  covered  with  fancy  papers,  each  one  having  an  L.  D.  designed 
on  it;  fill  six  punch-glasses  with  the  punch,  arrange  them  on  the  plates, 
and  send  to  the  table. 

lOO 


84.  Romaine  Punch, 

Make  half  the  quantity  of  the  preparation  the  same  as  lemon 
water-ice  (No.  75),  and  before  freezing  add  a  gill  of  Jamaica  rum; 
then  finish  the  same,  only  serving  the  romaine  punch  in  six  small 
punch -glasses.  Kirsch  Punch.  —  To  be  prepared  precisely  as  for  the 
above  (No.  83),  only  substituting  a  gill  of  kirsch  for  the  rum,  and 
serving  it  the  same. 

85.  Punch  h  la   CardinaL 

Prepare  half  the  quantity  of  the  preparation  as  for  raspberry  water- 
ice  (No.  77);  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  the  freezer,  then  pour  in 
half  a  gill  of  red  curagoa,  and  half  a  gill  of  maraschino;  put  on  the 
lid,  and  freeze  it  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  68),  only 
serving  it  in  six  punch -glasses. 

Id 


86.   Champagne  Punch. 

Have  half  the  quantity  of  preparation  described  for  orange  water- 
ice  (No.  76),  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  the  freezer,  and  add  half  a 
pint  of  good  champagne.  Place  the  cover  on,  and  proceed  to  freeze 
it  exactly  as  for  vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  68),  serving  it  in  six  punch- 
glasses.  Punch  a  la  Lalla  Rookh. —  Have  ready  half  the  quantity  of 
preparation  of  vanilla  ice-cream  (No.  68);  strain  it  through  a  fine 
sieve  into  the  freezer,  adding  one  gill  of  Jamaica  rum;  freeze  it  the 
same,  and  serve  it  in  glsisses. 


a02 


87.  Punch  en  Surprise, 

Have  six  fancy  formsj  one  the  shape  of  a  pear,  one  of  an  apple,  one 
of  a  banana,  one  of  a  tomato,  one  of  a  pineapple,  and  one  of  a  peach. 
Fill  a  tin  pan  with  finely  cracked  ice  well  mixed  with  rock-salt,  lay 
on  it  the  six  molds,  opened  flat,  fill  them  with  cold  water,  also  the  pan 
to  half  its  height,  and  let  it  all  rest  for  one  hour;  feel  the  inside  of  the 
molds  to  find  whether  a  frozen  crust  adheres  to  them;  if  so,  continue 
to  finish  the  punch.  Have  any  kind  of  desired  punch  ready;  take  up 
each  mold  separately,  empty  out  the  water,  and  fill  them  one  after 
another;  close  tightly,  and  lay  them  in  a  pail  previously  prepared  with 
broken  ice  and  rock-salt  at  the  bottom;  cover  them  with  plenty 
more  ice  and  salt,  and  let  freeze  one  hour.  Have  ready  a  cold  des- 
sert-dish with  a  folded  napkin  over;  put  some  warm  water  in  a  vessel, 
take  up  each  mold,  one  by  one,  dip  them  into  the  water,  and  hastily 
wash  off  any  ice  or  salt  which  may  adhere,  unmold  them  carefully,  and 
lay  them  nicely  on  the  dessert-dish,  and  send  to  the  table  at  once. 

103 


88.  Punch  a  la  Francaise^  Hot, 

Put  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  range  one  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  with 
twelve  ounces  of  granulated  sugar;  stir  continually  with  the  spatula 
until  reduced  to  half  the  quantity.  Add  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  the 
juice  of  four  sweet  oranges,  then  set  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  stove 
to  keep  hot.  Put  into  a  tea-pot  one  ounce  of  green  tea,  pouring 
over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  infuse  for  ten  minutes,  then 
strain  into  the  preparation;  return  it  on  the  hot  place,  and  when  about 
boiling,  skim  thoroughly  with  a  skimmer.  Take  it  from  the  fire,  pour 
it  into  a  punch-bowl,  and  serve.  Punch  a  la  Frangaise,  Iced. —  Have 
a  punch  k  la  Frangaise  ready,  as  directed,  and  let  cool  off.  Pour 
it  into  a  small  freezer,  cover  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  wooden  tub  filled 
with  chopped  ice  all  around.  Sprinkle  the  ice  well  with  rock-salt, 
and  with  the  hands  turn  the  freezer  sharply  around  in  opposite  di- 
rections. While  doing  this,  stop  every  two  minutes  to  detach  the 
punch  from  around  the  freezer  (using  a  spatula),  so  that  it  will  be 

104 


perfectly  firm.  If  sharply  handled,  fifteen  minutes  will  suffice  to 
freeze  it  thoroughly,  then  serve  in  six  punch-glasses,  dividing  it 
equally. 

89.  Punch  a  la  Czarina^  Hot. 

Place  in  a  copper  or  tin  vessel  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  half 
a  pint  of  Swiss  kirsch^  four  ounces  of  St.  Croix  rum,  and  two  ounces 
of  good  cognac.  Light  this  mixture  with  a  match,  and  let  it  burn  un- 
til the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  pour  in  a  quart  of  Roederer's  cham- 
pagne, not  colder  than  fifty  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Squeeze  in  the  juice 
of  a  good-sized,  mellow  orange,  and  add  twelve  thin  slices  of  pine- 
apple \  mix  the  whole  well  with  a  ladle,  heat  it  slightly,  being  careful 
it  does  not  boil,  then  pour  the  punch  into  a  fancy  bowl,  and  serve  hot 
with  six  punch -glasses. 

105 


90.   Champagne  Cup. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  good-sized,  sound  lemon  into  a  fancy- 
glass  pitcher  large  enough  to  contain  five  pints;  sweeten  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  then  add  two  ponies  of  red  curagoa, 
one  bottle  of  plain  soda,  and  two  slices  of  cucumber-rind.  Pour  in 
three  pints  of  any  brand  of  champagne,  adding  about  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  ice,  then  mix  thoroughly  with  a  spoon,  and  ornament  the 
punch  nicely  with  strawberries,  very  thin  slices  of  pineapple,  a  finely 
sliced,  medium -sized  orange,  and  half  a  bunch  of  fine,  fresh  mint; 
send  the  cup  to  the  table  with  six  champagne-glasses. 


io6 


91.   Claret  Cup, 

Have  a  glass  pitcher  holding  two  and  a  half  quarts,  or  five  pints ; 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  three  medium-sized,  sound  lemons,  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  two  ponies  of  red  curagoa,  and  two 
slices  of  cucumber-rind,  then  pour  in  three  pints  of  claret,  and  one 
bottle  of  plain  soda;  or  a  pint  of  either  Clysmic,  Apollinaris,  or  car- 
bonic water  will  answer.  Mix  thoroughly  with  a  spoon,  adding  a 
lump  of  ice  weighing  about  three-quarters  of  a  pound;  mix  again,  then 
decorate  with  a  finely  sliced  orange  cut  into  small  pieces,  berries  of 
any  kind,  and  finally  with  half  a  bunch  of  fresh  mint.  Serve  in  six 
punch-glasses,  and  the  efiect  will  be  exceedingly  pretty. 


107 


92.  Sherry-tvine  yelly. 

Put  one  quart  of  cold  water  into  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pound  of 
granulated  sugar;  break  in  two  ounces  of  gelatine  in  small  pieces,  and 
grate  in  the  rind  of  a  medium-sized  lemon,  squeezing  in  the  juice  as 
well.  Mix  well,  and  place  the  saucepan  on  the  hot  stove.  Beat  up 
in  a  basin  two  egg  whites,  and  add  them  to  the  other  ingredients, 
then  grate  in  a  saltspoonful  of  nutmeg,  adding  six  cloves  and  one  bay- 
leaf,  mixing  well  with  the  whip  for  one  minute.  Have  ready  a  seam- 
less jelly-bag  (which  can  be  purchased  ready  made),  tie  it  on  a  jelly- 
stand,  or  if  none  handy,  two  kitchen  chairs  will  answer  the  purpose. 
Stir  the  preparation,  and  when  coming  to  a  boil,  set  it  back  to  a 


io8 


cooler  part  of  the  stove  to  prevent  it  overflowing ;  stir,  while  boiling, 
for  six  minutes.  Place  a  vessel  under  the  jelly-bag,  remove  the  pan 
from  the  fire,  and  pour  the  whole  into  the  bag,  immediately  adding  to 
it  half  a  pint  of  good  sherry  wine,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  burned 
sugar  (No.  102).  Let  it  drain  into  the  vessel,  then  return  it  to  the 
bag,  placing  another  vessel  underneath,  then  let  it  drain  through  for 
fully  two  hours.  Have  a  quart  jelly-mold,  pour  the  jelly  from  the 
vessel  into  it,  and  set  it  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  two  hours,  then  put 
it  into  the  ice-box  to  harden  for  two  hours  more.  Prepare  a  cold  des- 
sert-dish, and  after  dipping  the  mold  lightly  and  carefully  to  near  its 
edge  in  lukewarm  water,  take  it  up  immediately,  and  turn  it  onto 
the  dish,  wiping  neatly  the  latter  all  around,  then  send  to  the  table. 


109 


93-  Kirsch  Jelly. 

This  jelly  is  to  be  prepared  the  same  as  the  sherry- wine  jelly  (No. 
92),  omitting  the  burned  sugar,  and  replacing  the  sherry  wine  by  a 
gill  of  Swiss  Kirschwasser,  then  serving  it  the  same.  Jamaica-rum 
Jelly. —  Proceed  exactly  the  same  as  for  sherry- wine  jelly,  only  substi- 
tuting a  gill  of  Jamaica  rum  for  the  sherry,  then  finish  and  serve  the 
same.  Brandy  Jelly. —  To  be  prepared  precisely  the  same  as  the 
sherry-wine  jelly,  substituting  a  gill  of  good  brandy  for  the  sherry,  and 
served  the  same  as  the  other  jellies.  Champagne  Jelly. —  To  be  made 
the  same  as  the  sherry-wine  jelly,  suppressing  the  burned  sugar,  and 
using  half  a  pint  of  Delmonico's  champagne,  instead  of  the  sherry. 
To  be  served  the  same. 


no 


94 •  H<yw  to  Make  Black  Cojff^ee. 

Take  six  light  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee-beans  \  grind  them  in  a  mill 
neither  too  coarse  nor  too  fine.  Have  a  well -cleaned  French  coffee- 
pot, put  the  coffee  on  the  filter,  with  the  small  strainer  over,  then  pour 
on  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  little  by  little,  recollecting,  at 
the  same  time,  that  too  much  care  cannot  be  taken  to  impress  on  those 
making  the  coffee,  the  necessity  of  having  the  water  boiling  thor- 
oughly, otherwise  it  were  as  useless  to  attempt  the  feat  as  to  try  and 
raise  musk-melons  at  the  North  Pole,  notwithstanding  that  the  coffee 
be  of  the  very  first  quality.  When  all  the  water  is  consumed  put  on 
the  cover,  and  let  infuse  slightly,  but  on  no  account  must  it  boil  again; 
then  serve  in  six  after-dinner  cups.  Coffee  should  never  be  prepared 
more  than  five  minutes  before  the  time  to  serve. 


Ill 


95.    Cafe  au  Lait  {Coffee  -with  Milk). 

Have  a  clean  French  coffee-filter  ready  on  the  hot  range;  place  in 
it  four  and  a  half  ounces  of  freshly  ground  coffee,  as  for  No.  94;  then 
gradually  pour  over  it,  all  around,  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  let 
rest  for  three  minutes,  then  gradually  pour  over  two  pints  and  a  half 
more  of  boiling  water  (taking  special  care  that,  under  no  circumstances, 
should  it  be  allowed  to  boil  again  after  the  water  has  been  poured 
over).  When  all  dripped  down,  pour  it  into  a  hot  coffee-pot.  Take 
three  pints  of  good,  freshly  and  thoroughly  heated  milk  (but  do  not 
boil  it),  pour  it  into  a  hot  pitcher,  send  to  the  table  with  six  hot  cups 
^  caf^  au  laity  pouring  into  each  cup  half  coffee  and  half  milk. 


112 


96.   Cafe  Glace  {Iced  Coffee), 

Prepare  one  quart  of  coffee  as  for  No.  94,  and  also  one  quart  of 
thoroughly  heated  milk  (not  boiled).  Pour  both  coffee  and  milk  into 
a  small  ice-cream  freezer.  Sweeten  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar;  tightly  cover  the  freezer,  place  it  in  a  tub  containing 
broken  ice  and  rock-salt  a  little  higher  than  the  height  of  the  coffee, 
then  sharply  turn  it  by  the  handle  of  the  cover,  in  different  directions, 
for  five  or  six  minutes;  neatly  wipe  the  cover  of  the  freezer  all  around 
to  avoid  that  any  ice  should  fall  in ;  and  with  the  aid  of  a  ladle  pour  it 
into  a  pitcher,  and  serve  with  six  coffee-glasses,  and  powdered  sugar 
separately. 


"3 


97-    The  a  la  Russe  {Russian   Ted), 

Place  in  a  tea-pot  three  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  English-breakfast 
tea;  pour  over  a  little  boiling  water,  just  sufficient  to  cover  the  tea, 
about  two  tablespoonfuls;  let  infuse  for  one  minute,  then  draw  the 
water  out,  but  do  not  use  it.  Pour  in  half  a  pony  of  good,  old 
Jamaica  rum  and  three  pints  of  boiling  water;  let  infuse  for  four  min- 
utes, and  then  serve  in  cup,  with  a  decanter  of  old  Jamaica  rum  sepa- 
rately, thin  slices  of  lemon  and  powdered  sugar. 

This  is  the  old  Russian  style.  Later  fashion  is  to  flavor  it  with  a 
little  vanilla  flavor  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 


"4 


98.  Hotu  to  Make  Chocolate. 

Select  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  good  chocolate  (Maillard's  is 
preferable),  break  it  into  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  on  the 
stove  with  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  when  the  chocolate  is  thoroughly  dissolved  pour  one  quart  of 
boiling  water  over,  using  a  quart  of  milk  instead  of  the  water  when 
chocolate  and  milk  is  desired.  Let  it  cook  well  for  ten  minutes,  then 
serve. 


"5 


99-  Egg-Nog. 

Have  a  punch-bowl  sufficiently  large  to  hold  at  least  three  quarts. 

Crack  eight  very  fresh  eggs,  separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites, 
and  then  with  the  aid  of  a  wire-whip  sharply  beat  up  the  yolks  in  a 
bowl  with  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  powdered  sugar;  then  pour  in 
one  pint  of  Jamaica  rum  and  two  quarts  of  fresh  milk,  continually 
stirring  with  the  whip  while  pouring  in  the  milk;  when  all  added, 
sharply  beat  with  the  whip  again  for  two  and  a  half  to  three  minutes. 

Now  beat  up  the  whites  in  a  bowl  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and  then 
pour  it  over  the  egg-nog.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  cool  place,  and  serve 
when  desired  with  six  fine  tumblers. 


ii6 


loo.   Champagne  Punch, 

Have  a  pretty  champagne  bowl  large  enough  to  hold  three  quarts. 

Prepare  a  pot  of  Oolong  tea  (by  preference)  the  equivalent  of  two 
teacupfuls;  lay  it  aside  until  cool,  without  placing  it  on  the  ice,  etc. 
Pour  one  pony  of  eurak  into  the  bowl  (which  can  be  obtained  at  Park 
&  Tilford's,  Acker,  Merrall  &  Condit's  or,  I  think,  at  any  pharma- 
cist's), two  wineglassfuls  of  Rhein  wine,  one  pony  of  brandy,  one 
pony  of  maraschino,  one  bottle  of  cold  plain  soda,  and  one  quart  of 
champagne,  and  then  strain  in  the  prepared  tea  also.  Mix  the  whole 
thoroughly  together  with  a  ladle;  then  put  in  the  punch  a  piece  of 
clean  and  clear  ice  of  about  one  pound.  Peel  a  fine,  medium-sized, 
sound  banana,  slice  it  into  thin  slices,  scatter  them  all  over  the  punch. 
Neatly  peel  and  slice,  also,  a  fine,  juicy,  sound  orange,  and  spread  the 
slices  all  over  the  punch,  and  then  send  it  to  the  table  with  six  fine 
punch-glasses. 

117 


APPENDIX. 


loi.   Glace  Royale  for  Allumettes. 

Put  into  a  small  bowl  half  the  white  of  a  raw  ^gg  and  two  ounces 
of  extra  fine  sugar,  and  beat  well  with  a  spatula.  Drop  in  carefully 
just  one  drop,  and  no  more,  of  lemon  juice;  beat  again  for  five  min- 
utes, until  thickened;  it  will  then  be  ready  for  use. 


119 


I02.  Burned  Sugar. 

Put  into  a  small  iron  omelet-pan  half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  place  on  a  slow  stove  to  burn  thoroughly  for  thirty  minutes.  Re- 
move the  pan  to  the  table  to  cool  slightly  for  five  minutes,  and  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  mixing  well  with  an  iron  spoon.  Re- 
place the  pan  on  the  stove,  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  stirring  continu- 
ally; then  strain  the  sugar  through  a  sieve  into  a  vessel,  and  put  in  a 
cold  place  to  cool  thoroughly.  Pour  it  into  a  bottle,  and  use  when 
required.  Burned  sugar  prepared  this  way  will  keep  in  perfect 
condition  for  several  weeks. 


1 20 


103.  Stewed  Apples. 

Take  six  fine,  sound  Middletown  pippin  apples,  peel  them  neatly, 
and  with  an  apule-corer  core  them  thoroughly,  then  cut  each  apple 
into  four  quarters,  and  lay  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
adding  half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  When  the  contents  of  the 
pan  come  to  a  boil,  skim  well,  and  then  flavor  with  the  juice  of  half 
an  orange,  or  the  same  quantity  of  lemon,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  ground 
cinnamon  can  also  be  added.  When  flavored,  let  cook  for  five  minutes 
longer,  and  with  a  spatula  stir  slowly  from  the  bottom  to  avoid  mash- 
ing the  apples.  Remove  from  the  fire,  pour  into  a  china  bowl,  and 
cool  off"  thoroughly  before  serving. 


121 


"-^ 


/ 


V7 


.,,j»,e^^^^ 


1 

CO 

>o 

CN 

lO 

LOAN  PERIOD    1 
7  DAYS 

^ 

CO 

< 


LU 
< 


< 

U 
uu 

LU 
CO 

>- 
< 

CO 

O 
O 


o 

liJ 

CO 

o 

lU 

% 

< 

< 

UJ 

O 

OC- 

s 

■: 
> 
) 

•■a 


