UCB 


DAJ  MT 


foil 


^AJMTY 


KNOX 
GELATINE 


T'uMisfied  Joir 

CHARLES  BoENOX  COMPANY 

INCORPORv^TED. 

cJOHNSTOWN,  N.Y.,US.A. 


COPYRIGHT 


15      BY   THE  CHAS. 


KNOX    CO.,    INC.,    JOHNSTOWN,    N.    Y. 


Jdiox 
X)amti/Desserts  ^^ 

'Dainiyj^eople 


HERE  is  no  part  of  the  meal  which  demands  more  thought 
than  the  dessert.  We  are  all  content  with  the  good  old 
standbys  for  the  principal  courses,  but  with  desserts  it  is 
different.  Our  hunger  is  partially  satisfied  by  the  time 
they  appear,  and  we  are  in  a  more  critical  mood.  We 
want  something  attractive  to  look  at,  and  something  that 
will  gratify  our  sense  of  taste  and  not  make  too  serious  demands  upon 
our  digestion.  The  pies  and  hot  puddings  of  our  grandmother's  days 
have  waned  in  popularity,  and  in  their  places  are  to  be  found  cold  and 
frozen  desserts.  For  the  making  of  these  new  dishes  gelatine  is  indis- 
pensable. It  may  be  used  in  an  almost  endless  variety  of  ways.  It 
makes  possible  numberless  dishes,  not  less  delightful  to  the  eye  than 
pleasing  to  the  palate,  and  opens  the  door  to  constantly  new  achieve- 
ments in  culinary  inventions.  And  gelatine  is  not  limited  in  Its  use  to 
the  dessert  course.  It  does  service  in  the  making  of  other  savory 
dishes  from  soup  to  dessert.  It  is  a  boon  in  the  preparation  of  every 
part  of  the  meal. 

Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  is  made  under  the  very  best  sanitary 
conditions  and  from  the  very  best  materials,  and  when  it  is  made  into 
jelly  it  produces  that  clear,  sparkling  effect  which  has  made  it  so  justly 
celebrated. 

It  is  our  hope  that  with  the  aid  of  this  little  book  the  housewife 
will  find  the  making  of  a  great  variety  of  appetizing,  nourishing  and 
attractive  dishes  easier  and  more  pleasant. 

It  must  be  remembered,  however,  that  the  recipes  in  this  book  are 
prepared  for  use  with  Knox  Gelatine  only,  and  to  have  good  results 
no  other  gelatine  can  be  used. 

Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  is  endorsed  by  the  leading  Pure  Food  Ex- 
perts, and  is  used  daily  in  homes  and  by  domestic  science  teachers  and 
teachers  of  cookery  in  the  foremost  cooking  schools  and  hospital  train- 
ing classes  in  the  United  States  and  Canada,  and  the  experience  of 
these  people  has  taught  them  to  use  none  but  the  best. 

Each  package  of  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  and  Knox  Acidulated 
Gelatine  is  sold  under  the  positive  GUARANTEE  of  money  back  if 
for  any  reason  you  are  not  satisfied. 


"^ 


Y<^5^ 


Knox  Sparkling  Granulated  Gelatine  is  put  up  in  two  packages. 
No.  1  is  the  Plain  Sparkling  (yellow  package),  and  is  the  original,  un- 
flavored,  unsweetened  gelatine.  No.  3  is  the  Sparkling  Acidulated 
(blue  package).  Both  packages  are  alike,  containing  two  envelopes  of 
gelatine,  and  an  envelope  of  Pink  Vegetable  Coloring  for  making  a  col- 
ored dessert,  salad  or  icing  for  cake,  and  make  the  same  quantity — 
TWO  QUARTS  of  jelly.  The  only  difference  between  the  two  packages 
is  that  the  No.  3  Acidulated  contains  an  envelope  of  Lemon  Flavoring, 
which  takes  the  place  of  lemon  juice  and  affords  a  ready  prepared 
flavoring.  The  flavoring  and  coloring  are  not  mixed  with  the  gelatine 
in  either  package,  but  packed  in  separate  envelopes,  thus  leaving  it  to 
the  purchasers  to  use  them  or  not  as  they  desire.  With  the  No.  1  Plain 
package  the  natural  fruit  juices  of  lemons,  oranges,  etc.,  are  used  for 
flavoring,  while  with  the  No.  3  Acidulated  (Busy  Housekeeper's)  pack- 
age the  Lemon  Flavormg  is  furnished  in  concentrated  form  ready  for 
use.   All  that  is  added  is  water  and  sugar,  and  the  jelly  is  ready  to  mold. 

Housekeepers  will  have  no  trouble  in  measuring  Knox  Gelatine, 
as  it  is  already  measured  in  two  envelopes,  each  one  making  one  quart 
of  jelly.  This  makes  it  very  convenient  when  less  than  a  full  package 
is  to  be  used,  and  being  so  divided  it  may  be  used  in  serving  a  small 
family  as  well  as  a  large  party. 


Birthday  Cake 
(See  Page  41) 


^ 


w 


QUANTITY  OF  LIQUID  JELLIED  BY  A  PACKAGE  OF 
KNOX  SPARKLING  GELATINE 

Each  package  of  Knox  Gelatine  makes  TWO  QUARTS  of  jelly — 
FOUR  TIMES  as  much  as  the  ready  prepared  packages  on  the  market 
that  make  but  one  pint.    That  is  why  Knox  Gelatine  is  so  economical. 

In  the  summer,  however,  and  especially  if  the  dish  is  to  be  served 
within  two  hours  after  molding,  it  is  advisable  to  decrease  slightly  the 
quantity  of  liquid.  In  making  aspic  jelly,  for  molding  meat,  fish,  and 
salad,  where  heavy  materials  are  to  be  held  up,  one  package  of  Knox 
Sparkling  Gelatine  will  be  required  for  each  five  cups  of  liquid.  Re- 
member that  a  package  (two  envelopes)  of  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine 
will  jell  two  quarts  of  liquid,  one-half  package  (one  envelope)  one  quart, 
and  one-fourth  package  (one-half  envelope)  one  pint.  In  trying  a  new 
recipe,  estimate  the  full  quantity  of  liquid  required  by  the  recipe,  and 
see  that  the  quantity  of  gelatine  is  proportioned  correctly. 

TO  MOLD  AND  UNMOLD  GELATINE  MIXTURES  QUICKLY 

By  the  use  of  crushed  ice  and  rock  salt,  jelly  made  with  Knox 
Gelatine  may  be  molded  at  any  season  in  one  hour.  When  ice  and  salt 
are  not  at  hand,  set  the  dish  containing  the  gelatine  mixture  in  cold 
water,  or  in  salt  and  water.  In  winter  the  mold  may  be  packed  in  snow, 
or  covered  and  set  out  of  doors. 

To  unmold,  immerse  the  mold  to  the  top  in  warm — not  hot — water; 
then  slightly  loosen  the  jelly  at  the  edge,  turning  the  mold  meanwhile 
from  side  to  side,  then  place  serving  dish  on  top  of  mold  and  invert  and 
carefully  remove  the  mold.  A  delicate  jelly  cannot  be  moved  easily 
after  it  has  been  unmolded,  so  that  care  must  be  taken  to  place  it  evenly 
on  the  dish.  If  before  unmolding  a  lace  paper  doily  is  placed  evenly 
over  the  mold,  so  that  when  inverted  the  doily  is  between  the  gelatine 
mixture  and  the  serving  dish,  the  jelly  can  be  moved  at  will  on  the  paper. 

CA  UTION — The  liquid  quantities  in  the  recipes  in  this  book  are  based  on  Wine  MeaS' 
urement  (U.  S.  Standard)  and  are  correct.  However,  when  using  the  Imperial  or  Metric 
System,  a  quart  of  which  measures  more  than  one  quart  Wine  Measure,  this  should  he 
taken  into  consideration  and  less  water  or  more  gelatine  used. 


LAYING  THE  TABLE  FOR  DINNER  OR  LUNCHEON 

Lay  a  plate  for  each  person.  At  the  right  of  the  plate  place  an 
oyster  fork,  soup  spoon  and  knives  in  the  order  of  use,  the  one  first  used 
farthest  from  the  plate.  At  the  left  of  the  plate  lay  the  forks,  in  order 
of  use,  the  one  first  used  farthest  from  the  plate.  Have  the  tines  of  the 
forks  and  the  bowls  of  the  spoons  turned  upward,  and  the  cutting  edges 
of  the  knives  toward  the  plate. 

Place  the  napkin,  folded,  at  the  left  of  the  forks;  or,  when  soup  is 
served,  if  desired,  the  napkin  may  be  folded  and  placed  on  the  plate 
with  a  roll  or  small  piece  of  bread  partly  folded  within  it.  Set  the 
glass  for  water  above  the  knife.  If  wine  glasses  are  to  be  used,  set 
the  glass  for  water  above  the  plate  and  near  the  center  of  the  cover, 
and  set  the  wine  glasses  to  the  right  in  a  half  circle,  the  one  to  be  first 
used  the  farthest  to  the  right  and  nearest  the  hand. 


SEATING  GUESTS  AT  TABLE 

The  success  of  a  formal  dinner  depends  greatly  upon  the  selection 
of  the  guests  and  the  order  in  which  they  are  seated  at  the  table. 

The  host  and  hostess  should  sit  directly  opposite  each  other.  The 
ladies  and  gentlemen  should  sit  in  alternate  seats  between  the  host  and 
hostess.  The  alternate  arrangement  may  be  followed  with  six  or  ten 
persons,  but  not  when  eight  or  twelve  are  present. 

When  dinner  is  announced  the  host  should  enter  the  dining  room 
with  the  guest  of  honor.  Then  the  men  guests  should  escort  the  ladies 
into  the  room.  The  hostess  with  the  man  guest  of  honor  should  be  the 
last  to  enter.  The  guests  should  stand  back  of  their  chairs  until  the 
hostess  is  seated,  and  each  man  should  adjust  the  chair  for  the  lady  he 
is  escorting  and  see  that  she  is  comfortably  seated  before  he  takes  his 
place  at  her  side. 

SERVING  FORMAL  MEALS 

Meals  are  served  either  from  the  dining  table  or  by  waitress  or 
butler  from  the  serving  table  and  pantry.  The  custom  now  is  to  have 
the  dishes  passed  to  each  guest,  the  meats,  etc.,  being  carved  into 
convenient  size  for  the  purpose.  They  are  passed  to  the  left  of  the 
guests.  All  dishes,  glasses,  etc.,  not  again  required  on  the  table  should 
be  removed  from  the  left  when  the  next  course  is  served. 

SERVING  THE  SALAD 

Salad,  served  with  the  roast  or  game  (on  small  chilled  plates),  is 
eaten  with  the  fork  provided  for  that  course.  A  salad  fork  is  supplied 
for  a  salad  served  as  a  separate  course.  This  is  placed  when  the  table 
is  laid,  according  to  the  position  of  the  salad  in  the  menu,  or  just  before 
the  salad  is  passed. 

SERVING  THE  DESSERT 

For  the  dessert  course,  spoons  or  forks  are  usually  supplied  when 
the  table  is  set,  or  if  one  prefers  they  may  be  placed  for  this  course  after 
the  table  has  been  cleared.  They  are  laid  at  the  right  of  the  space  to 
be  occupied  by  the  plate.  When  serving  the  dessert  with  but  one 
maid  in  attendance,  and  empty  plates  or  plates  with  finger  bowls  are 
to  be  set  before  the  guests,  and  the  dessert  to  be  brought  in  afterwards, 
place  the  plates  before  the  silver.  If  the  dessert  is  to  be  brought  in  on 
individual  plates,  place  the  silver,  then  bring  in  the  dessert. 


w 


SECTIONS  Pages 

Jellies 7-9 

Cold  Desserts 10-19 

Frozen  Desserts 20-25 

Salads  and  Savories 26-34 

Candies 35-37 

Invalid  and  Convalescent  Recipes  38-39 
Additional  Uses 40-41 

Bisque,  Marron 24 

Blanc  Mange,  Evaporated  Milk..  10 

Blanc  Mange,  Plain  and  Chocolate  16 

yy/      Bomb,  Pineapple 25 

XY^       Broth,  Mushroom 33 

'A\      Cafe  i  la  Carlos 24 

Charlotte,  Orange  and  Apple 16 

Charlotte  Russe,  Almond  Caramel  16 

Charlotte  Russe,  Angel 15 

Charlotte  Russe,  Grape  Juice. ...  15 

Chicken,  Jellied 28 

Coupe,  Strawberry 20 

Cream,  Cocoajiut,  Macaroon,  Can- 
ton, Prune  Oriental  and  Spanish  12 

Cream,  Marshmallow 14 

Creams,   Bavarian 11 

Dessert,  Easter 17 

Frappe,  Nut 17 

Frappe,  Canteloupe,  Cranberry  . .  21 

Fruited  Sponge  or  Cup  Cakes.,  .  9 

Ice  Cream,  Baked 24 

Ice  Cream,  Custard 22 

Ice  Creams,  Vanilla  and  Other. . .  21 

Ices,  Lemon  and  Other 20 

Jelly,  Lemon,  Orange  and  Coffee.  7 

Jelly,  Cider  and  Date  Charlotte..  8 

Jelly,  Grape  Fruit  and  Wine 8 

Jelly,  Grape  Juice  and  Pineapple.  9 

Jelly,  Rhubarb 9 

Jelly,  Chartreuse  of 16 

Jelly,  Mint 32 

Jelly,  Tomato 30 

Jellies,  Aspic 32 


Pages 

Jellied  Celery 33 

Jellied  Vegetable  Ring 28 

Loaf,  Veal 33 

Mold  with  Pineapple,  Rice 17 

Mold,  Salmon 27 

Mousse,  Ham  and  Chicken 28 

Mousses,  Chocolate  and  Other  ...  24 

Parfait  with  Candied  Fruit,  Angel  25 

Parfait,  Rice  and  Maple  Rice 25 

Pears,  Molded 9 

Prunes,  Jellied 9 

Pudding,  Columbia 12 

Pudding,  Condensed  Milk 10 

Pudding,  Chocolate  Plum 18 

Pudding,  St.  Regis 18 

Pudding,  Macedoine  and  Royal..  19 

Pudding,  Peach  Cabinet 19 

Pudding,  Marshmallow,  Newport.  14 

Pudding,  Nesselrode 25 

Punch,  Cluff 23 

Relish,  Meat  or  Fish 33 

St.  Jacque,  Coupe 20 

Salad,  Perfection  and  Tuna  Fish  .  26 

Salad,  Jewel,  Cheese,   Cucumber.  27 

Salad,  Luncheon 28 

Salad,   Knox,  Shrimp,  Apple  and 

Grape  Fruit  and  Fruit  Supreme  29 

Salad,  Tomato  Jelly 30 

Salad,  Frozen  Tomato  Cream  ....  31 

Salad, Asparagus,  Frozen  Fruit ...  31 

Salad,  Sweetbread  and  Macedoine  33 

Salad,  Crab  and  Indian 34 

Sherbet,  Mint 20 

Sherbet,  Fruit,  Milk,  Grape  Juice  22 
Sherbet,  Orange  Cream,  Watermel- 
on and  Grape  Fruit 23 

Snow  Balls,  Peach 16 

Souffle,  Grape  Juice  and  Coffee...  17 

Sponges,  Lemon  and  Other 13 

Tongue  in  Aspic,  Corned 34 

Trifle.  Orange 18 


IMPORTANT — Lemon  Juice  is  used  in  a  number  of  recipes  in  this  hook.  For  those  who 
prefer  our  Acidulated  package,  the  Lemon  Flavor  contained  therein  may  be  used  in 
place  of  lefnon  juice.  In  some  cases  the  housekeeper  will  have  to  use  her  own  judgment 
as  to  how  much  to  use  and  flavor  the  dish  according  to  taste. 

LEMON  JELLY 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  2  cups  boiling  water. 

1  cup  cold  water.  f  cup  sugar.     ^  cup  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add 
sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved;  then  add  lemon  juice.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth 
into  molds,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

NOTE — To  color  the  above,  or  any  other  jelly,  pink,  use  the  vegetable  color  tablet  found 
in  each  package,  after  dissolving  it  in  a  little  hot  water.  Fruit  juices  may  also  be  used 
to  make  a  colored  jelly. 

ORANGE  JELLY 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  sugar.     1  cup  orange  juice, 

i  cup  cold  water.     2  cups  boiling  water.    2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Jelly. 

COFFEE  JELLY 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  f  cup  sugar, 

i  cup  cold  water.  Juice  of  one  lemon. 

3  cups  clear  strong  coffee,  (J  cup  sherry  wine  if  desired). 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  the  hot  coffee; 
add  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved.  When  cool  strain  over  wine,  if 
used,  and  turn  into  a  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

LEMON  JELLY  WITH  BERRIES 

Turn  two-thirds  Lemon  Jelly  mixture  in  border  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  when  mixture  begins  to  stiffen  garnish  with  blackberries,  and  add  remaining 
mixture.  Chill  thoroughly,  remove  from  mold  to  serving  dish,  and  fill  center  with 
blackberries.    Strawberries  or  raspberries  may  be  used  in  place  of  blackberries. 


i 


& 

I  \ 


2  cups  grape  fruit  juice  and  pulp. 
^  cup  cold  water.  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  I  cup  sherry  wine. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  boiling  water  and  add 
sugar.  Strain,  and  when  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  remaining  ingredients.  Do 
not  pour  into  molds  that  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water  until  jelly  is  ready  to  set 
in  order  to  avoid  settling  of  pulp.  Cut  in  cubes  and  arrange  in  baskets  made 
from  grape  fruit  skins.    Garnish  each  with  a  teaspoonf ul  of  red  Bar-le-duc  preserve. 

CIDER    JELLY 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         3  cups  sweet  cider, 
i  cup  cold  water.  Sugar. 

I. cup  boiling  water. 

Soak  gelatine  five  minutes  in  cold  water.  Dissolve  in  boiling  water  and  add 
cider  and  sugar  to  taste.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  into  mold,  first  dipped 
in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

DATE    CHARLOTTE  JELLY 
1  envelope  Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine.       1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 
J  cup  sugar.  1  cup  dates. 

1  cup  cold  water.  3  cup  pecan  nut  meats. 

2  cups  boiling  water.  h  cup  fruit. 

Soak  gelatine  and  one-half  of  the  envelope  of  lemon  flavoring  in  cold  water 
five  minutes;  add  boiling  water  and  sugar,  and  when  sugar  is  dissolved  add  extract. 
When  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  add  dates,  nut  meats  and  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Pour  into  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers  and  decorate  with  whipped  cream  and  dates. 


WINE 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 
^  cup  cold  water. 
1§  cups  boiling  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water, 
sugar,  wine,  orange  and  lemon  juice;  strain  into  wet  mold  and  chill. 


JELLY 

1  cup  sherry  or  madeira  wine. 

I  cup  orange  juice. 

3  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 


Add 


RHINE    WINE    JELLY 


Few  gratings  from  rind  of  lemon. 

f  cup  sugar. 

1^  cups  Rhine  wine. 

h  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

Few  grains  salt. 


1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
i  cup  cold  water. 

2  cups  hot  water. 

3  inch  piece  stick  cinnamon. 
5  cloves. 
1  allspice  berry. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  To  hot  water  add  cinnamon,  cloves, 
allspice  berry  and  grated  rind;  bring  to  boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  until  reduced 
to  li  cups.  Strain,  add  sugar,  and  let  boil  two  minutes;  then  add  soaked  gelatine. 
As  soon  as  gelatine  is  dissolved  add  wine,  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Strain  into  molds. 
first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

SAUTERNE    JELLY 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         3  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

§  cup  cold  water.  1|  cups  Sauterne. 

li  cups  boiling  water.  Green  coloring. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water;  then  add 
sugar,  lemon  juice  and  Sauterne  and  color  green.  Turn  into  a  shallow  pan,  first 
dipped  in  cold  water,  having  mixture  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  depth.  Chill,  re- 
move from  pan  to  board  and  cut  in  cubes. 


^ 


'W 


/  \ 


GRAPE    JUICE  JELLY 

1  envelope  Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine.       f  cup  sugar. 

i  pint  grape  juice.  1  cup  Malaga  grapes,  skinned,  seeded 

^  cup  cold  water.  and  cut  in  pieces. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 

Soak  gelatine  and  one-half  of  the  lemon  flavoring  in  grape  juice  mixed  with  cold 
water  five  minutes.  Add  boiling  water  and  sugar,  and  when  beginning  to  set  add 
grapes.  Turn  into  a  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  from 
mold  and  garnish  with  candied  violets.     Serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 

RHUBARB    JELLY 
2  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  sugar, 

i  pink  color  tablet.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

J  cup  cold  water.  4  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

1  lb.  rhubarb.  Grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Cut  rhubarb  in  one  inch  pieces,  add 
sugar  and  boiling  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
soaked  gelatine,  coloring,  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped 
in  cold  water,  and  chill.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

JELLIED    PRUNES 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  sugar. 

i  lb.  prunes.  i  cup  lemon  juice. 

2^  cups  cold  water. 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  soak  prunes  for  several  hours  in  two  cups  cold  water,  and 
cook  in  same  water  until  soft;  remove  prunes,  stone,  and  cut  in  quarters.  To  prune 
water  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make  two  cups.  Soak  gelatine  in  half  cup  cold 
water,  dissolve  in  hot  liquid,  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  then  strain,  add  prunes, 
mold  and  chill.  Stir  twice  while  cooling  to  prevent  prunes  from  settling.  Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

PINEAPPLE    JELLY 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

2  cups  cold  water.  f  cup  sugar, 
li  cups  pineapple  juice  (scalded). 

Soak  gelatine  in  one  cup  cold  water  five  minutes.    Heat  pineapple  juice,  mixed 
with  remaining  water,  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over  soaked  gelatine;    then  add 
sugar  and  lemon  juice.    Turn  into  a  mold  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  when  beginning 
to  set  mold  in  slices  of  cooked  pineapple,  fresh  raspberries  or  strawberries. 
NOTE — Fresh  pineapple  fruit  or  juice  must  first  be  scalded,  or  the  jelly  will  not  harden. 

FRUITED  SPONGE  OR  CUP  CAKES 

I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         2  cups  grated  pineapple. 
\  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  thick  cream. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Cook  pineapple  and  sugar  until  thick  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold 
water  five  minutes  and  let  stand  over  boiling  water  until  dissolved.  When  cool  add 
to  stiffly  whipped  cream,  and  beat  into  pineapple.  Cut  off  top  of  individual  sponge 
or  cup  cakes,  hollow  out  center  and  fill  with  above  paste.  Replace  top  of  cake  and 
cover  whole  of  cake  with  frosting  made  according  to  the  recipe  on  page  41, 
and  decorate  with  pieces  of  pineapple  and  figs.  If  desired,  any  fresh  or  canned  fruit 
may  be  used  in  place  of  the  pineapple  for  making  the  paste. 

MOLDED  PEARS 
1  envelope  Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine.       1  can  pears. 
J  cup  cold  water.  f  cup  sugar. 

Drain  pears  from  their  syrup  and  cut  in  thirds.  To  syrup  add  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  2^  cupfuls,  and  sugar.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  let  boil  three 
minutes.  Soak  gelatine,  half  of  the  lemon  flavoring  found  in  the  Acidulated  pack- 
age, and  part  of  the  pink  coloring  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  hot 
syrup.    When  mixture  begins  to  stiffen  mold  in  layers  with  pears  between. 


w 


w 


ORANGE    JELLY,  FRENCH    STYLE 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  as  many  oranges  as  are  desired,  remove 
juice  and  pulp  and  use  in  making  orange  jelly.  With  pinking  iron  or  scissors  cut  the 
edge  of  the  orange  cups  in  scallops  or  points,  and  let  stand  in  ice  water  until  ready 
for  use.  At  serving  time  cut  jelly  in  cubes  and  fill  cups.  Garnish  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored,  and  candied  cherries.    Serve  on  green  leaves. 

CONDENSED  MILK  PUDDING  WITH  ORANGE  JELLY 

1  envelope  Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine.        1  cup  cold  water. 

6  tablespoonfuls  condensed  milk.  |  teaspoonful  lemon  flavor. 

2  cups  hot  water. 

Add  the  condensed  milk  to  the  hot  water.  Place  on  fire,  and  when  beginning 
to  boil  add  gelatine  which  has  been  softened  in  cold  water;  also  a  pinch  of  salt. 
When  cold,  add  the  lemon  flavor  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water. 

Make  an  Orange  Jelly,  following  directions  on  page  7.  Turn  jelly  mixture 
into  a  fancy  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  when  firm  add  the  condensed 
milk  mixture  and  set  away  to  harden. 

EVAPORATED  MILK  BLANC  MANGE 
1  envelope  Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine.        1  cup  hot  water. 
1  cup  cold  water.  ^  teaspoonful  lemon  flavor. 

1  cup  evaporated  milk.  i  cup  sugar. 

Proceed  as  in  above  recipe,  and  mold  with  Orange  Jelly. 


^r%  '^ 


Condensed  Milk 
Pudding 


w 


10 


w 


Knox  No.  3  Acidulated  Gelatine  is  the  "Busy  Housekeeper's"  package.    It  contains 
Lemon  Flavor,  the  basis  of  all  jellies,  and  saves  time,  labor  and  expense. 


BAVARIAN   CREAM   No.    1 

(Without  eggs.) 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         1  cup  scalded  milk. 
^  cup  cold  water.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

1  pint  heavy  cream.  1  teaspoonful  rum,  or 

^  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine,  if  desired. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  hot  milk,  then  add  sugar. 
Set  bowl  containing  mixture  in  pan  of  cold  water,  and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to 
thicken.  Add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  flavoring.  Turn  into  a  mold,  first 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM   No.   2 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  cold  water.  1  pint  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff. 

2  cups  milk.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Yolks  of  four  eggs. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  custard  of  milk,  yolks  of  eggs 
and  sugar;  add  soaked  gelatine,  and  when  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  cream  and 
vanilla.    Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

CHOCOLATE    BAVARIAN    CREAM 

Make  same  as  Bavarian  Cream  No.  1,  adding  two  squares  of  melted,  unsweet- 
ened chocolate  to  the  hot  milk. 

COFFEE    BAVARIAN    CREAM 

Make  same  as  Bavarian  Cream  No.  1,  substituting  one-half  cup  strong  boiled 
coffee  in  place  of  one-half  cup  of  the  milk,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

STRAWBERRY   BAVARIAN  CREAM 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 
i  cup  cold  water.  §  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  strawberry  juice  and  pulp.  1^  cups  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  by  standing  cup  contain- 
ing mixture  in  hot  water.  Strain  into  strawberry  juice  mixed  with  lemon  juice.  Add 
sugar,  and  when  sugar  is  dissolved  set  bowl  containing  mixture  in  pan  of  ice  water 
and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then  fold  in  cream.  Turn  into  wet  mold 
lined  with  strawberries  cut  in  halves,  and  chill.  Garnish  with  fruit,  selected  straw- 
berries and  leaves.     A  delicious  cream  may  also  be  made  with  canned  strawberries. 


uKnox^ 


B 


I 


I  cup  milk. 

\  cup  cooked  prunes,  cut  in  pieces. 

\  cup  chopped  figs. 


COCOANUT   CREAM 
h  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         1  cup  shredded  cocoanut. 
i  cup  cold  water.     3  eggs.  Few  grains  salt. 

1  cup  sugar.     2  cups  milk.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  custard  of  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar 
and  milk;  remove  from  range  and  add  soaked  gelatine.  When  mixture  begins  to 
set,  add  cocoanut,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  salt  and  flavoring.  Line  a  mold 
with  sections  of  orange,  pour  in  mixture  and  chill. 

MACAROON  CREAM 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  \  cup  sugar, 
i  cup  cold  water.  Few  grains  salt. 

3  eggs.  I  cup  pounded  macaroons. 

2  cups  milk.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  custard  of  egg  yolks,  sugar, 
salt,  and  milk.  Add  soaked  gelatine  to  hot  custard,  and  when  nearly  cool,  add  whites 
of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  macaroons  and  vanilla.  Turn  into  individual  molds, 
first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.   For  "French  Cream"  add  one  square  chocolate. 

PRUNE    ORIENTAL    CREAM    {Illustrated  on  Page  3) 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  |  pint  heavy  cream, 

i  cup  cold  water, 
i  cup  scalded  milk. 
I  cup  sugar. 
Whites  of  two  eggs. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  scalded  milk,  and  add 
sugar.  Strain  into  a  bowl,  set  in  pan  containing  ice  water,  and  stir  constantly  until 
mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  heavy  cream, 
diluted  with  milk  and  beaten  until  stiff,  prunes  and  figs.  Turn  into  a  wet  mold,  the 
bottom  and  sides  of  which  are  garnished  with  halves  of  cooked  prunes,  and  chill. 
Remove  from  mold  to  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream  (sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla),  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  chopped 
pistachio  nuts. 

SPANISH    CREAM 
\  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         §  cup  sugar  (scant). 

3  cups  milk.  i  teaspoonful  salt. 
Whites  of  three  eggs.                                    1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  or 
Yolks  of  three  eggs.                                      3  tablespoonfuls  wine,  if  desired. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  milk.  Scald  remaining  milk,  and  pour  slowly  on 
the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  sugar  and  salt  and  return  to  double  boiler. 
Cook  until  mixture  thickens  somewhat.  Remove  from  stove,  and  add  gelatine  and 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Flavor,  and  turn  into  individual  molds,  first  dipped 
in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  More  gelatine  will  be  required 
if  large  molds  are  used. 

COLUMBIA  PUDDING  {Illustrated  on  Page  6) 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  fancy  mold  with  Wine  Jelly  mixture.  Line  upper  part  of 
mold  with  halves  of  figs,  cut  crosswise  and  soaked  in  jelly  mixture  five  minutes, 
having  seed  sides  next  to  mold.  When  both  are  set  fill  with  Spanish  Cream  mix- 
ture and  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  remove  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla  (forced  through  a  pastry  bag 
and  tube)  and  sections  of  glac^d  cherries. 

CANTON   CREAM 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         |  tablespoonful  brandy, 
i  cup  cold  water.     1  cup  milk.  2  tablespoonfuls  ginger  syrupo 

Yolks  of  two  eggs.     Few  grains  salt.  I  cup  Canton  ginger,  cut  an  pieces. 

1  tablespoonful  wine.  1  pint  heavy  cream. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  and  add  to  custard  made  of  milk,  eggs,  sugar,  and 
salt.  Strain,  chill  in  pan  of  ice  water,  add  flavorings,  and  when  mixture  begins  to 
thicken  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff. 


LEMON  SPONGE  OR  SNOW    PUDDING 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  f  cup  sugar, 

i  cup  cold  water.  i  cup  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  Whites  of  two  eggs. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  strain,  and  set  aside;  occasionally  stir 
mixture,  and  when  quite  thick,  beat  with  wire  spoon  or  whisk  until  frothy;  add 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  continue  beating  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape. 
Pile  by  spoonfuls  on  glass  dish.  Chill  and  serve  with  boiled  custard.  A  very  attrac- 
tive dish  may  be  prepared  by  coloring  half  the  mixture  red  with  tablet  found  in  each 
package. 


BANANA 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 

\  cup  cold  water. 

1  cup  banana  pulp. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 


SPONGE 

I  cup  sugar. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
1  dozen  blanched  Pistachio  nuts, 
finely  chopped. 


Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Put  banana  pulp,  lemon  iuice  and 
sugar  in  saucepan,  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly.  Add  soaked 
gelatine,  and  stir  until  cool.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  until  stiff,  turn  into  wet  mold  or  paper  cases,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts. 

PINEAPPLE    SPONGE  (Illustrated  on  Page  23) 
§  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  Few  grains  salt. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs.  |  cup  grated  canned  pineapple. 

Grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  |  cup  cold  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice.  |  cup  heavy  cream. 

^  cup  sugar.  Whites  of  three  eggs. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly,  and  add  grated  rind,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  and  salt. 
Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from 
range,  and  add  gelatine  (which  has  soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes)  and  pineapple. 
When  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove 
from  mold  to  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  whole  and  half  slices  of  canned  pine- 
apple (around  the  edge  of  which  there  is  a  piping  of  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla),  glac6d  cherries,  and  green  leaves. 

MOCHA    SPONGE 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         2  cups  strong  boiled  coffee. 

I  cup  cold  water.  f  cup  sugar.     Whites  of  three  eggs. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  add  to  hot  coffee;  then  add  sugar. 
Strain  into  pan,  set  in  larger  pan  of  ice  water,  cool  slightly,  then  beat,  using  a  wire 
whisk,  until  quite  stiff.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  continue  the  beat- 
ing until  mixture  will  hold  its  shape.  Turn  into  a  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water. 
Chill  thoroughly,  remove  from  mold  and  serve  with  sugar  and  thin  cream. 

MAPLE    SPONGE 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  §  cup  hot  water. 
1^  cups  cold  water.  Whites  of  2  eggs. 

2  cups  brown  or  maple  sugar.  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Put  sugar  and  hot  water  in  saucepan, 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on  soaked 
gelatine.  Cool,  and  when  nearly  set,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and  nut 
meats.  Turn  mto  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Serve  with  custard 
made  of  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  a  few  grams  of  salt,  milk,  and  flavoring. 

CHERRY    SPONGE 

5  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  1^  cups  canned  cherries. 

^  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  canned  cherry  juice. 

1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  §  cup  sugar.     Whites  of  two  eggs. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  hot  cherry  juice.  Add 
cherries,  stoned  and  cut  in  halves,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  When  mixture  begins  to 
set  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  chill.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and 
chopped  cherries.    Other  canned  fruits  may  be  substituted  for  the  cherries 


w 


13 


MARSHMALLOW    PUDDING 


Whites  of  3  eggs. 

I5  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 

Macaroons. 


i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
i  cup  cold  water, 
f  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar, 
and  as  soon  as  dissolved,  set  bowl  containing  mixture  in  pan  of  ice  water;  then  add 
whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  mixture  thickens.  Turn  into  a  shallow 
pan,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Remove  from 
pan  and  cut  in  pieces  the  size  and  shape  of  marshmallows;  then  roll  in  macaroons 
which  have  been  dried  and  rolled.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

NEWPORT   PUDDING 


J  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  cup  sugar. 

i  cup  cold  water. 

Whites  of  three  eggs. 


1|  tablespoonfuls  Sauterne. 
li  tablespoonfuls  sherry. 
Green  coloring. 
Red  coloring. 


Put  sugar  in  small  saucepan,  pour  over  boiling  water,  set  on  range,  bring  to 
boiling  point,  and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Remove  from  range  and  add  gelaline 
which  has  soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Beat  until  mixture  begins  to  stiffen; 
then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  continue  the  beating  twenty  minutes. 
Divide  the  mixture  into  thirds.  To  first  third  add  Sauterne,  to  second  third  add 
one-half  the  sherry  and  color  pink;  to  remaining  third  add  re.maining  sherry  and 
color  green.  Arrange  in  layers  in  a  fancy  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  first  the 
pink,  then  the  white,  then  the  green.    Chill  thoroughly. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM 


i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
i  cup  cold  water. 
^  cup  boiling  water. 
Whites  of  four  eggs. 


1  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 

1^  squares  chocolate. 


Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  boiling  water  and  place 
over  teakettle  until  dissolved.  Cool,  but  do  not  chill.  Stir  sugar  into  dissolved 
gelatine.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  light,  and  to  the  eggs  add  the  gelatine  and 
sugar,  a  few  spoonfuls  at  a  time,  beating  constantly.  Divide  quickly  into  three 
parts.  To  the  first  part  add  part  of  the  pink  color  found  in  package  and  flavor 
with  vanilla;  to  the  second  part  add  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla  flavoring,  and 
flavor  the  third  part  with  lemon. 

Mold  in  layers  in  square  mold,  adding  nuts  to  the  pink  part  and  red  cherries 
to  the  white.  Chill,  cut  in  slices  and  serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream  or  sauce 
made  with  the  yolks  of  eggs.    Attractive  if  served  with  ice  cream  instead  of  cake. 


Marshmallow 
Cream 


'W 


w 


i 


I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 

^  dozen  rolled  stale  macaroons. 

1  dozen  marshmallows,  cut  in  small  pieces. 


1  cup  sugar. 
1  pint  heavy  cream. 
Vanilla  or  sherry, 
i  cup  cold  water. 
i  cup  boiling  water. 


2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  candied  cherries. 
J  lb.  blanched  and  chopped  almonds. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  and  add  sugar.  When 
mixture  is  cold,  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  almonds,  macaroons,  marshmallows 
and  candied  cherries.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  sherry.  Turn  into  a  mold,  first  dipped 
in  cold  water,  and  chill.     Remove  from  mold  and  serve  with  angel  cake. 

This  dessert  may  be  made  more  elaborate  by  cutting  the  top  from  an  angel 
cake  and  removing  some  of  the  inside,  leaving  a  case  with  three-fourths  inch  walls, 
then  filling  case  with  mixture,  replacing  top  of  cake,  covering  with  frosting,  and  gar- 
nishing with  candied  cherries  and  blanched  almonds. 

GRAPE   JUICE   CHARLOTTE   RUSSE 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

i  cup  cold  water.  I5  cups  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff. 

i  cup  boiling  water.  I  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  grape  juice.  Lady  fingers. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add 
grape  juice,  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Stir  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then  fold  in 
cream.  Turn  into  mold  lined  with  lady  fmgers.  Remove  from  mold  and  garnish 
with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  candied  violets. 

CHARLOTTE   RUSSE 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  J  cup  cold  water. 

1\  cups  milk.  I  pint  heavy  cream. 

2  eggs.  3  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  ?  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Few  grains  salt.  Sponge  cake. 

Scald  milk  and  add  gradually  to  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  mixed  with 
sugar  and  salt.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens, 
then  add  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water.  Strain  and  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
stiff.  Set  pan  in  larger  pan  of  ice  water  and  stir,  scraping  from  bottom  and  sides  of 
pan,  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  mixed 
with  sugar  and  vanilla.  Line  round  paper  cases  with  strips  of  sponge  cake,  using 
muffin  rings  to  keep  cases  in  shape.  Fill  with  mixture  and  chill.  Remove  from  cases, 
and  garnish  tops  with  four  narrow  strips  of  cake,  radiating  from  center,  and  garnish 
center  with  a  cube  of  jelly. 

INDIVIDUAL     CHARLOTTE    RUSSE 

Line  a  sherbet  glass  with  lady  fingers,  leaving  a  small  space  between  them.  Fill 
with  any  Bavarian  Cream  mixture  and  chill.  Garnish  with  red  and  green  Maraschino 
cherries. 


Individual 
Charlotte  Russe 


J>' 


'W 


15 


~w 


.y^oyi^ 


ORANGE    CHARLOTTE 


\  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 
\  cup  cold  water. 
\  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 


2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 
1  cup  orange  juice  and  pulp. 
Whites  of  three  eggs. 
Lady  fingers. 


Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add 
sugar,  and  when  dissolved  add  lemon  juice.  Strain,  cool  slightly  and  add  orange  juice 
and  pulp.  When  mixture  begins  to  stiffen  beat,  using  a  wire  whisk,  until  light;  then 
add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Turn  into  mold  lined 
with  lady  fingers.    One  pint  whipped  cream  may  be  used  in  place  of  whites  of  eggs. 

APPLE    CHARLOTTE 

Make  same  as  Orange  Charlotte,  using  cooked  apple  pulp  in  place  of  orange 
juice  and  pulp. 

PEACH   SNOW    BALLS 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  \  cup  boiling  water. 

\  cup  cold  water.  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  canned  peaches,  apricots  or  pine-      Whites  of  three  eggs, 
apple,  pressed  through  a  sieve. 

Make  same  as  Orange  Charlotte,  and  mold  in  egg  cups. 

ALMOND  CARAMEL  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  \  lb.  blanched  almonds,  finely  chopped. 

\  cup  cold  water.  1  pint  heavy  cream,  beaten  stiff. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

\  cup  boiling  water.  1  dozen  lady  fingers. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Let  stand  over  hot  water  until  dis- 
solved. Caramelize  the  sugar  and  add  boiling  water  very  gradually.  Cool  slightly 
and  add  dissolved  gelatine.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  nut  meats,  cream 
and  vanilla.    Pour  into  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers  and  chill. 

BLANC    MANGE 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.        1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  or 
2>\  cups  milk.  1  tablespoonful  rum. 

f  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  half  cup  milk  five  minutes.  Scald  remaining  milk  with  sugar, 
and  add  soaked  gelatine.  Strain,  cool  slightly,  add  flavoring  and  turn  into  a  mold 
first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Serve  with  currant,  strawberry,  or  any  pre- 
ferred jelly.  Accompany  with  sugar  and  thin  cream,  or  boiled  custard.  Substitute 
cream  for  the  milk  and  the  dish  becomes  "Ivory  Jelly." 


M 


MANGE 

1  cup  sugar. 

Few  grains  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


CHOCOLATE    BLANC 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine 
I  cup  cold  water. 

1  quart  milk. 

2  ozs.  grated  unsweetened  chocolate. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Scald  milk  and  add  sugar,  grated 
chocolate  and  salt.  When  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  soaked  gelatine;  then  add  flavor- 
ing. Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Serve  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

CHARTREUSE  OF  JELLY 

Cut  out  the  center  of  a  round  sponge  cake,  leaving  the  bottom  and  sides  thick 
enough  to  hold  a  quart  of  jelly.  Prepare  a  lemon,  orange,  strawberry  or  wine 
jelly,  and  when  it  is  cold  and  just  ready  to  form,  turn  into  the  cake  and  set  aside 
in  a  cool  place  or  on  ice.  When  ready  to  serve  cover  the  top  with  the  chilled  froth 
from  a  cup  of  double  cream  and  a  cup  of  milk  beaten  with  a  whip  churn.  Flavor 
the  cream  with  vanilla  or  wine  and  add  one-fourth  cup  of  confectioner's  sugar  before 
whipping. 


16 


~w 


GRAPE    JUICE    SOUFFLE 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  Whites  of  four  eggs. 

1  pint  grape  juice,  sweetened.  f  cup  heavy  cream. 

Soak  gelatine  in  grape  juice  ten  minutes,  then  heat  in  double  boiler  until 
gelatine  has  dissolved.  Strain  into  bowl  set  in  saucepan  containing  ice  water,  and 
when  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Half  fill 
individual  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  with  mixture.  To  remainder  add 
cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Fill  molds  with  cream  mixture,  and  chill.  Remove  from 
molds  to  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream  (sweetened  and  flavored 
delicately  with  vanilla),  candied  violets  and  green  leaves. 

COFFEE    SOUFFLE 
h  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         i  teaspoonful  salt 
1^  cups  strong  boiled  coffee.  3  eggs. 

i  cup  milk.  §  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

5  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  coffee.  Mix  remaining  coffee,  milk  and  one- 
half  of  the  sugar  and  heat  in  double  boiler.  Add  remaining  sugar,  salt  and  yolks  of 
eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Cook  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  range,  add 
softened  gelatine,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and  vanilla.  Mold,  chill,  and 
serve  with  cream. 

RICE    MOLD   WITH    PINEAPPLE 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  Few  grains  salt. 

i  cup  cold  water  1  cup  cooked  rice. 

I  cup  scalded  pineapple  juice.  1  cup  whipped  cream. 

^  cup  sugar.  1  tablespoonf  ul  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  by  standing  cup  in  hot 
water.  Add  pineapple  juice,  sugar  and  salt  to  rice.  Strain  into  this  the  gelatine, 
and  mix  thoroughly;  cool  slightly,  and  add  whipped  cream  and  lemon  juice.  Turn 
into  mold  lined  with  slices  of  canned  pineapple.  Chill,  and  serve  with  or  without 
whipped  cream.    Other  fruits  may  be  used  in  place  of  pineapple. 

AN  EASTER   DESSERT 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  f  cup  sugar. 

I  cup  cold  water.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

2|  cups  milk  or  cream,  scalded.  Few  grains  salt. 

Soften  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  the  hot  milk; 
add  the  sugar  and  flavoring.  Wash  a  dozen  large  eggs,  make  a  pin  hole  in  one  end 
of  each  shell,  a  larger  opening  in  the  other  end,  then  shake  out  the  contents  from 
the  shell;  rinse  the  shells  clean  and  drain;  pour  the  chilled  but  liquid  pudding 
through  a  funnel  into  the  shells  and  set  them  in  an  upright  position  in  a  pan  of 
broken  ice  or  salt.  When  ready  to  serve,  remove  the  shells  and  arrange  the  contents 
in  a  nest  of  orange,  lemon  or  wine  jelly,  or  spun  sugar  may  be  used  for  the  nest.  Serve 
vvith  whipped  cream. 

NOTE — •//  desired,  divide  the  above  mixture  into  three  equal  parts,  leaving  mixture  as 
it  is  for  white  eggs,  adding  dissolved  chocolate  to  the  second  part  to  make  brown  eggs,  and 
to  the  third  part  adding  a  small  portion  of  the  pink  vegetable  color  tablet  found  in  each 
package,  after  dissolving  in  a  little  hot  water,  to  make  pink  eggs. 

NUT  FRAPPE 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  cream. 

1  cup  cold  water.  f  cup  milk. 

§  cup  sugar.  White  of  one  egg. 

1  cup  cooked  pineapple  and  strawberries.  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add 
dissolved  gelatine  to  cream,  milk  and  sugar  and  stir  in  beaten  white  of  egg.  When 
cold,  add  the  pineapple  and  strawberries  which  have  been  chopped  in  small  pieces, 
also  the  chopped  nuts.     Serve  ice  cold  in  sherbet  glasses. 


'W 


17 


ORANGE    TRIFLE 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  orange  juice. 

I  cup  cold  water.  Grated  rind  of  one  orange. 

1§  cups  boiling  water.  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  sugar.  §  pint  heavy  cream. 

Soak  gelatine  five  minutes  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar, 
orange  juice,  grated  rind  and  lemon  juice  and  strain.  Pour  one-half  the  mixture  into 
a  shallow  pan,  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Set  bowl  containing  remaining  mix- 
ture in  pan  of  ice  water  and  stir  constantly,  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then 
fold  in  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  ring  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  chill.  Remove  mixture  from  ring  mold  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with 
glaced  cherries,  cut  to  represent  flowers,  and  angelica  cut  to  represent  leaves  and 
stems.     Fill  center  with  first  part  removed  from  pan  and  cut  in  cubes. 

ST.    REGIS   PUDDING 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  |  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 


i  cup  boiling  water. 
{  cup  cold  water, 
i  cup  sugar, 
i  cup  sherry  wine. 
i  cup  apricot  syrup. 

Bring  hot  water  and  sugar  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  one  minute.  Add  sherry 
wine,  apricot  syrup,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water.  To  raisins 
add  brandy  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  raisins  are  plump.  Add  to  jelly  mixture 
with  apricots  cut  in  small  pieces.  Turn  into  a  mold,  chill  thoroughly,  remove  from 
mold  and  serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE 
]  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
f  cup  cold  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 
^  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
1  cup  seeded  raisins. 
5  cup  dates  or  figs,  if  desired. 

Soak    gelatine  in  cold  water  five 
melted  chocolate,  and  when  scalding 
gelatine.    Remove  from  fire  and  when 
and  nut  meats.     Turn  into  mold,  first 
serving  dish  and  garnish  with  holly, 
flavored  with  vanilla 


Few  grains  of  salt. 

I  cup  seedless  raisins. 

i  cup  brandy. 

I  cup  canned  apricots,  cut  in  pieces. 


PLUM    PUDDING 

J  cup  sliced  citron  or  nuts,  as  preferred. 

I  cup  currants. 

1^  squares  chocolate, 

1  pint  milk. 

Pinch  salt. 

minutes.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  add 
point  is  reached  add  sugar,  salt  and  soaked 
mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  vanilla,  fruit 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  to 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and 


IMPORTANT — Lemon  Juice  is  used  in  a  number  of  recipes  in  this  hook.  For  those  who 
prefer  our  Acidulated  package,  the  Lemon  Flavor  contained  therein  may  be  used  in 
place  of  lemon  juice.  In  some  cases  the  housekeeper  will  have  to  use  her  own  judgment 
as  to  how  much  to  use  and  flavor  the  dish  according  to  taste. 


}k 


MACEDOINE    PUDDING 

f  tablespoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  §  lb.  marshmallows,  cut  in  pieces. 

1  tablespoonful  cold  water.  1  cup  heavy  cream. 

2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water.  2  tabiespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 
i  cup  Maraschino  cherries.                            i  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

^  cup  English  walnut  meats,  cut  in  pieces. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Beat 
cream  until  stiff,  add  powdered  sugar,  vanilla  and  dissolved  gelatine.  When  mix- 
ture begins  to  stiffen,  add  chopped  cherries,  nut  meats  and  marshmallows.  Turn 
into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

PEACH   CABINET  PUDDING 
\  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  2  cups  milk. 

1  can  peaches.  Yolks  of  three  eggs. 

i  cup  powdered  sugar.  Whites  of  three  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine.  i  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  brandy.  i  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water. 

Drain  peaches,  cut  in  quarters,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  pour  over 
sherry  and  brandy.  Make  a  custard  of  milk,  egg  yolks,  sugar  and  salt,  and  just  be- 
fore removing  from  fire  add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water.  Strain,  and  when  slightly 
cooled  add  one-half  cup  liquor  drained  from  peaches.  Stir  until  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Line  a  mold  with  peaches,  pour  in 
custard  and  chill. 

ROYAL   PUDDING 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         i  teaspoonful  salt. 

\  cup  cold  water.  1  tablespoonful  brandy  or  |  teaspoonful 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  vanilla. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs.  5  lady  fingers. 
\  cup  sugar.  6  macaroons. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  add  to  custard  made  of  milk,  eggs 
sugar  and  salt.  Strain,  cool  slightly  and  add  flavoring.  Place  mold  in  pan  of  ice 
water.  Decorate  with  candied  cherries  and  angelica;  cover  with  mixture,  adding 
carefully  by  spoonfuls.  When  firm,  add  layer  of  lady  fingers,  first  soaked  in  custard, 
then  layer  of  macaroons,  also  soaked  in  custard.  Repeat,  care  being  taken  that  each 
layer  is  firm  before  another  is  added.  Chill,  remove  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  candied  cherries. 


"Desserts 


LEMON    ICE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     2  cups  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  cold  water.  f  cup  lemon  juice. 

4  cups  boiling  water. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and 
sugar  twenty  minutes,  and  add  dissolved  gelatine  and  lemon  juice;  cool,  strain  and 
freeze. 

COUPE    ST.    JACOUE 

Cut  in  dices  all  kinds  of  fresh  fruit  in  season,  place  in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  one  gill 
of  Maraschino,  one-half  gill  of  wine  or  cordial  and  some  powdered  sugar.  Place  in 
ice  box  until  it  is  thoroughly  chilled  and  serve  in  a  sherbet  glass,  covering  the  fruit 
with  lemon  water  ice  made  according  to  the  preceding  recipe,  and  ornament  with 
a  Maraschmo  cherry.  This  quantity  of  Maraschino  and  wine  or  cordial  is  enough 
for  eight  coup6s. 

MINT    SHERBET 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Ice,  adding  four  tabiespoonf uls  bruised  mint  leaves  to  the 
boiling  syrup.    Strain  and  freeze.    A  delicious  accompaniment  to  lamb. 

CREME   DE   MENTHE   ICE 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Ice,  adding  four  tabiespoonf  uls  cr6me  de  menthe,  when 
frozen  to  a  mush,  then  continuing  the  freezing. 

STRAWBERRY    ICE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     1  quart  box  strawberries. 
1  cup  sugar.  i  tablespoonful  cold  water. 

1  cup  water.  |  tablespoonful  boiling  water. 

Lemon  juice. 

Sprinkle  berries  with  sugar,  cover,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Mash,  squeeze 
through  cheese  cloth,  and  add  water  and  lemon  juice  to  taste;  then  add  gelatine 
soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolved  in  boiling  water.    Strain  and  freeze. 

STRAWBERRY    COUPE 

Mix  one-half  cup  each  shredded  pineapple  and  sections  of  oranges,  cut  in 
pieces,  and  one-fourth  cup  thin  slices  of  bananas,  cut  in  pieces.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  powdered  sugar  and  a  few  grains  salt.  Cover  and  let  stand  in  ice  box  until 
thoroughly  chilled.  Arrange  fruit  in  eight  coupd  glasses  and  fill  with  Strawberry 
Ice.  Garnish  each  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  five  selected  strawberries. 

ORANGE    ICE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     2  cups  orange  juice. 

1  tablespoonful  cold  water.  i  cup  lemon  juice. 

4  cups  hot  water.  Grated  rind  of  two  oranges. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes;  make  a  syrup  by  boiling  hot  water  and 
sugar  twenty  minutes.  Add  soaked  gelatine,  fruit  juices  and  grated  rind.  Cool 
strain  and  freeze.    Other  fruit  juices  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  orange  juice. 


w 


w 


VANILLA  PHILADELPHIA   ICE   CREAM 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  2  cups  sugar. 

^  cup  cold  milk.  2  tabiespoonfuls  vanilla. 

1  quart  scalded  milk.  Few  grains  salt. 

1  quart  cream. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  milk  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  scalded  milk.  Add  sugar, 
and  when  sugar  is  dissolved  strain  mixture  into  cream,  and  add  flavoring.  Freeze, 
using  three  parts  finely  crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt.  Serve  with  maple  sauce 
and  chopped  pecan  nut  meats.  If  part  of  the  cream  is  whipped  and  added  when 
partly  frozen,  it  will  improve  it, 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.    1  quart  thin  cream. 

2  tabiespoonfuls  cold  water.  1  cup  sugar. 

1|  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  Few  grains  salt. 

I  cup  boiling  water.  1  tablespoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Melt  chocolate  and  add  boiling  water 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly.  Add  soaked  gelatine,  and  when  dissolved  add 
remaining  ingredients.     Freeze. 

CARAMEL    ICE    CREAM 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,      if  cups  sugar. 

1  quart  milk.  i  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  cream.  1  tablespoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk  ten  minutes.  Caramelize  one  cup  sugar 
by  putting  in  a  granite  saucepan  and  place  over  hot  fire,  stirring  constantly  until 
melted  and  of  the  color  of  maple  syrup.  Add  one  cup  hot  water  and  simmer  on  back 
of  stove  until  of  the  consistency  of  a  thick  syrup.  Add  ^  cup  sugar  to  the  balance 
of  the  milk  and  scald.  Add  dissolved  gelatine,  salt  and  the  caramel.  When  cold 
add  flavoring  and  cream;  strain  and  freeze.  If  preferred,  the  cream  may  be  whipped 
and  added  when  the  mixture  is  partly  frozen. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM 
J  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,         2  cups  sugar. 
I  cup  cold  milk.  1  quart  thin  cream. 

3i  cups  scalded  milk.  Whites  of  three  eggs. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs.  3  tabiespoonfuls  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  custard  of  milk,  yolks  of 
eggs  and  sugar.  Add  soaked  gelatine  and  cream,  and  strain.  When  cold,  add  va- 
nilla and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  continue  the 
freezing.    Serve  with  Chocolate  Sauce  and  chopped  walnut  meats. 

CANTALOUPE    FRAPPE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     I  teaspoonful  salt. 
i  cup  cold  water.  §  cup  sherry  wine. 

2  large  cantaloupes.  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 
i  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Dissolve  over  hot  water  and  strain 
into  cantaloupe  pulp,  of  which  there  should  be  two  cups.  Add  remaining  ingredients 
and  freeze.  Serve  in  the  rind  of  the  melons,  cut  to  represent  baskets  with  or  without 
handles.  To  prepare  the  cantaloupe  pulp,  remove  seeds,  scrape  pulp  from  rind  and 
force  through  a  puree  strainer. 

CRANBERRY    FRAPPE     « 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  quart  cranberries. 

1  cup  cold  water.  2J  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  boiling  water,  4  tabiespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold'water  five  minutes.  Cook  cranberries  in  boiling  water  until 
soft;  then  force  through  a  puree  strainer.  Add  soaked  gelatine,  sugar  and  lemon 
juice,  and  freeze.    A  delicious  accompaniment  to  roast  turkey. 


21 


w 


CUSTARD   ICE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     1  cup  sugar  (scant  measure). 
1  quart  milk.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

3  eggs.  Few  grains  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  yolks 
of  eggs,  sugar  and  salt,  and  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  hot  custard.  Strain,  and 
when  cold  add  flavoring  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  continue  the  freezing. 

FRUIT  SHERBET 

vy  {Economical) 

h  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  (scant  measure). 

1\  cups  sugar.  3  cups  rich  milk. 

1  orange.  1  lemon. 

Grate  the  outside  of  both  orange  and  lemon.  Squeeze  out  the  juice  and  add 
to  this  the  sugar.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  part  of  a  cup  of  milk  for  five  minutes,  and 
dissolve  by  standing  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Stir  into  the  rest  of  the  milk.  When  it 
begins  to  freeze  add  the  fruit  juice  and  sugar,  and  fruit  of  any  kind  if  desired.  This 
makes  a  large  allowance  for  five  persons. 

MILK    SHERBET 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     IJ  cups  sugar. 

1  quart  milk.  Juice  of  three  lemons. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of  the  milk  five  minutes.  Dissolve  over  hot  water 
and  strain  into  remainder  of  milk.  Mix  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  add  slowly  to  milk 
mixture,  and  freeze.     For  a  richer  sherbet  use  half  cream  and  half  milk. 

GRAPE  JUICE  SHERBET 
\  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         1  pint  grape  juice. 
h  cup  cold  water.  4  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

1^  cups  boiling  water.  \  cup  orange  juice. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and 
hot  water  ten  minutes,  and  add  soaked  gelatine.  Cool  slightly  and  add  fruit 
juices;  then  freeze.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  and  garnish  with  candied  violets  or 
fruit,  if  desired. 


Knox   No.    3    Acidulated 

contains  Lemon  Flavor,  th 


Gelatine   is   the   "Busy    Housekeeper's"    package.     It 
J  basis  of  all  jellies,  and  saves  time,  labor  and  expense. 


1  pint  heavy  cream. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 
Few  grains  salt. 


ORANGE   CREAM   SHERBET 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     1|  cups  orange  juice. 

^  cup  cold  water. 

1^  cups  boiling  water. 

1^  cups  sugar. 

Grated  rind  of  two  oranges. 

1  cup  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Dissolve  gelatine  and  sugar  in 
boiling  water;  add  orange  rind,  lemon  juice  and  orange  juice.  Turn  into  ice 
cream  freezer  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Beat  cream  until  stiff,  and  add  sugar  and  salt. 
Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored  and 
whites  until  stiff,  and  add  to  cream.  Turn  into  frozen  mixture  and  continue  the 
freezing. 

WATERMELON    SHERBET 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  2  cups  sugar. 

I  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  orange  juice. 

4  cups  hot  water.  2  cups  watermelon  cubes. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes.  Make  syrup  by  boiling  hot  water 
and  sugar  ten  minutes  and  add  soaked  gelatine  and  orange  juice.  Strain,  chill  and 
freeze  to  mush.    Add  watermelon  cubes  and  let  stand  one  hour. 

GRAPE    FRUIT    SHERBET 

^  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     2  cups  grape  fruit  juice. 
1  tablespoonf ul  cold  water.  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  Few  grains  salt. 

J  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and 
sugar  one  minute.  Add  soaked  gelatine,  cool  slightly  and  add  remaining  ingredi- 
ents.   Strain  and  freeze,  using  three  parts  finely  crushed  ice  and  one  part  rock  salt. 

CLUFF 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 


4  cups  cold  water. 
2  cups  sugar. 
Juice  of  six  oranges. 


PUNCH 

4  tablespoonfuls  lemon  Juice. 

5  tablespoonful  rum. 
1  cup  champagne, 

i  cup  brandy. 


Soak  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  syrup 
by  boiling  the  remaining  water  and  sugar  twenty  minutes.  Add  soaked  gelatine, 
cool  and  add  fruit  juices.  Freeze  to  a  mush,  then  add  rum,  champagne  and  brandy, 
and  continue  freezing.     Let  stand  two  hours. 


Pineapple 

Sponge 

(See  Page  13) 


w 


23 


w 


w 


/  \ 


1  cup  sugar. 

2^  cups  heavy  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,     f  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  cold  water.  '  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  scalded  pineapple  juice.  1  pint  heavy  cream. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  in  hot  pineapple  juice. 
Add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  and  when  cool  add  cream  beaten  stiff.  Beat  mixture 
until  stiff,  using  an  egg  beater,  and  fill  wet  mold  to  overflowing  with  mixture.  Ad- 
just cover,  pack  in  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand 
four  hours.  Remove  from  mold  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  half  slices  of 
canned  pineapple  and  candied  cherries. 

CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 
J  cup  cold  water. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Melt  chocolate  in  boiling  water  and 
add  soaked  gelatine;  then  add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Cool  and  add  cream,  beaten  stiff. 
Fill  a  chilled  mold  with  mixture,  having  mixture  overflow  mold,  adjust  cover,  pack 
in  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand  four  hours. 

RASPBERRY    MOUSSE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
I  cup  cold  water.     I  cup  boiling  water.       1  cup  raspberry  juice. 
1  pint  heavy  cream.  Few  grains  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  boiling  water  and  cool. 
Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add  dissolved  gelatine  and  remaining  ingredients  and 
whole  berries  if  desired.  Fill  chilled  mold  with  mixture,  adjust  cover,  pack  in 
rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand  three  hours. 

cafe'  a   la   CARLOS 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  sugar. 

i  cup  cold  water.  Yolks  of  three  eggs. 

1  cup  strong  coffee,  boiled.  1  pint  heavy  cream,  beaten  stiff. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  custard  of  coffee,  sugar  and 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  add  soaked  gelatine.  Cool,  add  cream  and  freeze.  Serve  in  parfait 
glasses;  garnish  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  glaced  cherries  or  any  fancy  fruit. 

MARRON    BISQUE 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  pint  heavy  cream, 

i  cup  cold  milk.  1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

2  eggs.  1  cup  prepared  French  chestnuts. 

Soak  .gelatine  in  cold  milk  ten  minutes.  Add  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  to 
scalded  milk;  then  add  soaked  gelatine.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla  to  cream  and  com- 
bine mixtures;  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  chestnuts.  Fill  mold 
with  mixture,  having  mixture  overflow  mold,  adjust  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice, 
using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand  three  and  one-half  hours. 

BAKED   ICE    CREAM 

Whites  of  six  eggs.  Thin  sheet  sponge  cake. 

6  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  i  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

2  quarts  vanilla  Philadelphia  brick  ice 
cream. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  sugar  gradually  while  beating  constantly, 
then  add  vanilla.  Cover  a  board  with  letter  paper,  lay  on  sponge  cake,  turn  ice 
cream  on  cake,  having  cake  extend  one-fourth  inch  beyond  cream.  Cover  with 
meringue  and  spread  smoothly.  Place  on  grate  and  brown  meringue  quickly  in 
hot  oven;  slip  from  paper  to  serving  dish. 


W 


24 


PINEAPPLE    BOMB 
PART   I. 

I  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.      i  cup  sugar. 

1  can  sliced  pineapple.  1  tablespoonful  cold  water. 

1  cup  water.  Pink  coloring. 

Press  juice  from  pineapple  and  add  to  syrup  made  by  cooking  water  and  sugar 
five  minutes;  then  add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Color  pink, 
strain  and  freeze. 

PART   II. 
^  tablespoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.    §  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


i  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  cup  candied  fruit,  cherries  and  plums. 

Brandy. 

1  cup  heavy  cream. 


i  cup  medium  cream. 
Volks  of  two  eggs. 
3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  cold  water. 
Few  grains  salt. 

Scald  medium  cream  and  add  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  mixed  with  sugar 
and  salt.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  thickens,  add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold 
water  and  strain.  Set  bowl  containing  mixture  in  pan  containing  cold  water,  and 
when  beginning  to  thicken  fold  in  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  vanilla,  powdered 
sugar,  candied  fruit,  cut  in  pieces  and  soaked  several  hours  in  brandy  to  cover. 
Line  a  three-pint  brick  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  with  Part  I  and  fill  with 
Part  II,  to  overflow  mold.  Adjust  cover  pack  in  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice, 
using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand  two  hours. 

ANGEL  PARFAIT  WITH  CANDIED  FRUIT 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water. 
Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  dry.  ^  cup  candied  fruit  cut  fine. 

1^  cups  heavy  cream,  beaten  light.  |  cup  granulated  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  wine  or  thick  syrup.  ^  cup  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes  or  longer.  Boil  the  sugar  and 
half  cup  of  water  to  the  soft  ball  degree  (as  in  making  boiled  frosting),  pour  in  a 
fine  stream  onto  the  whites  of  eggs,  beating  constantly  meanwhile;  add  the  gela- 
tine, stir  over  cold  or  ice  water  until  the  mixture  is  cold  and  begins  to  set,  then 
fold  in  the  cream  and  the  fruit  and  flavoring.  The  fruit  will  be  softer  if  soaked  in  the 
wine  or  syrup  some  hours  or  over  night.  Turn  into  a  quart  mold,  lined  with  paper, 
cover  securely  and  let  stand  in  equal  measures  of  ice  and  salt  about  three  hours. 

NESSELRODE    PUDDING 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  prepared  French  chestnuts,  broken 

1  cup  cold  water.  in  pieces. 

2  cups  milk.  1  cup  pineapple  syrup. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs.  1  cup  candied  fruits,  cut  in  pieces  and 

1|  cups  sugar.  soaked  in  wine  to  cover. 

J  teaspoonful  salt.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

1  pint  cream.  1  tablespoonful  sherry  wine,  if  desired. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  custard  of  milk,  yolks  of 
eggs,  sugar  and  salt,  and  add  soaked  gelatine.  Cool  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 
Fill  wet  mold  to  overflowing  with  mixture,  adjust  cover,  pack  in  rock  salt  and  finely 
crushed  ice,  and  let  stand  three  hours. 


RICE    PARFAIT 
5  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  hot  boiled  rice.  i  teaspoonful  salt. 

1^  cups  milk.  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 

1  cup  cream.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  milk  ten  minutes  and  dissolve  in  hot  rice.  Add  sugar  and  salt, 
and  when  cool  fold  in  cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Add  nut  meats  and  flavoring.  Turn 
into  a  mold,  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt. 

MAPLE    RICE    PARFAIT 

Make  same  as  Rice  Parfait.  using  maple  sugar  in  place  of  white  sugar. 


w 


^ 


25 


w 


Salads 


and 


s^ 


oauories    .^^ 


IMPORTANT — Lemon  Juice  is  used  in  a  number  of  recipes  in  this  book.  For  those  who 
prefer  our  Acidulated  package,  the  Lemon  Flavor  contained  therein  may  be  used  in 
place  of  the  lemon  juice.  In  some  cases  the  housekeeper  will  have  to  use  her  own 
judgment  as  to  how  much  to  use  and  flavor  the  dish  according  to  taste. 


I    \ 


PERFECTION  SALAD 


1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
i  cup  cold  water. 

i  cup  mild  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice, 
2  cups  boiling  water. 


2  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  cabbage,  finely  shredded. 

2  cups  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
2  pimentoes,  cut  in  small  pieces. 


Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  boiling 
water,  sugar,  and  salt.  Strain,  and  when  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  add  remaining 
ingredients.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  to  bed 
of  lettuce  or  endive.  Garnish  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  or  cut  in  cubes,  an.l  serve 
in  cases  made  of  red  or  green  peppers,  or  turn  into  molds  lined  with  canned  pimentoes. 
A  delicious  accompaniment  to  cold  sliced  chicken  or  veal. 

TUNA   FISH   SALAD 


§  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
i  cup  cold  water. 

1  cup  tuna  fish. 

^  cup  chopped  celery. 

\  green  pepper,  finely  chopped. 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  olives. 


1  cup  boiled  salad  dressing. 
5  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  paprika. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vinegar. 
Few  grains  cayenne. 


Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  add  to  hot  boiled  salad  dressing. 
Cool,  and  add  tuna  fish,  separated  into  fiakes,  celery,  pepper  (from  which  seeds  have 
been  removed),  olives,  salt,  paprika,  vinegar,  and  cayenne.  Turn  into  six  individual 
molds,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  from  molds  to  nests  of  lettuce 
leaves,  and  garnish  with  slices  cut  from  pimolas,  diamond  shaped  pieces  cut  from 
green  peppers,  celery  tips,  and  watercress. 


'W 


26 


~w 


JEWEL    SALAD 

i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  f  cup  vinegar. 

^  cup  cucumber.  §  cup  pineapple  syrup. 

i  cup  canned  sliced  pineapple.  1  tablespoonful  tarragon  vinegar. 

i  cup  cold  water.  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

i  cup  boiling  water.     J  cup  sugar.  Few  grains  salt. 

Pare,  chop,  and  drain  cucumber;  there  should  be  one-half  cup.  Chop  and  drain 
pineapple;  there  should  be  one-half  cup.  Mix  cucumber  and  pineapple,  and  add 
gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  boiling  water;  then 
add  remaining  ingredients.  Turn  into  individual  molds,  first  dipped  in^cold  water, 
and  chill.  Remove  from  molds  to  nest  of  lettuce  leaves.  Accompany  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

CHEESE    SALAD 
§  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff. 

i  cup  cold  water.     2  cream  cheeses.  f  teaspoonful  salt, 

i  cup  American  cheese,  cut  in  very  small    |  teaspoonful  paprika, 
pieces. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Work 
cream  cheese  until  smooth,  add  American  cheese,  whipped  cream,  and  soaked  gela- 
tine. Season  with  salt  and  paprika,  turn  into  individual  molds,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  chill.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish  with  mayonnaise. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  sprig  parsley. 

2  cups  chicken  stock,  well  seasoned.  2  cucumbers. 

1  slice  onion.  Green  coloring. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one  cup  stock.  To  remaining  stock  add  onion,  parsley  and 
cucumbers,  pared  and  grated.  Cover  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Heat  gradually  to 
the  boiling  point,  add  gelatine  and  color  light  green.  Let  stand  until  nearly  cold, 
then  strain  into  individual  paper  cases  or  molds,  in  the  bottom  of  which  is  a  slice 
of  cucumber.  Garnish  tops  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  halves  of  blanched  Jor- 
dan almonds. 

SALMON    MOLD 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  Few  grains  cayenne. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water.  1^  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 
Yolks  of  two  eggs.  f  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt.  2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard.  1  can  salmon. 


salt,  mustard,  and  cayenne;  then  add  butter,  milk,  and  vinegar.  Cook  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens.  Add  soaked  gelatine  and  salmon, 
separated  into  flakes.  Turn  into  fish  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  chill,  and're- 
move  to  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 


LUNCHEON    SALAD 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  i  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  cold  water.  .  3  tart  apples. 

1§  cups  boiling  water.  1  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

I  cup  lemon  juice.  §  cup  pecan  nut  meats. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water.     Add 

lemon  juice  and  sugar.     When  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  add  apples,  sliced  in  small 

pieces,  chopped  celery  and  broken  nut  meats.    Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold 

water,  and  chill.    Accompany  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  This  mixture  may  be  served 

\1  y      in  cases  made  from  bright  red  apples. 

JELLIED   CHICKEN 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  a  fowl.  Put  in  a  stewpan  with  two'sllces  onion,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  until  meat  falls  from  bones.  When  half  cooked, 
add  one-half  tablespoonf  ul  salt.  Remove  chicken,  reduce  stock  to  two  cups,  strain, 
skim  off  fat,  and  add  one  tablespoonf  ul  gelatine,  soaked  in  four  tablespoonf  uls  cold 
water.  Decorate  bottom  of  a  mold  with  parsley  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Pack 
in  meat,  freed  from  skin  and  bone,  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  on 
stock,  and  place  mold  under  heavy  weight.  Keep  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Canned 
chicken  may  be  used  if  desired. 


MOUSSE 

1  teaspoonful  mixed  mustard. 


HAM 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 

1  cup  cold  water.  Few  grains  cayenne, 
i  cup  hot  water.  I  cup  heavy  cream. 

2  cups  chopped  cold  boiled  ham. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  hot  water,  and  add  to  chopped  or 
ground  ham;  when  cool  add  mustard,  cayenne,  and  cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn 
into  a  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Chill,  remove  from  mold  to  serving  dish, 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

CHICKEN   MOUSSE 

h  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  f  cup  cold  cooked  chicken. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs.  h  cup  Jordan  almonds  . 

\  teaspoonful  salt.  h  teaspoonful  salt, 

i  teaspoonful  paprika.  Few  grains  cayenne. 

1  cup  hot  chicken  stock.  1  cup  heavy  cream. 

1  tablespoonful  cold  water. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly,  add  salt,  paprika,  and  chicken  stock  slowly.  Cook 
over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens;  then  add  gelatine,  which 
has  soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  When  gelatine  has  dissolved,  strain  mixture, 
and  add  chicken  (using  white  meat),  and  blanched  almonds,  each  finely  chopped 
or  ground,  and  forced  through  a  sieve.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Set 
bowl  containing  mixture  in  larger  bowl  of  ice  water,  and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to 
thicken;  then  fold  in  cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  chill.  Remove  to  platter, .and  garnish  top  with  round  and  flower  shapes 
of  wine,  lemon  or  tomato  jelly,  and  sprig  of  parsley;  garnish  sides  with  round  and 
flower  shapes  of  jelly  and  diamond  shapes  of  truffle;  garnish  around  base  with 
cubes  of  jelly. 

JELLIED  VEGETABLE   RING 
§  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         1  teaspoonful  salt. 
\  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  strips. 

J  cup  boiling  water.  i  cup  shredded  cabbage. 

\  cup  sugar.  I  cup  canned  peas. 

\  cup  vinegar.  I  cup  small  cucumber  cubes. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water;  then 
add  sugar,  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  and  salt.  Strain,  cool,  and  when  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  add  vegetables.  Turn  into  a  ring  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 
Remove  to  serving  dish,  and  arrange  around  jelly  thin  slices  of  cold  cooked  meat. 
Fill  center  with  boiled  salad  dressing. 


'W 


28 


~w 


KNOX   SALAD   (Chicken  Cream) 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  cup  cooked  chicken,  cut  in  dice, 

i  cup  cold  chicken  stock.  1  cup  heavy  cream, 

f  cup  hot  chicken  stock,  highly  seasoned.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  stock,  dissolve  in  hot  stock,  and  strain.  When  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  beat,  using  an  egg  beater,  until  frothy;  then  add  cream,  beaten 
until  stiff,  and  chicken  dice.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  into  one-fourth 
pound  baking  powder  tins,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

Dressing 

l|  teaspoonfuls  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.    2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water. 
Yolks  of  two  eggs.  1  teaspoonf  u!  salt. 

Whites  of  two  eggs.  ,    y  teaspoonfuls  sugar. 

i  teaspoonf  ul  pepper.  Few  grains  cayenne. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard.  J  cup  lemon  juice. 

i  cup  hot  cream.  1^  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

^  cup  heavy  cream. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  by  standing  in  hot  water,  then 
strain.  Beat  .yolks  of  eggs,  and  add  salt,  sugar,  pepper,  cayenne,  mustard,  lemon 
juice,  and  cream.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly, 
then  add  butter  and  gelatine.  Add  mixture  gradually  to  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  when  cold,  fold  in  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Mold  and  chill.  Turn 
chicken  cream  from  molds,  cut  in  one  inch  slices,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves.  Put 
a  spoonful  of  dressing  on  each  slice,  and  garnish  with  one-half  English  walnut  meat. 
Cut  celery  in  small  pieces, — there  should  be  three  cupfuls.  Break  into  pieces  one 
cup  pecan  or  English  walnut  meats,  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mix  celery  and 
nut  meats,  sprinkle  with  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  and  add  to  one-half  the  dressing. 
Surround  each  slice  of  chicken  cream  with  celery  and  nut  mixture.  If  a  simpler 
disn  is  required,  the  celery  and  nuts  may  be  omitted. 

SHRIMP   SALAD 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  can  shrimps. 

i  cup  cold  water.  1  tablespoonful  capers. 

1^  cups  chicken  stock.  1  cup  cooked  peas. 

2  truffles. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  hot  chicken  stock,  and  let 
cool.  Cut  truffles  in  slices,  and  use  for  garnishing  a  fish  mold  (placed  in  ice  water), 
dipping  the  truffles  into  cool  stock,  and  holding  in  place  until  set.  Cut  shrimps  in 
pieces,  and  mix  with  truffle  trimmings,  chopped.  To  the  stock  add  shrimps,  chopped 
truffles  and  capers.  Fill  wet  mold  with  mixture,  and  chill.  Remove  from  mold  to 
bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish  with  peas,  dressed  with  French  dressing. 


APPLE  AND  GRAPE   FRUIT  SALAD 

{Illustraled  on  Page  19) 
Make  a  grape  fruit  jelly  according  to  directions  on  page  8,  omitting  wine 
and  pulp.  When  beginning  to  set  add  one  cup  apple  finely  cut.  Turn  into  a  shallow 
pan,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  from  pan  and  cut  in  cubes. 
Arrange  in  cups  made  from  bright  red  apples  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 
Garnish  with  English  walnut  meats  and  serve  with  French  dressing. 

FRUIT   SALAD   SUPREME 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice, 
i  cup  cold  water.  h  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  boiling  water.  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
i  cup  mild  vinegar.  3  cups  fresh  fruit,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  add  boiling  water,  vinegar,  lemon 
juice,  sugar,  and  salt.  Strain,  and  when  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  add  fruit,  using 
cherries,  oranges,  bananas,  or  cooked  pineapple,  alone  or  in  combination.  Turn 
into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  from  mold  to  nest  of 
crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and  accompany  with  mayonnaise  or  boiled  salad  dressing. 


w 


TOMATO    JELLY 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  Stalk  celery. 

§  cup  cold  water.  2  cloves. 

3i  cups  tomatoes.  '    Few  grains  cayenne. 

I  onion.  2  tablespoonfuls  tarragon  vinegar. 

^  bay  leaf.  Few  grains  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Mix  remaining  ingredients,  except 
vinegar.,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  vinegar  and  soaked 
gelatine,  and  when  gelatine  is  dissolved,  strain.  Turn  into  a  mold,  first  dipped  in 
cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  from  mold  to  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube;  or  the  jelly  may 
be  cut  in  any  desired  shapes  and  used  as  a  garnish  for  salads  or  cold  meats. 

TOMATO   JELLY   MOLDED   WITH   EGGS 

Put  a  border  mold  in  pan  of  ice  water.  Dip  chilled  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  in 
one-half  tablespoonful  of  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  soaked  in  one-half  tablespoonful 
cold  water  and  dissolved  over  hot  water.  Line  mold  with  slices,  holding  each  in 
place  until  it  becomes  set;  then  fill  mold  with  tomato  jelly  mixture  and  chill.  Re- 
move from  mold,  and  fill  center  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Accompany  with  may- 
onnaise or  boiled  salad  dressing. 

TOMATO   JELLY    SALAD   WITH  CHEESE 
PART   I 

Use  recipe  for  Tomato  Jelly,  strain  into  cups,  and  chill.  Run  a  knife  around 
inside  of  molds,  so  that  when  taken  out  shapes  may  have  a  rough  surface,  suggesting 
fresh  tomatoes.  Remove  from  molds,  cut  in  halves  crosswise  and  put  between 
them  the  cheese  mixture  as  made  in  Part  II.  Arrange  on  serving  dish  and  garnish 
with  rosettes  of  lettuce  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  If  preferred  fresh  tomatoes  may  be 
used  in  place  of  tomato  jelly. 

PART  II 
1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.      2  drops  tabasco. 


1  10c.  cream  cheese. 

1  tablespoonful  heavy  cream. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

I  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  Sauce. 


Few  grains  pepper. 

Few  grains  paprika. 

1  teaspoonful  cold  water. 

1  teaspoonful  boiling  water. 


Mash  cheese  and  add  cream,  salt,  Worcestershire  sauce,  tabasco,  pepper  and 
paprika;  then  add  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Mold,  chill  and  cut  in  slices. 


FROZEN   TOMATO   CREAM    SALAD 
I  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  i  teaspocnful  peppercorns. 

I  cup  cold  water.  1  slice  onion. 

1  can  tomatoes,  quart  capacity.  Sprig  parsley. 

2  cloves.  Few  grains  cayenne. 

1  allspice  berry.  1  tablespoonful  tarragon  vinegar. 

i  teaspoonf  ul  celery  seed.  h  pint  heavy  cream. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Cook  tomatoes  with  cloves,  allspice 
berry,  salt,  celery  seed,  peppercorns,  onion,  parsley,  and  cayenne,  ten  minutes. 
Add  soaked  gelatine,  cool  slightly,  and  add  vinegar.  Freeze  to  a  mush,  add  heavy 
cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  pack  in  half-pound  baking  powder  boxes,  having  mixture 
overflow  boxes,  adjust  covers,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Remove  from  boxes,  cut  in  slices  crosswise,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Accompany  with  salad  dressing. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.          3  slices  onion. 

1  cup  cold  water.  3  cloves. 

2  cups  mild  vinegar.  3  cups  asparagus  tips. 
Few  grains  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  onion  and  cloves  to  vinegar,  and 
bring  to  boiling  point.  Strain  and  add  soaked  gelatine.  When  mixture  begins  to 
stiffen,  add  asparagus  tips,  and  turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Chill 
and  remove  to  nests  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

FROZEN   FRUIT  SALAD 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  Few  grains  cayenne. 

2  tablespoonfuis  cold  water.  f  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter.  |  cup  vinegar. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs.  2  tablespoonfuis  canned  pineapple  juice. 

3  tablespoonfuis  sugar.  1  cup  prepared  fruit. 
1  teaspoonful  salt.  1  cup  heavy  cream. 

I  teaspoonful  paprika.  Lettuce. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Melt  butter,  and  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
well  beaten,  sugar,  salt,  paprika,  and  cayenne.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  grad- 
ually milk,  vinegar,  and  pineapple  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly 
until  mixture  thickens,  and  add  soaked  gelatine.  Remove  from  range,  and  beat 
two  minutes.  Cool,  stirring  occasionally,  and  when  beginning  to  set  add  prepared 
fruit,  using  Maraschino  cherries,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  strained,  orange  pulp,  canned 
sliced  pineapple,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  being  careful  that 
the  fruit  does  not  settle  to  the  bottom.  Pack  in  a  wet  brick  mold,  having  mixture 
overflow  mold,  adjust  cover,  and  pack  in  finely  crushed  ice  and  rock  salt,  using  two 
parts  ice  to  one  part  salt,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Remove  to  bed  of  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  and  cut  in  slices,  crosswise,  for  serving.  Accompany  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 


i 


ASPIC 
2  envelopes  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 
2  tablespoonfuls  each  carrot,  onion,  and 

celery,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
2  sprigs  each  parsley  and  thyme. 

1  stalk  savory. 

2  cloves.     1  bay  leaf. 

i  teaspoonful  peppercorns. 


JELLY 

^  cup  Madeira  wine. 

1  quart  brown  stock. 

1  cup  cold  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

Whites  of  three  eggs,  slightly  beaten. 

Salt. 

Cayenne. 


Put  carrot,  onion,  celery,  parsley,  thyme,  savory,  cloves,  bay  leaf,  peppercorns 
and  wine  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  let  boil  eight  minutes;  then 
strain.  To  brown  stock  add  strained  liquid,  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water  five  min- 
utes, lemon  juice,  whites  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 
Stir  constantly  until  boiling  point  is  reached,  and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  twenty 
minutes;  then  strain  and  chill.     One-quarter  cup  brandy  may  be  added  if  desired. 

CHICKEN   ASPIC   JELLY 

Make  same  as  Aspic  Jelly,  using  chicken  stock  in  place  of  brown  stock. 

ASPIC   JELLY    WITH    BEEF    EXTRACT 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  6  peppercorns. 

3 1  cups  cold  water.     1  onion.  1  stalk  celery. 

1  ounce  chopped  lean  raw  ham.  1  sprig  parsley. 

1  teaspoonful  beef  extract  or  2  bouillon       Bit  of  bay  leaf, 
cubes.  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water  five  minutes.  Bring  remaining  in- 
gredients, except  beef  extract  and  salt,  to  boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes; 
then  add  salt,  soaked  gelatine  and  beef  extract.  Strain  through  a  double  thickness 
of  cheese  cloth  and  chill. 

MOCK  ASPIC 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.         1  quart  cold  water. 

1  large  bunch  celery.  |  cup  cold  water. 
4  slices  carrot.  Salt. 

2  slices  onion.  Cayenne. 

2  sprigs  parsley.  Lemon  juice. 

1  sprig  thyme.  Whites  of  two  eggs. 

^  teaspoonful  celery  seed.  Green  coloring. 

Wash  and  cut  celery  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  saucepan  with  carrot,  onion, 
parsley,  thyme,  celery  seed,  and  one  quart  cold  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
and  let  simmer  one  and  one-half  hours.  Strain  and  cool;  there  should  be  two  cups 
liquid.  Add  gelatine  soaked  in  one-half  cup  cold  water,  and  season  to  taste  with 
salt,  cayenne  and  lemon  juice;  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  bring 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  color  light  green,  and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  to 
clear,  then  strain  and  chill. 

LOBSTER    IN   ASPIC 

Remove  meat  from  a  two-pound  boiled  lobster,  cut  in  pieces  of  uniform  size, 
and  dress  with  olive  oil,  vinegar  and  cayenne.  Mold  in  aspic  jelly  mixture,  and  chill. 
Remove  from  mold  to  nest  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Garnish  with  lobster  shells  and 
large  claws.  Accompany  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Sardines  may  also  be  molded 
similarly  in  Aspic  Jelly. 

MINT  JELLY  FOR  COLD  LAMB 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  §  teaspoonful  salt. 
I  cup  cold  water.  Few  grains  paprika. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  finely  chopped  mint  leaves. 

1  cup  vinegar.  Green  coloring. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  syrup  made  by  boiling 
sugar  and  vinegar  five  minutes.  Add  salt  and  paprika,  color  green  and  strain;  then 
add  mint  leaves.     Let  stand  five  minutes,  strain  into  wet  molds  and  chill. 

ORANGE    AND   ENDIVE   SALAD 

Force  Orange  Jelly  through  a  potato  ricer.  Arrange  thin  crosswise  slices  of 
orange,  from  which  seeds  have  been  removed,  on  a  bed  of  endive.  Surround  with 
jelly,  and  pour  French  dressing  over  all. 


w 


JELLIED   CELERY 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  §  tablespoonful  grated  horseradish  root. 

1  cup  cold  water.     1^  cups  boiling  water,    f  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 

^  cup  lemon  juice.  Few  grains  pepper.     Few  grains  cayenne. 

^  cup  sugar.  1  cup  finely  cut  celery. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water;  then 
add  lemon  juice,  sugar,  grated  horseradish  root,  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne.  Color 
light  green  and  strain.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  add  celery,  turn  into  mold 
first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  to  small  nests  of  lettuce  leaves,  and 
serve  with 

French  Russian  Dressing. — ^Mix  one  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  one-third  teaspoonf  ul  pep- 
per, few  grains  cayenne,  one-half  cup  olive  oil,  two  tablespoonf  uls  vinegar,  one- 
quarter  cup  tomato  catsup,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  chives,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

MUSHROOM  BROTH 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1  stalk  celery. 

1  cup  cold  water.     5  cups  chicken  stock.     J  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 
1  cup  mushrooms,  broken  in  pieces.  Few  grains  pepper. 

1  onion,  thinly  sliced.  3  cloves. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Place  remaining  ingredients  in  stew- 
pan  on  range,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  soaked  gelatine 
and  strain.    Serve  in  bouillon  cups,  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each. 

VEAL   LOAF 
1  envelope  Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine. 

1  cup  cold  water. 

2  cups  stock,  well  seasoned. 
1  onion,  peeled  and  sliced. 
1  stalk  celery. 

Soak  gelatine  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  the  lemon  flavoring  found  in  the 
Acidulated  Package  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  onion  and  celery  to  stock, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point,  let  boil  three  minutes,  and  pour  over  soaked  gelatine. 
When  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  add  meat,  pimentoes,  and  chopped  parsley.  Turn 
into  brick  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Remove  from  mold,  and  cut 
in  slices  for  serving. 

SWEETBREAD  SALAD 
\  tablespoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.      1§  tablespoonf  uls  vinegar, 
i  cup  sweetbread,  cut  in  slices.  2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

I  cup  cucumber  cubes.  Salt. 

I  cup  heavy  cream. 

Mix  sweetbread  and  cucumber  cubes  and  season  with  salt.  Beat  cream  until 
stiff  and  add  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  the  vinegar  and  dissolved  in  the 
boiling  water.  Set  in  pan  of  ice  water,  and  as  soon  as  mixture  begins  to  thicken 
add  sweetbread  and  cucumber.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and 
chill.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  top  with  a  sprig  of  parsley. 


2  cups  chopped  cold  cooked  veal,  ham, 

beef  or  chicken. 
\  cup  canned  pimentoes,  cut  in  thin  strips. 
I  tablespoonful  finely  chopped  parsley. 


MEAT   OR 
§  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 
+  cup  cold  water.     ^  teaspoonful  salt. 


FISH   RELISH 

\  cup  vinegar. 

\  cup  sugar. 

1|  cups  finely  shredded  cabbage. 


^  teaspoonful  celery  seed. 

5  teaspoonful  mustard  seed.  f  cup  thinly  sliced  onion. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  hot  vinegar;  then  add  remaining 
ingredients.    Turn  into  individual  molds,  lined  with  canned  pimentoes,  and  chill. 

MACEDOINE    SALAD 

Make  Tomato  Jelly  mixture.  Wash,  scrape  and  cut  celery  stalks  in  thin  slices 
crosswise;  there  should  be  one  cup.  Wipe,  pare,  peel  and  core  two  large  apples,  cut 
in  slices  and  in  small  pieces.  Chop  one  cup  walnut  meats,  mix  celery,  apple  and  nut 
meats,  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Put  one  tablespoonful  Tomato  Jelly 
mixture  in  each  individual  mold.  Then  add  vegetable  and  nut  mixture  and  cover 
with  Tomato  Jelly  mixture.     Chill,  turn  from  molds  and  garnish  with  watercress. 


CRAB  SALAD 


M 


i  tablespoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 

i  cup  cold  water. 

li  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

f  tablespoonful  mustard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

^  tablespoonful  salt. 

J  teaspoonful  celery  salt. 

Soften  gelatine  in  the  cold  water.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  slightly  beaten, 
condensed  milk  and  lemon  juice.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens.  Strain  and  add  gelatine  and  butter.  When  it  begins  to  thicken 
add  crab  meat  and  cream  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  buttered  molds  and  chill. 
Remove  to  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 


1  egg. 

§  cup  condensed  milk  (unsweetened). 
5  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1  cup  crab  meat. 

3  cup  heavy  cream. 


INDIAN  SALAD 

i  cocoanut,  grated.  3  pimentoes. 

2  apples,  cored  and  chopped.  1  tablespoonful  grated  onion. 

2  cups  celery,  chopped.  i  teaspoonful  salt. 

Allow  small  amount  of  lemon  jelly  to  harden  in  individual  molds,  fill  with 
the  above  salad  mixture,  and  pour  liquid  lemon  jelly  over.  When  hardened,  unmold 
and  sprinkle  with  some  of  the  grated  cocoanut,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.    Garnish  with  pieces  of  the  bright  red  pepper. 

CORNED   TONGUE    IN    ASPIC 

Remove  skin  from  a  boiled  corned  tongue,  skewer  into  shape,  and  cool;  then 
cover  with  brown  Chaudfroid  sauce.  When  sauce  has  stiffened,  cover  with  liquid 
aspic,  and  when  beginning  to  stiffen,  garnish  with  pistachio  nuts,  whites  of  hard 
boiled  eggs,  and  truffles  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Again  cover  with  liquid  aspic,  and  let 
stand  until  set.  Remove  to  platter,  and  garnish  with  roses  made  from  yolks  of 
hard  boiled  eggs  (moistened  with  melted  butter  and  seasoned  with  salt),  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  Sauterne  jelly,  broken  up  to  represent  moss. 
Insert  a  skewer  with  a  piece  of  truffle  between  two  pimolas.  Garnish  at  base 
with  Sauterne  jelly,  broken  up  to  represent  moss,  and  celery,  curled  to  represent 
feathers.  For  the  brown  Chaudfroid  sauce,  brown  one  tablespoonful  butter,  add 
one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned;  then  pour  on 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one-third  cup  brown  sauce,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  and  add  one-fourth  cup  liquid  aspic. 

This  Corned  Tongue  illustration  is  published  to  show  the  possibilities  of  garnishing 
any  meat  that  is  made  in  jellied  form. 


/    \ 


Corned  Tong 
in  Aspic 


'W 


31 


w 


Candies 


FRENCH  DAINTIES 


\.\  cups  boiling  water. 
1  cup  cold  water. 


2  envelopes  Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine. 
4  cups  granulated  sugar. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  the  boiling  water.  When 
dissolved  add  the  sugar  and  boil  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Divide  into  two  equal 
parts.  When  somewhat  cooled  add  to  one  part  one-half  teaspoonful  of  the  Lemon 
Flavor  found  in  separate  envelope,  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  water,  and  one 
tablespoonful  lemon  extract.  To  the  other  part  add  one  tablespoonful  brandy, 
if  desired,  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  of  cloves,  and  color  with  the  pink  color. 
Pour  into  shallow  tins  that  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water.  Let  stand  over  night; 
turn  out  and  cut  into  squares.  Roll  in  fine  granulated  or  powdered  sugar  and  let 
stand  to  crystallize.  Vary  by  using  different  flavors  and  colors,  and  adding  chopped 
nuts,  dates  or  figs. 


-^Sils=$S^' 


French 
Dainties 


'"'"'^'^'^^-^Ji^^^j^lt'^^'r^^A''^^^ 


«--.*•-,    s 


'W 


^ 


MARSHMALLOWS 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  Few  grains  salt. 

IJ  cups  water.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

2  cups  fine  granulated  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  the  water  five  minutes.  Put  remaining  water  and 
sugar  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  syrup  will  spin  a  thread 
when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Add  soaked  gelatine  and  let  stand  until  partially 
cooled;  then  add  salt  and  flavoring.  Beat  until  mixture  becomes  white  and  thick. 
Pour  into  granite  pans,  thickly  dusted  with  powdered  sugar,  having  mixture 
one  inch  in  depth.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Turn  on  a 
board,  cut  in  cubes  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  This  recipe  makes  about  one 
hundred  marshmallows.  Nuts,  chocolate,  fruit  juices  in  place  of  part  of  the  water. 
or  candied  fruits  chopped  may  be  added — or  the  plain  ones  rolled  in  grated  cocoa- 
nut  before  being  sugared.     Dates  stuffed  with  this  confection  are  delicious. 

FIG   BARS 

2  envelopes  Knox  Gelatine.  i  cup  chopped  blanched  almonds. 

2  cups  cold  water.  1  orange. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  lemon,  or  1  teaspoonful  of  the  lemon 
^  pound  figs.  flavoring    found    in  Acidulated    pack- 

3  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine.  age  dissolved  in  3  tablespoonfuls  cold 
i  cup  chopped  walnut  meats.  water. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one  cup  of  the  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Force  figs  through  a 
food  chopper,  add  juice  of  lemon,  juice  of  orange  and  grated  rind  of  orange,  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes.  Put  sugar  and  remaining  water  in 
saucepan  and  when  sugar  is  dissolved  add  soaked  gelatine.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  ten  minutes;  then  add  fig  mixture  and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Remove  from  range,  add  nut  meats  and  sherry  wine.  Pour  into  shallow 
pan,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Cut  in  pieces  two  and  one- 
half  inches  by  one-half  inch.     Roll  in  powdered  supar. 

GINGER    CRYSTALS 

1  envelope  Knox  Gelatine.  1  cup  boiling  vater. 

^  cup  cold  water.  §  cupcrystallizedginger.cutinsmall  pieces. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  ten  minutes.     Put  sugar  and  boiling  water  in  sauce- 

§an,  place  on  range,  and  when  sugar  is  dissolved  add  soak3d  gelatine.  Bring  to 
oiling  point  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  range  and  add  lemon  juice 
or  one-half  teaspoonful  lemon  flavoring  found  in  the  Acidulated  package,  dissolved  in 
one  tablespoonful  cold  water  and  crystallized  ginger.  Turn  into  pan  dipped  in  cold 
water,  having  mixture  three-fourths  inch  in  depth.  Let  stand  over  night,  cut  in  ob- 
long shapes,  roll  in  fine  granulated  sugar  and  let  stand  to  crystallize. 

COCOANUT   FUDGE 
§  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  2  cups  sugar.     1  cup  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  cold  water.  5  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  cup  shredded  cocoanut.                               1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Put  sugar  and  milk  in  saucepan,  bring 
to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  when  tried  in  cold  water  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed. 
Remove  from  range,  add  soaked  gelatine,  butter  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  creamy, 
add  cocoanut  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pan. 

CHOCOLATE   FUDGE 
1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  1    cup    chopped    nut    meats,    preferably 

1|  cups  milk.  English  walnuts  or  pecans. 

1^  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

2^  cups  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  two-thirds  cup  cold  milk  ten  minutes.  Bring  sugar  and  re- 
maining milk  to  boiling  point,  add  melted  chocolate  and  soaked  gelatine,  and  let 
boil  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  range,  stir  until  it  thickens,  add  nut  meats 
and  vanilla.  Turn  into  pan,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  let  stand  until  cool,  cut  in 
squares  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 


36 


PEANUT   DAINTIES 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  f  cup  boiling  water. 

i  cup  cold  water.  2  cups  chopped  roasted  peanuts. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar.  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Put  sugar  and  boiling  water  in  sauce- 
pan, and  when  sugar  is  dissolved  add  gelatine,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil 
fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  range  and  add  one  cup  peanuts  and  one  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice,  or  one-half  teaspoonful  of  the  lemon  flavoring  found  in  the  Acidulated 
package,  soaked  in  one  tablespoonful  cold  water.  Turn  into  pan,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  having  mixture  three-fourths  inch  in  depth.  Let  stand  over  night,  cut  in 
squares  and  roll  in  ground  peanuts. 

MINT   PASTE 

IJ  envelopes  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.       Green  coloring. 

2  cups  sugar.  4  tablespoonf  uls  cr€me  de  menthe. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice.  Few  grains  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  two-thirds  cup  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Put  sugar  and  two- 
thirds  cup  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  soaked  gelatine  and  let 
boil  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  color 
green.  Turn  into  a  pan  (first  rinsed  in  cold  water)  to  one  inch  in  thickness.  When 
set,  remove  to  board,  cut  in  cubes  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

CHRISTMAS  CANDY    SUPREME 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  ^  cup  Sultana  raisins. 

2  squares  chocolate.  i  cup  candied  cherries. 

3  cups  sugar.  i  cup  chopped   English  walnut  meats. 
1  cup  sour  cream.  i  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

Soak  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Melt  chocolate  in 
saucepan  placed  in  larger  saucepan  containing  boiling  water.  Add  sugar  and  sour 
cream  alternately,  while  stirring^onstantjy.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil 
until  mixture  will  form  a  soft  L.  't  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
gelatine,  and  when  it  has  dissolved  add  cinnamon,  raisins,  cherries,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  nut  meats.  Beat  «fntil  creamy  and  turn  into  buttered  tins,  having 
mixture  about  1^  inches  deep.  Cool,  remove  from  pan  and  cut  in  slices  for  serving 
The  mixture  may  be  put  in  individual  tins,  and  when  unmolding  insert  in  top  of  each 
a  sprig  of  holly.    Omit  fruit  in  this  recipe  and  you  have  Somerville  Fudge. 


CHOCOLATE    FUDGE 

1  cup  strong  boiled  coffee. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
1  teaspoonful  vinegar. 


COFFEE 
^  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 
2  squares  chocolate. 
2  cups  white  sugar. 
1  cup  brown  sugar. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Melt  chocolate  in 
saucepan  placed  in  larger  saucepan  containing  boiling  water.  Add  sugar  and  coffee 
alternately  while  stirring  constantly.  Place  saucepan  containing  mixture  in  direct 
contact  with  stove,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  butter  and  let  boil  until  mixture 
will  form  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Add  gelatine  and  beat  until  creamy. 
Add  vanilla  and  vinegar  and  turn  into  a  slightly  buttered  pan.  Cool  and  cut  in  squares. 


TURKISH   DELIGHT 

1^  envelopes  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.       Juice  of  one  orange. 

^  cup  cold  water. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar. 

^  cup  boiling  water. 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange. 


Juice  of  one  lemon. 

1  tablespoonful  rum. 

Red  coloring. 

^  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 


Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Put  sugar  and  boiling  water  in  sauce- 
pan, bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  soaked  gelatine  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Add  flavorings  and  coloring,  strain,  add  nut  meats  and  turn  into  a  bread  pan  (first 
dipped  in  cold  water)  to  one  inch  in  depth.  Let  stand  until  firm,  remove  to  board, 
cut  in  cubes  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.    The  rum  and  nut  meats  may  be  omitted. 


'W 


37 


J'or  ihe 
Jnvalja  and 

[T  = 


Individual 
Orange  Jelly 
(See  page  40) 


Knox    Sparkling    Gelatine   is  j 

plain,   straight  product,  and  the 

flavoring  and  coloring  are  packed  ir 

separate  envelopes  in  each  package 

and    not   mixed  with  the  gelatine.    Tc 

insure  the  making  of  attractive,  hcalthf  u 

and  appetizing  gelatine  dishes  for  the  sicl 

^  ,  ^.  J      ..  ^    and  convalescent,  one  should  use  Plain  Granulatec 

Lrelatme,  and  add  pure  flavors,  sweetening,  seasonable  fruits,  etc.     Gelatine 

dishes  are  taking  an  important  part  in  dietetics,  and  physicians  are  orderinc 

It  very  largely  in  the  diet  of  their  patients.   The  careful  practitioner,  however 

recommends  only  a  wholesome,  plain  gelatine  which  is  found 

m  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 


PORT   WINE  JELLY 

(Individual) 
f  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
i  tablespoonful  cold  water.     1  clove. 
1  inch  piece  stick  cinnamon. 
I  cup  port  wine. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 
§  tablespoonful  sugar. 
^^  Soak    gelatine    in    cold 

water       three       minutes. 
Cook  clove,      cinnamon, 
and  port  wine   ten  min- 
utes,   in    top    of     double 
boiler,  add  soaked  gelatine, 
and  as  soon  as  gelatine  has  dis- 
solved, add  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 
Strain    through    double    cheese    cloth, 
.  ,      .  .  mold  and  chill.      Remove  to  serving  plate, 

and  garnish  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN  BOUILLON 

(Individual) 
Make  a  well  seasoned  stock  from  a  young  fowl,  adding  celery  salt  or  chopped  parsley 

if  an  additional  flavor  is  desired. 

Soak  three-fourths  teaspoonful  Knox  Spark- 
ling Gelatine  in  one  tablespoonful  cold 
water  five   minutes,   and  dissolve 
in     one     tablespoonful     boil- 
ing    water.      Add    to 
^^      one-half    cup    hot 
-jt   ^       chicken     stock     and 
V^\    1        chill.       Beat  slight- 
<BJ      I  ly  with  a  fork  and 

serve  in  a  bouillon 
cup. 


NOTE —  If  it    is 

desired    to  serve 

this    bouillon    hot, 

add    gelatine    just 

the   same,  as  it 

thickens  it  and  gives 

more    body    to    the 

broth. 


o 


lie. 


jonValescenfs 


^ra 


?7 


GRAPE   FRUIT   JELLY 

{Individual) 
\  tablespoonful  Knox 

Sparkling  Gelatine. 
\  tablespoonful  cold  water 
L  tablespoonful  boiling  water, 

tablespoonful  sugar. 

cup  grapefruit  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  three  minutes, 
^dd  boiling  water  and  sugar,  place  over  hot  water,  and   let   stand 
ntil   gelatine  has  dissolved;  then  add  grape  fruit  juice,  strain  into 

1  wet  mold,  and  chill. 

GRAPE  JUICE  SPONGE 

{Individual) 
S  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine 

cup  grape  juice. 
\  egg  white. 

2  tablespoonfuls  heavy  cream. 
Add  gelatine  to  grape 

uice,  place  over  hot  --"(^^ 

ivater,  and  let  stand  .-/->-- 

jntil  gelatine  has  dis- 
solved.     Strain,    and 
A'hen  mixture  begins  to 
tiffen  add  white  of  egg, 
3eaten  until  stiff,  and  heavy 
Team,  beaten  until  stiff.    Turn 
nto  a  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
ind  chill.    Remove  from  mold,  and  garnish 
kvith  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  candied  violets. 


\.\  tablespoonfuls  heavy  cream. 

\  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine 

I  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 

Few  grains  salt. 

Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add 
gelatine,  soaked  in  lemon  juice 
three  minutes  and  dissolved 
in  boiling  water.     When 
mixture  begins  to  thick- 
en  add     fowl    (using 
preferably  the  white 
meat),  mixed    with 
parsley  and  salt. 
Turn  into  an  indi- 
vidual   mold,   first 
dipped  in    cold 
water,  and  chill. 
Remove    from    mold 
to  crisp    lettuce  leaves 
and  garnish  with  a  sprig 
Df  parsley. 


M 


C^c/d/tfonaf  Uses  for  J^ox  ^eCatiriG 

ORANGE  JELLY  IN  SECTIONS  OF  ORANGE  PEEL  {Illustrated  on  page  38) 

i  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     |  cup  orange  juice. 

I  tablespoonful  cold  water.  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 

1  tablespoonful  boiling  water.  1|  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Cut  a  circular  piece  of  peel  one  inch  in  diameter  from  the  stem  end  of  an  orange. 
Introduce  handle  of  a  silver  spoon  into  opening  thus  made,  and  remove  pulp  and 
juice.  Strain  juice  from  pulp,  and  use  in  making  jelly.  The  forefinger  of  the  right 
hand  may  be  of  assistance  in  loosenmg  pulp  lying  close  to  skin,  which  should  be 
discarded,  as  it  is  apt  to  make  a  cloudy  jelly.  Proceed  same  as  in  making  Lemon 
Jelly.  Fill  orange  with  mixture,  place  in  pan,  and  surround  with  ice  to  which  a 
small  quantity  of  water  has  been  added.  As  soon  as  jelly  is  firm,  cut  in  halves 
lengthwise,  and  cut  halves  in  thirds,  arrange  on  serving  dish  on  a  lace  paper  doily, 
and  garnish  with  glac^d  cherry. 

KNOX   MAYONNAISE   DRESSING 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,     Yolks  of  two  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard,  if  liked.  4  tablespoonfuls  Lemon  Juice. 

1  teaspoonful  salt.    Few  grains  cayenne.     2  cups  olive  oil. 

Mix  mustard,  salt,  sugar  and  cayenne.  Add  egg  yolks,  and  when  well  mixed 
one-half  teaspoonful  Lemon  Juice;  then  add  gelatine,  soaked  in  one-half  tablespoon- 
ful Lemon  Juice  five  minutes,  and  dissolved  over  boiling  water.  Cool,  and  add  oil 
gradually,  at  first  drop  by  drop,  and  stir  constantly.  As  mixture  thickens,  thin 
with  remaining  lemon  juice.  Add  oil  and  lemon  juice  alternately,  until  all  is  used, 
stirring  or  beating  constantly.  If  oil  is  added  too  rapidly,  dressing  will  have  a  cur- 
dled appearance.  Olive  oil  for  the  making  of  mayonnaise  should  be  thoroughly 
chilled.     Mayonnaise  should  be  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape. 

NOTE — If  preferred,  mild  vinegar  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  lemon  juice.  A  little 
garlic  or  onion  and  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  may  be  mixed  with  the  dressing  to  give 
an  added  flavor.  A  small  amount  of  Knox  Gelatine  added  to  a  cooked  dressing  improves 
it  and  makes  it  stand  up  firm  and  hard. 

BUTTER  MIXTURE 

NOTE — This  mixture  is  intended  for  immediate  use,  and  will  do  the  work  of  two 
pounds  of  ordinary  butter  for  table  use  and  for  baking  cakes,  muffins,  etc.,  but  is  not 
used  for  frying  purposes, 

1  pound  good  butter.  1  heaping  teaspoonful  Knox  Gelatine. 

2  pint  bottles  milk  or  one  quart.  2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Take  the  top  cream  of  two  pint  bottles  of  milk,  and  add  enough  of  the  milk 
to  make  one  pint. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  milk  ten  minutes;  place  in  a 
dish  of  hot  water  until  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dissolved. 

Cut  the  butter  in  small  pieces  and  place  same  in  a  dish  over  hot  water  until 
the  butter  begins  to  soften;  then  gradually  whip  the  milk  and  cream  and  dissolved 
gelatine  into  the  butter  with  a  Dover  egg  beater.  After  the  milk  is  thoroughly 
beaten  into  the  butter  add  the  salt  to  taste. 

If  the  milk  forms  keep  on  beating  until  all  is  mixed  in.  Place  on  ice  or  in  a 
cool  place  until  hard.    If  a  yellow  color  is  desired,  use  butter  coloring. 

CREAM    FILLING  FOR  CAKE 
i  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.       1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  or 
i  cup  sugar.  §  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 

i  teaspoonful  salt.  2  cups  scalded  milk. 

2  eggs.  J  cup  cold  milk. 

Mix  sugar  and  salt,  add  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  pour  gradually  on  scalded  milk. 
Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  coats  the  spoon.  Add 
gelatine  soaked  in  cold  milk  five  minutes,  and  flavoring. 

COFFEE    CREAM    FILLING 

Make  same  as  Cream  Filling,  scalding  the  milk  with  two  tablespoonfuls  ground 
coffee,  and  straining  before  adding  sugar,  salt  and  eggs. 


1  tablespoonful  tarragon  vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  chives,  cut  in  very  small 
pieces. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cold  water. 


RUSSIAN   SANDWICHES 

Cut  bread  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  and  shape  with  a  fancy  cutter.  Place  one 
or  two  small  crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  one-half  the  pieces,  spread  with  Russian  dressing, 
cover  with  remaining  pieces  of  bread,  and  garnish  top  of  each  with  one-half  pecan 
nut  meat.  Arrange  on  a  sandwich  plate,  covered  with  a  doily,  radiating  from  center. 
Garnish  at  center  with  a  few  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  to  represent  a  flower,  and  sprigs 
of  parsley. 

RUSSIAN   DRESSING 
J  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine. 

1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing. 
3  tablespoonfuls  chili  sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pimentoes 
cut  in  small  pieces. 

Mix  first  five  ingredients  and  fold  in  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes 
dissolved  by  placing  over  hot  water  and  chill.  This  dressing  may  also  be  used  as  a 
salad  to  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

FROSTING  FOR   CAKE 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.     2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cold  water.  Confectioners'  sugar. 
6  tablespoonfuls  hot  milk.                                1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  hot  milk;  then  add 
butter.  Stir  in  sugar  until  mixture  is  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread  (the  amount 
required  being  about  two  and  three-fourths  cups),  and  add  vanilla. 

WHIPPED    CREAM 

1  teaspoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,      f  cup  powdered  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  cold  water.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

1^  cups  heavy  cream.  Few  grains  salt. 

i  cup  milk. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  by  placing  over  boiling  water 
and  cool.  Mix  cream  and  milk  and  add  dissolved  gelatine.  Beat  until  stiff,  using 
an  egg  beater,  and  add  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt. 

GELATINE    FLOWERS 

f  tablespoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.    |  cup  confectioners'  sugar, 
i  cup  cold  water.  Vegetable  coloring. 

I  cup  cornstarch. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Set  bowl  containing  mixture  in 
saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  let  stand  until  gelatine  has  dissolved.  Cool  slightly 
and  add  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  cornstarch  mixed  with  sugar.  Color 
as  desired  and  shape  into  fancy  forms  resembling  any  flower  desired. 


PUDDING    SAUCE 
t  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine.  |  cup  sugar. 

1  pint  cream,  or  milk.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water.  li  tablespoonfuls  brandy,  or 
Yolks  of  three  eggs.                                           2  tablespoonfuls  sherry. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Make  a  custard  of  milk  or  cream, 
yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  and  add  dissolved  gelatine;  then  add  flavoring.  Let  stand 
in  cool  place  until  serving  time. 

TO   MAKE   CURRANT,   GRAPE  OR   OTHER  JELLY   FIRM 

If  a  fruit  jelly  does  not  "jell"  after  being  boiled  a  sufficient  length  of  time, 
add  to  each  pint  a  level  tablespoonful  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  that  has  been  soft- 
ened five  minutes  in  one-fourth  cup  cold  water.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point,  skim 
and  strain  into  the  glasses. 

IN   SOUPS   AND   GRAVIES 

Soups  and  gravies  are  much  better  if  gelatine  is  used  in  them, 
a  thin  soup  stock  it  will  make  a  rich,  nourishing  soup. 


By  using  it  in 


DESSERTS 


F'Orl 


DA  J  MTY 
P£QPL£ 


-2Wtf^fS^:;5y55=^^^o 


KNOX 


ll.'lHil4HiiM.M^'>l:I^B 

PACKEO     BV 

CHARLES  B.  KNOX  CO. 

lOMNSTOWK.  N.  T,  U  S  *  ,  MONTilEtl,  CAM* 

^  NET  WCICHT  ONE  OUNCE 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CQDt,3imi3 


RETURN     NATURAL  RESOURCES  LIBRARY 

TO^-^     40  Gianinni  Hall_ Tel.  No.  642-4493 


LOAN  PERIOD    1 
7  DAYS 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 

wmjM 

lA^     4  OCT 

