AGRKWTUM 
REfERfNa 


COOKBOOKS 


^ 


'^, 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

Ag.  Pef. 

IN  MEMORY  OF 

Kiss  Esther  Sinclair 


RETURN     NATURAL  RESOURCES  LIBRARY 

■fO—i^     40  Gianinni  Holl^  Tel.  No.  642-4493 


LOAN  PERIOD    1 
7  DAYS 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 

/                   -^^ 

Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/deltasbestcookboOOamerrich 


LJJelia's     cJjest 


^ook     (^Oook 


RECOMMENDED  BY 

THE  DELTA'S  BEST  COOKS 


COMPILED  BY 

THE  AMERICAN  LEGION  AUXILIARY 

OF 

BEPPO  ARNOLD  KNOWLES  POST  NO.  32 

GREENVILLE,    MISSISSIPPI 


Whether  he's  a  G.  I.  Joe.  Genera!  or 
just  a  plain  Citizen, 

WHEN  YOU  SERVE  HIM— 


m[  GOLD 


n  p  n  r  I — 
-  u   u  u  I  I  - 


YOU  SERVE— 


"World's  Finest  Coffees  in  a  blend  that  is 
Thermalo  Roasted-Flavortainer   packed" 

A  THRILL  in  every  cup! 
It's    DELICIOUS! 


Roasted  and  packed  by 

C/  ne      ^ouer      L^c 


Greenville,  Mississippi 


\l^&> 


TTie   Detta   a£u>ai^   (PnoduccA  tke   (BeAt. 
TlM  tklA   Qoa£   lA   Qalried, 

(Rememben   oun   Qneat  TTlca, 
HMia   u>note  tke   dBieAt   boak^. 
(Remcmben  oun   Qneat  JZadle^, 
T^e   Dctta'4.   (BeAt  CoakA. 


WASHINGTON  COUNTY 


fflOf 


[m 


GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


Cat.  for  Aq»  ItHi 


Ua£rL  of  ConUnU 


Beverages -Page  1 

Salads Page   5 

Vegetables Page  10 

Casserole  Dishes Page  14 

Breads Page  17 

Frozen  Food  Facts JPage  26 

Freezing  Poultry Page  27 

Meats Page  28 

Fowls Page  35 

Seafoods  &  Sauces Page  39 

Cakes Page  43 

Frostings Page  56 

Cookies Page  59 

Puddings Page  65 

Pastries Page  67 

Frozen  Desserts Page  76 

Candies Page  78 

Omelets ! Page  80 

Favorite  Recipes  Served  the  Legion J?age  81 

Canning Page  83 

General  Suggestions Page  86 

307 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

3  tsp. . 1  tbsp. 

2  tbsp.  %  Cup 

4  tbsp.  -- Vi  Cup 

12  tbsp %  Cup 

16  tbsp.  1  Cup 

2  Cups 1  Pt. 

2  Pts 1  Qt. 

4  Qts.  : • 1  Gal. 

8  Qts 1  Peck 

4  Pecks 1  Bu. 

16  oz 1 1  Lb. 

2  cups  of  butter  or  fat 1  Lb. 

10  medium  eggs 1  Lb. 

3  cups  corn  meal .. 1  Lb. 

1  cup  honey %  c.  sugar  @  1  c.  liquid 

1  cup  brown  sugar 1  c.  granulated  sugar 

1  oz.  (1  sq.)  unsweetened  chocolate 1/4  Cup  Coco 

2  Cups  solid  meat 1  Lb. 


—      DEFINITION'S      — 

BAKE:  Cook  in  oven 

BOIL:  Cook  in  boiling  water 

PAR  BOIL:  Partially  cook  in  boiling  water 

BROIL:  Cook  in  broiler  or  over  open  fire 

FRY:  Cook  in  fat  in  frying  pan 

FRENCH  FRY:  Cook  in  deep  hot  fat 

FRICASSEE:  Fry  in  small  amount  of  fat  and  serve  with  sauce 

ROAST:  Cook  by  baking  in  oven 

SIMMER:  Cook  below  boiling  point  on  top  of  stove 

STEAM:  Cook  over  hot  water  or  in  steam 

STEW:  Cook  in  small  amount  of  water  at  low  temperature 


To  one  cup  of: 

Use 

cups  of  water: 

Will  make  cups  of; 

Hominy  Grits 

4  to  5 

4 

Oatmeal 

4  to  5 

4 

Oats,  rolled 

2  to  2  V2 

2 

Rice 

4  to  5 

4 

y 


"£1x1015 


OF 


G\Ztiwillt 


"Dfie    ^c(ta.\    Bc^i    Cook     "Book 


<^^-'^'' 


A  GOOD  CUP  OF  COFFEE 

1.  Start  with  clean  pot.       (Wash  and  scald  thoroughly) 

2.  Be  sure  coffee  is  fresh. 

3.  Use  right  grind  of  coffee. 

4.  Measure  coffee   level:        (2   level  tablespoons  coffee  to  one  cup 
{Vz  pt.)  water.) 


ICED  COFFEE 

Use  2  level  tablespoons  of  coffee  to  ^/z  pt.  of  water. 
Make  two  pots  of  coffee.      Pour  the  first  into  your  refrigerator  tray 
and  freeze.       Use  these  cubes  to  chill  the  second  pot.      Serve  in  tall 
fiosted  glasses  with  sugar  and  whipped  cream . 


DEM1TAS8E 

After  dinner  coffee  should  be  stronger  than  other  coffee.       Usually 
double  strength.  Usually  served  black  with  or  without  sugar  or  cream. 


1 


SPICED  TEA 


2  tablespoons  whole  allspice  2  tablespoons  cloves 

5  sticks  cinnamon  4V2  cups  water 

Boil  together  slowly  for  30  minutes.  Strain;  add  1  cup  of 
sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil.  (This  makes  1  pt.  syrup,  spiced).  Store 
in  ice  box.  Add  to  fresh  brewed  tea  as  needed.  Serve  in  glass  cups 
with  orange  slices  and  cherries.  Mrs.  A.  E.  Lancaster 


Page  1 


^kz    ^eCta'^    ^cU    Cook    "Book 


TEA  LEMONADE 

Wk  cups  boiling  water  3  tsp.  tea 

%  cup  lemon  juice  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

Wz  cups  dry  ginger  ale  Ice 

Pour  boiling  water  over  tea.  Let  stand  5  minutes.  Strain 
and  cool.  Add  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Add  ginger  ale  and  ice  as  desired. 


\ 


PUNCH 


2  46  oz.  cans  orange  juice  1  46  oz.  can  grape  juice 

1  cup  lemon  juice  2  No.  2  cans  pineapple  juice 

1  cup  cherries  1  pint  strong  tea 

Mix  and  pour  into  punch  bowl  over  ice. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Lancaster 


\ 


EGG  NOG 


6  heaping  tablespoons  sugar  6  egg  yolks 

Cream  together  and  let  stand  1  hour,  oi  so.  Pour  ^h.  cup 
whiskey  over  yolks  while  stirring.  Add  1  pint  whipped  cream  to  this 
mixture.  Fold  in  six  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  to  which  has  been 
added  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  When  served  sprinkle  top  with  nut 
meg.      Serve  with  cake. 


Mrs.  D.  D.  Gorton 


1 


EGG  NOG 


1  quart  Eggnog  or  Vanilla  ice  cream 
1  pint  whipped  cream 
h'z  pint  whiskey 
Nut  meg 

Put  ice  cream  in  large  bowl,  stir  in  whiskey;  fold  in  whipped 
cream,  sprinkle  with  nut  meg.      Serve  at  once. 

Church  Stallings 


Page  2 


"Dfi^  'l^ECttt^  !B^^t  Cook  ^ook 


PLANTERS  PUNCH  (One  Serving) 


Juice  of  V2  Lemon 
1  teaspoon  sugar 
1  jigger  rum 


Sprig  of  mint 


LEMON  GINGER  PUNCH 

1  quart  lemon  ice 

2  quarts  ginger  ale 
Mix  ginger  ale  and  wine,  add  lemon  ice 


2  pineapple  sticks 

2  cherries 

Shovel  ice  to  fill  glass 


%  quart  white  wine 

When  nearly  melted  serve. 


HOT  BUTTERED  RUM 

1  cube  sugar  1  to  2  tablespoons  rum 

1  pat  butter  V2  oz.  Pinch  of  cloves  and  allspice 

Place  sugar  in  tall  glass.     Dissolve  in  a  little  hot  water.    Add 
spices  and  rum,  fill  glasses  with  hot  water  and  float  butter  on  top.. 


\ 


CLOVER  LEAF  COCKTAIL 


Use  large  bar  glass  1  part  gin 

V2  part  grenadine  or  2  strawberries  (sweeten  and  crush) 
Juice  of  V2  lime  White  of  one  egg 

Shake  and  stiain  into  cocktail  glasses. 


WHISKEY  SOUR 

Use  large  bar  glasses 

IV2  tablespoons  sugar  (dissolve  in  a  little  charged  water) 

Juice  of  V2  lemon  and'  %  orange 

1  wine  glass  whiskey 

Fill  glass  full  of  shovel  ice.     Shake  well  and  strain  into  glass. 
Serve  dressed  with  berries  in  season.  Mr.  Charles  Ariff 


Pages 


LIVE  ELECTRICALLY  AND 

ENJOY  THE  ^cy^enmcc! 


MISSISSIPPI 
POWER  &  LIGHT  CO. 

HELPING  BUILD  MISSISSIPPI 


Ufxs    ^i:[ta\    iS^^f    €00^    Soai 


s 


M'- 


SALAD  DRESSING  (From  Mexico) 

1^  Cups  Wesson  or  Olive  Oil 

2  Cans  Tomatoe  Soup 
1%  Cups  Cider  Vinegar 

3  Tafoiespoons  Horseradish  Mustard 
2  TablesJ>oons  Worcestershire  Sauce 

Juice  of  one  lemon 
Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  liquids,   which  have   been 
previously  mixed.     Whip  with  rotary  egg  beater.      Keep  closed  tightly 
in  fruit  jar  in  refrigerator.       Will  keep  indefinitely.       Specially  nice 
for  Avacado  salad.  Mrs.  Jessie  Lawson 


^^  Cup  Sugar 

1  Tablespoon  salt 

2  Tablespoons  Paprika 

1  Grated  Onion  (medium  size) 
1  Clove  Garlic 


APPLE  SALAD 

3  large  carrots  (grated)  1  apple  chopped  fine 

2  pieces  celery  V2  Cup  raisins 

Mix  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Orville  Cadenhead 


CELERY  SEED  DRESSING 

IV4  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  mustard 

2  teaspoons  salt  1  tablespoon  onion  juice 

2/3  cup  vinegar  2  cups  salad  oil 

Combine  sugar,  mustard,  salt,  onion  juice  and  V2  of  the  vine- 
gar. Beat  well.  Then  gradually  add  the  oil  alternately  with  the 
remaining  vinegar,  beat  until  a  stable  emulsion  has  been  formed.  Add 
the  celery  seed.      Especially  nice  over  grapefruit  or  Avacado  Salad. 

Carmen  Pearson 


Page  5 


"DIU    ^dia'^    !B^d:    CooH    ^oo^ 


POTATO  SALAD 

2  lbs.  potatoes  Juice  of  two  lemons 

1  clove  garlic  %  teaspoon  red  pepper 

2  teaspoons  salt  Va  cup  of  wesson  oil 

Boil  potatoes  until  tender.  Peel  and  cube  potatoes.  Then 
make  dressing  with  rest  of  ingredients,  mashing  garUc  with  salt  and 
pepper  until  real  fine,  add  lemon  juice  and  oil  slowly.  Pour  over 
potatoes.      Something  different.  C.  W.  Haik 


1  cup  nuts 
V^  pint  cream 


PARTY  SALAD 

1  pound  marshmallows 

8  slices  pineapple  or  2  cups  crushed  (drained) 

1  small  bottle  maraschino  cherries,  cut  in  halves. 

Cut  marshmallows  in  quarters,  mix  with  diced  pineapple, 
cherries,  well-whipped  cream,  and  last,  chopped  pecans.  Mix  and 
store  in  covered  bowl  in  refrigerator.  Will  keep  three  days.  This 
can  be  used  as  a  desert  with  Angel  cake.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Bell 


I 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 


1  can  fruit  cocktail  6  to  10  marshmallows  (chopped) 

3  to  4  tablespoons  mayonnaise  Vz  cup  cream  (whipped) 

Mix  all  ingredients  well  and  freeze.      Serves  8. 

Mrs.  Orville  Cadenhead 


t'it'^i'«^'y«/jy«^i'«^y^j«^i^i^i^''.^'i^ 


WELLS  FUNERAL  HOME 


AMBULANCE  SERVICE 
PICTURE  FRAMING 

326  MAIN  PHONE  4 

GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


giH^i'ys?i{^rys?i:fSYi.'^i»iivirira>rthrsviry^^^ 


Page  6 


Of^s    :t>zCta\    Be^i    Cood    BooH 


HOT  POTATO     SALAD 

Cook  6  medium  sized  potatoes  in  the  jackets,  peel  while  hot, 
slice  into  warm  serving  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  spring  onions,  or 
Spanish  onions  which  have  been  sliced  and  soaked  in  cold  water. 
Sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt,  celery  seed  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour 
over  this  the  following  dressing: 

Fry  4  strips  bacon,  or  use  4  tablespoons  drippings.  As  the 
bacon  is  done  remove  from  fat,  crumble  over  potatoe  mixture,  and. 
to  the  remaining  fat  in  the  pan  add — 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard 

1/4  cup  sugar,  brown  preferred 

%  cup  vinegar,  let  all  boil  up  stirring  constantly,  pour  over  salad  and 
serve  at  once.  With  stuffed  eggs,  sandwiches  and  coffee  a  hearty 
meal.      Nice  for  emergency  company.  Mrs.  N.  L.  Mayhall 


CRANBERRY  MOLD 

1  pkg.  lemon  gelatin  or  jello  ^2  cup  crushed  pineapple 

Juice  of  V2  lemon  1^/^  cups  boiling  water 

y2  cup  finely  cut  celery 
1  cup  thick  cranberry  sauce  (sweetened) 

Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  the  boiling  water.  Cool.  When  slight- 
ly thickened  add  lemon  juice,  celery,  pineapple  and  cranberry  sauce. 
Turn  in  molds  and  chill.  Serve  on  lettuce.  Garnish  with  mayon- 
naise mixed  with  a  little  minced  green  pepper. 

Mrs.  Vernon  Hammond,  Jr. 


i 


TOMATO  ASPIC 


To  one  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup  add  equal  amount  of 
water,  heat  to  nearly  boiling  point.  Have  ready  one  envelope  Knox 
gelatin,  dissolve  in  small  amount  of  cold  water.  Add  this  to  soup 
mixture  and  let  cool,  then  add  V2  cup  celery,  chopped  fine,  V4  cup  of 
sliced  stuffed  olives,  a  bit  of  scraped  onion,  and  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per to  taste.  Pour  in  molds  to  chill.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise. Mrs.  S.  F.  Witherspoon 


Page  7 


"DfU    ^Jta\    Be^t    Coo^    !Bool^ 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

2  pkgs.  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  1  can  fruit  cocktail 

1  cup  white  raisins  1  tablespoon  sugar 

pinch  of  salt 
Drain  fruit  cocktail.      Mash  cheese  and  whip  with  juice  from 
cocktail;  add  sugar,  salt.      When  thoroughly  mixed  add  fruit  and  put 
in  tray  to  freeze.      Serves  5.  Katherine  Reilly 


PINEAPPLE  CHEESE  FROZEN  SALAD 

V2  pound  American  cheese  1  can  No.  2  crushed  pineapple 

1  small  bottle  red  cherries  ^  cup  mayonnaise 

Mix  grated  cheese,  pineapple,  mayonnaise  and  cut  cherries; 
put  in  molds  and  freeze  for  24  hours;  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  may- 
onnaise or  top  with  whipped  cream  and  cherries. 

Caroline  Worthington 


MOLDED  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  cup  grated  yellow  cheese  \^  cup  cream,  whipped 
V4  cup  chopped  pimento                       ^/2  cup  vinegar 

Salt,  cayenne,  to  taste  Few  drops  tobasco 

2  level  tablespoons  knox  gelatine     ^'2  cup  warm  water 

Mix  cream,  cheese,  gelatine  dissolved  in  water,  etc.       Mix 
quickly,  pack  in  freezing  tray.   Slice,  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  N.  L.  Mayhall 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

4  egg  yolks  1  can  diced  pineapple 

4  tbsp.  sugar  1  pt.  whipped  cream 

4  tbsp.  Tarragon  Vinegar  1  box  marshmallows  (quartered). 

Beat  egg  yolks  until  light,  add  sugar  and  vine'^ar  and  cook 

in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cold  add  cream,  mix  with  other 

ingredients.    Pour  into  mold.  When  frozen,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with 
mayonnaise. 


Page  8 


"Dfu-^cCtut  B^u  (2oo^  !Boo^ 


FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

Blend  flour  with  enough  cold  milk,  to  make  a  smooth  paste, 
add  rest  of  the  ingredients,  stir  constantly  over  fire  until  it  boils  and 
thickens.  Add  juice  of  two  lemons.  When  cold  fold  in  V2  pint  whip- 
ped cream.     Good  on  any  fruit  salad. 


PINEAPPLE  SALAD 


1  can  sliced  pineapple  (drained) 
V2  can  condensed  milk 


Juice  of  1  lemon 
Grated  cheese 

Squeeze  juice  from  lemon  and  alternate  with  milk.  Whipping 
until  thick.  Pour  over  pineapple  shce  and  fill  center  with  grated 
cheese.  Mrs.  Wm.  Taggart 


«»:^'i^^«*?^:^tAS^tA«^iA«iit^t^:j^ 


—  Department  Store  — 
GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


Page  9 


ir^    ^t(la\    B«*    CooH    Scci 


c\}^ 


t^' 


lU^ 


EGG  PLANT  (Baked) 

2  cups  cooked,  peeled  and  mashed  egg  plant 

Salt  to  taste  2  tablespoons  butter  or  oleo 

Dash  of  pepper  %  cup  bread  crumb 

1  beaten  egg  1  tablespoon  minced  onion 

2  tablespoons  chopped  green  pepper 

Mix  ingredients  together  Mid  place  in  greased  casserole.  Place 
casserole  in  shallow  pan  of  water  and  bake  slowly  until  fairly  firm. 
Grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  if  desired,  (This  same 
recipe  can.  be  used  for  squash). 


I 


SPINACH  RING,  FROMAGE 


3  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk  Vz  pound  cheese,  grated 

IVz  cups  chopped,  cooked  spinach  IVz  cups  bread  crumbs 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour,  add  milk,  stirring  until  it  thickens. 
Add  cheese,  remove  from  heat  and  stir  until  cheese  is  melted.  Add 
well- drained  spinach,  bread  crumbs,  eggs  and  seasonings.  Pack  into 
a  well-oiled  mold  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  fima.  Cheese  may 
be  left  out  and  small  onion  chopped  and  added. 

(Squash,  broccoH  or  asparagus  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  spinach.) 


Page  10 


Ufie    ^etiu±    !Be±i    CooH    IBoalt 


CABBAGE  ROLLS 

1^/^cups  rice  (uncooked)  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

Small  can  tomato  paste  (or  canned  tomatoes)  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  cabbage  (separate  leaves,  remove  hard  center  stem  and  boil 
leaves  10  minutes) 
2^/2  cups  lamb  or  pork 

Combine  ingredients  except  cabbage  and  place  a  little  on  each 
leaf.  Roll  and  arrange  in  deep  pot.  Add  enough  water  to  barely 
cover  the  cabbage  rolls.  Season  with  1  teaspoon  salt,  one  clove  of 
garlic,  1  teaspoon  dried  mint  leaves,  juice  of  two  lemons.  Add  this 
during  the  last  fifteen  minutes  of  cooking  period.  Cooking  time  about 
one  hour  or  until  rice  is  done.  Mrs.  Dorothy  Ariff 


STUFFED  SQUASH 

Select  small  tender  squash  2  cups  veal  or  lamb 

Salt  and  pepper  V2  can  of  No.  2  tomatoes 

1  cup  rice  (uncooked)  Dash  of  allspice  and  cinnamon 

Cut  top  of  squash.  Scoop  out  as  much  of  the  pulp  as  possible. 
Fill  with  stuffing  and  arrange  in  a  pot.  Add  two  tablespoons  of 
tomato  paste,  teaspoon  salt,  ^A  teaspoon  black  pepper  and  water  to 
cover.     Cook  until  done  (about  one  hour.)  Mrs.  N.  E.  Ariff 


SMOTHERED  SNAPBEANS 

3  lbs.  snap  beans  1  onion 

1  lb.  lamb  2  cups  canned  tomatoes 

Cook  meat  until  almost  brown  add  onions  and  snap  beans. 
Cover  and  smother  until  snap  beans  are  tender,  add  tomatoes,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  and  water  to  cover.  Cook  until  meat  is  tender. 
Serve  with  steam  rice.  Mrs.  N.  E.  Ariff 


ACORN  SQUASH 

Select  small  size  acorn  squash  (allowing  V2  per  person).  Cut 
in  half  and  remove  seed,  place  in  shallow  baking  pan  and  keep  1  inch 
water  around  squash  at  all  times  while  baking.  In  each  half,  place 
1  patty  of  butter  and  1  tablespoons  of  water.  When  done  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  syrup  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon. 
Baste  with  liquid  that  forms  in  center  of  squash.      Baking  time  1  hour, 

Frances  Phillips 


Page  11 


C7^    2^e/ia'd    Sc^    Cook    "Book 


ACORN  SQUASH  WITH  PINEAPPLE 

Use  baked  acorn  squash  and  scoop  out  'the  pulp.  To  a  cup  of 
pulp  add  Vt.  cup  of  drained  crushed  pineapple  and  6  chopped  marsh- 
mallows,  place  in  hot  oven  until  marshmallows  melt  and  then  sprinkle 
with  sugar.    Baking  time:      15  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Lancaster 


1 


STUFFED  BELL  PEPPER 


1  cup  cooked  rice  1  can  Italian  gravy 

Vz  cup  grated  cheese  1  cup  potted  meat 

6  bell  peppers  (scalded  to  remove  skin) 

Mix  rice,  Italian  gravy  and  potted  meat — Stuff  peppers — Top 
with  cheese.     Cook  15  or  20  minutes  or  until  brown  on  top. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Gorton 


\ 


SCALLOPED  CORN 


3  cups  fresh  or  canned  com  3  eggs  beaten 

1  cup  milk  Vs  teaspoon  pepper 

IV^  teaspoons  salt  2  tablespoons  butter 

Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Combine  ingredients.  Pour  into  buttered  casserole.  Lay 
strips  of  pimento  or  green  pepper  across  top.  Sprinkle  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs.    Bake  uncovered  in  a  slow  oven. 


t 


POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

8  medium  sized  potatoes 
1/3  cup  grated  cheese 


2  cups  medium  white  sauce 
Va  cup  bread  cubes 


Pare  potatoes;  cook  in  Vz  cup  water  until  tender.  Cut  in 
cubes.  Place  layer  of  potatoes  in  buttered  baking  dish;  cover  with 
cheese  and  white  sauce.  Place  the  second  layer  of  potatoes;  cheese 
and  white  sauce,  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  one  hour 
at  350  degrees. 


Page  12 


"Dfie.    ^etu's    &±i    Cook    "Book 


BAKED  ASPARAGUS 

1  can  green  asparagus  Grated  cheese 

3  hard  boiled  eggs  Large  lump  butter 

1  tablespoonful  flour  1  cup  milk 

Salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to  taste 
Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  and  add 
milk  gradually  until  you  have  cream  sauce  of  right  consistency.  Place 
part  of  the  asparagus  in  baking  dish,  then  layer  of  eggs,  then  cheese. 
Repeat  until  all  ingredients  are  used.  Pour  over  cream  sauce,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  0.  Gorton 


V 


CORN  PUDDING 


\ 


2  cups  stewed  corn  2  cups  milk 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 
1  tablespoon  minced  onion                2  tablespoons  sugar 
V4  cup  minced  green  pepper             1  minced  pimento 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Beat  eggs  slightly.    Add  milk,  sugar  and  salt.      Combine  com 
with  other  ingredients  and  add  to  milk  mixture.      Mix  well.       Turn 
into  greased  casserole  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (325  degrees)  one 
hour.  Mrs.  Wiley  Mock 


Page  13 


nftz    1>di<x\    Bc^i    Coafi     "Boofi 


GYPSY  CASSEROLE 


\^h.  inch  slice  ham  4  potatoes 

6  carrots  4  small  onions 

4  turnips  %  cup  light  molasses 

1  cup  milk  y^.  teaspoon  paprika 

Place  ham  in  bottom  of  large  greased  casserole  dish.  Pare 
and  cut  vegetables  in  half;  arrange  over  ham.  Combine  molasses, 
milk  and  paprika;  pour  over  vegetables,  cover  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  (S50)  for  2  hours.      Uncover  last  half  hour. 


i 


TUNA  FISH  CASSEROLE  WITH  PRETZELS 


1  can  condensed  mushroom  soup 
IV4  cups  flaked  tuna  fish 

2  tablespoons  diced  onion 
V4  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  crushed  pretzels 


V2  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  diced  green  pepper 

V2.  cup  diced  celery 

dash  of  pepper 

Whole  pretzels 


Mix  together  all  ingredients  except  the  pretzels.  Place  a 
layer  of  the  fish  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  the  greased  casserole  dish. 
Sprinkle  a  layer  of  pretzels  on  top.  Alternate  layers  until  casserole 
is  filled,  ending  with  fish  mixture.  Top  with  whole  pretzels.  Bake 
in  a  350  degree  oven  for  35  or  40  minutes. 


FOR  A  TABLE  SETTING  THAT  WILL  BRING 
EVERY  HOSTESS  THRILLING  PRAISE 


U 


^Wallace     [/irnoi 

REGISTERED  JEfVELER  -  A.  G.  S. 

^rtenville,     ^r  lfli»Mt**ippi 
DIAMONDS-WATCHES-SILVER-CHINA-CRYSTAL-PICTURES-GIFTS 


Page  14 


Of^s    ^Jiu\    iBsd:    Coo^    "Book 


TUNA  FISH  CASSEROLE 

1  can  tuna  fish  1  can  condensed  mushroom  soup 

2  cups  crushed  potato  chips 

Put  tuna  fish,  mushroom  soup  and  crushed  potato  chips  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  in  order  named,  ending  with 
crushed  chips.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Wiley  Mock 


SPAGHETTI,  CHEESE  AND  EGG  CASSEROLE  I 

1  box  spaghetti  Vt,  lb.  yellow  cheese 

6  hard  boiled  eggs  1  cup  white  sauce 

Cook  spaghetti  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Place  a  layer  of 
spaghetti  in  casserole,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  and  seasoned  eggs,  then  a 
layer  of  thinly  sliced  cheese.  Repeat  until  ail  ingredients  have  been 
used,  having  cheese  as  the  last  layer.  Pour  the  white  sauce  over  this 
place  in  oven  and  bake  until  cheese  is  melted  thoroughly  and  it  is 
slightly  brown  on  top.      Serve  hot. 

Carmen  Pearson, 


EGGPLANT  IN  CASSEROLE 

1  medium  eggplant  2  eggs 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  or  W^  slices  of  white  bread  Salt  to  taste 

1  small  onion,  chopped  fine  %  cup  milk 

Peel  and  slice  eggplant,  place  in  salt  water  (not  to  strong)  for 
at  least  30  minutes  (longer  if  time  allows).  Place  saucer  on  top  of 
eggplant  so  it  will  be  under  water.  After  soaking  drain,  add  fresh 
water,  boil  until  tender,  drain  well  and  mash  or  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Beat  eggs  and  add  to  eggplant,  then  add  cracker  crumbs.  Thin  mix- 
ture with  milk,  be  sure  it  is  not  too  thick  before  baking.  Salt  to  taste 
and  add  the  onion  if  desired,  but  not  necessary.  Butter  a  deep  baking 
dish,  dot  with  butter,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  can  be  melted  and 
stirred  in  before  baking.  Bake  in  not  too  hot  oven  15  or  20  minutes, 
or  until  brown  and  firm. 

Mary  L.  Cook 


Page  15 


'DU^tlio.'f.    S^^    Cook     "Book 


DINNER  EN  CASSEROLE 

2/3  cup  English  peas  2  medium  white  potatoes,  sliced 

2  white  onions,  sliced  3  pre-cooked  carrots  or  parsnips,  sliced 

1  cup  coarsly  chopped  meat,  1  cup  broth  or  gravy  (steak) 

Place  in  buttered  casserole,  cover  with  stock  or  water,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  over  all,  place  a  thin  pastry  crust,  prick 
with  fork  and  brush  with  melted  butter.  Bake  in  medium  oven  (350 
degrees  fahrenheit  for  45  minutes  or  until  potatoes  are  done. 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 

In  greased  casserole  place  one  layer  each  of  the  following: 

Asparagus  tips 
Sliced  hard-boiled  eggs 
Grated  American  cheese 
Cracker  crumbs 

Moisten  with  milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  cheese 
is  melted  and  golden  brown.  Mrs.  Frank  Baldwin 


t 


1  I 

I 
f 

j  ( 

I  ADAPTED  SEED  j 


WALCOTT  &  STEELE 


Phone  1625 


I 
j 

I  GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI  ! 

I I 

<»>■-■  — ■»t—U —■■■■■■■■■■■■■»  .111—  I  M      —»  —  ■  —  .»■■■■■■■.■■■  MB— ■  —  >!■■♦> 


Page  16 


C7^^    [b^/fa'd    "Bs^i    Cook    T^ook 


Bx^oA^ 


MAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  shortening 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.       Add  shortening.       Mix 
with  tips  of  fingers.       Add  milk  gradually,  toss  on  floured  board  and 
roll  1  inch  thick.      Cut  in  biscuits.     Bake  12  minutes. 

Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


HOMEMADE  BISCUIT  MIXTURE 

8  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  salt 

V4  cup  baking  powder  11/2  cups  lard 

Sift  flour  and  measure.  Sift  again  with  baking  powder  and 
salt.  Cut  in  the  lard  until  the  mixture  has  a  fine  crumb.  Place  in  a 
Closed  container  and  keep  in  refrigerator.     Using  as  desired. 

Mrs.  Jolin  Carr — (Dorothy  Van  Kuren) 


SUGGESTED  USES  FOR  HOMEMADE  BISCUIT  MIX 

PIMENTO  BISCUIT  RINGS 

2  cups  homemade'  biscuit  mix  1  /3  cup  chopped  pimento 

4  tablespoons  chopped  parsley  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Milk 

Combine  biscuit  mix,  pimento  and  coarsely  chopped  parsley. 

Add  salt  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.       Roll  to  desired 

thickness — cut  with  doughnut  cutter.     Bake  on  a  cookie  sheet  in  a  hot 

oven.    This  mixture  makes  a  grand  topping  for  meat  or  vegetable  pies. 


Page  17 


Greenville,  Mississippi 


"yfis    ^^ttu\    Best    Cood     "Book 


Continued — Suggested  uses  for  homemade  biscuit  mix 


2.  Roll  pimento  biscuit  mix  to  the  size  and  shape  of  dinner 
plate.  Cut  in  6  wedges.  Then  sprinkle  ground  ham  generously  on 
•wedges.  Roll  from  wide  side  to  point.  Brush  with  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  425  degrees  for  20  minutes.     Nice  for  parties. 

Mrs.  John  Carr 


MY  FAVORITE  ROLLS 

2  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  soda 

Flour 


Vi  cup  shortening 

1  yeast  cake 

1^  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt 


Heat  milk,  sugar  and  shortening  until  shortening  is  melted 
LfCt  cool  to  luke  warm,  dissolve  1  yeast  cake  and  beat  in  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough,  then  beat  well,  let  rise  2  hours,  then  add  more 
flour  sifted  with  salt,  soda  and  baking  powder;  add  enough  flour  to 
Vje  able  to  kn^ad  well.  Then  put  in  refrigerator  for  at  least  several 
hours  or  until  next  day;  then  roll  out  and  make  into  rolls;  I  roll  out 
my  dough  fairly  thin  and  spread  with  melted  butter  and  fold  back  and 
then  cut  out  rolls,  grease  pan  and  top  of  rolls  and  let  rise  IV2  hours. 
Bake  in  oven  425  degrees.  Mrs.  R.  R.  Barwick 


\ 


1  teaspoon  salt 

1  whole  egg 

4  tablespoons  onion,  (grated  fine) 


HUSH  PUPPIES 

2  cups  corn  meal 

1  tablespoon  flour 

y2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients,  add  onion,  then  enough  buttermilk 
to  make  a  stiff  dough,  add  the  egg,  mix  well  then  drop  by  spoonsful! 
in  hot  deep  fat,  when  done  they  will  float,  lay  on  paper  and  serve  with 
fried  fish. 

In  Florida  they  fry  the  Hush  Puppies  in  the  grease  in  which 
they  have  just  fried  the  fish.  Mrs.  Jessie  E.  Lawson 


Page  19 


U^    ^dia\    !Bc^t    Coofi    "Book 


HUSH  PUPPIES  (To  be  served  with  fried  fish)— 

2  cups  meal  V\  cup  crisco 

1  teaspoon  salt,  hot  water  to  make  a  firm  mixture 

Make  in  small  pones,  roll  in  meal  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  where 
you  have  finished  frying  fish. 

Minced  or  chopped  onion  may  be  added  to  the  above  mixture 
if  desired,  before  cooking. 


\ 


SPOON  CORN  BREAD 

1  cup  boiling  water  Vz  cup  yellow  commeal 

Va  teaspoon  salt  Vt.  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

Slowly  add  the  commeal  to  the  boiling  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  salt  and 
butter.  Then  add  the  milk  and  beaten  egg  yolks.  Then  fold  in  the 
beaten  egg  whites  and  place  in  a  greased  shallow  baking  dish. 

Bake  at  375  degrees  for  50  minutes. 

Mrs.  Rife  Chancy,  Jr. 


\ 


NEVER  FAH^-Ice  Box  Rolls 


1  quart  sweet  milk  V^  cup  sugar 

%  cup  shortening  1  yeast  cake 

'  Place  together  in  good  size  boiler,  sweet  milk,  sugar  and 
shortening,  bring  to  scalding  point.  Cool  this  mixture  and  add  one 
fleishmans  yeast  cake  which  has  been  previously  dissolved  in  %  cup 
luke  warm  water.  Mix  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  and 
let  rise,  when  batter  has  thoroughly  risen  add  more  flour  in  which  has 
been  sifted  ^  teaspoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  heaping  tsa.spoon 
baking  powder.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Make  out 
rolls  and  let  rise  to  bake.  This  will  keep  in  refrigerator  a  week  or 
longer.  Mrs.  Dudley  Clower 


Page  20 


Uf.^    ^dia\    "Be^i    Cook    "Book 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 


2  cups  milk 

2  eggs 

1  yeast  cake 

%  cup  shortening 


1  cup  water  (lukewarm) 
3  teaspoons  salt 
%  cup  sugar 
10  to  12  cups  flour 
1  tablespoon  sugar 

Scald  milk,  add  water.  When  cooled  to  lukewarm,  add  yeast 
and  1  tablespoon  sugar,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  V^  cup  water,  add 
this  to  cooled  milk  and  water,  then  add  butter  and  sugar  which  has 
been  creamed,  slightly  beaten  eggs,  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a 
thin  batter.  Let  rise  in  warm  place  in  a  covered  bowl  about  2  hours. 
Then  add  balance  of  flour  and  salt.  Knead  into  a  smooth  dough,  let 
rise  until  doubled  in  bulk,  then  make  into  rolls  and  let  rise  for  1  hour. 
Bake  at  400  degrees  F.    This  will  keep  in  ice  box  for  a  day  or  two. 


ROSCLLA'S 

|_IOME  APPLIANCES 


PHONE  1488 


708  WASHINGTON 


'\a\aa 


Sales  and  Service 


Page  21 


I 

"Df^z  ^dio.\  SiTif  Cook  !Boofi 


ICE  BOX  ROLLS 

1  yeast  cake  6  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  lukewarm  water  3  tablespoons  shortening  (melted) 
1  egg  (beaten)  6V^  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  salt 
Soften  yeast  cake  in  water.  Let  stand  5  minutes.  Add  salt, 
egg,  sugar  and  shortening.  Add  flour  little  at  a  time,  beating  well 
each  time.  Knead  dough  until  smooth.  Cover  with  warm  damp  cloth 
and  let  stand  2  hours.  Knead  down  or  make  into  rolls  and  put  into  ice 
box.    Let  rise  2  hours  before  baking.     Bake  in  hot  oven  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  Ben  Rogers 


WAFFLES  (From  a  friend  in  Sweden) 

%  cup  flour,  sifted  with  Va  teaspoon  salt. 

5  eggS,  adding  one  egg  at  the  time  to  the  flour  until  a  smooth  batter 
is  achieved.  Beat  well,  then  add  one  cup  of  heavy  cream  and  one 
half  cup  full  of  light  cream,  beat  all  very  thoroughjy  wilh  a  rotary  egg 
beater.  Bake  in  a  hot  waffle  iron  until  golden  brown.  Waffles  should 
not  be  hard  when  done.  Mrs.  Jessie  Lawson 


\ 


BREAD  CRUMB  GRIDDLECAKES 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  %  cup  water 

%  cup  milk  1  cup  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  4  tablespoons  shortening  (melted) 

1  teaspoon  sugar 
Soak  breadcrumbs  in  water  10  minutes,  add  milk.     Sift  to- 
gether flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  add  to  bread  mixture:  add  beat- 
en  e«^gs   and  shortening;    mix   well.     Bake   on   sUghtly   greased   hot 
griddle. 


\ 


SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS 


1  cup  mashed  sweet  p>otatoe  2  3  cup  milk 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  IV4  cups  flour 

3^  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  and  cut  in  fat,  add  mi^k  then  add 
potatoes.     Smooth  into  dough.    Roll,  cut  into  small   biscu'ts.    Bake 
in  hot  oven  10  to  15  minutes.  Mrs.  Church  Stallings 


Page  22 


a^  L^e^fa'd  !BK.i  Cook  !Book 


WAFFLES 

1  large  heaping  kitchen  spoon  of  lard  ^ 

1  large  heaping  kitchen  spoon  of  sugar 

1  whole  egg 

2  rounding  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Salt  to  taste 

2  level  cups  of  sifted  flour  (not  packed  in  cup  but  put  in  lightly) 

Cream  lard  and  sugar  well,  then  break  the  whole  egg  into  the 
creamed  lard  and  continue  to  cream.  Add  the  flour  and  milk  by 
degrees.  Using  enough  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  The  last  thing 
fold  in  the  baking  powder.  This  recipe  may  be  used  for  muffins  but 
don't  make  the  batter  as  thin  as  for  waffles. 

Bettie  Archer 


t 


CHOCOLATE  WAFFLES 

V2  cup  butter 

2  eggs 

IV2  oz.  chocolate  (melted) 

IV2  cup  flour 

V2  teaspoon  vanila 


V4  teaspoon  salt 


1/.- 


'2  cup  sugar 
IV^  cups  milk 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  eggs  to  melted  choco- 
late. Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  milk.  Bake  on 
hot  waffle  iron. 


I 


FLUFFY  WAFFLES 

2  well  beaten  egg  yolks 

1^2  cups  milk  (sweet) 

2  cups  flour 

6  tablespoons  melted  shortening 


2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites 
V4  teaspoons  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Mix  egg  yolks  and  milk;  add  flour,  sifted  with  salt  and  baking 
powder,  then  slightly  cooled  shortening.  Beat  smooth,  fold  in  egg 
whites.    Bake  on  ungreased  waffle  iron.      Makes  from  4  to  6  waffles. 

Mrs.  Paul  Bauer 


Page  23 


C7fU    ^Elta\   BeU   e^yoU    IBooH 


''CRACKLING  BREAIT 

1  cup  cracklings  diced  or  ground      1%  cups  commeal 
%  oup  flour  %  teaspoon  soda 

salt  to  taste  1  cup  sour  milk 

Cracklings  are  pieces  of  meat  remaining  after  the  lard  has 
been  rendered  from  the  pork. 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  milk  and 
stir  in  the  cracklings.  Form  into  cakes  and  place  in  greased  baking 
pan.      Bake  in  hot  oven  for  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Church  Stallings 


\ 


BANANA  BREAD 


Vz  cup  shortening  3  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  3  bananas 

1  cup  nuts  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  sifted  flour 

Mix  like  cake  and  add  mashed  bananas  last.      Cook  in  loaf 
pan  in  a  slow  oven  about  1  hour.  Mrs.  D.  D.  Gorton 


t 


SOUR  MILK  CORN  MEAL  WAFFLES 

2  Clips  com  meal  %  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  About  IVz  cups  buttermilk 

2  eggs  4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Quality  of  meal  will  determine  the  amount  of  milk.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  together.  Add  milk  and  melted  fat.  Beat  until  light  and 
add  to  meal  mixture.  Bake  in  waffle  iron,  preheated  to  same  temper-^ 
ature  as  for  plain  waffles. 


Page  24 


Cr^    ^ctiaU   B^±i   Coo^    BooH 


CURRENT  ROLLS 

To  1  pound  of  roll  dough  kneed  in  %  cup  currents  washed 
and  dried.  Roll  dough  thin  and  cut  in  strips  1  in  wide  and  6  inches 
long,  tie  in  a  knot.  Place  in  greased  pan  to  rise,  as  rolls  rise  brush 
tops  with  cream  to  give  them  a  gloss. 


I 


Use  your  favorite  ice  box  roll  recipe  to  make  these  dainty  rolls. 

PINEAPPLE  RINGS 

Roll  dough  thin,  %  inch  thick.  Brush  with  melted  butter 
*md  well  drained  pineapple  sprinkled  with  sugar,  and  chopped  pecans. 
Roll  as  jelly  roll — cut  in  1  in<^  sUces,  set  to  rise  in  greased  pan  and 
bake.      Brush  top  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 


1 


WILEY  MOTOR  CO. 

205  -  207  MAIN  STREET 
GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 

-    DEALERS    - 

Willys  Jeeps  -  Station  Wagons 

Trucks   and  Passenger  Cars 

and  Reo  Trucks 


Page  25 


C7i^    [2^r/iaA    Be^e    CooH    IBaal^ 


—     FROZEN  FOOD  FACTS      — 


The  newest  method  of  food  preservation  is  growing  fast  in 
popularity — that  is  freezing.  With  freezer  locker  plants  in  most  every 
town  of  any  size  and  the  production  of  Home  Freezing  Units,  most  of 
you  will  avail  yourselves  of  the  convenience  of  preserving  foods  by 
freezing. 

The  methods  of  preparing  foods  for  freezing  are  the  same 
whether  you  rent  a  locker  at  the  local  freezer  locker  plant  or  own  a 
home  freezer. 


MEATS 


Freezing  does  make  meat  more  tender.  However,  the  process 
cannot  be  expected  to  change  tough,  poor-quahty  meat  into  tender, 
choice  cuts.  Try  to  make  sure  your  meat  comes  from  weli-finished 
high  quality  animals. 

After  slaughtering  and  bleeding,  the  carcass  must  be  inspected 
cai-efuUy.  Soiled  f)ortions  should  be  scrubbed  with  warm  water, 
bruised  portions  cut  out  and  discarded^ as  it  causes  deterioration  which 
spreads  and  contaminates  the  sound  meat.  Each  warm  carcass  must 
be  hung  so  that  it  does  not  touch  any  thing.  Cool  at  about  32-40 
degrees  F. 

Freeze  only  the  cuts  of  meat  that  wiU  prove  most  satisfactory 
for  use  in  your  family.  Storage  space  is  too  valuable  to  wasu>  by 
freezing  meats  not  wanted  by  the  family.  Cut  into  table  size  pieces. 
Boning  saves  space. 

After  cutting,  it  is  important  to  package  the  meat  as  quickly 
and  carefully  as  possible.  Then  freeze  it  immediately.  Do  not  over- 
load the  quick-freeze  compailment.  Wrap  cuts  in  moisture  and  vapor 
proof  material,  heat  seal,  then  wrap  in  protective  covering  of  stock- 
inette, cheesecloth  or  locker  paper.  Be  sure  to  allow  time  for  meat  to 
freeze  sohd  before  transferring  it  to  the  storage  compartment. 

Meat  need  not  be  completely  thawed  before  cooking,  but  best 
results  are  secured  when  it  is  at  least  2/3  defrosted.  Thaw  meat 
slowly  in  refrigerator.    Water  must  never  be  added. 


Page  26 


^L.    ^dia\   !Bs.ti:   CooSt    !Book 


—      FREEZING  POULTRY      — 


There  are  a  few  tricks  to  freezing  chickens  that  will  make  the 
job  easier  and  give  you  better  meat.  Here  are  some  suggestions  from 
th  General  Electric  Consumers'  Institute. 

Bleed  the  birds  well.  If  you  use  the  scald- pick  method,  sciald 
no  longer  than  3-6  seconds  in  water  175  F. — 190  F.  Refrigerate  over 
night. 

Speed  up  the  dressing  and  packaging.  For  home  freezing, 

use  small  packages,  work  with  small  quantities.  Use  moisture-proof, 

vapor-proof  paper,  also  heavily  waxed  cartons.  Freeze  and  store  at 
zero  F. 


Below  are  the  steps: 

1.  Wash  well-bled,  chilled,  dressed  bird  in  cold  water.      Do 
not  use  salt.      Drain.      Wipe  cavity  thoroughly  with  a  damp  cloth. 

2.  Clean,  wash  liver  and  gizzard.       Wrap  carefully  in  mois- 
ture-proof, vapor-proof  paper  and  insert  into  cavity  of  bird. 

3.  Now  wrap  bird  in  the  same  special  paper.      Press  to  skin  to 
push  out  air,  to  avoid  drying  out  of  most  tissues. 

4.  Pull  a  stockinette  tightly  over  paper,  to  protect  it  from 
tearing,  and  keep  it  pressed  closely  to  moist  meat  surface. 

5.  Cut  stockinetter  (bought  from  freezer  supply  house),  leav- 
ing 2-inch  length  at  each  end;  tie  ends  securely  in  knots. 

6.  Cut-up  bird:     Wrapped  giblets  go  with  pieces  in  waxed 
carton,  lined  with  moisture-proof,  vapor-proof  paper. 

7.  Fold  inner  layers  of  paper,  clo^e  carton.      Heat-seal  over- 
wrapping  paper  with  warm  iron  for  needed  protection. 

8.  Label  the  product  and  the  date  of  freezing.      Frozen  im- 
modijiately  and  stored  at  0  F.,  birds  will  keep  6  months. 


Page  27 


Ufis    ^c[ta\    !B^^t    Cood    ^ooH 


y\/{Eal± 


Salt  and  pepper 

1  large  onion,  sliced 

8  tablespoons  boiled  rice 


STUFFED  PORK  CHOPS 

4  Lean  Pork  Chops 

1  green  pepper,  cut  in  rings 

2  cups  tomato  juice 
1  tablespoon  flour 

Brown  chops  in  hot  fat;  Season;  place  in  baking  pan,  top  each 
chop  with  a  green  pepper  ring,  a  slice  of  onion,  and  2  tablespoons  rice. 
Brown  flour  in  fat  used  for  chops  and  add  tomato  juice.  If  too  thick 
add  a  little  water.  Pour  over  chops  and  bake  slowly  about  1  hour. 
Serves  4.  If  desired,  Mushroom  soup  may  be  used  in  place  of  tomato 
juice. 

Mrs.  Fred  Krutz 


t 


TAMALE  PIE 

1  lb.  Ground  Meat  1  can  Tomatoes 

1  can  Tamales  3  large  Onions 

4  parts  Garlic  1  tablespoon  Butter 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Chili  Powder  to  taste. 

Take  two  skillets;  in  one  put  meat,  and  cook  until  it  crumbles. 
In  other,  put  Butter  and  chopped  Onions,  and  fry  until  onions  are 
brown.  Take  tomatoes  and  mash  them.  Mix  all  ingredients  to- 
gether and  let  simmer  2  hours. 


I 


TAMALE  PIE  CRUST 

Mix  2  cups  meal  and  2  teaspoons  salt  with  6  cups  boiling 
water,  and  cook  over  low  heat  about  15  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 
Line  sides  and  bottom  of  greased  baking  dish  with  1  inch  layer  of 
mush.  Pour  in  meat  filling.  Add  another  layer  of  mush,  and  then 
another  of  meat  and  cover  all  with  mush.  Bake  in  moderate  slow 
oven  IVi.  hours.      Serves  6  to  8. 

Mrs.  Innocent  Loyacano. 


Page  28 


rj^    ^dta.\    !Bs^£    Cook    ^ook 


MEAT  LOAF 


3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt 

"^h.  teaspoon  pepper 

y4  teaspoon  paprika 


1  lb.  ground  round  steak 

y4  lb.  salt  pork  ground  with  steak 

1  cup  hot  sweet  milk 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

1  small  onion 

Mix  well,  adding  beaten  egg  whites  last.  Put  a  row  of  stuffed 
olives  through  the  center  and  a  strip  of  bacon  on  the  top  of  the  loaf. 
Bake  about  1  hour  and  15  minutes  in  a  loaf  pan. 

Miss  Carmen  Pearson 


HAM  LOAF 

IV2  lbs.  raw  smoked  ham 

IV2  lbs.  raw  fresh  ham,  grind  both  together,  add:- 

12  crackers  crumbled  fine  2  whole  eggs  beaten 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  pepper  to  taste,  no  salt 

Form  into  loaf  mixing  with  1  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup, 
reserving  half  of  soup  to  pour  over  top.      Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven 

2  houis.       Serve  hot  or  cold.       Good  with  baked  beans,  slaw  and 
brown  bread.  Mrs.  N.  L.  Mayhall 


1 


HAM  BALLS 

%  ib.  ground  ham  shank  V4  lb.  ground  lean  pork 

2/3  cup  crushed  cornflakes  1  tablespoon  brown  sugar 

1/3  cup  milk  1  egg 

Grind  meat,  mix  with  cereal,  sugar,  cloves,  milk  and  egg. 
Shape  into  balls.  Place  in  flat  open  pan.  Bake  in  350"  F.  oven  20 
minutes.       Serve  with  broiled  peach  halves. 


•«!>8^'t^8^t^8^tV8^tXgJJt^8^L^8^tX8^tVfjJl-V8^ 


Monis  Lancaster 
Phone  1617-J 


A.  E.  Lancaster 
Phone  1326-J 


LANCASTER  BROTHERS 

General  Contractors 

Estimates  Furnished 


^rysvir/8vir^r^iys?irfs?]fys?itysvlfys^ 


Page  29 


"D^  ^^(iu\  BcU  Coofi  "Book 


STUFFED  SPARERIBS 

V^k  lbs.  spareribs  2  tablespoons  butter 

Vi  cvp  chopped  onion  ^  cup  chopped  celery 

2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  Vs  teaspoon  pepp)er 

Brown  onions  in  fat.  Add  celery,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper 
and  Vi  cup  water.  Place  dressing  in  baking  pan  and  cover  v/ith 
seasoned  spareribs.  Bake  uncovered  in  350°  F.  oven  for  \^k  hours. 
Serve  with  broiled  tomatoes.  Mrs.  Church  Stallings 


TO  CORN  BEEF 

5  lb.  solid  piece  lean  beef 

Rub  in  1  tablespoon  salt  peter  (purchase  at  drug  store) 
\h.  cup  saH  2  tablespoons  garlic 

2  cloves  garlic  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  black  pepper 

Put  in  crock  and  weight  down  cover.  Set  in  refrigerator  5 
days,  turning  it  over  every  day.  Then  cover  with  water  and  boil 
slowly  until  tender.  Serve  hot  with  boiled  potatoes,  creamed  cab- 
bage, and  horseradish  sauce. 

Horseradish  Sauce 

To  one  cup  good  cream  sauce  add  1  tablespoon  Worcester- 
shire, 1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard,  1  tablespoon  prepared  horseradish, 
black  pepper  to  taste.  If  you  have  a  pepper  grinder  and  can  grind 
whole  pepper  so  much  the  better.  Freshly  ground  horseradish  is 
best  too  if  you  can  get  it  in  the  market.  Mrs.  N.  L.  Mayhall 


\ 


CRANBERRY  HAM  SUCE 


3  cups  raw  cranberries  2  slices  ham  (%  to  3  inch  thick) 

iy2  cups  strained  honey  2  tablespoons  whole  cloves 

Mix  cranberries  and  honey,  gash  edges  of  fat  on  ham.  Place 
one  slice  ham  on  baking  dish.  Spread  the  center  with  a  mixture  of 
cranberries  and  honey.  Top  with  second  slice.  Cover  with  remain- 
ing cranberries  and  honey  mixture.  Garnish  with  whole  cloves. 
Bake  until  done  in  a  moderate  oven — basting  often  with  liquid  in  dish. 


Page  30 


nr/U    ^dta.\    iBe^i    Cool^    !Boo^ 


BRUNSWICK  STEW  (Serves  15  generously) 


8  large  potatoes 
1  can  corn 
1  stalk  celery 
Pinch  of  chili  powder 


2  hens 
IVe  lbs.  beef  and  pork 

3  cans  tomatoes 
1  lb.  onions 
salt,  pepper,  Worcestershire  to  taste 

Cook  hen  and  meat  together  until  tender  and  shred — ^Put  back 
in  broth — Add  onions,  celery,  tomatoes  and  seasonings — Cook  until 
it  is  thick — Add  potatoes  and  when  they  are  almost  done,  add  the  corn. 
Be  sure  and  stir  to  prevent  scorching.  Serve  with  dill  pickle,  hot 
buttered  rolls,  coffee  and  apple  pie. 

Mr.  D.  D.  Gorton  (Travelers  Club) 


t 


CORNED  BEEF  (Wonderful) 

8  lbs.  Brisket  (boned) 

8  oz.  salt 

1  tablespoon  pickling  spice 


1  gal  water 

8  oz.  sugar 

1  clove  garlic  (chopped) 


1  tablespoon  salt  peter  or  freezum  pickle 

Mix  all  ingredients  together — Add  meat  to  this  mixture  and 
let  set  in  refrigerator  for  15  days — Then  take  out  and  boil  till  tender. 
Sprinkle  with  paprika  and  brown  sugar. 

Mr.  D.  D.  Gorton 


CHILI  MAC 

1  can  tomatoes 
1  can  chili  with  beans 
1  lb.  hamburger  meat 
1  package  vermicelli 


1  medium  onion 

1  teaspoon  chili  powder 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Cook  onions  in  a  couple  tablespoons  drippings  or  shortening, 
add  meat  which  has  been  seasoned  with  1  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Stir  until  meat  is  thoroughly  browned,  add  rest  of  ingredients, 
simmer  slowly  one  hour.  Serve  over  vermicelli  which  has  been 
cooked  and  well  drained.  Hot  buttered  french  bread,  a  green  salad, 
and  you  have  a  good  meal.  Mrs.  N.  L.  Mayhall 


Page  31 


"DfU    n:^^[ia\    iB^^i    Cook    iBook 


EMERGENCY  STEAK 

1  lb.  ground  beef  ^/^  cup  milk 

1  cup  cereal  flakes  1  teaspoon  salt 

^4  teaspoon  pepper  1  onion  (finely  chopped) 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Shape  like  a  T-Bone  steak. 
One  inch  thick.  Broil  in  broiler  from  8  to  15  minutes.  After  meat 
is  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  other  side. 


1 


BROILED  STEAK 


Place  steaks  in  broiler  or  pan  under  low  flame — When  half 
done,  salt  and  pepper.  Baste  with  butter,  lemon  juice  and  wooster 
sauce.  Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


i 


I 
I 

I  Compliments  of 


I 


C.  E.  JORDAN  6P  CO. 

THE  delta's  oldest  &  LARGEST  FURNITURE  DEALERS 

LEONARD  ELECTRIC  REFRIGERATORS 
EMERSON  &  SPARTON  RADIOS 


Representing  Americas  Finest  Lines  of 
HIGH  GRADE  FURNITURE 

Stores  in 
GREENVILLE  ^  CLEVELAND 


Page  32 


Ufi^    2>sCta^    Be^i    Cook    !BoolL 


SPANISH  STEAK 

3  lbs.  round  steak  1  cup  chopped  celery 
^/2  cup  flour                                             1  cup  water 

Vz  cup  butter  1  can  tomatoes  (No.  2.) 

1^/2  teaspoons  salt  Va  teaspoon  pepper 

4  large  onions  sliced  1  cup  mincea  gieen  pepper 
1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Beat  the  steak  well  with  the  back  of  a  heavy  knife  or  wood 
potato  masher.  Cover  with  the  seasoned  flour  and  beat  flour  well  into 
the  steak.  Dust  off  excess  flour.  Brown  meat  in  the  butter.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  and  cook  until  meat  is  tender. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Switzer 


CRANBERRY  JELLY 

2  cups  cranberries  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  water 

Put  berries  and  water  on  and  let  boil  until  berries  pop.  Add 
sugar  and  cook  until, sugar  is  melted — about  five  minutes.  If  you 
wish  it  without  the  skins  run  through  seive  before  adding  sugar. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 

1 


HAPPY  FEED  STORE 

"Where  Your  Dollar  Buys  More" 

HAPPY  FEEDS  IN  RED  BALL  BAGS 
POULTRY  SUPPLIES  -  BABY  CHICKS 
I  HENS.  TURKEYS,  DUCKS,  PHEASANTS 

i 

I  P.O.  BOX  2714  PHONE  365 


GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


Page  33 


UfU    ^dia.\    !Be^i    Cook    Book 


MEAT  BALLS 

1  pound  ground  meat 

1  small  onion  chopped  finely 
\2  cup  finely  chopped  celery 
^4  cup  finely  chopped  parsley 

2  cloves  garlic 
1  egg 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  thoroughly 

Make  into  balls  and  fry  brown 

Remove  meat  balls  from  skillet  and  fry: 

1  small  onion  chopped  finely 
V2  cup  celery  chopped  finely 

2  cloves  garlic  chopped  finely 
V4  cup  parsley  chopped  finely 

Add  to  mixture: 

1  can  thick  tomato  paste 

IV2  pts.  water 

Let  this  cook  for  ten  minutes  then  add  meat  balls 
Simmer  slowly  for  three  hours. 

SPAGHETTI 

When  meat  balls  and  gravy  have  cooked  three  hours  boil 
separately:  V2  pound  spaghetti  in  three  quarts  boiling  water  for  15 
minutes  or  until  done.    Drain  water  from  spaghetti  and  add  the  gravy. 

Mrs.  Joe  Scoffield 


CRANBERRY  JELLY 

4  cups  cranberries 

1  cup  boiling  water 

2  cups  sugar 

Pick  over  and  wash  berries.  Place  in  a  stew  pan  with  boiling 
water.  Boil  until  all  berries  have  popped  (about  10  minutes).  Pour 
into  a  seive — mash  through  as  much  pulp  as  possible.  Add  2  cups 
sugar,  return  to  the  fire,  bring  slowly  to  a  boil  stirrin??  constantly  so 
that  all  sugar  is  dissolved.    Pour  into  sterilized  jais  or  glasses. 

Mrs.  Thomas  SeUars 


Page  34 


Ufie    ^rCtai.    Bc±i    (2oo^    Boo^ 


\jourL± 


ROAST  TURKEY 

Kill  turkey  a  day  or  two  before  it  is  to  be  cooked  and  keep  on 
ice.  Wash,  drain,  rub  all  over  and  on  inside  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Lightly  sift  a  little  flour  all  over  and  then  pat  with  a  little  brush 
dipped  in  warm  water.  Put  turkey  in  roaster,  with  4  stalks  of  celery 
and  2  medium  onions.  Put  2  stalks  of  this  and  1  onion  on  the  inside 
of  the  bird.  Add  1  quart  of  hot  water.  Bring  all  this  to  a  boil  and 
put  in  oven  on  350°  for  1^/^  to  2  hours.  It  is  hard  to  say  how  long 
to  cook  a  turkey.  If  the  bird  is  young  and  has  had  a  quick  growth 
and  has  not  been  allowed  to  eat  the  wild  things  in  the  woods,  he  will 
cook  much  quicker.  Baste  every  20  to  30  minutes  and  keep  in  oven 
Until  fairly  tender.  Lift  out  of  roaster  and  put  on  a  shallow  pan  and 
brown.  Baste  well  with  only  the  fat  in  roaster.  Carves  better  if 
you  let  it  get  cold.  Mrs.  Katy  Wade 

DRESSING 


1  small  pan  of  very  rich  egg  bread 
%  loaf  of  bread  (white) 
3  medium  size  onions 


4  large  stalks  celery 

2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  sugar 


Mix  with  stock  from  turkey  and  season  with  salt,  black  pepper 
and  celery  seed.  Chop  onions  and  celery  stalk  fine;  cover  with  tur- 
key stock  and  boil  until  very  tender.  Separate  loaf  of  bread  and 
.heat  thoroughly  in  oven;  mix  loaf  of  bread  and  egg-bread,  and  moisten 
with  turkey  stock;  mix  boiled  celery  and  onion;  add  the  2  eggs  beaten 
very  light;  and  seasoning,  and  bake  in  a  shallow  pan.  Vv'hen  done, 
slice.  Mrs.  Katy  Wade 


Page  35 


irfzc    ^stta\    BeU    Cook     "Book 


BAKED  DUCK  (French  Style) 

3  ducks  (picked,  washed,  and  left  to  marinate  in  the  wine  bath 
for  at  least  6  hours  or  overnight)  stuff  with  dressing  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  1  hour  or  until  done. 

Wine  Bath 

1  pint  claret  Several  cloves 

Dash  of  all-spice  1  sliced  onion 

1  sliced  carrot  Piece  of  celery 

Sprig  of  thyme  Bayleaf 

Mix  well  and  place  ducks  in  the  mixture,  turning  them  from 
time  to  time  so  that  all  parts  are  marinated. 

Use  any  dressing  desired. 

Geese,  rabbits,  birds,  squabs,  or  pork  roast  is  excellent  pre- 
pared the  same  way. 


CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

3  or  4  lb.  Hen  3  or  4  limbs  celery 

2  or  3  sprigs  parsley  1  egg 

Juice  of  one  lemon  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Boil  chicken  until  done — then  bone  it.  Grind  chicken,  celery 
and  parsley  together — Beat  egg  and  add  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper. 
Make"  a  medium  white  sauce.     Add  to  this  mixture. 

Put  in  ice  box  to  chill.  Shape  into  bails.  Dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs.      Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Metcalf 


(•IVS^U^AllXStJlXS^'tAS^lXS^'l^^lXWlXS^'tV^^ 


H.  N.  ALEXANDER  &  SONS 

Building  Material 


I  Phones  74  &  75 

3 


iY7^ffi7rTsyr«i?y^i?y^i?yrfif?rtit7rriT7^i^^ 


Page  36 


rJ(U    [heCia^    Be^i    Cook     "Book 


CHICKEN  PIE 

2y2  to  3  pound  hen  1  tablespoon  flour 

V-i      tablespoon  onion  V^  cup  celery  (chopped) 

1  green  pepper  (chopped)  4  hard  boiled  eggs 

2  tablespoons  water 

PIE  CRUST 

Boil  chicken  until  tender  with  celery  and  onion,  salt  to  taste. 
Save  stock  from  chicken  (about  2  cups).  Cut  chicken  into  medium 
size  pieces.  Add  hard  boiled  eggs  and  green  pepper.  Make  paste 
of  water  and  flour  to  thicken  stock.  Put  into  a  deep  dish  and  put 
crust  on  top.       Bake  in  oven  until  crust  is  brown.       Serves  six. 

Mrs.  Owen  McCoy 


SPANISH  RICE  AND  CHICKEN 

1  two  pound  chicken  2  sweet  red  peppers 

2  bruised  garlic  cloves  4  tomatoes  or  Vz  can 
2  white  medium  onions                       Salt  to  taste 

V2  cup  cooking  oil  (olive)  Va  lb.  Rice,  1  Bay  leaf 

Cut  up  chicken  as  for  frying,  fry  in  oil  in  deep  frying  pan; 
add  garhc  and  cloves;  cook  chicken  until  tender  and  golden  brown; 
add  onions  and  peppers  cut  in  slices;  continue  cooking  until  onions  are 
part  brown;  add  tomatoes  skinned  and  quartered;  add  enough  rice 
water  or  stock  to  cover,  salt  to  taste,  lay  bay  leaf  on  top  so  it  can  be 
removed  later;  cover  and  simmer  until  rice  is  done;  add  broth  or  water 
as  needed. 

Mrs.  Dorothy  Bell  Griffin 


.t 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 


1  can  cream  mushroom  soup  1  egg  yolk 

1  cup  cooked  diced  chicken  V2  cup  top  milk 

Vi  cup  pimento       ^ 

Put  soup  in  sauce  pan,  add  milk  gradually,  stir,  heat  to  boil- 
ing add  chicken  and  pimento,  cut  in  strips;  add  egg  yolk,  diluted  with 
some  sauce;  serve  on  toast  or  in  patty  shells. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Wiley 


Page  37 


C7^  U::>du\  iBcif  Coo^  "Boo^ 


6  to  12  hard  cooked  eggs 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


CHICKEN  PIE 

1  4  or  5  pound  hen 

Vz  cup  rice 

Pie  pastry  or  biscuit  dough 

Cook  chicken  with  any  desired  seasoning  until  well  done. 
Chop  meat,  grind  skins  and  mix.  Cook  rice  in  one  quart  of  broth. 
Into  baking  dish  place  rice  and  broth,  chopped  eggs  and  chicken. 
Cover  top  with  pastry  or  small  biscuit.  Dot  with  butter  and  bake 
until  brown.  If  pie  is  dry,  make  incision  and  pour  in  some  broth  or 
cream.      Serves  12  to  15  persons. 

Mrs.  N.  E.  Wingate 


i 


BROILED  CHICKEN 


Select  chicken  weighing  1^  to  1%  pounds. 

Dress  and  wash.  Split  down  back  in  halves.  Place  in  shal- 
low pan.  Baste  chicken  with  3  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  under  broiler,  set  at  500  degrees.  Baste 
with  drippings  every  10  minutes.  Turn  chicken  after  25  minutes  and 
cook  other  side  25  minutes.      Cooking  time  50  minutes. 

Mi's.  A.  E.  Landcaster 


i 


CHICKEN  SALAD 


1  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs 
Homemade  mayonnaise 


5  or  6  pound  hen 

1  large  stalk  of  celery 

Dash  of  red  pepper 

Cook  chicken  till  very  tender  with  a  little  celery.  Mash  eggs 
with  fork  while  still  warm  to  shred  them.  Put  in  refrigerator  to  cool. 
Add  rest  of  ingredients  and  mix  well.      Serves  15. 

Mrs.  Owen  McCoy 


»i:'VS/^'XS/J'vg/:'vs>!J!AS/'LVS/J'XS^'vS>^:'vft(j'v^^ 


Greenville  Dairy  Products  Co. 

Highway  82  Phone  53 

Greenville,  Mississippi 

GRADE  A  PASTEURIZED  JERSEY  MILK 


SrtiiY»v.r/sv(r/8\ir^iys\iri^rrs\h/s\.ry»\/:rs\ 


^mmm 


•    Page  38 


Ufis  n^dicL\  !Bs^i  Coo^  Boo^ 


& 


iauc£± 


STUFFED  CRAB 

1  green  pepper  (minced) 

1  onion  (minced  fine) 

2  tablespoons  parsley 

1  pound  crab  meat 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  (wet) 

Cook  pepper  and  onion  until  soft,  add  parsley,  crab  meat, 
crumbs,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  1  or  two  bay  leaves  and  eggs.  Mix  well, 
cook  five  minutes,  fill  crab  shells.  (If  crab  shells  are  not  on  hand 
use  artificial  sea  shells,  tomato  baskets,  or  green  peppers.  This  same 
mixture  is  delicious  served  on  toast. 

Mrs.  Linda  Haik 


2  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 

Dash  of  cayenne 

Bay  leaf 

Thyme 


CREOLE  GUMBO 

2  cups  cut  okra 

1  large  onion,chopped 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped 

2  tablespoonsful  flour 
IV2  cups  cleaned  shrimp 
1  quart  hot  water 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  black  pepper 


1  teaspoon  chili  powder 
3  tablespoonsful  fat 

2  cloves  garlic,  chopped 
1  green  pepper,  chopped 
1  No.  2  can  tomatoes 

1  cup  oysters 

2  sprigs  parsley,  chopped 


Fry  okra  slowly  in  fat  until  soft,  add  onion,  garlic  and  green 
pepper;  fry  until  onion' is  soft;  blend  in  flour,  add  tomatoes,  add  re- 
maining ingredients,  simmer  slowly  at  least  one  hour.  Gumbo  should 
be  dark  and  thick.  If  canned  shrimp  is  used,  add  the  last  five  minutes 
of  cooking.      Serve  in  soup.  Mrs.  Orville  Cadenhead 


Page  39 


FOSTER  MOTOR  COMPANY 

Greenville,  Mississippi 

Serving  the  Delta  in  Greenville 
Since  1920 


Qeai 


ers   in^ 


^ If  lew    c/iulomobiles 
^Uisea    tyiulomootU 
Claris  ana  &  eal    Oc 

cJjoay,   ana    (Render    ^JJj/ork 


overs 


229  Main  Street 


CHURCH  STALLINGS 


Phone  530 


SIDNEY  STALLINGS 


O)^    ^dia\    Bs^i    Cook    "Book 


DEVILED  SHRIMP  HORS  D'OEUVRES 


8  cooked  shrimp 
V4  cup  mayonnaise 
Curry  powder 


8  rounds  of  bread 

Va  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Parsley 


Place  1  shrimp  on  each  round  of  bread.  Combine  mayonnaise 
with  Worcestershire  sauce  and  add  curry  powder  to  taste.  Top 
shrimp  with  sauce  and  garnish  with  small  sprig  parsley.  Yield:  8 
canapes.  Mrs.  Fred  Krutz 


3  pieces  of  garlic  (minced) 

1  sprig  thyme 

5  tablespoons  tomato  paste 

3  bay  leaves 

Salt  and  pepper 

Boiling  water 


SHRIMP  GUMBO 

1  lb.  okra  (cut  small) 

2  onions  chopped 
1  green  pepper  (chopped) 
V2.  cup  parsley  (minced) 
4  lbs.  shrimp 
8  crabs  (parboiled) 

Fry  okra  until  brown,  add  onion  and  pepper.  Cook  until 
onions  and  pepper  are  soft.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  until  done.       (About  1  hour). 

Linda  Haik 


STUFFED  CRAB 

1  can  white  crab  meat 
1  cup  celery,  chopped  fine 

1  small  bell  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 


2  boiled  eggs 

1  small  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter 

1  can  mushroom  soup 
Dash  red  pepper 


Boil  celery,  onion  and  bell  pepper  until  tender.  Add  every- 
thing together.  Fill  crabshells  with  above.  Sprinkle  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  until  light  brown.  If  you  do  not 
have  crab  shells,  bake  in  casserole  dish.      Serves  6  to  8. 

Mrs.  Innocent  Loyacano 


Page  41 


CTKe    ^dia!^   S^U:    Coolt    SBoo^ 


COCKTAIL  SAUCE 

yz  cup  catsup  or  chili  sauce 

Few  drops  tabasco 

Vz  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  put  in  screw  top  jar  and 
store  in  ice  box. 


Horseradish  to  taste 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Va  teaspoon  salt 


i 


BARBECUE  SAUCE 


2^  cups  tomato  catsup 
2  small  pieces  garlic,  chopped  fine 
2  tablespoons  red  hot  sauce 
Juice  of  one  lemon 


One  onion  chopped  fine 

Vz  pound  butter  or  margerine 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Cook  all  together  slowly  for  one  hour,  stirring  to  keep  from 
scorching. 


I 


BARBECUE  SAUCE 


^A  cup  Lee  and  Perrin  sauce 

Vz  cup  mustard  (with  horseradish) 

yz  cup  each  celery,  sweet  pepper,  onion 

Vz  cup  vinegar 

1  tsp.  each  of  black  and  white  pepper 

1  tsp.  sugar 


2  cups  catsup 
1/^  cup  butter 

1  clove  garlic 

2  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  red  hot  sauce 
Va  cup  lemon  juice 


Sinuner  onion,  celery  and  pepper  in  butter  until  tender.     Add 
other  ingredients  together  and  simmer  for  30  minutes. 

The  late  Ernest  Kelbier  Sr. 


HENRY  T.  CROSBY 

"Delta  Land" 

LAND  LOANS  &  INVESTMENTS 


•l7Ir)^.^^1^rA^<^/av1l/»t1^)^^/s^1^^1^rtl^1^!^^!^^1r/Sv1^^^ 


^m 


Page  42 


OIU    2ir£ta'l   iB«(    Coo^    Booi 


d^ 


u* 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  butter 
6  egg  whites 

2  tablespoons  baking  powder 
Va  pound  citron 
V2  cup  pineapple 
1  pound  green  cherries 
1  pound  almonds 

Sift   and   measure   flour.       Use   2   cups   for   dredging   fruits. 
Sift"  2  cups  with  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  mix  as  in  any  fruit  cake.      Beat 
egg  whites  and  fold  in  last.      Bake  in  low  oven. 

Mrs.  Ernest  Smith 


1  cup  pineapple  juice 

2  cups  sugar 
4  cups  flour 

1  pound  white  raisins 

2  cups  cocoanut  (grated) 
V2  pound  red  cherries 


I 


DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 


1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

2  whole  tggs  1/4  cake  chocolate  (3  sqs.) 

Mix  sugar  and  eggs;  add  milk  and  chocolate.  Put  on  in  top 
of  double  boiler  and  cook  to  the  consistency  of  mush.  Set  aside  to 
cool.       In  a  bowl  mix: 


%  cup  butter  (l^A  sticks) 


1  cup  sugar 
2  eggs  2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda  mixed  in  a  little  hot  water 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  the  cooked  mixture  and  mix  well.  A  cup  of  pecans 
may  be  added  if  desired.  Bake  in  375  degree  oven  until  done.  About 
30  to  45  minutes.      Do  not  over  cook. 

Mrs.  Kate  Sharkey 


Page  43 


C7iSr    U:^dka\    iSedf    Coo^    ^ooH 


FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  (heaping) 

2  tablespoons  coco 
4  cups  flour 

1  cup  strong  coffee 

1  glass  apple  jelly 

1  pound  raisins 

1  pound  nuts 

V2  pound  cherries 

1  pound  dates 

1^2  pound  candied  ginger 

1  teaspoon  nut  meg 

1  teaspoon  cloves 


1  cup  brown  sugar 

6  eggs 

1  cup  molasses 

1  cup  grape  juice 

1  teaspoon  soda 

1  pound  currents 

1  pound  figs 

V2  pound  pineapple 

%  pound  orange  peel 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  allspice 


Soak  fruit  and  spices  over  night  in  the  grape  juice — cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  to  butter  and  sugar  then  add  the 
coco  and  coffee — Dissolve  soda  in  little  water  and  pour  into  moifis.cs 
and  add  to  rest  of  the  mixture.  Add  the  beaten  egg  whites  and  ha^f 
of  the  flour.  Dredge  the  fruit  in  the  other  half  of  the  flour  and  add 
the  two  mixtures.  Bake  very  slowly  2  or  4  hours.  Makes  about  12 
pounds.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Castillow 


I 


SPONGE  CAKE 


5  eggs  (beaten  separately)  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  Vanila 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  bake  in  loaf  of  muffin  pan.    This 
makes  18  muffins.  Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


1 


TATUM  MUSIC  AND  APPLIANCE 
EXCLUSIVE    CROSLEY    DEALER 

01  507  Washington  Ave.  Phone  183 

Greenville,   Mississippi 


Page  44 


O^    ^ctia'^    !B^^t    Coo^    "Book 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

\^h.  cups  butter 
6  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
4  cups  sifted  flour 
1  pound  pecans 
1  pound  pineapple 
1  pound  white  raisins 

Mix  1  cup  flour  with  fruits  and  nuts,  sift  other  dry  ingredients 
together,  cream  butter,  add  sugar.  Add  unbeaten  eggs  one  at  the 
time.  Alternate  flour  and  liquid,  add  fruit  mixture  last.  Bake 
in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Robert  Mann 


1  pound  citron 

2  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
^  cup  whiskey 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  pound  cherries 


\ 


AMBROSIA  CAKE 

3  eggs 

Vi  cup  butter 

3  cups  flour 

V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  cloves 


2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  buttermilk 

2  teaspoons  soda,  mixed  in  buttermilk 
V2  cake  chocolate 

Vz  teaspoon  nutmeg 


Mix  and  bake  in  two  cake  tins. 


2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Boil  until  thick,  then  add: 

1  fresh  cocoanut,  grated 
1  cup  raisins 


TILLING" 

1  pinch  soda 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


1  cup  pecans 

2  oranges,  grated 


icmg. 


Spread  between  layers  and  on  top.      Then  cover  cake  with 


"ICING" 

%  cup  sweet  milk 


2  cups  sugar 

3  tablespoons  cocoa 

Boil  until  forms  hard  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.      Pour 
into  2  beaten  egg  whites.      Beat  until  cool.      Spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Wiley 


Page  45 


rjkc    ^ttta\   !Bc^t    CooH    !Boo^ 


WHITE  LOAF  CAKE 

^/^  cup  butter  6  egg  whites 

V2  cup  flour  IVz  cups  sugar 

3  V2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  butter  until  creamy.  Add  sugar  gradually.  Mix  dry 
ingredients.  Add  alternately  with  the  milk  and  flour  to  the  butter 
mixture.  Add  flavoring  and  fold  in  egg  whites.  Set  oven  at  300 
degrees,  raise  temperature  every  15  minutes  until  it  reaches  350  de- 
grees.     Bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Sellars 


LADY  CAKE 

1  stick  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  flour  (sifted) 

2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Vz  cup  milk 

Whites  of  5  eggs  (beaten  stiff) 

Vz  teaspoon  lemon  extract 


Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  cream  again.  Alternate  flour  and 
milk.  Add  flavoring  and  baking  powder.  Fold  in  egg  whites  uglitiy. 
Pour  into  two  9  inch  pans.      Bake  in  350  degree  oven  about  25  min. 

"FILLING" 

4  egg  whites-  (beaten  stiff) 

1  pound  sugar  (made  into  simple  syrup) 

Cook  syrup  until  threads  from  spoon.  Pour  over  egg  whites, 
beating  constantly.  Use  any  desired  flavor.  Put  between  layers 
an:!  ice  over  top.  Miss  Ann  Moore 


•?l^'l^>^I^L^l>S^.'l^l^-'lvS^'l^»>^:'y*A'l^^^ 


J^BHffiSffi^BSJB^iCTS 


Joe  Goir   Nne  €o# 


STORE    NO.    1 
200  Washington 


STORE    NO.    2 
601  Nelson  St. 


Greenville,   Mississippi 


Page  46 


C7)^  ^dia\  Bi^^e  Cook  !Book 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

Whites  of  11  eggs  1  cup  sifted  flour 

1%  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  almond  flavoring 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Sift  sugar  5  times  and  add  gradually  to  well  beaten  whites. 
Sift  flour  4  times,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  sift  again.  Then  add  flour 
and  flavoring.  Put  in  pan  as  quickly  as  possible  after  mixing.  Bake 
at  350°  for  1  hour.  (Delicious  baked  in  two  layers  which  requires 
just  30  minutes  cooking.) 

"FROSTING" 

2  cups  sugar  6  tablespoons  water 
2  egg  whites  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1/4  cup  white  com  syrup 

Put  sugar,  water  aild  syrup  in  sauce  pan  and  cook  until  it 
forms  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Turn  off  flame  and  let  stand  over 
burner  while  quickly  beating  egg  whites.  Pour  syrup  over  egg 
whites  beating  constantly.  Add  vanilla.  Beat  until  cool  enough 
to  hold  its  shape.      Then  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  W.  N.  Gist,  Sr. 


EGG  NOG  ICE  BOX  CAKE 

7  eggs  1^  pints  whipped  cream 

20  tablespoons  whiskey  7  tablespoons  sugar 

1  doz.  almond  macaroons  2  tablespoons  gelatin 
1%  doz.  lady  fingers 

Beat  egg  (separately)  adding  sugar  to  whites;  add  whiskey 
slowly  to  beaten  yolks;  dissolve  gelatin  in  a  little  cold  water  add  to 
yolks.      Fold  in  whites  of  eggs  (beaten  stiffly)  and  whipped  cream. 

Line  mold  with  lady  fingers,  after  splitting  so  they  will  stand 
up  around  bowl.  Use  crumbs  to  line  bottom  of  bowl.  Add  part  of 
egg  nog  mixture — then  a  layer  of  macaroon  crumbs.  Continue  until 
all  mixture  is  used,  leave  in  ice  box  over  night.  Top  with  whipped 
cream  to  which  sugar  is  added.      This  takes  %  pint  more  cream. 

Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


Page  47 


UfU    ^e[ia,\    lBii±t    CooH    !Boo/^ 


CARAMEL  FUDGE  CAKEL 

4  tablespoons  butter 

legg 

1  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanila 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together 
ents  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  40  minutes, 
powdered  sugar. 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  cup  nut  meats  chopped 
salt  to  taste 

Mix  with  other  ingredi- 
Cut  in  squares  and  roll  in 
Mrs.  Ike  E.  Barnette 


t 


JAM  LOAF  CAKE 

4  whole  eggs  (beaten) 

2  cups  jam 

2  cups  sugar 

IVz  cups  seedless  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


1  cup  butter 

3  cups  pecans 

4  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  allspice 


1  teaspoon  soda  (dissolved  in  1  cup  buttermilk) 

Cream  butter  and  half  of  sugar;  beat  egg  yolks  light  with 
other  half  of  sugar;  add  to  butter  and  sugar.  Put  soda  in  buttermilk; 
add  with  a  little  flour  to  this  mixture,  then  add  egg  whites  and  rest 
of  flour;  add  spices,  raisins,  pecans  and  jam.      Bake  in  loaf  pan. 

Mi's.  Walter  Smith 


i 


ERNEST  WALDAUER  AGENCY 

INSURANCE  —  REAL  ESTATE 

105  South  Poplar  Street  Phone  153 

Greenville,  Mississippi 


Page  48 


C7^    ^^[ta\    Be^i    Coofi    HBooiz 


RED  DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

^2  cup  water 
Vz  cup  cocoa 
1%  cups  sugar 
2^/2  cups  flour 
%  cup  sour  milk 

Mix  water,  soda  and  cocoa,  allow  to  stand  while  you  cream 
butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  one  at  the  time;  beat  well.  Sift  flour  and 
add  salt.  Add  flour  to  creamed  butter  alternating  flrst  mixture  and 
milk.  Bake  45  minutes  in  slow  oven  then  spread  with  seven  minute 
icing,     (see  frostings). 

Mrs.  Hobart  Ogle 


1^/^  teaspoons  soda 
2  /3  cup  butter 
2  eggs 

V2  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


DATE  TORTE 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  broken  nuts 

^/^  cup  flour 


1  cup  dates  (cut) 

2  eggs  (unbeaten) 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


Cream  sugar  and  egg.  Add  flour,  then  other  ingredients. 
Grease  and  flour  pan.  Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Angel 
food  cake  pan  recommended  or  a  pan  9  by  9.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  T.  B.  Lewis 


t 


IV4  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanila 

2V2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2/3  cup  milk 


THREE  LAYER  YELLOW  CAKE 

V2  cup  shortening 
3  eggs 

21A  cups  cake  flour 
V4  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  shortening;  add  the  sugar  slowly,  beating  in  well.  Add 
well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  beat  until  well  blended.  Add  vanila  ex- 
tract. Sift  together  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  milk 
to  first  mixture.  Mix  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  greased 
layer  cake  pans  in  a  moderate  oven  about  25  minutes.  This  makes 
3  layers. 


Page  49 


FOR  GOOD  AND  PROMPT 


Chevrolet 
Service 


COME  TO 


Qlieunolet    Speolaluti 


MEADORS  CHEVROLET  CO. 

BI6  Main  Phone  1008 

Greenville,  Mississippi 


nf^^    ^eCta^    SiTif    ^oo^    !Boo^ 


FUDGE  CAKE 

4  eggs  1  stick  butter 

2  cups  flour  2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  nuts  '  1  teaspoon  vanila 

4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  beat  each  whole  egg  separately,  add- 
ing pinch  of  salt  to  each  egg.  Add  one  at  the  time  to  the  butter  and 
sugar.  Melt  chocolate  in  top  of  double  boiler;  add  flour,  chocolate, 
nuts  and  vanila.  Bake  in  pan  lined  with  greased  brown  paper.  Bake 
30  minutes  at  350  degrees.  Mrs.  Hugh  Gamble 


BANANA  BUTTERSCOTCH  CAKE 

1%  cups  brown  sugar  3  cups  sifted  cake  flour 

%  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

IV2  cups  milk  y?  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  well  beaten  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  1  cup  brown  sugar,  V4  cup  butter  and  V4  cup  milk. 
Cook  to  hard  ball  stage  or  250  degrees  F.,  gradually  adding  remaining 
milk,  heated,  stirring  constantly.  Cool.  Cream  remaining  shorten- 
ing until  soft.  Blend  in  remaining  brown  sugar  and  add  eggs,  beat- 
ing until  light  and  fluffy.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  to 
creamed  mixture  alternately  with  butterscotch  mixture.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.  Bake  in  10  inch  greased  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350  degrees  F.)  about  50  or  60  minutes.  Frost  with  icing  made  by 
mashing  1  banana  into  21/2  cups  confectioners  sugar.  Add  a  dash 
of  salt,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Top  cake  with  sliced  bananas  just 
before  serving.  Mrs.  Fred  Keel 


r 


PECAN  CAKE 


V2  cup  butter  2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  milk  3  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

5  egg  whites  1  cup  shelled  pecans 

Cream  sugar  and  butter;  sift  flour  and  baking  powder,  alter- 
nate with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Add  vanilla  and  pecans,  fold  in  egg 
whites.      Bake.  Mrs.  Ernest  Waldauer 


Page  51 


"DL:    ^dtu\    Bei^t    Coofi    ^ook 


HUSBAND'S  (TOMATO  SOUP)  CAKE 

%  cup  Crisco  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

IV2  cups  tomato  soup  Vh  tsp.  cinnamon 

3  cups  flour  IVa  tsp.  nutmeg 

%  cup  water  1  tsp.  ground  cloves 

2  tsp.  soda  IV2  cups  raisins 

%  tsp.  salt  IV2  cups  nutmeats 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  soup  with  water  and  soda.  Add  to  Crisco  mixed 
with  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  raisins  and  nuts.  Bake  one  hour 
in  moderate  oven. 

Frost  with  frosting  made  by  combining  the  following  ingredi- 
ents: 

1  pkg.  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  Vanilla  extract 

1  egg  yolk  Powdered  sugar 

Mrs.  Ernest  Smith 


1 


H» 


!      GREENVILLE  STEAM  LAUNDRY 
i 


PUILIC  HEALTH 


Launderers  --  Dry  Cleaners 

208  S.  Walnut  Phone  406 

GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


Page  52 


ir(^c    ^dta'i.    !Bci.t    Coo^    !Boo^ 


GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKE  (NO  SUGAR) 

y2  cup  shortening  1  cup  raisins 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  cinnamon 
%  cup  sweet  milk  1  tsp.  soda 

y2  tsp.  allspice  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

1  cup  honey  or  (half  honey,  half  molasses) 

3  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs  (fine) 

2  tablespoons  warm  water 

Roll  crackers  to  fine  crumbs.  Cream  shortening,  honey  and 
eggs  together.  Add  crumbs  and  spices.  Add  fruits  and  nuts.  Mix 
well.  Bake  in  a  greased  and  floured  pan  in  oven  350  degrees  for 
1  hour  and  15  minutes.  Frances  Phillips 


! 


ROCKS 


6  eggs  1  teaspoon  allspice 

%  cup  butter  IV2  pounds  sugar 

1  large  pkg.  dates  6  cups  shelled  pecans 

1  teaspoon  soda  (dissolve  in  3  tbsp.  warm  water) 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

6  cups  sifted  flour  (or  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough) 

Mix  all  ingredients.      Bake  in  a  slow  oven  on  greased  paper. 

Mrs.  H.  N.  Alexander 


DOUGHNUTS  (Took  first  prize  in  "Delta  Fair"  in  fall  of  1911) 

1  quart  sifted  flour  '^/z  teaspoon  salt 

V4  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  V4  cup  shortening 
1  cup  sugar                                             1  cup  milk 

Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  and  nutmeg  until 
mixed.  Cream  eggs,  shortening  and  sugar  until  light;  add  milk  and 
sifted  flour.  Some  qualities  of  flour  require  more  milk  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Roll  out  about  1  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  ring  cutter. 
When  all  are  cut  out,  have  ready  the  frying  kettle  with  sufficient  hot 
fat  to  float  the  doughnuts  while  frying.  Test  with  a  piece  of  dough. 
If  it  comes  immediately  to  the  surface  it  is  hot  enough  to  begin  frying. 
Cook  about  3  minutes,  turning  frequently  to  keep  them  smooth  and 
like  balls.  When  taken  from  fat,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
cinnamon.      (If  you  like  cinnamon).  Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 


Page  53 


"Dfu:    ^dtct\    "Be^i    Coofi     "Book 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  level  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Vi  teaspoon  soda  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

%  cup  sour  milk  2  cups  fkmr  (after  sifting) 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together;  then  add  eggs,  beat 
thoroughly.  Add  nutmeg  and  sour  milk  and  beat  until  very  light; 
add  baking  powder  and  soda  to  flour;  add  flour  to  other  ingredients 
2  cups  at  a  time  until  well  mixed  to  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  about 
Vz  inch  thick  and  cut  with  doughnut  cutter.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until 
brown.  If  desired  sprinkle  with  ^/^  cup  sugar  mixed  with  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon.  Mrs.  Frank  Case 


\ 


ELECTRIC  HOMES,   INC 

WESTINGHOUSE  APPLIANCES 

AND 

SERVICES 
PARAMOUNT  BUILDING 

GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


Page  54 


[7^    ^Jta\    Be^t    Coofi    T>ook 


CREAM  PUFFS 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  boiling  water 

V4  teaspoon  salt  4  eggs 

%  cup  shortening  (at  least  Vz  butter) 

Sift  flour,  measure;  add  salt  and  sift  again.  Combine  shorten- 
ing and  boiling  water  in  sauce  pan;  keep  over  low  heat  until  butter 
is  melted.  Add  flour  all  at  one  time  and  stir  vigorously  over  low 
heat  until  mixture  forms  a  ball  and  leaves  the  side  of  the  pan;  remove 
from  heat.  Add  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  the  time,  beating  thoroughly 
after  each  addition.  Continue  beating  until  a  thick  dough  is  formed. 
Drop  by  tablespoons  onto  a  greased  baking  sheet,  about  2  inches  apart. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  (425**  F.)  about  50  minutes  or  until  beads  of 
moisture  no  longer  appear  on  surface.  Do  not  open  oven  door  during 
early  part  of  baking. 

When  cool  cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  each  and  fill  with  cream 
filling  or  sweetened  whipped  cream.  Sprinkle  tops  with  confectioners 
sugar.      Makes  one  dozen  large  cream  puffs. 

Cream  Filling 

2/3  cup  sugar  2  cups  milk 

V4  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs  or  4  egg  yolks  (slightly  beaten) 

5  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  dry  ingredients  in  top  of  double  boiler;  stir  in  milk 
gradually.  Cook  over  boiling  water  until  thickened,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Cover  and  cook  for  10  minutes  longer,  stirring  occasionally. 
Stir  a  little  of  the  hot  mixture  into  slightly  beaten  eggs;  slowly  stir 
into  the  remaining  hot  mixture.  Cook  over  hot  (not  boiling  water) 
for  2  minutes  stirring  constantly.      Chill;  add  vanilla. 

NOTE:  for  a  richer  filling  add  2  tablespoons  butter  to  the 
hot  cooked  filling;  or  fold  in  Vz  cup  heavy  whipped  cream,  after  the 
filling  has  been  chilled.  Miss  Margaret  Krutz 


•)!,VS^lVS^JLVS^'!AS/.'lXS/.'lVSA'!AS/JLV?A'y.»^ 


CENTRAL 

TOBACCO  &  CANDY  CO. 

WHOLESALE  DISTRIBUTORS 

704-706  Washington  Ave. 

Phone  842 

Greenville,   Mississippi 


•Ifl^rst1ivsvir)^r)r8\irrsviri«vir;rsvir)r8v1h^ir)^^ 


Page  55 


rJL.    ^elia\    !Bc±t    Cook    IBook 


^ 


•\jO 


\:^r 


FOOL-PROOF  FROSTING 

1  cup  white  sugar  1/3  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  karo  syrup  Pinch  Salt 
2  egg  whites 

Boil  sugar,  water,  karo  and  salt  together  until  it  spins  a  thread 
then  slowly  pour  over  two  beaten  egg  whites.  Constantly  beating, 
continue  beating  until  frosting  is  thick,  then  beat  in  two  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  M.  L.  Ridgeway 


1 


ORANGE  GLACE  FROSTING 


4  tablespoons  sugar  4  oranges 

1^  cups  orange  juice  and  water      3  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Dash  of  salt 

Combine  cornstarch,  sugar,  salt,  orange  juice  and  water;  cook 
over  direct  heat  5  minutes  or  until  it  thickens.  Add  1  teaspoon  orange 
rind  and  sections  from  4  oranges.  Drained  well,  sweetened  if  neces- 
sary.    Cool;  spread  between  layers. 


I 


CARMEL  ICING 


2  cups  sugar  %  cup  milk 

Put  on  and  cook  until  sugar  dissolves,  cooking  slowly.  %  cup 
sugar,  in  another  small  pan  and  melt  over  low  heat.  When  melted 
pour  in  first  part,  cook  until  soft  ball  stage;  set  off  to  cool.  Add  4 
tablespoons  butter;  beat  until  creamy;  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Sellars 


Page  56 


C7^    ^J^dta^    Be^t    Coo^    BoaH 


BOILSD  FROSTING 

2  cups  sugar  Vi  cup  white  com  syrup 

6  tablespoons  water  2  egg  whites 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  the  sugar,  syrup  and  water  together  over  a  surface  burn- 
er until  it  reaches  a  temperature  of  240  degrees,  or  forces  a  soft  ball 
in  cold  water.  Turn  off  the  fire  and  let  the  syrup  stand  over  the 
warm  burner  while  quickly  beating  the  egg  whites.  Pour  the  syrup 
slowly  over  the  beaten  egg  whites,  beating  with  a  spoon  while  adding 
the  vanilla  and  beat  until  cold.  This  mixture  will  hold  its  shape 
when  spread  on  a  cake.  If  it  cooks  a  little  too  much  and  hardens 
too  rapidly  add  1  tablespoon  of  hot  water.  If  not  cooked  sufficiently 
it  hardens.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  any  left  over 
frosting  in  a  jar;  cover  tightly,  and  keep  in  refrigerator.  It  will  keep 
fresh  for  a  week.  Then  if  necessary,  add  a  small  amount  of  hot  water 
and  beat  until  it  is  a  good  consistency  to  spread. 

Mrs,  William  Lyon 


i 


WHITE  ICING 


4  egg  whites  2  cups  sugar 

%  cup  water  Z  tablespoons  white  karo  syrup 

V4  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
Vanilla  to  taste 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  karo  until  it  will  form  a-  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  over  well  beaten  egg  whites  and  beat, 
beat,  beat.      Add  powdered  sugar  and  spread. 

Mrs.  R.  N.  Middleton 


t 


SEVEN  MINUTE  ICING 


1  egg  white  (unbeaten)  7/8  cup  granulated  sugar 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  Extract 

Place  egg  white,  sugar  and  water  in  top  of  double  boiler, 
place  over  boiling  water  and  beat  with  beater  for  seven  minutes.  Add 
%  teaspoon  flavoring,  beat  and  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Hobart  Ogle 


Page  57 


HMiaa  i^u  tkliik  of  cfotka4  a^ton  anyyu'inc^ 
tha  |amoa&  naclpoA  o^  tki4  booklat   .... 


Greenley's 

ffke    (Sftore   of   Qfoulkfj  oftnarlness 


The  home  of  nationally 
famous  clothes  for  Men 
and  Boys  .  .  .  and  Smart 
Shoes  for  Ladies  in  addi^ 
don. 


<=>L>  egionaires   make   our  store   ^our 
neaac[uarters  when   m   ^reenville 


rJfU    ^e[ta\    Be^l    Coo^    Boolt 


Co^^' 


SUGARLESS,  BUTTERLESS  CHOCOLATE  SLICES 

2  pounds  Nestles  chocolate  drops  2  cups  unchopped  pecans 


1  can  Eiagle  Brand  condensed  milk 


1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Melt  chocolate  in  double  boiler;  add  milk.  Beat  until  smooth; 
add  nuts  and  vanilla.  Line  deep,  narrow  pan  with  wax  paper,  pour 
in  mixture.      Set  in  refrigerator  until  cold.    Lift  out  and  slice. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Wetherbee 


I 


DATE  COOKIES 

1  cup  chopped  dates 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  tablespoons  water 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  tablespoons  flour 
2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Mix  nuts,  dates,  and  add  sugar,  water,  and  beaten  eggs.  Add 
the  flour,  baking  powder  and  vanilla  to  the  mixture.  Spread  in  pan 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven.      Cut  in  squares  when  cold. 


t 


CHOCOLATE  PECAN  CRISP 


Melt  1  stick  butter,  pour  over  1  cup  sugar  and  2  tablespoons 
chocolate: 


2  eggs  beaten  separately 
Vanilla 


%  cup  sifted  flour 
1  cup  pecans 


Mix   all  ingredients,  bake  in  shallow  pan.       Cut   in   strips. 
Dust  with  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


Page  59 


UL^    ^eCta^    Bc^t    Cook    !Book 


TOFFEE  COOKIES 

1  cup  shortening 

1  egg 

2  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
%  teaspoon  salt 
%  cup  ground  nuts 


Cream  shortening,  add  sugar.  Add  unbeaten  egg  yolk  and 
vanilla.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  cinnamon  together.  Add  to  the  mixture 
a  little  at  the  time  blending  well  after  each  addition.  Pat  out  with 
hands  to  V4  inch  in  thickness  on  well  greased  cookie  sheet,  spread  top 
with  unbeaten  egg  white,  sprinkle  with  ground  nuts,  mark  in  squares 
with  silver  knife.  Bake  30  minutes  in  slow  oven  275  degrees.  Let 
cool  on  cookie  sheet,  lift  off  and  bake  in  squares. 

Mrs.  R.  O.  Norris 


I 


PECAN  ROLLS 

^  pound  butter 

2  cups  flour 

2  cups  chopped  pecans 


4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
2  teaspoons  vanilla 
Pinch  salt 


Bring  butter  to  room  temperature  and  cream  until  fluffy. 
Add  powdered  sugar  and  vanilla.  Then  work  flour  sifted  with  salt. 
Last,  add  chopped  pecans.  Break  off  bits  of  dough  about  as  big  as  a 
small  walnut  and  shape  quickly  into  rolls  about  the  size  of  your  finger. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  (300°)  about  40  minutes  or  until  delicately  brown. 
While  still  warm,  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Wiley  Mock 


i 


'X»y''Vf/J'!«/''VS>tJLVS/«')«/tJL)«^'lXS^lV»^^ 


ji'tv^  ir  ^osde 


L^oruplele    (^Zotne    &urn\ahin.ga 
^reenville,     ^f  flisstssippi 


Page  60 


rj^    ^etiui.   !Bz±i    Cook    !Book 


Vz  cup  pecans 
1  egg 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  cups  oat  meal 

1/4  cup  sweet  milk 


OAT  MEAL  COOKIES 

^/^  cup  shortening 
1  cup  brown  sugar 
^/2  teaspoon  soda 
1  cup  flour 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
y^  cup  cocoanut 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  add  egg  beaten.  Sift  flour, 
baking  powder,  soda  together.  Add  to  creamed  shortening,  sugar 
and  egg.  Add  oat  meal,  cocoanut,  pecans  and  vanilla.  Kneed  until 
well  mixed;  drop  i  nspoonfuls  on  greased  cookie  sheet,  mash  flat  with 
fork.      Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Walter  Smith 


\ 


ORANGE  NUT  STICKS 


Beat  4  whole  eggs.    Add  1  pound  brown  Sugar 

2  cups  sifted  flour 

2  cups  pecans 

18  orange  gum  drop  wedges  (ciit  fine) 

Mix  all  ingredients — ^Pour  in  a  shallow  pan.     Bake  slowly  at 
300  degrees  for  30  minutes.      Cut  in  strips;  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 


Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


i 


%  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs 

1  pkg.  pitted  dates  7V^  oz. 

Vt.  cup  butter 


DATE  AND  NUT  BARS 

Vt.  cup  flour 

V2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  nut  meats 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together.  Beat  the 
eggs  until  light  and  fluffy.  Gradually  add  the  sugar,  beating  while 
adding.  Add  dates  and  nuts  which  have  been  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Add  the  dry  ingredients,  melted  butter  an  vanilla.  Pour  into  greased 
7y4  X  101/2  X  2  inch  pan  and  bake  at  325°  for  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  William  Lyon 


Page  61 


0(^    9::>e[ta's    iBe*f    (2oo/l    !Bool^ 


OLD  FASHIONED  TEA  CAKES 

V2  cup  butter 

2  eggs 

2  cups  flour 


%  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  beaten  eggs  then 
the  vanilla  and  lastly  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together. 
Roll  thinly,  cut  into  rounds  or  diamonds  and  bake  10  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Wells 


t 


ICE  BOX  TEA  CAKES 

1  cup  butter 
1  cup  white  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
8  cups  sifted  flour 

Mix  all  ingredients.      Work  into  two  rolls.      Put  in  ice  box. 
Chill.      Slice  and  bake.  Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


1  cup  brown  sugar 

4  eggs  (beaten  together) 

1%  cups  nuts 


i 


BUTTER  FINGERS 

2  sticks  of  soft  butter 

2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 


4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
1  cup  finely  chopped  nuts 


Mix  all  ingredients  and  roll  in  cakes  about  the  size  of  your 
little  finger.  Bake  in  very  slow  oven  35  or  40  minutes.  When  cold 
roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Kate  Sharkey 


C7^    ^^[ta6.    !BcU    Cook    ^oofi 


ICE  BOX  COOKIES 

51/2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

3  eggs  (slightly  beaten)  \^h.  cups  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

3  sticks  butter 

Sift  flour  once  and  measure;  add  soda  and  sift  three  times. 
Beat  eggs  whole;  add  sugar.  Beat,  then  add  hot  melted  butter.  Beat, 
add  nuts  and  flour.  Let  set  in  ice  box  until  stiff  enough  to  handle. 
Make  into  rolls  and  wrap  in  wax  paper.  Put  in  ice  box  overnight 
and  slice  V4  inch  thick  and  cook  in  quick  oven.  Make  rolls  about  6 
inches  long  and  2  inches  in  diameter.  They  are  better  when  sliced 
thin.     Dough  must  be  kept  in  the  ice  box  until  sliced. 

Miss  Snodie  Howard 


\ 


OLD  FASHIONED  TEA  CAKES 

1/3  cup  butter  3  cups  sifted  flour 

%  cup  sugar  V4  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  V-x  cup  orange  juice 

1  egg  Grated  rind  of  1  orange 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  orange  juice,  rind  and  egg. 
Beat  thoroughly.  Add  a  little  of  this  mixture  at  the  time  to  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder.  Place  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  thin.  Cut 
with  a  large,  round  cutter.  Place  on  a  greased  cookie  sheet,  sprinkle 
with  sugar.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°). 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Wiley 


"THE  SHOE  MEN" 
Greenville,  Mississippi 


Page  63 


The  Name  Plate  over  the  door 
means  as  much  to  the  auto- 
mobile owner  as  the  Name 
Plate  OR  the  car 


England  Motor  Company 


SAL  E  S 


SERVICE 


^o*J  3>ealeU.  Since.  193.6 


OIU    licUa'^    BcU    Cook    JBooyf 


<rpv>' 


}y^" 


DATE  PUDDING 

1  cup  dates  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  shelled  pecans  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  beaten  separately  1  tablespoon  or  more  of  flour 

Dredge  the  nuts  and  dates  with  flour.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
until  stiff  and  fold  in  baking  powder.  Beat  yellows  in  separate  bowl 
and  add  the  sugar.  Now  mix  all  together  and  bake  in  casserole  at 
moderate  temperature  (about  350°)  for  30  minutes  or  until  eggs  are 
cooked.  Mrs.  W.  N.  Gist,  Sr. 


i 


WINE  PUDDING 


4  eggs  Juice  of  2  or  3  lemons 

1/3  cup  red  wine  1/2  cup  sugar 

Break  eggs  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Beat  until  frothy.  Add 
lemon  juice.  Beat  uhtil  combined.  Add  wine,  continue  to  beat  over 
hot  water  until  pudding  thickens.  Remove  from  heat.  Pour  into 
Sherbert  glasses,  chill  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Louis  C.  Davidson,  Jr. 


Page  65 


UfU  1:>dto.\  !Bcd:  Cooi  !Boo^ 


GRATED  SWEET  POTATO  PONE  (Good)  OLD  FASHIONED 

5  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes         3  eggs  beaten 

1  can  condensed  milk  V2  cup  molasses 

1  stick  butter  Cinnamon  and  nutmeg 

MLx  grated  potatoe,  eggs,  milk,  butter  and  molasses  and  add 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  oven  or  pressuie  cooker.  If  cooked 
i«  pressure  cooker,  brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 


MOCK  CHEESE  TART 

36  Graham  crackers  •         6  eggs 

2  cans  Eagle  Brand  milk  1  stick  butter 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons 

Roll  graham  crackers,  cream  butter  and  mix  together;  line  a 
greased  form  mold  fonning  a  pastry  on  bottom  and  sides,  then  fill 
with  mixture  made  of: 

Beat  eggs  separately,  add  lemon  juice  and  rind  to  milk;  add 
well  beaten  egg  yolks,  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Put  into  mold, 
sprinkle  top  with  graham  cracker  crumbs.  Start  baking  in  moderate 
oven  300  degrees  for  40  minutes  then  bake  for  10  minutes  on  storage 
heat.  Mrs.  Kate  Sharkey 

t 


Theater  Bowling 


Center  Amusements         j 

Sport  for  the  Entire  Family 


Soda  Fountain  Highway  82 


I 

J 


Page  66 


117^    ^dta.^    !Beiit    Cook    !Booli 


Lpa±i%L£6. 


CHEESE  PIE 

1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

^^  stick  butter 

Mix  and  cook  in  uncooked  pie  crust. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 


6  eggs,  if  small,  4  if  large 
IV^  cups  sugar 
Pinch  salt 


ORANGE  PIE 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange 

Large  cup  sugar 

3  egg  yolks  (well  beaten) 


Juice  of  two  oranges 
Heaping  tablespoonful  flour 
2  tablespoonsful  melted  butter 


Stir  together  sugar,  flour,  egg  yolks,  adding  butter  last.    Cook- 
ed pastry. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Parks 


t 


CUSTARD  PIE 

2  cups  milk 

V4  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs 


%  cup  sugar 

V4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

%  teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  salt,  nutmeg  and  vanilla  and 
mix  well.  Add  scalded  milk.  Line  pie  plate  with  pastry  and  cook 
about  five  minutes.  Pour  in  mixture  and  bake  at  450°  for  fifteen 
minutes  and  325°  for  25  minutes.  (If  cocoanut  pie  is  desired,  add 
one  cup  grated  cocoanut  to  filling  mixture. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Carroll 


Page  67 


Jitney   Jungle 

Self-Service  Food  Store 


GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


Home-Owned  Home-Operated 
A  Greenville  Booster 

Your  Money  Stays  in  Greenville 


L.  E.  BONNER 

OWNER  AND  OPERATOR 


CHARTER  MEMBER 

HENRY  GRAVES  POST  NUMBER  ONE 

JACKSON,  MISSISSIPPI 

151^  F.  A.  RAINBOW  DIVISION 

PURPLE  HEART  AND  OTHER  CITATIONS 


UfU    ^dta'^    Bed:    Coofi    !Boo^ 


HYPOCRITE  PIE 

Line  pan  with  raw  crust,  a  thin  layer  stewed  fruit  (peaches 
or  apricots),  cover  with  rich  egg  custard.      Bake. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Parks 


1 


LEMON  PIE 


%  cup  lemon  juice  Wa  cups  sugar 

3  eggs  separated  y2  cup  flour  (sifted) 

1  cup  watA-  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Mix  sugar  and  flour.  Add  water  and  slightly  beaten  egg 
yolk.  Then  lemon  rind.  Cook  until  thick;  take  off  stove  and  add 
lemon  juice.  Put  in  baked  pie  shell  and  top  with  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites  to  which  has  been  added  2  level  tablespoons  sugar  for  each  egg 
Put  in  oven  and  bake  until  firm  and  brown. 

Mrs.  D.  D.Gorton 


I 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 


%  cup  sugar  2^  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Pinch  of  salt  1  measuring  cup  crushed  pineapple 

y2  cup  orange  juice  3  eggs 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Separate  eggs,  saving  whites  for  mer- 
ingue. Beat  egg  yolks  in  saucepan,  add  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  pmeapple  and  orange  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Bake  in  precooked  pie  shell  until  meringue  is  brown.  This  makes 
1  9  inch  pie.  Mrs.  Fred  L.  Feilder,  Sr. 


I 


APPLE  PAN  DOWDY 


In  casserole  dish,  put  a  layer  of  sliced  apples;  then  a  layer  of 
grated  cheese;  then  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs.  Repeat  until  casserole 
is  filled.  Pour  1  cup  of  pineapple  juice  over  this  and  bake  until  done. 
Yum!  Yum!  Lucy  White 


Page  69 


OIU    ^eCiui    BcU    Cook    Book 


RHUBARB  PIE 

3  cups  cooked  rhubarb  1%  cups  sugar 

2  eggs  4  tablespoons  flour 

Lump  butter 

Beat  eggs.      Add  sugar  and  flour.      Mix  thoroughly.      Add 

cooked  rhubarb  and  butter.  Blend.       Pour  into  a  9- inch  pie  pan 

lined  with  unbaked  pastry.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  about 

30  minutes.  Mrs.  Wiley  Mock 


t 


APPLE  PIE 


4  or  5  tart  apples  %  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 

V4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Sift  flour,  sugar  and  cinnamon  together.  Line  pie  plate  with 
pastry.  Slice  apples  in  plate,  sprinkle  with  flour  mixture  and  butter. 
Add  apple,  sugar  and  butter  until  plate  is  heaping.  Make  top  crust 
in  strips.      Bake  and  serve  with  cheese.  Mrs.  A.  G.  Wiley 


THE  FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK 
OF  GREENVILLE  MISSISSIPPI 

CHARTERED  1887 


MEMBER  FEDERAL  DEPOSIT  INSURANCE  CORPORATION 
MEMBER  FEDERAL  RESERVE  SYSTEM 

COMPLETE  BANKING  FACILITIES 


Page  70 


U(U    U:^dta\    IBr^t    CooH     "Boofi 


LEMON  ICE  BOX  PIE 

3  egg  yolks  Juice  of  2  lemons  1  can  condensed  milk 

Beat  eggs  well  then  add  condensed  milk.  Put  in  pie  crust  of 
vanilla  wafers.  Make  meringue  of  egg  whites.  Brown  in  oven. 
Cool.      Place  in  refrigerator.  Mrs.  David  Bates 


i 


AMBROSIA  PIE 


Juice  of  2  oranges  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Grated  orange  rind  3  eggs  (separated) 

V2  cup  flour  (sifted)  1  cup  grated  fresh  cocoanut 

Mix  sugar  and  flour.  Add  orange  and  lemon  juice  to  this 
dry  mixture.  Add  slightly  beaten  egg  yoiks  and  orange  rind.  Cook 
until  thick.  Put  in  cooked  pie  crust.  Add  cocoanut  on  top  then  top 
with  meringue.  Brown.  Always  add  2  level  tablespoons  of  sugar 
to  each  egg  white.  Mrs.  D.  D.  Gorton 


1 


LEMON  PIE 


5  eggs  (separated)  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  tablespoon  butter  (melted)  1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  cream 

Beat  5  yolks  and  2  whites  of  eggs;  add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and 
rind;  add  cream  and  butter.  Pour  into  pie  shell  and  cook  until  almost 
firm,  leaving  soft  spot  in  center.  Beat  3  egg  whites  for  meringue,  add- 
ing 1  tablespoon  sugar  for  each  white.  Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


J 


PECAN  PIE 


2  cups  brown  sugar  2  whole  eggs 

1/3  cup  milk  1/3  cup  butter 

Pecans 

Mix  sugar  with  melted  butter  and  eggs,  which  have  been 
beaten.  Put  in  uncooked  pie  shell  and  put  pecans  on  top  as  thick  as 
you  wish.  Bake  40  minutes  or  until  crust  is  brown  and  filling  is  done. 
Do  not  have  oven  to  hot.  Mrs..  H.  L.  Wells 


P^e  71 


-^^^^ 


QtufUfUimeHii.   *7o^- 


THE 


AMERICAN  LEGION 


AND 


THE  LEGION  AUXILIARY 


FROM  fl  FRIEND 


Ufic    n:^ttia^   !BE^t    Cooli    !Boo(i 


SOUTHERN  PECAN  PIE 

1  cup  pecans  3  eggs 

1/3  cup  sugar  "  1  cup  corn  syrup 

Vs  teaspoon  salt  V4  cup  melted  butter 
1-9  inch  unbaked  pie  shell 

Line  pastry  shell  with  pecans.  Beat  eggs,  add  corn  syrup, 
sugar,  salt  and  butter;  turn  into  crust.  Bake  in  hot  oven  425  degrees 
for  10  minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  moderate  (350°)  and  cook  40  minutes 
longer.  Cool  before  serving.  Mrs.  Fred  Krutz 


i 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 


2  eggs  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

1/3  cup  coco  lump  butter 

Beat  egg  yolks  and  gradually  beat  in  sugar.  Make  paste 
of  coco  and  flour  with  a  little  milk  and  add  to  yolk  and  sugar  then  add 
balance  of  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  pour  into 
partly  baked  pie  crust  and  finish  cooking.  Then  top  with  meringue 
and  bake  slowly  until  it  browns.  Mrs.  R.  R.  Barwick 


\ 


ANGEL  FOOD  PIE 


Beat  4  egg  whites  until  almost  stiff.  Add  V^  cup  sugar,  add 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  until  mixture  stands  alone.  Put  into  baked 
pie  shell.  Place  in  slow  oven  (300°)  and  bake  until  whites  are  slight- 
ly browned  about  30  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  allow  to  cool. 
Whip  one  cup  whipping  cream,  add  Vz  cup  sugar  and  Vz  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Spread  evenly  over  the  pie.  Sprinkle  with  1  cup  nut  meats 
ground. 

Crust 

1  cup  flour  1  pinch  salt 

4  tablespoons  shortening 

Add  enough  ice  water  to  hold  mixture  together.  Bake  in 
hot  oven.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 


Page  73 


UfU    n^t[ia.\    !Bcit    Cook    Book 


MOLASSES  PIE 

3  whole  eggs  1  scant  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  molasses 

1  lump  butter  2  tablespoons  buttermilk 

Mix  all  ingredients  eind  bake  slowly  in  unbaked  pie  crust. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Barwick 


KARO  PECAN  PIE 

4  eggs  well  beaten  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  blue  label  Karo  1  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  corn  meal  3  tablespoons  butter 
1  pinch  salt 

Beat  eggs  well.    Add  other  ingredients.  Add  chopped  pecans. 

Have  pie  shell  partly  baked.  Pour  mixtiu'e  into  the  shell  and  finish 

baking  at  350°.  Mrs.  Thomas  Sellars 


I 


"APPLE  CRUM  TOP  PIE"  FILLING 

Shce  8  or  10  medium  size  apples  very  thin.  Place  in  deep 
pan.  Mix  with  2/3  cup  sugar.  Dot  with  butter  and  nutmeg.  Add 
2  or  4  tablespoons  water. 

TOP 

V2  cup  brown  sugar  %  cup  butter 

1  cup  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well.  Then  add  flour,  mix  well, 
spread  on  top  apples.      Cook  35  or  40  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Bradley 


I 


LEMON  PIE 


2  egg  yolks  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  custard  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  then  add  juice  of  2 
lemons,  pour  into  partly  baked  pie  shell,  bake  until  done.  Then  put 
meringue  on  top  and  bake  until  it  browns. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Barwick 


Page  74 


C7/^£    ^N^r^a'A    Bi^^L    Cook     "Book 


ZWIEBACK  PIE 

1  box  zwieback  V2  cup  melted  butter 

1/3  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Roll  zwieback  with  rolling  pin.  Add  melted  butter  and  sugar, 
cinnamon.  Mix  thoroughly,  spread  in  bottom  of  pan.  (take  out  one 
cup  of  mixture  for  top.) 

"FILLING" 

3  eggs  2  cups  sweet  milk 

%  cup  sugar  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  yolk  of  eggs  well.  Add  sweet  milk  to  vanilla.  Beat 
well  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.      Pour  into  crust. 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  (without  sugar).  Spread  over  pie 
mixture.      Sprinkle  top  with  the  cup  of  crumbs.      Bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Bradley 


LEMON  PIE 

3  eggs  Butter  (size  of  a  walnut) 

2/3  cup  granulated  sugar  2  lemons 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  \  'Z  cup  milk  ^ 

Beat  sugar  and  egg  yolk  together.       Add  melted  butter  and  j 

corn  starch;  add  milk.      Stir  well,  add  juice  of  lemons  and  grated  rind  ^ 

of  one  lemon.       Pour  into  unbaked  pie  crust  and  bake  slowly  until  \ 

custard  is  firm.      Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  add  3  tablespoons  sugar  j 

and  spread  on  top  of  pie.      Set  in  oven  at  350°  until  light  brown.  I 

Mrs.  Lillie  Roy  \ 


t 


UPSIDE  DOWN  LEMON  CUSTARD 

1  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  eggs  Pinch  salt 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter  1  cup  milk 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon 

Melt  butter  in  sauce  pan,  add  milk,  lemon  juice  rind  and  un-         j 
beaten  egg  yolks.      Sift  in  dry  ingredients  and  beat  well,  fold  in  stiff-  \ 

ly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  greased  custard  cups  and  place  in  \ 
pan  that  has  been  filled  with  about  V\  inch  water.  Bake  at  350  de-  \ 
green  for  about  45  minutes. 


Page  75 


UfU    rbdtci\    !Be±t    Cooti    ^ood 


<i 


.0* 


t*v 


<p 


i,V 


^^ 


VANILA  ICE  CREAM  (This  recipe  makes  2  gaL) 


Vanila  to  taste 
4  cups  sugar 
10  or  12  eggs 


4  qts.  milk 

5  or  6  heaping  tablespoons  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 


Put  milk  in  double  boiler  or  large  container  over  boiling  wat- 
er. Blend  sugar  flour  and  salt  while  milk  is  heating.  Dip  up  enough 
warm  milk  to  make  a  paste  with  flour  and  sugar,  stir  paste  into  milk. 
Beat  eggs  and  add  to  mixture.  Stir  until  spoon  coats.  Cover  with 
tight  lid  and  turn  flame  real  low.  Cook  10  minutes.  Stirring  a  few 
minutes.      Cool;  add  vanilla  in  freezer. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Taggart 


CUSTARD  ICE  CREAM 

4  eggs  2  cups  sugar 

1/3  cup  flour  1  quart  milk 

2  tall  cans  evaporated  milk  Va  teaspoon  salt 
1  pt.  whipping  cream 

Separate  eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  add  dry  ingredients  which 
have  been  mixed.  Add  quart  milk  and  cook  until  thickened  in 
double  boiler.  Cool,  add  evaporated  milk  and  cream  whipped.  Beat 
whites  and  add  to  mixture.  Add  vanilla  to  taste.  If  fruit  is  desired  add 
when  mixture  is  half  frozen.  This  mixtvwe  is  not  recommended  for 
mechanical  refrigerators,  but  for  hand  freezers. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Carroll 


Page  76 


KELVINATOR 


223  Main  Phone  373 

GREENVILLE,  MISSISSIPPI 


17)^    ^E.[ta.\    !BeU    CooH    !Booli 


c^' 


'\X> 


CARAMEL  CANDY 

%  cup  sugar,  browned 
1  cup  milk 
1  cup  cream 


2  tablespoons  butter 
2  cups  white  sugar 


Melt  Vz  cup  of  sugar  until  brown  then  add  the  scalded  milk; 
add  cream  and  cook  slowly  until  soft  ball  forms  when  tested  in  cold 
water,  then  cool  for  a  few  minutes;  add  butter.  Cut  into  squares  be- 
fore too  hard. 

Helen  Miller 


i 


BROWN  AND  WHITE  KISSES 

2  egg  whites 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


%  cups  sugar 

%  cup  bitter  chocolate 


Beat  egg  whites  imtil  stiff;  add  sugar  gradually  when 
thoroughly  mixed  pour  in  chocolate.  Drop  on  pan  lined  with  brown 
paper;  bake  35  minutes  in  oven  275  degrees  or  until  brown. 

Floriana  Donovan 


Page   78 


ni^e    ^tCta\    !Be±i    Coofi    !Boo/^ 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  (Without  sugar.) 

1  cup  nuts  (chopped)  6  marshmallows  (cut  fine) 

2  seven  ounce  pkgs.  chocolate 

1  can  Eagle  Brajid  Con.  milk  (nonsweetened) 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water;  stir  in  milk;  add  marshmallows. 
After  all  is  melted  remove  from  stove;  add  nuts,  don't  stir.  Pour  in 
dish  to  cool  4  or  5  hours.  Then  cut  in  squares.         Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 


I 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 


2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanila 

V2  cup  water  2  tablespoons  karo 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  coco 

Pinch  of  salt  i/^  cup  cream  or  whole  milk 

Boil  sugar,  karo  and  water  until  it  threads.  Add  cream, 
butter,  coco,  vanilla  and  salt;  stir  until  well  mixed.  Cook  until  soft 
ball  forms  in  cup  of  cold  water.  Remove  from  heat  and  cool  until 
luke  warm.  When  cool  beat  vigorously.  If  it  hardens  too  fast  add 
a  teaspoon  cream  at  a  time  and  continue  to  beat.  When  creamy  add 
nuts  and  drop  on  a  greased  platter.  j^  iq^^^i  WiUiams 


i 


BUTTERSCOTCH 


Pinch  of  salt 
1  cup  dark  karo 


1  cup  sugar 

1  stick  butter 

2  tablespoons  water 

Cook  at  a  slow  boil  until  a  candy  string  and  then  pour  m 
a  pan.  Mrs.  Fred  O'Bannon 


f 


CREAM  CANDY,  PULLED 


3  cups  sugar  1  cup  of  water  hot  or  cold 

Pinch  of  soda  Pinch  of  salt 

1  tablespo<:)n  vinegar  1  lump  of  butter  (size  of  walnut) 

Dissolve  on  a  slow  fire  and  cook  without  stirring.  Cook  fast 
and  when  almost  done  drop  a  cup  of  cream  in  but  do  not  let  it  stop 
boiling.  When  it  threads  drop  a  little  in  cold  water,  if  it  is  hard  enough 
to  crack  on  cup,  it  is  done.  Pour  on  a  buttered  slab  or  dish.  Let  cooJ 
and  pull  for  30  minutes.      Cream  may  be  omitted. 

Mrs  H.  L.  Wells 


Page   79 


OKe    n:^e[ia,\   Se^f    CaoH    !Booli 


0 


J^ 


SPANISH  OMELET 

(Prepare  sauce  first) 
Sauce 

4  tablespoons  bacon  drippings 

1  can  tomato  paste 

1  cup  stuffed  olives  (chopped) 

1  tablespoons  celery 

1  cup  english  peas 

1  tablespoon  bell  pepper 

1  cup  water 

3  tablespoons  onion 

1  can  tomatoes 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Brown  onions,  bell  pepper  and  celery  lightly  in  drippings — 
add  tomatoes,  tomato  paste,  salt,  pepped  and  water.  Cook  slowly  for 
1  hour.  Add  english  peas  and  olives  sinuner  for  15  minutes. 

Omlet 

6  eggs 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch 
Vs  teaspoon  pepper 
1  tablespoon  cream 
%  teaspoon  salt 

Separate  eggs.  Beat  into  yolks  the  cream,  salt,  pepper  and 
cornstarch.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Put  in  greased  shallow  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  Remove  to  hot  platter — cut 
in  half — ^pour  part  of  sauce  over  half — place  other  half  on  top  and 
pour  remaining  sauce  over  it. 

Ifrs.  George  Helmd 


Page  80 


C7^    ^c[icx\    Sc±t    Cook    !Boofi 


Favorite  Recipes  Served  the  Legion  by  the  Auxiliary 
Serving  100  People 


^^^^^  3  pounds  sugar 

12 — 46  oz.  cans  orange  juice  4 — 46  oz.  cans  pineapple  juice 

4  cups  lemon  juice  8 — 46  oz.  cans  grape  fruit  juice 

1  qt.  cherries  1/2  gal.  strong  tea  (base) 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  pour  over  crushed  ice. 


i 


STUFFED  TOMATOES 


V2  cup  prepared  mustard 

7  lbs.  cottage  cheese 

Vi  cup  lemon  juice 

1  qt.  relish  (fine  textured) 


100  medium  sized  tomatoes 

'^k  can  chopped  chives 

2  qts.  mayonnaise 

¥2  cup  mincea  parsley 

1  cup  chopped  sweet  peppers 

Mix  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Peel  tomatoes  removing 
hard  core.  Scoop  out  part  of  centers,  drain.  Stuff  with  filling,  place 
on  lettuce  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


\ 


CHEESE  CARROTS 


4  lbs.  cheese  (brick)  2  teaspoons  onion  juice 

2  teaspoons  salt  1  V2  teaspoons  paprika 

V^  teaspoon  red  pepper  Parsley 

Let  cheese  get  room  temperature  (until  soft).  Form  with 
palms  of  hand  into  small  carrot  shape.  Place  sprig  of  parsley  in  large 
end  to  form  carrot  top.  Place  on  wax  paper  and  chill.  This  makes 
about  150  carrots. 


POTATO  SALAD 

¥2  bushel  of  potatoes  2  pints  pimento 

3  bunches  minced  celery  5  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs 

4  large  bell  peppers  (chopped)         1  cup  lemon  juice 

4  large  onions  (minced)  1  gal.  mayonnaise 

5  pints  chopped  pickles  (sweet  and  dill) 

Cook  potaoes  in  jackets  until  tender.  Combine  all  ingredients 
together.  Season  with  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Chill.  (Serves  100.) 


3  6 

'5 


Page  81 


C7i^  n::>dta\  !Bz^t  Cooik  "Book 


BAKED  HAM 

1  ham  (12  to  15  lbs.)  3  slices  pinapple 

Cherries  3  cups  water 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  \k  coco  cola 

V2  cup  syrup  fiom  pickle  or  fruit  juice 

Bone  ham  and  tie  with  string.  Place  in  pan  with  water.  Bake 
at  350  degrees  for  2  hours.  Drain  drippings  from  pan.  score  ham 
and  place  pineapple  and  cherries  on  top.  Baste  with  Coco  Cola  and 
syrup  and  bake  for  1  hour.  Total  baking  time  3  hours.  (1  ham  serves 
about  50.) 


\ 


SPAGHETTI  AND  MEAT  BALLS  (Serves  100) 

12  lbs.  hamburger  meat  3  lbs.  onions 

1  cup  parsley  (minced)  1  V2  lbs  cheese,  grated 

2  stalks  celery  (chopped  fine)  8  large  bell  peppers 

12  teaspoons  salt  8  teaspoons  chilli  powder 

5  no.  2  cans  tomatoes  8—8  oz.  cans  tomato  sauce 

4  tablespoons  black  pepper  8 — 8  oz.  cans  water 

8  lbs.  spaghetti  1  lb.  box  crackers 

12  eggs  1  V2  lb.  shortening  or  oil 

Mix  into  meat,  eggs,  salt,  chilli  powder,  cracker  crumbs, 
cheese,  black  pepper,  parsley  and  V4  chopped  onion.  Form  into  balls 
and  fry  until'brown. 

SAUCE 

Use  drippings  from  meat  balls  and  fry  celery,  bell  peppers 
and  onions  until  tender;  add  tomato  sauce,  tomatoes  and  balance 
of  seasonings. 


the  photographs  in  this  book 
were  conceived  and  executed  by 

bern  keating 

photographer 
phone  2441  doJ^  B44d(UH^        greenville,  miss. 

Page  82 


rjfic    ^eCka^    !BcU    CooH    !Boo^ 


<z 


'^c 


y 


TOMATO  RELISH 


1  cup  salt 

4  lb.  cabbage 

6  large  green  peppers  sweet 


1  qt.  onions  (8  large) 

1  gal.  green  tomatoes 

2  hot  peppers  (seeded) 
6  large  red  peppers,  sweet 

Chop   fine   and   put   into   crockery   all   ingredients,   sprinkle 
salt  over  top  and  let  stand  over  night  or  at  least  6  hours. 
Drain;  then  mix: 

3  lb.  sugar  2  teaspoons  mustard 
1  teaspoon  celery  salt                         1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  cloves  1  teaspoon  tummeric 

2  teaspoons  gmger 

Add  chopped  vegetables  to  this  mixture  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
Boil  for  30  minutes.    Put  in  hot  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Jack  Meroney 


I 


ICE  PICKLE 


1  tablespoon  tummeric 

2  gal.  water 
5  lbs.  sugar 

5  sticks  cinnamon 


7  lbs.  green  tomatoes 

2  cups  lime 

1  qt.  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  mace 

1  tablespoon  whole  cloves 

Wash  and  slice  tomatoes,  soak  for  24  hours  in  water  and 
lime.  Mix  sugar,  vinegar,  mace;  cloves  and  tummeric.  Let  come  to  a 
boil.  Drain  tomatoes  and  pour  this  mixture  over.  Soak  24  hours. 
Drain  syrup  and  boil,  then  add  tomatoes  and  cook  20  minutes.  Re- 
move tomatoes  and  cook  syrup  until  thick.  Pour  over  tomatoes  and 
put  in  hot  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  B.  J.  Dottery 


Page  83 


CJf^s    ^stta'^    Sxif    Cco^    !3ool^ 


DUTCH  SALAD  PICKLE 

2  qts.  gre«[i  tomatoes  1  qt.  cabbage 

1  qt.  onions  3  or  4  bell  peppers  (seeded) 

Grind  through  coarse  meat  chopper;  add  %  cup  salt,  cook 
a  few  minutes,  then  make  dressing. 

DRESSING 

3  cups  sugar  1  cup  flour 

1  can  colemans  dry  mustard  1  tablespoon  tummeric 

2  qts.  vinegar  1  qt.  chopped  cucumbers 

Sift  together  sugar,  flour,  mustard  and  tummeric  then  slowly 
add  1  qt.  vinegar,  then  remaining  vinegar  hot.  Cook  to  consistency 
of  starch.  Add  first  mixture,  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  chopped  cucumbers. 
Place  in  jars  and  s^d.    Makes  about  11  qts. 

Mrs.  Tom  Hood 


1 


WATERMELLON  RIND  PICKLE 

4  lbs.  watermellon  rind  1  gaL  cold  water 

3  tablespoons  slack  lime  2  qts.  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  whole  allspice  1  tablespoon  whole  cloves 

2  long  pieces  cinnamon  2  pieces  ginger  root 

1  lemon  peel  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  lbs.  granulated  sugar  1  qt.  boiling  water 

Select  firm,  thick  melon  rind;  remove  all  pink  meat  and 
green  skin  weigh;  cut  into  cubes  or  strips.  Dissolve  the  lime  in  the 
gallon  of  water  add  rind  and  let  stand  about  4  hours;  rinse  rind  and 
cover  until  tender;  let  stand  over  night  in  cooking  water.  Combine 
all  other  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil;  add  rind  and  boil  gently 
imtil  rind  is  clear.  Remove  spices,  pack  rind  into  hot  jars  and  seal 
immediately. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 


Page  84 


UfU    ^Jta'^    B^^t    CooH    Boolz 


MIXED  PICKLE  WITH  MUSTARD  DRESSING 

1  qt.  small  cucumbers  4  green  peppers  cut  fine 

1  qt.  of  button  onions  1  qt.  of  sliced  green  tomatoes 

1  large  cauliflower  (separated  into  f lower etts) 

Make  a  brine  of  1  pt.  of  salt  to  four  qts.  of  water  and  pour 
over  green  vegetables.    Let  stand  24  hours.    Drain  in  colander. 

Make  dressing  of  1  cup  of  sifted  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  tum- 
meric,  6  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard  and  V2  cup  sugar. 

Mix  thoroughly.  Make  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  vinegar. 
Add  sufficient  hot  vinegar  to  this  to  make  2  quarts  of  dressing.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Put  in  vegetables  and  heat  thoroughly 
before  sealing  in  hot  mason  jars.  Mrs.  Edmund  Taylor,  Sr. 


1 


LAUNDRY  SOAP  (Cold  Process) 

3  qts.  water 

1  can  lye 

2  qts.  melted  grease 

3  heaping  tablespoons  borox- 

Dissolve  lye  and  borax  in  the  cold  water.  It  will  become 
very  hot.  Let  it  cool,  then  pour  in  the  melted  grease,  very  slowly. 
(If  grease  is  from  boiled  ham  and  has  water  in  it  then  use  a  little  less 
water  and  more  grease.)  Stir  20  minutes  or  longer.  When  cool  and 
before  it  gets  hard  cut  in  cakes  the  size  you  want.  Leave  in  pan  until 
hard. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Wells 

(Obtained  from  Mrs.  Nsainie  Collins,  Flemingburg,  Ky.)  Easy 
to  make  and  good  soap. 


Page  85 


GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS 


1.  When  vegetables  bum.  place  the  boiler  containing  the  food 
in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes;  then  put  the  food  in  a  second  boiler  or 
pan.      This  will  remove  the  scorched  taste  from  the  vegetables. 

2.  Add  grated  raw  potato  to  your  soup  when  you  have 
added  too  much  salt.      The  potato    will  neutralize  the  salt  flavor. 

3.  When  you  wish  to  remove  clinging  odors  from  your  hands, 
wash  them  in  water  to  which  salt  or  baking  soda  has  been  added. 

4.  To  remove  garlic  odor  from  hands,  rub  with  dry  mustard 
and  wash  thoroughly. 

5.  When  preparing  fiuit  salad — ^bananas,  peaches,  pears  or 
apples,  sprinkle  with  lemon  Juice  as  soon  as  they  are  cut.  This  will 
prevent  discoloration  from  exposure  to  air. 

6.  An  easy  way  of  peeling  tomatoes  consists  of  picking  up 
with  a  fork  and  exposing  to  gas  flame  foi-  just  a  second.  Ripe  or  un- 
ripe tomatoes  may  be  peeled  this  way. 

7.  Lemons  thoroughly  heated  before  squeezing  will  give 
nearly  double  the  quantity  of  juice  obtained  ordinarily. 

9.  In  using  a  double  boiler  the  food  will  cook  more  quickly 
if  the  water  in  the  lower  boiler  is  salted.  Using  Vi  cup  of  salt  to  one 
quait  of  water. 

10.  To  clean  tarnished  silver:     Cover  with  sour  milk  let  stand 
for  one  half  hour  then  wash  and  dry. 

11.  A  few  crumbs  added  to  scrambled  eggs  will  improve  the 
flavoi". 

12.  One  teaspoon  of  com  starch  to  each  cup  of  sugar  makes 
fudge  a  smoother  texture. 


Mississippi 


Page  86 


13.  If  there  is  left  over  chicken,  ham  or  beef,  chop  and  season 
well.  Spread  on  squares  of  pastry,  moisten  with  a  little  milk,  roll  up 
like  a  jellie  roll  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

14.  A  quick  frosting  for  a  cake  can  be  made  of  mashed  ripe 
bananas,  sweetened  to  taste  and  combined  with  whip  cream. 

15.  To  clean  windows,  pictures,  and  mirrors  add  1  tablespoon 
vinegar  to  each  quart  of  hot  water.  Dip  chamois  skin  in  this  wring 
dry  and  one  application  with  chamois  is  enough  to  clean  and  polish 
unless  window  is  particularly  dirty  then  repeat  the  process. 

16.  To  improve  color  and  flavor  in  gravies  burn  Va  cup  of 
sugar  in  a  skillet  until  very  dark  brown,  stirring  constantly.  Add  1 
cup  water,  stir  until  dissolved.  Bottle  and  use  a  couple  of  tablespoons 
when  making  gravy  or  brown  sauces. 

17.  Coffee  pots  and  teapots  should  be  soaked  frequently  in  a 
solution  of  soda  water  to  freshen  them.  It  is  also  fo\md  helpful  to  boil 
soda  water  in  the  coffee  pot  about  once  a  week.  Use  3  tablespoons 
soda  in  the  water. 

18.  Cake  making  can  be  simplified  if  preparations  are  made 
before  hand.  Ingredients  should  be  arrange  on  a  tray  before  starting. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  first  into  sheets  of  wax  paper.  Break  egg  whites 
first  into  the  measuring  cup  and  the  small  coating  that  clings  to  cup 
prevents  butter  from  sticking  to  cup. 

19.  To  store  woolen  blankets,  afghans.  etc.,  slip  each  into  pil- 
low case.  Add  a  few  moth  balls  and  a  spoonful  of  black  pepper.  Sew 
up  open  end  and  store  or  hang  up. 

20.  To  strain  drippings  without  a  trace  of  burnt  particles  of 
food  try  this — place  a  paper  napkin  in  a  large  tea  strainer  and  pour 
the  drippings  through.     Drippings  will  be  clear  and  ready  for  use. 

21 .  When  washing  gloves  do  not  squeeze  out  the  water.  Simp- 
ly fill  the  gloves  with  water  (if  not  mesh  or  silk)  and  hang  on  the  line. 
A  surprise  is  in  store  for  anyone  that  tries  this  method,  as  the  gloves 
dry  beautifully  and  look  just  like  new.  No  pressing  whatever  is  re- 
quired.     A  trial  will  convince. 

22.  Buy  a  small  round  bread  board.  Drive  as  many  1  inch 
nails  in  the  board  as  you  have  door  keys.  Enamel  the  nails  and  board 
to  match  room  it  is  to  be  kept  in. 

23.  Waxing  the  breakfast  room  set  will  help  greasy  particles 
of  food  from  sticking  to  it.  Even  children's  greasy  finger  prints  are 
easier  to  remove  if  the  furniture  has  been  waxed. 


Page  87 


24.  Salt  and  pepper  equally  mixed  and  placed  in  a  large  con- 
tainer near  the  stove  is  convenient  and  time  saving.  Sugar  and  cin- 
namon mixed  in  a  sugar  container  saves  steps  and  time  in  making 
cinnamon  toast. 

25.  Always  reserve  water  that  rice  or  macaroni  has  been 
boiled  in  and  use  to  starch  oi-gandy  and  linens. 

26.  Cold  baked  potatoes  can  be  rebaked  by  dipping  in  hot 
milk  or  greasing  thoroughly  and  then  baking  in  a  moder.-^.te  ovei\ 
about  15  minutes.     Makes  them  taste  as  good  as  when  first  baked. 

27.  A  little  salt  or  soda  on  the  dish  rag  will  help  loosen  up 
stains  on  dishes.      A  trial  wiU  convince. 

28.  Use  a  cocktail  fork  to  remove  seeds  from  gi'apefruit.  This 
helps  to  keep  the  juice  from  oozing  out. 

29.  Minced  olives  and  chopped  pecans  added  to  potato  cakes 
will  give  added  flavor  and  zest,  turning  a  plain  dish  into  a  festive  one. 

30.  When  baking  berry  pies  brush  the  unbaked  crust  with 
beaten  egg  white.      The  crust  will  not  absorb  the  juices  and  be  soggy. 

31.  Discarded  slip  covers  make  lovely  kitchen  towels. 

32.  If  a  tasty  brown  crust  is  wanted  on  biscuits  or  breads,  do 
this — brush  with  evaporated  milk  and  then  sprinkle  sparingly  with 
salt. 

33.  When  celery  is  expensive  utilize  all  tender  leaves.  These 
are  washed,  patted  dry  between  towels,  then  placed  in  a  warm  oven 
until  dry.  Parsley,  thyme  and  mint  is  dried  the  same  way.  These 
are  then  packed  in  jars  and  used  as  needed. 

34.  Leather  bags  should  be  washed  with  lukewarm  water  and 
milk  soap,  then  wiped  off  and  polished  with  a  rag  moistened  slightly 
with  liquid  wax. 

35.  White  and  sweet  potatoes  will  bake  better  and  require  a 
shorter  baking  period  if  a  pan  of  water  is  placed  in  the  oven.  A  pan 
of  water  in  the  oven  will  also  prevent  cakes  and  food  from  burning 
or  sticking. 

36.  Do  not  discard -tiny  pieces  of  cheese,  ham,  chicken  or 
meats.  Mince  them  fine  and  season  sauces  or  gravies  with  them. 
They  may  also  be  dipped  into  fritter  batter  and  fried,  then  the  family 
wiH  have  a  treat  of  mixed  fritters. 

37.  When  out  of  wax  for  the  linoleum  use  leftover  starch  from 
the  week's  wash.  Makes  the  floor  lovely  and  prevents  sticky  foods 
from  hardening  on  the  kitchen  and  dining  room  linoleum. 


Page  88 


Join  the  Christmas  Saving  Club  .  .  . 

at  one  of  the  following  banks 


♦  COMMERCIAL  BANK 

♦  FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK 

♦  GREENVILLE  BANK  &  TRUST  CO. 


The  Finest  of  Recipes 

are  printed  in  this  book  .  . 


°'   .  ..^k 


The  Finest  of  .a 


Are,  as  Always, 


To  be  Found 

in  the  Delta 

at 


Nelms  S  Blum 

Greenville,  Mississippi 


PUBLISHED   BY 

ESTES  OFFICE  SUPPLIES 
GREENVILLE,    MISSISSIPPI 


RETURN 
TO  — ► 


MARIAN  KOSHLAND  BIOSCIENCE  AND 
NATURAL  RESOURCE  LIBRARY 

2101  Valley  Life  Sciences  BIdg.    642-2531 


LOAN  PERIOD 

7  DAYS 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS. 


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW. 


^tH*^ 


A^^  u  0  ?on 


l^UDjrcTTORri-rAtt 


FORM  NO.  DD  8 
24M    4-00 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
Berkeley,  California  94720-6500 


