Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


Schlesinger  Library 
Radcliffe  College 


Purchased  with  funds 

contributed  by  the 

Radcliffe  Culinary  Friends 


f 


THE 


DIXIE  COOK-BOOK 


CABBPCLI.Y  COMPILED 


FROM  THE  TREASURED  FAMILY  COLLECTIONS  OF  MANY  GEN- 
ERATIONS OF  NOTED  HOCSEKEEPERS:    LARGELY  SUPPLE- 
MENTED  BY  TF-'^TED    RECIPES  OF  THE   MORE  MODERN 
SOUTHERN  I  LSHES,  CONTRIBUTED  BY  WELL-KNOWN 
LADIES  OF  THE  SOUTH. 


t    ■ 


*•  The  best  is  none  too  good,*' 


IBYISBS  XDITZOir. 


ATLANTA,   UA.: 

I*  A.  CLARKSON  &  COMPANY. 

1885 


I 


( 


PUBLISHERS'  NOTICE. 


\  In  attemptLag  to  plan  a  thoroughly  practical  work  on  Hoiuekeeplng  and  kindred 

f  ^  BubjectB  that  would  meet  the  real  needs  of  the  Southern  matrons  of  to-day,  the  well* 

known  "Practical  Housekeeping"  (which  in  its  wide  dissemination  East  and  Wesl,  North 
and  South,  has  reached  a  sale  of  190,000  copies)  came  under  our  notice.  Its  contributions 
from  all  States  of  the  Union  hare  made  it  cosmopolitan  In  character,  and,  being  un- 
doubtedly the  best  cook-book  for  general  use  In  print,  it  seemed  a  fitting  basis  for  our 
"  Dixie  Cook-Book ; "  therefore,  with  the  consent  of  its  Publishers,  we  have  made  it  this^ 
combining  with  the  *'  cream  "  of  that  excellent  manual  a  large  collection  of  additional 
recipe»-<!hoice  treasures  from  the  gamers  of  many  a  Boutiiem  household,  handed 
down  from  generation  to  generation,  besides  many  other  recipes,  contributed  by  the 
V  ladies  of  the  South,  for  the  more  modem  Southern  dishes.    Earnestly  trusting  the 

Yolume  will  meet  the  demand  it  is  intended  to  supply  of  a  reliable  and  complete 
manual  for  the  housekeeper,  we  submit  it  to  the  public. 


-. .  ■] 


Oopyzlglit,  1883,  by  A.  O.  WnooXi 


i^^ 


To 

flothn»  Htm,  aad  DanglUxs  of  tlw  'funqy  tott," 

VHD   HAYE  to  BRATELT  FACED   THE    PtfFlOUM'AEB  WHICH    NEW  SOCIAL   CONDXIIOIIE 
HAVE  IMP08BD  ON  THEH  AS  MmTBBMBB  OF  80UTHEBN  HOXE^ 
AND  ON  WHOSE  COVEAGE  AND  FXDELITT  IN 
QOOD  OE  nX  FOBTUNE  THE  FUTUEE  OF  IHBIB  BELOVED  LAND  KT78T  DEPEND^ 

THIS  BOOK  IS  DEDICATED. 


TABLE   OF  CJONTENTa 


xfEBAD-MAKINO 7-68 

Cakb-makino • 6^101 

Creams  and  Cubtabds 102-112 

Confectionery 113-118 

Canning  Fruits. • 119-127 

Catsups  and  Sauces. 128-186 

Drinks 137-144 

BOGA 14&150 

Fish 151-158 

Fruits 159-166 

Game 167-178 

Ices  and  Igb-greax 174-180 

Jellies  and  Jams 181-189 

Meats 190-209 

Pastry  ■•■•■••■•••  210-224 

Puddings  and  Sauces    .1 I      I      I      I      !      .*  225-242 

Preserves 248-258 

Pickles 254-27a 

Poultry 271-286 

Baladh 287-294 

gHELL-nSH 295-308 

Soups •      .      .      .      .  804-819 

Vegetables •••••••.  820-345 

Ornamental  Icing,  Illustrated 846-378 

Bills  op  Fare  for  every  day  in  tbb  TBAB 87^-406 

Fragments • •••  406-m6 

Blanks  for  additional  Recipes •••••  416^17 

CoqK's  Time-Table 417 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures      .•••••••••       418 

When  Food  is  in  Season       ..••••••••••  419^20 

Comparative  Value  op  Fuel       •••••••••••       421 

housekrepino •••••      •422-444 

Dining-room •••••  415.458 

Kitchen •••••  459  476 

Kitchen  Luxuries,  Illustrated 477-491 

Household  Conveniences,  iLLUsntATH)  .       ..••••••  492-498 

Management  op  Help ••..  499-501 

Marketing  ..'.....'.••••.•••.  502-^10 

Carving,  Illustrated 511-512 

ilow  to  Cut  and  Curb  Meats,  Illdrbath) 5l3-.'ii8 

Hints  on  BinrER-MAKiNQ •      •      .      .  5l9-5i?0 

Laundry 521-5:i5 

Cellar  and  Ice-house .•••••..  536-MO 

Something  a^out  Babies •••.  54l-;)55 

Hints  for  the  Well •••••••.  f>56-5r»i 

Hiv^  for  the  Sick-room •••.•.  5()2->')73 

Thb  Arts  of  the  Toilet ••• 5T4-:m 

accidents  and  Sudden  Sicxkeh 5R2-588 

PiX)RAL '.  689-591 

Chkmiktry  of  Food ••••••.  592-597 

Drbbs-making  at  Home ••••••••  508-(>19 

Coix)RiNO  AND  Bleaching ••••••.  620-6*^8 

Medical ••••••*...  629-660 

Miscellaneous •••••••••.  60i-f>72 

Alphabetical  Index.       .••••••• e7:i-ii87 


PEEFAOE. 


''In  a  multitude  of  counsel''  is  said  to  be  wisdom.  If  this  be 
true  of  any  thing,  it  certainly  is  of  cookery.  The  present  candi- 
date for  favor  has  not  been  made  up  with  the  aid  of  the  paste-pot 
and  scissors,  neither  has  it  been  gathered  at  random  from  doubt- 
ful sources,  but  has  been  culled,  without  stint  of  labor,  time  or 
expense,  from  the  treasure-troves  of  hundreds  of  the  grand  old 
housekeepers  of  our  land  who  have  practically  tested  what  is  now 
given  to  others.  A  recipe  is  only  valuable  firom  being  tried  and 
approved.  Blunders  iii  cookery  cost  money,  and  it  is  a  self-evident 
fact  that  a  few  spoiled  dishes  represent  the  price  of  a  good  cook- 
book,— ^to  say  nothing  of  the  vexation  and  chagrin,  inevitable  to 
the  conscientious  housekeeper,  resulting  from  any  culmary  failure. 

The  "cook-books"  and  "receipt-books"  of  the  past  few  years 
have  numbered  legion;  "of  making  them  there  has  seemed  no 
end ;"  yet  too  often  their  study  and  practice  have  proven  **a  wea- 
riness to  the  flesh,"  for  while  some  of  their  authors  were  good 
book-makers,  they  were  poor  bread-makers;  others,  though  per- 
fectly &imiliar  with  the  subjects  treated  of,  yet  &iled  to  clearly 
and  fully  describe  the  processes  in  detail.  A  few  lines  of  recipes, 
unattended  by  any  practical  instructions  or  suggestions,  may  prove 
of  little  utility  to  the  mass  of  cooks,  since  to  give  a  recipe  that 
can  be  intelligibly  understood  by  all  b  by  no  means  an  easy  task. 

The  lack  of  ordinary  dishes,  or  those  suited  to  the  life  of  the 
great  middle  daas,  has  been  another  realized  want.  Fortunately 
it  is  becoming  fashionable  to  economize,  and  housekeepers  are 
really  finding  a  pleasure  and  satisfaction  in  searching  out  and  seek« 
ing  to  stop  the  numberless  household  leaks,  and  to  exercise  the 
thousand  little  economies  which  thoughtful  and  careful  women  un- 
derstand so  well  and  practice  so  gracefully. 

Some  one  has  assorted  that  a  well-to-do  French  iamily  will  live 
on  what  an  American  household  in  the  same  condition  of  life  throws 
away.     Possibly  this  may  not  be  a  very  great  exaggeration,  and 


▼i  PREFACE, 

we  may  learn  the  fine  art  of  spending  money  wisely,  perhaps,  as 
well  as  that  of  dress,  from  our  neighbors  across  the  water.  It  is 
a  satis&ction  to  those  housekeepers  whose  purses  are  not  over- 
plethoric  to  realize  that  good  cooking  is  not  necessarily  the  most 
costly;  and  surely  she  is  an  artist  in  culinary  skill  who  can  com- 
pound a  good  and  palatable  dish  from  a  limited  larder. 

While  the  present  volume  contains  recipes  suited  to  all  grades 
and  styles  of  living,  its  one  aim  has  been  to  pack  between  its  covers 
the  largest  possible  amount  of  practical  information  of  real  value 
to  all ;  and  it  is  believed  the  recipes  will  be  found  to  be  not  only 
practical,  but  really  excellent,  yet  not  tending  to  extravagance. 

The  instructions  preceding  each  department  have  been  carefully 
given,  and  will  be  foimd  entirely  trustworthy;  the  recipes  are  all 
well  indorsed. 

The  suggestive  chapters  in  the  latter  parf  of  the  book  cover  a 
wide  range  of  household  subjects,  and  will  prove  of  equal  interest 
with  the  cookery  department  to  the  earnest  housekeeper  who  readily 
seizes  upon  all  timely  hints  and  suggestions  that  may  tend  to  simplify 
and  systematize  the  labor  of  housekeeping  and  home-making  or  in 
any  way  help  to  lessen  the  friction  of  the  domestic  machinery. 

There  has  been  no  effort  at  display,  the  only  purpose  being  to 
express  ideas  as  clearly  and  concisely  as  possible,  and  to  make  a 
simple  and  practical  work  to  meet  the  needs  of  earnest  housekeep- 
ers of  all  classes. 

The  arrangement  of  subjects  treated  has  been  made  on  the  sim- 
ple order  of  the  alphabet  so  far  as  practicable,  and  for  more  ready 
reference  a  full  alphabetical  index  has  been  added — a  matter  that 
will  be  appreciated  by  those  whose  time  is  of  value. 

It  is  a  woman's  book,  compiled  and  sold  by  women,  and  in  the 
interest  of  women,  and  will,  it  is  believed,  be  fully  appreciated  by 
all  earnest  women. 

Possibly,  in  the  effort  to  avoid  the  mistakes  of  otners,  greater 
errors  may  have  been  committed ;  but  the  book  is  submitted  just 
as  it  is  to  the  generous  judgment  and  intelligent  consideration  of 
Southern  housekeepers,  with  the  hope  that  it  may  in  some  degree 
lessen  their  perplexities  and  aid  them  in  their  successful  and  happy 
reign  in  "Woman's  Kingdom" — the  Home. 


/ 


BREAD-MAKING. 


The  old  saying,  '*  bread  b  the  staff  of  life/'  has  sound  reason  in 
it  Flour  made  from  wheat,  and  meal  from  oats  and  Indian  corn, 
are  rich  in  the  waste-repairing  elements,  starch  and  albumen,  and 
head  the  list  of  articles  of  food  for  man.  Good  bread  makes  the 
homeliest  meal  acceptable,  and  the  coarsest  fare  appetizing,  while 
the  most  luxurious  table  is  not  even  tolerable  without  it.  Light, 
crisp  rolls  for  breakfast,  spongy,  sweet  bread  for  dinner,  and  flaky 
biscuit  for  supper,  cover  a  multitude  of  culinary  sins ;  and  there  is 
no  one  thing  on  which  the  health  and  comfoi*t  of  a  family  so  much 
depends  as  the  quality  of  its  home-made  loaves. 

Opinions  as  to  what  constitutes  good  bread  differ,  perhaps,  as 
much  as  t&sles  and  opinions  concerning  any  thing  else,  but  all  will 
agree  that  bread,  to  be  go#i,  ought  to  be  light,  sweet — that  is,  free 
from  any  perceptible  acid  or  yeasty  taste— flaky,  granular  or  not 
liable  to  become  a  doughy  mass,  and  as  white  as  the  grade  of  flour 
used  will  allow.  If  members  of  the  family  have  delicate  digestive 
powers,  they  will  not  use  new  bread,  and  therefore  must  have  such 
as  will  keep  with  little  change  of  texture  and  none  of  quality  or 
taste,  for  several  days.  To  obtain  these  qualities  in  bread,  use  the 
be^t  flour,  as  in  families  where  no  bread  is  wasted,  the  best  is  cheap 
est.  The  good  old  Genesee  Valley  white  winter  wheat,  of  Western 
New  York,  makes  a  flour  unsurpassed  in  quality.  The  Michigan, 
Ohio,  Indiana  and  Missouri  white  winter  wheat  grades  are  much 
the  same,  but  the  Minnesota  hard  spring  wheat  '^  new  process** 
flour  is  the  equal  of  the  best,  and  is  so  much  superior  in  strength 
that  one-eighth  less  is  used  in  all  recipes  for  bread  and  ca,ke.  The 
common  or  ** straight"  brands  are  used  by  the  great  majority  of 
families,  and  from  all  of  them  good,  uniform  and  palatable  bread 
may  be  made. 


(7> 


8  BREAD-MAKING. 

HouBekeepers  seldom  select  flour  by  examination.  Tliey  usually 
take  some  tried  brand,  or  select  on  the  recommendation  of  their  fur- 
nisher. No  rule  can  be  given  by  which  an  inexperienced  person  can 
determine  the  grade* of  flour  with  accuracy,  but  a  few  hints  will 
enable  any  one  to  know  what  not  to  buy.  Good  flour  adheres  to 
the  hand,  and,  when  pressed,  shows  the  imprint  of  the  lines  of  the 
skin.  Its  tint  is  cream  white.  Never  buy  that  which  has  a  blue- 
white  tinge.  Poor  flour  is  not  adhesive,  may  be  blown  about  easily, 
and  sometimes  has  a  dingy  look,  as  though  mixed  with  ashes. 

Flour  should  be  bought  in  quantities  corresponding  to  the  num- 
ber in  the  family,  that  it  may  not  become  damaged  by  long  keeping. 
In  a  family  of  five,  a  barrel,  or  even  a  half-barrel  sack  of  flour, 
excellent  when  first  bought,  will  become  much  deteriorated  before 
being  used  up.  A  small  family  should  always  buy  in  twenty-five 
pound,  or  at  largest,  fifty  pound  sacks.  Flour  should  be  kept  dry, 
cool  and  entirely  l)eyond  the  reach  of  marauders,  big  or  little, 
especially  the  latter,  for  the  infinitesimal  meal  moth  is  &r  more  to 
be  dreaded  than  rats  or  mice.  Therefore  every  receptacle  of  flour 
should  be  thoroughly  and  frequently  cleansed,  to  guard  against  ani- 
mal as  well  as  vegetable  parasites.  A  single  speck  of  mold,  coming 
from  old  or  damp  flour  in  an  obscure  cft-ner  of  the  flour-box,  will 
leaven  the  whole  as  rapidly  and  strongly  as  ten  times  its  weight  in 
yeast.     In  no  event  should  flour  be  used  without  being  sifted. 

Bread-making  seems  a  simple  process  enough,  but  it  requires  a 
delicate  care  and  watcafulness,  and  a  thorough  knowledge  of  all 
the  contingencies  of  tl  e  process,  dependent  on  the  different  qualities 
of  flour,  and  the  varying  kinds  and  conditions  of  yeast,  and  the 
change  of  seasons ;  the  process  which  raises  bread  successfully  in 
winter  making  it  sour  in  summer.  There  are  many  little  things  in 
bread-making  which  require  accurate  observation,  and,  while  valu- 
able recipes  and  well-defined  methods  in  detail  are.  in  valuable  aids, 
nothing  but  experience  will  secure  the  name  merited  by  so  few, 
though  earnestly  coveted  by  every  practical,  sensible  housekeeper — 
"an  excellent  bread-maker."  Three  things  are  indispensable  to 
success:  good  flour,  good  yeast,  and  watchful  care.  Never  use 
flour  withodt  sifting  ;  and  a  large  tin  or  wooden  pail  with  a  tight- 
fitting  cover,  kept  full  of  sifted  flour,  will  be  found  a  great  conven- 


BREAD-MAKING.  9 

fence.    All  kinds  of  flour  and  meal,  except  buckwheat  and  Graham — 

and  Graham,  too,  when  coarse — ^need  sifting,  and  all,  like  wheat 

flour,  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  as  they  become  damp 

and  musty  by  long  standing. 

The  Yeast. 

After  the  flour,  the  yeast  or  leaven  is  the  next  essential  element 

in  bread.     For  regular  fare  most,  especially  women,  prefer  "yeast 

bread,"  but  men  who  can  not  forget  **  how  their  mother  used  to 

cook,"  have  a  liking  for  "salt-rising"  bread,  and  the  latter  deserves 

the  acquaintance  of  the  housekeeper  and  a  :&equent  welcome  on 

the  family  table.     The  dry  hop  yeast,  such  as  Twin  Bros. ,  Stratton's, 

National,  Eagle,  Gillett's,  and  many  others,  are  all  good,  if  iresh, 

and  always  available,  for  they  are  found  in  every  grocery.     Many 

housekeepers  use  baker's  yeast,  and  buy  for  a  penny  or  two  what 

will  serve  each  baking  of  bread.     Potato  yeast  has  two  advantages 

over  other  kinds ;  bread  made  from  it  keeps  moist  longer,  and  there 

is  no  danger  that  an  excess  of  yeast  will  injure  the  flavor  of  the 

bread. 

The  Sponge. 

This  is  made  from  warm  water  or  milk,  yeast  and  flour  (some  add 
mashed  potatoes)  mixed  tqpether  in  the  proportion  of  one  pint  wet- 
ting (water  or  milk)  to  two  pints  of  sifted  flour.  If  milk  is  used 
it  should  be  new,  and  must  be  first  scalded,  and  then  cooled  to  blood 
neat.  The  scaiaing  lenas  lo  prevent  souring,  xii  uvixig  waier  onng 
it  to  blood  heat.  If  the  **  wetting"  is  too  hot,  the  bread  will  be 
coarse.  When  water  is  used  a  tablespoon*  of  lard  or  butter  makes 
the  bread  more  tender.  Bread  made  from  milk  is,  of  course,  more 
tender  and  nutritious,  but  it  has  not  the  sweet  taste  of  the  wheat, 
and  will  not  keep  as  long  as  that  made  from  water.  When  mixed 
with  milk  it  requires  less  flour  and  less  kneading.  In  summer,  care 
must  be  taken  not  to  set  sponge  too  early,  at  least  not  before  eight 
or  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening.  (Sponge  mixed  with  bran  water, 
warm  in  whiter  and  cold  in  summer,  makes  sweeter  bread.  Boil 
bran  in  the  proportion  of  one  pint  to  a  quart  of  water  and  strain.) 
In  very  hot  weather,  sponge  may  be  made  with  cold  water.  Is 
winter,  mix  the  batter  with  water  or  milk,  at  blood  warmth,  testing 

*  Whenever,  in  this  book,  the  words  cupflil,  coffbe-cupftil,  ten-cupfUl,  table-epoonftil,  ete« 
r,  the  termination  **  Ail "  la  dropped,  for  the  sake  of  brevity. 


10  BREAD-MAKINO, 

it  with  the  finger,  and  making  it  as  warm  as  can  be  borne ;  stir  in 
the  flour,  which  will  cool  It  sufficiently  for  the  yeast ;  cover  closely 
and  place  in  a  warm  and  even  temperature.  A  good  plan  is  to  fold 
a  clean  blanket  several  times,  and  cover  with  it,  providing  the 
sponge  is  set  in  a  very  large  crock  or  jar,  so  that  there  is  no  danger 
of  its  running  over.  As  a  general  rule,  one  small  tea-cup  of  yeast 
and  three  pints  of  "wetting"  will  make  sponge  enough  for  four 
ordinary  loaves.  In  all  sponges  add  the  yeast  last,  making  sure  that 
the  sponge  is  not  hot  enough  to  scald  it;  when  placed  to  rise, 
always  cover  closely.  In  cold  weather  the  temperature  runs  down  very 
quickly,  in  many  kitchens,  after  the  fire  is  out,  and  the  bread  should 
be  set  earlier  in  the  evening,  and  in  a  warmer  place;  a  temperature 
of  eighty  or  ninety  degrees  is  right.  When  it  rises  well  for  the  first 
two  hours,  it  will  go  on  rising  unless  the  temperature  falls  below  the 
freezing  point.  It  is  an  improvement  to  beat  the  sponge  thoroughly, 
like  batter  for  a  cake,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Never  set  sponge  in  tin, 
but  always  in  stoneware,  because  a  more  steady  and  uniform  heat 
can  be  maintained  in  a  stone  jar  than  in  tin. 

TO  MAKE  GOOD  BREAD, 

Always  be 

"  Up  in  Uie  morning  early,  just  atThe  peep  of  day," 

in  summer  time,  to  prevent  the  sponge  becoming  sour  by  too  long 
standing,  and  in  winter  to  be  getting  materials  warmed  and  in  readi- 
ness for  use.  A  large,  seamless  tin  dish-pan  with  handles  and  a 
tight-fitting  cover,  kept  for  this  purpose  alone,  is  better  than  a 
wooden  bowl  for  bread.  It  should  be  thoroughly  washed  and 
scalded  every  time  it  is  used.  Measure  and  siit  the  flour.  It  is 
convenient  to  keep  two  quart  cups,  one  for  dry  and  the  other  for 
liquid  measuring.  In  winter  always  warm  the  flour  (by  placing  it  in 
a  pan  in  a  vHirm  oven  for  a  few  minutes  or  by  setting  it  over  night 
where  it  will  be  kept  at  the  same  temperature  as  the  sponge)  and  also 
the  sponge.  Put  the  flour  in  a  bread  pan ,  make  a  large  well  in  the  cen- 
ter, into  which  pour  the  sponge,  adding  two  level  tea-spoons  of  salt  (this 
is  the  quantity  for  four  loaves  of  bread)  ;  mix  well,  being  careful  not 
to  get  the  dough  too  stiff;  turn  out  on  the  bread-board,  rub  the  pan 
clean,  and  add  the  "rubbings"  to  the  bread.  Knead  for  from 
forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour,  or  until  the  dough  ceases  to  stick  to 


BREAD-MAKINQ,  11 

either  the  board  or  hands.  Do  not  stop  kneading  until  done.  Any 
pause  in  the  process  injures  the  bread.  The  process  of  kneading  is 
very  important.  Use  just  as  little  flour  in  kneading  as  will  prevent 
sticking,  and  practice  will  enable  one  to  make  a  little  flour  go  a 
great  way.  Some  good  bread-makers  knead  with  the  palm  of  the 
hands  until  the  dough  is  a  flat  cake,  then  fold  once,  repeating  this 
operation  until  the  dough  is  perfectly  smooth  and  elastic ;  others 
zloae  the  hands}  and  press  hard  and  quickly  into  the  dough  with  the 
fists,  dipping  them  into  the  flour  when  the  dough  sticks;  or,  after 
kneading,  chop  with  the  chopping  knife  and  then  knead  again; 
others  still  knead  with  a  potato-masher,  thinking  it  a  great  saving 
of  strength.  Another  method,  used  by  good  bread-makers,  is  to 
raise  the  whole  mass  and  drop  or  dash  it  with  considerable  force  upon 
the  mixing-board  or  table  for  several  minutes.  No  exact  directions 
can  be  given,  but  experience  and  practice  will  prove  the  best  guides. 
After  the  bread  is  thoroughly  kneaded,  form  into  a  round  mass  or 
large  loaf,  sprinkle  the  bread-pan  well  with  flour,  and,  having 
placed  the  loaf  in  it,  sprinkle  flour  lightly  on  the  top  (some  grease 
the  top  with  salted  lard  or  butter  instead  of  sprinkling  with  flour) ; 
cover  closely,  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  temperature ;  let  it  rise  to 
twice  its  original  size  this  time,  say  firom  one  to  two  hours,  difi*ering 
in  time  with  the  season  of  the  year.  Then  knead  down  in  the  pan, 
cut  into  equal  parts,  place  one  at  a  time  on  the  board,  mold  each 
into  a  smootri,  oblong  loaf,  not  too  large,  ana  put  one  arter  anotner 
into  a  well-greased  baking-pan ;  grease  the  tops  of  the  loaves  with 
salted  lard  or  butter,  and  set  to  rise.  Or  the  loaves  may  be  made 
by  buttering  the  hands,  and  taking  enough  from  the  mass  to  form 
a  loaf,  molding  it  into  shape  in  the  hands,  without  using  flour.  This 
insures  a  nice,  brown,  tender  crust  Loaves  made  in  the  French 
style,  long  and  narrow,  are  about  half  crust,  and  more  easily  di- 
gested, the  action  of  heat  antici})atiug  part  of  the  digestive  process. 
In  molding,  do  not  leave  any  lumps  or  loose  flour  adhering  to  the 
outside,  but  mold  until  the  loaves  are  perfectly  Smooth.  No  par- 
ticular directions  can  be  given  in  regard  to  the  time  bread  should 
stand  after  it  is  molded  and  placed  in  the  pans,  because  here  is  uie 
point  where  observation  and  discretion  are  so  indispensable.  In  hot 
weather,  when  the  yeast  is  very  good  and  the  bread  very  light,  it 


12  BREAD-MAKING. 

must  not  stand  over  fifteen  minutes  before  placing  to  bake.  If  it  is 
cold  weather,  and  the  yeast  is  less  active,  or  the  bread  not  perfectly 
raised,  it  may  sometimes  stand  an  hour  in  the  pans  without  injury. 
When  it  is  risen  so  as  to  seam  or  crack,  it  is  ready  for  the  oven ;  if 
it  stands  after  this  it  becomes  sour,  and  even  if  it  does  not  sour  it 
loses  its  freshness  and  sweetness,  and  the  bread  becomes  dry  sooner 
after  baking.  Bread  should  undergo  but  two  fermentations;  the 
saccharine  or  sweet  fermentation,  and  the  vinous,  when  it  smells 
something  like  foaming  beer.  The  housewife  who  would  have  good, 
sweet  bread,  must  never  let  it  pass  this  change,  because  the  third 
or  acetous  fermentation  then  takes  place.  This  last  can  be  remedied 
by  adding  soda  m  the  proportion  of  one  tea-spoon  to  each  quart  of 
wetting ;  or,  which  is  the  same  thing,  a  tea-spoon  to  four  quarts  of 
flour;  but  the  bread  will  be  much  less  nutritious  and  healthful,  and 
some  of  the  best  elements  of  the  flour  will  be  lost.  Always  add 
salt  to  all  bread,  biscuit,  griddle-cakes,  etc.,  but  never  salt  sponge. 
A  small  quantity  of  white  sugar  is  an  improvement  to  all  bread 
dough.  Bread  should  always  be  mixed  as  soft  as  it  can  he  handled^ 
but  in  using  the  "new  process*'  flour,  made  from  spring  wheat,  the 
dough  requires  to  be  much  harder  than  is  necessary  when  using  that 
made  from  winter  wheat 

To  Bake  Bread. 

Here  is  the  important  point,  for  the  bread  may  be  perfect  thus 
far  and  then  be  spoiled  in  baking.  No  definite  rules  can  be  i^ven 
that  apply  equally  well  to  every  stove  and  range ;  but  one  general 
rule  must  be  observed,  which  is,  to  have  a  steady,  moderate  heat, 
such  as  is  more  minutely  described  in  the  directions  for  baking  large 
cakes.  The  oven  must  be  just  hot  enough ;  if  too  hot,  a  firm  crust 
is  formed  before  the  bread  has  expanded  enough,  and  it  will  be 
heavy.  To  test  the  heat,  place  a  teaspoon  of  flour  on  an  old  piece 
of  crockery  (to  secure  an  even  heat),  and  set  in  middle  of  the  oven ; 
if  it  browns  in  one  minute  the  heat  is  right.  An  oven  in  which  the 
bare  hand  and  arm  can  not  be  held  longer  than  to  count  twenty 
moderately,  is  hot  enough.  The  attention  of  stove-makers  seems 
aever  to  have  been  directed  to  the  &ct  that  there  is  no  accurate 
means  of  testing  the  heat  of  ovens,  but  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  in  the 


BREAD-MAKINO.  13 

near  ftiture  some  simple  device  may  be  fbuDd  which  will  render 
mmeoessaiy  such  inaccurate  and  untrustworthy  tests  as  must  now  be 
used,  and  thus  reduce  baking  to  a  science.  To  test  whether  the 
bread  is  done,  break  the  loaves  apart  and  press  gently  with 
the  finger ;  if  elastic  it  is  done,  but  if  clammy,  not  done,  and  must 
be  returned  to  the  oven ;  or,  if  the  loaves  are  single,  test  with  a 
straw  plucked  from  a  broom.  Break  off  the  branches  and  thrust 
the  larger  end  into  the  loaf;  if  it  is  sticky  when  withdrawn,  the 
bread  is  not  done,  but  if  free  from  dough  it  is  ready  to  be  removed 
fi'om  the  oven.  The  little  projections  on  the  straw,  where  the 
branches  have  been  broken  off,  catch  and  bring  out  the  dough, 
when  not  thoroughly  baked. 

The  time  required  for  baking  is  not  less  than  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  and  bread  baked  a  full  hour  is  more  wholesome  and  is  gen- 
erally considered  more  palatable.  ''The  little  fairy  that  hovers 
over  successful  bread-making  is  heat,  not  too  little  nor  too  much, 
but  uniform." 

When  removed  from  the  oven,  take  the  loaves  out  of  the  pan, 
grease  the  entire  outer  crust  with  melted  butter,  and  tilt  them  on 
edge,  so  as  to  secure  a  free  circulation  of  air.  It  is  better  not  to 
cover  bread  while  warm,  unless  with  a  Ught  cloth  to  keep  off  flies. 
Thoroughly  exposed  to  the  air  thR  auvface  cooh  first,  insuring  a  crisp 
crust  and  the  retention  of  the  moisture  in  the  loaf.  There  are 
those,  however,  who  follow  successftilly  the  plan  of  wrapping  the 
bread,  as  soon  as  it  ia  removed  from  the  oveu.  in  a  coarse  towel  or 
bread-cloth.  Never  put  warm  bread  next  to  wood,  as  the  part  in 
contact  will  have  a  bad  taste.  Spread  a  cloth  over  the  table  before 
placing  the  bread  on  it 

Good  bread-makers  differ  widelv  as  to  the  number  of  times  bread 
should  rise,  some  insisting  that  the  rgle  of  our  good  grandmothers, 
who  only  allowed  it  to  rise  once,  insures  the  sweetest  and  most  nutri- 
ttoos  bread,  and  that  in  all  subsequent  fermentations,  a  decomposi- 
tion takes  places  that  is  damaging  to  the  wholesome  qualities  of  the 
"staff  of  life.'* 

If  by  accident  or  neglect  the  bread  is  baked  too  hard,  rub  the 
baf  over  with  butter,  wet  a  towel  and  wrap  it  in  it,  and  cover  with 
another  dry  toweL    In  winter,  bread  dough  may  be  kept  sweet 


14  BREAD-MAKUIQ. 

wveral  days  by  placing  it  where  it  will  be  eold  without  freezings  or 
by  putting  it  so  deep  into  the  flour  barrel  as  to  exclude  it  entirely 
firom  the  air.  When  wanted  for  use,  make  into  bread,  or,  by  add- 
ing the  proper  ingredients,  into  cake,  rusk,  biscuit,  apple  dump- 
lings, chicken  pie,  etc. 

When  the  bread  u  eold,  place  in  a  stone  jar  or  tin  box,  which 
must  be  thoroughly  washed,  scalded  and  dried  each  baking  day.  A 
still  better  receptacle  for  bread  is  a  tin  wash-boiler  with  a  close 
cover,  kept  for  this  pur|)ose  alone.  When  smaU,  single  loaf  pans 
are  used,  the  bread  nmy  be  removed  to  cool,  the  pans  washed  and 
dried,  and  the  loaves  afterwards  replaced  each  in  its  pan,  and  then 
set  away  in  a  box  or  boiler.  The  pan  helps  to  keep  the  bread 
moist  and  palatable  for  several  days. 

The  best  pan  for  bread  is  made  of  Russia  iron  (which  is  but  little 
more  costly  than  tin  and  will  last  many  times  as  long),  about  four 
by  ten  inches  on  the  bottom,  flaring  to  the  top,  and  about  four  and 
one-half  inches  deep.  The  pan  should  be  greased  very  lightly  for 
bread. 

Attention  to  neatness,  important  in  all  cookery,  is  doubly  im- 
portant in  bread-making.  Be  sure  that  the  hair  is  neatiy  combed 
and  put  up  (which  ought  to  be  done  before  the  dress  is  put  on 
every  morning),  and  that  the  hands,  arms  and  finger-nails  are 
scrupulously  clean.  A  neat  calico  apron  with  bib,  and  sleeves  of 
dress  well-tucked  up  and  lastened  so  that  they  wQl  not  come  down, 
add  much  to  the  comfort  of  this  the  most  important  task  of  the 
kitchen  queen. 

There  are  three  critical  points  in  the  process  of  bread-making : 
the  condition  of  the  yeast,  which  must  never  be  used  if  sour ;  the 
temperature  where  the  bread  b  set  to  rise,  which  must  not  be  so  hot 
as  to  scald ;  and  the  temperature  of  the  oven,  which  must  be  uni- 
form, neither  too  hot  nor  too  cold. 

In  cutting  warm  bread  for  the  table,  heat  the  knife,  and,  whether 
hot  or  cold,  cut  only  as  much  as  will  be  eaten.  It  is  better  to 
replenish  the  bread-plate  once  or  even  twice  during  a  meal  than  to 
have  slices  left  over  to  dry  up  and  waste. 

When  using  coal,  put  into  the  fire-box  enough  to  finish  the  baking; 
adding  more   during   the  process  is  apt  to  render  the  oven-heat 


BREAD-MAKING.  16 

irregalar.  When  wood  is  used,  make  a  good  hoi  fire,  see  that  the 
stove  has  a  good,  free  draft,  and  let  it  cool  to  an  even,  steady  heat 
before  putting  the  bread  in  the  oven.  The  finest  bread  may  be  com- 
pletely spoiled  in  baking,  and  a  freshly-made  fire  can  not  be  easily 
l^ulated. 

The  patent  iron  shelves,  made  to  be  attached  to  the  pipes  of 
stoves  and  ranges,  are  very  convenient  places  for  placing  bread  to 
lise.  They  give  the  necessary  warmth,  and  the  height  is  conven- 
ient for  watching. 

The  proportion  of  gluten  in  wheat,  and  consequently  in  flour, 
varies  greatly  in  different  varieties.  Flour  in  which  gluten  is 
abundant  will  absorb  much  more  liquid  than  that  which  contains  a 
greater  proportion  of  starch,  and  consequently  is  stronger ;  that  is, 
will  make  more  bread  to  a  given  quantity.  Gluten  is  a  flesh-former, 
and  starch  a  heat-giver,  in  the  nutritive  processes  of  the  body. 
Flour  containing  a  good  proportion  of  gluten  remains  a  compact 
mass  when  compressed  in  the  hand,  while  starchy  flour  crumbles 
and  lacks  adhesive  properties.  Neither  gluten  or  starch  dissolve 
m  cold  water.  The  gluten  is  a  grayish,  tough,  elastic  substance. 
In  yeast-bread,  the  yeast,  in  fermenting,  combines  with  the  sugar  in 
the  flour  and  the  sugar  which  has  been  added  to  the  flour,  and  car- 
bonic acid  gas  and  alcohol  are  produced.  The  gas  tries  to  escape, 
but  is  confined  by  the  elastic,  strong  gluten  which  forms  the  walls 
of  the  cells  in  which  it  is  held,  its  expansion  changing  the  solid 
dough  into  a  light,  spongy  mass.  The  kneading  process  distributes 
die  yeast  thoroughly  through  the  bread,  making  the  grain  even. 
The  water  used  in  mixing  the  bread  softens  the  gluten,  and  cements 
all  the  particles  of  flour  together,  ready  for  the  action  of  the  car- 
bonic acid  gas.  In  baking,  the  loaf  grows  larger  as  the  heat  ex- 
pands the  carbonic  acid  gas,  and  converts  the  water  into  steam  and 
the  alcohol  into  vapor,  but  it,  meantime,  loses  one-sixth  of  its  weight 
by  the  escape  of  these  through  the  pores  of  the  bread.  Some  of  the 
starch  changes  into  gum,  the  cells  of  the  rest  are  broken  by  the 
heat,  the  gluten  is  softened  and  made  tender,  and  the  bread  is  in 
the  condition  most  easily  acted  upon  by  the  digestive  fluids. 

There  is  a  great  difierence  of  opinion  as  to  the  comparative  mer- 
its of  bread  made  from  fine  flour,  and  Graham,  or  whole  wheat 


16  BREAD-MAKII^Q. 

flour.  The  latter  is  undoubtedly  best  for  persons  who  lead  seden- 
tary lives,  as  the  coarse  particles  stimulate  the  digestive  organs, 
causing  the  fluids  to  flow  more  freely ;  while  for  those  who  follow 
active,  out-of-door  pursuits,  the  fine  flour  bread  is  probably  best,  as 
being  more  nutritious  and  economical,  because  wholly  digested. 

Th;ere  is  an  old  and  true  saying,  that  '*  she  who  has  baked  a  good 
batch  of  bread  has  done  a  good  days  work."  Bread-making  should 
stand  at  the  head  of  domestic  accomplishments,  since  the  health 
and  happiness  of  the  family  depends  immeasurably  upon  good 
bread ;  and  there  is  certain  to  come  a  time  in  the  experience  of 
every  true,  thoughtful  woman  when  she  is  glad  and  proud  of  her 
ability  to  make  nice,  sweet  loaves,  firee  from  soda,  alum,  and  other 
injurious  ingredients,  or  bitter  regret  that  she  neglected  to  learn, 
or  was  so  unfortunate  as  not  to  have  been  taught,  at  least  the  first 
requisites  of  good  bread-making. 

Graham  and  Cobn  Bread. 

It  is  very  desirable  that  every  &mily  should  have  a  constant 
supply  of  bread  made  of  unbolted  flour,  or  rye  and  Indian  com. 
Most  persons  find  it  palatable,  and  it  promotes  health.  For  these 
coarse  breads,  always  add  a  little  brown  sugar  or  molasses,  and  the 
amount  given  in  the  recipes  may  be  increased  according  to  taste. 
They  rise  quicker  and  in  a  less  warm  atmosphere  than  without 
sweetening.  A  little  lard  or  butter  improves  bread  or  ca&es  made 
of  Graham  or  Indian  meal,  rendering  them  light  and  tender. 
Graham  rises  rather  more  quickly  than  fine  flour  (as  the  whole 
wheat  flour  contains  a  larger  proportion  of  gluten,  and  fermentation 
is  more  rapid),  and  should  not  be  allowed  to  rise  quite  as  light. 
The  pans  should  be  greased  more  thoroughly  for  Graham  and  com 
bread  than  for  that  made  from  fine  flour.  The  fire  should  be  steady 
and  sufficient  to  complete  the  baking,  and  the  oven  hot  when  the 
bread  is  put  in.  A  fresh  blaze  wiU  bum  the  crust,  while  a  steady 
fire  will  sweeten  it.  Graham  bread  bakes  more  slowly  than  fine- 
flour  bread,  and  com  bread  requires  mo(e  time  and  a  hotter  oven 
than  either.  Use  either  yellow  or  white  corn,  ground  coarse,  for 
mush,  and  white,  ground  fine,  for  bread,  etc.  In  cutting  the  latter 
while  warm,  heat  the  knife,  and  hold  it  perpendicularly.     Rye  is 


BBEAD'MAKINQ.  17 

said   to  absorb  more  moisture  from  the  air  than  any  other  grain; 

henoe,  all  bread  from  this  meal  needs  a  longer  application  of  heat, 

and   keeps  moister  after  being  baked  than  that  made  from  other 

grain. 

Sponge  for  Winter  Use. 

Peel  and  boil  four  or  five  medium-sized  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of 
water  (which  wiU  boil  down  to  one  quart  by  thet  ime  the  potatoes 
are  cooked) :  when  done,  take  out  and  press  through  a  colander,  or 
mash  very  fine  in  the  crock  in  which  the  sponge  is  to  be  made; 
make  a  well  in  the  center,  into  which  put  one  cup  of  flour,  and  pour 
over  tt  the  boiling  water  from  the  potatoes;  stir  thoroughly,  and 
when  cool  add  a  pint  of  tepid  water,  flour  enough  to  make  a  Mn 
batter,  and  a  cup  of  yeast    This  sponge  makes  very  moist  bread. 

Bread  Sponge. 

Six  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  while  hot,  two  table-spoons  of 
white  sugar,  two  of  butter,  one  quart  tepid  water;  into  this  stir 
three  cups  flour;  beat  to  a  smooth  batter,  add  six  table-spoons 
yeast ;  set  over  night,  and,  in  the  morning,  knead  in  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a  stifi*,  spongy  dough ;  knead  vigorously  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, set  away  to  rise,  and,  when  light,  knead  for  ten  minutes;  mold 
out  into  moderate^ized  loaves,  and  let  rise  until  they  are  like  deli- 
cate or  light  sponge-cake. — Mrs.  Oeorge  H.  Ruet 

Bread  Sponge  and  Bread. 

Five  pints  warm  water,  five  quarts  sifted  flour,  one  cofleC'Cup 
yeast ;  mix  in  a  two-gallon  stone  jar,  cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  large 
tin  pan,  so  that  if  the  sponge  rises  over  the  top  of  the  jar,  the 
drippings  may  fall  into  the  pan.  Set  to  rise  the  evening  before 
baking.  In  winter  be  careful  to  set  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morn* 
ing  sift  six  quarts  flour  into  a  pail,  pour  the  sponge  into  a  bread« 
pen  or  bowl,  add  two  table-spoons  of  salt,  then  the  flour  gradually ; 
mix  and  knead  well,  using  up  nearly  all  the  flour.  This  first 
kneading  is  the  most  important,  and  should  occupy  at  least  twenty 
minutes.  Make  the  bread  in  one  large  loaf,  set  away  in  a  warm 
place,  and  cover  with  a  cloth.  It  ought  to  rise  in  half  an  hour, 
when  it  should  be  kneaded  thoroughly  again  for  ten  minutes.  Then 


Ai 


18  BREAD-MAKINQ. 

take  enough  dough  for  three  good-sized  loaves  (a  quart  bowl  of  dough 
to  each),  give  five  minutes  kneading  to  eiich  loaf,  and  place  to  rise 
in  a  dripping-pan  well  greased  with  lard.  The  loaves  will  be  light 
in  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  wUl  bake  in  a  properly  heated  oven  in 
half  an  hour.  Make  a  well  in  the  center  of  the  remaining  dough, 
and  into  it  put  a  half  tea-cup  of  white  sugar,  one  tea-cup  of  lard, 
and  two  eggs,  which  mix  thoroughly  with  the  dough,  knead  into 
one  large  loaf,  set  in  a  warm  place  about  fifteen  minutes  to  rise,  and, 
when  light,  knead  five  minutes  and  let  rise  again  for  about  ten 
minutes,  when  it  should  be  light.  Take  out  of  pan,  and  knead  on 
bread-board,  roll  about  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  out  with  a  biscuit* 
cutter,  and  place  in  dripping-pan ;  let  rise  five  minutes  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  In  winter  more  time  must  be  allowed  for  rising. 
This  makes  three  loaves  and  ninety  biscuit. 

Bread  with  Buttermilk. 

The  evening  before  baking,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  two  quarts 
of  buttermilk  (or  boil  sour  milk  and  take  the  same  quantity  of  the 
whey),  and  pour  into  a  crock  in  which  a  scant  tea-cup  of  sifted  flour 
has  been  placed.  Let  stand  till  sufficiently  cool,  then  add  half  a 
cup  of  yeast,  and  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  the  better  and 
longer  the  sponge  is  stirred  the  whiter  will  be  the  bread.  In  the 
morning  siffc  the  flour  into  the  bread-pan,  pour  the  sponge  in  the 
center,  stir  in  some  of  the  flour,  and  let  stand  until  after  break- 
fast ;  then  mix,  kneading  for  about  half  an  hour,  the  longer  the 
better ;  when  light,  mold  into  loaves,  this  time  kneading  as  little  as 
possible.  The  secret  of  good  bread  is  having  good  yeasl^  and  not 
baking  too  hard.  This  makes  four  loaves  and  forty  biscuit. — Mn. 
M,  G.  MooTCy 

Good  Bread. 

For  four  small  loaves  boil  four  large  potatoes ;  when  done,  pour 
off  the  water,  and  when  it  cools  add  to  it  a  yeast  cake ;  mash  the 
potato  very  fine,  put  through  a  sieve,  pour  boiling  milk  on  as  much 
flour  as  i&  needed,  let  stand  until  cool,  add  the  potato  and  yeast,  a 
large  tearspoon  of  salt  and  one  table-spoon  of  sugar ;  stir  very  stiff, 
adding  flour  as  is  needed.     Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  light, 


BREAD-MAKING,  19 

dissolve  one  tea-spoon  of  soda  in' a  little  hot  water,  mix  well  through 
with  the  hands,  mold  into  loaves,  and  let  rise  again.  When  suffi- 
ciently raised  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  keeping  up  a  steady 
fire. — Mrs.  Ctcvemor  Hardin,  Missouri. 

Hop- Yeast  Bread. 

One  tea-cup  yeast,  three  pints  warm  water;  make  a  thin  sponge 
at  tea  time,  cover  and  let  it  remain  two  hours  or  until  very  light. 
By  adding  the  water  to  the  dour  iirst  and  having  the  sponge  quite 
warm,  it  is  never  necessary  to  put  the  sponge  over  hot  water  or  in 
an  oveu  to  make  it  rise.  Knead  into  a  loaf  before  going  to  bed ;  in 
the  morning  mold  into  three  loaves,  spreading  a  little  lard  between 
as  they  are  put  in  the  pan.  When  light,  bake  one  hour,  having 
oven  quite  hot  when  the  bread  is  put  in,  and  very  moderate  when 
it  is  done.  (Bread  made  in  this  way  is  never  sour  or  heavy.)  To 
have  fine,  light  biscuit,  add  shortening  at  night,  and  in  the  morning 
make  into  biscuit  and  bake  for  breakfast.  By  this  recipe  bread  is 
baked  befoi'e  the  stove  is  cold  from  breakfast,  and  out  of  the  way 
for  other  baking. 

To  cool  bread  there  should  be  a  board  for  the  purpose.  An  oaken 
board,  covered  with  heavy  white  flannel,  is  the  best ;  over  this  spread 
a  fresh  linen  bread-cloth,  and  lay  the  bread  on  it  right  side  up,  with 
Bothing  over  it  except  a  very  thin  cover  to  keep  off  the  flies.  It 
should  be  placed  immediately  in  the  firesh  air  or  wind  to  cool ;  when 
cool,  place  immediately  in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar,  and  cover  closely. 
Br^d  cooled  in  this  way  will  have  a  soft  crust,  and  be  filled  with 
pure  air. — Mrs  J.  T,  Liggett,  Detroit, 

Bread  with  Potato  Sponge. 

■ 

Pare  and  boil  four  or  five  potatoes,  mash  fine,  and  add  one  pint 
of  flour;  pour  on  the  mixture  first  boiling  water  enough  to  moisten 
well,  then  about  one  quart  of  cold  water,  after  which  add  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  When  cooled  to  **  scarcely  milk 
warm,"  put  in  one-half  pint  (or  more  will  do  no  harm)  of  yeast, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night ;  in  the  morning  add  to 
this  sponge  one  cup  of  lard,  stir  in  flour,  and  knead  well.  The 
more  kneading  the  finer  and  whiter  the  bread  will  be ;  pounding 
also  with  a  potato-masher  improves  the  bread  greatly,  and  is  rather 


20  BREAD-MAKINQ, 

easier  than  so  much  kneading.  When  quite  stiff  and  well  worked 
and  pounded,  let  it  rise  again,  and  when  light,  nmke  into  loaves  or 
biscuit,  adding  no  more  flour  except  to  flour  the  hands  and  board — 
merely  enough  to  prevent  the  bread  from  sticking.  Let  it  rise 
again,  then  bake;  and  immediately  after  taking  from  the  oven, 
wrap  in  a  wet  towel  until  partly  cold,  in  order  to  soften  the  crust. 
If  yeast  and ^Zour  are  good  (esserUiala  in  all  cases),  the  above  process 
will  make  good  bread. — Mrs.  Clara  Morey 

Poor-Man's  Bread. 

One  pint  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  one  level  tea-spoon  soda,  a 

pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  soda-biscuit  dough ; 

cut  into  three  pieces,  handle  as  little  as  possible,  roll  an  inch  thick, 

place  in  dripping-pan,  bake  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven, 

and,  when  done,  wrap  in  a  bread  cloth.     Eat  while  warm,  breaking 

open  like  a  biscuit.     Each  cake  will  be  about  the  size  of  a  pie. — 

Mn,  D.  B. 

Bread  wriH  Potatoes. 

To  one  quart  of  blood-warm  water  or  milk  (if  milk  is  used,  it 
must  first  be  scalded  and  then  cooled  to  blood  heat),  take  two  quarts 
sifted  flour  and  one  teacup  fresh  potato  yeast.  Put  the  milk  or 
water  into  a  one-gallon  stone  crock  and  stir  the  flour  gradually  into 
it,  then  add  the  yeast,  beating  it  vigorously  for  fift;een  minutes ;  set 
to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  putting  the  crock  in  a  pan  (to  catch  the 
drippings  if  it  should  run  over).  If  in  winter,  mix  it  as  early  as 
SIX  or  seven  o'clocK  in  tne  evenmg.  Cover  very  closely  wfth  a 
clean  white  cloth,  with  a  blanket  over  it,  kept  purposely  for  this 
(the  cloths  used  for  bread  should  not  be  taken  for  any  thing  else). 
In  the  morning,  sift  three  quarts  of  flour  into  the  bread-pan,  setting 
it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  bring  it  to  the  same  temperature 
as  the  sponge.  Pare  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  and  boil  them  in 
three  pints  of  water ;  when  thoroughly  cooked,  remove  the  potatoes 
and  pour  the  boiling  hot  water  (which  will  now  be  about  one  quart) 
over  the  flour,  stirring  it  with  a  spoon.  Mash  the  potatoes  very 
fine,  and  beat  them  as  if  for  the  table;  mix  them  in  the  flour,  and 
when  cooled  to  blood  heat,  pour  in  the  sponge,  and  mix  well.  Add 
more  wetting  or  flour  if  needed,  rub  off  all  that  adheres  to  the  sides 


BREAD-MAKINQ.  21 

of  the  pan,  and  mix  with  the  dough,  kneading  it  from  forty-five 
minutes  to  one  hour ;  then  place  the  pan  to  rise,  cover  closely  with 
the  cloth  and  blanket,  setting  it  where  there  is  no  draft  (this  is  im* 
perative).  When  it  has  risen  to  twice  its  size,  knead  down  in  the 
pan,  take  one  quart  of  dough  for  each  loaf,  knead  each  five  min- 
utes with  quick,  elastic  movements,  grease  tlie  sides  of  the  loaves 
with  sweet,  melted  butter  if  two  or  more  are  placed  in  the  same 
pan ;  or  the  loaves  may  be  greased  all  over  lightly  before  placing  in 
the  pan,  a  process  which  adds  much  to  the  sweetness  of  the  crust. 
The  pan  should  be  thoroughly  but  lightly  greased.  Let  rise  until 
as  large  again  as  when  molded,  then  bake.  Have  your  oven  mod- 
erately heated  at  first,  with  a  fire  in  the  stove  that  will  keep  it  of  a 
uniform  temperature.  (For  manner  of  testing  oven,  see  general 
instructions  for  bread-making.)  Bake  from  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  to  one  hour  and  a  quarter,  according  to  the  size  of  the  loaves, 
during  which  time  the  bread  should  be  carefully  watched  to  see  that 
the  proper  degree  of  heat  is  steadily  kept  up.  Before  browning 
they  will  have  risen  to  double  their  size  when  placed  in  the  oven. 
The  heat  of  the  oven  is  all  important,  for  if  too  hot  the  loaves  will 
not  rise  sufficiently;  if  too  cold  they  will  rise  too  much,  and  the 
bread  will  be  coarse  and  porous.  When  done,  place  on  side,  and 
oool  without  covering.  Never  use  flour  without  sifting,  as  sifting 
enlivens  and  serates  the  flour,  and  makes  both  mixing  and  rising 
easier  and  quicker.  Quick  rising  makes  whiter  bread,  and  it  is  veiy 
necessary  that  in  all  its  diflerent  risings,  bread  should  be  mixed  M 
soon  as  ready. — Auldafi,  Siieboygan,  Me. 

Bread  Raised  Once. 

No  other  yeast  is  made  with  so  little  trouble  as  potato  yeast 
Bread  made  fr^m  it  keeps  moist  longer,  and  there  is  no  danger  of 
injuring  the  flavor  of  the  bread  by  using  too  much.  When  plen- 
tifully used,  a  beautiful,  light,  sweet,  fine-grained  bread  is  produced 
by  only  one  rising,  thus  saving  not  only  time  and  trouble,  but  also, 
what  is  more  important,  the  sweet  flavor  and  nutritious  qualities 
which  greatly  sufler  by  the  second  fermentation,  almost  universally 
practiced.  When  this  fact  is  thoroughly  understood,  every  one  will 
appreciate  the  importance  of  checking  excessive  fermentationy  dur- 


22  BREAD-MAKINQ. 

ing  which  decomposition  actually  takes  place,  and  the  delicate^ 
foamy  loaves,  *'  yeasted  to  death/'  which  so  many  families  now  use 
and  call  the  '*  staff  of  life/'  will  give  place  to  the  sweet,  substantial 
home-made  loaves,  such  as  our  good  mothers  and  grandmothers 
kneaded  with  their  own  skilled  hands. 

Take  care  that  the  yeast  is  good  and  **  lively,"  for,  without  this, 
failure  is  certain.  To  make  three  loaves  of  bread,  warm  and  lightly 
grease  the  baking-pans,  sift  three  quarts  or  more  of  dour  into  the 
bread-pan,  press  down  the  middle,  and  into  it  put  two  small  table- 
spoons of  fine  salt ;  pour  in  slowly  one  quart  of  milk-warm  water, 
constantly  stirring  with  one  hand  in  the  flour,  until  a  thin  batter  is 
formed;  add  a  pint  or  more  of  potato  yeast  or  one  tea-cup  of  hop 
yeast.  (If  compressed  yeast  is  used,  a  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  or  a  piece  of  compressed  yeast  as  large  as  a  walnut, 
dissolved  in  the  same  manner,  is  sufRciont.)  Mix  thoroughly,  add- 
ing more  and  more  flour,  until  a  stiff  dough  is  formed;  place  on 
the  bread-board,  knead  vigorously  for  twenty  minutes  or  more, 
flouring  the  board  frequently  to  prevent  the  dough  from  sticking  to 
it,  divide  into  loaves  of  a  size  to  suit  pans,  mold  into  a  comely 
shape,  place  in  pans,  rub  over  the  top  a  light  coating  of  sweet, 
drawn  butter,  set  in  a  warm,  not  too  hot  place  to  rise,  cover  lightly 
to  keep  off  dust  and  air,  watch  and  oc^casionally  turn  the  pans 
around  when  necessary  to  make  the  loaves  rise  evenly ;  when  risen 
to  about  double  the  original  size,  draw  across  the  top  of  each  length- 
wise with  a  sharp  knife,  making  a  slit  half  an  inch  deep,  place 
them  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  and  bake  one  hour,  watching 
carefully  from  time  to  time  to  make  certain  that  a  proper  degree  of 
heat  is  kept  up.  Before  browning  they  will  rise  to  double  the  size 
of  loaf  which  was  placed  in  the  oven,  and  pans  must'  be  provided 
deep  enough  to  retain  them  in  shape.  Bake  until  well  done  and 
nicely  browned.  Nothing  adds  morf  to  the  sweetness  and  digesti' 
bility  of  wheaten  bread  than  thorough  baking.  When  done,  re^ 
move  from  pans  immediately,  to  prevent  the  sweating  and  softening 
of  the  crust — Mn,  L.  B,  Lyman,  Antioch,  CaL 


BBEAD-MAKINQ.  23 

Brkad  Raised  Twice. 

Measure  oat  four  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  take  out  a  pint  in  a  cup, 
and  place  remainder  in  a  bread-pan.  Make  a  well  in  the  middle, 
into  which  turn  one  table-spoon  sugar,  one  of  salt,  and  one  cup  of 
jeast;  then  mix  in  one  pint  of  miJk  which  has  been  made  blood- 
warm  by  adding  one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  beat  well  with  a  strong 
spoon,  add  one  table-spoon  lard,  knead  for  twenty  to  thirty  minute?, 
and  let  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  knead  again,  make  into 
loaves,  let  them  rise  one  hour,  and  bake  fifty  minutes.  Water  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  pint  of  milk,  in  which  case  use  twice  as  much 
lard. 

Bread  Raised  Three  Times. 

Begin  about  5  p.  m.,  plan  for  six  loaves,  somewhat  larger  than 
bakers'  loaves ;  take  two  little  cakes  of  yeast,  put  them  into  a  pint 
of  tepid  water,  and,  when  soft,  beat  in  thoroughly  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thick  batter,  and  put  in  a  warm  place.  If  the  excellent 
"Farmer's  Yeast,"  the  recipe  for  which  is  given  hereafter,  is  used, 
take  half  a  tea-cup  and  stir  into  the  batter.  A  good  dish  for  this 
purpose  is  a  large  bowl,  a  broad  open  pitcher,  or  a  bright  three- 
quart  tin  pail,  and  it  should  be  clean  in  the  strictest  sense.  This 
should  rise  in  about  two  hours;  and  when  nearly  light,  take  six  or 
eight  medium-sized  potatoes,  pare  neatly,  rinse  clean,  and  boil  in 
three  pints  of  water  till  well  done,  mash  very  fine  in  the  water 
while  hot.  Have  ready  a  bread-pan  of  sifted  flour,  into  which  put 
a  tea-spoon  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  and  a  bit  of  lard  as 
large  as  an  egg ;  then  riddle  the  potato  mash,  hot  as  it  is,  'through 
a  sieve  or  fine  colander  into  the  flour,  and  stir  with  a  kitchen  spoon 
into  a  stifl*  dough.  This  scalds  about  half  the  flour  used  in  the 
batch  of  bread.  This  mass  must  cool  till  it  wiU  not  scald  ihe  yeast, 
which  may  now  be  mixed  in  md  put  in  a  warm,  not  hot,  place  for 
second  rising,  which  will  be  accomplished  by  morning,  when  the 
kneading  may  be  done.  Kneading  is  the  flnest  point  of  bread-mak- 
ing, and  contains  more  of  the  art  than  any  other;  it  requires  skiU, 
time,  patience,  and  hard  work.  Work  in  flour  no  faster  than  is  re- 
quired to  allow  thorough  kneading,  which  can  not  be  done  in  less 
tban  forty-five  minutes,  but  should  not  be  worked  much  over  an 


24  BREAD-MAKINO, 

hour;  one  hour  is  a  good  uniform  rule.  The  mechanical  bakers 
use  sets  of  rollers  driven  by  steam  power,  between  which  the  dough 
is  passed,  coming  out  a  sheet  an  inch  thick;  it  is  folded  together 
several  times  and  rolled  again  and  again.  This  process  should  be 
imitated  somewhat  by  the  hands  in  the  family  kitchen.  The  work- 
ing of  the  dough  gives  grain  and  flakiness  to  tlie  bread.  The  dough 
when  kueaded  should  be  soft,  but  not  sticky — stiff  enough  to  retain 
its  roundness  on  the  board.  Put  back  into  the  pan  for  the  third 
rising,  which  will  require  but  little  time,  and  when  light,  cut  off 
enough  for  each  loaf  by  itself.  Knead  but  little,  and  put  into  the 
baking-pans.  If  the  first  kneading  has  been  well  done,  no  more 
flour  will  be  needed  in  molding  into  loaves.  These  must  remain  in 
the  baking-pans  till  nearly  as  large  as  the  loaves  ought  to  be,  when 
they  may  be  put  into  a  well-heated  oven.  If  the  oven  is  a  trifle 
too  hot,  or  if  it  tends  to  bake  hard  on  the  top,  a  piece  of  brown 
paper  may  be  put  over  the  loaves  (save  some  clean  grocer's  paper 
for  this  purpose),  and  from  forty  to  sixty  minutes  will  cook  it  thor- 
oughly. After  the  loaves  are  put  into  the  baking-pans,  avoid  jar- 
ring them,  as  it  will  make  portions  of  them  heavy. 

If  the  yeast  is  '* set"  at  5  p.  M.,  the  bi^ad  will  be  ready  for 
dinner  next  day ;  if  in  the  morning,  the  baking  will  be  done  early 
in  the  evening,  or  twelve  hours  after,  with  fair  temperature  and 
good  yeast.  Bread  made  lu  this  way  will  be  good  for  a  week,*  and, 
with  fair  weather  and  careful  keeping,  even  two  weeks.  When 
dry,  a  slice  toasted  will  be  as  crisp,  sweet,  and  granular  as  Yan- 
kee ginger-bread. — Mrs,  H.  Young, 
» 

Bread,  in  Summer  or  Wintep. 

In  summer  take  three  pints  of  cold  or  tepid  water,  four  table^ 
spoons  of  yeast,  one  tea-spoon  of  salt ;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make 
a  thick  sponge  (rather  thicker  than  griddle-cakes).  Let  stand  until 
morning,  then  add  more  flour,  m\if  stiff,  and  knead  ten  minutes; 
place  in  a  pan,  let  rise  until  light,  knead  for  another  ten  minutes; 
mold  into  four  loaves,  and  set  to  rise,  but  do  not  let  it  get  too  light; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.  If  bread  is  mixed  at  six  o'clock 
in  the  morning,  the  baking  ought  to  be  done  by  ten  o'clock. 

In  winter  take  one  pint  of  buttermilk  or  clabbered  milk ;   let  it 


BREAD-MAKINQ.  25 

ecald  (not  boil) ;  make  a  well  in  the  center  of  the  flour,  into  it  turn 
the  hot  milk,  add  one  tea-spoon  of  salt,  enough  flour  and  water  to 
make  sufficient  sponge,  and  one  tea-cup  of  yeast;  let  stand  until 
morning,  and  then  prepare  the  bread  as  in  summer.  This  is  more 
convenient  to  make  in  winter,  since  a  hot  fire  is  needed  to  heat  the 
milk. — Mrs.  £>.  Bvxton, 

Salt-Rising  Bread. 

The  leaven  for  this  bread  is  prepared  thus :  Take  a  pint  of  warm 
water — about  90° — (if  a  little  too  hot  defeat  is  certain)  in  a  per- 
fectly clean  bowl  and  stir  up  a  thick  batter,  adding  only  a  tea-spoon 
of  salt;  a  thorough  beating  of  the  batter  is  important.  Set  in  a 
pan  of  warm  water  to  secure  uniformity  of  temperature,  and  in 
two  to  four  hours  it  will  begin  to  rise.  The  rising  is  much  more 
sure  if  coarse  flour  or  '*  shorts"  is  used  instead  of  fine  flour. 

When  your  '*  rising"  is  nearly  light  enough,  take  a  pint  of  milk 
and  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  (a  table-spoon  of  lime  water  added  is 
good,  and  often  prevents  souring),  mix  the  sponge  in  the  bread-pan, 
and  when  cooled  to  about  milk-warm,  stir  in  the  rising.  The 
sponge  thus  made  will  be  light  in  two  to  four  hours,  with  good 
warmth.  The  dough  requires  less  kneading  than  yeast-raised  dough. 
The  bread  is  simpler,  but  not  so  certain  of  rising,  and  you  leave 
out  all  the  ingredients  save  the  flour,  water  (milk  is  not  essential), 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  It  should  be  made  more  frequently  as  it  dries 
&ster  than  bread  containing  potatoes.  Some  object  to  it  because  of 
the  odor  in  rising,  which  is  the  result  of  acetous  fermentation,  but 
the  more  of  that  the  more  sure  you  are  of  having  sweet  bread  when 
baked. — Mrs.  H,  Youngs 

•Another  Salt-Risino  Bread. 
In  summer  take  at  night  one  (scant)  pint  of  new  milk,  half  as 
much  hot  water,  a  teanspoon  salt,  one  of  sugar,  and  a  very  little  soda. 
Mix  all  in  a  nice,  sweet  piich^r  (it  must  be  perfectly  clean  and 
sweet),  stir  in  one  table-spoon  of  corn  meal,  and  add  flour  enough 
to  make  a  medium  batter;  stir  well,  place  the  pitcher  in  an  iron 
kettle  with  quite  warm  water,  using  so  much  water  that  the  pitcher 
will  barely  rest  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle ;  cover  closely  and  leave 
all  night  (on  the  stove  if  the  fire  is  nearly  out)  where  it  will  be 


26  BBEAD-MAKINQ, 

kept  warm,  not  hot,  for  an  hour  or  two.  If  the  pitcher  is  not  too 
large,  it  will  probably  be  full  in  the  morning;  if  not,  add  a  spoon 
of  flour,  stir  well,  warm  the  water  in  the  kettle,  replace  the 
pitcher,  cover,  and  keep  it  vxirm  until  light  Have  ready  two 
quarts  of  sifted  flour  in  a  pan,  make  a  hole  in  the  center,  put  in  an 
even  tea-spoon  of  salt,  a  tea-cup  of  nearly  boiling  water ;  add  one 
pint  of  new  milk,  and  stir  a  batter  there  in  the  center  of  the  flour, 
/iddthe  "emptyings"  from  the  pitcher,  and  stir  well  (there  will  be  a 
good  deal  of  flour  all  round  the  batter ;  this  is  right) ;  cover  with 
another  pan,  keep  warm  until  light — ^it  will  rise  in  an  hour  or  even 
less — when  it  is  ready  to  be  weO,  kneaded,  and  made  directly  into 
loaves,  which  place  in  the  baking-pans,  keep  well  covered  and  vxirm 
until  light,  when  it  is  ready  to  bake.  The  secret  of  success  is  to 
keep  it  warm  but  not  at  all  liot.  This  bread  is  good  if  no  milk  is 
used ;  indeed,  some  prefer  it  made  with  water  alone  instead  of  milk 
and  water.  In  cold  weather,  if  kitchen  is  cold  at  night,  do  not  set 
.  "emptyings**  over  night,  but  make  early  in  the  morning. — JBavillah^ 
FarinoLy 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 
One  heaping  coffee-cup  each  of  corn,  rye  and  Graham  meal. 
The  rye  meal  should  be  as  fine  as  the  Graham,  or  rye  flour  may  be 
used.  Sift  the  three  kinds  together  as  closely  as  possible,  and  beat 
together  thoroughly  with  two  cups  New  Orleans  or  Porto  Kico  mo- 
lasses, two  cups  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  dessert-spoon 
soda,  one  tea-spoon  salt;  pour  into  a  tin  form,  place  in  a  kettle  of 
cM  water,  put  on  and  boil  four  hours.  Put  on  to  cook  as  soon  as 
mixed.  It  may  appear  to  be  too  thin,  but?  it  is  not,  as  this  recipe 
has  never  been  known  to  fail.  Serve  warm,  with  baked  beans  or 
Thanksgiving  turkey.  The  bread  should  not  quite  fill  the  form 
(or  a  tin  pail  with  cover  will  answer),  as  it  must  have  room  to  swell. 
See  that  the  water  does  not  boil  up  to  the  top  of  the  form;  also 
take  care  it  does  not  boil  entirely  away  or  stop  boiling.  To  serve 
it,  remove  the  lid  and  set  it  a  few  moments  into  the  open  oven  to 
dry  the  top,  and  it  will  then  turn  out  in  perfect  shape.  This  bread 
can  be  used  as  a  pudding,  and  served  with  a  sauce  made  of  thick 
nour  cream,  well  sweetened  and  seasoned  with  nutmeg;  or  it  is  good 
toasted  the  next  day. — Mn.  H.  S.  Stevem,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 


BBEADMAXma.  27 

MiBsouBi  Bbown  Bkead. 

One  pint  each  of  rye  or  Graham  and  Indian  meal,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, three-fburths  cup  sour  milk,  one  and  one-half  tea-spoons  soda, 
one  and  one-half  pints  cold  water.  Put  on  stove  over  cold  water 
(all  brown  breads  are  better  when  put  on  to  steam  over  cold  water, 
which  is  afterwards  brought  to  the  boiling  point  and  kept  con- 
stantly boiling  until  bread  is  done) ;  steam  four  hours,  and  brown 
over  in  the  oven. — B.  &•/".,  St,  Joe,  Mo. 

Brown  Bread. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk,  and  one-half  cup  molasses ;  into 
these  put  one  heaping  tea-spoon  soda,  two  cups  corn-meal,  one  cup 
Graham  flour  and  one  tea-spoon  salt.  Use  cofiee-cups.  Steam 
three  hours,  and  afterwards  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  M.  Irvine,  De 
KaU>,  Mo. 

Bread  with  Bice. 

Three  tea-cups  rice-flour,  one  of  wheat-flour,  one  heaping  tear 
spoon  cream  of  tartar  rubbed  in  flour,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  table- 
spoon butter,  one-half  teanspoon  soda,  and  sweet  milk,  to  consistency 
of  pound-cake.     Salt  to  taste. — Mre.  HtK,  Va. 

Bread  with  Mush. 

Four  two  quarts  hot  corn-meal  mush,  made  as  for  eating,  over 
two  quarts  flour  (wheat  or  Graham) ;  when  cool,  add  one  quart 
sponge,  one  coflfee-cup  molasses,  one  tearspoon  salt,  half  tearspoon 
soda;  mix  well  together;  add  more  flour  if  needed,  and  knead 
thoroughly;  mold  into  small  loaves;  let  rise  and  bake  in  small 
dripping  pans  (a  loaf  in  a  pan),  or  pie-tins,  in  a  moderate  oven; 
when  done,  rub  over  with  butter,  place  on  the  side,  wrap  in  a  cloth, 
and  when  cold  put  in  a  jar  or  box.  This  recipe  makes  three  good- 
sized  loaves  and  keeps  moist  longer  than  all  Graham  bread. — Mn. 
W.  W.  Woodk. 

Clabber  Bread. 

Beat  four  eggs  separately;  take  two  cups  of  clabber,  one  table- 
spoon butter  (slightly  heaped,  and  place  where  it  will  soften),  a  tea- 
spoon each  soda  and  salt;  mix  with  flour  to  a  stiff  batter;  grease 
pan,  pour  in  batter,  and  let  rise  an  hour  before  baking.    Excellent. 


28  BRMAD-MAKINO. 

Mrs.  B.'s  Cokn  Bread. 

One  quart  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  two  table-spoons  lard  or  butter 
(or  half  and  half)*  one  table-spoon  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  handful 
of  wheat  flour,  and  enough  corn  meal  (sifted)  to  make  a  good  bat- 
ter ;  add  one  heaping  tea-spoon  soda,  stir  thoroughly,  and  bake  in 

long  dripping  pan. 

Boiled  Corn  Bread. 

One  and  one-fourth  pints  each  of  sweet  milk  and  buttermOk  or 
sour  cream,  hall  a  pint  molasses,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  three  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar,  one  even  table-spoon  salt,  one  and  a  fourth 
pints  each  of  corn  meal  and  flour;  sift  the  soda  and  cream  tartar  in 
the  flour ;  mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly  together  and  put  in  a 
buttered  tin  pail ;  cover  closely,  place  in  a  kettle  two-thirds  full  of 
boiling  water ;  cover,  and  boil  steadily  for  three  hours,  replenish* 
ing  when  needful  with  boiling  water.  To  be  eaten  hot  with  butter. 
—Mrs.  I.  K  BurrUt  in  ''In  ike  KUchen." 

Corn  Bread.  - 

One  pint  corn  meal  sifted,  one  pint  flour,  one  pint  sour  milk, 

two  eggs  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 

egg ;  add,  the  last  thuig,  one  tea-spoon  soda  in  a  little  milk ;  add  to 

the  beaten  egg  the  milk  and  meal  alternately,  then  the   butter  and 

sugar.     If  sweet  milk  is  used,  add  one  tea-spoon  cream  tartar ;  bake 

twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  —Mrs.  H.  B.  Sherman,  Mihoavkeet 

Wisconsin, 

Corn  Bread. 

Take  one  quart  buttermilk,  and  one  heaping  pint  corn  meal,  one 
tea-spoon  soda,  one  of  salt,  one  table-spoon  sugar  and  three  eggs ; 
have  the  stove  very  hot,  and  do  not  bake  in  too  deep  a  pan.  The 
batter  seems  too  thin,  but  bakes  very  nicely. — 3frs.  J.  H.  Shearer, 
Marysmlle^  Ohio, 

The  Bread  of  our  Forefathers. 
Put  in  a  pan  two  quarts  of  meal,  a  half-pint  of  flour,  stir  up  well ; 
pour  in  the  center  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  up  enough  of  the 
meal  to  make  a  thin  batter;  when  cool,  put  in  a  cup  of  yeast,  a 
tea-spoon  of  salt  and  enough  warm  water  to  make  a  thick  batter  ; 
let  rise,  then  place  in  a  deep,  well-greased  pan,  cover  with  another 


BREAD-MAKINQ.  29 

pan,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven.    When  nearly  done,  remove  the 

cover,  and  bake  slowly  until  done.     Excellent  when  cold. 

All  baking-pans  for  bread  should  be  made  with  covers,  made  of 

the  same  material,  and  high  enough  to  permit  the  bread  to  rise  to 

its  Aill  size.     If  pan  is  deep  enough  to  permit  the   bread  to  rise 

without  touching  it,  a  flat  piece  of  tin  or  sheet-iron  will  answer  for 

the  cover,  or  a  cover  may  be  made  of  paper,  or  another  pan  may 

be  inverted  over  the  bread.     The  office  of  the  cover  is  to  prevent 

the  crust  from  browning  hard  before  the  expansion  of  the  gases  has 

made  the  bread  light  and  porous. — Mrs.  C.   V.  OoUier,  Liidifiddj 

Minnesota. 

Plain  Corn  Bread. 

One  well-heaped  pint  com  meal,  one  pint  sour  or  buttermilk,  one 
e^,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  one  of  salt ;  bake  in  dripping  or  gem  pans. 
If  preferred,  one  heaping  table-spoon  of  sugar  may  be  added. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread. 
Two  cups  each  corn  meal,  Graham  flour  and  sour  milk,  two- 
thirds  cup  molasses,  one  tea-spoon  soda;    steam  two  hours  and  a 
half  — Mrs.  Jennie  Guthrie  Cherry,  Newark. 

Graham  Bread. 
Take  a  little  over  a  quart  of  warm  water,  one-half  cup  brown 
sugar  or  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  hop  yeast,  and  one  and  one-half 
tea-spoons  salt ;  thicken  the  water  with  unbolted  flour  lo  a  thin  bat- 
ter ;  add  sugar,  salt  and  yeast,  and  stir  in  more  flour  until  quite 
sdfil  In  the  morning  add  a  small  tea-spoon  soda,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  the  batter  stiff*  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon ;  put  it  into 
pans  and  let  rise  again;  then  bake  in  even  oven,  not  too  hot  at 
first ;  keep  warm  whUe  rising ;  smooth  over  the  loaves  with  a  spoon 
<»r  knife  dipped Jn  water. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Sherman,  PUxnkiivUm  House, 

MHwaukee,  Wi^condn. 

Graham  Bread. 

Mix  three  quarts  Graham  flour,  one  quart  warm  water,  half  pint 

yeast,  a  quarter- pint  molasses,  and  one  table-spoon  salt,  thoroughly; 

put  in  well-buttered  pans,  and  leave  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  or  let 

it  rise  over  night  at  60^.   If  left  to  rise  slowly,  let  it  remain  in  the 

bowl  in  which  it  was  mixed,  and  unless   very  light  when  put  in 


30  BREAD-MAKING. 

pans,  let   it  stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  patting  in 

the  oven. 

Graham  Bread. 

To  one  and  a  half  pints  of  tepid  water  add  one  heaping  tea-spoon 
of  salt  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar ;  stir  in  one-half  pint  or  more  of 
the  sponge  made  of  white  flour,  as  in  recipe  for  "  Bread  with  Potato 
Yeast;"  add  Graham  flour  until  aliuost  too  fiiff  to  8^r;  put  in  the 
baking-pan  and  let  rise  well,  which  will  take  about  two  hours,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  done,  wrap  in  a  wet  towel  until  cool. 
— Mn.  Qara  Woods  Morey. 

Quick  Graham  Bread. 

One  and  a  half  pints  sour  milk,  half  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 
a  little  salt,  two  tearspoons  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  and 
as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon ;  pour  in 
well-greased  pan,  put  in  oven  as  soon  as  mixed,  and  bake  two 
hours. — Mrs.  E.  J.  W. 

Bte  and  Indian  Bread. 

One  quart  of  rye  meal  or  rje  flour,  two  quarts  of  Indian  meal, 
scalded  (by  placing  in  a  pan  and  pouring  just  enough  boUing  water 
over  it,  stirring  constantly  with  a  spoon,  to  merely  wet  it,  but  not 
enough  to  make  it  into  a  batter),  one-half  tea-cup  molasses,  two  tea- 
spoons salt,  one  of  soda,  one  tearcup  yeast ;  make  as  stiff  as  can  be 
stirred  with  a  spoon,  mixing  with  warm  water,  and  let  rise  all 
night;  then  put  in  a  large  pan,  smooth  the  top  with  the  hand 
dipped  in  cold  water,  let  it  stand  a  short  time,  and  bake  five  or  six 
hours.  If  put  in  the  oven  late  in  the  day,  let  it  remain  all  night 
Graham  may  be  used  instead  of  rye,  and  baked  as  above.  In  tha 
olden  time  it  was  placed  in  kettle,  allowed  to  rise,  then  placed  ov 
the  hearth  before  the  fire,  with  coals  on  top  of  lid,  and  baked.^« 
Mm.  Charles  FuttingUm,  ilarymUe^  Ohio. 

Rte  Bread. 

Make  a  sponge  of  one  quart  warm  water,  one  tea  cup  yeast, 
thickened  with  rye  flour;  put  in  warm  place  to  rise  over  night; 
scald  one  pint  com  meal ;  when  coul  add  it  to  sponge,  and  add  rye 
flour  till  thick  enough  to  knead,  ht^wl  hvt  liitk,  let  rise,  mcU  into 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  31 

loaves,  place  in  deep  pie-tiiis  or  small  pudding-pans,  let  rise  and 
bake ;  or,  thicken  tlie  sponge  with  rye  flour,  and  proceed  as  above. 
Wheat  sponge  may  be  used  instead  of  rye. — Mn,  Eliza  T.  Carson, 
Deiawarey  Ohio, 

Rte  Bread. 

Make  sponge  as  for  wheat  bread,  let  rise  over  night,  then  mix  it 
up  with  the  rye  flour  (not  so  stiff  as  wheat  bread),  and  bake. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 


To  make  biscuit,  take  a  part  of  the  dough  left  from  bread-making 
when  it  is  ready  to  mold  into  loaves,  work  in  the  lard  and  any  other 
ingredients  desired,  such  as  butter,  eggs,  sugar,  spice,  etc.,  also 
using  a  little  more  flour ;  let  rise  once,  then  mix  down  and  let  rise 
again,  turn  out  on  "iie  bread-board,  knead  a  few  minutes,  roll,  and 
cut  out  with  a  biscuit-cutter  or  mold  with  the  hand.  Place  in  a 
well-greased  dripping-pan,  and  when  light  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  To  make  them  a  nice  color,  wet 
the  top  with  warm  water  just  before  placing  in  the  oven.  To  glaze, 
brush  lightly  with  milk  and  sugar,  or  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg 
sweetened,  and  a  little  milk  added. 

Biscuit  may  be  baked  in  eight  minutes  by  making  the  oven  as 
hot  as  can  be  without  burning,  and  allowing  it  to  cool  off  gradually 
as  they  bake ;  this  makes  them  very  light,  but  one  has  to  watch 
closely  to  keep  them  from  being  scorched.  Any  kind  of  bread  or 
pastry  mixed  with  water  requires  a  hotter  fire  than  that  mixed  \rith 
milk. 

Biscuit  and  rolls  should  be  allowed  to  rise  one-half  longer  than 
bread  loaves,  because  the  loaves  of  the  former,  being  smaller,  are 
penetrated  sooner  by  the  heat,  and,  of  course,  the  fermentation  is 
stopped  sooner,  and  the  rolls  do  not  rise  so  much  in  the  oven.  ^ 

Biscuit  for  tea  at  six  must  be  molded  two  hours  before,  which 
will  give  ample  time  for  rising  and  baking.  Parker  House  rolls  for 
break&st  at  eight  must  be  made  ready  at  five.     Many  think  it 


82  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

UDDecessarj  to  knead  dowu  either  bread  or  biscuit  as  often  as  hero 
directed ;  but  if  attention  is  given  to  the  dough  at  the  right  time, 
and  it  is  not  suffered  to  become  too  lights  it  will  be  much  nicer, 
whiter,  and  of  a  finer  texture  if  these  directions  are  followed. 

The  almost  universal  custom  is  to  set  the  sponge  at  night,  but 
many  excellent  bread-makers  differ  widely  from  this  in  practice,  and 
their  objections  deserve  candid  consideration  in  this  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, when  so  much  is  written  of  dyspepsia  and  its  causes.  Some 
medical  authorities  assert  that  cancer  in  the  stomach  has  its  origin 
in  dyspepsia,  which,  in  the  beginning,  is  caused  by  the  use  of  indi- 
gestible yeast  bread,  in  which  the  process  of  fermentation  has  been 
allowed  to  go  so  far  that  a  certain  amount  of  actual  decomposition 
has  taken  place.  This  is  not  the  fault  of  such  recipes  as  are  giveu 
in  this  volume,  but  from  &ilure  to  mix  the  bread  at  each  suc- 
cessive rising  at  ihe  proper  time.  The  objection  to  setting  sponge 
at  night  is,  that  it  stands  too  long.  Bread,  to  be  white,  sweet,  and  . 
digestible,  must  be  mixed  immediately  after  the  sponge  has  risen  to 
the  proper  point,  which  may  be  known  by  Us  puffy  appearance,  usvuiUy 
rising  higJier  in  the  middle  titan  at  Hie  sides  of  ihe  crock ;  if  it  sinks  in 
the  center,  it  has  stood  too  long. 

The  process  of  bread-making  discovered  by  Prof.  Horsford,  of 
Harvard  College,  deserves  the  attention  of  all  housekeepers.  It  is 
claimed,  and  with  good  reason,  that  the  Horsford  process  prevents 
all  decomposition,  saves  all  the  nutritious  properties  of  the  bread, 
and,  by  the  addition  of  acid  phosphate,  renders  it  more  easy  of 
digestion.  Besides  this,  the  use  of  Horsford's  Bread  Preparation 
saves  times,  simplifies  the  whole  process  of  bread-making,  saves 
labor,  and  reduces  the  chances  of  failure  to  the  minimum.  These 
are  considerations  of  great  moment,  especially  to  inexperienced 
housekeepers,  leaving  entirely  out  of  consideration  the  fact  that  this 
bread  may  be  eaten  with  impunity  by  persons  whose  delicate  di- 
gestive organs  are  impaired  by  the  use  of  ordinary  yeast  bread.  It 
is  certain  that  for  rolls,  biscuits,  griddle-cakes,  and  the  whole  list 
of  "Break&st  and  Tea  Cakes,"  the  ** Bread  Preparation"  is  supe. 
nor  to  yeast  or  soda,  or  any  of  the  baking-powders  in  common  use. 

Soda  biscuit  must  be  handled  as  little  and  made  as  rapidly  as 
possible ;  mix  soda  and  cream  tartar  or  baking-powder  in  the  flour 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  »8 

(with  sweet  milk  use  baking-powder  or  soda  and  cream  tartar,  with 
iour  milk  soda  alone),  so  that  the  effervescence  takes  place  in  the 
mixture.  One  tea-spoon  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar,  or  three 
tea-spoons  baking-powder,  to  every  two  pints  of  flour,  is  about  the 
right  proportion.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  as  soon  as  made,  and  they 
rise  more  quickly  if  put  into  hot  pans.  Gems  of  all  kinds  require 
a  hot  oven,  bi)t  the  fire  should  be  built  some  time  before  they  ar» 
put  into  the  oven,  and  allowed  to  go  down  by  the  time  they  are 
light,  as  the  heat  necessary  to  raise  them  will  bum  them  in  baking 
if  kept  up. 

All  biscuit  and  bread,  except  brown  and  Graham  bread,  should 
be  pricked  with  a  fork  before  putting  them>  in  the  oven. 

Soda  and  raised  biscuit  and  bread  or  cake,  when  stale,  can  be 
made  almost  as  nice  as  fresh  by  plunging  for  an  instant  into  cold 
water,  and  then  placing  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes; 
thus  treated  they  should  be  used  immediately. 

Waffle-irons  should  be  heated,  then  buttered  or  greased  with 
lard,  and  one  side  filled  with  batter,  closed  and  laid  on  the  fire  or 
placed  on  the  stove,  and  after  a  few  minutes  turned'  on  the  other 
side.  They  take  about  twice  as  long  to  bake  as  griddle-o^es,  and 
are  delicious  with  a  dressing  of  ground  cinnamon.  Midfins  are 
baked  in  muffin-rings.  In  eating  them,  do  not  cut  but  break  them 
open. 

The  success  of  these  recipes,  and  all  others  in  this  book  in  which 
soda  and  cream  tartar  are  used,  will  depend  on  the  purity  of  these 
ingredients.  Always  buy  the  jmre  English  bicarbonate  of  soda,  and 
the  pare  cream  tartar.  They  are  higher-priced,  but  cheaper  in  the 
end,  and  are  free  from  injurious  substances.  When  not  found  at 
the  grooer^s,  they  may  generally  be  had  at  the  druggist's. 


Bakino  Powder. 

Sixteen  ounces  corn  starch,  eight  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  five  of 
tartaric  acid ;  mix  thoroughly. — Mn.  Dr.  Alien,  Oberlin,  Ohio. 

Eight  ounces  flour,  eight  of  English  bicarbonate  of  soda,  seveD 

of  tartaric  acid ;  mix  thoroughly  by  passing  several  times  throuj^ 

a  sieve. — Mrs.  Trimble,  Mt.  QUead,  Ohio. 
3 


84  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

Bbeakfa8t  Cake. 

Two  table-spoons  sugar,  two  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  milk, 

one  (scanty)  quart  flour,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar; 

bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. — Mn,  Emily  L.  Bwrnham^ 

South  Norwalkf  Gonn. 

Cinnamon  Cake. 

When  yeast  bread  is  ready  to  knead  from  the  sponge,  knead  and 
r  )ll  out  three-fourths  of  an  inch  tliick,  put  thin  slices  of  butter  on 
the  top,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  and  then  with  sugar;  let  rise  well 
and  bake. — Muc  M.  E,  Wilcox,  Sdma,  Alabama. 

BUNB. 

Break  one  egg  Into  a  cup  and  fill  with  sweet  milk ;  mix  with  it 
half  cup  yeast,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  enough  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Let  rise  till  very  lights 
then  mold  into  biscuit  with  a  few  currants.  Let  rise  a  second  time 
in  pan;  bake,  and,  when  nearly  done,  glaze  with  a  little  molasses 
and  milk.  Use  the  same  cup,  no  matter  about  the  size,  for  each 
measure. — Mrs.  W.  A.  James. 

Buttered  Toast. 

Although  toast  is  commonly  used,  few  know  how  to  prepare  it 
nicely.  Take  bread  not  too  fresh,  cut  thin  and  evenly,  trim  off  the 
crust-edges  for  the  crumb-jar;  first  warm  each  side  of  the  bread, 
then  present  the  first  side  again  to  the  fire  until  it  takes  on  a  rich, 
even,  brown  color ;  treat  the  other  side  in  the  same  way ;  butter 
send  serve  immediately.  The  coals  should  be  bright  and  hot.  Toast 
properly  made  id  very  digestible,  because  all  the  moisture  is  ex- 
tracted, and  the  bread  has  become  pure  farina  of  wheat;  but  when 
it  is  exposed  to  a  hot  fire  and  the  outside  charred,  the  inside  remains 
as  moist  as  ever,  and  butter  applied  to  it  while  warm  does  not  pene- 
trate, but  floats  on  the  surface  in  the  form  of  rancid  oil.  Or,  beat 
one  cup  of  butter  and  three  table-spoons  flour  to  a  cream,  pour  over 
this  one  and  a  half  pints  bailing  water  ;  place  over  a  kettle  of  boil' 
ing  water  for  ten  minutes,  dip  into  it  the  toast,  and  serve  hot. 

Or,  dip  each  slice  of  toast  in  boiling  hot  water  (slightly  salted)^ 
spread  with  butter,  cover  and  keep  hot 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  85 

Excellent  Toast. 
Cat  slioes  of  a  uniform  thicknees,  of  half  an  inch ;  move  aromid 
over  a  brisk  fire,  to  have  all  parts  toasted  alike;  keep  only  so  near 
fhe  coals  that  the  pieces  will  be  heated  through  when  both  sides  are 
well  browned.  If  the  slightest  point  is  blackened  or  charred,  scrape 
it  off,  or  it  will  spoil  the  flavor  of  the  whole.  If  covered  with  an 
earthen  bowl,  i(  will  keep  both  warm  and  moist.  A  clean  towel  or 
napkin  will  answer  if  it  is  to  go  at  once  to  the  table.  Stale  bread 
may  be  used  for  milk-toast ;  sour  bread  may  be  improved  by  toast- 
ing it  through,  but  sweet,  light  bread,  only  a  day  old  or  less,  makes 

ihe  best  toast. 

Breakfast  Toast. 

Add  to  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk  two  tal)le-dpoons  sugar,  a 
Btde  salt  and  a  well-beaten  egg ;  dip  in  this  slices  of  bread  (if  dry, 
let  it  soak'  a  minute),  and  fry  on  a  buttered  griddle  until  it  is  a 
light  brown  on  each  side.  This  is  a  good  way  to  use  dry  bread. — 
Mn.  Dr.  Morey, 

Mennonpte  Toast. 

Beat  up  three  eggs  well,  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  a  pinch  of 
salt;  cut  slices  an  inch  thick  from  a  loaf  of  baker^s  bread,  remove 
cmst,  dip  slices  into  the  eggs  and  milk,  fry  like  doughnuts  in  verg 
hot  hfrd  or  drippings,  till  a  delfcate  brown,  butter  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs,  J.  P.  Rea, 

Bread  Puffs. 
If  the  wheat  bread  is  light  enough  for  the  oven  at  breakfast  time» 
have  ready  some  hot  lard  in  a  deep  kettle ;  with  the  thumb  and  two 
fingers  pull  up  some  of  the  dough  quite  thin,  and  cut  it  some  two 
or  three  inches  in  length ;  as  these  pieces  are  cut,  drop  them  in  the 
lard  and  fry  like  doughnuts.  At  table  they  are  eaten  like  bigcuitf 
they  may  also  be  served  in  a  vegetable  dish  with  a  dressiug  of  hot 
cream,  seasoned  with  pepper  and. salt. — In  the  IStchen. 

Lucy's  Pop-overs. 
Two  tea-cups  sweet  milk,  two  tea-cups  sifted  flour,  heaped  alitde»- 
batter  size  of  a  walnut,  two  eggs,  and^one  table-spoon  sugar,  a  little 
salt;  bake  in  hot  gem-pans,  filled  half  full,  for  twenty  minutes,  and 
serve  immediately.  —Mn.  W.  A.  James,  MankaU, 


86  BBEAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

Pocket-Books. 

Warm  one  quart  new  milk»  add  one  cup  butter  or  lard,  four  table* 
apooiu  sugar,  and  two  weU-beaten  eggs ;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make 
a  moderately  stiff  sponge,  add  a  small  cup  of  yeast,  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise,  wiiich  will  take  three  or  four  hours;  then  mix 
in  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  let  rise  again.  When  weU 
risen,  dissolve  a  lump  of  soda  size  of  a  bean  in  a. spoon  of  milk, 
work  it  into  the  dough  and  roll  into  sheets  one-half  inch  in  thick- 
ness;  spread  with  thin  layer  of  butter,  cut  into  squares,  and  fold 
over,  pocket-book  shape;  put  on  tins  or  in  pans  to  rise  for  a  jUttle 
while,  when  they  will  be  fit  for  the  oven.  In  summer  the  sponge 
can  be  made  up  in  the  morning,  and  rise  in  time  to  make  for  tea» 
In  cool  weather  it  is  best  to  set  it  over  night — Mn.  J.  H.  Shearer, 

Busk. 

Two  tea-cups  raised  dough,  one  tearcup  sugar^  laif  cup  butter, 

two  well-beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  set  to  rise, 

and  when  light,  mold  into  high  biscuit,  and  let  rise  again ;  sift  sugar 

and  cinnamon  over  the  top,  and  place  in  oven. — Mn.  Mary  Lee  Oere, 

Champaign^ 

Busk. 

One  pint  milk,  three  eggs,  one  tea-cup  each  d(  butter  and  sugar, 
and  one  coffee-cup  potato  yeast;  thicken  with  fiour,  and  sponge  over 
night ;  in  the  morning  stir  down,  let  rise,  and  stir  down  again ;  when 
it  rises  make  into  a  loaf,  and  let  rise  again ;  then  roll  out  like  soda 
biscuit,  cut  and  put  in  pans,  and,  when  light,  bake  carefully.  Or 
when  baking  take  four  cups  dough,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  three  eggs;  mix  thoroughly,  adding  enough  flour  to  mold 
easily ;  let  rise,  make  into  rather  high  and  narrow  biscuit^  let  rise 
again,  rub  the  tops  with  a  little  sugar  and  water,  then  sprinkle  over 
them  dry  sugar.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Lebanon  Busk. 
One  cup  mashed  potatoes,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  home-made  yeast, 
three  eggs  ;  mix  together;  when  raised  light,  add  half  cup  butter  or 
lard,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and,  when  quitQ  light,  mold 
into  small  cakes,  and  let  them  rise  again  betbre  baking.  If  wanted 
for  tea,  set  about  nine  a.  m. — Mrs,  J.  S.  Stahr, 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKE&  87 

BiBCurr. 

IKssoIve  one  rounded  table-spoon  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  hot  milk ; 
when  lukewarm  Btir  in  one  quart  of  flour,  add  one  beaten  egg,  a 
little  salt,  and  a  tea-cup  of  yeast ;  work  into  dough  untQ  smooth. 
If  winter,  set  in  a  warm  place ;  if  summer,  in  a  cool  one  to  rise.  In 
tike  morning  work  softlj  and  roll  out  one-half  inch  and  cut  into 
biscuit  and  set  to  rise  for  thirty  minutes,  when  they  will  be  ready 
to  bake.    These  are  delicious. 

BiBCurr. 

Take  one  quart  sifted  flour  (loosely  put  in),  one  measure  each  of 
the  acid  and  soda  (or  two  heaping  teaspoons  acid  and  one  moder- 
ately heaping  teaspoon  soda)  of  Horsford's  Bread  Preparation,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  three  gills  of  water ;  shape  with  a  spoon  and  the 

floured  hand. 

Hard  Tea  Biscuit. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  one-fourth  pound  but(er,  one  salt-spoon  salt, 
three  gills  milk ;  cut  up  the  butter  and  rub  it  in  the  flour,  add  the 
salt  and  milk,  knead  dough  for  half  an  hour,  cut  cakes  about  as 
large  as  a  small  tea-cup,  and  half  an  inch  thick,  prick  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  are  a  delicate  brown. — Mn, 
Dmmeady  ColuTobus, 

High  Biscuit.     ' 

On  baking  da3rs,  reserve  one  small  loaf  and  mix  a  rounded  table- 
spoon butter,  a  level  table-spoon  bugar  and  one  egg  into  it  by  pull- 
ing it  to  peces  with  the  hands;  knead  into  a  loaf,  let  it  rise,  then, 
by  rolling  between  the  hands,  make  into  balls  the  size  of  a  small 
hen's  egg,  place  in  rows  in  very  well  greased  dripping-pan ;  when 
half  full  raise  the  end  that  is  empty  almost  perpendicular,  and  shake 
gently  until  the  balls  slide  compactly  together,  then  add  more,  and 
continue  doing  so  until  the  pan  isfuU;  rub  over  the  top  with  melted 
butter,  let  rise  until  very  light,  and  bake. — Mildred. 

Maple  Biscuit. 

To  the  weU-beaten  yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  add  half  pound  of  powdered 
or  granulated  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  mix  one  tea-epoon 
baking-powder  in  a  (scant)  half  pound  of  sifted  flour,  then  sift  the 


38  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

flour  gentlj  into  the  batter  and  add  flavoring,  bake  in  biscuit  pana, 
spreading  the  hatter  one  and  a  half  to  two  inches  thick  in  the  pan. 
If  rightly  made  it  will  be  very  light.  Do  not  bake  too  &st,  and 
have  the  oven  about  as  for  sponge  cake.  When  cold,  cut  into 
slices  three  inches  long  and  one  inch  wide.  Ice  the  sides,  ends  and 
top  with  white,  pink  and  chocolate  icing.  Dry  in  oven,  and  then, 
if  desired,  the  bottom  may  be  iced.  Build  in  square  blocks  and 
place  on  table.  Serve  a  plate  of  the  white,  one  of  the  pink,  and 
one  of  the  brown,  or  they  may  be  mixed  in  building. — Mrs,  J.  & 
Sperry,  Nashville^  Tenn, 

South  Cabolina  Biscuit. 

One  quart  sweet  cream  or  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  butter  or 
fresh  lard,  two  table-spoons  white  sugar,  one  good  tea-spoon  salt ; 
add  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stifi*  dough,  knead  wdl  and  mold 
into  neat,  small  biscuit  with  the  hands,  as  our  grandmothers  used 
to  do ;  add  one  good  t6a-spoon  cream  tartar  if  preferred ;  bake  well, 
and  you  have  good  sweet  biscuit  that  will  keep  for  weeks  in  a  dry 
place,  and  are  very  nice  for  traveling  lunch.  They  are  such  as  we 
used  to  send  to  the  army,  and  the  "  boys  "  relished  them  "  hugely." — 
Mrs,  Colonel  Moore, 

Soda  Biscuit. 

Put  one  quart  of  flour,  before  sifting,  into  sieve,  with  one  tea- 
spoon soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar  (or  three  of  baking  powder) , 
bne  of  salt,  and  one  table-spoon  white  sugar;  mix  all  thoroughly 
with  the  flour,  run  through  sieve,  rub  in  one  level  table^poqp  of 
Jard  or  butter  (or  half  and  half),  wet  with  half  pint  sweet  milk, 
roll  on  board  about  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and 
hake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.  If  you  have  not  milk,  use 
a  little  more  butter,  and  wet  with  water.  Handle  as  little  and 
make  as  rapidly  as  possible. — M.  Parha. 

Spoon-Biscuit. 

One  quart  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  a  little 
salt,  two  table-spoons  melted  lard,  and  flour  enough  for  a  stifi*  bat- 
ter ;  drop  in  a  hot  gem-pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs,  A.  B. 
Morey, 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES,  39 

Sally  Lunn. 

Sift  into  a  pan  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  put  in  two  ounces  of 
butter  wanned  in  a  pint  of  new  milk,  one  salt-spoon  salt,  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  two  table-spoons  of  good  yeast.  Mix  well  to- 
gether, and  put  the  whole  into  a  tin  pan  well  greased,  and  set  to  rise 
all  night.  Bake  a  little  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Warm  the  milk 
and  batter  over  water  until  the  butter  is  melted ;  beat  the  eggi^  in 
a  two-quart  tin-pail,  and  if  the  milk  is  not  hoi  pour  it  over  them. 
Stir  in  half  the  flour,  then  add  the  yeast,  stirring  thoroughly  with 
the  rest  of  the  flour.  Let  rise  over  night.  Some  add  two  table- 
spoons sugar  and  use  a  tea-spoon  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar 
instead  of  the  yeast. — Rhoda,  BaUsviUe,  Va. 

Tea  Cake. 

One  quart  flour,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  one-half 
pound  lard,  one-half  pound  chopped  raisins  or  currants ;  roll  two 
inches  thick  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  split  open,  butter,  and  eat 
while  hot. — Mrs.  Canby 

Breakfast  Rolls. 

Mix  the  dough  in  the  evening,  according  to  directions  in  the  recipe 
for  "  Bread  Raised  Once ;"  add  a  table-spoon  of  butter,  and  set  where 
it  will  be  a  little  warm  until  morning ;  cut  ofl*  pieces,  and  carefully 
shape  them  into  rolls  of  the  desired  size  by  rolling  them  between  the 
hands,  but  do  not  knead  them ;  dip  the  sides  of  each  into  drawn 
butter  when  they  are  shaped,  and  place  them  in  the  baking-pan 
(the  butter  prevents  their  sticking  together  when  baked,  and  they 
will  be  smooth  and  perfect  when  separated).  Rub  them  over  the 
top  with  drawn  butter,  and  dust  a  litUe  fine  salt  over  the  top ;  set 
b  a  warm  place,  and  they  will  quickly  rise  ready  for  baking.  These 
are  delicious.  ^ 

Long  Breakfast  Rolls. 

Three  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter  and  lard 
mixed  in  equal  proportions,  one  cup  potato  yeast,  flour  enough  to 
make  into  dough.  Let  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  one 
beaten  egg.  Enead  thoroughly,  and  let  rise  again.  With  the 
hands,  make  into  balls    as  large  as  a  small  hen's  egg ;   then  roll 


4D  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

between  the  hands  to  make  long  rolls  (about  three  inches),  place 

dose  together  in  even  rows  in  the  pans.    Let  rise  until  light,  and 

bake  delicately. 

Coffee  Rolls. 

Work  into  a  quart  of  bread  dough  a  rounded  table-spoon  of  but- 
ter, and  a  half  tea-cup  of  white  sugar;  add  some  dried  currants 
(well  washed  and  dried  in  the  oven),  sift  some  flour  and  sugar  over 
them,  work  into  the  other  ingredients,  make  into  small  rolls,  dip 
into  melted  butter,  place  in  tins,  let  rise  a  short  time,  and  bake. 

DiNKEB  OB  French  Rolls. 

Make  dough  as  directed  in  recipe  for  ''Long  Break&st  Rolls," 
make  into  balls  as  large  as  a  medium-sized  hen's  egg,  place  on  a 
well-floured  board,  flour  a  small  rolling-pin  (three^juarters  of  an 
inch  in  diameter),  press  down  so  as  nearly  to  divide  each  ball  of 
dough  in  the  center,  place  in  baking-pans  so  as  not  to  touch  each 
other,  grease  the  space  made  by  the  rolling  pin  with  melted  butter, 
let  rise  until  light,  and  bake.  These  rolls  are  so  small  and  bake  so 
quickly,  that  they  have  the  delicious  sweet  taste  of  the  wheat. 
Some  grease  the  hands  with  butter  while  making  the  rolls.  Bread 
dough,  by  adding  the  other  ingredients,  may  be  used  for  these  rolls. 

EoG  Rolls. 

Two  tea^sups  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  three  and  a  half 

scant  cups  of  sifted  flour.    Bake  in  hot  gem-pans. — Mrs.  L.  S.  IF., 

Jamettowiij  N.  Y, 

Every-Day  Rolus. 

Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough  ou  baking  day,  when  molded  out 
the  last  time,  about  enough  for  a  small  loaf,  spread  out  a  little,  add 
0!ie  eggy  two  table-spoons  of  sugar,  and  three-fourths  cup  of  lard ; 
add  a  little  flour  and  a  smaM  tea-spoon  soda  if  the  least  bit  sour ; 
mix  well,  let  rise,  mold  into  rolls  or  biscuits,  set  to  rise  again,  and 
they  will  be  ready  for  the  oven  in  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 

French  Rolls. 

Peel  six  medium-sized  mealy  potatoes,  boil  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  press  and  drain  both  potatoes  and  water  through  a  colander; 
when  cool   enough  so  as  not  to  scald,  add  flour  to  make  a  thick 


BBEAKFA8T  AND  TEA  CAKES.  41 

batter,  beat  well,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  one-half  cup  potato 
yeast  Make  this  sponge  early  in  the  morning,  and  when  light  turn 
into  a  bread  pan,  add  a  tea-spoon  salt,  half  cup  lard,  and  flour 
enough  for  a  sofk  dough ;  mix  up,  and  set  in  a  warm,  even  tempera- 
ture; when  risen,  knead  down  and  place  again  to  rise,  repeating 
this  process  five  or  six  times ;  cut  in  small  pieces  and  mold  on  the 
bread-board  in  rolls  about  one  inch  thick  by  five  long;  roll  in 
melted  butter  or  sweet  lard,  and  place  in  well-greased  baking  paiis 
(nine  inches  long  by  five  wide  and  two  and  a  half  in  depfli,  makes  a 
convenien1>sized  pan,  which  holds  fifteen  of  these  rolb;  or,  if  twice 
the  width,  put  in  two  rows);  press  the  rolls  closely  together,  so  that 
they  will  only  be  about  half  an  inch  in  width.  Let  rise  a  short 
tune  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  if  the  top  browns  too 
rapidly,  cover  with  paper.  These  rolls,  if  properly  made,  are  very 
white,  light  and  tender. 

Or,  make  rolls  larger,  and  just  before  putting  them  in  the  oven, 
cut  deeply  across  each  one  with  a  sharp  knife.  This  will  make  the 
cleft  roll,  so  famous  among  French  cooks. 

Italian  Roll& 
A  pound  of  bread  dough,  quarter-oound  softened  butter:  work 
the  butter  well  into  the  dough,  and  roll  out  about  half  an  inch 
thick;  cut  into  strips  nearly  an  inch  wide  and  seven  or  eight 
Incnes  long ;  sin;  over  tnem  nne  com  meai,  piace  xnem  apars  on  a 
buttered  pan,  and  when  light  bake  in  a  quick  oveiL — In  ihe  KUdiaiL 

Marylaio)  Bolls. 
Bub  one-half  table-spoon  of  lard  into  one  quart  of  flour,  make  a 
well  in  the  middle,  put  in  one-half  cup  baker's  yeast — or  one  cup 
of  home-made — two  tea-spoons  sugar,  one-half  pint  cold  boiled  milk  ; 
do  not  stir,  but  kt  stand  over  night ;  iu  the  morning  knead  well, 
after  dinner  knead  again,  cut  out,  put  in  pans,  and  let  rise  until  tea 
time.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Judge  Wi 

Pakker  House  Bolls. 
Bub  one-half  table-spoon  of  butter,  and  one-half  tablespoon  of 
lard  into  two  quarts  of  sifted  flour;  into  a  well  in  the  middle  pour 
one  pmt  of  cold  boiled  milk,  and  add  one-half  cup  of  yeast,  one-half 


42  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  If  wanted  for  tea,  rub  the  flour  and 
butter,  and  boil  the  milk,  and  cool  it  the  night  before ;  add  sugar, 
yeast  and  salt,  and  turn  all  into  the  flour,  but  do  not  stir.  Let 
stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  stir  up,  knead,  and  let  rise  till 
near  tea-time;  mold  and  let  rise  again,  and  bake  quickly.  To 
mold,  cut  with  cake-cutter ;  put  a  little  melted  butter  on  one-half 
and  lap  nearly  over  on  the  other  half.  Place  them  in  the  pan 
about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  apart. — Mrs.  V,  G.  Hu^,  Minne- 
apolis, Minn. 

Wedding  Sandwich  Rolls. 

Late  in  the  evening  make  a  rather  stifl*  potato  sponge  (see  direc- 
tions under  ^*  Bread-Making"),  and  in  the  morning  mix  in  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  a  soft  dough,  knead  well,  and  place  to  rise; 
when  sufficiently  light,  knead  down  again,  repeating  the  operation 
two  or  three  times,  remembering  not  to  let  the  dough  become  sour 
by  rising  too  light ;  mold  into  common-sized  loaves,  place  in  your 
dripping-pan  to  rise,  and  bake  very  carefully,  so  as  to  secure  the 
veiy  slightest  brown  crust  possible.  On  taking  out  of  the  oven,  roll 
■  in  a  cloth  tightly  wrung  out  of  water,  with  a  large  bread-blanket 
folded  and  wrapped  around  all.  Let  cool  three  or  four  hours,  cut 
lengthwise  of  the  loaf  (not  using  the  outside  piece),  first  spreading 
lightly  with  good  sweet  butter,  then  cutting  in  slices  not  more  than 
a  quarter  of  an  inch,  or  jast  as  thin  as  possible,  using  for  this  pur- 
pose a  very  thin,  sharp  knife ;  lay  on  cold  boiled  ham  cut  in  very 
thin  shavings  (no  matter  if  in  small  pieces),  roll  up  very  slowly  and 
carefully,  and  place  where  it  will  not  unroll.  Treat  each  sandwich 
in  the  same  manner,  always  spreading  the  bread  with  butter  before 
cutting.  If  by  chance  the  bread  is  baked  with  too  hard  a  crust,  cut 
off^a  thin  shaving  of  the  brownest  part  very  smoothly  before  making 
into  sandwiches.  These  sandwiches  are  truly  delicious  if  properly 
made,  but  they  require  great  care,  experience,  and  good  judgment 
Served  on  an  oblong  platter,  piled  in  pyramid  style,  row  upon  row, 
they  will  resemble  nicely  rolled  dinner  napkins.  They  must  be 
made  and  served  the  same  day. — Mrs,  James  W.  Robinson. 

Winter  RoLifi. 
Put  three  quarts  of  flour  into  a  large  crock  or  jar,  scald  one  quart 
of  buttermilk,  add  one  cup  of  lard,  and  pour  all  over  the  flour. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  43 

beatiog  it  up  well ;  then  add  one  quart  of  cold  water,  stir  and  add 

one-balf  cup  of  potato  yeast,  or  one  cup  of  brewer's ;  beat  in  well 

and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night.     In  the  morning  add 

salt  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  dough ;  set  in  a 

warm  place  to  rise,  and,  when  risen,  knead  down  and  set  to  rise 

again.    This  time  knead  down  and  place  in  a  large  stone  crock  or 

bowl,  covered  tightly  with  a  tin  pan  to  prevent  the  surface  from 

drying,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.     When  needed,  turn  out  on  a 

bread-board,  cut  off  a  piece  as  large  as  you  wish  to  use,  roll  out  to 

the  thickness  of  ordinary  soda  biscuit,  cut,  and  put  in  the  oven  to  bake 

immediately.     Set  away  the  rest  of  the  dough  as  before,  and  it  will 

keep  a  week  in  winter,  and  is  very  convenient  for  hot  break&st-rolls. — 

Mrs,  D.  Buxton, 

Vienna  Rolls. 

Have  ready  in  a  bowl  a  table-spoon  of  butter  or  lard,  made  soft 

by  warming  a  little,  and  stirring  with  a  spoon.     Add  to  one  quart 

of  unsifted  flour  two  heaping  tea-spoons  baking  powder ;  mix  and 

sift  thoroughly  together,  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  butter.     Take 

more  or  less  sweet  milk  as  may  be  necessary  to  form  a  dough  of 

usual  sdflhess,  according  to  the  flour  (about  three-fourths  of  a  pint), 

put  into  the  milk  half  a  tea-spoon  of  salt,  and  then  stir  it  into  the 

flour,  etc.,  with  a  spoon,  forming  the  dough,  which  turn  out  on  a 

board  and  knead  sufficiently  to  make  smooth.     Boll  out  half  an  inch 

tnfck,  and  cut  witn  a  large  rouna  cutter ;  loia  eacn  one  over  to  lorm 

a  half  round,  wetting  a  little  between  the  folds  to  make  them  stick 

together ;  place  on  buttered  pans,  so  as  not  to  touch,  wash  over  on 

top  with  milk  to  give  them  a  gloss,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  hot 

oven  about  twenty  minutes.     It  will  do  them  no  harm  to  stand  half 

an  hour  before  baking,  if  it  is  desired. 

Cracknelus. 
To  one  pint  of  rich  milk  put  two  ounces  butter  and  spoon  of 
yeast.     Make  it  warm,  and  mix  enough  fine  flour  to  make  a  light 
dough ;  roll  thin  and  cut  in  long  pieces,  two  inches  broad.     Prick 
well,  and  bake  in  slow  oven. — Effie  A,  Adams,  Qyincy,  Ills. 

Engush  CnuMPETa 
One  quart  warm  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  cup. yeast,  flour 
enough  for  a  not  very  stiff  batter.     When  light  add  half  a  cup 


44  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES, 

melted  butter,  kt  stand  twenty  minutes,  and  bake  in  muffin  ringi 
or  cupi. — Mn.  O.  W.  M. 

Wheaten  Gemb. 

Mix  one  tea-spoon  baking-powder  and  a  little  salt  into  one  pint 
flour ;  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  one  tea-cup  sweet  milk 
or  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  (melted)  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  the 
flour  with  baking-powder  and  salt  mixed,  and  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  two  eggs.  Beat  well,  bake  immediately  in  gem-pans  in  a  hot 
oren,  and  take  out  and  send  to  the  table  immediately. — ilfrs.  Oik 

Wheat  Muffiks. 

Mix  one  pint  milk,  two  eggs,  three  table-spoons  yeast,  and  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  let  rise  four 
or  five  hours  and  bake  in  muffin-nngs  in  a  hot  oven,  for  about  ten 
minutes.  This  recipe  may  be  made  with  Graham  flour,  by  adding 
two  table-spoons  of  molasses,  and  is  excellent. — Mn,  O,  W,  MarehanL 

Waffles. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  a  tea-spoon  of  salt,  a  table-spoon  of 
melted  butter,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  one  measure  each  of  acid 
and  soda  (or  two  heaping  tea-spoons  acid  and  one  moderately  heap- 
ing tea-spoon  soda)  of  Horsford's  Bread  Preparation ;  stir  well,  and 
bake  at  once  in  waffle-irons. 

r  Quick  Waffles. 

Two  pints  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter  (melted),  sifted  flour  to 
make  a  soft  batter ;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  then  the 
beaten  whites,  and  lastly  (just  before  baking)  four  tea-spoons  baking- 
powder,  beating  very  hard  and  &st  for  a  few  minutes.  These  are 
very  good  with  four  or  five  eggs,  but  much  better  with  more. — Mn, 

a  W.  Morey. 

Raised  Waffles. 

One  quart  flour,  one  pint  sweet,  luke-warm  milk,  two  eggs,  a 
able-spoon  melted  butter,  tea-spoon  salt,  half  tea-cup  good  yeasL  — 
Mrs.  L.  S.  WUlidon,  Heiddburg,  Oermany, 


\ 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  45 

Bics  Wawlds. 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  rioe  and  let  it  get  cold,  mix  with  it  one-fourth 
pound  butter  and  a  little  ealt  Sift  in  it  one  and  a  half  pints  flour, 
beat  five  eggs  separatelj,  stir  the  jolks  together  with  one  quart 
Kiilk,  add  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  frothy  beat  hard,  and  bake  at  onoe 
in  waffle-iron. — ^Jfrs.  &  (X  Lu^  Balimoret  Md. 

Sweet  Wafers. 

One  pint  flour,  one  tea-cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  table-spoon 
butter,  flavor  with  lemon,  mix  into  a  batter  same  as  for  cake,  and 
bake  in  wafer-irons. 

*  French  Crackers. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  each  of  flour  and  sugar,  three-fourths 
pound  butter,  whites  of  five  eggs ;  before  cooking  wash  over  with 
egg  and  dip  in  sugar. 

Egg  Crackers. 

Six  eggs,  twelve  table-spoons  sweet  milk,  six  table-spoons  butter, 
half  tea-spoon  soda;  mold  with  flour  half  an  hour,  and  roll  thin. — 
Ifri.  X  8.  Robimaru 

Corn  Dodgers. 

To  one  quart  com  meal  add  a  little  salt  and  a  small  table-spoon 
lard ;  scald  with  boiling  water  and  beat  hard  for  a  few  minutes ; 
drop  a  large  spoonful  in  a  well-greased  pan.  The  batter  should  be 
thick  enough  to  just  flatten  on  the  bottom,  leaving  them  quite  high 
in  the  center.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Corn  Muffins. 

One  quart  sifted  Indian  meal,  a  heaping  tea-spoon  butter,  one 
quart  milk,  a  salt-spoon  salt,  a  third  cup  yeast,  a  table-spoon  of 
molasses;  let  it  rise  four  or  five  hours,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings. — 
Jfr«.  G.  W.  Marduxni,  Buffalo,  K  F. 

Corn  Roli^s. 

One  pint  of  com  meal,  two  table-spoons  sugar,  one  tea-spoon 
salt,  one  pint  boiling  milk ;  stir  all  together  and  let  stand  till  cool. 
Add  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  bake  in  gem-pans. — Mrs.  Capt.  J.  P. 
Bea,  AfinnecBpolis,  Minn. 


46  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  OAKESL 

COBV  MXTBH. 

Put  four  quarts  fresh  water  in  a  kettle  to  boil,  salt  to  suit  the 
taste ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  stir  in  one  and  one-half  quarts  meal, 
letting  it  sift  through  the'  lingers  slowly  to  prevent  lumps,  adding 
it  a  little  &ster  at  the  last,  until  as  thick  as  can  be  oonvenientlj 
stirred  with  one  hand ;  set  in  the  oven  in  the  kettle  (or  take  out  into 
a  pan),  bake  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  thoroughly  cooked.  It  takes 
corn-meal  so  long  to  cook  thoroughly  that  it  is  very  difficult  to  boil 
it  until  done  without  burning.  Excellent  for  frying  when  cold. 
Use  a  hard  wood  paddle,  two  feet  long,  with  a  blade  two  inches 
wide  and  seven  inches  long,  to  stir  with.  The  thorough  cooking  and 
baking  in  oven  afterwards,  takes  away  all  the  raw  taste  that  mush 
18  apt  to  have,  and  adds  much  to  its  sweetness  and  delicious  flavor. — 
Mm  a.  W.  8.,  NoAviUcy  Tenn. 

Alabama  ^'Boe  Cake." 

One  pint  corn-meal,  one-half  tablenspoonful  salt,  and  cold  water 
to  make  a  stiff  batter;  beat  well;  sprinkle  a  hot  griddle  with  meal, 
let  brown;  then  spread  *'hoe  cake"  half  an  inch  thick,  let  brown 
on  both  sides.     Oood  for  dyspeptics. — Mrs.  Sperry,  NashviUe^  Tenn. 

Alabama  Johnny  Cake. 

Cook  a  pint  of  rice  till  tender,  add  a  table-spoon  butter;  when 
oold  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  one  pint  meal,  and  when  mixed  spread 
on  an  oaken  board  and  bake  by  tipping  the  board  up  before  the  fire- 
place. Whenr  done  on  one  side  turn  over.  The  dough  should  be 
q>read  half  an  inch  thick. — Mrs.  Young,  Ala. 

Aunt  Jennie's  Johnny  Cake. 
One  cup  each  sweet  milk  and  buttermilk,  one  tea-spoon  each  salt 
and  soda,  one  table-spoon  melted  butter.  Mix  with  enough  meal 
to  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick.  Spread  on  a  clean,  sweet 
board,  set  before  fire  at  an  angle  that  will  prevent  cake  slipping  off, 
until  it  hardens,  then  stand  upright.     Baste  often  with  butter  until 

nicely  crisped. 

Good  Graham  Gems. 

Three  cups  sour  milk,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  one  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoon brown  sugar,  one  of  melted  lard,  one  beaten  egg;  to  the  egg 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES,  47 

ttdd  the  milky  then  the  sugar  and  salt,  then  the  Graham  flour  (with 
the  Boda  mixed  in),  together  with  the  lard;  make  a  stiiT  batter,  so 
that  it  will  drop,  not  pour,  from  the  spoon.  Have  gem -pans  very 
hot,  grease,  fill,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — Mm.  J,  H.  S. 

Mrs.  Buxton's  Gbaham  Gems. 
Take  one  egg  and  beat  well,  add  pinch  of  salt,  one  quart  butter- 
milk or  sour  milk,  and  Graham  flour  enough  to  make  a  stifi*  batter : 
add  one  heaping  tea-spoon  soda  and  stir  thoroughly  with  a  spoon  ; 
heat  and  grease  gem-irons,  and  after  dipping  the  spoon  in  cold 
water,  drop  a  spoonful  of  batter  in  each  pan,  repeating  until  all 
are  filled ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  half  an  hour.     This  measure  will 

make  a  dozen. 

SwEET-MiLK  Gems. 

Beat  one  egg  well,  add  a  pint  new  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  Graham 
flour  until  it  will  drop  ofi*  the  spoon  nicely ;  heat  and  butter  the 
gem-pans  before  dropping  in  the  dough ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twentj 
minutes. — Mn.  R.  L.  Partridge. 

Graham  Muffins. 
Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  table-spoons  brown  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
cue  tea-spoon  soda,  sufficient  Graham  flour  to  make  moderately  stiff. 
If  not  convenient  to  use  sour  milk,  use  sweet,  adding  cream  of 
tartar. — Mn,  H.  B.  Sierman. 

Graham  Mush. 
Sift  meal  slowly  into  boiling  salted  water,  stirring  briskly  until 
it  is  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  with  one  hand ;  serve  with  milk  or 
cream  and  sugar,  or  butter  and  syrup.  It  is  much  improved  by 
removing  from  the  kettle  to  a  pan  as  soon  as  thoroughly  mixed, 
and  steaming  for  three  or  four  hours.  It  may  also  be  eaten  cold. 
or  sliced  and  firied  like  com  mush. 

Oat-Meal  Mush. 
To  two  quarts  boiling  water,  well  salted,  add  one  and  a  half  cups 
best  oat  meal  (Irish,  Scotch,  Canadian  or  Akron  are  best) ;  stir  in 
meal  by  degrees,  and  after  stirring  up  a  few  times  to  prevent  its 
Bettling  down  in  a  mass  at  the  bottom,  leave  it  to  cook  three  hours 
vrithout  stirring.    While  stirring  in  meal  put  inner  kettle  directly  on 


46  BREAKFAST  AlfD  TEA  (JAKES. 

•love.  (Cook  in  a  custard-kettle  with  water  in  outer  kettle).  To 
oook  for  break&st  it  may  be  put  on  over  night,  allowing  it  tu  boil 
an  hour  or  two  in  the  evening,  but  it  is  better  when  ireshly  cooked. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  This  is  unsurpassed  as  a  break&st- 
dishy  especially  for  growing  children,  who  need  bone  and  muscle- 
producing  food.  To  be  wholesome  it  must  be  weU  cooked^  and  not 
the  pasty,  half-cooked  mass  usually  served  at  boarding-houses. 
There  are  a  fow  persons  with  very  delicate  digestive  powers,  who 
should  eat  oat-meal  o\\\y  when  thoroughly  pearled,  as  the  outer 
husks  of  the  grain  irritate  the  coatings  of  the  stomach.  In  lieu 
of  a  custard-kettle  the  mush  may  be  made  in  a  pan  or  small  tin 
bucket,  and  then  placed  in  a  steamer  and  steamed  two  hours. 

Steamed  Oat-Meal. 

To  one  tea-cup  oat-meal  add  one  quart  cold  water,  teaspoon  salt, 
put  in  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  and  steam  one  hour  and 
a  half  after  meal  begins  to  cook. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Two  quarts  salted  water  to  two  cups  best  white  winter  wheat; 
boil  two  or  three  hours  in  a  custard-kettle:  Or,  soak  overnight  and 
boil  at  least  three-fourths  of  an  hour:  Or,  put  boiling  water  in  a  pan 
or  small  tin  bucket,  set  on  stove,  stir  in  wheat,  set  in  steamer  and 
steam  four  hours :  Or,  make  a  strong  sack  of  thick  muslin  or  drilling, 
moisten  wneat  with  cold  water,  add  a  little  salt,  place  in  sack,  leav- 
ing half  the  space  for  wheat  to  swell  in.  Fit  a -round  sheet  of  tin, 
perforated  with  holes  half  an  inch  in  diameter,  to  the  inside  of 
ordinary  kettle,  so  that  it  will  rest  two  or  three  inches  from  th^ 
bottom;  lay  sack  on  the  tin,  put  in  water  enough  to  reach  tin,  and 
boil  from  three  to  four  hours,  supplying  water  as  it  evaporates. 
Serve  with  butter  and  syrup,  or  cream  and  sugar.  When  cold,  slice 
and  fry ;  or  warm  with  a  little  milk  and  salt  in  a  pan  greased  with 
a  little  butter;  or  make  in  griddle-cakes  with  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk, 
and  a  little  flour,  and  pinch  of  salt. 

Fine  White  Homint'^r  Grits. 

Take  two  cups  to  two  quarts  salted  water,  soak  over  night,  and 
boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  custard  kettle;  serve  with  milk 
and  sugar,  or  when  cold  slice  and  fry. 


FRITTERS.  49 


FEITTERS. 


Make  frittera  quickly  and  beat  thoroughly.  A  good  rale  for 
them  18  two  eggs,  one  half-pint  milk,  one  tea-spoon  salt,  and  two 
eups  flour;  have  the  lard  in  which  to  cook  them  nice  and  sweet  and 
hot.  Clarified  &t  boils  at  about  five  hundred  degrees — more  than 
double  the  heat  of  boiling  water — and  fat  actually  boiling  will  burn 
to  a  cinder  any  thing  that  is  dropped  into  it.  The  proper  cooking 
heat  is  three  hundred  and  seventy-five  degrees,  and  is  indicated  by 
a  Uue  smoke  arising  from  the  surface  of  the  fat.  When  this  point 
is  reached,  the  fat  may  be  held  at  that  degree  of  heat,  and  pre- 
vented from  burning  by  dropping  into  it  a  peeled  potato  or  a  piece 
of  hard  bread,  which  furnishes  something  for  the  &,t  to  act  on. 
The  heat  may  also  be  tested  by  dropping  in  a  teanspoon  of  the  bat- 
ter ;  if  the  temperature  is  right  it  will  quickly  rise  in  a  light  ball 
with  a  splutter,  and  soon  brown ;  take  up  carefully  the  moment  they 
are  done,  with  a  wire  spoon ;  drain  in  a  hot  colander,  and  sift  pow- 
dered sugar  over  them;  serve  hot.  Pork  fritters  are  made  by 
dipping  thin  bits  of  breakfast-bacon  or  fat  pork  in  the  batter:  fruit 
firitters  by  chopping  any  kind  of  fresh  or  canned  fruit  fine  and  mix- 
ing it  with  batter,  or  by  dipping  quarters  or  halves  in  batter.  The 
fruit  may  be  improved  in  flavor  by  sprinkling  sugar  and  grated 
-lemon  peel  over  it,  and  allowing  it  to  remain  two  or  three  hours, 
after  which  drain  and  dip  as  above.  Batters  for  fritters  should  be 
made  an  hour  before  using,  as  the  grains  of  flour  swell  by  standing 
after  being  moistened,  and  thus  become  lighter.  Add  the  whites 
of  eggs  just  before  frying.  It  is  better  not  to  use  sugar  in  batter, 
as  it  tends  to  make  it  heavy.     Sprinkle  over  them  in  the  dish  when 

just  ready  to  serve. 

At.at^ama  Rice  Fbittebs. 

Four  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  pint  milk,  one  cup  boiled  rice, 
three  tea-spoons  baking-powder  in  one  quart  flour;  make  into  a 
batter;  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  lard.  Sauce:  One  pound 
of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  water,  stick  of  cinnamon ;  boil  until 
clear. — **Riiik  Royal"  AUaiita,  Ga. 


50  FRITTERS. 

Apfle  Fritters. 

Make  a  batter  in  proportion  of  one  cup  sweet  milk  to  two  cupe 
flour,  a  heaping  tea-spoon  baking  powder,  two  eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately, one  tablespoon  sugar,  and  salt-spoon  salt ;  heat  the  milk 
a  little  more  than  milk- warm,  add  slowly  to  the  beaten  yolks  and 
sugar,  then  add  flour  and  whites  of  eggs;  stir  all  together,  and 
throw  in  thin  slices  of  good  sour  apples,  dipping  the  batter  up 
over  them;  drop  in  boiling  lard  in  large  spoonfuls  with  piece  of 
apple  in  each,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Serve  with  maple  syrup 
or  a  nice  syrup  made  of  sugar. — Mrs.  James  Henderson, 

Clam  Fritters. 
Take  raw  clams,  chopped  fine,  and  make  a  batter  with  juice,  an 
equal  quantity  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs  to  each  pint  of  liquid,  and 
flour  sufficient  to  stiflen ;  fry  like  other  fritters. — Mrs.  H.  B.  S, 

Corn  Oysters. 
To  one  quart  grated  com  add  three  eggs  and  three  or  four  grated 
crackers,  beat  well  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  have  ready  in 
skillet  butter  and  lard  or  beef-drippings  in  equal  proportions,  liot 
but  not  scorching;  drop  in  little  cakes  about  the  size  of  an  oyster 
(for  this  purpose  using  a  tea-spoon);  when  brown  turn  and  fry 
on  the  other  side,  watx;hing  constantly  for  fear  of  burning.  If  the 
flit  is  just  the  right  heat,  the  oysters  will  be  light  and  delicious, 
but  if  not,  heavy  and  **  soggy."  Serve  hot  and  keep  dish  well  cov- 
ered. It  is  better  to  beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stifl"  froth  and  add 
just  before  frying. — Mrs.  V.  G.  Husky  Afirmeapolis,  Minn. 

Cream  Fritters. 
One  and  a  half  pmts  flour,  one  pint  milk,  six  well-beaten  eggs, 
one-half  nutmeg,'  two  tea-spoons   salt,   one  pint   cream ;   stir  the 
whole  enough  to  mix  the  cream ;  fry  in  small  cakes. — Mrs.  M.  K.  P. 

Lemon  Fritters. 
One-fourth  pound  of  eggs,  one-half  pound  flour,  one-fourth 
pound  sugar  (pulverized) ;  beat  the  yolks  well,  add  the  flour  and 
enough  fresh  mOk  to  make  a  stifl*  batter  (about  a  gill  of  milk) ; 
beat  the  whites  stiff*  with  the  sugar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  some 
of  the  yellow  peel  grated  off,  or  a  spoon  of  extract  of  lemon. 


OBIDDLE-CAKES,  51 

When  ready  to  cook  beat  the  whites  well  into  the  batter  and  pro- 
ceed to  cook.  Have  plenty  of  good  lard,  heated  slowly ;  just  as  it 
ieffins  to  rnnoke,  after  bubbling,  drop  in  by  spoonfuls  enough  fritters 
to  fill  the  vessel  without  crowding.  The  cold  batter  will  lower  the 
temperature  of  the  &X  sufficiently  to  keep  it  at  proper  cooking 
heat.  The  fritters  will  begin  to  brown  very  quickly,  and  should  be 
tamed  with  a  wire  spoon.  If  they  begin  to  color  dark  brown 
check  the  heat  immediately.  If  these  directions  are  followed  ai  - 
cnrately,  they  may  be  lifted  from  the  fat  and  laid  upon  a  napkin  or 
folded  paper  comparatively  free  from  grease.  Dust  the  fritters 
well  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  if  agreeable.  For  supper  eat  them  so, 
but  for  dinner  some  nice  sauce  should  be  served.  Some  persons 
substitute  honey  or  maple  syrup  for  sauce.  Fritters  bear  a  bad 
reputation,  but  when  properly  made,  and  eaten  occasionally  for  a 
change,  are  quite  as  wholesome  as  many  of  the  messes  recommended 

as  food  for  dyspeptics. 

Vanities. 

Beat  two  eggs,  stir  in  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  half  tea-spoon 
rose-water,  add  sifted  flour  till  just  thick  enough  to  roll  out,  cut 
with  a  cake-cutter,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard.  Sift  powdered 
sugar  on  them  while  hot,  and  when  cool  put  a  tea-spoon  of  jelly  in 
the  center  of  each  one.  Nice  for  tea  or  dessert. — Mrs,  D.  C.  Hat- 
TUkgUnif 


GRIDDLE-CAKES. 


Griddle-cakes  should  be  well  beaten  when  first  made,  and  are 
much  lighter  when  the  eggs  are  separated,  whipfMng  the  yolks  to 
a  thick  cream,  and  adding  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stifiT  froth  just 
before  baking.  Some  never  stir  buckwheat  cakes  after  they  have 
risen,  but  take  them  out  carefully  with  a  large  spoon,  placing 
the  spoon  when  emptied  in  a  saucer,  and  not  back  again  into  the 
batter.  In  baking  griddle-cakes  have  the  griddle  clean,  and,  if  the 
cakes  stick,  sprinkle  on  salt  and  rub  with  a  coarse  cloth  before 
greasing.     Some  prefer  griddles  made  of  soap-stone,  which  need  no 


62  QBIDDLE-CAKBS. 

greasing,  lliej  need  to  be  very  hot,  but  greasing  spoils  theot. 
Thej  are  more  ooetly  and  more  easily  broken  than  iron.  Iron 
griddles,  if  properly  cared  for,  need  washing  but  seldom.  Imme- 
diately after  use  they  should  be  carefully  wiped  and  put  away  out 
of  the  dust,  never  to  be  used  for  any  other  purpose.  Never  turn 
griddle-cakes  the  second  time  while  baking,  as  it  makes  then 
heavy,  and  serve  the  same  side  up  as  when  taken  from  griddles. 


Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Buckwheat  flour,  when  properly  ground,  is  perfectly  free  from 
grits.  The  grain  should  be  run  through  the  smutter  with  a  strong 
blast  before  grinding,  and  the  greatest  care  taken  through  the 
whole  process.  Adulteration  with  rye  or  corn  cheapens  the  flour, 
but  injures  the  quality.  The  pure  buckwheat  is  best,  and  is  un- 
surpassed for  griddle-cakes.  To  make  batter,  warm  one  pint  sweet 
milk  and  one  pint  water  (one  may  be  cold  and  the  other  boiling) ; 
put  lialf  this  mixture  in  a  stone  crock,  add  five  tea-cups  buckwheat 
flour,  beat  well  until  smooth,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  water, 
and  last  a  tearcup  of  yeast.  Or,  the  same  ingredients  and  propor- 
tions may  be  used  except  adding  two  table-spoons  of  molasses  or 
sugar,  and  using  one  quart  of  water  instead  of  one  pint  each  of 
milk  and  water. — Miss  S.  A,  Melehing. 

HoBSFOBJD  Buckwheat  Cakes. 
ilGx  "  over  night,"  with  warm  water,  a  little  salt,  and  a  table- 
spoon molasses,  one  pint  buckwheat  flour,  to  the  usual  consistency 
of  griddle-cakes.  When  ready  to  bake  for  breakfast,  add  one  mieas* 
ure  each  of  acid  and  soda  (or  two  heaping  tea-spoons  acid  and  one 
moderately  heaping  tea-spoon  soda)  of  Horsford's  Bread  Prepara- 
tion— thinning  the  batter  if  necessary — and  bake  immediately  on  a 

hot  griddle. 

French  Pancakes. 

Beat  together  till  smooth  six  eggs  and  half  a  pound  of  flour,  melt 
four  ounces  butter  and  add  to  the  batter,  with  one  ounce  of  sugar 
and'half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Put  a  table-spoon 
at  a  time  into  a  hot  frying-pan  slightly  greased,  spreading  the  batter 
evenly  over  the  sur&ce  of  the  pan  by  tipping  it  about,  fiy  to  a  light 


ORIPDLE^CAKES,  68 

brown,  spread  with  jelly,  roll  it  up^  dust  it  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  serve  hot. — Mrt.  C.»  MurfreaborOj  TemL 

Beaur£Oabd  Batter  Gaebb. 
Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  each  of  flour  and  sour  milk,  three 
eggs  beaten  separatdj,  a  table-spoon  of  butter,  and  two  level  tea^ 
spoons  soda.  Pulverize  the  soda  very  fine  before  measuring,  then 
thoroughly  mix  with  the  flour.  Add  whites  of  eggs  just  before 
baking  on  the  griddle.  Sweet  milk  may  be  used  (with  the  other 
ingredients  in  same  quantity)  with  Horsford's  Bread  Preparation, 
one  measure  each  of  soda  and  acid,  which  must  be  thoroughly 
mixed  with  the  flour.     These  may  also  be  made  without  ^gs. 

Cabouka  Flapjacks. 

One  quart  boiling  milk,  two  cups  white  Indian  meal,  one  small 
cup  flour,  one  table-spooii  each  butter  and  brown  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  hot  milk,  one  teanspoon  salt,  two  eggs ;  scald 
meal  with  the  hot  milk,  cool  a  little,  and  add  butter  and  sugar,  and 
let  stand  until  morning,  covered  closely;  then  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
salt  and  flour.  If  batter  is  too  thick,  thin  with  cold  milk  before 
adding  soda,  and,  last,  lightly  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites. — Jfrs. 
David  Anderwn,  OuirlegUm,  8.  0. 

Crumb  Griddle  Cakes. 

The  night  before  using  put  some  bread  crumbs  to  soak  in  one 
quart  of  sour  milk;  in  the  morning  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  add 
four  well-beaten  eggs,  two  tea-spoons  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
one  table-spoon  melted  butter,  and  enough  corn-meal  to  make  them 
the  consistency  of  ordinary  griddle-cakes.  It  is  better  to  beat  yolks 
and  whites  separately,  stirring  the  whites  lightly  in  just  before 
baking. — Mrs,  H.  SeoviUey  New  Orleans, 

Flannel  Cakes. 

Make  hot  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  into  it  put  two  heaping  table- 
spoons butter,  let  melt,  then  add  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs — ^placing  the  whites  in  a  cold  place — ^a 
tea-spoon  of  salt,  four  table-spoons  potato  yeast,  and  sufiicient  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter;  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  let  stand  three 


54  YEAST. , 

hours  or  over  night ;  before  baking  add  the  beaten  whites ;  fry  like 

anj  other  griddle-cakes.     Be  sure  to  make  batter  just  stiff  enough, 

for  flour  must  not  be  added  in  the  morning  unless  it  is  allowed  to 

rise  again. 

Graham  Oriddle-Cakes. 

One  quart  Graham  flour,  one  tea-spoon  baking  powder,  three 
eggs,  '^ud  milk  or  water  enough  to  make  thin  batter. 

Indian  Pancakes.    . 

One  pint  Indian  meal,  one  tea-spoon  salt,  small  tea-spoon  soda; 
pour  on  boiling  water  until  a  little  thinner  than  mush;  let  stand 
until  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  flour  in  which 
is  mixed  two  teanspoons  cream  tartar ;  stir  in  as  much  sweet  milk  or 
water  as  will  make  the  batter  suitable  to  bake;  beat  the  whites 
well,  and  add  just  before  baking. — Mrs,  W.  W.  Woodi. 

Rice  Gbiddle-Cakes. 

Boil  half  a  cup  rice ;  when  cold  mix  one  quart  sweet  milk,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  flour  suflicient  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  beat 
the  whites  to  a  froth,  stir  in  one  tea-spoon  soda,  and  two  of  cream 
tartar ;  add  a  little  salt,  anvi  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs;  bake  on  a 
griddle.  A  nice  way  to  serve  is  to  spread  them  while  hot  with  but- 
ter, and  almost  any  kind  of  preserves  or  jelly ;  roll  them  up  neatly, 
cut  off  the  ends,  sprinkle  them  with  ?ugar,  and  serve  immediately. 
— JIfrs.  WaJtter  AStcheU^  OaUipalis. ' 


W0»* 


TEAST. 


The  best  is  potato  yeast,  because  bread  made  witk  it  is  moister^ 
and  there  is  no  danger  of  injuring  the  flavor  of  the  bread  by  ap 
excess  of  yeast.  Dry  yeast  should  be  made  in  May  or  June  for 
summer  use,  and  in  October  for  winter  use.  In  hot  and  damp 
weather,  dry  yeast  sometimes  loses  its  vitality ;  however,  many  use 
it  on  account  of  its  convenience,  since  there  is  no  danger  of  it9 
aouring  in  summer  or  freezing  in  winter.    Soft  hop  or  potato  yeast 


YEAST.  56 

will  keep  in  a  cool  place  one  or  two  weeks  in  warm  weather,  and  in 
cold  weather  five  or  six  weeks,  care  being  taken  that  it  does  not 
freeise.  Never  add  soda  to  yeast;  if  it  becomes  sour  it  will  do  to 
start  fresh  yeast,  but  will  never  make  good  bread.  Make  yeast  in 
a  bright  tin  pan,  kept  for  this  purpose  alone.  When  it  is  risen 
sufficiently,  a  thick  white  scum  rises  to  the  top.  Keep  in  a  stone 
jar  with  a  close-fitting  cover,  or  in  a  jug,  on  the  cellar  bottom,  or 
in  ice-chest,  or  in  some  other  cool  place.  Always  shake  the  jug 
before  taking  out  yeast  for  use.  Leave  cork  loose  for  first  twelve 
hours.  Extreme  heat  or  freezing  kills  the  plant;  which  grows  while 
fermentation  goes  on.  The  jar  or  jug,  when  emptied,  should  be 
washed  first  in  cold  water,  then  in  soap  and  water,  and  aflerward 
in  hot  water,  which  may  be  allowed  to  stand  a  half  hour,  when 
pour  out  Let  jar  cool,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  cork  or  cover 
needs  the  same  careful  attention.  Many  times  the  yeast  is  spoiled 
by  want  of  care  and  neatness  in  washing  the  yeast  jar.  Keep  hops 
in  a  paper  sack  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  One  pint  of  potato  yeast, 
one  tea-cup  of  hop  yeast,  a  piece  of  compressed  yeast  size  of  a 
walnut,  and  one  yeast  cake,  or  two-thirds  of  a  tea-cup  of  yeast 
crumbs,  are  equal  in  strength. 

« 

Dry  Yeast. 

Boil  two  large  potafees  and  a  handful  of  hops  (the  latter  in  a 
bag)  in  three  pints  water ;  when  done,  take  out  potatoes,  mash  well, 
add  one  pint  flour,  and  pour  boiling  hot  water  over  all;  beat  well 
together,  adding  one  table-spoon  salt,  one  of  ginger,  and  one-half 
cup  sugar ;  when  luke-warm  add  one  cup  good  yeast  and  let  stand 
two  days  (or  only  one  day,  if  very  warm  weather),  stirring  down 
frequently ;  add  good  white  corn  meal  until  thick  enough  to  make 
into  cakes  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness;  place  to  dry  in  the 
shade  (never  expose  to  the  sun  or  to  stove  heat)  where  the  air  will 
pass  freely,  so  as  to  dry  them  as  soon  as  possible,  as  the  fermentation 
goes  on  as  long  as  there  is  any  moisture ;  turn  the  cakes  frequently, 
breaking  them  up  somewhat,  or  even  crumbling,  so  they  will  dry 
out  evenly  and  quickly ;  when  thoroughly  dried  put  in  a  paper  sack, 
and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  A  small  cake  will  make  a  sponge  suffi- 
cient  to  bake  five  or  six  ordinary  loaves. — Mrs^  E.  T.  Canon. 


56  YEAST. 

Farmkrb'  Yeabt. 

A  jeast  which  is  especially  good  for  the  use  of  fiurmers,  and 
others  who  use  a  great  deal  of  bread  and  bake  frequently,  is  made 
as  follows:  Take  a  handful  of  unpressed  or  two  ounces  of  pressed 
hops  (those  showing  the  pollen  dust  are  best),  put  them  in  one  quart 
of  water,  with  four  ordinary  potatoes,  and  boil  till  the  potatoes  are 
well  cooked ;  mash  all  together,  and  strain  through  a  linen  strainer, 
add  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  a  tea-spoon  salt,  a  table- 
spoon pulverized  ginger  and  half  a  cup  sugar ;  set  it  back  on  the 
fire  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly,  and  set  by  to  cool ; 
when  only  milk  warm  add  a  cup  of  old  yeast,  or  two  cakes  grocers' 
dry  hop  yeast,  or  half  a  cup  bakers'.  This  will  be  light  in  two  or 
three  hours.  The  yeast  may  be  made  perpetual,  by  saving  a  cup 
when  started,  but  it  must  be  kept  from  freezing  in  winter  and  in  a 
cool  place  in  summer.  This  is  a  good  mode,  and  acceptable  to  all 
who  prefer  yeast  bread. — ifr«.  H.  Young, 

Hop  Yeast. 

Place  a  handful  of  hops  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  boil  slowly 
for  a  half-  hour,  strain  boiling  hot  on  one  pint  flour  and  one  table- 
spoon salt  (gradually  at  first  in  order  to  mix  smoothly) ;  when  luke- 
warm add  a  half  pint  of  yeast,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  light,  cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  plac^ — Mn.  M.  J.  TFoocfa. 

Potato  Yeast  without  Hops. 

Four  good-sized  potatoes  peeled,  boiled  and  mashed,  four  table- 
spoons white  sugar,  one  of  ginger,  one  of  salt,  two  cups  flour;  pour 
over  this  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  beat  till  all  the  lumps  disap- 
pear. After  it  has  cooled,  add  to  it  one  cup  good  yeast,  and  set 
away  to  rise ;  when  risen  put  in  glass  or  stone  jar,  cover  and  set 
away  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs,  Oeorge  H.  Rugt, 

Potato  Yeast. 
Boil  one  cup  hops  in  a  sack  in  two  quarts  water  for  fifteen  minutes; 
remove  sack  with  hops,  add  immediately  after  grating  (to  prevent 
their  darkening)  five  good-sized  Irish  potatoes,  peeled  and  grated 
raw,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  table-spoon  salt,  and  one  of  ginger ; 
stir  occasionally  and  cook  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  and  it  will  boil 


TEaST.  57 

op  thick  like  starch ;  turn  into  a  jar,  and  when  just  tepid  in  sum- 
mer, or  quite  warm  in  winter,  add  one-half  pint  good  yeast  (always 
save  some  to  start  with) ;  set  jar  in  a  large  tin  pan,  and  as  often  as 
it  rises  stir  down  until  fermentation  ceases,  when  it  will  be  quite 
thin.  Cover  closely,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place,  and  it  will  keep 
two  weeks.  When  yeast  smells  sour  but  does  not  taste  sour  it  is 
still  good ;  if  it  has  no  smell  it  is  dead.  One  cup  will  make  six 
good-sized  loaves. — Mrs.  D.  BuxUm. 

Potato  Yeabt. 

Take  as  many  hops  as  can  be  grasped  in  the  hand  twice,  put  one- 
half  gallon  water  over  them  in  a  new  coffee-pot  kept  for  that  pur- 
pose, boil  slowly  for  one  hour.  Do  not  tie  them  in  a  cloth  to  boil, 
as  that  keeps  the  pollen  (an  important  rising  property)  out  of  the 
yeast  Pare  and  grate  half  a  dozen  large  potatoes  into  a  two  gallon 
stone  crock,  add  a  half  cup  sugar,  table-spoon  each  of  salt  and 
ginger,  pour  over  this  a  half  gallon  of  the  boiling  hop- water,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  When  milk-warm,  add  one  cup  of  good  lively 
yeast,  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  rises,  and  remove  to  the  cellar  or 
some  other  cool  place.  The  boiling  hop-water  must  be  added  to  po- 
tatoes imTnediately  or  they  will  darken,  and  darken  the  yeast.  A 
good  way  to  prevent  the  potatoes  from  darkening  is  to  grate  them 
into  a  pan  half  filled  witn  cold  water.  As  grated  the  potatoes  sink 
to  the  bottom ;  when  done  grating,  pour  off  the  water  ai^d  add  'the 
boiling  hop-water.  This  is  an  excellent  recipe,  and  the  method 
given  for  boiling  hops  is  especially  recommended. 

•  Yeast. 

Pare  and  boil  four  ordinary-sized  potatoes,  boiling  at  the  same 
time  in  a  separate  vessel  a  good  handful  of  hops.  When  the  pota- 
toes are  done,  mash  fine  and  add,  after  straining,  the  water  in  which 
the  hops  were  boiled ;  put  into  this  one  cup  white  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  salt,  and  add  sufficient  water  to  make  one  gallon ;  when 
cold  add  one  cup  of  good  yeast,  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  a  few 
hours  until  it  will ''  sing"  on  being  stirred,  when  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Keep  covered  in  a  cellar  or  cool  place. — Mrs.  C.  M. 


58  YEAST. 

Yeast  without  Yeabt. 

This  requires  no  yeast  to  raise  it,  and  has  been  called  the  ''best 
yeast  in  the  world/'  Monday  morning,  boil  one  pint  hops  in  two 
gallons  water  for  half  an  hour,  strain  into  a  crock  and  let  the  liquid 
become  lukewarm,  add  two  even  tea-spoons  salt  and  half  a  pint 
best  brown  sugar ;  mix  half  a  pint  flour  smooth  with  some  of  the 
liquor,  and  stir  all  well  together.  On  Wednesday,  add  three  pounds 
potiitoes  boiled  and  mashed,  stir  well  and  let  stand  till  Thursday, 
then  straiu  and  put  in  stone-jugs,  but  for  the  first  day  or  two  leave 
the  corks  quite  loose.  Stir  the  yeast  occasionally  while  making, 
and  keep  near  the  fire.  It  should  be  made  two  weeks  before  using, 
aud  will  keep  any  length  of  time,  improving  with  age.  Keep  it  in 
a  cool  place,  and  shake  the  jug  before  pouring  from  it,  but  with 
the  cork  out,  holding  the  palm  of  the  hand  over  the  mouth  to  pre- 
vent the  escape  of  the  yeast. 

Yahoo  Yeast. 

Take  a  table-spoonful  and  a  half  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  and 
add  to  it  the  same  quantity  of  warm  water.  Stir  in  enough  flour 
to  make  a  thin  batter;  set  it  in  a  warm  place — ^not  hot — ^and  it  will 
soon  begin  to  throw  up  bubbles  on  the  top,  and  in  a  short  time  fer- 
ment. Meanwhile,  have  all  ready  to  make  the  yeast  as  soon  as  the 
batter  begins  to  work.  Put  a  tea-cup  of  hops  into  a  clean  porce- 
lain kettle,  and  add  two  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Set  over  the  fire, 
and  boil  steadily  twenty  minutes.  Strain  it,  after  boiling,  into  a 
clean  dish.  Stir  in  a  pint  of  flour  and  a  table-spoonful  of  salt.  Be 
sure  and  stir  it  free  from  lumps.  Set  again  over  the  fire,  stirring 
constantly,  until  it  boils  up  and  thickens.  If  to«  thick  after  it 
boils  up,  pour  in  boiling  water  till  it  is  about  the  consistency  of 
good  starch.  Then  pour  back  into  the  bowl,  cover  over  till  milk- 
warm,  then  stir  in  the  ''  risings"  made  of  molasses,  flour  and  water. 
Set  where  it  will  be  kept  warm  until  it  has  risen  and  is  quite  light* 
Then  put  into  a  jug,  cork,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  use. — Mrs. 
Oarkson,  Bath  Co.,  Ky, 


CAKE-MAKING. 


"  Let  all  things  be  done  decently  and  in  order/'  and  the  first  to 
pat  in  order  when  you  ace  going  to  bake  is  yourself.  Secure  the 
hair  in  a  net  or  other  covering,  to  prevent  any  from  falling,  and 
brush  the  shoulders  and  back  to  be  sure  none  are  lodged  there  that 
might  blow  off;  make  the  hands  and  finger  nails  clean,  roll  the 
sleeves  up  above  the  elbows,  and  put  on  a  large,  clean  apron.  Clean 
the  kitchen  table  of  utensils  and  every  thing  not  needed,  and  pro- 
vide  every  thing  that  will  be  needed  until  the  cake  is  baked,  not 
forgetting  even  the  broom-splints  previously  picked  ofi*  the  new 
broom  and  laid  away  carefully  in  a  little  box.  (A  kifitting-needle 
may  be  kept  for  testing  cake  instead  of  splints.)  If  it  is  warm- 
weather,  place  the  eggs  in  cold  water,  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes, 
as  they  will  then  make  finer  froth ;  and  be  sure  they  are  fresh,  as 
they  will  not  make  a  stiff*  froth  from  any  amount  of  beating  if  old. 
The  cake-tin»  should  be  prepared  -before  the  qake^  when  baking 
powder  is  used,  as  it  effervesces  but  once,  and  there  should  be  no 
delay  in  baking,  as  the  mixture  should  be  made  firm  by  the  heat, 
while  the  efervescing  process  is  going  on.  Grease  the  pans  with 
ftesh  lard,  which  is  much  better  than  butter ;  line  the  bottom  with 
paper,  using  six  or  eight  thicknesses  if  the  cake  is  large,  and  greas- 
ing the  top  one  well.  (In  some  ovens,  however,  fewer  thicknesses 
of  paper  would  be  needed  on  the  bottom,  and  in  some  the  sides 
ak>  should  be  lined  with  one  or  two  thicknesses.)  Sift  flour  and  sugar 
(if  not  pulverized),  and  measure  or  weigh.     Firkin  or  very  salt  but* 

IS©) 


60  OAKE-MAKINQ. 

tat  should  be  cut  in  bits  and  washed  to  freshen  a  little;  if  verj 
hard,  warm  carefully,  but  in  no  case  allow  any  of  it  to  melt.  Good 
butter  must  be  used,  as  the  heat  develops  any  latent  bad  qualities. 
Use  pulverized  sugar  for  all  delicate  cakes;  for  rich  cakes  coffee- 
crushed,  powdered  and  sifted;  for  dark  cakes,  the  best  brown 
sugars  are  best;  for  jelly-cakes,  light  fruitK^akes,  etc.,  granulated 
and  coffee  ''A"  are  best  and  most  economical.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
eggs  thoroughly,  and  strain ;  set  the  whites  away  in  a  cool  place 
'Until  the  cake  is  ready  for  them,  then  beat  them  vigorously  iu  a  cool 
room,  till  they  will  remain  ki  the  dish  when  turned  upside  down. 
Sift  a  part  of  the  measured  flour  with  the  baking-powder  or  soda 
and  cream  tartar  through  a  hand-sieve  (which  should  be  among  the 
utensils  of  every  housekeeper),  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  rest  of 
the  flour.  In  using  new  flour  for  either  bread  or  cake-making,  it 
can  be  * 'ripened"  for  use  by  placing  the  quantity  intended  for  bak- 
ing in  the  hot  sun  for  a  few  hours,  or  before  the  kitchen  fire.  In 
using  milk,  note  this:  that  sour  milk  makes  a  spongy,  light  cake ; 
sweet  milk,  one  that  cuts  like  pound  cake ;  remembering  that  with 
sour  milk  soda  alone  is  used,  while  with  sweet  milk  baking  powder 
or  soda  and  cream  tartar  are  to  be  added. 

Having  thus  gathered  the  material,  cut  butter  (in  cold  weather) 
into  small  pieces,  and  warm,  not  melt;  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to 
a  cream,  add  the  milk  in  smal]  quantities  (never  use  fresh  and  stale 
milk  in  same  cake),  next  the  yolks  of  eggs,  then  a  part  of  the  flour, 
then  a  part  of  the  whites,  and  so  on  until  the  whole  is  used ;  lastly, 
add  the  flavoring.  Many  good  cake-makers  first  stir  the  milk  and 
flavoring  into  the  creiimed  butter  and  sugar,  then  the  yolks,  next 
the  whites,  and  lastly  the  flour,  first  taking  about  two-thirds  of  it 
and  thoroughly  niixia*^  the  baking  powder  through  it;  the  re> 
raainder  of  the  flour  is  then  left  to  be  used  at  discretion.  A  little 
more  or  less  flour  may  be  needed,  according  to  the  climate,  or  to 
the  kind  of  flour  used,  as  the  "  New  Process"  flour  requires  one* 
eighth  less  than  other  brands.  There  is  great  "  knack"  in  beating 
cake;  don't  stir,  but  beat  thoroughly,  bringing  the  batter  up  from  the 
bottom  of  the  dish  at  every  stroke ;  in  this  way  the  air  is  driven  into 
the  cells  of  the  batter,  instead  of  out  of  them — but  the  cells  will  be 
finer  if  beaten  more  slowly  at  the  last,  remembering  that  the  motion 


CAKE-MAKJNO.  61 

liioiild  alivays  be  upwarcL     In  winter  it  is  easier  to  beat  with  the 
hand,  but  in  summer  a  wooden  spoon  is  better.      An  iron  spoon 
turns  the  mixture  dark.     Never  beat  a  cake  in  tin,  but  use  earthen 
or  stoneware.     Unskillful  mixing,  too  rapid  or  unequal  baking,  or  a 
sudden  decrease  in  heat  before  it  is  quite  done,  will  cause  streaks  in 
the  cake.     Always  bake  a  small  cake  first,  fill  a  patty  pan,  or  cover 
to  a  baking-powder  can,  one-third  full,  and  bake ;  then  add  more 
or  leas  flour  as  required.'    If  the  cake  is  hard  and  solid,  it  needs  a 
few  tea-spoons  of  milk;  if  more  flour  is  Deeded  it  will  &11  in  the 
middle  and  be  spongy  and  crumbly..     Powdered  sugar  may   be 
sifted  on  the  top  of  any  cake  while  it  is  a  little  warm;   if  it  dis- 
solves add  more,  when  it  is  cold,  keep  some  for  that  purpose  in  a 
since  box  with  a  perforated  top.     The  white  portion  of  orange  or 
lemon-peel  should  never  be  used ;  grate  only  the  yellow.    When 
recipes  call  for  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  baking  powder  may  be 
used  by  taking  the  same  quantity  as  required  of  both,  or  Horsford's 
Bread  Preparation  will  be  found  excellent     *'Milk"  always  means 
noeet  milk.     ''A  cup"  always  means  a  tea  cup,  not  a  cofiee  cup. 
Sour  milk  may  always  be  used  instead  of  sweet,  by  using  soda  only. 
The  proportions  of  rising-powder  to  one  quart  of  flour  are  three  tea- 
spoons baking-powder,  or  one  teanspoon  soda  and  two  tea-spoons 
cream  tartar,  or  one  measure  each  of  Horsford's  Bread  Preparation, 
or  one  pint  sour  milk  and  one  level  tea-spoon  soda. 

Fruit  Cake. 
Most  ladies  think  fruit  cake  quite  incomplete  without  wine  or 
brandy,  but  it  can  be  made  equally  good  on  strictly  temperance 
principles,  by  substituting  one-third  of  a  cup  of  molasses  for  a  wine- 
glass of  brandy.  The  objection  to  the  use  of  liquor  in  sauces  does 
not,  however,  hold  good  against  that  used  in  cake-making,  as  the 
alcohol  is  converted  to  vapor  by  the  heat  and  passes  off  with  the 
other  gases.  There  are  many,  however,  who  object  to  the  use  of 
.  liquors  in  any  way,  and  to  keeping  them  in  the  house,  and  such 
will  find  the  above  an  excellent  and  cheap  substitute. 

Baisins  should  never  be  washed,  as  it  is  difi^cult  to  dry  out  the 
moisture  absorbed  by  them,  and  every  particle  of  moisture  retained 
tends  to  make  the  cake  heavy.  To  remove  the  stems  and  ex« 
traneous  matter,  place  the  raisins  in  a  coarse  towel  and  rub  them  in 


62  CAKE-MAKING. 

this  untQ  as  dean  as  rubbing  will  make  them ;  then  pick  over  care- 
fully, remove  any  stems  or  other  defects  which  may  be  left.  The 
raisins  should  be  prepared  before  the  cake,  and  added  the  last  thing 
before  putting  in  the  oven,  as,  being  heavy,  they  sink  to  the  bottom 
if  allowed  to  stand.  To  seed,  clip  with  the  scissors,  or  cut  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Do  not  chop  too  fine ;  if  for  light  fruit  cake,  seeding 
is  all  that  is  necessary.  Slice  the  citron  thin,  and  do  not  have  the 
pieces  too  large,  or  they  will  cause  the  cake  to  break  apart  in  cut- 
ting. Currants  should  be  kept  prepared  for  use  as  follows :  Wash 
in  warm  water,  rubbing  well,  pour  off  water,  and  repeat  until  the 
water  is  clear;  drain  them  in  a  sieve,  spread  on  a  cloth  and  rub 
dry;  pick  out  bad  ones,  dry  carefully  in  a  cool  oven  or  in  the 
''heater"  (or  in  the  sun  and  wind,  with  a  thin  gauze  over  them  to 
keep  off  flies,  insects  and  dust),  and  set  away  for  use.  When  the 
fruit  is  all  mixed,  cream  the  butter  and  sugar — this  is  very  im- 
portant in  all  cakes — ^add  the  spices,  molasses,  or  liquors,  then  the 
milk  (if  any  used),  next  the  eggs  well  beaten,  adding  whites  with 
the  flour,  as  previously  directed.  Always  beat  whites  and  yolks 
separately  if  many  eggs  are  used,  but  if  only  a  few,  it  is  just  as  well 
to  beat  both  together.  Next  add  the  flour  (which  in  making  black 
fruit  cake  may  be  browned),  prepared  with  baking  powder  or  soda 
and  cream  tartar,  then  the  flavoring  (lemon  and  vanilla,  in  equal 
parts,  make  the  best  flavoring),  and  lastly  the  fruit  dredged  with  a 
very  little  flour.  Some  prefer  to  mix  the  fruit  with  all  the  flour. 
When  but  little  fruit  is  used  it  may  be  dropped  into  the  dough  after 
it  is  in  the  pan,  and  pushed  just  beneath  the  surface,  which  pre- 
vents it  from  settling  to  the  bottom.  The  batter  for  fruit  cake 
should  be  quite  stiff. 

In  making  very  large  cakes  that  require  three  or  four  hours  to 
Imke,  an  excellent  way  for  lining  the  pan  is  the  following:  Fit  three 
pa|)ers  carefully,  grease  thoroughly,  make  a  paste  of  equal  parts 
Graham  and  fine  flour,  wet  with  water  just  stiff  enough  to  spread 
easily  with  a  spoon,  place  the  first  paper  in  the  pan  with  the  greased 
side  down,  and  spread  the  paste  evenly  over  the  paper  about  as 
thick  as  pie-crust.  In  covering  the  sides  of  the  pan,  use  a  little 
paste  to  stick  a  portion  of  the  paper  to  the  top  of  the  jmn  to  keep  it 
from  slipping  out  of  place,  press  the  second  paper  carefully  into  ^ts 


CAKE-MAKIXO.  63 

place,  with  the  greased  side  up,  and  next  put  in  the  third  paper  as 
jou  would  into  any  baking-pan,  and  pour  in  the  cake.  Earthen 
pans  are  used  by  some,  as  they  do  not  heat  so  quickly  and  are  less 
liable  to  bum  the  cake. 

When  using  a  milk -pan  or  pans,  without  stems,  a  glass  bottle  filled 
with  shot  to  give  it  weight,  and  greased,  may  be  placed  in  the  center 
of  the  pan,  or  a  stem  may  be  made  of  paste-board,  rolled  up,  but 
the  latter  is  more  troublesome  to  keep  in  place.  The  cake  is  apt  to 
bum  around  the  edges  before  it  is  done  unless  there  is  a  tube  in  the 
center. 

All  exoept  layer  cakes  should  be  covered  with  a  paper  cap,  (or  a 
sheet  of  brown  paper,  which  the  careful  housewife  will  save  from 
ber  grocers'  packages),  when  first  put  into  the  oven.  Take  a  square 
of  brown  paper  large  enough  to  cover  well  the  cake  pan,  cut  off  the 
comers,  and  lay  a  plait  on  four  sides,  fastening  each  with  a  pin  so 
as  to  fit  nicely  over  the  pan.  This  will  throw  it  up  in  the  center, 
80  that  the  cover  will  not  touch  the  cake.  Save  the  cap,  as  it  can  be 
used  several  times. 

Before  commencing,  clean  out  the  stove,  take  off  the  lids  and  brush 
inside,  rake  it  out  underneath^  get  all  the  ashes  out  of  the  comers, 
have  the  best  of  fuel  at  hand.  Don't  build  a  baking  fire  before  it 
is  needed,  have  it  only  moderate,  and  add  the  extra  fuel  in  time  to 
get  it  nicely  burning. 

THE  OVEN. 

Too  much  care  can  not  be  given  to  the  preparation  of  the  oven, 
which  is  oftener  too  hot  than  too  cool ;  however,  an  oven  too  cold 
At  first  will  ruin  any  cake.  Cake  should  rise  and  begin  to  bake 
before  browning  much,  large  cakes  requiring  a  good,  steady,  solid 
heat,  about  such  as  for  baking  bread ;  layer  cakes,  a  brisk  hot  fire, 
M  they  must  be  baked  quickly.  A  good  plan  is  to  fill  the  stove 
with  hard  wood  (ash  is  the  best  for  baking),  let  it  burn  until  thei'O 
18  a  good  body  of  heat,  and  then  turn  damper  so  as  to  throw  the 
beat  to  the  bottom  of  oven  for  fully  ten  minutes  before  the  cake  is 
put  in.  In  this  way  a  steady  heat  to  start  with  is  secured.  Gener- 
^J  it  is  better  to  close  the  hearth  when  the  cake  is  put  in,  as  this 
stops  the  draft  and  makes  a  more  regular  heat.  Keep  adding  wood 
in  amall  quantities,  for  if  the  heat  becomes  slack  the  cake  will  be 


64  CAKE-MAKINQ. 

heavy.  Great  care  must  be  taken,  for  some  stoves  need  to  have  the 
dampers  changed  every  now  and  then,  but  as  a  rule  more  heat  ia 
needed  at  the  bottom  of  the  oven  than  at  the  top.  Many  test  their 
ovens  in  this  way :  if  the  hand  can  be  held  in  from  twenty  to  thirty- 
five  seconds  (or  while  counting  twenty  or  thirty-five),  it  is  a  '*  quick  * 
oven,  from  thirty-five  to  forty-five  seconds  is  '*  moderate,"  and  from 
forty-five  to  sixty  seconds  is  "  slow."  Sixty  seconds  is  a  good  oven 
to  begin  with  for  large  fruit  cakes.  All  systematic  housekeepers 
will  hail  the  day  when  some  enterprising,  practical  ''Dixie"  girl 
shall  invent  a  stove  or  range  with  a  thermometer  attached  to  the 
oven,  BO  that  the  heat  may  be  regulated  accurately  and  intelligently. 
If  necessary  to  move  the  cake  while  baking,  do  it  very  gently.  Do 
not  open  the  oven  door  until  the  cake  has  had  time  to  form,  and 
do  not  open  it  oftener  than  necessary,  then  be  careful  to  close  it 
quickly  and  gently,  so  as  not  to  jar  the  cake.  Be  sure  the  outside 
door  of  the  kitchen  is  closed  so  that  no  cold  air  may  strike  it.  If 
the  oven  bakes  too  hard  on  the  bottom,  place  the  grate  under  the 
pan ;  if  too  hot  on  top,  set  a  pie-pan  of  water  on  the  top  grate.  If 
one  side  bakes  fester  than  the  other,  turn  wfry  gently.  Be  careful 
not  to  remove  from  the  oven  until  done ;  test  thorfmghly  before  re- 
moving, for  if  the  cooler  air  strikes  it  before  it  is  done,  it  is  certain 
to  fall.  Allow  about  thirty  minutes  for  each  inch  of  thickness  in 
a  quick  oven,  and  more  time  in  a  slow  one.  Test  with  a  broom- 
.  splint  or  knitting-needle,  and  if  the  dough  does  not  adhere,  it  is 
done.  Settling  away  from  the  pan  a  little,  and  stopping  its  "  sing- 
ing/' are  other  indications  that  the  cake  is  ready  to  leave  the  oven. 
When  removed,  set  the  cake,  while  in  the  pan,  on  an  inverted  sieve 
to  cool ;  this  secures  a  free  circulation  of  air  all  round  it,  and  cools 
it  evenly.  It  should  remain  in  the  pan  at  least  fifiieen  minutes  after 
taking  from  the  oven,  and  it  is  better  to  leave  the  '*cap"  on  until 
the  cake  is  carefully  removed  from  the  pan  and  set  away,  alioa/tfg 
right  side  up.  A  tin  chest  or  stone  jar  is  best  to  keep  it  in.  Cofiee 
cake  should  be  put  away  before  it  is  cold,  and  so  closely  wrapped 
in  a  large  napkin  that  the  aroma  will  not  be  lost. 

Sponge  aSd  White  Gak£3. 
The  good  quality  of  all  delicate  cake,  and  especially  of  spongi^ 
cake,  depends  very  much  upon  its  being  made  with  fresh  eggs.  It  caiL 


CAKE-MAKINO.  65 

aerer  be  perfect  unless  pulverized  sugar  is  used.    It  must  be  quickly 

put  together^  beaten  with  rapidity,  and  baked  in  a  rather  quick 

OYen.    It  is  made  ''sticky"  and  less  light  by  being  stirred  long. 

There  is  no  other  cake  so  dependent  upon  care  and  good  judgment 

in  baking  as  sponge-cake.     In  making  white  cake,  if  not  convenient 

to  096  the  yolks  that  are  left,  they  will  keep  for  several  days  if 

Aorcvghly  beaten  and  set  in  a  cool  place.     The  whites  of  eggs,  when 

not  used,  must  not  be  beaten,  but  will  keep  for  several  days  if  set  iu 

a  oool  place.     The  white  or  yolk  of  a  medium-sized  egg  weighs  one 

ounce,  a  fact  that  it  is  convenient  to  know,  as  sometimes  the  white 

or  yolk  of  one  or  more  eggs  is  wanted  from  several  that  have  been 

put  away  together.     Whenever  it  is  necessary  to  cut  a  cake  while 

warm,  do  it  with  a  toarm  knife.     To  prepare  cocoa-nut,  cut  a  hole 

through  the  meat  at  one  of  the  holes  in  the  end,  draw  off  the  milk, 

pound  the  nut  well  on  all  sides  to  loosen  the  meat,  crack,  take  out 

meat,  and  set  the  pieces  in  the  heater  or  in  a  cool,  open  oven  over 

night,  or  for  a  few  hours,  to  dry,  then  grate ;  if  all  is  not  used, 

sprinkle  with  sugar  (after  grating)  and  spread  out  in  a  cool,  dry 

place,  and  it  will  keep  for  weeks. 

Angel's  Food. 
Use  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  a  half  tumbler  of  sifted 

granulated  sugar,  one  tumbler  sifted  flour,  one  tea-spoon  of  vanilla, 

one  tea-spoon  of  cream  tartar;  sift  the  flour  four  times,  then  add 

the  cream  tartar  and  sift  again — but  measure  it  before  putting  in  the 

cream  of  tartar — sift  the  sugar  and  measure  it ;  beat  the  eggs  to  a  . 

stiff  froth  on  a  large  platter ;  on  the  same  platter  add  the  sugar 

lightly,  then  the  flour  very  gently,  then  the  vanilla;  do  not  stop 

beating  until  you  put  it  in  the  pan  to  bake.     Bake  forty  minutes 

in  a  moderate  oven,  try  with  a  straw  and  if  too  soft  let  it  remain  a 

few  minutes  longer.     Do  not  open  the  oven  until  the  cake  has  been 

in  fifteen  minutes.    Turn  the  pan  upside  down  to  oool,  and  when 

cold,  take  out  by  loosening  around  the  sides  with  a  knife,  and  then 

ice ;  nse  a  pan  that  has  never  been  greased.     The  tumbler  for  meas* 

unng  must  hold  two  and  one-fourth  gills.     The  pans  have  feet 

IciNo. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  twd  tea-cups  granulated  sugar; 

boil  the  su^r  until  clear  with  just  enough  water  to  moisten  iL 

Baring  beaten  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  boiling  syrup  veij 
5 


66  CAKE-MAKING. 

dowlj  over  them.  Dissolve  one-half  tea-spoon  of  citric  acid  in  a 
small  table-spoon  of  water,  and  put  enough  in  to  make  a  pleasant 
tart — add  a  little  essence  of  lemon. 

BuFOBD  Cake. 
One  cap  butter,  two  of  white  sugar,  four  of  sifted  flour,  five  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  cup  sour  milk,  tea-spoon  soda,  pound  seeded 
raisins  chopped  a  little ;  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add 
^be  yolks  and  milk,  and  stir  in  the  flour  with  soda  well  mixed 
1;hrough  it ;  then  add  the  white  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stifl*  froth, 
and  lastly  the  raisins  dredged  with  a  little  flour ;  bake  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Use  coflee-cups  to  measure.  This  makes  a  cake  for  a 
six  quart  pan. — 

Almond,  Hickory-nut  or  Cocoa-nxtt  Cake. 
One  pound  flour,  half  tea-spoon  salt,  fourth  pound  butter,  pound 
of  sugar,  tea-cup  sour  cream,  four  eggs,  lemon  flavor  to  taste,  and 
a  tea-spoon  soda  dissolved  in  two  tea-spoons  hot  water;  mix  all 
thoroughly,  grate  in  the  white  part  of  a  cocoa-nut,  or  stir  in  a  pint 
of  chopped  hickory-nuts,  or  a  pint  of  blanched  almonds  pounded. 
— Mrs.  J.  W.  Ghrujbbs,  Richmond. 

Black  Cake. 
One  pound  powdered  white  sugar,  three-quarters  pound  butter, 
pound  sifted  flour  (brown  or  not  as  preferred),  twelve  eggs  beaten 
separately,  two  pounds  raisins  stoned  and  part  of  them  chopped, 
two  of  currants  carefully  cleaned,  half  pound  citron  cut  in  strips, 
quarter  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves  mixed,  wine- 
glass wine  and  one  of  brandy ;  rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  add 
yolks  of  eggs,  part  of  flour,  the  spice,  and  whites  of  eggs  wel] 
beat«n ;  then  add  remainder  of  flour,  and  wine  and  brandy ;  mix 
all  thoroughly  together;  cover  bottom  and  sides  of  a  four-quart 
milk-pau  with  buttered  white  paper,  put  in  a  layer  of  the  mixture, 
then  a  layer  of  the  fruit  (first  dredging  the  fruit  with  flour),  until 
pan  is  filled  up  three  or  four  inches.  A  small  cup  of  Orleans  mO' 
lasses  makes  the  cake  blacker  and  more  moist,  but  for  this  it  is  not 
necessary  to  add  more  flour.  Bake  three  aifd  one-half  or  four 
hours  in  a  slow  oven.  This  is  excellent. — Mrs.  M.  M.  Munsell,  DeU 
a/ware. 


CAKE-MAKINQ.  67 

Black  Cake. 

One  pound  flour,  one  of  currants,  one  of  raisins,  one  of  sugar, 
half  pound  citron,  half  pound  chopped  figs,  three-fourths  pound 
butter,  ten  eggs,  leaving  out  two  ^vhites,  tea-cup  molasses,  one  of 
sour  cream  and  soda,  one  gill  brandy  or  good  whisky,  half  cup  cin- 
namon, two  table-spoons  allspice  and  doves,  four  table-spoons  jam. 
— Fnun  an  old  Virginia  housekeeper. 

Black.  Cake. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter,  six  eggs, 
beaten  separately,  three  cups  flour  (brown  the  flour),  two  table- 
spoons molasses,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoon  mace,  one  of  cloves, 
two  cups  sweet  milk,  two  pounds  raisins,  two  of  currants,  a  half 
pound  citron,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar.  Bake  three 
houis. — Mrs.  OurtUf  St.  LouiSy  Mo. 

Blue-grass  Cake. 

Two  cups  each  of  butter  and  corn^starch,  three  of  sugar,  one  of 
sweet  milk,  six  of  flour,  whites  of  fourteen  eggs,  one  tea-spoon  soda, 
two  tea-spoons  cream  of  tartar.  Cream  the  bufjler  and  sugar  well, 
add  the  milk,  then  the  corn-starch,  sift  the  cream  of  tartar  in  the 
flour  (stirring  it  well  together),  add  the  flour  and  well-beaten  whites 
alternately,  bake  in  a  loaf.  When  it  is  done  and  cold,  with  a  long 
knife  cut  it  through  the  middle,  make  an  icing  of  one-half  cup  of 
sugar  and  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  sugar,  boil  until  it  will 
spin  a  thread  in  dropping  from  a  spoon,  then  stir  in  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs,  flavor  to  taste ;  take  one  pound  of  fresh  figs, 
one  pound  of  raisins,  and  one  pound  of  almonds  or  hickory-nuts, 
chop  the  fruit  very  fine,  blanch  the  almonds  or  prepare  the  hick- 
ory-nut meats,  chop  slightly,  and  stir  all  in  the  icing ;  put  a  layer 
between  the  cake,  and  on  top  and  all  over  the  side.  This  is  a  de- 
licious cake 

Bride's  Cake. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  small  cup  butter,  a  cup 
sweet  milk,  four  small  cups  flour,  half  cup  corn-starch,  two  tea. 
spoons  baking-powder,  lemon  to  taste.     Adding  a  cup  citron  sliced 


68  CAKE-MAKING. 

fcUn  and  dusted  with  flour,  makes  a  beautiful  citron  cake. — Mn» 
Harvey  Clarke  Piqua. 

Whipped-Cream  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tbble-spoons  softened  butter  and 
four  of  milk ;  beat  all  well  together ;  add  a  cup  of  flour  in  which 
has  beep  mixed  tea-spoon  cream  tartar  and  half  tea-spoon  soda. 
Bake  in  rather  small  square  dripping-pan.  When  cake  is  cool  have 
ready  a  half  pint  sweet  cream  whipped  to  a  stifle  froth,  sweeten  and 
flavor  to  taste,  spread  over  cake  and  ser^  while  fresh.  The  cream 
will  froth  easier  to  be  made  cold  by  setting  on  ice  before  whipping. 
— Mn.  Wm,  Brown, 

Corn-Starch  Cake. 

Two  coffee-cups  pulverized  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  cup 
corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  whites 
of  seven  eggs,  two  tea-spoons  cream  tartar,  tea-spoon  soda  mixed 
thoroughly  with  the  flour ;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  starch  and 
milk,  then  add  the  whites  and  flour  gradually  until  all  is  used. 
Flavor  with  lemon  or  rose. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Andencn, 

Coffee  Cake. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  molasses,  one  of 
strong  coffee  as  prepared  for  the  table,  four  eggs,  one  tea-spoon 
saleratus,  two  of  cinnamon,  two  of  cloves,  one  of  grated  nutmeg, 
pound  raisins,  one  of  currants,  four  cups  flour.' — Mrs,  Wm,  Shinner^ 
Battle  Oreek, 

Coffee  Cake. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  cup  molasses,  half  cup  butter,  cup  strong 
coffee,  one  egg  or  yolks  of  two,  four  even  cups  flour,  heaping  tea- 
spoon soda  in  the  flour,  table-spoon  cinnamon,  teaspoon  cloves,  two 
pounds  raisins,  fourth  pound  citron.  Soften  the  butter,  beat  with 
the  sugar,  add  the  egg,  spices,  molasses,  and  coflee,  then  the  flour, 
and  lastly  the  fruit  dredged  with  a  little  flour.  Bake  one  hour  in 
moderate  oven,  or  make  in  two  small  loaves  which  will  bake  in  a 
short  time.     This  may  be  made  without  the  egg. — Mrs.  D.  Buaixnu 


CAKE-MAKING,  69 

Cocoa-nut  Cake. 

One  cup  batter,  three  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  four  and  a 
half  of  £our,  four  eggs  with  whites  be&ten  to  a  stiff  froth,  a  tea- 
spoon soda,  two  of  cream  tartar,  one  grated  cocoa-nut. — Mn,  J. 
HoBand, 

Caramel  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  a  scant  cup  milk,  one  and  a  half 
cups  flour,  cup  com  starch,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  tea-spoons 
baking  po)¥der  in  the  flour ;  bake  in  a  long  pan.  T  Ke  half  pound 
brown  sugar,  scant  quarter  pound  chocolate,  half '  .up  milk,  butter 
fiize  of  an  egg,  two  tea-spoons  vanilla ;  mix  thoroughly  and  cook  as 
syrup  until  stiff  enough  to  spread ;  spread  on  cake  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  dry. — Mrs.  George  Bever. 

CiNciKNATi  Cake. 

Pour  over  one  pound  fat  salt  pork,  chopped  fine  and  free  from 
lean  and  rind,  one  puit  boiling  water,  let  stand  untU  nearly  cold ; 
add  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  one  table-spoon  each 
of  cloves  and  nutmeg,  and  two  of  cinnamon,  two  pounds  raisins, 
fourth  pound  citron,  half  glass  brandy,  three  tea-spoons  of  baking 
powder,  and  seven  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Bake  slowly  two  and  a 
half  hours.  This  is  excellent,  and  requires  neither  butter  or  eggs. 
—Mrs.  O.  E.  Kinney. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  three  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  four  of 
flour,  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  nine  table-spoons  grated  Baker^s  choco- 
late, three  tea-spoons  baking  powder.  This  may  be  baked  as  a 
layer  cake,  making  a  white  cake  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  baking 
in  layers,  and  putting  them  together  with  frosting,  alternating  the 
layers. — Mrs.  Frank  Woods  Robinson,  Kenton. 

Delicate  Cake. 

Three  cups  flour,  two  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk, 
whites  of  six  eggs,  half  cup  butter,  tea-spoon  cream  tartar,  half 
tea-spoon  of  soda.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Good  and  easily  made. — 
Miss  Mary  E.  Miller. 


70  CAKE-MAKINQ, 

EVEBLASTINO  CaKE. 

Beat  together  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  three-fourths  of  a  pint 
white  sugar,  add  one  and  a  half  pint^  blanched  and  shelled  almonds, 
half  pound  sliced  citron  well  floured,  and  the  whipped  whites  with 
one  and  a  half  pints  sifted  flour ;  pour  one  and  a  half  inches  thick 
in  well-greased  dripping  pans,  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and,  when  done, 
cut  slices  one  inch  thick  across  the  cake,  turn  each  slice  over  on  its 
side,  return  to  oven  and  bake  a  short  time.  When  cold  place  in  a 
tin  box.  These  will  keep  a  year  and  a  half  or  more,  and  are  nice 
to  have  in  bto.e. — Mrs,  J.  S.  WUlrnnu,  Brooklyn, 

Egoless  Cake. 
One  and  a  half  tea-cups  sugar,  one  of  sour  milk,  three  (level)  of 
siited  flour,  half  cup  butter,  tea-spoon  soda,  half  tea-spoon  cinna- 
mon, half  tea-spoon  grated  nutmeg,  tea-cup  raisins  chopped  and 
well  floured. — Miss  Louise  Skinner. 

Old  Hartford  Election  Cake. 
Five  pounds  sifted  flour,  two  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  thre  gills 
distillery  yeast  or  twice  the  quantity  of  home  brewed,  four  eggs,  gill 
of  wine,  gill  of  brandy,  one  quart  sweet  milk,  half  an  ounce  of  nut- 
meg, two  pounds  raisins,  one  of  citron ;  rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together  very  fine,  add  half  the  sugar,  then  the  yeast  and  half  the 
milk  (hot  in  winter,  blood-warm  in  summer),  then  add  the  eggs^, 
then  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  the  wine ;  beat  well  and  let  rise  in 
a  warm  place  all  night;  in  the  morning  beat  a  longtime,  adding 
brandy,  sugar,  spice,  and  fruit  well  floured,  and  allow  to  rise  again 
very  light,  after  which  put  in  cake  pans  and  let  ris?e  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes ;  have  the  oven  about  as  hot  as  for  bread.  This  cake  will 
keep  any  length  of  time.  For  raised  cakes  use  potato  yeast  if  fresh 
iiiude ;  it  is  always  a  i>erfect  success.  This  recipe  is  over  one  hun- 
ilred  years  old. — Mrs.  Eliza  BurrOiam^  Milford  Center. 

Apple  Fruit  Cake. 
One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one-  of  milk,  two  eggs,  tea-spoon 
soda,  three  and  a  half  cups  flour,  two  of  raisins,  three  of  dried 
apples  soaked  over  night  and  then  chopped  fine  and  stewed  two 
hours  in  two  ctips  molasses ;  beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add 
milk,  in  which  dissolve  soda,  then  the  beaten  eggs  and  flour,  and 


CAKE-MAKINQ.  71 

lastly  the  raifflns  and  apples  well  stirred  in ;  pour  in  pan  and  bake 
an  hour  and  a  half. — Mrs.  C.  Jf.  Ingman, 

Fruit  Cake.  • 

One  cup  butter,  one  of  brown  sugar,  half  pint  molasses,  two  eggs, 
cup  sour  milk,  tea-spoon  soda,  pound  of  flour,  one  of  currants,  one 
and  a  half  pounds  raisins.  Flavor  to  taste.  This  has  been  thor- 
oughly tested,  and  is  a  great  favorite. — Mn,  M,  E.  Niedy. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Twelve  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pounds  each  of  butter,  sugar  and 

flour,  two  pounds  each  of  raisins  and  currants,  one  pound  citron, 

one  half-pint  molasses,  one  ounce  each  of  nutmeg,  mace  and  cloves, 

one  and  a  half  glasses  of  jelly  (grape  is  best),  one-fourth  pint  each 

of  wine  and  brandy,   more  flour  if  needed.     Put  dough  in  pans, 

set  in  steamer,  taking  care  that  the  cover  is  made  to  fit  very  tight ; 

if  necessary  put  cloth  under  the  lid  and  shut  it  down  on  it,  taking 

care  that  it  does  not  touch  the  cake,  or  lay  several  thicknesses  of 

cloth  over  the  lid.     Steam  two  hours  and   bake  one  hour. — Qiaa, 

Cjiphers,  Minneapolis,  Mxnn, 

Fruit  Loaf  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  New  Orleans  molas- 
ses, one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  five  cups  sifted  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  tea-spoon  soda  in  the  milk,  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  one  nutmeg?,  one  pound  raisins,  one  of  currants, 
quarter  pound  citron  (citron  may  be  omitted,  and  half  the  quantity 
of  raisins  and  currauts  will  do).  Put  flour  in  a  large  crock,  mix 
well  with  cream  tartar,  make  a  well  in  the  center,  put  in  other  ingre- 
dients, having  warmed  the  butter  and  molasses  a  little ;  mix  well 
together  with  the  hands,  putting  in  the  fruit  last  after  it  has  been 
floured ;  bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  will  make  two 
common-sized  loaves. — Mrs.  N.  8.  Long. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Three  pounds  butter,  three  of  brown  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream, 
three  of  flour,  six  of  currants,  six  of  raisins,  after  seeds  are  removed, 
one  of  citron  sliced  thin,  three  glasses  brandy,  twenty-eight  eggs, 
one  ounce  cinnamon,  one  of  grated  nutmeg,  three-quarters  ounce 
cloves,  half  ounce  mace ;  roll  the  raisins,  currants  and  citron  m 
part  of  the  flour. — Miss  H.  D.  M 


7^  CAKE-MAKING. 

Fruit  Cake. 
One  pound  brown  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  eggs,  one  of  floor, 
two  of  raisinSy  two  of  currants,  half  pound  citron,  a  nutmeg,  table- 
spoon cloves,  one  of  allspice,  half  pint  brandj,  and  two  tea-spoons 
baking-powder.  After  baking,  while  yet  warm,  pour  over  cake  a 
half  pint  wine.   This  makes  the  cake  delicious. — Mm  Angis  Skinner^ 

SoTnerset, 

Excellent  Fruit  Cake. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  raisins,  one  and  a  fourth  pounds  currants, 
three-fourths  pound  citron,  pound  butter,  pound  sugar,  one  and  a 
fourth  pounds  flour,  ten  eggs,  two  table-spoons  lemon,  two  tea-spoons 
yeast  powder ;  mix  a  fourth  pound  of  the  flour  in  the  fruit. — Mrs. 
J.  TT.  OruhbB, 

Poor  Man's  Fruit  Cake. 
One  and  a  half  cups  brown  sugar,  two  of  flour,  one  each  of  but- 
ter and  chopped  raisins,  three  eggs,  three  table-spoons  sour  milk, 
half  tea-spoon  soda,  half  cup  blackberry  jam.     This  is  excellent  as 
well  as  economical. — Mrs,  J.  8.  Robinson, 

Scotch  Fruit  Cake. 
A  cup  butter,  two  of  white  sugar,  four  of  sifted  flour,  three- 
fourths  cup  sour  milk,  half  tea-spoon  soda,  nine  eggs  beaten  separ- 
ately, one  pound  raisins,  half  pound  currants,  a  fourth  pound  citron; 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  gradually,  then  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  lastly,  while  stirring  in  flour,  the  whites  well  whipped. 
Flavor  with  one  tea-spoon  lemon,  and  one  of  vanilla  extract,  and 
have  raisins  chopped  a  little,  or,  better  still,  seeded,  and  citron 
sliced  thin.  Wash  and  dry  currants  before  using,  and  flour  all  fruit 
slightly.  In  putting  cake  in  pan,  place  first  a  thin  layer  of  cake, 
tlien  sprinkle  in  some  of  the  three  kinds  of  fruit,  then  a  layer  of 
cake,  and  so  on,  always  finishing  ofl*  with  a  thin  layer  of  cake.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours.  Tested  by  many  and  has  never 
failed. —Jfrs.  J,  H.  Shearer. 

Thanksgiving  Fruit  Cake. 
Six  pounds  flour,  three  of  butter,  three  and  a  half  of  sugar,  an 
ounce  mace,  two  glasses   wine,  two  glasses  brandy,  four  pounds 
raisins,  half  pound  citron,  six  eggs,  one  pint  yeast,  small  tea-spoon 


CAKE-MAKING,  73 

aoda  put  in  at  last  moment.  After  tea,  take  all  the  flour  (except 
one  plate  for  dredging  raisins),  a  small  piece  butter,  and  a  quart  or 
more  of  milk,  and  mix  like  biscuit ;  then  mix  butter  and  sugar,  and 
at  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening,  if  sufficiently  light,  put  one-third  of 
butter  and  sugar  into  dough ;  at  twelve  add  another  third,  and  very 
early  in  the  morning  the  remainder  ;  about  eleven  o'cJock,  if  light 
enough,  begin  kneading,  and  continue  for  an  hour,  adding  mean- 
while all  the  other  ingredients.  This  will  make  seven  loaves.-  • 
Mrs.  Woodworihf  Springfidd, 

Choice  Fig  Cake. 
A  large  cup  butter,  two  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk, 
three  pints  flour  with  three  tea-spoons  baking-powder,  whites  of  six- 
teen ^gs,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  figs  well  floured  and  cut  in 
strips  like  citron ;  no  flavoring. — Mrs.  A,  B.  Morey. 

Groom's  Cake. 
Ten  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pound  butter,  one  of  white  sugar, 
one  of  flour,  two  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  fine,  one  of 
seeded  raisins,  half  pound   citron,  shaved  fine;   beat  butter  to  a 

I 

cream,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  the  well-beaten  yolks ;  stir  all  tiU 
very  light,  and  add  the  chopped  almonds ;  beat  the  whites  stifiT  and 
add  gently  with  the  flour ;  take  a  little  more  flour  and  sprinkle  over 
the  raisins  and  citron,  then  put  in  the  cake-pan,  first  a  layer  of  cake 
batter,  then  a  layer*  xn  raisins  and  dtrob,  thefi  isake,  and  00  on  tSII 
ail  is  used,  finishing  ofl*  with  a  layer  of  cake.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  two  hours. — Mary  Wilcox,  DaUon. 

Hard-Money  Cake. 

Gold  Part, — Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  scant  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar, 
four  of  flour,  one  of  sour  milk,  tea-spoon  soda,  table-spoon  com 
starch ;  flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 

Silver  Part. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  four  (scant)  of  flour, 
one  of  sour  milk,  tea-spoon  soda,  table-spoon  corn  starch,  whites  of 
eight  eggs ;  flavor  with  almond  or  peach.  Put  in  pan,  alternately, 
one  spoonful  of  gold  and  one  of  silver. — Miss  Emma  Fisher. 

Old  Hickory  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  three  eggs  beaten  well  together, 
level  tea-spoon  soda  stirred  in  half  cup  sour  milk,  two  small  cups 


74  CAKE-MAKINQ. 

flour;  flavor  with  lemon,  pour  in  small  dripping-pan,  bake  half  an 
hour,  and  cut  in  squares.  This  cake  is  always  elected  for  a  ''  second 
term." — Mx8»  Flora  Ziegler,  Columbus, 

BEicKORY-NUT  Cake. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  milk,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  three  of  flour, 
three  eggs,  two  tea-spoons  baking-powder,  a  cup  nut-kernels  cut 
fine.     Tried,  and  not  found  wanting. — Mm.  Judge  Wed,  BeO^ontaine. 

Hickory-nut  Cake. 

A  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk, 

whites  of  seven  and  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  tea-spoon  soda,  two  of 

cream  tartar,  one  pint  hickory-nut  meats  rolled  and  sprinkled  with 

flour ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stifle  froth.     Rich  and  excellent. — Mn. 

A.  B,  Morey. 

Imperial  Cake. 

One  pound  butter  and  one  of  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  one  pound 

flour,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  nine  eggs,  one  and  a 

quarter  pounds  almonds  before  they  are  cracked,  half  pound  citron, 

half  pound  raisins ;  beat  the  yolks  light,  add  sugar  and  butter,  then 

the  whites  beaten  to  a  stifle  froth,  and  the  flour,  reserving  a  part  for 

the  fruit,  and,  lastly,  the  nuts  blanched,  cut  fine  and  mixed  with 

fruit  and  the  rest  of  the  flour.     This  is  very  delicious,  and  will  keep 

for  months. — Mn.  E,  R.  May,  MvrmeapoliSy  Minn. 

Lady's  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  of  sugar,  two  of  flour,  nearly 

one  of  sweet  milk,  half  tea-spoon  soda,  one  of  cream  tartar,  whites 

of  four  eggs  well  beaten ;  flavor  with  peach  or  almond. — Mias  M. 

E,  W.y  Madison, 

Yellow  Lady's  Cake. 

One  and  a  half  cups  flour,  one  of  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half 

cup  sweet  milk,  tea-spoon  soda,  two  tea-spoons  cream  tartar,  yolks 

of  four  eggs,  tearspoon  vanilla. — Olivia  S.  Hinman^  BatUe  Greek, 

Midi. 

Lemon  Cake. 

One  pound  flour,  one  of  sugar,  three-fourths  pound  butter,  seven 
eggs,  juice  of  one  and  rind  of  two  lemons.  The  sugar,  butter  and 
yolks  of  eggs  must  be  beaten  a  long  time,  adding,  by  d^rees,  the 


CAKErMAKINQ.  75 

dour,  and  the  whites  of  eggs  last.     A  tumbler  and  a  half  of  sliced 
dtron  many  be  added.     This  keeps  well. — Mi^s  M,  B,  FuUingtan. 

Aunt  Hettie's  Loaf  Cake. 
Two  cups  sugar  aud  one  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  three  eggs, 
the  whites  beaten  separately,  three  cups  flour  with  one  tea-spoon 
cream  tartar  stirred  in,  yolks  of  the  eggs  stirred  well  with  the  sugar 
and  butter;  now  add  two  cups  more  flour  with  one  tea-spoon 
cream  tartar,  one  cup  sweet  milk  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
then  stir  again;  add  one  nutmeg,  one  pound  raisins  or  currants 
dredged  with  flour,  one  tea-spoon  soda  dissolved  in  four  table-spoons 
of  water.     This  makes  two  nice  loaves,  and  is  excellent. 

French  Loaf  Cake. 
Five  cups  sugar,  three  of  butter,  two  of  milk,  ten  of  flour,  six 
eggs,  three  nutmegs,  pound  seeded  raisins,  a  grated  lemon,  small 
tea-spoon  soda,  wine-glass  wine,  one  of  brandy,  or,  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  Orleans  molasses. — Mrs,  A.  S.  Chapman. 

Old-fashioned  Loaf  Cake. 
Three  pounds  (three  quarts  sifted  and  well  heaped)  flour,  one  and 
a  fourth  pounds  (a  rounded  pint  of  soft)  butter,  one  and  three- 
fourths  pounds  (one  quart)  sugar,  five  gills  new  milk,  half  pint 
yeast,  three  eggs,  two  pounds  raisins,  tea-spoon  soda,  gill  of  brandy 
or  wine,  or  a  fourth  pint  of  molasses,  two  tea-spoons  cinnamon  and 
two  ox  nutmeg,  ocaid  ine  milk,  cooi  w  biuuu  wiu-m,  oau  tneyeitev, 
then  the  flour,  to  which  all  the  butter  and  half  the  sugar  have  been 
added ;  then  mix  together,  and  let  rise  until  light  It  is  better  to 
set  this  sponge  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients (flouring  raisins),  and  let  rise  again.  When  light,  fill  baking- 
pans  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  recipe 
makes  three  large  loaves,  and  is  a  standard,  economical  loaf-eake. — 
Mrs,  Ex-Oov,  Mm  J.  Bagky,  Mich. 

Marble  Cake. 

WkUe  Part. — Whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  cups  white  sugar,  one 
of  butter,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of  flour,  sifted  and  heaping,  one 
tearspoon  soda ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Dark  Part. — Yolks  of  seven  eggs,  three  cups  brown  sugar,  one  of 
butter,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of  flour,  sift;ed  and  heaping,  one 


76  CAKB-MAKINQ. 

table-fipoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  one  tea-spoon 
soda ;  put  iu  pans  a  spoonful  of  white  part  and  then  a  spoonful  of 
dark,  and  so  on.  Bake  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Use  coffee-cups  to 
measure.  This  will  make  one  large  and  one  medium  cake.  The 
white  and  dark  parts  are  alternated,  either  by  putting  in  a  spoonful 
of  white,  then  of  dark,  or  a  layer  of  white  and  then  of  dark  part, 
being  careful  that  the  cake  may  be  nicely  '*  marbleized." — Mn.  AL 
E.  Smith,  (Xevekmd. 

Marbled  Chocolate  Cake. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  white  cake,  take  out  one  tea-cup,  add  to  it 

five  table-spoons  of  grated  chocolate,  moisten  with  milk,  and  flavor 

with  vanilla ;  pour  a  layer  of  the  white  batter  into  the  baking-pan^ 

then  drop  the  chocolate  batter  with  a  spoon  in  spots,  and  spread  the 

remainder  of  the  white  batter  over  it. — Mrs.  Sarah  PhdpBy  Spring* 

fidiy  Ohio. 

One-Ego  Cake. 

One  half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  three  of  flour, 

one  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  tea-spoon  soda,  two  tea-spoons 
cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  cup  raisins  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  A.  S.  C. 

Orange  Cake. 
Two  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  two,  half 
cup  butter,  one  of  water,  two  tea-spoona  baking-powder,  three  cups 
flour,  juice,  grated  rind,  and  pulp  of  one  orange;  use  the  remain- 
ing  whites  for  frosting  the  top. — Mr%,  D.  B 

Citron  Pound  Cake. 

One.  pound  ^ugar,  one  of  flour,  three-fourths  pound  butter,  eight 

large  or  ten  small  eggs,  one  and  a   fourth  pound  citron  finely 

shredded;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yolks,  the  nthe  flour 

and  well- whipped  whites;   put  layer  of  batter  in  cake-pan   and 

sprinkle  thickly  with  citron,  then  another  layer  of  batter,  etc.,  till 

pan  is  filled.     Bake  slowly  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours. — Mn,  J. 

M.  Southard. 

Pyramid  Pound  Cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  ten  eggs;  bake  in 
a  dripping-pan  one  inch  in  thickness;  cut  when  cold  into  pieces 
three  and  a  half  inches  long  by  two  wide,  and  frost  top  and  sides; 


CAKE-MAKINQ.  77 

fbrm  on  the  cake  stand  in  pyramid  before  the  icmg  is  quite  dry  by 
lajingi  first  in  a  circle,  five  pieces  with  some  space  between  them; 
over  the  spaces  between  these  lay  five  other  pieces,  gradually  draw- 
ing in  the  column  and  crowning  the  top  with  a  bouquet  of  flowers. 

— Mn.Dr.  Thontpson. 

White  Pound  Cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  of  flour,  half  pound  butter,  whites  of  six- 
teen ^gs,  tea-spoon  baking-powder  sifted  thoroughly  with  the  flour; 
put  in  cool  oven  with  gradual  increase  of  heat.  For  boDed  icing 
for  the  cake,  take  three  cups  sugar  boiled  in  one  of  water  until 
clear;  beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  very  stiff  firoth,  and  pour  over 
them  the  boiling  liquid,  beating  all  the  time  for  ten  minute;  frost 
while  both  cake  and  icing  are  warm. — Mrs.  Ada  EsteUe  Bever,  Cedar 

RapidSy  Iowa, 

Rice  Cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  a  pound  of  ground  rice,  half  pound  butter, 

nine  eggs,  rose-water  to  taste;  add  a  little  salt,  beat  butter  and 

sugar  together,  add  rose-water,  salt  and  eggs,  lastly  the  rice ;  bake 

in  shallow  pans. — Oovemor  Rice,  Mass. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  powdered  sugar,  two  of  sifted 
flour,  two  tea-spoons  cream  tartar,  half  cup  cold  water,  tea-spoon 
soda,  grated  rind  and  half  the  juice  of  one  lemon ;  bake  in  dripping* 
pan. — Mrs,  ELvsa  J.  Starr. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Twelve  eggs,  pint  pulverized  sugar,  one  of  flour,  measured  before 
dfting,  small  tea-spoon  salt,  heaping  tea-spoon  baking  powder,  es- 
sence of  lemon  for  flavor;  beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and 
add  sugar ;  beat  the  yolks,  strain  and  add  them  to  the  whites  and 
sogar,  and  beat  the  whole  thoroughly;  mix  baking-powder  and  salt 
b  the  flour  and  add  last,  stirring  in  small  quantities  at  a  time ;  bake 
one  hour  in  a  six-quart  pan  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  one 
very  large  cake.  By  weight  use  one  pound  pulverized  sugar  and 
ihiee-fourths  pound  flour. — Miss  8.  Alice  Mdcking. 

Sponge  Cake. 
One  pound  sugar,  one  of  flour,  ten  eggs;  stir  yolks  of  eggs  and 
sugar  till  perfectly  light;  beat  whites  of  eggs  and  add  them  with 


78  CAKE-MAKINO. 

the  flour  after  beating  together  lightly;  flavor  with  lemoD.  Three 
tea-spoons  baking-powder  in  the  flour  will  add  to  its  lightness,  but 
it  never  fails  without.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Clara 
H.^  KTioxviUe. 

Mrs.  Jennison'h  Sponge  Cake. 

One  lemon,  three  gOIs  flour,  one  pint  sugar,  eight  eggs ;  beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  thoroughly,  add  the  sugar  little  by  little,  and  the 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon ;  l)eat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiflT 
froth,  and  add  them  alternately  with  the  flour,  beating  very  gently 
and  barely  long  enough  to  mix  well ;  when  part  of  the  flour  is  in, 
add  the  lemon-juice.     Bake  twenty  minutes,  in  small  loaves. 

Southern-rights  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  one  tea-cup  sugar,  one  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  scant 
half  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  half  a  tablespoon  each  of  cinna- 
mon, sifted  ginger  and  allspice,  half  a  tea-spoon  soda,  half  a  wine- 
glass brandy,  cream,  sugar  and  butter;  beat  spices  and  yolks  of  eggs 
together,  dissolve  soda  in  molasses,  whip  whites  to  a  froth,  and  add 
last,  a  little  at  a  time,  alternating  with  the  flour.  (Best  baked  in 
small  pans  and  frosted.) — Mrs,  8.  P.  HiU,  Cht. 

Spice  Cake. 

Three  pounds  seedless  raisins,  one  and  a  half  pounds  citron,  one 
pound  butter,  two  and  a  half  coflee-cups  sugar,  two  of  sweet  milk, 
four  of  flour,  six  eggs,  two  large  tea-spoons  baking-powder,  three 
tea-spoons  cinnamon,  two  of  mace. — Mrs.  Oov,  Potts,  MorUana. 

Southern  Seed  Cake. 

Cream,  one  cup  sugar,  and  one-third  cup  butter;  add  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  tea-spoons  baking-powder 
sifted  in  two  cups  flour,  one  table-spoon  caraway  seed,  one  grated 
nutmeg  and  well-beaten  whites.  This  has  been  tried  and  approved 
in  our  family  for  years. — Mrs.  Ed.  Skidds^  Ala. 

Snow  Cake. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs  beaten  to  a  stifi*  froth,  sift  lightly  on  this  one 
and  a  half  cups  fine  white  or  pulverized  sugar,  stir  well,  and  add  cup 
flour  mixed  with  tea-spoon  cream  tartar;  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla. — Mrs.  Porter,  Biekmond,  Va. 


CAKE-MAKINO,  79 

Ten-bonute  Cake. 

^e-fourth  pound  butter,  a  little  leas  than  a  pound  flour,  the 
«aine  of  sugar,  six  eggs  beaten  separately ;  flavor  with  mace  and 
we  in  mufl^-rings.  —Mrs.  8.  C  Lee,  Baltimore ,  Mi. 

TiLDEN  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three 
^  flour,  half  cup  corn-starch,  four  eggs,  two  teanspoons  baking- 
powder,  two  of  lemon  extract.  This  is  so  excellent  that  a  **bar- 
'd"  would  not  be  too  much  of  it. — Mrs.  J,  L.  PelerSf  Mempkis,  Tenn. 

Tennessee  Cake. 

One  pint  sifted  meal,  half  a  pint  flour,  eight  eggs,  half  a  pound 
^&ch  butter  and  sugar ;  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Beat  butter 
^d  sugar  together,  add  eggs,  then  meal  and  flour  gradually.  Beat 
^  well,  and  bake  an  hout  and  a  half.  To  be  eaten  soon  after  hak- 
ing.— 'Mwn*  Katie,"  McMinrmUe. 

Water-melon  Cake. 

WhUe  Part. — Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet 
inilk,  three  and  a  half  of  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  tea-spoons 
cream  tartar,  one  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water. 

Bed  Part. — ^One  cup  red  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  third  cup  sweet 
sulk,  two  cups  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  tea-spoon  cream  tartar, 
hlf  tea-spoon  soda,  tea-cup  raisins ;  be  careAil  to  keep  the  red  part 
around  the  tube  of  the  pan  and  the  white  around  the  edge.  It 
requires  two  persons  to  fill  the  pan.  This  is  a  very  attractive  and 
ornamental  cake. — Mr$.  B.  F.,  Tuscumbia,  Ala. 

Wedding  Cake. 

Fifty  ^gs,  five  pounds  sugar,  five  of  flour,  five  of  butter,  fifteen 
ot  raisins,  three  of  citron,  ten  of  currants,  pint  brandy,  fourth 
ooDoe  cloves,  ounce  cinuf^mon,  four  of  mace,  four  of  nutmeg. 
This  makes  forty-three  and  a  half  pounds,  and  keeps  twenty  years. 
This  cake  is  unequaled. — Mrs.  C  H.  £>.,  Raleigh,  N.  C. 

Whortleberry  Cake. 

Beat  two  eggs  with  one  cup  sugar ;  add  half  cup  butter,  one  of 
milk,  one  tea-spoon  soda  sifted  in  four  cups  flour,  pinch  salt, 
and  one  pint  fresh  whortleberries.    Bake,  and  eat  warm.    Delicious. 


80  LAYEBrCAKES. 

Whttb    Perfection  Cake. 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  three  of  flour,  one 
of  com  starch,  whites  of  twelve  'eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two 
tea-spoons  cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  and  one  of  soda  in  half  the 
milk ;  dissolve  the  com  starch  in  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and  add  it  to 
the  sugar  and  butter  well  beaten  together,  then  the  milk  and  soda, 
and  the  flour  and  whites  of  eggs.  This  cake  is  rightly  named 
**  Perfection."— Jfrg.  C.  Jones,  Bradford,  Vt 


LAYER-CAKES. 


In  bakmg  layer-cakes  it  is  important  to  thoroughly  grease  the 
tins — to  make  it  emphatic,  we  will  say  thoroughly  grease  and  then 
grease  again — and  after  using  rub  ofi*  with  a  coarse  tomel,  taking 
care  that  they  are  perfectly  free  from  all  small  particles  of  cake, 
grease  and  All  again,  thus  obviating  the  necessity  of  washing  every 
time  they  are  filled.  If  jelly  is  used  to  spread  between  the  layers, 
it  is  a  good  plan  to  beat  it  smoothly  and  spread  it  before  the  cakes 
are  quite  cool.  In  **  building,"  an  inverted  jelly-tin  furnishes  a 
perfectly  level  surface  on  which  to  lay  and  spread  the  cake,  and  it 
may  be  allowed  to  remain  on  it  until  perfectly  cold,  when  it  should 
be  set  away  in  a  tin  cake-box,  in  a  cool  place.  In  cutting,  it  is 
better  to  first  make  a  round  hole  in  the  center,  with  a  knife,  or  a 
tin  tube,  about  an  inch  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  This  prevents 
the  edge  of  the  cake  from  crumbling  in  cutting.  In  making  the 
custard  or  "filluig"  for  layer-cake,  place  in  a  custard-kettle  or  in 
a  tin  pail.  Set  in  boiling  water  to  cook,  to  avoid  all  danger  of 
.burning. 

To  blanch  almonds,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand  a 
moment,  drain  and  throw  them  into  cold  water,  slip  ofi*  the  skins, 
and  pound. 

AiM&SD  Cake. 
Two  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk,  two 
of  flour,  and  one  of  com  starch  well  mixed,  whites  of  six  eggs,  two 


LAYEB-CAKES,  81 

tearepoons  cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  one  tea-spoon  soda  in  the  milk ; 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  gradually,  then  the  whites  of 
^gs  together  with  the  flour,  and  bake  in  jelly-tins.  To  put  between 
layers,  take  two  pounds  almonds,  blanch  and  pound  fine  in  a  mor- 
tar (or  a  cloth  will  do),  beat  whites  and  yolks  of  two  e^s  together 
lightly,  add  a  cup  and  a  half  sugar,  then  the  almonds,  with  one 
table-spoon  vanilla. — Mn,  Harvey  Wood, 

Almond  Cream  Cake. 

On  beaten  whites  of  ten  eggs,  sift  one  and  a  half  goblets  pulver- 
ized sugar,  and  a  goblet  flour  through  which  has  been  stirred  a 
heaping  tea-spoon  cream  tartar ;  stir  very  gently  and  do  not  heat  it ; 
hake  in  jelly-pans.  For  cream,  take  a  half  pint  sweet  cream,  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  table-spoon  pulverized  sugar,  tea-spoon  corn  starch ; 
dissolve  slarch  smoothly  with  a  little  milk,  beat  yolks  and  sugar 
together  with  this,  boil  the  cream,  and  stir  these  ingredients  in  as 
for  any  cream-cake  filling,  only  make  a  little  thicker ;  blanch  and 
chop  fine  a  half  pound  almonds  and  stir  into  the  cream.  Put  to- 
gether like  jelly  cake  while  icing  is  soft,  and  stick  in  a  half  pound 
of  almonds  split  in  two. — Mrs.  Paris  Gibson,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Boston  Cream  Puffb. 

Pot  half  pint  hot  water  and  two-thirds  cup  butter  over  the  fire; 
when  boiling,  stir  in  one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  and  continue  stirring 
until  smooth  and  the  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the  sauce-pan ; 
remove  from  fire,  cool,  and  beat  thoroughly  into  it  five  well-beaten 
eggs.  Drop  on  warm  greased  tins  (or  a  dripping-pan),  a  table- 
spoon in  a  place,  leaving  space  between  to  prevent  touching,  brush 
over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  When  cakes  are  done,  they  will  be  hollow.  When 
cold,  slice  off*  the  top,  fill  space  with  the  cream,  and  replace  top. 

Oream  far  Inside. — ^Take  one  pint  milk,  place  one-half  in  a  tin 
pail  and  set  in  boiling  water ;  reserve  from  the  other  half  two  table- 
spoons to  mix  with  eggs,  and  into  the  rest,  while  cold,  mix  one  cup 
of  flour  until  smooth ;  when  the  milk  is  hot,  pour  in  the  flour,  and 
stir  until  thicker  than  boiled,  custard  ;  then  beat  well  together  the 
two  table-spoons  milk,  two  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  a  level 

6 


s 


82  LAYEB.CAKES, 

table-spoon  butter,  and  a  tea-spoon  vanilla  or  lemon ;  add  graduany, 
and  continue  stirring  briskly  until  so  thick  that  when  cold  it  will 
drop,  not  pour,  from  the  spoon.  The  puffs  may  be  kept  on  hand. 
Make  the  creaLi  fresh,  let  it  cool,  and  fill  as  many  as  are  wanted. 
— Mn.  Ex-Oovemor  NoyeSy  (Krunnnati,  Ohio. 

Dixie  Cream  Puffs. 
Five  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  and  a  half 
cups  each  of  white  sugar  and  sifted  flour,  two  tea-spoons  baking 
powder  in  the  flour ;  bake  in  tea-cups,  filling  about  half  full.  The 
cream  is  prepared  by  placing  a  small  tin  pail  containing  a*  pint  sweet 
milk  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  two 
eggs  separately ;  stir  in  the  milk  while  boiling,  a  half  tea-cup 
sugar,  a  large  table-spoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  sweet 
milk,  then  the  beaten  yolks  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large 
walnut ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  When  done,  cut  the  cakes 
open,  put  in  a  spoonful  of  the  cream,  place  together  again,  roll  in 
the  whites,  and    then  in   coarse   granulated  sugar. — 

French  Cream  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  flour, 
two  table-spoons  cold  water,  tea-spoon  baking  powder.  This  is 
enough  for  two  cakes  baked  in  pie-pans,  to  be  split  while  warm, 
spreading  the  hot  custard  between  them,  or  for  four  cakes  baked  in 
jelly-pans,  with  the  hot  custard  spread  between  them,  the  latter 
being  the  preferable  plan.  For  custard,  boil  nearly  one  pint  sweet 
milk ;  mix  two  table-spoons  com  starch  with  a  half  tea-cup  sweet 
milk,  add  two  well-beaten  eggs :  when  milk  has  boiled  add  nearly  a 
cup  sugar,  and  add  gradually  the  com  starch  and  eggs,  stirring 
briskly;  add  a  half  cup  butter,  stirring  until  dissolved,  flavor  with 
one  tearspoon  vanilla,  and  spread  between  cakes  while  hot.  This 
cake  can  be  used  as  a  pudding  by  pouring  over  each  piece  a  spoonAil 
of  the  custard  that  is  left. — Mrs.  Charles  Morey. 

Golden  Cream  Cake. 
Cream  one  cup  sugar  and  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  half  cup 
sweet  milk,  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half 
cups  flour,  with  half  a  tea-spoon  soda,  and  a  teaspoon  cream  tartar 


LAYER-CAKES,  83 

stfted  with  it ;  bake  in  three  deep  jelly-tins ;  beat  very  h'ght  the 

yolks  of  two  e^8,  one  cup  sugar,  and  two  t&ble-spoons  rich  sweet 

cream,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  spread  on  cakes ;  or  to  yolks  add 

one  and  a  half  table-spoons  corn  starch,  three-quarters  cup  sweet 

niiik  and  small  lump  butter ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  cook  in  a 

custard-kettle  till  thick,  let  cool,  and  then  spread. — Mrs.  J.  M. 

Sovtihard. 

Ice-Cream  Cake. 

Make  good  sponge-cake,  bake  half  an  ijteh  thick  in  jelly-pans, 
and  let  them  get  perfectly  cold ;  take  a  pint  thickest  sweet  cream, 
beat  uutil  it  looks  like  ice-cream,  make  very  sweet,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla;  blanch  and  chop  a  pound  almonds,  stir  into  cream,  and 
put  very  thick  between  each  layer.  This  is  the  queen  of  all  cakes. 
— Mia  MattU  FuUingUm. 

Ice-Cbeam  Cake. 

One-fourth  pound  each  butter  and  powdered  sugar,  half  pint 
milk,  half  pound  flour,  six  eggs,  one  glfuss  wine,  one  nutmeg;  bake 
quickly  in  iron  gem-pans.  They  raise  light  with  hollow  center. 
When  cold,  cut  a  round  hole  in  top  (as  you  would  "  plug"  a  oielon), 
fill  with  ice-cream  just  before  serving,  so  that  it  will  not  have  timt 
to  melt — Mn.  A.  C.  GUmer 

Cocoa-nut  Cake. 
To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  add  two  cure  powdered 
white  sugar,  three-fourths  cups  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  and 
a  half  of  flour,  one  level  tea-spoon  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar, 
whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten;  bake  in  jelly-cake  pans.  For 
icing,  grate  one  cocoa-nut,  beat  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  add  one 
tea-cup  powdered  sugar ;  mix  thorotighly  with  the  grated  cocoa-nut, 
and  spread  evenly  on  the  layers  of  cake  when  they  are  cold, — 
Ifiss  Nettie  Miller ,  Columbus. 

Caramel  Cake. 
One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  half  cup 
milk,  two  and  a  fourth  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  heap- 
ing tea-spoons  baking-powder,  or  a  small  tea-spoon  soda,  and  two 
tea-spoons  cream  tartar;  bake  in  jelly-tins.  Make  caramel  as  fol- 
lows: Butter  size  of  an  egg,  pint  brown  sugar,  half  cup  milk  or 


84  LAYEE-GAKES. 

water,  half  cake  chocolate;  boil  twenty  minutes  (or  until  thick 
enough),  and  pour  over  cakes  while  warm,  piling  the  layers  one  upon 
the  oth^er.  For  frosting  for  top  of  cake,  take  whites  of  two  eggs, 
one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  tea-spoou  vanilla,  three  heaping  tea- 
spoons grated  chocolate. — Mrs.  Ella  Snider,  Mvnneapoliat  3fvnn, 

Delicious  Chocolate  Cake. 
The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  ©f  butter,  three  full 
cups  flour,  one-of  sweet  milk,  three  tea-spoons  baking-powder ;  beat 
the  butter  to  a  oream;  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  beat  until  light ;  add 
the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  beaten  whites.  When  well  beaten, 
divide  into  equal  parts,  and  into  half  grate  a  cake  of  sweet  choco- 
late.  Bake  in  layers,  spread  with  custard,  and  alternate  the  whit^ 
and  dark  cakes.  For  custard  for  the  cake,  add  a  table-spoon  of 
butter  to  one  pint  of  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  stir  in  two 
egps  beaten  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  add  two  teaspoons  of  corn  starch 
disfcolved  in  a  little  milk. — Mrs,  J.  M.  Biddle,  BeU^ontaine, 

Chocolate  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  milk,  five  eggs,  leaving  out 

the  whites  of  three,  four  cups  sifted  flour,  two  tea-spoons  baking* 

*powder,  or  one  small  tea-spoon  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar  in  the 

flour ;  bake  in  three  layers  in  deep  jelly-tins.    For  icing,  take  whites 

of  three  eggs,  beaten  stifl*,  one  and  a  half  cups  powdered  sugar, 

six  tablenspoons  grated  chocolate,  two  tearspoons  vanilla. — Mrs.  J. 

H,  Shearer. 

Cup  Ca^. 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  of  bulil^  six  of  flour,  two-thirds  pint  ^ur 
cream,  seven  eggs  (leaving  out  the  whites  of  two  for  icing),  one 
even  tea-spoon  soda  in  the  creiyp,  tei^poon  soda  in  the  flour,  one  of 
cream  tartar,  and  one  of  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  in  pans  one  inch 
deep,  and  when  done  spread  one  wth  icing,  and  lay  the  other  on 
top  of  it,  allowing  two  layers  for  each  cake. — Mrs.  Dr.  Thompwn. 

Domin6es. 

'Make  "Mrs.  Jennison^s  spongecake,"  bake  in  long  pie^tins  (two 
such  tins  will  make  twelve  dominoes,  and  if  no  mpre  are  required, 
the  rest  of  the  batter  may  be  baked  in  a  loaf).  The  batter  in  the 
pie-tins  should  not  be  more  than  one-third  of  an  inch  deep ;  spread 
it  evenly,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.    Have  a  brown  paper  nearly 


A 


LAYEBrCAKES,  85 

twice  the  size  of  the  cake  on  the  table,  and  the  moment  one  of  the 
cakes  comes  from  the  oven  turn  it  upside  down  in  the  center  of  the 
paper,  spread  it  with  a  thin  layer  of  currant  jelly,  and  lay  the^  other 
cake  on  it  upside  down,  cut  it  with  a  hot,  sharp  knife  lengthwise, 
directly  through  the  center,  then  divide  it  across  in  six  equal  parts, 
posh  them  with  the  knife  about  un  inch  apart,  and  ice  them  with 
ordinary  white  icing,  putting  a  large  dessertrspooufiil  on  every  piece; 
the  heat  of  the  cake  will  soften  it,  and  with  a  little  help  the  edgt  s 
and  sides  will  be  smoothly  covered.  All  of  the  icing  that  runs  over 
on  the  paper  may  be  carefully  taken  up  and  used  again.  It  must 
then  dry,  which  it'  will  do  very  quickly.  Make  a  horn  of  stiff  white 
paper  about  five  inches  long,  one  and  a  half  inches  across  the  top, 
and  one-eighth  of  an  inch  at  the  other  end ;  put  in  it  a  dessertrspoon 
of  dark  chocolate  icing,  close  the  horn  at  the  top,  and  pressing  oiit 
the  icing  from  the  small  opening,  draw  a  line  of  it  acioes  the  center 
•of  every  cake,  and  then  make  spots  like  those  on^^^vory- dominoes; 
keep  the  horn  supplied  with  icing. — In  Ihe  Kttmbn. 

Fig  Cake.  . 

Silver  Part. — ^Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,-  not  quite 
two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking-powder  thoroughly  sifted,  with  three  cups  flour ;  stir 
sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  milk  and  flour,  and  last  white 
of  eggs. 

Oold  Part. — One  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  tea-spoons  firing-powder  siHed  in  a  little 
more  than  one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  yolks  o^  seven  eggs  thoroughly* 
beaten,  and  one  whole  egg,  one  tea-spoon  allspice,  and  cinnamon 
until  you  can  taste  it ;  bake  the  white  in  two  long  pie-tins.  Put 
half  the  gold  in  a  pie-tin,  and  lay  on  one  pound  halved  figs  (previ 
ously  sifted  over  with  flour),  so  that  they  will  just  touch  each  other; 
pat  on  the  reS  of  the  gold,  and  bake.  Put  the  cakes  together  with 
frosting  while  warm,  the  gold  between  the  white  ones,  and  cover 
with  frosting. — Misa  I^na  Lay, 

Hard-Times  Cake. 
Half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sour  cream,  three  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  half  tea-spoon  of  soda ;  bake  in  layers  and  spread 
With  jelly. — Mrs,  R.  M,  Senderaon. 


kc 


♦  ^ 


86  LAYER'CAKES. 

Hickory-nut  Custard  Cak£. 
Cream  one  pound  sugar  and  half  pound  butter ;  add  five  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  pound  flour,  three  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  flavor  with  lemon,  and  bake  in  jelly-pans. 
For  custard,  place  one  pint  milk  in  a  tin  pail  and  set  in  boiling 
water ;  add  a  table-spoon  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  cups  chopped  hickory-nut  meats, 
well  mixed  together  to  the  boiling  milk  ;  stir,  and  put  between  the 
layers  of  the  cake,  while  both  cake  and  custard  are  warm.     This  is 

excellent. 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake. 

Beat  twelve  eggs  and  one  pound  pulverized  sugar  together  very 
lightly,  then  stir  in  three-fourths  pound  of  flour,  making  batter  as 
light  as  for  sponge-cake,  and  thin  enough  to  spread  nicely  when 
poured;  make  up  as  quickly  as  possible.  Have  shallow  tin-pans 
prepared  (about  twelve  by  eighteen  inches  and  an  inch  deep)  by^ 
lining  with  thin  brown  paper,  using  no  grease  on  pan  or  paper ; 
pour  in  batter,  spread  out  \vith  a  knife  as  thin  as  possible  (about 
half  an  inch  thick),  and  bake  in  solid  oven.  When  done,  remove 
from  oven,  let  cool  a  few  minutes,  and  while  still  warm,  but  not 
hot,  turn  out  of  pan  upside  down.  With  a  brush  or  soft  cloth  wet 
in  cold  water,  brush  over  the  paper  and  pull  it  off*;  spread  cake 
thin  with  jelly  and  roll  it  up,  being  careful  to  place  the  outer  edge 
of  roll  against  something  so  tliat  it  will  not  unroll  until  cold. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve.  If  baked  in  pans  such 
as  are  described  above,  the  recipe  will  make  two  rolls,  each  twelve 
inches  long,  which  should  be  cut  in  two,  making  four  rolls.  Use 
no  b&king-powder,  as  it  makes  the  cake  too  brittle.  Many  use 
none  in'  sponge-cake.  The  paper  lining  should  be  larger  than  pan, 
to  lift  out  the  cake  by  taking  hold  of  the  projecting  edges.  This 
jiever  fails. — C.  W.  Cyphers,  Minneapolis. 

Kelly  Island  Cake 

Oije  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  four  eggs,  half  cup 
milk,  three  tea-spoons  baking-powder;  bake  in  jelly-tins.  For 
fillmg,  stir  together  a  grated  lemon,  a.  large  grated  tart  apple,  an 
egg,  and  a  cup  sugar,  and  boil  four  minutes.  A  very  excellent 
cake. — Mm  Oredey  Orvbbs, 


LATER-CAKES.  87 

Lemon  Cake. 

One  and  one-iialf  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  of 
flour,  five  eggs  beaten 'separately,  four  tea-spoons  sweet  milk,  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  half  tea-s{)oon  soda. 

For  JeUy, — ^Take  coffee-cup  sugar,  two  table-spoons  butter,  two 
^gs,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons:  beat  all  together  and  boil  until 
the  coDsistencv  of  jelly.  For  orange  cake  use  oranges  instead  of 
lemons. — Miss  Minnie  Brown. 

Lady's  Fingers. 
One  and  one-eighth  pound  of  flour,  one  of  powdered  sugar,  ten 
^ ;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  as  light  as  for  sponge-cake  ;  sifl  in  with 
flour  one  tea-spoon  baking-powder  and  stir  slowly.  Make  a  funnel- 
shaped  bag  of  heavy  ticking  or  strong  brown  paper ;  through  the 
hole  in  the  small  end  push  a  Amnel-shaped  tin  tube,  one-third  inch 
in  diameter  at  small  end  and  provided  with  a  flange  at  the  other  to 
prevent  it  from  slipping  quite  through ;  tie  the  small  end  of  bag 
firmly  around  the  tube,  and  you  have  a  funnel-shaped  sack  with  a 
firm  nozzle  projecting  slightly  from  the  small  end.  Into  this  bag 
pour  the  batter,  over  which  gather  up  the  bag  tightly  so  that  none 
will  run  out,  press  and  run  the  dough  out  quickly  through  the 
tabe  into  a  pan  lined  with  light  brown  paper  (not  buttered),  mak- 
ing each  about  a  finger  long,  and  about  as  thick  as  a  lead-pencil, 
being  careful  not  to  get  them  too  wide.  Sprinkle  with  granulated 
Bugar,  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and,  when  cool,  wet  the  under  side 
of  the  paper  with  a  brush,  remove  and  stick  the  Angers  together 
hack  to  back.  The  bag,  when  made  of  ticking,  will  be  useful  in 
making  macaroons  and  other  small  cakes.  Unsurpassed. — Charles 
V.  Oj/pkers, 

Minnehaha  Cake. 
One  and  a  half  cups  granulated  sugar,  half  cup  butter  stirred  to 
^  cream,  whites  of  six  eggs,  or  three  whole  eggs,  two  tea-spoons 
<^D)  tartar  stirred  in  two  heaping  cups  sifted  flour,  one  tea-spoon 
^in  half  cup  sweet  milk ;  bake  in  three  layers.  For  filling,  take 
&  teaKinp  sugar  and  a  little  water  boiled  together  until  it  is  brittle 
^hen  dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from  stove  and  stir  quickly 
^to  the  well'beaten  white  of  an  egg ;  add  to  this  a  cup  of  stoned 


88  LAYEBrCAKES. 

raisiDS  chopped  fine,  or  a  cup  of  chopped  hickory-nut  meats,  and 
place  between  layers  and  over  the  top.  A  universal  fevorite. — 
ifra.  E,  W.  Herridcy 

Metropolitan  Cake. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  nearly  four  cups 
flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  tea-spoons  baking-powder,  flavor 
with  lemon.  Take  a  little  more  than  three-fifths  of  this  mixture 
in  three  jelly-tins,  add  to  the  remaining  batter  one  table-spoon 
ground  allspice,  one  and  a  half  table-spoons  cinnamon,  tea-spoon 
cloves,  fourth  pound  each  of  sliced  citron  and  chopped  rai- 
sins ;  bake  in  two  jelly-tins  and  put  together  with  frosting,  alter- 
nating dark  and  light. — Mrs.  Dr.  D.  H,  Moore,   Wedeyan  College^ 

OindnmdL 

Neapolitan  Cake. 

Black  Part,  — One  cup  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  cup  butter, 
half  cup  molasses,  half  cup  strong  coffee,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour, 
one  of  raisins,  one  of  currants,  a  tea-spoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon 
and  cloves,  and  half  tea-spoon  mace. 

While   Part, — ^Two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  of  milk, 

two  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  one   of  com   starch,  whites  of  four 

eggs,   small    tea-spoon    eream  tartar ;    make  frosting  of  whites  of 

two  eggs  to  put  between  the  layers. — Mrs,  Calista  Hawks  Gortner, 

Qosheuy 

Orange  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  one  of  water,  two  of  sugar,  four  of  flour,  three 

eggs,  three  tea-spoons  baking-powder;  bake  in  layers.     Take  the 

juice  of  two  large  or  three   small  oranges,  coflee-cup  pulverized 

sugar,  one  eg^\  mix  yolk  of  q^^,  sugar,  and  juice  together;  beat 

whites  to  a  stiff*  froth,  stir  in  and  spread  between  the  layers. — Mrs. 

W,  B.  Browriy  Washington  D,  C, 

Orange  Cake. 
Two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  three  and  a  half  cups  sifted 
flour^  half  cup  sweet  milk,  three  «3ggs  beaten  separately,  three  tea- 
spoons baking-powder  mixed  in  flour;  bake  in  jelly  pans.  For 
jelly  take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  oranges,  two  table-spoons 
cold  water,  two  cups  sugar ;  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and, 
when  scalding  hot,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and 


^ 


LA  TEBrCAKES.  89 

jost  before  taking  from  the  fire  stir  in   the  white  of  one  egg 

sligbtij  beaten,   and  when   cold  put  between  the  layers  of  cake. 

Fro6t  the  top  with  the   other   egg. — Miss  Mardie  Dolhear,  Cape 

Girardsau,  Mo, 

Oranqe  Cake. 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  two  small  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  three 

tea-spoons  baking-powder,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  three  small  cups 

flour;  bake  in  jelly-tins.     Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 

froth,  juice  and  grated  peel  of  one  orange,  sugar  to  consistency; 

put  this  between  the  layers  with  white  frosting  on  the  top. — Mrs. 

Gov.  PilUbury,  Minnesota. 

Peach  Cake. 

Bake  three  sheets  of  sponge-cake  as  for  jelly  cake ;  cut  peaches 

in  thin  slices,  prepare  cream  by  whipping,  sweetening  and  adding 

flavor  of  vanilla  if  desired,  put  layers  of  peaches  between  the  sheets 

of  cake,  pour  cream  over  each  layer  and  over  the  top.    This  may  also 

.    be  made  with  ripe  strawberries.— ifra.  Woodworth,  Springfield, 

Ribbon  Cake. 
Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk, 
tea-spoon  cream  tartar,  half  tea-spoon  soda,  four  cups  flour,  four 
eggs;  reserve  a  third  of  this  mixture,  and  bake  the  rest  in  two 
loaves  of  the  same  size.  Add  to  third  reserved,  one  cup  raisins, 
fourth  pound  citron,  a  cup  of  currants,  two  table-spoons  molasses, 
tea-spoon  each  of  all  kinds  of  spice ;  bake  in  a  tin  the  same  size  as 
other  loaves ;  put  the  three  loaves  together  with  a  little  icing  or 
currant  jelly,  placing  the  fruit  loaf  in  the  middle ;  frost  the  top 
and  sides. — Miss  Alice  Trimble,  ML  Gilead. 

Favorite  Snow-Cake. 

Beat  one  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  add  one  and  a  half  cups  flour 
and  stir  very  thoroughly  together ;  then  add  one  cup  corn  starch, 
and  one  cup  sweet  milk  in  which  three  tea-spoons  baking-powder 
Have  been  dissolved ;  last,  add  whites  of  eight  eggs  and  two  cups 
sugar  well  beaten  together ;  flavor  to  taste,  bake  in  sheets,  and  put 
t(^ther  with  icing. — Walter  Moore,  Hamilton. 

Thanksgiving  Cake. 

Make  batter  as  for  cocoa-nut  cake  (Miss  Nettie  Miller's).  Bake 
five  layers  in  jelly-tins ;  make  frosting  of  whites  of  three  eggs,  three 


90  LAYER-CAKES. 

tea-Bpoons  baking  powder,  and  three-fourths  poimd  of  pulverized 

sugar ;  with  frosting  for  first  layer  mix  rolled  hickorj-nut  meats, 

with   that  for  second   layer  mix   fine-sliced  figs,  for  third  with 

hickory-nut  meats,  fi)r  fourth  with   figs,  and  on   the  top   spread 

the  plain  frosting,  and  grate  cocoa-nut  over  thickly. — Mr»,  Jl  S. 

RdbinMn, 

Velvet  Sponge  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  six  eggs  leaving  out  the  whites  of  three,  one  cup 
boiling  hot  water,  two  and  one  half  cups  flour,  one  table-spoon 
baking-powder  in  the  flour ;  beat  the  yolks  a  little,  add  the  sugar 
and  beat  fifteen  minutes ;  add  the  three  beaten  whites,  and  the  cup 
of  boiling  water  just  before  the  flour;  flavor  with  a  tea-spoon  lemon 
extract  and  bake  in  three  layers,  putting  between  them  icing  made 
by  adding  to  the  three  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stifiT  froth,  six 
dessert-spoons  of  pulverized  sugar  to  each  egg,  and  lemon  to  flavor. 
■^Mrs.  Wm.  Brown,  MaasiUon. 

Vanity  Cake. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  half  cup  com  starch,  tearspoon  baking- 
powder,  whites  of  six  eggs ;  bake  in  two  cakes,  putting  frosting  be- 
tween and  on  top. — Olivia  8.  JSinman,  BatUe  Oreeky 

White  Mountain  Cake. 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  half  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream ; 
add  half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  two  and  a  half 
tea-spoons  baking-powder  in  the  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs ;  bake  in 
jelly-tins  and  put  together  with  icing  made  by  boiling  a  half  tea- 
cup of  water  and  three  tea-cups  sugar  till  thick ;  pour  it  slowly  over 
.the  well-beaten  whites  of  thre^  eggs,  and  beat  all  together  till  cooL 
Beat  before  putting  on  each  layer. 

Sprinkle  each  layer  thickly  with  grated  cocoa-nut,  and  a  hand 
some  cocoa-nut  cake  will  result. — Mrs.  Dr.  StaU,  Union  C%,  JnA 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  FROSTING.  91 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  FROSTING. 


Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  powdered  sugar  grad-' 
oallj,  beating  well  all  i1\e  lime.  (There  are  various  opinions  about  the 
length  of  time  frosting  should  be  beaten,  some  giving  half  an  hour, 
others  a  much  shorter  time).  Or,  break  the  whites  into  a  broad  plat- 
ter, and  ai  once  begin  adding  powdered  and  sifted  sugar,  keep  add- 
ing gradually,  beating  well  all  the  while  until  the  icing  is  perfectly 
smooth  (thirty  minutes  beating  ought  to  be  sufficient) ;  lastly,  add 
flavoring  (n>8e,  pineapple  or  almond  for  white  or  delicate  cake,  and 
lemon  or  vanilla  for  dark  or  fruit  cake).  Have  the  frosting  ready 
when  the  cake  is  baked ;  beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  stir  in  ten  heaping  tea-spoons  pulverized  sugar  (well  heaped, 
hut  not  all  that  you  can  lift  on  the  spoon)  and  one  of  corn  starch ; 
he  sure  that  it  is  thoroughly  beaten  before  taking  the  cake  from  the 
oven.  If  possible,  have  some  one  beating  while  you  take  out  the 
cake.  Now  invert  a  common  tin  milk-pan,  placing  it  on  a  clean 
paper,  so  if  any  falls  off  it  can  be  used  again,  then  place  the  cake 
on  the  pan  and  apply  frosting  ;  it  will  run  over  the  cake,  becoming 
as  smooth  aa  glass,  and  adhere  firmly  to  it.  If  but  ono  person  is 
engaged  in  preparing  cake  and  frosting,  and  must  necessarily  stop 
beating  while  getting  the  cake  in  readiness,  it  will  be  best  to  beat 
the  frosting  a  few  minutes  again  before  placing  on  cake.  As  eggs 
vary  in  sire,  some  common  sense  must  be  used  in  the  quantity  of 
the  sugar.  Practice  only  will  teach  how  stiff  icing  ought  to  be.  In 
preparing  for  a  large  party,  when  it  is  inconvenient  to  frost  each 
cake  as  it  is  taken  from  the  oven,  and  a  number  have  become  cold, 
place  them  in  Hie  oven  U)  heat  before  frosting.  If  the  cake  is  rough 
or  hrown  when  baked,  dust  with  a  little  flour,  rub  off  all  loose  par- 
ticles with  a  cloth,  put  on  frosting,  pouring  it  around  the  center  of 
the  cake,  and  smooth  off  as  quickly  as  pos.sible  with  a  knife.  If  the 
frosting  is  lather  stiff',  dip  the  knife  in  cold  water.  If  the  flavor  is 
leraon  juice,  allow  more  sugar  for  the  additional  liquid.  It  is  nice, 
vhen  the  frosting  is  almost  oold,  to  take  a  knife  and  mark  the  cake 
^  slices.    Any  ornaments,  such  as  gum  drope,  candies,  orange  flowers 


1 


92  DmEC±IONS  FOB  FR08TINQ. 

or  ribbons  should  be  put  on  while  the  icing  is  moist.    When  diy 

ornament  with  piping,  which  is  a  stiff  icing  squeezed  through  a 

paper  funnel,  and  may  be  tinted  with  colored  sugars.     If  the  above 

directions  are  followed,  the  icing  will  not  crumble.     The  recipe  for 

"  Centennial  Drops''  (see  index)  is  excellent  for  icing.     In  frosting 

sponge-cake  it  is  an  improvement  to  grate  orange  peel  over  the  cake 

before  frosting. 

Almond  FROsriNa. 

Blanch  half  pint  sweet  almonds  by  putting  them  in  boiling 

water,   stripping  off  the  skins,  and  spreading  upon  a    dry  cloth 

until  cold;  pound  a  few  of  them  at  a  time  in  a  mortar  till  well 

pulverized;  mix  carefully  whites  of  three  eggs  and  threeK][uarter8 

pint  powdered  sugar,  add  almonds,  fiavor  with  a  tea-spoon  vanilla 

or  lemon,  and  dry  in  a  cool  oven  or  in  the  open  air  when  weather 

is  pleasant. 

Boiled  Frosting. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  large  cup 
granulated  sugar  moistened  with  four  table-spoons  hot  water ;  boil 
sugar  briskly  for  five  minutes  or  until  it  "jingles"  on  the  bottom  of 
the  cup  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  or  "  ropes"  or  threads  when 
dropped  from  the  end  of  the  spoon.  Then,  with  lefl  hand,  pour  the 
boiling  syrup  upon  the  beaten  eggs  in  a  small  stream,  while  beat- 
ing hard  with  right  hand.  This  is  an  excellent  frosting.  If  pre- 
ferred, add  half  pound  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  pounded  to  a 
paste,  or  a  cup  of  hickory-nut  meats,  chopped  fine,  and  it  will  be 
perfectly  delicious.  This  amount  will  frx)st  the  top  of  two  large 
cakes. — Mrs.  A.  S,  C. 

Chocolate  Frosting. 

Six  rounded  table-spoons  grated  chocolate,  one  and  a  half  cups 
powdered  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs;  beat  the  whites  but  very 
little  (they  must  not  become  white),  add  the  chocolate,  stir  it  in; 
then  pour  in  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  to  mix  it  well. — In  the 
KUchen. 

Frosting. 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually  half 
pound  best  pulverized  sugar,  beat  well  for  at  least  half  an  hour, 
flavor  with  lemon  juice  (and  some   add   tartaric   acid,   as    both 


f 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  FROSTING.  93 

whiten  the  icing).  To  color  a  delicate  pink,  use  strawberry , 
currant  or  cranberry;  or  the  grated  peeling  of  an  orange  or  lemon 
moistened  with  the  juice  and  squeezed  through  a  thin  doth,  will 
color  a  handsome  yellow.  This  amount  will  frost  one  large  cake. 
— ArTB.    rr.  rr.  W. 

Frosting  with  Gelatine. 

Dissolve  large  pinch  gelatine  in  six  table-spoons  boiling  water; 
strain  and  thicken  with  sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon.  This  is 
enough  to  frost  two  cakes. — Mrs,  W.  A,  J". 

Frosting  without  Eggs. 
To  one  heaping  tea-spoon  Poland  starch  and  just  enough  cold 
water  to  dissolve  it,  add  a  little  hot  water  and  cook  in  a  basin  set  in 
hot  water  till  very  thick  (or  cook  in  a  crock;  either  will  prevent  its 
burning  or  becoming  lumpy).  Should  the  sugar  be  lumpy  roll  it 
thoroughly,  and  stir  in  two  and  two-thirds  cups  while  the  starch  is 
hot;  flavor  to  taste,  and  spread  on  while  the  cake  is  a  little  warm. 
This  should  be  made  the  day  before  using,  as  it  takes  longer  «to 
harden  than  when  made  with  eggs,  but  it  will  never  crumble  in 
cutting.     This  is  excellent. — Mrs,  Ola  Kellogg  Wilcox. 

Minnesota  Frosting. 

Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  until  frothy,  not  white,  add  one  and  a 

third  pints   powdered   sugar  gradually    with    one  hand,    beating 

briskly  with  the  other.     Flavor  with  a  tea-spoon  of  vanilla.     It  is 

better  not  to  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  before  adding 

sugar,  as  it  makes  the  icing  very  hard  to  dry. — Mrs,  C.  J,,  Winona, 

Mmn, 

Ornamental  Frosting. 

Draw  a  small  syringe  full  of  the  icing  and  work  it  in  any  design 

you  fency ;   wheels,  Grecian  borders,  flowers,  or  borders  of  bead- 

mg  look  well. — Mrs,  M.  J.  W. 

Yellow  Frosting. 

The  yolk  of  one  egg  to  nine  heaping  tea-8poons4^1verized  sugar, 

and  flavor  with  vanilla.     Use  the   same  day  it  is  made. — Mrs. 

J.  &  W. 

Rose  Coloring. 

Mix  together  one-fourth  ounce  each  of  powdered  alum  and  cream 

tartar,  one  ounce  powdered  cochineal,  four  ounces  loaf-sugar,  and 


94  CRULLERS  AND  DOUOHNUT& 

a  salt-spoon  soda.  Boil  b&a  minutes  in  a  pint  pure  soft  water* 
when  cool  bottle  and  cork  i^r  use.  This  is  used  for  jellies,  cake» 
ice-cream,  etc. — Mrs    W.  E.  H.,  Minneapolu. 


CRULLERS  AND   DOUGHNUTS. 


To  cook  these  properly  the  fat  should  be  of  the  right  heat^ 
When  hot  enough  it  will  cease  to  bubble  and  be  perfectly  still; 
try  with  a  bit  of  the  batter,  and  if  the  heat  is  right  the  dough 
will  rise  in«a  few  seconds  to  the  top  and  occasion  a  bubbling  in  the 
fat,  the  cake  will  swell,  and  the  under  side  quickly  become  brown. 
Clarified  drippings  of  roast  meat  are  more  wholesome  to  fry  them 
in  than  lard.  A  good  suet  may  be  prepared  as  follows  for  those 
who  are  sensible  enough  not  to  like  greasy  doughnuts  or  who  He- 
braically  oppose  lard.  Use  only  beef  suet,  which  is  quite  as  cheap, 
cleanly,  and  healthy.  Buy  from  the  meat  markets,  speaking  before 
hand,  and  securing  nice,  whole,  clean  leaves,  which  cut  up  in  small 
pieces,  put  into  a  dinner-pot,  which  will  hold  well  about  ten  pounds. 
Put  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  after  the  first  hour  stir  frequently ;  it 
takes  about  three  hours  with  a  good  heat  to  render  it.  Drain 
through  a  coarse  towel,  and  if  the  suet  is  good  it  will  require  but 
little  squeezing,  and  leave  but  little  scrap  or  cracklings.  Put  to 
cool  in  pans  or  jars,  and  you  have  an  element  into  which,  when  well 
heated,  you  can  drop  the  twisted  goodies,  with  the  assurance  that 
they  will  not  only  be  "  done  brown,'*  but  that  they  will  emerge  with 
a  flavor  and  grain  that  will  commend  them  to  the  fiivor  of  an  epi- 
cure. Doughnuts  thus  cooked  are  more  digestible  and  of  better 
flavor  than  if  co^ed  in  lard,  and  the  most  fastidious  will  not  need 
to  peel  them  b^ve  eating.  Make  the  dough  as  soft  as  it  can  be 
hujidled;  if  cut  about  half  an  inch  thick,  five  to  eight  minutes  will 
be  time  enough  to  cook,  but  it  is  better  to  break  one  open  as  a  test. 
When  done,  drain  well  in  a  skimmer,  and  place  in  a  colander.  The 
use  of  eggs  prevents  the  doygh  from  absorbing  the  fat.  Doughnuts 
should  be  watched  closely  while  frying,  and  the  fire  must  be  regU' 


CRULLERS  AND  BOUOHNTJT&  95 

'%ted  very  carefully.  When  you  hav^'finished  frying,  cut  a  potato 
in  slicee  and  put  in  the  fitt  to  clarify  .k,  place  the  kettle  away  until 
the  &t  "  settles/'  strain  into  an  earthen  pot  kept  for  this  purpose, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.  The  sediment  remaining  in  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle  may  be  used  for  soap-grease.  Fry  in  an  iron  kettle,  the 
common  skillet  being  too  shallow  for  the  purpose.  Do  not  eat 
doughnuts  between  April  and  November.  Crullers  are  better  the 
day  after  they  are  made. '  If  lard  is  not  fresh  and  sweet,  slice  a  raw 
potato,  and  fry  before  putting  in  the  cakes. 


Crullers. 

Two  co£fee-cup6  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  a  heaping 

table-spoon  butter,  three  tea-spoons  baking-powder  mixed  with  six 

cups  flour,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  level  tea-spoon  cinnamon.     Beat 

^gs,  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  milk,  spices  and  flour;  put 

another  cup  flour  on  molding-board,  turn  the  dough  out  on  it,  and 

knead  until  stifl"  enough  to  roll  out  to  a  quarter  inch  thick ;   cut 

in  squares,  make  three  or  four  long  incisions  in  each  square,  lift 

by  taking  alternate  strips   between   the  finger  and  tnumb,  drop 

into  hot  lard,  and  cook  like  doughnuts. — Mrs.  A.  F.  Zieglety  Oh 

Iwnbmy 

Fried  Cakes. 

One  coflee-cup  of  not  too  thick  sour  cream,  or   one   of   soiS?*   ^ 
milk  and  one  table-spoon  of  butter,  two  eggs,    a  little   nutmeg 
and  salt,  one  tea-cup  sugar,  one* small  tea-spoon  soda  dissolved; 
mix  soft. — Mrs,  S.  Watson, 

Corn  Meal  Doughnuts. 

A  tea-cup  and  a  half  boiling  milk  poured  over  two  tea-cups  meal ; 

when  cool  add  two  cups  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  of 

sugar,  three  eggs;   flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnunon;  let  rise  till 

very  light ;  roll  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  iSliamond  shape, 

and  boU  in  hot  lard. 

Cream  Doughnuts. 

Beat  one  cup  each  of  sour  cream  and  sugar  and  two  eggs  to- 
gether, add  level  tea-spoon  soda,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to 
roll.— Ifrs.  MaUie  Meade, 


96  CB  ULLEBS  AND  DO  UQHN  UTS. 

Doughnuts. 
One  egg,  a  cup  rich  milk,  a  cup  sugar,  three  pints  flour,  three 
tea-spoons  baking  powder,  (or  one  and  a  half  measures  Horsford's 
Bread  Preparation).     These  are  made  richer  by  adding  one  egg, 
and  one  tea-spoon  butter. — Mrs.  JenkSj 

North  Star  Doughnuts. 
One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  of  sour  milk,  half  cup  butter, 
three  eggs,  a  level  tea-spoon  soda,  spice  to  taste,  and  flour  to  roll. — « 
Mrs.  A.  J.  Palmes, 

Raised  Doughnuts. 

Peel  and  boil  four  good  sized  potatoes ;  mash  fine,  and  pour  boil- 
ing water  over  them  until  of  the  consistency  of  gruel;  let  cool,  add 
a  yeast  cake,  and  a  little  flour;  let  rise  till  light,  then  add  one  pint 
sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  (large  meas- 
ure) lard,  a  salt-spoon  salt,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon ;  stir  in 
flour  until  stifi*,  let  rise  again,  then  add  a  half  tea-spoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk,  pour  out  on  molding  board,  mix  stifi"  enough 
to  cut  out,  and  roll  to  half  an  inch  thickness ;  cut  in  long  strips  two 
inches  wide  and  divide  diagonally  into  pieces  three  inches  long,  set 
where  it  is  warm,  let  rise  on  the  board  until  light,  and  then  fry. 
These  do  not  cook  through  as  easily  as  others,  and  it  is  safer  to  drop 
in  one,  and,  by  breaking  it  open,  learn  the  time  required  for  them 
to  fry.  A  very  nice  variation  of  this  recipe  may  be  made  as  follows: 
Boll  part  of  the  dough  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  small 
biscuit,  let  rise,  and  when  light,  roll  down  a  little,  lay  a  few  raisins 
rolled  in  cinnamon  in  the  center,  wet  the  edges  by  dipping  the  finger 
in  cold  water  and  passing  it  over  them ;  draw  them  together  and 
press  fimdy,  and  dirop  them  in  the  hot  fat.  A  tea-spoon  of  apple- 
butter  or  any  kind  of  jam  may  be  used  instead  of  the  raisins. 
When  made  with  the  raisins,  they  are  the  real  German  "Oily 
Koeks,"— M«.  Jl  L.  H., 

Berlin  Pancakes. 

Roll  out  dough  sligkUy  sweetened  and  shortened,  as  if  for  very 
plain  doughnuts ;  cut  in  circles  like  biscuit,  put  a  tea-spoon  currant 
jam  or  jelly  on  the  center  of  one,  lay  another  upon  it,  press  the 
edges  tightly  together  with  the  fingers,  and  fry  quickly  in  boiling 


COOKIES  AND  JUMBLES.  97 

6t    They  will  be  perfect  globes  when  done,  a  little  smaller  than 
an  orange. — Jfra.  L.  8,  TFtKiston,  Meiddberg^  Cfermany. 

Tbifles. 
A  quart  flour,  a  cup  sugar,  two  table-spoons  melted  butter,  a 
little  salt,  two  tea-spoons  baking  powder,  one  egg,  and  sweet  milk 
sufficient  to  make  rather  stiff;  roll  out  in  thin  sheets,  cut  in  pieces 
about  two  by  four  inches ;  make  as  many  cuts  across  the  short  way 
as  possible^  inserting  the  knife  near  one  edge  and  ending  the  cut 
just  before  reaching  the  other.  Pass  two  knitting-needles  under 
every  other  strip,  spread  the  needles  as  &r  apart  as  possible,  and 
with  them  hold  the  trifles  in  the  fat  until  a  light  brown.  Only  one 
can  be  fried  at  a  time. — JUiss  EUie  Dalbey,  Harrisburg. 


COOKIES  AND  JUMBLES. 


These  require  a  quick  oven.  A  nice  *' finishing  touch*'  can  he 
giyen  by  sprinkling  them  with  granulated  sugar  and  rolling  over 
lightly  with  the  rolling  pin,  then  cutting  out  and  pressing  a  whole 
raisin  in  the  center  of  each ;  or  when  done  a  very  light  brown,  brush 
oyer  while  still  hot  with  a  soft  bit  of  rag  dipped  in  a  thick  syrup 
of  sugar  and  water,  sprinkle  with  currants  and  return  to  the  oven 
a  moment. 


Ada's  Sugar  Cakes. 
Three  cups  sugar,  two  of  butter,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tea- 
spoon soda,  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out. 

Cookies. 
One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  cold  water,  half  tea-spoon 
«oda,  two  eggs  and  just  flour  enough  to  roll. — Mrs.  Mary  F.  Orr. 

Egoless  Cookies. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  milk,  one  of  butter,  half  tea-spoon  nut* 
10%,  half  tea-spoon  soda,  flour  to  make  thick  enough  to  roll. 


98  COOKIES  AND  JUMBLES. 

Enoubh  Gookieb. 

One  ounce  of  ammonia  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  milk  overnight, 

four  eggs,  four  cups  of  sugar,  two  of  butter,  one  table-spoon  of  salt, 

currants  and  candied  orange-peel  to  taste ;  mix  soft     Unrivaled. — 

Mn,  HiekSy  Macon. 

OooD  Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sour  cream  or  milk,  three 
eggs,  one  tearspoon  soda ;  mix  soft,  roll  thin,  sift  granulated  sugar 
over  them,  and  gently  roll  it  in. — Mrs.  Judge  West,  BeU^ardaine. 

NXTTMEG  COOKIEB. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  two-thirds  cup 
sour  milk,  nutmeg  or  caraway  seed  for  flavor,  two  eggs,  half  tea- 
spoon soda,  and  six  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  roll.  Boll  thin,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Confederate  Jumbles. 

One  and  a  half  cups  white  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  three 
eggs,  three  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  half  tea-spoon  soda  and  one  of 
cream  tartar;  mix  with  sufficient  flour  to  roll;  roll  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar;  cutout  and  bake. — Mrs.  MoUie  PUcher^  JacHaon. 

Nashville  Pepper-nuts. 

One  pound  sugar,  five  eggs,  half  pound  butter,  half  tea-cup 

milk,  two    tea-spoons  baking-powder,  flour  enough  to  roll. — Mrs. 
Emma  O.  Rea. 

Lemon  Snaps. 

A  large  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  half  tea-spoon  soda 
dissolved  in  two  tea-spoons  hot  water,  flour  enough  to  roll  thin; 
flavor  with  lemon. — Mrs.  E.  L.  C,  Springfield. 

Sand  Tarts. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  three  of  flour,  two  eggs,  leaving 
out  the  white  of  one ;  roll  out  thin  and  cut  in  square  cakes  with  a 
knife;  spread  the  white  of  egg  on  top,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and 
sugar,  and  press  a  blanched  almond  or  raisin  in  the  center. — Miss 
Qara  O.  PhellU. 


QINGER'BREAD,  99 


GINGER-BEEAD. 


'  If  in  making  ginger-bread  the  dough  becomes  too  stiff  before  it  is 
rolled  out,  set  it  before  the  fire.  Snaps  will  not  be  crisp  if  made  on 
a  rainy  day.  Ginger-bread  and  cakes  require  a  moderate  oven, 
soaps  a  quick  one.  If  cookies  or  snaps  become  moist  in  keeping, 
put  them  in  the  oven  and  heat  them  for  a  few  moments.  Always 
use  New  Orleans  or  Porto  Rico  molasses,  and  never  syrups.  Soda 
is  used  to  act  on  the  '*  spirit"  of  the  molasses.  In  making  the  old* 
&sliioned,  soft,  square  cakes  of  ginger-bread,  put  a  portion  of  the 
dough  on  a  well-floured  tin  sheet,  roll  evenly  to  each  side,  trim  off 
evenlj  around  the  edges,  and  mark  off  in  squares  with  a  floured 
knife  or  wheel  cutter.  In  this  way  the  dough  may  be  softer  than 
where  it  is  necessary  to  pick  up  to  remove  from  board  after  rolling 
and  cutting.  Always  have  the  board  well  covered  with  flour  before 
roUicg  all  kinds  of  soft  ginger-breads,  as  they  are  liable  to  stick,  and 
should  always  be  mixed  as  soft  as  they  can  be  handled. 

Ginger  Cake  with  Spice. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  two  of  Jour,  one  of  sugar,  scant  half 
cup  molasses,  with  half  a  tea-spoon  soda  stirred  in  it  until  it  foams, 
half  a  wine-glass  of  brandy,  half  a  table-spoon  of  ginger,  a  half  of 
cinnamon,  and  a  half  of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed.  Mix  ingredi- 
ents, leaving  whites  of  eggs  until  last;  next  to  last,  molasses.  Fruit 
may  be  added. 

Training  Day  Ginger-bread. 

One  gallon  molasses  or  strained  honey,  one  and  a  quarter  pounds 
butter,  quarter  pound  soda  stirred  in  a  half  tea-cup  sweet  milk,  tea- 
8p(X)n  alum  dissolved  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  flour  to  make 
it  stiff  enough  to  roll  out;  put  the  molasses  in  a  very  large  dish, 
add  the  soda  and  butter  melted,  then  all  the  other  ingredients;  mix 
in  the  evening  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night ;  in  the 
morning  kn^ad  it  a  long  time  like  bread,  roll  into  squares  half  an 
mch  thick,  and  bake  in  bread-pans  in  an  oven  heated  about  right 
for  bread.     To  make  it  glossy,  rub  over  the  top  just  before  putting 


100  QINQEBrBREAD. 

it  into  the  oven  the  following:  One  well-beaten  e^^  the  same  amount 
or  a  little  more  sweet  cream,  stirring  cream  and  egg  well  together. 
This  ginger-bread  will  keep  an  unlimited  time.  The  recipe  is  com- 
plete without  ginger,  but  two  table-spoons  may  be  used  if  preferred* 
— Over  fifty  years  old,  and  formerly  vxedjorr  general  muster  days. 

Excellent  Soft  Ginoer-br^l^d. 
One  and  a  half  cups  Orleans  molasses,  half  cup  brown  sugar, 
half  cup  butter,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  tea-spoon  soda,  tea-spoon  all- 
spice, half  tea-spoon  ginger ;  mix  all  together  thoroughly,  add  three 
cups  sifted  flour  and  bake  in  shallow  pans. — Mrs.  S.  W 

Sfonoe  Ginger-bkead. 
One  cup  sour  milk,  one  of  Orleans  molasses,  a  half  cup  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  tearspoon  soda,  one  table-spoon  ginger,  flour  to  make 
as  thick  as  pound  cake;  put  butter,  molasses  and  ginger  together, 
make  them  quite  warm,  add  the  milk,  flour,  eggs  and  soda,  and 
bake  as  soon  as  possible. — Mrs,  M,  M,  M 

Ginger  Cookies. 
Two  cups  molasses,  one  of  lard,  one  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  sour 
milk,  table-spoon  ginger,  three  tea-spoons  soda  stirred  in  the  flour 
and  one  in  the  milk,  two  ^gs.  — Mm  Tina  Lay^ 

Ginger  Cookies. 
One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  mplasses,  one  table-spoon  soda^ 
one  of  vinegar,  one  of  ginger ;  roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

Ginger  Cakes. 
One  quart  Orleans  molasses,  pint  lard  or  butter,  pint  buttermilk, 
two  table-spoons  soda,  two  table-spoons  ginger,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stifle  batter ;  pour  the  molasses  and  milk  boiling  hot  into  a  large 
tin  bread-pan  in  which  have  been  placed  the  ginger  and  soda  (the 
pan  must  be  large  enough  to  prevent  running  over)  ;  stir  in  all  the 
flour  possible,  after  which  stir  in  the  lard  or  butter ;  when  cold, 
mold  with  flour  and  cut  in  cakes.  Care  must  be  taken  to  follow 
these  directions  implicitly  or  the  cakes  will  not  be  good;  remember 
to  add  the  lard  or  bvUer  last,  and  buttermilk,  not  sour  milk,  must  be 
used;  boil  the  molasses  in  a  skillet,  and  after  pouring  it  into  the 
pan,  put  the  buttermilk  in  the  same  skillet,  boil  and  pour  it  over 


I 


QINQEBrBREAD,  101 

the  molasses,  ginger  and  soda.  This  exceUent  recipe  was  kept  as  a 
secret  for  a  long  time^by  a  professional  baker. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Hear 
denon. 

Ginger  Drop-Cakes. 

Take  three  eggs,  one  cup  lard,  one  of  baking  molasses,  one  of 
brown  sugar,  one  large  table-spoon  ginger,  one  table-spoon  soda 
dissolved  in  a  cup  of  boiliug  water,  five  cups  unsifted  flour;  drop 
table-spoons  of  this  mixture  into  a  slightly  greased  dripping-pnn 
about  three  inches  apart. — Mrs.  X.  McAUieter. 

Best  Ginger-drops. 
Half  cup  sugar,  a  cup  molasses,  half  cup  butter^  one  tea-spoon 
each  cinnamon,  ginger  and  cloves,  two  tea-spoons  soda  in  a  cup 
boiling  water,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour ;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs 
the  last  thing  before  baking.'  Baked  in  gem-tins  or  as  a  common, 
gmger-bread,  and  eaten  **'arm  with  a  sauce,  they  make  a  nicer  des- 
sert— Mrs.  C.  HawkSy 

Ginger-snaps. 
Two  cups  molasses,  one  of  lard,  one  table-spoon  soda,  one  of 
gbger,  flour  to  roll  stifi! — Miss  Mary  Gallagher, 

Ginger-snaps. 

One  pound  and  six  ounces  flour,  four  of  sugar,  eight  of  butter, 

six  of  preserved  orange  peel,  half  pint  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoon 

soda  dissolved  in  two  tablenspooiis  boiling  water,  one  tea-spoon  cloves, 

two  of  ginger.     Soften  the  butter  and  mix  it  with  the  sugar  and 

molasses,  add  the  spices,  orange  pt^^el  and  soda,  beat  well  and  stir  in 

the  flour,  flour  the  board  and  roll  the  paste  as  thin  as  possible,  cut 

in  circles  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven.     This  quantity  makes 

one  hundred  and  twenty-nine  snaps,  about  three  inches  across.— Jr* 

ik  KUdien. 

Hotel  Ginger-snaps. 

One  gallon  molasses,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  quart  melted 

batter,  half  cup  each  ground  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon  and  ginger, 

one  cup  soda. — Mrs.  Hattie  Clemmons. 

Molasses  Cake. 
One  cap  each  of  butter,  sugar,  sour  milk  and  molasses,  five  cups 
flour,  two  eggs,  one  tablewspoon  soda,  one  of  ginger. — Mrs,  A.  J. 
Palmes. 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 


For  creams  and  custards  eggs  should  never  be  beaten  in  tin,  btu 
always  in  stone  or  eai*then  ware,  as  there  is  some  chemical  influence 
about  tin  which  prevents  their  attaining  that  creamy  lightness  so 
desirable.  Beat  quickly  and  sharply  right  through  the  eggs,  beat- 
ing whites  and  yolks  separately.  When  gelatine  is  used  for  creams, 
it  is  better  to  soak  it  for  an  hour  in  a  little  cold  water  c»r  milk,  set 
in  a  warm  place ;  (it  is  convenient  to  place  in  a  bowl  set  in  the 
top  of  the  boiling  tea-kettle  to  dissolve;)  when  dissolved,  pour  into 
the  hot  custard  just  after  removing  from  the  stove.  For  custards 
the  common  rule  is  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  and  one  small  half 
tea-spoon  salt  to  each  quart  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  b&king-dish  until 
firm  in  the  center,  taking  care  that  the  heat  is  moderate  or  tlie 
custard  will  turn  in  part  to  whey.  The  delicacy  of  the  custtird 
depends  on  its  being  baked  slowly.  It  is  much  nicer  to  strain  the 
yolks,  after  they  are  beaten,  through  a  tmall  wire  strainer  kept  for 
this  purpose  by  every  good  housekeeper.  For  boiled  custards  or 
floats  the  yolks  alone  may  be  used,  or  for  economy's  sake  the  entire 
(^jrgs.  Always  place  the  milk  to  boil  in  a  custard-kettle  (made  of 
iron  with  another  iron  kettle  inside,  the  latter  lined  with  tin),  or, 
in  a  pan  or  pail  set  within  a  kettle  of  bailing  water;  when  the  milk 
reaches  the  boiling  point,  which  is  shown  by  a  slight  foam  rising 
on  top,  add  the  sugar,  which  cools  it  so  that  the  eggs  will  not  curdle 
when  added.  Or,  another  convenient  way  is  to  mix  the  beaten 
and  strained  yolks  with  the  sugar  in  a  bowl,  then  add  gradually 
several  spoons  of  the  boiling  milk,  until  the  eggs  and  sugar  are 

(102) 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  103 

heated  through,  when  they  may  be  slowly  stirred  into  the  boiling 
milk.  Let  remain  a  few  moments,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
thickens  a  little,  but  not  long  enough  to  curdle,  then  either  set  the 
pail  immediately  in  cold  water  or  turn  out  into  a  cold  dish,  as  it 
curdles  if  allowed  to  remain  in  a  hot  basin  ;  add  flavoring  extracts 
after  removing  from  the  stove.  Peach  leaves  or  vanilla  beans  give 
a  fine  flavor,  but  must  be  boiled  in  the  milk  and  then  taken  out 
before  the  other  ingredients  are  added.  Boiled  custards  are  very 
difficult  to  make,  and  must  have  the  closest  attention  until  they 
are  finished.  The  custards  may  be  prepared  as  above,  mixing  the 
milk,  eggs  and  sugar,  and  then  placing  in  pan  to  steam  instead  of 
boiling. 

In  making  ckarloUe-rus&e  it  is  not  necessary  to  add  gelatine. 
The  filling  may  be  made  of  well- whipped  cream,  flavored  and 
sweetened,  using  a  **  whip-chum  "  or  the  "  Dover  Egg-beater  "  to 
do  the  whipping.  Fill  the  mold  (which  should  be  first  wet  with 
cold  water  for  c?iarlotte-ni8se  and  blane  mange^  and  all  creams) 
and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  If  preferred,  it  may  be  made  up  in 
several  small  molds,  one  for  each  person.  In  the  use  of  spices  it 
IB  well  to  remember  that  allspice  and  cloves  are  used  with  meats, 
and  nutmegs  and  cinnamon  in  combination  with  sugar.  The  white 
part  of  lemon  rind  is  exceedingly  bitter,  and  the  outer  peel  only 
should  be  used  for  grating.  A  better  way  is  to  rub  the  rind  off 
with  hard  lumps  of  sugar.  The  sugar  thus  saturated  with  the  oil 
of  the  lemon  is  called  '^  zest,"  and  is  used,  pounded  fine,  for  creams, 

etc.  

Bohemian  Creams. 

One  quart  cream,  two  table-spoons  sugar,  one  ounce  gelatine 
soaked  in  water  until  dissolved ;  whip  half  the  cream  (rich  milk 
may  be  substituted  for  cream)  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  boil  the  other  half 
with  the  sugar  and  a  vanilla  bean  until  a  flavor  is  extracted  (or 
vanilla  extract  may  be  added  just  after  it  is  removed  from  the  fire), 
take  ofi*  the  fire,  add  the  gelatine,  and  when  cooled  a  little  stir  in 
the  weU-beaten  yolks  of  the  four  eggs.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to 
thicken,  stir  steadily  until  smooth,  when  add  the  whipped  cream, 
beating  it  in  lightly.     Mold  and  set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

To  flavor  with  strawberries,  strain  two  pounds  berries  through  a 


104  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 

colander,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  to  the  dissolved  gelatine,  set  on  ioe, 
and  when  it  thickens  stir  until  smooth,  add  the  whipped  cream  ajs 
above,  and  mold. 

To  flavor  with  peach,  boil  a  dozen  and  a  half  choice  fruit,  sweeten 
and  strain  through  a  colander ;  add  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  a  tea- 
cup of  cream,  set  on  ice,  and  when  it  thickens  stir  until  smooth, 
add  the  whipped  cream,  and  mold. 

To  flavor  with  pine-apple,  cut  fine,  boil  with  half  a  pound  pul% 
verized  sugar,  strain  through  a  colander,  add  the  dissolved  gela-> 
tine,  set  on  ice,  and  when  it  thickens  stir  until  smooth,  add  the 
whipped  cream,  and  mold.  Canned  pine-apples  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  fresh.  In  all  these  never  add  whipped  cream  until  the 
mass  is  cool  and  begins  to  thicken. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Jones,  PUUburghy  Pa. 

Charlottk-Russe. 
Cut  stale  s]X)nge-cake  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick  and 
line  three  molds  with  them,  leaving  a  space  of  half  an  inch  be- 
tween each  slice ;  set  the  molds  where  they  will  not  be  disturbed 
until  the  filling  is  ready ;  take  a  deep  tin  pan  and  fill  about  one- 
third  full  of  either  snow  or  pounded  ice,  and  into  this  set  another 
pan  that  will  hold  at  least  four  quarts.  Into  a  deep  bowl  or  jmil 
(a  whip-churn  is  better)  put  one  and  a  half  pints  of  cream  (if  the 
cream  is  thick  tiike  one  pint  of  cream  and  a  half  pint  of  milk), 
whip  to  a  froth,  and  when  the  bowl  is  full,  skim  the  froth  into  the 
pan  which  is  standing  on  the  ice,  and  repeat  this  until  the  cream  is 
all  froth  ;  then  with  the  spoon  draw  the  froth  to  one  side,  and  you 
will  find  that  some  of  the  cream  has  gone  back  to  milk ;  turn 
this  into  the  bowl  again,  and  whip  as  before ;  when  the  cream  is 
all  whipi^ed,  stir  into  it  two-thirds  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  and  half  a  box  gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  enough  to  cover  it  for  one  hour  and  then  dissolved  in 
boiling  water  enough  to  dissolve  it  (about  half  a  cup),  stir  from  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  until  it  begins  to  grow  stiff;  fill  the  molds  and 
set  them  on  the  ice  in  the  pan  for  one  hour,  or  until  ihey  are  sent 
to  the  table.  When  ready  to  dish  them,  loosen  lightly  at  the  sides 
and  turn  out  (Jn  a  flat  dish  ;  have  the  cream  ice-cold  when  you  be- 
gin to  whip  it,  and  it  is  a  good  plan  to  put  a  lump  of  ice  into  the 
cream  while  whipping  it. — M.  Parloa. 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS,  105 

Charlottb-Russe. 
Split  two  dozen  lady-fingers  (slices  of  sponge  or  other  cake  may 
be  used),  lay  them  in  a  mold,  put  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine 
into  half  pint  of  milk,  place  it  where  it  will  be  warm  enough  to 
diaaolve.  Whip  three  pints  of  cream  to  a  froth,  and  keep  it  cool, 
beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  mix  with  half  pound  powdered 
sugar,  then  beat  the  whites  very  stiff,  and  add  to  it,  strain  the  gela- 
tine up)n  these,  stirring  quickly ;  then  add  the  cream,  flavor  w^th 
vanilla  or  lemon,  pour  over  the  cake,  let  stand  upon  ice  two  hours. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Some  add  a  layer  of  jelly  at  bottom 
of  mold. — Mr%,  Ida  M,  DoTuiUhon,  Springdale,  Col, 

Charlotte-Russe. 
One  ounce  gelatine  dissolved  in  two  gills  of  boiling  milk,  whites 
of  foar  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  and  a  half  cups  white  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  pint  thick  cream  whipped  to  a  froth,  and  rose-water 
or  vanilla  for  flavoring ;  line  a  large  mold  with  thick  slices  of  sponge- 
cake, mix  the  gelatine,  sugar,  cream  and  flavoring  together,  add 
lightly  the  frothed  whites  of  the  eggs,  pour  into  mold,  set  away  on 
ice  till  required  for  use.  This  is  an  easy  and  excellent  mode  of 
making  this  most  delicate  dessert. — Mrs,  F.  O.  Hush 

Hamburg  Cream. 

Stir  together  the  rind  and  jnioe  of  two  large  lemons,  and  oneenp 
sugar,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  eight  eggs ;  put  all  in  a  tin  pai], 
set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  stir  for  three  minutes,  take  from  the 
fire,  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  sefve,  when  cold, 
b  custard-glasses. — Mrs.  C.  FuUington, 

Italian  Cream. 
Soak  one-third  box  gelatine  half  an  hour  in  cold  milk,  put  a  quart 
milk  on  to  boil,  and  when  boiling  stir  in  yolks  of  eight  eggs  well 
beaten,  add  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  the  gelatine;  when  the 
custard  begins  to  thicken,  take  it  ofl*  and  pour  into  a  deep  dish  in 
which  the  eight  whites  have  been  beaten  to  a  stifi*  froth ;  mix  well 
together  and  flavor  to  taste;  put  in  molds,  and  allow  four  hours  to 
cool.  This  cream  is  much  more  easily  made  in  winter  than  in  sum- 
mer.—Jfr«.  N.  p.  WU£s 


106  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS, 

a 

Bock  Cream. 
Boil  one  cup  rice  in  a  custard-kettle  in  sweet  milk  until  soft,  add 
two  table-spoons  loaf-sugar,  a  salt-spoon  salt ;  pour  into  a  dish  and 
place  on  it  lumps  of  jelly ;  beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  and  three 
table-spoons  pulverized  sugar  to  a  stiff  iroth,  flavor  to  taste,  add  one 
table-spoon  rich  cream,  and  drop  the  mixture  on  the  rice. — Miss 
lAbbie  S.  WilcoXy  Madison. 

Raspberry  Cream. 
One  quart  good  cream,  one  pint  fresh  raspberries ;  mash  and  inib 
the  fruit  through  a  fine  sieve  or  strainer,  to  extract  the  seeds,  bring 
the  cream  to  a  boil  (having  reserved  one  pint  for  froth),  and  add  it 
to  the  berries  while  it  remains  hot,  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar  to 
taste,  let  it  become  cold.  Now  raise  cream  which  has  been  reserved 
to  a  froth  with  a  beater,  take  off  the  froth  and  lay  it  on  a  sieve  to 
drain ;  fill  dish  or  glasses  with  the  cream  and  place  froth  on  top. 
Very  nice.  Any  kind  of  berries,  jam  or  jelly  is  good,  and  can  be 
used  without  straining. 

Spanish  Cream. 

One  box  Coxe's  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  cold  milk ;  into  two 

quarts  boiling  milk  stir  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar  and  the  yolks 

of  eight  eggs ;  pour  all  upon  the  dissolved  gelatine,  stirring  welL 

When  cool  add  half  a  pint  wine,  or  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla, 

place  in  dishes  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten 

whites,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  one  cup  sugar ;  brown  in  oven 

two  minutes  and  eat  ice-cold. — Susan  S.  Howard,  BrooMyn,  New 

York. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

Soak  over  night  two  table-spoons  tapioca  in  one-half  tearcup  milk 

(or  enough  to  cover);  bring  one  quart  milk  to  boiling  point;  beat 

well  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  half  tea-cup  sugar,  and  one 

tea-spoon  lemon  or  vanilla  for  flavoring,  add  the  tapioca,  and  stir 

the  whole  into  the  boiling  milk,  let  boil  once,  turn  into  the  dish, 

and  immediately  spread  on  the  whites.    Serve  when  eold, — Mrs.  R 

M.  Henderson. 

Whipped  Cream. 

Place  cream  over  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled,  and  whip  with  an 

egg-beater  or  whip-chum  until  it  froths.     While  whipping  place 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  107 

froth  on  a  sieve,  and  return  to  bowl  to  be  re-whipped  all  that  passes 
through.  When  cream  is  difficult  to  whip,  add  to  it  and  beat  with 
it  the  white  of  an  egg.  Sweetened  and  flavored  this  is  a  choice 
dessert  alone,  but  it  may  be  served  in  various  ways.  Baked  apples, 
and  fresh  or  preserved  berries  are  delicious  with  it.  Jelly-glasses, 
one-third  full  of  jelly  and  filled  up  with  cream,  make  a  very  whole- 
some and  delicious  dessert. 

Whipped  Cream. 

One  and  one-half  pints  good  rich  cream  sweetened  and  flavored 

to  taste,  three  tea-spoons  vanilla ;  whip  to  a  stiff*  froth.     Dissolve 

three-fourths  ounce  best  gelatine  in  a  small  tea-cup  hot  water,  and 

when  cool  pour  into  the  cream ;  stir  thoroughly,  pour  in  molds  and 

set  on  ice,  or  in  very  cool   place. — Mn.    Emma  Craig,    Wdsking- 

Urn,  D.  a 

Apple  Custard. 

One  pint  of  mashed  stewed  apples,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  four  eggs, 
one  cup  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg;  bake  slowly. — Mrs.  O,  W. 
Hensd,  QuarryviUe  Pa, 

Apple  8now. 

Pare,  core  and  bring  to  boil  in  as  little  water  as  possible  six  tart 
apple  oool,  strain,  boat  well,  and  add  the  well-whipped  whiter 
of  three  Qggf^,  sweeten  to  taste,  beat  well  until  a  dish  of  snow 
is  the  result,  flavor  with  lemon  or  manilla,  or  add  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon ;  serve  with  sweetened  cream.  Or,  make  custard  of 
folks,  sugar,  and  a  pint  milk,  place  in  a  dish,  and  drop  the  froth 
OD  it  in  large  flakes. — Mrs.  T.  J,  BuxUm,  Minneapolis,  3finn. 

Blanc-Mange. 
Dissolve  three  heaping  table-spoons  com  starch  and  three  of  sugar 
in  one  pint  of  milk ;  add  to  this  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  constantly  until 
it  boils  again ;  just  before  taking  from  the  stove  flavor  to  suit  the 
taste  and  pour  into  cups  or  small  molds ;  when  cool  take  out  and 
place  on  a  glass  dish  with  a  mold  of  jelly  in  the  center.  Serve  a 
spoon  of  jelly  and  a  sauce  of  sweetened  cream  with  each  mold.  Or, 
put  one  quart  milk  (reserving  three  table-spoons  with  which  mix 
three  heaping  table-spoons  corn-starch)  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  five 


108  CREAMS  AND  CUSTABDS. 

table-spoons  sugar.  When  milk  is  hot,  pour  in  the  mixed  corn- 
starch, and  stir  until  it  is  a  thick  batter ;  pour  this  on  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  add  two  tea-spoons  vanilla,  pour  into 
molds  wet  in  cold  water,  and  set  on  ice ;  when  cold,  turn  from  the 
mold,  and  serve  in  a  custard  made  as  follows :  Put  one  pint  milk  in 
a  basin  over  boiling  water,  mix  in  a  tea-cup  two  even  tea-spoons 
corn-starch  in  two  of  cold  milk,  beat  in  the  four  yolks  of  eggs  and 
two  and  a  half  table-spoons  of  sugar.  When  the  milk  is  hot  pour 
part  of  it  into  the  cup  and  stir  well,  pour  it  back  into  the  basin  and 
stir  until  as  thick  as  desired ;  put  on  ice  until  chilled  thoroughly. 
Blanc-mange  may  be  colored  green  with  spinage  juice,  or  pink  with 
the  juice  of  strawberry,  currant  or  cranberry,  or  a  handsome  yellow 
with  the  grated  peel  of  an  orange  or  lemon,  moistened  with  the 
juice  and  strained  through  a  cloth.  Very  pretty  half-pint  molds 
may  be  made  as  follows :  Tilt  the  mold  in  a  pan  of  snow  or  pounded 
ice,  color  one-fourth  the  blanc-mange  pink,  another  fourth  green ; 
wet  the  molds  and  pour  into  them  a  little  of  the  colored  blanc- 
mange, putting  only  one  color  into  each  mold  and  filling  it  so  that 
when  tilted  the  blanc-mange  reaches  nearly  to  the  top  and  covers 
about  two-thirds  of  the  bottom ;  when  cold  set  mold  level,  and  fill 
with  the  white  blanc-mange,  which  has,  meantime,  been  kept  in  so 
warm  a  place  as  not  to  harden.  K  .the  molds  are  made  to  imitate 
roses  or  fruit,  the  fruit  may  be  green,  and  roses  pink ;  if  com,  yel- 
low ;  and  various  ways  of  combining  colors  and  forms  will  suggest 
themselves  to  the  ingenious  housewife. 

Chocolate  Blai^c-Manoe. 

Half  box  gelatine,  soaked  till  dissolved  in  as  much  cold  water  as 
will  cover  it,  four  ounces  sweet  chocolate  grated,  one  quart  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  sugar ;  boil  milk,  sugar  and  chocolate  five  minutes, 
add  gelatine,  and  boil  five  minutes  more,  stirring  constantly ;  flavor 
with  vanilla,  put  in  molds  to  cool  and  eat  with  cream.  If  wanted 
for  tea,  make  in  the  morning ;  if  for  dinner,  the  night  before.  For 
a  plain  blanc-mange  omit  the  chocolate. — Mrs.  Dr.  HougtoUy  Urbann. 

Raspberry  Blano-Mange. 

Stew  nice  fiesh  raspberries,  strain  off  the  juice  and  sweeten  it  to 
taste,  place  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  com  starch  wet 


CREahIS  and  CUSTARDii.  109 

in  cold  water,  allowing  two  table-spoons  of  com  starch  for  each  pint 

of  juice ;  continue  stirring  until  sufficiently  cooked,  pour  into  molds 

wet  in  cold  water  and  set  away  to  cool ;  eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Other  fruit  can  be  used  instead  of  raspberries. — Mrs.  J.   P,  Rea, 

MinneapoliB,  Minn. 

Boiled  Custard. 

One  quart  milk,  two  table-spoons  corn  starch,  two  eggs,  one-fourth 
tea-spoon  salt,  butter  size  of  a  hickory-nut ;  wet  the  starch  in  a  litt!") 
of  the  milk,  heat  the  remainder  to  near  boiling,  in  a  tin  pail  set  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water.  The  proper  heat  will  be  indicated  by  a  froth 
or  film  rising  to  the  top ;  add  the  starch  till  it  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly, then  add  the  eggs  well-beaten  with  four  table-spoons  of 
sugar,  let  it  cook,  stirring  briskly,  take  off  and  beat  well;  flavor; 
served  with  grated  cocoa-nut  it  is  elegant. 

Chocolate  Custakd. 
Break  two  sections  chocolate  in  a  half-dozen  pieces,  put  it  in  a 
pan  over  boiling  water,  with  milk  enough  t<>  barely  cover  it ;  mash 
and  stir  perfectly  smooth,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  (one  quart 
in  all,  reserving  three  table-spoons  in  which  to  dissolve  the  corn 
starch,)  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  a  heaping  table-spoon  corn 
starch ;  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  sugar  and  corn  starch  (dissolved  in 
milk),  stir  all  slowly  in  the  boiling  milk,  in  which  the  chocolate  is 
dissolved,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  let  cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring 
constantly ;  eat  cold  with  white  cake. — Miss  Bumie  Johnson. 

Floating  Island. 
Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  quart  milk,  a  small 
pinch  of  salt,  sugar  to  taste ;  beat  and  strain  yolks  before  adding  to 
the  milk ;  place  custard  in  a  large  tin  pan,  and  set  in  stove,  stirring 
emwtanily  until  it  boils,  then  remove,  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose,  and 
pour  into  a  dish  (a  shallow,  wide  one  is  best),  spread  smoothly  over 
the  boiling  hot  custard  the  well-beaten  whites,  grating  some  loaf- 
sugar  (some  add  grated  cocoa-nut)  on  the  top.  Set  the  dish  in  a 
pan  of  ice- water  and  serve  cold.  Some  prepare  the  whites  by  placing 
a  table-epoon  at  a  time  on  boiling  water,  liiling  them  out  carefully, 
when  cooked,  with  a  skimmer  and  laying  them  gently  on  the  float 
This  is  the  "  old  reliable  recipe."— Jlfr».  W.  W.  W. 


110  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARL& 

Good  Baked  Custard. 
Eight  well-beaten  eggs,  leaving  two  whites  for  the  top,  three  pints 
milk ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste ;  bake  for  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 
Beat  the  reserved  whites  to  stiff  froth  with  two  table-spoons  sugar> 
spread  over  the  top  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

Gelatine  Custard. 
To  one-third  package  Coxc'-j  gelatine,  add  a  little  less  than  one 
pint  boiling  water ;  stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved,  add  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  and  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar;  strain  through  a  jelly- 
strainer  into  dish  for  th(»  table,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  For  custard, 
to  one  and  a  half  pints  milk  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  (reserving 
the  whites),  and  four  table-spoons  sugar;  cook  and  flavor  when  cool. 
When  required  for  the  table,  cut  gelatine  into  small  squares,  and 
over  them  pour  the  custard.  Add  four  table-spoons  powdered  sugar 
to  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  when  ready  for  the 
table  place  over  the  custard  with  a  spoon. — Afr«.  W.  A,  James, 

Lemon  Custard. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  till  they  are  white,  add  pint  boiling 
water,  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated,  and  the  juice  sweetened  to 
taste ;  stir  this  on  the  Are  till  it  thickens,  then  add  a  large  glass  of 
rich  wine,  and  one-half  glass  brandy ;  give  the  whole  a  good  boil, 
and  put  in  glasses.  To  be  eaten  cold.  Or,  put  the  thin  yellow 
rind  of  two  lemons,  with  the  juice  of  three,  and  sugar  to  taste,  into 
one  pint  of  warm  water.  As  lemons  vary  in  size  and  juiciness,  the 
exact  quantity  of  sugar  can  not  be  given.  Ordinary  lemons  re- 
quires three  gills.  It  will  be  safe  to  begin  with  that  quantity,  more 
may  be  added  if  required.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  then 
the  yolks;  then  beat  both  together,  pour  in  gradually  while  beat- 
ing the  other  ingredients;  put  all  in  a  pail,  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  stir  until  thick  as  boiled  custard ;  strain  it  in  a  deep 
dish ;  when  cool  place  on  ice.     Serve  in  glasses. — Mr%.  Belle  J2. 

Liggetty  DetraUy  MUh. 

Snow  Custard. 

Half  a  package  of  Coxe's  gelatine,  three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar, 

juice  of  one  lemon ;  soak  the  gelatine  one  hour  in  a  tea-cup  of  cold 

water,  add  one  pint  boiling  water,  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved. 


€BEA3£S  AND  CVSTARDS.  Ill 

add  two-thirds  of  the  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice ;  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine  ia  quite  cold,  whip 
it  into  the  whites,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  from  half  an  .hour  to  an 
hour.  Whip  steadily  and  evenly,  and  when  all  is  stiff,  pour  in  a 
mold,  or  in  a  dozen  egg-glasses  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  and 
set  in  a  cold  place.  In  four  or  five  hours  turn  into  a  glass  dish. 
Make  a  custard  of  one  and  one-half  pints  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
remainder  of  the  sugar,  ilavor  with  vanilla,  and  when  the  meringue 
or  snow-balls  are  turned  out  of  the  mold,  pour  this  around  the 
base. — Mn  Chv.  Thayer,  Wyoming  TerriJUyry. 

Moonshine. 
This  dessert  combines  a  pretty  appearance  with  palatable  flavor, 
and  is  a  convenient  substitute  for  ice-cream.  Beat  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  in  a  broad  plate  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  then  add  gradually  six 
table-spoons  powdered  sugar  (to  make  it  thicker  use  more  sugar  up 
to  a  pint),  beating  for  not  less  than  thirty  minutes,  and  then  beat 
in  about  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  preserved  peaches  cut  in  tiny 
bits  (or  some  use  one  cup  jelly),  and  set  on  ice  until  thoroughly 
chilled.  In  serving,  pour  in  each  saucer  some  rich  cream  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  on  the  cream  place  a  liberal  portion 
of  the  moonshine.  This  quantity  is  enough  for  seven  or  eight  per- 
son^.— Mn,  H.  C  Meredith, 

Orange  Float. 

One  quart  water,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  two  lemons,  one  cofiee- 

cap  sugar;  when  boiling,  add  four  table-spoons  com  starch,  let  boil 

fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time ;  when  cold  pour  it  over  four 

or  five  peeled  and  sliced  oranges,  and  over  the  top  spread  the  beaten 

whites  of  three  eggs ;  sweeten  and  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla. — 

Mn,  Wm,  Skinner. 

Hidden  Mountain. 

Six  eggs,  a  few  slices  citron,  sugar  to  taste,  three-quarters  of  a 

pint  of  cream,  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  jam ;  beat  the  whites  and 

yolks  of  the  eggs  separately,  then  mix  and  beat  again,  adding  the 

dtron,  the  cream  and  sugar;  when  well  beaten  put  in  a  buttered 

pan  and  fry,  cover  with  the  jam  and  garnish  with  slices  of  citron ; 

to  be  eaten  cold. — Mr9,  J,  C,  OotUd, 


112  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS, 

Orange  Souffle. 
Peel  and  sliee  six  oranges,  put  in  a  glass  dish  a  layer  of  oranges, 
then  one  of  sugar,  and  so  on  until  all  the  orange  is  used,  and  let  stand 
two  hours ;  make  a  soft  boiled  custard  of  yolks  of  three  eggs,  pint 
of  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  with  grating  of  orange  peel  for  flavor,  and 
pour  over  the  oranges  when  cool  enough  not  to  break  dish ;  beat 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  sugar,  and  put  over  the 
pudding.     Praised  by  all. — Mrs.  Mary  A.  lAvermjore^  Melrose,  Mas8, 

Prune  Whip. 

Sweeten  to  taste  and  stew  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  prunes; 
when  perfectly  cdd,  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff;  stir  all 
of  this  together  till  light,  put  in  a  dish,  and  bake  twenty  minutes ; 
when  cold,  serve  in  a  larger  dish,  and  cover  well  with  good  cream. 

Virginia  Caramel  Custard. 

To  make  a  baked  custard,  separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  beat  the  yolks  well  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  add 
the  well-beaten  whites  and  mix  well  with  a  quart  of  milk.  Flavor 
and  then  pour  into  a  buttered  mold.  Set  immediately  into  a  pan 
of  boiling  hot  water,  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  About  half  an 
hour  will  be  required  to  set  it  firmly.  When  nicely  browned  and 
pufied  up,  touch  the  middle  with  a  knife  blade ;  if  it  cuts  as  smooth 
as  around  the  sides  it  is  done ;  take  care  not  to  overdo.  Let  cus- 
tard  stand  imtil  perfectly  cold,  turn  out  gently  on  a  plate  and  dust 
thickly  with  sugar,  place  in  upper  part  of  a  hot  oven ;  the  sugar 
Boon  melts  and  browns.  Another  way  is  to  butter  the  mold  care^ 
fully,  sprinkle  sugar  over  bottom  and  set  on  stove  to  brown  (great 
care  is  necessary  to  prevent  sticking),  pour  in  custard  and  bake ; 
when  turned  out  the  caramel  will  be  on  top. 

A  thinner  custard  may  be  made  with  a  less  number  of  eggs,  but 
it  can  not  be  carameled  unless  baked  in  individual  cups.  Less 
eggs  may  also  be  used  by  substituting  a  portion  of  corn  starch, 
boiled  rice,  gelatine  or  something  else  to  give  firmness,  but  the 
quality  of  custard  will  be  impaired.  And  if  more  than  one  or  two 
additional  eggs  are  used  the  custard  is  spoiled.  Baking  too  rap- 
idly,  or  too  long,  injures  custard,  hence  do  not  scald  milk  and  eggs 
before  setting  in  oven,  as  many  recommend.  By  baking  in  boiling 
water  the  temperature  is  regular,  and  scorching  prevented. 


CONFECTIONERY. 


There  are  very  few  modem  kitchens  in  which  some  cooking  uten- 
sil may  not  be  found  convenient  for  making  candy.  A  sauce-pan 
of  tinned  iron,  with  a  handle  and  flaring  sides,  and  a  lip  to  facilitate 
the  pouring  of  the  contents,  will  be  found  best  adapted  to  such  use ; 
or  a  small  iron  or  brass  kettle  will  do  if  kept  quite  dean. 

Dissolve  four  pounds  white  sugar  in  one  quart  water  ;  place  this 
in  a  porcelain  kettle  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  pour  into  it 
a  small  quantity  of  gelatine  and  gum-arabic  dissolved  together ;  all 
the  impurities  which  rise  to  the  surface  skim  off  at  once.  Instead 
of  gelatine  and  gum-arabic,  the  white  of  an  egg  may  be  used  as  a 
substitute  with  good  results.  To  make  the  clarifying  process  still 
more  perfect,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  To  make  rock  candy, 
boil  this  syrup  a  few  moments,  allow  to  cool,  and  crystallization 
takes  place  on  the  sides  of  the  vessel.  To  make  other  candies, 
bring  the  syrup  very  carefully  to  such  a  degree  of  heat  that  the 
"threads,"  which  drop  from  the  spoon  when  raised  into  the  colder 
air,  will  snap  like  glass.  When  this  stage  is  reached,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  vinegar  or  cream  tartar  to  prevent  "graining,"  and  pour 
into  pans  as  directed  in  the  recipes  which  follow.  To  make  round 
stick  candies,  pull,  and  roll  into  shape  with  well-floured  hands  as 
soon  as  cool  enough  to  be  handled.  In  pulling  candy,  some  grease 
the  hands,  others  flour  them  slightly.  Colored  candies  are  often 
injurious,  and  sometimes  even  poisonous,  and  should  be  avoided. 

Id  baking  macaroons  and  kisses,  use  washed  butter  for  greasing 
the  tins,  as  lard  or  salt  butter  gives  an  unpleasant  taste.     Bake  in 

3  113) 


\ 


114  CONFECTIONERY. 

a  moderate  oven,  or  let  dry  in  a  cool  oven  for  two  hours.  After 
buttering,  sprinkling  lightly  with  flour  and  then  shaking  it  off,  is 
an  exoellent  way  to  prepare  the  pan.  When  powdered  almonds 
are  to  be  used,  they  should  be  thoroughly  dried  in  an  open  oven, 
after  blanching,  and  they  will  pulverize  more  easily.  In  niAking 
macaroons  or  drops,  or  pulling  butter-scotch  or  taffy,  grease  hands 
lightly  with  butter  to  prevent  sticking.  Flouring  the  hands  is  apt 
to  give  an  unpleasant  taste  to  candy. 


Almond  Macaroons. 
Pour  boiling  water  on  half  a  pound  almonds,  take  skins  off  and 
throw  into  cold  water  for  a  few  moments,  then  take  out  and  pound 
(adding  a  table-spoon  essence  lemon)  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  one 
pound  of  pulverized  sugar  and  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  work  the 
paste  well  together  with  back  of  spoon ;  dip  the  hands  in  water  and 
roll  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  and  lay  on  buttered 
paper  an  inch  apart ;  when  done,  dip  the  hands  in  water  and  pass 
gently  over  the  macaroons,  making  the  sur&ce  smooth  and  shining; 
set  in  a  cool  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  If  this  recipe  is 
strictly  followed,  the  macaroons  will  be  found  equal  to  any  made 
by  professional  confectioners. — Mrs.  L.  8.  W. 

BUTTER-SCOTOH. 

Three  pounds  ''cofiee  A"  sugar,  fourth  pound  butter,  half  tear 
spoon  cream  tartar,  eight  drops  extract  of  lemon ;  add  as  much 
cold  water  as  will  dissolve  the  sugar ;  boil  without  stirring  till  it 
will  easily  break  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  and  when  done,  add 
the  lemon;  have  a  dripping-pan  well  buttered  and  pour  in  one- 
fourth  inch  thick,  and  when  partly  cold,  mark  off  in  squares.  If 
pulled,  when  partly  cold,  till  very  white,  it  will  be  like  ice-cream 
candy. — Mrs.  J.  8.  R. 

Baltimore  Kisses. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  small  eggs  to  a  high,  firm  froth,  stir  into 
it  half  a  pound  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with  essence  lemon  or  rose, 
continue  to  beat  until  very  light ;  then  drop  half  the  size  of  an  egg» 
and  a  little  more  thdn  an  inch  apart,  on  well-buttered  letter-paper; 
lay  the  paper  on  a  half-inch  board  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven; 
watch,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  look  yellowish  take  them  out; 


\ 


CONFECTIONARY.  116 

or,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  stirring  into  them 
Tery  gradually  two  tea-cups  powdered  sugar  and  two  table-spoons 
com  starch;  bake  on  buttered  tins  fifteen  minutes  in  a  warm  oven, 
or  until  slightly  brown.  Chocolate  puffs  are  made  by  adding  two 
ounces  grated  chocolate  mixed  with  the  corn  starch. — Mrs.  W.  W.  W. 

Candy  of  any  Flavor. 
Three  and  a  half  pounds  refined  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pints 
water,  one  tea-spoon  cream  tartar ;  mix  in  a  vessel  large  enough  to 
hold  the  candy  when  expanded  by  the  heat ;  boil  over  a  brisk  fire, 
taking  care  that  it  does  not  bum.  The  heat  should  be  applied  at 
bottom  and  not  at  the  sides.  After  boiling  fifteen  minutes,  remove 
a  small  portion  of  the  melted  sugar  with  a  spoon,  and  cool  by 
placing  in  a  saucer  set  in  cold  water.  When  cool  enough,  take  a 
portion  between  thumb  and  finger,  and  if  it  forms  a  "string"  or 
"thread"  as  they  are  separated,  the  process  is  nearly  done,  and 
great  care  must  be  used  to  control  the  heat  scf  that  the  boiling  may 
be  kept  up  without  burning.  Teat  frequently  by  dropping  a  bit  into 
cold  water  placed  near;  if  it  becomes  hard  and  brittle,  snapping 
apart  when  bent,  it  is  done  and  must  be  removed  at  once,  and  the 
flavoring  stirred  in.  Then  pour  into  shallow  earthen  dishes,  thor- 
oughly but  lightly  greased,  and  cooled  until  it  can  be  handled ; 
pull,  roll  into  sticks  or  make  into  any  desired  shape. 

Centennial  Drops. 
White  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  quarter  pound  pulver- 
iaed  sugar,  half  tea-spoon  baking-powder ;  flavor  with  lemon ;  butter 
tins  and  drop  with  tea-spoon  about  three  inches  apart ;  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  and  serve  with  ice-cream.  This  is  also  a  very  nice  recipe 
for  icing. — Mins  Alice  Trimble,  Mt.  Gilead 

Chocolate  Caramels. 
One  cup  of  chocolate  shaved  fine,  one  cup  molasses,  half  cup 
milk,  one  cup  sugar;  when  nearly  done  add  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  a  wahiut  Stir  until  perfectly  dissolved,  but  not  after  it  begins 
to  boil,  as  that  will  make  it  grain.  It  is  done  when  it  hardens  and 
becomes  brittle  wlien  dropped  in  cold  water,  but  do  not  make  too 
bard.  Grease  plates  with  butter,  pour  it  on  about  half  an  inch 
tbick,  when  nearly  cool  cut  with  a  greased  knife  into  small  squares. 


116  CONFECTIONERY, 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

One  and  a  half  cups  grated  chocolate,  four  of  brown  sugar,  one 
and  a  half  of  cold  water,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  e^^,  table-spoon 
of  very  sharp  vinegar ;  flavor  with  two  table-spoons  vanilla  just 
before  removing  from  fire.  Do  not  stir,  but  shake  the  vessel  gently 
while  cooking.  Boil  on  the  top  of  stove  over  a  brisk  fire  until  it 
becomes  brittle  when  tried  in  water ;  pour  into  a  well  buttered  and 
floured  dripping-pan,  and  check  off"  in  squares  while  soft. — ^^s» 
Emma  Collins, 

Chocolate  Drops. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  pulverized  or  granulated  sugar  (or  maple 
sugar  may  be  used),  one-half  cup  cold  water;  boil  four  minutes, 
place  the  sauce-pan  in  cold  water,  and  beat  till  cold  enough  to  make 
into  little  balls;  take  half  a  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  shave  ofi* 
fine  and  set  it  in  a  bowl  set  in  top  of  boiling  tea-kettle  to  melt,  and 
when  balls  are  cool  enough,  roll  in  the  chocolate  with  a  fork.  This 
makes  eighty.  Or  while  making  into  balls,  mold  an  almond-meat 
into  the  center  of  each  ball,  roll  in  coarse  sugar,  and  you  have  deli- 
cious **  cream  almonds."  Or,  mold  the  unbroken  halves  of  walnut- 
meats  into  the  soft  sugar,  and  when  cold,  roll  in  the  chocolate. 
When  finished,  take  out  and  lay  on  buttered  paper  until  cold. — 

Mm,  0.  M,  ScoU.  • 

Cocoa-nut  Caramels. 

One  pint  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  cocoa-nut  grated  fine 
(or  dessicated  cocoa-nut  may  be  used),  three  pounds  white  sugar, 
two  tea-spoons  lemon,  boil  slowly  until  stiff*  (some  then  beat  to  a 
cream),  pour  into  shallow  pans,  and  when  partly  cold  cut  in  squares. 
Miss  Nettie  Brewster  y  Madison. 

Cocoa-nut  Drops. 

One  pound  cocoa-nut,  half  pound  powdered  sugar,  and  the  white 
of  an  egg;  work  all  together  and  roll  into  little  balls  in  the  hand; 
bake  on  buttered  tins. — C  W.  Cyphers, 

Everton  Ice-cream  Candy. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon  into  a  cup.     Boil  one  and 

one-half  pounds  moist  white  sugar,  two  ounces  butter,  one  yid  a 

half  tea-cups  water,  together  with  half  the  rind  of  the  lemoi][,  and 

when  done  (which  may  be  known  by  its  becoming  quite  crisp  when 


CONFECTIONERY.  117 

dropped  into  cold  water)  set  aside  till  the  boiling  has  ceased,  and 
then  stir  in  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  butter  a  dish  and  pour  in  about 
an  inch  thick.  When  cool  take  out  peel  (which  may  be  dried), 
pull  until  white,  draw  out  into  sticks  and  check  about  four  inches 
long  with  a  knife.  If  you  have  no  lemons,  take  two  table-spoons 
vinegar  and  two  tea-spoons  lemon  extract.  The  fire  must  be  quick 
and  the  candy  stirred  all  the  time. — J/rs.  J.  S.  R, 

Hickory- NUT  Macaroons. 
Take  meats  of  hickory-nuts,  pound  fine  and  add  mixed  ground 
fipice  and  nutmeg ;  make  frosting  as  for  cakes,  stir  meats  and  spices 
in,  puttiug  in  enough  to  make  it  convenient  to  handle ;  flour  the 
hands  and  make  the  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  nutmegs,  lay  them 
on  buttered  tins,  giving  room  to  spread,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
These  are  delicious. — Mtb.   WaUer  ^litehdl, 

Hickory-nut  Cakes. 
•  One  egg,  half  cup  flour,  a  cup  sugar,  a  cup  nuts  sliced  fine ;  drop 
on  buttered  tins  one  tea-spoonful  in  a  place,  two  inches  apart.     Or, 
loU  and  bake  like  sand  tarts. — Mrs.  Lamb,  BeUefentaine, 

Horehound  Candy. 
Boil  two  ounces  of  dried  horehound  in  a  pint  and  a  half  water  for 
about  half  an  hour ;  strain  and  add  three  and  a  half  pounds  bix^wn 
sugar.  Boil  over  a  hot  fire  until  it  is  sufficiently  hard,  pour  out  in 
flat,  well-greased  tin  trays,  and  mark  into  sticks  or  small  squares 
with  a  knife,  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  to  retain  its  shape. 

Lemon  Candy. 
Take  a  pound  loafsugar  and  a  large  cup  water,  and  after  cooking 
over  a  slow  fire  half  an  hour,  clear  with  a  little  hot  vinegar,  take 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  testing  by  raising  with  a  spoon,  and  when 
the  ''  threads"  will  snap  like  glass  pour  into  a  tin  pan,  and  when 
nearly  cold  mark  in  narrow  strips  with  a  knife.  Before  pouring  into 
the  pans,  chopped  cocoa-nut,  almonds,  hickory-nuts,  or  Brazil-nuts 
cut  in  slices,  may  be  stirred  into  it. — Mrs,  F.  K,  W. 

Meringues. 
Qge  pound  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  nine  eggs.     Whip  eggs 
until  dish  can  be  inverted  without  their  fsilling  ofi*,  and  then  simply 
add  the  sugar,  incorporating  it  thoroughly,  but  stirring  as  little  as 


118  CONFECTIONER  Y. 

possible.  Prepare  boards  three-fourths  of  an  inch  tliick,  to  fit  oven, 
and  cover  them  with  strips  of  heavy  brown  paper  about  two  and 
a  half  inches  wide;  on  these  drop  the  mixture  from  the  end  of  a 
dessert-spoon  (or  use  the  meringue-bag  described  in  recipe  for  lady's 
fingers),  giving  the  meringue  the  form  of  an  eggy  and  dropping  them 
about  two  inches  apaH  on  the  p:iper,  and  bake  till  a  light  brown. 
Take  up  each  strip  of  paper  by  the  two  ends,  turn  it  gently  on  the 
table,  and  with  a  small  spoon  take  out  the  soil  part  of  each  me- 
•ringue,  strew  over  them  some  sifted  sugar,  and  return  to  oven  bot- 
tom side  up  to  brown.  These  shells  may  be  kept  for  weeks.  When 
wanted  for  table,  fill  with  whipped  cream,  place  two  of  them  together 
80  as  to  inclose  the  cream,  and  serve.  To  vary  their  appearance, 
finely-chopped  almonds  or  currants  may  be  strewn  over  them  before 
the  sugar  is  sprinkled  over,  and  they  may  be  garnished  with  any 
bright-colored  preserve.  Great  expedition  is  necessary  in  making 
them,  as,  if  the  meringues  are  not  put  into  the  oven  as  soon  as  the 
sugar  and  eggs  are  mixed,  the  former  melts,  and  the  mixture  runs 
on  the  paper  instead  of  keeping  egg-shape.  The  sweeter  the  me- 
ringues are  made  the  crisper  will  they  be ;  but  if  there  is  not  sufiS- 
cient  sugar  added  they  will  be  tough.— 3/wd  Sarah  OiUy  Columbus^ 

Molasses  Candy. 

Take  equal  quantities  brown  sugar  and  Orleans  molasses  (or  all 
molasses  may  be  used),  and  one  table-spoon  sharp  vinegar,  and  when 
it  begins  to  boil  skim  well  and  strain,  return  to  the  kettle  and  con- 
tinue boiling  until  it  becomes  brittle  if  dipped  in  cold  water,  then 
pour  on  a  greased  platter.  When  cool  enough,  begin  to  throw  up 
the  edges  and  work,  by  pulling  until  bright  and  glistening  like 
gold ;  flour  the  hands  occasionally,  draw  into  stick  size,  rolling  to 
keep  round,  until  pulled  out  and  cold.  With  a  greased  knife  press 
nearly  through  them  at  proper  lengths,  and  they  will  easily  snap  ; 
flavor  just  before  pouring  out  to  cool. — Sterling  Bolnnson. 

Aunt  Top's  Nut-Taffy. 

Two  pints  maple  sugar,  half  pint  water,  or  just  enough  to  difr* 
solve  sugar;  boil  until  it  becomes  brittle  by  dropping  in  cold  water; 
just  before  pouring  out  add  a  tablespoon  vinegar  ;  having  prepared 
the  hickory-nut  meats,  in  halves,  butter  w  ell  the  pans,  line  with  the 
meats,  and  pour  the  taffy  over  them. — EsteUe  and  Hattie  JSusk, 


CANNING  FRUITS. 


deanse  the  cans  thoroughly  and  test  to  see  if  any  ]eak  or  are 
cracked.  If  tin  cans  leak,  send  them  to  the  tinner ;  if  disoolored 
inside  they  may  be  lined  with  writing-paper  just  before  using.  In 
buying  stoneware  for  canning  purposes,  be  sure  that  it  is  weU  glazed, 
as  fruits  canned  in  jars  or  jugs  imperfectly  glazed  sometimes  become 
poisonous.  Never  use  defective  glass  cans,  but  keep  them  for  storing 
things  m  the  pantry ;  and  in  buying  them,  take  care  that  they  are 
free  from  flaws  and  blisters,  else  the  glass  will  crumble  off  in  small 
particles  when  subjected  to  heat.  Self-sealers  are  very  convenient, 
bat  the  heat  hardens  the  rubber  rings,  which  are  difficult  to  re- 
place, so  that  in  a  year  or  two  they  are  unfit  for  vuse.  For  this 
reason  many  prefer  those  with  a  groove  around  the  top  for  sealing 
with  wax  or  putty.  The  latter  is  very  convenient,  as  jars  sealed 
with  it  can  be  opened  readily  with  a  strong  fork  or  knife,  and  are 
much  more  easily  cleaned  than  when  wax-sealed.  Putty  may  be 
bought  ready  for  use,  and  is  soon  made  soil  by  molding  in  the 
hand.  In  using  it  should  be  worked  out  into  a  small  roll,  and 
pressed  firmly  into  the  groove  with  a  knife,  care  being  taken  to 
keep  it  well  pressed  down  as  the  can  cools.  In  canning,  provide 
a  wide-mouthed  ftinnel  (made  to  set  into  the  can),  and  pour  the 
fruit  into  a  funnel  from  a  bright  tin  dipper  (if  old  or  rusty  it  will 
discolor  the  fruit)  or  a  small  pitcher,  heated  before^putting  in  the 
hot  firuit  to  prevent  breaking.  Pour  fi^it  as  quickly  as  possible, 
and  screw  down  top  immediately. 

Fruit  should  be  selected  carefully,  and  all  that  is  imperfect  re- 
jected.    Large  fruits,  such  as  peaches,  pears,  etc.,  are  in  the  best 


120  CANNING  FRUITS. 

condition  to  can  when  not  quite  fully  ripe,  and  should  be  put  up 
as  soon  as  possible  after  picking ;  s<mall  fruits,  such  as  berries, 
should  never  stand  over  night  if  it  is  possible  to  avoid  it.  The 
highest-flavored  and  longest-keeping  fruits  are  best  put  up  without 
paring,  after  having  carefully  removed  the  down  with  a  fine  but 
stiff  brush.  Use  only  the  best  sugtir  in  the  proportion  of  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  good  fruit,  varying  tlie  rule,  of  course, 
with  the  sweetness  of  the  fruit.  Or,  in  canning  for  pies  omit  sugar, 
as  the  natural  flavor  is  better  preserved  without  it,  and  some  prefer 
this  method  for  all  purposes.  It  is  economical,  and  well  worthy  of 
experiment.  Cans  put  up  in  this  way  should  have  a  special  mark  so 
as  to  distinguish  them  from  the  rest.  When  ready  to  can,  first  place 
the  jars  (glass)  in  a  large  pan  of  warm  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
make  ready  the  syrup  in  a  nice  clean  porcelain  kettle,  add  the  fruit 
— it  is  better  to  prepare  only  enough  fruit  or  syrup  for  two  or  three 
cans  at  a  time — and  by  the  time  it  is  done,  the  water  in  the  pan 
will  be  hot  and  the  cans  ready  for  use.  Take  them  out  of  the 
water  and  set  them  on  a  hot  plattex^which  answers  the  double  pur- 
pose of  preventing  their  contact  with  any  cold  sur&ce  like  the  table, 
and  saving  any  fruit  that  may  be  spoiled.  Fill  as  full  as  possible, 
and  set  aside  where  no  current  of  air  will  strike  them ;  or,  better, 
wring  out  a  towel  wet  in  hot  water  and  set  them  on  it ;  let  stand  a 
moment  or  two  or  until  wiped  ofl*,  when  the  fruit  will  have  shrunk 
away  a  little;  fill  up  again  with  hot  syrup,  or  if  you  have  none, 
boiling  water  from  the  tea-kettle  will  do,  and  then  seal.  In  can- 
ning peaches,  the  flavor  is  improved  by  adding  two  or  three  whole 
peaches,  or  dropping  in  the  ceTiter  of  the  can  a  few  of  the  stones. 
For  peaches,  pears  and  berries,  some  sweeten  as  for  eating,  let 
stand  until  sugar  is  dissolved  (using  no  water),  place  on  stove  in 
porcelain  kettle  and  keep  at  Inciting  point  long  enough  to  heat  the 
fruit,  and  then  can  in  glass  jai-s  as  directed. 

There  are  several  other  ways  of  preparing  glass  cans  for  fruit, 
among  them  the  following :  Wring  a  towel  from  cold  water,  double 
and  wrap  closely  about  and  under  the  can  so  as  to  exclude  the  air, 
and  put  a  cold  silver  spoon  inside  and  fill ;  or,  put  a  towel  in  a 
steamer,  set  in  the  cans,  and  place  over  a  kettle  of  cM  water,  boil 
the  water,  and  when  ready  to  fill,  remove  the  cans  and  wrap  in  a 


CANNING  FRUITS.  121 

towel  wrong  from  warm  water,  put  a  table-spoon  rinsed  in  hot 
water  inside,  and  fill ;  or,  wash  the  cans  in  tepid  water,  place  an 
iron  rod  ins^ide,  and  at  once  pour  in  the  boiling  fruit,  but  not  too 
fiist  In  using  gla«s  cans  with  tops  which  screw  on,  be  sure  that 
the  rubbers  are  firm  and  close-fitting,  and  throw  away  all  that  are 
imperfect.  When  the  can  is  filled  to  overflowing,  put  on  the  top 
at  once  and  screw  down  tightly,  and  &s  the  fruit  and  cans  cool, 
causing  contraction  of  the  glass,  turn  down  again  and  again  until 
perfectly  air-tight.  Wrap  as  soon  as  cold  with  brown  wrapping- 
paper,  unless  the  fruit-cloi^et  is  very  dark.  Light  injures  all 
fruit,  but  especially  tomatoes,  in  which  it  causes  the  formation  of 
citric  acid,  which  no  amount  of  sugar  will  sweeten.  The  place 
where  canned  fruits  are  kept  should  also  be  dry  and  cod,  for  if 
too  warm  the  fruit  will  spoil.  In  canning,  use  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle,  silver  fork  or  broom  splint  and  wire  spoon  or  dipper; 
a  steel  fork  discolors  the  fruit. 

Cans  should  be  examined  two  or  three  days  after  filling,  and  if 
syrup  leaks  out  from  the  rim,  they  should  Ije  unsealed,  the  fruit 
thoroughly  cooked  and  kept  for  jam  or  jelly,  as  it  will  have  lost 
the  delicacy  of  color  and  flavor  so  desirable  in  canned  fruits.  Pint 
cans  are  better  for  berries  than  quart.  Strawberries  keep  their 
color  best  in  stone  jars;  if  glass  cans  are  used  for  them,  they  should 
be  buried  in  sand.  If  syrup  is  left  after  canning  berries,  it  may, 
ffhile  thin,  be  flavored  with  vinegar,  boiled  a  moment,  and  then 
bottled  and  corked  for  a  drink  mixe<l  with  ice- water. 

In  using  self-sealing  cans  the  rubber  ring  must  show  an  even 
edge  all  round,  for  if  it  slips  back  out  of  sight  at  any  point,  air 
will  be  admitted.  On  opening  tin  cans,  remember  to  ix)ur  aU  the 
fruit  out  into  an  earthen  or  glass  dish.  If  any  part  is  not  used  at* 
the  time,  re-cook,  and  return  to  dish,  and  it  will  keep  for  a  day  or 
two,  many  of  the  loss  perishable  fruits  longer.  Wines,  cider,  shrubs, 
etc.,  must  be  bottled,  well  corked,  sealed,  and  the  bottles  placed  on 
their  sides  in  a  box  of  sand  or  sawdust.  To  can  maple  syrup,  pour 
hot  into  cans  or  jugs,  and  seal  well. 

The  fine  du^play  of  canned  fruits  at  the  Centennial  Exhibition 
was  prepared  as  follows :  The  fruits  were  selected  with  great  care, 
of  uniform  size  and  shape,  and  all  perfect.     They  were  carefully 


122 


CANNINO  FRUITS, 


peeled  with  a  thin,  sharp,  silver  fruit-knife,  which  did  not  dbcdor 
them,  and  immediately  plunged  into  cold  water  in  an  earthen  or 
wooden  vessel  to  prevent  the  air  from  darkening  them.  As  soon 
as  enough  for  one  can  was  prepared,  it  was  put  up  bj  laying  the 
fruit  piece  by  piece  in  the  can,  and  pouring  syrup,  clear  as  crystal, 
over  it,  and  tjien,  after  subjecting  the  whole  to  the  usual  heat, 
sealing  up. 

The  following  table  gives  the  time  required  for  cooking  and  the 
quantity  of  sugar  to  the  quart  for  the  various  kinds  of  fruit 


Time  for    Quant, 
boiling       ftugar 
fruit.  to  qt. 

Cherries 5min.    6oz. 

BaspberrieB 6  "       4  " 

Blackberries... 6  " 

Strawberries 8  '' 

Plums 10  " 

Whortleberries 5  " 

Pie  Plant,  sliced 10  " 

Bmall  sour  pears,  whole  30  ^* 
Bartlett  pears,  halved...  20 

Peaches 8 


11 
if 


6  " 
8" 
10" 
8  " 
8" 
4" 
6" 
4  " 


Peaches,  whole 15inin. 

Pine  apples,  sliced 15 

Siberian  crab-apples....  25 
Sour  apples,  quartered...  10 

Ripe  currants 6 

Wild  grapes 10 

Tomatoes 20 

Gooseberries 8 

Quinces,  sliced 15 


Timp  for     Qniini. 
boiling        sugar 
fruit  to  qt. 

4oz. 
6" 
8" 
5" 

.8" 
8" 

none* 
8" 

10" 


tt 
It 

it 
ti 
II 
<{ 
u 


Canned  Berries. 

Select  those  the  skins  of  which  have  not  been  broken,  or  the 

juice  will  darken  the  S3rrup;  fill  cans  compactly,  set  in  a  kettle  of 

oold  water,  with  a  cloth  beneath  them,  over  an  even  heat;  when 

sufficiently  heated,  pour  over  the  berries  a  syrup  of  white  sugar 

dissolved  in  boiling  water  (the  richer  the  better  for  keeping,  though 

not  for  preserving  the  flavor  of  the  fruit),  cover  the  cans  closely  to 

retain  heat  on  the  top  berries.     To  insure  full  cans  when  cold,  have 

extra  berries  heated  in  like  manner  to  supply  the  shrinkage.      If 

the  fruit   swims,  pour  off  surplus  syrup,  fill  with   hot  fruit,  and 

itcal  up  as  soon  as  the  fruit  at  the  top  is  thoroughly  scalded. — Iffisft 

L.  Southwick. 

Plain  Canned  Berrebs.  ^ 

Pick  out  stems  or  hulls  if  any — ^if  gathered  carefully  the  berriea 

will  not  need  washing,  put  in  porcelain  kettle  on  the  stove,  adding 

a  small  tea-cup  water  to  prevent  burning  at  first.      When  they 

come  to  a  boil,  skim  well,  add  sugar  to  taste  (for  pies  it  may  be 

omitted),  let  boil  five  minutes,  fill  in  glass,  stone,  or  tin  cans,  and 

seal  with  putty  unless  self-sealers  are  used.      This  rule  applies  to 


CANIONQ  FRUITS,  123 

raspberries,  blackberries,   currants,   gooseberries,  or  any  of  the 

small  berries. 

Canned  Cukrants. 

Look  over  carefully,  stem  and  weigh,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  every  one  of  fruit;  put  in  a  kettle,  cover,  and  leave  to  heat  slowly 
and  stew  gently  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes ;  then  add  the  sugar, 
and  shake  kettle  occasionally  to  make  it  mix  with  iruit ;  do  not 
allow  to  boil,  but  keep  as  hot  as  possible  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
then  pour  in  cans  and  secure  covers  at  once.  White  currants  are 
beautiful  preserved  in  this  way. — Maryland  mdhod. 

GSEEN  GOOSEBEKEOES. 

Cook  the  berries  in  water  until  white,  but  not  enough  to  break 
them ;  put  into  cans  with  as  little  water  as  possible,  fill  up  the  can 
^ith  boiling  water  and  seal ;  when  opened  pour  off  water  and  cook 
like  fresh  berrias. — Mrs,  0.  M.  8, 

Canned  Grapes. 

Squeeze  pulp  from  grapes,  boil  skins  and  pulp  in  water  until  each 
seem  tender ;  then  pass  pulp  through  a  sieve,  add  skins  and  the  water  in 
^hich  they  are  cooked  (only  a  little  water  should  be  used  in  cook- 
ing them) ;  add  a  large  coffee-cup  of  white  sugar  to  a  quart  of 
grapes,  boil  until  quite  thick,  and  can  in  glass  according  to  general 
directions. — Mrs.  A.  C,  B.,  Jacksonville, 

Canned  Quinces  and  Apples. 

Quarter  them,  and  if  large,  eighth  them;  cook  separately  in 
water  to  cover  till  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  (silver)  fork ;  to  a 
quart  of  the  mixed  juice  take  one  pint  sugar,  and  when  boiling  add 
quinces  and  apples,  half  and  half ,  or  whatever  proportion  you  vish; 
cook  until  of  a  clear  red  look,  then  place  in  jars;  fill  with  juice,  run 
a  silver  spoon  down  the  sides  of  the  can  to  let  all  air  escape ;  add 
more  juice  to  overflowing,  and  seal  at  once. 

Canned  Peaches  Steamed. 

To  peel,  place  in  a  wire  basket,  to  the  handle  of  which  a  cord 
has  been  tied,  let  down  into  boiling  water  for  a  moment,  then  into 


124  CANNING  FR  UITS, 

cold  water,  and  strip  off  the  skin  (this  saves  both  fruit  and  labor). 
The  fruit  must  be  at  a  certain  stage  to  be  prepared  in  this  way,  for 
if  too  green  it  will  not  peel,  and  if  too  ripe  it  will  be  too  much 
softened  by  the  hot  water.  Afler  peeling,  seed  and  place  in  a 
steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  first  laying  a  cloth  in  bottom 
of  steamer ;  fill  about  half  full  of  fruit,  cover  tightly,  make  a  syrup 
in  a  porcelain  kettle  for  fruit  alone,  let  the  fruit  steam  until  it  can 
be  easily  pierced  with  a  silver  fork,  drop  gently  for  a  moment  into 
the  hot  syrup,  place  in  the  cans,  fill,  cover,  and  seal.  The  above 
recipe  is  for  canning  a  few  at  a  time.  This  recipe,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  mode  of  peeling,  applies  equally  well  to  pears. 

Canned  Peaches. 
Pare,  halve  and  seed ;  make  a  syrup  of  a  pint  granulated  sugar 

to  a  quart  water,  place  on  stove  in  a  porcelain  kettle  (enough  for 

two  quart  cans).     When  syrup  boils,  drop  in  enough  fruit  for  one 

can ;  watch  closely,  testing  with  a  silver  fork,  so  that  the  moment 

they  are  done  they  may  be  removed.     When  the  peaches  are  tender, 

lift  very  gently  with  a  wire  spoon,  and  place  in  the  can  previously 

heated,  according  to  instructions  for  preparing  glass  cans.     When 

full  of  peaches  pour  in  the  hot  syrup,  place  the  cover  on  and  seal 

at  once ;  then  add  more  peaches  to  the  hot  syrup  tor  next  can,  and 

repeat  the  o|)eration.     If  there  are  more  peaches  than  will  fill  the 

can,  place  them  in  another  can  and  keep  hot  until  more  are  ready, 

and  so  on  until  all  are  canned.     Skim  the  syrup  before  adding 

peaches,  making  only  enough  syrup  at  one  time  for  two  cans. — • 

Mrs.  W.  W.  W. 

Canned  Pears. 

Prepare  and  can  precisely  like  peaches  in  preceding  recipe,  except 
that  they  require  longer  cooking.  When  done  they  are  easily  pierced 
with  a  silver  fork. 

Canned  Pie  Plant. 

Cut  the  pie  plant  in  pieces,  two  inches  long,  put  over  a  slow  fire 
with  its  weight  in  sugar ;  when  sugar  is  dissolved  let  it  boil  slowly 
until  clear,  but  do  not  let  it  cook  long  enough  to  become  dark  col- 
ored.    Put  up  in  air-tight  cans. 

Canned  Pine- Apple. 
Peel  and  slice,  make  syrup  in  proportion  of  two  and  a  half  pounds 


CANNING  FRUITS.  126 

beet  white  granulated  sugar  to  nearly  three  pints  of  water ;  boil  five 
minates ;  skim  or  strain ;  add  fruit  and  let  it  boil ;  have  cans  hot ; 
fill  and  seal  up  as  soon  as  possible. 

Canned  Plums. 
Wash  and  put  whole  into  a  syrup  made  in  the  proportion  of  a 
pnt  of  water  and  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  two  pounds  of  fruit ; 
boil  for  eight  minutes,  can,  and  seal  immediately.  If  pricked  with 
a  fork  before  placing  in  syrup,  they  will  be  less  liable  to  burst. 
Cherries  are  canned  in  the  same  way. 

Raspberries  with  Currant  Juice. 
Ten  pounds  of  red  or  black  raspberries,  twelve  pounds  of  granu* 
lated  sugar,  one  quart  currant  juice.     Make  syrup  of  the  sugar  and 
juice;  when  boiling  add  the  fruit,  and  continue  for  ten  minutes. 
Put  in  glass  cans  and  &sten  immediately. 

Canned  Strawberries. 
Fill  glass  jars  with  fresh  whole  strawberries,  sprinkled  with  sugar 
in  the  proportion  of  half  pound  sugar  to  a  pound  of  berries,  lay 
covers  on  lightly,  stand  them  in  a  wash  boiler  filled  with  water  to 
^thin  an  inch  of  tops  of  cans  (the  water  must  not  be  more  than 
milk-warm  when  the  cans  are  placed  in  it).  When  it  has  boiled 
fer  fifteen  minutes,  dpiw  to  back  of  stove,  let  steam  pass  ofi*,  roll 
the  hand  in  a  towel,  lift  out  cans,  and  place  on  a  table.  If  the 
berries  are  well  covered  with  their  own  juice,  take  a  table-spoon  and 
fill  up  the  first  can  to  the  very  top  of  the  rim  from  the  second,  wipe 
the^neck,  rub  dry,  and  screw  the  top  down  firmly,  observing  care- 
fully the  general  directions  for  canning  berries.  Fill  another  from 
the  second  can,  and  so  on  until  all  are  finished.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  to  keep  the  berries  whole  and  round ;  as  the  cans  cool  invert 
them  occasionally,  to  prevent  the  fruit  from  forming  in  a  mass  at 

one  end. 

Canned  Strawberries. 

For  every  quart  of  fresh  strawberries,  take  one  coffee-cup  of  white 

sugar;  add  a  table-spoon  or  two  of  water  to  the  fruit  if  there  is  no  * 

juice  in  the  bottom,  to  prevent  burning  before  the  heat  brings  out 

the  juice.     As  soon  aa  the  fruit  boils,  add  the  sugar,    and   stir 

gently  for  a  few  minutes  until  it  boils  up  again,  and  can  immedi- 


126  CANNING  FRUITS, 

ately.  It  is  better  not  to  cook  any  more  fruit  than  can  he  put 
into  one  glass  fruit-jar.  Usually  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  syrup  will 
be  left  with  which  to  begin  the  next  can.  Strawberries  are  consid- 
ered difficult  to  keep,  but  there  need  be  no  trouUe  if  the  fruit  is 
fresh  and  the  can  is  closed  air-tight  in  glass,  and  kept  as  directed 
in  geueral  directions  for  canning  fruits. — Mrs,  H.  8.  Huntington, 

Galeeburg,  111, 

Canned  Corn. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  tartaric  acid  in  half  tea-cup  water,  and  take 
one  tablespoon  to  two  quarts  of  sweet  corn ;  cook,  and  while  boil- 
ing hot,  fill  the  cans,  which  should  be  tin.  When  used  turn  into  a 
colander,  rinse  with  cold  water,  add  a  little  soda  and  sugar  while 
cooking,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt — Miss  lAda  Cart- 

mell. 

Canned  Corn  and  Tomatoes. 

Scald,  peel,  and  slice  tomatoes  (not  too  ripe^  in  the  proportion 

of  one-third  corn  to  two-thirds  tomatoes ;  put  on  in  a  porcelain 

kettle,  let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  can  immediately  in  tin  or  glass 

(if  glass  keep  in  the  dark).     Some  take  equal  parts  of  com  and 

tomatoes,  preparing  them  as  above.     Others,  after  cutting  the  com 

from  the  cob,  cook  it  twenty  minutes,  adding  a  little  water  and 

stirring  often,  then  prepare  the  tomatoes  as  above,  cooking  in  a 

separate  kettle  five  minutes,  and  then  adding  them  to  the  com  in 

the  proportion  of  one-third  corn  to  two-thirds  tomatoes,  mixing  well 

until  they  boil  up  once,  and  then  canning  immediately. — Mrs,  D. 

Buxton, 

String-Beans. 

String  fresh  string-beans,  break  in  several  pieces,  cook  in  boiling 

water  ten  minutes,  and  can  like  tomatoes. — Mrs,  L,  W.  C,  Oin- 

c'umati. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

The  tomatoes  must  be  entirely  fresh  and  not  overripe ;  pour  over 
them  boiling  water,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  drain  ofi^,  remove  the 
skins,  and  slice  crosswise  into  a  stone  jar,  cutting  out  all  the  hard 
or  defective  portions ;  cook  for  a  few  minutes  in  their  own  juice, 
skimming  off  the  scum  which  rises,  and  ^stirring  with  a  wooden 
spoon  or  paddle ;  have  the  cans  on  the  hearth  fille<i  with  hot  water; 


CANNINO  FRUITS.  127 

empty,  and  fill  with  hot  tomatoes;  ^vipe  moisture  from  tope  with 
soft  cloth,  put  on  and  secure  covers.  If  tin  cans  are  used,  press 
down  covers,  and  pour  hot  sealing  wax  into  grooves.  If  put  up 
in  glass,  set  away  in  a  dark  place.  Either  tin,  glass  or  stone  cans 
may  be  used,  and  all  may  he  sealed  with  putty  instead  of  wax,  it 
being  more  convenient.     (See  general  instructions  for  canning  fruit) 

Canned  Watermelon. 

Cut  rind  of  ripe  melons  (first  cutting  off  all  green  parts)  into 
flmaU  pieces  two  or  three  inches  long,  and  boil  until  tender  enough 
to  pierce  with  fork ;  have  a  syrup  made  of  white  sugar,  allowing 
half  pound  sugar  to  a  pound  fruit ;  skim  out  melon  and  place  in 
syrup  together  with  a  few  pieces  of  race  ginger,  let  cook  a  few 
minutes,  put  in  cans  and  seal  hot. 

Warranted  Canned  Strawberries. 

Pat  fi>ur  pounds  white  sugar  in  a  kettle,  add  a  teacup  cold 
water,  let  boil  till  perfectly  clear,  then  add  four  quarts  nice  ber- 
ries. Boil  ten  minutes,  keeping  them  covered  with  syrup,  but 
avoid  stirring  in  order  to  preserve  their  good  appearance.  Take 
out  berries  with  a  small  strainer  or  skimmer,  place  in  a  crock  and 
let  the  syrup  boil  ten  minutes  longer,  then  pour  it  over  berries, 
aad,  when  cool,  fill  the  cans,  putting  a  tablespoon  of  good  brandy 
on  top  of  each  can,  screw  on  lid  tightly,  and  put  in  a  dry  dark 
place.  This  method  is  the  only  means  of  preserving  the  peculiar 
flavor  of  the  strawberries.  To  prevent  the  second  handling,  put 
the  hot  berries  in  the  cans  (instead  of  the  crock)  till  about  three 
quarters  frill.  When  syrup  has  boiled,  fill  each  can  with  it,  let  stand 
till  cool,  then  cover  with  the  tablespoon  of  brandy  (take  out  a  little 
juice  if  necessary)  and  screw  on  the  lid. 

If  after  two  or  three  weeks  the  least  fermentation  appears,  put 
the  cans  in  a  boiler  (on  a  small  board  to  prevent  contact  with 
bottom),  fill  with  cold  water  nearly  to  top  of  cans,  loosen  the  lids, 
but  do  not  take  them  off,  let  water  boil  for  a  little  while,  then  take 
oot  cans,  HglUen  the  covers  and  the  berries  will  keep  over  a  year. 
Folly  ripe  currants  and  acid  cherries  canned  in  same  manner,  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  dressed  fruit,  are  delicious.  They  never 
need  a  second  boiling  if  carefully  prepared. 


CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 


Always  select  perfect  fruit;  cook  in  porcelain,  never  in  metal. 
In  making  catsup,  instead  of  boiling,  some  sprinkle  the  tomatoes 
with  salt  and  let  them  stand  over  night,  then  strain  and  add  spioee, 
etc.,  and  a  little  sugar.  Bottle  in  glass  or  stone,  and  never  use  tin 
cans ;  keep  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place.  If,  on  opening,  there  is  a 
leathery  mold  on  top,  carefully  remove  every  particle  of  it,  and  the 
catsup  will  not  be  injured.  To  prevent  this  molding,  some  do  not 
fill  the  bottles  quite  to  the  top  with  catsup,  but  fill  up  with  hot 
vinegar.  If  there  are  white  specks  of  mold  all  through  the  catsup 
it  is  spoiled.  If,  on  opening  and  using  a  part,  there  is  danger  that 
the  rest  may  sour,  scald,  and,  if  too  thick,  add  vinegar.  Sauces 
should  always  be  made  with  great  care  in  a  pan  set  in  hot  water, 
having  the  sauce  pan  dean  if  a  delicate  flavor  is  desired,  especially 
if  the  sauce  is  drawn  butter.  Butter  and  those  sauces  containing 
eggs  should  never  boil.  Wooden  spoons  must  be  used  for  stirring. 
An  excellent  thickening  for  soups,  sauces  and  gravies  is  prepared 
as  follows :  Bring  butter  just  to  the  boiling  point  in  a  small  stew- 
pan,  dredge  in  flour,  stirring  together  until  well  cooked.  This, 
when  not  cooked  brown,  is  **  White  Eoux,"  and  when  browned, 
*'  Brown  Roux."  Thin  this  with  a  part  of  the  soup,  sauce  or  gravy, 
and  add  it  to  the  whole,  stirring  thoroughly.  The  flour  may  be 
browned  before  using  if  intended  for  brown  gravies  or  sauces. 
Melted  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of  oil  in  all  recipes  where  the 
latter  is  named. 

Mint,  when  used  in  recipes,  usually  means  "spearmint"  of 
*^  green  mint,**  though  pennyroyal  and  peppermint  are  of  the  same 

(128) 


CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES  129 

fisonily.    The  young  leaves  of  from  one  to  six  inches  in  length  are 
the  parts  used.     It  grows  on  any  good  garden  soil,  but  comes  for- 
ward earlier  in  a  warm,  sunny  spot.     It  is  propagated  by  cuttings 
or  dividing  the  roots  of  old  plants  in  the  spring,  is  very  prolific, 
and  ought  to  find  a  place  in  eVery  garden.    Those  who  have  con- 
aervatories  should  keep  a  root  in  pots,  to  use  with  spring  lamb  be^ 
fore  the  leaves  would  appear  in  the  open  air.      Mint   leaves  for 
drying  should  be  cut  irom  the  stalks  just  before  the  plant  blossoms, 
and  spread  out  thinly  in  some  dry,  shady  place,  where  they  can 
dry  slowly.     When  dry,  put  up  in  paper  bags  and  keep  in  a  dry 
place  until  wanted. 

Cucumber  Catsup. 

Three  dozen  cucumbers  and  eighteen  onions  peeled  and  chopped 
very  fine ;  sprinkle  over  them  three-fourths  pint  table-salt,  put  the 
whole  in  a  sieve,  and  let  drain  well  over  night;  add  a  tea-cup  mus- 
tard seed,  half  tea-cup  ground  black  pepper ;  mix  well,  and  cover 
with  good  cider  vinegar. — Mrs.  Hattie  CleinjnoiiSy  AsheviUe,  N.  C 

Currant  Catsup. 
Four  pounds  nice  fully-ripe  currants,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
sngar,    table-spoon  ground   cinnamon,  a  tea-spoon   each    of  salt, 
ground  cloves  and  pepper,  pint  vinegar ;  stew  currants  and  sugar 
antil  quite  thick,  add  other  ingredients,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Gooseberry  Catsup. 
Nine  pounds  gooseberries,  h\e  pounds  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar, 
three  table-spoons  cinnamon,  one  and  a  half  each  allspice  and  cloves. 
The  gooseberries  should  he  nearly  or  quite  rii)e.  Take  ofi^blossomsy 
wash  and  put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  mash  thoroughly,  scald 
and  put  through  the  colander,  add  sugar  and  spices,  boil  fifteen 
mmutes,  and  add  the  vinegar  cold ;  bottle  immediately  before  it 
cools.  Ripe  grapes  prepared  by  same  rule,  make  an  excellent  cat- 
sup.— Mrs.  Col.  W.  P.  Reid,  Delaware^  Ohio. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Half  bushel  tomatoes,  four  ounces  salt,  three  ounces  ground  black 

pepper,  one  ounce  cinnamon,  half  ounce  ground  cloves,  one  drachm 
9 


180  CAT8X7F8  AND  SAUCES. 

cayenne  pepper,  one  gallon  vinegar;  slioe  the  tomatoes  and  stew  In 
iheir  own  liquor  untQ  soft,  and  rub  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to 
retain  the  seeds ;  IkhI  the  pulp  and  juice  down  to  the  oonsistencj 
of  apple-butter  (very  thick),  stirring  steadily  all  the  time  to  prevent 
burning;  then  add  the  vin^ar  with  which  a  small  tea-cup  sugar  and 
Che  spices  have  been  mixed,  boil  up  twice,  remove  from  fire,  let 
cool  and  bottle.  Those  who  like  the  flavor  of  onions  may  add  about 
half  a  dozen  medium-sized  ones,  peeled  and  sliced,  fifteen  minutes 
before  the  vinegar  and  spices  are  put  in.  —Mrs.  M.  M.  Mtm8eU» 
DdoMJcaret 

ToBiATO  Catsup. 

Take  one  bushel  of  firm  ripe  tomatoes — ^the  Feejee  Island,  known 
by  their  pink  or  purple  color,  and  the  ''Trophy,"  are  the  best  and 
richest  varieties  for  catsup  and  canning.  Wipe  them  ofi*  nicely  with 
a  damp  cloth,  cut  out  the  cores,  and  put  them  in  a  porcelain-lined 
iron  kettle  or  a  genuine  bell-metal  one.  Place  over  the  fire,  and 
pour  over  them  about  three  pints  of  water,  throw  in  two  large 
handfiils  of  peach  leaves,  with  ten  or  twelve  onions  or  shallots  cut  fine. 
Boil  until  the  tomatoes  are  done,  which  will  take  about  two  hours: 
then  strain  through  a  coarse-mesh  sieve,  pour  the  liquid  back  again 
into  the  boiling  kettle  and  add  half  a  gallon  of  good  strong  cider 
vinegar;  have  ready  two  ounces  ground  spice,  two  ounces  ground 
black  pepper,  two  ounces  mustard  (either  ground  or  in  the  seed,  as 
you  prefer),  one  ounce  ground  cloves,  two  grated  nutm^,  two 
pounds  light  brown  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  salt ;  mix  these  ingre- 
dients well  together  before  putting  in  the  boiler ;  then  boil  two 
hours,  stirring  continually  to  prevent  buniing.  If  you  like  the 
jcatsup  "hot,"  add  cayenne  pepper  to  your  taste.  When  cool,  fill 
bottles  (reeded  bottles  are  the  nicest,  they  can  be  procured  at  the 
house  furnisher's,  and  a  set  will  last  some  time ;  they  look  better 
than  ones  of  all  sizes  and  styles).  Cork  and  seal  with  bottle-wax 
so  as  to  exclude  the  air.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place  for  future  use. 
This  recipe  is  preferred  to  all  others — it  has  been  used  for  years. 
It  keeps  well,  and  has  been  pronounced  by  competent  judges  supe* 
lior  to  all  others. — G.  D.,  BaHimore,  Mi. 


CATSUPS  AND  SA  UCES.  131 

Bread  Sauce. 
Place  a  diced  onion  and  six  pepper-corns  in  half  a  pint  of  milk 
over  l)oiling  water,  until  onion  is  perfectly  soft ;  pour  it  on  half  a 
pint  of  bread  crumbs  without  cinist,  and  leave  it  covered  for  an 
hour ;  beat  it  smooth,  add  pinch  of  salt,  and  two  table-spoons 
butter  rubbed  in  a  little  flour;  add  enough  sweet  cream  or  milk 
to  make  it  the  proper  consistency,  and  boil  a  few  minutes.  It, 
must  be  thin  enough  to  pour. — Mrs.  J.  L.  T.,  Denver,  CoL 

Bread  Sauce. 

Half  pint  grated  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  and  one 
onion;  boil  until  the  sauce  is  smooth,  take  out  onion  and  stir  in 
two  spoons  butter  with  salt  and  pepper;  boil  once  and  serve  with 
roast  duck  or  any  kind  of  game. — Mrs.  H.  C.  E. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

After  removing  all  soft  berries,  wash  thoroughly,  place  for  about 
two  minutes  in  scalding  water,  remove,  and  to  every  pound  fruit 
add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  granulated  sugar  and  a  half  pint 
water;  stew  together  over  a  moderate  but  steady  fire.  Be  careful 
to  cover  and  not  to  gtir  the  fruit,  but  occasionally  shake  the  vessel,  or 
apply  a  gentler  heat  if  in  danger  of  sticking  or  burning.  If  atten- 
tion to  these  particulars  be  given,  th^  berries  will  retain  their  shape 
to  a  considerable  extent,  which  adds  greatly  to  their  appearance  on 
the  table.  Boil  from  five  to  seven  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  turn 
into  a  deep  dish,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  If  to  be  kept,  they  can  be  put 
up  at  once  in  air-tight  j^rs.  Or,  for  strained  sauce,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  fruit  should  be  stewed  in  one  pint  of  water  for  ten  or 
twelve  minutes,  or  until  quite  soft,  then  strained  through  a  colander 
or  fine  wire  sieve,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  thoroughly 
stiired  into  the  pulp  thus  obtained;  after  cooling  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Serve  with  roast  turkey  or  game.  When  to  be  kept  for  a  long  time, 
without  sealing,  more  sugar  may  be  added,  but  its  too  free  use 
impaurs  the  peculiar  cranberry  flavor.  For  dinner-sauce  half  a 
pound  is  more  economical,  and  really  preferable  to  three-quarters, 
as  given  above.  It  is  better,  though  not  necessary,  to  use  a  por- 
celain kettle.  Some  prefer  not  to  add  the  sugar  till  the  fruit  is 
almost  done,  thinking  this  plan  makes  it  more  tender,  and  preserves 
the  color  better.— 0.  O.  &  E.  W.  Orane,  CMweU,  N.  J. 


132  CATSUPS  AND  SA  UOES. 

Celery  Sauce. 
Scrape  the  outside  stalka  of  celery  and  cut  in  pieces  an  inch  long, 
let  stand  in  cold  water  half  hour,  then  put  in  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover,  and  cook  until  tender ;  drain  off  water  and  dress  with 
butter,  salt,  and  milk  or  cream,  thickened  with  a  little  flour :  Or» 
make  a  dressing  by  adding  to  half  pint  milk  or  cream,  the  weU- 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  or  grated  nutmeg;  bring  just  to  boiling  point,  pour  over 
6tewed  celery,  and  serve  with  roast  duck. — Mrs.  A.  WiUon. 

Cream  Sauce. 

Heat  one  table-spoon  butter  in  a  skillet,  add  a  tea-spoon  flour, 

and  stir  until  perfectly  smooth,  then  add  gradually  one  cup  of  cold 

milk,  let  boil  up  once,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 

serve.     This  is  very  nice  for  v^etables,  omelets,  fish,  or  sweet 

breads. 

Curry  Powder. 

An  ounce  of  ginger,  one  of  mustard,  one  of  pepper,  three  of  cori- 
ander seed,  three  of  turmeric,  one-half  ounce  cardamom,  quarter  ounce 
cayenne  pepper,  quarter  ounce  cumin  seed ;  pound  all  fine,  sift  and 
cork  tight.  One  tea-spoon  of  powder  is  sufficient  to  season  any  thing. 
This  is  nice  for  boiled  meats  and  stews. — Mrs.  C.  FvUington. 

Cmu  Sauce. 

Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  four  ripe  or  three  green  peppers,  two 

onions,  two  table-spoons  salt,  two  of  sugar,,  one  of  cinnamon,  three 

cups  vinegar ;  peel  tomatoes  and  onions,  chop  (separately)  very  fine, 

add  the  peppers  (chopped)  with  the  other  ingredients,  and  boil  one 

and  a  half  hours.     Bottle  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time.    Stone  juga 

are  better  than  glass  cans.     One  quart  of  canned  tomatoes  may  be 

used  instead  of  the  ripe  ones.     This  Chili  sauce  is  excellent  and 

much  better  and  more  healthful  than  catsups. — Mrs.  E.   W.  Het' 

rickj 

Caper  Sauce. 

To  a  pint  of  drawn  butter,  add  three  table-spoons  of  capers* 
Serve  with  boiled  or  roast  mutton.  Another  method  is  the  follow- 
ing: Fifteen  minutes  before  the  mutton  is  done,  melt  two  table- 
spoons butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  into'it  one  table-spoon  flour  ;  whes 
thoroughly  mixed  add  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  mui 


CATSUPS  AND  8A  UCES.  188 

ton  is  boiling,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
cook  a  few  minutes  (to  swell  the  grains  of  the  flour),  and  just  be- 
fore serving  (in  order  that  their  color  may  not  be  lost  by  standing) 
add  two  heaped  table-spoons  capers. 

Caper  Butter. 
Chop  one  table-spoon  of  capers  very  fine,  rub  through  a  sieve 
with  a  wooden  spoon,    and  mix  them  with  a  salt-spoon  of  salt, 
quarter  of  a  salt-spoon  of  peppor,  and  one  ounce  of  cold  butter. 
Put  a  layer  of  this  butter  on  a  dish,  and  serve  fish  on  it. 

Drawn  Butter. 
Rub  a  small  cup  of  butter  into  half  a  table-spoon  flour,  beating  it 
to  a  cream,  adding,  if  needed,  a  little  salt;  pour  on  it  half  a  pint 
boiling  water,  stirring  it  fast,  and  taking  care  not  to  let  it  quite  boil, 
as  boiling  makes  it  oUy  and  unfit  for  use.  The  boiling  may  be  pre- 
vented by  placing  the  sauce-pan  containing  it  in  a  larger  one  of  boil- 
ing water,  covering  and  shaking  frequently  until  it  reaches  the 
boiling  point.  A  great  variety  of  sauces  which  are  excellent  to  eat 
with  fish,  poultry,  or  boiled  meats,  can  be  made  by  adding  different 
herbs,  such  as  parsley,  mint,  or  sweet  marjoram,  to  drawn  butter. 
First  throw  them  into  boiling  water,  cut  fine,  and  they  are  ready  to 
be  added,  when  serve  immediately,  with  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine.  This  makes  a  nice  sauce  to  serve  with  baked  fish. 
The  chopped  inside  of  a  lemon  with  the  seeds  out,  to  which  the 
chicken  liver  has  been  added,  makes  a  good  sauce  for  boiled  chicken. 
For  anchovy  sauce,  add  two  tea-spoons  of  anchovy  extract  or  paste 
(kept  by  all  grocers)  to  a  half  pint  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  and 
8tir  well.  For  lobster  sauce,  chop  the  meat  of  the  tail  and  claws 
of  a  good-sized  lobster  into  pieces  (not  too  small).  Half  an  hour 
before  dinner,  make  half  a  pint  of  drawn-butter,  add  the  chopped 
lobster,  a  pinch  of  coral,  another  of  cayenne,  and  a  little  salt. 
When  done  it  should  not  be  a  solid  mass,  but  the  pieces  of  lobster 
should  appear  distinctly  in  the  thin  cream. 

Greek  Tomato  Sauce. 
Cut  up  two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes;    take  three  gills  black 
mustard  seed,  three  table-spoons  dry  mustard,  two  and  a  half  of 
Uack  pepper,  one  and  a  half  allspice,  four  of  salt,  two  of  celery 


134  CATSUPS  AND  SA  UCES. 

seed,  one  quart  each  of  chopped  onions  and  sugar,  and  two  and 
a  half  quarts  good  vinegar,  a  little  red  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the 
»pices  and  boil  all  together  until  well  done. 

HOLLANDAISE  SaUCE. 

Beat  half  a  tea-cup  butter  in  a  bowl  to  a  cream,  add  yolkp  of  two 
eggs,  one  bj  one,  then  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  half  a  tea-spoon  salt;  place  this  in  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling 
water,  beat  with  an  egg  l>eater,  fbr  a  minute  or  two,  until  it  begins 
to  thicken,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  beating  all  the 
time.  When  like  soft  custard  it  is  done.  It  will  take  five  minutes 
to  cook  if  the  bowl  is  thin  and  the  water  boils  all  the  time. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Cut  three  slices  of  lemon  into  very  small  dice,  and  put  them  into 
drawn  butter,  let  it  come  just  to  boiling  point,  and  pour  over  boiled 
fowls. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce. 

Mix  in  a  two-quart  bowl  one  even  tea-spoon  ground  mustard,  one 
of  salt,  and  one  and  a  half  of  vinegar ;  beat  in  the  yolk  of  a  raw 
egg,  then  add  very  gi'adually  half  a  pint  pure  olive-oil  (or  melted 
butter),  beating  briskly  all  the  time.  The  mixture  will  become  a 
very  thick  batter.  Flavor  with  vinegar  or  fresh  lemon-juice. 
Closely  covered  it  will  keep  for  weeks  in  a  cold  place,  and  is 
delicious. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Take  fresh,  young  mint,  strip  leaves  from  stems,  wash,  drain  on 
a  sieve,  or  dry  them  on  a  cloth ;  chop  very  fine,  put  in  a  sauce- 
tureen,  and  to  three  heaped  table-spoons  mint  add  two  of  pounded 
sugar;  let  remain  a  few  minutes  well  mixed  together,  and  pour  over 
it  gradually  six  table-spoons  of  good  vinegar.  If  members  of  the 
family  like  the  flavor,  but  not  the  substance  of  the  mint,  the  sauce 
may  be  strained  after  it  has  stood  for  two  or  three  hours,  pressing 
it  well  to  extract  all  the  flavor.  It  is  better  to  make  the  sauce  an 
hour  or  two  before  dinner,  so  that  the  vinegar  may  be  impregnated 
with  the  mint.  The  addition  of  three  or  four  table-spoons  of  the 
liquor  from  the  boiling  lamb  is  an  improvement. 


CA  T8UP8,  AND  8A  UCES.  136 

Oyster  Sauce. 
Set  a  basin  on  the  fire  with  half  pint  oysters,  from  which  all  bits 
of  shell  have  been  picked,  and  one  pint  boiling  water ;  let  boil  three 
minutes,  skim  well,  and  then  stir  in  half  a  cup  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  with  two  table-spoons  flour ;  let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  serve 
with  boiled  turkey.  Or,  make  drawn  butter,  add  a  few  drops  lemon- 
juice,  a  tablespoon  of  capers,  or  a  few  drops  vinegar,  add  oysters* 
drained  of  the  liquor,  and  let  come  to  boiling  point.  The  sauce 
is  richer  if  cream  instead  of  water  is  used  in  making  the  drawn 
butter,  but  in  this  case  do  not  add  the  lemon-juice  or  vinegar. — 

Onioh  Sauce. 
Boil  three  or  four  white  onions  till  tender,  mince  fine ;  boil  half 
pint  milk,  add  butter  half  size  of  an  eggy  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  stir  in  minced  onion  and  a  table-spoon  of  flour  which  has  been 
moistened  with  milk. — E,  H.  W. 

Roman  Sauce. 
Put  one  tea-cup  water  and  one  tea-cup  milk  on  fire  to  scald,  and 
when  hot  stir  in  a  table-spoon  flour,  previously  mixed  smooth  with  a 
very  little  cold  water,  add  three  eggs  well  beaten  and  stramed, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  two  table-spoons  butter  and  a  little 
vinegar ;  boil  four  eggs  hard,  slice  and  lay  over  the  dish  ;  pour  over 
sauce,  and  serve  with  boiled  fish. — Mrs.  E.  T.  E. 

Tartare  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  gill  of  salad-oil  (or  melted  butter),  salt-spoon 

salt,  half  a  salt-spoon  pepper,  a  table-spoon  good  cider  vinegar,  half 

tea-spoon  mustard,  a  table-spoon  of  gherkins.     Beat  together  in  a 

amall  bowl  lightly  the  vinegar  and  yolks,  add  to  these,  drop  by  drop, 

the  salad-oil  or  melted  butter,  taking  care  to  stir  the  same  way  all  - 

the  time;  when  this  is  done,  season  the  mixture  with  pepper,  salt 

and  mustard ;  add  also  the  gherkins  finely  chopped  (or  capers  may 

be  substituted),  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat  with  boiled  salmon  or 

cold  meats. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Stew  ten  tomatoes  with  three  cloves,  and  pepper  and  salt,  for  fif- 
teen minutes  (some  add  a  sliced  onion  and  sprig  of  parsley),  strain 
through  a  sieve,  put  on  the  stove  in  a  saucepan  in  which  a  lump  of 


136  OA  TSUFS  AND  SA  UCES. 

butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  level  table-spoon  flour  Have  been  well 
mixed  and  cooked  ;  stir  all  until  smooth  and  serve.  Canned  toma- 
toes may  be  used  as  a  substitute. 

Prepared  Mustard. 

Take  three  tea-ppoons  ground  mustard,  one  of  flour  (two  if  the 
mustard  seems  very  strong),  half  tea-spoon  of  sugar;  pour  boiling 
water  on  these  and  mix  into  a  smooth,  thick  paste ;  when  cold  add 
vinegar  enough  to  make  ready  for  use,  and  serve  with  salt  This 
resembles  the  French  mustard. —ifrs.  Mary  Herbert  Huntington. 

To  Prepare  Horse-radish  for  Winter. 

In  the  fall,  mix  the  quantity  wanted  in  the  following  proportions: 
A  coffee-cup  of  grated  horse-radish,  two  table-spoons  white  sugar, 
half  tea-spoon  salt,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  cold  vinegar ;  bottle  and 
seal.  To  make  horse-radish  sauce,  take  two  table-spoons  of  the 
above,  add  one  dessert-spoon  olive  oil  (or  melted  butter  or  cream), 
and  one  of  prepared  mustard. — From  a  Sovihem  hotLsekeeper. 

Shrimp  Sauce. 

Skin  a  (umbler  of  shrimps,  boil  skins  in  a  tumbler  of  water ; 
strain  this  water  in  two-thirds  tumbler  butter  previously  rubbed 
into  a  heaped  table-spoon  flour,  simmer  a  few  minutes,  add 
shrimps  finely  chopped,  let  stew  until  done.  Little  cooking  is  need- 
ed ;  salt,  pepper  and  catsup  to  taste.     A  good  fish  sauce. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

Take  forty  black  walnuts  that  you  can  stick  a  pin  through,  mash 
and  put  them  in  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  boil  it  down  to  three  quarts 
and  strain ;  add  a  few  cloves  of  garlic  or  onions,  with  any  spice 
liked,  and  salt.     When  cool,  bottle.    Have  good  corks. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Pepper  Vinegar. 

• 

Fill  a  quart  bottle  with  small  peppers,  green  or  ripe,  put  in  two 
table-spoons  of  sugar,  and  fill  with  good  cider  vinegar.  Good  to 
eat  with  fish  or  meat,  and  invaluable  in  seasoning  sauces. — Mr»,  8,  T. 


DRINKS. 


To  avoid  adulteration,  buy  coffee  in  the  grain,  either  raw  or  in 
nnall  quantities  freshly  roasted.  The  best  kinds  are  the  Mocha  and 
Java,  and  some  prefer  to  mix  the  two,  having  roasted  them  separ 
rately  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  of  the  former  to  two-thirds  of 
the  latter.  West  India  coffee,  though  of  a  different  flavor,  is  often 
very  good. 

Roast  coffee  with  the  greatest  care — for  here  lies  the  secret  of 
success  in  coffee-making— and  in  small  quantities,  for  there  is  a 
peculiar  freshness  of  flavor  when  newly  roasted.  Pick  over  care- 
fully, wash  and  <lry  in  :i  niodenite  oven,  increase  the  heat  and  roast 
quickly,  either  in  the  oven, or  on  top  of  the  stove  or  range;  in  the 
latter  case, stir  constantly ,  and  i  n  t  he  oven  stir  ofteny  with  a  wooden 
spoon  or  ladle  kept  for  that  pu r  pose.  The  coffee  must  be  thoroughly 
and  evenly  roasted  to  a  dark  rich  brown  (not  black)  throughout,  and 
must  be  free  from  any  burnt  grains,  a  few  of  which  will  ruin  the 
flavor  of  a  large  quantity.  It  must  be  tender  and  brittle,  to  test 
which  take  a  grain,  place  it  on  the  table,  press  with  the  thumb,  and 
if  it  can  be  crushed,  it  is  done.  Stir  in  a  lump  of  butter  while  the 
ix>ffee  is  hot,  or  wait  until  about  half  cold  and  then  stir  in  a  well- 
beaten  egg.  The  latter  plan  is  very  economical,  as  cof!^  so  pre- 
pared needs  no  further  clarifying.  Keep  in  a  closely-covered  tin  or 
earthen  vessel.  Never  attempt  other  work  while  roasting  coffee, 
but  give  it  the  entire  attention.  Do  not  grind  too  fine,  and  only  in 
quantities  as  needed,  for  the  flavor  is  dissipated  if  it  is  long  unused 
after  grinding,  even  when  under  cover.  If  properly  roasted,  coffee 
will  grind  into  distinct,  hard,  and  gritty  particles,  and  not  into  a 
powder. 

087) 


188  DRINKS. 

Physicians  say  that  cofBde  without  cream  is  more  wholesome,  paiv 
ticularly  for  persons  of  weak  digestion.  There  seems  to  be  some 
element  in  the  cofiee  which,  combining  with  the  milk,  forms  a 
leathery  coating  on  the  stomach,  and  impairs  digestion. 

If  soft  water  is  used  for  making  tea,  tea  should  be  added  as  soon 
as  it  boils,  as  boiling  expels  all  the  gases  from  the  water,  but  if  soft 
water  can  not  be  had,  and  hard  water  is  used,  boil  it  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes  before  using.  The  boiling  drives  off  the  gases  in 
this  case,  but  it  also  causes  the  lime  and  mineral  matters,  which 
render  the  water  hard,  to  settle,  thus  softening  it. 


Making  Coffee. 

''One  for  the  pot"  and  a  heaping  table-spoon  of  ground  cofiee 
for  each  person,  is  the  usual  allowance.  Mix  well,  either  with  a 
part  or  the  whole  of  an  egg  (or  codfish  skin,  washed,  dried,  and 
cut  in  inch  pieces,  may  be  used  instead  of  egg)y  and  enough  cold 
water  to  thoroughly  moisten  it,  place  in  a  well-scalded  coffee-boiler^ 
pour  in  half  the  quantity  of  boiling  water  needed,  allowing  one 
pint  less  of  water  than  there  are  table-spoons  of  cofiee.  Boll  a  cloth 
tightly  and  stop  up  the  nose  or  spout,  thus  keeping  in  all  the  coffee 
flavor.  Boil  rather  fast  five  minutes,  stirrbg  down  from  the  top 
and  sides  as  it  boils  up,  and  place  on  back  part  of  stove  or  range 
where  it  will  only  simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer.  When 
ready  to  serve  add  the  remainder  of  the  boiling  water.  Or,  another 
method  of  making  coffee  without  clearing,  is  to  stir  the  cofiee 
directly  into  the  boiling  water,  boil  and  simmer  as  above,  then 
pour  out  a  large  cupftil,  and,  holding  it  high  over  the  pot,  pour  it 
in  again ;  repeat  this,  and  set  it  on  stove  where  it  will  keep  hot, 
without  simmering.  The  coffee  will  be  clear,  if  instructions  are 
carefully  followed.  Coffee  boiled  a  long  time  is  strong,  but  not  so 
well  flavored  or  agreeable  as  when  prepared  as  above. 

To  keep  the  coffee-pot  or  tea-pot  thoroughly  pure,  boil  a  little 
borax  in  them,  in  water  enough  to  touch  the  whole  inside  surface, 
once  or  twice  a  week,  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  No  dish-water 
should  ever  touch  the  inside  of  either.  It  is  sufiicient  to  rinse  them 
in  two  or  three  waters;  this  should  be  done  as  soon  after  they  are 
used  as  possible ;  drun  dry,  and  when  ready  to  use  scald  out  in 


DRINKS.  139 

two  waters.  These  precautions  will  aid  in  preserving  the  flavor  of 
the  tea  and  coffee.  In  selecting  coffee,  choose  that  which  is  dry 
and  light ;  if  it  feels  dense  and  heavy  it  is  green. 

Filtered  Coffee. 

The  French  coffee  biggin  furnishes  the  easiest  means  for  filtering 
coffee.  It  consists  of  two  cylindrical  tin  vessels,  one  fitting  into  the 
other ;  the  bottom  of  the  upper  one  is  a  fine  strainer,  another  coarser 
strainer  is  placed  on  this  with  a  rod  running  upwards  from  its 
center;  the  finely  ground  coffee  is  put  in,  and  then  another  strainer 
is  slipped  on  the  rod,  over  the  coffee,  the  boiling  water  is  poured 
on  the  upper  sieve  and  falls  in  a  shower  upon  the  coffee,  filtering 
through  it  to  the  coarse  strainer  at  the  bottom,  which  prevents  the 
coffee  from  filling  up  the  holes  of  the  finer  strainer  below  it  The 
coffee  thus  made  is  clear  and  pure. 

The  National  Cofl^pot  is  so  widely  known  as  not  to  need  des- 
cription here,  but  the  "  gude  wife "  can  improvise  one  equally  as 
desirable  and  much  simpler.  Make  a  sack  of  fine  flannel,  or, 
canton  flannel,  as  long  as  the  coffee-pot  is  deep,  and  a  little  larger 
than  the  top ;  stich  up  the  side  seam  to  within  an  inch  and  a  half 
of  the  top,  bend  a  piece  of  small  but  rather  stiff  wire  in  a  circle  and 
dip  it  through  a.  hem  made  around  the  top  of  the  sack,  bringing 
the  ends  together  at  the  opening  left  at  the  top  of  the  side  seam. 
Having  put  the  coffee  in  the  sack,  lower  it  mto  tne  conee-poi  witn 
the  ends  of  the  wire  next  the  handle,  spread  the  ends  of  the  wire 
apart  slightly,  and  push  it  down  over  the  top  of  the  pot.  The  top 
of  the  sack  will  then  he  turned  down  a  little  over  the  outside  of  the 
pot,  a  part  of  it  covering  the  "  nose,"  and  keeping  in  all  the  aroma, 
the  elasticity  of  the  wire  causing  it  to  close  tight  around  the  pot, 
holding  the  sack  close  to  its  sides.  Instead  of  a  wire  (which  must 
be  removed  to  wash  the  sack  after  using),  a  tape  may  be  used  by 
tying  the  ends  after  turning  the  top  of  sack  down.  When  the  sack, 
with  the  coffee  in  it  is  in  its  place,  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the 
coffee,  close  the  lid  tightly,  and  let  simmer  (not  boil)  fifteen  min- 
utes to  half  an  hour.  In  pouring  for  the  table  raise  the  sack  off 
the  nose  but  not  out  of  the  pot.  This  makes  good  coffee  without 
eggg  or  any  thing  else  to  settle  it 


140  DRINKS. 

MAKiya  Tea. 

"  Polly,  put  the  kettle  on,  and  we  II  all  Uke  Tea." 

Of  all  ''cups  that  cheer/'  there  is  nothing  like  the  smoking-hot 
cup  of  tea,  made  with  boUing  water,  in  a  tkoroiighiy  scalded  tea-pot. 
Put  into  the  pot  the  required  amount  of  tea,  pour  over  it  boiling 
water,  cover  the  tea-pot  so  that  no  steam  may  escape,  and  allow  the 
tea  to  stand  and  in^se  for  seven  minutes,  when  it  should  be  poured 
at  once  into  the  cups.  If  allowed  to  infuse  longer  than  this  time, 
which  is  sufficient  to  draw  out  the  strength  of  the  leaf,  the  tannin 
is  developed,  which  gives  an  acrid,  bitter  taste,  and  being  a  power- 
ful astringent,  is  destructive  to  the  coating  of  the  stomach.  To 
insure  "keeping  hot"  while  serving,  in  a  different  tea-pot  from 
that  in  which  the  tea  is  made,  the  simple  contrivance  known  as  the 
'' bonnet '*  is  warranted  a  sure  preventive  against  that  most  in- 
sipid of  all  drinks — a  warmish  cup  of  tea.  It  is  merely  a  sack, 
with  a  loose  gathering-tape  in  the  bottom,  large  enough  to  cover 
« and  encircle  the  tea-pot,  with  a  small  opening  to  fit  the  spout,  and 
a  slit  through  which  the  handle  will  be  exposed.  IVfake  it  with  odd 
pieces  of  silk,  satin  or  cashmere,  lined,  quilted  or  embroidered ; 
draw  this  over  the  tea-pot  as  soon  as  the  tea  is  poured  into  it ;  draw 
up  the  gathering-string  tightly  at  the  bottom,  and  the  tea  will 
remain  piping  hot  for  half  an  hour.  One  tea-spoon  of  tea  and  one 
tea-cup  of  hot  water  is  the  usual  allowance  for  each  person.  FteMy 
boiled  soft  water  is  the  best  for  either  tea  or  coffee.  Always  have 
a  water-pot  of  hot  water  on  the  waiter  with  which  to  weaken  each 
cup  if  desired.  Tea  should  never  boil.  The  most  elegant  mode  of 
serving  tea  is  from  the  tea-urn,  various  forms  and  designs  of  which 
are  made  in  silver  -and  plated  ware.  The  best  tea-pot  is  that  which 
retains  heat  longest,  and  this  is  a  hrigid  metal  one,  as  it  radiates  the 
least  heat,  but  the  metal  must  be  kept  bright  and  polished.  Serve 
both  tea  and  coffee  with  the  best  and  richest  cream,  but  in  the 
absence  of  this  luxury,  a  tolerable  substitute  is  prepared  as  follows : 
Take  fresh,  new  milk,  set  in  a  pan  or  pail  in  boiling  water  where  it 
will  slowly  simmer,  but  not  boil  or  reach  the  boiling  point,  stir  fre- 
quently to  keep  the  cream  from  separating  and  rising  to  the  top, 
and  aUow  to  simmer  until  it  is  rich,  thick  and  creamy.     In  absence 


" 


I 


DRINKS.  141 

of  both  cream  and  milk,  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  with 
a  small  bit  of  butter  well  mixed  with  it,  may  be  used.  In  pouring 
oofiee,  it  must  be  turned  on  gradually  so  as  not  to  curdle  it. 


Army  Coffee. 

Cofiee  or  tea  may  be  made  quickly  by  placing  the  required  quan- 
tity of  cold  water  in  the  pot,  and  adding  the  coffee,  tied  up  in  a^ 
Back  of  fine  gauze,  or  piece  of  muslin ;  bring  to  boiling  point,  boil' 
five  minutes  and  serve.  Make  tea  in  the  same  way,  except  that 
the  tea  is  put  loose  in  the  water,  and  simply  allowed  to  boil  up  once. 

Coffee  with  Whipped  Cream. 

For  six  cups  of  coffee  of  fair  size,  take  one  cup  sweet  cream 
whipped  light  with  a  little  sugar ;  put  into  each  cup  the  desired 
amount  of  sugar  and  about  a  table-spoon  boiling  milk ;  pour  the 
coffee  over  these  and  lay  upon  the  surface  of  the  hot  liquid  a  large 
spoonful  of  the  frothed  cream,  giving  a  gentle  stir  to  each  cup  be- 
fore serving.  This  is  known  to  some  as  meringued  coffee,  and  is  an 
elegant  IVench  preparation  of  the  popular  drink.  Chocolate  served 
m  this  wav  is  delicious. — Marion  Harland, 

Coffee  for  One  Hundred. 
Take  five  pounds  roasted  coffee,  grind  and  mix  with  six  eggs ; 

make  small  muslin  sacks,  and  in  each  place  a  pint  of  coffee,  leaving 

room  for  it  to  swell ;  put  five  gallons  boiling  water  in  a  large  cofiee 

urn  or  boiler  having  a  faucet  at  the  bottom ;  put  in  part  of  the  sacks 

and  boil  two  hours ;  five  or  ten  minutes  before  serving  raise  the  lid 

and  add  one  or  two  more  sacks,  and  if  you  continue  serving  several 

times  add  fresh  sacks  at  regular  intervals,  taking  out  from  time  to 

time  those  first  put  in  and  filling  up  with  boiling  water  as  needed. 

In  this  way  the  full  strength  of  the  coffee  is  secured  and  the  fresh 

supplies  impart  that  delicious  flavor  consequent  on  a  few  momenta 

boiling. 

To  make  coffee  for  twenty  persons,  us6  one  and  a  half  pints 
ground  cofiee  and  one  gallon  of  water. — Mrs.  C.  8.  Ogden. 

Steamed  Coffee.  , 

Put  coffee  into  the  pot,  pour  the  boiling  water  on  it ;  place  tliis 
pot  (which  is  made  to  fit)  into  the  top  of  the  tea-kettle,  and  let 
cook  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes,  while  water  in  kettle  is  kept 


142  DRINKSL 

boiling  all  the  time.  This  makes  a  clear,  delicious  coffee.  Some 
persons  hold  that  by  first  wetting  the  coffee  with  cold  water,  bring- 
ing  it  to  boiling  point,  and  then  pouring  in  water,  more  of  the  strength 
is  extracted. 

Vienna  Coffee. 

Filter  instead  of  boibng  the  cofilee,  allowing  one  table-spoon  ground 
coffee  to  each  person  and  ''  one  for  the  pot;'*  put  a  quart  of  cream 
into  a  custard-kettle  or  pail  set  in  boiling  water,  and  put  it  where  it 
will  keep  boiling ;  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  and  mix 
well  with  three  table-spoons  cold  milk.  As  soon  as  the  cream  is 
hot,  remove  from  fire,  add  the  mixed  egg  and  milk,  stir  together 
briskly  for  a  minute,  and  then  serve. 

Another  method  is  U)  pour  boiling  water  over  the  coffee,  cover 
closely,  boil  one  minute,  remove  tc  the  side  of  the  stove  a  few  min* 
utes  to  settle,  and  serve.  Allow  two  heaping  table-spoons  coflee  to 
a  pint  of  water.  The  less  time  the  coffee  is  cooked  the  more  coffee 
18  required,  but  the  finer  the  flavor.  The  late  Professor  Blot  pro- 
tested against  boiling  the  coffee  at  all,  as  in  his  opinion  the  aroma 
was  evaporated,  and  only  the  bitter  flavor  left. 

Chocolate. 

Take  six  table-spoons  scraped  chocolate,  or  three  of  chocolate  and 
three  of  cocoa,  dissolve  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  boil  hard  fifteen 
minutes,  add  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  let  scald  and  serve  hot ;  this 
IS  enough  for  six  persons.  Cocoa  can  also  be  made  after  this  recipe. 
Some  boil  either  cocoa  or  chocolate  only  one  minute  and  then  serve, 
while  others  make  it  the  day  before  using,  boiling  it  for  one  hour, 
and  when  cool  skimming  off  the  oil,  and  when  wanted  for  use,  heat 
it  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the  milk.  In  this  way  it  is  equally 
good  and  much  more  wholesome.  Cocoa  is  firom  the  seed  of  the 
fruit  of  a  small  tropical  tree.  There  are  several  forms  in  which  it 
is  sold,  the  most  nutritious  and  convenient  being  chocolate,  the 
next  cocoa,  then  cocoa  nibs,  and  last  cocoa  shells.  The  ground 
bean  is  simply  cocoa;  ground  fine  and  mixed  with  sugar  it  is  choco- 
]ate ;  the  beans  broken  into  bits  are  "  nibs."  The  shells  are  the 
shells  of  the  bean,  usually  removed  before  grinding.  The  beans 
are  roasted  like  coffee,  and  ground  between  hot  rollers. 


DEINKS.  143 

Vienna  Chocolate. 

Put  into  a  co£fee-pot  set  in  boiling  water,  one  quart  of  new  milk 

{or  a  pint  each  of  cream  and  milk),  stir  into  it  three  heaping  table- 

Bpoons  grated  chocolate  mixed  to  a  paste  with  cold  milk,  let  it  boil 

two  or  three  minutes,  and  serve  at  once.    To  make  good  chocolate, 

good  materials  are  required. 

Cider. 

Cider  should  be  made  from  ripe  apples  only,  and  for  this  reason, 
and  to  prevent  fermentation,  it  is  better  to  make  it  late  in  the 
season.  Use  only  the  be^t-flavored  grafted  fruit,  rejecting  all  that 
are  decayed  or  wormy.  The  best  mills  crush,  not  grind,  the  apples. 
The  utmost  neatness  is  necessary  throughout  the  process.  Press  and 
strain  juice  as  it  comes  from  the  press  through  a  woollen  cloth  into 
a  perfectly  clean  barrel;  let  stand  two  or  three  days  if  cool,  if 
warm  not  more  than  a  day;  rack  once  a  week  for  four  weeks,  put 
in  bottles  and  cork  tightly.  This  will  make  perfect  unfermented 
cider.  Do  not  put  any  thing  in  it  to  preserve  it,  as  all  so-called 
preservatives  are  humbugs.  Lay  the  bottles  away  on  their  sides  in 
sawdust. — C.  T.  Canon,  Ml,  Pleasant  Farm, 

Bottled  Cider. 

Take  good  sweet  cider  (if  a  tart  flavor  is  wished,  let  it  just  be- 
g^  to  ferment),  put  on  stove,  sldm  tfumyughly  (as  the  great  secret  is 
to  remove  all  pumice  from  the  cider),  heat  to  boiling  point,  but  do 
not  allow  it  to  boil,  and  then  pour  in  bottles  or  jugs  and  seal  while 
hot  Some  put  two  or  three  raisins  in  each  bottle  or  jug.  This 
keeps  all  winter.  It  certainly  makes  a  richer  drink  than  when 
fresh,  and  as  cider  is  pronounced  a  great  remedy  for  colds,  aU 
should  know  this  simple  way  of  keeping  it.  ^ 

Orandmotheb^s  Harvest  Drink. 

One  quart  of  water,  table-spoon  sifted  gingCTi  three  heaping 
table-spoons  sugar,  half  pint  vinegar. 

Egonoo. 

Stir  half  a  cup  of  sugar  (white),  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten, 
bto  one  quart  of  rich  cream;  add  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  flavor  with 
nutmeg,  and  lastly  add  whites  of  the  eggs  well  whipped. — M,  H. 


144  DRINKS, 

Raspberry  Shrub. 
Place  red  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  them  with  good  elder 
vinegar,  let  stand  over  night ;  next  morning  strain,  and  to  one  pint 
of  juice  add  one  pint  of  sugar,  boil  ten  minutes,  and  bottle  while 

hot. — Mrs.  Judge  Wed. 

Syllabub. 

Place  half  a  pint  of  port  and  six  heaping  table-spoons  of  white 

sugar  in  a  bowl ;  in  another  vessel  put  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  or 

cream,  lukewarm ;  when  sugar  dissolves,  pour  in  milk,  holding  it 

high,  grate  nutmeg  over  it.— Mrs.  M.  E.' Porter,  Prince  Oeorge 

Court  House,  Va. 

Soda  Beer. 
Two  pounds  white  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  ounces  tartaric 

acid,  two  table-spoons  flour,  two  quarts  water  and  juice  of  one 

lemon;   boil  two  or  three  minutes,  and  flavor  to  taste.     When 

wanted  for  use,  take  a  half  tea-spoon  soda,  dissolve  in  half  a  glass 

of  water,  pour  into  it  about  two  table-spoons  of  the  acid,  and  it  will 

foam  to  the  top  of  the  glass. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Sampson. 

Lemon  Syrup. 
Take  the  juice  of  twelve  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  six  in  it,  let  it 

stand  over  night,  then  take  six  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  make  a 

thick  syrup.     When  it  is  quite  cool,  strain  the  juice  into  it,  and 

SQueeze  as  much  oil  from  the  grated  rind  as  will  suit  the  taste.     A 

table-spoonful  in  a  goblet  of  water  will  make  a  delicious  drink  on  a 

hot  day,  fiir  superior  to  that  prepared  from  the  stuff  commonly 

sold  as  lemon  syrup. — Miss  Abbie  O.  Backus. 

Iced  Tea. 
Prepare  tea  in  the  morning,  making  it  stronger  and  sweeter  than 

usual;  strain  and  pour  into  a  clean  stone  jug  or  glass  bottle,  and 
set  aside  in  the  ice-chest  until  ready  to  use.  Drink  from  goblets 
without  cream.  Serve  ice  broken  in  small  pieces  on  a  platter  nicely 
garnished  with  well-washed  grape-leaves.  Iced  tea  may  be  pre- 
pared from  either  green  or  black  alone,  but  it  is  considered  an  im- 
provement to  mix  the  two.  Tea  made  like  that  for  iced  tea  (or  that 
left  in  the  tea-pot  after  a  meal),  with  sugar  to  taste,  a  slice  or  two 
of  lemon,  a  little  of  the  juice,  and  some  pieces  of  cracked  ice, 
makes  a  delightful  drink.     Serve  in  {i^lasses. 


EGGS. 


The  fresher  they  are  the  better  and  more  wholesome,  though 
new-laid  eggs  require  to  be  cooked  longer  thaa  others.  Eggs  over" 
a  week  old  will  do  to  fry,  but  not  to  boil.  In  boiling,  they  are  less 
likely  to  crack  if  dropped  in  water  not  quite  to  the  boiling  point. 
Eggs  will  cook  soil  in  three  minutes,  hard  in  five,  very  hard  (to 
serve  with  salads,  or  to  slice  thin — seasoned  well  with  pepper  and 
salt— and  put  between  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter)  in  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes.  There  is  an  objection  to  the  ordinary  way  of  boil- 
ing eggs  not  generally  understood.  The  white,  under  three  min- 
utes rapid  cooking,  is  toughened  and  becomes  indigestible,  and  yet 
the  yolk  is  left  uncooked.  To  be  wholesome,  eggs  should  be  cooked 
evenly  to  the  center,  and  this  result  is  best  reached  by  putting  the 
eggs  into  a  dish  having  a  tight  cover  (a  tin  pail  will  do),  and 
pouring  boiling  water  over  them  in  the  proportion  of  two  quarts  to 
a  dozen  eggs ;  cover,  and  set  away  from  the  stove ;  after  cooking 
about  seven  minutes  remove  cover,  turn  the  eggs,  replace  cover, 
and  in  six  or  seven  minutes  they  will  be  done  if  only  two  or  three 
eggs ;  if  more,  in  about  ten  minutes.  The  heat  of  the  water  cooks 
the  eggs  slowly  to  a  jelly-like  consistency,  and  leaves  the  yolk  harder 
than  the  white.  The  egg  thus  cooked  is  very  nice  and  rich.  To 
fiy  eggs,  after  fiying  ham,  drop  one  by  one  in  the  hot  fat  and  dip 
it  over  them,  until  the  white  is  set ;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve  hot ;  cook  from  three  to  five  minutes,  according  to  taste. 

Put  eggs  in  water  in  a  vessel  with  a  smooth  level  bottom,  to  tell 
good  from  bad ;  those  which  lie  on  the  side  are  good,  but  reject 

10  (146) 


146  EQQ& 

those  which  stand  on  end  as  bad ;  or,  look  through  each  egg  separ 
^  ratelj  toward  the  son,  or  toward  a  lamp  in  a  darkened  room ;  if  the 
*  white  looks  dear,  and  the  yolk  can  be  easily  distinguished,  the  egg 
b  good ;  if  a  dark  spot  appears  in  either  white  or  yolk,  it  is  stale ; 
if  they  appear  heavy  and  dark,  or  if  they  gurgle  when  shaken 
gently,  they  are  '*  totally  depraved."  The  best  and  safest  plan  is 
to  break  each  egg  in  a  saucer  before  using.  For  preserving  eggs 
for  winter  use,  always  secure  fresh  ones ;  after  packing,  cover  closely 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

TO  MAKE  OMELETS. 

To  make  an  omelet,  beat  the  yolks  lightly  (twelve  beats  is  said 
to  be  the  magic  number),  as  too  much  beating  makes  them  thin 
and  destroys  the  appearance  of  the  omelet,  then  add  the  milk,  the 
salt,  pepper,  and  flour  if  any  is  used,  and  lastly  the  whites  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  the  skillet  as  hot  as  it  can  be  without 
scorching  the  butter ;  put  in  a  table-spoon  of  butter  and  pour  in 
the  omelet,  which  should  at  once  begin  to  bubble  and  rise  in  flakes. 
Slip  under  it  a  thin,  broad-bladed  knife,  and  every  now  and  then 
raise  it  up  to  prevent  burning.  As  soon  as  the  under  side  is  hard 
enough  to  hold  together,  and  the  eggs  begin  to  ''set,"  fold  over, 
shake  the  skillet  so  as  to  entirely  free  the  omelet,  carefully  slide  it 
on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  at  once.  It  should  be  cooked  in  fit>m 
three  to  five  minutes.  To  bake  an  omelet,  place  in  the  frying-pan 
on  top  of  stove  until  it  begins  to  *'  set"  in  the  middle,  then  place  in 
a  rather  hot  oven ;  when  slightly  browned,  fold  if  you  like,  or  turn 
a  hot  dish  on  top  of  the  pan,  upset  the  latter  with  a  quick  motion, 
and  so  dish  the  omelet  with  the  under  side  uppermost.  It  should 
be  baked  in  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Where  a  large  quantity  of 
eggs  are  used,  instead  of  making  into  one  large  omelet,  divide  and 
make  several,  sending  each  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done.  Three 
eggs  make  a  good-sized  omelet.  Ham,  chicken,  and  all  kinds  of 
meat  omelets,  are  made  by  chopping  the  meat  fine  and  placing 
between  the  folds  before  dishing.  In  making  vegetable  (asparagus, 
tomatoes,  cauliflower,  etc.)  omelets,  cook  the  vegetables  as  if  for  the 
table;  place  them  in  the  center  of  the  omelet  just  before  folding. 

For  a  plain,  easily-made  omelet,  take  three  tsble-spoons  milk  and 


£:aas.  147 

a  pioch  of  salt  for  eacli  egg;  beat  the  eggs  lightly  for  three  or  four 
minutes,  pour  them  into  a  hot  pan  in  which  a  piece  of  butter  the 
aze  of  a  walnut  has  just  been  melted,  cook  three  or  four  minutes, 
fold  over  and  serve  at  once.  Some  scald  a  little  parsley,  pour  off 
the  water,  chop  it,  and  mix  with  the  omelet  just  before  pouring 
into  the  pan.  Old  cheese,  grated  and  added  to  a  plain  omelet,  is  a 
&yorite  dish.  To  make  a  bread  omelet,  remove  all  crust  from  a 
large  slice  of  light,  white  bread,  moisten  with  sweet  milk,  rub 
through  a  sieve,  add  to  the  yolks,  beat  very  thoroughly,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  adding  beaten  whites  last. 


Boiled  Eggs. 

Put  them  on  in  cold  water,  and  when  it  has  boiled,  the  eggs  will 

be  done,  the  whites  being  soft  and  digestible,  as  they  are  not  when 

put  on  in  boiling  water. 

Baked  Eggs. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a  well-buttered  dish,  put  in  pepper  and 
Bah,  bits  of  butter,  and  three  table-spoons  cream ;  set  in  oven  and 
bake  about  twenty  minutes ;  serve  very  hot. 

Birds'  Nest. 

Boil  eggs  hard,  remove  shells,  surround  with  force-meat ;  fry  or 

bake  them  till  nicely  browned,  cut  in  halves,  and  place  in  the  dish 

with  gravy. 

Curried  Eggs. 

Slice  two  onions  and  fry  in  butter,  add  a  table-spoon  curry-powder 
and  one  pint  good  broth  or  stock,  stew  till  onions  are  quite  tender, 
add  a  cup  of  cream  thickened  with  arrowroot  or  rice  flour,  simmer 
a  few  moments,  then  add  eight  or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices, 
and  beat  them  well,  but  do  not  boil. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Fay^  Washington 

ESCALOPED  EgG3. 

Moisten  bread-crumbs  with  milk  or  meat  broth;  place  a  layer  ot 
this  in  a  well-buttered  dish ;  slice  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  dip 
each  slice  in  a  thick-drawn  butter  sauce  to  which  a  well-beaten  egg 
bas  been  added ;  put  a  layer  of  them  upon  the  crumbs,  then  a 
slight  layer  of  minced  ham,  veal  or  chicken,  then  bread,  etc.,  fin- 


148  EQQ& 

ishing  with  dry,  sifted  bread-crumbs ;  bake  until  M^ell  heated ;  or, 
mix  equal  parts  minced  ham  and  fine  bread-crumbs,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  melted .  butter,  adding  milk  to  moisten  till  quite 
soft ;  half  fill  buttered  gem-pans  or  small  patty-pans  with  this  mix- 
ture, and  break  an  egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each,  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  finely  powdered  crackers  over  all,  set  in 
the  oven  and  bake  eight  minutes ;  serve  immediately. 

Frizzled  Ham  and  Egos. 

Take  bits  of  either  boiled  or  iried  ham,  chop  fine,  and  place  in 

skillet  prepared  with  butter  or  beef  drippings ;  take  four  to  six  well* 

beaten  eggs,  pour  over  han),  and  when  heated  through,  season  well 

with  pepper  and  salt ;  stir  together,  cook  until  done  brown,  and  turn 

over  without  stirring. 

Puff  Omelet. 

Stir  into  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  three  beaten  very 
light,  one  table-spoon  of  flour  mixed  into  a  tea-cup  of  cream  or  milk, 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  melt  a  table-spoon  butter  in  a  pan, 
pour  in  the  mixture  and  set  the  pan  into  a  hot  oven;  when  it 
thickens,  pour  over  it  the  remaining  whites  of  eggs  weU  beaten, 
return  it  to  the  oven  and  let  it  bake  a  delicate  brown.  Slip  off  on 
large  plate,  and  eat  as  soon  as  done. — Mrs.  W.  D.  HaUf  Hawtey^ 
Minn. 

Poached  Eggs. 

Break  and  drop  them  one  at  a  time  in  salted  water,  to  which 
some  add  a  small  lump  of  butter;  some  say  drop  in  when  simmer- 
ing, others  when  boiling,  not  letting  it  boil  again  aftier  patting  in 
the  eggs;  others  have  water  boiling,  salt,  then  place  it  where  it 
will  stop  boiling,  drop  in  eggs,  and  let  simmer  gently  till  done.  Al- 
ways take  great  care  in  keeping  the  yolk  whole.  To  preserve  the 
egg  round,  muffin  rings  may  be  placed  in  the  water,  or  stir  with  a 
spoon  and  drop  in  the  eddy  thus  made,  stirring  till  egg  is  cooked. 
To  serve  them,  toast  squares  of  bread  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  put  a  very  little  melted  butter  upon  each  slice,  place  on  a 
heated  platter,  lay  an  egg  on  each  square,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Some  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  egg.  Serve  with  Wor* 
eester  sauce  if  desired.    Some  poach  eggs  in  milk,  serving  them  in 


EQGS.  149 

eauoe  dishes  with  some  of  the  milk,  and  seasoiuDg  with  pepper  and 
salt 

Pickled  Egos. 

Pint  strong  vinegar,  half  pint  cold  water,  tea-spoon  each  of  cinna^ 
mon,  allspice,  and  mace ;  boil  the  eggs  till  very  hard  and  take  off 
the  shell ;  put  on  the  spices  tied  in  a  white  muslin  bag,  in  the  cold 
water,  boil,  and  if  the  water  wastes  away,  add  enough  so  as  to  leave 
a  half  pint  when  done;  add  tlie  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  egg^^ 
put  in  as  many  eggs  as  the  mixture  will  cover,  and  when  they  are 
used,  the  same  will  do  for  another  lot.  Or,  after  boiling  (hard)  and 
removing  shell,  place  in  jar  of  beet  pickles,  and  the  white  will  be- 
come red ;  cut  in  two  in  serving. 

Scrambled  Egos. 
Li  a  deep  earthen  pie-plate,  warm  sweet  milk,  allowing  two  table- 
spoons to  each  egg  (or  less,  with  a  large  number  of  eggs),  add  a  bit  of 
butter  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  When  nearly 
to  boiling  point  drop  in  the  eggs,  broken  one  at  a  time  in  a  saucer ; 
with  a  spoon  or  thin-bladed  knife  gently  cut  the  ^;g8,  and  scrape 
the  mixture  up  from  the  bottom  of  the  plate  as  it  cooks.  If  it  begins 
to  cook  dry  and  fast  at  the  bottom,  move  the  dish  back  instantly,  for 
success  depends  wholly  on  cooking  gently  and  evenly,  proportions 
beiog  of  secondary  importance.  Take  from  stove  before  it  has  quite 
all  thickened,  and  continue  turning  it  up  from  bottom  of  dish  a 
moment  longer.  If  served  in  another  dish  (it  keeps  warmer  served  in 
same)  have  it  well  heated.  The  mixture  should  jbe  in  large  flakes 
of  mingled  white  and  yellow,  and  as  delicate  as  baked  custard. 
Some  prefer  them  scrambled  without  the  milk. — Mrs,  L.  S.  WUlia* 
ton,  Jamegtown,  N.  Y, 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Cut  in  two,  hard-boiled  eggs,  remove  yolks,  chop,  and  mix  with 
them  chopped  cold  chicken,  lamb,  or  veal  (some  add  a  little  minced 
onion  or  parsley  and  a  few  soaked  bread-crumbs),  season,  and  add 
gravy  or  the  uncooked  yolk  of  an  e^,  form,  fill  in  the  cavities, 
level,  gut  the  two  halves  together,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  bread- 
emmbe,  put  in  wire  egg-basket,  and  dip  in  boiling  lard;  when 
slightly  brown,  serve  with  celery  or  tomato  sauce- 


150  EGGS. 

To  Keej*  Egob. 

Put  a  two  inch  layer  of  salt  In  bottom  of  stone  jar,  then  a  layev 
of  fresh  eggs,  small  end  down;  then  salt,  then  eggs,  and  so  on  till 
jar  is  full,  with  a  layer  of  salt  at  top;  cover  and  put  in  a  cool  place, 
but  not  where  they  will  freeze.  This  is  a  simple,  easy,  and  inex- 
pensive way,  and  has  been  tested  for  years.  Or,  dip  the  eggs  in 
melted  wax,  or  a  weak  solution  of  gum,  or  in  flax-seed  oil,  or  rub 
over  simply  with  lard,  each  of  which  renders  the  shell  impervious 
to  air,  and  pack  away  in  oats  or  bran.  For  one's  own  use  the  latter 
is  a  good  method,  keeping  the  eggs  perfectly,  but  it  discolors  tho 
shells,  and  renders  them  unfit  for  market 

There  has  always  existed  a  great  diflerence  of  opinion  as  to  which 
end  down  eggs  shoidd  be  placed  in  packing  for  winter  use.  W.  H. 
Todd,  the  well  known  Ohio  breeder  of  poultry,  gives  what  seems 
to  be  a  sound  reason  for  packmg  them  larger  end  down.  He  says: 
**  The  air-chamber  is  in  the  larger  end,  and  if  that  is  placed  down 
the  yolk  will  not  break  through  and  touch  the  sheU,  and  thereby 
spoil.  Another  thing,  if  the  air-chamber  is  down,  the  egg  is  not  as 
liable  to  shrink  away.  These  are  two  important  reasons  deducted 
from  experiments,  and  they  materially  aflect  the  keeping  of  eggs." 

Washington  Omelet. 
Let  one  tea-cup  milk  come  to  a  boil,  pour  it  over  one  tea-cup 
bread-crumbs  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Break  six  eggs  into  a 
bowl ;  stir  (not  beat)  till  well  mixed  ;  then  add  the  milk  and  bread  ; 
mix ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  into  a  hot  skillet,  in 
which  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  had  been  melted;  fry  slowly, 
cut  in  squares,  turn,  fry  to  ajdelicate  brown,  and  serve  at  once. — 
Mrs,  D.  Buxton, 

To  Preserve  Eggs. 

Make  a  solution  of  lime  in  rain-water,  and  allow  the  eggs  to  re- 
main in  it  for  several  days.  The  lime  will  form  a  coating  over  the 
shells  and  in  the  pores.  Pack  the  eggs  thus  prepared  in  sawdust 
or  chopped  straw. 


FISH. 


Hah  is  easier  of  digestion  but  less  nutritious  than  meats,  if  sal- 
mon is  excepted,  which  is  extremely  hearty  food,  and  should  be 
eaten  sparingly  by  children  and  those  whose  digestion  is  not  strong. 
Fish  must  be  fresh,  the  fr^her  the  better— those  being  most  perfect 
which  go  straight  from  their  native  element  into  the  hands  of  the 
cook.  The  white  kinds  are  least  nutritious;  and  the  oily,  such  as 
flalmon,  eels,  herrings,  etc.,  most  difficult  of  digestion.  When  fish 
are  in  season,  the  muscles  are  firm  and  they  boil  white  and  curdy; 
when  transparent  and  bluish,  though  sufficiently  bofled,  it  is  a 
sign  that  they  are  not  in  season  or  not  fresh. 

As  soon  as  possible  after  fish  are  caught,  remove  all  scales  (these 
may  be  loosened  by  pouring  on  hot  water),  and  scrape  out  entrails 
aDd  every  particle  of  blood  and  the  white  skin  that  lies  along  the 
backbone,  being  careful  not  to  crush  the  fish  more  than  is  abeo- 
lately  necessary  in  cleaning.  Binse  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  using 
Qoly  what  is  necessary  for  perfect  cleanliness,  drain,  wipe  dry,  and 
place  on  ice  until  ready  to  cook.  To  remove  the  earthy  taste  from 
fresh-water  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night,  or  at 
least  a  few  hours,  before  cooking;  rinse  off,  wipe  dry,  and  to  con> 
pletely  absorb  all  the  moisture,  place  in  a  folded  napkin  a  short 
time.  Fresh-water  fish  should  never  be  soaked  in  water  except 
when  frozen,  when  they  may  be  placed  in  ice-cold  water  to  thaw, 
and  then  cooked  immediately.  Salt  fish  may  be  soaked  over  night 
in  cold  water,  changing  water  once  or  twice  if  very  salt  To 
freshen  fish,  always  place  it  skin-side  up,  so  that  the  salt  may 
have  free  course  to  the  bottom  of  pan,  where  it  naturally  setties. 


152  FJSK 

Fish  should  always  be  well  cooked,  being  both  unpalatable  and 
unwholesome  when  underdone.  For  boiling,  a  fish-kettle  is  almost 
indispensable,  as  it  is  very  difficult  to  remove  a  large  fish  without 
breaking  from  an  ordinary  kettle.  The  fish-kettle  is  an  oblong 
boiler,  in  which  is  suspended  a  perforated  tin  plate,  with  a  handle  at 
each  end,  on  which  the  fish  rests  while  boiling,  and  with  which  it  is 
lifted  out  when  done.  From  this  tin  it  is  eiisily  slipped  off  to  the 
platter  on  which  it  goes  to  the  table.  When  no  fish-kettle  is  at 
hand,  wrap  in  a  cloth,  lay  in  a  circle  on  a  plate,  and  set  in  the 
kettle.  When  done  the  fish  may  be  lifted  out  gently  by  the  cloth 
and  thus  removed  to  the  platter. 

In  fi-ying  by  dipping  into  hot  fat  or  drippings  (or  olive  oil  is  still 
better),  a  wire  basket  in  which  the  fish  is  placed  and  lowered  into 
the  fat,  is  a  great  convenience. 

One  of  the  most  essential  things  in  serving  fish,  is  to  have  every 
thing  hot,  and  quickly  dished,  so  that  all  may  go  to  the  table  at 
once.  Serve  fresh  fish  with  squash  and  green  pease,  salt  fish  with 
beets  and  carrots,  salt  pork  and  potatoes  and  parsnips  with  either. 

In  the  East  there  is  a  great  variety  of  fish  in  winter.  The 
blue  fi{<h  is  excellent  boiled  or  baked  with  a  stuffing  of  bread, 
butter  and  onions.  3ea-bass  are  boiled  with  egg-sauce,  and  gaj> 
nished  with  parsley.  Salmon  are  baked  or  boiled,  and  smelts  are 
cooked  by  dropping  into  boiling  fat.  The  sheap's-head,  which  re- 
quires most  cooking  of  all  fish,  is  always  stuffed  and  baked. 

Nearly  all  the  larger  fresh  fish  are  boiled,  the  medium-sized  are 
baked  or  broiled  and  the  small  are  fried.  The  verj'  large  ones  are 
cut  up  and  sold  in  pieces  of  convenient  size.  The  method  of  cook- 
ing Avhich  retains  most  nourishment  is  broiling,  baking  is  next  best, 
and  boiling  poorest  of  all.  Steaming  is  better  than  boiling.  Li 
baking  or  boiling  place  a  fish  as  nearly  as  possible  in  the  same 
position  it  occupies  in  the  water.  To  retain  it  there,  shape  like  the 
letter  "S,"  pass  a  long  skewer  through  the  head,  body,  and  tail, 
or  tie  a  cord  around  tail,  pass  it  through  body,  and  tie  around  the 
head. 

In  cooking  fish,  care  must  be  taken  Tiot  to  use  the  same  knives  or 
Bpoons  in  the  preparation  of  it  and  other  food,  or  the  latter  will  be 
tainted  with  the  fishy  flavor. 


FISH.  153 

In  boiling  fish,  allow  five  to  ten  minutes  to  the  pound,  according 
to  thickness,  after  putting  into  the  boiling  water.  To  test,  pass  a 
kuiie  along  a  bone,  and  if  done  liie  fish  will  separate  easily.  Be- 
move  the  moment  it  is  done,'  or  it  will  become  '*  woolly"  and  in- 
apid.  The  addition  of  salt  and  vinegar  to  water  in  which  fish  is 
boiled,  seasons  the  fish,  and  at  the  same  time  hardens  the  water, 
%o  that  it  extracts  less  of  the  nutritious  part  of  the  fish.  In  boil- 
iDg  fish  always  plunge  it  into  boiling  water,  and  then  set  where  it 
will  simmer  gently  until  done.  In  case  of  salmon,  put  into  tepid 
water  instead  of  hot,  to  preserve  the  rich  color.  Garnishes  for  fish 
are  parsley,  sliced  l)eeU«,  fried  smelts  (for  turbot),  lobster  coral  (for 
boiled  fish).     For  hints  on  buying  fij^h,  see  **  Marketing." 

Baked  Fish. 
Clean,  rinse,  and  wipe  dry  a  white  fish,  or  any  fish  weighing  three 
or  four  pounds*  rub  the  fish  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill 
with  a  stuflSng  made  like  that  for  poultry,  but  drier ;  sew  it  up 
and  put  in  a  hot  pan,  with  some  drij)pings  and  a  lump  of  butter, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  lay  over  the  fis^h  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt 
pork  or  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  basting  occa- 
abnally. — Jfr«.  A.   Wilson^  Bye,  Neiv  York. 

Baked  Shad. 
Open  and  clean  the  fish,  cut  off  head  (or  not  as  preferred)  cut 
out  the  backl)one  from  the  head  to  within  two  inches  of  the  tail, 
and  fill  with  the  following  mixture:  Soak  stale  bread  in  water, 
squeeze  dry ;  cut  a  large  onion  in  pieces,  fry  in  butter,  chop  fine,  * 
add  the  bread,  two  ounces  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  pars- 
lev  or  sage;  heat  thoroughly,  and  when  taken  from  the  fire, add  two 
yolks  of  well-l)eaten  eggs;  stuff,  and,  when  full,  wjn^  the  fish  sev- 
eral times  with  tape,  place  in  baking-pan,  baste  slightly  with  butter, 
and  cover  the  bottom  of  pan  with  water;  serve  with  the  following 
eauee:  Reduce  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  two  table-spoons  olive-oil,  half  tea-spoon  mustard,  and  pepper 
and  vinegar  to  taste. — Miss  H.  D.  M. 

Baked  Salmox,  Trout  ok  Pickerei.. 
Clean  thoroughly,  wipe  carefully,  and  lay  in  a  dripping-pan  with 
bot  water  enough  to  prevent  scorching  (a  perforated  tin  sheet  or 


154  FISH. 

rack  fitting  loosely  in  the  pan,  or  several  muffin-rings  may  be  used 
to  keep  the  fish  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  the  fish  may  be 
made  to  form  a  circle  by  tying  head  and  tail  together);  bake  slowly, 
basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  When  done  have  ready  a  cup 
of  sweet  cream  into  which  a  few  spoons  of  hot  water  have  been 
poured,  stir  in  two  table-spoons  melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  and  heat  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water ;  add  the  gravy  firom 
the  dish  and  boil  up  once.  Place  the  fish  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour 
over  the  sauce. — Mrs.  Uieo.  Brcnvn,  Cape  Oirardeau,  Mo, 

GoDFiBH  A  -La  Mode. 

TeaKSup  codfish  picked  up  fine,  two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  one 
pint  cream  or  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  half  tea-cup  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  ;  mix  well,  bake  in  baking-dish  from  twenty  to  twenty- 
five  minutes. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Fay^  New  York  (Xty. 

Boiled  Fish. 

To  boll  a  fish,  fill  with  a  rich  dressing  of  rolled  crackers  seasoned 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  sage,  wrap  it  in  a  well-floured  cloth, 
tie  closely  with  twine  or  sew,  and  place  in  well-salted  boiling  water. 
Place  where  it  will  simmer  from  eight  to  ten  minutes  to  the  pound, 
according  to  size  and  thickness  of  fish. — Mrs.  Henry  C.  Farrar, 
Cleveland^  Tenn. 

BoDLED  Codfish. 

Soak  over  night,  put  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  two  or 
three  hours.  Serve  with  drawn  butter,  with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced 
on  it  Codfish  is  also  exceUent  broiled.  After  soaking  sufficiently, 
grease  the  bars  of  the  gridiron,  broil,  and  serve  with  bits  of  butter 
dropped  over  i^  This  is  a  nice  relish  for  tea. — Mrs.  Lewis  Brown. 

Boiled  Fresh  Cod. 

Put  the  fish  in  fish-kettle  (or  tie  up  in  cloth)  in  boiling  water  with 
some  salt  and  scraped  horse-radish,  let  simmer  till  done,  place  a 
folded  napkin  on  a  dish,  turn  fish  upon  it,  and  serve  with  drawii 
butter,  oyster  or  egg-sauce.  When  cold,  chop  fine,  pour  over  it 
drawn  butter  or  egg-sauce,  and  add  pepper  to  taste,  warm  thor- 
oughly, stirring  to  prevent  burning,  make  up  m  rolls  or  any  other 
form,  and  brown  before  the  fire. 


FISK  165 

m 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel. 
After  freshening  wrap  in  a  cloth  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes : 
tt  will  be  almost  done  as  soon  as  the  water  reaches  the  boiling  point; 
remove,  lay  on  it  two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced,  pour  over  it  drawn 
butter,  and  trim  witb  parsley  leaves.    Boiling  salt-fish  hardens  it. 

xX)iL£D  White  Fish. 

Dress  the  fish  nicely,  and  cover  in  fish-kettle  with  boiling  water 
seasoned  well  with  salt;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  simi^er, 
allowing  frt>m  eight  to  ten  minutes  time  to  every  pound;  when  abput 
half  done,  add  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  take  out,  drain,  a^ 
dish  carefully,  pouring  over  it  drawn  butter ;  or  garnish  with  spri 
af  parsley,  and  serve  with  egg-sauce. — Mr».  M.  SmUhy  PUtdmrgh, 

Broiled  White  Fish. 

Clean,  split  down  the  back,  and  let  stand  in  salted  water  for 
leveral  hours ;  wipe  dry,  and  place  on  a  well-greased  gridiron  over 
hot  coals,  sprinkling  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  flesh  side  down  at 
first,  and  when  nicely  browned,  turn  carefully  on  the  other.  Cook 
for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  or  until  nicely  browned  on  both  sides. 
*-ifr«.  H.  Cokoell,  Oiicago,  lU. 

Brook  Trout. 

Wash  and  drain  in  a  colander  a  few  minutes,  split  nearly  to  the 

tail,  flour  nicely,  salt,  and  put  in  pan,  which  should  be  hot  but  not 

burning ;  throw  in  a  little  salt  to  prevent  sticking,  and  do  not  turn 

until  brown  enough  for  the  table.     Trout  are  nice  fried  with  slices 

of  salt  pork. 

Codfish  Balls. 

Soak  codfish  cut  in  pieces  about  an  hour  in  lukewarm  water, 
remove  skin  and  bones,  pick  to  small  pieces,  and  return  to  stove*  in 
cold  water.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  change  ^e  water,  and 
bring  to  a  boil  again.  Have  ready  potatoes  boiled  tender,  well 
mashed,  and  seasoned  with  butter.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  pota- 
toes half  the  quantity  of  codfish  while  both  are  still  hot,  form  into 
flat,  thick  cakes  or  round  balls,  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings,  or  dip 
in  hot  fat,  like  doughnuts.  The  addition  of  a  beaten  eg'g  before 
niaking  into  balls  renders  them  lighter.  Cold  potatoes  may  be  used, 
by  reheating,  adding  a  little  cream  and  butter,  and  mixing  while 
hot— Jfrj.  /.  H,  Shearer, 


156  FISH. 

CAimED  Salmon. 
The  California  canned  salmon  is  nice  served  cold  with  any  of  the 
fishnsauoes.     For  a  breakftuit  dish,  it  may  be  heated,  seasoneii  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  served  on  slices  of  toast,  with  milk  thickened 
with  flour  and  butter  poured  over  it. 

Fish  Chowder. 
The  best  fish  for  chowder  are  haddock  and  striped  bass,  although 
any  kind  of  fresh  fish  may  be  used.  Cut  in  pieces  over  an  inch 
thick  and  two  inches  square ;  place  eight  good-sized  slices  of  salt  pork 
in  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot  and  fry  till  crisp ;  remove  the  pork, 
leaving  the  fat,  chop  fine,  put  in  the  pot  a  layer  of  fish,  a  layer  of 
split  crackers,  and  some  of  the  chopped  pork  with  black  and  red 
pepper  and  chopped  onions,  then  another  layer  of  fish,  another  of 
crackers  and  seasoning,  and  so  on.  Cover  with  water,  and  stew 
slowly  till  the  fish  is  perfectly  done ;  remove  from  the  pot,  put  in 
dish  in  which  you  serve  it  and  keep  hot,  thicken  the  gravy  with 
rolled  cracker  or  flour,  boil  it  up  once  and  pour  over  the  chowder. 
Some  add  a  little  catsup,  port  wine  and  lemon  juice  to  the  gravy 
/  just  before  taking  up,  but  I  think  it  nicer  without  them. — Mrs, 

Woodworthy  Springfield, 

Fried  Fish. 
Clean  thoroughly,  cut  off*  the  head,  and,  if  large,  cut  out  the 
backbone,  and  slice  the  body  crosswise  into  five  or  six  pieces ;  dip 
in  Indian  meal  or  wheat  flour,  or  in  a  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs  (trout  and  perch  should  never  be  dipped  in  meal),  put  into 
a  thick-bottomed  skillet,  skin  side  uppermost,  with  hot  lard  or  drip- 
pings (never  in  butter,  as  it  tiikes  out  the  sweetness  and  gives  a  bad 
color),  fry  slowly,  and  turn  when  a  light  brown.  The  roe  and  the 
backbone,  if  previously  removed,  may  be  cut  up  and  fried  with  the 
other  pieces.  A  better  way  is  to  dredge  the  pieces  in  the  flour, 
brush  with  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
or  drippings  enough  to  completely  cover  them.  If  the  fat  is  very  hot^ 
the  fish  will  not  absorb  it,  and  will  be  delicately  cooked.  When 
brown  on  one  side,  turn  over  in  the  fat  and  brown  the  other,  and 
when  done  let  them  drain.  Slices  of  large  fish  may  be  cooked  ua 
the  same  way.     Serve  with  toinatoe  sauce  or  slices  of  lemon. 


fish:  157 

B^ATY^s  Codfish. 
Soak  pieces  of  codfish  several  hours  in  cold  water,  or  wash  thor- 
oaghly,  heat  in  oven  and  pick  fine,  aad  place  in  skillet  with  cold 
water ;  boil  a  few  minutes,  pour  off  water  and  add  firesh,  boil  again 
Qf  not  very  salt  the  second  boiling  is  not  necessary),  and  drain  ofiP 
as  before;  then  add  plenty  of  sweet  milk,  a  good-sized  piece  of  but- 
ter, and  a  thickening  made  of  a  little  flour  (or  corn  starch)  mixed 
with  oold  milk  until  smooth  like  cream.  Stir  well,  and  just  before 
taking  from  the  fire  drop  in  an  egg,  stir  very  briskly,  and  serve, — 
Mn.  Siden  M,  Stevenson, 

Baked  Herrino. 
8oak  salt  herring  over  night,  roll  in  floul*  and  butter,  and  place 
in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  very  little  water  over  them ;  season  with 
pepper. — Mrs.  E.  J,  Starr. 

Potted  Fresh  Fish. 
Let  the  fish  lie  in  salt  water  for  several  hours ;  then  for  five  pounds 
fish  take  three  ounces  salt,  two  of  ground  black  pepper,  two  of  cin- 
namon, one  of  allspice,  and  a  half  ounce  cloves ;  cut  fish  in  slices, 
and  place  in  the  jar  in  which  it  is  to  be  cooked,  first  a  layer  offish, 
then  the  spices,  flour  and  bits  of  butter  sprinkled  on,  repeating  till 
done.  Fill  the  jar  with  equal  parts  vinegar  and  water,  cover  closely 
with  a  cloth  well  floured  on  top  so  that  no  steam  can  escape,  and 
bake  six  hours.  Let  it  remain  in  jar  until  cold,  cut  in  slices,  and 
flerve  for  tea. — Mrs.  L.  Brown. 

Pan-Fish. 

Place  in  pan  with  heads  together,  and  fill  spaces  with  smaller  fish ; 

when  ready  to  turn,  put  a  plate  over,  drain  off  fat,  invert  pan,  and 

the  fish  will  be  left  unbroken  on  the  plate.     Put  the  lard  back  in 

the  pan,  and  when  hotj  slip  back  the  fish,  and  when  the  other  side  is 

brown,  drain,  turn  on  plate  as  before,  and  slide  them  on  the  platter 

to  go  to  the  table.    This  improves  the  appearance,  if  not  the  flavor. 

The  heads  should  be  left  on,  and  the  shape  preserved  as  ftilly  as 

possible. 

Steamed  Fish. 

Place  tail  of  fish  in  its  mouth  and  secure  it,  lay  on  a  plate,  pour 

over  it  a  half  pint  of  vinegar,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt;  let 


158  FISH. 

m 

stand  an  hour  in  the  refrigerator,  pour  off  the  vinegar,  and  put  ia 
a  steamer  ovier  boiling  water ;  steam  twenty  minutes,  or  longer  i£ 
the  fish  Is  very  large  (when  done  the  meat  easily  parts  from  the 
bone) ;  drain  well,  and  serve  on  a  napkin  garnished  with  curled 
parsley.     Serve  drawn  butter  in  a  boat. — Mrs.  E.  8.  Miller- 

Stewed  Fish. 

Cut  a  fish  across  in  slices  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt;  boil  two  sliced  onions  until  done,  pour  off  water,  seasoa 
with  pepper,  add  two  tea-cups  hot  water  and  a  little  parsley,  and  in 
this  simmer  the  fish  until  thoroughly  done.  Serve  hot  Good 
method  for  any  iresh-water  fish. 

TURBOT. 

Take  a  white  fish,  steam  till  tender,  take  out  bones,  and  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt.  For  dressing,  heat  a  pint  of  milk,  and  thicken 
with  a  quarter  pound  of  flour ;  when  cool,  add  two  eggs  and  a  quarter 
pound  of  butter,  and  season  with  onion  and  parsley  (very  little  of 
each) ;  put  in  the  baking-dish  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  saude, 
till  full,  cover  the  top  with  bread-crumbs,  and  bake  half  an  hour.— 
Mn,  Robert  A.  lAggett^  Detroit^ 

To  Fry  Eels. 

Skin  them,  wash  well,  iseason  with  pepper  and  salt,  roll  each 

piece  in  fine  Indian  meal,  fry  in  boUing  lard ;  or  egg  them,  and  roll 

in  cracker-crumbs  and  fry.    For  sauce,  use  melted  butter  sharpeced 

with  lemon-juice. 

To  Pickle  Book. 

Cook  a  rock-fish  (cut  in  pieces)  in  water  enough  to  cover.  Put 
in  a  handful  of  salt,  a  litUe  white  pepper,  one  table-spoon  of  all- 
spice, a  few  cloves  and  mace.  When  fish  is  near  done,  add  a  quart 
of  vinegar.     In  putting  away,  cover  with  liquor. — Mrs,  J".  8.  W. 

Tickled  Salmon. 

Soak  salmon  twenty-four  hours,  changing  water  several  times. 
Put  it  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  vinegar ;  when  done  and  cold, 
boil  your  vinegar  with  spice  and  pour  over  fish.-  -Mrs.  A,  P.,  Vvr- 
ginia. 


FRUITS. 


The  arrangement  of  fresh  fruits  for  the  table  affords  play  for  the 
most  cultivated  taste  and  not  a  little  real  inventive  genius.  Melons, 
oranges,  and  indeed  all  kind  of  fruits,  are  appropriate  breakfast 
dishes;  and  a  raised  oenter-piece  of  mixed  fruits  furnishes  a  delicious 
dessert,  and  is  an  indispensable  ornament  to  an  elegant  dinner-table. 
Mek>cs  should  be  kept  on  ice,  so  as  to  be  thoroughly  chilled  when 
served.  Clip  the  ends  of  water-melons,  cut  them  across  in  halves, 
set  up  on  the  clipped  ends  on  a  platter,  and  serve  the  pulp  only, 
removing  it  with  a  spoon ;  or,  cut  across  in  slices,  and  serve  with 
rind.  Nutmeg  melons  should  be  set  on  the  blossom  end,  and  cut  in 
KvenJ  equal  pieces  from  the  stem  downward,  leaving  each  alternate 
pieoe  still  attached ;  the  others  may  then  be  loosened,  and  the  seeds 
removed,  when  the  melon  is  ready  to  servo-  Fruit  should  be  cai^- 
Ailly  selected.  Havana  and  Florida  oranges  are  the  best,  but  do  not 
l^eep  well,  and  on  the  whole,  the  Messina  are  preferable.  A  rough 
yeflow  skin  covers  the  sweetest  oranges,  the  smooth  being  more  juicy 
Hnd  acid ;  a  greenish  tinge  indicates  that  they  were  picked  unripe. 
The  Messina  lemons,  **  November  cut,"  are  the  best,  and  come  into 
market  in  the  spring.  Freestone  peaches  with  yellow  meat  are  the 
bmdsomest,  but  not  always  the  sweetest.  California  pears  take  the 
lead  for  flavor,  the  Bartlett  being  the  best.  The  best  winter  pear 
is  the  "  Winter  Nellis."  The  "  Pound  "  pear  is  the  largest,  but  is 
good  only  for  cooking.  Fine-grained  pears  are  best  for  eating.  A 
PTramid  of  grapes  made  up  of  Malagas,  Dela wares,  and  Concords, 
makes  a  showy  center-piece  and  a  delicious  dessert.  The  Malaga 
leads  all  foreign  grapes,  and  comes  packed  in  cork-dust,  which  is  a 
Aon-oonductor  of  heat  and  absorbent  of  moisture,  and  so  is  always  in 

(169) 


160    ,  FRUITS. 

good  condition.  Of  native  grapes,  the  Delaware  keeps  longest.  la 
pine-apples  the  "Strawberry"  is  best,  while  the  "Sugar-Loaf 
ranks  next,  but  tliey  are  so  perishable  that  to  keep  even  for  a  few 
days  they  must  be  cooked.  When  served  fresh  they  should  be  cut 
in  small  squares  and  sprinkled  with  sugar.  Buy  cocoa-nuts  cautiously 
in  summer,  heat  being  likely  to  sour  th^  milk.  In  almonds,  the 
Princess  is  the  best  variety  to  buy  in  the  shell ;  of  the  shelled,  the 
"  Jordan  "  is  the  finest,  though  the  "  Sicily  "  is  good.  For  cake  or 
CDnfecti(mery ,  the  shelled  are  most  economical.  In  raisins,  the  *  *  Seed- 
less "rank  first  for  puddings  and  fine  cakes,  but  the  "Valencia* 
are  cheaper,  and  more  commonly  used;  for  table  use,  loose  "Mus- 
catels" and  layer  raisins  (of  which  the  "London  Layer"  is  the 
choicest  brand)  take  the  preference.  In  melons,  every  section  has 
its  favorite  varieties,  any  of  which  make  a  wholesome  and  luscious 
dessert  dish.  Sliced  fruits  or  berries  are  more  attractive  and  pala- 
table sprinkled  with  sugar  about  an  hour  before  serving,  and  then 
with  pounded  ice  just  before  sending  to  the  table.  An  apple-corer, 
a  cheap  tin  tube,  made  by  any  tinner,  is  indispensable  in  preparing 
apples  for  cooking.  They  are  made  in  two  sizes,  one  for  crab-apples 
and  the  other  for  larger  varieties. 

If  the  market  is  depended  upon  select  the  freshest  berries;  and 
sometimes  it  will  be  found  that  the  largest  are  not  the  sweetest.  If 
clean,  and  not  gritty,  do  not  wash  them,  but  pick  over  carefully, 
place  first  a  layer  of  berries  then  sprinkle  sugar,  and  so  on;  set 
away  in  a  cool  place,  and  just  before  serving  sprinkle  with  pounded 
ice.  If  they  must  be  washed,  take  a  dish  of  cold,  soft  water,  pom 
a  few  in,  and  with  the  hand  press  them  down  a  few  times,  until 
they  look  clean,  then  hull  them.  Repeat  the  process  till  all  are 
hulled,  sugar  and  prepare  as  above.  Never  drain  in  a  colander.  The 
French  serve  large  fine  strawberries  without  being  hulled.  Pulver- 
ized sugar  is  passed,  the  strawberry  is  taken  by  the  hull  with  the 
thumb  and  finger,  dipped  into  the  sugar,  and  eaten.  When  berries 
are  left,  scald  for  a  few  minutes ;  too  much  cookmg  spoils  the  flavor. 
Some  think  many  of  the  sour  berries  are  improved  by  digkUy  cook- 
ing them  with  a  little  sugar  before  serving.  If  a  part  of  the  berries 
are  badly  bruised,  gritty,  etc.  (but  not  sour  or  bitter),  scald,  and 
drain  them  through  a  fine  sieve  without  pressing  them.     Sweeten 


FRUITS,  161 

tihe  Jnioe  and  serve  as  a  dressbg  for  puddings,  short-cakes,  etc.,  oi 
can  for  winter  use. 


Ambbobia,  or  Fruit  Salad. 

Six  sweet  oranges  peeled  and  sliced  (seeds  and  as  much  of  the 
core  as  poesible  taken  out),  one  pine-apple  peeled  and  sliced  (the 
canned  is  equally  good),  and  one  large  cocoaruut  grated;  alter> 
nate  the  layers  of  orange  and  pine-apple  with  grated  cocoa-nut,  and 
sprinkle  pulverized  sugar  over  each  layer.  Or,  use  six  oranges,  six 
lemons,  ajod  two  cocoa-nuts,  or  only  oranges  and  cocoa-nuts,  pre- 
pared as  above.     Other  fruit  salads  can  be  similarly  made. 

Apple  Compote. 
Pare  the  apples,  cut  the  core  out,  leaving  them  whole.  Make  a 
syrup,  allowing  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit; 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  the  firuit  and  let  cook  until  clear  but 
remains  whole.  Remove  the  fruit  to  a  glass  bowl,  and  dissolve  one- 
third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  half  tea-cup  of  hot  water,  and  stir 
briskly  into  the  syrup,  first  taking  off  the  fire.  Then  strain  it  over 
the  apples,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  cool.  When  cold  heap  whipped 
cream  over  it.  Some  add  sliced  lemons  to  the  syrup,  and  serve 
with  a  slice  of  the  lemon  on  each  apple. — Mrs,  A.  H,  Bhea,  NoA' 

vWSf  Tenn. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Pare,  core  and  cut  in  quarters  apples  that  do  not  cut  to  pieces 

easily,  and  put  on  to  stew  in  cold  water  with  plenty  of  sugar. 

Cover  close  and  stew  an  hour  or  more.     The  addition  of  the  sugar 

at  first  preserves  the  pieces  whole.     If  they  are  preferred  finely 

mashed,  add  sugar  after  they  are  done. 

Baked  Apples. 

Cut  out  the  blossoms  and  stems  of  tart  appies,  in  the  stem  end 

fxit  some  sugar ;  bake  till  soft ;  serve  either  warm  or  cold.     Sweet 

apples  require  a  longer  time  for  baking  than  sour,  and  are  better 

for  adding  a  little  water  in  pan  when  placed  to  bake.    They  require 

several  hours,  and  when  done  are  of  a  rich,  dark  brown  color.     If 

taken  out  too  soon  they  are  insipid.     For  an  extra  nice  dish,  pare 

and  core  tart  apples,  place  in  pan,  put  butter  and  sugar  in  cavity, 
11 


162  FRUITS. 

and  sprinkle  cinnamon  over  them,  and  serve  warm  with  cream  or 
milk.  Or,  pare  and  quarter  tart  apples,  put  a  layer  in  earthen  bak- 
ing-dish, add  lumps  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  then  a 
layer  of  apples,  etc.,  till  dish  is  full;  bake  till  soft.  Or,  quarter 
and  core  sour  apples  without  paring,  put  in  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  bits  of  butter,  add  a  little  water,  and  bake  until 
tender.  The  proportion  of  sugar  is  a  gill,  and  butter  half-size  of 
i^n  egg,  to  three  pints  of  apples,  and  a  gill  and  a  half  of  water. 

Ig£d  Apples. 
Pare  and  core  one  dozen  large  apples,  fill  with  sugar  and  a  little 
butter  and  nutmeg;  bake  until  nearly  done,  let  cool,  and  remove  to 
another  plate,  if  it  can  be  done  without  breaking  them  (if  not,  pouf 
ofT  the  juice).  Ice  tops  and  sides  with  caking-ice,  and  brown  ligkUy; 
serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  R.  C.  Canon,  Harrisburg. 

Fried  Apples. 
Quarter  and  core  apples  without  paring;  prepare  firying-pan  by 
heating  it  and  putting  in  beef-drippings,  lay  the  apples  in  the  pan, 
skin  side  down,  sprinkle  with  a  little  brown  sugar,  and  when  nearly 
done,  turn  and  brown  thoroughly.  Or,  cut  in  slices  across  the  core, 
and  fry  like  pancakes,  turnmg  when  brown;  serve  with  granulated 
sugar  sprinkled  over  them. 

Black  Caps. 
Pare  and  core  tart  apples  with  apple-corer,  fill  the  center  with 
sugar,  stick  four  cloves  in  the  top  of  each,  and  bake  in  deep  pie- 
plates,  with  a  littie  water. 

Fried  Bananas. 
Peel  and  slice  lengthwise,  fry  in  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
aerve.     Thus  prepared  they  make  a  nice  dessert    The  bananas 

must  be  ripe. 

Iced  Currants. 

Wash  and  drain  dry,  large  bunches  of  ripe  currants,  dip  into 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,  put  on  sieve  so  they  will  not  touch  each 
other,  sift  powdered  sugar  thickly  over  them,  and  put  in  a  warm 
place  till  dry.     Cherries  and  grapes  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Gooseberry  Fool. 

Stew  gooseberries  until  soft,  add  sugar,  and  press  through  a  co- 
lander (earthen  is  best),  then  make  a  boiled  custard,  or  sweeteD 


FRUITS  168 

enough  rich  cream  (about  one  gill  to  each  quart)^  and  stir  carefidly 
into  the  gooeeberries  just  before  sending  to  table. — Mrs.  L.  8.  W. 

Ohanqes  in  Jelly. 
Boil  the  smallestrsized  oranges  in  water  until  a  straw  will  easily 
penetrate  them,  clarify  half  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of 
fiiiit,  cut  in  halves  or  quarters,  and  put  them  to  the  syrup,  set  over 
a  slow  fire  until  the  fruit  is  clear;  then  stir  into  it  an  ounce  or  more 
of  dissolved  isinglass,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  short  time  longer.  Be- 
Fore  taking  it  up  try  the  jelly,  and  if  it  is  not  thick  enough  add 
more  isinglass,  first  taking  out  the  oranges  into  a  deep  glass  dish, 
and  then  straining  the  jelly  over  them.     Lemons  may  be  prepared 

m  the  same  manner. 

Orange  Pyramid. 

Gut  the  peel  in  six  or  eight  equal  pieces,  making  the  incisions 
from  the  stem  downward ;  peel  each  piece  down  about  half  way, 
and  bend  it  sharply  to  the  right,  leaving  the  peeled  orange  appar- 
ently in  a  cup,  from  which  it  is  removed  without  much  difficulty. 
Pile  the  oranges  so  prepared  in  a  pyramid  on  a  high  fruitrdish,  and 
you  have  an  elegant  center-piece. 

Baked  Pears. 
Bake  washed,  unpeeled  pears  in  pan  with  only  a  tea-spoon  or 
two  of  water ;  sprinkle  with  the  sugar,  and  serve  with  their  own 

syrup. 

Baked  Pie-plant. 

Cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long,  put  in  baking-dish  in  layers 

with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  cover  closely  and  bake. 

Baked  Peaches. 
Wash  peaches  which  are  nearly  or  quite  ripe,  place  in  a  deep 
dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover  and  bake  until  tender. 

Stewed  Pie-plant. 
Make  a  rich  syrup  by  adding  sugar  to  water  in  which  long  strips 
of  orange  peel  have  been  boiled  until  tender,  lay  into  it  a  single 
layer  of  pieces  of  pie-plant  three  inches  long,  and  stew  gently  until 
clear.  When  done  remove  and  cook  another  layer.  This  makes  a 
handsome  dessert-dish,  ornamented  with  puff-paste  cut  in  fimcifu) 
•hapra.     Use  one  orange  to  two  and  a  half  pounds  pie-plant 


164  FRUITS, 

Peach  Pyramid. 

Cut  a  dozen  peaches  in  halves,  peel  and  take  out  stones,  crack 
half  the  seeds,  and  blanch  the  kernels ;  make  a  clear  boiling  syrup 
of  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  into  it  put  the  peaches  and  ker- 
nels ;  boil  very  gently  for  ten  minutes,  take  out  half  the  peaches, 
boil  the  rest  for  ten  minutes  longer,  and  take  out  all  the  peaches 
and  kernels ;  mix  with  the  syrup  left  in  the  kettle  the  strained  juice 
of  three  lemons,  and  an  oimce  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  little  water 
and  strained ;  boil  up  once,  fill  a  mold  half  full  of  this  syrup  or 
jelly,  let  stand  until  ''set/'  add  part  of  the  peaches  and  a  little 
more  jelly,  and  when  this  is  ''  set,"  add  the  rest  of  the  peaches,  and 
fill  up  the  mold  with  jelly.  This  makes  an  elegant  ornament. — 
ifi88  E.  Orissa  DcHheaTy  OincinnaU. 

Frozen  Peaches. 
Pare  and  divide  large,  fresh,  ripe  and  juicy  peaches,  sprinkle 
over  them  granulated  sugar,  freeze  them  like  ice-cream  for  an  hour; 
remove  them  just  before  serving,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  more 
sugar.  Canned  peaches  and  all  kinds  of  berries  may  be  prepared 
in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Wilcox, 

To  Keep  Pine-apples. 
Pare  and  cut  out  the  eyes  of  a  ripe  pine-apple,  strip  all  the  pulp 
from  the  core  with  a  silver  fork ;  to  a  pint  of  this  add  a  pound  of 
granulated  sugar,  stir  occasionally  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  put  in 
glass  fruit-cans,  and  turn  down  the  covers  as  closely  as  possible. 
This  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Baked  Quinces. 
Wash  and  core  ripe  quinces,  fill  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  bakings 
dish  with  a  little  water. 

Compote  op  Pears. 

Pare  and  quarter  eight  nice  pears,  and  put  in  a  porcelain  sauo^ 
pan  with  water  enough  to  cook ;  put  on  lid,  and  cook  fruit  until 
tender,  then  remove  to  a  platter ;  make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  and  a  pint  of  pear-water ;  add  juice  of  two  lemons  and  the 
grated  rind  of  one,  and  put  in  the  pears ;  cook  them  for  a  few  min- 
utes in  this  syrup,  then  remove  to  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  bft 


FRUITS.  166 

molded.  Soak  an  ounce  of  gelatine  for  an  hour  or  two  in  enough 
Mrater  to  cover  it,  and  stir  it  into  the  hot  syrup ;  let  boil  up  once 
and  turn  it  over  fruit  through  a  strainer.  The  mold  should  be 
dipped  in  cold  water  before  putting  in  firuit.  When  cold,  turn 
jelly  into  a  dish  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  around  the  base^  or 
pour  sweet  cream  over  it  in  saucers. 

Mock  Strawberries. 
Cut  ripe  peaches  and  choice  well-flavored  apples,  in  proportion 
of  three  peaches  to  one  apple,  into  quarters  about  the  size  of  a 
strawberry,  place  in  alternate  layers,  sprinkle  the  top  thickly  with 
sugar,  and  add  pounded  ice;  let  stand  about  two  hours,  mix 
peaches  and  apples  thoroughly,  let  stand  an  hour  longer,  and  serve. 
— 1&S&  C.  B,,  Newburyportf  Mass. 

Oranged  Strawberries. 
Place  a  layer  of  strawberries  in  a  deep  dish ;  cover  the  same 
thickly  with  pulverized  sugar ;  then  a  layer  of  berries,  and  so  on, 
until  all  are  used.  Pour  over  them  orange  juice,  in  the  proportion 
of  three  oranges  to  a  quart  of  berries.  Let  stand  for  an  hour,  and 
just  before  serving  sprinkle  with  pounded  ice.  Some  use  claret, 
grape  or  currant  wine  instead  of  orange  juice. 

Strawberries  with  Whipped  Cream. 
Prepare  in  layers  as  above,  cover  with  one  pint  of  cream,  whitee 
of  three  eggs  and  a  tea-cup  of  powdered  sugar,  whipped  together 
and  flavored  with  strawberry  juice. 

Snow  Flakes. 
Grate  a  large  cocoa-nut  into  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  with  cream, 
preserves,  jeUies  or  jams. 

Peach  Meringue. 
Put  on  to  boil  a  quart  of  milk,  omitting  half  a  cup  with  which 
to  moisten  two  table-spoons  of  com  starch ;  when  the  milk  boils, 
add  the  moistened  com  starch ;  stir  constantly  till  thick,  then  re- 
move from  the  fire ;  add  one  table-spoon  butter,  and  allow  the  mix- 
ture to  cool ;  then  beat  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  till  the  mixture 
seems  light  and  creamy ;  add  half  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Cover 
the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  baking-dish  with  two  or  three  layers 


166  FRUITS.  * 

of  rich,  juicy  peaches,  pared,  halved  and  stoned;  sprinkle  over 
three  table-spoons  powdered  sugar;  pour  over  them  the  custard 
carefully,  and  bake  twenty  minutes,  then  spread  with  the  light- 
beaten  whites,  well  sweetened,  and  return  to  the  oven  till  a  light 
brcwn.  To  l)e  eaten  warm  with  a  rich  sauce,  or  cold  with  sweet- 
ened rream. 

Peach  Custard. 

Equal  parts  rich  sliced  peaches,  green  com  pulp  and  water. 
Sweeten  to  <he  taste,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Raspberry  Float. 

Crush  a  pint  of  very  ripe  red  raspberries  with  a  gill  of  sugar; 
beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  gradually  a  gill 
of  powdered  sugar ;  press  the  raspberries  through  a  fine  strainer  to 
avoid  the  seeds,  and  by  degrees  beat  in  the  juice  with  the  egg  and 
sugar  until  so  stiif  fhat  it  stands  in  peaks. 

Flortoa  Grape  Fruit. 

The  fruit  stores  display  a  new  clear-skinned  lemon-colored  firuity 
about  three  times  as  large  as  an  orange,  and  bearing  a  general 
resemblance  to  that  fruit  Its  flavor  is  sub-acid,  but  its  juicy  pulp 
is  inclosed  in  a  tough  white  membrane  of  intensely  bitter  taste ; 
when  this  membrane  is  removed,  the  fruit  is  delicious.  To  prepare 
it  for  the  table,  cut  the  skin  in  sections  and  peel  it  off;  separate  the 
sections  as  you  would  those  of  an  orange,  and  holding  each  one  by 
the  ends,  break  it  open  from  the  center,  disclosing  the  pulp;  tear 
this  out  of  the  bitter  white  membrane,  which  covers  the  sections^ 
carefnlly  removing  every  part  of  it;  k^ep  the  pulp  as  unbroken  as 
possible,  and  put  it  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  plentiful  sprinkling 
of  fine  sugar.  Let  it  stand  three  or  four  hours,  or  over  night,  and 
tiieu  use  the  fruit.  It  is  refreshing  and  wholesome^  especially  for 
a  bilious  temperament. 

Fig  Sauce. 

Figs  are  very  fine  for  dessert,  stewed  slowly  until  soft.  Season  with 
two  ounces  loaf-sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  cook  two  hours;  add  a 
gla"53  port  or  other  wine,  also  lemon-juice  if  liked.  Can  be  seasoned 
witli  a  few  bitter  almonds  or  orange-peel. — A  Georgia  hovsekeeper. 


GAME. 


Of  game  birds  the  woodcock  outranks  all  in  delicate  tendemeat 
«nd  sweet  flavor.  The  thigh  is  especially  deemed  a  choice  tidbit. 
The  leg  is  the  finest  part  of  the  ^  snipe,  but  generally  the  breast  is 
the  most  juicy  and  nutritious  part  of  birds. 

White-meated  game  should  be  cooked  to  well-done ;  dark-meated 
game  rare.  The  flesh  of  wild  animals  is  harder  and  more  solid, 
and  has  a  less  proportion  of  fat  and  juices  to  the  lean,  and  is  there- 
fore less  easy  of  mastication  when  eaten  within  a  day,  and  more 
nntritiouB,  and  the  flavor  more  concentrated.  Their  decided  flavor 
recommends  them  to  invalids  or  others  who  are  satiated  with  ordi- 
oary  food.  Keeping  game  renders  it  more  tender,  and  brings  out 
its  flavor.  When  birds  have  become  tainted,  pick  clean  as  soon  as 
pOBBible  and  immerse  in  new  milk  for  twenty-four  hours,  when  they 
will  be  quite  sweet  and  fit  for  cooking. 

Birds  should  be  carefully  dry-picked  (removing  all  feathers  that 
oome  off  easily),  plunged  in  n  pan  of  boiling  water  and  skinned, 
drawn,  wiped  clean,  and  all  shot  removed,  Grame  should  not  be 
washed,  unless  absolutelv  necessarv  for  cleanliness.  With  care  in 
dressing,  wiping  will  render  them  perfectly  clean.  If  necessary  to 
wash,  do  it  quickly  and  use  as  little  water  as  possible.  The  more 
plainly  all  kinds  of  game  are  cooked,  the  better  they  retain  their 
fine  flavor.  They  require  a  brisker  fire  than  poultry,  but  take  less 
time  to  cook.  Their  color,  when  done,  should  be  a  fine  yellowish 
brown.     Serve  on  toast. 

Broiling  is  a  favorite  method  of  cooking  game,  and  all  birds  are 
exceedingly  nice  roasted.     To  broil,  split  down  the  back,  open  and 

(IffT) 


168  .  OAMR 

flatten  the  breast  by  oovering  with  a  doth  and  pounding,  ^euson 
with  pepper,  and  lay  the  inside  first  upon  the  gridiron ;  turn  as 
soon  as  browned,  and  when  almost  done  take  off,  place  on  a  pla^ 
ter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  return  to  the  gridiron..  When  done, 
place  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  both  sides  well,  and  serve  at  once.  The 
time  required  is  usually  about  twenty  minutes. 

To  roast,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  a  lump  of  butter 
inside,  truss,  skewer,  and  place  in  oven.  The  flavor  is  best  pre* 
served  without  stuffing,  but  a  plain  bread-dressing,  with  a  piece  of 
salt  pork  or  ham  skewered  on  the  breast,  is  very  nice.  A  delicate 
way  of  dressing  is  to  place  an  oyster  dipped  in  the  well-beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg  or  in  melted  butter,  and  then  rolled  in  bread  crumbs,  in- 
side each  bird.  Allow  thirty  minutes  to  roast  or  longer  if  stufl^ 
Wild  ducks,  pheasants  and  grouse  are  always  best  roasted. 

To  lard  game,  cut  fat  salt  pork  into  thin,  narrow  strips,  thread  a 
larding-needle  with  one  of  the  strips,  run  the  needle  under  the  skin 
and  a  little  of  the  flesh  of  the  bird,  and  draw  the  pork  half  way 
through,  so  that  the  ends  of  the  strips  exposed  will  be  of  equal 
length.  The  strips  should  be  about  one  inch  apart  The  larding 
interferes  with  the  natural  flavor  of  the  bird,  hut  renders  it  more 
juicy.     Many  prefer  tying  a  piece  of  bacon  on  the  breast  instead. 

Pigeons  should  be  cooked  a  long  time,  as  they  are  usually  quite 
lean  and  tough,  and  they  are  better  to  lie  in  salt  water  half  an  hour, 
or  to  be  parboiled  in  it  for  a  few  minutes.  They  are  nice  roasted 
or  made  into  a  pie. 

If  the  "  wild  flavor"  of  the  larger  birds,  such  as  pheasants,  prairie 
chickens,  etc.,  is  disliked,  they  may  be  soaked  over  night  in  salt 
water,  or  two  or  three  hours  in  soda  and  water,  or  parboiled  with 
an  onion  or  two  in  the  water,  and  then  cooked  as  desired.  The 
:;c)arser  kinds  of  game,  such  as  geese,  ducks,  etc.,  may  lie  in  salt 
water  for  several  hours,  or  be  parboiled  in  it  with  an  onion  inside 
each  to  absorb  the  rank  flavor,  and  afterwards  thoroughly  rinsed 
in  clear  water,  stuffed  and  roasted ;  or  pare  a  fresh  lemon  without 
breaking  the  thin,  white,  inside  skin,  put  inside  the  game  for  a  day 
or  two,  renewing  the  lemon  every  twelve  hours.  This  will  absorb 
unpleasant  flavors  from  almost  all  meat  and  game.  Some  lay  slices 
of  onion  over  game  while  cooking,  and  remove  before  serving.     In 


GAME.  169 

p»!paring  txh  wild  ducks  for  invalids,  it  is  a  good  plau  to  remove 
the  skioy  and  keep  a  day  or  two  before  cooking.  Squirrels  should 
be  carefully  bkinned  and  laid  in  salt  water  a  short  time  before  cook* 
mg;  if  old,  parboil.  They  are  delicious  broiled,  and  are  excellent 
cooked  in  any  way  with  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Venison,  as  in  the 
days  of  good  old  Isaac,  is  still  justly  considered  a  "  savoury  dish.* 
The  haunch,  neck,  shoulder  and  saddle  should  be  roasted ;  roast  or 
broil  the  breast,  and  fry  or  broil  the  steaks  with  slices  of  salt  pork. 
Venison  requires  more  time  for  cooking  than  beefsteak.  The  hams 
are  excellent  pickled,  smoked  and  dried,  but  they  will  not  keep  so 
k>ng  as  other  smoked  meats. 

The  garnishes  for  game  are  fresh  or  preserved  barberries,  currant 
jelly,  sliced  oranges,  and  apple  sauce. 


Broiled  Pheasant  or  Prairie  Chicken. 
Scald  and  skin,  cut  oif  the  breast  and  cut  the  re»t  up  in  joints, 
being  careful  to  remove  all  shot ;  put  in  hot  water  all  except  the 
breast  (which  will  be  tender  enough  without  parboiling),  and  boil 
UQtil  it  can  be  pierced  with  fork,  take  out,  rub  over  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  and  broil  with  breast  over  brisk  fire ;  place  a  lump  of 
batter  on  each  piece,  and  set  ail  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes.   For 

breakfast,  serve  on  fried  mush ;  for  dinner  on  toast  with  a  bit 
of  current  jelly  over  each  piece.  It  may  be  served  with  toast 
cat  in  pieces  about  two  niches  square,  over  which  pour  gravy  made 
by  thickening  the  liquor  in  which  the  birds  were  boiled,  with  a 
litde  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together  and  stirred  in  while  boiling. 
Squirrels  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. — Mrs.  W,   W.  Woods. 

Broiled  Quail. 
Split  through  the  back  and  broil  over  a  hot  fire,  basting  fre- 
quently with  butter.  When  done  place  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  piece, 
and  set  in  oven  a  ffew  moments  to  brown.  Serve  on  pieces  of  toast 
with  currant  jelly.  Plovers  are  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Pigeons 
thould  be  first  parboiled  and  then  broiled. 

Jugged  Hare. 
Skin,  wipe  with  a  towel  dipped  in  boiling  water,  to  remove  the 
loose  hairs,  dry  thoroughly  and  cut  in  pieces,  strew  with  pepper  and 


170  QAMK 

gait)  fry  brown,  seafion  with  two  anchovies,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  nutmeg,  mace,  cloves,  and  grated  lemon-peel. 
Put  a  layer  of  the  p^'eces  with  the  seasoning  into  a  wide-mouthed 
jug  or  a  jar,  then  a  layer  of  bacon  sliced  very  thin,  and  so  on  till 
all  is  used ;  add  a  scant  half  pint  of  water,  cover  the  jug  close  and 
put  in  cold  water,  let  boil  three  or  four  hours,  according  to  the  age 
of  the  hare;  take  the  jug  out  of  kettle,  pick  out  the  unmelted 
bacon  and  make  a  gravy  of  a  little  butter  and  flour  with  a  little 
catsup.  A  tea-spoon  of  lemon-peel  will  heighten  the  flavor. — Mrs. 
Louise  M.  Lincoln. 

Quail  on  Toast. 

Dry-pick  them,  singe  them  with  paper,  cut  off  heads,  and  legs  at 
first  joint,  draw,  split  down  the  back,  soak  in  salt  and  water  for 
five  or  ten  minutes,  drain  and  dry  with  a  doth,  lard  them  with 
bacon  or  butter,  and  rub  salt  over  them,  place  on  broiler  and  turn 
often,  dipping  two  or  three  times  into  melted  butter ;  broil  about 
twenty  minutes.  Have  ready  as  many  slices  of  buttered  toast  as 
there  are  birds,  and  serve  a  bird,  breast  upward,  on  each  slice. 
Cook  squabs  or  any  small,  tender  bird  by  this  recipe. 

Pabtridoe  Pie. 

Parboil  six  partridges;  line  a  deep  dish  or  baking-pan  with  a 
rich  biscuit  crust,  put  in  partridges,  one  dozen  oysters,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  fill  up  with 
water  in  which  birds  were  parboiled,  cover  with  paste,  and  bake 
half  an  hour. — Mrs.  Hal  Johnson,  JacksonviUe,  Fla, 

Boasted  Pabtbidges. 

Clean  and  truss  birds,  put  on  spit  or  in  oven  to  roast;  baste  with 
a  little  butter  and  hot  water  until  a  gravy  is  made,  then  baste  with 
this ;  use  one  tearspoon  of  butter  to  each  bird.  They  must  not  be 
stuffed,  as  that  destroys  flavor.  Boast  thirty  minutes. '  There  is  a 
good  deal  of  conAision  regarding  the  name  of  these  delicious  game 
birds,  the  quail  being  called  a  partridge  in  many  localities.  The  part- 
ridge (ru£^  grouse)  is  a  much  larger  bird  than  the  quail,  much 
shyer,  and  not  often  found  in  large  coveys.  Both  are  very  delicious 
and  always  bring  high  prices  in  the  markets. — Mrs,  Mogor  Maaon^ 
AvyvuAa^  Go. 


GAME,  171 

BoABT  Haunch  op  Venison. 

Wash  in  warm  water  and  dry  well  with  a  cloth,  butter  a  sheet  of 
white  paper  and  put  over  the  fat,  lay  in  a  deep  baking-dish  with 
a  very  little  boiling  water,  cover  with  a  close-fitting  lid  or  with  a 
coarse  paste  one-half  inch  thick.  If  the  latter  is  used,  a  thickness  or 
two  of  coarse  paper  should  be  laid  over  the  paste.  Cook  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven  for  from  three  to  four  hours,  according  to  the  size 
of  the  haunch,  and  about  twenty  minutes  before  nt  is  done  quicken 
the  fire,  remove  the  paste  and  paper  or  dish-cover,  dredge  the  joint 
with  flour  and  baste  well  with  butter  until  it  is  nicely  fi*othed  and  of 
a  dolicate  brown  color ;  garnish  the  knuckle-bone  with  a  frill  of  white 
paper,  and  serve  with  a  gravy  made  from  its  own  dripping,  having 
first  removed  the  h.t  Have  the  dishes  on  which  the  venison  is 
served  and  the  plates  very  hot     Always  serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Roast  Goose. 

The  goose  should  not  be  more  than  eight  months  old,  and  the 
&tter  the  more  tender  and  juicy  the  meat.  A  '*  green"  goose  (four 
months  old)  is  the  choicest.  Kill  at  least  twenty-four  hours  before 
eooking ;  cut  the  neck  close  to  the  back,  beat  the  breast-bone  flat 
with  a  rolling-pin,  tie  the  wings  and  legs  securely,  and  stuff*  with  the 
following  mixture :  three  pints  bread  crumbs,  six  ounces  butter  or 
part  butter  and  part  salt  pork,  two  choppea  onions,  one  tea-spoon 
each  of  sage,  black  pepper  and  salt.  Do  not  stuff  very  full,  and 
stitch  openings  firmly  together  to  keep  flavor  in  and  fat  out  If  the 
goose  is  not  fat,  lard  it  with  salt  pork,  or  tie  a  slice  on  the  breast 
Place  in  a  baking-pan  with  a  little  water,  and  baste  frequently  with 
salt  and  water  (some  add  onion  and  some  vinegar),  turning  often  so 
that  the  sides  and  back  may  all  be  nicely  browned.  When  nearly 
done  baste  with  butter  and  a  little  flour.  Bake  two  hours,  or  more 
if  old ;  when  done  take  from  the  pan,  pour  off  the  fet,  and  to  the 
brown  gravy  left  add  the  chopped  giblets  which  have  previously 
been  stewed  till  tender,  together  with  the  water  they  were  boiled  in ; 
thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together,  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  serve  with  currant  jelly.  Apple  sauce  and  onion  sauce 
are  prope?  accompaniments  to  roast  goose. — Mrs,  J.  jET.  Shearer. 


172  QAMK 

Roast  Duck. 

Ducks  are  dressed  and  stuffed  in  the  same  manner  as  above. 
Young  ducks  should  roast  ftom  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes ;  ftdl- 
grown  for  an  hour  or  more  with  frequent  basting.  Some  prefer 
tiiem  underdone,  served  very  hot,  but  thorough  cookmg  will  prove 
more  generally  palatable.  Serve  with  currant  jelly,  apple  sauce, 
and  green  pease.     If  old,  parboil  before  roasting. 

Place  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  duck  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint 
of  gravy  and  a  little  sage,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  simmer  for  half 
an  hour ;  add  a  pint  of  boiled  green  pease,  stew  a  few  minutes, 
remove  to  a  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  gravy  and  pease. 

Boiled  Duck. 
Dress  and  rub  well  inside  with  salt  and  pepper,  truss  and  tie  in 
shape,  drawing  the  legs  in  to  the  body,  in  which  put  one  or  two  sage 
leaves,  a  little  finely-chopped  onion,  and  a  little  jellied  stock  or 
gravy;  rub  over  with  salt  and  pepper;  make  a  paste  in  the  propor- 
tion of  one-half  pound  butter  to  one  pound  flour,  in  which  inclose 
the  duck,  tie  a  cloth  around  all,  and  boil  two  hours  or  until  quite 
tender,  keeping  it  well  covered  with  boiling  water.  Serve  by  pour- 
ing round  it  brown  gravy  made  as  follows :  Put  a  lump  of  butter 
of  the  si2^  of  an  egg  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  little  minced  onion;  cook 
until  slightly  brown,  then  adding  a  small  table-spoon  of  flour,  stir 
well,  and  when  quite  brown  add  a  half  pint  stock  or  water ;  let 
cook  a  few  minutes,  strain,  and  add  to  the  chopped  giblets,  previ- 
ously stewed  till  tender. — Mn,  L,  S.  WUUston. 

Reed  Bibds. 

Boasting  by  suspending  on  the  little  wire  which  accompanies  the 
roaster,  is  the  best  method ;  turn  and  baste  firequently,  or  wash  and 
peel  with  as  thin  a  paring  as  possible  large  potatoes  of  equal  size, 
cut  a  deep  slice  off  one  end  of  each,  and  scoop  out  a  part  of  the  po- 
tato ;  drop  a  piece  of  butter  into  each  bird,  pepper  and  salt,  and  put 
it  in  the  hollows  made  in  the  potatoes;  put  on  as  covers  the  pieces 
cut  off,  and  clip  the  other  end  for  them  to  stand  on.  Set  in  a  bak- 
ing pan  upright,  with  a  Utile  water  to  prevent  burning,  bake  slowly, 
and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked. 

Or,  boil  in  a  crust  like  dumplings. 


GAMK  173 

Rabbits. 
Rabbits,  which  are  in  the  beet  condition  in  midwinter,  may  be 
fricaaseed  like  chicken  in  white  or  brown  sauce.  To  make  a  pie,  first 
stew  till  tender,  and  make  like  chicken-pie.  To  roast,  stuff  with  a 
dressing  made  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  salt  pork,  thyme,  onion, 
and  pepper  and  salt,  sew  up,  rub  over  with  a  little  butter,  or  pin  on 
it  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  add  a  little  water  in  the  pan,  and  baste 
often.     Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  currant  jelly. 

Snipe. 
Snipe  are  best  roasted  with  a  piece  of  pork  tied  to  the  breast,  or 

they  may  be  stuffed  and  baked. — Mrs,  if.  R. 

SAiiMi  OF  Duck. 
Save  remnants  of  cold  duck  or  other  game,  trim  meat  off  neatly, 

set  aside;  place  all  the  remains  (bones,  gravy,  etc.)  in  a  sauce-pan 

and.  cover  with  cold-water;   bring  gently  to  a  boil ;  skim,  add  an 

onion  that  has  been  cut  up  and  fried  brown  (nU  burned) ;  simmer 

gently  for  about  an  hour,  then  set  the  sauce-pan  in  a  cool  place 

long  enough  to  allow  the  fat  to  rise  and  "settle  on  top;"  skim  this 

off  carefldly — it  will  be  nice  to  fry  potatoes  with.     Now  return  the 

aauce-pan  to  the  fire,  and  when  about  to  boil  strain  off  the  liquid ; 

set  on  again,  add  salt  and  skim.      If  the  liquid  looks  cloudy,  let  it 

boil  up,  throw  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  the  scum  will  rise.     Now 

put  in  the  pepper  and  such  spice  as  may  be  desired,  also  a  bunch 

of  herbs  tied  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  or  very  finely  powdered. 

Take  a  large  spoon  of  flour  that  h&s  been  baked  in  the  oven  and 

kept  for  gravy,  mix  it  well  with  a  lump  of  butter  same  size,  put 

this  and  the  meat  all  in  together  and  stir  well  until  it  is  just  ready 

to  boil  again,  but  see  that  it  does  not  boil;  cover  closely  and  set  back 

where  it  may  keep  very  hot  without  cooking.     The  safest  plan  is  to 

put  the  sauce-pan  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Fried  Woodcock. 
Dress,  wipe  clean,  tie  the  legs,  skin  the  head  and  neck,  turn  the 

beak  under  the  wing  and  tie  it ;  tie  a  piece  of  bacon  over  it,  and  im- 
merse m  hot  &t  for  two  or  three  minutes.     Serve  on  toast. 

Another  fiivorite  way  is  to  split  them  through  the  back  and 
broil,  basting  with  butter,  and  serving  on  toast.  They  may  also  be 
roasted  whole  before  the  fire  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


ICES  AND  ICE-CREAM. 


Perfectly  fresh  sweet  cream  makes  the  most  delicious  ice-cream« 
A  substitute  is  a  preparation  of  boiled  new  milk,  etc.,  made  late  in 
the  evening  if  for  dinner,  in  the  morning  if  for  tea,  and  placed  on  ice. 
One  mixture  is  a  custard  made  as  follows :  Take  two  quarts  new  milk, 
put  on  three  pints  to  boil  in  a  custard-kettle,  or  a  pail  set  within  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eight  eggs  sepa- 
rately, mix  the  yolks  with  the  remaining  pint  and  stir  dofujiy  into  the 
boiling  milk,  boil  two  minutes,  remove  from  the  stove,  immodiaidg 
add  one  and  a  half  pounds  sugar,  let  it  dissolve,  strain  while  hd 
through  a  crash  towel,  cool,  add  one  quart  rich  cream  and  two  table* 
spoons  vanilla  (or  season  to  taste,  remembering  that  the  strength  of 
the  flavoring  and  also  the  sweetness  is  very  much  diminished  by 
the  freezing).  Set  the  custard  and  also  the  whites  (not  beaten)  in  a 
30ol  place  until  needed,  and  about  three  hours  before  serving  begin 
the  preparations  for  freezing.  Put  the  ice  in  a  coarse  coflee-sack, 
pound  with  an  ax  or  mallet  until  the  lumps  are  no  larger  than  a 
small  hickory-nut ;  see  that  the  freezer  is  properly  set  in  the  tub, 
the  beater  in  and  the  cover  secure ;  place  around  it  a  layer  of  ice 
about  three  inches  thick,  then  a  layer  of  coarse  salt — rock  salt  is 
best — then  ice  again,  then  salt,  and  so  on  until  packed  full,  with  a 
layer  of  ice  last.  The  proportion  should  be  about  three-fourths  ice 
and  one-fourth  salt.  Pack  very  solid,  pounding  with  a  broom-handle 
or  stick,  then  remove  the  cover  and  pour  the  custard  to  which  you 
have  just  added  the  well-whipped  whites  into  the  freezer,  filling  two- 
thirds  full  to  give  room  for  expansion ;  replace  the  cover  and  begin 
turning  the  freezer;  after  ten  minutes  pack  the  ice  down  again, 
drain  off  most  of  the  water,  add  more  ice  and  turn  again,  repeat* 

(174. 


ICES  AND  ICE-CREAM.  176 

fng  this  operation  several  times  until  the  cream  is  well  frozen,  and 
you  can  no  longer  turn  the  beater.  (The  above  quantity  ought  to 
freeze  in  half  an  hour,' but  the  more  pure  cream  used  the  longer  it 
takes  to  freeze.)  Brush  the  ice  and  salt  from  and  remove  the 
cover,  take  out  the  beater,  scrape  the  cream  down  from  the- sides 
of  freezer,  beat  well  several  minutes  with  a  wooden  paddle,  replace 
the  cover,  fill  the  hole  with  a  cork,  pour  off  all  the  water,  pack 
again  with  ice  (using  salt  at  the  bottom,  but  none  at  the  top  of  tub), 
heap  the  ice  on  the  cover,  spread  over  it  a  piece  of  carpet  or  a  thick 
woolen  blanket,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place  untO  needed ;  or,  if 
molds  are  used,  fill  them  when  you  remove  the  beater,  packing  the 
cream  in  very  tightly,  and  place  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours.  To 
remove  the  cream,  dip  the  molds  for  an  instant  in  warm  water. 
When  cream  is  used  in  making  ice-cream,  it  is  better  to  whip  a  part 
of  it,  and  add  just  as  the  cream  is  beginning  to  set. 

Coffee  ice-cream  should  be  thickened  with  arrowroot;  the  flavor- 
ing for  almond  cream  should  be  prepared  by  pounding  the  kernels 
to  a  paste  with  rose-water,  using  arrowroot  for  thickening.  For 
cocoa-nut  cream,  grate  cocoarnut  and  add  to  the  cream  and  sugar 
just  before  freezing.  The  milk  should  never  be  heated  for  pine- 
apple, strawberry,  or  raspberry  cream.  Berry  flavors  are  made  best 
by  allowing  whole  berries  to  stand  for  awhile  well  sprinkled  with 
sugar,  mashing,  straining  the  juice,  adding  sugar  to  it,  and  stirring 
it  into  the  cream.  For  a  quart  of  cream,  allow  a  quart  of  fruit  and 
a  pound  of  sugar.  In  addition  to  this,  add  whipped  cream  and 
sweetened  whole  berries,  just  as  the  cream  is  beginning  to  set,  in 
the  proportion  of  a  cup  of  berries  and  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  to 
three  pints  of  the  frozen  mixture.  Canned  berries  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way.  A  pint  of  berries  or  peaches,  cut  fine,  added  to  a 
quart  of  ordinary  ice^^ream,  while  in  process  of  freezing,  makes  a 
delicious  fruit  ice-cream. 

Freeze  ice-cream  in  a  warm  place  (the  more  rapid  the  melting  of 
the  ice  the  quicker  the  cream  freezes),  always  being  careful  that  no 
salt  or  water  gets  within  the  freezer.  K  cream  begins  to  melt 
while  serving,  beat  up  well  from  the  bottom  ^Ith  a  long  wooden 
paddle.  Water-ices  are  made  from  the  juices  of  fruits,  mixed  with 
water,  sweetened,  and  frx)zen  like  cream.    In  making  them,  if  they 


176  ICES  AND  ICE-CREAM. 

are  not  well  mixed  before  freezing,  the  sugar  will  sink  to  the  bot* 
torn,  and  the  mixture  will  have  a  sharp,  unpleasant  taste.  It  is  a 
better  plan  to  make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  by  boiling 
and  skimming  when  necessary,  and,  when  cold,  add  the  juice  of  the 
fruit.' 

The  following  directions  for  making  "  self-freeziug  ice  cream**  are 
from  **  Common  Sense  in  the  Household."  After  preparing  the 
freezer  as  above,  but  leaving  out  the  beater,  remove  the  lid  care- 
fully, and  with  a  long  wooden  ladle  or  flat  stick  beat  the  custard  as 
you  would  batter  steadily  lor  five  or  six  minutes.  Replace  the  lid, 
pack  two  inches  of  pounded  ice  over  it ;  spread  above  all  several 
folds  of  blanket  or  carpet,  and  leave  it  untouched  for  an  hour ;  at 
the  end  of  that  time  remove  the  ice  from  above  the  freezer-lid,  wipe 
off  carefully  and  o|)en  the  freezer.  Its  sides  will  be  lined  with  a 
thick  layer  of  frozen  cream.  Displace  this  with  the  ladle  or  a  long 
knife,  working  every  part  of  it  loose ;  beat  up  the  custard  again 
firmly  and  vigorously  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  until  it  is  all 
smooth,  half-congealed  paste.  The  perfection  of  the  ice-cream  de- 
pends upon  the  thoroughness  of  the  beating  at  this  point.  Put  on 
the  cover  again,  pack  in  more  ice  and  salt,  turn  off  the  brine,  cover 
the  freezer  entirely  with  the  ice,  and  spread  over  all  the  carpet. 
At  the  end  of  two  or  three  hours  more,  again  turn  off  the  brine  and 
add  fresh  ice  and  salt,  but  do  not  open  the  freezer  for  two  hours 
more.  At  thai;  time  take  the  freezer  from  the  ice,  open  it,  wrap  a 
towel  wet  in  hot  water  about  the  lower  part,  and  turn  out  a  solid 
column  of  ice-cream,  close  grained,  firm,  delicious.  Any  of  the 
recipes  for  custard  ice-cream  may  be  frozen  in  this  way. 

Ice-creams  may  be  formed  into  fanciful  shapes  by  the  use  of 
molds.  After  the  cream  is  frozen,  place  in  mold,  and  set  in 
pounded  ice  and  salt  until  ready  to  serve.  Cream  may  be  frozen 
without  a  patent  freezer,  by  simply  placing  it  in  a  covered  tin  pail, 
and  setting  the  latter  in  an  ordinary  wooden  bucket,  and  proceed 
exactly  as  directed  for  self-freezing  ice-cream,,  packing  into  the  space 
between  them,  very  firmly,  a  mixture  of  one  part  salt  to  two  parts 
of  snow  or  pounded  ice.  When  the  space  is  full  to  within  an  inch 
of  the  top,  remove  cover. 


IQES  AND  ICE-CREAM,  177 

Chocolate  Ice-Creah. 

Scald  one  pint  new  milk,  add  by  degrees  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  sugar,  two  eggs,  and  five  table-spoons  chocolate,  rub  smooth 
in  a  little  milk.  Beat  well  for  a  moment  or  two,  place  over  the 
fire  and  heat  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  constantly,  set  off,  add 
ft  tablespoon  of  thin,  dissolved  gelatine,  and  when  cold,  place  in 
freezer ;  when  it  begins  to  set,  add  a  quart  of  rich  cream,  half  of  it 
well  whipped. 

To  make  a  mold  of  chocolate  and  vanilla,  freeze  in  separate 
freezei*s,  divide  a  mold  through  the  center  with  card-board,  fill  each 
division  with  a  difierent  cream,  and  set  mold  in  ice  and  salt  for  an 
hour  or  moi'c. 

To  make  chocolate  fruit  ice-cream,  when  almost  frozen,  add  a 

coffee-cup  of  preserved  peaches,  or  any  other  preserves,  cut  in  fine 

XHeces. 

Egoless  Ice-cream. 

A  scant  tea-cup  flour  to  two  quarts  new  milk  ;  put  three  pints  on 
to  boil  (in  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water),  mix  the  flour 
with  the  other  pint  tiU  smooth,  then  stir  it  in  the  boiling  milk ;  let 
it  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and,  just  before  taking  it  from  the  fire, 
stir  in  one  and  a  half  pounds  pulverized  sugar  (any  good  white 
sugar  will  do).  Care  must  be  taken  to  stir  all  the  time  after  put- 
ting in  the  sugar,  only  letting  it  remain  a  moment,  or  just  long 
enough  to  dissolve  it ;  take  from  stove,  and  strain  at  once  through 
a  crash  toweL  When  cold,  add  one  quart  cream.  Flavor  with 
vanilla,  in  the  proportion  of  one  and  a  fourth  table-spoons  to  a  gallon. 

^-Mrs.  lAbbie  DoUbear. 

Fruit  Frapees. 

Line  a  mold  with  vanilla  ice-weani,  fill  the  center  with  fresh 
berries,  or  fruit  cut  in  slices,  cover  with  ice  cream,  cover  closely, 
and  set  in  freezer  for  half  an  hour,  with  salt  and  ice  well  packed 
around  it.  The  fruit'  must  be  chilled,  but  not  frozen.  Strawber- 
ries and  ripe  peaches  are  delicious  thus  prepared. — Mn.  J.  C.  P., 

StoMridgey 

Ice-cream. 

Three  pints  sweet  cream,  quart  new  milk,  pint  powdered  sugar, 

the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  table-spoon  vanilla ;  put  in 
12 


178  ICES  AND  ICE-CHEAM. 

freezer  till  thoroughly  chilled  through,  and  then  freeze.     This  is 
very  easily  made. — Mrs.  OogsweU, 

Ice-cream. 
One  quart  new  milk,  two  eggs,  two  table-spoons  com  starch; 
heat  the  milk  in  a  dish  set  in  hot  water,  then  stir  in  the  com  starch 
mixed  smooth  in  a  little  of  the  milk ;  let  it  boil  for  one  or  two 
minutes,  then  remove  from  stove  and  cool,  and  stir  in  the  egg  and 
a  half  pound  sugar.  If  to  be  extra  nice,  add  a  pint  of  rich  cream, 
and  one-fourth  pound  sugar,  strain  the  mixture,  and  when  cool  add 
the  flavoring,  and  freeze  as  follows:  Prepare  freezer  in  the  usual 
manner,  turn  the  crank  one  hundred  times,  then  pour  upon  the 
ice  and  salt  a  quart  boiling  water  from  the  tea-kettle.  Fill  up 
again  with  ice  and  salt,  tum  the  crank  fifty  times  one  way  and 
twenty-five  the  other  (which  serves  to  scrape  the  cream  from  sides 
of  freezer)  ;  by  this  time  it  will  turn  very  hard,  indicating  that  the 
cream  is  frozen  sufficiently. — Mrs.  Win,  Herricky 

Lemon  ics- cream. 
Squeeze  a  dozen  lemons,  make  the  juice  quite  thick  with  white 
sugar,  stir  into  it  very  slowly,  three  quarts  of  creanii,  and  freeze. 
Orange  ice-cream  is  prepared  in  the  same  way,  using  less  sugar. 

Pike-apple  Ice-cream. 
Three  pints  cream,  two  large  ripe  pine-apples,  two  pounds  pow- 
dered sugar ;  slice  the  pine-apples  thin,  scatter  the  sugar  between 
the  slices,  cover  and  let  the  fruit  stand  three  hours,  cut  or  chop  it 
up  in  the  syrup;  and  strain  through  a  hair-sieve  or  double  bag  of 
coarse  lace;  beat  gradually  into  the  cream,  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as 
possible ;  reserve  a  few  pieces  of  pine-apple  unsugared,  cut  into 
square  bits,  and  stir  through  cream  when  half  frozen,  first  a  pint  of 
well-whipped  cream,  and  then  the  fruit.  Peach  ice-cream  may  be 
made  in  the  same  way. — Mr^,  L.  M.  T., 

Strawberry  Ice-cream. 

Sprinkle  strawberries  with  sugar,  wash  well  and  rub  through  a 

sieve ;  to  a  pint  of  the  juice  add  half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  make 

it  very  sweet;  freeze,  and  when  beginning  to  set,  stir  in  lightly  one 

pint  of  cream  whipped,  and  lastly  a  handflil  of  whole  strawberries 


ICES  AND  ICE-CREAM.  179 

sweetened.  It  may  then  be  put  in  a  mold  and  imbedded  in  ice,  or 
kept  in  tbe  freezer ;  or  masb  with  a  potato-pounder  m  an  earthen 
bowl  one  quart  of  strawberries  with  one  pound  of  sugar ;  rub  it 
through  a  colander,  add  one  quart  of  sweet  cream  and  freeze.  Or, 
if  not  in  the  strawberry  season,  use  the  French  bottled  strawberries 
(or  any  canned  ones),  mix  juice  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  sweeten 
and  freeze ;  when  partially  set  add  whipped  cream  and  strawberries. 

Kentucky  Cream. 
Make  a  half  gallon  rich  boiled  custard,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  two 
table-spoons  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  half  cup  cold  milk;  let  thb  cus- 
tard cool,  put  it  in  freezer,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  freeze,  add 
(me  pound  raisins,  one  pint  strawberry  preserves,  one  quart  whipped 
cream;  stir  and  beat  well  like  ice-cream.  Blanched  almonds  or 
grated  cocoa-nut  are  additions.  Some  prefer  currants  to  raisins, 
and  some  also  add  citron  chopped  fine.— Jifi^.  Ocv.  J.  B.  McOreary^ 

Ksntiicky. 

Apple  Ice. 

Grate,  sweeten  and  freeze  well-flavored  apples,  pears,  peaches  or 

quinces.     Canned  fruit  may  be  mashed  and  prepared  in  the  same 

way. 

Currant  Ice. 

Boil  down  three  pints  of  W£^  i^d  a  pound  and  a  half  sugar  to 
one  quart,  skim,  add  two  cups  of  currant  iuice.  and  when  partly 
frozen,  add  the  whites  of  five  eggs. 

Lemon  Ice. 

To  one  pint  of  lemon  juice,  add  one  quart  of  sugar,  and  ono 
quart  of  water,  in  which  the  thin  rind  of  three  lemons  has  been 
allowed  to  stand  until  highly  flavored.  When  partly  frozen  add 
the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stifl"  froth. 

Orange  Ice.  ^ 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  in  one  quart  of  water ; 

when  cool  add  the  juice  of  six  oranges  ;  steep  the  rinds  in  a  little 

water,  strain,  and  flavor  to  taste  with  it.     The  juice  and  rind  of 

one  or  two  lemons  added  to  the  orange  is  a  great  improvement. 

Freeze  like  ice-cream. 

Strawberry  Ice.      • 

Maah  two  quarts  of  strawberries  with  two  poun(*3  of  sugar;  let 


180  ICES  AND  ICE-CBEAM. 

stand  an  hour  or  more,  squeeze  in  a  straining  cloth,  pressing  out 
all  the  juice;  add  an  equal  measure  of  water ;  and  when  half  frozen, 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  in  the  proportion  of  three  eggs  to 
a  quart. — R,  L.  C. ,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Tba.  Ice-cream. 

Pour  over  four  table-spoons  of  Old  Hyson  tea,  a  pint  of  cream, 
scald  in  a  custard-kettle,  or  by  placing  the  dish  containing  it  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  let  stand  five 
minutes ;  strain  it  into  a  pint  of  cold  cream,  put  on  to  scald  again, 
and  when  hot  mix  with  it  four  eggs  and  three-fourths  pound  sugar, 
well  beaten  together;  let  cool  and  freeze. — Mm  A,  C.  i/.,  Ptii^ldi, 

Washington  Fruit  Ice-cream. 

Take  two  dozen  sweet  and  half  a  dozen  bitter  almonds;  blanch 
in  scalding  water,  throw  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water;  pound  one  at 
a  time  in  a  mortar,  till  they  become  a  smooth  paste  firee  from  the 
smallest  lumps;  add  frequently  a  few  drops  of  rose-water  or  lemon- 
juice  to  make  them  light  and  prevent  ''oiling."  Seed  and  cut  a 
quarter  pound  of  the  best  bloom  raisins ;  mix  with  them  a  quarter 
pound  of  Zante  currants,  picked,  washed  and  dried,  and  three 
ounces  of  chopped  citron ;  dredge  well  with  flour.  Take  a  half 
pint  of  very  rich  milk,  split  a  vanilla  bean,  cut  it  into  pieces  two 
or  three  inches  long,  and  boildl'  iji  the  milk  till  the  flavor  of  the 
vanilla  is  well  extracted,  then  ^ain  it  out  and  mix  the  vanilla 
milk  with  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  stir  in  gradually  a  half  pound 
of  powdered  loaf-sugar  and  a  nutmeg  grated.  Then  add  the 
pounded  almonds,  and  a  large  wine-glass  of  either  marasquino, 
noyau,  curacoa  or  the  very  best  brandy.  Beat  in  a  shallow  pan 
the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  till  very  light,  thick  and  smooth,  and  stir 
them  gradually  into  the  mixture.  Simmer  over  the  flre  (stirring  all 
the  time),  but  take  ofi*  just  before  it  boils,  otherwise  it  vrill  curdle. 
At  once  stir  in  the  fruit,  set  to  cool,  and  then  add  a  large  tea-cup 
preserved  strawberries  or  raspberries,  half  a  dozen  preserved  apricots 
or  peaches,  half  a  dozen  preserved  green  limes,  and  any  other  very 
nice  and  delicate  sweetmeats;  add  a  pint  whipped  cream  lightly  to 
the  mixture;  put  the  whole  into  a  large  melon-mold  that  opens  in 
the  middle,  and  freeze  four  hours  in  the  usual  way.  Turn  out  when 
wanted  and  serve  on  a  glass  dish. — Mn.  Chv.  Oravery  Oregon. 


JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 


Jellies  were  formerly  reputed  nourishing,  digestible,  and  fit  food 
for  sick  and  delicate  persons,  but  modern  investigation  places  them 
second  to  the  lean  part  of  animals  and  birds.  When  made  of  gela- 
tine, they  have  no  nutrition,  and  are  simply  used  to  carry  a  pala- 
table flavor. 

Always  make  jellies  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  if  possible,  but  brass 
may  be  used  if  scoured  very  bright  and  the  fruit  is  removed  imme- 
diately on  taking  from  the  fire.  Use  the  best  refined  or  granulated 
sugar,  and  do  not  have  the  fruit,  especially  currants  and  grapes, 
overripe. 

To  extract  the  juice,  place  fruit  in  kettle  with  just  enough  water 
to  keep  from  burning,  stir  often,  and  let  remain  on  the  fire  until 
thoroughly  scalded ;  or  a  better  but  rather  slower  method  is  to  place 
it  in  a  stone  jar  set  within  a  kettle  of  tepid  water,  boil  until  the 
fiiut  is  well  softened,  stirring  frequently,  and  then  strain  a  small 
quantity  at  a  time  through  a  strong  coarse  flannel  or  cotton  bag 
wrung  out  of  hot  water,  after  which  let  it  drain,  and  squeeze  it  with 
the  hands  as  it  cools,  emptying  the  bag  and  rinsing  it  off*  each  time 
it  is  used.  The  larger  fruits,  such  as  apples  and  quinces,  should  be 
cut  in  pieces,  cores  removed  if  at  all  defective,  water  added  to  just 
cover  them,  boiled  gently  until  tender,  turned  into  bag  and  placed 
to  drain  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  over  night.  Make  not  over  two 
or  three  pints  of  jelly  at  a  time,  as  larger  quantities  require  longer 
boiling.  As  a  general  rule  allow  equal  measures  juice  and  sugar. 
Boil  juice*  rapidly  ten  minutes  from  the  first  moment  of  boiling, 
skim,  add  sugar,  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer;  or  spread  the  sugar 

(181) 


182  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

in  a  large  dripping-pan,  set  in  the  oven,  stir  often  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, boil  the  juice  just  twenty  minutes,  add  the  hot  sugar,  let  boil 
up  once,  and  pour  into  the  jelly-glasses  immediately,  as  a  thin  skin 
forms  over  the  surface  which  keeps  out  the  air ;  cover  with  brandied 
tissue  paper,  cut  to  fit  glass  closely,  cool  quickly  and  set  in  a  dry, 
cool,  dark  place.  Jelly  should  be  examined  toward  the  end  of  sum- 
mer, and  if  there  are  any  signs  of  fermentation,  reboiL  Jelly  needs 
more  attention  in  damp,  rainy  seasons  than  in  others.  To  test  jelly, 
drop  a  little  in  a  glass  of  very  cold  water,  and  if  it  immediately' 
falls  to  the  bottom  it  is  done ;  or  drop  in  a  saucer,  and  set  on  ice  or 
in  a  cool  place;  if  it  does  not  spread,  but  remains  rounded,  it  is 
finished.  Some  strain  through  the  bag  into  the  glasses,  but  this 
involves  waste,  and  if  skimming  is  carefully  done  is  not  necessary. 
A  little  butter  or  lard,  rubbed  with  a  cloth  on  the  outside  of  glasses 
or  cans,  will  enable  one  to  pour  in  the  boiling  fruit  or  liquid,  the 
first  spoon  or  two  slowly,  without  breaking  the  glass.  If  jelly  is 
not  very  firm,  let  it  stand  in  the  sun  covered  with  bits  of  window^ 
glass  or  pieces  of  mosquito  netting,  for  a  few  days.  Never  attempt 
to  make  jelly  in  damp  or  cloudy  weather  if  firmness  and  clearness 
are  desired.  Use  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon  to  stir,  dip  with  earthen 
cup,  and  cook  in  porcelain -lined  kettles.  Currants  and  berries 
should  1)6  made  up  as  soon  as  picked ;  never  let  them  stand  over 
night.  When  ready  to  put  away,  cover  with  pieces  of  tissue  or 
writing-paper  cut  to  fit  and  pressed  closely  upon  the  jelly,  and  put 
on  the  lid  or  cover  with  thick  paper,  brushed  over  on  the  inside 
with  the  white  of  an  egg  and  turned  down  on  the  outside  of  glass. 


Apple  or  Blackberry  Jelly. 
Prepare  nice,  tart,  juicy  apples  as  in  general  directions,  using  three 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice.     Prepare  blackberry 
jelly  according  to  general  directions  for  berries. 

Calf's- FOOT  Jelly. 
Cut  across  the  first  joint,  and  through  the  hoof,  place  in  a  large 
sauce-pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  bring  quickly  to  the  boiling 
point;  when  water  boils,  remove  them,  and  Avash  thoroughly  in 
cold  water.  When  perfectly  clean  put  into  a  porcelain-lined  sauce- 
pan, add  cold  water  in  the  proportion  of  three  pints  to  two  calfs 


JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  183 

leet>  |mt  Muc^-pan  over  fire,  and  when  water  boils,  set  aside  to  a 

cooler  place,  where  it  will  simmer  very  slowly  for  five  hours ;  strain 

the  liquor  through  a  fine  sieve,  or  a  coarse  towel,  let  it  stand  over 

night  to  set,  remove  the  fat  that  has  risen  to  the  top,  dip  a  towel  in 

boiling  water,  and  wash  the  surface,  which  wiU  be  quite  firm.  Now 

place  in  a  porcelain-lined  sauce-pan,  and  melt,  add  juice  of  two 

lemons,  rinds  of  three  cut  into  strips,  one-fourth  pound  of  cut  loa^ 

sugar,  ten  cloves,  and  one  inch  of  cinnamon  stick.     Put  the  whites 

of  three  eggs,  together  with  the  shells  (which  must  first  be  blanched 

in  boiling  water),  into  a  bowl,  beat  them  slightly,  and  pour  them 

into  the  sauce-pan,  continuing  to  use  the  egg-beater  until  the  whole 

boils,   when  the  pan  should  be  drawn  aside  where  it  will  simmer 

gently  for  ten  minutes,  skimming  ofi*  all  scum  as  it  rises.      While 

simmering,  prepare  a  piece  of  flannel  by  pouring  through  it  a  little 

warm  water;  and  when  the  jelly  has  simmered  ten  minutes,  pour 

it  through  this  bag  into  a  bowl,  and  repeat  the  process  of  straining 

until  it  is  perfectly  clear,  when  add  a  half  gill  of  sherry  (or  brandy, 

or  brandy  and  sherry  mixed  in  equal  proportions)i  stir  well,  pour 

into  molds,  and  place  upon  ice  or  in  a  cool  place  until  jelly  sets  and 

becomes  firm  enough  to  turn  out  and  serve. 

Currant  Jelly. 
Do  not  pick  from  the  stem,  but  carefully  remove  all  leaves  and 
imperfect  fruit,  place  in  a  stone  jar,  and  follow  general  directions; 
or  place  one  pint  currants,  picked  off  the  stem,  and  one  pint  sugar, 
in  the  kettle  on  the  stove,  scald  well,  skim  out  currants,  and  dry 
on  plates;  or  make  into  jam  with  one-third  currants  and  two-thirds 
raspberries,  straining  juice  after  sweetening,  and  cooking  until  it 
"jellies.'*'  After  currants  are  dried  put  them  in  stone  jars  and 
cover  closely. — Mn.  A,  B.  M,  \ 

Crakberry  Jelly. 
Prepare  juice  as  in  general  directions,  add  one  pound  sugar  to 
every  pint,  boil  and  skim,  test  by  dropping  a  little  into  cold  water 
(when  it  does  not  mingle  with  the  water  it  is  done),  rinse  glasses 
in  cold  water  before  pouring  in  the  jelly  to  prevent  sticking.  The 
pulp  may  be  sweetened  and  used  for  sauce. — C  O.  &  E.  W. 
Onme,  OddweU,  K  J. 


184  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. 

Wash  and  quarter  large  Siberian  crabs,  but  do  not  core,  ooyer 
to  the  depth  of  an  inch  or  two  witli  cold  water,  and  cook  to  a 
mush ;  pour  into  a  coarse  cotton  bag  or  strainer,  and  when  cool 
enough,  press  or  squeeze  hard,  to  extract  all  the  juice.  Take  a 
piece  of  fine  Swito  muslin  or  crinoline,  wring  out  of  water,  spread 
over  a  colander  placed  over  a  crock,  and  with  a  cup  dip  the  juice 
slowly  in,  allowing  plenty  of  time  to  run  through ;  repeat  this  pro- 
cess twice,  rinsing  out  the  musliu  frequently.  Allow  the  strained 
juice  of  four  lemons  to  a  peck  of  apples,  and  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice  from  ten  to 
twenty  minutes;  while  boiling  sift  in  the  sugar  slowly,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  This  is  generally  sufficient, 
but  it  is  always  safer  to  '*  try  it,"  and  ascertain  whether  it  will 
"jelly. "     This  makes  a   very  clear,  sparkling  jelly. — Mrs,    Oarol 

OcofteSy  Bivemde^  ML 

Coffee  Jelly. 

Half  box  Coxe's  gelatine  soaked  half  an  hour  in  a  half  tea-cup 

cold  water  (as  little  water   as  possible),  one  quart  strong  coffee, 

made  as  if  for  the  table  and  sweetened  to  taste ;  add  the  dissolved 

^latine  to  the  hot  coffee,  stir  well,  strain  into  a  mold  rinsed  with 

cold  water  just  before  using,  set  on  ice  or  in  a  very  cool  place,  and 

serve  with  whipped  cream.     Thb  jelly  is  very  pretty,  formed  in  a 

circular  mold  with  tube  in  center ;  when  turned  out  fill  the  space 

in  center  with  whipped  cream  heaped  up  a  little. — Mrs.  A.  Wtlson^ 

Bye/N.  Y. 

Easter  Jelly. 

Color  calf  s-foot  jelly  a  bright  yellow  by  steeping  a  small  quantity 
of  dried  saffron  leaves  in  the  water.  Pare  lemons  in  long  strips 
about  the  width  of  a  straw,  boil  in  water  until  tender,  throw  them 
into  a  rich  syrup,  and  boil  until  clear.  Make  a  blanc-mange  of 
cream,  color  one-third  pink  with  poke-berry  syrup,  one-third  green 
with  spinach,  and  leave  the  other  white.  Pour  out  egg?,  from  a  hole 
a  half  inch  in  diameter  in  the  large  end,  wash  and  drain  the  shells 
carefully,  set  them  in  a  basin  of  salt  to  fill,  and  pour  in  the  blanc- 
mange slowly  through  a  funnel,  and  place  the  dish  in  a  refrigerator 
for  several  hours.      When  ready  to  serve,  select  a  round,  shallow 


JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  185 

dish  about  as  large  as  a  hen's  nest,  form  the  jelly  in  it  as  a  lining, 
scatter  the  strips  of  lemon  peel  over  the  edge  like  straws,  remove 
the  egg<6hells  carefully  from  the  blanc-mange,  and  fill  the  nest  with 
them. — Mrs.  C.  M,  Coates,  PfiUadelphia. 

Four-Fruit  Jelly. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  ripe  strawberries,  raspberries,  currants, 

and  reil  cherries,  all  should  be  fully  ripe,  and  the  cherries  must  be 

stoned,  taking  care  to  preserve  the  juice  that  escapes  in  stoning,  and 

add   it  to  the  rest.      Mix  the  fruit  together,  put  it  into  a  linen 

bag,  and  squeeze  it  thoroughly ;  when  it  has  ceased  to  drip,  measure 

the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  allow  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  the 

best  loaf-sugar,  in  large  lumps.     Mix  the  juice  and  sugar  together; 

put  them  in  a  porcelain-lined  preserving  kettle,  and  boil  for  half  an 

hour,  skimming  frequently.     Try  the  jelly  by  dipping  out  a  spoon^' 

fid,  and  holding  it  in  the  open  air ;  if  it  congeals  readily  it  is  suffi* 

dently  done.     ThisjeUy  u  very  fine, — Mr».  E,  S,  MiUer. 

Grape  Jelly. 
Prepare  fruit  and  rub  through  a  sieve;  to  every  pound  of  pulp 
add  a  pound  of  sugar,  stir  well  together,  boil  slowly  twenty  minutes, 
then  follow  general  directions;  or,  prepare  the  juice,  boil  twenty 
minutes,  and  add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  juice  after  it 
is  reduced  by  boiling ;  then  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Or  put  on 
grapes  just  beginning  to  turn,  l)oil,  place  in  jelly-bag  and  let  drain; 
to  one  pint  juice  add  one  pint  sugar,  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  just 
before  it  is  done  add  one  tearspoon  dissolyed  gum-arabic. — Mrs.  W.  M. 

Lemon  Jelly. 
Juice  of  six  lemons,  grated  peel  of  two,  two  targe  cups  sugar,  one 
package  Coxe's  gelatine  soaked  in  two  cups  cold  water,  two  glasses 
pale  sherry  or  white  wine,  one  pint  boiling  water ;  stir  lemon-juice, 
peel,  sugacand  soaked  gelatine  together,  and  cover  for  an  hour;  pour 
the  boiling  water  over  them ;  stir  until  all  is  dissolved  perfectly,  add 
wine,  strain  through  flannel,  and  pour  in  mold.  If  fruit  jdelds  less  than 
a  large  co£fee-cup  juice,  add  more  water,  so  the  jelly  may  not  be  tough. 

Orange  Jelly. 
Two  quarts  water,  four  ounces  gelatine,  nine  oranges  and  three 
lemons,  a  pound  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs;  soak  gelatine  in  a  pint 


186  •  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

of  water,  boil  the  three  pints  water  and  sugar  together,  skim  well, 
add  dissolved  gelatine,  orange  and  lemon  juice,  and  beaten  whites; 
let  oome  to  a  boil,  skim  off  carefully  all  scum,  boil  until  it  jeUies^ 
and  pour  jelly  into  mold.     Strain,  scum  and  add  to  mold* 

Peach  Jellt. 

Crack  one-third  of  the  kernels  and  put  them  in  the  jar  with  the 
peaches,  which  should  be  pared,  stoned  and  sliced.  Heat  in  a  pot 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  occasionally  until  the  fruit  is  well  broken. 
Strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  peach  juice  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.- 
Measure  again,  and  to  every  pint  of  peach  juice  add  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Heat  the  sugar  very  hot,  and  add  when  the  juice  has  boiled 
twenty  minutes.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  take  instantly  from  the 
fire.    This  is  very  fine  for  jelly  cake. 

Quince  Jellt. 

Rub  the  quinces  with  a  cloth  until  perfectly  smooth,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  pack  tight  in  a  kettle,  pour  on  cold  water  until  level  with  the 
fruit,  boil  until  very  soft ;  make  a  three-cornered  flannel  bag,  pour 
in  fruit  and  hang  up  to  drain,  occasionally  pressing  on  the  top  and 
sides  to  make  the  juice  run  more  freely,  taking  care  not  to  press  hard 
enough  to  expel  the  pulp.  There  is  not  much  need  of  pressing  a 
bag  made  in  this  shape,  as  the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  the  larger  part 
causes  the  juice  to  flow  freely  at  the  point.  To  a  pint  of  juice  add 
Sk  pint  of  sugar  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  is  jelly;  pour 
into  tumblers,  or  bowls,  and  finish  according  to  general  directions. 
If  quinces  are  scarce,  the  parings  and  cores  of  quinces  with  good 
tart  apples,  boiled  and  strained  as  above,  make  exceUent  jelly,  and 
the  quinces  are  saved  for  preserves. — Mrs.  M.  J.  W. 

Transcendent  Crab-apple  Jelly. 

Transcendents  or  any  variety  of  crab-apples,  may  be  prepared  as 
cultivated  wild  plums,  adding  flavoring  of  almond,  lemon,  peachy 
pine-apple  or  vanilla  to  the  jelly  in  the  proportion  of  one  tea-spoon 
to  two  pinUi,  or  more  if  it  is  wished  stronger,  just  before  it  is  donOr 

Plum  Jelly. 

If  plums  are  wild  (not  cultivated)  put  in  pan  and  sprinkle  with 
soda  and  pour  hot  water  over  them,  let  stand  a  few  moments  and 
stir  through  them  ;  take  out  and  put  on  with  water  just  to  cover,  or 
less  if  plums  are  very  juicy ;  boil  till  soft,  dip  out  juice  with  a  china 


JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  187 

• 
cap ;  then  Btrain  the  rest  through  small  salt-bags  (by  the  way,  keep 

them  for  jelly-bags  as  they  are  just  the  thing),  do  not  squeeze  them. 
Take  pound  for  pound  of  juice  and  sugar,  or  pint  for  pint,  and  boil 
for  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Jelly  will  be  nicer  if  only  one  measure  or 
a  measure  and  a  half  is  made  at  one  time ;  if  more,  boil  longer ; 
some  boil  juice  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  sugar  and  boil  five 
minutes  longer.  It  can  be  tested  by  dropping  in  a  saucer  and 
placing  on  ice  or  in  a  cool  place ;  if  it  does  not  spread  but  remains 
rounded  it  is  finished.  If  the  plums  are  the  cultivated  wild 
plum,  make  as  above  without  using  the  soda.  Take  the  plums 
that  are  left  and  press  through  a  sieve,  then  take  pint  for  pint  of 
sugar  and  pulp,  boiling  the  latter  half  an  hour  and  then  adding 
sugar,  boiling  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  more.  Half  a  pint  sugar  to  a 
pint,  makes  a  rich  marmalade,  and  one-third  pint  to  pint,  boiling  it 
longer,  is  nice  canned,  and  used  for  pies,  adding  milk,  eggs  and 
sugar  as  for  squash  pies. 

Plum-apple  jelly  may  be  made  by  preparing  the  juice  of  apples 
and  plums  as  above  (a  nice  proportion  is  one  part  plums  to  two 
parts  apples ;  for  instance,  one  peck  of  plums  to  two  pecks  apples) ; 
then  mixing  the  juice  and  finish  without  flavoring.  The  marma- 
lade is  made  in  the  same  way  as  above.  Some  add  a  little  ginger 
root  to  it.  One  bushel  of  apples  and  one  peck  of  plums  make  forty 
pints  of  jelly,  part  crab-apple  and  part  mixed,  and  sixteen  quart 
glass  cans  of  mixed  marmalade.  In  making  either  kind  of  jelly  the 
fruit  may  be  squeezed  and  the  juice  strained  twice  through  swiss 
or  crinoline  and  made  into  jelly.  The  pulp  can  not  then  be  used 
for  marmalade. 

Pie-plant  Jelly. 
Wash  the  stalks  well,  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  put  them  into 
a  preserving-kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  to  a 
soft  pulp;  strain  through  a  jelly-bag.  To  each  pint  of  this  juice 
add  a  poand  of  loaf-sugar;  boil  again,  skimming  often,  and  when 
it  jellies  on  the  skimmer  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  put  into  jars. 


188  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 


JAMS. 


In  making  jams,  the  fruit  should  be  carefully  cleaned  and  thar- 
(mghly  bruised,  as  mashing  it  before  cooking  prevents  it  fix>m  becom- 
ing hard.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  adding  the  sugar, 
lis  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  is  thus  better  preserved  (usually  allowing 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit),  and  then 
boil  half  an  hour  longer.  Jams  require  almost  constant  stirring, 
and  every  house-keeper  should  be  provided  with  a  small  paddle  with 
handle  at  right  angles  with  the  blade  (similar  to  an  apple-butter 
**  stirrer,"  only  smaller),  to  be  used  in  making  jams  and  marmalades. 
Jams  are  made  from  the  more  juicy  berries,  such  as  blackberries, 
currants,  raspberries,  strawberries,  etc.;  m^irmalades  from  the  firmei 
fruits,  such  as  pine-apples,  peaches  and  apricots.  Both  require  th% 
closest  attention,  as  the  slightest  degree  of  burning  ruins  the  flavor. 
They  must  be  boiled  sufficiently,  and  have  plenty  of  sugar  to  keep 
well. 

To  tell  when  any  jam  or  marmalade  is  sufficiently  cooked,  take 
out  some  of  it  on  a  plate  and  let  it  cool.  If  no  juice  or  moisture 
gathers  about  it,  and  it  looks  dry  and  glistening,  it  is  done  thor- 
oughly. Put  up  in  glass  or  small  stone  jars,  and  seal  or  secure  like 
canned  fruits  or  jellies.  Keep  jellies  and  jams  in  a  cool,  dry,  and 
dark  place. 

Currant  Jam. 

Pick  from  stems  and  wash  thoroughly  with  the  hands,  put  into  a 
preserving  kettle  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  stirring  often, 
and  skimming  ofi*  any  scum  that  may  arise ;  then  add  sugar  in  the 
proportion  of  three-fourths  pound  sugar  to  one  pound  fruit,  or,  by 
measure,  one  coflfee-cup  of  sugar  to  one  pint  mashed  fruit ;  boil  thirty 
minutes  longer,  stirring  almost  constantly.  When  done,  pour  in 
small  jars  or  glasses,  and  either  seal  or  secure  like  jelly,  by  first 
pressing  paper,  cut  to  fit  the  glasses,  down  close  on  the  fruit,  and 
then  larger  papers,  brushed  on  the  inside  with  white  of  eggs,  with 
the  edges  turned  down  over  the  outside  of  the  glass. 


JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  189 

Gooseberry  Jam. 

Stew  the  berries  in  a  little  water,  press  through  a  coarse  sieve, 
retnm  to  the  kettle,  add  three-fourths  pound  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  the  pulped  gooseberry ;  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring 
constantly ;  pour  in  jars  or  bowls,  and  cover  as  directed  for  cur- 
rant jams. — Mrs.  C.  Meade,  Tenn. 

Grape  or  Plum  Jam. 

Stew  in  a  little  water,  and  press  the  fruit  through  a  colander  or 
coarse  sieve,  adding  a  little  water  to  plums  to  get  all  the  pulp 
through ;  add  sugar,  and  finish  as  in  other  jams. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Make  by  itself,  or,  better,  combined  with  currants  in  the  propor- 
tion of  one-third  currants  to  two-thirds  raspberries ;  mash  the  fruit 
well,  and  proceed  as  in  currant  jam. 

Make  blackberry  jam  like  raspberry,  except  that  it  should  not  be 
mixed  with  currants. 

Strawberry  jam  is  made  exactly  like  blackberry. 

French  Jam. 

The  addition  of  one  pound  of  raisins  to  each  gallon  of  currant 
jam  converts  this  into  very  fine  French  jam. — Mrs.  8.  C. ,  Parity  Ky. 

Fruit  Jelly. 

Take  one  box  of  gelatine,  soak  it  one  hour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water ; 
when  well  soaked  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  then  put  in  a 
quart  of  any  kind  of  fruit,  strawberries,  raspberries  or  cherries  be- 
ing nice;  add  half  cup  sugar,  one  spoonful  of  extract  of  lemon; 
pour  into  a  mold,  find  when  cold  eat  with  cream  and  sugar  or 
whipped  cream.    It  is  delicious. — Ms8  L.  A.  C,  Ky. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One  ounce  Coxe's  gelatine,  one  pound  loaf  sugar ;  dissolve  gela- 
tine in  a  pint  boiling  water,  add  sugar  and  a  quart  of  white  wine ; 
stir  mixture  very  hard  and  pour  in  mold ;  when  congealed,  wrap 
mold  in  a  cloth  dipped  in  warm  water,  turn  out  jelly  and  eat  with 
cream. — Mn,  8.  P.  H,^  On, 


MEATS. 


InatteDtion  to  the  temperature  of  the  water  and  too  early  ap- 
plication of  salt  cause  great  waste  in  boiling  meats.  To  make  fresh 
meat  rich  and  nutritious  it  should  be  placed  in  a  kettle  of  bailing 
water  (pure  soft  water  is  best),  skimmed  well  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 
boil  again,  and  placed  where  it  will  slowly  but  constantly  boil.  The 
meat  should  be  occasionally  turned  and  kept  well  under  the  water, 
and  iresh  hot  water  supplied  as  it  evaporates  in  boiling.  Plunging 
in  hot  water  hardens  the  fibrine  on  the  outside,  encasing  and  re- 
taining the  rich  juices — and  the  whole  theory  of  correct  cooking,  in 
a  nut-shell,  is  to  retain  as  much  as  possible  of  the  nutriment  of  food. 
No  salt  should  be  added  until  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  as  it  extracts 
the  juices  of  the  meat  if  added  too  soon.  Boil  gently,  as  rapid 
boiling  hardens  the  fibrine  and  renders  the  meat  hard,  tasteless, 
and  scarcely  more  nutritious  than  leather,  without  really  hafitening 
the  process  of  cooking,  every  degree  of  heat  beyond  the  boiling 
point  being  worse  than  wasted.  There  is  a  pithy  saying:  "The 
pot  should  only  smile,  not  laugh."  The  bubbles  should  appear  in 
one  part  of  the  surface  of  the  water  only,  not  all  over  it  Thife 
differs  from  "simmering,"  as  in  the  latter  there  is  merely  a  sizzling 
on  the  side  of  the  pan.  Salt  meat  should  be  put  on  in  cold  water 
80  that  it  may  freshen  in  cooking.  Allow  twenty  minutes  to  the 
pound  for  fresh,  and  thirty-five  for  salt  meats,  the  time  to  be  modi- 
fied, of  course,  by  the  quality  of  the  meat.  A  pod  of  red  pepper 
in  the  water  will  prevent  the  unpleasant  odor  of  boiling  from  filliixg 

the  house. 
a90) 


MEATS.  191 

proper  is  almost  unknown  in  these  days  of  stoves  and 
ranges — baking,  a  much  inferior  process,  having  taken  its  place.  In 
roasting  the  joint  is  placed  close  to  a  brisk  fire,  turned  so  as  to  ex- 
pose ereiy  part  to  the  heat,  and  then  moved  back  to  finish  in  a 
more  moderate  heat  The  roast  should  be  basted  frequently  with 
the  drippings,  and,  when  half  cooked,  with  salt  and  water. 

To  roast  in  oven,  the  preparations  are  very  simple.  The  fire 
must  be  bright  and  the  oven  hot.  The  roast  will  need  no  washing 
if  it  comes  from  a  cleanly  butcher ;  wiping  with  a  towel  dampened 
in  cold,  water  is  all  that  is  needed ;  if  washing  is  necessary,  dash 
over  quickly  with  cold  water  and  wipe  dry.  If  meat  has  been  kept 
a  little  too  long,  wash  in  vinegar,  wipe  dry,  and  dust  with  a  very 
Utde  floor  to  absorb  the  moisture.  Place  in  pan,  on  a  tripod,  or  two 
or  three  clean  bits  of  wood  laid  cross- wise  of  pan,  to  keep  it  out  of 
the  &t  If  meat  is  very  lean,  add  a  table-spoon  or  two  of  water ; 
if  fat,  the  juices  of  the  meat  will  be  sufiScient,  and  the  addition  of 
the  water  renders  it  juiceless  and  tasteless.  While  the  meat  is  in 
the  oven,  keep  the  fire  hot  and  bright,  baste  several  times,  and  when 
about  half  done  turn  it,  always  keeping  the  thick  part  of  the  meat 
in  the  hottest,  part  of  the  oven.  Take  care  that  every  part  of  the 
roast,  including  the  fat  of  the  tenderloin,  is  cooked  so  that  the  text- 
ure is  chang^. 

If  the  fire  has  been  properly  made,  and  the  roast  is  not  large,  it 
should  not  require  replenishing,  but,  if  necessary,  add  a  little  ^ei 
at  a  time,  so  as  not  to  check  the  fire,  instead  of  waiting  until  a 
great  deal  must  be  added  to  keep  up  the  bright  heat.  Most 
persons  like  roast  beef  and  mutton  underdone,  and  less  time  is  re- 
quired to  cook  them  than  for  pork  and  veal  or  lamb,  which  must  be 
very  well  done.  Fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  and  fifteen  minutes 
longer  is  the  rule  for  beef  and  mutton,  and  twenty  minutes  to 
the  pound  and  twenty  minutes  longer  for  pork,  veal  and  lamb. 
The  directions  for  beef  apply  equally  well  to  pork,  veal,  mutton 
and  lamb.  Underdone  meat  is  cooked  throughout,,  so  that  the 
bright  red  juices  follow  the  knife  of  the  carver ;  if  it  is  a  livid 
purple  it  is  raw,  and  unfit  for  food.  When  done,  the  roast  should 
be  a  rich  brown,  and  the  bottom  of  the  pan  covered  with  a  thick 
ghize.     Bemove  the  joint,  sift  evenly  over  with  fine  salt,iand  it  is 


192  MEATS. 

ready  to  serve.  Never  salt  before  or  while  cooking,  as  it  draws 
out  the  juices.  To  prepare  the  gravy,  pour  off  the  fat  gently, 
holding  the  pan  steadily  so  as  not  to  lose  the  gravy  which  underlies 
it;  put  pan  on  the  stove,  pour  into  it  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
(vary  the  quantity  with  the  size  of  the  roast ;  soup  of  any  kind  b 
better  than  water  if  at  hand),  add  a  little  salt,  stir  with  a  spoon 
until  the  particles  adhering  to  the  sides  of  the  pan  are  removed  and 
dissolved,  making  a  rich,  brown  gravy  (some  mix  flour  and  water, 
and  add  as  thickening). 

In  roasting  all  meats,  success  depends  upon  basting  frequently 
(by  dipping  the  gravy  from  the  pan,  over  the  meat  with  'a  large 
spoon),  turning  often  so  as  to  prevent  burning,  and  carefully  regu- 
lating the  heat  of  the  oven.  Allow  fifteen  to  twenty-five  minutes 
to  the  pound  in  roasting,  according  as  it  is  to  be  rare  or  well  done, 
taking  into  consideration  the  quality  of  the  meat.  Eoasts  prepared 
with  dressing  require  more  time.  In  roasting  meats  many  think  it 
better  not  to  add  any  water  until  the  meat  has  been  in  the  oven 
about  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  begins  to  brown. 

Broiling  is  the  most  wholesome  method  of  cooking  meats,  and  is 
most  acceptable  to  invalids.  Tough  steak  is  made  more  tender  by 
pounding  or  hacking  with  a  dull  knife,  but  some  of  -the  juices  are 
lost  by  the  operation  ;  cutting  it  across  in  small  squares  with  a  Aarp 
knife  on  both  sides  is  better  than  either.  Tough  meats  are  also 
improved  by  laying  for  two  hours  on  a  dish  containing  three  or 
four  table-spoons  each  of  vinegar  and  salad  oil  (or  butter),  a  little 
pepper,  but  no  salt ;  turn  every  twenty  minutes.  The  action  of  the 
oil  and  vinegar  softens  the  fibers  without  extracting  their  juices. 
Trim  off  all  superfluous  fat,  but  never  wash  a  freshly-cut  steak. 
Never  salt  or  pepper  steak  or  chops  before  or  while  cooking,  but  if 
very  lean,  dip  in  melted  butter.  Place  the  steak  on  a  hot,  well- 
greased  gridiron,  turn  often  so  that  the  outside  maybe  seared  at 
once ;  when  done,  which  will  require  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  dish 
on  a  hot  platter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter, 
cover  with,  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once.  A  small  pair  of  tonga 
are  best  U  turn  steaks,  as  piercing  with  a  fork  fi^ees  the  juices.  If 
lat  drips  on  the  coals  below,  the  blaze  may  be  extinguished  by 
sprinkling  with  salt,  always  withdrawing  the  gridiron  to  prevent  the 


MEATS.  193 

Bteak  firom  acquiring  a  smoky  flavor.  Always  have  a  brisk  fire, 
whether  you  cook  in  a  patent  broiler  directly  over  ilie  fire,  or  on  a 
gridiron  over  a  bed  of  live  coals.  Broiling  steak  is  the  very  last 
thing  to  be  done  in  getting  breakfast  or  dinner ;  every  other  dish 
should  be  ready  for  the  table,  so  that  this  may  have  the  cook's  un- 
divided attention.  A  bteel  gridiron  with  slender  bars  is  best,  as  the 
common  broad,  flat  iron  bars  fry  and  scorch  the  meat,  imparting  & 
disagreeable  flavor.  In  using  the  patent  broilers,  such  as  the 
*'  American"  and  the  later  and  better  '*  Dover,''  care  must  be  used 
to  keep  all  doors  and  lids  of  stove  or  range  closed  during  the  pro- 
cess. The  dampers  which  shut  off  the  draft  to  the  chimney  should 
be  thrown  open  before  beginning,  to  take  the  flames  in  that  direc- 
tion. Never  take  the  li J  from  broiler  without  first  removing  it  from 
over  the  fire,  as  the  smoke  and  flames  rush  out  past  the  meat  and 
smoke  it 

Frying  is  properly  cooking  in  fat  enough  to  cover  the  article,  and 
when  the  fat  is  hot,  and  properly  managed,  the  food  is  crisped  at 
the  surface,  and  does  not  absorb  the  fat.  The  process  of  cooking  in 
just  enough  fat  to  prevent  sticking  has  not  yet  been  named  in  Eng- 
lish, and  is  eatdemg^  but  is  popularly  known  as  frying,  and  ought 
to  be  banished  from  all  civilized  kitchens.  The  secret  of  success  in 
fiying  is  what  the  French  call  the  **  surprise."  The  fire  must  be 
hot  enough  to  sear  the  surface  and  make  it  impervious  to  the  fat, 
and  at  the  same  time  seal  up  the  rich  juices.  As  soon  as  the  meat 
is  browned  by  this  sudden  application  of  heat,  the  pan  may  be 
moved  to  a  cooler  place  on  the  stove,  that  the  process  may  be  fin- 
ished more  slowly.  For  instructions  as  to  heating  the  fat,  see  what 
is  said  under  head  of  **  Fritters."  When  improperly  done,  frying 
results  in  an  unwholesome  and  greasy  mess,  unfit  for  food,  but  with 
care,  plenty  of  fat  (which  may  be  used  again  and  again),  and  the 
right  degree  of  heat,  nothing  is  easier  than  to  produce  a  crisp,  de- 
licious, and  healthful  dish. 

To  thaw  frozen  meat,  place  in  a  warm  room  over  night,  or  lay  it 
for  a  few  hours  in  cold  water — the  latter  plan  being  the  best.  The 
ice  which  forms  on  the  surfisu;e  as  it  thaws  is  easily  removed.  If 
cooked  before  it  is  entirely  thawed,  it  will  be  tough.     Meat  once 

frozen  should  not  be  allowed  to  thaw  until  just  before  cooking. 
13 


194  MEATS. 

The  moBt  economical  way  to  cut  a  ham  is  to  slice,  for  the  same 
meal,  from  the  large  end  as  well  as  from  the  thickest  part ;  in  this 
way  a  part  of  best  and  a  part  of  the  less  desirable  is  brought  on, 
and  the  waste  of  the  meal  is  from  the  poorest,  as  the  best  is  eaten 
first.  After  cutting  a  ham,  if  not  to  be  cut  from  again  soon,  rub 
the  cut  side  with  corn  meal ;  this  prevents  the  ham  from  becoming 
rancid,  and  rubs  off  easily  when  the  ham  is  needed  again. 

Beef  in  boiling  loses  rather  more  than  one-quarter ;  in  roasting  it 
loses  one-third ;  legs  of  mutton  lose  one-fifth  in  boiling,  and  one- 
third  in  roasting,  and  a  loin  of  mutton  in  roasting  loses  rather  mors 
than  a  third. 

Beef  suet  may  be  kept  a  long  time  in  a  cool  place  without  freez- 
ing, or  by  burying  it  deep  in  the  fiour  barrel  so  as  to  entirely  ex- 
clude the  air. 

The  garnishes  for  meats  are  parsley,  slices  of  lemon,  sliced  carrot, 
sliced  beets,  and  currant  jelly. 

For  hints  on  buying  meats,  see  '*  Marketing." 

Broiled  Beefsteak. 
Lay  a  thick  tender  steak  upon  a  gridiron  well  greased  with  butter 
or  beef  Muet,  over  hot  coals;  when  done  on  one  side  have  ready  the 
warmed  platter  with  a  little  butter  on  it,  lay  the  steak,  without 
pressing  it,  upon  the  platter  with  the  cooked  side  down  so  that  the 
juices  which  have  gathered  may  run  on  the  platter,  quickly  place  it 
again  on  gridiron,  and  cook  the  other  side.  When  done  to  liking, 
put  on  platter  again,  spread  lightly  with  butter,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  place  where  it  will  keep  warm  (over  boiling  steam 
is  best)  for  a  few  moments,  but  do  not  let  butter  become  oily. 
Serve  on  hot  plates.  Many  prefer  to  sear  on  one  side,  turn  imme« 
diately  and  sear  the  other,  and  finish  cooking,  turning  often ;  gar- 
nish with  fried  sliced  potatoes,  or  with  browned  potato  balls  the  size 
of  a  marble,  piled  at  each  end  of  platter. — Mrs,  W,  TT.  Tf. 

Fried  Beefsteak. 

When  the  means  to  broil  are  not  at  hand,  the  next  best  method 

is  to  heat  the  frying  pan  very  hot,  put  in  steak  previously  hacked, 

let  remain  a  few  moments,  loosen  with  a  knife  and  turn  quickly 

several  times ;  repeat  thb,  and  when  done  transfer  to  a  hot  platter. 


MEATS,  196 

• 

■alt,  pepper,  and  put  over  it  bits  of  butter;  pile  the  steaks  one  on 

top  of  another,  and  cover  with  a  hot  platter.     This  way  of  frying 

18  both  healthful  and  delicate.     Or,  heat  the  skillet,  trim  off  the  fat 

fix>m   the  steak,  cut  in  small  bits  and  set  on  to  frv;  meanwhile 

pound  steak,  then  draw  the  bits  of  suet  to  one  side  and  put  in  the 

steak,  turn  quickly  over  several  times  so  as  to  sear  the  outside,  take 

out  on  a  hot  platter  previously  prepared  with  salt  and   pepper, 

dredge  well,  return  to  skillet,  repeating  the  operation  until  the 

Bteak  is  done;  dish  on  a  hot  platter,  covering  with  another  platter, 

and  place  where  it  ?dll  keep  hot  while  making  the  gravy.     Place  a 

table-spoon  dry  flour  in  the  skillet,  being  sure  to  have  the  fat  boiling 

hot,  stir  until  brown  and  free  from  lumps  (the  bits  of  suet  may  be 

left  in,  drawing  them  tvi  one  side  until  the  flour  is  browned),  pour 

in  about  half  a  pint  boilhig  water  (milk  or  cream  is  better),  stir 

well,  season  with  pepper  and  suit,  and  serve  in  a  gravy  tureen. 

Spread  bits  of  butter  over  steak  and  send  to  table  at  once.     This  is 

more  economical,  but  not  so  wholesome  as  broiling. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions. 

Slice  the  onions  thin  and  drop  in  cold  water:  put  steak  in  pan 
with  a  little  suet.  Skim  out  onions  and  add  to  steak,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  cover  tightly,  and  put  over  the  fire.  When  the 
juice  of  the  onions  has  dried  up,  and  the  meat  has  browned  on  one 
side,  remove  onions,  turn  steak,  replace  onions,  and  fry  till  done* 
being  careful  not  to  bum. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. 

Soak  over  night  if  very  salt,  but  if  beef  is  young  and  properly 
corned  this  is  not  necessary;  pour  over  it  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  it  well,  after  washing  off*  the  salt.  The  rule  for  boiling  meats 
fo  twenty-five  minutes  to  a  pound,  but  corned  beef  should  be  placed 
on  a  part  of  the  stove  or  range  where  it  will  simmer,  not  boil,  un- 
interruptedly from  four  to  six  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
piece.  If  to  be  served  cold,  some  let  the  meat  remain  in  the  liquor 
until  cold,  and  some  let  tough  beef  remain  in  the  liquor  until  the 
next  day,  and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  just  before  serving.  Sim- 
mer a  brisket  or  plate-piece  until  the  bones  are  easily  removed,  fold 
over,  forming  a  square  or  oblong  piece,  place  sufficient. weight  on 


196  MEAT& 

• 

top  to  press  the  parts  closely  together^  and  set  where  it  will  become 
cold.  This  gives  a  firm,  solid  piece  to  cut  in  slices,  and  is  a  delight- 
ful relish.  Boil  liquor  down,  remove  the  fat,  season  with  pepper 
or  sweet  herbs,  and  save  it  to  pour  over  finely  minced  scraps  and 
pieces  of  beef;  press  the  meat  firmly  into  a  mold,  pour  over  it  the 
liquor,  and  place  over  it  a  close  cover  with  a  weight  upon  it.  When 
turned  iroin  the  mold,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or  celery,  and 
serve  with  &ncy  pickles  or  French  mustard. — Mrs,  S,  H.  J. 

Beef  a  La  Mode. 
In  a  piece  of  the  rump,  cut  deep  openings  with  a  sharp  knife ; 
put  in  pieces  of  pork  cut  into  dice,  previously  rolled  in  pepper,  salt, 
cloves  and  nutmeg.  Into  an  iron  stew-pan  lay  pieces  of  pork, 
sliced  onions,  slices  of  lemon,  one  or  two  carrots  and  a  bay-leaf; 
lay  the  meat  on  and  put  over  it  a  piece  of  bread-crust  as  large  as 
the  hand,  a  half-pint  wine  and  a  little  vinegar,  and  afterwards  an 
equal  quantity  of  water  or  broth,  till  the  meat  is  half  covered; 
cover  the  dish  close  and  cook  till  tender.  Then  take  it  out,  rub  the 
gravy  thoroughly  through  a  sieve,  skim  ofi*  the  fiit,  add  some  sour 
cream,  return  to  the  stew-pan  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Instead  of 
the  cream,  capers  or  sliced  cucumber  pickles  can  be  added  to  the 
gravy  if  preferred,  or  a  handful  of  grated  ginger-bread  or  rye 
bread.  The  meat  can  also  be  laid  for  some  days  before  in  a  spiced 
vinegar  or  wine  pickle. — Mrs,  L.  S.  WUlistoriy  Heidelberg,  Oermany, 

Boiled  Beef  Tongue. 
Wash  clean,  put  in  the  pot  with  water  to  cover  it,  a  pint  of  salt, 
and  a  small  pod  of  red  pepper ;  if  the  water  boils  away,  add  more 
so  as  to  keep  the  tongue  nearly  covered  until  done ;  boil  until  it 
can  be  pierced  easily  with  a  fork,  take  out,  and  if  needed  for  pres- 
ent use,  take  off  the  skin  and  set  away  to  cool ;  if  to  be  kept  some 
days,  do  not  peel  until  wanted  for  table.  The  same  amount  of  salt 
will  do  for  three  tongues  if  the  pot  is  large  enough  to  hold  them, 
always  remembering  to  keep  sufficient  water  in  the  kettle  to  cover 
all  while  boiling.  Soak  salt  tongue  over  night,  and  cook  in  same 
way,  omitting  the  salt.  Or,  after  peeling,  place  the  tongue  in  sauce* 
pan  with  one  cup  water,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  four  table-spoop« 
sugar,  and  cook  till  liquor  is  evaporated. — M.  J.  W. 


MEATS.  197 

Baoout  of  Beef. 

For  BIX  pounds  of  the  round,  take  half  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  cut 
op  with  two  or  three  onions  in  a  vessel  with  a  tight  cover,  add  half 
a  dozen  cloves,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  a  little  whole  black  pepper; 
cut  gashes  iu  the  meat,  and  stuff  them  with  half  pound  of  &t  salt 
pork,  cut  into  square  bits ;  place  the  meat  on  the  other  ingredients, 
and  pour  over  them  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  aud  a  cup  of  water; 
cover  tightly,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  cook  slowly  four  or  five 
hours,  and,  when  about  half  done,  salt  to  taste.  When  done,  take 
oat  the  meat,  strain  the  gravy  through  a  colander  and  thicken  with 
flour. — Mrs,  D.   W.  R,,   WaahingUm  City. 

Roast  Beef  with  Pudding. 
Bake  exactly  as  directed  for  ordinary  roast  for  the  table ;  then 
make  a  Yorkshire  pudding,  to  eat  like  vegetables  with  the  roost,  as 
foUows:  For  every  pint  of  milk  take  three  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  stir  to  a  smooth  batter,  and  pour  into  the  drip- 
ping-pan under  the  meat,  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done. — Mrs,  C 

T,  Carson. 

Roast  Beef. 

Take  a  rib-piece  or  loin-roast  of  seven  to  eight  pounds.  Beat  it 
thoroughly  all  over,  lay  it  in  the  roasting  dish  and  baste  it  with 
melted  butter.  Put  it  inside  the  well-heated"  oven,  and  baste  fre- 
quently with  its  own  fiit,  which  will  make  it  brown  and  tender.  If, 
when  it  is  cooking  fast,  the  gravy  is  growing  too  brown,  turn  a 
glass  of  Grerman  cooking  wine  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and 
repeat  this  as  often  as  the  gravy  cooks  away.  The  roast  needs 
about  two  hours  time  to  be  done,  and  must  be  brown  outside  but 
inside  still  a  little  red.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice  over  it,  and  also  turn  the  gravy  upon  it,  after 
skimming  ofi^  all  fat. — Mrs.  L.  S.   Willis^,  Heidelberg ,  Germany. 

A  Brown  Stew. 
Put  on  stove  a  rather  thick  piece  of  beef  with  little  bone  and 
some  fet;  four  hours  before  needed,  pour  on  just  boUing  water 
enough  to  cover,  cover  with  a  close-fitting  lid,  boil  gently,  and  as 
the  water  boils  away  add  only  just  enough  from  time  to  time  to 
keep  from  burning,  so  that  when  the  meat  is  tender,  the  water  may 


198  MEATS. 

all  be  boiled  away,  as  the  fat  will  allow  the  meat  to  brown  without 
burning ;  turn  occasionally,  brown  evenly  over  a  slow  fire,  and  make 
a  gravy,  by  stirring  flour  and  water  together  and  adding  to  the 
drippings ;  season  with  salt  an  hour  before  it  is  done. — Mrs.  Geba 
Hull 

Stewed  Beef. 

Take  a  piece  of  the  rump,  pound  it  till  tender,  lay  in  an  iron 
ver^sel  previously  lined  with  slices  of  pork  and  onions,  with  a  few 
pepper-corns,  dredge  it  with  salt,  and  baste  with  melted  butter. 
Cover  close,  over  a  good  heat,  and  when  it  has  fried  a  nice  brown, 
add  one  pint  German  cooking  wine  and  as  much  more  good  soup 
stock,  and  stew  it  till  soft.  Before  serving,  take  out  the  meat,  skim 
off  the  fat,  add  a  table-8i)Oon  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with  broth,  add 
gradually  still  more  broth,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  and  turn  over  the 
previously  dished  meat.  The  meat  can  be  laid  for  some  days  before 
in  vinegar,  or  in  a  spiced  pickle,  or  be  basted  with  either  occasionally 
instead  of  lying  in  it. 

Spiced  Beef  Tongue. 

Rub  into  the  tongue  a  mixture  of  half  a  pint  of  sugar,  a  piece 
of  saltpeter  the  size  of  a  pea,  and  a  table-spcjon  of  ground  cloves ; 
immerse  it  in  a  brine  made  of  three-fourths  pound  salt  to  two  quarts 
water,  taking  care  that  it  is  kept  covered ;  let  lie  two  weeks,  take 
out,  wash  well,  and  dry  with  a  cloth ;  roll  out  a  thin  paste  made  of 
flour  and  water,  wrap  the  tongue  in  it,  and  put  it  in  pan  to  bake ; 
bake  slowly,  basting  well  with  lard  and  water ;  when  done,  remove 
paste  and  skin,  and  serve. 

Fried  Liver. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  and  place  on  a  platter,  pour  on  boiling  water 
and  immediately  pour  it  off  (this  seals  the  outside,  takes  away  the 
unpleasant  flavor,  and  makes  it  much  more  palatable) ;  have  ready 
in  skillet  on  the  stove,  some  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings,  or  both 
together,  dredge  the  liver  with  rolled  crackers  or  dried  bread- 
crumbs  rolled  fine  and  nicely  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  put 
in  skillet,  placing  the  tin  cover  on,  fry  slowly  until  both  sides  are 
dark-brown,  when  the  liver  will  be  thoroughly  cooked.  The  tim6 
required  is  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


MEATS.  199 

Larded  Livek. 

Lard  a  calf's  liver  with  bacon  or  ham,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, tie  a  cord  around  the  liver  to  keep  in  shape,  put  in  a  kettle 
with  one  quart  of  cold  water,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  one 
onion  chopped  fine,  and  one  teaspoon  sweet  marjoram ;  let  simmer 
slowly  for  two  hours,  pour  off  gravy  into  gravy -dish,  and  brown  liver 
in  kettle.  Serve  with  the  ^ravy. — Mrs.  E,  L.  Fay,  Washington 
Heights,  New  York  OUy. 

Fried  Tripe. 

Dredge  with  flour,  or  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  hot 
butter,  or  other  fat,  until  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides,  ]ay  it  on  a 
dish,  add  vinegar  to  the  gravy,  and  pour  over  the  tripe  (or  the 
vinegar  may  be  omitted,  and  the  gravy  added,  or  the  tripe  may  be 
served  without  vinegar  or  gravy).  Or  make  a  batter  by  mixing 
gradually  one  cup  of  flour  with  one  of  sweet  milk,  then  add  an  egg 
well  beaten  and  a  little  salt ;  drain  the  iripe,  dip  in  Imtter,  and  fry 
in  hot  drippings  or  lard.  Salt  pork  and  pig's-feet  may  be  cooked 
by  the  same  rule.     In  buying  tripe  get  the  **  honey-combed." 

To  fricassee  tripe,  cut  it  in  narrow  strips,  add  water  or  milk  to  it, 

and  a  good  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  season  with  pepper  and  a 

little  salt,  let  simmer  slowly  for  some  time,  and  serve  hot  garnished 

with  parsley. 

Soused  'I'^ipe. 

After  preparing  it  according  to  directions  in  **  How  to  cut  and 
cure  meats,"  place  in  a  stone  jar  in  layers,  seasoning  every  layer 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  boiling  vinegar,  in  which,  if 
desired,  a  few  whole  cloves,  a  sprinkle  of  mace,  and  a  stick  of 
cinnamon  have  been  boiled ;  or  cover  with  the  jelly  or  liquor  in 
which  the  tripe  was  boiled.  When  wanted  for  table,  take  out  of 
jar,  scrape  off  the  liquid,  and  either  broil,  fricassee,  fry  in  butter, 
or  flpy  plain. — Mrs.  ELiza  T.  Carson^  Mt.  Pleasant  Farm. 

TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

Mix  one  pint  flour  and  one  egg  with  milk  enough  to  make  a  bat* 
ter  (like  that  for  batter-cakes),  and  a  little  salt;  grease  dish  well 
with  butter,  put  in  lamb  chops,  add  a  little  water  with  pepper  and 
lalt,  pour  batter  over  it,  and  bake  for  one  hour. 


200  MEATS. 

Boiled  Mutton  with  Caper  Sauce. 

Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  throw  in  a  handful  of 
salt ;  wash  a  leg  of  mutton  and  rub  salt  through  it.  If  it  is  to  be 
rare,  cook  about  two  hours;  if  well  done,  three  hours  or  longer, 
according  to  size.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  thicken  with  flour  well 
blended,  add  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  two  table-spoons  of  capers,  or 
mint  sauce  if  preferred. — 3/r«.  E.  L.  F, 

Lamb  Stewed  with  Pease. 

Cut  the  neck  or  breast  in  pieces,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  some 

salt  pork  sliced  thin,  and  enough  water  to  cover  it;  cover  close  and 

•let  stew  until  the  meat  is  tender,  then  skim  free  from  scum,  add  a 

quart  of  green  pease  shelled,  and  more  hot  water,  if  necessary ; 

cover  till  the  pease  are  done  tender,  then  add  a  bit  of  butter  rolled 

in  flour,  and  pepper  to  taste ;  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes  and 

serve. 

Mutton  Chops. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  skillet,  cover  closely,  and  fiy 
^Vii  minutes,  turning  over  once ;  dip  each  chop  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  till  tender  or  nicely  browned  on 
each  side;  or  put  in  oven  in  a  dripping-pan,  with  a  little  water, 
salt  and  pepper;  baste  frequently  and  bake  until  brown.  To  broil 
lamb  chop:?,  trim  neatly,  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve  with  green  pease. 

Leg  of  Mutton  a  la  Venison. 
Remove  all  rough  fat  from  a  leg  of  mutton,  lay  in  a  deep 
earthen  dish,  and  rub  into  the  meat  very  thoroughly  the  following 
mixture:  One  table-sp(X)n  salt,  one  each  of  celery,  salt,  brown 
sugar,  black  pepper,  made  mustard,  allspice,  and  sweet  herbs  mixed 
and  powdered.  After  these  have  been  rubl)ed  into  all  parts  of 
meat,  pour  over  it  slowly  a  tea-cup  good  vinegar,  cover  tightly  and 
set  in  a  cool  place  for  four  or  ^wq  days,  turning  ham,  and  basting 
it  with  liquid  three  or  four  times  a  day.  To  cook,  leave  in  a  clean 
kettle  a  quart  boiling  water,  have  in  kettle  an  inverted  tin-pan  or 
rack  made  for  the  purpose ;  on  it  lay  ham  just  as  taken  out  of 
pickle ;  cover  kettle  tightly,  and  stew  for  four  hours.  Do  not  allow 
water  to  touch  the  meat.    Add  a  tea-cup  of  hot  water  to  the  pickle* 


MEATS.  201 

and  baste  the  ham  mth  it.  When  ready  to  serve,  thicken  the 
liquid  in  the  kettle  with  flour,  strain  through  a  fine  strainer,  and 
serve  the  meat  with  it  and  a  relish  of  currant  jelly. 

Frogs. 

Frogs  may  be  broiled,    or  made  into  a  fricassee  seasoned  with 

tomato  catsup.      The  hind  legs  alone  are  eaten,  and  are  a  great 

delicacy. 

Fricatelu. 

Chop  raw  fresh  pork  very  fine,  add  a  little  salt,  plenty  of  pepper, 

and  two  small  onions  chopped  fine,  half  as  much  bread  as  there  is 

meat,  soaked  until  soft,  two  eggs ;  mix  well  together,  make  into 

oblong  patties,  and  fry  like  oysters.      These  are  nice  for  breakfast; 

if  used  for  supper,  serve  with  sliced  lemon. — Mrs.  W,  F.  WUcox. 

Boned  Ham. 

Having  soaked  a  well-cured  ham  in  tepid  water  over  night,  boil 

it  till  perfectly  tender,  putting  it  on  in  warm  water ;  take  up  in  a 

wooden  tray,  let  cool,  remove  bone  carefully,  press  the  ham  again 

into  shape,  return  to  boiling  liquor,  remove  pot  from  fire,  and  let 

the  ham  remain  in  it  till  cold.     Cut  across  and  serve  cold. — Miss 

L.  L,  Richmond. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  stand  until  cool  enough  to  wash, 

scrape  clean  (some  have  a  coarse  hair-brush  on  purpose  for  cleaning 

hams),  put  in  a  thoroughly  cleansed  boiler  with  cold  water  enougn 

to  cover;  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  then  place  on  back  part  of 

stove  to  simmer  steadily  for  six  or  seven  hours  or  till  tender  when 

pierced  with  a  fork  (if  the  ham  weighs  twelve  pounds) ;  be  care- 

ful  to  keep  water  at  boiling  point,  and  not  to  allow  it  to  go  much 

above  it     Turn  the  ham  once  or  twice  in  the  water ;  when  done 

take  up  and  put  into  a  baking-pan  to  skin ;  dip  the  hands  in  cold 

water,  take  the  skin  between  the  fingers  and  peel  as  you  would  an 

orange;   set  in   a  moderate  oven,  placing  the  leab  side  of  the  ham 

downward,  and  if  you  like,  sift  over  pounded  or  rolled  crackers ; 

bake  one  hour.      The  baking  brings  out  a  great  quantity  of  fat, 

leaving  the  meat  much  more  delicate,  and  in  warm  weather  it  will 

keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place  a  long  time ;  if  there  is  a  tendency  to  mold, 

set  it  a  little  while  into  the  oven  again.    Or,  after  the  ham  is  boiled 


20S  MEATS, 

and  peeled,  eover  with  the  white  of  a  raw  egg,  and  sprinkle  sugar 
or  fine  bread-crumrbs  over  it ;  or  eover  with  a  regular  cake-icing, 
plaee  in  the  oven  and  brown ;  or,  quarter  two  onions,  stick  whole 
allspioe  and  black  pepper  in  the  quarters,  with  a  knife  make  slits 
in  the  outside  of  the  ham  in  which  put  the  onions,  place  in  dripping- 
pan,  lay  parsley  around,  and  bake  till  nicely  browned.  Or,  after 
boiling  and  peeling,  dust  with  sugar,  and  pass  a  hot  knife  over  it 
until  it  forms  a  caramel  glaze,  and  serve  without  baking.  A  still  ' 
nicer  way  is  to  glaze  with  strong  meat  jelly  or  any  savory  jelly  at 
hand,  boiled  down  rapidly  (taking  great  care  to  prevent  burning) 
until  it  is  like  glue.  Brush  this  jelly  over  the  ham  when  cool,  and 
it  makes  it  an  elegant  dish.  The  nicest  portion  of  a  boiled  ham 
may  be  served  in  slices,  and  the  ragged  parts  and  odds  and  ends 
chopped  fine  for  sandwiches,  or  by  adding  three  eggs  to  one  pint 
of  chopped  ham  a  delicious  omelet  may  be  made.  If  the  ham  is 
very  salt,  it  should  lie  in  water  over  night 

Broiled  Ham. 
Cut  the  ham  in  slices  of  medium  thickness,  place  on  a  hot  grid- 
iron, and  broil  until  the  hX  readily  flows  out  and  the  meat  is  slightly 
browned,  take  from  the  gridiron  with  a  knife  and  fork,  drop  into  a 
pan  of  cold  water,  then  return  again  to  the  gridiron,  repeat  several 
times,  and  the  ham  is  done ;  place  in  a  hot  platter,  add  a  few  lumps 
of  butter,  and  serve  at  once.  If  too  fiit,  trim  ofi*  a  part ;  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  broil  the  fat  part  without  burning,  but  this  does  not 
impair  the  taste.  Pickled  pork  and  breakilEist  bacon  may  be  broiled 
in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Brand, 

Delicious  Pried  Ham. 
Place  the  slices  in  boiling  water  and  cook  till  tender;  put  in  fry- 
ing-pan and  brown,  and  dish  on  a  platter;  fry  some  eggs  by  dripping 
gravy  over  them  until  done,  instead  of  turning ;  take  up  careAiUy  and 
lay  them  on  the  slices  of  ham. — Mn.  J.  F.  W 

Baked  Piq. 
Take  a  pig  about  six  weeks  old,  nicely  prepared,  score  in  squares, 
and  rub  lard  all  over  it;  make  a  dressing  of  two  quarts  of  com 
meal  salted  as  if  for  bread,  and  mix  to  a  stiff  bread  with  boiling 
water;  make  into  pans  and  bake.  After  this  is  baked  brown,  break 
it  up,  and  add  to  it  one-fourth  pound  of  butter,  pepper  to  taste. 


MEATS.  208 

and  thyme.     Fill  the  pig  till  plump,  sew  it  up,  and  place  it  on  its 

knees  in  the   pan,  which  fill  with  as  much  water  as  will  cook  it. 

Baste  it  very  frequently  with  the  gravy,  also  two  red  pepper  pods. 

Turn  while  baking  same  as  turkey,  and  continue  to  baste  till  done. 

8ome  use  turkey-dressing  instead  of  above. — Mn.  M,  L.  Blanton, 

NcuhviUe^  Tenn. 

Spar£>-rib  Pot-pie. 

Cut  the  spare-ribs  once  across  and  then  in  strips  three  or  four 
uiches  wide,  put  on  in  kettle  with  hot  water  enough  to  cover,  stew 
until  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  turn  out  of  kettle ; 
replace  a  layer  of  spare-ribs  in  the  bottom,  add  a  layer  of  peeled 
potatoes  (quartered  if  large),  some  bits  of  butter,  some  small  squares 
of  baking-powder  dough  rolled  quite  thin,  season  again,  then  another 
layer  of  spare-ribs,  and  so  on  until  the  kettle  is  two-thirds  full, 
leaving  the  squares  of  crust  for  the  last  layer ;  then  add  the  liquor 
in  which  the  spare-ribs  were  boiled,  and  hot  water  if  needed,  cover, 
boil  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  being  careful  to  add  hot  water 
BO  as  not  to  let  it  boil  dry.     The  crust  can  be  made  of  light  biscuit 
dough,  without  egg  or  sugar,  as  follows:  Boll  thin,  cut  out,  let  rise, 
and  use  for  pie,  remembering  to  have  plenty  of  water  in  the  kettle, 
80  that  when  the  pie  is  made  and  the  cover  on,  it  need  not  be  re- 
moved  until  dished.     If,  after  taking  up,  there  is  not  sufficient 
gravy,  add  hot  water  and  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together ;  season 
to  taste,  and  serve.     To  warm  over  pot-pie,  sec  u  in  a  dnppmg-pan 
in  the  oven,  add  lumps  of  butter  with  gravy  or  hot  water ;  more 
squares  of  dough  may  be  laid  on  the  top. — Mn,  W.  W.  W. 

PiGS*-PEET  Souse. 
Cut  off  the  homy  parts  of  feet  and  toes,  scrape,  clean,  and  wash 
thoroughly,  singe  off  the  stray  hairs,  place  in  a  kettle  with  plenty 
of  water,  boil,  skim,  pour  off  water  and  add  fresh,  and  boil  until  the 
bones  will  pull  out  easily ;  do  not  bone,  but  pack  in  a  stone  jar  with 
pepper  and  salt  sprinkled  between  each  layer;  cover  with  good 
cider  vinegar.  When  wanted  for  the  table,  take  out  a  sufficient 
quantity,  put  in  a  hot  skillet,  add  more  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper 
tf  needed,  boil  until  thoroughly  heated,  stir  in  a  smooth  thicken- 
ing of  flour  and  water,  and  boil  until  flour  is  cooked ;  serve  hot  as 
a  nice  breakfast  dish.     Or,  when  the  feet  have  boiled  until  perfectly 


204  MEATS. 

tender,  remove  the  bones  and  pack  in  stone  jar  as  above ;  slice 
down  cold  when  wanted  for  use.  Let  the  liquor  in  which  the  feet  are 
boiled  stand  over  night ;  in  the  morning  remove  the  fat  and  pre- 
pare and  preserve  for  use  as  directed  in  the  Medical  Department 

Pia's-HEAD  Cheese. 
Having  thoroughly  cleaned  a  hog's  or  pig's  head,  split  it  in  two, 
take  out  the  eyes  and  the  brain;  clean  the  ears,  throw  scalding 
water  over  the  head  and  ears,  then  scrape  them  well ;  when  very 
clean,  put  in  a  kettle  with  water  to  cover  it,  and  set  it  over  a  rathei 
quick  fire ;  skim  it  as  any  scum  rises ;  when  boiled  so  that  the  flesh 
leaves  the  bones,  take  it  from  the  water  with  a  skimmer  into  a  larg6 
wooden  bowl  or  tray ;  then  take  out  every  particle  of  bone,  chop  the 
meat  fine,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  (a  little  pounded 
sage  may  be  added),  spread  a  cloth  over  the  colander,  put  the  meat 
in,  fold  cloth  closely  over  it,  lay  a  weight  on  it  so  that  it  may  press 
the  whole  surface  equally  (if  it  be  lean  use  a  heavy  weight,  if  &t, 
a  lighter  one)  ;  when  cold  take  off  weight,  remove  from  colander, 
and  place  in  crock.  Some  add  vinegar  in  proportion  of  one  pint  to 
a  gallon  crock.  Clarify  the  &.t  from  the  cloth,  colander,  and  liquor 
of  the  pot,  and  use  for  frying. 

Fried  Porkbteaks. 
Fry  like  beefiteaks,  with  pepper  and  salt ;  or  sprinkle  with  dry 
powdered  sage  if  the  sausage  flavor  is  liked. — Mr%.  B.  A.  Fay. 

Fried  Salx*  Pork. 
Cut  in  rather  thin  slices,  and  freshen  by  lettbg  lie  an  hour  or  two 
in  cold  water  or  milk  and  water,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  till  crisp  (}f 
in  a  hurry,  pour  boiling  water  on  the  slices,  let  stand  a  few  minutes, 
drian,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  as  before)  ;  drain  off  most  of  the  grease 
from  frying-pan,  sdr  in  while  hot  one  or  two  table-spoons  of  flour, 
about  half  a  pint  new  milk,  a  little  pepper,  and  salt  if  not  salt 
enough  already  from  the  meat ;  let  boil  and  pour  into  gravy  dish. 
This  makes  a  nice  white  gravy  when  properly  made. 

BoABT  Pork. 
A  small  loin  of  pork,  three  table-spoons  bread-crumbs,  one  onion, 
half  a  tea-spoob  chopped  sage,  half  tea-spoon  salt,  half  tea-spoon 
pepper,  one  ounce  chopped  suety  one  table-spoon  drippings.     Sepa- 


MEATS.  206 

rate  each  joint  of  the  loin  with  the  chopper,  and  then  make  an  in- 
<usion  with  a  knife  into  the  thick  part  of  the  pork  in  which  to  put 
the  stuffing.  Prepare  the  stuffing  by  mixing  the  bread-crumbs 
together  with  the  onion,  which  must  have  previously  been  finely 
chopped.  Add  to  this  the  sage,  pepper,  salt  and  suet,  and  when  all 
is  thoroughly  mixed,  press  the  mixture  snugly  into  the  incision 
already  made  in  the  pork,  and  sew  together  the  edges  of  the  meat 
with  needle  and  thread,  to  confine  the  stuffing.  Grease  well  a  shet  t 
of  kitchen  paper,  with  drippings,  place  the  loin  into  this,  securing 
it  with  a  wrapping  of  twine.  Put  to  bake  in  a  dry  baking-pan,  in 
a  brisk  oven,  basting  immediately  and  constantly  as  the  grease  draws 
out,  and  roast  a  length  of  time,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  the 
pound  and  twenty  minutes  longer.  Serve  with  apple>sauce  or  apple- 
fritters. — Miss  M.  L,  Dods. 

Roast  8par£-rib. 
Trim  off  the  rough  ends  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across  the  middle, 
rub  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  fold  over,  stuff  with  turkey- 
dressing,  sew  up  tightly,  place  in  dripping-pan  with  pint  of  water, 
baste  frequently,  turning  over  once  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  equaUy 
antil  a  rich  brown. 

Yankee  Pork  and  Beans. 
Pick  over  carefully  a  quart  of  beans  and  let  them  soak  over 
night ;  in  the  morning  wash  and  drain  in  another  water,  put  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda ;  boil  about  thirty 
minutes  (when  done  the  skin  of  a  bean  will  crack  if  taken  out  and 
blown  upon),  drain,  and  put  in  an  earthen^pot  first  a  slice  of  pork 
and  then  the  beans,  with  two  or  three  tablenspoons  of  molasses. 
When  the  beans  are  ip  the  pot,  put  in  the  center  half  or  three, 
fi>urths  of  a  pound  of  well-washed  salt  pork  with  the  rind  scored  in 
slices  or  squares,  and  uppermost,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  if 
needed ;  cover  all  with  hot  water,  and  bake  six  hours  or  longer  in 
a  moderate  oven,  adding  hot  water  as  needed ;  they  can  not  be 
baked  too  long.  Keep  covered  so  that  they  will  not  bum  on  the 
top,  but  remove  cover  an  hour  or  two  before  serving,  to  brown  the 
top  and  crisp  the  pork.  This  is  the  Yankee  dish  for  Sunday  breakiast 
It  is  often  baked  the  day  before,  allowed  to  remain  in  the  oven  all 


^  MEATS, 

night,  and  browned  in  the  morning.     Serve  in  the  dish  in  which 

they  are  cooked,  and  always  have  enough  left  to  know  the  luxury 

of  cold  beans,  or  baked  beans  warmed  over.     If  salt  pork  is  too 

robust  for  the  appetites  to  be  served,  season  delicately  with  salt, 

pepper,  and  a  little  butter,  and  roast  a  fresh  spare-rib  to  serve  with 

them. 

Fried  Veal  Cutlets. 

Make  a  batter  of  half  pint  of  milk,  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  flour; 
fry  the  veal  brown  in  sweet  lard  or  beef-drippings,  dip  it  in  the 
batter  and  fry  again  till  brown ;  drop  some  spoonfuls  of  batter  in 
the  hot  lard  after  the  veal  is  taken  up,  and  serve  them  on  top  of 
the  meat ;  put  a  little  flour  paste  in  the  gravy  with  salt  and  pepper^ 
let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  it  over  the  whole.    The  veal  should 
be  cut  thin,  pounded,  and  cooked  nearly  an  hour.     Cracker  crumbs 
and  egg  may  be  used  instead  of  batter,  but  the  skillet  should  then 
be  kept  covered,  and  the  veal  cooked  slowly  for  half  lUi  hour  over 
a  moderate  fire.     If  a  gravy  is  wanted  sprinkle  a  little  flour  in  the 
pan,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  water,  let  come  to  a  boil,  and 
pour  over  the  cutlets ;  or,  pound  well,  squeeze  juice  of  lemon  over 
the  slices,  let  stand  an  hour  or  two,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in 
fine  bread-crumbs  (if  no  stale  bread  is  at  hand  dry  slices  in  a  cool 
oven),  plunge  at  once  into  hot  fat  enough  to  cover.     The  slices  wiU 
brown  before  they  are  thoroughly  cooked,  and  the  pan  should   be 
drawn  aside  to  a  cooler  place  to  '*  finish"  more  slowly. 

Fish  may  be  fried  in  the  same  way;  when  done  the  meat  will  sep- 
arate readily  from  the  bone  when  a  knife  is  inserted.  They  may  be 
dipped  in  milk  and  tlsn  in  flour,  instead  of  in  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs ;  sift  salt  evenly  over  the  meat  or  fish  just  before  serving. 
The  bread-crumbs  should  be  fine;  if  coarse,  they  crumble  ofi"  with 

the  egg  in  cooking. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Chop  fine  three  pounds  of  leg  or  loin  of  veal  and  three-fourths 
pound  salt  pork,  chopped  finely  together;  roll  one  dozen  crackers, 
put  half  of  them  in  the  veal  with  two  eggs,  season  with  pepper  and 
a  little  salt  if  needed;  mix  all  together  and  make  into  a  solid  fi^rm; 
then  take  the  crackers  that  are  left  and  spread  smoothly  over  the 
outside ;  bake  one  hour,  and  eat  cold. — Oov.  Tilden,  N,  Y. 


MEATS.  207 

Boast  Loin  op  Veal. 

Wash  and  rub  thoroughly  with  salt  and  pepper,  leaving  m  the 
iddnej,  around  which  put  plenty  of  salt;  roll  up,  let  stand  two 
hours ;  in  the  meantime  make  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  chopped  parsley  or   thyme  moistened   with  a  little  hot 
water  and  butter — some  prefer  chopped  salt  pork — also  add  an  egg. 
Unroll  the  veal,  put  the  dressing  well  around  the  kidney,  fold,  and 
secure  well  with  several  yards  white  cotton  twine,  covering  the 
meat  in  all  directions;    place  in  the  dripping-pan  with  the  thick 
aide   down,  put  to  bake  in  a  rather   hot  oven,  graduating  it  to 
moderate  heat  afterward ;  in  half  an  hour  add  a  little  hot  water  to 
the  pan,  baste  often ;  in  another  half  hour  turn  over  the  roast,  and 
when  nearly  done,  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  baste  with  melted 
batter.     Before  serving,  carefully  remove  the  twine.     A  four-pound 
roast  thus  prepared  will  bake  thoroughly  tender  in  about  two  hours. 
To  make  the  gravy,  skim  off  fat  if  there  is  too  much  in  the  drippings, 
dredge  some  flour  in  the  pan,  stir  until  it  browns,  add  some  hot 
water  if  necessary,  boil  a  few  moments  and  serve  in  gravy-boat. 
This  roast  is  very  nice  to  slice  down  cold   for  Sunday  dinners. 
Serve  with  green  pease  and  lemon  jelly. 

Stewed  Kidney. 

Boil  kidneys  the  night  before  till  very  tender,  turn  meat  and 
gravy  into  a  dish  and  cover  over.  In  the  morning,  boil  for  a  few 
moments,  thicken  with  flour  and  water,  add  part  of  an  onion  chopped 
very  fine,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  lump  of  butte^and  pour  over  toasted 
broad  well  buttered. — Mrs.  E.  L.  F. 

Veal  Stew. 

Boil  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  the  breast  of  veal  one  hour  in 
water  enough  to  cover,  add  a  dozen  potatoes,  and  cook  half  an  hour ; 
before  taking  off  the  stove,  add  one  pint  of  milk  and  flour  enough 
to  thicken ;  season  to  taste.  If  preferred,  make  a  crust  as  for 
chicken-pie,  bake  in  two  pie-pans,  place  one  of  the  crusts  on  tlie 
platter,  pour  over  the  stew,  and  place  the  other  on  top. — KaJte  Thomp- 
Wij  JliIiBerAurg,  Ky. 


208  MEATS. 

Sweet-Bbeadb. 

These  are  great  delicacies.  There  are  two  in  a  calf,  one  from 
neck  called  *'  throat  sweet-bread,"  the  other  firom  near  the  heart 
called  ''heart  sweet-bread."  The  latter  is  most  delicate.  Select 
the  largest  The  color  should  be  clear  and  a  shade  darker  than  the 
&t  Before  cooking  let  the  sweet- breads  lie  for  half  an  hour  in 
lukewarm  water,  then  throw  into  boiliiig  water  to  blanch  and 
harden,  and  then  into  cold  water  to  cool ;  after  which  draw  off  the 
outer  casing,  remove  the  little  pipes,  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Sweet- 
breads do  not  keep  well,  and  should  be  fresh,  and  must  be  kept  in 
a  cold,  dry  place.  They  should  be  thoroughly  cooked.  In  lard- 
ing sweet-bread,  take  deep,  long  stitches,  or  they  will  break  out. 

To  broil,  prepare  as  above,  spread  plenty  of  butter  over  them» 
and  broil  on  a  gridiron  over  hot  coals,  turning  often. 

To  fricassee,  cut  up  the  remnant  of  a  cooked  sweet-bread  in  small 
pieces,  prepare  a  gravy  by  melting  two  table-spoons  butter  and 
stirring  in  a  table-spoon  flour,  and  adding  a  tea-cup  of  soup  stock 
or  water;  lay  pieces  of  sweet-bread  in  pan  with  gravy,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  boil  up  once.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  or 
pieces  of  fried  bread.  If  sweet-breads  are  fresh,  cut  into  thin  slices, 
let  simmer  slowly  in  the  gravy  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and 
add  a  well-beaten  egg,  two  table-spoons  cream,  and  a  spoonful 
chopped  parsley ;  stir  all  together  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

To  fry,  parboil  five  minutes,  wipe  dry,  lard  with  narrow  stripe  of 
salt  fat  pork  with  a  larding-needle,  put  a  very  little  butter  or  lard 
into  a  frying-pan,  lay  m  the  sweet-breads  when  it  is  hot,  and  fry  to 
a  crisp  brown,  turning  often.  Or,  slice  thin,  sprinkle  over  grated 
nutmeg  and  chopped  parsley,  dip  into  a  batter  made  of  one  cup 
milk,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  half  tea- 
spoon baking-powder,  and  fry  like  fritters. 

To  roast,  parboil  large  ones,  and,  when  cold,  lard  yrith  salt  pork 
as  above.  Boast  brown  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  often  with 
butter  and  water.  Serve  with  white  sauce  or  tomato  sauce  poured 
over  them.  For  sweet-breads  with  green  pease,  lard  five  sweet-breads 
with  strips  of  salt  pork  (project  evenly  about  half  an  inch  on  the 
upper  side),  put  on  the  fire  with  a  half  pint  water,  and  let  stew 


MEA!n8.  209 

alowly  for  half  an  hour,  take  out  and  put  in  a  small  dripping-pan 
with  a  little  butter  and  a  sprinkle  of  flour ;  brown  slightly,  add  half 
a  gill  of  mingled  milk  and  water,  and  sea^n  with  pepper ;  heat  a 
half  pint  of  cream,  and  stir  it  in  the  gravy  in  the  pan.  Have  pease 
ready  boiled  and  seasoned,  place  the  sweet-breads  in  the  center  of 
the  disb,  pour  the  gravy  over  them,  and  put  pease  around  them. 

Veal  with  Oysters. 

Fry  two  pounds  tender  veal  cut  in  thin  bits,  and  dredged  witli 

flour,  in  sufficient  hot  lard  to  prevent  sticking ;  when  nearly  done 

add  one  and  a  half  pints  of  fine  oysters,  thicken  with  flour,  season 

with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  done.    Serve  hot  in  covered  dish. 

Stuffed  Heart. 

Take  a  beeFs  or  sheep's  or  veal's  heart,  wash  deeply  and  thoroughly 
80  as  to  remove  all  blood,  make  the  two  cells  into  one  by  cutting 
through  the  partition  with  a  long,  sharp  knife,  being  careful  not  to 
cut  through  to  the  outside ;  make  a  stufling  of  bread  crumbs  same 
as  for  roast  turkey,  fill  the  cavity,  cover  with  greased  paper  or  cloth 
to  secure  stuffing,  and  bake  in  a  deep  pan  with  plenty  of  water,  for 
two  hours  or  longer,  basting  and  turning  often,  as  the  upper  part 
particularly  is  apt  to  get  dry.  While  heart  is  roasting,  put  the  valves 
or  ^*  deaf  ears,"  which  must  be  cut  ofl*  after  washing,  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  pint  of  cold  water  and  a  sliced  onion.  Let  simmer  slowly 
one  hour ;  melt  in  saucepan  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  a  tablespoon 
flour,  then  the  strained  liquor  from  valves,  and  serve  as  gravy. 

Veal  or  Chicken  pot-pie. 

Put  two  or  three  pounds  veal  (a  piece  widi  ribs  is  .good),  cut  in  a 
dozen  pieces,  in  a  quart  of  cold  water ;  make  a  quart  of  soda-bis- 
cuit dough,  take  two-thirds  of  dongh,  roll  to  a  fourth  of  an  inch 
thick,  cut  in  strips  one  inch  wide  by  three  long ;  pare  and  slice  six 
potatoes ;  boil  veal  till  tender,  take  out  all  but  three  or  four  pieces, 
put  in  two  handfuls  of  potatoes  and  several  strips  of  dough,  then 
add  pieces  of  veal  and  dough,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
little  butter,  until  all  the  veal  is  in  pot ;  add  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover,  take  rest  of  dough,  roll  out  to  size  of  ])ot,  cut  several  holes 
to  let  steam  escape,  and  place  over  the  whole.  Put  on  a  tight  lid 
and  boil  (gently)  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  mthovt  uncovering. 

14 


PASTRY. 


Butter  or  lard  for  pastry  should  be  sweet,  fresh  and  solid. 
When  freshly-made  butter  can  not  be  had,  wash  well,  kneading 
while  under  cold  water,  changing  the  water  t\vo  or  three  times,  and 
then  wiping  dry  with  a  napkin.  The  board  on  which  the  butter  is 
rolled  should  be  hard  and  smooth,  and  never  used  for  any  other 
purpose. 

A  very  nice  paste  for  family  use  may  be  made  by  reducing  the 
quantity  of  shortening  to  even  so  little  as  a  half  pound  to  a  quart 
of  flour,  especially  when  children  or  dyspeptics  are  to  be  considered. 
With  the  exception  of  mince-pies,  which  are  warmed  over  before 
serving,  all  pies  should  be  eaten  the  day  they  are  baked.  In  warm 
weather,  when  not  ready  to  bake  immediately  after  making  up 
paste,  keep  it  in  the  ice-chest  till  wanted,  several  days  if  necessary, 
and,  in  any  event,  it  is  better  to  let  it  thus  remain  for  one  or  two 
hours.     Roll  always  with  a  weU-jUmred  rolling-pin. 

To  prevent  the  juicf  of  pies  from  soaking  into  the  under  crust, 
beat  an  egg  well,  and  with  a  bit  of  cloth  dipped  into  the  egg,  rub 
over  the  crust  before  filling  the  pies. 

For  a  more  wholesome  pie-crust  shortening,  boil  beans  or  potatoes 
until  soft,  make  into  a  broth,  work  through  a  colander,  mix  as  much 
into  the  flour  as  can  be  done  and  preserve  suflicient  tenacity  in  the 
dough.  Knead  moderately  stifl*,  and  roll  a  little  thicker  than  crust 
shortened  with  lard.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  make  a  puif-paste  for  the 
top  crust,  and  for  the  under  crust  use  less  shortening. 

When  using  green  currants,  pie-plant,  gooseberries,  or  other  fruitd" 
which  require  the  juice  to  be  thickened,  fill  the  lower  crust,  sprinkle 


PAJSTRY.  211 

com  starch  evenly  over,  and  put  on  the  upper  crust.    This  pre- 
vents the  juice  from  running  over,  and,  when  cold,  forms  a  nice 
jelly.     Do  not  sprinkle  with  sugar  uutil  the  fruit  is  placed  in  the 
crust,  as  the  sugar  sets  the  juice  free.     In  all  pies  with  top  crust, 
make  air-holes,  or  the  crust  will  burst.     These  may  be  arranged  in 
any  fanciful  shape,  and  are  best  made  by  the  point  of  the  bowl  of 
an  inverted  teanspoon  pressed  through  the  crust  while  on  the  board, 
and  gently  drawn  apart  when  taken  up  to  put  over  the  fire.     Mer- 
ingue, for  pies  or  puddings,  is  made  in  the  proportion  of  one  table- 
spoon sugar  to  white  of  one  egg,  with  flavoring  added.     Never  fill 
pies  until  just  before  putting  tliem  iu  the  oven.     Always  use  tin 
pie-pans,  since,  in  earthen  pans,  the  under  crust  is  not  likely  to  be 
well  baked.     Just  before  putting  on  the  upper  crust,  wet  the  rim 
of  the  lower  with  the  finger  dipped  in  water,  or  with  a  thick  paste 
of  flour  and  water,  or  egg  and  flour,  and  press  the  two  crusts  firmly 
together;  this  will  prevent  that  bane  of  all  pastry  cooks — a  burst 
pie.    Bake  fruit  pies  in  a  moderate  oven,  having  a  better  heat  at 
the  bottom  than  at  the  top  of  the  oven,  or  the  lower  crust  will  be 
clammy  and  raw.     When  done,  the  crust  will  separate  from  the 
pan,  so  that  the  pie  may  be  easily  removed.     Remove  at  once  frx)m 
the  tins,  or  the  crust  will  become  **  soggy.** 

The  secret  of  success  in  making  pufl'-paste  is  to  secure  the  great- 
est possible  number  of  layers  of  butter  and  dough  (alternately)  as 
the  result  of  folding  and  rolling.  This  is  best  accomplished,  as  will 
readily  be  perceived,  by  increasing  the  quantity  of  butter;  the  more 
you  use,  the  greater  the  number  of  layers  before  the  butter  is  ex- 
hausted by  absorption  into  the  dough.  Ob  the  other  hand,  too 
much  butter  produces  equally  bad  results;  a  quantity  of  butter 
equal  to  the  flour  is  the  most,  and  three-fourths  pound  of  butter 
to  a  pound  of  flour  the  least,  that  can  be  used  in  pufl'-paste  with 
good  results.  For  pastry  for  the  family  table  the  proportion  of 
butter  may  be  reduced  to  one-fourth  as  much  butter  as  flour,  and 
lard  or  suet  may  be  substituted  for  butter. 

In  making  pufl-paste,  it  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  lessening  the 
quantity  of  butter  is  economical.  For  instance,  tartlets  cut  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick  from  paste  made  with  half  a  pound  of  but- 
ter to  a  pound  of  flour,  will  not  be  any  thicker  or  higher  when 


212  PASTRY, 

baked  than  thoee  cut  from  paste  half  as  thick  made  with 
three-fourths  pound  butter  to  a  pound  of  flour.  Thus,  bj  using  one- 
fourth  more  butter  double  the  bulk  results,  besides  the  satisfaction 
of  having  good  light  pastry.  In  washing  or  egging  pastry,  be  care- 
ful not  to  allow  the  egg  or  milk,  or  whatever  \a  used,  to  run  down 
over  the  edges,  or,  as  it  sets  by  the  heat  of  the  oven,  it  will  bind 
the  edges  and  prevent  them  from  opening  fully.  lu  rolling,  use 
the  rolling-pin  as  lightly  as  possible,  and  take  care  that  the  pressure 
is  even.  The  layers  will  be  even  or  uneven  just  in  proportion  as 
the  pressure  is  even  or  uneven.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  dough, 
or  the  butter  will  be  forced  through,  and  thus  destroy  the  evenness 
of  the  layers.  K  the  dough  breaks,  cover  it  with  a  piece  of ''  plain 
dough,"  dust  it  well  with  flour,  and  continue  rolling.  (It  is  well 
to  keep  a  piece  of  plain  dough  in  reserve  for  this  purpose.) 

Aunty  Phelps'  Pie  Crust. 
To  one  pint  of  sifted  flour,  add  one  even  tea-spoon  baking  powder, 
and  sweet  cream  enough  to  wet  the  flour,  leaving  crust  a  little  stiff 
This  is  enough  for  two  pies. 

Good  Common  Paste. 
One  cofiee-cup  lard,  three  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  In 
winter  soften  the  lard  a  little  (but  not  in  summer),  cut  it  well  into 
the  flour  with  a  knife,  then  mix'  with  cold  water  quickly  into  a 
moderately  stiff  dough,  handling  as  little  as  possible.  This  makes 
four  common-sized  covered  pies.  Take  a  new  slice  of  paste  each 
time  for  top  crust  Aft»r  rolling  spread  with  a  tea-spoon,  butter, 
fold  and  roll  again,  using  the  trimmings,  etc.,  for  under  crust— 
Jlfi88  KaJty  Rupp, 

Graham  Paste. 

Mix  lightly  half  a  pound  Graham  flour,  half  a  pint  sweet  cream, 
half  a  teaspoon  salt,  roll,  and  bake  like  other  pastry. 

Puff  Paste. 
Take  three-fourths  pound  of  butter  (be  sure  that  it  is  of  the  best 
quality),  free  it  from  salt  (by  working  it  in  water),  form  it  in  a 
square  lump,  and  place  it  in  flour  for  half  an  hour  to  harden ;  place 
one  pound  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  take  two  ounces  of  butter  and  rub  it 
''fine"  into  the  flour,  wet  the  flour  into  dough  with  cold  water. 


PASTRY.  213 

tnaking  it  a&  neai  at>  po68ible  the  same  consistency  as  the  butter 
(so  that  ihkj  two  will  roll  out  evenly  together) ;  now  place  the  dough 
on  the  pastry  board,  dust  it  under  and  over  with  flour,  and  rdll  it 
out  in  a  piece  3ay  twelve  inches  long  and  six  wide ;  now  flour  butter 
well,  and  roll  that  out  in  a  sheet  about  eight  inches  long  and  five 
wide,  (this  will  cover  about  three-fourths  of  the  dough,  leaving  one- 
fourth  of  the  dough,  and  about  half  an  inch  around  the  sides  and 
top  edge,  without  butter).     Place  the  sheet  of  butter  on  the  dough 
as  described ;  take  half  a  ^ea-spoon  cream  tartar,  mix  it  with  twice 
its  bulk  of  flour,  and  sprinkle  it  evenly  over  the  butter ;  now  fold 
the  one-fourth  not  covered  with  butter,  over  on  the  butter,  then 
fold  the  other  part  with  the  butter  on  it  over  on  that,  and  you  will 
then  have  three  layers  of  dough  and  two  of  butter.     Boll  out  to  its 
original  size,  dust  with  flour,  fold  it  as  before,  roll  out  again,  dust 
with  flour,  and  fold  again ;  repeat  twice  more,  giving  it  four  rollings 
and.  foldings ;  when  rolled  out  for  the  last  time,  cut  it  through  in 
two  even  pieces,  and  place  one  on  the  other,  and  the  paste  is  ready 
to  roll  in  any  shape  desired. 

In  warm  weather  it  is  necessary  to  place  it  in  a  cool  place  after 
every  second  rolling ;  in  very  warm  weather  after  each  rolling,  and 
sometimes  on  ice.  A  good,  firm,  tough  butter  is  best  for  the  pur- 
pose. Take  care  not  to  use  carbonate  of  soda  or  saleratus  instead 
of  cream  tartar ;  use  a  sharp  cutter  to  cut  out  tartlets ;  give  a  rapid 
downward  cut  so  that  it  will  cut,  not  drag  through,  so  that  the 
layera  may  not  be  pressed  together,  so  as  to  prevent  their  opening 
leadily  when  baking,  thus  preventing  the  tartlets  from  raising  fully. 
Afker  they  are  cut,  place  them  on  the  pans  or  in  the  patty-pans 
upside  down,  because  the  cutter  in  dividing  the  paste  presses  down- 
ward toward  the  board,  closing  the  layers,  and  if  placed  in  oven 
right  side  up,  the  edges  pressed  somewhat  closely  together  can  not 
open  fully,  consequently  do  not  rise  well,  but,  if  inverted,  the  layers 
open  more  evenly  at  the  edges. — C.  H,  King,  Orange,  N.  J, 

PuFP  Paste. 

One  heaping  pound  superfine  sifted  flour,  one  of  butter,  which 
has  first  been  folded  in  a  napkin  and  gently  pressed  to  remove  all 


214  PASTRY. 

moisture;  place  the  flour  on  board  (or  marble  slab  is  better),  make 
a  well  in  center,  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  add  yolk  of 
one  egg,  beaten  with  a  little  ice- water;  stir  with  one  hand  and  drop 
in  ice-water  with  the  other,  until  the  paste  is  as  hard  as  the  butter ; 
roll  paste  out  in  a  smooth  square  an  inch  thick,  smooth  sides  with 
a  rolling-pin,  spread  the  butter  over  half  the  paste;  lay  the  other 
half  over  like  an  old-fashioned  turn -over,  leave  it  for  fifteen  min< 
utes  in  a  cold  place,  then  roll  out  in  a  long  strip,  keeping  the  edges 
smooth,  and  double  it  in  three  parts,  as  follows:  Fold  one-third  over 
on  the  middle  third,  roll  it  down,  then  fold  over  the  other  outside 
third,  roll  out  in  a  long  strip  and  repeat  the  folding  process — ^rolling 
across  this  time  so  that  the  butter  may  not  run  ''in  streaks"  by 
being  always  rolled  the  same  way ;  let  it  lie  for  fifteen  minutes,  and 
repeat  this  six  times,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  between  each  rolling 
to  cooj,  otherwise  the  butter  will  "  oil,"  and  the  paste  is  ready  for 
use.  Handle  as  little  as  possible  through  the  whole  process.  All 
the  flour  used  must  be  of  the  very  best  quality,  and  thoroughly 
sifted.  The  quantity  of  water  depends  on  the  capacity  of  the  flour 
toabserb  it,  which  is  quite- variable.  Too  little  makes  the  paste 
toug\,  and  too  much  makes  it  thin,  and  prevents  the  flakiness  so 
desirable.  Rich  paste  requires  a  quick  oven.  This  may  be  made 
in  one-fourth  the  quantity  given  above,  and  is  then  much  more 
easily  handled. — Jlrs.  Fl  Cr.  Hmliy  MiiuieapoliSy  Minn, 

Paste  with  Suet. 
Roll  a  half-pound  of  the  best  suet,  with  very  little  membrane 
running  through  it,  on  a  board  for  several  minutes,  removing  all 
the  skin  and  fibers  that  appear  when  rolling ;  the  suet  will  be  a 
pure  and  sweet  shortening,  looking  like  butter;  or  the  suet  may 
be  chop})ed  fine  and  the  fibers  removed.  Rub  the  suet  into  a 
pouHrd  of  flour,  add  a  tea-spoon  salt,-  and  mix  it  with  a  half 
pint  of  ice-water ;  roll  out  for  the  plates,  and  put  on  a  little  butter 
in  flakes,  rolling  it  in  as  usual.  Some  add  a  tea-spoon  baking- 
powder. 

Apple  Meringue  Pie. 

Pare,  slice,  stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  tart  and  juicy  apples,  mash 
and  season  with  nutmeg,  (or  stew  lemon  peel  with  them  for  flavor), 
fill  crust  and  bake  till  done ;  spread  over  the  apple  a  thick  meringue 


i 


PASTRY.  215 

made  bj  whipping  to  froth  whites  of  three  eggs  for  each  pie,  sweet- 
ening with  three  table-spoons  powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla, 
beat  until  it  will  stand  alone,  and  cover  pie  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  thick.  Set  back  in  a  quick  oven  till  well  ''  set/'  and  eat  cold. 
In  their  season  substitute  peaches  for  apples. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. 
Peel  sour  apples  and  stew  until  soft,  and  not  much  water  is  left 
in  them,  and  rub  through  a  colander.     Beat  three  eggs  for  each 
pie.    Put  in  in  proportion  of  one  cup  butter,  and  one  of  sugar  for 
three  pies.     Season  with  nutmeg. — Mrs,  D.  G,  Oroas, 

Dried  Apple  Pie. 

Very  good  pies  may  be  made  of  the  **  Alden  "  dried  apples,  by 

stewing  in  a  very  little  water ;  sweeten   and  make  like  any  other. 

The  home  dried  apples  are  best  when  stewed  very  soft,  and  mashed 

through  a  colander.     When  stewing  put  in  two  or  three  small  pieces 

of  lemon  or  orange  peel  (previously  dried  and  saved  for  cooking 

purposes);  flavor  with  a  very  little  spice  of  any  kind.     Sweeten  and 

season  before  putting  into  the  pie-pan.     A  beaten  egg  may  be  stirred 

m.    Bake  with  two  crusts,  rolled  thin,  and  warm  slightly  before 

eating. 

Sliced- APPLE  Pie. 

Line  pie-pan  with  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  fill  with  tart  apples 
sliced  very  thin,  sprinkle  sugar  and  a  very  little  cinnamon  over 
them,  and  add  a  few  small  bits  of  butter,  and  a  table-spoon 
water;  dredge  in  flour,  .cover  with  the  top  crust,  and  bake 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  allow  four  or  five  table-spoons 
sugar  to  one  pie.  Or,  line  pans  with  crurt,  fill  with  sliced  apples, 
put  on  top  crust  and  bake ;  take  ofl*  top  crust,  put  in  sugar,  bits  of 
butter  and  seasoning,  replace  crust  and  serve  warm.  It  is  delicious 
with  sweetened  cream.  Crab-apple  pie,  if  made  of  ''  Transcend- 
ents," will  fully  equal  those  made  of  larger  varieties  of  the  apple. — 

ifrg.  D.  Buxton. 

Banana  Pie. 

Slice  raw  bananas,  add  butter,  sugar,  allspice  and  vinegar,  or 

boiled  cider,  or  diluted  jelly;  bake  with  two  crusts.     Cold  boiled 

sweet  potatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  bananas,  and  are  very  nice. 


216  PASTRY. 

Corn  Starch  Pies. 
One  quart  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  table-spoons  com  starch, 
two  cups  sugar;  mix  starch  in  a  little  milk,  boil  the  rest  of  the 
milk  to  a  thick  cream,  beat  the  yolks  and  add  starch,  put  in  the 
boiled  milk  and  add  sugar ;  bake  with  an  under  crust,  beat  whites 
with  two  table-spoons  sugar,  and  put  on  top  of  pies,  and,  when 
done,  return  to  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Grubba,  Riclvnwnd^ 

Cream  Pie. 

Beat  thoroughly  together  the  white  of  one  egg,  half  tea-cup  sugar, 

and  table-spoon  of  flour;  then  add  tea-cup  rich  milk  (some  use  part 

cream),  bake  with  a  bottom  crust,  and  grate  nutmeg  on  top. — Mn. 

Luiher  Liggett. 

Cream  Pie. 

Pour  a  pint  cream  upon  a  cup  and  a  half  powdered  sugar;  let 

stand  until  the  whites  of  three  eggs  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff 

froth ;  add  this  to  the  cream,  and  beat  up  thoroughly,  grate  a  little 

nutmeg  over  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  two  pies  without  upper 

crusts. — Mrs.  Henry  C.  Meredith. 

Whipped  Cream  Pie. 
Bweeten  with  white  sugar  one  tea-cup  very  thick  sweet  cream, 
made  as  cold  as  possible  without  freezing,  and  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vanilla  to  taste;  beat  until  as  light  as  eggs  for  frosting,  and  keep 
cool  until  the  crust  is  ready ;  make  crust  moderately  rich,  prick  well 
with  a  fork  to  prevent  blistering,  bake,  spread  on  the  cream,  and 
to  add  finish  put  bits  of  jelly  over  the  top.  The  above  will  make 
two  pies. — Mrs,  A.  M.  Alexander y  HarrUburg. 

Crumb  Pie. 

Soak  in  a  little  warm  water  one  tea-cup  bread-crumbs  half  an 
hour,  add  three  table-spoons  sugar,  half  a  table-spoon  butter,  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water,  a  little  vinegar,  and  nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste ; 
bake  with  two  crusts,  made  the  same  as  for  other  pies. — Miss  Syl- 
via J.  Courier. 

Cocoa-nut  Pie. 

One  pint  milk,  a  cocoa-nut,  tea-cup  sugar,  three  eggs ;  grate  cocoa- 
nut,  mix  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  milk, 
filling  the  pan  even  full,  and  bake.      Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  frothy 


PASTRY,  217 

BtirriDg  in  three  table-spoons  pulverized  sugar,  pour  over  pie  and 
hake  to  a  light  brown.  If  prepared  coooarnut  is  used,  one  heaping 
tea-cup  is  required. — ^Rs8  N.  B.  jBroim,  WashingUm  City. 

Custard  Pie. 

Heat  one  quart  good  rich  milk  in  n  tin-pan  set  in  a  skillet  of  hot 

water;  take  five  eggs," four  large  table-spoons  sugar,  and  a  little 

salt,  beat  sugar  and  eggs  a  little,  and  pour  in  the  milk  ;    flavor  to 

Bnit  the  taste  and  have  oven  hot  when  put  in  to  bake.     Then  cook 

bIowIj  so  as  not  to  boil,  as  that  spoils  it ;  test  with  a  knife,  when 

done  it  will   not  stick  to  blade.     Without  the  crust,  this  makes  a 

delicious  baked  custard.    Bake  in  a  deep  tin — Mrs,  C.  B,  Boody, 

JCiMoveny 

Custard  Pie. 

For  a  large  pie,  take  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  half  cup  sugar, 

and  flavor.     The  crust  for  custard  pies  may  be  baked  (not  too  hard) 

before  putting  in  the  custard ;  prick  it  before  putting  it  in  oven  to 

prevent  blistering.     This  prevents  it  from  becoming  soggy, — Mrs, 

N.  S.  Long. 

Chess  Pie. 

Three  ^gs,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter  (half  cup  milk 

may  be  added  if  not  wanted  so  rich) ;  beat  butter  to  a  cream,  then 

add  yolks  and  si|gar  beaten  to  a  froth  with  the  flavoring ;  stir  all 

together  rapidly,  and   bake  in  a  nice  crust.     When  done,  spread 

with  the  beaten  whites,  and  three  table-spoons  sugar  and  a  little 

flavoring.     Return  to  oven,  and  brown  slightly.      This  makes  one 

pie,  which  should  be  served  immediately. — Mrs.  J.  Canon,  Olendale. 

Green  Currant  Pie. 
Line  an  inch  pie-dish  with  good  pie-crust,  sprinkle  over  the  bot- 
tom two  heaping  table-spoons  sugar  and  two  of  flour  (or  one  of  corn 
starch)  mixed ;  then  pour  in  one  pint  green  currants  washed  clean, 
and  two  table-spoons  currant  jelly;  sprinkle  with  four  heaping 
table-spoons  sugar,  and  add  two  table-spoons  cold  water ;  cover  and 
bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. — Mm  S.  Alice  Mdching. 

Ripe  Currant  Pie. 
One  cup  mashed  ripe  currants,  one  of  sugar,  two  table-spoons 
Water,  one  of  flour  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  bake,  frost 


318  PASTRY. 

the  top  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  two  tabl^^-spoons 
powdered  sugar,  and  brown  in  oven.— Jfr«.  W.  E,  JI, 

Cherry  Pie. 
Line  a  pie-tin  with  rich  crust ;  nearly  fill  with  the  carefuUj 
seeded  finiit,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  sprinkle  evenly  with  a  tea-spoon 
corn-starch  or  a  table-spoon  flour,  add  a  table-spoon  of  butter  cut 
into  small  bits  and  scattered  over  the  top ;  wet  edge  of  crust,  put  on 
upper  crust,  and  press  the  edges  closely  together,  taking  care  to  pro- 
vide holes  in  the  center  for  the  escape  of  the  air.  Pies  from  black* 
berries,  raspberries,  etc.,  are  all  made  in  the  same  way,  regulating 
the  quantity  of  the  sugar  by  the  tartness  of  the  fruit. 

Lemon  Pie. 
One  lemon  grated,  one  cup  sugar,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  small 
pieces  butter,  three  table-spoons  milk,  two  tea-spoons  com  starch ; 
beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  rich  crust;  beat  the  whites  with 
three  table-spoons  sugar,  place  on  the  pie  when  done,  and  then 
brown  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Scobey, 

Lemon  Pie. 
Four  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cups  water,  two 
table-spoons  flour,  one  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  very 
smooth  (beat  the  yolks  a  long  time  and  whip  the  whites  well),  add 
the  grated  peel  of  lemon  and  the  sugar,  beat  well,  stir  in  the  flour, 
and  add  the  lemon  juice  (if  lemons  are  small  two  may  be  necessary), 
and  lastly  the  water;  stir  well,  and  pour  in  pie-pans  lined  with 
paste.  When  baked,  take  from  oven,  and  spread  over  them  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  dry  and  smooth  with  four  table-spoons 
pulverized  sugar ;  return  to  oven  and  brown  slightly.  The  above 
recipe  is  for  two  pies. — Mrs.  Virginia  C.  Meredith. 

Appleless  Mince-Meat. 
Chop  fine  eight  pounds  green  tomatoes,  add  six  pounds  sugar,  one 
ounce  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  simmer  slowly  till 
tomatoes  are  clear,  then  put  away  in  a  covered  jar.  For  pies  in 
winter,  take  in  the  proportion  of  two-thirds  tomatoes  and  one-third 
meat,  and  season  with  butter,  boiled  cider,  sugar  if  needed,  etc..  ai 
regular  mince  pies  would  be  seasoned. 


PASTRY.  219 

Mince-Meat. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  scraggy  beef — a  neck  piece  will  do — and 
put  to  boil  in  water  enough  to  cover  it;  take  off  the  scum  that 
rises  when  it  reaches  the  boUing  point,  add  hot  water  irom  time  to 
time  until  it  is  tender,  then  remove  the  lid  from  the  pot,  salt,  let 
boil  till  almost  dry,  turning  the  meat  over  occasionally  in  the  liquor, 
take  from  the  fire,  and  let  stand  over  night  to  get  thoroughly  cold ; 
pick  bones,  gristle,  or  stringy  bits  from  the  meat,  chop  very  fine, 
mincing  at  the  same  time  three  pounds  of  nice  beef  suet ;  seed  and 
cut  four  pounds  raisins,  wash  and  dry  four  pounds  currants,  slice 
thin  a  pound  of  citron,  chop  fine  four  quarts  good-cooking  tart  ap- 
ples; put  into  a  large  pan  together,  add  two  ounces  cinnamon,  one 
of  cloves,  one  of  giiiger,  four  nutmegs,  the  juice  and  grated  rhids 
of  two  lemons,  one  table-spoon  salt,  oue  tea-spoon  pepper,  and  two 
pounds  sugar.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  one  quart  boiled  cider,  or, 
better  still,  one  quart  currant  or  gmpe  juice  (canned  when  grapes 
are  turning  from  green  to  purple),  one  quart  nice  molasses  or  syrup, 
and,  if  you  have  any  syrup  left  from  sweet  pickles,  add  some  of 
that,  also  a  good  lump  of  butter ;  let  it  come  to  boiling  point,  and 
pour  over  the  ingredients  in  the  pan  after  having  first  mixed  them 
well,  then  mix  again  thoroughly.  Pack  in  jars  and  put  in  a  cool 
place,  and,  when  cold,  pour  molasses  over  the  top  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  and  cover  tightly.  This  will  keep  two  months. 
For  baking,  take  some  out  of  a  jar,  if  not  moist  enough  add  a  little 
hot  water,  and  strew  a  few  whole  raisins  over  each  pie.  Instead  of 
boiled  beef,  a  beef  Vheart  or  roast  meat  may  be  used ;  and  a  good 
proportion  for  a  few  pies  is  one-third  chopped  meat  and  two-thirds 
apples,  with  a  little  suet,  raisins,  spices,  butter,  and  salt. 

The  above  is  a  good  formula  to  use,  but,  of  course,  may  be  varied 
to  suit  diflTerent  tastes  or  the  material  at  hand.  If  too  rich,  add 
more  chopped  apples ;  in  lieu  of  cider,  vinegar  and  water  in  equal 
proportions  may  be  used ;  good  preserves,  marmalades,  spiced 
pickles,  currant  or  grape  jelly,  canned  fruit,  dried  cherries,  etc., 
may  take  the  place  of  raisins,  currants  and  citrons.  Wine  or 
brandy  is  considered  by  many  a  great  improvement,  but  if  "  it 
causeth  thy  brother  to  offend  "  do  not  use  it.  Lemon  and  vanilla 
extracts  are  often  used,  also  preserved  lemon  or  orange  peel.     The 


220  PASTRY. 

minoe-meat  is  better  to  stand  over  night,  or  several  days,  before 
baking  into  pies,  as  the  materials  will  be  more  thoroughly  incorpo- 
rated.   Many  prefer  to  freeze  their  pies  after  baking,  heating  them  as 

needed. 

Mince-Meat. 

Two  bowls  chopped  apples,  one  of  chopped  meat,  with  one-fourth 
pound  suet,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  tea-cups  mo* 
lasses,  one  large  tea-spoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  nut- 
meg, one  poimd  raisins,  half  pound  currants,  one-fourth  pound 
citron  cut  fine,  one  quart  cider,  and  sugar  and  salt  to  taste. — Mrs.  J. 
R,  WUooXy  New  Haven^ 

Mock  Mince-Pie. 
Twelve  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  cup  hot  water,  half  cup  vinegar, 
one  cup  molasses,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  curiunts,  one  of  raisins,  spice 
to  taste ;  measure  with  a  tea-cup.  Some  use  one  cup  dried  bread- 
crumbs, and  also  add  a  small  cup  butter.  This  is  for  four  pies. — 
Mrs.  Annie  E,  Gillespie, 

Orange  Pie. 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  four  eggs,  four  table-spoons 
sugar,  and  one  of  butter;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
beaten  eggs,  then  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  oranges,  and,  lastly,  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  mixed  in  lightly.  Bake  with  an  under 
crust. — Oov.  Steams,  Florida, 

Pie-plant  Pie. 

Mix  half  tea-cup  white  sugar  and  one  heaping  tea-spoon  flour 

together,  sprinkle  over  the  bottom  crust,  then  add  the  pie-plant  cut 

up  fine ;  sprinkle  over  this  another  half  tea-cup  sugar  and  heaping 

tea-spoon  flour ;  bake  fully  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Or,  stew  the  pie-plant,  sweeten,  add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a 

lemon  and  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  bake  and  frost  like  lemon  pie. — 

Mrs,  D.  Buxton, 

Peach  Pie. 

Bake  in  two  separate  tins  an  under  and  upper  crust  in  a  quick  oven 

fifteen  minutes ;  when  done  place  in  the  lower  crust  one  quart  peaches 

prepared  by  slicing,  and  adding  three  table-spoons  each  of  sugar  and 

cream,  cover  with  the  top  crust,  and  place  in  oven  for  five  minutea. 


PASTRY,  221 

Treat  Btrawberries,  raBpberries,  etc.,  in  the  same  way. — Mn.  F.  L. 

T.,  New  Orleans. 

Peach  Pie. 

Liine  a  pie-tin  with  puff-paste,  fill  with  pared  peaches  in  halves 

or  quarters,  well  covered  with  sugar ;  put  on  upper  crust  and  bake ; 

or  noake  as  above  without  upper  crust,  bake  until  done,  remove 

from  the  oven,  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of 

two  ^gs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  two  table-spoons  powdered 

sugar;  return  to  oven  and  brown  slightly.     Canned  peaches  may 

be  used  instead  of  fresh,  in  the  same  way. 

Dried-feach  Pie. 
Stew  peaches  until  perfectly  soil,  mash  fine,  and  add,  for  two 
pies,  half  tea-cup  sweet  cream,  and  one  tea-cup  sugar;  bake  with 
two  crusts.     Or,  omit  cream,  and  add  half  tearcup  boiling  water, 
and  butter  size  of  a  hickory-nut. 

Potato  Pie. 

A  common-sized  tea-cup  of  grated  raw  potato,  a  quart  sweet  milk ; 
let  milk  boil  and  stir  in  grated  potato ;  when  cool  add  two  or  three 
^gs  well  beaten,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste ;  bake  without  upper 
crust;  eat  the  day  it  is  baked.  This  recipe  is  for  two  pies. — Mm 
Sarah  Thomson^  Delaware. 

Potato  Pie. 

Boil  either  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes  until  well  done,  mash  and  rub 
through  a  sieve ;  to  a  pint  of  pulp,  add  three  pints  sweet  milk, 
table-spoon  melted  butter,  tea-cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt, 
and  nutm^  or  lemon  to  flavor.  Use  rich  paste  for  under  crust — 
Mn.  R.  C.  Carwn,  Harridmrg, 

Pumpkin  Pie. 
Stew  pumpkin,  cut  into  small  pieces,  in  a  half  pint  water ;  and, 
when  soft,  mash  with  potato-masher  very  fine,  let  the  water  dry 
away,  watching  closely  to  prevent  burning  or  scorching ;  for  each 
pie  take  one  well-beaten  egg,  half  cup  sugar,  two  table-spoons  pumpi 
km,  half  pint  rich  milk  (a  little  cream  will  improve  it),  a  little 
salt;  stir  well  together,  and  season  with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg;  bake 
with  under  crust  in  a  hot  oven.  Some  steam  pumpkin  instead  of 
fltewipg  it. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Merey. 


J 


222  PjlSTBr. 

Pine-apple  Pie. 
A  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  butter,  one  of  sweet  cream,  five  eggs, 
one  pine-apple  grated ;  beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  pine-apple  and  cream,  and,  laatly,  the  beaten 
whites  whipped  in  lightly.  Bake  with  under  crust  only, — Mrs.  Wm, 
Smith,  JacksonvUle,  Florida. 

Preserve  Puffs. 

Boll  out  puff-paste  very  thin,  cut  into  round  pieces,  and  lay  jam 
on  each,  fold  over  the  paste,  wet  edges  with  white  of  an  egg,  and 
close  them ;  lay  them  on  a  baking  sheet,  ice  them,  and  bake  about 
fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  A.  E. 

Plum  Cobbler. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  four  table-spoons  melted  lard,  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  tea-spoons  baking-powder;  mix  a£  for  biscuit,  with 
either  sweet  milk  or  water,  roll  thin,  and  line  a  pudding-dish  or 
dripping-pan,  nine  by  eighteen  inches ;  mix  three  table-spoons  flour 
and  two  of  sugar  together,  and  sprinkle  over  the  crust;  then  poiur 
in  three  pints  canned  damson  plums,  and  sprinkle  over  them  one 
coffee-cup  sugar  ;  wet  the  edges  with  a  little  flour  and  water  mixed, 
put  on  upper  crust,  press  the  edges  together,  make  two  openings  by 
cutting  two  incisions  at  right  angles  an  inch  in  length,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  half  an  hour.  Peaches,  apples,  or  any  kind  of  fresh 
or  canned  fruit,  can  be  made  in  the  same  wav. — Miss  8.  Alice 
Mdcldng. 

Southern  Tomato  Pie. 

For  one  pie,  peel  and  slice  green  tomatoes,  add  four  tablenspoons 
vinegar,  one  of  butter,  three  of  sugar ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or 
cinnamon ;  bake  with  two  crusts  slowly.  This  tastes  very  much 
like  a  green  apple  pie. — Mrs.  Ceba  Hull. 

Vixeqar  Pie. 

One  Qgg,  one  heaping  table-spoon  flour,  one  tea-cup  sugar;  beat 
all  well  together,  and  add  one  table-spoon  sharp  vin^ar,  and  one 
tea-cup  cold  water ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  bake  with  two  crusta. 
— Mrs.  B.  A.  Fay. 


PASTRY.  223 

Bina's  Strawberry  Shortcake. 
Two  heaping  tea-spoons  baking  powder  sifted  into  one  quart  flour, 
Bcant  half  tea-cup  butter,  two  table-spoons  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
oiough  sweet  milk  (or  water)  to  make  a  sofl  dough ;  roll  out  almost 
88  thin  as  pie-crust,  place  one  layer  in  a  baking-pan,  and  spread 
with  a  very  little  butter,  upon  which  sprinkle  some  flour,  then  add 
another  layer  of  crust  and  spread  as  before,  and  so  on  until  crust  is 
all  used.  This  makes  four  layei*s  in  a  pan  fourteen  inches  by  seven. 
Bake  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  turn  out  upside  down, 
take  ofi*  the  top  layer  (the  bottom  when  baking),  place  on  a  dish, 
spiesid  plentifully  with  strawberries  (not  mashed)  previously  sweet- 
ened with  pulverized  sugar,  place  layer  upon  layer,  treating  each 
one  in  the  same  way ;  and  when  done  you  will  have  a  handsome 
cake,  to  be  served  warm  with  sugar  and  cream.  The  secret  of 
having  light  dough  is  to  handle  it  as  little  and  mix  it  as  quickly  as 
possible.  Shortcake  is  delicious  served  with  charlotte-russe  or 
whipped  cream.     Easpberry  and  peach  shortcakes  may  be  made  in 

the  same  way. 

Orange  Shortcake. 

One  quart  flour,  two  table-spoons  butter,  two  tea-spoons  baking 
powder  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  flour ;  mix  (not  very  stifi*)  with 
cold  water,  work  as  little  as  possible,  bake,  split  open,  and  lay 
sliced  oranges  between ;  cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  pudding 
sauce.  Berries  may  be  used  instead  of  oranges. — Mr8.  Canby,  BeUe- 
fontaine. 

Apple  Tarts. 

Pare,  quarter,  core,  and  boil  in  a  half  tea-cup  of  water  until  very 
soft,  ten  large  tart  apples ;  beat  till  very  smooth,  then  add  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs  or  three  whole  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons, 
half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  or  more  if  not  sweet 
enough;  beat  all  thoroughly,  line  little  tart-tins  with  puff*-paste, 
and  fill  with  the  mixture,  bake  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  If 
wanted  very  nice,  take  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs  (when  the  yolks 
of  six  are  used),  mix  with  six  table-spoons  pulverized  sugar,  spread 
on  the  top  of  the  tarts,  return  to  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

For  almond  tarts,  beat  to  a  cream  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  add  half  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds 


•i24  PAjSTEY. 

pounded  slightly,  put  in  tart-tins  lined  with  puff-paste;  bake  eight 
minutes. 

For  cocoa-nuts,  dissolve  half  pound  sugar  in  quarter  of  a  pint 
water,  add  half  a  grated  cocoa-nut,  let  this  boil  slowly  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  when  cold,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs 
and  the  white  of  one ;  beat  all  well  together,  and  pour  into  pattj* 
pans  lined  with  a  rich  crust ;  bake  a  few  minutes. 

When  removed  from  oven,  cover  the  tarts  with  a  meringue  made 
01  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  mixed  with  three  table-spoons  sugar ; 
return  to  oven,  and  brown  delicately.  ' 

Tart  Shells. 

Roll  out  thin  a  nice  puff-paste,  cut  out  with  a  glass  or  biscuit 
cutter,  with  a  wine-glass  or  smaller  cup  cut  out  the  center  of  two 
out  of  three  of  these,  lay  the  rings  thus  made  on  the  third,  and 
bake  immediately ;  or  shells  may  be  made  by  lining  patty-pans  with 
paste.  If  the  paste  is  light,  the  shells  will  be  fine,  and  may  be 
used  for  tarts  or  oyster  patties.  Filled  with  jelly  and  covered  with 
meringue  (table-spoon  sugar  to  white  of  one  egg),  and  browned  in 
oven,  they  are  very  nice  to  serve  for  tea. 

A  Kentucky  Girl's  Pumpkin  Pie. 

Gut  pumpkin  in  halves,  remove  seeds,  bake  in  a  dripping-pan 
(skin  side  of  pumpkin  downward),  with  a  aUno  fire,  until  pulp  can 
readily  be  scraped  from  skin ;  mash  fine,  and  while  hot  add  to  each 
quart  pumpkin  two  table-spoons  butter;  when  cold,  sweeten  to 
taste ;  add  one  pint  cream  or  new  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  well 
beaten  and  strained^  cinnamon  and  allspice  to  taste  (ginger,  if  pre- 
ferred), one  wine-glass  of  brandy;  stir  weU,  and  just  at  the  last 
add  whites  of  eggs,  well  whipped.  The  brandy  can  be  omitted 
and  not  injure  recipe.  Many  like  a  table-spoon  of  lemon  extract 
and  less  spice.  If  lemon  is  used,  omit  brandy.  Bake  in  deep  pie- 
plates  in  a  quick  oven. — L.  A*  B.  (X,  LexmgUm,  Ky. 


PUDDINGS  AND   SAUCES. 


No  ingredient  of  doubtful  quality  should  enter  into  the  composi- 
tion of  puddings.  Suet  must  be  'perfecdy  Sfweet^  and  milk  should  be 
firesh  and  without  the  least  unpleasant  flavor.  Suet  when  over  kept 
and  milk  soured  or  curdled  in  the  slightest  degree,  ruins  a  pudding 
which  would  otherwise  be  most  delicious.  Dried  currants,  such  as 
are  sold  in  the  market,  need  very  careful  and  thorough  washing 
(after  which  they  must  be  dried  in  a  napkin),  and  raisins  should  be 
rubbed  in  a  coarse  towel  to  remove  stems  and  all  dirt  from  the  out- 
aide,  and  afterward  carefully  seeded.  Almonds  and  spices  must  be 
very  finely  pounded,  and  the  rinds  of  oranges  or  lemons  rasped  or 
grated  lighUy  off  (the  white  part  of  the  peel  has  no  flavor  and  is  an 
mjury). 

In  making  puddings,  always  beat  the  eggs  separately,  straining 
the  yolks  and  adding  the  whites  the  last  thing.  If  boiled  milk  is 
used,  let  it  cool  somewhat  before  adding  the  eggs;  when  fruit  is 
added,  stir  it  in  at  the  last.  Puddings  are  either  baked,  boiled  or 
steamed;  rice,  bread,  custard,  and  fruit  puddings  require  a  mod- 
erate heat;  batter  and  com  starch,  a  rather  quick  oven.  Always 
bake  them  as  soon  as  mixed.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  any  pud- 
dmg. 

Boiled  puddings  are  lighter  when  boiled  in  a  cloth  and  allowed 
full  room  to  swell,  but  many  use  either  a  tin  mold  or  bowl  with 
cloth  tied  over  it ;  grease  the  former  well  on  the  inside  with  lard  or 
butter,  and  in  boiling  do  not  let  the  water  reach  quite  to  the  top. 
The  pudding-bag  should  be  made  of  firm  drilling,  tapering  from 
top  to  bottom,  and  rounded  on  the  comers;  stitch  and  fell  the 

15  (226) 


226  PUDDINGS  AND  8A  UCES. 

Beams,  which  should  be  outside  when  in  use,  and  sew  a  tape  to  flie 
seam,  about  three  inches  ^m  top.  Wring  the  bag  out  of  hot 
water,  flour  the  inside  well,  pour  in  the  pudding  (which  should  be 
well  beaten  the  instant  before  pouring),  tie  securely,  leaving  room 
to  swell  (especially  when  made  of  Indian  meal,  bread,  rice,  or 
crackers),  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  a  saucer  at  the  bottom  to  pre* 
vent  burning;  immediately  pour  in  enough  boiling  water  to  entireljr 
cover  the  bag,  which  must  be  turned  several  times,  keeping  it  boiling 
constantly,  filling  up  from  the  tea-kettle  when  needed.  If  the  pud* 
ding  is  boiled  in  a  bowl,  grease,  fill,  and  cover  with  a  square  of 
drilling  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  floured  and  tied  on.  To  use  a  pan, 
tie  a  cloth  tightly  over  the  rim,  bringing  the  ends  back  together, 
and  pinning  them  over  the  top  of  the  pan ;  the  puddipg  may  then 
be  lifted  out  easily  by  a  strong  fork  put  through  the  ends  or  cor- 
ners of  the  cloth.  Open  bag  a  little  to  I6t  steam  escape,  and  serve 
immediately,  as  delay  ruins  all  boiled  pudding.  For  plum  pud- 
dings, invert  the  pan  when  put  in  the  kettle,  and  the  pudding  will 
not  become  water-soaked.  When  the  pudding  is  done,  give  what- 
ever it  is  boiled  in  a  quick  plunge  into  cold  water,  and  turn  out  at 
once,  serving  immediately.  As  a  general  rule,  boiled  puddings  re- 
quire double  the  time  required  for  baked.  Steaming  is  safer  than 
either  boiling  or  baking,  as  the  pudding  is  sure  to  be  light  and 
wholesome.  Put  on  over  cold  water  and  do  not  remove  cover  while 
steaming.  In  making  sauces,  do  not  boil  after  the  butter  is  added. 
Use  brown  or  powdered  sugar  for  sauces.  In  place  of  wine  or 
brandy,  flavor  with  juice  of  the  grape,  or  any  other  fruit  prepared 
for  this  purpose  in  its  season  by  boiling  and  bottling  and  sealing 
while  hot.  Pudding  cloths,  however  coarse,  should  never  be 
washed  with  soap,  but  in  clear,  clean  water,  dried  as  quickly  as 
j>  >ssible,  and  kept  dry  and  out  of  dust  in  a  drawer  or  cupboard 
free  from  smell.  Dates  are  an  excellent  substitute  for  sugar  in 
Graham  or  any  other  pudding.  Fruit  for  preserving  should 
always  be  gathered  in  perfectly  dry  weather  and  be  free  from  dust 
and  the  morning  and  evening  dew.  Never  use  tin,  iron  or  pevrter 
spoons  or  skimmers  for  preserves. 


PUDDINGS  AND  8A  UCE&  227 

Apple  Roley  Foley. 
Peely  quarter  and  core  sour  apples,  make  rich  soda-biscuit  dough, 
(or  raised-biscuit  dough  may  be  used  if  rolled  thinner),  roll  to  half 
an  inch  thick,  slice  the  quarters,  and  lay  on  the  prepared  paste  or 
crust,  roll  up,  tuck  ends  in,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  lay  in  a 
steamer  and  place  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  cook  an  hour  and 
three-quarters.  Or,  wrap  in  a  cloth,  tie  up  the  ends  and  baste  up 
sides,  put  in  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half 
or  more,  keeping  the  water  boiling  constantly.  Cut  across,  and  eat 
with  sweetened  cream  or  butter  and  sugar.  Cherries,  dried  fruit, 
any  kind  of  berries,  jelly,  or  apple-butter  (with  the  two  last  raisins 
may  be  added),  can  be  used. — Mrs.  T.  B,  J. 

Orange  Roley  Foley. 
Make  a  light  pastry  as  for  apple  dumplings,  roll  in  oblong  sheets 
and  lay  oranges  peeled,  sliced,  and  seeded,  thickly  all  over  it ;  sprin- 
kle with  white  sugar ;  scatter  over  all  a  tea-spoon  or  two  of  grated 
orange-peel,  and  roll  up,  folding  down  the  edges  closely  to  keep  the 
syrup  from  running  out;  boil  in  a  cloth  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Eat  with  lemon-sauce  prepared  as  follows:  Six  eggs,  leaving  out 
the  whites  of  two,  half  pound  butter,  one  jwund  sugar,  juice  of 
two  lemons  and  rind  of  both  grated  ;  place  over  a  slow  fire,  stir  till 
k  thickens  like  honey.     Very  nice. — Mrs.  A.  E.    WcUshj  NashviUe, 

Tmn. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings. 

Add  to  two  cups  sour  milk  one  tea-spoon  soda,  and  one  of  salt, 
half  cup  of  butter,  lard,  flour  enough  to  make  dough  a  little  stiffer 
than  for  biscuit;  or  make  a  good  baking-powder  crust;  peel  and 
tore  apples,  roll  out  crust,  place  apples  on  dough,  fill  cavity  of  each 
with  sugar,  encase  each  apple  in  coating  of  the  crust,  press  edges 
light  together,  (it  is  nice  to  tie  a  cloth  around  each  one),  put  into 
kettle  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  boil  half  an  hour,  taking  care 
that  the  water  covers  the  dumplings.  They  are  also  very  nice  steamed. 
To  bake,  make  in  same  way,  using  a  soft  dough,  place  in  a  shallow 
pan,  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  place 
in  a  pan  which  is  four  or  five  inches  deep  (do  not  have  the  dump- 
lings touch  each  other);  then  pour  in  hot  water,  just  leaving  top  of 
dumplings  uncovered.      To  a  pan  of  four  or  five  dumplings,  add 


228  BUDDINOS  AND  SA  VCE& 

one  tea-cup  sugar  and  half  a  tea-cup  butter;  bake  from  balf  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  If  water  cooks  away  too  much,  add  more. 
Serve  dumplings  on  platter  and  the  liquid  in  sauoe^boat  for  dress- 
ing.   Fresh  or  canned  peaches  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Rolled  Apple  Dumplinqb. 
Peel  and  chop  fine  tart  apples,  make  a  crust  of  one  cup  rich  but- 
termilk, one  tea-spoon  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  roll;  roll  half  an 
inch  thick,  spread  with  the  apple,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar  and  cin* 
namon,  cut  in  strips  two  inches  wide,  roll  up  like  jelly-cake,  set  up 
the  rolls  in  a  dripping-pan,  putting  a  tea-spoon  butter  on  each,  put 
in  a  moderate  oven,  and  baste  them  often  with  the  juice. 

Bird's-nest  Puddikg. 

Pare  and  core  without  quartering  enough   quick-cooking  tart 

apples  to  fill  a  pudding-pan  ;  make  a  custard  of  one  quart  milk  and 

the  yolks  of  six  eggs ;  sweeten,  spice,  pour  over  apples,  and  bake ; 

when  done,  use  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stifiT  with  six  tablespoons 

white  sugar;  spread  on  the  custard,  brown  lightly,  and  serve  either 

hot  or  cold.     If  necessary,  apples  may  be  baked  a  short  time  before 

adding  custard. 

Brown  Betty. 

Put  a  layer  of  sweetened  apple  sauce  in  a  buttered  dish,  add  a 
few  lumps  butter,  then  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  sprinkled  with  a 
little  cinnamon,  then  layer  of  sauce,  etc.,  making  the  last  layer  of 
crumbs ;  bake  in  oven,  and  eat  hot  with  cold,  sweetened  cream.-^ 
Mrs.  T,  J,  Buxton^ 

Rice  Apples. 

Boil  half  a  pound  rice  in  a  custard-kettle  till  tender  m  one  quart 
milk,  sweetened  with  half  tea-cup  sugar;  pare  and  core  with  apple* 
corer  seven  or  eight  good-cooking  apples,  place  in  slightly  buttered 
baking-dish,  put  a  tea-spoon  of  jam  or  jelly  into  each  cavity,  and 
fill  with  rich  cream  ;  put  the  rice  in  around  apples,  leaving  top  un- 
covered ;  bake  thirty  minutes,  then  cover  with  the  whites  of  two 
Qgg8»  sifti  on  sugar,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Serve 
with  sweetened  cream. — Mrs,  S.  M.  Ouy,  Meehanicsburg, 

Bread  Pudding. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  quart  bread-crumbs,  four  eggs,  four  table- 
spoons  sugar ;  soak  bread  in  half  the  milk  until  soft ;  m»4i  fine» 


PUDDINGS  AND  SA  UCES.  229 

add  the  rest  of  milk,  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  and  a  tea- 
cup raisins ;  bake  one  hour,  serve  warm  with  warm  sauce  or  maple 
sugar  hard  sauce;  or,  slice,  butter,  and  spread  bread  with  preserves 
or  jellj,  place  nicely  in  a  baking-dish.  Make  a  custard  of  one  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  while  boiling 
poor  it  over  bread.     Place  in  oven  and  bake  till  brown,  eat  with  or 

ivithout  sauce. 

Blackberry  Mush. 

To  two  quarts  ripe  berries  add  one  and  a  half  pints  boiling  water, 
and  one  pound  sugar ;  cook  a  few  moments,  then  stir  in  a  pint  of 
wheat  flour,  boil  a  few  moments  longer,  put  in  greased  mold  to 
cool,  and  serve  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. — AKsa  JET.  D.  Martin, 
Hew  York  OUy. 

CORN-BTARCH    PUDDING. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  table-spoons  com* 
starch,  three  of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  the  milk  in  a  pan  or 
small  bucket,  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  on  the  stove,  and  when 
it  reaches  the  boiling  point  add  the  sugar,  then  the  starch  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped  to  a 
rtiff  froth ;  beat  it,  and  let  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  into  tea- 
cups, filling  about  half  full,  and  set  in  cool  place.  For  sauce,  make 
a  boiled  custard  as  follows:  Bring  to  boiling  point  one  pint  of  milk, 
add  three  table-spoons  sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  thinned  by  add- 
ing one  table-spoon  milk,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  thickens;  flavor 
with  two  tea-spoons  lemon  or  two  of  vanilla,  and  set  to  cool.  In 
serving,  put  one  of  the  molds  in  a  sauce^ish  for  each  person,  and 
pour  over  it  some  of  the  boiled  custard.  Or  the  pudding  may  be 
Baade  in  one  large  mold. 

To  make  a  chocolate  pudding,  flavor  the  above  pudding  with 
vanilla,  remove  two-thirds  of  it,  and  add  half  a  cake  of  chocolate 
wftened,  mashed,  and  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Put  a  layer  of 
^  the  white  pudding  into  the  mold,  then  the  chocolate,  then  the 
^t  of  the  white ;  or  two  layers  of  chocolate  may  be  used  with  a 
white  between ;  or  the  center  may  be  cocoa  (made  by  adding  half 
a  cocoa-nut  grated  fine),  and  the  outside  chocolate;  or  pine-apple 
chopped  fine  (if  first  cooked  in  a  little  water,  the  latter  makes  a 
JMce  dressing),  or  strawberries  may  be  used. — Mrs.  D.  Buxton, 


I 

230  PUDDINGS  AND  SA  UCE8. 


Cream  Pudding. 

Stir  together  one  pint  cream,  three  ounces  sugar,  the  yolks  of 

three  eggs,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  add  the  well-beaten  whites, 

stirring  lightly,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pie-plate  on  which  has 

been  sprinkled  the  crumbs  of  stale  bread  to  about  the  thickness  of 

an  ordinary  crust;  sprinkle  over  the  top  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs 

and  bake. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  egg,  cup  sweet  milk,  tea. 
spoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  two  tea-spoons  cream  tartar  in  the 
flour,  three  cups  flour,  half  tea-spoon  extract  of  lemon.  Sprinkle 
a  little  sugar  over  the  top  just  before  putting  in  the  oven,  bake  in 
a  small  bread-pan,  and  when  done  cut  in  squares,  and  serve  with 
sauce  made  of  two  table-spoons  butter,  cup  sugar,  table-spoon  flour 
wet  with  a  Utile  cold  water  and  stirred  until  like  cream;  add  a  pint 
boiling  water,  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  stirrings  all  the  time. 
After  tiiking  from  the  fire,  add  half  tea-spoon  extract  of  lemon. 
Nutmeg  may  be  used  in  place  of  lemon.  What  is  left  of  the  pud- 
ding and  sauce  may  be  served  cold  for  tea. — Mtb.  Howard  Voebwrym 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  three  ounces  grated  chocolate,  one  cup 
sugar,  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  scald  milk  and  chocolate  together,  and, 
when  cool,  add  sugar  and  es;gi^y  and  bake.  When  done,  put  beaten 
whites  and  iive  table-spoons  sugar  on  top,  and  .set  in  oven  to  brown. 
Or,  boil  one  })int  milk,  add  half  cup  butter,  one  of  sugar,  and  three 
ounces  grated  chocolate ;  pour  this  over  two  slices  of  bread  soaked 
in  water ;  when  cool,  add  the  weU-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  bake, 
and  when  done,  sprejid  over  the  whites  beaten  with  sugar,  and 
brown  in  oven.   Serve  hot  or  cold. — Mis8  Greeley  Chnibbs,  Biehrmmd, 

Cocoa-nut  Pudding. 

Grate  one  cocoa-nut,  saving  the  milk  if  perfectly  sweet,  boil  a 
quart  of  milk,  and  pour  upon  it,  abiding  five  eggs  beaten  with  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  one  table-spoon  butter,  add  a  little  salt,  two  tea* 
spoons  vanilla  extract,  and  milk  from  nut,  and  bake  in  a  pudding* 
dish  lined  with  rich  paste.     This  is  excellent  baked  like  pie  with 


PUDDINGS  AND  SA  UCE8.  231 

under  cnist  only.  A  plainer  yet  good  pudding  is  made  by  pouring 
one  and  one-balf  pints  boiling  milk  over  one  pint  bread-crumbs 
and  one  cup  dessicated  cocoa-nut  mixed  ;  add  two  table-spoons  sugar 
and  nutmeg  to  flavor;  bake. — Mrs.  T,  B.  John&OTiy  Lagrange,  Term. 

Enouwh  Carrot  Pudding. 
Odc  pound  grated  carrots,  three-fourths  pound  chopped  suet,  half 

pound  each  raisins  and  currants,    four  table-spoons  sugar,   eight 

table-spoons  flour,  and  spices  to  suit  the  taste.     Boil  four  bom's, 

place  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. — 

Mn,  E.  A.  W.,  Washington  f  D,  G, 

Delmonico  Pudding. 
A  quart  milk,  three  table-spoons  corn-starch  dissolved  in  cold 

milk,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  beaten  well,  six  table-spoons  sugar. 

Boil  three  or  four  minutes,  pour  into  a  pudding-dish  and  bake  about 

half  an  hour;  beat  whites  of  eggs  with  six  tablenspoons  sugar,  put 

over  top,  and  return  pudding  to  oven  until  it  is  a  delicate  brown. — 

Mn.  J.  HoUandy 

EsTELLE  Pudding. 
Three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  and  a  half  table-spoons  sugar^  two 

of  hutter,  three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk,  one  of  raisins  chopped  fine, 
one  table-spoon  baking  powder,  flour  to  make  it  the  consistency  of 
cake  batter ;  or,  one-half  measure  each  of  Hor«ford's  Bread  Prepar- 
ation and  one  coffee-cup  flour;  steam  thirty-five  minutes,  and  serve 
with  cold  cream  sauce. — Mrs.  Andrew  Wilson 

Simple  Fruit  Puddings. 
Stew  currants,  or  any  small  fruits,  fresh  or  dried,  with  sugar  to 

taste,  and  pour  hot  over  thin  slices  of.  baker's  bread  with  crust  cut 

off,  making  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  bread,  and  leaving  a  thick 

layer  of  fruit  for  the  last     Put  a  plate  on  top,  and  when  cool  set 

on  ice ;  serve  with  sifted  sugar,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

This  pudding  is  delicious  made  with  Boston  or  milk  crackers, 

split  open,  and  stewed  apricots  or  peaches,  with  plenty  of  juice,  ar- 

longed  as  above.     Or  another  way  is  to  toast  and  butter  slices  of 

bread,  pour  over  it  hot  stewed  fruit  in  alternate  layers,  and  serve 

wann  witn  rich  hot  sauce. — Mrs,  L.  8.  TF. 

Fig  Pudding. 
Half  pound  figs,  quarter  pound  grated  bread,  two  and  a  half 


232  FVDDINOS  AND  SAl  fCE& 

ounces  powdered  BUgar,  three  ounces  butter,  two  eggs,  one  tea-cap 
milk;  chop  figs  fine  and  mix  with  butter,  and  by  degrees  add  the 
other  ingredients;  butter  and  sprinkle  a  mold  with  bread-crumbe, 
pour  in  pudding,  cover  closely,  and  boil  for  three  hours;  serve  with 
lemon  sauce. — Florence  Woods  Hunk. 

Half-hour  Pudding. 
Beat  four  table-spoons  butter  to  a  cream  with  half  a  pmt  pow- 
dered sugar ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beating  them  in  thor- 
oughly, then  a  rounded  half  pint  of  corn  meal,  and  the  whiles  of 
the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  well,  and  bake  in  a  pudding 
dish,  well  buttered.     Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 
Warm  a  pint  of  uwlasses  and  pint  of  milk,  stir  well  together, 
beat  four  egg^iy  and  stir  gradually  into  molasses  and  milk ;  .add  a 
pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  and  Indian  raeal  sufficient  to  make 
a  thick  batter ;  add  a  tea-spoon  pulverized  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  and  stir  all  together  thoroughly ;  dip 
cloth  into  boiling  water,  shake,  flour  a  little,  turn  in  the  mixture, 
tie  up,  leaving  room  for  tiie  pudding  to  swell,  and  boil  three  hours ; 
serve  hot  with  sauce  made  of  drawn  butter,  wine,  and  nutmeg. — 
Mrs.  A.  E.  Brand, 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 
A  quart  sweet  milk,  an  ounce  butter,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  tea- 
cup corn  meal,  half  pound  raisins,  fourth  pound  sugar ;  scald  milk 
and  stir  in  meal  while  boiling ;  let  stand  until  blood  warm,  stir  all 
well  together ;  bake  one  and  a  half  hours,  and  serve  with  sauce. — 
Mrs,   Carrier. 

Ki!5s  Pudding. 

Boil  one  quart  sweet  milk  in  custard-fcectie,  stir  into  it  four  heap- 
ing table-spoons  sugar  and  four  table-ftpoons  com  starch,  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  water  or  milk,  and  added  to  the  well-beaten  and 
strained  yolks  of  four  ep:gs.  Have  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  tea-cup  pulverized  sugar  and  one  tea-spoon  essence 
of  vanilla,  spread  on  top  of  purldinjr,  set  in  a  quick  oven,  and  brown; 
take  out,  sprinkle  with  grated  cocoa-nut,  set  dish  away  in  a  oool 


PUDDINGS  AND  SA  UCES.  233 

phoe;  serve  cold  after  three  or  four  hours.     The  sweet  liquor  which 
aetdes  to  the  bottom  in  cooling,  serves  as  a  sauce.  — Mrs.  W  E,  Baxter. 

Lemox  Pudding. 
Stir  into  yolks  of  six  eggs  one  cup  sugar,  half  a  cup  water,  and 
the  grated  yellow  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons ;  soften  in  warm 
water  six  crackers  or  some  slices  of  cake,  lay  in  bottom  of  a  baking- 
dish,  pour  custard  over  them,  bake  till  firm ;  beat  whites  of  eggs  to 
a  froth,  add  six  table-spoons  sugar,  and  beat  well ;  when  custard  is 
done,  pour  frosting  over  it,  return  to  the  oven  and  brown.  Eat 
either  warm  or  cold. — Mrs,  Walter  Mitchell,  Gallipolis. 

Delicious  Lemon  Pudding.  . 
The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  three  well  rounded  table-spoons  fiour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  pint 
rich  milk  ;  mix  the  flour  and  part  of  the  milk  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  the  juice  and  rind  of  lemon,  the  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  well-beaten, 
the  rest  of  the  milk  (after  having  rinsed  out  the  egg  with  it),  line 
plate  with  puff-paste  one-fourth  inch  thick,  pour  in  custard,  bake 
m  a  quick  oven  until  done.  Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two 
table-spoons  sugar,  spread  over  the  top,  return  to  oven  and  brown. 
Serve  with  very  cold  cream ;  or,  for  a  very  nice  dish,  add  whipped 
eream.  This  is  a  rich  and  not  an  expensive  pudding.  The  recipe 
makes  sufficient  for  six.-rMrs.  Col.  Woods,  Oreensburg^  Pa. 

Mabch  Pudding. 
One  cup  dried  apples,  cup  molasses,  one  and  one-fourths  cup  flour, 
fcorth  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one  tearspoon  each  of  soda  and  cinna- 
mon, half  tea-spoon, cloves;  wash  and  soak  apples  over  night,  cut 
fine  and  mix  with  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  add  molasses 
and  spice ;  mix  egg,  butter  and  flour  together ;  stir  soda  with  apples 
and  molasses;  add  and  bake  immediately;  serve  hot  with  sauce  made 
of  half  cup  butter  and  one  cup  sugar,  beaten  smooth  and  flavored 
with  nutmeg,  lemon  or  vanilla.— Mm  lAzzis  March,. 

Minute  Pudding. 
Take  sweet  milk,  or  half  water  and  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  let  boil,, 
■tir  m  wheat  flour,  as  in  making  corn-meal  mush,  until  same  thick- 
l^ttB  as  mush :  remove  from  fire,  and  serve  at  once  with  sweetened 


234  PUDDINGS  AND  SA  UCES. 

cream  flavored  with  nutmeg.  Some  think  it  improved  by  adding 
blackberries,  raspberries  or  cherries,  either  canned  or  fresh,  just 
before  taking  from  stove. ^* 

MoLAJBSEs  Pudding. 
Three  cups  of  flour,  one  each  of  molasses,  melted  butter  and  hot 
water ;  one  teanspoon  soda ;  steam  three  hours ;  serve  with  a  sauoe 
of  butter  and  sugar  worked  to  a  cream,  with  hot  water  added  to 
make  it  the  proper  consistency,  and  flavored'  with  vanilla.  Some 
add  a  tea-cup  raisins. — Mrs.  Jenks,  Bellrfantaine, 

One-two-three-four  Pudding. 
One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  four  eggs  (beaten 
separately),  one  cup  sweet  milk,  and  two  tea-spoons  baking-powder; 
flavor  with  nutmeg,  and  bake  in  pudding  or  cake  mold ;  leave  in 
mold  till  next  day,  when  steam  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  over  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  and  serve  with  hot  sauce. — Mrs,  C,  A.  Malin, 

Orange  Pudding. 
Two  large  oranges  pared  and  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  square,  put 
in  bottom  of  pudding  dish,  2x>ur  over  them  one  cup  white  sugar, 
then  make  a  plain  com  starch  pudding  without  sugar,  and  pour  it 
over  the  orange  and  sugar.     Let  stand  and  cool. 

Peach  Roll^. 
Stew  dried  fruit,  sweeten,  and  flavor  to  taste;  make  a  good 
baking-powder  crust,  roll  very  thin,  spread  fruit  on,  putting  thin 
slices  of  butter  on  the  fruit,  roll  crust  up,  place  in  a  pan  four  or 
five  inches  deep,  to  three  or  four  rolls  add  one  cup  sugar,  and  a 
half  cup  butter ;  pour  in  hot  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Bak^ 
half  an  hour. — Mrs,  J.  D,  Simmons,  Povdoioc,  Miss. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding. 
One  quart  seeded  raisins,  pint  currants,  half  pint  citron  cut  up, 
quart  of  apples  peeled  and  chopped,  a  quart  of  fr^sh  and  nicely 
chopped  beef-suet,  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  heaping  quart  of  stale 
bread-crumbs,  eight  eggs  beaten  separately,  pint  sugar,  grated  nut- 
•meg,  tea-spoon  salt ;  flour  fruit  thoroughly  from  a  quart  of  flour, 
then  mix  remainder  as  follows:  In  a  large  bowl  or  tray  put  the 
eggs  with  sugar,  nutmeg  and  milk,  stir  in  the  fruit,  bread-crumbs 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES,  235 

and  suet,  oue  after  the  other  until  all  are  used,  adding  enough  flour 
to  make  the  fruit  stick  together,  which  will  take  about  all  the  quart ; 
dip  pudding-cloth  in  boiling-water,  dredge  on  inside  a  thick  coating 
of  flour,  put  in  pudding  and  tie  tightly,  allowing  room  to  swell,  and 
boil  from  two  to  three  hours  in  a  good-sized  pot  with  plenty  of  hot 
water,  replenishing  as  needed  from  tea-kettle.  When  done,  turn  in 
a  large  flat  dish  and  send  to  table  with  a  sprig  of  holly,  or  an^  bit 
of  evergreen  with  bright  berries,  stuck  in  the  top.  Serve  with  any 
pudding-sauce.  This  recipe  furnishes  enough  for  twenty  people, 
but  if  the  family  is  small,  one-half  the  quantity  may  be  prepared, 
or  it  is  equally  good  warmed  over  by  steaming.  For  sauce,  cream  a 
half  pound  sweet  butter,  stir  in  three-quarters  pound  brown  sugar, 
and  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg ;  simmer  for  a  few  moments  over  a 
filow  fire,  stirring  almost  constantly ;  when  near  boiling  add  a  half 
pint  bottled  grape-juice,  and  serve  a^r  grating  a  little  nutmeg  on 
the  surface. — Mrs.  Ex>-Crov,  CokCy  Texas, 

ENGLteH  Plum  Pudding. 
Beat  six  yolks  and  four  whites  of  eggs  very  light,  and  add  to  them 

a  tumbler  of  sweet  milk ;  stir  in  gradually  one-fourth  pound  grated 

or  chopped  stale  bread,  a  pound  flour,  three-quarters  pound  sugar, 

and  a  pound  each  of  beef-suet  chopped  very  fine,  currants  nicely 

washed  and  dried,  and  stoned  raisins,  well  floured ;  stir  well,  then 

add  two  nutmegs,  a  table-spoon  mace,  one  of  cinnamon  or  cloves,  a 

wine-glass  brandy,  a  tea-spoon  salt,  and  finally  another  tumbler  of 

milk.     Boil  in  bowls  or  molds  five  hours,  and  serve  with  sauce 

made  of  drawn  butter,  wine,  sugar,  and  nutmeg.     These  will  keep 

for  months;  when  wanted,  boil  one  hour  before  using.     A  pound  of 

eitron  or  blanched  sweet  almonds  adds  to  the  richness  of  the  pud- 

liing,  but  may  be  omitted. — Mrs.  Collier 

Egoless  Plum  Pudding. 
Heaping  cup  bread-crumbs,  two  cups  flour,  one  of  suet  chopped 

fine,  one  of  raisins,  one  of  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  table-spoon 

soda,  tea-spoon  salt,  one  of  cloves,  and  one  of  cinnamon ;  boil  two 

and  a  half  hours  in  a  two-quart  pail,  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 

or  steam  for  the  same  time.     For  sauce  take  one  cup  white  sugaj^ 

batter  size  of  an  egg,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  white  of  an 

egg.—Mr^  Mary  Lee  Gere. 


236  P  UDDINQS  AND  SA  UOESL 

Prairie  Plum  Pudding. 

Stew  together  a  tea-cup  raisius  and  half  tea-cup  citron ;  prepare 
dish  with  butter,  put  in  layer  of  sponge-cake  (any  kind  of  cake 
will  do,  or  Boston  crackers,  sliced  and  buttered  may  be  used,  or 
even  stale  Graham  bread-crumbs),  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on, 
with  cake  or  bread  for  last  layer ;  pour  over  it  custard  made  of  a 
quait  of  milk  and  yolks  of  four  eggs,  sweetened  to  taste ;  bake  until 
on  inserting  a  knife  the  milk  has  become  water.     Make  a  frosting 
of  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  four  table-spoons  pulverized  sugar, 
spread  on  pudding,  brown  in  oven,  and  serve  with  sauce  made  of 
one  tea-cup  white  sugar,  two-thirds  pint  water,  one  table-spoon  but- 
ter,  one  tea-spoon  corn-starch  mixed  smoothly  with  a  little  cold  milk; 
let  sugar  and  water  boU,  add  the  rest,  and  allow  to  boil  a  few  mo- 
ments,  then  add  the  white  of  one  well-beaten  egg  with  one  tea-spoon 
vanilla  essence. — Mn.  M.  E.  Oodard. 

Plum  Pudding. 

Beat  together  half  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  and  one  tea-spoon  butter, 
add  three  pints  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt,  six  crackers  rolled  fine,  one 
cup  raisins,  and  a  half  sheet  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  water; 
season  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  pudding-dish. — Mrs^ 
Dr.  Stall, 

Poor  Man's  Pudding. 

A  quart  of  milk,  half  tea-cup  rice,  salt  to  taste,  and  one  tea-cup 
sugar  (some  add  table-spoon  butter) ;  place  in  oven  while  cold,  stir- 
ring occasionally  while  the  rice  is  swelling.  Bake  quite  slowly  two 
hours  or  more.  It  should  be  cream-like  when  done,  and  must  be 
taken  immediately  from  oven.  A  good  test  is  to  tip  dish ;  if  rice 
and  milk  move  together  it  is  done ;  if  not  sufficiently  cooked  the 
milk  runs ;  if  neither  move  it  b  done  too  much.  To  vary  this,  a 
small  cup  raisins  and  a  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanUIa  may  be  added. 
This  is  a  delicious  pudding  when  properly  baked,  and  may  be  eaten 
warm  or  cold  with  sugar  or  cream. — Mn.  I/ndse  lAnocIn^  New  Rtd" 

land,  lU. 

PiNE-AFPLB  Pudding. 

Butter  a  pudding-dish,  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  with  slices 
of  stale  cake  (sponge-cake  is  best),  pare  and  slice  thin  a  large  pine- 
apple, place  in  the  dish  first  a  layer  of  pine-apple,  then  strew  witli 


PULDINOS  AND  SAUCES.  237 

'y  then  more  pine-apple,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used,  pour  over 
a  small  tea-cup  water,  and  cover  with  slices  of  cake  which  have  been 
dipped  in  cold  water ;  cover  the  whole  with  a  buttered  plate,  and 
bake  slowly  for  two  houi-s.— ifrs.  Wm.  Smith,  Jackaonville,  JPTo. 

Culpepper  Pudding. 

Stew  six  large  pippin  apples  (pared,  cored,  and  quartei^d)  until 
tender ;  drain  and  mash  smooth  witli  two  table-spoons  butter.  Crumb 
quarter  pound  s])onge  cake ;  put  layer  of  cake  and  apple  alternately, 
using  as  seasoning  ibr  both  six  table-spoons  sugar,  juice  and  grated 
lind  of  one  lemon,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Beat  well  six  eggs,  and  stir  in 
gradually ;  mix  well,  put  in  a  dish,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Prune  Pudding. 
Scald  one  pound  French  prunes,  let  them  swell  in  the  hot  water 
till  sofl,  drain  and  extract  the  stones,  spread  on  a  dish  and  dredge 
with  flour;  take  a  gill  milk  from  a  quart,  stir  into  it  gradually 
eight  table-spoons  sifted  flour ;  beat  six  eggs  very  light  and  stir  by 
degrees  into  the  remainder  of  quart  of  milk,  alternating  with  the 
batter;  add  prunes,  one  at  a. time,  stir  the  whole  very  hard,  boil 
two  hours,  and  serve  with  wine-sauce  or  cream. — Mrs.  Emma  L.  Fay. 

Quick  Puff  Pudding. 
Stir  one  pint  flour,  two  tea-spoons  baking-powder,  and  a  little  salt 
into  milk  until  very  soft;  place  in  steamer  well-greased  cups,  put  in 
each  a  spoonful  of  batter,  then  one  of  berries,  steamed  apples,  or 
any  sauce  convenient,  cover  with  another  spoonful  of  batter  and 
steam  twenty  minutes.  This  pudding  is  delicious  made  with  fresh 
strawberries,  and  eaten  with  a  sauce  made  of  two  eggs,  half  cup 
butter  and  cup  of  sugar,  beaten  thoroughly  with  a  cup  boiling  milk; 
and  one  of  strawberries. — Mrs.  B.  T.  Skinner,  BatUe  Greek,  Mich. 

Queen  of  Puddings. 
One  pint  fine  sifted  bread-crumbs,  one  quart  milk,  one  cup  sugar, 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  (some  add 
grated  rind  of  lemon) ;  bake  until  done — ^but  do  not  allow  to  become 
watery — and  spread  "with  a  layer  of  jelly.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  to 
a  stifi^  froth  with  five  table-spoons  sugar,  and  juice  of  one  lemon, 
Bpread  on  the  top  and  brown.    Oood  with  or  without  sauce,  and 


238  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUOESi 

very  good  cold.     Make  a  hard  sauce  for  it  as  follows :  One  cup 

very  light  brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  grated  rind  and  the 

juice  of  one  lemon ;  beat  until  very  light.     Vanilla  may  be  used 

instead  of  the  lemon. 

Or,  for  cocoa-nut  pudding,  soak  half  cup  dessicated  cocoa-nut  in 

boiling  hot  milk  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  and  add  to  the  pudding, 

baking  and  finishing  as  above ;  or  for  orange  pudding  add  a  half 

dozen  grated  oranges. — Mrs,  Prof,  R.  P.  Kidder ^  Cape  Oirardeau, 

MissourL 

KiCE  Pudding. 

To  a  cup  of  rice  boiled  in  a  custard-kettle  in  a  pint  of  water  (sea* 
soned  well  with  salt)  until  dry,  add  a  pint  of  milk  in  which  a  little 
com  starch  has  been  dissolved,  and  boil  again;  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beaten  witii  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  stir  well  together,  and  lastly 
add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Place  in  a  dish,  and 
bake  slowly  in  the  oven ;  when  done,  spread  over  the  top  the  whites 
beaten  with  two  table-spoons  sugar,  and  brown  in  oven.  A  cup  of 
raisins  may  be  added  just  before  baking.  Or,  after  boiling  the  rice 
with  the  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  add  a  lump  of  butter  and  place  a 
layer  of  the  rice,  about  an  inch  thick,  in  a  buttered  dish  sprinkled 
with  bread-crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  pe^hes  (either  fresh  or  canned), 
repeating  until  dish  is  full,  leaving  rice  for  the  last  layer ;  bake 
slowly  for  half  an  hour,  and  when  done,  cover  with  the  beaten  whites, 
as  aoove.  Or,  after  prepanng  the  rice  as  above,  add  pine-apple, 
chopped  fine,  or  oranges,  or  dried  cherries ;  mix  thoroughly,  and 
bake  and  finish  as  above. — Mrs.  J.  R,  IT., 

Rice  Snow  Baij^. 

Boil  one  pint  rice  until  soft  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  tea-spoon 
salt;  put  in  small  cups,  and  when  perfectly  cold  place  in  a  dish. 
Make  a  boiled  custard  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  sweet 
milk,  and  one  tea-spoon  corn-starch;  flavor  with  lemon.  When 
cold,  pour  over  the  rice-balls  half  an  hour  before  serving.  This  is 
a  very  simple  but  nice  dessert. — Miss  Louise  Skinner. 

Sago  and  Apple  Pudding. 
Pare  six  apples  and  punch  out  the  cores,  fill  holes  with  cinnamon 
and  sugar,  using  two  tesrspoons  cinnamon  to  a  cup  of  sugar ;  take 


PUDDINGS  AND  8A  UCES,  239 

one  t:ible-spoon  sago  to  each  apple,  vash  it  thoroughly  and  let  Boak 
an  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover  the  apples,  pour  water  and  sago 
over  the  apples,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Suet  Pudding. 
One  cup  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one  of  suet  chopped  fine, 
or  half  a  cup  melted  butter,  one  of  raisins,  half  cup  currants,  two 
and  a  half  cups  flour,  half  tea-spoon  soda;  mix  well,  salt  and  spice 
to  taste,  and  steam  two  hours. — Mrs.  S.  W.  Case. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. 

To  half  tea-cup  of  tapioca,  add  one  and  one-half  pints  cold  water, 
kt  it  stand  on  the  fire  till  cooked  dear,  stirring  to  prevent  burning, 
remove,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  wine  and  nutmeg;  pour  the  tapi- 
oca into  a  deep  dish  in  which  have  been  placed  six  or  eight  pared 
and  cored  apples,  bake  until  apples  are  done,  and  serve  cold  with 
cream. — Mrs,  S.  C.  Lee, 

Whobtleberry  Pudding. 

One  quart  berries,  pint  molasses,  cup  milk,  tea-spoon  soda,  one 
pound  and  two  ounces  flour,  on^  tea-spoon  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon, 
and  one  nutmeg ;  boil  two  and  a  half  hours. — Mrs.  Emma  Fay. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 

Wash  and   simmer  gentlj  half  a  pound  sweet  potatoes;  when 

half  done  take  out,  peel,  and  when   cold  grate  them.     Stir  to  a 

eream  a  scant  cup  butter  and  six  table-spoons  sugar  (white),  add 

a  grated  nutmeg,  a  tea-spoon  beaten  mace,  juice  and  grated  peel  of 

a  lemon,  a  wine-glass  wine,  one  of  brandy.     Stir  these  ingredients 

together.     Beat  four  eggs  and  add  to  mixture,  alternating  with  the 

potato,  a  little  at  a  time.     At  the  last,  stir  all  very  hard,  pour  in  a 

buttered  dish  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour.     To  be  eaten 

cold. — From  Temn. 

Quince  Pudding. 

Pare  and  grate  six  large  ripe  quinces,  mix  well  with  half  a  pint 

cream  and  one  cup  sugar,  beat  yolks  of  seven  eggs  and  whites  of 

two,  adding  two  wine-glasses  of  rose-water;  when  all  is  well  mixed 

bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  buttered  dish.     Beat  whites  of 

five  eggs  with  three  table-spoons  powdered  sugar,  put  on  top  of 

puddingy  and  brown  a  few  minutes. — Mm  Tyson. 


240  8AUGE& 


SAUCES. 


Brandt  Sauce. 
Cream  together  four  heaping  table-spoons  of  sugar  (white)  and 
four  table-spoons,  well-rounded,  of  soft  butter;  with  this  mix  a 
gill  of  lemon  brandy,  or  half  the  quantity  of  brandy,  juice  of  one 
lemon  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg;  stir  slowly  into  half  a  cup  boiling 
water,  let  simmer  a  moment,  pour  into  a  warm  tureen. — May 
Corbiriy  Covington,  Ky. 

BUTTEKLESS  SauCE. 

Place  one-half  a  gill  of  milk  in  a  pan  in  boiling  water;  when 

scalding  put  in  half  a  pint  of  powdered  sugar  mixed  with  the  yolka 

of  two  eggs,  stir  until  thick  as  boiled  custard,  take  off;  when  cool 

add   flavoring.     Just  before  serving   mix  the  well-beaten  whites 

lightly  with  the  sauce. 

Cider  Sauce. 

Mix  two  table-spoons  butter  with  an  even  table-spoon  of  flour ; 

stir  in  half  a  pint  of  brown  sugar,  iind  half  a  gill  of  boiled  cider ; 

add  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  mix  well,  let  it  simmer  a  few  moments ; 

serve  hot. 

Cocoa-nut  Sauce. 

Two  table-spoons  butter,  cup  of  sugar,  table-spoon  of  flour,  milk 
of  one  cocoa-nut,  with  a  small  piece  grated. 

Cream  Sauoe. 
One  tea-cup  powdered  white  sugar,  scant  half  tearcup  butter,  half 
tea-cup  rich  cream;  beat  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  cream, 
stir  the  whole  into  half  tearCup  boiling  water,  place  on  stove  for  a 
fow  moments,  stirring  it  constantly,  take  off  and  add  flavoring. 

Fine  French  Sauce. 
Cream  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  (scant)  of  butter ;  add  beaten 
yolk,  or  white  if  preferred,  and  a  gill  of  wine ;  simmer  a  few  mo- 
ments, grate  nutmeg  over  it  when  taken  from  fire. — Mrs,  Harrison, 

Plain  Cream  Sauce. 
One  pint  cream,  three  table-spoons  brown  sugar,  and  half  a  small 
nutmeg  grated. 


SAUCES.  241 

EvERY-DAY  Sauce. 
To  one  pint  boiling  water,  add  heaping  tea-cup  augar,  tablenspoon^ 
batter  (see  General  Directions),  pinch  of  salt,  and  table-spoon  com 
starch  dissolved  in  cold  water ;  season  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla,  boil 
IiaJf  an  hour,  and  if  good  and  well  cooked  it  will  be  very  dear. 
Or,  to  a  table-spoon  of  currant  jelly,  add  a  table-spoon  of  hot 
water ;  beat  well  and  add  to  the  above  just  before  serving,  omitting 
all  other  flavoring.     Or,  add  a  tearspoou  of  raspberry  syrup. 

Foaming  SAute. 

Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  vmlt  tea-cup  of  sugar 

m  a  little  water,  let  it  boil,  stir  in  one  glass  wine,  and  then  the 

whites  of  the  three  eggs;  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Carrie  Olader^  Chir 

tago,  HI. 

Jelly  Sauce. 

Melt  one  ounce  of  sugar  and  two  table-spoons  grape  jelly  over  the 

fire  in  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  into  it  half  a  tea-spoon 

com  starch  dissolved  in  a  half  cup  cold  water,  let  come  to  a  boU, 

and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.     Any  other  fruit  jelly  may  be  used 

instead  of  grape. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons;  beat  all 
together,  and  just  before  serving  add  pint  boiling  water ;  set  on 
stove,  and  when  at  boiling  point,  serve.  Never  boil  sauce  afttr 
adding  lemon,  a^  it  makes  it  bitter.  Some  add  one-third  cup  but- 
ter and  table-spoon  com  starch. 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce. 
Melt  over  a  slow  fire,  in  a  small  tea-cup  of  water,  half  a  pint 
^ple  sugar;  let  it  simmer,  removing  all  scum;  add  four  table- 
^ns  butter  mixed  with  a  level  tea-spoon  flour,  and  one  of  grated 
DQtnieg;  boil  for  a  few  moments,  and  serve  with  boiled  puddings. 
^»  make  a  **  hard  sauce  *'  of  one  table-spoon  butter  to  two  of  sugar. 

Mm^EHAHA  Sauce. 

^t,  in  a  two  quart  bowl,  four   table-spoons  butter  and   two 

"^irds  pint  brown  sugar,  to  a  cream,  with   a  wooden  spoon ;  then 

^dfour  table-spoons  sweet  cream,  then  the  jui«e  and  gratl^d  rind 
16 


242  SAUCES. 

of  a  large  lemon ;  place  the  bowl  on  top  of  the  tea-kettle  half  full 
of  boiling  water;  when  melted  to  a  thick  creamj  froth,  serve. 

Orange  Hard  Sauce. 
Select  a  thin  orange,  cut  the  skin  into  six  equal  parts,  by  cutting 
through  the  skin  at  the  stem  end  and  passing  the  knife  around  the 
orange  to  nearly  the  blossom  end ;  loosen  and  turn  each  piece  down 
and  remove  the  orange.  Extract  juice  and  mix  it  with  yellow  sugar 
(prepared  by  dropping  a  drop  or  two  of  "  gold  coloring  "  on  white 
sugar  while  stirring  it)  till  a  ball  can  be  formed,  which  place  inside 
the  orange-peel  and  serve.  The  ''gold  coloring"  may  be  omitted. 
Lemon  sauce  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Pine-apple  Sauce. 
Mix  two  table-spoons  butter  and  four  heaping  table-spoons  sugar 
(some  add  white  of  an  egg),  flavor  with  pine-apple  (or  any  other 
flavoring),  form  a  pyramid,  and  with  a  tea-spoon  shape  it  like 
a  pine-apple.  \  Or,  to  a  grated  pine-apple  add  a  very  little  water, 
simmer  until  quite  tender,  mix  with  it,  by  degrees,  half  its  weight 
in  sugar,  boil  gently  for  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

Strawberry  Sauce. 
Half  tea-cup  of  butter^  one  and  a  half  tea-cups  of  sugar,  and  one 
pint  of  strawberries  mashed  till  juicy.     (Canned  berries  may  be 
substituted  for  fresh  ones).     Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream; 
then  stir  in  the  berries  and  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg. 

Vinegar  Sauce. 
One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  and  a  half  table-spoons  flour  in  a 
little  water,  two  table-spoons  vinegar,  quarter  of  a  grated  nutmeg, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt;  pour  over  this  one  and  a  half  pints  boiling 
water,  and  boil  ten  minutes ;  just  before  taking  from  stove  add  one 
dessertspoon  of  butter. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Collins,  Urbana.  ^ 

WfflPPED  Cream  Sauce. 
Whip  a  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  add  the  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs,  sweeten  to  taste;  place  pudding  in  center  of  dish,  and 
surround  with  the  sauce ;  or  pile  up  in  center  and  surroand  with 
molded  blanc-mange,  or  fruit  puddings. — Mrs.  Cfeo.  Sever,  Cedar 
Rapids,  la. 


PRESERVES. 


Preserves,  to  be  perfect,  must  be  made  with  the  greatest  care. 
Economy  of  time  and  trouble  is  a  waste  of  fruit  and  sugar.  The 
best  are  made  by  putting  only  a  small  amount  of  fruit  at  a  time 
in  the  syrup,  after  the  latter  has  been  carefully  prepared  and  clar- 
ified, and  the  fruit  neatly  pared.  Peel  peaches,  pears,  quinces  and 
apples,  and  throw  into  cold  water  as  you  peel  them  to  prevent  their 
turning  dark.  It  is  difficult  to  watch  a  large  quantity  so  as  to 
insure  its  being  done  to  a  turn. 

The  old  rule  is  **  a  pouud  of  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit; "  but  since 
the  introduction  of  cans,  three-quarters  of  a  pouud  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit  is  sufficient,  and  even  less  is  sometimes  used,  the 
necessity  for  an  excess  of  sugar  having  passed  away,  as  preserves 
may  be  less  sweet,  with  no  risk  of  fermentation,  if  sealed.  Either 
tin  or  glass  cans  may  be  used,  care  being  taken  to  make  the  sealing 
perfect. 

Quinces,  pears,  citrons,  watermelon-rinds,  and  many  of  the  smaller 
fi^ts,  such  as  cherries,  currants,  etc.,  harden  when  put,  at  first, 
wto  a  syrup  made  of  their  weight  of  sugar.  To  prevent  this  they 
should  be  cooked  till  tender  in  water,  or  in  a  weak  syrup  made 
from  a  portion  only  of  the  sugar,  adding  the  remainder  afterward. 
In  preserving  fruits,  such  as  apples,  peaches,  tomatoes,  plums  and 
strawberries,  and  other  fruits,  which  are  likely  to  become  too  soft  in 
cooking,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  the  fruit,  or  to 
^^^  over  it  a  part  or  all  the  sugar,  and  aUow  it  to  stand  a  few 
bouTB;  by  either  method  the  juice  is  extracted,  and  the  fruit  hard« 


244  PRESERVES. 

ened.  Another  approved  method  of  hardening  fruit  is  to  skim  it 
out  of  syrup  after  cooking  a  few  minutes,  and  lay  it  in  the  hot  sun 
two  or  three  hours,  and  then  pour  over  it  the  boiling  syrup.  Long 
protracted  boiling  destroys  the  pleasant  natural  flavor  of  the  ^rulty 
and  darkens  it 

Preserves  should  boil  gently  to  avoid  the  danger  of  burning,  and 
in  order  that  the  sugar  may  thoroughly  penetrate  the  fruit  A  good 
syrup  is  made  iu  the  proportion  of  half  pint  water  to  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Use  loaf  or  granulated  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  and  water 
over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and,  just  before  it  boils,  stir  in 
the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  lightly  with  two  table-spoons  water ;  and, 
as  it  begins  to  boil,  remove  the  scum  with  great  care ;  boil  until  no 
more  scum  arises,  and  then  add  fruit  Or  the  white  of  the  egg 
may  be  mixed  thoroughly  with  the  dry  sugar  in  the  kettle,  and  the 
boiling  water  poured  over,  when  all  impurities  will  immediately  rise 
to  the  surface  with  the  egg,  then  boil  slowly,  or  rather  simmer,  until 
the  preserves  are  clear.  Take  out  each  piece  with  a  skimmer  and 
lay  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool,  or  else  put  in  the  jars  at  once.  Stew  the 
syrup,  skimming  ofl*  the  scum  which  rises,  until  it  *'  ropes'*  from  the 
spoon.  If  the  preserves  are  already  in  the  jar  pour  the  syrup  over 
them  and  seal ;  if  on  dishes,  return  them  to  the  syrup  and  boil  up 
once  before  putting  up.  This  is  merely  a  matter  of  choice,  and  we 
have  never  found  any  difl*erence  in  the  results  of  the  two  methods. 
Preserves  may  be  made  from  canned  fruit  (and  some  prefer  to  do 
this  rather  than*  make  in  the  hot  season),  using  less  sugar  than  the 
rule.  When  preserving  canned  peaches  or  apples,  it  is  an  improve- 
ment to  add  a  few  sliced  oranges  or  lemons.  When  berries  or  small 
fruits  are  done,  take  up  with  a  little  strainer,  and  place  in  cans; 
if  a  cup  is  used,  it  is  impossible  to  free  them  from  the  syrup. 

Marmalades,  or  the  diflerent  butters,  will  be  smoother  and  bettei 
flavored,  and  will  require  less  boiling,  if  the  fruit  (peaches,  quinces, 
oranges  and  apples  make  the  best)  li  well  cooked  and  mashed  before 
adding  either  sugar  or  cider.  I£  Is  important  to  stir  constantly  with 
an  apple-butter  stirrer. 

In  making  either  preserves  or  marwlades,  follow  the  directions 
as  regards  kettle,  sugar,  and  putting  uj^,  already  g^ven  for  jellies 
and  jamsy  covering  at  once,  but  not  putting  away  tiU  cold.     When 


PRESER  VES,  245 

preeerves  are  candied,  set  jar  in  kettle  of  cold  water,  and  let 
boil  for  an  hour ;  or  pat  them  in  a  crock  kept  for  that  purpose, 
set  in  oven  and  boil  a  few  minutes,  watching  carefully  to  pre- 
vent burning.  When  specks  of  mold  appear,  take  them  off 
carefully,  and  scald  preserves  as  above  directed. 

Dried  iruits  are  much  better  and  require  less  boiling,  if  clean  soft 
water  is  poured  over  them  and  allowed  to  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  boil  until  tender  in  the  water,  sweetening  five  minutes 
before  removing  from  the  stove. 

To  dry  corn  or  fruits  nicely,  spread  in  shallow  boxes  or  box  cov- 
ers, and  cover  with  mosquito  netting  to  prevent  flies  reaching  them. 
When  dry,  put  up  in  jura  and  cover  closely,  or  in  paper  sacks. 
Dried  peaches  are  better  when  halved  and  the  cavities  sprinkled 
with"  sugar  in  drying.     The  fruit  must  be  good,  however,  as  poor 
firuit  can  not  be  redeemed  by  any  process.     Another  excellent  way 
is  to  dry  them  in  the  oven,  and,  when  about  half  done,  place  in  a 
crock  a  layer  of  peaches  alternately  with  a  layer  of  sugar.     Cherries 
and  currants  are  excellent  dried  ds  follows:  Put  in  jars  first  a  layer 
of  fruit,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound 
sugar  to  pound  of  fruit,  let  stand  over  night,  place  them  to  boil, 
skimming  off  aU  scum,  let  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  skim  out  and 
spread  on  dishes  to  dry  in  the  sun,  or  by  the  fire,  turning  frequently 
nntil  dry ;  then  place  on  pans  in  oven,  stirring  with  the  hand  often 
until  the  heat  is  too  great  to  bear.     They  may  then  be  packed  in 
jars  with  sugar,  or  put  away  in  paper  sacks,  or  stone  crocks  with  a 
cloth  tied  dose  over  the  top,  and  are  an  excellent  substitute  for 
raisins  in  puddings  or  mince-pies. 

The  secret  of  keeping  dried  fruit  is  to  exdvde  the  light,  and  to  keep 
in  a  dry  and  cool  place.  Paper  sacks,  or  a  barrel  or  box  lined  with 
paper,  are  secure  against  moths.  Eeheating  fruit  makes  it  dark  in 
color,  and  impairs  its  flavor.  Always  fill  a  fruit-can,  and  keep  for 
present  use,  to  avoid  opening  the  large  jars  often. 


ApfLE  Preserves. 

Take  threeHjuarters  of^  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  apples;  mftke 
A  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water  in  which  root  ginger  (bruised  and 


246  PEESERVES. 

tied  ID  a  bag)  has  been  boiled  until  the  strength  is  well  extracted, 
add  a  little  lemon-juice  or  sliced  lemon,  ski  in  off  all  scum,  and  boil 
in  the  syrup  a  few  apples  at  a  time,  until  they  are  transparent,  and 
place  in  jar.  When  all  are  done,  boil  the  syrup  until  thick,  pour, 
boiling  hot,  over  the  apples,  and  cover  closely.  Well-flavored  fruit, 
not  easily  broken  in  cooking,  should  be  used.  The  ginger  may  be 
omitted  if  disliked. 

Carrot  Sweetmeats. 

Boil  small  fine-grained  carrots  in  water  till  tender ;  peel  and  grate, 
add  sugar,  slips  of  citron,  spices  if  preferred,  and  wine ;  simmer 
slowly  together  and  put  away  in  jars.  Very  wholesome  for  chil- 
dren and  very  much  liked.  The  juice  from  any  canned  fruit  sold 
would  take  the  place  of  the  simple  wine  used  here — the  alcoholic 
mixtures  sold  in  America  being  utterly  unfit  for  household  con- 
sumption.— Mrs.  S.  Willifston,  Heidelberg,  Germany. 

CHERRY  Preserves. 
Choose  sour  ones — the  early  Richmond  is  good — seed  all  very 
carefully,  allow  an  amount  of  sugar  equal  to  the  fruit;  take  half 
the  sugar,  sprinkle  over  the  fruit,  let  stand  about  an  hour,  pour  into 
a  preserving-kettle,  boil  slowly  ten  minutes,  skim  out  the  cherries, 
add  rest  of  sugar  to  the  syrup,  boil,  skim  and  pour  over  the  cher- 
ries ;  the  next  day  drain  ofi*  the  syrup,  boil,  skim  if  necessary,  add 
the  cherria«(,  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  seal  up  in  small  jars. — Mrs. 

J.  M,  Southard. 

Citron  Preserves. 

Pare  off  rind,  seed,  cut  in  thin  slices  two  inches  long,  weigh,  and 

put  in  preserving  kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover ;  boil  one  hour, 

take  out  the  melon,  and  to  the  water  in  kettle  add  as  much  sugar 

as  there  is  melon  by  weight,  boil  until  quite  thick,  replace  melon, 

add  two  sliced  lemons  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  boil  twenty  minutes, 

take  out,  boil  syrup  until  it  is  very  thick  molasses,  and  pour  it  over 

the  fruit. — Mrs,  J.  H:  Rcbvnson, 

Fig  Preserves. 
Gather  fruit  when  fully  ripe,  but  not  cracked  open ;  place  in  a 
prorated  tin  bucket  or  wire  basket,  and  dip  for  a  moment  into  a 
deep  kettle  of  hot  and  moderately  strong  lye  (some  prefer  letting 


PRESERVES.  247 

them  lie  an  hour  in  lime-water  and  afterwards  drain) ;  make  a  syrup 
in  proportion  of  one  pound  sugar  to  one  of  fruit,  and  when  the  figs 
are  well  drained,  put  them  in  syrup  and  boil  until  well  cooked ; 
remove,  boil  syrup  down  until  there  is  just  enough  to  cover  firuit ; 
put  firuit  back  in  syrup,  let  all  boil,  and  seal  up  while  hot  in  glass 
or  porcelain  jars. — Ed-Oov.  Steams^  Florida. 

Grape  Preserves. 
Pick  grapes  from  the  stems,  pop  pulps  from  the  skins,  doing  U\  * 
at  a  time,  one  in  each  hand  between  the  thumb  and  forefinger.  Put 
pulp  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  stew  gently  untU  the  seeds  are  loosen- 
ed; then  strain  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  weigh  it  with  the  skins, 
and  to  every  pound  of  this  allow  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar. 
Put  skins  and  juice  in  kettle,  cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly  until 
the  skins  are  tender ;  while  still  boiling  add  the  sugar,  and  move  the 
kettie  back,  as  it  must  not  boil  again ;  keep  very  hot  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then,  seeing  that  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  pour 
the  fruit  in  cans,  and  screw  down  the  covers  as  soon  as  possible. 

Pear  Preserves. 
Pare,  cut  in  halves,  core  and  weigh  (if  hard,  boil  in  water  until 
tender,  and  use  the  water  for  the  syrup),  allow  three-quarters 
pound  sugar  for  each  pound  fruit,  boU  a  few  moments,  skim,  and 
cool ;  when  luke-warm  add  pears,  and  boil  gently  until  syrup  has 
penetrated  them  and  they  look  clear ;  some  of  the  pieces  will  cook 
before  the  rest,  and  must  be  removed ;  when  done,  take  out,  boil 
down  syrup  a  little  and  pour  over  them  ;  a  few  cloves  stuck  here 
and  there  in  the  pears  add  a  pleasant  flavor.  Put  in  small  jars 
with  glass  or  tin  tops,  and  seal  with  putty. — Mm  Florence  WiUiams. 

Peach  Preserves. 
Take  any  fine  peaches  that  do  not  mash  readily  in  cooking,  pare 
carefiilly  and  remove  pits;  take  sugar  equal  in  weight  to  fruit, 
(or  if  to  be  sealed,  three-quarters  pound  sugar  to  the  pound  of  fruit), 
and  water  in  proportion  of  a  half  pint  to  each  pound  of  sugar. 
Boil  pits  in  the  water,  adding  more  as  it  evaporates,  to  keep  the 
proportion  good,  remove  pits,  add  the  sugar,  clarify,  and  when  the 
scum  ceases  to  rise,  add  the  fruit,  a  small  quantity  at  a  time ;  Qpok 
slowly  about  ten  minutes,  skim  out  into  a  jar,  add  more,  and  so  on 


248  PRESERVES. 

until  all  are  done,  and  then  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  all.  The 
next  day  drain  off  and  boil  syrup  a  few  minutes  only,  and  pour  back, 
repeating  daily  until  the  fruit  looks  clear.  Two  or  three  times  ia 
generally  sufficient  The  last  time  put  up  the  preserves  in  small  jars, 
and  secure  with  paper  as  directed  for  jellies.  K  to  be  sealed  in  cans, 
the  first  boiling  is  sufficient,  af\er  which  put  into  cans  and  seal  im- 
mediately. The  latter  plan  is  preferable,  as  it  takes  less  trouble 
and  less  sugar,  while  the  natural  flavor  of  the  fruit  is  better  re* 
tained.  Many  think  peach  preserves  much  nicer  if  made  with 
maple  sugar.  Clingstone  peaches  are  preserved  in  the  same  way 
whole,  except  that  they  must  be  put  on  in  clear  water  and  boiled 
until  so  tender  that  they  may  be  pierced  with  a  silver  fork  before 

adding  the  sugar. 

Plum  Preserves. 

Allow  equal  weights  sugar  and   plums ;  add  sufficient  water  to 

the  sugar  to  make  a  thick  syrup,  boil,  skim,  and  pour  over  the 

plums  (previously  washed,  pricked  and  placed  in  a  stone  jar),  and 

cover  with  a  plate.     The  next  day  drain  off  syrup,  boil,  skim,  and 

pour  in  over  plums ;  repeat  this  for  three  or  four  days,  place  pluma 

and  syrup  in  the  preserving-kettle,  and  boil  very  slowly  for  half  an 

hour.     Put  up  in  stone  jars,  c>over  with  papers  like  jellies,  or  seal 

in  cans. — Mn,  J,  JET.  Shearer, 

Plum  Sweetmeats. 

When  Damson  plums  are  perfectly  ripe,  peel  and  divide  them, 
taking  out  the  stones ;  put  them  over  a  gentle  heat  to  cook  in  their 
own  juice ;  when  soft  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  return  to 
the  stove,  adding  just  enough  sugar  to  sweeten,  a  little  cinnamon, 
and,  when  nearly  done,  wine  in  quantity  to  suit  the  taste.  This  is 
done  more  to  keep  the  sweetmeats  than  for  the  flavor,  as  self-sealing 
cans  are  not  used  here,  and  all  preserves  are  pasted  up  with  the 
white  of  eggs.  The  common  wine  of  the  country  is  thin  and  sour 
and  is  much  used  in  cookery. — Mrs,  L.  S,  WiUiston,  Heiddberg^ 
Oermany. 

Quince  and  Apple  Preserves. 

Take  equal  weights  of  quinces  and  sugar,  pare,  core,  leave  whole 
or<;ut  up,  as  preferred,  boil  till  tender  in  water  enough  to  cover, 
carefully  take  out  and  put  on  a  platter,  add  sugar  to  the  water, 


PRESERVES.  249 

replace  finiit  and  boQ  slowly  till  clear,  place  in  jars  and  pour  syrup 
over  them.  To  increase  the  quantity  without  adding  sugar,  take 
half  or  two-ihirds  in  weight  as  many  fair  sweet  apples  as  there  are 
quinces,  pore,  quarter,  and  core ;  after  removing  quinces,  put  apples 
into  the  syrup,  and  boil  until  they  begin  to  look  red  and  clear,  and 
are  tender;  place  quinces  and  apples  in  jar  in  alternate  layers,  and 
cover  with  syrup.  For  the  use  of  parings  and  cores,  see  "  Quince 
Jelly."    Apples  alone  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

Strawbekry  Preserves. 
Put  two  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  bright  tin-pan  over  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  and  pour  into  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  when 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  hot,  put  in  fruit,  and  then  place  the  pan 
directly  on  the  stove  or  range  ;  let  boil  ten  minutes  or  longer  if  the 
fruit  is  not  clear,  gently  (or  the  berries  will  be  broken)  take  up  with 
a  small  strainer,  and  keep  hot  while  the  syrup  is  boiled  down  until 
thick  and  rich;  drain  off  the  thin  syrup  from  the  cans,  and  pour 
the  rich  syrup  over  the  berries  to  fill,  and  screw  down  the  tops  im« 
mediately.  The  thin  syrup  poured  off  may  be  brought  to  boiling, 
and  then  bottled  and  sealed,  to  be  used  for  sauces  and  drinks. 

Tomato  Preserves. 
Scald  and  peel  carefully  small  perfectly-formed  tomatoes,  not 
too  ripe  (yellow  pear-shaped  are  best),  prick  with  a  needle  to  pre- 
vent bursting,  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar  by  weight,  let  lie  over 
night,  then  pour  off  all  juice  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  boil  until 
it  is  a  thick  syrup,  clarifying  with  white  of  an  egg ;  add  tomatoes 
and  boil  carefnlly  until  they  look  transparent.  A  piece  or  two  of 
root-gingev,  or  one  lemon  to  a  pound  of  fruit  sliced  thin  and  cooked 
with  the  fruit,  may  be  added. 

Watermelon  Preserves. 
Pare  off  outside  green  rind,  cut  in  pieces  two  inches  long,  weigh, 
throw  into  cold  water,  skim  out,  add  a  heaping  tea-spoon  each  of 
salt  and  pulverized  aluin  to  two  gallons  of  rinds,  let  stand  until  salt 
and  alum  dissolve,  fill  the  kettle  with  cold  water,  and  place  on  top 
of  stove  where  it  will  slowly  come  to  boiling  point,  covering  with  a 
l&rge  plate  so  as  to  keep  rinds  under ;  boil  until  they  can  be  easily 
pierced  with  a  fork,  drain  them  from  the  water,  and  put  into  a  syrup 


250  PRESERVES, 

previoualy  prepared  as  follows :  Bruise  and  tie  in  a  muslin  bag  feur 
ounces  of  ginger-root,  and  boil  in  two  or  three  pints  of  water  until 
it  is  strongly  flavored.  At  the  same  time  boil  in  a  little  water 
until  tender,  in  another  pan,  three  or  four  sliced  lemons ;  make  a 
syrup  of  the  sugar  and  the  water  in  which  the  lemons  and  the  gin- 
ger-root were  boiled,  add  the  rinds  and  slices  of  lemon  to  this  and 
boil  slowly  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Citrons  may  be  pre- 
ixired  in  the  same  way,  by  paring,  coring  and  slicing,  or  cutting 
into  fanciful  shapes  with  tin  cuttera  made  for  the  purpose. 

Apple  Butter. 
Boil  one  barrel  of  new  cider  down  half,  peel  and  core  three 
bushels  of  good  cooking  apples ;  when  the  cider  has  boiled  to  half 
the  quantity,  add  the  apples,  and  when  soft,  stir  constantly  for 
from  eight  to  ten  hours.  If  done  it  will  adhere  to  an  inverted 
plate.  Put  away  in  stone  jars  (not  earthen  ware),  covering  first 
with  writing-paper  cut  to  fit  the  jar,  and  press  down  closely  upon 
the  apple  butter ;  cover  the  whole  with  thick  brown  paper  snugly 
tied  down. — Mm  SaraJi  Tlumison,  Delaware, 

Egg  Butter. 
Boil  a  pint  of  molasses  slowly  about  fifleen  or  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  to  prevent  burning,  add  three  eggs  well  beaten,  stirring 
them  in  as  fast  as  possible,  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  partially  cool, 
and  flavor  to  taste  with  lemon. — Mrs.  Colbert,  Broadway. 

Lemon  Butter. 
Tea-cup  white  sugar,  three  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg, 
beat  well  together;  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  large  lemon, 
place  in  a  pan  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  stir  well  until  thick. 
This  may  be  made  up  in  quantity,  kept  for  a  long  time  in  bottles 
or  jars,  and  used  as  needed  for  filling  tarts,  etc. 

PuMPkm  Butter. 
Take  tlie  seeds  out  of  one  pumpkin,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil 
eofl ;  take  three  other  pumpkins,  cut  them  in  pieces  and  boil  them 
soft,  put  them  in  a  coarse  bag  and  press  out  juice;  add  juice  to 
first  pumpkin,  and  let  boil  ten  hours  or  more,  to  become  of  the 
thickness  of  butter ;  stir  often.  If  the  pumpkms  are  frozen,  the 
juice  will  come  out  much  easier. 


PRESERVES.     '  251 

Pie-plant  Butter. 
Allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  peeled  and  cut  up 
rhubarb ;  let  the  rhubarb  and  sugar  simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  or 
more  if  the  rhubarb  is  old  and  tough.     This  is  a  nice  preserve,  and 
children  should  be  encouraged  to  eat  it  during  the  winter. 

Obange  Mabmalade. 
Twelve  pounds  sour  oranges,  twelve  pounds  crushed  sugar ;  wash 
the  oranges  and  pare  them  as  you  would  apples ;  put  the  peel  in  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle  with  twice  its  bulk  or  more  of  cold  water; 
keep  it  covered,  and  boil  until  perfectly  tender;  if  the  water  boila 
away,  add  more;  the  peel  is  generally  very  hard,  and  requires 
several  hours  boiling ;  cut  the  oranges  in  two  crosswise,  and  squeeze 
out  tlie  juice  and  the  soft  pulp,  have  a  pitcher  with  a  strainer  in  the 
top,  place  in  a  two-quart  bowl-,  squeeze  the  thin  juice  and  seeds  in 
the  strainer  and  th^  rest  with  the  pulp  in  the  bowl,  drawing  the 
skin  as  you  squeeze  it  over  the  edge  of  the  tin  strainer,  to  scrape  off 
the  pulp,  then  pour  all  the  juice  and  pulp  on  the  sugar ;  the  white 
Bkins  must  be  covered  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  boiled 
half  an  hour,  drain  the  water  on  the  sugar,  put  the  white  skins  in 
the  colander,  four  or  five  together,  and  pound  off  the  soft  part,  of 
which  there  must  be  in  all  two  pounds  and  four  ounces,  put  this  with 
the  sugar  and  juice ;  when  the  peel  is  tender  drain  it  from  the  water, 
ftiid  choose  either  of  these  three  modes :  Pound  it  in  a  mortar,  chop 
it  in  a  bowl,  or  cut  it  in  delicate  shreds  with  a  pair  of  scissors.    There 
is  still  another  way,  which  saves  the  necessity  of  handling  the  peel 
after  it  is  boiled ;  it  is  to  grate  the  yellow  rind  from  the  orange,  then 
tie  it  ill  a  muslin  bag,  and  boil  until  soft,  which  you  can  tell  by 
rubbing  a  little  of  it  between  the  thumb  and  finger ;  it  is  then  ready 
for  the  other  ingredients ;  put  the  whole  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  or  in 
a  bright  tin  preserving-pan,  and  boil  about  an  hour;  when  it  begins 
to  thicken  it  must  l)e  tried  occasionally,  by  letting  a  little  cool  in  a 
spoon  laid  on  ice.     To  prevent  its  burning,  pass  the  spoon  often  over 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle ;  when  it  is  thick  as  desired  put  it  in  tum- 
blers and  cover  with  paper. — Mrs,  Elizaheih  S.  MUler  in  "In  the 

Peach  Marmalade. 
Choose  ripe,  well-flavored  fruit,  and  it  is  well  to  make  with  pre- 


252  •  PRESERVES. 

serves,  reserving  for  marmalade  those  that  are  too  soft.  The  flavor 
is  improved  by  first  boiling  the  pits  in  the  water  with  which  the 
syrup  is  to  be  made.  Quarter  the  peaches  and  boil  thirty  minutes 
before  adding  sugar,  stirring  almost  constantly  from  the  time  the 
peaches  begin  to  be  tender;  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  three- 
fourths  pound  sugar  to  one  pound  fruit,  continue  to  boil  and  stir 
for  an  hour  longer,  and  put  up  in  jars,  pressing  paper  over  them  as 

directed  for  jellies. 

Quince  Mabmalade. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  quinces,  cut  in  little  squares,  measure 
and  allow  an  equal  amount  of  sugar ;  place  the  fruit  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  just  water  enough  to  cover,  boil  till  tender,  and  skim 
out  carefully ;  make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  the  water  in  which 
the  quinces  were  boiled,  let  come  te  boiling  point,  skim  well,  and 
drop  the  quinces  gently  in ;  boil  fifteen  minutes  and  dip  out  care- 
fully into  jelly-bowls  or  molds.  The  syrup  forms  a  jelly  around 
the  fruit  so  that  it  can  be  turned  out  on  a  dish,  and  is  very  palat- 
able as  well  as  ornamental.  In  this  way  quinces  too  defective  for 
preserves  may  be  used. — Mrs,  Mary  A,  Cooper, 

Dried  Apple  Sauce. 
Look  over,  wash  thoroughly  and  soak  fifteen  minutes  in  clean 

warm  water ;  drain,  cover  with  cold  soft  water,  place  on  the  stove, 
let  boil  slowly  two  to  four  hours,  mash  fine,  sweeten,  and  season 
with  cinnamon  very  highly.  Never  add  sugar  until  about  five  min- 
utes before  removing  from  the  stove,  otherwise  the  fruit  will  be  tough- 
ened and  hardened.  Follow  the  same  directions  in  preparing  dried 
peaches,  only  do  not  mash  or  season  so  highly.  Cook  in  porcelain, 
without  stirring.     A  few  raisins  added  improve  the  apple  sauce. 

Boiled  Cider  Apple  Sauce. 
Pare,  quarter  and  core  applas  sufiicient  to  fill  a  gallon  porcelain 

kettle,  put  in  it  a  half  gallon  boiled  cider,  let  it  boil.     Wash  the 

apples  and  put  in  kettle,  place  a  plate  over  them,  and  boil  steadily 

but  not  rapidly  until  they  are  thoroughly  cooked,  testing  by  taking 

one  from  under  the  edge  of  the  plate  with  a  fork.     Do  not  remove 

the  plate  until  done,  or  the  apples  will  sink  to  the  bottom  and 

burn.     Apples  may  be  cooked  in  sweet  cider  in  the  same  way.— 

Mrs.  W.  W.  W. 


PRESERVES.  253 

Preserved  Citron. 

Boil  the  citron  in  water  until  it  is  clear  and  soft  enough  to  be 
easily  pierced  with  a  fork ;  take  out,  put  into  a  nice  syrup  of  sugar 
and  water,  and  boil  until  the  sugar  has  penetrated  it.  Take  out 
and  spread  on  dishes  to  dry  slowly,  sprinkling  several  times  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  turning  until  it  is  dried  enough.  Pack  in 
jars  or  boxes  with  sugar  between  the  layers. — Mrs,  I.  N.  Beem, 
Bourion  0>.,  Ky. 

Tomato  Figs. 

Scald  and  skin  pear-shaped  (or  any  small-sized)  tomatoes,  and  to 
eight  pounds  of  them  add  three  pounds  brown  sugar ;  cook  without 
water  until  the  sugar  penetrates  and  they  have  a  clear  appearance, 
take  out,  spread  on  dishes,  and  dry  in  the  sun,  sprinkling  on  a  little 
syrup  while  drying ;  pack  in  jars  or  boxes,  in  layers  with  powdered 
sugar  between.  Thus  put  up  they  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time, 
and  are  nearly  equal  to  figs.  Peaches  may  be  preserved  in  the 
same  way. — Mrs.  John  Samuels,  Covington,  Ky. 

Dried  Currants  (or  Conserve). 

One  pint  sugar  to  a  pint  of  stemmed  ripe  currants ;  put  them 
together  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  a  layer  of  currants  at  the  bottom; 
^\iea  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  let  them  boil  one  or  two  minutes,  skim 
from  the  syrup,  and  spread  on  plates  to  dry  in  a  partly  cooled  oven. 
Boil  the  syrup  until  thickened,  pour  it  over  the  currants,  and  dry 
it  with  them.  Pack  in  jars  and  cover  closely.  Blackberries  may 
he  dried  in  the  same  manner.  An  economical  way  of  making  jelly 
is  to  boil  liquid,  skimming  well,  after  currants  are  taken  out,  until 
it  becomes  jelly,  and  then  put  away  in  jelly  glasses. — Mrs.  H.  A.,  Va. 

Pine-apple  Preserves. 

Wash  fruit,  and  boil  without  paring  until  tender;  take  out,  pare 
•nd  dice  lengthwise,  leaving  out  the  hard  center.  Pour  a  syrup 
(using  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit),  boiling  hot,  over  pine- 
apples, and  let  stand  until  the  next  morning.  Pour  off  syrup^ 
^il  until  nearly  thick  enough,  then  add  fruit,  and  boil  fifteen  or 
^wienty  minutes. 


PICKLES. 


In  making  pickles  use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar,  and  boil 
in  a  porcelain  kettle — ^never  in  metal.  A  lump  of  alum  size  of  a 
small  nutmeg,  to  a  gallon  of  cucumbers,  dissolved  and  added  to  the 
vinegar  when  scalding  the  pickles  the  first  time,  renders  them  crisp 
and  tender,  but  too  much  is  injurious.  Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  cellar, 
in  glass  or  stoneware ;  look  at  them  frequently  and  remove  all  soft 
ones ;  if  white  specks  appear  in  the  vinegar,  drain  off  and  scald, 
adding  a  liberal  handful  of  sugar  to  each  gallon,  and  pour  again 
over  the  pickles ;  bits  of  horee-radish  and  a  few  cloves  assist  in  pre* 
serving  the  life  of  the  vinegar.  If  put  away  in  large  stone  jars, 
invert  a  saucer  over  the  top  of  the  pickles,  so  as  to  keep  them  well 
under  the  vinegar.  The  nicest  way  to  put  up  pickles  is  bottling, 
sealing  while  hot,  and  keeping  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Many 
think  that  mustard-seed  improves  pickles,  especially  chopped, 
bottled,  and  mangoes,  but  use  it,  as  well  as  horse-radish  and 
cloves,  sparingly.  Never  put  up  pickles  in  any  thing  that 
has  held  any  kind  of  grease,  and  never  let  them  freeze.  Use 
an  oaken  tub  or  cask  for  pickles  in  brine,  keep  them  well  under,  and 
have  more  salt  than  will  dissolve,  so  that  there  will  always  be  plenty 
at  the  bottom  of  the  cask.  The  brine  for  pickles  should  be  strong 
enough  to  bear  an  egg ;  make  it  in  the  proportion  of  a  heaping  pint 
of  coarse  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Use  coarse  salt,  and  test  pickles 
by  tasting  before  putting  on  vinegar  (they  should  be  of  a  pleasant 
saltness) ;  if  not  salt  enough,  add  salt  to  brine  and  allow  them  to 
stand  until  they  have  acquired  the  proper  flavor ;  if  too  salt,  cover 
with  weak  vinegar,  and  let  stand  for  two  or  three  days,  drain,  add- 
ing strong  vinegar,  cither  hot  or  cold  according  to  recipes,  and  finish 
as  directed.  In  the  case  of  kegs  of  cucumbers  kept  in  brine  for 
a  long  time,  to  be  used  when  needed,  it  is  better  to  err  in  using  too 
much  salt,  as  this  may  be  corrected  by  adding  the  weak  vinegar, 
but  if  not  sufficiently  salted  the  pickles  will  be  insipid.     In  scalding 

(254) 


*■  • 


PICKLES,  255 

eacmnber  pickles  to  green  them,  some  use  cabbage  leaves,  covering 
bottom,  sides,  and  top  of  kettle.     A  medium  spicing  for  a  quart  of 
pickles  is  a  level  tea-spoon  of  peppercorns  (whole  black  peppers), 
the  same  of  allspice,  a  table-spoon  of  broken  stick  cinnamon,  half  a 
tearspoon  of  cloves,  mustard  seed,  or  horse-radish  chopped  fine,  and 
one  piece  of  ginger  root,  an  inch  long.     If  ground  cayenne  pepper 
is  used  instead  of  whole  peppers,  an  eighth  of  a  tea-spoon  is  enough. 
A  better  substitute  for  peppercorns  is  garden-peppers  cut  in  rings, 
in  proportion  of  two  rings  of  green  and  one  of  red  wfthout  seeds,  or 
a  level  tea-spoon,  when  finely  chopped,  to  a  quart  of  pickles.     These 
proportions  may  be  increased  or  decreased  to  suit  the  taste,  taking 
care  not  to  put  in  so  much  of  any  one  as  to  make  its  flavor  pre- 
dominate.    Ginger  is  the  most  wholesome  of  the  spices.     Cloves  are 
the  strongest,  mace  next,  then  allspice  and  cinnamon,  and,  of  course, 
less  of  the  stronger  should   be  used.     Pickles  are  not  famous  for 
wholesome  qualities,  even  when  made  with  the  greatest  care,  but  if 
they  must  be  eaten,  it  is  best  to  make  them  at  home.     Those  sold 
in  market  are  often  colored  a  beautiful  green  with  sulphate  of  cop- 
per, which  is  a  deadly  poison,  or  are  cooked  ih  brass  or  copper  ves- 
sels, which  produces  the  same  result  in  an  hidirect  w^ay.     Scalding 
or  parboiling  articles  to  be  pickled  makes  them  absorb  the  vinegar 
more  easily,  but  does  not  add  to  their  crij*pness.     Before  putting 
ihem  in  vinegar,  after  parboiling,  they  should  be  cold  and  'perfectly 
Jry.    Always  use  strong  vinegar,  or  the  pickles  will  be  insipid,  and 
it  should  be  scalding  hot  when  poured  on,  as  raw  vinegar  becomes 
ropy  and  does  not  keep  well.     As  heating  weakens  it,  vinegar  for 
pickles  should  be  very  strong^  and  should  only  be  brought  to  boiling 
^mt,  and  immediately  poured  on  pickles.     Keep  pickles  from  the 
&ir,  and  see  that  the  vinegar  is  at  least  two  inches  over  the  top  of 
pickles  in  the  jar.     A  dry  wooden  spoon  or  ladle  should  be  used  in 
lumdling  pickles,  and  is  the  only  one  that  should  touch  pickles  in  the 
jars.    If  the  vinegar  loses  its  strength  it  should  be  replaced  by  good, 
poured  over  scalding  hot.        

Pickled  Artichokes. 
Rub  off  outer  skin  with  a  coarse  towel,  and  lav  in  salt  water  for 
A  clay,  drain  and  pour  over  them  cold  spiced  vinegar,  adding  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  horw-radish  to  each  jar. 


256  PICKLES. 

Bean  Pickles. 

Pick  green  beaus  of  the  best  variety,  wlien  young  and  tender, 
string,  and  place  in  a  kettle  to  boil,  with  salt  to  taste,  until  they 
can  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  drain  well  through  a  colander,  put  in  a 
stone  jar,  sprinkle  with  cayenne  pepper,  and  cover  with  strong  cider 
vinegar;  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Bottled  Pickles. 

'  Wash  and  wipe  a  half  bushel  of  medium-sized  cucumbers,  suit- 
able for  pickling,  pack  close  in  a  stone  jar,  sprinkle  over  the  top  one 
pint  of  salt,  pour  over  a  sufficient  quantity  of  boiling  water  to  cover 
them,  place  a  cloth  over  the  jar,  and  let  stand  until  cold  (if  pre- 
pared in  the  evening,  let  stand  all  night),  drain  off  the  water,  and 
place  the  pickles  on  stove  in  cold  vinegar,  let  them  come  to  a  boil, 
take  out,  place  in  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  with  either  cold  or  hot 
vinegar.  They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days,  and  are  excel- 
lent It  is  an  improvement  to  add  a  few  spices  and  a  small  quan- 
tity of  sugar. 

To  bottle  th6m,  prepare  with  salt  and  boiling  water  as  above, 
drain  (when  cold),  and  .place  a  gallon  at  a  time  on  a  stove  in  enough 
cold  vmegar  to  cover  level  (need  not  be  very  strong),  to  which  a 
lump  of  alum  about  the  size  of  a  small  hickory-nut  (too  much  is 
injurious)  has  been  added.  Have  on  stove,  in  another  kettle,  a 
gallon  of  the  very  best  cider  vinegar,  to  which  add  half*  a  pint  of 
brown  sugar ;  have  bottles  cleansed  and  placed  to  heat  on  stove  in 
a  large  tin-pan  of  cold  water;  also  have  a  tin  cup  or  small  pan 
of  sealing-wax  heated ;  on  table,  have  spices  prepared  in  separate 
dishes,  as  follows:  Green  and  red  peppers  sliced  in  rings;  horse- 
radish roots  washed,  scraped,  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  black  and 
yellow  mustard  seed  (or  this  may  be  left  out),  each  prepared  by 
sprinkling  with  salt  and  pouring  on  some  boiling  water,  which  let 
stand  fifteen  minutes  and  then  draw  off;  stick  cinnamon  washed  free 
from  dust,  and  broken  in  pieces,  and  a  few  cloves.  When  pickles 
come  to  boiling  point,  take  out  and  pack  in  bottles,  mixing  with  them 
the  spices  (use  the  cloves,  horse-radish  and  mustard  seed,  sparingly); 
put  in  a  layer  of  pickles,  then  a  layer  of  spices,  shaking  the  bot- 
tles occasionally  so  as  to  pack  tightly ;  when  Aill  cover  with  the 


PICKLES.  257 

boQing  hot  yinegar  from  the  other  kettle  (using  a  bright  ftmnel  and 
bright  tin  cup),  going  over  them  a  second  time  and  filling  up,  in 
order  to  supply  shrinkage,  for  the  pickles  must  be  entirely  cov- 
ered with  the  vinegar.  Put  in  the  corks,  which  should  fit  very 
^ugly^  li^  ^^^^  bottle  (wrap  a  towel  around  it  to  prevent  burn- 
ing the  hands),  and  dip  the  corked  end  into  the  hot  sealing-wax; 
proceed  in  this  manner  with  each  bottle,  dipping  each  a  second 
time  into  the  wax  so  that  they  may  be  perfectly  secure.  If  corks 
seem  too  small,  throw  them  in  boiling  water ;  if  too  large,  pound 
the  sides  with  a  hammer.  The  tighter  they  fit  in  the  bottles  the 
better  for  the  pickles.  Glass  cans,  the  tops  or  covers  of  which  have 
become  defective,  can  be  used  by  supplying  them  with  corks. 
Pickles  thus  bottled  are  far  more  wholesome  than,  and  are  really 
superior  to,  the  best  brand  of  imported  pickles,  and,-  by  having 
materials  in  readiness,  prepared  as  directed,  the  process  is  neither 
difficult  nor  tedious.  It  requires  two  persons  to  successfully  bot- 
tle pickles. — Mrs.  Florence  W.  Hush,  Minneapolis. 

Chow  Chow  Pickles. 
Let  two  hundred  small  cucumbers  stand  in  salt  and  water  closely 
covered  for  three  days.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes  in  half  a  gallon 
best  cider  vinegar,  one  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  one  of  black 
mustard  seed,  one  of  juniper  berries,  one  of  celery  seed  (tying  each 
ounce  separately  in  swiss  bags),  one  handful  small  green  peppers, 
two  pounds  sugar,  a  few  small  onions,  and  a  piece  alum  half  the 
size  of  a  nutmeg ;  pour  the  vinegar  while  hot  over  the  cucumbers, 
let  stand  a  day,  repeating  the  operation  three  or  four  mornings. 
Mix  one-fourth  pound  mustard  with  the  vinegar,  pour  over  cucum- 
bers, and  seal  up  in  bottles. — 3{rs.  Ada  Estelle  Bever. 

Chow  Chow. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  half  peck  string  beans,  quarter  peck 

small  white  onion?,  quarter  pint  green  and  red  peppers  mixed,  two 

large  heads  cabbage,  four  table-spoons  white  mustard  seed,  two  of 

white  or  black  cloves,  two  of  celery  seed,  two  of  allspice,  one  small 

box  yellow  mustard,  pound  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of  turmeric;  slice 

the  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night  in  brine  that  will  bear  an 

%;  then  squeeze  out  brine,  chop  cabbage,  onions  and  beans,  chop 
1? 


268  PICKLES. 

tomatoes  separately,  mix  with  the  spices,  put  all  in  porcelain  ktsttle 
cover  with  vinegar,  and  boil  three  hours. 

CaUUPLOWER  rtCKLES. 

Choose  such  as  are  fine  and  of  full  size,  cut  away  all  th«  leaves, 
and  pull  away  the  flowers  by  bunches;  soak  ix,  brine  that  will  float 
an  egg  for  two  days,  drain,  put  in  bottles  with  whole  black  pepper, 
allspice,  and  stick  cinnamon ;  boil  vinega*-,  and  with  it  mix  mustard 
smoothly,  a  little  at  a  time  and  just  tiiick  enough  to  run  into  the 
jars,  pour  over  the  cold  cauliflow^  and  seal  while  hot.  An  equal 
quantity  or  less  of  small  white  cuions,  prepared,  as  directed  in  recipe 
for  onion  pickles,  may  be  ad<Ied  before  the  vinegar  is  poured  over. 

C^hERY  Pickles. 

Put  together  in  a  powselain-lined  kettle  two  quarts  chopped  white 
cabbage,  two  quarts  chopped  celery,  three  quarts  vinegar,  half  ounce 
each  of  crushed  waite  ginger  root  and  turmeriCj  fourth  pound  white 
mustard  seed,  two  table-spoons  salt,  five  of  sugar;  cook  slowly  sev- 
eral hours  UKiil  cabbage  and  celery  are  tender. 

Cucumber  Pickles. 
Cover  /\iP.  bottom  of  cask  with  common  salt ;  gather  the  cucum- 
bers everr  other  day,  early  in  the  morning  or  late  in  the  evenings 
as  i^  does  not  injure  the  vines  so  much  then  as  in  the  heat  of  the 
day ;  cut  the  cucumbers  with  a  short  piece  of  the  stem  on,  carefully 
'laying  them  in  a  basket  or  pail  so  as  not  to  bruise ;  pour  cold  water 
over  and  rinse,  beuig  careful  not  to  rub  off*  the  little  black  briers,  or 
in  any  way  to  bruise  them,  as  that  is  the  secret  of  keeping  them 
perfectly  sound  and  good  for  any  length  of  time.  Lay  them  in  a 
^jask  three  or  four  inches  deep,  cover  with  salt,  and  repeat  the 
operation  until  all  are  in  ;  pour  in  some  water  with  the  first  layer— 
ifter  this  the  salt  will  make  sufficient  brine.  Now  spread  a  doth 
over  them,  then  a  board  with  a  stone  on.it  When  a  new  supply 
of  cucumbers  is  to  be  added,  remove  stone,  board  and  cloth,  wash 
them  very  clean,  and  wipe  every  particle  of  scum  from  the  top  of 
the  pickles  and  the  sides  of  the  cask;  throw  away  any  sofl  ones, 
as  they  will  spoil  the  rest;  now  put  in  the  fresh  cucumbers,  layer 
by  layer,  with  salt  to  cover  each  layer.  Wh^  cask  is  nearly  full, 
cover  with  salt,  tuck  cloth  closely  around  the  edges,  placing  the 
boai'd  and  weight  on  top;  cover  cask  closely,  and  the  pickles  will  be 


P1CKLE&  259 

perfect  for  two  or  three  years.  Cucumbers  must  always  be  put  in 
the  salt  as  soon  as  picked  from  the  vines,  for  if  they  lie  a  day  or 
two  they  will  not  keep.  Do  not  be  alarmed  at  the  heavy  scum 
that  rises  on  them,  but  be  careful  to  wash  all  off  the  board  and 
cloth.  When  wanted  for  pickling,  take  off  weight  and  board,  care- 
iiilly  lift  cloth  with  scum  on  it,  wash  stone,  board  and  cloth  clean, 
and  wipe  all  scum  off  the  cucumbers  and  sides  of  cask,  take  out 
as  many  as  are  wanted,  return  the  cloth,  board  and  weight,  nnd 
cover  closely.  Place  the  cucumbers  in  a  vessel  large  enough  to 
hold  two  or  three  times  as  much  water  as  there  are  pickles,  cover 
with  cold  water  (some  use  hot),  change  the  water  each  day  for  three 
days,  place  the  porcelain  kettle  on  the  fire,  fiU  half  full  of  vine- 
gar (if  vinegar  is  very  strong  add  half  water),  fill  nearly  full  of 
cucumbers,  the  largest  first  and  then  the  smaller  ones,  put  in  a 
lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  with 
a  wire  or  wooden  spoon  so  as  not  to  cut  the  cucumbers ;  after  boil- 
ing one  minute,  take  out,  place  in  a  stone  jar,  and  continue  until 
all  are  scalded,  then  pour  over  them  cold  vinegar.  In  two  or  three 
days,  if  the  pickles  are  too  salt,  turn  off  the  vinegar  and  put  on 
fresh,  add  a  pint  of  brown  sugar  to  each  two  gallons  pickles,  a  pod 
or  two  of  red  pepper,  a  very  few  cloves,  and  some  pieces  of  horse- 
ladish.     The  horse-radish  prevents  a  white  scum  from  rising. 

Choppkd  Pickles. 

Take  a  peck  green  ton^atoes,  wash  clean,  cut  away  a  small  piece 
from  each  end,  slice  inul  place  in  a  large  wooden  bowl,  chop  fine, 
place  in  a  crock  and  mix  salt  with  them  (half  pint  to  a  peck),  let 
stand  twenty -four  hours,  and  drain  thoroughly ;  take  twice  or  three 
times  ao  much  cabbage  as  there  is  chopped  tomatoes,  chop  fine,  mix 
salt  in  same  proportions,  add  enough  water  to  make  moist,  and  let 
stand  same  time  as  tomat>pes;  drain,  place  again  in  separate  jars, 
cover  each  with  cold  weak  vinegar;  after  twenty-four  hours  drain  cab- 
bage well,  pressing  hard  to  extract  all  the  juice;  place  tomatoes  and 
the  vinegar  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  let  them  boil  for  three  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time,  pour  out,  and  when  cold,  place  in  a  towal 
and  wring  and  press  until  perfectly  dry;  now  mix  tomatoes  and 
cabbage  together,  take  a  double  handful  at  a  time,  squeeze  as  tightly 
as  pussible,  and  place  in  a  dry  crock ;  take  the  stone  jar  in  which 


260  PICKLES. 

thej  are  to  be  pickled,  place  in  it  a  layer  of  tomatoes  and  cab> 
bage,  scatter  over  with  chopped  peppers,  whole  mustard  seed,  and 
horse-radish,  then  another  layer  of  tx^matoes  and  cabbage,  next  spice, 
and  so  on  until  jar  is  almost  full,  occasionally  sprinkling  with  cay- 
enne pepper;  cover  with  strong  cider  vinegar,  to  each  gallon  of 
which  a  tea-cup  of  sugar  has  been  added.  Place  a  saucer  or  pieces 
of  broken  china  on  the  pickles  to  keep  them  under  the  vinegar.  If 
;i  white  scum  rises,  drain  off  vinegar,  boil,  skim,  and  pour  hot  over 
the  pickles.  Prepare  mustard,  peppers,  and  horse-radish,  as  follows  f 
Take  three  green  or  ripe  garden  peppers  (four  table-spoons  when 
chopped),  cut  in  two,  place  in  salt  water  over  night,  the  next  morn- 
ing drain  and  chop  quite  fine ;  to  two  table-spoons  mustard-seed  add 
salt-spoon  salt,  pour  in  boiling  water,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes  and 
drain ;  two  table-spoons  horse-radish  chopped  fine.  Tomatoes  and 
onions  are  excellent  prepared  in  the  same  way.  For  sliced  pickles, 
take  cucumbers  and  onions,  or  tomatoes  and  onions,  and  slice  and 
prepare  as  above. — Mrs.  W.  W.  W. 

Manoobs. 
Select  green  or  half  grown  muskmelons;  remove  a  piece  the 
length  of  the  melon,  an  inch  and  a  half  wide  in  the  middle  and 
tapering  to  a  point  at  each  end ;  take  out  seeds  with  a  tea-spoon, 
secure  one  end  of  each  piece  to  its  own  melon  by  a  stitch  made  with 
a  needle  and  white  thread.  Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  cold  water 
strong  enough  to  float  an  eg^,  pour  it  over  them,  and  after  twenty- 
four  hours  take  them  out.  For  filling,  use  chopped  tomatoes  and 
chopped  cabbage  prepared  as  in  "Chopped  Pickles,"  small  cucum- 
bers, small  white  onions,  and  nasturtium  pods,  each  prepared  by 
remaining  in  salt  water  in  separate  jars  twenty-four  hours;  add  also 
reeii  beans  boiled  in  salt  water  until  tender.  For  spice,  use  cin- 
namon-bark, whole  cloves,  chopped  horse-radish,  cayenne  pepper, 
mustard  seed,  the  latter  prepared  as  directed  in  "  Chopped  Pickles.* 
Prepare  three  or  four  times  as  much  cabbage  and  tomatoes  as  of 
other  articles,  as  any  part  left  over  may  be  placed  in  jar  with  vin- 
^|;ar  poured  over,  and  is  ready  for  the  table.  Use  one,  or,  if  small, 
two  cucumbers,  two  or  three  onions,  and  the  same  quantity  of  bean 
and  nasturtium  pods,  placing  them  in  mango  first,  with  two  or  three 


PICKLES.  261 

doves,  three  or  foui:  sticks  of  cinuamou  an  inch  long,  and  half  a 
tea-spoon  horse-radish,  and  filling  up  afterward  with  the  chopped 
cabbage  or  tomatoes  (mixing,  or  using  them  separately  in  alternate 
melons)  pressing  down  very  firmly,  so  that  the  mango  is  filled  tight, 
sprinkling  on  the  cayenne  pepper  last.  Sew  in  the  piece  all  around 
in  its  proper  place  with  strong  white  thread;  when  all  are  thus 
prepared,  place  in  a  stone  crock,  cover  with  weak  cider-vinegar,  let 
remain  over  night;  in  the  morning  place  the  mangoes,  and  the 
vinegar  in  which  they  were  soaked,  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  boil  half 
an  hour,  place  in  a  jar,  cover  with  good  strong  cider  vinegar,  let 
stand  all  night ;  in  the  morning  drain  ofi*  vinegar  and  boil  it,  add- 
ing one  pint  of  sugar  to  each  gallon,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the 
mangoes ;  drain  off  and  boil  the  vinegar  three  or  four  times,  and 
they  are  done.  This  is  not  the  usual  way  of  preparing  mangoes, 
but  it  is  much  the  best.  To  pickle  nasturtiums,  soak  as  collected  in 
salt  and  water  for  twenty-four  hours,  drain,  and  put  into  cold  viii* 
egar ;  when  all  the  seed  is  thus  prepared,  drain,  and  cover  with 
fresh  boiling-hot  vinegar. 

Peach  Mangoes. 

Take  un pared,  fine,  large  peaches  (free-stones);  with  a  knife 
extract  the  stone  from  the  side,  place  in  jar,  pour  over  them  boiling 
water  salted  to  taste,  let  sttmd  twenty-four  hours ;  drop  into  fresh 
cold  water  and  allow  to  remain  ten  or  fifteen  minutes ;  wipe  very 
dry,  fill  each  cavity  with  grated  horse-radish  and  white  mustard- 
seed  (prepared  aS' directed  in  recipe  for  **  Chopped  Pickles),  a  small 
piece  of  ginger-root,  and  one  or  two  cloves;  sew  up,  and  place 
in  a  stone  jar  as  close  together  as  possible.  Make  a  syrup  in  pro- 
portion of  one  pint  sugar  to  three  pints  vinegar;  pour,  boiling  hot, 
over  them.     They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  week,  and  are  verv 

fine.  /-Jf^ 

French  Pickles.  V 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  six  large  onions  sliced;  mix 

these  and  throw  over  them  one  tea-cup  of  salt,  and  let  them  stai  I 

over  night ;  next  day  drain  thoroughly  and  boil  in  one  quart  vij^*  * 

gar  mixed  with  two  quarts  of  water,  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Then  take  four  quarts   vinegar,    two  pounds    brown  sugar,   half 

pound  white  mustard-seed,  two  table-spoons  ground  allspice,  and  the 


262  .  PICKLES. 

same  of  cinnamon,  doves,  ginger,  and  ground  mustard ;  tlirow  all  to- 
gether and  boU  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  Wm.  Mappirif  Mason  Co.,  Ky. 

Pickled  Onions. 
Select  small  silver-skinned  onions,  remove  with  a  knife  all  the 
outer-skins,  so  that  each  onion  will  be  perfectly  white  and  clean. 
Put  them  into  brine  that  will  float  an  egg  for  three  days,  drain, 
[)lace  in  jar,  first  a  layer  of  onions  three  inches  deep,  then  a  sprink- 
ling of  horse-radish,  cinnamon  bark,  cloves,  and  a  UiJUe  cayenne 
pepper;  repeat  until  jar  is  filled,  in  proportion  of  half  a  tea-epoon 
cayenne  pepper,  two  tea-spoons  each  chopped  horse-radish  and  cloves, 
and  four  table-spoons  cinnamon  bark,  to  a  gallon  of  pickles;  bring 
vinegar  to  boiling  point;  add  brown  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  a 
quart  to  a  gallon,  and  pour  hot  over  the  onions. — EsAelk  Woods 

Wilcox. 

Piccalilli. 

One  large  white  cabbage,  fif^y  small  cucumbers,  five  quarts  smal> 
string-beans,  eight  small  carrots,  one  dozen  sticks  celery,  five  red 
peppers,  three  green  peppers,  two  heads  cauliflower;  chop  fine, 
soak  over  night  in  salt  and  water,  wash  well,  drain  thoroughly,  and 
pour  over  them  hot  vinegar  spiced  with  mace,  cinnamon  and  all- 
spice; turn  ofl*  vinegar  and  scald  until  safe  to  leave  like  common 
pickles;  or  seal  in  can  while  hot. — Mrs.  W.  L. 

Pyfer  Pickles. 
Salt  pickles  down  dry  for  ten  days,  soak  in  fresh  water  one  day ; 
pour  off"  watei",  place  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  water  and  vin% 
egar,  and  ad(^l  a  tea-spoon  pulverized  alum  (to  each  gallon) ;  set 
over  night  on  a  stove  which  had  fire  in  during  the  day;  wash  and 
put  in  a  jar  with  cloves,  allspice,  pepper,  horse-radish  and  onions  or 
jxarlic  ;  boil  fresh  vinegar  and  pour  over  all ;  in  two  weeks  they  will 
*-M)e  ready  for  u?«e.  These  pickles  are  always  fresh  and  crisp,  and  are 
made  with  much  less  trouble  than  in  the  old-fashioned  way  by 
keeping  in  hrm^.— Mrs.  E.  M.  R. 

Pickled  Peppers. 
*I'ake  large  green  ones  (the  best  variety  is  the  sweet  pepper)^ 
make  a  small  incision  at  the  side,  take  out  all  the  seeds,  being  care* 
ful  not  to  mangle  the  peppers;  soak^in  brine  that  will  float  an  egg 


fli 


PICKLES,  263 

for  two  days,  changing  water  twice ;  stuff  with  chopped  cabbage,  or 

tomatoes  seasoned  with  spice  as  for  mangoes  (omitting  the  cayenne 

pepper),  or  a  mixture  of  nasturtiums,  chopped  onions,  red  cabbage, 

grapes,  and  cucumbers,  seasoned  with   mustard-seed  and  a  little 

mace.      Sew  up  incision,  place  in  jar,  and  cover  with  cold-spiced 

vinegar. 

Spanish  Pickles. 

One  dozen  cucumbers,  four  heads  of  cabbage,  one  peck  green 
tomatoes,  one  dozen  ouions,  three  ounces  white  mustard-seed,  one 
ounce  celery  seed,  one  ounce  turmeric,  one  box  Coleman's  mustard, 
two  and  a  half  pounds  brown  sugar.  Let  the  cucumbers  stand  in 
brine  that  will  float  an  eg'g  three  days ;  slice  the  onions,  and  chop 
cabbage  and  tomatoes,  the  day  before  making,  and  spruikle  with 
salt  in  the  proportion  of  half  pint  to  a  peck.  When  ready  to  make, 
squeeze  brine  out  of  cucumbers,  wipe  them  off,  peel  and  cut  them  in 
slices,  let  all  simmer  slowly  in  a  kettle  together  for  half  an  hour, 
and  then  bottle.— 

BiPE  Tomato  Pickles. 
Pare  ripe,  sound  tomatoes  (do  not  scald),  put  in  a  jar;  scald 
spices  (tied  in  a  bag)  in  vinegar,  and  pour  while  hot  over  them. 
This  recipe  is  best  for  persons  who  prefer  raw  tomatoes. 

Variety  Pickles. 
One  peck  each  of  green  tomatoes  and  cucumbers,  and  one  quart 
onions ;  pare,  slice  and  salt  (using  a  rounded  half  pint  for  all)  each 
in  separate  jars,  letting  them  stand  in  the  salt  twenty-four  hours, 
and  drain  well,  wringing  and  pressing  in  a  cloth ;  sprinkle  fresh 
green  radish-pods  and  nasturtium  seeds  with  salt,  and  let  stand  for 
the  same  length  of  time ;  boil  in  water  salted  to  taste  two  quarts  of 
half-grown,  very  tender  bean  pods,  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a 
silver  fork,  take  out  and  drain.  Now  place  each  in  a  separate  jar, 
cover  with  cold,  weak  vinegar  for  twenty-four  hours,  drain  well, 
pressing  hard  to  get  out  all  the  juice,  cook  tomatoes  as  in  "Chopped 
Pickles,"  and  then  mix  all  well  together.  In  a  stone  jar  place 
first  a  layer  of  the  mixture,  sprinkle  with  mustard  seed  (prepared 
as  directed  in  recipe  for  "Chopped  Pickles),"  horse-radish  chopped 
fine,  cinnamon  bark,  rings  of  garden  peppers,  and  a  few  cloves,  then 


264  PICKLES. 

another  layer  of  the  mixture,  then  the  spice  with  a  light  sprink* 
ling  of  cayenne  pepper.  The  spices  used  for  this  amount  are 
nine  table-spoons  stick  cinnamon,  four  and  a  half  tea-spoons  each 
of  mustard-seed,  cloves,  and  horse-radish,  and  twenty-seven  rings 
of  garden  peppers.  Cover  with  good  cider  vinegar,  let  stand 
over  night,  drain  off  vinegar,  and  boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  add* 
iHg  brown  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one  pint  to  a  gallon  of  vin- 
egar ;  skim  well,  pour  hot  over  the  pickles,  continue  to  drain  off 
and  boil  for  several  days.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add  more  sugar^ 
although  these  are  not  intended  for  sweet  pickles.  The  proportion 
of  cucumbers  may  be  double  or  even  three  times  the  quantity  of 
tomatoes  if  desired. — Mrs.  W,  W,  Wood^. 

Virginia  Mixed  Pickle. 
One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  twenty-five  medium-sized  cucum- 
bers, fifteen  large  white  onions,  one-half  peck  sraafl  onions,  four 
heads  cabbages,  one  pint  grated  horse-radish,  one-half  pound  white 
mustard-seed,  one-fourth  pound  ground  mustard,  one-half  tea-cup 
ground  black  pepper,  one-half  pint  salad  oil,  one  ounce  celery  seed, 
one-half  ounce  ground  cinnamon,  two  ounces  turmeric.  Slice  the 
tomatoes  and  large  onions,  cut  cabbage  as  for  slaw,  quarter  cucum- 
bers 'engthwise,  cut  in  pieces  two  inches  long,  leaving  the  peel  on, 
and  add  the  small  onions  whole.  Mix  with  salt  thoroughly,  let 
stand  twenty-four  hours;  drain  off  the  juice,  and  pour  vinegar  and 
water  over  pickles.  Let  stand  a  day  or  two,  strain  again  as  dry  as 
p<\ssible;  mix  the  spices  well  except  the  ground  mustard,  then  boil 
one  and  one-half  gallons  fresh  apple  vinegar  and  pour  boiling  hot 
over  the  pickles;  do  this  three  mornings  in  succession,  using  the 
same  vinegar  each  time.  The  third  time  add  one  pound  of  sugar  to 
the  vinegar  and  boil,  pouring  over  as  above ;  also  mix  the  oil  and 
ground  mustard  together  with  a  small  portion  of  the  vinegar,  and 
add  when  cold.     Oil  can  be  omitted  if  not  relished.  —Mn.  M.  B. 

Sperry,  NaakirUley  Tenn. 

Pickled  Walnuts. 

Grather  walnuts  (or  butternuts)  when  soft  enough  to  be  pierced 

by  a   needle  (July),  prick  each  with  a  large  needle  well  through, 

holding  in  a  cloth  to  avoid  staining  the  hands,  cover  with  strong 

salt  water  (a  pint  and  a  half  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water),  let  stand  two 


SWEET  PICKLES.  265 

or  three  days,  changing  the  brine  every  day ;  then  pour  over  them 
a  brine  made  by  dissolving  salt  in  boiling  water  (let  it  get  cold  be- 
fore using),  let  stand  three  days,  renew  the  brine  and  let  it  stand 
for  three  days  more.  Now  drain  and  expose  to  the  sun  for  two  or 
three  days  or  until  they  become  black,  or  put  in  cold  water  for  half 
a  day,  and  pack  in  jars  not  quite  full.  The  proportions  are  a  hun- 
dred walnuts  to  each  gallon  of  vinegar.  Boil  vinegar  eight  min- 
utes, with  a  tea-cup  sugar,  three  dozen  each  whole  cloves  and  allspice, 
'a  dozen  and  a  half  pepper-corns,  and  a  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Pour 
the  vinegar  over  the  walnuts  scalding  hot.  In  three  days  draw 
off  the  vinegar,  boil  and  pour  over  the  walnuts  again  iifhile  hot,  and 
at  end  of  three  days  repeat  the  process.  They  will  be  fit  to  eat  in 
a  month,  and  will  keep  for  years. — Mrs.  C.  T.  Carson. 


SWEET  PICKLES. 


Sweet  pickles  maybe  made  of  any  fruit  that  can  be  preserved^ 
including  the  rinds  of  ripe  melons  and  cucumbers.  The  proportion 
of  sugar  to  vinegar  for  syrup  is  three  pints  to  a  quart.  Sweet  pick- 
les may  be  made  of  any  preserve  by  boiling  over  the  syrup  and 
adding  spices  and  vinegar.  Examine  frequently,  and  re-scald  the 
syrup  if  there  are  signs  of  fermentation.  Fiums  and  other  smootb- 
skinned  fruits  should  be  well  pricked  before  cooking.  The  principal 
spices  for  sweet  pickles  are  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Use  *'  coffee  C,** 
best  brown,  or  good  stirred  maple  sugar. 


Sweet  Pickled  Beets, 
Boil  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle  till  they  can  be  pierced  with  a 
silver  fork ;  when  cool  cut  lengthwise  to  size  of  a  medium  cucum- 
ber; boil  equal  parts  vinegar  and  sugar  with  half  a  table-spoon 
ground  cloves  tied  in  a  cloth  to  each  gallon  ;  pour  boiling  hot  over 
the  beets. — Mh.  Samuel  Woods 

Pickled  Cucumbeks. 
Prepare  and  quarter  ripe  cucumbers,  take  out  seeds,  clean,  lay 
in  brine  that  will  float  an  egg  nine  days,  stirring  eveiy  day,  take 


266  SWEET  PICKLES, 

out  and  put  in  clear  water  one  day,  lay  in  alum-water  (a  lump  of 
alum  size  of  a  medium  hulled  hickory-nut  to  a  gallon  of  water) 
over  night,  make  syrup  of  a  pint  good  cider  vinegar,  pound  brown 
sugar^  two  table-spoons  each  broken  cinnamon  bark,  mace,  and 
pepper  grains;  make  sjrrup  (three  pints  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  vin- 
egar) enough  to  cover  the  slices,  lay  them  in,  and  cook  till  tender. 

— Mrs,  M,  L,  France. 

Currant  Pickles. 

Scald  seven  pounds  ^ipe  currants  in  three  pounds  sugar  and  one 

quart  vinegar,  remove  currants  to  jar,  boil  for  a  few  moments  and 

pour  over  the  fruit.     Some  add  three  pounds  of  raisins  and  spices. 

If  not  sweet  enough,  use  only  one  pint  vinegar. 

Pickled  Grapes. 
Fill  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar  and  bunches  of  nice 
grapes  just  ripe  and  freshly  gathered ;  fill    one-third  full  of  good 
cold  vinegar,  and  cover  tightly. — Mrs,  C.  T  Car&m. 

Spiced  Grapes. 
Five  pounds  grapes,  three  of  sugar,  two  tea-spoons  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  half  tea-spoon  cloves ;  pulp  grapes,  boil  skins  until  tender, 
cook  pulps  and  strain  through  a  sieve,  add  it  to  the  skins,  put  in 
sugar,  spices  and  vinegar  to  taste ;  boil  thoroughly  and  cool.— ;M» 
Mae  Stokes,  Milord  Center, 

Spiced  Gooseberries. 
Leave  the  stem  and  blossom  on  ripe  gooseberries,  wash  dean; 
make  a  syrup  of  three  pints  sugar  to  one  of  vinegar,  skim,  if  neces- 
sary, add  berries  and  boil  down  till  thick,  adding  more  sugar  if 
needed ;  when  almost  done,  spice  with  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  boil 
as  thick  as  apple  butter. 

Spiced  Nutmeg  Melon. 
Select  melons  not  quite  ripe,  open,  scrape  out  the  pulp,  peel,  and 
slice;  put  the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar,  and,  for  five  pounds  fruit,  take  a 
quart  vinegar,  and  two  and  a  half  pounds  sugar ;  scald  vinegar  and 
sugar  together,  and  pour  over  the  fruit ;  sci^  the  syrup  and  pour 
over  the  fruit  each  day  for  eight  successive  days.  On  the  ninth, 
add  one  ounce  stick-cinnamoni  one  of  whole  doves,  and  one  of  all- 


1 


SWEET  PICKLES,  267 

spice.  Scald  fruit,  vinegar  and  spices  together,  and  seal  up  in  jars. 
This  pickle  should  stand  two  or  three  months  before  using.  Blue 
plums  are  delicious  prepared  in  this  way. — Mrs,  Oen.  Nayes, 

Peach  Pickles. 
Pare  freeetone  peaches,  place  in  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  them 
boiling-hot  syrup  made  in  the  proportion  of  one  quart  best  cider 
vinegar  to  three  pints  sugar;  boil  and  skim,  and  pour  over  the 
fruit  boiling  hot,  repeating  each  day  until  the  fruit  is  the  same 
color  to  the  center,  and  the  syrup  like  thin  molasses.  A  few  days 
before  they  are  finished,  place  the  fruit,  after  draining,  in  the  jar  to 
the  depth  of  three  or  four  inches,  then  sprinkle  over  bits  of  cinna- 
mon b»rk  and  a  few  cloves,  add  another  layer  of  fruit,  then  spice, 
and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  full;  scald  the  syrup  each  morning  for 
three  jr  four  days  after  putting  in  the  spice,  and  pour  syrup  boiling 
hot  over  fruit,  and,  if  it  is  not  sufficiently  cooked,  scald  fruit  with 
the  syrup  the  last  time.  The  proportion  of  spices  to  a  gallon  of 
fruit  is,  two  tea-spoons  whole  cloves,  four  table-spoons  cinnamon. 
To  pickle  clingstones,  prepare  syrup  as  for  freestones ;  pare  fruit, 
put  in  the  syrup,  boil  until  they  can  be  pierced  through  with  a 
silver  fork ;  skim  out,  place  in  jar,  pour  the  boiling  sjrrup  over 
them,  and  proceed  and  finish  as  above.  As  clings  are  apt  to  be« 
come  hard  when  stewed  in  sweet  syrup,  it  may  often  be  necessary 
Id  add  a  pint  of  water  the  first  time  they  are  cooked,  watching 
carefully  until  they  are  tender,  or  to  use  only  part  of  the  sugar  at 
first,  adding  the  rest  in  a  day  or  two.  Use  the  large  White  Heath 
lilingstones  if  they  are  to  be  had.  All  that  is  necessary  to  keep 
iweet  pickles  is  to  have  syrup  enough  to  cover,  and  to  keep  the 
fruit  well  under.  Scald  with  boiling  syrup  until  fruit  is  of  same 
K)lor  throughout,  and  syrup  like  thin  molasses ;  watch  every  week, 
particularly  if  weather  is  warm,  and  if  scum  rises  and  syrup  assumes 
%  whitish  appearance,  boil,  skim,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  If  at 
any  time  syrup  is  lacking,  prepare  more  as  at  first. — Mn.  M.  J,  TFoods. 

Pear  Pickles. 
Prepare  syrup  as  for  peaches,  pare  and  cut  fruit  in  halves,  or 
quarters  if  very  large^i^nd  if  small  leave  whole,  put  syrup  in  porce- 
lain kettle,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  fruit,  cook  until  a  silver  fork 


268  SWEET  PICKLES. 

will  easily  pierce  them ;   skim  out  fruit  first  apd  place  in  jar,  and 

last  pour  over  syrup  boiling  hot;  spice  like  peach  pickles,  draining 

them  each  day,  boiling  and  skimming  the  syrup,  and  pouring  it 

boiling  hot  over   the  fruit  until  fully  done.     By  cooking  pears  so 

much  longer  at  first  they  do  not  need  to  be  boiled  so  frequently, 

but  they  must  be  watched  carefully  until  finished,  and  if  perfectly 

done,  will  keep  two  or  more  years.     Apple  pickles  may  be  made  in 

the  same  way,  taking  care  to  select  such  as  will  not  lose  shape  in 

boiling. 

EucHERED  Plumb. 

Nine  pounds  blue  plums,  six  pounds  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar, 

one  ounce  cinnamon;  boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  together,  pour 

over  plums,  draw  off  next  morning  and  boil,  pour  back  on  plums, 

repeat  the  boiling  five  mornings,  the  last  time  boiling  the  fruit 

about  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  Capt  W.  B.  Brown,  Washington  Cfty. 

PiO£LED  Raisins. 
Leave  two  pounds  raisins  on  stem,  add  one  pint  vinegar  and 
half  pound  sugar ;  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  half  an  hour. — Mrs, 
Ji.  \j,  Jd., 

Strawberry  Pickles. 

Place  strawberries  in  bottom  of  jar,  add  a  layer  of  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  then  berries,  and  so  on ;  pour  over  it  a  syrup  made  of  two 
coffee-cups  cider  vinegar,  and  three  pints  sugar,  boiled  about  five 
minutes ;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  pour  off  syrup,  boil,  pour 
over  berries,  and  let  stand  as  before,  then  boil  berries  and  syrup 
slowly  for  twenty-five  minutes ;  put  in  jars  and  cover.  The  above 
is  for  six  quarts  of  berries.  Rne  apples  can  be  made  in  same  way, 
allowing  six  and  a  half  pounds  of  fruit  to  above  proportions. — Mrs. 
T,\  W.  Jones,  Charleston,  8.  C, 

Oreen  Tomato  Pickle. 
Take  eight  pounds  of  green  tomatoes  and  chop  fine,  add  four 
pounds  brown  sugar  and  boil  down  three  hours,  add  a  quart  of 
vinegar,  a  teaspoon  each  of  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  boil 
about  fifteen  minutes ;  let  cool  and  put  into  jars  or  other  vessels. 
Try  this  recipe  once  and  you  will  try  it  again. — Mrs,  W.  A,  Orojffvt, 
New  York  OUy. 


SWEET  PIOKUESL  269 

"Ripfi  ToBiATO  Pickle. 

Pan?  And  ^eigh  i-ipe  tomatoes  and  put  into  jars  and  just  cover 
vith  vinegar;  after  standing  three  days  pour  off  the  vinegar  and 
add  five  pounds  coffee  sugar  to  every  seven  of  fruit ;  spice  to  taste 
and  pour  over  tomatoes  and  cook  slowly  all  day  on  the  back  of  the 
stove.  Use  cinnamon,  mace  and  a  little  dovea^  or  not  any,  as  pre- 
ferred. 

Watermeix)n  Pickle. 

Pare  off  very  carefully  the  green  part  of  the  rind  of  a  good,  ripe 
watermelon,  trim  off  the  red  core,  cut  in  pieces  one  or  two  inches 
in  length,  place  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  in  the  proportion  of  one 
gallon  rinds  to  two  heaping  tea-spoons  common  salt  and  water  to 
nearly  cover,  boil  until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  silver  fork, 
pour  into  a  colander  to  drain,  and  dry  by  taking  a  few  pieces  at  a 
time  in  the  hand,  and  pressing  gently  with  a  crash  towel.  Make 
fiyrup,  and  treat  rinds  exactly  as  directed  for  pickled  peaches.  Con- 
tinue adding  rinds,  as  melons  are  used  at  table,  preparing  them 
first  by  cooking  in  salt  water  as  above ;  when  as  many  are  prepared 
as  are  wanted,  and  they  are  nearly  pickled,  drain  and  finish  as 
directed  in  peach  pickles,  except  when  the  syrup  is  boiled  the  last 
time,  put  in  melons  and  boil  fifteen  minutes ;  set  jar  near  stove, 
skim  out  melons  and  put  in  jar  a  few  at  a  time,  heating  gradually 
so  as  not  to  break  it,  then  pour  in  syrup  boiling  hot.  A  rind  nearly 
an  inch  thick,  crisp  and  tender,  is  best,  although  any  may  be  used. 
If  scum  rises,  and  the  syrup  assumes  a  whitish  appearance,  drain, 
boil  and  skim  syrup,  add  melons,  and  boil  until  syrup  is  like  thin 
molasses. 

Clover  Vikeoar. 

Put  a  large  bowl  of  molasses  in  a  crock,  and  pour  over  it  nine 
bowk  of  boiling  rain-water ;  let  stand  until  milk- warm,  put  in  two 
quarts  of  clover  blossoms,  and  two  cups  of  baker^s  yeafit;  let  this 
stand  two  weeks,  and  strain  through  a  towel.  Nothing  will  mold 
bit. — Mn.  McAlistery  Ghshetiy. 

Mint  Vinegar. 
Put  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  enough  fresh,  clean  pepperminti 
spearmint,  or  garden  parsley  leaves  to  fill  it  loosely ;  fill  up  with 


- « 


270  S  WEET  PICKLES, 

good  vinegar,  stop  closely,  leave  on  for  two  or  three  weeks,  pour 
off  into  another  bottle,  and  keep  well  corked  for  use.  This  is  ex- 
cellent for  cold  meats,  soups  and  bread-dressings  for  roasts ;  when 
mints  can  not  be  obtained,  celery  seed  is  used  in  the  same  way. — 
lfr«f  J5.  A.  Fay. 

Spiced  Vinegar. 

Put  three  pounds  sugar  in  a  three  gallon  jar  with  a  small  mouth; 
mix  two  ounces  each  of  mace,  cloves,  pepper,  allspice,  turmeric, 
celery  seed,  white  ginger  in  small  bits,  and  ground  mustard ;  put  in 
six  small  bags  madi'  of  thin  but  strong  muslin,  lay  in  jar,  fill  with 
best  cider  vinegar,  and  use  it  in  making  pickles  and  sauces. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. 

Gather  the  tarragon  just  before  it  blossoms,  strip  it  from  the 
larger  stalks  and  put  it  into  small  stone  jars  or  wide-necked  bottle ; 
and  in  doing  this  twist  the  branches,  bruising  the  leaves.  Pour 
over  it  vinegar  enough  to  cover;  let  it  stand  two  months  or 
longer,  pour  off,  strain,  and  put  into  small  dry  bottles,  cork  weU 
and  use  as  sauce  for  meats. 

Cauliflower  Pickles. 

To  twelve  heads  of  cauliflower,  five  quarts  of  vinegar,  five  cups 
brown  sugar,  six  eggs,  one  bottle  French  mustard,  two  tablespoon- 
ftiU  ginger^  a  few  gs-rliCf  two  green  peppers*  one-half  teaspoonfiil 
cayenne,  butter  size  of  an  eigg^  one  ounce  pulverized  turmeric  Beat 
well  together  the  eggs,  sugar,  mustard,  ginger,  and  turmeric,  then 
boil  ui  vinegar,  with  garlic  and  peppers,  ten  minutes.  Boil  cauli- 
flower in  salt  water  until  tender,  then  place  carefully  in  jar,  pour 
over  the  boiling  hot  mixture. — Mn,  W.  W.  Eagtmatiy  Mmneapdu. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles. 

Take  twenty-four  large  cucumbers,  ripe  and  sound,  six  white 
unions,  four  large  red  peppers ;  pare  and  remove  the  seeds  from 
the  cucumbers,  chop  well,  not  too  fine ;  then  chop  fine  onions  and 
peppers,  mix  thoroughly  with  one  cup  salt,  one  ounce  white  mustard ; 
place  in  a  muslin  bag ;  drain  twenty-four  hours,  remove  to  glass 
jars,  cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  seal.  They  will  keep  a  long 
time  and  are  excellent. — Mrs,  A.  F,  Oonkey, 


*9 


POULTRY. 


Do  not  feed  poultry  for  twenty-four  hours  before  killing ;  catch 
them  without  frightening  or  bruising,  tie  the  feet  together,  hang  up ' 
on  a  horizontal  pole,  tie  the  wings  together  over  the  back  with  a 
strip  of  soil  cotton  cloth ;  let  them  hang  five  minutes,  then  cut  the 
throat  or  cut  off  the  head  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  allow  them 
to  hang  until  the  blood  has  ceased  to  drip.  The  thorough  bleeding 
renders  the  meat  more  white  and  wholesome.  Scald  well  by  dip- 
ping in  and  out  of  a  pail  or  tub  of  boiling  water,  being  careful 
not  to  scald  so  much  as  to  set  the  feathers  and  make  them  more 
difficult  to  pluck ;  place  the  fowl  on  a  board  with  head  towards  you, 
poll  the  feathers  away  from  you,  which  will  be  in  the  direction 
they  naturally  lie  (if  pulled  in  a  contrary  direction  the  skin  is 
likely  to  be  torn),  be  careful  to  remove  all  the  pin-feathers  with  a 
knife  or  pair  of  tweezers ;  singe,  but  not  smoke,  over  blazing  paper, 
place  on  a  meat-board,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  legs  a 
litde  below  the  knee,  to  prevent  the  muscles  from  shrinking  away 
from  the  joint,  and  remove  the  oil-bag  above  the  tail ;  take  out  the 
crop,  either  by  making  a  slit  at  the  back  of  the  neck  or  in  front  (the 
last  is  better),  taking  care  that  every  thing  pertaining  to  the  crop 
or  windpipe  is  removed,  cut  the  neck-bone  off  close  to  the  body, 
leaving  the  skin  a  good  length  if  to  be  stuffed ;  cut  around  the  vent, 
cat  a  slit  three  inches  long  from  the  tail  upwards,  being  careful  to 
cat  only  through  the  skin,  put  in  the  finger  at  the  breast  and  detach 
aD  the  intestines,  taking  care  not  to  burst  the  gall-bag  (situated 
near  the  upper  part  of  the  breast-bone,  and  attached  to  the  liver; 
if  broken,  no  washing  can  remove  the  bitter  taint  left  on  every 
spot  it  touches);  put  in  the  hand  at  the  incision  near  the  taO 

(?71) 


/ 


272  POULTRY. 

and  draw  out  careftilly  all  intestines ;  trim  off  the  &t  from  the 
•  breast  and  at  the  lower  incision ;  split  the  gizzard  and  take 
out  the  inside  and  inner  lining  (throw  liver,  heart,  and  gizzard 
into  water,  wash  well,  and  lay  aside  to  be  cooked  and  used 
for  the  gravy) ;  wash  the  fowl  thoroughly  in  cold  water  twice^ 
(some  wipe  carefully  with  a  wet  cloth,  and  afterwards  with  a  dry- 
doth  to  make  perfectly  clean,  instead  of  washing),  hangup  to  drain, 
and  it  is  ready  to  be  stuffetl,  skewered,  and  placed  to  roast.  To 
make  it  look  plump,  before  stuffiug,  flatten  the  breast-bone  by 
placing  several  thicknesses  of  cloth  over  it  and  pounding  it,  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  skin,  and  rub  the  inside  well  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Stuff  the  breast  first,  but  not  too  full  or  it  will  burst  in 
cooking ;  stuff  the  body  rather  fuller  than  the  breast,  sew  up  both 
openings  with  strong  thread,  and  sew  the  skin  of  the  neck  over 
upon  the  back  or  down  upon  the  breast  (these  threads  must  be  care- 
fully removed  before  sending  to  the  table).  Lay  the  points*  of  the 
wings  under  the  back,  and  fasten  in  that  position  with  a  skewer  run 
through  both  wings  and  held  in  place  with  a  twine ;  press  the  legs 
as  closely  towards  the  breast  and  side-bones  as  possible,  and  fasten 
with  a  skewer  run  through  the  body  and  both  thighs,  push  a  short 
skewer  through  above  the  tail,  and  tie  the  ends  of  legs  down  with  a 
twine  close  upon  the  skewer  (or,  if  skewers  are  not  used,  tie  well 
in  shape  with  twine);  rub  over  thoroughly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
men  lara,  m  Dne  loliowmg  manner:  Hold  the  breast  over  a  clear 
fire  for  a  minute  or  dip  it  in  boiling  water.  To  make  the  flesh  firm, 
cut  strips  of  firm  &t  bacon,  two  inches  long,  and  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  wide,  and  make  four  parallel  marks  on  the  breast,  put  one  of 
these  strips  of  bacon-fat  (called  lardoons)  securely  into  the  split  end 
of  small  larding-needle,  and  insert  it  at  the  first  mark,  bringing  it 
out  at  the  second,  leaving  an  equal  length  of  fat  protruding  at  each 
end ;  continue  inserting  these  strips,  at  intervals  of  half  an  inch 
down  these  two  lines,  and  then  do  the  same  with  the  two  others.  For 
poultry  use  a  small  larding-needle ;  the  large  ones  are  used  foi 
larding  beef  or  veal.  The  process  is  very  simple,  and  any  one  who 
likes  to  bring  out  dainty  dishes,  will  be  more  than  repaid  for  the 
little  trouble  in  learning  how.  All  white-fleshed  birds  are  improved 
by  larding  (as  well  as  veal  and  sweet-bread).     Small  birds,  such  as 


POULTRY,  273 

quails,  may  be  more  conveniently  ''barded"  by  placing  a  ''barde," 
a  slice  of  &t  bacon,  over  tbe  breast,  and  the  same  plan  may  be 
adopted  in  all  cases  where  larding  is  inconvenient ;  or  fat  from  the 
fewl  itself  may  be  used  instead  of  bacon.  When  the  flavor  of  bacon 
is  disliked,  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  bits  over  the  breast ;  never 
dredge  with  flour  in  the  beginning.  Now  place  to  roast  in  an 
oven  rather  hot  at  first,  and  then  graduate  the  heat  to  moderate 
until  done,  to  test  which  insert  a  fork  between  the  thigh  and  body; 
if  the  juice  is  watery  and  not  bloody  it  is  done.  If  not  served  at 
once,  the  fowl  may  be  kept  hot  without  drying  up,  by  placing  over 
a  skillet  full  of  boiling  water  (set  on  top  of  stove  or  range)  and 
inverting  a  dripping-pan  over  it.  Many  persons  roast  fowls  upon  a 
wire  rack  or  trivet  placed  inside  the  dripping-pan,  or  patty  pans 
or  muflin-rings  may  be  used  as  rests.  The  pan  should  be  three  or 
even  four  inches  deep,  and  measure  at  the  bottom  about  sixteen  by 
twenty  inches,  with  sides  somewhat  flaring.  Some  put  to  roast  in 
a  dry  pan,  the  larding  or  butter  making  sufficient  drippings  for 
basting;  others  add  a  very  little  water.  In  roasting  a  turkey, 
allow  twenty  minutes  time  for  every  pound,  and  twenty  minutes 
longer.  Some  steam  turkey  before  roasting,  and  a  turkey-steamer 
may  be  easily  improvised  by  placing  the  dripping-pan  containing 
the  turkey  on  top  of  two  or  three  pieces  of  wood  (hickory  or  maple 
is  the  best)  laid  in  the  bottom  of  a  wash-boiler,  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover  the  wood ;  put  on  the  lid,  which  should  fit  tightly 
on  the  boiler,  and  as  the  water  boils  away  add  more.  Add  the 
liquor  in  the  dripping-pan  to  the  turkey  when  placed  in  the  oven 
to  roast  (do  not  use  the  water  from  the  boiler).  In  boiling  fowl, 
put  into  hot  water  (unless  soup  is  wanted,  when  place  in  cold); 
skim  when  it  boils  up  first,  and  keep  it  just  above  the  boiling  point, 
but  it  must  boil  gently,  not  violently.  A  little  vinegar  added  to  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled  makes  fowls  more  tender.  For  fuller 
directions  see  *'  Meats."  Boil  the  giblets  until  tender  in  a  sepa- 
rate dish,  and  add  them,  well  chopped,  together  with  water  in 
which  they  were  cooked,  to  the  gravy. 

TO  CUT  UP  A  CHICKEN. 

Pick,  singe,  and  draw ;  lay  the  chicken  on  a  board  kept  for  the 

purpose,  cut  off*  the  feet  at  first  joint ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  neck,  take 
18 


274  POULTRY. 

out  the  windpipe  and  crop,  cut  off  the  wings  and  legs  at  the  joint 
which  unites  them  to  the  body,  separate  the  first  joint  of  the  1^ 
from  the  second,  cut  off  the  oil-bag,  make  a  slit  horizontally  under 
the  tail,  cut  the  end  of  the  entrails  hoae,  extend  the  slit  on  each 
side  of  the  joint  where  the  legs  were  cut  off;  then,  with  the  left 
hand,  hold  the  breast  of  the  chicken,  and,  with  the  right,  bend 
back  the  rump  until  the  joint  in  back  separates,  cut  it  clear  and  place 
in  water.  Take  out  the  entrails,  using  a  sharp  knife  to  separate  the 
eggs  (if  any),  and  all  other  particles  to  be  removed,  from  the  back, 
being  careful  in  removmg  the  heart  and  liver  not  to  break  the  gall- 
bag  (a  small  sack  of  a  blue-green  color  about  an  inch  long  attached 
to  the  liver);  separate  the  back  and  breast ;  commence  at  the  high 
point  of  the  breast  and  cut  downwards  tow^ard  the  head,  taking 
off  part  of  the  breast  with  the  wish-bone ;  cut  the  neck  from  that 
part  of  the  back  to  which  the  ribs  are  attached,  turn  the  skin  off 
the  neck,  and  take  out  all  lumps  and  stringy  substances ;  very  care- 
fully remove  the  gall-bag  from  the  liver,  and  clean  the  gizzard  by 
making  an  incision  through  the  thick  part  and  first  lining,  peeling 
off  the  fleshy  part,  leaving  the  inside  whole  and  ball-shaped ;  if  the 
lining  breaks,  open  the  gizzards,  pour  out  contents,  peel  off  inner 
lining,  and  wash  thoroughly.  After  washing  in  second  water,  the 
chicken  is  ready  to  be  cooked.  When  young  chickens  are  to  be 
baked,  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  open  the  back  at  the  side  of  the 
back-bone,  press  apart,  and  dean  as  above  directed,  and  place  in 
dripping-pan,  skin  side  up. 

Chickens  are  stuffed  and  roasted  in  the  same  way  as  turkeys, 
and  are  much  better  for  being  first  steamed,  especially  if  over  a  year 
old.  Boast  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  or  till  nicely  browned. 
Some  prefer  to  broil  or  fry  old  chickens  after  first  steaming  until 
tender,  but  stewing  or  boiling  is  better.  In  broiling  chickens  the 
danger  of  under-cooking  on  the  one  hand,  or  burning  on  the  other, 
is  avoided  by  breaking  the  bones  slightly  with  a  rolling-pin  so  that 
the  pieces  are  flattened.  Covering  with  a  sauce-pan  will  also  con- 
centrate the  heat,  and  help  cook  them  thoroughly  without  burning. 

Some,  in  making  chicken  or  meat  pies,  line  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  with  crust,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  well  **  set,**  then  line 
the  sides,  fill,  cover,  and  bake;  it  is  always  difficult  to  bake  the 


POULTRY.  275 

crust  on  the  bottom  of  dish  unless  this  plan  is  adopted.  A  still 
better  plan  is  to  use  no  bottom  crust,  only  lining  the  sides  of  the 
pan. 

The  gariyshes  for  turkey  and  chicken  are  parsley,  fried  oysters, 
thin  slices  of  ham,  slices  of  lemon,  fried  sausages  or  forced-meat 
balls.  

Baked  Chickens. 
Dress  the  chickens  and  cut  them  in  two,  soak  for  half  an  hour  in 
cold  water,  wipe  perfectly  diy  and  put  in  a  dripping-pan,  bone  side 
down,  without  any  water  ;  have  a  hot  oven,  and,  if  the  chickens  are 
young,  half  an  hour's  cooking  will  be  sufficient.  Take  out,  and  sea- 
son with  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  pack  one  above  another  as  closely 
as  possible,  and  place  in  pan  over,  boiling  water^  covering  them 
closely — ^this  keeps  them  moist  until  served — boil  the  giblets  in  a 
little  water,  and,  after  the  chickens  are  taken  from  the  dripping-pan, 
pat  into  it  the  water  in  which  giblets  were  boiled,  thicken  it,  and  add 
the  chopped  giblets.  This  manner  of  baking  chickens  is  fully  equal 
to  broiling  them. — Mr9.  E,  W.  Herrick 

Baked  Spring  Chickens. 
Cut  each  of  four  chickens  into  seven  or  nine  pieces,  wash  thor- 
oughly and  quickly,  and  put  in  a  colander  to  drain ;  put  a  half 
table-spoon  each  of  lard  and  butter  into  a  dripping-pan,  lay  in  the 
pieces,  and  add  half  a  pint  hot  water ;  place  in  oven  and  bake  half 
an  hour,  turn,  taking  care  that  they  get  only  to  a  light  brown,  and, 
just  before  taking  up,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  when  done 
take  out  in  a  dish  and  keep  hot.  To  make  the  gravy,  add  a  half 
pint  or  more  of  water,  set  the  dripping-pan  on  the  stove,  and  add 
one  table-spoon  flour  mixed  with  half  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  stirring 
dowly,  adding  a  little  of  'the  mixture  at  a  time.  Let  cook  thor- 
oughly, stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning,  and  to  make  the 
gravy  nice  and  smooth ;  season  more  if  necessar}'. — Mrs.  L,  Hvsh. 

Baked  Chicken  with  Parsnips. 
Wash,  scrape,  and  quarter  parsnips,  and  parboil  for  twenty  min- 
utes; prepare  a  young  chicken  by  splitting  open  at  back,  place 
in  a  dripping-pan,  skin  side  up,  lay  parsnips  i^Tound  the  chicken, 
q>riDkle  ¥riih  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 


276  POULTRY. 

of  an  egg,  or  two  or  three  slices  of  good  pickled  pork  ;  put  enough 

water  in  pan  to   prevent  burDing,  place  in  oven  and  bake  untU 

chicken  and  parsnips  are  done  to  a  delicate  brown ;  serve  chicken 

separately  on  a  platter,  pouring  the  gravy  in  the  pan  over  the  pars* 

nips. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 

Boil  two  fowls  weighing  five  pounds  each  till  very  tender,  mino« 
fine,  add  one  pint  cream,  half  pound  butter,  salt  and  pepper  tc 
taste ;  shape  oval  in  a  jelly  glass  or  mold.  Fry  in  lard  like  dough- 
nuts until  brown. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Fay^  New  York  (Xty. 

Bbeaded  Chicken. 
Gut  a  tender  chicken  into  seven  pieces  as  if  for  frying,  roll  in 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  in  finely  grated  bread  crumbs  seasoned 
with  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt ;  place  in  dripping-pan,  dot 
the  pieces  with  bits  of  butter  (one  table-spoon  in  all),  add  a  little 
water,  bake  slowly,  basting  often.  When  done,  take  out  chicken 
and  make  gravy  in  the  pan  by  adding  a  mixture  of  fiour  and  butter, 
make  smooth  by  stirring.  Add  either  cream  or  milk  to  make  suffi- 
cient gravy,  which  season  to  taste. 

Broiled  Chickens  or  Quails. 
Cut  chicken  open  on  the  back,  lay  on  the  meat-board  and  pound 
until  it  will  lie  flat,  lay  on  gridiron,  place  over  a  bed  of  coals,  broil 
until  a  nice  brown,  but  do  not  burn.  It  will  take  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes  to  cook  thoroughly,  and  it  will  cook  much  better  to  cover 
with  a  pie-tin  held  down  with  a  weight  so  that  all  parts  of  the 
chicken  may  lie  close  to  the  gridiron.  While  the  chicken  is  broil- 
ing, put  the  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  in  a  stew-pan  and  boil  in  a 
pint  of  water  until  tender,  chop  fine  and  add  flour,  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  stir  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  to  tRe  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled ;  when  the  chicken  is  done,  dip  it  in  this  gravy  while  hot, 
lay  it  back  on  the  gridiron  a  minute,  put  it  in  the  gravy  and  let 
boil  for  a  half  minute,  and  send  to  the  table  hot.  Cook  quails  in 
the  same  way. — Mrs.  ,A,  8.  Chapman. 

Chili  Colorad. 
Take  two  chickens;  cut  up  as  if  to  stew ;  when  pretty  well  done, 
add  a  little  green  parsley  and  a  few  onions.    Take  half  pound  large 


roLLTRY.  277 

pepptjr  pods,  remove  seeds,  and  pour  on  boiling  water;  steam  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes ;  pour  off  water,  and  rub  them  in  a  sieve  until 
all  the  juice  is  f>ut ;  add  the  juice  to  the  chicken ;  let  it  cook  for 
half  an  hour ;  add  a  little  butter,  flour  and  salt.  Place  a  border 
of  rice  around  the  dish  before  setting  on  table.  This  dish  may  also 
be  made  of  beef,  pork  or  mutton ;  it  is  to  be  eaten  in  cold  weather, 
and  is  a  favorite  dish'  with  all  people  on  the  Pacific  coast. — Mrs. 
Gov.  Bradley^  Nevada. 

Chickens  for  Lunch. 
Split  a  young  chicken  down  the  back,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  s*  ason 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  place  in  a  mod- 
erate oven ;  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  This  is  much  better 
for  traveling  lunch  than  when  seasoned  with  butter. — Jfrs.  W.  B. 
Broymy  Wcukingiony  D.  C. 

Chicken  Pot-pie. 
Cut  up  a  chicken  and  put  on  in  hot  water  enough  to  cover,  and 
take  care  that  it  does  not  cook  dry ;  while  boiling  cut  off  a  slice 
from  bread  dough,  add  a  small  lump  of  lard,  and  mix  up  like  light 
biscuit,  roll,  cut  out  with  cake-cutter  and  set  by  stove  to  rise ;  wash 
and  pare  potatoes  of  moderate  size,  and  add  them  when  chicken  is 
almost  done;  when  potatoes  begin  to  boil,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, add  dumplings  and  season  again.  See  that  there  is  water 
enough  to  keep  from  burning,  cover  very  tightly,  and  do  not  take 
cover  off  until  dumplings  are  done.  They  will  cook  in  half  an 
hour,  and  may  be  tested  by  lifting  one  edge  of  the  lid,  taking  out 
a  dumpling  and  breaking  it  open.  Or,  the  dumplings  may  be  placed 
in  steamer  over  cold  water,  taking  care  to  leave  some  of  the  holes 
in  steamer  open,  as  if  all  are  covered  by  the  dumplings,  the  steam 
will  not  be  admitted,  and  they  will  not  cook  well.  If  there  arc 
too  many  dumplings  to  lie  on  bottom  without  covering  all  holes, 
attach  them  to  the  side  and  upper  edge  of  steamer  by  wetting 
dough  and  pressing  it  to  the  edge.  When  done  remove  to  vegetable 
dish  and  pour  hot  gravy  over  them.  Dish  potatoes  by  themselves, 
and  chickens  and  dumplings  together.  Make- gravy  by  mixing  two 
level  table-spoons  flour  and  a  little  butter  together,  and  stir  into  the 
hroth  remaining  in  pot  slowly,  add  more  boiling  water  if  needed  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Or,  make  dumplings  with  one  pint 


278  POULTRY, 

gour  milky  two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  tea-spoon  soda  (mixed  in  part 

of  the  flour),  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred 

with  a  spoon ;  or  baking-powder  and  sweet  milk  may  be  used.     Drop 

in  by  spoonfuls,  cover  tightly,  and  boil  as  above.     A  pot-pie  may 

be  made  from  a  good  boiling  piece  of  beef;   if  too  much  grease 

arises  skim  off. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  up  two  young  chickens,  place  in  hot  water  enough  to  cover, 
(as  it  boils  away  add  more  so  as  to  have  enough  for  the  pie  and  for 
gravy  to  serve  with  it),  boil  until  tender;  line  the  sides  of  a  four  or 
six  quart  pan  with  a  rich  baking-powder  or  soda-biscuit  dough  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  put  in  part  of  the  chicken,  season  -with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter,  lay  in  a  few  thin  strips  or  squares  of  dough,  add  the  lest 
of  chicken  and  season  as  before;  some  add  five  or  six  fresh  eggs  or  a 
few  new  potatoes  in  their  season,  season  liquor  in  which  the  chickeii9 
were  boiled,  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  part  of  it  to  the  pie, 
cover  with  crust  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  with  a  hole  in  the 
center  the  size  of  a  tea-cup.  Keep  adding  the  chicken-liquor  as 
needed,  since  the  tault  of  most  chicken  pies  is  that  they  are  too  dry. 
There  can  scarcely  be  too  much  gravy.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate  oven. 

Veal  pias  are  similarly  made,  omitting  eggs,  and  using  two  or 
three  pounds  veal  to  a  quart  of  dough.  Add  to  liquor  loft  in  pot 
a  table-spoon  of  butter  mixed  with  flour  to  a  paste,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  for  gravy,  adding  water  if  needed. — L,  A,  C. 

CmcKfa?  Pie  with  Oysters. 
Boil  the  chicken — a  year  old  is  best— until  tender,  drain  ofl* 
liquor  from  a  quart  of  03'ster8,  boil,  skim,  line  the  sides  of  a  dish 
with  a  rich  crust,  put  in  a  layer  of  chicken,  then  a  layer  of  raw 
oysters,  and  repeat  until  dish  is  filled,  seasoning  each  layer  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  adding  the  oyster  liquor  and 
a  part  of  the  chicken  liquor  until  the  liquid  is  even  with  the  top 
layer ;  now  cover  loosely  with  a  crust  having  an  opening  in  the 
center  to  allow  steam  to  escape.  If  the  liquor  cooks  away,  add 
chicken  gravy  or  hot  water.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Make  gravy  hy  adding  to  chicken  liquor  left  in  pot  (one 
quart  or  more)   two  tablespoons  flour,  rubbed  smooth  with  two 


POULTRY,  279 

tablespoons  butter,  and  seasoned  highly  with  pepper;  let  cook  until 
there  is  no  raw  taste  of  flour  and  salt  to  taste  and  serve. 

Chicken  Pudding. 
Dress  and  cut  one  chicken  into  small  pieces,  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
2MUQ  or  kettle  with  a  little  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  let 
boil  until  it  begins  to  grow  tender,  then  take  out  and  put  into  i; 
three-quart  pudding  dish  ;  have  ready  one  quart  green  corn  giated 
or  cut  fine,  to  which  add  three  egg^i  l>eaten  light  and  one  pint  swei  > 
milk ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  .pour  this  mixture  over  the 
chicken,  dredge  thickly  witli  flour,  lay  on  bits  of  butter  and  bake 
until  done. — Mrs.  A.  Wikon,  Rye,  N.  Y. 

Dressing  for  Chicken  or  Beef. 
Boil  potatoes,  mash  as  if  for  the  table,  except  that  they  should  be 
less  moist,  stuff*  the  chicken  or  roast  with  this,  and  bake  as  ordi- 
narily ;  for  ducks  add  onions  chopped  fine ;  if  the  bread-dressing  is 
wanted  too,  it  may  be  laid  in  the  corner  of  the  pan. — Mn,  Carrie 

Bed. 

Fricasseed  Chicken. 

Gut  up  and  put  on  to  boil,  skin  side  down,  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  slices  of  an  onion  if  liked; 
stew  gently  until  tender,  remove  chicken,  add  a  half  pint  cream  or 
milk  to  gravy,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  rubbed  smoothly 
together  (adding  a  little  of  the  gravy  to  soften  and  help  mix  them)» 
let  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 
Or,  first  fiy  the  chicken  brown  in  a  little  hot  lard,  take  out  chicken, 
add  a  table-spoon  flour,  and  let  cook  a  minute,  stirring  constantly; 
add  a  pint  water  (or  stock  if  at  hand),  a  little  vinegar  or  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  when  it  has  boiled, 
remove  from  fire,  strain,  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  pour  over 
the  chicken  and  serve.  Or,  put  chicken  in  sauce-pan  with  barely 
enough  water  to  cover,  stew  gently  until  tender ;  have  a  frying-pan 
prepared  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  drain  chicken  and  fry  with 
pork  until  it  is  a  fine,  rich  brown ;  take  chicken  and  bits  of  pork 
bom  the  pan,  pour  in  the  broth,  thicken  with  brown  flour,  mixed 
smooth  with  a  little  water,  and  season  with  pepper ;  now  put  chicken 
and  pork  back  into  gravy,  let  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  serve 
?ery  hot. — Mrs.  J.  H.  S. 


280  POULTRY. 

Fried  Spring  Chicken. 

Put  skillet  on  the  stove  with  about  half  table-spoon  each  of  lard  and 
butter;  when  hot  lay  in  chicken,  sprinkle  over  Avith  flour,  salt  and 
pepper,  place  lid  on  skillet,  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire;  when 
a  light  brown,  turn  the  chicken  and  sprinkle  flour,  salt  and  pepper 
over  the  top  as  at  first,  if  necessary  add  more  lard  and  butter,  and 
cook  slowly  until  done ;  make  gravy  just  the  same  as  for  baked 
chicken.     As  a  general  rule  half  an  hour  is  long  enough  to  fry 
spring  chicken.     To  make  rich  and  nice  gravy  without  cream,  take 
the  yolk  of  an  egg^  beat  up  light,  strain  and  stir  slowly  into  the 
gravy  after  the  flour  and  milk  have  been  stirred  in  and  thoroughly 
oooked;  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  the  gravy  is  done,  and  should   be 
removed  from  the  stove.     All  gravies  need  to  be  stirred  well  and 
thoroughly  oooked  over  a  moderate  fire. — Mn.  L.  H. 

Fried  Gumbo. 

Cut  up  two  young  chickens,  and  fry  in  skillet^  when  brown  but 
not  scorched,  put  in  a  pot  with  one  quart  finely  chopped  okra,  four  . 
large  tomatoes,  and  two  onions  chop{)ed  fine;  cover  with  boiling 
water,  boil  very  slowly,  and  keep  the  kettle  tightly  closed;  add 
boiling  water  as  it  wastes,  and  simmer  slowly  three  hours ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together; 
serve  with  boiled  rice. — Mrs.  J.  H.  S. 

Jelued  Chicken. 

Cook  six  chickens  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  until  the  meat 
will  part  from  the  bone  easily  ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper; 
just  as  soon  as  cold  enough  to  handle,  remove  bones  and  skin ; 
place  meat  in  a  deep  pan  or  mold,  just  as  it  comes  from  the  bone, 
using  gizzard,  liver  and  heart,  until  the  mold  is  nearly  full  To 
the  water  left  in  the  kettle,  add  three-fourths  of  a  box  of  Cox's 
gelatine  (some  add  juice  of  lemon),  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water» 
and  boil  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  little  less  than  a  quart,  pour  over 
the  chicken  in  the  mold,  leave  to  cool,  cut  with  a  very  sharp  knifii 
and  serve.  The  slices  will  not  easily  break  up  if  directiona 
followed. — Jfm  Prof.  Bobeiis,  Cape  QirardeaUf  Mx 


POULTBT.  281 

PiCKL£D  Chicken. 

dl  four  chickens  till  tender  enough  for  meat  to  fill  from  bones; 
pat  meat  in  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  it  three  pints  of  cold  vine- 
gar,  and  a  pint  and  half  of  the  water  in  which  the  chickens  were 
boiled;  add  spices  if  preferred,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  two 
days. — Emma  Chuli  Rea, 

Pressed  Chickek. 
Take  one  or  two  chickens,  boil  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  with 
a  little  salt,  and  when  thoroughly  done,  take  all  the  meat  from  the 
bones,  removing  the  skin,  and  keeping  the  light  meat  separate  irom 
the  dark ;  chop  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  If  a  meat 
preaser  is  at  hand  take  it,  or  any  other  mold  such  as  a  crock  or 
pan  will  do ;  put  in  a  layer  of  light  and  a  layer  of  dark  meat  till 
all  is  used,  add  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  which  should  be  about 
one  tea-cupful,  and  put  on  a  heavy  weight ;  when  cold  cut  in  slices. 
Many  chop  all  the  meat  together,  add  one  pounded  cracker  to  the 
liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  mix  all  thoroughly  before  putting  in  the 
mold ;  either  way  is  nice.  Boned  turkey  can  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way,  sUcing  instead  of  chopping.' 

Steamed  Chicken. 
Bub  the  chicken  on  the  inside  with  pepper  and  half  tea-spoon  of 
Bcdt,  place  in  steamer  in  a  kettle  that  will  keep  it  as  near  the  water 
as  possible,  cover,  and  steam  an  hour  and  a  half;  when  done  keep 
hot  while  dressing  is  prepared,  then  cut  them  up,  arrange  on  the 
platter,  and  serve  with  the  dressing  over  them.  The  dressmg  is 
made  as  follows :  Boil  one  pint  of  gravy  from  the  kettle  without  the 
&t,  add  cayenne  pepper  and  half  a  tea-spoon  salt;  stir  six  table- 
spoons of  flour  into  a  quarter  pint  of  cream  until  smooth,  and  add 
to  the  gravy.  Com  starch  may  be  used  instead  of  the  flour,  and 
some  add  nutm^  or  celery  salt. 

Boned  Turkey. 

With  a  sharp  knife  slit  the  skin  down  the  back,  and  raising  one 
ride  at  a  time  with  the  fingers,  separate  the  flesh  from  the  bones 
with  knife,  until  the  wings  and  legs  are  reached.  These  unjoint 
from  the  body,  and  cutting  through  to  the  bone,  turn  back  the 
flesh  and  remove  the  bones.    When  bones  are  removed,  the  fleah 


282  POULTRY. 

may  be  re-ehaped  by  stuffing.  Some  leave  tbc  bones  in  the  legs  and 
wings,  as  they  are  most  difficult  to  remove.  Stuff  with  force-meat, 
made  of  cold  lamb  or  veal  and  a  little  pork,  chopped  iine  and  sea- 
soned with  salt,  pepper,  sage  or  savory,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ; 
sew  into  shape,  turn  end?  of  wings  under  and  press  the  legs  close  to 
the  back,  and  tie  all  firmly  so  that  the  upper  surface  may  be  plump 
and  smooth  for  the  carver.  Lard  with  two  or  three  rows  on  the 
top,  and  bake  until  thoroughly  done,  basting  oflen  with  salt  and 
water,  and  a  little  butter.  This  is  a  difficult  dish  to  attempt. 
Carve  across*in  slices  and  serve  with  tomato-sauce. — Mr%,  X  Flem" 

mingy  PhUaddphiaf  Pa. 

Boned  Turkey. 

Bone  and  stuff  as  in  preceding  recipe,  roll  tight  in  a  strong,  clean 
doth,  tie  with  tape  in  center  and  near  the  ends,  and  &sten  ends 
firmly  with  strong  twine,  taking  care  to  make  the  roll  compact  and 
perfectly  secure;  place  in  a  rich  stock,  prepared  by  putting  the 
bones  in  cold  water  with  herbs,  an  onion  peeled  and  stuck  with  ten 
cloves,  and  a  sliced  carrot  and  turnip,  bringing  to  a  boil,  and  skim- 
ming it  until  clear  (if  not  enough  to  cover,  add  more  boiling  water), 
and  boil  four  or  five  hours,  take  up,  remove  cloth,  wash  it  in  cold 
water,  and  replace  turkey  in  it  as  before,  place  it  between  two 
platters  under  a  heavy  weight,  and  let  stand  over  night  to  cool; 
strain  the  stock  in  which  it  was  boiled,  in  the  morning  remove  all 
fat,  and  put  stock  over  the  fire ;  add  to  it  two  ounces  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  clarify  as  in  general  directions  for 
"Soups."  Stmiii  through  flannel  until  perfectly  clear,  pour  it  into 
two  shallow  molds,  color  one  dark  brown  with  caramel,  and  cool 
until  the  jelly  is  firm ;  place  turkey  on  a  dish  and  garnish  with  the 
jelly  cut  in  fanciful  shapes ;  or  first  place  the  turkey  on  a  dish,  and 

pour  the  jelly  over  it. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Wash  the  turkey  thoroughly  and  rub  salt  through  it :  fill  it  with 

a  dressing  of  bread  and  butter,  moistened  with  milk  and  seasoned 

with  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  and  mixed  with  a  pint  of  raw  oysters ; 

tie  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body,  place  in  salted  boiling 

water  with  the  breast  downward,  skim  often,  boil  about  two  houTS, 

but  not  till  the  skin  breaks ;  serve  with  oyster-sauce. — Mrs.  E,  L, 

F.,  New  York  Oity. 


POULTRY.  283 

Roast  Turkey. 

After  picking  and  singeing  the  turkey,  plump  it  by  plunging 
qoickly  three  times  into  boiling  water  and  then  three  times  into 
coldy  holding  it  by  the  legs ;  place  to  drain  and  dress  as  in  general 
directions;    prepare  stuffing  by  taking  pieces  of  dry  bread   and 
crust  (not  too  brown)  cut  off  a  loaf  of  bread  fully  three  or  four 
days  old  (but  not   moldy);  place  crust  and  pieces  in  a  pan  and 
pour  on  a  very  little  boiling  water,  cover  tightly  with  a  cloth,  let 
stand  until  soft,  add  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  one  or 
two  fresh  eggs,  and  the  bread  from  which  the  crust  was  cut,  so  as 
not  to  have  it  too  moist.     Mix  well  with  the  hands  and  season  to 
suit  taste ;  rub  inside  of  turkey  with   pepper  and  salt,  stuff  it  as 
already  directed  on  page  272,  and  sew  up  each  slit  with  a  strong 
thread ;  tie  the  legs  down  firmly,  and  press  the  wings  closely  to  the 
«de8,  securing  them  with  a  cord  tied  around  the  body  (or  use 
skewers  if  at  hand),  steam  (page  273)  from  one  to  three  hours  (or 
ontil  easOy  pierced  with  a  fork),  according  to  the  size,  then  place 
turkey  in  pan  with  water  from  dripping-pan  in  which  the  turkey 
was  steamed ;  lard  the  turkey,  or  place  on  the  breast  the  pieces  of 
&t  taken  from  it  before  it  was  stuffed,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, dredge  well  with  fiour;  if  not  sufficient  water  in  the  pan,  keep 
adding   boUing  water  and  baste  often,   as  the  excellence  of  the 
turkey  depends  much  on  this.     Cook  until  a  nice  brown  and  per- 
fectly tender ;  remove  to  a  hot  platter  and  serve  with  cranberry 
sauce  and  giblet  gravy.     To  make  the  gravy,  after  the  turkey  is 
dished  place  the  dripping-pan  on  the  top  of  range  or  stove,  skim 
off  most  of  the  fat,  and  add  water  if  necessary ;  chop  the  heart, 
gizzard  and  liver  (previously  boiled  for  two  hours  in  two  quarts  of 
water),  and  add  to  the  gravy  with  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  smooth  thickening  of 
flour  and  water,  stir  constantly  until  thoroughly  mixed  with  the 
gravy,  and  boil  until  the  flour  is  well  cooked.     Some,  in  making 
stuffing,  try  out  the  fat  of  the  turkey  at  a  low  temperature,  and  use 
instead  of  butter;  others  use  the  fat  of  sweet-pickled  pork  chopped 
fine  (not  tried  out),  and  a  small  quantity  of  butter,  or  none  at  alL 
-lfr8.  Judge  J.  L.  Porter. 


284  POULTRY. 

ROABT  TUKKEY. 

Prepare  and  stuff  as  in  preceding  recipe,  and  lard  as  described 
in  general  directions;  place  in  oven  not  quite  as  hot  as  for  roast- 
ing meats  (if  the  fire  is  very  hot,  lay  a  piece  of  brown  paper,  well 
greased,  over  the  fowl,  to  prevent  scorching)  ;  put  a  table-spoon  of 
butter  in  bits  on  the  breast ;  it  will  melt  and  run  into  the  dripping- 
pan,  and  is  used  to  baste  the  fowl  as  roasting  progresses;    ba«te 
often  (oiice  in  ten  minutes),  watching  the  turkey  as  it  begins  to 
brown,  very  carefully,  and  turning  it  occasionally  to  expose  all  parts 
alike  to  the  heat ;  it  should  be  moist  and  tender,  not  in  the  least 
scorched,  blistered  or  shriveled,  till  it  is  a  golden  brown  all  over. 
For  the  first  two-thirds  of  the  time  required  for  cooking  (the  rule 
is  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  and  twenty  minutes  longer)  the 
basting  should  keep  the  surface  moistened  so  that  it  will  not  crisp 
at  all ;  meantime  the  oven  should  be  kept  as  close  as  possible.     In 
basting  use  the  door  that  opens  to  the  lefl,  so  that  the  right  hand 
may  be  used  conveniently  through  a  small  opening;   and   a    long 
gauntlet  glove  is  a  good  thing  to  protect  the  hand  and  arm  during 
the  operation.     In  turning  the  pan,  do  it  as  quickly  as  possible ; 
season  with  two  tea-spoons  salt  when  half  done.     In  the  last  third 
of  the  time  allowed  for  cooking,  withdraw  the  pan  partly  from  the 
oven  (resting  the  end  on  a  block  of  wood  or  a  plain  stool  of  the 
proper  height  kept  for  the  purpose),  and  dredge  the  breast,  upper 
portion  and  sides  thoroughly,  by  sifting  flour  over  the  fowl  from  a 
fine  sifter,  return  pan  to  oven,  and  let  remain  until  the  flour  is  well 
browned,  then  baste  freely  with  drippings  from  the  pan,  and  flour 
again,  repeating  the  flouring  and  browning,  and  allowing  the  crust 
to  grow  crisixjr  each  time ;  there  will  probably  be  time  to  repeat 
the  process  three  or  four  times  before  finishing.     Take  care  not  to 
wash  off  the  flour  by  basting ;  give  it  time  to  brown  on  thoroughly, 
and  do  not  take  out  of  oven  until  all  the  flour  of  last  dredging 
is  thoroughly  browned.     If  it  is  necessary  to  turn  the  turkey  in  the 
pan,  use  a  towel,  and  never  stick  it  with  a  fork,  to  allow  the  juice 
to  escape.     In  roasting  a  large  turkey,  a  liberal  allowance  of  but- 
ter  for   cooking,   including  gravy  for   serving  in  two   successive 
days,  is  one  tea-cupful,  but  lass  may  be  used,    according  to  taste 
or  necessity  for  economy.     When  done  the  entire  surface  will  be  a 


POULTRY.  285 

rich,  filthy,  brown  crust,  which  breaks  off  in  Bhelb  in  carving, 
and  makes  the  most  savory  of  morsels.     Dish  the  turkey. 

To  make  the  gravy,  boil  the  heart,  liver,  gizzard  and  neck  in  two 
quarts  of  water  for  two  hours,  then  take  them  up,  chop  gizzard, 
heart  and  liver,  put  them  back  again,  thicken  with  one  table-spoon 
of  flour  wet  with  cold  water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  after  the 
turkey  has  been  taken  up,  pour  into  dripping-pan,  set  on  the  top  of 
the  stove,  and  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  scraping  the 
rides  of  the  pan  until  free  from  the  rich,  savory  particles  that  ad- 
here.    Serve  in  a  gravy-boat. 

RoABT  Turkey  with  Oyster  Dressing. 

Dress  and  rub  turkey  thoroughly  inside  and  out  with  salt  and 
pepper,  steam  two  hours  or  until  it  begins  to  grow  tender,  lifting 
the  cover  occasionally  and  sprinkling  lightly  with  salt.  Then  take 
out,  loosen  the  legs,  and  rub  the  inside  again  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  stuff  with  a  dressing  prepared  as  follows :  Take  a  loaf  of  stale 
bread,  cut  off  crust  and  soflen  by  placing  in  a  pan,  pouring  on 
boiling  water,  draining  off  immediately  and  covering  closely; 
crumble  the  bread  fine,  add  half  a  pound  melted  butter,  or  more 
if  to  be  very  rich,  and  a  tea-spoon  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  or 
enough  to  season  rather  highly;  drain  off  liquor  from  a  quart 
of  oysters,  bring  to  a  boil,  skim  and  pour  over  the  bread -crumbs, 
adding  the  soaked  crusts  and  one  or  two  eggs ;  mix  all  thoroughly 
with  the  hands,  and  if  rather  dry,  moisten  with  a  little  sweet  milk; 
lastly,  add  the  oysters,  being  careful  not  to  break  them ;  or  first  put 
in  a  spoonful  of  stufiing,  and  then  three  or  four  oysters,  and  so  on 
until  the  turkey  is  filled ;  stuff  the  breast  first.  Flour  a  cloth  and 
place  over  the  openings,  tying  it  down  with  a  twine ;  spread  the 
turkey  over  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  dripping-pan 
in  a  well-heated  oven,  add  half  a  pint  hot  water,  and  roast  two 
hours,  basting  often  with  a  little  water,  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
kept  in  a  tin  fi)r  this  purpose  and  placed  on  the  back  of  the 
stove.  A  swab  made  of  a  stick  with  a  cloth  tied  on  the  end,  is 
better  than  a  spoon  to  baste  with.  Turn  until  nicely  browned  on 
all  sides,  and  about  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  baste  with  butter 
and  dredge  with  a  little  flour—this  will  give  it  a  frothy  appearance. 


286  POULTRY. 

When  you  dish  the  turkey  if  there  is  much  fat  in  the  pan,  pour  off 
most  of  it,  and  add  the  chopped  giblets  previously  cooked  until 
tender,  and  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked,  now  stewed  down 
to  about  one  pint ;  place  one  or  two  heaping  table-spoons  flour  (it  is 
better  to  have  half  of  it  browned)  in  a  pint  bowl,  mix  smooth  with 
a  little  cream,  flU  up  bowl  with  cream  or  rich  milk  and  add  to  the 
gravy  in  the  pan;  boil  several  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  and 
pour  into  the  gravy  tureen ;  serve  with  currant  or  apple  jelly.  A 
turkey  steamed  in  this  way  does  not  look  so  well  on  the  table,  but 
is  very  tender  ^nd  palatable.  It  is  an  .excellent  way  to  cook  a 
large  turkey. 

English  Boast  Turkey. 

Kill  several  days  before  cooking,  prepare  in  the  usual  manner, 
stufl*  with  bread-crumbs  (not  using  the  crusts)  rubbed  fine,  moistened 
with  butter  and  two  eggs,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  sage, 
thyme  or  sweet  marjoram ;  sew  up,  skewer,  and  place  to  roast  in  a 
rack  within  a  dripping-pan ;  spread  with  bits  of  butter,  turn 
and  baste  frequently  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  water;  a  few 
minutes  before  it  is  done  glaze  with  the  white  of  an  egg ;  dish 
the  turkey,  pour  off  most  of  the  fat,  add  the  chopped  giblets  and 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter 
rubbed  together,  stir  in  the  dripping-pan,  let  boil  thoroughly  and 
serve  in  a  gravy-boat.  Grarnish  with  fried  oysters,  and  serve  with 
celery-sauce  and  stewed  gooseberries.  Choose  a  turkey  weighing 
from  eight  to  ten  pounds.  If  it  becomes  too  brown,  cover  with 
buttered  paper. — Mrs,  C,  T,  Carson, 

Meat  Jellt  for  Boned  Turkey. 

Take  oil  from  the  water  (when  cold)  in  which  turkey  was  boiled, 
strain  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  two  ounces  gelatine,  three  eggs, 
with  shells,  a  wine-glass  sherry  or  madeira;  stir  well.  Add  one 
quart  strained  liquor,  beat  rapidly  with  an  egg-beater,  put  on  fire, 
and  stir  till  boils ;  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  sprinkle  with  a 
pinch  of  turmeric,  and  strain  as  other  jelly;  when  cold,  break  up 
and  place  over  and  around  turkey.  Cut  in  thick  slices  and  fancifrd 
shapes  with  paste-cutter. — Mrs,  8.  T.  A^^Va. 


SALADS. 


Vegetables  used  for  salads  are:  boiled  asparagus,  cabbage,  red 
and  white;  lettuce,  chicory,  boiled  cauliflower,  celery,  dandelion, 
purslane,  water-cress,  etc.  Prepare  carefully  by  freshening  in  cool 
water,  cleaning  thoroughly  of  all  foreign  matters,  drying  carefully 
in  a  towel  (avoiding  as  much  as  possible  crushing  the  leaves,  as  it 
causes  them  to  wilt),  and  then  shredding  with  the  fingers  instead  of 
cutting  or  chopping  with  a  knife.  Lettuce  is  oflen  served  with  the 
leaves  entire,  reserving  the  tender  inner  leaves  of  lettuce  for  garnish- 
mg;  cover  with  a  "dressing,"  which  consists  chiefly  of  oil,  vinegar, 
salt,  pepper,  and  mustard,  mixed  in  various  proportions.  All  the 
ingredients  of  the  dressing  should  be  the  very  best. 

In  preparing  the  dressing,  powder  the  hard  boiled  eggs,  either  in 
a  mortar  or  by  mashing  with  the  Imck  of  a  silver  spoon  (if  raw 
eg^  are  used  I)eat  well  and  strain),  add  the  seasoning,  then  the  oil, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  and,  lastly  and  gradually,  the  vinegar.  Al- 
ways use  the  freshest  olive  salad  oil,  not  the  common  sweet  oil;  if  it 
can  not  be  obtained,  cream  or  melted  butter  is  a  good  substitute  and 
by  some  considered  even  more  palatable,  but  when  used  it  should  be 
added  last  of  all.  In  making  chicken  salad  use  the  oil  off  the 
water  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled.  It  is  much  nicer  to  pick 
the  meat  or  cut  it  with  a  knife  instead  of  chopping,  always  removing 
hits  of  gristle,  fat  and  skin.  The  same  is  true  of  celery  (in  place 
of  which  celery  seed  may  be  used  with  white  cabbage  or  nice  head- 
lettuce,  well  chopped).  To  crisp  celery,  lettuce,  cabbage,  and  all 
vegetables  used  for  salads,  put  in  ice-water  for  two  hours  before  serv- 

(2»7) 


288  SALADS. 

ing.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  chicken  and  celery,  mixed  and 
slightly  salted ;  toss  up  lightly  with  a  silver  fork,  turn  on  a  platter, 
form  into  an  oval  mound,  garnish  the  top  with  slices  of  cold  boiled 
eggs,  and  around  the  bottom  with  sprigs  of  celery,  and  set  away  in 
a  cold  place  until  needed.  Salads  should  be  served  the  day  they  are 
prep«ared.  Vegetable  salads  should  be  stirred  as  little  as  possible, 
in  order  that  their  freshness  may  be  preserved  until  they  are  served. 
To  fringe  celery  stalks  for  use  as  a  garnish  for  salads,  meats,  chicken, 
etc.,  cut  the  stalks  into  two-inch  pieces ;  stick  several  coarse  needles 
into  the  top  of  a  cork ;  draw  half  of  the  stalk  of  each  piece  of  celery 
through  the  needles  several  times.  When  all  the  fibrous  parts  are 
separated,  lay  the  celery  in  some  cold  place  to  curl  and  crisp.  Stir 
salads  with  a  wooden  fork  or  spoon.  Many  think  turkey  makes  a 
nicer  salad  than  chicken.  Always  make  soup  of  the  liquor  in  whioh 
turkey  or  chicken  was  boiled. 


Sidney  Smith's  Winter  Salad. 

Two  large  potatoes,  passed  through  kitchen  sieve. 

Unwonted  softness  to  the  salad  give ; 

Of  mordant  mustard  add  a  single  spoon — 

Distrust  the  condiment  which  bites  too  soon ; 

But  deem  it  not,  though  made  of  herbs,  a'  fault 

To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt; 

Three  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 

And  once  witli  vinegar  procured  from  town. 

True  flavor  needs  it,  and  your  poet  begs 

The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 

Let  onion  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 

And,  half-suspected,  animate  the  whole  ; 

And  lastly,  on  the  favored  compound  toss 

A  magic  tea-spoon  of  anchovy  sauce. 

Tlien,  though  green  turtle  fail,  though  venison 's  tough. 

Though  ham  and  turkey  are  not  boiled  enough, 

Serenely  full,  the  epicure  shall  say, 

"  Fate  can  not  harm  me — I  have  dined  to  day." 

Asparagus  Salad. 

After  having  scraped  and  washed  asparagus,  boil  soft  in  salt 
water,  drain  off  water,  add  pepper,  salt  and  strong  cider  vinegar, 
and  then  cool.  Before  serving,  arrange  asparagus  so  that  heads 
will  all  lie  in  center'  of  dish ;  mix  the  vinegar  in  which  it  was  put 


SALADS.  289 

after  removing  from  the  fire  with  good  olive  oil  or  melted  batter,  and 
pour  over  the  asparagus. — Mn.  L&ims  Brawn. 

Bean  Sajlad. 
String  young  beans,  break  into  half-inch  pieces  (or  leave  whole), 
wash  and  cook  soft  in  salt  water ;  drain  well,  add  finely-chopped 
onions,  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar;  when  cool  add  olive-oil  or  melted 
batter.     The  onions  may  be  omitted. 

Cabbage  Salad. 
Two  quarts  finely-chopped  cabbage,  two  level  table-spoons  salt, 
two  of  white  sugar,  one  of  black  pepper,  and  a  heaping  one  of 
ground  mustard ;  rub  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  until  smooth, 
add  half  cup  butter,  slightly  warmed ;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  cab* 
bage,  iEmd  add  tea-cup  good  vinegar;  serve  with  whites  of  the  eggs 
sliced  and  placed  on  the  salad. — Mrs,  Col.  Hawkins, 

Cabbage  Salad. 
Put  the  milk  and  vinegar  on  to  heat  in  separate  sauce-pans;  when 
the  vinegar  boils,  add  butter,  sugar,  salt  foxd  pepper,  and  stir  in  the 
chopped  cabbage ;  cover,  and  let  scald  and  steam — ^not  boil — ^for  a 
moment,  meanwhile,  remove  hot  milk  from  stove,  cool  a  little,  and 
stir  in  the  well-beaten  and  strained  yolks ;  return  to  stove,  and  boil 
a  moment.  Dish  cabbage  and  pour  custard  over  it,  stir  rapidly  with 
a  silver  spoon  until  well  mixed,  and  set  immediately  in  a  cold  place. 

Creah  Slaw. 
Odc  gallon  cabbage  cut  very  fine,  pint  vinegar,  pint  sour  cream, 
half  cup  sugar,  tea-8poon  flour,  two  eggs,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the 
fflze  of  a  walnut;  put  vinegar,  sugar  and  butter  in  a  sauce-pan  anci 
let  boil;  stir  eggs,  cream  and  flour,  previously  well  mixed,  into  the 
vinegar,  boil  thoroughly  and  throw  over  the  cabbage  previously 
sprinkled  with  one  table-spoon  salt,  one  of  black  pepper  and  one  of 
mustard. — Mn,  Dr.  Skiniiery  Somerset, 

Plain  Cold  Slaw. 

Slice  cabbage  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 

rogar;  pour  ever  vinegar  and  mix  thoroughly.     It  is  nice  served  in 

the  center  of  a  platter  with  fried  oysters  around  it. 
19 


290  SALADS. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Chop  fine  one  chicken  cooked  tender,  one  head  cabbage,  and  five 

cold  hard-boiled  eggs;   season  with  salt,  pepper   and  mustard  to 

tajste ;  warm  one  pint  vinegar,  add  half  a  tea-cup  butter,  stir  until 

melted,  pour  hot  over  the  mixture,  stir  thoroughly,  and  set  away  to 

cool. 

Chicken  Balad. 

Boil  three  chickens  until  tender,  salting  to  taste ;  when  cold  cut 
iQ  small  pieces  and  add  twice  the  quantity  of  celery  cut  up  with  a 
knife  but  not  chopped,  and  four  cold-boiled  eggs  sliced  and  thor- 
oughly mizQ^  through  the  other  ingredients.  For  dressing,  put  on 
fitove  a  sauce-pan  with  one  pint  vinegar  and  butter  size  of  an  egg; 
beat  two  or  three  eggs  with  two  table-spoons  mustard,  one  of  black 
pepper,  two  of  sugar,  and  a  tea-spoon  salt,  and  when  thoroughly 
beaten  together  pour  slowly  into  the  vinegar  until  it  thickens.  Be 
careful  not  to  cook  too  long  or  the  egg  will  curdle.  Remove,  and 
when  cold  pour  over  salad.  This  may  be  prepared  the  day  before, 
adding  the  dressing  just  before  using.  Add  lemon  juice  to  improve 
the  flavor,  and  garnish  the  top  with  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  C.  E, 
Shirmer,  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 

Chicken  Salad. 
Boil  one  chicken  tender;    chop  moderately  fine  the  whites  of 

twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  and  the  chicken ;  add  equal  quantities  of 
chopped  celery  and  cabbage ;  mash  the  yolks  fine,  add  two  table- 
spoons butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoon  mustard ;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  and  lastly,  one  half-cup  good  cider  vinegar;  pour 
over  the  salad,  and  mix  thoroughly.  If  no  celery  is  at  hand,  use 
fhopped  pickled  cucumbers  or  lettuce  and  celery  seed.  This  may 
be  mixed  two  or  three  days  before  using. — Mrs,  Judge  Lawrence^ 

BeUefontaine, 

Chicken  Salad. 

Four  chickens ;  two  bunches  of  celery  to  each  chicken  ;  one  pint 
vinegar,  two  eggs,  two  table-spoons  salad  oil,  two  of  liquid  mustard^ 
one  of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  one  salt-spoon  red  pepper ;  make  a  cus^ 
tard  of  eggs  and  vinegar ;  beat  oil,  mustard,  and  red  pepper  to- 
gether ;  stir  into  custard  ;  add  celery  just  before  using.  The  above 
18  sufiicient  for  twenty  persons. — Mrs.  J.    W.  0.,  Ricknumd, 


SALADS.  291 

Cucumber  Salad. 
Peel  and  slice  cucumbers ;  mix  with  salt,  and  let  stand  half  an 
hour ;  mix  two  tablespoons  3weetK)il  or  ham  gravy  with  as  much 
yinegar,  and  a  tea-spoon  sugar ;  add  the  cucumbers,  which  should 
be  drained  a  httle ;  add  a  tea-spoon  pepper,  and  stir  well.  Sliced 
onioDsarean  addition,  if  their  flavor  is  liked. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Mahncke, 

Ham  Salad. 
Cut  up  small  bits  of  boiled  ham,  place  in  salad-bowl  with  the 
hearts  and  inside  leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce.  Make  dressing  as  fol- 
lows :  Mix  in  a  sauce-pan  one  pint  sour  cream,  as  free  from  milk  as 
possible,  aud  half  pint  good  vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  sugar,  and  a  small  table-spoon  of  mustard  mixed  smooth ; 
boil,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  stirring  carefully  as  for 
float,  until  it  thickens  to  the  consistency  of  starch,  then  set  in  a  cool 
place  or  on  ice,  and  when  cold  pour  over  salad  and  mix  well. — Mrs. 
&  Watson^  Upper  Sandtuky^  Ohio. 

Herring  Salad. 
Soak  over  night  three  Holland  herrings  cut  in  very  small  pieces; 
cook  and  peel  eight  medium  potatoes,  and  when  cold  chop  with  two 
small  cooked  red  beets,  two  onions,  a  few  sour  apples,  some  roasted 
veal,  and  three  hard  boiled  eggs ;  mix  with  a  sauce  of  'sweet>oil, 
vinegar,  stock,  pepper,  and  mustard  to  taste.  A  table-spoon  of 
thick  sour  cream  improves  the  sauce,  which  should  stand  over  night 
in  an  earthen  dish. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Mahndke. 

Lettuce  Salad. 
Take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  salt  and  mustard 

to  taste;   mash  it  fine;  make  a  paste   by  adding  a  dessertspoon 

of  olive^il  or  melted  butter  (use  butter  always  when  it  is  difficuR 

to  ^t  fresh,  oil)  ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  dilute  by  adding  gradr 

woffy  a  tea-cup  of  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  lettuce.     Garnish  by 

ditsin/g  another  tg^  and  laying  over  the  lettuce.     This  is  sufficient 

for  a  moderate-sized  dish  of  lettuce.— 3/r«.  CW.  Reidy  Delaware,  Ohu>. 

Lobster  Salad. 
Put  a  large  lobster  over  the  fire  in  boiling  water  slightly  salted; 
boil  rapidly  for  about  twenty  minutes ;  when  done  it  will  be  of  a 
bright  red  color,  and  should  be  removed,  as  if  boiled  too  long  it  will 


292  SALADS. 

be  tough  \  when  cold,  crack  the  daws,  after  first  diqointbg,  twist 
off  the  head  (which  is  used  in  garnishing),  split  the  body  in  two 
lengthwise,  pick  out  the  meat  in  bits  not  too  fine,  saving  the  cond 
separate ;  cut  up  a  large  head  of  lettuce  slightly,  and  place  on  a 
dish  over  which  lay  the  lobster,  putting  the  coral  around  the  out- 
side. For  dressing,  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat  well,  add 
four  table-spoons  salad-oil,  dropping  it  in  very  slowly,  beating  aU 
t  he  time ;  then  add  a  little  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  half  tea-spoon 
mixed  mustard,  and  two  table-spoons  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the 
lobster,  just  before  sending  to  table. — Mn,  A,  Wilson,  Rife,  N.  T. 

Potato  Salad. 
Boil  four  large  Irish  potatoes,  peel  and  mash  smooth ;  mince  two 
onions,  and  add  to  the  potato,  make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  three 
hard'boiled  eggs,  one  small  tea-cup  of  vinegar,  one  tearspoon  black 
pepper,  one  dessert-spoon  each  of  celery  seeds  and  salt,  one  table- 
spoon each  of  prepared  mustard  and  melted  butter ;  mix  well  with 
potato,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  egg  and  celery  or  lettuce.  Or, 
chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine  with  enough  raw  onions  to  season 
•  nicely;  make  a  dressing  as  for  lettuce  salad,  and  pour  over  it. — 
Mn.  James  A,  JenrUngs,  Nashville,  Tennessee. 

Salmon  Salad. 
Set  a  can  of  salmon  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  let  boil  twenty 
minutes,  take  out  of  the  can  and  put  in  a  deep  dish,  pour  off  the 
juice  or  oil,  put  a  few  cloves  in  and  around  it,  sprinkle  salt  and 
pepper  over,  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  and  let  it  stand  a  day,  take 
it  from  the  vinegar  and  lay  it  on  a  platter.  Prepare  a  dressing  as 
fellows :  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  itiw  eggs  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
lx)iled  hard  and  mashed  fine  as  possible;  add  gradually  a  table- 
spoon mustard,  three  of  melted  butter,  or  the  best  of  salad-oil,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper  (either  black  or  cayenne),  and  vinegar  to  taste. 
Beat  the  mixture  a  long  time  (some  persons  like  the  addition  of 
lemon  juice  and  a  little  brown  sugar) ;  cover  the  salmon  thickly 
I  with  a  part  of  the  dressing,  tear  up  very  small  the  crisp  inside 

leaves  of  lettuce,  put  in  the  remainder  of  the  mixture,  and  pour 
over  with  two  or  three  larger  pieces  placed  around  the  salmon,  and 
serve* 


SALADS.  293 

Tomato  Salad. 
Take  the  skin,  juice,  and  seeds  from  nice,  fresh  tomatoes,  chop 
what  remains  with  celery,  and  add  a  good  salad-dressing. 

Salad  Dressing. 
Yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  very  fine  and  smooth,  one 

tearspoon  English  mustard,  oue  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs 

beaten  into  the  other,  dessertrgpoon  of  fine  sugar.     Add  very  fresh 

Bweet-oil  poured  in  by  very  small  quantities,  and  beaten  as  long  as 

the  mixture  continues  to  thicken,  then  add  vinegar  till  as  thin  as 

desired.      If  not  hot  enough  with   mustard,  add  a   little  cayenne 

pepper.— 3fr«.  Gov.  Cheney 

Salad  Dressing. 
The  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  thoroughly,  one  level  tea-spoon  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  two  of  white  sugar,  two  tea-spoons  prepared  mustard, 
one  table-spoon  butter;  stir  in  the  mixture  four  table-spoons  best 
vmegar,  put  dressing  into  a  bowl,  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  and 
stir  constantly  till  it  thickens ;  set  away,  and  when  cool  it  is  ready 
for  use.  This  is  sufiScieut  for  one  quart  finely-chopped  cabbage,  and 
should  be  poured  over  while  hot,  and  thoroughly  mixed  with  the 
cabbage,  which  may  then  be  placed  upon  a  platter,  formed  into  an 
oyal  mound,  and  served  cold. 

Bottled  Salad  Dressing. 
Beat  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  add  to  them  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon each  of  salt,  mustard,  and  black  pepper,  a  little  cayenne,  and 
half  a  cup  of  cream ;  mix  thoroughly ;  bring  to  a  boil  a  pint  and  a 
Wf  vinegar,  add  one  cup  butter,  let  come  to  a  boil,  pour  upon  the 
mixture,  stir  well,  and  when  cold  put  into  bottles,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  It  will  keep  for  weeks  in  the  hottest  weather,  and  is  excel- 
lent for  cabbage  or  lettuce. 

Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw. 
Two  tablespoons  whipped  sweet  cream,  two  of  sugar,  and  four 
of  vinegar ;  beat  well  and  pour  over  cabbage,  previously  cut  very 
fine  and  seasoned  with  salt. — MisB  Laura  Sfiarp^  Klngeton. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 
^t  a  raw  egg  (some  use  the  yolks  only)  with  a  salt-spoon  of  salt 
(usmg  a  wooden-spoon)  until  it  is  thoroughly  smooth,  add  a  tea-spoon 


294  SALADS. 

mixed  mustard  made  rather  thicker  than  usual ;  when  quite  smooth 
add  by  degrees  (a  few  drops  only  at  a  time)  a  half-pint  of  olive-oil, 
taking  care  to  blend  each  portion  of  it  with  the  egg  before  adding 
more.  This  ought  to  be  as  smooth  as  honey,  and  thick  enough  so 
that  a  spoon  will  stand  up  in  it ;  dilute  with  vinegar  until  it  assumes 
the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  A  little  anchovy  may  be  added  if 
desired.  Lemon  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar,  or  a  few 
drops  may  be  added  with  the  vinegar.  This  is  the  smoothest  and 
richest  of  salad  dressings.  The  oily  flavor  is  entirely  lost  in  com- 
bination with  the  raw  egg.  When  you  begin  to  add  the  oil,  drop  a 
very  little  at  first  as  it  may  curdle  the  egg.  This  sauce  keeps  well, 
if  bottled  and  corked  with  a  glass  stopper,  and  it  may  be  made  at 
any  time  in  advance,  if  only  yolks  are  used,  when  yolks  are  lefk 
over  from  baking.  In  summer,  place  oil  and  eggs  in  a  cold  place, 
half  an  hour  before  making. 

Salad-Dressino  with  Potato. 

Peel  one  large  potato,  boil,  mash  until  all  lumps  are  out,  and  add 
the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  stir  all  well  t<jgether  and  season  with  a  tea- 
spoon of  mustard  and  a  little  salt ;  add  about  half  a  gill  of  olive- 
oil  and  vinegar,  putting  in  only  a  drop  or  two  at  a  time,  and  stir- 
ring constantly,  as  the  succass  of  the  dressing  depends  on  its  smooth« 
ness.  This  dressing  is  very  nice  with  celery  or  cabbage  chopped 
fine,  and  seasoned  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar. — Mrs.  E,  L,  Fay. 

Otsteb  Salab. 

Half  gallon  each  fresh  oysters  and  celery  cut  into  dice,  yolks  of 
four  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  raw  egg  whipped,  two  large  spoons  melted 
butter,  two  tea-spoons  each  of  salt,  black  pepper  and  made  mustard, 
one  tea-cup  vinegar,  two  pickled  cucumbers  cut  fine.  Drain  liquor 
from  oysters,  throw  in  hot  vinegar  on  the  fire,  let  them  stay  until 
plump,  not  cooked.  Put  at  once  in  cold  water,  drain  off,  and  set  in 
cool  place ;  prepare  dressing.  Bub  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  with 
the  yolks  finely  mashed ;  add  butter,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  When 
smooth,  add  beaten  egg,  then  vinegar  by  the  spoonful ;  set  aside.  Mix 
oysters,  celery  and  pickle,  tossing  up  well  with  a  silver  fork;  salt  to 
taste.     Pour  dressing  over  all. — Mn,  OoL  O,  8.  Park,  Parkville,  Mo. 


SHELL-FISH. 


There  is  not  a  lover  of  oysters  in  existence  who  does  not  heartily 
sympathize  with  the  boy  who  wanted  to  spell  August  "  O-r-g-u-s-t," 
in  order  to  bring  it  into  the  list  of  the  months  which  contain  an  **r,* 
in  all  of  which  oysters  are  in  season.  The  delicious  bivalves  furnish 
an  important,  and,  in  most  localities,  a  not  expensive  article  of  food ; 
and  the  ease  with  which  they  are  prepared  for  the  table,  and  the 
great  variety  of  ways  in  which  they  may  be  cooked  and  served, 
make  them  a  great  favorite  with  housekeepers. 

Oysters  in  the  shell  must  be  kept  in  a  cool  cellar,  and  occasionally 
sprinkled  with  salt  water.  When  fresh,  the  shell  is  firmly  closed; 
if  open,  the  oyster  is  dead  and  unfit  for  use.  The  small-shelled 
oysters  have  the  finest  flavor.  For  the  freshness  of  canned  oysters 
it  is  necessary  to  tni^t  to  the  dealer,  but  never  buy  cans  the  sides 
of  which  are  swollen.  .  In  preparing  them  for  cooking  or  for  the 
table,  carefully  remove  all  bits  of  shell.  Never  salt  oysters  for 
soups  or  stews  till  just  before  removing  them  from  the  fire,  or  they 
will  shrivel  up  and  be  hard,  and  do  not  add  butter.  In  frying,  a 
Uttk  bahing-jxywder  added  to  the  cracker-dust  or  corn-meal  in  which 
they  are  rolled  will  greatly  improve  them.  Boasting  in  the  shell 
preserves  the  natural  flavor.  Always  serve  immediately  after'  cooking^ 
no  matter  what  method  is  used. 

As  to  nutritive  qualities,  oysters  rank  much  below  butcher's  meats, 
and  it  is  even  questioned  whether  they  contain  the  phosphorus,  or 
brain  food,  which  has  been  credited  to  them  in  company  with  the 
finny  tribe  in  general.  But,  when  properly  cooked,  they  are  easy 
of  digestion,  and  very  proper  food  for  persons  whose  occupation  is 

-296) 


296 


SHELL-FISH, 


sedentary,  and  whose  duties  do  not  call  for  heavy  muscular  exertion. 
Even  for  invalids,  they  are  nutritious  and  wholesome,  when  deli- 
cately prepared. 

Clam  Chowder. 
Chop  fifty  clan)/B,  peel  and  slice  ten  raw  potatoes,  cut  into  dice  six 
oiiions  and  a  half  pound  fat  salt  pork,  slice  six  tomatoes  (if  canned 
use  a  coffee-cup  inll),  add  a  pound  i)ilot  crackers;  first  put  pork  in 
l»ottom  of  pot  and  try  out,  partially  cook  onions  in  pork-fat,  remove 
ihe  mass  from  pot,  and  put  on  a  plate  bottom  side  up ;  make  layers 
of  the  ingredients,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with  water 
and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  adding  chopped  parsley  to  taste. 

Clam  Pie. 
Take  three  pints  of  either  hard  or  soft-shell  clams  (if  large,  chop 
slightly),  put  in  a  sauce-pan  and  bring  to  a  boil  in  their  own  liquor^ 
or  add  a  little  water  if  needed ;  have  ready  four  medium-sized  po* 
tatoes,  boiled  till  done  and  cut  into  small  squares ;  make  a  nice  pie< 
paste  with  which  line  a  medium-sized  pudding-dish  half  way  down 
the  sides ;  turn  a  small  tea-cnp  bottom  up  in  middle  of  dish  to  keep 
up  the  top  crust ;  put  in  first  a  layer  of  clams,  and  then  a  few  po- 
tatoes, season  with  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and 
dredge  with  fiour;  add  another  layer  of  clams,  and  m  on  till  dish 
is  filled,  adding  juice  of  clams,  and  a  little  water  if  necessary  (there 
should  be  about  as  much  liquid  as  for  chicken-pic).  Cover  with 
top-crust,  cutting  several  slits  for  steam  to  escape,  and  bake  thre» 
quarters  of  an  hour.  — Mrs.  A.  Tf%on,  Rye;  N.  Y, 

Clam  Stew. 

Take  half  peck  hard-shell  clams,  wash  shells  clean,  and  put  in  a 
kettle  with  about  one  tea-cup  water ;  let  steam  until  the  shells  open, 
when  take  out  of  shell,  strain  juice,  and  return  it  with  clams  to  th<^ 
fire ;  after  they  come  to  a  boil,  add  one  pint  milk,  a  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  e^g,  three  crackers  rolled  fine,  pepper,  and  salt  if  any  is 
needed. — Mrs,  A.  W. 

Fried  Clams. 

Bemove  from  shell  large  soft-shell  clams;  beat  an  egg  well  and 
add  two  table-spoons  water ;  have  the  clam?  dried  in  a  towel,  and 
dip  them  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  finely-n  iled  cracker  or  bread* 


SHELL-FISH.  297 

crombsy  and  fry  (longer  than  oysters)  in  sweet  lard  or  butter.     Oys* 
ters  may  be  prepared  for  cooking  in  same  way. — Mrs,  A.  W, 

Deviled  Crabs. 
Pick  the  meat  irom  a  boiled  crab  and  cut  in  fine  bits,  add  one* 
third  as  much  bread-crumbs,  two  or  three  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  lemon  juice;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  or  cream. 
Clean  tho  shells  nicely  and  ^11  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  oyer  with 
bread-crumbs  and  small  bits  of  butter,  and  brown  in  oven.  Lob- 
sters may  be  prepared  in  same  way,  and  served  in  silver  scallop- 
shells.  Or,  boil  one  pint  milk,  and  thicken  with  one  table-spoon 
com  starch  mixed  in  a  little  cold  milk,  season  with  pepper  (cayenne 
may  be  used)  and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  picked-up  lobster ;  put  in 
baking-dish,  and  cover  with  bread-crumbs  and  a  few  pieces  of  but- 
ter, and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs,  Cd.  S.,  Norfolk,  Va, 

Boiled  Oysters. 

Wash  shell-oysters  perfectly  clean,  place  in  a  small  willow  basket, 
drop  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  when  shells  open,  lift  basket, 
and  serve  oysters  on  the  half  shell. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Dry  large,  selected  oystei-s  in  a  napkin,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
broil  on  a  fine  folding  wire-broiler,  turning  frequently  to  keep  the 
juice  from  wasting.  Serve  immediately  in  a  hot  dish  with  little 
pieces  of  butter  on  them.  Or,  pepper  a  cup  of  dry  bread-crumbfe, 
dry  one  quart  of  oysters  in  a  napkin,  dip  each  in  butter  previously 
peppered,  roll  well  in  the  crumbs,  and  broil  over  a  good  fire  for 
five  to  seven  minutes.  Serve  immediately  in  a  hot  dish  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt. 

Broiled  Oysters  with  Pork. 

String  a  hair-pin  shaped  wire,  first  with  an  oyster,  then  with  a 
thin  slice  of  pork;  and  so  on  until  the  wire  is  filled  ;  fasten  ends  of 
wire  into  a  long  wooden  handle,  and  broil  before  the  fire.  Serve, 
with  the  pork,  if  you  like,  seasoning  slightly  with  pepper. 

Oyster  Croquettes. 
Scald  and  chop  fine  hard  part  of  the  oysters  (after  taking  the 
other  part  and  liquor  for  a  soup),  add  an  equal  weight  of  mashed 
potato ;  to  one  pound  of  this  add  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 


298 


SHELL-FISH. 


tea-spoon  salt,  half  tearspoon  of  pepper,  and  quarter  of  a  tea-cup 
cream.  Make  in  small  cakes,  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  btead-crumbs, 
and  fry  like  doughnuts. 

Broiled  Oysters  on  the  Half-shell. 
Select  large  shells,  clean  with  a  brush,  open,  saving  juice ;  put 
oysters  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes,  remove  and  place  each 
oyster  in  a  half-shell|  with  juice ;  place  on  a  gridiron  over  a  brisk 
fire,  and  when  they  b^in  to  boil,  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  (some  add  a  drop  of  lemon  juice.)     Serve  on  the  half-ehelL 

Curried  Oysters. 

Put  the  liquor  drained  from  a  quart  of  oysters  into  a  sauce-pan, 

add  a  half-cup  of  butter,  two  table-spoons  flour,  and  one  of  curry 

powder,  well  mixed ;  let  boil,  add  oysters,  and  a  little  salt;  boil  up 

once  and  serve. 

Deviled  Oysters. 

Wipe  the  oysters  dry  and  lay  in  a  flat  dish,  cover  with  a  mixture 

of  melted  butter,  cayenne  pepper  (or  pepper  sauce),   and  lemon 

juice.  Let  them  lie  in  this  fi>r  ten  minutes,  turning  them  frequently ; 

take  out,   roll  in  cracker  crumbs,   then   in   beaten  egg,  then  in 

crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter,  half  and  half 

EscALOPED  Oysters. 
Take  crushed  crackers,  not  too  fine ;  drain  liquor  from  a  quart 
of  oysters  and  carefully  remove  all  bits  of  shell,  butter  a  deep 
dish  or  pan,  cover  the  bottom  with  crackers,  put  in  a  layer  of  oys- 
ters seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter  in  plenty, 
then  a  layer  of  crackers,  then  oysters,  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full^ 
finishing  with  the  crackers  covered  with  bits  of  butter ;  pour  over 
the  whole  the  oyster-liquor  added  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
(boiled  and  skimmed),  place  in  a  hot  oven,  bake  half  an  hour,  add 
another  pint  of  hot  water,  or  half  pint  water  and  half  pint  of  milk, 
in  which  a  small  lump  of  butter  has  been  melted ;  bake  another 
half  hour,  and,  to  prevent  browning  too  much,  cover  with  a  tin  or 
sheet-iron  lid.  All  bread-crumbs,  or  a  mixture  of  crackers  and 
bread-crumbs  may  be  used  when  more  convenient.  As  the  amount 
of  liquor  in  oysters  varies,  and  the  proportion  of  crackers  or  bread- 
crumbs to  the  oysters  also  varies,  the  quantity  of  water  must  be 


SHELL-FISH.  299 

increased  or  diminished  according  to  judgment  and  taste.  Some 
prefer  to  cook  half  the  time  given  above.  Boiled  macaroni  may  be 
used  in  place  of  cracker-cmmbs. 

Terrapin. 

Cut  off  head,  put  on  to  boil  with  shell  on ;  when  done  enough, 
remove  under  shell,  and  pick  terrapin  in  pieces.  Clean  top  shell 
well;  add  a  few  crackers,  onions,  parsley,  allspice,  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  wine;  return  to  shell,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon,  and 
bake.  Add  Cayenne  pepper,  if  liked,  in  seasoning.  Terrapin  or 
turtle'  steaks  are  fine  smothered  in  an  egg  batter  before  frying. — 
Mrs,  J.  C.  Oioena,  Oiarleston,  South  Carolina. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Drain  carefnUy,  remove  all  bits  of  shell,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper 
£:nd  :^lt,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Then, 
T  oysters  are  small,  pour  them  into  a  pan  of  crackers  rolled  fine, 
add  the  liquor,  mix  well,  and  let  stand  five  minutes,  add  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  mold  into  small  cakes  with  two  or  three  oysters  in 
each,  roll  in  dry  crackers  until  well  encrusted,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
and  butter,  or  beef-drippings.     Serve  hot  in  a  covered  dish. 

Or,  dip  the  oysters  in  the  yolk  of  eggs,  well  seasoned  and  beaten, 
then  in  corn  meal  with  a  little  baking  powder  mixed  with  it,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts ;  or  if  you  have  frying  basket,  place 
them  on  that  and  drop  it  in  the  hot  lard.  Test  the  heat  as  for 
doughnuts. 

Or,  drain  thoroughly,  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  turn  so  as  to 
brown  on  both  sides.  They  cook  in  this  way  in  a  few  moments, 
and  the  peculiar  flavor  of  the  oysters  is  well  preserved.  Serve  on 
a  hot  covered  dish,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  or  add  a  little 
cream  just  before  serving,  and  sei-ve  on  toast ;  or  take  two  parts 
rolled  crackers  and  one  part  com  meal,  mix  well,  roll  the  oysters  in 
it,  and  fry  in  equal  parts  butter  and  lard.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.— ifr».  W,   W,  Wood». 

Fried  Oysters. 
To  fry  oysters,  take  two  dozen  large  oysters  (they  are  sold  under 
different  names  and  brands  in  different  markets),  drain  off  liquor; 


300 


SHELL-FISH. 


have  prepared  cracker  dust  (bought  of  any  grocer,  or  made  by 
crushmg  with  rolling  pin),  mix  well  one  tea-spoon  salt,  take  one  oys- 
ter at  a  time,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  and  lay  on  a  meat  board  or  plat- 
ter by  itself  until  all  are  so  encased,  and  laid  in  rows ;  let  remain 
fifteen  minutes,  now  take  the  oyster  first  rolled  in  cracker  dust  and 
dip  in  beaten  eggs  (yolk  and  white  beaten  together),  then  the  second 
oyster,  and  so  on  until  all  are  dipped,  then  roll  in  cracker  dust, 
following  same  order  as  before.  Let  them  remain  from  half  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  It  is  important  to  follow  the  same  cnrder 
in  each  operation,  to  give  the  liquor  of  the  oyster  time  to  drain 
out  and  be  absorbed  by  the  cracker  dust ;  now  heat  in  a  frying-pan 
one  pound  of  clarified  fat  or  lard ;  when  the  blue  smoke  arises 
(which  indicates  a  heat  of  376°,  the  proper  cooking  point),  drop 
into  it  a  peeled  potato  or  piece  of  hard  bread,  which  has  the  effect 
of  preventing  the  fat  growing  hotter,  drop  in  the  oysters  very  lightly, 
and  when  a  light  brown  turn  to  brown  the  other  side ;  and  then 
remove  to  a  colander  to  drain  a  moment,  or  lay  upon  a  piece  of 
brown  paper,  which  will  absorb  the  superfluous  grease.  The  time 
for  cooking  is  about  three  minutes.  Serve  while  Jwt  on  a  hot  platter. 
Fried  oysters,  to  be  at  their  best,  must  be  eaten  as  soon  as  cooked; 
and  when  a  second  supply  is  likely  to  be  needed,  it  should  be  cooked 
while  the  first  is  being  served  and  eaten.  It  is  better  not  to  touch 
the  oysters  with  the  hand,  as  it  tends  to  make  them  tough ;  all  the 
rolling  and  dipping  may  be  done  with  a  fork,  without  mangling  the 
oyster. 

Fricasseed  Oystebs. 

Take  a  slice  of  raw  ham  (corned  and  not  smoked),  soak  in 
boiling  water  for  half  an  hour,  cut  in  very  small  sUces  and  put 
in  a  sauce-pan  with  two-thirds  pint  of  veal  or  chicken  broth  well 
strained,  the  liquor  from  one  quart  oysters,  one  small  onion  minced 
very  fine,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  sweet  marjoram  and  pepper. 
Let  these  simmer  twenty  minutes,  boiling  rapidly  for  two  or  three 
minutes.  Then  skim  well  and  add  one  scant  table-spoon  of  com 
starch  mixed  smoothly  in  one-third  cup  of  milk,  stir  constantly, 
and  when  it  boUs  add  the  oysters  and  one  ounce  of  butter ;  just  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  remove  oysters  to  a  deeper  dish,  then  beat  one 
egg  and  add  to  it  gradually  some  of  the  hot  broth,  and  when  cooked 


8HELL-FISE.  301 

etir  it  into  the  pan  ;  season  with  salt  and  pour  all  over  the  oysters. 

When  placed  upon  the  table  some  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon 

over  it. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Drain  off  liquor,  boil,  skim,  and  to  a  cupful  add  a  cup  of  milk, 

two  or  three  ^gs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  fiour  enough  to  make  a 

rather  thick  batter.     Have  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings  ready  in  a 

kettle,  drop  the  batter  into  it  with  a  large  spoon,  taking  up  one 

oyster  for  each  spoonful.     The  oyster  must  be  large  and  plump. 

Oyster  Omelet. 
Add  to  a  half  cup  of  cream  six  eggs  beaten  very  light,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  table-spoon 
of  butter ;  drop  in  a  dozen  large  oysters  cut  in  halves,  or  chopped 
fine  with  parsley,  and  fry  until  a  light  brown.  Double  it  over,  and 
serve  immediately. — Mn,  T.  B.  Johnson,  Thiscvmbia. 

Panned  Oysters. 
Cut  stale  bread  in  thin  slices,  then  round  them,  removing  alt 
crust.  Make  them  to  fit  patty-pans;  toast  them,  butter,  and 
place  in  pans.  Moisten  with  three  or  four  tea-spoons  of  oyster 
liquor;  then  place  on  the  toast  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle  with 
pepper,  and  put  on  top  a  small  piece  of  butter;  place  pans  in  a 
baking  pan  and  put  in  oven,  covering  with  a  tin  lid,  or  if  not  large 
enough,  another  pan  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  flavor ;  have  a  quick 
oven,  and  when  cooked  seven  or  eight  minutes,  until  **ruflied," 
remove  cover  and  sprinkle  with  salt ;  replace  cover  and  cook  one 
minute  longer.     Serve  in  the  patty-pans.     This  is  delicious. 

Oyster  Pie. 

Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  puff-paste;  dredge  with  flour,  pour  in 
one  pint  oysters,  season  well  with  bits  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  sprinkle  flour  over;  pour  on  some  of  the  oyster-liquor,  and 
cover  with  a  crust  having  an  opening  in  the  center  to  allow  the 
steam  to  escape. 

Or,  line  the  pie-dish  half  way  up  with  good  pie-crust,  fill  the  dish 
with  pieces  of  stale  bread,  place  a  cover  of  paste  over  this,  and 
bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven.  Take  off  crust,  have 
teady  some  oysters  prepared  as  for  patties,  fill  the  pie  with  them. 


302 


SHELL-FISH. 


and  replace  the  crust  and  serve  at  once*;  or  line  dish  with  a  good 

puff-paste,  place  an  extra  layer  around  the  edge,  and  bake  in  a  brisk 

oven ;  fill  with  oysters,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  one  table-spoon 

butter,  sprinkle  slightly  with  flour,  and  cover  with  a  thin  crust  of 

paste ;  bake   quickly ;  when  the  top  crust  is  done,  the  pie  will  be 

ready  to  take  up.     Serve  promptly,  as  the  crust  quickly  absorbs  the 

gravy.     Some  like  this  cold  for  picnics  or  traveling. — Mrs,  Carrie 

Heck 

Oyster  Pickles. 

To  every  quart  of  liquor  add  a  teii-spoon  of  black  pepper,  a  pod 

of  red  pepper  broken  in  bits,  two  blades  of  mace,  a  tea-spoon  salt, 

two  dozen  cloves,  and  half  a  pint  of  best  vinegar,  add  the  oysters 

and  simmer  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  take  out  and  put  in  small 

jars;  then  boil  the  pickle,  skim  it,  and  pour  over  them.     Keep 

them  in  a  dark,  cool  place,  and  when  a  jar  is  opened,  use  up  its 

contents  as  quickly  as  possible.     Oysters  pickled  thus  will  keep 

good  four  or  five  weeks. 

Oyster  Roll. 

Cut  a  round  piece,  say  six  inches  across,  from  the  top  of  a  well- 
baked  round  loaf  of  bread,  remove  the  inside  from  the  loaf,  leaving 
crust  half  an  inch  thick;  make  a  rich  oyster  stew,  and  put  in  the 
loaf  first  a  layer  of  it,  then  of  bread-crumbs,  then  oysters,  and  so 
on ;  place  cover  over  the  top,  glaze  the  loaf  with  the  beaten  yolk 
fif  sua  ftgg,  and  place  in  oven  for  a  few  moments.     Serve  very  hot. 

Raw  Oysters. 

Wash  the  shells,  open,  detaching  the  flat  shell,  loosen  from  the 
deep  shell,  but  leave  them  in  it,  and  serve  half  dozen  on  a  plate, 
with  a  quarter  of  lemon  in  center.  Eat  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar. 

In  serving  them  without  the  shells  the  most  attractive  way  is  in 
H  dish  of  ice,  made  by  freezing  water  in  a  tin  form  shaped  like  a 
salad  bowl,  or  in  a  block  of  ice  from  which  a  cavity  has  been 
melted  with  a  hot  flat-iron.  They  should  first  be  drained  well  in  a 
colander,  sprinkled  with  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  placed  on 
the  ice  and  let  remain  in  a  cool  place  for  half  an  hour  or  imtil  time 
of  serving. 

A  simpler  and  equally  delicious  way  is  to  drain  well,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  the  dish  on  ice  or  in  a  dish  of  cold 


SHELL-FISH.  303 

ivater  for  half  an  hour  before  serving,  adding  bits  of  ice.     Serve 
with  horse'radish,  Chili  sauce,  slices  of  lemon,  or  simply  vinegar. 

Oysters  in  the  Shell. 
Open  the  shells,  keeping  the  deepest  ones  for  use.  Melt  some 
butter,  season  with  minced  parsley  and  pepper.  When  slightly 
cooled,  roll  each  oyster  in  it;  using  care  that  it  drips  but  little,  and 
lay  in  the  shells.  Add  to  each  shell  a  little  lemon  juice,  cover  with 
grated  bread-crumbs,  place  in  a  baking-pan  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven ;  just  before  they  are  done,  add  a  little  salt.     Serve  in  tiie 

Oyster  Spew. 
Put  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  on  the  stove,  let  boil,  skim,  and 

season  with  butter  and  pepper,  add  oysters,  let  come  to  a  hoU  only, 

eeason  with  salt  and  serve.     This  is  pronounced  a  **  royal  stew.** 

Steamed  Oysters. 
Lay  some  oysters  in  the  shell  in  some  air-tight  vessel,  placing  the 
tipper  shell  downward  so  the  liquor  will  not  run  out  when  they 
open.  Set  them  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  (where  they  will  get 
the  steam),  and  boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes;  if  the  oysters  are 
open  they  are  done ;  if  not,  steam  till  they  do  open.  Serve  at  once 
and  eat  hot,  with  salt  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Or,  wash  and  drain  one 
quart  select  oysters,  put  in  pan  and  place  in  steamer  over  boiling 
water,  cover  and  steam  till  oysters  are  plump  with  edges  ruffled; 
place  in  heated  dish  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Walled  Oysters. 
Make  a  wall  one  and  one-half  inches  high  and  three-quarters  wide 
of  one  quart  nicely  mashed  and  seasoned  potatoes,  just  inside  raised 
edge  of  platter,  glaze  it  by  covering  with  beaten  egg  and  placing  in 
oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Place  the  liquor  from  one  quart  oysters  in 
porcelain  kettle,  let  boil,  skim  well,  then^dd  oysters  seasoned  with 
salt,  boil  up  once,  skim  out  oysters  (milk  or  water  can  be  added  to 
the  liquor,  then  seasoned  with  butter  and  pepper,  and  served  as 
soup),  and  add  them  to  a  cream  dressing  made  by  putting  a  tea-cup 
rich  cream,  butter  size  of  half  an  egg,  and  a  little  pepper  and  tea- 
spoon salt  in  a  pan  placed  within  a  vessel  of  boiling  water ;  when 
hot  add  two  ounces  of  flour  mixed  smooth  in  some  cream  or  milk, 
and  let  cook  till  thickened,  then  place  oysters  and  dressing  within 
the  potato  and  serve  immediately. 


SOUPS. 


To  make  Dutritious,  healthful  and  palatable  soup,  with  flavors 
properly  commingled,  is  an  art  which  requires  study  and  practice, 
but  it  is  surprising  from  what  a  scant  allotment  of  material  a  deli- 
cate and  appetizing  dish  may  be  produced.  The  best  base  for  soup 
is  lean  uncooked  meat,  a  pound  of  meat  to  a  quart  of  water,  to 
which  may  be  added  chicken,  turkey,  beef,  or  mutton  bones  well 
broken  up;  a  mixture  of  beef,  mutton  and  veal,  with  a  bit  of  ham 
bone,  all  cut  fine,  makes  a  higher  flavored  soup  than  any  single 
meat ;  the  legs  of  all  meats  are  rich  in  gelatine,  an  important  con- 
stituent of  soup.     For  white  stock  use  veal  or  fowls  instead  of  beef. 

Soups,  which  make  the  principal  part  of  a  meal,  should  be  richer 
than  those  which  simply  precede  a  heavier  course  of  meats,  etc. 

When  remnants  of  cooked  meats  are  used,  chop  fine,  crush  the 
bones,  add  a  ham  bone  or  bit  of  bam  or  salt  pork  (two  or  three 
cubic  inches)  and  all  ends  of  roasts  and  fatty  parts,  and  the  brown 
&t  of  the  roast ;  make  the  day  previous  to  use ;  strain,  set  away 
over  night,  skim  off*  the  fat  (which  clarify  and  save  for  drippings), 
and  it  is  ready  to  heat  and  serve. 

When  soup  is  desired  for  a  first  course,  daily,  a  soup-kettle  should 
be  especially  provided,  with  a  faucet  to  draw  off*  the  clear  soup  to 
be  seasoned  for  each  day ;  and  all  the  bones  and  bits  of  meat  left 
after  dinner  can  be  thrown  into  the  kettle,  also  bits  of  vegetables 
and  bread,  and  the  gravies  that  are  left  from  roast  meats  and  cut- 
lets. In  this  way  there  will  be  nothing  lost,  and  the  soups  can  be 
varied  by  seasonings  and  thickenings  of  different  kinds.  Every 
two  or  three  days,  however,  the  contents  of  the  kettle  should  be 
turned  out,  after  all  the  liquid  hai«  been  drawn  off,  and  the  kettle 


SOUPS.  306 

irafihed  dean  and  scalded,  for  if  this  is  not  attended  to,  the  fsoups 
will  soon  lose  their  piquant  flavor  and  become  stale. 

In  using  fresh  meat  throw  the  pieces  as  cut  into  the  required 
quantity  of  cold  water  and  let  stand  until  the  juices  of  the  meat 
begin  to  color  it,  then  put  on  to  boil ;  in  this  way  the  juices  of  the 
meat  are  more  readily  drawn  out.  The  soup  is  done  when  the  meat 
is  juiceless. 

The  best  herbs  are  sage,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  tarragon,  mint, 
sweet  basil,  parsley,  bay-leaves,  cloves,  mace,  celery-seed  and  onions. 
Plant  the  seed  of  any  of  the  seven  flrst-mentioned  in  little  boxes 
OD  the  window  sill,  or  in  a  sunny  spot  in  the  yard.  Grather  and 
dry  them  as  follows:  parsley  and  tarragon  should  be  dried  in  June 
and  July,  just  before  flowering;  mint  in  June  and  July;  thyme, 
marjoram  and  savory  in  July  and  August ;  basil  and  sage  in  August 
and  September ;  all  herbs  should  be  gathered  in  the  sunshine,  and 
dried  by  artificial  heat ;  their  flavor  is  best  preserved  by  keeping 
them  in  air-tight  tin  cans,  or  in  tightly-corked  glass  bottles. 

Seasonings  for  soups  may  be  varied  to  suit  tastes.  The  simplest 
may  have  only  pepper  and  salt,  while  the  richest  may  have  a  little 
of  every  savor,  so  delicately  blended  that  no  one  is  conspicuous. 
The  best  seasoning  is  that  which  is  made  up  of  the  smallest  quan' 
tity  from  each  of  many  spices.  No  measure  can  be  given,  because 
the  good  soup-maker  must  be  a  skillful  taster.  There  must  be  a 
flavor  of  salt;  that  is,  the  water  must  not  be  insipid  (less  is  needed 
if  bits  of  salt  meat  are  used),  there  must  be  a  warm  tone  from  the 
pepper,  but  not  the  taste  of  pepper;  in  short,  the  spicing  should  be 
delicate  rather  than  profuse.  Those  who  like  rank  flavors  may  add 
them  to  suit  their  coarse  and  uneducated  palates.  For  brown  soups 
the  dark  spices  may  be  used  ;  for  white,  mace,  aromatic  seeds,  cream 
and  curry.  Many  herbs,  either  fresh  or  dried,  are  used  as  seasoning, 
and  all  the  choice  catsups  and  sauces. 

Rice,  sago,  pearled  barley,  vermicelli,  macaroni,  etc.,  are  desir- 
able additions  to  meat  soups.     The  flrst  three  are  used  in  the  pro-  I 
portion  of  half  a  tea-cup  to  three  quarts  of  soup ;  wash  and  soak.  ^ 
Rice  requires  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  boiling  in  the  soup; 
sago  cooks  in  fifteen  minutes ;  barley  should  be  soaked  over  night, 

or  for  several  hours;  boil  by  itself  in  a  little  water  till  tender;  add 

20  I 


806 


SOUPS, 


to  the  soup  just  before  serving.  Vermicelli  and  macaroni  should 
be  broken  up  small,  and  washed  thoroughly  ;  boil  in  the  soup  half 
an  hour. 

'  If  a  soup  is  wanted  without  any  addition  of  vegetables,  but  thick- 
ened, arrow-root  or  corn  starch  is  used  in  the  proportion  of  two 
round  tea-spoons  of  the  latter  and  two  scant  tea-spoons  of  the  former 
to  a  quart  of  soup.  Mix  with  a  little  water  until  smooth,  and  add 
when  the  soup  is  nearly  done.  Wheat  flour  is  also  used  for  thick- 
ening, but  it  requires  three  round  table-spoons  to  the  quart.  If  not 
thick  enough  to  suit  the  taste  more  may  be  added.  Browned  flour 
does  not  thicken,  the  starchy  property  having  been  removed  in  the 
browning  process. 

Thickened  soups  require  more  seasoning  than  thin  soups ;  if  wanted 
very  clear  and  delicate,  strain  through  a  hair  sieve. 

Always  use  cold  water  in  making  all  soups ;  skim  well,  especially 
during  the  first  hour.  There  is  great  necessity  for  thorough  skim- 
ming, and  to  help  the  scum  rise,  pour  in  a  little  cold  water  now  and 
then,  and  as  the  soup  reaches  the  boiling  point,  skim  it  off  Use 
salt  at  first  sparingly,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  allow  one 
quart  soup  to  three  or  four  persons. 

For  a  quick  soup,  crush  the  bone  and  cut  the  meat  rather  fine ; 
when  done,  strain  and  serve.  Every  kitchen  should  be  provided 
with  a  soup-kettle  (which  has  a  double  bottom),  or  a  large  iron  pot 
with  a  tight-fitting  tin  cover  with  a  hole  size  of  a  large  darning- 
needle  in  it  i^t  one  side  of  the  handle.  Keep  kettle  covered  closely, 
eo  that  the  flavor  may  not  be  lost,  and  simmer  slowly,  so  that  the 
quantity  may  not  be  much  reduced  by  evaporation,  but  if  it  has 
boiled  away  (which  may  be  the  case  when  the  meat  is  to  be  uaed 
for  the  table),  pour  in  as  much  hot  water  as  is  needed,  and  add 
vegetables,  noodles,  or  any  thickening  desired.  Vegetables  should 
be  added  just  long  enough  before  soup  is  done  to  allow  them  to  he 
thoroughly  cooked.  An  excellent  soup  for  a  small  fiimily  may  he 
made  from  the  bones  and  trimmings  cut  from  a  steak  before  broil- 
ing. The  bones  from  a  rib  roast,  which  are  generally  cut  out  and 
thrown  away  by  the  butcher,  after  weighing,  should  always  he 
ordered  sent  with  roast  and  used  for  soup. 

For  coloring  and  flavoring  soups,  use  caramel,  browned  flour. 


SOUPS.  307 

onions  fried  brown,  meat  with  cloves  in  it,  or  browned  with  butter. 
Poached  eggs  are  an  excellent  addition  to  some  soups.  They  should 
be  added  just  before  serving,  one  for  each  person.  They  may  be 
poached  in  water  or  dropped  into  the  boiling  soup,  or  two  or  three 
eggs,  well-beaten  and  added  just  before  pouring  in  tureen,  make  a 
nice  thickening.  Cayenne  pepper  or  a  bit  of  red  pepper  pod,  Wor- 
cestershire, Halford,  or  Chili  sauce,  and  catsups,  are  considered  by 
many  an  improvement  to  soup,  but  must  be  cautiously  used.  Force- 
meat balls,  made  of  the  meat  boiled  for  the  soup,  are  also  used. 

SOUP   STOCK. 

To  four  pounds  of  lean  beef  (the  inferior  parts  are  quite  as  good 
for  this  purpose)  put  four  quarts  of  cold  water  (soft  is  best),  wash 
the  meat  and  put  it  in  the  water  without  salt ;  let  it  come  slowly  to 
boiling  point,  skim  well  before  the  agitation  of  the  water  has  broken 
the  scum,  add  a  little  salt,  and  a  dash  of  cold  water,  to  assist  the 
scum  to  rise,  skim  again,  set  back  and  let  it  boil  gently  on  one  side 
or  in  one  place,  and  not  all  over  ("  the  pot  should  smile,  not  laugh  "), 
for  six  or  eight  hours,  until  the  meat  is  in  rags  (rapid  boiling 
hardens  the  fiber  of  the  meat  and  the  savory  flavor  escapes  with  the 
steam),  add  a  little  pepper,  strain  into  a  stone  jar,  let  it  cool,  and  re- 
move all  the  grease.     This  stock  will  keep  for  many  days  in  cold 
weather,  and  from  it  can  be  made  all  the  various  kinds  of  soups  b; 
adding   onion,   macaroni,   celery,  asparagus,  green   pease,   carrot, 
tomato,  okra,  parsley,  thyme,  summer  savory,  sage,  and  slices  of 
lemon;  many  of  the  herbs  may  be  first  dried,  then  pulverized  and 
put  in  cans  or  jiu*s  for  winter  use.     Celery  and  carrot  seed  may  be 
used  in  place  of  the   fresh  vegetables.     Macaroni  should  be  first 
boiled  in  slightly  salted  water,  cut  in  pieces  one  or  two  inches  long, 
and  added  a  short  time  before  serving.     To  prepare  soup  for  dinner, 
cut  off  a  slice  of  the  jelly,  add  water,  heat  and  serve.     Whatever  is 
added  to  this,  such  as  rice,  tapioca,  vegetables,  etc.,  may  first  be 
cooked  before  being  added,  as  murh  boiling  injures  the  flavor  of  the 
stock. 

A  rich  stock  can  also  be  made  from  a  shank  or  shin  of  beef 
(knuckle  of  veal  is  next  best) ;  cut  in  several  pieces,  crack  the 
bones,  add  four  quarts  water,  boil  up  quickly,  skim,  add  salt,  skim, 
and  let  boil  gently  until  the  liquor  is  reduced  one-half;  strain,  cool 


/ 


308 


S0UF8. 


and  skim,  and  if  boiled  praperlj  and  long  enough,  an  exoeUent  jelly 
will  result.     Too  violet  boiling  makes  the  stock  cloudy  and' dark. 
To  clarify  stock  that  has  been  darkened  by  careless  skimming  and 
improper  boiling,   mix  one  egg  and  shell  in  a  gill  of  cold  water,  add 
a  gill  of  the  boiling  soup,  then  stir  into  the  soup  until  it  boils  up;  re- 
move to  back  of  stove,  and  let  stand  until  the  white  and  shell  of  the 
egg  have  collected  the  particles  that  color  the  soup,  and  strain  once  or 
twice  until  it  looks  clear.     Stock  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand 
and  cool  in  the  pot  in  which  it  is  cooked ;  pour  into  an  earthen  dish, 
let  stand  to  cool  uncovered,  when  all  the  &t  should  be  removed  and 
saved  to  clarify  for  drippings ;  the  stock  is  then  ready  for  use  as 
wanted  for  soups  or  gravies.     The  flavor  of  stock  may  be  varied  by 
using  in  it  a  little  ham,  anchovy,  sausage,  sugar,  or  a  calf's  foot. 
Sprigs  of  herbs,  and  whole  spices  may  be  used  in  seasoning,  and 
afterward  strained  out.    Delicate  flavors  should  be  added  just  before 
serving,  as  boiling  evaporates  them.    Stock  made  from  meat  without 
bone  or  gristle  will  not  jelly,  but  will  taste  very  like  good  beef- 
tea.      Never  boil  vegetables  with  stock,  as  they  will  cause  it  to 
become  sour. 

An  economical  soup-stock  may  be  made  of  steak  or  roast-beef 
bones,  after  cooking,  adding  a  little  piece  of  fresh  meat,  or  none  at 
all,  and  allowing  it  to  simmer  at  least  five  hours;  strain,  remove  all 
&t  the  next  day,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

SOUP   FROM  STOCK. 

To  make  soup  from  any  stock,  put  on  as  much  stock  as  needed 
(if  in  jelly,  scrape  the  sediment  from  off*  the  bottom),  add  seasoning, 
water  and  vegetables.  The  potatoes  should  be  peeled,  sliced,  and 
laid  in  salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour,  the  cabbage  parboiled  and 
drained,  and  all  others  either  sliced  or  cut  fine,  before  adding  them 
to  the  soup;  boil  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  strain  through  a 
colander  and  serve  at  once. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

When  stock  is  drawn  ofi*,  season  with  celery  salt.  A  little  vermicelli 
boiled  in  it  for  fifteen  minutes  will  give  it  more  body — or  some  of 
the  fancy  letters,  stars,  triangles,  etc.,  that  are  made  particularly 
for  soups  can  be  used,  or  egg-balls  can  be  made  by  mixing  raw  egg 
with  just  enough  wheat  flour  or  corn  starch  to  make  it  into  round 


SOUPS,  309 

balls,  then  drop  them  into  the  soup  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  A 
little  milk,  a  tea-spoon  to  one  egg,  is  an  improvement ;  also  a 
sprinkle  of  salt.  These  balls  are  sometimes  called  '*  noodles/'  If  a 
richer  soup  is  needed,  take  slices  of  mw  veal  and  a  little  salt  pork, 
and  chop  very  fine  with  a  slice  of  wheat  bread.  Season  highly  with 
pepper,  salt,  tomato  catsup,  and  chopped  lemon  peel,  moisten  with 
two  well-beateu  eggs,  and  roll  into  balls  as  large  as  a  walnut,  with 
floured  hands.  Fry  the  balls  in  butter  to  a  dark  brown,  and  h ". 
them  cool;  turn  into  the  soup  and  boil  about  ten  minutes.  Cut  a 
lemon  into  very  thin  bits,  slice  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  put  them  into 
the  tuieen ;  add  a  glass  of  claret  or  port  wine  to  them  and  turn  in 
aoup;  it  is  a  very  **  dainty  dish." 

Clam  Soup.* 

First  catch  yotir  clams — along  the  ebhing  edges 

Of  saline  coves  you*  11  find  the  precious  wedges, 

With  backs  up,  lurking  In  th..  sandy  bottom  ; 

Pull  in  your  iron  rake,  and  lo !  you  've  got  'em  1 

Take  thirty  large  ones,  put  a  basin  under, 

And  cleave,  with  knife,  their  stony  jaws  asunder; 

Add  water  (three  quarts)  to  the  native  liquor. 

Bring  to  a  boil,  (and,  by  the  way,  the  quicker 

It  boils  the  better,  if  you'd  do  it  cutely.) 

Kow  add  the  clams,  chopped  up  and  minced  minutely. 

Allow  a  longer  boil  of  just  three  minutes, 

And  while  it  bubbles,  quickly  stir  within  its 

Tumultuous  depths  where  still  the  mollusks  mutter, 

Four  tablespoons  of  flour  and  four  of  butter, 

A  pint  of  milk,  some  {>epper  to  your  notion, 

And  clams  need  salting,  although  born  of  ocean. 

Remove  from  fire ;  (if  much  boiled  they  will  sufifer— 

You'll  find  that  India-rubber  is  n't  tougher.) 

After  'tis  off,  add  three  fresh  eggs,  well-beaten, 

Stir  once  more,  and  it's  ready  to  be  eaten. 

Fruit  of  the  wave !  O,  dainty  and  delicious ! 

Food  for  the  gods !  Ambrosia  for  Apicius ! 

Worthy  to  thrill  the  soul  of  sea-born  Venus, 

Or  titillate  the  palate  of  Silenus  ! 

An  Economical  Soup. 
Take  a  soup  bone  (any  piece  of  beef  not  too  fat  wiU  do),  wash 
well,  plaoe  in  kettle  with  sufficient  cold  water  for  soup ;  let  it  boil, 

'Written  egpedally  ft>r  this  book,  by  W.  A.  CBOFFirr,  editor  of  **  Amerioan  Qaeen,* 
Ktv  York. 


310 


SOUPS, 


skim  thoroughly  and  continue  to  boil  slowly  from  three  to  six  hours, 
accofding  to  size  and  quality  of  meat ;  one  hour  before  dinner,  put 
in  cabbage  cut  in  quarters,  sprinkling  it  with  salt;  quarter  of  an 
hour  after  add  turnips  halved  or  quartered  according  to  size;  quarter 
of  an  hour  after  turnips,  add  potatoes  whole,  or  cut  in  two  if  lai^ge 
(turnips  and  potatoes  should  be  pared  aud  laid  in  cold  water  half 
an  hour  before  using).     When  done  take  out  vegetables  and  meat, 
place  in  heater,  or  if  you  have  no  heater,  place  plates  over  a  pot  or 
skillet  of  boiling  water.     If  there  is  not  enough  soup,  add  boilings 
water,  stir  in  a  little  thickening  of  flour  and  water,  let  it  boil  thor- 
oughly ;  season  to  the  taste  with  salt  anjl  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 
The  soup  will  be  excellent  and  the  vegetables  very  fine. 

Asparagus  Soup. 
Cut  the  tops  from  about  thirty  heads  of  asparagus,  about  half  an 
inch  long,  and  boil  the  rest ;  cut  off  all  the  tender  portions  and  rub 
through  a  sieve,  adding  a  little  salt;  warm  three  pints  soup  stock, 
add  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  a  tea-spoon  of  flour  previously 
cooked  by  heating  the  butter  and  slowly  stirring  in  the  flour ;  then 
add  the  asparagus  pulp.  Boil  slowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  stirring 
in  two  or  three  table-spoons  cream ;  color  the  soup  with  a  tea-spoon 
of  prepared  spinach,  made  by  pounding  the  spinach  well,  adding  a 
few  drops  of  water,  squeezing  the  juice  through  a  cloth  and  putting 
it  over  a  good  fire.  As  soon  as  it  looks  curdy,  take  it  off*,  and  strain 
the  liquor  through  a  sieve.  What  remains  on  the  sieve  is  to  be  used 
for  coloring  the  soup.  Just  before  serving  soup,  add  the  asparagus 
tops  which  have  been  separately  boiled. 

Beef  Soup. 
Take  the  cracked  joints  of  beef,  and  after  putting  the  meat  in  the 
pot  and  covering  it  well  with  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  when  it 
should  be  well  skimmed.  Set  the  pot  where  the  meat  will  simmer 
slowly  until  it  is  thoroughly  done,  keeping  it  closely  covered  all  the 
time.  The  next  day,  or  when  cold,  remove  the  fat  which  hardens 
on  the  top  of  the  doup.  Peel,  wash  and  slice  three  good-sized 
pytatoes  and  put  them  into  the  soup  ;  cut  up  half  a  head  of  white 
cabbage  in  shreds,  and  add  to  this  a  pint  of  Shaker  com  that  has 
been  soaked  over  night,  two  onions,  one  head  of  celery,  and  tomatoes 


SOUPS.  311 

if  desired.     When  these  are  done,  and  they  should  simmer  slowly, 
care  being  taken  that  they  do  not  bum,  strain  (or  not  as  preferred) 
the  soup  and  serve.     The  different  varieties  of  beef  soup  are  formed 
by  this  method  of  seasoning  and  the  different  vegetables   used  in 
preparing  it,  after  the  joints  have  been  well  boiled.     Besides  onions, 
celery,    cabbages,  tomatoes  and  potatoes,  many  use  a  few  carrots, 
turnips,  beets,  and  force-meat  balls  seasoned  with  spice;  rice  or  bar- 
ley will  give  the  soup  consistency,  and  are  to  be  preferred  to  flour 
for  the  purpose.     Parsley,  thyme  and  sage  are  the  favorite  herbs 
for  seasoning,  but  should  be  used  sparingly.     To  make  force-meat 
balls,  add  to  one  pound  chopped  beef  one  egg,  a  small  lump  butter, 
a  cup  or  less  of  bread-crumbs ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
moisten  with  the  water  from  stewed  meat ;  make  in  balls  and  fry 
brown,  or  make  egg- balls  by  boiling  eggs,  mashing  the  yolks  with 
a  silver  spoon,  and  mixing  with  one  raw  yolk  and  one  tea-spoon 
flour ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  make  into  balls,  drop  in  soup 
just  before  serving. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Sherman, 

Beef  Soup  with  Okra. 
Fry  one  pound  **  round"  steak  cut  in  bits,  two  table-spoons 
butter,  and  one  sliced  onion,  till  very  brown ;  add  to  three  or  four 
quarts  cold  water  in  soup-kettle,  and  boil  slowly  one  hour ;  then  add 
pint  sliced  okra,  and  simmer  three  hours  or  more ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  strain  and  serve. — Mrs.  T.  B.  J.,  Tuscumbia,  Ala. 

Beef  Soup. 
Take  bones  and  trimmings  from  a  sirloin  steak,  put  over  fire  after 
breakfast  in  three  quarts  water,  boil  steadily  until  about  an  hour 
before  dinner,  when  add  two  onions,  one  carrot,  three  common-sized 
potatoes,  all  sliced,  some  parsley  cut  fine,  a  red  pepper,  and  salt  to 
taste.  This  makes  a  delicious  soup,  sufficient  for  three  persons. 
All  soups  are  more  palatable  seasoned  with  onions  and  red  pepper, 
using  the  seeds  of  the  latter  with  care,  as  they  are  very  strong. 

Bean  Soup. 

Boil  a  small  soup-bone  in  about  two  quarts  water  until  the  meat 

can  be  separated  from  the  bone,  remove  bone,  add  a  coffee-cup  white 

beans  soaked  for  two  hours,  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  add  three 

potatoes,  half  a  turnip  and  a  parsnip,  all  sliced  fine,  boil  half  an 


312 


SOUP& 


hour  longer,  and  jus^  before  serving  sprinkle  in  a  few  diy  bread* 
crumbs;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  raw  onions 
sliced  very  fine  for  those  who  like  them. — Mrs.  A.  B,  Morey. 

Turtle  Bean  Soup. 
Soak  one  pint  black  beans  over  night,  then  put  them  into  three 
quarts  water  with  beef  bones  or  a  smalFpiece  of  lean  saltpork,  boil 
three  or  four  hours,  strain,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and 
lemon  juice.  Put  in  a  few  slices  of  lemon,  and  if  wLshed  add  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Serve  with  toasted  bread  cut  into  dice  and 
placed  in  the  tureen. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Qark, 

Saturday  Bean  Soup. 
Baked  beans  and  brown  bread  form  a  Sunday  break&st  for  so 
many  that  the  following  will  be  a  useful  and  economical  soup  for 
Saturday  dinner.  Put  on  the  pot  with  more  beans  t!i.;n  enough  for 
Sunday's  breakfast,  with  water,  and  slice  of  salt  pork ;  parboil  till 
beans  are  ready  to  be  put  in  oven.  Take  out'  pork  and  part  of 
beans,  leaving  enough  for  a  bean  soup ;  place  the  pot  on  back  of 
stove  and  keep  hot.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  dinner  heat 
soup,  add  more  water  and  vegetables  as  in  "  Bean  Soup." 

Meatless  Bean  Soup. 
Parboil  one  pint  beans,  drain  off  the  water,  add  firesh,  let  boil 
until  perfectly  tender,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  or  more  if  preferred ;  when  done  skim 
out  half  the  boans,  leaving  the  broth  with  the  remaining  h^lf  in 
the  kettle,  now  add  a  tea-cup  sweet  cream  or  good  milk,  a  dozen  or 
more  crackers  broken  up;  let  it  boil  up,  and  serve. 

Carrot  Soup. 

Put  in  soup-kettle  a  knuckle  of  veal,  three  or  four  quarts  cold 
water,  a  quart  finely-sliced  carrots,  one  head  celery ;  boil  two  and  a 
half  hours,  add  a  handful  rice,  and  boil  an  hour  longer;  season 
with  pepper  (or  a  bit  of  red  pepper  pod)  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Celery  Cream  Soup. 

Boil  a  small  cup  rice  in  three  pints  milk,  until  it  will  pass  through 
a  sieve.  Grate  the  white  |jart  of  two  heads  of  celery  (three  if 
small)  on  n  brend-gi-ater ;  add  this  to  the  rice  milk  after  it  has  been 


S0UF8.  I  313 

.;  put  to  it  a  quart  of  strong  white  stock;  let  boil  until  cel- 
ery is  perfectly  tender;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  serve.  If 
cream  is  obtainable,  substitute  one  pint  for  the  same  quantity  of 
milk. 

Chicken  Soup. 

In  boiling  chickens  for  salads,  etc.,  the  broth  (water  in  which 
they  are  boiled)  may  be  used  for  soup.  When  the  chickens  are  to 
be  served  whole,  stuff  and  tie  in  a  cloth.  To  the  broth  add  a  dozen 
tomatoes  (or  a  quart  can),  and  one  thinly-sliced  onion ;  boil  twenty 
minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
serve. -< 

Clam  Soup. 
Wash  clams,  and  place  in  just  sufficient  water  for  the  soup,  let 
boil,  and  as  soon  as  they  clear  from  shells,  take  out  and  place  clams 
in  a  jar  for  pickling ;  throw  into  the  broth  a  pint  each  of  sweet 
milk  and  rolled  crackers,  add  a  little  salt,  boil  five  Minutes,  and 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  one  ounce  butter  beaten  with 
two  eggs.     Serve,  and  let  each  person  season  to  taste. 

Green  Corn  Soup. 

One  large  fowl,  or  four  pounds  veal  (the  knuckle  or  neck  will  do), 
put  over  fire  in  one  gallon  cold  water  without  salt,  cover  tightly 
and  simmer  slowly  till  meat  slips  from  the  bones,  not  allowing  it  to 
boil  to  rags,  as  the  meat  will  make  a  nice  dish  for  breakfast  or 
Innch,  or  even  for  dinner.  Set  aside  with  the  meat  a  cup  of  the 
liquor  ;  strain  the  soup  to  remove  all  bones  and  rags  of  meat ;  grate 
one  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  scraping  cobs  to  remove  the  heart  of 
the  kernel,  add  com  to  soup,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  parsley, 
and  simmer  slowly  half  an  hour.  Just  before  serving  add  a  table- 
spoon flour  beaten  very  thoroughly  with  a  table-spoon  butter.  Serve 
hot.  To  serve  chicken  or  veal,  put  broth  (which  was  reserved)  in 
a  clean  sauce-pan,  beat  one  egg,  a  table-spoon  butter  and  a  tea- 
spoon flour  together  very  thoroughly,  and  add  to  the  broth  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Arrange  meat  on  dish, 
pour  over  dressing,  boiling  hot,  and  serve  at  once. 

Gumbo. 

Slice  a  large  onion  and  put  it  with  a  slice  of  bacon  or  &t  ham 


814 


SOUPS. 


into  a  skillet  and  brown  it ;  skiu  and  cut  up  two  quarts  tomatoes, 
cut  thin  one  quart  okra,  put  all  together  with  a  little  parsley  into  a 
stew-kettle,  adding  about  three  quarts  water,  and  cook  slowly  two 
or  three  hours,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  E.  A,   Wi 

Mock  Turtle  or  Calf's-head  Soup. 
Lay  one  large  calfs  head  well  cleaned  and  washed,  and  four  pig^s 
feet,  in  bottom  of  a  large  pot,  and  cover  with  a  gallon  of  water ; 
boil  three  hours,  or  until  flesh  will  slip  from  bones ;  take  out  head, 
leaving  the  feet  to  be  boiled  steadily  while  the  meat  is  cut  from  the 
head ;  select  with  care  enough  of  the  £eitty  portions  in  the  top  of  the 
head  and  the  cheeks  to  fill  a  tea-cup,  and  set  aside  to  cool ;  remove 
brains  to  a  saucer,  and  also  set  aside ;  chop  the  rest  of  the  meat 
with  the  tongue  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  powdered  mar- 
joram and  thyme,  a  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  of  mace,  half  as  much 
allspice  and  a  grated  nutmeg.     When  the  flesh  falls  from  the  bones 
of  the   feet,  take  out  bones,  leaving  the  gelatinous  meat ;  boil  all 
together  slowly,  without  removing  the  cover,  for  two  hours  more ; 
take  the  soup  from  the  fire  and  set  it  away  until  the  next  day.    An 
hour  before  dinner  set  the  stock  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils 
strain  carefully  and  drop  in  the  meat  reserved,  which  should  have 
been  cut,  when  cold,  into  small  squares.     Have  these  all  ready  as 
well  as  the  force-meat  balls,  to  prepare  which  rub  the  yolks  of  five 
hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  in  a  wedgewood  mortar,  or  in  a  bowl 
with  the  back   of  a  silver  spoon,  adding  gradually  the  brains  to 
moisten  them,  also  a  little  butter  and  salt.     Mix  with  these,  two 
eggs  beaten  very  light,  flour  the  hands  and  make  this  paste  into 
balls  about  the   size  of  a  pigeon's  egg :  throw  them  into  the  soup 
five  minutes  before  taking  it  from  the  fire ;  stir  in   a  large  table- 
s|X)on  browned  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  finish 
•  he  seasoning  by  the  addition  of  a  glass  and  a  half  of  sherry  or 
Aiaderia  wine,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.     It  should  not  boil  more 
than  half  an  hour  on  the  second  day.     Serve  with  sliced  lemons. 

Mutton  Soup. 
Boil  a  nice  leg  of  mutton,  and  take  the  water  for  the  soup,  add 

two  onions  chopped  fine,  potato,  half  a  cup  of  barley,  and  two  large 

tomatoes ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  one  hour,  stir  often  (as 

Nurlev  is  apt  to  burn),  and,  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  one 


SOUPS.  3W 

taUe-Bpoon  flour  wet  with  cold  water. — Mrs.  E.  R.  Fay,  New  York 

Noodle  Soup. 
Add  noodles  to  beef  or  any  other  soup  after  straining ;  they  will 
cock  in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  are  prepared  in  the  follow- 
ing manner :  To  one  egg  add  as  much  sifted  flour  as  it  will  absorb, 
with  a  little  salt ;  roll  out  as  thin  as  a  wafer^  dredge  very  lightly 
with  flour,  mil  over  and  over  into  a  large  roll,  slice  from  the  ends, 
•hake  out  the  strips  loosely  and  drop  into  the  soup. 

Okra  Soup. 
Take  a  nice  joint  of  beef  flUed  with  marrow,  one  gallon  water, 
one  onion  cut  fine,  two  sprigs  parsley,  half  a  peck  of  okra,  one 
quart  tomatoes;  boil  the  meat  six  hours,  add  vegetables  and  boil 
two  hours  more. — Mrs.  E.  L.  F. 

Oyster  Soup  with  Milk. 
Pour  one  quart  cold  water  over  one  quart  oysters  if  solid ;  if  not 
solid,  use  one  pint  of  water,  drain  through  a  colander  into  the  soup- 
kettle,  and  when  it  boils  skim ;  add  pepper,  then  the  oysters ;  season 
with  butter  and  salt,  then  add  one  quart  rich  new  milk  brought  to 
boiling  point  in  a  tin  pail  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  let  boil  up 
and  serve  at  once.  Or,  instead  of  adding  the  milk,  place  it,  boiling 
hot,  in  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  it  and  then  serve. 

Plain  Oyster  Soup. 

Pour  a  quart  oysters  in  colander,  rinse  by  pouring  over  them 

pint  cold  water,  put  this  in  porcelain   kettle,  add  a  pint  boiling 

vrater,  let  boil,  skim  thoroughly,  season  with  pepper  and  piece  of 

butter  size  of  large  egg;  then  add  oysters,  having  removed  all  shells 

let  boil  up  once,  season  with  salt  and  serve. — Mrs.  Lizzie  C.  Rob- 

inion. 

Pot  au  Feu. 

Take  a  good-sized  beef-bone  with  plenty  of  meat  on  it,  extract 
the  marrow  and  place  in  a  pot  on  the  back  of  the  range,  covering 
the  beef  with  three  or  more  quarts  of  cold  water;  cover  tightly, 
and  allow  to  simmer  slowly  all  day  long.  The  next  day,  before  heat- 
ing, remove  the  cake  of  grease  from  the  top,  and  add  a  large  onion 
(previously  stuck  full  of  whole  cloves,  and  then  roasted   in  the 


316 


SOUPS. 


oven  till  of  a  rich-brown  color),  adding  tomatoes  or  anj  other 
vegetables  which  one  may  fancy.  A  leek  or  a  section  of  garlic 
adds  much  to  the  flavor.  Rice  mav  be  added,  or  vermicelli  for  a 
change.  Just  before  serving,  burn  a  little  brown  sugar  and  stir 
through  it.  This  gives  a  peculiar  flavor  and  rich  color  to  the  soup. — 
Mrs.  Col.  (Jifford  ThompBon,  New  York  OUy. 

Green  Pea  Soup. 

Boil  three  pints  shelled  pease  in  three  quarts  of  water ;  when  quite 
soft,  mash  through  a  colander,  adding  a  little  water  to  free  the  pulp 
from  the  skins ;  return  pulp  to  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  add 
a  head  of  lettuce  chopped,  and  half  a  pint  young  pease ;  boil  half 
an  hour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken  with  two  table- 
spoons butter  rubbed  into  a  little  flour.  Serve  with  bits  of  toasted 
bread.  The  soup,  when  done,  should  be  as  thick  as  cream.  Some 
omit  the  lettuce. 

Potato  Soup. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  add  six  large  potatoes  chopped  fine,  one 
tea-cup  rice,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  table-spoon  flour. 
Work  butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  one  tea-cup  sweet  cream 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire.     Boil  one  hour. — ARss  Lida  Omby. 

Swiss  Soup. 

Five  gallons  water,  six  potatoes  and  three  turnips  sliced ;  boil  five 
hours  until  perfectly  dissolved  and  the  consistency  of  pea  soup,  fill* 
ing  up  as  it  boils  away ;  add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  serve.  A  small  piece  salt  pork,  a  bone  or  bit  of 
veal  or  lamb,  and  an  onion,  may  be  added  to  vary  this  soup. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Skim  and  strain  one  gallon  of  stock  made  from  nice  fresh  beef; 
take  three  quarts  tomatoes,  remove  skin  and  cut  out  hard  center, 
put  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  to  the  stock ;  make  a  paste  of 
butter  and  flour,  and,  when  the  stock  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  half  a 
tearcup,  taking  care  not  to  have  it  lumpy;  boU  twenty  minutes, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Two  quarts  canned 
tomatoes  will  answer. — Mrs.  CoL  Reid,  Delaware.  * 


SOUPS.  317 

Meatless  Tomato  Soup. 

One  quart  tomatoes,  one  of  water;  stew  till  soft;  add  tea-spoon 
soda,  allow  to  effervesce,  and  add  quart  of  boiling  milk,  salt,  butter, 
and  pepper  to  taste,  with  a  little  rolled  cracker ;  boil  a  few  minutes 
and  serve. — Mrs,  D.  C,  Corikeyj 

Turkey-Bone  Soup. 

After  a  roasted  turkey  has  been  served  a  portion  of  the  meat  still 
adheres  to  the  bones,  especiallj  about  the  neck;  *  drumsticks"  are 
left,  or  parts  of  the  wings,  and  pieces  rarely  called  for  at  table.    If 
there  is  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  or  more  left  cut  off  carefully  and 
reserve  for  force-meat  balls.     Break  the  bones  apart  and  with  stuffing 
still  adhering  to  them,  put  into  a  soup-kettle  with  two  quarts  water, 
a  table-spoon  salt,  a  pod  of  red  pepper  broken  into  pieces,  three  or 
fi)ur  blades  of  celery  cut  into  half  inch  pieces,  three  medium-sized 
potatoes,  and  two  onions  all  sliced.     If  the  dinner  hour  is  one  o'clock 
the  kettle  should  be  over  fire  before  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning;  or 
If  the  dinner  is  at  six  in  the  evening,  it  should  be  on  by  twelve 
o'clock.     Let  it  boil  slowly  but  constantly  until  about  half  an  hour 
before  dinner ;  lift  out  bones,  skim  6ff  fat,  strain  through  colander, 
return  to  soup-kettle.     There  will  now  be  but  little  more  than  a  quart 
of  the  soup.     If  more  than  this  is  desired,  add  a  pint  of  hot  milk 
or  milk  and  cream  together;  but  it  will  be  very  nice  without  this  ad- 
dition even  though  a  little  more  water  be  added.     Prepare  the  force- 
meat balls  by  chopping  tlie  scraps  of  turkey  very  fine ;  take  half  a 
teaspoon  cracker-crumbs,  smoothly  rolled,  a  small  salt-spoon  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  about  double  the  quantity  of  salt,  a  little  grated  lemon 
peel  and  half  a  teaspoon  powdered  summer-savory  or  thyme ;  mix 
these  together  and  add  a  raw  beaten  egg  to  bind  them.     Roll  mix- 
ture into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  and  drop  into  the  soup 
ten  minutes  before  serving.     Have  ready  in  tureen  a  large  table- 
spoon of  parsley,  cut  very  fine.     Pour  in  soup,  and  send  to  table 
hot.    If  force-meat  balls  ai'e  not  liked,  boil  two  eggs  for  half  an  hour, 
cut  in  slices,  put  them  in  tureen  with  the  parsley,  and  pour  the  soup 
over  them ;  or  slices  of  bread  (not  too  thick)  can  be  toasted,  but- 
^tt«d  on  both  sides,  cut  into  inch  squares,  and  substituted  for  the 
weed  eggs. — Mrs,  JR.  K  Hcaardy  Kxrhwoodj  Mo, 


318 


SOUPS. 


Vegetable  Soup. 
After  boiling  a  soup  bone  or  piece  of  beef  until  done,  add  to  the 
broth  boiling  water  to  make  the  amount  of  soup  wanted,  and  'when 
boiling  again  add  a  large  handful  of  cabbage  cut  fine  as  for  slaw, 
a  half  pint  of  tomatoes,  canned  or  fresh ;  peel  and  slice  and  add 
three  large  or  four  small  onions,  and  two  or  three  potatoes  (some 
use  a  half  tea-cup  of  dried  or  half  pint  of  green  com ;  if  dried  com 
is  used,  it  should  be  soaked).     Let  boil  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour ;  if  you  like  a  little  thickening,  stir  an  egg  or  yolk  with 
a  large  spoonful  of  milk  and  a  tea-spoon  of  flour,  put  in  five  or  ten 
minutes   before  taking  off;   this  makes  it  very  rich.     Serve  with 
crackers. — Mrs.  H.  C  Voslniry. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Three  onions,  three  carrots,  three  turnips,  one  small  cabbage,  one 
pint  tomatoes;  chop  all  the  vegetables  except  the  tomatoes  verj 
fine,  have  ready  in  a  porcelain  kettle  three  quarts  boiling  water, 
put  in  all  except  cabbage  and  tomatoes  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour, 
then  add  the  chopped  cabbage  and  tomatoes  (the  tomatoes  pre- 
viously stewed),  also  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Let  soup  boil  for 
twenty  minutes,  strain  through  sieve,  rubbing  all  the  vegetables 
through.  Take  two  table-spoons  of  best  butter  and  one  of  flour 
and  beat  to  a  cream.  Now  pepper  and  salt  soup  to  taste,  and 
add  a  tea-spoon  of  white  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  cream  if  you 
have  it,  and  last  stir  in  the  butter  and  flour ;  let  it  boil  up  and  it 
is  ready  for  the  table.  Serve  with  fried  bread-chips,  or  poached 
eggs  one  in  each  dish. — Mrs.  U.  H.  Herbert,  Benson, 


Veal  Soup. 

To  about  three  pounds  of  a  well-broken  joint  of  veal,  add  foxn 
quarts  water,  and  set  it  over  to  boil;  prepare  one-fourth  pound 
macaroni  by  boiling  it  in  a  dish  by  itself  with  enough  water  to  cover 
it ;  add  a  little  butter  when  the  macaroni  is  tender,  strain  the  soup 
and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  the  macaroni 
with  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled;  onions  or  celery  may  be 
added  for  flavoring. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Nixon,  New  CasUe, 


SOUPS.  319 

Bread-dice  for  Soups. 

Take  slices  of  stale  bread,  cut  in  small  squares,  throw  in  hot  lard 
and  fry  till  brown,  skim  out,  drain,  and  put  in  the  soup-tureen 
before  serving  the  soup.  Crackers  crisped  in  the  oven  are  nice  to 
serve  with  oyster  soup. — Mrs,  V.  G.  H. 

Caramel  for  Soups. 

For  caramel,  put  one  tea-cup  sugar  and  two  teanspoons  water  in 
a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire,  stir  constantly  till  it  is  a  dark  color,  then 
add  a  half  tea-cup  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  let  boil  for  a  few 
moments,  take  off,  and  when  cold  bottle. 

To  brown  flour,  put  one  pint  in  a  sauce-pan  on  the  stove,  and 
when  it  begins  to  color,  stir  constantly  till  it  is  a  dark  brown,  being 
careful  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  cold  put  away  in  a  tin  can 
or  jar  covered  closely,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place  where  it  is  always 
ready  for  soups  or  gravies.  As  it  requires  more  of  this  for  thick- 
ening than  of  unbrowned  flour,  it  may  be  well  sometimes  to  take 
half  of  each. 

A  few  cloves  may  be  stuck  in  the  meat  for  soup ;  or  it  may  first 
be  fried  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  little  butter,  turning  tOl  brown  on 
%11  sides ;  or  sliced  onions  may  be  iried  brown  and  added  to  soup. 

TuBTiiE  Soup. 

Boil  a  turtle  very  tender  in  five  quarts  of  water,  remove  bones, 
<mt  meat  into  small  pieces ;  season  with  a  table-spoon  each  of  mar- 
joram, sweet  basil,  thyme  and  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
one  nutmeg  beaten  fine,  a  dozen  cloves,  same  of  allspice.  Tie  these 
in  muslin^  remove  before  sending  soup  to  table.  Stir  a  large  table- 
spoon of  browned  flour  into  a  quarter  pound  of  fresh  butter,  add  to 
soup.  Should  be  three  quarts  of  soup.  Fifteen  minutes  before 
serving  add  the  green  fiit,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  wine,  a  sliced 
lemon,  seeds  removed,  also  force-meat  balls ;  simmer  five  minutes, 
take  out  lemon-peel,  and  serve*  This  is  for  a  small  turtle.  Add 
a  dioe  of  good  ham  if  turtle  is  not  fiit. 


L 


VEGETABLES. 


All  vegetables  are  better  cooked  in  soft  water,  provided  it  is 
dean  and  pure;  if  hard  water  is  used,  put  in  a  small  pinch  of  soda. 
The  water  should  be  freshly  drawn,  and  should  only  be  put  over 
fire  in  time  to  reach  the  boiling  point  before  the  hour  for  putting 
in  vegetables,  as  standing  and  long  boiling  frees  the  gases  and  ren- 
ders the  water  insipid.  The  fresher  all  vegetables  are,  the  mpre 
wholesome.  After  being  washed  thoroughly,  they  should  be  dropped 
in  cold  water  half  an  hour  before  using.  Peel  old  potatoes  and  let 
them  stand  in  cold  water  over  night,  or  for  several  iiours,  putting 
them  in  immediately  after  being  peeled,  as  exposure  to  the  air 
darkens  them.  Before  putting  on  to  boil,  take  out  and  wipe  each 
dry  with  a  towel.  New  potatoes  are  best  baked.  Full-grown,  fair, 
ripe  potatoes  may  be  either  boiled  or  baked.  Medium-sized  and 
smooth  potatoes  are  best ;  the  kind  varies  with  the  season.  Green 
corn  and  pease  should  be  prepared  and  cooked  at  once.  Put  all 
vegetables  into  plenty  of  salted  water,  boiling  hot  (excepting  egg 
plant  and  old  potatoes,  which  some  put  on  in  salted  cold  water),  and 
boil  rapidly,  without  cover,  skimming  carefully  until  ^oroughly 
done,  draining  well  those  that  require  it.  Onions  should  be  soaked 
in  warm  salt  water,  to  remove  the  rank  flavor  for  one  hour  before 
cooking.  Never  split  onions,  tuniips  and  carrots,  but  slice  them  in 
rings  cut  across  the  fiber,  as  they  thus  cook  tender  much  quicker. 
If  the  home  garden  fiimishes  the  supply  of  pease,  spinach,  green 
beans,  asparagus,  etc.,  pick  them  in  the  morning  early,  when  th« 
dew  is  on,  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  till  ready  for  use.  Some  put 
salt  in  the  water,  but  in  that  case  only  let  them  remain  ten  or  fif« 

(830) 


VEGETABLES,  321 

teen  minutes,  unless  doubts  are  entertained  as  to  their  freshness  (if 
from  the  market),  in  which  case  they  can  remain  longer,  afterward 
draining  them  in  a  colander.  Do  not  allow  vegetables  to  remain 
in  the  water  after  they  are  done,  but  drain  them  in  a  colander  and 
dress  as  directed  in  the  various  recipes.  In  preparing  greens,  let- 
tuce, etc.,  first  wash  them  leaf  by  leaf  in  warm  >vater,  rather  more 
than  tepid,  having  a  dish  of  cold  water  to  place  them  in  imme- 
diately. The  warm  water  more  certainly  cleans  the  leaf  and  does 
not  destroy  the  crispness  if  they  are  placed  at  once  in  cold  water. 
But  whether  washed  in  warm  or  cold  water,  take  them  leaf  by  leaf, 
breaking  the  heads  off,  not  cutting  them.  Horse-radish  tops  are 
considered  choice  for  greens.  Pease  should  not  be  shelled  until  just 
befoi-e  the  time  of  cooking. 

The  proportion  of  salt  in  cooking  vegetables  is  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  salt  to  every  gallon  of  water.  When  water  boils,  put  in 
your  vegetables,  and  press  them  down  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Take 
out  when  tender,  as  vegetables  are  spoilt  by  being  either  under  or 
overdone. 

Always  add  both  salt  and  a  little  soda  to  the  water  in  which 
greens  are  cooked,  as  soda  preserves  color ;  for  the  same  purpose 
French  cookery  books  recommend  a  small  pinch  of  carbonate  of 
ammonia.  A  little  sugar  added  to  turnips,  beets,  pease,  corn, 
squash  and  pumpkin  is  an  improvement,  especially  when  the  vege- 
tables are  poor  in  quality.  Sweet  potatoes  require  a  longer  time  to 
cook  than  the  common  variety.  In  gathering  asparagus,  never  cut 
it  off,  but  snap  or  break  it ;  in  this  way  you  do  not  s:et  the  white» 
woody  part,  which  no  boiling  can  make  tender.  Do  the  same  with 
rhubarb,  except  being  careful  that  it  does  not  split,  and  take  it  very 
close  to  the  ground.  Put  rice  on  to  cook  in  boiling  salted  water, 
having  first  soaked  for  about  an  hour  and  dried  off  the  surplus 
moisture  on  a  large  towel;  or  steam,  or  cook  in  custard-kettle. 

A  piece  of  red  pepper  the  size  of  finger-nail,  dropped  into  meat 
of  vegetables  when  first  beginning  to  cook,  will  aid  greatly  in  killing 
the  unpleasant  odor.  Remember  this  for  boiled  cabbage,  green 
beans,  onions,  mutton  and  chicken.  All  vegetables  should  be  thor- 
oughly cooked,  and   require   a   longer  time  late   in   their  season. 

Potatoes,  when  old,  are    improved  by  removing  the  skin  before 
21 


322 


VEGETABLES, 


baking,  and  either  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes,  if  frozen,  must  be  puf 
in  to  bake  without  thawing.  Cabbage,  potatoes,  carrots,  turnips, 
parsnips,  onions  and  beets  are  injured  by  being  boiled  with  fresh 
meat,  and  they  also  injure  the  flavor  of  the  meat.  When  vege- 
tables are  to  be  served  with  salt  meat,  the  meat  should  be  cooked 
first  and  then  removed,  and  tlie  vegetables  cooked  in  the  liquor. 

Small-sized  white  turnips  contain  more  nutrition  than  large  ones, 
hut  in  ruta-bagas  the  largest  are  best.  Potatoes  vary  greatly  in 
quality ;  varieties  which  are  excellent  early  in  the  season  lose  their 
good  qualities,  and  others,  which  are  worthless  in  the  fall,  are 
excellent  late  in  the  spring.  Those  raised  on  gravelly  or  sandy  soil, 
not  over  rich,  are  best. 

Old  potatoes,  may  be  greatly  improved  by  being  soaked  in  cold 
water  several  hours  after  peeling,  or  all  night,  being  particular  to 
change  the  water  once  or  twice.  Peel  very  thinly,  as  the  best  part 
of  the  potato  is  nearest  the  skin.  Cut  large  potatoes,  if  to  be  steamed, 
or  boiled,  in  four,  and  small  ones  in  two  pieces,  and  remove  the  core 
if  defective.  If  to  be  boiled  (steaming  is  much  preferable)  put 
them  on  in  clear  fresh  boiling  water.  Keep  closely  covered  and  at 
a  steady  boil  for  at  least  twenty  minutes,  five  or  ten  minutes  more 
may  be  requisite,  according  to  the  quality  of  the  potato.  Watch 
carefully,  and  the  very  instant  they  present  a  mealy  and  broken 
surface  remove  them  from  the  stove,  raise  the  cover  just  enough  to 
admit  the  draining  off"  of  the  water.  This  may  be  accomplished 
successfully  and  quickly,  after  a  little  practice,  and  is  fiur  better 
than  turning  them  into  a  colander,  thus  suddenly  chilling  them  and 
arresting  the  further  development  of  the  starch,  which,  after  all,  is 
the  main  point  to  be  accomplished.  Drain  the  water  off  thoroughly 
and  quickly,  sprinkle  in  sufficient  salt  for  seasoning,  cover  the  vesel 
closely,  give  it  a  shake  and  set  back  on  the  stove,  being  careful  not 
to  have  it  too  hot.  In  a  minute  or  so  give  it  another  shake  to  stir 
up  the  potatoes,  throw  in  a  little  hot  cream  or  rich  milk  with  a 
lump  of  butter  and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper,  cover  immediately  and 
leave  on  the  stove  for  another  minute.  This  last  process  adds 
greatly  to  the  good  cooking  of  potatoes.  They  are  ready  now  to 
be  dished  whole  or  mashed.  Some  skill  is  required  to  mash  them 
properly,  simple  as  the  operation  may  appear.      The  old  fashioned 


VEGETABLES. 

wood^i  masher  possesses  advantages  over  the  new  perforated  iron 
plate  with  handle  so  nearly  representing  the  old  time  churn  dasher. 
Mashed  ^potatoes  should  be  dipped  out  lightly  into  a  hot  covered 
dish  and  literally  coaxed  into  a  delicate  mealy  heap,  instead  of  being 
stirred  and  patted  and  packed  and  cheesed  into  a  shapely  mass. 

If  potatoes  are  very  watery  and  they  must  be  used  for  food,  a 
small  lump  of  lime  added  to  the  water  while  boiling  will  improv^ 
them.  More  so  than  any  other  vegetable  does  this  one  diifer  in 
quality,  according  to  variety  and  manner  of  culture.  However  the 
main  crop  may  be  raised,  every  farmer^s  wife  should  secure  for  late 
ipring  use  a  supply  of  a  choice  variety  cultivated  entirely  in  rotten 
wood  soil,  or  in  soil  where  wood  ashes  and  gypsum  are  used  as  fer- 
tilizers. 

The  great  point  in  cooking  potatoes  is,  to  take  them  up  as  soon 
as  they  are  done.  Of  course  it  is  important  to  begin  to  cook  them 
at  the  proper  time.  When  boiled,  baked,  fried  or  steamed,  they 
are  rendered  watery  by  continuing  to  cook  them  after  they  reach  the 
proper  point.  For  this  reason,  potatoes,  to  bake  or  boil,  should 
he  selected  so  as  to  have  them  nearly  the  same  size.  Begin  with 
the  largest  first,  and  continue  to  select  ^he  largest  till  all  are  gone. 
Be  careful  that  the  water  does  not  stop  boiling,  as  thus  the  pota- 
toes will  be  watery.  Never  boil  them  very  hard,  as  it  breaks  them. 
Medium-sized  potatoes,  when  young,  will  cook  in  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes;  when  old,  it  requires  double  the  time.  When 
peeled,  they  boil  fifteen  minutes  quicker.  In  baking  old  potatoes 
with  meat,  now,  it  is  better  also  to  halve  them.  L^»ve  them  in 
the  water  until  the  meat  is  within  half  an  hour  of  being  done.  See 
that  the  pan  contains  plenty  of  drippings,  and  with  proper  heat 
the  potatoes  will  be  brown  and  crisp  without  and  white  and  mealy 
within.  They  may  be  fried  in  the  meat  gravy,  or  warmed  up  in 
butter  for  breakfast.  The  secret  of  having  potatoes  mealy  and 
palatable  is  to  cook  them  rapidly.  Steam  until  the  skin  cracks, 
and  a  fork  easily  penetrates  the  center.  If  not  to  be  served  at 
once,  continue  steaming,  as  they  become  solid  sooner  than  when 
boiled. 

New  potatoes  should  always  be  boiled  in  two  waters,  and  old 
ones  are  better  for  it.      Put  on  two  kettles  of  water,  set  potatoes 


324 


VEGETABLES. 


in  one,  when  hot,  in  a  wire  basket,  and  when  abont  half  done 
transfer  to  the  other. 


Asparagus. 

Wash  clean ;  cat  off  the  white  part  except  a  mere  end,  pat 
into  slightly  salted  boiling  water,  boil  five  minntes,  ponr  off  water, 
add  more  boiling  hot;  boil  ten  to  fifteen  minates,  then  pnt  in  a 
hmp  of  bntter,  salt  and  pepper  (some  stir  in  a  thickening  made 
of  one  tea-spoon  flour  mixed  np  with  cold  water);  cat  and  toast 
two  or  three  thin  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  batter  and  pat  in  a 
dish,  and  over  them  tarn  asparagus  and  gravy.  The  water  must 
be  boiled  down  until  just  enough  for  the  gravy,  which  is  made  as 
above.  Or,  cut  the  asparagus,  when  boiled,  into  little  bits, 
leaving  out  white  end,  make  gravy  as  above,  put  the  cut  aspar- 
agus into  a  hot  dish  and  turn  the  gravy  over  it  and  serve. 

A  simple  manner  of  boiling  asparagus  is  to  tie  in  a  bundle,  or 
Brst  wrap  in  cotton  cloth  and  then  tie,  and  set  upright  in  a  sauce- 
pan containing  boiling  water  enough  to  reach  nearly  to  the  tender 
tips ;  boil  rapidly  till  tender ;  lay  a  napkin  on  a  hot  platter,  take 
out  asparagus,  drain  for  a  moment,  place  on  napkin,  unwrap,  and 
ftld  over  the  asparagus  the  corners  of  the  napkin,  and  serve  in  this 
Ihcm,  with  white  sauce  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Or,  boiled  asparagus  may  be  made  cold  in  ice-box,  and  served 
with  a  sauce  made  of  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Ambushed  Asparagus. 
Cut  off  the  tender  tops  of  fifty  heads  of  asparagus ;  boil  and 
drain  them.  Have  ready  as  many  stale  biscuits  or  rolls  as  there 
are  persons  to  be  served,  from  which  you  have  cut  a  neat  top  slice 
and  scooped  out  the  inside.  Set  them  in  the  oven  to  crisp,  laying 
the  tops  beside  them,  that  all  may  dry  together.  Meanwhile  put 
into  a  sauce-pan  a  sugarless  custard  made  as  follows:  A  pint  or  less 
of  milk,  and  four  well-whipped  eggs ;  boil  the  milk  first,  then  beat 
in  the  eggs;  set  over  the  fire  and  stir  till  it  thickens,  when  add  a 
table-spoon  of  butter,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Into  this 
custard  put  the  asparagus,  minced  fine.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  but 
remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  asparagus  is  fairly  in.     Fill  the 


VEGETABLES.  325 

rolls  with  the  mixture,  put  on  the  tops,  fitting  them  carefully ;  set 

in  the  oven  three  miiiytes,  &^r  which  arrange  on  a  dish.     To  be 

eaten  hot. 

Eggs  and  Asparagus. 

Cut  tender  asparagus  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long,  and  boil 
twenty  minutes,  then  drain  till  dry,  and  put  into  a  sauce-pan  con- 
taining a  cup  of  rich  drawn  butter ;  heat  together  to  a  boil,  season 
livdth  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  dish.  Break  half  a 
dozen  ?^gs  over  the  surface,  put  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each,  sprinkle 
with  salt  :;nd  pepper,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

Fried  Asparagus. 
Blanch  the  asparagus  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  then  drain  it;  dip 
each  piece  in  batter  and  fry  it  in  hot  fat.     When  done,  sprinkle, 
with  salt  and  serve  hot.     This  is  nice  and  easy  to  prepare. 

Boiled  Dinner. 
Put  meat  on,  after  washing  well,  in  enough  boiling  water  to  just 
cover  the  meat;  as  soo.'x  as  it  boils,  set  kettle  on  the  stove  where  it 
will  simmer  or  boil  very  slowly ;  boil  until  almost  tender,  put  in 
v^etables  in  the  following  order :  Cabbage  cut  in  quarters,  turnips 
of  medium  size  cut  in  halves,  and  jx)tatoes  whole,  or  if  large  cut  m 
two ;  peel  potatoes  and  turnips,  and  allow  to  lie  in  cold  water  for 
half  an  hour  before  using.  The  meat  should  be  well  skimmed 
before  adding  vegetables;  l)oil  together  until  thoroughly  done 
(adding  a  little  salt  before  taking  out  of  kettle),  when  there  should 
be  left  only  just  enough  water  to  prevent  burning ;  take  up  vege- 
tables in  separate  dishes,  and  lastly  the  meat ;  if  there  is  any  juice 
in  kettle,  pour  it  over  cabbage.  Boil  cabbage  an  hour,  white  tur- 
nips and  potatoes  half  an  hour,  ruta-baga.s  an  hour  and  a  half  to 
two  ^ours.  A  soup  plate  or  saucer  turned  upside  down,  or  a  few 
iron  table-spoons  are  u.««eful  to  place  in  bottom  of  kettle  to  keep 
meat  fi'om  burning.  Parsnips  may  be  substituted  in  place  of  cab- 
bage and  tuniips,  cooking  them  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

BEFfS. 

Remove  leaves,  wash  clean,  being  careftil  not  to  break  off  the 
little  fibers  and  rootlets,  a*?  the  juices  would  thereby  escape  and  they 
would  lose  their  color ;  boil  in  plenty  of  water,  if  young,  two  hours, 


326  VEGETABLES. 

if  old,  four  or  five  hours,  trying  with  a  fork  to  see  when  tender ; 
take  out,  drop  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  slip  off  the  skin  with  the 
hands;  slice  those  needed  for  immediate  use,  place  in  a  dish,  add 
salt,  pepper,  hutter,  and  if  not  very  sweet  a  tea-spoon  sugar,   set 
over  boiling  water  to  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve  hot  with  or  with- 
out vinegar;  put  those  which  remain  into  a  stone  jar  whole,  cover 
with  vinegar,  keep  in  a  cool  place,  take  out  as  wanted,  slice  and 
serve.     A  few  pieces  of  horse-radish  put  into  the  jar  will  prevent 
a  white  scum  on  the  vinegar.   .Or,  roast  in  hot  ashes,  or  bake  in 
oven,  (turning  often  in  the  pan  with  a  knife,  as  a  fork  causes  the 
juice  to  flow),  and  when  tender,  peel,  slice,  and  dress  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter  and  vinegar.  Or,  after  beets  are  boiled  and  skinned, 
mash  together  with  boiled  potatoes,  and  season  to  the  taste  with 
salt ;  add  a  large  lump  of  butter  (do  not  use  any  milk) ;  place  in 
a  dish,   make  a  hole  in  center  in  which  put  ni  a  generous  lump 
of  butter;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  serve  at  once.     This  is  a  New 
England  dish,  and  very  delicious  for  harvest  time,  when  beets  are 
young  and  sweet. 

Beet  Greens. 

*  Wash  young  beets  very  clean,  cut  off  tips  of  leaves,  looking  over 
carefully  to  see  that  no  bugs  or  worms  remain,  but  do  not  separate 
roots  from  leaves ;  fill  dinner-pot  half  full  of  salted  boiling  water, 
add  beets,  boil  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  take  out 
and  drain  in  colander,  pressing  down  with  a  large  spoon,  so  as  to 
get  out  all  the  water.  Dish  and  dress  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt 
if  needed.     Serve  hot  with  vinegar. 

Butter  Beans. 

With  a  knife  cut  off  the  ends  of  pods  and  strings  from  both  sides, 
being  very  careful  to  remove  every  shred  ;  out  every  bean  length- 
wise, in  two  or  thi-ee  strips,  and  leave  them  for  half  an  hour  in 
cold  water.  Much  more  than  cover  them  with  boiling  water;  boil 
till  perfectly  tender.  It  is  well  to  allow  three  hours  for  boiling. 
Drain  well,  return  to  kettle,  and  add  a  dressing  of  half  a  gill  cream, 
one  and  a  half  ounces  butter,  one  even  tea-spoon  salt,  and  half  a 
tea-spoon  pepper.     This  is  sufficient  for  a  quart  of  cooked  beans. 


VEGETABLES.  327 

Dry  Lima  Beans. 
Wash  one  quart  of  dry  lima  beans  in  two  warm  waters,  soak 
three  hours,  drain,  and  put  on  to  cook  in  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover  them;  cover  pot  with  tin  lid,  addiug  more  hot  water  as  it 
boils  away,  boiling  nipicJly  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  when  there 
should  be  only  water  enough  to  come  up  to  top  of  the  beans— just 
sufficient  to  make  a  nice  dressing.  Five  minutes  before  taking  up, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  a  dressing  made  of  one  table- 
spoon each  of  flour  and  butter,  rubbed  together  until  smooth.  This 
is  a  delicious  dish. 

String  Beans. 

String,  snap  and  wash  two  quarts  beans,  boil  in  plenty  of  water 
about  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  and  put  on  again  in  about  two 
quarts  boiling  water;  boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  add  salt  and 
pepper  just  before  taking  up,  stirring  in  one  and  a  half  table-spoons 
butter  rubbed  into  two  table-spoons  flour  and  half  pint  sweet  cream. 
Or,  boil  a  piece  of  salted  pork  one  hour,  then  add  beans  and  boil 
an  hour  and  a  half.  For  shelled  beans  boil  half  an  hour  in  water 
enough  to  cover,  and  dress  as  above. 

Stp:wed  Carrots. 

Take  any  quantity  desired,  divide  the  carrots  lengthwise,  and  boil 
until  perfectly  tender,  which  will  require  from  one  to  two  hours. 
When  done,  have  ready  a  sauco-j)an  with  one  or  two  table-spoons 
butter,  and  small  cup  cream ;  slice  the  carrot,s  very  thin,  and  put  in 
the  sauce-pan  ;•  add  salt  and  peppei-,  and  let  stew  ten  or  fifteer 
minutes,  stirring  gently  once  or  twice,  and  serve  in  a  vegetable 
dish.  Some  add  more  milk  or  cream ;  when  done,  skim  out  car- 
rots, and  to  the  cream  add  a  little  flour  thickening,  or  the  beaten 
yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs.  When  it  boils,  pour  over  the  carrots  and 
serve.  Carrots  may  also  be  boiled  with  meat  like  turnips  or  pars* 
nips,  but  they  take  longer  to  cook  than  either.— ifr«.  C  T,  C. 

Boiled  Corn. 

Put  the  well-cleaned  ears  in  salted  boiling  water,  boil  an  hour,  or 
boil  in  the  husk  for  the  same  time,  remove  husks  and  serve  imme- 
diately.    Com  thoroughly  cooked  is  a  wholesome  dish. 


828  VEGETABLES, 

Stowed  Corn. 
Cut  with  a  sharp  knife  through  the  center  of  every  row  of 
grains,  and  cut  off  the  outer  edge ;  then  with  the  back  of  the  blade 
push  out  the  yellow  eye,  with  the  rich,  creamy  center  of  the  grain, 
leaving  the  hull  on  the  cob.  To  one  quart  of  this  add  half  a  pint 
rich  milk,  and  stew  until  cooked  in  a  covered  tin  pail,  in  a  kettle 
one-third  full  of  boiling  water ;  then  add  salt,  white  pepper,  and  two 
or  three  ounces  butter ;  allow  two  hours  for  cooking;  it  seems  a  long 
time,  but  there  is  no  danger  of  burning,  and  it  requires  no  more  at- 
tention than  to  stir  it  occasionally  and  to  keep  good  the  supply  of 
water.  If  drier  than  Jiked,  add  more  milk  or  cream.  Or,  after 
cutting  com  from  the  cob,  boil  the  cobs  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and 
take  out  and  put  corn  in  same  water ;  when  tender,  add  a  dressing 
of  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  just  before  serving,  stir  in 
beaten  eggs,  allowing  three  eggs  to  a  dozen  ears  of  corn. 

Bina's  Stewed  Corn. 
Shave  corn  off  the  ear,  being  careful  not  to  cut  into  the  cob;  to 
three  pints  corn  add  three  table-spoons  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
just  enough  water  to  cover  j  place  in  a  skillet,  cover  and  cook 
Father  slowly  with  not  too  hot  a  fire,  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  stir  with  a  spoon  often,  and  if  necessary  add  more 
water,  for  the  corn  must  not  brown;  if  desired,  a  few  moments 
before  it  is  done,  add  half  cup  sweet  cream  thickened  with  tea- 
spoon flour;  boil  well  and  serve  with  roast  beef,  escaloped  toma- 
toes and  mashed  potatoes.  Some  stew  tomatoes,  and  just  before 
serving  mix  tiiem  with  the  corn. 

Dried  Corn. 
For  a  family  of  eii^ht,  wash  a  pint  of  corn  through  one  water, 
•\'aA  put  to  soak  over  night  in  clenn  cold  water  (if  impossible  to 
soak  so  long,  place  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  for  two  or  three 
hours) ;  when  softened,  cook  fiwo^  to  ten  minutes  in  water  in  which 
it  was  soaked,  adding  as  soon  as  boiling,  two  tablo-s|X)ons  butter, 
one  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Another  good  way  to 
finish  is  the  following:  Take  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  table-spoon 
milk,  pinch  of  salt,  thicken  with  flour  quite  stiff  so  as  to  take  out 
with  a  tea-spoon,  and  drop  in  little  dumplings  not  hirgor  than  au 


VEGETABLES.  .329 

acorn;  cover  tightly  and  cook  five  or  ten  minutes;  have  enough 
water  in  kettle  before  adding  dumplings,  as  cover  should  not  be  re- 
moved until  dumplings  are  done. 

Hominy. 

Soak  one  quart  of  ground  hominy  over  night,  put  over  the  fire 

in  a  tin  pail,  set  in  boiling  water  with  water  enough  to  cover,  boil 

gently  for  five  hours,  as  it  can  not  be  hurried.     After  the  grains 

begin  to  soften  on  no  account   stir  it.     The  water  put  in  at  fir.-t 

ought  to  be  enough  to  finish  it,  but  if  it  proves  too  little,  add  more 

careftilly,  as  too  much  makes  it  sloppy.      Salt  just  before  taking 

from  the  stove,  as  too  early  salting  makes    it  dark.     If  properly 

done,  the  grains  will  stand  out  snowy  and  well  done,  but  round  and 

separate. 

Preserved  Corn. 

Scald  corn  just  enough  to  set  the  milk,  cut  from  cob,  to  every 
four  pints  of  corn  add  one  pint  salt,  mix  thoroughly,  pack  in  jars, 
with  a  cloth  and  weight  over  corn ;  when  wanted  for  use  put  in  a 
stew-pan  or  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water;  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a 
boil  pour  ofi*  and  put  on  cold  again,  and  repeat  until  it  is  fresh 
enough  for  taste,  then  add  a  very  little  sugar,  sweet  cream,  or  but- 
ter, etc.,  to  suit  taste. — Mrs,  S,  M.  Guy. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. 
Draw  a  sharp  knife  through  each  row  of  corn  lengthwise,  thea 
scrape  out  the  pulp;  to  one  pint  of  the  corn  add  one  quart  of  milk, 
three  eggs,  a  little  suet,  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  few  lumps  of  butter ; 
stir  it  occasionally  until  thick,  and  bake  about  two  hours. 

Boiled  Cauliflower. 
To  each  half  gallon  water  allow  heaped  table-spoon  salt ;  choose 
dose  and  white  cauliflower,  trim  oflT  decayed  outside  leaves,  and  cut 
stock  off  flat  at  bottom  ;  open  flower  a  little  in  places  to  remove 
insects  which  generally  are  found  about  the  stalk,  and  let  cauli- 
flowers lie  with  heads  downward  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours 
previous  to  dressing  them,  which  will  effectually  draw  out  all  ver- 
min. Then  put  into  boiling  water,  adding  salt  in  above  propor- 
tion, and  boil  briskly  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  over  a  good  fire, 
keeping    the   sauce-pan    uncovered.     The  water   should   be  well 


330  VEGETABLES. 

skimmod.  When  cauliflowers  are  tender,  take  up,  drain,  and  if 
large  enough,  place  upright  in  dish ;  serve  with  plain  melted  bijtter, 
a  little  of  which  may  be  poured  over  the  flowers,  or  a  white  sauce 
may  be  used  made  as  follows : 

Put  butter  size  of  an  e^g  into  the  sauce-pan,  and  when  it  bubbles 
stir  in  a  scant  half  tea-cup  of  flour ;  stir  well  with  an  egg-whisk 
until  cooked ;  then  add  two  tea-cups  of  thin  cream,  some  pepper 
and  salt.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  until  perfectly  smooth.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  the  cauliflower  and  serve.  Many  let  the  cauliflower 
simmer  in  the  sauce  a  few  moments  before  serving.  Cauliflower  is 
delicious  served  as  a  garnish  around  spring  chicken^  or  with  fried 
sweet-breads,  when  the  white  sauce  should  be  poured  over  both. 
In  this  case  it  should  be  made  by  adding  the  cream,  flour,  and  sea- 
soning to  the  little  grease  (half  a  tea-spoon)  tliat  is  left  after  fiy- 
ing  the  chickens  or  sweet-breads. — Mn,  W.  P.  Andemm. 

ESCALOPED   ("AULIFLOWER. 

Boil  till  very  tender,  drain  well  and  cut  in  small  pieces; 
put  it  in  layers  with  fine  chopped  egg  and  this  dressing:  half 
pint  of  milk  thickened  over  boiling  water,  with  two  table-spoons 
of  flour  and  seasoned  with  two  tea-spoons  of  salt;  one  of  white 
pepper  and  two  ounces  of  butter;  put  grated  bread  over  the 
top,  dot  it  with  small  bits  of  butter,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  to 
beat  thoroughly  and  brown.  Serve  in  same  dish  in  which  it  was 
baked.  This  is  a  good  way  to  use  common  heads.  A  nicer  way  is 
to  boil  them,  then  place  them  whole  in  a  buttered  dish  with  stems 
down.  Make  a  sauce  with  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs  beaten  to  froth 
with  two  table-spoons  of  melted  butter  and  three  of  cream  or  milk, 
one  well-beaten  egg  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  this  over 
the  cauliflower,  cover  the  dish  tightly  and  bake  six  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven,  browning  them  nicely.    Serve  as  above. 

HEmELBERG  CaBBAGE. 

Select  two  small,  solid  heads  of  hard  red  cabbage ;  divide  them 
in  halves  from  crown  to  stem ;  lay  the  split  side  down,  and  cut 
downwards  in  thin  slices.  The  cabbage  will  then  be  in  narrow  strips 
or  shreds.  Put  into  a  sauoe-pan  a  table-spoon  of  clean  drippings, 
batter  or  any  nice  &t ;  when  fat  is  hot,  put  in  cabbage  a  tea-spoon 
of  adti  three  tablespoons  vin^^ar  (if  the  latter  is  very  strong,  use 


VEGETABLES.  331 

but  two),  and  one  onion ,  in  which  three  or  four  cloves  have  been 
stuck,  buried  in  the  middle ;  boil  two  hours  and  a  haff ;  if  it 
becomes  too  dry  and  is  in  danger  of  scorching,  add  a  very  little 
water.  This  is  very  nice, — Mrs.  L,  S.  WUlisixyn,  Heidelberg^  Germany. 

Cr£am£d  Cabbage. 
Slice  as  for  cold  slaw  and  stew  in  a  covered  sauce-pan  till  ten- 
der ;  drain  it,  return  to  sauce-pan,  add  a  gill  or  more  of  rich  cream, 
one  ounce  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  let  simmer  two  or 
three  minutes,  then  serve.  Milk  may  be  used  by  adding  a  little 
more  butter  ;  or  have^a  deep  spider  hot,  put  in  sliced  cabbage,  pour 
quickly  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  close  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  then  pour  off  water  and  add  half  pint  of  rich  milk.  When 
the  milk  boils,  stir  in  a  tea-spoon  of  flour  moistened  with  a  little 
milk,  season,  cook  a  moment,  serve. 

Delicate  Cabbage. 
Remove  all   defective    leaves,   quarter  and   cut   as  for  coarse 

slaw,  cover  well  with  cold  water,   and  let  remain   several    hours 

before  cooking,  then  drain  and  put  into  pot  with  enough  boiling 

water  to  cover ;  boil  until  thoroughly  cooked  (which  will  generally 

require  about  forty-five  minutes),  add  salt  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 

before  removing  from  fire,  and  when  done,  take  up  into  a  colander, 

press  out  the  water  well,  and  season  with  butter  and  j>epper.     This 

is  a  good  dish  to  serve  with  corned  meats,  but  should  not  be  cooked 

with  'them;  if  preferred,    however,  it  may  be  seasoned  by  adding 

some  of  the  liquor  and  fat  from  the  boiling  meat  to  the  cabbage 

while  cooking.    Or,  cut  the  cabbage  in  two,  remove  the  hard  stock, 

let  stand  in  cold  water  two  hours,  tie  in  thin  netting  or  piece  of 

muslin,  and  boil  in  salted  water  for  a  longer  time  than  when  it  is 

cut  finely.     Drain,  remove,  and  serve  in  a  dish  with  drawn  butter 

or  a  cream  dres«siug  poured  over  it. — Mrs.  E,  T.  Carson. 

Fried  Cabbage. 
Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine,  on  a  slaw  cutter,  if  possible ;  salt  and 
pepper,  stir  well,  and  let  stand  fiwe  minutes.  Have  an  iron  kettle 
smoking  hot,  drop  one  table-spoon  lard  into  it,  then  the  cabbage, 
stirring  briskly  until  quite  tender;  send  to  table  immediately. 
One  half  cup  sweet  cream,  and  three  table-spoons  vinegar— the 
vinegar  added  after  the  cream  has  been  well  stirred,  and  after  taken 


332  VEGETABLES, 

from  the  stove,  is  an  agreeable  change.  When  properly  done  an 
invalid  can  eat  it  without  injury,  and  there  is  no  offensive  odor 
from  cooking. — Mrs.  J,  T,  Liggett,  Detroit,  Mkh. 

Southern  Cabbage. 
Chop  or  slice  one  medium-sized  cabbage  fine,  put  it  in  a  stew' 
pan  with  boiling  water  to  well  cover  it,  and  boil  fifleen  minutes ; 
drain  off  all  water,  and  add  a  dressing  made  as  follows:  Half  tea- 
cup wine-vinegar,  two-thirds  as  much  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  half  tea- 
spoon mustard,  and  two  tea-spoons  salad  oil;  when  this  is  boiling 
hot,  add  one  tea-cup  cream,  and  one  egg  stirred  together ;  mix 
thoroughly  and  immediately  with  the  cabbage,  and  cook  a  moment. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  P.  T.  Morey,  Charleston,  S.  G. 

Stuffed  Cabbage. 
Take  a  large,  fresh  cabbage  anl  cut  out  heart ;  fill  vacancy  with 
stuffing  made  of  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  chopped  very  fine  and 
highly  seasoned  and  rolled  into  balls  with  yolk  of  egg.  Then  tie 
cabbage  firmly  together  (some  tie  a  cloth  around  it),  and  boil  in  a 
covered  kettle  two  hours.  This  is  a  delicious  dish  and  is  useM  in 
using  up  cold  meats. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Croffut,  New  York  Oity, 

Dandelions. 
They  are  fit  for  use  until  they  blossom.  Cut  off  the  leaves,  pick 
over  carefully,  wash  in  several  waters,  put  into  boiling  water,  boil 
one  hour,  drain  well,  add  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  two  hours ; 
when  done,  turn  into  a  colander  and  drain,  season  with  butter,  and 
more  sajt  if  needed,  and  cut  with  a  knife ;  or  boil  with  a  piece  of 
salt  pork,  omitting  the  butter  in  the  dressing. 

Egg  Plant. 
Peel  and  cut  in-  slices  the  purple  kind,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  drain  on  a  tipped  plate  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour ;  make  a  light  batter  with  one  egg,  fiour  and  a  little  water, 
dip  the  slices  into  it  and  fry  in  butter  or  lard.  Eggs  and  cracker 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  batter.  Or,  peel  the  egg-plant,  boil  till 
done,  then  pour  off  the  water,  mash  fine,  and  pepper,  butter  and 
salt  to  taste,  put  in  a  shallow  pudding-pan,  and  over  the  top  place 
a  thick  layer  of  crushed  cracker.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 


VEGETABLES.  333 

Egg  Plant. 
Peel  and  slice  one  or  two  medium-sized  egg-p]ants,  put  on  in  cold 
water,  boil  till  tender,  drain,  mash  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  a  beaten  egg  and  a  table-spoon  of  flour ;  fry  in  little  cakes 
in. butter  or  butter  and  lard  in  equal  parts;  or  cut  in  slices,  lay  in 
cold  well-salted  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  with  a  little  butter.  Parsnips  and  salsify  or  oyster- 
plant  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  but  the  oyster-plant  is  made 
in  smaller  cakes  to  imitate  oysters. 

Wilted  Lettuce. 
Place  in  a  vegetable  dish  lettuce  that  has  been  very  carefully 
picked  and  washed  each  leaf  by  itself,  to  remove  all  insects.  Cut 
across  the  dish  four  or  five  times,  nnd  sprinkle  with  salt.  Fry  a 
small  piece  of  fat  ham  until  brown,  cut  it  in  small  pieces;  when 
very  hot  add  cup  of  good  vinegar,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the 
lettuce;  mix  it  well  with  a  fork,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard* 
boiled  eggs.  Be  certain  to  have  the  fat  so  hot  that  when  vinegars  is 
poured  in,  it  will  boil  immediately.  Add  half  a  cup  or  a  cup  of 
vinegar  according  to  strength  of  vinegar  and  quantity  of  lettuce. 

Baked  Macaroni. 

Take  about  three  ounces  macaroni  and  boil  till  tender  in  a  stew* 

pan  with  a  little  water ;  take  a  pudding  dish  or  pan,  warm  a  little 

butter  in  it,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  a  layer  of  cheese 

grated  or  cut  in  small  bits,  and  sprinkle  over  with  salt,  pepper 

and  small  pieces  of  butter,  then  add    another  layer  of  macaroni, 

and  so  on,  finishing  off  with  cheese;  pour  on  rich  milk  or  cream 

enough  to  just  come  to  the  top  of  the  ingredients,  and  bake  from 

one-half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour.     Rice  may  be  used  instead 

of  macaroni  by  first  cooking  as  follows :  Pick  and  wash  a  cup  of  rice, 

put  in  a  stew-kettle  with  three  cups  boiling  water,  and  set  over  the 

fire^the  boiling  water  makes  the  kernels  retain  their  shape  better 

than  when  cold  water  is  used.     When  done  put  a  layer  of  rice, 

cheese,  etc.,  alternately  as  you  would  macaroni,  and  bake  in  the 

same  way. 

Boiled  Macaroni. 

Pour  one  pint  boiling  water  over  five  ounces  macaroni,  let  stand 

half  an  hour,  drain  and  put  in  a  custard-ketde  with  boiling  milk  or 


334  VEGETABLES. 

milk  and  water  to  cover,  cook  till  tender,  drain,  add  a  table-spoon 
butter,  and  a  tea-cup  cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  grate 
cheese  over  the  top  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  B.  T. 

Macaroni  with  Tomatoes. 
Take  three  pints  of  beef  soup,  clear,  and  put  one  pound  of  maca- 
roni in  it,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  with  a  little  salt ;  then  take  up  the 
macaroni — which  should  have  absorbed  nearly  all  the  liquid — and 
put  it  on  a  flat  plate,  and  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  it  thickly, 
and  pour  over  all  pleiuifully  a  sauce  made  of  tomatoes,  well  boiled, 
strained,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Itauan  Macaroni. 
Place  two  pounds  of  beef,  well  larded  with  strips  of  salt  pork, 
and  one  or  two  chopped  onions,  in  a  covered  kettle  on  the  back  of 
the  stove,  until  it  throws  out  its  juice  and  is  a  rich  brown ;  add  a 
quart  of  tomatoes  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  allow  the 
mixture  to  simmer  for  two  or  three  hours.  Take  the  quantity  of 
macaroni  desired  and  boil  in  water  for  twenty  minutes,  after  which 
put  one  layer  of  the  boiled  macaroni  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding 
dish,  cover  with  some  of  the  above  mixture,  then  a  layer  of  grated 
cheese,  and  so  on  in  layers  till  the  dish  is  filled,  having  a  layer  of 
cheese  on  the  top ;  place  in  the  oven  an  hour,  or  until  it  is  a  rich 
browiL     Commence  early  in  the  morning  to  prepare  this  dish. 

Boiled  Okra. 
Put  the  young  and  tender  pods  of  long,  white  okra  in  salted  boil 
ing  water  in  a  porcelain  or  tin-lined  sauce-pan  (as  iron  discolors  it), 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  take  off  stems,  and  serve  with  butter,  pepper, 
mlt,  and  vinegar  if  preferred ;  or,  after  boiling,  slice  in  rings,  sea- 
son with  butter,  dip  in  batter  and  fry ;  season  and  serve,  or  stew  an 
equal  quantity  of  tomatoes,  and  tender  sliced  okra,  and  one  or  two 
sliced  groen  peppers;  stew  in  porcelain  kettle  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. — Miss  M, 
E.  W.,  Selvfuiy  Ala. 

Baked  Onions. 

The  large  Spanish  or  Bermuda  onions  are  best  for  this  purpose. 
Wash  the  outside  clean,  put  into  a  sauce-pan  with  slightly  salted 


VEGETABLES,  335 

water,  and  boil  an  hour,  replenishing  the  water  with  more  (boiling 
fact  J  as  it  boils  away.  Then  turn  off  watc^r ;  take  out  onions  and 
lay  upon  a  cloth  that  all  moisture  may  be  absorl^ed ;  roll  each  in  a 
piece  of  buttered  tissue-paper,  twisting  it  at  the  top  to  keep  it 
closed,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  nearly  an  hour,  or  until  tender  all 
through.  Peel,  put  in  a  deep  dish,  and  brown  slightly,  basting 
freely  with  butter ;  this  will  take  fifteen  minutes  more.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  the  top. 

BoiLKD  OR  Fried  Onions. 
Wash  and  peel,  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  off  this  water,  again  add 
boiling  water,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  drain  a  second  time;  pour  on 
boiling  water,  add  salt  and  boil  for  one  hour;  place  in  a  colander,  turn 
a  saucer  over  them,  and  press  firmly  to  drive  off  all  the  water;  place 
in  a  dish  and  add  butter  and  pepper.  Or,  about  half  an  hour  before 
they  are  done,  turn  a  pint  of  milk  into  the  water  in  which  they  are 
boiling,  and,  when  tender,  season  as  above.  Old  onions  require  two 
hours  to  boil.  To  fry  onions,  slice  and  boil  ten  minutes  each  time 
in  three  waters,  drain,  fry  in  butter  or  beef  drippings,  stir  often, 
season,  and  serve  hot. 

Potatoes  Boiled  or  Baked  in  Jackets. 
Wash  clean  (a  brush  is  the  best  implement  for  cleaning  potatoes), 
cut  off  the  ends,  let  stand  in  cold  water  a  few  hours,  put  into  boil- 
ing water,  the  larger  ones  first,  and  then  in  a  short  time  adding  the 
rest,  cover,  and  keep  boiling  constantly ;  after  fifteen  minutes  throw 
in  another  handful  of  salt  and  boil  another  fifteen  minutes;  try  with 
a  fork,  and  if  it  does  not  quite  run  through  the  potato,  they  are 
done  (this  is  called  **  leaving  a  bone  in  them").  Drain,  take  to 
door  or  window  and  shake  in  open  air  to  make  them  mealy;  re- 
turn to  stove  and  allow  to  stand  uncovered  for  a  moment.  Or, 
when  washed,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifty  minutes;  or,  place  in 
a  steamer  half  an  hour  over  water  kept  constantly  boiling,  serve 
inmediately ;  or,  wash  and  peel  medium -sized  ones,  and  bake  in 
pan  with  roast  meat,  basting  oftien  with  the  drippings. 

Breakfast  Potatoes. 
Peel,  cut  in  very  thin  slices  into  a  very  little  boiling  water» 


836  VEGETABLES, 

BO  little  that  it  will  be  evaporated  when  they  are  cooked,  add  salt 
to  taste,  some  cream,  or  a  very  lUUe  milk  and  a  bit  of  butter.  A 
little  practice  will  make  this  a  favorite  dish  in  any  family.  The 
art  is,  to  cook  the  potatoes  with  a  very  little  water,  so  that  it  will 
be  evaporated  at  the  time  the  potatoes  are  done.  They  must  be 
stirred  occasionally  while  cooking. 

POTATOICS  AND  OnIONS. 

Boil  potatoes  in  skins,  peel  while  hot  and  slice ;  about  an  hour 
before  wanted,  slice  onions,  and  let  stand  in  salt  and  water;  while 
peeling  potatoes,  put.  onions  in  skillet  with  a  little  ham  gravy  or 
butter  and  a  little  water,  and  cook  slightly ;  take  out,  put  in  vege- 
table dish  a  layer  of  onions,  then  potatoes,  then  onions,  etc.,  with 
potatoes  last ;  add  a  cup  of  vinegar  to  skillet  (with  ham  gravy  or 
butter),  warm  and  .pour  over. 

Fried  Raw  Potatoes. 
Wash,  peel,  and  slice  in  cold  water,  drain  in  a  colander,  and  drop 
in  a  skillet  prepared  with  two  table-spoons  melted  butter  or  beef- 
drippings,  or  one-half  of  each ;  keep  closely  covered  for  ten  minutes, 
only  removing  to  stir  with  a  knife  from  the  bottom  to  prevent 
burning ;  cook  another  ten  minutes,  stirring  frequently  until  done 
and  lightly  browned.  Sweet  potatoes  are  nice  prepared  in  the  same 
manner. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Soidhard, 

Fried  Whole  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  boil  in  salted  water,  remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as 

done  so  that  they  may  remain  whole ;  have  ready  one  beaten  egg, 

and  some  rolled  crackers  or  bread-crumbs ;  first  roll  the  potatoes  in 

the  eggf    and  then   in  the  crackers,  and  fry  in  butter  till  a  light 

brown,  or  drop  in  boiling  lard.     This  is  a  nice  way  to  cook  old 

potatoes. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Pare  and  boil  till  done,  drain,  and  mash  in  the  kettle  until  per- 
fectly smooth;  add  milk  or  cream,  and  butter  and  salt;  beat  like 
cake  with  a  large  spoon,  and  the  more  they  are  beaten  the  nicer 
they  become.  Put  in  a  dish,  smooth,  place  a  lump  of  butter  in  the 
center,  sprinkle  with  pepper ;  or  add  one  or  two  eggs  well-beaten, 
pepper,  mix  thoroughly,  put  in  baking  dish,  dip  a  knife  in  sweet 


v» 


VEGETABLES.  337 

milk,  smooth  over,  wetting  every  part  with  milk,  and  place  in  a  hot 
oveu  twenty  minutes.  To  warm  over  mashed  potatoes,  season  with 
salt  and  butter,  and  a  little  cream  or  milk,  place  in  a  buttered  pie- 
pan,  smoothing  and  shaping  the  top  handsomely,  and  making  checks 
with  a  knife ;  brown  in  a  stove  or  range  oven ;  place  tin  on  a  second 
dish  and  serve  on  it.  Or,  add  a  little  cream  or  milk  to  cold  mashed 
potatoes,  press  evenly  in  a  basin,  set  away,  and  in  the  morning  slice 
and  fiy. 

New  Potatoes. 

Wash,  scrape,  boil  ten  muiutes,  turn  off  water,  and  add  enough 
m6Te,  boiling  hot,  to  cover,  also  add  a  little  salt;  cook  a  few 
moments,  drain,  and  set  again  on  stove,  add  butter,  salt,  and  pepper 
and  a  little  thickening  made  of  two  table-spoons  flour  in  about  a 
pint  of  milk  (a  few  small  ones  may  be  left  in  the  kettle,  and 
broken,  not  mashed  with  the  potato-masher),  put  on  the  cover,  and, 
when  the  milk  has  boiled,  pour  over  potatoes  and  serve.  Or,  when 
cooked  and  drained,  put  in  a  skillet  with  hot  drippings,  cover,  and 
shake  till  a  nice  brown. 

Potatoes  in  Jackets. 

Bake  as  many  potatoes  as  are  needed ;  when  done,  take  off  a 
little  piece  from  one  end  to  permit  them  to  stand,  from  the  other 
end  cut  a  large  piece,  remove  careinlly  the  inside,  and  rub  through 
a  fine  sieve,  or  mash  thoroughly ;  put  on  the  fire  with  half  an  ounce 
of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  grated  cheese  to  every  four  fair-sized 
potatoes;  and  add  boiling  milk  and  pepper  and  salt  as  for  mashed 
potatoes;  fill  the  potato  shells,  and  sprinkle  over  mixed  bread-crumbs 
and  grated  cheese;  and  put  in  hot  oven  and  brown.  Many  prefer 
to  omit  cheese  and  bread-crumbs,  filling  the  shells  heaping  full  and 
then  browning. 

Potatoes  in  Kentucky  Style. 

Slice  thin  as  for  fiying,  let  remain  in  cold  water  half  an  hour ; 

put  into  pudding-dish  or  dripping-pan,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  some 

milk — about  half  a  pint  to  an  ordinary  dish ;  put  into  oven  and 

hake  for  an  hour ;  take  out  and  add  a  lump  of  butter  half  the  size 

of  an  eggf  cut  into  small  bits  and  scattered  over  the  top.     Blicing 

iUowB  the  interior  of  each  potato  to  be  examined,  hence  its  value 
22 


338  VEGETABLES. 

where  potatoes  are  (doubtful,  though  poor  ones  are  not  of  necesflily 
required.  Soaking  in  cold  water  hardens  the  slices,  so  that  they 
will  hold  their  shape.  The  milk  serves  to  cook  them  through,  and 
to  make  a  nice  brown  on  the  top;  the  quantity  can  only  b& learned 
by  experience ;  if  just  a  little  is  left  as  a  rich  gravy,  moistening  all 
the  slices,  then  it  is  right.  In  a  year  of  small  and  poor  potatoes, 
this  method  of  serving  them  will  be  very  welcome  to  many  a  house- 
keeper.— Mrs,  G,  M.  NicIwlSj  Springfidil. 

Potatoes  a  la  Parisienne. 
Wash  and  rub  new  potatoes  with  a  coarse  cloth  (avoid  scraping 
if  possible),  drop  into  boiling  water,  boil  briskly  until  done,  taking 
care  not  to  over  do  (if  doubtful  on  this  point. press  one  of  the  potatoes 
with  a  fork  against  the  side  of  the  sauce-pan,  if  done  it  will  yield 
to  a  gentle  pressure).  Have  ready,  in  a  sauce-pan,  some  cream  and 
butter  hot,  but  not  boiling,  a  little  green  parsley,  pepper  and  salt ; 
pour  off  the  water  from  the  potatoes  and  add  the  cream  and  butter, 
let  stand  a  minute  or  two  over  hot  water,  and  serve. 

Potato  Souffle 

Boil  four  good-sized  mealy  potatoes,  pass  them  through  a  sieve ; 
scald  in  a  clean  sauce-pan  half  tea-cup  of  sweet  milk  and  table- 
spoon of  good  butter,  add  to  the  potato  with' a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
and  beat  to  a  cream  ;  add  one  at  a  time,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
beating  thoroughly,  drop  a  small  pinch  of  salt  into  the  whites  and 
beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them  to  the  mixture,  beating  as  little 
as  possible;  have  ready  a  well-buttered  baking-dish,  large  enough 
to  permit  the  souffle  to  rise  without  running  over;  bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  brisk  oven,  serve  at  once,  and  in  the  same  dish  in 
which  it  was  baked.  It  should  be  eaten  with  meats  that  have 
gravies. 

Potatoes  in  Seven  Ways. 

Sunday,  peel,  steam,  mash,  add  milk,  butter  and  salt,  and  then 
beat  like  cake-batter,  ihe  longer  the  better,  till  they  are  luce  and  light 
This  steaming  and  beating  will  be  found  a  great  improvement. 

Monday,  baked  potatoes  in  their  jackets ;  if  any  are  left  they 
may  be  warmed  over,  peeling  when  cold,  and  then  slicing. 
,  Tuesday,  peel  and  bake  with  roast  of  beef. 


VEGETABLES,  339 

Wednesday,  prepare  in  Kentucky  style. 

Thursday,  peel,  steam,  and  serve  whole. 

Friday,  ''potatoes  a  la  pancake;*^  peel,  cut  in  thin  slices  length- 
wise, sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  butter  or  beef  drip- 
Ipiugs,  turning  like  griddle-cakes. 

Saturday,  potatoes  boiled  in  their  jackets. 

Ringed  Potatoes. 
Peel  large  potatoes,  cut  them  round  and  round  in  shavings,  as 
you  pare  an  apple.     Fry  with  clean,  sweet  lard  in  a  frying-pan  till 
brown,  stirring  so  as  to  brown  all  alike,  drain  on  a  sieve,  sprinkle  fine 
Bait  over  them,  and  serve. 

Potato  Rissoles. 
Mash  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  if  desired  add  a  little 
parsley.  Roll  the  potatoes  into  small  balls,  cover  them  with 'an  egg 
and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hqt  lard .  for  about  two  minutes. 
Finely  minced  tongue  or  ham  may  be  added  with  good  effect,  or 
even  chopped  onions  when  liked. 

Texas  Baked  Irish  Potatoes. 

Boil  some  good  Irish  potatoes ;  when  done,  mash,  season  with  salt, 

pepper  and  butter;  mince  a  large  onion  fine,  mix  well  through  the 

potatoes,  put  in  oven  and  brown  nicely. — Mrs.   C.  E,  &,  Galve^ 

ton,  Texas, 

Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Pare  and  cut  into  thin  slices  on  a  slaw-cutter  four  large  potatoes 

(new  are  best),  let  stand  in  ice-cold  salt  water  ^vhile  breakfast  is 

cooking;  take  a  handful  of  the  potatoes,  squeeze  the  water  from 

them  and  dry  in  a  napkin;  separate  the  slices  and  drop  a  handful 

at  a  time  into  a  skillet  of  Ixnlinjj^  lard,  takin<r  care  that  they  do  not 

strike  together,  stir  with  a  fork  till  th(\v  are  a  light  brown  color, 

take  out  with  a  wire  spoon,  (Iraiu  well  and  serve  in  an  open  dish. 

They  are  very  nice  served  cold. — Mrs.  Jcu^per  Soger, 

Sweet  Potatoes. 
Wash  clean  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  one  hour ;  or  place  in  steamer 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour , 
or  when  almost  done,  take  off,  scrape  or  peel  them,  place  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan, and  bake  half  an  hour;  or  cut  in  slices  and  fry  in  butter 


340 


VEGETABLES. 


or  lard ;  or  peel  and  slice  when  raw,  and  fry,  a  layer  at  a  time,  on 
griddle,  or  in  a  frying-pan,  with  a  little  melted  lard,  being  careful 
not  to  cook  too  long,  or  they  will  become  too  hard ;  or  drop  in  boil- 
ing lard  in  frying-pan,  turning  till  a  nice  brown  on  both  %ides;  or 
halve  or  quarter,  and  bake  in  pan  with  roast  beef,  basting  them 
often  with  the  drippings. 

Baked  Parsnips. 
Put  four  thin  slices  salt  pork  in  a  kettle  with  two  quarts  cold 
water,  wash  and  scrape  parsnips,  and  if  large  halve  or  quarter,  and 
as  soon  as  water  boils  place  in  kettle,  boil  about  half  an  hour,  re- 
move meat,  parsnips,  and  gravy  to  a  dripping-pan,  sprinkle  with  a 
little  white  sugar,  and  bake  in  oven  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  until 
they  are  a  light  brown,  and  the  water  is  all  fried  out  Add  a  few 
potatoes  if  liked.  Those  left  over,  fried  in  a  hot  skillet,  with  but- 
ter, ham  &t  or  beef  drippings,  make  a  nice  breakfast  dish.  It  is 
better  to  dip  each  slice  in  a  beaten  egg  before  frying.  Parsnips  are 
good  in  March  or  April,  and  make  an  excellent  seasoning  for  soups. 

Stewed  Parsnips. 
Wash,  scrape,  and  slice  about  half,  an  inch  thick;  have  a  skiUet 
prepared  with  a  half  pint  hot  water  and  a  table-spoon  butter,  add 
the  parsnips,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  closely,  and  stew 
until  the  water  is  cooked  away,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burn- 
ing.    When  done,  the  parsnips  will  be  of  a  creamy,  light  brown 

color. — Mre,  D.  B. 

Green  Pease. 

Wash  lightly  two  quarts  shelled  pease,  put  into  boiling  water 

enough  to  cover,  boil  twenty  minutes,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  more 

hot  water  if  needed  to  prevent  burning,  and  two  table-spoons  butter 

rubbed  into  two  of 'flour;  stir  well,  and  boil  five  minutes.     If  podjE 

are  clean  and  fresh,  boil  first  in  water  to  give  flavor,  skim  out  and 

put  in  pease.     Canned  pease  should  be  rinsed  before  cooking. 

Pease  Stewed  in  Cream. 

Put  two  or  three  pints  of  young  green  pease  into  a  sauce-pan  oi 

boiling  water;  when  nearly  done  and  tender,  drain  in  a  colander, 

quite  dry;  melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  clean  stew-pan,  thicken 

evenly  with  a  little  flour,  shake  it  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it 


/ 


VEGETABLES,  341 

brown,  mxsc  smoothly  with  a  gill  of  cream,  add  half  a  tea-spoon  of 
white  sugar,  bring  to  a  boil,  pour  in  the  pease,  keep  moving  for  two 
minutes  until  well  heated,  and  serve  hot.  The  sweet  pods  of  young 
pease  are  made  by  the  Germans  into  a  palatable  dbh  by  simply 
Btewiug  with  a  little  butter  and  savory  herbs. — Mn.  W,  A.  Oroffut. 

How  TO  Boil  Rice. 
Bice   should  be  carefully  picked   over,  washed   in  warm  water, 

rubbed  between  the  hands,  and  then  rinsed  several  times  in  cold 

water  till  white.     Put  one  tea-cupful  in  a  tin  pan  or  porcelain  kettle, 

add  one  quart  boiling  water;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  not  stirring,  but 

taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn ;  add  one  tea-spoon  salt,  pour  into 

a  dish  and  send  to  table,  placing  a  lump  of  butter  in  the   center. 

Cooked  thus  the  kernels  remain  whole. 

To  boil  rice  in  milk,  put  a  pint  rice  into  nearly  two  quarts  of  cold 
milk  an  hour  before  dinner,  add  two  tea-spoons  salt,  boil  very  slowly 
and  stir  often ;  cook  on  back  part  of  stove  or  range  so  as  to  avoid 
burning,  and  take  it  up  into  a  mold  or  bowl  wet  in  cold  water  a  short 
time  before  serving. 

Or,  after  cooking,  drain  carefully,  stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one 

table-spoon  grated  cheese;  half  a  table-spoon  butter,  half  a  tea-spoon 

salt ;  bake  a  few  minutes  in  shallow  pans.     Some  soak  rice  an  hour 

or  two  before  cooking. 

Southern  Rice. 

After  thoroughly  washing  and  rubbing  the  rice,  put  it  in  salted 
water  enough  to  cover  it  twice  over,  in  a  custard-kettle,  or  tin  pail 
set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  cover  the  whole  closely  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  until  the  grains  of  rice  are  full  and  plump  but 
not  ** mushy;"  drain  off  all  the  water  possible,  and  replace  rice  in 
the  kettle,  allowing  it  to  cook  for  half  an  hour  longer,  when  it  is 
ready  to  serve.  The  grains  should  be  full  and  soft,  and  each  one 
retain  its  form  perfectly.  During  the  last  half  hour  it  should  be 
occasionally  stirred  lightly  with  a  fork,  and  it  is  improved  by  stand- 
ing on  the  back  of  the  stove  a  few  minutes  before  serving. — Mrs,  P. 
T.  Horey,  Charleston,  S.  C, 

Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oysters, 
Wash  thoroughly,  scrape  off  skin  with  a  knife,  cut  across  in 
rather  thin  slices,  stew  until  tender  in  water  enough  to  cover  them« 


342 


VEGETABLES, 


with  a  piece  of  salt  codfish  for  seasoning.  Before  sending  to  table, 
remove  codfish,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together,  toast 
slices  of  bread,  put  in  dish,  and  then  add  the  vegetable  oyster. 
This  method  gives  the  flavor  of  oysters  to  the  vegetable,  and  adds 
much  to  its  delicacy.  Or,  after  stewing  until  tender  in  clear  water, 
mash,  season  with  pepper  and  saH,  and  serve. — Mrs,  Gov.  J,  J. 
Bagleyj  Michigan, 

^  Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oysters. 

Parboil  after  scraping  ofl*  the  outside,  cut  in  slices,  dip  it  into  a 
beaten  egg  and  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard.  Or,  slice  cross- 
wise five  or  six  good-sized  plants,  cook  till  tender  in  water  enough 
to  cover,  then  add  a  pint  or  more  of  rich  milk  mixed  with  one 
table-spoon  flour,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  let  boil  up 
and  pour  over  slices  of  toasted  brea<l ;  or  aild  three  pints  milk,  or 
half  milk  and  water,  season  and  serve  with  crackers  like  oyster 
soup. 

Cym LINGS  OR  Summer  Squash. 

These  are  better  when  young  and  tender,  which  may  be  known 
by  pressing  the  nail  through  the  skin ;  do  not  peel  or  take  out 
seeds,  but  boil  whole,  or  cut  across  in  thick  slices ;  boil  in  as  little 
water  as  possible  for  one-half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  drain 
well,  mash  and  set  on  back  part  of  stove  or  range  to  dry  out  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  ;  then  season  with  butter 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  cream.  If  old,  peel,  cut  up,  take  out  seeds, 
boil  and  season  as  above. 

Winter  Squash. 

Cut  up,  fake  out  inside,  pare  the  pieces  and  stew  in  as  little 
water  as  ]x)s>ible,  cook  an  hour,  mash  in  kettle,  and  if  watery,  let 
stand  on  the  fire  a  few  moments,  stirring  until  dry;  season  with 
butter,  cream,  salt  and  pepper;  he  careful  that  it  does  not  burn. 
Winter  squashes  are  also  cooked  by  cutting  in  pieces  witiiout  paring, 
baking,  and  serving  like  potatoes;  or  they  may  be  cooked  in  a 
steamer,  and  served  either  in  the  shell,  or  scraped  out,  put  in  pan, 
mashed,  and  seasoned  with  butter,  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  and  then 
made  hot  and  served. 


VEGETABLES,  343 

Succotash. 

Take  pint  of  shelled  lima  beans  (green),  wash,  cover  with  hot  water, 
let  stand  five  minutes,  pour  ofF,  place  over  fire  in  hot  water,  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes;  have  ready  ecru  from  six  good-sized  ears,  and  add 
to  beans ;  boil  half  an  hour,  add  salt,  pepper  and  two  table-spoops 
butter.  Be  careful  in  cutting  down  corn  not  to  cut  too  deep; 
better  not  cut  deep  enough  and  then  scrape ;  after  corn  is  added, 
watch  carefully  to  keep  from  scorching.  Or,  to  cook  with  meat, 
boil  one  pound  salt  pork  two  hours,  add  beans,  cook  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  corn,  omitting  butter.  Or,  string  beans  may  be  used, 
cooking  one  hour  before  adding  corn. 

Winter  Succotash. 
Wash  one  pint  lima  beans  (dried  when  green)  and  one  and  a  half 
pints  dried  corn ;  put  beans  in  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water ; 
cover  com  with  cold  water  in  a  tin  pan,  set  on  top  of  kettle  of  beans 
80  that  while  the  latter  are  boiling  the  com  may  be  heating  and 
swelling;  boil  beans  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off*,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  when  tender  (half  an  hour)  add  com,  cooking  both 
together  for  fifteen  minutes ;  five  minutes  before  serving,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  a  dressing  of  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together,  or  one- 
half  tea-cup  cream  or  milk  thickened  with  one  table-spoon  flour. 

Spinach. 
Look  over  the  spinach,  wash  in  four  waters  and  take  off'  stalks, 
boil  in  a  sauce-pan  without  water  for  thirty  minutes,  covering 
closely,  drain  in  a  colander  and  cut  with  a  knife  while  draining ; 
season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter,  boil  two  eggs  hard  and 
slice  over  the  top;  serve  hot.  Or  it  may,  when  boiled  soft,  be 
rubbed  through  the  colander,  then  put  in  frying-pan,  with  a  lump 
of  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  When  hot,  l)eat  in  two 
or  three  table-spoons  rich  cream.  Put  thin  slices*  of  buttered  toast 
(one  for  each  person)  on  dish  and  on  each  piece  put  a  cupfiil  of 
spinach  neatly  smoothed  in  shape,  with  the  half  of  a  hard-boiled  egg 
on  the  top,  cut  part  uppermost. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 
Cut  a  thin  slice  from  blossom  side  of  twelve  solid,  smooth,  ripe 
tomatoes,  with  a  tea-spoon  remove  pulp  without  breaking  shell; 


344 


VEGETABLES. 


take  a  small,  solid  head  of  cabbage  and  one  onion,  chop  fine,  add 
bread  crumbs  rubbed  fine,  and  pulp  of  tomatoes,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  sugar,  add  a  tea-cup  good  sweet  cream,  mix  well 
together,  fill  tomatoes,  put  the  slice  back  in  its  place,  lay  them  stem 
end  down  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  just  eyiaugh  water  (some 
cook  without  water),  with  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each,  to  keep 
from  burning,  and  bake  half  an  hour,  or  until  tJiarou^Idy  done; 
place  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  and  serve  in  baking-dish.  They  make 
a  handsome  dish  for  a  dinner-table. — Mrs.  S,  Waiion,  Upper  San- 

dmhy.  k 

EscALOPED  Tomatoes. 

Put  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker-crumbs 
seasoned  with  bits  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar  if  desired,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
and  so  on  till  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  tlie  crumbs.  Bake  from 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour.  Onions,  prepared  by  soaking 
over  night  in  hot  water,  dried  well,  sliced  in  nearly  hiUf-inch  slices, 
and  browned  on  both  sides  in  a  frying-pan  with  butter,  may  be 
added,  a  layer  on  each  layer  of  tomatoes. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Peel  tomatoes  and  cut  crosswise  in  large  slices,  salt  and  pepper, 

dip  each  slice  into  wheat  flour,  tlien  into  beaten  eg^^  and  fry  at 

once  in  hot  lard;  serve  hot.     A  cup  of  milk  is  sometimes  thickened 

with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  boiled  and  poured  over  them. — Eetdls 

Woods  Wilcox, 

Mother's  Sliced  Tomatoes. 

Prepare  half  an   hour  l)efore  dinner,  scald  a  few  at  a  time  in 

boiling  water,  peel,  slice,  and  sprinkle   with  salt  and  pepper,  set 

away  in  a  cool  place,  or  lay  a  piece  of  ice  on   them.     Serve  as  a 

relish  for  dinner  in  their  own  liquor.     Those  who  desire  may  add 

vinegar  and  sugar. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Scald  by  pouring  water  over  them,  peel,  slice  and  cut  out  all 

defective  parts;,  place  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  hot  skillet,  put  in 

tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  keep  up  a  brisk  fire,  and 

cook  as  rapidly  a.s  possible,  stirring  with  a  spoon  or  chopping  up 

with  a  knife  (in  the  latter  case  wipe  the  knife  as  oflen  as  used  ox 


VEGETABLES.  345 

It  will  blackect  the  tomatoes).  Cook  half  an  hour.  Serve  at  once 
in  a  deep  dish  lined  with  toast.  When  iron  is  used,  tomatoes  must 
cook  rapidly  and  have  constant  attention.  If  prepared  in  tin  or 
porcelain,  they  do  not  require  the  same  care. — Mrs.  Judge  Cole. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Run  a  quart  of  stewed  ripe  tomatoes  through  a  colander,  place 
in  a  porcelain  stew-pan,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  aud 
sugar  to  taste;  cut  slices  of  bread  thin,  brown  on  both  sides,  butter 
and  lay  on  a  platter,  and  just  as  the  bell  rings  for  tea  add  a  pint 
of  good  sweet  cream  to  the  stewed  tomatoes,  and  pour  them  over 
toast. — Mn.  S.  Watson. 

Turnips. 

Wash,  peel,  cut  in  thin  slices  across  th§  grain,  and  place  in  kettle 
in  as  little  water  as  possible;  boil  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  or  until  you  can  easily  pierce  them  with  a  fork ;  drain  well, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  mash  fine  and  place  on  stove, 
stirring  frequently  until  water  is  all  dried  out.  Do  not  boil  too 
long,  as  they  are  much  sweeter  when  cooked  quickly.  Turnips 
may'  be  steamed  and  finished  as  above,  and  are  better  than  when 
boiled.     They  may  also  be  sliced  and  baked. 

Diced  Turnips. 

Pare,  slice,  cut  in  dice  an  inch  square,  boil  till  nearly  done,  in  as 
little  water  as  possible ;  to  one  quart  of  turnips,  add  one  table-spoon 
sugar,  salt  to  make  it  palatable ;  when  they  are  boiled  as  dry  as 
possible,  add  two  or  three  spoons  of  creiim  and  a  beaten  egg,  and 
serve.     Excellent. 

Tip-top  Pudding,  or  Vegetable  Pudding. 

Boil  a  firm,  white  cabbage  fifteen  minutes,  changing  water  then 
for  more  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle;  when  tender,  drain  and  set 
aside  till  perfectly  cold ;  chop  fine,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  three  of  very  rich  milk  or  cream,  pepper  and  salt. 
Stir  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until 
brown ;  serve  hot.  This  dish  is  digestible  and  palatable,  much  re- 
*«mbling  cauliflowers,— "JLtin*  Dinah." 


ORNAMENTAL  ICING. 


BY   PROF.   C.   H.   KING. 

Ornamental  icing  consists  in  working  two  or  more  colors  of  icing 
on  one  surface, — such,  for  instance,  as  pink  and  white,  or  choco- 
late and  white,  sometimes  with,  sometimes  without,  the  addition  of 
crystallizing.  To  ic^  a  cake  white  and  pipe  or  ornament  it  with 
pink  piperj,  or  ice  it  with  pink  or  chocolate  icing  and  pipe  it  with 
white  icing,  would  constitute  ornamental  icing.  But  there  is 
another  method  called  "  inlaid,"  which  consists  of  having  different 
colored  icing  on  the  same  surface,  not  simply  a  different  colored 
piping  on  the  icing.  The  best  illustration  I  can  give  of  this  wiU,  I 
think,  be  a  chess-board.  To  do  it  take  a  cone,  cut  a  fine  point  off^ 
fill  it  as  instructed  in  **  artistic  piping,"  draw  fine  lines  first 
straight  down  one  inch  apart,  then  across  at  the  same  distance  at 
right  angles ;  you  have  then  formed  squares  one  inch  across.  Now 
fill  these  in  alternately  with  either  white  or  pink  and  white,  and 
then  chocolate  icing  or  pink  and  chocolate.  You  then  have  the 
squares  in  two  colors,  the  same  as  they  would  appear  on  a  chess  or 
checker-board.  The  only  point  to  be  here  observed  is  to  have  your 
icing  soft  enough  to  just  run  smooth ;  the  lines  will  prevent  it  from 
running  together.  You  can  work  any  pattern  you  choose  in  this 
manner  by  simply  running  a  line  of  piping  to  form  the  design,  then 
tilling  in  as  before  described.  You  can  also  further  vary  this  by 
marking  out  any  design,  and  with  a  small  paint-brush  washing  it 
over  with  white  of  egg  or  gum-water,  then  covering  it  with  granu- 
lated sugar  either  plain  white  or  colored ;  or  you  can  cover  it  with 
powdered  chocolate  or  rolled  rock  candy,  either  pink  or  white;  shake 
off  what  will  not  stick,  and  you  will  find  the  design  covered  with 
the  sugar;  now  pipe  round  the  edge  of  the  design  with  a  fine  cone 
of  icing  sugar,  and  it  is  complete. 

(346) 


ORNAMENTAL  ICLNQ.  347 

Crystallization. 

CrystaUization  consists  in  simply  covering  the  cake  while  the 
icing  is  wet  with  granulated  sugar,  plain  or  pink.  (For  coloring 
sugar  pink  see  **  meringue  icing  ").  Or  you  can  use  pink  or  white 
sugar  or  rock  candy  crushed.  If  you  wish  to  crystallize  only  a 
portion  of  the  icing,  and  that  in  any  particular  design,  first  allow 
the  icing  to  dry,  then  wash  the  part  you  wish  crystallized  with  white 
of  egg  or  gum- water,  and  cover  it  with  the  sugar;  then  shake  off 
what  will  not  remain  on. 

Artistic  Piping,  with  Diagrams. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  wish  to  excel  in  the  art  of  orna- 
menting bride  or  other  cakes  with  icing  (technically  called  '*pip- 
ing,'')  I  give  a  sheet  of  diagrams,  which  will  almost  explain  them- 
selves, and  will  require  but  little  study  by  those  having  a  taste  for 
artistic  work  (which  most  ladies  have)  to  master  it;  and  I  promise 
you  that  if  you  will  master  this  sheet  of  diagrams  before  attempting 
any  thing  more  elaborate  (on  the  same  principle  as  you  first  perfect 
yourself  in  the  scales  for  music  before  attempting  the  playing  of  a 
piece),  that  you  will  succeed  beyond  your  expectations,  and  will 
soon  be  able  to  ornament  a  cake  equal  to  an  expert.  I  would 
here  remark  that  this  applies  to  all  kinds  of  ornamenting,  as  it  is 
all  done  in  the  same  manner,  no  matter  whether  the  material  used 
be  butter,  lard,  or  savory  jelly  for  the  decoration  of  tongues,  roast 
chicken,  hams,  etc. ,  or  sweet  jelly,  chocolate  or  sugar  for  the  oma- 
tnentation  of  all  kinds  of  cakes.  Learn  one,  and  you  have  learned 
all. 

For  example,  if  you  wish'  to  decorate  a  tongue,  ham,  or  roast 
chicken,  use  either  butter,  lard,  or  savory  jelly,  instead  of  sugar, 
and  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  you  would  icing.  This  orna- 
mentation, with  the  addition  of  a  little  parsley,  and  a  cut  root 
flower  or  so,  completes  the  operation  of  decorating  the  above-named 
articles.  They  are  sometimes  further,  or  even  altogether  decorated 
or  gamishe<l  with  '^tippets,"  cut  diamond  or  triangular  form,  and 
consisting  of  toasted  bread,  ** aspic"  jelly,  etc.;  but  this  style  of 
garnishing  is  usually  adopted  only  by  those  who  are  not  competent 


348 


ORNAMENTAL  ICINO. 


to  decorate  or  giimish  with  butter,  lard,  or  savory  jelly,  and  who 
are  not  able  to  cut  their  own  root  flowers.  Root  flowers  are  usually 
cut  ill  the  form  of  roses,  tulips,  dahlias,  et<.\,  from  white  and  yellow 
turnips,  beets,  and  carrots,  and  the  edges  of  the  leaves  are  usually 
tipped  with  pink  color,  such  as  liquid  **  cochineal." 

To  use  jelly  for  decorating  or  piping  cakes,  set  it  in  a  place 
where  it  will  get  just  warm  enough  to  pass  through  the  cone  with 
'lit;?  aid  of  a  gentle  pressure;  in  cold  weather  it  is  well  to  beat  it 
with  a  t^poon,  in  addition  to  warming  it.  Thi^  makes  it  one  uniform 
consistency.  When  ready  for  use  fill  the  cone  with  it,  then  pro- 
ceed as  directed  for  piping,  using  the  cone  in  the  same  manner  as 
if  it  contained  icing. 

To  use  butter  or  lard  treat  it  in  the  same  manner  as  jelly,  so  as 
to  get  it  just  soft  enough  to  pass  through  the  cone.  Be  very  careful 
not  to  get  it  too  soft  or  it  will  not  stand.  In  warm  weather  you  can 
add  a  little  flour  to  stiflen  it,  but  not  too  much,  or  it  will  not  pass 
through  the  cone;  when  ready  fill  cone  with  it,  same  as  for  icing, 
and  use  the  cone  in  the  same  manner. 

To  cut  root  flowers,  wash  the  roots,  and  for  say  a  rose,  take  a  good 
shaped  turnip,  pare  it,  cut  it  the  proper  shape,  then  with  a  sharp 
pocket  knife  (French  root  flower  cutters  may  be  had  of  dealers 
in  confectioner's  supplies,)  go  all  round  the  bottom  edge,  so  ^^z-n/-^  ; 
then  repeat  this  op)eration,  so  .-oOs,  bringing  the  second  cuts  be- 
tween the  first,  and  holding  the  back  of  the  knife  blade  from  you 
and  the  edge  towards  you.  This  causes  the  cuts  to  meet  at  the 
bottom,  and  then  by  holding  the  knife  point  down,  and  running  it 
all  round  inside  the  cut  the  piece  falls  out,  leaving  the  leaves 
separate  and  distinct.  Continue  this  until  you  reach  the  center, 
eo  ^-<><>Ck.  A  little  practice  will  assist  you  in  this  particular,  and 
>'ou  will  soon  be  able  to  make  other  flowers,  as  the  principle  is  the 
same;  when  the  flowers  are  cut  tip  the  edges  with  a  little -cochineal. 

To  ornament  a  cake  with  icing,  use  prepared  icing  in  the  manner 
I  shall  hereafter  describe.  The  icing  may  be  harmlessly  colored, 
as  follows:  for  pink,  use  ** cochineal;"  for  blue,  use  indigo;  for  yel- 
low, use  saflron ;  for  green,  use  blue  and  yellow,  until  you  attain 
the  required  shade  of  color. 

Although  I  have  given  the  different  colors,  should  you  wish  to 


ORNAMENTAL  ICING.       •  349 

use  them,  I  would  not  recommend  them  except  in  cases  where  their 
use  is  required  to  produce  effect,  and  not  to  be  eaten.  Too  much 
color,  or  too  great  a  number  of  colors,  are  objectionable  and 
not  in  good  taste.  I  suggest  keeping  as  much  as  possible  to  plain 
white,  light  pink,  light  ci*eam  color,  chocolate  color,  produced  by  the 
use  of  chocolate  or  cocoa,  and  the  natural  colors  produced  by  the 
use  of  the  various  sweet  jellies.  By  a  judicious  and  artistic  arrange- 
ment of  the  colors  the  above  articles  will  give,  it  is  possible  to 
produce  an  unlimited  variety,  and  not  place  any  thing  before 
guests  objectionable  in  point  of  color. 

The  sugar  used  for  decorating  cakes  is  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  that  for  icing  cake  (see  icing  for  cakes.)     To  use  it,  have 
ready  prepared  some  paper  cones,  made  by  folding  or  rolling  up  a 
piece  of  paper  in  the  form  of  a  cornet,  and  securing  the  joint  with  a 
little  mucilage  or  white  of  eggs  (see  No.  1,  in  page  of  diagrams). 
Now  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  point  of  cone  so  as  to  leave  hole 
any  size  needed,  from  a  pin's  size  to  half  an  inch  in  diameter  (see 
No.  2,  for  plain  round  work).     If  you  wish  a  star  (No.  3),  cut  off 
the  point  of  the  cone  to  form  an  aperture  equal  to  the  center  of 
the  star  you  require,  then  cut  out  the  points,  as  shown  in  No.  22. 
If  for  a  leaf,  cut  as  shown  in  No.  24.     Now  fill  these  cones  three- 
fourths  full  with  the  prepared  icing,  fold  down  the  top  securely,  so 
that  the  sugar  will  not  force  back,  and  all  is  ready  to  commence  the 
omamentatioi^.     (I  would  here  say  that  it  will  save  the  trouble  of 
cutting  the  cones  to  use  little  brass  tubes,  made  for  the  purpose,  al 
a  cost  of  from  ten  to  fifteen  cents  each.     In  using  these  you  have 
only  to  cut  off  the  point  of  the  paper  cone  large  enough  to  allow  the 
tube  to  come  through  half  its  length.     These  tubes  will  last  a  life- 
time, and  can  be  procured  from  almost  any  confectioner's  supply 
store.) 

The  cones  being  filled  with  the  sugar,  and  the  cake  ready  iced, 
mark  out  (as  lightly  as  possible)  with  a  lead-pencil  the  design  on  the 
cake;  then  go  over  the  design  with  the  cones  of  sugar,  in  the  man* 
ner  hereafter  described,  until  the  design  is  complete.  (I  say  this^ 
presuming  you  have  mastered  the  diagrams.)  I  will  now  explain 
the  diagrams,  and  in  so  doing  hope  I  shall  succeed  in  making  yoa 
fully  understand  the  use  and  purposes  of  the  cones,  and  the  varioot 


850 


ORNAMENTAL  lOINO. 


yet  simple  **  means  to  the  end,"  that  you  may  be  able  to  so 

the  various  diagrams  as  to  form  a  harmonious  whole,  and  surprise 

yourself  by  producing  a  design  beyond  your  expectations. 

To  practice  this,  I  would  recommend  that  you  procure  a  walnut 
board,  about  twelve  inches  square,  perfectly  smooth.  This  being 
dark  and  the  sugar  white  you  can  easily  see  the  work;  and  if  every 
thing  is  clean  the  sugar  need  not  be  wasted,  as  it  can  be  scraped  off 
and  used  for  some  purpose  or  other. 

The  board  being  ready  and  a  cone  filled  with  sugar,  take  the  cone 
in  the  left  hand,  and  place  the  thumb  of  the  right  hand  on  the  folded 
part  or  top ;  use  the  thumb  to  press  on  the  cone  to  force  out  the 
sugar  at  the  point,  in  just  the  same  manner  you  would  use  a  syringe. 
Now  force  out  the  sugar  with  a  regular  and  even  pressure,  and 
draw  a  number  of  fine  lines,  as  even  and  straight  as  possible,  by 
dropping  the  point  of  the  cone  in  the  left  hand  corner  of  the  board, 
and  with  an  onward  motion,  in  accordance  with  the  flow  of  sugar 
(which  will  be  little  or  much,  in  proportion  to  the  pressure  you  give 
the  tube);  run  it  straight 'on  to  the  right  hand  corner  (see  No.  4). 
Notice  that  you  can  make  this  line  larger  by  pressing  harder  on  the 
cdne.     Next  repeat  this,  giving  the  cone  a  zigzag  motion  (No.  5) ; 
then  commence  light,  gradually  increasing  the  pressure,  so  as  to 
produce  a  line  small  at  one  end  and  large  at  the  other  (No.  6) ; 
then  reverse  it  by  beginning  heavy  and  finishing  light  (No.   7). 
When  you  wish  to  disconnect  the  cone  from  the  sugar,  do  so  by 
taking  off  the  pressure  from  the  cone,  and  giving  a  quick,  sudden, 
upward  jerk.     Now  do  some  cross  stringing  (No.  8),  then  No.  9  to 
17;  then  with  the  same  cone,  held  perpendicular  (and  the  sugar 
pushed  out  until  the  drop  is  the  required  size,  then  suddenly  de- 
tached in  the  same  manner  as  above  mentioned),  drop  different 
sized  drops  or  dots  (No.  18  to  20) ;  then  with  the  same  cone,  by 
commencing  at  the  large  end  first  and  gradually  drawing  it  to  a  fine 
thread  do  No.   21.      Now  take  the  star  cut  cone  (No.  22),  and 
drop  some  star  dots,  the  same  as  in  Nos.  18,  19,  and  20;  then  with 
a  circular  or  rotary  motion,  make  roses  (No.  23)  ;  then  repeat  with 
this  star  cone  all  that  you  have  done  with  the  plain  round  cone.   ^ 
Next  take  the  leaf  cone  (No.  24),  and  by  beginning  at  the  large 
end  of  the  leaf  first,  and  gradually  drawing  it  to  a  point,  make  the 


'OoSo.  1$  

OOOOoboo.    oOOOO^OOOoa  oOOOOOOq" 


G> 


a^ 


.( 


352 


ORNAMENTAL  ICINO. 


leaf  as  long  as  desired  (No.  25) ;  by  giving  the  cone  a  wavy  motion 
you  form  the  veins  in  the  leaf.  Then  put  two  together  (No.  26), 
and  with  the  star  cone  add  a  rose  (No.  27);  then  three  leaves  and 
a  rose  (No.  28);  then  four,  as  in  No.  29;  then  five,  with  a  sinnple 
plain  dot  in  the  center  (No.  30;.  Now,  with  the  plain  round  cone, 
make  No.  31,  adding  to  it,  for  top  finish,  No.  21;  next,  with  the 
same  cone,  make  the  stems  of  Nos.  32  and  33,  and  with  the  leaf 
cone  add  the  leaves.  Do  the  same  in  No.  34,  adding  a  ring  of  dots, 
also  a  ros?,  with  the  star  cone;  next,  with  the  same  plain  round 
cone,  do  No.  35f  by  giving  the  cone  a  wavy  motion;  also  No.  36, 
by  giving  the  cone  a  sudden  jerk,  first  to  the  left,  then  to  the  right, 
then  straight  down  the  middle,  as  shown  in  No.  37. 

This  appears  a  good  deal  on  paper,  but  is  really  nothing  when 
you  come  to  do  it,  as  it  can  all  be  done  on  the  board  at  one  lesson, 
and  two  or  three  lessons  should  sufiBce  to  give  you  a  good  insight, 
and  each  one  you  do  will  be  better  than  its  predecessor,  and  you 
will  surprise  yourself  at  the  ease  with  which  you  can  produce  and 
execute  a  design,  if  you  only  master  these  diagrams  first. 

Having  gone  this  far,  you  may  now  form  a  design  for  yourself 
by  making  whatever  combination  fancy  dictates,  from  the  scrolls, 
lines,  curves,  etc.,  shown  in   the  diagrams;   it  may  be  somewhat 
crude  at  first,  but  practice   will  perfect.     As  an  example,   which 
will  explain  the  whole,  I  will  instruct  you  how  to  make  a  simple 
combination,  and  thereby  produce  a  bunch  of  grapes.     First,  with 
the  leaf  cone  make  four  leaves  (No.  38),  and  with  the  plain  round 
cone  add  the  stem ;  also,  with  the  same  kind  of  cone,  only  cut  a  little 
larger,  to  make  a  larger  drop,  add  grapes  by  making  a  succession 
of  dots,  gradually  making  them  higher  in  the  middle  (No.  39)  ;  then 
n<  i\  finish,  with  the  plain  small  cone,  add  the  scroll  as  shown  run- 
ning over  the  grapes.     I  will  also  give  one  other  illustration.     To 
m  ike  a  large  leaf,  "in  imiUition  of  those  used  on  bride's  cake,  first 
mark  the  outline  of  the  leaf  (No.  40),  then  with  the  plain  round 
cone  run  the  cross  lines,  as  shown  in  No.  8,  also  in  No.  41 ;  then 
\vith  the  plain  round  cone  add  the  edge  in  dots,  as  shown  in  Nos.  20 
and  42.     To  illustrate  this  farther,  I  furnish  a  full  sketch  for  the 
top  of  a  wedding  or  other  cake  (page  353)  made  up  of  the  grapes  and 
leaves  I  have  described.     I  must  now  leave  you  to  the  study  and 


854 


ORNAMENTAL  ICINQ, 


practice  of  the  diagrams,  assuring  you  that  you  will  find  it  much 
more  simple  than  it  here  appears,  and  that  the  results  attained  at  eacb 
trial  will  be  such  as  to  stimulate  you  to  further  efforts  and  succesa. 
I  will  here  remark  that  you  can  do  heavy  and  light  work  with  the 
same  cone  by  adding  pressure ;  for  instance,  if  you  are  using  a  cone 
with  a  fine  point,  by  drawing  that  with  a  regular  motion  and  even 
pressure,  you  produce  a  line  of  sugar  the  same  size  as  the  hole 
through  which  it  comes;  but  if  you  draw  the  cone  along  slower  than 
the  sugar  comes  out,  you  will  readily  see  that  you  produce  a  heavier 
line ;  also,  if  you  wish  to  make  a  very  fine  line  with  the  same  cone» 
use  the  even  pressure,  but  draw  the  cone  along  very  fast;  you  have 
only  to  bear  in  mind  that  there  \a  a  limit  to  the  size,  and  when  you 
reach  that  to  press  harder  simply  means  to  burst  the  cone ;  when  the 
limit  is  reached,  if  you  want  a  larger  flow,  you  must  have  another 
cone  with  a  larger  opening  at  the  point     This  applies  to  all  shapes, 
whether  round,  star,  or  leaf.     The  cone  may  be  used  in  the  same 
manner  you  would  a  pen,  pressing  heavy  and  light ;  for  example, 
if  you  are  making  a  scroll,  like  No.  11,  with  a  fine  round  cone, 
when  you  come  to  the  bend  of  the  scroll,  by  giving  the  cone  a  little 
more  pressure  you  cause  more  sugar  to  flow,  thus  producing  the 
fullness  in  the  curve  (see  No.  11) ;  when  you  have  done  that  with* 
draw  the  pressure  and  continue  as  before. 

lERINOUE  ICINO 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  very  stifi*  firoth  (you  can  not  beat 
them  too  stifi*;  emd  if  they  are  not  stifl*  the  meringue  will  not  be 
good.)  While  beating,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  also  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar ;  when  well  beaten  up  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 
stir  it  very  lightly  in,  yet  be  careful  to  see  it  is  toM  stirred  in. 
This  being  ready,  take  the  pie  after  baking  (usually  a  lemon  pie), 
and  with  a  knife  spread  a  thin  coating  of  the  meringue  all  over  it; 
then  with  a  cone  (the  same  as  used  in  other  icing),  filled  with  the 
meringue  icing,  proceed  to  work  out  some  design.  When  finished  re* 
turn  it  to  the  oven  to  take  a  light  brown  color.  You  can  work  anj 
design  in  this  as  well  as  in  icing-sugar,  but  the  patterns  for  this  are 
larger,  consequently  are  done  with  a  cone  with  a  larger  portion  cut 
oS  the  point.  For  centers  of  meringue  pies  you  can  use  such  designi 


/ 


356 


ORNAMENTAL  ICINO. 


as  an  ear  of  corn,  an  anchor,  a  **  true  lover's  knot,"  a  Maltese 
a  bunch  of  grapes,  or  whatever  the  fancy  dictates;  you  can  further 
decorate  it  with  fruit  jelly  in  addition  to  the  meringue  piping,  put- 
ting on  the  jelly  with  a  cone,  and  in  the  same  manner  as  for  piping. 
Chocolate  is  not  used  on  meringue  work,  neither  is  the  meringue 
ever  colored  except  in  some  cases  when  it  is  colored  a  light  cream 
color  ;  pink  colored  sugar  is  sometimes  sprinkled  over  it.     To  color 
this  sugar,  simply  drop  a  little  cochineal  color  on  some  granulated 
ftugar,  and  rub  it   together  until   colored,  then  dry  it,  then  rub  it 
apart  and  keep  it  in  a  bottle  ready  for  use.    It  will  keep  its  color  for 
years.     I  give  one  design  (page  355)  for  the  top  of  a  meringue 
pie  just  as  a  guide. 

TO   MAKE  WATER  ICING. 

Take  any  quantity  of  powdered  sugar  you  require,  add  cold 
water  enough  to  it  to  form  a  thick  paste  (remember,  it  will  not  take 
much) ;  beat  well,  and  if  too  thin  so  that  it  runs  too  much,  add  a 
little  more  sugar.  To  every  pound  of  sugar,  add  as  much  cream 
of  tartar  as  will  lie  on  a  twenty-five  cent  piece  (a  level  teaspoon- 
ful) ;  when  this  icing  is  prepared,  spread  it  with  a  knife  over  the 
cake,  and  allow  it  to  dry ;  you  can  then  ornament  or  decorate  it 
with  icing  sugar  in  the  same  manner  as  for  a  bride's  cake,  or  use  a 
sweet  jelly,  such  as  **red  currant"  or  "quince." 

This  water  icing  may  also  be  colored  a  light  shade  of  pink  with 
"  cochmeal,"  or  a  light  cream  color  with  saffron.  For  a  mauve 
oolor,  add  a  drop  of  indigo  blue  to  the  pink  color ;  but  remember 
none  of  these  colors  must  be  heavy,  as  they  are  objectionable  and  m 
bad  taste.  Water  icing  is  used  for  tops  of  pound,  sponge,  and 
other  cakes,  also  for  tops  of  jeUy  cakes.  (See  design  for  jelly  cake, 
page  353.) 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Ask  any  confectioner  for  a  piece  of  **  Baker's  eagle  cocoa;  "  and 
if  you  can  not  procure  that,  ask  any  grocer  for  pure  cocoa  in  block, 
or  what  is  called  **  Baker's  premium  cocoa."  Place  what  you  need  of 
it  in  a  basin,  and  stand  the  basin  in  boiling  water  until  the  cocoa 
b  dissolved,  then  add  powdered  sugar  to  taste,  and  beat  it 
well  in;  add  also  the  whites  of  two  eggs  (whisked  up  a  little)  to 


ORNAMENTAL  ICING.  357 

every  pound  of  cocoa  used  (this  gives  a  gloss);  beat  the  sugar 
in  well  and  the  whites  of  eggs ;  now  with  a  knife  spread  the  cocoa 
(or  rather  the  chocolate  now  that  it  has  the  sugar  in  it,  for  choco- 
late issinaply  cocoa  sweetened)  evenly  on  the  cake;  be  as  quick  as 
possible  with  it,  for  as  soon  as  it  cools  it  gets  hard*  If  you  wish 
simple  cocoa  icing,  use  the  cocoa  and  whites  of  egg  only ;  but  if 
you  wish  sweet  or  chocolate  icing,  add  the  sugar.  To  help  you  a 
little  in  the  first  attempt,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  to  a 
pound  of  cocoa ;  this  will  keep  it  moist  and  liquid  a  little  longer, 
but  it  will  take  a  little  longer  to  harden. 

CREAM  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

What  is  known  as  cream  chocolate  icing  is  done  in  the  same  man- 
ner, using  half  cocoa  and  half  pure  cream,  and  sweetening  it  to 
taste.  In  this  case  use  no  whites  of  eggs,  but  simply  dissolve  the 
cocoa  as  before  described,  then  add  the  sugar,  and  afterwards  grad- 
ually add  and  well  stir  in  the  cream.  It  is  then  ready  for  use. 
Chocolate  icing  is  also  used  to  ice  jelly  cakes  and  other  small  cakes, 
also  chocolate -de-clares ;  it  may  also  be  used  as  an  icing  for  any 
thing,  and  can  be  piped,  ornamented,  or  decorated  with  icing  sugar 
in  the  same  manner  as  a  bride's  cake. 

Cocoa  may  also  be  mixed  with  sugar  icing ;  add  little  or  much 
cocoa  as  desired,  and  either  ice  a  cake  with  this  chocolate  icing  or 
use  it  for  piping  or  ornamenting  in  the  same  manner  as  icing  sugar 
}s  used. 

TO  ICE  OR  FROST  A  WEDDING  OR  ANY  FLAT  TOP  CAKE. 

When  the  cake  is  baked  and  cold,  cut  off  all  the  rough  parts  and 
brush  ofifall  crumbs ;  then  prepare  an  icing  *in  the  manner  described, 
but  in  this  case  for  first  icing  use  ordinary  *' powdered  sugar;"  give 
the  cake  a  thin  covering  with  this  icing,  simply  to  fill  up  the 
hollows,  so  that  the  second  coat  of  icing,  made  from  finer  sugar,  may 
rest  smoother  on  it.  If  in  a  hurry,  and  you  do  not  care  so  much 
about  the  appearance,  then  give  one  coat  of  icing  only.  In  that 
case  the  sugar  must  be  the  kind  I  have  mentioned  (the  finest).  When 
a  first  coat  is  used,  place  it  in  the  oven  or  in  some  warm  place  to 
dry,  before  adding  the  second  coat. 

^* Please  note  where  the  word  icing  or  ice  is  \Laed  it  means  frosting. 


358 


ORNAMENTAL  ICINQ. 


To  add  the  second  coat,  prepare  some  icing  in  the  manner  de- 
scribed, and  make  it  just  soil  enough  to  run  smoothly,  and  yet  not 
run  off  the  cake ;   better  to  be  a  little  too  stiff  than  too  thin.     To 
ice,  place  the  sugar  in  a  lump  in  the  center  of  the  cake,  And  let  it 
run  level  of  its  own  accord;  or  if  a  little  stiff,  spread  it  out  with  a 
knife,  taking  care  not  to  spread  it  quite  to  the  edge  of  the  cake 
(within  a  quarter  of  an  inch),  as  it  will  run  to  the  edge  of  itself:  if  it 
is  not  fully  smooth,  place  a  knife  under  the  cake  and  shake  it  a 
little,  that  will  cause  all  the  rough  parts  to  become  smooth.     Next, 
if  you  desire  to  ice  the  sides  of  the  cake,  add  a  little  more  sugar  to 
the  icing,  and  beat  it  well  in ;  then  with  your  knife  place  it  on  the 
sides  of  the  cake  until  it  is  fully  covered ;  then  by  holding  the  kni& 
perpendicular,  with  the  edge  to  the  icing,  and  the  back  leaning  a 
little  towards  the  icing,  draw  it  all  round  the  side  of  the  cake ; 
when  it  comes  round  to  where  you  started  from,  suddenly  give  the 
knife  a  twist,  and  turn  the  back  from  the  icing,  and  at  the  same 
time  and  by  the  same  motion,  remove  the  edge  from  contact  with 
the  icing.     If  you  do  this  neatly  and  quickly  you  will  hardly  be  able . 
to  find  the  place  where  you  left  off.     You  may  not  succeed  either  in 
icing  the  cake  or  putting  on  a  smooth  side  the  first  time,  but  prac- 
tice will  perfect ;  and  if  you  note  wherein  you  &iled  at  first,  and 
avoid  it  the  next  time,  you  will  soon  succeed.     The  cake  now  needa 
only  to  be  dried,  and  it  is  ready  for  ornamenting. 

To  ornament  or  decorate  it,  prepare  some  icing  in  the  manner 
described,  but  make  it  stiff  enough  to  retain  its  shape,  or  at  least  aa 
that  it  will  not  run  smooth  like  the  icing  on  the  cake.  This  is  to 
be  done  by  the  addition  of  a  little  more  sugar  (a  teaspoonful  per- 
haps), also  a  little  extra  beating;  when  the  icing  is  ready  lightly 
mark  out  the  design  on  the  cake ;  then  fold  up  a  piece  of  paper  in 
t  lie  form  of  a  cone,  and  secure  the  joint  with  white  of  egg  or  mucil- 
age, and  cut  off  the  point  to  form  just  what  size  hole  you  choose. 
Now  fill  the  cone  three-fourths  full  with  icing,  and  fold  down  the 
end ;  place  cone  in  left  hand  to  guide  it,  and  with  the  thumb  of  the 
right  hand  placed  on  the  folded  part  of  the  cone,  force  out  the  sugar 
in  lines  or  dots  to  follow  out  the  design  on  the  cake. 

Those  wishing  further  instructions  in  ornamenting  «r^  '^^opectfully 
referred  to  article  on  Artistic  Piping  (with  dii>gnrin/»). 


ORNAMENTAL  ICING.  359 

TO  PREPARE  ICING  FOR   BRIDE   OR   OTHER  CAKES. 

Procure  a  clean  china  bowl  with  a  round  (not  square)  bottom  in- 
side ;   break  into  it  the  whites  of  three   eggs,  add   about  half  a 
pound  of  the  finest  powdered  sugar  obtainable  (ask  a  confectioner 
for  icing  sugar,  if  that  is  not  obtainable  procure  **  lozenge  sugar; ") 
now  with  a  wooden  spatula,  (which  is  made  of  a  piece  of  wood  about 
ten  inches  long  and  one  and  one-half  inches  wide  at  the  thick  end, 
and  gradually  tapering  off  to  fit  the  hand,  and  not  more  than  half  an 
inch  thick  at  the  thick  end.     See  diagram  No.  40.     I  recommend 
wood  because  it  is  really  better  in  every  respect  than  any  metal  in- 
stniment  for  the  purpose,  and  once    made  will  last   a  life  time) 
beat  the  sugar  and  whites  vigorously  until  it   begins  to  thicken, 
then  add  as  much  cream  of  tartar  as  will  lay  on  a  ten-cent  piece, 
and  one  (not  more  than  two)  drop  of  indigo  blue ;  now  add  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  more  sugar,  and  continue  beating;  continue 
beating  and  adding  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  until  the  icing 
is  as  thick  as  you  wish  it,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.     Be  careful  m>t  to 
get  any  of  the  yolk  of  the  eggs  in,  or  you  can  not  beat  the  icing  up. 
Be  careful  that  the  bowl,   spatula,  and  all  the  implements  used 
are  perfectly  free  from  grease.     Remember  to  beat  well,  and  not 
attempt  to  get  the  icing  thick  by  the  addition  of  sugar  alone,  or 
it  will  run.     Good  icing  depends    up<m  good  beating  as  well  as 
sugar ;  three  whites  and  one  pound  of  sugar  is  about  the  propor- 
tion. 

EXPLANATION   OP  DESIGNS   FOR  BRIDE   OR  OTHER  CAKES. 

A  reference  to  the  design  for  bride  cake  top  No.  1  (page  369) 
will  show  that  it  is  a  combination  of  the  scrolls,  etc.,  given  in  the 
diagrams  for  artistic  piping,  and  is  not  given  as  a  design  or  a  work 
of  art,  but  is  simply  arranged  (as  I  direct  in  my  explanation  of 
diagrams)  to  show  how  those  scrolls,  etc.,  can  be  connected  and 
arranged  so  as  to  form  a  design.  After  you  have  made  this  one, 
you  will  be  surprised  how  easy  a  task  it  will  be  to  do  a  second. 
Please  note  that  this  design  is  made  up  of  Nos.  36,  20,  13,  18,  6, 
8,  and  21  of  the  diagrams ;  also  note  that  I  have  given  two  leaves 
of  one  pattern  and  two  of  another.  When  you  pipe  cake  make  all 
four  leaves  of  the  same  pattern,  choosing  which  you  prefer.    I  have 


360 


ORNAMENTAL  ICINO, 


given  two  simply  to  illustrate  the  diagrams,  or  I  would  have 
sketched  them  all  alike.  I  also  give  a  sketch  for  the  side  of  the 
cake  if  you  wish  to  pipe  the  side.  This  you  will  note  is  No.  17 
in  the  diagrams,  and  the  bott<jm  is  finished  off  with  simple,  plain 
round  dots  (No.  2  in  diagrams^,  but  all  of  one  size. 

My  sketch  for  bride's  cake  top  No.  2  (page  361)  is  more  correct  as 
a  design,  and  is  to  l)e  done  after  you  have  practiced  on  No.  1  de- 
sign.   I  will  not  refer  you  to  the  diagrams  for  this  design,  but  ask  you 
to  pick  out  what  numliers  of  the  diagrams  are  used  in  making  up 
this  dasign,  as  by  so  doing  it  will  fix  it  in  your  memory.     These  de- 
signs will  answer  for  the  top  of  any  cake  as  well  as  for  bride's  cake; 
if  you  use  them  for  bride's  cake,  use  nothing  but  w^hite  icing,  also 
white  piping,  and  in  the  center  where  I  have  marked  (**for  vase  ") 
insert  a  vase,  or  bouquet,  or  spray  of  flowers,  as  you  see  fit.     The 
addition  of  a  few  sugar  ro^^es  and  silver  leaves  (procurable  at  all 
confectioners)  will  add  to  the  eftect.     It  is  also  necessary  to  place 
the  cake  on  a  lace  paper,  particularly  if  a  bride's  or  wedding  cake; 
and  if  on  a  silver  or  plated  salver,  so  much  the  better. 

It  is  not  imperative  that  you  a«e  orange  blossouLs  in  the  decora- 
tion of  bride's  cake,  still  it  is  usually  done.  It  is  also  admissible  to 
use  (very  sparingly)  pink  roses  or  other  flowers,  or  even  yellow 
to  match  with  the  orange  blossoms  or  in  place  of  them  ;  but  rather 
than  use  too  much  or  too  many,  use  none.  If  you  do  not  wish  to 
pipe  the  side  of  a  bride's  cake,  place  a  silver  band  round  it.  You 
can  procure  the  band  of  any  respectable  confectioner  or  caterer. 


DESSERT   CAKE. 

A  dessert  cake  (proper)  consists  of  either  a  pound  or  sponge  cake 
mixture  baked  in  a  high  mold  ;  if  you  have  no  other  use,  an  ice 
cream  mold  as  represented  in  the  sketch.  Well  clean  and  fully 
dry  your  mold,  then  w^arm  it  and  butter  it  with  butter  by  the  aid 
of  a  brush  (by  warming  it  the  butter  goes  in  all  parts);  when 
buttered  turn  it  ])ottom  up  to  drain  out  all  excess  of  butter;  when 
drained  dust  it  out  with  sifted  flour,  give  it  a  knock  to  remove  any 
excess  of  flour;  it  is  now  ready;  now  place  it,  small  end  down,  in  a 
tin  or  something  which  will  prevent  its  tailing  over;  now  flll  it  three- 
fourths  full  with  the  cake  mixture  and  bake  in  a  steady  heat;  when 


^ 


362 


ORNAMENTAL  ICING. 


baked  remove  it  from  the  mold.  When  cold,  if  to  be  ornamented, 
have  ready  prepared  some  icing  (see  **  icing")  thin  enough  to  just  run 
smooth  but  not  to  run  off.  Place  the  cake  on  a  plate,  and  with  a 
spoon  place  the  icing  on  the  top  of  the  cake,  and  allow  it  to  run 
down  the  sides ;  continue  this  until  all  parts  are  covered ;  let  it  drain 
down  a  minute  or  so,  then  place  a  knife  under  the  bottom  of  the 
cake,  remove  *it  to  another  plate,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry.  This  method  of  icing  shows  up  the  pattern  of  the  cake,  and 
the  prettier  the  mold  the  prettier  pattern  of  cake  you  will  have. 
To  ornament  this  cake,  simply  pipe  it  (as  before  described),  allow- 
ing the  pattern  of  the  cake  to  be  the  guide ;  if  you  come  to  any 
part  where  there  is  no  pattern,  then  ornament  it  as  you  fancy,  but 
usually  the  pattern  of  the  cake  will  furnish  the  design.  In  an  ice- 
cream mold  there  is  not  much  pattern  further  than  fluting.  I  give  a 
sketch  of  one  baked  in  a  pyramid  ice-cream  mold,  (page  353,)  to- 
gether with  some  idea  as  to  how  you  are  to  ornament  it.  Where  the 
dots  appear,  you  can  substitute  red  and  yellow  gum  drops  if  you  so 
desire.  When  you  have  piped  this  cake  set  it  on  a  plate  or  sal- 
ver on  lace  paper,  place  a  bouquet  or  spray  of  flowers  on  top  (see 
sketch),  add  a  few  silver  leaves  where  you  see  fit,  and  it  is  complete. 
This  cake  looks  very  pretty  iced  a  light  pink  and  piped  in  white; 
you  can  not  well  use  chocolate  ice  for  this  cake  (as  the  chocolate  sets 
too  soon),  unless  you  are  pretty  well  accustomed  to  chocolate  icing. 

DESSERT  RUSSE. 

This  may  be  made  of  either  sponge  or  pound-cake  mixture,  and 
baked  in  a  ^cy  mold,  If  the  prescribed  mold  is  not  available,  an 
ordinary  two  quart  ice-cream  mold  would  answer  the  purpose  pretty 
well.  After  being  baked  and  allowed  to  completely  cool,  the  cake 
should  be  iced  with  thin  icing,  either  pink  or  white,  and  piped  in 
contrasting  colors.  Thus,  if  iced  white,  it  should  be  piped  pink, 
and  mce  vefna.  Further  ornamentation  can  be  made  by  a  proper  dis- 
tribution of  pastilles,  crystallized  fruits,  etc.,  and  the  whole  sur- 
mounted by  a  small  spray  or  bouquet  of  flowers. 

Another  way  of  making  it  is  by  use  of  stale  cake.  If  you  have 
stale  sponge  or  pound-cake,  first  cut  from  it  the  base  with  a  sharp 
knife  (see  figure  1,  page  355) ;  then  the  piece  as  per  figure  2,  then 
the  piece  as  per  figure  3.  Place  the  three,  one  above  the  other, 
then  ice  and  ornament  it. 


Chantilly  Custard. 


364 


ORNAMENTAL  ICING. 


Either  of  the  foregoing  cakes  are  left  as  they  come  from  the 
mold,  or  in  the  shape  they  are  cut  with  the  knife.  The  pieces, 
numbered  4,  5,  6,  7,  and  8,  added,  being  only  for  the  russe. 

For  the  russe,  produce  the  cake  by  either  of  the  alx)ve  methods, 
remembering  to  have  as  large  a  hole  in  it  as  circumstances  will 
allow,   (see  dotted  line  in  Nos.  1,  2,  and  3,)  this,  of  course,  is  filled 
with  cream ;  then  piece  No.  3  is  added  and  secured.     Next  take  a 
thin  piece  of  cake,  not  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness, 
and  cut  out  the  pieces  as  per  Nos.  4,  5,  6,  7,  and  8,  and  set  them 
aside  for  future  use.    Next,  take  a  pallet-knife,  and  cover  the  whole 
russe  with  red  or  some  other  colored  jelly.    This  done,  place  on  the 
pieces  Nos.  4,  5,  6,  7,  and  8,  in  their  respective  places  (the  jellj 
will  hold  them).     Leave  the  cut  part  outside,  so  that  none  of  the 
baked   parts  will  show,  and  the  desired  effect  is  produced.     The 
pieces  being  in  their  places,  you  next  pipe  and  otherwise  ornament ; 
finish  the  whole  by  the  addition  of  a  spray  or  bouquet  of  flowers  on 
the  top,  or  with  a  bouquet  of  leaves,  piped  on  with  a  leaf  tube. 
Another  way  to  make  it,  is  to  cut  the  base  out  of  a  solid  piece  of 
cake  ;  make  the  hole  and  fill  it  with  cream  ;  lay  on  that  a  thin  piece 
of  cake.     Then  with  a  cone  and  tube  pile  up  the  cream  in  pyra- 
mid shape.     Have  ready  six  strips  cut  the  proper  shape,  i,  e.,  the 
same  width  at  the  bottom  as  one  of  the  six  sections  of  the  base, 
and  gradually  tapering  to  the  top.    Place  these  pieces  in  their  proper 
position,  fasten  them  with  a  little  icing,  cover  the  whole  with  jelly, 
as  in  the  other  case,  or  leave  plain,  as  you  choose.     In  either  case 
pipe  and  otherwise  ornament  it.     If  preferable,  you  can  place  the 
strips  to  form  piece  No.  3,  securing  them  'i^ith  icing ;  then  force 
cream  through  the  opening  on  the  top.     By  this  means  you  get  that 
part  better  filled  with  cream  than  by  any  other  means. 


THE  CHANTILLY  CUSTARD. 

The  plates  from  1  to  4,  inclusive,  show  the  manner  of  making 
the  Gatian  for  the  custard,  which  is  thus  described :  First,  procure 
a  mold  for  sponge-cake  or  jelly,  about  one  quart  or  three  pints  size, 
with  a  fancy  fi^it  or  flower  top  (see  plate  No.  1).  Bake  in  thb  a 
cake  or  sponge  mixture  (or  plain  pound  mixture,  if  you  prefer  it), 
and  when  bi^ed  and  cold — ^it  is  all  the  better  if  kept  for  a  day  or 


ORNAMENTAL  ICING.  365 

two — cut  off  the  top  (see  figures  2  and  3),  and  ice  it  with  thin, 
white  icing.  When  thoroughly  dry,  lightly  color  the  different  fruits 
or  flowers  with  their  natural  colors.  Do  not  lay  on  the  colors  too 
heavily,  or  they  will  spoil  the  eflect 

Next  cut  out  the  center  of  the  cake  (see  figure  4),  and  fill  the 
cavity  thus  made  with  a  boiled  custard,  adding  chopped  almonds  to 
the  custard  according  to  taste.  When  the  custard  is  set  and  cold 
replace  the  top  (as  in  figure  3),  and  pipe  the  outside  of  the  cake  in 
any  way  you  may  choose,  following  the  design  here  given,  or  se- 
lecting from  the  design  ibr  dessert  cake,  or  from  page  of  diagrams. 

The  light  and  dark  balls  at  the  bottom  of  the  present  design  are 
intended  to  represent  pink  and  yellow  pastilles  placed  alternately 
(see  figure  6).  But  a  much  easier,  cheaper,  handier,  and  more  effect- 
ive mode  of  adding  these  balls,  which  is  simply  to  stick  on  gum- 
■drops  of  Ihe  alternate  colors.  If  you  can  procure  a  good,  clear 
white  gumdrop,  then  use  the  three  colors  alternately — red,  yellow, 
white — and  the  effect  is  capital. 

The  beauty  of  such  a  piece  of  work,  amply  repays  any  lady 
who  has  the  time  and  taste,  for  the  trouble  of  mastering  the  ac- 
<x>mplishment,  and  for  the  small  cost  of  material.  The  cost  of  the 
latter,  when  compared  with  the  prices  which  would  be  charged  by 
a  professional  caterer  for  a  similar  piece  of  work,  is  very  small. 

RAISED   PIE. 

We  here  present  an  original  design,  composed  of  five  distinct 
plates,  arranged  and  numbered  for  practical  use.  The  illustration 
(page  367)  represents  a  raised  pie.  It  may  be  filled  to  suit  the 
taste  with  either  meats  or  game. 

Figure  1  shows  the  pie  complete,  with  top  of  savory  or  aspic 
jelly,  surmounted  by  a  butter  lamb  on  a  chopped  parsley  bed,  and 
piped  in  butter.  Cornucopias  on  each  corner  are  filled  with  roi>t 
flowers,  making  a  horn  of  plenty. 

The  directions  are  as  follows :  Prepare  the  dough  as  usual  for 
raised  pie,  and  then  determine  the  size.  Next  cut  the  base — not 
less  than  one-half  inch  in  thickness — as  per  figure  2.  Dock  with  a 
Ibrk  to  prevent   blistering,  and  lay  aside  on   the  pan  ready  for 


866  ORNAMENTAL  IdNQ. 

baking.  Then  prepare  the  oval  bottom,  as  per  figure  3,  wash 
over  with  egg,  and  place  evenly  on  center  of  the  base.  Now  roU 
out  dough,  half  an  inch  thick,  in  a  narrow  strip,  long  enough  to  go 
all  round  the  oval  bottom  (measure  outside  of  oval  by  passing  a 
string  around  it);  cut  it  straight  and  even,  one  inch  wide.  Wet 
the  ends,  which  should  be  cut  slantiug  to  make  them  fit  closely,  and 
the  lower  edge,  and  wrap  this  around  the  oval  piece  which  lies  on 
the  base,  joining  ends  and  bottom  edge  securely.  The  edge  of  the 
strip  will  rest  on  the  base,  with  the  oval  piece  inside.  Now  fill 
this  case  to  within  half  an  inch  of  the  top  with  bran,  place  over  it 
a  thin  cover  of  dough  (with  a  small  hole  in  the  center) ;  wash  the 
outside  (except  the  top,  which  only  serves  to  keep  the  side  in  place, 
and  is  not  used)  with  egg,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it 
takes  on  a  fine  chestnut  brown.  While  cold,  cut  out  top,  turn  out 
bran,  and  the  shell  is  ready  for  filling.  It  is  better  to  make  the 
shell  the  day  before  using,  so  as  to  fill  it  at  leisure.  To  make 
the  cornucopias,  fold  up  the  dough  the  same  as  you  would  in 
making  a  paper  cone,  and  also  fill  with  bran.  Bake  them  sepa 
lately  from  the  pie.  Now  fill  shell  with  meat  or  game,  and  next 
place  the  savory  jelly  (which  should  be  ready  cut  in  pieces 
one-half  inch  square)  on  the  top,  as  per  figure  6.  Now  mold 
a  butter  lamb  and  place  on  top  of  jeUy,  as  per  figure  7.  Add 
the  chopped  parsley,  as  per  figure  8;  also  place  the  cornucopia 
in  position.  Place  the  cut  roots  (see  figure  4)  one  in  each  cor- 
nucopia (see  figure  9);  place  a  rim  of  sliced  lemon  on  the  top 
edge,  as  shown  in  figure  1,  and  add  the  small  cut  root  flowers 
at  base  of  the  cornucopias,  securing  them  with  butter.  Pipe  the 
pie  any  design  you  choose,  or,  as  in  the  design,  using  butter  instead 
of  sugar.  A  little  parsley  under  each  cut  root  flower  on  the  com* 
ucopias  adds  to  the  effect.  Soften  the  butter  by  working  it  with  a 
knife,  not  warming,  adding  a  little  yolk  of  egg  to  bring  it  to  the 
required  softness,  and  a  little  flour  to  toughen  it.  Figure  5  shows 
one  of  the  cornucopias  before  it  is  placed  on  the  shell.  Serve  cold, 
with  a  salad,  on  a  large  napkin,  with  a  little  parsley  around  it, 
The  meat  used  for  filling  should  always  be  cold.  It  is  a  summer 
dish,  and  looks  well  on  the  table. 

The  special  directions  for  making  the  crust  for  raised  pie  are  as 


368  ORNAMENTAL  ICING, 

follows :  Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  for  every  pound  of  flour, 
Bdd  half  a  pint  of  water,  also  a  pinch  of  salt;  to  make  it,  add   the 
]ard  to  the  water,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  then  add  it  to  the  flour  and 
mix  as  quickly  as  possible;  when  mixed  wrap  it  up  in  a  cloth  to 
keep  warm.     Make  into  the  shape  or  shapes  selected  as  quickly  as 
possible,  as  when  it  gets  cold  it  hardens;  when  cold  it  will  i-etain 
any  shape  given  it  while  warm.     You  can  use  pie-molds,  in  which 
case  simply  line  the  mold  with  tlie  paste,  when  the  pie  is  made  it 
is  well  to  allow  it  to  stand  all  night  if  possible,  to  get  fully  flxed 
before  baking.     Before  adding  any  leaves  or  other  paste  decora- 
tions wash  it  with  yolk  of  eggs,  then  add  the  paste  leaves,  and  do 
not  wash    them.      The  pie  will    then   bake  a  rich   brown,    while 
the  leaves  remain  a  pale  color,  giving  a  pretty  efiect. 

A  very  nice  meat  for  filling  is  made  as  follows :  Bone  two  calves' 
feet;  chop  fine  boiled  chitterlings;  cut  up  and  stew  over  a  gentle 
fire  for  an  hour  two  chickens,  and  two  sweet  breads,  in  a  quart  of 
veal  gravy;  season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  then  add  six  or 
eight  force-meat  balls   (that  have  been  boiled);  four  boiled  eggs 
quartered;  and,  when  stewed  enough,  let  stand  until  nearly  cold, 
and  place  it  in  pie,  cover  with  aspic  jelly,  and  ornament  as  above 
directed.     In  case  you  do  not  wish   to  use  the  butter-lamb  and 
aspic  jelly,  afber  filling  in  meat,  place  four  quarters  of  a  hard- 
boiled  egg  at  equal  distances  apart  on  the  top  of  the  meat,  and 
strew  a  few  cold  green  peas  or  asparagus  tops  on  it.     This  gives  a 
pretty  effect,  and  saves  the  trouble  of  making  the  aspic  jelly.     The 
shell  may  be  filled  with  any  cooked  cold  meat.     Rabbits  make  a 
nice  filling,  stewed  with  a  nice  cut  or  two  of  ham  or  salt  pork. 
Make  a  force-meat  out  of  the  livers  beaten  in  a  mortar  until  fine, 
adding  freelyof  pepper  and- salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  few  sweet 
herbs.      Partridges,  or  any  game  birds,  may  be  used,  bearing  in 
mmd  that  the  pie  is  always  to  be  served  cold. 

TO   ORNAMENT   A   JELLY   CAKE. 

Trim  off  the  edge  of  the  jelly  cake,  then  give  it  a  thin  coating  of 
water  icing  (see  water  icing) ;  next  have  a  cone  of  white  icing  ready. 
To  the  more  fully  illustrate  this,  I  will  request  you  to  follow  out 
the  pattern  in  my  design  (Page  353).     After  you  have  made  that 


PASTRY,  369 

one,  you  can  do  any  other  you  choose,  as  that  one  explains  the 
whole.      Now  with  the  cone  of  white  (or  pink  sugar,  if  you  prefer 
it),  pipe  on  the  white  lines  in  the  sketch  (see  sketch) ;  now  fill  in 
between  these  lines  with  fruit  jelly  (use  a  cone  filled  with  jelly  for 
this  purpose) ;  next,  with  the  leaf  cone,  pipe  on  the  leaves  for  the 
grapes  (as  described  in  diagrams  for  Artistic  Piping,  No.  38) ;  then 
with  a  plain  round  cone  pipe  on  the  grapes,  as  described  in  No.  39, 
in  diagrams.     (See  diagrams.     The  edge  is  simple  plain  dots  of 
white  sugiir.     See  diagram  No.  2.)     I  would  here  remark,  if  you 
so  wish  it  you  can  pipe  on  the  bunch  of  grajies  with  fruit  jelly  in- 
stead of  sugar.     You  can  also  use  chocolate  ice  instead  of  water 
ice  for  the  top.     Then  pipe  it  in  sugar  and  jelly  as  before,  or  ice  it 
with  jelly  instead  of  either  chocolate  or  water  icing.     In  that  case, 
where  before  you  used  jelly  between  the  white  lines  of  sugar,  now 
use  chocolate  or  pink  icing.     Or  if  you  wish,  you  can  dispense  with 
the  top  icing  of  either  jelly,  chocolate,  or  water  icing,  and  simply 
work  out  the  design  as  shown  in  the  white  piping  and  jelly.     But 
the  foregoing  is  the  most  artistic;  and  I  would  here  remark  that 
what  I  give  here  is  given  simply  for  the  instruction  of  those  who 
w^ish  to  do  artistic  work ;  to  others  the  instructions  will  be  valueless. 
But  my  experience  teaches  me  that  most  ladias  have  a  taste  for  the 
ornamental,  and  wish  to  show  it  in  this  particular,  as  well  as  in 
others.     And  what  would  apix?ar  difficult  to  others  will  be  easy  to 
them ;  and  I  promise  them  they  will  be  rewarded  for  their  pams 
when  they  see  how  successful  they  are. 

Pastry. 

Under  the  head  of  pastry  is  embraced  crusts  or  covering?  for  meat 
pies.  Pastry  made  from  butter,  and-  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
fruit  pies,  patties,  etc.,  is  too  li<2:ht,  brittle  and  gross  for  meat  pics; 
also  too  expensive.  Paste  made  for  domestic  use,  of  lard,  is  also 
open  to  many  objections,  among  which  may  be  mentioned  its  ten- 
dency to  grow  soft  and  flabby :  also  its  cold,  sodden  nature,  which 
renders  it  extremely  unpleavsant  to  the  teeth,  also  unpleasant  to  the 
palate ;  it  also  has  a  tendency  to  lie  heavily  and  cold  on  the  stom- 
ach, and  is  altogether  undesirable  as  an   ingredient  in  the  man« 

u&cture  of  pastry.     Neither  is  it  any  cheaper  than  suet,  and  much 
24 


870  PASTRY. 

more  difficult  to  manu&cture  into  good  looking  pastry,  and  impossi' 
ble  to  make  into  good  eating  pastry.  For  as  pastry  for  meat  pies, 
patties,  mince  pies,  etc.,  nothiug  better  than  suet  can  possibly  be 
found.  It  is  a  little  troublesome  to  those  who  have  not  been  accus- 
tomed to  its  use,  but  if  you  follow  my  instructions  faithfully  you 
will  succeed  better  than  you  expect,  and  will,  I  think,  be  reim* 
bui-sed  for  your  trouble,  and  have  a  pastry  which  will  give  satisfac- 
tion and  credit  to  you  as  the  maker. 

TO   USE  SUET. 

Allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet  for  every  pound  of 
flour;  in  this  case  adding  a  little  salt  to  the  water  you  mix  the 
flour  with.     First  take  the  suet,  divest  it  of  all  loose  skin  and 
blood  spots,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  shred  it  in  as  fine  slices  as 
possible,  then  place  it  in  some  place  where  it  will  just  feel  the  heat, 
nothiug  more  (it  must  not  be  any  thing  like  melted).     While  this 
is  softening  mix  the  dough;  when  mixed  roll  out  in  a  sheet,  the 
same  as  for  best  pastry,  then  lay  on  the  suet  to  cover  the  dough, 
then  fold  and  roll  the  same  as  for  best  pastry.     (See  instructions 
for  puff  pastry.)     This  paste  will  require  a  few  more  foldings  and 
rollings  than  as  if  made  with  butter.     When  it  is  rolled  enough, 
proceed   to  cover  the  pie  dish  as  you  woiild  with  other  pastry; 
also  for  patties,  mince  pies,  etc.,  use  and  work  it  off  precisely  as 
you  would  for  puff  pastry.     If  you  were  (after  shredding  the  suet) 
to  beat  it  soft  with  the  rolling-pin  on  the  board,  you  could  roll  out 
the  paste  with  more  ease,  and  it  would  not  take  more  than  five 
minutes. 

A  very  fine  butter,  called  "  French  butter,"  for  making  an  extra 
short  yet  flaky  pastry,  is  made  as  follows :  Take  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  beet  suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  butter,  and  the 
yolk  of  two  eggs,  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt;  remove  the  skin  and 
blood  spots  ftt^m  the  suet,  place  it  in  a  mortar,  pound  it  soft,  then 
add  the  butter  and  salt,  pound  that  well  in,  then  add  the  eggs,  work 
the  whole  into  a  smooth  mass,  then  use  it  in  the  same  quantity  luid 
in  the  same  manner  as  for  puff  pastry. 

This  suet  crust  rolled  half  an  inch  thick,  and  then  into  cakes  with 
a  cutter,  say  two  inches  in  diameter,  then  washed  with  eggs  and  a 


PASTRY.  371 

few  cuts  given  across  the  top  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  baked  a  nice 
rich  brown  in  a  middling  hot  even,  makes  a  delicious  article  for  the 
tea-table.     It  is  not  as  gross  as  pufT  paste. 

I  give  here  the  best  method  of  making  a  few  of  the  hundred  and 
one  articles  to  be  produced  with  puff  and  short  pastry,  etc.  The 
Allowing  is  the  most  simple  and  best  method  of  making  short  paste. 

SHORT  PASTE. 

Take  one  pound  sifted  flour,  place  it  in  a  bowl,  add  to  it  half  a 
pound  good  butter.  Break  the  butter  up  very  fine  in  the  flour, 
adding  a  little  salt  (according  to  the  saltness  of  the  butter) ;  now 
add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream'  of 
tartar  dissolved  in  it  (this  is  to  toughen  it),  then  mix  it  into  an 
easy  dough,  adding  more  water,  if  required.  When  mixed,  work 
well  together,  and  place  it  near  by  ready  for  use.  Keep  it  covered 
with  a  damp  cloth,  or  between  two  plates,  and  in  a  cool  place. 
Short  paste  is  very  useful  from  the  fact  that  it  b  easy  to  make, 
and  can  be  kept  in  better  shape,  where  the  shape  of  the  article  you 
wish  to  make  is  an  object  It  is  also  better  adapted  for  lining  the 
bottom  of  paste  pans,  dishes,  etc.,  as  it  is  firmer  than  puff  paste. 
Consequently  it  holds  together,  and  when  you  wish  to  make  a  great 
deal  of  pastry,  it  is  well  to  make  a  little  short  paste  for  that  pur- 
pose, using  the  short  paste  for  all  lining  or  bottom  work,  and  the 
puff  paste  for  all  top  work.  In  using  puff  paste,  when  you  have 
not  made  any  short  paste,  cut  out  all  of  the  tops  first,  then  take 
the  scraps  and  roll  them,  using  them  for  lining  and  bottoms. 

Now  suppose  we  wish  to  make  a  few  open  tarts. 

OPEN  TARTS. 

Take  the  puff  paste,  after  it  has  received  its  last  rolling,  roll  out 
evenly  in  a  sheet  one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  thickness  (you  need  not 
roll  out  the  whole  of  the  paste,  but  cut  off  a  piece  sufficient  to  make 
the  number  of  tarts  you  wish,  and  roll  them  out).  The  sheet  being 
ready,  cut  the  number  you  require  with  a  scalloped  round  cutter, 
about  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter.  Place  them  on  the 
baking  pans,  having  turned  them  over,  bringing  the  bottom  on  the 
top.     N^t  wash  them  with  ^g,  or  egg  and  water,  then  with  a 


372  '  PASTRY. 

flmall,  plain  rouiid  cutter,  one  inch  in  diameter,  make  a  mark  in 
the  center  of  each,  pressing  the  cutter  half  through.      Then  just 
**  dock "  each  in  the  center  with  the  point  of  a  knife  or  a  fork  (this 
is  to  prevent  their  blistering),  now  bake  them.     You  will  then  find 
that  the  part  marked  with   the  small,  round  cutter  has  detached 
itself  from  the  other  part ;  this  you  remove  with  a  penknife  or  a 
fork,  and  a  hole  will  be  left,  into  which  pour  what  jam  or  jelly 
you  intend  using.     This  plan  is  far  preferable  for  making  the  hole 
to  receive  the  jelly  than  to  place,  as  some  recommend,  sliced  potatoes 
or  small  yieces  of  wood  in  the  center,  removing  them  when  baked. 
These  certainly  form  the  hole,  but  their  weight  keeps  down   the 
pastry,  and  consequently  it  is  not  so  light.      By  the  plan  I  have 
given  you  obtain  a  good  hole  for  the  jelly  without  injuring  the 
lightness  of  the  pastry.     Some  add  their  jelly  before  baking,  but 
that  is  wrong,  as  in  baking  the  heat  causes  the  jelly  to  boil,  and 
it  spreads  itself  over  the  tart  and  spoils  its  appearance. 

OYSTER  PATE    (A   LA   PYRAMID). 

Take  a  piece  of  short  paste,  or  scraps  of  puff  paste,  roll  it  out 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  out  the  number  of  pieces  you 
require  with  the  same  cutter  as  for  open  tarts,  place  them  in  baking 
pan  and  "dock"  them  with  a  fork.  Now  cut  a  like  number  with 
the  same  cutter,  and  of  the  same  thickness,  but  from  the  best  puff 
paste,  wash  those  cut  from  the  scraps,  or  short  paste,  and  place 
those  cut  from  the  puff  paste  on  them,  wash  with  egg,  and  "  dock  " 
them  in  the  middle.  Next  cut  a  like  number,  same  thickness,  with 
the  same  cutter,  and  from  puff  paste,  cut  the  middle  right  out  of 
these  with  a  plain  round  cutter,  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter, 
place  these  rings  on  the  other  parts.  These  are  now  ready  to 
bake.  While  they  are  baking  take  the  piece  that  comes  from  the 
middle  of  the  ring  piece  and  roll  it  out  a  little  larger,  then  cut 
three  other  pieces  with  a  scalloped  round  cutter,  each  a  size  smaller 
than  the  others ;  place  them  on  baking  pans,  **  dock"  them,  wash 
with  eggy  and  bake  them.  When  these  parts  are  all  baked,  if 
the  hole  is  not  deep  enough  for  the  purpose,  you  can,  with  a 
knife,  remove  some  of  the  pastry  inside  the  ring.  To  serve  these 
you  fill  the  case,  or  part  with  the  hole,  with  chopped  oysters,  pre- 


PASTRY.  373 

pared  in  white  butter  sauce,  and  then  add  the  other  pieces,  beginning 
with  the  largest  and  finishing  with  the  smallest.  You  will  then 
have  a  pyniinid  about  six  inches  high.  Place  small  sprigs  of 
parsley  between  the  part  containing  the  oysters  and  the  others, 
also  a  piece  of  parsley  on  each,  then  dish  them  and  serve.  These 
cases  will  serve  for  oysters,  lobsters,  or  chicken.  I  would  here  re- 
mark that  oyster  and  other  pate^  can  be  made  more  simply  than  th(» 

above,  but  my  idea  is  not  to  attempt  to  teach  what  I  presume  \  - 
already  known,  but  to  furnish  you  with  some  ideas  which  you  may 

use  with  advantage  w^hen  you  wish  to  place  something  more  elal)- 

rate  before  your  special  guests  than  ordinarily.     A  vol  au  vent  is 

made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  the  above  oyster  pedes,  but 

from  eight  to  twelve  times  larger,  and  generally  oval  in  shape.     It 

is  usually  filled  with  cold  fricassee  of  fowl  or  chicken.     The  fripassee 

for  a  vol  au  vent  must  be  good  and  well-jellied.     Before  serving  a 

vol  au  vent,  place  it  on  an  oval  dish  and  garnish  it  tastefully  with 

aspic  jelly,  parsley,  and  cut  root  flowers.      An  ordinary  size  for  a 

veil  au  vent  would  be  a  case  large  enough  to  hold  a  fricassee  of  one 

large  fowl  or  two  chickens. 

KASFBERKY   PUFF. 

Proceed  precisely  the  same  as  for  open  tarts.  When  you  have 
cut  the  desired  number,  roll  them  out  thin,  about  six  inches  in 
diameter,  Now  place  a  teaspoonful  of  raspberry  preserves  on  it,  a 
little  from  the  center,  spread  it  a  little,  and  then  bring  the  back 
part  over  on  the  preserve,  keeping  it  back  a  little  from  the  front 
edge,  for  if  it  laps  over  the  bottom  edge  is  prevented  from  rising. 
It  is  best  to  allow  the  top  edge  to  lie  back  from  the  the  front  edge 
at  least  one-fourth  of  an  inch.  This  folding  forms  a  half  circle." 
This  .being  done,  wash  them  with  water,  or  egg  and  water,  and 
dust  them  with  powdered  sugar.  Also  cut  a  few  deep  but  shorj 
cuts  across  the  top — over  where  the  preserve  lays — when  baked, 
the  preserve  shows  through. 

COVENTRY  PUFF. 

For  these  take  scraps  of  puff  paste  and  roll  out  into  a  sheet 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  the  number  of  pieces  you 
require  with  a  plain  round  cutter  three  inches  in  diameter.     Roll 


374  PASTRY. 

these  out  same  as  for  raspberry  puffi;  add  some  iancy  preserves, 
theu  fold  or  lap  the  paste  over  in  three  folds,  so  that  wheu  it  is 
folded  it  will  form  a  triangle.  Then  turn  the  folded  part  down  on 
the  baking  pans,  wash  these  with  water,  or  e^g  and  water;  dust 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake.     You  do  not  cut  these  on  the  top. 

DEEP  FRUIT  PIEa 

Fruit  pies  in  deep  dishes,  such  as  made  by  the  English  and 
French,  are  preferable  to  ordinary  fruit  pie,  because  you  obtain 

more  juice  and  fruit.  The  best  method  of  making  these  is  as  fol- 
lows: Take  a  deep,  oval  pie  dish  (china,  not  tin),  line  the  edge  with 
paste,  also  about  half  its  depth  inside.  Now  invert  a  small  cup  in 
center  (an  egg  cup  is  best),  and  one  that  will  stand  a  little  above  the 
edge  of  the  dish  ;  next  fill  the  dish  with  fruit,  then  add  a  little  water 
if  the  fruit  has  not  much  juice.  Some  fruits,  such  as  currants 
and  raspberries,  have  enough  juice.  Also  add  sugar  to  taste ;  now 
cover  this  with  a  crust  of  short  paste,  wash  it  with  water,  or  white 
of  an  egg,  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar.  Make  a  few  fancy  cuts 
on  it  before  baking,  and  after  it  is  washed  and  sugared  do  not  cut 
too  deep.  These  cuts  give  a  rich  looking  appearance.  The  cup  in 
the  center  collects  the  juice,  and  if  the  whole  of  the  pie  is  not  eaten 
at  one  meal,  what  is  left  can  be  supplied  with  juice  by  simply  lift- 
ing up  the  cup  and  allowing  the  juice  to  escape.  The  edge  of  this 
pie,  to  be  artistic,  should  be  pinched  with  the  finger  and  thumb, 
then  notched  with  a  knife.  If  you  use  fruit  which  gives  too  much 
juice,  you  can  prevent  the  boiling  over  by  mixing  a  little  flour  with 
the  sugar,  about  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  to  twelve  of  sugar. 

ECCLES  CAKES  OR  TARTS. 

Take  one  cupful  of  clean,  well-picked  currants,  add  to  them  one 
cupful  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  finely  chopped  lemon  peel ;  add 
to  this  a  nice  flavoring  of  ground  ginger  and  cinnamon  and  mix  the 
whole  well  together.  Now  take  what  short  crust  paste  or  cuttings 
of  puff  paste  you  require  and  roll  it  out  in  a  short  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick,  then  cut  it  up  in  square  pieces  two  inches  square  and 
put  a  teaspoonfnl  of  the  above  preparation  of  currants,  etc. ,  in  the 
center  of  each  piece  of  pastry ;  then  pull  over  the  edges  allowing 


PASTRY.  375 

them  to  lap  a  little  in  the  center ;  then  flatten  them  with  the  hand 
and  turn  them  over  (folded  part  down).  Next,  with  rolling  pin, 
roll  them  out  until  the  currants,  peel,  etc.,  breaks  through.  Then 
place  them  on  the  baking  pans,  give  them  a  few  cuts  across  the  top 
with  a  knife,  wash  them  with  milk  or  milk  and  egg,  dust  them  with 
sugar  and  bake  them  a  nice  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  This  is  a  nice 
eating  pastry. 

REAL  ENGLISH  BANBURY  CAKE. 

Take  an   equal  quantity  of  clean,  well-picked  currants,  granu- 
lated sugar  and  finely  chopped  lemon  peel  and  mix  it  all  together 
and  .then  add  a  nice  flavoring  of  ginger' and  cinnamon;  now  add 
good  fresh  butter,  enough  to  form  the  whole  into  a  nice  paste.    Take 
the   best  puff*  paste,  roll  it  out  in    a  sheet  one-fourth  of  an  inch 
thick ;  cut  this  in  pieces  two  inches  square  and  place  a  piece  of  the 
prepared  butter,  currants,  etc.,  in  the  center  of  each ;  now  take  the 
two  corners,  the  one  nearest  to  you  and  the  one  opposite  you,  bring 
them  up,  press  them  together,  and  then  with  the  palm  of  the  hand 
press  them  down  flat.     This  makes  the  pieces  oval  in  shape  and 
leaves  two  ends  which  are  folded  together  at  liberty  to  rise ;  now 
wash  the  part  that  is  not  folded  with  water  and  add  as  much  pow- 
dered sugar  as  you  can  get  to  remain  on.     Bake  these  in  a  slow 
heat.     These  are  a  little  expensive,  but  are  very  fine  and  are  the 
real  English  Banbury. 

FANCY  OR  BOOK  SAUSAGE  ROLL. 

Take  a  piece  of  best  puff  paste,  roll  it  out  to  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
in  thickness ;  then  cut  it  up  in  squares  four  inches  square,  lay  them 

out  on  board ;  then  have  the  sausage  meat  ready,  break  it  off*  in 

pieces  the  size  of  a  small  egg ;  roll  them  out  three  inches  long  and 

place  one  piece  in  the  middle  of  each  square  of  pastry,     Now  wet 

the  edge  of  the  pastry  with  water,  then  bring  the  part  furthest  from 

you  over  on  to  the  part  nearest  to  you,  taking  care  to  let  it  be  back 

from  the  front  at  least  one-fourth  of  an  inch  ;  now  wash  these  with 

egg,  taking  care  not  to  allow  the  egg  to  run  down  over  the  sides 

of  the  pastry.     Next  give  a  few  shallow  cuts  with  a  sharp  knife ; 

then  cut  a  leaf  of  pastry,  place  it  in  the  center  (do  not  wash  it), 

and  bake  them  a  nice  brown.     If  these  are  made  well  the  edges 

will  rise  up  and  the  roll  will  look  like  a  book. 


876  PASTRY, 

RASPBERRY  SANDWICHES. 

Take  a  piece  of  puff  paste,  after  it  is  fully  rolled  and  folded,  then 
roll  it  out,  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness  and  fold  ifover  evenly  (like 
a  sheet  of  paper).     Now  roll  this  out  to  an  eighth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness  and  about  twelve  inches  in  width ;  now  roll  this  up  in  a 
roll  the  same  as  you  would  a  sheet  of  paper ;  this  sheet  of   paste 
should  be  so  arranged  in  size  as  to  form  a  roll  (when  rolled  up)  of 
two  inches  or  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  ;  when  this  is  rolled 
up  wet  the  edge  so  that  it  may  not  unfold  again  ;  next  press  it  flat 
until  you  reduce  it  to  about  three-fonrths  of  an  inch  in  thickness; 
now  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  it  off  in  slices  one-fourth  of  inch  in 
thickness,  lay  these  on  the  pan,  cut  part  down,  give  them  room  and 
they  will  then  flow  considerably.     Now  bake  them.     When  baked 
dust  them  well  with  powdered  sugar  and  return  them  to  the  oven, 
which  must,  in  the  mean  time,  be  made  very  hot  so  as  to  melt  the 
sugar,  this  giving  them  a  fine  glaze.     If  you  have  a  salamander  to 
hold  over  them  it  will  glaze  tliem  quicker  than  the  oven,  but  if  you 
have  no  siilamander,  and  can  not  get  the  oven  hot  enough,  then 
wash  them  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  dust  them  with  sugar  and  re- 
turn tliem  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.     When  all  this  is  done 
spread  ra<pl)erry  jam  or  jelly  on  them  and  stick  two  together.    You 
can  dish  them  up  artistically  as  fancy  directs.     They  make  a  pretty 
dish  and  are  all  that  can  he  desired  in  point  of  eating,  and  are  a 
fiivorite  on  all  French  tables. 

GUTTKR    TARTS. 

Take  small  patty  pans,  line  them  out  with  short  crust  and  then 
fill  them  with  red  currants,  black  currants,  raspberries  or  what  fruit 
you  choose ;  heap  them  up  high  in  the  center,  add  a  little  powdered 
sugar  to  each,  wet  the  edge  of  the  paste  with  water,  then  lay  on  a 
top  covering  about  an  eighth  of  inch  thick,  press  the  two  edges  of 
pastry  together  and  then  with  a  sharp  knife  pare  off  the  excess  of 
pastry  from  the  edges  of  the  patty  pans,  holding  the  knife  in  a  slant- 
ing position  toward  the  center  (^f  the  tart  or  patty ;  now  with  the 
thumb  press  the  paste  around  the  base  of  the  fruit,  about  half  an 
inch  from  the  edge  of  the  i)atty  pan ;  press  it  hard  enough  to  all 
but  break  the  paste  and  so  as  to  push  the  fruit  up  in  a  cone  in  the 


PASTRY.  377 

• 

center ;  now  wash  them  with  water  and  bake  them.  The  object 
of  pressing  the  paste  so  thin  around  the  base  of  the  fruit,  is  that 
the  juice  of  the  fruit  may  break  through  the  paste  in  baking  and 
run  around  the  groove  or  gutter  formed  by  the  pressing  of  the 
paste,  and  when  baked  it  has  a  rich  and  pretty  effect.  They  take 
their  name  from  the  peculiar  appearance  given  to  them  by  the  fruit 
juice  so  running  in  this  groove,  and  are  consequently  called  gutter 
tarts.     They  look  very  pretty  and  give  a  fine  effect. 

CREAPRECIES. 

L#ine  out  shallow  patty  pans  with  scraps  of  best  paste  rolled  in  a 
sheet,  place  a  piece  of  bread  in  each  and  bake  them  in  a  cool  oven ; 
when  baked  remove  the  bread  and  place  in  a  teaspoonful  of  red 
currant  or  some  other  jellies  or  jam ;  next  cover  this  with  some 
cheese  cake  preparation  or  with  a  custard  that  will  set.  Next 
have  ready  a  little  meringue,  made  in  the  usual  manner  from  the 
whites  of  eggs  and  sugar,  place  a  tablespoonful  on  each,  bringing  it 
up  cone  form ;  sprinkle  a  little  pink  sugar  on  this  and  return  them 
to  the  oven,  just  to  color  them  a  light  brown? 

FONCHONETTS. 

Proceed  as  for  "  creaprecies."  WJien  baked  place  an  almond 
macaroon  (procurable  at  any  bakers  or  grocers  if  you'  have  none  in 
store)  in  each,  cover  the  macaroon  with  half  quince  and  half  red 
currant  jelly.  Next  have  paper  cone,  same  as  used  for  ornament- 
ing a  cake  with  frosting,  fill  this  cone  with  meringue,  same  as  used 
for  the  ** creaprecies;"  next  drop  a  spoonful  of  meringue  in  the 
center  on  the  jelly,  then  with  the  meringue  in  the  paper  cone  drop 
a  small  cone  shaped  pile  on  the  center,  on  what  is  already  on 
the  jelly;  then  drop  five  or  six  around  it.  This  will  give  you 
a  circle  of  cones  with  one  in  the  center ;  the  cones  must  not  be  too 
small,  as  they  will  not  look  well ;  they  should  be  as  large  as  a 
twenty-five  cent  piece  and  at  least  one  inch  in  height ;  now  return 
them  to  the  oven  just  to  color  them.  When  cold  drop  just  a  little 
red  currant  jelly  on  the  point  of  each  cone.  This  makes  one  of 
the  prettiest  of  fancy  pastry  dishes,  and  sets  off  a  table  wonder- 
fully well. 

I  will  give  my  method  of  making  a  beefijteak  pie. 


878  PASTRY. 

BEEF  STEAK   PIE. 

First  prepare  seasoniDg  of  three  parts  salt  and  one  part  black 
pepper,  with  just  a  dash  of  grouud  nutm^;  uext  tJike  teuder  steak, 
enough  to  fill  the  disli,  cut  this  up  iato  thin  slices,  uow  take  each 
slice,  spriukle  it  with  just  enough  of  the  above  seasoning  to  season 
it  (not  too  high),  then  sprinkle  It  with  chopped  parsley;  next  roll 
it  up  and  pass  a  small  wuodeu  skewer  through  it,  to  hold  it,  or  you 
can  dispeuse  with  the  skewer  if  you  place  the  fold  downward,  to 
prevent  its  unfolding;  continue  this  until  the  dish  is  full,  then  add 
water  sufficient  to  make  a  good  gravy,  now  lay  on  the  top  of  this  a 
few  hard  boiled  e^s  sliced,  then  put  on  the  crust,  previoui-Iy  having 
lined  the  inside  edge  of  the  dish  with  paste ;  now  wash  the  top  witb 
eggs  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  heat;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  haa 
boiled  about  ten  minutes,  the  whole  should  be  cooked.  By  adopting 
this  plan  the  meat  will  be  tender  and  the  gravy  much  richer  than 
by  the  plan  of  par-boiling  the  meat  prior  to  baking ;  the  point  to  ob- 
serve being  not  to  bake  it  too  quick.  For  a  simple  beefsteak  pie, 
cut  the  Bleak  into  strips  about  half  an  inch  m  thickness,  season 
them,  lay  them  in  the  dish,  add  water  for  gravy,  cover  with  crust 
and  bake. 

The  ECUF8B  Ornahenthl— Thoie  nho  wfah  lo  pnutlae  the  ut  iBoght  In  RoE. 

Klnc'e  lesoaa,  t*il!  Sud  the  inveutlon,  lepreseoted  Id  tbe  accompanrliig  cat,  a  gieat 

cotiTenieni^e  and  saring  of  time,  trouble  uid  iu(Br.    It  Beenu  lo  do  away  with  all  th« 

.aaaoyaaccs  which  are  Incident  to  the  UMot  the  paper  conea,  eiUier  withotwlUiontth* 

tubei  mentioned  in  the  leasons.     Theae  require  a  cone  lor  ererr  patiern  ol  tubi 

tequlredfoTthe  work,  or,  If  tubes  are  dispensed  with  altogether,  many  paper  conea  an 

required.  In  order  to  produce  good  work,  owing  to  the  end  ot  the  cone— no  matter  how 

correctly  It  may  have  been  ml— gettli«  eott.  aa  all  paper  will,  to  say 

nothing  of  the  BaDoyaDcei  liom  bDisllne.  etc,  etc..  orthe  ton  ol 

fc  sugar  in  each  cone. 

'  No.  4  represents  the  bag,  which  may  be  paper  or  rubber.  No.  ■ 
the  cap  which  fits  In  the  bag.  and  to  which  No.  2.  which  coDtalm 
(he  tube  No.  1.  la  screwed.  The  dotted  lines  between  flgurea  Not 
i  and  3  represent  where  the  cup  containing  the  tube  screws  on. 

To  use  It  unscrew  the  part  o[  the  dotted  lines  between  Noa-lind 

3:  drop  the  Inbe  Into  the  cup  No.  2,  then  sr.rew  It  on  locupNo.  3; 

II  Is  then  ready  for  use.    I(  you  wish  to  change  the  tube,  you  haw 

only  to  unscrew  at  the  dotted  lines  u  staled  before,  and  Insert 

}  what  tube  yon  require  to  continue  work.    The  cut  at  Che  sida 

shows  the  tube  In  the  cup.  ready  lobe  screwed  on  the  cap  No. 3. 

The  price  of  theomamenlorls^liO,  and  It  may  be  hadbycoim- 

pDOdence  witii  Prof.  C.  H.  King,  OninBe.  New  JerasJ.    By  a  special  arrangemenl  onif 

iHdy  who  la  ihe  owner  of  "  IMilfi  Cook-book"   will  be  supplied  at  twenty  per  cent,  id'- 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES. 


We  give  in  the  following  pages  a  number  of  carefully  selected  and 
thoroughly  tested  recipes,  furnished  us  by  accomplished  mistresses  of 
8oathem  mansions,  in  nearly  every  State  in  Dixie,  always  famous  for  its 
sumptuous  tables  and  generous  hospitality. 

These,  in  addition  to  the  very  excellent  recipes,  distinctively  Southern, 
scattered  through  previous  pages,  will  meet,  we  hope,  every  want,  in  the 
way  of  cookery  rules  which  is  likely  to  be  felt  by  the  Southern  Matron. 

BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

Bakiko  Powder  Biscuit. — ^Two  pounds  or  quarts  of  flour,  four  ounces 
of  melted  lard  or  butter,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  powder,  one  tea.spoonful  of 
salt,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  tepid  water  or  milk ;  mix  the  powder  in  the 
floor  dry,  place  the  melted  lard  in  a  hollow  in  the  middle,  the  salt  and 
water  or  milk  with  that,  and  stir  around,  drawing  the  flour  in  gradually  so 
as  to  make  a  smooth,  soft  dough,  turn  out  on  the  floured  table,  press  the 
dough  out  flat  with  the  hands,  fold  it  over  again  and  again  and  press  out 
till  it  is  compact,  even  and  smooth,  let  stand  five  minutes,  roll  ofit  and  cut 
Into  biscuits,  bake  immediately.  Biscuit  dough  sljould  be  made  up  soft, 
the  shortening  should  be  melted  and  added  to  tlie  fluid  milk-warm,  to 
insure  thorough  incorporation.  The  common  way  of  kneading  the  dough 
up  into  dumpling  shape,  perpetually  breaking  the  layers  and  making  the 
parted  edges  take  up  too  much  flour,  is  the  way  that  ruins  biscuit — Mrs.  S. 
A.  Kitchen. 

Beatek  Biscnr. — One  quart  of  flour,  lard  the  size  of  a  hen's  e^f^,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  mixed  with  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  moder- 
avoly  stiff  batter.  Beat  for  half  an  hour ;  mould  witli  the  hand  or  cut  with 
biscuit  cutter ;  prick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  not  hot  enough 
to  blister. — Mr».  8.  T.y  in  U^usekeeping  in  Old  Virginia. 

Virginia  Beaten  Biscuit. — There  has  to  be  a  maul,  or  Indian  club 
over  two  feet  long,  and  a  stout  table,  for  the  beating;  the  biscuit  will  not  be 
light  unless  you  have  the  maul  made  of  hard  maple,  squaro-Hhaped  at  the 
heavy  end,  but  waving,  so  as  to  make  uneven  hollows  in  the  dough  and  a 
hole  in  the  handle  for  a  string  to  hang  it  up  by.  Three  pounds  of  flour, 
one  large  teaspoonful  sidt,  four  ounces  of  butter  or  lard,  three  cups  milk  or 
water.  Have  the  milk  tepid,  mix  the  melted  butter  and  salt  with  it,  and 
wet  up  the  flour — ^nearly  all — into  soft  dough,  knead  it  to  smoothnesH  on 
the  table,  and  then  beat  It  out  to  a  sheet  with  the  maul,  fold  it  over  on  itself  * 
and  beat  out  again.  There  is  no  established  limit  to  the  times  tlie  dough 
may  be  beaten  out,  but  after  a  few  times  it  l)egins  to  break  instead  of 
spread.    This  injures  it,  and  an  interval  should  be  allowed  for  the  dough 

(1) 


2  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

to  lose  its  toughness ;  the  air  in  the  hollows  beaten  into  the  dough  makes  It 
very  light,  and  white  and  flaky.  Modem  innovators  on  the  preceding 
practice  add  a  teaspoonf ul  of  soda  sifted  into  the  flour  and  mix  up  witli 
buttermilk,  beating  besides  in  the  regular  mminer.  There  are  few  thing* 
more  generally  acceptable  in  some  localities  than  beaten  biscuit  rolled  out 
very  thin  and  fried. — J/r«.  E,  T.  />.,  liidnnond^  Va. 

Thin  Bis<tit  or  Ckackeks.-  One  (juart  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of 
lard  and  butter  mixed,  and  one  teas]>o<)n  of  snlt  made  into  a  stiff  paste 
with  cold  water  \  beat  dough  until  it  blisters  roll  thin,  prick  with  a  fork 
and  bake  (juickly. 

BnTKH  CiiACKKRs.— One  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of 
salt,  one  tables])<>on  of  butter  mixed  into  a  stiff  paste  witli  sweet  milk; 
beat  half  an  Iiour,  roll  tliin,  i)rick  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CuEAM  Crisps.— Put  two  and  a  half  cups  good  rich  cream,  either  sweet 
or  sour,  in  a  crock  and  add  gradually  four  cups  unsifted  best  Graham  flour 
and  half  a  cup  sugar ;  then  take  out  on  board  and  knead  well,  with  one 
more  cup  Graham ;  the  dough  wants  to  be  very  stiff  and  kneaded  thorough- 
ly Roll  out  as  tliin  as  for  thin  cookies,  cut  with  biscuit^jutter,  prick  well 
and  place  in  pans  sliglitly  buttered  tlie  first  time,  not  greasing  afterwards, 
in  a  rather  hot  oven,  and  bake  immediately,  putting  them  in  bottom  of 
oven  first,  and  then  in  the  upi)er  oven  to  brown.  If  wanted  "extra  nice," 
sift  the  flour  (using  al)out  one-eighth  more  flour).  The  quantity  of  sugar 
can  l)e  increased  or  diminislied,  but  for  health's  sake  this  is  sufficient,  or 
even  less.    Carefully  made,  they  will  be  crisp  and  delicious. 

CuuKANT  Buns.-  Ilot  for  supper,  no  eggs  required,  favorite  sort  and 
quickly  made.  This  makes  forty-five ;  four  pounds  of  light  bread  dough, 
eight  ounces  each  currants,  softened  butter  and  sugar.  It  is  soon  enough 
to  begin  these  two  hours  before  supper.  Take  the  dough  from  the  rolls  at, 
say  four  o'clock,  spread  it  out,  strew  the  currants  over  and  knead  them  in, 
roll  out  the  dough  to  one-fiuarter  inch  sheet,  spread  the  butter  evenly  over 
it  and  the  sugar  on  top  of  that.,  cut  in  bauds  about  as  wide  as  your  hand, 
roll  them  out  like  roly-i)oly  puddings,  bru.sh  these  rolls  all  over  slightly 
with  a  little  melted  lard  so  that  the  buns  will  not  stick  together  in  the  pans, 
then  cut  off  in  pieces  about  an  inch  thick,  place  flat  in  a  buttered  pan, 
touching  but  not  crowded,  rise  nearly  an  hour,  bake  fifteen  minutes,  brush 
over  with  sugar  and  water,  dredge  sugar  and  cinnamon  over. 

Hot  Cross  Buns.-  Place  two  and  a  half  quarts  of  flour  to  warm 
thoroughly,  (do  not  scorcli).  When  well  wiuined,  mix  with  it  one  tea 
cup  of  sugar,  a  scant  teacup  of  butter  melted  in  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  tea- 
spoon  etw'h  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  coriantler  seed ;  mix  all  well  togeth- 
er, and  add  ♦wo  tablespoons  of  yeast ;  set  to  rise,  and  when  light,  form  the 
dough  into  buns,  handling  as  little  as  possible;  on  each  bun  cut  a  cross 
with  back  of  knife.    Serve  while  hot.    Made  for  "Good  Friday." 

Kick  Muffins.  -  -Stir  into  one  pint  of  cooked  rice  while  hot,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter ;  let  cool  and  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  two  pints  of  milk, 
one  and  a  half  pints  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  two  tablespoons 
of  veast ;  beat  all  well  together  and  set  to  rise.    Bake  in  muflin  rings. 

!N  UNS  Puffs. — Melt  one  scant  teacup  of  butter  in  one  pint  of  hot  milk ; 
*  stir  in  this  one  quart  of  flour  until  mixture  does  not  stick  to  sides  of  dish; 
let  cool,  separate  four  eggs,  add  yolks  well  beaten  and  strained  first,  lastly 
whites  beaten  until  very  light;  fill  buttered  tins  or  cups  half  full  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven;  remove  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  while  hot; 
Nice  for  breakfast  or  tea. 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES.  a 

, French  Rolls. — Pare  and  slice  one  or  two  potatoes,  add  half  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  boil  until  tender,  then  rub  through  a  colander  with  the  water ; 
add  tablespoon  and  a  half  of  lard,  one  teaspoon  each  sugar  and  salt,  and 
half  teacup  liquid  yeast  and  tablespoon  of  liour ;  let  rise  and  when  liglit 
beat  in  an  egg  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  warm  milk  and  one  quart  of 
flour,  first  having  dried  it;  let  rise  and  when  liglit  make  into  oblong  rolls, 
and  place  into  buttered  plates,  let  rise  again,  pric  k  and  bake.  An  easy  way 
to  make  the  rolls  of  unifonn  size  if  you  have  no  cutter,  is  to  roll  out  the 
dough  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  with  a  round  cutter;  press  the  opposite 
sides  together  and  mould  into  rolls. 

Twist  Rolls. — From  the  douffh  of  loaf  bread  or  French  rolls,  reserve 
enough  to  make  two  long  strips  alx)ut  fifteen  inches  in  length,  and  one  in 
diameter;  rub  the  hands  well  with  lard  or  butter  before  shaping  these 
strips;  (they  can  be  rolled  and  cut^  if  preferred  to  moulding  with  hands, 
into  proper  shape;)  pinch  the  two  ends  together  so  they  will  stick;  twist 
them.,  pressing  tlie  other  ends  together  to  prevent  untwisting;  bake,  or 
thev  can  be  fried  like  doughnuts. — Mrs,  S,  C-  Fleming,  Ky. 

llrNGS. — Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  let  cool  to  blood  heat,  then  pour  ir 
over  two  tablespoons  butter  and  half  teaspoon  salt ;  wiien  nearly  cool  add 
one  well-beaten  ^^'^  and  one  pint  flour  and  half  a  yeast  cake  soaked  in  a 
tablespoon  of  tepid  water,  or  a  half  teacup  liquid  yeast,  leave  in  a  w  arm 
place  to  rise.  AVhen  light  knead  in  three-quarters  of  a  quart  of  flour-  and 
add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar ;  let  rise  and  with  the  hands  make  into  rings ; 
roll  on  the  board  a  piece  of  dough  to  the  len.sjrth  of  eight  inches  and  as 
large  around  as  the  little  finger,  and  pinch  the  ends  together,  put  in  but- 
tered pans  and  when  light,  prick  and  bake. 

Rick  Crcqt  eties. — One  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  a  teaspoon  each  sugar 
and  melted  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  egg  beaten  liglit,  eight  crackers 
rolled  fine,  and  a  little  sweet  milk;  mix  all  well  together,  mtike  into  oval 
cakes  and  fry  in  butter  till  a  nice  yellow  brown,  serve  hot.  A  royal  break- 
fast dish. — Mm.  Col,  Licjfjeit. 

Butter  Rusks. — One  pound  of  good,  lively,  roll  dough,  six  ounces  of 
butter,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  ten  yolks  of  eggs^ 
little  salt,  one  and  one-quaiter  pounds  of  flour.  They  require  five  hours 
time  to  make,  ruise  and  bake.  Wann  the  butter,  supir  and  cream,  with 
the  dough,  together  in  a  pan,  and  then  mix  thoroughly,  beat  in  tlie  yolks, 
two  at  a  time,  and  most  of  the  flour,  gradually  Lrirging  the  mixture  to  a 
smooth  3'ellow  dough,  then  knead  it  thoroughly  and  after  that  set  it  away 
to  rise.  In  about  three  hours  knead  the  dough  the  second  time,  and  an 
hour  after  knead  once  more,  then  make  out  as  directed  and  notch  the  edges 
with  a  knife.  They  rise  and  bake  in  the  same  time  as  rolls,  brush  over 
with  butter  when  done.  Butter  rusks  are  eminently  French,  ar.d  e^ery 
French  cook  makes  rusks  by  a  different  receipt — usually  with  more  butteV 
than  tlie  foregoing — as  migiit  be  expected,  this  unsweetened  kind  of  cake 
figures  considerably  in  French  cof^kery.  One  says  it  is  a^pongy  kind  of 
cake  resembling  Bath  buns.  Another  says  it  should  be  rich,  yellow  and 
like  a  sponge,  whence  it  takes  its  name.  One  mixes  raisins,  currants  and 
shred  citron  in  it  for  lunch  and  tea  bread,  ai:d  makes  it  in  various  fancy 
shapes  and  tw- ists,  also  in  large  cakes.  Another  bakes  tlie  dough  in  form 
of  round  rolls,  cuts  off  the  top,  takes  out  tlje  crumb  and  fills  with  chicken 
or  other  meat,  or,  bakes  In  little  moulds  like  oval  gem  pans,  removes  the 
inside  and  places  in  the  shell  or  tliimble  thus  made  a  cooked  bird  with  its 
gra^  and  dishes  a  pyramid  of  these  on  a  napkin.    iStill  another  steeps 


4  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

slices  of  brioche  in  orange  syrup  and  fries  them  inclosed  in  batter  as  fritt- 
ers; and  i^t  a  costly  and"  elegant  dinner  given  in  New  York,  on  a  Christ- 
mas, ''brioche  crusts,  with  fruit"  appeared  among  the  pastries.    But  the 
following  sweet  varieties  might  be  employed  for  that.    Butter  rusks  of  this 
pattern  siiould  open  and  curl  backwards  in  baking,  therefore  should  not  be 
brushed  over  with  butter  when  panned  as  rolls  are.    Persons  in  practice 
find  it  quickest  to  pull  off  pieces  of  dough  of  right  size  and  mould  them 
Instantly.    Others  cut  off  strips  of  dough,  roll  them  in  lengths  and  cut 
these  up  in  roll  sizes.    Mould  them  up  round  with  no  flour  or  the  board 
and  only  a  dust  on  the  hands,  then  place  them  in  regular  rows  on  tlie  table 
— the  smoothest  side  down.    Take  a  little  rolling  pin — it  looks  like  a  piece 
of  new  broom  handle — and  roll  a  depression  across  the  middle  of  each. 
Brush  tliese  over  with  the  l^jast  possible  melted  lard  or  butter,  using  a  tin- 
bound  vainish  brush  for  the  purpose.    Double  the  rolls,  the  two  buttered 
sides  together  as  a  turnover  is  made,  and  place  them  in  the  pans  diago- 
nally, with  plenty  of  room  so  they  will  not  touch.    Brush  over  the  tops  of 
the  rolls  in  the  puns  with  the  least  possible  melted  lard  again  and  set  them 
to  rise  about  an  hour — less  or  inore  according  to  temperature.    Bake  in  a 
hot  oven,  about  ten  minutes,  brush  over  with  clear  water  when  done.  Keep 
baking  at  short  intervals  and  keep  hot  without  diying  out. 

French  Sweet  Rusks. — The  receipt  for  making  these  is  inquired  for 
at  places  where  tliey  are  made  in  perfection,  perhaps  oftener  than  any 
other.  Tliey  are  cakes  ratlier  tlian  bread ;  very  showy,  and  never  fail  to 
attract  notice,  should  only  be  attempted  with  the  strongest  yeast  or  lightest 
dough,  as  they  are  otherwise  slow  to  rise.  The  art  to  be  acquired  through 
practice  is  to  make  them  elastic  and  pleasant  eating,  not  clammy  like  half- 
baked  bread.  One  pound  of  light  dough,  six  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces 
of  sugar,  six  yolks  and  one  whole  egg^  half  cup  of  milk,  flavoring  as  indi 
cated  below,  one  and  one-quarter  poimds  of  flour.  If  for  afternoon  tea,- 
take  the  dough  from  the  breakfast  rolls,  and  six  hours  before  the  rusks  are 
wanted,  place  it  in  a  pan  with  the  butter,  sugar  and  cream,  let  all  get  warm- 
ed through  and  the  butter  softened,  then  mix  them  thoroughly,  l^ext  add 
the  egg  and  flour  by  littles,  alternately,  beating  the  mixture  up  against 
the  sides  of  the  pan,  to  make  it  smooth  and  elastic,  spread  the  last  handful 
of  flour  on  the  table,  knead  the  dough  as  for  rolls,  pressing  and  spreading 
it  out  with  the  knuckles,  and  folding  it  over  repeatedly,  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  for  two  or  tliree  hours,  then  knead  it  the  second  time.  Every  time 
the  dough  is  doubled  on  itself  the  two  edges  should  be  pressed  together 
first.  "When  tlie  dough  of  this  and  of  the  brioche  receipt  is  ^ood  and  fini- 
shed it  looks  silky,  and  air  will  snap  from  the  edge  when  it  is  pinched. 
After  this  second  kneading  the  dough  should  stand  an  hour  and  then  be 
kneaded  once  more  and  made  into  shapes.  The  smaller  notched  shapes  in 
rolls  is  perhaps  the  best  for  these;  do  not  brush  over  the  tops  with 
butt«r  lest  they  run  out  of  shape,  rise  in  the  pans  one  and  one- 
half  hours,  bake  m  a  slow  oven  fifteen  minutes,  brush  over  when  done  with 
sugar,  egg  and  water,  mixed  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  dredge  granu- 
lated sugar  over.  A  little  flavoring  may  be  added  in  the  dough ;  either 
vanilla  extract,  vanilla  and  rose  mixed,  orange  or  nutmeg;  but  for  a  nice 
variation  grate  in  the  rind  of  one  or  two  lemons  and  squeeze  in  some  of  the 
juice.  If  to  be  made  over  night  without  light  dough  for  a  start,  all  the  in- 
gredients can  be  mixed  at  once  by  taking  a  pint  of  yeast  and  half-pint  of 
milk — or  nearly  all  yeast — adding  all  the  other  articles  and  flour  to  make 
soft  dough.    A  good  every  day  recipe  for  rusks  is  two  pounds  of  light 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES.  ^ 

dough,  four  ounces  each  of  sugar  and  butter,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  large  half 
cup  of  milk,  flour  to  make  it  soft  dough. — Mm.  Wm.  EnglitJCSaioanmih^  Ga. 

Ck>RN  MEAii  Cakes. — ^One  quart  sour  milk,  one  and  a  half  pints  finely 
ground  com  meal,  one  tea8p<x)n  soda,  one  of  salt  and  one  egg ;  mix  sour 
milk  and  meal  first. — Dora  Brabmn,  KnarHUs,  Tenn. 

Corn  Waffles. — Pour  one  quart  milk,  boiling  hot  over  one  and 
a  half  pints  of  com  meal ;  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  of  lard,  a  tea^ 
spoon  of  salt  and  three  eggs  well  beaten ;  mix  thoroughly  and  bake  imme- 
diately. 

CAKES. 

Geoboia  Cocoanut  Cake. — Grate  a  ]K)und  of  cocoanut  and  dry,  cream,, 
one  pound  butter,  add  one  of  sugar,  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  the 
beaten  whites  and  one  pound  of  nour  alternately,  and  last  the  grated  nut, 
beat  until  perfectly  light ;  bake  in  a  moderate  heat  for  three  hours. — L.  A, 
(7.,  Ail(irUa^  Ga. 

Corn  Starch  Puffs. — ^Beat  with  alx)nt  one-half  cup  (scant)  butter,  one 
cup  each  sugar  and  com-starch,  four  eggs,  two  even  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, one-half  teasiKK>n  vanilla  extract ;  bake  in  gem  irons  or  patty  pan» 
and  frost 

Drop  Cakes. — One  cup  each  sour  cream  and  sugar,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
one-half  cup  currants,  one  and  a  half  cups  flour  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon,  and  drop  from  spoon  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 
These  are  delicious  if  eaten  warm,  and  good  cold. 

Kaffee  Kuciien. — ^Take  one-half  cake  compressed  yeast,  or  teacup 
home-made,  put  it  in  a  cup  of  warm  milk,  and  stir  this  in  the  middle  of  a 
pan  of  flour ;  when  light,  add  one-half  pound  each  butter  and  sugar,  some 
floured  raisins,  teaspoon  lemon  essence,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon;  put  in 
dripping  pan,  let  rise,  then  with  a  cake  brush  rub  the  top  with  a  beaten  eggj. 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  bake. — ^To  bake  fruit  cake  in  paste; 
make  it  of  flour  and  water,  roll  out  on  a  board  like  pie  crust,  line  your 
greased  tins  all  over  the  inside  with  it  and  pour  in  the  cake  batter ;  do  not 
break  off  the  paste  till  you  want  to  use  the  cake.  This  is  especially  nice 
for  sponge  and  fruit  cakes. 

Akother  Kaffee  Kuchen. — Four  pounds  of  light  bread  dough,  eight 
ounces  each  sugar  and  butter  or  lard,  one  egg^  (not  essential),  take  the 
dough  at  noon  and  mix  in  the  ingredients  all  slightly  warm,  knead  on  the 
table  with  flour  sufficient,  set  to  rise  until  four  o'clock,  knead  it  again  by 
spreading  it  out  on  the  table  with  the  knuckles,  folding  over  and  repeating, 
roll  it  out  to  sheets  scarcely  thicker  tlian  a  pencil,  place  on  baking  pans» 
brush  over  with  either  water  or  melted  lard,  or  milk,  rise  about  an  hour, 
score  the  cakes  with  a  knife  point  as  you  put  them  in  the  oven  to  prevent 
the  crust  puffing  up,  bake  about  fifteen  minutes.  One  of  the  attractions  of 
this  plain  cake  is  the  powdered  cinnamon  and  sugar  sifted  on  top  after 
baking,  the  cake  being  first  bruslied  M'itli  sugar  and  water.  Cut  in  squarea 
and  serve  hot  The  foregoing  makes  a  sheet  of  cake  large  enough  to  cover 
a  stove  top. 

Pic-Nic  Lo.\f. — Anotlier  form  of  the  coffee  cake,  cheap  and  good  for 
school  pic-nics  and  the  like.  Mix  a  few  raisins  or  currants  in  the 
coffee  cake  dough,  roll  out  pieces  to  the  size  of  dessert  plates  and  half 
inch  thick,  brush  over  with  a  little  melted  lard,  double  them  over  like  large 
split  rolls,  rise  and  bake  like  bread,  and  brush  over  with  a  mixture  of 
water,  egg  and  sugar. 


6  CAKES. 

One  Eoo  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  each  butter  and  milk,  two  of 
flour  and  tn'o  level  teaspoons  baking  t^wder,  one  egg  and  one  cup  raisins 
chopped  and  floured. 

Mauisle  Cake.— White. — One  cup  wliite  sugar,  one-half  cup  each  but- 
ter and  milk,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  teHsjKwn  cream-tartar,  one-half  tea- 
8iK)on  s<Khi,  two  cups  flour  Dark. — One-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-fourth 
cup  butter,  lialf  cup  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  milk,  one-lialf  nutmeg,  one 
teasi)oon  cinnamon,  half  teasjKKm  allspice,  t-easjMwn  cream-tjirtar,  half  tea- 
spoon soda,  two  cups  flour,  yolks  of  three  eggs;  butter  moid,  put  in  the 
dark  and  light  butt*»r  in  alternate  table  spoonfuls. — Mrn.  Dr.  J.  G.  Barnesty 
Athtntft,  On. 

New  Yeau*8  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  eac*h  white  sugar  and  flour,  one 
half  pound  butter,  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  two  pounds  each  citron  and 
))lanclie<l  almonds,  one  large  grated  cocoanut,  one  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der ;  bake  slowly  and  carefully  two  hours. 

White  Fuuit  Cake.— Blanch  and  shred  two  pouuds  almon  ds  cut  two 
pounds  citron  into  long  thin  strips,  grate  a  large  ccK'oanut,  add  one  teasi)oon 
of  s<xla,  two  of  cream  of  tartar  to  one  pound  flour  before  sifting,  cream, 
one  ])ound  white  sugar  and  luUf  pound  butter,  add  well  beaten  whites  of 
twelve  eggs,  and  the  flour  gradually.  When  all  are  well  mixed  add  one- 
third  of  the  fruit,  reserving  the  rest  to  add  in  layers  as  you  put  batter  in 
cake  mold ;  bake  slowly  and  carefully  as  other  fruit  cake,  splendid. — Mm. 
W.  Virginin. 

Old  Virginia  New  Tear's  Cake. — Yolks  of  twenty-four  eggs,  one 
pound  each  butter  and  sugar,  (»ne  third  pint  molasses,  one  pound  browned 
flour,  five  tablespoons  shorts,  one  tablespoonful  com  meal,  four  pounds  of 
raisins,  seeded,  one-half  pound  ea<'h  citron,  currants  and  blanched  almonds, 
two  ounces  each  grated  nutmeg  and  ch(K^olate,  one  tal)lespoonful  ground 
coffee,  tJiblespoonful  each  cloves,  allspice  and  mace,  one-half  tablesiX)on 
each  lemon  and  vanilla,  three  level  tablespoons  ]>aking  i)owder,  one  wine 
glass  each  wine  and  brandy;  bake  six  hours.  This  will  keep  a  year  and 
will  be  found  superior  to  any  other  black  cake. 

Pine  Appl?:  Cake. — Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  five  eggs,  three 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  bake  in  layers,  ('over  each  layer  with  a  thick  icing,  then  cover 
with  grated  pine  a])ple.  Place  on  next  layer  and  treat  as  before;  or  two 
cups  sugar,  one  of  milk,  tw  o-thirds  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  and  tiivo  table- 
sp(Kms  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers  and  make  a  frosting  by  boil- 
ing together  one  tea  cup  sugar  and  four  tablespoons  water,  tfil  brittle 
when  tested  in  cold  water,  i)our  this  at  once  in  a  small  stream  over  the 
well  frothed  white  of  an  ^ii^g,  beating  all  the  time,  (this  is  the  secret  of 
success,)  and  continue  l)eating  till  frosting  is  cold,  spread  each  layer  with 
this  and  sprinkle  with  either  grated  or  chopped  pine  apple  fresh  or  canned 
{a  white  layer  cake  may  be  used).  This  is  delicious,  and  one  of  "Dixie's" 
favorites. 

Molasses  PoirND  Cake. — One-half  pound  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two 
of  molasses,  six  of  flour,  one  cup  cream,  four  eggs ;  add  cloves  and  nutmeg 
to  taste  and  a  little  lemon  if  liked.-  Mrs.  D.  S. 

New  Orleans  Sponge  Cake. — Weigh  ingredients  and  prepare  baklnff 
pans,  then  pour  one  gill  of  Ijoiling  water  on  three-quarters  of  a  pound  ^ 
sugar  in  a  Ik)w1  ;  stir  it,  cover  and  let  it  stand  on  the  table  until  yollu  of  dix 
eggs  are  beaten,  add  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  to  the  eggs ;  IrotU  thi. 
ivhites  and  pour  the  yolks  on  them,  beat  thoroughly  togeihei*  then  add  tb 


POPULAR  DIXIE  mSEES.  7 

fljmp,  (saear  and  water)  and  beat  ten  minntes,  or  till  thick,  sift  in  half- 
poond  of  lour,  mixing  very  gently  with  a  knife,  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
poar  in  pans  and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  The  syrup  is  some- 
times left  on  the  range,  and  when  boiling  is  poured  into  the  eggs  which 
are  then  beaten  until  cold.  The  eggs  thicken  more  quickly  in  this  way, 
and  the  cake  is  excellent,  but  perhaps  not  quite  so  moist  as  that  made  with 
cool  s>Tup.  This  cake  has  the  advantage  of  keeping  much  longer  than 
oatiinary  sponsre  cake. 

MiLKLEss  White  Cakb. — ^Whites  of  six  eggs,  scant  three-quarters  cup 
butter,  one  and  a  quarter  cups  pulverized  sugar,  two  of  flour,  juice  of  hiUf 
a  lemon,  one  quarter  teaspoon  soda.  Put  soda  in  flour  and  sift  several 
times  to  mix  well,  beat  butter  to  a  light  cream  and  stir  in  flour  gradually 
"With  the  tips  of  fingers  until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste,  add  well  whipped 
whites  of  eggs  to  the  sugar ;  stir  these  gradually  into  the  flour  and  butter 
and  add  lemon  juice,  beat  all  smooth  with  an  egg  whip.  Tliis  cake  may 
be  made  ^"ith  a  teaspoon  baking  powder  or  quarter  teaspoon  of  so<la  and  a 
half  teaspoon  cream  tartar  when  essence  of  lemon  should  be  used  instead 
of  lemon  juice.    A  splendid  cake. — Mrs.  E.  /?.,  8t,  LouiSy  Mo. 

Meringuks  with  Whipped  Cream. — Four  whites  of  eggs,  one  small 
cupful  fine  granulated  sugar.  Vanilla  and  lemon  flavoring ;  put  the  whites 
into  a  deep  bowl,  pan  or  pail,  have  tliem  cold  and  beat  with  a  bunch  of  wire 
until  the  froth  is  firm  enough  to  hold  up  an  egg,  put  in  the  sugar  and  a 
few  drops  of  flavoring  extract,  and  beat  about  half  a  minute  longer.  These 
meringues  are  to  be  hollow,  mere  shells  of  pasting,  and  to  make  them  so 
they  are  placed  on  pieces  of  board  that  will  not  let  the  bottom  cook.  Cut 
some  strips  of  paper  two  inches  wide,  plate  them  on  boards  that  will  go  in 
the  oven,  drop  large  spoonfuls  of  tlie  meringue  paste  on  the  paper  and 
form  them  in  egg  shapes  or  round,  smoothing  tliem  with  a  knife  dipped  in 
water,  sift  a  litQe  sugar  over  them,  and  dry,  bake  in  a  slack  oven  about 
twenty  minutes.  Too  mucli  heat  will  cause  them  to  melt  and  go  down. 
When  they  are  cold  take  them  off  the  paper,  and  with  a  knife  scoop  out 
the  soft  inside.  These  meringues  can  also  have  a  little  whipped  cream  in- 
side and  be  joined  by  twos  together  by  the  bottom. 

8t.\b  Kisses. — A  simple  form  of  meringues  made  of  the  same  paste  or 
frosting  as  the  foregoing.  Prcxiure  a  thin  star  tube  from  the  furnishing 
store,  it  is  about  the  length  of  a  finger  and  tlie  point  cut  serrated.  This  is 
inserted  in  the  point  of  a  f  uimol  shaped  bag,  which  is  then  filled  with  the 
paste,  and  star-shaped  drops  are  pressed  out  on  to  baking  pans  slightly 
greased.  They  are  baked  to  a  light  fa^^■n  color  and  slip  off  the  pans  easi- 
ly when  cool.  No  filling  required.  A  sheet  of  paper  can  be  pinned  in 
shape  and  the  point  cut  so  as  to  do  duty  temporarily  in  place  of  tlie  tube. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes. — ^Take  one  cup  sugar, — eight  ounces — ^three 
lemons,  butter  size  of  an  egg, — ^two  ounces — four  to  six  yolks  or  three 
whole  eggs.  Cut  the  sugar,  butter,  grated  rinds  and  juice  of  lemons  into 
a  sauce  pan  and  boil,  add  eggs  and  stir  till  it  becomes  thick.  This  is  best 
made  in  a  custard  kettle, — b:ettle  within  a  kettle.  This  can  be  kept  for 
use  and  when  wanted,  make  tart  shells,  fill,  cover  with  a  meringue  and 
brown  delicately  in  oven;  or  make  the  delicious  *' linger  biscuit'*  with 
eight  ounces  fine  granulated  sugar,  four  eggs,  four  tablespoons  water,  six 
ounces  flour, — a  heaping  cup ;  separate  the  eggs — white  in  bowl  and  yolks 
in  mixing  pan.  Put  water  and  sugar  in  with  yolks  and  beat  them  with  an 
egg  whip  ten  minutes  till  a  thick  light  batter,  add  the  flour,  then  the  well 
whipped  whites.    Fill  a  stiff  paper  comet  with  the  point  cut  ojS  (or  a  lady- 


8  CSEAM8, 

finger  sack  and  tube)  with  the  batter  and  press  out  finger  lengths  on  to  a 
sheet  of  manilla  paper,  sift  powdered  sugar  over,  shake  off  surplus  and  lay 
the  sheet  on  a  biding  pan ;  bake  about  six  minutes,  dampen  the  paper 
underside,  take  the  cakes  off  and  place  by  twos  together.  To  make  tbe 
"Dixie"  cheese  cakes,  drop  the  above  cake  mixture  in  round  cakes  rather 
than  finger-sha])ed,  on  sheet  of  paper,  dredge  with  sugar,  place  paper  in  pan^ 
bake,  remove  as  above  and  spread  under  side  of  each  cake  with  lemoix 
mixture  and  place  two  together.  They  are  perfectly  delicious  and  served 
with  ice  cream  make  an  elegant  dessert 

Lemon  Cheesk  Caees-^MIx  gently  four  tablespoons  white  sugar,  odo 
half  tablespoon  butter,  add  yokes  of  two  eggs,  white  of  one,  grated  rind 
of  three  lemons,  juice  of  one  and  a  half,  one  small  savory  or  sponge  bis- 
cuit, some  almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  three  tablespoons  of  brandy; 
mix  well  and  bake  in  tart  tins  lined  with  a  rich  puff  paste,  then  cover 
wiih  a  meringue  made  of  the  well  frothed  white  of  one  egg  mixed 
lightly  with  one  tablespoon  sugar;  return  to  oven  and  brown  delicately. 

CREAMS. 

Caledonia  Cream. — Beat  together  in  a  bowl  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  two  ounces  of  rasberry  jam,  two  of  currant  jelly,  two  of  sifted  loaf 
sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  previously  whipped.  A  very  pretty 
cream. — Carrie  Wright^  KnoxviUSy  Tenn. 

Frozen  Whipped  Cbeam. — One  of  the  handsomest  deserts  or  for  an 
evening  party  are  different  creams  frozen  in  glasses.'  In  winter  time 
when  cold  enough,  simply  expose  them  to  outer  air,  or  in  summer  time 
place  the  glasses  in  a  box  or  can  of  pounded  ice.  In  whipping  the 
cream  it  is  best  to  set  it  on  ice.  The  following  recipes  are  some  I  have 
used :  Coffee  Cream :  — Mix  one  quart  thick  cream,  one  cup  each  strong- 
black  coffee  and  sugar  in  a  tin  pail  or  deep  pan ;  place  on  ice  and  whip 
with  egg  beater  to  a  froth ;  pile  up  in  stem  glasses,  freeze  as  above  and 
serve  m  same  glasses.  Chocolate  Cream :  — ^Put  one  cup  milk  over  the  fire- 
with  one  cup  sugar  and  four  oimces  sweet  chocolate  (a  cupful)  grated  and 
beat  till  it  is  all  dissolved ;  strain  into  another  vessel  and  let  cool ;  whip  one 
quart  thick  cream  in  a  pail  and  add  chocolate  milk  while  whipping;  flavor 
with  vanilla  and  finish  as  above.  Maraschino  Cream :  — Mix  one  quart 
cream,  one  cup  marashino  liquor,  one-half  cup  sugar ;  whip  to  a  froth  and 
finish  as  above.  Vanilla  Cream :  — One  .quart  thick  cream  and  three  quart- 
ers cup  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  whip  to  a  froth ;  pile  in  glasses  and 
freeze  as  directed. — Mrs.  L.  Edwin  Hocket^  New  OrleajiSy  La. 

Obangb  Cream. — Soak  half  an  ounce  of  Coxe's  gelatine  in  half  a  gill 
of  cold  water ;  and  also  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  in  the  orange  juice 
each  half  an  hour ;  then  melt  the  gelatine  over  boiling  water  and  add 
juice  and  rind  and  when  quite  hot,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  (use  whites  for 
lemon  ice)  beaten  with  half  a  pint  of  sugar,  stir  till  it  thickens,  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  cream,  and  strain  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water ; 
when  cold  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Sadie  Brtrunt,  Chattanooga^  Tenn. 

Strawberry  Cream. — First  make  small  cases  with  fine  bookpaper,  like 
writing  paper  not  ruled ;  six  sheets  will  make  fifty  cases  by  fitting  a  band 
of  paper  to  the  outside  of  a  very  small  tumbler  or  wine  glass  or  some 
similar  small  shape.  The  band  of  paper  when  cut  to  fit  will  form  a  curve. 
Cut  as  many  such  pieces  as  are  needed  from  the  sheets  and  then  placing- 
three  or  four  together ;  cut  both  top  and  bottom  edges  into  fringe  a  quarter 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES,  9 

of  an  Inch  or  less  In  depth ;  make  some  corn  starch  paste  very  stlfP  and 
paste  tiie  ends  of  the  bands  together,  forming  cup  shapes,  then  cut  around 
the  edges,  press  the  fringed  bottom  edges  of  the  cups  on  the  paste,  the 
fringe   bent  outward,  and  the  cups  are  made.    Now  make  a  sponge  cake ; 
beat  together  rapidly  for  ten  minutes  the  yolks  of  fifteen  eggs,  three  roun- 
ded cups  sugar,  {\%  pounds)  and  one  half  cup  water,  then  add  four  rounded 
cups   flour,  (18  ounces)  and  last,  the  well-frothed  whites  of  fifteen  eggs ; 
spread  thickly  on  sheets  of  blank  paper  not  greased,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  about  six  minutes ;  careful  baking  is  necessary  so  it  may  not 
be  dried  or  burned ;  brush  paper  underside  with  water  and  pull  it  off ; 
should  any  of  the  sheets  become  too  dry  to  roll  or  bend  lay  them  on  top 
of  each  other  after  wetting  the  paper  and  let  lie  half  an  hour ;  cut  out 
pieces  of  cake  by  same  paper  pattern  the  cases  were  cut  by,  but  a  trifle 
shorter  and  line  the  cases  w^ith  thejn ;  no  bottom  of  cake  is  needed,  but 
little  square  pieces  can  be  pushed  down  inside  if  wished.    This  recipe 
is  for  fifty  cases,  but  the  best  way  is  to  buy  sheets  of  sponge  cake  at  a 
baker^s  as  it  will  then  be  perfect  and  will  roll  or  bend  easily.    A  short  time 
before  serving   fill  the  charlottes  with  the  following  cream :  one  quart 
strawberries,  three   pints  thick  sweet  cream,  one  cup  milk,  one  pound 
sugar,  (two  cups)  one  and  a  half  ounce  gelatine ;  put  fruit  and  sugar  in  a 
bowl,  mash  and  rub  through  a  seive ;  disolve  gelatine  in  the  cup  milk 
set  where  it  will  warm  gradually ;  when  dissolved  put  cream  in  a  pail, 
set  on  ice  and  with  egg  beater  whip  to  a  froth ;  pour  in  gelatine,  continue 
whipping,  add  strawberry  pulp  or  syrup  and  when  firm  enough,  befofe 
quite,  fiU  the  charlottes  with  it.    These  must  be  kept  in  a  cold  place, 
and  this    is  the  case  with  all  whipped  cream.    A  plain  cream  without 
fruit  or  gelatine,  flavored  with  strawberry  extract  can  be  used. — Mr». 
S.  A.  r.,  NaskmUe,  Tmn, 

VAirtLUi  Cream. — Two  and  one  half  cups  milk  boiled  with  one  cup 
sugar,  add  one  beaten  egg,  one  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  com  starch, 
the  latter  disssolved  in  half  cup  cold  milk ;  boil  and  stir  for  a  few  minutes 
and  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla. — Carrie  E.  Wood,  KnoxviUe,  Tenn. 

DRINKS. 

Apple  Wine. — To  each  gallon  cider  fresh  froi6  press,  add  two  pounds 
good  brown  sugar ;  after  this  has  dissolved,  strain  wine  and  put  into  a  new 
cask,  cover  bung  with  piece  of  muslin  or  perforated  tin,  let  stand  for  a 
week,  then  cork  lightly  and  let  remain  two  weeks  longer,  cork  tightiy ;  the 
vessel  must  not  be  filled,  leaving  at  least  one-eight  of  space ;  will  be  good 
in  two  or  three  months,  when  it  should  be  drawn,  bottled  and  sealed.  This 
wine  is  equal  to  catawba. — Rev.  D.  P.  Younge,  Ky. 

Blackberry  Wine. — Mea»*ure  berries  and  bruise  them,  add  one  quart 
of  boiling  water  to  every  gallon  of  fruit,  fill  large  stone  jar,  tie  a  cloth 
over  it  and  let  stand  three  or  four  days  to  ferment ;  strain  liquor  into  a 
cask,  adding  three  pounds  brown  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice ;  reserve  a 
part  to  fill  the  vessel  as  fermentation  goes  on ;  cover  bung  hole  with  piece 
of  muslin ;  leave  two  or  three  weeks,  then  cork  tightly  and  let  remain  un- 
disturbed six  months ;  after  that  time  bottle  and  seal.  Superior  currant 
wine  may  be  made  by  this  recipe. — Mrs.  F.,  Va. 

Catawba  Wine,  (Superior). — Cut  grapes  and  remove  all  imperfect  or 
green  ones,  tack  a  leather  loosely  over  the  end  of  a  small  mallet  and  pad 
with  hay,  to  prevent  mashing  grape  seeds.    Put  fruit  in  a  tub  and  mash, 


10  DRINKa. 

let  stand  all  night,  then  drain  all  Juice  into  open  vessels,  leave  standing- 
nntil  scum  rises,  breaking  in  cracks  and  showing  little  white  foam,  skim  It 
off,  fumigate  cask  with  brimstone,  pour  in  juice  adding  two  pounds  sugar 
to  each  gallon,  put  bung  in  loosely,  leave  for  three  weeks,  then  tighten. 
In  February  drain  off  very  gently,  bottle,  cork  and  seal,  keep  in  a  cool  place. 
— Mrs.  Col.  8.,  Ky. 

GiNGEU  Aii. — ^Two  gallons  water,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  desaert 
spoon  cream  tartar,  two  tablespoons  fibrous  part  of  ginger,  half  a  sliced 
lemon ;  when  milk  warm  add  half  a  pint  of  patent  yeast,  and  bottle  when 
fermentation  begins.  Do  not  put  over  fire  after  adding  yeast. 
/  Ginger  Beer. — One  and  a  half  ounce  each  best  ground  Jamaica  ginger 
and  cream  tartar,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  two  sliced  lemons,  four  quarts 
boiling  water,  one  half  pint  yeast;  let  it  ferment  twenty-four  hours;  in 
two  weeks  it  will  be  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  G.  W.  P.,  Va. 

Gooseberry  Wine. — Gather  ripe  Berries  and  wash  well,  let  stand  three 
or  four  days,  strain  and  to  nine  pints  juice  add  four  of  rain  water  and  four 
pounds  brown  sugar,  leave  for  five  or  six  weeks,  strain  and  bottle. 

Lemonade. — ^Pare  three  lemons ;  peeling  gives  a  bitter  taste  to  lemonade 
when  kept  long;  slice  and  squeeze  lemons  upon  six  tablespoons  sugar,  add 
a  very  little  water,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  two  quarts  water,  ice 
well,  stir  and  serve. 

Mint  Cordial. — While  dew  is  on  pick  mint  without  bruising,  put  two 
handfuls  in  a  pitcher  with  quart  French  brandy,  cover  and  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours ;  remove  mint  and  add  same  quantity  fresh  mint  for  two 
succeeding  mornings,  then  add  one  pound  loaf  sugar,  bottle  and  cork  well. 
Some  preier  to  add" three  quarts  w^ater. — Mrs.  B.^  Atlanta,  Oa. 

Peach  CJordial. — Pare  and  cut  one  pound  fruit,  sprinkle  with  one 
pound  white  sugar,  let  stand  for  two  hours,  boil  until  they  become  a  thick 
syrup,  strain,  add  brandy  to  taste  and  bottle. 

Roman  Punch. — ^Three  coffee  cups  lemonade,  strong  and  sweet,  one 
glass  champagne  and  one  of  rum,  juice  of  two  oranges,  well  whipped 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  half  pound  sugar;  use  ice  liberally  or 
freeze. 

Sherry  Cobbler. — One  lemon  and  one  orange  sliced,  several  slices  of 
pine  apple  quartered,  half  a  cup  powdered  sugar  and  a  tumbler  sherry 
wine ;  in  a  wide  mouth'  pitcher  place  the  sliced  fruit  in  layers  with  sugar, 
and  pounded  ice  between  each  layer,  cover  with  sugar  and  ice,  and  let- 
•  stand  five  minutes,  add  two  tumblers  of  water  and  rest  of  sugar,  stir  well 
to  dissolve,  fill  pitcher  nearly  full  of  pounded  ice,  pour  in  wine  and  stir 
until  all  is  well  mixed ;  in  serving  put  a  slice  of  each  kind  of  fruit  in  the 
goblet  before  filling. 

Strawberry  Wine. — ^Three  poimds  sugar,  one  gallon  juice,  strain 
through  flannel,  pour  in  jug  and  leave  until  spring. — Mrs.  Brutus  Clay. 

To  Preserve  Cider  Sweet. — ^When  fermentation  begins  draw  cider 
off,  rinse  barrel,  strain  through  flannel  and  pour  back,  take  one  pint 
alcohol,  one-quarter  ounce,  each,  oil  of  sassafras  and  winter  green,  shake 
well  and  add  to  cider.  Some  use  this  when  cider  is  new  and  find  it  works 
perfectly. 

Tomato  Wine. — Cook  ripe  tomatoes  until  juice  flows  freely,  mix  one 
gallon  water  with  one  of  juice ;  to  each  gallon  of  this  mixture,  add  three 
pounds  loaf  sugar,  let  ferment,  when  lees  sink  to  bottom,  rack  off  and  add 
more  sugar  if  desirable;  clarrify  with  white  of  egg  or  isinglass,  after  second 
fermentation. 


POPULAB  DIXIE  DISHES.  11 

■ 

VrHGiOTA  Apple  Toddy. — Half  gallon  apple  brandy,  half  pint  each 
French  and  peach  brandy,  and  Maderia  wine,  six  roasted  apples,  one  po.nnd 
sugar,  with  enough  hot  water  to  dissolve,  add  spice  if  wished,  strain  and 
bottle.     This  will  keep  improving  for  years. 

WrLi>  Grape  Wine. — Use  the  small  grapes,  two  pounds  of  white  sugar 
to  one  gallon  of  juice,  put  in  a  cask  cellar  until  spring,  then  rack  off  and 
bottle. 

WrLD  Grape  "Wine. — Cleanse  well  a  whole  or  half  molasses  barrel; 
take  out  one  head  and  bore  a  half -inch  hole  just  above  the  other  or  lower; 
cover  bottom  with  clean  sticks  and  cover  these  with  fresh  hay  or  straw  two 
or  three  inches  deep ;  pick  grapes  from  stem,  place  in  buckets  and  crush 
gently  so  as  not  to  break  seed;  stir  occasionally  until  juice  flows  freely; 
measure  .c:rapes  and  juice;  to  each  measure  of  these,  add  half  of  pure 
water ;  put  all  in  barrrel  and  cover  with  false  head  weiglited  down  enough 
to  keep  grapes  from  rising  above  juice;  let  stand  three  days,  remove  head 
when  hulls  will  rise  and  juice  settle;  on  the  fourth  day  draw  off  juice 
through  spile  hole  into  buckets,  (covered  with  flannel  to  strain)  and  to  each 
gallon  of  juice  add  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  fine  sugar;  pour  into  casks 
or  stone  jugs;  never  demijohns;  let  ferment  in  a  cool  phice  ten  or  twelve 
days;  draw  off  and  clean  vessel  well,  then  burn  a  sulpliur  match  in  it  and 
return  wine  while  fumes  of  match  are  still  in  vessel ;  close  mouth,  IjBaviug 
only  a  small  gimlet  hole  covered  with  netting;  after  a  time  net  may  be  re- 
moved and  cork  put  loosely  in;  do  not  cork  tightly  for  six  months;  it  may 
then  be  bottled  or  kept  in  cask.  For  cultivated  grape  use  same  recipe, 
using  neither  sugar  nor  water,  however.  For  Bcuppernong  and  Whisca- 
chine  use  no  water,  but  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  to  the  gallon. 
Blackberry  wine  made  in  the  same  way.  This  is  the  best  plan  for  making 
a  large  quantity  of  wine,  and  is  certainly  unequalled. — Mrs.  Eckfordy  At- 
lanta^  Ga. 

ENTREES. 

Brunswick  Stew. — Stew  one  chicken  or  two  squirrels  in  half  gallon 
water  until  bones  can  be  removed.  Cook  in  separate  saucepans  six  large 
ripe  tomatoes,  one  half  pint  butter-beans  and  six  ears  of  corn  cut  froiil  cob, 
add  to  cut  pieces  of  chicken  from  which  bones  have  been  removed ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter ;  cook  until  thick  enough  to  be  eaten  with  fork ; 
will  require  probably  four  hours  cooking.  An  excellent  old  Virginia  disli. 
.  Broiled  Kidneys. — Chop  fine  one  teaspoonful  each  of  Onions,  parsley 
and  any  green  herb  in  season.  Mix  them  with  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  level  salt  spoon  of  pepper,  as  much  cayenne  as  can  be  taken  up 
on  the  point  of  a  small  pen-knife  blade,  and  once  ounce  butter ;  put  them 
on  a  dish,  and  set  it  where  it  will  get  hot.  Wash  the  kidneys  in  cold  water 
and  salt,  split  them,  take  out  the  white  centers,  broil  them  quickly,  and  put 
them  on  the  hot  dish,  turning  them  over  to  cover  tliem  equally  with  the 
seasonings.    Serve  them  hot,  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  or  slices  of  lemon. 

To  Pry  Brains. — Soak  several  hours  in  weak  brine  to  extract  blood, 
drain  and  simmer  four  minutes  in  very  little  boiling  water;  handle  lightly 
in  forming  round  cakes;  pepper  them  and  use  very  little  salt;  have  ready 
a  beaten  eggi  with  which  cover  top  of  cakes,  sift  over  grated  crackers,  then 
cover  under  side  in  same  way  and  fry  in  hot  lard ;  keep  closely  covered 
while  frying.— ifr«.  S.  T, 


la  ENTREE8. 

CmcgBN  PiLiiAU. — One  pint  milk,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  cold 
minced  chicken  from  which  the  outer  skin  has  been  previously  removed, 
and  enough  cold  boiled  rice  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter,  and  bake  in  a  deep  dish  for  twentnr  minutes  or  until  a  light 
brown.  A  piUau  of  cold  meats  can  be  made  by  adding  a  little  minced  ham 
and  onion  to  seasoning. — Mi»s  Tyiton,  Virginia. 

Daubb  Froide. — One  beef  shin,  chopped  in  several  places  to  break 
bones,  cook  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  till  it  falls  to  pieces; 
after  taking  out  bones,  season  with  a  heaping  teaspoon  flour  rubbed  into 
one  of  butter,  red  and  black  pepper,  salt  and  celery  seed;  stew  long 
enough  to  cook  flour,  then  pour  into  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  a  plate,  placing 
on  weights  to  press  it.    To  be  eaten  cold  as  souse. — Mrs.  C.  M.  A. 

Liver  Pudding — Clean  well  two  hogs'  heads,  two  livers,  two  lights,  six 
sweet  breads,  six  kidneys  split  open  and  all  of  the  good  part  off  six  milts; 
soak  in  tub  of  soft  water  over  night ;  next  morning  Ijoil  until  done,  adding 
two  slices  of  fat  pork,  take  up,  cool  slightly  and  grind  in  sausage  mill; 
while  grinding  add  some  of  the  grease  taken  off  kettle.  When  ground 
season  with  black  pepper,  salt  and  onions  (chopped  fine)  to  taste.  If  not 
rich  enough,  boil  more  middling  or  pork  and  add.  If  stuffed  boil  again  a 
few  minutes. 

Meat  Puffs. — ^Roll  a  sheet  of  good  paste  and  cut  into  circular  shapes  by 
pressing  a  saucer  upon  it  and  passing  a  sharp  knife  around  tlie  saucer ;  lay 
upon  the  half  of  each  circle  of  paste,  a  tablespoon  of  any  kind  of  meat, 
poultry,  flsh,  oysters,  etc.,  minced  fine  and  seasoned  to  taste ;  moisten  with 
wine  or  cati^up ;  fold  over  the  other  half,  crimp  the  edges  and  bake  or  fry. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Stewed  Mushrooms. — Pare  and  rub  with  a  little  salt,  throw  in  sauce  pan 
without  water ,  let  stew  until  tender ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  cream  or 
milk,  pepper  and  salt;  let  tliem  l)e  rather  stiff  with  gravy,  will  take  three 
hours  to  make  tender ;  let  them  cool  slowly  on  back  of  stove  until  readv, 
when  thick  serve.  To  dry  mushrooms  peel  and  cut  from  stalks ;  dry  gently 
in  a  mcxlerate  oven,  put  them  away  in  a  tight  can  and  keep  from  dampness. 

Potted  Rabbits. — Two  small  rabbits  or  one  large  one,  one  pound  fat 
bacon  or  fresh  butter,  one  of  veal,  liver  of  rabbits,  salt,  pepper  and  spices ; 
cut  rabbit  in  pieces,  put  in  stone  jar,  cut  veal  and  bacon  in  large  dice,  mix 
them,  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  mixed  mace,  cloves  and  black  pepper,  teaspoon 
salt  and  fill  spaces  between  pieces  of  rabbit  with  this  mixture,  lay  a  thin 
slice  of  bacon  and  one  bay  leaf  on  top,  cover  with  a  lid  of  plain  paste  made 
of  flour  and  water  only;  set  jar  in  a  pan  or  pot  of  water;  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  three  or  four  hours;  a  greased  paper  on  top  will  prevent  paste 
burning ;  when  done  and  cold  pick  meat  from  bones  of  rabbit,  and  pound 
to  a  paste  with  veal  and  bacon,  and  if  any  gravy  remains  in  jar,  cook  very 
low  and  mix  with  meat;  taste  for  seasoning;  press  firmly  into  smtdl  jars 
or  cups,  cover  top  with  melted  butter,  keep  well  covered  in  a  cool  place. 
Potted  meats  keep  for  months,  and  can  be  used  as  needed.  Potted  rabbits 
make  delightful  sandwiches  using  split  baking  powder  biscuits  buttering 
one  half,  spreading  meat  on  the  other. 

To  Bake  a  Fresh  Beef  Tongue. — Parlwil  in  small  quantity  of  salted 
water  for  two  hours ;  skin  and  remove  rough  part;  roll  in  cracker  dust,  then 
in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  cracker  dust,  and  lay  in  pan  to  bake ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was 
boiled.    Baste  well  with  butter  while  baking. 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES.  18 

ToNOTTE  ToAfiT. — ^Take  cold  well  boiled  tongue,  minced  fine,  mix  well 
with  cream  or  a  little  milk ;  add  l)eaten  yolk  one  egg,  aimmer  slowly;  toast 
thin  Blices  stale  bread,  butler  and  spread  in  a  flat,  heated  dish,  cover  with 
tOD^e  and  serve  quicklv. — Mitt.  S. 

Ragout  of  Swekt  6rk.vd8  and  Mushbooms. — Two  or  three  large 
sweetbreads,  or  one  pound;  one-half  can  of  mushrooms;  two  ounces  uf 
butter — aixe  of  an  egi;;  one  t^iblespoonful  of  flour;  little  minced  onion  and 
ham  for  seasoning;  juice  of  one  lemon;  cayenne  and  salt;  fried  shapes  of 
bread  for  the  border;  take  the  sweetbreads  already  cooked  and  cold,  and 
cut  them  into  large  dice.  Make  the  sauce  for  them  in  a  deep  saucepan, 
first  putting  in  half  the  butter,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion  and  a 
very  thin  slice  of  ham  and  when  these  are  cooked  enough  for  flavor  with- 
out browning  put  in  the  flour  and  stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  it 
begins  to  color.  Then  add  gradually  the  mushroom  liquor  and  a  cupful  of 
the  liquor  the  sweetbretids  were  boiled  in ;  let  it  boil  up  and  become  thick. 
Add  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Next,  melt  the  other  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  put  in  the  mushrooms  and  the  cut  of  sweetbreads  and  shake  them 
about  over  the  fire  until  they  begin  to  show  color ;  take  it  off,  squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  then  strain  in  tiie  thick  sauce  from  the  other 
vessel.  Dish  them  heaped  up  in  tlie  centre  of  a  flat  platter,  or  of  small 
dishes  for  individual  orders,  and  place  a  border  of  thin  shapes  of  bread 
fried  in  lard  around  the  edge.  Fried  crusts  or  shapes  for  garnishing.  In 
a  case  where  economy  is  not  in  question,  the  handsomest  shape  for  a  border 
can  be  made  by  taking  a  stale,  long  and  narrow  loaf  of  bread  and  trimming 
down  on  both  sides  to  some  pattern  (like  a  piece  of  carperter^s  mouldings), 
so  that  when  it  is  sliced  up  with  a  sharp  knife  the  slices  will  be  heart- 
shaped,  or  leaf  or  club  or  spade-shaped,  etc.,  and  all  alike.  Simple 
triangles  may  be  set  up  on  edge  around  a  large  dish,  and  fastened  to  stand 
by  dipping  the  bottoms  in  ^^q  and  then  making  the  dish  hot  enough  to  dry 
it  This  makes  a  raised  case,  into  which  a  ragout  like  that  of  the  foregoing 
receipt  may  be  poured.  Or  a  long  and  slender  leaf  shape  may  be  laid  on 
the  small  dish,  projecting  well  over  the  side,  and  the  ragout  of  fricas.se 
dished  upon  the  end  of  it.  All  these  shapes  are  first  to  be  fried,  either  in 
lard  or  the  clear  part  of  melted  butter.  They  take  but  about  one  minute 
in  the  fat,  when  it  is  hot,  and  need  care  to  have  them  all  of  a  nice  even 
color.    Cold  rolls  and  slices  can  be  used  in  similar  ways. 

FISH. 

BoiiiED  Fish  with  Vegetables. — Put  a  whole  fish  in  kettle,  and  cover 
with  stock  made  as  follows :  Fry  in  a  saucepan  two  onions,  a  carrot,  a  piece 
of  celery  or  celery-seed,  a  tablespoon  butter,  one  of  fiour,  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
a  teaspoon  of  whole  black  peppers,  and  three  cloves ;  add  two  and  a  half 
(marts  of  water,  two  teacups  vinegar,  boil  twenty  minutes,  salt  and  skim, 
roar  this  over  the  fish,  and  boil  gently  until  done.  Serve  with  egg  sauce. 
—Mn,  8.  r.,  MohUe,  Ala. 

Browt7  Fish  Soup. — ^Any  kind  of  fish  will  answer,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
roll  in  flour,  and  brown  in  some  olive  oil  or  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  cover 
with  hot  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  boil  slowly  for  about 
fifteen  minutes.  See  that  there  is  plenty  of  water.  One  pound  will  make 
a  quart  of  soup.  A  clove  of  garlic  may  be  added. — Mrs.  F.  H.  if.. 
Mania,  Oa. 


14  FISH, 

Crab  Stew. — One  peck  of  live  crabs,  steam  twenty  minutes,  bone  and 
pick  claws  and  dodies,  stew  witii  one  pint  milk  or  cream  the  flesh  and  e^^gs 
of  the  crab  fifteen  minates ;  flavor  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 

To  Pickle  Crabs. — Soft  crabs  are  delicious  pickled.  Clean«  boil  in  salt 
and  water  until  done ;  take  out  and  drain ;  when  cold  and  dry  put  them  ta 
a  jar  and  cover  with  a  cold  spiced  vinegar  (scalded  with  spices.;  Hard 
crabs  can  l)e  used  this  way. 

BoiledHaddock  WITH  Parsley  Sauce. — ^Take  a  threepound  haddock 
as  soon  as  it  comes  from  market,  wash  it  tlioroughly,  and  lay  it  in  a  large 
pan  containing  plenty  of  cold  water  and  a  handful  of  salt.    When  it  is 
time  to  cook  it,  put  it  into  the  fish-kettle  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover 
it ;  a  gill  of  vinegar ;  a  tablespoonf ul  of  salt,  the  root  of  the  parsle}',  six 
cloves,  and  one  sprig  each  of  thyuie  and  marjoram.  Set  the  kettle  over  the 
fire  and  bring  it  to  a  lx>il.    By  the  time  the  kettle  boils  the  fish  is  usually 
done,  but  it  may  ])e  tested  by  pulling  out  a  fin,  if  the  fin  comes  out  easily 
and  the  flesh  of  the  fish  looks  clear  white,  it  is  done.    Lift  the  kettle  oS 
the  fire,  and  let  tlie  fish  stand  in  tlie  water  until  wanted  for  use.    Make  the 
•  sauce  by  stirring  together  over  the  fire  one  ounce  or  one  tablespoonf  ul  each 
of  butter  and  fiour,  until  they  bubble.    Then  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  or  a  little  more,  if  the  fiour  tliickeus  the  sauce.    Move  the  sauce  to 
the  side  of  tlie  fire,  chop  the  parsley  fine  and  add  it  to  the  sauce  with  a 
saltspoon  each  of  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg ;  the  sauce  will  tlien  be  ready 
to  use.    To  spr\-e  tlie  fish,  take  it  up  carefully  without  breaking,  remove 
the  skin  by  scraping  it  gently  so  as  to  avoid  tearing  the  fish,  pour  the  sauce 
over  it,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  the  table.    Haddocks  are  at  their  best  in 
November,  December,  June  and  July.    But  any  fish  can  be  cooked  by  this 
recipe. — Mrs.  L.  A.^  TvHUihoma. 

Creoled  HALiBirr. — Get  a  thick  square  piece  of  halibut,  wash  and 
place  over  a  baking  dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  chop  a  clove  of 
white  garlic  about  the  size  of  a  bean,and  strew  over  the  fish,  then  put  on  a 
cup  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes.  Bake  until  the  flakes  separate ;  dish  up 
witiiout  breaking.  The  combination  of  garlic  and  tomatoes  gives  the 
name  of  Creole  to  the  dish. 

B-vked  Herri>'gs. — Scale  and  clean  two  pounds  of  lierrings  carefully 
without  washing,  unless  tliis  be  absolutely  necessary.  Sj)lit  them  do'wn 
the  back  and  remove  the  backbones.  S])rinkle  tliem  in.'tide  witli  a  little 
pepper,  salt  and  powdered  mace  mixed  together ;  if  therfe  are  any  roes 
enclose  tliem  in  the  flesh,  and  lay  the  hitter  in  layers  in  a  deep  baking  dish 
with  half  a  dozen  whole  cloves,  the  same  nnnber  of  peppercorns  and  two 
bay  leaves  between  them.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  water  equally  mixed, 
Sftlt  plentifully,  tie  a  sheet  of  oil  paper  over  the  dish,  and  1>ake  one  hour. 
These  are  in  season  in  February,  March  and  April. — Mrs.  Capt.  Howe^ 
Nashville^  Ttnn. 

To  PUT  UP  Herrings  for  Family  Use. — Mix  three  pecks  each  of  fine 
and  rock  salt;  take  one  thousand  herrings,  put  them  loosely  in  layers  with 
salt  between,  after  four  days,  drain  well  and  repack  in  close  layers  on  their 
»  backs  covering  each  layer  with  a  mixture  of  three  pecks  each  of  fine  and 
rock  salt,  one  and  a  half  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  fourth  pound  of  saltpeter. 
Leave  several  months  until  salt  takes  effect. 

To  Boil  Jx)bster. — To  a  gallon  of  water,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a 
teacup  of  vinegar;  when  boiling  plunge  lobster  in  head  first;  boil  thirtv 
minutes ;  remove  cut  off  head  and  small  claws  which  are  never  used ;  crack 
shell  gently  and  remove  meat.    Lobster  can  be  stewed  as  crabs,  or  served 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES.  15 

cold,  with  crab  dressing  and  salad,  or  prepared  according  to  recipe  for 
derilled  crabs. 

Otster  Salad. — ^Three  dozen  fresh  oysters,  two  heads  of  celery  with 
part  of  their  green  tops,  about  half  as  much  tender  white  cabbage ;  after 
washing  the  celery  and  cabbage  tlirow  them  into  boiling  salted  water,  let 
boil  five  minutes,  pour  off  the  hot  water  and  drain  and  chop  them  fine. 
Add  an  equal  quantity  of  vinegar,  some  broken  pepper-corns,  pepper-sauce 
and  salt ;-  put  in  the  oysters  and  keep  shaking  tlie  pan  while  they  are  scald- 
ing that  tliey  may  be  set  in  round  and  plump  shape ;  do  not  let  them  boil, 
drain  and  set  them  away  on  a  dish  to  become  ice  cold.  When  to  be  served 
season  the  chopped  celery  slightly  with  oil  and  vinegar ;  spread  part  of  it 
in  a  dish  or  in  individual  dishes,  place  the  oysters  in  it  side  by  side  and 
the  rest  of  the  celery  on  top  of  them;  smooth  the  top  a  little  and  pour 
mayonaise  sauce,  or  a  tartare  sauce  without  the  minced  onion  or  gherkin, 
over  just  thin  enough  to  run.  Pickled  or  minced  oysters  answer  well  for 
salad  as  above  instead  of  the  fresh. 

Oysters  A2n>  Macaroni. — A  third  of  a  package  of  macaroni,  one  cup 
of  oysters,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  flour,  pepper  and  salt; 
boil  macaroni  alone  in  salt  water  twenty  minutes  and  drain  dry,  butter  the 
bottom  of  a  three  pint  baking  dish  or  pudding  pan,  put  in  half  the  maca- 
roni, strew  oysters  over  it,  and  dot  with  butter,  in  small  pieces,  dredge  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  rest  of  macaroni,  moisten  the  spoonful  of 
flour  wnth  a  little  milk,  beat  in  the  egg,  then  the  rest  of  milk  and  oyster 
liquor,  if  any,  pour  in  the  pan  and  bake  about  twen^  minutes  or  until  set; 
Uie  water  should  be  at  boiling  point  wiien  macaroni  is  first  put  in. 

A  PiLLAU  OF  Fish. — ^Take  two  parts  of  any  kind  cold  cooked  fish,  one 
part  cold  mashed  potatoes;  mince  fish  very  fine  and  mix  with  potatoes  and 
three  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  fine.  To  one  quart  of  this  mixture,  add  table- 
spoon of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  water  (milk  is  better);  season  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt.    Serve  as  soon  as  ingredients  are  well  blended. 

Scallops. — ^The  heart  is  the  only  part  used,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg^ 
then  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard ;  they  can  be  stewed  as  oysters. 
Those  sold  in  markets  are  generally  ready  for  frying  or  stewing,  but  if 
bought  in  shell  boil. and  take  out  hearts. 

Shrimp  Pie. — ^To  two  quarts  peeled  shrimps,  add  one  cup  of  vinegar, 
one  tumbler  catsup  and  two  tablespoons  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
scald  all  together  and  pour  in  an  earthem  dish,  strew  top  with  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Baked  Sheep's  Head. — ^When  ready  for  cooking,  salt  and  pepper  well, 
gash  the  sides  in  three  or  four  places,  mince  four  onions  fine,  add  one  pint 
bread  crumbs,  a  little  finely  mhiced  fat  meat,  yolk  of  two  eggs ;  blend  all 
together ;  season  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  thyme ;  with  this 
■tuff  the  fish  and  fill  gashes  on  the  outside ;  sprinkle  over  wititi  flour  and 
black  pepper;  bake  slowly  in  a  large  pan  with  one  quart  hot  water  two 
hours.    Serve  with  or  without  sauce,  as  liked. 

Smelts. — Salt,  pepper  and  roll  in  salted  meal,  or  better,  egg  and  bread 
crumb  them ;  fry  in  boiling  lard ;  serve  immediately  or  the  crispness  and 
flavor  will  be  lost.  When  designed  to  garnish  a  large  fish,form  them  in 
rings  by  putting  tails  in  mouth  and  securing  with  a  piece  of  polished  wire 
while  frying,  then  withdraw ;  place  these  rings  around  fish,  adding  a 
garnish  of  parsley  and  lemon  slices,  or  serve  nnelts  alone  around  sides  of 
platter  with  a  tomato  or  tartare  sauce  in  the  center. 


10  GAME.     . 

Sturgeon  Steaks.— Skin  steaks  carefully  Bnd  place  in  cold  salt  water 
for  an  hour  to  remove  the  oily  taste ;  wipe  each  steak  dry,  salt  and  broil 
over  hot  coals  on  a  buttered  gridiron.  When  cooked,  butter  and  pepper, 
serve  in  a  very  hot  dish,  garnished  with  parsley;  send  to  table  accompanied 
by  a  small  dish  of  sliced  lemons,  or  sauce  prepared  thus :  Put  a  tablespoon 
oi  butter  into  a  f rj'ing  pan  stirring  until  it  browns,  not  bums ;  wet  with 
cold  water  a  tablespoon  of  brown  flour,  then  stir  in  a  half  tea  cup  boiling 
water  and  add  to  butter,  season  with  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire 
or  ancho\'y  sauce,  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  when  boiled  i)our  over  steaks.  A 
simple  way  to  prepare  anchovy  sauce  is  to  add  a  tablespoon  anchovy  paste 
or  the  extract  to  a  cup  of  dra^Ti  butter,  mix  and  warm  in  stew  pan,  or  soak 
eight  anchovies  in  cold  water  for  several  hours;  cut  up  and  stew  in  very 
little  water  twenty  minutes,  strain  into  a  cup  of  drawn  butter,  heat  all  in 
stew  pan  until  boiling  hot ;  pour  in  tureen,  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  tea 
spoon  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

Virginia  Baked  Sturgeon.— A  piece  of  sturgeon  weighing  five  or  six 
pounds  is  enough  for  a  handsome  dish ;  skin  and  put  in  salt  and  water  for 
thirty  minutes ;  parboil  to  remove  oil ;  prepare  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs, 
fine  bits  of  fat  salt  pork,  sweet  herbs  and  butter;  gash  upper  end  of  fisli 
quite  deeply  and  rub  this  force  meat  well  in ;  place  in  baking  dish  with  a 
little  water  to  prevent  burning  and  bake  for  an  hour.  Serve  with  a  sauce 
of  drawn  butter,  in  which  has  been  stiiTed  a  spoonful  caper  sauce  and  one 
of  walnut  catsup  or  anchovy  sauce.  ,         , 

Turtles.— Boil  one  hour,  take  out  and  remove  skin  from  legs  and  feet; 
place  in  fresh  boiling  water  and  boil  one  and  a  half  hours;  takeout  and 
cool,  when  cold  clean  thoroughly  removing  the  round  liver  which  contains 
the  gall,  cut  meat  into  small  bits,  and  place  into  a  stew  pan  adding  pepper, 
salt  and  eggs  found  within.  For  four  tui-tles  use  one  quart  water,  one  half 
pound  butter,  and  two  tiiblespoons  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water; 
mix  ail  thoroughly,  stew  about  twenty  minutes,  as  you  remove  from  fire 
add  one  half -pint  Maderia  wine. 

Baked  White  Fish. — ^Take  out  lx)ne  and  then  take  off  skin  and  cut  fish 
In  pieces  three  inches  long  and  two  inches  wide.  Use  two  soup  plates  or 
two  deep  earthen  dishes  same  size ;  butter  thickly  with  cold  butter,  place 
in  layer  of  fish,  season  with  peper  and  salt  and  a  little  butter,  then  another 
layer  with  plenty  of  butter  on  last  layer ;  then  butter  inside  of  second  soup 
dish  very  thoroughly  and  turn  it  upside  down  over  the  flsh ;  put  in  oven 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  or  till  flakes  break.  Those  who  use  wine  can 
pour  over  fish  before  baking  a  wine  glass  sherry  or  madeira,  using  less 
butter. 

GAME. 

Opossum.— Scald  with  lye,  scrape  off  hair,  and  dress  whole,  leaving  on 
head  and  tall;  rub  well  with  salt  and  set  in  a  cool  place  over  night;  place 
in  a  large  stone  pan  with  two  pints  water  and  three  or  four  slices  bacon ; 
when  about  half  baked,  fill  with  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper  and  onions  if  liked.  After  returning  to  pan  place  sweet 
potatoes,  pared,  around  the  opossum,  bake  all  a  light  brown,  basting  fre- 
quently with  the  gravy.  When  served  place  either  an  apple  or  sweet 
potatoe  in  its  mouth. — Mrs.  L,  8.  Brcwny  Atlanta^  Go. 

Pigeons  in  Jkllt.— Prepare  some  calf  s  foot  jelly,  season  it  with  pepper, 
salt  and  a  little  mace ;  place  a  layer  of  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  a  bowl ;  when 


POPULAB  DIXIE  DISHES.  17 

nearly  cool  lay  some  nicely  baked  pigeons  upon  it;  then  pour  in  enough 
jelly  to  cover  pigeons;  turn  out  when  cold.  A  beautiful  dish. — Mms 
Tyson^  Va. 

Fkied  Rabbit. — When  nicely  dressed  lay  it  in  a  pan  and  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  add  half  a  teacup  salt  and  soak  over  night.  In  the  momine 
drain  off  water  and  cover  the  rabbit  inside  and  out  with  dry  com  meal  and 
let  stand  till  time  to  cook  for  dinner ;  then  rinse,  cut  up  and  parboil  in 
sligtitly  salted  water  until  tender.  Take  out,  roll  in  corn  meal  and  fry  a 
nice  brown.  An  onion  sliced  and  laid  over  it  while  parboiling,  is  an  im- 
provement for  ihose  who  like  tlie  flavor. 

Rabbits  with  Onions. — Clean  and  truss  the  rabbit  and  put  to  boil  in 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  It;  when  tender  remove  and  fry  in  boiling  lard 
to  a  light  brown ;  remove  from  lard  and  keep  hot  Slice  six  onions  and 
drop  in  boiling  lard ;  when  fried  brown  pour  a  little  boiling  water  in  the 
frying  pan  and  one  table  spoon  browned  flour ;  pour  this  gravy  over  the 
rabbit  and  serve.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  B.  Watson^  New 
Orleans, 

BissoLES  OP  PARTBiixjE. — ^Three  roast  birds,  half  a  cup  mushrooms, 
scant  cup  butter,  same  of  flour,  one  cream  and  one  of  broth  or  water,  little 
nutmeg,  lemon  juice,  i^epper  and  salt;  cut  meat  in  smallest  possible  dice, 
mince  and  add  mushrooms,  sprinkle  with  teaspoon  of  mixed  salt  and 
pepper,  grate  nutmeg  and  squeeze  lemon  over  all.  Make  cream  sauce  by 
stirring  butter  and  flour  together  in  a  sauce  pan,  adding  broth  and  cream 
when  It  begins  to  bubble,  moisten  meat  with  it,  stir  well,  set  aside  until 
cold.  Then  make  into  rolls  size  of  flnger,  roll  first  in  flour,  then  eggs, 
then  crackers,  fry  in  hot  lard ;  pile  in  dish  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley. 
To  fry  parsley,  put  in  wire  basket  and  immerse  in  hot  lard  one  minute, 
must  be  crisp  but  remain  green,  drain  on  a  sheet  of  paper  and  set  a  minute 
in  open  oven. — Mrs.  Harry  Woodliiig^  Charleston. 

Venison  Steak?.— Cut  the>4e  one  inch  thick,  wash  and  wipe  dry  and  broil 
on  a  buttered'  gridiron.  Baste  with  butter  and  turn  often  to  prevent 
burning ,  do  not  cook  over  too  hot  a  flre.  Salt.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  placing 
small  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and  pouring  over  it  a  tablespoon  of  boiling 
water.  To  fry,  put  enough  butter  in  pan  to  make  ona  quarter  inch  thick ; 
let  get  smnking  hot,  then  put  in  venison,  brown,  turn  and  brown  the  other 
side  quickly,  then  add  tablespoon  currant  jelly  for  every  pound  of  vennl- 
8on  and  put  pan  where  not  too  hot  and  cook  till  done ;  if  an  inch  thick, 
about  t^'enty  minutes. 

KIentucky  Sauce  for  Roast  Venison.— A  simple  sauce  of  jelly  and  a 
little  water  is  good,  yet  tlie  following  is  better  •  Put  half  a  stick  of  cinna- 
mon broken  in  bits  and  six  cloves,  with  the  thin  outer  peel  of  halt  a  lemon 
and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar  in  a  stew  pan ;  moisten  with  one 
and  a  half  wine  glasses  of  port  wine,  heat  for  half  an  hour  (do  not  boil)  and 
strain  into  a  stewpan  containing  half  a  glass  of  currant  jelly*  Just  before 
serving  place  over  fire  to  boil  a  moment  to  melt  jelly  and  mix  all  well. 

• 

ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM. 

Bisque  Glace. — ^Two  quarts  cream,  one  and  a  half  dozen  macaroons 
(stale,  or  if  fresh  dried  in  oven)  pounded  fine ;  pour  a  little  cream  over 
them,  let  stand  till  softened ;  mash  very  fine,  add  rest  of  cream  and  sweeten 
to  taste.    Some  use  only  one  dozen  macaroons;  as  judgment  must  be 


18  10 BS  AND  10 E  CREAM 

exercised  not  to  have  miztxiTe  too  thick — Fanny  Morrison^  JaeksoneiU&, 
Florida. 

BuTTKRMn.K  IcK  Cbkam— To  evciy  tea  cut  buttermilk  add  tablespoon 
sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  peach  tree  leaves.  Cheap  but  veiy  good. — 
Mrs,  0.  M.  IkmdsoT^  Oharlottey  N,  C, 

Cabamel  Ice  CKteAM.— One  gallon  rich  sweet  cream,  fourteen  cups  of 
sugar ;  five  tablespoons  of  caramel.  (The  caramel  is  prepared  by  meltinpr 
brown  sugar  with  tablespoon  water  over  a  brisk  fire,  stirring  constantly 
until  dissolved ;  care  must  be  used  not  to  allow  it  to  burn.)  Mix  well  and 
freeze  hard. — Mrs.  Janies  Bundy^  St.  Augustin^y  Florida. 

CocoAiorr  Ice  Cream — One  pound  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  sugar, 
one  pint  cream ;  stir  grated  nut  gradually  into  tlie  cream ;  boil  gently,  or 
merely  heat  to  ertract  thoroughly  tlie  flavor  of  the  nut ;  pour  cream  into  a 
bowl  and  stir  in  the  sugar ;  wheh  cool  stir  In  three  pints  of  fresh  cream 
and  freeze.  —Ilattie  EdinandSy  Lmiwoill^y  Ky, 

Frozen  Custard. — Beat  yolks  of  five  eggs,  add  eight  well  roimded 
tablespoon  white  su^rar ;  boil  a  quart  milk,  stir  witli  it  one  tablespoon  com 
starch  (previously  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk);  when  cooked  until  it 
resembles  cream;  let  cool  and  add  one  quart  cream  and  the  eggs  and 
sugar ;  season  with  lemon  or  vanilla  and  freeze.  Plain  custard  is  also  good 
frozen.  Sliced  peaches  added  just  before  feezing  will  greatly  improve 
this  or  any  frozen  custard;  some  prefer  to  add  fruit  just  before  serving  the 
frozen  cream. — L.  A.  Clarkson^  Atlanta.  Ga. 

Gelatfnb  Ice  C*ream.— -Soak  one  half  package  of  Coxe's  gelatine  in  a 
pint  of  morning's  milk ;  boil  three  pints  milk,  and  while  hot,  pour  on  the 
gelatine,  stirring  well  till  dissolved ;  when  cold  add  two  quarts  of  cream, 
sweeten  and  season  to  tiK^'te;  freeze.  Is  improved  by  reserving  half  of 
cream,  whipping  it  and  adding  when  the  ice  cream  is  just  begmning  to 
"set"— ifr«.  Mqjor  White,  MobiU,  Ala. 

niCKORY  Nut  Ice  Cream. — One  poimd  of  hickory  nut  kernels,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  one  quart  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  biu*nt  brown. 
Pick  over  the  kernels  carefully  for  pieces  of  shell,  then  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  with  a  little  sugar  and  w^ater  added.  Set  two  spoonsful  of  sugar 
over  the  fire  without  water  and  let  it  melt  and  brown.  Pour  in  a  little 
water  to  dissolve  it,  then  add  to  it  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  nut  paste 
and  freeze  in  tlie  usual  manner. — Mamie  Richards,  New  Orleans. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream. — ^Three  different  colored  Ices  placed  In  layers 
in  a  brick-shaped  mold  and  frozen  solid  enough  to  be  cut  In  ^ces.  Nea- 
politan molds  can  be  bought  at  the  house-funiishing  stores.  They  are 
of  about  the  size  and  shape  of  a  cigar  box ;  but  top  and  bottom  can  be 
taken  off;  some  have  the  top  lid  stamped  in  a  fruit  shape  like  a  jelly  mold. 
There  Is  no  particular  rule  as  to  what  kind  of  ices  shall  be  used;  tliere  may  be 
caramel  ice  cream,  which  Is  brown,  or  chocolate,  coffee  or  burnt  almond,  or 
white  pure  cream  or  yellow  custard,  with  a  pink,  red  or  purple  fruit  ice  for 
the  middle  layer.  Make  the  yellow  boiled  custard:  one  quart  of  thin 
cream,  twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  twelve  yolks  of  eggs,  vanilla  l^an  or  extract 
to  flavor.  Boll  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  a  vanilla  bean  in  it.  Beat 
the  yolks  light  and  pour  the  boiling  cream  to  them.  Set  on  tlie  fire  again 
and  boil  for  a  minute.  This  yellow  custard  will  not  become  frothy,  rich 
and  light  in  tiie  freezer  if  cooked  much,  but  should  be  taken  oft  and 
strained  as  soon  as  slightly  thickened.  Set  the  freezer  containing  it  in  its 
tub  and  pack  with  ice  pounded  fine  and  mixed  with  one-fifth  as  much 
coarse  salt    Turn  the  freezer  and  when  the  contents  are  nearly  frozen;  if 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DtSHES.  1^ 

a  common  freezer  is  used,take  off  the  lid  and  beat  up  the  cream  with  paddle 
or  spoon.  Also  make  the  white  ice  cream :  one  quart  of  cream,  twelve 
ounces  of  su^ar,  flavoring  extract ;  mix,  whip  the  cream  partly  to  froth, 
pour  into  a  freezM*  th:it  will  hold  twice  aa  much,  freeze  it  quickly,  and  if 
in  a  common  freezer  turned  by  hand  beat  it  up  light  afterward,  cover  down 
and  let  freeze  again.    For  the  red  make  the  following: 

Concord  Grape  Ice. — Four  ounces  of  Concord  grapes — a  cupful,  one 

X)ound  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  water,  juice  of  one  lemon.    Mash  the  grapes 

and  sQ^ar  together  raw,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  water,  strain  into  a  freezer 

with  all  the  pulp  obtainable  and  freeze  at  once.    The  lemon  juice  brightens 

the  color.    Small  quantities  like  the  preceeding  can  be  frozen  in  tin  pails 

set  in  a  mixture  of  finely  pound(^d  ice  and  salt  in  a  tub,  if  kept  constantly 

in  moticm,  though  proper  freezers,  of  course,  are  better.    AVlien  all  three 

are  frozen  lay  a  sheet  of  thi:i  paper  on  the  bottom  lid  of  the  mold  to  make 

a  tii^ht  fit;  place  the  mold,  spread  in  the  tliree  layers  with  a  spoon  evenly, 

put  on  paper,  tlien  the  lul;  till  the  crevice  along  the  edge  of  the  paper  with 

a  little  melted  butter  to  keep  out  the  salt  water,  then  put  the  mold  down  in 

the  freezing  mixture,  cover  it  well  with  ice  and  salt  and  let  it  remain  two 

or  three  hours.    WHien  to  be  served  wash  off  the  mold  in  cold  water  and 

wipe  dry,  take  off  the  lids  and  paper  and  place  the  tri-colored  brick  of 

cream  on  a  folded  napkin  on  a  dish,  or  a  silver  dish  having  a  perforated 

bottom  drainer.     Where  a  large  quantity  of  this  fashionable  ice  is  made  to 

serve  at  dinners  that  last  for  hours,  tlie  bricks  are  taken  out  of  the  molds 

early,  wrapped  in  manilla  paper  and  packed  in  a  large  ice  cream  freezer, 

there  to  remain  frozen  until  they  are  taken  out  one  by  one  as  wanted. — 

Mrs,  Col,  Bend,  Aftjcon,  Ga. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — ^With  two  quarts  water  mix,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
white  sugar,  juice  of  six  lemons  and  one  ounce  isingla.ss  or  whites  of 
eight  egra  beaten  lignt.    Freeze. — Mrs.  Ja tries  Bir^,  Tuscwnbia^  Ala. 

Pine  Apple  Sherbet. — ^One  pine  apple,  four  lemons,  two  quarts  water, 
two  teacups  sugar;  let  the  apple  stand  in  the  water  for  two  hours;  strain 
and  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  sugar.  Whip  the  white  of  five  e^fi^s, 
add  to  them  three  tablespoons  sugar ;  place  all  in  freezer,  freeze  at  once. 
Adding  the  sugar  to  the  whites  gives  body  to  the  sherbet;  it  is  excellent. — 
Mrs.  M,  B,  SperrJ/y  Nashville,  Tenn. 

Watermelon  Ice. — Select  a  ripe  and  very  red  melon ;  scrape  some  of 
the  pulp  and  use  all  the  water ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze  as  other  ice. 
If  wished  very  light  add  well-frothed  whites  of  three  eggs,  to  one  gallon 
of  ice  just  as  it  begins  congealing;  a  few  of  the  melon  seeds  adds  to  the 
appearance.    Beat  often  with  a  large  spoon. — Mrs.  J.  Janies,  Va. 

PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONERY. 

Cream  Fib. — Butter  size  of  egg,  a  cup  sugar  and  two  eggs  beaten 
together,  add  one-third  cup  milk  and  two  cups  flour  mixed  with  two  tesu 
spoons  baking  powder  before  sifting;  bake  in  two  tins  for  two  pies,  when 
done  cut  smoothly  apart  and  spread  with  this  filling;  one  pint  milk  leavin  ^ 
out  enough  to  wet  half  a  cup  flour,  and  boll  remainder,  two-third  cups 
sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  stir  these  together  and  boil  three  minutes.  Wben 
cold  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  and  spread  between  upper  and  lower 
crusts,  when  cut  smoothly  apart,  ice  the  tops  if  desired. — Mrs.  Oov.  J.  P. 
Knotty  Frankfarty  Ky. 


20  PASTRY  AND  C0NFECTI0NBR7. 

GoosEBBBBT  PiES. — Mix  One  pint  sngar  with  one  of  berrieB,  adding  Just 
enough  water  to  prevent  burning;  cook  until  it  begins  to  jell,  cool  and 
8pre(S  over  shapes  of  rich  pufE  paste,  already  baked.  Kice  spread  with  a 
meringue. 

Virginia  Potatob  Pastk. — Pare  and. boil  mealy  potatoes  quite  soft; 
while  hot  rub  through  a  sive,  put  oven  fire  in  stew  pan  with  water  enough 
to  make  thick  mush,  remove  and  mix  one  quart  flour  with  ihis  into  a  paste, 
knead  until  li^ht,  roll  out  thin,  fill  with  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  boil  in 
cloths  or  cook  in  steamer  for  one  and  a  half  hours  and  serve  with  butter 
and  sugar  or  wine  sauce ;  apple,  blackberries,  or  stoned  cherries  are  best 
for  these  puddings.  The  sheets  of  paste  can  be  spread  with  the  fruit  and 
rolled  like  Jelly  cake;  rhubarb  is  nice  used  this  way  eaten  with  a  very 
sweet  sauce,  l^otato  paste  baked  is  excellent  for  meat  pies. — Jifn.  Johi^ 
Martin^  Richmond^  Vo. 

Silver  Pie.— ^Peel  and  grate  one  large  white  Irish  potato,  add  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  one  teacup 
white  sugar  and  one  of  cold  water;  bake  In  pie  tin  lined  with  nice  paste, 
spread  top  with  a  meringue,  set  in  oven  and  brown,  then  dot  with  small 
bits  of  jelly  or  jam  before  serving. 

Virginia  Sweet  Potatoe  jfiE,  (Virginia  method.) — Pare,  steam  or 
boil,  then  slice  and  put  in  a  S3rrup  of  sugar  and  water  seasoned  with 
whole  cloves  or  allspice  to  suit  taste,  scald  and  set  aside  until  nearly  cool, 
line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  paste,  cover  bottom  with  slices  of  potato  laid 
in  evenly,  pour  in  syrup  enough  to  cover  potato,  add  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  bits  lo  each  pie,  and  if  liked  a  wine  glass  of  Maderia  wine. — JIfrs, 
R,  F.  Hf,  Ft'edericksburf. 

French  Candy. — ^This  recipe  is  used  by  all  confectioners.  The  whites 
of  two  eggs  placed  in  a  tumbler ;  measure  with  your  finger  how  high  it 
comes  up  in  the  glass,  pour  it  out  in  a  large  bowl,  pour  in  the  tumbler  as 
much  cold  water  as  will  be  equal  to  amount  of  the  eggs ;  mix  it  with  them 
and  beat  very  well ;  add  a  desert  spoon  of  vanilla  and  about  two  pounds  con- 
fectioners* sugar  if  you  can  get  it  fit  has  the  appearance  of  flour)  --or 
powdered  sugar  well  sifted ;  beat  well  and  the  foundation  of  all  your  candy 
is  ready ;  take  one  half  pound  dates,  remove  the  stones,  put  in  a  piece  of 
the  candy  dough,  roll  each  one  in  granulated  sugar ;  split  one  half  pound 
figs  and  place  a  layer  of  the  dough  on  a  board,  sprinkled  well  with  powder- 
ed sugar  to  prevent  its  adhereing,  and  then  a  layer  of  figs ;  again  a  layer  of 
dough,  cut  in  squares,  and  that  kind  is  read^.  Nuts  of  any  kind  may  be 
made  up  into  the  candy  Almonds  put  inside  and  then  rolled  In  coarse 
sugar ;  set  each  kind  out  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  For  chocolate  creams, 
roll  any  number  of  balls  from  the  dough,  and  when  the^  are  hardened,  dip 
with  a  fork  into  chocolate  melted  on  the  stove;  be  careful  not  to  allow  it  to 
boil ;  use  baker's  chocolate.  Cocoanut  can  be  made  by  rolling  out  another 
portion  of  dough  on  the  board,  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  it  and  roll  a  few 
times  with  the  roller,  then  cut  in  squares.  A  mixture  of  cocoanut  and  ' 
particles  of  nuts  chopped  fine  makes  a  very  delicious  candy.  The  English 
walnut  makes  a  handsome  addition  if  you  are  to  give  boxes  of  this  candy 
as  presents  to  friends.  Split  the  walnuts,  shape  some  of  the  dough  into 
round  flat  balls,  and  place  a  leaf  on  each  side ;  press  together  firmly.  This 
candy  is  now  being  made  in  society  circles  a  great  deal,  as  there  is  no 
cooking  to  be  done  and  it  is  very  easy  and  clean  work.  A  dollar's  worth 
of  all  uiese  ingredients  together,  will  make  many  pounds  of  candy. — 3£n, 
Jit*  M*  G»  s 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES.  21 

Peanut  Taffy. — Put  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  and  a  quarter  pound 
Initter  with  two  table8p(X)Ds  water  in  a  skillet;  let  boil  until  taffy  becomes 
«  clear,  dark  color ;  then  stir  in  a  quart  of  peanuts  (toasted  light  brown), 
boil  fifteen  minutes  and  drop  by  tiiblesi)Oonf  uls  on  a  marble  slab  or  griddle. 

Pop-Corn. — Drop  corn  into  a  kettle  containing  a  little  boiling  lard,  cover 
until  popi>ed,  when  done  have  ready  a  rich  syrup  flavored  with  orange  or 
lemon  juice;  when  it  sininu^rs  pour  slowly  over  corn;  take  com  up  in 
large  lumps  and  mould  in  tmlls  or  squares  and  slice  like  cake,  salting  com 
while  hot  before  adding  syrup,  is  liked  by  many ;  soihe  melt  a  little  gum 
arable  in  the  syrup.-   Snlly  Poicera^  Sevo  Orleans, 

PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 

Bkandied  Peaches.  Put  fine  large  freestone  peaches  into  a  weak 
solution  of  hot  soda-water  only  until  the  fur  is  loseued  sufficiently  to  rub 
off  with  a  coarse  cloth,  mnke  a  syrup  of  white  sugar  allowing  half  a  pound 
sugar  to  one  of  fruit,  wlien  boiling  add  fruit  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  re- 
move fruit  and  boil  syrup  fifteen  mfnutes  longer,  or  till  thick,  add  one 
pint  of  brandy  for  eacli  i)Ound  of  fruit  and  take  syrup  at  once  from  fire 
and  i>our  while  hot  over  fruit,  (in  glass  jars,)  and  seal;  if  a  reddish  juice 
oozes  from  fruit  while  draining,  pour  it  off  before  adding  clear  syrup; 
pears  must  be  pared  with  a  knife  before  being  ]>randied.  Plums  and 
appricots  are  brandied  by  this  receipe  pricking  before  dropping  in  sjTup 
to  prevent  bursting;  the  large  amber  colored  and  blue  are  best.  Cherries 
are  similarly  brandied  usin^  however,  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit ; 
use  the  short  stemmed  bright  red  cherries  in  bunches,  not  too  ripe  lest 
skins  crack ;  be  careful  to  cork  all  fruits  tightly. — MrB.  Judge  W.  Jonea^ 
St.  Joe,,  Mo. 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches. — Prepare  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  one 
quart  best  cider  \inegar  to  tliree  pints  brown  sugar ;  boil  and  skim.  Peel 
fruit  by  placing  in  a  wire  basket,  plunging  into  boiling  hot  water,  then  in 
cold  water,  ^  as  to  readily  remove  skin;  to  spice  use  t^vo  teaspoons  of 
whole  cloves  and  four  sticks  of  cinnamon  to  a  gallon  of  fruit;  many  pre- 
fer to  stick  a  few  cloves  in  ea<*h  peach  and  add  broken  cinnamon  to  s3Tup. 
Throw  peaches  in  boiling  syrup  for  five  minutes,  remove  them  into  a  jar, 
boil  syrup  until  quite  thick,  pour  over  fruit  and  tie  covers  on  jars;  this  is  a 
German  style  of  preparing  them. — L.  A.  Clarkson^  Atlanta-,,  Ga. 

Oreen  Tomato  Preserves. — Make  a  syrup  of  seven  pounds  sugar; 
take  eight  pounds  small  green  tomatoes,  pierce  with  a  fork  and  add  when 
syrup  boils ;  add  juice  of  four  lemons  and  one  ounce  of  mace  and  ginger, 
mixed.  Boil  all  slowly  until  fruit  is  clear,  then  remove  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  cool  on  dishes;  boil  syrup  till  thick,  put  fruit  in  jars  and  cover 
with  hot  syrup.  A  favorite  preserve,  and  very  nice  if  directions  be  strictly 
followed. — Jf.  Ilarlandy  Virginia. 

Walnut  Catsup. — Crush  to  a  pulp  one  fourth  peck  of  green  nuts  size 
of  hickory  nut,  rind  and  all,  place  in  a  stew  jar  and  cover  witli  strong 
vinegar,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  put  in  a  stout  cloth  and  ])ress  all 
juice  out,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  clarifjdng  with  beaten  white  of  an  es:^,; 
before  boiling  begins,  while  boiling  add  pepper  and  allspice  to  taste,  tied 
in  a  bag,  when  cool  add  fresh  vinegar,  if  needed,  as  without  it  may  be  too 
bitter  to  bottle ;  put  two  or  three  cloves  of  garlic  to  each  bottle  and  cork 
tightly.  It  keeps  for  years — ^virtue  increasing  with  age ;  this  is  unrivalled. 
Taken  as  a  medicine  for  cough,  it  is  mostezcellont;  dose,  a  teaspoon  three 
times  a  day. 


32  PBB8EBVE8  AND  PICKLE8. 

PUDDINGS. 

Almond  Pudding. — Blanche  a  pound  of  almonds;  beat  to  a  paste,  adding^ 
gradually  two  tablespoons  of  rose  or  orange  water  to  prevent  their  oiling. 
With  these  stir  two  tumblers  rich  cream,  two  wine  glasses  milk,  two  of 
wine,  ten  eegs,  well  beaten,  one  tablespoon  arrowroot  flour,  one  of  bread 
crumbs.  Boil  or  steam  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  arrowroot  sauce. — 
Mr9,  A.  P.  IL 

Afplb  Charlotte. — Trim  crust  from  slices  of  bread,  dip  in  clarified 
butter  and  fit  them  |>erfectly  into  a  tin  mold.  Fill  to  top  with  stewed 
apples  or  apple  marmalade ;  cover  with  slices  of  bread  dipped  in  the  butter, 
then  with  plate  placing  a  weight  on  top;  bako  in  quick  oven;  when  nearly- 
done  plate  may  be  removed.  Charlotte  may  be  sprinkled  with  cinnamoa 
and  sugar  and  browned.  If  bread  is  not  well  fitted  together  juices  will 
escape  and  ruin  oppea ranee  of  charlotte.  Serve  with  cream  sauce  or  with- 
out as  liked.  Any  jam  or  preserve  will  do,  but  apple  sauce  or  marmalade 
is  best  To  make  the  marmalade,  stew  three  pounds  of  pared  tart  apples 
with  one  pound  of  sugar  one  third  pound  of  butter,  season  with  lemon  if 
liked.  Stew  gently  until  a  marmalade  is  formed— i2u<A  Soyal^  Allofnia,  Oa, 

Deuoious  Apflb  Pudding. — Three  egips,  one  cop  each  of  sugar  and 
sweet  milk,  one  third  onp  of  melted  butter,  one  and  a  third  cups  of 
apples,  one  teaspoon  essence  of  lemon;  baked  in  pastry.  This  quantity 
will  make  two  plates. — Mrs.  M,  M,  D, 

Cabinet  Pudding. — Sheet  of  sponge  cake  and  one  half  pound  French 
candied  fruit,  apricot,  pear,  cherries,  a  lime,  and  ounce  citron ;  cut  citron  iu 
shape  of  leaves.  Butter  tin  mold  thickly  with  cold  butter,  press  the  fruit 
in  any  pretty  designs  on  bottom  and  sides  of  mold,  using  large  fruits  for 
centers  and  citron  leaves  around.  Cut  sponge  cake  to  fit  bottom  of  mold 
over  the  fruit,  and  also  line  sides  with  the  cake,  then  put  in  some  of  the 
fruit  (cherries),  then  another  layer  of  cake,  then  fruit,  etc.,  with  last  layer 
of  cake,  pressing  cake  firmly  in  the  mold.  Make  custard  of  one  pint  milk, 
six  eggs  and  quarter  pound  sugar.  Put  custard  in  a  pitcher  and  pour 
slowly  in  the  mold  Tetting  part  of  custard  entirely  absorb  before  adding  the 
rest  When  all  added,place  mold  in  steamer  or  in  sauce  pan  two-thirds  full 
of  water  and  steam  till  firm,  about  an  hour  and  a  Ju.lf.  To  test  run  a  fork 
or  small  knife  down  through  thickest  part,  if  any  liquid  appears  must  cook 
longer.  "When  done  take  fron  mold,  top  side  down  and  serve  with  pow- 
dered sugar.  To  make  a  plainer  pudding,  use  bread  instead  of  cake  and 
raisins,  currants  and  citron  instead  of  French  fruits. — Mi$s  Juliet  Corson. 

Christiana  Pudding. — Put  a  layer  of  sliced  bread  or  biscuit,  first 
dipped  well  in  boiling  sweet  milk,  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  prune 
sauce  made  as  for  eating,  only  seeding  the  prunes,  then  bread  and  so  on 
till  the  dish  is  full,  bread  on  top,  having  sprinkled  each  layer  with  a  little 
sugar;  pour  over  this  the  prune  juice  and  the  remainder  of  scalded  milk. 
To  make  it  richer,  bits  of  butter  may  be  added  to  each  layer ;  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  from  three  quarters  of  nn  hour  to  an  hour.  When  cold  turn 
out  in  a  dish  and  spread  whipped  cream  on  top,  or  it  may  be  served  hot 
with  a  sauce  or  spoonful,  of  whipped  cream  to  each  dish.  This  is  a  splen- 
did pudding,  wholesome  and  inexpensive. — Mi8s  Olga  OoUersrud^  Chris- 
tiana, 

Copenhagen  Pudding. — Pare  and  eighth  seven  large  tart  apples,  makes 
two  quarts  of  cut  apples,  put  in  a  sauce  pan  with  one-half  cup  water ;  let 
cook  till  tender,  then  stir  in  two  tablespoons  butter  and  half  teacup  sugar, 


POPULAR  DIXIE  DISHES.  28 

vilxing  and  mashing  thoroughly.  Put  this  as  the  bottom  layer  in  a  dish  in 
which  the  pudding  is  to  be  served.  Then^  put  in  spider  two  and  a  half  tear 
spoons  butter,  and  when  melted  add  one  and  half-cups  dry  bread  crumbs 
one  half  teacup  sugar  and  one  half  pound  (in  the  shell)  almonds  blanched 
and  finely  chopped ;  stir  this  constantly  for  about  ten  minutes  or  till  well 
mixed ;  place  tiiis  while  hot'  as  the  second  layer  in  the  dish,  then  in  their 
season  take  one  quart  of  blackberries  and  one-half  teacup  sugar  and  cook 
to  a  jam  or  in  winter  to  a  jelly  glass  of  jam  (or  any  fruit  may  be  used); 
spread  this  for  the  third  layer.  AH  these  can  be  prepared  tlie  day  before 
using;  before  serving  cover  with  a  pint  of  cream  well  whipped  and  sweet- 
ened to  taste,  tablespoon  sugar,  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  This  fills  a  two 
quart  dish  and  is  sufficient  for  twelve  or  fourteen  persons,  and  is  a  delicious 
/dessert. — Mrs,  Mena  Jensen^  Oopenhagen. 

Cork  Meal  Pudding. — Scald  one  quart  milk,  add  one  teacup  com  meal, 
boil  a  few  moments  and  add  one  quart  cold  milk,  two  thirds  cup  sugar,  two 
•ggs  and  a  little  salt.  Raisins  improve  it.  Bake,  stirring  occasionally. — 
Mr».  McCarty^  Knaxmlle^  Tenn. 

Dixie  Pudding. — ^l^ake  light  bread,  slice,  trim  off  crusts  and  cut  into 
j^ieces  about  two  inches  square ;  take  green  gage  plums,  remove  seeds, 
■lake  very  sweet  and  spread  over  the  bread  squares.  Whip  thick  sweet 
cream  till  stiff  as  in  this  manner ;  have  cream  ice-cold  and  it  is  well  to 
•et  on  ice  while  whipping,  whip  to  a  froth,  let  stand  a  moment  or  two  till 
air  cells  form,  then  skim  off  froth  into  a  sieve  placed  in  a  bowl,  whip  the 
rest  of  cream  and  treat  froth  as  before;  continue  till  all  the  cream  is 
whipped,  having  poured  back  tlie  cream  that  drips  into  bowl ;  sweeten  and 
iavor  with  Manilla;  just  before  serving,  place  the  squares  in  a  desert  dish 
and  cover  each  one  with  whipped  cream.  A  very  showy,  excellent  dish 
and  when  sponge  cake  squares  are  used  in  place  of  bread,  very  elegant  and 
delicious. — Mrs.  Col.  Liggett. 

Fruit  Pudding. — Half  a  pint  each  of  molasses  and  sugar,  half  a  cup 
of  butter  and  sour  milk;  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, nutmeg  and  raisins  to  taste,  and  fiour  to  make  a  stiff  batter; 
pour  mixture  in  a  butteied  cake  pan,  cover  tightly  and  steam  two  hours. 
Ik}  not  remove  lid  until  ready  to  serve.  Serve  with  any  sauce  liked. — 
^* A  If ew  Orleans  Housekeeper.^'*  •  ' 

Plum  Pudding.— Stone  a  pound  of  raisins.  Prepare  a  pound  of  zante 
currants  by  putting  them  into  a  colander  witli  holes  not  too  large,  set  that 
in  a  pan  half  full  of  warm  water  and  stir  the  currants  vigorously.  Pour 
off  the  water  two  or  three  times  (the  dirt  will  go  through  the  holes.  Spread 
the  currants  in  a  baking  p.m.  Pick  over  and  let  dry  in  oven  watching 
carefully;  mince  and  slired  a  pound  of  beef  suet.  Mix  with  these  in  a 
large  pan  a  pound  of  st;ile  bread  crumbs  and  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour. 
Beat  together  in  another  pan  the  yolk  of  six  eggs,  add  three  quartern  pint 
of  creain  or  milk,  then  the  well-frothed  wiiites  and  pour  this  over  the  suet, 
flour,  etc.,  and  stir  and  mi.\  t\w  wliole  well  together,  adding  one  gratod 
■utmeg,  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  half  toa-spoonful  each  ginger  and  ground 
cloves,  teaspoonful  salt,  one  pound  pulverized  sugar.  Boil  briskly  six 
hours  in  a  cloth  dipped  in  boiling  water  and  then  flour  thickly  on  tlie  inside 
or  in  an  ornamental  mold  tied  up  in  aclotli.  Have  a  large  pot  with  plenty 
of  water.  To  take  out  of  pot  without  breaking,  dip  into  cold  water  for  a 
minute  or  two,  then  place  it  in  a  round,  bottomed  basin  that  will  just  hold 
it  Untie  the  cloth  and  lay  bare  the  pudding  down  to  the  edge  of  the  ba.sin 
then  place  upon  it,  upside  down,  the  dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  served  and 


24  80UPS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

invert  the  whole  so  that  the  paddins:  may  rest  on  the  dish,  lift  off  basin 
and  remove  cloth.  The  use  of  the  cold  water  is  to  chill  and  solidify  the 
surface  so  that  it  may  part  from  the  clotli  smoothly.  Plum  pudding  may 
also  be  baked  (two  hours)  or  steamed  (three  hours),  m  a  well  buttered  mold 
or  pan,  but  it  is  then  better  with  ti^'o  teaspoonf  uls  baking  powder. 

SOUPS  AND  VEGETABr.ES. 

Gumbo  Fillet. — Joint  and  dredge  well  with  flour  a  full  ^rown  chicken; 
put  in  a  pot  witli  sufficient  lard  to  fr}'  it,  adding  a  sliced  onion.  B©  care- 
ful not  to  burn  it.  Wien  fried,  add  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  a  slic^  of 
■Jiam  trimmed  free  from  the  coarse  fat,  salt,  black  and  red  pepper,  a  few 
cloves  and  grains  of  allspice  if  liked;  stew  until  soup  is  rich  with  pieces 
of  chicken;  turn  into  tureen  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  fillet  if  fresh,  two 
if  not  fre»sli ;  stir  well  to  avoid  lumping,  and  do  no.t  cover  after  adding 
fillet;  add  as  many  oysters  as  you  please;  they  must  previously  be  cooked. 
but  not  more  than  five  minutes.  The  soup  is  best  made  by  adding  liquor 
of  one  quart  of  oysters  to  two  quarts  boiling  water.  Fillet  is  pulverized 
sassafras  leaves  dried  and  sifted;  can  be  made  at  home  readily. — iVrs.  S.,  La. 

To  Can  Corn. — Put  the  corn  raw  into  tin  cans,  then  fill  with  cold  water 
even  with  the  top  of  the  com;  solder  up  tlie  can,  pricking  a  small  hole  in 
the  cover.  Solder  that  also.  Boil  the  cans  and  contents  in  boiling  water 
two  and  a  half  hours;  then  with  a  hot  iron  open  the  small  hole  and  let  the 
gas  blow  out,  after  which  solder  up  and  boil  again  two  and  a  half  hours 
and  set  away  for  use.  Peas,  string  beans  and  Lima  beans  can  be  put  up  in 
tlie  same  way. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — Boil  or  stew  large  potatoes  until  nearly  done ;  take 
out,  peel  and  slice,  not  quite  half  an  inch  thick.  Put  in  baking  pan  with 
very  little  water ;  sprinkle  thickly  with  white  sugar  and  spread  each  slice 
with  butter ;  brown  in  oven.  Carolina  style  and  a  favorite  dish  all  over  the 
South.— ifVv.  EckfcTd,  AtlarUa,  Go. 


A  TEAR'S  BILL  OF  PARE. 


The  following  airangement  of  "  Bills  of  Fare"  for  every  day  in  the  year 
was  arranged  for  the  latitude  of  Waahington— aa  nearly  a  medium  as  could 
be  found— by  a  lady,  Southern  bom  and  bred,  who  now  resides  in  that  city. 
Housekeepers,  North  and  South,  can  easily  adapt  it  to  their  own  peculiar 
wants,  and  will,  we  belieye,  find  it  suggestive  and  helpful. 

The  recipes  referred  to  are  all  contained  in  this  book,  and  may  be  quickly 
found  by  reference  to  the  alphabetical  index.  The  bills  of  fare  are  not,  of 
course,  arbitrary,  but  are  intended  to  suggest  such  a  variety  as  will  meet  the 
wants  of  the  whole  family.  The  arrangement  was  made  for  a  year  beginning 
with  Thursday.  When  the  current  year  begins  earlier,  the  last  day  or  days 
of  December  may  be  used  to  precede  those  here  given  for  January,  and  the 
dates  changed  on  the  margin  with  a  soft  pencil,  so  that  they  may  be  readily 
erased  and  changed  again  for  subsequent  years.  A  daily  reference  to  these 
pages  will,  we  feel  sure,  save  the  housewife  much  puzzling  over  the  question, 
"What  shall  we  have  for  dinner?" 

For  the  sake  of  brevity,  coffee,  tea,  chocolate,  letnonade  in  hot  weather, 
and  milk  in  cold  weather,  have  not  been  mentioned  in  the  bills  of  fare. 
They  are  of  course  appropriate  to  any  meal,  and  are  to  be  used  according 
to  taste.  Soup,  as  a  regular  dinner  course,  is  always  in  order,  following 
oysters  raw  when  the  latter  are  in  season.  Soups  vary  in  name  far  more 
than  in  quality.  Much  of  the  slop  served  as  soup  a  la  this,  that  and  the 
other,  would  not,  except  for  the  name,  be  recognized  as  something  to  be 
taken  into  the  human  stomach.  This,  however,  may  be  a  matter  of  small 
Importance  when  a  bountiful  dinner  of  good  things  is  to  follow,  but  in 
cases  where  healthy  stomachs  are  demanding  supplies,  a  really  good  soap, 
with  or  without  name,  is  heartily  relished,  and  is  very  wholesome  as  pre- 
paring the  way  for  more  solid  food.  In  any  family  where  soup  is  relished 
a  sufficient  supply  may  be  made  daily,  or  as  often  as  desired,  with  but  little 
trouble  and  trifling  addition  to  the  regular  expenses. 

Fresh  iish,  as  a  separate  course,  comes  next  in  order.  Large  fish  of  some 
sort  are  usually  considered  most  elegant,  either  baked  or  boiled,  for  dinner, 
and  they  are  really  very  nice  when  they  can  be  procured  freshly  killed  and 
dripping  with  their  native  waters. 

Bread  is  always  an  accompaniment  of  every  course  at  dinner,  bread  and 
butter  being  more  properly  a  part  of  dessert  Cheese  is  to  most  persons 
a  pleasant  titbit  at  dessert,  and  pickles,  of  one  or  another  variety,  appro- 
priate to  the  dishes  served,  are  seen  on  the  table  at  nearly  every  meal. 

On  Sunday,  in  most  families,  the  dinner  is  delayed  until  two  or  three 
o'clock  and  the  supper  omitted  entirely,  and  in  winter  when  the  days  are 
abort,  especially  in  the  more  northern  States,  two  meals  a  day  is  the  rule 

(879) 


380  A    YEARS  BILL  OF  FARE, 

for  every  day.  In  large  cities,  too,  where  business  hours  are  fewer,  and 
the  men  of  the  household  lunch  down  town  on  account  of  the  distance 
residences  are  from  business,  the  dinner  is  delayed  until  later  iu  the  day, 
and  the  bill  of  fare  varied  accordingly. 

Fruits,  in  their  natural  state,  are  too  much  neglected  at  the  tables   of 
people  in  moderate  circumstances.     Pies,  puddings  and  other  compounds, 
made  partly  of  fruit,  are  generally  less  wholesome  and  really  less  palata- 
table  than  the  fruit  itself  iu  a  natural  state  or  with-  some  simple  dreasing. 
In  most  localities   berries   in    their  season  are   not  costly.     Strawberries, 
resh,  ri|)e  and  luscious,  for  breakfast,  dinner  and  supper,  can  not  be  snb- 
.stituted  by  any  thing   more  agreeable  and  refreshing,  and  as  the   season 
for  this  fruit   is   always  short  it  is  scarcely  possible   to  weary  of  them. 
Scarcely  less  delicious  are   the  raspberries,  blackberries  and   huckleberries 
which  follow  soon.    Then  come  ripe  watermelons,  cantelopes,  nutmeg  and 
musk  melons  and  grapes,  peaches  and  pears.     Those  who  raise  their  own 
melons  will   need   no  instruction    on  the  subject  of  serving  and   eating 
them.     After  the  fruit  is  well  grown,  a  good  shotgun  and  a  keen  eye  on 
the  ''patch"  is  all  that  is  necessary  to  secure  a  t\\^  crop.    But  to  the 
dainty   housekeeper  who  must   buy  her  melon  after  a  week   or   two  of 
shipping,  reshipping,  trans|x)rting  and  handling,  until  it  has  cost  nearly 
its  weight  in  gold,  the  best  instructions  are:   Get  your  melon  as  fresh  as 
possible;  let  it  remain  on  ice  several  hours  or  all   night;  if  it  cute  crisp, 
and  has  ripe  seeds  and  tastes  well  flavored,  cut  the  ends  off  and  set  up 
on  a  dish ;  divide  both  halves  through  the  middle  and  serve  in  long  slices 
or  cut  in  rings ;  pass  a  waiter  to  receive  the  rinds.     But  if  the   meat  of 
the  melon  api)ears  wilted  or  withered,  or  is  not  perfectly  ripe,  pass  it  to 
the  four-footed  beasts,  where  it  should  have  gone  in  the  first  place.    Thoee 
who  can  afford  the  more  costly  tropical  fruit,  such   as  bananas  and  pine 
apples,  should  slice  them  as  thin  as  ]X)ssible,  place  in  the  prettiest  and 
shallowest  glass  fruit-stands,  and  cover  well  with  sugar  for  some  time  before 
serving. 

Suggestions  for  the  tasteful  decoration  of  tlie  table  will  be  found  under 
"The  Dining  Room." 

BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  JANUARY. 

1.  Breakfast— Waffles,  broiled  steak,  fried  apples.  Dikneb— Roast  dnck, 
ripple  sauce,  a  brown  stew,  mashed  turnips,  sweet  potatoes  baked,  celery; 
prairie  plum  pudding  with  sauce,  fruit  cake,  oranges.  Supper— Light  bis- 
cuit, whipped  cream  with  preserves,  sliced  beef.  For  more  elaborate  bill  of 
fare  see  page  531. 

2.  Breakfast — Corn  muffins,  broiled  fish,  fried  raw  potatoes.  Pinnxb— 
Macaroni  soup,  salmi  of  duck,  potatoes  roasted,  oyster  salad,  canned  peas, 
celery  sauce ;  pumpkin  pie.  Supper— Toasted  muffins,  shaved  dried  beef, 
tea  rusk,  baked  api)les. 

3.  Breakfast— Breakfast  wheat,  pig's  feet  souse,  breakfast  potatoes.  Diw- 
KER— Boiled  bacon  with  cabbage,  potatoes,  turni]^,  carrots,  onion  sauce, 
chicken  pie ;  bread  pudding  with  sauce.  Supper— Biscuit,  coW  bacon  shaved^ 
bread  and  milk,  sponge  cake  and  jelly 


A    YEAR'S  BILL  OF  FAME,  381 

4.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Buckwheat  cakes,  croquettes  of  sansage  meat, 
breakfast  hominy.  Dinner— Koatd  turkey,  mashed  potatoes,  Lima  beans, 
cranberry  sauce,  celery ;  miiice  pie,  ambrosia,  cake.  Supper-— Cold  biscuit, 
sliced  turkey,  cranberry  jelly,  apple  sauce. 

5.  BsBAKFAST — Hot  rolls,  fried  tripe,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — Escaloped 
turkey,  baked  potatoes,  pickled  beets ;  cottage  pudding,  cake.  Suppkr — Cold 
rolls,  dried  beef  frizzled,  hot  buns,  fried  apples. 

tj.  Breakf.vst — Gnihani  gems,  broiled  mutton,  potatoes  a  la  pancake.  Din- 
XKR — ^Turkey  soup,  roast  beef  with  potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes,  celery ;  rice 
padding,  fruitcake.  Suppeu — C^old  buns,  sliced  beef,  Indian  pudding  (corn 
mush)  and  milk. 

7.  BKEAKPA.ST — Buttered  toast,  fried  mush  and  maple  syrup,  fried  liver. 
Di25NKR — Meat  pie  with  chili  sauce,  mashed  turnips,  stewed  corn ;  apple 
duiuplinss  with  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Tea  roils,  sardines  with  sliced  lemon, 
rask,  jelly. 

8.  Breakfast — Beat  biscuit,  broiled  steak,  ringed  potatoes.  Dinner — 
Baked  chicken  garnished  with  fried  oysters,  potatoes  in  their  jackets,  cran- 
berry sauce,  tomatoes,  slaw;  molasses  pudding,  lady  fingers.  Supper — Cold 
biscuit,  Ixjned  chicken,  sponge  cake,  canned  peaches. 

9.  Breakfast — Toast,  fried  fish,  potatoes  fried.  Dinner — Stuffed  baked 
rabbit,  whole  boiled  potatoes,  salsify  stewed,  celery  sauce ;  apple  float,  pump- 
kin pie,  cake.     Supper — French  rolls,  cold  tongue,  sliced  oranges. 

10.  Breakfast — Bread  puffs,  broiled  sausage,  whole  potatoes  fried.  Din- 
ner— Saturday  bean  soup,  fried  mutton  chops,  plain  boiled  rice,  potatoes 
baked,  beet  salad ;  March  pudding  with  sauce,  fruit  meringue.  Supper — 
Plain  bread,  bologna  sausage,  jelly  cake. 

11.  Sujifkiy.  Breakfast — Baked  beans  and  brown  bread,  fried  potatoes. 
Dinner — Roast  goose,  steamed  potatoes  and  turnips,  slaw,  onion  sauce,  plum 
jelly;  mince  pie,  jelly  tarts,  oraliges,  cakes.  Supper— -Cold  biscuit,  cold 
goose,  apple  jelly. 

12.  Breakfast— Oatmeal  porridge,  hashed  goose  with  gravy,  plain  bread. 
.   Dinner — Roast  mutttjn,  potatoes,  canned  peas,  caper  sauce ;  delicious  lemon 

pudding,    sponge    cake.     Supper — Graham  gems,  sliced  mutton,    currant 
jelly. 

13.  Breakfast — Corn  batter  cakes,  croquettes  of  mutton  or  pates  hot  with 
eravy.  Dinner — Boiled  beef  with  soup,  potatoes,  'parsnips,  chili  sauce; 
baked  custard,  jelly  cake.    Supper— Dry  toast,  sliced  beef,  canned  fruit. 

14.  Breakfast — Stewed  kidneys,  Graham  bread,  fricasseed  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Oyster  pie,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  salsify,  celery;  apple  pie  with  cream. 
Supper — ^Toasted  Uraham  bread,  dried  beet,  apple  fritters  with  sugar. 

15.  Breakfast— vSally  Lunn,  hash,  cracked  wheat  and  cream.  Dinner — 
Roast  duck,  potatoes,  winter  succotash,  onions  baked,  celery;  cocoanut  pud- 
ding, oranges,  jelly  cake.  Supper — Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  cold  duck,  plain 
rice  with  cream. 

16.  Breakfast — Rice  cakes,  spare  ribs  broiled,  fried  raw  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Baked  fish,  canned  corn,  tomato  sauce,  fricassee  of  salmon  or  halibut, 
baked  potatoes ;  tapioca  pudding.  Supper — Warm  rolls,  cold  pressed  meat, 
orange  short  cake. 

17.  Breakfast — ^Waffles,  mutton  chops  broiled,  potatoes  fried.  Din- 
ner— Chicken  pot-pie,  canned  beans,  celery ;  peach  rolls,  oranges.  Supi?er — 
Tea  rolls,  bologna  .sausage  sliced  and  toasted,  apples. 

18.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Muffins,  broiled  steak,  stewed  tomatoes.  DiN- 
VSR — Roast  pork  with  parsnips,  potatoes  mushed,  apple  sauce,  celery ;  cold 
ftpple  pie,  nee  snow.  Supper — Muffins,  cold  chicfeen,  canned  fruit,  light 
cake. 

19.  Breakfast — Fried  sausage,  buckwlieat  cakes,  potatoes  a  la  ducliesse. 
Dinner — Roast  beef,  baked  potatoes,  tomatoes,  beet  salad ;  apple  dumplings 
with  sauce,  cake.  Sittper— Cold  rolls,  sliced  beef,  stewed  apples,  musn  and 
Qiilk. 


382  A   YEARS  BILL  OF  FARR 

20.  BREAKPABT^Plain  bread,  fried  mush,  pig's  feet  souse.  Dinvkb— Boiled 
leg  of  mutton  with  soup,  potatoes,  boiled  tongue  dressed,  canned  com,  cel- 
ery sauce;  pumpkin  pie,  cake.  Supper— Hot  biscuit,  cold  tongue,  apple 
fritters  with  sauce. 

21.  Breakfast— Hot  rolls,  mutton  croquettes,  Sweeties'  favorites.  Dm- 
NBR — Meat  pie,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  canned  succotash,  cabbage  salad; 
hot  peach  pie  with  cream.  Scpper — Cold  biscuit,  sliced  tongue,  buns,  apples 
and  jelly, 

22.  Breakfart — Corn  cakes,  broiled  steak,  potato  croquettes.  Diitnkb — 
Boast  duck,  potatoes,  salsify,  onion  salad,  cranberry  jeli^ ;  bread  pudding 
with  sauce.     Supper — Beefsteak  toast,  cold  duck,  currant  jelly. 

23.  Breakfast — Buckwheat  cakes,  broiled  fish,  potato  balls.  Dinner — 
Oyster  pie,  mashed  potatoes,  baked  beets,  celery  sauce ;  chocolate  pudding, 
oranges.    Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold  pressed  meat,  bread  and  milk. 

24.  Breakfast — Breakfast  wheat,  broiled  spare  ribs,  tomato  sauce.  Dzh< 
ner— Boiled  ham  with  cabbage,  potatoes,  parsnips,  carrots,  beets;  warm 
pie  of  dried  fruit.     Supper — Hot  rolls,  shaved  ham,  fried  apples. 

25.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Muffins,  broiled  tenderloin,  cabrage  hash.  Din- 
ner— Stewed  oysters,  roast  turkey  with  potatoes,  turnips,  Lima  beans,  apple 
sauce,  celery ;  mince  pie,  ride  snow.  Supper — Muffins,  cold  turkey,  canned 
fruit,  tea  cakes. 

26.  Breakfast — Corn  batter  cakes,  croquettes  of  turkey,  hominy.  Din- 
ner— Boiled  corned  beef  with  turnips,  potatoes,  carrots,  horseradish  sauce ; 
sago  pudding.    Supper — Light  biscuit,  sliced  corned  beef,  baked  apples. 

27.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  broiled  mutton,  potatoes.  Dinner — Enseal- 
oped  turkey,  baked  potatoes,  split  peas,  onion  salad ;  prairie  plum  puddihg 
with  whipped  cream.  Supper — ^Toasted  gems,  paUs  of  cold  turkey,  tea  rusk, 
jelly. 

28.  Breakfast — Waffles,  broiled  beefsteak,  potatoes.  Dinner — Chicken 
boiled  with. soup,  whole  potatoes  boiled,  plain  lK>iIed  rice,  cabbage  salad ;  ap- 
ple pie,  cake.    Supper — Vienna  rolls,  cold  chicken,  canned  fruit,  cake. 

29.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  broiled  sausage,  fricasseed  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Roast  beef,  potatoes,  chicken  salad,  cranberry  sauce,  celery;  plain 
boiled  pudding  with  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Plain  bread,  cold  beef,  rice  frit- 
ters with  jelly. 

30.  Breakfast — Oat  meal  porridge,  panned  oysters  on  toast,  fried  raw  pota- 
toes. Dinner — Baked  fish,  mashed  ])otatoes,  mayonnaise  of  salmon,  stusifY 
stewed,  cranberry  sauce;  brown  betty,  cake.  Supper — Light  biscuit,  tak 
balls,  apple  fritters  with  sugar. 

31.  Breakfast — Sally  Liinn,  pork  steak,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Fillet 
of  beef  stuffed  and  baked,  potatoes,  cabbage  salad,  beets ;  baked  apple  dump- 
lings, cake.    Supper— Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  cold  beef,  apple  croutes. 

BILL  OF  FARE   FOR  FEBRUARY. 

1.  Sundap.  Breakfast— Hot  rolls,  broiled  sirloin  steak,  Saratoga  potatoes. 
Dinner— Chicken  pie  with  oysters,  roast  potatoes,  salsify,  dried  Lima  beans, 
lobster  salad,  currant  jelly ;  orange  pudding,  fruit  cake.  Supper — Cold  rolls, 
cold  tongue,  cake  and  jelly. 

2.  Breakfast— <^orn  pone,  stewed  tripe,  potatoes  a  la  I/yannuise.  Dinner — 
Whole  boiled  potatoes  and  carrots,  bakea  heart,  stewed  tomatoes;  canned 
fruit  a»id  cake.  Supper — Toasted  pone,  cold  heart  sliced,  plain  bread,  quince 
preserves  with  whipped  cream. 

3.  Breakfast — Buckwheat  cakes,  broiled  sausage,  breakfast  hominy.  Din- 
ger— Roast  mutton,  mashed  potatoes,  baked  macaroni,  celery,  currant  jelly ; 
chocolate  blanc  mange,  sponge  cake.  Supper — Cold  mutton  sliced,  curmiit 
jelly,  buttered  tonst,  rusk,  stewed  apples. 

4.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  broiled  bacon,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Boiled  corned  beef  with  horseradish  ^sauce,  whole  boiled  potatoes  and  tni^ 


A    YEARS  BILL  OF  FARE.  383 

tupa  slaw ;  hot  apple  jne  wilh  whipped  cream,  oranges  and  cake.    Suppbr— • 
Xoasted  Graliam  breaa,  cold  corned  beef  sliced,  grape  jelly,  hot  buns. 

5.  Breakfast— Broiled  fish,  corn  batter  cakes,  iK)tato  rissoles.  Dinner — 
Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  tomatoes,  canned  beans,  celery  sauce;  tapi- 
oca flout,  cake.  Supper — Cold  roast  beef,  beat  biscuit,  floating  island,  tea 
cakes. 

6.  Breakfast — Broiled  oysters  on  toast,  tomato  sauce,  flannel  cakes  with 
tioney  or  niai)le  svrup.  Dinner — Baked  or  boiled  fish  if  fresh,  or  friccaaee 
if  canned,  iiuislied  i)otatoes,  fried  parsnips,  cabbage  salad  a  la  Mayonnaise; 
apple  dumplings  with  sauce.  8upper — ^Dried  beef  shaved  and  warmed  up 
in  butter,  corn  mush  hot  with  milk,  canned  fruit  and  light  cakes. 

7.  Breakfast — Broiled  mutton  chops,  fried  mush,  scrambled  eggs.     Din 
2fER — Beef   soup,  whc^le    potatoes    boiled,   hani    boiled,  cabbage,   parsnip.**, 
mixed  pickles;  cottage  pudding  with  sauce,  cake.    Supper — Light  biscuit, 
cold  ham  shaved,  apple  croutes,  plain  rice  with  sugar  and  cream. 

8.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  ham  balls,  fried  raw  potatoes. 
Dinner — Oyster  soup,  roast  duck,  potatoes  baked,  turnips  mashed,  cran- 
berry sauce,  celery;  mince-pie,  oranges,  iced  cakes.  Supper— Cold  Sally 
Lunn,  cold  duck,  dried  apples. 

9.  Break pa.st — Breakfast  wheat,  croquettes  of  cold  meat  or  broiled  bacon 
with  potatoes.  Dinner— Baked  potatoes,  apple  sauce,  salmi  of  duck, 
pickled  oysters,  bread  and  apple  pudding  with  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Light 
Discait,  Yankee  dried  beef,  canned  fruit. 

10.  Breakfast — Waflles,  broiled  steak,  breakfast  potatoes.  Dinner — 
Baked  chicken,  potatoes,  salsify,  onion  sanoe,  celerv ;  hot  peach  pie  with 
cream,  chocolate  cake,  oranges.  Supper— Rolls,  cold  chicken,  apple  frit^ 
ters  with  su;j;ar. 

11.  Brevkfast — Graham  gems,  fried  liver,  potatoes.  Dinner — Mutton 
soup,  boiled  mutton  with  caper  .sauce,  potatoes,  canned  peas,  mixed 
picK.'cs;  boiled  fruit  pudding  with  solid  sauce.  Supper — ^Toasted  gems, 
cold  mutton  sliced,  short  cake  and  jam. 

12.  Breakfast — Hot  pates  of  mutton  with  rich,  brown  gravy,  plain 
bread,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Chicken  fricassee,  boiled  tongue  dressed,, 
potat'jes,  boiled  onions,  tomato  sauce;  pumpkin  pie.  Supper — Beat  bis- 
cuit, cold  tongue  shaved,  cream  cakes  and  jelly. 

13.  Breakfast — Corn  muffins,  broiled  fish,  potatoes.  Dinner — Boiled 
turkey  with  oyster  sauce,  mashed  potatoes  and  turnips,  grape  jelly,  celery : 
Toly  poly  of  dried  fruit  with  jelly  sauce,  sponge  cake.  Supper — ^Toasted 
luufiElns,  cold  turkey,  currant  jelly. 

14.  Breakfast— Buckwheat  cakes,  broiled  spare  ribs,  potato  croc^uettes. 
Dinner — Escaloped  turkey,  cranberry  sauce,  boiled  middling  with  cab- 
bage^ potatoes,  carrots,  pickled  beete;  apple  meringue.  Supper— Oatmeal 
porridge,  toasted  crackers,  bologna  sausage,  fried  apples,  cakes. 

15.  San/iay.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  broiled  oysters,  potatoes.  Dinner — 
Turkey  :K)up,  chicken  pie  with  oysters,  potatoes,  Lima  beans,  slaw,  celery ; 
mince  p5e,  cranberry  tarts,  oranges,  cakes.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  sliced  dried 
beef,  custard  cakes  and  jelly. 

16.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  broiled  beef  steak,  fried  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Bean  soup,  roast  beef,  currant  jelly,  potatoes,  turnips;  pie.  Supper — 
Plain  bread,  beef  steak  toast,  rice  fritters  with  sugar. 

17.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  hash,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Koast  pork  with 
sweet  potatoes  or  parsnips,  pudding  of  canned  corn,  pickled  beets,  apple 
costara  pie,  jelly  cake.  Supper — Sardines,  coffee  cakes  or  sweet  buns,  pre- 
served fruit. 

18.  Breakfast — Hot  biscuit,  broiled  pork,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Potato  soup,  mashed  .potatoes,  salsify,  beef  steak  pudding,  celery ;  choco- 
late custara,  golden  cream  cake.  Supper — Cold  biscuit,  cold  tongue,  cup- 
wnt  jelly,  apple  croutes. 

19.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  Katy's  cod  flsh,  fried  potatoes.    Dinnbr— 


384  A    YEARS  BILL   OF  FAME. 

Baked  stuffed  heart,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  celery ;  corn  starch  blanc  mange. 
8uppKB — ^Toasted  Graham  bread,  cold  heart  slic^fd,  dried  fruit  stewed,  tea 
cakes. 

20.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  fried  oysters,  plain  bread.  Dinzeb — Oyster 
pie,  mashed  potatoes,  baked  squash,  tomato  sauce,  slaw;  hot  peach  pie 
with  wiiipped  cream,  cake.  Suppbb — Light  biscuit,  marmalade,  bread  and 
milk. 

21.  Breakfast — Buckwheat  cakes,  broiled  sausage,  hominy.  Dikneb— 
Saturday  bean  soup,  boiled  potatoes,  ham  boiled,  cabbage,  carrots,  celery 
sauce ;  pumpkin  pie.  Suppeb — Plain  bread,  shaved  ham,  lemon  fritters  with 
sugar. 

22.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Baked  l)ean8  and  Boston  brown  bread,  fried 
apples.  Dinner — Oyster  soup,  roust  of  mutton,  baked  j^otatoes,  Lima 
beans,  tomatoes,  salsify,  cranberry  jelly,  celery,  mayonnaise  of  salmon; 
Miince  pie,  ambrosia  and  fruit  cake.  Supper — High  rolls,  mutton,  currant 
jelly,  chocolate  blanc  mange,  assorted  cakes. 

23.  Breakfast — Beat  biscuit,  mutton  warmed  in  butter,  or  broiled  fish, 
•roquettes  of  cold  vegetables.  Dinner— Beef  o  la  modCy  mashed  potatoes 
mnd  turnips,  boiled  rice,  cottage  pudding,  cake.  Supper — Cold  biscuit,  dried 
beef,  apple  tapioca  pudding. 

24.  Breakfast — Rice  cakes,  pigs*  feet  souse,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — 
Chicken  pie,  stewed  onions,  turnips,  pickled  beets;  boiled  batter  puddine 
with  cream  sauce.  Supper — Buttered  toast,  baked  apples  and  whipped 
cream,  tea  cakes. 

25.  Breakfast — Corn  batter  cakes,  broiled  bacon,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — 
ftoast  turkey,  mashed  potatoes,  turnips,  canned  peas,  cranberry  sauce,  celery ; 
BOor  man's  pudding,  cranberry  tarts.  SuppER—Light  biscuit,  cold  tur- 
key, tea  rusk,  canned  fruit 

26.  Breakfast  —  Sally  Lunn,  broiled  steak,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner-— 
Boiled  mutton  with  soup,  mashed  potatoes,  canned  corn,  tomatoes,  celery, 
applesauce;  bread  pudding  with  fruit,  cocoanut  cake.  Supper— Cold  mut- 
ton, toasted  rusk,  jelly. 

27.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  turkey  hash  And  potatoes  rissoles.  Dinner — 
Baked  or  boiled  fish,  meat  pie,  mashed  potatoes,  plain  rice,  salsify ;  prune 

Sudding  with  whipped  cream,  cake.     Supper — Cold  rolls,  fish  balls,  apple 
"itters  with  sugar. 

28.  Breakfast — Bread  puffs,  broiled  spare  ribs  or  bacon.  Dinner — Sat- 
«rday  bean  soup,  boiled  shoulder  or  ham  with  cabbage,  potatoes,  parsnips, 
•arrots,  pickled  beets;  lemon  pie.  Supper — Bread  and  milk  hot,  cold  ham. 
Jelly  and  cake. 

29.  Sunday.  BREAKFAST^Baked  beans  and  Boston  brown  bread,  fried 
•otatoes.  omelet.  Dinner — Stewed  oysters,  baked  chicken,  mashed  pota- 
toes, cabbage  salad,  celery;  cranberry  tarts,  oranges,  cakes  and  nuts. 
Supper — Muffins,  cold  chicken,  grape  jelly,  custard  cake  and  fruits. 

BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  MARCH. 

1.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  chicken  croquettes,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — 
Beefsteak  pudding,  stewed  salsify,  baked  potatoes,*  lobster  salad,  celery; 
•ne-two-three-four  .pudding,  jelly  cake,  nuts,  raisins.  Supper — Light  bis- 
cuit, codfish  with  cream,  canned  fruit  and  plain  cake. 

2.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  broiled  mutton  chops,  fried  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Oyster  soup,  roast  beef  with  potatoes,  kidney  beans  saute^  horserad- 
ish sauce;  cream  pie,  sponge  cake.    Supper — Cold  rolls,  sliced  beef,  jam. 

3.  Breakfast — Udm  muffins,  broiled  fish,  escaloped  eggs.  Dinner — 
Boiled  salt  cod  with  mashed  potatoes,  canned  peas,  cabbage  salad  a  la  May* 
minaiae;  baked  custard,  cake.  Supper — Bologna  sausage  sliced,  broiled  and 
Ibuttered  hot,  plain  bread,  toasted  rusk,  raspberry  jam. 

4.  Breakfast — Muffins,  broiled  beef  steak,  breakfast  hominy.    DiNNnh— 


A  YEARS  BILL  OF  FARE.  386 

Scmp  of  beef  bones  and  vegetables  to  taste,  oyster  pie,  mashed  potatoen; 
stowed  oelery,  pickled  beets;  steamed  batter  pudding  with  rich  sauce,  cake. 
BupPBB — Toasted  muffins,  cold  sliced  beef,  baked  apples  hot,  and  tea  cakes. 

5.  Bbkakfast — Yankee  dried  beef,  poached  eggs  on  buttej'ed  toast,  plain 
bread.  Dinner — Baked  fish,  lemon  sauce,  mashed  potatoes,  spinach,  orange 
pudding  with  jelly  sauce,  cake.  Sdppbr — Plain  bread,  broiled  Scotch  her- 
ring, crackers  split,  toasted  and  buttered,  short  cake  with  jellv. 

6.  Breakfast — Curn  pone  or  griddle  cakes,  fried  beefsteak,  tried  onions. 
DnrMEB — Beef  a  la  mode^  potatoes  Kentucky  style,  carrots  aauU,  cabbage 
daw  with  cream   dressing,  mixed  pickles,  Italian  cream  and   cake.    Sup- 
per— Ck>ld  ))one  sliced  and  tocujted,  or   plain  bread   toast,  cold  beef  slicec 
warm  ginger-bread  and  chocolate  blanc  mange. 

7.  Sunday.    Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  broiled  ham,   tomato  omelet.    Din 
BTBR— Stewed  oysters,  roast  mutton,  mashed  potat  jes,  canned  peas,  currant 
jelly,  celery;    moonshine,  oranges,   nuts   aid   cnkes.    Supper — Cold  meat 
shaved,  tea  cakos  and  preserved  fruit. 

8.  Breakfaht — Batter  cakes,  mutton  warmed  o  /er,  potatoes,  escaloped  eggs. 
Dinner — Boiled  beef's  tongue  dressed  with  s^  uce  piquante,  stewed  pota- 
toes, boiled  onions;  half-hour  pudding.  F upper — Cold  biscuit,  shaved 
tongue,  orange  float. 

9.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  pork  chops  broiled,  hominy  grits.  Din* 
VBR — Tomato  soup,  pigeon  pie,  creamed  potatoes,  canned  corn  or  beans, 
pickles ;  steamed  pudding  with  sauce,  almonds,  raisins.  Supper — Plain 
oread,  sardines  with  lemon,  light  coffee  cake  or  sweet  buns  and  jam. 

10.  Breakfast — Flannel  cakes,  mutton  chops  broiled,  potatoes.  Din< 
NER — ^Beefsteak  soup,  broiled  steak,  potatoes  boiled  whole,  salsify,  oystei 
salad,  sweet  pickles,  transparent  pudding,  cream  puffs,  oranges.  Supper— 
Beat  biscuit,  cold  meat,  apple  fritters  with  sugar,  sponge  cake. 

11.  Breakfast — Graham  oread,  broiled  fish,  potatoes.  Dinner — Corned 
beef  boiled  with  .turnips  or  parsnips,  canned  corn,  boiled  onions,  horse- 
radish sauce;  cocoanut  pie.  Supper — Toasted  graham  bread,  cold  beef 
shaved,  warm  rusk  and  jelly. 

12.  Breakfast — Corn  natter  cakes,  broiled  bacon,  boiled  eggs,  or  omelet 
souMe.      Dinner — Baked   or   boiled    fish   or   steaks   of    lialiout,  masli^d 

gotatoes,  stewed  carrots,  onion  sauce;  eggless  ice  cream,  apples  and  nuts. 
UPPER —  PoJLes  of  fish,  plain  bread,  toasted  rusk  and  sweet  omelet 

13.  Breakfast — Bread  puffs,  fried  liver,  potatoes.  Dinner— Saturday 
bean  soup,  escaloped  ovsters,  tomatoes,  pickled  beets;  kiss  pudding  with 
sauce,  cake.    Supper — French  rolls;  cold  tongue,  bread  fritters. 

14.  Sunday,  Bkrakfast — Baked  beans  with  jwrk  and  Boston  brown  bread, 
omelet.  Dinner — Roast  turkey,  potatoes,  canned  corn,  plum  jelly,  young 
lettuce  broken  up  {not  cut)  heaped  lightly  in  a  dish  and  omaniented  with 
sliced  eggs;  Charlotte  russe,  jelly  and  spongecake.  Supper — Cold  turkey, 
cranberry  jelly,  canned  fruit  jam  and  cake. 

15.  Brkakfaht — Battered  toast  with  {)oached  eggs,  potatoes  Kentucky 
style,  fried  onions.  Dinner — Roast  beef,  potatoes  boiled  in  jackets,  onior 
sauce,  steamed  ri(H.\  mixed  pickles;  birda'-nest  pudding.  Supper — Ligli 
biscuit,  broiled  oysters,  orange  souffle,  and  plain  cake. 

16.  Brf.akfast — Rice  cakes,  breakfast  stew,  baked  eggs.  DiNNER-^Meai 
pie,  mashed  potatoes,  macaroni  with  cheese;  peach  n^lls.  Supper — Plain 
oread,  dried  l)eef,  whij>i)ed  cream  with  preserved  fruit. 

17.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  broiled  beef  steak,  potatoes  a  la  Duchesse 
Dinner — Boiled  leg  of  mutton  with  soup,  potat<»es  Kentucky  style,  baked 
parsnips,  sweet  pickles;  bread  pudding,  cake.  iSuppkr — Cold  rolls,  shaved 
mutton,  boiled  corn  mush  or  hasty  pudding  with  milk. 

18.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  fried  mush,  broiled  bacon.  Dinner — Roast 
duck,  baked  potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes,  currant,  plum  or  grape  jelly;  corn 
•tarch  pie.    Supper — Buttered  toast,  cold  duck,  ielly  and  cream  cakes. 

19.  Breakfast — Graham    gems,    broiled  shad  or  mackerel  with   cream 

25 


386  A  YEARS  BILL  OF  FAER 

dressing  (salt  fi<»h  should  be  gently  steamed,  never  boiled),  boiled    

DiNNBR-— Sidmi  of  duck,  or  duck  pales  hot  with  grayy,  steamed  potatoes^ 
turnips,  celery  sauce ;  rice  pudding  with  custard  sauce,  jelly  cake,  nuts, 
raisins.  Svpfer— Toasted  gems,  bologna  sausage,  tea  buns,  stewed  prunes 
or  other  dried  fruit. 

20.  Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  broiled  mutton  chops,  baked  omelet.  Diw- 
HBR — Bacon  boiled,  cabbage  sprouts,  potatoes,  parsnips,  pickled  beets;  tart- 
lets of  dried  frnit,  warm  ginger-cake.  Supper — Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  coki 
pressed  meat,  rice  fritters  with  sugar,  jelly. 

21.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  ham,  fried  eggs.  Dimnbr — 
Baked  chickens  with  parsnips,  potatoes,  tomatoes,   young  l^tuce  (and  a 

i'.d  tilled  caster) ;  lemoii  custard,  oranges  or  apples.  Supper— Cold  chickeDy 
i  irrant  jelly,  sweet  biscLU  and  canned  fruit. 

22.  Breakfast — Plain  t"ead,  chicken  oo/es  hot,  puff  omelet.  Dinner — 
Roast  of  beef,  potatoes,  toii*atoes,  canned  corn,  Yorkshire  pudding,  pickled 
beets ;  ambrosia,  cake.  Sui  ->br— Buttered  toast,  cold  beef  sliced,  br^d  frit- 
ters with  sugar,  jelly. 

23.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  ried  liver,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — Soup  (made 
of  bones  of  previous  days'  roast  with  vegetables  or  noodles),  oyster  pie. 
mashed  potatoes,  turnips,  celery  sauce;  iced  apples,  cake,  huppsr — Cola 
rolls,  mince  of  cold  beef  escalopedtwith  eggs,  conee  cake. 

24.  Breakfast— Muffins,  broiled  ham,  birds' -nest  of  eggs.  Dinner— 
Boiled  leg  of  mutton,  whole  potatoes,  canned  peas ;  queen  of  puddings  with 
sauce,  cake.  Supper— ^Toasted  muffins,  cold  mutton,  currant  jelly,  Florida 
grape  fruit 

25.  Breakfast  —  French  pancakes,  sausage,  hominy.  Dinner — Roast 
duck,  bread  sauce,  parsnips,  baked  onions,  lettuce;  peach  dumplings'  with 
sauce,  cake.    Supper— Plain  bread,  Welsh  rarebit,  hot  rusk,  marmalade. 

26.  Breakfast— Corn  muffins,  fried  ham  and  eggs.    Dinner — Fresh  fish, 

gotatoes  a  la  ducheste,  salmi  of  duck,  onion  sauce,  Doiled. rice,  grape  jelly; 
read^nd  raisin  pudding  with  sauce,  dried  figs  and  nuts.    Supper — Toastoa 
muffins,  cold  pressed  meat,  cold  rusk,  stewea  fruit. 

27.  Breakfast— Graham  bread,  croquettes  of  fish,  omelet  with  parsley. 
Dinner — Boiled  com  beef,  potatoes,  spinach  or  turnips,  carrots,  horseradiuk 
sauce ;  rice  snow  balls  with  custard  sauce,  canned  fruit  and  cake.  Suppsa 
— ^Toasted  graham  bread,  cold  corn  beef,  oat  meal  porridge  with  cream. 

28.  Easter  Sunday.  Breakfast — ^Broiled  sirloin  steak,  French  rolls,  young 
radishes,  Saratoga  potatoes,  boiled  eggs,  waffles  and  honey.  Dinner— Chickeii 
soup  or  green  turtle  with  Italian  paste,  fresh  fish  boiled  with  drawn  bai« 
ter  and  sliced  eggs,  or  fish  stuffed  and  naked  served  with  lemon  and  pars^ 
ley,  mashed  potatoes,  glazed  ham,  pudding  of  canned  com,  tomato  sauce, 
chicken  salad,  pickles,  celery,  grapne  jelly,  game ;  cream  pie,  assorted  cakeSi 
Easter  jelly  (ornamental)  frozen  custard,  fruits,  nuts  and  cofifbe.  Supper  or 
Luncheon — Cold  rolls,  cream  biscuit,  cold  ham,  currant  jelly,  oysters  bakea 
on  shell,  cakes  and  fruit,  chocolate  or  tea. 

29.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  escalop  of  cold  ham  with  eggs,  potatoea 
Dinner — Roa.st  beef,  potatoes,  turnips,  cabbage  salad;  cottage  pudding  with 
jauce,  cake.    Supper — Warm  bread  and  milk,  cold  meat,  preserved  tarts. 

30.  Breakfast— Corn  cakes,  roulades  of  cold  roast  beer,  potatoes.  Din* 
NBR — Soup,  roast  of  mutton,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  lettuce  dressed ;  lemon  pie. 
Supper — Beat  biscuits,  cold  mutton,  preserved  fruit,  plain  cake. 

31.  Breakfast— Flannel  cakes,  broiled  ham,  stuffed  eggs.  Dinner — Boiled 
tongue,  mutton  stew  with  potatoes,  steamed  rice ;  lemon  pudding,  cake* 
Supper — Cold  biscuit,  shaved  tongue,  rice  fritters  with  sugar. 

BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  APRIL. 

1.  Breakfast — ^Long  breakfast  rolls,  broiled  porter-house  steaks,  homins 
croquettes.    Dinner— Chicken  soup,  chicken  dressed  with  egg  sauce,  whOM 


A    TEAB*S  BILL  OF  FARE.  387 

potatoes,  spinach,  young  lettuce  and  onions,  sweet  pickles;  oranee  float, 
caramel  cake.  Soppeb — Cold  chicken  and  currant  jelly,  cold  rolls,  snow 
costard,  cake. 

2.  Bbbakfast — Fried  frogs,  fried  potatoes,  corn  gems,  boiled  eggs.  Diir* 
ITKB — Beefsteak  soup,  beefsteak  pudding,  steamed  potatoes,  mashed  turnips, 
slaw ;  boiled  custara,  jelly.  Suppeb— -Plain  bread,  pates  of  cold  chicken, 
liot  short-cake  and  jam. 

3.  Bbbakfast — Graham  bread,  veal  cutlets,  fricasseed  potatoes.  Dinneb — 
Hoiled  ham  with  potatoes,  canned-corn  pudding,  parsnips  fried,  mixed 
pickles;  hot  pie  of  canned  peaches,  cake.  Suppbb — Graham  toast,  cold 
sliced  ham,  hot  rusk,  stewed  fruit. 

4.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  mutton  chops^  young  rad- 
ishes, puif  omelet.  Dinneb — Beef  soup,  chicken  pie,  potatoes  in  Kentucky 
s^le,  young  lettuce  and  onions;  banana  pie,  mixed  cake.  Sdppeb — Plain 
bread,  sliced  beef,  cold  rusk,  jelly. 

5.  Bbeakfast — Light  rolls,  codfish  with  cream,  fried  raw  potatoes.  Din- 
VBB — Roast  beef,  turnips,  potatoes,  tomato  sauce,  pickled  oysters;  baked 
cnstard,  cake.    Supper — Cold  rolls,  cold  beef  sliced,  maple  biscuit  and  jam. 

6.  Bbbakfast — Muffins,  fried  liver,  fried  potatoes.  Dinneb—  Mutton  soup, 
mutton  garnished  with  eggs,  pickles,  creamed  potatoes,  canned  tomatoes; 
bread  pudding  with  sauce,  oranges  and  cake.  Suppeb — Toasted  muffins, 
sliced  mutton,  sponge  cake  and  jelly. 

7.  Bbbakfast — Flannel  cakes,  minced  mutton  or  broiled  chops,  breakfast 
potatoes.  Dinner — Baked  pig,  mashed  potatoes,  parsnips  fried,  lettuce; 
lemon  pudding,  jelly  cake.  Suppeb — Yankee  dried  beef,  soda  biscuit  and 
honev,  floating  island. 

8.  Bbbakfast — Sally  Lunn,  veal  cutlets,  potato  cakes.  Dinneb — Baked 
stuffed  heart,  potatoes  a  la  pancake,  turnips,  canned  corn,  pickled  eggs ;  cup 
custard,  cake.  Suppbb — Light  biscuit,  cold  sliced  heart,  bread  fritters  witn 
sugar. 

9.  Bbeakfast— French  rolls,  broiled  fish  if  salt,  fried  if  fresh,  fried  raw 
IMtatoes,  tomato  sauce.  Dinneb — Baked  or  boiled  fresh  fish,  mashed  ]>ota- 
toes,  canned  peas  or  beans,  lettuce,  onions;  Estelle  pudding,  jelly  tarta 
Suppeb — Cold  rolls,  bologna  sausage  sliced,  steamed  crackers,  cake  and  pre- 
served fruit. 

10.  Bbeakfast — ^Batter  cakes,  broiled  chops,  scrambled  eggs,  potato  rissoles.        i 
Dinneb — Saturday  bean  soup,  broiled  beefsteak,  spinach,  potatoes  in  Ken-        ' 
tncky  style,  pickled  beets ;  half-hour  pudding  with  sauce,  oranges  and  cake. 
Suppeb — Toasted  bread,  cold  tongue  sliced,  hot  buns  and  marmalade. 

11.  Sunday.  Break fa.st — Baked  beans  and  Boston  brown  bread,  omelette 
with  parsley.  Dinneb — Vermicelli  soup,  baked  shad  or  croquettes  of  canned 
lobster,  broiled  squabs  or  pigeon  pic,  potatoes  mashed,  turnips,  asparagiis, 
spring  cresses,  dressed  lettuce,  grape  jelly;  custard  pie,  cake.  Suppeb — Plain 
bread,  canned  salmon,  cold  buns,  jelly. 

12.  Breakfast — Corn  dodgers,  nsh'croouettes,  potato  cakes,  boiled  eggs. 
Dinneb — Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  canned  tomatoes,  pickles ;  bread  pudamg 
with  raisins.    Suppeb — Light  rolls,  cold  beef,  tea  cake. 

13.  Bbeakfast — Graham  gems,  fried  sweet  breads,  oat  meal  with  cream. 
Dinneb — Mutton  soup,  boiled  ntutton  withcai>er  sauce,  whole  potatoes,  plain 
boiled  rice,  lettuce;  orange  short  cake.  Suppeb — Toasted  gems,  cold  mutton, 
jelly  and  cake. 

14.  Breakfast — Vienna  rolls,  fried  pickled  tripe,  rice  cakes,. spring  rad- 
ishes. Dinner — ^Chicken  pot-pie,  canned  Lima  beans,  stewed  tomatoes,  as- 
paragus; Spanish  cream.    Supper — Cold  rolls,  chicken  salad,  jelly  tarts. 

15.  Bbeakfast — Batter  cakes,  veal  cutlets,  ringed  potatoes.  Dinneb — Rag- 
out of  beef,  boiled  potatoes  in  jackets,  canned  succotash,  wilted  lettuce; 
chocolate  custard,  oranges,  cake.    Suppeb — Broad,  sliced  beef,  oat  porridge. 

16.  Bbeakfast — Waffles,  broiled  mutton,  fricasseed  potatoes.  Dinnkbt— 
Lobster  soup,  baked   fish  stuffed,   baked  macaroni,  potatoes  mashed,  am- 


388  A   YEAR'S  BILL    OF  FARE. 

bushed  asparagns ;  molasses  pudding.    Supper — Graham  gems,  sardines  'with 
lemon,  toast 

17.  Breakfast — Corn  gfiddle  cakes,  fish  balls,  scrambled  eggs.  Diniher — 
Boiled  ham  with  vegetables,  chili  sauce ;  plain  boiled  pudding  with  .sauce. 
Supper — Toasted  crackers,  cold  sliced  ham,  warm  ginger  bread. 

18.  Simda2f.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast  with  poacned  eggs,  broiled  steak. 
Dinner — Macaroni  soup,  baked  chickens,  mashed  potatoes,  lettuce  salad; 
queen  of  puddings.    Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold  chicken,  ambrosia. 

19.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  chicken  croquettes,  potatoes,  radishes, 
warmed  over  mashed  potatoes,  stewed  parsnips.  Dinner — Boiled  corn  beef, 
jHjtatoes,  turnips,  carrots;  canned  peaches  and  cream,  jelly  cake.  Suppeb — 
'\)a<?ted  gems,  cold  corned  beef  shaved,  cream  fritters. 

20.  Breakfast — Roils,  stewed  kidneys,  Chili  sauce,  fricasseed  potatoes, 
fried  parsnips.  Dinner — Split  i)ea  soup,  meat  pie,  tomato  sauce,  mashed 
potatoes,  lobster  croquettes,  spring  cresses;  cottage  pudding,  tapioca  jelly, 
oranges.    Supper — Cold  rolls,  bologna  sausage,  tea  rusk  and  stewed  fruit. 

21.  Breakfast — Muffins,  breaded  veal  cutlets,  curried  eggs,  potato  cakes. 
Dinner — Roast  beef,  canned  succotash,  plain  boiled  rice  with  tomatoes, 
dressed  lettuce ;  peach  rolls  with  sauce.  Supper — Toasted  muffins,  cold  beef 
sliced,  hot  bread  and  milk. 

22.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  ham,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner— Mutton 
eoup,  mutton  garnished  with  beets  and  cresses,  stewed  parsnips,  pudding 
•f  canned  corn,  asparagus  on  toast,  onions;  orange  float,  jelly  cake.  Suppeb 
— Soda  biscuit,  cold  mutton,  currant  jelly,  floating  island. 

23.  Breakfast — Com  cakes,  pates  of  cold  mutton  hot  with  gravy,  fried 
raw  potatoes.  Dinner — Fricassee  of  canned  halibut  or  fresh  fish  baked, 
Slashed  potatoes,  turnips  sliced ;  bread  pudding,  oranges,  cake.  Suppeb — 
Plain  bread,  cold  beef,  steamed  crackers. 

24.^Breakfast — Graham  bread,  croquettes  of  fish,  potato  rissoles.  Dnf- 
msR — Ham  boiled,  potatoes,  turnips,  onion  salad ;  rhubarb  pie,  cake.  Suppeb 
—Toasted  Graham  bread,  cold  ham,  cream  cakes. 

25.  Sttnday.  Breakfast — Breakfast  rolls,  broiled  beefsteak,  omelet.  Dm- 
VKB. — Barley  soup,  baked  lamb  with  mint  sauce,  stewed  x>arsnips.  i>otatoe8, 
asparagus  with  eggs,  pates  of  sweet  breads,  lettuce  mayonnaise;  chocolate 
blanc  mange,  strawberries.    Supper — Cold  rolls,  sliced  lamb,  cake,  ielly. 

26.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  poached  eggs,  lamb  croquettes  hot  with 
gravy.    Dinner — Brown  stew,  baked  potatoes,  cresses,  Lima  beans,  stewed 

Sarsnips,    onion    salad;    rice    snow-balls  with    custard   sauce,    plain   cake, 
UPPER — Buttered  crackers  toasted,  cold  pressed  meat,  lemon  fritters  with 
sugar. 

27.  Breakfast — Hot  biscuit  with  honey,  mutton  chops  broiled,  fried  raw 
potatoes.  Dinner— Economical  soupj  tapioca  pudding.  Supper — Cold  bis- 
cuit, sliced  cold  beef,  canned  fruit  with  cream  and  cake. 

28.  Breakfast — Sall^  Lunn,  broiled  ham,  scrambled  eggs,  fried  potatoes. 
Dinner — Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  carrots,  parsnips,  lettuce  and  onion  salad; 
cream  pie.    Supper — Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  cold  beef  sliced,  tea  buns,  fruit 

29.  Breakfast — Vienna  rolls,  fried  fish,  fried   potatoes.     Dinner — Roast 
oin  of  veal  with  potatoes,  lettuce,  fried  asparagus;  orange  pudding,  cake. 

Supper — Cold  rolls,  sliced  veal,  sweet  waffles. 

30.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  fried  liver,  breakfast  potatoes.  Dinicsr^ 
Chicken  pot-pie,  spinach ;  Eslelle  pudding  with  sauce.  Supper — Plain  bread, 
•old  pressed!  meat  or  bologna ;  cream  cakes  warm. 

BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  MAY. 

1.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  served  with  fricassee  of  cold  boiled  or 
•anned  fish,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — Bacon  boiled  with  spring  greens,  pota- 
toes, beets,  parsnips;  plain  boiled  rice  with  cream  sauce,  jelly  cake.  Suppbb 
•—Steamed  crackers,  sliced  beef,  rice  fritters  with  sugar. 


A  YEAES  BILL   OF  FARE,  389 

2.  Sunday.  BREAKFAsr^-Batter  cakes,  veal  cutlets,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner 
—Cold  bacon  garnished  with  boiled  eggs  and  beet  slices,  roast  chicken, 
mashed  potatoes,  asparagus  on  toast,  dressed  lettuce  and  ^oung  onions; 
strawberries,  mixed  cake.    Supper— Cold  roils,  cold  chicken,  jam. 

3.  Breakfast— Li^hl  bread,  potato  cakes,  broiled  beefsteak.  Dinner — 
Boast  of  mutton  with  potatoes,  canned  tomatoes,  rhubarb  sauce,  baked 
costards,  fruit  cake.  Supper— Cold  biscuit,  sliced  mutton,  currant  jelly, 
sweet  buns. 

4.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  fried  pickled  tripe,  breakfast  i)otatoes.  Dinner 
—Boiled  beef  with  soup,  whole  potatoes,  asparagus  with  eggs :    cocoanut 

P'ding,  jelly.  Supper — Plain  bread,  cold  beef,  toasted  buns  with  strawberry 
or  canned  fruit. 

5.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  ham,  omelet.  Dinner — Boiled  tongue 
.  with  Chili  sauce,  fricasseed  potatoes,  cresses,   boiled  asparagus ;  ice  cream, 

sponge  cake.    Supper — Tea  biscuit,  shaved  tongue,  sago  jelly,  lady  cake. 

6.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  fried  nrutton  chops,  fried  raw  potatoes. 
Dinner — Roast  of  veal  with  potatoes,  stewed  onions,  pickled  beets;  cake, 
orange  float  Supper — ^Toasted  Graham  bread,  sliced  veal,  tea  rusk, 
Umon  jelly. 

7.  BRE.VKFAST — Mufflns,  broiled  beefsteak,  poached  eggs,  potatoes  in  Ken- 
tucky style.  Dinner — Baked  or  boiled  fish  (if  large,  or  fried  small  fish),  boiled 
potatoes  in  jackets,  lettuce  salad,  custard  pie.  Supper — Toasted  mufiins,  cold 
rosk  with  strawberries,  or  marmalade. 

8.  Breakfast — Bread  puffs  with  maple  syrup,  fricasseed  potatoes,  cro- 
quettes of  fish.  Dinner — Boiled  leg  of  mutton,  ambushed  asparagus,  boiled 
macaroni,^  a  la  pancake  potatoes,  bread  pudding.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  cold 
mutton  sliced,  plain  boiled  rice  with  cream  and  sugar. 

9.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Rice  waffles,  mutton  croquettes,  fried  raw  potatoe- 
Dinner — ^Roast  beef,  clam  pie,  new  jwtatoes,  tomatoes,  dressed  lettuce,  young 
beeta,  strawberry  cfeam  and  snow  custard,  coffee  and  macaroons.    Supper — 
Light  rolls,  cold  beef,  cake  and  jelly,  or  strawberries. 

10.  Breakf.\8T — Corn  batter  cakes,  broiled  bacon,  warmed  potatoes.  Din- 
ger— Boast  of  beef  with  potatoes,  asparagus,  cake,  oranges.  Supper — Plain 
bread,  chipped  beef,  short  cake,  marmalade. 

11.  Breakf.ast — Breakfast  wheat  with  cream,  broiled  beefsteak,  plain  bread, 
cottage  cheese.  Dinner — Asparagus  soup,  meat  pie,  new  potatoes,  pickled 
beets;  rhubarb  pie,  jelly  cake.  Supper— Tea  biscuit,  Yankee  dried  beef, 
sponge  cake  and  fruit, 

12.  Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  Katy's  codfish,  fried  raw  potatoes,  scrambled 
eggs.  Dinner — Pigeon  pie,  grape  jelly,  new  potatoes,  tomato  salad ;  delicious 
lemon  pudding,  c«ie.  Supper — Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  cold  pressed  meat,  van- 
ities with  jelly. 

13.  Brkvkfa.st — Warm  biscuit  with  maple  syrup,  veal  cutlets,  Saratoga  po- 
tatoes. Dinner — Beef  a  la  mode,  whole  potatoes,  turnips,  beets,  lettuce; 
rice  pudding  with  cream  sauce,  oranges.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  sliced  beef,  tea 
cakes,  blanc  mange. 

14.  Breakfast— Corn  muffins,  broiled  fish,  tomato  sauce,  fried  new  pota- 
toes. Dinner — Fresh  fish  or  canned  halibut,  cod  or  salmon,  mashed  potatoes, 
turnips,  spinach  with  eggs ;  cream  pie,  silver  cake.  Supper — Toasted  muffins, 
omelet  with  asparagus,  bread  and  milk. 

15.  Breakfast — Light  biscuit,  broiled  steak,  potatoes.  Dinner — Brown 
fltew,  whole  potatoes,  beets;  Indian  meal  pudding,  with  sauce,  lady  fingers. 
Supper — Cold  biscuit,  chipi)ed  beef,  cream  cakes  and  jelly. 

16.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Breakfast  toast,  fried  veal  cutlets,  sliced  tomatoes. 
Dinner — Roa.st  of  lamb  with  mint  sauce,  currant  jellv,  new  potatoes,  green 
peas ;  strawberry  short  cake.    Supper — Light  rolls,  col^  lamb,  jelly  and  caka. 

17.  Breakfast— Plain  bread,  minced  lamb  with  poached  eggs  on  toast. 
Dinner — ^Meat  pie,  new  potatoes,  asparagus,  lettuce ;  cherry  pie,  lady  fingers. 
Supper — Pop-overs,  sardines,  baked  rhubarb. 


390  A   YEARS  BILL    OF  FAEK 

18.  Breakfast— Plain  bread,  broiled  bacon,  fried  potatoes.  DncincB— 
Chicken  soup,  sniotliered  chickens,  potatoes  in  Kentucky  style,  toiiiatoe% 
half-hour  pudding,  oranges.    Suppkr — Waffles,  cold  pressed  meat,  jelly  cake. 

19.  BREAKFA.ST — Muffiiis,  cod-fish,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — Veal  stew,  potOf 
toes  mashed  or  baked,  spinach,  rhubarb  sauce;  plain  batter  pudding  witli 
sauce,  cake  and  fruit.     8ri*PKu — Toasted  muthns,  cold  veal,  cream  cakes. 

20.  Breakfast — Frencli  rolls,  warmed  over  veal  stew,  tomato  sauce.  I>iw- 
KER — Boiled  ham  with  potatoes,  asparagus,  peas,  tomato  salad  ;  .rhubarb  pie. 
Supper — C'old  rolls,  sliced  ham,  pan  cakes  with  jelly. 

21.  Breakfast — Corn  meal  gems,  ham  balls,  breakfast  potatoes.  Dini^kb— 
Baked  or  boiled  tish,  whole  boiled  potatoes,  asparagus  on  toast,  lettuce  and 
cress  salad ;  green  currant  pie,  jelly  cake.  Supper — Toasted  gems,  canned 
salmon,  oatmeal  pudding  witli  cream  and  sugar. 

22.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  larded  sweet-breads,  fried  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Broiled  beefsteak,  baked  potatoes,  turnips,  lettuce;  potato  pie,  li^4 
cake.    Supper—  Light  biscuit,  beefsteak  toast. 

23.  Sunday.  Bukakfast — Corn  dbdgers,  stewed  kidneys,  omelet.  Ditjkbb— 
Baked  chicken,  new  potatoes,  diced  turnips^  baked  rhubarb,  green  peas,  let* 
tucc ;  Charlotte  russe,  pine  apple  ambrosia,  cake.  Supper — Cold  biscuit 
sliced  chicken,  preserved  fruit  and  cake. 

24.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  chicken  croquettes,  fried  potatoes.  Duorxi 
— Boast  beef,  boiled  onions,  lettuce,  mashed  potatoes ;  jelly  with  whipped 
cream.     Supper — Toasts  gems,  cold  beef,  rusk  and  jelly. 

2o.  Breakfast — Warm  biscuit,  broiled  bacon,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — Boile4 
mutton  with  soup,  whole  potatoes,  onions,  green  peas,  lettuce,  sweet  pickles; 
cherry  pie,  cream  puffs.  Supper— Cold  rolls,  cold  sliced  mutton,  toasted  rusk 
with  fruit. 

26.  Breakfast— Corn  muffins,  broiled  steak,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner— 
3oiled  bacon  with  greens  and  potatoes,  radishes,  lettuce  salad ;  bread  pud- 
ding, oranged  strawberries.     Supper— Toasted  muffins,  cold  tongue,  jelly  tarts. 

27.  Breakfast— Buttered  toast,  broiled  ham,  omelet  with  parsley.  Dinnsii 
— Chicken  pie,  fricasseed  potatoes,  asparagus,  peas,  lettuce;  poor  man's  pad< 
ding.    Supper — Hot  bipcuils,  cottage  cheese,  stewed  fruit  and  cake. 

28.  Breakfast— Waffles,  broiled  mutton  chops,  potatoes.  Dinner — Fresh 
fish  boiled,  baked  or  fried  new  potatoes,  tomatoes,  beets,  lettuce;  cottagd 
pudding  with  sauce,  cake.    Supper— Oat-meal  and  cream,  stewed  cherries. 

29.  Breakfast— Bread  pufts  with  maple  syrup,  canned  salmon  on  toast, 
tomato  sauce.  Dinner— Ham  boiled  with  greens,  young  turnips :  rhubarb 
pie,  tapioca  jelly.    Supper — Plain  bread,  shaved  ham,  hot  buns  ana  fruit 

30.  Sunday.  Breakfast— Hot  rolls,  broiled  beefsteak,  tomato  omelet  DiK- 
NER — Roast  lamb  with  mint  sauce,  clam  stew,  new  potatoes,  young  turnips^ 
green  peas,  lettuce  salad ;  iee  cream  and  strawberries,  centennial  drops,  cake. 
Supper— Cold  rolls,  shaved  ham,  toasted  buns  and  jelly. 

31.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  croquettes  of  cold  meat,  fried  potatoes,  Dw« 
xer — Meat  pie,  whole  iwtatoes,  asparagus,  lettuce;  steamed  Indian  meal  pud* 
ding  with  sauce,  soft  gmger-bread.  Supper— Hot  biscuit,  coal  veal,  cake  &n<| 
f-uit. 

BILL  OF  FARE   FOR  JUNE. 

1.  Breakfast- Buttered  toast  poached  eggs,  mutton  cho|»s.  Dinnar-^ 
Roast  beef,  whole  potatoes,  ambushed  asparagus,  tomato  salad ;  st^wberries 
and  cream,  cake.  Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold  beef  sliced,  baked  pie-plant 
cake. 

2.  Breakfast — French  rolls,  crotjjuettes  of  beef,  radishes.  Dinner — Beef 
boiled  with  soup,  (beef  .served  with  drawn  butter,)  new  potatoes,  .«*pin- 
ech  with  egg  dressing,  boiled  onions,  green  currant  pie,  spon^  cake.  Sup- 
per-Plain  bread,  sliced  cold  beef,  sweet  pickles. 

3.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  broiled  ham,  tomato  omelet    ly^NEB — Steame.^ 


A    YEARS  BILL   OF  FARE,  391 

chicken,  green  peas,  mashed  potatoes,  dressed  lettuce;  strawberries  served 
with  sugar  and  cream.  Supper — Warm  biscuit^  chipped  dried  beef,  young^ 
onions,  lemon  jelly. 

4.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  fried  fish,  potatoes  «  la  ducheste.  Dinner — 
Baked  or  boiled  fresh  fish  or  lobster  fricassee,  new  iK)tatocs.  asparagus  on 
toa8t ;  baked  custard,  cake.  Scpper — Toasted  Graham  bread,  frizzled  ham, 
raspberry  shortcake  with  cream. 

6.  Breakfast — Waffles,  broiled  mutton  or  lamb  cho^w,  potatoes,  stewed 
toniatoes.  Dinner — Broiled  beefsteak,  whole  boiled  potatoes,  beets,  greens, 
onion  salad-;  berries  and  cake.  Supper — Hot  biscuit,  cold  pressed  meat, 
tapioca  cream. 

6.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Twist  rolls,  fried  chickens,  potatoes,  omelet.  Din- 
ner— Clam  soup,  baked  lamb  with  |)otatoe8,  green  peas,  sliced  tomatoes,  aspara- 
gus, lettuce  a  la  mayonruiise ;  strawjierry  short-cake  with  whipi)ed  cream. 
Supper — Cold  biscuit,  sliced  lamb,  fruit  and  light  cakes. 

7.  Breakfast — Oranges,  corn  batter  cakes,  broiled  liver,  scrambled  eggs. 
Dinner — Roast  beef,  mushed  potatoes,  beets,  cress  salad ;  plain  boiled  rice- 
with  cream.    Supper — Plain  bread,  bologna  sausage,  rusk  with  berries. 

8.  Breakfast — Rice  cakes,  lamb  chops,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — Boiled  beef ' 9 
tongue  (fresh)  served  with  Chili  sauce,  Texas  baked  potatoes,  young  beets, 
lettuce  dressed;  raspberry  cream,  cake.  Supper — Sliced  beef's  tongue, 
toasted  rusk,  berries. 

9.  Breakfast — Muffins,  beef  steak,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — Soud  of  stock 
boiled  yesterday  with  tongue,  chicken  pie,  mashed  potatoes  ana  turnips, 
spinach,  lettuce;  cream  fritters  with  sauce.  Supper — Toasted  muffins, 
ICaty's  codfish  fruit' 

10.  Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  veal  cutlets,  radishes.  Dinner — Ragout  of 
lamb,  mashed  potatoes,  asparagus,  lettuce;  lemon  pudding,  cake.  Supper— .■ 
Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  cold  sliced  lamb,  sliced  tomatoes. 

11.  Breakfast — Vienna  rolls,  breakfast  stew,  ])otatoes  or  tomatoes.     Din- 
ner— Fresh  fish  fried  or  baked,  mashed  potatoes,  asparagus,  beet  salad ;  rice  * 
pudding  with  sauce   and  cake,  oranges.    Supper — Cold    rolls,    dried    beef 
chipped,  custard  cake  with  fruit  or  berries. 

12.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  croquettes  of  fish  or  breaded  veal  cutlets, 
e9caloi)ed  eggs.  Dinner — Ham  boiled  with  greens,  potatoes,  beets,  young 
onions;  economical  pudding,  Italian  rolls.  Supper — Toasted  gems,  cola 
ham,  oat-meal  with  cream,  cake  and  jelly. 

13.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Li^ht  n)lls,  broiled  beefsteak,  sliced  tomatoes, 
omelets.  Dinner — Baked  chicken,  mashed  potatoes,  green  peas,  pickled 
beets;  Bohemian  cream  with  strawberries.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  cold  ciiicken, 
toast  with  jelly,  fruit. 

14.  Breakfast — Waffles,  croquettes  of  cold  chicken,  tomatoes.  Dinner — 
Veal  stuffed  and  baked,  asparagus,  tomatoes,  crosses;  strawberries  and 
cream.    Supper — Biscuit,  sliced  veal,  fruit,  light  cakes. 

15.  Breaxfast — Flannel  cakes,  jmtes  of  cold  veal,  potatoes  fried.  Din- 
ner— Boiled  conied  beef,  potatoes,  turnips,  wilted  lettuce;  cocoanut  pudding;, 
cake.  Supper — Plain  bread,  cold  corned  beef,  corn  meal  mush  or  hasty  pu<l- 
ding  with  cream. 

16.  Breakf.\st — Fried  mush,  fried  i)otatoe8,  broiled  bacon.  Dfnner — As- 
paragus, soup,  roast  chicken,  whole  jwtatoes,  spinach  with  eggs,  V)eets  and 
lettuce;  cherry  pie.  Suppee — Cold  rolls,  bologna  sausage,  raspberries,  light 
c^es. 

17.  Breakfast — Corn  muffins,  pickled  tripe,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Roast  mutton,  potatoes,  green  |K»as,  lettuce  ;  orange  souffle,  cake.  Supper — 
Toasted  muffins,  sliced  mutton,  sweet  buns,  fruit. 

18.  Breakfast — Breakfast  wheat  with  cream,  plain  bread,  broiled  fish. 
Dinner — Baked  fish  (fresh),  baked  i)otatoes,  tonmtoes,  cucumbers;  boiled 
costard  and  cake.    Supper — Cold  pressed  meat,  short-cake  with  fruit. 

19.  Battered  toast,  poached  eggs,  broiled  mutton  chop.    Dinner — Boiled 


392  A  YEARS  BILL  OF  FARR 

flhoulder  of  bacon  with  green.%  potatoes,  beets,  tomatoes,  salad  ;  bread  pud- 
ding.   SuppKR— Light  biscuits,  Yankee  dried  beef. 

20.  Suwlay.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  beefsteak,  boiled  eggs,  stewed 
tomatoes.  Dinner — Lamb  cutlets  broiled  and  served  with  green  peas,  sum- 
mer squash,  young  unions,  pickled  beets;  orauged  strawberries;  cakes. 
Supper — Cold  biscuits,  canned  salmon  ,  fruit. 

21.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  fried  clams,  i)Otatoes  or  hominy  croquettes. 
Dinner — Roast  of  beef  with  potatoes,  string  beans,  young  onions;  raspberry 
blanc  mange,  oranges  or  bananas  and  cake.  Supper — ^Hot  tea  buns,  cold 
beef  sliced,  cherries,  lemon  cakes.  , 

22.  Breakfast — Waffles,  breakfast  stew,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Meat  pie, 
green  peas,  potatoes,  lettuce;  raspberry  float.  Supper— -Cold  buns,  chipped 
dried  beef,  raspberry  cream,  cakes. 

23.  Breakfast — French  rolls,  broiled  liver,  tomatoes.  Dinner — Stewed 
lamb  with  mint  sauce,  potatoes,  sauash,  beets ;  strawberry  shortKMike  with 
whipped  cream.  Supper — Cold  sliced  lamb,  sweet  muffins  with  stewed 
cherries. 

24.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  beefsteak  smothered  with  onions,  toiuii- 
toes.  Dinner — Boiled  beef  with  ^up,  potatoes,  string  beans ;  cherry  dump- 
lings with  sauce,  cake.    Supper — Toasted  Graham  bread,  cold  beef,  currants. 

26.  Breakfast — Corn  pone,  broiled  ham,  omelet,  hominy  fritters.  Din- 
ner— Boiled  salmon  or  some  other  variety  of  fresh  fish  either  fried,  baked 
or  fricasseed;  mashed  potatoes,  Lima  beans,  squash,  cucumbers ;  oranges. 
Supper — Cold  pone  sliced  and  toasted  in  the  oven,  cold  tongue,  sponge 
cake  with  fruit.    • 

26.  Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  larded  veal  cutlets,  scalloped  eggs.  Dinner — 
Boiled  ham  with  greens,  potatoes,  beet  greens ;  raspberries  and  cream,  cake. 
Supper — Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  sliced  ham,  floating  island. 

27.  Sunday.  Breakfast — French  pancakes,  veal  and  ham  croquettes, 
poached  eggs  qii   toast.    Dinner — Fried  chicken,  cold  ham,  mashed  pota- 

*  toes,  Lima  beans,  cucumbers;  snow  custard,  cherries,  cake.    Supper — Cold 
rolls,  sliced  chicken,  stewed  cherries  and  cake. 

28.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  ham  balls,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — Baked 
mutton,  potatoes,  beets,  squash,  lettuce ;  quick  puff  pudding.  Supper — But- 
tered toast,  cold  mutton,  fritters  with  sugar. 

29.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  broiled  bacon,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — Boiled 
corned  beef,  turnips,  potatoes,  young  beets ;  bananas  or  oranges.  Supper — 
Steamed  oatmeal,  crackers,  cold' corn  beef,  stewed  cherries,  cake. 

30.  Breakfast — Muffins,  broiled  steak,  tomatoes.  Dinner — Fried  chickea 
w^ith  cream  gravy,  potatoes,  squash,  lettuce ;  gooseberry  tarts,  com  starcii 
blanc  mange.    Supper — Light  biscuit,  bread  and  milk. 

BILL  OF  FARE   FOR  JULY. 

1.  Breakfast — Warm  biscuit,  hominy  croquettes,  broiled  ham,  sliced  to. 


^11 


atoes.  Dinner — Beef's  tongue  with  green  peas,  potatoes  a  la  Parisienf 
i iced  cucumbers;  raspberry  float,  cake.  Supper — Sliced  tongue,  hot  buns, 
raspl>errie8  and  cream. 

2.  Breakfast — Corn  bread,  fried  chicken,  tomato  omelet.  Dinner — Boiled 
fish  with  egg  sauce,  mashed  potatoes;  squash ;  cherry  dumplings  \yith  sauce, 
lady  fingers.  Supper — Cold  bacon  broiled  and  served  on  toast,  sliced  torna* 
toes,  raspberry  short-cake. 

.3.  Breakfast — Breflkfast  puffs,  stowed  kidneys,  radishes,  young  onions. 
Dinner — Boiled  ham  with  young  cabbages,  potatoes,  cucumbers ;  bread  cus- 
tard pudding,  cake.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  sliced  l)am,  fried  tomatoes,  rusk 
with  stewed  currants. 

4.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Fresh  berries  with  cream  and  sugar,  broiled  Span- 
ish mackerel,  buttered  toast,  escalloped  omelette  souffle,  flannel  cakes  with 


A   YEAR'S  BILL  OF  FARK  393 

«ynip.  DiwwER — Pea  soap,  ro&st  tenderloin  of  beef,  new  potatoes,  tomatoes, 
lettuce  ala  Mayonnaite^  cucumber  sliced;  pineapple  pudding,  ice-cream,  cake. 
Buffer — Small  light  biscuit,  sliced  ham,  orange  tarts,  cake  and  berries. 

5.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  broiled  mutton  chops,  fried  potatoes,  cot- 
tage cheese.  Dinner — Ragout  of  beef,  boiled  potatoes,  young  onions,  toma- 
toes; rice  pudding,  oranges,  cake.  Supper— Toasted  gems,  ham  salad,  stewed 
berries,  sweet  buns. 

6.  Breakfast — Hot  muffins,  broiled  l>eef steak,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner — Meat 
pie,  boiled  potatoes,  boiled  cauliflower  with  sauce ;  cherry  souffle,  cake.  Suf- 
FEF — Toasted  muffins,  bologna  sausage  sliced,  raspberries. 

7.  Breakfast — Batter  cake,  breakfast  bacon,  crushed  wheat  with  cream. 
Dinner — Stuffed  fillet  of  veal  garnished  with  green  peas,  mashed  potatoes, 
summer  sauash,  beet  salad ;  black  Ijerries,  cream  and  cake.  Supper — Cold 
rolls,  sliced  veal,  short-cake  with  berries  or  jam. 

8.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  boiled  eggs,  broiled  ham.  Dinner — Rice, 
soup,  boiled  corn  beef,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  cucumber  salad ;  ripe  currant 
pie,  cake.  Suffer — Plain  bread,  cold  corn  beef,  steamed  crackers,  stewed 
fruit. 

9.  Breakfast — Hash,  fried  potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes  with  toast.  Din- 
ner— Fresh  fish  either  baked,  boiled  or  fried,  green  beans  stewed  with 
pork,  boiled  potatoes,  cucumber  salad ;  cherry  pie,  cake.  Suffer — Warm 
biscuit,  ham  omelet,  light  cakes  and  jelly  or  berries. 

10.  Breakfast — Waffles,  broiled  beefsteak,  scrambled  eggs.  Dinner — 
Roast  beef,  Texas  baked  potatoes,  beets,  cucumbers,  dressed  lettuce ;  cup 
custards,  oranges,  cake.  Supper — Plain  bread,  oat-meal  with  cream,  sliced 
banana  or  pineapple. 

•  11.  Sunday.  BREitKFAST — Graham  bread,  broiled  mutton  chops,  potato 
cakes.  Dinner — Baked  chicken,  mashed  potatoes,  encumbers,  dressed  let- 
tuce, vanilla  ice  cream,  blackberries,  cake.  Supper — Toast  of  Graham  bread, 
sliced  chicken  cold,  cream  cakes  and  jelly. 

12.  Breakfast — Batter  cakes,  broiled  ham,  tomato  omelet,  radishes.  Din- 
ner— Baked  lamb,  green  peas,  baked  i)otatoes,  sq^uash ;  rice  custard,  berries 
with  cream.    Supper — Biscuit,  cold  lamb  sliced,  npe  currants  with  cream. 

13.  Breakfast — Rice  muffins,  hash,  tomatoes.  Dinner— -Economical  soup ; 
blackberry  pudding  with  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Buttered  toast,  cold  sliced 
meat,  blackberries  with  cream. 

14.  Breakfast — French  rolls,  vegetable  hash,  broiled  beefsteak,  cottage 
cheese.  Dinner — Mock  (or  real)  turtle  soup,  baked  heart,  baked  potatoes, 
stewed  beans;  chocolate  pudding,  cocoanut  cake.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  slicea 
heart,  cottage  puffs,  stewed  berries. 

15.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  fried  liver,  fricasseed  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Clam  pie,  mashed  potatoes,  string  beans,  lettuce;  blackberry  pie,  cake. 
Supper — Plain  bread.  drlLMi  beef  frizzled,  rice  batter  cakes  with  sugar. 

16.  Breakfast — Muttins,  broiled  mutton  choi)8,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Fish  fresh  or  canned,  whole  potatoes,  peas,  squash,  lettuce ;  Hamburg  cream. 
Supper — Toasted  muffins,  cold  pressed  meat,  corn  meal  mush  with  cream. 

17.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  veal  sweetbreads,  mush  fried,  boiled  eggs. 
Dinner — Boiled  ham  with  potatoes,  cabbage,  string  beans ;  warm  ginger- 
bread, lemonade.  Supper — Dry.  toast,  cold  ham  shaved,  rusk,  blackberries 
and  cream. 

18.  Sufiday.  Breakfast — Vienna  rolls,  fried  chicken  with  cream  gravy, 
fried  tomatoes,  cottage  cheese.  Dinner — Roast  of  beef  with  potatoes,  stewed 
tomatoes,  cucumbers,  wilted  lettuce ;  Charlotte  russe,  cake.  Supper — Cold 
rolls,  sliced  beef,  blackberries. 

19.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast  with  poached  eggs,  cold  roast  beef  sliced 
and  warmed  up  with  gravjr,  potatoes  fried.  Dinner — Veal  stufTed  and  baked 
with  potatoes,  peas;  tapioca  pudding.  Suffer — Light  biscuit,  cold  veal, 
cracked  wheat  and  cream. 

20.  Breakfast — Slap-jacks,  veal  cutlets,  breakfast  hominy.    Dinner — Mat- 


394  A   YEARS  BILL  OF  FARE. 

ton  soup,  boiled  mutton  dressed  with  drawn  butter,  whole  potatoes,  toma- 
toes, beet  salad ;  whortleberry  pudding  with  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Soda  bis- 
cuit, cold  mutton,  jellv  and  cake. 

21.  Brkakpast — Granam  gems,  croquettes  of  mutton,  new  potatoes  fried 
whole.  DixNKR — Boiled  tongue,  mashed  potatoes,  tomatoes  stewed ;  black- 
berries  and  cream.    Supper — Pop-overs,  cold  tongue,  oatmeal  and  cream. 

22.  Breakfast — Vienna  rolls,  beefsteak,  potato  cake.  Dinner— Chicken 
croquettes,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  onion  sauce;  tapioca  jelly,  oranges.  Sup- 
per— Cold  rolls,  sliced  chicken,  stewed  berries,  short  cake. 

23.  Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  broiled  fish,  fried  raw  potatoes.  Diknkb — 
Fresh  lish  chowder  or  canned  fish  in  fricassee,  potatoes  whole,  peas,  baked 
egg  plant,  boiled  rice ;  gooseberry  fool,  cake.  Supper — Toasted  Sally  Lunn, 
cold  pressed  meats,  rice  custards,  sponge  cake. 

24.  Breakfast — Rice  waffles,  veal  cutlets  breaded,  scrambled  eggs.  D»"- 
NER — Ham  or  shoulder  boiled  with  cabbage  and  other  vegetables,  greens; 
baked  custard,  cake.  Supper — Biscuits,  cold  ham,  bread  and  milk  iced^ 
blackberries  with  cream. 

25.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Breakfast  rolls,  frizzled  ham  and  eggs,  tomato 
omelet,  cottage  cheese.  Dinner — ^Okra  soup,  boiled  chickens,  sweet  pickles, 
escalopned  cauliflower,  stewed  corn,  lettuce ;  ambrosia  of  oranges  ana  cocoa- 
nut,  almond  cake.  Supper— Cold  rolls,  sliced  chicken,  huckleberries  and 
cream. 

26.  Breakfast — Rolls,  fried  pickled  tripe,  tomato  omelet.  Dinner — Es- 
caloped  chicken,  whole  potatoes,  string  beans,  summer  squash,  onions,  rad- 
ishes ;  berries  with  cream,  cake.  Supper — Plain  bread,  cold  pressed  meat, 
crackers  with  fruit. 

27.  Breakfast — Muffins,  broiled  mutton  or  lamb  chops,  fried  potatoes,  to- 
matoes. Dinner — Roast  beef,  cauliflower  boiled  with  sauce,  Lima  beans, 
raw  tomatoes;  huckleberry  roll  with  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Toasted  muffins, 
sliced  beef,  cake  and  lemonade. 

28.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  beefsteak,  puff  omelet,  stewed  toma- 
toes. Dinner — Boiled  corned  beef  with  turnips,  potatoes,  beans,  cabbage; 
sliced  bread  pudding,  cake.  Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold  corn  beef,  egg 
rolls. 

29.  Breakfast — Waffles,  fried  chickens,  fricasseed  potatoes.  Dinner — 
Roast  chicken,  potatoes,  squash,  baked  tomatoes;  gooseberry  tarts,  cake. 
Supper — Plain  bread,  cold  chicken,  jelly  and  cake. 

30.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  broiled  ham  with  poached  eggs.  Dinner — 
Fish,  fresh  or  canned,  potatoes  mashed,  onions  stewed  with  cream,  Lima 
beans,  lettuce;  huckleberry  pie,  cream  puffs.  Supper — Graham  toast,  sar- 
dines, "vanities"  with  jelly. 

31.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  potato  cakes,  omelets  with  tomatoes.  Din- 
ner— Boiled  ham  or  shoulder  with  cabbage,  potatoes  and  other  vegeta- 
bles, cucumber  salad ;  custard  pie.  Supper— Light  biscuit,  shaved  ham,  blanc 
mange  with  jelly  and  cake. 

BILL   OF  FARE  FOR  AUGUST. 

1.  Sunday,  Breakfast— Nutmeg  melon,  broiled  mackerel,  potatoes  whole* 
buttered  toast,  flannel  cakes  with  svrup.  Dinner— Chicken  soup,  roast  ten- 
derloin of  beef,  new  i)otatoe8,  boiled  corn  in  the  ear;  blackberry  pie,  ice 
cream,  cake,  watermelon.  Supper— Light  biscuit,  sliced  cold  beef,  chicken 
sandwiches,  cake  and  berries. 

2.  Breakfast— Graham  gems,  broiled  mutton  chops,  fried  potatoes,  sliced 
cucumbers.  Dinner— Roa-st  beef,  boiled  potatoes,  macaroni  with  cheese, 
young  beets,  t(miatoes;  rice  pudding,  cake.  Supper— Toasted  gems,  dried 
beef  frizzled,  stewed  berries,  sweet  buns. 

3.  Breakfast— Hot  muffins,  broiled  beefsteak,  boiled  eggs.  Dinner— 
lieat  pie,  boiled  potatoes,  green  corn  pudding,  dressed  lettuce;  watermelon. 


A   YEAES  BILL   OF  FARE.  396 

SuPFBit — Toasted  muffins,  chipped  dried  beef,  cold  buns  and  jelly  or  black- 
berries. 

4.  Bbeakfast — Light  rolls,  mutton  chops  breaded,  crushed  oatmeal  with 
cream.  Dinner — Stuffed  fillet  of  veal,  mashed  potatoes,  summer  squash, 
boiled  beets  sliced ;  lemon  meringue  pie,  cake.  SupPEB---OoId  rolls,  sliced 
veal,  warm  biscuit  and  honey. 

5.  Breakf.\st — Fried  chicken,  whole  boiled  potatoes,  onions  and  radishes. 
DiNJfEB — Vegetable  soup,  boiled  corn  beef,  potatoes,  corn,  wilted  lettuce; 
chess  pie,  cake.    Supper — Plain  bread,  cold  corn  beef,  stewed  fruit. 

6.  Breakfast — Breakfast  stew,  fried  potatoes,  fried  cabbage.  Dinner — 
Gumbo  soup,  fresh  fish  baked  or  boiled,  succotash,  boiled  potatoes;  berries. 
8cpPER — Warm  biscuit,  Katy's  codfish,  light  cakes  and  lemon  jelly. 

7.  Breakfast— Waffles,  broiled  beefsteak,  scrambled  eggs.  Dinner — Boiled 
ham  with  potatoes,  turnips  and  cabbage ;  apple  sauce,  jelly  cake.  Supper — 
Plain  bread,  sliced  ham,  cracked  wheat. 

8.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Nutmeg  melon,  broiled  veal  cutlets,  vegetable 
hash,  corn  mtters.  Dinner — Chicken  pudding,  cold  sliced  ham,  baked  mashed 
potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  cucumbers;  watermelon.  Supper — Light  biscuit, 
cold  sliced  ham,  cream  cakes  and  jelly. 

9.  Breakfast — Batter  cakes,  Katy's  codfish,  tomato  omelet.  Dinner — 
Baked  lamb,  creamed  cabbage,  stewed  tomatoes ;  cream  pudding.  Supper — 
Biscuit,  cold  lamb  sliced,  preserve  puffs. 

10.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  hasn,  stewed  tomatoes.  Dinner — Beef  a  la 
modCy  boiled  potatoes,  green  corn  pudding,  sliced  tomatoes ;  tapioca  cream. 
Supper — Buttered  toast,  cold  pressed  meat,  chocolate  custard. 

11.  Breakfast — French  rolls,  broiled  beefsteak,  cottage  cheese.  Dinner — 
Corn  soup  with  chicken,  celery,  mashed  potatoes,  stewed  beans,  sliced  cu- 
cumbers and  onions ;  watermelon.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  chicken  salad,  apple 
aauce,  bonny  clabber. 

12.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  fried  liver,  potato  cakes,  stewed  tomatoes. 
Dinner — Roast  leg  of  mutton  with  potatoes,  green  com,  tomatoes;  musk 
melon.    Supper — Plain  bread,  dried  beef  frizzled,  boiled  rice  with  cream. 

13.  Breakfast — Rice  cakes,  mutton  stew,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Meat 
pie,  young  corn,  boiled  cauliflower;  grapes,  plain  cake.  Supper — ^Toast,  cold 
pressed  meat,  Graham  mush  with  cream. 

14.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  broiled  bacon,  Graham  mush  fried,  boiled 
eggs.  Dinner — Boiled  ham  with  potatoes,  cabbage,  string  beans;  lemon  pie, 
•cake.    Supper — Light  biscuit,  cola  ham  shaved,  apple  sauce. 

15.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Nutmeg  melons,  fried  chicken  with  cream  gravy, 
fried  tomatoes,  cottage  cheese,  corn  fritters.  Dinner — Roast  loin  of  veal, 
mashed  potatoes,  creamed  cabbage,  tomatoes ;  watermelon.  Supper — Cold 
rolls,  sliced  veal. 

16.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast  with  poached  eggs,  cold  roast  veal  sliced 
and  warmed  up  with  gravy,  potatoes  fried.  Dinner — Roast  beef  with  pota- 
toes, peas,  tomatoes,  corn  puading,  lettuce  ;  watermelon.  Supper — Light  bis- 
cuit, cold  sliced  beef,  apple  snow. 

17.  Breakfast — Nutmeg  melon,  com  oysters,  broiled  bacon.  Dinner — 
Broiled  prairie  chicken  with  currant  jelly,  Texas  baked  potatoes,  sliced 
tomatoes;  cake,  orange  float.  Supper — 8po<^)n  biscuit,  cold  beef,  jelly  and 
cake. 

18.  Breakfast — Corn  gems,  croquettes  of  "mutton,  fried  apples,  fried  potar 
toes.  Dinner — Boiled  tongue,  whole  boiled  potatoes,  tomatoes  stewed;  Tried 
bananas.    Supper — Toasted  bread,  cold  tongue,  oatmeal  with  cream. 

19.  Breakfast — Breakfast  rolU,  fried  sweet  breads,  fried  potatoes.  Diw- 
NBR — Brown  stew,  baked  potatoes,  stewed  corn,  escaloped  tomatoes ;  water- 
melon.   Supper — Sliced  cold  beef,  biscuit,  floating  island. 

20.  Breakfast — Nutmeg  melon,  Sally  Lunn,  broiled  beefsteak,  potatoes. 
Dinner — Fresh  fish  chowder,  potatoes  whole,  peas,  boiled  onions,  tomato 


396  A    YEAICS  BILL  OF  FAME. 

salad ;  snoiv flakes,  cake.    Supper— Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  cold  pressed  meat, 
sponge  cake  and  jelly  with  whipped  creani. 

21.  BuEAKFAST — Bread  puffs,  veal  cutlets  breaded,  scrambled  eggs.  Din- 
ner— Ham  or  shoulder  boiled  with  cabbage  and  other  vegetables,  beets- 
sliced  ;  baked  custard.  Supper — Warm  biscuits,  cold  ham,  bread  and  milk 
iced. 

22.  Sunday.  Bre.\kfa8T — ^Nutmeg  melons,  breakfast  rolls,  cold  boiled  ham, 
shaved  tomato  omelet,  corn  oysters.  Dinner — Okra  soup,  fried  gumbo, 
boiled  chicken,  sweet  pickles,  plain  boiled  rice ;  ice-cream  cake.  Supper — 
Cold  rolls,  sliced  chicken,  rice  with  sugar  and  cream. 

23.  Breakfast — Rice  cakes,  broiled  breakfast  bacon,  fried  cabbage.  Din- 
ner— Chicken  escaloped,  whole  potatoes,  string  beans,  boiled  com  in  the  ear; 
watermelon,  plain  cake.  Supper — Hot  biscuit,  cold  pressed  meat,  fried 
apples. 

24.  Breakfast — Mufflns,  broiled  mutton  or  lamb  chops,  rice  croquettes 
with  gravy.    Dinner — Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  cauliflower  with  sauce,  Lima 
beans,  raw  tomatoes ;  baked  apples  witn  cream.    Supper — Toasted  muffins, 
sliced  beef,  jelly,  cream. 

25.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  steak,  fricasseed  ]>otatoes.  Dinner — 
Broiled  corned  beef  with  turnips,  potatoes,  stewed  beans;  bread  pudding  with 
custard,  cake.  Supper— Light  biscuit,  cold  corn  beef,  apple  fritters  with 
sugar. 

2d.  Breakfast — Waffles,  fried  chickens  with  com  dodgers,  stewed  toma- 
toes. Dinner — Broiled  prairie  chicken  with  currant  jelly,  mashed  potatoes, 
creamed  cabbage ;  mock  strawberries,  cake.  Supper — Plain  bread,  Yankee 
dried  beef,  jelly  and  cake. 

27.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  fried  fish,  potato  rissoles.  Dinner— Fish, 
fresh  or  canned,  potatoes  boiled  in  jackets,  stewed  tomatoes,  Lima  beans ; 
watermelon.  Supper — Graham  toast,  bologna  sausage,  "vanities*'  with 
jelly. 

28.  Breakfast — Bread  puflFs,  fried  potatoes,  poached  eggs.  Dinner— 
Boiled  ham  or  shoulder  with  vegetables,  cucumber  salad ;  warm  gingerbread 
and  lemonade.  Supper — Light  biscuit,  shaved  ham,  blanc  mange  with  jelly 
and  cake. 

29.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Nutmeg  melon,  French  pancakes,  broiled  hain, 
sliced  tomatoes.  Dinner — Roast  prairie  chicken,  mashed  potatoes,  boiled 
onions ;  peaches  and  ice-cream.  Supper — Plain  bread,  sliced  chicken,  water- 
melon. 

30.  Breakfast — Corn  bread,  broiled  mackerel,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — 
Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  corn  boiled  in  ear ;  watermelons,  cake.  Supper — 
Toast,  cold  beef,  apple  fritters. 

31.  Breakfast — Breakfast  stew,  fricasseed,  potatoes,  breakfast  rolls.  Dm- 
ner — Boiled  ham  with  cabbage,  potatoes,  beets,  cucumbers;  custard  pie> 
cake.    Supper— Cold  rolls,  sliced  ham,  rusk,  apple  sauce. 

BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  SEPTEMBER. 

1.  Breakfasf— Milk  toast,  broiled  steak,  fried  potatoes.    Dinner— Chicken 

Sie,  boiled  potatoes,  young  carrots,  green  corn ;  peach  short  cake.    Supper— 
iscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  grapes. 

2.  Breakfast — Biscuit,  broiled  bacon,  tomatoes.  Dinner — Beefatamwic, 
I>otatoes  boiled,  onions  baked,  egg  plant,  cabbage  salad ;  apple  pie,  mixed 
cakes.    Supper — Pop-overs,  hone5%  peaches  and  cream. 

3.  Breakfast — Gniham  gems,    mutton  chops,   potatoes.     Dinner — Baked 
fish,  potatoes,  green  com,  stewed  tomatoes,  pickled  beets;  peach  dumplings 
with  sauce,  cake.    Supper — Oyster  stew,  crackers,  celerj',  fruit. 

4.  Breakfast — Nutmeg  mefons,  com  oysters,  steak.  Dinner — Beef  boiled 
with  cabbftf^e  and  potatoes,  succotash ;  apple  roly-poly  with  custard  saace^ 
fljponge  cake.    Supper — Sliced  beef,  peaches  and  cream. 


A   YEARS  BILL  OF  FARE.  397 

5.  Sunday.  Breakfast— Nulnieg  melon,  vegetable  hash,  broiled  veal  cut- 
lets, tomatoes  fried.  Dinner — Baked  chickens,  potatoes,  green  corn  pud* 
ding,  tomatoes,  plum  sauce;  sliced  peaches,  ice-cream,  cake.  Supper — 
Cold  chicken,  sliced  tomatoes,  baked  pears. 

6.  Breakfast — Breakfast  rolls,  fried  liver,  fried  tomatoes.  Dinner — Roast 
beef,  potatoes,  ^een  corn,  fried  egg  plant,  onion  salad;  watermelon.  Sup- 
per— ^Toasted  biscuit,  cold  beef,  fruit. 

7.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  hash,  green  corn  oysters.  Dinner — Meat 
pie,  j>otatoes,  young  turnips,  stewed  onions,  pickled  beets ;  apple  dumplings 
with  cream  sauce,  cake.     Supper— Canned  salmon,  bi.scuit  and  jam. 

8.  Breakfast — Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  chickens  broiled,  cucumbers.  Din- 
ner— Roast  mutton,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  green  corn,  apple  sauce,  sla^v  ; 
bread  pudding  with  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Toasted  bread,  sliced  mutton,  baket  I 
pears. 

9.  Breakfast — Corn  nmffins,  breakfast  stew  of  mutton,  tomatoes.  Din- 
ner— Veal  pot  pie,  Lima  beans,  baked  egg  plant;  peach  meringue,  lady  cake. 
Supper — Pressed  chicken,  warm  biscuit,  naked  sweet  apples. 

10.  Breakfast — Batter  cakes,  veal  croquettes,  cottage  cheese.  Dinner — 
Boiled  or  baked  fish  with  potatoes,  green  corn,  tomatoes,  slaw ;  peaches  and 
creani,  cake.    Supper — Cold  tongue,  bread  and  iced  milk. 

11.  Breakfast — Short  cake,  mutton  chops,  potatoes.  Dinner — Economical 
soup,  pickled  beets;  apple  meringue,  cake.  Supper— Soused  beef,  warm 
rolls,  CTapes. 

12.  SuncUn/.  Bpe>.kfa8t — Rolls,  breakfast  stew,  stewed  okra.  Dinner — 
Broiled  prairie  chicken,  sweet  potatoes,  green  corn,  boiled  cauliflower,  plum 
sauce,  cabbage  salad ;  ice-cream,  cake.  Supper — Sliced  veal,  biscuit,  baked 
pears. 

13.  Break  PA PT— Cream  toast,  prairie  chicken  stew,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — 
Boast  loin  of  veal,  potatoes,  baked  tomatoes,  onions,  cabbage;  apple  snow, 
cake.     Supper — Sliced  halibut,  dry  toast,  grapes. 

14.  Breakfast — Light  biscuit,  broiled  bacon,  tomatoes.  Dinner — Chicken 
pie,  potatoes,  Lima  beans,  stewed  onions,  slaw;  mixed  cake,  custard.  Sup- 
per— Sliced  veal,  biscuit,  baked  pears. 

15.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  broiled  steak,  tomatoes.  Dinner — Boiled 
bac(3n  with  potatoes  and  beans,  green  corn  pudding,  raw  tomatoes,  baked 
egg  plant ;  apple  i)ie,  cake.  Supper— Riiw  oysters  and  sliced  lemon,  biscuit 
And  cake. 

16.  Bre.\kfa8T — Hot  muffins,  fried  chicken,  fried  cabbage.  Dinner — 
Ragout  of  beef,  potatoes,  carrots,  corn ;  compote  of  pears.  Supper— Cold 
iliced  beef,  sliced  tomatoes,  egg.  rolls. 

17.  Breakfast— Buttered  toast,  poached  eggs,  broiled  ham.  Dinner — 
Devilled  crabs,  potatoes,  corn  stewed,  onions;  apple  meringue  pie.  Sup^ 
PER — Sardines,  toast,  baked  i)eaches. 

18.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  green  corn  fritters,  mutton  chops.  Dinner— 
Chicken  fricassee,  mashed  potatoes,  pickled  beets;  peach  cake  with  whipped 
cream.    Supper- -Sliced  veal  loaf,  warm  light  biscuit,  fried  bananas. 

19.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Nutmeg  melon,  fried  oysters,  baked  potatoes. 
Dinner — Baked  chickens,  sweet  potatoes,  succotash,  baked  tomatoes;  frozen 
eustard,  iniied  cakes,  watermelon.  Supper— Sliced  chicken,  biscuit,  apphi 
sauce. 

20.  Brr'.k fast— Nutmeg  melon,  corn  bread,  broiled  steak,  fried  sweet  po- 
tatoes. Dinner — Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  cojn,  escaloped  cauliflower;  wa- 
termelon, cake.     Supper — Cold  sliced  beef,  biscmil,  floating  island. 

21.  Breakfast— Hash,  fried  cabbage,  sliced  cucumbers.  Dinner — Meat 
pie,  young  turnips,  Lima  beans;  bread  and  apple  pudding  with  cream  sauce, 
cake.    Supper — Sliced  dried  beef,  baked  pears,  biscuit. 

22.  Breakfast — Hot  muftins,  fricasvseed  sweetbread,  fried  apples,  fried  raw 
potatoes.  Dinner — Boiled  beef  with  soup,  potatoes,  corn;  peaches  with 
eream,  cake.    Supper — Sliced  beef,  biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes  with  cream. 


398  A   YEARS  BILL  OF  FARE. 

23.  Brkakfast — Plain  bread,  com  oysters,  fried  potatoes,  mutton  choyis. 
Dinner — C^hicken  pudding  baked,  sweet  potatoes,  corn,  tomatoes;  apple  fri ti- 
ters with  sauce,  cake.  Supper— Cold  tongue,  biscuit,  blanc  mange  with 
jelly. 

24.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  steak,  tomatoes.  Dinner — Baked  or 
boiled  fish,  potatoes  boiled  in  jackets,  cscaloped  cauliflower,  slaw ;  baked  cus- 
tard, cake.     Supper — Mock  strawberries,  chipped  dried  beef,  pop-overs. 

25.  Breakfast — Bread  pufis.  codfish,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Broiled 
steak,  mashed  potatoes,  creamed  cabbage ;  «teamed  pudding  with  sauce,  cake. 
Supper — Beefsteak  toast,  rice  with  milk,  fruit. 

26.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Xutmeg  melon,  waffles,  broiled  chicken,  toma- 
toes. Dinner — Veal  pot  pie,  sweet  jx>tatoes,  corn,  baked  onions;  peach 
}>yramid,  ice  cream.    Supper — Toasted  bread,  canned  salmon,  Imked  pears. 

27.  Breakfast — Breakfast  rolls,  warmed-over  pot  pie,  fried  carrots.  Dix- 
ner — Roast  leg  of  mutton  with  {x)tatoes,  succotash ;  baked  apples,  cake. 
SnppER— Sliced  mutton,  warm  biscuit,  floating  island. 

28.  Breakfast — Hot  muffins,  broiled  beefsteak,  fried  raw  potatoes.  Diw- 
iTER — Meat  pie,  corn,  onions ;  corn  starch  pudding,  cake.  Suffer — Yankee 
dried  beef,  sliced  tomatoes,  ix^aches  and  cream. 

2t).  Breakfast — Melons,  hot  rolls,  broiled  chickens,  sliced  tomatoes.  Din- 
ner— Boiled  beef  with  potatoes,  turnips,  green  corn,  pickled  beets;  apple 
pie.  cakes.  Supper — Cold  corned  beef  chipped,  plain  bread  sliced  thin,  rusk, 
stewed  i>ears. 

30.  Breakfast — Fruit,  broiled  bacon,  com  bread,  fried  tomatoes.  Dm- 
her — Roast  lamb  with  mint  sauce,  baked  potatoes,  green  com  pudding, 
boiled  onions,  small  pickles;  cocoanut  pudding,  chocolate  cake,  fruit  SuP' 
PER — Cold  lamb  sliced,  cottage  cheese,  nght  buns,  peaches  and  cream. 

BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  OCTOBER. 

1.  Breakfast — Broiled  steak,  flannel  cakes,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Baked 
or  boiled  fish,  potatoes  boiled,  fried  egg  plant;  peach  pie,  cake.  Supper — 
Dried  beef  frizzled,  light  biscuit,  stewed  quinces. 

2.  Bre.\kfast — Veal  cutlets,  plain  omelet,  hot  biscuit,  fried  potatoes.  DiN- 
KER — Boiled  mutton  with  soup,  potatoes,  turm{)S,  carrots,  beets  and  pickles; 
ap])Ie  dumplings  with  sauce,  cake  and  fruit.  Supper — Cold  mutton  sliced, 
apple  sauce,  warm  biwuit,  cake,  jelly. 

6.  Sniutay.  Breakfast — Broiled  oysters,  baked  apples,  corn  batter  cakes. 
Dinner — Baked  chickens  stuflTed,  Lima  beans,  bakea  sweet  potatoes,  com, 
squash,  beets,  celery ;  frozen  i>eaches,  grapes,  cake.  Supper — Sardines,  bread, 
coffee  cake,  sliced  peaches. 

4.  Breakfast — Biscuit,  broiled  bacon,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Roast  beef 
with  potatoes,  turnips,  corn,  tomatoes ;  bread  nudding  with  sauce,  cake,  fruit. 
Supper — Sliced  boef,  bread,  cake,  slewed  poaches. 

5.  Bre-vkfast — Hash  or  beef  croquettes,  muffins,  fried  cabbage.  Dinner— 
Meat  pie,  steamed  potatoes,  corn,  fried  egg  plant.  ImtIs;  custard  baked,  cake, 
fruit.    Supper — Sliced  tongue,  bread,  chocolate,  blanc  mange,  rnsk. 

<).  Breakfast — Mutton  cno))s  broiled,  potatoes  fried,  buttered  toast  Din- 
ner—Veal  pot  pie.  sweet  jwtatoes,  lima  beans,  tomatoes,  pickles;  apple  frit- 
ters with  sauce,  grai)e  tarts,  ttike.  Supper— (-old  tongue,  currant  or  plum 
jelly,  baked  quinces. 

7.  Breakfast — Corn  muffins,  fried  liver,  fried  sweet  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Chicken  fricas.see,  baked  potatoes,  turnips,  l)eets;  rice  applet,  cake,  fruit. 
SrppKR — (thicken  i)ateH,  peaches  with  cream,  bread. 

8.  Breakfast — AVattles.  veal  cutlets,  {)Otato  croquettes,  DiNNER—Baked 
or  boiled  fish,  mashed  potatoes.  cf)rn.  stewed  tomatoes;  rice  pudding,  cocoa- 
trut  cake,  fruit.  Supper— ('anned  conu*d  beef  sliced,  buns,  fried  apples  with 
Bugar. 

9.  Breakfast— Bread   puffs,    croquettes  of  fish  with  potatoes,  iomatoeB. 


A   YEARS  BILL  OF  PARK  399 

Dinner — Saturday  bean  soup,  broiled  beafsteak,  boiled  cauliflower,  potatoes 
boiled  in  jackets,  pickles;  plain  boiled  pudding  with  sauce,  cake,  fruit.  Sup- 
per— Beaf steak  toast,  bread,  stewed  pears. 

10.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Baked  beans  with  Boston  brown  bread,  baked  apples 
with  cream.  Dinner— Oyster  soup,  roast  wild  duck,  grape  jelly,  celery, 
mashed  potatoes  and  turnips,  slaw ;  compote  of  pears,  cake.  Supper — Sliced 
duck,  bread  and  milk. 

11.  Breakfast — Graliam  gems,  broiled  mutton  chop,  croquettes  of  cold 
vegetables.  Dinner — Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  carrots,  plain  boiled  rice; 
baked  custard,  cake,  grapes.  Supper — Cold  beef  sliced,  bread,  rice  fritters 
with  sugar. 

12.  Breakfast — Hash,  fried  okra,  biscuit.  Dinner — Boiled  mutton  wit'. 
soup,  celery,  slaw ;  sliced  pineapples,  cake.  Supper— Sliced  mutton,  cotta^  ; 
cheese,  bread,  cake,  grape  jam. 

13.  Breakfast — Corn  batter  cakes,  croquettes  of  mutton  and  vegetables. 
Dinner — Beef  a  la  trwde,  mashed  jjotatoes  and  turnips,  succotash;  apples, 
grapes,  cake.    Supper — Cold  beef,  bread,  cake,  baked  pears. 

14.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  croquettes  of  cold  beef  and  vegetables. 
Dinner — Fried  or  smothered  chickens,  mashed  potatoes,  Lima  beans,  pickles; 
birti's  nest  pudding,  cake.    Supper — Canned  corned  beef  sliced,  rolls. 

15.  Breakfast — Broiled  mutton  chops,  fried  potato  cakes,  muffins.  Din- 
ner— Baked  or  boiled  fish,  boiled  whole  potatoes,  corn,  delicate  cabbage; 
peach  meringue,  cake.    Supper — Bologna  sausage,  toasted  muffins,  honey. 

16.  BRE.VKFA8T — Plain  breiid,  veal  cutlets,  breatkfast  wheat.  Dinner — Boiled 
beef  with  vegetables;  cocoanut  pudding,  cake.  Supper— housed  beef,  light 
biscuit,  fried  apples. 

17.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Vegetable  hash,  fried  oysters,  stewed  tomatoes. 
Dinner — Broiled  pheasant,  sweet  potat^3Cs,  tomatoes,  onion  sauce;  peach  me- 
ringue pie,  plum  jelly,  cake,  fruit.  Supper— Cold  beef  sliced,  rusk,  baked 
apples. 

18.  Breakfast — Biscuit,  veal  cutlets  breaded,  potatoes.  Dinner — Roast  beef 
with  potatoes,  tomatoes;  plain  boiled  rice,  cake.  Supper — Chipped  dried 
beef,  baked  apples,  rice  waffles  witli  sugar. 

19.  Breakfast — Veal  croquettes,  fried  ciibbage,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner^ 
Boiled  mutlton  with  soup,  potatoes,  squash;  apple  tapioca  pudding,  cake. 
Supper — Sliced  mutton,  light  buns,  fried  apples. 

20.  Breakfast — Pates  of  cold  mutton,  fried  potatoes,  plain  bread.  Din- 
ner— Boiled  corned  beef  with  potatoes,  turnips,  carrots, ;  plain  baiter  pud- 
ding, with  sauce,  cake,  fruit.  Supper — Sliced  corned  beef,  grupe  jam,  pop- 
overs. 

21.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  broiled  bacon,  fricasseed  potatoes.  Dinnei^— 
Meat  pie,  boiled  onions,  stewed  tomatoes,  beets;  apple  dumplings  with  sauce, 
cake.    Supper — Cold  pressed  meat,  cake,  stewed  grai>es. 

22.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  fried  fish,  corn  dodgers,  tomatoes.  Dinner— 
Baked  or  boiled  fish,  whole  boiled  potatoes,  tomatoes,  creamed  cabbage  ;  mo- 
lasses pudding,  cake.     Supper — Dried  beef  frizzled,  buns,  baked  apples. 

23.  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  mutton  chops,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — 
Broiled  steak,  Heidelberg  cabbage,  turnii>s,  pickles ;  cocoanut  pudding,  choi- 
olate  cake,  grapes.  Supper — Beefsteak  toast,  mu.sh  and  milk,  light  biscuit, 
baked  pears. 

24.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Fried  oysters,  fried  mush,  i>oaclied  eggs.  Dinner 
—Roast  wild  ducks,  grape  or  plum  jelly,  mashed  potatoes,  tomatoes,  Lima 
beans ;  sliced  peaches,  ice  cream,  cake,  grapes.  Supper — Sliced  duck,  sliced 
tomatoes,  sponge  cake,  jelly. 

96.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  broiled  ham,  tomatoes  or  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Roasted  beef  with  potatoes,  turnips,  plain  rice  boiled ;  sago  pudding,  cake. 
BuppER — Cold  sliced  beef,  bread,  butter,  apple  sauce. 

26.  Breakfast— Rice  cakes,  broiled  steak,  fried  potatoes.    Dinnert— Meat 


400  A   YEARS  BILL   OF  FARE. 

pie,  Lima  beans,  stuffed  cabbage  salad ;  molasses  pudding,  cake.    Supper-^ 
oaMines,  dry  toast,  baked  apples. 

27.  Hreak FAST— Hash  of  mutton,  Sally  Lunn,  fried  onions.  Dinitkk — 
Breaded  chicken,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  tomatoes;  baked  quinces,  cake. 
SuppEU — Cold  pre»skd  meat,  rolls,  fried  apples. 

28.  Breakfast— Hot  rolls,  veal  cutlets,  fried  sweet  potatoes.  Dinkeb — log- 
out of  beef,  potatoes,  turnij)s,  tomatoes  baked;  Italian  cream,  cake,  fruit. 
Supper — Dried  l)eef  chipiwd,  preserves  with  whipped  cream. 

29.  Breakfast — Corn  cakes,  broiled  bacon,  omelette.  Dinner — Baked  or 
boiled  tish,  wiiole  potatoes,  creamed  cabbage,  tomatoes,  beets ;  boiled  Indian 
pudding  w^ith  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Bologna  sausage,  rusk  toasted  hot. 
(|uince  jelly. 

30.  Breakfast — Fruit,  rolls,  broiled  mutton  chop,  potato  croquettes.  DiS" 
KER — Broiled  steak,  Saturday  bean  soup,  potatoes,  turnips  and  carrots, 
pickles;  warm  apple  pie,  fruit  cake.  Supper — Hot  biscuit,  cold  tongue,  fried 
apples,  tea  cakes. 

31.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Baked  l>eans,  Boston  brown  bread,  baked  apples. 
Dinner — Stewed  oysters,  roast  veal  with  sweet  potatoes,  apple  sauce,  lomatoei 
cabbage  salad ;  cola  apple  pie,  jelly  cake,  grapes  and  apples.  Supper — ^Toasted 
muffins,  sliced  veal,  bananas.  * 

BILL  OF   FAKE  FOR  NOVEMBER. 

1.  Breakfast — Biscuit,  croquettes  of  veal,  breakfast  hominy.  Dikner— 
Veal  stew,  turnips,  beet* ;  baked  apples  with  cream,  cake.  Supper — Cold  bis- 
cuit, bread  and  milk,  fried  apples. 

2.  Breakfast — Graham  ^ems,  fried  liver,  fried  cabbage,  raw  potatoes  fried. 
Dinner — Baked  chicken  with  potatoes  and  parsnips,  mashed  turnips,  celery; 
apple  (lumplin^^s  with  sauce,  oake.  Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold  sliced  chick- 
en, corn  sUirch  blanc  mange  with  jelly. 

3.  Breakfast — Breakfast  wheat,  chicken  croquettes,  i)lain  bread.  Dinner 
— Boiled  leg  of  mutton  with  soup,  macaroni  with  cheese,  boiled  cauliflower, 
whole  boiled  i)otatoes,  slaw ;  baked  custard,  jelly  cake.  Supper — Biscuit, 
dried  beef  frizzled,  hot  short  cake,  jam. 

4.  Breakfast — Corn  muffins,  broiled  liver,  hominy.  Dinner — Veal  pot 
pie,  escaloped  oysters,  celery,  slaw;  tapioca  cream,  cake.  Supper — ^Toasted 
muffins,  sliced  tongue,  rusk,"  stewed  pears. 

6.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  poached  eggs,  warmed-over  i>ot  pie.  Dinner 
—Baked  or  Ixnled  fish,  mashed  potatoes,  t4)mato  sauce,  beets;  custard  pie, 
cake.     Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold  pressed  meat,  bread  and  milk. 

6.  Breakfast — Bread  puffs,  croquettes  of  fish,  iKittitoes.  Dinner — Larded 
liver,  mashed  i>otatoes,  delicate  cabbage;  rice  pudding,  cake.  Supper — Cold 
biscuit,  apple  fritters  with  sugar,  tea  cakes. 

7.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  fried  chickens,  escaloped  eggs.  Din- 
ner— Roast  wild  goose  with  a])ple  sauce,  celerv.  turnij)s,  sweet  ])Otatoes; 
pumpkin  pie,  cake.  Supper — Tea  rolls,  cold  sliced  goose,  gelatine  blanc 
mange. 

s.  I5re\kfart — Corn  cake,  broiled  mutton  chops,  hominy.  Dinner — Roast 
beef  with  iwtatoes,  potatoes,  turnips,  cabbage  salad;  lemon  pie,  farina  pud- 
ding, cake.    Supper— <'ol<i  roast  beef,  bremi  fritters,  honey. 

9.  Breakfast — Sally  Lunn,  breakfast  stew,  fried  jiotatoes.  Dinner — Stewed 
beef,  mashed  boiled  onions,  mashed  ixitatoes,  Lima  beans,  jelly  ;  rice  apples, 
cake.    Supper — ^Toa.sted  Sally  Lunn,  sliced  cold  beef,  fried  apples,  rusk. 

10.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  fried  pork  steak,  |X)tato  cakes,  tomatoes. 
Dinner — lioiled  chicken  with  soup,  plain  rice,  whole  })otatoes,  slaw ;  apple 
dumplings,  cake.     Supper — ('old  cbicKen,  rice  fritters,  tea  cakes. 

11.  Bre\kfakt — Waffles,  broiled  steak,  fried  j)otatoes.  Dinner— Toad-in- 
the-hole,  whole  potatoes,  turnips,  onion  sauce;  cream  pie,  cake.  Suppkb-* 
Cold  rolls,  canned  salmon,  black  caps. 


A   YEARS  BILL   OF  FARK  401 

12.  Brbakfast — Fried  mush,  oyster  fritters,  plain  bread.  Dinner— Baked 
or  boiled  fish,  mashed  potatoes,  canned  peas,  tomatoes,  grape  jelly ;  cottage 
pudding  with  sauce.  Supper— Rolls,  cold  mutton  sliced,  nee  fritters,  jelly 
and  cake. 

13.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  croquettes  of  fish,  potato  cakes.  Dinner— Eco- 
nomical soup ;  Estelle  pudding,  cake.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  soused  beef,  stewed 
fruit,  tea  cakes. 

14.  Snwiuif.  Breakfast — Oyster  omelet,  vegetable  hash,  baked  apples,  pota- 
toes. Dinner — Stewed  oysters,  roast  wild  duck,  mashed  potatoes,  boiled 
onions,  celery;  Charlotte  russe,  fruit  cake.  Supper — Cold  duck  sliced,  light 
biscuit,  gravies,  sponge  cake,  currant  jelly. 

15.  Breakfast — Cream  toa.st,  broiled  pork,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — Roast 
beef,  sweet  potatoes,  lx>iled  turnips,  chicKen  salad;  economical  pudding.  Sup- 
per—Oatmeal  mush,  cold  roast  beef,  cranberry  tarts  cake. 

16.  Breakp.\6T— Graham  bread,  croquettes  of  duck,  potatoes.  Dinner— 
Spiced  beef  tongue,  baked  potatoes,  macaroni  with  cheese;  grapes,  cake. 
Supper — Toasted  Graham  bread,  cold  tongue,  baked  pears. 

17.  Breakfast — Batter  cakes,  broiled  mutton  chops,  potatoes.  Dinner-* 
Ovster  pie,  baked  sw^t  potatoes,  diced  turnips,  celery;  apple  pie  with 
whippea  cream.  Supper — Cold  rolls,  chipped  beef,  custard  cakes,  mar- 
malade. 

18.  Breakfast — Waffles,  hash,  fried  sweet  potatoes.  Dinner— Brown  stew, 
baked  potatoes,  plain  rice,  slaw;  pumpkin  pie,  cake.  Supper — Cold  sliced 
beef,  short  cake,  jam. 

19.  Breakfast — Corn  batter  cakes,  broiled  sausage,  hominy.  Dinner — ^Tur- 
hot,  mashed  potatoes,  turniiis,  Heidelberg  cabbage ;  prune  whip,  cake.  Sup* 
PER — Light  biscuit,  bologna  sausage,  baked  quinces. 

20.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  veal  cutlets,  ix^tatoes.  Dinner — Chicken  pot 
pie ;  warm  apple  pie,  cake.    Supper — Toasted  gems,  dried  beef,  baked  apples. 

21.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  oysters  with  pork,  friea  raw 
potatoes.  Dinner— Stewed  oysters,  roast  goose,  Texas  baked  )K)tatoes,  boiled 
onions,  cranberry  sauce,  celery;  peach  pie,  jelly  cake.  Supper — Cold  bis- 
cuit,  sliced  goose,  grapes,  cakes. 

22.  Breakfast — Breakfast  wheat,  broiled  steak,  potatoes,  plain  bread.  Din- 
ner— Roast  ^oose  warmed  over,  baked  i)otatoes,  macaroni  with  cheese;  grape 
pie,  cake.     Supper — Buttered  otLst,  cold  sliced  goose,  fried  apples,  rusk. 

23.  Breakfast — Corn  gems,  frieti  liver,  beefsteak,  potatoes.  Dinner— Roast 
pork  with  sweet  potatoes  or  parsnips,  tomatoes,  beets,  apple  sauce;  bread  and 
fruit  pudding,  cake.    Supper — Toasted  gems,  dried  beer,  canned  fruit. 

24. 'Breakfast — Pates  of  ]K)rk,  fried  sweet  potatoes,  plain  bread.  Din- 
ner— Beef  a  lamo4le,  steamed  potatoes,  Heidelberg  cabbage,  beets,  plain  rice ; 
eocoanut  pudding,  cake.    Supper — Col<l  meat,  rice  fritters,  baked  apples. 

25.  Thanksgiving  (lag.  Breakfast — Grapes,  oatmeal  with  cream,  panned 
oysters  with  toast,  hot  rolls,  broiled  mutton  chops,  raw  potatoes  fried, 
flannel  cakes  with  maple  syrup  or  honey.  Dinner— Turtle,  chicken,  of 
oyster  soup,  baked  fish  if  large  ar.d  fresh,  or  stewed  if  canned  (cod,  hal- 
ibut, or  salmon,)  nuushed  potatoes,  celery,  roast  turkey,  baked  sweet  j)<)ta 
toes,  Lima  beans,  stewed  toTnatoes,  onions.  l>eets,  cranberry  sauce,  cabbaj^e 
salad,  green  pickles;  pumpkin  pie.  mince  pie,  plum  pudding,  ice-cream,  as- 
sorted cakes,  oranges  and  grapes*,  nuts.  Srppp.R— Light  biscuit,  sliave<l  cold 
tnrkey,  currant  jelly,  cheese  sandwiches,  tea  cakes,  apples  and  jelly. 

26.  "Brkakpxrt— Buttered  toast,  turkey  hash  or  croquettes  of  meat  and 
vegetables.  Dinnbr— Escaloped  turkey.  turni])s,  beets,  potatoes,  slaw,  corn 
starch  pudding,  cAkes.  Suppek— Light  biscuit,  cold  turkey,  cranberry  sauce, 
Welsh  rarebit. 

27.  Brbakfast— Corn  bread,  broiled  spare  ribs,  iM)tatoes.  Dinner— Turkey 
soup,  venison  steak,  potatoes  a  la  pancake,  carrots,  boiled  beets;  custard 
pie,  cake.     Supper— Cold  rolls,  cold  tongue,  mush  and  milk. 

28.  Sunday.   Breakfast— Graham  gems,  veal  cutlets,  omelet.     Dinner— ^ 

26 


402  A   YEAR'S  BILL   OF  FARE. 

Oyster  roll,  cold  sliced  toiigiie,  turnips  mashed,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  cel- 
ery; pumpkin  pie,  grapes,  cake.  Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold  tongue,  cur- 
rant jelly,  cake. 

29.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  fried  venison,  fried  sweet  potatoes.  Dor- 
KER — Roast  mutton,  baked  potatoes,  baked  turnips,  plum  jelly;  grapea, 
chocolate  cake.     Supper — Lignt  biscuit,  sliced  mutton,  doughnuts, 

30.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  mutton  croquettes,  potatoes.  Dinner — ^Boiled 
corned  beef  with  turnips  and  potatoes,  pickled  oeets.  Chili  sauce ;  peach 
roll.    Supper — Cold  rolls,  sliced  corn  beer,  baked  apples,  rusk. 

BILL  OF  FARE    FOR  DECEMBER. 

1.  Breakfast — Corn  batter  cakes,  devilled  oysters,  fried  potatoes.  Diw- 
WER — Chicken  pie  with  oysters,  canned  Lima  beans,  cabba|:e  salad ;  pump- 
kin pie.  cake,    Supper — Hot  tea  rolls,  bologna  sausage,  canned  fruit,  cake. 

2.  Breakfast — Buckwheat  cakes,  sausage,  croquettes  of  hominy.  Dinner — 
Veal  pot-pie,  canned  tomatoes,  apple  sauce ;  eggle^  plum  pudding,  jelly  cake. 
Supper — Biscuits,  frizzled  beef,  fried  apples,  cake. 

3.  Breakfast — Waffles,  broiled  steak,  omelet.  Dinner — Stewed  fish, 
mashed  potatoes,  celery,  turnips ;  baked  apple  dumplings  with  solid  sauce, 
cake.    Supper — Toast,  pressed  meal,  cream  fritters,  apple  jelly. 

4  Breakfast — Graham  bread,  broiled  spare  ribs,  fried  raw  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Broiled  beefsteak,  Heidelberg  cabbage,  potato  souffle,  turnips,  celery; 
molasses  pudding,  cake.  Supper— Toasted  Graham  bread,  cold  tongue,  float- 
ing island. 

6.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Flannel  cakes,  beefsteak  toast,  potato  cakes.  Din- 
ner— Roast  haunch  of  venison,  mashed  {)otatoes,  tomatoes,  apple  sauce,  cel- 
ery ;  fig  pudding  with  lemon  sauce,  cake.  Supper — Tea  buns,  cold  venison, 
canned  fruit,  lady  fingers. 

6.  Breakfast— Cream  toast,  fricatelli,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — Baked  veal, 
potatoes,  plain  boiled  rice ;  peach  roll,  cake.  Supper — Cold  veal  sliced,  but- 
tered, toast  jelly  and  cake. 

7.  Breakfast— Sally  Lunn,  veal  patties,  corn  dodgers.  Dinner — Veal  pie, 
carrots,  boiled  beets ;  crumb  pie,  cake.  Supper — Toasted  Sally  Lunn,  baked 
apples  and  buns. 

8.  Breakfast — Corn  muffins,  breaded  veal, cutlets,  Saratoga  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Stewed  oysters,  roast  mutton  with  potatoes,  tomatoes,  celery;  pine- 
apple ice-cream,  jelly  cake.  Supper — Toasted  muffins,  cold  mutton  sliced, 
apple  croutes. 

9.  Breakfast — Hot  rolls,  cracked  wheat  breakfast  stew.  Dinner — Roast 
quails,  baked  potatoes,  Lima  beans,  celery;  pumpkin  pie,  cake.  Supper — 
Cold  rolls,  cold  tongue  sliced,  baked  apples,  tea  cakes. 

10.  Breakfast — Buckwheat  cakes,  smoked  sausage  broiled,  hominy  croe 
quettes.  Dinner — Baked  or  boiled  fish,  mashed  potatoes,  squash,  cabbag- 
salad ;  hot  peach  pie  wih  cream,  cake.'  Supper — Light  biscuit,  oyster 
steamed,  canned  fruit  with  cake. 

11.  Breakfast — Buckwheat  cakes,  rabbit  stewed,  potato  cakes.  Dinner — 
Chicken  fricassee,  baked  potatoes,  baked  turnips ;  cottage  pudding  with  sauce, 
cake.     Supper — French  rolls,  Welsh  rarebit,  jam. 

12.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Muffins,  broiled  spare  ribs,  fried  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Roast  turkey  garnished  with  fried  oysters,  mashed  potatoes,  turnips, 
cranberry  sauce,  celery,  English  carrot  pudding.  Supper — Light  biscuit,  cold 
turkey,  jelly  and  cake. 

13.  'Breakfa.st — Buttered  toast,  fried  apples,  cold  turkey  broiled.  Din- 
ner— Roast  turkey  warmed  over,  potatoes  whole,  canned  corn  ;  canned  fruit 
and  cream.    Supper — Cold  turkey,  mush  and  milk,  buns,  jam. 

14.  Breakfast — Plain  bread,  fried  corn,  mush,  breaKfast  bacon,  fried 
cabbage.    Dinner — Roast  beef  with  potatoes,  canned  tomatoes,  creamed  cab- 


A    YEARS  BILL  OF  FARE.  403 

bage,mince  pie,  cake.    Suppbr— Hot  short  cake,  boiled  oyster j  on  the  half 
shell,  tea  rolls,  canned  fruit. 

15.  Breakfast — Crumb  griddle  cakes,  breakfast  stew,  fried  potatoes.  Din- 
ner— Boiled  corned  beef  with  turnips,  potatoes  and  cabbage;  baked  apple 
dumplings  with  sauce,  cake.    Supper — Biscuit,  cold  beef,  canned  cherries. 

16.  Breakfast — Graham  rolls,  croquettes  of  codfish  with  potatoe.  Din- 
ner— Baked  chickens  with  parsnips,  mashed  potatoes,  celery,  (currant  jelly ; 
preserves  with  whipped  cream.  Suppsa— Plain  bread,  cold  chicken,  toasted 
rusk,  jelly. 

17.  Breakfast — Cream  toast,  broiled  steak,  potatoes.  Dinner — Steamed 
fish,  steamed  potatoes,  celery,  Lima  beans,  stewed  tomato ;  mince  pie.  Sup- 
per— Cold  rolls,  chicken  pates,  baked  apples. 

18.  Breakfast — Waffles,  croquettes  of^fish,  fried  potatoes.  Dinner — Sat- 
urday bean  soup,  broiled  venison  steak,  mashed  potatoes,  beets ;  vinegar  pie, 
cake.    Supper — ^Toast,  cold  ham,  buns,  jellv. 

19.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Buttered  toast,  broiled  ovsters,  potato  cakes,  fried 

Krsnips.    Dinner — Roast    domestic    ducks,  mashed  potatoes  and    turnips, 
iled  onions,  celery  sauce,  plum  jelly  ;  fig  pudding  with  lemon  sauce,  cake. 
Supper — ^Tea  rolls,  salmi  of  duck,  apple  croutes. 

20.  BREAKFA8T---Corn  batter  cakes,  oroiled  bacon,  potatoes.  Dinner — Roast 
spare  rib,  baked  potatoes,  salsify,  cabbage  salad ; plain  Indian  pudding  with 
sauce.     Supper — Biscuit,  cold  pressed  meat,  sliced  apples. 

21.  Breakfast — Johnny  cake,  sausage,  hominy  croquettes.  Dinner— 
Roast  rabbits,  baked  potatoes,  slaw;  apple  meringue  pie,  jelly  cake.  Sup- 
per— Light  biscuit,  dried  beef  frizzled. 

22.  BREAKFAST^Fried  pork  steak,  fried  raw  (xjtatoes,  fried  cabbage.  Din- 
ner— Venison  roast  with  ;x>tatoes,  boiled  onions,  plum  jelly  ;  chocolate  pud- 
ding, cake.     Supper — Sliced  venison  with  jelly,  sweet  wafers,  canned  fruit. 

23.  Breakfast — Breakfast  stew  of  cold  venison,  fried  potatoes,  Indian  pan- 
cakes. Dinner — Spanish  pot-pie,  canned  tomatoes;  starch  pudding.  Sup- 
per—Graham  raush  and  milk  and  jam. 

24.  Breakf.\st — Sally  Lunn.  broiled  beefsteak,  ])ot&toes  a  la  Lyontiaise,  bread 
cakes  with  syrup.  Dinner — (thicken  soup,  chicken  dressed  with  parsley  and 
eg^  sauce,  potatoes,  salsify,  slaw ;  hot  apple  pie  with  cream.  Supper — Cold 
chicken,  French  rolls,  apple  sauce. 

25.  ChHstnvis.  Breakfast — Grapes  and  bananas,  broiled  oysters  on  toast, 
waffles  with  honev.  Dinner — Raw  oysters  served  with  sliced  lemon :  turtle 
soup ;  baked  fresh  fish ;  roiist  turkey  garnished  with  fried  oj'sters,  mashed 
potatoes,  Lima  beans,  pickled  boets,  mayonaise  of  chicken  salad,  celery,  cran- 
berry sauce;  Christnuis  |)lum  pudding  with  rich  sauce;  njince  pie,  snong© 
and  lady  cake  mixed,  fruit  and  nuts.  Supper  or  Luncheon — Curriea  oys- 
ters. Vienna  rolls,  slaw,  apple  trifle  with  whipped  cream,  lady  fingers,  cake. 

26.  Sunday.  Breakfast — Corn  muffins,  oyst^'rs  in  shell,  croquettes  of  tur- 
key, potato*  rissoles.  Dinner — Turkey  soup,  quail  on  toast,  walled  oysters, 
boiled  onions,  celery  and  slaw ;  ice-cream,  cake.  Supper — Bread  and  milk, 
lemon  fritters  with  suj»ar,  rusk. 

27.  Breakfvst — Buckwheat  cakes,  broiled  spare  ribs  or  sausage,  pates  of 
turkey  hot  with  gravy,  hominy.  I>ixxer — Escaloped  turkey,  baked  pota- 
toes, canned  corn;  mince  pie.  calces.     Supper — Biscuit,  cold  tongue,  cakes. 

28.  Breakp.\.st — Hot  rolls,  fried  liver,  oysteromelet.  Dinner — Oyster  soup, 
roast  pig  fgarnished  with  hoquettes  oif  beets,  carrots  and  green  pieklea 
carved),  wliole  steamed  potatf>eH,  par8nii>s,  beets,  macaroni  with  cheese ; 
peach  pie  with  cream.     Supper — Cold  rolls.sliced  tongue,  apple  croutes,  cake. 

29.  Breakfast— Cream  toast,  veal,  sweet  breads,  potatoes  **  fried  whole." 
Dinner — Mutton  soup,  mutton  dressed  with  caper  sauce,  baked  potatoes, 
canned  peas,  celery,  cranberry  jelly;  cocoanut  pudding,  cake.  Supper — Cold 
mutton,  short  cake  with  jam' 

30.  Breakfast — Graham  gems,  broiled  veal  cutlets,  fried  potatoes.     Din^ 
, — RoBJSt  stuffed  chicken,  mashed  potatoes,  salsify,  canned  corn,  currant 


404  A  YEARS  BILL   OF  FARE. 

Jelly,  celery ;  prairie  plum  pudding.    Suppkb— Raw  oysters,  French  roUB, 
jellied  chicken,  grai>e  jelly,  assorted  cakes. 

31.  Breakfast — Fried  oysters,  {Kttatoes  a  la  Duchesse^  waffles  with  maple 
syrup,  baked  apples.  Dinner — Boiled  fish  with  Hollandaise  sauce,  steamed 
potatoes,  canned  tomatoes,  canned  succotaali ;  queen  of  puddings.  Sufpbr — 
Fricasseed  oysters,  slaw,  celery,  waffles  and  honey,  canned  pears. 

Note.— Observe  that  these  bills  of  fare  are  made  with  especial  reference  to  the  ordixiary 
routine  of  the  week  in  the  kitchen,  the  meals  for  each  day  being  planned  to  save  labor 
and  fuel,  and  to  interfere  as  little  as  possible  with  the  special  work  of  the  day.  Thus 
Monday's  bill  of  fare  will  not  fit  any  other  day  of  the  week,  if  Monday  is  set  apart  as 
washing  day.  The  housekeeper  should  aim  at  variety  on  successive  meals  rather 
than  in  the  same  meal,  rememDering  that  a  few  dishes  daintiiy  cooked  and  served  make 
a  far  more  attractive  dinner  than  many  dishes  less  perfectly  cooked  and  served. 

ADDITIONAL  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

New  Year*8  Table. — ^When  receiving  calls  on  New  Year's  day,  the  table 
should  be  handsomely  arranged  and  decorated,  and  provided  with  rather 
substantial  dishes,  such  as  would  suit  the  taste  of  gentlemen.  Too  great 
profusion,  especially  of  cakes,  confectionery,  and  ices,  is  out  of  taste.  Selec- 
tions may  be  made  from  the  following:  Escaloped  oysters;  cold  tongue, 
turkey,  chicken,  and  ham,  pressed  meats,  boned  turkey,  jellied  chicken; 
sandwiches  or  wedding  sandwich  rolls  ;  pickled  oysters,  chicken  and  lobster 
salads,  cold  slaw  garnished  w^ith  fried  oysters ;  bottled  pickles,  French  or 
Spanish  pickles;  jellies;  charlotte-russe, 'ice-creams,  ices;  two  large  hand- 
some cakes  for  decoration  of  table,  and  one  or  two  baskets  of  mixed  cake, 
fruit,  layer,  and  sponge  cake  predominating  ;  fruits;  nuts;  coffee,  chocolate 
with  whipped  cream,  lemonade. 

Refreshments. — For  small  evening  parties,  sociables,  receptions,  etc., 
where  the  refreshments  are  handed  round  or  are  served  on  a  siaeboard,  and 
are  of  a  simple  character,  every  thing  should  be  excellent  in  the  highest 
degree,  delicately  prepared,  and  attractively  served.  Sandwiches  and  coffee, 
chocolate  or  tea,  a  variety  of  nice  cake,  jellies,  ice-cream  or  ices,  and  fruits 
are  appropriate.  For  a  more  pretentious  occasion,  a  simple  table  prettily 
decorated  with  flowers,  and  set  with  fruit,  lobster  salad,  chicken  croquettes, 
pickled  oysters,  and  one  or  two  kinds  of  ice-cream  and  cake,  and  coffee  and 
tea  is  quite  enough. 

Refreshments  for  Twenty. — For  a  company  of  twenty  allow  one  gallon 
oysters,  four  chickens  and  eight  bunches  of  celery  for  chicken  salad,  fifty 
sandwiches,  one  gallon  of  ice-cream,  two  molds  charlotte-russe,  two  quarts 
of  lemon  jelly,  one  light  and  one  dark  fruit  cake,  two  layer  cakes,  and  one 
white  or  sponge  cake;  for  coffee  use  one  and  a  half  pints  ground  coffee  and 
one  gallon  of  w^ater;  fruit  cake  especially,  and,  indeed,  all  rich  cake,  should 
be  cut  in  thin  slices  with  a  keen-edged  knife ;  a  small  piece  of  each  variety  is 
always  preferred  to  a  plate  overloaded  with  one  or  two  kinds. 

Refreshments  for  a  Hundred. — For  a  larger  company  of  a  hundred  the 
refreshments  may  be  more  elal)orate:  Two  gallons  of  pickled  oysters;  two 
large  dishes  of  lobster  salad;  two  small  haras  boiled  and  sliced  cold,  five  cold 
tongues  sliced  thin,  twelve  chickens  jellied  or  pressed,  each  dish  gamish<»d 
with  sprigs  of  jiarsley,  slices  of  lemon  and  red  beets,  or  curled  leaves  of 
celery,  or  the  tender  center  leaves  of  lettuce;  two  gallons  of  bottled  pickles 
or  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  home-made;  twelve  dozen  biscuit  sandwiches ;  five 
quarts  jelly,  four  gallons  ice-cream ;  fifteen  large  cakes,  to  be  made  from 
recipes  for  rich  fruit,  delicate,  layer,  and  sponge  cakes ;  twelve  dozen  each  of 
almond  macaroons  and  variety  puffs;  four  large  dishes  of  mixed  fruits;  five 
pounds  roasted  coffee  and  five  gallons  water,  which  should  be  served  at  the 
Deginning,  and  six  gallons  of  iced  lemonade  to  serve  at  the  close. 

Refreshments  for  One  Hundred  and  Seventy-Five. — Six  gallcais  oys- 
ters; three  small  hams,  five  large  turkeys,  ten  tongues;  six  chickens  and 
twelve  bunches  of  celery  for  salad;  three  gallons  pickles;  seventeen  dozen. 


BILLS  OF  FARE.  405 

buti^,  twelve  loaves  bread  made  in  wedding  sandwich  rolls  or  in  plain  sand- 
wiches; twenty-two  large  cakes;  fifteen  dozen  large  oranges  sliced,  seventeen 
dozen  meringues,  tifteeii  dozen  pears,  thirty  pounds  grapes;  seven  gallons  ice- 
cream and  four  gallons  lemon  ice ;  coffee  made  of  twelve  pints ^ound  coffee 
and  eight  gallons  water ;  serve  colfee  at  the  beginning,  and  lemonade  at  the 
close. 

FOR  THE  PICNIC. 

In  the  "Sunny  South,"  picnics  are  in  order  as  early  as  April,  but  in  the 
more  northern  latitudes  should  never  be  attempted  before  the  latter  part  of 
May  or  June,  and  September  and  October  are  the  crowning  months  for  them 
around  the  northern  lakes,  where  hunting  ajid  fishing  give  zest  to  the  sports. 
First,  he  up  "at  live  o'clock  in  the  mornmg,"  in  order  to  have  the  chicken, 
biscuit,  etc.,  freshly  baked.  Provide  two  baskets,  one  for  the  provisions,  aiut 
the  other  for  dishes  and  utensils,  which  should  include  the  following :  Table- 
cloth and  an  oil-cloth  to  put  under  it,  napkins,  towels,  plates,  cups,  forks,  a 
few  knives  and  table-spoons,  tea-spoons,  sauce  dishes,  tin  cups  (or  tumblers,  if 
the  picnickers  are  of  the  over-fastidious  variety);  a  tin  bucket,  for  water,  in 
which  a  bottle  of  cream,  lemons,  oranges,  or  other  fruit  may  be  carried  to  the 
scene  of  action;  i^nother  with  an  extra  close  cover,  partly  filled  with  made 
chocolate,  wliich  may  be  readily  reheated  by  setting  in  an  old  tin  pail  or  pan 
in  which  water  is  kept  boiling  a  la  custard-kettle;  a  frying-pan;  a  coffee-pot, 
with  the  amount  of  prepared  coffee  needed  tied  in  a  coarse,  white  flannel 
bag;  a  tea-pot,  with  tea  m  a  neat  paj^ier  package ;  tin  boxes  of  salt,  pepper, 
ana  sugar;  a  tin  box  for  butter  (if  carried)  placed  next  to  block  of  ice,  which 
should  be  well  wrapped  with  a  blanket  and  put  in  a  shady  corner  of  the  pic- 
nic wagon.  For  extra  occasions,  add  a  freezer  filled  with  frozen  cream,  with 
ice  well  packed  around  it,  and  heavily  wrapped  with  carpeting.  To  pack  the 
basket,  nrst  j>ut  in  plates,  cups,  and  sauce  dishes  carefully  with  the  tow- 
els and  napkixis,  and  paper  if  needed ;  then  add  the  rest,  fitting  them  in 
tightly,  ana  covering  all  with  the  table-cloth,  and  over  it  the  oil-cloth.  Tie 
the  coffee  and  tea-pots,  well  wrapped  up,  and  the  frying-pan  to  the  handles. 
Pack  provision  basKet  as  full  as  the  law  allows,  or  as  the  nature  of  the  occa- 
sion and  the  elasticity  of  the  appetites  demand. 

The  following  bills  of  fare  may  be  picked  to  pieces  and  recombined  to  suit 
tastes  and  occasions: 

Spring  Picnics. — Cold  roast  chicken;  ham  broiled  on  coals;  fish  fried  or 
broiled;  sardines;  tongue;  hard  boiled  eggs;  eg^  to  be  fried  or  scrambled; 
Boston  corn  bread;  buttered  rolls;  ham  sandwiches  prepared  with  grated 
ham;  orange  marmalade;  canned  peaches;  watermelon  and  beet  sweet- 
pickles;  euchered  plums;  variety  or  bottled  pickles;  chow-chow;  quince 
or  plum  jelly;  njspberry  or  other  jams;  Scotch  fruit,  rolled  jelly,  chocolate, 
Minnehaha,  old-fiusnioiied  loaf,  and  marble  cake ;  coffee,  chocolate,  tea;  cream 
and  sugar ;  salt  and  pep])er ;  oranges. 

Sum  .M  ER  «  Picnics. — Cold  baked  or  broiled  chicken;  cold  boiled  ham; 
pickled  salmon;  cold  veal  loaf;  Parker  House  rolls;  light  bread;  box  of 
butter;  green  corn  boiled  or  roasted;  new  potatoes;  sliced  tomatoes;  sliced 
cucumbers;  French  and  Spanish  pickles;  peach  and  pear  sweet-pickles; 
lemon  or  orange  ielly;  strawberries,  raspbernes,  or  blackberries;  lemonade, 
soda-beer  or  raspberry  vinegar ;  coffee  and  tea;  ice-cream;  lemon  or  siraw- 
berry-ice;  sponge,  white,  Buckeye,  or  lemon  cake;  watermelon,  muskmelon, 
nutmeg-melon. 

Fall  Picnics. — Broiled  prairie  chicken;  fish  chowder;  clam  chowder; 
clams  roasted  or  fried;  beef  omelet;  cold  veal  roast;  sardines;  cold  roast 
chicken;  pot  of  pork  and  beans;  rusk,  Minnesota  rolls,  Baston  brown  bread ; 
potatoes,  Irish  or  sweet,  roasted  in  ashes;  egg  sandwiches  (hard-boiled  egss, 
sliced,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  between  buttered  breaa); 
mangoes;  piccalilli;  Chili  sauce;  quince  nuirmulade;  bakeil  apples;  musk 
and  nutmeg-melon;  crab  apple  jelly;  grape  jelly;  black,  orange,  velvet, 
sponge,  and  three-ply  cake ;  combinatipu  pie. 


FRAGMENTa 


Mother's  hash  does  n't  taste  of  soap  grease,  rancid  batter,  spoiled  cheese^ 
raw  flour,  boarding-house  skillets,  hotel  coffee,  garden  garlics,  bologna  sau- 
sage, or  cayenne  pepper;  neither  is  it  stewed  and  simmered  and  simmered 
and  stewed,  but  is  made  so  nicely,  seasoned  so  delicately,  and  heated  through 
00  quickly,  that  the  only  trouble  is,  **  there  is  never  enough  to  go  round."' 
Cold  meat  of  any  kind  will  do,  but  corned  beef  is  best ;  always  remove  all 
surplus  fat  and  bits  of  gristle,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  chop  fine,  and  to 
one-third  of  meat  add  two-thirds  of  chopped  cold  boiled  potato,  and  one 
onion  chopped  very  fine;  place  in  the  dripping-pan,  dredge  with  a  little 
flour,  and  pour  in  at  the  side  of  the  pan  enough  water  to  come  up  level  with 
the  hash,  place  in  oven,  and  do  not  stir;  when  the  flour  is  a  light-brown,  and 
has  formed  a  sort  of  crust,  take  out,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  stir  it  through 
fleveral  times,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  hash.    Or,  by  cooking  longer,  it 
may  be  made  of  cold  raw  potatoes,  which  peel,  slice,  and  let  lie  in  salt  and 
water  a  half  hour  before  chopping.    If  of  meat  and  potatoes,  always  use  the 
proportions  given  above,  and  before  chopping,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  chopped  onion  if  you  like  (if  onions  are  not  to  be  had,  take  tliem  out 
of  pickle  jar),  place  in  hot  skillet  with  just  enough  water  to  moisten,  add  a 
little  butter  or  some  nice  beef  drippings,  stir  often  until  warmed  through, 
cover  and  let  stand  on  a  moderately  hot  part  of  the  stove  fifteen  minutes. 
When  ready  to  dish,  run  the  knife  under  and  fold  as  you  would  an  omelet, 
and  serve  hot  with  tomato  catsup.    In  making  hash  meats  may  be  combined 
if  there  is  not  enough  of  a  kind.    Do  not  make  hash  or  any  other  dish  greasy. 
It  is  a  mistaken  idea  to  think  that  fat  and  butter  in  large  quantities  are 
necessary  to  good  cooking.    Butter  and  oils  may  be  melted  without  changing 
their  nature,  but  when  cooked  they  become  much  more  indigestible  and 
injurious  to  weak  stomachs. 


AFTER  THANKSGIVING   DINNER, 


a  most  excellent  hash  may  be  made  thus :  Pick  meat  off  turkey  bones,  shred 
it  in  small  bits,  add  dressing  and  pieces  of  light  biscuit  cut  up  fine,  mix 
together  and  put  into  dripping-pan,  pour  over  any  gravy  that  was  left,  add 
water  to  thoroughly  moisten,  but  not  enough  to  make  it  sloppy;  place  in  a 
hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  and,  when  eaten,  all  will  agree  that  the  turkey 
is  better  this  time  than  it  was  at  first;  or  warm  the  remnants  of  the  turkey 
over  after  the  style  of  escaloped  oysters  (first  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  then 
minced  turkey,  and  so  on);  or  add  an  egg  or  two  and  make  nice  breakfast 
croquettes.  The  common  error  ,^n  heating  over  meats  of  all  kinds  is  pitting 
(406) 


FRAGMENTS,  407 

into  a  cold  skillet,  and  cooking  a  long  time.  This  second  cooking  is  more 
properly  only  heating,  and  should  be  quickly  done.  All  such  dishes  should 
he  served  hot  with  some  sort  of  tart  jelly.  Always  save  a  can  of  currant 
juice  (after  filling  jelly  cups  and  glasses),  from  which  to  make  jelly  in  the 
'Winter,  and  it  will  taste  as  fresh  and  delicious  as  when  made  in  its  season. 

ALWAYS  SAVE 

all  the  currants,  skimmings,  pieces,  etc.,  leftafter  making  jelly,  place  in  astone 
jar,  cover  with  soft  water  previously  boiled  to  purify  it,  let  stand  several 
days ;  in  the  meantime,  take  your  apple  peelings,  without  the  cores,  and  pu  r 
on  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  water,  boil  twenty  minutes,  drain  into  a 
large  stone  jar ;  drain  currants  also  into  this  jar,  add  all  the  rinsings  from 
your  molasses  jugs,  all  dribs  of  syrups,  etc.,  and  when  jar  is  full,  drain  off 
-all  that  is  clear  into  vinegar  keg  (where,  of  course,  you  have  some  good  cider 
vinegar  to  start  with).    If  not  sweet  enough,  add  brown  sugar  or  molasses, 
oover  the  bung-hole  with  a  piece  of  coarse  netting,  and  set  in  the  sun  or  by 
the  kitchen  stove.    In  making  vinegar  always  remember  to  give  it  plenty  ol 
air,  and  it  is  better  to  have  the  cask  or  barrel  (which  should  be  of  oak)  only 
half  full,  so  that  the  air  may  pass  over  as  large  a  surface  as  possible.    Vine- 
gar must  also  have  plenty  of  material,  such  as  sugar,  molasses,  etc.,  to  work 
u}X)n.   Never  use  alum  or  cream  of  tartar,  as  some  advise,  and  never  let  your 
vinegar  freeze.    Paint  your  barrel  or  cask  if  you  would  have  it  durabla. 
Company,  sickness,  or  other  circumstances  may  prevent  making 

SWEBT  PICKLES 

in  their  season,  but  they  can  be  prepared  very  nicely  at  any  time,  by  taking 
pear,  peach,  plum,  or  apple  preserves,  and  pouring  hot  spiced  vinegar  over 
them ;  in  a  few  days  they  will  make  a  delightful  relish.  It  very  often  hap- 
pens in  putting  up  cucumber  pickles  that  you  can  only  gather  or  buy  a  few 
at  a  time ;  these  can  be  easily  pickled  in  the  following  manner :  Place  in  a 
|ar,  sprinkle  with  salt,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  salt  to  a  peck  cucumbers, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  drain,  cover  with 
fresh  hot  water;  after  another  twenty-four  hours,  drain,  place  in  a  jar,  and 
€over  with  cold,  not  very  strong  vinegar ;  continue  to  treat  each  mess  in  this 
manner,  using  the  tyro  jars,  one  for  scalding  and  the  other  as  a  final  recep- 
tacle for  the  pickles,  until  you  have  enough,  when  drain  and  cover  with 
boiling  cider  vinegar,  add  spices,  and  in  a  few  days  they  will  be  ready  for 
use.    Never  throw  away  even 

A  CRUMB  OP  BREAD, 

but  save  it  and  put  with  other  pieces ;  if  you  have  a  loaf  about  to  mold,  cut 
!n  thin  slices,  place  all  together  in  a  dripping-pan  and  set  in  oven  to  dry, 
and  you  will  find  that  when  pounded  and  rolled  it  will  be  very  nice  for 
dressing,  staffing,  puddings,  griddle-cakes,  etc.  When  to  be  used  for  bread- 
ing meats,  etc.,  it  must  be  made  very  fiihc.  Keep  in  a  covered  box,  or  in  a 
paper  bag  tied  securely  and  hung  in  a  dry  place.  It  is  much  more  economi- 
cal to  prepare  meats  with  a  dressing  of  some  kind,  since  they  '*go  so  much 
further." 


408  FRAGMENTS. 

Sausage  Toabt  is  made  by  scalding  the  sausages  in  boiling  water,  frying 
to  light  brown,  chop  tine,  and  spread  on  bits  of  toast. 

Ham  BALLs.^-Chop  fine,  cold,  cooked  ham ;  add  an  egg  for  each  person,  and 
a  little  flour;  beat  together,  make  into  balls,  and  fry  brown  in  hot  Dutter. 

Corn-Meal  Cakb. — Two-thirds  cup  butter^  one  cup  sugar,  three  eggs 
beaten  separately,  two  and  a  half  cups  corn  meal,  one  and  a  half  of  floar, 
two  of  sweet  milk,  f^'o  tea-spoons  cream  tartar,  oqe  of  soda. 

Philadelphia  Scrapple.— Mix  potatoes  (or  any  cold  vegetables)  and  meat, 
turn  into  a  skillet  with  meat  gravy  from  previous  day.  Stir  up  until  dry 
and  crisp,  resembling  a  very  dry  luush  ;  serve  in  small  deep  dish. 

To  Clarify  Molasses. — Heat  over  the  fire  and  pour  in  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk  to  each  gallon  of  molasses.  The  impurities  rise  in  scum  to  the  top, 
which  must  be  skimmed  off  before  the  boiling  breaks  it.  Add  the  milk  as 
soon  as  placed  over  the  fire,  mixing  it  thoroughly  with  the  molasses. 

Cucumber  Relish  may  be  made  of  the  large  cucumbersA  Pare  and  cue  in 
two,  take  out  seeds,  and  grate,  strain  out  most  of  the  water,  season  highly 
with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  little  sugar,  and  as  much  vinegar  as  you  hare 
cucumbers ;  put  in  small  bottle  and  seal. 

Beefsteak  Toast. — Chop  cold  steak  or  tongue  very  fine,  cook  in  a  little 
water,  put  in  cream  or  milk,  thicken,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
and  pour  it  over  slices  of  toast.  Prepare  boiled  ham  in  the  same  way,  adcung 
the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

Breakfast  Puffs  may  be  made  on  baking  day,  by  taking  up  a  little 
dough,  pulling  out  to  thickness  of  doughnuts,  cut  two  and  one-half  inches 
in  length,  drop  in  boiling  lard,  and  fry  like  doughnuts;  to  be  eaten  with 
butter  like  biscuit. 

Shelled  Almonds  are  more  economical  for  use  in  cakes.  One  pound 
of  unshelled  almonds  only  makes  six  and  one-half  ounces  or  one  co^-cnp- 
ful  when  shelled,  while  the  unshelled  are  generally  only  double  the  price, 
and  sometimes  not  that  per  pound. 

Mixed  Sandwiches. — Chop  fine,  cold  ham,  tongue  and  chicken ;  mix  with 
one  pint  of  the  meat  half  a  cup  melted  butter,  one  table-spoon  salad-oil,  one 
of  mustard  if  desired,  the  yolk  of  a  beaten  egg,  and  a  little  pepper ;  spread 
on  bread  cut  thin  and  buttered.    Ham  alone  may  be  prepared  in  this  way. 

Steak  Pudding. — Mix  one  quart  flour,  one  pound  suet  (shredded  fine),  a 
little  salt,  and  cold  water  to  make  stiff  as  for  pie-crusty  roll  out  half  an  inch 
thick ;  have  steak  (beef  or  mutton)  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt^  lay 
them  on  the  paste  and  roll  it  up,  tie  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  tliree  hours.  Some 
add  a  few  oysters  and  a  sliced  onion  to  the  steak. 

Mutton  Pie  and  Tomatoes. — Spread  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish  with 
bread-crumbs,  and  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  cold  roast  mutton,  cut  in  thin 
slices,  and  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced;  season  each  layer  with  pepper,  salt 
and  bits  of  butter.  The  last  layer  should  be  of  tomatoes  spread  with  bread- 
crumbs.    Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve  immeaiately. 

Lancashire  Pie. — Take  cold  beef  or  veal,  chop,  and  sea.son  as  for  hash; 
have  ready  hot  mashed  potatoes  seasoned  as  if  tor  the  table,  and  put  in  a 
shallow  baking-dish  first  a  layer  of  meat,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on, 
till  dish  is  heaping  full ;  smooth  over  top  of  potatoes,  and  make  little  holes 
in-  which  place  bits  of  butter;  bake  until  a  nice  brown. 

Bread-crumbs  for  Pastry. — Many  puddings  that  are  commonly  baked  in 
a  crust,  such  as  cocoa-nut,  potato,  apple,  and  lemon,  are  equally  as  good  and 
more  wholesome,  made  by  strewing  grated  bread-crumbs  over  a  buttered 
pie-plate  or  pudding-dish  to  the  usual  depth  of  crust ;  pour  in  the  pudding, 
strew  another  layer  of  bread-crumbs  over  the  top,  and  oake. 

Squab  Pie. — Trim  a  deep  dish  with  paste  as  for  chicken  pie,  put  in  a  laver 
of  sliced  sour  apples,  season  with  sugar  and  spice  ;  add  a  layer  of  fresh,  rather 
lean  pork,  sliced  thin,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  and  thus  place  alter- 
nate layers  of  apple  and  pork  until  the  dish  is  nearlv  full;  put  in  a  little 
water  and  cover  with  paste ;  bake  slowly  until  thoroughly  done. 


FBAGMENTS.  409 

Mabsh  Mallow  Paste. — ^Dissolve  one  poand  of  clean  gum  arabic  in  one 
a«art  of  water ;  strain,  add  one  pound  ol  refined  sugai\  and  place  over  the 
nie,  stirring  continually  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  ana  the  mixture  has  be- 
come the  consistency  of  honey.  Next,  add  gradually  the  whites  of  eight 
eggB  well  beaten,  stirring  the  mixture  all  the  time,  until  it  loses  its  sticki- 
ness and  does  not  adhere  to  the  finders  when  touched.  The  mass  may  now 
be  poured  out  into  a  pan  or  box,  slightly  dusted  with  starch,  and  when  cool 
divided  into  small  soiiares. 

Apple  Cboutes.— rare,  halve  and  core  good  smooth  apples,  cut  slices  of 
bread;  without  crust,  to  fit  the  fiat  side  of  each  half  apple ;  dust  the  apple  all 
over  with  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  arrange  these  on  the  slices  of 
bread  in  a  pie  plate,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  apples  will  retain  their 
shape,  and  if  peeled  with  care  or  carved  lightly  in  shells  or  other  fanciful 
designs  make  a  very  presentable  dish  for  tea  or  a  hasty  lunch,  beside  being 
simple  and  healthy. 

Ecokomical  Indian  Pudding. — Scald  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  into  it  stir 
five  rounded  tablespoons  Indian  meal,  one  teacup  brown  sugar  or  five  table- 
spoons molasses,  one  teaspoon  finger,  and  a  little  salt ;  put  in  moderate  oven 
to  bake,  and  in  half  an  hour  stir  in  one  cup  cold  rich  milk ;  bake  two  hours. 
This  is  much  improved  by  adding  a  teacup  of  raisins  when  the  cold  milk  is 
added.    Serve  with  cream  or  hot  sauce. 

Soused  Bbef  left  after  soup.  Cut  the  meat  and  bristle  off  bone  in  small 
pieces,  salt,  pepper  and  spice  with  mace,  and  pour  over  it  hot  vinegar,  or  an 
equal  quantity  of  water  and  strong  vinegar  will  be  better.  Good  for  supper; 
may  be  warmed  over  for  breakfast. 

An  Economical  Dish. — Season  mashed  potatoes  with  salt,  pepper,  butter 
and  cream ;  place  a  layer  in  a  pie  dish ;  upon  this  place  a  layer  of  cold 
meat  or  fish,  finely  chopped,  then  alternate  until  dish  is  full;  then  strew 
bread  crumbs  over  top  and  bake  brown. 

To  Regulate  Time  in  Cookery. — Mutton — A  leg  of  eight  pounds  will  re- 
quire two  hours  and  a  half;  a  chine  or  saddle  of  ten  or  eleven  pounds,  two 
hours  and  and  a  half;  a  shoulder  of  seven  pounds,  one  hour  and  a  half;  a 
loin  of  seven  pounds,  one  hour  and  three-quarters ;  a  neck  and  breast,  about 
the  same  time  as  a  loin. 

Be^—The  sirloin  of  fifteen  pounds,  from  three  hours  and  three-quarters  to 
four  hours ;  ribs  of  beef,  from  fifteen  to  twenty  pounds,  will  take  three  hours 
to  three  hours  and  a  half. 

FeoZ— A  fillet,  from  twelve  to  sixteen  pounds,  will  take  from  four  to  five 
hours,  at  a  good  fire;  a  loin,  upon  the  average,  will  take  three  hours;  a 
shoulder,  from  three  hours  to  three  hours  and  a  half;  a  neck,  two  hours;  a 
breast,  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  liours. 

Lamb — Hind-quarter  of  eight  pounds  will  take  from  an  hour  and  three- 
quarters  to  two  hours;  fore-quarter  of  ten  pounds,  ab(mt  two  hours;  leg  of 
five  pounds,  from  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  an  hour  and  a  half ;  shoulder  or 
breast,  with  a  quick  fire,  an  hour. 

Pork — A  leg  of  eight  pounds  will  .require  about  three  hours;  griskin,  an 
hour  and  a  half;  a  spare-rib  of  eight  or  nine  pounds  will  take  from  two  hours 
and  a  half  to  three  hours  to  roast  it  thoroughly;  a  bald  spare-rib  of  eight 

Eoun<.ls,"an  hour  and  a  quarter;  a  loin  of  five  pounds,  if  very  fat,  from  two 
ours  to  two  hours  and  a  half ;  a  sucking  pig,  of  three  weeks  old,  about  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

Poitltn/ — A  very  large  turkey  will  require  about  three  hours;  one  of  ten 
pounds,  two  hours ;  a  small  one  an  hour  and  a  half. 

A  full-grown  fowl,  an  hour  and  a  half;  a  moderate  sized  one,  an  hour  and 
a  quarter. 

A  pullet,  from  half  an  hour  to  forty  minutes- 

A  goose   full-grown,  two  hours. 

A  duck,  full  size,  from  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  one  hour  and  three 
quarters. 


410  FRAGMENTS. 

Venison — A  bnck  hannch  which  weighs  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  pounds 
will  take  about  four  hours  and  a  half  roasting;  one  from  twelve  to  eighteen 
pounds,  will  take  three  liours  and  a  quarter. 

A  Lunch  Dish. — Chop  the  lean  of  cold  roast  beef  or  steak  very  fine,  sep- 
arating it  first  from  all  the  fat;  nearly  fill  a  pudding  dish  with  cold  boiled  or 
baked  macaroni ;  in  the  center  put  choj)ped  beef,  carefully  flavored  with 
Bait,  pepper,  thyme,  and,  if  to  your  taste,  a  little  liquor  jibured  off  from 
canned  tomatoes.  Pour  sour  stock  or  gravy  over  beef  and  macaroni,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  over  which  pour  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Soykr's  Receipt  for  Cookino  Ecios. — Take  two  or  three  large  onions,  slice 
til  em  very  thin,  and  fry  till  a  nice  brown.  Have  ready  three  or  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices,  and  a  cupful  of  nice  gravy,  with  a  little  flour  of  ar- 
rowroot mixed  with  it;  add  the  eggs  to  the  onions,  then  pour  in  the  gravy, 
and  stir  in  all  till  the  gravy  has  thickened,  Serve  very  hot.  If  a  white  in- 
stead of  a  brown  dish  is  wished  for,  the  onions  must  be  stewed  in  butter,  and 
the  sauce  made  of  veal  broth  mixed  with  a  little  milk  and  flour.  Pepper 
and  salt  to  taste. 

Aspic  Jelly. — To  three  pints  of  clear  stock  (that  made  from  knuckle  of 
veal  is  good)  add  two  ounces  of  gelatine  that  has  been  softened  in  cold 
water.  Beat  up  the  whites  and  shells  of  two  eges  and  one  yolk ;  add  them 
to  the  struck,  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  tablespoon ful  of  catsup,  one  of 
vinegar,  and  a  teaspoonful  each  of  savory,  thyme,  marjoram  ana  parsley, 
and  a  smaller  quantity  of  mace,  cloves,  allspice,  white  pepper  and  salt, 
and  one  wineglass  of  wine.  Set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  till  it  boils ; 
let  it  cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  giving  it  constant  attention ;  then 
set  it  aside  to  settle;  strain  it  through  a  coarse  cloth  or  a  fine  sieve,  and 
set  it  away  to  harden.  It  should  be  perfectly  clear,  and  may  be  cut  into 
blocks  or  dice  for. garnish,  or  cut  into  thin  slices  and  alternated  with 
slices  of  ham  or  beef,  or  it  may  be  melted  and  poured  upon  chopped  chicken 
in  a  mold.  There  are  many  other  ways  in  which  it  may  be  useful  and  orna- 
mental. It  is  very  nourishing,  and  generally  very  acceptable  to  sick  per- 
sons, especially  if  given  to  them  in  small  quantities  ice-cold. 

To  Make  Kitchen  Vegetables  Tender. — When  peas,  beans,  etc.,  do  not 
boil  easily,  it  has  usually  been  imputed  to  the  coldness  of  the  season,  or 
the  rains.  This  peculiar  notion  is  erroneous.  The  difficulty  of  boiling 
them  soft  arises  from  an  excess  of  gypsum  imbibed  during  their  growUi.  To 
correct  this,  throw  a  small  quantity  of  carbonate  of  soda  (common  baking 
soda)  into  the  pot  along  with  the  vegetables. 

To  Keep  Cheese  Moist. — Many  housekeepers  complain  that  their  cheese 
becomes  dry,  and  some  use  a  kind  of  bell-glass  to  put  their  cheese  in.  A 
very  simple  expedient  will  keep  cheese  in  the  best  condition.  Take  a  linen 
cloth,  or  cheese  cloth,  dip  it  in  white  wine,  squeeze  out  excess  of  wine,  and 
wrap  up  the  cheese  in  it.  By  doing  this  the  clieese  is  not  only  kept  moist, 
but  its  flavor  is  improved. 

To  Clean  Vegetables  of  Insects. -—Make  a  strong  brine  of  one  pound  and 
a  half  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  water,  into  this  place  the  vegetables  with  the 
stalk  ends  uppermost,  for  two  or  three  hours ;  this  will  destroy  all  the  in- 
sects which  cluster  in  the  leaves,  and  they  will  fail  out  and  sink  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  water. 

To  Dress  Salt  Mackerel. — Take  mackerel  from  the  salt,  aiid  lay  them  in- 
side downward  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  for  two  or  three  days;  change  the 
water  once  or  twice,  and  scrape  tlie  fish  clean  without  breaking  it.  When 
fresh  enough,  wipe  one  dry  and  hang  it  in  a  cool  place  ;  then  fry  or  broil;  or 
lay  one  in  a  shallow  paii,  the  inside  of  the  fish  down;  cover  it  with  hot 
water,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  or  in  an  oven  for  twelve  or  fifteen 
minutes;  then  pour  oft' the  water,  tuni  the  fish,  put  bits  of  butter  in  the 
pan,  and  over  the  fish  sprinkle  pepper,  then  let  it  fry  for  five  minutes,  then- 
dish  it. 


FBAQMENTS.  41 1« 

ScBAFPLE. — ^Tt  is  composed  of  the  head-meat,  trimmings  of  the  hams  and 
shoulders,  flitch,  smaller  parts  of  the  chine,  the  heart  part  of  the  liver  and 
theskin  off  the  parts  intended  for  lard  and  sausage.  The  spleen,  kidneys  and 
cracklings  are  used  hy  some  and  rejected  by  others.  The  feet  and  ears  may 
also  be  used.  The  head  is  split  between  the  jaws,  and  after  the  tongue  is 
taken  out  it  is  split  through  the  middle  the  other  way.  Cut  off  one  or  two 
inches  of  the  snout  and  take  off  the  jaw-bone  and  nasal  cavities  as  far  as 
the  teeth  extend,  and  cut  across  at  the  eye  and  also  at  the  opening  of  the  ear. 
The  meat  may  then  be  cleaned  out  evenly.  Put  the  head  meat  into  the  boiler 
after  putting  in  water  to  cover  it,  add  the  rest  of  the  meat  in  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  The  meat  must  be  boiled  until  it  will  readily  separate  from  the 
bones;  (the  skins  should  be  boiled  separately  as  they  take  a  long  time  to 
boil);  then  taken  from  the  liquid,  the  bones  removed  and  the  meat  chopped 
fine.  Strain  the  liquid  to  get  out  the  small  bones,  and  add  to  it  enough 
water  to  make  five  parts  liquid  to  three  of  meat.  Set  the  liquid  to  boiling, 
and  as  soon  as  it  commences  stir  in  meal  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Make  a  moderately  thick  mush,  then  put  in  meat,  mix- 
ing thoroughly  and  season  to  taste.  It  takes  about  as  much  meal  as  meat, 
but  no  bucKwheat  nor  flour.  The  Indian  meal  must  be  ground  fine,  of  new 
corn,  well  dried  before  grinding.  The  meat  must  be  very  finely  chopped. 
Put  away  in  tin  pans  or  earthern  pots  in  cold  place.  Unless  kept  very 
cold,  it  will  not  kee^p  many  weeks,  but  its  popularity  generally  keeps  it  from 
spoiling.  It  is  be  fned  for  the  table,  and  eaten  hot,  of  course.  Tiiose  who 
are  unacquainted  with  this  dish,  and  many  of  our  readers  are,  should  give 
it  a  trial. 

Dried  Pumpkin. — Take  ripe  pumpkins,  cut  into  small  pieces,  stew  soft, 
mash  and  strain  through  a  colander,  as  if  for  making  pies.  Spread  this 
pulp  on  plates,  in  layers  some  half  an  inch  thick ;  dry  it  in  a  stove  oven, 
which  should  be  kept  at  so  low  a  temperature  as  not  to  scorch  it.  In  about 
a  day  it  will  become  dry  and  crisp.  The  sheets  thus  made  can  be  stowed 
away  in  a  dry  place,  and  are  always  ready  for  use,  cither  for  pies  or  stew- 
ing. On  going  to  use,  soak  portions  of  the  article  in  a  little  milk  over  nieht, 
when  it  will  return  to  as  delicious  a  pulp  as  if  made  of  a  pumpkin  when 
fresh. 

Plain  Boiled  Indian  Pudding. — Scald  one  and  a  half  pints  Indian  meal 
with  half  pint  boiling  water ;  add  four  tablespoons  Graham  flour,  one  pint 
milk  (either  sweet  or  sour),  two  tablespoons  molasses,  half  a  teaspoon  ginger, 
a  little  salt  and  one  level  teaspoon  soda  (or  a  little  more  if  sour  milk  is  used) ; 
two  tablespoons  chopped  suet  will  make  it  more  li^ht  and  tender,  but  may 
be  omitted.  Put  into  it  a  well-greased  pudding-boiler  (two-quart),  leaving 
room  to  swell,  and  boil  throe  or  four  hours  in  a  kettle  of  water.  Or  it 
may  be  tied  in  a  pudding-cloth,  leaving  room  to  swell;  or  steamed  in  a 
small  tin  pail  for  same  length  of  lime. 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie. — Cut  the  veal  and  ham  into  thin  slices,  lay  a  slice 
of  ham  (about  one-third  the  slice  of  the  veal,  season  it  with  the  season- 
ing as  given  above,  and  roll  them  up  and  place  them  in  the  dish,  add 
water  and  chopped  (not  sliced)  hard-boiled  e^frs,  place  on  the  crust  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  heat,  the  same  as  for  beefsteak  pie.  If  the  ham  is  very 
salt  use  less  salt  and  more  pepper  in  tlie  seasoning.  Parsley  is  a  great 
favorite  generally  with  veal.  Those  wishing  it  can  add  it ;  also  force  meat 
balls.  Catsup,  eUher  mushroom  or  tomato  or  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce, 
may  also  be  added.  Some  are  verj'  fond  of  savisape  meat  added  to  the 
veal  pie ;  but  all  tiiese  are  mere  matters  of  taste. — Prof.  C.  H.  King. 

Potted  Beef. — Put  the  beef  in  a  kettle,  with  some  little  slices  of  salt 
pork  at  the  bottom;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  pour 
over  two  tablespoon fu Is  of  vinegar,  and  set  the  kettle  over  the  lire,  cover- 
ing it  closely.  When  it  has  fried  a  little  at  the  bottom,  turn  the  meat, 
and  in  ten  minutes  add  a  half  pint  of  water.  Do  not  lei  the  meat  boil 
drj%  but  add  a  little  water  occasionally,  letting  it  cook  slowly,  and  keep  it 
closely  covered. 


412  FRAGMENTS.  • 

Beep  Omelet. — Three  pounds  beef  chopped  fine,  three  eggs  beaten 
together,  six  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  table>spoon  salt,  one  tea-spoon  pepper, 
one  table-spoon  melted  butter,  sage  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  make  like  a 
loaf  of  bread;  put  a  little  water  and  bits  of  butter  into  the  pan,  invert  a  pan 
over  it,  baste  occasionally,  bake  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  when  cold 
slice  very  thin. 

Chicken  or  Beep  CR0QU15TTES.--Take  cold  chicken,  or  roast  or  boiled 
beef  or  veal,  nilnce  very  tine,  moisten  with  tlie  cold  gravy  if  at  hand,  or 
moisten  well,  and  add  one  egg,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  an  onion  or  sage ; 
make  into  small  cakes,  cover  with  egg  and  oread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard 
niid  butter.  One  cup  fresh  boiled  rice  may  be  added  before  making  into 
cakes. 

Apple-Butter  Custard  Pie. — Beat  together  four  eggs,  one  tea-cup  apple> 
butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  level  table-spoon  allspice,  add  one  quart  sweet  milk 
and  pinch  of  salt;  bake  in  three  pies  with  an  under-crust; — and,  by  the  way, 
never  omit  a  pinch  of  salt  in  custard  and  lemon  pie ;  and,  in  fact,  many  kinds 
of  fruit  pies,  such  a9  green-apple,  cur7ant,  gooseberry,  and  pie-plant,  are 
improved  by  it. 

Sweetze^s  Favorites. — ^Three  eggs,  one  tea-spoon  sugar,  one  coffee-cup 
sweet  milk,  one  of  warm  water,  four  table-spoons  potato  veast,  flour  enough 
to  make  stiff  batter;  beat  yolks  and  sugar  well,  stir  in  milk,  water,  and  yeast, 
and  lastly  flour,  stir  well,  and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise ;  when  light,  beat 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  into  batter  with  a  pinch  of  salt;  bake  like 
batter  caJces.     These  are  splendid  for  breakfast  if  set  the  night  before. 

PoT.\To  Cakes. — ^Mix  thoroughly  with  cold,  ma.shed  potatoes  left  from 
dinner,  the  well-beaten  yOlk  of  an  e^^\  make  into  cakes  as  you  would  sau- 
sages, place  in  skillet  with  a  table-siK)on  hot  ham  or  beef-drippings,  cover 
tightly,  and,  in  five  minutes,  when  lower  side  is  browned,  turn,  remove  rover, 
fry"  until  the  other  side  is  a  nice  brown ;  serve  hot.  Make  up  after  dinner 
ready  for  frying  for  breakfast. 

Potatoes  a  la  Buchesse  are  now  the  most  fashionable,  and,  if  a  really  good 
potato  is  capable  of  being  improved,  perhaps  this  is  the  best  method.  Take 
cold,  mashed  potatoes,  roll  out  and  form  into  little  biscuit-shaped  cakes  (a 
little  flour  will  be  required  to  form  them,  but  do  not  mix  flour  with  the 
potato),  arrange  cakes  on  a  pie-plate,  glaze  them  over  with  beaten  egg,  and 
oake  to  a  delicate  brown. 

EscA LOPED  Turkey. — Moisten  bread-crumbs  with  a  little  milk,  butter  a  pan 
and  put  in  it  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  chopped  (not  very  fine)  cold 
turkey  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  on  un- 
til pan  is  full.  If  any  dressing  or  gravy  has  been  left  add  it.  Make  a  thick- 
ening of  one  or  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  and  quarter  cup  butter  and 
bread-crumbs ;  season  and  spread  it  over  the  top ;  cover  with  a  pan,  bake 
half  an  hour  and  then  let  it  orown. 

Breakpast  Stew. — Cut  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  cold  roast  beef  into 
small  pieces,  heat  slowly  with  half  a  pint  cold  water,  one  table-spoon  Chili- 
sauce,  a  tea-spoon  salt,  and  half  a  tea-spoon  pepper.  Rub  two  table-spoons 
flour  with  some  butter  and  a  little  of  the  not  gravy,  add  to  the  beef,  let 
cook  until  the  flour  is  done,  and  then  serve  with  bits  of  drj-  toast.  Slices 
of  onions  may  be  first  cooked  and  the  meat  added  to  them,  with  or  without 
Chili-sauce. 

Bonny  Clabber. — ^This  dish  is  in  perfection  in  the  summer,  when  milk 
sours  and  thickens  very  quickly.  It  should  be  very  cold  when  served.  A 
nice  way  is  to  pour  the 'milk  befose  it  has  thickened  into  a  glass  dish,  and 
when  thick  set  on  ice  for  an  hour  or  two,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve,  and  is 
really  a  very  pretty  addition  to  the  supper  table.  Serve  in  sauce  dishes  or 
deep  dessert  plates,  sprinkle  with  sugar  (maple  is  nice),  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  if  liked. 

Corn  Meal  Waffles. — ^To  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  add  one  (^uart 
of  sour  milk  or  butter-milk,  corn  meal  to  make  a  batter  a  little  thicker 


FRAGMENTS.  413 

than  for  pan-cakes,  one  tea-spoon  salt,  one  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm 
water,  then  the  well-beaten  whites;  dour  may  be  used  instead  of  corn  meal. 
This  is  also  a  good  rule  for  pan-cakes,  making  the  batter  thinner.  For  dress- 
ing for  waffles,  put  on  the  stove  a  half  cup  cream,  a  table-spoon  butter, 
and  two  of  su^r;  when  hot,  put  two  table-spoons  on  each  waffle  when 
placed  in  the  dish  to  serve. 

Egglrss  Squash  or  Pumpkin  Pik. — St«w  the  squash  or  pumpkin  till  very- 
dry,  and  press  through  a  colander;  to  each  pint  of  this  allow  one  table- 
spoon butter,  beat  in  while  warm  one  cup  brown  sugar  or  molasses;  a  lit- 
tle salt,  one  table-spoon  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoon  ginger,  and  one  half  tea- 
spoon soda;  a  little  allspice  may  be  added,  but  it  darkens  the  pies;  roll  a 
few  crackers  very  fine,  and  add  a  handful  to  the  batter,  or  thicken  with  two 
tabtesi>oons  flour  or  one  of  corn  starch.  As  the  thickening  property  of 
pumpkin  varies,  some  judgment  must  be  used  in  adding  milk. 

SouAPPLK. — Scrape  and  clean  well  a  pig' s-head  as  directed  in  "Pig's-head 
Cheese,"  put  on  to  boil  in  plenty  of  water,  and  cook  four  or  five  hours — 
until  the  nones  will  slip  easily  from  the  meat;  take  out,  remove  bones,  and 
chop  the  meat  fine,  skim  oif  the  grease  from  liquor  in  pot,  and  return  the 
chopped  meat  to  it;  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  pow- 
derea  sage  if  liked,  and  add  corn  meal  till  of  the  consistency  of  soft  mush ; 
cook  slowly  one  hour  or  more,  pour  in  pans,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  This 
is  nice  sliced  and  fried  for  breakfast  in  winter,  and  will  answer  in  place  of 
meat  on  many  occasions. 

Fricasseed' AND  Fried  Potatoes. — Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  into  a 
dripping-pan,  add  milk,  salt,  pepi^cr,  and  small  lump  of  butter,  allowing 
half  a  i>int  of  milk  to  a  dozen  potatoes,  place  in  oven  for  about  fifteen  min- 
utes, stir  occasionally  with  a  knife  to  keep  from  burning;  they  should 
brown  slightly  on  the  top;  or  put  in  sauce-pan  lump  of  butter,  when  melted 
add  a  level  taole-spoon  flour,  cook  a  few  minutes  and  add  a  tea-cup  new  milk 
or  cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  when  it  boils,  add  sliced  potatoes,  and 
boil  till  potatoes  are  thoroughly  neated.  To  fry,  slice  and  fry  in  butter  or 
ham  or  beef-drippings,  using  only  enough  fat  to  prevent  sticking;  sprinkle 
with  salt,  cover  with  tin  lid  so  that  they  may  both  fry  and  steam. 

Welsh  Rare-bit. — Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  remove  the  crust,  and  toast 
quickly ;  butter  it,  and  cover  with  thin  slices  of  rather  new  rich  cheese, 
spread  over  a  very  little  made  mustard,  and  place  on  a  pie-tin  or  plate  in  a 
hot  oven  till  the  cheese  is  melted,  when  cut  in  square  pieces  of  any  size 
•desired,  and  serve  at  once  on  a  hot  platter,  as  it  is  quite  spoiled  if  allowed  to 

Set  cold.  The  mustard  ma^  be  omitted  if  desired ;  and  some  think  it  more 
elicate  to  dip  the  toast  quickly,  after  buttering,  into  a  shallow  pan  of  boil- 
ing water;  have  some  che^  ready  melted  in  a  cup,  and  pour  some  over  each 
slice.  The  best  way  to  ser^  is  to  nave  little  plates  made  hot,  place  a  slice  on 
each  plate,  and  serve  one  to  each  person. 

Yankee  Dried  Beef.— Slice  very  thin,  put  in  frying-pan  with  water  to 
cover,  let  come  to  boiling  point,  pour  off,  and  add  pint  of  milk,  lump  of 
butter,  and  a  thickening  of  a  little  flour  and  milk,  stir  well,  and,  just  before 
serving,  some  add  an  egg,  stirring  it  in  quickly;  or,  chip  very  fine,  freshen, 
add  a  lump  of  butter  and  six  or  eight  eggs,  stir  well,  and  serve  at  onoe. 
Cold  boiled  or  baked  beef  may  be  sliced  and  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Or, 
after  the  freshening,  first  frizzle  it  in  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  add  the 
milk.  When  ends  or  thin  pieces  of  dried  beef  become  too  dry  and  hard, 
put  in  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  six  or  eight  hours,  and  slice  when  cold ;  or, 
soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  and  boil  three  or  four  hours.  Many  think  all 
dried  beef  is  improved  by  this  method. 

Curd  or  Cottage  Cheese.— Set  a  gallon  or  more  of  clabbered  milk  on 
the  stove  hearth  or  in  the  oven  after  cooking  a  meal,  leaving  the  door  open; 
turn  it  around  frequently,  and  cut  the  curd  m  squares  with  a  knife,  stirring 
gently  now  and  then  tillabout  as  warm  as  the  finger  will  bear,  and  the  whey 
Bhows  all  around  the  curd ;  pour  all  into  a  coarse  oag,  and  hang  to  drain  In 


414  FRAGMENTS, 

a  cool  place  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  over  night  if  made  in  the  evening. 
When  wanted,  turn  from  the  bag,  chop  rather  coarse  with  a  knife,  and  dreas 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  cream.  Some  mash  and  rub  thoroughly  with 
the  cream;  otners  dress  with  sugar,  cream,  and  a  little  nut-meg,  omitting 
the  salt  and  ()epper.  Another  wav  is  to  cliop  fine,  add  salt  to  taste,  work 
in  a  very  little  cream  or*  butter,  and  mold  into  round  balls. 

Potatoes  a  la  Lyonnaise  are  much  simpler  than  the  name  implies.  Rub  a 
lump  of  good  butter  over  the  inside  of  a  clean,  smooth,  slightlv  warmed 
skillet,  turn  in  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  up,  add  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  and  perhaps  the  least  bit  of  onion  very  tine.  Shake  from 
time  to  time  and  see  that  they  do  not  brown.  *'  Fried  wliite  "  is  the  accepted 
slang  in  fashionable  hotels  for  this  very  elegant  mystification  in  the  art  of 
potato  cooking.  If,  for  your  stomach's  sake,  you  should  prefer  to  have  your 
potatoes  actually  fried  a  savory  crisp  brown,  drop  in  smoking  hot  lard  or  nice 
drippings  (never  in  butter,  as  it  scorches  too  quickly;  warm  up  or  gauti — fry 
in  a  well-greased  frying-pan — in  butter,  but  fry,  or  rather  boil,  in  lard  or 
drippings). 

Stuffed  Beefsteak  is  as  nice  for  dinner  as  a  much  more  expensive 
roast,  and  it  can  be  prepared  from  a  rather  poor  flunk  or  round  steak ;  pound 
well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  spread  with  a  nice  dressing — may  use 
some  of  the  bread-crumbs — roll  up  and  tie  closely  with  twine  (which  always 
save  from  the  grocer's  parcels),  put  in  a  kettle  with  a  quart  boiling  water, 
boil  slowly  one  hour,  take  out  and  place  in  dripping-pan,  adding  water  in 
which  it  was  boiled,  basting  frequently  until  a  nice  brown,  and  niaking  ^avy 
of  the  drippings;  or  you  may  put  it  at  once  into  the  dripping-pan,  omit  the 
boiling  process,  skewer  a  couple  slices  salt  pork  on  top,  add  a  very  little  water, 
baste  frequently,  and,  if  it  bakes  too  rapidly,  cover  with  a  dripping-pan.  It 
is  delicious  sliced  down  cold. 

How  to  make  Nice  Gravy  is  a  problem  many  housekeei)ers  never  solve. 
Remember  that  grease  is  not  gravy,  neither  is  raw  flour.  Almost  any  kind 
of  meat-liquor  or  soup-stock,  from  which  all  fat  has  been  removed,  may  be 
made  into  nice  gravy,  by  simply  adding  a  little  seasoning  and  some  thicken- 
ing; if  browned  flour  is  used  for  the  latter,  the  gravy  will  require  but  little 
cooking,  but  when  thickened  with  raw  flour,  it  must  cook  until  thoroughly 
done,  or  the  gravy  will  ttiste  like  so  much  gummy  paste.  It  is  best  to  brown 
a  quart  of  flour  at  a  time.  Put  in  a  skillet,  set  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the 
stove,  stir  often  until  it  is  a  light-brown,  put  into  a  wide-mouthea  bottle, 
cork  and  keep  for  use.  All  gravies  should  be  well  stirred  over  a  rather  hot 
fire,  as  they  must  be  quickly  made,  and  must  boil,  not  simmer. 

Potato  Flour  is  an  addition  to  many  kinds  of  breads,  cakes,  and  pud- 
dings, making  them  more  light  and  tender.  Wiuii,  peel,  and  grate  into  an 
earthen  pan,  filled  with  pure,  soft  cold  water;  when  the  water  begins  to 
clear  by  the  settling  of  the  pulp  to  the  bottom,  pour  off  the  water  aud  add 
more,  stir  pulp  w^ith  hand,  rub  through  a  hair  sieve,  pour  on  more  water, 
let  stand  until  clear,  pour  off  and  renew  again,  repeating  several  times  until 
the  farina  is  j)erfectly  white  and  the  water  clear.  Tlie  air  darkens  it,  and  it 
must  be  kept  in  the  Water  as  much  as  possible  during  the  process.  Spread 
the  prepared  farina  before  the  fire,  covering  with  paper  to  keep  it  from  dust; 
when  dry,  pulverize  it,  sift,  bottle,  and  cork  tightly.  Potato  jelly  may  be 
made  by' pouring  IndUng  water  on  the  flour,  and  it  will  soon  change  into  a 
jelly  ;  flavor  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Stews,  if  properly  prepared,  are  very  palatable.  If  made  from  fresh  meat, 
they  should  be  immersed  in  boiling  water  at  first,  and  then  placed  where  it 
will  simmer  slowly  until  done;  season,  add  thickening,  and  flavor  with  an 
onion,  or  a  tea-sp>on  of  curry  powder;  or  prepare  a  pcxir  beefsteak  by  first 
trimming  oft'  all  the  fat  and'  cutting  in  convenient  pieces,  fry  in  butter  or 
drippings  to  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides,  tnen  add  a  little  sliced  onion,  car- 
rots, or  turnips,  seasoning,  a  tea-spoon  Chili-sauce,  and  one  pint  soup  stock, 
or  water ;  stew  gently  two  or  three  hours,  skim  off  any  grease,  and  stir  in  a 


FBAGMEyrS.  415 

little  flonr  mixed  with  milk.  To  make  a  stew  of  cold  meat,  first  make  the 
gprtLTy  of  stock,  add  a  fried  sliced  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  tea-spoon 
catsup,  let  it  boil,  and  set  aside  to  cool;  when  nearly  cold,  put  in  thmly- 
cut  slices  of  cold  meat,  and  a  few  slices  cold  potatoes,  ana  let  heat  grad- 
uailv  until  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point ;  serve  with  bread  cut  in  dice  and 
Criea. 

Meat  Pib. — Put  a  layer  of  cold  roast  beef  or  other  bits  of  meat,  chopped 
very  fine,  in  bottom  of  dish,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  a  layer 
of  powdered  crackers,  with  bits  6f  butter  and  a  little  milk,  and  thus  place 
alternate  layers  until  dish  is  full ;  wet  weir  with  gravy  or  broth,  or  a  little 
warm  water ;  spread  over  all  a  thick  layer  of  crackers  which  have  been  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  mixed  with  milk  and  a  beaten  egg  or  two;  stick  bits  of 
butter  thickly  over  it,  cover  with  a  tin  pan,  and  bake  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  remove  cover  ten  minutes  before  serving,  and  brown.  Make 
moister  if  of  veal.  Or,  another  way  of  making  the  pie  is  to  cover  any  bits  or 
bones,  rejected  in  chopping,  with  nearly  a*  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  them 
simmer  for  an  hour  or  more ;  strain  and  aad  a  chopped  onion,  three  table- 
spoons Chili-sauce,  a  level  table-spoon  of  salt,  and  the  chopped  meat;  let 
simmer  a  few  minutes,  thicken  with  a  table-spoon  of  flour  mixed  in  water, 
let  boil  once,  take  off  and  let  cool ;  put  a  layer  of  this  in  a  pudding-dish, 
then  a  layer  of  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  and  a  few  slices  from  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes^ then  the  rest  of  the  meat,  then  eggs,  etc. ;  cover  with  pie-crust  or  a 
l^king-powder  crust,  make  an  opening  in  the  center,  and  bake  forty  min- 
utes. 

To  Stuff  a  Ham,  wash  and  scrape  the  skin  till  very  white,  cut  out  a  piece 
from  thick  part  ^use  for  frying),  leaving  the  skin  on  trie  ham  as  far  as  possible, 
as  it  makes  a  casing  for  the  stuffing ;  put  in  a  boiler  and  steam  for  three  hours ; 
take  out  and  score  m  thin  slices  all  around  the  skin ;  fill  the  space  cut  out  with 
a  stuffing  made  of  bread-crumbs,  same  as  for  poultry,  only  not  <^uite  so  rich, 
seasoned  rather  highly  with  pepper  and  sage ;  wrap  around  a  strip  of  cotton 
cloth  to  keep  in  place,  and  bsuce  m  the  stove  one  and  a  half  hours,  turning  so 
as  to  brown  all  sides  nicely.  The  last  half  hour  sift  lightly  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  (Some  peel  off  the  skin  after  steaming,  stuff  and  roast 
as  Defore.)  What  remains  after  once  serving  is  delicious  sliced  down  cold. 
The  first  we  ever  ate  was  at  a  thanksgiving  dinner,  cooked  in  a  Southern 
kitchen,  by  an  old-fashioned  fire-place,  in  an  iron  bake-oven,  and  the  savory 
flavor  lingers  still  in  our  memory.  Nicely  cured  boiled  ham  is  a  never-fail- 
ing source  of  supply,  from  which  quite  a  variety  of  dishes  may  be  prepared. 

Grated  Ham  is  one  of  the  nicest  relishes  for  supper  or  lunch,  or  for  sand- 
wiches. Cut  a  good-sized  piece  from  the  thickest  portion  of  a  boiled  ham, 
trim  off  the  fat,  grate  the  lean  part,  and  put  in  the  center  of  a  platter;  slice 
some  tiny  slips  of  the  fat  and  place  around  the  edge,  together  with  some  ten- 
der hearts  of  lettuce-heads,  and  serve  for  supper  or  lunch. 

To  economize  the  scraps  left  from  boiled  ham,  chop  fine,  add  some  of  the 
fat  also  chopped,  and  put  in  a  baking-plate,  first  a  la/er  of  bread-crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  mixed  fat  and  lean,  then  another  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  on 
till  all  is  used,  putting  a  few  bits  of  fat  over  the  top;  pour  over  it  a  little 
water,  or  a  dressing  of  some  kind,  and  set  in  oven  till  a  nice  brown.  This  is 
delicious  for  breakfast,  or  for  a  "picked  up  dinner,"  after  having  made  a 
soup  from  the  bone,  well  cracked  and  simmered  for  three  hours  with  a  few 
sliced  potatoes  and  rice,  or  dried  com  and  beans  which  have  first  been  soaked 
and  parboiled.  In  boiling  hams,  always  select  an  old  ham ;  for  broiling,  one 
recently  cured.  After  boiling  and  skinning  a  ham,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar 
and  brown  in  oven. 

The  Care  of  Fat  and  Drippings  is  as  necessary  in  any  family  as  the 
care  of  last  year's  garden  seeds  or  the  "  Family  Record."  Especially  when 
much  meat  is  used,  there  is  a  constant  accumulation  of  trimmings  of  fat, 
drippings  from  meats,  etc.,  which  should  be  tried  out  once  in  two  or  three 
days  in  summer— in  winter  once  a  week  will  do.    The  fat  which  rises  after 


416  FRAGMENTS. 

boiling  beef,  pork,  and  poultn',  is  used  for  shortening  or  frying.    Cut  up  in 
small  pieces,  put  in  skillet,  cover,  try  out  slowly,  stir  occasionally,  and  skim 
well ;  add  the  cakes  of  fat  saved  from  the  top  of  meat  liquor,  slice  a  raw 
potato  and  cook  in  it  to  clarity  it  (some  add  a  pinch  of  soda),  strain  all  the 
olear  part  into  a  tin  can  or  stone  jar,  or  pour  over  drippings  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water  and  strain  through  muslin  or  a  fine  sieve,  let  cool,  take  out  the 
cake  which  forms  on  the  top,  scrape  the  refuse  from  the  bottom,  pour  again 
into  a  skillet  and  heat  until  all  the  water  is  out,  then  pour  into  a  jar,  and 
you  will  find  it  very  nice  to  use  either  alone  or  with  butter  and  lard' in  fry- 
ing potatoes,  doughauts,  etc.     The  leaf  fat  of  mutton  should  always  be  tried 
out   by  it»elf,  and  used  for  chapped  hands  and  such  purposes.     The  fat 
which  is  not  nice  enough  for  any  of  the  above  uses,  should  be  tried  out  and 
placed  in  a  jar,  kettle,  or  soft  wood  cask  of  strong  lye,  to  which  all  soap 
grea.^e  should  be  consigned.    Remember  that  the  fat  from  boiling  ham  or 
from  boiling  meats  with  vegetables  is  never  fit  for  cooking  purposes,  but 
should  be  thrown  into  the  soap  grease.     After  skinning  and  trimming  the 
boiled  ham,  the  fat  which  remains  may  be  tried  out  and  used  for  drippings, 
and  is  as  sweet  as  butter.    Observe  never  to  use  for  this  soap  grease  lean 
meat  or  raw  fat    Keep  a  stick  with  which  to  stir  occasionally,  and  it  will 
need  but  little  boiling  to  make  the  best  of  soft  soap. 

Mother  has  many  other  valuable  ideas  on  how  to  stop  the  nnmberlesB 
little  "leaks/'  which  keep  many  a  family  in  want,  while  a  little  care  and 
economy  in  these  minor  details  would  insure  a  fair  competency ;  but  she 
thinks  it  better  to  have  the  ideas  she  has  already  given  thoroughly  digested 
before  clogging  them  with  others.  She  says  a  neat  clean  home,  a  tidy  table, 
and  well  cooked  palatable  meals,  are  safeguards  against  the  evils  of  the  ale- 
house, tlie  liquor  saloon,  and  the  gambling- table.  So  that  we  may,  with  our 
frying-pans  and  soup-kettles,  wage  a  mighty  war  against  intemperance,  for 
seldom  is  a  well-fed  man  a  drunkard ;  and  thus  our  attempts  at  palatable  and 
economical  cooking  may  "kill  two  birds  with  one  stone." 

By  the  way,  she  has  just  taken  up  a  paper  from  which  she  reads  tliis  item 
by  Prot  Blot :  '*  Wasting  is  carried  on  so  far  and  so  extensively  in  American 
kitchens  that  it  will  soon  be  one  of  the  common  sciences."  "  Just  as  I  told 
you,"  says  mother,  as  she  folds  her  hands  complacently  together,  looks  down 
at  the  bright  figures  of  the  carpet,  and  repeats  In  her  slow-measured  way: 
'*  After  all,  whether  we  save  or  spend,  the  life  is  more  than  meat,  and  the 
body  more  than  raimeut" 


COOKS'  TIME-TABLE. 


417 


Apples,  soar,  hard  ^ 

Apples,  sweet  and  mellow  ^...~ 

Beans,  mod) ^.^... 

Beans  with  green  com 

Beef ^ 

Beefbteek <»• 

Beelbteek 

Beef,  salted 

Bass,  firesh 

Beets,  young 

Beets,  old...... 

Bread,*oom 

Bread,  wheat 

Butter 

Cabbage 

Cabbage  and  vin^ar 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Cake,  sponge 

Carrot,  orange , 

Cheese,  old 

Chicken............  •.... 

Codfish,  dry  and  whole 

Custard,  (onequart) 

Duck,  tame 

Duck,  wild 

Dumpling,  apple 

Eggs,  hard 

Eggs,  soft 

pgs 

Eggs , 

Fowls,  domestic,  roae^^d  or 

Gelatine .^ 

Goose,  wild 

Lamb 

Meat  and  vegetables 

Milk 

Milk 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters , 

Oysters 

I^krsnlps 

PIg*s  feet 

Pork 

Pork 

Pork,  raw  or 

Pork 

Potatoes 

Potatoes. 

Potatoes 

Rice 

Salmon,  fresh 

Sausage 

Sausage 

Soup,  vegetable ;... 

Soup,  chicken 

Soup,  oyster  or  inuttou 

Spinach 

Tapioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes 

Trout,  salmon,  fresh,  boiled  or. 

Turkey,  boiled  or 

Turnips , 

Veal 

Venison  Steak , 


Mode  of 
Preparation. 


Raw 

Raw 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Broiled 

Fried 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Baked 

Baked 

Melted 

Raw 

Raw 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Baked 

Boiled 

Raw 

Fricasseed 

Boiled 

Baked 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fried 

Raw 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Hashed 

Raw 

BoUed 

Roast 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Stewed 

BoUed 

Soused 

Roast 

Boiled 

Fried 

Broiled 

BoUed 

Baked 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fried 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fresh 

Canned 

Fried 

RofLsted 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Broiled 


Time  of  iTimeof 
Cooking  DifMt'B. 


B.M.    t 


15to90 

1  00 

45 

•  25 
15 
15 

*      a5 

20 
200 
430 

45 
100 


100 

1—2  00 

45 

100 


00 
15 
SO 
30 
00 
00 
10 
3 
5 


100 

« 

20 
20 
30 

*■ 

4i 
1- 

25 

20 

-2  00 

5 

100 

*• 

30 
25 

20 
80 
45 
45 
20 
8 
25 
20 
00 
00 


t3  30 


1—2 
1 


00 
30 
00 
SO 
30 
20 
43 
20 
20 


Ua  Mi 

2  50 

1  50 

2  30 

2  30 

3  45 
3  00 

00 
00 
15 
00 
45 
00 
8  15 
8  30 
8  30 
30 
00 
30 
30 

2  80 

3  15 
3  30 

45 
00 
45 
00 
50 
00 
3  80 
3  00 
3  30 
2  00 


4  00 
2  30 
2  80 

2  30 
80 
15 
00 
15 
00 
00 
15 

330 

3  00 
100 

5  15 

4  30 
4  15 
8  15 
880 


2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 


SO 
30 
00 
45 
00 


3  30 


00 
GO 
830 
2  30 
200 
30 


4 
3 


2  30 


30 
80 


3  30 


00 
35 


•  Minutes  lo  tho  pound.       f  Mutton  lioup.  '  "  ""^ 

Th«  time  given  is  the  general  arerage ;  the  time  will  vary  slightly  with  the  quality  of  the  article 

27 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

1  quart  sifted  flour  (well  heaped)  weighs  1  lb. 
8  coffee-cupR  Hlfted  flour  (level)  weigh  1  lb. 
4  tea-cups  sifted  flour  (level)  weigh!  lb. 
1  quart  unsifted  flour  weighs  1  lb.  1  oz. 
1  quart  sifted  Indian  meal  weighs  1  lb.  4  oz. 

1  pint  soft  bnlter  (well  parked  i  weighs  1  lb. 

2  tea-oupssoft  butter  (well  packe<l)  weigh  1  lb. 
IH  pints  powdered  sugar  weigh  1  lb. 
2  eoflbe-eups  powdered  sugar  (level)  weigh  1  lb. 
2^  tea-cups  powdered  sugar  (level)  weigh  1  lb. 

1  piutgranulated  sugar  (heaped)  weighs  14 oz. 
lyi  ooflee-cups  granulated  sugar  (level)  weigh  1  lb. 

2  tearcups  granulated  sugar  (level)  weigh  1  lb. 

1  pint  cofl^  **A"  sugar  weighs  12  oz. 
1%  coflTee-cups  coflee  "A"  sugar  level)  weigh  1  lb, 

2  lea-cups  cofl'ee  ''A'*  sugar  (well  heaped)  weigh  1  lb. 
'  pint  best  brown  sugur  weighs  13  oz. 

^  coflee-cupH  best  brown  sugar  level)  weigh  1  lb, 
2V.  tea-cups  best  brown  sugar  (level)  weigh  1  lb. 
2%  coflee-cups  Indian  meal  (level)  equal  1  qt. 
8%  tea-cups  Indian  meal  (level)  equal  1  qt. 

1  table-spoon  (well  heaped)  granulated  "cofl^  A"orbe8t  brown  sugar,  1 

2  table-spoons  (well  roundeu)  of  powdered  sugar  or  flour  weigh  1  oz. 

1  table-^poou  (well  rounded)  of  soft  butter  weighs  1  oz. 
Soft  butter  size  of  an  egg  weighs  2  oz. 

7  table-spoons  granulated  sugar  (heaping)  equal  1  tea-cup. 

6  table-spoons  sifted  flour  or  meal  (heaping)  equal  1  tea-cup. 
4  table-spoons  soft  butter  (well  heaped)  eqiial  1  tea-cap. 

8  table  spoons  sweet  chocolate  grated  weigh  1  oz. 

2  teanspoons  (heaping)  of  flour,  sugar  or  meal,  equal  1  heaping  table-spoon. 

LIQUIDS. 


1  tear-spoon  contains  about  1  duid  drachm. 

A  tea-spoonflil  (for  brevity,  tea-spoon  is  used  for  tea-spoonflil  In  the  re^pas 
of  this  book)  is  equal  in  volume  to  45  drops  of  pure  water  (distilled)  at  60  deg.  Fah. 
Teaspoons  vary  so  much  in  size  that  there  is  a  wide  margin  of  dU^renoe  la 
oontaining  capacity. 

4  tea-spoonfuls  equal  1  table-spoon  or  >^  fluid  ounce. 

16  table-spoonfuls  equal  %  pint. 

1  wine-glass  flill  (common  size)  equals  4  table-spoons  or  2  fluid  ob. 

1  tea-cupful  equals  8  fluid  oz.  or  2  gills. 

4  tea-cupfhls  equal  1  qt. 

A  common-sized  tumoler  holds  about  ^  pint. 

AVOIRDUPOIS  WEIGHT. 

16  drams  (dr.)  make  1  ounce  (oz.)  25  pounds  make  1  quarter  (qr.) 

16  ounces  make  1  pound  (lb.)  4  quarters  make  1  hundred  weight  (owtL 

2009'  weight  makes  1  ton  (T).  •-    ^     -»- 

LIQUID  MEASURE. 

4  gills  (gi.)  make  1  pint  (pt.)  |  2  pints  make  1  quart  (qt) 

4  quarts  make  1  gallon  (gal.) 

WEIGHTS  OF  ARTICLEB. 


Apples,  dried,  bushel,   25  pounds. 
Beef,  firkin.  100 

Pork,  barrel,  200 

Beans,  bushel «  60 

Butter,  firkin.  56 

tub,  84 

Peaches,  dried,  bushel,  38 
Fish,  barrel.  200 

quintal.  112 

(418) 


t< 


(< 
<i 
II 
II 
II 
II 


Flour,  barrel,  net,    196  poundL 
Honey,  gallon,  12       " 

Molasses,  hhd.,  130  to  150  gallons. 
Salt,  barrel.  S%  bushels. 
"     bushel.  Tupounds. 
Sugar,  barrel,  200  to  250  poundSi 
Soap,  barrel,  2M 

••     box,  75 

Tea,  chest.     60    to    84 


M 


WHEN  FOOD  IS  EST  SEASON. 

Apples  are  in  season  all  the  year ;  cheapest  from  August  until  spring. 

Artichokes  (Jerusalem)  are  ready  for  use  in  September. 

Asparagus  from  the  tirst  of  May  until  middle  of  June. 

Bass,  of  which  there  are  a  dozen  varieties,  at  all  times  of  the  year. 

Beans.  String,  June  to  November ;  Lima,  from  July  through  the  year. 

Beeit  is  good  at  all  seasons  of  the  year. 

Beets  from  June  through  the  year. 

Blackberries  from  July  to  September. 

Blue  Fish,  a  popular  fish  on  the  sea  coast,  from  June  to  October. 

Br.\kt,  a  choice  wild  fowl,  April  and  May,  and  September  and  October. 

Bre.am,  a  fish  sometimes  known  as  dace,  in  the  winter  months. 

Broccoli,  a  kind  of  cabbage,  from  September  to  November. 

Buckwheat  Cakes  in  cold  weather. 

Butternuts  ripen  in  September. 

Cabbage,  May  and  June,  and  lasts  through  the  winter. 

Carrots  come  from  the  South,  in  May,  and  last  until  November. 

Cauliflower  from  June  until  spring. 

Celery  from  August  to  April,  but  is  better  after  being  touched  by  frost. 

Checkerbkrry  in  winter  andjspring. 

Cheese  all  the  year  round. 

Cherries  from  the  south  in  May,  and  continue  till  August. 

Chestnuts  after  the  first  severe  frost. 

Chocolate  is  best  in  cold  weather  on  account  of  its  richness. 

Chub,  a  fresh-water  fish,  in  fall  and  winter. 

Clams  from  May  until  September. 

Conger  Kels  from  November  to  April. 

Corn,  Green,  from  June  to  September. 

Crabs  from  June  to  January,  but  are  more  wholesome  in  the  cold  montha 

Cranberry  from  September  to  Ajiril. 

Cucumbers  in  the  South,  April ;  in  Middle  States,  June  to  November. 

Currants,  green.  June  to  July ;  ripe,  July  to  August. 

Damsons,  a  small  black  plum,  July  to  December. 

Doves,  the  turtle,  one  of  the  best  game  birds,  in  August  and  September.  . 

Ducks,  Domestip,  are  best  in  June  and  July.    Wild  in  spring  and  fall. 

Eels  from  April  till  November. 

Eggs  are  always  in  season,  but  are  cheap  in  spring  and  high  in  winter. 

Elderberries  Au^i.'jt  and  September. 

Fish,  as  a  rule,  arc  in  the  best  condition  just  before  spawning, 

Geese,  wild,  from  October  to  December,  tame  at  four  month's  old. 

Gooseberries  from  June  to  September. 

Grapes  from  September  till  winter. 

Guinea  Fowl,  best  in  winter  when  they  take  the  place  of  partridges. 

Haddock, from  November  and  December,  and  June  and  July. 

Halibut  in  season  all  the  year. 

Herring  from  February  to  May. 

Herbs  for  seasoning  should  be  gathered  just  as  they  begin  to  flower. 

Horseradish  is  always  in  season, 

Lamb  in  March,  but  from  June  to  Au^st  is  best  as  well  as  cheapest. 

Lemons  arrive  fresh  from  West  Indies  in  winter. 

Lobsters  are  plentiful  in  market,  except  in  winter  months. 

Mackerel  from  May  through  the  summer. 

Mushrooms  a -e  most  ulentiFul  in  August  and  September. 

Muskmelonb  from  Julv  to  the  middle  of  September. 

Mutton  is  in  season  all  the  year,  but  is  not  so  good  in  the  fall,  the  meat 
being  drier  and  strong  flavored. 

Onions,  new,  large,  from  the  Bermudas  about  May  1st,  and  from  the  South 
in  June,  and  those  of  home  raising  in  the  Middle  States  the  middle  of  July. 

(*19) 


WHEN  FOOD  IS  EST  SEASON. 

Oranges  from  Florida  and  West  Indies  are  in  market  from  October  until 
April ;  those  from  the  Mediterranean  from  January  until  May.  The  Florida 
oranges  are  best  and  largest 

Oystebs  are  in  season  from  September  to  May ;  May,  June  and  July  beings 
the  spawning  months. 

P.\RTRiDGiS8,  Pheasants  or  Rui&ed  Grouse,  are  in  season  in  most  markets 
from  Sei)tember  to  January,  but  are  best  in  October  and  November. 

Paw-Paws  are  ripe  about  tlie  middle  of  September. 

Peas.  Green,  reacii  markets  from  Bermudas  about  May  1 ;  from  the 
South  May  15;  home  grown,  in  the  Middle  States,  about  June  15. 

Peaches  coiue  from  the  Bermudas  May  1 ;  from  the  South  July  1 ;  and  are 
plenty  in  market  from  August  to  November. 

Pears  which  are  best  for  eating  are  in  season  from  August  to  October. 

Pickerel  is  best  from  September  to  March. 

Pigeons,  wild,  are  plentiful  in  September  and  October. 

Pork  should  never  be  eaten  in  warm  weather. 

Potatobs.  new,  arrive  from  the  Bermudas  about  April;  from  the  South 
June  to  July,  and  are  plentiful  in  July  and  August. 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  are  in  season  from  August  to  December,  after  which  they 
lose  their  flavor. 

Prairie  Chickens  in  season  from  August  to  October. 

Prunes  arrive  fresh  from  December  to  May. 

Pumpkins  are  in  season  from  September  to  January. 

Quail  (often  called  Partridge  in  the  South)  from  November  and  De- 
cember. 

Quinces  are  in  season  from  October  to  December. 

Rabbits  are  in  best  condition  in  November,  but  are  in  season  from  Sep- 
tember till  January,  and  in  the  North  later,  until  the  breeding  season 
begins. 

Radishes  are  in  season  from  April  till  cold  weather. 

Rail,  an  excellent  little  game  bird,  is  best  in  September  and  October. 

Raspberries  are  in  market  from  the  middle  of  June  till  September. 
•  Reed-birds  are  best  in  September  and  October. 

Rhubarb  from  April  to  September. 

Salmon  from  March  till  September. 

Shad  appear  in  market  from  February  20  to  June. 

Smelts  are  abundant  from  October  to  April. 

Snipe  are  in  market  from  March  20  to  April  20,  and  again  in  October. 

Spinach  is  the  earliest  vegetable  used  for  greens,  and  is  continued  through 
the  season  by  providing  a  succession  of  crops. 

Squash— Summer,  from  June  to  August;  winter,  from  August  through 
the  winter. 

Strawberries  from  the  South  appear  as  early  as  April  1,  but  are  not 
plentiful  until  June,  and  the  season  is  over  in  July. 

Sturgeon  from  April  to  September. 

SrcKERS  from  October  to  A^ril. 

Tomatoes  are  not  plentiful  in  northern  markets  before  June. 

Trout,  Brook,  are  in  season  from  March  till  August;  lake  trout  from 
October  to  March ;  Mackinaw  trout  in  winter  months. 

Turkeys  are  best  in  fall  and  winter,  though  in  market  at  all  seasons. 

Turnips,  new,  are  in  market  about  June  1,  and  last  through  the  year. 

Turtles  are  in  market  from  May  to  winter. 

Veal  is  in  season  except  in  hot  weather,  when  it  keeps  badly. 

Venison  from  the  buck  is  best  from  August  to  November,  from  the  doe 
from  November  to  January. 

Watermelons  are  in  season  from  July  to  October. 

Woodcock  is  in  season  from  July  to  November,  but  is  best  in  October. 

(420) 


COMPARATIVE  VALUE  OF  FUEL. 


421 


A  cord  of  wood  is  128  cubic  feet ;  the  sticks  are  cut  four  feet  long  and  piled 
four  feet  high,  and  in  a  pile  eight  feet  long.  Wood  cut  to  stove  length, 
eighteen  to  twenty  inches,  is  sometimes  sold  as  a  cord,  when  only  eight  feet 
long,  four  feet  high,  and  as  wide  as  the  sticks  are  long,  but  it  is  not,  of  course, 
really  a  cord.  The  fair  way  to  sell  fuel,  however,  would  be  by  weight;  aiid 
"when  weights  are  equal  the  wood  containing  the  most  hydrogen  will  pro- 
duce the  most  heat.  Thus,  one  hundred  pounds  of  dry  pine  are  worth  more 
as  fuel  than  the  same  number  of  pounds  of  dry  oak.  Wood  can  never  bo 
economically  used  in  a  green  state,  as  it  then  contains  about  twenty-five  per 
cent  water,  which  must  be  evaporated,  and  all  the  heat  required  to  evaporate 
this  sap  is  wasted.  We  give  below  a  table,  in  which  shell-bark  hickory  is 
made  the  standard  of  comparison,  rated  at  100  in  value  and  1000  in  weight, 
and  the  weights  of  other  varieties  show  their  comparative  value,  which  may 
be  readily  estimated  in  dollars  and  cents.  For  instance,  if  hickory  is  worth 
$7.00  per  cord,  the  proper  value  of  white-oak  would  be  $4.86,  for  as  lOOJhick* 
ory)  is  to  $6.00,  so  is  .81  to  the  value  of  white-oak,  $4.86. 


WOODS. 


Shell-bark  Hickory, 

White  Walnut 

White  Oak 

White   Ash 

Scrub  Oak 

Red  Oak 

Black    Walnut 

White   Beech 

Yellow  Oak 

Sugar  Maple 

White  Elm 

Yellow-pine 

Sycamore 

Chestnut 

Poplar 

Pitch-pine 

White-pine 

Lombardy  Poplar 


•  •■•••«•  ••••••  ■••  jv  ••.■••••  ■•■«••••• 


Comparative 

Weight  per 

Comp. 

Weight 

Cord. 

Value. 

1000 

4469 

100 

949 

4241 

95 

855 

3821 

81 

722 

3450 

77 

747 

3339 

73 

728 

3255 

69 

681 

3044 

65 

724 

3236 

65 

653 

2916 

60 

644 

2878 

60 

580 

3592 

58 

551 

2463 

54 

535 

2391 

52 

522 

2233 

52 

563 

2516 

52 

426 

1904 

43 

418 

1868 

42 

397 

1774 

40 

The  quantity  of  combustible  matter  in  fuel,  if  weight  and  other  conditions 
are  equal,  is  indicated  by  the  amount  of  ashes  or  non-combustible  matter 
remaining.  The  heating  power  of  fuel  is  dependent  partly  on  this,  but  not 
wholly.  Fuel  is  valuable  for  various  purposes  in  proportion  to  the  flame  it 
produces.  A  blaze  is  of  great  service  when  heat  is  to  be  applied  to  a  great 
surface;  but  where  an  even  or  lasting  heat  is  required,  a  more  solid  fuel 
is  to  be  preferred. 

The  various  qualities  of  bituminous,  or  soft,  and  anthracite  coals,  as  sold  in 
different  markets,  makes  it  impossible  to  give  any  accurate  comparison  of 
values.  Measured  by  pounds,  if  anthracite  is  made  the  standard  at  250,  sea- 
soned oak  ranks  125,  or  one-half  in  value;  hickory,  137;  white  pine.  137; 
yellow  pine,  145,  coke,  285;  while  the  bituminous  coals  vary  from  188  to  248» 


HOUSEKEEPING. 


Housekeeping,  whatever  may  be  the  opinion  of  the  butt€rflie8  of  the  period, 
is  an  accomplishment  in  comparison  to  which,  in  its  bearing  on  woman's  rela- 
tion to  real  life  and  to  the  family,  all  others  are  trivial.  It  comprehends 
all  that  goes  to  make  up  a  well-ordered  home,  where  the  sweetest  relations 
of  life  rest  on  firm  foundations,  and  the  purest  sentiments  thrive.  It  is  an 
accomplishment  that  may  be  acquired  by  study  and  experiment,  but  the 
young  and  inexperienced  housekeeper  generally  reaches  success  only  through 
great  tribulation.  It  ought  to  be  absorbed  in  girlhood,  by  easy  lessons  taken 
between  algebra,  music  and  painting.  If  girls  were  taught  to  take  as  much 
genuine  pride  in  dustingalx>om  well,  hanging  a  curtain  gracefully,  or  broiling 
a  steak  to  a  nicety,  as  they  feel  when  they  have  mastered  one  of  Mozart's  or 
Beethoven's  grand  symphonies,  there  would  be  fewer  complaining  husbands 
and  unhappy  wives.  The  great  lesson  to  learn  is  that  work  well-done  is 
robbed  of  its  curse.  The  woman  who  is  satisfied  only  with  the  highest  per- 
fection in  her  work,  drops  the  drudge  and  becomes  the  artist.  There  is  no 
dignity  in  slighted  work ;  but  to  the  artist,  no  matter  how  humble  his  calling, 
belongs  the  honor  which  is  inseparable  from  all  man's  struggles  after  per- 
fection. No  mother,  who  has  the  happiness  of  her  daughter  at  heart,  will 
neglect  to  teach  her  first  the  duties  of  the  household;  and  no  daughter  who 
aspires  to  be  queen  at  home  and  in  her  circle  of  friends,  can  afford  to  remain 
ignorant  of  the  smallest  details  that  contribute  to  the  cojifort,  the  peace  and 
the  attractiveness  of  home.  There  is  no  luck  in  housekeeping,  however  it 
may  seem.  Every  thing  works  by  exact  rule,  and  even  with  thorough  knowl- 
edge, eternal  vigilance  is  the  price  of  success.  There  must  be  a  place  for 
every  thing  and  every  thing  in  its  place,  a  time  for  every  thing  and  every  thing 
in  its  time,  and  "  patience, .patience,"  must  be  written  in  glowing  capitals  all 
over  the  walls.  The  reward  is  sure.  Your  husband  may  admire  your  grace 
and  ea.se  in  society,  your  wit,  your  school-day  accomplishments  of  music  and 
pointing,  but  all  in  perfection  will  not  atone  for  an  ill-ordered  kitchen,  sour 
bread,  muddy  coffee,  tough  meats,  unpalatable  vegetables,  indigestible  pastry, 
and  tlie  whole  train  of  horrors  that  result  from  bad  housekeeping;  on  the 
other  hand,  success  wins  gratitude  and  attachment  in  the  home  circle,  and 
adds  luster  to  the  most  brilliant  intellectual  accomplishments. 

One  of  the  first  ideas  the  young  housekeeper  should  divest  herself  of  is,  that 
because  she  is  able,  or  e.xpecte  some  time  to  be  able,  to  keep  servants,  it  is 
therefore  unnecessary  to  understand  household  duties,  and  to  bear  their 
responsibility.  *'  Girls"  are  quick  to  see  and  note  the  ignorance  or  the  inca- 
pacity of  the  mistress  of  the  house,  and  few  are  slow  to  take  whatever  ad* 

(422) 


HOUSEKEEPING.  ^2?> 

vantage  it  brings  them,  but  the  capacity  of  a  mistress  at  once  establishes 
discipline.    The  model  house  should  not  be  large,  nor  too  fine  and  preten- 
tious for  daily  use.    The  mistress  of   many  a  fine  mansion   is  tiie  veriest 
household  drudge.    A  great  house,  with  its  necessary  retinue  of  servants,  is 
not  in  keeping  with  the  simplicity  of  a  republic  where  trained  servants  are 
not  known,  and  is  seldom  pleasant  for  the  family  or  attractive  to  friends. 
Furniture  should  be  selected  for  comfort  rather  than  show.    Most  modem 
chairs  put  their  occupants  to  torture,  and  tlirow  Uiem  into  attitudes  any  thing 
but  graceful.    Comfortable  chairs  should  have  broad  seats,  and  a  part  at  least, 
low  seats  for  women  and  children.    Nothing  is  more  out  of  taste  and  **  shoddy" 
tlian  to  crowd  rooms  with  furniture,  no  matter  how  ricli  or  elegant  it  may 
be.    Nor  is  it  by  any  mesns  necessary  to  have  things  in  suites;  varietj'  is  pref- 
erable, and  each  room,  especially,  should  have  an  individuality  of  its  own. 
Just  now  the  "EasUake  "  style  is  in  high  favor,  and  perhaps  there  is  danger 
of  too  strong  a  reaction  from  the  •*  modern  styles,"  most  of  which,  however, 
are  a  hap-hazard  collection  of  styles,  w^ithout  any  unity  of  idea  in  them. 
The  "  Eastlake  "  is,  in  the  main,  a  protest  against  the  falsehoods  and  shams 
of  modern  fine  furniture,  and  so  far  it  is  a  real  reform.    In  a  table,  for  exam- 
ple, we  usually  have  a  foundation  of  pine,  put  together  mostly  with  glue ; 
this  is  covered  with  a  veneer  of  mahogany,  walnut,  or  other  wood,  and  orna- 
mented with  carvings,  which  may  mean  something  or  nothing,  and  which 
are  glued  to  the  work.    In  a  few  years  the  pine  framework  warps  and  shrinks 
out  of  shape,  the  veneer  peels,  the  carving  gets  chipped,  and  the  whole  be- 
comes *' shabby  genteel."    Eastlake  and  his  followers  would  have  the  table 
honest,  and  be  throughout  what  it  appears  to  be  on  the  surface,  hence  the 
table  is  made  solid ;  and  if  a  costly  wood  can  be  afforded — well ;  if  not,  take 
a  cheaper  wood,  but  let  the  table  be  just  what  it  pretends  to  be;  if  braces  or 
bars  are  needed  for  strength,  let  them  show,  and  indicate  why  they  are  used  ; 
and  if  ornament  is  desirable,  let  it  be  worked  in  the  material,  and  not  glued 
on.     A  table  of  this  kind  will  l^xst,  and  may  serve  for  several  generations. 
Finding  that  our  ancestors  of  a  few  centuries  ago  understood  the  matter  of 
furniture  better  than  the  cabinet-makers  of  the  present,  Eastlake  and  the 
others  reproduced  many  of  the  styles  of  bygone  times,  and  with  some  dealers 
''Eastlake  "  is  used  for  antique.     But  the  matter  does  not  depend  so  much 
upon  antiquity  of  style,  as  solidity,  honesty,  and  appropriateness.     Sets  are 
made  of  plain  woods,  such  as  ash  and  walnut,  inlaid  with  procelain  tiles,  and 
ornamented  with  old-fashioned  bra.<ts  rings  and  handle*.    They  are  valued  at 
from  thirty  to  two  hundred  and  fifty  dollars.     Bedroom  sets  of  French  and 
English  walnut,  with  inlaid  w^oods,  gilt  and  bronze  ornaments,  and  varie- 
gated marbles,  are  sold  from  thirty-five  to  fifteen  hundred  dollars.     Parlor 
sets  of  rich,  carved  woods,  and  satin,  damask,  aishmere,  brocade,  and  tapestry 
coverings,  etc.,  range  in  price  from  one  hundred  to  twelve  hundred  dollars. 
Ebony  cabinets  inlaid  witli  ivory  and  richly  ornamented,  are  worth  from 
two  to  eighteen  hundred  dollars.    Marquetry  tables,   work  tables,  library 
tables,  Oriental  chairs,  lounges,  easels,  music  racks,  etc.,  of  rich  material 
and  design,  are  valued  at  from  ten  to  one  hundred  and  fifty  dollars.    Tho 


424  HOUSEKEEPINQ. 

pVincipal  woods  used  are  walnuts  oC  various  kinds,  ash,  bird's-eye  maple, 
satin  wood  and  kingwoo<l.  Kingwood  is  almost  crimson  in  color.  Book- 
cases are  of  all  prices  from  twenty  to  fourteen  hundred  dollars,  and  side- 
boards fruiii  seventy-live  to  one  thousand  dollars.  It  is  a  good  rule  in  select- 
ing furniture,  not  to  buy  any  thing  not  actually  needed,  to  buy  the  best  of 
its  kind,  and  to  pay  cash  or  not  buy.  Never  get  any  thing  because  some  one 
else  has  it,  and  do  nut  be  afraid  to  wait  for  bargains.  Wise  young  house- 
keepers buy  furniture  in  single  pieces  or  small  lots,  as  they  have  means, 
rather  than  expend  more  than  they  can  afford  in  entire  sets,  which  are  really 
less  attractive. 

Carpets  should,  as  a  rule,  be  of  small  patterns.  The  stoves — ^If  grates  or 
fire-places  are  not  used — should  be  of  the  kind  that  may  be  thrown  open  or 
closed  at  pleasure.  If  a  furnace  is  used,  great  care  must  be  taken  that  the 
rooms  are  not  kept  too  hot  in  winter,  and  that  there  is  most  thorough  venti- 
lation, as  the  health  of  the  family  depends  as  much  on  the  quality  of  the  air 
they  breathe  as  the  food  they  eat.  To  waste  heat  is  not  so  bad  as  to  waste 
health  and  rigor,  and  fuel  is  always  cheaper,  on  the  score  of  economy,  than 
doctors'  bills.  In  furnace-heated  houses — ^and  the  furnace  seems  to  be  accepted 
as  the  best  heater,  though  apparatus  for  steam  and  hot  water  seems  likely  to 
be  so  perfected  as  to  supplant  it  by  furnishing  a  milder  and  more  agreeable 
heat,  entirely  free  from  noxious  gases — there  should  always  be  grates  or  fire- 
places in  living  or  sleeping  rooms;  and  whenever  the  furnace  heat  is  turned 
on,  there  should  be  a  little  fire,  at  least  enough  to  start  the  column  of  air  in 
the  chimney  and  secure  ventilation.  It  is  a  common  mistake  to  buy  too 
small  a  furnace  or  other  heating  apparatus.  This  ought  to  be  ample  for  the 
coldest  weather,  so  that  ordinarily  it  need  not  be  kept  up  to  its  full  capacity. 
When  a  furnace  is  heated  too  hot,  the  little  particles  of  dust  afloat  in  the  air 
are  charred,  and  the  air  has  a  burnt  flavor,  as  unwholesome  as  it  is  disagree- 
able. Without  fire,  chimneys  are  apt  to  draw  down  a  current  of  cold  air. 
If  there  are  no  grates  or  fire-places,  do  not  rely  on  airing  rooms  from  the 
halls,  but  throw  open  the  windows  and  take  in  the  outside  air.  This  is 
especially  necessary  when  a  room  is  used  as  a  study,  or  for  an  invalid.  The 
air  from  the  halls,  although  cold,  is  not  pure.  House-plants  will  not  thrive 
in  furnace-heated  houses  where  gas  is  burned,  and  human  beings,  especially 
the  young  and  delicate,  need  quite  as  pure  air  as  plants.  In  a  study,  or 
other  room  much  occupied,  the  windows  may  be  dropped  during  meals,  and 
the  room  warmed  anew  before  it  is  needed  again.  There  must  also  be  plenty 
of  sunlight,  floods  of  it  in  every  room,  even  if  the  carpets  do  fade;  and  the 
housekeeper  must  he  quick  to  note  any  scent  of  decay  from  vegetables  or 
meats  in  the  cellar,  or  from  slops  or  refuse  carelessly  thrown  about  the  prem- 
ises. Many  a  case  of  fatal  diphtheria  or  typhoid  fever  may  be  traced  directly 
to  the  noxious  vapors  arising  from  decaying  matter  in  a  cellar,  the  outside  of 
which  is  fair  to  look  upon,  while  the  parlors  and  living  rooms  are  kept  with 
perfect  neatness.  Such  houses  are  whited  sepulchers,  and  the  inmates  are 
doomed  to  pay  the  penalty  of  ignorance  or  carelessness.  Every  room  must  be 
clean  and  sweet.    In  sickness,  care  in  all  these  respects  must  be  doubled.    In 


HOUSEKEEPINQ.  *  425 

damp  and  chill  aatumn  and  spring  days,  a  little  fire  is  comfortable  morning 
and  evening.  The  food  for  the  family  must  be  fresh  to  be  wholesome,  and  it 
is  economy  to  buy  the  best  as  there  is  less  waste  in  it.  No  housekeeper  ought 
to  be  satisfied  with  any  but  the  very  best  cooking,  without  which  the  most 
wholesome  food  is  unpalatable  and  distressing;  and  no  considerations  of 
economy  should  ever  induce  her  to  place  on  the  table  bread  with  the  slightest 
aour  tinge,  cake  or  pudding  in  the  least  heavy  or  solid,  or  meat  with  the 
slightest  taint  Their  use  means  disease  and  costly  doctor's  bills,  to  say  noth- 
ing of  her  own  loss  of  repute  as  an  accomplished  housekeeper.  If  children 
and  servants  do  work  improperly,  she  should  quietly  insist  on  its  being  done 
correctly,  and  in  self-defense  they  will  soon  do  it  correctly  without  supervis- 
ion. Order  and  system  mean  the  stopping  of  waste,  the  practice  of  economy 
and  additional  means  to  expend  for  the  table  and  for  the  luxuries  and  ele- 
gancies of  life — things  for  which  money  is  well  expended.  It  requires  good 
food  to  make  good  muscle  and  good  brain,  and  the  man  or  woman  who 
habitually  sits  down  to  badly  cooked  or  scanty  dinners,  fights  the  battle  of 
life  at  a  great  disadvantage. 

8WEBPU?0  AND  DUSTING. 

The  sweeping  and  dusting  of  a  room  seems  simple  enough,  but  is  best 
done  systematically.  **  Dusters,"  made  of  old  prints,  with  which  to  cover 
books,  statuettes,  and  such  articles  as  are  difficult  to  dust,  and  larger  ones 
to  cover  beds,  are  indispensable  in  sweeping  and  dusting.  "  Carpet  sweepers" 
are  only  fit  for  daily  use,  when  thorough  work  is  not  required,  a  thorough 
sweeping  once  or  twice  a  week  sufficing  even  the  tidiest  of  housekeepers. 
Before  sweeping  open  the  blinds  and  let  in  the  light,  and  open  the  windows 
if  it  is  not  storming  or  too  windy.  Look  on  the  ceiling  for  cobwebs,  and 
sprinkle  the  carpet  over  with  moistened  brun,  salt,  damp  coffee-grounds,  or 
tea-leaves.  Clean  the  corners  and  edges  with  a  sharp-pointed  stick  and  stiff 
whisk-broom.  Brush  down  with  the  feather-duster  all  picture-cords,  frames, 
and  curtains,  and  remove  all  cob-webs  with  a  broom  about  which  a  towel  has 
been  pinned,  going  through  all  rooms  before  removing  the  towel ;  then  clear 
one  corner  of  furniture  and  begin  sweeping  toward  the  center  with  a  short, 
light  stroke,  going  slowly  and  carefully  so  as  to  raise  no  dust,  and  drawing, 
not  pushing,  the  broom.  The  second  time  over,  increase  the  length  and  force 
ol  the  stroke,  and  the  third,  brush  with  long  and  vigotevS  strokes,  using 
care  as  the  dirt  at  the  center  of  the  room  is  approached.  In  this  way  it  will 
take  twenty  minutes  to  sweep  a  large  room,  but  it  will  be  clean^  and  the  car- 
pet will  wear,  bright  and  fresh,  much  longer  than  if  the  dirt  were  allowed  to 
grind  out  the  fabric.  After  the  sweeping  remove  the  ''dusters'*  carefull;% 
carrying  them  out  of  doora  to  shake,  and  rub,  not  simply  wipe,  off  the 
furniture  and  other  articles  with  a  clean,  soft,  cotton  cloth  or  an  old  silk 
handkerchief,  or,  better,  a  soft  dusting-towel  witli  fleecy  surface  which  is  sold 
expressly  for  this  purpose,  folding  the  dust  in  as  it  soils  the  cloth,  and  when 
it  IS  filled  with  dust,  shako  thoroughly  out  of  doors.  Managed  in  this  way, 
curtains,  furniture  and  cajT)eta  will  never  be  loaded  with  dust,  but  will  re* 
main  bright,  clean  and  fresh  irom  one  year's  house-cleaumg  to  another's.    IC 


426  SO  USEKEEPISG, 

any  spot  of  dust  is  too  firmly  fixed,  wash  in  luke-warm  soap-suds,  and  izxi' 
mediately  rub  dry  with  chamois-skin.     If  there  is  open-work  carving,  draw 
the  cloth  through,  or  dust  with  a  paint-brush;  and  it  will  be  found  more  con- 
venient to  blow  out  some  of  the  places  which  are  difficult  to  reach,  for  which 
purjx>se  a  small  pair  of  bellows  may  be  used.    To  clean  and  dust  a  piano, 
use  half  a  yard  best  conton-flaunel  with  a  nap  free  from  all  specks  and  grit, 
brushing  lightly  over  to  remove  the  dust;  if  there  are  finger-marks  or  spot8» 
rub  up  and  down  over  them,  always  keeping  the  nap  next  to  the  instrument. 
i  >ust  under  the  wires  may  be  blown  out  with  a  pair  of  bellows.    Keep  the 
]iiano  closed  at  night  and  in  damp  weather ;  open  on  bright  days,  and  if  pos- 
sible let  the  sun  siiine  directly  upon  the  keys,  as  the  light  will  keep  them, 
from  turning  yellow.    Tune  every  spring  and  fall.    As  a  last  finishing  touch 
to  the  rearranging  of  the  parlor,  leave  late  papers,  magazines,  a  volume  of 
poetry,  or  a  stereoaoope  and  views,  where  they  will  be  readily  picked  up  bj 
callers. 

THE  8ITTINO-ROOM. 

The  sitting-room  should  be  the  pleasantest,  because  most  used,  of  all  in  tiie 
house.    Do  not  put  down  a  Brussels  carpet  here,  because  it  is  too  hard  to 
sweep  and  holds  too  much  dust.    To  prevent  moths  under  the  carpets,  grind 
black  pepper  coarsely,  mix  with  camphor-gum,  and  strew  thickly  about  the 
edges  and  wherever  they  are  to  be  found.    To  clean  the  oil-cloth,  use  warm 
water  without  soap,  or,  what  is  much  better,  milk  and  water.    By  keeping 
mats  at  the  doors  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  sweep  the  sitting-room  thoi^ 
oughly  once  a  week,  but  occasionally,  when  very  dusty,  it  may  be  cleaned  by 
setting  a  pail  of  cold  water  by  the  door,  wet  the  broom  in  it,  knock  ofiT  the 
drops,  sweep  a  yard  or  so,  then  wash  the  broom  as  before,  and  sweep  again^ 
being  careful  to  shake  all  the  drops  off  the  broom,  and  not  to  sweep  far  at  a 
time.    If  done  with  care  the  carpet  will  be  very  nicely  cleaned,  and  the 
quantity  of  dirt  in  the  water  will  be  surprising.    The  water  must  be  changed 
several  times.    Snow  sprinkled  on  and  swept  off  before  it  has  had  time  to 
melt  (be  careful  to  have  rooms  cool),  is  also  nice  for  renovating  a  soiled  carpet 
A  scrap  bag  hung  on  the  end  of  the  sewing-machine,  for  storing  all  bits  of 
cloth  and  ravelings,  and  ends  of  thread,  will  save  much  sweeping.     In  sum* 
mer,  wire  doors  and  mosquito-nettings  in  the  windows  will  keep  flies  out,  and 
at  the  same  time  admit  the  air.     Washing  windows  and  wiping  off  doors  once  a 
week  after  sweeping,  keeps  all  tidy.    To  remove  finger-marks,  which  are  con- 
.stantly  appearing  on  doors  about  the  nobs,  use  a  damp  cloth  as  soon  as  they 
are  observed. 

THE  BED-ROOM. 

The  family  bed-room  should  be  on  the  first  floor  if  possible,  if  the  house 
is  properly  built  and  there  is  no  dampness.  Matting  is  better  for  the  floor 
than  carpet,  because  freer  from  dust,  and  this  is  the  room  used  in  case  of 
sickness.  If  made  properly  it  will  wear  for  several  years.  Canton  mattings 
are  made  on  boats  in  pieces  about  two  yards  long,  and  afterward  joined  on 
shore  into  pieces  of  fifty  yards.  It  is  easy  to  see  where  these  short  piecea 
jure  joined ;  after  cutting  into  lengths,  first  sew  these  places  across  and  across 


HOXJSEKEEPINQ.  427 

on  the  wrong  side,  then  sew  the  breadths  together  and  tack  down  like  a 
carpet.     Matting  should  never  be  washed  with  any  thing  except  moderately- 
swarmed  salt  and  water,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  of  salt  to  a  half  pail  of 
aoft  water.    Dry  quickly  with  a  soft  cloth.     A  bed-room  matting  should  be 
^washed  twice  during  the  season;  a  room  much  used,  oftcner.    In  this  room 
there  should  be  a  medicine  closet,  high  above  the  reach  of  children,  where 
axe  kept  camphor,  hot  drops,  mustard,  strips  of  old  linen,  etc^-for  sudden 
sickness  or  accident.    There  should  also  be  a  large  closet,  a  part  of  which  is 
especially  set  apart  for  children's  use,  with  low  hooks  where  they  may  hang 
their  clothes,  a  box  for  stockings,  a  bag  for  shoes,  and  other  conveniences, 
which  will  help  to  teach  them  system  and  order.    The  bedding  should  be 
the  best  that  can  be  afforded.    The  inner  husks  of  corn  make  a  good  under- 
l)ed.    Oat  straw  is  also  excellent.    Hair  mattresses  are  best  and,  in  the  end, 
most  economical.    Mattresses  of  Spanish  moss  are  cheaper  than  hair,  but 
£Oon  mat  down.    Those  made  of  coarse  wool .  are  objectionable  at  first  on 
account  of  the  odor,  but  are  serviceable  and  less  costly  than  hair.    When 
the  woven-wire  bed  is  used,  a  light  mattress  is  all  that  is  needed ;  and  this 
<K)mbination  makes  the  healthiest  and  best  bed,  because  it  affords  the  most 
complete  exposure  of  tlie  bedding  to  air.    The  best  covering  is  soft  woolen 
blankets.    Comforters  made  of  cotton  should  be  used  with  great  caution,  as 
they  need  to  be  frequently  exposed  to  sun  and  air.    The  best  comforter  is 
made  of  delaines,  which  may  be  partly  worn,  with  wool  Instead  of  cotton 
quilted  in.     Beds  are  almost  always  made  up  too  early.    The  thrifty  house- 
keeper likes  to  have  rooms  put  to  rights  in  the  morning,  but  it  brings  up  the 
old  adage  of  "  the  white  glove  "  which  "  hides  a  dirty  hand."    The  bed  should 
lie  open  for  several  hours  every  morning,  and  at  least  once  a  week  all  the 
bedding  should  be  thoroughly  aired.    Air  pillows  in  wind,  but  not  in  sun. 

THE  GUEST-GHAMBEB. 

The  bed  of  the  guest-chamber,  as  well  as  in  all  sleeping-rooms,  should 
stand  so  that  when  one  opens  the  eyes  in  the  morning  the  light  from  the 
window  will  not  be  directly  upon  them,  as  it  is  trying  to  weak  eyes,  and 
unpleasant  to  strong  ones.  Keep  the  bureau  where  the  sun's  rays  will  never 
strike  the  mirror,  and  where  it  will  not  be  heated  by  the  stove,  as  either  will 
granulate  the  amalgam.  Chambers  should  always  be  provided  with  tran- 
soms over  the  doors,  and  windows  arranged  so  as  to  lower  easily  from  the 
top.  A  light  feather-bed,  covered  with  a  case  like  a  pillow,  may  be  either 
used  over  the  mattress,  or  a  comfort  may  be  used  over  it,  and  the  feather- 
beds  under  it.  Tacked  on  the  inside  of  the  washstand-doors,  two  crotcheted 
pockets  are  nice  for  bathing  sponges,  and  there  should  be  plenty  of  towels, 
•especially  of  those  coarse,  rough  ones  which  make  a  morning  bath  such  a 
luxury.  A  broad  oil-cloth  in  front  of  the  washstand  is  also  a  protection  to 
the  carpet  in  bathing,  and  is  needed  when  there  is  no  bath-room  up  stairs. 

HOUSE-CLE  A  NINO. 

When  mother  earth  summons  the  stirring  winds  to  help  clear  away  the 
dead  leaves  and  winter  litter  for  the  coming  grass  and  flowers,  every  house* 


428  HOVSEKEEPING, 

keeper  has  a  feeling  of  sympatliy,  ancT  begins  to  talk  of  house-cleaning.  The 
first  bright  sunshine  of  spring  reveals  unsuspected  dust  and  cobwebs,  and  u> 
her  imagination  even  the  scrubbing-brunlies  and  brooms  seem  anxious  to 
))egin  the  campaign.  In  northern  latitudes  it  is  best,  however,  not  to  begin 
too  soon.  Do  not  trust  entirely  to  appearances,  for  spring  is  almost  certain 
to  break  her  promises  of  pleasant  weather,  and  give  us  a  good  many  da]r» 
when  it  will  be  any  thing  but  pleasant  to  sit  shivering  in  a  fireless  room, 
while  the  children  become  unmanageable  and  husband  growls.  So  for  the 
Kake  of  health,  peace,  and  comfort^  do  uot  remove  the  stoves  before  the  mid- 
dle of  May. 

Devote  a  week,  at  least,  to  preparations.  See  that  all  needed  repairs  are 
made  about  the  house,  and  have  all  necessary  tools  on  hand  and  in  good 
order.  Provide  lime  for  whitewashing,  carpet-tacks,  good  soap,  sawdust, 
carbolic  acid,  copperas,  and  spirits  of  ammonia.  Have  closets,  bureau  draw- 
ers, etc.,  all  thoroughly  renovated.  Reorganize  sewing  table,  arrange  bags 
for  the  odds  and  ends  that  have  accumulated  during  the  winter,  having 
different  ones  for  each  article,  and  marking  the  outside  in  some  way ;  for 
instance,  for  the  button-bag,  sew  one  on  the  outside,  and  so  on.  Put 
pieces  of  ribbon,  velvet,  lace,  flowers,  etc.,  in  a  box,  and  have  it  in  readiness 
for  the  spring  **  fixing  up."  While  this  renovating  is  being  done,  have  *Hfae 
boys"  cleaning  the  yard  of  the  winter  rubbish  and  debris,  as  this  is  far  more 
important  in  a  sanitary  point  of  view  than  inside  house-cleaning.  When  you 
begin,  do  not  upset  all  the  house  at  once,  driving  your  husband  to  distrac- 
-uon,  and  the  children  to  the  neighbors.  By  cleaning  one  or  two  rooms  at  a 
time,  and  using  a  little  womanly  tact,  the  whole  house  may  be  renovated 
with  little  inconvenience.  • 

If  you  are  a  *'  lone  woman"  you  will  need  the  help  of  one  stout  girl  at  the 
least,  unless  you  are  stouter  than  the  average  American  woman,  or  your 
house  is  very  small.  Hire  her  at  least  the  week  before,  so  that  she  can  get 
accustomed  to  the  house  and  your  way  of  doing  work.  Be  sure  you  wash  and 
iron  every  thing  you  can  find  that  is  soiled.  Then,  on  Saturday,  do  an  extra 
large  baking,  so  you  will  have  sufficient  bread,  cakes,  etc.,  to  do  you  the  most 
of  the  next  week.  (Make  Sunday  truly  a  day  9f  real.)  Then,  on  Monday,  be 
up  early ;  after  breakfast  leave  the  girl  to  wa.sh  the  dishes,  sweep,  and  put 
things  in  order  up  stairs,  and  you  take  a  man  and  go  to  the  cellar ;  first  have 
every  thing  taken  out  of  the  cellar  that«does  not  actually  belong  there.  The 
reai$on  for  cleaning  the  ceWsiT  first  is,  that  it  is  generally  left  to  the  last  when 
uli  are  tired  and  nearly  worn  out,  and  is  apt  to  get  what  is  called  a  "  lick  and 
a  promise."  The  cellar  should  be  one  of  the  most  particular  places  about  the 
house;  therefore,  do  it  first  while  fresh  and  strong.  After  all  the  surplus 
things  are  taken  out,  move  the  rest  to  one  end,  then  give  the  end  a  good 
sweeping  overhead,  down  the  sides  and  under  foot  Every  particle  of  vege- 
table remnants  should  be  removed,  and  the  spot  which  may  have  been  moist- 
ened by  their  presence  thoroughly  swept,  and,  if  necessary,  it  should  be 
scrubbed  or  sprinkled  over  with  copperas  water  to  sweeten  it  and  to  prevent 
malarial  exhalations.     Boxes,  barrels,  etc.,  should  be  removed   into  fresh 


HOUSEKEEPING.  429 

localities  in  the  cellar,  so  that  the  places  which  have  gathered  dampness 
beneath  them  may  become  dry.  All  the  gatherings  of  earth  from  stored 
vegetables,  and  all  the  bits  nnd  shreds  of  things  that  grow,  must  be  cleared 
away,  or  they  will  become  dangerous  enemies  when  exhalations  that  always 
pse  from  such  things  upon  heated  days  sliall  find  their  way  up  into  sleeping 
apartments  to  jwison  the  family  with  malarial  gases.  (The  cellar  should 
always  be  aired  as  early  as  possible  after  the  intense  cold  is  gone,  and  all 
summer  long  too  much  fresh  air  can  not  reach  its  dim  recesses.) 

Now  wash  the  windows,  and  then  whitewash  every  nook  and  corner  witli 
common  whitewash  made  yellow  with  copperas.  Don't  be  saving,  and  nil 
vermin  will  bid  yot/r  cellar  a  long  "good-bye."  Now  move  the  things  back 
to  that  end  and  treat  the  other  end  the  same  way ;  when  all  is  done,  dust  or 
wasli  out  all  boxes,  barrels,  etc.,  and  return  to  their  places,  which  should  be 
arranged  as  handily  as  possible.  Carry  out  all  trash,  wash  down  the  steps, 
and  you  are  ready  to  leave  the  door  and  windows  open  and  go  to  the  garret 
Open  the  windows,  gather  up  all  papers  and  place  in  a  box ;  next,  if  rags  are 
lying  around,  pick  them  up  and  sort  them,  putting  in  sacks  (paper  sacks  are 
best  for  woolen ;  if  not  torn,  will  keep  out  moths),  tie  each  sack  with  a  strip 
like  the  rags  it  contains,  clean  up  all  other  trash  and  take  down  to  bum,  if 
of  no  other  account.  Now  sweep  good  overhead,  hang  up  sacks  and  other 
articles,  sweep  floor,  moving  all  boxes,  trunks,  and  bundles,  then  wash  floor 
up  lightly,  just  to  remove  the  dust  If  you  have  seen  any  signs  of  moths 
they  must  be  attended'to,  as  they  will  be  in  the  cracks  of  the  floor;  it  is  no 
use  to  try  to  get  rid  of  them  down  stairs  while  the  garret  is  kept  for  a  breed- 
ing house.  Benzine  is  sure  death  to  moths,  but  do  not  use  it  if  there  is  fire 
In  the  house  near, /or  it  is  very  dangerous.  If  no  fire,  sprinkle  the  floor  freely 
with  it.  The  odor  will  soon  escape  at  the  open  windows.  Or  take  common 
lamp-oil  and  wash  the  floor  all  over;  it  "smells  loud,"  but  will  all  be  gone 
in  about  two  days  and  so  will  the  moths.  Now  wash  down  the  steps  (other 
wood-work  and  windows  should  have  been  washed  before  the  floor  was),  and 
you  are  done.  The  time  taken  will  be  in  accordance  with  the  size  of  the 
rooms  and  number  of  things  to  handle.  Now  for  the  bed-rooms.  If  there  is 
a  hall,  move  all  the  furniture  out  in  it  from  the  rooms,  and  put  the  bed  out 
to  sun.  (Never  clean  house  except  in  sunny  weather:  if  cloudy  in  the  morn- 
ing, try  to  put  it  off  till  clear  weather. ) 

Take  down  all  pictures,  ornaments,  etc. ;  clean  them  and  put  them  away 
in  the  closets.  Clothes,  carpeting,  and  "trumpery"  stowed  away,  must  h' 
thoroughly  dusted  and  aired  in  sunshine  and  wind.  Take  up  carf)et,  fold  it 
up  by  lifting  one  side,  carrying  it  over  to  the  other,  and  laying  it  down  care- 
fully, thus  preventing  straw  and  dust  getting  on  the  upper  side.  Carry  it 
out  and  lay  it  on  the  grass  or  hang  it  on  a  clothes-line  and  beat  it  on  the 
wrong  side  with  canes — taking  care  that  the  canes  have  no  sharp  points. 
Then  spread,  the  carpet  out  and  sweep  well  on  the  ripht  side.  There  is  more 
art  in  sweeping  a  carpet  than  a  novice  is  apt  to  suppose.  An  old  broom 
should  never  be  used,  and  a  new  one  should  be  kept  especially  for  the  car- 
pets.   With  Brussels  and  velvet  carpeting  there  are  two  ways  to  the  pile,  just 


430  ^0  USE-CLEAmNG. 


in  velvet,  and  they  shonld  always  be  fiwept  with  the  pile.  If  a  carpet  \m 
swept  against  the  grain,  it  soon  looks  rough  and  scratched  up.  Wash  out  all 
grease  spots  with  a  little  gall  soap  and  clean  water,  after  the  dust  is  entirely 
beaten  out.  Take  one  or  two  pails  of  sawdust,  wet  thoroughly  and  scatter 
well  over  the  floor ;  a  very  little  dust  will  arise  when  you  sweep  it  off,  and  it 
w^ill  not  be  necessary  to  clean  the  floor  before  washing  wood- work  and  win-* 
dows.    If  you  can  not  get  sawdUst,  use  moist  earth  instead. 

Wash  and  polish  the  windows,  and  if  the  walls  are  hard-finish,  they  may 
be  washed  off  lightly  with  soap-suds,  and  wiped  dry.  Wash  wood- work  and 
doors  with  hot  soap-suds,  and  rinse  with  strong,  hot  brine,  or  hot  water  with 
a  strong  mixture  of  cayenne  pepper  in  it,  to  drive  out  mice,  rats,  and  other 
vermin.  Now  take  some  clean  old  calico  and  put  around  a  new  broom  and 
rub  down  every  part  of  the  paper;  if  it  gets  dirty,  get  a  clean  one,  and  wash 
that  ready  for  the  next  room.  If  well  rubbed,  will  make  the  paper  look 
clean  and  bright.  If  new  paper  is  needed  or  whitewash  overhead,  it  is  better 
to  hire  a  man  who  makes  that  his  daily  work.  The  great  secret  of  good  floor- 
washing  is  never  to  do  the  whole  room  with  the  same  water;  change  it  two 
or  three  times  in  a  small  room,  and  more  frequently  in  a  large  room.  After 
washing,  wipe  with  a  flannel,  wringing  it  frequently.  In  washing  wood- 
work, do  not  slop  water  enough  about  to  run  a  mill,  for  it  can  be  done  just 
as  well  without  making  any  slop.  Do  not  use  soap  if  the  paint  is  good ;  with 
rain-water,  a  soft  rag,  and  a  brush  if  there  are  any  fancy  moldings,  give  it 
time  to  aoakj  and  you  will  And  all  dirt  comes  off,  leaving  the  paint  looking 
like  new.  Glass  should  be  washed,  wiped  nearly  dry,  and  finished  with  tissue 
paper.  (Always  save  tissue  paper  for  that  purpose.)  In  washing  the  floor, 
do  not  forget  the  closets.  If  moths  are  in  them,  use  benzine  on  the  floor; 
also  sprinkle  the  room  floor  with  benzine,  remembering  that  there  must  be 
no  fire.  When  floor  is  dry,  blow  cayenne  pepper  into  every  crack  and 
crevice,  using  a  small  pair  of  bellows  for  the  purpose. 

Now  we  are  ready  to  go  to  the  next  room  the  same  way.  Then  return  to 
number  one  and  put  the  carpet  down.  A  carpet  wears  better  if  put  down 
well,  and  it  is  better  to  have  it  done  by  experienced  persons  when  the  expense 
can  be  afforded  and  such  help  can  be  had.  Moth-proof  carpet  lining  is  best, 
but  several  thicknesses  of  newspaper  come  next  as  a  carpet  preserver.  The 
printer's  ink  is  an  excellent  moth  preventive,  and  the  newspapers  keep  the 
carpet  from  rubbing  on  the  boards.  The  good  old-fashioned  way  of  putting 
under  good  clean  rye  or  oat  straw  is  again  in  favor,  for  the  reason  that  dust, 
so  destructive  to  them,  will  pass  through  both  carpet  and  straw  to  the  floor. 
Begin  at  one  corner,  and  nail  down  one  of  the  sides  at  the  cut  ends  of  the 
bread tlis,  continuing  round  the  selvage  side,  and  stretching  it  evenly  and 
firmly  without  straining  the  fabric.  When  two  sides  are  nailed,  take  next 
the  other  selvage  side.  The  last  side  will  require  the  most  stretching  in  order 
to  get  rid  of  puckers. 

For  stair  carpets,  make  a  pad  of  coarse  cotton  clotli,  nearly  as  wide  as  the 
carpet,  and  the  full  length  of  the  stairs;  fill  with  two  or  three  layers  of 
cotton-batting,  sewed  across  to  stay  it  about  nine  inches  between  seams.    Thia 


HO  USE'CLEANINQ.  ^^  j 

Is  best  because  not  displaced  so  easily  as  paper.  Have  half  a  yard  mora 
<»rpeting  than  is  needed  in  order  to  turn  the  carpet  upside  down,  and 
change  the  positions  of  the  places  where  the  edge  of  the  steps  make  a 
mark.  When  the  carpet  is  new,  leave  it  uncovered,  and  put  down  stair 
cloth  after  it  begins  to  show  wear.  Linen  over-carpet  in  the  summer  is 
both  cool  and  pleasant;  besides,  it  helps  to  keep  away  moths.  After  being 
swept  and  laid  down  on  the  tioor,  the  carpet  should  be  wiped.  Have  two 
pails,  one  of  clean  soaj^suds,  the  other  with  lukewarm  water,  a  clean  flannel 
doth,  and  two  clean,  coarse  towels.  Take  the  carpet  by  breadths,  wring  ili-; 
flannel  out  of  the  lukewarm  water  and  hold  it  so  that  you  can  turn  and  ii>o 
it  up  and  down  three  or  four  times  on  the  same  place.  Rub  both  with  and 
against  the  grain  as  hard  as  if  you  were  scrubbing  the  floor,  then  throw 
the  tianuel  into  soap-suds,  and  rub  the  carpet  dry  with  one  of  the  dry 
towels.  If  you  leave  the  carpet  wet,  the  dust  will  stick  to  it  and  it  will 
smell  sour  and  musty.  Wash  the  riannel  clean  in  the  8oai>-sud8,  wring  it 
out  of  the  warm  water  and  proceed  as  before.  If  the  carpet  is  very  dirty 
or  has  much  green  in  it,  use  fresh  ox-gall  in  the  lukewarm  water  in  the 
proportion  of  a  qtiart  of  gall  to  three  quarts  of  water,  and  rub  the  carpet 
dry  as  already  directed.  This  rubbing  a  carpet  raises  the  pile  and  freshens 
the  colors.  When  the  carpet  is  nicely  down  and  swept  the  room  is  ready 
for  Its  customary  furniture,  unless  the  more  thorough  renovation  of  kalso* 
mining  and  painting  is  to  follow  the  cleaning.  Before  replacing,  every 
article  sfliould  be  thoroughly  cleaned,  every  button  and  tuft  of  the  uphol- 
stered goods  receiving  its  share  of  attention  from  the  furniture-brush. 
Sofas  and  chairs  should  be  turned  down  and  whipped  then  carefully 
brushed,  and  all  dust  wiped  off  with  a  clean  cloth  slightly  damped.  Clean 
the  pictures  and  hang  them  back.  If  photo  or.  engraving,  and  dust  under 
the  glass,  take  them  out  and  rub  off  with  a  clean  cloth.  Clean  the  glass  by 
washing  in  weak  annnonia  water  and  wiping  dry.  If  gilt  frames,  wash  with 
a  little  flour  of  sulphur  and  rain-water;  if  rosewood  or  other  dark  wood 
and  varnished,  rub  with  furniture  polish  made  as  follo'.v.s:  Alcohol,  eight 
ounces,  linseed  oil  (raw)  eight  ounces,  balsiim  fir,  one-half  ounce,  acetio 
ether,  one-half  ounce.  Dissolve  the  fir  in  the  alcohol,  then  add  the  others 
and  apply  with  a  flannel  cloth,  and  rub  until  dry.  If  oiled  (not  var- 
nished), rub  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  lamp  (kerosene)  oil  and  they  will 
look  like  new.  Go  over  all  the  furniture  with  the  above  polish  or  oil,  accord- 
ing as  they  are  oiled  or  varnished.  If  ever  troubled  with  bed  bugs,  go  over 
every  part  good  with  lamp-oil.  Clean  all  the  other  rooms  the  same  way, 
leaving  the  hall  until  the  last.  Wash  the  oil-cloth  with  water  in  which 
some  borax  is  dissolved,  and  wipe  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  sweet  milk. 
Follow  the  above  directions  for  the  rooms  down  stairs;  do  not  have  more 
than  two  rooms  torn  up  at  once.  Clean  out  all  moths  as  you  go,  for  they 
will  soon  ruin  carpets,  chairs,  sofas,  etc.,  if  not  killed.  Polish  the  furniture 
as  above,  and  do  not  raise  any  dust  where  it  is  for  a  few  days.  Ink  stains  can 
be  taken  out  with  oxalic  acid.  Wash  in  cold  water,  then  in  a  solution  of 
chloride  of  lime,  than  in  water  again:   if  white  goods,  warm  them  up  in 


432  HOUSE-CLEANiyQ. 

salted  milk,  let  them  lie  some  time,  and  then  wash  in  water.  In  cleaniiig 
paint,  use  water  in  which  ammonia  has  been  added,  till  it  feels  slippery,  or 
use  fine  whiting— to  be  had  at  the  paint  or  drug-stores.  Take  a  dannel 
dipped  in  warm  water,  squeezed  nearly  dry ;  dip  this  in  the  whiting,  and 
rub  the  paint  with  it;  then  wash  off  with  warm  water.  For  windows,  use 
either  of  the  above,  or  Indexical  soap.  For  the  natural  wood,  or  grained 
work,  use  clear  water  and  wipe  off  quickly,  or  cold  tea. 

Paint  can  be  taken  off  where  not  wanted,  with  turpentine.  Apply  with 
a  sponge,  after  a  little  time  it  will  rub  otf ;  if  cloth,  rub  between  the  hands 
and  it  will  crumble  off.  White  spots  can  be  taken  off  varnished  furniture 
by  rubbing  with,  a  rag  wet  with  spirits  of  camphor. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  ammonia,  especially  the  stronger  kinds,  is 
dangerous,  a  few  drops  being  enough  to  injure  a  person.  When  used  for 
cleansing  purposes  is  should  be  handled  with  great  care,  that  the  gas 
which  is  given  off  freely  in  a  warm  room,  be  not  breathed  in  large  quan- 
tites,  and  do  injury  to  the  delicate  lining  of  the  nose  and  mouth.  Benzine 
is  a  liquid,  in  the  handling  of  which  much  caution  should  be  exercised.  It 
is  very  volatile,  and  its  vapor,  as  well  as  the  liquid  itself,  inflammable.  When 
employed  for  removing  grease,  or  other  stains,  from  clothing,  gloves,  etc., 
it  should  never  be  used  at  night,  nor  at  any  other  time  near  the  fire. 
Alcohol  must  also  be  used  with  great  care,  especially  at  night 

When  the  kitchen  is  cleaned,  all  the  bake-pans,  sauce-pans,  tin-kettles,  etc., 
should  be  plunged  into  a  boiler  filled  with  strong  soda  water;  or,  add  to  clear 
hot  water  some  of  the  following  fluid,  which  you  have  already  prepared,  as 
follows :  One  pound  of  sal-soda,  one-half  pound  stone  lime,  five  quarts  soft 
water ;  boil  a  short  time  in  copper  or  brass  kettle,  stirring  occasionally  ;  let 
settle,  then  pour  off  the  clear  fluid  into  a  stone  jug,  and  cork  for  use.  After 
this,  they  are  really  purified,  oven  if  they  are  not  scoured  with  sand,  sapolio, 
or  whatever  burnishing  material  happens  to  be  a  favorite  with  the  housewife. 
This  process  of  cleaning  the  pots  and  pans  is  often  performed  by  the  tidy 
housewife,  but  it  is  especially  appropriate  at  the  time  when  the  whole  house 
is  being  purified  of  its  half  year's  accumulation  of  soiling.  A  kitchen 
should  have  a  painted  wall  that  can  be  washed  with  a  scrub-brush  and 
water,  or  it  should  be  whitewashed  with  lime.  To  clean  the  kitchen,  kettle- 
closets  and  pantry,  is  usually  the  greatest  dread  of  the  spring  campaign,  but 
it  need  not  be  if  the  formalities  of  boiling  the  tins  is  going  on  while  the  walls 
and  shelves  are  l>eing  scrubbed.  Papers  should  be  cut  and  fitted  to  the  clean 
fclielves.  Try  to  have  wire  screens  at  all  outside  doors  and  all  windows,  and 
the  one  leading  from  the  kitclien  to  tlie  dining  room,  also  the  lower  half  of 
all  windows.  Keep  plenty  of  husk  mats  and  foot-scrapers  at  the  doors,  and 
learn  to  stop  and  use  them.  Have  a  i>lace  for  every  thing  and  always  put  it 
there ;  it  will  save  work.  Do  not  work  so  hard  as  to  make  youself  sick ; 
better  be  a  little  dirty  than  have  a  spell  of  sickness.  A  kitchen  and  pantry 
need  cleaning  several  times  in  a  year,  being  used  the  most  and  should  be 
kept  the  cleanest. 

Sinks,  drains,  and  all  places  that  become   sour   or  impure,  should  bl 


HOUSE-CLEANINO.  433 

cleansed  with  carbolic  acid  and  water.  This,  or  some  other  good  disinfectant, 
%hould  be  kept  in  every  house,  and  used  frequently  in  warm  weather.  An- 
other'good  disinfectant  is  copperas;  ten  cents*  wortli,  dissolved  in  water,  will 
deodorize  your  sink  and  other  bad  smelling  places  about  the  buildings. 
Probably  there  is  nothing  better  for  the  purpose  than  copperas ;  it  possesses 
no  bad  odor.  Do  not  place  carbolic  powder  boxes,  nor  sprinkle  chloride  of 
lime,  etc.,  where  your  drain  openings  exist,  merely  to  distract  your  nose*s 
attention  from  the  sewer  gas,  which  is  issuing  from  some  leaking  pipe  or 
choked  trap;  by  so  doing  you  but  ignore  nature's  warning,  that  like  the 
premonitory  smoke  and  rumblings  of  a  volcano,  advises  you  of  the  eruption 
of  the  disease  to  come.    While  house-cleaning,  brighten  up  old  furniture  by  / 

mbbing  well  with  kerosene  oil;  should  it  be  marred  or  bruised,  use  the  / 

"  Magic  Furniture  Polish  "  page  446.    Take  bedsteads  to  pieces,  and  saturate  ' 

every  crevice  with  strong  brine;  nothing  is  better  to  purify  and  cleanse,  or 
to  destroy  bed-bugs.  To  clean  mirrors,  take  clean  warm  rain-water,  and 
put  in  just  enough  spirits  of  ammonia  to  make  it  feel  slippery.  If  very 
dirty,  rinse,  if  not,  wipe  dry  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  effect.  Do 
not  polish  stoves  until  fall  if  you  are  going  to  put  them  away  during  the 
summer,  but  to  keep  them  or  any  iron  utensils  from  rusting,  rub  over 
with  kerosene.  When  polishing,  six  or  eight  drops  of  turpentine  added  to 
blacking  for  one  stove,  brightens  it  and  makes  it  easier  to  polish.  To  re* 
move  mortar  and  paint  from  windows,  rub  spots  of  mortar  with  hot, 
sharp  vinegar;  or,  if  nearly  fresh,  cold  vinegar  will  loosen  them.  Rub  the 
paint  spots  with  camphene  and  sand.  To  remove  spots  from  gray  marble 
hearths  rub  with  linseed  oil. 

Fall  house-cleaning  deserves  no  less  attention,  except  that  white- washing 
and  painting  can  best  be  done  in  the  mild  days  of  spring,  when  the  house 
may  be  thrown  open  to  wind  and  sunshine.  The  best  time  is  in  the 
constant  weather  of  October ;  and  before  beginning,  all  the  dirty  and  heavy 
work  for  the  winter,  such  ea  getting  in  coal  and  wood,  should  be  com- 
pleted, and  the  cellar  made  clean  and  sweet. 

PROTECTION  AGAINST  MOTHS. 

During  the  week  before  the  "siege"  of  house-cleaning  in  spring  or  fall, 
look  over  all  garments  and  articles  to  be  put  away,  mend,  remove  all  grease 
spots  if  possible.  An  effective  mode  for  cleansing  is  to  a  table-spoon  ammonia 
add  a  tea-cup  boiling  water;  when  cool  enough  saturate  a  piece  of  the  goods 
or  a  sjwnge  with  it  and  rub  the  spot  briskly,  rinse  with  a  clean  cloth  and 
fresh  water,  rubbing  as  before.  Shape  the  garment  with  the  hands  so  that 
the  wet  part  will  neither  be  stretched  or  shrunken;  dry  in  the  air  or  by  a 
sunny  window.  If  not  out  repeat  process  being  careful  to  rub  the  goods  with 
the  nap,  then  beat  with  a  limber  cane  and  place  on  the  line  in  the  wind  and 
sun  for  a  day.  Towards  evening,  before  dampness  finds  its  way  into  them, 
fold  them  up  with  pulverized  camphor,  cut  tobacco  or  cedar  chips,  lay  in 
their  wrinkles,  wrap  them  in  newspaper,  carefully  tie  and  label  them,  and 
they  are  ready  for  the  closet  .shelves.  Or,  have  fixed  a  trunk,  box,  or  chest 
that  is  thoroughly  cleaned,  and  lay  an  old  sheet,  that  has,  however,  no  holes 
28 


/ 


434  HOUSE-CLEANINQ. 

In  it,  in  this  receptacle,  so  that  the  middle  of  the  sheet  is  parallel  with  the 
bottom  of  the  box.  Lay  the  heaviest  garment  at  the  bottom  with  a  plentiful 
supply  of  gam  camphor,  in  bits  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  or  cedar  shavings, 
strewn  upon  each  garment;  when  the  box  is  filled  strew  camphor  or  cedar 
shavings  on  top  of  the  last  garment,  and  all  around  the  edges,  and  fold  and 
pin  the  sheet  over  so  that  all  of  the  edges  lap  over  each  other.  Close  the 
box,  and  set  in  closet  in  some  part  of  the  house  which  is  frequented  often 
during  the  warm  weather,  for  the  presence  of  any  animated  object  is  certain 
to  disturb  the  moth.  Alwaj's  clear  out  all  closets  and  trunks  early  in  the 
spring.  Wash  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  a  mixture  of  ammonia  and  alcohoL 
Every  thing  the  closets  or  trunks  contain  should  be  shaken  and  well  aired. 

Sometimes  a  heavj'  carpet,  in  a  room  seldom  used,  is  not  taken  up  at  house- 
cleaning  time.  In  this  case  lay  a  cloth  along  the  edge  of  the  carpet  and  pass 
slowly  over  it  with  a  hot  flat-iron.  This  will  kill  moths  and  their  eggs.  If 
moths  are  discovered  in  a  carpet  at  a  time  when  it  is  inconvenient  to  take  it 
up,  they  may  be  killed  in  the  same  way.  A  carpet,  particularly  if  turned 
under  at  edges,  should  not  be  left  down  longer  than  one  year,  even  if  not 
much  used. 

All  moths  work  in  the  dark,  hence  clothing,  furs  or  carpets  exposed  to  the 
light  arc  not  in  so  much  danger  as  when  put  away  in  the  dark.  The  worms 
are  torpid  and  do  not  work  during  the  cold  of  the  winter.  Early  in  the 
spring  they  change  into  chrysalids,  and  again  in  about  three  weeks  they 
transform  into  winged  moths,  when  they  fly  about  the  house  during  the 
evening  until  May  or  June.  Then  they  lay  their  eggs,  always  in  dark  places, 
and  immediately  after  die.  The  eggs,  which  are  too  small  to  be  detected  with 
the  naked  eye,  hatch  out  in  about  two  weeks,  and  the  young  worms  immedi- 
ately proceed  to  work. 

Furs  should  not  be  worn  late  in  the  season.  They  should  be  combed  care- 
fully with  a  dressing-comb,  beaten  and  aired  (but  not  in  the  hot  sun),  sprink- 
led with  camphor  gum,  and  wrapped  in  linen,  sewed  up,  and  then  put  in  a 
paper  bag.  Newspaper  is  not  strong  enough;  brown  wrapping  paper  is 
better.  Paper  boxes  may  be  used,  but  should  be  pasted  securely  so  nothing 
can  enter.  Cedar  chests  will  effectually  keep  out  moths,  but  few  are  so  fort- 
unate as  to  possess  these.  Any  article  of  fur,  which  has  previously  been 
troubled  with  moths,  should  be  opened  and  examined  in  July,  to  make  sure 
no  moth  is  harbored  in  them,  despite  the  precautions  taken.  This  process, 
pursued  resolutely  year  after  year,  will  keep  a  house  almost,  if  not  entirely 
free,  from  the  moth,  and  save  much  destruction  and  annoyance. 

In  the  country  remote  from  drug-stores,  many  housekeepers  use  the  dried 
leaves  of  sage,  thyme,  spearmint  and  other  highly  scented  herbs.  These  are 
gatlicred  after  the  housewife  has  laid  in  aM  she  may  require  for  cooking  and 
medicinal  purposes,  are  tied  in  bunches  and  dried,  and  then  laid  among  the 
clothes  in  the  large  wooden  chest ;  or  a  pole  is  laid  from  rafter  to  rafter,  and 
the  clothing  is  hung  over  this,  and  casings  of  calico  or  old  cotton  quilts  are 
carefully  pinned  around  each  garment,  the  bunches  of  herbs  being  also 
pinned  at  intervals  about  the  clothing. 


J 


PAPEEINQ.  435 

KALSOMINING. 

If  papering  and  painting,  or  kalsominlng  are  to  be  done,  do  the  last  named 
first.      Wash  ceiling  that  has  been  smoked  by  the  kerosene  lamp,  with  a  strong 
solution  of  soda.    Fill  all  cracks  in  tiie  wall  with  a  cement  made  of  one  pai't 
water  to  one  part  silicate  of  potash  mixed  with  common  whiting.    Put  it  in 
with,  a  limber  case-knife  if  you  have  no  trowel.    In  an  hour,  after  it  has  set, 
scrape  off  the  rough  places,  and  after  kalsomining  no  trace  of  the  crack  will 
appear.    For  the  wash,  take  eight  pounds  whiting  and  one-fourth  pound  white 
glue;  cover  glue  with  cold  water  over  night,  and  heat  gradually  in  the  morn- 
ing until  dissolved.    Mix  whiting  with  hot  water,  add  the  dissolved  glue  and 
stir  together,  adding  warm  water  until  about  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Use  a  kalsomine  brush,  which  is  finer  than  a  white-wash  brush,  and  leaves  the 
work  smoother.    Brush  in,  and  finish  as  you  go  along.    If  skim-milk  is 
naed  instead  of  water,  the  glue  may  be  omitted. 

PAINTING. 

If  painting  has  been  required,  a  patient  endurance  of  a  sufficient  number 
of  drying  days  must  be  given  over  to  this  process.  The  smell  of  the  turpen- 
tine will  be  very  much  diminished,  and  the  unwholesomenessof  paint  almost 
destroyed,  by  placing  in  the  apartments,  and  in  the  adjoining  sleeping-rooms, 
several  wash-bowls  or  pails  filled  with  cold  water.  In  the  morning  the  top 
of  the  water  will  exhibit  the  material  which  it  has  absorbed,  and  which  those 
who  were  breathing  the  same  air  would  have  taken  into  their  systems.  If  but 
one  coat  of  paint  is  to  be  placed  upon  an  apartment,  all  the  wood  should  be 
carefully  washed  with  strong  sal-soda  water,  and  dried  before  painting  it,  to  re- 
move any  oily  or  dingy  spots  that  would  otherwise  soon  show  through  a 
eingle  layer  of  either  white  or  color. 

Any  woman  of  a  mechanical  turn  of  mind  can  paint  a  room,  buying  the 
l^int  ready  mixed.  While  painting  keep  the  room  well  ventilated  and  eat 
acid  fruits.  When  done,  any  spatters  on  the  glass  may  be  removed  by  the 
application  of  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  turpentine,  washed 
off  with  soap-suds.  To  polish  the  glass,  wash  in  warm  water,  wipe  with  a  soft 
cloth,  put  a  Utile  whiting  on  the  center  of  the  pane,  and  rub  with  chamois* 
4kin  or  a  soft  cloth. 

PAPERING. 

In  papering  a  hard-finished  wall,  a  thin  solution  of  white  glue  should  be 
first  applied  with  a  white-wash  brush.  To  make  the  paste,  sift  the  fiour,  add 
one  ounce  pulverized  alym  to  every  pound  of  flour,  mix  it  smoothly  with 
cold  water,  and  pour  over  it  gently  but  quickly  boiling  water,  stirring  mean- 
time constantly.  When  it  swells  and  turns  yellow  it  is  done,  but  is  not  to  be 
used  until  cool,  and  may  be  kept  for  some  time  without  spoiling.  Or,  for 
paste,  clear  corn  starch  is  sometimes  used,  made  precisely  as  made  for  starch- 
ing clothes.  It  is  well  to  use  a  small  quantity  of  carbolic  acid  in  it,  as  a  pre- 
caution against  vermin.  A  thin  paste  of  wheat,  or  what  is  better,  rye  fiour, 
is,  however,  very  good  for  any  thing  except  the  most  delicate  papers.  The 
wall  should  be  smooth,  and  if  very  smoky  or  greasy  in  spots,  it  should  be 
washed  with  weak  lye  or  soap-suds.    Trim  the  paper  close  to  the  pattern  on 


436  GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS. 

one  8ide.  A  pair  of  long  shears  is  best  for  the  purpose— allowing  the  roll  to 
lie  on  the  floor,  and  rolling  up  again  on  the  lap  as  fast  as  trimmed.  Provide 
a  board  wider  than  the  paper,  and  a  little  longer  than  a  single  breadth  when 
cut.  Cut  all  the  full  breadths  that  will  be  required  for  the  room,  matching 
as  you  cut,  and  saving  remnants  for  door  and  window  spaces.  Begin  at 
the  right  hand  and  work  to  the  left.  The  breadths  may  be  laid  one  on 
another  on  the  board,  the  top  one  pasted  with  a  good  brush,  the  top 
turned  down,  bringing  the  two  pasted  sides  together,  a  foot  or  two  from 
the  other  end.  Carefully  adjust  the  top  to  its  place,  gently  pressing  it 
with  soft  towels,  first  down  the  middle  of  the  breadth  and  then  to  each  edge. 
In  turning  a  corner,  paste  only  that  part  which  belongs  to  one  side,  fasten 
it  in  place,  and  then  paste  and  adjust  the  rest.  The  border  may  be  tacked 
on ;  No.  4  tacks  will  not  be  visible  at  the  top  of  a  room,  and  it  may  be  re- 
moved when  the  ceiling  needs  whitening.  In  selecting  paper  avoid  contrasts 
in  colors  and  large  staring  patterns,  as  they  are  out  of  taste  and  tiresome 
to  the  eye.  Choose  rather  neutral  tints  and  colors  that  harmonize  and  blend 
agreeably  together,  and  with  the  general  tone  of  carpets  and  furniture. 
Even  with  a  bare  floor  and  plain  wooden  chairs,  the  effect  of  a  soft-tinted 
paper  gives  a  vastly  different  impression  than  if  the  wall  is  disfigured 
with  glaring  figures  and  contrasting  colors.  If  ceilings  are  low,  heighten  the 
appearance  by  a  figure  which  runs  perpendicularly  through  the  wall-paper; 
the  effect  produced  is  very  deceptive — the  ceiling  appearing  much  higher 
than  it  really  is.  Wall-paper  is  half  a  yard  wide,  and  about  eight  yards  to 
the  roll,  so  that  it  is  easy  to  estimate  the  quantity  needed.  It  is  wise  al- 
ways to  get  one  extra  roll  for  repairs.  After  papering  a  room  build  no  fire 
in  it  until  dry. 

GENERAL  BUGQESTIONS. 

On  Monday,  wash:  Tuesday,  iron:  Wednesday,  bake  and  scrub  kitchen 
and  pantry :  Thursday,  clean  the  silver- ware,  examine  the  pots  and  kettles, 
and  look  after  store-room  and  cellar :  Friday,  devote  to  general  sweeping 
and  dusting :  Saturday,  bake  and  scrub  kitchen  and  pantry  floors,  and  pre- 
pare for  Sunday.  When  the  clothes  are  folded  off  the  frame  after  ironing, 
examine  each  piece  to  see  that  none  are  laid  away  that  need  a  button  or  a 
stitch.  Clean  all  the  silver  on  the  last  Friday  of  each  month,  and  go 
through  each  room  and  closet  to  see  if  things  are  kept  in  order  and  nothing 
going  to  waste.  Have  the  sitting-room  tidied  up  every  night  before  retir- 
ing. Make  the  most  of  your  brain  and  your  ey^,  and  let  no  one  dare  tell 
you  that  you  are  devoting  yourself  to  a  low  sphere  of  action.  Keep  cool 
and  self-possessed.  Work  done  quietly  about  the  house  seems  easier.  A 
slamming  of  oven  doors,  and  the  rattle  and  clatter  of  dishes,  tire  and  be- 
wilder every  body  about  the  house.  Those  who  accomplish  much  in  house- 
keeping— and  the  same  is  true  of  every  other  walk  in  life— are  the  quiet 
workers. 


Silver-ware,  when  set  away,  keeps  best  wrapped  in  blue  tissue-paper. 
Raiky  Days. — Make  tlie  house  as  bright  ana  sunshiny  as  possible. 


GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS.  437 

To  Preve2»t  Hinges  Creakino. — Rub  with  a  feather  dipped  in  oil. 

To  Drive  ofp  Fleas.— Sprinkle  about  bed  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  lavender. 

Red  Ants. — A  small  bag  of  sulphur  kept  in  a  drawer  or  cupboard  will 
^rive  away  red  ants. 

Icy  Windows. — Windows  may  be  kept  free  from    ice  and  polished  by 
nibbing  the  glass  with  a  si>onge  dipped  m  alcohol. 

To  Destroy   Cockroaches,    etc.-— Sprinkle  the  floor  with   hellebore  at 
night.    They  eat  it  and  are  ^^oisoned. 

Lost  CniLnREN. — Label  children's  hats  with  the  name  and  place  of  resi- 
dence so  that,  i*  lost,  they  may  be  easily  restored. 

Parcels. — When  parcels  are  brought  to  the  house,  fold  paper  and  put 
away  in  drawer,  and  roll  the  string  on  a  ball  kept  for  the  purpose. 

Soap.— It  is  a  great  saving  to  have  bars  of  soap  dry.  It  should  be  bought 
by  the  quantity. 

'To  Prevent  Pails  prom  Shrinking. — Saturate  pails  and  tubs  with  gly- 
cerine, and  they  will  not  shrink. 

To  Keep  Flies  ofp  Gilt  Frames. — Boil  three  or  four  onions  in  a  pint  of 
water  and  apply  with  a  soft  brush. 

To  Remove  Old  Putty  from  Window-Frames. — Pass  a  red-hot  poker  alowly 
over  it,  and  it  will  come  off  easily.      • 

To  Soften  Hard  Water. — ^Hard  water  l>ecomes  nearly  soft  by  boiling.  A. 
piece  of  chalk  will  soften  hard  spring-water. 

Provide  on  Saturday  for  Monday,  so  as  not  to  take  up  the  fire  with 
cooking,  or  time  in  running  errands  on  washing-day. 

To  &)FTEN  Cistern-Water. — Cistern-water  that  has  become  hard  froiki. 
long  standing,  can  be  softened  by  adding  a  little  borax. 

To  Destroy  the  Smell  op  Fresh  Paint. — Sprinkle  hay  with  water  in  which 
chloride  of  lime  has  been  mixed,  and  place  on  floor. 

Ants  and  Insects. — Dissolve  two  pounds  alum  in  three  quarts  water.  Ap- 
plv  with  a  brush  while  hot  to  everjr  crevice  where  vermin  harbor. 

1*0  Clean  Chromos. — Dampen  a  linen  rag  slightly  and  go  over  them  gently. 
If  the  varnish  has  become  defaced,  cover  with  a  thin  mastic  varnish. 

Coal  Ashes  make  excellent  garden  walks.  They  become  very  hard  by  use 
and  no  weeds  or  grass  will  grow  through  them. 

To  Cleanse  a  Sponge.— By  rubbing  a  fresh  lemon  thoroughly  into  a 
fionred  sponge  and  rinsing  it  several  times  in  lukewarm  water,  it  will  become 
AS  sweet  as  when  new. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots  prom  Carpets. — Cover  spots  with  flour  and 
then  pin  a  thick  paper  over ;  repeat  the  process  several  times,  each  time 
(irushmg  off  the  old  flour  into  a  aust-pan  and  putting  on  fresh. 

Mending. — Never  put  away  clean  clothes  without  examining  every  piece 
to  see  if  they  are  in  any  way  out  of  order.  Stockings,  particularly,  should 
be  carefully  darned. 

HardWhitewash. — Ten  cents  worth  of  kalsomine,  five  cents  worth  of 
glue  dissolved  in  warm  water,  two  quarts  of  soft  soup,  and  bluing.  This  will 
do  'for  halls  closets,  fences,  etc. 

Bad  Smell.^. — Articles  of  clothing,  or  of  any  other  character,  which  have 
become  impregnated  with  bad-smelling  substances,  will  be  freed  from  ihem 
by  burying  for  a  day  or  two  in  the  ground.  Wrap  up  lightly  before  burying. 
Cement  for  China. — To  a  thick  soluticm  of  gum  arable  add  enough  plaster 
of  parts  to  form  a  sticky  paste;  apply  with  a  brush,  and  stick  edges  to- 
gether. 

Sheets. — ^When  sheets  arc  beginning  to  wear  in  the  middle,  sew  the  sel- 
yage  sides  together  and  rip  open  the  old  seam,  or  tear  in  two  and  hem  the 
Bides. 

To  Make  Artificial  Coral. — Melt  together  four  parts  yellow  resin  and 
one  part  vermilion.    Dip  twigs,  cinders,  or  stones  in  this,  and  when  dry  they 
will  look  like  coral. 
To  Sew  Carpet-rags  on  a  Machine. — Make  the  stitch  short,  run  it  ob- 


438  GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS. 

liqaely  across  the  rags  where  they  are  to  be  joined,  and  sew  a  good  many 
before  cutting  the  thread. 

A  Rustic  Frame. — A  neat  rustic  frame  for  pictures  may  be  made  of  cat- 
tail rods.  Hide  the  corners  where  they  are  joined  with  ivy,  or  a  vine  made 
of  leather-leaves  or  handsome  autumn  leaves  and  the  berries  of  bitter-sweet 

To  Destroy  Weeds  in  Walks. — Boil  ten  pounds  stone-lime,  five  gallons 
water  and  one  pound  fiour  of  sulphur,  let  settle,  pour  off  clear  part,  and 
sprinkle  treely  upon  the  weed^  walks. 

To  Mend  Tin. --Scrape  the  tin  about  the  hole  free  from  grease  and  rust,  rub 
on  a  piece  of  resin  until  a  powder  lies  about  the  hole,  over  it  lay  a  piece  of  ■ 
solder,  and  hold  on  it  a  hot  poker  or  soldering  iron  until  it  melts. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Wood  before  Painting. — Whitewash  the  spots 
over  night,  and  wash  it  olf  in  the  morning.  When  dry,  the  paint  will  stick. 
Slaked  Time  laid  on  the  spots  and  wet  a  little,  will  do  as  well  as  whitewash. 

To  Clean  Hearths. — Soapstone  or  sandistone  hearths  are  cleaned  by 
washing  in  pure  water,  then  sprinkling  with  powdered  marble  or  soapKstooe, 
and  rubbing  with  a  piece  of  the  stone  as  large  as  a  brick,  and  having  at 
least  one  tlat  surface. 

Lightning  Cream  for  Paint  or  Plothes. — Four  ounces  white  castile 
soap,  four  of  ammonia,  two  of  ether,  two  of  alcohol,  one  of  glycerine;  cut  the 
soap  fine,  dissolve  in  one  quart  of  soft  water  over  the  fire,  and  when  dissolved 
add  the  other  ingredients. 

Kerosene  and  Carpets. — ^When  so  unfortunate  as  to  spill  kerosene  oil  or 
other  grease  on  a  carpet,  sprinkle  buckwheat  flour  (wheat  flour  will  do) 
lightly  over  it  until  it  is  completely  covered,  and  let  it  lie  without  disturb- 
ing it  for  a  week ;  brush  off,  and  there  will  be  no  trace  of  oil  left 

Magic  Furniture  Polish. — Half  pint  alcohol,  half  ounce  resin,  half 
ounce  gum-shellac,  a  few  drops  analine  brown ;  let  stand  over  night  and  add 
three-fourths  pint  raw  linseed  oil  and  half  pint  spirits  turpentine ;  shake  well 
before  using.     Apply  with  cotton  flannel,  and  rub  dry  with  another  cloth. 

To  Hang  Pictures. — The  cheapest  and  best  material  with  which  to 
hang  pictures  is  copper  wire,  of  a  size  proportioned  to  the  weight  of  the 

Sicture.  When  hunz,  the  wire  is  scarcely  visible,  and  its  strength  and 
urability  is  wonderful. 

Lamp-wicks. — To  insure  a  good  light,  wicks  must  be  changed  often,  as 
they  soon  become  clogged,  and  do  not  permit  the  free  j^assage  of  the  oiL 
Soaking  wicks  in  vinegar  twenty-four  hours  before  placing  m  lamp  insures  a 
clear  flame.    Felt  wicks  are  best. 

To  Temper  Lamp  Chimneys. — Lamp  chimneys  and  glass-ware  for  hot 
water  are  made  less  liable  to  brake  by  putting  in  cold  watser,  bringing  slowly 
to  boiling  point,  boiling  for  an  hour,  and  allowing  to  cool  before  removing 
from  water. 

Furniture  Polish. — One  and  a  half  ounces  each  alcohol  and  butter  of 
antimony,  one-half  ounce  muriatic  acid,  eight  ounces  of  linseed-oil,  one- 
half  pint  vinegar.  Mix  cold.  This  has  been  tried  for  twelve  years  and  has 
been  regularly  sold  for  $10. 

A  Cheap  Carpet. — Make  a  cover  for  the  floor  of  the  cheapest  cotton  cloth. 
Tack  it  down  like  a  carpet,  paper  it  as  you  would  a  wail  with  paper  re- 
sembling a  carpet  in  figures,  let  it  dry,  varnish  with  two  coats  of  varnish,  and 
with  reasonable  usage  it  will  last  two  years. 

Mending  Plaster  of  Paris. — Gum  shellac  makes  an  excellent  strong 
cement  for  joining  broken  pieces  together,  and  is  more  covenient  than  glue. 
The  shellac  should  be  flowea  upon  the  surfaces  to  be  joined,  firmly  pressed 
together,  and  carefully  set  away  for  about  one  hour. 

To  Make  Rag  Rugs. — Cut  rags  and  sew  hit  and  miss,  or  fancy  striped  as 
you  choose ;  use  wooden  needles,  round,  smooth,  and  pointed  at  one  end,  of 
any  convenient  length.  The  knitting  is  done  back  and  forth  (like  old  fash- 
ioned suspenders),  always  take  off  the  first  stich. — Anna  F.  Sisey, 

To  Clear  Cistern  Water. — ^Add  two  ounces  powdered  alum  and  two 


GENERAL  SUOGE/STIONS.  439 

^nnces  borax  to  a  twenty  barrel  cistern  of  rain-water  that  is  blackened  or 
oily,  and  in  a  few  hours  the  sediment  will  settle,  and  the  water  be  clarified 
■and  fit  for  washing  and  even'for  cooking  purposes. 

To  MAKE  Oil-Cloths  more  Durable. — Before  or  after  putting  down  new 
oil-cloths,  put  on  one  or  two  coats  of  linseed-oil  with  a  brush,  and  when 
thoroughly  dry,  add  one  or  two  coats  of  varnish.  This  makes  the  cloth 
softer  and  much  more  duToble. — Miss  Eva  Evatit^  Delaware. 

To  Keep  Ice-water. — Make  a  hat-shaped  cover  of  two  thick^nesses  of 
43trong  brown  paper  with  cotton-batting  quilted  between,  large  enough  to 
cirop  over  and  completely  envelop  the  pitcher.  This  prevents  the  warm  air 
from  coming  in  contact  with  the  pitcher,  and  the  ice  will  last  a  long  time. 

To  Sweep  a  Rag-Carpet. — St?t  a  pail  of  water  outside  the  door  and  dip  the 
broom  in  it,  shaking  the  water  otf,  so  there  will  be  no  wet  streaks  on  the  car- 
pet ;  sweep  but  a  small  portion,  and  then  dip  the  broom  again ;  in  this  way 
the  dust  is  taken  up  in  the  broom,  instead  of  being  sent  whirling  througn 
the  air. 

To  Start  a  Fire  in  damp,  still  Weather. — Light  a  few  bits  of  shavings 
or  paper  placed  upon  the  top  of  grate:  thus  by  the  heated  air's  forcing  itself 
into  the  chimney  and  establishing  tnere  an  upward  current,  the  roOto  is 
kept  free  from  the  gas  and  smoke  which  is  so  apt  to  fill  it,  and  the  tire  can 
then  be  lighted  from  below  with  good  success. 

Putting  away  Clothes. — Before  putting  away  summer  or  winter  clothes, 
mend,  clean,  brush,  shake  well,  fold  smoothly,  sprinkle  gum-camphor,  on 
«very  fold,  and  on  the  bottom  of  trunks  or  closets  (unless  cedar  chests  are 
used).  Fine  dresses,  cloaks,  etc.,  should  be  wrapped  in  towels  or  sheets  by 
themselves,  and  placed  in  the  tray  or  a  separate  apartment  of  the  trunk. 

Cement  for  Attaching  Metal  to  Glass. — Mix  two  ounces  of  a  thick 
■solution  of  glue  with  one  ounce  of  linseed-oil  varnish,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  pure  spirits  of  turpentine ;  boil  the  whole  together  in  a  close  vessel.  After 
it  has  been  applied  to  the  glass  and  metal,  clamp  together  for  two  or  three 
days  till  dry. 

Cane  Chair-Bottoms. — ^To  clean  and  restore  the  elasticity  of  cane  chair- 
bottoms,  turn  the  chair  bottom  upward,  and  with  hot  water  and  a  sponge 
wash  the  cane ;  work  well,  so  that  it  is  well  soaked ;  should  it  be  dirty  use 
floap,  let  it  dry  well  in  the  air,  and  it  will  be  as  tight  and  firm  as  new,  pro- 
vided none  of  the  canes  are  broken. 

To  Paste  Paper  on  Tin. — Make  a  thin  paste  of  gum-tragacanth  and  water, 
to  which  add  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  vitriol.  Mix  a  pound  each  of  transparent 
glue  and  very  strong  vinegar,  one  quart  alcohol,  a  small  quantity  of  alum, 
and  dissolve  by  means  of  a  water-bath.  This  is  useful  for  uniting  horn, 
pearl,  shell,  and  bone. 

To  Clean  Oil-Cloths.— Take  a  pail  of  clean,  soft,  lukewarm  water,  a  nice, 
soft  piece  of  flannel,  wash  the  oil-cloth  and  wipe  very  dry  so  that  no  drop  of 
water  is  left  to  soak  in  and  rot  the  fabric.  After  washing  and  drying,  if  a 
cloth  is  rung  out  of  a  dish  of  skim-milk  and  water,  and  the  oil-cloth  is  rubbed 
over  with  this,  and  then  again  well  dried,  the  freshness  and  luster  of  the 
cloth  will  well  rej)ay  the  extra  labor. 

How  to  Wash  Chamois  Leather. — Make  a  good,  tepid  suds  with  hard  or* 
soft  soap,  put  in  leather,  rub  it  on  the  wash-board,  put  soap  on  skin  and  rulj 
again  on  board,  and  wash  in  this  way  through  one  or  two  suds,  or  until  per- 
fectly clean;  rinse  in  tepid  water  without  bluing,  squeeze  dry  (do  not  wring), 
hang  in  sun  and  keep  snapping  and  pulling  it  till  perfectly  dry.  The  leather 
will  be  as  soft  as  new  if  the  snapping  and  pulling  are  done  thoroughly. 

A  Cheap  Filter. — The  most  impure  water  may  be  rendered  pure*  by  fil- 
tering through  charcoal.  Take  a  large  flovver-pot,  put  a  piece  of  sponge  or 
clean  moss  over  the  hole  in  the  bottom,  fill  three-quarters  full  of  equal  parts 
clean  sand  and  charcoal,  the  size  of  a  pea;  over  this  lay  a  linen  or  woolen 
cloth  large  enough  to  hang  over  the  sides  of  the  pot.  Pour  the  water  into 
the  cloth,  and  it  will  come  out  pure. 


440  GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS, 

To  Clean  Looking  Glasses. — Divide  a  newspaper  in  two,  fold  np  one- 
half  in  a  small  square,  wet  in  cold  water.  Rub  tiie  glass  first  with  tlie  wet 
half  of  the  paper,  and  dry  with  the  other.  Fly-specks  and  all  other  marks 
will  disappear  as  if  by  magic.  This  is  only  true  of  the  best  quality  of  rag 
paper,  sucn  as  is  used  by  tlie  best  weekly  papers.  Paper  which  has  wood  or 
straw  in  it  leaves  a  linty  deposit  on  the  glass. 

To  Cl^an  Silver- ware  Easily. — Save  water  in  which  potatoes  have 
been  boiled  with  a  little  salt,  let  it  become  sour,  which  it  will  do  in  a  few 
days;  heat  and  wash  the  articles  with  a  woolen  cloth,  rinsing  in  pure  water, 
dry  and  polish  with  chamois-leather.  Never  allow  a  particle  of  soap  to 
touch  silver  or  plated  ware.  For  wiping  silver,  an  old  linen  t&ble-cloth  cut 
np  in  pieces  of  convenient  size,  hemmed,  and  marked  "silver,"  is  very  nicje. 

To  Clean  Smoke  off  Marble.— Wet  a  piece  of  flannel  in  strong  ammonia 
and  rub  the  marble  quickly  with  it,  and  then  wash  off  with  hot  soap-suds ; 
or,  make  a  paste  of  chloriue  of  lime  and  water  and  brush  over  the  whole 
surface  that  is  smoky.  Let  it  stand  a  minute,  then  wash  with  hot  suds.  A 
paste  of  crude  potash  and  whiting  brushed  over  a  grease  spot  on  marble  will 
cleanse  it  perfectly. 

Economical  Mats  for  use  in  front<loors,  fire-places^  bureaus,  stands, 
etc.,  may  be  made  of  cotfee-sacking,  cut  to  any  desired  size,  and  worked  in 
bright  worsted  or  Germantown  wool.  Any  simple  pattern  may  be  used  or 
it  may  be  entirelv  filled  in  with  a  plain  green.  The  edges  of  the  sacking 
may  be  fringed  oy  raveUng.  To  give  it  weight,  line  with  an  old  piece  ^ 
carpet  or  heavy  cloth. 

A  Good  Cement — For  mending  almost  any  thin^,  may  be  made  by  mixing 
litharge  and  glycerine  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream  or  fresn  putty. 
This  cement  is  useful  for  mending  stone  jars,  stopping  leaks  in  seams  of  tin- 
pans  or  wash-boilers,  cracks  and  holes  in  iron  kettles,  fastening  on  lamp^tops; 
an  all  cases  the  article  mended  should  not  be  used  till  the  cement  has  hard- 
<ened.  This  cement  will  resist  the  action  of  water,  hot  or  cold,  acids,  and 
•almost  any  degree  of  heat. 

To  Preserve  Books. — Bindings  may  be  preserved  from  mildew  bv  brush- 
ing them  over  with  the  spirits  of  wine.  A  few  drops  of  any  perfumed  oil  will 
secure  libraries  from  the  consuming  effects  of  mold  and  damp.  Russia 
leather  which  is  perfumed  with  the  tar  of  the  birch-tree,  never  molds  or  sus- 
tains injury  from  damp.  The  Romans  used  oil  of  cedar  to  preserve  valuable 
manuscripts.  Russia-leather  covered  books,  placed  in  a  stationer's  window, 
will  destroy  flies  and  other  insects. 

Badlt  Fitting  Doors. — When  blinds  and  doors  no  not  close  snugly,  but 
leave  cracks  through  which  drafts  enter,  the  simplest  remedy  is  this:  Place  a 
strip  of  putty  all  along  the  jambs,  cover  the  edge  of  the  blind  or  door  with 
chalk,  and  shut  it.  The  putty  will  then  fill  all  spaces  which  would  remain 
open  and  be  pressed  out  where  it  is  not  needed,  while  the  excess  is  easily 
removed  with  a  knife.  The  chalk  rubbed  on  the  edges  prevents  adhesion, 
and  the  putty  is  left  in  place,  where  it  soon  dries  and  leaves  a  perfectly  fit- 
ting jamb. 

Care  of  Oil  Paintings  and  Frames. — Wash  the  picture,  when  neces- 
sary, in  sweet  milk  and  warm  water,  drying  carefully.  Or,  clean  the  paint- 
ing well  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  warm  beer,  and  when  perfectly  dry,  wash 
with  a  solution  of  the  finest  gum-dragon  dissolved  in  pure  water.  '  To  re- 
touch a  gilt  frame  wet  the  rubbed  spot  with  isinglass  dissolved  in  weak 
spirits.  When  about  dry.  lay  on  gcjld-leaf,  and  when  quite  dry,  polish  with 
a  very  hard  burnisher.  Give  the  gilt  frame  when  new  a  ooat  of  white  var- 
nish, and  all  specks  can  then  be  washed  off  with  water  or  suds  without 
harm. 

Finish  for  Room. — A  room  with  plain  white  walls  is  finished  beautifully 
by  placing  a  black  walnut  (or  the  same  wood  with  which  the  room  is  fin- 
ished) molding  around  the  room  where  the  border  of  paper  is  usually  placed, 
at  the  junction  of  wall  and  ceiling.    The  molding,  finished  in  oil,  costs  from 


GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS.  441 

one  to  five  cents  a  foot,  and  is  easily  put  up.  The  upper  edge  should  be 
rounded,  and  a  space  of  a  quarter  inch  left  between  it  and  ceiling.  To  hang 
pictures  buy  an  S  hook,  sofd  at  all  hardware  stores,  place  one  hook  over  the 
molding,  hang  the  picture  cord  on  the  other,  and  slip  to  the  right  or  left  to 
the  desired  position.    This  saves  the  wall  from  injury  from  picture-nails. 

Pkbpbtual  Pastb. — Dissolve  a  tea-spoon  of  alum  in  a  quart  of  water. 
When  cold,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  will  give  it  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream,  being  particular  to  beat  up  all  the  lumps ;  stir  in  as  much  powdered 
losin  as  will  lay  on  a  five-cent  piece,  and  throw  in  half  a  dozen  cloves  to  give 
it  a  pleasant  odor.  Have  on  the  fire  a  tea-  cup  of  boiling  water,  pour  the 
flour  mixture  into  it,  stirring  well  at  the  time.  In  a  few  minutes  it  will  be 
of  the  consistency  of  mush.  Pour  it  into  an  earthen  vessel,  let  it  cool,  la^  a 
cover  on,  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  When  needed  for  use,  take  out  a  portion 
and  soften  it  with  warm  water.  Paste  made  in  this  way  will  last  a  year.  It 
is  better  than  gum,  as  it  does  not  gloss  the  paper. 

To  Clean  a  Papered  Wall. — Cut  into  eight  pieces  a  large  loaf  of  bread 
two  d&ya  old,  blow  dust  off  wall  with  a  bellows,  rub  down  with  a  piece  of  the 
bread,  in  half  yard  strokes,  beginning  at  the  top  of  the  room,  until  upper 
part  is  cleaned,  then  go  round  again  repeating  until  all  has  been  gone  over. 
Or,  better,  take  about  two  quarts  of  wheat  bran,  tie  it  in  a  bundle  of  coarse 
flannel,  and  rub  i^over  the  paper.  It  will  clean  the  paper  nicely.  If  done 
carefully,  so  that  every  spot  is  touched,  the  paper  will  look  almost  like  new. 
Dry  corn  meal  may  be  used  instead  of  bread,  applying  it  with  a  cloth.  If 
^ase  spots  appear,  put  blotting  paper  over  spots  and  press  with  a  hot  flat- 
iron. 

Ink  Stains  on  mahogany,  rosewood,  or  black  walnut  furniture  may  be 
removed  by  touching  the  stain  with  a  feather  wet  in  a  spoonful  of  water  in 
which  six  or  eight  drops  of  nitre  have  been  mixed.  As  soon  as  the  ink  dis- 
appears, rub  the  place  immediately  with  a  cloth  wet  in  cold  water,  or  tlie  nitre 
will  leave  a  white  stain.  If  the  ink  stain  then  remains,  make  the  solution  of 
nitre  stronger,  and  repeat.  Ink  stains  on  pa})er  mav  be  removed  by  a  solu- 
tion made  as  follows :  Dissolve  a  half  pound  chloride  of  lime  in  two  quarts 
of  soft  water ;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  strain  through  a  clean  cotton 
cloth ;  add  to  an  ounce  of  the  lime-watei^a  tea-spoon  of  acetic  acid,  apply  to 
the  blot,  and  the  ink  will  disappear.  Dry  with  blotting  paper.  Bottle  the 
remainder  of  the  lime-water  closely,  and  keep  for  future  use. 

The  Cabe  of  Marble. — Never  wash  the  marble  tops  of  wash-stands, 
bureaus,  etc.,  with  soap.  Use  clean  warm  water  (if  very  much  soiled  add  a 
little  ammonia)  and  a  soft  cloth,  drying  immediately  with  a  soft  towel. 
There  is  nothing  that  will  entirely  remove  grease  spots  from  marble,  hence 
the  necessity  of  avoiding  them.  To  clean  marble  or  marbleized  slate  man- 
tels, use  a  soft  sponge  or  chamois-skin,  dampened  in  clean  warm  water 
without  soap,  then  polish  with  dry  chamois-skin.  In  dusting,  use  a  feather- 
duster,  and  never  a  cloth,  as  it  is  likely  to  scratch  the  polished  surface. 
Slate  hearths  are  preferable  to  marble,  as  they  are  not  so  easily  soiled.  To 
wash  them,  use  a  clean  cloth  and  warm  water.  Many  oil  them  thoroughly 
when  new  with  linseed  oil ;  thus  prepared  they  never  show  grease  spots. 

Indelible  Ink. — Two  drams  lunar  caustic,  six  ounces  distilled  or  rain- 
water ;  dissolve,  and  add  two  drams  gum-water.  Wet  the  linen  with  the  fol- 
lowing preparation  :  Dissolve  one-half  an  ounce  prepared  natron,  four  ounces 
water,  add  half  ounce  gum-water,  (recii)e  below);  after  smoothing  it  with  a 
warm  iron,  write  with  the  ink,  usjng  a  gold,  quill,  or  a  new  steel  pen.  The 
writing  must  be  exposed  to  a  hot  sun  for  twelve  hours;  do  not  wash  for  one  ' 
week,  then  be  particular  to  get  out  the  stain  which  the  preparation  will 
make.  If  this  is  followed  in  every  particular,  there  need  never  be  a  failure. 
Oum- water  for  tlie  above  is  composed  of  two  drams  gum-arabic  to  four 
ounces  water.  One  tea-spoon  makes  two  drams,  two  taDle-spoons  make  one 
ounce.  If  at  any  time  the  ink  becomes  too  pale  add  a  little  of  pure  lunar 
caustic.    Never  write  without  using  the  preparation,  as  it  will  rot  the  cloth. 


442  GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS, 

To  Exterminate  BedbuiiS. — In  March  scald  with  hoi  ling  water  every  crack 
or  suspected  place  where  they  find  refuge,  and  then  touch  thoroughly  every 
crack  and  seam  where  the  bugs  are  likely  U)  harbor,  with  kerosene.  Great 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  injure  fine  varnished  furniture.  If  any  injury  ia 
done  to  varnish  by  the  hot  water,  it  may  be  restored  by  rubbing  immedi- 
ately witli  a  rag  wet  in  turpentine  or  oil.  Beds  should  be  examined  again 
for  vermin  in  July  and  August,  and  if  measures  are  taken  to  exterminate 
them,  there  will  be  very  little  trouble.  Another  death-dealing  method  is  to 
fill  crevices  with  salt,  and  wash  bedstead  with  .strong  brine,  or  use  kerosene 
in  the  same  way.  Paris-green  and  mercurial  ointment  are  deadly  poisons  to 
the  beilbug,  but  as  they  are  dangerous  to  have  in  the  house,  the  first-named 
metlKxls  are  preferable.*  One  jjart  quicksilver  to  twenty  parts  white  of  an 
egg,  applied  with  a  feather  to  every  crack  and  crevice  in  bedstead  and  room, 
will  kill  them.  Most  people  are  unable  to  console  them.selves  for  sleepless 
nights  as  did  the  Irishman,  who  said :  ''  Indade,  I  did  auite  as  well  as  the 
bugs,  for  not  one  of  them  slept  a  wink  all  night,"  and  the  above  recipes,  are 
anv  of  them  certain  to  remove  the  pests  if  pn)perly  and  faithfully  applied. 

Farmer's  Door  Mat. — Every  doorstep  should  be  provided  with  a  foOt- 
scraper  and  a  brush  or  broom,  and  every  one,  as  he  comes  in,  should  take  the 
time  to  use  them  before  appearing  on  the  carpet  or  clean  Hoor.  If  a  regular 
scraper — one  ma<le  for  the  purpose — is  not  at  hand,  one  can  make  one  from  a 
bit  of  hoop-iron,  which  is  to  be  placed  on  a  step  or  edge  of  the  porch  in  a 
convenient  place.  It  is  well  to  provide  a  **  mud-mat,"  which  is  simply  strips 
an  inch  or  so  sijuare — fence  pickets  will  answer — screwed  to  three  or  four 
cross-pieces  an  inch  apart,  or  a  more  elaborate  one  can  be  made  by  stringing 
the  .slats  upon  fence  wires.  One  with  muddy  boots  is  very  apt  to  stamp  ana 
rub  tliem  on  the  strips  or  floor  of  the  porch  f  a  mud-mat  will  clean  them  off 
more  effectually,  and  save  the  porch  hard  wear,  A  very  excellent  mat  may 
be  made  by  boring  holes  in  aboard,  and  drawing  corn  husks  tlirough  the 
lioles.  Careful  persons  change  their  foot-gear  when  they  enter  the  house  to 
remain  any  length  of  time— a  custom  con<lucive  not  only  to  neatness,  but  so 
greatly  to  comfort,  that  it  is  to  be  commended. 

Moving. — When  about  to  move  to  another  house,  begin  packing  two  weeks 
beforeliand.  Carefully  inuk  small  and  fragile  articles  in  boxes  arid  barrels. 
In  this  way,  china  and  glasswaJ*,  and  fragile  ornaments  may  be  stowed 
away  with  odd  articles  of  clothing,  bedding,  etc.  Books  should  be  packed 
in  boxes,  or  wrapped  several  in  a  package,  in  several  thicknesses  of  news- 
paper, and  tied  with  strong  twine.  They  can  thus  be  transported  with  very 
little  handling.  Larger  pictures  should  be  taken  down  and  tied  in  couples, 
face  to  face,  with  rolls  of  soft  paper  between  the  corners  to  prevent  rubbing. 
Small  pictures  maj'  be  packed  with  clothing  in  bureau-drawers  and  trunks. 
Take  up  carpets  last.  When  about  ready  to  move,  select  one  room  up-stairs 
into  which  remove  every  thing  possible  from  the  other  rooms,  and  another 
below  for  the  same  purpose.  If  the  occupant  of  the  house  into  which  you 
are  to  move  will  do  the  same,  you  can  easily  make  some  rooms  there  readv 
for  occupancy.  Of  course  each  room  must  be  swept  down  and  scrubbed. 
As  soon  as  the  floors  are  dry,  carpets  may  be  put  down  in  the  more  impor- 
tant rooms,  and  the  furniture  moved  in.  On  the  day  the  transfer  is  made, 
see  that  coal  or  fuel  is  provided,  so  that  a  fire  may  be  started,  and  take  along 
a  basket,  with  matches,  towels,  napkins,  knives  and  forks,  sugar,  tea,  bread, 
and  other  materials  for  lunching.  With  all  the  caution  you  can  exercise, 
you  will  find  Franklin's  old  saying  true,  that  "  three  removes  are  as  bad  as  a 
tire."  Houses  that  have  been  empty  may  become  fever  breeders  when  they 
•come  to  be  re-occupied.  An  English  sanitary  ofl!i(;er  alleges  that  he  has 
observed  typhoid,"  diphtheria,  or  other  zymotic  affections  to  arise  under  these 
circumstances.  The  cause  is  supposed  to  be  in  the  disiL«*e  of  cisterns,  pipes, 
and  drains,  the  process  of  putrefaction  going  on  in  the  impure  air  in  them, 
the  unobstructed  access  of  this  air  to  the  house,  while  the  closure  of  windows 
and  doors  effectually  shuts  out  fresh  air.    Persons  moving  from  the  city  to 


GENERAL  SUQOESTIONS.  443 

their  country  homes  for  the  summer,  should  see  that  the  drains  and  pipes 
are  in  perfect  order,  that  the  cellars  and  closets  are  cleared  of  rubbish,  and 
the  whole  house  thoroughly  aired  before  occupying.  Copperas  used  freely 
in  the  cellar  is  a  good  and  cheap  disinfectant 

Labor-saving  Contbivamcbs. — Every  good  housewife  has  neatly  arranged 
cupboard  and  dish-closet.  Every  thing  has  its  appropriate  shelf  and  division. 
But  there  are  other  thin^  for  which  provision  should  be  made.  A  pile  of 
books  is  sometimes  seen  in  one  part  of  the  dining-room,  a  few  newspapers  in 
another,  and  a  pair  of  shoes  in  a  third.  The  inside  of  a  closet  is  sometimes 
a  mass  of  confusion — "a  place  for  every  thing,"  and  every  thing  thrown 
promiscuously  into  it  Half  a  dozen  garments  are  hung  upon  one  nail,  to 
crowd  each  other  out  of  shape ;  others  are  thrown  upon  the  floor  amid  heaps 
of  boots  and  shoes.  And  so  on  to  the  end  of  the  chapter  of  careless  and  slov- 
enly disorder.  There  is  no  excuse  for  such  carelessness,  and  no  satisfaction 
in  such  housekeeping.  Want  of  time  is  no  excuse,  for  such  want  of  system 
and  order  is  the  cause  of  the  most  prodigal  waste  of  time.  It  is  only  neces- 
sary to  use  the  brain  a  little  to  save  the  hands.  Systematic  habits,  doing 
every  thing  well,  and  the  hundred  little  contrivances  which  will  suggest 
themselves  to  every  neat  and  ingenious  housekeeper,  will  save  time,  and 
establish  order  and  cleanliness.  Have  shelves  in  the  closet,  and  regular  rows 
of  hooks,  and  plenty  of  them;  let  one  side  be  appropriated  to  one  kind  of 
clothing,  with  a  hook  for  each  article.  If  necessary  to  preserve  the  order, 
make  a  neat  label,  and  paste  over  each  hook.  Make  shoe-pockets  (these 
pockets  are  made  of  about  two  and  a  half  yards  of  calico ;  one  yard  of  which 
makes  the  back,  to  be  tacked  to  the  door  when  done.  Split  tne  remaining 
yard  and  a  hali  in  two,  lengthwise,  and,  placing  the  strips  about  one  inch 
apart,  make,  across  the  back,  three  rows  of  pockets,  by  -stitching  first  the 
ends  of  the  strips  to  the  sides  of  the  back,  and  then  gather  the  bottom  of  each 
strip  to  fit  the  back  ;  then  separate  each  strip  into  two,  three,  or  four  pock- 
ets, according  to  tlie  use  for  which  they  are  designed,  and  fasten  by  stitching 
a  narrow  "  piping '*  of  calico,  from  top  to  bottom  of  the  back,  between  the 
pockets.  All  the  work  may  be  done  on  a  machine.  A  border  of  leather, 
stitched  on  the  edges  of  the  back,  and  a  narrow  strif)  used  instead  of  the 
calico  *' piping,"  make  whole  much  stronger)  on  the  inside  of  the  doors,  and 
never  put  any  thing  on  the  closet  floor,  where  it  will  be  trodden  upon  in 
entering  for  other  articles.  Never  stuff  any  thin^  away  out  of  sight  in  haste 
and  disorder.  Hiding  dirtiness  does  not  cure  it  Those  who  write  many 
letters  should  have  a  case,  with  **plgcon-holes"  labeled  and  arranged  alphar 
betically — a  box  for  three  or  four  letters  is  sufficient — in  which  to  keep  them, 
with  one  compartment  for  unanswered  letters.  When  the  case  becomes 
crowded,  or  at  the  end  of  the  year,  wrap  in  packages,  and  label  with  letter 
and  the  year.  Newspapers  and  magazines,  wnen  preserved,  should  be  neatly 
filed  in  order  and  laid  away,  or  sent  away  for  binding.  The  work-basket, 
which  is  in  daily  use,  is  often  a  spectacle  for  gods  and  men — ^the  very  picture 
of  confusion  and  disorder.  When  it  can  be  afforded,  one  of  the  new  ladies' 
adjustable  work-tables,  of  which  several  admirable  styles  are  made  and  widely 
advertised,  will  be  found  a  great  convenience,  especially  where  there  are 
children — whose  little  fingers  delight  in  tumbling  tne  contents  of  the  basket 
If  a  basket  is  used,  it  should  be  divided  into  compartments.  A  circular  bas- 
ket, with  divisions  about  the  edge  for  smaller  articles,  and  larger  spaces  in 
the  center,  is  convenient,  and  easily  kept  in  order.  All  these,  and  hundreds 
of  other  devices  like  them,  are  labor-savers,  which  relieve  housekeeping  of  a 
large  share  of  its  burdens.  And  a  calculation  of  the  time  spent  every  year 
in  hunting  through  closets  for  lost  overshoes  or  slippers,  or  in  cleaning  up 
the  scattered  items  in  the  sitting-room  when  company  is  coming  in,  ana 
searching  for  missing  letters  among  a  miscellaneous  pile  thrown  into  a 
drawer,  will  give  a  startling  result,  and  convey  some  {^equate  idea  of  the 
real  money  and  time- value  of  that  love  of  neatness  and  order  which  is  one 
of  the  cardinal  virtues  in  women. 


444  HOUSEKEEPERS  ALPHABET. 

housekeeper's  alphabet. 

Apples — Keep  in  dry  place,  as  cool  as  possible  without  freezing. 
Brooms — Hang  in  the  cellar-way  to  keep  soft  and  pliant. 
€r.\nberries — Keep  under  water,  in  cellar;  change  water  monthly. 
Dish  of  hot  water  set  in  oven  prevents  cakes,  etc.,  from  scorching. 
Economize  time,  health,  and  means,  and  you  will  never  beg. 
Flour — Keep  cool,  dry,  and  securely  covered. 

Olass— Clean  with  a  quart  of  water  mixed  with  table-spoon  of  v^monia. 
Herbs— Gather  when  beginning  to  blossom ;  keep  in  paper  sacks. 
Ink  Stains — Wet  with  spirits  turpentine;  after  three  hours,  rubir^ll. 
Jars — To  prevent,  coax  **  husband  "  to  buy  our  Cook-Book. 
Keep  an  account  of  all  supplies,  with  cost  and  date  when  purchased. 
LoTE  lightens  labor. 

Money — Count  carefully  when  you  receive  change. 
Nutmegs — Prick  with  a  pin,  ana  if  good,  oil  will  run  out. 
Orange  and  Lemon  Peel^Dry,  pound,  and  keep  in  corked  bottles. 
Parsnips — Keep  in  ground  until  spring. 
Quicksilver  and  white  of  an  egg  destroys  bedbugs. 
Rice — Select  large,  with  a  clear,  fresh  look ;  old  rice  may  have  insects. 
SuQAR^For  general  family  use,  the  granulated  is  best. 
Tea — Equal  parts  of  Japan  and  green  are  as  sood  as  English  breakfast. 
Use  a  cement  made  of  ashes,  salt,  and  water  for  cracks  in  stove. 
Variety  is  the  best  culinary  spice. 
Watch  your  back  yard  for  dirt  and  bones. 
Xantippe  was  a  scold.    Do  n't  imitate  her. 
Youth  is  best  preserved  by  a  cheerful  temper. 
Zinc-lined  sinks  are  better  than  wooden  ones. 

<&  regulate  the  clock  by  your  husband's  watch,  and  in  all  apportiomnenU 
of  time  remember  the  Giver. 


THE  DIN^ING-ROOM. 


It  may  not  be  amiss  to  give  a  page  or  two  to  the  observances  of  formal 
dinners  in  '*  society,"  lest  some  reader — who  may  hope,  if  she  becomes  the 
rare  boasekeeper  we  expect,  to  be  called  to  give  such  dinners  as  the  wife  of 
a  Congressman,  Governor,  or  even  as  mistress  of  the  White  House  itself — 
shonld  be  taken  unawares.     In  every  house,  great  or  small,  the  Dining 
Room  should  be  as  bright,  cheerful  and  cosey  as  possible,  and  at  the  table 
the  mistress  should  wear  her  brightest  smile.    If  there  are  trials  and  troubles, 
do  not  bring  them  to  the  table.    They  impair  digestion,  and  send  husband 
and  children  out  to  business  or  school,  glum  and  gloomy,  instead  of  refreshed 
and  strengthened.    The  plainest  room  may  be  made  beautiful  by  taste,  and 
the  homeliest  fare  appetizing  by  neatness  and  skill.     Little  attentions  to  the 
decoration  oc  pretty  arrangement  of  the  table  charm  the  eye  and  whet  the 
appetite,  and  make  the  home  table  powerfully  attractive.    The  every-day 
observance  of  sensible  and  simple  table  manners  ought  always  to  be  encour- 
aged, because,  in  the  long  ri.'n,  it  promotes  the  comfort  and  the  cultivation  of 
the  family,  and  takes  the  pain  of  embarrassment  out  of  state  occasions. 
Above  all,  the  room,  the  table,  and  its  furniture  should  be  scrupulously  neat 
and  orderly.    For  formal  dinners,  a  round  table,  five  to  seven  feet  in  diam- 
eter, is  the  best  fitted  to  display  the  dinner  and  its  fine  wares ;  but  the  exten- 
sion table,  about  four  feet  wide  and  of  any  length  desired,  is  generally  used. 
At  the  round  table,  conversation  is,  of  course,  easily  made  general,  the  party 
being  small.    The  table-cloth  must  be  spotless,  and  an  under-oover  of  white 
cloth  or  baize  gives  the  linen  a  heavier  and  finer  appearance.    A  center-piece 
of  flowers  is  a  pretty  ornament  (some  even  place  upon  the  table  a  handsome 
vase  filled  with  growing  plants  in  bloom),  but  the  flowers  must  be  few  and 
rare,  and  of  delicate  odors.    Fruit  in  variety  and  tastefully  arranged  with 
green  leaves,  and  surrounded  with  choice  dessert-dishes,  is  always  attractive 
and  elegant.    It  is  also  a  pretty  custom  to  place  a  little  bouquet  by  the  side 
of  each  lady's  plate,  and  to  fold  a  bunch  of  three  or  four  flowers  in  the 
napkin  of  each  gentleman,  to  be  attached  to  the  left  lapel  of  the  coat  as  soon 
as  seats  are  taken  at  the  table.    Napkins,  which  sliould  never  be  starched, 
are  folded  and  laid  upon  the  plates,  with  a  small  piece  of  bread  or  a  cold 
roll  placed  on  the  top,  or  half  concealed  by  the  last  ifold.     Beside  each  plate 
are  placed  as  many  knives,  forks  and  spoons  as  will  be  needed  in  all  the 
courses  (unless  the  lady  prefers  to  have  them  brought  with  each  new  plate, 
which  makes  more  work  and  confusion),  and  a  glass,  to  be  filled  with  fresh 
water  just  before  dinner  is  announced.    The  plates  which  will  be  needed  are 
counted  out.    Such  as  are  to  be  filled  with  reculy-prepared  dessert-dishes  ar« 

(446) 


446  THE  DININQ-ROOM, 

filled  and  set  in  a  convenient  place.    Dishes  that  need  to  be  warm,  not  hot^ 
are  left  on  the  top  shelf  of  the  range  or  elsewhere  where  they  will  be  kept 
warm  until  needed.    When  the  soup-tureen  (with  the  soup  at  the  boiling 
point)  and  the  soup-plates  are  placed  before  the  seat  of  the  hostess,  dinner 
may  be  quietly  announced.    The  host  or  hostess  has,  of  coarse,  previously,  in^ 
dicated  to  each  gentleman  the  lady  with  whose  escort  he  is  charged,  the 
guest  of  honor,  if  a  gentleman,  escorting  the  hostess,  and  taking  a  seat  at 
her  right ;  if  a  lady,  being  escorted  by  the  host  to  a  seat  at  his  right     Each 
gentlemap  offers  the  lady  assigned  to  him  his  right  arm,  and  escorts  her  to 
a  seat  at  his  left,  paissing  her  in  front  of  him  to  her  chair  which  he  has 
gracefully  drawn  back.    The  distribution  of  seats  will  tax  the  tact  of  the 
hostess,  as  the  moment  of  waiting  to  be  assigned   to  place  Is  extremely 
Awkward.    Of  course,  all  should  have  been  decided  on  beforehand,  and  the 
places  should  be  designated  with  as  little  confusion  as  possible.    The  suc- 
cess of  the  dinner  will  depend  largely  \x\yo\x  the  grouping  of  ag^reeable  per- 
Bons.    The  host  leads  the  way  to  the  dining-room,  the  hostess  follows  last,  and 
all  guests  stand  until  she  is  seated.    (In  France,  and  at  large  dinner  parties 
in  this  country,  a  card  with  the  name  of  each  guest  is  placed  on  the  plate 
which  is  intended  for  him.)    Once  seated  the  rest  is  simple  routine.    Ease 
of  manner  of  the  host  and  hostess,  and  quiet  and  systematic  movements  in 
attendants,  who  should  be  well  trained,  alert  and  noiseless,  but  never  in  a 
hurry,  are  indispensable.    Any  betrayal  of  anxiety  or  embarrassment  on  the 
part  of  the  former,  or  blundering  by  the  latter,  is  a  wet  blanket  to  all  enjoy- 
ment. 

The  attendant  places  each  dish  in  succession  before  the  host  or  hostess 
(the  soup,  salad  and  dessert  only  being  served  by  the  hostess)  with  the  pile 
of  plates.  ESach  plate  is  supplied,  taken  by  the  attendant  on  a  small  salver, 
and  set  before  the  guest  from  the  left.  Any  second  dish  which  belongs  to 
the  course  is  presented  at  the  left  of  the  guest,  who  helps  himself.  As  a  rule 
the  lady  at  the  right  of  the  host,  or  the  oldest  lady,  should  be  served  first 
As  soon  as  any  one  has  finished,  his  plate  is  promptly  removed,  and  when 
all  are  done,  the  next  course  is  served  in  the  same  way.  Before  the  dessert 
is  brought  on,  all  crumbs  should  be  brushed  from  the  cloth.  The  finger- 
bowls,  which  are  brought  in  on  the  napkin  on  the  dessert-plate  and  set  off 
to  the  left  of  the  plate,  are  used  by  dipping  the  fingers  in  lightly  and  drying 
them  on  the  napkin.  They  should  be  half  full  of  warm  water  with  a  bit  of 
lemon  floating  in  it  When  all  have  finished  dessert,  the  hostess  gives  the 
signal  that  dinner  is  ended  by  pushing  back  her  chair,  and  the  ladies  repair 
to  the  drawing-room,  the  oldest  leading  and  the  youngest  following  last^  and 
the  gentlemen  repairing  to  the  library  or  smoking-room.  In  about  half  an 
hour,  tea  is  served  in  the  drawing-room  with  a  cake-basket  of  crackers  or 
little  cakes,  the  gentlemen  join  the  ladies,  and  after  a  little  chat  over  their 
cups,  all  are  at  liberty  to  take  leave. 

It  is,  of  course,  presupposed  that  the  host  carves,  and  carves  well.  If  he 
does  not  he  should  forego  the  pleasure  of  inviting  his  friends  to  dinner,  or  tha 
dinner  should  be  from  chops,  ribs,  or  birds  which  do  not  require  carving. 


THE  HOST  AND  HOSTESS.  447 

In  making  up  a  dinner  party,  it  is  all  important  to  know  who  will  accept ; 
and  invitations,  which  may  be  written  or  printed,  and  should  be  sent  by  mes- 
senger and  never  mailed  to  persons  in  the  same  town,  should  receive  a  prompt 
reply,  aday's  delay  being  the  extreme  limit.  The  simplest  form  of  invitation 
and  reply  is  best,  but  both  must  be  formal,  this  being  one  of  the  occasions  on 
^V'hicli  the  wings  of  genius  must  be  promptly  clipped.  Ten  minutes  beyond 
the  appointed  time,  is  the  utmost  limit  of  tardiness  admissible  in  a  guest,  and 
ten  minutes  early  are  quite  enough. 

THE  HOST  ANU   HOSTESS. 

Those  who  entertain  should  remember  it  is  vulgar  hospitality,  exceedingly 
annoying  to  guests,  to  overload  plates,  or  to  insist  on  a  second  supply.    If 
the  guest  wants  more,  he  knows  that  it  is  a  delicate  compliment  to  a  dish 
to  pass  his  plate  the  second  time.    Too  great  a  variety  of  dishes  is  also  a 
coarse  display.     A  few  cooked  to  a  nicety  and  served  with  grace,  make  the 
most  charming  dinners.    A«sensible  bill  of  fare  is  soup,  fish  with  one  vege- 
table, a  roast  with  one  or  two  vegetables  and  a  salad  and  cheese,  and  a  dessert. 
Parties  should  be  made  up  of  congenial  persons,  and  the  table  should  never 
he  crowded.    Novel  dishes  are  great  strokes  of  policy  in  dinners,  but  no  wise 
housewife  will  try  experiments  on  new  dishes  on  such  an  occasion.    The 
carver  should  serve  meat  as  he  cuts  it,  so  far  as  possible,  and  not  fill  the 
platter  with  hacked  fragments.    It  is  ill-bred  to  help  too  abundantly,  or  to 
flood  food  with  gravies,  which  are  disliked  by  many.     Above  all,  the  plate 
should  be  served  neatly.    Nothing  creates  such  disgust  as  a  plat«  bedaubed 
"with  gravy  or  scattered  food.    It  may  be  taken  for  granted  that  every  one 
-will  take  a  piece  of  breast;  and  after  that  is  served,  it  is  proper  to  ask,  "  What 
part  do  you  prefer?  "    The  wings  and  legs  should  be  placed  crisp  side  upper- 
most, the  stuffing  should  not  be  scattered,  and  the  brown  side  or  edge  of 
elice  should  be  kept  from  contact  with  vegetables  or  gravy,  so  that  its  deli- 
cacy maj'  be  preserved.    Water  should  be  poured  at  the  right  hand.    Every 
thing  else  is  served  at  the  left.     The  hostess  should  continue  eating  until  all 
guests  have  finished.    Individual  salt'<iishes  are  used  at  breakfasts,  but  not 
at  dinners, — a  cruet,  with  salt  dish  and  spoon,  at  each  end  of  the  table,  being 
preferred  as  giving  the  table  less  of  a  hotel  air.    The  salt  dishes  should  be 
neatly  filled.    Jellies  and  sauces  are  helped  on  the  dinner  plate  and  not  on 
side  dishes.    If  there  are  two  dishes  of  dessert,  the  host  may  serve  the  most 
substantial  one.    Fruit  is  served  after  puddings  and  pies,  and  cofTee  last. 
In  pouring  coffee,  the  sugar  and  cream  is  placed  in  the  cup  first.    If  milk  is 
used,  it  should  be  scalding  hot.    Some  prefer  to  make  coffee  strong,  then 
weaken  it  with  scalding  hot  milk,  and  pour  into  cups  in  which  cream  and 
sugar  have  previously  been  placed.     For  t€a  it  is  better  to  pour  first  and  then 
add  cream  and  sugar.    In  winter  plates  should  be  warmed,  not  made  hot. 

INDIVIDUAL   MANNEBS. 

Manners,  at  table  and  elsewhere,  are  made  for  the  convenience  and  com- 
fort of  men,  and  all  social  observances  have  now,  or  have  had  at  some  time, 
a  good  reason  and  sound  common  sense  behind  them.    It  must  be  remem* 


448  INDIVIDUAL  MANNERS. 

bered,  however,  that  the  source  of  all  good  manners  is  a  nice  perception  of, 
and  kind  consideration  for,  not  only  the  rights,  but  the  feelings  and  even  the 
whims  of  others.  The  customs  of  society  are  adopted  and  observed  to  en- 
able us  to  be  more  agreeable,  or  at  least  not  disagreeable,  to  friends  And 
nowhere  is  the  distinction  between  the  gentleman  and  the  boor  more  marked 
than  at  the  table.  Some  persons  are  morbidly  sensitive,  and  even  slight  im- 
proprieties create  disgust ;  and  every  true  gentleman  is  bound  to  respect  their 
sensitiveness  and  avoid  giving  pain,  whether  in  sympathy  with  the  feeling 
or  not. 

As  this  is  not  an  etiquette  book,  we  can  only  give  a  few  hints.    Onoe 
seated  at  table,  gloves  are  drawn  off  and  laid  in  the  lap  under  the  napkin, 
which  is  spread  lightly,  not  tucked  in.    Raw  oysters  are  eaten  with  a  fork ; 
soup  from  the  side  of  a  spoon  without  noise,  or  tipping  the  plate.    The  mouth 
should  not  go  to  the  food,  but  food  to  the  mouth.    Eat  without  noise  and 
with  the  lips  closed.    Friends  will  not  care  to  see  how  you  masticate  your 
food,  unless  they  are  of  a  very  investigating  turn  of  mind.    Bread  should 
be  broken,  not  cut,  and  should  be  eaten  by  morsels,  and  not  broken  into  soup 
or  gravy.    It  is  in  bad  taste. to  mix  food  on  the  plate.    Fish  must  be  eaten 
with  the  fork.     Macaroni  is  cut  and  cheese  crumbled  on  the  plate,  and 
eaten  with  a  fork.    Pastry  should  be  broken  and  eaten  with  a  fork,  never 
cut  with  a  knife.    Game  and  chicken  are  cut,  but  never  eaten  with  the  bones 
held  in  the  fingers.    Oranges  are  peeled  without  breaking  the  inner  skin, 
being  held  meantime  on  a  fork.    Pears  are  pared  while  held  by  the  stem. 
Cherry-stones,  or  other  substances  which  are  to  be  removed  from  thG  mouth, 
are  passed  to  the  napkin  held  to  the  lips,  and  then  returned  to  the  plate. 
Salt  must  be  left  on  the  side  of  the  plate,  and  never  on  the  table-cloth.    Cut 
with  the  knife,  but  never  put  it  in  the  mouth;  the  fork  must  convey  the 
food,  and  may  be  held  in  either  hand  as  convenient    (Of  course,  when  the 
old-fashioned  two-tined  fork  is  used,  it  would  be  absurd  to   practice  this 
rule. )    Food  that  can  not  be  held  with  a  fork  should  be  eaten  with  a  spoon. 
Never  help  yourself  to  butter  or  any  other  food  with  your  own  knife  or  fork. 
Never  pick  your  teeth  at  table,  or  make  any  sound  with  the  mouth  in  eating. 
Bread  eaten  with  meat  should  not  be  buttered.    Bread  and  butter  is  a  dish 
for  dessert    Eat  slowly  for  both  liealth  and  manners.    Do  not  lean  your 
arms  on  the  table,  or  sit  too  far  back,  or  lounge.    Pay  as  little  attention  as 
possible  to  accidents.    When  asked  "  what  do  you  prefer?"  name  some  pan 
at  once.    When  done,  lay  your  knife  and  fork  side  by  side  on  the  plat«,  with 
handles  to  the  right    When  you  rise   from  your  chair  leave   it  where  it 
stands.    Of  course,  loud  talking  or  boisterous  conduct  is  entirely  out  of  place 
at  table,  where  each  should  appear  at  his  best,  practicing  all  he  can  of  the 
amenities  of  life,  and  observing  all  he  knows  of  the  forms  of  good  society. 

BREAKFAST  PARTIES. 

Breakfast  parties  are  becoming  fashionable  in  cities,  because  less  formal 
and  expensive  than  dinners,  and  quite  &s  agreeable  to  guests.  The  courses, 
which  are  usually  fewer  in  number,  are  served  precisely  as  described  for  din* 


BREAKFAST  PARTIES— TABLE  OUTFIT.  449 

ners.    Oatmeal  porridge  is  a  favorite  and  healthful  first  course,  and  oranges^ 
melons,  and  all  fruits  are  delicious  breakfast  dishes.    The  variety  of  omelets 
is  also  a  great  resource,  and  hundreds  of  other  delicacies  and  substantials 
are  described  elsewhere.    But  in  breakfast— and  the  same  is  true  of  din- 
ners— ^it  is  better  to  have  a  few,  a  very  few,  dishes  delicately  and  carefully 
cooked,  than  to  attempt  more  and  have  them  less  perfect.    In  fact  the  trouble 
often  lies  in  attempting  too  many,  and  the  consequent  hurry  in  the  kitchen. 
JLt  breakfast,  the  cotfee  is  set  before  the  mistress,  with  cups  in  their  saucer* 
in  front  of  it,  in  one  or  two  rows.    The  meat  with  plates  is  set  before  the 
master.     For  an  ordinary  table  one  caster  in  the  center  is  sufficient.     Fruit 
is  served^rst;  then  oatmeal  or  cracked  wheat,  next  meat  and  vegetables,  fol- 
lowed by  hot  cakes  and  coffee.    Meats  are  covered,  and  cakes  are  brought 
in  between  two  plates.    Butter  is  put  on  in  small  pats  with  lumps  of 
ice  about  it    Honey  or  maple  syrup,  for  cakes  or  hot  biscuits,  is  served  in 
saucers.    A  breakfast-table  may  be  spread  attractively  with  a  white  cloth, 
and  a  scarlet  and  white  napkin  under  each  plate,  with  white  table-mats 
with  a  scarlet  border. 

For  evening  parties  it  is  often  less  expense  and  trouble  to  place  supper  in 
the  hands  of  a  regular  confectioner,  but  for  small  card  or  literary  parties  the 
trouble  need  not  be  great.  For  regular  reception  evenings,  ices,  cakes  and 
chocolate  are  enough. 

In  all  cases  where  no  "  help"  is  employed  it  is  better  to  have  some  one  of 
the  family  wait  upon  the  table,  the  daughters  taking  turns  in  serving,  as  the 
pleasure  of  a  meal  is  greatly  marred  by  two  or  three  persons  jumping  up 
every  now  and  then,  for  articles  needed. 

TABLE  OUTFIT. 

In  the  selection  of  table-wares,  there  is  a  wide  field  for  the  exercise  of 
taste,  and  those  whose  purses  permit,  need  not  be  at  a  loss  to  find  the  most 
elegant  and  artistic  designs.  An  admirable  table  outfit  is  an  elegant  dessert- 
set,  all  the  pieces  of  which,  except  the  plates,  may  decorate  the  table  during 
the  whole  dinner,  and  the  rest  of  white  and  guilt  china.  Some  have  table- 
ware decorated  to  match  the  colors  of  the  dining-room,  or  sets  of  different 
patterns  for  each  course,  or  harlequin  sets  in  which  each  piece  may  be  of  dif- 
ferent pattern  or  even  of  different  ware.  Chinese  and  Japanese  sets  are  also 
fashionable.  In  every  case,  ware  should  be  the  best  of  its  kind,  and  for  eco- 
nomy's sake  should  be  plain,  so  that  broken  pieces  may  be  readily  and 
cheaply  replaced.  Light  knives  and  forks,  heavy  tea-spoons,  and  thin  glasses 
for  water  are  most  elegant.  The  chairs  should  have  no  arms  to  interfere  with 
ladies'  dresses,  and  to  prevent  noise  the  legs  should  be  tipped  with  rubber. 

CLEARING  THE  TABLE. 

Gather  up  the  fragments  that  nothing  be  lost  or  wasted.  When  each 
neal  is  over,  if  you  do  not  have  a  crumb-cloth  under  the  table,  which,  when 
the  chairs  are  removed,  can  be  lifted  carefully  at  the  edges  and  the  crumbs 
shaken  into  the  center,  it  is  best  to  take  a  broom  and  sweep  the  crumbs 
£ghtly  under  the  table  until  the  dishes  and  victuals  are  removed,  then  brush 
29 


/ 


450  CLEARISO  THE  TABLE, 


on  a  dust  pan.    To  clear  the  table,  bring  in  a  dish-pan,  gather  up  all  the 
, silver,  cups  and  saucers,  butter  and  sauce  plates,  and  glassware,  carry  to  the 
kitchen,  place  tliem  in  the  sink  and  return  with  the  pan.     Scrape  the  plates 
as  clean  as  possible  and  put  in,  add  platters  and  vegetable  dishes,  saving  all 
the  remnants  of  food  that  are  to  be  kept,  on  smaller  dishes,  to  be  taken  to 
the  cellar  or  refrigerator.    To  wash  the  dishes,  have  clear  hot  water  in  the 
pan,  and  first  wash  the  silver  without  soap  or  cloth,  using  only  the  hands; 
if  any  are  greasy,  wipe  with  a  soft  paper  before  putting  in  the  water,  rinae 
in  clear  hot  water  and  wipe  off  immediately  on  a  perfectly  dry,  soft,  clean 
towel ;  in  this  way  the  silver  is  kept  bright,  and  does  not  get  scratched.     Add 
some  soap  in  the  water,  make  a  suds,  wash  the  glassware,  rinse  and  wipe 
dry.    Next  take  cups  and  saucers  and  so  on,  leaving  those  most  greasy  till 
the  last    Always  keep  a  clean  dish-cloth.    One  lady  writes,  "I  have  smelt 
a  whole  houseful  of  typhoid  fever  in  one  sour,  dirty  dish-rag."    Many  pre- 
fer the  use  of  three  dish-cloths,  one  for  the  nicest  articles,  one  for  the  greasy 
dishes,  and  one  for  the  pots  and  kettles,  keeping  each  cloth  perfectly  sweet 
and  clean,  and,  after  using  it,  washing,  rinsing,  and  hanging  to  dry  on  a 
tmall  rack  kept  for  this  purpose.    The  towel  for  wiping  dishes  may  also  dry 
here.    A  dish  mop  or  swab  for  washing  small  deep  articles  is  convenient 

Let  no  one  suppose  that  because  she  lives  in  a  small  bouse,  and  dines  on 
iiomely  fare,  that  the  general  principles  here  laid  down  do  not  apply  to  her. 
A  small  house  is  more  easily  kept  clean  than  a  palace;  taste  may  be  quite 
as  well  displayed  in  the  arrangement  of  dishes  on  a  pine  table  as  in 
grouping  the  silver  and  china  of  the  rich.  Skill  in  cooking  is  as  readily 
shown  in  a  baked  potato  or  a  johnny-cake  as  in  a  canvass-back  duck.  The 
charm  of  good  housekeeping  lies  in  a  nice  attention  to  little  things,  not  in  a 
superabundance.  A  dirty  kitchen  and  bad  cooking  have  driven  many  a  hus- 
band and  son,  and  many  a  daughter  too,  from  a  home  that  should  have  been 
a  refuge  from  temptation.  "  Bad  dinners  go  hand  in  hand  with  total  depiaT* 
ity ;  while  a  properly  fed  man  is  already  half  saved.' 


C01IB3E— SOI- 

tancjr  pieeea.  8-    Chu 

(TeFs.'*'"'  to.    Oys\ 

be  Btrvefl,  four  flecBiitere  ot 
ic  erect  era  lUid  IohbI  ■■- 


accldenlal  gaeats. 
y  pieces. 


6.    HalsiEi.  10.    Spooua. 

i.    tU([ar,  7.    Bon  lioUB  and  contectlonory,       11.    Nut  Crackers, 

*.    Cuptuilart.  8.    Frail.  ij.    BUno  Mange. 

IS.  Crj'sWJllJf'^l  Irtilto.  14.  IIitp  mliilit  bepnrtdlnirfltobe  hiindeil  round  fromliieU 


.SUMMER  BKEAKFAPT, 

FOR  10  WITH  2  llE«EKVIt  COVE 

r  the  flr«l  eoi: 


lerent  itylea,  and  whateTerel 
1.   UeloD. 
1.   BadlEh. 


_.   1  and  other  po 

[or  Ihe  olherl).   !<»■«  iiislrm-ti. 
mill:,  lea  aud  cuffee,  poiaU 


8.    Powdered  sugnr. 


s  lu  dlt- 


if  orgrRDiiUted  augar. 


Sl'MJiKEl  LUNCH. 

7.    Brawn  hread.^ 
uila.    8.    While  bruiid. 
9.    Cskii-. 

10.  Cinalcs. 

11.  Fi.iif  J- blseitit. 

.    Soft  all  ell  erntis. 
.    Frozen  peuchca  or  t 

14:\Fr.ilor«h»tclM 
15,  i  )-ou  may  ohooae. 

1?;    Green  T*«se. 
18.    Fried  Egg  pUnU 

HOW  TO  GIVE  A  DINNER 


Ajd  oral  table,  as  given  in  diagram,  appears  to  be  the  most  sociable;  and,  al- 
though  it  is  against  all  precedent,   the  host  and   hostess  should  sit  at  the 
two  sides  of  the  table  instead  of  the  two  ends,  although  in  diagram    it  is  ar- 
rajiged  for  the  two  ends.     Sitting  at  the  sides  of  the  table  the  host  and  hostess 
are  nearer  their  guests,  and  are  better  able  to  enjoy  their  society  and  to  enter- 
tain  them.    No  pains  should  be  spared  to  have  the  most  comfortable   chairs. 
Under  each  chair  should  be  placed  a  stool  or  hassock  for  ladies,  or  for  such  as 
may  require  it.    The  table  linen  should  be  nicely  laundried.      The  tiible  cloth 
should  not  overlap  the  table  so  much  as  to  be  in  the  way  of  the  guests.     If 
napkins  are  too  stiff  they  cannot  be  folded  well  nor  used  with  comfort.     Under 
the  cloth  there  should  be  a  thick  piece  of  green  baize  the  exact  size  of  the  table. 
Wlien  carrins  is  to  be  done  on  the  table  alarge  napkin  should  be  placed  before 
the  car\'er  to  be  removed  in  case  of  accidents.     It  is  also  advisable  to  have  a 
supply  of  napkins  at  hand  to  use  in  case  the  table  cloth  is  soiled  dui-ing  dinner. 
The  use  of  mats  on  the  table  is  to  be  deprecated,  as  the  thick  baize  should  pro- 
tect the  table  from  the  heat  of  the  dishes.    Tlie  better  way  is  to  put  dishes  on 
the  table  without  covers,  and  thus  avoid  a  puff  of  fast  condensing  vapor  in  the 
faces  of  the  guests.    In  first  class  dinners  tiiC  soup  tureen  is  not  placed  on  the 
table,  but  soup  is  served  from  it  from  the  sideboard.      The  soup  having  been 
dispcraed  of,  the  fish  is  brought  to  the  table,  and  sei-ved  by  host  or  hostess.     On 
the  removal  of  fish,  four  entrees  judiciously  selected,  and  each  a  complete  dish 
in  itself,  are  handed  round;  or  two  are  placed  on  the  table  one  at  each  end,  and 
the  other  two  handed  round.    When  guests  have  nearly  finished  these,  two  re^- 
lieves  or  pieces  de  resistance  are jplaced  on  the  table  one  at  each  end,  and  each 
likewise  a  complete  dish  in  itsel£    They  in  turn  give  place  to  a  couple  of  roasta 
or  roast  and  boiled,  or  poultry,  or  game,  and  two  or  more  entremets  should  be 
served  with  it.    Then  comes  the  dessert.    A  reference  to  diagrams  will  further 
illustrate  tins.     The  above  bill  of  fare  is  only  given  in  the  way  of  suggestion. 
Six  courses  may  be  made  of  it,  or  four  as  preferred.  It  is  proper  to  hand  abound 
salad  with  roasts  of  all  kinds,  or  with  plain  boiled  or  fried  fish.     If  game  or 
poultry  do  not  figure  in  the  bill  of  fare,  one  of  the  relieves  should  be  a  roast, 
and  the  entreme^  should  be  served  with  iL     Cheese  sliould   not  be  i>laced  on 
the  table,  but  handed  around  cut  in  thin  slices.    It  should  be  eaten  before  the 
entremets  prepared  as  some  fancy  dish,  or  if  served  in  natural  state,    use  Far- 
mescm  cream  or  some  first  class  cheese.     The  reason  of  the  English  custom 
of  eating  cheese  after  dessert  lies  in  the  declining  fashion  of  wine  drinking  after 
dinner.    In  France  cheese  is  always  served  with  the  dessert.    In  hot  weather  all 
drinks  should  be  cooled;  this  should  be  done  from  without,  except  water,  in 
which  a  lump  of  ice  is  not  disagreeable.    The  lady  of  the  house  should  see  tha& 
the  appearance  of  the  dessert  is  such  that  each  dish,  the  fruit  especially,  should, 
with  the  help  of  flowers  and  leaves,  be  made  into  an  elegant  ornament.     Fern 
leaves  are  well  adapted  for  this  purpose.    It  is  most  artistic  to  use,  when  prac- 
ticable, the  leaves  of  the  fruit  used  on  the  table.     Artificial  leaves  should  never 
be  employed.    No  fruits  or  confectionery,  should  appear  except  such  as  are 
fi^oodtoeat.    Canned  fruits  and  the  many  colored  productions  of  the  confec- 
tioner should  always  be  of  the  best  and  purest.    There  is  no  limit  to  the  num« 
ber  of  dishes  which  go  to  form  dessert  but  it  is  better  to  have  too  little  than  to 
have  inferior  kinds  or  damaged  fruit  on  the  table.    A  dish  of  diy  biscuit  and 

451 


^2  SOW  TO  OIVE  A  DINNER. 

one  of  oliyes  should  never  be  omitted,  bnt  the  latter  should  be  served  in  water 
and  not  in  the  liquor  they  were  preserved  in.  The  position  of  each  dish  is  im* 
portant.  These  should  be  arranged  rightly,  both  for  the  effect  and  appeaiwoe 
and  also  so  as  to  be  aooessible  to  the  guests.  The  dessert  should  be  kept  dished 
up  in  an  adjoining  room  or  if  necessary  in  warm  weather  in  a  cool  place  to  be 
brought  in  when  wanted.  Except  when  dessert  is  to  be  handed  round*  gos^is 
prefer  to  help  themselves  and  to  be  free  from  the  presence  of  waiters.  Use 
water  in  thennger  ghisses  perfumed  with  a  few  dropsof  rose  water  or  lavender. 
Coffee  as  bright  as  well  decanted  wine  is  the  proper  conclusion  of  every 
dinner.  The  plate,  the  dinner,  and  dessert  service,  the  glass^  etc.,  go  a  great 
way  towards  making  the  dinner  table  look  pretty  and  inviting.  The  most 
fashionable  dinner  service  is  of  plnin  white  with  a  small  fillet  of  gold  and  the 
^rms  or  crest  and  motto  of  the  owner  painted  on  the  flat  rim  of  the  plates  and 
djshes.  The  glass  should  also  be  engraved  with  the  same  heraidio  device. 
Dessert  service  made  entirely  of  glass  are  sometimes  used  and  has  a  pretty 
effect.  One  thing  not  to  be  forgotten  is  to  be  sure  and  have  good  bread;  if  you 
do  not,  procure  rolls  from  your  baker. 

DiSTBUCnONB  TO  WAITEBS. 

L  In  the  ^'demi-Russe*  dinner  here  given,  the  ^joints  or  dishes  are  to  be 
carved  before  placing  before  the  person  serving  them. 

2.  The  person  serving  fills  plates  according  to  the  preference  of  each  gaest. 
The  waiter  then  bands  the  plate,  and  if  vegetables  or  sauce  accompanies  the 
dish,  will  also  hand  these  to  the  guest  at  the  same  time  he  does  the  plate,  unless 
a  second  waiter  does  this. 

3.  If  waiter  is  asked  for  tea,  coffee,  or  chocolate,  he  will  furnish  these  from 
sideboard.    If  &>ked  for  water,  he  will  take  it  from  pitcher  on  table. 

4.  The  waiter  will  S(e  that  the  proper  number  of  plates  are  placed  before 
server  for  each  separate  dish  of  the  course. 

6.  Ko  plates  are  placed  on  the  table  for  this  styleof  dinner.  Only  a  napkin 
^ith  a  roll  or  square  of  bread  in  it  is  placed  where  the  plate  would  be.  Also 
two  knifes,  one  large,  one  small,  and  two  forks  and  a  spoon,  also  glass  for 
water^See  diagram.) 

6.  Furm»h  both  ends  of  the  table  alike,  and,  in  addition  to  the  servidS 
placed  for  each  guest,  furnish  a  carving  knife  and  fork,  a  fish  slice  and  prong 
Also  furnish  a  gravy  spoon  with  each  fresh  dish  placed  at  the  ends  of  the  table. 

7.  If  two  kinds  of  soup  or  in  case  where  any  two  dishes  are  to  be  served, 
place  one  at  each  end  of  the  table.  If  there  are  three  or  four  entrees,  place  the 
two  leading  ones  at  ends  of  the  table,  and  hand  around  the  others. 

8.  Always  hand  the  sauce  for  each  particular  dish  to  the  guest  partaking  of 
that  dish. 

9.  If  asked  for  the  pepper  or  anything  else  from  the  cruet  or  castor,  hand  the 
cruet  or  castor  entire  to  toe  guests. 

10.  If  asked  for  any  condynent  such  as  French  mustard,  olive,  chow-chow, 
etc. etc.,  hand  bottle,  if  in  a  bottle,  or  glass,  if  in  a  glass,  to  the  guesti  with  the 
prong  or  fork,  and  let  the  guest  serve  himself,  then  i)lace  back  where  it  was  on 
the  table. 

11.  Be  on  the  alert,  and  in  case  of  accident,  hand  your  napkin  to  the  gaest, 
and  if  neccessarv  remove  his  plate,  remedy  the  trouble  as  soon  as  possible,  lay 
down  a  mat  on  the  soiled  cloth,  and  replenish  with  knives  and  forks,  napkin, 
etc. ,  and  procure  the  gm  st  a  fresh  supply  of  what  he  was  eating. 

12.  When  you  place  dcFs^ert  on  the  table,  place  a  dessert  plate,  dessert  knife 
and  fork  also  spoon,  to  each  plate.     Remember  also  the  fin<rer  bowL 

13b  If  ice  cream  is  served,  serve  it  independent  of  the  tiead  of  the  table,  as 
his  work  is  through  with  the  first  courses.  The  usual  form  of  ice  cream  now  is 
bricks. 

14.  When  dessert  is  half  through,  hand  the  menu,  or  bill  of  fare,  to  each 
guest,  calling  his  attention  to  the  ice  cream.    Take  nis  order  and  fill  it. 

15.  If  any  guest  has  already  ordered  ice  cream,  do  not  offer  the  bill  of  fare 
to  bJTn- 

16.  If  it  is  decided  to  have  boquets,  called  a  "boutonniere^"  for  the  guests. 


HOW  TO  GIVE  A  DINNER.  463 

then  place  one  in  aglBss  or  silver  holder  by  the  plate  of  each  lady  and  genile- 
znBn,  tinlees,  as  is  eometimesthe  case,  those  for  the  gentlemen  are  plamd  on 
the  napkins  without  a  -holder. 

17.  if  salad  accompanies  any  dish — a  salad  is  always  in  order — ^hand  it 
Around  to  each  gaest 

18.  The  host  sits  at  the  head  of  the  table;  the  hostess  opposite  him  at  the 
the  other  end  of  the  table. 

19.  The  soap  is  always  placed  before  the  hostess,  and  if  the  salad  is  placed 
on  the  table,  that  is  also  jilaced  before  her,  and  any  portion  of  the  dessert  she 
may  desire  to  serve,  and  is  handed  from  her  to  the  gnests. 

20.  The  waiter  will  remove  each  person's  plnte  as  soon  as  he  has  finished. 

21.  Be  quick,  yet  do  not  appear  iu  a  hurry.  Waiters  should  not  speak  to  each 
other  unless  it  is  positively  necessary.  • 

22.  The  proper  dress  for  a  waiter  is  a  dark  dress  coat  ondtrowsers,  while  vest 
and  neck-tie.  A  waitress  should  wear  a  dark  dress  with  white  apron  and  cap. 
Both  should  wear  lit?ht  slippers  or  boots,  and  make  as  little  noise  as  poi^sible. 

23.  If  rneniis  or  bills  of  f  ire  are  used,  i)lace  one  at  each  plate. 

24.  If  you  have  to  lay  a  table  for  dinner  a  la  livsse,  the  dessert  is  alwnys 
placed  on  the  table  first,  and  should  be  placed  tastefully  around  the  center  of 
liowers.  Note  diajrram  for  demi-llusse  dinner;  the  dessert  is  placed  round  the 
edge  of  the  table,  that  is  if  the  hostess  desires  to  have  it  thus  placed.  In  a  din- 
ner a  la  Russp,  tae  joints  or  dishes  are  broujjht  in  one  at  a  time  and  carved  by 
the  host,  and  as  he  carves  each  plate,  .the  waiter  hands  it  on  a  silver  tray.  In 
the  denii-Iittsse J  the  joint?  are  carved  before  being  placed  before  the  server. 
(See  diagrams.)  In  some  dinners  the  joints  or  dishes  are  carved  and  handed 
to  the  guests  for  them  to  help  themselves.  In  this  case  each  guest  must  be  fur- 
nished with  a  plate  which  of  course  must  be  placed — with  napkin  and  roll  on 
it —  when  the  cloth  is  laid.  The  waiters  should  confer  with  the  cook  and  the 
cook  with  the  housekeeper  or  hostess,  and  have  all  these  points  settled  before- 
hand. If  there  is  a  butler,  it  devolves  on  him  to  see  all  these  points  settled  and 
to  instruct  his  as^^istants.  Sometimes  the  host  or  hostess  will  direct  each  gueet 
to  his  seat,  sometimes  the  butler  will  do  it,  and  sometimes  the  waiters. 

SITMMlfnt  BBEAKFAST  FOB  TEN.      (TWO  BE8EBVED  PLATES.) 

FinsT  Counsjc,  Meixjn — ^^Vhen  table  is  laid  (see  diat^ram)  guests  enter  and  lake 
peats.  Waiters  place  tea  and  coffee  urns  and  bring  melon.  The  gentleman 
serving  asks  each  guest  if  he  will  be  helped  t3  melon.  If  the  answer  be  yes,  wait- 
er receives  plate  from  server  and  hands  to  guest,  exchanging  plat^  and  return- 
ing empty  plate  to  sen'er,  who  places  melon  on  it  for  another  guest  and  so  on. 
As  soon  as  all  are  served,  or  have  refused  a  second  helping,  the  waiter  removes 
the  remains  of  the  melon,  and  replaces  it  with  dish  for  second  course.  The  la- 
dy at  the  head  of  the  table  asks  each  guest  to  partake  of  t«a,  coffee,  or  choco- 
late. If  any  accept,  waiter  receives  it  and  hands  to  guest.  Asking  guests  to 
take  tea  etc.,  in  first  course,  is  a  mere  matter  of  form,  as  it  is  seldom  taken 
until  second  course.  Still  the  question  must  be  asked,  and  waiter  ready  to 
serve  it. 

8xx30Ni>  CouESB — In  the  place  of  melon,  a  dish  of  fish — fried  perch,  smelts, 
trout,  or  whatever  is  selected.  Scmce  Tartare  is  a  proper  accompaniment. 
Decorate  dish  of  fish  with  shrimps  or  olives  cut  in  half,  or  with  little 
bunches  of  parsley  with  shrimp  placed  on  it.  Waiters  also  remove' 
first  set  of  dessert  plates  used  for  melon,  and  replace  with  a  size  lar- 
ger, medium  breakfast  plates.  The  waiter  then  receives  a  supply  of 
fish  from  the  person  who  serves  it,  hand  t&  the  guests,  receiving  empty  plates, 
and  helping  guests  to  what  accompaniments  they  desire.  Another  waiter  asks 
if  gnest  will  take  coffee  or  tea,  and  supplies  it  from  party  serving  it.  Potatoes 
are  handed  round  (with  either  meat  or  fish.)  If  two  kinds,  present  one  in  each 
hand  for  guest  to  help  himself. 

Thibd  Goubse — ^Young  chicken  sauced  with  cream  gravy,  surrounded  with 
potatoes  a  laneige.  Waiter  removes  fish  of  second  course,  and  replaces  with 
Tonng  chicken,  then  attends  to  wants  of  guests  as  in  second  course,  remember- 
ing to  ask  each  if  he  wiU  take  tea  or  coffee;  also  asking  each  if  he  will  take  his 


^W  HOW  TO  GIVE  A  DINNER. 

m 

tea  or  coffee  wanner.    Glean  plates  same  size  as  for  second  course,    must  be 

■applied  to  each  (meat. 

FouBTH  CouBSB — PoEched  eggs  on  toast,  or  anchovy  toast.     Waiter  removea 
chicken  aiid  replaces  it  with  di^h  of  poached  eggs,  and  tarnishes  clean    plates. 
Party  serving  asks  each  gaest  if  he  can  help  him,  and  waiters  serve  sb  in  the 
other  cases.      Lady  dispensing  tea  or  coffee  asks  gaests  if  they  will  be  helped 
to  warmer  tea  or  coffee.  If  any  one  accer>t»,  waiter  hands  clean  cap  andsanoer. 
from  the  Bideboaid  to  lady  serving  and  then  hands  it  to  the  gaest.      If  milk  ia 
asked  for  he  procures  from  sideboard  and  hands  to  the  gaest.     Waiter  also 
watches  the  gaests  and  sapplies  them  with  hot  cakes,  receiving  a  dish  of  hot 
ijones  for  that  purpose  every  five  minutes,  handing  dish  of  cakes  to  gueat  who 
'helps  himself. 

FinH  Ck>UR8B — ^Littl  e  fillets  of  porter  house  steak  with  tomatoes  a  la  mayon^ 
naiae.      Waiter  puts  on  steak  in  place  of  plate  of  poached  eggs,*  and  caters  to 
wants  of  guests  as  before.    Wliile  guests  are  eating  this  course,  the   waiters  or 
an  extra  waiter,  as  quietly  as  possible  relieve  the  table  of  the  castor,  pickles, 
sauces,  dressing  ana  butter.    But  not  till  the  last  moment  must  this  be  done, 
at  the  same  time  asking  theguests  if  they  require  more.     The  dessert  or  rather 
fruit,  sixth  course,  is  then  brought  in  and  placed  where  steak  was;  arrange 
as  quicklv  as  possible,  the  service  remaining  on  the  table  in  neat  order,  re- 
move each  guest's  plate,  aud  again  furnish  dessert  plates,     At  a   signal  from 
lady  at  head  of  ttible,  waiter  hands  around  fruit  to  guests,  each  guest  suppling 
himself,  nnlcss  the  person  before  serving  the  other  dishes  serves  this,  in  which 
case  waiter  Bui)plie3  each  as  before.    Waiter  also  sapplies  each  gnest  with  tea 
or  coffee,  and  hands  around  cake,  biscuit,  etc    At  this  course  a  finger  ^asa 
should  be  supplied  to  each  guest. 

Sixth  GouBSB — Peaches  quartered,  sweetened  or  half  frozen  or  any  fruit  de- 
cided upon.  Carry  out  the  instructions  given  in  the  fifth  course.  In  some 
breakfasts  order  is  reversed,  and  fruit  is  served  in  first  course  only.  In  this 
case  various  fruits  are  placed  on  table,  and  allowed  to  remain  till  end  of  break- 
fast so  that  guests  may  partake  at  any  time.  In  first  cl  :fls  breakfasts  fruit 
forms  the  first  and  last  course,  but  waiters  should  be  instru.ted  beforehand, 
which  plan  is  to  be  followed. 

INSTBUOnONS  TOWAITPBS. 

First,  air  breakfast  room  well.  See  that  everything  has  been  dusted.  Next 
lay  cloth — white  is  the  fashion  now — and  see  that  it  is  free  from  wrinkles  and 
creases.  See  that  all  articles  for  tablb  are  perfectly  clean.  Place  craet«,  cas- 
tors, sauces,  salts,  spoon,  sugar,  syraj),  aud  everj'tl.ing  that  will  not  hurt  to 
stand  a  while,  in  propt  r  positions  on  table.  ^See diagram. )  Then  a  few  min- 
utes before  calling  break fsu^t,  add  cake,  sw.eet  biscuit,  muffins,  etc.  Just  before 
guests  begin  to  come,  add  flowers  and  salad.  Note  position  of  tea  tray  con- 
taining tea  cups,  also  urns.  Note  also  plate  at  head,  which  will  show  yon 
what  cutlery  and  plate  to  put  near  that  plate.  ^  Place  a  glass  for  each  plate  for 
water.  Place  the  ])lates  bottom  np  with  napkin  on  the  top  of  each.  At  end  of 
table  where  dishes  are  served,  (see  diagram  for  melon,)  place  ;>late,  cutlery 
and  glasses  for  other  guests,  also  carver  and  carving  fork  and  knife  rest,  also  a 
fish  trowel,  also  a  few  reserve  plates.  In  event  of  an  accident  they  are  nandy. 
If  any  guest  require  bread,  supply  it  from  sideboard.  A  small  roll  should  be 
placed  in  each  guest's  napkin.  If  this  is  not  done,  place  two  plates  of  roUs  on 
table,  or  puss  a  dish  of  rolls.  If  any  one  requires  a  second  roll,  he  asks  for  it 
In  no  case  place  napkins  in  gla-^ses,  but  on  plates,  whether  rolls  are  in  them  or 
not.  As  soon  as  guests  are  seated,  ask  if  they  prefer  milk  or  water.  If  water, 
fill  from  the  water  jug.  If  milk,  fill  from  the  milk  pitcher.  Both  jog  and 
pitcher  are  kepton  sideboard.  -It  is  necessary  to  have  a  waiter  or  some  one  at 
head  to  see  that  all  table  a2>pointments  are  correct,  and  that  other  waiters  dis- 
charge their  duties.  It  is  also  neccessary  to  have  some  party  outside  breakfast 
room,  to  whom  inside  waiters  may  hand  removes  from  table  and  from  whom 
anything  may  be  received  for  table.  Waiters  should  be  as  auiet  as  possible  and 
always  Uioold  go  to  left  of  guest    There  ehoold  be  an  unaerBtanoing  bef(»e- 


HOW  TO  GIVE  A  DINNER.  4^5 

lumd  between  oook.  waiters  and  lady  of  the  house,  bo  that  each  may  Imow  what 
Sb  oominff  next,  ana  how  to  manage.  It  Is  the  head  waiter's  place  to  see  that  salt  ' 
Sb  dryandfree  from  lumps,  that  castors  are  in  good  condition,  and  that  oil, 
mustard,  and  salad  dressing  are  fresh,  etc.  For  further  instructions  refer  to 
diagi'am,  and  explanation  of  courses,  and  articles  on  dinners  and  breakfasts. 
It  is  best  to  place  two  or  three  extra  cups  and  saucers  in  tray  to  use  in  an  emerg- 
ency.  The  sugar,  milk  and  cream  should  be  placed  before  hostess  if  she  is  to 
dispense  them,  or  she  may  simply  dispense  tea  and  coffee,  in  which  case  the 
sngar  and  cream  should  be  passed  by  waiters,  or  put  within  reach  so  that  guests 
may  help  them»elyes.  Chocolate  will  be  served  from  sideboard,  if  a>  all,  and 
BUgar  and  cream  handed  with  it  for  those  who  wish. 

Remember  the  diagram  is  given  only  to  show  the  lay  of  table,  number  of  ; 
dishes,  also  their  nature,  but  these  may  be  changed  to  suit.  This  does  not  show 
separate  courses,  but  in  case  you  wish  to  serve  in  courses,  proceed  as  for  dinner, 
observing  the  same  rules*  Lunches  are  similar  to  dinners;  dishes  are  less  in 
number,  and  not  of  a  nature  to  require  much  carving.  It  is  usual  to  have  a 
larger  variety  of  pastries,  fruits,  and  confections  than  for  dinner.  In  fact  some 
iTmchesoojisist  of  sweets  only.  In  winter  lunch  diagram  two  spaces  are  l.ft 
(Fig.  2  and  17)  to  be  filled  in  with  anything  choice  in  the  way  of  preserved 
fruits,  fruit  jelly,  etc.  In  summer  lunch  No.  13 14,  15,  IG,  are  for  same  pur- 
pose, fruit  being  more  plentiful  then. 

From  the  others  it  is  easy  to  make  up  supper.  These  differ  so,  it  is  difficult 
to  lay  down  a  plan,  as  some  make  them  a  late  dinner,  some  dinner  and  supper. 
To  lay  supper  is  an  easy  thing.  The  pages  of  this  book  tell  how  to  provide  a 
good  supi)er  whether  for  family  or  for  party.  In  lunches  the  plan  known  as 
demi-Russe  has  been  adopted,  a  compromise  between  the  entire  Russian,  and 
the  old  fashioned  English  plan  of  placing  every  dish  upon  the  table.    The  dia- 

Sam  calls  for  two  carvers  as  servers,  one  at  head  and  one  at  foot  end  of  table, 
at  is  to  say  if  dishes  are  carved  by  per  ~ons  sitting  at  these  places.  Place  the 
dishes  before  them  whole,  tastefully  garnished.  If  dishes  are  first  carved  and 
then  placed  before  them,  they  will  simply  serve  them.    In  either  case  place 

Elates  as  shown  in  diagram,  and  as  fast  as  each  plate  is  suppUed,  let  waiter 
and  to  each  guest.  Carving  knife  and  fork  must  be  place  I  on  table  to  serve 
with,  to  Wready  in  ca>e  carving  is  imperfectly  done.  In  case  cook  or  mistress 
wishes  to  display  her  skill  in  dishing  up,  garnishing  dish,  whatever  it  may  be, 
waiter  locates  it  in  proper  place  on  table,  and  while  company  are  engaged  in 
talking,  quietly  removes  it  to  sideboard,  and  quickly  aud  deftly  carves  it,  gar- 
nishing as  well  as  time  will  allow,  then  replace  in  its  original  place.  Another 
plan  is  to  carve,  arrange  nicely  on  the  dish,  and  then  garnish  tastefully,  and 
place  before  carver  or  server.  If  tea,  coffee  of  chocolate  are  included  in  lunch, 
serve  from  sideboard.  Waiters  generally  have  less  to  do  at  lunch  than  at  din* 
ner  because  guests  are  under  less  constraint  aud  of  teaer  help  each  other. 

WHAT  ABE  PBOPEB  DISH£S    FOB    EACH  COUBSS. 

I.  Five  small  raw  oysters  f  on  the  deep  shell,  so  as  to  retain  the  liquor)  just 
before  dinner,  and  put  at  each  plate  before  the  dining  room  is  opened.  A. 
colored  doiley  may  be  put  under  them  on  each  plate.  If  oysters  are  not  in 
season,  substitute  small  round  dams.  If  weather  is  quite  warm,  let  them  rest 
on  eacn  plate  in  a  bed  of  cracked  ice.  In  either  case  quarter  of  a  lemon,  on 
each  plate.    With  clams,  red  pepper  within  reach. 

II.  After  fish,  either  patties,  bits  of  toast,  each  supporting  a  single  selected 
mushroom  and  saturated  with  brown  sauce,  or  so m  3  similar  trifle.  Whatever 
is  used,  let  but  one  be  put  on  each  plate,  and  before  the  plates  are  handed. 

in.  If  you  have  more  than  one  meat,  let  the  first  be  relatively  substantial, 
and  the  second  of  a  lighter  character.  For  instance — &  filet  of  beef  might  be 
followed  by  chicken  croquettes,  or  a  boiled  turkey,  (which  is  never  really  good 
without  oyster  sauce, )  by  mutton  chops  with  almond  paste.  Other  things,  even, 
let  a  roost  prec^e  a  boil,  but  put  the  heavier  thing  first. 

IV.  After  meats,  entrees,  such  as  croquettes,  calves'  brains,  devilled  kidneys, 
oysters,  fried  or  boiled,  etc. 

y.    With  game,  jelly;  though  true  epicures  ddn't  take  it.    The  salad  is  fre- 


46ii  HOW  TO  GIVE  A  DINNER. 

qvectly  Berved  with  the  frame,  though  for  those  who  wish  both  jelly  and  salad, 
thif>  ifl  awkward,  if  jelly  be  served. 

VI.  After  salad,  cheese,  either  one  of  medium  strength,  or  two  kinds— on© 
pun^nt,  one  mild.  The  waiter  had  best  hand  both  kinds  together  (previonBly 
cat  up)  for  tite  company  to  choose.    With  this,  hard  crackers. 

Vlf.  If  yon  elaborate  your  dessert  let  the  order  be;  paltry  or  pudding,  ices, 
fmite,  nuts,  and  raisins,  bon-bons. 

X.    Black  coffee  in  small  cups.    Sugar,  (in  lumps,)  to  be  passed  separately. 

This  is  quite  frequently  reserved  till  the  ladies  have  left  the  table  and  served 
to  them  in  the  parlor,  and  to  the  gentlemen  in  the  dining  room. 

OENKBAIi  HINTP. 

Never  let  two  kinds  of  animal  food  or  two  kinds  of  pastry  be  eaten  from  the 
ftame  plate:  make  a  fresh  course  of  each. 

Cards  on  plates,  bearing  the  names  of  the  company,  so  as  to  seat  them  with 
reference  to  congeniality,  are  very  important.  For  host  or  hostess  to 
marshal  them  after  they  are  in  the  dining  room  is  not  nearly  so  easy  as  for 
them  to  marshal  themselves  by  the  cards,  and  the  host  and  hostess  are  sure,  in 
the  confusion  of  the  moment  to  get  people  placed  exactly  as  they  did  not  in- 
tend to  have  them .  .     ,       ,         ^  .,         .1  X        i^i.-  1  J 

Cut  pieces  of  bread  about  four  mches  long,  two  wide,  and  two  thick,  and 
always  place  a  piece  beside  each  plate  in  setting  the  table. 

Finger  bowls  are  to  be  passed  after  pastry  on  plates  with  doileys  between 
the  plates  and  the  bowls.  The  plates  are  to  be  used  for  fruits  and  nuts,  if 
there  are  any.  If  none  are  handed,  the  finger  bowl  will  not  be  taken  from  the 
plate.  The  finger  bowl  should  be  filled  about  one-third,  contain  a  slice  of 
lemon,  and  in  very  warm  weather,  a  bit  of  ice. 

It  is  well  to  have  a  dish,  atoneside,independent  of  any  that  may  be  on  the 
table,  with  grapes  cut  into  small  bunches,  and  oranges  and  large  fruits  halved. 
If  fruit  decorating  the  table  is  to   be   used,     let  it  be  removed  and    prepared 

before  it  is  passed.  ^      *  i.  •  j ,  i      i. 

Avoid  cane  seat-;  in  a  dining-room.  Where  fine  fabrics  and  laces  ju^  kept  on 
them  so  long  a  time  continously  (longer  than  anywhere  else)  they  play  havoc. 

One  plate  should  be  at  each  seat.  The  raw  oysters  or  clams,  on  a  separate  plat^ 
are  placed  on  the  first  plate.  So  with  the  soup.  The  first  plate  is  exchanged 
for  the  plate  with  the  fish.  Always  have  a  stock  of  plates  m  reserve  suflacient 
for  all  the  courses  and  properly  warmed.  The  most  decorated  plates  are  best  en- 
joyed about  the  time  of  salad  or  cheese  and  at  dessert.  ^ .         ». 

It  saves  the  waiter's  time  to  start  with  at  least  two  forks,  and  two  kmves  by 
each  plate.  It  is  not  bad  to  have  three.  One  knife  should  be  of  silver,  for  the 
flsh.    Silver  knives  are,  of  course,  essential  for  fruit. 

Napkins  are  never  supposed  to  appear  a  second  time  without  washing. 
Hence  napkin  rings  are  domestic  secrets,  and  not  for  compMiy. 

Never  let  two  kinds  of  animal  food  or  two  lands  of  pastry  be  eaten  from  the 
same  plate:  make  a  fresh  course  of  each.  .^,     ,  ^         *    i.  *         ^  x  j     •*. 

Always  change  knives  and  forks,  or  spoons  with  plates.  As  before  stated,  it 
is  well  to  start  with  two  or  three  relays  of  implements  by  the  plates. 

Don't  have  over  two  vegetables  with  a  course.  Let  them  be  offered  together 
on  the  same  waiter.  At  a  large  dinner,  you  can  have  two  varieties  m  the  same 
course,  i.  e„  two  soups,  two  fish,  two  meats,  etc.,  letting  thewaiter  offer  the 
guest  a  plate  of  each  at  the  same  time,  the  guest  choosing  between  them. 

Everybody  is  always  out  of  bread:  prevent  it  if  you  can. 

One  good  waiter  is  worth  mwc/i  more  than  two  poor  ones. 

Two  hours  is  long  enough  to  serve  any  dinner  that  Ohnstians  ought  to  eat, 

three  hours  and  a  half  is  too  long.  ^^    *  v      s  u*      mi.     x.    2. 

The  host  goes  in  first  with  the  lady  whom  he  seats  at  his  right.  The  hostess 
goes  in  last  with  the  gentleman  whom  she  places  at  her  nght 

The  worst  torture  that  survives  the  inquisition  is  a  bad  formal  dpmer.  A 
worse  torture  than  any  known  to  the  inquis^on  is  any  formal  dmner  (the 
better  the  diimer,the  worse  the  torture)  inefflcxenUy  served. 


UO  W  TO  GIVE  A  DIXNER.  4b7 

Flflh  at  dinner  mtiBt  never  be  fried  or  broiled.  An  exception  mny  be  made 
in  favor  of  a  delicacy,  each  as  smelta  or  trouL 

Fresh  i)ork  and  veal  are  seldom  seen  at  the  tables  of  those  who  know  how  to 
dine  or  to  digest.  Bat  a  ham,  baked  with  sugari  is  an  very  honor- 
able companion  af  er  fish,  all  the  way  down  to  ^.ime.  It  is  ontu  an  i^coesscry, 
though,  never  the  basis  of  a  decent  dinner.  It  should  be  liandea  aroond  sUceu, 
after  the  regular  coarse  is  served. 

In  place  of  salad  some  specially  nice  vegetable,  sneh  as  asparagus,  green 
corn,  or  a  well-cooked  cauliflower  may  last  .fully  be  served  as  a  ^eparate  course. 
In  fact  there  is  much  to  be  said  in  f  .vor  of  a'way ^  perving  separately  a  vege- 
table which  does  not,  like  potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes,  bean:^,  pe:is,  etc.,  seem 
the  natural  ac<;essory  of  some  meat. 

Chesterfield's  idea  that  a  dinner  party  should  not  include  fewer  than  the 
Crraces  or  more  than  the  muses, ha<«  the  approval  of  later  generations.  Especi- 
ally commendable  is  the  rule  where  waiters  are  scant.  A  superlatively  good 
waiter  in  a  well-ordered  house  can  manipulate  eight  people.-  if  he  has  an  as- 
sistant in  the  pantry  to  prepare  everything  for  him.  If  you  ask  one  person 
more,  you'll  spoil  the  fun  of  nine,  unless  yon  get  another  waiter. 

Liast  and  not  least,  dining  rooms  are  alwa-s  too  hot. 

THE  QT7ESTI0N  OF  WINXS. 

This  is  best  answered  by  remarking  that  in  first  class — and  in  first  class  din^ 
ners,  breakfast Sj  etc.  onbjj  a  profusion  of  wines  is  admissable,  sometimes  as 
many  as  a  dozen  different  wines  being  then  served.  Tiiis  does  not  denote  ele- 
gance or  good  taste,  but  rather  a  low  taste  and  depraved  appetite,  and  is  more 
suited  to  wine  pui)pers  or  parties.  Three  to  four  wines  are  suflicient  to  give  the 
host  tiiecredit  of  having  treated  his  guests  "right  royally."  But  they  should  be 
of  the  choicest  kinds. 

Oft .-n  times  one  clioice  wine  is  made  to  do  s.Tvice  for  all  coiirses,  such  as 
clioice  claret  or  champagne. 

Many  first  class  dinners  are  given  without  any  wine,  at  either  dinner  or  des- 
sert, Otliers  again  are  strrved  ^ithuut  wiue,  but  wine  is  served  at  dessert. 
Sometimes  not  till  after  dessert.  In  which  cjlso,  either  with  or  after  dessert, 
let  it  be  a  good  champagne.  This  is  nieiitioiu'd  to  disabuse  tho  minds  of  any  who 
think  it  imperative,  that  wine  should  be  scrvect  with  all  or  any  M\ri  of  a  conrse 
of  a  dinner.  It  is  purely  a  mater  of  tasio  and  sensible  persons  or  guests  will 
make  no  comments.  Still  if  yoa  decide  to  have  wines,  let  it  be,  say  three,  and  let 
it  be  a  choice  sherry  with  tho  soup,  claret  with  first  course  after  the  fish,  and 
champagne  with  the  roa-ts. 

Should  you  decide  to  serve  a  fourth  wine,  let  it  be  a  chateau  yquem,  to  be 
served  with  an  entree. 

It  is  before  stated,  if  you  decide  to  have  one  wine  only,  and  that  a  cham- 
pagne, serve  it  just  after  the  fish. 

Many  serve  claret  during  the  entire  dinner,  it  matters  not  how  many  other 
kinds  are  served,  in  which  case  claret  is  on  the  lahle,  so  long  as  the  service  is 
on  it,  and  other  wines  are  handed  round,  or  waited  to  be  asked  for  and  then 
handed.  Some  also  do  this,  makingchainpagne  the  standard  wine.  Cham- 
pagne is  preferable  to  claret.  Wiiere  one  wine  only  is  served,  claret  is  not 
offered.  It  is  a  mistake  to  serve  a  strong,  high  spirit  wine  at  the  commeace- 
ment  of  a  dinner. 

To  many  it  will  be  well  to  remark  that,  as  a  rule  white  wines,  such  as 
Sauterne,  Rhine,  etc  are  served  with  raw  oystei-s,  when  raw  oysters,  as  tiiey 
sometimes  do,  precede  soup,  or  af  ler  the  oy  ters,  and  just  before  the  soup. 

With  soup  or  fish,  Stierry  or  Maderia  is  most  approved;  with  the  meats  cham- 
pagne, with  game,  claret  or  any  red  wine. 

Some  serve  claret  after  the  fish,  as  it  is  a  light  wine,  and  can  be  drank  instead 
of  water.    In  dessert,  let  it  be  superior    sherry,  Port,  or  Bur;,nindy,  or  some 

fine  wine. 

Sometimes  liquors,  such  as  Maraschino,  and  Caracoa  are  served  in  liquor 
glasses  with,  or  after  dessert.    Sometimes  not  served  until  after  coffee. 

From  the  foregoing  it  will  be  conceded  there  is  sufficient  license  to  admit 
of  your  pleasing  yourself  somewhat,  without  fear  of  displeasing  your  gu^^ts. 
Anfrthing  like  an  observance  of  the  foregoing  rule  will  sufQ  e. 


THE  KITCHEN. 


It  is  almost  impossible  to  give  any  directions  except  in  a  general  way  re- 
garding the  kitclien,  as  there  is  an  endless  variety  of  plans  and  arrangement. 
In  no  other  room  in  the  house  are  sunlight  and  fresh,  jiKre  air  so  indispen- 
sable as  in  the  room  where  the  most  important  work  must  be  done.  A  long, 
narrow,  dark  kitchen  is  an  abomination.  Always  furnish  the  kitchen  well 
first,  and  if  there  is  any  thing  left  to  spend  on  the  parlor,  well ;  if  not  the 
money  has  been  spent  wisely.  The  main  point  is  to  systematize  every  thing, 
grouping  such  things  as  belong  to  any  particular  kind  of  work.  For  instance, 
in  baking  do  not  go  to  the  china  closet  for  a  bowl,  across  the  kitchen  for 
the  flour,  and  to  the  farther  end  of  the  ^mntry  or  store-room  for  an  egg,  when 
they  may  all  just  a^  well  be  within  easy  reach  of  each  other.  Study  and 
contrive  to  bring  order  out  of  the  natural  chaos  of  the  kitchen,  and  the  head 
will  save  the  hands  and  feet  much  labor. 

If  kitchen  floors  are  made  of  hard  wood  and  simply  oiled  two  or  three 
times  a  year,  no  grease  si)ot  is  made  when  grease  drops  on  them,  for  it  can  be 
easily  wiped  up — carpet  or  paint  is  not  advisable.  Neither  paint  nor  paper 
the  walls,  but  once  a  year  apply  a  coat  of  the  good  old-fashioned  whitewash. 
Do  not  have  the  wood-work  painted;  the  native  wood  well  oiled  and  var* 
nished  lightly  is  much  the  best  finish.  A  wide,  roomy  dresser  is  a  great 
convenience ;  it  should  have  two  wide  closets  below  and  three  narrower  ones 
above,  with  a  row  of  drawers  at  top  of  lower  closets.  Here  should  be  kept 
all  pots  and  kettles,  sauce- pans,  waffle-irons,  kitchen  crockery,  tins,  etc.,  all 
arranged  and  grouped  together  so  as  to  be  convenient  for  use.  If  possible, 
have  good  sliding  doors,  and  at  top  and  bottom  of  same  have  a  narrow  sliding 
panel  for  a  ventilator,  which  should  be  closed  when  sweeping.  By  this  ar- 
rangement every  article  of  kitchen  ware  can  be  inclosed  from  the  dust  and 
flies.  A  well-appointed  sink  is  a  necessity  in  every  kitchen,  and  should  be 
near  both  window  and  range,  so  as  to  have  light,  and  also  be  convenient  to 
the  hot  water.  It  should  Im?  provided  with  a  "grooved"  and  movable  dish- 
drainer,  set  so  as  to  drain  into  the  sink.  Always  have  bracket  or  wall  lamps 
placed  at  each  end,  or  at  the  sides,  so  that  the  room  may  be  well  lighted  in 
the  evening.  When  possible,  a  long  table  at  the  end  of  the  sink,  and  so 
close  to  it  that  water  can  not  drip  between,  on  which  to  dress  vegetables, 
poultry,  game,  etc.,  sivves  time  and  stejis;  and  the  good  light,  whit;hisa 
necessity  in  this  part  of  the  room,  leaves  no  excuse  for  slighted  or  slovenly 
work.  Under  this  table  may  be  two  drawers,  with  compartments  in  one  for 
polishing  materials,  chamois  leather,  and  articles  needed  for  scouring  tin  and 
copper ;  and  in  the  other,  articles  for  keeping  the  stove  or  range  in  order. 

(450) 


460  THE  KITCHEN. 

Back  of  the  table  and  sink,  the  wall  should  be  ceiled  with  wood  for  three 
feet  above  them,  and  here  may  be  put  up  galvanized  iron  hooks  and  nails  on 
which  to  hang  basting-spoons,  ladles,  cooking  forks  and  spoons,  the  chop- 
ping-knife,  cake-turner,  etc.  A  set  of  drawers  close  at  hand  for  salt,  pepper, 
and  spices  is  also  convenient.  There  should  never  be  bevel,  beading,  or  mold- 
ing on  kitchen  window  or  door  frames ;  and  the  kitchen  door,  leading  to  the 
dining  room,  should  be  faced  with  rubber  and  closed  with  a  not  too  strong 
spring.  Not  less  than  three  large  windows  are  desirable  in  every  kitchen, 
which  should  be  cheerful,  pleasant,  well  ventilated,  convenient  and  clean. 

Ill  houses  of  the  old  style  there  was  either  no  pantry  at  all,  the  kitohen 
being  furnished  with  a  dresser  and  shelves,  or  it  was  merely  a  small  closet  to 
hold  the  articles  in  less  common  use.    In  modem  houses  the  pantry  is  next 
in  importance  to  the  kitchen,  and  it  should  be  so  arranged  as  to  accommo- 
date all  the  appliances  used  in  cookery,  as  well  as  the  china,  glass-ware,  cut- 
lery, and  other  articles  for  the  table,  unless  a  dresser  is  used  as  before  sug- 
gested.   In  a''ranging  a  plan  for  building,  the  pantry  should  receive  careful 
consideration,  as  next  in  importance  to  the  kitchen  ;  it  should  be  sufficiently 
roomy,  open  into  both  the  dining-room  and  the  kitchen,  and,  in  order  to 
'*  save  steps,"  should  be  as  convenient  to  the  range  or  cooking-stove  as  eir- 
cumstances  will  allow.    The  window  should  be  placed  so  as  to  give  light 
without  infringing  on  the  shelving;  the  shelves  should  be  so  arranged  as  to 
not  obstruct  the  light  from  it;  the  lower  ones  should  be  two  and  a  half  feet 
from  the  floor,  and  two  feet  or  more  in  width,  and  project  about  three  inches 
beyond  the  closets  and  drawers  below ;  and  the  part  near  the  window,  where 
there  is  no  shelving,  may  be  used  for  molding  and  preparing  pastry,  and 
such  other  work  as  may  be  most  conveniently  done  here.    Other  shelves,  or 
a  china  closet,  should  be  provided  for  the  china  and  other  table  furniture  in 
every-day  use.    The  pantry  should 'have  an  abundance  of   drawers  and 
closets,  of  which  it  is  hardly  possible  to  have  too  many — the  upper  closets 
for  the  nicer  china  and  glass,  and  the  lower  ones  to  hold  pans  and  other 
cooking  utensils  in  less  frequent  use.    The  drawers  are  for  table-linen  and 
the  many  uses  the  housekeeper  w^ill  find  for  them.    If  possible  the  window 
should  be  on  the  north  side,  but  in  any  case  it  should  have  blinds  for  shade, 
and  a  wire  gauze  or  other  screen  to  keep  out  flies. 

Use  a  cloth  to  wash  potatoes.  It  is  no  trouble  to  keep  one  for  this  purpose, 
and  it  will  save  hands  and  time.  Some  prefer  a  brush.  Tie  a  strip  of  muslin 
'11  the  end  of  around  stick,  and  use  to  grease  bread  and  cake-pans,  gem- 
irons,  etc.  Have  two  large  pockets  in  your  kitchen  apron,  and  in  one  of 
them  always  keep  a  holder.  A  piece  of  clam  or  oyster  shell  is  much  better 
than  a  knife  to  scrape  a  kettle,  should  you  be  so  unfortunate  as  to  bum  any 
thing  on  it.  If  you  use  a  copper  tea-kettle,  keep  an  old  dish  with  sour  milk 
and  a  cloth  in  it,  wash  the  kettle  with  this  every  morning,  afterward  washing 
off  with  clear  wpter,  and  it  will  always  look  bright  and  new.  Cut  a  very 
ripe  tomato  and  rub  over  a  kitchen  table  to  remove  grease.  The  juice  will 
also  remove  stains  from  and  whiten  the  hands. 

xf  you  use  oil,  buy  the  best  kerosene.    To  test  it,  place  a  small  quantity 


THE  KITCHEN.  461 

in  a  tea-cup,  and  if  it  does  not  easily  ignite  when  brought  into  contact  with 
a  lighted  taper  or  match,  it  i3  good ;  poor  oil  will  ignite  instantly.  Keep 
oil  in  a  ten-gallon  can,  with  a  faucet  at  the  lower  part,  so  as  to  draw  off  into 
a  smaller  can  or  lamp-filler ;  set  the  large  can  in  a  cool,  dark  place ;  keep  all 
the  articles  used  for  cleaning,  filling,  and  trimmiug  lamps  by  themselves. 
For  these  purposes  provide  an  old  waiter  (to  hold  the  things),  a  lamp-filler, 
pair  of  scissors  or  a  lamp-trimmer,  box  of  wicks,  soap,  washing  soda,  and 
several  soft  cloths  and  towels,  also  a  wire  hairpin  with  which  to  keep  open 
the  vent  in  the  burner.  When  lamps  need  an  extra  cleaning,  add  one  tablo- 
8i)0on  soda  to  a  quart  of  water,  being  careful  that  none  of  the  bronze  ur 
gilding  comes  in  contact  with  the  soda  The  wick  should  touch  the  bottom 
of  the  lamp  and  be  trimmed  square  across.  When  the  wick  becomes  too 
short  to  carry  up  the  kerosene,  and  if  you  have  not  timeto  put  in  a  new 
wick,  a  piece  of  cotton  rag  pinned  on  below  will  prove  a  good  feeder.  When 
the  burners  of  lamps  become  gummy  and  prevent  the  wicks  moving  freely, 
boil  them  up  in  suds  over  the  fire  a  short  time,  and  they  will  become  entirely 
clean  and  work  well.  Lamps  may  become  incrusted  inside  with  settlings 
from  the  oil,  and  ordinary  washing  will  not  remove  it.  Take  soap-suds  and 
fill  ^e  lamp  about  one-third  full,  then  put  in  a  little  sharp  sand,  and  shake 
vigorously.  A  few  minutes  will  remove  every  particle  of  settlings.  Always 
fill  the  lamps  every  day  and  in  the  day-time ;  never  fill  a  lamp  after  dark 
near  a  lighted  lamp.  When  lighting  a  lamp  turn  the  wick  up  slowly  so  that 
the  chimney  is  gradually  heated.  When  taking  a  lamp  from  a  warm  room 
into  a  cold  one,  first  turn  down  the  wick ;  do  not  fill  too  full,  as  the  heat  ex- 
pands the  oil  and  drives  it  out  making  the  lamp  dirty  and  dangerous.  Never 
light  or  burn  an  almost  empty  lamp,  as  the  empty  space  is  nearly  always 
filled  with  a  very  explosive  gas.  Before  putting  out  a  lamp  turn  it  down 
until  the  wick  is  below  the  top  of  tube ;  as  if  left  above  it  the  oil  gradually 
works  out  through  the  wick  and  runs  down  over  the  burner  and  lamp.  Turn 
the  fiame  down  low,  and  wave  a  fan,  book,  or  paper  across  the  top  of  the 
chimney.  Blowing  down  a  chimney  is  very  dangerous  when  a  lamp  is  nearly 
empty  and  turned  up  high.  Never  start  a  fire  with  the  oil.  Buy  the  best 
lamp  chimneys  by  the  dozen.  The  best  are  cheapest,  and  it  is  convenient  to 
have  fresh  ones  on  hand  when  one  is  broken  at  an  inopportune  time.  A  piece 
of  sponge  fastened  on  the  end  of  a  stick  or  wire  is  the  best  thing  with  which 
to  clean  lamp  chimneys.  Or,  hold  them  over  the  nose  of  the  tea-kettle  when 
the  kettle  is  boiling  furiously.  One  or  two  repetitions  of  this  process  will  make 
them  beautifully  clear.    Of  course  they  must  be  wiped  upon  a  clean  cloth. 

Fill  new  tin  pans  with  boiling  water  (having  a  little  soda  in  it),  let  stand 
on  a  warm  part  of  the  range  for  a  while  wash  in  strong  soap-suds,  rinse,  and 
dry  well.  Scouring  tins  very  often  with  whiting  or  ashes  wears  them  out ; 
if  properly  taken. care  of,  washed  in  suds  and  thoroughly  dried,  they  will 
not  need  scouring. 

Boil  ashes  or  a  bunch  of  hay  or  grass  in  a  new  iron  pot  before  cooking  in 
it;  scour  well  with  soap  and  sand,  then  fill  with  clean  water,  and  boil  one  or 
two  hours.    To  remove  the  taste  of  wood,  first  scald  the  ve&el  well  with 


462  THE  KITCHEN. 

boiling  water,  letting  the  water  remain  in  it  till  cold;  then  dissolve 
8aI-8oda  or  soda,  (two  pounds  to  a  barrel  of  water)  in  lukewarm  water, 
adding  a  little  bit  of  lime  to  it,  and  wash  the  inside  of  the  vessel  well 
with  this  solution;  afterward  scald  it  well  with  plain  hot  water,  and 
rinse  it  with  cold  water  before  you  use  it  Knives  for  the  table  should 
never  be  used  to  cook  with ;  those  for  the  former  puri)ose  may  be  a 
cheap  plated  set  for  every-day  use,  and  should  be  kept  by  tliemselves, 
and  never  allowed  to  be  used  in  the  kitchen.  Never  place  a  range  or 
cooking  stove  opposite  a  door  or  window  if  it  can  be  avoided,  as  any 
draft  will  prevent  the  oven  from  baking  well. 

A  necessity  in  the  kitchen,  because  a  great  protection  against  clothes 
taking  fire,  is  a  large  kitchen  apron  made  full  length  with  bib,  and  sleeves 
if  wished,  the  skirt  to  button  close  around  the  dress-skirt.  A  wooden  mat 
(made  by  laying  down  six  pieces  of  lath  eleven  inches  long,  one  inch  wide, 
and  an  inoh  apart,  and  nailing  across  these,  at  right  angles,  six  other  similar 
pieces,  about  the  same  distance  apart)  is  a  great  protection  to  the  kitchen 
table,  which  should  be  of  ash.  Hot  kettles  and  pans  from  the  stove  may  be 
set  on  this  without  danger,  as  the  construction  of  the  mat  secures  a  circula- 
tion of  air  under  it. 

It  is  the  "little  foxes  that  spoil  the  vines'*  in  the  kitchen  as  well  as  else- 
where— ^the  neglect  of  little  things  causes  loss  of  time,  patience  and 
money.  In  building  fires  concentration  is  the  important  point:  1st,  the  fuel 
should  be  concentrated^  that  is,  put  together  in  a  compact  heap ;  and  2d,  in  a 
place  on  the  grating  where  the  draft  can  be  concentrated  upon  it  These  two 
points  gained  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  produce  a  brisk  fire.  When  the 
kindling,  which  must  be  dry  and  in  sufficient  quantity,  is  well  started,  the 
wood  or  coal,  as  the  case  may  be,  is  so  put  on  that  the  draft  and  flame  will 
pass  directly  through  the  fuel.  In  starting  a  fire,  all  depends  upon  having 
the  conditions  right,  and  great  loss  of  time,  and  even  patience,  is  incurred 
if  they  are  not  provided.  Always  have  wood  in  the  box.  This  can  gener- 
ally be  done  without  taking  special  time  for  it,  by  remembering  to  bring 
some  in  when  you  pass  the  wood-pile  without  any  thing  in  the  hands.  See 
that  the  wood-box  is  full  at  night,  and  the  shavings  and  kindlings  in  their 
place.  In  the  morning  empty  the  ash-pan,  or,  better  still,  clean  your  stove 
or  range  at  night.  This  can  always  be  done,  except  in  case  of  late  suppers. 
When  supper  is  ready,  and  there  is  no  further  use  for  the  fire,  open  the 
oveu  doors,  take  all  the  covers  partly  ofT  the  holes,  and  by  the  time  the 
fc'iipper  dishes  and  needful  work  in  the  preparation  for  breakfast  is  done,  if 
the  fire  has  been  properly  attended  to,  the  stove  will  be  cool  enough  to  clean 
out,  which  should  be  thoroughly  done,  removing  all  the  ashes  or  cinders 
from  every  part  of  it.  This  is  a  very  particular  work,  as  the  comers  often 
secrete  quite  an  amount  of  ashes  that  must  be  removed  if  you  would  have 
a  perfectly  cleaned  stove.  Rap  on  the  sides  of  the  pipes,  to  dislodge  the 
soot  and  ashes  that  collect  there,  sweep  all  out  with  a  long-handled  brush- 
broom  and  the  stove  is  ready  to  receive  the  shavings,  kindlings  and  wood 
for  the  fire. 


THE  KITCHEN.  463 

Where  there  is  a  large  amount  of  cooking  to  be  done,  the  ashes  shonid  be 
cleared  from  under  the  slides  of  the  ovens  as  often  as  twice  a  week  in  large 
or  small  families ;  this  will  insure  the  OTen  to  bake  wellf  and  always  the 
mme,  if  the  fire  is  properly  arranged. 

Never  on  any  account  use  coal-oil  to  make  the  fire  burn  more  quickly.  In 
making  the  fire,  as  soft  wood  bums  more  quickly  than  hard,  it  is  better  to 
have  some  with  which  to  start  it,  filling  up  with  hard  wood.  If  the  wood 
is  good  and  properly  placed  you  will  have  a  bright  clear  flame,  yielding  a 
great  amount  of  heat  which  should  be  utilized  for  cooking  purposes,  by  so 
arranging  the  draught  that  none  of  it  is  wasted.  This  can  only  be  done  by 
one  who  so  perfectly  understands  each  part  of  it  as  to  economize  in  the  use 
of  fuel.  The  fire  needs  constant  attention,  as  it  is  poor  economy  to  let  the 
fire  go  partially  out,  as  in  adding  fresh  fuel  the  heat  is  wasted  until  the 
stove  and  oven  are  again  heated  to  the  right  temperature  for  cooking. 

Fill  the  tea-kettle  full  of  water  and  place  on  the  stove,  and  if  the  fire  is 
good  it  will  boil  Soon  enough  for  use,  and  every  time  water  is*  used,  add 
cold,  so  as  to  keep  the  supply  good.  The  habit  is  almost  universal  to  put  a 
small  quantity  of  water  in  the  tea-kettle,  aiming  to  have  just  enough  for 
certain  things,  and  if  an  extra  demand  occurs  the  kettle  is  empty,  the  fire 
is  out,  and  the  delay  occasions  no  little  trouble  to  both  cook  and  mistress. 
When  water  has  been  made  to  boil  no  matter  what  is  cooking  in  it,  the  fire 
may  be  very  much  lessened,  as  but  little  heat  is  required  to  keep  it  boiling. 
Bapid  boiling  does  not  hasten  cooking,  and  the  articles  cooked  are  much 
better  when  boiled  slowly. 

For  general  use  copper  and  brass  cooking  utensils  are  not  the  best,  be- 
cause of  the  great  care  necessary  to  keep  them  clean  and  free  from  poisonous 
deposits,  a  work  that  can  ntver  he  trusted  to  servants.  Care  should  b€i  used  in 
cooking  in  tin  vessels,  as  they  are  liable  to  be  afffected  by  acids,  oils  and  salt, 
but  not  to  the  same  extent  as  copper.  For  all  ordinary  cooking  purposes,  if 
tin  vessels  are  kept  clean  and  free  from  rust,  no  injury  will  result  A  little 
whiting  or  dry  flour  may  be  used  to  polish  tin  with.  If  a  kettle  is  to  be 
used  for  cooking  fish,  heat  it  first  over  the  fire ;  if  an  odor  arises,  it  needs 
cleaning  as  above,  before  using.  If  the  same  gridiron  has  to  be  used  for 
broiling  steak,  that  has  been  used  for  fish,  in  addition  to  cleaning  it  as  above, 
heat  it  over  the  fire,  rub  well  with  brown  paper,  then  with  an  onion.  In 
washing  tin  ware  use  soft  water  and  soap,  and  wash  well,  rinse  with  hot 
water,  wipe  well,  and  put  on  the  Tiearth  or  stove  to  dry  perfectly ;  once  a 
week  wash  tin-ware  in  water  in  which  a  little  sal-soda  has  been  dissolved; 
take  the  suds  for  the  pots  and  kettles  (if  not  hot  add  more  hot  water),  and 
wash  and  rinse  thoroughly  on  the  inside.  To  wash  the  outside  of  pots,  ket- 
tles and  all  iron  ware,  place  in  a  tub  or  large  dish-pan,  and  with  soap  on 
cloth,  rub  them  briskly  and  hard ;  if  necessary  scrape  with  an  iron  spoon  or 
old  knife  to  get  all  dirt  off,  rinse  in  hot  water,  wipe,  and  place  on  stove  to 
dry.  If  kept  scrupulously  clean,  oysters,  tomatoes,  and  even  some  delicacies 
that  tire  usually  cooked  in  porcelain  and  granite  ware,  may  be  cooked  nicely 
in  iiYfU. 


464  .  THE  KITCHEN. 

Enameled  ware  may  be  cleansed  by  filling  the  vessel  with  hot  water,  with 
8oda  dissolved  in  it — one  ounce  to  a  gallon ;  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes;  then 
if  the  stftin  does  not  all  come  off,  scour  with  fine  sand  or  brick  dust;  rinse 
well  with  hot  water  and  wipe  dry.  If  by  carelessness  or  accident,  while 
making  chow-chow,  or  any  thing  else,  it  becomes  burned  on  the  porcehun 
kettle,  empty  immediately,  fill  with  water,  put  in  about  pint  of  wood-ashes 
to  two  gallons  of  water,  let  it  boil  twenty  or  thirty  minutes;  clean  with  sand 
or  brick-dust  as  above,  if  it  does  not  all  come  off.  In  either  case,  if  unsuc- 
cessful the  first  time,  repeat.  To  clean  a  brown  porcelain  kettle,  boil  peeJed 
potatoes  in  it.    The  porcelain  will  be  rendered  nearly  as  white  as  when  new. 

To  clean  silver  or  plated  ware,  wash  in  clean  hot  water  or  lay  in  hot  soda 
water  a  few  minutes;  then  wipe  dry  with  a  canton  flannel  cloth,  and  polish 
with  chamois  skin.  If  silver  powder  is  used  for  cleaning  tarnished  spots, 
care  must  be  taken  to  brush  out  all  the  dust  from  the  chased  work  on  the 
plate.  In  the  daily  use  of  silver,  wash  in  clean  hot  water  and  wipe  dry 
with  a  canton  flannel  cloth.    Never  use  soap  in  washing  silver. 

Steel  knives  and  forks  are  best  cleaned  by  being  scoured  with  bath  brick, 
but  some  good  "kitchen  maids"  always  use  the  common  brick  pulverized, 
with  good  success.  Have  a  properly  made  knife-box,  with  board  extending, 
on  which  to  lay  the  knife  to  scour,  wet  a  cloth  in  hot  water  or  soft  soap  and 
water,  dip  in  the  dust  which  has  been  previously  shaved  off;  then  rub 
briskly  and  hard  until  all  spots  are  removed ;  wash  and  rinse  in  clean,  hot 
water  and  wipe  dry.  Never  put  a  knife  in  hot  fat,  as  it  destroys  the  temper, 
and  the  knife  is  useless. 

The  sink  comes  in  for  special  .notice.  Wash  it  daily  with  soap  and  water, 
rinse  with  clean  boiling  water,  always  rinsing  with  hot  water  after  pouring  sudi 
into  it.  This  can  not  be  insisted  on  too  strongly,  because  of  such  great  im- 
portance in  the  cleanliness  of  the  kitchen.  The  old  adage,  "A  time  for 
every  thing,"  applies  here.  On  Mondays  and  Thursdays,  during  summer, 
pour  hot  water,  containing  a  little  chloride  of  lime,  into  the  drains,  and 
every  Monday  in  winter.  This  will  prevent  all  unpleasant  or  unhealthy 
odors.  The  use  of  soda  in  cleansing  our  wares  greatly  diminishes  the  quan- 
tity of  soap  needed.  As  a  general  thing,  too  much  soap  is  used  in  washing 
dishes.  Many  good  housekeepers  do  not  allow  soap  used  in  washing  dish» 
at  all,  except  to  clean  tin  and  iron  ware,  dish  cloths  and  sink.  In  cleaning 
an  unpainted  kitchen  floor,  if  there  are  spots  of  grease  on  it,  put  some  soft- 
snap  (or  lye,  if  to  be  had)  in  a  tin-cup,  kept  for  the  purpose ;  place  on  the 
stove  until  boiling  hot;  then  pour  a  little  on  each  spot  and  scour  with  ashes; 
wash  the  floor  with  soft  hot  water,  rinse  well,  and,  if  the  grease  is  not  out 
the  first  time,  try  it  again  when  the  floor  needs  cleaning.  Always  remem- 
ber to  rin.se  thoroughly,  changing  the  water  when  it  becomes  too  dirty.  In 
cleaning  floors,  tables,  or  wood- work,  remember  to  rub  always  with,  and  not 
across,  the  grain  of  the  wood. 

The  breakage  of  dishes  in  some  houses  is  fearful.  There  are  very  few 
families  rich  enough  to  bear  it,  much  less  the  families  of  small  means  or  just 
a  competence.    The  mother  is  sick  or  wearied  with  the  cares  of  the  nursery, 


THE  KITCHEN.  465 

and  can  not  see  to  the  putting  away  of  the  best  china,  which  has  been  used 
because  a  friend  dined  with  them.  While  conversing  with  her  guest,  she 
hears  a  crash  in  the  kit<?hen.  It  is  with  difficult}'  she  remains  calm  until  the 
^uest  departs,  when  she  finds  a  cup  has  fallen  and  cracked  her  nice  tureen, 
and  broke  a  nick  out  of  two  or  three  saucers ;  or  several  goblets,  set  in  a  care- 
less place,  have  fallen  and  are  broken.  She  is  sick  at  heart,  for  it  was  but 
a  few  weeks  before  she  had  spent  fifteen  or  twenty  dollars  to  replace  her 
broken,  cracked,  and  nicked  dishes.  Little  comfort  does  she  get  from 
Bridget,  who  replies:  *'La,  madam,  it  was  but  a  few  of  your  dishesi,  and  sure 
I  could  not  help  it.  1  would  not  think  the  likes  of  ye  would  make  such  h 
fuss."  Every  wise  housekeeper  will  distinguish  between  carelessness  and 
accidents.  To  correct  this  evil,  and  stop  this  great  waste,  the  only  way  is  to 
have  help  understand  they  musft  replace  each  broken  or  nicked  dish  (for 
a  nick  in  a  dish  is  as  bad  as  a  break),  or  have  the  cost  of  them  deducted  from 
their  wages.  This  will  cause  two  very  valuable  results.  The  servant  will 
become  more  careful,  which  will  add  much  to  the  comfort  of  the  mistress^ 
and  will  also  form  a  habit  of  earefuljiess  that  will  fit  her  to  become  a  good 
housekeeper. 

There  is  an  old  and  true  saying,  that  *'a  woman  can  throw  out  with  a 
spoon  faster  than  a  man  can  throw  in  with  a  shovel.".  In  cooking  meats,  for 
instance,  unless  watched,  the  cook  will  throw  out  the  water  without  letting 
it  cool  to  take  ofT  the  fat,  or  scrape  the  dripping-pan  into  the  swill-pail.  This 
grease  is  useful  in  many  ways.  Bits  of  meat  are  thrown  out  which  would 
make  good  hashed  meat  or  hash ;  the  flour  is  sifted  in  a  wasteful  manner,  or 
the  bread-pan  left  with  dough  sticking  to  it;  pie-crust  is  left  and  laid  by  to 
sour,  instead  of  making  a  few  tarts  for  tea;  cake-batter  is  thrown  out  because 
but  little  is  left;  cold  puddings  are  considered  good  for  nothing,  when  often 
they  can  be  steamed  for  the  next  day,  or,  as  in  case  of  rice,  made  over  in 
other  forms;  vegetables  are  thrown  away  that  would  warm  for  breakfast 
nicely ;  dish-towels  are  thrown  down  where  mice  can  destroy  them ;  soap  is 
left  in  water  to  dissolve,  or  more  used  than  is  necessary ;  the  scrub-brush  is 
left  in  the  water,  pails  scorched  by  the  stove,  tubs  and  barrels  left  in  the  sun 
to  dry  and  fall  apart,  chamber-pails  allowed  to  rust,  tins  not  dried,  and  iron- 
ware rusted;  nice  knives  are  used  for  cooking  in  the" kitchen,  silver  spoons 
used  to  scrape  kettles,  or  forks  to  toast  bread ;  cream  is  allowed  to  mold  and 
spoil,  mustard  to  dry  in  the  pot,  and  vinegai"  to  corrode  the  casters;  tea, 
roasted  coffee,  pepper,  and  spices  to  stand  open  and  lose  their  strength  ;  the 
molasses-jug  loses  tlie  cork  and  the  flies  take  possession;  vinegar  is  drawn  in 
a  basin  and  allowed  to  stand  until  both  basin  and  vinegar  are  spoiled ;  sugar 
is  spilled  from  the  barrel,  coffee  from  the  sack,  and  tea  from  the  chest ;  dif- 
ferent sauces  are  made  too  sweet,  and  both  sauce  and  sugar  are  wasted ;  dried 
fruit  has  not  been  taken  care  of  in  season,  and  becomes  wormy;  the  vinegar 
on  pickles  loses  strength  or  leaks  out,  and  the  pickles  become  soft ;  potatoes 
in  the  cellar  grow,  and  the  sprouts  are  not  removed  until  they  become  worth- 
less; apples  decay  for  want  of  looking  over;  pork  spoils  for  want  of  salt,  and 
beef  because  the  brine  wants  scalding;  hams  become  tainted  or  filled  with 


466  THE  KITCHEN, 

vermin,  for  want  of  the  right  protection ;  dried  beef  becomes  so  hard  it  can*t 
be  cut ;  cheese  molds  and  is  eaten  by  mice  or  vermin ;  bones  are  burnt  thai 
will  make  soap;  ashes  are  thrown  out  carelessly,  endangering  the  premises, 
and  wasting  them ;  servants  leave  a  light  and  fire  burning  in  the  kitchen, 
when  they  are  out  all  the  evening ;  clothes  are  whipped  to  pieces  in  the  wind  ; 
fine  cambrics  rubbed  on  the  board,  and  laces  torn  in  starching ;  brooms  are 
never  hung  up,  and  are  soon  spoiled ;  carpets  are  swept  with  stubs  hardly  fit 
to  scrub  the  kitchen,  and  good  new  brooms  used  for  scrubbing;  towels  are 
used  in  place  of  holders,  and  good  sheets  to  iron  on,  taking  a  fresh  one  every 
week;  table  linen  is  thrown  carelessly  down,  and  is  eaten  by  mice,  or  put 
away  damp  and  is  mildewed ;  or  the  fruit-stains  are  forgotten,  and  the  stains 
washed  in;  table-cloths  and  napkins  used  as  dish-wipers;  mats  forgotten  to 
be  put  under  hot  dishes ;  t«a-pot8  melted  by  the  stove ;  water  forgotten  in 
pitchers,  and  allowed  to  freeze  in  winter;  slops  for  cows  and  pigs  never 
saved ;  china  used  to  feed  cats  and  dogs  on ;  and  in  many  other  ways  a  care- 
less or  inexperienced  housekeeper  wastes,  without  heeding,  the  hard-earned 
wages  of  her  husband.    Economy  counts  nowhere  so  well  as  in  the  kitchen. 


TsA. — Keep  tea  in  a  close  chest  or  canister. 

Bread. — Keep  bread  or  cake  in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar. 

Nutmegs. — Always  grate  nutmegs  at  the  blossom  end  first. 

Coffee. — Keep  coffee  by  itself,  and  closely  covered. 

Red  Ants. — Scatter  branches  of  sweet-fern  where  they  congregate. 

Salt  Fish  are  quickest  and  best  freshened  by  soaking  m  sour  milk. 

8tain  on  Spoons  from  boiled  egg  is  removed  by  rubbing  with  a  little  salt, 
or  washing  in  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled. 

To  Preserve  Milk. — A  spoonful  of  grated  horse-radish  will  keep  a  pan 
of  milk  sweet  for  days. 

The  Taste  of  Fish  may  be  removed  very  efibctively  from  steel  knives  and 
forks  by  rubbing  them  with  fresh  orange  or  lemon  peel.    * 

Corks. — When  corks  are  too  large  to  go  into  a  bottle,  throw  them  into  hot 
water  a  few  moments,  and  they  will  soften. 

Charred  Casks. — Water  and  salt  meat  may  be  preserved  pure  a  long  time 
if  put  up  in  casks  with  the  inside  charred. 

To  Keep  Cutlery  from  Rust. — Wipe  dry,  and  wrap^  in  coarse  brown 
paper. 

Tin  Tea-kettles.— Kerosene  oil  will  make  tin  tea-kettles  as  bright  as  new. 
Saturate  a  woolen  rag  and  rub  with  it 

To  Beat  the  Whites  of  Egos  quickly,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt  The  coolef 
the  eggs,  the  quicker  they  will  froth.    Salt  cools  and  also  freshens  them. 

Pastry. — Wash  the  upper  crust  of  pie?  with  milk  just  before  putting  them 
in  the  oven,  and  it  will  be  a  beautiful  brown. 

Corn  Starch  is  a  good  substitute  for  eggs  in  cookies  and  doughnuts.  One 
table-spoonful  of  the  starch  is  equal  to  one  egg. 

Salt  will  curdle  new  milk ;  hence,  in  preparing  milk  porridge,  gravies^ 
etc.,  the  salt  should  not  be  added  until  the  disn  is  prepared. 

Wire  Table  Ware— should  never  be  scoured;  it  will  remain  bright  if 
merely  washed  in  clean  water  with  a  little  soap  added. 

To  Make  Meats  Tender. — A  spoonful  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water  in 
which  meats  or  fowls  are  boiled  makes  them  tender. 

Oranges. — Oranges  and  lemons  keep  best  wrapped  in  soft  paper,  and  laid 
in  a  drawer.  Lemons  may  be  kept  in  cold  water,  which  should  be  changed 
twice  a  week. 

Silver  Polish.— To  one. quart  rain-water  add  two  ounces  ammonia  and 


THE  KITCHEN.  467 

three  oaiices  of  precipitated  chalk.    Put  into  a  bottle,  keep  well  corked  and 
shake  before  using. 

CsMENT  FOR  CHINA. — The  wMt^s  of  two  eg^  and  enough  quicklime  to 
form  a  thick  paste.  The  auicklime  sliould  be  hnely  powdered ;  this  makes  a 
^ood  cement  tor  mending  broken  china,  marble,  or  glass-ware. 

Lemons. — Before  using  lemons  for  any  purpose,  always  roll  them  awhile 
with  your  hand  on  a  table.  This  will  cause  them  to  yield  a  large  quantity 
of  juice. 

Covering  for  Jars. — A  good  water-proof  paper  for  covering  jars  used  in 
preserving,  etc.,  may  be  made  by  brushing  over  the  paper  with  boiled  linseed 
oil  ahd  suspending  it  over  a  line  until  dry. 

To  Remove  a  Tight  Glass  Stopper. — Apply  a  cloth  wet  in  hot  water  to 
the  neck  of  the  bottle;  or  wind  a  cord  around  once,  and  "saw"  back  and 
forth  a  few  times.    This  will  heat  and  expand  the  neck  of  the  bottle. 

To  Clean  Knives. — Cut  a  good-sized,  solid,  raw  potato  in  two;  dip  the 
flat  surface  in  powdered  brick-dust,  and  rub  the  knife-blades ;  or,  use  a  cork, 
or  a  cloth  in  same  way.    Stains  and  rust  will  disappear. 

Ground  Tea. — If  tea  be  ground  like  coffee,  or  crushed,  immediately  before 
hot  water  is  poured  upon  it,  it  will  yield  nearly  double  the  amount  of  its 
exhilarating  qualities. 

To  Freshen  Walnuts. — When  walnuts  have  been  kept  until  the  meat  ia 
too  much  dried  to  be  good,  let  them  stand  in  milk  and  water  eight  hours^ 
and  dry  them,  and  they  will  be  as  fresh  as  when  new. 

Clinkers  may  be  removed  from  grates  and  range  back,  by  throwing  half  a 
dozen  broken  oyster  shells  into  the  fire,  when  the  coal  is  aglow,  and  covering 
them  with  fresh  coal.  When  red-hot  the  clinkers  become  doughy  and  are 
easily  removed. 

A  Fire  Kindler. — Melt  together  three  pounds  resin  and  a  quart  of  tar, 
and  stir  in  as  much  saw-dust  and  pulverized  charcoal  as  possible,  spread  the 
mass  on  a  board  to  cool,  and  break  into  lumps  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Light 
one  with  a  match,  and  it  burns  for  some  time  with  a  strong  blaze. 

To  Clean  Silver. — "Indexical  Soap"  is  the  best  thing  for  the  purpose  in 
use,  not  for  every  day,  but  when  thorough  cleaning  is  required.  It  is  well, 
also,  to  keep  it  in  a  convenient  dish,  ana  rub  on  with  a  bit  of  flannel  when- 
ever a  spot  appears  on  the  silver. 

To  Clean  Brass  Kettle. — ^When  much  discolored,  scour  with  soap  and 
ashes,  then  put  in  a  half  pint  vinegar  and  a  handful  of  salt,  put  on  stove, 
let  come  to  a  boil,  take  cloth,  wash  thoroughly,  and  rinse  out  with  water. 
If  usin^  every  day,  the  salt  and  vinegar  and  rinsing  are  sufficient. 

To  Soften  Water. — Hard  water  is  rendered  very  soft  and  pure,  rivaling 
distilled  water,  by  merely  boiling  a  two-ounce  vial,  say,  in  a  kettle  of  water. 
The  carbonate  of  lime  and  many  impurities  will  be  found  adhering  to  the 
bottle.    The  water  boils  very  much  quicker  at  the  same  time. 

Rust  on  Steel  Implements  or  knives.— -Cover  the  steel  with  sweet-oil, 
robbing  it  on  well.  Let  it  remain  for  forty-eight  hours,  and  then,  using 
finely  powdered  unslaked  lime,  rub  the  steel  until  all  the  rust  has  disap- 
peared. 

To  Preserve  Lamp  Chimneys  from  Breakivg. — Place  a  cloth  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  large  pan,  fill  the  pan  with  cold  water,  and  place  new  chimney  in 
it;  cover  the  pan,  and  let  its  contents  lx>il  one  hour:  take  from  fire,  and  let 
chimney  remain  in  the  water  until  it  is  cold. 

Cement  for  Knife  Handles. — Set  handle  on  end,  and  partly  fill  cavity 
with  powdered  resin,  chopped  hair  or  tow,  chalk,  whiting,  orquicklime; 
heat  the  spike  of  the  knife  and  force  it  into  its  place.  Equal  parts  of  sul- 
phur, resin,  and  brick -dust  also  make  an  excellent  cement. 

Water  boiled  in  pilvanized  iron  becomes  poisonous,  and  cold  water  passed 
through  zinc-lined  iron  pipes  should  never  be  used  for  cooking  or  drinking. 
Hot  water  for  cooking  should  never  be  taken  from  hot-water  pipes ;  take 
from  cold-water  pipes,  and  keep  a  supply  heated  for  use  in  kettles. 


468  THE  KITCHES. 

Table  Covbb,  to  be  thrown  over  table  after  it  is  set,  is  best  made  of  calioa. 
Pink  mosquito  netting  is  handsomer,  bat  does  not  keep  off  dust  when  the 
table  is  set  for  next  meal  immediately  after  the  dishes  are  washed — the  moat 
convenient  plan  where  the  dining-room  is  not  used  for  other  purposes. 

Vienna  Lime. — Vienna  lime  and  alcohol  give  a  beautiful  polish  to  iron 
or  steel.  Select  the  soft  pieces  of  lime,  such  as  will  be  easily  crushed  by 
the  thumb  and  finger,  as  tney.are  the  most  free  from  gritty  particles.  Ap- 
ply with  a  cork,  piece  of  soft  pine  wood,  leather,  chamois,  etc. 

Hot  Alum-water  is  the  best  insect-destroyer  known.  Put  the  alum  into 
hot  water,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  all  dissolved  ;  then  ajpply  the  solution  hot 
with  a  brush  to  all  cracks,  closets,  bedsteads,  and  other  places  where* any 
insects  are  found.  Ants,  bedbugs,  cockroaches,  and  creeping  things  are  killec 
by  it,  while  it  has  no  danger  of  poisoning. 

To  Prevent  Kustino  of  Tin,  rub  fresli  lard  over  every  part  of  the  dish, 
and  then  put  in  a  hot  oven  and  heat  it  thoroughly.  Thus  treated,  any  tin- 
ware may  be  used  in  water  constantly,  and  remain  bright  and  free  from  rusv 
To  clean  tin  or  other  metallic  vessels  which  have  held  petroleum — hot  soap 
and  water. 

Cabbage  Water.— Be  careful  that  no  cabbage  watei  is  poured  down  the 
kitchen-sink,  as  the  smell  of  it — a  singularly  unpleasant  one — ^is  so  strong 
that  it  will  penetrate  all  over  the  house,  and  produce  the  suspicion  of  a  bad 
drain.  The  water  in  which  any  vegetable  has  been  boiled,  should  be  thrown 
away  out  of  doors,  in  a  distant  corner  of  the  garden,  if  possible. 

Pulverized  Charcoal— should  be  kept  in  every  house  in  a  glass  iar, 
with  a  wide  mouth,  containing  a  half  pint.  The  coal  should  be  freshly 
burned — the  best  is  not  from  the  hardest  or  the  softest  wood,  but  a  me- 
dium—pulverized finely  in  a  mortar  while  the  coals  are  yet  red.  Cork 
tight;  it  is  invaluable  in  preserving  meats  and  poultry,  and  is  sometimes 
even  given  as  a  remedy  for  indigestion. 

The  Smell  of  Onions  and  other  odors  can  be  removed  from  kettles  and 
sauce-pans.  Put  some  wood  ashes  into  the  utensil,  add  boiling  water,  and  let 
it  stand  a  short  time  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove.  Or,  if  you  have  no  wood- 
ashes,  use  potash,  soda,  or  concentrated  lye  with  water,  then  wash  in  hot 
Buds.  All  cooking  utensils  in  which  onions,  cabbage,  or  turnips  have  been 
cooked  should  be  thus  cleansed. 

Boiled  Potatoes,  to  be  at  their  best,  should  be  served  immediately  when 
done,  but  if  the  ''men  folks*'  are  late  to  dinner,  take  them  up  the  moment 
they  are  done,  wrap  closely  in  a  towel  or  cloth  and  lay  them  in  the  heater  or 
some  warm  place,  and  they  will  suffer  only  a  little  damage.  When  baked  or 
roasted  potatoes  are  done,  place  in  a  cloth,  and  sc)ueeze  gently  between  the 
hands  and  serve.  They  will  be  the  mealier  for  it.  If  not  ready  to  serve, 
roll  in  cloth  and  keep  warm  until  wanted. 

Polishing. — Flour  of  emery,  which  is  cheap  and  is  kept  at  all  drug-stores, 
is  excellent  for  polishing  every  thing  except  silver.  Common  water-lime, 
such  as  is  used  in  plastering  cisterns,  is  an  excellent  material  for  polishing 
knives,  forks,  and  tin-ware.  First  rub  tins  with  a  damp  cloth,  then  take  dry 
flour  and  rub  it  on  with  the  hands,  and  afterward  take  an  old  newspaper  and 
rub  the  tin  until  bright  Keep  in  an  old  pepper-box,  and  apply  with  a  damp 
cloth. 

Quick  Vinegar.— Fill  a  jug  with  cider,  and  turn  into  each  ^llon  of  cider 
a  pint  of  molasses  and  a  cupful  of  lively  yeast.  Have  the  jug  full  of  the 
liquid,  let  it  stand  uncorked  back  of  the  cook-stove  where  it  will  keep  warm. 
It  will  commence  fermenting  in  twenty-four  hours,  and  will  not  take  over  a 
week  to  make  splendid  sharp  vinegar.  It  must  be  drawn  off  into  another 
jug.  leaving  the  dregs,  and  kept  in  a  tight-corked  jug  or  bottles,  wliere  i^ 
will  not  freeze. 

To  Wash  Preserve  Jars.- Preserve  jars  or  bottles  should  be  carefully 
washed  as  soon  as  emptied,  taking  care  that  the  stoppers  and  covers  have 
their  share  of  attention.     It  is  well  to  put  soda  or  ammonia  into  the  jars  or 


THE  KITCHEN.  469 

1>ottIes,  fill  lip  with  water,  and  let  stand  an  hour,  putting  the  stoppers  or 
covers  into  a  bowl  to  soak  in  the  same  way.  Then  pour  out  and  scald  nicely, 
but  not  with  boiling  water,  as  that  cracks  the  polished  8urface  inside,  wipe 
dry,  set  in  the  sun  or  wind  to  air,  and  then  set  away  carefully.  t 

UOFFEE  Syrcp. — Take  half  a  pound  of  the  best  ground  coffee;  put  it  into 
a  sauce-pan  containing  three  pints  of  water,  and  ooil  it  down  to  one  pint: 
boil  the  liquor,  put  it  into  another  sauce-pan,  well  scoured,  and  boil  it  asain. 
As  it  boils  add  white  sugpar  enough  to  give  the  consistency  of  syrup;  take  it 
from  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  cool  put  in  a  bottle  and  seal.  When  traveling, 
if  you  wish  for  a  cup  of  good  coffee  put  two  tea-spoons  of  the  syrup  into  an 
orainary  cup,  and  pour  ooiling  water  upon  it,  and  it  is  ready  to  use. 

Rhubarb  Vinegar. — For  ten  gallons,  take  twenty-five  ordinary  sized  stalks 
of  rhubarb,  pound  or  crush  with  a  piece  of  wood  in  the  bottom  of  a  strong; 
tub,  add  ten  gallons  water;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours;  strain  off  the 
crushed  rhubarb,  and  add  eighteen  pounds  of  sugar  free  from  molasses,  and 
a  teacup  best  brewer's  yeast;  raise  the  temperature  to  65  or  68°,  and  put  the 
compound  into  a  twelve*gallon  cask ;  place  it  in  a  position  where  the  temper- 
ature will  not  fall  below  60°.  In  a  month  strain  it  off  from  the  grounds,  re- 
taming  it  to  the  cask  again,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  becomes  vincjgar 

Washing  Dishes. — In  washing  dishes,  in  addition  to  directions  given  in 
**  Dining  Room,"  care  must  be  taken  not  to  put  tumblers  which  have  had 
milk  in  them  into  hot  water,  as  it  drives  the  milk  into  the  ^lass,  whence  it 
can  never  be  removed.  They  should  be  first  rinsed  well  in  tepid  water. 
Tumblers  and  goblets  shoula  be  placed  in  hot  soapy  water,  dipping  the 
sides  first,  and  turning  them  rapidly,  thus  heating  the  outside  and  inside  at 
the  same  time  and  preventing  breaking ;  when  wiped,  they  should  not  be 
turned  down  until  put  away  in  a  china  closet. 

To  Keep  Table  Cloths  clean— for  a  long  time.  After  clearing  the  table, 
place  a  clean  towel  under  any  spots  that  may  have  been  made  during  dinner, 
and  rub  the  spot  with  a  fresh  clean  cloth  wet  with  clean  soap-suds,  then 
rinse  with  clean  water,  dry  with  a  clean  dry  towel,  fold  and  lay  under  a 
heavy  weight.  In  changing  table  cloths  during  the  week,  contrive  to  bring 
the  fresh  table  cloth  on  first  at  dinner.  Place  a  large  napkin  over  each  end 
of  table  cloth,  to  protect  it  from  soiling  in  the  process  of  serving  the  plates, 
removing  when  the  crumbs  are  brushed. 

Waehbivover  Coffee. — Save  all  that  is  left  each  meal,  drain  it  off  into  a  jar 
or  earthen  vessel,  and  when  there  is  enough  for  a  single  meal,  turn  it  into 
the  coffee  pot,  beat  an  e^  thoroughly  and  stir  well  into  it  on  the  stove,  and 
let  it  just  come  to  boiling,  then  take  it  oft,  pour  in  half  a  tea-cup  of  cold 
water,  and  if  your  coffee  was  good  when  first  made,  it  will  be  just  as  good 
the  second  time. 

When  a  lar^  ouantity  of  coffee  has  been  made  for  a  party,  the  grounds 
should  be  drainea  and  put  away  in  a  stone  jar;  make  conee  as  usual  except 
using  double  the  quantity.    It  will  keep  good  for  weeks. 

To  Clean  Coffee  or  Tea-pots. — Musty  coffee-pots  and  tea-pots  may  be 
cleaned  and  sweetened  by  putting  a  good  quantity  of  wood  ashes  into  them 
and  filling  up  with  cold  water.  Set  on  the  stove  to  heat  gradually  till  the- 
water  boils.  Let  it  boil  a  short  time,  then  set  aside  to  cool,  when  the  inside 
should  be  faithfully  wasiied  and  scrubbed  in  hot  .soap-suds,  using  a  small 
brush  that  every  spot  may  be  reached ;  then  scald  two  or  three  times,  and 
wipe  till  well  dried.  Pots  and  pans  or  plates  that  have  been  used  for  baking 
and  grown  rancid,  may  be  cleansed  In  the  same  way.  Put  the  plates  into  a 
pan  with  wood  ashes  and  cold  water,  and  proceed  as  above  stated.  If  no 
wood  ashes  can  be  had,  take  soda.  Pie-plates  and  baking-dishes  cleaned  after 
this  fashion  will  keep  sweet  all  the  time. 

Beans  for  Winter. — String  fresh  green  beans,  and  cut  down  the  sides  till 
within  an  inch  of  the  end,  boil  in  water  fifteen  minutes,  take  out  and  drain; 
when  cold,  pack  in  a  stone  jar,  first  putting  two  table-spoons  of  salt  in  the  bot> 
to'a,  then  a  quart  of  beans,  sprinkle  with  a  table-spoon  of  salt,  put  in  layer 


470  THE  KITCHEN. 

after  layer  in  this  way  till  the  crock  is  full,  pour  over  a  pint  (if  not  filled 
the  first  time,  beans  may  be  added  until  filled,  putting  in  no  more  water 
after  tliis  pint)  of  cold  well-water,  put  on  a  cloth  with  a  plate  and  weight, 
»et  awav  in  a  cool  place,  and  in  about  a  week  take  off  the  cloth,  wash  it  out 
in  a  little  salt  water  (there  will  be  a  scum  upon  it),  put  back  as  before,  and 
reneat  operation  at  the  end  of  another  week;  then  pack  away,  and  when 
wanted  tor  use,  take  out  the  quantity  wanted  and  soak  for  lialf  an  hour, 
put  in  pot  in  cold  water  with  a  juece  of  fresh  pork,  cook  half  an  Iiour, 
jBeason  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt  if  needed;  or  cook  without  pork,  and 
season  with  butter  and  pepper. 

Soldering  Liquid. — In  soldering  tin-ware,  especially  in  mending  old  ware, 
the  use  of  soldering  liquids  will  greatly  help.  Tliere  are  several  of  these. 
Tlie  best  is  made  as  follows:  Get  any  convenient  vial  about  half  full  of  niii- 
riati(*acid;  procure  at  the  tin-shop  some  scrai^  of  sheet  zinc;  if  you  have 
no  strong  shears,  let  the  tinsmith  cut  the  zinc  into  strips  narrow  enough  to 
enter  the  vial.  Place  the  vial  out-doors,  or  under  a  shed,  and  add  a  stnp  or 
two  of  zinc.  A  great  bubbling  or  boiling  will  take  place  as  the  zinc  dis- 
solves. As  one  piece  of  zinc  dissolves  add  another,  and  w^hen  a  piece  re- 
mains without  any  action  or  bubbling  of  the  liquid,  it  is  done.  Fit  to  the 
lower  end  of  the  cork  a  piece  of  stick  to  reach  into  the  liquid;  after  the 
liquid  is  perfectly  quiet,  cork  it.  In  soldering,  wet  the  j)lace  where  the  sol- 
der is  to  go,  with  this  li(juid;  the  drop  or  two  that  the  stick  will  take  up  is 
enough.  Do  not  get  this  liquid  on  tlie  clothing,  or  on  the  skin,  as  it  may 
irritate  it  and  make  it  feel  very  rough. 

HoRSFORD  Biscuit. — One  quart  flour,  pint  sweet  milk,  half  toa-cup  lard, 
heaping  8alt-sj)Oon  salt.  Measure  each  or  Horsford's  Prei)aration,  mixed  in 
flour,  and  sifted  twice  through  a  sieve.  Divide  the  flour  in  halves,  add  the 
salt;  with  one  hand  pour  in  the  milk  on  the  half  of  the  flour,  with  the  other 
mix  to  a  thin  paste,  then  add  the  lard  and  the  rest  of  the  flour,  mixing  it 
lightly.  The  dough  will  he  soft,  but  can  be  rolled  on  a  well-floured  board, 
and  ciit  with  a  common  biscuit-cutter,  then  prick,  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven.  Make  crust  as  above  (u.sing  two-thirds  cup  lard  or  butter 
instead  of  half-cup)  for  chicken-pie  with  oysters  (see  recipe  in  poultry);  it  Is 
enough  for  a  four-quart  pan,  whore  the  sides  only  are  lined.  Some  prefer 
not  to  cook  the  oysters,  only  boil  and  skim  liquor,  adding  oysters  raw.  Re- 
serve pint  or  pint  and  a  half  chicken-liquor  ^do  not  mix  the  oyster-licjuor 
with  that  in  the  pot,  but  pour  it  in  the  pie  by  itself )  in  the  kettle,  place  it  on 
tne  stove,  rub  together  table-spoon  butter,  two  of  flour,  season  very  highly 
with  pepper,  stir  it  in  the  boiling  chicken-liquor,  salt  to  taste,  cook  until 
there  is  no  raw  taste  to  flour,  serve  in  gravy-boat  as  dressing  for  pie. 

Drying  Corn. — Select  good  ears  of  sweet  corn,  husk,  take  off  silk  care- 
fully, but  do  not  wash;  shave  with  a  sharp  knife,  not  too  close  to  the 
cob,  into  a  large  tin  pan  or  wooden  bowl,  scrape  cob  to  get  all  the  milk 
of  corn;  when  about  three  quarts  are  cut  off,  line  a  large  dripping-pan 
"with  flour-sack  paper,  being  careful  to  have  sides  and  edges  covered,  pour 
in  corn,  si)read,  and  put  at  once  in  moderate  oven;  stir  frequently,  and 
•leave  in  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Set  a  table  out  in  the  sun,  cover 
with  a  cloth,  pour  the  corn  upon  it,  and  spread  out  evenly  and  thinly. 
Before  sunset  nring  the  corn  in  and  spread  on  a  table  in  the  house;  in 
the  morning,  heat  again  in  oven,  and  spread  in  sun  as  before.  If  direc- 
tions are  closely  followed,  the  corn  will  be  thoroughly  dried  on  the  even- 
ing of  the  second  day,  and  when  shaken  will  rattle;  store  in  paper  bag  as 
soon  as  cooled.  Prepare  in  small  quantities,  because  it  must  not  stand 
lon^  after  being  shaven,  but  should  at  once  go  into  oven  to  heat  When 
all  is  dried,  put  in  oven  for  final  heating;  place  to  cool,  pour  into  the  bag, 
tie  closely,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

Dish  Cloths,  Wipers,  Table  Linens,  etc — Roller  towels  for  the  hands 
should  be  marked  with  the  number  of  each,  and  also  with  the  whole  num- 
ber; as  1-6,  2-6,  etc.,  where  the  whole  number  is  six.    This  shows  at  once 


THE  KITCHEN.  471 

the  whole  n amber  to  be  acoonnted  for,  and  also  makes  it  easy  to  use  them 
in  rotation,  so  that  they  may  be  worn  equally.  Of  dish  cloths,  of  \vhich 
there  should  be  six — two  for  the  best  dishes,  two  for  greasy,  and  two  for  pots 
and  kettles,  the  first  two  may  be  marked,  "B-1-2  *'  and  "'B-2-2;"  the  second 
two,  "  G-1-2  "  and  *'  G-2-2 ;  "  the  third,  "  P-1-2  "  and  P-2-2."  Wiping  towels, 
of  which  there  should  be  six,  two  to  be  used  each  week,  washing  every  dav, 
may  be  marked  in  a  similar  way,  which  is  equally  good  for  napkins,  table 
cloths,  cloths  for  silver,  etc.  Never  buy  new  cloth  for  dish  cloths  or  wipers; 
buy  Stevens'  crash  (or  any  other  line*  crash)  for  towels;  when  worn  soft, 
take  for  dish-cloths  and  wipers ;  keep  whoje  for  dish  wipers,  and  cut  one 
of  a  yard  in  length  into  three,  hem  and  place  in  kitchen  for  dish-cloths;  jrou 
thus  have  one  for  pots  and  kettles,  one  for  dishes,  and  one  to  wipe  a  kniff\ 
fork  or  spoon  that  you  may  be  using  while  cooking,  for  the  wipers  should 
never  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

How  TO  KiNDLB  A  CoAL  FiRB. — Hard  coal  will  not  imite  until  it  is 
thoroughly  heated  through  and  through,  and  as  small  coal  will  not  require 
as  much  wood  to  heat  it  up  as  large,  it  is  important,  where  the  supply  of 
kindling  wood  is  limited,  that  the  pieces  of  coal  which  touch  the  wood 
should  be  small.  As  wood  in  cities  is  more  expensive  than  coal,  economy 
suggests  the  use  of  as  little  as  practicable.  The  coal,  then,  for  kindling, 
should  not  only  be  as  small  as  a  pigeon's  egg,  called  "  chestnut  coal "  by  the 
dealers,  but  to  economize  the  wood,  the  pieces  should  not  be  over  four  inches 
long,  so  that  they  can  be  laid  compactly,  and  the  heat  more  concentrated 
on  a  given  point  of  coal,  and  thus  tne  sooner  heat  it  through.  If  the  wood 
is  thus  placed,  and  is  covered  with  one  layer  of  chestnut  coal,  it  will  redden 
with  great  rapidity  and  certainty.  Now  cover  the  reddened  coal  with 
another  layer  or  two,  and  in  a  minute  or  two  put  on  the  larger  size.  Put  a 
handful  of  shavings  or  paper  in  a  grate  compactly,  then  some  splinters  of 
dry  wood,  not  larger  than  the  little  finger,  and  outside  of  that  a  layer  of 
pieces  an  inch  or  more  thick  and  three  or  four  long ;  apply  a  match  to  the 
paper,  and  while  it  is  catching  put  on  small  coal  as  above,  and  there  will 
not  be  a  failure  during  the  winter,  nor  a  growl  in  the  household,  for  the 
want  of  a  good  and  timely  fire.  To  lessen  a  coal  fire,  press  it  from  the  top, 
so  as  to  make  the  mass  more  compact,  giving  less  room  for  air.  To  revive 
it,  lay  on  small  pieces  tenderly ;  put  on  the  blower,  and  when  red,  add  larger 
pieces,  and  riddle  out  from  below.  Heaping  on  more  coal,  or  letting  out 
the  ashes  below,  will  certaily  put  out  a  low  coal  fire. 

Saubb  Kraut. — Slice  cabbage  fine  on  a  slaw-cutter;  line  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  an  oaken  barrel  or  keg  with  cabbage  leaves,  put  in  a  layer  of  the 
sliced  cabbage  about  six  inches  in  depth,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  and 
pound  with  a  wooden  beetle  until  the  cabbage  is  a  compact  mass;  add 
another  layer  of  cabbage,  etc.,  repeating  the  operation,  pounding  well  each 
layer,  until  the  barrel  is  full  to  within  six  inches  of  the  top;  cover  with 
leaves,  then  a  cloth,  next  a  board  cut  to  fit  loosely  on  the  inside  of  bar- 
rel, kept  well  down  with  a  heavy  weight.  If  the  brine  has  not  raised 
within  two  days,  add  .enough  water,  with  just  salt  enough  to  taste,  to 
cover  the  cabbage;  examine  every  two  days,  and  add  water  as  before,  until 
brine  raises  and  scum  forms,  when  lift  otf  cloth  carefully  so  that  the  scum 
may  adhere,  wash  well  in  several  cold  waters,  wring  dry  and  replace,  re- 
peating this  operation  as  the  scum  arises,  at  first  every  other  day,  and  then 
once  a  week,  until  the  aceteous  fermentation  ceases,  which  will  take  from 
three  to  six  weeks.  Up  to  this  time  keep  warm  in  the  kitchen,  then  re- 
move to  a  dry,  cool  cellar,  unless  made  early  in  the  fall,  when  it  may  be 
at  once  set  in  the  pantry  or  cellar.  One  pint  of  salt  to  a  full  barrel  of 
cabbage  is  a  good  proportion;  some  also  sprinkle  in  whole  black  pepper. 
Or,  to  keep  until  summer:  In  April  squeeze  out  of  brine,  and  pack  tightly 
with  the  hands,  in  a  stone  iar,  with  the  bottom  lightly  sprinkled  with  salt; 
make  brine  enough  to  well  cover  the  kraut  in  the  pVo(>ortion  of  a  table- 
spoon salt  to  a  ouart  of  water;  boil,  skim,  cool,  and  pour  over;  cover  with 


472 


THE  KITCHEN, 


cloth,  then  a  plate,  weight,  and  another  cloth  tied  closely  down;  keep  in 
a  cool  place,  and  it  will  be  good  in  June.  Neither  i)ound  nor  salt  the 
cabbage  too  much,  watch  closely,  and  keep  clear  from  scum  for  good  sauer 
kraut. 

Hulled  Corn. — This  old-fashioned  luxury  is  really  a  delicious  dish  when 
properly  prepared.    Take  a  six-quart  j)ail   full   of  a'sbes  (hanl  wood  ashes, 
if  possible,  as  t bey  are  stronger):  put  them  into  an  iron  kettle  with  three 
cailons  of  water;   let  thenx  boil  alH)ut  five  minutes,  then  set  off  from  the 
nre,  and  turn  in  a  pint  of  cold  watfcr  to  settle  it.    Tbe  water  should  then 
feel  a  little  slipj>ery.    Turn   olf  the   lye  and  strain;  put   it  .into  an   iron 
kettle,  and  put  in  six  quarts  of  shelle<l  corn ;  put  it  over  a  brisk  fire,  and 
let  it  boil    balf  an   hour,  skimming  and  stirring  frequent!}'  (the  outside 
akin  of  the  kernels  will  then  slip  off);   strain  on  the  lye,  and  rinse  thor- 
oughly in  several  clear  waters.     Wben  the  lye  is  thus  weakened,  turn  the 
corn  into  a  large  dish-nan,  and   turn   in  water  enough    to   cover  it;  then 
rub  thoroughly  with  the  hands,  till  the  black   chits  come   off;  rinse  and 
strain   off  till  the  water   looks  clear;   then  put  back  into  a  clean  kettle, 
with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil;  then  turn  off  water,  put 
on  again,  and  parboil  three  or  four  times  (it  will  swell   to  about  douole 
the  first  quantity);  the  last  time  boil  till  quite  soft;   it  may  be  necessary 
to  add  water  occasionally;  stir  often,  so  as  not  to  burn  at  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle;  when  quite  soft,  put  in  two  large  table-sjHx>ns  of  sidt,  and  stir 
well;  to  be  eaten  with  milk,  or  butter  and  sugar.    It  is  a  wliolesome  dish, 
and  although    there  is  tn)uble  in  preparing  it,  yet  it  is  good  enough  to 
pay  for  the  labor  and  trouble.     It  is  good   either  hot  or  cold,  and  was 
considered  by  our  grandparents  to  be  one  of   the  greatest  luxuries  of  the 
table.     Wheat  hulled  in  the  same  way  is  considered  a  great  delicacy'',  and 
a  very  beneficial  diet  for  invalids,  but  is   not  so  staple  or  nutritious  as 
Indian  corn.    Smaller  quantities  can   be   prepared  by  using  less  lye  and 
corn. 

"Water. — Pure  water  is  as  necessary  to  health  as  pure  air.  Rain-water, 
filtered  to  remove  any  foreign  matters  caught  from  the  roof  or  in  the  smoky  . 
atmosphere,  is  tlic  purest  attainable.  It  i.sa  debatable  question  whether  the 
mineral  mattern  lield  in  solution  in  hard  w^ater  are  injurious  to  health,  but 
vegetable  or  animal  matters  are  agreed  by  all  chemists  to  be  iniurious,  and, 
in  many  cases,  rank  poisons,  breeding  fatal  fevers,  and  other  violent  diseases. 
"Water  that  is  at  all  doubtful,  should  be  boiled  before  drinking,  as  the  vege- 
table and  animal  matter::  are  thus  destroyed,  and  the  mineral  deposited  on 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Wells,  even  "in  the  country,  are  very  doubtful 
sources  from  which  to  i>rocure  a  supply  of  pure  water.  In  cities  the  sources 
of  well-supply  are  almost  invariably  poisoned  by  the  numerous  cesspools, 
vaults  ana  drains  that  filter  througn  the  earth  until  they  reach  the  under- 
ground streams  of  water,  poisoning  them  as  surely  as  they  would  a  surface 
stream  or  pond.  When  it  is  remembered  that  all  water  in  wells  must  come 
first  from  the  surface,  and  that  it  dissolves  all  sorts  of  filth  as  it  passes 
Into  the  earth,  carrying  a  j^ood  deal  with  it,  particularly  if  the  soil  is  sandy 
and  porous,  it  will  be  readily  understood  that  wells  are  apt  to  furnish  impure 
water.  People  who  throw  dirty  water  or  other  slops  near  a  well,  poison  the 
wat<»r  as  surely  as  if  they  .scattered  arsenic.  Wells  should  be  covered  to  ex- 
clude all  leaves  and  vegetable  matter.  Tbe  ground  should  slope  away  from 
the  well  so  as  to  carry  away  surface  water,  and  it  sbould  l>e  located  as  far  as 
possible  from  barns  and  out-buildings  where  filtb  accumulates.  There  are 
various  good  filters  in  the  market,  but  one  may  be  easily  and  cheaply  made 
as  follows:  Take  a  large  flower  pot,  and  insert  a  sponge  in  the  hoie  in  the 
bottom,  fill  the  pot  with  alternate  layers  of  sand,  charcoal,  and  small  peb- 
bles. The  flower  pot  thus  filled  up  may  then  be  placed  on  a  jar  or  other 
convenient  vessel,  into  which  the  water  can  be  received  as  it  filters  through. 
Kever  use  hot  water  drawn  from  a  lead  pipe,  but  take  the  cold  and  heat  it  on 
the  stove. 


THE  KITCHEN.  473 

How  TO  USE  Coal  EroxoMiCALLY. — The  "  Scientific  American''  says:  There 
Is  a  ^eat  want  of  intelligence  regarding  the  burning  of  coal,  and  it  is  not  to 
be  expected  that  servants  should  know  how  to  save  it.  The  grate  or  ran^e 
is  stuned  so  full  that  the  oven-top  is  loaded  with  it,  so  the  fire  will  not  die 
out  or  need  looking  after ;  then  the  draft  is  opened,  and  the  money,  or  what 
is  the  same,  the  heat,  goes  flying  up  tfie  chimney.  With  a  little  forethought 
all  this  could  be  prevented,  and  a  ton  of  coal  made  to  last  three  months 
instead  of  one.  A  good  bright  lire  am  be  stea<]ily  maintained  with  coal, 
with  less  trouble  than  with  any  other  kind  of  fuel,  but  not  by  raking, 
poking,  and  piling  in  green  fuel  continually. 

After  breaKfast  the  fire  should  be  cleared  of  ashes,  if  there  are  any,  and 
fresh  fuel  put  on  to  fill  the  grate  moderately.  Let  the  oven  damper  be 
turned  up  so  as  to  heat  it,  and  leave  the  small  top  door  open,  more  or  less, 
according  to  the  intensity  of  heat  required.  In  this  way  air  entera  over  the 
top  of  tiie  fire,  and  maintains  a  far  better  combustion,  and  consequently 
greater  heat  than  when  the  draft-dampers  are  thrown  down.  A  wiishing 
can  be  done,  or  "ironing"  accomplished,  with  one-third  less  coal  than  is 
generally  thought  necessary  to  use. 

There  is  also  great  waste  in  throwing  away  half-burned  coal  under  the 
supposition  that  it  is  cinders.  One  who  has  experimented  with  coal  for 
twenty  years,  both  in  the  house  and  under  the  boiler,  writes; 

In  cleaning  the  grate  in  the  morning,  you  will  find  there  is  a  quantity 
of  unburned  coal,  which  has  been  externally  subjected  to  combustion.  It 
is  covered  with  ashes,  and  look.s  to  the  inexperienced  eye  like  cinder.  It  is 
often  relentlesslj'  dumped  into  the  ash-box.  The  fact,  in  many  cases^  is, 
that  the  lump  is  only  roasted  on  the  outside,  not  even  coked,  and  is  in  a 
better  condition  for  igniting  than  the  fresh  coal.  We  have  stated  that  coal 
is  a  condensed  form  or  carbon.  The  superficially  burned  lumps,  found  in 
our  grates  or  among  our  ashes,  sufficiently  prove  this.  But  take  a  lump  of 
anthracite  coal  from  the  fire,  red-hot  and  all  alive,  throw  it  into  the  water 
until  the  ashes  are  washed  from  it,  and  it  is  black  externally  and  cool.  Take 
it  out,  and  break  it  open  with  a  hammer,  and  j'ou  will  find  it  red-hot  and 
glowing  inside.  This  shows  that  time,  and  a  plentiful  supply  of  air,  are 
necessary  to  burn  coal,  and  that  large  amounts  of  what  we  call  ashes  and 
cinders  are  really  excellent  fuel. 

To  prove  this  fact,  let  any  one  carefully  sift  his  ashes,  throwing  out  the 
inevitable  slate,  which  can  be  readily  detected,  and  start  his  coal-fire  on 
wood  or  charcoal,  kindling  his  coal-fire  with  the  savings.  He  will  find  that 
he  can  get  a  good  bed  of  incandescent  coal  sooner  than  with  green  coal  on 
the  kindlings. 

Never,  whether  rich  or  poor,  suffer  cinders  or  unburned  bits  of  coal  to  be 
wasted  in  the  ash-barrel.  Measure  for  measure,  they  are  worth  more  than 
coal.  Save  them,  soak  them,  try  them.  Water  vonovates  the  coke,  and 
wet  cinders  upon  a  hot  coal-fire  will  make  it  hotter,  and  keep  it  so  longer 
than  fresh  coal.     Saving  cinders  is  not  meanness,  it  is  economy. 

Flavoring  Extracts,  Fruit-juices,  Etc — The  following  directions  for 
the  preparation  at  home  of  extracts,  etc.,  are  contributed  by  a  trustworthy 
and  experienced  dealer,  and  may  be  relied  upon.  Of  flavoring  extracts  put 
up  for  the  general  market,  almond  and  peach  are  seldom  pure,  and  are 
sometimes  even  poisonous.  The  other  kinds  are  less  liable  to  be  adulterated. 
To  prepare  vanilla,  take  one  ounce  of  fresh  vanilla  beans,  cut  fine,  and 
rub  thoroughly  with  two. ounces  granulated  sugar,  put  in  a  pint  bottle,  and 
pour  over  it  four  ounces  pure  water,  and  ten  ounces  of  ninety-five  per  cent, 
aeodorized  alcohol.  Set  in  a  warm  place,  and  shake  occasionally  for  four- 
teen days. 

To  prepare  lemon,  cut  in  small  pieces  the  rinds  of  two  lemons,  put  in  a 
four-ounce  bottle,  and  fill  with  deodorized  strong  alcohol,  set  in  a  warm 

Slace  for  a  week ;  then  put  two  drams  fresh  oil  of  lemon,  four  ounces  of 
eodorized  strong  alcohol,  and  tlie  Juice  of  half  a  lemon,  in  a  bottle  of  sui* 
£cient  size  to  hold  all ;  then  strain  m  the  tincture  of  lemon  peel. 

30 


474  THE  KITCUES, 

To  make  orange  extract,  use  the  rind  and  oil  of  orange,  as  directed  for 
lemon. 

To  make  rose  extract,  put  one  ounce  of  red  rose  leaves  in  one  pint  of  de- 
odorized alcohol,  let  stand  eight  days;  press  out  the  liquid  from  the  leaves, 
and  add  it  to  a  half  drum  of  otto  of  rosei;. 

Oils  must  be  fresh  and  pure,  or  the  extract  will  have  a  turj^entine  taste ; 
and  always  use  deodorized  alcohol. 

For  fruit  juices,  select  clean,  ripje  fruit,  press  out  juice,  and  strain  it 
through  flannel;  to  each  pint  of  juice,  ada  six  ounces  pure  granulated 
sugar;  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and  Bottle  while  iiot, 
in  two  or  four  ounce  bottles. 

Canned-fruit  juice  luay  be  used  in  the  same  way.  These  juices  are  a  per- 
fect substitute  for  brandy,  wine,  etc.,  in  all  puddings,  and  sauces,  etc 

For  gold  coloring,  take  one  ounce  turmeric  to  two  ounces  alcohol 

To  futer  water  and  alcoholic  solutions  (not  syrups),  pass  through  filtering 
paper,  folded  in  conical  form,  so  as  to  set  into  a  funnel  (a  half -pint  glass  fun- 
nel is  best).    The  paper  is  kept  at  all  drug  stores. 

The  New  "  Patent  Process  Flour.'* — ^In  all  markets  the  best  and  highest- 
priced  flour  is  now  known  as  the  Minnesota  '*New  Process.*'  A  few  years 
ago  the  process  was  invented  and  first  used  in  the  young  city  of  MinneapK>lis, 
which  now  exports  nearly  a  million  and  a  quarter  barrelis  of  flour  yearly,  and 
finds  a  market  for  it  in  every  part  of  the  United  States  and  £urope.  The 
wheat  from  which  this  fiour  is  made,  is  the  hard  spring  wheat,  raised  in  tha 
extreme  Nortk^  that  raised  south  of  Minnesota  and  Dakota  being  inferior,  and 
most  of  it  not  available  for  the  best  grades,  while  that  raised  on  the  line  of 
the  North  Pacific,  and  in  the  rich  valley  of  the  Red  River  of  the  North, 
makes  the  very  highest  grades  of  flour.  This  hard  wheat  is  first  passed 
through  rollers  and  mashed ;  then  to  the  stones,  which  are  run  at  a  low  rate 
of  speed,  and  so  dressed  that  the  grinding  is  nearly  all  done  near  the  outer 
edge  of  the  stone,  the  ** runner'*  being  set  high,  so  as  not  to  heat  the  floor, 
but  to  leave  it  in  hard,  sharp  globules.  From  this  stone  it  is  conveyed  to  a 
series  of  bolts,  where  the  bran  is  separated,  the  softer  and  finer  particles 
being  passed  through  and  put  up  as  lower  grades  of  flour,  known  as  **  All- 
Wheat  Flour."  The  coarser  particles  and  "  middlings  *'  are  separated  by  this 
process,  and  conveyed  to  the  purifiers,  where  they  are  thoroughly  cleaned  of 
all  bran  and  impurities ;  after  which,  they  go  to  the  stones  to  be  reground 
and  rebolted,  ana  thus  made  into  the  *'  New  Process  Flour."  These  miadlings 
are  mainly  from  the  outer  portion  of  the  kernel,  which  lies  immediately  below 
the  flinty  and  worthless  nusk  (which  goes  off  in  bran),  and  is  rich  in  the 
nutritious  gluten — the  nitrogenous  principle  of  wheat  which  makes  it  rank 
first  as  a  "force-producing"  food.  Before  the  introduction  of  this  process, 
the  stones  were  driven  at  a  high  rate  of  si>eed,  and  the  wheat  thoroughly 
ground  b^  the  first  run  through  the  mill,  the  flour  coming  out  quite  hot,  and 
much  of  its  strength  lost  by  the  heating.  The  comparative  rate  of  speed  may 
be  known  by  the  fact  that  only  five  bushels  are  ground  per  hour  by  the  new 
process;  while,  with  the  old,  from  fifteen  to  eighteen  would  have  been  con- 
sumed. By  the  old  process,  the  "  middlings"  made  a  second  rate  dark  fiour; 
by  ti»e  new,  it  is  transformed  into  the  best  known  to  the  trade. 

That  this  flour  is  the  most  economical  for  use,  there  is  no  doubt  among 
those  who  have  tried  it.  The  hard  spring  wheat  makes  a  much  stronger  flour 
than  any  of  the  soft  varieties  of  spring  or  winter  wheat,  because  it  contains 
a  larger  portion  of  gluten  and  less  starch;  and  a  given  quantity  will  make 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  per  cent,  more  loaves  of  bread  of  the  same  size  and 
weight  than  the  best  winter  wheat  flour.  This  fact  is  what  has  given  Minne- 
sota bakers'  grades  their  popularity.  Another  advantage  possessed  by  this 
fiour,  especially  for  family  use,  is  that  bread  from  it  does  not  become  stale 
and  dry  as  soon  as  that  made  from  winter  wheat,  but  retains  its  moisture 
and  good  table  qualities  much  longer. 

The  following  in  regard  to  the  New  Process  Flour  is  from  George  H. 


KITCHEN   UTESSILS. 


475 


Christian,  Esq.,  who  lias  spent  years  in  studying  the  best  methods  in  use  in 
this  country  and  Europe,  and*  is  the  largest  manufacturer  in  the  United 
States : 

"  In  regard  to  the  economy  of  the  New  Process  Flour,  made  from  Min- 
nesota spring  wheat,  it  is  clnime<l.  and  I  l>elics'e  ]ia.s  been  established,  that 
the  best  qualities  .will  make  forty  or  fifty  pounds  of  bread  to  the  barrel  more 
than  tlour  from  tlie  best  quality  of  winter  wheat.    This  is  explained  by  its 
8Ui>erio^  atiiuity  lor  water  which,  being  held  in  that  much  greater  quantity 
in  the  bread,  insures  its  keeping  moist  fur  a  long  time.     Perfiaps  it  might 
interest  the  scrupulous   housewife  to  know  that  the  New  Process  Flour  is 
cleaner,  all  of  the  shell  or  bran  being  taken  away  before  this  kind  of  Hour  is 
made  by  the  mill-stwies.    The  authorities  give  the  chemical  analysis  as  iM 
parts  gfuten,  50  ^wirUs  starch,  10  i>art3  dextrine,  glucose,  etc.,  5  parts  salts, 
fatty  material,  etc.,  and  15  parts  water,  for  flour  made  from  the  best  Min- 
nesota spring  wheat  by  the  new  process.    The  above  percentage  of  gluten  is 
nearly  double  tliat  of  flour  made  from  the  soft  varieties  of  wheat  (that  of 
Minnesota  is  of  the  hard).     Gluten  is  the   most   im)K)rtant  compound  of 
flour,  and  is  the  substance  which  renders  the  dough  firm,  and  gives  it  sutfl- 
cient  consistency  to  hold  the  gases,  generated  by  fermentation,  long  enough 
to  make  it  rise  well,  and  snsure  a  h^ht  palatable  bread.     It  is  well  known 
also  that  bread  from  spring  wheat  la  sweeter.    The  percentage  of  gluten 
in  New  Process  Flour  is  more  than  In  flour  made  of  the  same  wheat  by  the 
old  process." 

KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  the  i\tensils  needed  in  every  well -furnished 
kitchen.  Of  course  an  ingenious  housewife  will  make  fewer  do  excellent 
service,  but  all  these  save  time  and  labor,  and  make  the  careful  preparation 
of  food  easier.  In  buying  tinware  and  kitchen  utensils  generally,  it  is  econ- 
omy to  purchase  the  best  at  first.  The  very  best  double  plate  tinware  will 
last  a  lifetime,  while  the  poor  cheap  kiud  will  not  last  a  year.  The  low- 
priced  earthenware,  particularly  that  which  looks  like  the  substance  of  a 
common  brick  when  broken,  is  worthless.  The  solid,  strong  stoneware  costs 
perhaps  a  quarter  more,  but  it  is  worth  ten  times  as  much  as  the  other.  It 
is  also  much  better  for  milk  than  tin. 


WOODEN  WABE. 


One  bread  board. 
One  rolling  pin. 

One  small  spoon  for  stirring  pudding- 
sauce. 
Two  large  spoons. 
One  iwtato-pounder. 
One  lemon  squeezer. 
One  wash-board. 
One  mush  stick  (hard  wood). 


One  small  paddle  for  coffee. 

One  meat-board. 

One  board  upon  which  to  cut  bread, 

prepare  vegetables,  etc. 
Three  buckets  for  sugars. 
One  chopping  tray. 
Two  large  and  one  small  wash-tabs. 
One  wringer. 


EARTHEN  AND  STONE   WARE 

One  crock,   two  gallon,   for   mixing 

cake. 
Two  crocks,  one  gallon  each. 
Two  crocks,  two  quarts. 
Two  three-gallon  jars. 
Two  two-gallon  jars. 
Two  one-gallon  jars. 
Two  two-quart  jars.  I 


One  bean-pot. 
One  bowl. 

One  bowl,  four  quarts. 
Three  bowls,  one  quart. 
Three  bowls,  one  pint  each. 
One  nest  of  three  baking  dishes,  dif* 
ferent  sizes. 


476 


KITCUEN  UTENSILSi 


TIN  WARE. 


One  boiler  for  clothes,   holding  six 

gallons,  with  copper  bottom  or  all 

copper. 
One  milk  strainer. 
One  bread-pan,    holding  five  or   six 

quarts. 
One  deep   pan,    for   preserving   and 

canning  fruits. 
One  six-quart  pan. 
One  four-quart  pan. 
Two  two-quart  pans. 
Two  one-quart  pans. 
Two  dish  pans. 

Two  two-quart  (Covered  tin  pails. 
One  four-<iuart  covered  tin  pail. 
Two  tin-lined  sauce  pans  with  covers, 

holding  four  quarts  each,  for  boiling 

potatoes,  cabbages,  etc. 
Four  cups  with  handles. 
Two  pint  molds,  for  rice,  blanc-mange, 

etc. 
Four  half-pint  molds.  j 

One  skimmer  with  handle. 
Two  dippers  of  different  size. 
Two  funnels,  one  for  jugs  and  one  for 

cruets. 
One  quart  measure. 
One  pint  measure. 
Half-pint  messure. 
One  gill  measure. 
If  possible,  ^et  these  measures  broad 

and  low,  instead  of  high  and  slen- 


der, as  thej'  are  much  more  easily 

kept  clean. 
Three  .scoops  of  different  8\re, 
Four    bread- pans  for    baking.      The 

smallest  make  thtt  best-sized  loaves, 

and  will  do  for  cake  also. 
Four  jelly-cake  pans. 
Four  round  and  two  long  pie-pans. 
One   \]^  inch  deep  for  custard   and 

cocoa-nut  pies. 
One  coffee-pot. 
One  tea-pot. 
One  colander. 
One  large  bread-grater. 
One  small  nutmeg-grater. 
One  wire-sieve. 

One  hand  sieve  (quart  measure). 
One  frying-basket. 
One  egg-beater. 
One  spice-box. 
One  pepper-box. 
One  cayenne  pepper-box. 
One  i>e'pp€r-box  for  salt^ 
One  l)iscu it-cutter. 
One  potato-cutter. 
One  dozen  mufiin-ringSw 
One  soap-shaker.  » 

One  tea-kettle  with  copper  bottom  or 

all  copper. 
One  wire  spoon. 
One  tea-can nister. 
One  toasting-rack. 


IRON    WARE. 


One  pair  of  scales. 

One  pot,  holding  two  gallons,  with 
steamer  to  fit. 

One  pot,  holding  three  gallons,  with 
close-fitting  cover,  for  soup. 

One  preserving  kettle,  porcelain  lined. 

One  deep  frying-pan. 

One  small  frying-^jan. 

Two  sheet-iron  dripping-pans  of  dif- 
ferent sizes. 

One  large  turkey  pan. 

Two  sets  of  gem  pans. 

Two  spoons  with  long  handles. 


Two  spoons  with  handles  of  moder* 

ate  length. 
Two  spoons  with  wooden  handles. 
One  griddle. 
One  broiler. 
One  waffle-iron. 
One  toasting-rack. 
One  large  meat-fork. 
One  jagging-iron. 
One  can-opener. 
One  coffee-mill. 
One  chopping-knife. 
Three  fiat-irons,  two  No.  8,  and  one 

No.  6. 


KITCHEN  LUXURIES. 
Of  course  there  are  many  things  to  be  considered  in  bnying  a  kitchen 
ontfit.  The  size  of  the  family  for  which  the  cooking  is  to  be  done,  the  size 
of  the  kitchen  itself,  and  the  amount  ot  cupboard  room,  and  most  of  all 
the  purse.  It  will  often  be  easier  to  do  work  with  fewer  utensils  than  to 
have  more  than  there  is  room  to  put  away  in  proper  order,  and  an  ingenious 
or  thoughtful  housekeeper  will  often  manage  to  make  one  utensil  do  the 
work  of  three  or  four  as  used  in  more  liberally  supplied  kitchens.  ''Cii^ 
cumstances  alter  cases**  in  supplying  kitchens,  as  well  as  elsewhere. 


KITCHEN   LUXURIES. 

The  ntensila  listed  oil  previous  pages  are  moat  of  tliem  necessities  in  ony 
well-regulated  kitchen,  but  there  nre  luwiy  other"  articles  that  either  save 
labor  or  do  the  work  better  tbu»  it  can  be  done  without  their  aid.  We  give 
a  few  of  these,  with  illustrations  that  will  explain  them  more  fully  tlian  is 
possible  by  the  simple  text. 

Spiral  Eoo  BKATEJU^Tbis  1b  a  very  useJul  imple- 
ment in  the  kitchen,  cheaper  though  not  so  good  as 
the  "  Dover,"  a  cut  of  which  appears  elsewhere. 
The  Bjiiral  beater  does  the  work  well,  but  not  so 
easily  or  quickly  as  the  more  costly  machine. 

Tea-Kkttlb  Boi  LBK.— It  is  often  convenient  to  util- 
ize the  heat  of  the  tea-kettle  for  cooking,  and  a  tea-kettle  boiler  does  It  to 
perfection.  It  is  Biniply  a  long,  tapering  tin  dish,  with  a  long  handle,  large 
enough  to  Iill  tlie  opening  and  long  enough  to  reach  within  half  an  inch 
of  the  bottom.  It  may  have  a  cover  iff  its  own  or  the  cover  of  tlie  lea-ket- 
tle mav  be  used.  It  can  be  made  by  any  tinner  at  a  small  cost,  and  is  just 
the  thing  for  cooking  gruels,  custards,  etc.,  and  serves  as  a  steamer  for  pud- 
dings, brown  bread,  etc.,  for  a  small  family. 

Umbbella  Foldiwo  Rack.— This  verf 
neat  and  simple  contrivance  is  a  great 
convenience  il  placed  on  the  wall  near 
the  kitchen  stove.  When  in  use  it  pre- 
sents a  goodly  numlwrof  arms  on  which 
to  hang  articles  to  be  dried,  and  when 
not  in  use  it  closes  up  modestly  and  oc- 
cupies no  useful  space.  We  know  of 
nothing  BO  jUmple  and  useful  for  the 
pnr)iose.  It  is  made  in  the  very  best 
manner,  and  with  fair  ufiagc  will  laet  a 
life-time.  The  cut  on  the  left  represents 
the  rack  folded  witharnis  dropped  against 
the  wnll,  and  the  one  on  the  right  the 
same  spread  out  ready  for  use.  They 
are  sold  at  liouse  furnishing  stores. 

Waf/lf  Iron,— The  man  who  has  never 
eaten  walHcs  slioulil  make  haste  to  enjoy 
the  delightful  exiierience.  Once  tried. 
they  are  ever  after  favorites  in  the  bill  of 
fare.  The  waffle  iron  is  a  very  peculiar 
machine.  The  waffle  is  put  in,  locked  up, 
baked  on  one  side  to  a  lovelv  brown. 
turned  over,  prisriTi  and  all.  until  the  other 
side  is  a  still  lovelier  hrown,  and  then  re- 
nins hot   reuiiy  for  the 


The  cut 


e  iiest   waffle 


KITCHES  LUXURIES. 

CoBRiMiATBD  SpooKS.— Thesc  are  used 
fur  befllinK  eggs,  and  are  much  more 
rii|ii<l  ill  their  worlc  t\\aa  the  ordinary 
s]iixiii.      Wliile  not  equal  to  the  im- 
proved cgi^-ljeuters,  ihey  are  severaJ  ste|w  in  hUvuiikc  of  the  old  method. 

OvsTKB  TtRoiLRR.— This  broilct  is  made 

like   other  wire  bniiteni.  only   the  apac* 

between  llie  bnrs  is  lessened  hi  tliree-sil-  ' 

teeiiths  of  an   ineli.    Tliey  are   made   in 

several  sizes,  and  are  well  adapted  lo  the 

purpose  for  which  tliey  are  made. 

Bboiler  and  Toastbr,— This  is  an   ei- 

'    cellent  cheap  broiler  and  loasler,  reverEi- 

ble,  and,  while  it  require:!<  more  attention  than  the   more  costly  broileis, 

does  its  work  well.     Broad  may  lie  nicely  toasted  by  placing  it  belwee 

bars  and  laving  toaster  on  the  tcp  of  the  s'  '""   '  "'        "*" 

one  aide  lo  loaat  the   other.     It  \r  -■-•"-  ' 

wires  are  further  apart. 

Taw.r  Mat.— a  very  nrat  and  service- 
able table  mat  ia  made  of  while  wire,  as  rep- 
resenteil  in  cut.     Nothing  has  been  de- 
vised that  is  better,  more  durable,  and  eX 
tbe  same  time  so  cheap.     It  answers  the 
purpose  admirablv,  and    is  within   the 
rcncli  of  all. 
M.ATEKiAi.  Fon  Cook T HO  Uteksii^ . — The 
best  and  safest  utensils  forwrnkinearemadeof  iron  simply,  or  of  iron  porcelain 
lined.   Tin  lined  vep-iels.  whcnouly  partly  filled,  often  become  so  much  heated 
that  the  tin  is  olydiied  and  mingles  with  the  food,  and  is  an  irritant  poison. 
The  new  ''granite"  ware  is 'coming  into  favor,  and  If   made  by  a  proper 

iiroross  is  g(H>d  and  Bale.     Brass  is  very  objectionable  if  there  is  any  acid  ia 
ood  to  be  cooked. 


w^ 


Gab  Heater.— This  simple  contrivance 
slii>s  over  the  fi;aa  burner,  and  furnishes  a 
-secure  stand  on  which  to  set  a  cup  or  tea 
[Kit,  when  it  will  beat  in  a  few  moments, 
ft  is  invaluable  In  a  sick  room  or  nursery 
in  a  house  where  rss  is  use*),  and  nlien  m 
is  not  used  there  are  substitutes  for  the 
h  bum  alcohol. 

Cake  Board  ahv 

RoLLINO  PlM.— It 

contrivance  that 
pr-imises  tc>o 
much.     There  is 

plement  serve 
■ses ;  but  there  stems  to  be  no  Rood  reason  why  a  cake  bnard 
should  not  always  be  found  togetlier,  and  the  spice  drnweTg 
n  shut  by  a  spring  catch,  so  as  not  to  slip  out,  would  be  a 


KITCHEN  LUXURIES. 
Glam  or  TIB  fOBMS  for  flower  derorationa  for  table 


___  and  eleganL  They  may  be  filled  w..._ 
...  -.  -.  .t  nand,  ana  may  tra  made  in  any  fanciful 
form.  The  flowers  are  so  placed  tliat  they  conceal  the 
form  entirely.  Small  forms,  made  in  form  of  letters, 
■re  oft«n  used  to  indioate  tlie  initials  of  llie  piicst  at 
whose  plate  they  are  placed,  and  the  custom  ia  a  very  pretty 

A    Steamino   Kerri-E. —  Many    veRetablea   are    much 
better  when   stewed   tlian  wlieii   boiled  in   actual  con- 
tact with  water.     Caliliage,  with  salt  sprinkled   among 
the  leavea  is  more  quickly  cooked  and  is  much  more   ■ 
delicate  than  when  boiled.    Tlie  same  is   true  of  pud-     1 
dings,  parlirularly  plum  puddings,  and  for  chickens,     I 
potatoes,  rice,  and  indeed  for  nearly  every  thing  usually     | 
Imnieracd  in  water.    The  outer  kettle   ia  partly  fltled 
with  boiling  water,  the  article  to  t>e  cooked  ia   placed 
in  the  perforated  pan  and  set  in  the  other  and  a  close- 
fitting  cover  plaf*d  over  both.  I 

W.uH  Bench. — No  kit^iien  is  complete  without  a  long 
bench,  two  and  a  halt  feet  wide,  and  of  a  proper  height 
for  comfort  in  washing.  c)n  which  there  is  room  for  two 
or  three  tuba  on  washing  daya.  Of  course,  a  wringer  is 
ft  necessity,  and  it  is  always  best  to  get  a  good  one.  A 
cheap  wringer  soon  becomes  worthless.  The  rollers  twist 
off,  and  it  goes  U)  pieces  generally,  while  a  gooil  one, 
properly  taken  careof,  lasts  a  long  time.  Washing  macliineaarc  more  doubU 
ful,  but  there  are  a  few  worthy  oE  a  place  in  the  kitchen,  cs|>ecially  wben 
tbe  women  folk  are  not  strong. 

Dian  Wabmer. — The  engrav- 
ing reprexenta  a  dish-warmer 
lunde  of  wire  with  fi-et  so  ar- 
mngcd  that  it  may  Ite  set  on  a 
Move.  Nothing  spoils  a  cimi 
breakfast  or  dinner  so  elTin'l- 
ually  as  cold  plates,  but  when 
placed  in  the  oven  to  beat  they  ^ 
are  very  likely  to  be  left  lun -; 
long,  and  get'  loo  hot,  or  if 
line  wares,  are  ruined  by  over- 
lieating.  With  this  heater 
there  ia  no  danger  of  over-heating,  < 
a  dish-drainer,  and  ia  equal  to  the  li 

Ret 

kill,  and  stich  other  articles  as  need  treatmet'it 
on  a  coarse  gmter.  It  is  fastened  to  a  strong 
frame  which  is  i<i!n>we4l  to  a  table,  anri  an  will 
be  readily  j^een.  iloes  its  work  with  great  rapid- 
ity. When  much  work  of  tlila  kitul  ia  done  in  a 
uinily.  it  pays  for  itself  in  a  few  months  in  the 
savin);  of  time,  and  yet  It  is  so  jiimple  and  m 
well  constriK'teil  tliat  it  will  Inst  a  life-time. 
This  Ix  as  great  nn  improvement  in  Its  way  as  1  he 
modem  egg-licater  ia  ovcrasiHion.  The*'-world 
moves,"  and  even  in  the  kitchen  labor  is  light 
ened  by  the  ingenuity  of  modern  invention. 


KITCHEN  LUXURIES. 

A  Goor  Lantern  is  a  iiepessily  in  every  house,  anil  r  i>oor 
lantern  th:it  la  always  oat  of  order  when  wanted,  is  as  much 
a  nuisance  as  a  broken  nmbrellH.  Tlie  form  represented  here 
burns  kerosene  oil.  and  is  a  clieap,  cimvenient.  anil  in  ^vcry 
way  a  gfmii  lantern  for  family  nse.  The  lamp  is  easily  tilled. 
The  tulH^  that  surroiinilit  the  lamp  furni^lies  tlie  air  for  com- 
bustion and  it  is  not  easily  broken  or  damaged. 

CUPBOARDB. — There  mipht  always  to  be  an  iron-ware  closet, 
with  deep  shelves,  in  the  kitchen,  where  iron-ware  can  be  kept 
out  o(  the  dust.  For  china,  t^loss  and  silver,  ir  such  a  luxury 
is  known,  a  corner  cupboard  with  );1ass  door;  i»  a  prcttv  arti- 
cle of  furniture,  and  takes  very  little  available  room.  Draw- 
era  for  napkins  and  table-cloths  and  fur  the  children's  biba 
in'a!.s.)!nord>..r. 

niTCH  Oven.— The  cut  representa  the  old-fasb- 
iiined  Dutch  oven,  an  iron   kettle  with  a  heavy 
ti^hMltting  iron  lid.    Thi«  is  often  used  tor  out- 
driur  cooking,  and   during   the  war   the  soldiera 
were  delighted  to  get  poiisession  of  one  of  these 
ovens  to  bake  their  pork  and  beans   in  or  their 
corn   bread  or  "  pone.''    Tlie  oven  was   lowered 
■    Into  the  ground   level  with  the  top  and  the  lid 
r    covered  with  live  coals.    There  is  no  oven  which 
'     bakes  pork  and  beans  and  imparts  the  snnie  de- 
licious flavor,  especially  when  the  appetite   baa 
been  sliur|>eueil  by  out-door  work  or  sport  and  a  moderate  degree  of  fasting. 


LeMO! 


^CB 


onade  a  iiowerful  b- 

(o  extract  all  tlie  juice.    The  one  here 

represented  takes  a  whole  lemon   and 

and  crushes  it  at  the  same  time. 

made  of  galvanized   iron,   and   is 

On»equent1y  riist-proof,  earily  cleaned 

— '  not  liable  to  be  broken  aa   is  tha 

with  wooden  squeezers.    There  iira 

other  forms  of   iron  squeezers  that  are 

>K>od,  and  much  better  than  the  woodeit 

Is  and  crushes  whole  lemons. 


Jar  Holder. — It  is  often  difflcnlt  to  remoT* 
the  top  of  ela-sH  jars  when  screwed  on,  on  ac- 
count of  the  slippery  nature  of  the  glass. 
The  holder  represented  in  the  cut  will  liw 
understood  at  a  ^liince.  It  clas^  and  holds 
the  jar  without  danj;er  of  breaking  it. 

Bosom  Biiari>. — A  iKiard  twentv  inches 
long,  and  ten  to  twelve  inclies  wi'iie.  The 
shirt  is  slipped  over  it  and  buttoned  at  the 
neck  ;  at  the  other  end  of  the  board  is  a  atrip 
about  an  ineli  wide,  fastened  to  the  board  by 
an  ami  at  cueli  end,  runniiig  along  lh« 
sides  of  tiie  board.  This  strip  is  pushed 
down,  one"  flap"  of  the  shirt  drawn  through 


between  it  and  the  end  of  the  board,  and  then  it  is  raised  up  so  that  it. 
surface  is  again  on  a  level  witli  the  iKiard.  It  thus  holds  the  shirt  firmly 
in  ))osition  while  it  is  being  ironed  and  [lolished. 


K/TCHEX  LUXURIES. 

Tmc  Bain  Marie   is  a  Ttrv  useful  open  ve!iM>] 

which  is  kept  tilleU  with  hot  (nut  Iniiitiig)  n* - 

at  the  back  of  the  atove  or  range  or  hi  aomen 

place.     In   thia   several   stew   jmns,   or   large   liii  L 

cups  with  cov era  nnd 'handles,  are  litted  in,  whic' 

are  intended  to  hold  all  the  cuoked  dishes  wlii< 

are  to  be  kept  hot  until  the  rest  of  the  dinner 

ready  to  serve.     When  a  dinner  is  delayed,  tlu-i 

is  no  better  way  of  keeping  all  dishea   hoi.  ami 

preserving  their  flavor.    It  ia  alao  convenient  tu  keep  s 

Bbles  uaed   fur  garnishing  ineata.  which  can  not  be  pre|>ared  at   the  las* 

As  Eoo  Poacher. —Break  the  egg  carefully  into 
the  little  cU|>s  and  place  them  on  the  stand.  Dip 
the  stand  into  welf-sal(ed  wafer,  which  baa  been 
brought  Co  aimiiiering  jiolnt.  When  done  each  cut 
in  aliape  of  a  shell,  is  taken  off  the  stand  and  care- 
(nlly  tipped  over  a  piece  of  buttered  toast,  leaving 
the  efch!  in  the  pretty  form  of  the  cup. 

A  Soap  Shaker  is  a  perforated  oval  tin  box  with  a 
long  handle,  which,  after  a  cake  of  soap  haa  been 
placed  i[i  it,  is  shaken  in  tbc  dish  wat«r  to  make  a 

A   HAM   BOILER  made  of   iron    is  an   f 
excellent  thing  for  boiling  whole  hams, 
■nd  inny  be  bought  with  the  siiive  and 
other  atove  furniture,   but  an  ordinary 
wash-boiler,   ilioroiighlu  cleaned,    may  be 
used,  with  rare   in   cleansing  both   be- 
fore and  'after  using.    Boiled  bam  fur-  £ 
niahes  delicious  cold  slices,   and   is  al-  S 
ways  a  favorite  meat  at   lunches,  pic-  "^ 
Dies,  etc.     In  lar^je  families  and  boarifing 
houses  the  iron  boiler  in  uaeful  f'lr  many  other  purposi 

A     CONVENIHKT     K.MFB     AN^   I 

Bi-oos  Trav.— This  is  made  of  I 
ttrcnji  Japannnl  lln  and  has  ul 
•e)Hirute  aiiartnient  for  knives,  ' 
spoons  and  forkx.  and  teaspoons. 
It  ia  also  pn>vidcd  with  a  con- 
renient  lian<l1i>.   \  wooden  liox 
niay  be  niaile  l)\  an  'ngenjous 
man    in  (he  *inn,   form    that 
will  l>e 


jnd  ia  willing  to  -([Hnd   it  in  tilting  uj 


A    Fiau-KptTLE  — Thi 
»ents  a  flsh-kcttlp     The  flih 
the  perforat^t  tin  shi  el  which 
into  the   kettle     ' 
the  perfontted  sliiet  nith  fish 
and  the  flah  is  unlirohen 
placed   for  a  iiioti)i.nl  iivi 


KITCHES  LUXURIES. 


Cake   Spoo.i.— This   is   a     peculiar 
form  of   spoon.    Ihe  space*    tJirough 
tliv  bowl  oi  Vliicli  ilouble  ttie  aiuoaiil 
lieaiing  lukes,  e>^,  etc. 

Tenrion  Choppino  Kkifb. — In  this  knife  tlie  blades 
art.-  iiiude  of  Hue  steel,  wrousht  very  thin,  and  are 
kepi  liriii  by  the  teiiaii>ii  of  tUe  frame  in  trliicb  they 
ore  net.  It  does  very  rapiil  work,  and  is  an  excellent 
knife  fur  faniilv  ase.  Most  people  consider  hash  k 
vtry  delicious  breakfast  diah,  in  spite  of  all  the  hits 
nenxitaiior   imnigraphera  liave    made  on    it,  and  a 


a  great  s> 


II  ordered  kitchen.     The  chopping  knife 
aver  of  hulchera'  billg,  and  ought  to  be  re- 
ceordinply. 

Sink. — The  best  sink  (or  service  and  con- 
is  made  of  cast-iron  in  one  solid  piece. 
There  are  wveral  sixes  manufactured,  and  the  largest  size  tliat  can  be  af- 
forclecl  should  be  wiecieil.  The  iron  sink  neverleaks,  is  easily  cleaned, 
does  not  need  iwintinu.  dues  not  get  foul  like  wood,  or  wear  out  like  zinc 
The  wa-'te-piiK;  is  ewiiy  anil  firmly  attarlied,  and  in  short  it  has  all  the  mer- 
its and  none  of  the  faults  of  oilier  slnk!<. 

Flctfji  Cakb  P.*ii.— The  'cake  _pan  repre- 
sented by  tlie  cut  is  of  a  peculiar  and  de- 
aimlile  fomi  for  niani^  purposes.  It  is  kept 
ill  most  kitclien  furnishing  stores,  and  doee 
not  exceed  tiie  ordinary  form  in  cost.  This, 
like  many  other  articles  which  we  name 
licre.  is  not  a  necessity,  but  a  luxury, 
hich  tliose  wliose  purses  are  not  too  short 


Cabinet. — Housekeepers    al- 

icl   it  difficult  to  keep  cake 

itcly  from   oil  dirt  and   all  comers, 


and 


drying  up.  The  cake  cabinet  repre- 
senteii  here  is  of  tin,  japanned  liand- 
Boniely  on  the  outside,  provided  with 
shelves  of  tin,  and  a  strung  door  with 
a  lock  and  key.  which  may  rest  in 
the  mistress'  iKM'kcl,  iu  ca.tes  where 
the  calls  of  beans  on  the  kitchen 
maids  innke  too  great  inroails  on  the 
pies  and  cakes. 

Back  for  CovEns.— There  are  always 
needed  about  a  kitchen  stove  or  range 
a  numlierof  articles,  such  as  tin  cov- 
ers for  pots  and  jiana,  handles  for 
stove  covers,  etc.  There  should  always 
be  a  rack  or  other  von  veni en  t  plure  on 
the  wall  near  tlic  stove  and  within 
easy  reach  tor  all  such  articles.  Tli« 
hanillc  tor  stove  divers  is  often  hung 
up,  lull  never  sliiiuld  be,  because  it  is 
often  snaii'lied  olf  in  a  hurry.  A 
lij^lit.    Arrange  every  thing 


KITCHEN  LinCUBIES. 


HjIHdled  ^RAiMtH. — Tliesc  art.'  made 
In  several  sizes,  and  arc  very  UM'fuI  tttr 
straining  drinkij  for  nuriiery  and  Mck 
room,  start;)),  yeast,  blaiic  mange,  gravies, 
ctulards,   syrups,  jellies,  nml  for  airting 

augar  upon  truit,  cakes  and  pies,  and  forBi(tiiiB  •■^U  into  butU;r,  extlmliiig 
all  lumps.    The  strainer  may  be  placed  over  -■■■■' 
the  knob  on  one  side  and  Uanilie  on  tlie  oilier. 

Tea  or  Cnrrrx  Sth.h sbb.— This  is  appiied 
or  lU-taohcd  in  a  moment,  bein^  lield  in  place 
by  a  spring,  assliuwn  in  cut,  in»ened  In  the 


1  luiubler 


.a-itot.  TJie  solid 
ttid  is  easily  kept 
'-—r  Is  made 


made  to  HI  any  rr)iree  or  ti 
rim  is  of  mire  brilannia,  a 
clean  and  briglit  '  -'- " 
to  attach  in  laui 

DiBH  Covers.— The  best  nray  to  keep  flies  ut 
hay  is  to  screen  nil  the  windows  of  the  house, 

and  never  relax  vigilance  in  fighting  them  wliilt!  ibc  sultry  wi-niber  hista; 
hut  to  those  who  can  not  do  this,  wire  dish  I'uvers  arc  a  pn^fions  buon. 
They  are  made  of  several  sizes,  adapted  to  the  varying  siws  of  dishes  uttd 
are  not  cMtly,  and  with  tare  will  Inat  a  long  time. 

boilcil  and  afterward  fur  the  table.  Uy  using  III 
all  risk  of  hreakiiig  tlie  egtci  when  drujiping  them 
into  the  boiling  witter  or  fishitig  them  uui  [s 
Bvoideil.  The  e^ga  are  all  put  in  and  all  re- 
moved at  the  same  time,  insuring  uniformity  in 
cooking.  When  a  part  are  to  lie  euokeil  hmser 
than  the  ^■^sl.  they  can  be  ]iut  in  lirst,  and  ili<iHe 
cociked  less  afterwards,  and  all  reniuved  tii^a'ther. 
To  eool  tlie  sliella  the  atand  with  egits  can  be  ili))|M.'d 
for  an  instant  in  cold  water,  'i'liese  stands  are 
made  in  several  sizes,  hoUling  from  four  to  tnelvc 
egtu. 

itlBHKl)  PoLtsHEn.— The  ribbed  uilisher.  for  iiol- 
ishing  shirt  h..-.."'-   ™iiinp^   mint  ,.1.- 
ironsinthee 
"  men's  folkt"  linen. 

Dish  Drainer,— 
After  washing  ilisll- 
es.  if  bt'fore  wiping 
the  dish uB  lire  placed 
indroiner,  and  clean. 


wi 


hot 

moves  the  diaagrecn- 
hle  odor  of  the  dfsh 
water,  and  gives 
them    a  clean,    jwl- 


not  slijipery. 
■ciilcd  in  c-Ht 
e  frame,  lined 


KITCHEN  LVXVBTRS. 


TiiK  FoHB  Ukh  Dhain— This  poiisisls  of  two 
separate  nrticleH— a  neat,  strong  nire  basket,  with 
a  smeller  bnskel  inside,  and  a  drip-|>fln.  The 
smaller  dishes  are  set  on  edge  in  the  small  bnsket, 
and  the  longer  ones  between  the  two,  there  being 
siHLTc  enough  below  the  basket  in  the  drip-["an  to 
hold  the  water  which  drains  off.  To  rinse  with 
hot  water  the  basket  with  dishes  in  it  may  be 
removed  frotu  pan  to  sink,  iiot  water  poured 
over  them,  and  then  returned  to  pan  In  drain. 
This  drain  was  the  Invention  ot  a  woman,  and 
tliat  she  knew  what  she  wanted. 

Bread  Cooler  jtso  Roabt 
Dbipfeh. — Every  good  bread 
maker  knows  llial.  wlien  first 
removed  from  the  oven,  her 
Fragmiit  loave:<  siiould  be  set 
where  the  air  ran  circulate 
around  them  freely,  so  as  to 
-  insure  cooling  evenly.     Oth- 

erwise portions  will  become  heavy.  The  cooler  rejireaented  above  also  aii- 
Bwora  iidniirably  to  support  a  roast  in  the  dripijing  van,  insuring  uniform 
cooking,  and  keeping  the  roast  well  up  out  of  the  drippings.  In  boiling 
meat,  particularly  a  liaiu,  this  dripper  prevents  burning. 

Toast  Rack.— Toast,  to  be  palatable,  must 
be  dry  and  criH|i,  and  to  keep  it  in  this  con- 
dition, after  Inasting,  the  slices  must  be  kept 
apart,  to  prevent  their  gathering  moisture 
and  Incoming  tough,  as  thev  always  do  when 
piled  on  a  iilatel  Tlie  English,  who  are 
very  fond  of  dry  to:i.«t  place  it  upon  the  ta- 
ble in  a  toast  nick,  which  preserves  it»  qual- 
ity and  crispness,  but  silver  racks  are  costly, 
and  out  of  the  reach  of  the  masses.  The 
rack  here  represented  is  made  of  white 
wire,  and  if  as  neat  and  clean  a.4  silver,  and 
very  cheap.  In  a  laiw  family  two  will  be  re- 
iiuirerl  as  the  dolici'.us  quality  of  the  toaat  prepared  in  this  way  creates  • 
■  ly  df'niandforit. 

Extension  Strainer,— 

sion  wire  frame  which 
is  made  to  rest  on  the 
lop  of  a  pan,  jar  or  pail. 
They  are  made  of  sev- 
eral degrees  of  fineness 
for  various  purposes, 
lu  using  the  courser  kiiid^  a  cloth  may  be  laid  inside  to  strain  very  fine. 


\it^ 


<' 


¥^ 


/ 


<?7r^  ^ 


-w- 


^ _j> — lC/    2- 


jT   .       /^  * 


/ 


J. .. ; 


.L L_j! t 


^. •.._.. 


.      «:     «     «» 


r     <^      ,_ 


C  <.    _ 


/           ^      *"            ' 

^^ 

r 

* 

• 

£•_      ■  .  . 

^.    '   .  '     -'•;...-      .  .         

•               ■   « 

• 

'y  -'    • 

> 

• 

• 

* 

• 

• 

f 

•                 1 

• 

1 

> 

•                          • 

t 

>          • 

« 

• 

• 

^ 

* 

^^-r 

X 

'  . 

• 

• 

• 

f 


i.   r 


^r^   ,^  V 


.1. 


•> »  j' 


V. 


^  .:.  / 


vm-. 


/ 


rt*  r  / 


.    n%pr      .'        

.....  ^  ,^^^  ^^^  .^ 


/ 


^ r  --    ^v-S.  J_ 


a  j^/  -i 


r-^ — ^^^ 


m:.  .' .  ' 


.>> 


r  c^^ 


.^ 


r-'  /  • 


/ 


^ 


/  J    . 


(■ 


/■  /  f 


/ 


<-  /  * 


/ 


:  t  - 


'^t^'Tri- 


y.__. 


»-•■     ♦.-.  ^^  -^ 


4j-  -  -4 1 


r  j^— . ^/^  T —  .- 


>   >     >'v' 


/ 


(j^a^f^*^-^ — <'^ 


y  s<-y(  -_    y^VC<^ 


<9^V 


J"- 


«     ^    *" 


--I 


X 


; /_/ \        y.*':jr^^5(^*-*-:' 

..     j__! iJ_ M-ru  1^ 

r(^//3^ii:j?^-i__.._Jx..-...____  ^  _ ...  f 

^^    .    /        f  .   /  _  .>;. ... 

^  -    -  ^  

2^ ^V  t<4^  ^ :1.^':'^  ' ""/ j^_fi.*LJ."_ 


>*•*»*• 


/ 


<•     ^    . 




__>.. 

—        ...  _. 

_  .  .,    _    .____. 

p-  -.- 



.1  ^^-^ . 


♦-  ?^ 


/ 


it:^  Ja  ^^-^^M 


-^=^ 


u^    c^    /i^--g<^g^^   ^"T"^  ^^:--^i 


i     '      / 


,^ 


y 


(/\^^:^^-^C^    ^h^^<^^^ i^^/^tf.^K 


i^^ 


/ryi> 


/s  -  f'  ;v  ^^  M. 


■f^.y'y. 


yyrf-'r.- 


^t^^ii-e^^    t/>^   zS-c^^ 


-^ 4L^ »  j''T:r?^^^  ''5x_  ^^^^y7rJ^ir.^i 


7    ■ 


^ 


-T^ 


A^-iif-C^ 


/ 


'^j-^.  :.--  d 


Ld^kH^^^^^ -ri ^^. 

Z^_-__-=r /^  ^^C^^S^ 


t^^Jj.^-  , — 


'/ 


-^,'Z^ 


^. 


-^y. 


J 


KITCHEX  LUXURIES. 


Candy  Tokob. — These  very  cheap  and  very  neat . 
tongs  are  an  excellent  BubaLitute  for  ulver,  ichete 
the  latter  can  not  be  afforded,  for  use  in  tierviri); 
candies  provided  for  dessert.    Tlie  muhcnof  nliiic 


PlK  Trihubb  aud  Marker.- 
ple  little  instrument  trims  o 
plu4    pie-crust    that  projccif 
plat«.  and  at  the  same  time  neatlv  _ . 
menta  the  bonier.      It  is  one  of  ttie 
(lispensableconvenicnceaof  thekiicli 
after  it  hasonce  been  used.    Pies  ean    .  . 
tlon  does  not  add  to  the  nntriment,  It  pU 
pies  are  not  famous  for  being  the  most  di 
matter  how  carefully  made. 

Mbat  Chopi-er. — This  little  machine  is 
indispensable  in  ever^r  family  where 
sausage  and  nil  nee  pies  are  favorite 
dishes.     It  does   its  work  perfectly  and 

with    great    rapidity.      Men    who    buy  | 

mowing  mncliines  and  hay  forks  can  not 
afford  to  let  tliuir  wives  work  away  in 
the  kitchen  with  old-fashioned  itunle- 
menta  when  better  ones  are  to  be  had  at 
asniall  outlay  of  money.      If  any  hun- 

band  refuses  to  buy  It,  let  tlic  wife  out  off  hia  sujinly  of  hash  and 
sausapes  on  trial,  and  then  take  severer  meins  afterward  if  necessary. 

The  DnvEB  Broilkr.— A  good 
deal  of  ingenuity  has  been  ex- 
Lauated  in  various  iiivcn,tions  for 
broilini;  meat  easily  and  quickly, 
and  leaving  housewives  no  excuse 
for  usinj;  the  dysnepsia-proiliic- 
ing,  old- fash  ion  c<l  frying  pan, 
and  therearo  several  good  ones  in  | 
the  market.  The  latest  candidate 
for  favor  hails  from  Uoston,  and 
is  veil  repreiwnted  in  the  engrav- 
ing. The  incut  is  ploccil  bettvei.'n 
the  bars  of  a  reversible  wire 
broiler,  ami  set  ujiright  inside 
the  tin  ur  Russia  ^iron  ca<e,  the 
cover  to  which  slides  over  the 
handles  and  keeps  in  all  the 
bead.  The  case  has  lui  bottom, 
but  Is  mode  in  several  sizes  to  fit 
the  holes  ()f  tlie  various  sizes  of 
stoves.    The   meat   is  thus  su>>- 

jected  t<)  great  heat  without  danper  of  buriiinu'.  A  Slmut  is  arranged  to 
catch  all  the  juices  as  they  flow,  ond  ctirrit-s  them  to  a  little  |>an  provided 
for  the  purpose.  Great  care  must  be  (akin  not  to  remove  a  cover  or  open 
the  stove  door  while  the  broiling  b  going  on,  or  the  smoke  will  rush  vp 
into  the  broiler.  With  care  to  avoid  this,  not  a  particle  of  smoke  reaches 
the  meat. 


KITCHES  LUXURIES. 

Cbown  TtA   OE  Coffee  Por  8Tuni>.— These  mra 
,  siitiple,  sod  perfectly  sdap(«d   to  the   pur- 
,    besides   being    very   strong    and   durable. 
They  are  aXao  very  useful   as   stands  for   flowei^ 
-  '-  ■-  the  liouse  or  constrvatory,  savine  window- 
shelves  from  discoloration  f] 


Th«  Whits  Motoit*inFbb«e«b.— This  freo- 
TiB  ttie  best  in  tho  ms.rket,  and   will  ftivo 
.tiefaotiou  to  every  pnrobaser.  It  has  three 
I  otioDB,    The  oenter  beater  shaft  has  lifter 

ms,  or  floats,  which  mil  the  crenm  in  the 
iddle,  turning  opposite  the  ontside  beater. 
tie  ontside  beater  Bcrap(«  the  creajnoS  tb» 
ID  and  has  floats  eitendlnK  to  inside  beater, 
tdohtticowB  the  crtHin  \a  the  oeuter,  when 
is  throvn  back  by  the  innide  beater  to  the 
Ltside,  the  can  in  the  meantime  taming  in 
1  opposite  direction  making  thbsb  Bim- 
taneons  motioiiH,  thus  misas  the  o  earn 
oronghly  and  evenly.  Theee  beateiB  are 
'  malleable  iron  and  coated  with  pure  block 

Single  beater  Freezers  do  not  mix  the  cream 
evenly  becanse  there  is  no  opposite  motion,  aud  the  cream  goes  around  with 
the  beater.  It  la  the  same  prmdple  of  rinsing  by  putting  :roiU'  hand  in  a  pail 
of  water  and  moving  it  iiroond,  the  water  goee  with  the  hand  for  the  reason 
there ifl  no  opposite  obatruotion  to  prevent.  In  the  Trijiple  Motion  Freezer  the 
armaorlloatH  pass  each  other  and  the  cream  uuer  be  better  worked 

The  beaters  are  liiiht  and  easy  to  olean,  hot  giuKle  beater  freezers  have  large 
beaters,  wliicb  &1I  np  the  can  and  are  bad  to  clean,  and  must  nw»Bsari!y  waste 
cream.  Thin  Freezer  han  no  tnrpe  sur faces  of  zinc  m  contact  with  the  cream,  bnt 
TIN  iii.^leiid.  Families  especially  look  to  this,  as  freezers  pat  away  damp,  will,wbea 
dry,  show  oiide  of  zinc,  which  is  a  well  known  poiaon. 

The  can  is  turned  from  the  bottom,  and  while  at  work  the  cover  can  be  rt^ 
moved,  showing  ila  o|ieration  clearly.  Other  freezers  are  so  conetraoted  that 
the  cover  actuates  the  can,  and  cannot  be  removed  while  working. 

The  cover  of  the  White  Moontain  Freezer  doee  not  have  to  be  adjusted  to  a 
porticnlar  plaoe,bDt  flt«  anywhere  npoa  the  can,  and  being  loose  can  be  takea 
off  easily,  witboni'.  pulling  Uie  OB  •■'-•- 


moat  of  tho  ioe. 


TrLE  Tea  aud  Coffee  Staito.— 
This  stand  ia  made  of  omamenteil 
tile,  set  in  a  traiiie  of  white  wtr^ 
very  strong  and  durable.  The  de- 
(tijtns  on  (ho  tiles  are  many  of  tbent 
artintic,  the  tiles  being  the  same 
uaed  in  ornamenting  mantels  and 
hearths  in  dwelling. 

Creameries.  —  All  honsewivea 
who  make  butter  should  e:tBinine 
i«  which  substitute  deep  setting  tor  the  old- 
J  plan  of  setting  in  sliallow  pans.  The  new  system  ia  not  only- 
cleaner,  but  it  produces  as  much  and  a  better  qualitv  of  butter,  and  does 
away  with  one-half  at  least  of  the  hard  work  of  butter  making.  Besides,  tha 
creameries,  of  which  there  are  several  good  ones,  take  up  bat  very  little 
■psce,  relieve  the  pantry  shelves  of  the  great  number  of  pans  required  bf 
the  old  way,  and  make  a  milk  house  unncceaaary.    They  are  not  costly,  and 


KITCHEN  LUXURIES. 

Laroe  Orater.— a  \aTge  grat«r  le  a  neces- 
sity in  every  kitchen.  It  is  used  for  grating 
horse-radiflh,  cheeee,  oranges,  lemons,  etc.. 
■  and  a  hundred  other  porposea  which  bring  it 
iuto  frequent  use.  It  is  not  costly  and  lasts 
a  life-time. 

"iiHK,  set  on  very  large  and 
.,  ft  labor-saving  contrivance.  It  may  oe  run  into  Hie  iliiiing- 
rooni  to  rt-cuive  dishes  after  the  meal  ia  over,  and  afterward  returned  to  the 
kitchen  and  placed  where  tlie  light  ia  best,  or  in  (he  coolest  part  of  the 
room  it  the  weather  is  hot.  Simple  contrivances  of  this  kind,  which  mst 
little  except  the  labor  of  the  "  men  folks."  may  often  be  used  tu  save  .ste|H 
and  preserve  the  healthof  the  nverworked  hoiLiekee|>er. 

A  COI.AIJDBB  in  the  form  given  in 
cut  is  no^  much  used,  and  is  a 
prime  necessity  in  every  kitchen. 
Every  skillful  housewife  will  be 
quick  to  see  the  advantages  of  this 
over  other  forms.  Its  price  is  not 
high,  and  it  maybe  found  in  any 
well-supplied      kitchen     furnishing 

Etore.     There  are  other  forms  less  convenient,  hut  tlie.vilo  not  cost  much  less. 
This  form  is  made  for  service,  and  will  last  a  long  tiiiie. 

Spice  Race. — The  cut  represents  a 
neat  rack  in  which  is  set  small  cans 
containing  spices.  The  handle  is  a  con- 
venience, and  the  rack  con  be  set  near 
when  cakes  are  to  be  made,  and  when 
the  work  is  done  it  may  be  set  away  on 
a  shelf  or  in  a  cupbo^d  until  needed 
again. 

Spick  Cabinet. — A  little  bureau,  abont 
a  foot  high,  with  each  drawer  labeled 
outside,     "nutmegs,"     "cloves,"    etc., 

and  put  up  near  where  cakes,  etc.  are  made.     It  costs  little,  probably  about 
two  dollars,  and  is  a  great  convenience. 

Spice  Box.— The  spice  boa  serves  the  same 
purpose  as  the  mck  and  cabinet,  but  is 
closer  than  either  and  equally  convenient, 
it  has  a  handle  on  the  top  and  a  clasp 
which  fastens  the  lid  in  place.  For  keeping 
spices  from  waste,  and  for  convenience,  one 
of  these  contrivances  is  a  great  addition  to 
a  kitchen  outfit. 

A  PAIR  OF  <iOoi>  RCAiJts  is  a  necessity  in 
even'  well-regulated  kitchen.  Unfortn- 
tkately  for  people  who  always  want  to  get 
the  full  worth  of  their  money,  not  every 
grocer  and  butcher  is  Jionest.  and  when  the 
quality  of  goods  is  satisfactory  there  is 
sometimes  a  si^rioH."  shortage  in  weight..  A 
good  pair  of  scales  is  a  little  detective  that 
does  Its  work  quietly  and  faithfully.  If 
after  all  allowance  for  error  that  a  reasonable  ni 

habitually  short,  it  is  better  and  safer  to  try  a  .._  .  __ ,  

knows  you  have  a  weighing  scale  and  use  it,  your  weights  will  lie  ftiU,  ea- 
pecially  if  you  pay  vour  bills  promptly. 


KITCHEN  LUXURIES. 


■EH  FoTiK.— Tlie  short  tines  Iiold 
t)ie  en<i  of  the  fork,  instead  of 
.  tines  to  slip  IliroU);h  and    jiro- 
bIso  very  neat  Eor  pickles. 


Pascaki   Lieteb.— Thia   simple    and 

cheap   liri«r  is  a  necessity  if  unbroken 

and  neatly  baked  punuikes  are  a  ilesid- 

erataro.     The   cost  is   small,  and    the 

anil  with  it  there  is  no  excuse  for  not  serving  the 

Labdwh  Needlbs.— The  delicious  flavor 
imparted  lo  meats,  game,  ete..  by  the 
process  oE  larding,  deiicribed  eliienbere, 
niakes  a  larding  needle  one  of  the  neo- 
essury  impletutitiia  of  the  kitchen.  Tba 
liret  cut  represents  the  needle,  the  iaat 
shape  represented),  and  the  middle  the 


the  lard  (piece  of  nalt  pork  cut  ir 

larding  needle  with  lard  inserted. 

Case  Cdttbbs.— These 
two  engravings  show  a 
few  o[  the  many  designs 
in  cake  cutters,  made  of 
tin,  to  give  fancy  forms 
to  cakes.  They  may  be 
bad  of  all  house  fiirnish- 


j      amon^   tlie  lu; 

I  the  kitchen— very  nice 
where   Uiey  can   be   af- 

-'  forded,  and  tliey  are  not 
very  costly.  The  effect  ia  very  pretty  when  different 
form  is  UHod. 


ing 


n  a  single  fancy 


■■  di  recti  01 


Tub  DovBB  Eoo  BiATBm  is 
^nerally  regarded  as  the  best 
in  the  market,  and  we  know  of 
no  rival  that  has  all  its  excel- 
lenries.  It  is  not  costly,  and  U 
very  durable.  By  an  ingenious 
contrivance  tlie  inner  circle  re- 
circle.     With  this  the  egg  beating 


Te.v  and  Comm  Cass.— To  preserve  the  stren^h  of 
ii'a  or  coffee  requires  a  close  m-eptacle.  Nothing  is  bet- 
ter than  tlie  tin  cans  with  cloBe  covers,  japanned  on  the 
outside  surface,  kept  for  sale  f'lr  this  purpose,  They  are 
made  neatly  labeled  on  the  side  for  "  tea"  or  "coffee," 
30  that  there  la  no  mistaking  the  one  for  the  other,  and 
no  loss  of  Wme  In  getting  what  is  wanted. 

Oil  Stovks.— Where  gas  is  not  in  use,  sonje  one 
of  the  many  kinds  of  oil  niores  may  be  used  for  cooking 
to  advantage,  in  hot  weather  esprcially,  when  the  fam- 
ily is  small.  The  use  of  those  which  use  gasoline,  and 
the  lighter  products  of  petroleum,  usually  increases  tb* 
rate  of  insurance,  and  is  too  dangerous  to  be  trusted  ta 
liny  but  the  most  careful  and  experienced  persons. 


KIICHEK  LUXURIES. 

ABTinciAi.  SioKE  Gridhi-k. — Tliis 
la  a  new  article  for  the  kitchen,  is 
light  and  dumb  It,  and.  itisclaimed, 
does  away  entirely  with  greuse  and 
emoke  iu  making  llie  breakfast 
pkncakea.  Suap-stune  griddles  are 
often  used,  hut  tliis  is  a  much  cheapci 

Cork  Pulls.— The  cut 
represents  a[i  invention 
that  is  useful  fur  pulling 
corks  from  but  ties,  for 
holding  dish-cloth  in  liot 

water,  and  for  holding  cloth  used  in  cleaning  lamp  chi 
purpose  it  is  excellent. 

Thk  American  BHoiLEH.—Thi.H  popular  broili 


trying  pan  from  the  kitchen  than  any  of 
rivals.     It  will  always  be  a  favorite. 

Fancy  Woo»  Table  Mats.— Tiiere  are  three 
sizes  of  table  mats,  made  of  stripes  uf  light  and 
dsrh  wooil.  alternating,  and  fastened  to  strong 
telt  cloth.  When  not  in  use  they  may  be  rolled 
np  into  a  very  small  comjiass.  The  wood  i»  very 
effect  ia  very  pretty.    They  ure  very  cheap,  durflbli 


leys.     For  the  latter 


E    ToNliH 


-Thit 


very  handy  kitcheii  iiiiplcnient 
for  turning  meats  or  taking 
vegetables  out  uf  the  oven  or 
the  kettle.  They  are  very  neat 
and  durable,  and  cheap  withal. 
Salt  Dcsiibs.  — The  "star 
sails"  are  now  very  generally 
awcl  on  account  ot  their  con- 
venience and  utility.  In  the 
bottk-.  which  has  a  iwrforated 
top  like  a  pepper-ho.>(,  is  a  pal' 
vprizer  which  keeps  the  salt  loose,  and  insares 
not  necessary  fo  measure  the  quantity,  they  a 
good  distribution  uf  tlie  salt. 

UsiVEBSAL  UOI'UH  MiXBR  AND  KSEAD- 

EB.— There  are  several  contrivances  in 
market  which  claim  to  lighten  the  hard 
lalwr  of  mixing  and  kneading  dough  in 
brcad-tuuking.  The  inventors  of  "Tlie 
UntverKal"   claim  that  it  will  produce 

as  fine  bread  in  -■■-'■'  — ' "-- 

mode  by  half  u 

FarBR  ASD  DsAiKER. — Tliis  invention 
furnishes  a  convenient  method  of  frying 
oysters,  potatoes,  and  other  Hrticles 'that 
when  done  need  to  be  renioved  niiiekly 

from  the  boiling  fat  and  drained,  while  remaining  over  the  hot  fire,  in  or- 
der to  remove  all  sui>erfliious  grease.     It  has  a  support  for  the  perfected  pan 
which  rests  inside  the  frying  pan,  which  mav  be  iletuched,  leaving  the  trnwi 
pan  a  little  deeper  thun  thi>se  in  common  u^. 
31 


KITCHEN  LUXURIES. 


PABrao  KNint.— A  Unite  with  a  guard  on 
the  side  which  prevents  lAkfng  a  thick  par- 
ing from  potilto«a  or  fruit 


AFPI.E  ToRKHF.— These  ai 
liffereiit  sizes  for  large  o 
-"id  has  a,  lan^e  wire  n 


- —  -,r —     — -'  upper 

_. „,   ^.1   around   the  nm  to  make  a 

■  rounded  surface  for  the  liand.  With  care  the  cores  are 
neatly  and  quickly  r«nioved,  leaving  the  apple  whole.  The  hole  may  be 
flUed  wiih  sugar  in  cwokiiig. 

^rtWiiw^«*M«     The  Cream  Whipper.— The  hanille  of  this  wliipper  is 

""tJT^    rr       II  I  jij  plated   inside  the  tube,  and   the  perforated  end  of   the 

tulie  (lipped  into  a  bowl  of  sweetened  and  flavored  cream. 

^~  By  draiving  up  the  liaiidle  and   forcing   it  down  again 

r  (H  m   the  cream  is  forced  in  aud  out  of  the  holes  in  the  Cube 

^  «*   and  soon  becomes  a  light  troth,  which  is  taken  off  with 

a  spoon  placed  on  a  sieve  to  drain  and  the  drainage  rewhipped. 

Potato  Slicer.— Where  potatoes  are  cooked  in  Sar- 
i  atoga  style — a   very  delicious  method  of  cooking — a 
I  slicer  is  necessary.    The  one   represented   here  has  an 
I  adjustable  knife  regulated  by  the  screws  at  the  <<ide9, 
I  ...  .1  -^  .   ^.  ._._  .^  j.y^   ]^(j,  thicker  or  tl   nner  si  pes 
pass  ng   tover    Tl  salicer  salso 
eicellent  for  al  c  ng  en  bage  or  for  o'  ons  to  sene  w  th  cucumbers    cab. 
t  toi   tl        as    t   s  less  crisj. 

\.  CisTABD  Krrrte— The  best  a  d  nost  service- 
al  le  custard  kettle  s  nal  torn  as  1  ere  rep 
resented  Tl  e  out  r  kettle  s  of  iron  a  d  the 
nneroneof  block  n  Tl  e  o  ter  kettle  «  iirtl 
blied  v>  tl  boil  g  water  a  d  the  inner  kettle 
CO  ta  n  g  tJ  e  custard  is  set  ito  t  V  the 
latter  s  surrou  ded  n  tl  valer  there  s  no  dan 
ger  of  bam  ng  rheaj  er  kettles  on  san  e  plan 
are  made  of  t  n   b  t  are  i  ot  «u  durable 

A  botp  Dish  n  ade  of  cast   ron   which  fastens 
Ic  of  II  e  wash  tub  to  hold  a  cake  of  hard  soap 

uf  "oft  10B1 

"•■THA  vFH  STA>r  — Tl  3    >i  =  mpU  a  frame 

niHde  to  suBlam  the  strainer  while  drain' 

ing.    The  cords  arc   fastened   to  tlie  ring 

\    tliat  forms  the  toii  of  strainer  sack,  and 

then  to  the  iwsls  of  the  stand.  The  strainer 

should  be  made  of  canton  flannel,  and  may 

he  nsed  for  clear  souje,  jellies  or  any  other 

purpose  for  which  slow  straining  is  needed. 

For  convenience  rings   to  slip  over  posla 

of  frame  may  be  attached  to  the  cord.    Of 

coiirin  such   a  »<tnnd   may  be  made   plain, 

and  any  ingenious  boy.  with  a  limited  set 

^  of  tools,  could  make  one  that  would  serve 

■  the  purpose  well,  and  the  boy  is  half  edu> 

cated  when  he  learns  to  handle  tools  weU 

and  to  help  his  mother.    In  fact,  many  of 

the  luxuries  of  the  kitchen  may  be  snp- 

plted  without  cost  by  the  boys  of  tlie  family  if  they  have  the  niecbanlod 

tact  and  ingenuity  to  make  them. 


KIIVUEH  LUXURIES.  491 

"  O VBTER- B LOCKS. "~T ilia  ia  the  iiame  of  the  new  ice-sets  for  serving  raw 
oysters  at  fashionable  dinners  and  suppers.  There  is,  first,  a  tin  box.  Into 
this  is  set  a  larjje  square  slab  of  pertecMy  pare,  clear  ice.  Around  the  boi, 
and  concealinj^  its  edfie,  is  beautifully  arranged,  handsome  sea-weed  of  the 
least  jagged  kind.  Wlien  tlie  lime  comes  for  serving  the  raw  oysters  they 
are  laid  upon  the  slab  of  ice,  on  which  they  must  not  remain  long  enough 
to  freeze — in  a  room  of  average  leiiiperalure  this  will  not  happen— and  then 
they  are  served.  "  Utile  Neck"  clams  are  served  in  the  same  way.  and  a 
fancy  having  demanded  the  small  crabs  that  are  frequently  served  with  oys- 
ters, these  are  thus  brought  to  tahle  also. 

Lid  Ij»tkks. — There  are  a  great  many  forms  of 
lifters  for  siove  lids.  The  two  beat  we  ilhi.simtf 
heri>.  In  one  the  handle  is  of  wood,  set  in  an 
1  socket,  n  I  id  ill       "'  '"  '"' 


and  has  a  linok  for  lifting  puts  and  kettles,  which 
an?  providcil  with  bails.    Al  '  •    .-  - 

the  1i 


rovidcil  with  bails.    Always  have  a  shelf  foj 


m.—ln  cities  where  gas  is  used   the 

use  of  jcas  stoves  for  cooking  in  hot  weather  Is  as 
a  rule  economical,  and  adils  much  to  comfort,  or  rather  saves  much  discom- 
fort. Uas  companies  usually  make  a  discount  for  gas  consumed  in  cooking. 
There  are  many  gas  stoves  in  market,  any  of  them  eicellent  for  the 
purpose. 

Ply  Trap.— In  spite  of  carefully  screened  windows,  flies 
will  make  their  way  into  the  best  kept  houses.  The  trap 
represented  here  is  tlie  invention  of  a  lady,  and  is  a  per- 
fect success.  It  will  clear  a  room  of  flies  in  a  short  time, 
if  none  are  allowed  to  get  in  fromoutof  doors.  The  tlies 
are  attracted  insi<le  the  cage  by  bait  and  can't  get  out, 
and  are  easily  killed  and  trap  set  for  more. 

KiTc-HF.s  WisnowB — Ought  to  be  as  cheerful,  light  and 
bright  OS  any  room  in  the  house.  If  the  sills  are  extra 
liniad,  and  a  few*  choice  Howers  thrive  on  them,  so  much 
the  better.  The  ceilings  should  be  of  a  cheerful  tint,  and 
the  wood-work,  whether  oiled  or  [minted,  vamiihtd.  This 
protects  the  wood  nud  paint,  and  it  iseu-sily  cleaned.  It  i- 
a  mistaken  idea  to  neglect  the  kitchen  for  the  parlor. 


.  _ a  little  liall  Is  formed,  with  a  pretty  n. . 

jurface.    These  niay  be  piled  on  the  butter  dish, 

or  served  on  individual  butter  dishes  at  the  plates. 

A  Gr.itk  Heatkh. — One  of  the  latest  cheap  conveniences  is  a  neat  iron 

Elate,  large  enough  to  set  a  coffee  or  teapot  on.  which  has  appendages  be- 
iw  which  slip  over  the  front  bars  of  a  grate,  and  furnish  a  place  to  heat 
cofTee.  tea  or  water  by  the  grate  fire.  This  heater  may  be  ollucbed  so  as  to 
project  inside  over  the  fire,  or  outside  when  the  heat  would  be  less  intense. 

A  Table  He.iteb.— Another  ingenious  heater  Is  a  round  piece  of  solid 
Iron,  as  large  as  the  bottom  of  a  coffee-pot  This  Is  placed  on  the  top  of 
the  stove  and  heated,  and  when  the  cotiee-pot  is  placed  on  the  table  this 
heater,  set  in  a  neat  cast-iron  bnsltet,  supported  on  three  neat  Ipct.  takes 
the  place  of  a  table  mat  and  kee|w  it  steaming  hot,  as  the  iron  holds  heat 
for  .  lung  time.  The  baNkei  is  constructed  so  that  air  circulates  under  the 
Wti  and  prevents  injury  to  table. 


HOUSEHOLD  OONVENIENOES. 

There  are  many  inventions,  not  costly,  that  are  very  useful,  which  do  oot 
belong  to  the  kitchen,  a  few  of  which  are  n^entioned  below : 

BBt;HH  akdComb  R.vck.— a  very  neat 
white  wire  rack,  for  hoMioBthe  hairbrush 
and  comb,  vrliich  usually  lie  in  the  wny  in 

the  vicinity  of  the  mirror,  may  now  be  i 

liud  for  a  few  edits,  and  is  a  great  con- 
vi-nience  for  the  toilet. 

Chbap  Toilet  Table.— When  a  wash 
stand  can  not  be  afTorded,  procure  a  large 
three-cornered  piece  of  board,  large 
«nough  to  comfortably  aceommodate  a 
wash  l>owl,  pitcher,  eta.,  and  fasten  it  in 

a  comer  of  [be  room  where  the  light  iHBOod.  Cover  it  suitably  with  col- 
ored cambric,  tack  on  the  edge  a  BliRhtly  full  flounce  of  the  same,  long 
enough  to  reach  the  Hoor,  Over  this  place  plain  book  muslin  with  box 
pleatinga  across  the  edge  and  along  the  bottom.  The  frame  of  the  mirror 
over  it  may  also  be  draped  with  book  muslin.  Neat  paper  lioies,  covered 
with  fancy  pa(*r  or  zephyr  work  niav  he  added  for  holding  hriiafaes, 
comtB.  eli^  A  neat  drawer  may  easily  be  fitted  under  the  hoam,  and  will 
be  found  convenient  for  many  purposes. 

Bbubh  STANn. — Another  toilet  convenience  is 
a  white  wire  stand  for  hand  and  tooth  hruBhes. 
It  is  so  contrived  that  the  bruslies  are  kept  in 
place  and  yet  are  always  within  easy  and  con- 
venient reach.  The  stand  is  not  expensive,  and 
is  ornamental  as  well  as  useful. 

A  HoMBMADB  LousoE.— A  long  packing  boi, 
Bucli  as  may  be  had  for  a  trifle  at  almost  anv 
dry  goods  store,  of  the  right  height,  lined  with 
wall-'i-iapcr,  the  cover  put  on  with  hinges,  and 
if  of  more  th:<n  one  Ixurd  strengthenetl  by 
cleats  on  the  under  side,  and  the  whole  neatly 
cnshioned  and  covered  with  tastefully  selected 
calico,  makcH  a  very  pretty  lounge,  and  may 
be  used  also  for  a  receptacle  of  the  best  dresses. 
When  more  than  one  dress  is  to  he  stored  in 
It,  and  it  is  important  to  avoiil  crtishine.  a  thin 
board  resting  on  strips  nailed  on  the  ends  inside 
half  way  up  divides  the   box   into  two  equal 

Place  the  dress  least  iiseil  in  hottom,  drop  the  dividing  board 
•i  luir  in  uHlcf  namienls  more  commonly  •"•^     v,.i».,no  in. 
oo  close  |)acking  and  mui 

represents  a  very  good 
form  of  smoothing  iron.  The  pccutinr  form  of  the 
handle  makes  it  convenient  and  easy  to  the  hand, 
while  the  widtli  of  the  guard  wards  olF  the  heat  more 
than  in  the  common  form. 

Lamp  8a ABES. — A  Japanese  para'^ol.  with  the  handle 
removed,  and  a  hole  cut  in  the  center  to  admit  the 
chimney,  makes  a  pretty  lamp  shade.  This  is  not  es- 
peciallv  new,  hut  is  effective  always.  The  ribs  of  the 
parasol  are  finished  with  tassels  of  tutted  crewels. 
(«2) 


HOUSEHOLD  CONVENIENCES. 

Sfohob  Basket.  —  A  sponge,  especially 
Vben  daiup,  ie  a  nuisance.  If  hung  up  it 
uiuisieiis  the  wall,  and  i[  laid  down  it  gets 
in  every  hody's  way  and  ^thets  dirt.  The 
Bimple,  neat  and  cheap  wire  basket  which 
hani^  oil  Ibc  wall  is  a  good  receptacle  for  it, 
or  a  three-curl lered  piece  of  oil-clotli,  suit- 
taiued  by  a  Mrinjt  fastened  nt  each  corner, 
ia  a  good  makeshift  fur  the  same  purpose. 

To  Make  a  I^nu  MAT.^After  stringing  on 
the  twine  tlie  small  pieces  of  cioth,  muslin, 
etc.,  as  described  on  page  452,  cut  them 
into  the  lengtlis  required,  and  lay  theiu 
Bide  by  dde.      Sew    the  strips' strongly  lo- 


le  color  and  material,  red,  blaSi'or  blue,  which  wiU 
r  may  be  of  mixed  colors  and  materials. 


vised.    The  very 
(  Bu  easily  obtained,  may  thua  be  made  uppixy 
for  tables,  mantels,  etc. 


a  safe  and  con- 
venient way  of 

the  beautifully 

plaques,  now  so 
much  in  fash- 
ion.  One  of  the 

shows  an  ingen- 
ious and  cheep 
hanger,  and  the 
other  the  bang- 
er In  tise.    Thejr  explain  themselves. 


HOUSEHOLD  CONVESfENCES. 

A  Match  8iff„— Miwl  iieojile  think  any  kind  of  » 
maicli  sale  will  do,  and  luatclies  are  placed  in  all 
aorta  of  reci'iilucles,  eijiosed  to  all  sorts  of  accidents. 
Occosionallv  a  baby  is  poisoned  by  iikking  tiieni  up 
(roiii  Uie  lloor  and  putting  tlieni  in  its  mouth,  ^d 
oftener  liouses  are  burned  up  by  stray  inalches  that 
are  ienited  nobody  knows  liow.  The  only  proper 
place  to  put  mattlies  is  in  o  nielal  box  with  a  self- 
cltisitig  lid.  The  one  represented  in  cut  is  of  metal. 
ses  by  its  own  weight 

A  PoLisHiKC    iBON.— Many   houHcwives   wonder    why 

'    they  can  not  give  to  shirt  collars,  liosonis,  and  cuflB  the 

fine  glossy  surtace   tlial   tlie  laundress   puta  on.     This 

iwliah  is  due  not  ao   much  to  any  preparation  of   the 

starch  as  vigorous  rubbing  with   an   iron  made  for  the 

>  purpose  and  shaped  like  the  one  in  the  cut  It  is 
somewhat  like  a  common  Hat-iron,  but  has  no  sharp 
comers  or  edges,  and  has  a  brightly-polished  steel  face. 
After  the  bosom  or  collar  lias  been  starched  and  ironed 
a  damp  cloth  is  paaseri  over  them  and  then  tlie  polisher 
ied.  bearing   on   hard  and   rubbing  the  surface 

Window    Hook.— It   is   often 
difHcuit    to'   find    or  contrive    ft 
hook    on    whii^h   to   fasten    th« 
bird-cage  or  a    hanging  haakel, 
which  needs  to  be  hung  oppo- 
site   the   center   of   a    window, 
without  marring  the  casing.   The 
cut  reprcKcnts  a  neat  hook  which 
is  perfectly  ^apted  to  the  pur- 
pose.  The'lwonpperarmsendin 
rings  through  which  screws  paaa 
into  the  upper,  edge  of  the  window  casing,  while  tiie  end  of  the  third  ami 
Bimply  rests  against  the  front  of  the  casing.      It  is  firm  enough  to  sustain 
any  ordinary  weight. 

A  Safe  and  RemerRR.— It  sometimes 
hapjiens  that  houses  are  so  planned  that 
a  stove-pipe  passes  through  the  floor  to 
the  room  in  second  story  before  passing 
into  llie  cliininey,  a  drum  being  used  for 
heating  the  up-slairs  room.  The  illustra- 
tion represents  the  upper  end  of  a  safe 
and  register  tlirough  which  the  pipe 
passes.  Tlie  length  of  the  sate  is  e^nal 
to  the  width  of  the  joists  plus  the  thick- 
ness of  the  floor  and  the  lath  and  plas- 
tering. The  space  between  the  two  walls 
(tin  or  Russia  iron)  of  the  safe  is  three 
inclies;  they  are  connected  toother  be- 
low by  a  perforated  cast-iron  circle,  and 
aijove  by  the  tin'le  shown  in  cut,  which 
is  fitted  with  a  sliding  circle  which  opens 
or  closes  the  apertures.  When  open,  tha 
warm  air  from  the  room  below  rushes  up  to  the  upper  room ;  when  closed 
It  is  simply  a  perfect  safe,  the  large  air  apace  between  the  walls  being  per- 

which  drop 


HOUSmiOLD    COSVESlEyCES. 

the  most  dif- 

^_  ..  .  ,  Bflei 

aei^'^'l  its  piiriioM;  in  kindling  n  lii 
''  bluwer."      It  is  tifo  hot  to  come  in  i-uii- 
lacC  with  oarpet  or  Door  or  wood  work, 
loo  hot  to  hang  up,  and  in  fuc"  '   "  '    '  "" 

diopoBe  ot  in  any  way.    Just  h , , , 

thought  has  struck  some  iticeiiious  F«1l<>n-. 
■11(1  the  rui'k  represtntwi  here  co"  ' 
the  fr>mt.  The  dilhrulty  is  solve 
there  is  a  ])1acc  to  jilit  the  blowei'  after 
its  work  is  done.  Ijikc  many  other  ^hhI 
tilings  it  is  »i  simple  that  everybody  won- 
ders why  It  was  never  made  U'fore. 

Broom  HoLnEE.— A  place  [or  every  thing  and  every 
thing  in  its  idoee  ap]ilies  to  a  brush-hrooiii  as  welt  an  to 
otiier  household  ncceBBities.  'Die  neat  wire-frame  rep- 
resented ill  cut  is  one  good  way  of  disjHising  ul  that  ar- 
ticle, and  may  serve  to  suggest  to  iiigviiious  housenivea 
many  oUier  ways  just  ua  Kood. 

To  M*KE  A  Handsome  Mat  Oit  oc  Vest  Small 
Scli.tt«.— This  U  giKxl  work  for  children.  Take  a  ball 
of  twine  and  a  lar^'  liei'dle.  cut  pieces  of  cloth,  mua- 
liu.  silk,  or  any  thing  you  have,  into  squares  about  an 
inch  each  way.  Thread  these  on  tlie  twine  until  you 
have  covered  aNiut  three  yards.  Then  cut  the  twine 
and  fasten  it  well  to  prevent  its  sliiiping.  and  roll  it 
round  and  round,  taking  long  stitches  tlirou^li  ami 
through  to  keep  it  steady  niui  llut.  Wlien  quite  linn 
take  a  large  pair  ol  scissors,  and.  ia^'ing  the  mat  flat. 
cut  the  rough  edges  until  tlic  mat  is  pared  tu  ni^arly 
half  its  former  thickness.  It  should  look  like  a  cjiild  s 
worsted  ball,  and  is  the  same  on  both  sides.  These 
mats  were  made  during  the  war  by  the  Sijuthem  la- 
dies, and  if  well  done  are  wanii  and  pretty. 

A  Sapk  Ash  TIarrei,. — Many  a  destructive 
lire  originates  in  carelpa.iiip.'vi  in  the  handling 
ot  ashes.  They  are  thrown  out  in  improper 
plains  or  placed  in  wooden  receptacles,  and 
a  lire  breaks  out  from  s)K>ntaneous  com- 
bustion or  from  some  "unknown  cause." 
A  proper  asli  barrel  is  made  of  metal. 
shouhl  be  heavy  enough  so  as  not  to  tie 
eosilv  bmised,  and  should  he  jirovidcd  witli 
handles  for  convenient  removal.  The  one 
reiiresented  in  cut.  wiien  nse<l  for  coal 
ashes,  is  provided  with  a  sieve  wiiicii  liulds 
and  saves  all  the  uncunsiinuil  coal,  while  it 
allows  the  ashes  to  pass  tlininjih. 

Foot  Stools.— 'Wiim-out  liasmcks  can  be 
prettilv  covered,  and  made  lit  for  silling 
room  footstools  with  cuttings  from  carpets. 
Cut  them  into  squares,  hind  them  with 
oommon  braid,  such  as  is  liougbt  for  the 
bottom  of  ladies'  drc!<scs.  and  llien  sew  the  pieees  togetl 
bound  ton  and  bottom,  will  go  round  the  Wool  to  which 


496  HOUSEHOLD  CONVEXIEyCES. 

A  Vektilitor.— There  15,  in  tliose  dsjs,  line  upon  Itii« 
and  precept  iiooii  precept  upon  llie  subject  <ti  ventiU- 
tioti.  Every  (.-liimiiey  iiught  to  have  two  Hues— one  for 
smoke  ami  the  otiier  for  ventilation.  The  form  ol  ven- 
tilator rep n.'it('iit I'll  in  cut  is  neat  and  inexpensive,  and 
flts  a  apai-e  in  a  etiininey  large  enough  Ui  take  in  an  or- 
dinary stove- pi  i>e. 

Flowkb   Pots. — Take   common   red   clay   flovfer  pots, 

scrub  them  nntil  all  s]>ots  are  remove!  and  tliey  are  of 

one  color.    Then   get  a  package   of  lilhouUea  and  paste 

them  not  too  thickly  over  the  pot.    Tlien  ^ive  a  coat  of  varnish.    They  are 

quite  ornaiiieiilal.  and   wlieii  suspended  by  a  red  cord  they  make  a  very 

nice  lian),'iiig  banket.    In  a  handsomely  or  even  a.  moderately  well  furnisheo 

i  pinin  red  pots  seem  shabby. 

A  FoLDiMO  Tablb. — A  folding  table  is  very  use- 
ful in  Bmall  bouses,  and  even  in  large  houses  for 
many  pun>oaes.  The  scconipanyin):  cut  rcpresenla 
'  a  form  which  is  simple,  convenient,  and  easily 
made  by  any  c.'ar]>enter.  It  folds  up  compactly 
when  not  in  UM>,  and  when  needi-d  may  be  instantly 
unfolded  and  is  ready  for  use.  When  an  extra  table 
is  needed  iu  ninkiiie  up  clothing,  etc..  such  a  piece 
__  _        of  furniture  is  invHUiahlc.  and  when  not  in  use  it 

does  not  occupy  valuable  sjiace  and  get  in  everybody's   way. 

—^  Knife  and  Spoon  Bos. — Knives  and  spoons 

ought  to  be  daily  counted  and  put  away  fu 
box  kept  for  tlie  purpose.  The  cut  repre- 
sents H  strong  box,  made  of  tin  japanned  oD 
the  outside,  an  apartment  on  one  side  for 
knives  and  forks  and  on  the  other  for  spoons. 
Tlie  lids  lit  closely  and  are  held  in  place  by 
a  liBsn.  This  insures  their  keeping  dry  and 
considerable  itu[)ortance  to  the  tidy  housewife. 

A  CoNVEKiKNT  Abh  Boi. — This  can  be  made  of 
clieap  lumber,  and  of  a  size  that  the  lumber  at 
hand  will  cut  without  waste;  seven  feet  in 
ieiiKlh  by  three  feet  in  width,  and  four  feet 
high,  may  answer  in  most  circuma lances.  A  lid, 
A,  is  provided  occupying  nearly  one-halt  of  the 
lop  as  shown  in  lig.  1.  and  also  a  side  door  B. 
used  for  rcmovin):  the  ashes.  Two  stri|>s  of 
■ward  are  fastened  within  and  lengthwise  of  the 
box,  upon  which  the  sifter  iir  sieve  rests  as  it  is 
,  shaken,  as  shown  in  vertical  view,  upper  figure. 
Tlie  sieve,  which  is  an  ordinary  one,  coating  iier- 
haps  twenty-five  cents  at  the  store,  has  a  lonir 
handle  fastened  tf  '■'■  —'■ 

sifting  apparatus ,. 

claimed  for  this  ash  liox  are;  The  ashes  c 
sifted  without  making  ai^  dust,  as  when  the  lid  is  closed  tlie  whole  is  con- 
fined within  the  box.  Tlie  ashes  and  sieve  are  kept  from  exposure  to 
storms,  and  the  latter  is  always  in  place  and  ready  tor  use.  It  dispenses 
with  a  disagreeable  looking  beau  of^  ashes  often  found  on  exhibition  the 


wood,  care  should  be  taken  tbat  tliere  be  no  five  coals  among  the  ashes  when 
they  go  to  the  ash  box.  A  coat  of  paint  will  add  to  the  appearance  of 
this  useful  and  economical  article. 


HOUSEHOLD  COyVESlEA'CBS.  497 

CRrwB  BRrsH  abd  Pak.— The  out  rep- 
resents a  very  neat  and  cunvenient 
«rumb  brush  and  Jian  for  cleanhig  tbii 
(able  of  crumbs  after  each  course.  A 
neat  table  is  one  of  the  nccompani- 
nients  of  a  gooil  dinner,  and  the  debrit 
ii£  one  course  should  be  removed  be. 
lore  the  next  makes  its  aiij>earailce.  The 

tnrved  form  of  the  brush  makes  it  easy  to  gather  up  the  crumbs  and  sweep 
tbem  into  the  pan. 

Coal  Vabb.— This  furnishes  a  neat  receptacle  for  the 
coal-hod.  whieh  slides  to  its  place  inside,  completclv  out 
of  the  way  and  out  of  sight,  and  tor  the  poker,  sliovel 
and  tongs,  and  is  withal  a  very  neat  article  of  furniture. 
The  Ikjk  is  made  of  heavy  tin,  japanned  and  neativ  oi* 
tiainenled.    Ho  living  room  is  quite  complete  withiiiitan 

Xn  lire,  and  no  open  lire  is  quite  complete  witliout  one 
them. 
AUn'I(1(je  Umbrbli^  Stand.— Go  to  a  plumbing  or  pot- 
tery shop  and  buy  a  common  red  tile,  sueh  as  used  for 
drains,  about  six  inches  across  and  three  feet  long. 
Paint  it  blue k,  t 
a  large  supply  ot 

pretty  tiiitTiIy  w „ 

til  the  Howers  and  figureslhave  the  raised   apnean 

eomctimcs  seen  on  china.    Tbenueta  lurse  earthen  i»i.- 

plate  or  meat  platter;  paint  it  ijlack  and  cover  all  but 

the  middle  of  the  dish  with  scrap  pictures  in  the  name 

manner,  and  varnisli.     When  all  is  perfectly  dry,  set  the 

tite  in  the  dish.    Then  net  a  small  bottle  of  liquid  gilding,  and  witli  a  ^mall 

camel's-hair  brush  gild  the  edge  of  the  dish  and  toji  edge  ot  the  tile.      The 

vhole   stand,  when   done,  will   cost  about  four  dollars,  and  will  be  very 

unique  and  beautiful. 

A  Child's  P«n.— It  is  not  only  troublesome 
but  very  dangerous  for  small  children  just 
able  to  tiiddle  about  and  get  into  mischief, 
to  be  tree  to  go  where  they  please.  The 
tnother,  if  she  has  the  care  of  the  house, 
can  not  safely  leave  the  oiiild  for  a  moment. 
The  pen.  which  the  cut  represents,  is  a  per- 
fect prnlertion  tor  the  ehild.  It  is  lO")  high 
to  rimib  over,  it  moves  at  ple.isnrc-  as  the 
child  walkn  about  on  llie  fliior,  and  the  mother 
is  comparatively  free  tii  i«ive  it  and  allend 
to  other  work.    \VLth  a  warm  Hannel  blnnkel 

on  the  floor  and  playthings,  it  will  amuse  it.>4'lf  a  long  time.  A  chcnf 
substitute  may  be  modeof  a  iiglit  dr>'-goods  box  witboMt  butluni,  witii  iw- 
tem  attarhed.'nnd  a  box  with  bottom  in  with  blanki-L-'  In  iHittom  is  un  i-i:' 
celleiit  place  to  put  a  child,  when  the  mother  is  necessarily  absent  fur  a 
■hort  time.    Jt  is  safe  from  harm,  even  it  it  does  cry. 

BcBBTrruTB  FOB  Cabtkbs.— Casters  on  heavy  chairs,  tables,  bed-steads,  etc., 
«re  always  getting  out  of  order,  and  are  very  destructive  to  carpets.  A  sub- 
Mitate,  which  is  a  vast  improvement  in  every  respect,  is  a  polished  halt-globe 
of  steel,  with  a  screw  projecting  from  flat  side.  This  screw  is  turned  into  the 
bottom  of  the  chair-leg,  atid  the  rounded  and  polished  surface  rests  on  the 
floor  or  carpet,  and  the  chair  ia  moved  with  ease  and  with  almost  no  wear  to 


498  HOUSEHOLD  CO.WEXIENCES. 

A  Pi-AHK  Gi'ARn.— Half  the  pleasure  of  an  open 
lire  19  !i)9t  if  cliere  is  iic)i  aome  protection  aguiaat 
sparks  that  are  mure  prone  to  Hy  out  on  tlie  car- 
pet clian  tliey  are  to  lly  upward,  liuanis  ure  now 
iiioiie  to  lit  liny  slinpf  ur  sine  of  o)>e[iing  iu  tlie 
flrvplacr,  atid  are  a,  |>crrtt:t  pnitt'i?!  ion  against 
sparks,  w bile  not  materially  Hhuttiiig  in  the  heat 
or  HRecting  ilii'  .Iraft  Tlii?  Irauit;  is  made  of 
woven  wire,  atnl  is  lined  with  gUMxe  wire. 

Imbxpsnsivb  Napkin  KiNua. — Cut  a  piece  of  can- 
vas the  Kizf  of  a  napkin  ring,  only  larger,  bo  tliat 
when  s)i(4'lieil  togcttiur  one  end  may  overlap  tlie 
other  and  lie  cut  in  pointti  or  scollops.     Work   the 
i-invas  with  beads,  worsted  or  silk,  as  fancy  may 
•HctAle,  leaving  space   for  first  natne  or  initials. 
Lino   the   canvas   with    ^ilk-covered   cardboard   and   bind  tbe   edges  with 
bright  ribl>on  to  huriuonizp  with  the  embroidery.     A  pretty  Christmas  ^ft, 
and  one  with  whii'h  the  girls  can  busy  their  lingers. 

Weatueb  Strips,— It  b  often  desira- 
ble to  close  the  crevices  of  doors  and 
windows  with  weather  strips.  There 
is  now  made,  and  kept  for  sale  at  all 
nibticr  stores,  il  strip  which  is  well  rep- 
resented irf  the  engraving,  half  an  inch 
wide,  ready  tor  tacking  to  tbe  edges 

iof  doors  or  sash.    It  is  made  of  a  nai^ 
row  rubber  sheet,  curved  over  to  form 
a  cushion,  and  sewed  to  a  thin  strip 
ot  tin.    Through  tbe  tin   atrip  tacks 
are  driven  two  or  three  inches  apart, 
foslening   the  strip  to  the  edge  of  a 
diior  or  sash,  and  the  elastic  cushion 
effectually  shuts  out  the  air,  while  not  interfering  with  the  use  of   either 
door  or  window.     It  is  sold  in  lengths  ot  twenty-five  to  fifty  feet,  coiled  as 
shown  in  right  hand  cut,  and  is  sent  by  mail  post-paid  anywiiere  at  atiotii 
five  and  a  halt  cents  a  foot.     Plenty  of  fresh  air  is  necessarj'  to  bealtli.  but  it 
is  well  to  be  able  to  control  the  currents  and  take  them  in  wJien  and  where 
they  are  warned. 

WiEK  Fi/)WKR  Stand. — There  are  tpw  la- 
dies who  are  willing  to  forego  the  pleasure 
of  having  growing  plants  or  flowers  in  living 
rooms,  and  any  contrivance  that  makes  tbe 
cnre  of  them  less  burdensome,  that  disposes 
of  them  in  a  more  compact  space,  out  of 
the  way  of  the  men  folic*,  most  of  whom 
care  more  tor  conitcrt  than  flowers,  is 
worthy  of  consideration.  There  are  many 
de»gns  in  flower  stands  now  made  in  wire, 
verv  strong  and  durable,  and  yet  light,  neat 
and  convenient.  All  are  set  on  strong  cas- 
tora,  so  as  to  be  easily  moved,  and  the  form 
represented  here  is  so  planned  that  all  the 
plants  may  be  ensily  turned  to  tbe  light  on 
all  sides.'  It  also  gives  room  for  a  large 
number  of  plants  in  a  small  space. 

Polisher  and  Stand. — A  small  neat  stand, 
made  of  coppered  iron,  with  a  surface  ot 
emery  (three  eitra  emery  pads  go  on  with 
each)  for  cleaning  starch,  etc.,  from  flat  irons. 


MANAGEMENT  OF  SERVANTS. 


"Since  the  war,"  the  great  problem  with  the  Soathern  matron  has 
been  the  Hervant  question.  Prior  to  that  date,  though  the  miBtrese  had  manv- 
trials  with  inefficient,  heedless,  and  frequently  dishonest  servants,  yet,  as  the»r 
permanent  training  was  in  her  hands,  she,  if  competent  herself,  was  likely 
to  have  a  few,  at  least,  very  capable  assistants. 

Indeed,  the  colored  cooks  and  laundresses  of  the  South  were  noted  for  their 
fikill;  many  of  them  seeming  to  "  possess  a  genius"  for  their  work.  And  if 
the  mistress  were  kind  and  generous,  she  readily  succeeded  in  attaching  her 
colored  dependents  to  herself  and  her  interests,  and  had  BomefaUhfid  as  well 
as  efficient  servants. 

Now  at  the  South  {as  it  has  so  long  been  at  the  North)  the  ** girls"  are 
birds  of  passage,  though  less  reliable  in  their  migrations,  often  coming  and 
going  with  the  weeks  instead  of  the  seasons.  The  "  treasure  "  of  to-day  leaves 
at  the  most  inopportune  hour  to-morrow;  or,  if  by  any  chance  it  suits  her 
inclination  and  convenience  to  "stop,"  she  henceforth  becomes  the  mistress^ 
her  employer  living  in  daily  dread  of  offending  and  losing  her.  Few  have 
any  idea  of  making  themselves  a  necessity  to  the  family,  aud  sharing  its 
joys  and  sorrows — it  is  only  so  much  (or  so  "  little  "}  work  for  so  much  pay — 
and  no  bond  of  sympathy  or  attachment  is  permitted  to  spring  up  on  either 
side.  When  we  look  at  the  subject  in  all  its  bearings  we  can  not  wonder 
greatly  at  the  existing  state  of  things,  deplorable  as  it  is. 

The  fixed  wages  that  prevail  in  most  towns  and  cities  offer  little  induce- 
ment to  girls  to  bc^conie  specially  expert  in  their  work.  Among  men  the 
most  skillful  workman  commands  the  highest  salary;  and  realizing  this, 
they  fit  themselves  accordingly;  but  the  superior  cook,  laundress,  or  house- 
maid (except  in  rare  cases),  gets  no  more  wages  than  the  "raw  girl,''  who 
does  not  earn  her  board  by  her  bungling  and  wasteful  style  of  work.  Until 
some  change  is  made  in  this  matter,  it  is  not  likely  that  girls  (who  usually 
do  housework  as  a  makeshift  until  they  marry  or  find  better  paying  employ- 
ment) will  care  to  render  themselves  more  competent  than  is  actually  nec- 
essary to  insure  their  pay.  A  combination  among  ladies  to  grade  wages  and 
protect  each  other  from  dishonest,  wasteful  and  incompetent  servants  would 
be  a  good  thing  for  employers  and  employees;  it  would  prove  an  incentive 
to  the  latter  to  fit  themselves  more  carefully  for  their  work.  Certain  it  is 
that  it  requires  no  small  amount  of  diplomatic  talent  to  administer  the 
household  government  now. 

It  is,  of  course,  quite  impossible  to  give  rules  to  suit  all  cases,  since  there 

(490) 


(jOO  MANA  GEMENT  OF  SER  VANTS. 

are  such  diTenities  of  characten  and  dispositions  to  be  dealt  with ;  bat  a  few 
points  are  of  prime  importance  in  engaging  a  new  servant,  and  their  ob- 
servance will  save  much  after  annoyance  and  vexation. 

She  should  be  fully  informed  as  to  her  duties,  her  wages,  how  paid,  and 
what  her  privileges  will  be.  If  she  agrees  to  your  terms,  well ;  if  not,  let  her 
go  without  regret.  If  you  engage  her,  let  her  understand  from  the  first  that 
you  are  the  mistress.  Firmnesn  here  will  save  much  future  trouble.  She 
will  be  able  to  gauge  pretty  accurately  your  powers  of  administration,  how- 
ever obtuse  she  may  be  as  to  her  own  duties  and  her  fitness  for  them. 

The  mistress  who  can  "  read  "  character  has  made  a  long  step  toward  suc- 
cessful management.  All  '^girls''  can  not  be  treated  alike ;  no  two,  indeed^ 
in  all  particulars.  While  every  good  mistress  will  desire  to  show  all  possi- 
ble kindness  to  her  dependents  (for  the  true  lady  is  ever  generous  to  her  in- 
feriors in  station,  however  haughty  to  her  equals),  she  who  understands 
human  nature  will  realize  that  to  some  "girls"  special  favors  must  be 
sparingly  and  wisely  granted,  as  they  destroy  the  usefulness  of  a  few. 

Praise,  when  deserved,  is  a  tonic  to  most;  indeed,  some  seem  to  require  it 
to  keep  them  up  to  "  concert  pitch."  Appreeiation  is  but  the  just  due  of  every 
faithful  and  conscientious  servant,  and  will  be  freely  rendered  by  the  wise 
mistress. 

It  is  difficult  to  teach  domestics  to  be  systematic,  yet  nothing  is  more  nec- 
essary. This  is  especially  true  in  the  South,  where  one  pair  of  hands  must 
perform  often  what  several  pairs  once  did.  The  mistress  herself  must  do  the 
"  head-work,"  and  arrange  the  work,  unless  she  has  an  unusually  competent 
servant. 

How  to  be  systematic,  yet  not  "  fussy,"  is  a  difficult  lesson  for  some  house- 
keepers, as  well  as  "  girls,"  to  learn.  The  immaculate  housekeeper's  home 
is  not  always  a  happy  one;  her  **  fussiness  "  destroys  the  comfort  of  all  about 
her.  The  most  efficient  housewives  do  not  make  the  most  talk  and  parade 
about  their  neatness. 

It  does  not  at  all  lubricate  the  domestic  machinery  to  "  scold  "  any  body, 
however  great  the  provocation  may  be.  (Certainly,  if  it  did  the  housekeep- 
er's excuse  for  doing  so  might  be  a  valid  one.)  A  word  of  reproof,  after  the 
irritation  has  passed  on  both  sides,  will  do  wonders  sometimes,  and  bear 
good  fruit;  but  to  speak,  if  the  least  angered,  when  theofiense  is  committed, 
is  but  adding  fuel  to  the  flame  already  burning  too  brightly.  A  very  ap- 
propriate motto  for  kitchen  and  parlor  would  be,  "  He  that  ruleth  his  spirit 
is  greater  than  he  that  taketh  a  city."  The  mistress  who  can  no^  rule  her 
own  temper  can  not  rule  others.  •  <^ 

Never  permit  family  matters  of  private  interest  to  come  to  the  ears  of  the 
servant.  It  will  take  away  half  the  annoyance  of  her  departure  to  know 
that  she  carries  nothing  with  her.  The  indiscriminate  companionship  of 
children  and  servants   that  is  often  permitted,  may  be  productive  of  much 


HINTS  TO  SERVANTS.  501 

Larm  in  Reyeral  wajs.  Children  are  very  communicative  naturally,  and  a 
''tattling'*'  girl  can  get  much  material  from  them,  out  of  which  to  manu- 
facture a  great  deal  of  goesip.  One  girl  of  this  class  can  mar  the  peace  of 
a  whole  neighborhood,  and  make  friends  enemies  for  life. 

There  are  two  sides  to  the  servant  question,  of  course,  as  to  most  others. 
Your  girl  has  some  rights  you  are  bound  to  respect.  She  has  the  inalien- 
able right  to  cherish  what  religious  opinions  she  chooses,  however  misguided 
they  may  aeem  to  be.  Care  for  the  comfort  and  neat  furnishing  of  her  room 
is  what  every  generous  mistress  will  cheerfully  give.  The  servant  will  take 
more  pride  in  the  care  of  the  rest  of  the  house,  if  she  realizes  you  are  in- 
terested enough  in  her  to  see  that  she  has  a  comfortable  chamber  for  her 
own  use. 

But,  after  all,  it  will  be  impossible  to  secure  and  ^tain  really  competent 
girls  unless  they  can  be  won  to  attachment  to  the  family  and  its  interests, 
so  that  they  will  regard  themselves  as  a  part  of  it,  with  a  future  identified 
with  its  fortunes.  If  the  house  can  really  be  made  a  home  for  the  domestic, 
as  well  as  the  family,  the  mistress  may  congratulate  herself  in  having  es- 
caped the  worst  and  most  perplexing  ills  of  the  life  of  the  American  house- 
wife. In  her  efforts  to  accomplish  this,  she  may  confidently  count  on  meet- 
ing with  many  cases  of  incompetency,  stupidity,  and  even  ingratitude;  but 
the  experiment  is  in  the  right  direction,  and  if  it  fails  of  complete  success 
can  not  be  wholly  without  good  effects. — RiUh  Soj/ai^  AUcmtOf  Qa, 

HINTS  TO  SEBYAKTB. 

Be  neat  in  person  and  dress. 

Keep  your  hands  clean  and  hair  tidy. 

Do  not  waste  time  in  gadding  about  and  gossip. 

Be  quiet,  polite  and  respectful  in  your  manners. 

Tell  the  truth  always,  out  especially  to  children. 

Do  not  spend  your  money  foolishly  in  gewgaws  of  dress. 

Always  follow  your  mistress'  plan  of  work,  or  explain  why  you  do  not. 

Keep  your  room  neat  and  orderly,  and  make  it  as  attractive  as  possible. 

Do  not  waste  any  thing.  To  waste  carelessly  is  almost  as  wrong  as  to 
steal. 

Never  tell  tales  out  of  the  family,  or  repeat  in  one  what  you  have  seen  in 
another. 

Never  break  a  promise  to  children,  and  do  not  frighten  them  with  stories, 
or  help  them  to  conceal  wrong-doing. 

Bemember  that  there  is  nothing  gained  by  slighting  work.  Doing  every 
thing  as  well  as  possible  always  saves  labor  in  housekeeping. 

Bemember  that  the  best  and  most  faithful  girls  command  the  highest 
wases,  ge#the  easiest  and  best  places,  and  never  are  out  of  employment. 

Learn  from  books  or  from  those  who  have  had  more  expen''ni>e,  the  best 
way  of  doing  work,  and  plan  to  do  it,  with  as  much  system  and  few  steps  as 
possible. 

Don't  change  employers.  There  are  trials  in  every  place,  and  it  is  better 
to  put  up  with  them,  and  make  them  as  light  as  possible,  than  to  change  to 
new  ones. 


HINTS  ABOUT  MARKETING. 


Very  few  housekeepers  understand  how  to  select  meats  wisely  or  how  to 
buy  economically.     Most  trust  the  butcher,  or  buy  at  hap-hazard,  with  no 
clear  understanding  of  what  they  want,  and  no  consideration    at  all    for 
economy;  and  yet  a  little  knowledge  of  facts,  with  a  moderate  amount  of 
experience  and  observation,  will  enable  any  one  to  buy  both  intelligenfl  j 
and  economically.    It«s  best,  when  possible,  to  buy  for  cash,    Eeady  money 
always  commands  the  best  in  the  market,  at  the  lowest  prices.     It  is  also 
better  to  buy  of  the  most  respectable  regular  dealers  in  the  neighborhood, 
than  of  transient  and  irresponsible  parties.    Apparent "  bargains  "  frequently 
turn  out  the  worst  possible  investments.    If  a  dealer  imposes  on  you,  drop 
him  at  once.     Meat  should  always  be  wiped  with  a  dry,  clean  towel  as  soon 
as  it  comes  from  the  butcher's,  and  in  loins  the  pipe  which  runs  along  the 
bone  should  be  removed,  as  it  soon  taints.    Never  buy  bruised  meat. 

When  found  necessary  to  keep  meat  longer  than  was  expected,  sprinkle 
pepper,  either  black  or  red,  over  it.  It  can  be  washed  off  easily  when  ready 
for  cooking.  Powdered  charcoal  is  excellent  to  prevent  meat  from  tainting. 
Meat  which  has  been  kept  on  ice  must  be  cooked  immediately,  but  it  is 
much  better  to  place  meats,  poultry,  game,  etc.,  by  the  side  of,  not  on,  ice, 
as  it  is  the  cold  air,  not  the  ice,  which  arrests  decay.  All  meats  except 
veal,  are  better  when  kept  a  few  days  in  a  cool  place. 


Buying  Beep,  select  that  which  is  of  a  clear  cherry-red  color  after  a  fresh 
cut  lias  been  for  a  few  moments  exix>sed  to  the  air.  The  fat  should  be  of  a 
light  straw  color,  and  the  meat  marbled  throughout  with  fat.  If  the  beef  is 
immature,  the  color  of  the  lean  part  will  be  pale  and  dull,  the  bones  small, 
and  the  fat  very  white.  High-colored,  coarse-grained  beef,  with  the  fat  a 
deep  yellow,  should  be  rejected.  In  corn-fed  beef  the  fat  is  yellowish,  while 
that  fattened  on  grasses  is  whiter.  In  cow-beef  the  fat  is  also  whiter  than 
in  ox-beef.  Inferior  meat  from  old  or  ill-fed  animals  has  a  coarse,  skinny 
fat  and  a  dark  red  lean.  Ox-.beef  is  the  sweetest  and  most  juicy,  and  the 
most  economical.  When  meat  pressed  by  the  finger  rises  up  quickly,  it  is 
prime,  but  if  the  dent  disappears  slowly,  or  remains,  it  is  inferior  ir. 
quality.  Any  greenish  tints  alx>ut  either  fat  or  lean,  or  slipperiness  of  sur- 
face, indicates  that  the  meat  has  been  kept  so  long  that  putrefaction  has  b«- 
gun.  and,  consequently,  is  unfit  for  use,  except  by  those  persons  who  prefer 
what  is  known  as  a  "high  flavor."  Tastes  diner  as  to  the  choice  cuts, 
and  butchers  cut  meat  differently.  The  tenderloin,  which  is  t^  choicest 
piece,  and  is  sometimes  removed  by  itself,  lies  under  the  short  ribs  atid  clos« 
to  the  backbone,  and  is  usually  rut  through  with  the  porterhouse  and  sir- 
loin stakes.  Of  these  the  porterhouse  is  generally  preferred,  the  part  near- 
est the  thin  bone  being  the  sweetest.  If  the  tenderloin  is  wanted,  it  may  b* 
secured  by  buying  an  edgebone  steak,  the  remainder  of  which,  after  the 
removal  of  the*^  tenderloin,  is  equal  to  the  sirloin.  The  small  porterhoaae 
(602) 


J37A2S  ABOUT  31ARKETINQ.  503 

feteaks  are  the  most  economical,  but  in  large  steaks,  the  coarse  and  ton^h 
tMirts  may  be  used  for  soup,  or,  after  boiling,  for  hash,  which,  in  spite  of  its 
Dad  repute,  is  rchlly  a  very  nice  dish  wiien  well  made.  A  round  steak, 
when  the  leg  is  not'cut  down  too  far,  is  sweet  and  juicy,  the  objection  being 
its  toughness,  U)  cancel  which  it  may  be  chopped  fine,  seasoiitiu,  and  made 
into  breakfast  croquettes.  There  is  no  waste  m  it,  and  hence  it  is  the  most 
economical  to  buy.  The  interior  portion  of  the  round  is  the  tenderest  and 
best.  Porterhouse  is  cheaper  than  sirloin,  having  less  bone.  Rump  steak 
and  round,  if  well  poundea  to  make  them  tender,  have  the  best  flavor.  The 
best  beef  for  a  la  m<xle  is  the  round;  have  the  bone  removed  and  trim 
off  all  the  gristle.  For  corned  beef,  the  round  is  also  the  best  The  roast- 
ing pieces  are  the  .sirloin  and  the  ribs,  the  lutter  Ix'ing  most  economical  at 
the  family  table,  the  bones  forming  an  excellent  basis  for  soup,  and  the  meat, 
when  boned  and  roiled  up  (which  should  be  done  by  the  butcher),  and 
roasted,  i)eing  in  good  form  for  the  carver,  as  it  enables  him  to  distribute 
equally  the  up]»er  i>art  with  the  fatter  and  more  skinny  portions.  A  roast 
served  in  this  way,  if  c<X)ked  rare,  may  be  cookotl  a  second  or  even  a  third 
time.  The  best  beef  roast  is  (for  three)  about  two  and  a  half  or  three 
pounds  of  porterhouse.  Two  or  three  pounds  is  a  great  plenty  for  three. 
TJiere  are  roasts  and  other  meats  ec^ually  good  in  the  fore-quarter  of  beef, 
but  the  proiK)rtion  of  bone  to  meat  is  greater. 

Veal  is  l)est  from  calves  not  less  than  four  nor  more  than  six  weeks  old. 
If  younger  it  is  unfit  for  foot!,  and  if  older  the  mother  cow  does  not  furnish 
enough  food,  and  it  is  apt  to  fall  away;  besides,  the  change  to  ^rass  diet 
changes  the  character  of  the  flesh,  it  becoming  darker  and  less  juicy.  The 
meat  should  be  clear  and  Arm,  and  the  fat  white.  If  dark  and  thin,  with 
tissues  hanging  loosely  about  the  bono,  it  is  not  good.  Veal  will  not  kcc])  so 
long  as  an  older  meat,  especially  in  hot  or  damp  weather,  and  when  going 
the  fat  is  soft  and  moist,  the  meat  flabby  and  spotted,  and  inclined  to  be 

Sorous  like  a  sponge.  The  hind-<iuarter  is  the  clioicest  joint.  It  is  usually 
ivided  into  two  parts,  called  the  *'loin'*  and  the  "leg.  When  the  leg  is 
laise,  it  is  divideu  into  two  joints,  and  the  thin  end  is  called  the  *' kidney 
end,"  and  the  other  the  "thick  en<l."  From  the  leg  is  cut  the  **  fillet"  ana 
"veal  cutlets."  The  "knuckle  of  veal"  is  the  part  left  after  the  "fillets" 
and  "  cutlets"  are  removed.  Many  prefer  the  "  oreast  of  veal "  for  roasting, 
stewing,  pies,  etc.  It  may  be  boned  so  as  to  roll,  or  a  large  hole  may  be  cut 
in  it  to  make  room  for  the  stulling.  The  neck  of  veal  is  used  for  stewin'g, 
fricassee,  pies,  etc.  Veal  chops  are  best  for  frying;  cutlets  are  more  apt  to  be 
tough.  Veal  should  be  avoiued  in  summer.  Though  veal  and  iamb  contain 
less  nutrition,  in  proportion  to  their  weight,  than  beef  and  mutton,  they  are 
often  preferred  to  these  latter  lueats  on  account  of  the  delicacy  of  their 
texture  and  flavor. 

Sweet-breads,  if  properly  cooked,  make  one  of  the  most  delicate  dishes 
that  can  be  put  upon  the  table;  but  some  care  must  be  takon  in  se- 
lecting them,  as  there  are  two  kinds,  and  it  is  only  one  kind  that  is  very 
good.  That  one  is  found  in  the  throat  of  the  calf,  and  when  fresh  aiul  in 
perfection  it  is  plump,  w^hite  and  fat.  The  other,  which  does  verv  well  for 
croquettes,  or  any  dish  where  it  may  be  chopped,  lies  below  the  diaphragm, 
and  is  really  the  pancreas.  However  the  sweet-breads  may  be  cooked,  they 
should  be  always  first  soaked  for  three  hours  in  cold  water,  which  should  be 
two  or  tlu|^  times  changed;  then  they  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  for 
half  an  ^Pir  or  longer,  if  that  docs  not  make  them  firm ;  then  they  may  he 
dried  iff  a  towel,  and  pressed  flat  by  putting  them  between  two  pans  or 
boards,  with  a  pressing-iron  or  other  weight  on  top. 

Mutton  should  be  fat,  and  the  fat  clear,  hard  and  white.  Beware  of  buy- 
ing mutton  with  flabby,  lean  and  yellow  fat.  An  abundance  of  fat  is  a 
source  of  waste,  but  as  the  lean  part  of  fat  mutton  is  much  more  juicy  and 
tender  than  any  other,  it  should  be  chosen.  The  longer  mutton  is  hung 
before  being  cooked,  provided  it  does  not  become  tainted,  the  better  it  is. 


504  OAME  ASD  POULTRY. 

If  a  saddle  or  hannch  of  mutton  is  washed  with  vinegar  every  day,  and 
dried  thoroughly  after  each  washing,  it  will  keep  a  gutxi  while.     In  warm 
weather  pepper  and  ground  ginger  rubbed  over  it  will  kefi>  off  flies.     The 
leg  has  the  least  fat  in  projwrtion  to  weight,  next  is  the  shoulder.     The  least 
pro{K>rtion  of  bone  is  in  the  leg.     After  the  butcher  has  cut  otf  all  lie  can  be 
persuaded  to  remove,  y<ju  wilt  still  have  to  trim  it  freely  before   broiling. 
The  lean  of  mutton  is  quite  different  from  that  of  beef. "  W'liile  beef  is  a 
bright  carnation,  mutton  is  a  deen,  dark  red.     The  hind-quarter  of  mutton  is 
best  for  roasting.    The  ribs  may  l>e  used  for  choi)S,  and  are  the  sweeter;  but 
the  leg  chojis  are  the  most  economical,  as  there  is  much  less  bone,  and  no 
hard  meat,  as  on  the  ribs.     For  mutton  roast,  choose  the  ^^holllde^,  the  sad- 
tile,  or  the  loin  or  haunch.     The  leg  should  be  boiled.    Small  rib  chops  are 
best  k)r  broiling;  those  cut  out  from  the  leg  are  generally  tough.     Mutton 
cutlets  to  bake  are  taken  from  the  neck.     Almost  any  part  will  do  for  broth. 
As  much  of  the  fat  should  be  removefl  as  practicable ;  then  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  simmered  slowly  until  the  meat  falls  to  pieces.     Drain  off  and 
skim   off  any  remaining  fat,  and  thicken  with  rice  or  vermicelli.     Mutton 
is  in  season  at  any  time,  but  is  not  so  gootl  in  autumn. 

ToNtiUE. — Beef  s  tongue,  calf's  tongue,  lamb's  and  sheep's  tongue,  pig*s 
tongue,  can  all  be  procured  of  the  butchers,  and  they  are  all  preparetl  iiv  tne 
same  way.  Calf's  tongue  is  considered  best,  but  it  is  usually  sold  with  tbe 
head;  beeve's  tongues  are  what  is  referred  to  generally  when  '* tongue" 
is  spoken  of.  Lamb's  tongues  are  very  nice.  In  purchasnig  tongues,  choose 
those  which  are  thick,  firm,  and  have  plenty  of  fat  on  the  under  side. 

To  Select  Ha.ms. — The  best  hams,  whether  corned  or  cured  and  smoked, 
are  those  from  eight  to  fifteen  pounds  in  weight,  having  a  thin  skin,  solid  fat, 
and  a  small,  short,  tapering  leg  or  shank.  In  selecting  them,  run  a  knife 
along  the  lx)ne  on  the  fleshy  side:  if  it  comes  out  clean  the  ham  is  good,  but 
if  the  knife  is  smeared  if  is  spoiled.  Hams  may  be  steamed,  bein^  careful 
to  keej)  the  water  under  the  steamer  boiling,  and  allow  twenty  minutes  to 
the  pound.     When  done,  brown  sligJitly  in  the  oven. 

Pork. — Great  care  must  be  taken  in  selecting  pork.  If  ill-fed  or  diseased, 
no  meat  is  more  injurious  to  the  health.  The  lean  must  be  fine-grained,  and 
both  fat  and  lean  very  white.  The  rind  should  be  smooth  and  cool  to  the 
touch.  If  clammy,  be  sure  the  pork  is  stale,  and  reject  it.  If  the  fat  is  full 
of  small  kernels,  it  is  an  indication  of  disease.  In  good  bacon  the  rind  is 
thin,  the  fat  firm,  and  the  lean  tender.  Rusty  bacon  has  yellow  streaks  in  it 
Fresh  pork  should  seldom  be  eaten,  and  never  except  in  the  fall  and  winter. 

Lamb  is  good  at  a  year  old,  and  more  digestible  than  most  immature 
meats.  "Spring  Lamo "  is  prized  because  unseasonable.  It  is  much  in- 
ferior to  the  best  mutton.  The  meat  should  be  light  red  and  fat.  If  not  too 
warm  weather,  it  ought  to  be  ke^t  a  day  or  two  oefore  cooking,  but  it  does 
not  keep  well.  It  is  stringy  and  indigestible  if  cooked  too  soona  fter  killing. 
The  fore-quarter  of  lamb,'if  not  fresh,  the  large  vein  in  the  neck,  whicn 
should  be  blue,  will  be  greenish  in  color.  If  the  hind-quarter  is  stale,  the 
kidney-fat  will  have  a  slight  smell. 

GAME   AND   POULTRY. 

To  preserve  game  and  poultry  in  summer,  draw  as  soon  as  possible  after 
they  are  killed,  wash  in  several  waters,  have  in  readiness  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  plunge  them  in,  drawing  them  up  and  down  by  the  legs,  ^  that  the 
water  may  pass  freely  through  them ;  do  this  for  five  minutes,  arain,  wipe 
dry,  and  hang  in  a  cold  place ;  when  i)erfectly  cold,  rub  the  insides  and 
necks  with  pepper ;  prepared  in  this  way,  they  w411  keep  two  days  in  warm 
weather;  when  used  wash  thoroughly.  Or  wash  well  m  soda-water,  rinse  in 
clear  water,  place  inside  several  pieces  of  charcoal,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and 
hang  in  a  dark,  cool  place.    The  most  delicate  birds  can  be  preserved  in  this 


GAME.  AND  POULTR Y.  505 

'way.  If  game  or  poultry  is  at  all  strong,  let  it  stand  for  several  hours  in 
"water  with  either  soda  or  charcoal ;  the  latter  will  sweeten  them  when  they 
are  apparently  spoiled.  English  or  French  cooks,  however,  never  wash  poul- 
try or  game  in  dressing,  unless  there  is  something  to  wash  off.  With  skill- 
ful dressing,  none  i.s  necessiiry  on  the  score  of  cleanliness,  and  much  washing 
tends  to  Impair  the  fine  flavor,  especially  of  game.  In  all  game  and  poultry 
the  female  is  the  choicer. 

Sportsmen  who  wish  to  keep  prairie-chickens,  pheasants,  or  wild  fowl  in 
very  hot  weather,  or  to  shu>  long  distances,  should  draw  the  bird  as  s(K)n  as 
killed,  force  down  the  throat  two  or  three  whole  peppers,  tying  a  string 
around  the  throat  above  them,  sprinkle  inside  a  little  powdered  cha'flcoal, 
and  fill  the  cavity  of  the  body  with  very  dry  grass.  Avoid  green  or  wet 
grass,  which  "  heats"  and  hastens  decay.  If  birds  are  to  be  shipped  without 
drawing,  force  a  piece  of  charcoal  into  the  vent,  and  tie  a  string  closely 
around  the  neck,  so  as  to  exclude  all  air,  and  make  a  loop  in  string  to  hang 
up  by.     Prepared  in  this  way,  they  will  bear  shipment  for  a  long  distance. 

Ducks. — Young  ducks  feel  tender  under  the  wings,  and  the  web  of  the 
foot  is  transparent;  those  with  thick,  hard  breasts  are  best.  Tame  ducks 
have  yellow  legs;  wild  ducks,  reddish  ones. 

Geese. — In  young  geese,  the  bills  and  feet  are  yellow  and  supple,  and  the 
skin  may  be  easily  broken ;  the  breast  is  plump,  and  the  fat  white;  an  old 
goose  has  red  and  hairy  legs,  and  is  unfit  for  the  table. 

Wild  Ducks,  if  fishy  and  the  flavor  is  disliked,  should  be  scalded  for  a 
few  minutes  in  salt  and  water  before  roasting.  If  the  flavor  is  very  strong, 
the  duck  may  be  skinned,  as  the  oil  in  the  skin  is  the  objectionable  part. 
After  skinning,  spread  with  butter,  and  thickly  dredge  with  flour,  before 
putting  in  a  very  quick  oven. 

Game. — In  pheasants  and  quails,  yellow  legs  and  dark  bills  are  signs  of  a 
young  bird.  They  are  in  season  in  autumn.  Pigeons  should  be  fresh,  fat 
and  tender,  and  the  feet  pliant  and  smooth.  In  prairie-chickens,  when  fresh, 
the  eyes  are  full  and  round,  not  sunken;  and,  if  young,  the  breast-bone  is 
soft  and  yields  to  pressure.  The  latter  test  also  applies  to  all  fowls  and  game 
birds.     Plover,  woodcock,  snipe,  etc.,  may  be  chosen  by  the  same  rules. 

Turkeys  are  in  season  in  fall  and  winter,  but  deteriomte  in  the  spring. 
Old  turkeys  have  long  hairs,  and  the  flesh  is  purplish  when  it  shows  under 
the  skin  6n  lesi^s  and  back;  when  good,  thry  are  white,  plump,  with  full 
breast  and  smooth,  black  legs;  and,  if  male,  soft,  loose  spurs.  The  eyes 
are  bright  and  full,  and  the  feet  are  simple,  when  fresh.  The  absence  of 
these  signs  denotes  age  and  staleness.  Hen  turkeys  are  inferior  in  flavor, 
but  are  smaller,  fatter  and  plumper.  Full-grown  turkeys  are  best  for  bon- 
ing or  boiling,  as  tlie  flesh  does  not  tear  in  dres.sing. 

Chickens,  when  fresh,  are  known  by  full,  bright  eyes,  pliable  feet,  and 
soft,  moist  skin.  Young  fowls  have  a  tender  skin,  .smooth  legs  and  conih, 
and  the  best  have  yellow  legs.  In  old  fowls,  the  legs  are  rou^h  and  hard. 
The  top  of  the  breast-bone  of  a  young  fowl  is  soft,  and  may  be  easily  bent 
with  the  ^gers;  and  the  feet  and  neck  are  large  in  proportion  to  thebody. 
The  best  pbwls  are  fat,  plump,  with  skin  nearly  white,  and  the  grain  of 
the  flesh  fine.  Old  fowls  have  long,  thin  necks  and  feet,  and  the  flesh  on 
the  legs  and  hack   has  a  purplish  shade.     Fowls  are  always  in  season. 

Venison. — The  choice  of  venison  should  be  regulated  by  the  fat,  which, 
when  the  venison  is  young,  should  be  thick,  clear  and  close,  while  the  meat 
is  a  reddish  brown.  As  it  always  begins  to  taint  first  near  the  haunches, 
run  a  knife  into  that  part;  if  tainted,  a  rank  smell  and  a  greenish  appear- 
ance will  be  perceptible.    It  may  be  kept  a  long  time,  however,  with  careful 

32 


506  FISH. 

management  and  watching,  by  the  following  process:  Wash  it  well  In  milk 
and  water,  and  dry  it  perfectly  with  a  cloth  until  there  is  not  the  least  damp 
remaining;  tlien  dust  ground  penuer  over  every  part.  Tliis  is  a  good  jire- 
servative  against  the  ny.  Tiie  nesh  of  a  female  deer,  abort  four  years  old, 
is  the  sweetest  and  best  of  venison. 

FISH. 

When  fresh,  the  eyes  of  fish  are  full  and  bright,  and  the  gills  a  fine  clear 
red,  the  body  stiff  and  the  smell  not  unpleasant.     Mackerel  nuist  be  lately 
caught,  or  it  is  very  indifferent  fish,  and  the  flavor  and  excellence  of  salmon 
dejiends  entirely  on  its  freshness.     Lobsters,  when  freshly  caught,  have  some 
mus<?ular  action  in  their  claws  which  may  be  excited  by  pressing  the  eyes. 
The  heaviest  lobsters  are  the  best.    The  male  is  thought  *o  have  the  highest 
flavor,  the  fiesli  is  firmer,  and  the  shell  has  a  brighter  red,  and  is  considered 
best  during  the  Fall  and  Spring ;  it  may  be  readily  distinguished  from  the 
female,  as  the  tail  is  narrower,  and  the  two  up{>crmost  fins,  within  the  tail, 
are  stiff  and  hard;  those  of  the  female  are  soft,  and  the  tail  broader.     The 
latter  are  prepared  for  sauces  on  accoimt  of  their  coral,  and  are  preferred 
during  the  summer,  especially  in  June  and  July.      The  head  is  used  in 
garnishing,  by  twisting  it  off  after  the  lobster  has  been  boiled  and  become 
cold.     Lobsters  ranging  from  four  pounds  are  most  delicate.     If  crabs  are 
fresh,  the   eyes  are   bright,  the  joints  of  the  legs  are  stiff,  and  the  inside 
has  an  agreeable  smell.      The  heaviest  are  the  best,  the   light  ones  being 
waterj-.     Scallops  are  not  much  used;   when  fresh,  the  shell  closes  tight; 
hard-shell  clams  are  also  closed  tight  when  fresh.    Soft-shell  clams  are  good 
only  in  cold  weather,  and  should  be  fresh.     Oysters,  if  alive  and  healthy, 
close  tight  upon  the  knife.     They  are  good  from  September  to  May. 

In  fresh-water  fish,  the  same  signs  of  freshness  are  good  tests.  Of  course, 
it  is  impossible  to  name  all  the  excellent  varieties,  as  they  differ  with  the 
locality'.  In  the  South  is  the  shad,  the  sheep's-head,  the  golden  mullet  and 
the  Spanish  mackerel,  in  the  North-west  the  luscious  brook  trout,  and  the 
wonderful  and  choice  tribes  that  people  the  inland  lakes.  Among  the  best 
of  the  fresh-water  fish,  sold  generally  in  tlie  markets  of  the  interior,  are  the 
Lake  Superior  trout  and  white  fish,  and,  coming  from  cold  waters,  they  keep 
best  of  all  fresh-water  fish  ;  the  latter  is  the  best,  most  delicate,  and  ha^  fewer 
bones,  greatly  resembling  shad.  The  wall-eyed  pike,  bass  and  i)ickerel  of 
the  inland  lakes  are  also  excellent  fish,  and  are  shipped,  packed  in  ice,- 
reaching  market  as  fresh  as  when  caught,  and  are  sold  at  moderate  prices. 
California  salmon  is  also  shipped  in  the  same  way,  and  is  sold  fresh  in  ail 
cities,  with  fresh  cod  and  other  choice  varieties  from  the  Atlantic  coast,  but 
the  long  distance  which  they  must  be  transported  makes  the  price  high. 
The  cat-fish  is  the  staple  Mississippi  River  fish,  and  is  cooked  in  various 
ways.  Lake  Superior  trout  are  the  best  fresh  fish  for  baking.  All  fish 
which  have  been  packed  in  ice  should  be  cooked  immediately  after  re- 
moval, as  they  soon  grow  soft  and  lose  their  flavor.  Stale  fish  must  never 
be  eaten.  Fresh  fish  should  be  scaled  and  cleaned  properly  on  a  dry  table, 
and  not  in  a  pan  of  water.     As  little  water  should  be  used  as  is  compatible 


VEGETABLES.  507 

with  perfect  cleanliness.  When  dressed,  place  near  ice  until  needed,  then 
remove  and  cook  immediately.  If  frozen  when  brought  from  market,  thaw 
in  ice-cold  water.  Fresh  cod,  whiting,  haddock,  and  shad  are  better  for 
being  salted  the  night  before  cooking  them,  and  the  muddy  smell  and  taste 
of  fresh-water  fish  is  removed  by  soaking,  after  cleaning,  in  strong  salt  and 
water. 

Eels  must  be  dressed  as  soon  as  possible,  or  they  lose  their  sweetness ;  cut 
off  the  head,  skin  them,  cut  them  open,  and  scrape  them  free  from  every 
string.  They  are  good  except  in  the  hottest  summer  montlis,  the  fat  ones 
being  best.  A  fine  codfish  is  thick  at  tlie  back  of  the  neck,  and  is  best  in 
cold  weather.  In  sturgeon,  the  fish  should  be  white,  the  veins  blue,  the 
grain  even  and  the  skin  tender. 

The  best  salt  mackerel  for  general  use  are  "English  mess,"  but  ** bloaters'* 
are  considered  nicer.  In  selecting  always  choose  those  which  are  thick  On 
the  belly  and  fat ;  poor  mackerel  are  always  dry.  The  salt  California  sal- 
mon are  excellent,  those  of  a  dark  rich  yellow  being  best,  lb  freshen,  place 
with  scale  side  up.  Salmon  boiled  and  served  with  egg  sauce  or  butter 
dressing  is  nice.  No.  1  white  fish  is  also  a  favorite  salt  fish,  and  will  be 
found  in  all  markets. 

A  good  deal  of  sturgeon  is  put  up  and  sold  for  smoked  halibut.  The 
skin  of  halibut  should  be  white ;  if  dark  it  is  more  likely  to  be  sturgeon. 
Smoked  salmon  should  be  firm  and  dry.  Smoked  white  fish  and  trout  are 
very  nice,  the  former  being  a  favorite  in  whatever  way  dressed.  Select 
good  firm  whole  fish.  White  fish  is  very  nice  broiled.  Each  of  the  above 
is  better  than  herring. 

VEGETABLES. 

All  vegetables  snap  crisply  when  fresh  ;  if  they  bend  and  present  a  wilted 
appearance,  tliey  are  stale.  If  wilted,  they  can  be  partly  restored  by  being 
sprinkled  with  water,  and  laid  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Potatoes  are  good  with  all  meats.  With  poultry  they  are  best  mashed. 
Sweet  potatoes  are  most  appropriate  to  roasts,  as  are  onions,  winter  squash, 
and  asparagus. 

Carrots,  parsnips,  turnips,  greens,  and  cabbage  are  eaten  with  boiled  meat^ 
and  com,  beets,  pease,  and  beans  are  appropriate  to  either  boiled  or  roasted 
meat.    Mashed  turnip  is  good  with  roasted  pork  and  with  boiled  meats. 

Tomatoes  are  good  with  every  kind  of  meat,  but  especially  so  with  roasts; 
apple  sauce  with  roast  pork,  and  cranberry  sauce  with  beef,  fowls,  veal  and 
ham. 

Currant  jelly  is  most  appropriate  with  roast  mutton  and  venison, 

Pickles  are  good  with  all  roast  meats,  and  capers  or  nasturtiums  with 
boiled  lamb  or  mutton. 

Turnips  are  not  nutritious,  being  ninety  per  cent,  water,  but  an  excellent 
food  for  those  who  are  disposed  to  eat  too  much,  as  they  correct  constipation. 

Tomatoes  are  generally  regarded  as  wholesome.  The  medium-sized 
smooth  ones  are  best. 

Cauliflowers  are  best  when  large,  solid  and  creamy.  When  stale  th# 
leaves  are  wilted  and  show  dark  spots. 


508  GROCERIES, 

Celery  stalks  sliould  be  white,  solid  and  clean.  Celery  begins  in  August, 
but  it  is  better  and  sweeier  after  frost 

E«a-PLANT  should  be  firm  but  not  rii)e.  The  large  purple  oral-shaped 
kind,  is  best. 

Mushrooms  are  dangerous  tilings  for  the  inexperienced  to  buy,  and  should 
be  let  alone. 

Pease  should  be  Imught  in  pods  arid  should  feel  cool  and  dry.  If  pods  are 
rusty  or  spotte<l,  they  are  too  oltl  to  be  gtKxl. 

Potatoes. — Select  thv)heof  medium  size,  smooth,  with  small  eyes.  To  test, 
cut  off  a  piece  of  the  large  end  ;  if  spotted,  they  are  unsound.  In  the  spring, 
when  potatoes  are  lieginning  to  bprout,  place  u  basket  of  them  in  a  tub,  pour 
boiling  water  over  them ;  in  a  moment  or  two  take  out  and  place  in  sun  to 
dry  (on  the  gra^  is  a  good  place),  and  then  return  to  cellar.  If  they  have 
sprouted  to5  much  it  i.s  best  to  lirst  rub  them  off. 

Berries. — Morning  is  the  best  time  to  eat  fruit,  and  fresh  fruit  is  then  in 
tlie  best  condition  to  be  eaten.    When  berries  of  any  kind  can  be  got  fresh 
wjth  the  morning  dew,  fill  the  finest  glass  dish,  adding  a  few  fresh  leaves,  for 
a  center-piece,  on  the  breakfast  tiible.    Serve  in  saucers  accompanied  with 
fine  white  sugar  (pulverized  is  the  best  and  most  economical  for  all  purposes) 
and  fresh  croam  if  you  have  it,  but  never  substitute  .skim  milk.    The  berries 
will  be  very  ni^e  with  only  sugar.    There  is  a  vast  difference  between  fruit 
with  cream'and  fruit  with  milk.     Cream  is  easily  digested  find  slow  to  sour, 
while  just  tlie  cmtrary  is  true  of  milk  after  the  cream  has  been  removed. 
Yet  we  have  know.i  people  to  live  after* eating  strawberries  aud  buttermilk, 
and  wo  have  also  known  people  to  die  after  eating  hot  apple  dumplings  and 
cold  milk.     If  you  happen  to  be  the  fortunate  possessor  of  a  berry  patch, 
let  the  children  go  out  before  breakfast  and  pick  and  eat.    Properly  trained 
children  will  not  abuse  this  privilege. 

GROCERIES 

8aoo. — The  small  white  sago,  called  **  pearl,"  is  best 

Raisins  sliould  be  bought  in  small  quantities;  small  boxes  are  best 

Rice. — The  Southern  rice  cooks  much  quicker,  and  is  nicer  than  the 
Indian  rice, 

Macaroni. — Good  macaroni  is  of  a  yellowish  color,  does  not  break  in  cook- 
ing and  yields  four  times  its  bulk. 

Cheese,  which  feels  soft  between  the  fingers,  is  richest  and  best,  and  should 
be  kept  in  a  box  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

Corn  Meal  does  not  keep  well  and  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities. 
South  the  w  hite  meal  is  used,  and  North  the  yellow  is  the  favorite.  Com 
is  a  heat  prxiucer  and  is  a  useful  winter  diet. 

Vinegar,  which  is  made  of  wine  or  cider,  is  the  best  Buy  a  keg,  or  half 
barrel  of  it,  and  set  it  in  the  cellar,  and  then  keep  a  supply  for  the  casters 
in  a  junk  bottle  in  the  kitchen.     If  too  strong,  vinegar  will  "eat"  pickles. 

Hard  Soap  should  be  bought  in  large  quantit^r,  and  laid  to  harden  in  bars 
piled  on  each  other.  Hard  soap  is  more  economical  than  soft,  as  it  is  not  so 
easily  wasted. 

Spices  and  Pepper  should  be  ground  fine,  and  put  in  large-mouthed  glass 
bottles,  or  kept  in  tin  cans,  in  a  dry  place.  Avoid  bright  red  peppers,  spices, 
and  saiices. 

Starch  may  also  be  bought  in  large  quantities  at  a  considerable  discount 
from  the  retail  price,  which,  in  a  large  family,  makes  a  difference  in  the 
yearly  expenses.    The  best  starch  is  the  most  economical. 

Buckwheat  Meal,  Rice  and  Hominy  should  be  purchased  in  small  qnan* 
tities,  and  kept  in  covered  kegs  or  tubs.  Several  of  these  articles  are  in- 
fested witli  black  insects,  and  an  examination  should  be  occasionally  made 
for  them. 

LARD.^Tbe  best  lard  is  made  from  leaf  fat  which  adhered  to  the  ribs  and 
belly  of  the  hog.    This  is  known  as  leaf  lard.    Most  lard  is,  however,  mada 


GROCERIES,  509 

of  both  leaf  fat  and  meat  fat,  the  latter  cut  into  small  pieces  and  rendered. 
Good  lard  should  be  white,  solid,  and  without  any  disagreeable  smell. 

Egos. — To  determine  the  exact  age  of  eggs,  dissolve  about  four  ounces  of 
common  salt  in  a  quart  of  pure  water  and  tlien  immerse  the  e^.  If  it  be 
only  a  day  or  so  old,  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  tlie  vessel,  out  if  it  bo 
three  days  old  it  will  float  in  tlie  liquid;  if  mure  than  five  it  comes  to  the 
surface,  and  rises  above  in  proportion  to  its  increased  age. 

Salt  must  l)e  kept  in  the  dryest  place  that  can  be  found.  The  best  for 
table  use  is  put  up  in  boxes,  but  if  a  quantity  bo  purchased,  it  should  bo 
stored  in  a  glass  jar,  and  closely  covered.  When  it  becomes  damp  in  the 
salt-stands,  it  should  be  set  by  the  fire  to  dry,  and  afterwards  reduced  to  fino 
])owder  again. 

Coffee  and  Tea  can  be  bought  with  advantage  in  considerable  quantitic**. 
Coffee  improves  by  age  if  kept  in  a  dry  place,  as  it  loses  its  rank  smell  and 
taste.  Several  cents  a  pound  may  be  saved  by  buying  a  bag  of  coffee  or  half 
chest  of  tea.  Tea  loses  its  flavor  if  i>ut  up  in  pajSer,  and  should  be  kept  in 
glass  or  tin,  shut  tight.  Coffee  should  be  kept  by  itself,  as  its  odor  anects 
other  articles. 

Arrowroot,  Tapioca  Sago,  Pearl-barley,  American  Tsinoless,  Maca- 
roni, Vermicelli,  and  Oat-meal,  are  all  articles  which  help  to  make  an 
agreeable  variety,  and  it  is  just  as  cheap  to  keep  a  small  quantity  of  each  as 
it  is  to  buy  a  large  quantity  of  two  or  three  articles.  Eight  or  ten  pounds 
each  of  these  articles  of  food  can  be  kept  in  covered  jars  or  covered  wooden 
boxes,  and  then  they  are  always  at  hand  when  wanted.  All  of  them  are 
very  healthful  food,  and  help  to*  form  many  delightful  dishes  for  dess,erts. 

StoARS. — Buy  sugars  for  variou.s  purposes  as  follows: 

For  baked  custard,  mince  ))ie,  squash  pie,  fruit  cake,  gingerbread,  most 
Indian  puddings,  use  brown  sugar. 

For  all  light-colored  cakes,  icing,  floating  island,  blanc-mange,  meringues, 
whips,  use  powdered  sugar. 

For  pudding  sauce,  use  powdered  ^r  brown  sugar. 

For  sweetmeats,  j^lly,  and  raspberry  vinegar,  u.se  granulated  sugar. 

Flour  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  and  the  best  is  cheapest.  The 
test  of  quality  is  given  under  bread.  Flour  is  peculiarly  sensitive  to  at- 
mospheric influence,  hence  it  should  never  be  stored  in  a  room  with  sour 
liquids  nor  where  onions  or  fish  are  kept,  nor  any  article  that  taints  the  air 
of  the  room  in  wliich  it  is  stored.  Any  smell  perceptible  to  the  sense  will 
be  absorbed  by  flour.  Avoid  damp  cellars  or  lofts  wliere  a  free  circulation 
of  air  can  not  be  obtained.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry,  airy  room,  and  not  ex- 
posed to  a  freezing  temperature  nor  to  intense  summer  or  to  artificial  heat 
for  any  length  of  time  above  70  to  72  degrees  Fahrenheit  It  should  not 
come  in  contact  with  grain  or  other  substances  which  are  liable  to  heat. 
Flour  should  be  sifted  and  the  particles  thoroughly  disintegrated,  and  then 
warmed  before  baking. 

Dressing  Poultry  for  Market. — Secure  plump,  well  fattened  fowls. 
Do  not  feed  for  at  least  24  hours  before  killing.  Open  the  veins  of  the  neck 
and  bleed  freely— thi.s  is  the  best  mode  of  killing.  Scald  enough  to  make  the 
feathers  come  off  easily,  picking  both  feathers  and  pin  feathers  off  nicely.  Be 
careful  not  to  bruise  or  break  the  skin  in  any  way,  because  it  injures  the 
sale.  Leave  all  the  entrails  in,  and  head  and'  feet*  on.  Immediately  after 
they  lu-Q  dressed,  dip  once  in  boiling  hot  water,  letting  them  rernain  in 
about  ten  seconds;  tnen  dip  into  ice-cold  water,  allowing  them  to  remain  in 
the  same  length  of  time,  then  hang  in  a  cool  place  where  they  will  dry  be- 
fore packing.  Ducks  should  he  treated  same  as  fowls  or  chickens.  Pack  in 
boxes  or  barrels  in  nice,  clean  rye  or  oat  straw.  Boxes  holding  from  100  lbs. 
to  200  lbs.  are  the  most  desirable  style  of  packages.  Pack  with  breasts  down, 
using  straw  between  each  layer. 

Be  sure  to  pack  solid,  so  they  will  not  bruise  on  the  way.  Poultry  pre- 
pared in  this  way  will  meet  v/ith  a  ready  sale,  while  poorly  dressed,  sweaty 

33 


510  FUEL. 

(caused  by  beiiiR  packed  while  warm)  and  bruised  lots  will  not  sell  at  any 
time.  Large,  fat,  dry  picked  turkeys  and  chickens  sell  well.  They  shoula 
be  picked  at  once  after  killing,  and  hung  up  until  the  animal  heat  is  entirely 
out  before  packing.  Renienil^r,  it  is  the  appearance  of  goods  that  sells  thenu 
Nice,  large,  fat,  plump  turkeys,  chickens,  ducks,  or  geese,  always  brin^  out- 
side prices. 

Tfte  best  time  to  ship. — Any  time  after  the  tenth  of  November,  so  as  to 
reach  market  by  Weunesday  or  Thursday  of  each  week.  If  sent  for  tlie 
holidays,  tliey  should  arrive  at  least  threedays  before  Thanksgiving,  Christ- 
mas or  New  Year's.  Keep  the  largest  turkeys  for  New  Year's.  Geese  sell 
best  at  Christmas. 

FUEL. 

Wood. — A  table  showing  the  comparative  value  of  various  woods  is  griven 
with  the  table  of  weights  and  measures.  That  cut  from  the  body  of  aiuaturo 
tree  is  best. 

Soft  Coal, — ^The  objection  to  soft  coal  is  the  dust  that  arises  from  it,  and 
the  unpleasant  smell  of  the  gases  of  combustion.  There  is  a  great  difference 
in  the  quality  of  soft  coals  from  different  mines,  and  it  will  be  easy  to  learn 
the  best  varieties  in  the  local  market. 

Hard  Coal. — Bad  coal  has  flat,  dull  pieces  in  it  which  remain  hard,  heavy 
and  whitish  when  burned,  called  '*  bone.''  If  in  a  scuttle  full  of  coal  weigh- 
ing twenty-five  pounds,  a  half  pound  of  these  white  pieces  are  found,  the  coal 
is  not  good.  Coal  is  pronounced  good  if  it  breaks  at  right  angles  firmly  and 
with  a  bright  fracture.  If  it  shatters  or  is  full  of  dull  pieces,  it  is  poor  in 
ouality.  There  is  a  vast  difference  in  hard  coal,  a  difference  which  lew  on- 
aerstand. 


CARVING. 

It  IB  no  trining  accomplishment  to  carve  well,  and  both  ladlea  and  gentle- 
men oaght  to  so  far  make  carving  a  study  tliat  they  may  be  able  to  perform 
the  task  with  autficient  sicill  at  ieaat  to  prevent  remark.  There  are  no  real 
difficulties  in  tliB  way  of  mastering  the  accomplishment;  knowledge  simply 
is  required.  .A.I1  displays  of  exertion  are  in  bad  taste,  because  they  inilieate 
a  want  of  ability  on  tlie  purt  of  tlie  carver,  or  arc  a  alroiig  indication  of  tJic 
... .t  .1. __  ^.._  -^o(  (j,e  ijj,^      ^  gf^^i  ^^,r^rj  ■..™i^ 

.   .   ,  ,  ,         '.I  should  be  plated  sc 

jr  that  he  lias  Cull  control  over  it;  it  tar  off  notliing  can  prevent  an 

tingraceful  appearance.  In  carving  a  turkey,  place  the  bead  lo  the  ''isht,  cut 
off  the  wing  nearest  you  firat,  then  the  leg  and  second  joint;  then  slice  the 
breast  until  a  rounded,  ivory-shaped  piece  appears;  insert  the  knife  between 
that  and  the  huneand  separate  them;  this  part  is  the  nicest  bit  of  the  breast; 
neit  conies  the  ■■  nierry-tliought"  After  this,  turn  over  the  bird  a  little, 
and  just  tielow  the  breast  you  will  find  tlie  ''oyster,"  which  you  can  separata 
u  you  did  the  inner  breast.  The  aide  bone  lies  beside  the  rump,  and  the 
desired  morsel  can  be  taken  out  without  separating  the  whole  bone.  Pro- 
ceed in  the  same  waj'  upon  the  other  side.  The  fork  need  not  be  removed 
during  the  whole  process.  An  eicperienced  carver  will  dissect  s  fowl  as 
msily  as  you  can  break  an  egg  or  cut  a  potato.  He  retains  his  seat,  manages 
his  handa  and  elbows  artistically,  and  is  perfectly  at  his  ease.  There  is  no 
difficulty  in  the  matter;  it  only  requires  knowledge  and  practice^and  these 
■hould  be  tiiu};Iit  in  the  family,  each  child  taking  his  turn.  Chickens  and 
partridges  are  carved  in  the  same  way.    The  trail  of  a  woodcock  o 


lutting  a  breast  of  veal,  separate  the 
u  up. 

Sirloin  of  Bkef.— In  carving, 
beef,  mutton,  lamb,  and  veal,  thin, 
smooth,  and  neat  slices  are  desira- 
ble— cut  OTOM  tbr  grain,  taking  care 
to  pasa  the  knife  through  to  the 
bones  of  the  lyeat.  There  are  two 
modes  of  helping  a  sirloin  of  beet; 
either  by  carving  long,  thin  slices 
from  3  to  4.  and  helping  it  with  a 
bit  ot  the  fat  underneath  the  riba, 
or  by  cutting  tiiicker  slices,   from 

SnouLDEB  OF  Mutton. — A  shoulder 
of  mutton  should  he  cut  down  to  the 
hone,  in  the  direrlion  of  the  line  1, 
and  then  thin  slices  of  lean  taken  from 
each  side.  The  best  fat  is  found  at  2 
and  should  be  cut  in  thin  slices  in  that 
direction.  Several  temptingsliceecan 
be  cut  on  either  aide  of  the  line  3.  and 
there  are  nice  bila  on  the  under  aida 
near  the  flap. 


I  to  2.  through  the  tenderloin. 


512 


CARVING, 


Ham. — A  ham  may  be  carved  in 
three  ways:  First,  by  cutting  long, 
delicate  slices,  through  the  thick  fat 
from  1  to  2,  down  to  the  bone ;  sec- 
ondly, by  running  the  point  of  the 
knife  in  the  circle  in  the  middle, 
and  cutting  thin  circular  slices,  thus 
keeping  the  ham  moist;  and  last, 
and  most  economically,  by  begin- 
ning at  the  knuckle,  4-5,  and  slicing 
upward. 

Lk«  of  Mutton. — In  carving  a 
lo^  of  mutton  the  best  slices  are  ob- 
tained froiu  the  center,  by  cutting 
from  1  to  2;  and  some  very  good 
cuts  are  found  on  the  broad  end 
from  5  to  6.  Some  epicures  prefer 
slices  nearer  the  knuckle,  but  the^ 
are  dry.  The  cramp-bone  is  a  deli- 
cacy, and  is  obtained  by  cutting 
down  to  the  bone  at  4,  ana  running 
the  knife  under  it  in  a  semicircular  direction  to  3.  The  fat  so  esteemed  by 
many  lies  on  the  ridge  5.  By  turning  over  the  meat  some  excellent  slices 
are  found,  and  can  be  cut  lengthwise. 

Tongue.  —  A  tongue  should  be 
carved  as  "  thin  as  a  wafer ; "  its  deli- 
cacy depending  in  a  great  degree 
upon  that.  A  well-cut  tongue  tempts 
the  most  fastidious;  and  this  applies, 
in  fact,  to  all  kinds  of  roast  and 
boiled  meats.  A  chunk  of  beef  we 
turn  from  with  disgust — an  artistic 
slice  we  enjoy.  The  center  slices  of 
the  tongue  are  considered  the  best, 
and  should  be  cut  across  at  the  line  1,  and  the  slices  taken  from  each  side, 
with  a  portion  of  the  fat  which  is  at  its  root,  if  it  is  liked.  I^he  question 
should  oe  asked. 

Haunch  of  Venison. — A  haunch 
of  venison  should  be  cut  across  to 
the  bone  on  the  line  1-3-2,  then  turn 
the  dish  a  little,  and  put  the  point 
of  the  knife  at  3,  and  cut  down  as 
deep  as  possible  in  the  direction  of 
S-4,  and  continue  to  cut  slices  on  the 
right  and  left  of  the  line.  The  fat- 
test parts  are  found  between  4  and  2.  A  loin  of  veal  or  a  loin  of  mutton 
should  be  jointed  by  the  butcher  before  it  is  cooked,  and  the  carver  easily 
cuts  through  the  ribs.  He  should  serve  a  portion  of  the  kidney  and  the  fat 
on  each  plate. 

In  serving  fish,  some  practice  is  needful,  for  lightness  of  touch  and  dex- 
terity of  management  are  necessary  to  prevent  the  flakes  from  breaking.  In 
serving  mackerel,  shad,  etc.,  a  part  of  the  roe  should  be  placed  on  each  plate. 
The  fins  of  the  turbot  are  the  most  sought  for ;  the  fish  is  placed  underpart 
uppermost  on  the  platter,  as  there  lies  the  primest  part.  In  carving  salmon, 
a  portion  of  the  back  and  belly  should  be  served  to  each  person.  The  choicest 
morsels  are  next  to  the  head,  the  thin  part  comes  next,  and  the  tail  is  the 
least  esteemed.  The  flavor  of  the  fish  nearest  the  bone  is  not  e<jual  to  that 
on  the  upper  part. 


HOW  TO  CUT  AND  CURE  MEATS. 


It  is  often  economical  for  a  family  (o  buy  beef  by  the  quarter,  unit 
smaller  aniioala  whole,  eapecially  when  wunted  for  winter  use,  onci  every 
faoQBekeeper  ought  to  know  bow  to  cut  up  meaU  and  to  understand  the 
uses  and  relative  value  of  Che  piecex.  It 
is  not  difficult  to  out  up  beef,  and  is  very 
easy  to  reduce  any  of  the  smaller  anliuals 
to  convenient  proportions  for  domestic  use ; 
and  in  order  to  make  the  subject  clear 
we  present  the  accompanying:  engravings, 
the  first  of  which  represents  (lie  half  of  a 
beef,  including,  of  course,  the  hind  and 
fore-quarters.  The  letters  indicate  the 
direction  in  wliich  the  cuts  should  be 
made,  beginning  in  the  order  of  the  al- 
phabet, cutting  first  from  A  tu  B,  then 
C  to  D,  etc.  In  the  fore-quarter  cut  from 
A  to  B,  from  B  to  V,  from  D  to  E,  etc. 
For  cutting,  use  a  sliarp,  long,  and  pointed 
knife,  and  a  saw  of  the  t)e9t  steel,  slmrp, 
and  .wl  for  butelier's  use.  The  beef  siiuiild 
be  laid  on  a  bench  or  table  with  the  inner 
side  up.  In  hind  quarter  1  represents  the 
"rump,"  which  is  bestcornod;  2,  "round," 
the  under  part  of  which  makes  steaks,  the 
outside  good  corning  pieces,  or  the  whole 
moy  be  used  fur  dried  beef;  3,  "shank" 
for  SoUjis;  4.  "  rump  steaks ;"  5,  "veiny 
piece"  for  dried  lieef  or  coming;  6,  sirloin, 
tlie  best  steak ;  7.  flank  for  coming  or 
slews;  S.  ]>orterhouse,  the  upper  part  of 
which  Is  equal  to  sirloin.  Cut  in  llii.t 
'  way  a  part  of  the  tenderloin,  the  choicest 

hit  of  the  beef,  lies  in  the  sirloin,  and 
a  smaller  part  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
porterhouse  steok.  In  (he  fore-quarter  I  is  tlie  "rib  piece"  for  lioiling  or 
coming;  2,  the  "plate"  piece  for  corniug;  3,  the  "fore-shank"  for  soup; 
0,  the  "rib  roast,"  first  cut;  6,  "rib  roast,"  best  cut,  and  the  best  roast  in 
the  beef;  7,  "chuck  rib  roast,"  commonly  used  for  "pot  roast;"  8,  neck 
piece,  (or  coming  or  pie  meat;  9,  best  cut  for  corn  beef. 

(5I» 


514 


HO  W  TO  CUT  AND  CURE  MEATS, 


YXAL. 


A — Loin,  best  end,  for  roasting. 

B — Loin,  chump  end,  for  roasting. 

O — Fillet,  for  baking  or  roasting. 

I)— KBucklCf  for  stewing. 

E — Fore-knuckle,  for  stewing. 

F — Neck,  best  end,  for  roasting. 

G — Neck,  scrag  end,  for  stewing. 

H — Blade  bone. 

I — Breast,  for  stewing. 

K — Brisket,  for  stewing. 


FOBS. 


A— Back,  lean  part  for  roast 
B — Loin,  for  roast. 
C — Bacon,  to  be  cured. 
D — Shoulder,  to  be  cured. 
E — Ham,  to  be  cured. 


MUTTON. 


A— Leg,  for  boiling  piece. 

B — Loin,  for  roast. 

C — Rump  piece,  for  roast 

D — Chops,  frying  or  broiling. 

E— Fore-shoulder  for  boiling. 

F — Neck,  for  stewing  or  roasting. 

G — Brisket,  for  stewing. 


Spiced  Corned  Beef. — To  ten  pounds  beef,  take  two  cups  salt,  two  cupa 
tnolHsses,  two  table-spoons  saltpeter,  one  table-spoon  ground  pepper,  one  ta- 
ble-siK)on  cloves ;  rub  well  into  the  beef,  turn  every  day,  and  rub  the  mixture 
i:i :  will  be  ready  for  use  in  ten  days. 

To  Keep  Hams  after  Curing. — Cut  hams  in  slices  suitable  for  cooking, 
trim  off  the  rind,  and  pack  as  compactly  as  possible  in  a  stone  jar;  over  tl^ 
toi>  pour  molted  lard,  so  as  to  completely  exclude  the  air.  When  ham  is 
wanted  for  use,  scrai)e  off  the  lard,  remove  a  layer  of  meat,  and  always  he 
particular  to  melt  the  lard  and  return  it  immediately  to  the  jar.  It  will  keep 
through  the  season. 

A  New  Way  to  Smoke  Hams. — Smoke  the  barrel^  in  which  the  hams  are 
to  be  pickled,  bv  inverting  it  over  a  kettle  containing  a  slow  fire  of  hard 
wood,  for  eight  days  (keeping  water  on  the  head  to  prevent  shrinking);  in 
this  barrel  pack  the  hams,  and  pour  over  them,  after  it  has  cooled,  a  brine 
made  in  the  profwrtion  of  four  gallons  of  water,  eight  pounds  of  salt,  five 
pints  of  molasse.«>,  and  four  ounces  saltpetre,  boiled  and  skimmed  in  the 


HOW  TO  CUT  AND  CURE  MEATS.  515 

usaal  manner.    They  will  be  cured  in  eight  or  nine  days,  and  they  may  be 
kept  in  the  pickle  for  a  year  without  damage. 

To  Keep  Lard  from  Molding. — Use  a  tub  that  has  had  no  tainted  lard 
or  meat  in  it;  scour  it  out  thoroughly  with  two  quarts  of  wheat  bran  to  four 
of  boiling  water,  but  use  no  lye  of  soap.  Fry  the  lard  until  the  scraps  are 
brown,  but  not  scorched  or  burned ;  remove  from  the  fire,  cool  until  it  can 
be  handled,  and  strain  into  the  prepared  tub;  when  cold,  set  it  away  in  the 
cellar.  Lard  dipped  off  as  fast  tis  it  melts  will  look  very  white,  but  will  not 
keep  through  the  summer.  No  salt  should  be  added,  as  it  induces  moisture 
and  invites  mold. 

To  Keep  Meat  Fresh  in  Hot  Weather. — For  a  five-pound  piece  of  meat 
take  a  three-gallon  stone  crock ;  have  some  pans  of  skimmed  milk  that  is 
taming  sour,  just  getting  thick;  put  some  of  the  milk  in  the  crock;  then 
put  in  the  meat;  then  put  in  milk  till  it  covers  the  meat;  now  turn  an 
earthen  dish  or  plate  bottom-up  on  the  meat  to  hold  it  down;  fill  the  crock 
with  the  milk ;  tie  a  cloth  over  the  top,  and  set  in  a  cool  place ;  it  will  keep 
five  or  six  days  in  the  hottest  weather.  When  wanted  for  use,  wash  thor* 
oughly  in  water,  and  cook  in  any  manner  desired. 

To  Keep  Hams. — For  one  hundred  ix)unds  of  meat,  take  eight  pounds  of 
salt,  two  ounces  saltpetre,  and  four  gallons  water;  put  hams  in  this  pickle 
in  the  fall,  keeping  them  well  under  the  brine ;  in  April,  take  out,  drain  three 
or  four  days,  slice  as  for  cooking,  fry  nearly  as  much  as  for  table,  pack  in. 
stone  jars,  pressing  down  the  slices  as  fast  as  they  are  laid  in  the  jars;  whea 
full,  put  on  a  weight,  and  when  entirely  cold  cover  with  the  fat  fried  out. 
Prepared  in  this  way,  they  retain  the  ham  flavor  without  being  smoked.  The 
gravy  left  from  frying  will  be  found  verv  useful  in  cooking. 

To  Cure  Hams. — In  the  fall,  about  tlie  first  of  Novemuer,  people  in  the 
country  generally  kill  a  ^ood-sized  pig,  to  last  until  "butchering  time."  To 
cure  the  nams  of  such,  first  rub  well,  es])ecially  around  the  bone  on  fleshy 
side,  with  one-half  of  the  salt,  sug^r,  cavenne  and  salti)€tre,  well  pulverized 
(same  proportions  as  for  corned-beef ),  adding  a  teasi>oon  of  allspice  to  each 
ham ;  put  a  layer  of  salt  in  bottom  of  cask,  and  pack  in  hams  as  closely  as 
possible;  let  stand  three  or  four  days,  then  make  a  brine  of  the  other  half 
of  salt,  etc.,  and  jwur  over  meat,  putting  a  good  weight  on  top ;  when  it  has 
lain  three  or  four  weeks  it  is  ready  for  use. 

To  Cure  and  Dry  Beep  Tongues. — For  one  dozen  tongues  make  a  brine 
of  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water  (or  enough  to  cover  them  well),  two  pints  good 
salt,  one  of  molasses,  or  one  pound  brown  sugar,  and  four  red  peppers ;  bring 
to  a  boil,  skin,  and  set  to  cool.  Pack  the  tongues  in  a  large  jar,  and  when 
the  brine  is  entirely  cold,  pour  it  over  them,  put  on  a  weignt,  let  remain 
ten  or  twelve  days,  take  out,  drain,  and  hang  to  smoke  about  two  days,  then 
dry  moderately,  and  put  away  in  a  flour  sack  in  a  dry  place.  When  wanted 
for  use,  boil  six  or  eight  hours  in  a  pot  filled  with  water,  adding  more  when 
necessary  so  as  to  keep  well  covered  all  the  time  until  done ;  when  done, 
take  out' and  set  away  to  cool,  but  do  not  skin  till  needed  for  the  table. 

Sausage. — For  ten  |X)unds  meat  take  five  table8j)oons  sage,  four  of  salt 
and  two  of  pepper.  Some  add  one  tablespoon  ginger,  and  some  a  little 
summer  savory.  When  nicely  minocd,  pack  in  jars,  and  treat  precisely  as  in 
preceding  recipe — **To  Keep  Hams."  If  kept  in  a  cool  place,  and  care 
taken  to  replace  the  lard,  there  is  no  difliculty  in  keeping  sausage  perfectly 
fresh  almost  any  length  of  time.  Some  persons  partially  cook  meat  before 
packing,  but  this  is  not  necessary.  Fresh  meat  may  be  kept  nicely  in  the 
same  way,  being  first  seasoned  with  salt  and  ))e))per. 

Or,  one  pound  salt,  one-half  pint  of  sage  and  three  and  one-half  ounces 
pepper,  scattered  over  forty  pounds  of  meat  before  grinding. 

£eef-8Teak  for  Winter  Use. — Cut  the  steak  large,  and  the  usual  thick- 
ness; have  ready  a  mixture  made  of  salt,  sugar  and  finely  powdered  salt- 
petre, mixed  in  the  same  proportion  as  for  corning  beef;  sprinkle  the  bottom 
of  a  large  jar  with  salt,  lay  in  a  piece  of  steak,  and  sprinkle  over  it  some  of 


516  HOW  TO  CUT  ASD  CURE  MEATS. 

the  mixture,  as  much  or  a  little  more  than  you  would  use  to  season  in  cook- 
ing, tlien  put  in  another  slice,  sprinkle,  and  so  on  till  jar  is  filled,  with  a 
sprinkle  of  the  mixture  on  ton;  over  all,  put  a  plate,  with  a  wei|?bt  on  it, 
and  set  in  a  cool,  airy  place,  wliere  it  wiil  not  freeze.  This  needs  no  brine, 
as  it  makes  a  brine  of  its  own.  Twenty-five  or  thirty  i)Ounds  may  be  kept 
perfectly  sweet  in  this  wa}'.  Take  out  to  u.se  as  wanted,  and  broil  or  fry  as 
usual.  *  • 

Virginia  8al'.'<a({e  Meat. — Pick  the  sausajre  meat  to  get  out  all  the  pieces 
of  bones  and  strinjrs;  wa.sh  it  in  lukewarm  water,  and  lay  on  a  table  to 
drain  ;  let  it  stand  uH  nijrht.  Take  oft'  .*?oine  of  the  fat  from  the  backbone  to 
mix  with  the  lean,  if  you  use  ''leaf  fat"  when  you  fry  the  sausage,  it  will 
Molt  away  to  gravy  and  leave  a  little  knot  of  lean,  hard'and  dry,  floating  in 
1  sea  of  melted  grease.  The  fat  must  be  taken  ofl'  before  the  chines  are 
sahed,  and  washed,  skinned  and  put  to  drain  with  the  lean.  Next  day,  choj« 
it  fine,  picking  out  all  the  strings.  When  fine  enough,  season  it  with  salt. 
sage,  black  and  red  peijper,  to  taste.  Pack  it  in  a  close  vessel.  If  you  wish 
to  stuff  them,  have  some  nicely-cleaned  chitterlings  kept  in  salt  and  water 
ten  days  or  a  fortnight.  Stufi*,  hang  on  sticks  and  dry.  A  little  smoke  im- 
proves them  ;  too  much  makes  them  bitter. 

To  Salt  Pork. — Allow  the  meat  to  stand  until  the  animal  heat  is  entirely 
out  of  it;  cut  the  sides  into  strips  crosswise;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  barrel 
with  salt,  and  pack  in  the  pork  closely  edj^ewise,  with  rind  next  the  barrel: 
cover  each  layer  with  salt,  and  proceed  in  like  manner  until  all  has  been  put 
in.  Make  a  strong  brine  sufficient  to  cover  the  pork  (soft  water  is  best,  and 
there  is  no  danger  of  getting  it  too  salt),  boil,  SKim  and  pour  into  the  barrel 
while  bailing  hot.  Have  a  board  cut  out  round,  a  little  smaller  than  the  bar- 
rel, put  over  the  pork,  and  on  it  place  a  weight  heavy  enough  to  keep  it 
always  under  the  brine.  If  at  any  time  the  orine  froths  or  looks  rea,  it 
must  be  turned  ofl^,  scalded  and  returned  while  hat.  Never  put  cold  brine  on 
old  pork,  unless  you  wish  to  lose  it.  In  salting  down  a  new  supply  of  pork, 
boil  down  the  old  brine,  remove  the  scum,  and  then  pour  it  over  the  pork  aa 
directed  above. 

Trying  Lard. — Cut  the  fat  into  small  pieces,  put  into  kettle,  and  pour  in 
enough  water  to  cover  the  bottom ;  boil  gently  until  the  "  scraps"  settle,  or 
until  the  water  has  all  evaporated,  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning.  Take 
off,  strain  into  stone  jars,  and  set  in  a  coot  place.  The  quality  of  the  lard  is 
improved  by  sprinkling  over  and  slowly  stirring  in  one  tablespoon  of  sods  to 
every  five  gallons  of  lard,  just  before  removing  from  the  fire.  After  adding 
soda*,  the  kettle  must  be  removed  from  the  stove,  and  watched  closely,  ana 
stirred  constantly,  as  it  foams  rapidly,  and  is  very  likely  to  run  over,  and, 
if  on  stove,  is  likely  to  take  fire.  The  leaf  should  be  tried  by  itself  for  the 
nicest  cooking.  That  from  the  smaller  intestines,  and  the  flabby  pieces,  not 
fit  for  salting,  should  be  thrown  into  lukewarm  water  and  allowed  to  stand 
for  twenty-four  hours,  and  then  should  be  tried  by  itself,  and  the  lard  set 
away  where  it  will  freeze,  and,  by  spring,  the  strong  taste  will  be  gone.  A 
tca-cup.of  water  prevents  burning  while  trying. 

How  TO  Cut  up  Pork.— Split  through  the  spine,  cut  off  each  half  of  head 
behind  the  ear,  remove  the  pieces  in  front  of  the  shoulder,  for  sausaee. 
Take  out  feaf  which  lies  around  kindeys,  for  lard ;  cut  out  tlie  lean  meat,  ribs, 
etc..  then  tne  ham  and  shoulder,  and  remove  the  loose  pieces  directly  in 
front  of  the  ham,  for  lard.  Cut  off  a  narrow  strip  of  the  belly,  for  sausage; 
and  cut  up  the  remainder,  which  is  clear  pork,  into  five  or  six  strips  of 
about  equal  width,  for  salting  down.  Smoke  the  jowl  with  hams,  ana  use 
the  upper  part  of  the  head  for  boiling,  or  baking,  or  head-cheese. 

Scorch  the  feet  over  the  fire  until  the  hoofs  remove  easily,  scrape  clean, 
place  in  hot  water  a  few  minutes,  wash  and  scrape  thoroughly,  and  they  are 
ready  for  cooking. 

All  the  flabby  pieces  shouldTbe  tried  up  for  lard.  Remove  all  fat  from  in- 
testines, saving  that  which  does  not  easily  come  off  the  larger  intestines  for 


HOW  TO  CUT  AND  CURE  MEATS,  517 

• 

soap-grease.  The  liver,  heart,  sweet-hreads  and  kidneys  are  all  used  for  boil- 
ing or  frying,  and  the  smaller  intestines  are  sometimes  used  for  sausage  cases. 

The  Despabd  Red  Round. — A  round  of  beef  weighing  twenty-five  pounds, 
one  ounce  of  cloves,  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  three  ounces  of  coarse  su^r, 
half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  six  ounces  of  common  salt,  one  nutmeg.  The 
beef  should  hang  two  or  thee  days ;  then  take  out  the  bone,  rub  the  spicks 
and  salt  thoroughly  together,  and  rub  them  well  into  the  beef  on  both  sides; 
cover  the  beef,  turn  and  rub  it  every  day  for  from  two  to  three  weeks. 
When  you  wish  to  use  it,  dip  it  in  cold  water  to  remove  the  loose  spice ;  bind 
it  closely  several  times  around  the  sides  with  a  long  strip  of  cotton  cloth  two 
inches  wide;  put  it  in  a  pan  with  half  a  pint  of  water  m  the  bottom  to  pre- 
vent burning;  cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with  shred  suet,  and  cover  the  pan 
with  a  crust  half  an  inch  thick,  made  of  water  and  Graham  or  other  flour, 
seeing  that  it  adheres  to  the  edge  of  the  pan.  Lay  a  brown  paper  over  the 
crust;  bake  it  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours.  The  gravy,  of  wnich  there  will 
be  a  large  quantity,  may  be  used  in  soup,  in  beef-pie,  or  in  hash.  The  place 
from  which  the  bone  was  taken  may  be  rub)>ed  with  fine  chopped  parsley, 
and  sweet  herbs  may  be  laid  between  the  skin  and  the  meat. 

To  Clear  Beep  Tripe. — Empty  the  paunch,  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  cold 
water,  being  careful  not  to  let  any  or  the  contents  get  on  the  outside. 
Make  strong  cleansed  water  or  white  lye,  let  it  heat  a  little,  too  warm  to 
hold  the  hands  in,  pour  it  over  tlie  tripe  in  a  tub,  let  it  stand  two  or  three 
hours,  then  tack  it  up  against  a  board,  and  with  a  knife  scrape  downwards, 
taking  off  the  inner  sKin,  or  rinse  it  clean  in  cold  water;  sprinkle  lime  over, 
put  in  a  tub,  cover  with  warm  water,  and  let  it  stand  two  or  three  houre, 
then  scrape  it  with  a  knife ;  if  the  dark  does  not  all  come  off  easil3%  sprinkle 
more  lime  on,  and  let  it  lie  for  an  hour  longer,  then  scrape  again,  and  rinse 
in  cold  water  until  clean.  Place  it  in  water  enough  to  cover  with  a  large 
handful  of  salt,  let  it  remain  in  the  salt  water  three  days  and  nights,  chang- 
ing it  each  day,  then  take  it  out)  cut  in  pieces  about  six  inches  wide  and 
twelve  long,  lay  in  buttermilk  for  a  few  hours  to  whiten;  then  rinse  it  clean 
in  cold  water,  and  boil  until  tender;  it  will  tiike  from  four  to  ten  hours,  aa 
it  should  be  done  so  that  it  can  be  mashed  with  the  fingers.  After  thus  pre* 
pared  it  can  be  cooked  as  preferred. 

To  Cure  Hams  AtND  Bacon. — When  killed  and  cool  cut  up,  and  begin  im- 
mediately to  salt  them.  Rub  the  outside  of  each  ham  witn  a  teaspoon  of 
powdered  saltpetre,  and  the  inside  with  a  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Hav- 
ing mixed  together  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  salt,  mixed  m  tne  propor- 
tion of  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  salt,  rub  the  i)ork  well 
with  it.  This  qtiantity  of  sugar  and  salt  will  be  sufficient  for  fifty  pounds 
of  meat.  Have  ready  some  large  tubs,  the  bottom  sprinkled  with  salt,  and 
lay  the  meat  in  the  tubs  with  the  skin  downward.  Put  plenty  of  stilt  be- 
tween each  laypr  of  meat.  After  it  has  lain  eight  days,  take  it  out  and  wipe 
off  the  salt,  and  wtush  tlie  tubs.  Make  a  pickle  of  soft  water,  equal  quanti- 
ties of  salt  and  molasses  and  a  little  .saltpetre ;  allowing  five  ounces  of  salt|)etre 
to  two  quarts  of  molasses  and  two  quarts  of  salt,  which  is  the  proportion  for 
fifty  pountls  of  meat.  The  pickle  must  he  strong  enough  to  hear  up  an  egg. 
Boil  and  skim  it,  an<l,  when  it  is  cold,  pour  it  over  the  meat,  which  must  he. 
turneii  frequently  and  basted  with  the  pickle.  The  hauLs  should  remain  in 
the  pickle  at  least  four  weeks;  the  bacon  three  weeks.  They  should  then 
be  taken  out  and  smoked.  Having  washed  off  the  pickle,  before  you  smoke 
the  meat,  bury  it  while  wet  in  a  tub  of  hran.  This  will  form  a  criist  over  it, 
and  prevent  evap)ratk)n  of  the  juices.  Let  the  smoke-house  be  readv  to 
receive  the  meat  immediately.  Take  it  out  of  the  tub  after  it  has  lain  half 
an  hour,  and  rub  the  hran  evenly  over  it.  Then  liang  it  up  to  smoke  "with 
the  small  end  downwanl.    Tongues  may  be  cured  in  the  above  manner. 

Brine  for  Beef,  Hams  and  SiiorLnERs. — To  one  hundred  pounds  beef, 
take  eight  pounds  salt,  five  of  sugar  or  five  pints  molasses  (Orleans  best,  but 
•ny  good  will  do),  two  ounces  soda,  one  ounce  saltpeter,  four  gallons  soft 


518  HOW  TO  CUT  AXD  CURE  MEATS. 

water,  or  enough  to  cover  the  meat.  Mix  part  of  tlie  salt  and  sugar  together^ 
rub  each  piece  and  place  it  in  the  barrel  (oak  is  best),  having  covered  the  bot- 
tom with  salt.  When  the  meat  is  all  in,  put  the  remainder  of  salt  and  sugar 
in  the  water.  Dissolve  the  soda  and  saltpeter  in  hot  water,  add  it  to  the  brine 
and  pour  over  the  meat;  place  a  board  on  top  of  meat,  with  a  weight  sufii- 
cient  to  keep  it  under  the  hrine.  Let  the  pieces  intended  for  dried  beef  re- 
main in  the  brine  for  three  weeks,  take  out,  place  in  a  tub,  cover  with  water, 
let  stand  over  night,  string  and  dry.  String  it  (smoke  for  a  few  days,  if  you 
like),  hang  it  up  to  ceiling  over  the  kitchen  stove,  or  on  a  frame  set  Ijehind 
the  st<jve,  turn  round  once  a  day  so  as  to  give  all  parts  an  equal  exposure, 
and  let  remain  for  three  or  four  weeks.  Test  by  cutting  a  piece,  which 
.sliould  be  well  dried  on  the  outsi<ie,  and  froe  from  raw^ness  to  the  center. 
When  dried,  sprinkle  with  ground  black  pepper,  put  in  paper  sacks,  tie  up 
lightly,  and  hang  in  a  C(K)1,  dry,  dark  place,  or  put,  without  sacks,  in  an  empty 
flour  barrel,  and  cover  closely.  Boil  hrine,  skim  well,  let  cool,  and  pour  orer 
the  bonv  pieces  left.  Those  are  good  boiled  and  eaten  either  hot  or  cold,  and 
thev  will  Keep  good  for  several  months.  Tongue  may  be  pickled  with  the 
beel. 

Brine  made  the  same  way,  with  the  addition  of  two  pounds  more  of  salt, 
is  good  for  hams  and  shoulders.    Take  part  of  the  mixture  of  salt  and  sugar, 
rub  each  piece  thoroughly  on  fleshy  side,  lay  in  barrel  (having  first  covered 
the  bottom  with  salt)  skin  side  down.     When  all  are  in,  make  a  pickle  of  the 
remainder  of  the  mixture,  as  directed  in  "Brine  for  Beef,"  pour  over  the 
meat;  have  a  round  board,  a  little  smaller  than  the  barrel,  place  on  the  meat 
with  a  weight  (a  large  stone  is  good,  W'hich  may  be  w^ashed  clean  and  laid 
away  to  be  used  year  after  year),  sufficient  to  keep  it  under  the  brine;  let 
remain  from  four  to  eight  weeks,  according  to  size;  take  out,  drain,  sprinkle 
with  cayenne  penper,  particularly  around  the  bone.     Hang  them  ready  to 
smoke,  let  them  urain  for  two  days,  and  then  smoke  with  corn  cobs  or  green 
hickory  or  maple  wood,  taking  care  to  have  smoke,  bvt  not  fire  enough  to  vmke 
heat.    Hang  up  to  smoke  with  hock  downwards,  as  the  skin  then  retains  the 
juices  of  the  meat.     After  smoking  four  weeks  take  down,  sprinkle  with 
ground  black  pepper,  tie  tightly,  in  whole  paper  sacks,  hang  in  a  dry,  dark, 
cool  place,  watching  closely  for  fear  of  mold.     Or,  wrap  in  paper,  sew  in  a. 
coarse,  cotton  bag,  whitewash  on  the  outside  and  hang  near  the  roof  in  the 
garret;  or,  wrap  in  brown  i)aper,  and  cover  with  dry  ashes  {dry  leached  ashes 
are  best);   or,  pack  without  sacks,  hock  end  upixM-most,  in  oats  or  shelled 
corn,  or  in  clean,  sweet  hay,  before  tlics  come.    Cover  box  or  barrel  closely, 
i.nd  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place.     If  there  is  any  danger  from  flies,  take  direct 
from  smoke-house  and   pack  immediately.     Brine  for  pickled  pork  should 
have  all  the  salt  it  will  dissolve,  and  a  peck  or  half  bushel  in  bottom  oi  bar- 
rel.    If  pork  is  salted  in  this  manner  it  will  never  siwil,  but  the  strength  of 
the  brine  makes  it  necessary  to  salt  the  hams  and  side  meats  separately. 
Pork  when  killed  should  be  tfwroughh/  cooled  before  salting,  but  should  nf»t  re- 
main longer  than  one  or  two  days.     It  should  never  be  frozen  before  .salting, 
!i.s  this  is  as  injurious  as  saltitig  before  it  is  cooled.     Large  Quantities  of  ix)rk 
.re  lost  by  failing  to  observe  these  rules.     If  pickled  pork  begins  to  sour, 
t  ike  it  out  of  the  brine,  rinse  well  in  clear,  cold  water,  place  a  layer  in  a  bar- 
rel, on  this  place  charcoal  in  lumps  tlie  size  of  a  hen's  egg  or  smaller,  add  a 
layer  of  meat  and  so  on,  until  all  is  in  the  barrel,  cover  with  a  weak  brine, 
let  stand  twenty-four  hours ;  take  meat  out,  rim<e  off  the  charcoal,  put  it  into 
a  new  strong  brine,  remembering  always  to  have  plenty  of  salt  in  the  barrel 
(more  than  the  water  will  dissolve).     If  the  same  barrel  is  used,  cleanse  it  bv 
placing  a  small  quantity  of  quicklime  in  it,  .slack  with  hot  water,  add  as  much 
salt  as  the  water  will  "dissolve,  and  cover  tightly  to  keep  the  steam  in;  let 
stand  for  a  few  hours  or  over  night,  rinse  well,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.     Thi* 
is  an  excellent  way  to  cleanse  any  barrel  that  has  become  impure.    The  pork 
must  not  be  salted  in  whisky  barrels;  molasses  barrels  are  the  best.    The 
whisky  is  said  to  injure  the  baron. — II  Biixton. 


HINTS  ON  BUTTER-MAKING. 


No  sloven  can  make  good  butter.  The  one  thing  to  be  kept  in  mindi  moni«> 
ing,  noon,  and  night,  is  neatness,  neatness,  neatness.  The  milking  should 
be  done  in  the  cleanest  place  that  can  be  found,  and  the  cows  should  be  kept 
as  clean  as  possible.  Wash  the  teats  and  udden  thoroughly  with  plenty  of 
cold  water,  and  wipe  with  a  cloth  or  towel.  Never  wash  with  the  hand 
moistened  with  milk  from  the  cow.  The  least  impurity  taints  the  cream, 
and  takes  from  the  sweetness  of  the  butter.  Milk  perfectly  clean  (as  the 
last  quart  is  twice  as  rich  in  butter  as  the  first),  and  the  quicker  the  milking 
is  done  the  more  milk  is  obtained.  The  milk-room  should  be  clean  and 
sweet,  its  air  pure,  and  temperature  about  62  degreea  As  soon  as  a  pail  is 
filled,  take  to  the  milk-room  and  strain  the  milk  through  a  fine  wire-cloth 
strainer,  kept  for  the  purpose,  and  not  attached  to  the  pail  (the  simple 
strainer  being  more  easily  kept  clean).  Never  allow  milk  to  stand  in  tho 
stable  and  cool,  as  it  absorbs  the  foul  o<lorsof  the  place.  The  pans  (flat  stone 
crocks  with  flaring  sides  are  better  than  tin  pans.  In  winter  hot  water 
should  be  poured  into  them  while  milking  is  being  done,  and  poured  out 
just  before  straining  the  milk  into  them)  should  be  set  on  slats,  rather  than 
shelves,  as  it  is  important  to  have  the  milk  cooled  from  the  animal  heat  as 
soon  as  possible.  Skim  each  day.  or  at  longest  within  twenty-four  hours. 
Souring  does  not  injure  the  quality  of  the  cream,  but  the  milk  should  not 
be  allowed  to  become  watery.  Do  not  use  a  perforated  skimmer,  but  re- 
move a  little  of  the  milk  with  the  cream,  as  this  does  not  injure  the  quality 
or  lessen  the  quantity  of  butter,  and  gives  more  well-flavored  buttermilk, 
which  is  a  favorite  and  wholesome  drink.  If  there  is  cream  enough  each 
day,  it  should,  of  course,  be  churned,  and  this  plan  makes  the  best  butter, 
although  it  takes  longer  to  chum  it.  If  not,  the  cream  should  be  set  aside 
in  a  cool  place,  covered,  and  stirred  thoroughly  whenever  more  is  added.  It 
ought  not  to  stand  more  than  two  days,  and  mu.st  not  be  allowe<l  to  become 
bitter  and  flaky.  The  best  plan  is  to  churn  as  soon  as  it  becomes  slightly 
acid.  Scald  the  churn  and  dash  thoroughly,  and  put  in  the  cream  at  a  tem- 
perature of  !yS  degrees.  The  motion  of  the  churn  will  soon  bring  it  up  to 
about  60  degrees.  When  the  butter  comes  put  a  quart  or  two  of  cold,  soft 
water  (or  ice  is  better)  into  the  churn  to  harden  the  butter,  and  make  it 
•easier  to  gather  up.  After  gathering  it  as  well  as  possible  with  the  dash,  it 
should  be  removed  to  the  table  or  bowl,  and  thoroughly  worked  with  a  flat 
wooden  paddle,  (never  with  the  hand,  as  the  insensible  perspiration  will 
more  or  less  taint  the  butter),  using  an  abundance  of  cold  goft  water  to  wash 
out  the  buttermilk  and  harden  the  butter.  By  this  process  the  buttermilk 
is  removed  quickly,  and  there  is  no  need  of  excessive  working,  which  in- 
jures the  grain  of  the  butter.    This  is  especially  true  of  that  which  is  to  be 

(61Sl> 


520  HINTS  ON  BUTTER-MAKINO. 

packed,  as  it  keeps  longer  when  well  washed.    If  to  be  used  immediately, 
the  washing  may  be  less  thorough.     Another  and  better  plan  is  to  remove 
the  butter  to  a  marble  slab  and  lay  on  the  top  of  it  a  piece  of  ice.     As  it 
settles  down  by  its  own  weight,  work  it  up  around  the  edges  with  the  paddle, 
and  the  water  from  tlio  melting  ice  will  wash  out  and  carry  off  the  butter- 
milk.    Before  or  during  the  churning,  the  bowl  (which  should  never   be 
used  for  any  thing  else)  in  which  the  butter  is  to  be  salted,  should  be  filled 
with  scalding  water,  which  should  remain  for  ten  minutes;  pour  out  and 
rub  both  bowl  and  paddle  with  hard  coarse  salt,  which  prevents  butter  from 
sticking.    Rinse  thoroughly  and  fill  with  cold  or  ice-water  to  cool.     After 
washing  butter  free  from  milk,  remove  to  this  bowl,  having  first  poured  out 
the  cold  water,  and  (thq  butter-bowl  and  paddle  should  occasionally   be 
scoured  with  sand  or  ashes,  washed  thoroughly  with  soap-suds,  and  rinsed 
until  all  smell  of  soap  has  disappeared)  work  in  gradually  salt  which  has 
been  pulverized  by  rolling,  and  freed  from  foreign  substances.     If  wanted 
for  use,  one-half  ounce  of  salt  to  the  pound  of  butter  is  sufficient,  but  if 
wanted  for  packing,  use  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  or  even  an  ounce  of  salt 
Use  only  the  best  quality  of  dairy  salt.    After  salting,  cover  with  cotton 
cloth  soaked  in  brine,  and  .wt  away  itt  a  temperature  of  about  60  degrees  for 
twelve  hours.    Work  the  second  time  just  enough  to  get  the  remaining  but- 
termilk out.    This,  however,   must  be  done  thoroughly,  as  otherwise  the 
acid  of  the  buttermilk  will  make  the  butter  rancid.    At  the  end  of  tlie 
second  working  it  is  ready  for  use,  and  should  be  kept  in  a  clean,  sweet  place, 
as  it  soon  absorbs  bad  odors  and  becomes  tainted.    Tlie  air  of  a  cellar  in 
which  are  decaying  vegetables  soon  ruins  the  sweetest  butter.   In  packing  for 
market  (ash  butter  tubs  are  the  neatest  and  best  packages)  soak  the  package 
for  twelve  hours  in  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg,  pack  the  butter  in 
evenly  and  firmly,  having  first  put  in  a  thin  layer  of  salt.     If  the  tub  is  not 
filled  by  the  first  packing,  set  away  until  next  churning,  in  a  cool  place, 
with  a  cotton  cloth  wet  in  brine  spread  over  the  butter,  and  place  cover 
carefully  on  the  tub.     When  filled  lay  over  the  butter  a  cotton  cloth  (from 
which  the  sizing  has  been  washed)  soaked  in  strong  brine,  nail  up  the  tub, 
and  set  away  in  a  clean,  cool  place  until  ready  to  sell. 

In  packing  for  family  u.se,  work  into  rolls,  lay  in  large  stone  crocks,  cover 
with  Drine  strong  enougli  to  float  an  egg  (one  pint  of  .salt  to  a  gallon  of 
water),  in  winch  a  level  tea-spoon  of  saltpetre  and  a  {>ound  of  white  .sugar 
to  each  two  gallons  have  been  added ;  over  it  place  a  cotton  cloth  and  a 
\v(M"<;}it  to  keep  the  butter  under  the  brine,  ana  tie  a  paper  over  the  top 
nf  crock.  Or,  pack  in  a  .stone  jar,  pressing  it  solid  with  a  wooden  pestle, 
I'over  with  a  cloth  wet  in  brine,  and  .«?prinkle  over  it  salt  an  inch  thick. 
More  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  brine  without  injury;  if  butter  is  to  be 
kept  a  long  time  it  is  a  good  rule  to  always  make  brine  so  strong  that  salt 
will  lie  at  the  bottom  of  the  jar.  Some  boil  and  skim  the  brine  and  when 
ro/<i,  pour  it  over  the  butter.  When  ready  to  pack  the  next  churning,  re- 
move the  cloth  with  the  salt  carefully,  rinsing  otf"  with  water  any  that  may 
have  been  scattered  in  uncovering  it,  pack  butter  as  before,  replace  cloth 
with  salt  over  it,  and  repeat  until  jar  is  filled  to  within  two  inches  of  the 
top,  cover  all  with  cloth,  add  salt  to  the  top  of  crock,  tie  paper  over  the  top, 
and  .«et  in  a  cool  place.  In  removing  for  use  each  churning  conies  out  by 
itself. 


THE  LATJNDET. 


When  inyitlng  friends  to  vis  ts  of  a  week  or  more,  try  to  fix  the  time  for 
the  visit  to  begin  the  day  after  the  ironing  is  done.  The  girl  feels  a  weight 
off  her  mind,  has  time  to  cook  the  meals  better  and  is  a  much  more  willing 
attendant  upon  guests. 

Do  not  have  beefsteak  for  dinner  on  washing  or  ironing  days — arrange  to 
have  something  roasted  in  the  oven,  or  else  have  cold  meat  also. 

Do  not  have  fried  or  broiled  fish.  The  smell  sticks,  and  the  clothes  will  not 
be  sweet;  besides  the  broiler  and  frying-pan  take  longer  to  clean. 

As  for  vegetables,  do  not  have  spinach,  pease,  string-beans,  or  apple-sauce. 
All  these  good  things  take  time  tp  prepare,  and  can  be  avoided  as  well  as  not. 
Have  baked  white  and  sweet  potatoes,  macaroni,  boiled  rice,  parsnips,  sweet 
corn,  stewed  tomatoes,  any  canned  vegetables  in  winter.  For  dessert,  baked 
apples  and  cream,  bread-pudding,  or  something  easily  prepared. 

When  removed  from  the  person,  clothing,  if  damp,  should  be  dried  to  pre- 
vent mildew,  and  articles  which  are  to  be  starched  should  be  mended  before 
placing  in  the  clothes-baskpt.  Monday  is  the  washing  day  with  all  good 
housekeepers.  The  old-fashioned  programme  for  a  washing  is  as  follows: 
Use  good  soft  water  if  it  can  be  had.  If  not,  soften  a  barrel-full  of  well-water 
by  pouring  into  it  water  in  which  half  a  peck  or  more  of  hard  wood  ashes 
have  been  boiled,  together  with  the  ashes  themselves.  When  enough  has 
been  added  to  produce  the  desired  effect,  the  water  takes  on  a  curdled 
appearance,  and  soon  settles  perfectly  clear.  If  milky,  more  ashes  and  lye 
must  be  added  as  before,  care  being  taken  not  to  add  more  than  is  necessary 
to  clear  the  water,  or  it  will  affect  the  hands  unpleasantly.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  too  little  is  put  in,  the  clothes  will  turn  yellow.  Gather  up  all 
clothes  which  are  ready  on  Saturday  night,  and  the  rest  as  they  are  taken 
off;  separate  the  fine  from  the  coarse,  and  the  less  soiled  from  the  dirtier. 
Scald  all  table  linen  and  articles  which  have  coffee,  fruit,  or  other  stains 
which  would  be  "set"  by  hot  suds,  by  ^iouring  over  them  hot  water  froii- 
the  tea-kettle  and  allowing  them  to  stand  until  cool.  Have  the  water  in  iho 
tub  as  warm  as  the  hand  will  bear,  but  not  too  hot.  (Dirty  oloihes  should 
never  be  put  into  very  hot  clear  water,  as  it  "  sets  "  the  dirt.  Hot  soap-suds, 
however,  has  the  opposite  effect,  the  wat^r  expanding  the  fiber  of  the  fabric, 
while  the  alkali  of  the  soap  softens  and  removes  the  dirt.)  Wash  first  one 
boiler  full,  taking  the  cleanest  and  finest  through  two  suds,  then  place  in  a 
boiler  of  cold  water,  with  soap  enough  to  make  a  good  suds.  A  handful  of 
borax  to  about  ten  gallons  of  water  helps  to  whiten  the  clothes  and  is  used 
by  many,  especially  by  the  Germans,  who  are  famous  for  their  snowy  linen. 
33  (5^1) 


522  THE  LAUNDRY. 

This  saves  in  soap  nearly  half.  For  laces,  cambrics,  etc.,  an  extra  quantity  of 
the  powder  is  used,  and  for  crinolines  (requiring  to  be  made  stiff),  a  strong 
solution  is  necessary.  Borax,  being  a  neutral  salt,  does  not  in  the  slightest 
degree  injure  the  texture  of  the  linen.  Its  eifect  is  to  soften  the  hardest  water. 
Another  way  to  whiten  clothes  is  to  throw  a  handful  of  tansy  into  the  boiler 
in  which  clothes  are  boiling.  It  will  make  the  water  green,  but  will  whiten 
the  clothes.  l*et  them  boil,  with  cover  off  boiler,  not  more  than  five  or  ten  min- 
uU8,  as  too  long  boiling  "  yellows"  the  clothes.  (Some  advocate  strongly  no 
boiling.)  Remove  to  a  tub,  pour  over  them  cold  water  slightly  blued,  and 
turn  all  garments,  pillow-slips,  stockings,  etc.,  wrong-side  out.  (If  there  are 
more  to  boil,  take  out  part  of  the  boiling  suds,  add  cold  water,  and  fill  not 
too  full  with  clothes.  Repeat  until  all  are  boiled.  The  removal  of  part  of 
the  suds,  and  filling  up  with  cold  water,  prevents  the  suds  from  "  yellowing" 
the  clothes.)  Wash  vigorously  in  this  water  (this  is  called  "sudsing"), 
wringing  very  dry  by  hand,  or  better  with  the  wringer,  as  the  clear  appear- 
ance of  the  clothes  depends  largely  on  thorough  wringing.  Rinse  in  another 
tub  of  soft  water,  washing  with  the  hands,  not  simply  lifting  them  out  of  the 
water  and  then  wringing,  as  is  practiced  by  some,  because  all  suds  must  be 
rinsed  out  to  make  them  clear  and  white.  Wring  and  shake  out  well  and  put 
into  water  pretty  well  blued,  putting  in  one  article  after  another  until  the 
first  boilerful  is  all  in.  Stir  up  occasionally,  as  the  blue  sometimes  settles  to 
the  bottom,  and  thus  spots  the  clothes.  (This  time  well-water  may  be  used 
if  soft  water  is  difficult  to  obtain.)  Wring  out  again  and  for  the  last  time, 
placing  the  clothes  which  are  to  be  starched  in  one  basket,  and  the  rest, 
which  may  be  hung  out  immediately,  in  another.  While  the  first  lot  of 
clothes  is  boiling,  prepare  the  second,  take  out  first,  put  second  in  boiler,  and 
**8uds"  and  rinse  first  In  this  way  the  first  is  finished  and  hung  out  while 
the  later  lots  are  still  under  way.  Have  the  starch  (see  recipes)  ready  as  hot 
as  the  hand  can  bear,  dip  the  articles  and  parts  of  articles  which  need  to  be 
very  stiff,  first  "clapping"  the  starch  well  in  with  the  hands,  especially  in 
shirt-bosoms,  wristbands,  and  collars,  and  then  thin  the  starch  for  other  arti- 
cles which  require  less  stiffening.  When  starched,  hang  out  on  the  line  to 
dry,  first  wiping  the  line  with  a  cloth  to  remove  all  dirt  and  stains.  Shake 
out  each  article  until  it  is  free  from  wrinkles,  and  fasten  securely  on  the  line 
(with  the  old-fashioned  split  clothe.s-pins),  being  careful  to  hang  sheets  and 
table-linen  so  that  the  selvage  edges  will  be  even.  The  line  should  be 
stretched  in  the  airiest  place  in  the  yard,  or  in  winter  a  large  attic  is  a  better 
place  for  the  purpose.  (Freezing  injures  starch,  and  for  that  reason  it  is 
better  in  winter  to  hang  clothes  out  unstarched  until  dry,  then  taking  in, 
starching  and  drying  indoors.)  When  dry,  remove  from  line  to  clothes- 
basket,  place  clothes-pins  as  removed  in  a  basket  kept  for  the  purpose,  take 
down  and  roll  up  the  line,  remove  basket,  line,  and  pins  to  the  house,  and 
put  the  two  latter  into  their  proper  places.  The  clothes-line  should  always 
be  carefully  put  up  out  of  the  weather  when  not  in  use.  Wipe  it  carefully 
with  a  clean  cloth  before  hanging  out  clothes,  and  always  count  clothes-pins 
when  gathering  them  up.    Every  housekeeper  ought  to  provide  a  pair  of 


THE  LAUNDRY.  523 

mittens  for  hanging  out  clothes,  to  be  used  for  this  purpose  and  no  other. 
Cut  them  from  clean  flannel  (white  seems  the  most  suitable),  and  line  them 
with  another  thickness  of  flannel,  or  make  them  double,  if  the  flannel  is  thin. 
These  should  be  kept  in  a  clean  place  ready  for  this  particular  business,  and 
nothing  else.  A  good  and  handy  place  to  keep  them  is  in  the  clotlies-pia 
bag.  Turn  all  garments  right  side  out,  shake  out  thoroughly,  sprinkle 
(re-starching  shirt^bosoms,  wristbands,  and  collars  if  necessary).  Shake  out 
night-dresses  and  under-garments  so  as  to  free  them  from  creases,  and  if  they 
are  ruffled  or  embroidered,  dip  them  in  thin  starcli,  pull  out  smoothly,  fold 
first,  and  then,  beginning  at  the  top  of  each  garment,  roll  up,  each  by  itseli", 
in  a  very  tight  roll,  and  place  in  the  basket;  fold  sheets  without  sprinkling, 
having  first  snapped  and  stretched  them,  and  lay  on  the  rest ;  over  all  spread 
the  ironing  blanket,  and  let  them  stand  until  next  morning.  Next  day  iron, 
beginninj?  with  the  sheets  (which,  as  well  as  table  linen,  must  be  folded 
neatly  and  carefully,  so  that  the  selvago  edges  will  exactly  come  together. 
Or,  another  way  to  fold  and  iron  a  sheet  is  to  bring  bottom  overtop,  then 
bring  back  bottom  edge  to  edge  of  middle  fold,  leaving  top  edge;  iron  the 
upper  surface,  then  turn  the  whole  sheet  over,  fold  the  top  edge  back  to  the 
middle  edge,  and  again  iron  upper  surface ;  this  leaves  the  sheet  folded  iu 
four  thicknesses;  now  bring  the  selvage  edges  together  and  iron  the  upper 
surface,  and  the  sheet  is  done) ,  and  taking  shirts  next,  cooling  the  iron  when 
too  hot  on  the  coarse  towels.  In  ironing  shirts  a  "a  bosom-board"  is  almost 
indispensable,  and  an  **  ironing-board"  is  a  great  convenience  for  all  articles. 
The  former  is  a  hard  wood  board  an  inch  thick,  eighteen  inches  long,  and 
eight  wide,  covered  with  two  thicknesses  of  woolen  blanket  stuff,  overlaid 
with  two  more  of  cottton  cloth.  The  cloth  is  wrapped  over  the  sides  and  ends 
of  the  board  and  tacked  on  the  back  side,  leaving  the  face  plain  and  smooth. 
The  ironing-board  is  covered  in  the  same  way,  but  is  five  feet  long,  two  feet 
wide  at  one  end,  and  narrowed  down  with  a  rounded  taper  from  full  width 
at  the  middle  to  seven  inches  at  the  other  end,  and  the  corners  rounded. 
This  board  may  be  of  any  well-seasoned  wood  which  will  not  warp,  and 
should  be  about  one  inch  thick;  on  this  ail  the  clothes  are  conveniently 
ironed.  Always  use  cotton  holders  for  the  irons.  Woolen  ones  are  hot  to 
^he  hand,  and  if  scorched,  as  they  often  are,  the  smell  is  disagreeable.  In 
Toning  a  shirt  or  a  dress,  turn  the  sleeves  on  the  wrong  side,  and  leave  them 
aniil  the  rest  is  done,  and  then  turn  and  iron  them.  In  this  way  the  bosoms 
ire  less  likely  to  become  rumpled.  Pull  muslin  and  lace  out  carefully,  iron 
it  over  once,  and  then  pull  into  shape,  pick  out  the  embroidery  and  proceed 
with  greater  care  than  before.  Embroideries  should  be  ironed  on  the  wrong 
side  over  flannel.  Always  have  near  a  dish  of  clean  cold  water,  so  that  any 
?pot  which  has  been  im perfectly'  ironed  may  be  easily  wet  with  a  soft  sponge 
jr  piece  of  linen,  and  ironed  over  again,  or  any  surplus  bit  of  starch  removed. 
As  fast  as  articles  are  finished,  they  should  be  hung  on  the  clothes-dryer 
until  thoroughly  dry,  especial  care  being  taken  with  those  which  are  starched 
stiff,  as  they  retain  the  starch  much  better  if  dried  very  quickly.  Thorough 
airing  is  necessary,  twenty-four  hours  being  none  too  much. 


524  THE  LAUNDRY. 

If  a  machine  is  used  in  washing,  it  is  better  to  soak  the  clothes  over  night 
in  warm  soft  water,  soaping  collars  and  wristbands,  and  pieces  most  soiled. 
Have  separate  tabs  for  coarse  and  fine  clothes.  In  soaking  clothes  for  wash- 
ing Monday,  the  water  should  be  prepared  Saturday  night,  and  all  clothes 
which  are  ready  thrown  in,  and  the  rest  added  when  changed.  If  washing 
fluids  are  used,  the  recipes  which  follow  are  the  best. 

Another  method  is  to  half  fill  tubs  Saturday  night  with  clear,  soft  water, 
warmed  a  little  if  convenient,  but  not  too  hot,  made  into  a  weak  suds ;  in  one 
put  the  finer  articles,  such  as  muslins,  cuffs,  collars,  and  shirts;  in  another 
put  table-linen ;  in  another  bed-linen ;  in  another  the  dish-cloths  and  wiping 
towels,  and  in  still  another  the  coarsest  and  most  soiled  articles :  always  put 
the  most  ^iled  articles  of  each  division  at  bottom  of  tub ;  cover  all  well  with 
water  and  press  down.    Rub  no  soap  on  spots  or  stains,  as  it  will  '^  set "  them. 
Of  course,  articles  which  can  not  be  had  on  Saturday  night  are  put  in  the 
next  day  as  they  are  changed.    Monday  morning,  heat  not  very  hot  a  boiler 
full  of  clean  soft  water,  add  to  it  water  in  which  soap  waa  dissolved  Saturday 
night  by  pouring  hot  water  over  it,  and  stir  it  thoroughly;  drain  off  the 
water  in  which  the  clothes  were  soaked  after  shaking  them  up  and  down 
vigorously  in  it,  pressing  them  against  the  sides  of  the  tub  to  get  out  all  the 
water  possible.    Then  pour  over  them  tlie  warm  suds,  and  wash  out  as  before 
described,  washing  each  class  separately.     If  found  impracticable  to  make 
BO  many  divisions,  separate  the  coarse  and  fine,  and  the  least  soiled  and  the 
dirtiest. 

In  the  summer,  clothes  may  be  washed  without  any  fire  by  soaking  over- 
night in  soapy  soft  water,  rubbing  out  in  the  morning,  soaping  the  dirty 
places,  and  laying  them  in  the  hot  sunshine.  By  the  time  the  last  are  spread 
out  to  bleach,  the  first  may  be  taken  up,  washed  out  and  rinsed.  This,  of 
course,  requires  a  clean  lawn. 

Before  washing  flannels  shake  out  dust  and  lint;  use  soft,  clean^  cold  water, 
in  winter  merely  taking  the  chill  off.  Let  the  hard  soap  lie  in  the  water,  but 
do  not  apply  it  to  the  clothes.  Wash  the  whit.e  pieces  first,  throw  articles  as 
fast  as  washed  into  blued  cold  water,  let  them  stand  twenty  or  thirty  min- 
utes, wash  them  through  this  water  after  dissolving  a  little  soap  in  it.  wring 
hard,  shake,  and  hang  up.  Wash  colored  flannels  in  the  same  way  (but  not 
In  water  used  for  white,  or  they  will  gather  the  lint),  and  rinse  in  se\'^ral 
waters  if  inclined  to  **run.'*  When  very  dirty,  all  flannels  should  soak 
longer,  and  a  little  borax  well  dissolved  should  be  added  to  the  water.  This 
process  is  equally  good  for  washing  silk  goods  and  silk  embroideries.  Cali- 
coes and  fancy  cotton  stockings  may  be  washed  in  the  same  way,  except  that 
no  soap  should  be  used  in  the  rinsing,  Wash  gray  and  brown  linens  in  cold 
water,  with  a  little  black  pepper  in  it,  and  tliey  will  not  fade.  For  bluing, 
use  the  best  indigo  tied  in  a  strong  bag  made  of  drilling. 

To  Cleanse  Articles  made  op  White  Zephyb. — Rub  in  flour  or  magnesia, 
changing  often.    Shake  off  flour  and  liang  in  the  open  air  a  short  time. 

To  Remove  Ink-staix.— Immediately  saturate  with  milk,  soak  it  up  with 
a  rag,  apply  more,  rub  well,  and  in  a  few  minutes  the  ink  will  disappear. 


THE  LA  UNDBY.  525 

To  Clean  Alpaca. — Sponge  with  strained  coffee.  Iron  on  the  wrong  side, 
having  black  cambric  under  the  goods. 

Take  out  Machine  Oil. — Iluu  with  a  little  Inrd  or  butter  and  wash  in 
warm  water  and  sosip,  or,  simply  rub  first  with  a  little  soap  and  wash  out 
in  cold  water. 

To  Stiffen  Linen  Cuffs  and  Collars. — Add  a  small  piece  of  white  wax 
and  one  tea-spoon  brand v  to  a  pint  of  fine  starch.     In  ironing,  if  the  iron, 
sticks^  soap  the  bottom  of  it. 

Is  Washing  Children's  Stockings,  wooden  stocking  forms  are  a  great 
help  on  wiiich  to  dry  them.  Obtain  tliem  at  the  furnishing  store,  or  nave 
them  made  without  much  expense. 

To  Clean  Wash  Boilers. — Wash,  when  a  little  rusty,  with  sweet  milk; 
or  grease  with  lard.  A  better  plan  is  to  prevent  rust  by  thoroughly  dry- 
ing boiler,  as  well  as  tubs,  before  putting  awajr  for  the  week. 

To  Take  out  Paint. — Equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  spirits  of  turpentine 
will  take  paint  out  of  clothing,  no  matter  how  dry  or  hard  it  may  be. 
Saturate  the  spot  two  or  three  times  and  then  wash  out  in  soap-suds. 

To  Restore  Velvet. — When  velvet  gets  crushed  from  pressure,  hold  the 
parts  over  a  basin  of  hot  water,  with  the  lining  of  the  dress  next  the  water. 
The  pile  will  soon  rise  and  assume  its  original  beauty. 

Spots. — In  cloth  or  calico,  produced  by  an  acid,  may  be  removed  by  touch- 
ing the  spot  with  spirits  of  hartshorn.  Spots  produced  by  an  alkali  may  be 
removed  by  moistening  them  witli  vinegar  or  tartaric  acid. 

To  Prevent  Blue  from  Fading.  — To  prevent  blue  from  fading,  put  an 
ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pail  of  water,  soak  tlie  material  in  the  solution 
for  two  hours,  and  let  dry  before  being  washed  and  ironed;  good  for  all 
shades  of  blue. 

To  Take  Out  Mildew. — Wet  the  cloth  and  rub  on  soap  and  chalk,  mixed 
together,  and  lay  in  tlie  sun ;  or  lay  the  cloth  in  buttermilk  for  a  short 
time,  take  out  and  place  in  the  hot  sun;  or  put  lemon  juice  on,  and  treat 
in  the  same  way. 

To  Re.move  Ink  Stains  from  Clothing. — Dip  the  spots  in  pure  melted 
tallow ;  wash  out  tlie  tallow  and  the  ink  will  come  out  If  articles  are 
rubbed  out  in  cold  water  while  the  stain  is  fresh,  the  stain  will  often  be 
entirely  removed. 

For  Washinw  Red  Table  Linen,  use  tepid  water,  with  a  little  powdered 
borax,  which  ser\'es  to  set  the  color;  wash  the  linen  separately  ana  quickly, 
using  very  little  soan,  rinse  in  tepid  water,  containing  a  little  boiled  starch; 
hang  to  dry  in  the  stiade,  and  iron  when  almost  dry. 

To  Clean  Alpaca, — Put  goods  in  a  boiler  half  full  of  cold  rain-water, 
and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Have  ready  a  pail  of  indigo^water  (very  dark 
with  indigo),  place  goods  in  it,  after  wringing  out  of  boiling  water,  let  re- 
main one-half  an  hour,  then  wring  out,  and  iron  while  damp. 

How  to  Clean  Velvet. — Invert  a  hot  flat-iron,  place  over  it  a  single 
thickness  of  wet  cotton  cloth,  lay  on  this  the  velvet,  wrong  side  next  the 
wet  cloth,  rub  gently  with  a  dry  cloth  until  the  pile  is  well  rai.sed;  take  ofl 
the  iron,  lay  on  a  table,  and  brush  it  with  a  soft  brush  or  cloth. 

To  Take  Grease  out  of  Silks,  Woolens,  Paper,  Fix)or8.  etc. — Grate 
thick  over  the  spot  French  (or  commcm  will  do)  chalk,  cover  with  brown 
paper,  set  on  it  a  hot  flatiron,  and  let  it  remain  until  cool;  repeat  if  neces- 
sary.   The  iron  must  not  be  .so  hot  as  to  burn  paper  or  cloth. 

Substitute  for  Washino-Soda. — A  German  scientific  journal  recommends 
laundresses  to  use  hyi)Osulphite  of  so<la  in  place  of  common  washing-soda. 
It  does  not  attack  the  fabric  in  any  way,  and  at  the  same  time  exerts  some 
bleaching  actions  which  greatly  improve  the  appearance  of  linen  and  calicoes. 

Silver  Polish  for  Shirts. — One  ounce  each  of  isinglass  and  borax,  one 
tea-spoon  white  glue,  two  t€a-s|K>ons  white  of  an  e^.     Cook  well  in  two 

aaarts  of  fine  starch.    Starch  in  this  and  dry.    Before  ironing,  apply  some  of 
^  to  the  bosom  and  cuffs  with  a  cloth  till  well  dampened.    Iron  at  once  with 
a  hot  glossing  iron. 


526  THE  LAUSDRY. 

To  Clean  Black  Lace.— Take  the  lace  and  wipe  off  all  the  dusl  care- 
fully, with  a  cambric  handkerchief.  Then  pin  it  out  on  a  board,  insert- 
ing a  pin  in  each  projecting  point  of  the  lace.  8(Mit  it  all  over  with  table- 
beer,  and  do  not  remove  the  pins  until  it  is  perfectly  dry.  It  will  look 
quite  fresh  and  new. 

To  make  Soap  to  do  away  wfth  Ri'bbino. — Dissolve  five  bars  of  soap  in 
four  ^llons  soft  water,  one  and  three-fourths  pounds  sal -soda,  and  three- 
fourths  pound  borax;  stir  while  cooling.  Use  one  cupful  to  make  suds  to 
soak  clothes  in  ;  wring  out  and  put  into  the  boiler;  use  same  quantity  of 
soap  for  boiling  the  same. 

Enamel  for  Shirt  Bosoms. — Melt  togetlier  with  a  gentle  heat,  one  ounce 
white  wax  and  two  ounces  spermaceti ;  prepare  in  the  usual  way  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  starch  for  a  dozen  bosoms,  put  into  it  a  piece  of  this  enamel  the 
size  of  a  hazel-nut,  and  in  proportion  for  a  lai*ge  number.  This  will  give 
clothes  a  beautiful  ])olish. 

To  Remove  the  Color  from  Buff  Calico. — If  some  kinds  of  buff  calico 
are  dipj>ed  in  strong  soda  water,  the  color  will  be  removed  and  the  figures 
of  other  colors  remain  on  a  white  ground.  This  is  valuable  sometimes,  as 
buff  calico  spots  easily.  If  pink  calico  be  dipped  in  vinegar  and  water 
after  rinsing,  the  color  will  be  brighter. 

To  Remove  the  Stain  of  Nitrate  of  Silver — from  the  flesh,  or  white 
goods  of  any  kind,  dissolve  iodine  in  alcohol,  and  apply  to  the  stain ;  then 
take  a  piece  of  cyanide  potassium,  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  wet  in  water,  rub 
on  the  S])Ot,  and  the  stain  will  immediately  disappear;  then  wash  the  goods 
or  hands  in  cold  water. — G.  W.  Collins,  Urhnnn. 

Mother's  Hard-times  Soap. — Take  all  the  bits  of  soap  that  are  too  small 
to  be  longer  used,  shave  down,  and  let  soak  in  soft  water  enough  to  cover 
them  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  more  soft  water,  and  boil  until 
thoroughly  melted  and  of  the  consistency  of  taffy ;  pour  into  molds,  and  you 
have  a  nice  cake  of  soap. — Miss  Addie  Mnnsell. 

Coffee  Starch. — Make  a  paste  of  two  table-spoons  best  starch  and  cold 
water;  when  smooth  stir  in  a  pint  of  perfectly  clear  coffee  (made  by  pouring 
boiling  water  on  the  grounds  left  from  breakfast  and  straining)  boiling 
hot;  boil  five  or  ten  minutes,  stir  with  a  spermaceti  or  wax  candle,  strain, 
and  use  for  all  dark  calicoes,  percales,  and  muslin.s. 

To  Remove  Iron-Rust. — While  rinsing  clothes,  take  .such  as  have  spots 
of  rust,  wring  out,  dip  a  wet  finger  in  oxalic  acid,  and  rub  on  the  spot,  then 
dip  in  salt  and  rub  on,  and  hold  on  a  warm  flatiron,  or  on  the  tin  or  cop- 
per tea- kettle  if  it  have  hot  water  in  it,  and  the  spot  will  immediately  dis- 
appear; rinse  again,  rubbing  the  place  a  little  with  the  hands. 

Erasive  Fluid. — For  the  removal  of  spots  on  furniture,  cloth,  silks,  and 
other  fabrics,  when  the  color  is  not  drawn,  without  injury:  One  ounce 
castile  soap,  four  of  aqua  ammonia,  one  of  glycerine,  and  one  of  spirits  of 
wine;  dissolve  the  soap  in  two  quarts  soft  water,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
apply  with  a  soft  sponge,  and  rub  out. — A.  Peabwbj,  Cincinnati,  0. 

To  Clean  White  Satin  and  Flowered  Silks. — Mix  sifted  stale  bread- 
crumbs with  powder  blue,  and  rub  it  thoroughly  all  over,  then  shake  it  well 
and  dust  it  well  with  clean,  soft  cloths.  Afterwards  where  there  are  any 
gold  or  silver  flowers,  take  a  piece  of  crimson  ingrain  velvet,  and  rub  the 
flowers  with  it,  which  will  restore  them  to  their  original  Ulster. 

For  Washing  Goods  that  Fade,  use  crude  ammonia  instead  of  soap. 
Soiled  neckties  may  be  made  to  look  like  new  by  taking  one-half  a  tea- 
spoon of  spirits  of  hortshom  to  a  tea-cup  of  water;  wash  well,  and,  if  veiy 
much  soiled,  put  through  a  second  water,  with  less  ammonia  in.  Lay  it 
on  a  clean,  white  cloth,  and  gently  wipe  with  another  until  dry. 

To  Clean  Silk  and  Woolen  Dress  Goods. — Any  silk  or  wooled  goods 
may  be  washed  in  gasoline,  rubbing  as  if  in  water,  without  injury.  The 
dirt  is  quickly  and  easily  removed,  but  no  change  takes  place  in  tlie  color 
of  the  uibric.     Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  use  the  gajtoline  near  a  store  or  iightf 


THE  LAUNDRY.  527 

as  there  is  a  gas  arising  from  it  which  is  very  inflammahle,  and  might  take 
fire  from  a  lamp  set  a  foot  or  two  distant. 

In  washing  the  dish-wipkrs,  do  not  boil  them  with  tlie  fine  white  dresses, 
shirts,  table-cloths,  sheets,  piliow-cases,  napkins,  or  fine  towels,  but  be  as  par- 
ticular to  have  tlie  suds  nice  and  clean.  It  is  better  to  remove  a  part  of 
the  suds,  and  add  clean  cold  water,  so  that  the  wipers  will  not  become 
yellow  by  boiling  in  too  strong  a  suds.  On  each  wash-day  wash  thoroughly 
all  that  have  been  used  the  previous  week.    . 

Silk  and  Thread  Gloves  are  best  washed  by  placing  them  on  the  hands, 
and  washing  in  borax  water  or  white  castile  soap-suds,  the  same  &»  if  wash- 
ing the  hands;  rinse  under  a  stream  of  water,  and  dry  with  a  towel;  keep 
the  gloves  on  until  they  are  about  lialf  dried,  take  off  carefully,  and  fold 
them  up  so  that  they  will  look  as  nearly  like  what  they  were  when  new  as 
possible,  and  lay  between  clean  towels  under  a  weight. 

To  Clean  Ribbons. — Dissolve  white  soap  in  boiling  water;  when  cool 
enough  to  bear  the  hand,  pass  the  ribbons  through  it,  rubbing  gently  so  as 
not  to  iniure  the  texture;  rinse  through  lukewarm  water,  and  pin  on  a 
board  to  dry.  If  the  colors  are  bright  yellow,  maroon,  crimson,  or  scarlet, 
add  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  vitriol  to  the  rinse-water;  if  the  color  is  bright 
scarlet,  add  to  the  rinse-water  a  few  drops  of  the  muriate  of  tin. 

Brown  Linen — May  be  kept  looking  new  until  worn  out  if  always  washed 
in  starch-water  and  hay  tea.  Make  nour  starch  in  the  ordinary  way.  For 
one  dress  put  on  the  stove  a  common  sized  milk  pan  full  of  timothy  hay, 
pour  on  water,  cover,  and  boil  until  the  water  is  of  a  dark  green  color,  then 
turn  into  the  starch,  let  the  goods  soak  in  it  a  few  minutes,  and  wash  with^ 
out  soap  ;  the  starch  will  clean  the  fabric  and  no  rinsing  is  necessary. 

To  Wash  Colored  MusLiNS.-^Wash  in  warm,  not  hot,  suds,  made  with 
soft  water  and  best  white  soap,  if  it  is  to  be  had.  Do  not  soak  them,  and 
wash  only  one  thing  at  a  time.  Change  the  suds  as  soon  as  it  looks  dingy, 
and  put  the  garments  at  once  into  fresh  suds.  Rinse  first  in  clear  water, 
then  in  slightly  blued.  Squeeze  quite  dry,  but  don't  wring  the  dress.  Hang 
in  a  shady  place  where  the  sunshine  will  not  strike  it,  as  that  fades  all  colors. 

To  Wash  Thread  Lace. — Cover  a  bottle  with  white  flannel,  baste  the  lace 
carefully  on  the  flannel,  and  rub  with  white  soap;  place  the  bottle  in  a  jar 
filled  with  warm  suds,  let  remain  two  or  three  days,  changing  the  water 
several  times,  and  boil  with  the  finest  white  clothes  on  washing  day ;  when 
cooled  a  little,  rinse  several  times  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  wrap  a  soft,  dry 
towel  around  it,  and  place  it  in  the  sun;  when  dry,  unwind,  but  do  not 
starch. 

Black  Print  or  Percale  Dresses,  that  have  figures  of  white  in  them, 
may  be  washed  liicely  by  putting  them  in  the  "  boiling  suds,"  after  the  other 
clothes  have  all  been  removed,  and  boiling  for  ten  minutes;  cool  the  suds, 
rub  out  quickly,  rinse  in  lukewarm  water,  then  in  very  blue  cold  water,  and 
starch  in  coflfee  starch.  Aftor  the  dress  is  dried,  it  is  to  be  dipped  into  cold 
water,  passed  through  the  wringer,  rolled  in  a  coarse  towel  or  sheet  and  left 
for  a  couple  of  hours,  then  ironed  on  the  wrong  side. 

To  Wash  DELirATE  Colored  Mislins. — Boil  wheat  bran  (about  two  quarts 
to  a  dress)  iii  soft  water  half  an  hour,  let  it  cool,  strain  the  liquor,  and  use 
it  instead  of  soan-suds;  it  removes  dirt  like  soap,  keeps  the  color,  and  the 
clothes  only  neeci  rinsing  in  one  water,  and  even  stiirohing  is  unnecessary. 
Suds  and  rinsing  water  for  coIofcmI  articles  should  be  used  as  cold  as  possible. 
Another  way  is  to  make  thick  corn  meal  mush,  well  salted,  and  use  instead 
of  soap;  rinse  in  one  or  two  waters,  and  do  not  starch. 

To  vVash  a  Silk  Dress. — To  wash  a  silk  dress  with  gall  soap,  rip  apart 
and  shake  off  the  dust ;  have  ready  two  tubs  warm  soft  water,  n\ake  a  suds 
of  the  soap  in  one  tub,  and  use  the  other  for  rinsing;  wash  tlie  silk,  one 
piece  at  a  time,  in  the  suds,  wring  gently,  rinse,  again  wring,  shake  out,  and 
iron  with  a  hot  iron  on  what  you  intend  to  be  the  wrong  side.  Thus  pro- 
ceed with  each  piece;  and,  when  about  half  done,  throw  out  the  suda  and 
make  suds  of  the  rinsing  water«  using  fresh  water  for  rinsing. 


528  THE  LAUNDRY. 

A  Washing  FLrin.— Tho  washing  fluid  made  by  thev  following  rule  is 
invaluable  in  cleaning  woolen  goods,  in  washing  woolen  tidies,  or  worsted 
goods  df  any  kind:  One-half  bar  of  Babbitt's  or  Bell's  soap,  one  ounce  salt- 
petre, one  ounce  borax,  four  quarts  soft  water.  Dissolve  all  togetlier  over  a 
fire;  when  half  cold,  add  five  ounces  spirits  of  ammonia.  The  compound 
may  be  bottled  and  is  good  for  an  indefinite  length  of  time.  It  is  used  just 
as  you  would  use  soft  soap. — Mrs.  Judge  West,  Belief ontaiiie,  Ohio. 

To  "Do  Up"  Black  Silk.— Boil  an  old  kid  glove  fcut  up  in  small  shreds) 
in  a  pint  of  water  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  a  half  pint;  then  sponge  the 
silk  with  it;  fold  it  down  tight,  and  ten  minutes  after,  iron  it  on  the  wrong 
side  while  wet  The  silk  will  retain  its  softness  and  luster,  and,  at  tJie 
same  time,  have  the  "body"  of  new  silk. 

Or,  rip  up  and  brush  thoroughly,  then  sponge  in  ammonia  water,  and 
pin  out  perfectly  straight,  each  width  or  piece  where  the  sun  will  shine  on 
it  and  let  dry. 

To  TAKE  OUT  Scorch.. — If  a  shirt-bosom,  or  any  other  article  has  been 
scorched  in  ironing,  lay  it  where  bright  sunshine  will  fall  directly  on  it. 
Peel  and  slice  two  onions,  extract  the  juice  by  pounding  and  squeezing; 
cut  up  half  an  ounce  of  tine  white  soap,  and  add  to  the  juice;  two  ounces 
of  fuller's  earth  and  half  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  all  together.  When  cool 
spread  over  the  scorched  linen,  and  let  dry  on :  then  wash  and  boil  out  the 
linen,  and  the  spots  will  disappear  unless  burned  so  badly  as  to  break  the 
threads. 

Flour  Starch. — Have  a  clean  pan  or  kettle  on  stove  with  one  quart  boil- 
ing water,  into  which  stir  three  heaping  table-spoons  flour,  previously  mixed 
smooth  in  little  cold  water;  stir  steadily  until  it  boils,  and  then  often 
enough  to  keep  from  burning.  Boil  about  five  minutes,  strain  while  hot 
through  a  crash  towel.  The  above  quantity  is  enough  for  one  dress,  and 
will  make  it  nice  and  stiffl  Flour  starch  is  considered  better  for  all  cali- 
coes than  fine  starch,  since  it  makes  them  stiflfer,  and  the  stiflness  is  longer 
retained.  * 

Pocket  fob  Clothes-Pins. — A  great  convenience  is  the  apron  pocket  for 
clothes  pins.  It  takes  nearly  one  yard  of  calico  to  make  it,  the  apron  or 
pouch  l^ing  fifteen  inches  in  length,  and  nearly  as  wide.  Round  the  cor- 
ner at  the  bottom.  At  the  top.  on  each  side  of  the  front,  two  inches 
from  the  middle,  cut  out  a  strip  nine  inches  long,  and  one  and  one-half 
inch  wide  for  pocket.s.  Bind  them  with  lighter  colored  fabric  than  the 
apron,  that  they  may  be  readily  seen.  Gather  into  a  band  and  button  at 
the  back,  or  put  on  strings  and  tie. 

How  TO  Wash  Blankets. — All  that  is  necessary  is  abundance  of  soft  water, 
and  soap  without  resin  in  it.  Resin  hardens  the  fibers  of  wool,  and  should 
never  be  used  in  washing  any  kind  of  flannel  goods.  Blankets  treated  sb 
above  will  always  come  out  clean  and  soft  A  little  bluing  may  be  used  in 
washing  white  blankets.  They  should  be  shaken  and  snapped  until  almost 
dry;  it  will  require  two  persons  to  handle  them.  Woolen  slwwls,  and  all 
woolen  articles,  especially  men's  wear,  are  much  improved  by  being  pressed 
with  a  hot  iron  under  damp  muslin. 

Gall  Soap. — For  washing  woolens,  silks,  or  fine  prints  liable  to  fade :  One 
pint  beefs  gall,  two  pounds  common  bar  soap  cut  fine,  one  quart  boiling  soft 
water ;  boil  slowly,  stirring  occasionally  until  well  mixed ;  pour  into  a  flat 
vessel,  and  when  cold  cut  into  pieces  to  dry ;  or,  a  more  simple  way  of  using 
gall,  is  to  get  a  pint  lx)ttle  fillea  with  fresh  beefs  gall  at  the  butchers,  cork 
tightly,  add  to  the  water  when  washing  any  material  that  is  liable  to  fade; 
using  more  if  articles  are  very  liable  to  rade,  and  less  if  the  liability  is  not 
great.    When  the  bottle  is  empty  or  grows  stale,  get  fresh. 

Fruit-Stains — Colored  cottons  or  woolens  stained  with  wine  or  frnitshould 
be  wet  in  alcohol  and  ammonia,  then  sponged  off  gently  (not  rubbed)  with 
alt!ohol ;  after  that  if  the  material  will  warrant  it,  washed  in  tepid  soap- 
suds.   Where  white  are  used  the  stains  may  be  easily  removed  oy  using 


THE  LAUNDRY.  529 

boiling  water  before  the  stains  are  soaped  or  wetted;  pour  it  on  until  they 
mostly  disappear,  and  then  let  goods  stand  in  it  covered  till  cold.  Peaches, 
flome  kinds  of  pears,  and  sweet  apples  make  the  worst  stains ;  and  if  boil- 
ing water  is  not  sufficient,  a  little  javelle  water  may  be  used  and,  if  skill- 
fully managed,  will  not  need  to  be  used  often.  Silks  may  be  wet  with  this 
preparation  when  injured  by  these  stains. 

TOE  Use  of  Turpentine  in  Washing. — Turpentine  should  never  be  used 
when  washing  is  done  witli  the  hands,  as  it  is  very  injurious  to  the  health ; 
but  when  the  clothes  are  pounded  in  a  barrel  in  the  old  fashioned  way,  or 
when  the  rubbing  is  done  by  a  washing-machine,  a  table-spoon  of  turpen- 
tine added  to  a  pint  of  soft  soap,  taking  enough  of  the  mixture  to  make  a 
good  suds  for  each  lot  of  clothes  aids  in  removing  the  dirt.  Care  must  be 
taken  not  to  handle  the  turpentine  with  the  hands,  or  to  breathe  the  fumes 
of  it,  as  it  is  very  injurious  to  some  persons,  and  great  care  should  be  taken 
to  rinse  the  clothes  very  thoroughly,  or  the  clothing  may  retain  enough  of 
the  turpentine  to  be  injuriDUs,  when  worn  next  the  skin. 

To  WASH  Flannels  in  Tepid  Water. — The  usefulness  of  liquid  ammonia 
is  not  as  universally  known  among  housewives  as  it  deserves  to  be.  If  you 
add  some  of  it  to  a  soap-suds  maile  of  a  mild  soap,  it  will  prevent  the  flannel 
from  becoming  yellow  or  shrinking.  It  is  the  potash  ana  soda  contained  in 
sharp  soap  which  tends  to  color  animal  fibers  yellow;  the  shrinking  may 
also  be  partially  due  to  this  agency,  but  above  all  to  the  exposure  of  the 
fiannel  while  wet  to  the  extremes  of  low  or  high  temperatures.  Dipping  it 
in  boiling  water  or  leaving  it  out  in  the  rain  will  also  cause  it  to  shrink  and 
become  hard.  To  preserve  their  softness,  flannels  should  be  washed  in  tepid 
suds,  rinsed  in  tepid  water,  and  dried  rapidly  at  a  moderate  heat. 

To  Wash  Lace  Ruchings. — Wash  with  the  hands  in  warm  suds  (if  much 
soiled,  soak  in  warm  water  two  or  three  hours),  rinse  thoroughly,  and  starch 
in  thick  starch,  dry  out  doors  if  the  day  be  clear;  if  not,  place  between  dry 
cloth,  roll  tightly  and  put  away  till  dry;  then,  with  the  fingers,  open  each 
row  and  pull  out  smoothly  (have  a  cup  of  clean  water  in  which  to  dip  the 
fingers  or  dampen  the  lace) ;  then  pull  out  straight  the  outer  edge  of  each 
with  the  thumb  and  finger,  and  draw  the  binding  over  the  point  or  .side  of  a 
hot  iron.  If  the  ruche  is  single,  or  onlv  two  rows,  it  can  be  ironed  aftef . 
being  smoothed  (the  first  process).  Blonde  or  net,  that  has  become  yellow, 
can  be  bleached  by  hanging  in  the  sun  or  laying  out  over  ni^ht  in  the  dew. 

To  MAKE  Fine  Starch. — Wet  tlie  starch  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water, 
in  a  large  tin  pan,  pour  on  a  quart  boiling  water  to  two  or  three  table-spoons 
starch,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  while;  place  on  stove,  stir  until  it  boils,  and 
then  occasionally.  Boil  from  five  to  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  starch  is 
perfectly  clear.  Some  add  a  little  salt,  or  butter  or  pure  lard,  or  stir  with 
a  sperm  candle;  others  add  a  tea-spoon  kerosene  to  one  quart  starch;  this 
prevents  the  stickiness  sometimes  so  annoying  in  ironing.  Either  of  the 
above 'ingredients  is  an  improvement  to  flour  starch.  Many,  just  before 
using  starch  mid  a  little  bluing.  Cold  starch  is  made  from  starch,  dissolved 
in  cold  water,  bein^  careful  not  to  have  it  too  thick;  since  it  rots  the 
clothes,  it  is  not  ailvisahle  to  use  it — the  same  is  true  of  potato  starcli. 

Fob  Washing  the  Lighter  Woolen  Fabrics  that  enter  into  the  compo- 
sition of  summer  dres.ses,  borax  is  one  of  the  most  useful  articles  for  soften- 
ing the  water  and  cleansing  the  material.  This  is  used  in  the  proportion  of 
a  table-spoon  to  a  gallon  of  water,  and,  if  dissolved  in  hot  water,  it  makes  a 
better  lather.  Of  cours.e,  no  thoughtful  fterson  will  attempt  to  wa.sh  a  woolen 
dress  without  first  having  ripped  it  apart,  picked  out  all  the  threads,  brushed 
the  dust  out,  and  marked  t!ie  particularly  soiled  places  by  running  a  thread 
around  them.  Wash  one  piece  at  a  time,  foil  up  and  squeeze,  or  pass  thn^iigh 
a  wringer  instead  of  twi.sting  through  the  han<ls.  Wash  in  several  changes 
of  borax  water,  and  rinse  in  clear  water,  in  which  a  well-beaten  c^s  has  been 
mixed;  shake  thoroughly,  and  fold  in  sheets  until  evenly  damp  all  through, 
then  iron  the  wrong  side  with  an  ii-on  hot  enough  to  smooth  nicely  without 
icorchinfr 


530  THE  LAUNDRY. 

Wash  Silk  Handkerchiefs  by  laving  them  on  a  smooth  board,  and  nib- 
bing with  the  palm  of  tlie  hand.  Use  either  borax  or  white  catstile  soap  to- 
make  the  suds;  rinse  in  clear  water,  shake  till  nearly  dry,  fold  evenly, 
lay  between  boards,  and  put  a  weight  on  them.  No  ironing  is  required. 
8ilk  hose  and  ribbons  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way ;  if  there  are  colore 
that  run,  put  as  much  sugar  of  lead  as  will  lie  on  a  quarter  dollar,  into  » 
half  gallon  of  water,  and  soak  the  goods  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently, 
then  wash  as  above,  and  rinse  in  several  clear  waters,  using  sugar  of  lead 
in  the  last.  Or,  wash  in  cold  rain-water  with  a  little  cuni  soap ;  thei> 
rinse  them  in  rain-water — cold — slifrhtly  colored  with  stone  blue ;  wring 
well,  and  stretch  them  out  on  a  mattress,  tacking  them  out  tightly.  They 
will  look  as  good  ns  new  if  carofully  washed. 

Washing  Light-Colored  Puikts  and  Cambrics.  —  Take  a  table-spoon  of 
alum,  and  dissolve  it  in  enough  lukewarm  water  to  rinse  a  print  dress.  Dip 
the  soiled  dress  into  it,  taking  care  to  wet  thoroughly  every  part  of  it,  and  then 
wring  it  out.  Have  warm,  not  hot,  suds  all  ready,  and 'wash  out  the  dress 
quicklv;  then  rin?o  it  in  cold  water.  (White  castile  soap  is  the  best  for 
colored  cottons,  if  it  can  be  conmianded.)  Have  the  starcn  ready,  but  not 
too  hot ;  rinse  the  dress  in  it,  wring  it  out,  and  hang  it  wrong  side  out  to  dry, 
but  not  in  the  sun.  Place  it  where  the  wind  will  strike  it  rather  than  the 
sijn.  When  dry,  iron  directly.  Prints  should  never  be  sprinkled;  but,  if 
allowed  to  become  rough  dry,  they  should  be  ironed  under  a  damp  cloth..  It 
is  better  to  wash  them  some*  day  by  themselves,  when  washing  and  ironing 
can  be  done  at  once. 

To  Wash  Flannels  in  Boiling  Water. — Make  a  strong  suds  of  boiling 
water, and  soft  soap — hard  soap  makes  flannels  stiff  and  wiry — put  them  in, 
pressing  them  down  under  the  water  with  a  clothes-stick;  when  cool  enough 
rub  the  articles  carefully  between  the  hands,  then  wrinpr — but  not  through 
the  wringer — as  dry  as  possible,  shake,  snap  out,  and  pull  each  piece  into  its 
original  size  and  sliape,  then  throw  immediately  into  another  tub  of  boiling 
water,  in  which  you  have  thoroughly  mixed  some  nice  bluing.  Shake  them 
up  and  down  in  this  last  water  with  a  clothes-stick  until  cool  enough  for  the 
hands,  then  rinse  well,  wring,  siiake  out  and  pull  into  sha^)e — the  snapping 
and  pulling  are  as  necessary  as  the  washing — and  hang  in  a  sunny  place 
where  they  will  dry  quickly.  Many  nrefer  to  rinse  in  two  waters  with  the 
bluing  in  the  last,  ana  this  is  always  an vi.S4ible  when  there  are  many  flannels. 

Care  of  Irons. — When  irons  iJecome  rough  or  smoky,  lay  a  little  fine 
«alt  on  aflat  surface  and  rub  them  well;  it  will  prevent  them  sticking  to 
any  thing  starched,  and  make  them  smooth  ;  or  scour  with  bath-brick  before 
heating,  and  when  hot  rub  well  with  salt,  and  then  with  a  small  piece  of 
beoswax  tied  up  in  a  rag,  after  which  wipe  clean  on  a  dry  cloth.  A  piece 
of  fine  sandpaper  is  also  a  good  thing  to  have  near  the  stove,  or  a  hard, 
smooth  board  covered  with  brick  dust,  to  r^ib  each  iron  on  when  it  is  put 
back  on  the  stove,  so  tliat  no  starch  may  remain  to  be  burnt  on.  Put  l^ees- 
wax  between  pieces  of  paper  or  cloth  and  keep  on  the  table  close  by  the 
flat-iron  stand.  If  the  irons  get  coated  with  scorched  starch,  rub  them  over 
the  paper  that  holds  the  beeswax  and  it  will  all  come  off.  Rubbing  the  iron 
over  the  waxed  paper,  even  if  no  starch  adheres,  adds  to  the  glossiness  of  the 
linen  that  is  ironed. 

Washing  Lace.— To  make  the  starch  properly,  mix  the  dry  particles  with 
enough  cold  water  to  make  a  smooth  jtaste,  add  cold  water  until  it  looks 
like  milk  and  water,  and  boil  it  in  a  smoothly  glazed  earthen  vessel  until  it 
is  perfectly  transparent.  While  it  is  cooling  squeeze  the  laces  through  a 
soap-snds,*  and  rinse  them  in  clear  water.  If  you  wish  them  clear  white,  add 
a  little  bluing;  if  ivory  white,  omit  the  bluing,  and  if  yellow-tinged  add  a 
few  teaspoons  clear  coffee  to  the  starch.  Run  through  the  starch,  saueeLv*, 
roll  up  in  towels,  and  clap  each  piece  separately  until  dry:  pull  gently  into 
shape,  from  time  to  time,  with  the  finger. •>  and  pin  on  the  ironing  taole  or 
bosom-board  or  upon   the   pillows  in  the   •'  spare "   bedroom.     When  dry. 


THE  LAUNDRY.  531 

press  between  tissue  paper  with  a  hot  iron,  punch  the  openings  with  an 
ivory  stiletto,  and  pick  each  pearl  or  loop  on  the  edge  with  a  coarse  pin 
until  it  looks  like  new  lace. 

Lawn  and  Muslin  Dresses  that  have  faded  may  be  whitened  in  the  boiling 
suds,  and  bleached  on  the  grass,  and.  when  done  up,  are  quite  as  pretty  as 
dresses  made  of  new  white  material.  Delicate  hued  muslin  and  cambric 
dresses  may  be  washed  nicely  by  the  follow^ing  process:  Shave  half  a  pound 
of  common  hard  soap  into  a  gallon  of  boiling  water;  let  it  melt,  turn  it  into 
a  tub  of  lukewarm  water ;  stir  a  quart  of  wlieat  bran  into  a  second  tub  of 
lukewarm  water,  and  have  ready  a  third  tub  with  clear  water;  put  the  dress 
into  the  first  tub  of  suds,  rub  gently,  or  rather  "souse"  it  up  and  down,  and 
squeeze  it  out;  treat  it  the  sanie  in  the  tub  of  bran  water;  rinse,  dry  and  dii> 
in  starch  made  the  same  as  for  shirts ;  dry  a^in,  and  then  rinse  tlioroughl y 
in  clear  water;  dry  again,  and  sprinkle  with  a  whisk-broom  or  sprinkler; 
roll  up  in  a  thick  cloth  while  the  iron  gets  hot,  and  iron  with  them  as  hot  as 
they  can  be  used  without  scorching  the  dress.  By  taking  a  clear  day,  it  is 
little  trouble  to  do  several  dresses  in  a  few  hours. 

To  Remove  Grease  fi^om  Silk,  Cotton,  Linen  or  Worsted  Goods. — 
Rub  magnesia  freely  on  both  sides  of  silk  or  worsted  goods  and  hang  away. 
Benzine,  ether  or  soap  will  take  out  spots  from  silk,  but  remember  the  goods 
must  not  be  rubbed.  Oil  of  turpentine  or  benzine  will  remove  spots  of 
paint,  varnish  or  pitch  from  white  or  colored  cotton  or  woolen  goods.  After 
using  it,  they  should  be  washed  in  soap-suds.  Spots  from  sperm  candles, 
stearine,  and  the  like,  should  be  softened  and  removed  •  by  ninety-five  per 
cent,  alcohol,  then  sponged  off  with  a  weak  alcohol,  and  a  small  quantity  of 
ammonia  added  to  it.  Holding  white  cotton  or  linen  over  the  fumes  of 
burniitg  sulphur,  and  wetting  in  warm  chlorine  water,  will  take  out  wine  or 
fruit  stains.  The  sooner  the  remedy  is  applied,  after  any  of  these  spots  or 
stains  are  discovered,  the  more  effectual  the  restoration.  '  From  white  linen 
or  cotton  by  soap-suds  or  weak  lye,  and  from  calicoes  with  warm  soap-suds. 
From  woolens  by  soap-suds  or  ammonia.  On  silks  use  either  yolk  of  egg 
with  water,  magnesia,  ether,  benzine,  ammonia,  or  French  chalk.* 

To  Press  and  Clean  Silks. — All  satin  goods  should  be  pressed  upon  the 
ri^ht  side.  To  press  and  clean  black  silk,  shake  out  all  the  dust,  clean  well 
with  a  flannel  cloth,  rubbing  it  up  and  down  over  the  silk :  this  takes  out 
all  dust  that  may  be  left;  take  some  good  lager  beer  and  sponge  the  silk, 
both  on  the  wrong  and  right  side,  sponging  across  the  width  of  the  silk, 
and  not  down  the  length,  and  with  a  moderately-warm  iron,  press  what  is 
intended  for  the  wrong  .side.  After  sponging,  it  is  better  to  wait  a  few 
minutes  before  pressing,  as  the  irons  will  not  be  so  apt  to  stick. 

Or,  sponge  with  hot  coffee,  thoroughly  freed  from  sediment  by  being 
strained  through  muslin.  The  silk  is  sponged  on  the  side  intended  to  show, 
it  is  allowed  to  become  partially  dry,  and  then  ironed  on  the  wrong  side. 
The  coffee  removes  every  particle  of  grease,  and  restores  the  brilliancy  of 
flilk.  without  giving  it  eitncr  the  shiny  appearance  or  crackly  or  papery 
stiffness  obtained  by  beer  or  any  other  liquid.  The  silk  appears  thickened 
bj'  the  process,  and  this  good  effect  remains. 

To  Make  Hard  Soap. — Place  one  gallon  of  good  soft  soap  in  a  kettle  to 
boil ;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  a  pint  measure  level  full  of  common 
salt,  stirring  it  all  the  time  until  the  salt  is  dissolved,  then  set  to  cool. 
Next  day,  cut  out  the  soap  in  squares,  vscrape  off  the  soft,  dark  part,  that 
adheres  to  the  lower  side  of  the  cakes,  pour  out  the  lye,  and  wash  the  ket- 
tle; place  the  soap,  cut  in  thin  slices  in  the  kettle,  with  more  weak  !ye. 
If  the  lye  is  strong  add  rain-water,  pint  for  pint;  let  it  boil  until  the  soap 
■is  dissolved.  While  boiling,  again  stir  in  a  pint  measure  level  full  of  sail, 
stirring  it  some  as  before,  and  set  to  cool.  When  perfectly  hanl,  cut  it  in 
cakes  tlie  size  you  wish,  scraping  off  the  soft  lye  part  that  adheres  to  the 
lower  side,  and  lay  on  boards,  top  side  down  in  the  sun,  turning  it  each 
day  until   sufficiently  dry.     Or,  if   you  wish    to    make  a  twelve  or  four^ 


532  THE  LA  US  DRY. 

teen  gallon  kettle  of  soft  soap  into  hard,  three  quarts  of  salt,  stirred  In  each 
time,  will  be  suthcicnt.  But  as  soapdiflfers  in  strength,  the  quantity  of  salt 
must  also  (lifTiT.  Tiie  stronger  the  soap  the  more  salt  is  requinnl.  A  good 
general  rule  is  our  old  grandmother's:  "When  tlie  stmp  is  iMjiling.  stir  in 
salt  until  it  curdles  and  becomes  whitish  in  color."  It  can  be  tested  by 
placing  some  in  a  shallow  pan  to  co«j1,  as  it  cools  in  a  few  minutes  sum- 
ciently  to  know  if  enough  salt  is  in. 

To  Bleach  Mitslin. — For  thirty  yards  of  muslin,  take  one  pound  of  chlo- 
ride of  lime,  dissolve  in  two  quarts  rain-water;  let  cloth  soak  over  night  in 
warm  rain-water,  or  long  enough  to  be  thoroughly  wet;  wring  out  cloth 
and  put  in  another  tub  of  warm  ruin-water  in  wliich  the  chloride  of  lime 
solution  has  been  pourod.  Let  it  remain  for  alxiut  twenty  minutes,  lifting 
up  the  cloth  and  airing  evury  few  minutes,  and  rinse  in  clear  rain-water. 
This  will  not  injure  the  vUtih  in  the  least,  and  is  much  less  troublesome 
than  bleaching  on  the  grass. 

Or,  scnld  in  suds  and  lay  them  on  the  clean  gra.<5s  all  night,  or  if  this. 
can  not  be  done,  bring  in  and  place  in  a  tub  of  clean  soft  water.  In  the 
morning  scald  again  and  put  out  as  before.  It  will  take  from  one  to  two 
weeks  to  bleach  white.  May  be  bleached  in  winter  by  placing  on  the  snow. 
Mav  is  the  best  month  for  bleaching.  To  whiten  yelfow  linens  or  muslins, 
soak  over-night,  or  longer,  in  buttermilk ;  rinse  thoroughly  and  wash  thcF 
same  as  other  clothes.  This  will  also  answer  for  light  calicoes,  percales, 
lawns,  etc.,  that  will  not  fade.  Some  use  sour  milk  when  not  able  to  pro- 
cure buttermilk.  To  whiten  yellow  laces,  old  collars,  etc.,  put  in  a  glass 
bottle  or  jar  in  a' strong  suds*  let  stand  in  sun  for  seven  days,  shaking  oc- 
casitmally. 

To  Wash  Lace  Curtains. — Shake  the  dust  well  out  of  the  lace,  fiut  in 
tepid  water,  in  which  a  little  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  wash  at  once  care- 
fully with  the  hands  in  several  waters,  or  until  perfectly  clean;  rin.se  in 
water  well  blued,  also  blue,  the  boiled  starch  quite  deeply  and  squeeze,  but 
do  not  wring.  Pin  some  sheets  down  to  the  carpet  in  a  vacant,  airy  room, 
then  pin  on  the  curtains  stretched  to  exactly  the  size  they  were  before  being 
wet.  In  a  few  hours  thejr  will  be  drv  and  ready  to  put  up.  The  whole  pro- 
cess of  washing  and  pinning  down  should  occupy  as  little  time  as  j)ossiole, 
as  lace  will  shrink  more  than  any  other  cotton  goods  when  long  wet.  Above 
all,  it  should  not  be  allowed  to  '**soak"  from  the  mistaken  idea  that  it  washes 
more  ea-sily,  nor  should  it  ever  be  ironed.  Another  way  is  to  fasten  them  in 
a  pair  of  frames,  which  every  housekeeper  should  have,  made  very  like  the 
old-fashioned  quil ting-frames,  thickly  studded  along  the  inside  with  the 
smallest  size  of  galvanized  tenter  hooks,  in  which  to  fasten  the  lace,  and  hav- 
ing holes  and  wooden  pins  with  which  to  very  the  length  and  breadth  to  suit 
the  dilTercnt  sizes  of  curtains.  The  curtains  should  always  be  measured 
before  being  wet,  and  stretched  in  the  frames  to  that  size  to  prevent  shrink- 
ing. Five  or  six  curtains  of  the  same  size  may  be  j»ut  in,  one  above  the 
other,  and  all  dried  at  once.     The  frames  may  rest  on  four  chairs. 

How  TO  i>o  vp  Shirt-Bosoms. — To  fine  starch  add  a  piece  of  "Enamel" 
the  size  of  a  hazel-nut;  if  this  is  not  at  hand  use  a  table-spoon  gum-arabic 
solution  (made  by  pouring  boiling  water  ui)()n  gum-arabic  and  standing  un- 
til clear  and  transparent),  or  a  piece  of  clean  mutton-tallow  half  the  size  of 
a  nutmeg  and  a  tea-spoon  of  salt  will  do,  but  is  not  as  good.  Strain  the 
starch  througli  a  strainer  or  a  piece  of  thin  muslin.  Have  the  sliirt  turned 
wrong  side  out;  dip  the  bosoms  carefully  in  the  fine  starch,  made  according 
to  recij>e,  and  squeeze  out,  repeating  the  operation  until  the  bosoms  are 
thoroughly  and  evenly  saturated  with  starcn;  proceed  to  dry.  Three  hours 
before  ironing  dip  the  bosoms  in  clean  water;  wring  out  and  roll  up  tightly. 
First  iron  the  back  by  folding  it  lengthwise  through  the  center;  next  iron  the 
wristbands,  and  both  sides  of  the  sleeves;  then  the  collar-band;  now  place 
the  bosom-board  under  the  bosom,  and  with  a  dampened  napkin  rub  the 
bosom  from  the  top  towards  the  bottom,  smoothing  and  arranging  each  plait 


THE  LAUNDRY,  53 


♦-» 


neatly.  With  smooth,  moderately  hot  flat-iron,  begin  at  the  top  and  Iron 
downwards,  and  continue  the  operation  until  the  bosom  is  perfectly  dry  and 
shining.  Remove  the  bosom-board,  and  iron  the  front  of  the  shirt.  The 
bosoms  and  cuffs  of  shirts,  indeed  of  all  nice  fine  work,  will  look  clearer 
and  better  if  they  are  first  ironed  under  a  piece  of  thin  old  muslin.  It  takes 
off  the  first  heat  of  the  iron,  and  removes  any  lumps  of  starch. 

Washing  Fluid. — The  very  best  known,  as  it  saves  time,  labor,  clothes 
and  soap :  One  pound  sal-soda,  one-half  pound  stone  lime,  five  quarts  soft 
water,  (some  add  one-fifth  pound  borax);  boil  a  short  time  in  copper  or 
brass  kettle,  stirring  occasionally,  let  settle  and  pour  off  the  clear  tluiu  into 
a  stone  jug,  and  cork  for  use  ;  soak  white  clothes  over  night  in  simple  water, 
wring  out  and  soap  wristbands,  collars,  and  dirty  stained  places  ;  have  boiler 
half  filled  with  water,  and  when  at  scalding  heat  put  in  one  common  tea- 
cup of  fluid,  stir  and  put  in  clothes,  and  boil  half  an  hour,  rub  lightly 
through  one  suds  only,  rirysing  well  in  the  bluing  water  as  usual,  and.  all 
is  complete.  Instead  or  soaking  clothes  over  night,  they  may  soak  in  suds 
for  a  lew  hours  before  beginning  washing.  For  each  additional  boiler  of 
clothes,  add  half  a  cup  only  of  the  fluid,  of  course  boiling  in  the  same  water 
through  the  whole  washing.  If  more  water  is  needed  in  the  boiler  for  the 
last  clothes,  dip  it  from  the  sud.sing  tub.  This  fluid  brightens  instead  of 
fading  the  colors  in  calico,  and  is  good  for  colored  flannels.  It  does  not  rot 
clothes,  but  they  must  not  lie  long  in  t/ie  water;  tlie  boiling,  sudsing^  rinsing  and 
bluing  mttst  follow  each  other  in  rapid  snxcessiony  until  clothes  are  hun^  on  the 
line,  whichshould  be  by  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning.  Sonie  of  this  fluid, 
put  in  hot  water,  is  excellent  for  removing  grease  spots  from  the  floor,  doors 
and  windows;  also  for  cleansing  tin- ware,  pots,  and  Kettles. — Mrs.  Rose  Sharp, 
Kingston,  0. 

To  Wash  Woolen  Goods. — Dissolve  a  large  table-spoon  borax  in  a  pint 
boiling  water.  Mix  one-quarter  of  it  in  the  cold  water  in  which  greasy 
woolen  goods  are  to  be  washed.  Put  in  one  piece  at  a  time,  using  soap,  if 
needed;  and  if  necessary  add  more  of  the  borax -water.  Wash  and  rinse  in 
cold  water.     Shake  welland  hang  where  the  goods  will  dry  quickly. 

Flannels  can  be  washed  in  the  same  way.  The  important  thing  in  wash- 
ing flannels  is  to  have  all  waters  of  the  same  temperature.  If  you  begin 
with  cold,  go  through  with  cold ;  if  with  hot,  have  all  waters  equally  hot.  They 
must  not  be  allow^ed  to  freeze  in  (frying.  Some  add  a  little  salt  to  the  last 
rinsing  water.  In  washing  flannels  be  careful  that  the  soap  used  has  no  resin 
in  it.  When  flannels  are  nearly  dry,  take  in,  fold  carefully,  roll  up  in  a 
damp  cloth  so  that  they  will  iron  smoothly. 

In  ironing  heavy  woolen  goods,  especially  pants,  vests,  etc.,  it  is  well  to 
le*.  them  get  dried,  th?n  spread  them  out  on  an  ironing-board  (not  on  a 
table),  wring-a  cloth  out  or  clear  water  and  lay  over  the  article,  tlien  iron 
with  a  hot  iron  till  dry;  wet  the  cloth  again  and  spread  it  just  above  the 
part  already  ironed,  but  let  it  come  a  half  inch  or  so  on  that  which  has  been 
pressed,  so  that  there  will  be  no  line  to  mark  where  the  cloth  was  moved, 
continue  this  till  the  whole  garment  lias  been  thoroughly  pressed.  Woolen 
garments  thus  ironed  will  look  like  new;  but  in  doing  this«care  must  be 
exercised  that  every  spot  that  Icjoks  at  all  "fulled"  or  shrunk  should  be 
stretched  while  being  pressed  under  the  wet  cloth.  Bring  the  outsiilc  to  fit 
the  linings,  as  when  new,  but  if  not  (jviite  able  to  do  this,  rip  the  lining  and 
trim  off  to  match.  All  the  seams,  es})orially  on  pants,  must  be  first  pressed 
on  a** press  board,"  then  fold  the  pants  as  they  arc  found  in  the  tailor's 
shop,  and  go  over  them  with  the  wet  cloth  and  hot  iron. 

To  Dry-starcii,  Fold  and  lRf>x  Shirts. — In  doing  up  shirts,  wrist- 
bands and  collars  should  be  starched  first  if  the  collars  are  sewed  on.  Dip 
them  into  the  hot  starch,  and  as  soon  as  the  hand  can  bear  the  heat  (and 
dipping  the  hand  in  cold  water  often  will  expedite  the  work)  rub  the  starch 
in  very  thoroughly,  taking  care  that  no  motes  or  lumps  of  starch  adhere  to 
the  linen.    Then  starch  the  shirt-bosom  the  same  wa}**,  keeping  the  starch 


534  THE  LAUNDRY, 

hot  all  the  time  bv  setting*  the  dish  in  a  deep  pan  of  water.     Rub  it  into  the 
linen  very  carefully,  puss  the  finger  under  the  plaits  and  raise  them  up  so  that 
the  stiircii  slmll  i)enetrate  all  through  evenly.      Some  rub  it  into  the  plaits 
with  a  piece  of  clean  linen,  but  we  think  the  hand  does  the  work  more  thor- 
oughly and  evenly.     When  perfectly  starched,  shake  out  tlie  shirt  evenly. 
Cold  both  sides  of   the  bosom  together  and  bring  the   shoulders    and    siae 
seams  together  evenly  ;  that  will  lay  tlie sleeves  one  over  the  other,  and  after 
pulling  the  wristbands  into  shape  smoothly  they  can  thus  l)e  folded  together 
and  the  wristbands  rolled  tightlyand,  with  the  sleeves,  be  folded  and  laid 
even  on  the  sides  of  the  shirt.    Then  turn  the  sides  with  the  sleeves  tner 
on  the  front,  and  l>eginiung  at  the  neck  roll  the   whole  tightly  together, 
wrap  in  u  towel  and  let  it  remain  so  several  hours  before  ironing — all  night 
if  starched  and   folded  in  the  evening — and  in  the  summer  put  in  a  cool 
place  where  the  starch  will  not  sour,  and  in  the  winter  keep  warm  enough 
to  prevent  freezing.    To  do  up  shirt-bosoms  iif  the  most  perfect  wav.  one 
must  have  a  "  |K>lishin^  iron    — a  small  iron  rounded  over  and  high fy  pol- 
ished on  the  ends  and  sides.    Spread  the  bosom  on  a  hard  and  very  sinoofh 
board,  with  only  one  thickness  oi  cotton  cloth  sewed  tight  across  it.    Spread 
a  wet  cloth  over  and  iron  quickly  with  a  hot  iron,  tnen  remove  the  cloth 
and  with  a  poli.shing  iron  as  hot  as  it  can  be    used  without  scorching,  rub 
the  bosom  quick  and    hard  up  and  down,  not  crosswise.     Use  only  the 
rounded  part  oi*  the  front  of  tne  iron,  that  puts  all  the  friction  on  a  small 
part  at  one  time,  and  gives    the  full  benent  of  all  the  gloss  in  starch   or 
linen. — Mrs.  Beecher^  in  Christian  Union. 

iSoAP  FOR  Family  Use. — Much  of  the  toilet  and  laundry  soaps  in  the 
market  are  adultenited  with  injurious,  and,  to  some  persons,  poisonous  sub- 
tances,  by  which  diseases  of  the  skin  are  occasioned  or  grcatl3'  aggravated, 
and  great  sutfering  results,  which  is  rarely  traced  to  the  real  cause.  The  fat 
tried  from  animals  which  have  died  of  disease,  if  not  thoroughly  saponified, 
is  poisonous,  and  sometimes  produces  death.  If  in  making  soap  the  mass  is 
heated  to  too  high  a  degree,  a  lilm  of  soap  forms  around  the  particles  of  fat; 
if  at  this  stage  resin,  sal-soda,  silicate,  and  other  adulterations  are  added,  the 
fat  is  not  saponified,  but  filmed,  and  if  poisonous  or  diseased,  it  so  remains, 
and  is  dangerous  to  use.  A  bar  of  such  soap  has  an  oil^  feeling,  and  is 
unfit  for  use.  If  it  feels  sticky,  it  has  too  much  resin  in  it.  The  slippery 
feeling  which  belongs  to  soap  properly  made  can  not  be  mistaken.  Another 
test  of  pure  soft  or  hard  soap  is  its  translucent  or  semi-transparent  appear- 
ance. Soft  soap  that  is  cloudy  is  not  thoroughly  saponified,  or  else  has  oeen 
made  of  dirty  or  impure  grease.  It  is  not  only  safer  but  more  economical 
to  buy  pure  soap,  as  the  adulterations  increase  tlie  quantity  without  adding 
to  the  erasive  ixiwer.  Some  of  the  brown  soaps  sola  in  the  market  are  sev- 
enty-five percent,  resin,  and  the  buyer  gets  only  twenty-five  per  cent  of  what 
he  wants  for  his  money.  Fifteen  per  cent  of  resin  improves  the  quality,  but 
any  excess  damages  it,  and  is  worse  than  useless.  Almost  any  ramily  may 
make  excellent  soft  soap  with  very  little  expense  by  saving  grease,^nd  using 
lye  from  pure  hard  wood  ashes  or  pure  potash.    Never  use  concentrated  lye. 

To  set  the  leach^  bore  several  auger  holes  in  the  bottom  of  a  barrel ;  or 
use  one  without  a  bottom;  prepare  a  board  larger  than  the  barrel,  set  barrel 
on  it,  and  cut  a  groove  arouna  just  outside  the  barrel,  making  one  groove 
from  this  to  the  edge  of  the  board  to  carry  off  the  lye  as  it  runs  off,  with  a 

? groove  around  it,  running  into  one  in  the  center  of  the  board.  Place  two 
eet  from  the  ground,  and  tip  so  that  the  lye  may  run  easily  from  the  board 
into  the  vessel  below  prepared  to  receive  it.  Put  half-bricks  or  stones 
around  the  edge  of  insine  of  barrel,  place  on  them  one  end  of  sticks  one  or 
two  inches  wide,  inclining  to  the  center;  place  straw  to  the  depth  of  two 
inches,  over  it  scatter  two  p)unds  slacked  lime ;  put  in  the  ashes  aoout  a  half 
bushel  at  a  time,  pack  well  by  using  a  pounder,  spade,  or  common  ax ;  con- 
tinue to  pack  until  barrel  is  full,  leaving  a  funnel-snaped  hollow  in  the  center 
large  enough  to  hold  several  quarts  of  water.    Use  soft  or  rain-water,  and 


THE  LAUNDRY.  535 

boiling  hot.  I>et  the  first  water  disappear  before  adding  more.  If  the  ashes 
are  packed  very  tightly,  it  may  require  two  or  three  days  before  the  lye  will 
begin  to  run»  but  it  is  much  better  as  it  will  be  stronger.  If  a  large  quantity 
of  lye  is  needed,  prepare  a  board  long  enough  to  hold  two  or  more  barrels, 
one  back  of  the  other,  with  a  groove  in  the  center  the  entire  length  of  the 
board ;  on  this  place  the  barrels  prepared  as  above. 

Sun  or  Cold  Soap  is  made  by  adding  one  pound  of  cleansed  grease, 
spoiled  lard  or  butter,  to  each  gallon  of  lye  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg. 
Set  the  vessel  in  the  sun  and  stir  thoroughly  each  day  until  it  is  good  soap. 
This  gives  it  a  golden  color,  and  produces  an  exceHont  soap  for  washing.  It 
inay  be  used  in  washing  even  laces  and  fine  cambrics  with  perfect  safety. 

To  cleanse  grease. -^Vlace  all  grease  of  whatever  kind,  soup  Ixmes,  hani- 
rinds,  cracklings,  or  any  refuse  fat  into  a  kettle,  with  weak  lye  enough  to 
boil  it  until  all  the  particles  of  fat  are  extracted  ;  let  it  cool,  then  skim  off 
the  grease,  which  is  now  ready  to  make  the  *'  Sun  Soap.'*  I  would  add  here 
that  no  fat  should  be  put  away  for  soap  grease  until  fried  thoroughly. 

Boiled  Soap. — ^There  is  no  romance  or  poetry  in  making  boiled  soap,  only 
patient  hard  work;  yet  w^ithout  this  useful  article,  what  an  unpresentable 
people  we  should  be.  Place  the  grease,  consisting  of  soup-bones  and  all 
Kinds  of  fat  that  accumulate  in  a  kitchen,  in  a  kettle,  filling  it  only  half  full ; 
if  there  is  too  much  fat,  it  can  be  skimmed  off  after  the  soap  is  cold,  for 
another  kettle  of  soap.  This  is  the  only  true  test  when  enough  fat  is  used, 
as  the  lye  will  consume  all  that  is  needed  and  no  more.  Make  a  fire  under 
one  side  of  it.  The  kettle  should  be  in  an  out-house  or  out  of  doors.  Let 
it  heat  very  hot  so  as  to  fry,  and  stir  it  to  prevent  burning;  now  put  in  the 
lye,  a  gallon  at  the  time,  watch  closely  until  it  boils,  as  it  iM^metimes  runs 
over  at  the  beginning.  Add  lye  until  the  kettle  is  full  enough,  but  not  too 
full,  to  boil  well.  Soap  should  boil  from  the  side  and  not  the  middle,  as 
this  would  be  more  likely  to  cause  it  to  boil  over.  To  test  the  soap,  to  one 
spoonful  of  soap  add  one  of  rain-water;  if  it  stirs  up  very  thick,  the  soap  is 
good  and  will  keep;  if  it  becomes  thinner,  it  is  unfit  for  use. 

This  is  the  result  of  one  of  three  causes:  it  is  too  weak,  there  is  a  deposit 
of  dirt,  or  it  is  too  strong.  Continue  to  boil  for  a  few  hours,  when  it  should 
flow  from  the  stick  with  which  it  is  stirred,  like  thick  molasses ;  but  if  after 
boiling  it  remains  thin,  let  it  stand  over  night,  removing  the  fire,  then  drain 
very  carefully  into  another  vessel,  being  particular  to  prevent  any  sediment 
frorn  passing.  Wash  the  kettle,  return  the  soap  and  bring  to  a  boil,  and  if 
the  cause  was  dirt,  it  will  now  be  thick  and  good,  otherw^ise  it  is  too  strong 
and  needs  rain-water  added.  *  This  can  safely  be  done  by  jwuring  in  a  small 
quantity  at  a  time,  until  it  becomes  thick.  These  are  the  usual  causes  that 
arise  to  trouble  soap-makers.  If  other  difficulties  appear,  they  must  use 
good  common  sen.se  to  meet  and  overcome  them. 

It  might  not  be  amiss  to  add  to  this,  the  most  economical  way  of  saving 
soap  grease.  Have  a  kettle  standing  in  the  yard  in  summer  time  (or  if  there 
is  not  a  yard,  in  cellar),  and  as  you  save  a  little  grease  put  it  in,  but  do  not 
put  in  raw  grease.  If  there  are* any  pieces  of  fat  left  after  using  a  hnni  or 
lumps  of  suet  not  used  in  C(X)king  a  steak,  put  them  in  a  skillet  and  fry  them 
brown,  then  put  all  into  the  kettle  of  lye;  thus  every  particle  of  fat  will  be 
saved,  and  no  fear  of  insects,  rats  or  nlice  getting  into  and  destroying  the 
grease.  Keep  the  kettle  covered  during  night  or  when  raining,  but  un- 
covered in  the  sunshine,  stirring  occasionally.  In  the  fall,  all  that  is  neces- 
sary is  to  make  a  fire  under  the  kettle,  and'  let  it  boil  a  short  time,  adding 
more  lye  or  grease  if  needed.  If  there  are  too  many  bones  in  it,  or  any  par- 
ticles that  have  not  become  consumed,  skim  them  out  and  put  them  in  a  |)0t 
of  weak,  hot  lye,  .stirring  them  with  the  skimmer  to  rinse  off  all  the  soap,  then 
skim  out  and  throw  away,  and  the  pot  of  lye  which  has  become  almost  soap, 
may  now  be  added  to  the  kettle  of  good  soap.  A  few  beef  bones  left  ih  the 
barrel  will  sink  to  the  bottom,  and  are  said  by  some  good  housewives  to 
improve  the  soap.  Soft  soap  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place  in  cellar,  and  is 
better  if  allowea  to  stand  three  months  before  using. 


THE  CELLAR  AND  ICE-HOUSE. 


The  cellar,  when  properly  constructed  and  cared  for,  is  the  most  usefdl 
room  in  the  house,  and  no  dwelling  is  complete  without  one.  It  is  economy 
of  expense  and  ground-space  to  build  it  under  ground,  and  this  plan  gives 
the  best  cellar  whenever  the  site  of  the  house  permits  thorough  drainage. 
The  base  of  the  foundation-wall  of  the  house  should  be  laid  a  little  below 
the  floor-level  of  the  cellar,  and  the  first  layer  should  be  of  broad  flag-stones, 
80  placed  that  the  edges  will  project  a  few  inches  beyond  the  outer  face  of 
the  walL  This  eflectually  prevents  rats  from  undermining  the  cement  floor, 
"which  they  often  do  when  this  precaution  is  neglected,  digging  away  the  dirt 
until  the  floor  breaks  and  gives  them  access  to  a  new  depot  of  supplies.  In 
burrowing  downwards,  they  invariably  keep  close  to  the  wall,  and  when  they 
reach  the  projecting  flagging,  give  it  up  and  look  for  an  easier  job.  To  secure 
the  cellar  from  freezing,  the  wall,  above  the  level  of  the  deepest  frost,  should 
be  double  or  "hollow^,*'  the  inner  wall  being  of  brick  four  inches  thick,  with 
an  air-space  of  two  inches  between  it  and  the  outer  wall,  which  should  be  of 
stone  and  twelve  or  fourteen  inches  thick.  The  brick  wall  should  be  stiff- 
ened by  an  occasional  **  binder"  across  to  the  stone.  The  hollow  space  may 
be  filled  with  dry  tan-bark  or  sawdust,  or  left  simply  filled  with  tlie  confined 
air,  "dead  air"  being  the  most  perfect  non-conductor  of  heat  known.  The 
windows,  which  should  be  opposite  each  other  when  possible,  to  secure  a 
"draft"  and  more  perfect  ventilation,  should  be  provided  with  double  sash 
<^one  flush  with  the  outer  face  of  the  wall,  which  may  be  removed  in  sum- 
mer, and  the  other  flush  with  the  inner  face,  hung  on  strong  hinges,  so  that 
It  may  easily  be  swung  open  upward  and  hooked  there.  In  winter,  this 
arrangement  lets  in  light,  but  with  its  space  of  confined  air,  keeps  out  the 
frost.  A  frame  covered  with  wire  netting  should  take  the  place  of  the  outer 
sash  in  summer,  to  keep  out  every  thing  but  the  fresh  air  and  light.  The 
walls  should  be  as  smooth  as  possible  on  the  inner  side,  and  neatly  plastered; 
also  the  ceiling  overhead.  The  floor  should  be  first  paved  w^ith  small  stones, 
then  a  coat  of  water-lime  laid  on,  and  over  this  a  second  coat,  as  level  as  a 
planed  floor.  Tl\/ere  should  also  be  double  doors,  one  flush  with  each 
face  of  the  wall ;  and  a  wide  out-door  stairway,  through  which  vegetables, 
coal,  etc.,  may  be  carried,  is  indispensable.  The  depth  should  be  about  eight 
feet. 

Such  a  cellar  may  always  be  clean,  the  air  pure,  and  the  temperature 
junder  complete  control.  It  will  consequently  keep  apples  and  pears  two  or 
threfe  months  longer  than  an  ordinary  cellar,  prolonging  the  fruit  season  to 
"strawberry- time."  If  it  extends  under  the  whole  house — the  best  plan 
when  the  state  of  the  purse  permits  it — it  may  be  divided  into  apartments, 
(536) 


THi:  CELLAR  AND  ICE-HOUSE,  537 


I 


with  brick  walls  between — one  for  vegetables,  one  for  fruits,  one  for  provis- 
ions, one  for  the  laundry,  and  a  fifth  for  coal  and  the  furnace,  if  one  is  used. 
In  one  corner  of  the  cellar,  under  the  kitchen,  may  also  be  the  cistern,  the 
strong  cellar  wall  serving  for  its  outer  wall.  A  pump  from  the  kitchen 
would  supply  water  tliere  for  domestic  uses ;  and  a  pipe  with  a  stop-cock, 
leading  through  the  wall  into  the  cellar,  would  occasionally  be  a  conven- 
ience and  save  labor.  It  is  better,  however,  as  a  rule,  to  locate  the  cistern 
just  outside  the  house,  passing  a  pi|)e  from  it  through  the  cellar  wall  below 
the  deepest  frost  level,  and  thence  to  the  kitchen.  If  built  in  the  cellar,  tlic 
cistern  should  be  square,  with  heavy  walls,  plastered  inside  with  three  coats 
of  water-lime. 

All  the  apartments  of  a  cellar  should  be  easily  accessible  {rom  the  outside 
door  and  from  the  kitchen  stairway.  In  the  vegetable  apartment,  the  bins 
should  be  made  of  dressed  luml>er,  and  painted,  and  located  in  the  center, 
with  a  walk  around  each,  so  that  the  contents  may  easily  be  examined  and 
assorted.  The  fruit  shelves,  made  of  slats  two  inches  wide  and  placed  one 
inch  apart,  should  be  put  up  with  equal  care  and  neatness,  and  with  equal 
regard  for  convenience  and  easy  access.  Their  plaoe  should  be  the  most  airy 
part  of  the  cellar ;  the  proper  width  is  about  two  feet,  and  the  distance  apart 
about  one  foot,  witli  the  lowest  shelf  one  foot  from  the  floor.  Pears  will 
ripen  nicely  on  the  lower  shelves  under  a  cover  of  woolen  blankets.  The 
supports  should,  of  course,  be  firm  and  strong.  The  bottom  shelf  sliouid  be 
of  one  board,  on  which  to  scatter  fine  fresh  lime  to  the  depth  of  an  inch, 
changing  it  two  or  three  times  during  the  winter.  A  shelf,  suspended  firmly 
from  the  ceiling,  and  located  where  it  will  be  easy  of  access  from  the  kitchen, 
on  which  to  place  cakes,  pies,  meats,  and  any  thing  that  needs  to  be  kept 
cool  and  safe  from  cats  and  mice,  is  an  absolute  necessity.  Its  height  pre- 
vents t!ie  articles  placed  on  it  from  becoming  damp,  and  gathering  mold,  as 
they  sometimes  do  when  placed  on  Uie  cellar  floor.  In  planning  shelves  for 
cans,  crocks,  casks,  etc.,  regard  should  be  had  to  economy  of  space  by  making 
the  distance  between  the  shelves  correspond  to  the  articles  to  stand  on  them, 
and  it  is  well  to  so  place  the  lower  shelf  that  the  meat  barrels,  etc.,  may  be 
placed  under  it.  The  temperature  of  a  cellar  should  never  be  below  freezing, 
and  if  it  is  raised  aljove  fifty  by  a  fire,  outside  air  should  be  admitted  to 
lower  it.  The  best  time  for  ventilating  the  cellar  is  at  noon,  taking  care  in 
hot  weather  not  to  admit  so  much  outside  air  as  to  render  it  warm.  A  sim- 
ple and  excellent  plan  for  ventilation,  where  the  location  of  the  kitchen 
chimney  admits  it,  is  to  pass  an  ordinary  stove-pipe  through  the  floor  upward 
beside  or  behind  the  pipe  of  the  kitclien  stove,  and  thence  by  an  elbow  into 
the  chimney.  The  draft  of  the  cliimney  will  carry  off  all  the  impure  air 
that  arises  in  the  cellar,  and  if  too  great  a  current  is  created,  it  may  be  brought 
under  complete  control  by  a  valve  at  the  floor. 

The  cellar  must  be  frequently  examined  and  kept  perfectly  sweet  and 
clean.    There  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  as  neat  as  the  living  rooms, 
and  as  free  from  cobwebs,  decayed  fruit  and  vegetables,  and  all  other  forms 
of  lilthiness.    Whitewashing  walls  in  winter  will  aid  iu  giving  it  tidiness. 
34 


538  THE  ICE-HOUSE. 

If  the  cellar  is  constructed.abovc  ground,  the  entire  walls  should  be  double, 
with  air  space  between,  double  windows  and  doors  being  even  more  necessary 
than  when  under-ground.  Above  all,  the  lloor  should  be  on  a  level  with 
that  of  the  kitchen,  to  save  the  woman-killing  stairs.  If  there  are  stairs,  let 
them  be  broad,  firm,  and  placed  in  the  light  if  possible.  Of  course,  every 
cellar  should  have  thorough  dniinage.  In  laying  a  tile  drain,  if  in  the  horse- 
shoe form,  place  the  circular  side  down  ;  the  narrower  the  channel,  the  swifter 
the  current  and  more  certain  to  carry  off  sediment. 

THE  STOBE-ROOM. 

A  clean,  tidy,  well-arranged  store-room  is  one  sign  of  a  good  methodical 
housekeeper.  When  stores  are  put  away  at  hap-hazard.  and  taken  out  at  any 
time  and  in  any  quantit}',  disorder  and  extravagance  prevail.  A  store-room 
ought  to  be  large,  airy,  cool,  and  dry.  Such  a  room  is  not  always  to  be  had, 
but  even  if  a  closet  has  to  be  put  up  with,  it  may  be  kept  clean.  Shelves 
should  be  ranged  around  the  walls,  hooks  fastened  to  the  edges  of  the  shelves. 
The  driest  and  coolest  part  of  the  rooms  should  be  kept  for  jams,  jellies,  and 
pickles.  All  the  jars  should  be  distinctly  labeled  at  the  front,  so  that  they 
will  not  all  need  to  be  taken  down  every  time  a  particular  jar  is  wanted 
Biscuits  or  cakes  should  be  kept  in  closely  covered  tin  boxes ;  lemons  should 
be  huug  in  nets.  Soap  should  be  bought  in  large  quantities,  and  cut  up  in 
convenient-sized  pieces,  so  that  it  may  be  dry  before  it  is  used.  Coffee,  when 
roasted,  should  b^  kept  in  small  quantities;  if  unroasted.  it  will  improve 
with  keeping.  Stores  on  no  account  £ihould  be  left  in  the  papers  in  which 
they  were  sent  from  the  grocer's,  but  should  be  put  \\\U)  tin  canisters  or 
earthenware  jars  closely  covered,  and  each  jar,  like  tlie  jam,  should  be  labeled. 
Stores  should  be  given  out  regularly,  either  daily  or  weekly.  In  order  to 
check  their  consumption,  the  housekeeper  will  do  well  to  keep  in  the  store- 
room a  memorandum  book,  with  a  pencil  fastened  to  it,  and  in  this  book  sbe 
should  enter  the  date  on  which  all  stores  were  brought  in  or  taken  out.  By 
means  of  the.se  memoranda  she  can  compare  one  week's  outgo  with  another, 
and  immediately  discover  any  extravagance.  A  hammer,  a  few  nails,  a  little 
gum,  a  ball  of  string,  a  few  sheets  of  foolscap,  and  a  pair  of  scissors,  should 
always  be  kept  in  the  store-room. 

THE   ICE-HOrSE. 

Ice  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  summer  luxuries,  and  indeed  is  almost  a  nece»- 
Mty.  It  is  so  easily  put  up,  even  in  the  country,  and  so  cheaply  protected, 
that  there  is  no  reason  why  any  one  who  is  able  to  own  or  rent  a  house  may 
not  have  it  in  liberal  supply.  A  cheap  ice-house  may  be  made  by  parti- 
tioning off  a  space  about  twelve  feel  square  in  the  wood-shed,  or  even  in  the 
barn.  The  roof  must  be  tight  over  it,  but  there  is  no  necessity  for  matched 
or  fine  lumber  for  the  walls.  They  should,  however,  be  coated  with  coal-tar 
inside,  as  the  long-continued  moisture  puts  them  to  a  severe  test  and  brings 
on  decay.  Ice  should  be  taken  from  still  places  in  running  streams,  or  from 
clear  ponds.  It  may  be  cut  with  half  an  old  cross-cut  saw,  but  there  are 
saws  and  ice-plows  made  for  the  purpose  to  be  had  in  almost  ever}'  village. 


KEEPING  FRUITS  AM)  VEGETABLES.  539 

In  cutting  ice,  as  soon  as  it  is  of  suffici«it  thickness  and  before  much  warm 
weather,  select  a  still  day,  with  the  thermometer  as  near  zero  as  may  be.  Ice 
handles  much  more  comfortably  and  easily  when  it  is  so  cold  that  it  imme' 
diately  freezes  dry,  thus  preventing  the  wet  clothes  and  mittens,  which  are 
the  sole  cause  of  any  suffering  in  handling  it ;  and  ice  put  up  in  sharp,  cold 
weather,  before  it  has  been  subjected  to  any  thaw,  will  keep  much  better  and 
be  much  more  useful  in  the  hot  days  of  summer  than  if  its  packing  had  been 
delayed  until  late  winter  or  early  spring,  and  then  the  ice  put  up  half  melted 
and  wet.  The  l^st  simple  contrivance  for  removing  blocks  of  ice  from  the 
wat^r  is  a  plank  with  a  cleat  nailed  across  one  end,  which  is  to  be  slipped 
under  the  block,  which  slides  against  the  eleat,  and  may  then  be  easily  drawn 
out  with  the  plank,  without  lifting.  Cut  the  ice  in  large  blocks  of  equal 
size,  pack  as  closely  as  possible  in  layers,  leaving  about  a  foot  space  between 
the  outside  and  the  wall,  and  filling  all  crevices  between  the  blocks  with 
pounded  ice  or  sawdust.  Under  the  first  layer  there  should  be  placed  saw- 
dust a  foot  thick,  and  arrangements  should  be  made  for  thorough  drainage,  as 
water  in  contact  with  the  ice  will  melt  it  rapidly.  As  the  layers  are  put  in 
place,  pack  sawdust  closely  between  the  mass  of  ice  and  the  wall ;  and  when 
all  is  stored,  cover  with  a  foot,  at  least,  of  sawdust  In  using  ice,  be  careful 
to  cover  all  crevices  with  sawdust,  as  the  ice  will  melt  rapidly  if  exposed  to 
the  air.  The  less  ventilation  and  the  more  completely  an  ice-house  is  kept 
closed,  the  better  the  ice  will  keep.  The  cold  air  which  surrounds  the  ice,  if 
undisturbed  by  currents,  has  little  effect  on  it;  but  if  there  are  openings,  cur- 
rents are  formed  and  the  warm  air  is  brought  in  to  replace  the  cold.  This  is 
especially  the  case  if  the  openings  are  low,  as  the  cold  air,  being  the  heavier, 
passes  out  below  most  readily.  For  this  reason  great  care  must  be  taken  to 
fill  in  fresh  saw-dust  between  the  walls  and  the  mass  of  ice,  as  it  settles  down 
by  its  own  weight,  'and  the  melting  of  the  ice.  There  is  no  advantage  in 
having  an  ice-house  wholly  or  partly  under  ground,  if  it  is  constructed  as  di- 
rected above.  Fine  chaff,  or  straw  cut  fine,  may  be  substituted  for  sawdust 
when  the  latter  is  difficult  to  obtain.  Of  course,  the  building  may  be  con- 
structed separately,  in  which  case  the  cost  need  not  be  more  than  twenty-five 
to  fifty-dollars. 

Cranberries — will  keep  all  winter  in  a  keg  of  water. 

Celery — keeps  well  buried  in  dry  sand. 

Onions — keep  best  when  spread  over  the  floor. 

To  KEEP  Turnips. — When  buried  deep  in  the  earth  they  will  keep  solid 
until  March  or  April. 

To  KEEP  Lemons. — Cover  with  cold  water,  changing  it  every  week.  This 
makes  them  more  juicy. 

Parsnips  and  salsify  should  be  left  in  the  ground  all  winter,  unless  the 
climate  is  very  severe,  when  they  may  be  buried  in  a  deep  pit  in  the  garden, 
and  not  opened  until  March  or  April. 

To  keep  Parsley  fresh  and  gp.skn. — Put  it  in  a  strong  boiling  hot 
nickle  of  salt  and  water,  and  keep  for  use.  Hang  up  and  dry  in  bunches, 
Dlossom  downward,  in  a  dry  attic  or  store-room,  for  use  in  soups,  stuffing,  etc. 

Whitewash  for  Cellars. — An  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  to  a  gallon  of 
whitewash  will  keep  from  cellars  the  disagreeable  odor  which  taints  milk 
and  meat.  Or,  add  copperas  to  ordinary  whitewash  until  it  is  yellow ;  the 
copperas  is  a  disinfectant,  and  drives  away  vermin. 


540  KEEPING  FEUJT8  AND  VEGETABLES. 

To  KEEP  Cellar  clean. — Remove  |i11  vegetables  as  soon  as  they  begin 
to  decay,  and  ventilate  well  so  that  the  walls  will  not  become  foul.  Use 
chloride  of  lime  as  a  disinfectant  freely,  after  taking  care  to  make  it  as  neat 
and  clean  ns  iM>ssible. 

All  kinds  of  Hkrbs. — Gather  on  a  dry  day,  just  before  or  while  in 
blossom,  tie  in  bundles,  blositoni  downward.  ^Vhen  perftcily  dry,  wrap  the 
medicinal  ones  in  paper,  and  keep  from  air.  Pick  ot!'  the  leaves' of  those  to 
be  u.sed  in  cooking,  pound,  sift  them  tine,  and  cork  up  tijjhlly  in  l)ottIe8. 

Keepinu  Cabbages. — When  the  weather  becomes  fio.>iy,'  cut  tlieni  off 
near  the  head,  and  carry  them,  with  the  leaves  on,  to  a  dry  cellar,  break  off 
superHuous  leaves,  and  pack  into  a  light  cask  or  box,  stems  iipward.  and  when 
nearly  full  cover  with  loose  leaves;  secure  the  box  with  a  lid  against  rats. 

Tot atoes — should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  When  old,  and  likely  to 
sprout,  put  them  in  a  basket  and  lower  them  into  boiling  water,  for  a  niiihite 
or  two,  let  them  dry  and  put  away  in  sacks.  This  destroys  the  germ,  and 
the  ix)tatoes  retain  their  flavor  until  late. 

The  Temperature^ — Vegetables  kivp  best  at  as  low  a  temperature  as 
possible  without  freezing.  Apples  bear  a  very  low  temperature.  Sweet  po- 
tatoes (which  keep  well  packed  in  dry  forest  leaves)  require  a  dry,  warm 
atmosphere.  S<iuashes  should  be  kept  ifl  a  dry  place,  as  cool  as  possible 
without  freezing. 

Keeping  Tease  for  winter  tse. — Shell,  throw  into  boiling  water  with  a 
little  salt,  boil  five  or  six  minutes,  drain  in  a  colander  and  afterwards  on  a 
cloth,  until  completely  dried,  and  place  in  air-tight  bottles.  Some  use  wide- 
mouthed  bottles,  not  quite  filling  them,  j)ouring  over  fried  mutton  fat  so  as 
to  cover  the  pease,  and  cork  tightly,  securing  the  cork  with  resin  or  sealing- 
wax.    When  used,  boil  until  tender,  and  season  with  butter. 

To  KEEP  Apples. — Apples  are  usually  kept  on  oi>en  shelves,  easily  ac- 
cessible, so  that  the  decaying  ones  may  easily  be  removed.  They  are  .some- 
times packed  in  layers  of  dry  sand,  care  beintr  taken  not  to  let  them  touch 
each  other,  with  good  results.  When  they  begin  to  decay,  pick  out  those 
which  are  speckled,  stew  them  up  with  cider  and  supir.  and  till  all  empty 
self-sealing  truit-cans,  and  keep  the  sauce  for  use  hue  m  the  season.  Or  pack 
in  dry  saw-dust,  or  any  grain,  as  oats,  barley,  etc.,  so  that  they  will  not  touch 
each  other;  or  if  fruit  is  tine,  wrap  each  apple  in  ]iaper  and  pack  in  boxes. 

To  keep  Grapes. — A  barrel  boon  suspended  from  the  ceiling  by  three 
cords,  from  which  graj)e  stems  are  luuig  by  means  of  wire  hooks  attached  to 
the  small  end.  sealing  the  other  with  hot  sealing-wax,  each  stem  free  from 
contact  with  its  neighbors,  is  said  to  be  the  l)est  contrivance  for  keeping 
grapes.  The  imperfect  grapes  must  l>e  removed,  and  the  room  must  be  free 
from  frost,  and  not  dry  enough  to  wither  them  or  too  moist.  The  simplest 
way  to  keep  grapes  is'  to  place  them  in  drawers  holding  about  twenty-tive 
pounds  each,  piling  the  boxes  one  over  another. 

Packing  Vegetables. — For  present  use  they  should  be  laid  aw^ay  care- 
full  v  in  a  bin  with  a  close  lid  {hung  on  hinges)  so  that  the  light  nuiy  be  ex- 
chided.  To  keep  them  for  a  longer  time,  the  best  plan  is  to  pull  them  on  a 
dry  day,  cut  off  tlie  tops  and  trim,  and  pack  them  in  clean  barrels  or  boxes, 
in  layers  with  fnie  clean  m<)s.s,  such  as  is  found  in  abundance  in  woods,  be- 
tween them.  The  moss  keeps  them  clean  and  sufficiently  moist,  preventing 
shriveling  of  the  roots  on  the  one  hand,  and  absorbing  any  excels  of  damp- 
ness on  the  otlier. 

Keeping.  Cabbages  in  the  Country. — Take  up  the  cabbages  by  the  roots, 
set  closely  together  in  rows,  up  to  the  hea<l  in  soil,  roots  down  as  they 
grew  ;  drive  in  posts  at  the  corners  of  the  bed,  and  at  intermediate  points  if 
necessary,  higher  on  one  side  than  the  otlier;  nail  strips  of  lioanls  on  the 
posts  and  lay  upon  these  old  boards,  d<x)rs,  or  if  nothing  else  is  at  hand,  bean- 
poles, and  corn  fodder,  high  enough  so  that  the  roof  wi'.]  be  clear  of  the 
cabbages,  and  allow  the  air  to  circulate ;  close  up  the  sides  with  yard  or  gar- 
den offal  of  any  kind,  and  the  cabbages  will  keep  fresh  and  green  all  winter, 
and  be  accessible  at  all  times.    Exclude  moisture  but  never  mind  the  fiost. 


SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES. 


A  child's  first  right  rs  to  be  well  born,  of  parents  sound  in  body  and  mind, 
who  can  boast  a  long  line  of  ancestors  on  both  sides;  an  aristocracy,  based 
on  the  cardinal  virtues  of  purity,  chastity,  sobriety,  and  honesty. 

If  the  thought,  the  money,  the  religious  enthusiasm,  now  expended  for 
the  regeneration  of  tlie  race,  were  wisely  directed  to  the  generation  of  our 
descendants,  to  the  conditions  and  environments  of  parents  and  children,  the 
whole  face  of  society  might  be  changed  before  we  celebrate  the  next  Cen> 
tennial  of  our  national  life. 

All  religious,  educational,  benevolent,  and  industrial  societies  combined, 
working  harmoniously  together,  can  not  do  as  much  in  a  life-time  of  effort, 
toward  the  elevation  of  mankind,  as  can  parents  in  the  nine  months  of  pre* 
natal  life.  Locke  took  the  ground  that  the  mind  of  every  child  born  into 
the  world  is  like  a  piece  of  blank  paper,  that  you  may  write  thereon  what- 
ever you  will ;  but  science  proves  that  such  idealists  as  Descartes  were  nearer 
right  when  they  declared  that  each  soul  comes  freighted  with  its  own  ideas, 
its  individual  proclivities;  that  the  pre*natal  influences  do  more  in  the  form- 
ation of  character  than  all  tlie  education  that  come  after. 

Let  the  young  man,  indulging  in  all  manner  of  excesses,  remember  that 
in  considering  the  effect  of  dissipation,  wine,  and  tobacco,  on  himself  and  his 
own  happiness  or  misery,  he  does  not  begin  to  measure  the  evil  of  his  life 
As  the  Higii  Priest  at  the  family  altar,  his  deeds  of  darkness  will  entail 
untold  suffering  on  generation  after  generation.  Let  the  young  woman  with 
wasp-like  waist,  who  lives  on  candies,  salads,  hot  brea<l,  pastry,  und  pickles^ 
whose  listless  brain  and  idle  hands  seek  no  profitable  occupation,  whose  life 
is  given  to  folly,  remember  that  to  her  ignorance  and  folly  may  yet  be  traced 
the  downfall  of  a  nation. 

One  of  the  most  difficult  lessons  to  impress  on  any  mind  is  the  power  and 
extent  of  individual  influence;  and  parents  above  all  others,  resist  the  belief 
that  their  children  are  exactly  what  they  make  them ;  no  more,  no  less;  like 
producing  like.  If  there  is  a  class  of  educators  who  need  special  prepara- 
tion for  their  high  and  holy  calling,  it  is  those  who  assume  the  responsiiiility 
of  parents.  Shall  we  give  less  thought  to  the  creation  of  an  immortal  being 
than  the  artist  devotes  to  his  statue  or  landscape^  We  wander  through  the 
art  galleries  in  the  old  world,  and  linger  before  the  works  of  the  great  mas- 
ters, transfixed  with  the  grace  and  beauty,  the  glory  and  grandeur,  of  the 
ideals  that  surrriund  us;  and,  with  equal  preparation,  greater  than  these  are 
possible  in  living,  breathing  humanity.  The  same  thought  and  devotion  in 
real  life  would  soon  give  us  a  generation  of  saints,  scholars,  scientists,  and 

35  (Ml) 


542  SOMETHING  ABOUT  B.LBIES 

statesmen,  of  glorified  humanity;  such  as  the  world  has  not  yet  seen.  To 
this  hour,  we  have  left  the  greatest  event  of  life  to  chance,  and  the  result  is 
the  blind,  the  deaf  and  dumb,  the  idiot,  the  lunatic,  the  epileptic,  the  crim- 
inal, the  drunkard,  the  glutton — thousands  of  human  beings,  in  our  young 
republic,  that  never  should  have  been  born ;  a  tax  on  society,  a  disgrace  to 
their  parents,  and  a  curse  to  themselves. 

Well,  born — a  child's  next  right  is  to  intelligent  care.  If  we  buy  a  rare 
plant,  we  ask  the  florist  innumerable  questions  as  to  its  proper  training;  but 
the  advent  of  an  immortal  being  seems  to  suggest  no  new  thought,  no 
.  iixious  investigation  into  the  science  of  human  life.  Here  we  trust  every 
iiiing  to  an  ignorant  nurse,  or  a  neighbor  who  knows  perchance  less  than  we 
do  ourselves. 

Ignorance  bandages  the  new-born  child,  as  tight  as  a  drum,  from  arm* 
pits  to  hips,  compressing  every  vital  organ.  There  is  a  tradition  that  all 
infants  are  subject  to  colic  for  the  first  three  months  of  their  existence ;  at 
the  end  of  which  time  the  bandage  is  removed,  and  the  colic  ceases.  Reason 
suggests  that  the  bandage  may  be  the  cause  of  the  colic,  and  queries  as  to 
the  origin  of  the  custom,  and  its  use.  She  is  told,  with  all  seriousness,  '*  tiiat 
the  bones  of  a  new-bom  child  are  like  cartilage,  that,  unless  they  are  pinned 
up  snugly,  they  are  in  danger  of  falling  to  pieces."  Reason  replies:  *'  If  In- 
finite Wisdom  has  made  kittens  and  puppies  so  that  their  component  parts 
remain  together,  it  is  marvelous  that  He  should  have  left  the  human  being 
wholly  at  the  mercy  of  a  bandage ; "  and  proposes,  with  her  first-born,  to  dis- 
pense with  swaddling  bandages,  leaving  only  a  slight  compress  on  the  navel, 
for  a  few  days,  until  [)erfectly  healed. 

Ignorance,  believing  that  every  child  comes  into  the  world  in  a  diseased 
and  starving  condition,  begins  at  once  the  preparation  of  a  variety  of  nos- 
trums, chemical  and  culinary,  which  she  persistently  administers  to  the 
struggling  victim.  Reason,  knowing  that  after  the  fatigue  of  a  long  and 
perilous  march,  what  the  young  soldier  most  needs  is  absolute  rest  in  some 
warm  and  cozy  tent,  shelters  him  under  her  wing,  and  fights  off  all  intruders, 
sure  that  when  he  needs  his  rations  the  world  will  hear  from  him.  His  first 
hath  should  be  preceded  by  a  generous  application  of  pure,  sweet  olive-oil, 
from  head  to  foot,  in  every  little  corner  and  crevice  of  his  outer  man ;  and 
then  he  should  be  immersed  in  warm  soap-suds,  so  nearly  the  temperature 
of  the  body  as  to  cause  no  shock.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that  neither 
oiV  nor  soap  touch  the  eyes.  The  room  should  be  very  warm,  all  drafts  ex- 
cluded ;  and  on  emerging  from  the  tub,  a  hot  soft-fiannel  blanket  should  be 
closely  wrapped  around  him,  in  which  he  may  rest  awhile  before  dressing. 
The  softest  garments,  simply  made,  and  so  cut  as  to  fasten  round  the  throat 
and  rest  on  the  shoulders,  should  constitute  his  wardrobe ;  eschew  all  bands, 
pins,  ligatures,  ruffles,  embroidery,  caps,  socks,  etc. 

Let  the  child's  first  efforts  at  foraging  for  an  existence  be  at  his  mother's 
breast;  there  he  will  find  the  medicine  he  needs,  and  just  what  she  needs, 
too,  to  dispose  of. 

The  child's  mouth  and  the  mother's  nipples  should  be  carefully  washed 


SOMETHING  ABOUT  BASTES.  543 

before  nursing;  thus,  much  suffering,  for  both  mother  and  child,  will  be 
prevented. 

"Give  the  baby  water  six  times  a  day/'  was  one  of  the  most  important 
messages  ever  sent  over  the  telegraph  wires  to  a  young  mother. 

Ignorance  bathes  lier  baby  on  a  full  stomach,  because  hhe  finds  it  will  go 
through  the  ordeal  of  dressing  more  quietly ;  Reason  bathes  hers  two  hours 
after  feeding,  knowing  that  the  vital  forces  needed  for  digestion  should  not 
be  drawn  to  the  surface.  Being  constructed  on  the  same  general  plan  with 
its  parents,  the  same  principle  that  makes  it  dangerous  for  u  man  to  go 
swimming  immediately  after  eating,  makes  it  equally  so  to  put  a  baby  in  its 
tub  after  nursing. 

Though  Ignorance  eats  her  own  meals  regularly  and  at  stated  times,  she 
feeds  her  baby  at  all  times  and  seasons.  If  the  child  has  colic  from  over- 
eating, or  the  improper  diet  of  its  mother,  she  trys  to  ally  its  suffering  with 
additional  feeding  and  vigorous  trotting;  not  succeeding,  she  ends  the  drama 
with  a  spoonful  of  Mrs.  Winslow's  soothing  syrup;  having  drugged  the  senti- 
nel and  silenced  his  guns,  she  imagines  the  citadel  safe.  Reason  feeds  her 
baby  regularly,  by  the  clock,  once  in  two  or  three  hours,  and  gives  the 
stomach  some  chance  for  rest  She  prevents  colic  by  regulating  her  own 
diet  and  habits  of  life,  knowing  that  improper  articles  of  food,  and  ill-nature 
or  outbursts  of  passion  in  the  mother,  have  cost  many  a  baby  its  life. 

Ignorance,  having  noticed  that  her  baby  sleeps  longer  with  its  head  cov- 
ered, uniformly  excludes  the  air.  Breathing  the  same  air  over  a  dozen 
times,  it  becomes  stupefied  with  the  carbonic-acid  gas,  is  thrown  into  a  pro- 
fuse perspiration,  and  is  sure  to  catch  cold  on  emerging  from  the  fetid  atmos- 
phere. Reason  puts  her  child  to  sleep,  with  head  uncovered,  in  a  spacious 
chamber,  bright  with  sunlight  and  fresh  air;  where,  after  a  long  nap,  she 
will  often  find  him  (as  soon  as  he  is  old  enough  to  notice  objects)  looking  at 
the  shadows  on  the  wall,  or  studying  the  anatomical  wonders  of  his  own 
hands  and  feet,  the  very  picture  of  content. 

Regular  feeding,  freedom  in  dress,  plenty  of  sleep,  water,  sunlight,  and 
pure  air,  will  secure  to  babies  that  health  and  happiness  that  in  nature 
should  be  their  inheritance. 

"Seeing  that  the  atmosphere  is  forty  miles  deep,  all  round  the  globe," 
says  Horace  Mann,  "it  is  a  useless  piece  of  economy  to  breathe  it  more  than 
once.  If  we  were  obliged  to  trundle  it  in  the  wheel-barrows,  in  order  to  fill 
our  homes,  churches,  school -houses,  railroad-cars,  and  steamboats,  there 
might  be  s©me  excuse  for  our  seeming  parsimony.  But  as  it  is  we  are  pnxli- 
gals  of  health,  of  wliich  wo  have  so  little;  and  nij^jranls  of  air,  of  which  wo 
have  so  much." — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cady  iUiuiton^  New  York, 


Great  care  should  be  given  that  children  are  not  fed  with  milk  that  has 
been  turned  by  a  thunder-storm.  The  chemical  change  is  rapid,  and  extra 
caution  is  necessary. 

GiNQSk-BREAD  made  from  oatmeal  instead  of  flour  is  a  good  aperient  for 
children. 


544  SOMETHISG  ABOUT  BABIES, 

Parents  should  teach  their  children  to  gargle  their  throats,  for  it  may 
be  the  saving  of  their  lives.  It  is  easier  to  teach  them  this  difficvilt  and 
awkward  feat  in  health  than  when  prostrated  by  disease. 

To  PREVENT  A  CHILD  COUGHING  AT  NIGHT,  boil  the  Strength  out  of  ten  cents 
worth  of  "seneca  snake-root"  in  one  quart  of  soft  water;  strain  through  a 
cloth,  boil  down  to  a  pint,  add  one  cui>  powdered  sugar  made  into  a  thick 
molasses.     Give  one  tea-spoonful  on  going  to  bed. 

Children  arf  often  troubled  with  ulcers  in  the  ears  after  scarlet  fever 
and  other  childreif  s  diseases.  Roast  onions  in  ashes  until  done,  wrap  in  a 
strong  cloth,  and  squeeze  out  juice.  To  three  parts  juice,  add  one  part 
laudanum  and  one  part  sweet-oil,  and  bottle  for  use.  Wash  ear  out  with 
warm  water,  shake  bottle  well,  and  drop  a  few  drops  into  the  ear. 

For  sore  mouth  in  NuiisiNo  babies,  take  a  tea-spoon  each  of  pulverized 
ulum  and  borax,  half  a  sult-i«poon  of  pulvl>rized  nut-gfiUs,  a  table-spoon  of 
honey;  mix,  and  pour  on  it  half  a  tea-cup  boiling  water;  let  settle,  and 
with  a  clean  linen  rag  wash  the  mouth  four  or  five  times  a  day,  using  a 
fresh  piece  of  linen  every  day  ;  or  simple  borax  water  is  equally  good.  Half 
an  even  tea-spoon  powdered  borax  in  two  table-spoons  soft  water  is  strong 
enough. 

A  LUMP  OP  SUGAR,  Saturated  with  vinegar,  will  stop  hiccough  when  drink- 
ing water  will  not.  For  babies,  a  few  grains  of  sugar  will  often  snlfice. 
Care  must  be  taken  in  giving  sugar  to  nursing  babies,  as  it  is  constipating! 
Dio  Lewis  says  feather  pillows  are  death  to  children.  Make  them  oi  straw 
or  hair,  and  not  too  large. 

To  cure  the  EARACHE,  take  a  bit  of  cotton  batting,  put  ujwn  it  a  pinch 
of  black  pepper,  gather  it  up  and  tie  it,  dip  it  in  sweet-oil,  and  insert  it 
into  the  ear.    Put  a  flannel  nandagc  over  tne  head  to  keep  it  warm. 

Probably  nine  children  out  op  ten  who  die  of  croup  might  be  saved  by 
the  timely  application  of  roast  onions,  mashed,  laid  upon  a  folded  napkin, 
and  goose-oil,  sweet-oil,  or  even  lard,  poured  on  ana  applied  as  warm  as 
can  be  borne  comfortably  to  the  throat  and  upper  part  of  the  chest,  and 
to  the  feet  and  hands,  or  the  onions  may  be  sliced,  boiled  soft  in  wate^ 
until  almost  dry,  grease  added,  and  cooked  in  the  grease  until  browned. 

Let  nature  wake  the  children  ;  she  will  not  do  it  prematurely..  Take 
care  that  they  go  to  bed  at  an  early  hour — let  it  be  earlier  and  earlier,  until 
it  is  found  that  they  wake  up  themselves  in  full  time  to  dress  for  breakfast! 

Just  bepore  each  meal  let  a  child  have  some  ripe  fruit  or  some  fruit 
eauce.  Apples  and  berries  are  wholesome.  Oranges  should  never  be  given 
to  children  unless  the  skin  and  the  thick  white  part  underneath  the  skin 
and  between  the  quarters  is  all  carefully  removea. 

While  the  baby  is  down  for  a  creep,  draw  little  stocking  legs  over  his 
arms,  and  secure  them  by  a  safetv-pin. 

See  that  a  child's  food  is  well  cooked.  Never  give  a  child  new  bread. 
Always  insist  that  a  child  tlioroughly  masticate  his  food.  Avoid  too  nour- 
ishing a  diet  for  a  child  of  a  violent,  fretful  temper.  Give  a  nourishing 
diet  to  a  pale,  white-looking,  delicate  child.  Both  under-feeding  and  over- 
feeking  are  apt  to  produce  scrofula  or  consumption.  Carefully  study  a 
child's  constitution,  digestive  powers,  teeth,  strength,  and  endeavor  to  pro- 
portion to  these  the  kind  ana  the  quantitv  of  its  food.  Sweetmeats  and 
confectionery  should  only  be  given  to  children  very  sparingly,  if  at  all. 
Never  pamper  or  reward  a  child  with  them.  A  child  should  never  be  al- 
lowed to  go  to  sleep  with  damp,  cold  feet.  Neglect  of  this  has  often  re- 
sulted in  dangerous  attacks  of  croup,  diphtheria,  or  a  fatal  sore  throat 
Always  on  entering  the  house  in  rainy,  muddy,  or  thawy  weather,  the 
child  should  remove  its  shoes,  and  the  mother  should  herself  ascertain 
whether  the  st/>ckings  are  the  least  damp.  If  they  are  they  should  be  taken 
off,  the  feet  held  before  the  fire,  and  rubbed  with  the  hands  until  perfectly 
dry,  and  dry  stockings  and  shoes  put  on. 

'Dr.  Osgood  recommends  as  a  night  suit  for  children  a  single  garment^ 


SOMETHISQ  ABOUT  BABIES,  545 

ending  in  drawers  and  stockings.  Over  this,  in  cold  weather,  may  be  worn 
a  flannel  sack.  At  severe  seasons,  instead  of  putting  an  extra  coverlet  on 
the  bed,  he  advisee  the  use  of  a  large  bag,  made  or  a  light  blanket,  in- 
to which  the  child  may  be  securely  placed,  and  closely  buttoned  around 
the  neck.  Light  coverings  generally  are  preferable  to  heavy  ones,  if  the 
night-clothing  and  the  room  are  sufficiently  warm,  as  they  do  not  induce 
perspiration  nor  check  exhalations. 

Eating  snow,  except  in  very  limited  quantities,  is  very  injurious,  produc- 
ing catarrh,  congestion  and  many  other  troubles. 

Jumping  the  rope  is  an  injurious  and  dangerous  amusement,  often  re- 
sulting in  disease  of  the  spine  and  brain. 

For  worms,  give  rue  tea;  for  colic,  catnip  tea. 

Never  let  the  little  children  go  out  of  doors  in  winter  without  being 
warmly  clpd.  They  lose  heat  rapidly,  and  easily  contract  throat  and  lung 
affections.  Every  child  should  have  full  suits  of  underclothing;  and  espe- 
cially let  the  legs  and  ankles  be  well '  protected  with  thick  stockings  and 
lemngs. 

Bathe  children  in  the  forenoon  when  possible,  or,  if  not  too  tired,  an 
hour  before  the  evening  meal ;  never  for  at  teast  an  nonr  after  eaiina.  When 
possible  bathe  before  an  open  fire  or  in  a  warm  room  near,  and  rub  dry 
oefore  an  open  fire.  It  is  injurious  to  bathe  cliildren  on  rising  before  break- 
fast, especially  in  cold  weather.  Washing  the  face,  neck,  and  hands,  and 
dressing,  is  enough  before  refreshing  the  body  by  eating. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  that  the  navel  of  infants  takes  its  proper  place. 
If  not  attended  to  it  is  likely  to  puff  out  and  produce  a  breach.  It  it  shows 
any  signs  of  protruding,  round  a  piece  of  cork  into  a  ball  as  large  as  a 
large  marble,  cover  with  linen,  and  lay  over  the  navel,  fastening  it  to  ita 
place  by  six  or  ei^ht  strips  of  adhesive  plaster.  Let  it  remain  for  a  month 
or  six  weeks,  as  it  will  cause  no  inconvenience. 

If  a  scurf  or  milk-crust  appears  on  the  head,  do  not  apply  water,  but 
brush  often  gently  with  a  suft  baby's  brush. 

For  constipation,  bran  water  is  an  excellent  remedy.  Boil  two  table- 
spoons bran  in  a  pint  of  water  for  two  hours,  strain  and  use  as  food.  It 
must  be  made  fresh  every  day,  and  the  fresher  the  better. 

No  child  should  go  to  bed  hungry,  but  food  taken  near  the  hours  of 
sleeping  should  be  of  the  simplest  nature, — a  cracker,  a  bit  of  bread,  or  a 
glass  of  milk. 

A  BABY  should  SLEEP  ON  ITS  SIDE.  When  lying  on  its  back  the  food 
sometimes  rises  in  its  throat  and  chokes  it 

Great  care  should  be  taken  to  shade  a  baby's  eyes  from  the  light  If 
a  strong  light  shines  directly  in  its  face,  it  often  produces  ophthalmia,  an 
intianiination  of  the  eyelid.^,  which  is  troublesome  and  dangerous.  A  few 
drops  of  breast-milk,  applied  to  the  eye  and  worked  under  the  lid,  is  very 
healing  to  sore  lids. 

Some  babies'  skink  will  not  bear  flannel.  In  this  case  a  linen  shirt 
should  be  put  on  first,  and  flannel  over  it. 

When  chafed,  squeeze  cold  water  over  the  parts  chafed.  Dry  lightly 
without  rubbing,  and  a]>ply  vaseline  or  cold  cream. 

In  cleansing  the  ear,  penetrate  no  deeper  than  you  can  clearly  see. 
Never  scratch  or  inflame  the  entrance  to  the  ear.  The  ear-wax  is  not  dirt, 
and  should  not  be  removed,  at  lea.st  only  that  portion  wliich  is  plainly  visi- 
ble should  be  di.sturbed.  Pins  and  scrapers  inserted  in  the  ear  are  injurious. 
The  wax  will  find  its  way  out  when  too  much  is  accumulated.  Scraping 
produces  irritation,  discomfort,  and  calls  for  a  repetition,  which,  after  a 
time,  produces  disease.  Sweet-oil,  glycerine,  etc.,  are  apt  to  clog  the  ear 
and  produce  inflammation.  Syringing  the  ear  with  tepid  water  relieves 
itching.  If  cold  air  gives  pain  a  little  wool,  placed  in  the  ear  while  out  of 
doors,  will  protect 


546  SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES. 

Always  hold  a  baby  with  feet  next  the  fire,  when  sitting  in  a  room  with  a 
fire  in  it.  The  old  adage,  '*  Keep  the  feet  warm  and  head  cool,"  means  a 
good  deal. 

If  the  children  who  attend  school  are  puny  and  do  not  seem  to  thrive, 
take  them  away  from  school.  Give  the  child  a  robust  body,  whether  he  is 
at  the  head  or  tail  of  hi.s  cla«*. 

Don't  give  the  babv  cordials,  soothing  syrups,  and  sleeping-drops.  Touch 
lightly  uaregoric.     All  such  things  injure  Ihe  constitution  of  the  child. 

The  New  York  Sun  say.w  :  "  The  pain  of  teething  may  be  almost  done  away, 
and  the  health  of  the  child  benefited,  by  giving  it  line  splinters  of  ice, 
picked  off  with  a  pin,  to  melt  in  its  moutli.  The  fragment  is  so  small  that 
It  is  but  a  drop  of  warm  water  before  it  can  be  swallowed,  and  the  child 
lias  all  the  coolness  for  its  feverish  gums  without  the  slightest  injury. 
The  avidity  with  which  the  little  things  taste  the  cooling  morsel,  the  in- 
stant q^uiet  which  succeeds  hours  of  fretfulness,  and  the  sleep  which  follows 
the  relief,  are  the  best  witnesses  to  this  magic  remedy.  Ice  may  be  fed  to 
three  months'  child  this  way,  each  splinter  being  no  longer  than  a  com- 
mon pin,  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  the  result  being  that  it  has  swallowed  in 
that  time  a  teaspoonful  of  warm  water,  which  so  far  from  being  a  barm, 
is  good  for  it,  and  the  process  may  be  repeated  hourly  as  often  as  the  fret- 
ting fits  from  teething  oegin  " 

It  is  not  necessary  to  w-hoily  exclude  the  light  from  the  room  when  the 
bal)e  is  born.  The  admission  of  sunlight  should  be  regulated :  but  a  soft 
and  pleasant  li^ht  is  a  benefit  to  both  mother  and  child.  The  oabv  should 
not  be  carried  into  a  glowing  sunshine,  but  should  become  gradually  accus- 
tomed to  the  light. 

For  restlessness  or  colic  in  children,  give  a  warm  bath  at  bed-time,  dry 
quickly  with  soft  towels,  and  rub  well  with  the  hand ;  dress  loosely,  wrap 
in  flannel  blanket,  warm  and  lay  away  to  sleep. 

For  colic,  give  three  or  four  swallows  of  warm  water;  place  one  hand  on 
8tomacli  and  one  on  back,  and  give  a  lively  trotting.  This  is  better  than  a 
barrel  of  soothing  syrup.  If  one  **  trip  to  Boston*'  on  tlie  knee  will  not 
do,  try  two,  or  three  even,  with  a  drink  of  warm  water  before  starting.  For 
Bore  mouth  or  constipation,  give  three  or  four  good  swallows  of  cold  water 
the  first  thing  in  the  morning.    This  is  both  a  preventive  and  a  cure. 

OxE  of  the  best  remedies  for  chafing  is  cocoa  outter,  which  may  be  had 
in  cakes,  at  any  drug  store.  Warm  slightly,  if  necessary,  and  apply  to  the 
chafed  parts.  Cocoa  butter  is  also  excellent  for  greasing  in  scarlet  fever. 
Among  the  old-fashioned  and  good  remedies  for  the  same  purpose  is  t^e 
fjitty  inside  of  the  rind  of  a  piece  of  smoked  ham. 

For  colds,  hoarseness,  or  indications  of  croup,  slice  raw  onions,  sprinkle 
with  granulated  sugar,  let  stand  until  the  juice  is  extracted  (to  hasten  the 
flow  of  the  juice,  place  in  heater  for  a  few  moments),  pour  off  juice,  and 
give  a  teaspoonful  every  hour,  or  oftener  if  the  case  is  severe. 

Gre\sin({  the  navel,  bowels,  and  up  and  down  spine,  at  night  before  going 
to  bed,  promotes  regular  action  of  the  bowels,  and  cures  constipation. 

If  injections  are  necessary  for  babies,  warm  water  with  a  very  little  pure 
snip  dissolved  in  it  is  better  than  inserting  a  piece  of  hard  soap,  as  is 
oft'Mi  done.  Small  syringes  with  flexible  tubes,  are  now  made,  and  are  much 
safer  than  the  old  form  of  syringe. 

Sweet  flag,  which  may  be  obtained  in  a  dried  state  at  any  drug  store,  is 
an  excellent  remedy  for  colic  in  children.  Make  a  mild  lea  of  it,  sweeten, 
and  give  a  teas])oonful  whenever  there  are  signs  of  trouble  coming  on. 

For  teething  children,  an  ivory  ring,  a  silver  dollar,  or  some  similar 
article  should  be  provided  for  them  to  bite  on.  Give  plenty  of  pure  water 
to  drink.  Or  dip  the  end  of  the  finger  in  cold  water  and  rub  the  inflamed 
gums. 

In  washing  children,  do  not  let  the  water  run  into  the  ears.  Children 
should    never  be  washed  in  a  careless,  slipsho<l   manner.     The   excretions 


SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES,  547 

and  the  exhalations  of  the  skin  are  often  acrid  enough  to  produce  great 
irritation  and  suffering,  and  careful  washing,  with  liberal  enough  use  of 
water  to  insure  cleanhness,  and  a  rapid  and  thorough  drying,  removing 
every  particle  of  moisture  in  all  the  crevices  of  the  skin,  and  that  with  a 

fentle  hand.  Use  as  litcie  soup  us  possible,  and  that  the  finest  kind,  and 
e  sure  to  wash  it  off  thoroughly  with  pure  soft  water.  After  the  surface  is 
well  dried,  any  harmless  powder,  such  as  corn  starcli,  may  be  used  to  prevent 
chafing. 

In  the  case  of  a  sick  child,  if  the  skin  is  tender  when  there  is  pressure^ 
wash  with  diluted  camphor  water.  Sick  children  should  not  lie  long  in  one 
position,  and  the  bed  should  be  as  smooth  as  possible.  If  there  is  any  dis- 
ease in  the  head,  a  pillow  of  finely  shredded  corn-husks  should  take  the 
place  of  a  feather  pillow.  Cool,  salt-water  baths  remove  the  prickly  heat 
that  is  so  annoying  in  summer. 

The  warm  bath,  the  water  being  at  about  the  same  heat  as  the  surface 
of  the  body,  is  best  for  young  children.  As  they  grow  older  the  bath  may 
be  made  cooler. 

Always  be  able  to  have  a  fire  in  at  least  one  room  in  the  house,  even 
in  the  warmest  setLSon,  if  there  are  children  in  the  family.  In  the  Northern 
States  there  is  rarely  a  month  in  the  vear  during  which  there  is  not  an 
occasional  day  or  evening  when  fire  woul^  be  beneficial. 

Children  should  always  play  on  the  sunnj''  side  of  the  yard. or  street  in 
cold  weather.  The  sun-warmed  air  is  what  they  need.  Children  less  than 
four  years  old  ought  not  to  play  out  of  doors  when  the  thermometer  ranges 
lower  than  25°  above  zero. 

To  ventilate  apartments  without  causing  a  draft,  raise  the  lower  sash  four 
to  six  inches,  and  place  vmder  it  a  board  perfectly  fitted  to  the  casing,  so  as 
to  shut  out  all  air.  The  cold,  outside  air  then  passes  upward  between  the 
sash,  to  the  u]>per  part  of  the  room,  and  is  diffused  without  causing  a  draft. 
The  night  air  is  not  objectionable,  except  in  malarious  regions.  Indeed, 
in  cities,  tlie  night  air  is  i)urer  than  what  is  abroad  by  day.  In  the  hot 
season,  children  should  be  kept  out  of  the  sun  after  ten  o'clock,  and  may 
sit  up  lat€r  than  usual  at  night  to  enjoy  the  cool  evenings.  Excessive  heat 
is  as  fatal  as  excessive  cold.  Keep  the  baby  cool  by  baths,  but  never  put  it 
to  sleep  in  a  room  from  which  the  sunshine  is  constantly  kept.  No  room 
can  be  wholesome  where  sunshine  is  never  admitted. 

AUNT  Martha's  prescriptions. 

Give  a  babe,  one  to  four  weeks  old,  two  teanspoons  saffron  tea  (made  by 
simmering  a  teaspoon  dry  saffron  in  half  a  teacup  water),  once  every  other 
day. 

If  troubled  with  colic,  give  catnip  tea  (simmering  half  a  tea  cup  of  cat- 
nip in  boiling  water  to  cover,  strain  and  sweeten)  every  night  before  the 
time  for  colic  to  come  on.  Catnip  should  always  be  gatliered  when  in 
bloom,  and  before  dog-days:  then  dry  in  the  shade.  When  dried,  place  in 
a  jiaper  sack,  and  hang  in  a  dry.  cool  place. 

One  tea-spoon  of  pure  castor  oil  given  to  a  new-born  babe  is  excellent  to 
carry  off  the  phiegm  that  usually  troubles  it. 

Babes  from  one  to  six  month's  old  can  safely  be  given  two  teaspoons  of 
castor  oil  at  a  time,  when  suffering  with  a  cold.  Mixing  a  teaspoon  oi  Orleans 
molasses  with  it  will  prevent  jyriping. 

A  CHILD  ten  inoTiths  old,  if  choked  with  a  bad  cold,  will  be  speedily  re- 
lieved by  taking  three  teaspoons  of  pure  castor  oil.  Cliildren  are  differently 
affected  by  tlie  oil,  so  it  is  safe  to  begin  with  one  teaspoon  of  castor  oil,  and 
increase  if  needed. 

In  scarlet  fever,  the  first  symptoms  being  like  a  severe  cold,  treat  it  in 
the  same  way;  keep  the  bowels  open  with  castor  oil,  grease  the  throat,  breast, 
and  back  with  pig's-feet  oil,  goose  grease,  lard,  or  smoked  ham  rinds,  or  the 
fryings  of  salt  pork  or  bacon.     Grease  very  thoroughly.     If  the  throat  is 


548  SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES. 

sore,  chop  fat  salt  pork  and  raw  onions  tofrether,  like  hash,  put  them  in  a 
sack,  warm  a  little,  and*  tie  round  the  throat  Change  this  {poultice  when 
needed,  but  keep  it  on  until  the  throat  is  entirely  well.  This  poultice  is 
much  Ijetter  than  those  made  of  hot  water,  as  there  is  no  danger  of  taking  cold 
in  changing  it. 

To  prevent  catching  conta^ous  diseases,  put  a  small  lump  each  of  camphor 
gum,  urimstone,  and  assafetida  in  a  little  sack,  and  tie  around  the  body  with 
a  tape. 

Ax  excellent  cough  remedy  is  made  as  follows:  Take  enough  of  horehound 
to  111]  u  three  pint  cup,  iM)ur  soft  water  over  it  until  full,  let  it  simmer  until 
all  tlie  strength  is  extracted  (keep  the  tin  full),  then  strain ;  to  three  pints 
of  this  tea  add  a  pint  of  pure  whisky  and  enough  of  loaf  sugar  to  make  a 
.yrup ;  dose,  tablespoon  half  hour  before  eating,  and  the  last  thing  before 
n*tirinp:.     This  renu'dy  and  dose  is  for  an  adult. 

A  (iooD  remedy  forcohc  is  tincture  of  assafetida;  take  a  lump  the  size  of 
a  hulled  walnut,  cover  it  with  an  ounce  of  pure  whisky  (in  fourteen  days  it 
is  tincture,  but  in  a  few  days  it  will  be  strong  enough  to  use).  Begin  with 
one  drop  in  sweetened  water,  if  the  child  is  very  young,  and  increase  as  re- 

?uired.  Give  this  U)  the  child  an  hour  before  the  time  for  the  colic  to  begin, 
f  a  child  is  given  this,  as  it  grows  older,  each  morning  a  few  drops,  it  will 
not  be  troubled  witii  worms. 

In  croup,  redden  tbo  throat  and  chest  by  rubbing  with  a  mixture  of  one- 
half  tablesptK)n  each  of  camphor  and  turjKjntine  and  one  tablespoon  each 
of  coal  oil  and  sweet  oil.  Wet  a  warm  flannel  with  this,  and  apply  to  the 
throat  and  neck  for  a  few  minutes,  watching  closely  so  as  to  remove  it  when 
the  skin  is  well  reddened.  No  time  can  be  given,  as  some  skins  are  more 
sensitive  than  others.    This  outward  irritation  tends  to  prevent  croup. 

For  worms  in  children  (these  do  not  appear  until  after  the  child  begins  to 
eat  other  food  than  its  mother's  milk),  give  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
santonin  mixed  with  a  little  sugar  and  a  drop  or  two  of  w^ater,  once  every 
three  hours ;  continue  for  six  doses.  Follow  with  a  dose  of  castor  oil  to 
which  has  been  added  five  drops  of  spirit  of  turpentine.  The  above  is  a 
dose  for  a  child  of  one  year  old;  for  older  children,  Increase  the  dose  some- 
what Pumpkin-seed  tea  is  also  a  grmd  remedy  for  worms,  and  entirely 
harmless.     All  remedies  for  worms  must  be  taken  on  an  empty  stomach. 

LroKiLY  for  the  rising  generation,  fashion  recognizes  the  necessity  for  pro- 
tection of  the  neck  and  arms  of  infants,  and  while  the  infant  wears  long 
slips  the  feet  are  fairly  well  p<x>tected  in  the  summer,  but  if  thev  seem  in 
the  least  cold  to  the  hand,  soft  woolen  socks  should  be  put  on.  When  short 
clothes  are  ]»ut  on,  longer  socks  should  take  the  place  of  the  short  ones.  No 
pains  should  be  spared  to  keep  the  legs  and  feet  warm  in  both  summer 
and  winter.  *'  Keep  the  feet  warm  and  head  cool,"  is  an  old  but  wise  maxim. 
If  the  oj)posite  condition  exists,  look  out  for  serious  illness.  In  winter  let 
the  baby  wear  warmly  lined  shoes,  chosen  for  comfort  and  not  for  show. 
Tlic  care  of  the  extremities  is  very  important,  and  the  baby  should  never 
be  allowed  to  go  with  cohl  hands.  The  baby  creeping  alx)ut  and  the  child- 
ren playing  on  the  tltK>r.  are  ex])r)sed  to  all  the  drafts  that  enter  through  the 
crevices  of  the  walls.  The  cold  air  immediately  seeks  the  floor,  and  a  grown 
person  has  only  to  lie  <lown  on  the  cariK't  in  the  vicinity  of  a  window  or  door 
to  be  convinced  of  the  source  of  many  a  cold  and  sore  throat  Weather- 
f^trips,  in  r(H)!iis  where  children  play  much,  are  useful;  in  their  absence, 
paste  a  strip  of  paper  across  where  the  lower  siush  tils  into  the  casing,  and 
get  ventilation  by  the  up]>er8ash.  If  doors  swing  inward,  a  heavy  rug  may 
be  placed  against  it  outside,  or  an  old  garment.  Add  to  all  these  precau- 
tions warm  clothing.  Wiien  children  are  large  enough  to  play  out  of  doors 
in  cold  weather,  good  woolen  leggings  should  be  worn.  In  rainy  weather, 
the  light  gos.samer  rubber  cloth,  winch  may  be  Ixmght  by  the  yard  and  made 
at  home,  nitdtes  excellent  protection  from  wet,  and  yet  is  not  a  burden.  If 
replaced  by  a  woolen  garment  in  dry  weather,  no  harm  will  result.    Every 


SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES. 


549 


scb'j^i-girl  should  have  a  circular  cape  of  this  material.  Let  no  desire  to 
have  your  children  in  fashion  induce  you  to  send  them  out  with  less  clothing 
for  the  feet  and  legs  than  would  be  required  to  make  a  grown  person  com- 
fortable. The  scanty  cjothing  of  the  lower  limbs  brings  on  repeated  attacks 
of  croup  and  various  diseases  of  the  throat  and  lungs.  Not  only  is  this  true, 
hut  the  low  temperature  and  imperfect  circulation  of  the  blood  prevents  the 
development  of  the  parts  exposed  and  brings  on  a  race  of  fashionable,  but 
spindle-shanked,  children.  Don't  be  deceived  by  tlie  prevailing  idea  that 
cnildren  of  the  extremely  poor,  that  are  half  cared  for,  and  of  parents  who 
habitually  neglect  them,  are  "  healthy,"  Among  this  very  class  Death  makes 
the  heaviest  harvest;  and  those  who  live  are  stunted  by  neglect,  in  spite  of 
extra  hardiness  of  constitution.  Of  course,  to  remove  the  ordinary  clothing 
and  substitute  lighter  for  a  party  or  a  heated  audience-room,  is  the  height 
of  imprudence.  At  the  close  of  such  an  occasion,  plenty  of  wraps  should  be 
provided  against  the  exposure  to  the  cold  air  when  overheated.  Young 
children  had  best  wear  nannel  underclothing  the  whole  year.  When  sud- 
den changes  take  place  to  colder  weather,  see  tliat  the  children  have  addi- 
tional protection  before  they  take  cold. 

A  warm  suit  for  the  first  short  clothes  of  the  baby  during  the  first  winter, 
is  made  up  as  follows :  A  knit  flannel  shirt,  a  loo;«e  flannel  bandage  about 
the  body,  over   the  bowels  (an  excellent  protection  against  summer  com« 

plaints,  if  continued  through  the  next 
summer),  a  skirt  of  oi)era  flannel  with 
a  muslin  waist,  with  two  rows  of  but- 
tons (four  in  each  row),  about  an  inch 
apart,  one  to  support  the  skirt  and  the 
other  for  the  diaper  drawers,  which 
are  made  of  the  same  flannel  as  the 
skirt.  The  accompanying  cuts  will  ex- 
plain clearly  the  manner  in  which  these  are  made.  This 
useful  garment,  either  in  flannel  or  muslin,  may  and  should 
be  worn  from  the  time  short  clothes  are  put  on  until  diapers 
are  left  off  or  even  longer.  The  cut  on  left  hand  of  page  gives  the  form  of 
garment,  when  taken  off.  The  one  on  the  right,  the  same  garment  when 
put  on  and  buttoned  up.  The  dress  should  be  of  the  same  material,  and 
color  as  tlie  skirt  and  drawers,  and  cut  in  Gabrielle  style,  with  long  sleeves. 
Over  this  wear  a  white  dress  of  Nainsook,  made  plain  or  elaborate,  as  may 
be  desired.  In  summer,  this  suit  of  skirt,  drawers,  and  dress,  made  in 
Silicia,  with  the  overdress  of  white,  is  a  safe  and  cromfortable  dress  for  a 
child,  and  not  easily  soiled. 

A  proper  dress  for  an  infant,  the  first  time  it  is  dressed,  is  a  bandage  of 
soft  nannel,  put  on  loosely  about  the  body,  a  knit  w(X)len  shirt,  a  pinningf- 
blanket,  maae  of  a  piece  of  soft  white  flannel,  three-fourths  of  a  vara 
square,  and  taken  up  about  one-fourth  of  a  yard  at  the  top  by  a  single  box- 
pleat,  three  inches  wide,  and  cauglit  together  on  the  wrong  side  for  about 
three  inches  from  the  toj).  On  each  side  of  the  box-pleat  make  a  small  pleat, 
to  be  let  out  as  tlie  infant  grows.  The  flannel  should  be  bound  with  silk 
binding  before  pleating,  pinned  on  with  safetv  pins  next  the  flannel  shirt,  a 
waist  with  arm-noles  but  no  sleeves,  buttoned  t>ehind  with  a  small  flat  but- 
ton, and  having  on  the  bottom  one  button  in  front,  one  on  each  side,  one  in 
<'enter  of  back,  and  one  an  inch  and  a  half  on  each  side  of  the  last-named. 
The  skirt  is  fastened  to  these  buttons.  The  three  buttons  behind  serve  this 
purpose.  Wlien  ciiild  i.s  small,  each  end  is  carried  past  the  center  button  to 
the  ones  an  inch  and  a  half  beyond  it,  but  as  the  clnld  grows  and  needs  more 
room,  the  ends  are  brought  together  at  the  centt^r  button.  The  skirt  is  made 
of  flannel,  seven-eighths  of  a  yard  long.  The  dress,  which  should  be  about 
one  yard  long,  may  be  made  of  any  white  material.  Add  to  this  a  pair  of 
soft  knit  socks,  and  the  dress  is  complete.  A  modest  wardrobe  should  com« 
prise:  two  knit  shirts,  three  pinning  blankets,  four  bandages  of  different 


550  SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES. 

sizes,  three  flannel  skirts,  three  waists,  six  muslin  slips,  six  dresses  of  differ- 
ent patterns  but  about  the  same  in  regard  to  warmth,  or  better,  of  same 
material,  checked  or  striped  goods,  and  differently  trimmed,  two  finer  dresses, 
which  may  be  made  a  little  longer  for  style,  though  the  weight  is  objection- 
able as  a  burden  to  the  child,  two  pairs  of  short  socks,  and  as  the  child 
frows  older,  two  pairs  of  Ifnit  boots,  and  two  dozen  diapers  (cotton  are  best, 
aying  more  ^absorbing  capacity  than  linenV  one  yard  long,  and  for  the  first, 
about  five-eighths  of  a  yard  wide.  Fold  the  inside  one  once,  end  to  end, 
then  again  from  comer  to  corner ;  the  outside,  fold  once  from  end  to  end, 
and  pin  one  side  with  safety  pins  to  the  flannel  band,  allowing  it  to  hang 
down  to  protect  the  legs,     wrien  short  clothes  are  put  on,  fold  the  outside 

diaper  as  directed  above,  and  use  one  of  lighter  ma- 
terial, or  an  old  thin  one,  for  the  inside.  Fold  the 
latter,  end  to  end  once,  and  then  once  more  in  the 
same  direction.  The  outside  one  is  now  in  three-cor- 
nered shape ;  lay  it  down  with  ^int  toward  you,  lay 
the  other  over  it,  as  represented  in  diagram,  and  they 
are  ready  to  put  on.  f^or  night  use,  wear  a  bandage,  a 
pinning  blanket,  and  a  flannel  ni^ht  dress,  made  with 
sleeves  long  enough  to  gather  in  with  a  gathering-string  over  the  hands. 
Of  course,  no  garment  should  be  worn  at  night  that  has  oeen  worn  during- 
the  day. 

AUNT  EVA'S  way. 

This  is  the  idea  to  start  with — that  we  are  dealing  with  liUk  people.  To- 
be  sure  they  are  fearfully  and  wonderfully  made,  but  only  in  the  same  sense 
as  their  parents.  As  many  of  these  same  parents  do  not  understand  tlie 
first  principles  of  caring  for  themselves,  we  are  obliged  to  begin  at  the  be- 
ginning, it  is  important  in  the  life  of  a  chil()  to  be^n  right.  The  treats 
ment  many  a  babe  receives  during  the  first  hours  of  its  life  causes  it  to  be 
a  puny,  su fieri ng  infant,  giving  it  a  constitution  predisposed  to  disease. 
The  first  thing  is  to  protect  the  sensitive  darling  from  exposure.  There 
must  be  absolutely  no  exposure  to  chill.  Thirf  is  easily  done  by  plenty  of 
soft,  warm  flannels — a  dozen  pieces  or  more,  some  of  which  need  be  quite 
shawls.  When  needed,  they  must  be  full  of  fire  warmth,  full  as  they  can 
hold,  no  matter  if  it  is  a  warm  August  night.  When  the  child  needs 
attention,  make  the  pliysician  take  a  large  piece  of  this  and  cover  it  in- 
stjintly.  He  can  do  his  whole  duty  with  the  child  well  covered.  Never 
use  water  for  the  first  bath,  but  sweet-oil;  I  prefer  the  oil  of  sweet  cream, 
made  by  simmering  cream  in  a  shallow  dish  on  the  stove  until  the  oil 
separates,  to  be  applied  with  a  soft  piece  of  warm  flannel.  If  care  is  used 
in  removing  the  oil,  you  will  be  surprised  to  see  how  sweet  the  little  one 
looks;  on  no  account  use  water  on  the  child  until  it  is  well  climatized, 
say  twenty-four  to  forty-eight  hours.  When  a  babe  screams  through  its 
first  toilet  operation,  it  is  either  cold  or  frightened.  Desist  at  once,  and 
fold  it  closer  in  its  warm  wrappings,  making  sure  that  nothing  soiled  or 
damp  is  touching  it.  I^et  the  little  head  be  cared  for  first,  then  one  arm, 
and  so  on,  keeping  the  rest  of  the  body  carefully  covered.  After  having 
the  oil  well  applied,  I  would  rather  my  child  would  lie  a  week  with  only 
its  flannel  wrappings  than  be  dressed  while  screaming,  but  if  you  go  right 
so  far  you  will  nave  no  trouble. 

Its  clothing  can  be  any  thing  that  is  warm  enough  and  loose  enough. 
Don't  pin  it  up  as  if  it  was  to  be  used  to  play  ball  with,  and  was  in  dan- 
ger of  getting  tumbled  to  pieces.  It  is  not  even  to  be  handled  much,  but 
laid  away  to  rest  as  long  as  it  will,  and  kept  Htill ;  don't  let  some  loving 
soul  keep  it  swaying  around.  If  it  acts  like  waking  up  or  is  uneasj*.  pass 
yoxxT  hands  carefully  under  it,  and  gently  turn  it  oh  its  other  side. 

Its  food,  first  and  only,  at  present  is  that  which  God  has  so  wisely  pro^ 


SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES.  551 

Tided;  this  is  all  that  it  needa,  even  if  it  gets  but  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  If 
it  can  not  be  satisfied  without  worrying  the  mother  too  muctif  a  little — a  very- 
little — fresh  cow's  milk  can  be  used  with  pure  sugar  and  one-third  water. 
Always  remember  this — the  milk  of  a  "farrow  cow"  will  kill  a  young  lamb 
just  as  sure  as  it  enters  its  stomach. 

I  do  not  think  it  wise  to  insist  on  regular  feeding  times  for  nursing  infants, 
or  as  long  as  milk  is  the  chief  sustenance.  There  are  many  days  when  the 
healthiest  of  children  are  fretful.  Their  gums  begin  to  swell  younger  than 
is  generally  supposed.  There  is  nothing  more  soothing  than — well,  just  let 
the  little  pet  have  its  own  way ;  it  will  prove  to  you  when  it  is  most  comfort- 
able. A  Saby  never  cries  if  it  is  comfortable ;  when«4t  ciies  it  asks  for  some- 
thing; put  yourself  in  itsplace  and  maybe  you  can  come  near  to  the  under- 
standing. Many  of  its  sufierings  are  caused  by  unwise  changes  in  its  clothing. 
You  give  it  a  slight  cold  by  your  own  thoughtlessness;  then  for  heaven's  sake 
don't  give  it  some  soothing  syrup  to  weaken  its  digestion,  and  render  it  liable 
to  be  hurt  by  all  food  except  the  simplest  My  oldest  bov  is  a  victim  to  sootli- 
ing  medicines.  He  must  be  so  careful  througli  watermelon  and  fruit  season, 
or  he  will  be  sick  all  the  time ;  but  four  others,  all  past  five  years  old,  who 
never  took  as  much  as  a  cup  of  sage-tea,  of  medicine,  can  digest  any  thing. 
Mv  remedy  for  most  of  the  ailments  of  children  is  fire  warmth. 

For  colic,  unpin  the  little  one's  clothing  so  that  the  fire  can  shine  clear  to 
its  arm-pits,  heating  your  own  hand  and  passing  it  gently  over  the  restless 
little  squirmer.  This  will  either  prevent  or  cure  almost  any  thing.  If  it 
seems  very  sick,  its  head  hot,  you  must  watch  that;  I  ^ever  knew  a  child  to 
go  into  fits  unless  its  head  was  hot  and  its  hands  and  feet  cold.  In  this  case, 
bathe  the  little  feet  in  wann  water;  and,  if  it  is  in  summer,  get  the  leaves  of 
horse-radish,  or  a  plant  of  that  nature,  roll  and  wilt  them,  and  bind  on  the 
soles  of  the  feet  and  in  the  palms  of  the  hands;  not  to  blister,  only  to  keep 
moist  and  wann.  If  you  can  not  get  the  green  leaves,  ginger  on  wet  warm 
cloths  will  do.  Then  keep  the  head  wet,  and  kee{>  ever^  one  from  the  room 
but  the  one  whom  the  child  wishes  to  take  care  of  it.  Give  water  or  milk — 
whichever  the  child  prefers ;  or,  if  not  weaned,  let  it  nurse  all  it  wishes,  no 
matter  if  it  keeps  throwing  it  up— that  is  natiire's  provision  for  nursing^ 
babiiis.  It  is  reaa^  now  to  be  soothed  to  sleep,  and  will  generally  waken  with 
a  gentle  perspiration.  When  you  think  you  must  give  some  kind  of  warm 
tea,  ^ve  pure  warm  water  that  has  been  boiled ;  it  is  the  best  hot  drink  out 
for  either  mother  or  child  in  pain. 

My  mother  was  once  taken  three  miles  on  a  cold  winter's  night  to  see  a 
young  infant  that  they  feared  was  going  into  fits.  It  screamed  and  strug- 
gled and  fought  for  breath,  while  its  young  mother,  pale  with  fear  was 
walking  the  house  crying  too.  *'  Why,  said  mother,  '*  the  child  has  only 
got  the  *  snuffles,'  bring  me  a  little  soft  grease."  She  rubbed  the  nose 
gently  until  the  child  was  partially^  relieved.  Being  cjuite  a  bad  case,  she 
advised  the  mother  to  milk  a  strain  of  breast-milk  into  the  nostril ;  she 
did  so,  the  child  sneezed  three  or  four  times  and  dropped  asleep  in  two 
minutes.  This  is  also  all  that  is  needed  for  weak  or  sore  eyes  in  an  infant 
— ^breast  milk. 

For  sore  mouth,  a  weak  solution  of  borax  ;  but  vour  child  will  not  have 
a  sore  mouth  or  any  other  disease,  if  you  follow  these  directions  and  vour 
own  good  sense ;  and  remember  that  soothing  syrups  are  the  lazy  mother's 
•cure.  It  is  so  much  easier  to  put  a  child  to  sleep  than  to  bathe  it  and 
warm  it  and  nurse  it  well. 

For  croup,  take  sweet  hog's  lard  and  tincture  of  camphor  or  camphor 
gum  and  simmer  together  a  short  time ;  gum  the  size  of  a  pea  to  a  table- 
spoon of  lard;  keep  it  in  the  house  prepared,  and  rub  on  the  throat  at 
first  symptom.  This  will  relieve  any  hard  cough  almost  instantly ;  if  it 
does  not,  mix  one  teaspoon  of  it  with  a  tablespoon  of  molasses,  and  take  in- 
wardly. If  you  are  called  to  a  child  too  bad — too  far  gone — for  theae 
simple  remedies,  put  it  in  a  warm  bath  as  quick  as  it  can  oe  prepared. 


552  SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES. 

For  whooping-cotigh,  encour^  the  child  to  eat  sour  fniits,  either  cooked 
or  raw,  or  both,  all  it  wishes.  This  keeps  the  system  cool,  the  bowels  open, 
and  the  throat  clear. 

In  weaning  your  darling,  be  sure  you  have  plenty  of  suitable  food  in 
the  house  that' baby  is  fond  of.  First  teach  baby  to'  go  to  sleep  without 
nursing ;  after  he  has  become  accustomed  to  this,  teach  him  to  oo  without 
it  during  the  dav,  and  to  go  to  sleep  at  bed-time ;  then  let  him  nurse  all 
he  wishes  through  the  rest  of  the  night,  only  being  careful  to  leave  the  bed 
before  he  awakens  in  the  morning.  Let  him  nurse  this  wav  for  several 
weeks,  that  the  change  of  living  may  not  be  too  sudden.  I  liave  weaned 
three  children  in  this  way  without  a  single  crying  spell,  and  no  one  about 
the  house  knew  about  it. 

The  family  physician  is  a  great  blessing — more  so  than  his  medicine. 
Never  fail  to  call  him  in  time,  if  the  disease  proves  stubborn ;  but  let  him 
understand  that  you  wish  advice  as  to  nursing,  and  not  his  medicine,  un- 
less it  is  very  necessary.  Most  peojjle  -think  if  a  doctor  leaves  no  drugs 
behind  his  visit  is  so  much  lost  money ;  doctors  understand  this,  and 
leave  medicine  whether  necessary  or  not.  As  your  child  conquers  one 
trifling  ailment  after  another  and  grows  in  health  and  beauty,  you  will  grad- 
ually gain  a  confidence  in  nature  that  will  be  a  great  rock  of  defense  for 
a  parent  of  a  growing  family  ;  if  you  will  obey  her  laws  she  will  never  dis- 
appoint you. 

The  regular  meals,  so  necessary  to  the  health  and  comfort  of  a  family, 
must  be  regular.  If  you  insist  on  the  children  only  eating  at  their  meals, 
don't  sit  and  sew,  or  visit,  with  hunger  gnawing  at.  their  vitals.  I  think  it 
safest  to  allow  growing  children  to  have  a  piece  between  meals,  if  they  are 
hungry  enough  to  eat  dry,  light  bread ;  no  butter  to  grease  things,  or  molastset 
or  milk  to  tempt  them  to  eat  more  than  they  need  for  necessary  sup^Kjrt, 
The  only  trouble,  I  find,  is  they  soon  get  to  be  too  fond  of  the  crusts  and  '*  pud- 
ding pieces." 

The  care  of  the  feet  is  the  great  picket  post  after  the  child  begins  to  run 
alone.  Watch,  watch  the  little  feet  that  no  damp  or  chill  is  creeping  up  to 
chill  the  vitals.  A  pair  of  warm  stockings  to  each  pair  of  restless  feet  must 
be  kept  by  the  stove  in  all  damp  or  cold  weather,  and  never  let  a  child 
stop  a  moment  its  tictive  play  until  you  know  whether  its  feet  are  warm  and 
dry.  You  had  better  change  feet-covering  four  or  five  times  a  day  during 
those  delightful,  treacheron.s  springdays,  than  towatch  a  sick-bed  and  lose  your 
darling  at  last.  This  i.««  what  neglect  of  the  feet  often  brings  the  little  onet 
to.  I  know  the  task  1  am  enjoining  on  mothers  and  nurses.  I  have  had 
twenty-three  pairs  of  stockings  hanging  around  my  cook-stove  at  once,  each 
pair  in  daily  use  for  exchanges.  But  I  do  not  know  what  it  is  to  lose  a 
child,  or  hafdlv  a  night's  rest,  and  we  have  raised  six  from  babyhood.  Never 
let  them  go  to  "bed  without  having  their  feet  all  aglow  with  warmth  to  their 
knees  from  the  bright  fire  shining  upon  them.  This  is  my  hobby;  fire- 
warmth.  It  will  cure  ear-ache,  stomacn-ache,  head-ache,  le^s-ache ;  prevent 
neuralgia,  whit^-swellings,  rheumatic  pains,  indigestion.  Yes,  Pm  a  "fire 
worshiper,"  and  you  will  l)e  after  you  have  tried  its  virtues  on  yourself  and 
children  faithfully  for  twenty  years. 

In  conclusion,  my  theory  is  incessant  watchfulness  of  first  symptoms — 
prevention  rather  than  cure.  But  let  no  untried  mother  feel  discouraged  ;  the 
care  of  a  babe  is  no  trouble  to  a  true  mother.  As  often  as  it  needs  attention, 
so  often  do  her  eyes  long  for  a  sight  of  the  sweet  dimpled  flesh,  the  dainty 
limbs;  the  loving  touch  of  the  little  hands  upon  her  face  and  neck  has  more 
than  mesmeric  power.  And  after  all  is  done  for  them,  if  they  seem  to  you 
to  be  growing  coarse  and  unlovely,  smile  upon  them  oftener,  kiss  them,  caress 
them.  Don't  let  the  pressing  duties  of  the  younger  ones  lead  you  to  ne- 
glect the  older  ones.  If  a  child  once  learns  to  do  without  mother's  caressses^ 
you  can  never  again  make  them  necessary  to  that  child. 


SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES.  553 


TEETHING. 


When  the  first  signs  of  the  teeth  appear,  the  salivary  glands  are  so  fur 
developed  that  the  secretion  of  saliva  is  large,  and  "drooling"  is  notice<l. 
This  saliva  moistens  the  gums  and  softens  them,  so  that  the  com^nj^  teotu 
make  their  way  through  with -less  difficulty.  At  this  time  an  ivory  coral 
or  hard  rubber  ring  is  useful.  There  is  a  sensation  in  the  gums  wiiich 
the  child  tries  to  relieve  by  biting.  Later,  when  the  gum  is  inllain»-i 
and  sore,  a  soft  substance  is  better  than  hard.  If  the  gum  is  nun  li 
swollen,  and  there  are  symi)tonis  of  tliirst  and  fever  and  flushed  cheeks,  tlio 
child  should  be  seen  by  a  physician.  There  may  be  something  more  seriou.-* 
than  teething. 

If  the  case  is  mild,  soothing  applications  such  as  honey  of  roses,  borax 
and  honey,  and  syrup  of  gum  araoic  will  relieve.  If  bowels  are  constipated 
an  injection  may  oe  given,  or  even  a  mild  laxative,  with  a  warm  foot-bath  at 
bed-time.  Lancing  of  the  gums  is  sometimes  necessary,  and  is  harmless  and 
not  painful  if  done  skillfully  and  at  the  proper  time.  Rubbing  the  gums 
with  a  thimble  is  very  harsh  treatment.  « 

When  a  child  falls  ill,  a  good  many  people  charge  the  trouble  to  "worms." 
The  real  cause  of  the  trouble  is  generally  indigestion,  which  causes  an  in- 
creased secretion  of  mucus,  and  this  makes  a  harbor  for  worms,  which  in 
themselves  do  !»ot  produce  irritation,  unless  they  exist  in  great  numbers. 
Bottle-fed  children  oftener  suffer  from  indigestion  than  others.  The  indi- 
cations are  pining,  pevishness,  constipation  or  diarrhea,  a  sour  breatli,  etc. 
These  may  result  from  overfeeding  or  from  unsuitable  food.  Overfeeding  is 
most  frequent.  If  the  stomach  is  not  able  to  digest  the  food  it  will  irritate 
the  bowels  and  produce  diarrhea.  The  summer  diarrhea  of  children  hegins 
with  indigestion,  whi(;h  weakens  the  system,  and  makes  it  sensitive  to  hot 
weather.  The  proi)er  color  for  passages  from  the  bowels  in  infancy  is  yel- 
low. In  cases  of  indigestion  the  color  is  greenish,  or,  if  yellow  when  passecl, 
soon  becomes  green.  In  diarrhea  they  are  offensive  ana  greenish,  or  even  a 
bright  green.  The  point  is  to  find  out  the  cause  of  tiie  trouble  and  cctrcct 
it  in  the  early  stages  of  the  disease. 

The  daily  increase  in  weight  of  a  healthy  infant  is  from  a  quarter  to 
three-quarters  of  an  ounce. 

Batliing  ought  not  to  be  neglected  for  a  single  day.  It  ought  to  be  re- 
garded as  a  sacred  maternal  duty. 

The  hair  should  be  kept  short  during  infancy  and  childhood.  No  finer 
heads  of  hair  are  ever  seen  than  those  on  girls  whose  hair  has  been  crop})cd 
close,  boy-fashion,  until  ten  years  old. 

No  more  dangerous  humbug  was  ever  taught  than  that  malt  liquors  o- 
wine  was  necessary  or  healthful  for  a  nursing  woman. 

Sugar  should  always  be  an  addition  to  less  palatable  food,  and  never 
given  alone. 

A  strict  observance  of  the  laws  of  health  will  strengthen  a  good  const; 
tution  and  improve  a  bad  one. 

Diarrhea  in  nursing  children  is  always  the  result  in  a  change  in  the 
composition  of  the  milk,  from  whatever  cause. 

The  period  of  weaning  should  be  fixed  between  twelve  and  twenty 
months,  beginning  by  ceasing  to  give  the  breast  at  night. 

Children  .should  not  sleep  with  sickly  persons  or  with  those  of  advanced 
8ge. 

Where  an  infant  sleeps,  light  and  noise  should  be  excluded. 

A  young  child  should  not  be  wakened  suddenly,  nor  by  any  rude  motion 
or  loud  noise. 

Pulling  roughly,  trotting,  tossing,  swinging  from  side  to  side,  and  all  rude 
play  of  this  sort  does  no  good  and  may  do  great  harm. 

A  wise  mother,  who  has  a  cheerful  disposition  herself  and  performs  well 
her  duties  as  nurse,  will  have  no  good  rea.son  to  complain  that  uer  time  is  all 
occupied  by  day  and  her  rest  disturbed  by  night. 
35 


554  SOMETHINO  ABOUT  BABIES. 

A  YOUNG  MOTHER  writes:  *'  I  have  a  little  boy  seven  years  old,  and  a  little 
eirl  of  four.  I  have  never  had  the  trouble  of  some  yoang  mothers,  simplv 
because  I  was  regular  with  them  from  their  birth.  They  never  slept  with 
me,  but  in  a  crib  at  the  side  of  my  bed.  I  had  the  crib  lined  so  as  to  prevent 
a  draught,  and  tucked  their  covers  tightly  over  their  feet  and  fastened  them 
at  the  top  with  large  safety  pins  to  the  pillow — then  they  can  not  throw  them 
off  to  take  cold.  I  never  nursed  my  babies  more  than  twice  in  the  night, 
and  often  but  once ;  they  slept  better  being  alone.  In  the  mornine  I  nursed 
baby,  and  once  between  breakfast  and  dinner,  and  again  between  dinner  and 
supper,  also  right  after  dinner  was  over,  at  regular  hours  every  day.  If  they 
>rot  hungry  between  times,  they  were  ted  bread  and  milk.  After  sapper, 
tlie  little  one  was  undressed,  rubbed  well,  back  and  limbs,  flannel  nightgown 
put  on,  theu  nursed  and  put  to  bed,  and  they  seldom  awoke  before  twelve 
o'clock;  so  I  had  the  evenings  for  reading  and  practicing.  In  the  morning 
they  were  taken  up,  bathed  in  warm  water,  dressed,  nursed,  and  given  a  nap 
of  two  hours.  In  the  afternoon  they  were  put  to  sleep  at  one  o'clock,  and 
they  would  sleep  till  three.  I  think  no  mother  should  nurse  her  baby  after 
.it  is  a  year  old ;  it  breaks  the  mother  down,  and  does  baby  no  good.  As  my 
children  grew  out  of  babyhood  I  still  kept  them  regular  in  their  habits. 
They  get  up  in  the  morning  at  seven  o'clock,  wash,  dress,  and  eat  breakfast, 
drinking  milk  instead  of  coffee,  play  all  the  morning,  and  eat  a  hearty  din- 
ner. At  one  o'clock  they  are  put  in  a  bath,  their  night  clothes  put  on,  and 
gut  to  bed.  They  sleep  till  three  or  half-past,  then  are  dressed  cleanly.  At 
alf-past  five  they  eat  a  light  supper,  and  in  summer  time  at  eight,  and  in 
winter  time  at  half-past  six,  are  put  to  bed.  Two  healthier  children  will  be 
hard  to  find ;  they  never  eat  between  meals,  unless  it  is  an  apple,  and  never 
want  any  thing  else,  but  eat  heartily  at  the  table.  I  think  if  some  voung 
mothers  will  try  my  plan  they  will  say  there  is  no  need  of  half-sick  ancl  cross 
cliildren,  caused  by  eating  at  all  hours  and  being  up  late  at  night'* 

Sudden  Checking  op  Perspiration. — A  Boston  merchant,  m  "  lending  a 
hand,"  on  board  one  of  his  own  ships  on  a  windy  day,  found  himself,  at 
the  §ndof  an  hour  and  a  half,  pretty  well  exhausted  and  perspiring  freely. 
He  sat  down  to  rest,  and  engagm^  in  conversation,  time  passed  faster  than  he 
was  aware  of.  In  attempting  to  rise  he  found  he  was  unable  to  do  so  without 
assistance.  He  was  taken  iiome  and  put  to  bed,  where  he  remained  two 
years ;  and  for  a  long  time  after  could  only  hobble  about  with  the  aid  of  a 
crutch.  Less  exposures  than  this  have,  in  constitutions  not  so  vigorous,  re- 
sulted in  infiammation  of  the  lungs — "pneumonia" — ending  in  death  in 
less  than  a  week,  or  causing  tedious  rheumatisms,  to  be  a  source  of  torture 
for  a  lifetime.  Multitudes  of  lives  would  be  saved  everv  year^  and  an  in- 
calculable amount  of  human  suffering  would  be  preventecl  if  parents  would 
begin  to  explain  to  their  children,  at  tlie  ^e  of  three  or  four  years,  the  danger 
which  attends  cooling  off  too  quickly  after  exercise,  and  the  importance  of 
not  standing  still  after  exercise,  or  work,  or  play,  or  of  remaining  exposed  to 
the  wind,  or  of  sitting  at  an  open  window  or  door,  or  of  pulling  off  any  gar- 
ment, even  the  hat  or  bonnet,  while  heated. 

The  Uses  of  a  Sand-bao. — One  of  the  most  convenient  articles  to  be  used 
ill  a  sick-room  is  a  sand-bag.  Get  some  fine  sand,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a 
kettle  on  the  stove,  make  a  bag  about  eight  inches  square  of  flannel,*  fill  it 
w^ith  the  dry  sand,  sew  the  opening  carefully  together,  and  cover  the  bag 
with  cotton  or  linen  cloth.  This  will  prevent  the  sand  from  sifting  out,  ana 
will  also  enable  you  to  heat  the  bag  quickly  by  placing  it  in  the  oven,  or 
even  on  the  top  of  the  st<^ve.  After  once  using  this  you  will  never  again 
attempt  to  warm  the  feet  or  hands  of  a  sick  person  with  a  bottle  of  hot 
water  or  a  brick.  The  sand  holds  the  heat  a  long  time,  and  the  bag  can  be 
tucked  up  to  the  back  without  hurting  the  invalid.  It  is  a  good  plan  to 
make  two  or  three  of  the  bags  and  keep  them  ready  for  use. 

Give  babies  very  little  sugar,  in  any  form  whatevel",  as  it  has  a  tendency  *o 
constipate. 


SOMETHING  ABOUT  BABIES.  555 

On  the  first  symptoms  of  cold,  such  as  snuffling,  or  any  slight  hoarse- 
ness, give  immediately  a  warm  foot  bath,  and  then  grease  with  mutton 
tallow  the  nose,  neck,  chest,  and  feet;  warm  the  feet  well  at  the  fire.  Sweet- 
oil,  pig's-foot  oil,  or  any  kind  of  good  grease  will  answer  as  well  as  mutton 
tallow.     After  warming  w^ell  put  them  to  bed  and  wrap  up  well. 

Milk  for  the  use  oxchildren  should  cool  until  the  animal  heat  is  gone 
before  using. 


The  fbllowlng  mles  for  the  munagemeut  of  infants  daring  the  hotseasoa  are  from  Dr. 
Wilsdo'a  "  summer  and  Its  Difteoses  ** : 

ItrUe  t.->  Bathe  the  child  once  a  day  In  tepid  water.  If  feeble,  sponge  all  over  twice  a  day 
with  tepid  water,  or  tepid  water  and  vinegar. 

Jiule2,—AvolA  all  tight  bandaging.  Make  clothing  light  and  cool,  and  so  looAe  that  tbe 
limbs  may  bave  free  play.  At  night  undress,  sponge,  and  put  on  a  slip.  In  the  morning 
remove  slip,  bathe,  and  dre.ss  in  clean  clothes  ir  It  can  be  aflforded ;  if  not,  thoroughly  air 
elothing  by  hanging  it  up  during  the  night.    Use  clean  diapers,  and  change  often. 

JiuU  3.— Let  the  child  sleep  by  Itself  In  a  cot  or  cradle.  Put  to  t>ed  at  regular  hours,  and 
t«ach  to  go  to  sleep  wliboui  being  nursed  in  the  arms.  Give  no  cordUtl,  toothing  syrup,  or 
tUeuing  aropt,  wUhoxU  the  advice  uf  a  phytidan.  Tfiey  kill  thousandx  of  children  every  year. 
If  the  chlla  frets  it  is  hungry  or  ill.  Never  quiet  a  child  by  caudy  or  cake.  They  are  com- 
moD  causes  of  diarrhea  and  other  troubles. 

RuleA.—ia\ve  the  child  plenty  of  fresh  air.  Give  it  plenty  of  pure  cold  water.  Keep  It 
oat  of  rooms  where  cooking  or  washing  is  going  on.    Excessive  hi-ai  kills  children. 

Rule  b.—Kee^  the  liouse  sweet  and  clean,  cool,  and  well  aired.  In  hot  weather  leave 
windows  open  day  and  night.  Cook  in  the  yard,  in  a  shed,  or  in  ibe  garret.  Whitewash 
wails  every  spring,  and  keep  cellar  clear  of  rubbish.  Let  no  slops  collect.  Disinfect  priviei 
and  sinks  tty  a  solution  of  copperas,  and  got  your  neighbors  to  riean  up. 

RuU  6.— Ii  tbe  supply  of  breasi-mllk  is  ample,  and  the  child  thrives,  gives  no  other  food  in 
hot  weather.  If  the  supply  is  short  give  guai's  or  cow's  milk  in  addition.  Nuise  once  in 
two  or  three  hours  by  day,  and  as  seldom  as  possible  at  night.  Bemove  child  from  breast 
as  soon  as  It  falls  asleep,  and  never  give  tbe  breast  when  overheated  or  fatigued. 

ifui«7.— if  brought  up  by  hand,  give  soat's  milk,  or  cow's  milk,  and  use  no  other  fbod 
while  hot  weather  lasts.  For  an  infant  tnai  has  not  cut  its  front  teeth,  no  subslUult  for  miik 
it  mfe.    Creeping  children  must  not  be  allowed  to  pick  up  unwholesome  food. 

J2u/«6.— If^miik  is  pure  add  one-third  hot  water  to  It  until  child  ia  three  months  old  ;  af- 
terwards gradually  lessen  the  water.  Sweeten  each  pint  with  a  heaping  dessert-spoon ftil 
of  sugar  of  milk,  or  a  teo-spoonfUl  crushed  sugar.  When  very  hot  weather  give  milk  cold. 
It  must  be  unskimmed  and  as  fresh  as  possible,  and  brouqM,  very  early  in  the  morning.  Scald 
pans  to  be  used  with  boiling  suds.  In  very  hot  weather  boil  milk  assoon  as  it  comes,  and 
remove  to  the  coolest  place  in  the  house  upuu  ice  or  down  in  a  well.  In  a  warm  room  it 
floon  spoils 

HuU  9.— If  the  milk  disagrees  add  a  Uble-spoon  of  lime-water  to  each  botUeful.  If  pure 
milk  can  not  be  had.  try  condensed  milk,  sold  at  all  grocers.  Prepare  by  adding  to  six 
table-spoons  boiling  water,  without  sugar,  one  table-spoon  or  more  of  the  milk,  accord- 
ing to  age  of  the  cnild.  If  this  disagrees,  a  tea-Kt)oon  of  arrow-root,  of  sago,  or  of  corn- 
starch, may  be  added  to  a  pint  of  milk,  a.>i  prepared  under  Itule  8,  and  cautiously  tried.  If 
milk  can  not  be  digested  try,  for  a  few  d.iys.  pure  creaiii,  diluted  with  three-fourths  to 
four-flfths  water,  returning  to  milk  as  soon  as  poHslbie. 

RtUe  10.— The  nursing-bottle  mutt  be  kr^tt  yttUctly  clean,  otherwise  the  milk  will  turn  sour, 
and  the  child  will  be  made  ill.    Empty  atlei  each  meal,  rinse  tirst  in  cold  water,  take  apart, 
and  place  nipple  and  bottle  in  clean  water,  to  wliich  u  little  soda  has  been  added.    It  is  bet- 
ter to  have  two  bottles,  and  use  them  by  turns.    The  plain  bottle  with  rubber  nipples  is 
better  than  the  tube,  which  is  difficult  to  keep  clean. 

Rule  11.— Do  not  wean  a  child  Just  before  or  during  hot  weather ;  nor.  as  a  rule,  until  after 
Its  second  summer.  If  suckling  disagrees  with  the  mother  she  must  not  wean  the  child, 
but  feed  it  in  part  from  the  nursing  bottle  as  directed.  However  Amall  the  supply  of  breant- 
milk,  the  mother  should  keep  it  upagaiust  sickness.  Jt  will  i\;un  save  l/u  life,  of  a  child 
when  every  thing  else  faiU.  When  over  six  months  old  the  mother  may  save  her  strength 
by  giving  it  one  or  two  meals  a  da}'  of  stale  bread  and  milk,  which  should  be  pressed 
tbrough  a  sieve,  and  put  into  a  nursing  bottle.  When  from  eiKht  months  to  a  year  old,  it 
may  have  also  one  meal  a  day  of  the  yolk  of  a  fresh,  rare  boilea  egg,  or  one  of  beef  or  mut- 
teu-broth,  into  which  stale  bread  has  been  crumbled.  When  older  ft  can  have  a  little  meat, 
finely  minoed ;  but  even  then  milk  should  be  its  principal  food,  and  not  what  grown  people 
usually  eaL 

Jitde  12.— If  a  child  is  suddenly  taken  with  vomiting,  and  purging,  and  prostration,  send 
Ibr  the  doctor  at  once.  Meantime,  put  the  child  fbr  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  bath,  then 
carefully  wipe  dry  with  a  warm  towel,  and  wrap  in  warm  blankets,  if  hands  and  teei  are 
cold,  apply  bottles  filled  with  hot  water  and  wrapped  in  flannel.  Place  a  mush  poultice  or 
flaxseed  poultice  to  which  one  quarter  part  of  mustard  flour  has  i>een  added,  or  flannels 
wrung  out  of  hot  vinegar  and  water,  over  the  belly.  Give  every  fifteen  minutes,  five  drops 
braDoy  in  a  teaspoonfiil  of  water;  if  vomiting  continues, give  the  brandy  in  the  same 
ttuantlty  oi  milk  and  lime-water.  If  the  dlarrhcea  has  Just  beguUi  or  if  caused  by  improper 
iood,  give  a  teaspoonfUl  of  castor-oil.  or  of  spioed  syrup  of  rhubarb.  If  the  child  has  been 
fed  partly  on  breast-milk,  mother's  milk  alone  must  be  used  now.  If  weaned,  dilute  pure 
milk  witn  lime-water,  or  give  weak  beef-tea  or  chicken-water.  Let  child  drink  cold  water 
freely.  Bemove  soiled  diapers  at  once  from  the  room  but  save  lor  the  examination  of  the 
physician. 


HESTTS  FOR  THE  WELL. 


Jleanliness  is  next  to  godliness. 

Always  rest  before  and  after  a  hearty  meal. 

Do  not  eat  too  much.    Do  not  eat  late  at  night. 

Food,  especially  bread,  should  never  be  eaten  hot. 

Children  should  never  be  dressed  in  tight  clothes. 

Never  sit  in  a  damp  or  chilly  room  without  a  fire. 

Supper  just  before  going  to  bed  is  highly  injurious.  If  hungry,  a  bit  of 
bread  or  cracker  will  check  the  craving  without  spoiling  sleep. 

Never  enter  a  room  where  a  person  is  sick  with  an  infectious  disease  with 
an  empty  stomach. 

When  really  sick,  send  for  a  good  physician ;  and  as  you  value  your  health 
and  life,  have  Hothing  to  do  wUh  quacks  or  patent  medicines. 

The  condiments,  pepper,  ginger,  etc.,  are  less  injurious  in  summer.  Fat 
beef,  bacon,  and  hearty  food  may  be  eaten  more  freely  in  winter. 

Let  the  amount  of  the  meal  bear  some  relation  to  future  needs  as  well 
as  present  appetite;  but  it  is  better  to  carry  an  extra  pound  in  your  pocket 
than  in  your  stomach. 

A  small  quantity  of  plain,  nourishing  soup  is  a  wholesome  first  course  at 
dinner.  Rich  soups  are  injurious  to  persons  of  weak  digestion,  and  a  large 
quantity  of  liquid  food  is  not  beneficial  to  adults. 

Three  full  meals  daily  are  customary,  but  the  number,  the  relative  quantity 
and  quality,  and  the  intervals  between  them,  are  largely  matters  of  opinion, 
habit  and  convenience;  regularity  is  the  important  thing. 

Exercise  before  breakfast  should  be  very  light ;  and  it  is  better  to  take  a 
cracker  or  some  trifle  before  going  out,  especially  in  a  miasmatic  climate. 
Early  breakfasts  are  a  necessity  to  the  young  and  growing. 

Remember  that  when  the  stomach  is  .sour  after  eating,  the  food  is  actually 
rotting — that  is  a  nauseating  word  but  it  expresses  the  absolute  fact  in  the 
case — and  it  means  that  some  of  the  rules  above  given  have  been  violated. 

Eat  in  pure  air  and  in  pleasant  company;  light  conversation  and  gentle 
exercise  promote  digestion,  but  hard  work  of  any  kind  retards  it.  Avoid  se- 
vere bodily  or  mental  labor  just  before  and  for  two  hours  after  a  fui^  meaL 

Most  people  drink  too  much  and  too  fast.  A  small  quantity  of  water 
sipped  slowly  satisfies  thirst  as  well  as  a  pailful  swallowed  at  a  draughts 

Drinks  at  meals  should  be  taken  at  the  close,  and  not  too  strong  or  hot. 
Dyspeptics  especially  should  drink  s]>aringly.  Children  need  more  thaa 
adults,  but  too  much  is  injurious. 

Adults  need  to  eat  at  regular  intervals  two  or  three  times  a  day,  allowiag 
(556) 


HiyTS  FOR  THE  WELL.  557 

time  for  each  meal  to  be  fully  digested  before  another  is  taken.  It  would 
spoil  a  loaf  of  bread,  half  baked,  to  poke  a  lump  of  cold  dough  into  the 
middle  of  it. 

Use  good  palatable  food,  not  highly  seasoned ;  vary  in  quantity  and  quality 
according  to  age,  climate,  weather  and  occupation.  Unbolted  or  partially 
bolted  grains  are  good  and  sutticient  food  for  men;  but  nature  craves  variety. 
As  a  rule,  the  flesh  of  meat-eating  animals  is  not  wholesome  food.  Hot 
8oft  bread  digests  slowly. 

Don't  eat  too  fast;  the  digestive  organs  are  something  like  a  stove,  which 
if  choked  up  and  out  of  order,  burns  slowly,  and  if  you  keep  piling  in  fuel, 
grows  more  and  more  choked.  The  wiser  course  is  to  let  it  burn  down  and 
put  in  fuel  only  when  needed.  It  is  a  foolish  notion  that  food  always  keeps 
up  the  strength.  Only  what  we  digest  helps  us;  all  beyond  that  is  a  tax 
upon  the  system,  and  exhausts  the  strength  instead  of  increasing  it. 

Masticate  well ;  five  minutes  more  at  dinner  may  give  you  better  use  of  an 
hour  afterward.  At  meals  never  drink  a  full  glass  of  very  hot  or  very  cold 
liquid.    Never  wash  down  a  mouthful.     Avoid  waste  of  saliva. 

Avoid  tobacco,  alcohol  in  all  forms,  and  all  stimulants.  Every  healthy 
man  is  better,  stronger,  has  a  clearer  head,  more  endurance,  and  better 
chances  for  a  long  life,  if  free  from  the  habitual  use  of  stimulants.  The 
boy  who  begins  the  use  of  tobacco  or  liquors  early  is  physically  ruined. 

Avoid  colds  and  break  up  as  soon  as  possible  when  taken.  As  soon  as 
conscious  that  the  pores  are  closed,  keep  warm  within  doors,  drink  warm 
ginger  tea,  relax  the  bowels,  and  take  a  vapor  bath.  Breaking  a  cold  up 
early,  often  saves  a  severe  attack  of  congestion,  pneumonia,  often  even  a 
fever. 

Panaceas  aro  prhiia  facie humhnf;s;  their  makers  and  takers,  their  vendors 
and  recommenders  are  knaves  or  fools,  or  both.  Nature  cures  most  diseases, 
if  let  alone  or  aided  by  diet  and  proper  care.  There  are  no  miracles  in 
medicine;  remember  that  to  keep  or  to  got  health  generally  requires  only  a 
recognition  of  Nature's  powers,  with  knowledge  of  anatomy  and  physiology, 
experience,  and  common  sense. 

Never  sleep  in  clothing  worn  during  the  day.  and  let  that  worn  at  night 
be  exposed  to  the  air  by  day.  Three  pints  of  moisture,  filled  with  the  waste 
of  the  body,  are  given  off  every^  twenty-four  hours,  and  mostlj'  absorbed  by 
clothing.  Exposure  to  air  and  sunlight  purifies  the  clothing  and  bedding  of 
the  poisons  which  nature  is  trying  to  get  rid  of,  and  which  would  otherwise 
be  brought  again  into  contact  with  the  body. 

The  lungs  should  be  trained  to  free,  full,  and  vigorous  action.  "The 
breath  is  the  life."  A  man  will  exist  for  days  without  food,  but  when  the 
breath  is  cut  off  life  ceases.  If  breathing  is  imperfect,  all  the  functions  of 
the  body  work  at  a  disadvantage.  It  is  a  common  fault  to  breathe  from 
the  surface  of  the  lungs  only,  not  bringing  into  play  the  abdominal  muscles, 
and  so  not  filling  the  more  remote  air-cells  of  the  lungs.  By  this  defective 
action  the  system  is  deprived  of  a  part  of  its  supply  of  air,  and  by  inaction 
the  air-cells  become  diseased. 


558  HINTS  FOR  THE  WELL. 

Evacuate  the  bowels  daily,  and,  above  all,  regularly ;  the  best  time  is  after 
breakfast;  partly  to  be  rid  of  a  physical  burden  during  the  day,  but  chiefly 
to  relieve  the  bowels.  Constipation  is  safer  than  diarrhoea.  For  the  former, 
exercise,  ride  horseback,  knead  the  belly,  take  a  glass  of  cool  water  before 
breakfast,  eat  fruit  and  laxative  food ;  for  the  latter,  follow  an  opposite 
course — toast,  crust,  crackers  and  rice  are  the  best  food.  Pain  and  uneasi- 
ness of  digestive  organs  are  signs  of  disturbance;  keep  a  clear  conscience; 
rest,  sleep,  eat  properly ;  avoid  strong  medicines  in  ordinary  cases. 

Keep  the  person  scrupulously  clean ;  change  the  clothing  worn  next  to  the 
skin  (which  should  be  tlannel)  often.  Don't  economize  in  washing  bills.  A 
cold  bath  every  morning  for  very  vigorous  persons,  or  once  or  twice  a  week 
and  thorough  rubbing  with  a  coarse  towel  or  flesh-brush  mornings  when 
bath  is  not  taken,  for  the  less  robust,  is  necessary  to  keep  the  functions  of 
the  skin  in  health,  and  is  very  invigorating.  After  warm  baths  a  dash  of 
cold  water  will  prevent  chill  and  "taking  cold."  In  bathing  in  winter,  the 
shock  from  cold  water  is  lessened  by  standing  a  minute  in  the  cold  air  after 
the  removal  of  clothing  before  applying  water. 

A  very  prolific  source  of  disease  is  defective  drainage.  In  the  country, 
slops  and  waste  water  are  thrown  into  the  back  yard  to  trickle  back  into 
the  well  and  pollute  it,  or  to  form  a  reeking  cesspool  which  poisons  the  air. 
In  cities,  the  sewer-connections  with  houses  allow  the  foul  gases  to  rush 
back  through  the  waste-pipes  to  closets  or  sinks  and  into  the  house.  Neat- 
ness will  cure  the  first,  and  a  flue  connecting  each  system  of  drainage-pipes 
with  the  tallest  chimney  in  the  house  where  a  fire  is  constantly  used,  will 
draw  off  and  consume  the  gases  in  the  second. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  the  use  of  chloride  of  lime,  and  other  fu- 
migants,  does  not  destroy  filthiness,  but  only  renders  it  less  evident.  Clean- 
liness, fresh  air,  and  sunlight  will  purify.  Cleanliness  is  a  very  strong  word. 
Carpets  filled  with  dust  or  grease,  dirty  furniture,  or  walls  covered  with  old 
paper,  defile  the  atmosphere  as  much  as  a  refuse  heap  in  the  cellar  or  back 
yard.  A  dark  house  is  generally  unwholesome  and  dirty.  The  sunlight  is 
second  only  in  importance  to  fresh  air.  To  convince  one  that  light  purifies, 
it  is  only  necessary  to  go  into  a  darkened  room  and  note  the  corrupt  smelL 

Ventilation  can  not  be  accomplished  by  simply  letting  the  pure  air  in ; 
the  bad  air  must  be  let  out  Open  a  window  at  top  and  bottom,  hold  a 
lighted  candle  in  the  draft,  and  see  the  flame  turn  outward  at  the  top  and 
inward  at  the  bottom,  showing  the  purifying  currents.  Windows  on  opposite 
sides  of  the  room  ventilate  still  more  perfectly.  In  sleeping  rooms,  avoid 
"drafts'*  when  possible,  but  danger  of  taking  cold  from  them  may  be 
averted  by  extra  clothing.  In  living-rooms,  an  open  fire-place  or  grate  in- 
sures ventilation.  The  tise  of  close  stoves,  and  close  rooms,  are  the  causes 
of  the  increased  prevalence  and  fatality,  in  winter,  of  small  pox,  scarlet 
fever,  and  other  contagions  diseases. 

Colds  are  often,  if  not  generally,  the  result  of  debility,  and  are  preceded 
by  disordered  digestion.  Such  cases  are  prevented  by  a  removal  of  the  cause 
hy  diet  and  pure  air.    Extreme  cold  or  heat,  and  sudden  exposure  to  cold 


HINTS  FOR  THE  WELL.  569 

by  passing  from  a  heated  room  to  cold  outside  air,  is  very  injarious  to  the 
old  or  iireak.  All  such  should  avoid  great  extremes  and  sudden  changes. 
In  passing  from  heated  assemblies  to  the  cold  air,  the  mouth  should  be  kept 
closed,  and  the  breathing  done  through  the  nostrils  only,  so  that  the  cold 
air  may  be  warmed  before  reaching  the  lungs,  which  have  just  been  im- 
mersed in  a  hot-air  bath.  The  injurious  effect  of  such  sudden  changes  is 
caused  by  driving  the  blood  from  the  surface  to  the  internal  organs,  pro- 
ducing congestions. 

Bad  smells  mean  that  decay  is  going  on  somewhere.  Rotten  particles 
are  floating  in  the  air,  and  penetrating  the  nostrils  and  lungs.  Their  ofTen- 
siveness  means  that  they  are  poison,  and  will  produce  sickness  and  death,  ur 
80  reduce  the  tone  of  the  system  that  ordinarily  luild  disorders  will  prove 
fatal.  In  all  such  cases  remove  the  cause  when  possible.  Many  of  these 
poisons  are  given  off  by  the  body,  and  are  removed  by  pure  air,  as  dirt  is 
washed  away  by  water.  Soiled  or  foul  air  can  not  purify  any  more  than 
dirty  water  will  clean  dirty  clothes.  Pure  air  enters  the  lungs,  becomes 
charged  with  waste  particles,  which  are  poison  if  taken  back  again.  An 
t^n\t  spoils  one  gallon  of  pure  air  every  minute^  or  twenty-five  flour  barrelfuls 
in  a  single  night,  in  breathing  alone.  A  lighted  gas-burner  consumes  eleven 
gallons,  and  an  ordinary  stove  twenty-five  gallons  a  minute.  Think  of  these 
facts  before  sealing  up  the  fire-place,  or  nailing  down  the  windows  for 
winter. 

Let  the  sunshine  into  every  room  in  the  house.  The  sunlight  is  a  great 
purifier.  Keep  the  cellar  not  only  clean  and  sweet,  but  give  it  fresh  air  and 
good  ventilation,  or  it  will  poison  the  rest  of  the  house. 

Tf  one  is  accustomed  to  sleeping  with  windows  open,  there  is  no  danger  of 
taking  cold  (rom  the  exposure,  winter  or  summer.  People  who  shut  up 
windows  to  keep  out  "  night  air,"  make  a  mistake.  At  night,  the  only  air 
to  breathe  is  **  night  air.**  A  bed  that  has  been  made  up  for  a  week  or  longer 
is  not  fit  to  sleep  in.  It  has  gathered  moisture  and  should  be  aired.  When 
fixed  wash-bowls  stand  in  sleeping^rooms,  the  waste-pipe  should  be  carefully 
dosed,  as  sewer  gases  often  escape  through  them  into  the  room. 

Many  of  the  colds  which  people  are  said  to  catch,  commence  at  the  feet  To 
keep  these  extremities  warm,  therefore,  is  to  effect  an  insurance  against  the 
almost  interminable  list  of  disorders  which  spring  out  of  a  "slight  cold.** 
First,  never  be  tightly  shod.  Boots  and  shoes,  when  they  fit  closely,  press 
against  the  foot  and  prevent  a  free  circulation  of  the  blood.  When,  on  the 
contrary,  they  do  not  embrace  the  foot  too  tightly  the  blood  gets  fair  play, 
and  the  places  left  between  the  leather  and  the  stockings  are  filled  with  a 
comfortable  supply  of  warm  air.  The  second  rule  is,  never  to  sit  in  damp 
shoes.  It  is  often  imagined  that  unless  they  are  positively  wet  it  is  not 
necessary  to  change  them  while  the  feet  are  at  rest  This  is  a  fallacy ;  for 
when  the  least  dampness  is  absorbed  into  the  sole,  it  is  attracted  nearer  to 
the  foot  itself  by  its  own  heat,  and  thus  perspiration  is  dangerously  checked. 
Any  person  may  prove  tliis,  by  trying  the  experiment  of  neglecting  this  rule, 
and  his  feet  will  become  cold  and  damp  after  a  few  moments,  although, 
liking  off  the  shoe  and  warming  it,  it  will  appear  quite  dry. 


660  HINTS  FOR  THE  WELL, 

Remember  that  there  is  no  patent  medicine  or  "  patent  pad,"  warranted 
to  "cure  by  absorption,"  that  will  absorb  "disease  half  as  rapidly  as  a  wet 
towel  wrapped  arolind  the  body,  and  covered  with  a  dry  flannel.  If  people 
were  required  to  pay  $10  each  for  this  "  valuable  secret "  there  would  be  no 
difficulty  in  getting  millions  of  testimonials  to  its  efficacy.  It  is  too  cheap 
to  be  popular  with  people  who  liked  to  be  humbugged  ;  but  when  humbugs 
all  fail,  try  hot  and  cold  water. 

One  of  the  most  prominent  writers  on  health  topics  says:  "The  great 
practical  lesson  which  I  wish  to  inculcate,  to  be  engraven  as  on  a  plate  of 
steel,  on  the  memory  of  diildren  and  youth,  j-oung  men  and  women,  the 
mature  and  the  gray -headed:  AHcno  nothing  short  of  fire  or  endangered  life  to 
induce  you  to  resist^  for  one  single  moment,  nature^s  alvine  call.  So  far  from 
refusing  a  call  for  any  reason  short  of  life  and  death,  you  should  go  at  th* 
utual  time  and  solicit,  and  doing  so  you  will  have  your  reward  in  a  degree 
of  health  fulness,  and  in  a  length  of  life,  which  very  few  are  ever  i)ermitted 
to  enjoy.  If  the  love  of  health  and  life,  or  the  fear  of  inducing  painful 
disease  can  not  induce  you  to  adopt  the  plan  I  have  recommended,  there  is 
another  argument  which,  to  young  gentlemen  and  young  ladies,  may  appear 
more  convincing— j?«r«on«^  cleanliness.  [If  you  suffer  yourself  to  become 
and  remain  costive  you  will  smell  badly ;  the  breath  of  a  costive  child  even  is 
scarcely  to  be  endured.]  Cold  feet,  sick  headache,  piles,  fistulas,  these,  with 
scores  of  other  diseases,  have  their  first  foundations  laid  in  constipation, 
which  itself  is  infallibly  induced  by  resisting  nature's  first  calls.  Reader,  let 
it  be  your  wisdom  never  to  do  it  again." 

A  Dyspeptic's  Fight  for  Life. 

Judge  W.  was  a  depressed,  despondent,  discouraged,  listless,  moody,  nerv- 
ous, wretched  dyspeptic,  for  five  weary  years.  He  tried  travel,  but  neither 
the  keen  air  of  the  sea-shore  nor  the  bracing  breezes  of  the  northern  prairies 
brought  him  relief.  He  tried  all  the  panaceas  and  all  the  doctors  at  home 
and  abroad  in  vain.  Some  told  him  that  he  had  heart-disease,  others  thought 
it  was  inflammation  of  the  spleen,  gout,  Bright's  disease,  liver  complaint, 
lung  difficulty,  or  softening  of  the  brain.  Bottle  after  bottle  of  nostrums 
went  down  the  unfortunate  man's  throat,  and  it  was  only  when  physicians 
and  friends  gave  him  up,  and  pronounced  him  to  all  intents  a  dead  man, 
that  he  threw  bottles,  plasters,  powders  and  pill§  to  the  four  winds,  and,  with 
the  energy  of  despair,  set  about  disappointing  his  doctors,  and  getting  ready 
to  live  despite  their  ghastly  predictions.  Then  began  a  fight  for  life  against 
dyspepsia,  a  fight  which  many  have  begun,  but  few  have  won.  He  bathed 
the  whole  body  every  morning  in  cold  water,  summer  and  winter,  not  by  a 
shower  or  a  plunge,  but  by  vigorously  dashing  the  water  on  the  body  with  the 
hands,  and  afterwards  rubbing  briskly  with  a  coarse  towel.  This  was  con- 
tinued without  missing  a  single  morning  for  years.  In  the  meantime  the 
strictest  diet  was  instituted.  By  experimenting,  the  patient  found  what  he 
could  eat  without  harm,  and  ate  that  only  in  very  small  quantities,  meas- 
uring his  food  on  his  plate  before  beginning  his  meal,  and  limiting  himself 
rigidly  to  that  quantity.    His  principal  food  for  nearly  three  years  was 


HINTS  FOR  THE  WELL.  561 

cracked  wheat  and  Graham  mush,  and  the  last  meal  was  taken  at  two  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon — not  a  particle  of  food  passed  his  lips  from  that  time  until 
the  next  morning,  thus  giving  the  stomach  complete  rest  and  time  to  begin 
the  work  of  recuperation.  Special  attention  was  given  to  eating  slowly  and 
thoroughly  masticating  the  food ;  and  not  to  eat  too  much,  too  fast,  or  too 
often,  were  rules  strictly  and  rigidly  observed.  Bathing,  diet,  rest,  sleep,  and 
gentle  exercise  in  the  open  air  did  the  work.  It  was  a  dreadful  conflict — 
days  of  struggle  and  temptation,  requiring  more  heroism  and  steady  tenacity 
of  purpose  than  would  nerve  a  soldier  for  battle,  for  such  a  battle  is  for  the 
day,  but  this  fight  was  renewed  every  morning  and  continued  every  day  for 
months  and  years.  But  patience,  courage,  intelligent  judgment,  and  a  strict 
adherence  to  the  above  regimen  won  the  day  without  a  grain  or  a  drop  of 
medicine,  and  Judge  W.  believes  that  the  good  Lord  of  us  all  has  never  per- 
mitted any  man  to  discover  or  invent  medicine  that  will  cure  dyspepsia. 
Nature  is  the  only  perfect  physician.  Cold  water,  fresh  air,  the  natural 
frain  (wheat),  sleep,  rest,  and  gentle  exercise,  make  up  the  grand  panacea^ 
With  these  alone,  and  the  self-denial  and  moral  courage  to  persist  in  the 
good  fight,  the  confirmed,  nervous,  miserable  dyspeptic,  became  a  well, 
strong,  and  hearty  man — in  five  days?  No.  In  five  months?  No.  In  five 
years?  Yes;  and  after  the  fight,  when  contemplating  the  victory  won.  he 
could  say  with  the  model  philanthropist,  Amos  Lawrence,  after  his  battle 
of  fifteen  long  y^ars  with  the  same  disease,  **  If  men  only  knew  how  sweet  tlie 
▼ictory  is,  thev  would  not  hesitate  a  moment  to  engage  in  the  conflict.*' 


HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM. 


The  sick-room  should  be  the  lightest,  most  cheerfal,  and  best  ventilated 
room  in  the  house.  Patients  in  the  sunny  wards  of  liospitals  recover 
soonest,  and  the  sick,  in  nearly  all  cases,  lie  with  their  faces  to  the  light. 
Every  thing  should  be  kept  in  perfect  neatness  and  order.  Matting  i9 
better  than  a  carpet,  though,  when  the  latter  is  used,  it  may  be  kept  cleao 
by  throwing  a  few  damp  tea*leaves  over  only  a  part  of  the  room  at  a  time^ 
then  quietly  brushing  them  up  with  a  hand-broom.  A  table  not  liable 
to  injury,  a  small  wicker  basket  with  compartments  to  hold  the  different 
bottles  of  medicine  and  a  small  book  in  which  to  write  all  the  physician*B 
directions,  two  baskets  made  on  the  same  plan  to  hold  glasses  or  cups» 
screens  to  shade  the  light  from  the  eyes  of  the  patient,  a  nursery-lamp 
with  which  to  heat  water,  beef-tea,  etc.,  a  quill  tied  on  the  door-handle 
with  which  the  nurse  can  notify  others  that  the  patient  is  asleep  by  merely 
passing  the  feather-end  through  the  key-hole,  several  "ring  cushions**  to 
^ve  relief  to  patients  compelled  to  lie  continually  in  one  position  (these 
cushions  are  circular  pieces  of  old  linen  sewed  together  and  stuffed  with 
bran ;  or  pads  may  be  used,  made  of  cotton-batting  basted  into  pieces  of 
old  muslin  of  any  size  required),  and  a  sick  couch  or  chair,  are  a  few  of 
the  many  conveniences  which  ought  to  be  in  every  sick-room. 

Pure  air  in  a  sick-room  is  of  the  utmost  importance.  In  illness,  the  poi- 
soned body  is  desperately  trying  to  throw  off,  through  lungs,  skin,  and  in 
every  possible  way,  the  noxious  materials  that  have  done  the  mischief. 
Bad  air  and  dirty  or  saturated  bed-clothes,  increase  the  difficulty  at  the  very 
time  when  the  weakened  jwwers  need  all  the  help  they  can  get  Avoid 
air  from  kitchen  or  close  closeta  Outside  air  is  the  best,  but,  if  needed, 
there  should  be  jk  fire  in  the  room  to  take  off  the  chill.  A  cold  is  rarely 
taken  in  bed,  with  the  bed-clothes  well  tucked  in,  but  oftener  in  getting  up 
out  of  a  warm  bed  when  the  skin  is  relaxed.  Of  course  any  thing  like  a 
"  chill "  should  be  avoided,  and  it  is  not  well  to  allow  a  draft  or  current  of 
air  to  pass  directly  over  the  bed  of  the  patient 

A  good  way  to  secure  a  supply  of  fresh  air,  without  a  draft,  is  to  have  a 
board  five  or  six  inches  wide,  and  as  long  as  the  width  of  the  window;  raise 
the  lower  sash,  place  board  under  it,  and  the  fresh  air  finds  its  way  in  be- 
tween the  sash  by  an  upward  current 

In  disease  less  heat  is  produced  by  the  body  than  in  health.  This  decline 
occurs  even  in  summer,  and  is  usually  most  evident  in  the  early  morning, 
when  the  vital  powers  slacken,  the  food  of  the  previous  day  having  been 
exhausted.    The  sick   should  be  watched  between  midnight  and  ten  or 


HINTS  FOB  THE  SICK-ROOM.  563 

« 

eleven  in  the  rooming,  and  if  any  decline  in  heat  is  noticed,  it  should  he 
flupplied  by  jugs  of  hot  water.  A  sick-room  should,  above  all,  be  quiet. 
Any  rustling  SQund,  such  as  that  of  a  silk  dress  or  shoes  which  creak,  should 
be  entirely  avoided.  If  it  is  necessary  to  put  coal  on  the*  fire,  drop  it  on 
quietly  in  small  paper  sacks,  or  rolled  in  paper  slightly  dampened.  Visitors 
should  never  be  admitted  to  a  sick-room.  The  necessary  attendants  are  usu- 
ally a  sufficient  annoyance  to  a  weak  patient,  and  many  a  tombstone  might 
truthfully  and  appropriately  be  inscribed,  "Talked  to  death  by  well-meaning 
friends."  It  is  not  generally  the  loudness  of  a  noise  that  disturbs  the  sick, 
but  the  sound  that  produces  expectation  of  something  to  happen.  Some 
can  not  bear  any  noise.  Any  thing  that  suddenly  awakens  is  injurious. 
Never  awaken  a  sleeping  patient  unless  ordered  to  do  so  by  the  physician. 
In  sickness,  the  brain  is  weakened  with  the  rest  of  the  body,  and  sleep 
strengthens  it.  If  rest  is  interrupted  soon  after  it  is  begun,  the  brain  is 
weakened  so  much  the  more,  and  the  patient  becomes  irritable  and  wake- 
ful. If  sleep  lasts  longer,  he  falls  asleep  again  more  readily.  Never  speak 
within  the  hearing  of  the  sick,  in  tones  which  can  not  be  fully  understood. 
An  occasional  word,  or  murmur  of  conversation,  or  whisper,  is  intolerable, 
and  occasions  needless  apprehension. 

Few  persons  have  any  idea  of  the  exquisite  neatness  necessary  in  a  sick- 
room. What  a  well  person  might  endure  with  impunity,  may  prove  fatal  to 
a  weak  patient.  Especially  the  bed  and  bedding  should  be  scrupulously 
clean.  In  most  diseases  the  functions  of  the  skin  are  disordered,  and  the 
clothing  becomes  saturated  with  foul  perspiration,  so  that  the  patient  alter- 
nates between  a  cold  damp  after  the  bed  is  made,  and  a  warm  damp  before, 
both  poison  to  his  system.  Sheets  which  are  used  should  be  dried  often 
from  this  poisonous  damp,  either  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire,  and  the  mattress 
and  blanket  next  the  sheets  should  also  be  carefully  aired  as  often  as  pos- 
sible. In  changing  very  sick  patients  (particularly  women  after  confinement) 
the  sheets  and  wearing-clothes  should  be  well  aired  by  hanging  by  the  fire 
for  two  days.  Move  the  patient  close  to  one  side  of  the  bed,  turn  the 
under  sheet  over  close  to  the  invalid,  then  smooth  the  mattress,  removing 
any  thing  that  may  be  on  it.  Make  ready  the  clean  sheet,  by  rolling  one- 
half  into  a  round  roll,  lay  this  close  by  the  invalid,  spread  the  other  half 
smoothly  over  the  bed.  Now  assist  the  patient  on  the  clean  sheet,  unroll 
and  spread  over  the  other  side  of  the  bed.  Have  the  upper  sheet  ready, 
which  must  be  carefully  and  gently  laid  over  the  invalid,  then  add  the  other 
bed-clothes.  (In  dressing  a  blister  where  a  bandage  has  to  be  placed  around 
the  body,  roll  one-half  the  bandage,  place  It  under  the  invalid,  so  that  the 
attendant  at  the  other  side  can  reach  it,  unrolling,  and  placing  it  around 
the  patient  without  disturbing  him.)  Light  blankets  are  best  for  coverings. 
Never  use  the  impervious  cotton  counterpanes  and  comforters.  The  clothing 
should  be  as  light  as  possible  with  the  requisite  warmth.  The  bed  should 
be  low,  and  placed  in  the  light,  and  as  a  rule  the  pillows  should  be  low,  so 
as  to  give  the  lungs  free  play.  Scrofula  is  sometimes  caused  by  children 
sleeping  with  their  heads  under  the  clothing,  and  patients  sometimes  ac- 
quire the  same  injurious  habit. 


564  HJ^TS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM. 

Bathing  should  aWays  be  done  under  the  advice  of  a  physician,  but  soap 
and  water  are  great  restoratives.  In  most  cases,  washing  an^  properly  dry- 
ing the  skin  gives  great  relief.  Care  should  be  taken,  while  sponging  and 
cleansing,  not  to  expose  too  great  a  surface  at  a  time,  so  as  to  check  per- 
spiration. The  physician  will  regulate  the  temperature.  Sometimes  a  little 
vinegar,  whisky,  or  alcohol  added  to  the  water,  makes  the  bath  more  re- 
freshing, and  bay-rum  for  the  face,  neck,  and  hands  is  often  acceptable. 
Whenever  the  bath  is  followed  by  a  sense  of  oppression,  it  has  done  harm. 
Its  eti'ect  should  be  comfort  and  relief. 

Chamber  utensils  should  be  emptied  and  thoroughly  cleansed  immedi- 
ately after  using,  and  in  no  case  allowed  to  remain  standing  in  the  sick- 
room. Slop-pails,  into  wliich  nothing  should  be  allowed  to  go  except  tb© 
waste  water  from  the  \va*h  j>tand,  must  be  emptied  and  cleansed  thoroughly 
at  least  twice  a  day. 

It  is  well  for  both  nurse  and  patient  to  remember  that  nothing  relieves 
nausea  or  vomiting  sooner  than  drinking  hot  water  in  as  great  quantity  and 
as  hot  as  possible.  Placing  the  hands  in  hot  water  up  to  the  wrists,  a  flan- 
nel or  other  cloth,  dipped  in  hot  water  and  laid  five  or  six  folds  thick,  on 
any  pained  part,  will  relieve  suffering  more  promptly  tlian  all  the  pain- 
killers in  the  world.  Cover  the  wet  flannel  with  another  dry  one,  the  e<lges 
of  which  extend  over  the  wet  one  an  inch  or  more.  In  about  five  minutes 
slip  the  wet  flannel  out  and  put  in  its  place  another  as  hot  as  can  be  han- 
dled, taking  care  to  let  as  little  cold  air  as  jwssible  touch  the  skin  over 
which  the  hot  flannel  has  been  applied.  IjVhen  pain  is  relieved,  put  on 
towels  wet  in  cool  water  and  cover  with  flannel ;  leave  for  an  hour  or  more, 
remove  and  wipe  dry,  rubbing  vigorously.  These  hot  applications  will  often 
relieve  a  violent,  dry  cough  in  a  few  minutes,  and  in  some  forms  of  croup 
will  cure  in  half  an  hour. 

Patients  are  often  killed  by  kindness.  A  spoonful  of  improper  food,  or 
the  indulgence  of  some  whim,  may  prove  fatal.  A  physician's  directions 
should  always  be  observed  with  the  strictest  fidelity.  Medicines  and  things 
which  will  be  wanted  during  the  night  should  all  be  prepared  before  the 
patient  grows  sleepy.  Every  thing  should  be  done  quickly  but  quietly,  and 
with  precision.  In  talking,  sit  where  the  patient  can  see  you  without  turn- 
ing his  head.  Never  ask  questions  when  he  is  doing  any  thing,  and  never 
lean  or  sit  upon  the  bed.  Sick  persons  generally  prefer  to  be  told  any 
thing  rather  than  to  have  it  read  to  them.  A  change  in  the  ornaments  of 
the  room  is  a  great  relief,  and  the  sick  especially  enjoy  bright  and  beautiful 
things.  Flowers,  which  do  not  have  a  pungent  odor,  are  always  a  great 
delight. 

In  convalescence  great  care  is  necessary,  and  the  physician's  directions 
should  be  implicitly  obeyed,  especially  in  regard  to  diet;  a  failure  in  obedi- 
ence often  brings  on  a  fatal  relapse,  A  little  food  at  a  time  and  often  re- 
peated, is  the  general  rule  for  the  sick.  A  table-spoon  of  beef-tea,  every 
half  hour,  will  be  digested,  when  a  cupful  every  three  or  four  hours  will  bo 
rejected.    (In  giving  a  drink  or  liquid  of  any  kind  a  moustache-cup  will  be 


HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-BOOM.  565 

fonnd  agreat  convenience.)  The  sick  can  rarely  take  solid  food  before  eleven  in 
the  morning,  and  a  spoonful  of  beef- tea,  or  whatever  stimulant  the  physician 
has  ordered,  given  every  hour  or  two,  relieves  exhaustion.  Brandy,  whisky, 
or  other  alcoholic  stimulants,  however,  should  never  be  ordered  in  cases 
where  there  is  a  hereditary  tendency  to  use  then\,  or  where  they  have  been 
used  as  a  beverage,  or  where  the  associations  of  the  patient  in  the  future 
would  be  likely  to  make  an  acquired  taste  for  them  a  temptation.  In  most 
cases  substitutes  may  readily  be  found.  Untouched  food  should  never  be 
left  at  tlie  bed-side.  Every  meal  should  be  a  surprise,  and  the  patient  should 
be  left  alone  while  eating.  Food  for  the  sick  must  be  of  the  best  quality, 
and  neatly  and  delicately  i)repared.  The  cook  should  do  half  the  patients 
digesting.  Keep  the  cup  and  saucer  dry,  so  that  no  drops  will  fall  on  the 
bed  or  clothing. 

Beef- tea  contains  a  certain  amount  of  nourishment,  and  may  be  given 
in  almost  any  inflammatory  disease.  Eggs  do  not  agree  with  all  patients, 
but  are  nourishing  food  when  admissible.  Tenderloin  of  beef,  cut  ncrosa 
the  grain,  and  broiled  on  live  coals,  without  smoke,  and  well  cooked  or 
rare,  as  tlie  physician  may  direct,  is  always  relished;  and  a  tender  lamb> 
chop,  broiled  in  the  same  way,  with  the  fat  removed  before  serving,  is 
easily  digested  and  nutritious.  Roasted  potatoes,  very  mealy,  are  prefer- 
red to  other  vegetables.  Milk  is  a  representative  diet;  and,  when  it  agrees 
with  the  digestion,  is  probably  better  adapted  to  .strengthen  the  lx)dy  in 
sickness  than  any  other  one  article  of  food,  but  it  must  be  fresh  and  pure. 
The  least  taint  of  sourness  is  injurious.  Butter-milk,  however,  when  fresh, 
is  useful  in  fevers,  bilious  diseases  and  dyspo j>sia.  Cream  is  even  better 
than  milk,  and  is  less  apt  to  turn  acid  in  the  stomach.  Many  patients 
thrive  on  Indian-meal  mush  and  cream,  and  any  preparations  of  Indian- 
meal  are  especially  good  for  persons  who  are  suffering  from  the  loss  of  natural 
warmth  (see  Bread-making).  Oat-meal,  Graham  and  rye  mush,  and  home- 
made brown-bread,  are  important  articles  of  diet,  greatly  relished  by  the 
sick.  There  are  instances  of  jK^rsons  recovering  from  serious  illness  where 
a  table-spoon  of  rye  mush,  and  half  tea-cup  butter-milk,  three  times  a  day, 
were  all  that  cculd  be  taken  for  two  or  three  weeks.  A  patient's  craving 
for  any  particular  article  of  food  should  l>e  coniniunicated  to  the  physi- 
cian, as  it  is  often  a  valuable  indication  of  tlie  wants  of  the  sj'stem.  These 
cravings  should  be  gratified  whenever  possible.  Melons  act  on  the  kidneys, 
and  are  good  in  many  cases  of  fever,  bowel  complaint,  etc.  Celery  also  is 
good  in  some  diseases  of  the  kidneys,  and  in  nervousness  and  rheumatism. 
Fresh,  crisp,  raw  cabbage,  sliced  fine  and  eaten  with  good  vinegar,  is  easily 
digested,  and  often  highly  relished  by  a  patient  suffering  from  a  "weak 
stomach."  New  cider  is  also  excellent  in  many  cases  of  nervous  dj'spep- 
sia.  Fruits  and  berries — raw,  ripe  and  perfect — used  in  moderation,  are 
admirable  remedies  in  cases  of  constipation  and  its  attendant  diseases. 
The  grape  has  a  wide  range  of  curative  qualities.  The  seeds  are  excel- 
lent for  costiveneas;  the  pulp  is  very  nutritious  and  soothing^  to  irritated 
bowels,  while  the  skins,  if  chewed,  act  as  an  astringent.    Raw  beef  is  ex- 


666  i/AV2b'  FOIi  THE  SICK-ROOM. 

cellent  in  dysentery;  it  should  be  minced  very  fine,  and  given  in  doses 
of  a  spoonful  at  a  time  every  four  hours,  the  patient,  in  the  meantime, 
eating  nothing  else.    Bananas  or  baked  apples  are  good  in  chronic  diai^ 
rhoea.     A  rind  of  bacon  is  good  for  teething  children  to  chew.    Rice-water 
or  rice-jelly  arc  advisable  in  many  cases  of  convalescence  from  acute  fever, 
summer  complaint  and  like  diseases.     Fresh  {x>p-corn,  nicely  salted,  clam- 
broth,  the  juice  of  a  roasted  oyster  in  the  shell,  soda-water  and  pepper- 
mint-tea are  remedies  for  sick  stomach.    Vegetable  acid  drinks,  herb-teas, 
toast-water,  and  all  such  drinks  are  often  much  relished.    A  custard  made 
from  a  preparation   of  liquid   rennet,  as  directed  on  bottle,  is  a  delicate 
dish.     Buttered-toast,  either  dry  or  dipped,  though  so  generally  given,  is 
rarely  a  suitable  article  for  the  sick,  as  melted  oils  are  very  difficult  of  diges- 
tion.   In  quinsy,  diphtheria,  inflammation  of  lungs,  typhus  and  other  putrid 
fevers,  acids  are  of  very  great  benefit.    Take  a  handful  of  dried  currants, 
l^bur  Over  them  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  let  them  stand  half  a  minute  with- 
out stirring,  then  drain  off  the  water,  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  and  set  it  away 
to  cool;  when  given  to  the  patient,  dilute  well,  so  that  the  acid  taste  is  very 
alight.    Acid- fruits  should  be  eaten  early  in  the  day.    Above  all,  it  should 
be  remembered,  that  it  is  not  the  nourishment  which  food  contains,  but 
thai  which  the  stomach  can  assimilate^  that  builds  up;  a  sick  person  will  thrive 
on  what  would  not  sustain  a  well  man. 

It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  the  food  be  delicately  and  carefully 
administered,  and  this  should  never  be  left  to  servants.  It  should  be  made 
as  attractive  as  possible,  served  in  the  choicest  ware,  with  the  cleanest  of 
napkins,  and  the  brightest  of  silver.  If  tea  is  served,  it  should  be  freshly 
drawn,  in  a  dainty  cup,  with  a  block  of  white  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of 
sweet  cream.  Toast  should  be  thin,  symmetrical,  well  yellowed,  free  from 
crust,  and  just  from  the  fire.  Steak  should  be  a  cut  of  the  best  tenderloin, 
delicately  broiled,  and  served  with  the  nicest  of  roasted  potatoes.  The  atten- 
tion given  to  these  simple  matters  is,  in  many  cases,  worth  more  than  the 
physician's  prescriptions. 

The  craving  for  tea  and  coffee  is  almost  universal  with  the  sick.  A  moder- 
ate quantity  is  a  great  restorative;  but  an  excess,  especially  of  coffee,  im- 
pairs digestion.  Neither  should  be  given  after  five  in  the  afternoon,  as 
they  increase  excitement  and  cause  sleeplessness ;  but  sleeplessness  from  ex- 
haustion in  the  early  morning  is  often  relieved  by  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee. 
The  patient's  taste  will  decide  which  should  be  used.  In  cases  of  thirst, 
the  physician  will  prescribe  what  other  drink  should  be  given  to  satisfy  it 
Cocoa  is  not  often  craved  by  the  sick,  and  possesses  no  stimulating  qualities. 
Crust-coffee  is  very  nourishing. 

A  very  simple  means  of  refreshing  the  nurse,  and  a  valuable  disinfectant, 
if  the  nature  of  the  invalid's  complaint  does  not  forbid  it — that  is  seldom 
the  case — is  to  put  some  pure,  fresh-ground  coffee  on  a  saucer,  or  other  dish, 
and  iix  the  center  place  a  very  small  piece  of  camphor-gum,  and  touch  a 
match  to  it.  As  the  gum  bums,  allow  sufficient  coffee  to  consume  to  per« 
vade  the  atmosphere  with  the  aroma;  it  is  wonderful  in  its  invigorating 
•ffects. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  567 

The  following  recipe  makes  a  deliciona,  refreshing  and  cooling  wash  for 
the  sick-room : 

Take  of  rosenuiry,  wormwood,  lavender,  rue,  sage  and  mint  a  lai^  hand* 
ful  of  each.  Place  in  a  stone  jar,  and  turn  over  it  one  gallon  of  strong  cider 
vinegar,  cover  closely,  and  keep  near  the  fire  for  four  days;  then  strain,  and 
add  one  ounce  of  pounded  camphor-gum.    Bottle  and  keep  tightly  corked. 

There  is  a  French  legend  connected  with  this  preparation  (called  vinaigrt 
a  qiuUre  voleiirs).  Burlng  the  plague  at  Marseilles,  a  band  of  robben  plun- 
dered the  dying  and  the  dead  without  injury  to  themselves.  They  were  im- 
prisoned, tried  and  condemned  to  die,  but  were  pardoned  on  condition  of 
disclosing  the  secret  whereby  they  could  ransack  houses  infected  with  the 
terrible  scouiige.  They  gave  the  above  recipe.  Another  mode  of  using  it,  is 
to  wash  the  face  and  hands  with  it  before  exposing  one's  self  to  any  infec- 
tion. It  is  very  aromatic  and  refreshing  in  the  sick-room ;  so,  if  it  can  ac- 
complish nothing  more,  it  is  of  great  value  to  nurses. 

FOOD  FOB  THE  SICK. 

Crust  Coffee. — ^Toast  bread  very^  brown,  pour  on  boiling  water,  strain  and 
add  cream  and  sugar  and  nutmeg,  if  desirea. 

Cream  Soup. — One  pint  boiling  water,  half  tea-cup  cream;  add  broken 
pieces  of  toasted  bread  and  a  little  salt. 

Wine  Whey. — One  pint  of  boiling  milk,  two  wine-elasses  of  wine,  boil  a 
moment,  stirring  well ;  take  out  the  curd,  sweeten  and  flavor  the  whey. 

Raspberry  Relish. — To  each  pint  of  berry  juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar. 
Let  it  stand  over  night;  next  morning  boil  ten  minutes,  ana  bottle  for  use. 

Parched  Rice. — Cook  in  custard-kettle  a  half  cup  parched  rice  in  one 
pint  boiling  salted  water;  when  done  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Alum  Whey. — Mix  half  ounce  ^wdered  alum  with  one  pint  sweet  milk, 
strain  artd  add  sugar  and  nutmeg;  it  is  good  in  hemorrhages,  and  sometimes 
for  colic. 

Sago  Custard. — Soak  two  table-spoons  sago  in  a  tumbler  of  water  an  hour 
or  more,  then  boil  in  same  water  until  clear,  and  add  a  tumbler  of  sweet 
milk  ;  when  it  boils,  add  sugar  to  taste,  then  a  beaten  egg  and  flavoring. 

Baked  Milk. — Bake  two  quarts  milk  for  eight  or  ten  nours  in  a  moderate 
oven,  in  a  jar  covered  with  writing  paper,  tied  down.  It  will  then  be  as 
thick  as  cream,  and  may  be  used  by  weak  persons. 

Butter-milk  Stew. — Boil  one  pint  butter-milk,  add  small  lump  butter, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Some  add  a  tea-spoon  of  ginger  and  honey  instead  oi 
sugar. 

Chicken  Broth. — ^Take  the  first  and  second  joints  of  a  chicken,  boil  in 
one  quart  of  water  till  very  tender,  and  season  with  a  very  little  salt  and 
pepper. 

Ego  Gruel. — Beat  the  volk  of  an  egg  with  a  table-spoon  of  sugar,  beating 
the  white  separately;  add  a  tea-cup  ofboiling  water  to  the  yolk,  then  stir  in 
the  white,  and  add  any  seasoning;  good  for  a  cold. 

Tamarind  Whey. — ^Mix  an  ounce  of  tamarind  pulp  with  a  pint  of  milk, 
strain  and  sweeten.  Or,  simply  stir  a  table-spoon  of  tamarinds  into  a  pint 
of  water. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Broths  for  the  Sick.— After  pouring  in  dish, 
pass  clean  white  wrapping-paper  quickly  over  the  top  of  broth,  using  sev- 
eral pieces,  till  all  grease  is  removed. 

Sassafras  Drink.— Take  the  pith  of  sassafras  boughs,  break  in  small 
pieces  and  let  soak  in  cold  water  till  the  water  becomes  glutinous.  This  is 
good  nourishment,  and  much  relished. 

Pearled  Wheat  Puddiku.— One  pint  of  wheat,  one  half  gallon  new  milk, 


568  FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK. 

sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  bake  one  hour.    This  is  a  delicious  and  simple 
pudding. 

Raw  Beef. — Chop  fresh,  lean  beef  (the  best  steak  or  roast)  very  fine, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  between  thin  slices  of  Graham  or 
white  buttered-bread.    Tins  is  a  very  nutritious  diet. 

Raw  Bebf  Tea. — Cut  up  lean,  fresh  meat,  soak  eight  or  ten  hours  in  a 
umull  quantity  of  cold  water.  This  is  good  after  severe  ca.ses  of  typhoid 
fever. 

A  Self-holder  for  a  Spoon. — In  dropping  medicine  into  a  spoon,  place 
the  handle  between  the  leaves  of  a  closed  book  lying  on  the  table,  and  then 
both  liands  may  be  used  in  dropping  the  mixture. 

8KA-.MOSS  Farine. — l)essert-.spoon  of  sea-moss  farine,  quart  boiling  water; 
steep  a  few  minutes,  sweet4'n  and  flavor  with  lemon  (leaving  out  rinds). 
This  is  a  very  pleasant  drink  and  is  good  for  colds. 

Jkllice. — C)ne-half  tea-spoon  of  currant,  lemon  or  crauberry  jelly  put  info 
a  goblet,  beat  well  with  two  table-spoons  water,  till  up  with  ice-water,  and  you 
have  a  refreshing  drink  for  a  fever  patient. 

Fever  Drink.— Pour  cold  water  on  wheat  bran,  let  boil  half  an  hour, 
strain  and  add  sugar  and  lemon-juice.  Pour  boiling  water  on  flax-seed,  let 
stand  till  it  is  ropy,  pour  into  hot  lemonade  and  drink. 

Barley  Water. — Add  two  ounces  pearl  barley  to  half  pint  boiling  water; 
let  simmer  five  minutes,  drain  and  add  two  quarts  boiling  water;  add  two 
ounces  sliced  figs,  and  two  ounces  stoned  raisins;  boil  until  reduced  to  a 
quart;  strain  for  drink. 

Beef-Tea  Soup. — To  one  pint  of  *'beef  essence"  (made  in  a  bottle  as 
directed  in  recipe  on  a  succeeding  page),  quite  hot,  add  a  tea-cup  of  the  best 
cream,  well  heated,  into  which  the  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg  has  been  previously 
stirred,  mix  carefully  together,  and  season  slightly,  and  serve. 

To  Prevent  Wearin(^  Through  the  Skin  when  Bed-Ridden. — Apply  to 
tender  parts  of  the  body  with  a  feather,  a  mixture  made  by  beating  to  a 
strong  froth,  the  white  of  an  egg,  dropping  in  while  beating  two  tea-spoons 
spirits  of  wine.     Bottle  for  use. 

To  Drop  Medicine. — Shake  the  bottle  so  as  to  moisten  the  cork.  With 
the  wet  end  of  the  cork  moisten  the  edges  of  the  mouth  of  the  bottle,  then, 
holding  the  cork  under  the  mouth,  let  the  fluid  pass  over  the  cork  in  drop- 
ping. 

Vegetable  Soup. — ^Two  tomatoes,  two  potatoes,  two  onions,  and  one  table- 
spoon rice ;  boil  the  whole  in  one  quart  of  water  for  one  hour,  season  with 
salt,  dip  dry  toast  in  this  till  quite  soft,  and  eat;  this  may  be  used  when 
animal  food  is  not  allowed. 

Currant  Shrub. — Make  the  same  as  jelly,  but  boil  only  ten  minutes; 
when  cool,  bottle  and  cork  tight,  (see  directions  for  canned  fruits).  Raspberry, 
strawberry  and  blackberry  shrubs  are  made  in  the  same  way ;  when  used, 
put  in  two-thirds  ice-water. 

Oat-meal  Blanc-mange. — A  delicious  blanc-mange  is  made  by  stirring 
two  heaping  table-spoons  of  oat-meal  into  a  little  cold  water,  then  stir  with 
a  ouart  of  boiling  milk,  flavor  and  pour  into  molds  to  cool,  when  cream  or 
jelly  may  be  eaten  w^ith  it. 

Mulled  Buttermilk. — Put  on  good  buttermilk,  and  when  it  boils,  add 
the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Let  boil  up  and  serve.  Or,  stir  into  boiling 
buttermilk  thickening  made  of  cold  buttermilk  and  flour.  This  is  excellent 
for  convalescing  patients. 

Oat-meal  Gruel. — Put  two  heaping  table-spoons  oatrmeal  in  one  quart  cold 
water,  stir  till  it  commences  to  boil,  then  cook  one  hour,  Stirring  occasionally ; 
do  not  let  it  scorch ;  season  with  salt,  sugar,  and  any  spice  desired.  For 
infants  and  very  sick  patients  it  must  be  strained,  and  not  sailed. 

Broiled  Chicken,  Quail,  Squirrel  or  Woodcock. — Any  of  these  must 
be  tender.  Take  the  breast  of  the  first  two,  or  the  thighs  of  the  others; 
place  on  hot  coals  or  on  a  broiler,  turning  often  to  prevent  burning.    Whftii 


FOOD  FOR  iTHE  SICK.  569 

done,  remove  the  burned  parts,  if  any,  season  slightly  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve  at  once. 

Arrowroot  Custard. — One  table-spoon  of  arrowroot,  one  pint  of  milk. 
one  egg,  two  table-spoons  sugar;  mix  the  arrowroot  with  a  little  of  the  cola 
milk ;  put  the  rest  of  milk  on  the  fire  and  boil,  and  stir  in  the  arrowroot 
and  egg  and  sugar,  well  beaten  together;  scald  and  i)Our  into  cups  to  cool; 
any  flavoring  the  invalid  prefers  may  be  added. 

Cinnamon  Tea. — To  a  half-pint  fresh,  new  milk  add  stick  or  ground  cin- 
namon enough  to  tlavor,  and  white  sugar  to  taste ;  bring  to  boiling  point, 
and  take  either  warm  or  cold.  Excellent  for  diarrhoea  in  adults  or  chil- 
dren. A  few  drops  or  a  tea-spoon  of  brandy  may  be  added,  if  the  case 
demands. 

Tapioca  Jelly. — One  half  pint  tapioca,  one  quart  water,  juice  and  some 
of  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon ;  soak  the  tapioca  for  three  or  four  hours  in  the 
water,  sweeten  it  and  boil  for  one  hour  in  a  custard-kettle,  or  until  quite  clear, 
stirring  it  often.  When  almost  done,  stir  in  the  lemon,  and  when  sufficiently" 
cooked,  pour  into  molds.     Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

Saoo  Jelly-pudding. — Wash  thoroughly  one  tea-cup  of  sago,  cook  it  in 
three  pints  of  water  fifteen  or  twenty  imnutes,  till  perfectly  clear,  add  a 
very  little  salt;  stir  in  half  a  jelly-glass  of  currant,  grape  or  other  jelly 
ancl  two  spoonfuls  sugar.  Mold  and  serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar ;  or, 
eat  warm. 

Graham  Gems  for  Invalids. — Mix  Graham  flour  with  half  milk  and 
half  water,  add  a  little  salt,  beat,  making  the  batter  thiti  enough  to  pour; 
have  the  gera-pan  very  hot,  grease  it,  fill  as  quickly  as  possible  and  return 
immediately  to  a  hot  oven ;  bake  about  thirty  minutes.  Practice  will  teach 
just  the  proper  consistency  of  the  batter,  and  the  best  temperature  of  the 
oven.    It  will  not  be  good  unless  well  beaten. 

Panada. — Take  two  richest  crackers,  pour  on  boiling  water,  let  stand  a  few 
minutes,  beat  up  an  egg,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  stir  all  together;  grate  in 
nutmeg  and  add  brandy  or  wine  to  suit  the  invalid.  Or,  break  in  a  pint  bowl 
toasted  bread  and  pour  over  boiling  water,  adding  a  small  lump  of  butter, 
two  table-spoons  wine,  brandy  or  whisky;  sweeten  to  taste  ana  flavor  with 
nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — Pour  over  two  quarts  of  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar, 
one  quart  of  very  best  vinegar;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  strain,  and 
pour  liquor  over  fresh  fruit,  and  let  stand  in  the  same  way;  allow  one  pound 
sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice;  put  into  a  stone  jar  and  set  in  pot  of  boiling  wat«r 
one  hour;  skim  well,  put  into  bottles,  cork  and  seal  tight.  Diluted  with 
water  this  is  very  nice  for  the  sick.    Toasted  bread  may  be  eaten  with  it. 

Rice  Jelly. — Mix  one  heaping  table-spoon  of  rice-flour  with  cold  water 
until  it  is  a  smooth  paste,  add  a  scant  pint  of  boiling  water,  sweeten  with 
loaf-sugar;  boil  until  quite  clear.  If  the  jelly  is  intended  for  a  patient 
with  summer  complaint,  stir  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon ;  if  for  one  with 
fever,  flavor  with  lemon  juice,  and  mold.  Rice-water  is  made  in  the  same 
manner,  by  using  twice  the  quantity  of  boiling  water. 

Royal  Strawberry  Acid. — Take  three  pounds  ripe  strawberries,  two 
ounces  citric  acid,  and  one  quart  of  water ;  dissolve  the  acid  in  the  water, 
and  pour  it  over  the  berries;  let  them  stand  in  a  cool  place  twenty-four 
hours,  draw  off,  and  pour  in  three  pounds  more  of  berries,  and  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  Add  to  the  liquor  its  own  weight  of  sugar,  boil  three  or 
four  minutes  each  day  for  three  days,  then  cork  tightly  and  seal.  Keep  In 
a  dry  and  cool  place. 

Strawberry  Acid. — Dissolve  five  ounces  tartaric  acid  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  and  pour  it  upon  twelve  pounds  of  strawberries  in  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle; let  it  simmer  forty-eight  hours;  strain  it,  taking  care  not  to  bruise  the 
fruit.  To  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  and  stir 
until  dissolved,  then  leave  it  a  few  days.  Bottle  and  cork  lightly ;  if  a  slight 
fermentation  takes  place  leave  the  cork  out  a  few  days.  Then  cork,  seal 
aud  keep  bottles  in  a  cold  place. 

36 


570  FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK, 

Black BBRRT  Wine. — ^To  every  gallon  of  bruised  berries,  add  half  a  gal- 
lon of  soft  cold  water;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  strain.  To  every 
gallon  juice,  add  three  pounds  sugar;  lili  a  cask  and  let  it  remain  witlioat 
n:  >ving  or  shaking  until  it  has  fermented,  which  it  will  have  done  in  six 
weeks.  Put  over  the  mouth  of  the  cask  a  thin  piece  of  muslin.  Wben 
fermentation  has  ceased,  draw  off  the  wine  and  bottle  without  shaking  the 
cask.    Cork  and  seal. 

Oat-meal  Cakes.— Take  e<^ual  parts  fine  oat-meal  and  water;  mix  and 
pour  into  a  pan  about  one- third  of  an  incli  deep  and  bake  half  an  hour,  or 
until  crisp  and  slightly  brown ;  or  make  half  an  inch  thick  and  bake  soft  like 
a  johnny-cake ;  or  if  the  oven  is  not  hot  enough  to  bake,  pour  it  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan, cover  it  and  bake  it  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  dishing  it  when  brown 
on  tlie  bottom.  It  is  not  good  cold.  If  any  be  left,  warm  it  up  and  it  is  al- 
most as  good  as  new. 

Oat-meal  Pie-crust. —This  is  made  exactly  like  the  dough  for  crackers; 
it  may  be  rolled  a  verjr  little  thinner.  It  bakes  quickly,  so  that  care  must 
be  taken  not  to  scorch  it  in  cooking  the  contents  of  the  pie.  It  is  not  suited 
for  an  upper  crust,  but  does  admirably  for  pies  that  require  but  one  crust. 
It  is  just  the  thing  for  those  who  do  not  think  shortened  pie-crusts  whole- 
some, and  it  is  good  enough  for  any  one.  One  can  eat  it  with  as  much  im- 
punity as  so  much  oat-meal  mush  and  fruit  sauce. 

Mutton  Broth. — Put  two  pounds  of  mutton  and  two  quarts  cold  water  to 
boil,  add  one  table-spoon  rice  washed  carefully  through  several  waters.    Let 
it  boil  till  the  meat  will  leave  the  bone,  and  the  rice  is  cooked  to  a  liquid 
mass.    Take  from  the  fire,  season  with  a  little  salt;  skin,  if  preferred.    If 
for  a  patient  w^ith  flux  leave  on  all  the  fat  (the  more  fat  the  better). 

This  is  also  a  nice  way  to  make  chicken  broth.  Take  a  chicken  size  of  a 
quail  and  prepare  as  above. 

Uncooked  Kgo. — This  is  quite  palatable,  and  very  strengthening,  and 
may  be  prepared  in  a  variety  of  ways.  Break  an  egg  into  a  goblet  and  beat 
thoroughly,  add  a  tea-spoon  sugar,  and'  after  beating  a  moment  add  a  tea- 
spoon or  two  of  brandv  or  port  wtine ;  beat  well  and  add  as  much  rich  milk, 
or  part  cream  and  milk,  as  there  is  of  the  mixture.  Or,  omit  brandy  and 
flavor  with  any  kind  of  spice;  or,  milk  need  not  be  added,  or  the  egg  may 
be  beaten  separately,  stirring  in  lightly  the  w^ell-whipped  whites  at  the  lasL 

Cracked  Wheat  Pudding. — To  one  quart  new  or  unskimmed  milk  add 
one-third  cup  cracked  wheat,  same  of  sugar  (or  a  little  more  if  preferredX  a 
little  salt  and  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon.  Place  in  moderate  oven  and 
bake  two  hours  or  longer.  When  about  half  done  stir  in  the  crust  already 
formed,  and  it  will  form  another  sufficiently  brown.  When  done  the  wheat 
will  be  very  soft,  and  the  pudding  of  a  creamy  consistency.  It  can  be  eaten 
hot  or  cold,  and  is  nice  for  invalids.  A  handful  of  raisins  added  is  consid- 
ered an  improvement  by  some. 

Broiled  Beefsteak. — Many  times  a  small  piece  of  "tenderloin  "  or  "por- 
terhouse" is  more  wholesome,  for  an  invalid,  than  broths  and  teas;  and  with 
this  may  be  served  a  potato,  roasted  in  the  ashes,  dressed  with  sweet  cream 
(or  a  little  butter)  ana  salt,  or  nicely  cooked  tomatoes.  Have  the  steak  from 
half  an  inch  to  an  inch  thick,  broil  carefully  two  or  three  minutes  over  hot 
coals,  turning  often  with  a  knife  and  fork,  so  as  not  to  pierce  it  When 
done,  put  on  a  small  dish,  season  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  smaU 
bit  of  butter,  garnish  with  the  potato,  and  serve  hoi. 

Stewed  Oysters. — Remove  all  bits  of  shell  from  a  half  dozen  frtth^  select 
oysters,  place  in  a  colander,  pour  over  a  tea-cup  of  water,  drain,  place  liquor, 
drained  off  in  a  porcelain-lined  sauce-pan,  let  come  to  boiling  point,  skim 
well ;  pour  off  into  another  heated  dish,  all  except  the  last  spoonful  which 
will  contain  sediment  and  bits  of  shell  which  may  have  been  overlooked, 
wipe  out  sauce-pan,  return  liquor,  add  oysters,  let  come  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  a  small  lump  of  grK)d  butter,  a  tea-spoon  of  crackeivdust,  a  very  little 
oayenne  pepper  and  i^t,  and  a  half  tea-cup  fresh,  sweet  cream. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK.  571 

To  Make  Kitmyss. — ^Take  three  quarts  of  good,  rich,  sweet  milk;  one 
qnart  of  hot  water,  in  which  dissolve  one-half  pint  sugar ;  add  the  hot 
water  to  the  milk;  when  this  mixture  is  lukewarm  add  three  table-spoons  of 
brewer's  yeast;  set  in  a  moderately  warm  place,  stir  often,  and,  when  it 
begins  to  sparkle  (which  will  be  in  about  one  and  a  half  hours  J,  put  it  into 
strong  bottles  and  cork  tight;  put  in  a  cool  place  and  in  eight  hours  it  will 
be  ready  for  use.  Procure  a  champagne  tap  (cost  $1),  and  draw  the  best 
kumyss  ever  made. 

Prepared  Flour  for  Summer  Complaint. — Take  a  double  handful  of 
flour,  tie  up  tightly  in  cloth  and  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  boil  from 
three  to  six  hours,  take  out,  remove  the  cloth,  and  you  will  have  a  hard, 
round  ball.  Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  and  when  wanted  for  use,  prepare 
by  placing  some  sweet  milk  (new  always  preferred^  to  boil,  and  grating  into 
the  milk  from  the  ball  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  you  desire,  stirnng  it 
just  before  removing  from  the  stove  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon ;  this  gives  it 
A  pleasant  flavor;  put  a  little  salt  into  the  milk.  Very  good  for  children 
having  summer  complaint. 

Milk  Porridoe. — Place  on  stove  in  skillet  one  pint  new  sweet  milk  and  a 
very  little  pinch  of  salt;  when  it  boils  have  ready  sifted  flour,  and  sprinkle 
"With  one  hand  into  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  while  with  a  spoon. 
Keep  adding  Hour  until  it  is  about  the  consistency  of  thick  molasses;  eat 
warm  with  a  little  butter  and  su^ar.  This  is  excellent  for  children  suffering 
with  summer  complaint.  Or,  mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  until  a 
smooth  paste,  and  then  stir  into  the  boiled  milk.  Or,  break  an  egg  into  the 
dry  flour  and  rub  it  with  the  hands  until  it  is  all  in  fine  crumbs  (size  of  a 
grain  of  wheat),  then  stir  this  mixture  into  the  boiling  milk. 

Bran  Biscuits. — ^Take  cup  bran  (as  prepared  by  Davis  &  Taylor,  24  Canal 
Street,  Boston),  five  cups  sifted  flour;  scald  the  bran  at  tea-time  with  half 

Eint  boiling  water;  when  cool,  pour  it  into  the  middle  of  the  flour,  add  one- 
alf  cup  good  yeast  (or  part  of  a  yeast-cake,  soaked  till  light),  one  tea-spoon 
salt,  and  two  table-spoons  sugar ;  wet  with  new  milk  into  soft  dough,  much 
thicker  than  batter.  Let  it  stand,  covered  closely,  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
In  the' morning,  spoon  into  hot  gem  or  patty-pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
to  a  brown  crust.  Part  of  the  dough  may  be  baked  in  a  small  loaf  to  be 
eat«n  warm.  (It  can  be  made  with  water  by  using  a  little  butter,  but  is  not 
so  good.)    Any  remaining  may  be  split  for  ainner  or  toasted  for  tea. 

Oat-meal  Wafers. — Use  equal  parts  water  and  oat-meal,  make  as  thin  as 
you  can  shake  it  out  on  the  bottom  of  pan,  so  that  when  done  it  will  not  be 
thicker  than  a  knife-blade  anywhere,  and  in  most  places  you  can  see  day- 
light through  it.  Bake  very  slowly  until  quite  dry,  watching  that  it  may  not 
scorch.  In  taking  out  it  will  probably  break  into  many  fragments,  but  they 
will  be  delicious  ones — not  shapely  for  the  table,  but  so  temptingly  savored 
that  any  delicate  person  who  can  eat  at  all  will  find  them  satisfying,  nour- 
ishing, and  easily  digested — ^far  better  than  the  standard  sick  dish  called 
gruel.  As  for  the  well  folks,  put  your  wafers  out  of  the  way  if  you  expect 
to  find  any  of  them  for  the  invalid's  next  meal. 

Blackberry  Cordial. — Put  a  half  bushel  of  blackberries  in  a  preserv- 
ing-kettle and  cook  until  scalded  through  well;  strain  and  press  out  all  the 
juice;  put  juice  in  kettle  With  the  following  spices  well  broken  up  and  put 
into  a  bag ;  one-quarter  pound  allspice,  two  ounces  cinnamon-bark,  two 
ounces  cloves,  and  two  nutmegs ;  add  loaf-sugar,  about  one  pound  to  every 
quart  of  juice  or  more  if  preferred,  and  cook  slowly  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
remove  from  the  fire,  let  cool  a  little,  and  add  good  pure  brandy  in  the  pro- 
portion of  one  pint  to  every  three  pints  of  juice.  A  smaller  quantity  may 
De  made,  using  the  same  proportions.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  di- 
arrhoea and  other  diseases  of  the  bowels. 

Good  Toast. — Toast  slices  of  bread,  scrape  off  any  blackened,  charred 
portion ;  lay  on  a  soup-plate,  pour  on  cold  milk  enough  to  wet  through,  and 
leave  half  an  inch  or  so  in  depth  of  milk  in  the  plate.    Good  milk,  with  a 


572  FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK. 

little  extra  cream  in  it,  is  all  the  better,  ami  a  very  trirte  of  salt  improves 
it.  Put  over  the  toast  thus  ^)repared,  an  inverted  large  earthen  bowl,  or  tin 
basin,  large  enough  to  cover  it  and  set  down  u|>on  the  plate  all  round.  Put 
this  in  a  warm,  not  very  hot,  stove  oven,  two,  three,  or  more  hours  in  ad- 
vance. The  milk  will  cook  an<l  evaporate  and  it.s  substance  be  condensed 
in  the  toast,  while  the  cover  will  keep  the  toai<t  moist.  It  is  then  very  good 
without  butler,  though  a  little  may  be  used  if  desired. 

Beef  Bkoth. — Cut  in  snuill  nieces  one  pound  of  good  lean  beef;  put  on 
in  two  quarts  of  cold  water  and  boil  slowly,  keeping  it  well  covered,  one  and 
one-halt  liours;  then  add  half  a  tea-cup  tapioca,  wliich  lias  been  soaked 
three-(iuartcrs  of  an  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover,  and  boil  half  an  hour 
long«^r.  SSonie  add,  with  the  tapi(>ca,  a  small  bit  of  parsley,  and  a  slice  or 
two  of  (Jiiion.  Strain  before  serving,  seasoning  sliglitly  with  pepper  and 
salt.  It  is  more  strengthening  to  add,  just  before  serving,  a  .soft  poached 
egg.  Kice  may  Ik?  used  instead  of  taiuoca,  straining  the  broth,  and  adding 
one  or  two  table-spoons  rice  (soaked  for  a  short  time),  and  then  boiling  half 
an  hour. 

Meat  for  Ixvalids. — The  following /netluxl  of  rendering  raw  meat  pal- 
atable to  invalids  is  given  by  good  authority.  To  8.7  ounces  of  raw  meat, 
from  the  loin,  add  2.()  ounces  slielled  sweet  almonds.  .17  ounces  shelled 
bitter  almonds,  and  2.8  ounces  white  sugar — these  to  \>e  beaten  together  in 
a  marble  mortar  to  a  uniform  pulj),  and  the  fibers  separated  by  a  strainer. 
The  pulp,  wliich  has  a  rosy  hue,  and  a  very  agreeable  tjusie,  does  not  at  all 
remind  one  of  meat,  and  may  be  kej)!  fn-sh  for  a  considerable  time,  even 
in  summer,  in  a  drv,  cool  place.  Yolk  (;f  egg  may  he  added  to  it.  From 
this  pulp,  or  directly  from  tlie  above  substince,  an  emulsion  may  be  pre- 
pared which  will  he  rendered  still  more  nutritious  by  adding  milk. 

Articles  for  the  Sick-room. — A  rubber  bag,  holding  two  quarts,  to  be 
one-half  or  tlirm;-quarters  filled  with  Iiot  water,  and  placed  about  the  patient 
where  needed — under  head  in  neuralgia,  around  the  side  in  liver-congestion, 
etc.;  or  can  ho  filled  witli  very  cold  water  in  cases  needing  such  applications 
— is  very  tlexihle  and  agreeable,  and  can  be  used  where  a  boap-stone  or  bottle 
would  hurt,     rriee.  ^li.lK). 

A  pair  of  very  long.  l(U)se  stockings,  knit  of  Saxony  wool,  or  any  soft 
yarn,  without  heels,  to  draw  on  towanU  morning  in  fever  cases,  or  to  keep 
patient  warm  when  she  is  up;  they  might  come  half  way  between  the 
Knee  and  thigh.  Every  housekeeper  should  have  a  pair  to  be  used  in  cases 
of  sickness. 

Oat-meal  Trackers. — "Wet  one  pint  fine  oat-meal  with  one  gill  water; 
work  it  a  few  minutes  with  a  spoon,  until  you  can  make  it  up  into  a  mass; 
place  on  a  hoard  well  covered  with  dry  oat-meal;  mak(»  as  comjKict  as  you 
can,  and  roll  out  carefully  to  one-sixth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into 
squares  with  a  knife.  Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven,  or  merely  scald  at  first; 
and  then  let  them  stand  in  the  oven  until  they  dry  out.  These  are  difficult 
to  make  u))  at  first,  but  you  soon  learn  to  handle  the  dough  and  to  watch 
oven  so  that  they  will  not  scorch.  These  are  excellent  for  all  the  purpost»g 
of  crackers,  and  if  kept  dry,  or  if  packed  in  oat-meal,  they  will  last  good 
for  months.  This  is  one  form  of  the  Scotch  "bannock."  A  rich  addition 
is  two  heaping  spoonsful  of  ground  dessicated  ^ocoanut 

Old-time  Food  for  Convalescent.s. — Roast  g(»od  potatoes  in  hot  ashea 
and  coals;  when  done,  put  in  a  coarse  doth  and  s<}ueeze  with  the  hand,  and 
take  out  the  inside  on  a  plate.  Put  a  slice  of  good  pickled  jwrk  on  a  stick 
three  or  four  feet  long,  hold  before  a  wood  fire  until  it  cooks  slightly,  then 
dip  into  a  pan  of  water  and  let  it  drip  on  the  potato  tosea.son  it;  repeat  until 
the  meat  is  nicely  cooked  on  one  side,  then  turn  the  other,  dip  in  water,  etc. 
Wlien  done  place  on  plate  beside  the  potato,  serve  with  a  slice  of  toast  dressed 
with  hot  water  and  a  little  vinegar  and  salt,  or  use  sweet  cream  instead  of 
vinegar.  A  cup  of  sage  tea,  made  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  a  few  leaves 
of  sage  and  allowing  it  to  stand  a  few  minutes,  served  with  cream  and  sugar. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  573 

Is  very  nice ;  or  crust  coffee,  or  any  herb  tea  is  good.    Food  prepared  in  thi» 
way  obviates  the  use  of  butter. 

Beef-Tea. — Cut  pound  best  lean  steak  in  small  pieces,  place  in  glass  iruitr 
isLT  {a. perfect  one),  cover  tightly  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water;  heat  gradu- 
ally to  boil,  and  continue  this  steadily  three  or  four  hours,  until  the  meat  is 
like  white  ra^  and  the  juice  thoroughly  extracted ;  season  with  very  little 
salt,  and  stram  through  a  wire  strainer.  Serve  either  warm  or  cold.  To 
prevent  jar  toppling  over,  tie  a  string  around  the  top  part,  and  hang  over  a 
stick  laid  across  the  top  of  pot.  When  done,  set  kettle  off  stove  and  let  cool 
before  removing  the  jar,  and  in  this  way  prevent  breakage.  Or,  when  beef- 
tea  is  wanted  for  immediate  use,  place  in  a  common  pint  bowl  (yellow  ware), 
add  very  little  water,  cover  with  saucer,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  if  in 
danger  of  burning  add  a  little  more  water.  To  make  beef-tea  more  palatable 
for  some  patients,  freeze  it. 

CoRN-MEAL  Gruel. — Add  to  three  pints  boiling  water  two  table-spoons  corn- 
meal,  stirred  up  with  a  little  cold  water;  add  a  pinch  of  saltand  cook  twenty 
minutes.  For  very  sick  persons,  let  it  settle,  pour  off  the  top,  and  ^ive  with- 
out other  seasoning.  For  convjilescents,  toast  a  piece  of  bread  nicely,  and 
put  in  the  gruel  with  one  or  two  table-spoons  sweet  cream,  a  little  sugar  and 
ginger,  or  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  When  a  laxative  diet  is  allowed  this  is  very 
nourishing.  Or,  take  a  pint  of  meal,  pour  over  it  a  quart  or  more  of  cold 
water,  stir  up,  let  settle  a  moment,^  and  i>our  off  tlie  water;  repeat  this  three 
times,  then  put  the  washed  meal  into  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  place 
where  it  will  boil;  cook  tliree  hours,  and  when  done  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
This  is  a  very  delicate  way  of  cooking,  and  it  may  be  eaten  with  or  without 
other  seasonmg.  This  is  an  old  and  very  valuable  recipe,  used  thirty  years 
ago  by  Dr.  Davenport,   of  Mi  I  ford  Center,  Ohio. 

Boiled  Flour  or  Flour  Ball. — Take  one  quart  good  flour;  tie  in  a  pud- 
ding-bag so  tightly  as  to  make  a  solid  mass ;  put  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water 
early  in  ihe  mornmg,  and  let  boil  until  bedtime;  take  out  atid  let  dry.  In 
the  morning,  peel  oti'  and  throw  away  the  thin  rind  of  dough,  and,  with  a 
nutmeg-grater,  grate  down  the  hard  dry  mass  into  a  powder.  Of  this  from 
one  to  three  tea-spoonfuls  may  be  used,  by  lirst  rubbing  it  into  a  paste  with 
a  little  milk,  then  adding  it  to  about  a  pint  of  milk,  and,  finally,  by  bringing 
the  whole  to  just  the  boiling-point.  Give  through  a  nursing-bottle.  For 
children  who. are  costive  use  bran-meal  or  unbolted  tiour  instead  of  white 
flour,  preparing  as  above  directed. 

Rice  Water. — Wash  four  table-spoons  of  rice ;  put  it  into  two  <iuarts  of 
water,  wliicli  boil  down  to  one  quart,  and  then  add  sugar  and  a  little  nut- 
meg. Tliis  makes  a  pleasant  drink.  A  pint  or  half  a  ])int  of  milk  added  to 
the  rice  water,  before  it  is  tAken  from  the  fire,  gives  a  nourishing  food  suita- 
ble for  cases  of  dianhea.  Sago,  tapioca,  barley,  or  cracked  corn  can  be  pre- 
pared in  the  same  manner. 

Oraii'Oeadb. — This  is  an  antiseptic  and  anti-diarrhea  remedy ;  try  it  Take 
of  dilute  sulphuric  acid,  concentrated  infusion  of  oranee-peel,  each,  twelve 
drachms;  of  syrup  of  orange-peel,  five  fluid  ounces;  add  two  imperial  gal- 
lons of  water.  Take  a  draught  of  a  large  wine-glassful.  It  is  an  excellent 
summer  beverage  for  the  South. 

Haw  Beef  for  Children.— Take  half  a  pound  of  juicy  beef,  free  from  any 
fat;  mince  it  very  finely;  then  rub  it  into  a  smooth  pulp  either  in  a  mortar 
or  with  an  ordinary  potato-ma.sher,  and  press  it  through  a  fine  sieve.  Sjjread 
a  little  out  upon  a* plate  and  sprinkle  over  it  some  salt,  or  some  sugar  jf  the 
child  prefers  it.  Give  it  alone  or  spread  upon  a  buttered  slice  of  stale  bread. 
It  makes  an  excellent  food  for  children  with  dysentery. 

37 


THE  ARTS  OF  THE  TOILET, 


Beauty  and  health  constitute  a  royal  inheritance.  The  child  horn  with 
such  a  heritage,  and  brought  up  by  a  mother  who  has  the  good  sense  to 
discard  soothing  syrups,  narcptics  and  cordials,  and  carefully  trains  ap  to 
cleanly  habits,  proper  exercise,  plenty  of  air  and  sunshine,  and  wholeaome 
food,  starts  in  life  with  a  capital  that  will  in  the  long  run  tip  the  balance 
against  the  largest  fortune  in  dollars.  To  keep  health  and  beauty,  or  to 
restore  it  when  lost,  it  is  necessary  to  observe  the  laws  of  health,  discarding 
quackery  and  panaceas  of  all  kinds  as  superstitions,  and  inventions  of 
the  devil.  Pure  air  and  plenty  of  it,  free  sunshine  and  plenty  of  it,  are 
better  restoratives  than  all  the  jiatent  medicines  under  the  sun.  Too  often 
the  doctor  brings  the  medicine  only  to  have  the  medicine  bring  the  doctor 
again.  The  sunlight  will  give  a  lady's  cheek  a  fresher  tinge  and  a  more 
delicate  complexion  tlian  all  the  French  powders  and  rouge  in  Paris. 

For  thb  Haib. — Wash  in  cold  sage-tea. 

Camphor — put  in  drawers  or  trunks  will  keep  away  mice. 

The  Nrck. — ^Too  tight  collars  and  neckerchiefe  are  apt  to  produce  perma» 
nent  swelling  of  the  tnroat. 

Cocoa  Butter. —Apply,  at  night,  to  face  and  hands,  and  wash  off  in  thm 
morning.    This  is  excellent  for  the  skin,  and  keeps  it  soft  and  clear. 

To  Clean  Light  Kids. — Put  the  glove  on  the  nand,  and  rub  thoroughly 
with  white  corn-meal,  using  a  piece  of  cotton  flannel. 

To  KEEP  Pearls  Brilliant. — Keep  in  common,  dry  magnesia,  instead  of 
the  cotton  wool  used  in  jewel  cases,  and  they  will  never  lose  their  brilliancy. 

Tonic  for  the  Hair. — ^Ounce  best  castor-oil,  two  ounces  each  of  French 
brandy  and  bay  rum ;  scent  with  rosemary  and  rose-geranium. 

To  (Jure  Chilblains.— Soak  feet  for  fifteen  minutes  in  warm  water,  put 
en  a  pair  of  rubbers,  without  stockings,  and  go  to  bed. 

Cement  for  Jet. — Use  shellac  to  join,  and  then  smoke  the  joints  to  mah« 
them  black. 

Mother's  Marks— should  never  be  interfered  with,  except  by  the  advic« 
of  a  physician. 

Tetter  or  Ringworm — of  the  face  is  caused  by  a  disordered  stomach, 
and  must  be  cured  by  proper  diet. 

Pimples— are  caused  by  improper  diet,  and  can  never  be  cured  except  by 
correcting  the  habits.    Cosmetics  only  injure. 

To  Restore  Color  to  Kid  Shoes. — Mix  a  small  quantity  of  good  polish 
blacking  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 

Hair  Oil. — Two  tea-spoons  each  of  castor  oil,  ammonia  and  glycerine; 
add  alcohol  enougli  to  cut  the  oil,  and  put  in  a  four-ounce  bottle  half  full  of 
rain-water.     Shake  before  using. 

Black  Heads. — To  remove  **  blrfck  heads  "  in  the  face,  place  over  the  black 
spot  the  hollow  end  of  a  watch-key,  and  press  firmly.    This  forces  the  foreign 
substance  out.  so  that  It  may  be  brushed  off.  and  is  a  cure. 
(574) 


THE  ARTS  OF  THE  TOILET.  576 

To  Keep  off  Mosquitoes. — Rub  exposed  parts  with  kerosene.  The  odor  is 
not  noticed  after  a  few  minutes,  and  children  especially  are  much  relieved 
by  its  use. 

The  Breath. — ^Nothing  makes  one  so  disagreeable  to  others  as  a  bad  breath. 
It  is  caused  by  bad  teeth,  diseased  stomach,  or  disease  of  the  nostrils. 
Neatness  and  care  of  the  health  will  prevent  and  cure  it. 

The  Skin  .4nd  Complexion. — Wasliing  in  cool,  but  not  excessively  cold, 
water,  and  general  cleanliness,  keeps  the  skin  healthy  and  the  complexion 
clear. 

Ivory  Blacking  for  Shoes.  —  Four  ounces  ivory-black,  three  ounces 
coarsest  sugar,  one  table-spoon  sweet-oil,  one  pint  small  beer;  mix  well 
together. 

Castor-oil  for  Shoes. — Take  a  tea-spoon  of  it  and  rub  in  thorouglily 
by  a  fire.  Do  this  when  the  shoes  are  new^  and  several  times  afterwards, 
and  they  will  last  twice  as  long. 

Dandruff.— One  ounce  flour  of  sulphur  to  one  quart  of  water.  Shake 
well  at  intervals,  for  a  few  hours,  and,  when  settled,  saturate  the  head  with 
the  clear  liquid  every  morning. 

For  Chapped  Hands,  Face  and  Lips. — ^Ten  drops  carbolic  acid  in  one 
ounce  glycerine;  apply  freely  at  night  Pure  mutton  tallow  is  also  ex- 
cellent. 

Cologne  Water. — ^Thirty  drops  each  oil  of  lavender,  cOl  of  beigamot,  oil 
of  lemon,  and  orange-flower  water,  half  pint  deodorizea  aloohoL  Cork  and 
shake  well. 

Corpulency. — An  excess  of  fat  is  a  disease.  To  reduce  the  excess,  eat 
little  or  no  butter,  fat  meat,  gravies,  sugar,  vegetables,  or  oUier  articles 
containing  large  amounts  of  starch  or  sugar. 

Dandruff  in  the  Hair.  — There  is  no  simpler  nor  better  remedy  for  this 
vexatious  appearance  (caused  by  a  dryness  of  the  skin)  than  a  wash  of  cam- 
phor and  borax — an  ounce  of  each  put  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  water, 
and  afterwards  rub  a  little  pure  oil  into  the  scalp. 

Moth  Patches — may  be  removed  from  the  face  bv  the  following  remedy : 
Into  a  pint  bottle  of  rum  put  a  table-spoon  of  nourof  sulphur.  Apply 
this  to  the  patches  once  a  day,  and  they  will  disappear  in  two  or  three 
weeks. 

Boston  Burnett  Powder  for  the  Face — Five  cents  worth  of  bay  rum, 
five  cents  worth  of  magnesia  snow-flake,  five  cents  worth  of  bergamoi^ 
five  cents  worth  of  oil  oi  lemon ;  mix  in  a  pint  bottle  and  fill  up  with 
rain-water. 

To  Clean  Jewelry.— Any  gold  jewelry  that  an  immersion  in  water  will 
not  injure,  can  be  beautifully  cleaned  by  shaking  it  well  in  a  bottle  nearly 
full  of  warm  soap-suds  to  which  a  little  prepared  chalk  has  been  added,  and 
afterwards  rinsing  it  in  clear,  cold  water,  and  wiping  it  on  a  towel. 

Moles.— To  remove,  moisten  a  stick  of  nitrate  of  silver,  touch  the  moles, 
and  they  will  turn  black  and  sore,  and  soon  they  will  dry  up  and  fall 
off  of  themselves.  If  they  do  not  entirely  go,  repeat.  It  is  better,  however, 
never  to  attempt  their  removal  without  consulting  a  physician. 

Warts. — Wash  with  water  saturated  with  common  washing  soda,  and  let 
dry  without  wiping:  repeat  frequently  until  they  disappear.  Or  pass  a  pin 
through  the  wart,  and  hold  one  end  of  it  over  the  flame  of  a  candle  or  lamp 
until  jthe  wart  fires  by  the  heat,  and  it  ^^ill  disappear. 

Stains  on  the  Hands — from  nitrate  of  silver,  may  be  removed  by  a  solu- 
tion of  chloride  of  lime.  Fruit  st^iins  are  removed  by  washing  the  hands 
without  soap,  and  holding  them  over  the  smoke  of  burning  matches  or  sul- 
phur. 

To  Remove  Sunburn. — Scrape  a  cake  of  brown  Windsor  soap  to  a  pow- 
der, add  one  ounce  each  of  eau  de  Cologne  and  lemon-juice;  mix  well  and 
form  into  c^kes.  This  removes  tan,  prevents  hands  from  chopping,  and 
makes  the  skin  soft  and  white. 


576  THE  ARTS  OF  THE  TOILET. 

Cold  Cream  fob  Chapped  Lips. — One-half  ounce  !»perniaceti,  twenty 
grains  white  wax.  two  ounces  pure  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  one  ounce  pure 
glycerine,  six  drops  oil  of  rose;  melt  first  three  ingredients  togetlier,  and, 
when  cooling,  add  the  glycerine  and  oil  of  rose,  stirring  until  cold. 

Bad  Breath— Bad  breath,  from  catarrh,  foul  stomach,  or  bad  teeth,  may 
be  temporarily  relieved  by  diluting  a  little  hromo  chlonilum  with  eight  or  ten 
parts  of  water,  and  using  it  as  a  gargle,  and  swallowing  a  few  drops  just 
Defore  going  out.  A  ])int  of  brouio  chiomlum  costs  fifty  cents,  but  a  small  vjal 
full  will  last  a  long  time. 

Fri'it  Stains  —  may  be  removed  from  the  fingers  in  the  following  manner: 
Mix  together  half  an  ounce  of  cream  tartar  and  half  an  ounce  of  powtiered 
salt  of  sorrel;  apply  a  solution  of  this  to  the  fingers,  and  the  stains  will  dis- 
appear. Diluted  sulphuric  acid  may  be  used,  but  care  should  be  taken  that 
none  of  it  touches  any  fabric,  as  the  acid  will  destroy  it. 

Flesh  Worms. — Black  specks  on  the  nose  disfigure  the  face.  Remove  by 
washing  thorouglily  in  temd  water,  rubbing  with  a  towel,  and  applying  with 
a  soft  fiannel  a  lotion  maue  of  three  ounces  of  cologne  and  half  an  ounce  of 
liquor  of  potash.  Or  press  out  by  putting  the  hollow  end  of  a  watch-key 
over  it. 

Lips  or  Hands  Ghapped  by  cold  weather  or  wind,  should  be  rubbed  with 
glycerine  generally  when  about  to  be  exposed  to  the  air,  or  rubbed  with 
honey  after  washing.  Never  kiss  the  lips  of  persons  not  in  health,  as  dis- 
ease is  sometimes  contracted  in  this  way,  as  well  as  by  the  use  of  towels, 
cups  or  tumblers  used  by  unhealthy  persons. 

Bay  Rum. — Ten  cents  worth  of  magnesia,  two  quarts  each  of  soft  water 
and  alcohol,  one  ounce  oil  of  bay.  I)isi>olve  magnesia  in  rain-water,  tlien 
add  other  ingredients.  Wrap  filtering  paper  in  form  of  a  funnel,  and  filter 
carefully  through  into  a  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  When  used,  dilute  with 
rain-water  to  whatever  strength  desired. 

Leanness — Is  caused  generally  by  lack  of  power  in  the  digestive  organs 
to  digest  and  assimilate  the  fat-producing  elements  of  food.  First  restore 
digestion,  take  plenty  of  sleep,  drink  all  the  water  the  stomach  will  bear  in 
the  morning  on  rising,  take  moderate  exercise  in  the  open  air,  eat  oat-meal, 
cracked  wheat,  Graham  mush,  baked  sweet  apples,  roasted  and  broiled 
beef,  cultivate  jolly  i)eople,  and  bathe  daily. 

Superfluous  Hairs — Are  best  left  alone.  Shaving  only  increases  the 
strength  of  the  hair,  and  all  depilatories  are  dangerous  and  sometimes  dis- 
figure the  face.  The  only  sure  plan  is  to  spread  on  a  piece  of  leather  equal 
parts  of  ^Ibanum  and  pitch  plaster,  lay  it  on  the  hair  as  smoothly  as  pos- 
sible, let  it  remain  three  or  four  minutes,  then  remove  it  with  the  hairs, 
root  and  branch.  This  is  severe  but  effective. '  Kerosene  will  also  remove 
them.     If  sore  after  using,  rub  on  sweet-oil. 

The  Pace. — To  wash  projKjrly,  fill  basin  two-thirds  full  with  fresh,  soft 
water,  dip  face  in  the  water  and  then  the  hands;  soap  the  hands  well  and 
rub  with  a  gentle  friction  over  the  face;  dip  the  face  in  water  the  second 
time  and  rinse  oflf  thoroughly,  wiping  with  a  thick  but  soft  towel.  Pure 
Foajis  do  not  irritate  the  skin.  The  l>est  are  castile,  curd,  glycerine  and  other 
THHitral  soaps.  Medicated  or  highly  colored  or  perfumed  soaps  should  never 
be  used. 

Food. — A  good  complexion  never  goes  with  a  bad  diet.  Strong  coffee,  hot 
bread  and  butter,  heated  grea.se,  highly  sj>iced  soups,  meats  or  game,  hot 
drinks,  alcoholic  liquors,  fat  meats,  are  all  damaging  to  its  beauty.  Strong 
tea,  used  daily,  will  after  a  time  give  the  skin  the  color  and  appearance  c« 
leather.  Coffee  affects  the  s^kin  less  but  the  nerves  more,  ana  a  healthy 
nervous  system  is  neces.sary  to  beauty.  Late  suppers,  over-eating  at  meals, 
eating  between  meals,  the  use  of  candies,  sweetmeats,  preserves,  etc.,  pn> 
duce  pimples  and  blotches. 

The  Hands. — The  use  of  gloves,  especially  kids,  help  to  preserve  the  soft- 
ness of  the  hands.     Cleanliness  and  sprinkling  with  orris-root  counteracts 


THE  ARTS  OF  THE  TOILET.  577 

excessive  perspiration.  Warts  are  removed  by  steeping  the  hands  in  warm 
water  for  naif  an  hour,  and  then  paring  away  the  white  and  insensible  sur- 
face. The  nails  should  be  cut  frequently,  always  in  oval  shape.  The  nail- 
brush should  be  full  and  soft.  It  should  be  rubbed  on  a  cake  of  soap  and 
then  used  vigorously.  Biting  nails  is  a  bad  habit.  To  break  it  up,  in  chil- 
dren, dip  the  ends  of  the  lingers  in  a  solution  of  aloes. 

The  Nose. — Excessive  wiping,  snufling,  and  blowing,  especially  in  chil- 
dren, deforms  the  noae,  and  should  be  i)racticed  only  wlien  necessary  for 
cleanliness.  A  nose  leaning  to  one  side,  caused  by  wiping  in  one  direction, 
may  be  cured  by  using  the  handkerchief  with  the  other  Land,  or  by  wear- 
ing occasionally  an  instrument  surgeons  employ  for  that  imrposc.  Lar^e, 
fleshy  noses  are  reduced  by  wearing  at  night  a  contrivunc^e  which  com- 
presses the  artery  that  supplies  the  nose.  Red  noses  become  so  by  exi)osure 
to  heat  or  the  sun,  by  alcoholic  drinks,  or  by  a  debility  of  the  blood-vessels 
of  the  skin.  The  latter  cause  is  removed  by  gentle  friction  and  cold  bathing 
of  the  feet. 

The  Bath — Not  only  promotes  cleanliness,  but  is  a  tonic.  The  skin  does 
one-third  of  the  work  or  breatliin}2r,  and  if  the  myriad  of  pores  are  closed, 
the  lungs  are  overburdened,  or  else  the  work  is  left  unuone.  The  tonic 
effect  is  caused  by  the  contraction  of  the  surface  blood-vessels,  driving  tha 
blood  back  to  the  larger  blood-vessels  and  the  heart,  bringing  on  a  reaction 
which 'rushes  the  blood  back  to  the  skin,  causing  a  glow,  freer  respiration 
and  more  vigorous  action  of  the  whole  muscular  system.  A  sponge  or 
hand  bath  are  the  simplest  forms,  and  should  be  taken  in  a  moderately 
warm  room.  As  a  rule,  the  more  rapidly  a  bath  is  taken  the  better,  and  it 
should  always  be  followed  by  friction  with  the  hand  or  with  a  not  too  rough 
towel. 

The  Ear. — ^The  outer  ear  should  be  well  cleansed  and  the  passage  wiped 
out  daily  with  a  rag  on  the  end  of  the  little  linger,  but  notlnng  should  be 
inserted* further.  The  insertion  of  a  pin,  orany  liard  substance,  frequently 
ruptures  the  ear.  When  cleansing  is  necessary  on  account  of  accumulation 
of  wax  by  cold,  or  other  cause,  it  should  be  done  by  syringing  with  warm 
water,  having  dropped  in  two  or  three  drops  of  glycerine  the  night  before 
to  soften  the  substance  to  be  removed.  This  often  cures  sudden  deafness. 
Cotton-wool  stuffed  into  the  ear  is  injurious  and  is  seldom  necessary.  In 
conversing  with  deaf  persons,  it  is  important  to  remember  that  clearness, 
distinctness,  and  a  musical  tone  of  voice  is  understood  much  more  easily 
than  a  loud  tone. 

Teeth. — Cracking  nuts,  biting  thread,  eating  hot  food,  especially  bread 
and  pastry  raised  with  soda,  very  cold  drinks,  alternate  contact  with  cold 
and  hot  substances,  highly  sea.'^oned  food,  alcoholic  liquors  and  tobacco, 
metal  toothpicks,  and  want  of  cleanliness,  are  injurious  to  teeth.  After 
eating,  the  mouth  should  be  rinsed  with  lukewarm  water,  and  such  pieces 
of  food  as  are  not  thus  washed  awny  removed  by  a  quill  toothpick.  Tooth- 
brushes should  be  elastic  and  moderately  hard.*  Those  with  hairs  not  too 
close  together  are  best  and  most  durable.  A  brush  that  is  too  hard  may  be 
permanently  softened  by  dipping  in  hot  water.  Rub  up  and  down  as 
well  as  across  the  teeth.  Teeth  should  be  often  examined  oy  a  com i>e tent 
dentist. 

Collars  that  do  not  Fit.  —  Few  gentlemen  have  philosophy  enough  to 
endure  an  ill-fitting  collar  with  patience,  but  not  many  understand  why  Uiey 
do  not  fit  The  fact  is,  the  laundress  stretches  them  tlie  wrong  way.  'l>amp 
linen  is  very  pliable,  and  a  good  pull  will  alter  a  fourteen-inch  into  a  fift<?en- 
inch  collar  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye.  She  ought  to  stretch  them  crosswise, 
and  not  lengthwise.  Then,  in  straitrli tuning  out  shirt-bosoms,  she  makes 
another  mistake  of  the  same  sort.  They  also  ought  to  be  pulled  crosswise  in- 
stead of  lengthwi.se,  particularly  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  neck.  A  length- 
wise pull  draws  the  front  of  the  neckband  somewhat  directly  under  your 
chin,  where  it  was  never  meant  to  go ;  and,  of  course,  that  spoils  the  fit  of 


578  THE  ARTS  OF  THE  TOILET. 

Jrour  collar.    With  the  front  of  the  neckband  an  inch  too  high,  and  the  col- 
ar  an  inch  too  long,  you  have  a  most  undesirable  combination. 

Cutting  Teeth. — Tlie  time  the  first  teeth  make  their  appearance  varieai, 
but  the  following  dates  approximate  the  time:  Central  incisors  from  five  to 
eight  months  after  birth ;  lateral  incisors  from  seven  to  ten :  first  molars  from 
twelve  to  sixteen ;  cuspids,  or  eye-teeth,  from  fourteen  to  twenty ;  second  mo- 
lars from  twenty  to  thirty-six.    The  first  teeth  should  be  protected  from  de- 
cay as  far  as  possible  by  careful  cleaning  daily:  if  decay  makes  its  appear- 
ance, the  cavity  should  be  promptly  filled,  and  the  tooth  saved  until  dis- 
placed by  the  permanent  teeth.    About  the  sixth  year,  the  first  molars  of 
the  permanent  teeth  make  their  appearance.    They  are  generally  supposed  to 
>)elong  to  the  first  or  milk-teeth,  and  are  frequently  Tost  for  want  of  care. 
i  little  more  attention  eiven  to  the  first  teeth  would  save  parents  and  chil- 
dren sleepless  niglits  ana  suffering. 

The  Eyes.— Damp,  foggy  weather,  the  reflection  of  the  bright  sunshine, 
intense  cold,  dusty  windTfeadinK  on  cars  in  motion,  reading  by  gas  or  lamp- 
light when  the  light  falls  directlv  on  the  e^'es,  sitting  before  a  glowing  fire, 
wearing  of  glasses  when  not  needed,  wearing  veils,  and  all  indulgences  that 
weaken  the  nervous  system,  injure  the  eyes.  The  most  pleasing  light  for 
w^ork  is  from  a  northern  exposure.  A  shade  that  protects  the  eyes  from  tho 
light  that  falls  on  paper,  book  or  work  is  an  advantage.  The  liRht  should 
not  come  from  different  points,  but  that  from  behind  the  worker  is  best. 
A  very  weak  or  very  bri^t  light  should  be  equally  avoided.  Diseases  of 
the  eye  are  often  the -result  oi  general  weakness,  and  in  such  cases  local 
treatment  has  little  effect  In  fitting  glasses  to  the  eye  great  care  should  be 
taken  to  adjust  the  lens  to  the  eye  with  accuracy.  Crown  glass  is  preferable 
to  fiint,  on  account  of  its  superior  hardness,  its  entire  want  of  color,  and 
its  non-decomposition  of  light.  Scotch  pebbles  are  unobjectionable  except 
as  to  cost. 

Dress. — ^The  first  object  of  dress  is  protection  of  the  body,  second  to  en- 
hance and  bring  out  its  beauty.  Dress  which  does  not  enhance  the  beauty 
of  the  wearer,  or  which  attracts  attention  from  the  wearer  to  itself,  is  out 
of  taste.  To  be  in  correct  taste  it  must  be  "  becoming,"  and  in  this  sense 
dressing  is  an  art  worthy  of  the  attention  and  «tudy  of  the  most  intellec- 
tual and  accomplished  woman.  The  beauty  of  dress,  to  a  cultivated  eye, 
does  not  lie  in  its  money  value,  but  in  its  perfection  in  detail  and  per* 
feet  adaptation  to  the  wearer  and  the  occasion  for  which  it  is  intenaed. 
Any  simpleton  in  petticoats,  who  has  plenty  of  money,  can  order  her 
clothes  from  Worth,  in  the  latest  Paris  styles,  but  some  quiet  woman,  with 
brains  and  taste,  in  simpler  costume,  will  be  sure  to  outshine  her  in 
•'society."  Low-necked  dresses,  dragging  skirts,  corsets  and  stays,  p*d«» 
dings,  heavy  skirts  which  rest  on  the  hips,  heavy  veils,  high-heeled  biooti 
.and  every  other  unphy Biological  abomination  in  dress,  mars  beauty  and  de^ 
stroys  health. 

Freckles. — Grate  horse-radish  fine :  let  it  stand  a  few  hours  in  buttermilk, 
then  strain  and  use  the  wash  night  and  morning.  Or,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  into  half  a  goblet  of  water  and  use  the  same  way.  Most  of  the  reme- 
dies for  freckles  are  poisonous,  and  can  not  be  used  with  safety.  Freckles 
indicate  a  defective  digestion,  and  consist  in  deposits  of  some  carbonaceous 
or  fatty  matter  beneath  the  skin.  The  diet  should  be  of  such  a  nature  that 
bowels  and  kidneys  will  do  their  duty.  Daily  bathing,  with  much  friction, 
should  not  be  neglected,  and  the  Turkish  bath  taken  occasionally,  if  con- 
venient. The  juice  of  a  lemon,  in  which  there  is  as  much  sugar  dissolved  as 
the  juice  will  hold  in  solution,  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  freckles.  This 
sliould  be  applied  with  a  camel's-hair  brush  several  times  daily,  until  they 
disappear.  It  mu.st  be  understood  that  all  acids  are  astringents  in  their 
nature,  and  their  too  freqtient  use  is  as  injurious  as  many  apparently  more  deleterir 
<ms  cosmetics;  for,  by  too  frequent  and  violent  contraction  of  the  pores,  they 
become  overworked,  and  finally  refuse  to  respond  to  the  action  of  any  apph<* 


THE  ARTS  OF  THE  TOILET  57^ 

cation ;  wrinkles  resnit,  and  are  generally  ineradicable,  except  after  a  tedi- 
ooa  dietetic  and  medical  course  of  treatment. 

Tbeth. — Many,  while  attentive  to  their  teeth,  do  more  injury  than  good 
by  two  much  officiousness,  daily  applying  some  dentifrice,  or  tooth-powder, 
often  impure  and  injurious,  and  rubbing  them  so  liard  as  not  only  to  injure 
the  enamel  by  excessive  friction,  but  also  to  hurt  tl^e  gums  even  more  than 
by  a  toothpick.  Tooth-powders  advertised  in  new8paj)ers  are  to  be  suspected, 
as  some  of  them  are  not  free  froiu  corrosive  ingredients.  Cliarcoal  (which 
wkitens  the  teeth  very  nicely),  pumice-stone,  cuitle-fisli,  and  similar  sub- 
stances, are  unfit  for  use  in  tootli-powdcrs,  as  all  are  to  a  certain  extent  in- 
soluble in  the  mouth,  and  are  forced  between  the  margin  of  the  gums,  form- 
ing a  nucleus  for  a  deposit.  Below  will  be  found  a  few  good  formulas  for 
dentifrices:  Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  creta  prepnraia,  one  pound  each  of 

Sowdered  borax,  powdered  orris-root  and  white  sugar,  and  two  ounces  car- 
amom  seeds;  flavor  with  wintergrecn,  rose  or  jasmine.  If  color  is  desired^ 
use  one  pound  of  rose-pink  and  as  much  less  of  o'eta  preparata.  Tooth- 
powders  should  be  thoroughly  triturated  in  a  wedgewood  mortar  and  finely 
Dotted.  The  following  is  a  simple  and  cheap  preparation,  and  is  pretty  good. 
Take  of  prepared  chalk  and  fine  old  Windsor  soap  pulverized  well  in  pro- 
portion of  about  six  parts  of  the  former  to  one  of  the  latter.  Soap  is  a  very 
oeneficial  ingredient  of  tooth-powder. 

The  Hair. — Professor  Erasmus  Wilson,  of  London,  who  is  authority  on 
the  subject,  condemns  the  washing  of  hair;  but  advises  that  it  should  be 
kept  clean  by  brtishing,  this  being  a  more  effective  stimulant  than  water. 
In  cases  of  ordinary  falling  out  of  the  hair,  he  prescribes  the  following: 
Liquid  ammonia,  almond  oil,  and  chloroform,  of  each  one  part,  diluted 
witli  five  Darts  of  alcohol  or  spirits  of  rosemary,  which  can  be  made  fragrant 
by  the  addition  of  a  drachm  of  the  essential  oil  of  lemons.  The  head  should 
undergo  a  thorough  friction  with  the  hair-brush,  after  which  the  lotion  may 
be  applied.  It  may  be  diluted,  if  necessary,  and  can  be  applied  daily  or 
otherwise. 

For  removing  scurf,  he  advises  a  lotion  of  borax  and  glycerine,  two 
drachms  of  each  to  ei^ht  ounces  of  distilled  water.  This  is  cooling,  and 
allays  dryness  of  the  skin. 

In  cases  of  baldness,  a  lotion  of  the  following  can  be  iised  with  effect: 
Camphor,  ammonia,  chloroform  and  aconite,  in  equal  parts,  to  be  rubbed 
on  the  bare  place  daily,  or  twice  a  day. 

A  barber  recommends  ladies  to  have  their  hair  .shampooed  once  a  month. 
This  will  bring  out  the  natural  luster,  soften  it,  clear  it  of  dust,  and  rob  it 
of  that  musty  smell  which  comes  of  having  long  hair  wound  up  closely  for 
any  length  of  time.  It  will  also  remove  that  itching  of  the  head  which  some 
ladies  find  so  troublesome. 

For  Complexion.— Blanch  one-fourth  pound  best  Jordan  almonds,  slip  off 
the  skin,  mash  in  a  mortar,  and  rub  together  with  best  white  soap,  for  fifteen 
minutes,  adding  gradually  one  quart  rose-water,  or  clean  fresh  rain-water 
may  be  used.  When  the  mixture  looks  like  milk,  strain  through  fine  mus- 
lin. Apply,  after  washing,  with  a  soft  rag.  To  whiten  the  skin,  and  remove 
freckles  and  tan,  bathe  three  times  a  day  in  a  preparation  of  three  (juarts 
water,  one  quart  alcohol,  two  ounces  cologne,  and  one  of  borax,  in  propor- 
tion of  two  tea-spoons  mixture  to  two  table-spoons  soft  water.  Bathing  the 
face  in  pure  buttermilk,  clear  whev.  sour  milK,  new  or  sweet  milk,  is  sooth- 
ing and  healing  after  walking,  riding,  driving,  rowing  or  sailing.  Do  not 
plunge  the  face  into  cold  water,  neither  dash  tlie  water  over  the  face  when 
suffering  from  sunburn  or  exposure  to  wind  or  water;  the  sudden  shock  is 
not  only  injurious  to  the  whole  system,  but  has  been  known  to  permanently 
deface  the  complexion  by  a  species  of  tanning  which  left  a  brown  or  yellow 
tinge  impossible  to  efface. 

Queen  Bess  Ooniplerum  Wash. — Put  in  a  vial  one  drachm  of  benzoin  guna 
in  powder,  one  drachm  nutmeg-oil,  six  drops  of  orange-blossom  tea,  or 


580  THE  ARTS  OF  THE  TOILET, 

• 

apple-blossoms  put  in  lialf  pint  rain-water  and  boiled  down  to  one    tea- 
spoonful  and  strained,  one  pint  of  sherry  wine.     Bathe  the  face  morning 
and  night:  will  remove  all  Hesh-worms  and  freckles,  and  give  a  beautiful 
oomplexion.    Or,  put  one  ounce  of  powdered  gum  of  henzoin  in  pint  of 
whisKv;   to  use,  put  in  water  in  wash-bowl  till  it  is  milky,  allowing  it  to 
dry  without  wiping.    This  is  j^erfcctly  harmless. 

•tHE  Hair. — (.'ombsof  tortoise-sliell,  bone,  or  rubber,  with  not  very  sharp 
teeth,  should  be  used.    Sharp  teeth  injure  the  scalp  and  produce  dandruff 
Two  brushes,  one  hard,  to  clean  the  hair  and  scalp,  and  the  other  ssoft,   to 
smooth  and  polish,  are  best.    Clean  brushes  by  rubomg  them  with  bran,  or 
wash  with  one  part  ammonia  and  two  of  water.   Combing  or  brushing  should 
be  done  in  the  natural  direction  of  the  hair,  and  never  against  it.    In   the 
proper  way  it  can  not  be  brushed  too  much.    To  keep  the  scalp  clean  wash 
m  tepid  soft  water  with  a  little  pure  soap  in  it,  rinse  in  pure  water,  dry  ^-ith 
towels  and  then  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire.    Oily  hair  may  be  washed  once  a 
week,  light  hair  less  often.    Some  occuj>ations  require  that  it  should  be 
washed  much  oftener.    All  preparations  tor  the  hair  are  more  or  less  injuri- 
ous.   Healthy  hair  has  enough  oil  of  its  own,  and  the  application  of  foreign 
oil  destroys  its  vitality.      Preparations  containing   alconol  fade   hair  and 
make  it  brittle.    The  only  time  when  oil  is  admissable  is  after  washing. 
The  best  prei>aration  is  one  part  of  glycerine  to  three  of  rose-water.     Pow- 
ders made  of  starch,  when  used,  must  be  washed  out  of  the  hair  to  prevent 
injurv.    Those  made  of  colored  glass  are  very  injurious,  cutting  ana  otJier- 
wise  damaging  tlie  hair.    At  ni^it,  the  hair  should  be  loosened  and   left 
free.     Night-caps  are  a   relic  of  oarbarism.    Hair  dyes  are  very  injurious, 
as  they  all  contain  more  or  less  sugar  of  lead,  nitrate  of  silver,  and  other 
ingredients,  which  affect  the  brain,  produce  paralysis,  innammation  of  the 
eyes,  and  impairment  of  sight.    Gray  hairs  are  an  indication  that  the  hair- 

SVoducing  organs  are  weakening,  \\hen  found  they  should  be  cut  down  to 
le  healthy  part,  and  the  head  should  be  exposed  as  much  as  possible,  ex- 
cept in  tlie  middle  of  the  day,  to  the  sun  and  air.  When  hair  falls  out,  it 
indicates  a  disease  of  the  scalp.  To  cure,  dip  the  head  twice  a  day  in  cold 
water  and  rub  with  a  brush  until  a  glow  is  produced.  In  case  the  hair  is  too 
long  to  wet  brush  until  a  glow  is  produced,  and  then  rub  into  the  roots  a 
wash  made  of  three  drachms  of  pare  glycerine  and  four  ounces  of  lime- 
water. 

Thk  Fekt. — The  largest  pores  of  the  body  are  located  in  the  bottom  of  the 
feet.  For  this  reason  the  feet  should  be  frequently  and  thoroughly  washed, 
and  tlie  stockings  changed  often.  If  great  cleanliness  is  not  observed,  these 
great  pores  become  absorbent,  and  the  poisons  given  off  are  taken  back  into 
the  system.  The  nails  ought  to  be  cut  squarely.  Blisters  i\jay  be  prevented 
by  rubbing  the  feet,  after  washing,  with  glycerine.  Bunions  are  caused  by 
wearing  shoes  too  tight  or  too  short.  They  are  difficult  to  get  rid  of,  but  may 
be  riUeviated  by  wearing  easy-fitting  shoes,  i)oulticing  and  putting  a  rub}>er 
rin^  an)und  the  spot.  C-orns,  which  are  caused  by  a  ei)n tinned  pressure  on 
tlie  foot,  may  be  prevented  by  wearing  woolen  stockings  and  shoes  that  fit 
well.  They  are  known  as  hard  and  soft,  but  their  difference  is  entirely 
owing  to  locality.  If  a  com  is  situated  between  the  toes,  where  it  is  kept  moist 
by  perspiration,  it  is  of  the  soft  variety;  but,  if  located  on  the  outside  of  the 
toe.  where  it  could  get  no  moisture,  it  would  necessarily  be  hard.  They  are 
produced  by  pressure  or  friction,  and  are  simply  a  protective  growth  thrown 
out  for  tliepurpose  of  preventing  the  tissues  being  injured.  They  are  suffi- 
ciently painful  at  all  times,  but  they  are  the  most  unbearable  when  an  acca- 
mulation  of  pus  takes  place  beneath  them.  The  escape  of  this  <lrop  of  pus 
is  prevented  oy  the  hardened  and  thickened  cuticle,  which  must  be  jmulticed 
or  soaked  in  warm  water,  and  then  removed  by  a  sharp-pointed  knife.  The 
entire  com  can  be  taken  out  with  a  little  care  and  patient  work,  without 
drawing  a  drop  of  blood.  The  api)lication  of  caustics  should  be  avoided  in 
the  treatment  of  corns,  especially  in  old  people,  as  fatal  gangrenous  inflaiu- 


THE  AMIS  OF  THE  TOILET.  681 

ination  may  be  the  result  Temporary  relief  from  a  painful  sore  com  may 
readily  be  obtained  by  applying  strong  carbolic  add.  Take  the  cork  out  of 
a  small  bottle  of  carbolic,  and  apply  it  (the  oork^  to  the  com.  Relief  wHl 
come  at  once,  and  you  will  be  enabled  to  walk  with  comparative  comfort  till 
you  can  flud  time  to  remove  the  com  with  the  knife.  Hard  corns  may  be 
treated  as  follows :  Take  a  thick  piece  of  soft  leather  or  felt^  cut  a  hole  in  the 
center.  Upon  going  to  bed  at  night,  fill  the  hole  in  the  center  of  the  leather 
with  a  paste  made  of  soda  and  soap :  wash  it  off  in  the  morning,  and  repeat 
the  process  for  several  nights,  and  the  com  will  be  removed.  Half  a  cran- 
berry, or  a  piece  of  lemon,  bound  on  a  com  will  soon  kill  it 

SwrrcHES — ^That  have  lost  freshness  may  be  very  much  improved  by  dip- 
ping them  into  common  ammonia  without  dilution.  Half  a  pint  is  enou^ 
for  the  purpose.  The  life  and  color  of  the  hair  is  revived  as  if  it  were  just 
<'ut  from  the  head.  This  dipping  should  be  repeated  once  in  three  months 
to  free  the  switch  from  dust,  as  well  as  to  insure  safety  from  parasitic  formar 

tiOQS. 

Rowland's  Macassab  Oil — Is  a  wonderful  stimulant  to  the  growth  of 
hair:  Tie  one-fourth  ounce  chippinp  of  alkanet  root  in  a  piece  of  coarse 
muslin,  suspend  it  for  a  week  in  a  jar  containing  eight  ounces  of  sweet  oil, 
taking  care  to  cover  from  dirt.  Then  add  sixty  drops  tincture  cantharides, 
ten  drops  oil  of  rose,  and  sixty  drops  neroli  and  lemon.  Let  stand  three 
weeks  closely  corked. 

Ox-MABBow  PoMATUK. — ^Takc  two  ounces  of  yellow  wax  and  twelve  ounces 
of  beef  marrow.  Melt  all  together,  and  when  sufficiently  cool  perfume  it 
with  essential  oil  of  almonds. 

Ebuftions  Caused  by  Hsat. — Nothing  is  better  than  bathing  irritated 
parts  in  a  solution  of  one  tea-spoonful  of  the  common  carbolic  acid  to  a  pint 
of  rose-water.  The  acid,  as  usually  sold  in  solution,  is  about  one-half  the 
strength  of  really  pure  acid,  which  is  very  hard  to  find.  Care  must  be  taken 
not  to  let  the  wasn  get  into  the  eyes,  as  it  certainly  will  smart,  though  it 
may  not  be  strong  enough  to  do  further  harm.  No  more  purifying,  healing 
lotion  is  known  to  medi^  skill,  and  its  work  is  speedy. 

Coabse  and  Stippled  Skin. — Some  faces  which  are  neither  pimpled  nor 
freckled  look  like  a  pin-cushion  from  which  the  pins  have  been  dnwn  out 
The  oil-glands,  particularly  on  the  nose  and  cheeks,  are  coarse  and  large. 
Wearing  at  night  a  mask  of  quilted  cotton  wet  in  cold  water  will  soften  and 
renew  the  skin,  and  will  do  more  for  it  than  the  costly  toilet  masks  and  cos- 
nietiques.  It  requires  patience,  four  to  six  weeks  bein^  required  sometimes; 
but  it  works  a  cure  and  repays  patience.  The  new  skin  is  as  soft  as  an  in- 
fant's. When  oily,  bathing  in  camphor  is  an  aid,  but  camphor  should  never 
be  used  on  ^pod  complexions,  as  it  parches  them. 

Fob  the  Complexion. — ^If  ladies  will  use  any  thing,  the  following  are  the 
best  and  most  harmless:  Blanch  one-fourth  pound  best  Jordan  almonds, 
slip  ofT  the  skin,  mash  in  a  mortar,  and  rub  together  with  the  best  white 
soap  for  fifteen  minutes,  adding  gradually  one  quart  of  rose-water ;  or  cleim, 
fresh  rain-water  may  be  used.  When  the  mixture  looks  like  milk,  strain 
through  fine  muslin.  Apply  after  washine  with  a  soft  rag^  To  whiten  the 
skin  and  remove  freckles  and  tan,  bathe  three  times  a  da^  in  a  preparation 
of  three  quarts  of  alcohol,  two  ounces  cologne,  and  one  of  borax,  in  propor- 
tion of  two  tea-spoons  mixture  to  two  table-spoons  soft  water. 

Sallownsss. — A  preparation  which  rids  the  svstem  of  the  cause  of  sallow- 
ness,  and  which  is  of  value  in  the  sprint,  is  made  as  follows :  Half  an  ounce 
each  of  spruce,  hemlock  and  sarsaparilla  bark,  dandelion,  burdock  and  yel- 
low dock,  in  one  gallon  of  water;  boil  half  an  hour,  strain  while  hot,  and 
add  ten  arops  of  oil  of  spruce  and  sassafras ;  mix.  When  cold,  add  half  a 
pound  brown  sugar  and  half  a  cup  yeast  Let  stand  twelve  hours  in  a  jar 
covered  tight,  and  bottle.  Use  freely  as  an  iced  drink.  It  is  equal  to  the 
root  beer  which  New  Yorkers  drink  so  generally  during  warm  months. 


ACCIDENTS  A2n>  SUDDEN  SICKNESa 


It  is  no  longer  considered  a  mark  of  the  highest  type  of  the  feminine 
mind  to  faint  away  at  the  smallest  fHght,  and  to  sink  into  helplessness  at 
the  first  appearance  of  danger.    Indeed,  self-possession  in  emergencies  i» 
evidence  of  a  clear  brain,  which,  at  the  critical  moment,  asserts  its  supremacy' 
over  physical  weakness,  and  takes  command  of  the  demoralized  forces ;  be- 
sides, fright  and  confusion  are  a  confession  of  ignorance  as  well  as  want  of 
self-control.    Those  who  know  exactly  what  to  do  in  emergencies  rarely  be- 
come panic-stricken.    And  it  is  particularly  important  for  women,  who  are^ 
doubtless,  constitutionally  more  timid  than  men,  to  fortify  themselves  against 
danger,  by  learning  what  to  do  in  such  accidents  and  emergencies  as  are 
likely  to  occur  in  the  life  of  every  one.    It  would  prove  a  rare  case,  indeed, 
if  such  knowledge  did  not,  at  least  once  in  a  life-time,  enable  the  possessor 
of  it  to  save  a  valuable  life,  perhaps  one  infinitely  dearer  to  her  than  her 
own.    Of  course,  within  the  limits  of  such  an  article  as  is  permissible  here, 
only  a  few  hints  can  be  given,  rather  to  suggest  further  investigation  than  to 
be  a  complete  guide. 

A  LtFB-PRESERVKR. — A  felt  or  silk  hat,  held  so  as  to  keep  the  crown  fuU 
of  air,  will  sustain  a  person  above  water  for  a  great  length  of  time. 

Panics. — If  in  a  public  hall  in  a  panic,  keep  your  seat;  even  in  case  of 
fire  the  chance  of  life  is  greater  if  free  from  tne  crowd. 

Stinos  of  Insects— Are  relieved  by  tlie  application  of  ammonia,  or  com- 
mon table  salt,  well  rubbed  in,  or  a  slice  of  an  onion,  to  the  part 

RuNAWAYB. — In  all  runaways  it  is  safer  to  remain  in  the  vehicle,  and  to 
stop  witii  it.  than  to  jump  while  the  horse  is  running.  The  vehicle  helps  to 
break  the  sh<x;k  of  the  final  stop. 

PoisoNODs  WocNDS. — Wounds  by  which  poison  has  been  carried  into  the 
system,  require  instant  treatment.  The  wound  must  be  burned  out  by  a 
stick  of  lunar  caustic,  or  by  inserting  a  large,  red-hot  nail. 

Burns  by  Alkalies,  such  as  lime,  caustic  potash,  soda,  ammonia,  etc.,  are 
stopped  in  their  progress  by  applying  vinegar,  lemon-juic«,  or  other  dilute 
acid  ;  they  must  be  then  treated  like  other  burns. 

Burns  prom  Acids,  such  as  oil  of  vitriol  and  aqua  fortis,  may  be  checked 
by  the  free  application  of  water  or  handfuls  of  moist  earth.  The  first  dilutes 
the  acid,  and  the  second  contains  alkali  enough  to  neutralize  the  acid. 

Chokinc*. — A  piece  of  food  lodged  in  the  throat  may  sometimes  be  pushed 
down  with  the  finger,  or  removed  with  a  liair-pin  quickly  straightened  and 
hooked  at  the  end,  or  by  two  or  three  vigorous  blows  on  the  back  between 
ilie  shoulders. 

Fracture.— Send  at  once  for  a  physician,  and  simply  make  the  patient  as 
comfortable  a.s  ix)ssible.  If  he  is  to  be  conveyed  to  some  distance,  the  frac- 
tured part  should  be  siip[>orted  in  its  natural  position  by  handkerchiefs- 
loosely  tied.     Allow  no  more  handling  than  is  absolute!}'  necessary. 

Chilblains — Are  the  result  of  a  chilling  of  tlic  part.  To  cure,  keep 
(582) 


ACCIDENTS  AND  SUDDEN  SICKNESS.  583 

away  from  the  fire,  and  at  night,  before  going  to  bed,  wash  in  cold  water,  op 
rub  in  snow,  and  apply  the  compound  resin  ointment,  made  by  all  druggists, 
with  a  little  oil  of  turpentine  added  to  it. 

Swallowing  Pieces  of  Broken  Glass,  Pins,  etc. — By  no  means  take  a 
pui^ative.  Rather  partake  freely  of  suet  pudding,  or  any  solid  farinaceous 
food,  and  it  is  possible  that  both  may  pass  away  together  without  injury 
being  done. 

Bites  op  Serpents. — When  bitten  by  a  rattlesnake,  or  other  poisonous 
serpent,  pinch  the  .skin,  and,  if  the  wound  can  be  reached,  suck  out  all  the 
blood  (>ossible ;  if  the  skin  of  the  lips  and  mouth  is  sound,  no  harm  will  be 
done.  Whisky  or  brandy  should,  iiowever,  be  administered  freely,  to  in- 
toxication. 

Fainting. — Debility  of  the  nervous  sy.stcni  favors  fainting.  The  head 
should  be  kept  low ;  and  if  the  patient  faint:)  in  a  chair,  the  simplest  treat- 
ment is  to  grasp  the  back  of  it  and  depress  it  until  the  floor  is  reached,  while 
another  holds  the  knees  so  as  to  prevent  slipping  off  the  side.  The  patient 
will  usually  recover  bv  tlie  time  the  head  has  reached  the  floor. 

Shock  prom  Cold  ^ater. — Prostration  from  drinking  or  bathing  in  cold 
water  wliile  exhausted  by  heat  or  exercise  should  be  treated  as  described  for 
shock  from  other  cau.ses.  Cold  water  should  be  taken  in  small  quantities 
when  the  body  is  heated  and  exhausted,  and  a  cold  bath  is  often  fatal  under 
such  circumstances. 

Epileptic  Fits.— In  these  there  is  nothing  which  a  by-stander  or  friend 
can  do,  except  to  keep  out  of  reach  such  articles  as  may  injure  the  patient 
during  the  convulsive  movements;  to  loosen  the  clothing  about  the  neck  and 
throat,  and  to  assist  to  some  place  of  .•safety  when  the  semi-conscious  state 
returns.     Other  convulsions  are  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

Lightning. — If  the  person  shows  no  si^ns  of  life,  strip  and  dash  the  body 
with  cold  water,  dry  and  place  in  bed  with  bottles  of  hot  water  at  the  pit  of 
the  stomach  and  extremities,  keeping  up  artificial  respiration  until  the  nat- 
ural breathing  is  restored ;  a  tca-si)oon  of  brandy  in  a  table-spoon  of  water 
may  be  given  every  few  minutes.  Burns  from  lightning  should  be  treated 
like  burns  from  any  other  cause. 

Breaking  Through  Ice. — In  assisting  persons  who  have  broken  through 
ice,  get  a  long  pole,  or  stick,  or  board,  to  distribute  the  weight  over  a  greater 
surface  of  ice.  In  attempting  to  pet  out  of  water  upon  the  ice,  after  hft/ing 
fallen  in,  the  best  way  is  to  approach  it  sidewise,  and  roll  out  rather  than 
to  attempt  to  raise  the  body  up  by  the  arms  alone,  as  the  weight  is  more 
widely  distrihuted. 

Hangin(4.— Death  is  from  the  same  cause  as  in  drowning.  Cut  down  the 
bodv  without  allowing  it  to  fall,  place  on  face,  press  back  tongue  with  finger 
to  allow  any  accumulation  to  escape  from  the  mouth,  place  on  the  back,  and 
treat  as  directed  for  the  drowned.  If  body  is  still  warm  after  the  removal 
of  clothing,  stand  off  six  feet  and  dash  several  times  with  a  bowl  of  cold 
water,  the  face,  neck,  and  chest. 

BrRX I NG -Houses. — When  a  house  is  on  fire,  close  all  the  doors  and  pre- 
vent currents  of  nir.  If  the  fire  could  be  entirely  shut  in,  it  would  smother 
and  die  out.  The  check  will  give  time  to  get  help,  or,  at  least,  to  remove 
furniture  and  inakoall  lives  secure.  If  up-stairs  when  the  stairway  below 
is  on  fire,  tear  clothing  to  maskc  cords  to  let  yourself  down  by.  If  a  room  is 
full  of  smoke  and  flame,  crawl  on  the  floor,  as  the  lower  air  is  the  colder  and 
more  free  from  .smoke. 

Foreign  Bodif.?*  in  the  Ear. — Take  the  head  of  the  child  between  the 
knees,  face  downward,  and  inject  a  stream  of  wjym  water  into  the  ear,  hold- 
ing the  nozzle  of  tlie  .syringe  outside,  so  as  to  allow  the  foreign  body  to  come 
out  with  the  water.  Probing,  with  any  substance  whatever,  is  very  dan- 
gerous, and  may  inflict  permanent  injury.  When  the  above  plan  does  not 
succeod,  call  asnrgeon.  Kill  insects  that  get  into  the  ear  by  pouring  ia 
aweet-oil  or  glycerine,  which  drowns  and  brings  them  to  the  surface. 


584  ACCIDENTS  AND  SUDDEN  SICKNESS. 

Foreign  Body  in  Nostril. — Children  often  push  foreign  bodies  up  the 
nostril.  To  remove  it,  make  the  child  draw  a  full  breath,  and  then,  closing 
the  other  nostril  with  the  finger,  and  the  mouth  with  the  hand,  expel  the  air 
from  the  lungs  by  a  sharp  blow  on  the  back.  If  it  can  not  be  removed  in 
this  way,  compress  the  nostril  above  it  to  prevent  its  going  uj)  an^^-  further, 
and  hook  it  out  with  the  bent  end  of  a  wire  or  bodkin.  If  this  fails,  call  a 
surgeon. 

Fkeezino. — Keep  the  frozen  person,  or  part,  away  from  the  heat  If  the 
person  is  insensible,  take  him  to  a  cold  room,  remove  clothing,  rub  with  snow 
or  clothes  wrung  out  of  ice-water.  The  cold  friction  should  be  kept  up  for 
some  time;  and  when  the  frozen  parts  show  signs  of  life,  the  uatient  should 
be  carefully  dried  and  put  into  a  cold  bed  in  a  cold  room,  ana  artificial  res- 
piration used  until  the  natural  is  restored;  and  then  brandy,  beef-tea.  and 
ginger-tea  administered.  The  patient  must  be  brought  by  degrees  into  the 
warmer  air.     Parts  frozen  should  be  treated  by  the  same  rule. 

Bites  of  Dogs. — The  only  safe  remedy  in  case  of  a  bite  from  a  dog  sus- 
pected of  madness,  is  to  burn  out  the  wound  thoroughly  witli  a  red-hot  iron» 
or  with  lunar  caustic,  for  fully  eight  i^econds,  so  as  to  destroy  the  entire  sur> 
face  of  the  wound.  Do  this  as  soon  as  ixjssible,  for  no  time  is  to  be  lost. 
Of  course  it  will  be  ex^>ected  that  the  parts  touched  with  the  caustic  will 
turn  black.  If,  unfortiumtely,  it  should  chance  that  any  one  is  bitten  by  a 
dog  that  is  said  to  be  mad,  it  is  wortli  while  to  chain,  the  animal  up,  instead 
of  shooting  it  instantly,  for  if  it  should  turn  out  that  it  is  not  mad — ^and  a 
false  alarm  is  frequently  raised — the  relief  to  the  minds  of  all  concerned 
is  indescribable. 

Foreign  Bodies  in  the  Eye. — The  particle  almost  invariably  lodges 
under  the  upper  lid,  adhering  to  it  If  that  lid  is  grasped  by  the  thumb 
and  finger,  drawn  outward  and  then  downward,  and  then  released,  the  lashes 
of  the  lower  lid  act  as  brush,  and  sweep  off  the  intruder.  If,  how^ever,  it 
adheres  to  the  eye-ball,  it  may  be  removed  by  rolling  the  upper  lid  over  a 
knitting-needle,  and  holding  it  there  in  such  a  position  as  to  expose  the  sur- 
face, when  the  particle  can  be  removed  by  the  corner  of  a  handkerchief. 
Sometimes  it  may  become  imbedded  in  the  membnine  which  covers  the  eye- 
ball, or  eye-lid,  and  require  the  aid  of  a  surgeon.  Never  use  any  of  the  eye- 
waters, lotions,  or  salvos,  advertised  as  popular.  A  particle  of  lime  in  the 
eye  is  very  dangerous,  and  vinegar  diluted  with  water  should  be  applied  at 
once;  even  when  done  inmiediatcly  the  eye  will  be  seriously  inflamed. 

Shock  or  Collapse  from  lightning,  sudden  and  severe  injuries,  bums 
extending  over  a  large  extent  of  surface,  or  powerful  emotions,  producea 
Bometliing  analogous  to  fainting.  IMiice  the  patient  flat  on  the  back,  with 
the  head  raised  not  more  than  an  inch,  and  give  a  tea-spoon  of  brandy  in 
a  table-spoon  of  water,  every  minute  for  six  or  eight  minutes.  If  the 
temperature  of  the  body  has  been  raised,  and  the  action  of  the  heart  is 
restored,  enough  has  been  given.  Application  of  heat  to  the  stomach  and 
extremities  is  useful.  The  nausea  and  vomiting  that  sometimes  accompany 
it  may  be  allayed  bjj"  swallowing  whole  small  chips  of  ice,  split  off  by  stand- 
ing a  piece  with  grain  upright  and  splitting  off  a  thin  edge  with  the  point 
of  a  nin.  Ammonia  applied  to  the  nostrils  is  often  useful,  and  cologne  on  a 
handkerchief  is  sometimes  of  service. 

PuNCTrRED  Wounds  need  a  pad  at  the  surface. to  cause  clotting  of  the  blood 
in  the  wound,  but  are  otherwise  treated  like  cutij.  If  pain  follows  and  in- 
flammation ensues,  the  pad  must  be  removed  to  permit  the  results  of  the  in- 
flammation to  escape.  Thorns  or  splinters,  when  run  into  the  flesh,  shoulil 
be  removed  by  cutting  in  far  enough  to  get  hold  of  and  draw  them  out. 
Slivers  under  the  nail,  when  not  reached  from  the  end,  should  be  removed 
by  scraping  the  nail  thin,  and  cutting  through  it  to  the  foreign  bo<ly.  and  so 
withdrawing  it;  the  part  should  then  be  tied  with  a  cloth  wet  with  water,  in 
which  a  few  drops  of  laudanum  have  been  mixed.  A  puncture,  by  a  rusty 
nail  or  some  such  substance,  of  the  finger,  toe,  hand,  or  foot,  fre<]uentl9 


ACCIDENTS  AND  SUDDEN  SICKNESS.  585 

caases  inflammation,  and  yet  there  is  not  room  for  the  foreign  matter  left  in 
the  wound  to  escape  througli  the  tough  skin,  and  lock-jaw  results ;  in  all  such 
cajses  the  wound  should  be  cut  open  to  provide  a  way  of  escape  for  the  blood, 
etc.,  and  a  piece  of  linen  wet  with  laudanum  inserted.  Wounds  from  bruises 
and  lacerations  especially  demand  careful  treatment,  on  the  same  general 
principles  given  above. 

Suffocation. — This  often  occurs  from  carbonic  acid  gas,  or  *'choke-damp»" 
on  entering  wells  or  old  cellars;  this  gas  being  heavier  than  air,  falls  and 
rests  at  the  bottom.  Before  entering  such  places,  test  by  lowering  a  lighted 
candle;  if  the  flame  is  extinguished  it  is  unsafe  to  enter  until  the  gas  has 
been  removed,  by  throwing  down  a  bundle  of  lighted  shavings  or  nlazin;» 
paper,  suflScient  to  cause  a  strong  upward  current.  When  a  person  is  over- 
come by  this  gas,  he  must  be  immediately  rescued  by  another,  who  njusr  he 
rapidly  lowered  and  drawn  out,  as  he  must  do  all  wliile  holding  his  breatli ; 
a  large  sack  is  sometimes  thrown  over  the  i)erson  who  goes  to  the  rescue.  As 
soon  as  brought  out,  place  tlie  person  on  his  back,  bare  the  neck  and  throati 
loosen  clothing  and  strip  as  quickly  as  |K)ssible ;  if  he  has  not  fallen  in  the 
water,  dash  cold  water  freely  over  head,  neck,  and  shoulders,  standing  off  sev- 
eral feet  and  throwing  it  with  force ;  artificial  respiration  should  be  used  mean- 
time, as  in  case  of  drowning,  with  as  little  cessation  as  possible.  If  the  per- 
son has  fallen  into  the  water  when  overcome  by  the  gas,  place  in  a  warm  bed, 
and  use  the  means  of  artiflcial  respiration  vigorously. 

Suflbcation  from  burning  charcoal,  from  anthracite  or  bituminous  coal,  or 
from  common  burning  gas,  or  the  foul  gases  from  drains  and  cess-pools,  ia 
treated  as  if  from  carbonic  acid  gas. 

Accidents  in  General. — The  first  and  most  important  thing,  after  send- 
ing for  a  surgeon,  when  an  accident  has  occurred,  is  to  keep  off  the  crowd. 
No  one.  except  one  or  two  in  charge,  should  be  allowed  nearer  than  ten  feet; 
and  the  kinaest  thing  a  by-stander  can  do  is  to  insist  on  such  a  space,  and 
to  select  such  persons  as  are  willing  to  go  for  whatever  is  needed  by  the  sur- 
geon or  physician,  so  that  there  may  be  no  delay,  if  any  thing  is  needed.  If 
there  has  been  a  "shock"  from  a  fall  or  blow,  although  there  may  be  no 
fracture  or  external  injury,  the  jwrson  is  "faint,"  and  should  be  placed  flat 
on  the  back,  with  the  head,  neck,  and  shoulders  alighily  raised;  the  liinbs 
should  be  straightened  out,  so  that  the  heart  may  act  as  easily  as  possible; 
the  cravat,  collar,  and  clothing,  if  in  the  least  tijjht,  should  be  loosened.  A. 
sup  of  cold  water  will  bring  reaction  soon  if  the  injury  is  slight;  a  tea-spoon 
of  brandy,  in  a  table-sj)oon  of  water,  every  two  minutes,  gentle  friction  to 
the  extremities,  a  handkerchief  wet  with  cologne-water  held  to  the  nostrils, 
a  fan,  if  weather  is  hot,  will  all  aid  in  restoring  full  consciousnes.s.  If 
thought  best  to  remove  the  patient  to  his  residence,  or  to  a  more  favorable 
place  for  treatment,  place  on  a  stretcher,  settee,  or  shutter,  slipping  him  on 
gently,  taking  care  that  the  body  is  supported  along  its  whole  length;  throw 
a  handkerchief  over  the  face  to  prevent  the  unpleasant  sensation  of  the 


Burns  and  Scalds.— First  put  the  fire  out.  If  the  clothing  is  on  fire, 
throw  the  person  on  the  ground  and  wrap  in  cari)et,  rug,  or  your  coat,  if 
nothing  else  is  at  hand.  B^in  wrapping  at  the  neck  and  shoulders,  and 
keep  the  flames  away  from  the  neck  and  face,  so  as  to  i>revent  breathing  the 
hot  air  and  consequent  injury  to  the  lungs.  If  prostration  and  shock  or 
fainting  is  produced,  a  little  brandy,  repeated  often  until  there  is  a  revival 
of  strength,  should  be  given.  A  sui)erncial  burn  covering  a  large  surface  is 
often  more  dangerous  than  a  deejier  one  confined  to  less  surface.  If  there  is 
any  cause  for  apprehension  that  the  hot  air  has  been  inhaled,  send  for  a 
physician  at  once.  If  the  burn  is  slight  in  character,  apply  the  water-dress- 
ing, by  placing  two  or  more  thicknesses  of  old  linen  (from  table-cloth  or 
sheet),  slightly  dan4)ened  over  a  surface  a  little   larger  than  the  wound; 

37' 


586  ACCIDENTS  AND  SUDDEN  SICKNESS. 

fasten  on  by  slips  of  sticking-plaster,  or  tie  on  with  bandages,  and  keep  it 
wet  by  frequent  applications  of  water.  When  the  pain  has  moderated,  a 
dressing  of  pure  hog's-lard  is  one  of  the  best.  It  may  be  purified,  when 
doubtful,  boiling  in  water  until  the  salt  and  impurities  have  settled,  and 
then  set  away  to  cool  until  the  floating  lard  hardens ;  this  is  gathered,  placed 
in  a  bowl,  set  in  hot  water,  and  kept  hot  until  all  the  water  in  the  lard  has 
passed  off,  when  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  common  soda  used  for  cooking 
purpKJses  may  be  employed  as  a  dressing.  A  thick  layer  should  be  spread 
over  the  part  and  covered  with  a  light  wet  bandage,  keeping  it  moist  and 
renewing  it  when  necessary.  A  good  dressing  for  a  slight  burn  or  scald  is 
the  white  of  an  egg,  applied  with  a  soft  rag  or  brush,  applying  fresh  as  the 

;  a  lather  of  soap  from  a  shaving-cup  of 


lirst  layer  dries  ;  a  lather  of  soap  from  a  shaving-cup  often  allays  pain,  and 
keeps  out  the  air.  If  so  serious  that  a  physician  has  been  sent  for,  it  is  better 
not  to  apply  any  thing,  as  it  may  interfere  w^ith  his  examination  and  treat- 
ment of  the  case.  In  cases  too  severe  for  the  mild  treatment  given  above, 
send  at  once  for  a  physician. 

Drowning. — Death  is  caused  by  cutting  off  the  supply  of  fresh  air  from 
the  lungs,  so  that  the  process  of  purification  of  the  arterial  blood  ceasea 
Life  is  rarely  restored  after  an  immersion  of  five  or  six  minutes,  but  recovery 
has  been  recorded  after  twenty  minutes.  Efforts  to  restore  should  be  con- 
tinued for  at  least  two  hours,  or  until  the  arrival  of  a  physician.  What  is 
done  must  be  done  quickly.  The  body  should  be  recovered  without  loss  of 
time,  from  the  water,  and  laid  face  downward  for  a  moment,  while  the  tongue 
is  pressed  back  by  the  finger  to  allow  the  escape  of  water  or  any  other  sub- 
stance from  the  mouth  or  throat  (no  water  can  ever  by  any  possibility  get 
into  the  lungs).  This  may  be  done  while  the  body  is  being  conveyed  to  the 
nearest  house ;  on  arrival,  strip  off  clothing,  place  on  a  warm  bed,*with  head 
raised  very  little,  if  any,  apply  friction  with  the  dry  hands  to  the  extremities, 
and  heated  flannels  to  the  rest  of  the  body.  Now  breathing  must  be  artifi- 
cially restored.  "Silvester's  ready  method"  is  most  favored  by  physicians, 
and  consists  in  pulling  the  tongue  well  forward,  to  favor  the  passage  of  air 
to  the  lungs,  and  then  drawing  the  arms  away  from  the  sides  of  the  body, 
and  upward,  so  that  they  meet  over  the  head,  and  then  bringing  them  down 
"until  the  elbows  almost  meet  over  the  "pit  of  the  stomach."  These  move- 
ments must  be  made,  and  persisted  in,  at  the  rate  of  sixteen  to  the  minute. 
Another  metliod  is  to  place  the  body  flat  on  the  face,  press  gently  on  the 
back,  turn  body  on  its  side  or  a  little  beyond,  and  then,  turning  bark  upon 
face,  apply  gentle  pressure  again,  repeating  at  the  rate  of  sixteen  times  a 
minute.  As  soon  as  vitality  oegins  to  return,  a  few  drops  of  brandv,  in  a 
little  water,  may  be  administered,  and,  in  a  few  minutes,  some  bee/-tea  or 
light  nourishment.  Persons  at  all  weakened  by  debility,  especially  by  any 
thing  that  affects  the  nervous  system,  or  those  recovering  from  sickness,  or 
in  the  least  indisposed,  should  never  venture  into  water  beyond  their  depth, 
as  such  conditions  predispose  to  '*  cramp,"  against  which  the  best  swimmers 
are  helpless. 

Sunstroke. — ^This  is  favored  by  intemperance,  and  by  debility  brought  on 
by  work  in  a  heated  atmosphere.  Those  who  sleep  in  badly  ventilated 
apartments  are  most  subject  to\t.  Most  cases  are  preceded  by  pain  in  the 
head,  wandering  thought  and  loss  of  mental  cgntrol,  disturbetl  vision,  irri- 
tability, sense  of  pain,  and  weight  at  pit  of  stomach,  and  labored  breathing. 
The  skin  is  hot  and  dry,  or  covered  with  profuse  perspiration;  the  face 
bluish ;  the  breath  rapid  and  short;  and  the  action  of  the  heart  **  fluttering." 
In  manj'  instances  the  patient  does  not  move  an  eyelid,  from  the  beginning 
of  the  main  attack  until  death  ensues. 

Carry  the  person  attacked  at  once  to  a  cool,  airy  spot,  in  the  shadow  of  a 
wall,  or  to  a  large  room  with  a  bare  floor,  remove  clothing  gently,  place 
i^atient  on  the  back,  raise  head  two  inches  by  a  folded  garment,  dash  entire 
body  with  water  profusely,  supplying  basin  with  cold  water  from  two  buck- 
ets, one  of  which  is  tilled  with  water  and  finely  i)ulverized  ice  while  the  other 


ACCIDENTS  AND  SUDDEN  SICKNESS.  587 

Is  supplying  the  water  used  by  the  attendant.  Dash  on  water  with  force,  par- 
ticularly on  head  and  chest.  Two  persons  may  also  rub  the  entire  body,  par- 
ticularly the  head,  with  a  towel  in  which  is  wrapped  pulverized  ice.  As  soon 
as  a  decline  in  heat  is  noticed  remove  |>ationt  to  a  dry  place,  and  wipe  dry.  If 
heat  comes  on  again  when  consciousness  is  restored,  renew  cold  applications 
As  soon  as  the  heat  declines,  artificial  resj^ration  must  be  resortea  to,  until 
the  natural  takes  its  place.  There  being  real  asphyxia,  as  in  drowning,  no 
medicine  is  of  use,  and  alcoholic  stimulants  should  be  carefully  avoided.  To 
prevent  sunstroke,  u.se  no  malt  or  alcoholic  liquors,  avoid  overwork  and  ex- 
haustion, take  plenty  of  sleep  in  a  well-ventilated  room,  bathe  every  night, 
avoid  drinking  large  quantities  of  water,  esitecially  at  meals,  wear  loose- 
fitting  garments,  protect  the  head  with  a  covering  that  will  shelter  from  the 
sun  and  yet  permit  free  circulation  of  air  over  the  scalp;  a  ^raw  hat  of  loose 
texture,  with  a  lining  that  may  be  wet  when  going  out,  and  a  broad  brim  to 
protect  neck  ani  shoulders,  is  best. 

Hemjrrhagek. — Bleeding  from  the  nose  may  be  stopped  by  lying  flat  on 
the  back,  with  the  head  raised,  and  the  hands  held  above  it.  The  nose  must 
be  covered  with  a  cloth  filled  with  pounded  ice,  or  wrung  out  of  ice-water. 
The  head  should  never  be  held  over  a  basin,  as  the  position  encourages  bleed- 
ing.   The  hlyyd  may  be  received  m  a  wet  sponge. 

When  any  one  coughs  or  spits  up  blood,  the  first  thought  is  that  it  must  be 
from  the  lungs.  A  slight  knowledge  of  the  characteristics  of  the  blood  fromi 
dific^rent  parts  that  luuy  come  through  the  mouth  will  sometimes  save  much 
needless  anxiety. 

Bl»d  fr)m  the  lungs  is  always  bright  reil  in  color,  because  it  has  ju<st  been 
pur:£ed  by  contact  with  the  air.  It  is  frothy,  mixed  with  mucus,  in  small 
quantity,  and  is  usually  coughed  up. 

Blooa  from  the  stomticli  is  dark  red,  almost  black,  is  mixed  with  particles 
of  food,  comes  in  large  quantities,  and  is  vomited. 

Blood  from  the  mouth  and  gums  is  of  a  red  color  and  usually  mixed  with 
saliva.     Unless  it  has  first  been  swallowed,  it  is  not  vomited  or  coughed  up. 

In  hemorrhage  from  the  lungs  the  head  and  shoulders  must  be  raised. 
Some  physicians  recommend  a  table-spoonful  of  table  salt  to  be  given  in  a 
tumbler  of  water.    It  is  always  safe  to  give  cracked  ice. 

Bleeding  from  the  stomach  may  be  checked  bv  the  application  of  a  mustard 
plaster  over  the  stomach ;  cracked  ice  should  be  given  and  the  doctor  sent 
for. 

In  bleeding  from  wounds  or  recent  amputation  there  are  three  things  that 
jnav  be  dcme : 

I^irst,  press  the  finger  or  the  hand  ovc  r  the  bloeding  point. 

Seccma,  press  on  tlie  main  artery  supplying  the  wound,  or,  if  this  can  not 
be  found,  apply  a  bandage  as  tightly  as  j)ossible  above  the  wcund.  An 
excellent  tourniquet  may  be  improvised  by  knotting  a  handkerchief  loosely 
around  the  limb,  thrusting  a  short  stick  through  it  and  twisting  it  tight 

The  blood  from  an  artery  is  bright  red  and  comes  in  spurts  with  each  beat 
of  the  heart,  while  that  from  the  veins  is  a  dark  purplish  color  and  flows  in 
a  steady  .stream.  When  the  bleeding  is  from  an  artery,  the  pressure  should 
be  applied  between  the  wound  and  the  heart;  when  from  a  vein,  the  limb 
must  oe  compressed  beyond  the  wound. 

Third,  raise  the  part  above  the  rest  of  the  body,  that  the  blood  may  drain 
out  of  it,  and  support  it  on  pillows.  It  should  be  bathed  in  ice-water. and 
have  ice  wrapped  in  cotton  cloths  laid  on  it. 

If  faintness  ensues,  the  sufferer  should  not  be  immediately  roused,  as  this 
is  nature's  reme<ly,  and  acts  by  lessening  the  force  and  activity  of  the  circula- 
tion. If  any  part  of  the  body  has  been  cut  off,  it  should  be  cleaned  of  for- 
eign matter,' and  at  once  replaced,  wrapped  in  cotton  to  retain  warmth,  and 
a  gentle  pressure  kept  on  it  to  retain  it  in  place.  Circulation  is  often  restored 
and  the  union  made  complete. 


588 


ANTIDOTES  TO  POISONS. 


ANTIDOTES  TO  POISONS. 


The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  cause  their  rejection  b^  vomiting,  to  do  'whicH 

fAace  mustard  mixed  with  salt  on  the  tongue,  or  give  large  Quantities  of 
okewarm  water,  or  tickle  the  throat  with  a  feather.    These  Taihng,  instantly 
resort  to  active  emetics,  like  tartar  emetic,  sulphate  of  copper,  or  sulphjite 
of  zinc.    After  vomiting  has  taken  place  with  these,  continue  it  if  poasibla 
by  copious  draughts  of  warm  water  till  the  poison  is  entirely  removed.     Of 
course,  if  vomiting  can  not   be  induced,  the  stomach  pump  must  be  em* 
ployed,  especially  if  arsenic  or  narcotics  have  been  taken.    A  brief  tabla^ 
formulated  as  follows,  may  be  useful  for  emergencies: 


POISONS. 

Acids. 

Alkalies. 

Alcohol. 

Absbnic. 

Antimony. 

Baryta  ob  Limb. 

Bismuth. 

Copper. 

Gases. 

Iodine. 

Creosote. 

ItEAD. 

Opium  and  other 

Nabooticb. 
Phosphorus. 
Zinc. 


antidotbs. 

Alkalies — Soap  and  milk,  chalk,  soda,  lime-water. 

Vegetable  Acids — Vinegar,  oil  in  abundanoe* 

Common  salt,  moderate! v. 

iSend  for  the  doctor  and  his  stomach  pompu 

Oak-bark,  strong  green  tea. 

Epsom  salts,  oils,  and  magnesia. 

Whites  of  eggs,  sweet  milk. 

Whites  of  eggs,  or  strong  coffee. 

Cold  douche,  followed  by  friction. 

Starch,  wheat  flour  in  water. 

White  of  eggs,  sweet  milk. 

Lemonade,  strong,  epsom  salts. 


Emetics — Cold  douche,  exercise,  and  beat. 

Magnesia,  in  copious  draughts. 

Whites  of  eg^,  sweet  milk. 

Apply  fire  in  some  form  to  the  wound,  thoroughly 

and  immediately. 
Ammonia,  appliea  freely. 

Same  as  for  mad  dog,  followed  by  whisky  to  intoxi- 
cation. 

The  foregoing  are  the  more  common  and  more  important  poiaona  and 
their  antidotes. 


Mad-dog  Bite. 
Bite  op  Insect. 
Bite  of  Serpent. 


FLORAL. 


To  Kill  Earth-worms. — Ten  drops  of  carbolic  acid  In  &  pint  of  water, 
poured  over  earth  in  flower-pots  will  kill  all  earth-worms. 

Sure  Shot  for  Kosb  Slugs. — Make  a  tea  of  tobacco-stems  and  a  soap-suds 
of  whale-oil  or  carbolic  soap,  mix,  and  apply  to  the  bush  with  a  sprinkler, 
turning  the  bush  so  as  to  wet  the  under  as  well  as  the  upper  part  of  the 
leaves;  apply  before  the  sun  is  up  three  or  four  times. 

Ivies. — A  successful  cultivator  of  ivies  feeds  them  with  iron  and  cod-liver 
oil ;  the  iron  in  form  of  rusty  nails,  mixed  into  the  earth.  Another  pro- 
duced a  luxurious  growth  by  watering  once  a  week  with  tobacco-water; 
making  a  tea  of  refuse  tobacco-leaves  and  stems,  or  of  coarse  tobacco.  The 
water  from  the  washing  of  fresh  beef  is  also  of  great  benefit  to  ivies.  Moisten 
the  leaves  with  a  sponge  wet  in  tea,  or  put  t«a-leaves  around  the  plant. 

To  Keep  Plants  Without  a  Fire  at  Night. — Have  made  of  wood  or  ziiu*. 
a  tray  about  four  inches  deep,  with  a  handle  on  either  end,  water-tight — 
paint  it  outside  and  in,  put  in  each  comer  a  post  as  high  as  the  tallest  of 
your  plants,  and  it  is  reaay  for  use.  Arrange  your  flower-i>ot8  in  it,  and  fill 
between  them  with  sawdust;   this  absorbs  the  moisture  falling  from  the 

Slants  when  you  water  them,  and  retains  the  warmth  acquired  during  the 
ay,  keeping  the  temperature  of  the  roots  even.  When  you  retire  at  night 
spread  over  the  post^s  a  blanket  or  shawl,  and  there  is  no  danger  of  freezing. 
The  tray  may  be  placed  on  a  stand  or  table  and  easily  moved  about. 

Window  Gardening. — All  the  varieties  of  Englisli  ivy,  the  hoyacamosa, 
the  passion  flower,  the  jasmine,  tlie  pilogyne  suavis,  and  begonias  are  espe- 
cially suitable  for  window  culture.  Very  pretty  effects  may  be  produced  at 
the  cost  of  a  few  cents,  by  planting  verbenas,  morning-glories,  cobea  scan- 
dens,  and  the  maurandi&s  in  baskets  or  flower-pots,  which  may  be'  concealed 
behind  statuary-  or  bronzes.  The  best  fertilizer  for  them  or  any  other  house 
plants  is  that  afforded  bv  the  tea-pot ;  the  cold  tea-grounds  usually  thrown 
away,  if  poured  as  a  lioation  to  these  household  fairies,  will  produce  a 
miracle  oi  beauty  and  perfume. 

To  Prepare  Autumn  Leaves  and  Ferns. — Immediately  after  gathering, 
take  a  moderately  warm  iron,  smear  it  well  witli  white  wax,  rub  over  each 
surface  of  the  leaf  once,  apply  more  wax  for  each  leaf;  this  process  causes 
leaves  to  roll  about  as  when  hanging  on  the  tree.  If  pressed  more  they  be- 
come brittle  and  remain  perfectly  flat.  Maple  and  oak  are  among  the  most 
desirable,  and  may  be  gathered  any  time  after  the  severe  frosts;  but  the 
sumac  and  ivy  must  be  secured  as  soon  after  the  first  slight  frost,  as  they  be- 
come tinted,  or  the  leaflets  will  fall  from  the  st«m.  Ferns  may  be  selected 
any  time  during  the  season.  A  large  book  must  be  used  in  gathering  tliem, 
as  they  will  be  spoiled  for  pressing  if  carried  in  the  hand.  A  weight  should 
be  placed  on  them  until  they  are  perfectly  dry ;  then,  excepting  the  most 
delicate  ones,  it  -will  be  well  to  press  them  Hke  the  leaves,  as  they  are  liable 
to  curl  when  placed  in  a  warm  atmosphere;  these  will  form  beautiful  com- 
binations with  the  sumac  and  ivy. 

Keeping  Cut-Flo wers  Fresh. — Cut-flowers  soon  drop  and  fade.  Here  are 
some  of  the  ways  in  which  they  are  preserved:  Ada  to  the  water  a  few 
drops  of  camphor  or  ammonia,  a  little  salt,  a  lump  of  charcoal ;  immersing 
the  stems  in  hot  water  when  a  boucjuet  is  first  maae,  and  then  as  they  com- 
mence to  wilt  repeating  it.  first  cutting  off  the  ends.    Have  a  skillet  or  pan  ob 

(689J 


590  FLORAL, 

the  stove  with  boiling  water,  in  depth  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch,  hold  the 
stems  in  the  boiling  water  for  a  few  seconds,  make  into  bouquets  and  place 
in  water;  or  if  you  wish  to  send  to  a  distance,  pack  in  a  box,  and  send  by 
mail,  or  anv  way  you  wish.  When  placed  in  the  water  a  little  salt  or  a 
rusty  nail  dropped  in  helps  to  keep  them  fresh.  In  making  bouquets,  be 
careful  not  to  crowd  too  many  flowers  into  one  vase.  They  will  last  longer, 
to  say  nothing  about  their  improved  appearance,  if  the^  stand  loosely. 
Never  use  cold  water.  Let  it  be  lukewarm,  and  soft  if  possible.  Sprinkling 
flowers  in  vases  at  night  will  help  to  keep  them  fresh,  and,  better  still,  lay 
them  out  on  the  grass  where  they  will  receive  the  dew,  being  careful  to  take 
them  in  early  in  the  morning  in  summer,  before  the  hot  rays  of  the  sun 
have  wilted  tliem. 

Flat  }x)uquets,  made  in  plates  or  glass  platters,  can  be  built  up  with  a 
foundation  of  sand.  Flowers  will  last  much  longer  if  their  stems  are  thruat 
into  wet  sand  than  they  will  in  water.  The  sand  can  be  covered  with  nios8» 
the  flowers  can  be  arran^d  in  any  fanciful  shape  that  suits,  and  they  will 
not  be  likely  to  become  disarranged,  for  the  sand  holds  them  in  place  firmly. 
Instead  of  moss,  leaves  can  be  used  to  cover  the  surface  and  make  a  ground* 
work  for  the  design,  or  bits  of  geranium  branches,  which  often  put  out  roott 
in  the  damp  sand,  and  most  of  them  grow  right  alon^  as  if  nothing  had  hap- 

Sened  to  them.  Very  pretty  designs  may  be  made  of  tin  about  an  inch  m 
epth  in  diamond  crosses,  and  letters,  and  then  filled  with  sand  and  flowers. 
In  making  button-hole  bouquets,  or  arranging  flowers  such  as  roses,  camels 
lias,  etc.,  for  the  hair,  cut  the  stems  off  at  right  angles  and  immediately 
apply  hot  wax  to  the  end  of  the  stock,  then  wrap  in  tin-foil,  or  to  keep 
them,  after  applying  the  wax :  place  each  one  in  a  paper  cone  or  cap  so  that 
the  leaves  do  not  touch  the  paper.  The  cap  shoula  be  sealed  up  with  glue 
to  prevent  air,  dust  or  moisture  from  entering.  When  the  glue  is  dry  it 
should  be  placed  in  a  cool  place.  W^hen  wanted,  cut  off"  the  waxed  end  and 
place  in  water,  where  it  will  bloom  in  a  few  hours. 

House  Plants. — Plants  that  require  a  high  or  low  temperature,  or  a  very 
moist  atmosphere,  and  plants  that  bloom  only  in  summer  are  undesirable. 
Procure  fresh  sandy  loam,  with  an  equal  mixture  of  well  rotted  turf,  leaf 
mold  and  cow-yard  manure,  with  a  small  quantitj'  of  soot.  In  repotting  use 
one  size  larger  than  they  were  grown  in;  hard  burned  or  glazed  pots  prevent 
the  circulation  of  air.  Secure  drainage  by  broken  crockery  and  pebbies  laid 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  An  abundance  of  light  is  imjiortAnt,  and  when 
this  can  not  be  given,  it  is  useless  to  attempt  the  culture  of  flowering  plants. 
If  possible  they  should  have  the  morning  sun,  as  one  hour  of  sunshine  then 
is  worth  two  in  the  afternoon.  Fresh  air  is  also  essential,  but  cold,  chilling 
draughts  should  be  avoided.  Water  front  one  to  three  times  a  week  with 
soft  luke-warm  water,  draining  off  all  not  absorbed  by  the  earth.  Do  not 
permit  water  to  stand  in  the  saucers,  as  the  only  plant  thriving  under  such 
treatment  are  calla  lilies,  and  even  for  these  it  is  not  necessary  unless  while 
blooming.  Dust  is  a  great  obstacle  to  the  growth  of  plants ;  a  good  sliower- 
ini;  will  generally  remove  it,  but  all  the  smooth-leaved  plants,  such  as 
camellias,  ivies,  etc.,  should  be  occasionally  sponged  to  keep  the  foliage  clean 
and  healthy.  Plants  succeed  best  in  an  even  temperature  ranging  from  six- 
ty to  seventy  degrees  during  the  day,  with  from  ten  to  twelve  degrees  lower 
at  night,  ff  troubled  with  insects  put  them  under  a  box  or  oarrel  and 
smoke  from  thirty  to  sixty  minutes  with  tobacco  leaves.  For  the  red  spider, 
the  best  remedy  is  to  lay  the  plants  on  the  side  and  sprinkle  well  or  shower. 
Repeat  if  nece^ary.  The  soil  should  be  frequently  stirred  to  prevent  caking. 
If  manures  are  used  give  in  a  li(}uid  form.  Some  of  the  most  suitable  plants 
for  parlor  culture  are  pelargoniums,  geraniums,  fuchsias,  palms,  begonias, 
monthly  roses,  camellias,  azaleas,  oranges,  lemons.  Chinese  and  English 
primroses,  abutilons,  narcisus,  heliotrope,  stevias,  bouvardias,  petunias^  and 
the  gorgeous  flowering  plant  poinsettia  pulcherritna.  Camellias  and  azaleas 
require  a  cooler  temperature  than  most  plants,  and  the  poinsettia  a  higher 


FLORAL,    .  591 

temperature.  Do  not  sprinkle  the  foliage  of  the  camellias  while  the  flower* 
bnds  are  swelling,  as  it  will  eause  them  to  droop,  nor  sprinkle  them  in  the 
sunshine.  They  should  have  a  temperature  of  about  forty  dejjrees  and 
more  shade.  By  following  these  rules,  healthy  flowering  plants  will  be  the 
result. — J.  S.  Robijisoji. 

Thk  Care  of  House  Plants.— When  plants  are  frosted  sprinkle  with 
fresh  cold  water,  and  place  under  a  box  or  something  that  will  exclude  the 
light  and  prevent  too  great  a  change  in  temperature.  Keep  them  thus  for 
two  days.  After  sprinkling,  be  careful  to  put  them  where  they  will  not 
chill  again.  Horse-manure,  two  years  old,  is  best  for  carnations.  For  bego- 
nias good  drainage  is  indispensable.  The  whole  family  thrive  in  a  compost 
of  one-half  loam  and  one-half  leaf-mold  with  a  slight  portion  of  sand.  From 
September  to  February  give  pelargoniums  only  enough  water  to  keep  them 
from  wilting;  then  water  freely,  and  when  they  begin  to  bud,  apply  a  little 
liquid-manure,  or  add  ammonia  to  the  water  twice  a  week.  Double  gerani- 
nms  should  be  kept  in  small  pots,  as  they  will  not  bloom  well  until  the  roots 
become  compact.  They  require  a  higher  temperature  than  the  single  varie- 
ties. During  warm  weather,  the  foliage  of  fuchsias  should  be  well  sprinkled 
every  evening  to  prevent  its  becoming  seared  too  early.  To  obtain  plants  of 
the  greatest  beauty  in  form  and  color,  plenty  of  light  and  space  is  essential.  Do 
not  allow  the  foliage  of  one  plant  to  overshadow  another. — Mrs.  Prof.  F.  Wood. 

Hints  about  Plants. — Few  things  are  necessary  for  the  successful  culti- 
vation of  house  plants.  A  i)atient,  untiring  spirit  is  most  important.  The 
other  requisites  are  plenty  of  sunlight,  fresh  air,  and  water  when  they  need 
it  It  is  better  to  give  a  good  supply  of  water  when  called  for  by  drooping 
leaves,  than  to  give  a  little  at  a  time  often.  Never  leave  pots  to  set  in  water 
in  saucers  except  for  the  calla  lily.  To  repot,  turn  plants  upside  down  on 
the  left  hand,  rap  pots  sharply  with  stick ;  this  will  loosen  it  from  the  ball 
of  earth ;  lift  it  off,  and  place  the  plant  in  a  pot  two  sizes  larger,  or  in  the 
ground.  Do  not  leave  the  soil  too  rich  with  manure  but  well  mixed,  and 
composed  of  sod-soil,  wild  or  leaf-mold,  and  well-rotted  stable  manure.    Cut 

giants  back  pretty  closely  when  vou  cliange  tliem,  and  they  will  thrive  bet- 
jr  afterwards.  Water  well  at  first,  then  only  moisten  slightly  until  thejjr 
begin  to  grow.  A  good  rule  for  watering  plants  is  once  a  week  in  winter  if 
the  weather  is  mild,  or  when  it  has  moderated,  have  a  gallon  watering-can 
filled  with  blood-warm  water,  stir  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  aqua  ammonia,  and 
as  you  set  the  plants  in  a  convenient  place  (I  set  mine  on  the  kitchen  floor), 
pour  in  pot  a  plentiful  supply  of  this  warm  water,  and  after  this,  sprinkle 
well  with  warm  water  without  ammonia.  In  summer  two  or  three  times  a 
week  is  the  rule.  Ivies  need  large  pots,  and  should  be  repotted  every  year 
in  the  summer  time. 

A  good  way  to  start  slips  is  to  partly  break  off  the  slip,  but  do  not  entirely 
0ever  it  from  the  parent  stock,  leaving  it  hanging  for  ten  or  twelve  days; 
then  remove,  and  plant  in  a  box  of  half  sand  or  brick-dust  and  half  leaf- 
mold,  and  it  will  oe  well  rooted  in  a  week.  Do  not  water  too  freely,  or 
the  slip  will  rot  This  is  better  for  both  slip  and  plant,  as  the  slip  will  get 
XMurishment  from  plant  while  healing  over,  and  its  removal  will  not  weak- 
en the  plant  so  much.  Hyacinths  are  very  attractive  flowers  for  window- 
gardening,  and  at  the  same  time  require  verv  little  care  or  trouble.  Get 
the  bulbs  in  the  fall  before  frost  from  any  good  florist  ( Vick  is  my  favorite), 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  December,  then  plant  each  one  in  a  four- 
inch  pot  with  soil  one-fourth  sand,  one-fourth  well-rotted  manure,  one-fourth 
garden  or  sod-soil,  and  one-fourth  broken  bits  of  moss  and  leaf-mold; 
water  thoroughly  at  first,  and  set  in  dark  closet  until  the  flrst  of  Janu- 
ary, then  bring  to  light  and  ^ve  plenty  of  water.  A  very  good  way  is  to 
set  half  a  dozen  or  more  pots  m  a  large  dripping-pan,  pour  hot  (not  boiling) 
water  in  pan,  and  let  sat  for  one  hour.  After  they  are  done  blooming,  let 
them  dry  out  gradually.  They  will  not  bloom  the  second  season  as  well 
as  the  first —JfTJS.  G. 


THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  FOOD. 


A  MAN  may  eat  his  fill  and  yet  be  liungry.  It  i?  not  the' quantity  but  the 
proper  quality  in  food  that  satisfies.  It  is  not  only  true  that  what  is  one 
man's  food  is  another's  poison ;  but  it  is  also  true  that  what  is  food  at  one 
season  of  the  year,  at  one  period  of  life,  or  in  one  climate,  may  be  poison 
to  the  same  individual  at  another  season  or  age.  or  in  another  climate.  The 
inhabitant  of  the  tropic  subsists  and  thrives  on  fruits  on  which  the  Ice- 
lander would  starve ;  while  the  blubber  and  oil  that  makes  up  the  diet  of 
the  inhabitant  of  the  frozen  zones  would  be  fatal  to  those  who  live  under 
the  burning  sun  of  the  equator.  Even  the  same  ]>erson  requires  a  fmit 
diet  in  the  tropics,  and  one  of  fats  in  the  north  region.  The  child  requires 
food  made  up  of  different  elements  from  that  which  best  suits  the  adult; 
and  the  diet  of  a  laborer  in  the  open  air  must  differ  from  that  of  the  brain- 
worker,  who  takes  little  exercise,  and  wiiose  work  makes  heavy  draughts 
on  the  nervous  system. 

No  one  has  luastered  the  art  of  cooking  who  does  not  know  something 
of  the  chemical  elements  of  foods,  and  the  purpose  they  serve  when  taken 
into  the  system.  It  is  particularly  important  that  those  who  are  compelled 
to  practice  rigid  economy  should  know  just  what  foods  w^ill  best  supply 
the  real  needs  of  the  family,  and  how  the  most  real  nourishment  may  be 
had  for  their  money. 

An  adult  takes  into  the  system  daily,  through  lungs  and  mouth,  eight  and 
a  quarter  pounds  of  dry  food,  water,  and  air  necessary  for  respiration.  The 
same  amount  is  given  off  as  waste  througli  the  pores,  lungs,  kidneys,  and 
intestines.  Life  and  activity  consume  this  amount  &s  fuel  just  as  a  lamp  con* 
Bumes  oil.  Every  movement,  every  breath,  every  heart-beat,  every  thought 
burns  up  a  certain  amount  of  fuel-material,  and  if  the  supply  is  not  forth- 
coming, the  machinery  stops  and  death  ensues.  The  better  the  oil  the  more 
perfect  the  light ;  and  the  more  perfectly  the  food  is  adapted  to  its  wanta^ 
the  more  vigorous  the  body,  and  the  more  perfect  the  working  of  its  intri- 
cate machinery  of  muscle,  nerve,  and  brain. 

Food  is  first  masticated  and  then  digested.  In  mastication  it  is  not  only 
moistened  with  saliva,  but  acted  upon  chemically  in  preparation  for  the 
more  vigorous  and  thorough  work  or  the  stomach.  It  is  a  mistake  to  sup- 
pose that  water  or  any  of  the  various  drinks  taken  at  table  are  a  substitute 
for  saliva.  They  not  only  do  not  prepare  food  for  the  stomach,  but  force 
it  into  the  stoniach  unprepared,  and,  oesides,  retard  digestion  by  delaying 
tlie  process  until  the  water  can  be  absorbed  into  the  blood.  For  these  rea- 
sons drinks  should  precede  or  follow  a  meal.  Crusts  of.  bread  and  hard  and 
firm  food  is  wholesome,  principally  because  it  must  be  tlioroughly  masti- 
cated before  it  can  be  swallowed. 

When  the  food  reaches  the  stomach  it  rouses  into  action,  the  gastric  juice 
pours  from  hundreds  of  little  points,  the  food  is  diluted  and  the  more  solv- 
ent parts  dissolved,  to  be  taken  up  by  the  thousands  of  little  mouths  which 
honeycomb  the  surface,  and  earned  into  the  circulation  to  repair  the  waste 
of  tissues.  The  oily  jwrtions  of  food,  and  such  as  do  not  yiela  to  the  action 
of  the  gastric  juice,  pass  on  and  are  subjected  to  the  influence  of  the  bile 
and  pancreatic  Huid,  until  all  that  is  of  value  is  absorbed,  while  the  waste 
is  rejected  and  passes  off. 
(S92) 


THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  FOOD,  593 

This  mach  of  the  digestive  process  needs  to  be  known  to  make  clear  the 
Why  of  certain  processes  in  cookery.  As  the  juices  of  the  stomach  only  act 
on  the  mrface  of  the  food  which  passes  into  it,  it  is  easy  to  see  why  light 
bread  is  more  wholesome  than  heavy.  The  gastric  and  other  juices  can  act 
only  on  the  outside  surface  of  a  heavy  lump  of  dough;  but  when  made 
into  light  and  porous  bread,  the  outer  surface  is  not  only  vastly  increased, 
but  the  juices  pour  through  thousands  of  avenues,  and  penetrate  and  act 
on  every  part.  If  the  frugal  housewife  knew  this,  would  she  set  the  heavy, 
soggy  loaf  of  bread  before  her  children  '*to  save  it?"  Many  a  mother  ig- 
norantly  gives  her  child  a  stone  when  it  asks  for  bread. 
•  Fats  of  all  kinds  do  not  digest  in  tlie  stomach.  The  gastric  juice  mingles 
with  but  does  not  dis.solve  them.  It  is  only  after  they  have  passed  on  and 
become  subjected  to  the  action  of  the  bile  and  pancreatic  fluid  that  they 
are  taken  up  and  made  available  as  carbon  for  lung  combustion.  Fats,  un- 
combined  with  other  substances,  act  as  emetics  or  cathartics  and  not  as  food. 
It  is  only  when  combined  with  other  food  that  they  are  capable  of  being 
taken  up  by  the  absorbing  vessels,  and  made  to  act  as  fuel  to  the  system. 
A  half  pound  of  crude  lard,  unmixed  with  an^  other  substance,  would  be 
rejected,  but  when  thoroughly  and  skillfully  mixed  into  a  flakey  crust  will 
not  derange  the  stomach,  and  will  be  assimilated  and  utilized.  Remember 
that  the  use  of  more  fat  than  can  be  perfectly  blenrledy  or  any  carelessness  or  imper* 
fection  in  the  process,  is  sure  to  produce  indigestion  and  work  mischief. 

Foods  difTer  in  the  time  required  for  digestion.  Some  fruits  refresh  in- 
stantly, the  juices  being  at  once  absorbed  into  the  circulation.  Some  meats 
and  vegetables  yield  almost  immediately  to  the  action  of  the  gastric  juice, 
and  pass  into  the  circulation.  Others  require  a  long  time  for  digestion. 
The  more  subtle  and  delicate  flavors  and  parts  of  food  yield  first ;  then  the 
«luten  of  the  flour,  the  curd  of  the  milk,  the  fiber  of  the  flesh,  reinforce 
the  blood  and  supply  muscular  waste,  while,  later,  the  oily  and  sugary  por- 
tions are  worked  over  to  repair  waste  or  furnish  fuel  to  keep  up  the  heat 
of  the  body. 

Food  has  chiefly  two  offices  to  perform :  the  repair  of  muscular  waste, 
and  the  supply  of  the  body  with  fuel  to  keep  its  heat  up  to  98**.  Each  of 
these  is  inaispensable  to  health  and  strength.  The  chief  part  of  what  ww 
eat  is  used  by  the  lungs  for  fuel ;  the  rest,  excepting  small  portions  of  min- 
eral substances,  such  as  lime,  potash,  sulphur,  etc.,  goes  to  the  production 
of  muscular  and  brain  force.  The  great  secret  in  the  preparation  of  food 
that  will  prolong  life  and  maintain  a  high  state  of  health,  is  to  adapt  it  to 
the  peculiar  conditions  of  those  to  be  fed, — ^age,  occupation,  climate,  and  sea- 
son to  be  considered.  Variety  of  food  is  nearly  always  at  hand ;  knowledge 
only  is  necessiiry  to  choose  tliat  best  adapted  to  present  needs. 

The  heat  of  the  body  is  produced  by  the  action  of  the  lungs,  which  uses 
op  the  heat-producing  food,  as  action  of  muscle  or  brain  consumes  the  mus- 
cle-making material.  The  former  is  non-nitrogenous;  the  latter  nitrogen- 
ous. Foods  may  be  divided  into  three  groups:  the  nitrogenous,  in  which 
nitrogen  is  the  chief  element,  and  which  feed  muscle  oi)ly;  the  non-nitro- 
genous, chiefly  carbon,  which  produce  heat  only ;  and  those  in  which  both 
are  united. 

It  has  been  proved  by  chemical  analysis  that  the  body  requires  four  to 
five  ounces  for  heat  to  one  for  muscle,  and  this  gives  us  the  key  to  the 
proper  proportion  of  the  elements  in  food,  varying  slightly,  of  course,  with 
seasons,  climates,  occupation,  and  conditions. 

The  substance  richest  in  nitrogen,  the  muscle-making  element,  is  alba- 
men,  found  in  its  most  perfect  form  in  the  white  of  an  egg.  The  lean  or 
Ted  parts  of  beef,  mutton,  venis<m^  and  chicken  contain  nearly  as  great  a 
percentage^about  fifteen  per  cent.  The  curd  of  milk,  also,  contains  a  largo 
percentage,  as  well  as  gram,  pease,  and  beans.  If  muscles  only  were  to  be 
fed,  these  would  be  nearly  perfect  foods,  but  for  one  ounce  that  goes  to 
tnuiscle,  five  canoes  must  go  to  heat,  and  this  calls  for  carbon. 


594  THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  FOOD, 

The  carbon  needed  to  keep  up  the  bodily  heat  comes  chiefly  from  starch, 
which  is  abundant  in  the  vegetable  kingdom.  Grate  a  potato  and  wash  in 
a  succession  of  waters,  allowing  the  sediment  to  deposit  each  time,  and  a 
floury  substance  will  appear,  perfectly  white,  and  dry  and  crispy  to  the 
touch.  This  is  starclt,  and  consists  of  round  grains,  too  small  to*^  be  seen 
by  the  eye.  One-half  of  the  bulk  of  dry  starch  is  cjirbon;  the  remainder 
is  oxygen  and  hydrogen  in  exactly  the  proj>ortion  as  in  water;  and  in  that 
wonderful  laboratory,  the  stomach,  the  carbon  is  eliminated  from  the  starch, 
and  the  oxygen  and  hydrogen  combine  to  form  water. 

The  starch  made  fmm  wheat  is  .seldom  used  as  food.  Sago,  Tapioca,  and 
arrowroot,  so  much  uijcd  fur  puddings,  are  almost  pure  starch,  with  slight 
coloring  matter  taken  from  the  niaterial.  Corn  starch  is  less  agreeable  in 
flavor,  and  makes  a  less  firm  jelly  when  cooked.  These  dessert  dishes  are 
eaj«ily  digested,  and  contribute  carbon,  but  do  not  feed  muscle,  except  as 
thev  are  combined  with  milk,  eggs,  etc.,  in  cooking,  which  contain  a  littie 
nitrogen  and  a  good  deal  of  carbon.  This  food,  then,  is  not  adapted  to  a 
working  man  or  to  growing  children,  who  need  to  have  their  muscles  fed. 
For  persons  of  sedentary  habits,  especially  for  the  aged,  whose  feebler  res- 
piration needs  a  large  supply  of  carbon  to  keep  up  beat,  they  are  valuable 
oecause  easily  digested.  For  others  they  are  of  value  only  to  supplement 
muscle-making  footl  as  a  dessert. 

The  following  table  (Prof.  Yeomans)  gives  the  proportion  of  starch  in  coni' 
mon  grains: 


Per  Cent  Starch 
Rice  Flour,        .        .        .        84  to  a5 
Indian  Meal,         .        .        .    77  to  80 


Per  Cent  Starch. 
Barley  Flour,  .  .  .  67  to  70 
^Rye  Flour,    .  .    60  to  61 


Oat  Meal,   .        .        .        .        70  to  80l  Buckwheat,        ...  52 

Wheat  Flour,        .        .        .    39  to  77 1  Pease  and  Beans,         .        .    42  to  43 

Potatoes  (75  per  cent  water)  13  to  15. 

The  large  variation  in  wheat  flour  is  due  to  processes  of  grinding.  Va- 
rieties of  wheat  only  vary  about  five  per  cent,  but  the  old  process  of  mak- 
ing fine  white  flour,  used  only  the  middle  or  starchy  parts  of  the  kernel, 
rejecting  the  gluten  (nitrogenous  and  muscle-feeding).  The  whitest  and 
highest-priced  flour  was,  therefore,  least  nourishing,  containing  the  largest 
per  cent  of  starch.  Modern  invention  has,  however,  reversed  this,  and  the 
best  "new  process"  flour  contains  the  largest  proportion  of  gluten.  The 
old  argument  in  favor  of  Graham,  that  it  contained  a  larger  proportion  of 
nitrogen,  and  better  supplied  the  body  with  muscle-making  material,  no 
longer  holds  good.  Analysis  shows  that  the  best  "new  process"  flour  and 
Graham  are  almost  identical  in  these  elements.  The  only  advantage  left  for 
Graham  is  the  action  of  the  coarser  particles  of  bran  (the  outer  shell  and 
indigestible}  on  the  coatings  of  the  stomach,  which  is  often  salutary,  but 
^metimes  injurious  to  the  delicate  membranes.  When  flour  and  bread 
made  from  it  contains  one  part  nitrogen  to  four  of  carbon,  it  is  nearly  per- 
fect food,  and  will  sustain  li/e. 

The  substance  which  is  of  next  importance  in  supplying  carbon  to  the 
body  is  oil  (which  is  chiefly  carbon).  The  oils  used  for  food  are  butter, 
lard,  and  fat  of  beef.  Other  oils,  used  sometimes  in  cooking,  are  nearly  iden- 
tical with  these.  Thev  contain  about  eighty  per  cent  of  carbon,  butter  hav- 
ing the  least.  In  grains,  oil  varies,  being  nine  per  cent  in  corn  meal,  six 
in  oatmeal,  three  and  a  half  in  rye,  and  one  to  two  in  wl-.eat.  Oils  and 
starch  serve  the  same  purjjose  in  the  digestive  process;  both  are  useful  to 
supply  carbon;  neither  nourish  muscle.  Starch  is  easy  of  digestion,  requir- 
ing one  hour,  while  butter  is  converted  into  chvme  in  three  and  one-half, 
mutton-fat  in  four  and  a  half,  and  beef-fat  in  five  and  a  half  hours.  This 
furnishes  the  best  of  reasons  why  fats  should  be  sparingly  used,  especially 
in  warm  and  moderate  weather,  when  asuflicient  supplv  of  carbon  is  easily 
Becured  from  vegetable  foods.  Besides,  it  is  a  well  established  fact  that  ex- 
cessive use  of  fats  in  cooking  cause  an  excessive  secretion  of  bile,  ar4  this^ 


THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  FOOD.  595 

In  tarn,  canses  a  sensation  like  hnnser  and  an  increase  of  saliva.  This  is 
mistaken  for  real  hunger.  More  food  is  taken,  and  indigestion  and,  later, 
dyspepsia  result.  An  eminent  authority  says :  **I  believe  it  will  be  foupd 
the  offending  ingredient  in  nine-tenths  of  the  dishes  that  disturb  weak  stem* 
achs."  Dyspeptics  need  to  reject  not  only  foods  in  which  fats  are  mixed, 
but  those  in  which  they  are  a  natural  element,  such  as  the  yolk  of  eggs, 
liver,  milk,  rich  cheese,  etc.  Yolks  contain  twenty-eight  per  cent  of  ml, 
and  milk  over  three  per  cent.  One  condition  only  calls  for  the  use  of  fats 
in  daily  diet:  Long-continued  exposure  to  excessive  cold.  One  pound  of 
fat  furnishes  as  much  carbon  as  two  and  four-tenths  pounds  of  starch,  or 
seven  and  seven-tenths  pounds  lean  meat.  When  the  moisture  of  the  breatb 
is  converted  to  ice  and  freezes  on  the  beard,  the  air  has  no  watery  vapor 
and  is  nearly  |)ure,  containing  a  large  per  cent  of  oxygen.  To  meet  this  in 
the  lungs  requires  abundant  carbon,  and  oils  furnish  this  most  readily. 

The  best  bread  for  cold  weather  is  that  containing  most  oil.  Corn  bread 
ranks  first,  oatmeal  next,  rye  third,  and  w^heat  last.  Of  course  compara- 
tively few  are  exposed  to  the  rigors  of  winter  in  civilized  life,  and  Ibrief 
exposure  to  cold  is  off-set  by  an  increase  of  clothing,  and  ordinary  diet  fur- 
nishes a  plentiful  supply  of  carbon.  For  woodmen,  soldiers,  sailors,  pilots, 
travelers,  railroad  men,  and  others  exposed  to  long  cold  storms,  especially 
when  they  can  not  exercise  freely,  should  eat  liberally  of  fat  beef,  yolks  of 
<eggs,  and  butter.  Butter  is  the  least  objectionable  oi  fats.  Fat  from  salt 
pork  and  smoked  bacon  is  less  injurious  than  that  from  fresh  pork.  Beef  fat 
IS  also  much  more  w^holesome  than  lard.  Above  all,  let  the  cook  remember 
that  oils  are  physic,  and  next  to  poison,  if  not  blended  with  substances  which 
contain  large  quantities  of  starcn,  such  as  rice,  mealy  potatoes,  and  bread 
made  of  fine  wheat  flour.  An  ounce  of  lard  and  a  pound  of  flour  thoroughly 
blended  in  a  loaf  of  bread  is  digestible,  but  the  same  amount  added  to  com 
meal  (already  rich  in  oil)  would  be  fit  food  onl^  for  a  Greenlander.  The 
proper  proportion  of  oil  in  food  in  ordinary  circumstances  is  illustrated 
in  milk,  which  contains  three  and  one-half  parts  oil  in  one  hundred. 

The  next  important  element  which  supplies  carbon  is  sugar,  which  is  con- 
tained in  greater  or  less  quantity  in  aU  vegetable'  substances,  and  largely 
(five  to  six  and  one-half  per  cent)  in  milk.  Sugar  contains  forty  per  cent 
carbon,  the  rest  water.  It  seems  to  be  first  converted  into  fat,  and  then 
used  in  respiration.  In  moderate  quantities  it  has  no  injurious  effects.  A 
part  of  sugar  as  ordinarily  eaten  passes  into  lactic  acid,  and  aids  digestion, 
but  if  too  much  is  produced  digestion  is  retarded. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  sugars  in  commerce, — cane  and  grape.  The  former 
is  made  from  cane,  maple  sap,  beets,  corn-stalks,  etc.;  the  other  from  plants 
which  have  an  acid  juice.  Cane  sugar  contains  twelve  parts  carbon  to  eleven 
of  water;  grape  sugar  twelve  of  carbon  to  fourteen  of  water.  Sugars  are 
changed  by  fermentation  into  carbonic  acid  and  alcohol,  but  grape  sugar  is 
most  liable  to  such  fermentation, — cane  sugar  first  becoming  grape  sugar  by 
chemical  combination  with  water.  Pure  cane  sugar  remains  perfectly  dry 
and  unchanged  in  the  air,  while  grape  sugar  attracts  moisture,  and  becomes 
mealv  and  damp.  Cane  sugar  dissolves  more  readily  in  water  than  grape, 
and  hence  tastes  sweeter.  Two  jKJunds  of  cane  sugar  sweeten  as  much  as 
five  of  grape.  These  facts  give  a  hint  to  housekeepers  of  great  value.  Grape 
eugar,  which  is  worth  only  two-fifths  as  much  as  cane,  is  used  largely  to 
adulterate  the  latter.  The  fine,  floury  "powdered"  sugar  is  largely  grape 
sugar,  and  is  not  only  of  much  less  value,  but  deteriorates  more  rapidly  than 
pure  cane  sugar.  Brown  sugar,  after  standing  for  some  time,  absorbs  water 
from  the  air,  and  becomes  grape  sugar.  It  is,  therefore,  the  best  economy 
to  buy  the  best  white  granulated  sugar. 

There  is  another  element  of  food  wliich  does  not  feed  muscle,  vegetable 
jelly  called  pectine.  This  and  pectine  acid  particularly  abounds  in  fruits 
and  bernes.  By  the  processes  of  ri5>enmg.  tht\  vegetable'acids  which  aro  en- 
closed in  little  c^lls,  Xur^t  ont,  are  diffused  through  the  mass  of  fruit|  and 


596  THE  OHEMISTBY  OF  FOOD. 

manufacture  pectine  or  jelly.  Heat  produces  the  same  effect  as  ripening^ 
and  cooking  is,  in  fact,  only  a  rapid  process  of  ripening.  This  jelly,  when 
combined  with  sugar,  goes  to  make  up  a  variety  ot  delicate  articles,  such  as 
jellies  and  marmalades.  They  are  nourishing,  principally,  on  account  of  the 
sugar  they  contain,  but  are  easily  digested,  cooling,  and  uelicious.  It  should 
be  mentioned  that  nearly  all  fruits  are  rich  in  sugar, — a  ripe  peach  contain- 
ing as  much  as  an  equal  quantity  of  cane  juice. 

There  are  some  other  suhstances  which  a]ipear  in  less  quantity  in  foods 
which  seem  none  the  less  essential  to  huulth  and  life.    One  of  these  is  phos- 
phorus, which  is  an  element  of  brain  and  nerves,  and  is  wasted  by  mental 
activity  and  nervous  excitement.    The  brain-worker  demands  a  diet  rich  in 
phosphorus,  and  in  such  a  form  us  to  be  easily  assimilated.    The  food  that 
best  sustains  a  laborer  in  the  open  air  is  not  the  best  for  those  who  live 
among  the  excitements  and  exhausting  demands  on  the  brain,  that  are  the 
rule  in  city  life.    For  the  latter,  eggs,  most  kinds  of  fish,  oysters,  lobsters, 
crabs,  game,  cheese,  niul,  among  vegetables  the  potato;  and  these  foods  are 
just  what  are  craved  l»y  city  people. 

Another  element  is  sulphur,  which  is  required  in  the  growth  of  bone  and 
cartilage,  the  hair  and  nails.  Of  this  there  is  so  much  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg^ 
that  silver  is  blackened  by  contact  with  it.  Curd  of  milk  and  cheese  are  also 
rich  in  sulphur. 

Iron  is  alwavs  present  in  healthy  bipod,  and  its  absence — paleness — is  an 
indication  of  illness.  Most  articles  of  food  contain  iron ;  in  the  juice  of  flesh, 
in  eggs,  and  in  milk  it  is  abundant.  Lime  and  salt  arealso  ingredients  in  all 
foooTthe  fornier  making  bone,  and  the  latter  playing  an  important  part  in 
the  creation  of  the  digestive  juices.  Linui  is  found  in  all  grains,  particularly 
in  wheat  and  in  milk,  in  form  of  subphosphates.  Bread  and  milk  are  for  this 
reason  an  excellent  diet  for  growing  children,  as  they  supply  not  only  heat 
and  nmscle,  but  lime  that  goes  to  supply  the  growth  of  bone.  Salt  also  ex- 
ists in  many  articles  of  food. 

Men  and  races  grow  in  proportion  to  their  skill  in  combining  heat  and 
muscle-producing  foods.  The  hardy  Scotch  use  oatmeal  largely,  which  is 
rich  in  nitrogen.  The  Irish,  who  endure  a  large  amount  of  hard  labor  on 
chea^  fare,  eat  potatoes,  oatmeal,  cabbage,  and  milk,  while  the  lime  and 
phosphates  are  said  to  be  derived  from  the  "  hard"  water  impregnated  with 
lime.  The  English  add  bacon  (heat-producing)  to  beans,  rich  in  nitrogen, 
and  to  rice,  which  abounds  in  starch  (carbon),  add  milk  and  eggs,  which  feed 
muscle.  The  Italian  eats  macaroni,  which  is  principally  starch,  with  cheese, 
rich  in  nitrogen.  The  use  of  chemistry  in  cooking  is  to  t«ach  how  to  wpple- 
ment  one  kind  of  food  by  another  which  contains  the  essential  elements 
which  the  first  lacks.  For  Instance,  venison  contains  fifteen  per  cent  nitro- 
gen to  fifty-two  carbon,  or  as  one  to  three  and  a  half,  while  the  ratio  should 
be  one  to  four  or  five.  To  make  it  perfect  and  satisfying  food,  we  have 
only  to  supplement  it  with  something  rich  in  carbon,  as  wheat  bread,  oat- 
meal, potatoes,  or  rice.  A  farmer's  dinner  of  salt  pork  and  boiled  cabbage 
is  nearly  perfect  for  an  out-of-door  laborer  in  cold  weather.  The  cabbage  is 
rich  in  nitrogen  and  the  pork  in  carbon.  It  is  a  proper  dinner  dish,  because 
it  requires  four  and  a  half  hours  to  digest,  while  a  supper  may  be  made  on 
Tenison,  which  is  digested  in  an  hour.  Beef  has  fifteen  per  cent  of  nitrogen, 
but  is  not  so  easily  digested  as  venison,  and  is  fit  only  for  a  breakfast  or  din- 
ner dish.  Wheat  bread  does  not  contain  nitrogen  enough  for  a  working- 
man's  diet,  and  butter  eaten  with  it  does  not  supply  the  lack.  Some  kind  of 
Jean  meat  is  needed  to  make  perfect  food.  The  more  active  the  life  out  of 
doors  the  nearer  can  health  be  sustained  on  a  diet  of  lean  meat  only.  Beans 
contain,  next  to  meats,  the  most  nitrogen,  and  are  excellent  food  for  laborers. 
The  cabbage  ranks  next,  and  afterward  come  oats,  wheat,  and  barley.  The 
potato  contains  seventy-five  per  cent,  water.  An  analysis  of  the  dry  mat- 
ter shows  one- tenth  of  it  to  be  uitrc^en,  so  that  its  nutritive  value  is  nearly 
equal  to  wheat,  while  its  great  productiveness  recommends  it  particulaTl^ 


THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  FOOD.  597 

to  denseljMDOpulated  coantries.  A  dozen  large  potatoes  are  equal  to  a  pound 
of  flour.  Tne  onion  is  very  rich  in  nitrogen, — one  onion  being  equal  to  three 
potatoes  of  ec^ual  size  in  nutritive  value. 

Milk  contains  all  the  important  elements  of  foo<l;  yet  adults  need  solid 
food.  Add  to  milk  eggs,  rich  in  nitrogen,  rice  and  sugar,  rich  in  carbon,  and 
you  have  a  nutritiousdish,  easily  digested. 

Butter-milk  is  a  wholesome  drink,  particularly  in  summer,  as  the  nutritive 
power  of  the  milk  is  but  little  reduced  by  the  removal  of  the  butter,  while 
the  sourness,  due  to  the  formation  of  lactic  acid,  aids  digestion. 

Eggs  contain  a  great  deal  of  carbon,  and  are,  for  that  reason,  good  food  for 
cold  weather.  They  are  too  concentrated  for  exclusive  diet,  and  should  be 
eaten  with  coarse  food,  or  tliat  which  is  composed  largely  of  starch. 

In  making  cakes,  the  oil  of  the  yolks  of  eggs  used  makes  the  perfect  bleni  - 
ing  of  lard  or  butter  imi>ossible,  and  hence  unwholesome.  For  this  reason 
aponge  cake,  which  contains  no  butter,  is' less  objectionable. 

Breads  differ  but  little  in  these  elements.  Corn  meal  contains  more  oil 
and  less  nitrogen  than  others,  and  oatmeal  is  richest  in  nitrogen.  The 
easy  blending  of  the  elements,  and  the  tough  gluten  of  wheat,  make  it  tlie 
most  available  grain  for  bread.  Wheat  bread  alone  will  support  life  longer 
than  any  other  food  except  animal  flesh.  The  proportion  of  nitrogen  to  car- 
bon is  one  to  five,  which  is  nearly  correct  for  a  sedentary  person.  For  active, 
out-door  life  more  nitrogen  is  needed,  and  is  best  supplied  by  lean  meats. 

The  nutritive  qualities  of  animals  differ  but  little.  Wild  meats  digest 
more  easily  than  tame,  though  the  time  re<juired  varies  with  the  age  and 
condition  of  the  animal.  Flesh  is  a  stimulating  diet  because  it  is  force-giv- 
ing and  muscle-feeding.  The  animal  has  gathered  from  various  sources  and 
concentrated  in  its  flesh  the  constituents  which  best  meet  the  wants  of  our 
bodies  in  the  most  available  form. 

Applying  the  knowledge  of  the  wants  of  the  body,  and  of  the  elements 
of  food  to  a  bill  of  fare,  and  a  wholesome  breakfast  aemands  strength-giving 
and  muscle-making  food.  Nothing  is  more  quickly  available  than  oee^teak, 
and  it  is  most  digestible  broiled.  It  is  a  diet  for  real  workers.  Eggs  are 
nutritive,  but  less  stimulating.  These  provide  for  the  muscles.  For  heat, 
starchy  food  is  demanded,  but  bulk  is  not  desirable  for  breakfast  after  a  long 
fast.  Bread  and  cakes  of  wheat  flour  are  best  for  the  purpose,  and  fruits, 
raw  or  cooked,  furnish  the  mild  vegetable  acid,  which  aios  digestion.  If  cof- 
fee is  taken  at  all,  breakfast  is  the  time,  so  that  the  stimulating  effect  may 
pass  away  before  the  hour  of  rest  comes.  An  infusion  of  genuine  coffee,  not 
a  decoction,  is  not  injurious  in  the  morning  to  most  persons,  and  is  beneficial 
to  those  exposed  to  changes  of  temperature. 

Nothing  appeases  the  appetite  sooner  than  the  juice  of  flesh.  The  barley 
gives  a  color  and  flavor.  Following  soup  is  roast  beef,  which  feeds  the 
muscles,  and  after  it  come  the  puddings,  which  abound  in  carbon,  to  give 
the  fuel  necessary  to  keep  up  the  animal  heat.  Last  comes  fruit  to  aid 
digestion,  with  its  agreeable  acids.  In  summer  less  carbon  should  appear 
on  the  bills  of  fare,  and  blanc  manges,  creams,  fruit  puddings  and  piej, 
berries,  and  ripe  fruits  should  make  up  the  desserts. 

In  making  a  feast,  the  wise  hostess  would  consider  well  what  has  been 
the  employment  of  the  guests.  A  party  of  fox-hunters,  or  wood-choppers, 
or  surveyors,  would  require  an  abundance  of  meats,  but  a  collection  of  art- 
ists and  scholars  would  relLsh  better  a  variety  of  delicacies  and  novelties.  A 
sleighing  party  will  devour  carbon,  but  those  who  have  sweltered  under  a 
July  sun  long  for  cooline  fruits  and  the  leanest  of  meats.  The  time  when 
a  feast  is  given  should  decide  whether  food,  easy  or  difficult  of  digestion, 
should  appear  on  a  bill  of  fare,  though  such  consideration  for  the  health 
of  gueste  13  hardly  to  be  expected  of  the  average  hostess. 


DRESS  MAEING  AT  HOME. 


There  are  many  women  who  spend  but  a  small  sum  yearly  on  dresa.  but 
only  a  few  on  that  little  contrive  to  dress  neatly,  and  closely  enough  to  the 
prevailing  fashion  to  make  a  ladylike  appearance.    Some  are  so  mistaken  as 
not  to  care  how  they  look.    This  is  a  serious  mistake,  for  a  well-dressed 
person  not  only  commands  respect  and  consideration  from  others,  but,  from 
the  consciousness  of  being  becomingly  dressed,  feels  better,  has  better  com- 
mand of  all  her  faculties,  and  makes  a  much  better  appearance  in  any  circle. 
It  is  worth  while  for  a  man  even  to  take  special  note  of  his  dress  when  he 
has  any  important  business  on  hand,  and  a  thousand  times  more  so  for 
women  whose  success  depends  in  a  larger  degree  on  an  attractive  exterior. 
In  a  man,  genius  may  cause  slovenly  garments  and  habits  to  be  overlooked, 
but  no  genius  can  make  a  slovenly  or  even  carelessly  attired  woman  attract 
ive  or  successful.    There  is,  among  people  of  small  means,  too  much  neglect 
of  personal  appearance.    The  happiest  people  are  those  who  make  the  best 
of  adverse  circumstances,  instead  of  magnifying  trouble  and  brooding  over 
small   miseries  until  they  become  mountains  of  tribulation.    Because  one 
can  not  afford  the  richest  fabrics  is  no  reason  for  dressing  shabbily,  or  even 
out  of  taste.    Taste  costs  no  money,  only  a  little  study,  a  little  exercise  of 
the  brain. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  suppose  that  economy  in  dress  means  shabbiness; 
the  one  is  commendable,  the  other  odious.  It  is  unpleasant  to  see  elegant 
dresses  worn  after  they  have  reached  a  point  beyond  neatness,  but  it  is  posi- 
tively disgusting  to  see  dresses  which  were  poor  in  the  beginning  continued 
in  service  after  they  have  become  ragged  and  dirty.  Ra^ed  is  a  hard  word 
to  use  in  connection  with  ladies'  apparel,  but  it  is  unfortunately  true,  that 
with  some  the  dresses  worn  in  home-life  are  far  from  neat  and  whole. 
Worn  sleeves,  torn  breadtlis,  and  a  frin^  of  ragged  braid  upon  the  bottom 
ought  to  condemn  a  dre&s.  But  when  it  readies  thaf  state,  some  women 
think  it  is  in  just  the  condition  to  wear  when  there  is  no  risk  of  its  been  seen 
by  any  other  than  the  members  of  the  family.  Wise  matrons,  it  is  said, 
advise  their  sons  to  select  rainy  evenings  for  calling  upon  their  young  lady 
frien<lj3,  so  that  they  may  find  out  who  are  fit  to  be  seen  when  not  expecting 
visits.  The  visitors  who  find  a  charmer  who  is,  on  state  occasions,  beautifully 
clothed,  wearing  a  slouchy,  dirty  wrapper,  with  trimmings  half  torn  off  ana 
ninned  up  in  places,  no  collar  or  rufne,  but  a  tumbled  lace  handkerchief 
knotted  around  the  throat,  and  hair  still  in  the  torture  of  crimping-pins,  and 
slipshod  boots,  with  missing  buttons,  may  be  excused  if  they  make  a  short 
call  and  never  repeat  it.  Many  a  slatternly  girl  has  lost  a  lover  by  allowing 
careless  habits  to  fasten  upon  her.  The  time  spent  in  keeping  garments  in 
perfect  order,  and  thus  preventing  shabbines&  is  well  bestowed,  for  besides 
the  comfortable  self-respect  conferred  upon  toe  wearer,  the  clothes  reward 
the  effort  by  lasting  twice  as  long. 

Gratifying  good  taste  in  dress  does  not  necessarily  involve  a  great  expend! 
ture  of  monev,  for  good  effects  depends  less  upon  costliness  of  materials  than 
iJSM) 


DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOME.  599 

cm  the  graceful  and  becoming  designs  into  which  they  are  wrought  and  the 
pleasing  way  in  which  colors  are  combined. 

Women  sliould  make  a  study  of  the  art  of  dress.  Instead  of  extravagance 
it  would  promote  economy.  If  each  would  study  her  individual  style  she 
would  make  few  mistakes  in  buying,  and  find  less  temptation  in  the  passing 
novelties  and  Heeting  fashions  that  constantly  ensnare  shoppers  with  whom 
dress  is  a  matter  of  experiment  rather  than  a  science.  MistaKes  in  dress  con- 
sume a  great  deal  of  money,  and  purchases  made  without  careful  study  are 
seldom  satisfactory,  and  are  sooner  thrown  aside  than  an  article  of  dress 
which  graiities  the  sense  of  Htness  in  both  wearer  and  beholder. 

Fitness  is  the  foundation  of  correct  taste,  and  dress  should  always  be  in 
harmony  with  its  surroundings  and  with  the  age  and  condition  of  the  wearer. 
A  velvet  dress  with  rich  lace  trimmings  might  be  elegant  and  becoming  upon 
a  wealthy  young  lady  at  a  reception,  but  a  dre&s  of  the  same  kind  would  look 
strangely  out  or  place  at  a  country  sewing  society,  worn  by  a  young  lady 
whose  ordinary  dresses  were  of  calico.  Its  inconsistency  at  such  a  time  ana 
upon  such  a  person,  would  be  striking  enough  to  hinder  its  exciting  ad- 
miration. 

Poverty  has  no  more  galling  sting  than  the  fancied  necessity  for  keeping 
mp  appearances ;  in  other  words,  for  sailing  under  false  colors,  and  present- 
ing an  appearance  which  imitates  that  of  richer  acquaintances.  It  is  pitiful 
to  see  women,  whase  good  sense  in  other  matters  is  unquestionable,  wearing 
out  brain  and  muscle  in  the  agonizing  struggle  to  give  themselves  and  their 
families  a  look  of  ease  and  style  that  comes  naturall}^  to  their  richer  neigh- 
bors. It  takes  not  a  little  courage  to  say,  "I  can  not  afford  it;'*  but  it  Is 
Bobler  and  truer  to  .•jay  ii  than  to  hide  behind  subterfuges,  or  more  cowardly 
still,  to  incur  unwarrantable  expense  rather  than  confess  to  poverty. 

*'  Put  the  best  foot  foremost.^'  but  never  do  it  at  the  cost  of  self-respect. 
One  who  is  poor  should  not  degenerate  into  carelessness  and  shiftless  ways; 
for  if  ever  thrift  and  good  management  is  needed,  it  is  where  money  is 
scarce.  There  are  some  people  who  can  make  a  dollar  go  twice  as  far  as 
others,  and  this  faculty,  though  natural  to  many,  is  as  often  an  accjuirement 
as  a  gift.  It  is  the  result  of  care,  though tfulness,  and  an  unceasing  watch- 
fulness, which  is  irksome  enough  until  it  is  looked  at  in  its  right  light  and 
Bet  down  as  a  duty.  Economy  is  not  parsimony,  although  it  has  fallen  into 
disrepute  by  being  falsely  so  called.  That  there  is  no  disgrace  in  savins 
and  no  merit  in  wastefulness  is  a  fact  that  should  never  be  forgotten,  ana 
wise  mothers  who  wi.sh  to  fit  their  daugliters  for  any  sphere  shouUl  care- 
fully inculcate  that  idea.  In  older  countries  economy  is  a  most  commend- 
able virtue.  It  is  only  here,  where  large  fortunes  are  won  with  such  magical 
rapidity,  that  a  few  weak-minded  people  pretend  to  despise  it 

There  is  a  bald  economy  which  shows  its  pitiful  bareness  in  every  point 
•f  dress,  and  there  is  an  econoaiy  which  struggles  to  conceal  its  devices  and 
makeshifts  by  making  everything  appear  to  the  be.vt  advantage.  No  one 
can  dispute  the  fact  that  of  the  two  the  latter  is  far  the  most  graceful  and 
praiseworthy.  It  costs  more  thought  and  effort  to  make  garments  stylis^h 
and  pretty,  but  the  well-dressed  woman  has  her  reward  in  increased  self- 
respect.  One  woman  will  make  over  a  hard  worn  dress  into  a  dreary  gored 
wrapjier  unrelieved  by  trimming.  Another  will  convert  the  same  material 
Into  a  jaunty  skirt  and  basque,  and  from  the  apjMirently  unusable  portions 
decorate  them  in  some  tasteful  way.  Ortainly  the  lady  who  wears  the  latter 
costume  will  be  better  plejused  with  herself,  aiid  grace  the  family  table  more 
satisfactorily  to  her  friends  than  the  other. 

There  are  |^oi)Ie  who  pretend  to  be  too  good  to  care  for  dress,  and  despise 
others  for  being  fond  of  what  they  please  to  call  frivolity.  A  close  analysis 
of  the  character  of  such  people  would  often  bring  to  li^ht  far  graver  faults 
and  weaknesses  than  a  love  for  dress,  which,  kept  within  proper  bounds,  is 
not  reprehensible,  but  rather  commendable. 

It  can  hardly  be  repeated  too  often  that  quiet  dressing  should  be  the  role 


600  DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOME. 

for  those  who  are  unable  to  procure  a  variety  of  clothes.    The  wearer  of  a 
ahowy  dress  is  so  soon  recognized  by  it,  and  she,  as  well  as  her  frienda, 
ffpows  sick  of  it  long  .before  ita  term  of  usefulness  is  over.     A  plain  black  or 
dark  dress  can  be  made  stylishly  and  will  be  as  dressy  as  a  figured  one,  and 
will  not  be  remembered  from  time  to  time,  even  if  it  is  worn  on  every  occasion 
for  a  long  while.     Briglir  ribbons  and  fresh  rutfles  and  laces  will  change  and 
beautify  the  plain  quiet  dress,  and  ^ive  one  a  reputation  for  becoming  and 
tastefuf  toilettes  without  its  occurring  to  any  one  that  the  same  old  dress 
forms  the  basis  of  all  the  prettv  changes.     It  is  in  making  over  an  old  dress 
that  fancy  material  can  be  u.*jed  to  g<KMi  advantage  to  freshen  and  piece  out, 
but  in  buying  and  making  a  new  dress,  when  iho  event  is  a  rare  one,  it  is 
infinitely  wiser  to  buy  it  of  a  solid  color  and  make  it  in  an  inconspicuous 
manner,  not  forgetting  to  get  a  sufficiently  ample  pattern  to  allow  of  a  large 
piece  to  lay  a.side  for  future  alterations  and  improvements. 

Even  a  very  poor  lady  may  dress  with  taste,  and  a  working-girl  may  show 
more  of  it  in  her  simple  dress  than  an  extravagant  and  weiUthy  lady  will  in 
hers.  In  fact  the  ability  to  buy  finery  of  all  sort«,  and  gratify  a  strong  fancy 
for  decoration  often  leads  to  bizarre  effects,  which  destroy  the  beauty  of  ei^. 

Sensive  costumes.  One  need  hardly  be  afraid  of  offending  good  taste  by 
ressing  too  plainly,  provided  the  plainness  is  the  perfection  of  neatness. 
That,  indeed,  should  belong  to  all  styles  of  dress;  for  nothing  so  entirely 
takes  away  one's  reputaticm  for  being  well-dressed,  as  torn,  soiled  or  shabby 
apparel  or  trimmings  Not  only  that,  but  other  unfavorable  deductions  aa 
to  character  and  habits  are  apt  to  be  drawn  of  those  whose  habitual  appear- 
ance  is  other  than  neat. 

People  who  are  not  rich  can  not  afford  to  be  carele.ss,  because  clothes  that 
are  not  taken  care  of  will  not  last  as  long  as  those  which  are  kept  in  order. 
A  small  outlay  of  money  and  a  liberal  expenditure  of  time  and  patience  will 
keep  even  a  meager  wardrobe  in  good  order,  and  will  forestall  the  outlay 
of  considerable  sums,  Et(»rnal  vigilance  is  the  price  of  decency  for  jKwr 
folks.  Garments  often  wear  out  faster  when  not  being  worn  than  when  they 
are  in  use.  Dresses  crowded  into  a  closet,  and  allowed  to  hang  for  days 
under  the  weight  of  a  cloak  or  two  or  three  other  dresses,  will  not  pa.ss  the 
ordeal  without  injury.  Lingerie  carelessly  tossed  into  a  drawer,  where  there 
is  a  confused  assortment  of  other  articles,  will  not  come  9Ut  in  good  order 
for  wearing  again ;  and  tojn  flounces,  mended  with  pins,  do  not  add  to  the 
durability  of  a  dress  any  more  than  does  putting  it  away  with  an  accumula- 
tion of  street  dust  on  the  bottom. 

I  iHandsome  dresses  that  are  not  often  worn  should  be  folded  with  extreme 
care,  with  every  ruffle  and  plaiting  in  place.  This  plan  is  supposed  to  pre- 
vent the  sagging  of  the  drapery  that  is  sometimes  given  oy  constant  hanging. 
Another  way  to  prevent  this  is  to  hang  it  upside  down  occasionally  by  tapes 
pinned  upoii  the  bottom  of  the  skirt;  this  reverses  all  the  customary  folds, 
and  freshens  the  general  appearance.  Of  course  every  bit  of  dust  should  have 
been  previously  wiped  off,  and  for  this  purpose  nothing  is  better  than  an  old 
silk  handerchief.  The  dress  should  be  pinned  up  in  towels  or  pices  of  old 
muslin,  and  laid  away  upon  a  shelf,  or  in  a  drawer,  if  an  emptv  one  suffi- 
ciently large  is  available.  The  importance  of  keeping  dresses  in  shape  when 
they  are  oft  the  person  is  so  well  understood  in  France  that  many  ladies  who 
do  not  Iiave  maids  of  their  own  hire  a  profes.sional  expert  to  fold  away  their 
more  elegant  dresses.  When,  unfortunately,  the  closets  of  a  house  are  not 
roomy  enough  to  contain  good  dresses  without  folding  too  much,  large  paste- 
board boxes  may  be  ordered  from  any  box  maker  or  book  bindery,  which 
will  soon  save  their  cost  by  preventing  injury  to  costly  garments.  As  a  rule, 
put  away  every  article  of  apparel  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  off.  Dresses  must  be 
shaken  and  brushed,  and  if  they  have  been  worn  in  the  street,  thoroughly 
cleaned  upon  the  bottom,  then  they  should  be  hung  up  by  loops  sewed  on 
the  back  of  each  armhole,  and  if  possible  allowed  the  full  possession  of  the 
hook  or  nail,  as  hanging  under  or  against  other  garments  is  no  advantage  to 


DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOME,  601 

%  dress.  Shawls  should  be  carefully  folded  in  the  original  creases  and  pinned 
ap  in  a  square  of  clean  linen  before  laying  away  in  a  drawer.  Cloaks  must 
be  brushed,  and  either  laid  in  a  long  drawer  or  trunk  and  subjected  to  no 
pressure  from  other  gannents,  or  hung  up  by  a  loop  on  the  back  of  the  neck ; 
or  better  still,  cut  a  piece  of  wood  something  in  the  shape  of  a  wooden  yoke, 
such  as  is  sometimeH  used  across  men's  shoulders  to  suspend  milk  pails  to, 
and  fasten  it  up  by  a  string  tied  in  the  middle  and  hang  the  cloak  upon  that. 
It  will  keep  the  back  and  shoulders  in  good  shape.  It  is  a  good  plan,  in  a 
lar^  closet  that  is  often  opened,  to  have  a  calico  curtain  to  protect  that  part 
of  It  devoted  to  cloth  and  woolen  goods,  as  by  contact  witn  dust  they  soon 
grow  grajr  and  dingy. 

Throwing  a  dre«s  carelessly  upon  a  chair  with  other  clothes  taken  off  at 
night,  because  it  is  only  a  common  one  is  a  very  bad  habit.  Ordinary  dreisses 
are  worthy  of  care,  and  pay  for  it  by  presenting  a  better  appearance  to  the 
end.  They  should  be  brushed,  shaken,  turned  wrong  side  out,  and  hung  up 
in  a  closetwhich  has  a  door  to  shut  out  dust,  and  above  all  they  should  be 
kept  in  good  repair.  Every  rip  and  rent  should  receive  attention  as  soon  as 
it  occurs,  or  a  condition  of  shaobiness  will  ensue  that  will  be  a  great  obstacle 
to  making  the  dress  over  when  the  time  comes. 

A  clothes  brush,  a  wisp  broom,  a  bottle  of  ammonia,  a  sponge,  a  hand 
brush,  a  cake  of  erasive  soap,  and  a  vial  of  alcohol  should  form  a  jmrt  of  the 
furnishings  of  every  toilet.  After  all  dust  has  been  removed  from  clothing, 
spots  may  be  taken  out  of  black  cloth  with  the  hand  brush,  dipped  in  a  mix- 
ture of  equal  parts  of  ammonia,  alcohol  and  water.  This  will  brighten  as 
well  as  cleanse.  Benzine  is  useful  in  removing  grease  spots.  Spots  of  grease 
may  be  removed  from  colored  silks  by  putting  on  them  raw  starch  made 
into  a  paste  with  water.  Dust  is  best  removed  from  silk  by  a  soft  flannel, 
from  velvet  with  a  brush  made  specially  for  the  purpose,  or  a  piece  of  crape. 
Shawls  and  all  articles  that  may  be  u)lded,  shoula  be  folded  when  taken 
from  the  person  in  their  original  creases  and  laid  away.  Cloaks  should  be 
hung  up  in  place,  gloves  pulled  out  lengthwise,  wrapped  in  tissue  paper  and 
laid  away,  laces  smoothed  out  nicely  and  ff)ldcd,  ir  recjuisite,  so  that  they 
will  come  out  of  the  box  new  and  fresh  when  needed  again.  A  strip  of  old 
black  broadcloth  four  or  five  inches  wide,  rolled  un  tightly  and  sewed  to 
keep  the  roll  in  place,  is  bettor  than  a  sponge  or  a  cloth  in  cleansing  black 
and  dark  colored  clothes.  Whatever  lint  comes  from  it  in  rubbing  is  black 
and  does  not  show.  When  black  cloths  are  wajflied,  as  they  may  often  be 
previous  to  making  over,  fresh  clean  water  should  be  used,  and  they  should 
De  pressed  on  the  wrong  side  before  being  quite  dry.  If  wa.shed  in  water 
previously  used  for  white  clothing  they  will  be  covered  with  lint.  In  secur- 
ing clothing  against  moths,  if  linen  is  used  for  wrappings  no  moth  will 
molest.  Paper  bags  are  equally  good  if  they  are  perfectly  tight,  and  so  are 
trunks  and  boxes  closed  so  tightly  that  no  crevice  is  loft  open  for  the  en- 
trance of  the  moth  fly.  As  the  moth  loves  darkness,  it  will  not  molest  even 
furs  hung  up  in  light  rooms  open  to  air  and  sunshine. 

Bonnets  and  hats  also  merit  tender  care,  and  should  not  be  allowed  to 
lie  about  and  gather  dust;  but,  after  being  taken  from  the  head,  should  be 
dusted,  the  bows  and  trimmings  straightened,  and  laid  away  in  boxes.  If 
the  feathers  seem  limp  and  slightly  uncurled,  sometimes  holding  them  over 
the  hot  air  of  an  open  register  will  restore  them.  Veils,  neck-ribbons,  and 
cravats  will  also  keep  fresh  much  longer  if  carefully  folded  up  and  laid 
away  under  a  weight  sufficient  to  keep  them  in  place.  Soiled  ribbons,  in 
most  colors,  can  be  restored  by  washing  in  alcohol  and  water,  and,  instead 
of  being  ironed,  smoothed  by  being  stretched  tightly  upon  a  board,  held  in 
place  by  pins,  and  wiped  gently  with  a  soft  handkerchief  once  or  twice  in 
the  drying. 

Shoes  even  pay  for  good  care.  On  taking  them  off  do  not  leave  them  in 
the  shape  of  tne  foot,  out  smoofh  them  bv  stretching  out  the  wrinkles  and 
bending  the  soles  straight.    If  buttons  are  lacking,  iew  them  on  immediately, 

38 


602  DEESS  MAKING  AT  HOME. 

and  if  other  repairs  are  needed,  have  them  attended  to  at  once.  Jfever  wear 
a  shoe  with  a  single  button  uti*,  a.s  it  destroys  the  shape.  On  old  shoes  the 
fit  is  greatly  improved  by  setting  over  the  buttons  as  far  as  comfortable  for 
the  foot  If  the  heels  become  worn  down  on  one  side,  straighten  them  with- 
out delay,  or  the  shoe  will  take  a  {>ermanent  twist. 

Gloves  with  many  are  greatly  abused,  which  is  a  mistake,  because  to  be 
well  gloved  contributes  very  much  toward  a  lady  like  appearance,  and  unless 
one  can  afford  a  constant  procession  of  new  gloves  it  is  desirable  to  keep  the 
old  ones  in  order.     When  taken  off  they  should  not  be  rolled  together  in  a 
lump,  as  is  tlie  custom  with  many,  but  pulled  and  stretolied  lengthwise,  and 
laid  away  in  a  box,  like  new  gloves,  without  any  folding.    They  shouhl  also 
be  kept  repaired,  for  if  rips  on  the  linger  ends  are  neglected  they  soon  get  so 
large  that  in  mending  theiu  it  is  impossible  to  restore  the  proper  shape  of 
the  lingers.     Kid  gloves  should  be  turned  and  the  tears  mended  upon   the 
wrong  side;  they  can  be  sewed  more  neatly  than  U|X)n  the  other  side.    "When 
gloves  are  of   poor  kid,  or   where   there   is  a   weak   portion   which    parts 
easily,  it  is  well,  instead  of  darning  them,  to  work  in  an  elastic  lace  stitch, 
with  silk  of  the  same  color.     This  is  done  by  making  a  succession  of  button- 
hole stitches,  catching  one  to  the  other  till  the  rent  is  filled  up.     When  soiled 
they  can  be  cleaned  at  home  as  well  as  at  a  professional  cleaners.     Wash 
them  in  benzine,  using  (juite  a  quantity,  as  it  is  cheap  when  bought  by  the 
quart  or  half  gallon,  being  very  careful  to  keep  a  good  distance  from  the 
nre  or  any  lamp,  as  benzine  is  very  infiammable  and  dangerous.    The  com- 
mon benzine  is  best     Perhaps  the  best  plan  is  to  let  them  soak  for  ten  min- 
utes in  the  benzine,  then  scjueeze  out  tne  gloves,  wash  them  out  in  a  fresh 
cupful  until  the  dirt  has  made  the  liquid  quite  dark,  then  rinse  in  a  clean 
cupful.    This  last  may  be  put  away  in  a  clo.ve  bottle  to  use  for  soaking  the 
next  pair  that  is  to  be  cleaned.    Now  pull  them  straight  and  rub  with  a  soft 
handkerchief  until  dry.     Place  over  them  thin,  soft  white  paper  and  iron 
them  hard  with  an  iron  not  hot  enough  to  draw  them.     This  puts  a  polish 
on  them  and  makes  them  look  like  new.     If  too  large  they  mav  be  shrunk  a 
little  by  using  a  hotter  iron.     Now  place  them  in  a  towel  and  lay  near  the 
stove  for  two  or  three  hours  to  remove  all  smell  of  benzine,  and  then  place 
in  the  glove  box  with  sachets  of  violet  between  them. 

It  is  an  excellent  plan,  when  one  glove  of  a  pair  has  unfortunately  been 
lost,  to  preserve  the  odd  one  to  mend  with.  It  is  not  usual  to  patch  gloves, 
but  it  often  happens  that%  misfit  can  be  remedied  by  inserting  a  V.  shaped 
piece  in  the  palm;  for  this  and  other  contingencies  a  supply  of  odd  gloves 
often  proves  valuable. 

One  of  the  most  important  things  is  economy  in  the  manner  in  which 
money  is  spent  for  wort.  Many  an  overtiisked  woman,  feeling  it  impossible 
to  accomplish  all  her  sewing  without  assistance,  will  employ  a  dressmaker 
to  make  and  make  over  dresses,  and  herself  wrestle  with  the  weary,  never 
ending  accumulation  of  plain  family  sewing  and  repairing  which  could  be 
done  by  cheap  help.  This  is  not  good  management,  for  professional  skill  is 
always  expensive  to  procure,  and  the  price  paid  for  making  one  dress  would 
be  enough  to  hire  a  large  amount  of  plain  sewing  done.  Gutting  and  fitting 
dresses  is  not  difficult  with  good  patterns  at  command,  and  there  is  no  rea- 
son why  any  one  should  hesitate  to  undertake  her  own  dressmaking.  It  is 
an  art  one  soon  actjuires  and  becomes  very  expert  in  after  a  little  practice. 
Let  a  woman  feel  herself  capable  of  making  a  dress  faiily  well,  and  what  a 
vista  of  possibilities  opens  oefore  her.  Old  garments  that  are  not  worth 
spending  a  penny  upon  can  be  put  to  goo<l  use  if  the  owner  knows  how  to 
fashion  them  herself.  It  is  commendable  to  work  over  old  clothes,  and 
make  them  look  as  new  and  stylish  as  taste  and  industry'  can  contrive. 
ITever  be  contented  with  a  simply  decent  old  dress;  but,  if  you  can  not 
afford  a  new  one,  take  the  time  to  make  the  old  one  tasteful  and  as  near 
the  fashion  as  can  be.  Perhaps  some  one  will  say  you  are  foolish  to  spend 
time  and  strength  on  old  material,  but  judge  for  yourself  if  it  is  not  .ludj- 


r 


DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOME.  603 

clonsly  roent  when  it  brings  as  a  result  a  costame  which  gives  yon  that  com- 
fortable feeling  of  self-respect  that  a  nretty  and  becomine  dress  does  not  fail 
to  confer  upon  the  wearer.  Even  tne  most  showy  fashions  of  the  present 
time  favor  remodeling  and  making  over  dresses.  Two  or  three  materials  still 
enter  into  the  composition  of  street  and  house  dresses,  and  the  greatest 
liberty  of  taste  is  allowed  in  the  shape  of  overskirts  and  the  modes  of  trim- 
ming. Basques,  round  waists,  jackets  and  polonaises,  all  are  seen  upon  new 
dresses.  No  one  style  seems  to  reign  in  any  department  of  dress  cutting, 
which  is  a  great  blessing  to  those  who  make  their  new  dresses  out  of  old 
ones.  Another  point  which  is  of  especial  advantage  to  those  who  have 
real  'genius  and  skill  in  making  over  dresses  is  the  fancy  for  individual 
novelties  in  costume.  Ladies  of  fashion  boast  of  having  designed  a  dress 
which  is  unique  and  unlikely  to  meet  its  counterpart.  Dressmakers  rack 
their  brains  to  invent  styles  which  they  can  assure  favorite  patrons  shall  be 
repeated  upon  no  other  dress. 

If  abandoned  ganuents,  for  which  there  is  no  immediate  use  in  any  form, 
were  always  wholly,  or  partially  taken  apart  and  laid  away  carefully,  instead 
of  being  tucked  away  at  random,  they  would  moke  a  better  appearance 
when  their  opportunity  for  usefulness  occurs. 

In  these  days  of  mixtures  and  combinations  there  are  few  thin^  which 
can  not  be  made  serviceable  as  trimmings  or  to  assist  in  composing  some 
of  the  costumes  expert  economists  make  up  out  of  odds  and  ends.  Every 
thing  of  the  sort  in  a  family  should  be  savea  with  a  view  to  usefulness  in  the 
future.  There  should  be  a  receptacle  in  garret  or  store-room  where  large 
'and  small  pieces  may  quietly  bide  tlieir  time  out  of  every  one's  way.  It  Is 
quite  a  treat  to  visit  such  a  rece{)tacle  when  the  dressmaking  time  of  each 
season  draws  near,  and  look  over  its  resources.  Many  hidden  and  forgotten 
bundles  will  come  to  light,  and  be  greeted  as  so  much  saving  of  money. 
Some  old  breadths  may  make  a  sham  skirt  to  build  a  new  dress  upon,  an- 
other fragment  will  perhaps  make  a  facing  or  waist  lining.  A  great  deal  of 
money  is  spent  for  such  minor  details  of  a  dress,  which  might  be  saved  and 
spent  in  a  more  showy  manner,  if  strict  attention  were  paid  to  treasuring  up 
old  passessions.  Every  thing  of  the  kind  should  not  only  be  saved  but  put 
awaj'  in  good  order.  If  an  old  dress  is  abandoned,  do  not  hang  it  up  in  its 
worn  out  condition,  but  rip  it  all  to  pieces,  clean  the  breadths,  for  if  they  are 
worth  using  at  all,  they  are  worth  cleaning,  and4bld  them  neatly.  Select  all 
the  best  i)ortions  of  other  parts  of  the  dress  and  serve  in  the  same  way.  It 
is  very  disheartening  to  find  material  in  a  dirty  condition  wlien  the  occa- 
sion comes  to  use  it,  and  if  it  is  needed  in  a  hurry,  the  chances  are  that 
something  new  will  have  to  be  bought  to  take  its  place.  The  best  parts 
of  old  cotton  underclothes  may  be  dyed  with  family  dye,  and  u.sea  for 
linings  for  dresses  and  children's  clothes.  For  waist  linings  cotton  cloth 
had  better  be  left  undyed.  White  linings  are  not  in  the  least  objection- 
able where  corset  covers  are  worn;  on  the  contrary,  they  are  Uie  choice 
of  many  dressmakers. 

In  altering  over  old  black  silk  dresses  do  not  use  a  hot  iron  on  them ; 
sponge  tlie  pieces  with  a  large  sponge  dipped  in  clear  coffee,  and  then  fold 
and  lay  away  under  a  pressure  as  heavy  as  possible.  The  silk  will  come  out 
looking  almost  like  new. 

An  independent  i)olonaise,  for  wearing  with  different  skirts,  is  not  an  arti- 
cle of  dress  much  advised  now  bv  dressmakers,  because  a  certain  uniformity 
is  considered  desirable  in  dress,  t>ut  economical  people  can  not  afford  to  give 
up  the  useful  garment  which  creates  such  a  pleasing  variety  in  a  slender 
wardrobe.  A  black  cashmere  polonaise,  for  instance,  or  even  a  gray  flannel 
one,  can  be  worn  over  several  skirts,  and  thus  supply  street  and  house  cos- 
tumes at  little  cost. 

Black  is  handsome,  lady-like  and  irreproachable  ;  and  she  who  is  not  the 
fortunate  possessor  of  one  good  black  dress  is  really  worthy  of  pity.  The 
black  dresses  of  to-day  are  frequently  gay  with  colored  trimmings,  and  the 


604  DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOME. 

Persian  cashraeres  and  brocades  that  are  used  in  decoration  really  li^ht  them 
up  wonderfully  well ;  hut  if  the  purse  allows  but  one  nice  dress,  tliat  one 
should,  by  all  means,  be  all  black,  and  depend  for  illununation  upon  tlie 
little  accessories  of  ribbons,  tichus,  etc.,  which  will  make  it  more  or  less 
dressy  as  required.  Every  woman  who  cares  for  appearance — ^and  everv  one 
ought  to  do  that — ought,  if  she  can  possibly  affora  it,  to  own  a  good  black 
silk  dress.  Alpaca  is  good;  cashmere  is  better;  other  black  materials  are 
very  satisfactory  ;  but  nothing  ^ives  one  such  a  comfortable  feeling  of  self- 
respect  as  black  silk.  Silk  is  still  very  cheap,  the  fancy  makes  particularly 
so.  It  would  cost  a  good  deal  to  get  a  really  rich  plain  black  silk,  for  such  :i 
dress  requires  to  be  richer  than  one  with  a  stripe,  dot  or  figure,  and  will  aI.S(.> 
need  richer  trimmings.  Better  no  silk  than  a  p(X)r,  flimsy,  plain  one,  which 
soon  turns  shabby  and  betraj's  the  purchaser's  trust. 

Patience  and  practice  work  miritcies  in  dressmaking,  and  the  amateur  will, 
in  cultivating  both,  learn  to  study  her  own  figure  and  brjng  out  its  gootl 
points  in  a  way  that  no  professor  of  the  art  will  oe  likely  to  do. 

INTEIXIGENT  SHOPPING. 

There  are  a  few  things  that  every  shopiier  ought  to  know.  She  should, 
for  one  thing,  know  exc^tly  how  much  money  it  is  proper  or  expedient 
to  spend  for  a  certain  article.  Of  course,  she  is  not  ooliged  to  expend 
the  entire  sum,  if  she  has  the  good  fortune  to  find  what  she  wants  at 
a  lower  price,  but,  the  limit  being  fixed,  she  should  have  resolution 
enough  not  to  be  tempted  to  exceed  it.  In  all  probability  the  sum  has 
been  determined  with  reference  to  other  needs,  and  if  one  purchase  is  al- 
lowed to  overstep  the  margin,  there  will  be  inconvenient  curtailing  in  oilier 
directions.  With  the  stern  fact  of  a  slender  purse  to  be  kept  in  mind, 
it  is  weak  in  the  shopper  to  spend  her  own  time,  and  the  salesman's,  look- 
ing at  expensive  goods  which  are  beyond  her  reach.  The  sight  of  such 
fabrics,  contrasting  with  the  more  humble  ones  which  must  of  necessity 
be  her  choice,  will  be  apt  to  produce  dissatisfaction. 

Quite  important  it  is.  also,  for  the  economical  shopper  to  be  aware  of 
the  quantity  of  material  she  will  need.  Rapid  calculations  made  at  tlie 
time  of  purchasing  are  very  unreliable,  and  an  ap])eal  to  the  salesman  will 
do  little  good,  because  the  desire  to  make  a  sale  will  oft«n  prompt  that 
person  to  suggest  a  smaller  quantity  than  is  needful.  On  the  paper  pat- 
terns sold  by  dealers  the  quantity  of  goods  required  is  usually  set  down, 
but  an  economical  cutter  can  often  make  the  garment  from  a  smaller  num- 
ber of  yards  than  tliat  given.  A  liberal  quantity  is  mentioned,  to  allow  for 
inexperience  and  more  or  less  wastefulness  upon  the  cutter's  part  It 
would  be  wise,  after  selecting  a  pattern,  to  measure  it,  and  decide  by  turn- 
ing the  pieces  about  till  every  advantage  gained  by  dovetailing  them  in 
and  out  may  be  taken  note  oi.  There  are  many  ladies  who  manage  to  re- 
duce the  amount  of  cloth  usually  required  for  a  dress,  so  greatly,  that  the 
saving  thus  made  is  quite  a  consideration.  In  expensive  goods  the  saving 
of  a  yard  or  two  will  go  a  long  way  toward  the  purchase  of  another  dress. 

Very  excellent  managers  have  been  known  to  cut  all  the  required  parts 
of  a  polonaise,  jacket,  or  whatever  form  the  pattern  is  in,  from  paper,  (in 
cases  where  the  pattern  does  not  give  duplicate  sections),  to  better  enable 
them  to  make  the  closest  calculation  as  to  the  amount  required.  Such 
painstaking  is  sometimes  laughed  at  and  termed  fiissiness,  but,  depend 
\l\^o\\  it,  any  method  which  enables  a  woman  in  narrow  circumstances  to 
save  a  dollar,  even,  should  be  above  derision.  To  show  that  the  sum  thus 
saved  may  be  of  some  magnitude,  the  case  of  two  ladies  in  New  York 
may  be  named,  who  bought  silk  dresses  from  the  same  piece.  The  silk 
was  four  dollais  a  yard,  and  the  dresses  were  to  be  made  in  the  same  style. 
One  lady  referred  to  her  dressmaker  for  the  amount  of  yards  necessary, 
the  other  made  her  own   calculation   in  the  manner  just  spoken  of,  and 


DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOMR  605 

bought  two  yards  less.  Her  dress  appeared,  after  being  made,  to  be  as  am- 
ple as  her  fnend*s,  and  she  had  the  reward  of  her  deliberate  forethought 
m  the  saving  of  eight  dollars.  Probal^Jy,  the  other  dress  was  honestly  made, 
for  the  quantity  supplied  was  far  from  exorbitant,  but  less  careful  cutting 
made  the  diti'ereuce. 

How  much,  or,  rather,  how  little,  material  will  it  be  safe  to  purchase  for 
making  into  a  silk  dress,  is  a  question  often  asked  by  ladies  who  are  obliged 
to  count  the  cosh  of  every  thing  very  narrowly.  It  is  a  question  that  could 
be  answered  more  accurately  regarding  a  single  individual  than  in  the  ab- 
stract, but  it  is  safe  to  say  that,  with  careful  cutting,  a  polonaise  and  sim- 
ply-trimmed skirt  can  be  made  from  thirteen  or  fourteen  yanls  of  silk, 
according  to  the  height  of  the  lady.  The  upper  part  of  the  skirt  can  he 
of  black  lawn,  or,  instead  of  continuing  the  silk  to  the  bottom  of  the  skirt, 
it  may  be  pieced  down  with  lining,  beginning  where  the  ruffle  is  put  on. 
Even  if  more  material  is  purchased,  it  is  more  prudent  to  piece  out  the 
skirt  with  other  goods,  and  save  some  of  the  silk  to  use  when  the  time  for 
making  over  comes. 

For  ladies  who  live  out  of  town,  the  present  facilities  for  selecting  from 
samples  sent  by  mail  simplify  shopping  greatly.  Almost  all  merchants  in 
large  cities  are  very  obliging  about  sending  samples,  and,  even  if  the  ex- 
press charges  on  the  goods  ordered  adds  something  to  the  cost,  it  is  a  trifle 
compared  to  the  expense  of  visiting  the  city.  \Vith  the  samples  before 
one  at  home,  one  can  make  a  cooler  choice  aiid  use  better  judgment  than 
when  in  a  store,  and  country  buyers  have,  on  this  score,  a  great  advantage 
over  town  shoppers. 

Among  the  many  points  to  be  considered  in  the  selection  of  a  winter 
dress,  is  its  possibility  for  turning  upside  down  and  wron^de  out,  when 
its  future  destiny  may  demand  such  transformation.  It  is  also  desirable 
to  have  goods  that  can  be  dyed,  and,  on  that  account,  mixtures  of  silk  and 
wool  should  be  avoided.  There  are  also  other  objections  to  this  class  of 
goods.  They  are  liable  to  change  color  when  exposed  to  dampness,  and  will 
sometimes  shrink  and  **  cockle  up"  in  a  way  tnat  makes  them  unsightly, 
and  often  useless.  All-wool  materials,  such  as  serge,  cashmere,  flannels  and 
debeges,  and  all  the  goods  of  similar  nature  sold  under  various  names,  are 
far  more  satisfaclory,  and  are  often  cheaper,  even  at  the  first  cost,  than 
the  fancy  mixtures. 

For  those  ladies  who  are  obliged  to  follow  some  out-of-door  avocation, 
such  as  carrying  a  .^subscription  hook,  selling  some  articles  from  house  to 
house,  or  any  pursuit  which  requires  them  to  brave  all  weathers,  the  most 
serviceable  winter  dress  will  be  one  of  camlet,  linsey  or  frieze-cloth.  Kither 
of  these  will  be  very  satisfactory,  if  a  grade  is  selected  which  is  woven  of 
pui*e  worsted,  with  no  mixture  of  cotton  or  any  other  fabric.  If  the  mate- 
rial is  bougiit  at  a  reliable  place,  the  dealer  will  be  willing  to  point  out 
the  difference  between  the  mixed  and  unmixed  worsted  material,  but  (the 
former  not  always  beinc  etisy  to  find)  irresponsible  persons  will  sometimes 
attempt  to  |)alm  off"  the  latter  ui)on  the  inexperienced.  A  jacket  or  snct^ue 
like  the  dress  can  be  wadded  and  lined,  and,  if  neatly  made  after  a  stylish 
pattern,  will  complete  a  walking  costume  that  any  lady  might  l>e  willing  to 
wear.  ^  Such  a  suit  in  dark  grav,  or  "  pepper  and  salt,"*  made  with  emigrant 
skirt  bordered  with  three  or  live  rows  of  black  braid,  and  easj'  fitting  coat 
of  the  same,  similarly  trimmed,  will  be  more  stylish,  and  command  more 
resi>ect  for  the  wearer  than  a  half- worn  silk  or  cashmere  whose  trimming 
show  stains  of  travel  and  dust,  whose  draperies  have  the  dejected  look 
common  to  long  worn  ornamentation.  It  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  the 
economist  must  never  take  advantage  of  a  special  bargain ;  but  she  must 
be  wary,  lest  she  is  dazzled  by  cheapness  ana  tempted  into  buying  some- 
thing that  she  could  have  gone  without,  and  saved  the  money  for  a  beti- 
ter  use. 

The  habit  of  making  a  list,  every  season,  of  the  things  absolutely  needed* 

39 


"606  DBESS  MAKING  AT  HOME. 

with  their  probable  cost,  will  assist  an  economical  shopper  very  mncli  In 
making  her  purchases,  and  dispose  her  to  shun  showy  so-called  bargains, 
unless  she  sees  one  that  will  supply  spme  item  set  down  in  iier  list,  or  can 
be  profitably  substituted  for  something  therein.  Even  then  she  should  use 
very  deliberate  judgment,  and  carefully  refrain  from  buying  in  baste  to 
regret  at  leisure. 

Merchants  in  cities  are,  at  certain  times,  in  the  habit  of  offering,  as  bar* 
gains,  the  fragments  of  Uie  last  season's  stock  to  clear  them  out  before  new 
goods  are  exhibited.    These  bargains  are  sold  (very  often)  for  any  thing 
that  they  will  bring.    Experienced  economists  find  this  their  golden  oppor* 
tunity,  and  rarely  fail  to  take  advantage  of  its  coming.    Remnants  of  sum- 
mer goods  are  to  be  found  often  at  a  quarter  of  the  price  asked  for  them 
on  their  tirst  appearance,  and,  with   a  little  taste  and  a  clever  knack  at 
securing  an  imitation  of  some  of  the   many  fashions  of  the  day,  it  is  an 
easy  thing  to  effect  an  ingenious  arrangement  of  a  few  yards  of  new  goods 
upon  an  old  dress   that  will  delude  the  public  into  tlie  belief  that   the 
whole  costume  is  as  new  as  it  is  elegant    The  point  having  been  thor- 
oughly settled,  ttiat  close  following  of   passing  styles  is  incompatible  with 
systematic  economy,  the  woman  of  small  means  will  not  hesitate  to  make 
her  dollar  do  double   dutv   by   spending  it  for  some  of  these  kept-over 
goods  without  troubling  herself  with  anxious  doubts  and  fears  lest  they 
should  not  be  in  the  latest  of  the  ruling  modes.     Her  choice  among  them, 
if  her  taste  and  judgment  are  good,  will  be  those  that  are  ouiet  and  in- 
conspicuous in  color  and  pattern.     Such  dresses,  be  the  fashion  what  it 
may,  are  always  ladylike  and  in  good  style.     There  are  some  standard 
goods  that  are  never  obsolete;   but  because  each  season  brinss  its  own 
trivial  variation  in  the  shade  of  a  color,  the  thickness  of  a  twill,  or  some 
such  unimportant  feature,  the  infinitesimal  change  depreciates,  in  the  eyes 
of  large  dealers,  the  materials  of  lost  year.    Narrow  stripes,  fine  checks  and 
small  dots  are  all  unremarkable,  and,  not  coming  within  the  range  of  ar* 
bitrary  fashions,  are  never  out  of  date,  and  no  one  need  ever  be  ashamed 
of  wearing  them.    Prints,  cambrics,  calicoes,  ginghams,  and  all  the  great 
varieties  of  the  previous  year's  supply  of  cotton  goods,  are  generally  to  be 
found  among  the  bargains  shown  at  such  times;  and  there  is  no  better 
opportunity  for  laying  in  a  stock  for  children's  summer  dresses,  or  for  their 
mothers  and  older  sisters.    Alwavs  make  up  cotton  dresses  without  lining. 
They  can   be  washed  and  ironed  easily,  and  look  almost  as  well  as  new 
after  each  time  of  laundrying.    With  a  waist  lining  there  is  apt  to  be  a 
shrinkage  and  drawing  out  of  place  in  either  the  lining  or  outside  that 
hinders  the  iron   from  doing  its  work  nicely.     For  those  who  have  to  do 
actual  hard  work,  such  as  washing,  scrubbing,  etc.,  it  may  be  well,  now  tliat 
the  material  is  so  much  thinner  than  of  old  to  make  dark  calico  working 
dresses  with  waist  linings  of  unbleached  muslin  to  help  to  resist  the  strain 

J>roduced  by  consttyit  motion  of  the  arms;  but  for  ordinary  housework  a 
oosely-fitting  unlined  waist  with  simply  a  stay  or  facing  under  the  arms,  is 
Suite  strong  enough.  It  would  also  be  sufficiently  so  for  the  hardest  work 
peoi)le  were  in  the  habit  of  making  the  calicoes  worn  for  such  use, 
simply  with  a  skirt  and  half-fitting  sacque.  Many  ladies  make  the  calico 
skirts  of  working  dresses  of  straight  !)readths  and  no  gores  in  order  that, 
when  partially  worn  out,  the  front  may  he  turned  around  to  the  back,  thus 
bringing  stronger  breadths  into  the  place  of  those  which  are  thin  and  faded. 
The  gathers  are  ripped  from  the  wai.stband  and  the  skirt  turned  upside 
down.  After  a  new  lease  of  life  has  in  this  way  been  secured  to  the  skirt, 
there  should  be  some  way  of  renovating  the  upper  portion,  perhaps  new 
sleeves,  and,  possibly,  a  renewal  of  the  lower  portions  of  the  front  if  the 
waist  is  in  sacque  form. 

The  most  economical  and  convenient  time  for  making  common  dresses 
is  at  a  season  when  more  elalx)rate  dresses  are  not  in  preparation.  For 
calicoes  and  ginghams  it  will  be  safe  to  select  any  of  the  simpler  styles  o( 


DRESS  MAKING  Al  HOME.  607 

walking  dresses.    Plain  percale  and  small  checked  ginghams  combine  veil, 

Ati/I    Tkianv  vorv  nr^ttv  rrkrnhinflt.mns  rnitv'hA   mnrlf*  lAfitili  oalin/^Ao   on/I    rvi>ii-k«-a 


quanti- 
ties required  for  the  ordinary  garments  used  in  the  family  for  convenience 
In  shopping. 

CUTTING. 

In  catting  goods,  economy  of  material  is  a  consideration  never  to  l»e  lost 
Bight  of.  Make  a  close  calculation  before  using  the  scissors  at  all,  and  do  not 
cut  any  part  out  until  you  have  discovered  the  very  best  way  of  using  tlie 
cloth  to  advantage.  It  will  pay  one  to  be  very  deliberate  and  take  no  stei> 
without  due  consideration.  Of  course,  professional  hands  become  so  en- 
tirely familiar  with  their  occupation  that  it  does  not  demand  much  thought, 
but  beginners  will  do  well  to  ponder  and  plan  and  calculate  closely  the  very 
best  and  most  econonomical  way  of  getting  a  garment  out  of  a  given  quan- 
tity of  cloth.  Large  patterns  are  desirable  for  dresses  and  some  other  things* 
but  for  most  garments  just  enough  is  the  best  quantity  to  have.  The  extra 
half  yard,  or  whatever  portion  is  found  to  he  in  excess  of  the  right  length,  is 
often  useless,  and  with  cloth,  or  other  costly  material,  adds  j[>rovokingly  to 
the  exjjense  of  a  cloak,  sacque,  or  whatever  the  garment  may  be. 

People  who  economize  very  rigidly  sometimes  argue  that  buying  paj^er  pat- 
terns adds  too  much  to  the  cost  of  garments  to  be  prudent  purchases;  out 
that  seems  like  faulty  reasoning  in  most  cases,  tor  the  time,  strenj^^h  £  nd 
lalx)r  spent  in  experimenting,  to  say  notliing  oi  the  eventual  iKisc'.o't  wast- 
ing of  material,  would  more  than  cover  the  cost  of  tne  model,  -t  is  an  ex- 
cellent idea  for  two  or  three  friends  to  unite  and  purc*iase  paper  patterns 
together,  dividing  the  expense  between  them,  and  selectnig  medium  sizes, 
which  would  be  readily  adapted  to  their  diflerent  degrees  of  sleuderness  or 
breadth. 

If  the  dress  is  being  made  by  a  person  of  no  experience,  it  will  be  well  to 
cut  the  pattern  out  of  old  material,  baste  it  together  and.trv  it  on  ;  this  not 
so  much  to  correct  possible  defects  in  the  pattern  as  to  guard  against  the  mis- 
takes of  inexperience,  though  even  these  need  not  be  made  if  accurate  care 
is  used  in  following  the  i)atterns. 

In  regard  to  cutting-out  to  the  best  advantage,  imagine  that  the  reader  of 
this,  having,  fortunately  for  herself,  finished  making  her  own  clothes,  is 
about  to  make  a  polonaise  for  her  small  daughter  or  sister.  Let  her  select  the 
pattern  she  wishes,  and,  if  it  is  a  new  one,  cut  &fac-simiU  of  it  in  old  cloth, 
Dast^  together  and  try  on,  making  any  slight  alteration  in  waist  or  shoulder 
seams  that  may  be  needed.  Then  let  her  ascertain  the  width  of  the  material 
decided  on,  and  calculate  as  nearly  as  possible  the  quantity  needed — say  it  is 
three  yards  and  a  half  of  twenty-seven  inch  goods.  With  a  piece  of  chalk 
let  her  mark  off  in>on  the  car|H't  a  section  of  that  length  and  width,  and  lay 
the  different  fwirts  of  tlie  pattern  within  it«  linnts.  turning  and  replacing 
them  again  and  again  till  they  are  assuredly  arranged  to  tne  l>est  jwssible  ad- 
vantage, and  the  whole  garment  made  to  absorb  the  smallest  amount  of  clotli 
that  is  practicable.  Of  course  the  idea  must  be  kept  in  view  of  a  right  and 
wrong  side  to  the  cloth,  or  an  up-and-down  to  the  figure,  it  there  is  one ;  l>ut 
a  little  study  and  thought,  after  the  pieces  are  placed,  will  correct  any  mis- 
take of  that  kind.  Then  it  is  well,  before  talking  up  the  i>nttern  and  brush- 
ing the  chalk-line  from  the  carpet,  to  make  a  rough  sketch  or  outline  of  the 
position  it  occupied  u\yon  the  floor,  and  not  trust  altogether  to  memory  to 
re-arrange  it  uiH)n  cloth.  All  this  performance  seems  rather  formidable,  but 
if  a  beginner  will  take  the  trouble  to  go  through  with  it  for  a  few  times,  she 
will  find  it  like  learning  a  trade,  and  a  little  experience  will  make  her  so 
thoroughly  mistress  of  it  that  she  will  no  longer  need  to  be  subject  to  such 
prelimmaries,  but  will,  almost  by  intuition,  lay  the  pieces  of  the  pattern  to 


608  DBESS  MAKING  AT  HOME. 

the  best  ad*'antage,  and  acquire  the  very  desirable  accomplishment  of  ont^ 
ting  well  and  economically.  To  possess  such  an  art  one  should  be  willingf 
to  take  a  little  trouble  and  make  some  exertion. 

In  cutting  a  dress  leave  the  sleeves  and  trimming  till  the  last,  then  par- 
ings of  gores  and  other  pieces  can  be  used  up.  Don't  be  afraid  of  piecing. 
The  sleeves  should  be  whole,  if  possible,  upon  the  upper  parts,  but  the  un- 
der parts  may  be  made  of  patcnwork,  if  necessary,  .especially  where  the 
upper  part  is  wide.  Even  where  both  parts  are  of  equal  width  care,  inge- 
nuity, and  a  little  practice,  make  it  possibb  to  use  up  very  small  pieces 
when  material  is  scant.  The  waist  also  may  be  piecea  more  than  an  ordi- 
nary dressmaker,  whose  time  is  money,  can  afford ;  but  if  you  make  your 
nwn  drevsses  you  can  sometimes  get  one  out  of  a  surprisingly  scant  pattern,. 
if  you  are  patient  and  ingenious  about  piecing.  The  fropts  may  be  faced 
instead  of  hemmed,  and  narrow  pieces  may  be  put  under  the  arms  with- 
out being  noticed.  If  necessary,  in  a  basque  or  polonaise,  all  the  parts  may 
be  joined  at  the  waist.  In  making  over  a  dress  quite  short  pieces  may  l>e 
used  to  advantage  in  this  way.  It  is  also  possible,  when  sorely  driven  by 
necessity,  to  piece  the  fronts  from  the  armsize  across,  and  craftily  coveV 
the  seam  by  arranging  the  trimming  to  represent  a  square  neek.  Not  more 
than  an  inch,  if  any,  of  the  seam  need  be  visible  between  the  trimming  and 
the  armsize,  and  that  will  hardly  be  observed. 

In  cutting  a  basque  or  waist  from  an  untried  pattern,  cut  the  lining  first, 
baste  it  up  and  try  it  on ;  then,  if  any  trifling  alterations  are  necessary, 
they  can  be  made,  and  the  goods  cut  accordins;  to  the  improvements.  Cut 
it  as  long  as  the  basque  is  to  be,  but  if  it  is  for  a  polonaise  or  re^lingote, 
it  need  be  only  five  or  six  inches  below  the  wsustline.  Soft  twilled  iiiuslia 
makes  the  best  lining ;  that  which  is  stiff  and  unpliable  is  very  objection- 
able, as  it  is  not  only  hard  to  fit,  but  soon  stretches  out  of  shape  and 
leaves  the  dress  goods  over  it  without  proper  support.  Dark  linings,  even 
foV  dark  dresses,  are  now  less  in  use  than  light  White  is  much  used  by 
dressmakers,  but  it  soils  too  easily  to  be  altogether  unobjectionable.  The 
best  color  is  a  pearl,  or  very  light  gray.  For  calico  dresses,  even  for  win- 
ter, the  waist  lining  shoulcf  always  be  white,  as,  in  washing,  the  color  of  a 
dark  lining  will  run  into  and  cloud  th«  colors  of  the  calico.  Both  lining 
and  outside  of  the  waist  should  be  cut  the  straight  way  of  the  cloth,  ana 
the  seams  and  darts  must  be  creased  on  the  lining  exactly  by  the  pattern, 
which  must  be  pinned  evenly  upon  it  Lay^  the  lining  upon  the  length 
of  the  goods,  being  very  j)articular  to  have  it  perfectly  straight,  and  ar- 
range the  different  pieces  in  a  manner  to  save  as  much  cloth  as  possible. 
If  saving  is  a  great  object,  facings  can  be  sewed  on  the  edges  of  botn  fronts^ 
and  no  hems  turned.  By  moving  the  pieces  about  it  will  be  easy,  where 
there  is  no  up  and  down,  to  get  the  side  pieces  out  between  some  of  the 
lar^r  parts.  In  basting  the  pieces  together,  after  they  are  secured  to  the 
lining,  be  very  particular  to  match  them  as  the  paper  pattern  indicates, 
following  the  creases  exactly.  To  secure  greater  precision,  it  is  best  to 
mark  the  creases  with  a  lead  {)encil.  One  can  not.oe  too  particular  about 
hese  darts,  as  they  have  much  to  do  with  the  fit  of  the  dress.  Having 
i>asted  the  side-bodies  evenly  to  the  back,  tack  the  fronts  and  back  toother 
upon  the  shoulders  and  under  the  arms,  the  darts  having  been  previously 
basted  up  by  the  marks  on  the  pattern.  Try  on  the  w^aist,  and,  if  it  ie 
right,  sew  up  the  seams  on  the  sewing  maehine  and  work  the  button-hole- 
Before  cutting  these  (if  the  goods  ravel  very  easy)  outline  each  one  by  a 
row  of  machine  stitching,  leaving  only  room  to  cut  the  button-hole  between 
the  lines  of  stitching,  and,  in  working  it,  take  the  stitches  deep  enough  to 
cover  the  line,  the  same  as  when  it  is  run  around  by  hand.  If  it  does  not 
fit,  the  amateur  dressmaker  need  not  fall  into  despair,  for,  probably,  a 
judicious  taking  in  of  the  seams  will  make  it  all  right  If  the  dress  is  for 
a  person  with  some  peculiarities  of  figure  it  will  be  necessary  to  study 
that  in  fitting;   if,  for  instance^  the  waist  is  very  tapering,  the  seams  wiU 


DBESS  MAKING  AT  HOME.  609 

liave  to  be  more  deeply  sloped  than  the  paper  pattern  being  cut  for  the 
iiverage  figure  will  indicate.  If  the  person  being  fitted  has  a  hoUowine 
K»ack,  a  plait  or  dart  laid  in  the  middle  of  th^  back  of  the  lining  will 
lecure  a  oetter  fit. 

Long  seams  in  the  back,  extending  to  the  shoulder,  are  more  becoming 
k>  stout  people  than  side  bodies  ending  at  the  tirmsize.  If  the  8houlder» 
project,  an  allowance  can  be  made  by  leaving  the  back  longer  than  the 
tides.  If  one  shoulder  is  more  prominent  than  the  other,  the  defect  should 
be  skillfully  disguised  by  putting  a  layer  of  cotton  upon  the  other  side, 
lo  that  the  difference  need  not  be  noticed.  If  the  arms  are  very  thin,  a 
sheet  of  cotton  may  be  put  between  the  outside  and  the  lining  of  the 
upper  part.  Many  dressmakers  follow  this  plan,  wherever  the  arm  is  not 
too  large  to  admit  admit  of  it,  to  secure  a  well -fitting  slee^'e,  the  short 
shoulders  now  worn  to  dresses  requiring  some  adroitness  in  putting  them 
in  nicely,  unless  the  material  is  thicK  like  velvet,  or  is  made  so  by- 
wadding 

The  next  step  in  making  the  dress  is  to  finish  the  sleeves.  They  should 
be  slipped  on  the  arm  while  the  waist  is  on,  and  pinned  to  the  sKoulders. 
Very  much  depends  upon  the  fit  of  the  sleeves,  and,  even  if  cut  from  the 
best  of  patterns,  they  may  wrinkle  and  set  awry  unless  put  into  the  arm- 
hole  properly.  The  latter  must  not  be  too  tight  or  cut  out  too  much  in 
the  back. 

After  a  basque  or  polonaise  is  finished,  it  should  have  a  strong  belt 
sewed  to  the  back  and  side  seams,  upon  the  inside,  to  fasten  the  front,  for 
the  double  purpose  of  keeping  the  waist  in  place  and  relieving  the  strain 
upon  the  buttons. 

Putting  a  garment  together  when  it  is  carefully  cut  is  a  much  easier  task 
than  when  the  separate  pieces  are  not  accurate,  and  require  much  measur- 
ing and  trimming  before  they  can  be  nicely  adjusted  to  each  other.  If 
lining  is  put  into  either  a  part  or  the  whole  of  an  article  it  must  be  tacked 
upon  the  back  of  the  pieces  before  they  are  basted  together.  Care  must  be 
taken  in  basting  not  to  stretch  the  seams  out  of  shape.  In  making  up  cloth. 
the  seams,  after  being  stitched  upon  a  sewing  machine,  should  l:)e  laid 
upon  and  pressed  down  with  a  heavy  hot  iron.  Each  raw  edge  may  then 
be  bound  with  a  narrow  ribbon  or  galloon.  This  will  give  a  neat  finish 
to  the  wrong  side  and  and  keep  the  threads  from  raveling.  In  very  thick 
cloth  the  seams,  after  pressing,  should  have  a  galloon  laid  over  them,  and 
hemmed  dow*n  slightly,  not  letting  the  stitches  show  upon  the  right  side ; 
or,  with  a  cloth  with  a  shaggy  face,  the  seam  may  be  sewed  up  and  fin- 
ished at  the  back  with  a  wide  fell,  which  must  be  pressed  flat.  Thin  ma- 
terials, such  as  mohairs,  grenadines,  etc.,  if  made  up  without  lining,  are 
most  neatly  finished  if  the  pieces  are  stitched  together  on  the  right  side 
and  then  turned  and  sewed  again  upon  the  wrong  side.  This  keeps  the 
garment  in  better  shape  than  the  usual  running  and  felling. 

The  next  thing  upon  the  programme  after  putting  on  whalebone  casings, 
is  to  face  the  bottom  of  the  basque.  It  is  then  ready  for  the  trimming, 
which  can  be  put  on  in  accordance  with  the  taste  of  "the  designer.  Many 
ladies  wear  adjustable  waist  trimmings.  A  bias  band  of  the  material,  foV 
instance,  with  both  edges  trimmed  with  gimi)  or  tiny  side- plai tings,  which 
goes  around  the  neck  and  meets  or  crosses  in  front,  half-way  between  the 
fchroat  and  belt.  This  is  left  off  at  pleasure,  to  make  room  for  a  dainty- 
fichu  of  mull  or  colored  silk,  or  for  a  becoming  little  slioulder  cape  of 
beads.  These  very  expensive-looking  little  adjuncts  to  a  dressy  toilet  can 
be  made  at  home  by  ladies  who  have  any  leisure  to  spend  in  fancv  work. 
Almost  everj'  young  person  has  some  nnddle-aged  friend  who  will  teach 
her  how  to  make  the  bead  fringes  which,  in  former  days,  decorated  the 
square  ends  of  crotcheted  silk  purses.  Those  fringes  were  made  of  fin© 
steel  beads,  and  the  netted  heading  done  with  an  ordinary  sewing  needle. 
The  beads  now  used  are  cut-jets  of  a  much  larger  size,  and  three  rows  of 


610  DRESS  MAKING  A  T  HOME. 

the  fringe  are  set  upon  a  lace  foundation,  or  even  sewed  together  over  » 
paper  pattern,  without  other  foundation  than  a  row  of  gimp  between  each 
fringe,  which  is  concealed  4y  the  falling  strands  of  beads.  Trimmings  for 
the  tahliers  of  rich  dresses  are  made  in  a  similar  manner  by  some  ladies, 
who  also  imitate  wi til  their  own  ingenious  tineers  the  gor^ous  seventy-five 
and  fifty -dollar  fabricrs  which  are  sold  in   modest  quantities  for  trimming. 

In  cutting  a  dress  from  plaid  goods,  if  the  check  is  at  all  conspicuous,  it 
must  be  arranged  with  care,  or  very  ugly  effects  will  be  produced.  On  the 
waist,  particularly,  the  plaids  should  match  exactly  where  the  fronts  meet. 
In  cutting  out  gixids  that  are  striped,  have  a  whole  stripe  appear  in  the  cen- 
ter of  tl»e  front,  and  have  the  side-forms  in  the  back  present  a  perfectly- 
mntched  appearance.  The  same  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  sleeves,  hav- 
iii.^  a  care,  as  in  all  materials,  tjiat  the  parts  above  the  elbows  run  with  the 
threaci  lenjjthwavs  of  the  cloth.  If  the  sleeve  pattern  is  too  short,  len^hen 
it  equally  at  both  ends;  unless  this  is  observed,  the  set  of  it  will  changed. 

A  round  skirt  is  easily  made  with  an  old,  well-fitting  skirt,  or  a  paper  pat^ 
tern  as  a  guide.  The  .straight  side  of  each  eore  must  be  toward  the  fronts 
The  seam  in  the  front  is  not  to  be  endured,  and  one  in  the  back  is  to  be 
avoided,  if  possible,  u)M)n  any  skirt  which  is  not  to  be  worn  beneath  a  polo- 
naisfc  or  overskirt:  but  for  an  underskirt  all  things  are  possible  in  the  way  of 
piocingH  and  joinings.  In  making  a  trained  or  demi-trained  skirt,  if  it  should 
api)ear  scjinty  and  hoop  in  the  back,  make  a  cut  in  the  edge  deep  enough  to 
relieve  it,  and  set  in  a  V-shaped  gore,  which  may  be  concealed  oy  the  trim- 
ming, or  cut  shorter  slits  upon  each  side  and  set  in  gores. 

Machine  stitching  is  used  upon  dresses  and  trimmings.  Even  cashmere 
and  silk  ruffles  are  hemmed  on  the  machine  instead  of  being  laboriously 
blind-stitehed,  although  the  latter  mode  is  not  out  of  date  with  those  who  do 
not  mind  trouble.  It  is  now  acknowledged  by  the  best  dressmakers  that 
nothing  equals  coarse  alpaca  or  brilliantine  for  a  skirt  facing.  Nearly  every 
color  can  be  matched  in  it.  and  it  looks  well,  wears  well  and  sheds  the  dirt 
admirablv.  Braid  is  now  usually  put  on  the  back  of  the  skirt  and  not  felled 
down  as  formerly.  About  a  third  of  its  width  is  allowed  to  project  below 
the  Hkirt.  which  is  thought  to  hang  better  than  when  bound  with  the  braid. 
It  should  be  sewed  on  by  hand  after  the  dress  is  finished,  not  set  in  between 
the  facing  and  outside,  as  is  s^imetimes  done.  When  it  becomes  ragged  it  ia 
a  simple  matter  to  rip  it  ofif  and  put  on  a  fresh  one. 

RENOVATING. 

If  the  silk  is  very  dirty,  spread  each  breadth  on  a  large  table,  and  sponge 
it  ui)on  both  sides  with  warm  water  mixed  with  ox  gall. — Rinse  the  silk  sev- 
eral times  in  clear  cold  water,  changing  the  water  each  time.  Then  sponge 
it  upon  the  wrong  side  with  a  very  weak  solution  of  glue.  Try  the  experi- 
ment first  on  a  scrap  of  the  goods  till  you  find  it  as  stiff  as  new  silk  should 
be.  Dry  the  silk,  and  then  roll  it  up  in  a  damp  towel  and  after  two  or  three 
hours  iron  it  upon  the  wrong  side  with  a  moderately  hot  iron. 

Black,  and  some  dark  shades  of  cashmere,  may  be  cleaned  by  the  same 
]>rf)ce.ss. 

Where  a  black  silk  has  a  shiny,  greasy  look,  its  freshness  can  frequently  be 
restored  by  sponging  it  with  anmionia  without  ripping  up  the  dress.  Where 
a  silk  of  any  color  becomes  more  defaced  with  spots  than  actually  soiled,  the 
spots  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  them  with  a  mixture  made  by  putting  h^f 
an  oinice  of  camphor  and  an  ounce  of  borax  in  boiling  water,  and  adding  to 
it  when  cool  a  teacup  of  alcohol  and  half  that  quantity  of  ammonia. 

A  favorite  way  of  cleaning  and  restoring  silk,  is  by  sponging  it  with  a  prep- 
aration made  by  boiling  a  large,  unpeeled  potato  and  a  kid  glove  together  for 
a  longtime.  The  glove  should  of  the  color  of  the  silk,  and  if  the  shade  ia 
very  Tight,  the  im)UiIo  must  have  the  skin  removed  before  boiling.  After  th* 
mixture  is  cool  add  a  small  qiumtity  of  ammonia  if  the  silk  is  very  dirty* 


DBES8  MAKING  AT  HOME.  611 

Noglue  or  gnm  will  be  needed,  as  the  glove  furnishes  the  proper  degree  of 
stlfiSning.    After  sponging  and  wiping, with  a  dry  cloth,  fold  the  silk  in  as 
nearly  as  possible  the  form  of  new  silK,  or  rollo^  upon  a  rod  covered  with 
tiiick  cloth.    Avoid  ironing  it  if  possible,  as  the  Texture  of  the  silk  is  better 

S reserved  without  the  application  of  heat;  but  if  the  wrinkles  do  not 
isappear,  press  it  on  the  wrong  side  with  as  cool  an  iron  as  can  be  efficiently 
used.  The  glove  and  potato  treatment  is  excellent  for  restoring  black  of  afl 
kinds,  even  veils  and  shawls. 

Another  way  of  cleaning  black  silk  is  first  to  thoroughly  brush  and  wipe 
with  a  cloth,  then  lay  flat  on  a  board  or  table  and  sponge  well  with  hot  coflfee 
thoroughly  freed  from  sediment  by  being  strained  through  muslin.  iSponge 
on  the  side  intended  to  show,  allow  to  become  partially  dry  and  then  iron  on 
the  wrong  side.  The  coffee  removes  every  particle  of  grease  and  restores  the 
brilliancy  of  silk  without  imparting  to  it  either  the  shiny  appearance  or 
cracklv  and  papery  stififhess  obtained  by  beer  or,  indeed,  any  otlier  liquid. 
The  silk  really  appears  thickened  by  the  process,  and  this  good  effect  is  per- 
manent 

The  following  method  of 'cleaning  silks  has  many  advocates,  and  is  said 
to  be  admirably  adapted  for  delicate  evening  shades:  To  a  quarter  of  & 
pound  of  soft  soap  put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  large  cofieecupful  ol 
alcohol.  Wet  the  silk  all  over  with  the  mixture,  then  rinse  it  in  several 
waters,  being  careful  not  to  crease  it  Let  it  dry  partially,  and  iron  it 
upon  the  wrong  side,  unless  it  is  smooth  enough  after  rubbing  with  a  soft 
towel.  There  is  a  great  difference  in  silks  in  this  respect  Some  that  are 
very  soft  and  of  rich  equality  will  be  smooth  and  unwrinkled  after  cleaning, 
if  simply  smoothed  with  the  hands  and  carefully  folded ;  others  need  thor- 
ough pressing  with  an  iron  to  put  them  in  good  shaj^.  Heat  takes  the- 
stiffening  from  silk,  and,  if  it  is  found  necessary  to  iron  it,  it  is  well  to 
dry  it  and  then  dampen  with  water  in  which  a  little  gum  or  glue  has  been 
dissolved.     The  wisest  way,  as  suggested  above,  Is,  in  any  of  the  methods 

S'ven  to  try  the  whole  process  upon  a  small  piece  of  the  silk  to  be  cleaned, 
bservation  will  then  indicate*!!  any  change  is  needed  in  the  operation. 
All  of  these  receipts  have  been  tried  with  very  good  results;  but  to  get  a 
good  result  in  cleaning  silk  takes  time,  patience  and  backache. 

If  silk,  after  having  been  done  over,  or  refinished,  as  it  is  called,  looks 
well  enough  to  make  up  again  as  a  dress,  it  is  very  important  that  new 
linings  should  be  used.  Save  the  old  ones  to  line  every-day  dresses,  but  be- 
sure  to  buy  new  waist  and  sleeve  linings  for  the  silk,  or  it  will  fall  into 
the  creases  and  folds  that  wearing  has  produced  in  the  muslin,  and  have  an 
old  expression  in  spite  of  all  the  trouble  that  it  has  cost  If  the  silk  is  to 
be  cut  up  for  trimmings  it  will  pay  to  line  them.  Bias  frilLs  and  side^ 
plaited  ruffles  can  be  lined  with  coarse  Swiss  and  folds  and  bias  bands  in- 
terlined with  old  thin  muslin  which  has  been  nicely  starched  and  ironed. 
Attention  to  these  small  details  will  do  much  toward  giving  a  new  look  to 
the  material. 

Grease  spots  in  any  goods  should  be  taken  off  as  soon  as  they  appear,  aa 
they  yield  to  treatment  much  more  readily  before  dirt  finds  a  lodgment  in 
them.  Benzine  is  one  of  the  best  a^jcmcies  in  use  for  removing  grease  from 
woolen  dresses.  Some  people  consider  it  best  to  wet  the  spot  first  with 
cold  water,  and  apply  the  benzine  within  the  circumference  of  the  water- 
mark, asserting  that  eVen  upon  colored  silk  fabrics  no  trace  of  the  benzine 
will  be  left  after  exposure  to  the  air. 

Taking  out  spots  which  have  destroyed  or  impaired  the  original  color  is 
a 'difficult  matter  and  one  that  will  need  experimenting  upon  in  each  ca.se. 
Sometimes  a  mixture  of  camphor  iand  borax  is  efficacious,  and  in  others 
strong  beer  is  a  beneficial  application.  If  acids  have  caused  the  trouble,  a 
weak  solution  of  ammonia  will  often  have  a  good  effect.  Sometimes  au 
application  of  liquid  blacking  upon  the  faded  or  discolored  spot  mends  the 
matter,  but  that  succeeds  best  on  material  that  has  a  nap  or  rough  surface. 


612  DBESS  MAKING  AT  HOMK 

A  solution  made  l>y  boiling  log^i'ood  chips  in  a  little  water  is  said  to  be 
very  good  for  restoring  tiie  color  of  black  castimere  and  tbe  other  smooth 
woolen  goods.  It  sliould  b^  applied  to  the  spot  with  a  sponge,  and  the  op- 
eration should  be  repeated  several  times,  drying  the  goods  after  each  ap- 
plication, and  linally  pressing  it  with  a  warm  iron. 

Men  have  been  heard  to  say  that  women  never  brush  their  dresses.  How- 
ever untrue  that  sweeping  assertion  may  be,  it  is  certain  that  too  little  at- 
tention is  paid  to  freeing  dresses  from  the  dust  of  the  house  and  soil  of 
the  street.  It  is  an  excellent  plan,  upon  taking  off  a  dress,  to  brush  it 
carefully  all  over  with  a  small  (not  too  stiff)  wisp  broom,  giving  particular 
care  to  all  trimmings  where  plaits  or  gathers  make  lodgments  for  the  dust. 
If  there  is  much  uix)n  the  dress,  rub  it  off  with  a  coarse  towel  or  a  wad 
of  worsted  goods.  An  excellent  brush  for  cleaning  woolen  or  silk  dresses 
caTi  be  made  by  covering  a  square  block  of  wood  with  furniture  plush. 

Ladies  who  are  in  mourning  suffer  much  inconvenience  from  the  injury 
caused  by  drops  of  water  falling  upon  their  crape,  for  each  drop  makes  a 
conspicuous  white  mark.  If,  while  wet,  these  are  clapped  between  the 
lianas  until  dry,  no  spots  will  appear.  If  the  crape  has  dried  without  their 
removal,  lay  it  upon  a  table  and  out  under  spots  a  piece  of  old  black  silk ; 
dip  a  cameVs  hair  pencil  in  black  ink  and  paint  the  spots  lightly;  then 
wipe  them  off  with  old  soft  silk^  and  the  color  will  be  restored. 

rartly  worn  fabrics  may  often  be  profitably  renewed  by  calling  in  the 
dyer's  art  Some  people  have  excellent  success  in  usin^  tamily  dyes,  and 
for  them  it  will  be  an  object  to  color  many  useful  things,  for  which  it 
would  not  be  worth  while  to  pay  a  professional  dyer's  charge.  Ribbons, 
neckties,  trimmings  and  many  small  things  which  need  patience  and  care- 
ful manipulation  can  be  colored  beautifully  at  home.  Stockings,  linings, 
and  odds  and  ends  that  might  not  otherwise  be  used,  can  also  be  advan- 
tageously subjected  to  the  amateur  process,  but  for  material  that  is  to  be  re- 
made into  dresses  it  would  be  wisdom  to  employ  the  best  professional 
skill.  Some  things,  such  as  merinos  and  cashmere,  are  worth  dyeing  at 
almost  any  price,  and  will  look  like  new  when  they  are  done.  Silk  dyes 
well  for  some  purposes,  but  will  never  look  like  new  after  the  process,  even 
if  the  dyer  promises  that  it  will;  hence  it  is  a  mistake  to  use  it  conspic- 
uously after  dyeing.  It  can  be  used  as  the  basis  of  a  costume,  where  the 
lines  are  broken  by  drapery,  etc.,  or  it  will  cut  up  admirably  for  trim- 
mings, but  large  surfaces  of  it  should  be  avoided,  as  giving  opportunity 
for  the  eye  to  catch  sundry  symptoms,  such  as  streaks  and  a  general  limp- 
ness, which  at  once  reveal  the  secret. 

Irish  poplins  dye  well,  but  have  the  one  objection  of  shrinking  lament* 
ably.  This  should  be  taken  into  consideration  in  purchasing  one  of  light 
color,  and  an  extra  piece,  sufficient  for  a  new  waist,  should  be  included 
in  the  original  quantity. 

Velvets  can  be  colored,  but  although  the  nap  is  beautifully  raised  when 
done  by  an  expert,  they  lose  much  in  appearance,  and  a  velvet  which  co«t 
ten  dollars  a  yard  will  have  the  general  expression  of  one  which  costs  lesy 
than  a  quarter  of  that  sum.  The  cost  of  dyeing  velvet  is  very  great,  and 
with  such  a  result  to  be  expected  as  has  just  been  explained,  it  would  be 
much  better  to  buy  good  new  cotton-back,  silk-faced  velvet. 

Nearly  all  wool  materials,  unless  too  loo.«?ely  woven,  color  well,  but  mix- 
tures of  cotton  and  wool  will  not  pay  for  the  cost  of  dyeing.  Japanese 
silks  and  silk-faced  matelasses  do  not  dye  satis  factorily. 

White  woolen  goods  will  not,  as  jjeople  seem  to  think,  take  every  color; 
on  the  contrary,  there  are  but  few  shades  that  they  will  become.  Light 
and  Mexican-blue,  nut-brown,  slate,  stone  color,  lavender,  jacqueminot,  scar- 
let, rose \  and  several  of  the  very  dark  new  shades  are  those  which  can  be 
most  certainly  obtained.  The  reason  for  this  limitation  is  because  the  sul- 
phur with  which  the  wool  is  whitened  in  the  manufacture  prevenis  most 
colors  from  taking  hold  evenly,  to  use  a  technical  expression. 


DBESS  MAKING  AT  HOME,  613 

AIpacA  is  an  exception  to  most  fabrics  composed  of  two  materials.  It 
dyes  well  and  does  not  siirink  verj^  much, 

*ln  most  materials  slate  color  will  dye  black,  ^x>wn,  claret,  green,  purple 
and  dark  blue. 

Light  blue  will  dye  medium  and  navy-blue,  purple,  crimson,  green, 
prune,  claret  and  black. 

Claret  will  dye  brown,  black,  crimson  and  bottle  green. 

Brown  will  dve  darker  brown,  claret,  black  and  green. 

Amber  will  dye  green,  scarlet,  crimson,  black  and  brown. 

Crimson  will  dye  black,  brown,  claret  and  dark  green.  A  lighter  shade 
of  crimson  will  dye  black,  brown,  claret,  dark  green,  blue,  and  a  darker 
self -shade. 

Drab  will  dye  scarlet,  crimson,  green—both  light  and  dark— purple,  dark 
blue,  and  claret 

Light  green  will  dye  claret,  brown,  black  and  crimson. 

Dark  green  will  dye  brown,  black  and  claret. 

Lavender  will  dye  brown,  black,  garnet,  dark  blue,  green,  plum  and 
prune. 

Mauve  will  dye  dark  blue,  black,  claret,  crimson,  green  and  purple. 

Navy-blue  will  dye  brown,  green,  claret  and  black. 

Magenta  will  dye  purple,  scarlet,  crimson,  aznline  and  navy-blues,  black, 
l)rowns  and  claret. 

Purple  will  dye  black,  dark  crimson,  claret  and  dark  green. 

Pink  will  dye  blue  in  most  shades,  all  the  reddish  tones  of  color,  medium 
and  dark  blues,  black  and  most  of  the  dark  colors,  including  greens. 

Scarlet  will  dye  dark  green  and  blue,  black,  brown,  garnet  and  crimson 

Straw  color  will  take  almost  any  color  except  light  blue,  lavender  and 
pink 

Slate  will  dye  green,  purple,  plum,  navy-blue,  several  shades  of  brown 
and  black. 

Black  and  all  the  dark  colors,  if  grown  rusty  or  faded,  can  be  dyed  again 
the  original  color.  They  may  turn  out  a  little  darker,  but  unless  the  ma- 
terial has  ugly  spots  which  require  more  dye  to  conceal,  the  color  will  be 
nearly  the  same  as  when  new. 

Plaid  goods,  if  thick  and  unmixed  with  cotton,  will  often  take  a  plain 
ml  or,  which  should  be  at  least  as  dark  as  the  darkest  shade  in  the  pattern. 
Black  and  white  checks  prove  an  exception  to  this;  as,  if  skillfully  done, 
they  can  be  dyed  scarlet  or  light  blue,  the  white  blocks  taking  the  color 
and'  the  black  remaining  black. 

It  is  damaging  to  dresses  and  other  ^rments  to  lie  by  in  a  faded  and 
dirty  state ;  therefore,  if  coloring  them  is  in  anticipation,  it  is  best  to  pre- 
j»are  and  send  them  to  the  dyers.  After  they  are  redressed  they  can  be 
lavd  away  till  required,  and  will  take  no  harm. 

Velveteen  will  dye  and  look  very  well  at  first,  but  being  all  cotton  its 
renewed  good  looks  fade  very  quickly.  For  furniture  or  house  decoration 
it  might  pay  to  have  it  done,  but  otherwise  H  is  hardly  to  be  advocated. 

« 

children's  CLOTHING. 

Very  few  grown  people  understand  the  hardship  it  is  to  little  folks  to 
wear  outgrown  or  clumsy  or  ill-fitting  garments.  Boys  are  not  supposed  to 
have  their  feelings  greatlv  harrowed  at  the  sight  of  handsomer  clothes 
than  their  own.  but  even  tYiey  are  quite  alive  to  the  mortification  of  weaiv 
ing  shabby  or  ill-cut  and  ill-made  coats  and  trowsers.  The  trial  falls  most 
severely  upon  little  girls,  and  to  them  it  is  a  bitter  one,  and  just  as  hard 
to  be  borne  as  the  afflictions  of  grown  people  are.  With  a  keen  eye  for 
beauty,  and  often  a  natural  or  cultivated  taste,  a  poor  child  is  sometimes 
condemned  to  wear  garments  of  such  a  hideous  character  that  she  loathes 


614  DBESS  MAKING  AT  HOME. 

the  very  thought  of  them,  and  actually  suffers  the  most  acute   ^aorti- 
fication. 

There  are  mothers  who^evote  too  much  thought  and  time  to  dressing 
their  children,  and  who,  ^  words  and  acts,  lead  them  to  feel  that  to  be 
fashionably  and  elegantly  dressed  is  the  great  good  of  life.  Thiss  is  a  la- 
mentable mistake  to  make,  but  it  is  also  a  mistake  for  a  mother  to  attempt 
to  imbue  her  child  with  an  indifference  to  dress  or  clieck  the  love  of  it  by 
depriving  her  of  tasteful  clothes.  An  ugly  dress  draws  the  thoughts  of  the 
wearer  to  itself  far  more  than  a  pretty,  becoming  one  will,  and  a  forlorn^ 
ill-dressed  little  ^irl  will  grow  up  with  a  longing  for  finery  that  neat  and 
pretty  dressing  will  not  often  develop. 

Thore  is  a  good  deal  of  work  about  making  a  dress,  even  if  it  is  a  small 
one,  but  it  is  very  little  more  trouble  to  make  it  tasteful  and  stylish,  and  it 
ns  a  pleasanter  task  to  create  a  pretty  thing  than  an  ugly  one.  Like  all  other 
arts  of  the  home  dressmaker,  it  takes  experience  to  make  a  success  of  chil- 
dren's dresses.  Amateurs  are  apt  to  take  fright  at  the  dressy,  elaborate- 
styles  now  in  vogue,  but  really  there  is  nothing  appalling  about  them  with 
a  plate  or  pattern  to  follow,  and  the  most  complicated  are  frequently  the- 
mosteasy  to  copy  in  old  material,  because  the  elaboration  hel^  to  di^aiae 
many  makeshifts  In  the  way  of  piecing  and  eking  out  scanty  trimmings. 

A  dainty  little  miss  we  know  of  wears  a  dress  for  her  **  Sunday  De3t" 
that  looks 'as  if  it  might  have  been  selected  from  one  of  the  shop  window^ 
No  one  would  suspect  its  beiiie  home-made,  much  less  made  mostly  of  a 
fabric  no  longer  new.  The  foundation  was  a  plain  princesse  form,  cut  from 
a  thin  lining,  which,  by  the  by,  was  originally  a  light  calico  morning  drea» 
of  one  of  the  older  sisters.  Among  the  castH:>ff  clothes  of  the  family  were 
small  portions  of  two  very  old  silk  dresses,  one  a  fine  black-and-white  check, 
the  other  a  plain  dark  brown.  There  was  not  in  either  enough  in  quantity 
to  do  much  with  alone,  but  combined  there  was  sufficient  to  make  a  very 
gCKxi  result.  The  silk  was  poor  and  thin,  but  it  was  carefully  cleaned  aiib 
stiffened,  and  wherever  used  furnished  with  a  thin,  coarse  Swiss  muslin 
lining.  Long  folds  of  the  two  silks  alternating  were  put  uix)n  the  front 
hreaath  perpendicularly,  reaching  from  the  throat  to  the  bottom  of  the 
dress  in  tlie ^center.  Across  the  back  were  narrow  gathered  ruffles  of  check 
silk  bound  with  the  plain  brown.  The  upper  part  of  the  dress  was  of 
white  Angora  gauze  flannel  skirting,  which  was  out  twenty  cents  a  yard, 
and  resembled  a  summer  camel's  hair.  The  fronts  were  made  in  'sack 
form,  meeting  over  the  long  center  plaits  at  one  point  only,  about  equi- 
distant between  the  throat  and  waist,  and  cut  away  abruptly  above  and 
below.  The  back  was  long  and  looped  over  the  ruflSes  witli  very  graceful 
effect.  The  cuffs  were  of  check  silk,  with  brown  bias  binding' upon  the 
edge,  and  tlie  deep  round  collar  (almost  a  cape)  was  in  the  same  order. 
The  upper  part  of  the  dress  was  covered  with  brown  silk  that  was  too  old 
and  poor  to  be  fit  for  any  other  use ;  but,  under  the  polonaise,  the  worn 
places  did  not  appear,  and  the  flannel  was  so  thin  that  it  required  a  con- 
tinuous color  beneath  to  prevent  the  ugly  variegated  appearance  that  some 
8ilk  and  bunting  toilettes  present  The  polonaise  was  edged  with  three 
rows  of  machine  chain-stitch ing,  done  with  coarse  brown  silk,  and  was 
not  a  separate  garment,  being  sewed  in  with  the  shoulder  and  side  seams,  and 
buttoned  in  the  back  with  brown  buttons. 

Another  dress  of  the  same  little  lady's  was  made  from  a  pair  of  old  Turkey 
red  curtains,  of  the  dark  color  and  heavy  quality  of  former  manufacture. 
The  dress  was  made  with  a  full  skirt  gathered  round  the  waist,  with  five 
rows  of  shirring.  The  blouse-waist  was  gathered  in  the  same  way.  The 
deep  collar,  cuns,  wide  belt,  and  the  binding  to  two  ruffles  on  the  bottom  of 
the  skirt,  were  of  Madras  gingham  in  indigo-blue  shades.  The  combination 
made  a  very  quaint  and  stylish  dress,  and  was  modeled  from  a  recently  im» 
ported  one  of  much  more  expensive  material. 

Another  lady  who  prides  herself  on  her  ingenuity  made  a  very  neat  cloak 


DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOMR  615 

for  her  girl  from  an  old  pair  of  pants.  The  fronts  and  backs  were  cut  of 
narrow  pieces  (it  could  not  have  been  otherwi^),  with  seams  extending  to 
the  shoulder.  The  pockets  and  cuffs  were  in  veTy  good  style,  but  not  of  tho 
same  material,  whicli  was  a  brown  basket  pattern.  Tbe  upper  parts  of  the 
aleeves  were  very  presentable,  but  the  under  halves  were  curious  mosaics  of 
patchwork,  telling  something  of  the  difficulty  with  which  they  succeeded  in 
being  sleeves  at  all ;  but  n'importe,  nobody — not  even  a  child — voluntarily 
oifers  the  under  part  of  a  sleeve  for  inspection,  so  its  secrets  need  never  be 
revealed. 

In  making  over  children's  clothes,  or  elders'  clothes  for  children,  there  is 
a  double  advantage  in  combining  more  than  one  material.  Fresher  parts 
of  both  can  be  used,  and  harmonious  arrangement  of  colors  diverts  the  eye 
from  the  want  of  newness  that  might  be  apparent  in  a  plainer  dress,  in 
making  use  of  diverse  fabrics,  there  is,  however,  one  all-important  thing  to 
be  kept  in  mind — there  must  be  a  certain  harmony  in  color  and  method 
in  arrangement  observed,  or  the  effect  will  be  disastrous.  There  a'  3  people 
with  artistic  .tastes  to  whom  the  knowledge  of  what  is  fitting  and  appropriate 
seems  to  come  instinctively,  and  they  need  no  advice;  but  there  are  many 
busy  mothers  living  so  far  from  our  great  cities  and  so  off  from  the  line  of 
travel  that  they  have  but  little  opportunity  for  cultivating  their  tastes  or  of 
seeing  what  is  fashionable,  and  often  but  little  time  to  give  the  subject  much 
thought 

In  reading  over  the  ordinary  articles  upon  children's  fashions,  one  is  con- 
stantly struck  with  the  similarity  of  the  materials  advised  for  their  clothing, 
to  those  used  for  grown  people!  There  seem  to  be  no  especial  fabrics  re- 
served' for  their  use.  This  fact  should  be  particularly  comforting  to  those 
whose  circumstances  compel  them  to  prepare  their  children's  clothing  from 
their  stock  on  hand,  which  stock  is  generally  understood  to  be  the  worn-out 
dresses  of  mother  and  sisters.  When  there  was  a  marked  difference  between 
the  styles  of  child  and  adult,  the  wearing  cast-off  dresses  of  their  elders  was 
a  real  and  bitter  trial  to  little  girls ;  but  there  is  no  trouble  about  it  now. 
Nearlj'  every  thing  that  is  wearable  can  be  stylishly  used  under  the  present 
laws  which  govern  fashion.  Plaids  and  large  figures,  which  mieht  be  gro- 
tesque in  whole  dresses,  make  very  nice  vests  and  trimmings  to  liglit  up  dull- 
looking  costumes. 

Old  brown  or  black  woolen  dresses  that  have  grown  rusty  and  faded,  but 
liave  capabilities  of  usefulness,  can  be  refreshed  by  steeping  in  a  weak  de- 
<50Ction  of  logwood.  Other  colors  in  all-wool  can  be  re-dyed  at  home  with 
the  ordinary  family  dyes.  It  should  be  rememberec'  that  it  is  much  easier  to 
xe-color  goods  the  same  shade  than  it  is  to  make  an  entire  change  of  hue. 
It  is  best  to  match  the  color  that  the  material  was  originally,  and  saturate 
it  in  the  preparation,  following  the  usually  accompanying  printed  direc- 
tions about  drying,  pressing,  etc.  It  is  a  pity  to  spend  time  and  trouble  in 
making  up  dresses  which  will  look  foriorn  in  spite  of  tlie  pains  lavished 
upon  them,  when  a  previous  re-dyeing  would  have  made  such  a  wonderful 
fjhange  in  their  appearance. 

The  present  very  universal  fashion  of  shirring  dresses  and  trimmings  is 
admirably  adapted  to  make  over  old  materials  into  children's  clothes. 
Worn-out  ruffles  can  be  closely  j^therod,  or  gauged,  as  the  term  is,  and  all 
the  holes  and  thin  places  made  invisible  by  the  process.  If,  for  instance, 
a  prudent  mother  has  laid  aside  the  flounces  from  some  old  skirt  she  has 
long  ago  taken  for  a  petticoat  or  other  use,  she  will  now  reap  the  benefit  of 
faer  carefulness,  and  find  herself  able  to  make  her  child  a  dress  at  little 
cost.  Let  her  cut  a  cambric  skirt  of  a  proper  size,  and  cover  it  with  the 
flounces,  shirred  at  each  edge  with  two  gatherings,  and  a  similar  row  through 
the  middle.  The  shirrings  may  run  around  the  skirt,  and  the  lapping  of  the 
ruffles 'may  be  concealed  by  a  row  of  galloon  or  velvet,  or  the  flounces  may 
all  be  pieced  together  before  the  shirrs  are  made.  The  gathers  should  be 
distributed  evenly,  and  sewed  firmly  down  upon  tlie  cambric. 


616  DBESS  MAKING  AT  HOMK 

Another  mode  of  using  the  ruffles  Ss  to  set  them  on  the  skirt  perpendic^ 
ularly ;  in  this  case,  the  middle  shirr  may  be  omitted  in  each  raffle,  unless 
they  are  over  five  inches  wide.  If  that  style  does  not  meet  with  approval, 
a  puff  (made  of  the  flounces)  mav  alternate  with  a  close  strip  of  shirring  of 
equal  width  with  the  shirring  all  the  way  around.  Again,  if  it  is  desirable 
to  piece  out  a  scanty  pattern,  it  will  do  to  make  the  lower  part  of  the 
skirt  of  the  ruffles  closely  shirred,  and  cover  the  rest  of  it  with  ,the  dreaa 
material.  Both  waists  and  sleeves,  or  either  one  alone,  or  deep  yokes  and 
cuffs,  may  be  entirely  made  of  fine  shirring,  which,  it  will  reamly  be  seen,  • 
affords  a  fine  opportnnit^  for  using  up  irregular-shaped  pieces  of  old  ma- 
terial, as  it  is  oi  very  little  consequent  how  many  piecmgs  are  put  into 
any  thin^  that  is  so  closely  gathered  up,  always  supposing  that -the  Indus* 
trious  toiler  has  time  and  patience  to  do  the*^ piecing.  Unlimited  patience 
seems  to  be  the  attribute  of  nearly  all  mothers,  but  time,  the  economical 
ones  seem,  alas,  to  have  in  but  a  limited  supply. 

It  is  cruel  to  condemn  little  girls,  with  their  natuially  dainty  tastes  and 
love  for  pretty  thin^,  to  wearing  ugly,  ill-fashioned  clothes ;  but  even  made 
out  of  such  matenals  as  this  article  treats  of,  they  can  be  as  pretty,  if  not 
not  so  durable,  as  if  new  material  were  used. 

The  subject  of  boys*  wear  needs  consideration,  for  there  is  no  direction 
in  which  the  amateur's  failures  are  so  distressingly  palpable  as  in  boys' 
clothes.  The  unfortunate  little  sons  of  poor,  industrious  mothers  too  often 
are  condemned  to  wear  garments  that  give  them  a  hopelessly  awkward  ap- 
pearance. Orowing  boys,  at  their  best,  are  not  miracles  of  grace,  but  well- 
made  clothes  do  wonders  for  them;  and  it  is  worth  while  for  those  who 
have  the  work  to  do  to  study  to  acquire  the  tailors*  style  of  finishing^ 
garments,  without  which  they  are  certain  to  have  an  uncouth,  home- 
made air  that  condems  them  at  once.  It  is  quite  possible  to  learn  thi» 
art  by  a  little  practice  and  cloee  imitation  of  the  finish  that  is  found 
on  coats  and  other  articles  of  tailors*  workmanship.  The  secret  of  style  in 
men's  clothes  is  in  pressing — not  such  pressing  as  people  ordinarily  do  with 
the  ^ntle  gliding  of  a  warm  smoothing-iron  over  the  cloth — ^but  a  vigorous 
bearing  on  with  a  heavy  iron  that  takes  all  the  patience  and  strength  of 
the  worker.  The  iron  should  be,  as  the  phrase  goes,  "  red-hot,'*  and  the* 
danger  of  scorching  the  goods  averted  by  keeping  an  old  wet  linen  cloth 
between  the  garment  and  the  iron.  Later,  a  finishing  smooth  may  be 
given  with  a  cooler  iron,  through  a  thin  dry  cloth,  to  take  out  the  wrinkles 
tometimes  caused  by  the  wetting. 

It  is  a  grreat  mistake  to  suppose  that  when  a  boy's  garment  is  made 
from  the  cast-off  one  of  a  man  it  is  not  worth  while  to  take  much  trouble 
with  it,  for  the  cloth  is  generally  of  a  better  quality  than  that  commonly 

Surchased  for  boys,  and  the  worn  portions  can  all  be  cut  away  by  care  in 
isposing  the  pattern. 

Before  appropriating  castoff  coats  or  pantaloons  of  the  father's  to  re- 
plenish the  boys'  wardrobes,  the  garments  should  be  brushed  well  and 
ripped  up;  then  washed  through  two  suds  made  with  warm  water  and 
very  strong  soap.  For  reliable  colors,  a  little  lye  can  be  added  to  the  first 
water.  Do  not  twist,  but  stretch  and  pull  the  cloth,  and  fold  up  each 
piece  tightly,  and  squeeze  out  the  water  by  pressure,  or  put  it  carefully 
through  a  wringing-machine.  Rinse  again  tlirough  two  waters,  with  a  little 
soap  in  the  first,  and  press  out  the  water  as  before.  After  all  has  been 
squeezed  out  that  can  oe,  hang  the  cloth  in  the  air  over  a  line,  and  when 
perfectly  dry  roll  very  tightly  in  a  damp  towel,  and  leave  for  several  hours, 
or  till  the  next  day;  then  iron  on  the  right  side,  through  thin  muslin, 
running  the  iron  over  till  the  cloth  is  entirely  drv.  If  there  are  any 
prominent  grease  spots  on  the  garment  it  is  best,  before  washing,  to  re- 
move them  with  turpentine,  potter's  clay,  or  benzine.  Stains  can  be  treated 
(though  not  always  with  success)  with  a  mixture  of  ammonia,  camphor, 
and  water.    For  example — say  that  a  jacket  is  to  be  cut  from  a  sack  coat; 


DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOME.  G17 

haying  washed  the  former  as  directed,  select  the  simplest  jacket  pattern 
and  lay  each  piece  upon  the  cloth  in  a  position  to  make  the  fronts  oui 
of  the  freshest  parts.  If  the  wrong  side  of  the  cloth  is  best  worthy  to  be 
uppermost,  that  should  have  been  pressed  instead  of  the  outside  when  it 
was  washed.  Sometimes  the  sleeves  of  gentlemen's  coats  are  made  in  one 
piece,  with  but  one  seam,  and  that  upon  the  outside.  Such  sleeves  can 
often  be  used  for  the  back  of  a  jacket,  while  the  original  backs  and  parts 
of  the  skirt  can  be  used  for  side  pieces  and  sleeves  of  the  jacket.  In  tail- 
oring work  it  is  necessary  to  maintain  a  rigid  adherence  to  the  pattern. 
Where  two  pieces  are  to  be  joiped,  and  one  is  longer  than  the  other,  it 
will  never  do  to  snip  off  the  extra  length,  as  some  careless  people  do,  but 
the  longest  side  must  be  held  in  in  sewing  till  the  extra  fullness  is  taken 
up. 

In  putting  the  collar  on  the  jacket,  care  must  be  observed  not  to  stretch 
or  pull  it  out  of  shape ;  it  should  also  be  held  full  enough  to  turn  over 
easily,  and  the  seam  should  be  pressed  in  the  manner  mentioned  above. 
If  possible,  a  jacket  that  has  been  made  by  a  tailor  should  be  made  the 
model  for  imitation  in  making  one  at  home,  and,  till  experience  has  made 
the  details  familiar,  it  should  be  referred  to  in  putting  m  pockets,  setting 
In  sleeves,  and  at  every  step  of  the  way. 

Small  pantaloons  are  readily  cut  from  larger  ones,  and  even  where  the 
latter  are  seriously  impaired,  it  is  still  possible  to  make  good  new  ones  out 
of  them.  If  the  back  is  in  holes,  the  thin  part  can  be  replaced  by  long 
BoreHsrhaped  pieces,  such  as  are  seen  in  army  pantaloons,  ana  a  pattern  for 
Boys,  called  sometimes  called  the  "cadet  pants,"  can  be  procured,  if  such 
a  device  is  needful.  In  cutting  the  fronts,  try  not  to  have  the  exact  spot 
come  at  the  k^ee  that  came  there  before,  but  have  it  above  o^ below,  as  it 
will  not  'only  wear  out  faster,  but  bulge  out  in  an  unsightly  fashion.  If 
the  cloth  is  tnin  and  looselv  woven,  or  has  had  already  a  great  deal  of  wear, 
It  will  be  well  to  line  the  little  pantaloons  throughout.  The  fly  should  be 
lined  with  strong  drilling  interlined  with  canvas  to  give  suQcient  sup- 
port for  the  button-holes.  Short  knee-breeches  are  much  easier  to  make 
than  long  ones,  and  take  such  a  small  .quantity  of  material  that  two 
pairs  can  be  cut  from  one  pair  of  ordinary-sized  men's  pants;  but  of 
course,  after  a  certain  age,  all  the  king's  horses  and  all  the  kind's  men 
would  be  a  force  insufficient  to  compel  a  little  boy  to  give  up  his  inalien- 
able right  to  have  his  trousers  as  long  as  his  father's ;  and  happy  the  mother 
whose  young  son  does  not  insist  on  spring  bottoms,  for  that  is  a  touch  very 
difficult  of  attainment  to  any  but  an  expert.  In  ordering  a  pantaloon  pat- 
tern, it  is  less  important  to  give  the  age  of  the  boy  than  the  length  of  hia 
leg  (measured  upon  the  outside  seam),  as  height  varies  much  in  similar 
ages. 

The  Ulster  is  a  form  to  be  recommended  for  the  overcoat,  where  new 
cloth  is  used,  because  it  is  so  long  and  lar^e  that  the  material  can  be  made 
into  other  garments  when  its  original  form  is  outgrown. 

ELDERLY  LADIES. 

Young  people  sometimes  feel  that  it  makes  very  little  difference  how 
mothers  and  grandmothers  dress  as  long  as  they  themselves  can  make  as 
fair  a  show  as  the  family  circumstances  allow — a  mistake  which  is  unjust 
and  prejudicial  to  all  parties.  It  is  a  disgraceful,  and  in  a  great  measure, 
a  purely  American  notion,  happily  banished  now  from  large  cities,  but  still 
hanging  about  the  country,  that  a  young  lady,  even  if  her  parents  are  not 
rich,  must  be  gaily,  and  as  far  as  possible,  richly  clothed,  and  be  able  to 
show  soft  jeweled  hands,  as  white  as  the  piano  keys  she  touches  deftly  or 
otherwise,  as  the  case  may  be,  while  mamma  spends  her  overworked  time 
in  the  meanest  of  clothes,  and  by  reason  of  shabbiness  is  seldom  seen  by 
her  daughter's  friends,  or  by  any  one  else  except  at  church.    Too  often  it  u 

39 


618  DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOMK 

conscience  rather  than  choice  that  takes  her  there,  where  the  comfort  of 
the  service  is  swallowed  in  the  consciousness  of  tlie  atter  forlomneas  and 
awkwardness  of  her  appearance  in  obsolete  dress  and  antiquated  mantilla 
that  were  bought  long  before  the  daughters  grew  up  to  monopolize  what 
little  comfort  and  luxury  life  in  narrow  circumstances  can  give.  The 
mother  who  allows  herself  to  be  set  aside  in  this  way,  and  brings  up  her 
daughters  to  feel  tiiat  hers  is  the  secondary  place  to  theirs,  fails  dismally 
in  her  duty  to  them  and  reaps  her  reward  in  the  want  of  respect  rendered  to 
her.  But  if  the  mother  of  a  famil  v  is  herself  to  blame  for  the  want  of  nicety 
in  her  dress,  the  same  can  not  always  be  said  of  the  grandmother,  whose 
failing  strength  takes  her  iwirtially  out  of  the  active  cares  of  life,  and 
»vlio  ought  to  be  the  object  of  tender  consideration  from  every  one  in  the 
iiousehold;  and  it  should  be  every  one's  care  to  have  her  comfortable  and 
'well-dressed — an  object  of  pride,  a  sort  of  show-piece,  instead  of  a  poor, 
pushed-aside,  forlorn  object,  lo  be  kept  out  of  sight.  Some  clever  writer 
says  that  a  highly-presentable  and  well-appointed  grandmother  in  a  family 
is  a  patent  of  re8|)ectability. 

There  is  no  arbitrary  dictum  requiring  certain  things,  but  custom  restricta 
them  to  a  narrow  choice  of  coior — brown,  purple,  black,  and  gi*ay  being  the 
only  ones  allowed.  Artistically  considered,  brown  should  be  also  excluded, 
on  account  of  its  unbecomingncss  to  the  dull  tints  of  hair,  eyes,  and  com- 
plexion. The  ideal  dress  for  an  old  lady — and  one  may  as  well  know  what 
the  ideal  is,  even  if  there  is  but  small  hope  of  investing  it  In  the  real—' 
is  severely  nlain  velvet,  with  soft  tulle  handkerchief  K>lded  across  the 
breast,  rich  lace  ruffles  at  the  wrist  to  shade  the  withered  hands,  and  a 
decorous  cap,  which  makes  no  attempt  to  be  a  head-dress,  hut  has  protect- 
ing strings  of  lace  or  ribbon  to  tie  loosely  under  the  chin.  We  can  not 
all  dress  our  dear  old  grandmothers  thus  grandly  and  picturesquely,  but 
we  can  make  them'  comfortable,  and  fashion  their  clothes  as  tastefully  as 
our  means  will  allow,  remembering  that  the  love  of  pretty  things  to  wear 
begins  with  a  woman's  life  and  generallv  lasts  as  long  as  she  does — perhaps 
she  is  never  too  old  to  be  gfratined  with  a  pretty  cap  or  dress. 

A  black  silk  dress  is  not  always  a  possible  thing  for  an  old  lady,  but  if, 
by  any  economy  the  purchase  can  be  made,  it  is  a  wise  one,  for  it  will  last 
any  length  of  time  as  a  best  dress,  and  be  such  a  comfort  to  the  owner  as 
to  repay  any  sacrifice  incurred  when  it  was  bought.  It  should  be  made 
very  plainly.  If  the  lady  is  very  stout,  and  likes  the  style,  it  can  be  made 
a  close-fitting  Gabrielle  or  princesse,  but  the  usual  style  is  preferable. 
The  waist  should  fit  comfortably,  and,  unless  the  wearer  has  delicate  lungs, 
may  be  cut  with  the  neck  open  down  to  the  waist,  and  filled  in  with  a 
lace  or  lawn  handkerchief.  An  over-skirt  is  not  too  youthful,  if  it  is  not 
long  and  entirely  unlooped,  but  many  old  ladies  prefer  single-skirted 
dresses.  In  that  case  the  breadths  are  but  liltle  gored;  the  one  in  front 
may  be  shaped  like  an  apron,  and  the  others  left  straight  and  sewed  upon 
the  waistband  in  lai^  ])laits,  except  right  in  the  center  of  the  back,  where 
they  may  be  shirred  for  a  short  aistance,  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  or  two. 
"le  bottom  of  the  dress  may  be  left  plain,  or  may  be  bound  with  velvet 
1  I  stead  of  the  usual  braid,  or  may  be  trimmed  with  one  or  more  wide 
flat  bands  or  folds  of  the  silk.  The  sleeves  mav  be  trimmed  at  the  hand 
to  correspond  with  the  finish  on  the  skirt ;  and  if  the  waist  is  not  open 
as  suggested,  a  small  square  collar  trimmed  in  the  same  way  can  be  added. 
If  circumstances  do  not  allow  the  silk,  black  cashmere  is  certainly  the 
next  choice,  and  will  be  verv  handsome  made  up  in  the  same  way.  It 
can  be  made  to  look  richer  by  edging  the  folds  and  bias  pieces  with  mil- 
liner's folds  or  narrow  pipings  of  silk.  Failing  the  cashmere,  black  alpaca 
of  the  best  quality  that  can  be  afforded  is  the  best  substitute.  Silk  pipings 
are  not  so  pretty  upon  this  material,  but  their  place  may  be  taken  by 
galloon,  or  the  skirt  may  be  set  off  by  two  groups,  three  or  four  in  each, 
of  narrow  double  folds  of  filpaca. 


DRESS  MAKING  AT  HOME.  619 

» 

A  comfortable  and  welcome  fashion  for  old  ladies,  which  was  i)erhap9 
suggested  by  the  rage  for  iichus  of  all  kinds,  is  a  shoulder  cape,  in  shape 
like  a  Son  tag,  except  that  the  fronts  fasten  like  a  dress  with  buttons,  in- 
stead of  being  crossed.  This  is  made  of  black  silk,  quilted  in  tiny  diamonds 
over  a  single  thickness  of  wadding,  and  edged  with  a  double  cord,  or  with 
a  very  narrow  black  lace  plaited  on. '  It  can  be  worn  with  any  dress,  and  is 
becoming  so  much  adopted  by  old  ladies  in  the  East  that  they  frequently 
have  cloth  or  crocheted  capes  of  the  same  shape  made  to  wear  in  change 
with  the  more  dressy  one. 

Circulars  are  frequently  mentioned  in  fashion  journals  as  being  well 
adapted  to  old  ladies,  but  they  are  really  far  from  being  the  best  shape  for 
their  wraps,  as,  having  no  sleeves,  they  drag  heavily  from  the  neck,  and  be- 
come very  tiresome.  A  better  style  is  a  loose-fitting  double-breastea  sacque, 
rather  long,  but  not  enough  so  to  be  heavy  and  burdensome. 

Ca^is  and  bonnets  are  delicate  points,  and  the  old  lady  whose  means  are 
too  straightened  to  allow  her  to  call  {professional  skill  to  her  aid  (and  even 
that  is  not  always  equal  to  the  situation)  is  fortunate  if  she  has  a  friendly 
relative  with  taste  and  capacity  enough  to  undertake  the  critical  task, 
which,  to  be  successful,  should  be  really  a  labor  of  love.  The  caps  should 
be  pure  white,  and  th'fe  bonnets  black.  A  well-defined  border  or  ruche  of 
white  is  pretty  and  becoming,  but  an  indefinite  mingling  of  black  and  white 
in  either  cap  or  bonnet  is  unbecoming.  Small  bonnets  are  out  of  the 
question  for  old  ladies  who  need  a  shape  that  will  amply  protect  the  head, 
and  even  the  back  of  the  neck,  where  so  many  nerves  center  that  embrace 
the  slightest  opportunity  of  exposure  to  ache  remorselessly.  Still  the  bonnet 
roust  not  be  too  large,  unless  to  shade  a  lai^e  fat  face;  a  small  head  and 
delicate  features  in  a  great  coal-scuttle  of  a  hat  look  like  a  caricature,  and 
the  beauty  of  a  bonnet  lies  in  its  fitness. 

They  say  there  are  no  old  women  in  modern  tiines,^so  it  would  not  be 
safe  to  mention  an  age  to  which  the  plainness  of  attire  advocated  in  this 
article  belongs.  But  it  was  designed  for  those  who  honestly  feel  themselvee 
beyond  the  period  when 

*'  One  a  charm  from  dress  can  borrow,* 

Note.— The  article  "  Dress  Making  at  Home,"  Is  chiefly  condensed  ftom  a  series  of  artl* 
des  which  appeared  in  that  excellent  monthly,  **  Andrews'  Baau^r  >*  nabUshed  by  W.  ^ 
Andrews,  New  York. 


1 


i 


COLORING  AND  BLEAOHING. 

In  coloring  always  use  plenty  of  water  (soft  water  when  obtainable) ;  never 
crowd  the  goods,  taking  care  that  they  float  in  the  liquid.  The  rule  is  four 
gallons  of  water  to  one  pound  of  goods.  In  rinsing  alwajrs  use  plenty  of  clear 
water ;  and  in  preparing  goods  for  coloring,  clean  off  all  dirt  and  grease 
spots.  To  test  color  of  dye,  pour  it  from  a  dish  held  high,  and  look  through 
it  to  the  light  A  pound  of  extract  of  logwood  is  equal  to  four  pounds  of 
logwood  chips.  Fustic  should  be  boiled  in  a  sack  of  open  texture.  The 
other  ingredients  are  put  into  the  water.  All  black  goods  should  be  washed 
in  soap-suds  after  coloring.  Let  every  implement  used  about  coloring  be 
scrupulously  clean.  In  preparing  the  goods,  scour  well  with  soap  and  water, 
washing  the  soap  well  out  and  dipping  in  warm  water  before  placing  in  the 
dye.  All  goods  should  be  well  aired,  rinsed,  and  hung  out  carefully  after 
dyeing.  Silks  and  delicate  fabrics  must  be  handled  tenderly,- or  injury  will 
be  done.  In  case  a  very  large  quantity  of  goods  are  to  be  dyed,  a  slightly 
smaller  proportion  of  water  than  the  rule  above  given  may  be  used. 

The  "Family  Dyes,"  lately  introduced  and  now  kept  for  sale  by  all  drug- 
gists, are  very  convenient  and  give  good  results.  They  are  aniline  dyes, 
and  come  in  the  form  of  a  powder,  put  up  in  papers,  and  labeled  with  full 
Instructions  for  using.  The  preparations  for  using  these  dyes  are  very 
simple,  and  no  experience  is  required  if  the  instructions  are  implicitly  fol- 
lowed. The  color  card  shows  the  exact  shade  of  the  color  you  select,  and 
there  is  no  trouble  in  experimenting  to  get  the  right  shade.  Besides,  the 
dyes  are  cheap  and  the  results  are  equal  to  those  produced  by  the  profes* 
sional  dyer.  There  are  several  manufacturers  of  aniline  dyes,  and  inquiry  at 
the  nearest  drug  store  will  secure  all  the  information  as  to  prices,  colors,  etc. 
that  may  be  desired  by  any  lady. 

Color  between  Pubplb  and  Blub  fob  Wool  ob  Silk.— For  four  pounds 
of  goods,  take  bichromate  of  potash  one  ounce,  and  alum  one  and  a  quarter 
ounces ;  dissolve  and  bring  water  to  boiling  point ;  put  in  goods  and  boil 
one  hour ;  then  empty  dve  and  make  new  with  one  pound  logwood  (or  one- 
fourth  pound  extract  of  logwood),  and  boll  goods  in  this  one  hour  longer. 
Use  more  logwood  to  make  color  darker,  or  less  to  make  it  lighter. 

Blb.\ch  for  Wool,  Silk,  or  Straw. — Mix  one  pound  oxalic  acid,  one 
pound  table  salt,  and  twelve  gallons  water ;  lay  goods  in  this  mixture  for 
one  hour;  remove  and  thoroughly  rinse  and  work. 

Scarlet  fob  Wool. — For  ten  pounds  flannel  or  yarn,  take  two  and  a  half 
pounds  of  ground  lac  dye.  one  and  a  half  pounds  scarlet  spirit  (see  recipeX 
naif  pound  tartar,  one  and  one-fifth  ounces  flavine  (or  according  to  shade 
(620) 


COLORINO  AND  BLEACHING,  621 

desired),  one  and  a  fifth  ounces  tin  crystals,  half  pound  muriatic  acid.  Bbil 
all  together  for  fifteen  minutes ;  cool  to  170°  Fan. ;  put  in  goods,  handling 
quickry^  at  first,  then  boil  one  hour,  rinse  while  hot,  before  gum  and  im- 
purities harden.  A  miaU  Quantity  of  sulphuric  acid  may  be  added  to  tliia 
recipe,  to  dissolve  gum.    Ihis  scarlet  stands  soap  better  than  cochineal. 

Scarlet  Spirit. — Two  pounds  muriatic  acid  (22°  B.),  two  ounces  feathered 
tin,  and  one-fourth  pound  water.  Place  acid  in  a  stoneware  jar,  add  the  tin, 
let  it  dissolve,  and  keep  a  few  days  before  using.  The  tin  is  feathered  by 
melting  it  ana  i)ouriiig  it  from  a  heiglit  of  five  or  six  feet  into  a  pailful  of 
water.  This  spirit  is  used  in  certain  colors,  particularly  scarlets,  orange,  and 
pink. 

Cochineal  Scarlet. — For  five  pounds  of  wool,  yarn,  or  cloth,  take  two 
ounces  cream'  tartar,  one  and  a  fourth  ounces  of  pulverized  cochineal,  (»ne 

gound  scarlet  spirit;  boil. the  dye;  dip  the  goods,  working  them  well  for 
fteen  minutes;  then  boil  one  and  a  half  hours,  slowly  stirring  the  goods  all 
the  while ;  take  out,  wash  in  clear  water,  and  drv  in  doors  or  in  the  shade. 

Purple  Dye. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  alum  twelve  ounces,  muriate 
of  tin  one  teacupful,  pulverized  cochineal  two  ounces,  cream  of  tartar  eight 
ounces.  Boil  the  alum,  tin,  and  cream  of  tartar  for  twenty  minutes ;  add 
the  cochineal,  and  boil  five  minutes;  inmierse  the  goods  two  hours ;  remove 
and  enter  them  in  a  new  dye  composed  of  Brazil  wood  twelve  pounds,  log- 
wood two  pounds,  alum  one  pounu,  muriate  of  tin  two  cupsful,  adding  a 
little  extract  of  indigo,  made  as  follows : 

Extract  of  Indigo. — Take  oil  of  vitriol  two  pounds,  and  stir  into  it  finely, 
pulverized  indigo  eight  ounces,  stirring  briskly  for  the  first  half-hour,  then 
cover  it  up,  and  stir  fouV  or  five  times  daily  for  a  few  days;  then  add  a 
little  pulverized  chalk,  stirring  it  up,  and  keep  adding  it  as  long  as  it  foams. 
It  will  neutralize  the  acid.     Keep  it  closely  corked. 

Light  Silver  Drab. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  logwood  two  ounces, 
aluUi  about  the  same  quantity ;  boil  well,  enter  tlie  goods,  and  dip  them 
for  one  hour.  Grade  the  color  to  any  desired  shade  by  using  equal  parts 
of  logwood  and  alum. 

Chrome  Black  for  Wool. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  blue  vitriol 
twelve  ounces ;  boil  it  a  short  time,  then  dip  the  wool  or  fabric  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  airing  frequently ;  take  out  goods,  and  make  a  dye  with 
logwood  six  pounds ;  boil  half  an  hour,  dip  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  air 
the  goods,  and  dip  quarter  of  an  hour  longer ;  wash  in  strong  soap  suds.  A 
good  fast  color. 

Dark  Snuff  Brown  on  Wool. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  take  camwood 
two  pounds;  boil  for  twenty  minutes  then  dip  the  goods  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  then  take  tbem  out,  and  add  to  the  dye  fustic  five  pounds: 
boil  twelve  minutes,  and  dip  the  goods  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  tiien  add 
blue  vitriol  two  ounces,  copperas  eight  ounces;  dip  again  forty  minntes; 
add  more  copperas,  if  the  shade  is  required  darker. 

Wine  Color  Dye. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  camwood  two  pounds ; 
boi> twenty  minutes;  dip  the  goods  half  an  hour;  boil  again,  and  aip  fortv 
minutes ;  then  darken  with  blue  vitriol  three  ounces;  and  should  ,you  wish 
It  darker,  add  one  pound  of  copperas. 

Pink  Dye  for  Wool. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  take  alum  one  pound ; 
boil,  and  immerse  the  goods  fifty  minutes ;  then  add  to  the  dye  cochineal 
well  pulverized  three  ounces,  cream  of  tartar  twelve  ounces ;  boil,  and  enter 
the  goods  while  boiling,  until  the  color  is  satisfactory. 

Oranoe  Dye. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  areal  ten  ounces,  muriate  of 
tin  two  gills ;  boil,  and  dip  one  hour ;  then  aad  to  the  dye,  fustic  five 
pounds,  madder  one  pint,  and  dip  again  forty  minutes.  If  preferred,  cochi« 
neal  four  ounces  may  be  used  instead  of  the  madder,  as  a  better  color  is 
induced  by  it. 

8kt  Blue  on  Cotton. — ^Ten  pounds  of  poods,  blue  vitriol  one  pound ! 
boil  a  short  time,  then  enter  tne  goods,  dip  three  hours^  and  transfer  to  a 


622  COLORISG  AND  BLEACHING, 

bath  of   strong  lime  water.     A  fine  broum  color  will   be  imparted  to  the 
goods  if  they  are  then  put  through  a  solution  of  prussiate  of  potash. 

A  Brown  Dyb  on  Wool  may  be  induced  by  a  dec(x:tion  of  whitd  oak 
bark,  with  variety  of  shade  accorc^ng  to  the  quantity  employed.  If  the 
goods  be  first  passed  through  a  solution  of  alum  the  color  will  be  brightened. 

Brown  on  Cotton. — Catecheu,  or  terra  japonica,  gives  cotton  a  brown  color, 
blue  vitriol  turns  it  on  the  fmmze,  green  copperas  dcurken*  it,  when  applied  as 
a  mordant  and  the  stuff  boiled  in  tne  bath  boiling  hot.  Acetate  of  alumina, 
as  a  mordant,  brightens  it.  The  French  color  namcil  '^  CarmeliU**  is  given 
with  catechu  one  pound,  verdigris  four  ounces,  and  sal  ammoniac  five 
ounceis. 

Brown  on  Wool  and  »Silk. — Infusion  or  decoction  of  walnut-peels  dyes 
wool  and  silk  brown  color,  which  is  briglit«ned  by  alum.  Horse  chestnut 
peels  also  impart  a  brown  color ;  a  mordant  of  muriate  of  tin  turns  it  on 
the  bronze ;  and  sugar  of  lead  the  reddish-brown. 

SoLiTAiRB. — Sul[>iiate  or  muriate  of  manganese,  dissolved  in  water  w^ith  a 
little  tartaric  acid,  imparts  this  l)eautiful  bronze  tint.  The  stuff  after  being 
put  througii  tlu*  solution  must  be  turned  through  a  weak  lye  of  potash,  ana 
afterward  through  another  of  chloride  of  lime,  to  brighten  and  fix  it.  Prua- 
state  of  copper  gives  a  bron::e  or  yelhwhh-brown  color  to  silk.  The  piece  well- 
mordanted  with  blue  vitriol  imiy  be  passed  through  a  solution  o(  pnissiaU 
of  potash. 

Fuller's  Purifier  for  C'I/OTHs. — Dry,  pulverize,  and  sift  the  following  in- 
gredients: Fuller's  earth  six  pounds,  French  chalk  four  ounces,  pipeclay  one 
pound;  make  into  a  paste  with  rectified  oil  of  turpentine  one  ounce,  alcohol 
two  ounces,  melted  oil  soap  one  and  a  half  pounds.  Make  up  the  mixture 
into  cakes  of  any  desired  size,  keeping  them  in  water  or  small  wooden  boxes. 
A  less  quantity  can  be  made  by  using  same  proportions. 

Grbrn  on  Cotton. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  fustic  two  and  a  half 
pounds,  blue  vitriol  two  and  a  half  ounces,  soft  soap  one  pint,  and  logwood 
chips  four  ounces.  Soak  the  logwood  over  night  in  a  brass  vessel ;  put  it 
on  the  fire  in  the  morning,  adding  the  other  ingredients.  When  quite  hot 
it  is  ready  for  dyeing;  enter  the  goods  at  once,  and  handle  well.  Different 
shades  may  be  obtained  by  letting  part  of  the  goods  remain  longer  in  the 
dye. 

Pink  Dye  for  Cotton. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  redwood  one  pound, 
muriate  of  tin  half  a  pound ;  boil  the  redwood  one  hour,  turn  off  into  a 
large  vessel,  add  the  muriate  of  tin,  and  put  in  the  goods ;  let  it  stand  a  few 
minutes  (five  or  ten),  and  a  nice  pink  will  be  produced.  It  is  quite  a  fast 
color. 

Yellow  on  Silk. — For  ten  pounds  goods,  use  sugar  of  lead  seven  and  a 
half  ounces,  alum  two  pounds ;  enter  the  goods,  and  let  them  remain  twelve 
hours;  remove  them,  drain,  and  make  a  new  dye  with  fustic  one  pounds. 
Immerse  until  the  color  suits. 

Red  Dye  for  Wool. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  make  a  tolerably  thick 
l)aste  of  lac  dye  and  sulphuric  acid,  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  a  day.  Now 
take  tartar  one  pound,  tin  liquor  half  a  pound,  and  twelve  ounces  of  the 
above  paste ;  make  a  hot  bath  with  sufficient  water,  and  enter  the  goods  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  afterwards  carefully  rinse  and  dry. 

Yellow  on  Cotton. — For  ten  pounds  goods,  use  sugar  of  lead  one  pound, 
dip  the  goods  two  hours.  Make  a  new  dye  with  bichromate  of  potash  half  a 
pound;  dip  until  the  color  suits;  wring  out  and  dry  ;  if  not  yellow  enough, 
repeat  the  operation. 

Violet  Dye  on  Silk  or  Wool. — A  good  violet  dye  may  be  given  by  pass- 
ing the  goods  first  through  a  solution  of  verdigris,  then  through  a  decoction 
of  logwood,  and  lastly  alum  water.  Xfast  violet  may  be  given  by  dyeing  the 
goods  crimson  with  cochineal,  without  alum  or  tartar,  and,  after  rinsing, 
passing  them  through  the  indigo  vat.  Linens'  or  aottons  are  first  galled  with 
eighteen  per  cent,  of  gall  nuts ;   next  passed  through  a  mordant  of  alum, 


COLOHINQ  ASD  BLEACHING.  623 

iron  liquor,  and  sulphate  of  copper,  working  them  well ;  then  worked  in  a 
madder  hath  made  with  an  equal  weight  of  root ;  and  lastly  brightened  with 
soap  pr  soda. 

Slat£  Dye  on  Silk.— For  a  small  quantit3%  take  a  pan  of  warm  water  and 
about  a  teacupful  of  logwood  liquor,  pretty  strong,  and  a  piece  of  pearl  ash 
the  size  of  a  nut;  take  gray  colored  goods  and  handle  a  little  in  this  liquid, 
and  it  is  finished.  If  too  nmch  logwood  is  used,  the  color  will  be  too  dark! 
For  a  straw  color  on  silk,  use  swart  weed ;  boil  in  a  brass  vessel,  and  set  with 
alum. 

L1L.VC  Dye  on  Silk.— For  five  pounds  of  silk,  use  archil  seven  and  a  halt 
pound.s  ;   mix  it  well  with  the  liquor;  make  it  ooil  quarter  of  an  hour;  <])[> 
the  8ilk  quickly,  then  let  it  cool,  and  wash  it  in  river  water,  and  a  fine  haii- 
violet,  or  lilac,  more  or  less  full,  will  be  obtained. 

GiiEEN  Dye  on  Silk. — Take  green  ebony,  boil  it  in  water,  and  let  it  settle; 
take  tlie  clear  liquor,  as  hot  as  you  can  bear  your  hands  in  it,  and  handle 
your  goods  in  it  until  of  a  bright  yellow ;  then  take  water  and  put  in  a  little 
sulphate  of  indipo ;  handle  your  goods  in  this  till  of  the  shade  desired.  The 
ebony  may  previously  be  boiled  in  a  bag  to  prevent  it  sticking  to  the  silk. 

Brown  on  Silk. — ^Diss^lve  annatto  one  pound,  pearl  ash  four  pounds,  in 
boiling  water,  and  uass  the  silk  through  it  for  two  hours;  then  take  it  out, 
squeeze  it  well  ana  dry;  next  give  it  a  mordant  of  alum,  and  pass  it  first 
through  a  bath  of  Brazil-wood,  and  afterward  through  a  bath  of  logwood  to 
which  a  little  ^en  copperas  has  been  added ;  wring  it  out  and  dry  ;  after- 
ward rinse  well. 

Mulberry  on  Silk. — For  five  pounds  of  silk,  use  alum  one  poun^  and  a 
quarter;  dip  fifty  minutes;  wash  out,  and  make  a  dye  with  Brazil-wood  five 
ouncesand  logwood  one  and  a  quarter  ounces,  by  boiling  together;  dip  in  this 
half  an  hour ;  then  add  more  Brazil-wood  and  logwood,  equal  parts,  until 
the  color  suits. 

Grken  Dye  on  Wool  and  Silk. — Equal  quantities  of  yellow  oak  and 
hickory  bark;  make  a  strong  yellow  bath  by  ooiling;  shade  to  the  desired 
tint,  by  adding  a  small  quantity  of  extract  of  indigo. 

Orange  Dye. — For  ten  pounds  of  goods,  use  sugar  of  lead  half  a  pound ; 
boil  fifteen  minutes ;  when  a  little  cool,  enter  tlie  goods,  and  dip  lor  two 
hours ;  wring  them  out,  make  a  fresh  dye  with  bichromate  of  potash  one 
pound,  madder  quarter  of  a  pound  ;  immerse  until  of  the  desired  color.  The 
shade  may  be  varied  bv  dipping  in  lime-water. 

Blue  on  Cotton. — i\)r  ten  pounds  of  ^oods,  use  copperas  half  a  pound ; 
boil,  and  dip  twenty  minutes;  then  dip  m  soap-suds,  and  return  to  the  dye 
three  or  four  times;  then  make  a  new  bath  with  prussiate  of  potash  two 
ounces,  oil  of  vitriol  one- third  of  a  pint ;  boil  half  an  hour ;  rinse  out  and 
dry. 

Solverino  and  Magenta  Dyes  on  White  Woolen,  Silk,  or  Cotton  and 
Woolen  Mixtures. — For  one  pound  of  woolen  goods,  Magenta  shade,  ninetv- 
six  grains,  a|»othecarie.s'  weight,  of  aniline  red  will  be  required ;  dissolve  In 
a  little  warm  alculiol,  u.sing — say — six  fluid  ounces  of  alcohol,  or  about  six 
p:ills  alcohol,  per  ounce  of  aniline.  Many  dj'ers  use  wood  spirit,  because  of 
its  cheapness.  For  a  Solferino  shade  use  sixty-four  grains  aniline  red,  dis- 
solved in  four  ounces  alcohol,  to  each  pound  of  goods.  Cold  water,  one 
quart,  will  dissolve  these  small  quantities  of  aniline  red,  but  the  cleanest  and 
quickest  way  will  be  found  by  using  the  alcohol  or  wood  spirit.  Clean  the 
cloth  and  goods  by  steeping,  at  a  gentle  heat,  in  weak  soap  suds;  rinse  in 
several  messes  of  clean  water,  and  lay  aside  moist.  The  alcoholic  solution 
of  aniline  is  to  be  added  from  time  to  time  to  the  warm  or  hot  dye  bath,  till 
the  color  on  the  goods  is  of  the  desired  shade.  The  goods  are  to  be  removed 
from  the  dye  bath  before  each  addition  of  the  alcoholic  solution,  and  the 
bath  is  t<)  be  well  stirred  before  the  goods  arc  returned.  The  alcoholic  solu- 
tion should  be  first  dropped  into  a  little  water,  and  well  mixed,  and  the 
mixture  should  then  be  strained  into  the  dye  batn.    If  the  color  is  not  dark 


624  COLORING  AND  BLEACHJNQ 

enough  after  workins  frum  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  repeat  the  .removal  of 
the  goods  from  the  oath  and  the  addition  of  the  solution,  and  the  re-im- 
mersion of  the  goods  from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes  more,  or  until  suited ; 
then  remove  from  the  bath  and  rinse  in  several  messes  of  clean  water,  and 
dry  in  the  shade.  Use  about  four  gallons  water  for  dye  bath  for  one  pound 
of  goods ;  less  water  for  larger  quantities. 

LiQxnD  Dye  Colors. — 1.  Blue. — Dilute  Saxon  blue,  or  sulphate  of  indigo, 
with  water.  If  required  for  delicate  work,  neutralize  with  chalk.*  2.  Purple. 
— Add  a  little  alum  to  a  strained  decoction  of  logwood.  .3.  Green. — ^Dissolve 
sap  green  in  water,  and  add  a  little  alum.  4.  Yellow. — Dissolve  annatto  in  a 
weak  lye  of  subcarbonate  of  soda,  or  potash.  5.  Golden  cotor.^5teep  French 
l)orries  in  hot  water,  strain,  and  add  a  little  gum  and  alum.  6.  Red. — Dis- 
solve carmine  in  ammonia,  or  in  weak  carbonate  of  potash  water;  or  infuse 
powdered  cochineal  in  water,  strain,  and  add  a  little  gum  in  water.  The 
preceding  colors,  thickened  with  a  little  gum,  may  be  used  as  inks  in  writing, 
or  as  colors  to  tint  maps,  foils,  artificial  tlowers,  etc.,  or  to  paint  on  velvet. 

To  Cleanse  Wool. — Make  a  hot  bath  composed  of  water  four  parts,  urine 
one  part;  enter  the  wool,  opening  it  out  toadmit  the  full  action  otthe  liquid ; 
after  twenty  minutes'  immersion,  remove  from  the  liquid,  and  allow  it  to 
drain;  then  rinse  it  in  clean  running  water,  and  spread  out  to  dry.  The 
liquid  is  good  for  subsequent  operations  ;  only  keep  up  the  propertions,  and 
use  no  soap. 

Violet  Dye  on  Straw  Bonnets. — Take  alum  four  pounds,  tartaric  acid 
one  pound,  chloride  of  tin  one  pound.  Dissolve  and  boil;  allow  the  hats  to 
remain  in  the  boiling  solution  two  hours;  then  add  as  much  of  a  decoction 
of  logwood  and  carmine  of  indigo  as  is  requisite  to  induce  the  desired  shade ; 
and  lastly,  rinse  finally  in  w^ater  in  which  some  alum  has  been  dissolved. 

SiLVEB*^  Gray  Dye  on  Straw. — For  five  hats — select  the  whitest  hats,  and 
soften  them  in  a  bath  of  crystallized  soda,  to  which  some  clean  lime  water 
has  been  added,  (See  **  Lime  water.^')  Boil  for  two  hours,  in  a  large  vessel, 
using  for  bath  a  decoction  of  the  following,  viz. :  alum  one  pound,  tartaric 
acid  one-tenth  of  a  pound,  some  ammoniacal  cochineal,  and  carmine  of  in- 
digo ;  a  little  sulphuric  acid  may  be  necessary  in  order  to  neutralize  the 
alkali  of  the  cochineal  dye.  If  the  last^mentioned  ingredients  are  used,  let 
tlie  hats  remain- for  an  hour  longer  in  the  boiling  bath,  then  rinse  in  slightly 
acidulated  water. 

Lime  Water  for  Dyers'  Use. — Put  stone  lime  one  pound,  and  strong  lime- 
water  one  and  a  half  pounds,  into  a  pail  of  water;  rummage  well  for  seven 
or  eight  minutes;  then  let  it  rest  until  the  lime  is  precipitated  and  the  water 
clear;  add  this  quantity  to  a  tubful  of  clear  water. 

Aniline  Green  on  Silk. — Iodine  green,  or  night  green,  dissolves  easilv  in 
warm  water.  For  a  liquid  dye,  one  pound  may  be  dissolved  in  one  gallon 
alcohol,  and  mixed  with  two  gallons  water  containing  one  ounce  sulphuric 
acid. 

To  Dye  Aniline  Scarlet. — ^For  every  ten  pounds  of  goods  dissolve  half 
a  pound  white  vitriol  (sulphate  of  zinc),  at  180®  Fall. ;  place  the  goods  into 
tins  bath  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  the  color,  prepared  by  boiling  for  a  few 
minutes,  quarter  of  a  pound  aniline  scarlet  in  tnree-quarters  of  a  gallon 
water,  stirring  the  same  continually.  This  solution  has  to  be  filtered  before 
being  added  to  the  bath.  The  goods  remain  in  the  latter  for  fifteen  minutes, 
when  they  have  become  browned,  and  must  be  boiled  for  another  half  hour 
in  the  same  bath  after  the  addition  of  sal-ammoniac.  The  more  of  this  is 
added  the  deeper  will  be  the  shade. 

Bismarck   Brown  for  Dyeing. — Mix  together  one  pound  Bismarck,  five 

Sallons  water,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  sulphuric  acid.  This  paste 
issolves  easily  in  hot  water,  and  may  be  used  directly  for  dyeing.  A  liquid 
dye  may  be  prepared  by  making  the  oulk  of  the  above  mixture  to  two  gal- 
lons, wfth  afcohol.  To  dye  with  the  above  mixture,  sour  with  sulphurio 
acid ;  add  a  quantity  of  sulphate  of  soda,  immerse  the  wool,  and  aad  the 


COLORING  AND  BLEACHING.  625 

color  by  small  portions,  keeping  the  temperature  under  212**  Fah.  Very  in- 
teresting shades  may  be  developed  by  combining  the  color  with  indigo  paste 
or  picric  acid. 

To  Dye  Wool  with  Aniune  Green. — For  wool,  prepare  two  baths— one 
containing  the  dissolved  dye  and  a  quantity  of  carbonate  of  soda  or  borax. 
In  this  the  wool  is  placed,  and  the  temperature  is  raised  to  212^  Fah.    A 

f  ravish  green  is  produced,  which  must  be  Drightened  and  fixed  in  a  second 
ath  of  water  100^  Fah.,  to  which  some  acetic  acid  has  been  added.    Cotton 
requires  preparation  by  sumac. 

Aniline  Blub. — To  ten  pounds  of  fabric,  dissolve  two  ounces  aniline  blue 
in  three-tenths  of  a  quart  hot  alcohol ;  strain  through  a  filter,  and  add  it  to 
a  bath  of  130°  Fah. ;  also  one  pound  glauber  stilts,  and  half  a  pound  acetic 
acid :  enter  the  goods,  and  handle  them  well  for  twenty  minutes ;  next  heat 
it  slowly  to  200°  Fah. ;  then  add  half  a  pound  sulphuric  acid  diluted  with 
water ;  let  the  whole  boil  twenty  minutes  longer ;  then  rinse  and  dry.  If  the 
aniline  be  added  in  two  or  three  proportions  during  the  process  of  coloring, 
it  will  facilitate  the  evenness  of  the  color. 

Aniline  Bed. — Inclose  the  aniline  in  a  small  muslin  bag;  have  a  kettle 
<tin  or  brass)  tilled  with  moderately  hot  water,  and  rub  the  substance  out; 
tlien  immerse  the  goods  to  be  colored,  and  in  a  short  time  they  are  done.  It 
improves  the  color  to  wring  the  goods  out  of  strong  soap-suds  before  putting 
them  in  the  dye.    This  is  a  permanent  color  on  wool  or  silk. 

Aniline  Violet  and  Purple. — Acidulate  the  bath  by  sulphuric  acid,  or 
use  sulphate  of  soda— both  those  substances  render  the  shade  bluish.  Dye 
at  212°  Fah.  To  give  a  fair  middle  shade  to  ten  pounds  of  wool,  a  quantity 
of  solution  equal  to  one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  the  solid  dye 
will  be  required.  The  color  of  the  dyed  fabric  is  improved  by  washing  in 
soap  and  water,  and  then  passing  through  a  bath  soured  by  sulphuric  acid. 

Aniline  Black  for  Dyking.— Water  twenty  to  thirty  parts,  chlorate  of 
potassa  one  part^  sal-ammoniac  one  part,  chloride  of  copper  one  part,  aniline 
hydrochloric  acid  one  part,  previously  mixed  together.    It  is  essential  that 
the  preparation  should  be  acid,  and  the  more  acid  it  is  the  more  rapid  will 
be  the  production  of  the  blacks;  if  too  much  so,  it  may  injure  the  fabric 

Aniline  Brown  Dye. — Dissolve  one  pound  of  the  browni  in  two  gallons 
of  spirit,  specific  gravity  8200 ;  add  a  sufficient  quantity  to  the  dye  bath,  and 
immerse  the  fabric.  Wool  possesses  a  very  strong  affinity  foi  this  color,  and 
no  mordant  is  required. 

To  Bleach  Feat hkrs.— Place  the  feathers  from  three  to  four  hours  in 
a  tepid  dilute  solution  of  bichromate  of  potassa,  to  which,  cautiously,  some 
nitric  acid  has  been  added  (a  small  quantity  only).  To  remove  a  greenish 
bue  induced  by  this  solution,  place  them  in  a  dilute  solution  of  sulphuric 
acid,  in  water,  whereby  the  feathers  become  perfectly  white  and  bleached. 

To  Clean  Straw  Bonnets. — First  brush  tnem  with  soap  and  water,  then 
with  a  solution  of  oxalic  acid. 

Crimson  for  Silk. — For  one  pound  of  silk,  alum  three  ounces;  dip,  at 
hand-heat,  one  hour;  take  out,  and  drain,  while  making  a  new  dye,  by 
boiling  ten  minutes,  c<ichineal  three  ounces,  bruised  gall-puts  two  ounces, 
and  cream  of  tartar  half  an  ounce,  in  one  pail  of  water;  when  a  little  cool, 
beKin  to  dip,  raising  the  heat  to  a  boil,  continuing  to  dip  one  hour;  wash 
and  dry. 

Cinnamon  or  Brown  on  Cotton  and  Silk.— Give'  the  goods  as  much  color 
from  a  solution  of  blue  vitriol  (two  ouces  to  water  one  ^Uon)  as  it  will  take 
up  in  dipping  fifteen  minutes;  then  run  it  through  lime-water;  this  will 
make  a  beautiful  sky-blue  of  much  durability;  it  has  now  to  be  run  through 
a  solution  of  prussiate  of  pota.*«h,  one  ounce  to  water  one  gallon. 

To  Color  Straw  H.\ts  or  Bonnets  a  Beautiful  Slate.— First  soak  the 
bonnet  in  rather  stwng  warm  suds  for  fifteen  minutes,  to  remove  sizing 
or  stiffening ;  then  rinse  in  warm  water,  to  get  out  the  soap ;  now  scald  cnd- 
he&T  one  ounce  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  hat  or  bonnet;  work  the 


626  COLORING  AND  BLEACHIXO. 

hat  or  bonnet  ki  this  dye,  at  180°  of  heat,  until  you  get  a  light-purpLe  ;  now 
have  a  bucket  of  cold  water^  blued  with  the  extract  of  indigo  half  an  ounce, 
and  work  or  stir  the  bonnet  in  this  until  the  tint  pleases ;  dry,  then  rinse  out 
with  cold  water,  and  dry  aeain  in  the  shade.  If  you  get  the  purple  too  deep 
in  shade,  the  final  slate  will  be  too  dark. 

To  Clean  Ostrich  Feathers. — Cut  some  white  curd  soap  in  small  pieces; 
pour  boiling  water  on  them,  and  add  a  litUe  pearl  ash.  When  the  soap  is 
quite  dissolved  and  the  mixture  cool  enuugh  for  the  hand  to  bear,  phin^ 
tne  feathers  into  it,  and  draw  them  tlirough  the  hand  till  the  dirt  ai^iears 
squeezed  out  of  them;  pass  them  tli%>ugh  a  clean  lather  with  some  blue  in 
it ;  then  rinse  them  in  cold  water  with  blue,  to  give  them  a  good  color. 
Beat  them  against  the  hand,  to  siiake  off  the  water,  and  dry  by  shaking  them 
near  a  fire.  When  i>erfectly  dry,  coil  each  fiber  separately  with  a  blunt  knife 
or  ivory  folder. 

To  Clean  Furs. — For  dark  furs,  warm  a  quantity  of  new  bran  in  a  pan, 
taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn,  to  prevent  which  it  must  be  briskly  stirred. 
When  well  warmed,  rub  it  thoroughly  into  the  fur  with  the  hand.  Repeat 
this  two  or  three  times;  then  shake  the  fur,  and  give  it  another  sharp  brush- 
ing, until  free  from  dust.  For  white  furs,  lay  them  on  a  table,  and  rub  well 
with  bran  made  moist  with  wami  water;  rub  until  quit«  dry,  and  afterward 
with  dry  bran.  The  wet  bran  should  be  put  on  with  flannel;  then  dry  with 
book  muslin.  Light  furs,  in  addition  to  the  above,  sh*ould  be  well  rubbed 
witli  magnesia,  or  a  piece  of  book  muslin,  after  the  bran  process,  against  the 
way  of  the  fur. 

(/HIP  OR  Straw  Hats  or  Bon.vkts  may  be  dyed  black  by  boiling  them 
three  or  four  hoars  in  a  strong  liquor  of  logwood,  adding  a' little  copperas 
occasionally.  Let  the  bonnets  remain  in  the  liquor  all  night;  then  take  out 
to  dry  in  the  air ;  if  the  black  is  not  satisfactory,  dye  again  after  drjing. 
Kub  inside  and  out  with  a  spon^  moistened  in  fine  oil;  then  block.  Red 
Dye. — Boil  ground  Brazil-wood  in  a  lye  of  pota.sh,  and  boil  your  straw  hats, 
etc.,  in  it.  Blue  Dye. — Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of  potash  lye,  one  pound 
of  litmus,  or  lacmus,  ground  ;  make  a  decoction,  and  then  put  in  the  straw, 
and  boil  it.  « 

Method  op  Bleaching  Straw. — Dip  the  straw  in  a  .solution  of  oxygenated 
muriatic  acid  saturated  with  i)Otash.  (Oxygenated  muriate  of  lime  is  much 
cheaper.)  The  straw  is  thus  rendered  very  white,  and  its  flexibility  is  in- 
crease<i. 

Bleaching  Straw  Goods. — Straw  is  bleached  by  simplv  exposing  it  in  a 
closed  chamber  to  the  fumes  of  burning  sulphur — an  old  flour  barrel  is  the 
apparatus  most*used  for  the  purpose  by  milliners,  a  flat  stone  being  laid  on 
the  ground,  the  sulphur  ignited  thereon,  and  the  barrel,  containing  the  goods 
to  be  bleached,  turned  over  it.  The  goods  should  be  previouslj  washed  hi 
pure  water. 

Varnish  for  Faded  Rubber  Qoods. — Black  Japan  vaniish  diluted  -with  a 
little  linseed  oil. 

To  Bleach  Linen. — Mix  common  bleaching  powder  in  the  proportion  of 
one  pound  to  a  gallon  of  water ;  stir  it  occasionally  for  three  davs ;  let  it 
settle,  and  p^jur  it  off  clear  Then  make  a  lye  of  one  pound  of  soda  to  one 
gallon  of  boiling  soft  water,  ir  which  soak  the  linen  for  twelve  hours,  and 
Doil  it  half  an  hour.  Next  soak  it  in  the  bleaching  lic^uor,  made  as  above; 
and,  lastly,  wash  it  in  the  usual  manner.  Discolored  linen  or  muslin  may 
be  restored  by  putting  a  portion  of  bleaching  liquor  into  (he  tub  wherein 
the  articles  are  soaking. 

Dye  for  Feathers. — Black — Immerse  for  two  or  three  days  in  a  bath,  at 
first  hot,  of  logwood  eight  parts,  and  copperas,  or  acetate  of  iron,  one  part. 
Blue — with  the  indigo  vat  Brown — by  using  any  of  the  brown  dyes  for  silk 
or  woolen.  Crimson — a  mordant  of  alum,  followed  by  a  hot  bath  of  Brazil- 
wood, afterward  by  a  weak  dye  of  cudbear.  Pirik  or  Rose — with  safflower  or 
lemon  juice.     Flumr-vfith  the  red  dye,  followed  by  an  alkaline  bath.     Red 


COLORING  AND  BLEACHING.        •  627 

mordant  of  alum,  followed  by  a  bath  of  Brazil-wood.  YeUow — a  mordant 
of  alum,  followed  by  a  bath  of  turmeric  or  weld.  Oreen  Dye — take  of  verdigris 
and  verditer,of  each  one  ounce,  gum  water  one  pint;  mix  them  well,  and  dip 
the  feathers,  they  having  been  first  soaked  in  hot  water,  into  the  said  mix- 
ture. For  Purple,  use  lake  and  indigo.  For  Carnation,  Vermillion  and 
smalt.    Thin  gum  or  starch  water  should  be  used  in  dyeing  feathers. 

Colors  for  Artificial  Flowers. — The  French  employ  velvet,  fine  cambric, 
And  kid  for  the  petals,  and  talfeta  for  the  leaves.  Very  recently  thin  plates 
of  bleached  whalebone  have  been  used  for  some  portions  of  the  artificial 
flowers.  Colors  and  Stains : — Blue — Incngo,  dissolved  in  oil  of  vitriol,  and 
the  acid  partly  neutralized  with  salt  of  tartar  or  whiting.  Green — a  solution? 
of  distilled  verdigris.  Lilac — liquid  archil.  iJ<J(i— carmine  dissolved  in  a 
solution  of  salt  oi  tartar,  or  in  spirits  of  hartshorn.  Violet— rliquid  archil, 
mixed  with  a  little  salt  of  tartar.  Yellow — tincture  of  turmeric.  The  colors 
are  generally  applied  with  the  fingers. 

Black  Varnish  for  Chip  and  Straw  Hats. — Best  alcohol  four  ounces, 
pulverized  black  sealing-wax  one  ounce  ;  ^ut  them  into  a  phial,  and  put  the 

Shial  into  a  warm  place,  stirring  or  shaking  occasionally  until  the  wax  is 
isHolved.     Apply  it,  when  warm,  before  the  fire  or  in  the  sun.    This  makes 
a  beautiful  gloss. 

Dyf^  for  Furs. — Brown — use  tincture  "of  logwood.  lUd — ground  Brazil- 
wood half  a  pound,  water  one  and  a  half  quarts,  cochineal  half  an  ounce ; 
boil  the  Brazil-wood  in  the  water  one  hour ;  strain  and  add  the  cochineal ; 
boil  fifteen  minutes.  Scarlet  color — boil  lialf  an  ounce  saffron  in  half  a 
pint  of  water,  and  pass  o\^r  the  work  before  applying  the  red.  Blue — 
logwood  seven  ounces,  blue  vitriol  one  ounce,  water  twenty-two  ounces; 
boil.  Purpfc— logwood  eleven  ounces,  alum  six  ounces,  water  twenty-nine 
ounces.  Green — strong  vinegar  one  and  a  half  pints,  best  verdigris  twa 
ounces  (ground  fine),  sap  green  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  ;  mix  all  together, 
and  beil. 

To  Raise  a  Nap  on  Cioth, — Clean  the  article  well ;  soak  it  in  cold  water 
for  half  an  hour ;  put  it  on  a  board,  and  rub  the  thread-bare  parts  with  a 
balf-worn  hatter^s  card  filled  with  flocks,  or  with  a  teazle,  or  a  prickly  tbistilir 
\iiitil  a  nap  is  raised ;  then  lay  the  nap  the  right  way  with  a  hatter's  brush, 
and  hang  up  to  dry. 

Fine  Claret  for  Wool. — Boil  thirteen  pounds  of  goods  two  hours  with 
seven  pounds  of  camwood,  one-tenth  pound  logwood,  and  one  fourth  pound 
of  copperas  to  darken. 

Russian  Brown  for  Wool. — For  thirteen  pounds  goods,  boil  two  pounds 
fustic  and  four  pounds  camwood  an  hour,  and  if  too  light  color,  add  one- 
tenth  pound  each  copperas  and  alum  to  darken. 

Bottlf^oreen  for  vV  ool. — Boil  ten  pounds  wool  with  one-tenth  pound 
chrome  and  one-fifth  pound  alum ;  take  out,  put  in  a  vessel  of  clean  water 
tliree  pounds  fustic  and  one  and  a  half  pounds  logwood,  and  boil  another 
hour, 

Bu\CK  for  Wool. — For  twenty-five  pounds  of  goods,  boil  g(X)ds  in  a  solu- 
tion of  five-eights  pounds  each  bichromate  potash  and  blue  vitriol,  and 
one-half  pound  argol,  one  hour;  take  out,  re-fill  kettle  with  clean  water, 
and  add  three  pounds  dissolved  extract  of  logwood ;  i>ut  in  goods,  and 
simmer  one  hour  and  a  half;  take  out,  rinse,  scour  with  soap,  and  dry. 
This  makes  a  blue-black.  To  make  a  jet-black,  add  tliree  pounds  fustio 
with  the  logwood. 

Blue  for  Cotton. — Put  ten  'po^r^ds  cotton,  two  and  a  half  pounds  cop- 
peras, in  ti/teen  to  twenty  gallons  water,  and  boil  two  hours ;  after  boiling, 
take  out,  rinse  in  clear  water,  re-fill  kettle  with  water,  and  add  one-half 
pound  prussiate  of  potash.  Boil  goods  in  this  half  an  hour,  lift  out  goods, 
and  slowly  add  one  half  pound  oil  of  vitriol;  return  goods,  and  boil  half  an 
hour.     Rfnse  in  clear  water,  and  dry. 

Gbeen  fob  Cotton. — Add  eight  pounds  fustic  and  one-hall   pound  alum 


628  .        COLORING  ASD  BLEACHING, 

to  the  blue  mixture  of  the  preceding  rule,  put  in  goods,  and  simmer  until 
the  required  shade  of  green  is  obtained. 

Chromjb- YELLOW  FOR  CoTTON.— For  fifteen  pounds  cotton  goods  or  yarns, 
dissolve  eight  ounces  of  white  sugar  of  lead  in  one  tub,  and  eight  ounces 
of  chrome  in  another.  Put  goods  first  in  with  sugar  of  lead,  wring  out 
ffoods  well,  and  shake  bark  into  the  liquid  again,  repeating  tlie  operation 
fire  times  (in  onler  to  make  the  goods  absorb  as  much  color  as  posaible); 
then  put  them  through  the  chrome  tub  in  the  same  wav ;  tlien  return 
again  to  the  sugar  of  lead  tub ;  treat  as  Xyiiore ;  rinse  off  well,  and  dry.  To 
make  a  dark  shade,  use  brown  sugi^  of  lead,  repeating  three  times  in  the 
sugar  of  lead  and  twice  in  the  chrome. 

A  Good  Black  fob  Cotton. — To  a  tub  of  cold  water  add,  for  twenty 
pounds  goods,  five  pounds  sumac ;  wring  and  shake  out  goods,  and  returii 
to  liquid  a  few  times;  let  stand  all  niglit  in  sumac:  then  to  another  tub 
of  water  add  a  few  pails  of  lime-water;  put  in  goods,  wring  out,  and  put 
into  another  tub  of  coid  water  iu  which  is  two  pounds  of  dissolved  cop* 
peras  and  a  pailful  of  old  8umac  liquor;  wring  out  six  times;  wring  out* 
and  put  into  the  lime-tub  again,  adding  two  more  pails  of  lime-water. 
Prepare  another  tub  of  water,  and  adding  to  it  six  pounds  of  logwood  and 
one  pound  of  fustic  previously  scalded ;  put  in  the  cotton,  and  wring  out 
and  return  ten  times;  lift  out,  darken  liquid  with  a  little  copperas,  and  re- 
turn the  goods.  The  omission  of  the  sumac  gives  a  purplish  black,  while 
the  recipe  as  above  gives  a  jet  black. 

To  Dye  Blue. — A  very  beautiful  biue  may  be  produced  in  an  hour  by  the 
following  process:  "  For  each  pound  of  material* take  two  and  a  half  ounces 
of  alum  and  one  and  a  half  of  cream  tartar.  Boil  them  together  in  a  bra^s 
or  copper  kettle  for  about  an  hour.  Take  sufficient  warm  water  to  cover  the' 
floods,  and  color  it  to  the  shade  you  Tiiay  desire  with  chemic  blue.  Put  all 
mto  the  copper  kettle,  and  boil  it  a  short  time,  taking  care  to  keep  it  stirred 
all  the  time ;  remove  the  cloth,  wash  in  clear  cold  water,  and  hang  up  to 
dry." 

Royal  Blub  fob  Silk.— Take  ten  pounds  of  silk,  make  up  a  tub  of  nitrate 
of  iron  at  six  decrees,  to  which  add  one  pint  of  good  muriate  of  tin  and  four 
ounces  of  tartaric  acid ;  wring  out  and  return,  repeating  for  about  an  hour; 
in  another  tub,  add  one  and  a  half  ;)ounds  of  dissolved  prussiate  and  one 
gill  of  oil  of  vitriol.  Wash  goods  out  of  iron  tub,  and  put  into  prussiate 
tub ;  repeat  in  iron  twice  and  once  in  prussiate  ;  wash  out  of  the  iron,  and 
put  in  a  tub  in  which  oil  of  vitriol,  until  it  tastes  sour,  has  been  dissolved; 
jrive  six  wrings  to  clear  of  any  rust  that  may  adhere  to  it.  More  prussiate 
will  produce  a  darker,  and  a  less  a  lighter  color,  but  the  same  quantity  of 
iron  and  tin  must  be  used. 

Yellow-bbown  for  Woolen  YABN.—For  ten  bunches,  dye  with  tw^o 
pounds  of  camwood,  five  pounds  fustic,  and  one  each  of  logwood  and  cop- 
peras. 

ScABLET  FOB  Woolen  Yabn.— Boil  eight  pounds  yarn  one  hour  with  one- 
half  pound  cochmeal,  two  pounds  of  young  fustic,"  seven-tenths  of  a  pound 
of  white  or  brown  tartar,  three-tenths  of  a  quart  of  oxalic  muriate  of  tin. 

Purple  for  Ladies'  Cloth.— For  twenty-five  vards  goods,  boil  two  and  a 
half  hours  with  ten  pounds  of  alum,  two  pounds  of  argol,  and  one-fourth  of 
a  quart  nitrate  of  tin;  wash  well,  and  finish  with  seven  and  a  half  pounds 
logwood  and  one  pound  of  peach-wood  in  a  clean  vessel.  Put  in  oool  in 
fimshmg,  and  heat  to  boiling-point 


MEDICAL. 


When  people  fall  9ick  they  seem  to  lose  what  little  common  sense  they 
poesessed  when  well.  Men  and  women  who  are  reasonably  wise  aiKl  rea- 
sonable in  other  matters,  cherish  the  most  absurd  superstitions,  and  follow 
the  advice  of  the  most  transparent  quacks  when  it  comes  to  disease  and 
medicine.  A  little  reflection  will  convince  any  reasonable  person  that  no 
single  medicine  will  cure  all  diseases,  indeed  no  medicine  will  cure  the 
same  disease  in  different  persons,  and  in  different  stages.  Any  candid 
physician  will  admit  that  the  use  of  medicines  by  the  most  skillful  and  ex- 
perienced practitioner,  is,  to  a  great  extent,  an  experiment.  What  is  "one 
man's  meat  is  another*8  poison,'*  and  even  the  best  physician  needs  to  know 
the  constitution  of  the  patient,  and  to  study  the  symptoms  of  disease  before 
he  can  prescribe  safely,  to  say  nothixu;  of  curing  the  disease.  And  yet 
there  are  intelligent  men  and  women  who  buy  patent  nostrums,  and  pour 
them  down  their  throats,  knowing  nothing  of  the  disease,  or  of  the  prob- 
able effect  of  the  alleged  remedy.  For  instance,  a  child  has  a  cough  and  a 
** cough  remedy"  is  purchased  and  dealt  out.  Now,  there  are  many  kinds 
of  coughs.  The  cough  may  be  "dry,"  or  it  may  be  "loose;"  the  symptoms 
may  differ  in  various  ways,  and  yet  the  "  cough  remedy  "  given  for  a  "  dry" 
cough  may  be  intended  for  a  "loose"  one,  and  so  all  the  symptoms  may 
be  aggravated,  perhaps,  with  a  fatal  result.  The  physician's  advice  and  ex- 
perience is  chiefly  valuable  to  tell  us  what  the  disease  is  and  the  best  pos- 
sible treatment  for  it  It  is  dangerous  in  the  extreme  to  administer  any 
powerful  remedy,  or  any  medicine  the  noiure  and  effect  of  which  are  not  knotvnf 
without  the  advice  of  some  one  who  knows  the  disease  and  its  probable  effect, 
The  household  medicine  chest  should  contain  only  simple  remedies,  the 
effect  of  which,  at  worst,  can  not  be  very  injurious;  and  in  all  dangerous 
or  violent  diseases  a  physician  should  be  promptly  called. 


For  Colds,  drink  hot  pennyroyal  tea. 

Glycerine  is  excellent  to  rub  on  chafes,  bums,  or  chapped  hands  or  sun 
scalds. 

For  Burns.— Lime-water,   olive-oil,  and  glycerine,  equal  parts;  applied 
on  lint 

Liniment. — Three  ounces  each  of  tincture  of  opium,  camphorated  oil,  and 
soap  liniment. 

For  Jaundice. — The  yolk  of  an  egg,  raw  or  slightly  cooked,  is  excellent 
food  in  jaundice. 

For  Quinsy,  gargle  with  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.    This  gives  great 
relief,  even  in  severe  cases. 

Liniment. — The  common  May-weed  blossoms  put  in  alcohol  are  much 
floperior  to  arnica  for  the  same  use. 

TO  Check  Vomiting — Give  a  tea-spoon  of  whole  black  mustard  seed.    A 
table-spoon  may  be  given  in  severe  cases. 

(«29) 


\ 


630  MEDICAL. 

For  Sick  Headache.— Whenever  the  symptoms  are  felt  coming  on,  drink 
A  cupful  of  thorough  wort  or  boneset-tea. 

For  Stiff  Joints. — Oil  made  by  trying  up  common  angle  worms,  is  ex- 
cellent to  apply  to  sinews  drawn  up  by  sprains  or  disease. 

pLErRisY.--<5iled  silk  placed  over  the  chest  of  those  siifTering  from 
pneumonia  or  pleurisy,  will  give  great  relief  and  hasten  recovery. 

For  Rheumatism. — To  one  pint  alcohol,  add  one  table-spoon  pulverized 
potash,  and  a  lump  of  gum-camphor  the  size  of  a  walnut.     Use  as  a  liniment 

Chronic  Diarrhcea  is  cured  by  drinking  orange-peel  tea;  sweeten  with 
loaf-sugar,  and  use  as  a  common  drink  for  twenty-four  to  thirty-six  hours. 

To  Stop  Bleeding. — Apply  wet  tea-leaves,  or  scrapings  of  sole-leather  to 
a  fresh  cut  and  it  will  stop  the  bleeding,  or  apply  a  paste  of  flour  and 
vinegar. 

To  Stop  Blebdino  at  the  Nose. — Bathe  the  feet  in  very  hot  water,  drink- 
ing at  the  same  time  a  pint  of  cayenne  pepper  tea,  or  hold  both  arms  above 
the  head. 

For  Dressing  Cuts,  Woi'nds  or  Sores. — Surgeon's  solution  of  carbolic 
acid  and  pure  glycerine  mixed  in  equal  parts,  and  applied  on  soft  lint  or 
linen  cloth. 

Dirt  in  the  Eye. — ^To  remove  .specks  of  dirt  from  the  eye,  immerse  the 
eye  in  cool  water,  then  wink  and  roll  the  eyeball  until  the  desired  result  is 
accomplished. 

Hoarseness. — It  is  said  hoarseney  may  be  relieved  by  using  the  white  of 
an  egg,  thoroughly  beaten,  mixed  v»%h  lemon-juice  and  sugar.  Take  a  tea- 
spoon ful  occasionally. 

Remedy  for  Piles. — Mix  a  tea-spoon  of  sulphur  with  a  tea-cup  of  milk, 
and  take  twice  a  dav,  morning  ana  night,  until  improvement  takes- place; 
then  take  occasionally. 

Wound  from  Ru.st"y  Nail. — Smoke  this  or  any  inflamed  wound  over  the 
fume  of  burning  woolen  cloth,  wool  or  sugar,  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  the 
pain  will  be  taken  out. 

For  Sprains. — ^The  white  of  an  egg,  and  salt  mixed  to  a  thick  paste  is  one 
of  the  best  remedies  for  sprains,  or  bruises,  or  lameness,  for  man  or  beast. 
Rub  well  the  part  affecto<l. 

To  Prevent  Sea-Sickness. — Make  a  pad  of  wool  or  horse  hair,  and  bind 
over  the  stomach.  Brandy  and  water,  very  weak,  is  the  best  remedy  tc 
allay  the  heat  and  irritation. 

A  Valuable  Liniment. — One  ounce  wormwood  to  one  pint  alcohol.  Or, 
bruise  the  green  stalks  of  wormwood,  moisten  with  vinegar,  and  apply  tc 
the  sprain.    Good  for  man  or  beast. 

To  Relieve  Asthma. — Wet  blotting-paper  in  strong  solution  of  salt* 
petre,  dry  it,  and  burn  a  piece  three  incnes  square  on  a  plate  in  sleeping- 
room,  anil  it  will  afford  quick  relief.  , 

Manna  and  Milk. — Take  a  quart  of  fresh  skim  milk,  and  boil  in  it  one 
ounce  of  manna;  drinking  this  quantity  cool,  in  small  draughts,  at  intervals 
during  the  day,  is  go(xi  for  consumptives. 

To  Prevent  Skin  from  Discoloring  after  a  Bruise. — Apply  immedi- 
ately, or  as  soon  as  possible,  a  little  dry  starch  or  arrow-root,  moistened  with 
cold'  water,  or  rub  over  with  common  table  butter. 

Sick  Headache. — Elixir  of  guarana,  prepared  by  Brewer  &  Co.,  Spring- 
field, Mass.  Take  one  tea-spoon  every  half  liour  until  four  have  been  takeOi 
on  tlie  first  intimation  that  the  headache  is  coming  on. 

Hot  Water  for  a  Cough. — For  a  tight,  hoarse  cough,  where  phlegm  is 
not  raised,  or  with  difficulty,  take  tiot  water  often,  as  hot  as  can  be  sipped. 
This  will  be  found  to  give  immediate  and  permanent  relief. 

Sprains  or  Lameness. — Two  ounces  camphorated  spirits,  two  ounces  sweet 
oil,  two  ounces  ammonia,  two  ounces  chloroform ;  shake  well  before  using, 
and  rub  it  in  by  a  fire.    It  is  very  excellent  for  a  family  liniment 

Cherokee  Liniment. *-One  ounce  gum-camphor,  dissolved  in  alcohol,  one 


MEDICAL.  631 

ounce  each  of  spirits  turpentine,  sweet  oil,  heihlock  oil,  origan uin  oil,  and 
cedar  oil,  two  ounces  spirits  hartshorn.  Use  externally.  Shake  well  before 
using. 

For  Burns  or  Bruisbs. — Apply  peach-tree  leaves,  the  smooth  side  next 
the  skin,  and  bind  theiu  on.  JPor  burns,  when  there  is  danger  of  mortifi- 
cation, or  even  if  it  has  already  set  in,  bind  on  strips  of  cloth  dipped  in 
clean  tar. 

Salve  for  Cuts  and  Burns. — To  one-half  pound  of  sweet  lard  add  one- 
fourth  pound  of  beeswax  and  the  same  of  resin ;  beat  all  together  till  well 
mixed ;  pour  in  a  little  tin  box.  Apply  a  little  to  the  wound  on  a  soft 
cotton  cloth. 

For  Ivy  Poisoning.— A  simple  and  effectual  remedy  for  ivy  poisoning,  is 
said  to  be  sweet  spirils  of  nitre.     Buthc  the  affected  parts  two  or  three  times 
during  the  day,  and  the  next  morning  scarcely  any  trace  of   the  poison  - 
will  remain. 

For  the  Lungs.— A  quart  (or  less  if  too  strong)  of  tar,  stirred  six  min- 
utes in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  one-fourth,  or  a  tumbler,  taken  four  times  a 
day,  an  hour  or  two  after  meals,  is  said  to  clear  the  lungs,  and  give  greater 
ease  in  public  speaking. 

SLEKPLES.<<Ness. — Wet  a  cloth  in  cold  water,  and  lay  it  on  the  back  of  the 
neck.  Fold  a  towel  smoothly  over  it,  and  very  often  it  will  soothe  the  "weary 
brain,  and  quiet  the  nerves  better  than  an  opiate.  It  is  particularly  useful 
in  case  of  a  dull  headache. 

Bee  Stings. — Anv  atsorbent  will  giv^  relief  from  bee  stings,  but  perhaps 
nothing  is  more  effectual  than  lean  raw  meat.  The  sting  of  a  bee  or  wasp 
may  be  almost  instantly  relieved  by  it.  It  is  said  to  cure  the  bite  of  a 
rattlesnake,  and  relieve  erysipelas. 

For  a  Cold. — Cayenne  pepper-tea  for  a  cold.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoon of  cayenne  pepper  in  a  tea-cup;  pour  over  hot  water  and  sweeten 
with  sugar.  Or,  steep  horseradish  in  a  gill  of  vinegar,  add  a  gill  of  honey, 
and  take  a  tea-spoon  every  twenty  minutes. 

Paste  for  Sckap-Books. — Corn-flour  makes  the  best  ptiste  for  scrap-b<x)ks. 
Dissolve  a  small  qiiautity  in  cold  water,  then  cocjk  it  thoroughly.  Be  careful 
not  to  get  it  too  tliick.  When  cold,  it  should  be  thin  enough  to  apply  witU 
a  brush.     It  will  not  mould  or  stain  the  paper. 

Blackened  Eye.— Should  the  eye  or  any  other  part  be  blackened  by  a  fall 
or  blow,  apply  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  very  vvarm  water,  and  renew  it  until  the 
pain  ceases.  The  moLsture  and  heat  liquefy  the  blood,  and  send  it  back  to  its 
proper  channel.     Never  use  cold  water  to  a  brui?*.'. 

For  Erysipelas. — A  simple  jwultice  made'  from  cranberries  pounded 
fine,  and  applied  in  a  raw  state,  is  said  to  be  a  certain  cure  ;  or  slip  off  the 
outer  bark  of  eider,  break  up  the  wood  with  the  inner  bark,  and  steep  in 
buttermilk;  drink  and  auply  to  the  parts  affected. 

For  Sorb  Throat. — Take  five  cents  worth  of  chlorate  of  potash,  dissolve, 
and  take  a  tea-spoon  every  hour,  and  also  gargle  with  it.  Or,  to  a  tea-cup 
vinegar  add  salt  and  cayenne  jiepper,  making  it  as  strong  as  can  be  taken 
(some  add  a  little  pulverized  alum),  and  gargle  often  with  it. 

Burns. — Common  baking  soda — the  bicarbonate — has  been  found  to  cure 
burns  or  scalds,  affording  immediate  relief  when  it  is  promptly  applied.  For 
a  dry  burn,  the  soda  should  be  made  into  paste  with  water.  For  a  scald  or 
wet  burned  surface,  the  powdered  soda  (or  borax  will  do  as  well)  should  be 
dusted  on. 

To  Relieve  Toothache. — Apply  powdered  alum,  or  fill  mouth  with  warm 
water,  and  immediately  after  with  cold ;  or  saturate  a  piece  of  cotton  with 
a  strong  .solution  of  ammonia,  and  apply  to  the  tooth.  For  toothache  and 
inflamed  face  caused  by  it,  apply  a  poultice  of  pounded  slippery-elm  bark 
and  cold  water. 

A  Good  Cure  for  Colds  is  to  boil  two  ounces  of  flaxseed  in  one  quart  of 
water;  strain  and  add  two  ounces  of  rock  candy,  one-half  pint  of  honey, 


632  MEDICAL. 

Juice  of  three  lemons;  mix,  and  let  all  boil  well ;  let  cool,  and  bottle.  Dose 
— One  cupful  before  bed,  one-half  cupful  before  meals.  The  hotter  you 
drink  it  the  better. 

Tapb  Worms  are  said  to  be  removed  by  refraining  from  supper  and  break- 
fast, and  at  eight  o*clock  taking  one-third  part  of  two  hundred  minoed 
pumpkin  seeds,  the  shells  of  which  have  been  removed  by  hot  water;  at 
nine  take  another  third,  at  ten  the  remainder,  and  follow  it  at  eleven  vdth 
strong  dose  of  castor-oil. 

For  Cold  in  the  Head. — As  soon  as  you  feel  that  you  have  a  cold  in  the 
head,  put  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  in  a  goblet,  and  on  it  put  six  drops  of  cam- 
phor, stir  it,  and  fill  the  glass  half  full  of  water;  stir,  till  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, then  take  a  dessert-spoonful  every  twenty  minutes.  This  is  a  sure 
cure  if  taken  as  directed. 

To  Prevent  Takincj  Cold.— If  out  in  cold  weather  with  insufficient 
clothing  or  wrappings,  fold  a  newspaper  and  spread  across  the  chest.  Per- 
sons having  weak  lungs  can  in  this  way  make  for  themselves  a  very  cheap 
and  perfect  lung  protector.  Large  papers  spread  between  quilts  at  night, 
add  much  to  the  warmth. 

Salve. — The  following  is  an  excellent  salve  for  burns,  cuts,  or  sores  of  long 
standing:  Take  equal  parts  of  melted  beeswax,  mutton  suet,  pulverized  resin, 
burnt  alum,  honey,  Venice  of  turpentine,  sweet-oil.  C<X)k  over  a  slow  fire 
all  together.  Stir  till  it  commences  to  thicken;  then  strain  through  a  cloth 
and  pour  in  earthen  boxes. 

Catarrh  Cold. — ^Ten  drops  carbolic  acid,  and  seven  and  a  half  each  of 
iodine  and  chloroform ;  heat  a  few  drops  over  a  spirit  lamp  in  a  test  tube, 
holding  the  mouth  of  the  tube  to  the  nostrils  as  soon  a^  volatization  is  ef- 
fected. Repeat  every  two  minutes,  until  the  patient  sneezes  a  number  of 
times,  when  the  troublesoiup  symptoms  will  disappear. 

Neuralgia. — One- half  drachm  sal-ammonia  in  one  ounce  of  camphor- 
water.  Take  a  tea-spoon  several  times,  five  minu*es  apart,  until  relieved. 
Another  simple  remedy  is  horseradish.  Grate,  and  mix  it  in  vinegar,  the 
same  as  for  table  purposes,  and  apply  to  the  temple  when  the  face  or  head 
is  affected,  or  the  wrist,  when  the  pain  is  in  the  arm  or  shoulder. 

Whooping  Cough. — Mix  one  lemon  sliced,  half  pint  flax-seed,  two  ounces 
honey,  and  one  quart  water,  and  simmer,  not  boil,  four  hours;  strain  when 
cool,  and  if  there  is  less  than  a  pint  of  the  mixture,   ad<^  water.     Dose: 


gives  the  following:  **Once  a  week  invariaWy- 
^enerally  when  we  had  cold  meat  minced — I  gave  the  children  a  dinner  which 
IS  hailed  with  delight,  and  looked  forward  to;  this  is  a  dish  of  boiled  onions. 
The  little  things  knew  that  they  were  taking  the  best  of  medicine  for  expel- 
ling what  most  children  suffer  from — worms.  Mine  were  kept  free  by  this 
remedy  alone.'* 

Fob  Sore  Throat  use  as  a  remedy  one  ounce  of  camphorated  oil  and 
five  cents  worth  of  chlorate  of  potash.  Whenever  anj'  soreness  appears  in 
the  throat,  put  the  potash  in  half  a  tumbler  of  water,  and  with  it  gargle  the 
throat  thoroughly,  then  rub  the  neck  thoroughly  with  the  camphorated  oil 
at  night  before  going  to  bed,  and  also  pin  around  the  throat  a  small  strip  of 
woolen  flannel. 

Eye  Wash. — Sulphate  of  zinc  two  grains,  sulphate  of  mornhine  one-half 
prain,  distilled  water  one  ounce ;  mix,  and  bottle.  Drop  in  tne  eye  (a  drop 
or  two  at  once,)  then  wink  the  eye  several  times,  so  that  the  wash  may  reacn 
all  the  parts;  and  keep  quiet  and  do  not  use  the  eyes  for  about  an  hour. 
This  wash  is  for  blood-shot  eyes,  and  when  used  it  will  produce  quite  a 
smarting  sensation. 

Coxklin's  Salve. — One  pound  of  resin,  two  ounces  mutton  tallow,  one  of 
beeswax,  one-half  gill  alcoholic  spirits,  add  a  little  of  the  gum  of  balsam; 
boil  all  together  slowly,  until  it  has  done  rising  or  foaming,  or  until  it  begins 


MEDICAL.  633 

to  appear  clear.    Pour  the  mixture  into  a  pail  of  cold  water,  and  when  it 

f  others,  take  it  oat,  roll  on  boards  and  cut  it  off.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
urn  it.    Moisten  the  hands  in  brandy  while  working. 

Mustard  Plaster. — Mix  with  boiling  water,  vinegar,  or  white  of  an  egg 
(the  latter  is  best  when  a  blister  is  not  wanted)  to  consistency  the  same  as  if 
for  the  table.  Some  add  a  little  flour  when  not  wanted  so  strong.  Spread 
on  half  a  thin  muslin  cloth,  cover  with  the  other  half,  or  put  on  cloth,  and 
put  over  it  a  thin  piece  of  gauze ;  apply,  and  when  removed,  wash  the  skin 
with  a  soft  sponge,  and  apply  a  little  sweet  cream  or  oil. 

Sprains.— -If  a  sprain  is  nothing  more  than  a  sprain — that  is,  if  no  bonea 
are  broken  or  put  out — wrap  the  part  in  several  folds  of  flannel  which  has 
been  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  and  cover  it  with  a  dry  bandage,  and  rest  it 
for  some  days,  or  even  weeks.  Entire  rest  at  first,  and-  moderate  rest  after- 
ward, are  absolutely  necessary  after  a  sprain.  If  it  is  in  the  ankle,  the  foot 
should  be  raised  as  nigh  as  may  be  comfortable;  if  in  the  wrist,  it  should  be 
carried  in  a  sling. 

French  Remedy  for  Consumption. — One-half  pound  finely  cut  up  fresh 
beefsteak;  one  drachm  pulverized  charcoal;  four  ounces  pulverized  sugar; 
four  ounces  rye  whisky;  one  pint  boiling  water.  Mix  all  together,  let  it 
stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night,  and  give  from  one  to  two  tea-spoons  liquid 
and  meat  before  each  meal.  The  dose  should  be  small  at  first,  until  the 
stomach  becomes  used  to  it,  and  then  gradually  increased.  This  remedy  has 
the  merit  of  simplicity. 

Cough  Mixture.— Dissolve  one-fourth  pound  gum-arabic  in  half-pint  boil- 
ing water,  add  a  half  tea-cup  sugar  and  honey,  and  two  table-spoons  lemon 
juice,  steep  for  five  or  ten  minutes;  bottle  and  cork,  add  water,  and  take; 
or  boil  one  ounce  each  of  licorice-stick  and  anise-seed,  and  half  ounce  senna 
in  one  ouart  of  water,  ten  minutes;  strain,  add  two  tea-cups  molasses  or 
honey,  ooil  down  to  a  pint  and  then  bottle ;  or,  to  one  pint  whisky  add 
one-half  pound  rock  candy  and  two  ounces  glycerine. 

Drunkenness. — There  is  a  prescription  in  use  in  England  for  the  cure  of 
drunkenness,  by  which  thousands  are  said  to  have  been  assisted  in  recovering 
themselves.  It  is  as  follows:  Sulphate  of  iron,  five  grains;  peppermint 
water,  eleven  drachms;  spirit  of  nutmeg,  one  drachm;  twice  a  day.  This 
preparation  acts  as  a  stimulant  and  tonic,  and  partially  supplies  the  place  of 
the  accustomed  liquor,  and  prevents  that  absolute  physical  and  moral  pros- 
tration that  follows  a  sudden  cessation  from  the  use  of  stimulating  dnnks. 

Catarrh. — ^Wet  and  cold  at  the  surface  of  the  body  is  a  cause  of  catarrh, 
but  the  most  fruitful  source  is  wet  and  cold  feet,  and  yet  there  is  nothing 
more  easy  to  avoid.  Warm  socks,  horse-hair  soles,  and  goloshes  will  always 
keep  the  feet  dry  and  warm.  It  does  not  seem  to  be  understood  that  although 
a  boot  or  shoe  may  not  leak,  yet  if  the  sole  is  damp,  it  by  evaporation  con- 
ducts away  the  heat  from  the  foot,  and  ought  never  to  be  worn  when  not 
exercising.  The  neck  should  be  covered  lightly,  but  too  much  covering  pre- 
disposes to  catarrhal  troubles  by  causing  congestion  of  the  membrane  anected 
in  this  disease.  Bed-rooms  ought  to  be  well  aired,  and  warmed  if  possible, 
by  an  open  fire,  in  damp,  chilly  weather. 

Bllsters  for  Diphtheria. — The  method  of  treating  that  form  of  pul- 
monary consumption  which  consists  in  ulceration  in  the  substance  of  the 
lungs,  by  means  of  blisters  on  the  chest,  and  thus  giving  an  artificial  outlet 
to  the  humors  which  otherwise  dischar^  from  the  lungs,  has  been  succes-s- 
fully  applied  to  various  other  diseases  in  which  vital  or^ns  were  attacked. 
Even  various  forms  of  internal  inflammation  may  in  tlus  way  be  drawn  to 
the  exterior,  and  the  latest  auplication  of  this  method  has  been  made  with 
diphtheria.  The  new  method  is  to  blister  the  chest  of  the  patient  suffering 
from  diphtheria,  and  the  ulceration  which  otherwise  takes  place  in  the 
throat,  will  appear  on  the  chest,  while  the  throat  becomes  free. 

Healixg  Salve  for  Wounds. — Pint  olive-oil,  half  ounce  common  resin, 
half  ounce  beeswax ;  melt  well  together,  and  bring  oil  to  boiling  heat ;  add 
40 


I 


634  MEDICAL. 

gradually  of  pulverized  red  lead — three-eighths  of  a  pound  (for  summer 
use  a  tnfle  more  lead);  in  a  short  time  after  it  is  taken  up  by  the  oil,  and 
the  mixture  l)ecome»  brown  or  w  shining  black,  ruinovc  from  the  fire,  and 
when  nearly  cold  add  two  scruples  pulverized  cinnplior.  It  should  remain 
on  the  fire  until  it  attains  a  pro|)er  consistency  for  spreading,  wiiich  may  be 
known  b^^  dipping  a  splint  or  knife  in  the  mixture  from  time  to  time,  and 
allowing  it  to  cool.  When  used  spread  thinly  on  a  piece  of  tissuc-|>aper  or 
old,  fine  linen.     Excellent  for  frost  sores  or  any  kind  that  are  hard  to  heal. 

How  TO  Distinguish  Rashbs. — Measles  appear  as  a  number  oi  dull  red 
spots,  in  many  places  running  into  each  other,  and  is  usually  first  seen 
aoout  the  face  and  on  the  forehead,  near  the  roots  of  the  hair,  and  is  often 
precedod  by  running  of  the  eyes  and  nose,  and  all  the  signs  of  severe  cold. 
Scarlet  fever  appears  first  about  the  neck  and  chest,  but  not  unfrequeiitly  at 
the  bend  of  the  elbow  or  under  the  knee,  and  is  usually  preceded  by  sore 
throat.  It  can  be  distinguished  from  roseola — a  mild  disease,  which  is  some- 
times mistaken  for  it — by  the  bright  red  color  of  the  skin,  which  appears 
not  unlike  a  boiled  lobster.  In  chicken-pox  the  symptom  is  attenaw  by 
fever,  the  spots  are  smaH,  separate  pimples,  and  come  generally  over  the 
whole  body. 

CuBKB  Brrries  for  Catarrh. — A  new  remedv  for  catarrh  is  crushed  cubeb 
berries  smoked  in  a  pipe,  emitting  the  smoke  through  the  nose;  after  a  few 
trials  this  will  be  easy  to  do.  If  the  nose  is  stopped  up  so  that  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  breathe,  one  pipeful  will  make  the  head  as  clear  as  a  bell. 
For  sore  throat,  asthma,  and  bronchitis,  swallowing  the  smoke  effects  imme- 
diate relief.  It  is  the  best  remedy  in  the  world  for  offensive  breath,  and  will 
make  the  most  foul  breath  pure  and  sweet.  Sufferers  from  that  horrid  dis- 
ease, ulcerated  catarrh,  will  find  this  remedy  unequaled,  and  a  month's  use 
will  cure  the  most  obstinate  case.  A  single  trial  will  convince  any  one. 
Eating  the  uncrushed  berries  is  also  good  for  sore  throat  and  all  bronchial 
complaints.  After  smoking,  do  not  expose  yourself  to  cold  air  for  at  least 
fifteen  minutes. 

Sure  Cure  for  Croup. — Boil  pigs'  feet  in  water,  without  salt,  and  let  it 
stand  over  night ;  in  the  morning  skim  off  the  fat  (which  will  be  formed  in 
a  cake  on  top),  put  in  a  tin  pan,  boil  until  all  water  is  evaporated;  bottle, 
and  keep  for  use.     Give  a  tea-spoon  every  fifteen  minutes  on  the  appearance 


of  the  first  symptoms,  and  apply  freely  to  chest  and  throat,  rubbing  well. 

tliat  a  child  can  not  have  the  croup  if  pi 
oil  is  administered  at  the  first  symptoms.     Or,  warm  a  tea-spoon  w^ith  a  little 


A  celebrated  physician  says  tliat  a  child  can  not  have  the  croup  if  pigs'  feet 


lard  in  it  or  goose  grease;  thicken  with  sugar,  and  give  it  to  the  child;  it 
may  produce  vomiting,  which  is  always  desirable,  thus  breaking  up  the 
membrane  that  is  forming.  Apply  lard' or  goose  grease  to  throat  and  chest, 
with  raw  cotton  or  flannel.  Care'  should  be  taken,  removing  only  a  small 
piece  at  a  time  of  these  extra  wraps  to  prevent  taking  cold. 

For  Rheu.matism. ^Internal  remedy.) — Three  drams  iodide  of  potash,  dis- 
solved in  one-half  pint  of  hot  water.  Take  a  table-spoonful  three  times  a 
day,  and  drink  lemonade  at  intervals  between. 

(External  remedy. >  Liniment — ^Two  ounces  tincture  arnica,  one  ounce 
canii)hor,  one  ounce  belladonna,  one  ounce  cannabis  indica,  one-half  onnce 
aconite  (if  neuralgia),  one-half  oiince  oil  hemlock,  one-half  ounce  worm- 
wood, one-half  ounce  sassafras  (if  there  are  humors),  one-fourth  ounce  or- 
iganum, one-fourth  ounce  tar  (if  there  are  sores),  one-fourth  ounce  cajeput, 
one-eighth  ounce  peppermint,  one^fourth  ounce  chloroform,  six  ounces  aqua 
ammonia.  Wet  a  flannel  with  this  liniment,  and  rub  the  parts  affected ;  or 
place  the  flannel  over  the  rheumatic  part,  and  cover  it  with  thick  paper,  and 
place  near  it  a  warm  brick.     Immediate  relief  will  be  obtained. 

Cure  for  Felon. — When  a  felon  first  makes  its  appearancej  take  the  inside 
skin  of  an  egg-shell,  and  wrap  it  around  the  part  affected.  When  the  press- 
ure becomes  too  painful,  wet  it  with  water,  and  keep  it  on  twelve  hours. 

Roast  or  bake  /lioroughly  a  large  onion ;  mix  the  soft  inner  pulp  with  twc 


MEDICAL.  635 

heaping  table-spoons  of  table  salt,  and  apply  the  mixture  to  the  affected 
part  as  a  poultice,  keeping  the  parts  well  covered.  Make  fresh  applications 
at  least  twice  a  day,  morning  and  evening,  and  a  cure  will  follow  m  at  least 
a  week. 

Or,  one 'tea-spoon  of  scorched  salt,  one  tea-spoon  of  corn  meal,  one  tea- 
spoon of  scraped  hard  soap,  one  tea-spoon  of  beet  leaves  pounded  up,  twelve 
drops  of  turpentine,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg.  Mix  all  ingredients  toge^he^ 
in  tne  form  of  a  poultice,  in  which  bind  closely  the  swollen  finger. 

Or,  procure  five  or  six  lemons,  cut  oflf  the  end  of  one,  thrust  the  sore  finger 
Into  the  lemon,  and  let  it  stay  till  the  lemoh  is  warm ;  proceed  in  the  same 
way  till  all  the  six  are  used.  Or,  put  a  piece  of  Spanish-fly  plaster  over  tluj 
spot  affected,  and  that  will  draw  tne  trouble  to  the  surface ;  or,  on  the  first 
appearance,  apply  a  poultice  of  the  common  Fleur  de  Lis  root  well  mashed. 
It  will  cure  in  a  short  time. 

For  Constipation. — ^The  same  remedies  will  not  affect  all  persons.  One 
or  two  figs  eaten  fasting  is  sufficient  for  some,  and  they  are  especially  good 
in  the  case  of  children,  as  there  is  no  trouble  in  getting  them  to  take  them. 
A  spoon  of  wheaten  bran  in  a  glass  of  water  is  a  simple  remedy  and  quite 
effective.  One  or  two  tumblers  of  hot  water  will  move  almost  every  one^ 
but  is  difficult  to  take.  In  chronic  cases^t  faithful  manipulation  and  mov- 
ing of  bowels  and  limbs  with  gentle  rotary  movement  with  the  open  palm, 
*nd  giving  all  natural  motions  to  the  parts,  with  proper  diet,  will  almost 
invariably  secure  the  desired  result.  It  has  been  Known  to  cure  a  case  of 
life-long  habit,  where  inherited,  too,  and  although  it  involves  patience  and 
perseverance,  it  is  certainly  better  than  to  suffer  the  ills  that  result  from  so 
many  patent  medicines  and  ouack  nostrums.  "  An  ounce  of  prevention  is 
worth  a  pound  of  cure,"  ana  regularity  of  habit  in  this  matter  is  the  great 
thing  to  oe  impressed  on  people  generally. 

Or,  three  tea-cups  each  of  coarse,  clean  wheat-bran  and  sifted  flour,  one 
heaping  measure  each  of  Horsford*s  bread  preparation  (soda  and  acid),  seven 
teaspoons  good  butter  and  one  of  salt.  Mix  with  cold  sweet  milk;  roll 
third  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  tlioroughly  in  a 
moderate  oven  ;  or,  pour  hot  water  on  one  table-spoon  flax  seed,  pour  off  and 
at  once  add  three  or  four  table-spoons  of  cold  water,  and  drink.  This  is  per- 
fectly harmless  and  may  be  taken  once,  twice,  or  thrice  a  day  if  necessary ; 
or,  a  teasiwon  black  mustard-seed  taken  every  morning ;  or  a  glass  of  cold 
water  taken  at  night  and  first  thing  in  the  morning. 

Scarlet  Fever,  or  Scarlatina.— When  to  the  feeling  of  general  illness 
which  accompanies  all  fevers  is  added  a  very  rapid  pulse,  120-130,  and  a  tem- 
perature of  100®-104°-105°,  and  there  is  a  dry,  hot  feeling  in  the  throat,  with 
tonsils  red  and  swollen,  and  distress  on  trj^ng  to  swallow,  it  is  jwife  to  suspect 
an  infectious  disease,  and  probably  scarlet  fever.  The  sick  person  shoulu  be 
isolated  at  once  in  a  room  as  much  apart  from  the  other  members  as  possible, 
the  higher  up  in  the  house  the  better,  and  a  good"  physician  sent  for. 

The  rash  generally  appears  about  the  second  dav,  beginning  on  the  neck 
and  chest,  and  extending  over  the  whole  bodv,  the  deepest  color  being  on  the 
neck,  the  outer  side  of  the  limbs,  the  joints,  hands  ana  feet.  The  cheeks  are 
a  bright,  deep  red.  The  case  having  been  declared  to  be  scarlet  fever,  all  pre- 
cautions given  for  infectious  diseases,  as  regards  isolation  and  disinfection, 
must  be  observed. 

The  room  should  be  kept  at  an  even  temperature  of  65°;  light  a  fire,  if 
possible,  and  leave  the  window  down  an  inch  at  the  top.  Throw  the  window 
open  and  change  the  air  entirely  twice  a  day,  covering  the  patient  head  and 
all  at  the  time  and  until  the  room  is  again  warm.  Do  not  be  afraid  uf  fresh, 
dry  outside  air,  but  be  sure  that  the  patient  is  covered  head  and  all,  so  tliat 
no  cold  air  is  breathed,  while  you  are  airing  and  warming  the  room. 

Give  the  patient  once  or  twice  daily,  a  warm  sponge  or  plunge  bath,  as 
directed  by  the  physician,  being  careful  that  he  is  covered  with  a  blanket 
during  the  bathnig,  thrown  over  the  bed  or  tub;  dry  quickly  with  wario. 


^36  MEDICAL, 

soft  towels,  and  as  the  patient  lies  in  ]>e(l,  rub  the  entire  surface  of  the  bodv 
with  vaseline,  cocoa-oil,  or  whatever  oil  the  pliysician  orders.  The  beet- 
clothing  should  be  wanu,  but  never  heavy;  keep  the  feet  and  legs  warm. 

Gruels,  milk,  simple  broth,  etc.,  are  generally  enough.  When  there  is 
exhaustion  from  fever,  the  d(x;tor  will  give  ordei^  as  to  stimulating  nourish-! 
ment.  Cold  wuter  or  weak  lemonade  may  be  given  freely,  imless  the  doctor 
orders  differently. 

Keep  the  patient  strictly  in  bed;  make  use  of  the  bed-pan  and  urinal  to 
prevent  getting  up.  Guard  in  every  way  a  check  of  perspiration.  If  the 
patient  is  propped  up  in  bed,  see  that  a  sliort  jacket  or  small  i^hawl  is  put 
over  the  niglit-aress,  but  use  nothing  that  can  not  be  washed. 

Notice  the  breathing  at  night  or  in  sleep,  whether  it  is  even  and  deep,  or 
short  and  labored,  as  if  there  were  trouble  with  the  air-passages.  Be  jxir- 
ticularly  watchful  of  the  condition  of  the  excretions,  especially  of  the  urine; 
should  rt  become  scanty  or  smoky -colored,  report  it  at  once  to  the  physician. 
Observe  whether  there  is  a  free  though  seemingly  harmless  discharge  from 
the  nose;  this  may  indicate  diphtheritic  trouble.  See  whether  there  is  any 
swelling  of  limbs.  In  short,  there  is  nothing  which  must  not  be  observed 
with  care,  and  reported  accurately  to  the  doctor. 

The  skin  becomes  dry,  and  generally  begins  to  scale  off  about  the  fith  day 
after  the  rash  appears.  No  patient  should  be  allowed  to  leave  his  bed  until 
this  process  is  completed.  The  warm  baths  should  be  kept  up,  the  least  chilli- 
ness guanled  against,  and  the  temperature  of  the  room  allowed  now  to  be  70^. 
After  the  peeling  is  over  the  patient  should  still  remain  in  his  r<x)m  for  two 
weeks,  and  should  be  separate  from  otiier  members  of  the  family  not  less 
than  a  month  from  the  commencement  of  the  disease.  Severe  cases  of  scarlet 
fever  may  follow  from  exposure  to  light  ones.  See  that  the  patient  is  well 
wrapped,  with  hands  and  feet  protecteid,  on  first  going  into  the  open  air. 

The  troubles  wliich  may  arise  out  of  an  attack  are  frequently  the  result 
of  carelessness  on  the  part  of  the  nurse,  neglect  of  orders,  exposure  to  cold, 
etc.  There  can  not  be  tf30  much  care  taken  of  the  lightest  case.  A  bad 
attack  will  compel  attention,  but  "  slight  cases,"  so-called,  are  often  neglected 
with  fatal  results,  or  life-long  deafness  or  other  disability.  Dropsy,  malignant 
8ore  throat,  disease  of  the  kidneys,  weakness  of  the  lungs,  pleurisy,  and 
manv  otlier  maladies,  lie  in  wait  for  the  scarlet  fever  patient. — Hand-Book 
of  I^arsiiig. 

The  Treatment  of  Diphtheria.— Tiie  symptoms  of  diphtheria  are  much 
like  a  common  sore  throat  accompanied  by  a  severe  cold.  The  sore  throat  is 
accoiupanied  with  more  fever  than  an  ordinary  cold,  and  there  is  an  in- 
describable sickish  feeling,  which  is  easily  recognized  by  those  who  have 
once  experienced  it.  Later,  white  patches  appear  in  the  throat,  on  the  ton- 
sils, the  back  of  the  throat,  and  on  the  arches  of  the  palate.  The  throat  is 
generally  but  little  swollen  on  the  outside,  but  in  all  cases  when  there  is 
a  suspicion  of  diplitheria,  it  is  not  safe  to  delay  sending  for  a  physician,  a$  the 
disease  does  its  work  quickly,  and  miist  be  dealt  with  in  time  or  it  is  fatal.  There 
are  really  three  varieties  of  the  disease.  The  first  is  characterized  by  fever, 
severe  pains  in  back  and  limbs,  and  very  great  prostration.  There  niay  be 
wo  soreness  of  the  throat,  but  small  white  specks  will  be  noticed  on  the  ton- 
sils. In  the  second,  large  patches  of  false  membrane  appear  on  the  tonsils 
and  back  of  the  tiiroat ;  but  the  glands  of  the  neck  do  not  become  swollen. 
In  the  third,  wliich  is  the  true  malignant  diphtheria,  there  is  swelling  of  thn 
glands  of  the  neck  and  under  jaw,  profuse  and  offefisive  discharges  from  the 
mouth  and  throat,  and  more  or  less  discharge  from  the  nostrils.  In  the  first 
two  varieties,  the  disease  generally  yields  to  simple  treatment,  hut  the  disease 
is  too  subtle  and  dangerous  to  be  trijled  withy  ana  a  physician  should  be  sum- 
vioned.  One  of  the  best  remedies  for  domestic  use  in  the  early  stages  of  the 
disease,  is,  probably,  chlorate  of  patash,  put  into  a  tumbler  of  water  until 
no  more  will  dissolve,  and  used  as  a  gargle.  If  swallowed  it  is  harmless.  It 
is  cheap— five  to  ten  cents  worth  being  sufficient  for  almost  any  case,  and  It 


MEDICAL.  637 

nuiy  be  k6pt  in  the  house  for  emergencies.  It  is  also  an  excellent  remedy, 
used  as  above  described,  for  ordinary  sore  throat  In  the  case  of  children  too 
young  to  use  the  gargle,  make  a  swab  on  the  end  of  a  firm  round  stick,  by 
binding  on  a  small  piece  of  linen  or  cotton  cloth ;  use  only  once  and  burn  it, 
X.  e.y  the  rag.  Take  the  handle  of  a  teaspoon  and  press  the  tongue  down  so 
as  to  see  plainly  the  condition  of  the  throat;  swao  quickly  and  draw  out. 
Do  not  worry  the  child  by  poking  the  stick  down  iti*  throat  a  half  dozen 
times,  make  a  sure  thing  the  first  time,  for  if  you  touch  the  affected  parts, 
well;  better  do  it  again  in  two  hours.  Dip  swab  in  a  preparation  (which 
may  also  be  used  a^  a  gargle)  of  alcohol,  diluted  with  water,  biU  as  strong  as 
the  patient  can  bear.  The  alcohol  acts  quickly  upon  the  poison  of  the  disease, 
end  is  a  remedy  easily  obtained  and  kept  at  hand.  When  atfjicked  with 
diphtheria,  the  patient  should  be  kept  in  bed  with  suflflcient  clothing  over 
the  body  for  comfort,  and  no  more.  The  room  should  be  kept  well  supplied 
with  pure  air,  and  nourishment  should  he  given  in  the  shape  of  well-pre- 
pared beef-tea  every  two  hours.  Cut  fresh  beef  into  pieces,  put  into  a  bottle 
without  water,  and  boil  in  a  pot  of  water.  To  an  adult  give  a  great  spoonful 
of  the  beef-tea  tlius  made,  every  two  hours,  and  less  in  proportion  to  age. 
If  this  does  not  agree  with  the  patient,  or  there  is  any  difficuly  in  the 
patient's  sw^allowing  it,  substitute  the  white  of  an  egg;  beat  till  smooth,  mix 
with  half  a  tumbler  of  water,  and  give  a  table-spoon  at  a  time.  This  is  very 
nourishing,  and  is  often  taken  more  readily  than  beef-tea.  It  is  particularly 
important  to  nourish  Vie  patient  with  proper  supplies  of  J'ood  in  the^arly  stages 
of  the  disease,  as  there  is  danger  that  the  supply  of  vitalized  blood  will  not 
be  sufficient  to  meet  the  demand  made  by  the  disease. 

•  The  homeopathic  treatment  is  to  begiryat  once  with  aconite  and  belladonna, 
alternately  every  hour.  If  after  four  hours  there  is  no  improvement,  and 
the  characteristic  prostration,  and  the  patches  on  the  tonsils  are  increasing, 
stop  the  aconite,  and  supply  its  place  with  the  proto-iodide  of  niercurius. 
Let  these  two  remedies  be  continued  until  there  is  a  marked  change  for 
better  or  worse.  If  for  the  former,  let  the  intervals  be  increased  to  one  and 
a  half  or  two  hours;  for  the  latter,  and  there  is  approaching  unconscious- 
ness, with  frequent  arousing  to  cough  up  or  hawk  uj)  the  detached  fragments 
of  the  deposits,  that  brings  up  tough,  ropy,  yellowish  mucus,  give  kali  bi- 
chromicum  alone  every  hour.  When  the  patient  becomes  really  better,  stop 
and  give  no  more  medicine  while  the  improvement  goes  on  satisfactorily. 

One  reason  why  it  is  important  to  summon  a  physician  as  soon  as  the 
Bvraptoms  of  the'  disease  appear,  is  that  many  cases  which  appear  slight^  at 
first,  are  really  most  serious  and  fataly.  while  a  common  sore  throat  excites  the 
greatest  alarm,  the  judgment  of  the  physician  being  necessary  to  decide  the 
amount  of  danger  in  the  case. 

In  some  cases  dry  sulphur,  applied  to  the  tonsils  and  throat,  gives  relief, 
and  in  violent  cases  the  fumes  of  sulphur,  burned  in  the  close  room,  have 
been  used  witli  good  effect.  An  outward  application  to  the  throat,  of  lard 
as  hot  as  it  can  be  b<irno,  is  an  aid  to  the  other  remedies  mentioned. 

To  avmd  all  cansei  of  diphtheria^  keep  (he  house  free  from  dirt  and  filth  of 
every  kind  from  cellar  to  garret.  See  tnat  no  sewers  give  off  gases,  no  drains 
are  left  filthy,  and  no  out-house  uncleaned,  and  bear  in  mind  that  it  is  not 
enougli  to  destroy  bad  smells  by  disinfectants— the  cause  of  the  smells  must 
be  removed. 

A  lady  who  had  the  courage  and  coolness  to  treat  herself,  through  a  severe 
case  of  diphtheria,  when  no  physician  was  at  hand,  describes  her  case  thus: 
*'  I  first  noticed  siwres  (the  characteristic  white  patches  which  appear  on  the 
throat)  on  my  right  tonsil  at  9  a.  m.  By  noon  they  had  spread  over  the  entire 
arch  of  the  palate,  and  the  back  of  the  throat.  Several  or  these  were  loosened 
before  night,  but  during  the  night  they  had  spread  up  the  nose  and  down  the 
bronchial  tube.  My  palate  and  tonsils  were  so  swollen  that  I  could  scarcely 
speak,  and  with  difficulty  swallow.  The  gland  on  the  right  side  of  neck  was 
much  swollen,  and  uched,  cuusing  a  dull  pain  in  the  car.    The  breath  had 

41 


^38  MEDICAL. 

m 

that  offensive  odor  peculiar  to  tlie  disease,  and  I  had  an  intense^  burning 
fever.    I  began  my  remedies  <u  sotm  <u  I  dUcoaered  the  n)oref.    I  took  a  clay  pipe, 
fille<l  the  bowl  one-eighth  full  uf  dry  sulphur,  powoered  very  fine,  and  sfiook 
it  down  into  the  stem.     I  then  placed  the  end  of  tlie  stem  in  my  throat,  and 
held  it  there  in  front  of  the  spores,  while  an  attendant  blew  in'to  the  bowl, 
atid  repeated  this  until  the  whole  discftned  surface  of  tfie  throat  ^vas  covered  with  dry 
3ul;>hur.  taking  care  to  hold  my  breath  while  the  sulphur  was  being  blown 
in.    In  half  an  hour  this  was  repeated.     I  tlien  made  a  strong  gai^gle  of  chlo- 
rate of  potash,  and  half  an  hour  after  using  the  last  sulphur,  gargled  my 
throat  thoroughly.     I  then  alternated  the  sulphur  with  the  gargle  of  dilorata 
^  of  potash  every  liour.    At  niglit  I  mixed  a  tea-spoon  of  sulphur  with  water, 
and  swallowed  it  slowly,  and  continued  taking  it  in  tliis  way  three  times  a 
day.     Blowing  sulnhur  into  the  throat,  and  gargling  with  chlorate  of  potash 
was  kept  up  regularly  for  four  days,  until  every  spore  had  disappeared,  ex< 
actly  as  at  first,  except  making  the  intervals  longer  as  the  disease  abated. 
Whenever  I  felt  them  getting  oown  the  bronchial  tube,  I  drew  breatli  gentJy 
when  the  sulphur  was  being  blown  into  my  tliroat.     It  almost  choked  me  to 
death,  but  I  persevered.     For  my  nose  I  snuffed  up  sulphur,  just  as  old 
ladies  take  snuff,  until  satisfied  that  everv  part  was  reached.    When  the 
spores  came  off  I  watched  for  new  ones,  and  aid  not  relax  my  attention  for 
one  moment  for  five  days.    When  better,  I  made  a  gargle  of  honey,  sage  and 
water,  to  heal  and  remove  the  swelUiv;  in  the  throat    I  afterward  treated 
xuy  husbai^  successfully  Cor  the  same  disease,  in  the  same  way." 

Diphtheria  is  a  disease  which  springs  from  the  growth  of  a  real  fungus  on 
some  of  the  mucous  surfaces  of  tne  system,  more  generally  of  the  throat  It 
may  spread  by  contact  of  the  mucous  surfaces  of  a  diseased  with  those  of  a 
healthy  person,  as  in  kissing,  and  is,  to  a  limited  degree,  epidemic 

From  the  local  parts  affected  it  si)reads  to  the  whole  body,  affecting  the 
muscular  and  nervous  systems,  vitiating  the  lymph  and  nutrient  fluids,  and 
producing  paralysis. 

As  soon  as  the  bacterium  or  fungus  appears  on  the  white  patches  on  the 
throat,  it  should  no  more  be  neglected  than  a  bleeding  gash  or  a  broken  amL 
and  there  is  almost  as  little  need  of  a  fatal  termination  of  one  incident  as  or 
the  other. 

Mother  Kroh*8  Felon  Salve. — Take  two  pounds  of  fat  from  the  outside 
of  ham  or  smoked  meat,  six  onions,  resin  and  beeswax,  each  the  size  of  an 
egg  (use  tlie  common  dark  resin  and  wax,  and  for  summer  use  increase  the 
proportion  of  both).  Fry  ham  fat  until  partly  done,  add  onions  sliced,  tij 
to  a  light  brown,  skim  out  onions,  press  through  a  colander,  and  add  this  to 
lard  in  skillet;  add  resiu  and  wax,  heat' and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved, 
and  pour  into  a  pan  to  cool.  Like  all  salves,  it  must  be  kept  closely  covered 
or  it  will  lose  its  strength,  but  if  well  covered  will  keep  a  year.  A  mother 
writes,  "I  never  feel  safe  without  a  supply  of  it  in  the  house,  and  have 
found  that  my  children  seldom  need  any  other  medicine.  I  use  it  in  croup, 
whooping  cough,  diphtheria,  colds,  scarlet  fever,  lung  fever,  asthma,  felons, 
boils,  beaiiugs  of  all  kinds,  burns,  and  sore  and  inflamed  breasts.  For  the 
first  seven,  it  is  spread  on  a  fine  ])iece  of  Canton  flannel  and  placed  over  the 
entire  chest,  and  in  severe  Ciises  over  the  back  also,  joining  them  on  the 
.shoulders  and  under  tiie  arms.  It  should  be  put  on  thick  and  covered  with 
flannel  or  cotton  batting.  Keep  on  until  it  gives  relief,  or  if  it  becomes 
uncomfortable  or  rough,  remove,  and  apply  a  fresh  poultice  if  necessary. 
It  is  cooling  in  its  nature  and  very  quieting.  For  bums  and  healing  It 
sliould  be  used  in  the  form  of  a  poultice,  also  Tor  sore  throat.  My  physicians 
have  always  encouraged  its  use  for  the  above  complaints.  For  breasts,  cut  a 
piece  of  cloth  round  with  a  hole  in  the  center  for  the  infant,  then  cover  the 
breast  entirely  over  with  the  cloth  on  which  the  salve  has  been  spread. 


MEDICAL.  639 

Allopathic  Trkatmxnt  of  Diphtheria. — One  of  the  most  successful  phy- 
•icians  in  treating  this  dreaded  disease  gives  the  following  directions  for 
dealing  with  it.     Mothers  should  accustom  themselves  and  their  children 

when  young  to  examine  the  throat  for  indications  of  diph- 

^^  theria,  and  for  this  purjKwe  a  **  tongue  depresser,"  repre- 

/1^'^\^  sen  ted   in  aoconipanvinpj  cut   is  much  more  convenient 

nf     ^^k  than  a  sjkmju,  especially  in  the  case  of  babies  who  are  apt  to 

/ft  ^^^  resist  having  any  thing  thrust  into  their  mouths.  With 
mi  ^^L      this  the  tongue  is  easily  drawn  down,  and  does  not  slip 

%r  ^^    from  under  it  as  it  does  from  a  sj^oon.     It  may  be  had 

^  from  any  druggist  or  dealer  in  surgical  implements.  The 
first  yellowish  white  patches  that  indicate  diphtheria  ap- 
bear  on  the  tonsils  on  either  side  of  palate,  and  mean  danger  and  demand 
tTMnediaU  and  unremitted  attention.  If  toithin  reajch  tend  for  a  physician. 
The  attack  is  almost  as  varied  as  is  the  temperament  and  constitution 
of  the  patient.  Sometimes  a  slight  feeling  of  illness  is  prevalent  for  a 
few  days  before  the  most  serious  attack.  During  this  period  drowsiness 
and  chilliness  appear,  followed  by  fevcrishness,  sometimes  headache  and 
aching  of  tlie  limos;  at  other  times  the  attack  comes  on  with  a  sudden 
faintness  or  an  almost  absolute  prostration ;  while  an  almost  universal  symp- 
tom, and  a  very  characteristic  one,  is  a  slightly  swollen  and  tender  condition 
of  the  glands  at  the  angle  of  the  lower  jaw.  The  tonsils,  one  or  both,  are  red 
and  swollen;  sometimes  they  are  swollen  but  are  not  red.  In  younger  chil- 
dren an  almost  unmistakable  sign,  which  is  very  general,  is  that  "the  redness  is 
of  a  rose  color,  while  in  older  children  or  adults  the  color  is  a  deep  crimson 
or  bright  scarlet,  over  the  whole  throat  as  seen  by  opening  the  mouth,  the 
throat  being  attacked  with  inflammation  so  that  it  snows  it.  These  symp- 
toms may  be  more  or  less  general,  or  to  a  great  extent  mixed  or  varfable, 
according  to  the  physical  condition  and  temperament  of  the  patient.  After 
the  appearance  of  this  peculiar  redness  there  is  more  or  less  swelling  of  the 
tonsils,  at  which  time  the  false  membrane  first  forms,  and  is  semi-trans- 
^larent.  It  can  readily  be  seen  by  careful  observation.  As  the  disease  wears 
on.  this  membrane,  which  is  at  first  visible  and  semi-transparent,  changes  its 
color  and  becomes  partially  opaque,  finally  becomes  thick,  dark,  and  if  blood 
is  drawn  into  it  turns  almost  black.  When  the  change  from  a  darkened 
Opaque  membrane  commences  to  turn  black  it  is  one  of  the  first  symptoms 
of  a  putrid  stage  of  the  disease,  and  when  this  change  takes  place  tliere  is 
little  or  no  help  and  decomposition  en.sues.  At  this  sta^e  even  all  hope 
must  not  be  abandoned,  because  sometimes  bloo<iy  matter  is  vomited,  which 
to  a  great  extent  influences  the  color  of  the  membrane.  According  to  the 
strength  of  the  patient  this  membrane  is  sooner  or  later  thrown  on.  This 
exfoliation  or  peeling  off"  of  the  membrane  sometimes  takes  place  in  every 
fortj'-eight  to  seventy-two  hours,  or  about  three  days.  At  other  times  the 
progress  of  the  disease  is  impeded  by  proper  treatment.  The  life  of  the 
membrane  is  lengthy,  and  it  may  be  from  five  to  fifteen,  and  it  has  been 
known  not  to  peel  off  under  twenty  days.  Sometimes  the  membrane  peels 
off  in  a  few  hours,  forms  again,  each  time  going  deeper  into  the  tissues.  In 
mild  cases  the  disease  shows  itself  in  the  fauces  alone.  Whatever  may  be 
the  cause  of  diphtheria,  most  medical  men  agree  ui)on  an  important  point: 
That  it  conies  from  a  poison  in  the  blood  ;  and  that  thorough  cleanliness  will 
not  propagate  it — we  don't  mean  in  the  u.««e  of  soap  or  water — but  of  proper 
diet,  so  that  the  stomach  as  well  as  the  gkin  of  the  body  shall  be  clean. 

The  time  to  begin  fighting  this  disease  is  as  soon  as  its  nature  is  recog- 
nized. When  the  patches  of  false  membrane  first  make  their  appearance  on 
the  tonsils,  give  as  a  cathartic,  to  a  child  of  one  year,  a  tea-spoon  of  Epsom 
salts;  for  five  or  .six  years  old,  double  above  quantity.     Next,  mix  thoroughly 

One  dram  chlorate  of  potash, 

One  and  a  half  ounces  of  lime  water,  and  • 

One  ounce  of  distilled  water,  and  rub  in  a  mortar  until  the  chlorate  of 


640  MEDICAL. 

potash  is  perfectly  dissolved ;  then  add  half  an  ounce  j^nre  glycerine.  Give 
to  a  child  one  vear  old  one  tea-spoonful  every  hour  m  a  little  sweetened 
water.  For  a  cnild  live  or  six  years  old,  or  an  adult,  use  two  and  a  half 
ounces  of  liiuc  water,  and  omit  the  distilled  water,  and  give  as  a  dose  a  tea- 
spoonful  and  a  half  for  the  child  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  for  an  adult.  Do 
not  wait  for  the  cathartic  to  act  before  beginning  with  this  remedy,  but 
when  it  acts  give  the  following  every  hour,  also  alternating  with  the  above 
(with  intervals  of  half  un  hour  between  doses  of  one  or  the  other): 

One  dram  chloride  ferri  (iron). 

One  and  a  half  ounces  distilled  water, 

One  and  a  half  ounces  pure  glycerine. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  give  in  sweetened  water,  and  give  as  a  dose  the  same 
onantity  as  of  the  first  prescription,  keeping  up  the  treatment  for  two  days. 
During  the  night,  if  the  case  is  severe,  the  patient  should  be  wakened  to 
administer  the  medicine,  particularly  if  the  sleep  is  at  all  restless  or  un- 
natural. 

For  the  first  two  days  the  disease  may  show  no  signs  of  abatement,  but 
under  this  treatment,  at  the  end  of  thirtjr-six  hours,  ttiere  ought  to  be  ini« 
provemenL  The  tendency  of  the  fever  is  to  return  on  the  third  day,  and 
if  the  disease  is  not  checked  and  the  fever  returns,  it  will  be  a  fight  for 
life,  but  if  at  the  end  of  thirty -six  hours  there  is  evident  improvement, 
give  the  medicines  everv  two  hours  (alternately  giving  one  or  the  other 
every  hour)  for  several  aays.  For  a  child  old  enough  to  use  it,  or  for  an 
adult,  gargle  well,  before  taking  medicine  or  nourishment,  with  the  follow- 
ing, well  mixed: 

Fifteen  drops  carbolic  acid. 

Six  ounces  lime  water. 

These  remedies  m^y  be  made  up,  corked  securely,  and  kept  in  a  dark 
place,  ready  for  use,  in  cases  where  a  family  lives  remote  from  a  drug 
store,  as  time  is  an  important  element  in  treating  this  disease.  For  an  out- 
ward application  apply  a  mixture  made  of 

A  tablespoonful  of  camphor, 

A  half  spoonful  of  turpentine, 

A  half  spoonful  of  coal-oil. 

(For  a  child  add  a  tablespoon  of  sweet-oil.) 

Apply  this  to  the  throat,  high  up  under  the  ears  and  down  to  the  chest; 
cover  with  dry  liannels  for  a  few  minutes;  remove,  and  if  not  red,  apply 
mixture  again,  and  repeat  until  the  skin  is  well  reddened.  Then  apply 
slices  of  fat  salt  pork  (sewed  on  a  piece  of  cloth),  letting  them  cover  well  the 
front  part  of  neck  and  extend  up  under  the  ears.  The  glycerine  arresti 
putrefaction,  while  the  lime-water  dissolves  the  false  membrane. 

Hot  Wateb  as  Medicine. — Consumptives  and  dyspeptics  find  great  relief 
in  drinking,  or  rather  slowly  sipping,  hot  water  an  nour  before  eating.  It 
should  be  as  tiot  as  it  can  be  taken.  Sips  of  hot  water  are  also  good  where 
the  stomach  is  weak,  as  in  convalescence  after  illness.  In  a  severe  case  of 
dyspe()sia.  the  patient  began  by  taking  six  teaspoons  of  hot  water  thres 
tiiiie»  a  day,  and  has  graduallv  increased  the  amount  with  the  greatest 
henetit.  Hot  water  is  also  excellent  in  cases  of  sick  stomach,  and  may  be 
taken  when  no  nourishment  of  any  kind  can  be  retained  in  the  stomach. 

M  L'LLEiN  FOR  CONSUMPTION. — ^Thc  leaves  and  flowers  of  the  common  mul- 
lein have  cured  consumption.  Make  a  strong  tea  of  the  fresh  or  dried 
leaves  (best  when  gathered  from  plants  in  blossom)  and  drink  freely.  Con- 
tinue from  three  to  six  months,  according  to  the  severity  of  the  disease. 
This  remedy  is  "good  for  the  blood"  also,  building  up  the  system,  making 
good  blood,  and  taking  away  the  inflammation  from  the  lungs. 

Fob  a  Cough. — Simmer  together  one  ounce  pressed  mullein  and  one-half 
ounce  hoarh^nd  in  a  quart  soft  water  till  strength  is  extracted  (add  more 
water  if  necessary);  strain  and  add  one  pint  Orleans  molasses.  Dose— one 
tablespoonful  three  times  a  day. 


MEDICAL,  641 

Soft  Wateb  axd  Cholb.ra.— A  disUnguished  physician  gives  it  as  his 
opinion  that  the  hahitual  use  of  pure  soft  water,  or  from  wells  in  a  locality 
where  the  rocks  are  freestone,  will  prevent  the  cholera.  He  states  that 
cholera  has  always  prevailed  in  a  limestone  region,  among  families  using 
hard  water,  while  those  using  soft  water  in  same  neighborhoods  escaped, 
and  tliose  living  in  freestone  regions  only  a  few  miles  away  were  also  ex- 
empt from  attacks.  Soft  water  from  cisterns  should  be  filtered  before 
using. 

Cloveb  Tea. — Gather  the  blossoms  of  red  clover,  when  beginning  to 
bloom,  and  dry  for  u-se,  putting  away  in  tight  paper  sacks.  A  tea  made 
from  these  blossoms  is  excellent  for  "hives,"'  cancer,  or  any^  disease  of  a 
scrofulous  nature.  The  essence  of  clover  is  sometimes  used  instead  of  the 
tea,  and  is  kept  at  drug  stores.  It  is  also  good  for  sickness  at  the  stomach. 
The  tea  may  be  made  of  the  fresh  blossoms  also.  For  cancer  the  tea  is 
^ven  in  large  quantities,  some  patients  drinking  a  gallon  a  day  every  day 
for  a  jrear  before  feeling  certain  of  cure.  This  is  largely  prescribed  by 
physicians. 

Taper  Lights.— The  best  light  for  a  sick  room  is  furniahed  by  the  tapers 
which  come  in  boxes  (bought  at  any  dru^-store)  in  a  vase  or  a  tumbler 
of  lard-oil.  The  taper  is  simply  a  small  wick  set  in  a  tiny  piece  of  wood. 
In  the  box  of  tapers  is  a  float — a  three-cornered  frame  of  tin  with  a  bit 
of  cork  on  each  corner.  This  is  placed  on  the  surface  of  the  oil,  and  the 
taper  set  on  it,  the  bottom  of  the  wood  resting  in  the  oil.  It  mav  then 
be  lig;hted,  and  produces  an  a|preeable  light,  without  smoke  or  smell,  and 
Buificient  for  the  purposes  of  the  sick-room  or  nursery,  and  yet  not  sa 
glaring  as  to  be  oisagreeable.  All  persons  accustomed  to  light  in  the 
sleeping-room  will  find  this  much  better  than  a  lamp  turned  low.  The 
tunibler  may  be  half  full  of  water,  with  oil  on  top. 

To  Promote  or  Restore  Menstruation. — Put  a  small  teacup  of  logwood 
chips  into  a  pint  of  soft  water,  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  one 
half  pint  of  whisky.    Dose,  one  tablespoon  half  an  hour  before  each  meal, 
and  just  before  going  to  bed. 

Another  excellent  prescription  for  the  same  purpose  is  made  as  follows: 
Two  drams  of  prepared  citrate  of  iron  and  quinine,  one  pint  cherry  wine^ 
one-half  ounce  chamomile  flowers. 

Raw  Linseed  Oil  is  one  of  the  best  applications  for  burns,  wounds,  or 
cuts.  It  excludes  the  air  and  heals  rapidly.  Dip  a  cloth  in  it,  and  apply, 
covering  with  a  second  cloth.  For  flux  or  diarrhea  in  children,  give  a  tea- 
spoonful  three  times  a  day  until  the  disease  has  abated.  Be  careful  not 
to  use  boiled  linseed  oil  as  a  remedy  in  cases  of  men  or  animals.  When 
boiled  it  is  only  used  for  painting. 

Cure  for  Couqh  or  Hoarseness. — One  of  the  best  remedies  for  coughs, 
colds,  and  particularly  for  hoarseness,  is  made  as  follows ;  Wet  a  piece  of 
ootton-battmg  on  the  inside,  wrap  it  around  a  lemon,  and  cover  with  ashes 
and  coals  to  roast  as  you  would  roast  a  potato;  let  it  roast  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes ;  take  out,  clip  off  one  end,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  and 
strain  it  through  a  thin  cloth  to  remove  any  seeds  or  particles  of  pulp. 
There  will  be  from  four  to  five  teaspoonfuls  of  juice,  wnich  mix  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  strained  honey  (to  strain  warm  and  strain  through  a 
thin  cloth) ;  or,  instead  of  honey,  add  three  teaspoons  of  granulated  sugar^ 
place  the  cup  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  set  on  stove  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Take  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  every  hour,  or  after  a  spell  of  coughing. 
For  a  child  add  a  larger  proportion  of  honey  and  «ugar,  and  give  a  quar- 
ter teaspoonful  every  two  hours. 

Bright's  Disease. — Dr.  Arthur  Scott  Dorkin  extols  a  skim-milk  diet  in 
this  disease.     "The  first  appreciable  action,'*,  he  says, "of  skim-milk  taken  to 
the  extent  of  six  or  Heven  pints  daily,  is  that  of  a  most  energetic  diuretic,    . 
a  profuse   flow  of   urine   being  rapidly   produced.     The   effect  of  this  in 
Bnght's  disease,  is  to  flush  tlie  uriniferous  tubules,  and  to  dislodge  and 


642  MEDICAL. 

wash  out  the  concrete  casts  of  diseased  epithelial  cells  bv  which  they  are 
blocked  up  and  distended.  The  emptying  of  the  tubules  relieves  their 
pre:stfure  on  the  surrounding  secondary  capillaries,  the  blood  begins  to  flow 
more  freely  through  them,  the  distension  of  the  primary  malpighian  ca- 
pillaries is  relieved ;  less  and  less  albumen  escapes  through  their  walls^ 
until  the  renal  circulation  is  gradually  restored,  ^'hen  it  finally  disappears 
from  the  urine.  While  this  beneficial  change  is  progressing,  healthy  epi- 
thelium is  developed  in  the  tubules,  and  the  urinary  excrement  is  withdrawn 
from  the  blood.  In  short,  a  healthy  nutrition  becomes  re-established  in 
the  kidneys  through  the  agency  of  milk,  which,  above  all  other  substances^ 
seems  to  exercise  a  controlling  influence  over  this  process. 

IXHAL.VTIOX  OF  Tar  FOR  CONSUMPTION: — Mix  together  sixteen  ounces  of 
liquid  tar  and  one  fluid  ounce  liquor  of  potassa,  boil  them  for  a  few  min- 
'utes  in  the  open  air,  then  let  it  simmer  in  an  iron  vessel  over  a  spirit  or 
other  lamp  in  the  chamber  of  the  patient.  This  may  at  first  excite  a  aisposi- 
tion  to  cough,  but  in  a  short  time  it  allays  it»  and  removes  any  tendency 
to  it 

French  Remedy  for  Chronic  Rheumatism. — Dr.  Bonnet,  of  Graulbet, 
France,  states,  in  a  letter  to  the  '*Abeille  Medieale,'*  that  he  has  been  long 
in  the  habit  of  prescribing  "  the  essential  oil  of  turpentine  by  friction  for 
rheumatism ;  and  that  he  lias  used  it  himself  with  perfect  success,  having 
almost  instantaneously  got  rid  of  rheumatic  pains  in  both  knees  and  in  the 
left  shoulder." 

Magnetic  Ointment  Equal  to  Trask's. — Hard  raisins  cut  in  pieces,  and 
fine-cut  tobacco,  equal  weights;  simmer  well  together,  then  strain,  and 
press  out  all  from  the  dregs.  This  is  excellent  for  external  applications, 
for  cold  in  the  head,  api)lying  it  to  the  temples,  outside  and  inside  of  nose, 
and  forehead.  Applied  inside  of  nose  it  clears  the  head  bv  sneezing.  It 
is  also  good  for  croup  if  applied  first  to  the  throat  and  afterward  to  the 
chest. 

Wens. — Dissolve  copperas  in  water  to  make  it  very  strong;  now  take  a 
pin,  needle,  or  sharp  knife,  and  prick  or  cut  the  wen  in  about  a  dozen 
places,  ju.st  sufiftcient  to  cause  it  to  bleed-,  then  wet  it  well  with  the  cop- 
penis  water,  once  daily. 

To  Cure  a  Cold. — A  bad  cold  should  be  "nipped  in  the  bud."  To  do 
this  no  medicine  is  required.  A  person  who  finds  he  has  taken  cold  should 
bundle  up  unusually  warm  in  bed  with  a  bottle  of  hot  water  at  his  feet. 
The  object  is  to  create  a  mild  perspiration  the  entire  night.  Before  dressing 
in  the  morning  take  a  sponge  bath  in  cool  water  and  apply  friction  to  the 
skin  until  it  is  in  a  glow.  The  cold,  probably  will  then  have  disappeared, 
but  If  not  follow  the  same  course  another  night.  But  this  remedy  must 
be  applied  promptly  after  noting  the  first  indications — ^such  as  sneezing  or 
running  at  the  noze ;  if  left  a  day  or  two,  the  cold  will  be  sure  to  run  its 
course.  Often  toasting  the  feet  the  whole  evening  by  the  fire  will  answer 
the  purpose. 

Sleeplessness. — The  loss  of  power  to  cast  off  the  burden  of  the  day,  and 
find  rest  at  night,  is  one  of  tne  greatest  of  personal  afflictions;  vet,  it  is 
.^tte  to  say  that  wakefulness  at  night  is  an  acquired  habit,  which  can  be 
overcome,  like  other  bad  habits,  if  not  too  long  indulged.  Let  any  adult 
person  awake,  say  at  midnight,  and  "get  to  thinking"  for  an  hour  oi  two; 
do  this  the  following  three  or  four  nights;  he  will  find  that  it  will  then  re- 
quire a  powerful  effort  of  the  will  to  resist  doing  the  .same  thing  for  several 
nights  thereafter.  A  person  should  never  give  way  to  the  dangerous  habit  of 
lying  awake  at  nights ;  for  that  is  exactly  what  it  is,  a  dangerous  habit, 
and  nothing  else. 

Trichin Jt. — Don't  eat  raw  hog  meat  of  any  sort.  It  may  contain  trichiniB, 
and  if  it  does,  the  undertaker  may  as  well  be  sent  for. 

Limb  in  the  Eye. — When  lime,  soda,  potash,  or  ammonia,  gets  in  the  eyi^ 
wash  out  with  water  containing  a  little  vinegar. 


MEDICAL,  643 

Light  Suppebs. — Give  the  whole  family  light  suppers  and  send  the  children 
early  to  bed, 

Curb  for  Lock-jaw,  said  to  be  positive,— Let  any  one  wUo  has  an  attack 
of  lock-jaw  take  a  small  quantity  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  warm  it,  and 
pour  it  on  the  wound — no  matter  where  the  wound  is,  or  what  its  nature 
IS — and  relief  will  follow  in  less  than  a  minute.  ^Turpentine  is  also  a  sov- 
ereign remedy  for  croup.  Saturate  a  piece  of  flannel  witli  it,  and  place  the 
flannel  on  the  throat  and  chest — and  in  very  severe  cases  three  to  five  drops 
on  a  lump  of  sugar  may  \ye  taken  internafly. 

Remedy  for  Consumption. — ^The  following  is  said  to  be  an  efiectual 
remedy,  and  will  in  time  completely  cure  the  disorder.  Live  temperately, 
avoid  spirituous  liquors,  wear  flannel  next  the  skin,  and  take,  every  morn- 
ing, half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  mixed  with  a  wine  glassful  of  the  expressed 
juice  of  green  hoarhound.  One  who  has  tried  it,  says,  "Four  weeks'  use 
of  the  hoarhound  and  milk  relieved  the  pains  of  my  breast,  rave  mo  nl)ility 
to  breathe  deep,  long  and  free,  strengthened  and  harmonized  my  voire  anil 
restored  me  to  a  better  state  of  health  than  I  had  enjoyed  for  years." 

Chapped  Hands. — When  the  hands  show  signs  of  cracking  wash  them 
elean  with  mild  soap  and  soft  warm  water.  Rinse  in  borux  water  and 
thoroughly  dry  them.  Then  anoint  them  with  vaseline  or  petroleum 
jelly,  which  can  be  ^ocured  at  any  drug  store.  Dry  it  by  the  fire  and  a 
cure  is  sure  to  follow.  This  vaseline  never  fails.  With  it  the  skin  can  be 
kept  soft  and  velvety  all  the  time. 

Relief  for  Burning  Feet. — To  relieve  burning  feet,  first  discard  tight 
boots ;  then  take  one  pint  of  bran  and  one  ounce  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  put 
in  a  foot-bath,  add  one  gallon  of  hot  water;  when  cool  enough,  soak  your 
feet  in  this  mixture  for  fifteen  minutes.  The  relief  is  instantaneous.  This 
must  be  repeated  every  night  for  a  week  or  perhaps  more.  The  bran  and 
bicarbonate  should  be  made  fresh  after  a  week's  u.se.  Bicarbonate  of  soda 
can  be  purchased  for  a  small  price  per  pound  from  wholesale  druggists. 
The  burning  sensation  is  produced  b}'  the  pores  of  the  skin  being  closea,  so 
that  the  feet  do  not  perspire. 

Croup  can  be  cured  in  one  minute,  and  the  remedy  is  simply  alum  and 
molasses.  The  way  to  accomplish  the  deed  is  to  take  a  knife  or  ^rate  and 
shave  off  in  small  particles  about  a  teaspoonful  of  alum ;  then  mix  it  with 
twice  its  quantity  of  mol&sses,  to  make  it  palatable,  and  administer  it  as 
quick  as  possible.     Almost  instantaneous  relief  will  follow  by  vomiting. 

Cure  of  Croup. — A  lady  writer  of  professed  experience  gives  the  follow- 
ing advice  to  mothers  whose  children  have  the  croup :  First  get  a  piece  of 
chamois  skin,  make  a  little  bib,  cut  out  the  neck  and  sew  on  ta^>es  to  tie  it  on ; 
then  melt  together  some  tallow  and  pine  tar ;  rub  some  of  this  in  the  chamois 
and  let  the  child  wear  it  all  the  time.  My  baby  had  the  croup  whenever  she 
took  cold,  and  since  I  put  on  the  chamois  I  have  had  no  more  trouble.  Re- 
new with  tar  occasionally. 

To  Cure  a  Felon. — Take  a  pint  of  common  soft  soap  and  stir  in  air  slacked 
lime  till  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  glazier's  putty.  Make  a  leather  thimble, 
fill  it  with  this  compasition  and  insert  the  finger  therein,  and  the  cure  is 
certain. 

Poison  by  Ivy. — An  infallible  remedy  for  poisoning  by  ivy,  poison  oak 
and  other  iX)ison  vines  and  plants,  is  good  rich  butter  milk  in  which  you 
have  beaten  some  green  tansy  leaves  until  the  milk  is  thoroughly  tinct- 
ured. Bathe  the  parts  often  (indeed,  you  could  not  do  it  too  often,)  until 
relieved.  Wet  a  cloth  with  the  mixture  at  night,  and  lay  on,  wetting  as  often 
as  it  feels  dry. 

Alger  Liniment. — Alcohol,  one  gallon;  cagiput  oil,  one  ounce;  monard 
o^l,  one  ounce;  thymes  oil,  one  ounce;  i)epi>ermintoil,  half  ounce;  camphor 
gum,  one  ounce.  Shake  well  and  let  stand  twenty-four  nours.  It  is  good 
for  rheumatism  and  for  anv  purpo.se  for  which  liniment  is  used  for  man  or 
beast.    This  is  aVery  valuable  recipe  and  has  been  sold  at  a  vpry  high  price. 


644  MEDICAL, 

Water  Treatment  at  Home. — ^The  following  methods  of  treatment  with 
water,  etc.,  have  been  tested,  and  we  know  whereof  we  speak  when  we  say 
tliey  work  like  a  cliarm.  A  thermometer  is  needed  to  test  the  temperature, 
as  the  terms  hot,  cold,  warm  and  tepid  are  so  indefinite ;  what  is  hot  to  one 
person  is  cold  to  another,  in  the  morbid  states  through  which  sick  people 
pass,  and  the  sensations  of  healthy  persons  are  so  variable  that  they  can  not 
be  relied  upon  to  temper  baths  by  the  touch,  for  those  with  whom  a  slight 
change  is  of  consequence.  Generally  70°  Fahrenheit  would  be  considered  a 
cold  oath,  85°  tepid,  95°  warm,  and  105°  hot.  The  time  of  taking  baths  ia 
from  an  hour  to  two  hours  after,  and  never  within  half  an  hour  before,  eat- 
ing; and  those  who  are  taking  treatment  for  chronic  ailments,  or  for  cleanli- 
ness, should  not  bathe  when  tired ;  but  when  one  is  suffering  from  acute 
diseases,  and  becomes  restless  and  nervous,  a  sponge-bath  or,  if  able  to  bear 
it,  a  pack  or  a  sitz  or  foot-bath  will  greatly  refresh  and  soothe.  From  ten  to 
twelve  in  the  morning  generally  finds  the  bod^  at  its  highest  point  of  vigor, 
and  as  treatments  are  most  beneficial  then,  this  proves  the  best  time;  but  if 
this  can  not  be,  take  just  before  retiring.  In  all  baths  a  cold  wet  cloth  should 
be  kept  on  head  and  jug  of  hot  water,  with  rubber  cork,  at  feet  (except  in 
foot-baths),  keeping  head  cool  and  feet  warm.  When  baths  are  to  be  reduced, 
add  cold  water  till  right  temperature  is  reached ;  but  after  foot-baths  the  better 
way  is  to  have  a  pail  ot  cold  water  and  take  what  is  tailed  a  foot-plunge,  im- 
mersing  the  feet  one  at  a  time,  for  a  moment,  in  this  pail;  or  the  cold  water 
may  be  poured  right  over  the  feet.  The  theory  is  this :  wherever  water  is 
applied  to  any  part  or  the  whole  of  the  body,  at  so  high  a  temperature  as  to 
relax  the  coats  of  the  capillaries  and  distend  them  with  blood,  it  must  be 
followed  by  an  application  at  so  low  a  temperature  as  to  constringe  the  ves- 
sels and  restore  their  tone.  When  bath  is  completed  wrap  at  once  in  a  dry- 
sheet  and  rub  vigorously  with  a  crash  towel,  as  the  patient  must  not  have  any 
chilly  sensations,  and  the  skin  should  be  left  all  aglow.  A  strong  person 
may  now  take  anv  exercise  wished,  so  as  to  establish  thorough  and  perma- 
nent reaction,  but  delicate  persons  had  better  rest  for  an  hour  or  two. 

The  Sitz-Bath. — ^This  is  a  very  pleasant  remedy  for  a  great  many  ills.  To 
take,  have  a  sitz-bath  tub,  which  is  either  of  tin  or  wood,  something  the  shape 
of  a  chair,  the  seat  being  the  tub,  and  the  back  is  hollowed  out  to  fit  the  back 
of  person;  or  one  can  be  improvised  by  taking  a  large  wash-tub  and  placing 
something  under  at  back,  so  as  to  incline  it.  Patient  undresses  and  sits  in 
tub,  with  water  enough  to  nearly  fill  it  when  he  sits  down,  with  a  foot-tub 
of  water  for  his  feet;  place  blanket  around  him  from  the  front,  so  as  to  well 
cover  him,  and  tack  in  carefully  at  the  back ;  place  a  cold  wet  cloth  on  head. 
The  general  temperature  for  a  sitz  is  92°  for  ten  minutes;  88°,  five  minutes; 
and  for  foot  water  100°.  Now  have  a  pail  of  cold  water,  and  plunge  feet  one 
at  a  time  in  it,  then  throw  a  dry  sheet  around  him,  and  rub  dry  quickly  and 
vigorously  with  a  crash  towel.  These  site-baths  are  ^ood  for  colds,  diarrhea^ 
piles,  female  weakness,  urinary  trouble,  bilious  colic,  and,  in  fact,  almost 
every  ill  that  flesh  is  heir  to. 

For  colds — a  sitz-bath  as  warm  as  can  be  borne  (106°  is  good),  adding  hot 
water  as  it  cools,  so  as  to  keep  it  at  that  temperature  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
with  foot-bath  hot,  hotter,  hottest.  Keep  well  wrapped  up,  a  cold  wet  cloth 
on  head,  rub  thoroughly  dry,  and  go  right  to  bed.  Or  some  follow  with  a 
dripping  sheet;  and  others  who  are  robust,  and  wish  to  break  up  a  severe 
cola,  take  this  hot  sitz,  then  a  pack  at  about  85°,  then  a  dripping  sheet,  and 
diet  carefullv  for  two  or  three  days,  remaining  in  bed  if  possible.  Where  it 
is  only  a  slight  cold  a  hot  foot-bath,  as  described  elsewhere,  suffices ;  and  this 
is  also  better  for  children  under  six  or  seven  years  of  age,  as  you  can  not 
easily  give  them  a  sitz. 

The  temperature  of  a  sitz-bath,  in  different  diseases,  is  about  as  follows: 
Colds — hot  as  can  be  borne.  Diarrhea— cool,  about  90°  for  ten  minutes,  and 
84°,  five  minutes.  Piles — 96°,  ten  minutes;  90°,  five  minutes.  •  Female  weak- 
ness—94°,  ten  minutes;  88°,  ten  minutes.    Profuse  menstruation — 84° -five 


MEDICAL,  645 

tnfnutes;  78®,  five  roinntes,  and  72®,  five  minutes.  Urinary  troubles— 92®, 
ten  minutes,  and  88®,  tive  minutes.  Bilious  colic  and  for  all  acute  pains — 
102®,  rapidly  raised  to  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  but  take  out  patient  before 
])er8piring.  Chronic  pains — 104®,  three  minutes;  90®,  five  minutes,  and  86®, 
live  minutes.  For  malaria— 104®  at  first,  adding  hot  water  till  the  person  per- 
flpires.  For  retention  of  urine,  with  a  desire  to  urinate — a  sitz-bath  at  lUO®, 
ten  minutes,  and  90®,  five  minutes,  with  foot-bath  as  hot  as  can  be  borne, 
with  cold  plunge  and  a  vigorous  rubbing  with  damp  salt,  repeated  for  two  or 
three  days,  will  give  perfect  relief. 

The  sitz-bath  is  of  great  importance  in  drawing  the  blood  from  the  brain, 
and  also  relieves  congestion  of  the  abdominal  structures.  The  usual  length 
is  from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes,  according  to  strength  of  patient,  if  an  in- 
valid, or  as  it  feels  comfortable. 

The  Foot- Bath. — ^This  good  old  remedy  for  colds,  etc.,  as  given,  was  always 
attended  with  the  risk  of  taking  more  cold.  This  is  easily  overcome  by  the 
very  simple  adjunct  of  a  pail  of  cold  water  in  which  to  plunge  the  feet,  and 
give  bath  in  this  way  for  a  cold :  At  night  have  a  foot-tub  of  hot  w^ater — UO®, 
or  hotter  if  patient  vnU  bear  it;  and  he  can  be  dressed  or  undressed,  but  must, 
in  either  case,  be  well  wrapped  with  a  blanket,  a  cold  wet  cloth  on  head,  and 
as  water  cools  add  hot.  In  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  take  out  feet  and  plunge 
for  a  moment  in  pail  of  cold  water,  then  wipe  dry  and  rub  to  a  glow,  retire 
at  once,  and  in  the  morning  all  traces  of  the  cold,  such  as  head  stopped  up, 
aore  throat,  etc.,  will  have  disappeared.  For  a  little  child,  where  ne  can 
not  take  the  plunge,  wet  a  towel  in  cold  water,  and  take  his  feet  on  your  lap 
and  rub  with  the  wet  towel,  and  then  wipe  dry.  The  plunge  or  cooling  of 
the  water  ought  to  follow  all  foot-baths,  whether  for  colds,  a  tired  feeling, 
headache,  cleanliness,  etc.  Where  one  has  had  a  hard  day's  work  nothing  is 
more  restful  than  a  foot-bath  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  The  usual  foot-bath  is 
104®,  and  hot  water  added  to  keep  it  at  this  point  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes ; 
but  where  it  is  given  with  sitz,  no  more  hot  water  is  added.  For  chronic 
cold  feet  have  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  one  minute,  then  plunge  feet  in 
cold,  then  in  the  hot  a  minute,  and  repeat  this  from  six  to  a  dozen  times, 
ending  with  the  cold  plunge,  and  then  rub  vigorously.  For  a  child,  need  not 
make  so  many  changes.  Take  this  three  times  a  week.  For  a  sprain,  this 
treatment  is  one  of  the  best ;  or  a  spray  of  hot  a  minute,  and  then  a  cold  spray, 
then  hot,  and  so  on  for  half  a  dozen  times. 

What  is  called  by  some  a  deep  leg-bath  is  only  an  '*  extension  foot-bath,** 
and  is  of  prime  importance  in  congestion  of  the  brain,  catarrh,  and,  in  fact, 
any  head  trouble,  as  it  is  purely  a  derivative  bath.  It  is  given  best  in  a  tub 
twenty-eight  inches  high,  top  diameter  twenty  inches,  and  bottom  seventeen 
inches.  Have  patient  stand  in  this  with  water  to  his  hips,  of  the  tempera- 
ture of  108®  or  110®,  for  ten  minutes,  cold  wet  cloth  on  his  head,  and  a  sheet 
wrapped  around  him ;  step  out  and  spray  the  legs,  or  even  the  whole  body, 
with  water  of  the  temperature  of  86®,  and  gradually  reduced  to  as  cool  as 
can  be  borne;  or  a  bucket  of  water  85®  can  be  thrown  over  legs,  and  then 
one  at  75®.  Where  there  is  severe  congestion  of  the  brain,  have  two  pails 
of  water,  same  temperature  as  tub,  placed  on  each  side.  Iiigli  enough  to  c<mic 
np  even  with  top  of  tub,  and  have  patient  immerse  his  arms  in  these.  The 
deep  leg-bath  can  not  be  taken  till  two  hours  after  eating,  but  the  ordinary 
foot-bath  in  an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half.  A  foot-batn  may  be  given  in 
bed  by  placing  a  rubber  cloth  under  the  foot^tub,  and  it  gives  great  relief 
ofttimes. 

Fomentations. — The  method  of  giving  this  treatment  is  very  simple,  and 
yet  very  few  give  them  correctly.  First,  have  flannel  cloths,  made  of  four 
thicknesses  white  shaker-flannel  (or  pieces  of  a  blanket),  sewed  across  the 
center  from  corner  to  comer,  and  also  all  around  the  udpes.  Different  sizes 
are  needed :  one,  10  by  13  inches,  for  across  iimall  of  back ;  one,  12  by  17 
inches,  for,  over  chest,  stomach  and  bowels;  and  one,  5  by  18  inches,  for 
down  the  spine ;  then  one  for  the  throat.     And  of  course  one  can  make  any 


646  MEDICAL. 

shapes  wished ;  and,  where  there  are  children,  many  different  sizes  must  be 
in  readiness  in  the  bath-room  cupboard.     Fomentations  are  good  for  all 
pains,  aches,  inflammations,  inactivity  of  stomach  and  liver,  and  are  always 
a  success,  giving  relief  to  pain  at  once.     Where  the  case  is  acute  they  should 
be  given  daily,  and  in  severe  cases  oftener  —  if  necessary,  continuing  for 
two  hours  at  a  time.    (Have  known  them  to  be  given  for  five  consecutive 
hours.)    The  usual  length  of  time  is  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes,  giving 
four  or  five  changes  of  five  minutes  each.    For  a  child,  if  rather  wcaJ^  give 
only  two  or  three  changes,  and  repeat  oftener.  if  for  pain,  whenever  it  re- 
turns.   The  manner  of  treatment  is  this :   Place  on  a  bed  or  cot  a  comforter 
and  blanket.    Let  patient  undress  entirely,  as  he  does  for  a  pack,  and  lie 
ui)on  the  blanket,  with  a  jug  of  hot  water  at  his  feet;  then  wrin^  the  flannel 
out  of  boiling  water — and  there  are  different  ways  of  doing  this — as,  to  be 
eflicacious,  the  cloth  must  be  very  hot — as  hot  as  patient  can  bear,  and  he  can 
bear  it  a  great  deal  hotter  than  he  thinks.    Of  course,  for  children,  the  one 
who  gives  treatment  must  be  the  judge.    One  rule  is,  what  you  can  bear  to 
your  face ;  or  some  put  one  thickness  of  dry  flannel  next  skin,  and  then  the 
hot  fomentation ;  or  wring  flannel  with  your  hands,  or  have  water  at  150°. 
But,  for  adults,  the  best  way  is  to  immerse  flannel  in  boiling  water  and 
wring  with  a  wringer — a  small  one,  fastened  to  a  wooden  pail,  being  very 
convenient;  or,  if  one  has  a  bath-room,  have  a  sink  in  tnat,  and  fastea 
wringer  to  it;  or  a  small  tub  can  be  arranged  with  feet,  so  it  can  be  moved 
into  any  room  necessary.    The  next  best  way  is  to  place  in  a  foot^tub  a 
cloth  of  two  thicknesses  of  heavy  muslin  (flour  sack  will  do),  extending  over 
the  ends  of  tub ;  place  flannel  folded  in  center  of  it,  and  have  two  square 
sticks  (two  feet  long  and  inch  and  a  half  square)  ready  to  place  at  each  end, 
resting  on  top  of  flannel;  pour  on  the  boiling  water,  put  in  sticks,  and  let 
one  person  take  hold  of  each,  turning  sticks,  bringing  up  the  muslin  around 
it,  and  then  wring  in  opposite  directions;  or,  if  only  one  person  prepares 
cloths,  have  another  dry  muslin  cloth,  and,  aft«jr  boiling  water  is  poured  on 
flannel,  lift  all  into  this  dry  cloth,  and  then  wring.    This  is  rather  severe  on 
the  hands,  but  can  be  done.    Now  put  flannel  on  part  to  be  fomented,  and 
bring  up  one  side  of  blanket,  then  the  other,  and  then  comforter,  placing  a 
cold  wet  cloth  on  head.    (If  patient  is  sick  in  bed,  a  piece  of  dry  flannel  oin  be 
placed  under  him,  if  back  is  to  be  fomented  or  if  the  upper  paVt  of  body,  over 
the  fomentation  cloths,  and  then,  in  either  case,  tuck  bed  clothes  w^ell  around 
him.)    Let  flannel  remain  five  minutes,  wring  again;  or,  if  you  have  two 
cloths,  have  second  one  ready,  and  let  it  remain  on  five  minutes,  and  so  on 
for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.    In  chronic  diseases  repeat  this  three  or  four 
times  a  week,  and  it  will  prove  to  be  one  of  the  best  treatments  to  reduce 
chronic  inflamnjation  and  congestion  of  the  stomach,  liver,  bowels,  spleen, 
and  kidneys.     After  the  fomentations,  sponge  off  part  fomented  with  tepid 
water,  rub  dry  with  a  towel,  and  oil  witn  sweet  or  cocoanut  oil ;  and  if  for 
pain  or  soreness,  use  sweet  oil  and  ammonia,  prepared  by  dropping  ammonia 
into  sweet  oil  till  it  becomes  white  (to  a  two-ounce  bottle  of  oil,  three  or  four 
drops).    This  rubbing  with  oil  prevents  taking  cold.     In  pneumonia  nothing 
is  better  than  hot  fomentations  given  as  described.     In  rheumatic  fever,  add 
cooking-soda  to  the  water,  in  proportion  of  table-spoon  to  a  quart  of  water, 
and  foment  right  over  the  heart.     In  rheumatism,  neuralgia^  bilious  colic, 
et(\,  etc.,  fomentations  avail  much,  giving  instantaneous  relief  sometimes. 
Sickness  at  the  stomach,  a  dizzy,  heavy  feeling,  and  severe  pain  in  head, 
will  all  be  relieved  at  once  by  fomenting  the  stomach.     For  a  bal)e  who 
has  severe  colic,  when  fomentations  are  applied  with  two  thicknesses  of  flan-r 
nel  next  skin,  and  with  care,  they  are  just  the  thing.     In  any  bronchial  or 
lung  trouble,  these  given  over  the  lungs,  chest  and  throat,  extending  half 
way  around  neck,  have  been  known  to  in  time  effect  a  cure  where  the  voice 
had  been  almost  lost.    The  effect  of  fomentations  is  to  bri?ig  the  bl<3od  to  the 
surface,  and  thus  prevent  inflammation  and  congestion.    Tliey  can  be  taken 
any  time,  except  half  an  before  or  an  hour  and  a  half  after  eating. 


MEDICAL.  647 

Female  Weaknesses. — One  of  the  best  treatments  for  leucorrhea,  ulcera- 
tion, and,  in  fact,  any  female  weakness,  is  the  hot  vaginal  enema.  The  best 
syringe  to  use  is  one  that  has  only  side  openings  in  the  metal  tube,  and  this 
is  an  easy  way  to  give  it:  Place  a  blanket  in  the  long  bath-tub,  letting  it 
reach  down  to  the  hips  when  you  lie  down  on  your  back.  The  temperature 
most  often  used  is  110°  for  ten  minutes,  and  100®  for  five  minutes;  but  it  can 
be  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  as  what  is  unpleasant  to  the  surface  is  hardly  felt  in 
the  interior;  and  by  placing  a  folded  olanket  under  the  hips,  so  as  to  raise 
them  quite  high,  ana  closing  the  opening  around  the  tube  of  the  syringe 
when  inserted,  a  pint  of  water  may  be  retained  for  several  minutes,  acting 
AS  a  fomentation  to  the  inner  surface ;  then  eject  this  and  inject  more,  and 
fio  continue  for  ten  to  twenty  minutes.  Repeat  this  three  times  a  week,  and 
wear  all  the  time,  day  and  niglit,  a  compress  made  of  three  thicknesses  of 
linen,  long  enough  to  pass  well  around  the  abdomen,  wet  in  tepid  water, 
with  a  dry  flannel  (about  two  thicknesses)  over  it;  re-wet  the  compress 
whenever  it  becomes  drjr.  Then  there  are  the  fomentations  and  sitz-baths, 
described  elsewhere,  which  are  invaluable.  Another  special  treatment  is 
the  pelvic  compress :  Take  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  linen,  about  12  by  10 
inches,  and  have  bed  or  cot  arranged  as  for  a  pack ;  have  patient  lie  down 
upon  the  blanket,  with  jug  of  hot  water  at  feet,  and  cool  cloth  on  head; 
then  wet  compress  in  water  at  80°  and  place  over  abdomen,  extending  well 
over  the  affected  parts;  bring  up  blanket  and  comforter,  and  in  five  minutes 
wet  cloth  in  water  at  74°,  in  three  minutes  70°,  in  five  minutes  G4°,  in  three 
minutes  60°,  in  five  minutes  cold,  and  after  five  minutes  take  towel  and  rub 
•dry.  This,  repeated  three  times  a  week,  is  very  strengthening.  In  preg- 
nancy, tepid  sitz-baths,  the  wearing  of  the  compress  around  abdomen,  and  a 
diet  of  fruit,  grains  and  vegetables,  with  oil-baths  occasionally,  if  one  is  not 
fleshy,  keep  the  svstem  in  a  healthy  state. 

Compresses. — The  use  of  compresses  is  good  for  so  many  ailments  that  one 
should  know  how  to  apply  them.  Compress  cloths  are  made  of  two  or  three 
thicknesses  of  old  linen  (crash  toweling  is  good),  and  can  be  of  whatever 
shapes  wished.  The  difference  between  compresses  and  fomentations  are, 
the  first  is  wet,  and  wrung  so  it  will  not  drip,  in  tepid  or  cold  water, — hence 
linen  is  best;  while  the  latter  is  wet  in  hot  water.  A  dry  flannel  of  two 
thicknesses,  a  little  wider  and  longer,  is  put  on  over  theMinen  compress, 
which  is  re- wet  three  times  a  day  in  chronic  cases,  or  when  it  feels  un- 
comfortable. The  throat  compress,  for  chronic  trouble,  is  wet  in  tepid  water, 
and  is  worn  day-time  in  summer,  and  at  night  in  winter;  and  when  taken 
off,  the  throat  is  bathed  in  cold  water  and  rubbed  till  red  with  a  cra.sh  towel. 
The  chest  comi)ress,  in  acute  cases— such  as  pneumonia — should  bo  re-wet 
every  three  hours  in  water  at  90°;  for  chronic  lung  trouble,  re- wet  whenever 
it  feels  unpleasant.  The  abdominal  compress  is  one  of  great  value  in  fevers, 
kidney  trouble,  indigestion,  weak  back  (for  thi?,  use  salt  in  water),  female 
weaknesses,  and  is  aiwavs  a  relief  when  one  is  tired  and  restless.  For  acute 
or  clironic  cases,  wear  till  the  disease  is  conquered.  The  spinal  compress  is 
used  where  there  is  pain  in  the  spine,  with  sense  of  heat,  and  is  given  like  a 
fomentation,  only  with  the  linen  compreas:  70°  for  five  minutes;  (U°,  five  min- 
utes; 60°,  five  minutes;  54°,  five  minutes;  50°,  five  minutes;  and  sometimes 
the  last  changes  are  ice-cold.  For  weak  back  caused  by  a  .sore  f>lare,  use  a 
hot  flannel  compress  five  minutes  across  small  of  back,  then  a  r<»ld  linen 
one,  then  hot,  and  so  on  for  half  an  hour,  with  cold  last,  rubbinj;  dry  with 
ijrash  towel.  Another  remedy  for  simply  a  weak  back,  is  to  first  sjMingV  with 
hot  water  one  minute,  then  cold  one  minute,  for  two  or  three  times,  rub- 
bing dry,  and  then  use  oil  and  ammonia.  Compresses  are  very  much  used 
after  giving  fomentations,  and,  in  that  case,  no  si)onging  off  in  cool  water 
or  oiling  is  necessary,  but  immediately  put  on  tlie  wet  girdle  and  cover  with 
dry  flannel. 

Facks. — First,  it  is  much  more  convenient  if  you  can  have  what  is  called 
a  '* packing  cot"  made.    A  good  proportion  for  the  frame- work  is  thirty 


648  MEDICAL. 

inches  wide,  twenty-five  inches  high,  with  the  slate  placed  on  a  slight  ele- 
vation, about  three  and  a  half  inches,  at  head.    Then  a  mattreaa,  made  to  lit 
(it  can  be  of  straw  or  whatever  ^ou  wish);  on  that  place  an  oil-cloth,  then 
a  comforter,  then  a  blanket,  stripes  at  side,  and  a  jug  of  hot  water,  with 
a  rubber  cork,  at  foot.    Now  have  the  patient  undress.    Take  a  sheet,  and 
with  one  hand  pleat  up  the  side  of  it,  and  with  the  other  double  it  at  mid* 
die  seam  and  dip  it  in  a  pail  of  water  of  the  temperature  of  96^  or  100°  (jroa 
must  allow  five  or  six  degrees  for  cooling  ofT  in  wringing  out  sheet),  wrine 
and  spread  over  the  blanket.    Have  patient  lie  on  his  back  in  center,  with 
hands  over  head ;  bring  one  side  of  sheet  over  the  body,  tucking  it  under  the 
near  shoulder  and  up  close  to  the  neck,  and  then  between  the  legs;  put  arms 
down  at  side  of  body,  and  bring  other  side  of  sheet  over  the  patient  and  tuck 
in  closely  under  the  side  of  the  body  down  to  the  feet,  then  one  side  of  blanket, 
then  the  other,  then  comforter  in  same  way.    In  folding  the  blanket  and  com- 
forter around  neck  bring  it  with  one  hand,  in  shape  of  a  V,  over  the  breast, 
and  then  fold  corner  up  to  the  shoulder  and  tuck  in.   This  saves  so  much  bulk 
close  up  to  the  neck.     Now  fold  a  dry  sheet  across  the  middle  and  put  over 
the  patient,  tucking  it  in  well  around  the  neck,  so  that  no  air  can  get  in.    The 
reason  of  using  this  extra  sheet  is,  it  is  so  much  easier  tucked  closely  around 
tlie  neck  and  less  bungling  than  the  comforter.     It  it  of  gnat  impofiance  thai 
all  air  be  exchuUd  and  the  work  done  quickiy.    Place  a  cloth  wet  in  cold  water 
on  the  head,  extending  over  the  eyes.    If  the  patient  does  not  warm  up 
quickly,  put  an  extra  comforter  or  blankets  over  him,  and,  if  necessary,  jugs 
of  hot  water  at  the  side ;  for  unless  he  becomes  warm  soon,  the  pack  will  do 
no  good,  and  he  should  be  taken  out    The  usual  length  of  a  pack  is  from 
forty  minutes  to  an  hour,  for  an  adult;  for  a  child,  from  ten  minutes  to 
half  an  hour — according  to  age  and  strength.    There  must  be  perfect  qniet 
in  the  room,  for  much  Detter  results  are  obtained  if  the  patient  will  sleep: 
he  certainly  niu.st  not  talk.     In  taking  him  out  unloose  comforters  and 
blankets,  aiid  pull  the  wet  sheet  out  quickly  and  throw  over  the  dry  sheet, 
or,  in  winter,  bring  up  the  blanket    There  are  several  different  treatments 
that  follow  a  i>ack.    If  convenient  to  a  bath-room,  one  can  slip  in  and  take 
a  wasli-off,  or  a  spray,  or  a  pail-pour.    The  latter  is  given  by  having  four 
pails  of  water — two  of  one  temperature,  90®,  poured  over  first,  and  then  two 
of  8()°;  then  wrap  around  him  a  dry  sheet  and  take  a  crash  towel  and  wipe 
dry,  taking,  in  rotation,  arms,  breast  back,  and  legs.    Or  a  dripping  sheet 
caii  be  given  right  in  the  room  by  putting  an  oil-cloth  on  the  carpet:  oit 
that  put  a  foot-tub  of  water  at  104° ;  the  patient  stands  in  this,  and  a  sheet 
is  dipped  in  a  nail  half  full  of  water  at  90°,  or  less,  tal.en  up  by  two  comers, 
s<iueezed  slightly,  and  put  around  him  from  the  front  lapping  behind,  and 
then  rub  him  (over  the  8heet)  vigorously  for  a  minute;  re-dip  the  sheet 
(water  will  be  cooler,  or  some  cold  may  be  added  to  make  it  aboat  (>°  or  8° 
less  thini  at  first),  and  put  it  around  from  behind,  and  rub  again;  then  re- 
move, and  cover  with  a  dry  sheet  and  rub  vigorously.     This  bath  is  a  good 
treatment  taken  alone  as  well  as  after  a  pack.     It  arts  as  a  tonic,  and  a  well 
person  can  take  it  himself.     Or,  if  an  oil-bath,  sponge  or  dry  rub  is  given, 
let  him  remain  on  the  cot  and,  for  an  oil-bath,  rub  an  arm  dry  with  a  crash 
towel,  then  rub  with  oil,  and  so  on  ;   for  a  sponge-bath,  take  a  sponge  (or  a 
towel)  and  topid  water,  and  sponge  off,  rubbing  dry  with  a  crash  towel :  for 
a  dry  rub,  sim])ly  rub  dry  with  a  crash  towel,  rubbing  hard  to  create  good 
cinnilaticm.     The  temperature  of  the  room  should  be  about  75°;  and  whi-n 
the  patient  is  taken  out  of  the  pack,  let  no  cold  air  come  on  him.     The  tem- 
perature of  the  wat4>r  in  which  sheet  is  dippe<i,  for  adults  generally,  is  not 
so  imiM)rtant,  fus  within  two  or  three  minutes  it  becomes  of  the  same  tem- 
perature as  the  body ;  from  90°  to  100°  is  a  good  range,  but  for  children  and 
delicate  jHTsons  it  sliould  be  from  100°  to  110°,  so  as  not  to  shock  them. 
Packs  are  of  great  value  in  reducing:  fever,  in  breaking  up  a  cold,  in  malarial 
diseases,  such  as  fever  and  ague,  etc. ;  and  also  in  poor  circulation  and  where 
the  .system  is  weakened  and  run  down  it  acts  as  a  tonic.    In  the  spring,  when 


MEDICAL,  649 

the  system  needs  bnilding  up,  just  try  a  few  packs  instead  of  the  sulphur 
and  molasses  of  old  times. 

Oil-rubs. — This  treatment  is  one  tliat  elves  perfect  satisfaction  to  all  who 
try  it ;  indeed,  too  much  praise  can  not  be  given  to  it.  To  see  the  effects  of 
oil-rubs,  one  would  say  as  did  the  Queen  of  Sheba,  "The  half  has  not  been 
told."  To  give  it,  have  the  patient  imdressed,  with  a  sheet  or  blanket  around 
him,  sitting  up  or  lying  down;  take  either  cocoanut,  pure  olive,  or  sweet 
oil,  whichever  can  be  obtained  the  purest;  pour  some  in  palm  of  hand,  rub 
hands  together,  then  take  aTi  arm  and  rub  in  the  oil  thoroughly,  rubbing  up 
and  down,  using  more  oil  if  necessary  (as  much  as.  skin  will  absorb) ;  cover 
this  arm ;  take  more  oil  and  rub  the  other  arm,  then  breast,  back  and  legs; 
cover  each  part  when  finished.  Repeat  from  three  to  six  times  a  week,  as 
the  case  may  demand.  One  who  is  greatly  reduced  can  take  with  benefit 
six  a  week. '  Once  a  week  take  a  wash-offi  or  an  acid  sponge,  by  putting 
a  scant  tea-cup  vinegar  in  a  ^llon  of  warm  water,  and  using  a  sponge  or 
towel,  then  ruobing  dry.  This  is  esj)ecially  good  for  consumptives,  dyspep- 
tics, and  persons  who,  from  any  cause,  have  been  reduced  in  flesh  and 
stren^li.  It  acts  as  a  tonic, — thus  it  is  of  twofold  value  where  one  is  re- 
covering from  sickness,  as  it  is  also  nutritive  to  them,  and  to  those  who 
are  cold-blooded  it  warms  up  the  system.  So  for  children  it  is  especially 
good  in  winter,  as  an  oil-rub  at  night  will  assist  in  keeping  them  warm ; 
80  in  the  day-time,  if  going  on  a  long  drive,  or  to  be  exposed  to  the  cold 
/or  awhile,  it  is  a  good  "send-off."  For  colds  it  works  to  a  charm,  for 
young  or  old,  acting  as  a  preventive,  as  it  builds  up  the  system,  and  renders 
it  less  liable  to  disease.  Or,  when  a  cold  is  taken,  it  is  easily  broken  up 
by  a  pack,  followed  immediately  by  an  oil-rub,  and  the  next  two  nights 
simply  oil-rubs,  a  hot  foot-bath,  108®,  then  cooled  down,  and  followed  by 
a  complete  oil-rub.  Where  adults  or  children  are  delicate,  the  oil-rub 
gives  good,  healthy  flesh ;  and  where  it  is  given  as  described,  the  result 
18  perfect.  For  constipation  it  is  invaluable,  working  a  perfect  cure  after 
a  month  or  two.  It  can  be  given  at  any  time,  without  reference  to  eat- 
ing, as  it  is  a  nutritive  bath.  The  following  description — given  by  Dr. 
James  H.  Jackson  of  "Our  Home  on  the  Hillside,"  at  Dansville,  N.  Y., 
where  these  rubs  have  been  used  for  many  years — tells  in  forcible  lan- 
guage their  use  and  value: 

"Oil-baths  are  given  by  rubbing  the  body  all  over  with  some  kind  of 
oil.  It  is  not  necessary  to  use  more  than  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  at 
one  bath,  but  it  should  be  rubbed  in  thoroughly,  especially  over  the  ab- 
domen, inside  the  arms  and  thighs,  where  it  can  be  absorl)€d  to  tlie  best 
advantage.  They  may  be  taken  at  any  time  during  the  day.  It  is  as  well, 
perhaps,  to  take  them  before  going  to  bed  as  at  any  other  time.  They  may 
oe  given  to  meet  any  one  of  three  conditions: 

"  1st.  To  .*«upply  waste  of  tissue  and  to  introduce  a  very  important  ele- 
ment of  nutrition  into  the  body.  Manv  persons  will  absorb  oil  to  advan- 
tage nutritively,  who  can  neither  take  it  nor  fats  by  the  stomach  without 
great  distre.«^s  or  disturbance. 

"2d.  To  improve  the  functions  of  the  skin,  which  has  become  dry  and 
hard,  and  lacks  prox)er  circulation  in  its  capillaries. 

"3d.  To  allay  nervous  irritation  and  reduce  fever.  Persons  in  parox- 
ysms of  fever,  in  typhoid,  measles  and  scarlatina  esjiecially,  may  be  freely 
anointed  with  oil  U)  great  advantage.  In  my  practice  I  have  often  seen 
the  temperature  of  the  body,  when  in  a  febrile  state,  reduced  from  one 
to  three  decrees  by  the  administration  of  an  oil-bath. 

"I  like  the  cocoanut  oil  better  than  the  olive,  as  it  is  more  likely  to  be 
genuine;  it  f»enetrates  better,  it  does  not  turn  rancid  on  the  body,  and  I 
think  it  furnishes  more  nutriment  U)  the  body.  Olive  oils,  as  a  general 
thing,  are  impure." 

From  the  above  you  can  see  it  is  "multum  in  parvo,"  as  it  can  really 
be  depended  upon  for  use  in  almost  every  thing  the  flesh  is  heir  to ;  and 

40 


650  MEDICAL, 

the  ^reat  beauty  rtf  it  is,  any  one  can  give  it  without  feeling  fear  as  to  the 
results.  It  can  not  do  hami  unless  the  patient  is  very  fleshy;  then  it  is  not 
needed.  It  is  .so  easily  given  that  a  child  can  give  it  to  younger  children. 
Its  use  in  reducing  fever  is  of  untold  value.  A  lady,  who  had  had  ex- 
tended experience  in  using  it,  says:  *'I  have  known  an  oil-bath  given  a 
patient,  in  scarlet  fever,  with  fever  raging,  and  in  a  little  while  the  tempera- 
ture was  reduced,  and  he  was  quietly  sleeping." 

For  little  babies  it  is  really  a  blessing,  as  it  nourishes  and  strengthens 
them;  and  given  every  other  day,  with  a  sponge-off  in  warm  water  the 
intervening  day,  an  infant  will  do  much  better  than  when  bathed  daily. 

It  is  also  a  great  help  in  supplying  nourishment  where  the  mother  has 
not  sufficient  nurse,  and  aiils,  too,  in  preventing  the  little  colds,  snuffles, 
colic,  etc.,  that  hover  around  the  little  one  tlie  first  two  or  three  months, 
neiHiing  our  most  watchful  care  to  ward  them  oft  Then,  where  there  is 
any  constipation,  it  is  a  perfect  panacea — ^so  much  better  than  physic  or 
enemas.  It  act.s  as  a  preventive  to  croup;  and  when  a  child  is  weakened 
by  that  dread  disease,  cholera  infantum,  nothing  so  helps  to  give  tone  to 
the  system  as  the  oil-rub.  It  certainly  is  the  best  of  baby  medicines,  and 
a  baby  can  "grow  up"  without  any  other  remedy. 

Diphtheria. — This  dreaded  disease  needs  all  the  knowledge  one  can  pos- 
sibly obtain,  so  we  give  below  the  hygienic  treatment  as  prescribed  by 
Dr.  J.  H.  Jackson,  of  "Our  Home,"  Dansville,  N.  Y.  First,  he  says,  to 
tell  a  genuine  case,  make  a  swab  and  apply  to  the  patches  on  throat; 
common  ulcers  will  rub  off,  but  diphtheritic  patches  will  not  A  good 
gargle  is  to  make  a  solution,  as  strong  as  will  aissolve,  of  chlorate  of  po- 
tassa,  and  bottle  for  use.  When  needed,  take  in  proportion  of  one-half 
solution  and  one-half  {)ure  soft  water,  and  one-hali  grain  permanganate 
of  potash  to  ounce  of  mixture.  For  a  still  stronger  gargle,  take  two-thirds 
solution  to  one-third  water,  and  one-half  grain  permanganate  of  potash 
to  ounce  of  mixture.  In  a  case  of  diphtheria,  keep  the  room  at  80°.  and 
have  boiler  of  water  on  stove,  or  hang  wet  sheets  in  room,  in  order  to 
keep  the  room  saturated  with  warm  vapor,  and  also  have  fresh  air  in  the 
room.     His  treatment  is  as  follows: 

"  When  the  person  is  attacked,  in  cases  where  the  epidemic  is  present 
in  the  vicinity,  with  a  sore  throat,  pain  in  the  head,  in  limbs,  in  back- 
in  other  words,  the  symptoms  being  very  -much  like  those  of  a  hard  cold — 
I  begin  by  putting  the  person  at  once  into  a  hot  bath,  covering  him  up 
and  giving  him  warm  water  to  drink,  so  as  to  produce  a  thorough  sweat- 
ing, the  object  being  to  fight  febrile  conditions  and  establish  and  aid  proc- 
esses for  throwing  oflF  the  disease  by  means  of  the  skin,  bowels,  etc.  This 
sweating  is  all  the  more  necessary,  in  most  cases,  because  of  the  inatten- 
tion which  is  usually  given  to  keeping  the  pores  of  the  skin  open,  and 
it  will  relieve  the  fever,  if  not  at  once,  as  a  secondary  result.  After  the 
person  has  been  in  a  state  of  perspiration  for  some  time,  I  take  him  im- 
mediately from  the  hot  bath  and  give  him  a  thorough  washing  with  a 
sheet  wet  in  water  at  80  degrees,  in  a  warm  room,  and  after  wiping  see 
that  he  is  sent  to  bed  with  a  cool  cloth  upon  the  head,  and  in  many 
cases  an  abdominal  compress  wet  in  cool  watt^r,  which  shall  cover  entirely 
the  abdomen,  with  a  dry  flannel  cloth  over  it.  In  all  febrile  conditions  of 
the  body  this  application  of  the  cool  abdominal  compress  is  of  great  value, 
because  it  is  in  the  alxlomen  that  the  vital  processes  are  carried  on  to 
large  extent,  the  amount  of  blood  existing  there  being  much  larger  in 
proportion  to  the  surface  of  the  body  than  in  any  other  portion  of  the 
frame  except  the  brain.  In  order  to  keep  the  temperature  of  the  body 
down'  below  fever  heat,  that  the  fermentative  processes  may  not  go  on, 
or  be  held  in  check  as  far  as  possible,  it  is  necessary  to  u.se  with  caution 
all  the  best  means  for  the  purpose,  and  among  them  I  certainly  esteem 
the  abdominal  compress  as  of  great  use.  After  this,  and  in  addition  to 
it,  the  febrile  conditions  may  be  met  by  means  of  wet  sheet  packing  or 


MEDICAL.  651 

spongring  as  frequently  as  may  be  necessary,  to  keep  the  temperature  to 
its  normal  standard.  Of  course,  if  the  fever  is  not  high,  it  will  not  be 
necessary  to  make  strenuous  elforts  in  this  respect;  but  if  it  is,  it  should 
be  fought  sharuly.  The  great  need  is  to  make  the  applications  early  and 
vigorously  in  the  outset  of  the  disease,  because  the  enects  to  be  produced 
are  needed  then  more  than  at  any  other  time,  and  because  in  the  later 
days  or  stages  of  the  disease  attention  must  be  directed  to  measures  which 
support  the  strength  of  the  body  rather  than  those  which,  while  reducing 
fever,  tax  its  vitality  to  some  degree.  At  any  rate  watch  the  tempera- 
ture carefully,  and  keep  it  down.  Great  attention  should  be  paid  to  nour- 
ishing tlie  patient,  ana  the  best  article  for  this  pur{)Ose,  both  for  adults 
and  children,  is  milk,  taken  cool  or  warm,  as  the  patient  may  fancy,  and 
at  as  frequent  tinies  and  in  as  large  (quantities  as  can  be  borne.  To  tlii's  nuty 
be  added,  later  in  the  disease,  nutritious  soups  or  the  juice  of  meats;  but 
under  no  circumstances,  except  toward  the  very  last  stages  and  in  the  sep- 
tic form,  are  alcoholic  stimulants  admissible,  in  my  judgment.  The  bow- 
els should  be  kept  open  and  the  kidneys  active,  and  for  this  purpose 
enemas  should  be  given  to  effect  the  former  if  sluggish,  and  sitz-baths 
occasionally — perhaps  one  each  day — for  fifteen  minutes,  at  a  temperature 
of  85  or  90  degrees,  to  stimulate  the  latter.  The  feet  must  always  be  kept 
warm  and  the  head  cool,  and  in  case  there  is  any  tendency  to  collapse  or 
lowering  of  the  temperature  below  the  normal  standard,  heat  must  be 
applied  to  the  body  by  means  of  warm  blankets  and  hot  water  bags  and 
Jugs. 

"  In  addition  to  this  general  treatment,  treat  the  throat  direct  with  moist 
heat,  as  that  is  the  great  promoter  of  suppuration.    Hence,  us  soon  as  the 
membranes  are  formed,  or  as  soon  as  it  is  known  that  the  disease  is  diph- 
theria, the  patient  should  be  put  upon  the  inhalation  of  steam  as  hot  as 
can  be  borne,  and  as  often  as  may  be  wise,  considering  the  strength  of  the 
patient  and  the  severity  of  the  disease.    The  inhalations  ordinarily  should 
be  pursued  for  the  first  twenty-four  or  forty-eight  liours,  as  often  as  once 
in   each   half  hour,  and    continued  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  the  patient 
should  be  allowed  only  three  to  four  hours  of  sleep  each  day  during  tins 
period,  because  the  constant  presence  of  the  vapor  is  necessarj'  to  hurry  up 
the  suppurative  process,  and  the  earlier  tliis  can  be  produced  the  sooner 
the  case  will   recover.    These  inhalations  may  be  made  by  means  of  the 
common  steam  atomizer,  now  sold  by  all  dealers  in  surgical  and  medical 
instruments,  and  which  may  be  used  without  filling  the  njedicine  cup  ordi- 
narily, the  steam  being  taken  direot  from  the  boiler  through  the  mouth- 
piece.    If  this  is  not  convenient,  a  tea-kettle  with  a  long  conducting  spout, 
which  shall  carry  the  steam  to  the  mouth  of  the  patient,  or  any  apparatus 
which  shall  answer  this  same  purpose,  can  be  used.    The^  air  of  the  room 
may  be  saturate<l  with  warm  vapor  by  dropping  hot  stones  in  a  pail  of  water 
or  of  lime  water.     Care  must  be  taken  in  any  event  to  see  that  the  steam 
is  not  too  hot,  and  at  the  same  time  that  the  heat  is  as  great  as  can  be  well 
borne.    This  process  mav  be  aided  by  application  of  warn)  poultices  to  the 
neck.     A  long,  narrow  bag  may  be' filled  with  any  substance  which  will 
retain  moisture  and  heat  well,  and  the  neck  enveloped  in  it,  a  dry  flannel 
being  put  over  it,  and   this  changed  as  often  as   is  necessary  in  order  to 
maintain  the  warmth.    Thus  moist  heat  on  the  inside  and  moist  heat  on 
the  outside,  aids  to  establish  the  necessary  process  of  suppuration.     This 
con.stant  inhalation  should  be  kept  up  until  the  membranes  cease  to  spread, 
and  those  wliich  are  formed  become  well  marked  in  outline,  and  grow  yel- 
lowish or  a  dirty  pray  in  color,  and  seem  to  be  shriveled  or  wrinkled,  after 
which,  generally  about  the  third  day,  the  inhalations  mav  be  decreased  in 
frequency,  but  still  should  be  kept  up  as  often  as  every  liour  in  the  day- 
time, the  patient  being  allowed  six  or  eiiEjht  hours'  sleep  at  night,  until  the 
membranes  are  thrown  off  and  the  secretion  of  pus  ujx)n  the  mucous  mem- 
brane of  the  mouth  entirely  stopped.     The  constant  inhalation  of  steam 


652  MEDICAL. 

through  the  atomizer,  which  generates  it  with  some  force,  furnishes  a  means 
of  washing  the  parts  pretty  thoroughly." 

The  Vapor-Batu  is  one  of  the  most  efficacious  remedies  if  taken  when  a  cold 
is  first  realized.  It  is  given  by  seatine  the  patient,  undressed,  in  a  flag  or  cane 
seat  chair  under  which  is  a  saucer  of  alcohol  burning,  both  chair  and  patient 
being  perfectly  enveloped  in  a  blanket  reaching  to  the  floor.  In  a  few  min- 
utes profuse  perspiration  sets  in,  which  should  he  kept  up  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes. After  rubbing  dry,  the  patient,  still  wrapped  xn  the  blanket,  gets  into 
bed,  and  remains  there  for  an  hour  or  two  at  feast.  It  is  better  to  take  the 
bath  just  before  retiring.  This  remedy  is  better  than  all  drugs,  nostrums,  eta, 
for  a  cold,  but  vshould  be  taken  at  the  outset,  to  do  the  most  good. 

For  Diarrhea.— Stir  lightly  into  a  tea-cupful  cold  water  the  white  of  one 
egi?,  not  beaten.  This  forms  a  coating  on  the  stomach,  and  is  also  nourish- 
ing, and  is  good  in  any  disease  where  patient  can  not  eat.  Another  delicate 
S reparation  for  a  weak  stomach  is  slipi)ery«elm  gruel :  Mix  fine  slippery-elm 
our  with  cold  water,  then  stir  into  boiling  till  tnickness  of  gruel.  Charcoal 
crackers  are  of  great  value  in  assisting  digestion. 

In  this  disease,  the  most  important  item  is  absolute  quiet  on  a  bed.  Bits  of 
ice  may  be  eaten  and  swallowed  at  will,  but  drink  little  liquid  of  any  kind. 
If  compelled  to  be  on  the  feet,  bind  a  strong  piece  of  woolen  flannel  tightly 
around  the  abdomen,  having  it  doubled  in  front  For  diet,  use  rice  parched 
like  cofiee,  boiled  and  eaten  with  a  little  salt  and  butter.  Some  advise  mak- 
ing a  tea  of  it,  and  also  u.sing  boiled  milk  and  mutton  broth,  with  crisped 
white  crackers,  for  children. 

For  Dysentery  and  Diarrhea. — ^Use  ice-cold  enemas  after  each  movement 
of  the  bowels — a  tea-spoon  for  a  babe,  increasing  in  that  proportion  tUl,  for 
an  adult,  a  bulbful  is  given. 

For  Sore  Throat. — Rub  on  the  outside,  and  wet  cloth  in  Pond's  Extract, 
and  gargle  with  it  also,  taking  from  one  to  ten  drops  four  times  a  day.  An- 
other excellent  remedy  is  camphor  diluted  with  water  till  it  can  be  used  as  a 
gargle. 

Another  remedy  for  sore  throat  is  to  put  on  a  strip  of  flannel  thin  slices  of 
fat  pork,  and  snnnkle  very  thick  witli  black  pepper  and  place  around  throat; 
or  chop  fat  pork  and  onions  together,  about  half  and  half,  and  put  in  sack 
and  put  on ;  or  bathe  throat  with  coal  oil.  And  some  have  advised  taking 
some  of  the  latter  internally  in  cases  of  diphtheria;  also,  in  diphtheria,  some 
have  used  with  benefit  bits  of  ice  kept  constantly  in  the  mouth  for  as  long 
as  seven  hours;  or  gai^^le  with  lemon-juice,  occasionally  swallowing  some. 

Whooping-cough. — Children  do  not  "  whoop"  for  two  or  three  weeks  after 
taking  this  disease.  The  most  reliable  symntoms  are,  eyes  red  and  watery 
when  they  cough,  and  the  cough  clinging  to  tne  patient  with  a  firm  grasp.  It 
lasts  from  six  weeks  to  three  months,  according  to  season  when  taken,  and  can 
be  given  during  the  first  two  months.  It  is  not  carried  in  clothes,  but  when 
a  child  gets  the  breath  of  a  whooping-cough  patient  then  he  will  take  it 
Some  of  the  remedies  are,  to  give  drinks  of  water  as  hot  as  they  can  be  taken, 
in  the  evening  and  with  first  symptoms  of  a  cougliing  s])ell — this  makes  the 
couf?h  easier;  another  is,  to  take  scant  t^a-cup  whole  flax-seed,  wash  it  thor- 
oughly, add  one  lemon  sliced  and  quart  of  water,  simmer  gently  two  hours, 
add  two  table-spoons  of  honey,  then  strain  when  hot.  It  should  be  like  thick 
molasses;  if  too  thick,  add  water.  Give  one  table-six)onful  four  times  a  day, 
and  one  after  each  severe  fit  of  coughing.  (This  is  also  good  for  an  ordi- 
nary cold  and  cough.)  The  system  of  the  patient  needs  to  be  built  up,  and 
for  that  purpose  give  two  oil-baths  a  week ;  also  good,  nourishing  food,  such 
as  Graham  or  oatmeal  mush,  coarse  bread,  milk,  etc. ;  and  keep  child  out- 
doors as  much  as  possible,  using  great  care  no  cold  is  taken.  Some,  when 
the  breathing  is  very  bad,  put  a  hot  mustard  and  oatmeal  i)oultice  on  the 
chest.  In  cities,  a  daily  visit  to  the  gas  works  has  been  said  to  abate  the  vio- 
lence of  the  disease. 

Fob  Croup. — To  one-half  cup  N.  O.  molasses  add  a  tea-spoon  soda,  beat  to 


MEDICAL,  653 

a  white  froth,  and  give  a  tea-spoon  every  few  minutes  till  relieved  by  vomit- 
ing; or  one  port  pulverized  alum  to  two  parts  white  sugar,  and  s^ve  in  same 
way;  or  grease  a  cloth  (made  in  the  shape  of  a  bib)  thorougliTy  and  dust 
thicklv  witli  nutmeg,  and  put  on  over  throat  and  chest,  kec])ing  it  on  for 
several  days  after  the  child  is  well,  and  when  taken  oif  put  on  a  tlannel  cloth 
for  a  few  days,  and  then  some  morning  take  this  off  and  bathe  well  in  cold 
water  and  rub  dry;  or  take  four  or  five  hollyhock  blossoms,  boil,  and  apply 
wet  around  the  throat;  or  apply  hot  fomentations  to  the  throat  and  cnest, 
sponge  off  with  tepid  water,  rub  dry,  and  apply  oil  and  ammonia ;  or  some' 
apply  cold  wet  cloths  over  throat  and  chest,  covering  well  with  flannel, 
changing  often,  until  inflammation  is  subdued.  From  two  years  to  eight  is 
the  croupy  period ;  and  when  a  cold  assumes  croupy  symp'toins  great  care 
should  be  taken  to  keep  the  child  indoors,  in  a  warm,  well-ventilated  room, 
giving  Hght  food,  no  meats,  hot  bread,  or  berries.  (Raw  or  cooked  onions 
are  good  as  a  preventive  to  either  worms  or  croup.)  A  remedy,  said  to  give 
relief  where  other  means  fail,  is  to  let  a  healthy  person  fill  his  lungs  with  pure 
air,  then  slowly  breathe  upon  the  patient's  throat  and  chest,  commencing  at 
the  point  of  the  chin  and  moving  slowly  down  to  bottom  of  windpipe. 

Fob  Weak  Eyes. — Bathe  in  hot  water,  never  using  cold ;  and  neither  chil- 
dren nor  adults  should  use  water  below  50°  temperature  in  washing,  as  cold 
water  is  very  injurious  to  the  eyes. 

Fob  Sobeness  aitd  Pains. — Bathe  with  hot  alcohol ;  and  salt  is  often  added. 
The  use  of  alcohol  sponge-baths  after  confinement  is  almost  a  necessity. 

To  Habden  Nipples. — Bathe  with  a  preparation  of  one-half  ounce  liauid 
tannin  and  two  ounces  glycerine,  for  three  or  four  months  before  connne- 
ment,  once  or  twice  a  day. 

*  Fob  Sobe  Nipplbb.— Bathe  in  Pond's  Extract.  The  nipple  need  not  be 
washed  off  before  nursing.  Or  to  the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg  add  a  few 
drops  of  tannin,  mix  thoroughly,  and  bathe.    Make  fresh  every  day  or  two. 

Fob  Vabicose  Veins. — Wear  a  silk  elastic  stocking. 

Fob  Cold  in  the  Head.— Dilute  camphor  with  water  one-half  and  snuff  it 
np  the  nose. 

Fob  Chilblains. — ^Heat  lard  till  it  boils,  pour  it  on  ice  (it  turns  yellow), 
then  rub  it  on  the  feet  and  heat  it  in.  Another  for  broken  chilblains:  Melt 
together  one  ounce  resin,  one  and  a  half  ounces  beeswax,  and  three  ounces 
sweet  oil ;  take  off,  and  stir  in  gradually  one-half  ounce  prepared  carbonate 
of  lead  till  it  cools. 

Fob  Toothache  ob  Neubalqia. — Thicken  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  common 
salt  and  apply  as  a  poultice;  or  slice  raw  onions,  and  scatter  shaved  hard 
soap  over  them  and  apply. 

cThapped  Hands  and  Lips.— Four  parts  glycerine  to  one  part  simple  tinct- 
ure of  benzoin.    The  latter  is  very  healing. 

SuBE  Cube  fob  Cobns.— Take  one-fourth  cup  of  strong  vinegar,  crumb 
finely  into  it  some  bread.  Let  stand  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  softens  into  a 
good  poultice.  Then  apply,  on  retiring  at  night.  In  the  morning  the  sore- 
ness will  be  gone,  and  the  com  can  be  picked  out.  If  the  corn  is  a  very  ob- 
stinate one,  it  may  require  two  or  more  applications  to  effect  a  cure. 

Itch  Ointment. — ^Two  table-spoons  lard,  one  of  black  pepper,  one  of  ground 
mustard;  boil  all  together,  and  when  taken  off  and  nearly  cold  add  one  table- 
spoon sulphur.  Anoint  with  this  three  evenings  successively  just  before  go- 
ing to  bea.  Do  not  change  bed  clothes  or  wearing  clothes  during  the  time. 
After  this,  wash  with  castile  soap  suds,  and  change  all  the  clothing  that  has 
been  worn  or  touched. 

Choleba  Mixtube.— Take  one  ounce  each  of  the  following  ingredients: 
tincture  opium,  capsicum  or  red  pepper,  rhubarb,  peppermint  and  camphor; 
put  in  large  bottle,  with  a  pint  best  orandy.  Dose  is  ten  to  twenty  drops  in 
two  or  three  tea-spoons  water.    Good  in  any  case  of  diarrhea. 

Constipation.— Two  ounces  of  senna,  simmer  the  strength  out  m  one  quart 
of  water,  strain  the  tea ;  one  pound  of  prunes,  cooked  soft,  with  half  tea-cup 


654  MEDICAL, 

of  white  sugar.     Several  times  a  day  take,  first,  one  table-spoon  of  the  senna 
tea,  then  eut  one  prune,  fasting  as  much  as  poMsible. 

Sure  Cire  for  Cholera  Infantum. — One  ounce  pulverized  rhubarb,  one 
ounce  peppermint  herb,  one  ounce  soda.  Pour  one  pint  of  lx>ilinp  water  on 
tliese  three  and  let  stand  on  the  hearth  two  hours.  Strain,  and  add  one  pint 
best  brandy,  one-half  pound  best  white  sugar,  and  one  ounce  paregoric. 
Dose — one  tea-sjxion  every  half  hour  until  the  discharge  shows  the  color  of 
the  medicine ;  then  only  every  three  or  four  hours.  Good  also  for  adults,  in 
diarrliea.    Tiiis  is  the  allopathic  treatment. 

(lOLDEN  O1NT.MENT. — One  pound  lard,  eight  ounces  beeswax,  one  ounce  cam- 
phor gum  in  five  ounces  alcohol,  one  ounce  origanum,  one  ounce  laudanum; 
let  all  tlissolve  while  melting  tiie  lard  and  beeswax,  then  stir  together  until 
cold,  or  the  camphor  will  go  off  in  a  steam.  Do  not  mix  too  hot.  This  will 
cure  pain  in  the  side  by  a]>plying  as  a  plaster.  For  enlarged  neck  or  goitre, 
dilute  with  one-fourth  i(Khn'e.  For  salt-rheum,  apply  externally,  and  take 
cathartics  to  cleanse  the  blood.  For  scald-head,  rub  together  one  ounce  golden 
ointment  and  three  drachms  of  red  precipitate;  remove  the  hair  and  rub  with 
this  twice  a  day,  each  day  washing  with  castile  soap  suds.  For  catarrh,  rub 
the  ointment  up  in  the  nose  profusely,  and  let  it  remain  all  night.  In  the 
morning  draw  cold  water  up  the  nose  and  throw  it  back  two  or  three  times 
to  clean  tlie  tubernated  bones.    Also  bathe  the  face  and  ears  with  cold  water. 

Chronic  Infl.vmmation  of  the  Stomach. — This  is  known  by  a  pain  in  the 
stomach,  increased  by  the  presence  of  food,  by  belching  up  gas,  by  vomiting, 
fickle  appetite,  seasons  of  thirst,  tongue  white  in  the  center  and  red  at  tip, 
or  sometmies  red  and  smooth — is  a  di.scase  which  soon  ends  in  ulceration 
of  stomach,  and  death.  Counter-irritants  over  the  stomach,  such  as  mustard 
draughts,  followed  by  hot  fomentations  of  hops;  frequent  warm  or  cool  baths, 
according  to  patient's  constitution ;  a  tepid  compress  worn  over  the  stdTnach 
at  night;  and  the  most  careful  diet,  consisting  mostly  of  gum  water,  rice 
water,  slippery-elm  water  and  gruel,  arrowroot  gruel,  toast  without  butter, 
gluten  mush,  etc,  and  in  two  or  three  weeks  the  disease  will  yield  under 
this  persistent  starving  and  cooling  system. 

Blistered  Feet. — To  cure  blistered  feet  from  long  walking,  rub  the  feet* 
at  going  to  bed,  with  spirits  mixed  with  tallow. 

Frosted  Feet. — To  relieve  the  intense  itching  of  frosted  feet,  dissolve  a 
lump  of  alum  in  a  little  water  and  bathe  the  part  with  it,  warming  it  before 
the  fire.     One  or  two  applications  are  sure  to  give  relief. 

For  a  Felon. — Take  equal  parts  of  gum  camphor,  opium,  castile  soap,  brown 
sugar;  wet  to  a  paste  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  apply  like  a  salve.  Those 
who  have  tried  it  say  it  is  an  invaluable  remedy.  Or  take  common  rock-salt, 
such  as  is  used  in  salting  down  beef  or  pork,  and  mix  with  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine in  equal  parts,  and  as  it  gets  dry  put  on  more,  and  in  twenty-four  hours 
you  are  cured.  Or,  when  you  fear  afelon  is  coming,  put  a  pint  tin  of  boiling 
water  on  the  stove ;  then  add  to  that  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  and  a  wine- 
glass of  vinegar;  heat  this  every  little  while,  say  from  half  an  hour  to  an 
hour,  and  hold  your  finger  in  it  till  the  pain  sui)sides;  repeat  this  till  you 
see  all  the  matter  drawn  to  one  place;  then  have  it  opened,  and  your  finger 
will  heal.  After  a  felon  has  been  lanced,  apply  a  poultice  of  equal  parts  of 
flaxseed  and  slippery -elm  flour  to  take  out  inflammation. 

Fever  and  Ague. — This,  the  true  intermittent  fever,  comes  on  with  an 
ague-fit,  which  has  three  stages — the  cold,  the  hot,  and  the  sweating.  In 
the  first  stage,  the  patient  yawns,  stretches,  feels  weak,  has  no  appetite,  and 
does  not  wish  to  move.  The  face  and  extremities  become  pale,  the  skin 
shrinks,  and  is  covered  with  gobse-flesh;  the  patient  shakes,  and  his  teeth 
chatter.  Then,  after  a  time,  these  symptoms  decline,  and  the  patient's  fev^er 
comes  on  very  violently,  and  with  various  uncomfortable  sensations.  As  the 
fever  passes  off,  the  sweating  stage  comes  on,  when  the  perspiration  is  gen- 
erally profuse;  the  body  returns  to  its  natural  temperature,  the  pains  and 
aches  vanish,  and  a  feeling  of  health  comes  back,  and  generally  a  voracious 


MEDICAL.  655 

appetite.  There  is  not  much  regularity  in  the  time  of  coming  on  or  going 
off  of  the  ague-fits,  though  usually  they  are  a  little  later  each  day  in  appear- 
ing. J'l  this  disease  the  spleen  is  very  much  oppressed  with  olood  driven  in 
from  the  surface,  and  often  becomes  so  much  enlarged  as  to  be  plainly  felt 
by  the  hand.  This  is  a  malarious  disease.  The  bowels  may  be  opened  with 
a  gentle  physic,  such  as  salts  and  senna.  In  the  cold  stage,  give  hot  and 
stimulating  drinks,  use  foot-baths,  hot  bottles,  etc.,  and  try  every  expedient 
to  promote  warmth.  In  the  hot  stage,  give  cooling  drinks,  and  administer  qui- 
nine mixture,  as  the  following:  quinine,  one  scruple;  alcohol,  four  ounces; 
sulphuric  acid,  five  drops.  Mix.  Give  a  tea-spoonful  every  half  hour  dur- 
ing the  fever,  at  the  same  time  giving  five-drop  doses  of  veratrum  veride 
every  hour.  When  the  sweating  stage  comes  on,  stop  the  veratrum,  and  rub 
the  patient  with  dry  towels.  In  the  intermission  give  quinine.  In  mild 
cases,  other  tonics  than  (quinine  often  effect  a  cure.  The  nursin(^  of  the  pa- 
tient, and  bathing,  sweating  and  rubbing  are  the  most  important  part  of  the 
treatment,  in  this,  as  in  most  other  diseases.  In  ague  districts,  the  hot  sun 
and  evening  air  are  to  be  avoided. 

Or  take  two  ounces  of  gum  camphor  and  inclose  it  in  a  flannel  bag  about 
four  or  five  inches  square.  Suspend  the  bag  over  the  pit  of  the  stomach  by 
the  means  of  a  cord  around  the  neck,  and  a  speedy  cure  will  be  effected. 
When  the  camphor  is  dissolved  the  ague  is  gone.  German  physicians,  as 
appears  from  medical  journals,  have  found  a  tincture  of  the  leaves  of  the 
Eucalyptus  globulus,  or  Australian  gum-tree,  to  be  a  remedy  for  intermit- 
tent fever,  Dr.  Lorimer  gave  it  to  fifty-three  patients,  of  whom  forty-three 
were  completely  cured.  The  ordinary  sunflower,  if  planted  around  a  house, 
will  free  the  atmosphere  from  the  animal  and  vegetable  germs  supposed  to 
contain  the  miasma  productive  of  fever  and  ague. 

Bilious  Remfttent  Fever. — This  makes  its  attack  in  a  sudden  and  marked 
manner.  There  are  no  premonitory  symptoms  except,  perhaps,  a  little  lan- 
guor and  debility,  slight  headache,  and  a  oad  taste  in  the  mouth,  sometimes 
some  {)ain  in  the  joints.  Its  commencement  is  with  a  chill,  sometimes  slight, 
sometimes  severe  and  prolonged.  The  chill  may  begin  in  the  feet,  or  shoul- 
ders, or  back,  running  thence  like  streams  of  cold  water.  There  is  seldom 
more  than  this  one  chill,  the  fever  coming  on  afterward  without  the  cold 
stage.  At  certain  periods  of  the  day  there  is  greater  intensity  of  the  symp- 
toms, and  possibly  the  chill,  though  probably  not.  Between  these  periods  of 
increased  fever  the  disease  seems  to  decrease,  though  there  is  still  some  fever. 
TTnlike  fever  and  ague,  it  does  not  go  entirely  off.  During  the  hot  stage  the 
pulse  is  up  to  120,  or  still  higher,  and  there  are  pains  in  tlie  head,  back  and 
limbs,  of  the  most  distressing  kind.  The  tongue  is  covered  with  a  yellowish 
fur,  and,  in  bad  ca^es,  is  parched,  brown  or  almost  black  in  the  center,  and 
red  at  the  edges.  The  appetite  is  gone,  and  there. is  generally  nausea  and 
vomiting,  and  pain  or  tenderness  in  the  upper  part  of  the  bowels.  At  first 
there  is  costiveness,  but  afterward  the  bowels  become  loose,  and  the  evacua- 
tions are  dark  and  offensive.  This  disease  is  produced  by  malaria,  and  pre- 
vails in  hot  climates,  and  in  our  summer  and  autumn.  In  the  verv  beginning 
the  disease  may  be  arrested  by  an  emetic  of  lobelia  or  Ipecac,  follow^ed  by  a 
mild  cathartic.  But  if  the  disease  is  fully  developed,  sj)0nge  the  body  all 
over  several  times  a  day  with  water,  and  give  cooling  drinks,  such  as  cream 
<artar,  two  scruples,  in  a  quart  of  water,  lemonade,  etc.  To  allay  the  fever, 
give  tincture  of  veratrum  viride  in  ten-drop  doses.  Cold  water  and  ice  may 
oe  given  the  ]>atient,  if  desired.  Cool  the  head,  when  it  aches,  with  cold  ap- 
plications, and  put  a  mustard  poultice  on  the  stomach  if  tender.  During 
the  remi.ssiolis  between  the  fever,  quinine  and  other  tonics  must  be  given,  as 
in  fever  and  ague. 

Congestive  Fever. — Another  form  of  malarious  fever  is  the  congestive. 
It  may  be  either  remittent — that  is,  abating  considerably;  or  intermittent — 
that  is'  having  intervals  of  entire  freedom  from  fever.  It  may  have  intervals bf 
twenty-four  or  of  forty-eight  hours.   The  first  attack  does  not  differ  from  that 


656  MEDICAL. 

of  a  simple  intermittent,  and  may  excite  but  little  attention ;  but  the  second  is 
always  severe,  producing  great  coldness,  and  a  death-like  hue  of  the  face  and 
extremities.  The  advancement  of  the  disease  brings  dry,  husky,  parclied, 
and  pungently  hot  skin,  followed  after  a  time  by  a  cold,' clammy  sensation. 
The  eyes  are  dull,  watery,  and  sometiiues  glassy;  the  countenance  dull, 
sleepy,  distressed ;  the  tongue,  at  first  white,  <*hanges  to  brown  or  black,  and 
is  usually  tremulous ;  theoreathing  is  hurried  and  diflficult.  Pressure  over 
the  liver,  stomach  or  bowels,  produces  pain.  The  mind  is  often  dL«turl>ed, 
and  falls  into  lethargy  and  stupor,  or  is  delirious.  The  treatment  should  be 
nearly  the  same  as  in  bilious  remittent.  While  convalescing,  the  diet  must 
be  light  and  nutritious  at  first,  increasing  in  quantity  as  the  strength  returns. 
Use  a  mild  tonic  if  the  patient  is  weak.  Exercise  out  of  doors  must  not  be 
neglected. 

Hay  Pkveb  (or  Asthma). — This  very  peculiar  dise^e  api>ears  ccnerally  as 
a  severe  attack  of  catarrh,  with  asthmatic  svmptoms  superadded.  The  lin- 
ing membrane  of  the  eyes,  nose,  throat  and  lungs  is  all  more  or  less  atTecte*!. 
The  i)atient  suffers  from  headache,  sometimes  severe,  sneezinj?,  irritation  of 
the  nose  and  throat,  with  a  dry,  harassing  cough.  The  asthmatic  attacks  come 
on  generallv  towards  evening,  and  last  from  one  to  three  hours,  cau.sing  great 
distress.  liay  fever  is  not  a  very  common  complaint,  and  only  attacks  tiiose 
persons  who,  from  some  peculiarity  of  constitution,  are  susceptible  to  tlie 
causes  producing  it.  It  is  supixised  to  be  caus<Hi  by  the  inhalation  of  the 
pungent  aroma  of  spring  grass  and  hay;  but  the  inhalation  of  the  |)Owder  of 
ipccacuanlia  will  ah^o  produce  it  in  certain  individuals.  In  the  United  States, 
where  the  rose  is  largely  cultivated,  similar  attacks  sometimes  occur;  it  is 
then  called  rose  fever  or  rose  catarrh.  The  best  treatment  is  change  of  air — 
to  the  sea-side,  if  }K)ssible.  During  the  attacks  antispasmodics,  such  as  sal 
volatile,  ether,  or  an  emetic  if  the  i)atient  is  able  to  bear  it,  inhalations  of  hot 
steam  meilicated  with  oret^sote,  carbolic  acid,  or  turpentine,  will  be  found 
useful.  When  the  attack  passes  off,  the  general  health  should  be  improved 
by  tonics,  diet,  etc. 

TvPHOin  Fkver. — Typhoid  fever  is  generally  preceded  by  several  days  of 
languor,  low  spirits,  and  indisixwition  to  exertion.  There  is  also,  usually, 
some  i»iun  in  tne  back  and  heaa,  loss  of  appetite,  and  drowsiness,  thotigli  not 
rest.  The  di>e}ise  ^hows  it.'^elf  by  a  chill.  During  the  first  week  there  is  in- 
iTea^ed  heat  of  the  surfai^e.  frequent  pulse,  furrtnl  tongue,  restlessness  and 
>leeplt»ssness,  headache  ami  pain  in  the  back  ;  sometimes  diarrhea  and  swell- 
ing of  the  belly,  and  sometimes  nausea  and  vomiting.  The  second  week  is 
bitten  distinguished  by  small,  ra'<e-ct>lore<l  si>«>ts  on  tne  belly,  and  a  crop  of 
little  watery  pimples  on  the  neck  and  chest,  having  the  appearance  of  mi- 
nute dri>ps'of  Mweat ;  the  tongue  is  drv  and  black,  or  red  and  sore;  the  teeth 
ari»  foul ;  there  may  be  delirium  and  (dullness  of  hearing:  and  the  symptoms 
every  way  are  more  serious  than  during  the  first  week.  Occasionally  the 
bowels  are  at  this  peri<-Hl  perforatetl  or  ate  thnmgh  by  ulceration,  and  the 
(mtient  ^uddenly  sinks.  If  the  disease  proceeds  unfavorably  into  the  third 
week,  there  is  low,  muttering  delirium,  great  exhaustion,  sliding  down  of 
the  patient  lowanl  the  f<x>t  of  the  bed,  twitching  of  the  muscles,  bleeding 
from  the  bowels,  and  re<l  or  purple  spots  upon  the  skin.  If,  on  the  other 
Iiand,  the  i>a»ient  impn>ves,  the  countenance  origb tens  up,  the  pulse  moder- 
ates, the  ttmgue  deans,  and  the  dist^harges  look  healthy.  Give  the  patient 
go<Hl  air,  and  frequeiU  siK>ngings  with  water,  cold  or  tepid,  as  roost  agree- 
able. Keep  the  Newels  in  order,  and  be  more  afraid  of  diarrhea  than  cost- 
ive ne;«i.  Diarrhea  should  be  re5«trained  by  injection  of  cold  water.  For 
o»stiveness»  give  mild  injections,  made  slightly  loosening  by  castor  oil  or 
tN^nimon  molassea  To  keep  down  the  fever  and  produce  perspiration,  give 
tincture  of  veratrum  viride.  ten  drops  every  hour.  If  the  bowels  are  swelled, 
rolieve  them  by  liot  fomentation  of  hops  and  vinegar.  If  the  pain  in  the 
head  is  verv  severe  and  ct"»nstant,  let  tne  hair  be  cut  short  and  the  head 
UiiluHi  frequent  I V  with  cold  water.    Give  light  nourishment,  such  as  milk 


MEDICAL.  657 

«t<^. ;  and  if  the  debility  is  great,  broth  will  be  needed.  Cleanse  the  mouth 
with  very  weak  tea— old  hyson.  If  the  fever  runs  a  low  course,  and  the  pa- 
tient is  very  weak,  quinine  may  be  g^ven  from  the  beginning.  Constant  care 
And  good  nursing  are  very  important. 

Typhus  fever  is  distinguished  from  typhoid  by  there  being  no  marked  dis- 
ecuse  of  the  bowels  in  typhus.  The  patient  must  be  placed  in  a  large,  well- 
ventilated  room,  where  drafts  may  oe  avoided ;  he  should  have  his  bed  so 
situated  that  the  light  from  a  window  will  not  fall  upon  his  face,  as  this 
is  annoying;  all  curtains,  carpets,  and  bed-hangings  should  be  at  once  re- 
moved; the  bed  should  not  be  too  soft,  and  a  mackintosh  or  india-rubber 
sheet  should  be  placed  under  the  patient.  He  should  not  be  allowed  to  ex- 
ert himself  in  any  way,  as  it  is  absolutely  necestiary  that  he  husband  all  his 
strength.  The  greatest  cleanliness  must  be  observed,  and  all  excreta  removed 
at  once,  and  carbolic  acid  or  chloride  of  lime  should  be  mixed  with  them ;  soiled 
linen  should  be  put  into  a  tub  containing  some  carbolic  acid.  Bed-sores  are 
very  liable  to  form  on  the  back,  and  so  the  nurse  must  always  be  on  the  look- 
out and  try  to  prevent  them  by  smoothing  the  sheets,  drying  the  patient,  and 
rubbing  brandy  and  balsam  of  Peru  over  the  part ;  better  still  to  have  a  wa- 
ter cushion  or  water  bed.  The  skin  may  be  S{ionged  down  with  tepid  water, 
one  part  being  sponged  at  a  time,  so  as  to  prevent  any  undue  chill  of  the 
surface  from  exposure ;  this  relieves  the  patient  and  partly  counteracts  that 
disagreeable  smell  which  the  skin  gives  off  in  typhus  cases.  None  but  the 
nurse  and  doctor  should  see  the  patient;  all  noises  must  be  stopped,  and 
jierfect  quiet  enjoined ;  at  night  there  may  be  a  small  light  in  the  room,  but 
so  placed  as  not  to  disturb  the  patient  Milk  must  be  the  chief  article  of  diet, 
and  is  best  given  cold ;  an  eg^  or  two  may  be  beaten  up  in  it,  and  three  or  four 
pints  of  milk  may  be  given  m  the  twenty-four  hours;  this  must  be  done  at 
regular  intervals  of  two  hours,  in  equal  quantities,  special  care  being  taken 
that  it  is  given  at  night  and  in  the  early  morning,  when  prostration  is  great- 
est. Beef-tea  and  broths,  jellies,  extract  of  beef,  custards,  etc.,  may  be  given 
if  the  patient  can  take  them  and  wants  them.  For  drinks  in  the  early  stage, 
lemonade,  cold  tea,  or  soda-water  may  be  given,  but  do  not  let  him  have  too 
much  effervescent  drinks ;  in  bad  cases  the  nurse  will  have  plenty  to  do  to 
get  the  milk  down.  Stimulants  are  very  useful,  but  the  quantity  must  vary 
with  each  case,  and  be  left  to  the  doctor's  judgment.  Brandy  is  the  best 
stimulant,  and  may  be  given  with  iced  milk ;  too  much  must  not  be  g^iven  at 
first,  as  it  causes  oppression  and  inability  to  take  nutrient  food;  but  after- 
wards, in  the  stage  of  great  prostration,  its  proper  and  careful  administration 
tnay  save  the  patient's  life. 

Yeli/>w  Fever. — This  disease  is  most  prevalent  in  hot  climates,  and  south- 
em  cities  of  our  country.  It  comes  in  the  latter  part  of  summer,  and  lasts 
till  fro.sty  weather.  The  disease  begins  with  a  chill,  generally  not  very  se- 
vere. Following  the  chill,  there  is  moderate  fever,  and  some  heat  of  the 
surface;  but  this  rarelv  rises  to  any  great  height,  and  only  continues  to  the 
second  or  third  day,  when,  in  fatal  cases,  it  gives  place  to  coldness  of  surface, 
etc.  In  many  cases  there  is  sweating.  The  pulse  is  peculiar,  not  often  over 
a  hundred,  but  feeling  like  a  bubble  under  the  finger,  which  breaks  and  van- 
ishes before  it  can  be  fairly  felt.  The  tongue  is  moist  and  white  in  the  first 
and  second  days;  but  red,  smooth,  shining  and  dry  as  the  disease  advances 
toward  the  close,  having  a  dry,  black  streak  in  (he  middle.  The  most  strik- 
ing symptoms  are  nausea  and  vomiting,  which,  in  fatal  cases,  is  very  per- 
sistent ;  and  toward  the  last  a  yellowish  or  greenish  matter  is  thrown  up, 
followed  by  a  discharge  of  thin  black  fluid,  which  is  called  the  black  vdinit. 
The  lK)wels  are  generally  costive,  with  tenderness  in  the  upper  bowels  or 
iJtoniarh.  There  is  generally  severe  headache,  and  a  peculiar  expression  of 
face,  in  which  the  lips  smile,  while  the  rest  of  the  face  is  fixed  and  sad, 
sometimes  wild.  The  patient  continues  wakeful  night  and  day.  There  are 
discharges  of  blood,  often  from  the  nose,  the  gums,  the  ears,  the  stomach, 
tlie  bowels,  and  the  urinary  passages.    First  move  the  bowels  with  some 


658  MEDICAL, 

mild  physic,  such  as  sweet  tincture  of  rhubarb,  four  ounces;  bicarbonate  of 
8oda,  two  drachms.  Mix.  Give  a  table-8{K)onfuI  once  in  three  lionrs  until  it 
operates.  During  the  chill,  use  all  tlie  usual  means  of  warming  the  bo<Iy — by 
hot  bottles,  mustard  foot-bath,  warm  drinks,  draughts,  etc.  A  warm  poultice 
on  the  stomach  is  useful — some  would  advise  cupping.  During  the  Siecond, 
or  rnlm  stage,  give  gentle  stimulants,  warm  drinks,  and  tiveMlrop  doses  of 
veratrum  viride,  also  quinine.  In  the  third  stage,  brandy,  t|uinine,  and  all 
stimulants  freely.  To  quiet  the  vomiting,  give  of  this  preparation:  creo- 
sote, twenty  drops;  spirits  of  mindererus,  six  oimces;  and  alcohol  enough 
to  dissolve  the  creosote.     Do^e — half  an  ounce,  every  two  hours. 

Temperance,  cleanliness,  and  all  good  habits,  do  much  to  i>revent  this  dis- 
ease. A  French  physician  asserts  that  liahilitv  to  yellow  fever  is  prevented 
by  drinking  onlv  lx)lle<l  water.  He  believes  that  the  fever  is  the  exclusive 
result  of  using  corrupted  water,  and  that,  if  one  is  attacked  by  it,  he  may  be 
cured  in  a  few  hours  bv  drinking  large  quantities  of  boiled  water.  Many  of 
our  best  authorities  believe  that  infusoria  is  the  cause  of  the  disease. 

Food  por  Babies.— Mix  a  babe's  food  milk  with  its  due  proportion  of  sugar, 
and  place  the  pitcher  holding  it  in  a  deep  plate— a  soup-plate  or  pie-dish  will 
do— and  fill  the  plate  with  cold  water.     Take  a  piece  of  thin  muslin,  lai^ge 
enough  to  cover  wie  whole  pitcher  and  reach  down  all  sides  into  the  water. 
Have  no  cover  on  the  pitcher,  wet  the  cloth  and  cover  the  pitcher  with  it; 
put  its  ends  into  the  water,  and  set  the  whole  into  a  place  where  a  draft  of 
air  will  pass  over  it.     A  mother  tried  the  plan,  and  during  an  exceedingly 
hot  summer,  through  the  most  sultry  days  and  nights  of  a  long  season,  the 
milk  never  turned  at  all.    The  rationale  of  the  thing  is  easy.    The  milk  is 
not  confined  in  a  close  vessel,  or  in  danger  of  being  tainted  by  nearness  to 
other,  perhaps  not  wholesome  food ;  the  thin  gauze  protects  it,"^  yet  leaves  it 
open ;  the  draft  of  air  keeps  the  temperature  down  by  the  constant  evapora- 
tion, while  the  water  is  constantly  sucked  up  by  the  cloth,  acting  like  a  wick 
in  a  lamp,  to  supply  the  moisture. 

Headaches. — ^Headaches  are  always  symptoms  of  some  derangement  of  the 
system  in  some  of  its  parts,  and  should  not  be  neglected.  In  cliildren,  they 
generally  indicate  the  approach  of  some  disease.  In  adults,  they  are  occa- 
sioned frequently  by  a  bad  circulation,  impaired  digestion,  and  by  affections 
of  the  nerves.  For  the  first,  active  exercise  and  a  slight  physic  are  only  nec- 
essary; for  the  second,  light  diet,  with  exercise  and  a  dose  of  some  bitter 
alkali  after  meals;  and  for  the  third,  the  same  treatment  as  for  neuralgia, 
being  careful  about  the  diet.  Sometimes  a  patient  is  subject  to  rheumatic 
headache,  which  may  be  treated  with  warm  fomentations,  stimulating  lini- 
ment, and  a  gentle  physic.  The  patient  should  dress  warmly,  and  avoid  ex- 
posure to  cold  and  wet  feet. 

A  doctor  in  Paris  has  published  a  new  remedy  for  headaches.  He  uses  a 
mixture  of  ice  and  salt,  m  proportion  of  one  to  one-half,  as  a  cold  mixture, 
and  this  he  applies  by  means  of  a  little  purse  of  silk  gauze,  \*ith  a  rim  of 
gutta  j>ercha,  to  limited  spots  on  the  head  when  rheumatic  headaches  are 
lelt.  It  gives  instantaneous  relief.  The  skin  is  subjected  to  the  process  from 
half  a  minute  to  one  and  a  half  minutes,  and  is  rpndered  hard  and  white  by 
the  application. — 2.  Put  a  handful  of  salt  into  a  quart  of  water,  add  one 
ounce  of  .spirits  of  hartshorn  and  half  an  ounce  of  camphorated  spirits  of 
wine.  Put  them  quickly  into  a  bottle,  and  cork  tightly  to  prevent  the  esca|ie 
of  the  Hi>irit  8oaK  a  piece  of  rag  with  the  mixture,  and  apply  it  to  the  head; 
wet  the  rag  afresh  as  soon  as  it  gets  heated. — 3.  It  is  stated  that  two  tea-spoons 
of  finely-powdered  charcoal,  drank  in  half  a  tumbler  of  water,  will,  in  less 
than  fifteen  minutes,  give  relief  to  the  sick  headache  when  cau.sed,  as  in  most 
cases  it  is,  by  superabundance  of  acid  on  the  stomach.  We  have  tried  this 
remedy  time  ana  again,  and  its  efficacy  in  every  instance  has  been  signally 
satisfactory. 

Palpitation  of  Heart. — Palpitation  and  irregular  action  of  the  heart  are 
often  experienced  in  persons  between  the  ages  of  sixteen  and  twenty  years; 


MEDICAL.  659 

they  are,  or  have  generally  been,  growing  rapidly,  are  of  delicate  appearance, 
.and  frequently  are  addicted  to  some  vicions  habits.  In  such  persons  the 
blood  is  thin  and  poor,  and  the  heart  and  nerves  fail  to  perforin  their  proper 
function  for  want  of  support.  Derangement  of  the  stomach  often  gives  rise 
4o  these  svmptoms,  and  they  may  persist  for  a  long  period  from  this  cause. 
A  lady  who  for  years  suffered  from  violent  paroxysms  of  palpitation,  which 
many  physicians  attributed  to  organic  disease  of  the  heart,  happened  on  one 
<K-casion  to  take  some  medicine  which  induced  vomiting,  ana  this  act  was 
followed  by  immediate  recovery.  Subsequently,  whenever  she  had  the  symp- 
toms of  an  approaching  attack  of  palpitation,  she  resorted  to  an  emetic,  which 
not  only  gave  relief  to  the  paroxysm,  but  finally  relieved  her  altogether.  In 
another  case,  a  patient  entered  a  hospital,  suffering  severely  from  violent  ac- 
tion of  the  heart ;  he  was  bled  and  blistered  and  purged,  without  benefit ; 
having  taken  a  large  dose  of  medicine,  vomiting  ensued,  with  immediate  and 
permanent  relief. 

Tea,  and  especially  green  tea,  is  very  liable  to  disturb  the  heart's  action 
•when  used  by  susceptible  persons.  Aiid  there  is  no  doubt  that  an  immense 
number  of  persons  m  every  community  suffer  from  minor  forms  of  heart 
•derangement,  due  to  the  use  of  tea. 

Tobacco,  either  smoked  or  chewed,  invariably  affects  the  heart's  action,  and 
produces  irregularity  and  palpitation. 

Jaundice. — A  disease  characterized  by  yellowness  of  the  skin  and  eyes  and 
urine,  the  discharges  from  the  bowels  being  of  a  whitish  or  clay  color.  It  is 
caused  hy  the  excretion  of  bile  being  prevented  and  retained  in  the  blood,  or 
reabsorbed  and  diffused  through  the  system.  It  depends  upon  various  and 
-different  internal  causes.  Pregnant  women  frequently  suffer  from  it.  Any 
kind  of  pressure  upon  the  excretory  ducts,  such  as  by  tumors,  etc.,  or  the  ducts 
being  filled  up  with  mucus,  inspissated  bile,  or  biliary  calculus  will  occasion 
it.  It  may  also  occur  as  a  symptom  of  chronic  or  acute  inflammation  of  the 
liver.  Fits  of  anger,  fear  or  alarm  have  sometimes  been  directly  followed  by 
an  attack  of  jaundice.  And,  lastly,  certain  forms  of  it  are  produced  occa- 
fiionally  by  long-continued  hot  weather.  An  attack  of  the  jaundice  is  usu- 
ally preceded  by  symptoms  of  a  disordered  state  of  the  liver  and  digestive 
organs,  loss  of  appetite,  irregular  or  constipated  bowels,  colic,  nausea,  head- 
ache, languor,  etc.  Sooner  or  later  the  yellow  color  begins  to  appear,  usually 
first  in  the  eye,  then  in  the  face,  then  on  the  chest,  and  finally  covering  the 
■whole  body.  Sometimes  the  yellowness  is  the  first  symptom ;  and  again,  as 
noon  as  the  yellow  stage  is  reached  many  of  the  prelimmary  symptoms  di- 
minish. The  shades  of  yellowness  are  various— from  a  light  j^elfow  to  a  deep 
orange  hue,  and,  in  some  cases,  of  a  greenish  or  even  a  blackish  color.  In 
the  latter  cases  it  is  known  as  "black  jaundice."  The  greenish  or  darkish 
varieties  are  considered  most  dangerous. 

Sonio  kinds  of  jaundice  are  absolutely  irremediable,  while  others  will  pass 
off  without  any  treatment.  If  the  patient  be  young,  and  the  disease  compli- 
cated with  no  other  malady,  it  is  seldom  dangerous;  but  in  old  people,  where 
it  continues  long,  returns  frequently,  or  is  complicated  with  dropsy  or  other 
dweases,  the  condition  upon  which  it  depends  generally  leads  to  a  fatal  re- 
sult. In  general,  the  obvious  treatment  is  to  promote  secretion  of  the  bile 
and  to  favor  its  removal.  In  ordinary  cases,  a  strong  infusion  of  rhubarb 
root  taken  freely,  so  as  to  keep  up  a  laxative  action,  without  active  nurging 
or  vomiting;  a  cool,  light,  ana  laxative  diet  (such  as  T\\yQ  fruits,  mild  vege- 
tables, chicken  and  veal  broth,  new  eggs,  stewed  prunes,  and  buttermilk); 
free  ventilation,  and  hot  fomentations  twice  a  dav,  for  half  an  hour,  over 
the  liver,  in  case  of  torj>or  and  obstruction ;  or  Qo\h  cloths,  in  case  of  exces- 
sive production  of  bile,  will  usually  effect  a  cure.  Some  prescribed  an  infu- 
sion of  thoroughwort,  drank  freely  every  day.  Cold  water  should  be  the 
onlv  drink ;  no  coffee,  tea,  etc.  As  much  exercise  should  be  taken  as  the 
patient  can  stand  ;  and  if  there  be  any  spasmodic  pain  in  the  right  side,  the 
patient  should  sit  frequently  in  a  warm  bath  up  to  his  shoulders.     Any  sX- 


660  MEDICAL, 

tack  of  janndice  may  turn  out  seriously,  and  therefore  as  soon  as  the  symp- 
toms develop  themselves  a  physician  should  be  sent  for.  Persons  subject  to 
jaundice  ought  to  take  as  much  active  exercise  as  possible,  and  should  avoid 
all  exhausting  food  and  stimulating  drinks. 

Diet  in  Disease  and  Health. — Of  the  grains  for  mushes,  rye  is  most  flesh> 
making,  oatmeal  second,  and  Graham  third.  For  laxativcness — rye  first, 
Graham  second,  oatmeal  third.  Graham  builds  up  nerves,  bones,  and  sin- 
ews ;  dark  gluten  the  same ;  light  gluten  is  more  fattening  than  the  dark. 

Changing  Clothing. — People  often  take  cold  by  removing  heavy  under- 
clothing too  early  in  the  spring.  This  should  never  be  done  until  weather  is 
settled.  When  about  to  make  the  change,  take  a  cold  hand-bath  or  sponge- 
bath  and  rub  briskly,  in  the  morning,  and  there  is  no  danger  of  taking  cold. 

Cutting  the  Hair. — Many  children  and  men  take  cold  after  having  the 
hair  cut.  This  may  be  prevented  by  a  quick  dash  of  cold  water  on  the  head 
immediately  after  cutting,  and  before  going  out,  and  a  brisk  nibbing  after- 
ward. 

A  Simple  Remedy  for  Catabrh. — Place  alum  on  the  stove  and  let  it  melt 
and  burn  until  it  becomes  a  dry  powder.    Then  use  it  as  snuff. 

Change  of  Climate. — A  change  of  climate  is  nearly  always  beneficial  t» 
health  for  a  time,  and  sometimes  effects  a  complete  cure  in  disease.  It  is  still 
more  likely  to  do  good  if  a  chan^  of  habits  and  diet  goes  with  it 

Children's  Beds. — No  two  children  should  sleep  m  the  same  bed.  Tbey 
will  have  better  health  and  thrive  better  to  sleep  by  themselves. 


MISCELLANEOTJa 


Foe  Ivy  Poisoir.— Apply  sweetroil. 

Rust  iw  Ibon. — Kerosene-oil  will  remove  it. 

To  Scour  Tins. — Use  whiting  moistened  with  kerosene. 

Mbltbd  Snow — produces  one-eishtli  of  its  bulk  in  water. 

To  Remove  Fin&eb-rin».— Hold  hand  in  very  cold  water. 

Squeaking  Boots.— Drive  a  peg  into  the  middle  of  the  sole. 

When  to  Paint. — Oil-paint  lasts  longer  when  put  on  in  autumn. 

Morocco  Leather — may  be  restored  with  a  varnish  of  white  of  an  egae. 

To  Drive  Nails. — ^Naifs  dipped  in  soap  will  drive  easily  in  hard  wood. 

Leaky  Roofs. — A  cement  made  of  sand  and  white-lead  paint  will  stop 
leaks. 

To  Keep  off  Flies. — Paint  walls  or  rub  over  picture  frames  with  lau- 
rel-oil. 

Door-latches  and  Locks — will  work  easily  and  quietly  if  oiled  occa- 
sionally. 

Sealing  Wax — is  made  of  two  parts  of  beeswax  and  one  of  resin,  melted 
together. 

To  Clean  Ermine. — Rub  with  corn-meal,  renewing  the  meal  as  it  be- 
comes soiled. 

Paint. — New  woodwork  requires  one  pound  of  paint  to  the  square  yard, 
lor  three  coats. 

To  Clean  Steel. — Unslaked  lime  cleans  small  articles  of  polished  steel 
— ^like  buckles,  etc. 

To  Harden  Wood. — Cut  the  wood  in  the  shape  desired,  and  boil  eight 
minutes  in  olive-oil. 
f^      To  Clean  Russia  Iron,  mix  blacking  with  kerosene,  and  it  will  look 
^  aearly  as  well  as  new. 

Coal  Fire.— If  your  coal  fire  is  low,  throw  on  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  it 
^  will  help  it  very  much. 

Ink  Spots  on  Books. — A  solution  of  oxalic  acid  will  remove  them  with- 
#Qt  injuring  the  print. 

Leaks  about  Chimneys — may  be  stopped  by  a  cement  made  of  coal-tar 
and  sand,  neatly  applied. 

Postage  Stamps — will  stick,  and  not  turn  up  at  the  corners,  if  the  face 
Is  wet  after  applying  them. 

In  Beating  Egor. — Do  not  have  one  particle  of  tlie  yolks  with  the  whites^  for 
if  80  they  will  not  froth  nicely. 

Berry  Stains. — The  fumes  of  a  brimstone  match  will  remove  berry  stains 
from  a  book,  paper  or  engraving. 

Mice. — Pumpkin  seeds  are  very  attractive  to  mice,  and  traps  baited  with 
Hiem  will  soon  destroy  this  little  pest 

Dry  Paint  is  removed  by  dipping  a  swab  with  a  handle  in  a  strong  solu- 
tion of  oxalic  acid.     It  softens  it  at  once. 

To  Keep  Walks  Clean. —  Sprinkle  with  weak  brine  through  a  water- 
j^rinkler,  or  scatter  salt  along  the  walks. 

To  Clean  Blaok  Kids.— Add  a  few  drops  of  ink  to  a  tea-spoon  of  salad- 
oil;  rub  on  with  a  feather,  and  dry  in  the  sun. 

Shingles. — Dip  well-seasoned  shingles  in  lime,  wash  and  dry  before  lay* 
ing.  and  they  will  Inst  longer  and  never  take  on  moss. 


6(32  MISCELLAXKO  US. 

To  Clean  Wells  of  Foul  Air.— Throw  down  a  peck  of  unslaked  lime. 
Tlie^  lieat  produced  carries  out  tlie  foul  air  with  a  rush. 

When  \  Chimney  takes  Fire — tlirow  Siilt  oa  the  tire,  and  shut  ofT  the 
draught  as  much  as  pov^ible,  and  it  will  burn  out  slowly. 

Dish-watek  and  S<)\p-sri».s — jMmrcd  aUmt  tlie  roots  of  young  fruit-trees, 
currant  and  ra.splK*rry  hushes,  eto.,  fucilitate  their  prowtli. 

Chkap  Paint   for   Iron    Fencixcj. — Tar  mixed  with  yellow-oehre  makes 
an  excellent  green  paint  for  coarse  woodwork  or  iron  fencing. 

DiKTY  Coat-collars. — Apply  benzine,  and,  after  an  hour  or  more,  when 
the  grease  has  become  softeneii,  rub  it  or  remove  with  soa|)-suds. 

To  Clean  Kettles  easily,  pour  a  little  hot  water  in  them  and  put  a  cover 
on  ;  the  steam  will  soften  the  dirt  so  that  it  may  be  etwily  removed. 

Onion  Oim)hs. — Wlien  c^Miking  onions,  set  a  tin-cup  of   vinegar  dn   the 
Move  and  let  it  boil,  ixnd  it  i.s  said  you  will  smell  no  uisaj^reeable  odor. 

To  Softkv  Levther.— The  best  oil  for  making  boot.s  and  harness  leather 
soft  and  pliable,  is  rastor-oil.     It  is  also  exeellent  for  greasing  vehicles. 

Color  of  Paint  for  Tools. — Tools  expose«l  to  the  sun  sliould  be  painted 
witn  light-colored  paints,  as  they  reflect  instead  of  absorbing  the  heat. 

Gluk. — PowdenMi  chalk  added  to  glue  strengthens  it.  Boil  one  pound 
glue  with  two  quarts  skimmed  milk,  and  it  will  re.sist  the  action  of  water. 

To  KEEP  Pearls  Brilliant. — Keep  in  common,  dry  magnesia,  instead  of 
the  cotton  wool  used  in  jewel  cases,  and  they  will  never  lose  their  brilliancy. 

To  MAKE  Boots  and  iiwoEs  DraABLE.-- Apply  to  the  soles  four  or  five 
successive  coats  of  gum-coi)al  varnish;  and,  to  the  uppers,  a  mixture  of 
four  parts  of  lard  to  one  of  rosin.     Apply  while  warm. 

To  OET  Light  in  a  Well  or  Cistern.— Reflect  it  in  by  a  looking-glass. 
Any  steel  or  metal  lost  in  a  cistern  may  be  drawn  out  by  lowering  a  strong 
magnet. 

I  )  ('atch  Wild  DrcKs  or  Geese  Alive. — Soak  wheat  in  strong  alcohol, 
and  scatter  where  they  are  in  the  habit  of  feeding,  and  take  them  while 
tliey  are  drunk. 

To  MAKE  Artificial  Bttter. — Render  beef  suet  at  a  veiy  low  tempera- 
ture, cliurn  it  in  fresh  buttermilk  and  yolks  of  eggs,  and  treat  like  but- 
ter, when  renin ved. 

Pounded  Glass — mixed  with  dry  corn-meal,  and  placed  within  the  reach 
of  rats,  it  is  said,  will  banish  them  from  the  premises;  or  sprinkle  cayenne 
pepner  in  their  holes. 

fepors  ON  Varnished  Furniture  are  readilv  removed  by  rubbing  them 
witli  essence  of  peppermint  or  spirits  of  caniplior,  and  afterwards  with  "fur- 
niture polish"  or  oil. 

To  Keep  Seeds  from  the  depredations  of  mice,  mix  some  pieces  of  cam- 
phor with  them.  Camphor  placed  in  trunks  or  drawers  will  prevent  mice 
iroin  doing  them  injury. 

Furniture  Fillinc*. — Mix  two  gallons  plaster  of  paris,  one  pint  flour, 
one  ounce  each  of  pulverized  pumice-stone  and  prepared  chalk ;  add  one 
ha>f  gallon  boiled  oil  and  one  gill  Japan  drying. 

To  Blow  Out  a  Candle. — If  a  aindle  is  blown  out  by  an  upward  instead 
of  a  dovvnwani  current  of  air,  the  wick  will  not  smoulder  down.  Hold  the 
car.  ile  higher  than  the  mouth  in  blowing  it  out. 

liME  TO  Cut  Timber. — Hard  wood  for  timber  or  tire-wood  should  be  cut 
in  August,  September  or  October.  Hoop-jwles  should  be  cut  before  frost 
cotues:  cut  at  other  times,  there  is  danger  of  worms. 

A  Wet  Silk  Hat. — Shake  off  the  water,  rub  the  way  the  nap  lies  with 
a  clean  linen  cloth  or  silk  handkerchief,  and  hang  some  distance  from  the 
fire  to  dry;  a  few  hours  after,  brush  with  a  soft  brush. 

To  .MAKE  Old  Varnish  Dry.— "Sticky "  varnish  may  be  dried  by  apply- 
ing a  coat  of  benzine,  and,  after  two  or  three  days,  apply  a  coat  of  good 
vaniish,  and  let  dry  thoroughly  before  using  the  furniture. 

DiscoLORATioNs  ON  CusTARD  Cups.— To  take  the  brown  discolcratloiis off  ot 


MISCELLAyEOUS.  663 

cups  In  whicli  custards  are  baked :   Rub  with  damp  flannel  dipped  in  best 
whiting.    Scouring  sand  or  sand  soap  will  answer  tlie  purpose. 

To  Preserve  Steel  Pens. — Steel  pens  are  destroyed  by  corrosion  from 
acid  in  the  ink.  Put  in  the  ink  some  nails  or  old  stvel  i>ens,  and  the  acid 
will  exhaust  itself  on  them,  and  the  })ens  in  use  will  not  corrode. 

To  KEEP  Russia  Iron  Pipe  or  Stoves  during  the  summer:  Give  them  a 
good  coat  of  coal-oil  all  over,  and  put  away  m  a  dry  place.  In  the  fall 
givi'  it  a  fresh  coat  of  oil  or  benzine,  and  rub  it  all  of!  clean  and  dry. 

Buckeye  Polish.— Take  one  ounce  each  shellac  and  coal -oil,  half  an 
ounce  each  linseed  oil  and  turpentine,  bottle  and  keep  well  corked,  shake 
well  before  using  and  apply  witn  a  sponge.     Good  for  marred  furniture. 

Fob  Poultry.— Fish  are  an  excellent  food  for  poultry;  largely  increas- 
ing the  production  of  eggs.  Those  who  have  tried  the  experiment  have 
discarded  all  the  patent  egg-producing  foods  in  the  market,  and  feed  iish. 

Wood — may  be  fastenea  to  stone  with  a  cement  made  of  four  parts  of 
pitch,  four  parts  of  pounded  brick-dust  or  chalk,  and  one  part  of  beeswax. 
Warm  it  before  using,  and  apply  a  thin  coating  to  the  surfaces  to  be  joined. 

Outbids  Garments. — Bonnets,  cloaks,  hata,  shawls,  scarfs,  and  the  like, 
will  last  clean  and  fresh  much  longer  if  the  dust  is  carefully  removed 
from  them  by  brushing  and  shaking  after  returning  from  a  ride  or  walk. 

New  Rope  may  be  made  pliable  by  boiling  it  in  water  for  a  couple  of 
hours.  Its  strength  is  not  aiminished,  but  its  stiffness  is  gone.  It  must 
hang  in  a  warm  room  until  thoroughly  dried,  and  must  not  be  allowed  to 
kink. 

Razor  Straps-— are  kept  in  order  by  applying  a  few  drops  of  sweet-oil. 
After  nsing  a  strap,  the  razor  takes  a  keen  edge  by  passing  it  over  the 
palm  of  the  warm  liand;  dipping  it  in  warm  water  also  makes  it  cut  more 
ieenly. 

Mica  Windows  in  stoves  (often  wrongly  called  "isinglass"),  when 
smoked,  are  readily  cleaned  by  taking  out  and  thoroughly  washing  with 
Tinegar  a  little  diluted.  If  the  black  does  not  come  olT  at  once,  let  it  soak 
a  little. 

Arrange  Flat-irons  on  the  stove  in  two  rows,  "heel  and  toe,"  or  so 
that  when  ready  for  a  hot  flat  you  can  take  the  next  one  in  order  without 
lc«s  of  time  in  trying  or  "sissing"  them,  being  sure  of  getting  the  one  that 
has  been  heated  the  longest. 

Chapped  Hands.— Grind  one  side  of  a  pumice  stone ;  wet,  and,  with  the 
smooth  side,  rub  the  hands.  If  badly  chapped,  oil  them  at  night,  and  dry 
in  by  the  fire;  or,  at  night,  wet  the  hands,  and  rub  a  little  honey  over 
them,  drying  it  in  before  the  fire. 

Chickadees  in  Winter.— A  cup  of  pumpkin-seeds,  set  on  the  window- 
rill,  will  attract  chickadees,  and  they  will  become  quite  tame,  and  are  very 
amusing  with  their  antics.  They  may  be  kept  about  the  house  from  Decem- 
ber to  May  by  fee<ling  and  kind  treatment. 

Shellac  Varnish.— Put  shellac  in  a  bottle,  pour  90  per  cent,  alcohol  to 
cover,  cork  tight  and  put  in  a  warm  room,  shake  occasionally,  and  if  not  all 
dissolved  in  Uiree  or  four  days,  add  more  alcohol.  This  is  good  to  varnisli 
almost  any  thing,  and  will  dry  in  half  an  hour. 

Friction  Matches— should  never  be  left  where  the  mice  will  get  them, 
as  they  carry  them  to  their  nests,  and  sometimes  ignite  them.  They  are 
poison  to  children,  and  are  dangerous  to  women,  who  ignite  them  by  step- 
ping on  them,  and  endangering  their  clothing  from  fire. 

To  Prevent  Pumps  from  Freezing.  — Take  out  the  lower  valve  in  the 
iall,  and  drive  a  tack  under  it,  projecting  in  such  a  way  that  it  can  not 

Suite  close.    The  water  will  then  leak  back  into  the  well  or  cistern,  while 
le  working  qualities  of  the  pump  will  not  be  damaged. 
Valuable  Cement.— Two  parts,  by  weiglit,  of  common  pitch   and  one 
part  gutta  percha,  melted  together  in  an  iron  vessel,  makes  a  cement  that 
bolds  together,  with  wonderful  tenacity,  wood,  stone,  ivory,  leather,  porc*- 
kln,  silk,  woolen  or  cotton.    It  is  well  adapted  to  aquariuma* 


664  MISCELLANEOUS, 

CncKifT  FOR  RuBBRR  OR  T<BATRER.— T)iSj)o1ve  one  ounc5e  of  ^utta  percha 
in  one-half  pound  chloroform.  Clean  the  parts  to  be  cemented ;  cover  each 
with  solution,  and  let  thcni  dry  twenty  or  thirty  minutes;  warm  each  part 
in  the  Hame  of  the  candle,  and  press  very  firmly  together  ti.ll  dry. 

Insurance. — Supixuje  your  Iwirn  or  house  should  take  fire  to-night  and  be 
burned  down,  would  you  know,  witiiout  investipatinp,  that  it  was  fully 
insured  and  that  the  pcilioy  wius  good  and  tight?  S<jme  insurance  companies 
have  a  keen  scent  for  flaws  in  {Hjliciesand  oft4in  find  them.  Don't  let  them 
ever  find  one  in  yours.      Alwav-s  insure  in  companies  known  to  be  sound. 

To  MAKE  OLD  Paint  dry. — Old  paint  which  is  "sticky"  may  be  made 
hard  and  dry  by  applying  a  coat  of  l)cnzine,  then  after  a  day  or  two,  if  the 
coat  of  paint  is  good,  go  over  it  with  a  tliin  coat  of  laquer  mixed  with  one 
third  of  its  bulk  of  l)oilcd  oil.  If  paint  is  thin  apply  a  second  coat  in  which 
more  laquer  is  used. 

To  Re.vovate  Hat-bands  when  Stained  by  Sweat. — Dissolve  one  and  a 
half  ounces  white  c&stite  soap  in  four  ounces  alajhol  and  one  ounc^.  each  of 
sulphuric  ether  and  aqua  ammonia,  ap{>ly  with  a  sponge  or  toothbrush,  rub 
smartly,  rinse  out  with  clear  rain-water.  This  is  equally  good  to  renovate 
anv  cloth  with  fast  color. 

To  Thaw  Out  a  PrMP. — Pour  hot  water  directly  on  the  ice,  through  a 
tin  tube,  lowering  it  as  fast  as  the  ice  thaws.  Ice  may  l)e  thawed  in  this 
way  at  the  rate  of  a  foot  a  minute;  while,  by  pouring  hot  water  into  the 

f>ump,  the  ice  would  hardly  he  affected,  tlie  hot  water  being  lighter  than 
he  cold,  and  rising  to  the  top. 

Water-proof  Shoes. — To  make  slioes  water-prr>of  and  make  them  last  a 
long  time,  dissolve  beeswax  and  add  a  little  sweet-oil  to  thin  it  Before  the 
shoes  are  w»orn,  warm  tlie  soles  and  pour  the  melted  wax  on  with  a  tea- 
spoon; and  then  hold  it  cl<»se  to  the  fire  till  it  soaks  into  the  leather;  then 
add  more  till  the  leather  ceases  to  absorb  it. 

Diamond  Cement. — Dissolve  thirteen  ounces  of  white  glue  in  a  tin  dish 
containing  a  pint  and  a  half  soft  water  (set  in  a  kettle  containing  boiling 
water);  when  the  glue  is  dissolve*!,  stir  in  three  ounces  of  white  lead,  and 
boil  till  well  mixed;  remove  from  fire,  and,  when  cool,  add  half  pint  alco- 
hol ;  bottle  immediately,  and  keep  well  corked. 

A  Good  Paste. — To  one  pint  cold  water  add  two  heaping  table-spoons 
flour.  Put  the  flour  in  a  pan,  add  a  little  of  the  water,  stirring  until 
smooth;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  water,*  stir  thoroughly,  place  on  the 
stove  and  stir  constantly  until  it  Iwils.  After  taking  fr6m'  the  stove,  add 
one-fourth  teaspoon  ground  cloves  to  keep  it  sweet. 

Piece- Baos. — While  cotton  piece-bags  hung  in  the  linen  closet  are  a  ^reat 
convenience;  have  them  made  with  a  string  to  draw  from  both  sides: 
mark  in  large  letters  in  indelible  inki  *' Merino  and  Cloth,"  "Cotton  and 
Linen  Sundries,"  *' Dress  Pieces,"  "Old  Linen,"  "Worsted  and  Yam," 
** Old  Silk,"  "Thread  and  Tape,"  "Old  Gloves,"  etc. 

To  Remove  White  Spots  on  Fitrniturr,  caused  by  a  hot  iron  or  hot 
water,  or  to  rest-ore  blistered  furniture. — Rub  with  a  No.  1  sand-paper  some- 
what worn,  or  apply  pulverized  pumice  stone  mixed  with  a  few  drc^  of 
linseed  oil,  then  with  a  cotton  cloth  rub  on  some  shellac  varnish  thinned 
well  with  turpentine.     Or.  rub  with  spirits  of  camphor. 

Weight  op  Grain. — Wheat  60  pounds  in  all  states  except  Connecticat, 
where  it  is  50;  corn  56,  except  in  New  York,  where  it  is  .')8 ;  oats  32;  barley 
48;  buckwheat  46  to  50,  but  generally  48;  clover  seed  60,  but  64  in  Ohio  ana 
New  Jersey;  timothy  44;  flaxseed  56;  potatoes  60;  beans  60,  but  in  Ohio 
66,  and  New  York  62;  dried  peaches  28  to  .'i'i;  drie<l  apples  22  to  28. 

Unfermented  Wink  for  CoM.MrNioN. — Weigh  the  grapes,  pick  from  the 
stems,  put  in  a  i)orcelain  kettle,  add  very  little  wat-er,  and  cook  till  stones 
and  pulp  separate;  press  and  strain  through  a  thick  cloth,  return  juice 
to  kettle,  ana  add  three  pounds  sugar  to  every  ten  pounds  grapes;  heatta 
simmering,  bottle  hot,  and  seal.    This  makes  one  gallon,  and  is  good. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  665 

To  Soften  Sponqes. — A  sponge  when  first  purchased  is  frequently  hard, 
stiff  and  gritty.  To  soften  it,  and  dislodge  the  particles  of  sea-sand  from  its 
crevices,  having  first  soaked  and  squeezed  it  through  several  cold  waters,  put 
the  sponge  into  a  clean  tin  sauce-pan,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  boil  it  a  quar- 
ter 01  an  hour.  Then  take  it  out  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  and  squeeze  it 
well.  Wash  out  the  sauce-pan,  and  return  the  sponge  to  it,  filling  up  with 
clean,  cold  water,  and  boil  it  another  quarter  of  an  hour.  Repeat  the  pro- 
cess, giving  it  three  boils  in  fresh  water,  or  more  than  three  if  you  find  it 
still  gritty.  Take  care  not  to  let  it  boil  too  long,  or  it  will  become  tender 
and  arop  to  pieces. 

Extras  Thrown  in. — To  purify  a  room  of  unpleasant  odors,  bum  vinegar, 
resin,  or  sugar;  to  make  chicken  gravy  richer,  add  eggs  found  in  chicken,  or, 
if  none,  yolk  of  an  egg;  soak  garden  seeds  in  hot  water  a  few  seconds  before 
planting ;  to  prevent  cholera  in  chickens,  put  assafoetida  in  water  they  drink, 
and  let  them  pick  at  coal  ashes ;  in  using  hard  water  for  di.sh-water  add  a 
little  milk ;  to  clean  paint,  add  to  two  quarts  hot  water,  two  table-spoons  tur* 
pentine  and  one  of  skimmed  milk,  and  only  soap  enough  to  make  suds,  and 
It  will  clean  and  give  luster ;  iron  rust  on  marble  can  generally  be  removed 
with  lemon-juice  ;  a  thin, coat  of  varnish  applied  to  straw-matting  makes  it 
more  durable  and  adds  to'  its  beauty. 

Bologna  Sausage. — ^Take  equal  portions  of  fresh  pork,  veal,  and  ham 
or  salt  pork,  chop  them  fine  or  grind,  and  mix  together  thoroughly  ;  to  nine 
pounds  of  the  meat  allow  ten  tea-spoons  powderea  sage,  two  each  of  ca3'enne 
and  black  pepper,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  minced 
onion,  and  sweet  herbs  to  taste;  mix  well  and  stuff  into  beef  intestines. 
(Wash  tlie  intestines  thoroughly  and  cut  them  into  lengths  of  two  yards 
each ;  turn  inside  out,  and  again  wash  thoroughly  in  warm  water,  scraping 
with  a  scraper  made  for  this  purpose ;  throw  into  salt  water  to  soak  till  used. 
Great  care  will  be  necessary  in  cleaning  cases  to  avoid  tearing  them.)  Tie 
up  both  ends  of  the  bag  tightly,  prick  in  several  places,  and  boil  slowly 
for  an  hour ;  then  dry  them  m  the  sun,  and  hang  them  in  a  cool  dry  cellar, 
after  rubbing  the  outside  of  the  skins  with  melted  butter.  These  are  eaten 
without  further  cooking,  and  are  very  nice. 

614ACK  FOR  Woolens. — ^One  ounce  vitriol,  one  ounce  extract  logwood  to 
two  pounds  goods ;  color  in  iron.  Di-ssolve  the  extract  over  night  in  warm 
water;  pulverize  the  vitriol,  put  it  into  boiling  water  sufficient  to  cover  the 
goods;  wash  the  goods  well,  rinse  in  warm  water,  then  simmer  a  few  min- 
utes in  vitriol  wat^r ;'  take  out,  wash  thoroughly  in  clear  water,  then  dip  in 
boiling  logwood  dye  till  the  color  is  good,  stirring  often  and  lifting  u])  so  it 
will  get  tlie  air;  dry,  then  wa'^h  in  a  suds  and  rinse.  In  renovating  black 
alpaca  that  has  become  rusty,  di.ssolve  the  logwood  onljr,  as  nothing  is  needed 
to  set  the  color.  Wash  the  goods  well  in  suds,  rinse,  dip  in  logwood  dye,  boil 
a  few  minutes,  stirring  and  lifting  to  air.  When  dry,  wash  again  in  sud.sand 
rinse  in  water  in  which  a  little  gum  arable  has  been  dissolved,  and  press 
smoothly  on  the  wrong  side  while  damp.  Dyed  in  this  way  the  color  will 
not  rub  off  more  tlian  from  new  goods,  and  looks  as  good  as  new.  When 
extract  of  logwood  is  used,  it  is  only  needful  to  boil  enough  to  dissolve  be- 
fore putting  in  the  goods. 

The  Cistern. — An  abundant  supply  of  good  water  is  a  necessity  for  every 
house,  and  capacious  cisterns  are  a  necessity.  Two  essential  requisites  are 
^ood  hydraulic  lime  and  clean  pure  sand.  The  hydraulic  cement  becomes 
ma  few  months  as  hard  as  sandstone,  but  the  sand  must  never  exceed  two 
parts  to  one  of  lime.  The  cheapest  form  of  cistern  is  simply  a  hole  dugin 
the  ground  with  sides  sloping  like  those  of  a  narrow  bottomed  tub.  The 
water  lime  mortar  is  applied  directly  to  these  sides,  the  shape  of  the  sides 
sustaining  the  mortar  until  it  hardens.  The  breadth  of  such  a  cistern,  if 
large,  makes  it  difficult  to  cover,  but  this  may  be  done  with  a  plank  sup- 
ported by  strong  scantling,  over  which  should  be  placed  earth  to  the  depth 
of  the  lowest  frost.    There  must  be  a  hole  through  the  covering,  left  for 


666  MISCELLANEOUS. 

cleaning,  which  should  be  curbed,  and  may  admit  the  pump  if  the  locality 
is  right,  or  a  pipe  may  go  from  cistern  into  cellar  below  the  frost  line, 
and  thence  to  the  kitchen.  The  mortar  on  the  walls  should  never  be  leas 
than  an  inch  thick,  and  they  should  have  at  least  two  coats,  and  three  are 
better.  As  the  mortar  begins  to  dry  in  a  very  short  time  after  qiixin^,  it 
is  best  to  mix  the  lime  and  sand  dr^*,  and  apply  water  to  small  quantities 
at  a  time  as  needed.  A  mure  capacious  cistern  may  be  made  at  a  greater 
expense  by  digging  a  hole  with  per|>endicular  walls,  and  laying  walls  of 
bnck  in  the  form  of  the  upper  half  of  a  barrel,  on  which  to  lay  the  mor- 
tar. This  form  has  a  smaller  top,  and  is  much  more  easily  covered  than 
the  other.  The  wall  should  be  laid  as  well  as  plastered  with  water-lime. 
A  filtering  attachment  is  made  by  building  a  small  receiving  cistern  beside 
the  larger  one,  with  filtering  apparatus  between  them,  or  a  strong  wall 
mav  be  built  through  the  middle  of  the  cistern,  receiving  the  water  in  one 
division  and  filtering  it  through  into  the  other. 

Limb-water  and  its  Uses.— -rlace  a  piece  of  unslaked  lime  (size  is  imma- 
terial, as  the  water  will  take  up  only  a  certain  quantity)  in  a  perfectly  clean 
bottle,  and  fill  with  cold  water;  keep  corked  in  a  cellar  or  cool  dark  place: 
it  is  ready  for  use  in  a  few  minutes,  and  the  clear  lime-water  may  be  used 
whenever  it  is  needed.  When  the  water  is  poured  off,  add  more;  this  may 
be  done  three  or  four  times,  after  which  some  new  lime  must  be  used  as 
at  first  A  tea-spoon  in  a  cup  of  milk  is  a  remedy  for  children*s  summer 
complaint;  also  for  acidity  of  the  stomach;  when  added  to  milk  it  has  no 
unpleasant  taste.  When  put  into  milk  that  would  otherwise  curdle  when 
heated,  it  prevents  its  curlding,  so  that  it  can  then  be  used  for  puddings 
and  pies.  A  small  quantity  of  it  will  prevent  the  *'  turning"  of  cream  and 
milk.  It  also  sweetens  and  purifies  bottles  which  have  contained  milk. 
Some  add  a  cupful  to  a  sponge  of  bread  to  prevent  it  from  souring. 

The  Lightning  Rod. — When  properly  put  up,  the  lightning  rod  is  a  per- 
fect protection ;  but,  when  not  seientificallv  constructed,  is  only  a  source 
of  danger.  Tlie  following  are  essentials:  L  It  must  extend  seversil  feet  into 
the  ground  so  as  always  to  be  in  contact  with  rnoist  earth,  or  into  a  never-failing 
supply  of  water;  2.  It  must  be  sfuirp  at  tlie  top,  and,  if  there  are  sevenu 
points,  all  the  better;  3.  It  must  be  half  as  liigh  above  the  top  of  the  build- 
ing as  the  distance  horizon ti«  11  y  to  ths  most  remote  part  of  the  roof  of  the 
building;  4.  It  should  be  large  enough  to  convey  off  every  discharge  with- 
out being  melted  or  broken ;  5.  The  best  material  is  iron  with  copper 
below  the  surface  of  the  ground,  as  iron  ru.sts  away  rapidly  in  the  moist 
earth.  CopT)er  is  the  best  conductor,  but  costs  more*  and  is  not  as  stiff  to 
withstand  the  wind.  One-half  to  five-eighths  of  an  inch  in  diameter  is  large 
enough.  Bright  points  are  not  essential,  and  glass  insulators  are  of  no  use 
whatever,  as  when  wet  they  are  good  conductors,  and,  even  if  they  were 
not  a  small  charge  even  would  leap  across  the  short  distance  from  the  rod 
to  the  iron  staple.  The  best  way  to  fasten  the  joints,  is  to  weld  them, 
which  any  blacksmith  can  do,  passing  the  rod  through  opposite  doors  of 
his  shop,  afterwards  dragging  it  home.  If  the  building  is  so  high  that  it 
can  not  be  readily  put  up  in  one  piece,  the  best  joint  is  made  by  screwing 
the  two  ends  firmly  into  one  nut  The  points  are  easily  made  by  welding 
several  smaller  wires  to  the  large  one,  and  filing  them  sharp.  A  rod  will 
protect  a  space  the  distance  of  which  is  four  times  the  heignt  of  the  rod. 
The  cheapest  and  best  support  is  wood.  The  only  point  to  be  considered  is 
to  secure  the  rod  firmly.  The  round  rods  are  the  best  If  there  are  iron 
water-pipes  or  steam-pipes  in  the  building,  they  should  all  be  connected 
with  tne  liglitning  rod,  or  directly  with  the  moist  earth,  eight  or  ten  feet 
below  the  surface. 

Canary  Birds. — Do  not  keep  in  a  room  that  is  being  painted  or  has  odor 
of  new  paint  Do  not  hang  over  a  stove  or  grate  which  contains  fire.  Do 
not  set  the  cage  in  a  window,  and  shut  it  down  upon  it;  the  draft  is  injuri- 
oos.    Do  not  wash  cage  bottom,  but  scrape  clean  with  a  knife,  and  then  put 


MISCELLANEOUS.  667 

on  some  fresh  gravel ;  the  moisture  breeds  red  mites,  and  is  injurious  to  the 
bird.  Do  not  keep  the  birds  you  intend  to  breed  in  the  spring  together 
during  the  winter.  Do  not  keep  single  birds  in  a  room  where  others  are 
breeding,  or  males  and  females  in  mating  season  in  the  same  room  in  sepa- 
rate cages,  as  it  is  likely  to  cause  mating  fever.  Feed  canary  on  rape  seed, 
but  no  lierap.  For  diarrhoea  put  a  rusty  piece  of  iron  in  dish  water,  changing 
water  not  ottener  than  twice  a  week,  and  oread  boiled  in  milk  as  for  asthma; 
boil  well  in  this  case,  so  tliat  when  cold  it  will  cut  like  cheese;  give  freely 
with  plenty  of  vegetables. 

Moulting  is  not  a  disease,  yet  during  this  season  all  birds  are  more  or  less 
aick.  and  some  suffer  severely.  They  require  plenty  of  nourishing  food. 
Worms,  insects,  and  fruits  to  those  which  eat  them ;  and  to  those  which 
live  upon  dry  seeds,  bread  dipped  in  milk,  fruit  and  vegetables. 

The  German  metallic-enameled  cages  are  the  best — white  and  green  (a 
combination  of)  or  a  light  chocolate  are  the  best  colors;  they  are  not  painted 
as  are  the  cages  made  here  in  America,  but  the  color  is  burnt  into  the  wires. 
Avoid  wooden  or  brass  cages,  also  conical  **  fountains  "  for  food  and  drink  ; 
for  the  latter,  square  or  round  cups  of  china  or  glass  are  the  best.  The 
perches  should  be  plain,  round,  unvarnished  sticks,  and  no  two  of  the  same 
size.  Clean  the  cage  thoroughly  every  morning.  Prepare  fresh,  clean  bath- 
ing and  drinking  water,  and  If  sand  is  used  on  the  bottom  of  cage,  clean  it 
(the  sand)  by  boiling  in  water.    Scrape  the  perches  well,  and  twice  a  week 

f»lunge  them  in  boiling  water  to  kill  any  red  mites  that  may  have  lodged 
here.  Give  plenty  of  seed,  also  green  parts  of  manjr  plants,  such  as  poppy, 
rape,  hemp,  etc. ;  also  the  seeds  of  weeas  like  the  chickweed,  plantain,  etc., 
and  the  fresh,  tender  leaves  of  beets,  cabbage  and  lettuce.  Avoid  fruits  con- 
taining a  large  percentage  of  acid,  but  give  occasionally  a  hard-boiled  egg. 
Never  give  them  sugar,  but  all  the  red  pepper  they  will  eat.  It  is  the  best 
thing  for  them.  And  if  your  bird  feels  hoarse  at  any  time,  put  a  piece  of  fct 
salt  pork  in  the  cage  and  see  how  the  little  follow  will  enjoy  it.  Give  him 
flax-.seed  once  in  a  while,  and  if  he  appears  dumpy  occasionally  give  him  a 
diet  of  bread  and  water,  with  red  i>epper  sprinkled  in. 

For  lice,  cleanliness  is  the  best  preventive,  l)ut  not  always  .<»ure.  For  cure 
you  have  simply  to  cover  your  cage  at  night  with  a  white  cloth,  rise  early  in 
the  morning,  remove  the  cloth  and  dip  in  scalding  hot  water. 

Bkd-Bugs. — To  banish  bed-bugs  after  they  have  grjt  into  the  walls  and 
ceilings  of  a  house,  close  all  doors  and  windows  and  burn  brimstone,  ly 
throwing  it  upon  red  hot  coals  in  an  irtju  kettle  set  in  the  nii<ldle  (»f  tlio 
room.  Or  heat  a  })ie(e  of  iron  red  hot,  plaer  in  a  kettle,  throw  in  tl'*' 
l)rinistone,  and  leave  room  closed  for  twenty-four  h<ours.  It  is  death  to 
the  vermin. 

To  Cure  a  Burn. — Wot  a  cloth  and  sprinkle  it  with  carbonate  of  .H)d;i 
(common  cooking  soda)  and  bind  it  on  the  burn.  It  quickly  stops  the  i>ain, 
and  is  a  harmless  and  thorough  remedy.  If  no  clotli  is  at  hand,  wet  the 
part  burned  and  sprinkle  dry  soda  on  it. 

Use  of  Borax. — Borax  water  will  instantlv  remove  all  soils  and  stains 
Irom  the  hands,  and  heal  all  scmtches  and  cliafes.  To  make  it,  put  crudti 
borax  into  a  large  bottle  and  fill  with  water.  When  the  borax  is  dissolved 
add  more  to  the  water,  until  at  last  the  water  can  absorb  no  njore,  and  a 
residuum  remains  at  the  bottom  of  the  bottle.  To  the  water  in  which  the 
hands  are  to  be  washed  pour  from  this  bottle  enough  to  make  it  very 
soft.  It  is  very  cleansing  and  healthy.  By  its  use  the  hands  will  be  kept 
in  excellent  condition — soft,  smooth  and  white. 

Uses  of  Charcokl. — Charcoal  laid  flat  while  cold  on  a  bum,  cause  the 
pain  to  abate  immediately ;  by  leaving  it  on  for  an  hour  the  burn  seems 
almost  healed  when  the  wound  is  superficial.  Tainted  meat  surrounded 
with  it,  is  sweetened.  Strewn  over  heaps  of  decomposed  pelts,  or  over  dead 
animals,  charcoal  prevents  any  unpleasant  odor.  Foul  water  is  purified 
by  it.  It  is  a  great  disinfectant,  and  sweetens  offensive  air  if  placed  in 
BfiaUow  trays  around  apartments.    It  is  so  very  porous  that  it  absorbs  and 


668  MISCELLANEOUS. 

condenses  gasses  rapidh'.  One  cubic  inch  of  fresh  charcoal  will  abaorb  one 
hundred  inches  of  gaseous  aninionia.  Charcoal  forms  an  excellent  poultice 
for  malignant  wounds  and  st)rca.  In  cases  of  what  is  called  proud  flesh 
it  is  invaluable.  It  gives  no  disagreeable  o<lor,  cornnles  no  metal,  Jiurts  no 
texture,  injures  no  color,  is  a  simple  and  safe  sweetener  and  disinfectant, 
A  teaspoonful  of  charcoal,  in  half  a  glass  of  water,  often  relieves  a  sick 
headache.  It  absorbs  the  ^cs  and  relieves  the  distended  stomach  press- 
ing iigainst  the  nerves,  which  extend  from  the  stomach  to  the  heaa.  It 
often  relieves  constipation,  pain  or  heart  disease. 

Lime  in  Ca.ns. — Lime  ground  and  pulverize<i  for  white-washing  pur- 
poses is  put  in  cans  and  sold  by  druggists.  It  is  convenient  in  form  and 
excellent. 

To  cLE.v.\  A  BROWN  poKCELAi.v  KETTLE^  boil  i)eoled  potatocs  in  it.  The 
porcelain  will  lie  rendered  nearly  as  white  as  wnen  new. 

To  Make  Shoes  Durable.— A  coat  of  ^um  copal  varnish  applied  to  the 
soles  of  boots  and  shoes,  and  re])eated  as  it  dries  until  the  pores  are  titled 
and  the  surface  shines  like  polished  mahogony,  will  make  tlie  soles  water- 
proof, and  make  them  last  three  times  as  Ion;;. 

Ebonizinu  Wood. — Wash  any  close-grained  wood  with  a  strong  boiling 
decoction  of  logwood  two  or  three  times,  allowing  the  wood  to  dry  between 
the  api)lications.  Then  wash  with  a  solution  of  acetrate  of  iron  (made  by 
dissolving  iron  tilings  in  strong  vinegar). 

To  Remove  Rust  keom  a  Stovepipe. — Rub  with  linseed  oil  (a  little  goes 
a  great  way);  build  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  dry.  Oil  in  the  Spring  to  prevent 
it  from  rusting. 

To  C'uRB  A  RicKiNO  Cow. — Take  a  strap  an  inch  wide  and  buckle  tight 
around  each  hind  leg,  just  above  the  hock,  tight  enough  to  slightly  compress 
tiie  ham-string.  Then  she  can  not  kick.  In  fly  time  take  in  the  tail  with  the 
leg  and  you  will  not  swear. 

Handles. — Knife  and  fork  handles  that  have  become  loosened  may  be  fast- 
ened by  taking  a  piece  of  quill,  putting  it  into  the  handle,  and  pushing  the 
knife  or  fork  in  firmly,  after  first  heating  it. 

How  TO  Detect  Poison  Ivy. — The  poison  ivv  and  the  innocuous  kind  differ 
in  one  particular  which  is  too  easy  of  remembrance  to  be  overlooked  by  any 
•ne  who  is  interested  enough  in  the  brilliant-hued  leaves  of  autumn  to  care 
lor  gathering  them  ;  the  leaves  of  the  former  grow  in  clusters  of  threes,  and 
those  of  the  latter  in  fives.  As  somebody  has  suggested  in  a  juvenile  stoiy 
book,  every  child  should  be  taught  to  associate  the  five  leaves  in  a  cluster 
with  tlie  fingers  on  the  human  hand,  and  given  to  understand  that  when 
these  numbers  agree  they  can  be  brought  into  contact  with  perfect  safety.  It 
■lay  spare  our  readers  no  little  suffering  to  bear  this  point  in  mind  during 
their  October  rambles  in  the  fields. 

To  Cure  Worms  in  Horses. — Put  a  handful  of  sifted  wood  ashes  in  a  quart 
bottle,  and  fill  the  bottle  with  cider  vinegar.  It  will  foam  like  soda  water.  It 
should  be  given  to  the  horse  the  moment  it  foams.  Two  bottles  will  cure  the 
worst  case  of  worms.  Forty  years'  experience  attests  the  efficiency  of  this. 
Never  known  to  fail. 

Harmonious  Color' Contrasts. — The  following  list  of  harmonizing  colors 
will  be  found  very  useful  in  selecting  wall  decorations  or  colors  for  any  pur- 
pose :  Red  with  green,  blue  with  orange,  yellow  with  violet,  black  with  wami- 
orown,  violet  with  pale-green,  violet  with  light-rose,  deep  blue  with  golden- 
brown,  chocolate  with  light  blue,  deep  red  with  gray,  maroon  with  wami- 
green,  deep  blue  with  pink,  chocolate  with  pea-green,  maroon  with  deep  bine, 
olaret  with  buff,  black  with  warm-green. 

Branches  of  the  elder-bush  hung  in  the  dining-room  of  a  house,  will  clear 
the  room  of  flies.    There  is  an  odor  which  the  insects  detest. 

To  Clean  Loo  king -r*  lasses. — Keep  for  this  purpose  a  piece  of  sponge,  a 
cloth,  and  a  silk  handkerchief,  all  entirely  free  from  dirt,  as  the  least  grit  will 
scratch  the  flne  surface  of  the  glass.    First  sponge  it  with  a  little  spirits  of 


MISCELLANEOUS.  669 

v:ine,  ^n-and- water,  so  as  to  clean  off  all  spots;  then  dust  over  it  powder 
blue,  tied  in  muslin,  rub  it  liehtly  and  quickly  off  with  the  cloth,  and 
finish  by  rubbing  it  with  the  silk  handkerchief.  Be  careful  not  to  rub  Uie 
edges  or  the  frame. 

An  Easy  Way  to  Clean  Silver  Articles. — Set  fire  to  some  wheat-straw, 
collect  the  ashes,  and,  after  powdering  it,  sift  it  through  muslin.  Polish 
the  silver  plate  witli  a  little  of  it  applied  to  some  soft  leather. 

Freckle  Cure. — Take  2  oz.  lemon  juice,  or  half  a  dram  of  powdered  borax, 
and  one  dram  of  sugar ;  mix  together,  and  let  them  stand  in  a  glass  bottle  for 
a  few  days,  then  rub  on  the  face  occasionally. 

Yankee  Shavino  Soap. — ^Take  3  lbs.  white  bar  soap;  1  lb.  Castile  soap; 

1  quart  rain  water;  %  qt.  beef's  ^11 ;  1  gill  spirits  of  turpentine.  Cut  the  soap 
into  thin  slices,  and  boil  five  minutes  after  the  soap  is  dissolved,  stir  while 
boiling;  scent  with  oil  of  rose  or  almonds.  If  wished  to  color  it,  use  ]^  oz. 
vermilion. 

Bloom  of  Youth. — Boil  1  ounce  of  Brazil  wood  in  3  pints  of  water  for  1$ 
minutes ;  strain.  Add  %  oz.  isinglass  %  oz.  cochineal,  1  oz.  alum,  }4  oz. 
borax.    Dissolve  by  heat,  and  strain. 

Cologne  Water. — Oils  of  rosemary  and  lemon,  of  each  %  oz.;  oils  of  ber- 
gamotand  lavender,  each  H  oz.;  oil  cinnamon,  8  drops;  oils  of  cloves  and 
rose,  each  15  drops;  best  deodorized  alcohol,  2  qts.;  shake  two  or  three  times 
per  day  for  a  we^. 

To  Clean  Old  Marble. — Take  a  bullock's  gall,  1  gill  soap  lees,  half  a  gill 
of  turi>entine ;  make  into  a  paste  with  pipeclay,  apply  it  to  the  marble  ;  let 
it  dry  a  day  or  two,  and  then  rub  it  off,  and  it  will  appear  equal  to  new  ;  if 
very  dirty,  repeat  the  application. 

To  EXTRACT  Oil  from  Marble  or  Stone. — Soft  soap,  1  part ;  fullers' -earth, 

2  parts ;  potasli,  1  part ;  boiling  water  to  mix.  Lay  it  on  the  spots  of  grease, 
and  let  it  remain  for  a  few  hours. 

The  best  Kat  Trap. — Rats  are  very  sharp  to  spy  out  traps.  Any  trap  that 
has  caught  one  without  being  deodorized  is  not  likely  to  catch  another,  and 
old  ones  are  hard  to  catch  by  any  sort  of  trap.  The  best  method,  however, 
is  to  till  a  common  wash  boiler  one-third  full  of  water,  and  sprinkle  over  the 
surface  a  few  handfuls  of  oats.  These  will  float  on  the  surface  and  look 
like  a  tempting  feast,  but  the  rat  that  ventures  in  is  drowned.  By  placing  a 
block  of  wood  111  the  center  large  enough  to  fioat.one  rat,  its  cries  will  often 
call  more  in.     This  trap  will  prove  effective  when  others  fail. 

To  Renew  Stained  Fix)ors— that  have  ^rown  a  little  dull,  rub  thoroughly 
with  beeswax  and  turi)entine.    Rei>cat  this  whenever  they  need  it. 

To  Clean  Varnished  Furniture,  there  is  nothing  so  good  as  a  woolen  rag 
dampened  in  spirits  of  turpentine.  This  takes  all  the  dust  and  cloud  from 
carvings  and  panels.  When  they  have  been  thoroughlv  cleaned  with  the 
turpentine,  go  over  the  surface  again  with  a  bit  of  flannel  dipped  in  linseed 
oil,  rubbing  it  well  into  the  wooci. 

Cows  and  Turnips. — To  prevent  the  odor  and  flavor  of  turnips  from  ap- 
pearing in  the  milk,  feed  while  milking,  and  the  flavor  will  have  disappejired 
before  the  next  milking.  With  this  precaution,  feeding  turnips  will  increase 
the  flow  without  injuring  the  quality  or  flavor  of  milk. 

Care  of  a  Carriage. — A  carnage  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  coach-house,  with 
a  moderate  amount  of  light,  otherwise  the  colors  will  be  destroyed.  There 
should  be  no  comniunication  between  the  stables  and  the  coach-house. 
The  manure  heap  or  pit  should  ahso  be  kept  as  far  away  as  possible.  Am- 
monia cracks  varnish  and  fades  the  colors  noth  of  painting  and  lining.  In 
washing  a  carriage,  keep  out  of  the  sun  and  u.*<e  plenty  of  water  which 
apply  with  a  large,  soft  sponge.    This,  when   saturated,  squeeze  over   the 

{)anels,  and  by  the  flow  down  of  the  water  the  dirt  will  soften  and  harm- 
esslv  run  off,  then  finish  with  a  soft  chamois  leather  and  old  silk  hand- 
kerchief.   Never  ase  a  brush,  which,  in  conjunction  with  the  grit  from  the 

43 


670 


MISCELLANEO  US. 


road,  acts  like  sand-paper  on  the  varnish,  scratching  it,  and  of  course 
effectually  removing  all  gloss.  Never  allow  water  to  dry  itself  on  the  car- 
riage as  it  invariably  leaves  stains. 

The  F.\mily  Cow.— The  best  cows  are  usually  the  thinnest  ones  and  the 
largest  eaters.  The  wanner  the  stable  is  kept  the  less  food  will  she  require. 
Linseed  oil-cake  meal  gives  a  greasy,  unpleasant  flavor,  and  light  color  to 
butter.  Winter  and  Sj)ring  butter  is  often  injured  in  flavor  by  allowing 
cows  Ui  out  the  litter  from  horse  stables. 

To  Frkshen  Old  Hickory  Nuts  for  Cake  Making.— -Put  large  ones  in 
Ixiiling  water  for  half  an  hour  and  small  ones  for  a  quarter  hour,  crack, 
pick  out  meats  being  careful  not  to  mix  in  any  pieces  of  shell  or  the  fihn 
iliat  divides  the  two  halves,  If  the  meats  seem  damp,  place  for  a  few 
momenta  in  the  oven  to  dry  out.  Now  place  in  a  sieve  and  rub  gently  to 
remove  all  the  dark  portions  that  adhere  to  the  meat«,  and  they  are  ready 
to  be  chopped  for  the  cake.  Chop  very  fine  for  icings,  but  only  moder- 
utely  flne  tor  cake. 

To  Ascertain  Amount  or 
Gas  Used.— Read  from  left- 
hand  dial,  always  taking  the 
figures  which  the  index  hands 
have  paffled,  viz.:  By  these 
dials,  register  436  adding  two 
ciphers  for  the  hundredths, 
making  43,60)  feet  registered. 
To  ascertain  the  amount  of        100,000  10,000  1,000 

gas  used  in  a  given  time,  deduct  the  previous  register  from  the  present,  viK 

Register  by  above  dials, 43,600 

Previous  register  as  indicated  by  the  light  pointers,  17,800 


Feet  indicated, 


26,300 


Hydrophobia  and  rrs  Symptoms. — The  following  valuable  hints  regarding 
the  symptoms  of  that  terrible  disease,  hydrophobia,  are  from  a  lecture  de- 
livered in  St.  Paul,  by  the  Rev.  E.  C.  Mitchell,  of  that  city : 

"  The  |>eriod  of  actual  danger  begins  before  it  is  generally  suspected. 
Hydrophobia  is  contagious,  but  it  is  communicated  by  actual  contact 
only.  The  saliva  of  the  rabid  animal  must  enter  the  aW)rbent8  of  the 
body  of  the  victim.  Any  living  l>eing  which  has  the  hydrophobia  can 
communicate  it  to  others.  Carniverous  animals  are  most  liable  to  hj'dro- 
phobia.  Herbivorous  animals  are  less  dangerous,  because  they  do  not  gen- 
erally attack  with  their  teeth.  We  will  consider  the  disease  as  it  develops 
in  the  dog.  The  dog  does  not  at  once  become  furious.  The  disease  is  grad- 
\ial.  At  first  the  dog  feels  uneasy  and  likes  to  be  petted.  It  is  an  im- 
portant i)oint  that,  from  the  verv  beginning  of  the  disease,  the  saliva  of 
the  animal  is  a  deadly  poison,  ftis  caresses  are  as  dangerous  as  his  bite. 
If  tiie  siiliva  of  tiie  animal  comes  in  contact  with  anv  broken  place  on  the 
skin,  death  may  result  to  the  victim.  Symptoms  o?  hydrophobia:  1.  In 
the  outward  appearance:  the  dog  becomes  sad,  dull  and  retired.  He  crawls 
into  a  corner,  or  hides.  He  is  uneasy.  He  arouses  with  a  start,  changes 
position,  and  lies  down,  but  he  can  not  rest.  He  is  agitated,  yet  sad. 
There  is  a  marked  change  in  his  disposition.  He  is  already  dangerous, 
but  he  is  not  dis|K)sed  to  bite.  His  unea-siness  increases.  He  scratches 
his  bed,  turns  it  over,  smells  about  the  room,  under  the  doors,  etc.,  as 
though  looking  for  something.  He  is  a  victim  of  hallucination.  He  snaps 
at  imaginary  things  in  the  air.  As  he  ^rows  worse,  he  runs  furiously 
against  a  wall,  or  fence,  and  howls.    He  is  not  yet  quarrelsome  toward 


MISCELLANEOUS,  671 

the  family.  A.  familiar  voice  will  often  restore  him  to  his  senses.  He  is 
still  affectionate.  Th^  more  he  suffers,  the  more  he  seeks  relief  in  his 
master's  caresses.  The  family,  thinking  the  poor  dog  is  sick,  caress  him. 
But  this  saliva  is  now  fatal  to  human  life  if  it  enters  the  absorbents.  Only 
in  the  last  stages  of  the  disease  does  the  dog  become  furious  and  aggress- 
ive. 2.  Symptoms  affecting  the  digestive  organs :  Mad  dogs  do  not  always 
avoid  water;  many  will  drink  water  eagerly.  In  late  stages  of  the  disease 
a  contraction  of  the  throat  renders  them  unable  to  drink.  Even  then  they 
will  often  try  to  drink.  Some  rabid  dogs  lose  their  appetite,  but  others 
€at  as  usual'  or  even  more  than  usual.  Many  rabid  dogs  will  tear  and 
swallow  every  thing  thry  can  get  into  their  mouths.  We  ought  to  suspect  a 
dog  that  persistently  bites  at  and  swallows  things  unfit  for  food ;  except  in 
case  of  pups,  which  playfully  bite  every  thing.  It  is  supposed  that  mad 
dogs  always  '  froth  at  the  mouth.'  This  is  a  mistake.  They  '  froth '  during 
the  paroxysms  only.  But  they  are  equally  dangerous  at  other  times. 
Sometimes  the  lower  jaw  is  paralyzed  an4  hangs  oj^en ;  the  mouth 
becomes  dry,  dark  red,  and  covered  with  brown  spots;  the  eyes  are 
dull  and  gloomy ;  the  dog  can  not  bite,  but  his  saliva  may  fall  upon 
persons.  The  master  may  think  the  dog  has  a  bone  in  his  throat  and 
may  try  to  extricate  it.  But  this  is  highly  dangerous.  The  dog  often  vom- 
its blood  from  wounds  in  the  stomach,  made  by  swallowing* various  sharp 
articles.  The  master  may  incautiouslv  try  to  help  the  dog,  and  may  be  bit- 
ten, or  may  come  in  contact  with  the  ^og's  saliva,  which  may  enter  some  cut 
or  scrat^'h  on  the  hand.  3.  Symptoms  in  the  voice:  The  bark  of  a  mad-dog 
is  peculiar.  The  voice  is  generally  weaker  than  usual,  and  hoarse  and  sad. 
The  dog  does  not  fully  close  his  jaws  after  each  bark.  In  'dumb  madness.* 
the  dog  loses  his  voice.  4.  Symptoms  as  to  nervous  sensibility  :  A  mad-dog 
is  much  less  sensitive  to  pain,  often  even  indifferent  to  severe  burning  or 
cutting.  We  ought  to  suspect  every  dog  that  is  unnaturally  insensible  Ut 
pain,  especially  if  he  bites  him.self  severely.  A  mad-<log,  however  quiet,  will 
suddenly  grow  fierce  when  he  sees  another  dog.  The  rabid  animal  is  reck- 
lessly brave.  Chain  a  suspected  dog  and  show  him  another  dog;  if  he  be- 
comes furious,  kill  him.  Mad-dogs  often  run  away  from  home,  at  a  late  stage 
of  the  disease,  and  go  to  some  lonely  place,  to  die.  But  if  chased  they  will 
return  home.  Then  there  is  great  danger  that  the  unsuspecting  family  will, 
from  sympathy,  receive  their  lost  dog  with  open  arms,  to  learn,  too  late,  that 
he  is  rabia.  Suspect  every  such  dog,  and  close  the  doors  against  him  ;  and, 
if  possible,  shoot  him.  It  is  important  to  discover  hydrophobia  during  its 
early  stages,  before  it  is  too  late.  Watch  the  habits  of  animals,  esj>ecially 
dogs,  and  chain  them  securely  when  showing  unusual  symptoms. 

"Symptoms  of  confirmed  rabies,  or  madness;  The  eyes  have  a  sad,  dull, 
yet  fierce  expression.  Periods  of  excitement  and  of  stupor  alternate.  Par- 
oxysms generallj'  follow  some  exciting  cause.  Every  healthy  dog  has  an  in- 
stinctive dread  of  a  rabid  dog.  Powerful  and  fierce  dogs  will  flee  from  very 
small  rabid  dogs;  they  seem  to  instinctively  know  their  danger.  This  is  a 
good  test  of  a  (log's  condition.  Bring  other  dogs  into  his  presence,  and  if 
they  all  avoid  him  his  ca.*<('  is  very  suspicious.  After  the  di.^-case  has  herome 
confirmed,  the  dog  runs  along  at  first,  in  a  natural  gait,  attacking  every  thing 
he  meets,  especially  dogs.  But  he  becomes  exhausted,  and  runs  slowly,  and 
staggers.  His  head  and  tail  hang  down.  Tliis  is  the  generallv  recognized 
condition  of  mad-dogs,  but  it  is  only  the  last  stage.  The  dog  falKs,  and  appa- 
rently sleeps.  But  after  rest,  if  aroused,  he  will  run  again,  and  will  attack. 
But  if  not  disturbed  he  will  die  from  paralysis  and  asphyxitu 

"The  cat  sometimes  has  hydrophonia;  and  then  she  is  a  perfect  fury. 
Her  feline  nature  shows  itself:*  She  is  so  quick  she  is  very  dangerous.  Her 
eyes  are  wild  ;  her  hair  stands  up,  and  her  jaws  are  open.  In  later  stages  she 
will  crawl  under  .«<omething  and  die.  Whenever  a  cat  grows  restless,  without 
apparent  cause,  or  is  sad  and  stupid,  biting  at  her  bed,  and  at  other  things, 
it  IS  time  to  put  her  out  of  the  way. 


672  MISCELLANEOUS. 

**  Animals  do  not  00  mad  any  more  in  Sommer  than  in  Winter.  There  are 
as  many  road  animalB  in  cold  ooantriea  as  in  warm  conntries.  HnzzHn^ 
4og8  in  Summer  is  unnecessary  ;  in  fact  it  la  a  damage  to  them,  by  prevent- 
ing free  perspiration  through  the  tongue. 

"  In  human  beings  less  than  half  of  those  who  are  bitten  by  mad-dogs  ever 
have  hydrophobia.  But  very  few,  if  any,  in  whom  the  disease  is  actually 
developed  ever  recover.  In  most  cases  the  disease  is  manifested  within  two 
months  itfter  the  bite,  and  nearly  aU  the  cases  have  come  within  three 
roonthfi,  but  there  are  a  few  cases  recorded  which  developed  much  longer 
after  the  bite.  The  disease,  when  developed,  generally  lasts  from  one  to  fouf 
days.  Bites  on  the  unprotected  parts  of  the  body  are  naturally  more  daii' 
^reroiis.  as,  on  the  covered  parts,  the  clothing  may  absorb  the  saliva  of  the 
r  ibid  animal." 

To  MAKE  HsN8  Lay  IN  W INTER. — Keep  them  warm;  keep  corn  con- 
stantly by  them,  but  do  not  (eed  it  to  them.  Feed  tlietti  with  meat  scraps 
when  lanl  or  taliow  lias  iK'en  tried,  or  fresh  meat.  SSoiiie  chop  preen  pep- 
pers tinely,  or  mix  cayenne  pepi)er  with  corn-meal,  to  feed  them.  Let 
them  have  a  frequent  taste  of  green  food,  a  little  gravel  and  lime,  or  clam- 
shells. 

To  Remove  Oil  Marks  from  wall  paper  where  inconsiderate  people  rest 
their  heada  Take  pipe-clay  or  fiiller*s  earth,  and  make  into  a  paste,  about 
as  thick  as  ice-cream,  with  cold  water;  Ia>r  it  on  the  stain  gently  without 
rubbing  it  in ;  leave  it  on  all  night.  It  will  be  dry  by  morning,  when  it 
•an  be  brushed  otf,  and  unless  an  old  stain,  the  grease  spot  will  have  dis- 
appeared.    If  old,  renew  the  application. 

Contexts  op  (.'iktern. — The  lol lowing  gives  the  contents  of  a  cistern  for 
each  f(K»t  in  depth.  If  the  diameter  at  to^  and  bottom  differ,  strike  the 
average  and  use  that  as  the  basis  of  the  estimate 


5  feet  diameter    4.06  Ijarrels. 

8  feet  diameter 

11.93  barrels. 

6    '*            "           6.71 

9    •' 

15.10      •• 

7    "           "           9.13 

10     * 

18.(>5      *• 

Stove  Polish. — Add  to  one  pint  benzine,  one  ounce  pulverised  resin; 
when  dissolved,  mix  any  grxxl  and  Hn^iy  ground  black  lead,  using  the  above 
just  the  same  as  you  would  water  for  mixing  stove  polish.  Applj' with  a 
small  paint  brush,  and  rub  it  smooth,  as  it  dries  rapidly;  when  dry,  polish 
with  a  soft  stove  brush;  very  little  rubbing  is  required.  For  sheet-iron 
«se  the  benzine  and  resin  alone,  apply  with  soft  rags,  and  rub  rapidly  until 
dry  and  shining. 

To  Keep  Silk. — Silk  goods  should  not  be  folded  in  white  paper,  as  the 
chloride  of  lime  used  in  bleaching  the  paper  will  impair  the  color  of  the 
silk.  Brown  or  blue  paper  is  better;  yellow  India  paper  is  better  still. 
Silk  intended  for  dress  snould  not  be  kept  in  the  house  long,  as  lying 
In  folds  cau.ses  it  to  crack  or  split,  particularly  if  thickened  with  gum. 
White  satin  dresses  should  be  pinned  up  in  blue  paper,  with  coarse  brown 
pa]>er  on  the  outside,  sewed  together  on  the  edge. 

To  KEEP  PAiNT-BRUSHfcB. — TuHi  a  ucw  brusli  bristlcs  up,  open,  pour  in  a 
spoonful  of  good  varnish,  and  keep  in  that  ])osition  until  dry,  and  the  bris- 
tles will  never  "  shed"  in  painting.  The  varnish  also  keeps  it  from  shrinking 
niul  falling  to  pieces.  As  soon  as  a  job  is  finished,  wipe  brush  dean,  wrap 
in  piece  of  paper,  and  hang  it  in  a  small  deep  vessel  containing  oil,  letting 
the  brush  de.scend  into  the  oil  up  to  the  wrapping  cord.  This  will  keep 
painting  and  varnish  bruslies  clean  and  ready  for  use. 

Stammering. — If  not  caused  by  malformation  of  organs,  reading  aloud, 
with  the  teeth  closed,  for  at  least  two  liours  u  day  for  three  or  four  months 
will  cure  stammering. 

Note.— The  compilers  take  pleasure  in  acknowledging  their  indebtedness  for  many 
▼aluable  points  embodied  in  this  b(K)k,  to  "  Care  of  the  ^ick ;  "  "  Accidents  and  Emer- 
gencies; •'  "  Health  Hints,"  published  by  Cowan  &  Co.,  New  York;  ''In  the  Kitchen*** 
by  Mrs.  Elizabeth  S.  Miller,  and  many  other  excellent  works. 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


It  will  help  those  who  consult  this  book  to  remember  that  the  redpes  of 
each  department  in  Cookery,  as  well  as  the  departments  themselvefl,  are 
arranged  in  the  simple  order  of  the  alphabet,  so  far  as  has  been  possible,  and 
that  the  "  running  head  "  at  the  top  of  eacn  page  shows,  in  a  general  way^ 
the  subject  treat^.  The  ''Table  of  Contents"  (page  4)  gives  the  pages  ot 
the  various  departments.  The  following  is  a  full  alphabetical  index  of  the 
recipes  and  suDJecto  treated.  All  recipes  for  Cookery  appear  in  the  main 
index ;  those  relatii^  to  housekeeping  and  household  matters  generally  will 
be  found  under  the  Supplementary  Index: 


Page 

Alxonds .......160 

Bbelled 160-406 

To  blanch 80 

To  powder .%114 

To  sielect - 160 

Ambrosia 161 

Apples........ 123 

Baked 161 

Baked,  8weet 161 

Baked,  Sour 161 

Black  caps 162 

Compote 161 

Crontes -409 

Fried 162 

Iced 162 

Souce 161,  252 

Snow 107 

Sauce,  dried 252 

Sauce,  cider 252 

When  in  season 427 

Artichokes,  season  for 427 

Asparagus 324 

Ambushed 324 

Pried 325 

With  EgKS 325 

To  gather 321 

When  ill  season 427 

Btuts,  when  in  season. 427 

Btiking  Powder 3:5 

Bananas. 

Fried 162 

When  In  season 427 

Beans. 

Butter 826 

Dry  Lima .837 

String .337 

String,  canned 126 

WlthPork 327 

Wben  in  season 427 

Beef 409 

A  la  mode 196 

Corned,  boiled 196 

Croquettes 412 

Drewing 279 


Page 
Beef. 

Omelet ^^412 

Potted  - «.. 411 

Bagout  of 197 

Boast,  with  Padding.  ...197 

Roast ..^97 

Stewed ..198 

When  in  season 427 

Beefsteak. 

Broiled -^ IH 

Fried ^^ IW 

StuffM ........^ 414 

Toast ..406 

With  onions....... 195 


Beef  Tongub. 

Boiled.^ 196 

Spiced.- 198 

Beets .825 

Baked.- 826 

Greens. »..826 

Pickled 326 

Boasted 826 

When  in  season 427 

BEBRIBi. 

Canned 122 

Plain  canned 122 

Bills  of  Fabb. 

Christmas  dinner 403 

Fruits  in 880 

For  Spring 384-390 

For  Summer 391-396 

For  Fall 397-402 

For  Winter 384^03 

How  to  use 379 

New  Year's  Dinner 380 

New  Year*8  Lunch  for 

callers 404 

Refreshments  for  twen- 
ty  404 

Refreshments   for  one 
hundred  and  seventy 

five 404 

Thanksgiving  Dinner...401 


Page 
BiRne. 

Fire  for 167 

How  to  pluck 167 

Time  to  roast 168 

To  broil 167 

To  lard IfiS 

To  roast 168 

To  stnflf. 168 

Wild  flavor  of » 168 

Biscuit. 

Hard  tea 87 

High 37 

Maple 37 

South  Carolina, 38 

Soda 32 

Soda. 38 

Spoon 88 

Stole 38 

To  bake 31 

To  glaze 31 

To  knead 82 

To  make 31 

Blanc  Mange. 107 

Green 108 

Pink 108 

Yellow- 108 

ChocolaU*-. 108 

Raspberry ......108 

Blackberries. 

Dried 253 

When  in  season 427 

Blue  Fish,  season  for...-  427 

Boiled  Dinner 325 

Bonny  Clabber 412 

Bread  Crumbs -.• — 407 

For  pastry -4»»H 

Brant,  season  for 427 

Bream,  season  for 427 

Broccoli,  season  for 427 

Buckwheat,  season  for.  ...427 

Bread 7-32 

Brown 27 

Brown,  Boston 25 

Brown,  Missouri 27 

(673) 


:?*: 


674 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


Page 

Bbbad. 

Bread  with  rice.. 27 

ButtermiU.. 18 

Com 16 

Corn 28 

Clabber 27 

Com,  Are  for 16 

Corn,  Mrs.  B'B 28 

Corn,  boiled 28 

Com,  plain 29 

Corn,  steamed 29 

Com.  to  cut 16 

Cold  weather 12 

Doiigh  in  winter 13 

French  loaves 11 

Flour  for 8 

Forefather's 28 

Grahiira 29 

Omham 30 

Graham,  fire  for 16 

Good  18 

Graham,  quick 30 

Hop-yeast 19 

Hot  weather U 

In  Bummer ^ 24 

In  winter 24 

Making 10 

Oven  for 12 

Rye 30 

Rye 31 

Ryo  and  Indian 30 

Pan 10 

Baking  pan 10 

I'oor  man'8. 20 

Potiito  s|X>uge 19 

Potato 20 

Ready  for  oven 12 

RiiiseJi  once 21 

Raised  twice 23 

Raised  three  times 23 

Salt  Rising 25 

Sour  12 

To  bake 12 

To  cool 19 

To  knead 11 

To  mix 10 

To  salt 12 

When  too  hard 13 

When  done 13 

With  mush 27 

Buns  34 

Butter. 

Apple 250 

Caper las 

Drawn lJi3 

Effg  250 

Loraon  250 

Pie  Plant 251 1 

Pumpkin 250  1 

Scotch  114 

For  decorating, 348 

Cabbagb. 

Boiled 325 

(breamed 331  ! 

DeUcate 331  , 

Fried ^31  1 

Heidelberg 330 

Southern 332 

Stuflfed 332  I 

Season  for - 427  ' 


P»ge 
Cake. 

Almond 66 

Angel's  Food 65 

Black 66 

Black 67 

Breakfast! 34 

Blue-Grass 67 

Bride's 67 

Buford 66 

Butter  for GO 

Caramel 60 

Cinnamon ~ 34 

Cincinnati 69 

Citron  for 62 

Chocolate 69 

Choice  Fig 73 

Cocoa-nut 66 

Cocoa-nut 69 

Coffee 68 

Com  Starch 68 

Cbro  Meal 408 

Currants  for  fruit 62 

i^eiicace  ..»•>••••••••••••.••••.  o«r 

Design  for 859-361 

Desert  cake 360 

Design  for  top 861 

Design  for  side 861 

Eggless 70 

Eggs  for 59 

Election.  Old  Hartfbrd.  70 

Everlasting. 70 

Frait w 71 

Fmit 72 

Fmit,  Apple 70 

Fmit,  excellent 72 

Fmit.  loaf. 71 

Fruit,  Poor  Man's. 72 

Fmit,  pan  for. 64 

Fmit,  Scotch 72 

Groom's 73 

Hard  money 78 

Hickory 78 

Hickory  nut. 66 

Hickory  nut 74 

How  to  beat 60 

How  to  mix 60 

Imperial 74 

Lady's  74 

Lady's  Yellow 74 

Lemon 74 

Loaf,  Aunt  Hetde's 75 

Ix)af,  French 75 

Loaf,  old  fashioned...A.  75 

Making 59-61 

Marble  75 

Marbled  Chocolate 76 

Milk  for 60 

Molasses 101 

One  egg 76 

Oranpe 76 

Oven  for 63 

Pans  for 63 

Pai>ercap  for 63 

Southern  KiKhts« 78 

Pound,  Citron 76 

Pound,  Pyramid 76 

Pound,  White 77 

Rice 77 

Snow  and  Seed 78 

yponge  77 

Sponge,  Mrs.  J's 78 


Cake. 

Spice 4 7S 

Temperance 61 

Tea 39 

Ten-minnte...^.^ 79 

Thanksgiving 72 

Tilden 79 

Time  to  bake 63 

Tennessee 7^ 

To  beat  eg^  for 60 

To  color 93 

To  ice 349-850 

To  mix  fmit 61 

To  test 54 

To  test  oven 64 

Watermelon 79 

Wedding 79 

Where  to  keep. 6S 

When  rough 91 

Whortleberrv 79 

White  perfection 89 

Whipped  Cream ^..  68 

Cakes,  La  veil 

Almond  Cream 8i 

Caramel 83 

Chocolate 84 

Chocolate,  delicious. 84 

Cocoa-nut 83 

Cup 84 

Design  for  top 4153 

Design  for  Deasert. 3S3 

Dominoes 84 

Fig 83 

French  Cream 82 

Golden  Cream 82 

Hard  Times 86 

Hickory-nut, 86 

Ice  Cresm 83 

Kelley  Island.. 86 

Lemon 9f 

Metropolitan 88 

Minnehaha 87 

Neapolitan 83 

Orange 38 

Orange  — . —  89 

Peach 89 

Ribbon 89 

Rolled  Jelly 85 

Snow  favorite 89 

Sponge,  velvet. 90 

Thanksgiving 89 

To  bake 80 

To  build 80 

To  cut 80 

To  ornament ....368 

Vanity 99 

White  Mountato. 90 

Cakes. 

Adals  Sugar. 97 

Breakfast  and  Tea..  ...31-83 

English  Banbury «  375 

Ginger lOO 

Glngeixlrop JOl 

Hickory-nut ....117 

Candy. 

Any  flavor. 115 

Hoarhound 117 

Ice  Cream 116 

Lemon  ....117 

Molasses.. ... — US 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


G7.3 


Candy. 

Syrup  for 113 

Stick lis 

Cans. 

Gla§8  119 

Glass,  to  prepare 12() 

HowtoflU 120 

Putty  for liy 

Rubber  riiiKsfor 121 

Self-Sealers. 121  i 

Stoneware 119 

Tocleau 119 

To  seal 119 

Canning. 

Fruit  for 119 

For  pies 120 

How  done 120 

Sugar  for 120 

CARA^MBIiB  115 

Chocolate 116 

Cocoa-nut 116 

Cabrots. 

When  in  season 427 

Stewed 827 

Catsups 128 

Cucumber. 129 

Currant 129 

Fruit  for 128 

Gooseberry 129 

Mold  on 128 

To  make 128 

Tomato 129 

Walnut 136 

Caulipowkr. 

Boiled 329 

Ettcaloped 330 

Baked 330 

When  in  season 427 

Celery,  season  for 427 

Charlotte-russe 104 

Charlotte-russe 105 

ChantlUy,  custard 86*^ 

Design  for 355 

Chrese. 410 

Cottage 413 

Pigshead 204 

Cherries. 

Canned 125 

Dried 21:) 

When  in  season 427 

Chestnuts,  season  for 427 

Chicken. 

Baked 275 

Baked  Spring 275 

Baked  with  Parsnips.. .27.') 

Broiled 270 

Breaded 276 

Croquettes 276 

Croquettes  with  Riee..412 

Chili  colorad 276 

Dressing 279 

For  Lunch 277 

Fricasseed 279 

Fried  Spring 280 

Fried  Gumbo 280 

Gravy  without  Cream.  280 
Jellied '280 


Page 

Chicken. 

Pickled  281 

Pressed 281 

Pie  278 

Pie  with  Oysters 278 

Pot-pie 209-277 

Pudding 279 

Roast 279 

Steamed 281 

Stuffed  274 

To  cut  up '273 

To  decorate 347 

Chocolate. 142 

Vienna 143 

Season  for 427 

Chub,  season  for 427 

Cider 143 

Bottled 143 

Chow-chow 257 

Clam. 

Chowder 296 

Fried 296 

Pie  296 

Stew 296 

When  in  season 427 

Cobbler. 

Apple .222 

Fniit  222 

Peach  222 

Plum... 222 

Cocoa 142 

Cocoa-nut 160 

For  cake 65 

Cod  Fish. 

A  la  mode 154 

Balls.. 155 

Boiled  15-1 

Boiled,  fresh 154 

Katy's 157 

Coloring  por  Cakes,  etc. 

Rose 93 

Confectionery 113 

Coffee 137 

Army 141 

Filtered 139 

For  twenty 141 

For  one  hundred 141 

How  U")  make 138 

'^ot,  home-made 1.39 

otenmed 141 

To  roa.st 137 

Vienna 142 

With  whipiwd  cream  ...141 

Cookies 97 

Eggless 97 

Good  98 

Ginger 100 

Nutmeg 98 

Oven  for 97 

Cooks  Time-table 409-425 

Corn. 

Canned 126 

And  Tomatoes  cunned.126 
And  Tomatoes  cooked. .328 

Boiled 327 

Canned 126 

Dried 245,328 

Green,  pudding 329 


rag* 
Corn. 

Hulled  473 

Stewed 328 

To  preserve 32^ 

When  in  season 427 

Crackers. 

l^g 45 

French  45 

Crabs. 

Deviled ^ 297 

When  in  season -. 427 

Cracked  Wheat 4H 

Warmed 48 

Baked  on  griddle 4tS 

Cracknels 43 

Cranberries,  season  for.... 427 

Creams 102 

Bohemian 103 

Gelatine  for 102 

Hamburg 105 

How  to  beat 102 

Italian 105 

Peach  104 

Pine-apple 104 

Riispbenry 106 

Rock 106 

Strawberry 103 

Spanish  105 

Tiipioca 105 

Whipped  105 

Whipped 107 

Cream  Tartar 3S 

Rule  for Ki 

Creaprecies 377 

Crullers  95 

Fat  for ; m 

Crumpets 4Z 

('urr>'- powder V^2 

Cucumbers,  season  for.. ..427 

Currants. 

Canned 12S 

Dried 183,  253,  245 

Iced 162 

Preserved 123 

Spiced 2r»6 

Season  for 427 

Custards 102 

Apple 107 

Apple  Snow 107 

Bilked 102 

Boiled 102,109 

Choei)l{»te 109 

Flavor  for 103 

Good  baked 110 

Gelatine  11» 

Hidden  Mountnin Ill 

Kettle 102 

Lemon 110 

Orange  Float Ill 

Oranvre  Sonfflfi 112 

Prune  Whip 112 

Snow 110 

rrvstttUization  .'i47 

(Vmlings, 'M2 

Damsons,  season  for 4J7 

Dandelions 332 

Dessert- Russe '362 

Dodgers,  Corn 45 


674 


(NDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


n. 


p«if<» 


Bread  with  rice 27 

ButterniiU. 18 

Com 16 

Com 28 

ClablMT 27 

Com,  fire  for 16 

Com,  Mrs.  B'b 28 

Com.  boiled 28 

Cora,   plain 29 

Corn,  stoamed 29 

Corn,  loriit 16 

CoNl  weather 12 

Dtiiigh  ill  winter. 13 

FnMu'lj  loaves. 11 

Flour  for 8 

rDH'iathor's 28 

•  ir.ilumi 29 

Omham 30 

ftrHham.  fire  for 16 

(Jootl  18 

Omham,  quick 30 

Hop- yeast 19 

Hot  weather 11 

In  hummer 24 

In  winter 24 

Making 10 

Oven  for 12 

Rvf iM) 

n\\' 31 

Rvo  and  Indian 30 

Pan 10 

Baking  pan 10 

Poor  mfin'8 20 

Potato  H}X)nge 19 

Potato 20 

R.'Hily  for  oven 12 

Rai'^eii  once 21 

R^iised  twice 23 

RuI^i'jI  thrt'e  times 23 

Suit  Rising 25 

.Sour  12 

To  bnke 12 

To  cool 19 

Tn  knead 11 

To  mix 10 

To  salt 12 

^^lu'n  too  hard 13 

Wlu'U  done 13 

^Vith  mush 27 

Buns  31 

Butter. 

Apple 250 

Caper 13:{ 

Dniwn V-^i 

Ejzg  2:10 

Lt-mon  2r)0 

Pic  Plant 251 

Pumpkin 2oO 

Peotch  IH 

For  decorating, 34b 

Carbaoe. 

lioiled 32o 

(  H'amed  xn 

DeUcate 3:?1 

Fried 3:^1 

Heidelberg 3:U) 

Southern :J.'V2 

StuflfM 3:V2 

Season  for..........*^ 427 


Pftg« 
Cakb. 

Almond 66 

AngePflFood 65 

Black 66  ' 

Black 67 

BreakfiistI 84  , 

Blue-Grass 67 

Bride's 67 

Buford 66 

Butter  for 60 

Caramel 69 

Cinnamon 34 

Cincinnati 69 

Citron  for 62 

Chocolate 69 

Choice  Fig 73 

Cocoa-nut 66 

Cocoa-nut 69 

Coflfee 68 

Cora  Starch 68 

Com  Meal 408 

Currants  for  fralt 62 

Delicate 69 

Design  for 859-361 

Desert  cake 360 

Design  for  top 961 

Design  for  side 861 

Eggless  70 

Kegs  for - 59 

Klectlon,  Old  Hartlbrd.  70 

Everlasting 70 

Fruit ~ 71 

Fmit 72 

Fruit,  Apple 70 

Fmit,  excellent 72 

Fruit,  loaf. 71 

Fruit,  Poor  Man's. 72 

Fmit  pan  for. 64 

Fruit,  Scotch 72 

Groom's 78 

Hard  money 78 

Hickory 73 

Hickory  nut •  66 

Hickory  nut 74 

How  to  beat 60 

How  to  mix 60 

Imperial 74 

Lady's  74 

Lady's  Yellow. 74 

I^emon 74 

IjORf,  Aunt  Hettie's 75 

I>oaf,  French 75 

Loaf,  old  fashioned....*..  75 

Making 69-61 

Marble  75 

Marbled  Chocolate 76 

Milk  for 60 

Molasses 101 

One  egg 76 

Orange 76 

Oven  for 63  i 

Pans  for 63 

Paper  cap  for 63 

hoiitncTii  liiKhts 78 

Pound,  Citron 76 

Ponnd,  P>'ramid 76 

Pound,  White 77 

Rice 77 

S^now  and  Si'ed 78 

SSponge    77 

Sponge,  Mrs.  J's 78 


Cake. 

Spice  • * 78 

TempeTunoe ~..  61 

Ten-minute.....^. 79 

Thankagivlng..... 72 

Tilden 79 

Time  to  bake 68 

Tennessee 7-.^ 

To  beat  eggs  for GO 

Tocolor 98 

To  lee 349-850 

To  mix  fruit 61 

To  test 64 

To  test  oven 64 

Watermelon 79 

Wedding 79 

Where  to  keep. 65 

When  rough.... 91 

Whortleberrv 79 

White  perfection 80 

Whipped  Cream 68 

Cakes,  layeb. 

Almond..- 80 

Almond  Cream.. 81 

Caramel 88 

Chocolate 84 

Chocolate,  delicious 84 

Cocoa-nut 88 

Cup 84 

Design  for  top 858 

Design  for  I>a»ert 358 

Dominoes 84 

Fig 85 

French  Cream 82 

Golden  Cream 82 

Hard  Times 86 

Hickory-nut 88 

Ice  Cream 88 

Kelley  Island...*.. — ....  88 

Lemon ttt 

Metropolitan 88 

Minnehaha 87 

Neapolitan 88 

Orange  88 

Orange  89 

Peach 89 

Ribbon 80 

Rolled  Jelly -..  86 

Snow  favorite 89 

Sponge,  velvet 90 

Thanluqg^iving 89 

To  bake 80 

To  build 80 

To  cut 80 

To  ornament .368 

Vanity 90 

White  Mountain 90 

Cakes. 

Ada's  Sugar. 97 

Breakfast  and  Tea... ..81-88 

English  Banbury .375 

Ginger 100 

Ginger-drop 101 

Hickory-nut 117 

Candy. 

Any  flavor. 115 

Hoarhound 117 

Ice  Cream 115 

Lemon  ....117 

Molaases.. ...~.~.~. 118 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


G75 


P»ge 
Caitdy. 

Syrup  for 118 

Stick 113 

Cans. 

Olav 119 

Glass,  to  prepare 120 

How  to  fill 120 

Putty  for 119 

Rubber  rings  for 121 

Self-Sealers. 121 

Stoneware 119 

Tocleau 119 

To  seal 119 

Canning. 

Fruit  for 119 

For  pies 120 

How  done 120 

Sugar  for 120 

Caramels 115 

Chocolate 116 

Cocoa-nut 116 

Cabrots. 

Wiien  in  season 427 

Stewed 327 

Catsups 128 

Cucumber. 129 

Currant 129 

Fruit  for 128 

Goaseberry 129 

Mold  on 1"28 

To  make 128 

Tomato 129 

Walnut 136 

Caulipower. 

Boiled 329 

Escaloped 330 

Baked A3f) 

When  in  season 427 

Celery,  season  for 427 

Charlotte- RUSSE 104 

Charlotte-russe 105 

Chantilly,  custard 363-4 

Design  for 355 

Cheese 410 

Cottage 4ia 

Pigshead 204 

Cherries. 

Canned 125 

Dried 215 

When  in  season 127 

Chestnuts,  season  for 427 

Chicken. 

Baked 275 

Baked  Spring 275 

Baked  with  Parsnips.. ..275 

Broiled 276 

Breaded  276 

Croquettes 276 

Croquettes  with  Rice..  412 

Chill  colorad 276 

Dressing 279 

For  Lunch 277 

Frlca'weed : 279 

Fried  Spring 280 

Fried  Gumbo 280 

Gravy  without  Cream.. '280 
JeUled 'iSO 


Page 

Chicken. 

Pickled  281 

Pressed 281 

Pie  278 

Pie  with  Oysters 278 

Potrpie 209-277 

Pudding 279 

Roast 270 

Steamed 281 

Stuffed  274 

To  cut  up .273 

To  decorate 847 

Chocolate 142 

Vienna. 143 

Season  for 427 

Chub,  season  for 4*27 

Cider 143 

Bottled 143 

Chow-chow 257 

Clam. 

Chowder 296 

Pried 296 

Pie  296 

Stew -296 

When  in  season 427 

Cobbler. 

Apple .222 

Fruit  .222 

Peacift  222 

Plum 222 

Cocoa 142 

CocoA-NUT 160 

For  cake 65 

Cod  Fish. 

A  la  mode 154 

Balls 155 

Boiled  154 

Boiled,  fresh lot 

Coloring  por  Cakes,  etc. 

Rose 93 

Confectionery 113 

Coffee 137 

Army 141 

Filtered 139 

For  twenty 141 

For  one  hundred 1 11 

How  to  make 138 

"•ot,  home-made 18^) 

otcamed 141 

To  roast 137 

Vienna 142 

With  whipjMid  cream ...141 

Cookies 97 

Eggless  97 

GfKHl  98 

Ginger 100 

Nutmeg 98 

Oven  for 97 

(:or>lcs  Time-table 409-425 

Corn. 

Canned 126 

And  Tomatoes  canned. 126 
And  Tomatoes  cooked. 328 

Boiled 327 

Canned 126 

Dried 245,328 

Green,  pu<lding 329 


Page 
Corn. 

Hulled  -472 

Stewed -328 

To  preserve 321> 

When  in  season 427 

Crackers. 

Egg 45 

French  45 

Crabs. 

Deviled « 297 

When  In  season ^ 427 

Cracked  Wheat 48 

Warmed 48 

Baked  on  griddle 48 

Cracknels 43 

Cranberries,  season  for.. ..427 

Creams 102 

B<^)hemlan 103 

Gelatine  for 1(j2 

Hamburg 106 

How  to  beat 102 

Italian 105 

Peach  IM 

Pine-apple 104 

Raspberry 10ft 

Rock 106 

Strawberry 103 

Spanish  106 

'fapioca 106 

Whipped  106 

Whipped 107 

Cream  Tartar 3g 

Rule  for :« 

Creaprecies 377 

Crullers i>5 

Fill  for ; W 

\    1  U. Ill P^Ul  •■••■••■■«■•■••••«•■•-*■    'i*'^ 

(Jnrry-powder VV2 

Cucumbers,  season  for.. ..427 

Currants. 

CanncHl 12S 

Dried 183.  253,  245 

Iced 162 

Preserved 123 

Spiced  2fi6 

Season  for 427 

Custards 102 

Apple H»7 

Apple  Snow 107 

Balced 102 

Boiled 102,  1(K> 

Choeolato 109 

Flavor  for 103 

G<>o<l  baked 110 

Gelatine  110 

Hidden  Mountftin Ill 

Kettle 102 

I^mon 110 

Orange  Float Ill 

Omntre  Sonffl6 112 

Prune  Whip 112 

Snow 110 

rrvstalllzation  .'U7 

rymllngs -42 

Damsons,  setujcm  for 427 

Dandelions 302 

Dessort-Ru.sse '362 

Dodgers,  Com 45 


676 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


p«go 


DOUOHNUTB M-96 

Berlin W 

Fat  for. W 

Corn  Meal %  , 

Cream a'S 

North  Star. 96 

Oily  Koeka W 

Raised 96 

Doves,  season  for 427 

Drinks 137 

Drops.^ 
Almmid  Cream 


(Viitennial.... 

Chocolate 

C(K'oa-nut 

Ginger 

Waluul 

DurK 

Boiled 

For  invalids.. 

Roast 

Salmi  of 

Stewed  cold.. 
Season  for 


116 

115  , 

IIG  I 

116 

101 

116 

168 

172 

169 

172 

17:j 

172 

4*27 

Dumplings. 

Apple,  baked 228 

Apple,  boiled 227 

Apple,  rolled 22.S 

Peach,  baked 22S 

Egos 14o,  410 

Baked 147 

Boiled 147 

Boiled 145 

Birds'  nest 147 

Curried 147 

Frizzle<l  Ham  and 148 

Poached 148 

i»Ickled 149 

Scalloped 147 

Scrambled 149 

Stuffed 149 

Time  to  cook 145 

To  test 145 

To  keep 150 

To  fry 145 

Season  for 427 

^G -PLANT. 

Bilked 333 

Fried. 332 

In  cakes ;«:^  ' 

Eels,  to  fry li'^ 

Mdirberries,  season  for.. .427 

Fat 49 

And  drippings .415 

Favorites,  Sweetie's. 412 

Fish LSI 

Buked 15:5 

Bi.iled 151 

Boiled  Whit« 155 

•Broiled  White 155  I 

Chowder 156 

Fresh,  potted 157 

Fried 156 

Garnishes  for 153 

Kettle, 152 

Pan 157 

Stewed 158 

To  make  firm 153 


Page 
Fish. 

To  fry 162 

When  frosen 151 

Wire  basket  for 152 

Rock  and  Salmon 15H 

Flour 7-8 

Buckwheat 62 

Ornham 16 

Potato 866 

Floating  Island 109 

Fonchoneltes 877 

Force  Meat  Balls 406 

Fragments 879 

Food  for  the  Sick. 

Alum  Whey 867 

Beef-tea 573 

Be(>f-tea  Soup 668 

Broth.  Beef ..665 

Barley-water 568 

Baked  Milk 567 

Beef,  raw 668,  573 

Beef  Broth 512 

Buttermilk 568 

Blackberry  Wine 570 

Black l)errv  Cordial 571 

Boiled  Flour 573 

Buttermilk  Stew 567 

Bran  Biscuit 671 

Brullcil  Beefsteak 570 

Broiled  Chicken 868 

Broiled  Quail 568 

Broth,  Chicken 567 

(■Innamon  Tea. 569 

Cream  Soup 567 

Crust  Coffee 567 

Corn-meal  Gruel 573 

Cracked  -  wheat     Pud- 
ding  570 

Currant,  Shrub 568 

Custard,  Arrowroot 569 

Custard,  Sago 567 

Drinkfi 565 

E^K<}niel 567 

EpK.  raw 570 

Fever  Drink 568 

(Jrease  on  Broths 5<?7 

Graham  Gems 5(>9 

Jelllce 56.S 

Kumyss 571 

Meat  for  invalids 672 

Milk  Porridge 571 

Mutton  Broth 570 

Mulled  Buttermilk 568 

Oat-meal    568 

Oatmeal  Oniel 56H 

Ortt-meal  Cakes 570 

Oat-nieal  Pie-crust 570 

Out-meal  Wafers 571 

Oiit-meal  Crackers 572 

Old  time  food 572 

Panada 569 

Pearled-wheat  Pudd'g..567 

Raspberry  Relish 567 

Raspt>erry  Vinegar 569 

Royal  Strawberry  Acid.5«W 

Prepjired  Flour 571 

Rice  Jelly 569 

Rice-water 573 

Rieo.  parched 567 

St\go  Custard 667 


Pag« 

Food  fob  nrc  Srcx. 

Sago  Jelly  Pudding 56» 

oasBuras  x m.  .».»»p.»«.«....oof 

Sea-moss  Farine ^..568 

Shrub,  Currant .....66S 

Stewed  OysteiB. 670 

Tapioca  Jelly 668 

Tamarind  Whey .867 

Toast 571 

Uncooked  Egg 670 

Vegetable  Soup 568 

Wine  Whey J67 

FricatelU 201 

Fried  Cakes 96 

FBriTERS 49 

Alabami 49 

Apple 56 

Cuim - 60 

Com-Oyster^ 60 

Cream SO 

Egg-plant -832 

Fat  for 49 

Fruit 49 

Lemon  66 

Oyster 61 

Pork 49 

To  Improve «...  49 

Vanity 81 

Frogs. 

i     Broiled 201 

Fricaaaeed 291 

Frostwo 91 

Frosting 92 

Almond 92 

Boiled 92 

Boiled  Almond 92 

•     Chocolate 92 

I     KgglefB 98 

I     Eggs  for 91 

Gelatine 93 

I     Hickory-nut 92 

I     Minnesota 93 

I     Ornamental 93,  346,  968 

I     Pink 98 

,      Rose  coloring 93 

Yellow 98 

Fruit 189 

I      Dessert  of 389 

I     Dried,  to  keep 246 

'     Frapp«fies 177 

Florida  Grape 166 

Sliced,  to  serve 160 

Fuel,  value  of 346 

Game 167 

Broiled ^ 167 

Delicate  dressing. .«. 166 

Garnishes  for 169 

Time  to  roaat 168 

To  lard 168 

Wild  flavor  of 168 

j  Gems. 

I     Cold  Water 46 

!     Graham 46 

Mrs.  B.'s 47 

Sw«H  Milk 47 

Wheaten 44 

Giblets,  to  boil. ........278 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


677 


OlNOBRBSKAD 

Alam M 

Excellent  soft 

Training-day 

Sponge MM-.M 

Gbebje. 
To  parboil... ....... 

To  roast 

When  in  season.. 


■••••••••••  ••••< 


Page 

99 
•••  V9 
...100 

...100 


...168 
...171 
...427 

12s 
...123 
...266 
...427 
...162 


GOOSEBERBICS. 

Canned 

Spiced 

When  in  season. 
Gooseberry  Fool... 

UnAFES        iim    ittt  •••tmt'/SS   li»^ 

Spiced V.266 

When  in  season...... 427 

Oravy,  to  make......... 414 

Greens,  preserve  color 321 

Grits 48 

Griddlk-cakbs 61 

Batter 53 

Bread 58 

Buckwheat. 52 

\/'aroima  .........**.••..«...•..  Ow 

Crumb 58 

Flannel 63 

French 62 

Graham 61 

Uorsford 52 

Indian ,....  54 

Rice 51 

Gridiron,  best 193 

Guinea-fowl,  season  for...427 

Haddock,  season  for. 427 

Halibut,  season  for 427 

Ham 411 

Balls 408 

BoUed 201 

Boned 201 

Broiled 202 

Delicious  fried 202 

Esciiloped  415 

Grated 415 

Stuffbd .415 

To  decomte ..347 

Hare,  jumped 169 

Han'^est  drink... 143 

Hash  - 406 

Turkey ^406 

Heart,  stuflbd ^..209 

Herbs,  when  in  season.. ..427 

ilERRINQ. 

Baked 167 

Season  for 427 

Hd'-cake...! 46 

Hominy 48.  829 

Horse-radish. 

For  winter 1.38 

Season  for 427 

ICB-CR£AM 174 

Ice-cream .- 17? 

Ice-cream .« 178 

Chocolate .~ 177 

Chocolate  fruit 177 

Cocoa-nnt 175 


ICB-CBEAM. 

Coffee. 


Page 


^glesB. 
Flav 


....175 

177 

favor  for 175 

Kentucky 179 

Lemon 178 

Molds  for 176 

Orange 178 

Peach «....178 

Pine-apple 178 

Raspberry.. 175 

SellQreealng. 176 

Strawberry 175 

Strawberry 178 

Tea l^ 

Tofreese~ 174 

ICKS. 

Apple 179 

Currant.. 170 

Lemon 179 

Vf  rRii  0  p  ••••■••••«•••  ••■•■•••••••X  4  kf 

strawberry J79 

Water 180 

Icing,  ornamental 34&-368 

Blue 3.t,s 

Green 318 

Yellow ai8 

Merinxue .354 

C/hocolate...  .....m.......^.oijo 

Chocolate  Cream 357 

For  Wedding  Cake a')7 

For  Flat-topOake 357 

How  to  use m ^..358 

To  decorate......... .358 

To  prepare......... 359 

J  ABIS. 188 

Blackberry .. 189 

Currant  ........M.....M.......188 

Gooseberry .«. .189 

French «... ~..189 

Plum 189 

Raspberry.. 189 

Stirrer  for....... 188 

Strawberry - 189 

Sugar  for. 188 

To  keep 188 

To  put  up 188 

Jelly 181 

Apple 182 

Apple  and  Quince 186 

Aspic 410 

Bag 186 

Blackberry 182 

Calves'-foot.f. ..........182 

Coffee 184 

Crab-apple - 184 

Cranberry 183 

Currant 183,  253 

Kaster 184 

Four-fruit.. 185-9 

For  decorating. 348 

Grape 185 

.  In  Summer.. 182 

liemon 185 

Oranee 185 

Peach 186 

Pie  Plant -. 187 

Flam 185 


Pag» 
Jellt. 

To  put  up ..— 182 

v\  ine 1  "♦ 

Wild  Plum 186 

Johnny-cake. 46 

Alabama 46 

Jumbles. 98 

Confederate. 08 

To  finish. 97 

Kidneys,  stewed 207 

Kisses. 

Baltimore 114 

Pan  for 118 

Lamb. 
Chops 200 

Stewed,  with  Pease......20O 

Season  for... 427 

Lemons. 

To  select. 159 

Season  for 427 

Lancashire  Pie 408 

Lady's  Fingers. 87 

Lemonade 143 

Lettuce,  wilted. .333 

LrvER. 

Fried 198 

Larded 199 

Ix}bster8,  season  for 427 

Macaroni.. ~.... 333 

Boiled 383 

With  Tomatoes 334 

Itiilian 334 

Macaroons. 

Almond .^......114 

Hickory-nut 117 

Mackerel. 

Salt  boiled .410 

When  in  season 427 

Mangoes. 260 

Marmalade 244-251 

Cmb-apple 186 

Crab-apple  for  pies  .^....186 

Orange 251 

Poach 251 

Quince 252 

Wild  Plum.. 186 

Meats 190 

Broiling 192 

Fnwen 193 

Fr>'ing 193 

Garnishes  for 190 

Pie 410-415 

Roasting 191,  litt 

Time  to  bake 192 

J€lly 286 

With  dressing 10-_» 

Melons 159 

How  to  serve 159 

Nutmeg,  to  serve 159 

Meringues. 117 

Meringue 211 

Meringue  top 355-6 

MiNCF.-MEAT 219 

Applelcss 218 

To  make  pies  of .219 

To  pack <219 


678 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


tfolasses,  to  clarify 408 

Slooiuihiue Ill 

Muffins ;>o 

Cora 45 

Graham 47 

Wheat. 44 

MUHH. 

Blackberry 'J29 

Cum 4(i 

Fried 40 

Graham 47 

Grahtnn,  fried 47 

Oat-meal  47 

Mushrooms, season  for.. ..427 
Musk-melons,  season  U)t.  427 
lEustard,  prepared ISH 

Boiled,  Caper  Sauce 2(W 

Chops 2CI0 

Pie  with  Tomatoes. 408 

When  in  season 427 

Nutmeg-melon,  spiced 26() 

Nut-taffy.  Aunt  Top's lis 

Oat-meal,  steamed 48 

Okra. 

Boiled. 384 

And  Tomatoes. 334 

Omelet 146 

Baked 146 

Beef -112 

Cheese 147 

Etisily  made 146 

Ham 140 

Puff 1*?> 

To  make 14(> 

Washington 150 

With  Parsley 117 

Onions. 

Baked .'..rm 

Boiled Jtr> 

Fried 8:iT 

When  in  season 427 

Oranges. 

In  Jelly 163 

To  select 159 

Float Ill 

Pyramid 163 

Souffle 112 

When  In  BeaiK)U 427 

Ornamental  Icing ai&-36S 

Oysters 2l>5 

Boiled  2«7 

Tiroiled 297 

Broiled  with  Pork 2<>7 

Croquettes ^.l? 

Curried 2*18 

Deviled 298 

Escaloped 2^>8 

For  wups 29.'> 

Fried 29S) 

Fricafiseed 800 

Frittere 301 

Omelet 301 

Panned 301 

Patfi  a  pyramid 372 

Pickles 302 

Pie .301 


Png<» 

Oysters. 

Raw 302 

Roll 302 

Shell  303 

Steamed :r« 

To  fry 2y5 

Walled  3(W 

When  in  season 427 

I'ARSNIPS. 

Baked JWO 

Fried 340 

In  cak(>s. :«3  ' 

Slewed  „ 340 

Partridges,  170  , 

Paste 212  | 

Good  common 212  i 

Graham 212  I 

Short 371 

With  Suet 214 

Wholesome  8hortenlng.210 

Pastry. 
General  instructiona...210 

Ornamental 369-378 

French  Butter  for -S70 

From  Butter 3*59 

From  Lard 369 

Suet  for 370 

Pawpaws,  season  for 428 

Peaches 159 

Baked 163 

Canned 123 

Canned,  steamed 123 

Canned 124 

Dried 245 

Frozen 164 

Peach. 

Cusard 166 

FiKs 2S3 

Meringue 165 

Pvramid 164 

Rolls 234 

Pears 159 

Baked ~ 163 

Canned 124 

Compote ~ 164 

Season  for 428 

Pease. 

Green 840 

In  Cream 340 

Season  for 428 

Pepi>er-nuts 98 

Pheasant,  broiled 169 

Pie  Plant. 

Baked 163 

Canned 124 

Stewed  163 

Pickerel. 

Baked 153 

Season  for 428 

Pickles 254 

Alum  in 254 

Artichokes 255 

Bean 256 

Bottled 256 


Page 
Pickleb. 

Butteraut 264 

Celery 258 

Cauljilower 270 

Chow-chow 257 

Chopped 259 

Cucumber 258 

French 262 

Kettle  for 254 

Onions. 262 

Peach  Mangoes 261 

I'eppers 262 

Piccalilli 262 

Pyfer 262 

Ripe  Tomato 263 

Simnish 268 

Toboitle 254 

To  put  up 254 

Virginia  mixed 261 

Wahiut 264 

Pickles. 

Sweet 265 

Sweet .....407 

Beet 265 

Clingstone 267 

Currant 266 

Grape 266 

Peach 267 

Pear 267 

Pine-apple 268 

Plum,  euchred 268 

Riiisin 268 

Ripe  ('ucuniber... 270 

Strawberry- 268 

Tomato,  green 268 

Tomato,  ripe 269 

Water-melon 269 

Pieb ......210 

Apple  custard ......215 

Apple-butter  custard.  ...412 

Apple  meringue 214 

Apple,  sliced 215 

Btmana 215 

C  herrv 218 

Chess 217 

Crab-apple 216 

Crumb 216 

Currant,  green 217 

Currant,  ripe 217 

Custard 217 

Cream .216 

Corn-starch 216 

Cocoa-nut 216 

Deep  Fruit 874 

Dried-apple 215 

Dried-peach 221 

Eggless  Squash 412 

Lemon 218 

Meringue  for 211 

Mince 220 

Mock  Mince 220 

Orange - 220 

Peach 220 

Peach 221 

Pie-plant 220 

Pie-plant,  frosted 220 

Pine-apple 222 

Potato .221 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPESi 


679 


Page 
Pies. 

Potato,  Sweet .^^...^ 

Pumpkin «.  221-224 

Mince,  Temperance 219 

Southern  Tomato .222 

Tins  for 2U 

To  bake  Fruit. 211 

Tomato,  green ^...222 

To  prevent  bursting 211 

Juice  running  over 211 

Juice  soaking  through.211 

Vinegar 222 

Whipped  Cream. JllQ 

Pie,  Beefsteak 378 

Pie  Crust,  Aunty  Phelpe*..212 

Pigeons,  to  cook 168 

Pig,  baked 202 

PiNE-APPLEB. 160 

Canned 124 

To  keep 161 

Piping. 

Ornamental « .846 

Artistic 846-7 

With  diagrams.. 851 

Plums,  canned 126 

Pocket-books - 36 

Popovera 35 

Pork. 

And  Beans,  Yankee 205 

Roast 204 

Salt,  fried 204 

Spare-rib 206 

Steaks,  fried 204 

Season  lor 428 

Pot-pie. 

Chicken 277 

Spare-rib... 208 

Potatoes 409 

A  la  Duchesse .412 

A  la  Lyonaise 414 

A  la  Parisienne 338 

And  Onions 336 

Baked 836 

Boiled  In  Jackets 335 

Cakes 412 

Flour. 414 

Fricasseed 413 

Fried 413 

Fried  raw 336 

Fried  whole 336 

Frozen .322 

In  jackets 337 

Kentucky  btyle 337 

Mashed 336 

New a37 

Ringed   .a39 

Rissoles 339 

Saratoga - *?9 

Souffle 338 

Seven  ways 138 

Sweet,  baked 3.19 

fiweet,  fried 339 

Sweet,  steamed 339 

Sweet,  with  Beef 340 

Texas 339 

Poultry 271 

Garnishes  for 275 

To  lard 272 

To  skewer  uua  siutf 272 


Page 

Pbaibib  Chtckenb. 170 

Broiled 169 

Season  for^ 428 

PBESSBVm  .  ....MM. 243 

Apple .^ 245 

Carrot .246 

Cherry 246 

Citron 246 

Citron 253 

Fig  24- 

Peach  and  Pear !.. .1.247 

Pine-apple 253 

Plum 248 

Quince  and  Apple. 218 

Strawberry .249 

To  can  ana  harden 243 

To  clarity.....^ 244 

Tomato 349 

To  skim .244 

Water-melon ..^......249 

Wild  Crab-apple 244 

Prunes,  season  for. 428 


Pudding  ......^••..•^•.....^..225 

Apple  rolev  poley>.>.*>»227 
Apple-Tapfoca....... ......239 

Bud's-neat 228 

Boiled 225 

Bread 228 

Brown  Betty .........228 

Carrot.  English 231 

Chocolate 229-30 

Christmas,  Plum. 284 

Cloths  for 225 

Cocoa-nut......... 230 

Cocoa-nut............ 238 

Cottage 230 

Corn-starch .229 

Cream 230 

Dates  for. 226 

Delmonioo 231 

EstelJe 231 

Fig 281 

Fruit 231 

Half-hour 232 

Indian,  baked. 232, 409 

Indian, boiled.. ^...282,  411 

Kiss 232 

Lemon 233 

Lemon,  delicious 238 

March 233 

Minute «.233 

Molasses 234 

One-two-three-fbur 234 

Oven  for 226 

Orange 284,  238 

Pine-apple 236,  238 

Plum 236 

Plum,  Chri8tma& 234 

Plum,  eggless 285 

Plum,  English 235 

Plum.  Prairie 236 

Culpepper .237 

Poor  Han's. 236 

Prune 237 

Pufr,  quick 237 

Queen  of~ 237 

Rice 288 


PUDDIKO. 

Rice  Snow-balls. 2^ 

Sago  and  Apple 2;^ 

Strawberrv 229 

Sweet  Potato .345 

VCUIIIC6    ••.••...    ............    M>9 

Whortlberrj' 239 

Puff-paste 211 

Puffs Am 

Brcad..~ 85 

Cream,  Boston^ 81 

Cream,  Dixie 82 

Preserve  ~ 222 

Raspberry... .378 

Coventry.. 878 

Pumpkins,  season  for 428 

Quails. 

Broiled 169 

Broiled 276 

On  Toast 170 

Roasted 170 

Reason  for .428 

QumcEB 128 

Baked 164 

Season  for 428 

Rabbits.... 173,  428 

Radishes,  season  for... 428 

Raisins... 160 

To  seed 62 

Raised  Pie,  design  fbr.....365 

Cnwt  for 866 

Illustrated .367 

Reed  Birds 172,  428 

Raspberries. 

Canned .'J25 

Float 165 

Season  for 428 

Relssheb. 

Cucumber .40ft 

Horse-radish 186 

Rhubarb,  season  for 428 

Rice 841 

Apples 228 

How  to  boil 341 

In  Milk 341 

Pudding 238 

Southern 841 

Snow-balls..... 288 

Rock  Candy,  to  make......ll8 

ROLEY-POLEY. 

Apple 227 

Apple-butter.. 227 

Cherry 227 

Dried  Fruit 227 

Jelly 227 

Orange 227 

Rolls. 

Breakfast 89 

Coffee 40 

Com 45 

Dinner  or  French 40 

Egg 40 

Every-day 40 

French 40 

ItaUan.... 41 

Long  Breakfast 89 

MaryianQ  m.*...**...^ ■•••••  %l 


1 1 


zw 


680 


INDEX  TO  COOKERY  RECIPES. 


\ 


Page 

Rolls. 

Parker  Houae 41 

liVedding,  vandwich 42 

Winter 42 

Vienna 43 

Root  Flowers 348 

Rusk. 
Lebanon 86 

Salad 2S7 

Ai)paragus.~ 28S 

Beiiu - 2S9 

Ciibbago 2Si) 

Celery  for 287,  288 

Ctiic'ken 290 

Cucumber— 291 

Drossiugfur 29;i 

Dressing,  bottled 293 

Dressing,  mayonnaise. ..293 

Dressing,  potato.^ 294 

Ham 291 

Herring 291 

Lettuce 291 

Lobster 291 

Oyster 294 

Salmon 292 

Sidney  Smith's 288 

Tomato .- 293 

Sally  Lunn 39 

Salmon. 

Bilked 153 

Brciikfiust 156 

Canned. Vtd 

Season  for 428 

Sai-pify 341 

Fried 'Ml 

In  cakes 342 

SUnved  with  Codflsli 312 

With  Tortsl 342 

Sandwiehes,  mixed 4us 

fcandwiohes,  Kafii)berry...:)7»j 
Sand-taru 98 

SArrEs  FOR  Meats 12ft 

Bnad 131 

Cuper 132 

Celery 1:^2 

Chili loj 

Cranberry ir.l 

Cream 132 

Curry  I^>\viler V.\'2 

IIollaiHlaise l:^ 

Horse-radish 13G 

L^'mon 131 

Mavuunaise 1">4 

l\ivA I'M 

Onion irJi 

Oyster l:.o 

Koman 135 

biuimp 135 

Tomaio 135 

Tomato,  green i:i3 

Bavcts  fob  Puddings. 

Brandv 240 

Butterlesfi 24<) 

Cider 240 

Cocoa-nut 2I(J 

Creum 240 

Cicjim.  plain  24!» 

Fine' French 240 


PApe 

Sauces  fob  Puddings. 

E\'ery-day....~ 241 

Foaming 241 

Hani 238 

Jelly 241 

Lemon 241 

Maple-Biigar 241 

Minnehaha 241 

Orange,  hard 242 

Pine-apple 242 

Strawberry ^2 

Temperance.^ 226 

Vinegar 242 

Whipped  Cream 242 

Sausage,  toast 408 

SauRa^e  RolU 375 

Scrapple 366,  411,  413 

Scrapple,  Phlla. 408 

Scrapo,  to  save 368 

Shad. 

Baked 153 

Season  for ^...428 

Shell-fish 296 

Sherbets 144 

SlIORTCAKB. 

Orange »....m...  223 

Peach.- 228 

Raspberry^ 223 

Strawberry 223 

Shrub,  laspbeny 144 

Slaw. 

Cream. .289 

(>ream.  dressing  for. .....293 

Plain  cold 289 

Smelts,  seasoa  for. 428 

Snaps. 

Ginger. 101 

Ginger,  hotel 101 

Lemon -  98 

On  rainy  days 99 

When  moist 99 

Snipe 178,  428 

Snowflakes 165 

SOHA. 

Pure 33 

Rule  for 33 

Beer 144 

Soli' .304-307 

.•\sparagus 310 

B-an 311 

Bean,  Sjitnrdny 312 

Bean,  nieatlc.s.s ;^12 

Bean,  turtle 31J 

Beef 310-311 

Bi>eU  with  Okra 311 

Bread,  dice  for 319 

Carrot 312 

Celery,  cream 313 

Chicken 313 

nam 309-313 

Coloring  for 319 

Ettonomical 309 

Green  corn 813 

Gumbo 813 

Mock  Turtle 814 

Mutton 314 

Noodle 315 

Okra. .315 

Oyster,  with  Milk ...816 


P»g» 
Soup. 

Oyster.. — 315 

Poached  Egg&  with 3j7 

Pot  au  feu 315 

Pea.  green iilO 

Potato 316 

Sauces  for i>07 

Swiss. 316 

Thickening  for ...306 

Tomato 816 

Turtle 318 

Turkey  iMaie .317 

Vegetables. 318 

Veal 318 

SoupsTOCK :^7 

Economical 308 

How  made. 307 

How  used 308 

Rich- 307 

Souse,  pigs'  feet 203 

Spices,  use  of. 103 

Spinach S4S,  428 

Sponge. 

And  bread 17 

For  winter. 17 

How  made 9 

Squab  pie 406 

Squash. 

Summer 342 

Winter 342 

Season  for -428 

Stbawberries. 

Canned 125 

Mock 165 

Oranged- 165 

With  whipped  cream. ..165 
Season  for 428 

Stkyt. 

Breakfast ^412 

Brown.« 197 

Stews 414 

Steak  pudding 408 

Sturgeon,  season  for 428 

Sl'CCOTASH 343 

With  Pork„ 343 

In  winter 343 

Suet,  to  keep 194 

Suckers,  seo^ion  for 428 

Sugar,  for  decoraving 349 

SWEFrrBKEAD. 

Larded  208 

Fricasseed 208 

Stewed 208 

Fried 208 

Roasted 2Ki 

S>Tup,  Lemon 144 

Table. 

Cook's  time 347 

Of  weights 316 

Of  measures. 346 

Tabtb. 

Apple 223 

Almond 2::3 

Cocoa-nut. 224 

Eccles ^ 374 

Sand 98 

Open 871 

SheUs 221 


/ 


rWEX  TO   COOKERY  RECIPR^. 


681 


Page 

Tea 140 

Iced 144 

h»'mon 144 

Terrapin 299 

Toad  111  the  hole 199 

Toast 408 

Breakfast 85 

Buttered 34 

Tomato 3io 

Excellent 86 

Tongue. 

Beef - 190 

Spiced 198 

To  decorate 347 

Tomatoes. 

JjUK  vCI««»  •■••••  ••••••■••«••  •■•■•■o4o 

Canned ...... s^...^....  ......126 

Escaloped 844 

Figs 253 

Fried 344 

Sliced.- 344 

Stewed 344 

Toait 845 

Season  for 428 

Trifles 97 

Tripe. 
frieu.....  .....••»••««..••...  •••xvi' 

Fricagseed. 199 

Soused 199 


TROtJT. 

Baked... 

BFOOK  .mm.... 

Season  lor... 


•••««  *»•••• •••••• 


•••••••*•• 


.158 

M.M.155 


Pag© 

Turbot 158 

Turkey. 

Boned 281,  282 

Boiled 282 

Escaloped 412 

Fat  for  etufBng 28^^ 

Roast 283,  284 

Roast,  English 2»6 

To  plump 28" 

To  roast 27'J 

To  steam 2T.i 

With  Oyster  stuffing... ..28"» ' 
Season  for 428 

Turnips. 

Baked 845 

Diced 84n 

Steamed... 845 

Season  for 428 

Turtles,  season  for. 42S 

Veal.... 411 

Cutlets,  fried. 206 

Boast  loin  of 207 

Stew 207 

With  Oysters „...209 

Season  for.. 428 

Vbqetables. 820-8SM,  410 

Add  Sugar  to 821 

Time  to  cook 821 

Odor  while  cooking ......821 

Venison.  *. 
Hams,  8moked..............l69 

-Roast  haunch  ...............171 

Season  for.>...«.«*MM»......428 


Pag* 

Vinegar. 

Celery .270 

Cheap vn 

Clover 2b9 

Pepper 2fil) 

Spiced 270 

Waffles. 44 

Corn 412 

Quick 44 

Raised 'U 

Rice -i'> 

Tarragon 270 

Wafeni.  sweet 4a 

Watfji-melon. 

To  serve 159 

Canned 127 

Season  for 428 

Water-icing 356 

Welsh  Rarebit 413 

Woodcock 107 

Broiled ......173 

Fried 173 

Season  for 428 

Yankee  Dried-beef- 418 

Yeast 54 

Dry 55 

FHrmcrs'- 56 

Hop r)6 

Potato  without  Hops....  06 

Potato 56.  57 

New  recipe  for 57 

Without  Yeast 58 

Talkoo  Yeast 58 

Zest,  Lemon 108 


883 


INDEX-SUPPLEMENTARY. 


Page 

Accidents 682-588 

Ants,  to  kill 4S7 

Alpaca,  to  clean 625 

Apples,  to  keep 540 

Apple-corner 490 

Applesauce 507 

Arts  of  the  toilet. . .  .574-581 
Articles  for  sick  room,  572 

Asthma,  to  relieve 6ao 

Autumn  leaves 589 

Babies,  Injeciions  for,  546 
Sweet  flag  for  colic,  546 
King  for  teething. . .  .546 

Ears  of 546 

Bow  to  hold 546 

Children,  puny 546 

Cordials 546 

Soothing  syrups 546 

Teethiug .546 

Light  rooms  for 546 

Restlessness 546 

Colio  in 516-547^548 

Chafing 546 

Colds 546-7 

Croup 646-551-652 

Greasing 546 

How  to  wash 547 

Fire  for 547 

Bunny  side  for 547 

Ventilation  for 547 

SalTrqn  tea  for 647 

Castor-oil  for 647 

Scarlet  fever 647 

Contagious  diseases,  548 
Cough,  remedy  for..M8 

Worms  in 548 

Dre.s8  for  young.  548-549 

Rooms  for 548 

Suit  for  baby 549 

Diaper  for 550 

Fire,  warmth  for. — 550 

Food  for 551 

Crying 561 

Weak  or  sore  eyes 551 

Sore  mouih  in 551 

W  hooping-cough,  552-652 

Weaning 552-563 

Regu*ar  feeding 652 

Oil  rubs  for 650 

Foot-baths  for 641 

Food  for 658 

Bonnets,  to  clean 625 

To  color 625-6 

Children. 

Brain,  to  relieve 655 

Di  tof •. 552 

Care  of  the  feet 552 

First  symptoms 552 

Worms  in 553 

Diarrhea  in 658 

Care  of  the  hair  of . . .  553 

Sugar  for 553 

How  to  wake 553 

Crib  for 554 

Teething,  signs  of — 553 

Ring  for 563 

Applications  for. 553 

Checking  persplratiou,654 
Cough  cure 648 


Page 
Sand- bag  In  sickness.  564 

Bacon,  to  cure 517 

Bad  breath 575, 576 

Bad  smells ....487,665 

Bags,  piece 664 

Bath,  the 577 

Bay  Rum. 576 

Beauty. 

Dress,  to  enhance 678 

Food  necessary  for.. 674 

To  preserve 574 

Beans  for  win'er 469 

Bed-bugs,  to  kilL.  .442,  650 

Bedding 427 

Bed-room. . .' 426 

Beestings 631 

Beef,  how  to  buy 60S 

Com  fed 602 

Dried 619 

How  to  cut  up 513 

How  to  corn 517, 518 

To  carve  sirloin 511 

Spiced  corned 514 

Beef,  raw 573 

Beefsteaks 503 

Packed  for  winter.    515 
Bkef  Tea. 

Ft»r  sick 573 

Raw 668 

Berries 638 

Berry  stains 661 

BiTECk 

Mad  dogs 684 

Serpents 588 

Black  heads 574 

Blacking,  ivory 575 

Blankets,  to  waah 528 

Bleaching 620-8 

Bleeding,  to  stop 630 

Bloom  of  youth 669 

Blue,  Fading  526 

Boilers,  wash 525 

Boiled  flo<.r 573 

Books,  to  preserve 448 

Boots,  to  make  durable.662 

Boots,  squeaking. 661 

Boquets,  to  make  . .    .590 

Borax,  use  of 522,  667 

Boston  B  mettPowder575 
Brass  kettle,  to  clean.. 467 

Bread,  to  keep 466 

Breakfast  parties 448 

Breaking  dishes 464 

Breaking  through  ice.  .583 

Bright's  disease 641 

Brine. 

For  beef 517 

For  hams 517 

For  shoulders 517 

Broken  bones 582 

Brooms,  to  keep 444 

Broth , to  rcmovegrease.567 

Buckwheat  meal. 508 

Burning  feet 643 

Burning  houses 588 

BUKNS. 

By  acids 68S 

By  alkalies 582 

By  fire 686,660,629 


Pago 

Or  bruises 631 

Or  cuts 631 

Application  for 681 

Salve  for. 632 

Linseed  oil  for 641 

BUTTEB, 

How  to  make 519 

Churning 519 

Salting 620 

Working 620 

Packing  away 620 

To  keep  fresn 620 

Artificial 662 

Cabbage 540 

Cabbage  water 468 

Cake-pan,  new  kind 482 

Calico. 524 

Bufl".  to  remove  color.5k6 

Chemistry  of  food 602-7 

Canary  birds 666 

Candle,  to  blow  out 66i 

Carpets. 

How  to  select 424 

Cheap 438 

Grease-spots  on 437-8 

To  clean  well 431 

How  to  lay 430 

Moths  under 434 

Stair 430 

Sweeping 425-39 

Carpet  rags 437 

Carving 511-12 

Carriage,  care  of 669 

Catarrh. 

How  to  treat. 682 

Cure  for 633,  634,  670 

Cauliflower 608 

Celery 608-639 

Cellar,  clean 424 

Cedar  chests 434 

Cellar. 

How  to  build 636 

Windows 536 

Wall 536 

Veutilation 636 

Plan  for 637 

CleanlSness  538 

Toclean 640 

Cement. 646^7 

Diamond 664 

For  china 466-437 

For  knife  handles 467 

For  jet 674 

For  rubber  or  leather.664 

Valuable 663 

For  gla8.s 439 

Chamois  skin,  to  wash. 439 

Chapped  lips 675-625 

Charred  cask  for  meat. 466 

Charcoal 468-667 

Cheese 508 

Chickens,  to  select. . .    505 
Chilblains.cure.682-674-653 

Children,  lost 437 

Beds  for 660 

Chimney. 

Onfire 662 

Leaks  about 661 

Cholera. 641-662 


INDEX— SUPPLEMENTABY. 


683 


Page 

C^  olera  Infantum 6&3 

Cistern. 

Bow  to  make 665 

Contents  of   664 

Chapped  hands 575-643 

Chair  bOvtoms 430 

Choking 685 

Chromos,  to  clean 4S7 

Compresses 647 

Chronic  diarrhea 630 

Closets 443 

For  bed-room 427 

Clover  tea 641 

Climate 660 

Clinkers 467 

Clothes. 

Care  of 600 

Cleanincr 601 

Itering  over 603 

BenovaUng 610 

Coloring 613,  620 

Putting  away 439 

How  to  dry 522 

How  to  fold 523 

How  to  iron 523 

How  to  sprinkle 523 

How  to  starch 523 

How  to  wafih 524 

Pins 528 

Changing 660 

Coal 510473 

Coal  ashes  for  walks. .  .437 
Coat-collars 662 

Coal  Firb. 

To  kindle 471 

To  revive 661 

Cockroaches,  to  kill . .  .437 
Codfish,  to  select 507 

Coffee. 

To  buy 609 

To  keep 466 

Warmed  over 409 

CofTee  . syrup 409 

Colic 645 

Cold  in  head 652 

Coloring 620^28 

Coloring  and  Bleaching 
What  colors  to  use,  610-13 

Family  dyes 620 

To  test  dyes 620 

Purple 620 

Blue 620 

Bleach  for  wool 620 

Bleach  for  silk 620 

Scarlet  for  wool 620 

Scarlet  spirit 621 

Cochineal  scarlet. . .  .621 

Purple  dye 621 

Extract  indigo 621 

Silver  drab 621 

Snuff  brown 621 

Wine  color  dye 621 

Pink  dye 621 

Orange  dye 621 

Bkyblue 621 

Brown  for  wool 622 


Page 

Coloring  AND  Bleaching 

Brown  for  cotton  —  622 

Solitaire 622 

Fuller's  purifier 622 

Grten  for  cotton 622 

Pink  for  coiton 622 

Yellow  for  silk 622 

Red  for  silk 622 

Violet  for  silk 622 

Slate  for  silk 623 

Lilac  for  silk 623 

Green  for  silk 628 

Brown  for  silk 623 

Brown  on  silk 623 

Mulberry  on  silk 628 

Green  on  silk 623 

Orange 6.'3 

Blue  on  cotton 623 

Solferino 623 

Liquid  colors *. . .  .623 

Violet  for  straw 624 

•    Silver  gray 624 

Lime  water 624 

Aniline  green 624 

Aniline  scarlet 624 

BLsmurck  brown 624 

Aniline  green 625 

Aniline  blue 625 

Aniline  red 625 

Aniline  violet 625 

Aniline  black 625 

To  clean  feathers 625 

To  clean  bonnets. .  .625-6 

Crimson  for  silk 6J5 

Cinnamon  for  silk. .  .625 

To  clean  furs...  625 

Bleach  ng  straw...  .626 
Varnish  for  rubber.. 626 

Bleaching  linen 626 

Varnish  for  hats 627 

Nap  on  cloth 627 

Brown  for  wood 627 

Blue  for  cotton 627 

Qreen  for  cotton 627 

Chrome    yellow    for 

cotton 628 

Blue  to  dye 628 

Blue  for  silk 628 

Scarlet  for  woolen . .  .628 
Purple  for  ladles' 

cloth 628 

Artificial  flowers 627 

Collars  and  cuffs 525 

Collars,  bad-fitting. — 577 
Cologne  water 675'^69 

Colds. 629 

Tea  for 631 

Cure  for 681 

To  break  up 657-632 

In  the  head 632 

To  not  take 682 

Sitz-bathfor 644 

Coffee-pot,  to  clean 469 

Color  contrasts 668 

Comforters 427 

Complexion. 
To  imptove 574*679 


Page 

Complexion. 

Wash  for 58i 

Washing 575 

Constipation 635-622 

Consumption . .  .638-642-643 

Copper  utensils 46:5 

Coral,  to  make 437 

Com  starch 4<J6 

Com,  to  dry 470 

Com  meal 508 

Corns,  to  cure 65;5 

Corn-meal  gruel .573 

Cork,  to  fit 466 

Corpulency,  to  cure 675 

Co  gh  mixture 633-640 

Cough,  to  cure 630-641 

Cow. 

Kicking 668 

Turnips  for 669 

Best 670 

Cranberries 539 

Cranberry  sauce 507 

Croup. 

Cure  of 634 

Remedy  643 

Cutting  teeth 578 

Cut-flowers 689 

Currant  jelly 607 

Cutlery,  prevent  rust.  .466 

Custard  cups 662 

Dandmflf 576 

Diarrhea 644-653 

Diet 660 

Dining-room  445 

Dinners,  formal 446 

DiNNEK 446 

Etiquette  of 446-449 

Host  and  hostess 446 

Hospitality,  vulgar.  .447 

Invitations 447 

Order  of  courses 447 

Individual  manners,  447 
Discolor  from  bruise. .  .630 

Dishes,  to  wash 448 

Dish-water 662 

Dish  cloths 470 

DiPTHSKIA. 

Water  treatment 660 

Blisters  In 633 

Treatment 636 

Homoepathic 637 

Allopathic 639 

Doors,  to  make  tight. .  .440 

Door-mat 442 

Door  locks 661 

Drains 482-438 

Dbebs. 

To  iron 62S 

Object  of 578 

Economv  in., 508-9 

Fitness  in 599 

Pot  children 618 

For  boys 613-4 

For  elderly  ladies. . .  .617 


«84 


INDEX—SUPPLEMENTARY. 


Page 

DBE8BE8.  ^_ 

To  whiten 531 

Lawn 631 

Muslin 531 

Dressing  for  cats,  etc.,  630 

DBF.S8  Haking  at  Home. 

How  to  dress 508 

Economy  in 598-9 

Taste  vs.  nioney 508 

Rags  and  neatness. .  .50vH 

Art  in  dress 599 

Fitness  in  dress C99 

Poverty 599 

Self-resneet TOO 

Pretty  dn'sses 509 

Quiet  styles 699-(X»0 

^      Care  of  clothes 6(K) 

Care  of  shawls C(>1 

Cleaning  clothing  ..  .COl 
Bonnets  and  hats — COl 

Care  of  ph()es 60i 

Care  of  kidglovee. . .  602 

How  to  buy 6(>2 

Making  overdresses  U)t 

Bhowy  fashionH ti03 

Care    of    abandoned 

things 603 

Altering  black  silks,  n(« 

Polonaise Trc:? 

Blark  as  adrcj?s 603 

Casb meres  and  bro- 
cades  604 

How  to  shop 604 

Quantity  of  material,  6(4 
jkiow  to  save  material  6(^6 

Shopping?  by  mail 605 

Outdoor  costumes  ..  .605 

Bargains 606 

Standard  goods 606 

Working  dresses 606 

Common  dresses 606 

How  to  cut 607-8 

Paper  patterns 607-8 

How  to  use  patterns607-8 

How  to  fit 60S-9 

How  to  make...  609-610 

Machine  stitching 610 

Renovating 610 

Grease  spots 611 

Crape  612 

Dyeing 612 

Children's  clothing.  .61 3 

Styles  of 614 

Making  over 615 

Boy's  wear 6i0 

Elderly  ladies 617 

Drinking  at  meals 557 

Drunkenness  633 

Drowning  586 

Ducks,  to  select 505 

Dusting 425 

Dyspepsia 560 

Ear 677 

Foreign  body  in 583 

Earth  worms,  to  kill. .  .589 

Earthen  ware 475 

Economy 465 


Pag« 

Eels,  to  select 507 

Egg  plant 508 

Eoos. 

Age  of 609 

To  beat  quickly 466 

To  beat 661 

Embroideries  to  Iron,  523 

Emergencies 6K2-588 

Enameled  ware 474 

Easive  fluid 526 

Ermine,  to  clean  661 

Erysipelas,  cure  for — 631 

Ext  "ACTS, 

How  to  make 473 

Alcohol  for 474 

Fruit  Juices 474 

Lemon 473 

'  Orange 474 

Oil  for 474 

Rose 474 

Vanilla 473 

Eyes. 

Blackened 631 

To  preserve 578 

Foreign  body  in 584 

Dirtfn 6;i0 

Wash  for 632 

Lime  in 642 

Face,  to  wash  properly.f)76 

Fainting 583 

Fats. 

Dieestlonof 593 

How  to  prepare 593 

When  indigestible. .  .603 

Ofliee  of 594 

Felon  salve 038 

Felnn  cure  for..6S4-643-6r) 
Female  weakness.  .644-648 
Fkkt. 

Car    of 580 

Blistered 654 

Frosted 654 

Fever  and  ague 654 

Fever. 

•BilliouB 656 

Congestive 655 

Hay 656 

Typhoid 656 

TypViis 657 

Yellow 657 

Filter  cheap 439 

Fire  kindler 467 

ire,  to  start 439 

Finish  for  room 440 

FI n  ge r  r i  n g,  to  remove . 661 

Fits,  epileptic 583 

Fish. 

How  to  select 606 

Best  kinds  of. 506 

How  served 512 

To  carve 512 


Flanwkls. 

How  washed 

In  warm  water 6g 

In  cold  water ^ 

In  boillnR  water 6M 

Fleas,  to  drive  ofr 437 

Flies,  to  keep  off-  *  .661-668 

Fiornl 5«>-l 

Floue 

To  select 509 

Patent  process 474 

Pood. 

Effeet  on  beauty 6/6 

Chemistry  of 592 

What  satis^es 692 

Chemical  element8..5» 

How  consiinaed 692 

Digestion  of ^ 

Time  to  digest. 6OT 

W^hen  ab8orl>ed 663 

Offices  of 5^ 

Muscular  food 693 

Heat  producing 593 

Chemical  proport'ns.  593 
Tables  of  nutrition... 594 

For  cold  weather f  16 

I'or  dvspepties 595 

Pe(  tine  for 595 

Mineral  elements...  5i»6 
Suulphurand  iron.. 596 

How  races  grow 596 

Milk  for 597 

Bu  termilk  for 597 

Eggs  for 697 

Wild  meats  for 597 

Domestic  meats 597 

Juice  of  flesh 595 

Fruit  (or  597 

In  summer 597 

Foot  bath 645 

Fomentations 645 

Fkames.  ^ 

Flies  off  gilt 437 

Rustic 438 

To  retouch  gilt 440 

T  reekles  to  remove. 578-669 

Fresh  paint 437 

Frozen  limbs 584 

Fuel,  to  buy 473 

^  umace 424 

Furniture. 
Buckeye  polish  for.  .663 

Dust  spots  on 425 

Eastlake 422 

Filling  for 662 

How  to  buy 423 

Modem 422 

Polish 438 

Shellac  varnish  for.  .663 

To  clean 438,449,669 

Whitu  spots  etc.  .662, 664 

Furs :. «4 

Furs,  to  clean 626 


ISDES—SUFPLEMENTARY. 


To  clean Bas-« 

To  select M6 

Topre>er*e iW 

When  Btrong SVA 

Tokeepalougtime  60^6 

Gee,«e,lo  select. "'-'--'605 

GiitlnimeB «7 

GiBLS 49M00 

Hoars  ot  work  ol..    500 

How  to  roaiisge. oOU 

Roomof ....S«0 

tila-HB   Hopper,    lo    le- 

Oliie,  lo  Blrengihen       '*VJ 

Glvi-erine an 

Uoltli'n  Ointment....  6M 
Grained  wood,  toclean.435 
Grapes,  to  keep .-  MO 

Groceries,  to  buy!!!!!. SOS 
Gucn  chunber rri 

Careol 580 

Dyes  Ior.V.V.'.'.*.'.V.V."t'») 

Fiilllpg  out &79 

Gr»T 5S0 

Oil  lor K4 

SaperBuoui bit 

Wash  lor ..b'A 

Tonic  ior M* 

Hftlibnl,l>eai!iii-.  --..W 

H*» 614 

To  carve M2 

To  keep.'.".'. '.M5,618 

TobcIbcu' -iM 

Cbapped .e76,&;s 

Tokeepaolt 6T6 

BtBlDBon hn 

Hanging.. .'!!'-'i-''i--  5B3 

HardBOSp  SCe 

Hard  water. <37 

Bat  baiide,  to  clean. . .  .cei 

Hat,  wet.  Bill 663 

Headacbe.  to  cure.  .e3l>«5« 

Heariha,  to  eleau 4;« 

Heart,  palpitation  of .  ..658 

BeioorrhageB St.7 

He □  a,  la  winter C72 

Herbs. ....Mo 

Blck'rynuts,tofreBb'n.6T0 

Hlng'B,  creating. «7 

Hints  lo  hired  (flrlB...  801 
B  inti  abou  tmBrketlDg.502 
SlnutotbeweU ue 


Furoiiurtifor;;.".:;:  * 

Bui'llght  In * 

HOCSEREEPINO. 

As   en   accomplish- 


^The_eBKlt5t  waj 

[>I..,4J9 

Ice-water,  lo  keep 

1.NK. 

Indelitile 

Spots  on  booki. 

....439 

....441 

...Ofil 

n»c«  destroyer.. 

489-167 

ich^Simenl"... 

...4.14 
461-478 

:;■.  6,Ns 

auudlce 

839*09 

KEEOBENt 

AndcarpeU 

...  67S 
....438 

Kid  Clovis. 

Black, loi'lean 601 

Light,  to  clean B74 

Kid  BhocB,  lo  re>lote...B74 

ErrcHiK 

41»47B 

Umpalot 

Kitchen  Afboh.. 

.,..469 

Wooden  mats  lor... .480 

085 

KrrcnEH  Luxobiu. 

Wnffie  Irons,  illDB 477 

Corrugated  •-pouii,  ill.. .478 
Oyster  broiler,  llluB.... 478 
Broiler  and  toaster.... 478 

Tsbk- mat,  UluB ..-478 

Gas-healcr.  illua 478 

rake-board,  llluB 478 

I-'lawerlormB,  illua. ...479 
gieam1ng-keitle,illtia..479 

OiBh-wnrmer.  lllus! .'.'  469 
.RevolTlng  grBter,  lllus. J79 
A  good  lantern,  lllus. ..4HU 

Cupboarda 180 

DMch  OTen.tlluB 480 

LemoO'Squceier,  tllui..480 

I^rdhol  er.llluB 4(fl 

Botom  iKwrd,  illua 480 

Bain  Marie,  illui^ 481 

Egg  poacher,  lllus 481 

t^oapabaker,  Illua 481 

]lamboller,lllUB 481 

Ki>lfeaiidHpooalrsy,ill481 

Finh  kettle,  Hlus 481 

Cake  Biioon,  Illua 4SI 

Chopping  knll.,llluB..4(E 
Iron  sink  ..  '  ..   .482 

Fluted  eiike  pan,  lllus.. 482 
C.Ike  eabliiet.  lllus....  482 

KHck  for  covers 482 

Handled  EtrHloer.lltua, 488 
Tea  or  coffes  strainer 

iliuB 488 

Dixb  covera 483 

Wire  egg  stand,  iUus.  .483 
KlbberF polisher    .   ...  va 

Uiah  drainer,  lllus iii 

pickle  fork,  lllus 484 

Dish  drain,  lllus 484 

Breadcooler,lllus...    481 

Koast  dip  per,  illua 484 

Toast  rack,  lllus.  ....  484 
Eitenaioo  strainer,  111  484 
Candy  tongs.  Ill  s...  48& 

Pie  marker,  hlus. .!  ""4Si 
Meat  chopper,  tllua...,4M» 
Dover  btoiler.Ulua  ...486 
Tea-pot  standi  lllus,.  .*.v« 

Plale-lilter,  illuB .488 

Clothes-lino  proctor..  .48« 
Pecrle  SB  1  co-crcaro  Ireei- 

er.lllus 488 

Pockclcook-atove 486 

Tile  lea-pou  and  illUB. .486 

Cn-amerlcB 4t» 

Grater,  lane,  Illua 487 


INDBX-SUFPLBUENTARY. 


KltCHSK  LUIUUEB. 

Teftcan.iUaa 

Coffee  caD,  lUui  — 


Ruston --. 

To  clean «7 


Amtrr«n%™ler  1 
W(H<d  table  niata.'ll 
VfKiliible  wugs.  ill 
6ftil  dishes  .  .. 
Hough  mixer,  tlluf 
>T)orttQ<i<lrttiner,i 
FurlugknHa     . 


lllus 


I  Hub 


:t  table. 


tnd,  i11u« 

Home  made  luungi 
Smoolhlni!  Iron,  ill..  4U2 
Lamp  Bbadve.. 
gponge  bosket. 

Tileeaaela.lUui 
Hanger,  lor  pi, 


Hawb  w[es,lllu>i 
FollibluglroTi.illui  .4 
Window  book.  lUui  A 
Sareand  register, 111.. 4 
Blower  rack.  I1IUB....1 


Folding  table.  lllu*..w 

Knife  box,  lllus 49i 

Spoon  box.  lllus.  — 19 

Asb  box.  lllus    .49 

Crumb  bnuh  and  pan. 


Child-pen,  lllus    ...-49; 
SubsIiEute  IoraasterB.4»: 


Cboppins 
For  peelTi 


Mclicine,  to  drop W» 


TokeepatterkllllDS..liOl 

Toeelect GM 

Lamps 469 

WtokB  or  466, 4M 

Cbtmneyi... .461, 467,438 

To  keep  from  mold' 


The  best 

Lariling  needle... 

Leaky  roots  \'.'.'.'. 


.  493 


Life  preserver. . 
Lightning  cream 
Ligbtoiugrod... 


Safe  ash  barrel  lllUi.495 


Lips,  cbapped 

Lobsters,  Ijo  select — 
Lock  Jaw,  caiue  oL  . 

Macaroni  

Mackerel,  to  select. . 
HaahlneoU. 


Careol « 

To  clean.. 

To  take  out  oil 

Marketing 

'ilatches,  care  of. 

ilals,  cheap. 

Meamres,  labia  oi. . . 


Mirrors *M 

Moles,  to  remove.  ...   bTi 
Mosquitoes,  to  keep  oO'.575 

Motl<ers'  marks .i:4 

Molhpalehes ....SJ3 

Molbs 4SS-434 

Moving        44J 

Mullein,  for  cough  .     .640 


S.T:::: 

to  drive  ... 


c  olntmeDl    642 


Oil  C1.0THB. 

To  clean  flO 

To  make  dorable..  .430 
_>11  m'ks  on  wall  paper  .671 

Oil  rubs 649 

~     «rblocks.  «»1 

Onions,  smell  at..  .408, 001 

Onions,  to  keep.  U> 

Oranges,  to  keep 406 

Orangeade. SIX 

Oysters BOO 

Pails,  to  preiene 431 

Cbeap,  tor  Iron. OM 

Old,  to  dry (B6 

Suantltjto  yaid. ..   .661 
Dtakeout .082.636 

Whentoappty 661 

For  tools 661 

Paint  bniibes.  to  keep.  671 
Painting,  how  done. .- .4S 


INDEX— SVFPLEMENTABY. 


FAimiMSS. 

To  cleui MO 

Pancake  lUlet. 4SS 

P«nlc< _ va 

PUn    for. *60 

Cover  iac  shelves, . .  .460 

Paper  on  liu 439 

PaperliiB.... 435 

Faptred  wall,U>OleBii..44l 

Parlor, 'uio' '.!','!!!;!  424 

Porele]',  (o   keep 539 

Parsiilps.  Id  kc«p BSD 

Breaklam 448 

Dinner MB 

Evening 449 

Pastb. 

PerpeliuiL  441 

For  KOrap-booka 631 

Peel.oianee  &  lemon  \.ni 
Peoria,  lokeep brll- 

Ikat 574,662 

Pease,  for  winter I>iO 

Pease,  to  select .-iug 

Peroalea,  lowaih S27 

PheasanCB,  to  buy SOe 

PackB..... 647 

Piles. '.','.'^'^'*!'.'.".'fl36,'&M 

Piano.' care  of. 6M 

Piece-bag*    664 

Piciurei,  bow  to  hang.  .438 

Plekles 607 

Pillowa,  how  lo  sir.... 4^7 
Pimples,  to  remove..  674 

Plated  ware .4W 

Plaster  of  paHa 438 

Plants,  lo  ke.p 689 

PneomonU.  oU  silk  for  G30 

Preserve  ]»r» 468 

Programme  for  week...43» 
Poisons,  antidotes  lDr,..SSa 

Poison  ivy 631, 64S,  668 

Polish,  stove  an 

Polishing  Iron 494 

Polishing  powder.....  468 
PoicelaiOita  dean. ...664 

To  buy aw 

To  cut  up «M,B16 

To  salt 615 

To  select 504 

Postage  stamp* 661 

POTiTOM. 

To  wash.. 460 

Boiled,    baked  and 

roasted .501,800 

To  keep 6« 

At  best..... 468 


To  keep  a  long  tlme.JKi6 


Putiy,  lo  remove 
Qulclc  vinegar... 


Roots,  leaking 661 

Kuse  slugs,  to  kill. ...689 
Kiius,  ragitomake — r.ti 
Riiiiawavs  .   ,.  582 

467, 468, 626.  661 
Russia  Iron,  To  keep,...Gi}l 


To  make  81* 

Bologna .665 

Sauerkraut 471 

Scalds .585 

Boarlel  lever 

Boaling-wai 

BL'a  siclcaess 

Beeds.  to  keep. 


EIck,  food  for  the...! 

Sick    headache 

Bummer  complaint. 

SlCX-BOOK. 562 

Bed  and  bedding...  .663 
rooUugwash  tor — b67 
Conveniences  for.. ..562 

Hlntt  for ...662 

Pure  air  in 562 

Watching  the  sick ...  .662 

Molse   in 563 

Neatness  in 6S3 

Changing  clothing..  .663 

Blankets  for 5A3 

Bathing  (or 564 


Flowers  In 564 

Convalesoenca.. 534 

Drinks   lor 666 

Preparation  of  food,  MS 

Craving  for  tea 666 

DiNlnfpelantB _.668 

Btctliig-room,  the IM 

BlLltB _ 672 

DrcBs.towash S27 

Emliroidcries.,  .   ...,524 
To  cleanse .  .6J5, 628^  SlI 

ijilk.  lodoup 528 

Silk  gloics 627 

Silk  hat,  lodry 6«l 

Polish  for 468 

To  clean....  407,440,669 

To  keep 436 

Sink. 460 

Sllz-bath  ...  -.644 

Sheets,  to  renew 487 

Enamel  for  ... . '8a6,'629 

How  lo  iron 632 

Shocks 68W84 

Shingles 661 

Slioee.  oil  lor 575 

Shoe-pockets  lor  doan,44i 

To  protect S68 

Dlacoloratlons 630 

Snipe,  to  select.'.'.'.'.'...  .606 

Soap 534 

Sun... B84 

Boiled 685 

Oall  628 

Hard 531 

Hard  limes 626 

Yankee  shavlnB 669 

Sore  throat Sa-Vltna 

&  6\47D 

S  ..487 

S  ...437 


Fnilt,hand8  or  linen,  628 

Nllralflof  sUver 675 

On  spoons 466 

On  mahogany 441 

On  floors 669 

On  ciolhing 626 

On  flesh 628 

Stammering 612 

TTour.'.'.'.'.'.'.!::!:!!!!.M8 
How  to  bar 68B 

nn« tut 


6S8 


INDEX—SUPPLEMESTARY. 


Pa?e 

Steaming  kettle 479 

.Sfeel.  to  c"l«'un r/.l 

Steel  ctitlery 4»>l 

Stilil  ll.llits      .V,7 

Stiff  Joints c;50 

Stings (^il 

Of  in  sects .'wi 

Sto  -kiii^s.  children's.  .525 
Stoiu.uh,    ii.flamation 

oi    6.>J 

Son.'wnre  47-) 

Siure-room   the b,)S 

Stoves. 

TIh'  host 424 

Pock.'t 4fM) 

Polishi     072 

Pi[>e,  remove  rust. ..6458 

Ptiirireon :*)~ 

Sunburn,  to  romove. .  .575 

SiHJstroke .%6 

Suf*bcai.oii ii).3 

SUGAB. 

Kinds  of 609 

To  buy .*»09 

SUPJH.TS 6-13 

Sweeping 425 

Sweetbreads, 603 

Tablb. 

Chairs  for 449 

Covers  for 445 

Decoration 447 

Linen  to  mark 470 

Manners  at 448 

Ware 449 

Table  cloth,  to  clean.. 469 

Taper  lights 641 

Taste  of  fish 466 

Tea. 

To  buy 609 

To  keep 466 

Ground 467 

Tea-pot,  to  clean 469 

Teetn 677,579 

Tetter,  to  cure 674 

Timber 662 

Tin,  to  prevent  nut 468 

Tin  pan8,new '. 461 

TlNWABB. 

Kitchen 47e 

To   mend 488 

To  brighten 466 


'  Pago 

Tomatoes 507 

ToN(;rKS. 

To  on  re 515 

To   «*irve 7)11 

To    tMi.M  t y\\ 

TocithH'ii'-,  to  relieve..<"»^Jl 

Trichiiiuij iVi2 

Tr:}»e,  to  cUan 517 

T'lii.M   Tji.  to  wji.^sh   ..  4»'.0 
Tiirk'y<!,  toselect..    ..  .'i(i5 

Turnips,  to  k-»'ep  '►;;*» 

rrinarv   roubles  t»45 

Vai»or  hjith f."»2 

Veins,   varicose 653 

Varnish,  to  dry  old. . .  .662 

Veal, 

How  to  select 503 

How  carved all 

How  cut  up 614 

Vegetables. 

Fresh 507 

Kuten  with    what W7 

To  briy  507 

To  pack 540 

To  ke»p MO 

Vol  vet,  to  clean 525 

Venison. 

How  car  *  ed 512 

To  select 5a5 

To  keep 505 

Ventilation 424 

Vienna  lime 468 

ViNEGAB. 

Good 608 

Ciuick 468 

Rhubarb 469 

Vomiting,  to  check. . .  .629 
Walks,  to  keep  clean. .  .661 

Wall  Papeb. 

Puton 436 

Toclean 441 

Walnuts,  to  freshen 467 

Warts,  to  remove 676 

Washing  dishes 469 

Washing. 

Fluids 628^88 

Turpentine. 629 

Washing  in  summer... 6&4 

Washing  day 621 

Washing  soda* 626 


Washixq. 

To  jivfij  ]  ni^ibing  . .  ^26 
K."liim  L'Oi  •«!>..    ..       .  .',.S 

WiK.Itii  fabrics,   o_1» 

Si  k  hiimlkerchiefi    f-'J) 
I-i-lit  colored  priuta..5X» 

Flaiiiivis   5.« 

I^'-e  530 

Wa I er  treatment..  ..    6ii 

W.VTF.R. 

To  filter    475 

To  poften 43iM<>7 

Poi'vOTied 467-172 

Wenk  eyes 6^3 

\Ve»-*ls  in  walks '  *     V'i 

W.'itrhi  of  grain t»M 

We  lights  and  mea8ures.41S 

WcU,  lo  light  (-V2 

WVll.s,  to  clean t3*>2 

WeiiS 612 

Whitewash ASSHA^ 

For  cellars 539 

Toclean 4J3 

White  zephyr,toclean..52i 
Wh  ite  of  esrgs,  to  beat..  .406 

Wild  ducks 505 

Wild  peese 646 

Window.s 437 

Wine,  unfennented  — 664 

Wood. 

To  hard  en 661 

Ebonize 668 

Comparative  Talue...421 
Best 610 

WOOD-WOBK 829^ 

Clean  before  painting,438 
Wood  ware 475 

Woaais. 

Cure  for 632 

In  horses 668 

Tape 6552 

In  children 632 

Wounds 682-584 

From  rusty  nails. . .  630 
8alve  for 688 

Woolen  Goods 529 

To  Iron 538 

To  color  black 665 

To  wash 683 

Work  baskets 448 

Work  of  week 488 


■ 

J 


INDEX  TO  'TOPZ^LAn  DIXfE  DISHES:' 
Begins  After  Page  378. 

fotEAKFAST  AST»  TkA  CaKEB.  PAGE.  )  FlfSTT 

Bukiii;;  I'ovsdv^T  Linciui 1 

Bcateu  lJi-c:iit 1 

Bcftteu  IJihCuiL,  Yirgiuia l 

Bit»ciur,  Till  11 a 

ButttT  Crack- r-* 2 

Crenm  Crinprt 2 


CakfH,  ("oni  Meal 6 

Cunaut  Duns '2 

MiilliuH,  Rico 2 

Cro-js  BimiiB,  Hot 2 

PiitlH,  Nut 2 

KolJH,  French 8 

RollH,  Twist 3 

RiuRri 8 

Rico  Croqinntee 3 

Ruskp,  Buttor 3 

RiipkB,  Fronch  Sweet 3 

Waffles,  CommoQ 5 

Cakks. 

Cocoanut,  Giorgia 5 

Corn  Starch  Tuffs 6 

Drop  Cakes 5 

Koftee  Kuchen 5 

Loaf,  Picnic  5 

One-Egj:  Cake b 

Marble  Cake        6 

Kow  Year's  Fruit  Cuke 6 

White  Fruit  Cake           C 

Old  Virginia  New  Year's 6 

Pine  Apple  Cake 6 

MolaesGB  Pound  Cake 6 

New  Orleans  S pen <:e  Cake 6 

Milkless  White  Cake 7 

MerinirueB  with  Whipped  Cream 7 

SiarKiHsep 7 

Lemon  Cheese  Cake 7-  8 

Ckbamb. 

Caledonia 8 

Frozen  Whipped  Cream 8 

OransreCream 8 

Strawberry  Cream  8 

Vanilla « 

Dbinks. 

Apple  Wine 9 

Blackberry  Wine 9 

Oatawba  Wine 10 

Ginger  Ale 10 

Ginger  Beer 10 

Gooseberry  Wine 10 

Lemonade ID 

MaltCordial 10 

Peach  Cordial 10 

Roman  Punch 10 

Sherry  Cobbler 10 

Strawberry  Wine 10 

To  Preserre  Cider  Sweet 10 

Tomato  Wine 10 

Virfflnla  Apple  Toddy 11 

Wild  Grape  Wine 11 

Bntrbes. 

Bismarck  Btew 11 

Broiled  Kidneys U 

To  Fry  Brains 11 

Chicken  Pillau 13 

DaabeFroide 12 

Silver  Pudding 12 

HeatPnff^ 12 

Stewed  HuRhrooms 12 

Potted  Rabbits 12 

Presh  Beef  Tongue 12 

TongaeToast 18 

Bagoat  Sweet  Bread..*. 18 


I>wilcd  V\ 


PAG1. 

1;  w I ih  Vegetables 18 

Ij.-uwu  Jri-h  ISoiip 13 

Crab  St'.'W 14 

Crni.H,  to  Piitkle 14 

Iliulilock,  Boiled 14 

><!il;bnt,  Crc'olod 14 

llLrrin>3:i!i,  Buked 14 

BerriiiujH  ft.r  Family  Use 14 

Li)lifctcr,  to  Boil 14 

Oyster  Salad 16 

O'vt-tors  oi:d  Macearoni -      15 

PlilauofFiBh 16 

S«ullopt( 15 

Shriini)  Pio 16 

Shoep's  Head,  Baked 15 

Smelts 15 

StuTcrron,  Virginia  Baked 16 

Turrlo- 16 

Wh.ie  Fish,  Baked 16 

Game. 

Opossum 16 

Pi^e(>ll^  iii  Jelly 16 

Fr'"d  i;aU)it 17 

Rabbits  w.th  Onions 17 

Ri>^no]es  of  Partridge 17 

Veil ipon  Steaks    17 

Voiii»on,  Keiitucky  Roast 17 

IcKf  AND  TcE  Cream. 

Bisque  liluce  18 

But ti-rnnlk  Ice  Cream 18 

Varamel  ice  Cream 18 

Cocoanut  Ice  Cream 18 

Frozen  Cn^tflrd 18 

Gelatine  Ice  Cream 18 

Ilickory-nut  Ice  Cream.., 18 

Neopolitan  Ice  Cream 18 

Concord  Cfrapo  Ice 19 

Lemon  Sherbet 19 

pineapple  Sherbet .....  19 

Watermelon  Ice 19 

Pastry  and  Coitfectiombrt. 

Cream  Pie 19 

GoosberryPie 20 

Virginia  Potato  Paste SW 

Silver  Pie 20 

Virginia  Sweet  Potato  Pie 20 

French  Candy 20 

Peanut  Taffy 21 

Popcorn 21 

Preserves  and  Piokles. 

Brandied  Peaches 21 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 91 

Green  Tomato  Preserres 21 

Walnut  Catsup 21 

PUDDIXGB. 

Almond  Pudding 22 

Apple  Charlotte 22 

Beliclou 8  Apple  Padding 22 

Cabinet  Pudding 22 

Christiana  Pudding... 22 

Copenhagen  Pudding 22 

Com  Meal  Puddmg 23 

DixiePudding 28 

Fruit  Pudding 23 

Plum  Pudding 23 

Soups  akd  Veoxtablbb. 

Gumbo  Fillet 24 

Oom,toCan 24 

Sweet  Potatoes..... S4 


A  BOOK  THAT  WINS. 


Vh  bM»  iHMd  k  DOW  book  on -Bodetr.  BDd  the  Bnln  thM  Oomtn  K.*  thtf  k  M 
popolki  and  pnoUol,  la  Ua  war,  H  '   Mil*  Oookacr.'   UIb 

"MAMEES  THAT  ¥11," 


ba  Dlda  "  la  to  all  otbec  ooolf  books.  No  pain^  havn  tieen  spared  In  oompUa* 
.1;  all  tbe  latent  and  l>aiCBtuidBFda.acliorlt1esliavetiecncon«ulU)a.  Aa  vellu  maay 
people  In  hlgb  KodalaCandliislaChslarBaiiltleB,  who  are  fAmUlu  wlUi  tba  beat  ohom 
Ot  Booletr,  and  ii  u 

THOROUGHLY  TRUSTWORTHY. 


•^SOLID  gOIION  SEMSE^ 

Tf  nWng  mmi  inl  Tttmrm  hfr^  ftr  irt.  aa  vellaalkow  to  amc  to  ba 

GENTLEMEN  AND  LADIES. 


Is  eapeciallr  attrocIlTei 

■WITH  BEAUTIFUL  GILT  SIDE  TITLE, 

■•■VT,  UaMd  papoii  and  olear  print.    To  abow  It  la  to  at^M  a  (Ualia  to  poaMB. 


Clmli,  out  Side,  Plain  Edges.  •  •         $2.00 

Clotli.  Pull  Qi:t,  •  -  2.50 

HcTOCco,  FuU  GUt,  -  -  .  3.00 

i«  br  Volt  oa  Bewlpt  (rf  Prloa. 

Mta  wantod  in  tnrj  Count?  In  the  United  Btatea. 


L.  A.  CLARKSON  &  CO., 

ATLANTA.  GA 


f) 


ill  Mis  1 


We  liaye  juit  iflsaed  a  new  and  beautiftil  Jarenile  Book 
under  the  title  of 

"The  Children's  Hour." 

It  is  handsomely  illustrated  with  over  100  choioe  wood  en- 
gravings, all  of  which  have  a  special  interest  for  children  and 
yoong  people.  These  stories  and  poems  have  been  carefhlly 
eeleoted,  to  amuse  and  instract,  while  at  the  same  time  the 
tone  is  pure  and  elevated.  The  book  is  fascinating  to  chil- 
dreUy  and  i>eople  who  have  arrived  at  years  of  discretion, 
cry  and  laugh  over  the  charming  stories  that  make  up  the 
oontents.  No  child  can  read  the  book  and  not  be  the  bet. 
ter  for  it,  and  no  parent  need  hesitate  to  place  it  in  the  hands 
jf  his  children,  lest  the  lessons  conveyed  might  be  harmfiiL 

The  binding  is  handsome  scarlet  and  gold  doth,  with  a 
beautiful  gold  side  title. 


SOLD  ONLY  BY  SUBSCRIPTION, 


Pricey  Plain  Edgas* 
«         Gilt  " 


$2.00. 
S.26 


When  no  agent  is  in  the  vicinity,  orders  may  be  sent  by 
mail,  direct  to  the  publishers,  and  the  book  will  be  forwarded 
postpaid. 

L.  A.  CLARKSON  &  CO., 

ATLANTA,  GA^ 


Wliat  Well  Known  Iiadies  of  the  Sonth  Think 

of  ''Dixie  Cook  Book/' 


State  of  Alabama,  > 

Executive  Office,  Montgomery.  )  ,  September  1, 1888. 

I  have  carefully  perused  the  *'Dbde  Gook  Book**  and  And  it  to  ba 
more  entertaining,  useful  and  instructiye  than  any  work  of  the  kind  I 
have  ever  read.  I  have  examined  many  books  of  this  kind,  and  have  no 
hesitation  in  saying  this  is  the  best  I  have  ever  seen,  and  I  am  sure  that 
every  woman  who  has  used  it  will  concur  with  me  in  this  opinion. 

Very  Respectfully,        Omvia  M.  O'Neal. 

(Wife  of  Gov.  O'Neal,  of  Alabama.) 


I  would  certainly  advise  all  young  housekeepers  to  give  the  ''Dixie 
Cook  Book"  a  trial,  and  older  ones  will  find  many  valuable  lessons  in  it. 

Very  Respectfully,       Mrs.  Joseph  E.  Bbown. 
Atlanta,  Ga.,  April  11, 1888. 


Nashville,  May  29, 1888. 
X.  A  CloTkMThy  AtlarUa^  Oa.: 

Your  valuable  and  interesting  "Dixie  Cook  Book"  has  afforded  me 
much  pleasure  and  profit  I  would  commend  it  to  every  new  housekeeper 
as  a  49uitable  text  book  and  may  it  cause  many  happy  hours,  (as  it  will  if 
its  precepts  are  followed,)  is  the  wish  of 

Mbb.  W.  B.  Bates. 
(Wife  of  Gov.  Bates,  of  Tennesee.) 


The  '^Dixie  Cook  Book*'  is  a  new  compilation  on  domestic  economy 
which  is  enough  to  make  the  heart  of  every  good  housekeeper  glad ;  and 
the  housekeeper  who  is  not  good,  thankful.  It  is  far  more  than  its  name 
indicates  and  should  rather  have  been  called  "A  Cyclopedia  of  Domestic 
Economy,**  for  it  does  a  great  deal  more  than  confine  itself  to  the  mere 
matter  of  food  and  its  preparation.  It  has  reference  to  the  proper  man- 
agement of  the  entire  household,  the  drawing  room,  library  and  bedroom 
as  well  as  dining  room,  kitchen  and  cellar.  It  has  regulations  for  the  san^ 
itary  welfare  of  the  family,  and  wise  counsel  for  the  treatment  of  disease 


— 3  — 

and  accident    In  short,  as  we  said,  it  treats  of  the  circuit  of  domestic  lir- 

ing,  and  therefore  is  entitled  to  the  larger  and  more   dignified  name 

which  we  have  suggested  for  it    Any  housekeeper  who  'will  stady  this 

book  thoroughly,  practice  its  recipes,  and  be  governed  by  its  hundreds  of 

reliable  maxims,  wil  '•  be  better  fortified  to  meet  all  the  demands  exacted 

by  a  well  ordered  jnenage  than  if  the  concentrated  wisdom  of  a  ^eneratlaa 

of  grandmothers,  mothers  and  aunts  of  housekeeping  celebrity,  irere  st 

her  side  to  direct  her. 

Maboabet  J.  Pbestox. 
Lexington,  Virginia,  August  1, 1883. 


Some  four  months  ago  I  received  the  "Dixie  CSook  Book"  *  * 

I  examined  the  work  very  carefully  and  was  delighted  with  it.  I  then 
turned  it  over  to  Miss  Linton,  who  has  charge  of  our  cooking  department 
She  was  charmed  with  the  b<x)k  and  has  used  it  constantly.  *  *  Every 
pupil  in  that  department  expresses  a  desire  to  have  the  book  for  herself. 

Yours  Respectfully,        M.  Rutherford. 
Sept  26, 1883.  Principal  of  '*Lucy  Cobb  Institute,  Athens,  Oa. 


This  is  to  certify  that  I  have  used  the  'Dixie  Cook  Book"  in  the  cook* 
ing  department  of  the  *'Lucy  Cobb"  Institute,and  it  has  been  entirely  satia- 
factory.  *  *  You  will  see  by  date  of  foregoing  testimonial  that 
It  was  T^Titten  some  time  ago,  and  I  t bought  had  been  sent  I  regret  the 
delay  as  it  gives  me  much  pleasure  to  bear  testimony  to  so  excellent  a 
publication. 

Respectfully,       AmaB  E.  Linton. 
Superintendent  of  Cooking  Department  in  "Lucy  Cobb"  Institute. 
Athens,  Ga.,  October  80, 1883. 


It  affords  me  sincere  pleasure  to  commend  most  earnestly  and  cordially 
the  contents  of  a  volume  which  I  hope  will  find  a  niche  in  every  Ameri* 
can  library.  Judicious  eclecticism  has  arranged  in  this  book  all  that 
housekeepers  could  desire  or  require,  and  it  constitutes  a  valuable  Domestic 
Thesaurtu,  which  all  women,  especially  wives  and  mothers,  should  possess. 
With  best  wishes  for  Its  circulation  and  success,  I  am 

Respectfully,       Augusta  E.  Wiuon. 

Mobile,  Alabama,  May  17,  1883. 


After  using  the  "Dixie  Cook  Book"  for  several  months,  I  most  cor> 

dially  and  heartily  recommend  it  to  all  housekeepers.    It  Is  full  of  all 

kinds  of  Information,  not  only  in  the  culinary  department,  but  in  house- 

eeplng^     and  even  in  fine  suggestions  for  decorating  and  furnishing.    I 

find  it  to  be  the  housekeeper's  encyclopedia,  giving  varied  and  valuable 


—  8  — 

Inf onnation  on  all  subjects  from  the  culinaiy  department  to  the  parlor,  nol 
omitting  the  "apothecary's  shop"  which  is  alone  worth  the  price  of  the  book. 

Mbs.  S.  p.  Callaway. 
LaGrange,  Ga.,  January  16, 1884. 


Thb  DmB  Cook  Book. 

Having  given  this  book  a  thorough  examination  for  several  months 
and  a  full  trial  of  many  of  its  recipes,  I  do  not  hesitate  to  pronounce  it  the 
most  complete  and  perfect  book  of  the  kind  I  have  ever  seen.  I  have  id- 
lowed  some  time  to  elapse  since  receiving  it,  that  a  careful  examination 
and  trial  of  its  contents  would  enable  me  to  i^Tite  intelligently  of  its  value. 
Every  housekeeper  should  have  a  copy,  as  they  will  find  invaluable  infor- 
mation in  every  department  Tiie  suggestions  and  instructions  ^ven  in 
Che  arrangement  of  the  kitchen  and  dining  room  are  a  great  addition  to 
the  recipes  which  are  all  good  and  have  the  great  advantage  of  being  sim- 
ple and  economical.  Indeed  I  find  it  impossible  to  express  my  full  appre- 
ciation of  this  book,  which,  in  all  its  departments,  seems  to  me  to  be  inde- 
spensable  to  every  housekeeper.    Respectfully, 

Mrs.  Henby  W.  Grady. 
Wife  of  H.  W.  Grady,  "Atlanta  ConstitutiatL^ 


•  *  *  I  have  used  the  "Dixie"  for  about  one  year  and  take  pleas- 
Tire  in  testifying  to  its  merits.  I  have  "Marion  Harland's  Common  Sense 
in  the  Household,"  Housekeeping  in  the  Blue  Grass,"  "Mrs.  Hill's,"  and 
others  too  numerous  to  mention,  but  I  use  none  but  the  "Dixie,"  as  I  have 
found  it  unfailing  and  It  has  everything  a  housekeeper  needs.  Indeed,  I 
rarely  go  to  my  kitchen  without  it,  as  I  find  it  not  only  reliable  but  eco- 
nomical. Mrs.  J.  G.  Earnest. 

192  Whitehall  St  Atlanta,  Ga. 


*  *  I  have  had  many  cookexy  books,  but  the  Dixie  is  the  best 
I  have  ever  used  and  I  can  recommend  it  to  every  housekeeper  as  a 
p&rfect  gem.  Very  Respectfully, 

Mrs.  Abernathy. 

Pulaski,  Tenn.,  Dec.  9, 1888. 


Having  tested  a  number  of  recipes  In  the  Dixie  Cook  Book,  can  heart 
Uy  recommend  it  to  all  housekeepers. 

'M'lML  It*  Si  Cbsmxlil 

So.  PiyoT  street,  Atlanta,  Ga.,  April  1, 188a 


—  4  — 

I  have  very  carefully  examined  and  am  very  much  pleased  \Fitii  jovr 
"Dixie  Cook  Book."    Even  for  those  already  expert  in  the  art  of  excellent 
and  healthful  cooking  in  all  its  many  secrete  of  success,  tlie  "Dixie  Cook 
Book"  will  prove  to  be  the  most  valuable  guide,  reminder  and  referee. 
To  the  inexp<»rt  it  will  become  the  most  copiously  informed  and  speediest 
teacher  "love  or  money"  can  procure,  for  I  find  that  its  handsome  pages 
contain  and  combine  tlie  cream  of  the  culinary  knowledge  and  experience 
of  a  thousand  veterans  of  the  pantry,  the  kitchen  and  the  household.     I 
hope  it  will  have  a  great  sale  among  our  Southern  homes.    It    decidedly 
deserves  a  gilded  niche  in  every  well  ordered  kitchen.     I  find   it  also  a 
very  valuable  guide  and  adviser  in  social,  domestic,  medical  and  house- 
hold affairs.    Replete  with  rare  and  reliable  recipes,  it  covers  a  wide  field  of 
study  and  practical  experience.    Its  medical  part,  well  studied,  will  often 
save  great  pain  as  well  as  tlie  physician's  fee.    I   heartily  conunend  the 
"Dixie  Cook  Book"  to  every  Southern  household,  for  though  I  have  kept 
house  for  nearly  thirty  years  and  used  many  cook  books,  I  have  never 
used  one  that  pleased  me  as  much  in  all  respects  as  the  ''Dixie    Cook 
Book."  Mbs.  Wm.  Henry  Peck. 

255  Peach  Tree  Street,  Atlanta,  Ga.,  April  16, 1883. 


I  have  used  this  book  about  one  year  and  consider  it  the  very  best 
and  most  economical  of  all  cook  books  I  have  ever  examined,  and  I  think 
I  have  tried  almost  every  one  that  was  worth  it. 

Irene  K.  Potts. 

Atlanta,  Ga.  

I  have  used  this  book  for  almost  two  years  and  I  unhesitatingly  pnv 
nomice  it  the  best  I  have  ever  seen.  Not  a  single  failure  have  I  known 
to  be  made  from  any  recipe,  if  carefully  followed. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Jaicas. 

Huntsville,  Ala. 


I  have  three  or  four  cook  books,  but  find  the  "Dixie**  the  best  of  all, 
and  would  advise  all  who  care  for  a  good  work  on  cookery  to  get  this 
^Dixie.**  LOUT  Habbibob. 

Palaaki,  Tenn.,  December  2, 1888. 


%- 


*    A 


* 


