X°°* 


A  *    8    I    A  *  O^" 


W*  \^  %£ 

.A  <  -\ 


^ 


. 


DIXIE    COOKERY: 

OR 

HOV     I     MANAGED 

MY 

FOB       TWELVE        YEARS. 
%  Ipraxiiral  C00h-^0joh 

FOR 

SOUTHERN"    HOUSEKEEPERS. 


/ 
By    MRS.     BARRINGER. 

OF  NORTH    CAROLINA. 


LOEIlsrG,   Publisher, 

BOSTON, 

1867. 


'&%-\1>dS*I 


y 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1SG7,  by 

A.    K.    LORING. 

in  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  for  the  District  of  Massachusetts. 


Rockwell  &  Rollins,  Steeeottpers  and  Printers, 

No.  122  Washington  Street,  Boaton. 


PREFACE 


There  is  a  very  mistaken  notion  at  the  North  and  West,  about 
the  domestic  life  of  Southerners,  Southern  women  especially. 

The  common  idea  is,  that  we  are  entirely  destitute  of  practical 
knowledge  of  household  affairs.  This  is  a  great  mistake.  The 
contrary  is  true. 

A  Southern  woman  must  know  how  to  prepare  any  dish,  for  she 
finds  no  cooks  made  to  order ;  they  must  be  of  her  own  training,  in 
the  minutest  particulars  of  every  department. 

Northern  housekeepers,  in  all  the  large  towns  and  cities,  do  not 
have  to  depend  on  their  own  skill  for  the  delicacies  of  every  de- 
scription that  make  up  the  dainties  of  the  table,  but  we  Southern 
housewives,  even  in  our  larger  towns  and  cities,  all  do  ;  and  North- 
ern visitors  stand  aghast  at  the  amount  of  labor  summoned  up  in 
the  filling  of  our  store-rooms,  and  it  is  difficult  to  convince  them 
that  we  trust  these  preparations  to  no  one  else. 

I  found  every  cook-book  1  took  up  so  deficient  in  economy,  that 
I  determined  to  make  one  for  my  own  guidance,  — the  best  method 
of  enriching  a  larder,  as  well  as  of  insuring  success. 

Hence,  the  exactness  of  measures  given.  My  book  is  entirely 
practical,  —  nothing  else.  It  contains  no  theoretic  dissertations  on 
the  culinary  art,  but  is  made  up  of  Receipts  which  have  been  my 
daily  assistants  for  twelve  years,  in  the  management  of  my  house, 
and  the  preparation  of  various  dishes  served  for  large  and  small 
companies. 
It  treats  of  the  preparation  of 

Soups,  Fish,  Meats,  Poultry,  etc. ; 
Vegetables,  Pickles,  Catsups,  etc. ; 
Bread,  Pastry,  Paddings,  etc. ; 
Cakes,  Preserves,  Jellies,  &c. ; 
Syrups,  Creams,  Cordials,  &c, 


4  PREFACE. 

with  a  few  miscellaneous  receipts  added,  relating  to  care  of  stores 
and  house  generally.  A  regular  breakfast-cake  of  George  Washing- 
ton's, obtained  from  a  relative  of  his,  in  Virginia,  will  attract  great 
attention. 

I  am  largely  indebted  to  an  -English  friend  for  many  of  my  prep- 
arations, and,  after  following  these  directions  for  twelve  years,  can 
safely  recommend  them.  Of  course,  many  of  our  dishes  are  pecu- 
liar to  the  "  South,"  as  the  various  preparations  of  Rice,  Corn  Meal, 
and  even  our  Bread-making.  Our  method  of  preparing  Meats  is 
more  like  that  employed  in  French  cookery. 

At  the  repeated  solicitations  of  friends,  living  in  all  parts  of 
the  "  South,"  I  have  decided  to  give  this  private  experience  of 
twelve  years'  daily  practice  to  the  public,  and  ask  those  who  are 
interested,  to  look  with  favor  on  Dixie  Cookery. 

Maria  Masset  Barringer. 

Concord,  North  Carolina, 
June,  1867. 


DIXIE   COOKERY 


SOUPS. 


Beef  Soup. 

Put  four  pounds  of  fresh  beef  into  four  quarts  of  cold 
water,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Set  it  where  it  will  boil 
slowly,  but  constantly.  Skim  it  well  and  cover  close.  About 
an  hour  before  it  is  done,  skim  off  all  the  fat.  Then  of 
potatoes,  turnips,  tomatoes,  and  celery,  take  a  teacupful  of 
each,  chopped  fine,  and  half  a  teacupful  of  ochra  sliced  thin, 
or  a  less  quantity  of  dried  ochra.  Grate  a  large  carrot 
and  add  it  for  the  coloring  of  the  soup.  If  more  water  is  re- 
quired, use  boiling  water.  A  half  an  hour  before  serving  the 
dinner,  put  in  a  thickening. made  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  flour,  one  of  browned  sugar,  and  three  gills  of  cold 
water,  mixed  thoroughly,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  A 
portion  of  the  beef  may  be  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  and  served 
in  the  soup.  If  the  meat  and  vegetables  are  not  desired  in 
the  soup,  they  may  be  removed  by  straining  it.  This  soup 
will  require  four  hours  to  boil.  Plenty  of  time  must  be  al- 
lowed in  making  soup,  and  a  gentle  heat  is  better  than  fast 
boiling.  The  vegetables  and  flavorings  must  be  in  such  pro- 
portion as  that  no  one  shall  predominate,  and  experience  wTill 
best  decide  the  exact  quantity  of  each. 


Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Boil  a  calf's  head,  a  few  slices  of  ham,  a  head  of  celery, 
and  a  bunch  of  thyme,  and  parsley,  in  two  gallons  of  water 
for  five  hours.     When  they  have  boiled  an  hour,  take  out  the 
1*  .    5 


6  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

head  and  cut  up  the  meat  into  inch-square  pieces.  Let  the 
soup  boil  half  an  hour  longer,  strain  it  and  return  the  meat 
to  it.  Season  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  salt  and  pepper. 
An  hour  before  dinner,  put  in  a  thickening  of  browned  flour 
and  butter  and  water.  A  few  minutes  before  serving,  throw 
in  egg-balls  made  of  grated  }^olks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  little 
flour  and  beaten  yolk  of  egg  about  the  size  of  partridge  eggs. 
Lastly,  put  in  a  half  a  pint  of  good  wine  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  browned  sugar,  and  send  to  table  immediately. 


Squirrel  Soup. 

Cut  up  two  young  squirrels,  and  put  them  in  a  pot  with  five 
quarts  of  cold  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let 
them  boil  until  the  meat  is  very  well  done,  and  remove  it 
from  the  liquor,  and  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces.  Put  in  the 
soup  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  mixed  with  a  little  flour, 
and  a  pint  of  cream.  Throw  in  the  cut  meat,  and  just  before 
you  serve  it  add  the  beaten  3'olks  of  two  eggs  and  a  little 
parsley.  Chicken  soup  is  nice  made  in  the  same  way,  with  the 
addition  of  a  pint  of  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  put  in 
when  it  is  half  done. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of  oysters,  add  to  it  an 
equal  quantity  of  water.  Put  it  on  to  boil,  and  skim  it.  Then 
throw  in  a  little  white  pepper,  a  head  of  celeiy  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  a  third  of  a  pound  of  butter  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  flour  rubbed  in  it.  Boil  it  five  minutes  longer,  and 
put  in  the  oysters  and  a  pint  of  cream,  and  after  one  more 
boil  pour  into  the  tureen,  in  which  have  some  toasted  bread 
cut  in  dice,  and  a  little  finely-cut  parsley. 


Green  Pea  Soup. 

Cut  up  a  small  chicken,  or  take  a  few  slices  of  ham  and 
boil  it  until  the  meat  is  entirely  done.  Remove  the  chicken 
or  meat,  and  throw  into  the  liquor  a  quart  of  shelled  peas, 
and  some  pepper  and  salt.  Set  on  the  fire  and  boil  until  they 
are  entirely  done,  and  here  thicken  the  soup,  when  you  may 


SOUPS. 


add  another  pint  of  peas  previously  boiled  in  a  different  ves- 
sel, and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  goose  egg. 


Oclira  Soup. 

Take  three  pounds  of  fresh  lean  beef,  or  a  fine  fat  chicken, 
and  simmer  in  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water  for  two  hours. 
Skim  off  the  fat  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  up  a 
small  portion  of  the  meat,  and  return  it  to  the  soup.  Add 
a  teacupful  of  sliced  green  ochra  or  a  half  a  teacupful  of  dried 
ochra,  and  a  teacupful  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced.  Boil 
until  the  meat  is  in  shreds,  and  the  vegetables  are  all  to 
pieces. 

Vegetable  Soup* 

Put  a  pint  of  Lima  beans,  a  half  a  dozen  large  tomatoes, 
two  teacupfuls  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  a  few  snap  beans, 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  dried  ochra,  into  five  quarts  of  water, 
with  three  slices  of  lean  ham.  Boil  for  two  hours,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Remove  the  ham  before  sending  to 
table.     Thicken  with  yellow  of  egg  and  a  little  flour. 

A  nice  winter-soup  is  made  by  boiling  a  few  slices  of  lean 
ham,  half  a  pint  of  dried  Lima  beans,  a  few  heads  of  celery 
cut  up,  and  turnips  and  potatoes  sliced  thin.  A  fourth  of  a 
teacupful  of  dried  oclira  will  be  a  nice  addition,  and  a  grated 
carrot,  or  half  a  teacupful  of  stewed  tomatoes,  preserved  in 
cans,  will  improve  the  color.  If  thickening  is  required,  add 
some  made  of  browned  flour  and  water.  Two  tablespoonfuls 
of  pepper-sauce  will  improve  it.  Put  it  in  after  it  is  in  the 
tureen. 

Vermicelli  Soiqj. 

Put  four  pounds  of  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  except  pork, 
into  a  gallon  of  cold  water,  cover  close,  and  boil  gently  until 
the  meat  is  tender.  Throw  in  a  head  or  two  of  celeiy,  and 
half  an  hour  afterwards  take  it  from  the  fire,  strain  it,  and 
return  it  to  the  pot.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  ver- 
micelli, which  has  been  scalded  in  boiling  water,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  four  ounces  to  two  quarts  of  soup.  Let  it  boil  ten 
minutes,  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 


DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Noodle  Soup. 

Is  made  in  the  same  way,  except  that  strips  of  paste  are 
substituted  for  the  vermicelli.  The  paste  is  prepared  by  beating 
three  eggs  very  light,  and  making  them  into  a  stiff  dough 
with  flour  and  water.  They  are  then  kneaded  well  and  rolled 
very  thin,  cut  into  narrow  strips,  and  dried  on  dishes  in  the 
sun,  or  a  moderate  oven.  They  must  be  soaked  a  few  min- 
utes before  putting  them  in  the  soup,  and  will  require  a  little 
more  boiling  than  vermicelli. 


FISH. 

Boiled  Rock  Fish. 


After  the  fish  has  been  nicely  cleaned,  puc  it  into  a  pot 
with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  throw  in  salt  in  the  pro- 
portion of  half  a  teaspoonful  to  a  pound  of  fish.  Boil  it 
slowly  until  the  meat  is  tender,  and  easily  cleans  from  the 
bone.  A  large  fish  will  require  an  hour  to  cook.  When 
done,  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  have  a  few  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  in. thin  slices,  laid  around  it  and  over  it.  Have  egg-sauce 
in  a  boat  to  eat  with  it. 


To  boil  Salt  Shad  or  Mackerel. 

If  very  salt,  the  fish  must  be  soaked  twelve  hours  in  plenty 
of  cold  water.  Or  if  the  water  is  changed,  a  shorter  time 
will  be  required.  Put  it  into  a  skillet  or  frying-pan,  with  cold 
water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Then 
change  the  water  for  fresh  hot  water,  and  after  boiling  in  this 
fifteen  minutes  longer,  take  it  up  and  serve  with  drawn  but- 
ter, and  garnish  with  parsley.  Another  nice  way  to  dress 
salt  fish,  is  to  boil  together  for  ten  minutes  a  teacup  of  cream,, 
some  cut  parsley,  and  a  little  butter  and  pepper,  and  if  the 
cream  is  not  very  thick,  a  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and  pour  it 
over  the  fish  when  it  is  ready  to  send  to  the  table. 


FISH. 


To  boil  Salt  Salmon. 

Let  it  soak  twelve  hours,  and  boil  slowly  for  two,  when 
serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Salmon  is  nicely  pickled  thus  :  After  boiling  as  above,  cut 
it  up  in  pieces  four  inches  square,  and  put  into  a  jar,  and 
pour  over  it  hot  vinegar,  in  which  a  few  whole  grains  of  pep- 
per and  allspice  have  been  boiled.  Serve  this  cold  for  lunch- 
eon or  tea.    It  will  keep  two  weeks,  if  the  weather  is  cool. 


To  bake  a  Shad. 

Prepare  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  parsley,  and  mix  this  up  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  fill  the 
fish  with  it,  and  tie  a  string  around  it.  Pour  over  it  a  little 
water  and  some  butter,  and  bake  as  you  would  a  fowl.  A 
shad  will  require  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to 
bake. 

Rock  fish  is  baked  in  the  same  wa}^,  but  requires  a  longer 
time  to  cook. 

Stewed  Oysters. 

Take  the  liquor  from  five  hundred  oysters,  and  strain  and 
boil  the  one-half  of  it.  Add  Ihree-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
butter  to  the  boiling  liquor,  and  when  it  is  melted  put  in  the 
oysters.  As  soon  as  they  have  commenced  boiling,  take  them 
out,  and  throw  them  in  cold  water  to  give  them  firmness. 
Whilst  the  oysters  are  in  the  cold  water,  stir  into  the  boiling 
liquor  a  pint  of  sweet  cream. 

When  the  mixture  boils  again,  return  the  oysters  to  it,  and 
simmer  a  few  minutes  until  Uiey  are  thoroughly  heated,  and 
they  are  ready  to  serve. 


Scalloped  Oysters. 

Fill  a  buttered  dish  with  alternate  la3rers  of  oysters,  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  grated  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  butter,  and  salt, 
taking  care  to  have  a  thick  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Place  in 
a  hot  oven,  and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.     You 


10  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

may  add  spice  if  j^ou  like  it.     No  oyster  liquor  need  be  put 
in,  as  there  will  be  enough  when  they  are  cooked. 


Fried  Oysters.  ■ 

Select  the  finest  sized  oysters,  drain  them,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Beat  up  an  egg,  and  dip  them  first  in  it, 
and  then  in  corn-meal  or  grated  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  butter. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 


Oyster  Pie. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  with 
butter,  and  pepper,  and  a  thickening  of  bread-crumbs  and 
milk  well  beaten  together,  and  after  boiling  a  few  minutes, 
throw  in  the  oysters.  Let  them  remain  five  minutes,  take 
them  off,  and  when  warm  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Line  a  buttered  dish  with  a  rich  paste,  and  fill  with  white 
paper  or  a  clean  napkin,  to  support  a  lid  of  paste,  and  bake 
it.  When  lightly  browned,  take  off  the  lid,  remove  the.  nap- 
kin, pour  in  the  oysters,  set  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven,  and 
send  to  table  hot. 


Plain  Oyster  Pie. 

Fill  a  deep  dish  with  two  quarts  of  oysters  (uncooked  and 
without  the  liquor),  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and 
grated  bread.  Cover  with  strips  of  paste  crossed.  It  will 
require  a  quick  heat  for  half  an  hour,  to  cook  it.  Three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  two  quarts  of  oysters,  will 
make  a  rich  pie. 


To  pickle  Oysters. 

To  the  liquor  of  one  hundred  oysters,  add  one  teacup  of 
vinegar.  Boil  and  skim  it,  and  put  in  the  oj^sters  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  quantity  of  pepper,  and  let 
the  whole  simmer  a  few  minutes  together. 

In  cold  weather,  they  will  keep  several  days. 


FISH.  11 


To  stew  Terrapins. 

Wash  two  terrapins  in  warm  water,  and  throw  them  into  a 
pot  of  boiling  water,  which  will  kill  them  instantty.  Let  them 
boil  until  the  shells  crack,  when  they  must  be  taken  from  the 
fire,  the  shells  taken  off,  and  the  entrails  removed.  Wash 
them,  and  cook  until  tender,  when  the  gall  must  be  carefully 
removed,  and  the  sandbag  and  liver  taken  out.  Put  the  flesh, 
cut  up,  into  a  stewpan,  with  the  liquor  it  has  been  boiled  in,  and 
season  with  salt,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  butter,  and  stew  them 
half  an  hour. 

Then  add  a  thickening  of  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
some  butter  rolled  in  Hour,  and  two  wineglasses  of  Madeira 
wine.     Serve  on  a  chafing-dish. 


Lobster  Salad. 

Make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
some  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  oil  and  mustard,  and  some 
vinegar. 

Make  these  ingredients  into  a  smooth  paste,  about  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream.  Mash  the  coral  meat  of  the  lobster, 
and  with  a  little  cold  water,  just  enough  to  soften  it,  and  cut 
up  a  head  of  lettuce  into  small  pieces,  and  mix  with  it.  Sea- 
son the  lettuce  and  meat  with  Cayenne  pepper  and  a  little 
salt,  and  mix  them  with  the  dressing  just  before  sending  to 
table. 

The  different  condiments  must  be  in  such  proportion  that 
no  one  shall  predominate.* 


To  fry  Clams. 

After  opening  them,  wash  them  in  their  own  liquor,  drain 
them,  and  make  a  batter  of  an  egg,  flour,  and  pepper.  Dip 
them  in  this,  and  fry  in  hot  butter. 


12  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

EGGS. 

Omelet. 

Beat  eight  eggs  with  some  salt,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
and  a  teacup -of  cream.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  skil- 
let, and  when  it  is  melted  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  stir  with 
a  spoon  until  it  begins  to  foam.  Shake  a  little  pepper  over 
it,  and  dish  it  with  one  half  folded  over  the  other. 


Oyster  Omelet. 

Beat  six  eggs  well,  and  add  by  degrees  a  gill  of  cream,  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Have  ready  one  dozen  large 
oysters  cut  in  halves  ;  pour  the  eggs  into  a  pan  of  hot  butter,  and 
drop  the  oysters  over  it  as  equally  as  possible.  Fry  to  a  light 
brown  and  serve  as  an  omelet.     It  must  not  be  turned. 


Poached  Eggs. 

Have  some  boiling  water  in  a  skillet  over  a  quick  fire. 
Break  the  eggs  into  it  carefully,  and  sprinkle  salt  over  them. 
"When  the  white  is  well  set  take  them  up  with  an  egg-spoon, 
pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  season  with  black  pepper, 
and  serve  on  J>uttered  toast.  Or  you  may  omit  the  toast  and 
add  a  little  vinegar  to  the  melted  butter. 


To  boil  Eggs. 

If  you  wish  them  quite  soft,  drop  them  into  boiling  water  for 
two  minutes  and  a  half,  but  three  minutes  will  be  necessary 
if  you  wish  the  yolk  set  slightly.  Ten  minutes  will  be  re- 
quired for  eggs  for  salad,  or  dressing  poultry,  and  they  should 
be  dropped  into. cold  water  for  a  few  minutes  to  cool.  If  }7ou 
use  a  tin  boiler  without  a  spirit-lamp,  pour  boiling  water  on 
the  eggs  for  five  minutes,  and  then  replace  it  with  a  fresh  sup- 
ply of  boiling  water  ;  send  to  table,  and  in  five  minutes  more 
they  will  be  ready  to  eat. 


EGGS.  13 


Scrambled  Eggs. 


Beat  six  or  eight  eggs  very  light,  add  a  little  salt,  and  put 
into  a  warm  frying-pan  with  some  butter.  Stir  them  until 
they  are  well  thickened,  but  not  hard  ;  sprinkle  a  little  pepper 
over  them,  and  send  to  table  in  a  hot  dish. 


Eggs  and  Potatoes. 

Remove  the  skins  from  some  boiled  Irish  potatoes,  and 
when  perfectly  cold  cut  them  up  in  small  pieces  about  the  size 
of  a  grain  of  corn,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  To  a 
quart  of  potatoes  thus  prepared,  take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
and  the  whites  of  three,  and  beat  them  well  together.  Have 
some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  melted  put  in  the 
potatoes.  When  they  are  quite  hot  stir  in  the  eggs,  and  con- 
tinue stirring  so  as  to  mix  them  well  with  the  potatoes,  and 
until  the  eggs  are  set.  Then  pepper,  and  send  them  to  table 
in  a  hot  dish. 


Eggs  and  Rice. 

Take  six  eggs  and  beat  them  well.  Have  a  quart  of  cooked 
rice  well  boiled  and  steamed,  and  when  perfectly  dry,  stir  in 
the  eggs  and  season  with  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  The 
proportion  of  egg  is  one  to  every  tablespoonful  of  rice.  Cold 
rice  is  nice  dressed  in  this  manner  for  breakfast.  If  you  use 
rice  cooked,  the  previous  day  stir  in  a  little  butter  with  it 
when  you  put  it  in  the  kettle  to  soften. 


Eggs  and  Cheese. 

Beat  up  eight  eggs  to  a  thick  froth,  put  in  a  little  salt,  a 
half  a  teacup  of  grated  cracker  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese.  Tut  into  a  frying-pan  with  some  butter,  and 
cook  and  serve  as  an  omelet. 


14  DIXIE   COOKERY. 


Eggs  and  Beef. 


Chip  some  dried  beef,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it  to 
freshen  it.  Pour  off  the  water  and  put  a  little  butter  into  the 
skillet  with  the  meat.  .  When  it  is  hot  stir  in  three  or  four 
eggs  until  they  are  well  mixed  with  the  meat ;  pepper,  and 
send  to  the  breakfast-table  hok 


To  Preserve  Eggs  for  Winter  Use. 

Pack  them  with  the  small  ends  downwards,  and  put  in  al- 
ternate layers  of  salt  and  eggs  until  the  vessel  is  full.  Or 
pour  three  gallons  of  hot  water  on  a  pint  of  lime,  and  a  half 
a  pint  of  salt.  When  it  is  cold,  pour  over  the  eggs  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  One  cracked  egg  will  spoil  them  all.  The 
best  test  of  the  freshness  of  eggs  is  dropping  them  into  a 
pan  of  cold  water.  Those  that  sink  are  fresh  enough  to  pack 
away. 


SAUCES 

Drawn  Butter. 


Mix  well  together  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Put  a  pint  of  water  into  a  rice-kettle, 
and  when  it  boils  stir  in  the  flour  and  butter.  Season  with 
salt  and  white  pepper,  and  eelery  if  in  season,  removing  the 
stalks  of  celery  before  sending  to  the  table.  It  will  require 
but  a  few  minutes'  boiling,  and  must  be  stirred  constantly. 


Egg  Sauce 

Is  made  as  drawn  butter,  with  the  addition  of  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  stirred  in  a  few  minutes 
before  removing  from  the  fire.  This  sauce  is  usually  served 
with  fish. 


SAUCES.  15 


Celery  Sauce. 

Cut  up  a  large  bunch  of  celery  into  small  pieces.  Use  onty 
that  which  is  blanched,  throwing  aside  the  green  tops.  '  Put  it 
into  a  pint  of  water  and  boil  until  it  is  tender.  Then  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
mixed  well  together.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and 
stir  constantly  until  removed  from  the  fire.  It  is  nice  with 
boiled  poultry. 


Celery  Sauce  for  Cold  Turkey. 

Boil  six  eggs  until  the}'  are  hard,  and  drop  into  cold  water 
to  prevent  the  whites  from  discoloring.  Mash  the  }rolks  to  a 
smooth  paste,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of  mustard,  and  four  of  good  vine- 
gar. Salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste.  Add  half  a  pint  of 
drawn  butter,  and  when  all  are  well  mixed,  stir  in  a  half  a 
pint  of  cut  celery,  and  serve  at  once. 


Oyster  Sauce. 

Set  the  oysters  in  their  liquor  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes 
until  the}'  look  plump.  Then  remove  them  from  the  liquor 
and  stir  into  it  some  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together ;  some 
salt  and  pepper.  Stir  it  well,  and  when  it  has  boiled  ten 
minutes  throw  in  the  oysters,  and  add  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
if  you  like  it,  and  serve  immediately.  This  is  a  "nice  accom- 
paniment to  boiled  fowls. 


Caper  Sauce. 

To  a  pint  of  drawn  butter  add  one  tablespoonful  of  fresh 
butter,  two  of  capers,  and  two  of  vinegar,  or  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Throw  in  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  after  stirring 
over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes  pour  into  the  sauce-tureen,  and 
send  to  table. 

Pickled  nasturtiums  are  an  admirable  substitute  for  capers, 
and  pickled  cucumbers,  cut  fine,  may  be  used. 


16  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Tomato  Sauce. 


Stew  a  dozen  large  tomatoes  with  Cayenne  pepper,  and  salt 
until  they  become  like  a  marmalade.  Pass  them  through  a 
sieve  to  remove  the  seeds,  and  stir  until  it  is  of  the  consist- 
ency of  very  thick  cream.  Then  add  a  half  a  pint  of  nice 
broth  and  a  little  butter.  Or  if  you  have  no  broth,  a  little 
warm  water,  and  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cracker,  or  bread  may  be  stirred  in 
just  before  sending  to  table.  In  seasoning  this  sauce  use 
very  little  pepper.  It  will  be  a  nice  accompaniment  to  beef- 
steak, or  beef  a-la-mode,  or  cold  roast  beef. 


Mint  Sauce, 

Take  the  leaves  of  young  mint  and  cut  up  finely,  and  to 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  mint  add  one  of  sugar,  and 
vinegar  sufficient  to  moisten  the  mint  and  sugar  well.  Put  in 
a  little  salt,  and  serve  with  roast  lamb. 


MEATS,    POULTRY,     Etc. 

To  boil  a  Turkey  or  Pair  of  Fowls. 

After  the  turkey  is  well  cleaned,  it  should  lie  in  salt  and 
water  for  a  few  minutes.  Fill  the  body  with  a  stuffing  of 
bread  anct  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley.  If  oysters  are  in 
season,  a  dozen  large  ones,  minced  fine,  are  a  nice  addition. 
Pin  the  poultry  in  a  towel,  and  put  it  into  boiling  water,  with 
a  little  salt,  and  a  head  of  celery  in  it.  When  half  done,  add 
a  pint  of  milk.  It  must  not  boil  very  fast,  or  it  will  break  to 
pieces. 

A  small  turkey  will  boil  in  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  a  large 
one  in  three  hours.  A  pair  of  fowls  will  require  from  an  hour 
to  an  hour  and  a  half,  according  to  their  age.  If  oysters  are 
added  to  the  stuffing,  the  poultry  must  be  served  with  oyster' 
sauce. 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  17 


To  boil  Beef  Tongue ,  Corned  Beef  etc. 

Let  the  tongue  soak  in  cold  water  for  twelve  hours 
previous  to  boiling.  Then  put  it  into  a  pot  of  cold  water, 
and  let  it  boil  slowly  for  three  hours.  Serve  with  mashed 
Irish  potato  on  the  same  dish.  If  you  have  two  tongues  for 
dinner,  place  one  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  cut  up  the  other 
in  slices,  and  serve  on  the  mashed  potato,  and  garnish  with 
parsley.  Or  you  may  serve  without  the  potato,  and  drop  a 
small  quantity  of  lemon  or  cranberry  jelly  on  each  of  the  cut 
slices  of  tongue,  and  border  with  sprigs  of  parsley  laid  around 
on  the  dish. 

Corned  beef  should  be  well  soaked,  and  boiled  slowly, 
skimming  it  well.  A  piece  of  meat  weighing  ten  or  twelve 
pounds,  will  require  from  three  to  four  hours'  boiling. 


To  boil  a  Leg  of  Mutton. 

Cut  the  end  of  the  knuckle  from  the  leg,  and  put  it  into  a  pot 
with  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Throw  in  a  little  salt, 
and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours  and  a  half.  If  more 
water  is  required,  pour  in  boiling  water  from  the  kettle.  It 
must  be  well  done.  Serve  with  caper  sauce.  Have  a  plate 
of  current  jelly  beside  it. 


To  boil  a  Tripe. 

After  cleansing  the  tripe  thoroughly,  wash  it  well,  trim  off 
the  fat,  put  it  into  cold  water,  and  boil  it  until  it  is  tender.  An 
hour  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  add  a  quart  of  milk  to 
the  water.  When  it  is  cold,  put  it  into  a  deep  bowl,  and  cover 
with  weak  vinegar.  It  will  keep  thus  a  week,  if  the  weather 
is  cold. 

To  boil  Pigs'  Feet. 

First  clean  them  well  by  dipping  them  in  scalding  water, 
8,nd  scraping  off  the  hairs  and  hoofs,  after  which  put  them 
into  weak  salt  and  water  for  a  day.  They  are  then  ready  to 
boil  for  souse. 

2* 


18  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

If,  however,  you  wish  to  keep  them  for  frying,  or  stewing, 
they  may  be  preserved  in  this  weak  salt  and  water  for  three 
or  four  weeks.  If  the  weather  is  warm,  the  salt  and  water 
may  require  to  be  changed.  They  must  be  soaked  in  fresh 
wTater  all  night,  before  boiling  them:  Boil  them  in  cold  water 
until  tender. 

To  boil  a  Ham. 

Soak  the  ham  overnight,  and  put  it  into  cold  water  and  let 
it  cook  slowty,  very  slowly,  for  four  or  five  hours  in  a  covered 
vessel.  Skim  it,  leaving  a  small  piece  upon  the  knuckle, 
which  carve  handsomely,  and  serve  with  a  paper  frill  tied 
around  the  knuckle-bone,  or  some  fine  bunches  of  curled 
parsley.  If  the  ham  is  more  than  a  year  okl,  soak  it  well, 
and  boil  it  for  six  or  seven  hours  —  changing  the  water  three 
or  four  times. 

To  roast  a  Pig. 

Rub  the  inside  of  the  pig  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  the 
body  with  a  stuffing  of  bread,  butter,  parsley,  sage,  and 
thyme,  softened  with  a  little  hot  water,  and  beaten  yolk*  of 
egg,  and  sew  it  up  with  a  strong  thread.  Put  the  pig  on  the 
spit,  first  flouring  the  skin,  that  it  may  be  crisp.  Put  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water  into  the  dripping-pan,  a  spoonful  of  lard, 
and  a  little  salt,  and  baste  the  pig  frequently  with  this,  and 
turn  often,  so  that  every  part  will  be  well  clone.  When  the  skin 
begins  to  get  stiff,  grease  it  with  butter  or  lard,  and  baste  it 
no  more  after  this,  or  it  will  blister.  A  pig  will  require  from 
three  to  four  hours  to  roast.  Chop  up  the  heart  and  liver, 
previously  boiled  in  water,  and  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan, with  salt,  thyme,  and  brown  flour,  and  water,  as  a 
thickening.  Apple-sauce,  cold  slaw,  and  cranberries,  are  the 
usual  accompaniments  of  roast  pig. 


To  roast  a  Leg  of  Pork. 

Cut  the  skin  in  squares,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
"*  baste  with  salt  and  water. 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  19 


Roast  Beef. 

Season  the  beef  with  -pepper  and  salt,  and  skewer  it  well  to 
the  spit.  Pat  a  pint  of  water  and  a  little  lard  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan. Turn  the  meat  frequently.  Baste  it  with  the 
liquid  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  a  short  while  before  it  is 
clone,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it.  When  the  beef  is  nearly 
done,  pour  the  gravy  into  a  skillet,  and  thicken  it  with  a 
little  brown  flour  and  water  rubbed  together.  If  too  fat, 
remove  the  top  by  skimming  it.  It  will  be  most  likely  to  suit 
all  tastes  if  one-half  of  the  meat  is  well  done,  and  the  other 
side  less  cooked,  so  as  to  furnish  rare  slices  for  those  who 
prefer  it  thus.  Grated  or  scraped  horse-radish  is  nice  with 
beef  thus  cooked. 

To  roast  Mutton. 

Baste  the  meat  with  salt  and  water,  and  roast  very  slowly 
at  first.  Turn  the  spit,  that  it  may  be  equally  done.  Dredge 
over  a  little  flour,  and  baste  the  meat  with  its  own  gravy 
about  a  half  an  hour  before  sending  it  to  the  table.  Pour  a 
glass  of  wine  in  the  gravy.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  and  pour  in 
the  sauce-tureen. 

Serve  currant  jelly  with  it. 


To  roast  a  Turkey. 

Wash  the  turkey  very  clean,  and  let  it  lie  in  weak  salt  and 
water  over  night.  When  ready  to  put  to  roast,  rub  it  dry  in 
the  inside,  and  sprinkle  in  a  little  pepper.  Make  a  stuffing 
of  two-thirds  wheat  bread  and  one-third  corn  bread,  rubbed 
fine,  and  'softened  with  butter  and  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  celery.  Mix  the 
stuffing  well  together,  and  fill  the  turkey.  Rub  the  breast  of 
the  turkey  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Have  water  and 
lard  in  your  dripping-pan,  and  baste  often.  It  will  require 
three  hours  to  roast.  Pea  fowl  and  Guinea  fowl  are  roasted 
and  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

Cranberry-sauce  is  almost  indispensable  with  this  dish. 
Celery,  too,  usually  accompanies  it. 


20  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


To  roast  a  Goose, 

Have  the  goose  prepared  the  night  previous  to  cooking. 
Fill  the  body  with  a  stuffing  of  bread,  sage,  ttryme,  a  little 
onion',  and  some  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  and  a  very  little  but- 
ter. Add  salt  and  pepper  and  yolk  of  egg,  and  baste  the 
same  as  a  turkey.  Pour  off  most  of  the  fat  that  drips  from 
the  goose,  or  the  gravy  will  be  too  rich.  The  gravy  is  the 
same  as  for  turkey.     Apple-sauce  to  be  served  with  it. 


To  roast  a  Duck. 

Prepare  it  for  the  spit  in  the  same  way  as  a  goose.  Stuff 
with  sage,  onion,  thyme,  bread-crumbs,  and  butter,  and  baste 
them  well  with  salt  and  water  and  their  own  gravy.  It  will 
require  an  hour  to  cook.  Serve  with  currant  jelly  or  apple- 
sauce. Muscovy  ducks  should  be  pinned  up  in  a  cloth,  and 
buried  in  the  earth  twelve  hours  before  cooking,  to  extract 
the  strong  flavor  they  have.  They  must  be  dressed  for  cook- 
ing before  being:  buried. 


Boasted  Chickens. 

Stuff  and  baste  them  as  turkeys  are  done,  and  serve  with 
cranberry  or  celery-sauce. 


To  bake  a  Beef's  Heart. 

Cut  it  open,  remove  the  ventricles,  and  let  it  soak  an  hour 
in  lukewarm  water,  to  free  it  from  the  blood.  Wipe  dry  with 
a  cloth,  and  parboil  in  a  little  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Make 
a  rich  stuffing,  fill  the  heart  with  it,  and  secure  it  with  a  string. 
Let  it  bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  two  hours,  with  a  half  a 
pint  of  water,  in  the  oven  or  dripping-pan.  The  gravy  will 
not 'need  any  thickening,  but  will  be  improved  by  a  glass  of 
wine.  Serve  in  a  chafing-dish,  and  with  currant,  or  any  acid 
jelly. 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  21 


Beef  a-la-Mode. 

-Take  part  of  a  round  of  beef,  bone  it,  and  make  incisions, 
which  are  filled  with  a  stuffing  of  bread,  butter,  thyme,  pep- 
per, salt,  a  little  minced  onion,  and  yolk  of  egg.  After  the 
meat  is  stuffed,  bind  it  with  tape,  and  put  in  an  oven,  with 
water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stew  slowly  for  three 
hours.  Keep  a  lid  on  the  oven  whilst  it  is  stewiug,  and  if 
more  water  is  needed,  add  boiling  water.  The  gravy  will 
require  no  thickening,  but  a  glass  of  wine  will  improve  it. 


Beef  Steak. 

Have  the  steaks  cut  an  inch  thick,  and  beat  them  with  a 
steak-mallet.  Broil  over  good  coals,  and  cook  slowly.  Turn 
frequently,  and  dip  it  in  a  gravy  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
whenever  you  turn  it.  When  done,  serve  in  a  chafing-dish, 
with  melted  butter  poured  over  it. 


French  SteaJc. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  and  put  in  a  chafing-dish  ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  walnut  catchup,  a  little  vinegar,  a 
little  warm  water,  and  plenty  of  butter,  with  some  browned 
flour  rubbed  into  it.  The  meat  should  be  entirely  covered 
with  the  grav}'.  Light  the  lamp  and  put  on  the  lid  of  the 
chafing-dish,  and  let  it  steam  thus,  until  the  gravy  is  reduced 
two-thirds.     A  nice  breakfast  dish. 


To  fry  Liver. 

It  should  be  cut  across  the  grain  in  slices  half  an  inch 
thick.  Then  put  into  a  deep  plate,  and  pour  boiling  water 
over  it.  .  Let  it  lie*thus  for  a  few  minutes,  drain  it,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Dip  each  piece  in  flour,  and  drop  in 
hot  lard.  Let  it  be  thoroughly  done,  but  not  hard.  Make  a 
gravy  as  for  beef,  and  pour  over  it. 


22  DIXIE    COOKERY, 


To  fry  Veal. 


Cut  the  meat  in  thin  slices,  rub  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip 
in  flour,  and  drop  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard.  When  of  a  fine 
brown,  take  it  up,  and  make  a  gravy  with  cream  or  milk 
poured  in  the  skillet,  and  pour  over  the  veal.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Cut  the  veal  in  slices  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dip  in  beaten  yolk  of  egg, 
and  then  in  grated  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
When  the  veal  is  done,  take  it  up,  and  pour  into  the  gravy  some 
cream  or  milk,  a  little  cut  parsley,  and  some  salt  and  pepper. 
Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  veal,  and  send  t 
table  very  hot. 


Mutton  Chops. 


' 


Cut  the  chop  an  inch  thick,  and  with  or  without  bone.  Rub 
the  gridiron  with  a  little  suet,  and  put  on  the  chops.  Turn 
frequently,  and  when  cooking,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  plenty  of  butter. 


Force  Meat  Balls. 

Take  one  pound  of  veal,  a  pound  of  suet,  two  slices  of 
ham,  and  some  crumbs  of  bread.  Chop  them  fine,  and  mix 
with  them  the  3rolks  of  two  eggs.  Season  with  thyme,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  parsley.  Roll  in  small  balls,  and  fry  them 
brown.  They  are  nice  in  soups,  and  to  garnish  hashes  01 
roast  veal. 

To  bake  Fowls. 

Season  and  stuff  as  for  roasting.  Put  into  a  baking-pan  or 
oven,  with  a  pint  of  water  to  two  chickens.  If  the  chickens 
are  young,  split  them  down  the  back,  and  put  into  an  oven  with 
some  water  and  butter.  Rub  some  butter  or  lard  on  the 
breast,  and  dredge  with  flour.     Baste  with  the  gravy  in  the 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  •  23 

oven.     Thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter   and  water 
mixed  together. 


'ov 


To  fricassee  Chickens. 

Cut  up  the  chickens,  and  put  to  soak  in  cold  water  for  an 
hour  ;  then  throw  them  in  weak  salt  and  water,  and  let  them 
soak  another  hour.  Tut  them  into  a  pot,  with  water  enough  to 
cover  them,  some  salt,  and  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream 
or  some  milk.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  mixed  with 
flour,  and  stew  all  together  for  an  hour. 

Before  it  is  dished,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
and  a  little  finely-cut  parsley  or  celery. 


Broiled  Chickens. 

Split  the  chickens  down  the  back,  and  let  them  lie  all  night 
in  salt  and  water,  if  desired  for  breakfast.  Put  them  on  the 
gridiron  over  bright  coals,  and  cover  them  with  a  plate,  which 
will  make  them  cook  faster.  Season  them  with  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt,  whilst  cooking.  Boil  the  giblets  in  water,  and 
chop  them  fine.  Make  a  gravy  of  these,  and  a  little  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  broiled,  and  some  butter  and  cut 
parsley.     Pour  over  the  chickens,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 


To  fry  CJiickens. 

Cut  up  the  chickens,  and  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water 
twenty  minutes  ;  drain  them,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Dip  each  piece  separately  in  flour,  and  drop  into  a  frying- 
pan  of  hot  lard.  When  well  browned,  turn  the  other  side  to 
fry.  Take  up  the  chicken,  and  pour  into  the  pan  a  little  warm 
water,  and  a  thickening  of  milk  and  flour,  some  salt,  and  a 
little  butter.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  over  the 
chickens. 

Chickens  fried  in  batter  are  prepared  in  the  same  way,  dip- 
ping them  in  a  batter  instead  of  flour,  before  frying  them. 
The  batter  made  of  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  teacup  of  milk, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Lard  is  nicer  for 
frying  them  than  butter. 


24  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Chicken  Pie. 


Cut  up  the  chickens  into  joints,  and  season  them  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  parsley.  If  they  are  old,  parboil  them  a  few 
minutes,  and  save  the  water  to  put  in  the  pie.  Make  rather 
a  rich  paste,  and  cover  the_  bottom  and  sides  of  a  deep  dish 
with  it.  Then  put  in  alternate  layers  of  chicken,  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices,  butter,  pepper,  celery,  and  a  little 
flour  from  your  clredging-box.  Fill  the  dish  two-thirds  fall  of 
cold  water,  and  add  half  a  teacup  of  cream  or  milk.  Put  on 
a  top  paste,  and  close  the  pie  around  the  edge,  and  make  an 
opening  in  the  middle  with  a  knife. 

It  will  require  about  an  hour  to  bake.  A  few  slices  of  lean 
ham  is  an  addition  liked  by  many  persons.  If  oysters  are  in 
season,  they  are  nice,  put  in  alternate  layers  with  the  chicken. 


Chicken  Pie  ivith  Pice. 

Cut  up  three  young  chickens  into  joints,  and  drop  them  into 
weak  salt' and  water  for  a  half  an  hour.  Have  ready  two 
quarts  of  rice  boiled,  but  not  steamed,  into  which  stir  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  butter,  a  quart  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  six 
well-beaten  eggs.  Put  into  your  baking-dish  half  the  quantity 
of  this  mixture,  and  place  the  chicken  and  a  few  slices  of  ham 
in  it.  Then  pour  in  the  remainder  of  the  rice  and  egg,  and 
rub  a  little  flour  and  milk  smoothly  together,  and  put  on  the 
top,  to  make  it  brown  nicely.  This  pie  will  be  sufficient  for 
twenty  persons. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Take  two  well-boiled  chickens,  and  when  cold,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  removing  the  skin  and  bone.  Mix  with  this  cut 
chicken  four  times  as  much  cut  celery  (or  lettuce-heads  and 
celerymixed)  as  3^011  have  chicken.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  3'our  taste.  Take  the  3Tolks  of  eight  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  mash  them  to  a  yaste  with  the  back  of  a  spoon, 
using  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  to  soften  them.  To 
this  add  a  little  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  made  mustard, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  six  spoonfuls  of 
salad  oil,  with  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.     Hub  these 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  25 

together  until  they  are  quite  smooth.  Half  an  hour  before 
the  salad  is  sent  to  table,  mix  this  dressing  thoroughly  with 
the  chicken  and  celery. 


Venison  Steaks. 

Broil  over  bright  coals,  basting  frequently  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper,  and  serve  on  a  chafing-dish  with  a  gravy  of  but- 
ter, and  port  or  claret  wine  in  it,  if  desired. 


To  roast  Venison. 

Make  a  dough  of  flour  and  water,  and  roll  it  out  an  inch 
thick.  Rub  the  meat  with  lard,  and  wrap  the  dough  around 
it.  When  half  done,  remove  the  dough,  and  baste  the  meat 
frequently  with  butter,  and  water,  and  claret  wine,  and  dredge 
with  flour.  It  will  require  five  or  six  hours  to  roast.  Serve 
currant  jelly  with  it. 

Make  a  sauce  by  skimming  the  fat  from  the  gravy  in  the 
dripping-pan,  and  adding  some  butter  with  brown  flour  mixed 
in  it,  pepper,  salt,  and  currant  jelly,  to  your  taste.  Cold 
roasted  venison  makes  fine  French  steak. 


Boasted  Hare. 

Having  trussed  the  hare,  prepare  a  rich  stuffing  of  corn  and 
wheat  bread,  mixed  and  rubbed  fine,  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
tlryine,  and  beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Stuff  the  body  of  the  hare 
and  tie  it  up,  and  rub  the  skin  with  butter,  and  roast  before 
the  fire,  as  sucking  pig  is  done.  It  will  require  from  two  to 
three  hours  to  cook.  Serve  with  currant  jelly.  Add  wine  to 
the  gravy,  if  you  like  it. 


Rabbit  Stew. 

Cook  them  with  a  little  chopped  onion  in  a  stewpan,  with 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  butter  and  cream,  pepper 
and  salt,  added  when  they  are  nearly  done.  Or  add  nothing 
but  butter  and  wine  to  the  gravy. 

3 


26  DIXIE   COOKERY. 


Wild  Ducks. 


After  they  are  cleaned,  and  ready  for  cooking,  wrap  them 
in  a  clean  cloth,  and  bury  twelve  hours  in  the  earth,  to  remove 
the  strong  flavor  of  this  bird.  They  are  usually  cooked  with- 
out stuffing.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  to 
cook  them. 

When  you  dish  it,  draw  a  sharp  knife  three  times  through 
the  breast,  and  pour  over  a  gravy  of  a  little  hot  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  a  sprinkling  of  Cayenne  pepper,  a^nd  a  wine- 
glass of  port  wine.  This  is  poured  over  as  they  go  on  the 
table. 

Fricassee  of  Squirrels. 

Put  two  young  squirrels  into  a  pot  with  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter, one  or  two  ounces  of  ham,  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  just 
water  enough  to  cover  them.  Let  them  stew  slowly  until 
tender.  Take  them  up,  and  pour  half  a  teacup  of  cream  and 
a  beaten  yolk  of  egg  into  the  gravy,  and  when  it  has  boiled 
five  minutes,  pour  over  the  squirrels  in  the  dish.  Some 
persons  prefer  a  wineglass  of  red  wine,  and  omit  the  cream 
and  egg. 

Fried  Squirrel. 

Cut  up  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  clip  each  piece 
in  beaten  yolk  of  egg  and  grated  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
until  of  a  nice  brown. 

Squirrel  Pie. 

Cut  them  up,  and  parboil  in  water,  with  a  little  salt  in  it, 
for  half  an  hour.     Then  proceed  as  in  chicken  pie. 


Pigeon  Pie. 

Having  picked  and  cleaned  five  pigeons,  stuff  them  with  a 
stuffing  of  grated  cold  ham,  some  salt,  and  grated  cracker, 
some  pepper  and  butter.  If  asparagus  is  in  season,  the  green 
tops  may  be  substituted  for  the  cracker..   Pour  milk  and  water 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  27 

into  the  dish  until  the  pigeons  are  nearly  covered.  Put  a  lid 
of  paste  on  the  top,  and  bake  an  hour.  If  you  wish  the 
pigeons  very  tender,  parboil  them  twenty  minutes,  and  use 
the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  to  make  the  pie. 


Broiled  Partridges. 

Cut  them  up  the  back,  and  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for 
an  hour.  Baste  frequently  whilst  on  the  gridiron  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.     Serve  on  a  chafing-dish. 


Baked  Partridges. 

Pick  and  clean  the  birds,  and  stuff  them  with  chopped  pars- 
ley or  celery,  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  softened  with 
melted  butter,  and  some  salt  and  pepper.  Rub  a  little  on  the 
breasts,  and  dredge  them  with  flour.  Set  them  in  a  baking- 
pan  in  the  stove,  or  in  an  oven,  and  pour  a  half  pint  of  water 
around  them,  with  a  little  butter  in  it.  Baste  occasionally 
with  this  gravy.  They  will  require  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
to  cook.  They  may  be  cut  up  the  back  as  for  broiling,  and 
baked  without  stuffing. 

A  Partridge  Pie. 

Take  four  partridges,  and  clean  them  nicely,  and  cut  each 
one  into  four  pieces.  Season  with  plenty  of  butter,  some 
salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in  six  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  thin, 
and  two  heads  of  celery  cut  fine.  Fill  the  dish  half  full  with 
water,  and  pour  in  half  a  teacup  of  cream.  Cover  with  a  lid 
of  paste,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  centre.  If  preferred,  you  may 
stuff  the  partridges  with  oysters  and  a  lump  of  butter,  instead 
of  disjointing  them. 

Turkey,  and  Chicken  Hash. 

Break  the  bones  and  stew  them  in  water  for  half  an  hour, 
and  then  remove  them,  and  pour  in  the  gravy  left  the  previous 
day,  and  the  chicken  or  turkey  cut  up  in  small  pieces.  Thicken 
with  a  little  of  the  turkey  from  the  body  of  the  fowl,  and 


28  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.     Stew  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  covered  vessel,  and  serve  on  toasted  bread. 


Beef  Hash. 

Make  a  rich  gravy  by  stewing  the  fat  of  the  beef,  and  the 
bones  broken  up,  with  a  very  little  minced  onion,  in  as  ranch 
water  as  will  cover  them,  for  half  an  hour.  Then  put  in  a 
thickening  made  of  a  little  water  and  brown  flour,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Cut  up  the  beef  in  small  pieces,  and 
stew  gently  in  this  gravy  for  a  half  an  hour.  Stew  in  a  deep 
dish  with  toasted  bread  in  the  bottom  of  it.  Have  the  gravy 
the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 


Baked  Hash. 

Cut  up  some  cold  beef  into  small  pieces,  slice  some  cold 
Irish  potatoes,  and  put  into  a  deep  dish  with  some  gravy  left 
from  the  roast,  and  some  butter,  pepper,  salt,  cut  parsley,  and 
a  little  water,  and  bake  about  a  half  an  hour  in  the  stove  or 
oven. 

To  stew  Pig's  Feet. 

Boil  four  feet,  take  out  the  bones,  and  put  them  in  a  vessel 
with  a  little  vinegar  and  water,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
goose  egg,  and  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  stew  for  a  half  an 
hour,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  Or  they  are  nice  dressed  as 
terrapins. 

To  fry  Pig's  Feet. 

Split  them  in  halves  lengthwise,  dip  them  in  batter,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard.  They  must  previously  have  been  soaked  several 
hours  in  vinegar. 

You  can  fry  them  in  vinegar  and  water  without  lard,  and 
they  will  be  very  nice. 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  29 


To  cook  Tripe. 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  flour,  and  milk.  Cut  the  tripe  into 
pieces,  three  inches  square,  and  dip  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard.  Or  you  may  dip  in  egg  and  grated  cracker,  and  fry. 
Tripe  is  nice  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  stewed  with  butter,  vin- 
egar, pepper  and  salt. 

Sausage  Meat. 

To  eighty  pounds  of  chopped  meat,  which  should  be  one- 
third  fat  and  two-thirds  lean,  add  two  pounds  of  fine  salt,  one 
pint  of  pulverized  sage,  six  ounces  of  ground  pepper,  and 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar.     Mix  all  well  together. 


Bologna  Sausage. 

Ten  pounds  of  beef  and  two  pounds  of  the  fat  of  fresh 
pork.  Chop  fine  and  mix  well  together.  Season  with  five 
ounces  of  fine  salt,  one  ounce  of  black  pepper,  one  half-ounce 
of  cayenne,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cloves.  Put 
this  mixture  into  skins  tied  tight,  and  lay  in  strong  salt  and 
water  for  ten  days,  turning  them  once  or  twice.  Then  hang 
them  up  to  smoke  a  few  days.  They  can  be  put  in  the  same 
brine  with  corned  beef  or  tongues. 


Liver  Pudding. 

Take  one  hog's  head,  two  livers,  with  the  lights  and  heart, 
and  boil  all  together.  Skim  the  pot.  When  the  livers  are 
done  remove  them,  and  let  the  others  boil  longer.  "When  they 
are  all  done,  take  the  bones  from  the  meat,  and  chop  all  to- 
gether. Season  with  sage,  thyme,  salt,  and  pepper.  Pack  in 
jars  while  soft,  and  cut  out  in  slices  and  fry  as  it  is  wanted. 


Scrapple. 

Take  the  scraps  of  pork  and  the  heads,  and  boil  in  water 
until  the  meat  is  tender.     Pick  out  the  bones  and  chop  it  fine. 


30  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

Strain  the  liquor,  and  pour  it  back  into  the  pot.  Put  in  the 
meat,  and  season  with  sage,  and  salt,  and  pepper,  to  the  taste. 
Stir  in  corn  meal  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  thick  mush. 
Let  it  cook  about  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Re- 
move from  the  fire  and  put  in  deep  pans,  and  fry  in  thick 
slices. 

WJiite  (Suet)  Pudding. 

To  two  pounds  of  suet  rubbed  as  fine  as  flour,  one  pound 
of  corn-meal,  and  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour.  Season 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon  (ground),  two  and  a 
half  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper  (ground),  and  a  little  more 
than  four  spoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  these  ingredients  thor- 
oughly, and  stuff  with  the  fingers  into  the  medium-sized  skins 
of  the  beef,  after  they  are  well  cleaned,  and  soaked  in  weak 
salt  and  water  for  twenty-four  or  thirty-six  hours,  changing 
the  water  once  a  day.  Tie  the  ends  of  the  skins  tightly  with 
strong  thread,  and  throw  the  puddings  into  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  let  them  remain  for  a  half  an  hour,  or  till  thor- 
oughly clone.  Prick  them  with  a  sharp  fork  before  you  put 
them  in,  to  prevent  them  from  bursting  whilst  boiling.  Take 
them  out  of  the  water,  and  spread  on  waiters  to  dry  in  the 
sun,  or  air,  until  the  e::ds  are  perfectly  dry.  Turn  tjiem  every 
day.  If  put  away  before  the  ends  are  dry,  they  will  mould. 
Pack  away  in  a  box,  and  they  will  keep  six  months.  When 
you  cook  them,  drop  them  in  boiling  water  for  twenty  min- 
utes, and  then  put  them  on  a  gridiron  for  ten  minutes,  and 
brown  them,  and  send  to  table  in  a  hot  dish. 


A  Nice  Breakfast  Relish. 

Chip  some  smoked  beef,  and  drop  into  boiling  water  to 
soften.  Let  it  lie  ten  minutes,  and  then  put  it  into  a  skillet 
with  a  little  boiling  water,  and  stir  gently  for  twenty  minutes. 
Pour  off  the  water,  put  in  a  little  butter,  and  some  pepper,  and 
pour  in  a  half  a  teacup  of  cream,  five  minutes  before  taking 
from  the  fire. 


MEATS,    POULTRY,    ETC.  31 


Corned  Beef. 

Put  the  beef  into  cold  water  for  twentjT-fonr  hours,  to  draw 
off  the  blood.  Let  it  drain  well  before  putting  it  into  the 
brine.  Take  one  gallon  of  salt  to  eight  gallons  of  water,  one 
half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  a  quart  of  molasses,  a  pint  of  sugar, 
and  one  or  two  pods  of  red  pepper.  Boil  and  skim  it,  and 
when  perfectly  cold,  pour  it  over  the  beef.  If  the  weather  is 
warm,  add  one  quart  of  salt  to  the  above.  If  the  pickle  sours, 
pour  it  off,  boil,  let  it  cool,  and  pour  over  the  meat  again. 
Keep  the  meat  under  the  brine  by  weights. 


To  piclde  Beef's  Liver.    \ 

"Wash  the  livers,  and  put  them  into  a  strong  brine,  and  let 
them  lie  three  weeks.  Then  hang  and  smoke  them,  as  beef  is 
done,  until  properly  dry. 

They  make  a  nice  relish  for  breakfast  by  stewing  them  for 
half  an  hour  in  water,  and  dressing  them  with  cream  and  cut 
parsley.  They  must  be  shaved  thin  like  chip  beef,  and  soaked 
ten  minutes  in  warm  water  before  stewing. 

Another  way  is  to  warm  it  up  in  a  little  butter,  after  it  is 
soaked  fresh. 

To  cure  Beef  and  Tongues,  Dried  Beef  etc. 

Make  a  pickle,  as  for  corned  beef,  and  after  the  meat  and 
tongues  have  lain  in  this  three  weeks,  hang  up  and  smoke 
until  dry,  but  not  hard.  If  the  tongues  are  put  up  in 
autumn,  whilst  the  weather  is  warm,  a  better  way  is  to  cut 
open  the  root  of  the  tongue  about  an  inch,  and  rub  in  the 
opening  a  little  salt  and  saltpetre,  and  pack  them  away  in 
salt.  The  water,  adhering  to  the- tongues  when  washed,  and 
the  juice  from  them,  will  make  a  very  strong  brine,  which  will 
preserve  them,  in  warm  autumn  weather,  for  a  month  or  six 
weeks.     Then  hang  and  smoke. 

If  the  pieces  of  beef  lie  as  long  as  six  weeks  in  salt  pickle, 
soak  them  twenty-four  hours  in  cold  water,  before  smoking 
them.  A  whole  beef  ham  may  be  pickled  thus.  Legs  of  mut- 
ton, pickled  as  beef,  are  almost  as  nice  as  venison-ham,  for 
chipping. 


32  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus. 

Put  the  stalks  into  bundles  ;  cut  them  the  same  length,  tie 
up  with  strings,  and  boil  in  hot  water  without  salt  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  strings,  and  serve  on  but- 
tered toast ;  pour  over  some  pressed  butter,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

You  may  omit  the  toast,  and  add  a  little  vinegar  to  the 
butter.  The  stalks  must  be  scraped  below  the  green  head 
before  boiling,  and  kept  in  water  until  ready  to  cook.  If 
your  bed  does  not  yield  a  sufficient  quantity  of  asparagus  for 
a  meal  at  one  cutting,  bury  the  cut  stalks  in  the  asparagus 
bed,  pinned  up  in  a  cloth,  until  you  have  a  dish  full. 

Beans. 

String,  and  break  them  in  halves  ;  boil  in  salt  and  water, 
and  throw  in  a  piece  of  soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  if  they  are  old, 
or  you  wish  them  a  fine  color.  Boil  them  for  an  hour  and  a 
half ;  pour  off  the  water,  and  dress  with  butter  and  cream,  and 
sprinkle  over  some  pepper.  But  a  more  common  way  is  to 
boil  them  with  a  piece  of  thin  middling. 

Lima  Beans. 

Let  them  boil  about  an  hour,  and  when  the  water  is  poured 
off,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Send  to  table  hot. 
Dried  Lima  beans  must  be  soaked  over  night,  and  boiled  two 
hours,  or  until  they  are  soft,  and  should  have  some  cream 
added  to  the  dressing. 

To  boil  Cabbage. 

Cut  the  heads  in  quarters,  and  wash  in  cold  water,  and  boil 
with  a  piece  of  thin  middling.  Pour  in  fresh  hot  water  from 
the  kettle,  when  the  cabbage  is  put  on  to  boil,  or  it  will  be 
too  rich.     It  will  boil  in  a  half  an  hour  in  winter,  but  before 


VEGETABLES.  33 

frost  it  will  take  an  hour.     It  is  nice,  boiled  with  corned  beef, 
skimming  the  pot  well  before  putting  it  in. 


Stuffed  Cabbage, 

Take  a  large,  firm  head  of  cabbage,  put  it  into  boiling 
water  with  some  salt,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  Take  it 
out,  and  drain  it,  and  carefully  remove  the  heart,  leaving  the 
inside  leaves  whole.  Boil  three  eggs  hard,  and  cut  fine,  and 
mix  in  with  a  stuffing  of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  and  pepper, 
and  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  some  raw,  lean  ham,  minced 
fine.  Fill  the  cabbage  with  this  stuffing,  and  tie  up  the  cab- 
bage with  strips  of  cloth,  to  keep  the  outside  leaves  together. 
Then  put  back  into  a  pot  of  fresh,  boiling  water,  and  cook 
until  tender,  and  serve  with  melted  butter  poured  over  it. 


Cold  Slaw. 

Take  vinegar  and  water  in  equal  proportions  (unless  the 
vinegar  is  very  strong)  ;  add  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a 
little  flour.  Pour  into  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  until 
it  is  thick ;  then  pour  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
some  salt.  When  it  has  been  on  the  fire  ten  minutes  more, 
stir  in  the  cabbage,  nicely  shreded  with  a  cabbage-cutter.  The 
cabbage  must  be  taken  up,  as  soon  as  it  is  hot.  .    . 

You  may  add  a  saltspoonful  of  mustard  to  the  sauce,  if 
you  like  it.     Salt  the  cabbage. 


Warm  Slaw. 

Make  a  sauce  of  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  a  teacup  of  vinegar,  a 
teacup  of  sour  cream,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  and 
when  it  begins  to  thicken,  put  in  the  cut  cabbage,  and  stir 
until  it  is  hot.     Add  salt  and  pepper,  to  the  taste. 


Cold  Slaio  {very  fine) . 

Take  a  plate  of  cut  cabbage,  a  teacupful  of  chopped  celery, 
and  a  third  of  a  teacup  of  grated  horseradish.     Season  with 


34  DIXIE   COOKERY. 

salt.  Make  a  dressing,  as  for  lettuce,  with  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  "boiled  hard,  rubbed  into  a  smootu*  paste,  with  oil,  mus- 
tard, salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  and  the  cabbage  stirred  into 
this  cold  mixture  a  few  minutes  before  dinner. 


Cucumbers. 

Remove  the  rinds  in  long,  thick  slices.  Cut  them  on  a  cab- 
bage-cutter in  very  thin  slices,  and  lay  them  into  cold  water, 
—  ice-water,  if  you  can  get  it.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  lay 
into  a  dish,  with  small,  thick  lumps  of  ice  through  them,  and 
strong  vinegar  poured  over.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
before  putting  them  into  the  dish. 


Celery. 

Scrape  the  outside,  cut  the  root  off,  and  split  the  head  in 
halves.  Wash  well,  wipe  dry,  and  serve  in  a  celery-glass. 
Leave  on  a  few  green  leaves. 


Corn. 

Remove  the  silk,  and  drop  into  boiling  water  with  a  little 
salt  in  it,  for  half  an  hour.  If  it  is  old,  it  will  take  an  hour. 
Lay  a  napkin  on  a  dish,  put  in  the  corn,  and  fold  the  napkin 
over,  to  keep  it  hot. 

Cor  n-  Oysters. 

Cut  the  corn  through  the  grain,  and  use  a  knife  to  scrape 
the  pulp  from  the  cob.  Make  a  batter  of  4wo  eggs  well  beaten, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  some 
milk,  with  a  quart  of  the  pulp.  Beat  the  whole  well  together, 
and  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into  hot  lard,  and  fry  brown. 


Green-Corn  Pudding. 

Pulp  the  corn  in  the  same  way,  as  for  corn-oysters.     Take 
two  eggs,  a  quart  of  milk,  some  flour,  and  salt,  and  the  corn, 


VEGETABLES. 


35 


and  beat  it  well.  It  must  be  of  a  consistency  to  pour  easily. 
Grease  the  dish  with  butter,  pour  in  the  pudding,  and  bake 
with  a  quick  heat  for  half  an  hour.  Six  ears  of  corn  will  be 
sufficient  for  a  quart  of  milk. 


Beets. 

They  are  usually  plain  boiled,  and  dressed  with  melted 
butter  and  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  But  they  are  sweeter, 
roasted  in  the  fire  as  potatoes,  or  baked  in  an  oven  or  stove, 
and  then  dressed  as  above. 


Egg  Plant. 

Cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  thick  with  salt, 
and  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  to  extract  the  bitter  taste. 
Wash  in  cold  w^ter ;  wipe  them  dry.  Season  with  pepper. 
Dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter,  or  dip  in  yolk  of  egg  and 
grated  cracker. 

When  wanted  for  breakfast,  some  persons  cut  them  the 
night  before  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  soak  in  the  morning 
in  fresh  water  for  an  hour  before  frying. 


.   Baked  Egg  Plant. 

Parboil  them  ten  minutes  ;  cut  them 'in  halves,  ana  remove  the 
seeds  ;  fill  with  a  stuffing  of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  close  them,  and  tie  a  string  around  each 
one.  Put  a  little  water  in  the  oven,  or  pan,  and  cook  them 
slowly  for  half  an  hour,  basting  them  with  butter.  Serve  with- 
out gravy. 


Hominy. 

Soak  it  over  night  and  boil  for  three  or  four  hours,  if  large 
hominy ;  and  if  small  it  will  cook  in  an  hour.  Dress  with 
butter  and  salt. 


36  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Onions. 

Boil  in  water  until  nearly  done,  and  then  pour  over  fresh  hot 
water  with  milk  in  it.    Drain,  and  pour  over  melted  butter. 


Salsify  or  Oyster  Plant. 

Scrape  the  roots  in  milk  to  prevent  discoloring,  and  make  a 
batter,  by  adding  two  eggs,  salt,  and  butter,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  on  a  hot 
water  dish. 

Lettuce. 

Make  a  dressing  of  oil,  mustard,  pepper,  salt,  vinegar,  and 
yolk  of  eggs  boiled  hard  and  mashed  up,  and  made  into  a 
smooth  paste  with  the  other  ingredients.  The  proportions  of 
each  so  that  the  taste  of  no  condiment  shall  predominate.  Put 
this  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  your  salad  bowl,  and  lay  the 
lettuce,  nicely  arranged,  upon  it.  When  you  serve  at  table, 
cut  up  the  salad,  and  mix  with  a  box-wood  spoon  and  fork 
with  the  dressing,  before  helping  it. 


Ochra. 


Boil  the  young  pods  in  water  until  tender,  and  dress  with 
melted  butter,  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt. 

If  you  wish  them  for  winter  use,  slice  them  very  thin,  and 
dry  on  dishes  in  the  sun,  and  put  away  in  paper  bags. 


Boiled  Irish  Potatoes* 

If  they  are  young,  put  them  in  a  bucket  of  cold  water,  scrape 
off  the  skins,  wash  them,  and  drop  into  boiling  water.  When 
soft,  dress  with  cream  and  melted  butter. 

If  you  wish  to  have  them  mashed,  pare  them,  and  put  into 
plenty  of  boiling  water  until  half  done.  Then  renew  the  boiling 
by  pouring  over  fresh  hot  water,  and  when  barely  done,  pour  off 
the  water,  and  let  them  steam  ten  minutes,  when  they  must  be 


•  VEGETABLES.  37 

mashed,  and  dressed  with  butter  and  salt,  and  served  in  a  hot 
water  dish.  Or  you  may  put  the  potatoes  in  a  steamer  over 
boiling  water,  and  boil  till  tender  ;  press  one  by  one  in  a  nap- 
kin to  remove  all  the  moisture,  and  lay  on  a  hot  water  dish 
with  a  lid,  and  serve. 


Stewed  Irish  Potatoes. 

Slice  thin,  and  boil  in  water  till  tender  ;  pour  off  the  water 
and  put  in  some  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  rich  cream  and  a  dust 
of  flour.  Before  taking  up,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg, 
with  some  chopped  parsley.     It  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 


Fried  Irish  Potatoes. 

Cut  cold  potatoes  in  thin  slices  ;  drop  into  boiling  fat  until 
of  a  nice  brown  ;  take  up  with  a  perforated  ladle.  Sprinkle  a 
little  fine  salt  over  them,  and  serve  very  hot. 


Sweet  Potatoes. 

Bake  them  slowly  in  an  oven,  or  peel  them,  and  slice  in 
large  slices  and  put  into  a  baking  dish,  with  plenty  of  butter, 
a  little  water,  and  some  sugar,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which 
they  are  cooked.  There  must  be  plenty  of  butter  on  them 
when  sent  to  table. 


To  stew  Tomatoes. 

Wash,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them  ;  peel  off  the  skins, 
and  cut  them  up.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  butter, 
and  cook  in  their  own  juice  a  half  an  hour.  Thicken  with 
bre#l-crunibs,  and,  after  ten  minutes,  take  them  up. 


To  put  up  Tomatoes  for  Winter. 

Wash,  scald,  skin,  and  cut  up,  the  tomatoes,  and  stew  for 
half  an  hour  without  any  seasoning,  and  fill  your  cans  without 
4 


38  DIXIE    COOKERY.  • 

removing  the  vessel,  in  which  the}'  are  cooking,  from  the  fire. 
Let  the  can  also  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  whilst  it 
is  being  filled.  When  fall,  put  on  me  lid,  and  a  heavy  weight 
on  it,  and  let  it  remain  until  the  wax  in  the  groove  of  the  can 
is  cold. 

JSpinach. 

Boil  it  in  salt  and  water,  pour  over  melted  butter  and  vine- 
gar, and  sprinkle  on  some  pepper,  and  serve  with  poached 
eggs,  laid  over  the  top  of  the  spinach. 

Poke  sprouts,  when  two  or  three  inches  above  the  ground, 
are  nice,  tied  in  bundles  as  asparagus,  and,  after  standing  in 
boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes,  dressed  in  the  same  way  as 
spinach.     Serve  it  without  eggs. 


Green  Peas. 

Shell  them,  and  drop  into  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour. 
If  not  verjr  young,  a  little  soda,  the  size  of  a  pea,  will  improve 
the  color,  and  make  them  tender.  Dress  them  with  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper. 

Cauliflowers,  etc. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  water,  and  when  it  boils, 
put  in  the  cauliflowers,  and  boil  till  tender.  Pour  drawn  but- 
ter over  them,  and  send  to  table  hot.  Broccoli  is  cooked  in 
the  same  way. 

Squashes. 

Cut  them  up,  and  remove  the  seeds,  and  cook  in  hot  water 
until  tender.  Then  mash  them,  and  dress  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper. 

They  are  nice,  cut  in  thick  slices,  and  fried  as  egg-plant* 


Winter  Squash. 

Cut  the  end  off,  and  take  out  the  seeds,  and  set  it  into  the 
stove  to  bake  until  tender.     Then  take  it  out,  put  in  plenty 


VEGETABLES.  39 

of  butter,  and  stir  through  the  squash,  and  return  to  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Send  to  the  table  in  the  skin  in  which  it  is 
baked. 

Parsnips. 

Scrape  and  split  them,  and  put  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
until  tender.  Dress  with  plenty  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Or  3rou  may  parboil  them,  and  dip  into  beaten  egg  and  grated 
cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


Turnips. 

They  are  dressed  like  parsnips.  But  a  nicer  way  is  to 
grate  the  raw  turnips,  and  stir  into  a  sauce  of  egg,  vinegar, 
butter,  and  flour,  and  when  it  has  boiled  till  of  the  consistency 
of  cream,  put  in  the  turnips,  give  it  another  stir  or  two,  and 
take  up  at  once.     This  is  called  turnip-slaw. 


To  boil  Rice. 

Pick  and  wash  a  teacupful  of  rice,  and  put  into  a  rice- 
kettle,  with  a  pint  of  cold  water  ;  cover  close,  and  let  it  steam 
a  few  minutes  after  it  is  tender,  so  that  every  grain  will  stand 
alone.     It  will  cook  in  twenty  minutes  over  a  bright  fire. 


To  cook  Macaroni. 

Put  the  macaroni  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little 
salt  in  it,  and  let  it  cook  ten  minutes.  Then  pour  on  fresh 
hot  water  and  milk  in  equal  quantities,  and  boil  ten  minutes 
more.  Then  put  it  into  a  deep  dish,  with  alternate  layers  of 
butter  and  grated  cheese,  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  maca- 
roni on  the  top,  with  a  little  butter  on  it  without  cheese. 

Bake  in  an  oven  or  stove  for  half  an  hour. 


40  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

PICKLES  AND   CATCHUPS. 

0  Mustard  Pickles. 

Take  two  large  boxes  of  mustard,  and  rub  into  it  one-third 
of  a  pint  of  salad-oil  and  a  little  vinegar,  until  a  smooth  paste 
is  made.  Add  to  this  half  an  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  white  pepper,  cayenne  pepper,  grated 
horseradish,  and  white  ginger  and  celery  seed.  Put  in  two 
teacupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  and  then  put  all  these  ingredients 
into  a  stone  jar  two-thirds  full  of  vinegar.  Set  the  jar  into  a 
vessel  of  cold  water  over  the  fire,  and  boil  for  two  or  three 
hours,  stirring  occasionally.  After  it  comes  from  the  fire,  put 
in  white  mustard-seed,  and  a  little  turmeric.  The  color  will 
be  finer  if  the  cinnamon  is  omitted.  Fill  the  jar  with  white 
cabbage-heads  cut  up  fine,  tender  beans,  or  corn,  small  onions, 
and  sliced  cucumbers. 

This  pickle  will  keep  for  a  year  or  two,  and  as  the  vegeta- 
bles are  used,  more  can  be  put  in.  If  you  wish  the  cabbage- 
heads  in  quarters,  you  must  first  scald  them  in  brine  until  they 
are  half  done,  and  then  put  them  on  dishes  for  a  day,  and 
squeeze  out  the  moisture  in  a  napkin  before  putting  in  the  vin- 
egar. 

Carolina  Yellow  Pickle. 

Six  ounces  of  turmeric  tied  in  a  bag,  six  ounces  of  white 
pepper,  three  ounces  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  and  a 
half  of  white  pepper.  Put  these  ingredients  into  vinegar,  and 
let  it  stand  two  weeks  before  the  cabbage  is  put  in. 

Quarter  the  heads  of  cabbage,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  scald  in  the  same  salt 
and  water  which  has  formed  a  pickle  around  them,  and  after, 
wiping  dry,  put  into  the  vinegar. 

Virginia  Yellow  Pickle. 

Two  and  a  half  gallons  of  good  vinegar,  seven  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  of  ginger, 
one  half  pound  of  white  pepper,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  tur- 


PICKLES   AND    CATCHUPS.  41 

meric,'one  bos  of  mustard,  and  two  ounces  of  nutmeg,  mace, 
celery-seed,  allspice,  and  grated  horseradish.  Mix  the  tur- 
meric with  a  small  portion  of  vinegar,  as  you  do  mustard,  and 
add  to  the  spiced  vinegar,  or  tie  it  up  in  a  thin  bag.  Slice  and 
scald  two  dozen  large  onions  ;  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  let 
them  stand  a  day,  then  drain  well,  say  for  six  hours,  and  wash 
them  in  vinegar,  and  throw  into  the  jar  of  spiced  vinegar  with 
half  a  dozen  lemons  or  limes  sliced  thin.  Select  firm  heads 
of  cabbage,  split  them  in  halves,  or  quarter  them,  scald  them 
in  brine  that  will  bear  an  egg  until  they  are  half  done,  drain 
them,  and  squeeze  the  moisture  out  with  a  napkin,  and  lay  in 
the  sun  for  one  day.  Put  them  in  plain  vinegar  for  a  fortnight, 
after  which  they  must  be  drained  and  sunned  another  day,  be- 
fore they  go  into  the  spiced  vinegar.  This  vinegar  may  be 
prepared  at  any  season,  and  the  cabbage  added  when  you 
choose.  One  jar  of  vinegar  will  make  three  of  pickled  cab- 
bage. The  spices  must  all  be  pounded  (but  not  finely)  before 
putting  into  the  vinegar.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  week. 
Keep  the  jar  covered  tightly. 


Mango  Pickles. 

Put  them  in  salt  and  water  three  or  four  days,  then  cut  a 
slit  from  one  end  to  the  other,  and  take  out  all  the  seeds,  and 
wipe  dry  with  a  towel.  *Then  soak  the  melons  over  night  in 
lukewarm  water.  The  next  day  put  them  in  a  bright  brass 
kettle,  with  warm  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  a  piece  of 
alum,  and  simmer  gently  for  three  hours.  Let  them  cool,  and 
put  them  into  warm  water  again  to  simmer,  until  they  are  fresh 
enough.  Then  soak  a  day  and  night  in  warm  vinegar.  Make 
a  stuffing  of  sliced  cucumbers,  onions,  horseradish  grated, 
celery-seed,  mustard-seed  (white  and  black),  green  pepper, 
cut  fine,  and  a  little  oil.  Mix  all  well  in  a  bowl,  and  put  in 
the  melons.  Tie  them  up  and  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  and 
pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  pour  a  little  oil  over  the  top,  and  seal  up,  and  they 
are  good  for  years. 

Bell  Pepper  P icicles. 

Gather,  wipe  dry  with  a  towel,  cut  a  slit  in  the  pepper,  and 
insert  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  drop  into  cold  vinegar. 
4* 


42  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Peach  Mangoes. 

Take  fresh,  unbruised  clingstones,  and  throw  them  into  salt 
and  water  twenty-four  hours.  Remove  the  stones  with  a  fruit- 
knife,  and  put  them  into  cold  vinegar  and  water  in  equal 
parts.  Make  a  stuffing  of  grated  horseradish,  white  mustard- 
seed,,  mace,  cloves,  allspice,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  a  very  little 
minced  onion,  with  brown  sugar  enough  to  make  the  stuffing 
rich.  Fill  the  cavities,  plug  the  holes,  tie  a  thread  around 
them,  and  drop  the  peaches  into  cold  vinegar.  Some  persons 
use  free-stone  peaches,  and  put  a  little  turmeric  in  the  stuffing. 


Small  Cucumbers. 

Gather  them  from  two  to  four  inches  long,  and  drop  into 
strong  vinegar,  with  mustard-seed,  pepper,  and  celery-seed,  in 
it.     Tie  them  close.     Martinas  are  pickled  in  the  same  way. 


Cucumbers. 

Make  a  strong  salt  and  water,  and*  let  the  cucumbers  lie  in 
it  for  two  weeks.  Then  soak  all  night  in  fresh  water.  The 
next  day  put  them  into  a  bright  brass  kettle,  with  a  little 
alum,  and  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Put  grape-leaves  on 
top,  and  a  plate  to  keep  in  the  steam.  Simmer  gently  for  a 
half  a  day.  Let  them  get  entirely  cold,  and  then  put  them 
into  fresh  alum  water,  over  the  fire,  and  continue  doing  this, 
until  they  are  quite  fresh.  Then,  if  they  are  a  fine  green,  put 
them  into  a  jar,  and  boil  some  vinegar  and  spices  in  a  porce- 
lain kettle,  and  pour  over  them.  Have  plenty  of  vinegar  to 
cover  the  pickles,  and  cork  them  up  tightly. 


Clierry  Pickles. 

Wash  the  cherries,  leaving  the  stems  on.  Put  them  into  a 
jar,  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar,  cloves,  and  cinnamon,  and 
pour  cold  vinegar  over  them. 


PICKLES    AND    CATCHUPS.  43 


Cabbage  Pickle, 

Cut  up  the  cabbage  on  a  cabbage-cutter,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  drain  it,  and  press  out  any  moisture 
that  remains.  Put  it  into  a  jar,  with  layers  of  white  mustard- 
seed  between,  and  fill  with  cold  vinegar. 


Nasturtiums. 

Drop  them  into  a  jar  of  strong  vinegar,  as  you  gather  them, 
and  tie  up  the  jar  close. 

Onions. 

Peel  small  white  onions,  pour  boiling  milk  and  water  over 
them,  and  when  cold,  put  them  into  a  jar  with  white  mustard- 
seed  and  horseradish,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them. 


Ripe  Tomatoes. 

Take  small,  round  tomatoes,  and  prick  them  with  a  needle, 
and  let  them  lie  a  week  in  salt  and  water.  Then  wash  them 
well,  and  drain  them  for  ten  hours.  Put  into  ajar,  with  white 
pepper  sprinkled  over,  some  mustard-seed,  and  one  or  two 
pods  of  red  pepper  sliced.  Pour  strong,  cold  vinegar  over 
them,  and  they  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days.  Keep 
them  covered  close. 


Green  Tomatoes. 

Slice  thin  on  a  cabbage-cutter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let 
them  stand  six  hours.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  press  out  the 
remaining  moisture.  Cut,  salt,  and  drain  some  onions  in  the 
same  way,  and  put  into  the  jar  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes, 
onions,  sliced  green  peppers,  spices,  and  a  little  brown  sugar, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  teacupful  to  every  gallon  of  tomatoes. 
Pour  cold  vinegar  over  them.  About  one-fourth  of  the  pickle 
.should  be  onions. 


44  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Tomato^  Mangoes. 


Cut  a  small  piece,  the  size  of  a  saltspoon  bowl,  from  the 
top,  and,  with  a  small  teaspoon,  remove  the  seeds.  Sprinkle 
salt  in  them,  and  let  them  lie  thus  for  a  &&y  and  night.  *Tken 
soak  them  in  lukewarm  water,  with  alum  in  it,  until  green  and 
fresh  enough  to  stuff.  Make  a  stuffing,  as  for  other  mangoes, 
and  fill  and  tie  them  up,  and  pour  cold  vinegar  over  them. 
They  will  be  ready  for  use  much  sooner,  by  putting  them  into 
vinegar  for  twenty-four  hours  before  stuffing  them.  They  are 
very  nice.     Bell  peppers  are  made  in  the  same  way. 


Walnut  Pickles,  Black. 

Gather  the  walnuts,  whilst  soft  enough  to  run  a  pin  through 
them ;  put  them  into  an  iron  pot,  and  boil  in  water  until  the 
hull  comes  off  easily.  Put  into  a  tub  of  cold  water  ;  hull  them, 
and  wash  them,  and  put  them  into  jars.  Pour  moderately 
strong  salt  and  water  over  them,  and  let  them  remain  in  this 
a  week,  changing  the  brine  once  during  this  time.  At  the  end 
of  this  time,  scald  them  in  weak  vinegar,  and  let  them  stand 
in  this  four  clays  ;  then  pour  it  off,  and,  to  a  peck  of  hulled 
walnuts,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cloves,  a  teacup  of  mus- 
tard-seed, two  spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  a  pint  of  grated 
horseradish,  two  pods  of  red  pepper,  some  sliced  onions,  and 
garlic,  and  put  in  with  the  walnuts,  and  pour  over  them  cold 


White  Walnuts. 

Take  them  when  so  soft  a  pin  will  run  through  easily.  Boil 
a  pickle  of  salt  and  water  that  will  bear  an  egg,  skim  it,  and 
when  it  is  cold,  pour  over  the  walnuts.  Let  them  stand  in  this 
brine  fourteen  clays,  and  then  throw  them  into  cold  water  for  two 
clays.  Boil  them  in  weak  vinegar,  and  let  them  lie  in  this  a 
week.  Simmer  enough  of  strong  vinegar  to  cover  them. 
Mix  together  grated  horseradish,  cloves,  mustard-seecl,  and 
red  pepper.  Put  the  walnuts  into  the  jar  in  alternate  layers 
with  the  condiments,  and  pour  the  scalded  vinegar  over  them. 


PICKLES    AND    CATCHUPS.  45 


Sweet  Piclde  Peaches  {excellent?) . 

Pare  the  pickles  and  cut  them  in  halves,  and  to  two  pounds 
of  fruit,  take  #one  quart  of  vinegar,  and  one  pound  of  sugar. 
Put  the  sugar  and  vinegar  over  the  fire,  skim  it,  and  when  it 
has  simmered  fifteen  minutes,  put  on  the  peaches,  and  let  them 
remain  until  they  are  slightly  cooked,  but  not  soft.  Boil  cin- 
namon and  mace  in  the  syrup.  Cloves  are  nice,  but  discoloi 
the  fruit. 

Spiced  Peaches. 

Take  nine  pounds  of  clingstone  peaches,  ripe,  but  not  soft, 
pare  and  halve  them,  or  leave  them  whole.  Make  a  syrup  of 
four  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  a  pint  of  good  vinegar,  some 
mace  and  cinnamon,  and  skim  it  well.  Let  it  cook  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  and  then  throw  in  the  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time,  so 
as  to  keep  them  as  whole  as  possible,  and  when  clear,  take 
them  out  and  lay  on  dishes,  and  put  in  more ;  when  all  are 
done,  pour  the  syrup  over  the  peaches. 


Sauce  of  Cherries  or  Damsons,  for  Meats. 

Allow  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit, 
and  to  every  seven  pounds  of  fruit  a  pint  of  strong  vinegar. 
Put  all  in  together,  and  let  them  cook  slowly  until  they  are 
done.  Then  take  the  fruit  from  the  syrup  and  put  on  dishes. 
Let  the  syrup  boil  longer  until  it  is  rich,  adding  cloves  and 
four  sticks  of  cinnamon.  Pour  over  the  fruit  in  jars,  whilst 
hot. 

Watermelon  Sweet  Pickles. 

Two  pounds  of  watermelon  or  muskmelon  rinds  boiled  in 
pure  water  until  tender.  Drain  them  well.  Then  make  a 
syrup  of  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  half  an 
ounce  of  mace,  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  some  roots  of  gin- 
ger boiled  until  thick,  and  pour  over  the  melons  boiling  hot. 
Drain  off  the  syrup,  heat  it  until  boiling  hot,  and  pour  over 
the  melons  three  days  in  succession.  They  are  very  nice,  and 
will  keep  two  years. 


DIXIE    COOKERY. 


White  Walnut  Catchup. 

Gather  the  walnuts  when  soft  enough  to  run  a  pin  through, 
put  them  in  salt  and  water  for  ten  days  ;  then  pound  them  in 
a  mortar  or  pot,  and  to  every  dozen  walnuts  put  a  quart  of 
strong  vinegar  and  stir  it  occasionally.  Then  strain  it  through 
a  bag,  and  to  every  quart  of  liquor  put  a  teaspoonful  of  pounded 
mace,  the  same  of  cloves,  and  a  few  slices  of  onion.  Boil  it  half 
an  hour,  and  when  cold,  bottle  it.  If  you  use  black  walnuts, 
remove  the  hulls  in  the  same  way  as  for  pickles. 


Cucumber  Catchup. 

Pare  and  cut  the  cucumbers  into  very  small  square  slices, 
the  size  of  a  grain  of  corn,  and  add  onions  cut  in  the  same 
way,  in  the  proportion  of  one  onion  to  every  half  dozen  cu- 
cumbers. Mix  them  and  salt  them  well,  and  let  them  stand 
ten  or  twelve  hours.  Then  drain  them  well  through  a  sieve 
or  colander.  Season  with  white  or  black  pepper  to  your  taste,' 
and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  the  fruit  and  white  mustard- 
seed,  until  your  jars  are  three-fourths  full.  The  jars  must  be 
small,  as  this  catchup  spoils  by  exposure  to  the  air.  Fill  the 
jars  entirely  to  the  top  with  vinegar.  The  vinegar  must  be 
the  very  best  cider  vinegar.  White  wine  dissolves  the  fruit. 
Some  ^  persons  prefer  the  catchup  with  wine  in  it.  Madeira 
wine  is  the  best,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  to  every  gallon 
of  vinegar.  Seal  up  the  jars  well,  and  every  few  days  ex- 
amine them.  When  you  see  the  cucumbers  rising  above  the 
Vinegar,  open  the  jar  and  press  them  down,  and  fill  up  with 
vinegar,  and  seal  tightly  again.  Keep  them  in  a  cool  place 
during  the  warm  weather. 


Tomato  Catchup. 

Take  a  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  wash  and  cut  them  in  pieces, 
and  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  boil  until  they  are  quite  soft. 
Then  mash  them  well  and  strain  through  a  hair  sieve.  Season 
with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  white  mustard-seed,  and  let 
it  boil  till  half  of  it  is  boiled  away.  Let  the  bottles  in  which 
you  intend  to  pour  it  be  set  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  and 


i       BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  47 

gradually  heated,  and  pour  the  catchup  into  the  bottles  when 
Quite  not,  but  not  boiliug.  Cork  and  seal  well,  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place,  until  the  warm  weather  is  over.  You  may  add 
powdered  cloves  and  black  pepper,  if  you  like  them,  but  they 
will  discolor  the  tomato  juice. 


BREAD,  PASTEY,  PUDDINGS,  Etc. 

Very  fine  Yeast. 

Boil  five  or  six  pared  potatoes  ;  when  soft,  mash  them  in  the 
boiling  water  over  the  fire,  put  in  a  half  a  teacupful  of  dried 
hops,  and  let  them  boil  ten  minutes  (not  longer),  and  then 
strain  through  a  colander.  Put  in  a  little  salt  and  stir  it  well ; 
thin  it  with  milk-warm  water  until  of  the  consistency  of  thin 
waffle  batter.  When  lukewarm,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  liquid 
yeast.  Set  it  near  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  or  in  a  tolerably 
warm  place,  to  rise,  and  in  twelve  'or  fourteen  hours  it  will  be 
light.  If  not,  put  in  a  little  more  yeast.  If  the  weather  is 
warm,  it  will  not  require  to  be  placed  near  the  stove.  If  you 
wish  dry  yeast,  rub  it  in  sifted  corn  meal  until  it  is  a  dry 
dough,  and  spread  thin  on  dishes  or  waiters,  to  dry  in  the  air, 
but  not  in  the  sun.  In  winter  it  can  be  set  near  the  back  part 
of  the  stove,  but  not  in  too  warm  a  place,  or  it  will  not  rise. 
If  you  wish  liquid  yeast,  pour  it  into  a  stone  jug,  and  cork 
tightly.  When  3^011  strain  the  hop-water  over  the  flour,  set 
your  bucket  containing  the  flour  beside  the  stove  or  fire,  with 
the  colander  over  it,  and  let  the  pot  containing  the  hop-water 
and  potatoes  remain  over  the  fire,  whilst  you  are  dipping  out 
the  water  and  hops  and  potatoes,  so  that  the  flour  will  be  well 
scalded.  A  small  quantity  of  hops  is  used,  because  more 
would  darken  the  yeast  and  bread,  as  well  as  spoil  the  sweet- 
ness of  the  bread.  If  your  yeast  should  get  a  little  sour,  add 
a  very  little  soda  to  it  before  putting  it  into  the  bread. 


Potato  Rolls. 

Mash  a  pint  of  Irish  potatoes  very  smoothly,  and  put  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  whilst  they  are  warm,  and  a  little 


48  DIXIE   COOKERY.  ' 

salt.  Add  half  a  teacup  of  yeast,  and  half  a  teacup  of  milk, 
with  a  pint  of  flour.  Make  these  ingredients  into  a  dough, 
and  set  them  to  rise.  In  three  or  four  hours  they  will  be 
ready  to  make  into  rolls,  and  after  being  set  to  rise  a  second 
time,  bake  when  light  in  a  quick  oven  or  stove. 


Bolls  and  Bread  (superior). 

Sift  three  quarts  of  flour.  Take  two  eggs,  one  teacupful 
and  a  half  of  liquid  yeast,  two  pints  of  lukewarm  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  salt,  and  four  handfuls 
of  flour  taken  from  the  measured  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  very 
light,  and  make  these  ingredients  into  a  smooth  batter.  After 
the  batter  is  well  beaten,  divide  the  remaining  flour  into  two 
equal  parts,  and  put  one  part  of  the  flour  into  a  tin  pan  or 
bucket,  pour  in  the  batter,  and  cover  the  batter  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour.  Set  it  in  a  moderately  warm  place,  and 
in  an  hcur  and  a  half,  or  when  light,  turn  the  whole  out  and 
work  it  well.  It  may  require  more  flour  in  kneading  it.  Work 
it  quickly,  but  not  until  it  is  cold,  and  set  it  to  rise  again, 
rubbing  a  little  lard  over  the  top  of  the  dough.  In  three  or 
four  hours  it  will  be  ready  to  knead  over  again,  and  after  it 
has  risen  a  second  time,  it  is  ready  for  baking  in  a  quick 
oven. 

If  you  wish  rolls,  work  in  a  spoonful  of  lard  during  the  last 
kneading,  and  mould  the  dough  into  small  cakes.  Do  not 
keep  the  dough  too  warm,  and  it  will  be  more  flaky. 

If  you  wish  a  smaller  loaf  of  bread,  use  only  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  water  in  making  up  the  batter,  but  do  not  diminish 
the  other  ingredients. 


Milk  Biscuit 

Take  one  pound  of  flour,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  one  half  a  pint  of  new 
milk.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  put  in  the  yeast  and  some 
salt,  and  work  into  the  stiff  paste.  When  light,  knead  it  well, 
roll  it  out  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  with  a  tumbler,  prick  them 
with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

If  butter  is  not  abundant,  you  may  take  an  eighth  of  a 
pound  of  lard,  and  the  other  butter. 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  49 


Plain  Biscuit. 

One  pint  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  a  little  salt, 
with  water  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Work  it  long  and 
well  with  the  hands.  On  this  depends  the  lightness  and  ex- 
cellence of  the  biscuit.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Crackers. 

Mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  three-fourths 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  with  one  quart  of  flour,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  goose-egg.  Make  these  ingredients 
into  a  stiff  dough  with  cold  water,  and  beat  and  work  the 
dough  well.     Roll  it  out,  and  cut  into  cakes  with  a  tumbler. 


Flour  Muffins. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  teacup  of  home-made 
yeast,  a  few  grated  bread-crumbs,  and  one  quart  of  flour. 
Beat  them  into  a  smooth  batter,  and  let  them  stand  three  or 
four  hours  to  rise.  Bake  them  in  rings  which  must  be  well 
buttered,  and  split  and  butter  before  sending  to  table. 


Rice  and  Flour  Muffins. 

Half  a  teacup  of  flour,  a  teacup  of  bursted  rice,  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  milk,  and  three  eggs.  The  batter  must  be  as  thin 
as  for  pancakes.     Bake  with  a  quick  heat. 


Egg  Muffins. 

Four  eggs  beaten  light,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  and'a 
pint  of  flour.  Beat  well,  and  bake  in  small  pans  previously 
buttered.  Bake  with  a  quick  heat.  This  quantity  is  sufficient 
for  five  or  six  persons. 


50  *  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Rice-Corn  Muffins, 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  with  half  a  teacup  of 
corn  meal,  a  teacup  of  bursted  rice,  and  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  milk,  with  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  together,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Very  fine  Corn  Muffins. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  into  a  pint  of  sifted  corn  meal, 
and  pour  over  these  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  it  until  it  is  lukewarm,  and  then  put  in  six  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  a  little  salt.     Bake  in  small  pans  well  greased. 


St.  Charles  Bread. 

One  quart  of  meal,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  or 
lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
buttermilk.  If  sweet  milk  is  used,  put  a  little  of  it  in  a  tea- 
cup, with  some  vinegar,  and  drop  the  soda  into  it,  and  pour 
into  the  remainder  of  the  milk  while  it  is  effervescing. 


Light  Corn  Bread.  - 

Take  two  quarts  of  corn  meal,  and  pour  boiling  water  on 
one-half  of  it.  Mix  up  the  rest  with  cold  water,  and  when  it 
is  all  worked  together  and  lukewarm,  put  in  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  yeast,  and  one  of  salt.  Work  it  well,  and  set  it  to 
rise  in  a  wooden  bowl.  When  it  begins  to  open  on  top,  grease 
the  oven,  and  put  it  to  bake.  Bake  slowly  for  some  hours, 
until  well  browned. 


Corn  Meal  or  Flour  Crisp. 

*  One  pint  of  meal  or  flour  mixed  with  warm  water  and  a  lit- 
tle salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  .lard.  Make  these  ingredients 
into  a  soft  dough,  and  bake  on  a  journey-cake  board  before  a 
hot  fire,  until  it  is  of  a  fine  brown  on  each  side.  After  it  is 
done,  take  it  up,  cut  it  open,  and  remove  the  soft  part  entirely, 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  51 

so  as  to  leave  the  thin  crusts,  which  put  down  before  the  fire 
again,  and  burn  until  perfectly  crisp,  without  scorching. 


Sally  Lunn  (very  fine) . 

Three  eggs  beaten  light,  one  pint  of  milk  warmed,  half  a 
teacup  of  butter  melted,  half  a  teacupful  of  yeast,  and  two 
pints  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt.  Beat 
well,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked, 
and  when  light,  bake  with  a  quick  heat.  You  can  add  to  this 
a  teacup  of  sugar,  if  desired. 


A  Virginia  Sally  Lunn. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  six  eggs,  four  ounces  of  butter,  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  yeast,  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Beat  all  these  in- 
gredients together,  pour  into  the  buttered  mould  in  which  it  is 
to  be  baked,  and  let  it  stand  over  night,  if  you  wish  it  for 
breakfast. 

Brown  Bread. 

Take  two  quarts  of  corn  meal  and  scald  it,  and  when  cool, 
add  one  quart  of  rye  flour,  and  mix  with  cold  water  until  stiff 
enough  to  make  into  a  loaf.  Put  in  a  little  salt,  and  bake  two 
hours  in  a  hot  oven.  This  quantity  will  be  sufficient  for  two 
loaves. 

Carolina  Bolls. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  yeast,  one  quart  of  water,  milk-warm, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  light  sponge,  and  next  morning 
add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter. 
Stir  it  well,  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  it  tolerably  stiff. 
Let  it  stand  one  hour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  after  moulding 
into  small  cakes. 

Velvet  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  quart  of 
milk,  and   eight  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast.    Beat   all  well  to- 


52  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

gether,  and  acid  a  little  salt.  Let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place,  and 
when  ready,  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  beat  it  in, 
and  bake  in  -cakes  on  a  griddle.  Put  in  the  butter  half  an 
hour  before  baking.     Bake  when  light. 

Flannel  Cakes, 

Warm  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  quart  of  milk,  put  in  a 
little  salt,  and  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Then  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Let  it  rise,  and  after  five  hours'  standing,  bake  on  a 
griddle  in  cakes  the  size  of  a  tea-plate.  The  griddle  should 
not  be  greased  after  the  first  baking. 


Light  Bread  Batter  Cakes. 

Soak  slices  of  stale  bread  in  cold  sweet  milk  until  soft,  and 
then  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  mash 
it  well.  "When  lukewarm,  add  wheat  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  yeast, 
and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Let  it  rise  for  four  or  five  hours, 
and  bake  as  flannel  cakes. 


Buckwheat  Cakes'  * 

Take  a  pint  of  milk  and  warm  it,  and  put  in  a  teacupful  of 
buckwheat  flour,  a  little  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  and 
two  beaten  eggs.  Set  it  to  rise,  and  bake  when  light.  Or 
you  may  take  a  pint  of  buckwheat  flour,  a  teacup  of  wheat 
flour,  and  half  a  teacup  of  meal,  and  mix  with  lukewarm 
water,  until  it  is  a  thick  batter.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  yeast, 
and  set  it  to  rise.  After  an  hour,  pour  in  a  little  milk,  until 
of  the  consistency  of  waffle-batter,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours 
in  a  warm  place.  Do  not  grease  the  griddle  but  once.  Serve 
with  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 


Fine   Waffles. 

One  pint   of  sweet  milk,  half  a  teacup   of  buttermilk   or 
clabber,  two  eggs,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  flour,  and  a  piece  of 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  53 

lard  the  size  of  a  guinea  egg,  melted  and  put  in  the  batter. 
Beat  well  for  fifteen  minutes.  Grease  the  waffle  irons,  fill 
them  with  batter,  and  bake  on  a  bed  of  bright  coals,  turning 
the  irons  so  that  both  sides  will  be  browned.  Butter  as  you 
remove  from  the  irons.  If  you  have  no  sweet  milk,  it  will  do 
to  make  them  entirely  with  buttermilk. 

Soaked  Crackers  for  Tea, 

Boil  some  milk  and  pour  over  some  crackers,  put  in  some 
butter  and  salt,  and  cover  close  until  tea  is  ready.  Keep  them 
in  a  warm  place.     Serve  in  a  deep-covered  dish. 


General   Washington's  Breakfast   Cakes. 
N.  B.  —  Received  from  one  of  his  relatives. 

Make  a  thtek  mush  with  corn  meal  and  water,  add  some 
salt  and  a  little  butter,  and  drop  in  little  cakes  half  an  inch 
thick  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Pancakes. 

Take  a  pint  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
milk  enough  to  make  a  very  thin  batter,  and  beat  well,  and 
bake  on  a  greased  griddle,  turning  the  cake  so  that  both  sides 
are  browned  nicely.     Grease  the  griddle  every  few  times. 

Fritters. 

To  one  pint  of  lukewarm  milk,  add  one  pint  and  a  half  of 
flour,  a  little  salt,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Beat  well,  ancj 
fry  in  boiling  lard,  putting  in  a  half  a  teacup  of  batter  to  eac^ 
fritter.  If  the  lard  is  not  boiling  hot,  the  fritters  will  not  be 
light. 

Corn  Gruel  Batter  Cakes. 

To  a  pint  of  thin  gruel,  luke-warm,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
some  salt,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  rice.     Bake  on  a 
greased  griddle. 
5* 


54  DIXIE   COOKERY. 


Corn-Meal  Batter  Cakes. 

Pour  boiling  milk  over  sifted  corn-meal,  and  beat  until  luke- 
warm. Then  add  a  little  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and 
three  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  on  a  griddle.  The  milk  and 
meal  must  be  in  such  proportion  as  will  make  a  thin  batter, 
say  a  pint  of  meal  to  a  quart  of  boiling  milk. 


Corn-Meal  Wafers. 

Take  a  little  salt  and  equal  portions  of  corn  meal  and  flour, 
and  mix  with  water  or  milk  into  a  stiff  dough.  Put  the  lump 
of  dough  into  a  pan,  with  sweet  milk  enough  to  cover  it,  and 
work  the  dough  in  the  milk  until  it  becomes  as  thick  as  very 
thick  cream.   Bake  in  wafer  irons.    They  bake  very  quickly. 


Plain  Wafers. 

Take  sifted  flour  and  meal  in  equal  quantities,  with  milk, 
ancWbeat  into  a  smooth  and  very  thin  batter  of  the  consistency 
of  cream.  Add  a  little  salt,  and  bake  in  wafer  irons  until  of 
a  fine  brown.     They  are  a  nice  tea-wafer. 

Another  plain  wafer  is  made  of  very  nice  biscuit  dough, 
rolled  as  thin  as  possible,  and  baked  in  wafer  irons  until  of 
a  light  straw  color. 

Milk  Toast. 

Toast  some  slices  of  bread  until  of  a  light  straw  color. 
Boil  a  teacup  of  milk  and  a  spoonful  of  butter,  with  a  little 
salt,  and  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  pour  over  the  toast. 
IF  cream  is  abundant  make  it  half  cream. 


Egg  Toast. 

Soak  some  slices  of  stale  bread  in  cream  or  milk,  but  not 
long  enough  to  become  soft,  then  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  with 
a  little  salt,  and  fry  a  light  brown  with  a  little  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing pan.    Serve  very  hot  for  breakfast. 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  55 


Butter  Toast. 

Have  the  slices  of  bread  toasted  a  light  straw  color,  and 
pour  melted  butter  over  it,  ai^d  serve  on  a  hot  water-dish.  If 
the  toast  is  desired  less  rich,  put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water  in 
the  butter. 

Busk. 

Beat  three  eggs  separately  until  they  are  light.  Take  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of  lard,  half 
a  pint  of  new  milk,  and  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast.  Melt 
the  lard  in  the  milk,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  when  lukewarm, 
add  the  yeast,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff  batter  ; 
put  in  the  eggs  and  set  to  rise.  When  light,  add  more  flour, 
and  work  them  well,  but  don't  have  them  too  stiff.  Set  to  rise 
again,  and  bake  when  light  in  a  quick  oven. 


Puff  Paste. 

Sift  a  pound  of  flour,  and  take  out  a  quarter  of  a  pound  for 
rolling.  Divide  a  pound  of  butter  or  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  lard  into  four  equal  parts.  Put  one  part  of  the  shortening 
into  the  flour,  and  with  a  little  water,  make  it  into  a  stiff 
dough.  Roll  it  out,  and  flake  it  with  part  of  the  shortening. 
Fold  over  the  sheet  of  paste,  roll  it  out  again,  and  spread  over 
another  portion  of  butter  or  lard.  Roll  and  fold  thus  three 
times.  Handle  it  as  little  as  possible,  and  put  in  a  cold  place 
until  ready  for  use.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  four  pies. 
This  paste  must  be  baked  with  a  quick  heat,  say  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.  Or  you  may  take  two  pounds  and  a  half  of 
flour,  two  pounds  of  butter,  one  pint  of  water,  with  two  eggs 
broken  in  the  water. 

Mince  Pies. 

Boil  four  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  chop  it  fine.  Pick  and 
chop  three  pounds  of  suet,  wash  two  pounds  of  currants,  and 
one  of  raisins,  grate  the  peel  of  two  lemons  and  add  the  juice, 
an  ounce  of  sliced  citron,  and  twelve  large  apples  chopped 
fine.     Mix  these  ingredients  with  three  pounds  of  sugar,  half 


56  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

a  pint  of  wine,  and  the  same  of  brandy,  and  a  little  sweet 
cider,  and  nutmeg  and  mace  to  your  taste.  Bake  this  mince- 
meat in  puff  paste,  with  a  lid  of  paste  on  top. 


Mince  Pies  without  Meat. 

Take  four  pounds  of  suet,  eight  pounds  of  apples,  four  nut- 
megs, eight  pounds  of  raisins,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  half  a- 
pound  of  sliced  citron,  two  quarts  of  wine,  two  quarts  of  bran- 
dy, half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  the  same  of  mace,  an  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  four  large  oranges. 
If  it  gets  too  dry,  add  more  brandy.  It  will  keep  from  No- 
vember till  May. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

Peel  the  young  stalks,  cut  them  in  small  pieces,  and  stew 
till  very  soft,  with  a  very  little  water.  Mash  it  into  a  marma- 
lade, sweeten  with  sugar,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Bake  a  lower 
crust  and  fill  with  the  stewed  rhubarb.  They  are  not  nice 
after  the  first  day. 


Apple  and  Peach  Pie. 

If  made  of  early  green  apples,  they  must  be  stewed  with  a 
little  water,  sweetened  with  sugar,  and  nutmeg  grated  over 
the  top.     Bake  without  a  lid  of  paste. 

Winter  apples  are  pared,  cored,  sliced  thin,  and  put  into  a 
dish  lined  with  paste,  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  little  sugar,  and  very  little  water.  Bake  with  a 
cover  of  paste.  Peaches  are  pared  and  sliced,  sugareu,  and 
put  into  a  pie-plate  lined  with  crust,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
water.     Cover  with  paste. 


Apple  Pies  without  Apples  {very  good) . 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  water,  one  cup  of  bread- 
crumbs, one  egg  beaten  light,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  tartaric 
acid.  Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  warm  water  and  rub  them 
smooth,  and  put  in  the  other  ingredients,  and  season  with 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  57 

lemon  or  nutmeg  to  jouy  taste,  and  bake  with  a  crost  above, 
as  an  apple-pie. 


jSiveet  Potato  Pie. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  skin  and  slice  them,  and  put  into  a  deep 
dish  with  a  few  sliced  apples.  Fill  the  dish  with  apples  and 
potatoes,  and  pour  over  some  wine,  sugar,  butter,  nutmeg,  and 
a  little  water.     Bake  with  a  crust. 


Icing  for  Pies. 

Just  before  they  are  quite  done,  wash  over  the  top  of  the  pie 
with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  on  a  feather,  and  sift  white 
sugar  finely  powdered  over  the  egg.  Or  use  only  plain  water, 
and  sift  over  white  sugar.  Or  you  may  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  (melted) 
into  it,  and  wash  over  the  tops  of  the  pies  with  it,  sifting  white 
sugar  powdered  over  it. 


Apple  Meringues. 

Fill  a  small,  deep  dish  half  full  of  stewed  apples,  or  any 
preserved  acid  fruit  (peaches  are  very  nice) ,  and  pour  over 
an  icing  of  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  six  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  white  sugar.  Bake  slowly  in  an  oven  from  one  to  two 
hours.  It  can  be  eaten  cold  or  hot.  If  the  apple  is  stewed, 
only  let  it  remain  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  cook  and  brown 
the  icing  nicely. 

Stewed  and  Baked  Apples. 

Pare  and  core  some  firm  acid  apples.  Stick  cloves  in  them  ; 
fill  the  vacancy  left  by  the  core  with  sugar,  and  some  thin 
strips  of  lemon-peel,  if  you  have  them,  and  put  into  a  baking- 
pan,  with  just  water  enough  to  keep  them  from  burning.  Bake 
them  until  they  are  tender,  but  not  until  they  break.  When 
they  are  cold,  eat  them  with  whipped  cream  heaped  over  them 
for  dinner,  or  plain  cream  for  tea. 


58  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

To  stew  apples,  pare  and  core  them,  and  leave  them  whole. 
Make  a  syrup  of  loaf-sugar  and  wMer,  boil  and  skim  it ;  and 
when  it  has  boiled  twenty  minutes,  drop  in  the  apples  and 
some  slices  of  lemon,  carefully  removing  the  lemon-seed,  or 
some  strips  of  lemon-peel  cut  thin.  If  the  apples  are  not 
very  firm,  you  can  take  them  up  on  dishes  to  cool,  after  they 
have  been  in  the  syrup  a  few  minutes,  and  then  return  them  to 
the  syrup,  and  cook  until  tender.  They  are  very  nice,  and 
may  be  prepared  the  day  before  they  are  to  be  served. 


An  Apple  Charlotte. 

Take  slices  of  light  bread,  and  dip  them  in  bailing  milk,  and 
lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  your  baking-dish.  Pare  and  chop 
your  apples  into  fine  pieces.  Then  put  in  alternate  layers  of 
apples  and  batter,  sugar  and  spices,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Put 
bread-crumbs,  goaked  in  boiling  milk,  over  the  top,  and  bake 
from  three  to  four  hours,  until  it  is  a  perfect  jelly. 

It  is  usually  served  hot  for  dinner,  but  may  be  eaten  cold. 


Apple  Float. 

Take  a  quart  of  stewed  apples,  mash  them  fine,  and  press 
them  through  a  sieve,  and  season  with  loaf-sugar  and  flour, 
with  lemon.  Stir  into  the  apples  the  well-beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs,  and  pile  up  the  apple  thus  prepared  on  a  glass  bowl  half 
filled  with  rich  cream  and  milk.     Serve  in  saucers. 


Floating  Island. 

The.  well-beaten  whites  of  five  eggs,  richly  flavored  with  cur- 
rant or  any  acid  jelly,  and  beaten  well.  Pour  rich  milk,  or 
milk  and  cream,  into  a  glass  bowl  until  it  is  half  full,  and  put 
the  float  on  the  top.  Allow  six  eggs  to  six  persons.  Serve 
in  saucers. 

Trifle. 

Put  some  slices  of  sponge-cake  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  glass 
dish,  spread  over  them  some  acid  jelly  and  blanched  almonds, 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  59 

cut  in  halves,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  all,  and  pile 
whipped  cream  up  handsomely  on  the  top. 


Charlotte  Busse. 

One  pint  of  milk,  twelve  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a 
pint  of  rich  cream,  and  one  pint  of  jelly.  Make  a  custard  of 
the  milk,  eggs,  sugar,  and  flour,  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Dis- 
solve the  jelly  and  add  it  to  the  custard,  and  stir  the  whole 
until  it  is  cold,  and  about  as  thick  as  the  thickest  molasses. 
Then  beat  in  the  cream,  which  has  been  previously  whipped, 
and  pour  into  moulds  lined  with  sponge-cake.  If  the  weather 
is  warm,  set  it  on  ice,  and  let  it  remain  nearly  an  hour,  and 
turn  out  on  a  china  dish.  Ice  the  whole  with  icing,  prepared 
as  for  cake,  and  when  it  is  dry,  put  some  icing  in  a  paper  horn 
and  run  over  it  in  fanciful  forms.  Set  it  in  a  refrigerator  un- 
til wanted.  Omit  the  icing  if  you  choose.  Instead  of  a  mould, 
you  may  take  a  large,  round  sponge-cake,  turn  it  bottom  up- 
wards, and  cut  off  a  slice  an  inch  thick.  Then  remove  the 
whole  of  the  inside,  leaving  the  shell  of  the  cake  an  inch  thick. 
Pour  the  mixture  in  this,  put  on  the  bottom  slice,  and  set  on 
ice. 

Flummery. 

Half  an  hour  before  dinner,  lay  some  slices  of  sponge-cake 
or  macaroons  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  bowl,  and  pour  over 
them  some  white  wine  until  they  are  quite  moist ;  make  a  rich 
custard,  and  when  cool,  pour  over  the  cake.  Whisk  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pile  up  on  the  custard.     Serve  in  saucers. 


Blanc  Mange. 

Blanch  and  pound  one  pound  of  almonds,  and  put  them,  with 
an  ounce  of  isinglass  and  a  little  sugar,  into  a  quart  of  milk. 
"When  it  boils,  add  a  quart  of  cream,  and  boil  all  together,  and 
strain  through  a  muslin  cloth.  When  strained,  season  with 
orange-flower  or  rose-water  ;  let  it  stand  a  little,  and  pour  into 
the  mould.  The  mould  must  have  been  previously  scalded, 
and  set  in  cold  water  until  ready  for  the  blanc  mange.      The 


60  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

shred  isinglass  is  best,  because  it  does  not  require  dissolving 
beforehand.     The  almonds  are  weighed  in  the  shell. 


Arrowroot  Blanc  Mange. 


Take  one  quart  of  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot, 
two  of  peach-water,  for  flavoring,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Mix  the  arrowroot  with  a  portion  of  the  milk,  and 
boil  the  remainder  with  the  sugar.  Then  pour  in  the  arrow- 
root mixed  with  the  milk,  and  stir  constantly  until  thick  enough 
to  pour  into  moulds,  which  should  be  wet  with  cream.  Allow 
the  arrowroot  mixed  with  the  milk  to  stand  some  time  before 
stirring  in  the  boiling  milk,  so  that  the  specks  will  have  time 
to  rise  and  be  removed.  Serve  out  in  saucers,  and  pour  thick 
cream  over.  It  can  also  be  made  with  ground  rice  in  the  same 
proportions. 

Omelette  Souffle. 

Take  eight  eggs,  and  beat  the  j^olks  and  whites  separately 
light ;  stir  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  into 
the  yolks  and  beat  well,  and  stir  in  the  whites  and  mix  well. 
Flavor  with  lemon,  and  pour  into  a  warm  buttered  dish,  and 
set  in  a  warm  Dutch  oven,  with  a  hot  lid,  for  five  minutes. 
Serve  to  table  immediately,  or  it  will  be  spoiled.  Begin  to 
make  it  as  the  company  commence  their  dinner,  and  serve 
quickly  in  small  saucers. 


Arrowroot  Custard,  baked  in  Cups. 

To  two  quarts  of  milk  take  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  Jfeg:  eggs, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot.  Fill  the  cups,  pour  wa- 
ter into  an  oven  or  stove-pan,  and  set  them  in,  and  bake  until 
thick  and  slightly  browned. 

Cold  Custard. 

Sweeten  half  a  gallon  of  lukewarm  milk ;  put  into  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  rennet  wine,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour  in  a 
refrigerator,  or  dairy,  until  very  cold.      Serve   at  dinner  in 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  61 

saucers,  and  pour  cream  over  it.     Make  it  in  a  glass  dish,  and 
grate  nutmeg  over  it. 


Boiled  Custard  (very  fine). 

Take  twelve  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  twelve  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  white  sugar  powdered.  Beat  half  of  the  sugar  with 
the  yolks,  and  half  with  the  whites.  Boil  cinnamon  or  lemon- 
paring  in  the  milk,  and  make  a  custard  with  it,  the  yolks,  and 
sugar.  Fill  saucers  two-thirds  full  with  the  custard,  putting 
a  little  preserved  apple,  or  pine-apple  marmalade,  into  the  bot- 
tom of  each  saucer.  Then  wet  a  tablespoon  in  cold  water, 
and  lay  the  whites  in  spoonfuls  on  the  custard,  three  spoon- 
fuls on  each  saucer,  and  bake  with  a  hot  lid  until  the  top  is 
slightly  brown.  The  oven  in  which  you  set  the  saucers  must 
be  cold. 

Wine  Custard. 

Beat  eight  eggs  very  light,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  three. 
Take  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  wine,  and  beat 
with  the  eggs  for  a  few  minutes.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  hot 
kettle,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils.  Then  pour  the  mix- 
ture out,  and  beat  until  cold.  Flavor  with  lemon,  and  grate 
nutmeg  over.  Serve  in  glasses.  The  wine  must  be  a  light 
color,  and  the  kettle  not  very  hot.  This  quantity  is  sufficient 
for  six  persons. 


Plain  Boiled  Custard. 

Make  a  custard  of  six  or  eight  yolks  of  eggs,  to  a  quart  of 
milk  ;  sweeten  with  sugar  to  the  taste,  and  flavor  with  vanilla 
or  lemon.  Boil  the  milk  and  flavoring  together,  take  off  the 
fire,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  and  sugar  ;  then  stir  constantly,  and 
let  it  simmer,  but  not  boil,  until  it  thickens,  when  remove 
from  the  fire.  Serve  with  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten,  and  laid 
on  top  of  the  bowl  or  cups,  and  nutmeg  grated  on  them. 

Or  }rou  may  mix  the  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  flavoring  to- 
gether, and  pour  them  into  a  pitcher,  and  set  it  into  a  kettle 
or  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  till  it  is  cooked.  It  will  not 
be  so  apt  to  curdle,  made  in  this  way. 


62  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

If  you  like  raisins,  stone  and  cut  a  teacupful,  and  boil  in 
the  milk  instead  of  the  flavoring. 


Strawberry  Whips. 

Put  three  wineglassfuls  of  the  juice  to  ten  ounces  of  white 
sugar ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
cream.  Froth  the  cream  in  a  syllabub-churn,  and  remove  the 
froth  as  it  rises,  and  put  into  glasses. 


Wliips, 

One  pint  of  thick  cream,  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  frothed  with  a  syllabub- 
churn.  Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  with 
the  frothed  syllabub.  Put  apple  or  lemon  jelly  in  the  bottom 
of  your  glasses,  and  put  the  frothed  whips  over  it. 


Syllabub. 

One  quart  of  cream,  one  gill  of  wine,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons,  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  sugar  to  your  taste. 
Froth  these  ingredients  in  a  syllabub-churn,  and  put  into 
glasses. 

Ambrosia. 

Grate  the  white  part  of  the  cocoanut,  sweeten  with  a  little 
sugar,  and  place  in  a  glass  bowl,  in  alternate  layers  with  pulped 
oranges,  having  a  layer  of  cocoanut  on  top.  Serve  in  ice- 
cream plates  or  saucers. 


Plum  Pudding. 

Pour  to  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
grated  bread-crumbs  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter.  Let  it 
stand  until  lukewarm,  when  it  must  be  beaten  well,  and  half 
a  pound  of  butter,  and  the  same  quantity  of  sugar  stirred 
into  it.     Add  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of  raisins, 


DIXIE   COOKERY.  63 

stoned,  cut,  and  floured,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  picked 
and  dried,  and  dredged  with  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
citron,  sliced  and  floured,  and  some  brandy,  and  nutmeg  grated. 
Beat  all  well  together,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  mould  or  dish, 
and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours. 

Make  a  sauce  of  three  beaten  eggs,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  gill 
of  milk  seasoned  with  lemon.  Stir  over  the  lire  until  it  be- 
comes as  thick  as  thin  cream,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  add 
two  wineglasses  of  brandy.     Serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 

This  pudding  may  be  boiled.  If  you  boil  in  a  cloth,  scald 
and  flour  the  pudding-cloth  and  form  the  shape  by  laying  it  into 
a  round-bottomed  bowl  whilst  the  mixture  is  being  put  in ; 
leave  room  for  it  to  swell,  and  tie  up  very  tightly.  Drop  into 
boiling  water,  of  which  there  must  be  enough  to  cover  the 
pudding  well,  and  replenish  from  the  teakettle  as  it  evaporates. 
Turn  the  pudding  frequently.  When  the  pudding  is  done,  it 
should  be  dipped  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  to  prevent  it  adher- 
ing to  the  cloth. 


'o 


Augusta  Pudding. 

Nine  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  ten  eggs,  and  one  quart  of  milk. 
Boil  the  milk,  and  pour  over  the  flour,  and  let  it  stand  till  it 
is  cool,  and  then  put  in  the  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  sep- 
arately and  very  light.  Bake  it  in  a  tin  mould  or  dish,  and  in 
a  quick  oven.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 


Sponge-Cake  Pudding. 

Nine  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  twelve  of  sugar,  and  twelve 
eggs.     Serve  with  cream,  or  wine  sauce. 


A  Baked  Rice  Pudding. 

To  three  pints  of  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  teacup  of  rice  (be- 
fore it  is  cooked),  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  Walnut, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  little  lemon  or  orange- 
peel.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  till  it  is  done. 


C4  BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC. 


Balloon  Puddings. 

Mix  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  and 
the  yolks  of  nine  eggs,  and  beat  into  a  smooth  batter.  Then 
add  the  whites,  which  must  be  beaten  separately,  and  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Grease  cups  or  small 
bowls,  and  pour  in  the  batter,  and  bake  them  half  an  hour, 
with  some  water  poured  into  the  oven  around  the  bowls.  Serve 
with  a  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar  beaten  together,  and  floured 
with  nutmeg,  and  wine  and  currant  jelly  instead  of  the  wine. 


A  Baked  Apple  or  Quince  Pudding. ' 

Pare  and  core  the  fruit,  and  put  into  an  oven  or  pan,  with  a 
little  water  over  it,  until  it  is  slightly  cooked.  Then  make  a 
custard  of  five  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk  and  sugar,  and  nutmeg 
to  your  taste.  Put  the  fruit  into  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  cus- 
tard over,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 


A  Simple  Bread  Pudding. 

Fill  a  deep  dish  with  slices  of  sponge  cake,  or  buttered 
light  bread,  and  sprinkle  raisins,  grated  nutmeg,  and  sugar  on 
each  slice.  Make  a  custard  of  six  eggs,  a  teacup  of  sugar, 
and  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  pour  over  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Bake  a  short  time,  —  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  if  it  is  a  quick 
oven.    Dry  acid  preserves  may  be  substituted  for  the  raisins. 


Dried  Fruit  Pudding. 

Boil  the  fruit  until  nearly  done,  and  chop  it  fine.  Save  a 
teacupful  of  the  juice  for  sauce.  Make  a  batter  of  light  bread 
soaked  soft  in  water  or  milk,  put  the  fruit  into  it  and  stir  well, 
and  pour  into  a  bag  and  boil  until  done. 

Make  a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  sugar,  and  a  little  flour, 
with  enough  of  the  apple-juice  to  flavor  it  richly,  and  nutmeg 
and  spice  to  your  taste. 


DIXIE   COOKERY.  65 


Cream  Pudding. 

Beat  six  eggs  well,  and  stir  into  them  a  pint  of  flour,  a  pint 
of  milk,  a  little  salt,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  three 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Just  before  baking,  stir  in  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish. 


Corn-Meal  Pudding  without  Eggs. 

Take  seven  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  meal,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  (or  one  of  butter 
and  one  of  lard),  one  teacupful  of  molasses,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  ginger  or  cinnamon,  and  pour  into  this  mixture  a  quart 
of  boiling  milk.  Mix  it  well,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  dish. 
Just  as  you  set  it  into  the  oven,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  cold 
"water,  which  will  have  the  same  effect  as  eggs.  Bake  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour. 


Eve's  Pudding. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  little  salt,  mixed  with  the 
same  quantity  of  pared  and  chopped  apples.  Beat  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  stir  in  half 
a  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins  dredged  with 
flour,  a  little  nutmeg,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  put  in  the  whites 
cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  just  before  pouring  into  a  buttered  dish.  It 
will  require  two  hours  to  bake. 

Serve  with  the*  same  sauce  as  plum-pudding. 


Tapioca  Pudding. 

Pour  a  quart  of  warm  milk  over  eight  tablespoonfuls  of 
tapioca  that  has  been  previously  washed  through  several 
waters.  When  it  is  soft,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  five  well-beaten  eggs,  sugar,  wine,  and  spice  to  jomv 
taste.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish. 
6* 


66  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Stale  Bread  Pudding. 

Tie  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  an  hour,  and 
serve  with  any  kind  of  liquid  pudding-sauce. 

This  is  very  simple,  and  suited  to  delicate  persons. 


Sunderland  Pudding  {very  fine). 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well,  and  mix  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  nutmeg,  and  stir  in  the  whites  after  the  batter  is 
well  beaten,  and  pour  into  cups  to  bake.  They  will  bake  in 
half  an  hour. 

Serve  with  any  liquid  sauce. 


Montgomery  Pudding. 

Take  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake,  and  put  into  a  deep  dish 
until  it  is  half  full.  Grate  over  the  cake  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
squeeze  the  juice  into  the  dish,  and  put  in  wine  or  brandy 
enough  to  moisten  the  cake  well.  Then  make  a  custard,  with 
milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  and  fill  the  dish,  and  set  into  a  moderate 
oven  and  bake  a  light  brown.  When  it  is  done  and  cold,  make 
an  icing  of  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar,  as  for  cake,  and  spread 
over  the  top  of  the  pudding  thickly,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven. 
Serve  cold. 

Quaking  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  suet,  one  pound  of  raisins,  a  pint  of  milk,  six 
eggs,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  thick  batter.  Boil  it 
for  three  hours. 

Sauce  for  Puddings. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
one  wineglassful  of  wine,  melted  together,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  mixed  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  poured  in.  Season 
with  nutmeg. 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  67 


Cream  Sauce. 

Boir  half  a  pint  of  cream,  thicken  it  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  and  put  in  a  large  lump  of  butter.  Sweeten  to  your 
taste,  and  when  cold  add  wine  or  brandy. 

Brandy  Sauce. 

Boil  some  lemon  rinds  and  a  gill  .of  milk  together  until  the 
milk  is  flavored,  then  stir  in  three  beaten  eggs,  and  sweeten 
with  sugar  to  your  taste.  Stir  constantly  until  it  is  as  thick 
as  thin  cream,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  then  stir  in  two  wine- 
glassfuls  of  brandy. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Take  of  butter  and  sugar  each  half  a  pound,  and  beat 
them  to  a  cream  ;  add  five  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  wineglass- 
ful  of  brandy,  half  a  wineglassful  of  Madeira  wine,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon.     Pour  in  paste  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Orange  pudding  made  in  the  same  way,  using  a  pulped 
orange  and  the  grated  skin,  instead  of  a  lemon. 


Irish  Potato   Pudding. 

One  pound  of  mashed  potatoes,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  seven  eggs 
beaten  light,  a  gill  of  brandy  and  one  of  rose-water.  Beat 
the  butter  and  sugar  together,  and  add  the  other  ingredients, 
and  whites  last  of  all.     Bake  in  paste. 


Apple  Pudding  {very  fine). 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  the  same  quantity  of  sugar, 
beaten  together  to  a  cream.  Then  put  in  five  eggs  beaten 
light,  and  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  stewed  or  grated  apples, 
with  half  a  wineglassful  of  wine,  and  the  same  of  brandy, 
a  teaspoonful  of  spice  and  the  same  quantity  of  rose-water, 


68  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

and  lastly  the  juice  and  rind  of  an  orange.    Bake  half  an 
hour  in  paste. 


Marlborough  Pudding. 

Beat  together  six  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  same  quantity  of 
butter,  to  a  cream  ;  then  add  six  large  apples  grated  or  stewed, 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water,  a  little  mace,  and  two  lemons, 
grating  the  rind  and  squeezing  in  the  juice.  Bake  in  a  rich 
paste. 


DawpMnes, 

Line  a  pudding-dish  with  puff-paste,  and  put  into  it  a  thin 
layer  of  sweetmeats  or  stewed  apples.  Boil  a  custard,  of  a 
pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one 
of  flour,  till  it  thickens  ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  over  the 
fruit.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  it  is  cold,  make  ah 
icing  of  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar,  and  pour  over  the  top,  and 
set  into  oven  of  a  moderate  heat  to  dry. 


Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Stir  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  to  a  cream.  Take  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  six,  and  when  beaten  separately  and  light,  add 
them  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  then  put  in  one  pound  of 
grated  cocoanut.  Lastly  put  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rose- 
water,  four  of  cream,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Bake  in 
puff-paste,  and  sift  loaf-sugar  over  after  it  comes  from  the 
oven. 


Imitation   Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Take  twelve  eggs  beaten  separately  and  light,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  corn-meal 
enough  to  make  the  batter  of  the  consistency  of  pudding- 
batter.     Bake  as  cocoanut  pudding. 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,'  ETC.  69 


Corn-Meal  Pudding  in  Paste. 


Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well ;  add  to  them  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  butter  which  has  been  creamed,  the  rind  of  one 
lemon  and  juice  of  two,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  your  taste,  and 
two  pounds  of  mush  moderately  warm.  Bake  in  paste  as 
lemon  pudding. 

It  is  very  nice  with  preserves  on  the  paste. 


Orange  Pudding. 

Take  the  skins  of  three  oranges  and  boil  them,  changing 
the  water  twice.  Pound  them  in  a  mortar  until  very  fine. 
Beat  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  with  the 
same  quantity  of  white  sugar,  eight  yolks  of  eggs  and  one 
whole  egg  beaten  light,  the  juice  and  pounded  rinds  of  the 
oranges,  brandy  knd  wine  to  your  taste,  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  grated  bread.  Beat  all  these  well  together,  and  bake 
in  puff-paste. 

Another  Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Cream  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  stir  into  it  the 
same  quantity  of  sugar.  Add  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs 
beaten  light,  and  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  with  rose-water 
and  brandy  to  your  taste,  and  a  little  grated  bread. 


Lemon   Tarts. 

Beat  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  the  same  of 
sugar  together  until  light,  then  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of 
twelve  eggs,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  the  grated  rinds  of 
three,  and  bake  in  puff-paste. 


Cottage  Potato  Pudding. 

Boil  and  mash  four  pounds  of  potatoes,  beat  them  smooth 
with  a  gill  of  milk,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same 
of  sugar,  and  five  eggs.    Bake  in  puff-paste. 


70  DIXIE  COOKERY. 


Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 


Take  two  pounds  of  boiled  potatoes  and  rub  through  a  col- 
ander. Beat  six  eggs  and  mix  them  with  the  potatoes,  and 
add  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
cream,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon,  brandy  and  nutmeg  to 
your  taste,  and  bake  in  paste. 


Transparent  Pudding. 


. 


Beat  eight  eggs  very  light,  stir  into  them  half  a  pound  of 
fine  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  some  flavoring,  and 
put  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire  and  stir  till  it  thickens  ;  then  cool 
and  pour  into  paste,  and  bake  with  a  slow  heat  for  half  an 
hour. 

/ 

Citron  Pudding. 

For  every  egg  take  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  for  one 
dozen  of  eggs  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  goose-egg. 
Cream  the  butter  and  beat  all  together  until  very  light.  Slice 
the  citron,  and  add  to  the  mixture  in  the  proportion  of 
half  a  pound  to  a  dozen  of  eggs  ;  or  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
citron,  if  you  omit  the  whites  of  eggs,  as  you  may  do.  Bake 
in  paste. 

Another  Citron  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
citron,  and  twelve  eggs.  Beat  well  together,  and  bake  in 
paste. 

Molasses  Custard. 

To  five  eggs  beaten  light,  take  two  tumblers  of  molasses, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  one  grated  nutmeg.  Beat 
all  well  together.  This  quantity  will  make  two  custards. 
Bake  in  rich  paste. 


BREAD,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS,    ETC.  71 


Hungary  Padding. 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  flour,  a  teacupful  of  milk,  the  same 
quantity  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  the  same  of  butter. 
Bake  in  paste. 

Moultrie  Pudding. 

Take  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  and  beat 
well  with  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pound  of  butter. 
Bake  in  paste  on  which  is  laid  any  kind  of  preserves  you  like. 
This  is  a  rich  and  favorite  dessert. 


Ground  Rice  Pudding. 

Mix  six  ounces  of  rice-flour  with  a  pint  of  milk  until  it  is 
a  smooth  batter.  Put  a  pint  of  milk  over  the  fire,  and  when 
it  has  boiled,  stir  into  it  the  rice  batter,  and  six  ounces  of 
butter.  Boil  it  a  few  minutes  until  well  mixed,  and  stir  it 
constantly.  Remove  it  from  the  fire  and  put  in  six  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  it  is  lukewarm,  add  six 
eggs  beaten  light,  a  little  wine,  some  rose-water,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  or  some  essence  of  lemon,  and  let  it 
stand  until  cool  before  you  put  it  into  the  paste  to  bake.  Or 
you  may  bake  it  in  a  buttered  clish  without  paste,  and  grate 
loaf-sugar  on  the  top  when  cooked. 


Another  Rice  Pudding. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  with  a  little  salt,  till  quite  ten- 
der, drain  it  dry,  and  stir  into  it  two  ounces  of  butter.  Beat 
four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  them  a  fourth  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet  rubbed  fine  (or  some 
melted  butter),  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  some  nutmeg  and  some  lemon-rind 
grated.  Mix  these  ingredients  with  the  rice,  fill  a  buttered 
dish  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  warm  oven. 


72  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Corn-Starch  Pudding. 

Stir  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  into  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk,  and  when  quite  thick  take  it  from  the  fire  and  set 
it  aside  to  cool.  Then  mix  with  it  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  eight  eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately and  light,  and  beat  all  well  together.  Season  with 
essence  of  lemon. 


Bread  Pudding. 


Break  the  bread  and  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
and  let  it  stand  till  well  soaked.  Beat  five  eggs  very  light, 
and  add  to  it,  stir  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
a  glass  of  wine,  some  essence  of  lemon,  and  sugar  to  your 
taste.    Bake  it  an  hour. 


Yeast  without  Hops. 

Boil  a  pound  of  flour^a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
and  a  little  salt,  in  two  gallons  of  water,  for  one  hour.  When 
milk-warm,  bottle  and  cork  close,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use 
in  twenty-four  hours. 


French  Rolls  or  Tivist. 

One  quart  of  lukewarm  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tea- 
cupful  of  yeast,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
When  very  light  add  a  beaten  egg  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  knead  in  flour  until  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Let  it 
rise  again,  and  when  very  light  roll  out  and  cut  in  strips  and 
braid  it.    Bake  thirty  minutes  on  buttered  tins. 


Charlotte  Busse. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  eight  eggs  beaten  separately,  a 
pint  of  fresh  milk,  the  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  arid  a  small 
quantity  of  gelatine.  Dissolve  all  together  except  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  stir  and  bring  to  a  boiling  heat,  strain  through  a 


CAKES.  73 

seive,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  wine.  Whip  some  rich  cream, 
and  stir  it  into  the  mixture  alternately  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Put  some  slices  of  cake  around  the  sides  of  a  glass 
dish,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  let  it  stand  several  hours  in  a 
refrigerator  or  very  cool  place. 


A  Boiled  Peach  Pudding. 

Make  a  batter  of  five  eggs  and  three  pints  of  milk,  and  beat 
well.  Stir  in  some  stewed  dried  peaches  just  before  putting 
on  to  boil.  Put  into  boiling  water  and  cook  for  three  hours, 
turning  frequently  to  keep  the  peaches  from  settling  on  one 
side.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 


Cheese  Pudding. 

Mix  together  half  a  pound  of  grated  cheese,  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk.  Mix  well,  season  with  a 
little  salt,  and  bake  in  a  -buttered  dish,  putting  some  slices  of 
toasted  bread  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  or  omitting  them  as 
you  like. 


CAKES. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Cream  one  pound  of  butter,  and  stir  into  it  ten  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  pound  of  flour.  Stone  and  cut 
fine  three  pounds  of  raisins,  stem  and  dry  two  pounds  of  cur- 
rants, and  slice  one  pound  of  citron  fine,  and  add  to  the 
batter.  Grate  one  nutmeg  and  put  in,  and  if  the  cake  is  to 
be  used  shortly  after  baking,  acid  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched 
and  cut  fine.  If  kept  any  time  the  almonds  impart  a  rancid 
taste  to  the  cake.  A  small  portion  of  the  flour  must  be 
reserved  to  dredge  the  fruit  with,  to  prevent  it  from  sinking  in 
the  batter.  Bake  slowly  for  six  or  seven  hours. 
7 


74  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Another  Fruit  Cake. 


Beat  together  a  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
and  when  well  mixed  add  a  pound  of  flour  and  eight  eggs 
beaten  separately  and  light.  Then  put  in  the  fourth  of  an 
ounce  of  mace,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  gill  of  brandy,  a  pound  of 
currants  dried  and  rubbed  in  flour,  and  half  a  pound  of  raisins 
stoned,  cut  in  halves,  and  dredged  with  flour.  Before  you  put  in 
the  fruit,  take  out  a  small  portion  of  the  batter.  Butter  the 
mould,  then  put  in  a  small  portion  of  the  batter  without  the 
fruit,  next  a  little  batter  with  fruit  in  it,  strew  in  some  citron 
cut  thin  and  floured,  and  repeat  these  alternate  layers  of  bat- 
ter without  fruit,  with  fruit,  and  citron,  until  all  is  .in,  and 
lastly  put  on  top  the  remaining  portion  of  batter  without  fruit, 
until  it  is  half  an  inch  thick.  It  should  also  be  half  an 
inch  thick  without  fruit  at  the  bottom  to  prevent  the  fruit  from 
touching  the  pan  and  burning.  Set  the  mould  in  a  well-heated 
oven,  and  when  it  has  risen  and  the  top  of  the  cake  is  a  light 
brown,  cover  over  with  a  sheet  of  paper.  It  will  take  from 
five  to  six  hours  to  bake. 

Instead  of  putting  the  raisins  and  currants  in  the  batter, 
they  may  be  dredged  with  flour  and  put  in  with  the  citron  in 
alternate  layers  with  the  batter,  taking  care  not  to  have  any 
fruit  within  less  than  half  an  inch  of  the  bottom,  and  so  put 
in  as  not  to  touch  the  sides  of  the  pan. 


Black  Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
butter,  two  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  twelve 
eggs  beaten  light,  and  spice  to  your  taste. 


Clove  Cake. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cloves,  and  some  molasses 
mixed  in. 


CAKES.  75 


Bread  Cake, 

Three  pounds  of  light  dough,  one  pound  of  butter,  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  a  wineglassful  of  brandy,  and 
one  nutmeg.  Work  well  together,  and  bake  three  hours  in  a 
loaf. 

Cream  Cake. 

Four  teacups  of  flour,  three  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of 
cream,  five  eggs,  and  three  fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  mix  in  the  other  ingredi- 
ents, and  bake  as  pound  cake. 


Clieese   Cake. 

One  quart  of  curd  squeezed  dry,  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  a  teacup  of 
currants,  and  spice  to  your  taste.  When  light,  put  into  your 
paste  in  small  pans. 


\  Composition  Cake. 

A  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  three  fourths  of 
a  pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  three  fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  one  wineglassful  of  rose-water, 
nutmeg  and  essence  of  lemon  to  your  taste.  Beat  until  light 
and  bake  as  pound  cake. 

Cup   Cake. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  two  of  butter,  five  of  flour,  three  eggs, 
and  a  little  brandy.    Beat  well  and  bake  in  pans. 


Another  Cup  Cake. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  three  pounds  of  flour, 
four  eggs,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  spice  to  your 
taste. 


76  DIXIE   COOKERY. 


Cup  Cake  without  Eggs. 


One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sour  cream,  or 
milk,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  cold  water, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  winegiassful  of 
brandy  or  wine,  and  half  a  nutmeg. 


A  Write  Cup  Cake. 

One  large  teacup  of  cream  or  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  butter, 
two  of  white  sugar,  and  four  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  the  butter 
and  sugar  together,  and  by  degrees  add  the  cream  and  half 
the  flour.  Stir  into  the  mixture  five  well-beaten  eggs,  with 
the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Put  in  some  essence  of  lemon, 
and  lastly  stir  in  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  sour  milk.  Beat  the  batter  well  and  put  it  into  small 
pans,  and  set  in  a  moderately  warm  oven,  and  bake  about 
twenty  minutes. 

Wafers. 

One  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  a  winegiassful  of  wine,  and  half  a  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  wafer-irons  a  light  brown,  and  roll  up  as  a  scroll 
whilst  hot. 

Loaf  Cake. 

-  Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  half  a  pint  of 
yeast,  four  eggs,  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Mix  the  sugar  in  the 
flour,  and  acid  raisins  and  spices  after  the  first  rising. 


Pint  Cake. 

One  pint  of  dough,  with  one  teacupful  of  sugar  and  one  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  three  eggs,  with  raisins  and 
spices  worked  into  it. 


CAKES.  77 


Tea  Cake. 


Three  eggs,  a  cup  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  three  of  sugar, 
and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda.  It  should  not  be  quite  as 
stiff  as  pound  cake. 

New  Orleans  Tea  Cake. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  caraway- 
seed,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk. 
Roll  out,  and  bake  in  small  cakes. 


Shrewsbury  Cake. 

One  teacupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two 
cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  and  half  a  wineglassful  of  brandy. 


Wonders. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  nine  eggs,  and  a  little  rose-water  and 
mace. 

Bunns. 

Take  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  a  pint  of  milk,  brandy,  rose-water,  and  spice  to  your 
taste,  and  a  wineglassful  of  yeast,  and  mix  well  together  and 
set  them  to  rise.  When  light,  add  an  eighth  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour,  and  let  them  rise  again 
before  you  bake  them. 

Spanish  Bunns. 

Stir  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  seven  wine- 
glassfuls  of  warm  milk  (not  hot),  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
flour,  nine  eggs,  three  wineglassfuls  of  yeast,  and  one  nutmeg. 
Let  it  stand  two  hours,  and  then  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
sugar. 

7* 


78  DIXIE   COOKERY. 


Sugar  Biscuit. 

One  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
same  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  a  teacupful  of 
yeast,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


Doughnuts. 

Mix  together  six  pounds  of  flour,  and  a  pound  and  three 
quarters  of  sugar.  Stir  a  pound  of  butter  into  enough  of 
warm  milk  to  make  up  the  flour  into  a  stiff  batter.  Acid 
seven  well-beaten  eggs  to  the  batter,  and  a  teacupful  and  a 
half  of  yeast,  and  set  it  to  rise.  When  it  is  light,  knead  in 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  some  powdered  cinnamon 
and  mace,  and  set  to  rise  again.  When  it  is  very  light,  roll 
it  out  thin,  cut  it  in  shapes,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Sprinkle 
cinnamon  and  loaf-sugar  over  them  whilst  hot. 


Florida  Cake. 

Mix  together  two  pounds  of  flour,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  a 
pound  and  three  quarters  of  butter,  and  seventeen  well-beaten 
eggs.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  and  cloves,  and  a  glassful  of 
brandy,  and  stir  in  a  pound  of  currants  picked  and  washed 
and  dredged  with  flour,  and  a  pound  of  raisins,  stoned,  cut 
in  halves,  and  floured. 

Frontier  Cake. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  two 
pounds  of  flour,  and  eight  eggs  beaten  separately  and  light. 
Mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour,  and 
when  all  the  ingredients  are  well  beaten  together,  put  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  pour 
into  your  moulds  to  bake. 

Wafers. 

Mix  together  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  six  well-beaten  eggs,  with  flour  enough  to  make 


CAXES. 


a  stiff  batter.  Beat  the  batter  very  smooth,  and  flavor  with 
lemon  or  nutmeg,  Heat  and  grease  the  wafer-irons  every  time 
you  bake  a  wafer.  Roll  up  the  cake  whilst  warm,  and  sift 
powdered  sugar  over  while  the}'  are  hot. 


Pound-Cake  Gingerbread. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  molasses,  one  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  buttermilk  or  sour  cream,  four  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs, 
a  tablespoonfnl  of  ground  ginger  and  one  of  cloves,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cream  of  tartar  poured  in  last  of  all. 


Light  Gingerbread. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  six  eggs, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed  in  a  pint  of  molasses. 


Soft  Gingerbread. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  molasses,  two  of  buttermilk,  one  of 
butter,  one  egg,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  thick  batter. 
Add  a  tablespoonfnl  of  powdered  ginger,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water.  The  batter  must  be  so 
thick  it  will  not  run.  Put  it  into  pans,  and  smooth  the  top 
with  a  knife. 

Ginger  Nuts. 

Three  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
•of  butter,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  ground  ginger,  a  quart  of  molasses,  an  ounce  of  allspice, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  powdered  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  small,  thin  cakes. 


Hard  Gingerbread. 

Four  pounds  of  flour,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  four  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  one  of  ground  ginger, 


80  •  DIXIE    COOKEEY. 

half  a  teacup  of  cream,  some  powdered  cloves,  and  molasses 
sufficient  to  make  a  soft  dough. 


Another  Gingerbread. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
same  quantity  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  molasses,  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  powdered  cloves,  and  some  cinnamon  and  all- 
spice preserved,  and  a  small  quantity  of  caraway  seed. 


Diet  Bread. 

A  pound  of  flour,  a  pound  of  sugar,  nine  well-beaten  eggs, 
leaving  out  four  of  the  whites,  a  little  mace,  and  some  rose- 
water. 

Confederate  Cakes. 

One  pound  of  flour  mixed  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter.  Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  beaten  with  two 
eggs.  Flavor  with  rose-water  and  brandy  and  spice.  Make 
the  whole  into  a  soft  dough,  and  bake  in  small  cakes. 


New  Year's  Cake. 

Seven  pounds  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  two  pounds 
of  butter,  a  quart  of  cream,  a  wineglassful  of  wine  and  one 
of  brandy,  with  a  few  caraway  and  coriander  seeds,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed  with  a  little  hot  water. 


Ladies'  Cake. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  and  a  little  yeast. 
Mix  part  of  the  flour,  milk,  and  yeast  together,  and  let  them 
stand  till  light ;  then  stir  in  the  butter,  eggs,  and  sugar,  and 
let  them  rise  till  very  light.  This  cake  will  require  five  hours 
to  rise.     Bake  in  pans. 


CAKES.  81 


A  Scotch  Cake. 


Make  into  a  dough  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a 
pound  of  sifted  flour,  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  three  well-beaten 
eggs ;  flavor  with  cinnamon.  Roll  into  small,  thin  sheets, 
and  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Doughnuts. 

Work  into  a  dough  seven  pounds  of  flour,  two  and  a  half 
pounds  of  sugar,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  butter  and  lard,  five 
eggs,  a  pint  of  yeast,  a  quart  of  milk,  and  spice  to  your 
taste.  Knead  them  well,  and  set  to  rise ;  when  light,  knead 
in  more  milk,  roll  and  cut  thin  in  diamond  shape,  and  let 
them  stand  in  a  warm*  place  to  rise  a  few  minutes.  Fry  in 
boiling  lard. 

Apees. 

One  pound  of  flour  and  a  half  pound  of  butter  rubbed 
together,  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  few  caraway 
seeds,  and  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Cut  into 
cakes  a  third  of  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  buttered  pans,  in 
a  quick  oven,  till  of  a  pale  brown. 


French  Bunns. 

Four  eggs  beaten  light,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two 
gills  of  milk,  a  gill  and  a  half  of  yeast,  some  rose-water  and 
cinnamon,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water.  Put  the  butter  and  milk  in  a  pan  near  the  fire  till  the 
butter  is  melted  ;  then  set  it  away  to  cool.  Put  all  the  ingre- 
dients in  the  flour,  stirring  in  the  sugar  last  of  all,  and  a  little 
at  a  time.  Beat  the  mixture  well  and  put  in  pans,  and  let  it 
stand  until  light  (nearly  five  hours),  and  bake  in  shallow 
pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 


82  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Clay  Jumbles. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  butter,  three  of  sugar,  and  five  of  flour, 
with  three  eggs.  Roll  thin,  and  sprinkle  loaf-sugar  over  them 
before  baking. 


Jackson  Jumbles. 

A  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sour  cream, 
three  eggs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  stirred  into  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Davis  Jumbles  (very  fine). 

i 
One  teacupful  of  grated  loaf-sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  and 
the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  light.  Mix  to  a  tolerably  stiff 
dough  with  flour,  and  if  you  like,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  thick 
cream,  and  as  much  soda  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence.  Roll  the 
dough  in  thin  sheets,  and  cut  in  round  cakes  or  rings.  Dip 
the  cakes  in  grated  loaf-sugar  before  baking. 


North  Carolina  Jumbles. 

One  pound  of  flour,  the  same  of  sugar,  and  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  butter.  Mix  these  ingredients  with  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  wineglassful  of  rose-water,  and  some  essence  of 
lemon.  Roll  into  thin  sheets,  and  cut  in  rings,  and  dip  in 
loaf-sugar  before  baking. 


Family  Jumbles. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,   a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,   a 
pound  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  wineglassful  oi 
new  wine,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  hot  water,  and 
tablespoonful  of  caraway  seeds. 


CAKES.  83 


Macaroons. 


Half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  powdered,  the  white 
of  one  egg,  a  spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  and  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Pound  these  together  till  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  and  then  acid  the  beaten  white  of  another 
egg,  and  a  very  little  flour  sprinkled  in.  Drop  on  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  on  tins  in  a  quick  oven,  for  fifteen  minutes, 
till  of  a  pale-brown  color. 


Macaroons  of  Flour. 

Work  a  pint  of  sifted  loaf-sugar  into  one  beaten  egg  until 
you  have  a  smooth  paste,  and  then  add  a  little  sifted  flour 
sufficient  to  mould  it  into  small  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg. 
Flavor  them  with  lemon.  Lay  on  buttered  paper  an  inch 
apart,  and  then  smooth  over  the  top  by  clipping  your  fingers 
in  cold  water  and  running  over  them.  Bake  slowly  in  a  cool 
oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


Cocoanut  Macaroons. 

Take  equal  parts  of  grated  cocoanut  and  powdered  white 
sugar,  and  mix  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  until  they  form 
a  thick  paste.  Bake  on  buttered  paper  until  of  a  pale-brown 
color. 

Norfolk  Tea  Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  six  eggs,  with  flavoring  of  lemon  or 
vanilla. 

Palmetto    Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  the  same  of  butter,  a  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  sugar,  twelve  eggs,  two  grated  cocoanuts,  and  two 
pounds  of  citron  sliced  and  floured  as  for  fruit  cake.  Beat 
well  and  bake  as  pound  cake,  but  it  will  require  a  longer  time 
in  the  oven  on  account  of  the  fruit. 


84  DIXIE   COOKERY. 


Clay  Cake, 


One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  four  eggs,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Dissolve  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  a  portion  of  the  cream,  and  pour  into  the 
batter  as  you  put  the  cake  in  the  mould.  Mix  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour  before  sifting  it.  Bake 
as  pound  cake.  Use  care  in  removing  the  cake  from  the 
mould,  or  it  will  break. 


Pound  Cake. 

•Cream  a  pound  of  butter  and  beat  it  with  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered loaf-sugar.  Beat  eight  eggs  separately  and  light,  and 
add  the  yolks  to  the  sugar  and  butter.  Stir  in  the  flour  and 
beaten  whites  alternately.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
mould. 

Plain   WJiite  Cake. 

Cream  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  butter,  and  beat  it  into  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour 
alternately  with  the  beaten  whites  of  thirty  eggs.  Flavor 
with  lemon  or  rose-water. 


Pearl  Cake. 

Beat  together  a  teacup  of  creamed  butter  and  two  cupfuls 
of  loaf-sugar.  Add  to  them  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  in  a  cupful  of  corn 
starch.  Then  put  in  a  teacupful  of  rich  cream,  and  lastly 
three  teacupfuls  of  flour  alternately  with  the  beaten  whites 
of  six  eggs.     Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 


Richmond  Cake. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  teacupful  and  a  half 
of  white  sugar,  beaten  together  to  a  cream,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  cupful  of  milk,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dis- 


CAKES.  85 

solved  in  hot  water  and  added  to  it,  and  a  pint  of  flour  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  mixed  in  it.  Beat  all 
well  together,  and  flavor  to  your  taste. 


Cottage  Cake. 

Beat  together  three  eggs  and  a  teacupful  of  sugar,  a  cupful 
and  a  half  of  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 
mixed  in  the  flour.  Bake  in  small  pans.  This  quantity  is 
sufficient  for  a  dozen  small  panfuls. 


Almond  Cake,  No.  1. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  half  a  pound  of  al- 
monds, half  a  pound  (or  a  little  more)  of  flour,  and  one  nut- 
meg. Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  very  light, 
blanch  the  almonds  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  rose- 
water  or  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  add  them  alternately  with 
the  flour  and  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  If  you  bake  in  one 
large  cake,  it  will  require  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  slow  oven. 
In  small  pans,  less  time  will  be  required.  It  will  require  close 
attention  whilst  baking.  Blanch  the  almonds  by  pouring 
boiling  water  over  them. 


Almond  Cake,  No.  2. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
flour,  twelve  eggs  beaten  light.  Two  pounds  of  almonds 
blanched  and  pounded  in  a  mortar  with  rose-water.  Mix  as 
pound  cake.  The  almonds  are  blanched  by  pouring  boiling 
water  over  them,  to  remove  the  skins,  and  dropping  them  in 
cold  water  to  keep  them  white/ 


Almond  Bride's  Cake. 

Take  two  pounds  of  flour  sifted,  two  pounds  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  loaf-sugar,  sixteen  eggs,  and  two  pounds  of  cur- 
rants washed  and  picked.     Blanch  half  a  pound  of  almonds, 
8 


86  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

and  cut  them  lengthwise  in  thin  strips  ;  half  a  pound  of  cit- 
ron cut  thin,  half  a  pound  of  candied  orange-peel  sliced,  and 
half  a  pound  of  candied  lemon  sliced.  Cream  the  butter,  add 
the  sugar,  and  beat  well ;  stir  in  the  eggs  cut  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  add  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  currants,  and  almonds,  and 
citron,  and  candied  orange,  and  lemon.  It  will  require  three 
hours'  baking. 

Sponge  Cake. 

One  pound  of  sugar  rolled  and  sifted,  twelve  eggs  beaten 
separately  and  light,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  well,  then  add  the  flour, 
stirring  it  in  lightly,  and  lastly  put  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Flavor  with  lemon,  and  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Do  not  beat  it  long  after  the  flour  is 
in,  or  it  will  be  tough.     One  half  rice-flour  is  an  improvement. 


Virginia  Sponge  Cake. 

Twelve  eggs,  the  weight  of  eight  eggs  in  sugar,  and  the 
weight  of  six  eggs  in  flour.  The  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Beat  all  well  together.  Put  in  the  flour 
last. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  half  a 
cup  of  cream,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Flavor  with  lemon. 
Put  in  the  flour  last. 

Rice  Flow  Pound  Cake. 

Take  seven  eggs,  one  pound  of  rice  flour,  one  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  pound  of  butter.  Flavor  with  lemon,  and  mix  and 
bake  it  as  other  pound  cake. 


Rice  Flour  Sponge  Cake. 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  one  pound  of 
white  sugar  finely  powdered,  and  ten  eggs.     Beat  the  yolks 


CAKES.  87 

with  the  sugar,  and  the  whites  alone.  Add  the  flour  and 

whites  alternately,  a  little  at  a  time.  Season  with  brandy, 
and  bake  in  shallow  pans. 


Boiled  Sponge  Cake. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  tumbler  of 
water  to  be  put  in  a  kettle  and  set  over  the  fire  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Beat  seven  eggs  separately  and  light ;  then  mix 
them,  and'pour  over  them  the  sugar  and  water  when  luke- 
warm. Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  half  a  pound  of  flour 
stirred  in  at  the  last. 


Variegated  Pound  Cake. 

Beat  to  a  cream  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  one 
pound  of  white  sugar.  Mix  in  with  them  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  and  stir  in  gradually  one  pound  of 
sifted  flour.  Flavor  with  rose-water  or  lemon.  Pulverize 
one  drachm  of  cochineal,  the  same  quantity  of  alum,  a  drachm 
of  soda  and  one  of  cream  of  tartar ;  pour  over  them  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  strain  through  a  piece  of 
thin  muslin.  Incorporate  this  thoroughly  with  one-eighth  of 
the  batter.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mould  a  layer  of  white 
batter,  and  then  a  thin  layer  of  the  rose-colored  batter,  and 
proceed  thus  until  all  the  batter  is  in.  Finally  pass  a  knife- 
blade  four  or  five  times  through  the  batter  to  variegate  it 
finely.  This  quantity  of  coloring  is  sufficient  for  two  pounds 
of  cake. 

Currant  an%  Almond  Cake. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  the  same  of  flour,  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  six  eggs.  Mix,  and  beat  well,  as  pound  cake, 
and  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  currants,  and  half  a  pound  of 
blanched  almonds  cut  in  thin  slices  and  put  in  last. 


Jelly  Cake. 
Beat  ten  eggs  separately  and  light.     Cream  half  a  pound 


88  DIXIE    COOKERY.  .  i 

of  butter,  and  stir  into  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  one  pound 
of  sugar.  Lastly,  beat  in  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
and  grate  into  the  mixture  two  nutmegs  and  a  dessertspoonful 
of  yeast-powder  or  soda. 


Crullers. 


Beat  two  eggs  well  with  a  teacup  of  sugar,  stir  in  half  a 
teacupful  of  milk,  or  cream  if  you  have  it,  and  pour  into  a 
pan  of  flour  ;  make  a  stiff  dough,  roll  it  thin,  cut  it  in  shapes, 
and  fry  it  in  boiling  lard.  The  more  lard  there  is,  the  less 
they  will  soak  it  up,  and  it  must  be  hot  or  they  will  not  be 
light.     Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  while  they  are  hot. 


Golden  Cakes. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well,  and  pour  in  some  sifted 
flour  and  beat  well.  Then  work  flour  enough  into  it  to  make 
a  very  stiff  dough.  Put  a  little  salt  in  the  flour.  Roll  out  the 
dough  into  very  thin  sheets,  —  as  thin  as  a  knife-blade,  —  and 
cut  in  diamond  shapes  with  a  notched  wheel,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.  Sprinkle  over  powdered  sugar  whilst  hot.  The  whites 
of  the  eggs  made  up  and  baked  in  the  same  way  make  an 
equally  nice  cake. 

To  make  Kisses. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  in  a 
pound  of  sifted  white  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time.  Beat  well, 
flavor  with  lemon,  drop  on  white  paper  buttered,  and  bake 
with  a  slow  heat,  but  not  too  ceol  an  oven,  or  they  will  run 
together.     Stick  two  together  when  they  are  done. 


Boiled  Icing  for  Cake. 

Take  the  best  refined  loaf-sugar,  break  it  into  small  lumps, 
and  pour  over  it  some  cold  water,  taking  care  to  use  no  more 
than  will  be  just  sufficient  to  dissolve  it.  Mash  the  lumps 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  and  set  over  the  fire  and  boil  with- 
out stirring  until  the  syrup  is  the  consistency  of  honey.     In 


CAKES.  89 

the  meantime  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
allowing  this  number  of  eggs  to  every  pound  of  sugar.  Strain 
the  boiled  syrup  into  a  bowl  immediately  upon  removing  it 
from  the  fire,  and  in  a  few  minutes  stir  in  gradually  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  and  some  lemon-juice  or  essence.  Beat  it 
until  very  smooth  and  light,  and  put  in  a  few  drops  of  indigo 
squeezed  through  a  muslin  bag,  to  make  it  a  pearly  white.  If 
the  icing  is  too  thin,  set  the  bowl  in  an  oven  of  boiling  water, 
over  a  few  bright  coals,  and  stir  it  whilst  it  boils,  taking  care 
it  does  not  adhere  to  the  side  of  the  bowl.  Or  you  may  omit 
a  portion  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  If  too  thick  from  stand- 
ing, add  some  beaten  white  of  egg,  a  small  portion  at  a  time, 
until  of  the  proper  consistency.  Put  on  this  icing  while  it  is 
warm. 

Cold  Icing  for  Cake. 

Roll,  and  sift  well  through  a  sieve  and  coarse  muslin,  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  stir  gradually  into  them  the  pulverized  sugar.  Beat 
it  well  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Or  you  may  take  the  white  of 
one  egg  to  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  very  little  rose-water, 
and  beat  together  until  they  stand.*  Add  a  few  drops  of 
lemon-juice,  or  a  little  tartaric  acid  dissolved  in  very  little 
water.  Beat  very  well,  and  put  on  the  cake  in  a  thin  coat. 
When  this  is  dry  put  on  a  second  coat,  and  as  many  more  as 
will  make  the  icing  thick  enough. 


Orange  Icing  for  Orange-Drops. 

Make  the  orange-drops  by  dropping  very  stiff  pound  cake 
batter  on  tin  plates.  They  should  be  about  the  size  of  a 
silver  dollar.  Prepare  the  icing  by  beating  together  orange- 
juice  and  pulverized  sugar  until  quite  stiff.  When  the 
orange-drops  are  baked  a  pale  brown,  and  are  cold,  spread  this 
icing  over,  and  set  in  an  oven  to  dry.  Put  on  only  one  coat 
of  icing. 

They  are  delicious,  and  look  prettily  in  a  basket  of  mixed 
cake.  They  will  be  much  nicer  if  the  pound-cake  batter  is 
flavored  with  the  orange-juice  and  grated  rind. 

8* 


90  DIXIE   COOKERY. 

PKESEKVES  AND   JELLIES. 

Crab  Apples. 


Put  them  into  37our  preserving-kettle,  with  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  until  the  skin  breaks. 
Then  take  them  out  one  by  one  and  skin  them,  and  remove 
the  seeds  with  a  penknife.  Make  a  syrup  of  a  pint  of  water 
and  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit,  and  when  it  is 
clear,  drop  in  the  apples  and  let  them  boil  until  they  are 
transparent. 

Pine-Apple  Marmalade. 

Pare  and  grate  the  pine-apple,  and  take  equal  parts  of  fruit 
and  sugar  and  put  into  your  preserving-kettle,  and  cook 
slowly  until  it  is  clear.     It  is  very  nice  and  keeps  well. 


^  Pine-Apples. 

Pare  and  slice  the  fruit.  Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water  to  every  pound  of  fruit,  and 
when  it  is  clarified  and  well  skimmed,  drop  in  the  apples  and 
let  them  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour.  If  you  only  wish  to  keep 
them  for  a  short  time,  less  sugar  will  do,  and  the  flavor  is 
finer. 

Apples. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  and  drop  them  into  cold  water.  Or, 
after  you  have  cored  them,  cut  them  across  so  that  they  will 
be  in  thick  rings.  Make  a  syrup  of  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  fruit ;  clarify  it  by  mixing  the  white  of  an  egg 
to  every  two  pounds  of  sugar  before  it  goes  on  the  fire  ;  boil 
and  skim  it,  and  drop  in  the  apples.  Simmer  slowly  till  the 
fruit  is  clear.  Then  take  out  the  apples,  and  boil  the  syrup 
until  it  is  rich,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  If  the  apples  are 
tart,  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound 
of  fruit.  If  they  are  not  very  firm,  take  them  up  on  dishes  to 
cool  after  they  have  been  in  the  syrup  a  few  minutes,  and 


PliESERVES   AND    JELLIES.  91 

when  cold  return  them  to  the  kettle.  Add  the  peel  of  several 
lemons  (cut  in  rings  and  boiled  a  few  minutes  in  hot  water)  to 
the  syrup  after  the  fruit  is  taken  out. 


To  Preserve  Green-Gage  Plums. 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  put  into  the  kettle  with  alternate  layers 
of  vine-leaves.  Fill  the  kettle  with  cold  water,  and  let  them 
simmer  until  the  skin  begins  to  crack  open.  Then  remove 
from  the  fire  and  pare  them  with  a  knife,  leaving  the  stems  on. 
Measure  the  parings,  and  for  every  pint  deduct  a  pound  from 
the  weight  of  the  fruit.  Scald  the  fruit  again  after  it  has  been 
pared.  Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of 
fruit  with  a  very  little  water,  and  when  clarified,  drop  in  the 
fruit  and  cook  slowly  until  clear.  Then  remove  from  the 
syrup,  and  add  another  pound  of  sugar  to  the  syrup,  and  boil 
for  half  an  hour. 

If  you  do  not  wish  to  take  off  the  skins,  prick  them  with  a 
pin. 

Cherries. 

Stone  the  fruit,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  take  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Put  the  fruit  in  your  kettle  in  alternate  laj^ers  with 
the  sugar,  and  boil  and  skim  until  they  are  tender  and  the 
syrup  is  rich.  Or  you  may  take  twelve  pounds  of  Moulla 
cherries,  and  stone  them,  and  dissolve  four  pounds  of  sugar 
with  the  juice  from  the  fruit ;  clarify  it,  and  put  in  the  fruit, 
and  boil  slowly  until  they  are  cooked. 


Apricots. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  the  fruit,  and  wipe  them  dry.  Then 
cut  them  in  halves  and  stone  them.  Take  equal  parts  of  fruit 
and  sugar,  and,  when  the  syrup  has  been  boiled,  put  in  the 
fruit  and  cook  it  slowly  until  it  is  clear  and  the  syrup  is  rich. 


Green  Lemons. 
Cut  them  in  halves,  take  out  the  pulp,  and  cut  in  fancy 


92  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

shapes,'  Put  into  your  preserving-kettle  and  cover  with 
water,  adding  a  little  alum  to  green  them.  Boil  until  clear, 
and  then  take  them  out  and  drain  them  on  a  cloth.  Clean  the 
kettle,  and  put  them  in  with  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  stew 
them  slowly  until  the  syrup  is  rich. 


Green  Peppers. 


Leave  the  stems  on  them ;  remove  the  seeds,  and  put  them 
in  salt  and  water  for  three  clays,  changing  the  water -every 
day.  Then  green  them  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water,  vine- 
leaves,  and  a  little  alum  ;  simmer  thus  for  two  hours.  Then 
put  them  into  fresh  water  for  three  days,  changing  the  water 
every  day.  Then  boil  in  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the 
same  weight  of  pepper  and  a  little  water,  for  half  an  hour. 
Fill  the  inside  with  candied  sugar. 


lov 


Green  Tomatoes  {very  fine). 

Take  them  while  quite  small  and  green,  and  put  them  into 
cold  clarified  S3>rup,  with  an  orange  cut  in  slices  to  every  two 
pounds  of  tomatoes.  (In  making  the  syrup,  take  the  weight 
of  the  fruit  in  sugar.)  Simmer  them  gentl}'  over  a  slow  fire 
for  two  or  three  hours.  Grate  the  rinds  and  add  the  juice  of 
two  fresh  lemons  to  every  three  pounds  of  preserves,  and  put 
in  some  bruised  ginger  in  bags.  If  you  wish  the  preserves  to 
be  very  superior,  take  the  tomatoes  from  the  syrup  when  they 
have  been  over  the  fire  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  more  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  fruit, 
and,  when  boiled  and  skimmed,  drop  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil 
till  the  syrup  seems  to  have  penetrated  them.  In  about  a 
week,  heat  the  syrup  boiling  hot,  and  pour  over  them,  and  seal 
up  immediately.     They  resemble  limes,  thus  prepared. 


Water-Melon  Rinds. 

Cut  in  strips  and  shapes,  and  remove  the  green  skin,  and 
boil  in  water  till  tender,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a 
dozen  peach-leaves  to  every  two  quarts  of  water.  Then  take 
out  the  rinds  and  soak  them  in  alum-water  an  hour,  and  after- 


PRESERVES    AND    JELLIES.  93 

wards  boil  gently  in  strong  ginger  tea  for  an  hour.  Make  a 
syrup  of  eqiwal  weights  of  the  sugar  and  rinds,  and  a  little 
water,  clarify  it,  and  boil  and  skim  it.  Then  put  in  the  rinds 
with  some  ginger-root  tied  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  when  hot  take 
them  out  on  dishes  to  cool,  and  when  cold  return  to  the  syrup 
and  cook  until  soft.  Pour  the  syrup  over,  and  after  a  few 
days  boil  the  syrup  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  flavor  with 
essence  of  lemon,  and  pour  over  the  rinds  whilst  it  is  hot. 
They  are  then  ready  to  put  into  jars. 


Orange  Marmalade. 

Put  the  rinds  of  the  oranges  into  a  kettle  with  cold  water, 
and  boil  until  soft  enough  to  run  the  head  of  a  pin  into  them 
easily.  Then  take  them  up  on  a  plate,  and  with  a  penknife 
remove  the  white  part  of  the  rind  so  as  to  leave  the  yellow 
part  of  the  rind  as  thin  as  possible.  Quarter  the  oranges  and 
pulp  them,  removing  the  seeds  and  core,  and  weigh  them  with 
the  skins,  and  to  every  pound  of  the  fruit  allow  a  pound  of 
loaf-sugar.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of 
water  to  every  pound  of  it,  and  boil  and  clarify,  and  throw  in 
the  rinds,  and  when  tender  add  the  pulp,  and  boil  all  together 
for  half  an  hour. 

Lemon  marmalade  is  made  in  the  same  way,  allowing  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  , 


A  New  and  Excellent  Way  of  preserving  Peaches. 

Pare,  halve,  and  weigh  the  peaches,  put  them  into  a  preserv- 
ing-kettle full  of  boiling  water,  and  to  every  six  pounds  of 
fruit  put  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Let  them  boil  one  minute, 
take  them  off,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water,  and  rem'ove  any 
dark  scum  which  may  adhere  to  them.  Make  the  syrup  of 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water  to  every  pound  of 
fruit.  Boil  and  clarify  it,  and  when  well  skimmed  put  in  the 
fruit,  and  when  half  done  take  the  peaches  from  the  syrup  and 
lay  on  dishes  so  that  each  piece  shall  be  separate,  and  let 
them  get  entirely  cold.  Then  return  to  the  boiling  syrup  and 
cook  until  done.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  rich.  This  pre- 
serve will  keep  for  twelve  months. 

It  is  best  to  warm  the  jars  and  put  in  the  preserves  hot,  but 


94  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

if  the  jars  are  of  glass,  they  will  break  unless  heated  quite 
hot  before  filling  them. 


Quinces, 


■ 


When  the  fruit  is  pared  and  cored,  put  them  into  a  kettl 
■with  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and*  boil  until  quite  tender 
but  not  soft.  Cut  them  in  rings,  and  put  on  them  their  weight 
in  sugar,  and  let  them  stand  while  the  cores  and  parings  are 
boiled,  in  the  same  water  from  which  they  were  taken,  in  order 
to  make  the  syrup  richer.  Boil  them  soft  and  strain  the  water. 
Have  the  kettle  cleaned ;  put  in  the  quinces  and  let  them 
simmer  with  the  sugar  and  water  the  parings  were  boiled  in. 
Skim  well,  and  when  clear  take  up  the  quinces  and  boil  the 
syrup  longer. 

Pears. 

Pare  the  fruit,  leaving  the  stems  on,  and  put  into  cold  water. 
You  may  remove  the  core,  or  not,  as  you  please.  Make 
syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water  to  ever] 
pound  of  pears,  and  boil  with  some  lemon-peel  or  green 
ginger.  Put  in  the  fruit  and  cook  until  clear,  and  let  the 
syrup  remain  over  the  fire  until  thick. 


/Strawberries. 

Gather  the  berries  in  dry  weather,  pick  out  the  firmest  and 
largest,  and  stem  them.  If  you  stem  them  as  you  remove 
from  the  vine  they  will  be  nicer.  To  every  pound  of  berries 
take  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  wine, 
allowing  a  wineglassful  to  a  pound,  and  clarify  and  boil  it. 
Then  pour  in  any  juice  that  runs  from  the  strawberries,  and 
skim  it  well.  When  boiling,  put  in  the  strawberries,  and  to 
every  pound  of  fruit  as  much  pulverized  alum  as  will  lie  on 
the  blade  of  a  penknife.  Let  them  boil  a  few  minutes  and 
they  are  done.  Try  them  by  taking  one  from  the  syrup  and 
cutting  it  in  halves.  Do  not  stir  them.  Remove  carefully 
from  the  syrup  and  boil  it  longer.  Have  small  jars  or  pint 
tumblers  of  common  glass  heated  until  so  hot  you  cannot 
hold  them  in  your  hand,  and  when  the  syrup  has  been  taken 


PRESERVES   AND   JELLIES.  95 

from  the  fire  a  few  minutes,  fill  the  jars  with  the  fruit,  and 
pour  over  the  syrup,  and  seal  up  tightly. 


Cranberries. 

Allow  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  add  water  in  the  propor- 
tions of  half  a  pint  to  two  pounds.  Boil  the  syrup,  and  when 
well  skimmed  put  in  the  berries  and  boil  till  clear.  To  make 
a  sauce  of  them,  allow  only  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  one  of  fruit. 

Blackberry  Jam. 

To  six  quarts  of  ripe  berries  take  three  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  and  wash  all  together  with  a  spoon.  Put  it  into  a 
kettle  and  boil  two  hours,  stirring  frequently.  Put  in  any 
spices  you  like,  or  omit  them.  When  cool,  put  it  into  a  jar, 
cover  with  brandied  paper,  and  seal,  and  it  will  keep  for  years. 


Ripe  Fox-Grape  Jam. 

Put  your  grapes  into  a  stew-pan  over  the  fire  until  they  are 
scalded ;  then  drain  them  well,  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  and 
add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  pulp,  and  boil  until  done, 
stirring  constantly. 


To  clarify  Sugar  for  Sweetmeats. 

To  every  four  pounds  of  sugar  take  a  quart  of  water  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Stir  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  water 
together  well  before  putting  over  the  fire.  When  it  comes  to 
a  boil,  throw  in  a  little  cold  water ;  the  scum  will  remain  on 
the  top,  and  can  be  easily  removed  with  a  perforated  skimmer. 
Boil  up  and  skim  it  three  times,  and  put  in  the  fruit. 


Blackberry  Jelly. 

Wash  three  quarts  of  the  berries,  and  set  them  over  the 
fire  with  a  pint  of  water.     When  they  have  stewed  half  an 


96  DIXIE   COOKERY. 

hour,  strain  out  the  juice  and  allow  a  pint  of  sugar  to  every 
quart  of  it.     This  is  very  fine  jelly,  and  will  keep  two  years. 


Very  Fine  Apple  Jelly. 

Wash  and  quarter  the  fruit  without  paring  it,  and  put  into  a 
kettle  and  cover  with  water.  Boil  till  perfectly  soft.  Then 
strain  the  juice  off,  and  to  every  pint  of  it  allow  half  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Don't  put  in  a  spoon  after  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Boil  for  nearly  an  hour,  or  until  it  jellies.  When  done,  strain 
through  a  thick  cloth.  If  the  jelly  is  not  firm,  put  in  some 
lemon-juice  and  heat  it  over,  or  some  gelatine.  If  you  wish  it 
very  light,  take  light-colored  fruit,  and  make  only  a  small 
quantity  at  a  time.     Quince  jelly  is  made  in  the  same  way. 


Currant  Jelly. 

Pick  off  the  stems,  bruise  the  fruit,  strain  off  the  juice,  and 
to  every  pint  of  juice  take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Stir  together  until  it  is  dissolved,  place  over  the  fire  skimming 
it  well,  and  when  it  has  boiled  for  fifteen  minutes  it  will  be 
done.  Try  it  by  putting  some  in  a  saucer,  and  when  it  is 
cold,  if  it  is  not  firm  enough,  boil  it  longer.  Fill  up  sm/ill 
common  glass  tumblers  with  it,  and  seal  up  immediately. 
Ripe  fox-grapes  make  an  excellent  jelly  by  stewing  them  with- 
out water  until  soft,  and  taking  a  pint  of  juice  to  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar. 


Gelatine  Jelly. 

Soak  two  ounces  of  gelatine  in  as  much  cold  water  as  will 
cover  it.  Then  take  it  out  and  dissplve  it  in  two  quarts  of 
boiling  water.  When  cool,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs,  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons,  and  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  and  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  strain  through  a 
jelly-bag.  Be  careful  not  to  press  the  bag.  If  you  wish  wine 
in  it,  add  a  pint  to  this  quantity,  of  any  light-colored  wine. 


PRESERVES    AND    JELLIES.  97 

Calves'-Foot  Jelly. 

Boil  four  feet  well,  strain  the  liquor,  and  remove  all  the  fat. 
When  cool  and  the  jelly  is  stiff,  wipe  it  with  a  towel,  to  re- 
move any  fat  that  may  remain.  Put  into  a  kettle,  and  when 
dissolved  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  (but  not  cold) 
stir  in  the  whites  and  shells  of  four  eggs,  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons,  and  a  little  wine. 
Boil  all  together  for  five  minutes,  and  strain  through  flannel 
dipped  in  hot  water,  into  moulds. 


Pigs'-Feet  Jelly. 

To  one  quart  of  stock  take  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  one 
pint  of  wine,  one  wineglassful  of  brandy,  the  rind  and  juice  of 
two  lemons,  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon  broken  up,  a  little  mace, 
and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  strained,  not  beaten,  and  the 
shells  broken  up ;  mix  all  these  ingredients  well  together,  and 
boil  for  forty  minutes.  Do  not  stir  it.  Then  throw  in  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer. 
Strain  through  a  flannel  bag  with  a  thin  layer  of  cotton  at  the 
bottom  of  it.  If  you  have  no  lemons,  use  a  part  of  a  tum- 
bler of  strong  white  vinegar,  and  use  the  essence  of  lemon.  If 
the  stock  has  not  kept  well,  boil  it  over,  and  strain  it  before 
making  the  jelly. 

Green  Fox-Grape  Jelly. 

Boil  in  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burning,  and  until 
the  skins,  burst ;  strain  them,  and  put  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pint  of  juice,  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour. 

Ripe  grapes  made  in  the  same  way. 


Isinglass  Jelly. 

To  one  ounce  of  shaved  isinglass  take  a  quart  of  water,  and 
boil  it  down  to  a  pint,  and  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag. 
Add  a  glass  of  wine  and  some  sugar  before  straining.  Stir  it 
and  put  it  in  glasses. 


98  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Gelatine  Jelly  without  boiling  or  straining. 


To  a  package  of  gelatine  take  a  pint  of  cold  water,  the 
juice  of.  three  lemons,  and  the  rind  of  one.  Let  it  stand  an 
hour,  and  then  add  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  a  pint  of 
winerand  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  white  crushed  sugar. 
A  wineglassful  of  brandy  will  improve  the  flavor.  Pour  into 
moulds,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 


Orange  Jelly. 

Take  a  pint  of  juice  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  an  ounce  of 
dissolved  isinglass  to  a  dozen  of  oranges,  and  boil  and  skim 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  in  a  little  of  the  grated  rind,  and 
when  done  pour  into  a  mould. 


To  conserve  Peaches. 

Pare  and  cut  your  fruit,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  take 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  them  until 
clear,  take  them  out,  and  drain  them  slightly,  and  spread  on 
dishes  to  dry.  Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  them  every  day,  and 
if  any  syrup  is  formed,  remove  them  to  fresh  dishes.  When 
quite  dry,  lay  them  lightly  in  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of 
sugar.  Quinces  are  nice,  done  in  the  same  way.  The  syrup 
boiled  a  little  longer  makes  a  delightful  cordial,  and  will  keep 
well  for  years.  Another  way  to  prepare  peaches  is  to  take  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  and  when 
the  syrup  boils,  drop  in  a  pound  of  peaches  cut  in  thick  slices, 
and  cook  until  half  done.  Then  dry  in  the  sun.  One  pound 
of  sugar  will  be  sufficient  for  six  pounds  of  peaches,  boiling 
only  one  pound  of  fruit  at  a  time.  The  cordial  from  them  is 
very  fine. 

Glass-Melon  Preserves. 

Pare  and  scrape  outside  and  inside  until  very  thin,  first 
cutting  a  hole  the  size  of  a  dime  at  each  end.  Soak  in  salt 
and  water  a  day  or  two,  then  in  weak  alum-water  twenty-four 
hours,  and  then  in  fresh  water  till  the  alum  taste  is  removed. 


SYRUPS,    CREAMS,    ICES,    CORDIALS,    ETC  99 

Boil  till  tender  in  strong  Jamaica  ginger  tea.  Make  a  syrup 
of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar  and  a  pint  of  water  to 
every  pound  of  fruit.  Drop  in  the  melons  and  boil  till  clear. 
They  will  be  lighter  colored  to  omit  the  boiling  in  ginger  tea; 
using  cold  water  instead,  and  after  boiling  in  the  sjTup  and 
removing  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  lemon  essence.  It  is  nicer, 
too,  to  scrape  them  and  not  pare  them.  They  keep  well.  For 
variety,  cut  some  of  the  melons  in  halves  after  scraping  them 
on  the  outside,  remove  the  inside,  and  notch  the  edges  pret- 
tily. 

Bread  Jelly. 

Boil  a  quart  of  water,  and,  when  cold,  put  into  'it  a  small 
loaf  of  bread  sliced  thin  and  toasted  brown.  Set  it  on  some 
coals  in  a  covered  vessel,  and  boil  gently  until  you  find  it  has 
become  a  perfect  jelly.  Strain  through  a  thin  cloth,  and  set 
away  until  wanted.  When  it  is  to  be  taken,  sweeten  with  loaf- 
sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon,  and  warm  a  teacupful  of  it  at  a 
time. 


SYRUPS,  CREAMS,  ICES,  CORDIALS,  ETC. 

Italian  Cream. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  six  or  eight  eggs  to  a  quart  of 
milk,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  add  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  to 
a  quart  of  custard.  When  quite  thick,  stir  in  as  much  rich 
syllabub  as  you  like. 


Lemon  or  Orange  Cream. 

Take  a  pint  of  thin  cream,  sweeten  it  quite  sweet,  add  a 
glass  of  wine,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  an  orange  or 
lemon.  Cut  the  whites  of  three  or  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  add  these  to  the  cream,  stirring  them  rapidly,  and  fill  your 
glasses  at  once.     You  may  churn  with  a  syllabub  churn  in- 


100  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

stead  of  stirring  it,  before  filling  the  glasses.  Or  you  may 
grate  the  rind  of  four  oranges  into  half  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  and  then  add  the  juice  of  a 
dozen  oranges  and  another  half  pint  of  water.  -Beat  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  and  the  whites  of  eight,  and  strain  the  juice 
over  the  egg.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  and  make  it  quite  sweet 
with  loaf-sugar.  When  it  begins  to  thicken,  take  it  from  the 
fire  and  stir  till  cold,  and  serve  in  glasses.  It  is  very  nice 
frozen. 

Almond  Cream. 

Roll  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  fine  with  a  bottle,  put- 
ting in  a  few  drops  of  rose-water,  and  then  stir  them  into  a 
quart  of  cream.  Sweeten  with  loaf-sugar,  and  put  it  over  the 
fire  and  stir  till  it  thickens. 


Imitation  Cream. 

Beat  three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Bo'il  a 
few  peach-leaves  in  a  quart  of  cream,  strain  and  sweeten  it, 
and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Put  in  the  beaten  whites, 
set  over  the  fire,  and  when  thick  take  it  up  and  pour  out  to 
cool.     Serve  with  any  kind  of  fruit. 


Swiss  Cream. 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  cream,  the  same  quantity  of  milk,  a 
piece  of  lemon-rind,  and  enough  loaf-sugar  to  sweeten  it. 
Thicken  this  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  when  nearly 
cold,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  it ;  this  will  thicken  it. 
Then  put  into  a  glass  dish  and  stick  macaroons  in  it,  or  put 
in  glasses. 

Pine-apple  Cream. 

Put  into  a  bowl  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  apple,  the 
same  proportion  of  cream,  and  beat  well  together,  with  a  pint 
and  a  quarter  of  lemon  jelly  made  with  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  gelatine.  Lemon-juice  and  sugar  to  your  taste.  Froth 
thick  cream  and  put  on  the  top. 


SYRUPS,    CREAMS,    ICES,    CORDIALS,    ETC.  101 


Raspberry  Cream. 

Rub  a  quart  of  raspberries  through  a  sieve  to  take  out  the 
seeds,  and  then  mix  it  well  with  some  cream,  and  sweeten 
with  sugar  to  your  taste.  Put  it  in  a  bowl  and  froth  with  a 
syllabub  churn,  taking  off  the  froth  as  it  rises.  When  you 
have  as  much  froth  as  you  want,  put  the  rest  of  the  cream 
into  a  deep  glass  bowl  or  dish,  and  put  the  frothed  cream  on 
it,  as  high  as  it  will  stand. 


Strawberry  Cream. 

Make  it  in  the  same  way  as  raspberry  cream.  The  coloring 
may  be  improved  by  using  a  little  of  the  rose-coloring  for  ices 
and  /jellies. 

To  preserve  Cream. 

Scald  thick  cream  and  it  will  keep  twenty-four  hours,  and 
if  you  sweeten  it  with  sugar  (powdered),  it  will  keep  two 
days.  By  boiling  and  skimming  the  cream,  and  putting  in 
loaf-sugar  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
quart  of  cream,  and  boiling  twenty  minutes  longer,  and  bot- 
tling and  sealing  when  partly  cool,  it  will  be  nice  for  weeks. 
Seal  the  bottles  with  rosin. 


Orange  Syrup. 

Squeeze  the  juice  and  strain  it,  and  to  every  pint  of  it  add 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar.-  Boil  it  slowly  and 
skim  it  well,  and  when  the  scum  ceases  to  rise,  take  it  from 
the  fire,  let  it  grow  cold,  and  bottle  it.  Secure  the  corks  well. 
It  is  a  nice  flavoring  for  pudding-sauces,  or  custards,  or  punch. 


Lemon  Syrup. 

One  quart  of  water  and  three  pounds  of  sugar  boiled  and 
skimmed  well,  and  when  of   the  consistency  of  honey  and 
quite  hot,  stir  in  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  tartaric  acid 
9* 


J  02  DJXITC    COOKERY. 

previously  rubbed  well  in  a  mortar  with  twenty-five  drops  of 
essence  or  oil  of  lemon.  It  will  require  but  twelve  drops  of 
the  oil  of  lemon,  or  even  less  will  do.  The  essence  is  best,  as 
the  oil  is  seldom  very  fresh.  The  essence  and  acid  must  be 
well  mixed.  A  small  quantity  in  cold  water  is  a  good  substi- 
tute for  lemonade  of  fresh  lemons. 


Lemon  Syrup  for  Seasoning. 

Pare  the  lemons  very  thin,  and  put  the  peel  to  boil  in  a 
quart  of  water  ;  cover  it,  and  put  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  to 
a  dozen  lemons,  and  boil  till  it  becomes  a  rich  syrup.  Keep 
it  well  corked  to  season  ice  creams  with. 


Lemon  Juice. 

Boil  together  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  three  quarts  of 
water,  and  a  quart  of  strained  lemon  juice  until  the  scum 
rises  and  the  syrup  is  quite  rich.     Then  strain  and  bottle  it. 


Pine-apple  Syrup, 

Pare  and  cut  the  fruit  in  pieces,  an#  boil  three  pounds  of 
it,  with  a  quart  of  water,  till  soft ;  then  mash  and  strain  it, 
and  to  a  pint  of  this  juice  put  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  it 
till  it  is  a  rich  syrup,  and  keep  it  corked  in  bottles  to  season 
ice  cream. 

Strawberry  Syrup. 

Mash,  and  strain  the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  of  it  put  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  it  till  quite  a  rich  syrup  is  formed. 
Then  bottle  and  cork  it. 


Mountain  Nectar. 

Put  six  pounds  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  and 
two  quarts  of  water  ;  put  all  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  let  it 
come   almost  to  a  boil,  but  not   quite  to  the  boiling-point. 


SYRUPS,    CREAMS,    ICES,    CORDIALS,    ETC.  103 

Then  take  it  off  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  four  well-beaten 
eggs.  Strain  it,  and  when  it  is  cool,  flavor  it  richly  with 
essence  of  lemon.  It  will  keep  for  months.  Two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  this  mixture,  and  two-thirds  of  a  glass  of  ice-water,  to 
be  put  into  a  goblet,  and  when  ready  to  drink,  a  small  quan- 
tity of  soda  stirred  in,  which  will  make  it  effervesce  finely. 


Strawberry  or  Blackberry  Acid. 

Stem,  wash,  and  pick,  twelve  pounds  of  fruit,  and  put  in 
dishes,. and  sprinkle  over  them  five  ounces  of  tartaric  acid, 
and  pour  over  them  two  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  stand  thus 
for  forty-eight  ho,urs,  ana  strain  it  without  bruising  the  fruit, 
and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  from  one  to  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  of  powdered  white  sugar.  Stir  till  dissolved,  and 
leave  it  uncovered  for  a  few  days.  Then  bottle,  and  if  inclined 
to  ferment,  leave  the  corks  out  for  a  few  days. 


Pine-apple  Cider  (very  fine) . 

Cut  the  rind  of  one  large  pine-apple  or  two  small  ones,  into 
small  pieces ;  put  them  into  a  pitcher  with  two  quarts  of 
water.  Tie  a  piece  of  thin  cloth  over  the  pitcher,  and  let  it 
stand  to  ferment.  Then  strain  it  and  sweeten  to  your  taste. 
Put  into  bottles,  cork  tightly,  wire  them  well,  and  lay  on  the 
side.     It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  forty-eight  hours. 


Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  three  pints  of  raspberries,  and  mix 
with  one  pint  of  the  best  white  vinegar  and  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar.  Simmer  in  a  jar  or  pitcher,  set  in  boiling  water  for  an 
hour,  skim  it,  and  bottle  when  cold.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  this 
into  half  a  pint  of  spring  water. 


Strawberry  Vinegar. 

Put  four  pounds  of  very  ripe  strawberries  into  three  quarts 
of  the  best  vinegar,  and  let  them  stand  three  or  four  days. 


104  DIXIE   COOKERY. 

Then  drain  the  vinegar  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  pour  on  to  the 
same  quantity  of  fruit.  Then  strain  again,  and  to  every 
pound  of  liquor  add  one  pound  of  sugar ;  bottle,  and  let  it 
stand  covered,  but  not  corked,  a  week.  Then  cork  tightly, 
and  set  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 


Muscadine  Wine. 

To  'One  gallon  of  grapes  mashed,  take  one  quart  of  cold 
water;  then  strain  immediately,  and  to  every  gallon  of  juice 
take  three  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Let  it  stand  in  a- jug  with 
the  cork  loose,  to  ferment.  When  it  has  done  fermenting, 
strain  again  through  flannel,  and  bottle  and  se^d. 


Ginger  Beer. 

Put  Tnto  a  vessel  two  gallons  of  boiling  water,  two  pounds 
of  common  white  sugar,  two  ounces  of  ginger  bruised,  and 
two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar  or  a  sliced  lemon.  Stir  them 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  let  it  stand  until  as  warm  as  new 
milk,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  yeast  poured  on  to 
a  piece  of  bread.  Cover  the  whole  over  with  a  cloth,  and  let 
it  stand  undisturbed  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  strain  it  and 
put  into  bottles,  only  filling  them  three-quarters  full.  Cork 
the  bottles  well,  and  tie  the  corks,  and  in  two  days,  in  warm 
weather,  it  will  be  fit  to  drink.  This  quantity  will  make 
thirty-six  bottles. 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

Mash  and  strain  the  berries,  put  on  the  juice  to  boil,  skim 
it  well,  and  to  every  gallon  of  juice  put  three  pounds  of  sugar 
and  a  quart  of  spirits ;  bruise  some  cloves  and  put  in,  and 
when  cool  bottle  it. 

Cherry  Cordial* 

Boil  and 'skim  the  juice,  and  to  every  gallon  of  it  take  two 
pounds  of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  a  little  water,  and 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  strain  it  and  mix  with  the  juice,  and 
to  this  quantity  add  half  a  pint  of  spirits. .  Bottle  when  cold. 


SYRUPS,    CREAMS,    ICES,    CORDIALS,    ETC.  105 


Quince  Cordial. 

* 

Grate  the  quinces  and  strain  them,  and  to  every  quart  of 
juice  put  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  spirits.  Boil,  strain, 
and  bottle  it. 

Blackberry  Wine. 

To  every  gallon  of  berries,  after  being  well  mashed,  a  quart 
of  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  strain, 
and  add  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  to  every  gallon  of  juice. 
Let  it  stand  until  it  is  done  fermenting,  for  three  or  four 
weeks,  with  the  bung  laid  on  loosely.  At  the  end  of  three  or 
four  weeks,  stop  it  tightly,  and  set  away  for  some  months,  and 
then  bottle  it.  Strawberry  wine  made  in  the  same  way, 
except  that  no  water  is  added  to  the  juice. 


Porter  Beer. 

Take  one  bottle  of  porter,  -five  bottles  of  water,  a  pint  of 
molasses  or  a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Make  a  strong  ginger 
tea  and  mix  all  well  together.  This  quantity  will  fill  seven 
bottles.  Put  three  or  four  raisins  in  each  bottle,  fill  them, 
cork  and  wire  them,  and  lay  on  their  sides  in  a  cool  place. 


Corn  Beer. 

Take  a  pint  of  corn,  boil  it  until  seffc,  and  add  to  it  a  gallon 
of  water  sweetened  with  a  pint  of  brown  sugar.  Cork  it 
tightly  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  put  into  it  a  small  quan- 
tity of  yeast  if  the  weather  is  cold.  In  warm  weather  omit 
the  yeast.  Add  a  few  roots  of  bruised  ginger,  and  a  few 
sliced  lemons.     The  same  corn  will  answer  for  a  year. 

When  you  pour  out  a  pitcherful  of  beer,  put  in  one  of 
sweetened  water. 


106  DIXIE    COOKERY. 


Quinces,  Peaches,  and  Apple  Ice-Cream. 

* 

Grate  some  apples  or  other  fruit  very  fine,  and  sweeten 
very  sweet,  and  freeze. 


Lemon  or  Orange  Ice-Cream. 

Strain  the  juice,  mix  it  with  the  sugar,  and  stir  slowly  int 
the  cream,  and  freeze  it. 


Strawberry  Ice- Cream. 


■ 


Mash  a  pint  of  berries,  and  strain  the  juice  into  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  sweeten  very  sweet,  and  freeze  it.  Or,  flavor  with 
the  syrup. 

Carolina  Ice-Cream. 

Make  a  thin  custard  of  a  quart  of  new  milk  and  three  well- 
beaten  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  whipped  separately.  Dis- 
solve a  neaping  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  in  cold  milk,  and 
stir  it  in  the  custard  while  it  is  scalding.  Let  the  custard 
simmer,  but  not  boil.  Sweeten  to  your  taste,  then  strain  it, 
and  add  the  flavoring  after  it  is  cold,  just  before  it  is  put  into 
the  freezer. 

Wilmington  Ice-Cream. 

Take  two  quarts  of  milk,  or  cream  if  you  have  it,  and  boil, 
and  thicken  it  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot.  Sweeten 
with  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  pour  the  whole  over  the 
beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Then  strain  it,  and  when  cold, 
add  the  flavoring.  If  you  wish  vanilla  flavoring,  boil  half  a 
bean  in  the  milk.  Corn-starch  will  take  the  place  of  arrow- 
root.    In  straining,  a  milk-strainer  is  sufficiently  close  to  use. 


SYRUPS,    CREAMS,    ICES,    CORDIALS,    ETC.  107 


Fruit  Ice-Cream. 

Mix  the  juice  of  the  fruit  with  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  the 
cream,  which  need  not  be  very  thick. 


Lemon-Ice  and  Fruit-Ices. 

To  a  quart  of  lemonade,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs 
cut  to  a  froth,  and  freeze  it.  Any  other  fruit  can  be  used, 
straining  the  juice,  and  sweetening  it  before  putting  in  the 
eggs. 

Rose-Coloring  for  Ices,  Jellies,  Creams,  etc. 

Take  a  pint  of  pokeberry-juice  that  has  been  well  strained, 
and  add  to  it  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  till  it  becomes  a 
jelly,  and  when  cold  put  it  in  a  jar  and  tie  it  close.  A  very 
small  quantity  will  color  ice-cream,  or  jelly,  or  cake-icing. 
Or,  you  may  mix  together  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cream  of 
tartar,  the  same  of  powdered  alum,  and  an  ounce  of  powdered 
cochineal,  with  a  saltspoonful  of  pearlash  or  soda,  and  four 
ounces  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  this  mixture  for  ten  minutes,  and 
when  cool,  bottle  and  cork  it. 


Sherbet. 

Take  nine  oranges  and  three  lemons.  Grate  off  the  yellow 
from  the  rinds,  and  put  into  a  gallon  of  water,  with  three 
pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  and  boil  to  a  candy-height.  Then  take 
it  from  the  fire  and  add  the  pulp  of  the  oranges  and  lemons, 
and  keep  stirring  it  until  almost  cold,  it  is  then  ready  to 
freeze. 


108  DIXIE   COOKERY. 

MISCELLANEOUS  EECEIPTS. 

Coffee. 

Roast  it  quickly  till  it  is  a  light-brown  color,  stirring  it 
constantly,  and  when  half  cold  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs  to  every  two .  pounds  of  coffee.  Let  the  coffee  get 
quite  cold  and  dry,  and  £ut  away  in  a  tight  box  for  use. 
When  you  are  ready  to  boil  it,  grind  and  mix  with  a  little  cold 
water,  allowing  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  coffee,  and  a  tea- 
cup of  boiling  water  to  every  person.  Let  it  boil  rapidly  for 
half  an  hour,  in  a  covered  tin  pot,  stirring  the  coffee  from'the 
sides  occasionally,  or  it  will  have  a  bitter  taste.  Put  in  a 
teacupful  of  cold  water  to  settle  it,  and  after  standing  for  five 
or  six  minutes,  pour  it  off  carefully  into  another  coffee-pot, 
and  send  to  table. 

To  make  biggin  coffee,  take  two  cupfuls  of  ground  coffee  to 
six  of  boiling  water.  Scald  the  biggin,  put  in  the  coffee,  pour 
over  the  water,  shut  down  the  lid,  and  when  the  coffee  has  run 
through  all  the  strainers,  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 


Blockade  Coffee. 


Scald  some  rye  in  boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
twenty  minutes  until  it  is  slightly  soft.  Then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and  parch  as  brown  as 
coffee.  To  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  ground  rye  take  one 
tablespoonful  of  coffee,  or  a  saltspoonful  of  the  essence  of 
coffee,  and  put  into  a  tin  pot,  and  pour  over  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  for  more  than  an  hour.  Let  it 
settle  and  pour  off,  and  you  will  find  it  quite  clear  without 
eggs,  and  very  good.  Okra  seeds  parched  and  ground,  and 
mixed  with  coffee,  in  the  proportion  of  one-fourth  coffee  to  three- 
fourths  of  okra,  is  a  very  nice  beverage,  and  a  good  substitute 
for  coffee. 

Tea. 

Those  persons  who  dislike  black  tea  and  cannot  take  green, 
will  find  a  mixture  of  the  two  in  equal  proportions,  an  agree- 
able beverage. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  109 


Egg-Nogg. 

Beat  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  stir 
into  the  j^olks  sufficient  powdered  loaf-sugar  to  make  it  pleas- 
antly sweet,  and  beat  them  till  very  light,  and  flavor  with  a 
little  lemon-juice  and  nutmeg.  Beat  in  six  tablespoonfals  of 
brandy.  Boil  a  quart  of  thin  cream  or  new  milk.  Fill  the 
goblets  half  full  of  the  sugar  and  eggs,  after  stirring  in  the 
beaten  whites  just  before  putting  into  the  glasses.  Put  a 
teaspoon  in  each  goblet,  and  place  them  on  a  waiter  so  they 
can  be  distributed  immediately  after  the  milk  is  poured  in. 
Pour  the  boiling  milk  into  a  pitcher,  and  fill  up  the  goblets 
with  it  as  you  hand  them  around.  Stir  the  milk  and  egg  well 
together  before  drinking. 


Roman  Punch. 

Grate  the  yellow  rinds  of  two  lemons  and  one  orange  on  a 
pound  of  sugar ;  squeeze  over  the  juice,  and  let  it  stand  till 
well  dissolved.  Strain,  and  add  half  a  bottle  of  champagne 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  It  is  nice  frozen,  but 
may  be  served  without  anything  else  than  a  little  finely 
broken  ice. 


Lemon  Juice  and  Peel  to  keep. 

Mix  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar  with  a  pint  of  juice, 
boil  and  skim  it,  and  bottle,  sealing  well.  Pare  off  the  yellow 
part  of  the  rinds  of  lemons,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and.drop  in 
brandy,  whick  will  give  a  nice  flavoring  to  sauces,  etc.  Or, 
rub  off  the  yellow  rind  on  lumps  of  sugar,  and  put  in  a  glass 
jar,  and  cork  well,  for  flavoring  cakes. 


Cottage  Cheese. 

Take  a  pan  of  clabber,  pour  off  the  whey,  and  put  the 

clabber  into  a  pointed  muslin  bag  to  drain.     Let  it  drain 

twelve  hours  ;  then  put  the  curd  into  a  dish,  and  work  it,  till 

very  smooth,  with  a  spoon,  pouring  over  some  rich  cream 

10 


110  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

until  of  the  consistency  of  thin  mush.  Season  with  salt  to 
your  taste,  and  set  in  a  dairy  or  some  cool  place  until  tea-time. 
Serve  in  a  glass  or  china  dish,  and  sprinkle  a  little  pepper 
over  the  top.     It  is  also  nice  for  breakfast  in  warm  weather. 


To  prevent  Preserves  from  Graining. 

Mix  with  them  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  to  every 
gallon  of  preserves. 


Milk. 


In  warm  weather,  when  milk  sours  soon,  put  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  to  every  four  gallons  before  straining.  It 
will  improve  the  qualit}',  and  increase  the  quantity  of  butter. 
It  is  recommended  by  the  owner  of  a  fine  dairy. 


Brandy  Peaches. 

Take  fresh  clingstones,  and  drop  them  for  a  minute  in 
boiling  lye.  Remove  from  the  lye  with  a  perforated  ladle,  and 
drop  in  a  bucket  of  cold  water.  Wipe  with  a  rough  towel  to 
remove  the  skin,  and  drop  into  a  syrup  prepared  in  the  mean- 
time of  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Let 
them  cook  fifteen  minutes,  and  take  from  the  syrup,  and  put 
on  dishes  to  cool.*  Boil  the  s^yrup  down  to  half,  and  put  an 
equal  part  of  old  peach  brandy,  or  French  brandy,  if  you 
wish  them  very  strong.     They  will  be  nicer  with  less  brandy. 


Grapes  in  Brandy. 

Put  some  close  bunches  of  grapes,  not  too  ripe,  in  a  jar, 
pricking  each  one  with  a  needle.  Fill  up  the  jar  with  equal 
quantities  of  loaf-sugar  syrup  and  French  brandy.  Make  the 
syrup  by  taking  half  the  weight  of  the  grapes  in  sugar,  and 
water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  and  skim  it  well. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  Ill 


Rose  Brandy  for  flavoring. 

Nearly  fill  a  glass  jar  with  rose  leaves,  and  pour  over  French 
brandy  enough  to  fill  it  quite  up.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  and  pour  into  a  thin  muslin  and  press  the  leaves  well. 
Return  the  strained  liquid  to  the  jar,  and  put  in  fresh  leaves, 
and  repeat  this  every  day  until  you  have  a  strong  preparation. 
It  is  nice  for  cakes. 

To  dry  Peaches. 

Pare  and  slice  them  very  thin.  Their  nicety  and  fine  color 
will  depend  upon  drying  quickly,  and  the  thinner  and  smaller 
the  slices,  the  sooner  they  will  be  ready  to  put  up.  Dry  on 
poplar  boards  with  a  rim  around  the  edge,  and  never  leave 
them  out  after  sunset.  A  still  nicer  way  is  to  make  a  syrup 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  and  when 
it  has  boiled,  drop  in  the  sliced  peaches  and  cook  until  half 
done.  Remove  from  the  syrup  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and 
put  on  dishes  in  the  sun  until  partly  dry,  and  then  on  boards 
until  perfectly  dry.     These  peaches  make  nice  pies  in  winter. 


To  dry  Cherries  and  Damsons. 

Stone  the  cherries,  and  press  off  the  juice  and  dry  perfectly. 
They  are  nice  in  fruit  cake.  Wash  damsons,  and  put  on  with 
very  little  water  to  stew.  Cook  them  until  they  are  very  thick 
and  the  juice  nearly  all  evaporated.  Be  careful  not  to  scorch 
them.  When  they  are  thick,  remove  as  many  of  the  stones  as 
possible  with  a  spoon.  Spread  them  on  dishes  and  dry  in  thin 
cakes  until  partly  dry.  Then  remove  them  to  waiters  with 
towels  under  them  and  dry  perfectly.  Any  seed  remaining 
after  they  are  put  on  dishes  can  be  easily  picked  out.  They 
are  very  nice  in  fruit  cake  cut  up  aTraisins,  or  stewed  for  pies 
or  sauce,  and  will  keep  for  years  in  paper  bags,  if  well  sunned 
occasionally. 

Rennet. 

Rub  the  salt  from  it  and  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces,  and  put 
into  a  bottle  and  fill  up  with  good  Madeira  wine. 


112  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

A  substitute  for  rennet  is  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  to  a  quart  of  milk.  A  tablespoonful  of  rennet  wine 
is  sufficient  for  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  must  be  put  in  whilst 
the  milk  is  lukewarim 


To  make  Pickle-Lily. 

Scald  some  vinegar,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves, 
mace,  and  allspice,  and  when  highly  seasoned  and  cold,  pour 
into  jars.  Drop  into  this  vinegar  as  they  ripen,  small  cucum- 
bers, tender  radish-pods,  young  beans,  and  very  small  onions. 
Cork  close. 

Baked  Chicken  Pudding. 

Cut  up,  and  stew  two  young  chickens  until  half  cooked  ;  then 
take  them  out  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Reserve  the  gravy  to 
serve  up  separately.  Have  ready  a  well-beaten  batter  of  six 
eggs,  a  quart  of  milk,  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt,  and 
fill  up  a  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  chicken  and  batter,  hav- 
ing a  layer  of  batter  on  the  top.  Bake  until  brown.  Break  an 
egg  into  the  gravy,  letitboil,  and  pour  into  a  sauce-boat  and 
serve  with  the  pudding. 


Mariners1  Soup. 

Boil  the  meat  down  to  a  thick  jelly,  seasoning  highly  with 
salt,  wine,  and  spices,  and  spread  on  dishes  a  fourth  of  an  inch 
thick.  When  cold,  cut  in  square  inches  and  dry  in  the  sun, 
and  keep  in  a  tight  glass  or  hermetically  sealed  ware  cans. 
When  you  use  them,  put  a  quart  of  boiling  water  to  one  or  two 
cakes,  and  add  tomatoes  and  other  vegetables,  and  thicken 
with  brown  flour. 


To  remove  white  spots  from  Furniture. 

Rub  the  spots  with  pulverized  pumice-stone  wet  with  water, 
and  then  with  buckskin  moistened  with  sweet  oil ;  or,  put  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  spot,  and  hold  a  warm  iron  over  it  and 
rub  with  an  oiled  cloth. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  113 


To  render  cloth  water-proof. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  turpentine  and  one  pound  of  litharge  in 
two  or  three  pints  of  linseed  oil.  The  articles  to  be  brushed 
over  with  this  mixture  and  dried  in  the  sun. 


To  clean  Marble. 

Take  two  parts  of  soda,  one  part  of  pumice-stone,  and  one 
part  of  finely-powdered  chalk,  and  sift  through  a  fine  sieve  and 
mix  with  water.  Rub  over  the  marble,  and  wash  off  with  soap 
and  water. 

To  clean  Paint. 

Squeeze  flannel  nearly  dry  out  of  warm  water,  and  dip  in 
whiting  and  apply.  "With  a  gentle  rubbing  it  will  remove 
grease  and  other  stains.  Wash  in  warm  water  and  rub  dry 
with  a  soft  cloth. 

To  clean  Gold. 

Wash  in  warm  water,  with  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  sal- volatile. 

To  make  old  Gilt  Frames  look  like  Bronze. 

Put  on  lightly  one  or  two  coats  of  asphaltum  with  a  soft 
brush,  and  then  if  not  bright  it  can  be  varnished  over  with 
cabinet-makers'  varnish. 


Very  fine  Whitewash. 

Take  one  peck  of  unslaked  lime  (in  the  rock)  and  put  into 
a  tub,  which  must  be  sunk  in  the  ground  or  it  will  burst.  Pour 
over  boiling  water  until  quite  a  thin  mixture,  and  cover  up  the 
tub  with  a  thick  cloth  to  keep  in  the  steam.  Make  a  thin  paste 
of  a  quart  of  flour  and  some  water,  straining  it  to  remove  all 
the  lumps,  and  stir  into  the  lime  slowly  after  it  has  become 
slack.  Add  a  pound  of  white  sugar  and  a  handful  of  salt  and 
10* 


114  DIXIE    COOKERY. 

it  is  ready  for  use.  It  must  not  be  as  thick  as  paint,  and  each 
coat  must  be  quite  dry  before  the  other  goes  on.  It  will  ad- 
here very  well  to  hard  plastering. 


Good  Whitewash. 

To  one  bushel  of  lime  take  seven  pounds  of  whiting  and 
three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  with  four  pounds  of  salt.  Boil 
well  together,  aud  after  standing  a  few  hours  it  assumes  a 
beautiful  appearance  and  is  ready  for  use.  Put  on  with  a  brush, 
and  hot. 

To  clean  Glass  Windows. 

Rub  with  a  soft  cloth  and  water,  and  rub  dry  and  polish 
with  newspaper.     Lamp-shades  the  same  way. 


To  whiten  Lard. 

To  twelve  gallons  of  lard  add  a  pint  of  lye.  Put  the  lye  in 
when  the  the  lard  is  first  put  on.  When  the  cracklings  are  a 
light-brown  the  lard  is  done.  Strain  through  a  thin  cloth  put 
inside  of  a  colander. 


To  clarify  Tallow  and  harden  it. 

Take  two  pounds  of  alum  to  every  twenty  pounds  of  tallow. 
Dissolve  it  in  water  and  put  in  a  pint  of  lye,  and  put  in  the 
tallow  before  the  water  gets  hot.  Boil  a  whole  day,  and  next 
day  melt  and  strain  the  tallow. 


To  preserve  Butter  for  Winter. 

Take  two  ounces  of  saltpetre  to  every  gallon  of  water.  Make 
a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  boil  until  it  is  as  clear  as  water  and 
strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg.  Work  the  butter  well,  and 
make  up  into  balls  of  two  or  three  pounds  each,  and  pour  the 
brine  over  and  cover  well.     It  will  keep  for  months. 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  115 


Cement  for  Bottles. 

Equal  parts  of  rosin  and  brick-dust  pounded  fine,  and  some 
beeswax,  stewed  together.  Or,  melted  pitch  and  rosin,  and  dip 
in  cold  water  after  sealing.  Or,  equal  parts  of  rosin  and  Span- 
ish brown,  and  half  the  quantity  of  beeswax ;  melt  all  together. 


CONTENTS 


SOUPS. 


Beef  Soup 
Mock  Turtle  Soup 
Squirrel  Soup 
Oyster  Soup 
Green  Pea  Soup 
Ochra  Soup  . 
Vegetable  Soup 
Vermicelli  Soup    . 
Noodle  Soup     . 


FISH. 
Boiled  Rock  Fish     . 
Boiled  Salt  Shad  or  Mackerel 
Boiled  Salt  Salmon 
Baked  Shad  . 
Stewed  Oysters        . 
Scolloped  Oysters 
Fried  Oysters   . 
Oyster  Pie     .       .       . 
Oyster  Pie  Plain 
Pickled  Oysters    .       . 
Stewed  Terrapins     . 
Lobster  Salad 
Fried  Clams     . 


EGGS. 


Omelet       .... 

Oyster  Omelet      .       • 
Poached  Eggs  .       .       * 
Boiled  Eggs  .       . 

Scrambled  Eggs       ,       • 
Eggs  and  Potatoes      . 
Eggs  and  Pice  .       . 

Eggs  and  Cheese  . 

Eggs  and  Beef 
Eggs  preserved  for  Winter  Use 


Page. 
5 
5 
6 
6 
6 
7 
7 
7 
8 


SAUCES. 


Drawn  Butter  .  .  •  . 
Egg  Sauce  .... 
Celery  Sauce  .... 
Celery  Sauce  for  Cold  Turkey 
Oyster  Sauce  .... 
Caper  Sauce 

Tomato  Sauce  .... 
Mint  Sauce   .... 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  &c 
Boiled  Turkey  or  Pair  of  Fowls 
Boiled  Beef  Tongue 
Corned  Beef  . 
Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton 
Boiled  Tripe  . 
Boiled  Pigs' Feet 
Boiled  Ham  . 
Roast  Pig 

Roast  Leg  of  Pork  . 
Roast  Beef    . 
Roast  Mutton  .       . 
Roast  Turkey 
Roast  Goose      .       . 
Roast  Duck  . 
Roast  Chicken  . 

Baked  Beefs  Heart 
Beef  a  la  mode        . 
Beef  Steak    . 
French  Beef  Steak 
Fried  Liver  .       . 
Fried  Veal 
Veal  Cutlets 
Mutton  Chops 
Force  Meat  Balls 
Baked  Fowls    . 
Fricaseed  Chickens 
Broiled  Chickens     . 

117 


Pago. 
14 

11 
15 
15 
15 
15 
16 
1G 


118 


CONTENTS. 


Fried  Chickens     . 
Chicken  Pie 
Chicken  Pie  with  Rice 
Chicken  Salad  , 

Venison  Steak 
Eoast  Venison 
Roast  Hare   . 
Stewed  Rabbit 
Wild  Ducks  . 
Squirrel  Fricassee 
Fried  Squirrel 
Squirrel  Pie 
Pigeon  Pie 
Broiled  Partridge 
Baked  Partridge 
Partridge  Pie   .       .       . 
Hash-Turkey  and  Chickens 
Hash-Beef         .       .       , 
Hash  Baked         .       , 
Pigs'  Feet  Stewed   . 
Pigs'  Feet  Fried  . 
Tripe  Cooked    .       . 
Sausage  Meat       .       . 
Sausage,  Bologna    . 
Pudding,  Liver     .       . 
Scrapple    .... 
Pudding,  White  (Suet) 
Breakfast  Relish 
Pickled  Corned  Beef    . 
Pickled  Beef's  Liver 
Cured  Beef,  Tongue,  &c 

VEGETABLES 


Asparagus 
Beans  .       . 

Beans,  Lima     .       . 
Boiled  Cabbage    , 
Stuffed  Cabbage 
Slaw,  Cold 
Slaw,  Warm     .       . 
Cucumbers  . 

Celery        .       .       . 
Corn      .       .       . 
Corn  Oysters     .       . 
Green  Corn  Pudding 
Beets         .       .       • 
Egg-Plant     .     '  . 
Egg-Plant,  Baked    . 
Hominy         ,       . 
Onions      •       •       • 


32 
32 
32 
32 
33 
33 
33 
34 
34 
34 
34 
34 
35 
35 
35 
35 
36 


Salsify 

Lettuce  .... 
Ochra  .       .       . 

Irish  Potatoes,  Boiled     . 
Irish  Potatoes,  Stewed 
Irish  Potatoes,  Fried      , , 
Sweet  Potatoes    . 
Tomatoes  .       .       . 

Tomatoes  for  Winter  Use 
Spiuach  .... 
Green  Peas  .       . 

Cauliflower       .       .       . 
Squashes       .        .       . 
Winter  Squash         .       . 
Parsnips        .       . 
Turnips      .... 
Boiled  Rice  .       . 

Macaroni  .       .       • 


36 


39 


PICKLES  AND  CATCHUPS. 

Mustard  Pickle  ....  40 
Carolina  Yellow  Pickle  .  .  40 
Virginia  Yellow  Pickle  .        .      40 

Mango  Pickle  ....  41 
Bell  Pepper  Pickle  ...     41 

Peach  Mango  Pickle  ...  42 
Cucumber  Pickle  ....  42 
Cherry  Pickles  ....  42 
Cabbage  Pickles  .  .  .  .43 
Nasturtion  Pickles      ...  43 

Onion  Pickles  .       .        .       .43 

Tomato  Pickles,  Ripe,  Green  and 

Mango  .  .  .  .  43, 44 
Walnut  Pickles,  Black  and  White  44 
Sweet  Pickled  Peaches  .       .     45 

Spiced  Peaches  .  .  .  .45 
Cherry  or  Damson  Sauce  for  Meats  45 
Water-Melon  Sweet  Pickle  .  45 
Catchup,  White  Walnut  .  .  46 
Catchup,  Cucumber  ...  46 
Catchup,  Tomato     ....     46 

BREAD,  PASTRY,  PUDDINGS,  &C 


Yeast  (very  fine)      .       . 
Yeast,  without  Hops   . 
Potato  Rolls 
Rolls  and  Bread,  superior 


Milk  Biscuit 48 


CONTENTS. 


119 


Plain  Biscuit 

Crackers  .... 

Muffins,  Flour      .       .       . 
Muffins,  Rice  and  Flour         . 
Muffins,  Egg         .        ,       . 
Muffins,  Rice,  Corn         .       . 
Muffins,  Corn,  very  fine     • 
Bread,  St.  Charles  .       , 

Bread,  Light  Corn       .       . 
Crisp  Flour  or  Corn-Meal 
Sally  Lunn  (very  fine)         . 
Sally  Lunn,  Virginia       .       . 
Bread,  Brown 

Rolls,  Carolina         .       .       , 
Velvet  Cakes        .       ,       . 
Flannel  Cakes  .       .       . 

Light  Bread  Batter  Cakes 
Buckwheat  Cakes  ,       , 

Waffles  .... 

Soaked  Crackers  for  Tea 
Pancakes       .... 
Corn  Gruel  Batter  Cakes 
Corn  Meal  Batter  Cakes     .  ' 

Fritters 

Wafers,  Plain  and  Corn-Meal 
General  Washington's   Breakfast 

Cakes      .... 
French  Rolls  or  Twist    . 
Milk  Toast    .... 


Egg  Toast         .       . 
Butter  Toast 
Rusk  .       . 

Puff  Paste     . 
Mince  Pies        .       .       . 
Mince  Pies  without  Meat  , 
Rhubarb  Pie     .       .       . 
Apple  and  Peach  Pie  . 

Apple  Pie  without  Apples 
Sweet  Potato  Pie 
Icing  for  Pies    .        .       . 
Apple  Meringues         .       , 
Apples  Stewed  and  Baked 
Apple  Charlotte  .       , 

Apple  Float      .       .       . 
Floating  Island    .       .       . 
Trifle  .... 

Charlotte  Russe   .       . 
Flummery         .       .       . 
Blanc  Mange" 
Blanc  Mange,  Arrowroot 
Omelette  Souffle  .       .       < 


Custards,  Arrowroot,  baked  in  cups  60 

Custard,  Cold        ....  60 

Custard,  Boiled        ....  61 

Custard,  Wine      ....  61 

Custard,  Plain  Boiled      ...  61 

Whips            62 

Whips,  Strawberry  .       .       .       .62 

Syllabub 62 

Ambrosia          .....  62 

Pudding,  Plum     ...        .        .  62 

Pudding,  Augusta    ....  63 

Pudding,  Sponge  Cake        .       .  63 

Pudding,  Baked  Rice      ...  63 

Pudding,  Balloon        ...  64 

Pudding,  Baked  Apple  or  Quince  C4 

Pudding,  Simple  Bread       .       .  64 

Pudding,  Dried  Fruit      ...  64 

Pudding,  Cream           ...  65 

Pudding,  Corn-Meal  without  Eggs  65 

Pudding,  Eve's     ....  65 

Pudding,  Tapioca     ....  65 

Pudding,  Stale  Bread          .       .  66 

Pudding,  Sunderland       ...  60 

Pudding,  Montgomery        .       .  66 

Pudding,  Quaker      ....  66 

Sauce  for  Puddings      ...  66 

Sauce,  Cream 67 

Sauce,  Brandy      .       .       .       .67 

Pudding,  Lemon      ....  67 

Pudding,  Irish  Potato         .       .  67 

Pudding,  Apple  (very  fine)    .        .  67 

Pudding,  Marlborough        .       .  68 

Dauphins          .....  68 

Pudding,  Cocoanut      ...  68 

Pudding,  Cocoanut  Imitation        .  68 

Pudding,  Corn-Meal  in  Paste    .  69 

Pudding,  Orange      ....  69 

Tarts,  Lemon       ....  69 

Pudding,  Cottage  Potato       .       .  69 

Pudding,  Sweet  Potato       .       .  70 

Pudding,  Transparent     ...  70 

Pudding,  Citron           ...  70 
Custard,  Molasses    ...       .71 

Pudding,  Hungary       ...  71 

Pudding,  Moultrie   ....  71 

Pudding,  Ground  Rice        .       .  71 

Pudding,  Corn-Starch     ...  72 

Pudding,  Bread    ....  72 

Pudding,  Cheese      ....  73 

Pudding,  Boiled  Peach       .       .  73 


120 


CONTENTS. 


CAKES. 


Cake,  Fruit 73 

Cake,  Black 74 

Cake,  Clove          ....  74 

Cake,  Bread 75 

Cake,  Cream         ....  75 

Cake,  Cheese 75 

Cake,  Composition      ...  75 

Cup  Cake 75 

Cake,  Cup,  without  Eggs    .       .  76 

Wafers 76,78 

Cake,  Loaf 76 

Cake,  Pint 76 

Cake,  Tea 77 

Cake,  Tea,  New  Orleans        .       .  77 

Cake,  Shrewsbury       ...  77 

Wonders 77 

Bunns 77 

Bunns,  Spanish  and  French  .        77,  81 

Biscuit,  Sugar       ....  78 
Doughnuts        .       .       .       .        78, 81 

Cake,  Florida       ....  78 

Cake,  Frontier         ....  78 

Cake,  Pound,  Gingerbread         .  79 

Light  Gingerbread  ....  79 

Light  Gingerbread,  Soft  and  Hard  79 

Ginger  Nuts 79 

Diet  Bread 80 

Cake,  Confederate   ...       .80 

Cake,  New  Year  ....  80 

Cake,  Ladies' 80 

Cake,  Scotch         ....  81 

Apees 81 

Jumbles,  Clay      ....  82 

Jumbles,  Jackson    ....  82 

Jumbles,  Davis     ....  82 

Jumbles,  North  Carolina       .       .  82 

Jumbles,  Family         ...  82 

Macaroons        .....  83 

Cake,  Norfolk  Tea       ...  83 
Cake,  Palmetto        .        .       .        .83 

Cake,  Clay 84 

Cake,  Pound     .        .        .       .       84, 87 

Cake,  Plain  White       ...  84 

Cake,  Pearl 84 

Cake,  Richmond          ...  84 

Cake,  Cottage 85 

Cake,  Almond      ....  85 

Cake,  Sponge            ....  86 

Cake,  Sponge,  Virginia      .       •  80 


Cake,  Sponge,  Cream      . 

88 

Cake,  Sponge,  Rice-Flour  . 

86 

Cake,  Sponge,  Boiled      . 

87 

Cake,  Currant  and  Almond 

87 

Cake,  Jelly 

87 

Cake,  Golden       .... 

88 

Crullers      ....... 

88 

Kisses 

88 

Boiled  Icing  for  Cakes    .        . 

83 

Cold  Icing  for  Cakes    . 

89 

Orange  Icing  for  Orange-Drops     . 

89 

PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  &C. 

Crab-Apples 

90 

Pine- Apple  Marmalade 

90 

Pine-Apple 

90 

Apples 

90 

Green  Gage  Plum    .... 

91 

Cherries         ..... 

91 

Apiicots 

91 

Green  Lemon       .... 

91 

Green  Pepper           .... 

92 

Green  Tomatoes 

92 

Water-Melon  Rinds 

92 

Blackberry  Jam            .       . 

92 

Orange  Marmalade 

93 

Peaches  

93 

Quinces 

94 

Pears 

94 

Strawberries 

94 

Cranberries    .        .        .       . 

95 

Ripe  Fox-Grape  Jam 

95 

Clarified  Sugar  for  Sweetmeats 

95 

Jelly,  Blackberry     .... 

95 

Jelly,  Apple         .... 

96 

Jelly,  Currant           .... 

95 

Jelly,  Gelatine      .... 

96 

Jelly,  CalPs-Foot     . 

97 

Jelly,  Pig's-Foot 

97 

Jelly,  Green  Fox-Grape 

97 

Jelly,  Isinglass     .... 

97 

Jelly,  Gelatine,  without  boiling    . 

98 

Jelly,  Orange       .... 

98 

Jelly,  Bread 

99 

Conserved  Beaches      .        .       . 

98 

Glass-Melon  Preserves    , 

98 

SYRUPS,  CREAMS,  CORDIALS,  &c. 
Italian  Cream  99 

Lemon  or  Orange  Cream  .         99 

Almond  Cream        ....    100 


CONTENTS. 

121 

Imitation  Cream 

100 

Tea 

108 

Swiss  Cream 

100 

Egg-Nogg 

109 

Pine-Apple  Cream       .       .       . 

100 

Roman  Punch 

109 

Raspberry  Cream     . 

101 

Lemon  Juice  and  Peeling,  to  keep 

109 

Strawberry  Cream       .        . 

101 

Cottage  Cheese        . 

109 

Preserved  Cream     . 

101 

To  keep  Preserves  from  graining 

110 

Syrup,  Orange      .... 

101 

Milk 

110 

Syrup,  Lemon          .       .       .        . 

101 

Brandy  Peaches  .... 

no 

Lemon  Juice        .... 

102 

Brandy  Grapes         . 

110 

Syrup,  Pine-Apple 

102 

Rose  Brandy  for  flavoring  . 

in 

Syrup,  Strawberry 

102 

To  dry  Peaches        .... 

in 

Mountain  Nectar      .       .        .       . 

102 

To  dry  Cherries  and  Damsons    . 

in 

Strawberry  or  Blackberry  Acid 

103 

Rennet 

in 

Pine-Apple  Cider     .... 

103 

Pickle-Lily 

in 

Raspberry  Vinegar 

103 

Baked  Chicken  Pudding 

112 

Strawberry  Vinegar 

103 

Mariner's  Soup     .... 

112 

Muscadine  Wine 

104 

To  remove  White  Spots  from  Fur- 

Ginger Beer 

104 

niture      

112 

Porter  Beer          .... 

105 

To  render  Cloth  Water-proof 

113 

Corn  Beer 

105 

To  clean  Marble  .... 

113 

Blackberry  Cordial 

104 

To  clean  Paint         .... 

113 

Cherry  Cordial         .... 

104 

To  clean  Gold      .... 

113 

Quince  Cordial     .... 

105 

To  bronze  old  Gilt  Frames    . 

113 

Blackberry  Wine      .... 

105 

Whitewash           .... 

113 

Ice-Creams            .... 

108 

To  clean  Glass  Windows 

114 

Rose  Coloring  for  Ices,  Jellies,  &c. 

107 

To  whiten  Lard    .... 

114 

Sherbet 

107 

To  clarify  and  harden  Tallow 

114 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

To  preserve  Butter  for  Winter  Use 

114 

Cement  for  Bottles      . 

115 

Coffee 

108 

Blockade  Coffee   .... 

108 

D-  4  V^J 


5  acv-aSl  *    iHfcj 


m 


J-      V? 


" 


\>      s 


\  4 


.#' 


V 

7 


v*  ,4 


«£ 


^ 


^0 


^ 


J 


0 

OOBBS    BROTHIRSA 
LIBRARY  BINDING  CO    INC  I 

.IF       •« 


