TX  719 
1836 


8    ■ 


mm 


mmMM 


DOMESTIC 


FRENCH     COOKERY, 


TRANSLATED  FROM  SULPICE  BARUEL 


BY    MISS    LESLIE, 
AUTHOR   OF   "SEVENTY-FIVE  RECEIPTS,"  &C. 


FOURTH    EDITION. 


EDUatreljj&ia: 
CAREY  &  HART— CHESTNUT  STREET. 

1336. 


irt 


I 


Entered  according  to  the  Act  of  Congress,  the  25th  day  of 

October,  1832,  by 

E.  L,  Carey  &  A.  Hart, 

in  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  Eastern  Dis- 
trict of  Pennsylvania. 

pfJfCJL 

11  &1h3 


STEREOTYPED  BY  J.  HOWE. 


/  <£<£- 


PREFACE. 


7o 


The  design  of  the  following  little  book  is  to 
furnish  receipts  for  a  select  variety  of  French 
dishes,  explained  and  described  in  such  a  manner 
as  to  make  them  intelligible  to  American  cooks, 
and  practicable  with  American  utensils  and  Amer- 
ican fuel.  Those  that  (according  to  the  original 
work)  cannot  be  prepared  without  an  unusual  and 
foreign  apparatus  have  been  omitted ;  and  also 
such  as  can  only  be  accomplished  by  the  consum- 
mate skill  and  long  practice  of  native  French 
cooks. 

Many  dishes  have  been  left  out,  as  useless  in  a 
country  where  provisions  are  abundant.  On  this 
side  of  the  Atlantic  all  persons  in  respectable  life 
can  obtain  better  articles  of  food  than  sheeps' 
tails,  calves'  ears,  &c.  and  the  preparation  of 
these  articles  (according  to  the  European  re- 
ceipts) is  too  tedious  and  complicated  to  be  of  any 
use  to  the  indigent,  or  to  those  who  can  spare  but 
little  time  for  their  cookery. 

Also,  the  translator  has  inserted  no  receipts 
which  contain  nothing  different  from  the  usual 
American  mode  of  preparing  the  same  dishes. 

Most  of  the  French  Cookery  Books  introduced 
into  this  country  have  failed  in  their  object,  from 
the  evident  deficiency  of  the  translators  in  a  com- 


IV  PREFACE. 

petent  knowledge  of  the  technical  terms  of cookery 
and  from  the  multitude  of  French  words  inter- 
spersed through  the  directions,  and  which  cannot, 
in  general,  be  comprehended  without  an  incessant 
and  troublesome  reference  to  the  glossary. 

The  translator  of  the  following  pages  has  en- 
deavored, according  to  the  best  of  her  ability,  to 
avoid  these  defects,  and  has  aimed  at  making  a 
book  of  practical  utility  to  all  those  who  may 
have  a  desire  to  introduce  occasionally  at  their 
tables  good  specimens  of  the  French  culinary  art. 

From  these  receipts  she  believes  that  many 
advantageous  hints  may  be  taken  for  improve- 
ments in  American  cookery;  and  she  hopes  that, 
upon  trial,  this  little  work  may  be  found  equally 
useful  in  private  families,  hotels,  and  boarding- 
houses, 

Philadelphia,  September,  1832. 


CONTENTS. 


SOUPS. 

Beef  Soup rzgeU 

Consomme,  or  Jelly  Soup *4 

Pease  Soup • 

Maccaroni  Soup 1  ' 

Chestnut  Soup ™ 

Almond  Soup 

Lobster  Soup 1  ' 

Oyster  Soup . b 

Green  Peas  Soup * 

GRAVIES,  OR  ESSENCES. 

17 
Brown  Gravy 

White  Gravy *• 

Essence  of  Game "' 

To  Clarify  Gravies  or  Essences 1° 

Veloute,  or  Velvet  Essence ib- 

SAUCES,  &c. 

19 
Bechamel 

Another  Bechamel 

Drawn  Butter *b' 

Melted  Butter,  another  way *" 

Cold  Sauce  for  Fish *• 

Sauce  for  Vegetables lb- 

Pungent  Sauce,  or  Sauce  Piquante •  •  ** 

Anchovy  Sauce ' 

Curry  Sauce ■ *J 

Tomata  Sauce x' 

Cucumber  Sauce ' 

Bread  Sauce 

Sauce  Robert "      ' 

Shalot  or  Onion  Sauce 

Universal  Sauce 

Lobster  Sauce 

Spinach  for  coloring  Green 

Garlic  Butter lb 

A2 


VI  CONTENTS. 

Hazlenut  Butter 24 

Larding lb. 

MEATS. 

Veal  a  la  Mode 29 

Veal  Cutlets ib. 

Blanquette,  or  Fricassee  of  Veal 30 

Godiveau , ib- 

Calves'  Liver  baked ib. 

Calves'  Liver  fried 31 

Veal  Kidneys ib. 

Grillades ib. 

Liver  Cake 32 

Sirloin  of  Beef. ib. 

Stewed  Beef ib. 

Beef  Steaks 33 

Beef  a  la  Mode ib. 

Roasted  Ham 34 

Fried  Ham  with  Tomatas 35 

Roasted  Tongue ib. 

Baked  Tongue 36 

Potted  Tongue ib. 

Leg  of  Mutton  with  Oysters 37 

Cutlets  a  la  Maintenon ib. 

Pork  Cutlets ib. 

Larded  Rabbit 38 

Rabbits  in  Papers ib. 

Pilau ? ib. 

Veal  Sweetbreads 39 

GAME  AND  POULTRY. 

A  Salmi 43 

Cold  Salmi ib. 

Ragooed  Livers 44 

A  fine  Hash ib. 

Marinade  of  Fowls ib. 

Fricassee  of  Fowls 45 

Fowls  with  Tarragon io. 

A  stewed  Fowl 46 

Chickens  in  Jelly ib. 

Pulled  Chickens 47 

Stewed  Turkey,  or  Turkey  en  Daube -  .  48 

Roasted  Turkey. ...  1 ib. 


CONTENTS.  Vii 

Potted  Goose 49 

Ducks  with  Turnips 50 

A  Duck  with  Olives ib. 

A  Duck  with  Peas ib. 

Turkey  Puddings 51 

Baked  Pigeons,  or  Pigeons  a  la  Crapaudine ib. 

Broiled  Pigeons. 52 

Pigeons  Pear-fashion  (Pigeons  au  poire) ib. 

Pigeons  with  Peas ib. 

Roasted  Partridges 53 

Partridges  with  Cabbage ib. 

A  Partridge  Pie ib. 

Roasted  Pheasants 54 

Broiled  Quails 55 

Roasted  Plovers ib. 

FISH. 

Stewed  Salmon  .' 59 

Roasted  Salmon ib. 

Broiled  Salmon 60 

Salt  Cod  Fish ib. 

Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel 61 

Broiled  Fresh  Shad ib. 

Hashed  Fish ib. 

Lobster  Pie 62 

Oyster  Loaves ib. 

VEGETABLES. 

Stewed  Lettuce 65 

Stewed  Spinach ib. 

Stewed  Cucumbers 66 

Stewed  Beets ib. 

Stewed  Carrots ib. 

Stewed  Cabbage ib. 

Stewed  Peas 67 

Stewed  Beans ib. 

Stewed  Onions 68 

Onions  stewed  in  Wine ib. 

Stewed  Mushrooms ib. 

Stewed  Potatoes 69 

Stewed  Potatoes  with  Turnips ib 

Asparagus  with  Cream ib 

Potatoes  stewed  whole 70 


Vlll  CONTENTS. 

Fried  Potatoes 70 

Fried  Cauliflower ib. 

Fried  Celery 71 

Broiled  Mushrooms ib. 

Stuffed  Cabbage  (Choux  farcis) 72 

Stuffed  Potatoes ib. 

Stuffed  Cucumbers 73 

Stuffed  Tomatas ib. 

Cauliflowers  with  Cheese 74 

Ragooed  Cabbage ib. 

Ragooed  Mushrooms 75 

PUREES. 

Puree  of  Turnips , 76 

Puree  of  Celery ib. 

Puree  of  Onions ib. 

Puree  of  Mushrooms 77 

Puree  of  Beans ib. 

Puree  of  Green  Peas 78 

EGGS,  &c. 

Boiled  eggs 79 

Fried  Eggs - ib. 

Stewed  Eggs 80 

Stuffed  Eggs ib. 

Egg  Snow ib. 

Pancakes 81 

Omelets ib. 

Maccaroni 82 

Maccaroni  Pie ib. 

Blancmange  in  Eggs 83 

PASTRY,  CAKES,  &c. 

French  Cakes 87 

Puff-Paste ib. 

Cream  Tarts 88 

Almond  Tarts ib. 

Rissoles 89 

Almond  Custards ib 

Vanilla  Custards ib. 

Chocolate  Custards 90 

Coffee  Custards ib 


CONTENTS.  IX 

Tea  Custards 91 

Rice  Pottage ib. 

Apple  Fritters ib. 

Bread  Fritters 92 

Rice  Cake ib. 

Potato  Cake 93 

Sponge  Cake,  or  Biscuit ib. 

Croquettes 94 

Marguerites - ib. 

Wafers 95 

Gingerbread 96 

PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &c. 

An  Apple  Charlotte 99 

Apple  Compote ib. 

Compote  of  Pears 100 

Compote  of  Chestnuts ib. 

Fried  Apples 101 

Peach  Marmalade ib. 

Brandy  Peaches ib. 

Gooseberry  Pottage 102 

Fruit  Jellies 103 

Preserved  Pumpkin 104 

Preserved  Raspberries ib. 

Orange  Jelly 105 

Clarified  Sugar ib. 

Fruit  in  Sugar  Coats 106 

Burnt  Almonds ib. 

Peppermint  Drops 107 

Chocolate  Drops ib 

Nougat 108 

Orgeat  Paste 109 

LIQUEURS. 

Noyau 110 

Raspberry  Cordial ib. 

Rose  Cordial Ill 

Quince  Cordial ib. 

Lemon  Cordial ib. 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

French  Coffee 115 

without  boiling ib. 


X  CONTENTS. 

Chocolate 116 

Fine  Lemonade 117 

Punch ib, 

Convenient  Lemonade ib. 

French  Mustard 118 

Potato  Flour ib. 

Cold  Pickles ib. 

Cormchons  or  Cucumber  Pickles 119 

Fine  Cologne  Water 120 


PART  THE  FIRST. 


SOUPS. 


BEEF  SOUP. 

The  best  soup  is  made  of  the  lean  of  fine  fresh 
beef.  The  proportion  is  four  pounds  of  meat  to  a 
gallon  of  water.  It  should  boil  at  least  six  hours. 
Mutton  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Put  the  meat  into  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt ; 
set  it  over  a  good  fire ;  let  it  boil  slowly  but  con- 
stantly, and  skim  it  well.  When  no  more  fat  rises 
to  the  top,  put  in  what  quantity  you  please  of  car- 
rots, turnips,  leeks,  celery,  and  parsley,  all  cut  into 
small  pieces ;  add,  if  you  choose,  a  laurel-leaf,  or 
two  or  three  peach-leaves,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  large 
burnt  onion,  to  heighten  the  color  of  the  soup. 
Grate  a  large  red  carrot,  and  strew  it  over  the  top. 
Then  continue  to  let  it  boil,  gently  but  steadily,  till 
dinner  time.  Next  to  the  quantity  and  quality  of 
the  meat,  nothing  is  more  necessary  to  the  excel- 
lence of  soup  than  to  keep  the  fire  moderate,  and 
to  see  that  it  is  boiling  all  the  time,  but  not  too  fast. 

Have  ready  in  the  tureen  some  toasted  bread, 
cut  into  small  squares;  pour  the  soup  over  the 
bread,  passing  it  through  a  sieve,  so  as  to  strain  it 
thoroughly.  Some,  however,  prefer  serving  it  up 
with  all  the  vegetables  in  it. 

The  soup  will  be  improved  by  boiling  in  it  the 
remains  of  a  piece  of  cold  roast  beef.  Soups  made 
of  veal,  chickens,  &c.  are  only  fit  for  invalids. 

After  you  have  strained  out  the  vegetables,  you 
may  put  into  the  soup  some  vermicelli  (allowing 
two  ounces  to  each  quart),  and  then  boil  it  ten 
minutes  longer. 

B 


14  soups. 

CONSOMME,  OR  JELLY  SOUP. 

Into  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  put  four  pounds 
of  the  lean  of  the  best  beef-steaks,  and  a  large  fowl 
cut  into  pieces,  four  large  carrots,  four  onions,  four 
leeks,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  (parsley,  thyme, 
sweet  marjoram,  sweet  basil,  and  chives),  tied  up 
with  a  laurel-leaf,  or  two  peach-leaves,  and  four 
cloves ;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  it  gently 
for  eight  hours,  skimming  it  well ;  then  strain  it. 

PEASE  SOUP. 

Take  two  quarts  of  dried  split  peas,  the  evening 
before  you  intend  making  the  soup,  and  putting 
them  into  lukewarm  water,  let  them  soak  all  night. 
in  the  morning,  put  the  peas  into  a  pan  or  pot  with 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  pound  of  bacon,  and 
a  pound  of  the  lean  of  fresh  beef.  Cut  up  two  car- 
rots, two  onions,  and  two  heads  of  celery,  and  put 
them  into  the  soup,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
and  three  or  four  cloves.  Boil  it  slowly  five  or  six 
hours,  till  the  peas  can  no  longer  be  distinguished, 
having  lost  all  shape  and  form ;  then  strain  it,  and 
serve  it  up. 

MACCARONI  SOUP. 

First  make  some  good  beef  soup  (without  any 
vegetables),  and  when  it  is  sufficiently  boiled,  strain 
it  through  a  sieve.  Take  some  maccaroni,  in  the 
proportion  of  half  a  pound  to  two  quarts  of  soup. 
Boil  it  in  water  until  it  is  tender,  adding  to  it  a 
little  butter.  Then  lay  it  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  and 
cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Throw  it  into  the  soup, 
and  boil  all  together  ten  minutes  or  more.  Grate 
some  rich  cheese  over  it  before  you  send  it  to 
table. 


soups.  15 

CHESTNUT  SOUP. 

Having  made  some  beef  soup  without  vegetables, 
strain  it,  and  put  in  a  pint  of  peeled  chestnuts  for 
each' quart  of  soup.  Boil  it  again  till  the  chestnuts 
have  gone  all  to  pieces,  and  have  become  a  part 
of  the  liquid. 

A  still  better  way  is,  to  roast  or  bake  the  chest- 
nuts first,  (having  cut  a  slit  in  the  shell  of  each,) 
then  peel  them,  and  throw  them  into  the  soup  ten 
minutes  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire. 


ALMOND  SOUP. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  shelled  sweet  almonds,  and 
two  ounces  of  shelled  bitter  almonds,  or  peach- 
kernels.  Scald  them,  to  make  the  skins  peel  oft" 
easily,  and  when  they  are  blanched,  throw  them 
into  cold  water.  Then  drain  and  wipe  them  dry. 
Beat  them  (a  few  at  a  time)  in  a  marble  mortar, 
adding  as  you  beat  them,  a  little  milk  and  a  little 
grated  lemon-peel. 

Have  ready  two  quarts  of  rich  milk,  boiled  with 
two  sticks  of  cinnamon  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Stir  the  almonds  gradually  into  the  milk, 
and  let  them  have  one  boil  up.  Prepare  some  slices 
of  toasted  bread,  take  out  a  little  of  the  soup  and 
soak  them  in  it.  Then  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a 
tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  them.  Grate  on 
some  nutmeg. 

LOBSTER  SOUP. 

Having  boiled  a  large  lobster,  extract  all  the 
meat  from  the  shell.  Fry  in  butter  some  thin 
slices  of  bread,  put  them  into  a  marble  mortar,  one 
at  a  time,  alternately  with  some  of  the  meat  of  the 
lobster,  and  pound  the  whole  to  a  paste  till  it  is  all 


16  soups. 

done.  Then  melt  some  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  and 
put  in  the  mixed  bread  and  lobster.  Add  a  quart 
of  boiling  milk,  with  salt,  mace,  and  nutmeg  to 
your  taste.  Let  the  whole  stew  gently  for  half  an 
hour. 


OYSTER  SOUP. 

Take  two  quarts  of  oysters;  drain  them,  and 
cut  out  the  hard  part.  Have  ready  a  dozen  eggs, 
boiled  hard ;  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  pound  them 
in  a  mortar  alternately  with  the  oysters.  Boil  the 
liquor  of  the  oysters  with  a  head  of  celery  cut 
small,  two  grated  nutmegs,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mace, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  with  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  salt,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  whole  pepper. 
When  the  liquor  has  boiled,  stir  in  the  pounded 
eggs  and  oysters,  a  little  at  a  time.  Give  it  one 
more  boil,  and  then  serve  it  up. 

Salt  oysters  will  not  do  for  soup. 


GREEN  PEAS  SOUP. 

Make  a  good  beef  soup,  with  the  proportion  of 
our  pounds  of  lean  beef  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Boil 
it  slowly,  and  skim  it  well.  In  another  pot  boil 
two  quarts  of  green  peas,  with  a  large  bunch  of 
mint,  a  little  salt,  and  three  or  four  lumps  of  loaf 
sugar.  When  they  are  quite  soft,  take  them  out, 
strain  them  from  the  water,  and  mash  them  in  a 
cullender  till  all  the  pulp  drips  through.  Then  stir 
it  into  the  soup  after  you  have  taken  it  up  and 
strained  it.  Prepare  some  toasted  bread  cut  into 
small  squares,  lay  it  in  a  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup 
over  it. 

When  you  toast  bread  for  soups,  stews,  &c. 
always  cut  off  the  crust. 


GRAVIES.  17 

GRAVIES,  OR  ESSENCES. 


BROWN  GRAVY.    (Jus.) 

.  Put  into  a  sauce-pan,  or  skillet,  five  or  six  onions, 
and  as  many  carrots  cut  into  small  pieces,  with 
about  two  pounds  of  scraps  of  beef,  in  which 
there  must  be  none  of  the  fat.  Pour  over  them 
a  pint  of  water.  Cover  the  pan,  and  begin  with 
a  brisk  fire.  When  the  gravy  has  become  brown, 
add  a  little  boiling  water  (or  broth  if  you  have 
it),  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  three  or  four 
cloves,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Diminish 
the  fire,  and  let  the  gravy  stew  gently  for  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Occasionally  prick  the  meat  with  a 
fork,  and  press  it  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  to  ex- 
tract its  juices.  Then  strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
and  let  it  stand  a  while  before  you  use  it. 

In  addition  to  the  beef,  you  may  put  in  pieces  of 
cold  goose,  or  cold  duck. 

WHITE  GRAVY.    (Coulis.) 

Butter  the  bottom  of  a  sauce-pan,  and  put  in 
two  pounds  of  scraps  of  veal,  and,  if  you  have 
it  at  hand,  some  cold  fowl,  or  cold  turkey;  add 
two  white  onions,  and  four  or  five  blades  of  mace ; 
pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  or  broth ; 
cover  the  pan,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  five 
or  six  hours,  pricking  and  pressing  the  meat  with 
a  fork  and  spoon.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
if  it  is  too  thin,  set  it  again  over  the  fire,  to  stew 
a  while  longer. 

ESSENCE  OF  GAME. 

Take  scraps  of  any  kind  of  game  (partridges, 
pheasants,  hares,  &c),  and  also  four  calves  feet, 
B2 


18  GRAVIES. 

and  a  few  small  pieces  of  ham.  Put  them  all  into 
a  stew-pan,  with  half  a  bottle  of  white  wine,  two 
carrots,  two  onions,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Stew  them  over  a  slow  fire  for  four  hours,  and 
when  they  are  reduced  to  a  jelly,  moisten  it  with 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  or  broth,  stirred 
in  gently.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  then  clear 
it  by  stirring  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs  slightly 
beaten. 


TO  CLARIFY  GRAVIES,  OR  ESSENCES. 

Having  strained  your  gravy  through  a  sieve, 
beat  slightly  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  stir  them 
into  it.  Place  it  again  on  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it 
comes  to  a  boil ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  put 
it  away  to  settle.  Strain  it  then  through  a  napkin, 
and  you  will  have  a  transparent  jelly  excellent  for 
making  fine  sauces. 


veloute\  or  velvet  essence. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  scraps  of  veal,  the  same 
quantity  of  pieces  of  fowls,  and  twelve  or  fifteen 
mushrooms ;  stew  them  slowly  in  butter,  and  then 
add  two  onions,  half  a  carrot,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs  cut  small,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  three 
of  boiling  water  or  broth,  and  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg  to  your  taste.  Let  it  stew  an  hour  and  a 
half,  and  then  strain  it 


SAUCES.  19 

SAUCES,  &c. 


When  sauces  are  finished  with  eggs,  use  only 
the  yolks,  and  mix  them  first  with  but  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  the  sauce ;  mix  them  off  the  fire.  Set  on 
the  pan  again  for  two  or  three  moments,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil  after  the  eggs  are  in. 

BECHAMEL. 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  sprinkled  with  flour,  three  or  four  onions, 
and  a  carrot  cut  small,  a  little  parsley,  and  a  dozen 
mushrooms.  Set  it  over  the  fire  until  the  butter  is 
melted,  and  then  add  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour 
stirred  into  a  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg  to  your  taste.  Stir  it  till  it 
boils ;  then  reduce  the  fire,  and  let  the  bechamel 
stew  gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When 
it  is  done,  strain  it,  and  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs. 

ANOTHER  BECHAMEL. 

Cut  into  dice,  or  small  square  pieces,  half  a  pound 
of  bacon  or  ham,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  and  two  onions. 
Put  them  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  two  large  spoon- 
fuls of  veal-dripping ;  add  a  little  butter  (about  two 
ounces),  and  two  large  spoonfuls  of  flour.  Moisten 
it  with  boiling  water,  or  broth.  Add  nutmeg,  cloves, 
thyme,  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper  to  your  taste ;  also 
a  laurel-leaf.  Let  it  stew  for  an  hour.  Strain  it, 
and  before  you  serve  it  up,  squeeze  in  a  little 
lemon-juice. 

DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Put  into  a  small  pan  a  table-spoonful  of  flour 
and  a  tumbler  of  water,  with  salt  to  your  taste, 


20  SAUCES. 

and  a  little  pepper.  Stir  it  till  it  boils.  Then  with- 
draw it  from  the  fire,  and  add  two  ounces  of  butter 
and  a  few  drops  of  cold  water,  with  a  little  lemon- 
juice,  or  vinegar.  Set  it  on  the  stove,  or  near  the 
lire,  and  keep  it  warm  till  it  is  wanted. 

You  may  thicken  it  while  boiling  with  mush- 
rooms, cut  small;  or  after  it  is  done  with  hard 
eggs  chopped  fine,  pickled  cucumbers  chopped,  or 
capers. 

MELTED  BUTTER— another  way. 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter.  When  quite  melted  over  the  fire,  throw  in 
a  large  spoonful  of  flour,  and  add  a  half  pint  of 
boiling  water,  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Boil  it  a  few 
minutes,  and  then  put  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  cold 
water.  If  intended  as  sauce  for  a  pudding,  stir  in 
at  the  last  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  half  a  grated 
nutmeg. 

COLD  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Cut  small,  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  equal  propor- 
tions of  parsley,  chervil,  tarragon,  chives  and 
burnet,  with  two  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Pass 
these  ingredients  through  a  cullender,  and  then 
mix  them  on  a  plate  with  four  table-spoonfuls  of 
sweet  oil,  two  of  vinegar,  and  two  of  mustard. 
Use  a  wooden  spoon. 


SAUCE  FOR  VEGETABLES-SUCH  AS  ASPARAGUS,  &c 

Take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs ;  mash 
them  on  a  plate  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  mix  them  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  vin- 
egar, a  shalot  or  small  onion  minced  fine,  and  a 
little  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper.  Add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  »nd  mix  the  whole  very  well. 


SAUCES. 


PUNGENT  SAUCE.    (Sauce  Pkutante.) 


21 


Put  into  a  saucepan  a  half-pint  of  vinegar,  a 
branch  of  thyme,  two  or  three  sprigs  of  sweet 
marjoram,  a  leaf  of  laurel,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a 
shalot  or  a  little  onion,  and  Cayenne  pepper  and 
salt  to  your  taste.  Add  a  glass  of  broth  or  gravy. 
Stew  the  whole  slowly  till  it  is  reduced  to  two 
thirds  of  the  original  quantity :  then  strain  it. 


ANCHOVY  SAUCE— FOR  FISH. 

Cut  the  flesh  of  three  anchovies  into  small 
shreds,  and  steep  them  in  vinegar  for  half  an  hour 
or  more.  Then  mince  them  fine,  and  throw  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Add  pepper  and  mustard  to  your  taste.  Pour  in 
sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  gently 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Strain  it,  and  squeeze 
in  a  little  lemon-juice  before  you  serve  it  up. 


CURRY  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  two  ounces  of  butter  and 
a  table-spoonful  of  curry-powder  (or  of  powdered 
turmeric  if  more  convenient),  half  a  grated  nut- 
meg, half  a  spoonful  of  saffron,  and  two  spoonfuls 
of  flour.  Add  sufficient  boiling  water  or  broth  to 
cover  it,  and  let  it  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Strain  it,  stir  in  a  little  more  butter,  and  serve  it  up. 


TOMATA  SAUCE. 

Bake  ten  tomatas,  with  pepper  and  salt,  till  they 
become  like  a  marmelade.  Then  add  a  little  flour 
or  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  a  little  broth  or  hot 


22  SAUCES. 

water.  Stew  it  gently  ten  minutes,  and  before  you 
send  it  to  table  add  two  ounces  of  butter  and  let 
it  melt  in  the  sauce. 


CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  some  salt,  pepper,  and  one  or  two  pickled 
cucumbers  minced  fine.  Moisten  it  with  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stew  gently  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve  it  up. 

BREAD  SAUCE. 

Take  four  ounces  of  grated  stale  bread ;  pour 
over  it  sufficient  milk  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  soak 
about  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  till  it  becomes 
incorporated  with  the  milk.  Then  add  a  dozen 
corns  of  black  pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Pour  on  a  little  more 
milk,  and  give  it  a  boil.  Serve  it  up  in  a  sauce- 
boat,  and  eat  it  with  roast  wild  fowl,  or  roast  pig. 

Instead  of  the  pepper,  you  may  boil  in  it  a  hand 
full  of  dried  currants,  well  picked,  washed,  and 
floured. 

SAUCE  ROBERT. 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  with  a  spoonful  of  flour.  Simmer  them  till 
of  a  fine  brown  color.  Mince  half  a  dozen  large 
onions,  and  a  large  slice  of  cold  ham.  Put  them 
into  the  pan,  with  another  piece  of  butter,  and  a 
very  little  broth  or  warm  water.  Skim  the  sauce 
well,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for  twenty  minutes. 
Before  you  serve  it  up,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of 
lemon-juice  or  vinegar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  mus- 
tard. This  sauce  is  used  chiefly  for  fresh  pork,  or 
white  poultry. 


SAUCES.  23 


SHALOT  OR  ONION  SAUCE.    (Sauce  Ravigote.) 

Take  a  handful  of  sweet  herbs  and  the  same 
quantity  of  shalots  or  little  onions,  and  cut  them 
up  small.  Put  them  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  some 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  and  sufficient  broth  or  warm 
water  to  cover  them.  Let  them  boil  gently  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  the  sauce  from  the  fire 
and  set  it  on  the  stove,  or  on  the  hearth,  and  stir 
in  (till  it  melts)  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  or 
a  spoonful  of  olive  oil. 


UNIVERSAL  SAUCE. 

Take  a  pint  of  good  broth,  or  a  pint  of  drawn 
butter.  Stir  into  it  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and 
half  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated.  Add  a  laurel 
leaf,  or  two  or  three  peach-leaves,  and  a  spoonful 
of  vinegar.  Let  the  mixture  simmer  on  a  few 
coals  or  on  hot  ashes,  for  five  or  six  hours  or 
more,  and  it  will  be  good  to  pour  over  either 
meat,  poultry,  or  fish,  and  will  keep  several  days 
in  a  cool  place. 


LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

The  lobster  being  boiled,  extract  the  meat  from 
the  shell,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar.  Rub  it  through 
a  cullender  or  sieve,  and  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  a  spoonful  of  veloute  (or  velvet  essence)  if 
you  have  it,  and  one  of  broth.  Mix  it  well,  and 
add  a  piece  of  butter,  some  salt,  and  some  Cay- 
enne pepper.  Stew  it  ten  minutes,  and  serve  it 
up,  to  eat  with  boiled  fresh  fish. 


24  SAUCES. 


SPINACH  FOR  COLORING  GREEN. 

Take  three  handfuls  of  spinach,  and  pound  it  in 
a  mortar  to  extract  the  juice.  Then  put  it  into  a 
sauce-pan  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire.  When  it  is 
just  ready  to  boil,  take  it  off  and  strain  it.  By 
stirring  in  a  small  quantity  of  spinach-juice,  you 
may  give  any  sauce  a  green  color. 


GARLIC  BUTTER 

Take  two  large  cloves  of  garlic  and  pound 
them  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  adding,  by  degrees,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  You  may  with 
a  little  of  this  butter  give  the  taste  of  garlic  to 
sauces.  Some  persons  like  a  piece  of  garlic  butter 
on  the  table,  to  eat  with  roast  meat. 


HAZELNUT  BUTTER 

Having  scalded  and  blanched  some  hazelnuts, 
pound  them  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  adding  gradu- 
ally a  small  quantity  of  butter. 

This  is  good  to  eat  with  wild  fowl,  or  to  flavor 
the  most  delicate  sauces. 


LARDING. 

Larding  with  slips  of  fat  bacon  greatly  im- 
proves the  taste  and  appearance  of  meat,  poultry, 
game,  &c.  and  is  much  used  in  French  cookery. 

For  this  purpose,  you  must  have  a  larding-pin 
(which  may  be  purchased  at  the  hardware  stores)  ; 
it  is  a  steel  instrument  about  a  foot  in  length,  sharp 
at  one  end,  and  cleft  at  the  other  into  four  divi- 


SAUCES.  25 

sions  which  are  near  two  inches  long,  and  resem- 
bling tweezers. 

Bacon  is  the  proper  meat  to  lard  with ;  the  fat 
only  is  used.  Cut  it  into  slips  not  exceeding  two 
inches  in  length,  half  an  inch  in  breadth,  and  half 
an  inch  in  thickness,  and  smaller  if  intended  for 
poultry ;  they  will  diminish  in  cooking.  Put  these 
slips  of  bacon  (one  at  a  time)  into  the  cleft  or  split 
end  of  the  larding-pin.  Give  each  slip  a  slight 
twist  and  press  it  down  hard  into  the  pin,  with 
your  fingers.  Then  run  the  pin  through  the  meat 
or  fowl  (avoiding  the  bones),  and  when  you  draw 
it  out  on  the  under  side  it  will  have  left  the  slip  of 
bacon  sticking  in  the  upper  side.  Take  care  to 
arrange  the  slips  in  regular  rows  and  at  equal  dis- 
tances ;  have  them  all  of  the  same  size,  and  let 
every  one  stick  up  about  an  inch  from  the  surface 
of  the  meat.  If  any  are  wrong,  take  them  out 
and  do  them  over  again. 

Fowls  and  birds  are  generally  larded  on  the 
breast  only.  To  lard  handsomely  and  neatly, 
practice  and  dexterity  are  requisite. 

Cold  poultry  may  be  larded  with  slips  of  the 
fat  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and  when  not  to  be  cooked 
again,  it  may  be  made  to  look  very  tastefully. 

The  slips  for  cold  poultry  should  be  very  small, 
scarcely  thicker  than  a  straw. 


PART  THE  SECOND. 


MEATS. 


VEAL  A  LA  MODE. 

Rub  a  fillet  of  veal  all  over  with  salt,  and  then 
lard  it.  Make  a  seasoning  of  chopped  sweet-herbs, 
shalots,  mushrooms,  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  nut- 
meg, and  mace.  Moisten  it  with  sweet  oil,  and 
cover  the  veal  all  over  with  it.  Put  the  veal  into 
a  tureen,  and  let  it  set  for  several  hours  or  all  night. 
Then  take  it  out,  covered  as  it  is  with  the  season- 
ing, and  wrap  it  in  two  sheets  of  white  paper,  well 
buttered,  and  roast  or  bake  it.  When  it  is  quite 
done,  take  off  the  paper,  and  scrape  off  all  the 
seasoning  from  the  veal.  Put  the  seasoning  into  a 
sauce-pan  with  the  gravy,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  little  salt. 
Give  it  a  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  pour  it  over  the 
veal. 


VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Make  a  seasoning  of  grated  bread,  minced  ham, 
chopped  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  mush- 
rooms if  you  have  them.  Mix  with  it  some  yolk 
of  egg.  Cut  the  veal  into  small  thin  slices,  rub 
them  all  over  with  lard,  and  then  spread  the  sea- 
soning over  both  sides.  Wrap  up  each  cutlet  care- 
fully in  white  paper,  oiled  or  buttered.  Bake  thern 
slowly  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve 
them  up  in  the  papers. 

C2 


30  MEATS. 

BLANQUETTE  OR  FRICASSEE  OF  VEAL. 

Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  fillet,  or  loin 
of  veal.  Cut  it  into  small  thin  pieces.  Put  them 
into  a  stew-pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  salt,  pepper,  a  few  small  onions  minced,  a 
bunch  of  sweet-herbs  chopped,  and  one  or  two 
laurel  or  peach-leaves.  Mix  all  together.  Pour 
in  a  little  warm  water,  and  let  it  boil  gently  five 
minutes  or  more.  When  you  take  it  off,  stir  in 
some  lemon-juice  and  some  yolk  of  egg  slightly 
beaten. 

godiveau. 

Take  a  large  piece  of  fillet  of  veal,  free  from  fat 
or  skin.  Mince  it  small,  and  then  pound  it  in  a 
mortar  till  it  is  a  smooth  paste.  Afterwards  rub 
it  through  a  cullender  or  sieve. 

Soak  some  slices  of  bread  in  warm  milk,  and 
rub  the  bread  also  through  a  sieve.  There  must 
be  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  and  veal.  Take  the 
same  proportion  of  butter,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar 
with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  chopped  parsley  to 
your  taste.  Then  put  all  together.  Beat  two  or 
three  eggs  till  very  light,  and  add  them  gradually 
to  the  mixture.  Make  it  into  round  balls  or  into 
long  rolls,  and  fry  thorn  in  butter.  Or  you  may 
put  it  into  a  pie  (without  a  lid)  and  bake  it 

Godiveau  is  a  very  fine  stuffing  for  poultry  or 
wild  fowl. 

CALVES'  LIVER  BAKED. 

Lard  the  liver  with  bacon,  and  let  it  lie  three  or 
four  hours  in  a  covered  tureen  with  a  seasoning 
of  parsley,  shalots,  laurel  and  thyme  chopped 
small,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sweet  oil.     Turn  it  several  times.     Then 


MEATS.  31 

wrap  it  up  in  thin  slices  of  bacon  or  cold  ham,  and 
bake  or  roast  it  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Add 
to  the  gravy  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  some  minced 
onions  and  chopped  sweet-herbs. 


CALVES'  LIVER  FRIED- 

Cut  the  liver  into  thin  slices,  and  put  them  int 
a  frying-pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour 
some  minced  onions  and  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  mace.    Let  it  fry  abou* 
en  minutes. 

VEAL  KIDNEYS. 

Cut  the  kidneys  into  thin  slices;  having  first 
soaked  them  in  cold  water,  rub  them  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Then  sprinkle  them  with  flour, 
and  a  little  parsley  and  onions  minced  fine.  Fry 
them  in  butter,  adding  a  glass  of  champagne  or 
other  white  wine. 

Mutton  kidneys  may  be  done  in  the  same 
manner. 

Another  way  of  dressing  kidneys  is  to  split  them 
in  half,  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  lard 
them,  and  broil  them. 


GRILLADES. 

Cut  slices  from  either  a  fillet  of  veal,  a  round  of 
fresh  beef,  a  leg  of  mutton,  or  a  leg  of  pork.  Do 
not  let  them  exceed  the  thickness  of  half  an  mch. 
Put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  sufficient  propor- 
tion of  oil,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  parsley  and 
onion  chopped  fine.  Stew  them  in  a  very  little 
water  till  half  done.  Then  prepare  some  sheets 
of  white  paper  rubbed  with  oil  or  butter.  Take 
out  the  slices  of  meat  (covered  with  this  season- 
ing) and  grate   some  oread  crumbs  over  them. 


32  MEATS. 


Fasten  up  each  slice  in  a  piece  of  paper,  and  broil 
them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  slow  fire.  Serve  them 
up  in  the  paper. 


LIVER  CAKE. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  grated  bread,  and 
two  pounds  of  liver  (either  calves'  or  pigs')  a  few 
onions,  a  little  sage,  some  mushrooms,  and  a  laurel 
leaf,  all  chopped  fine.  Mince  the  liver  also,  and 
mix  it  with  the  other  ingredients,  adding  salt,  pep- 
per, and  nutmeg.  Butter  a  mould  or  a  very  deep 
dish.  Put  the  mixture  into  it,  and  let  it  bake  an 
hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done, 
turn  it  out. 

It  is  eaten  cold,  cut  in  slices. 


SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF 

Rub  your  beef  all  over  with  salt,  and  lard  the 
lean  part  of  it  with  slips  of  fat  bacon.  Cover  the 
meat  with  sheets  of  oiled  or  buttered  paper.  Roast 
it  in  proportion  to  its  size,  between  three  and  four 
hours. 

Serve  it  up  with  its  gravy,  and  have  some 
onion  sauce  in  a  boat. 


STEWED  BEEF. 

Take  some  slices  of  cold  roast  beef  that  has 
been  under-done.  Put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
a  little  gravy  or  broth,  or  if  you  have  neither,  some 
warm  water.  Add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
some  capers,  or  some  pickled  cucumbers  chopped 
small,  a  little  lemon-juice  or  vinegar,  and  some 
salt  and  pepper.  Let  the  beef  simmer  slowly,  but 
do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Have  ready  some  slices 
of  bread  (of  the  same  size  as  the  slices  of  beef)  and 


MEATS.  OO 

fry  them  in  butter.  Put  some  tomata  sauce  in  the 
bottom  of  a  dish.  Lay  on  it  in  a  pile  a  few  slices 
of  beef  and  slices  of  fried  bread  alternately.  Pour 
the  gravy  over  it,  and  send  it  to  table. 

Any  other  sort  of  meat  may  be  done  in  the  same 
manner. 


BEEF  STEAKS. 

Cut  slices  of  beef  from  the  sirloin.  Trim  them 
neatly,  and  take  off  the  bone  and  the  skin.  To 
make  them  tender  beat  them  on  both  sides  with  a 
wooden  beetle  or  with  the  end  of  a  rolling-pin. 
Rub  them  with  salt  and  pepper.  Warm  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  butter,  and  when  it  is  soft  spread 
it  over  the  steaks.  Then  sprinkle  them  with  onions 
minced  very  fine.  Cover  them  up  in  a  dish,  and 
let  them  lie  an  hour  or  more  in  the  seasoning. 
Then  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire.  Slice  some 
cold  boiled  potatoes,  fry  them  in  butter,  and  lay 
hem  round  the  steaks. 


BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Take  a  round  of  fresh  beef,  and  beat  it  well  to 
make  it  tender.  Rub  it  all  over  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Lard  it  on  both  sides  with  slips  of  bacon. 
Lay  it  in  a  deep  pan  with  some  slices  of  bacon,  a 
calves-foot,  a  few  onions,  a  carrot  cut  in  pieces,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs  cut  small,  one  or  two  laurel 
leaves,  some  cloves,  and  a  beaten  nutmeg.  Pour 
in  a  half-pint  of  red  wine,  a  half-pint  of  white 
wine,  and  a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Let  it  stew 
slowly  for  at  least  six  hours.  Then  take  it  out ; 
strain  the  gravy,  pour  it  over  the  meat,  and  serve 
it  up. 

A  fillet  of  veal  may  be  <ione  in  the  same 
manner. 


34  MEATS. 

ROASTED  HAM. 

Let  your  ham  soak  all  night  in  cold  water,  and 
then  trim  it  handsomely,  having  first  taken  out  the 
bone  by  loosening  the  meat  all  round  it,  with  the 
point  of  a  knife.  Tie  a  broad  tape  round  the  ham 
to  keep  it  in  shape.  Then  put  it  into  a  large  pan 
with  some  sliced  onions,  some  sprigs  of  parsley, 
two  or  three  laurel  leaves,  and  a  bottle  of  white 
wine.  Cover  it,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  seasoning 
twenty-four  hours.  Then  roast  it,  and  baste  it 
with  the  seasoning.  A  large  ham  will  require  four 
or  five  hours  to  roast.  A  little  before  it  is  done, 
take  off  the  skin  and  sprinkle  the  ham  with  grated 
bread  crumbs. 

While  the  ham  is  roasting,  stew  together  the 
bone  and  the  trimmings  and  scraps  till  they  come 
to  a  jelly,  which  you  must  strain  through  a  sieve. 
When  you  take  the  ham  from  the  spit  (having  re- 
moved the  tape  that  has  been  fastened  round  it) 
glaze  it  all  over  with  the  jelly,  laid  on  with  a  brush 
or  a  quill  feather.  Serve  it  up  with  the  seasoning 
or  marinade  under  it. 

If  the  ham  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  you  may  cover 
it  all  over  the  glazing  with  cold  boiled  potatoes 
grated  finely,  so  that  it  will  look  like  a  large  cake 
covered  with  icing.  Ornament  it  with  slices  of 
boiled  carrot,  beets,  &c.  scolloped  and  laid  on  the 
potatoes,  in  handsome  forms,  so  as  to  look  like  red 
and  yellow  flowering.  Stick  a  large  bunch  of 
double  parsley  in  the  centre. 

A  ham  boiled  in  the  usual  manner  may  be  orna- 
mented in  the  same  way ;  first  extracting  the  bone, 
and  making  the  meat  into  a  circular  shape. 

Instead  of  a  mere  bunch  of  double  parsley,  you 
may  stick  in  the  centre  of  the  ham  a  nosegay  of 
flowers,  formed  of  different  culinary  vegetables, 
and  cut  into  proper  shape  with  a  sharp  pen-knife, 


MEATS.  35 

All  these  vegetables  must  be  raw.  The  flowers 
intended  to  represent  red  roses  must  be  made  of 
beets,  the  white  roses  of  turnips,  and  the  marigolds 
or  other  deep  yellow  flowers  must  be  cut  out  of 
carrots.  The  pieces  of  turnips  and  beets  must  first 
be  made  with  the  pen-knife  into  the  form  of  a  ball, 
on  the  surface  of  which  the  rose-leaves  must  be 
cut.  The  carrots  may  be  cut  into  flat  slices,  and 
then  notched  to  look  like  marigolds  or  chrysanthe- 
mums. Stick  each  flower  on  the  end  of  a  small 
wooden  skewer,  which  will  answer  for  the  stalk, 
but  which  must  be  concealed  by  thick  bunches  of 
double  parsley  tied  on  so  as  to  represent  the  green 
leaves.  Tie  all  the  skewers  together  at  the  bottom 
with  a  pack-thread,  and  the  whole  will  have  the 
effect  of  a  handsome  nosegay  when  placed  in  the 
middle  of  the  ham. 

A  round  of  cold  a-la-mode  beef  may  be  orna- 
mented with  a  bunch  of  these  flowers.  Let  the 
beef  itself  be  covered  all  over  with  parsley,  so  as 
to  resemble  a  green  bank. 


FRIED  HAM,  WITH  TOMATAS. 

Fry  some  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham.  Then  fry 
some  tomatas,  allowing  one  tomata  to  each  slice 
of  meat.  Lay  the  tomatas  on  the  ham,  shake  some 
pepper  over  them,  and  send  them  to  table. 


ROASTED  TONGUE. 

Having  soaked  a  large  smoked  tongue  all  night 
in  cold  water,  parboil  it  in  a  very  little  warm 
water  with  a  slice  of  bacon,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  an  onion  or  two  stuck  with  cloves. 
When  it  is  nearly  done,  take  it  out,  drain  it,  and 
lard  it  with  large  slips  of  bacon  on  the  upper  side, 


36  MEATS. 

and  small  pieces  on  the  under  side.  Then  put  it 
on  the  spit  and  roast  it  half  an  hour,  and  serve 
it  up  with  pungent  sauce  (Sauce  Piquante.) 


BAKED  TONGUE. 

Take  a  cold  boiled  tongue  and  cut  it  into  slices. 
Put  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  a  little  vinegar, 
with  some  capers,  parsley  and  shalots  minced  fine, 
and  some  grated  bread,  all  mixed  together.  Lay 
the  slices  of  tongue  upon  this,  and  cover  them  with 
some  more  of  the  same  seasoning.  Then  grate 
some  bread  all  over  the  top.  Moisten  the  whole 
by  pouring  in  a  little  warm  water.  Put  the  dish 
into  a  stove  moderately  heated,  or  set  it  on  a  slow 
furnace.    Bake  it  till  brown. 


POTTED  TONGUE. 

Boil  two  smoked  tongues.  Skin  them  and  cut 
them  into  thin  slices.  Put  the  slices  (a  few  at  a 
time)  into  a  mortar  and  beat  them  to  a  paste,  add- 
ing gradually  a  pound  of  butter.  Then  prepare  an 
equal  quantity  of  the  lean  of  stewed  veal,  and 
pound  that  also  in  the  mortar  (a  little  at  a  time) 
with  the  same  proportion  of  butter.  Then  make 
the  veal  and  the  tongue  into  lumps,  and  put  them 
alternately  into  your  stone  pots,  pressing  them 
together  so  as  to  look  like  red  and  white  marble. 
Have  a  layer  of  veal  at  the  top.  Press  the  whole 
down  very  hard.  Fill  up  the  pots  with  butter, 
boiled  and  skimmed  and  poured  on  warm.  Tie 
them  up  closely  with  parchment,  and  keep  them 
in  a  cold  but  dry  place. 

When  you  use  it,  cut  it  in  slices. 


MEATS.  37 


LEG  OF  MUTTON  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Rub  a  leg  of  mutton  all  over  with  salt,  and  put 
it  on  the  spit  to  roast  with  a  clear  fire,  basting  it 
with  its  own  gravy.  When  it  is  nearly  done,  take 
it  up  and  with  a  sharp  knife  make  incisions  all  over 
it,  and  stuff  an  oyster  into  every  hole.  Then  put 
it  again  before  the  fire,  to  finish  roasting. 

Before  you  serve  it  up,  skim  the  gravy  well,  and 
give  it  a  boil  with  a  glass  of  red  wine. 


CUTLETS  A  LA  MAINTENON. 

Cut  a  neck  of  mutton  into  chops,  leaving  a  bone 
to  each,  but  scraping  the  end  of  the  bone  quite 
clean.  Mix  together  some  grated  bread,  and 
some  marjoram  and  onion  chopped  fine.  Season 
it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Having  melted 
some  butter,  dip  each  chop  into  it,  and  then  cover 
them  on  both  sides  with  the  seasoning.  Butter 
rome  half-sheets  of  white  paper,  and  put  the  cutlets 
ttito  them,  leaving  the  end  of  each  bone  to  stick 
)ut  of  the  paper  like  a  handle.  Lay  them  on  a 
gridiron,  and  broil  them  for  about  twenty  minutes 
on  clear  lively  coals.  Serve  them  up  in  the 
papers. 

Make  a  sauce  of  four  shalots  or  little  onions 
chopped  fine,  some  gravy,  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  spoonful  of  red  wine.  Boil  this  sauce  for  a 
minute,  and  send  it  up  in  a  boat. 


PORK  CUTLETS. 

Mince  together  some  onions,  parsley,  and   a 
laurel  leaf.  Season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cloves. 
Cut  your  pork  into  thin  steaks,  and  lay  them  in  this 
D 


38  MEATS. 

seasoning  for  five  or  six  hours.  Then  broil  or  fry 
them  with  the  seasoning  on  them,  and  serve  them 
up  with  sauce  Robert,  or  with  tomata  sauce. 


LARDED  RABBIT. 

Lard  a  fine  large  rabbit,  and  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  slice  or  two  of  cold  ham,  a  bunch  ot 
sweet-herbs,  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  oil,  and  a 
gill  of  white  wine.  Stew  it  slowly,  and,  when  it  is 
quite  done,  strain  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  the 
rabbit. 


RABBITS  IN  PAPERS. 

Take  two  young  rabbits  ;  cut  off  the  limbs  and 
put  them  aside.  Cut  the  flesh  from  the  body,  and 
chop  it  very  fine,  mixing  it  with  shalots,  parsley, 
and  mushrooms  chopped  also,  and,  if  you  choose,  a 
clove  of  garlic.  Season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg,  and  moisten  it  with  sweet  oil.  Lay  the 
legs  of  the  rabbit  in  this  mixture,  for  three  or  four 
hours.  Then  take  out  separately  each  leg  covered 
with  the  seasoning,  lay  on  it  a  thin  slice  of  bacon 
or  cold  ham,  and  wrap  it  in  a  sheet  of  white  paper 
well  buttered.  Broil  the  limbs  slowly  on  the  grid- 
iron, and  serve  them  up  hot  in  the  papers. 

Fowls  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner.  Ducks 
also. 


PILAU. 

Take  half  a  dozen  slices  of  the  lean  of  a  leg  of 
mutton,  or  of  fillet  of  veal.  Put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  six  large  onions,  a  carrot  cut  in  pieces, 
and  some  parsley,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg  to 
your  taste.    Add  a  tea-spoonful  of  saffron,  a  piece 


MEATS.  39 

of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  little  boiling  water. 
Let  it  stew  for  an  hour,  and  skim  it  well. 

Have  ready  a  pound  of  rice  boiled  soft  and 
drained.  Mix  with  it  a  large  piece  of  butter.  Put 
some  rice  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish,  and  lay  on 
it  first  the  seasoning,  and  then  the  slices  of  meat  in 
a  pile.  Keep  the  remainder  of  the  rice  over  it,  and 
set  it  on  the  stove  or  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 


VEAL  SWEETBREADS- 

Take  three  sweet-breads,  and  soak  them  three  or 
four  hours  in  milk.  Then  wipe  them  dry,  and  lard 
them.  Make  a  seasoning  of  sweet-herbs  and  mush- 
rooms chopped  fine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cold 
ham  or  bacon  scraped  or  minced,  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg  to  your  taste,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
sweet-oil.  Mix  the  seasoning  very  well  together, 
and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  sweet-breads, 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  little  water  or 
broth,  and  the  same  quantity  of  wine.  Stew  it 
about  ten  minutes.  Then  take  out  the  sweet-breads, 
lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  pour  the  seasoning  over 
them,  and  let  them  get  cold.  Next  prepare  some 
cases  of  white  paper,  oil  them,  and  cover  the  in- 
side with  grated  bread.  Put  a  sweet-bread  into 
each  paper-case,  with  some  of  the  seasoning  at 
bottom  and  top.  Close  the  cases,  put  them  in  an 
oven,  and  bake  them  long  enough  to  color  the 
sweet-breads.     Serve  them  up  in  the  papers. 

Set  the  gravy  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  simmers 
take  it  off,  and  stir  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Keep  it  covered  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  serve  it  up  in  a  boat 


PART  THE  THIRD. 


GAME  AND  POULTRY. 


A  SALMI. 


Cut  off  the  flesh  from  the  bodies  of  a  pair  of  cold 
pheasants,  partridges  or  wild-ducks,  or  an  equal 
quantity  of  small  birds.  Beat  it  in  a  mortar,  moist- 
ening it  frequently  with  a  little  broth  or  gravy. 
Then  pass  the  whole  through  a  cullender  or  sieve. 
Put  it  into  a  stewT-pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  about 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in  flour ;  half  a  pint  of 
port  wine  or  claret ;  two  whole  onions,  and  a  bunch 
of  sweet-herbs.  Let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  then 
stir  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon. 

In  another  pan  stew  the  legs  and  wings  of  the 
birds,  but  do  not  let  them  boil.  Stew  them  in  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Cut  some  slices  of  bread  into  triangular  pieces,  and 
fry  them  in  butter.  Lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a 
dish,  put  the  legs  and  wings  upon  them,  and  then 
the  other  part  of  the  stew.  Garnish  the  edge  with 
slices  of  lemon,  handsomely  notched  with  a  knife. 

If  the  Salmi  is  made  of  partridges,  use  oranges 
instead  of  lemons  for  the  juice  and  garnishing. 


COLD  SALMI. 

This  is  prepared  on  the  table.  Take  the  liver 
of  a  roast  goose,  turkey,  or  ducks.  Put  some  of 
the  gravy  on  a  plate,  cut  up  the  liver  in  it,  and 
bruise  it  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  or  a  silver  fork. 


44  GAME   AND   POULTRY. 

Add  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 
Mix  it  well.  When  the  bird  is  cut  up,  eat  with  it 
some  of  this  sauce. 


RAGOOED  LIVERS. 

Take  the  livers  of  half  a  dozen  fowls  or  other 
poultry,  a  dozen  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  clove  of  garlic  or  a  small  onion,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Add  a  glass  of 
white  wine,  and  sufficient  warm  water  to  keep  the 
ingredients  moist.  Season  it  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Stew  all  together,  and  skim  it  well.  Before  you 
send  it  to  table,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  or  three 
beaten  eggs,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  cream. 


A  FINE  HASH. 

Take  any  cold  game  or  poultry  that  you  have. 
You  may  mix  several  kinds  together.  Some  sau- 
sages, of  the  best  sort,  will  be  an  improvement 
Chop  all  together,  and  mix  with  it  bread  crumbs, 
chopped  onions  and  parsley,  and  the  yolks  of  two 
or  three  hard-boiled  eggs.  Put  it  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  a  proportionate  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Moisten  it  with  broth,  gravy,  or  warm  water,  and 
let  it  stew  gently  for  half  an  hour. 

Cold  veal  or  fresh  pork  may  be  hashed  in  the 
same  manner. 


MARINADE  OF  FOWLS. 

Take  a  pair  of  fowls,  skin  and  cut  them  up. 
Wash  them  in  lukewarm  water.  Drain  them,  and 
put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  some  butter.  Season 
them  to  your  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon- 


GAME  AND  POULTRY.  45 

juice.  Add  parsley,  onions,  and  a  laurel  leaf. 
Moisten  them  with  warm  water,  and  let  them  stew 
slowly  on  hot  coals  for  two  or  three  hours.  Clear 
them  from  the  seasoning  and  drain  them.  Then 
lay  them  in  a  dish,  and  grate  bread  crumbs  over 
them.  Whip  some  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  cover  with  it  all  the  pieces  of  fowl. 


FRICASSEE  OF  FOWLS. 

Skin  and  cut  up  your  fowls,  and  soak  them  two 
hours  in  cold  water,  to  make  them  white.  Drain 
them.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  large  piece  of  butter, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour.  Stir  them  together 
till  the  butter  has  melted.  Add  salt,  pepper,  a 
grated  nutmeg,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet-herbs.  Pour 
in  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Put  in  the  fowls,  and  let 
them  stew  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Before  you 
send  them  to  table,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  beaten 
eggs,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

The  Fricassee  will  be  greatly  improved  by  some 
mushrooms  stewed  with  the  fowl. 

To  keep  the  fricassee  white,  cover  it  (while  stew- 
ing) with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper  laid  over  the 
fowls.  The  lid  of  the  stew-pan  must  be  kept  on 
tightly. 


FOWLS  WITH  TARRAGON. 

Pick  two  handfuls  of  tarragon  (the  leaves  from 
the  stalks)  and  chop  half  of  it  fine  with  the  livers 
of  the  fowls.  Mix  it  with  butter,  salt,  and  whole 
pepper.  Stuff  your  fowls  with  it.  Lard  them  and 
wrap  them  in  papers  buttered  or  oiled. 

Melt  some  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  stir  into  it 
the  rest  of  the  tarragon.  Moisten  it  with  a  little 
water  or  milk.     Stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  beaten 


46  GAME  AND  POULTRY. 

eggs,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Serve  it  up  as 
gravy.  Strew  over  the  fowls  some  sprigs  of  fresh 
tarragon. 

A  STEWED  FOWL. 

Take  a  large  fowl,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan 
with  two  ounces  or  more  of  butter,  some  thin  slices 
of  cold  ham,  a  little  parsley  and  onion  chopped 
fine,  and  some  nutmeg,  salt,  and  pepper.  Then 
pour  in  half  a  tumbler  of  white  wine.  You  may 
add,  if  you  choose,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  boiled  rice, 
which  you  must  afterwards  serve  up  under  the 
fowl  and  ham.  Let  it  stew  slowly  for  two  hours, 
with  just  sufficient  water  to  keep  it  from  burning. 

Before  you  send  it  to  table,  go  all  over  the  fowl 
with  a  feather  or  brush  dipped  in  yolk  of  egg. 
You  may  add  to  the  stew  a  dozen  small  onions,  to 
be  laid  round  the  fowl  with  the  slices  of  ham. 


CHICKENS  IN  JELLY. 

Cold  chickens,  pigeons,  and  game,  look  very 
handsome  in  jelly.  To  make  this  jelly,  take  four 
calves-feet  (with  the  skin  on)  and  boil  them  to  a 
strong  jelly  with  an  ounce  of  isinglass  and  three 
quarts  of  water,  carefully  skimming  off  the  fat. 
The  calves-feet  must  be  boiled  the  day  before  the 
jelly  is  wanted,  and  when  it  is  cold  scrape  off  all 
the  sediment  that  adheres  to  it.  Then  boil  the 
jelly  with  the  addition  of  the  whites  and  shells  of 
six  eggs,  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  three  or  four 
sticks  of  cinnamon,  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and 
a  pint  of  Malaga  or  other  sweet  wine.  Let  it  boil 
hard  for  five  or  six  minutes,  but  do  not  stir  it. 
Strain  it  several  times  through  a  flannel  bag  into 
a  deep  white  pan,  but  do  not  on  any  consideration 
squeeze  or  press  the  bag,  as  that  will  entirely  spoil 


GAME  AND  POULTRY.  47 

the  transparency  of  the  jelly.  After  it  has  done 
dripping  through  the  bag,  take  out  all  the  ingre- 
dients (as  they  are  now  of  no  farther  use)  and 
wash  the  bag  clean.  Then  pour  the  jelly  into  it 
again,  and  let  it  strain.  Repeat  this  till  it  is  per- 
fectly clear  and  bright ;  washing  the  bag  every 
time.  Sometimes  (but  not  often)  it  will  be  clear 
at  the  first  straining. 

Put  a  little  of  the  jelly  into  the  bottom  of  a  deep 
dish  or  bowl,  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place.  When  it 
has  congealed  and  is  firm,  lay  your  chickens  on  it 
with  the  breasts  downwards.  Having  kept  the  re- 
mainder of  the  jelly  warm,  to  prevent  its  congeal- 
ing too  soon,  pour  it  over  the  fowls.  Let  it  stand 
all  night  or  till  it  is  perfectly  firm.  Then  set  your 
dish  or  bowl  in  warm  water  for  a  moment,  to 
loosen  the  jelly.  Lay  over  it  the  dish  in  which 
you  intend  to  serve  it  up,  and  turn  it  out  carefully. 
If  you  fear  that  you  will  not  be  able  to  turn  it  out 
without  breaking  the  jelly,  you  may  prepare  it  at 
the  beginning  in  a  deep  china  dish  fit  to  send  to 
table. 

If  you  put  too  much  water  to  the  calves-feet, 
the  jelly  will  never  be  firm,  till  it  is  boiled  over 
again  with  more  isinglass.  The  generality  of 
cooks  are  in  the  habit  of  putting  too  much  water 
to  every  thing,  and  should  be  cautioned  accord- 
ingly. 


PULLED  CHICKENS. 

Boil  a  pair  of  fowls  till  they  are  about  half  done. 
Then  skin  them,  and  pull  the  flesh  from  the  bones 
in  pieces  about  a  finger  in  breadth  and  half  a  fin- 
ger in  length.  Take  a  few  table-spoonfuls  of  the 
liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  and  mix  it  with  half  a 
pint  of  boiling  cream.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  pepper,  salt,  and 


48  GAME  AND  POULTRY. 

nutmeg;  a  little  chopped  parsley;  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  white  wine.  Put  in  the  pieces  of 
chicken,  and  stew  them  slowly  till  quite  done. 


STEWED  TURKEY,  OR  TURKEY  EN  DAUBE. 

Take  a  large  turkey ;  lard  it  and  stuff  it  as  for 
roasting.  Then  cover  it  all  over  with  a  seasoning 
made  of  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  sweet-herbs, 
parsley  and  onions,  minced  fine.  Put  it  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  some  slices  of  bacon,  one  or  two 
calves-feet,  some  onions  and  carrots,  one  or  two 
laurel  leaves,  a  few  cloves,  a  beaten  nutmeg, .  salt, 
pepper,  and,  if  you  choose,  a  clove  of  garlic.  Pour 
in  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  pint  of  white  wine  or 
brandy. 

Put  on  the  cover  of  the  stew-pan,  and  lay  round 
its  edge  on  the  outside  a  wet  cloth,  which  must  be 
kept  wet.  Stew  it  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours  or 
more,  and  turn  the  turkey  when  about  half  done. 
When  it  is  finished,  withdraw  the  fire,  and  skim 
and  strain  the  gravy.  Serve  up  the  turkey  with 
the  gravy  under  it. 

A  goose  done  this  way  is  very  fine. 

A  round  of  beef  may  be  stewed  in  the  same 
manner.  It  will  be  the  better  for  lying  all  night 
in  the  seasoning,  and  it  should  be  put  in  to  stew 
early  in  the  morning. 

ROASTED  TURKEY. 

Rub  the  turkey  all  over  with  salt.  Then  lard  it. 
You  may  stuff  it  with  sausage-meat  ;  or  with 
chestnuts  previously  boiled,  peeled,  and  mashed. 
Or,  you  may  make  a  force-meat  stuffing  of  the 
liver,  heart,  and  gizzard,  chopped  fine,  and  mixed 
with  chopped  parsley,  onions,  sweet-herbs,  grated 
bread,  butter,  lemon-juice,  grated  lemon-peel,  and 
the  yolk  of  one  or  two  eggs. 


GAME  AND  POULTRY.  49 

A  turkey  of  moderate  size  will  require  at  least 
two  hours  to  roast.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  yolk 
of  egg  stirred  in  just  before  you  send  it  to  table. 

A  cold  roast  turkey  should  be  larded  and  served 
up  with  large  spoonfuls  of  stiff  currant  jelly  drop- 
ped all  over  it. 

You  may  roast  a  goose  in  the  same  manner. 


POTTED  GOOSE. 

Take  several  fine  geese ;  rub  them  with  salt, 
and  put  into  each  a  handful  of  sage  leaves.  Roast 
them  about  an  hour.  Do  not  baste  them,  but  save 
all  the  fat  in  the  dripping-pan,  emptying  it  as  it  is 
filled.  When  you  have  taken  the  geese  from  the 
spit,  cut  off  the  legs  and  wings,  and  cut  the  flesh 
from  the  breast  in  slices.  Set  them  away  to  get 
cold. 

Put  the  fat  that  has  dripped  from  the  geese  into 
a  kettle,  with  about  half  as  much  lard  as  there  is 
of  the  dripping.  Boil  it  ten  minutes.  Have  ready 
a  tall  stone  jar,  or  more  than  one  if  necessary. 
Lay  two  legs  of  the  geese  side  by  side  in  the  bot- 
tom, and  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
placing,  if  you  choose,  a  laurel  leaf  on  each. 
Then  put  in  two  wings,  and  season  them  also. 
Next  a  layer  of  the  slices  cut  from  the  breast,  sea- 
soned in  the  same  manner.  When  the  pots  are 
almost  full  of  the  goose,  fill  them  up  to  the  top 
with  the  boiling  fat,  and  set  them  away  till  the 
next  day  to  get  cold.  The  upper  layer  must  be 
covered  at  least  an  inch  thick  with  the  fat. 

Tie  up  the  pots  with  covers  of  parchment  wet 
with  brandy,  and  keep  them  in  a  cold  but  not  in  a 
damp  place. 

In  France  great  numbers  of  geese  are  fattened 
for  this  purpose. 

E 


50  GAME  AND  POULTRY. 


DUCKS  WITH  TURNIPS. 

Stew  some  turnips  with  butter,  salt,  and  a  little 
sugar.  When  soft,  take  them  out  and  drain  them. 
Cut  up  your  ducks,  season  them,  and  put  them  into 
the  same  pan  that  has  held  the  turnips.  Stew  the 
ducks  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  little 
water,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet-herbs  tied  up.  When 
the  ducks  are  nearly  done,  put  the  turnips  in 
again,  and  let  all  stew  slowly  together  for  ten 
minutes,  skimming  it  well.  Withdraw  the  sweet- 
herbs  before  you  send  the  dish  to  table. 


A  DUCK  WITH  OLIVES. 

Having  larded  your  duck,  stew  it  whole,  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  water.  Take  half 
a  pint  of  olives,  cut  them  in  half  and  take  out  the 
seeds  or  stones.  When  the  duck  is  nearly  done, 
throw  in  the  olives,  and  let  all  stew  together  about 
five  minutes  or  more.  Serve  up  the  duck  with  the 
olives  round  it. 


A  DUCK  WITH  PEAS. 

Stew  the  duck  whole,  with  some  lard  and  a  little 
salt,  till  about  half  done.  Then  take  it  out  and 
drain  it.  Put  into  the  stew-pan  a  large  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour.  When  it  has  melted,  pour 
in  a  quart  of  shelled  green  peas,  and  add  a  bunch 
of  mint,  or  other  sweet  herbs,  and  some  pepper 
and  salt.  Then  put  in  the  duck,  adding  a  little 
warm  water.  Let  it  stew  slowly  till  quite  done, 
skimming  it  well. 


GAME  AND  POULTRY.  51 


TURKEY  PUDDINGS. 


Mince  thirty  small  onions  and  mix  them  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs  that  have  been 
soaked  in  milk.  Chop  an  equal  quantity  of  the 
flesh  of  cold  turkey.  Mix  all  together,  and  pound 
it  very  well  in  a  mortar.  Pass  it  through  a  cul- 
lender, and  then  return  it  to  the  mortar  and  beat 
it  again,  adding  gradually  the  yolks  of  six  hard 
eggs,  and  a  pint  of  cream  or  half  a  pound  of  but- 
ter. Season  it  to  your  taste  with  salt,  mace  and 
nutmeg. 

Have  ready  some  skins,  nicely  cleaned  as  for 
sausages.  Fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture,  and  tie 
up  the  ends.  Then  simmer  your  puddings,  but  do 
not  let  them  boil.  Take  them  out,  drain  them,  and 
put  them  away  to  get  cold. 

When  you  wish  to  cook  them  for  immediate  use 
prick  them  with  a  fork,  wrap  them  in  buttered  pa- 
per, and  broil  them  on  a  gridiron. 

Similar  puddings  may  be  made  of  cold  fowls. 


BAKED  PIGEONS,  OR  PIGEONS  A  LA  CRAPAUDINE. 

Split  the  pigeons  down  the  back.  Take  out  the 
livers,  which  you  must  mince  with  bacon  and 
sweet-herbs,  adding  to  them  the  livers  of  fowls  or 
other  birds,  if  you  have  them,  and  bacon  in  pro- 
portion. Or  you  may  substitute  sausage-meat.  Add 
bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  or  more,  with  salt,  pepper,  mace  and  nutmeg 
to  your  taste.  Mix  all  together,  and  stuff  your 
pigeons  with  it,  and  then  glaze  them  all  over  with 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Place  them  in  a  buttered 
pan,  and  set  them  in  the  oven.  Bake  them  half  an 
hour.  Before  you  serve  them  up,  squeeze  some 
lemon-juice  into  the  gravy. 


52  GAME  AND  POULTRY. 


BROILED  PIGEONS. 

Split  your  pigeons  and  flatten  them.  Make  a 
seasoning  of  sweet  oil,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  sha- 
lots,  and  chopped  parsley.  Rub  this  seasoning  all 
over  the  pigeons.  Then  cover  them  with  grated 
bread  crumbs.  Wrap  each  in  a  sheet  of  white 
paper,  and  broil  them  on  a  slow  fire.  Serve  them 
up  with  a  sauce  made  of  minced  onions,  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  lemon-juice  or  vinegar,  and  salt 
and  pepper. 

PIGEONS  PEAR-FASHION.    (Pigeons  au  Poire.) 

First,  bone  your  pigeons.  To  do  this,  take  a 
sharp  knife,  and  slipping  it  under  the  flesh  care- 
fully loosen  it  from  the  bone,  and  do  not  tear  the 
skin.  Begin  at  the  upper  part  of  the  bird,  just 
above  the  wings,  scrape  gradually  down,  and 
finish  at  the  legs.  Then  take  hold  of  the  neck,  and 
draw  out  the  whole  skeleton  at  once.  Make  a 
good  force-meat  or  stuffing  (as  directed  for  baked 
pigeons),  and  fill  them  with  it,  making  them  each 
into  the  shape  of  a  large  pear.  Fasten  them  with 
skewers.  Glaze  them  all  over  with  yolk  of  egg, 
and  then  roll  them  in  grated  bread-crumbs.  Stick 
in  the  top  of  each,  the  lower  end  of  the  leg,  to 
look  like  the  stem  of  a  pear.  Lay  them  in  a  but- 
tered dish  (but  not  so  close  as  to  touch  each  other) 
and  bake  them.  Make  a  good  gravy,  thickened 
with  the  yoJk  of  an  egg,  and  some  butter  rolled  in 
flour. 


PIGEONS  WITH  PEAS. 

Take  two  or  four  pigeons  (according  to  their 
size),  and  truss  them  with  the  feet  inwards.  Put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 


GAJVIJE  AND  POULTRY.  53 

i.  four,  and  two  or  three  slices  of  cold  ham,  or 
bacon,  and  a  little  water.  Let  them  stew  gently 
till  brown.  Then  add  a  quart  of  green  peas,  and 
a  bunch  of  mint,  with  another  piece  of  butter,  and 
a  little  warm  water  or  milk.  Let  them  stew  slowly, 
and  when  they  are  quite  done,  stir  in  some  more 
butter.  Serve  up  the  pigeons  with  the  peas  under 
them. 


ROASTED  PARTRIDGES. 

Lard  the  partridges,  and  put  in  the  inside  of 
each  a  laurel  leaf,  and  an  orange  cut  in  pieces.  If 
you  omit  the  laurel  leaf,  do  not  peel  the  orange, 
but  put  in  the  pieces  with  the  rind  on  them.  These 
must  be  taken  out  before  the  partridges  are  sent  to 
table.     Be  careful  not  to  roast  them  too  much. 


PARTRIDGES  WITH  CABBAGE. 

Having  trussed  the  partridges,  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan  with  a  large  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  or  ham  cut 
into  dice ;  a  bunch  of  sweet-herbs,  and  a  little 
warm  water.  Put  into  another  stew-pan  a  fine 
Savoy  cabbage,  with  a  pint  of  the  dripping  of  beef 
or  pork.  Let  it  stew  slowly  till  nearly  done.  Then 
take  out  the  cabbage  and  drain  it,  and  put  it  into 
the  stew-pan  to  cook  with  the  partridges  for  half 
an  hour.  Lay  the  cabbage  under  the  partridges 
when  you  send  them  to  table. 


A  PARTRIDGE  PIE. 

Take  three  pair  of  large  partridges  and  truss 
them  as  you  do  fowls.     Rub  them  all  over  with  a 
mixture  of  pepper,  salt,  powdered  mace  and  pow- 
E2 


54  GAME  AND  POULTRY. 

dered  nutmeg.  Take  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  and 
two  pounds  of  lean  veal,  and  cut  them  into  small 
pieces.  Put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter.  Add  a  bunch  of  sweet-herbs, 
and  a  few  shalots  or  small  onions,  all  minced  fine. 
Stew  them  till  the  meat  seems  to  be  quite  done, 
and  then  put  it  into  a  cullender  to  drain.  After- 
wards put  the  meat  into  a  mortar,  season  it  with 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  mace,  and  pound  it  to  a 
smooth  paste  ;  moistening  it  at  times  with  some  of 
the  liquor  in  which  it  was  stewed. 

Prepare  a  rich  paste,  and  spread  a  sheet  of  it 
over  the  bottom  of  a  large  and  deep  buttered  dish. 
Put  in  the  partridges,  side  by  side,  pour  in  a  little 
water,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  and  cover  them  with 
the  pounded  meat.  Lay  on  the  top  a  few  slices  of 
cold  ham.  Roll  out  a  thick  piece  of  paste  for  the 
lid,  and  cover  the  pie  with  it ;  cutting  the  edges 
into  square  notches,  and  folding  over  the  half  of 
each  notch.  Ornament  the  lid  with  leaves  and 
flowers  made  of  paste.  Bake  it  three  hours,  and 
see  that  the  oven  is  not  so  hot  as  to  scorch  it. 
When  done,  glaze  it  all  over  with  white  of  egg. 

This  pie  will  be  greatly  improved  by  the  addi- 
tion of  some  truffles.  If  you  cannot  procure  truf- 
fles, mushrooms  cut  in  pieces  may  be  substituted. 


ROASTED  PHEASANTS. 

Make  a  stuffing  of  fresh  raw  oysters,  chopped, 
and  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  mace. 
Mix  with  it  some  sweet  oil,  some  yolk  of  egg,  and 
fill  the  pheasants  with  this  stuffing.  Cover  the 
pheasants  with  thin  slices  of  bacon  or  cold  ham ; 
wrap  them  in  buttered  sheets  of  white  paper,  and 
roast  them.     Serve  them  up  with  oyster  sauce. 


GAME  AND  POULTRY.  55 


BROILED  QUAILS. 


Split  the  quails  down  the  back,  and  flatten  them. 
Put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  sweet-oil,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  a  leaf  or  two  of  laurel.  Cover  them  with 
thin  slices  of  bacon  or  ham,  and  let  them  stew 
slowly  on  hot  coals.  When  nearly  done,  take 
them  out,  strew  over  them  grated  breadcrumbs, 
and  broil  them  on  a  gridiron. 

Put  into  the  stew-pan  a  little  warm  water,  and 
scrape  down  whatever  adheres  to  the  sides  ;  skim 
it,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  this  gravy  into 
the  dish  in  which  you  serve  up  the  quails,  and  lay 
the  bacon  round  it. 


ROASTED  PLOVERS. 

Scald  and  pick  your  plovers,  but  do  not  draw 
them.  Lard  them,  and  lay  slices  of  toasted  bread 
in  the  dripping-pan  to  receive  what  falls  from  the 
Dirds  while  roasting.  Serve  them  up  with  the  toast 
under  them. 

Woodcocks  and  snipes  are  roasted  in  the  same 
nanner. 


PART  THE  FOURTH 


FISH. 


STEWED  SALMON. 

Pour  a  half-pint  of  white  wine  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  some  sliced  carrots,  onions,  and  mushrooms  ; 
pepper,  salt,  and  mace ;  and  a  bunch  of  chopped 
sweet-herbs.  Lay  in  your  piece  of  fresh  salmon, 
and  pour  over  it  some  more  wine.  Stew  it  slowly 
for  an  hour  or  more.  When  done,  serve  it  up  with 
the  sauce  that  is  under  it,  and  also  with  some  sauce 
Mayonnaise  in  a  boat. 

The  sauce  Mayonnaise  is  made  as  follows: — 
Put  into  a  small  tureen  the  yolks  of  two  beaten 
eggs,  a  little  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper,  and  a  very 
little  vinegar.  Stir  and  mix  it  well;  then  add 
(a  drop  at  a  time)  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet-oil, 
stirring  all  the  while.  When  it  is  well  mixed,  stir 
in  gradually  some  more  vinegar.  To  stir  and  mix 
it  thoroughly  will  require  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  It 
will  then  be  very  delicate. 

You  may  color  it  green  by  adding  a  little  juice 
of  spinach,  or  some  chopped  parsley  or  tarragon 
at  the  first,  when  you  put  in  the  eggs. 


ROASTED  SALMON. 


A  large  piece  of  fresh  salmon  is  very  fine  roast- 
ed on  a  spit,  first  rubbing  it  with  salt,  and  then 
basting  it  all  the  time  with  sweet-oil  or  butter. 

For  roasted  salmon,  make  a  sauce  as  follows : — 
Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  little  parsley,  a  shalot  or 
small  onion,  a  few  mushrooms,  and  a  piece  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  gill  or  more 


60  FISH. 

of  white  wine.  Let  these  ingredients  boil  for  half 
an  hour;  then  strain  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
mix  with  the  sauce  a  table-spoonful  of  olive-oil. 


BROILED  SALMON. 

Cut  several  slices  of  fresh  salmon;  soak  them 
an  hour  in  a  mixture  of  sweet-oil,  chopped  parsley, 
and  shalots  minced  fine,  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Then  take  each  slice  with  the  seasoning  on  it,  and 
wrap  it  in  buttered  paper.  Broil  the  slices  on  a 
gridiron.  When  thoroughly  done,  take  off  the 
paper,  and  serve  up  the  salmon  with  melted  butter 
and  capers. 

Any  other  large  fish  may  be  dressed  like  salmon. 


SALT  COD-FISH. 

Let  it  soak  twenty-four  hours  in  cold  water, 
which  must  be  changed  several  times,  and  every 
time  you  change  it  pour  in  a  wine-glass  of  vinegar, 
which  will  greatly  improve  the  fish.  Boil  the  cod 
till  thoroughly  done ;  then  cut  the  flesh  into  very 
small  slips ;  mix  it  with  parsley,  butter,  vinegar, 
Cayenne  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  mace;  add  to  the 
mixture  some  boiled  onions,  mashed  potatoes,  and 
the  yolks  of  two  or  three  beaten  eggs.  Put  the  whole 
mixture  into  a  deep  dish,  and  make  it  up  into  the 
form  of  a  thick  round  cake.  Go  all  over  it  with  a 
bunch  of  feathers,  or  a  small  brush,  dipped  in 
sweet-oil ;  and  then  grate  bread  crumbs  all  over  it. 
Set  it  in  the  oven  till  brown.  Serve  it  up,  sur- 
rounded with  triangular  or  three-cornered  slices 
of  toast,  dipped  in  melted  butter. 

Halibut  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner, 
putting  salt  in  the  water  when  you  boil  it,  and  also 
in  the  seasoning. 

Fresh  cod  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


FISH.  61 

BROILED  FRESH  MACKEREL. 

Split  your  mackerel  down  the  back ;  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  cover  it  all  over  with  oil  or 
butter,  and  let  it  lay  for  half  an  hour  or  more ; 
then  broil  it,  pouring  on  it  whatever  of  the  season- 
ing may  be  left  in  the  dish. 

Serve  it  up,  with  sauce  in  a  boat.  Let  the  sauce 
be  of  melted  butter,  with  parsley,  and  a  little  lemon- 
juice,  or  vinegar. 

Or  you  may  broil  the  mackerel  whole,  having 
first  seasoned  it  as  above,  and  wrapped  it  in  oiled 
paper. 


BROILED  FRESH  SHAD. 

Having  split  the  shad  in  half,  cover  it  all  over 
with  a  seasoning  of  oil,  pepper,  salt,  chopped 
onions,  parsley,  and  laurel-leaf.  Let  it  lie  an  hour 
or  two  in  the  seasoning.  Then  broil  it,  covered 
with  the  seasoning,  and  adding  a  piece  of  butter. 

Or  you  may  cook  the  shad  whole.  Make  a  stuf- 
fing of  the  above  ingredients,  with  the  addition  of 
some  grated  bread ;  put  the  stuffing  into  the  shad, 
and  bake  it,  first  pouring  over  it  a  glass  of  white 
wine. 

Any  large  fresh  fish  may  be  baked  in  the  same 
manner. 

HASHED  FISH. 

Take  any  sort  of  cold  fish,  bone  it,  and  then 
chop  it  with  the  remains  of  a  cold  omelet,  and 
some  mushrooms  if  you  have  them.  Mix  with  it 
some  chopped  parsley,  a  little  butter,  a  slice  of 
bread  soaked  in  milk,  and  the  yolks  of  two  or  three 
hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together, 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  it  gently 
with  a  little  water  for  half  an  hour. 
F 


62  FISH. 

LOBSTER  PIE. 

Having  boiled  your  lobster,  take  out  the  meat 
from  the  shell,  season  it  with  salt,  mustard,  Cayenne 
pepper,  and  vinegar,  and  beat  it  well  in  a  mortar. 
Then  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
yolks  of  two  beaten  eggs,  and  two  ounces  or  more 
of  grated  bread  crumbs.  Make  some  puff-paste, 
put  in  the  mixture,  and  cover  it  with  a  lid  of  paste 
ornamented  with  leaves  or  flowers  of  the  same. 
Bake  it  slowly. 

OYSTER  LOAVES. 

Have  ready  some  small  loaves  or  rolls  of  bread. 
Cut  a  round  piece  out  of  the  top  of  each,  and 
scoop  out  the  crumb  or  soft  part.  Take  the'  liquor 
of  your  oysters,  put  into  it  the  crumbs,  with  a  little 
chopped  celery,  and  a  large  piece  of  butter.  As 
soon  as  it  boils,  pour  the  liquor  over  the  oysters, 
and  this  will  cook  them  sufficiently.  Fill  your 
loaves  with  the  oysters,  putting  into  each  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream.  Lay  on  again  the  piece  of 
crust  that  was  cut  out  of  the  top  of  each  loaf  or 
roll,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 


PART  THE  FIFTH. 


VEGETABLES. 


STEWED  LETTUCE. 

Wash  a  fine  lettuce,  and  tie  it  up  with  a  string 
passed  several  times  round  it,  to  keep  the  leaves 
together.  Put  it  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt. 
When  the  lettuce  has  boiled,  take  it  out  and  press 
it  to  squeeze  out  the  water,  but  be  careful  not  to 
break  it. 

Having  mixed,  in  a  stew-pan,  a  large  spoonful 
of  butter  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  add  half  a  pint 
of  cream  or  rich  milk ;  put  in  the  lettuce,  with  a 
very  little  salt,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  two 
lumps  of  sugar.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  Take  out 
the  lettuce,  stir  the  yolks  of  two  beaten  eggs  into 
the  sauce,  and  serve  all  up  together. 


STEWED  SPINACH. 

Take  young  spinach,  and  throw  it  into  boiling 
water  with  some  salt.  When  it  has  boiled,  take  it 
out,  drain  it,  and  lay  it  in  cold  water  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Then  drain  it  and  squeeze  it.  Cut  it 
small,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  large  piece 
of  butter.  After  it  has  stewed  slowly  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  add  a  spoonful  of  flour,  with  a  little 
salt,  sugar,  and  nutmeg.  Moisten  it  with  cream 
or  milk,  and  let  it  simmer  again  over  a  slow  fire 
for  another  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  serve  it  u,p, 
and  lay  on  it  slices  of  toasted  bread  dipped  in 
melted  butter. 

F2 


66  VEGETABLES. 


STEWED  CUCUMBERS. 

Lay  your  cucumbers  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour;  then  pare  them,  and  cut  them  into  slips 
about  as  long  as  your  little  finger ;  take  out  the 
seeds;  then  boil  the  cucumbers  a  few  minutes, 
with  a  little  salt.  Take  them  out,  and  drain  them 
well. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  some  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  a  little  cream.  Stew  your  cucumbers  in  it 
for  ten  minutes.  When  you  take  them  off,  stir  in 
the  yolks  of  two  beaten  eggs ;  and  if  you  choose, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  vinegar: 


STEWED  BEETS. 

Boil  some  beets.  Then  peel  and  cut  them  into 
slices.  Stew  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  with 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  some  onion  and 
parsley  chopped  fine,  a  little  vinegar,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  a  clove  of  garlic. 


STEWED  CARROTS. 

Scrape  and  wash  your  carrots.  Scald  them  in 
boiling  water  ;  then  drain  them,  and  cut  them  into 
long  slips.  Stew  them  in  milk  or  cream,  with  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  parsley.  When 
done,  take  them  out,  stir  into  the  sauce  the  yolks 
of  one  or  two  eggs,  and  a  lump  or  two  of  loaf- 
sugar,  and  pour  it  over  the  carrots. 


STEWED  CABBAGE. 

Having  washed  your  cabbage,  cut  it  in  four, 
and  throw  it  into  boiling  water  with  some  salt. 


VEGETABLES.  67 

When  it  has  boiled  till  quite  tender,  take  it  up, 
squeeze  out  the  water,  and  put  the  cabbage  to 
drain.  Then  lay  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  half  a 
pint  of  cream.  Stew  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  it  when  you  send  it  to  table. 
Cauliflowers  may  be  stewed  in  the  same  maimer 


STEWED  PEAS. 

Take  two  quarts  of  green  peas ;  put  them  into 
a  stew-pan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  the  heart  of  a  fine  lettuce 
cut  in  pieces,  a  bunch  of  mint,  three  or  four  lumps 
of  sugar,  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  little 
water.  Stir  all  together,  set  it  on  coals  and  let  it 
stew  gently  for  an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Having  taken  out  the  parsley,  add  a  piece  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour ;  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  just  before  you  send  it  to  table. 

You  may,  if  you  choose,  put  in  the  lettuce  with- 
out cutting  it  in  pieces ;  tie  it  up  with  the  bunch 
of  parsley  and  two  onions,  and  withdraw  the 
whole  before  you  dish  the  peas.  Serve  up  the  let- 
tuce in  another  dish. 


STEWED  BEANS. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  some  parsley  and  some 
chives  or  little  onions  chopped  fine,  some  mush- 
rooms (if  you  have  them)  chopped  also,  and  a 
large  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Add  a  glass 
of  white  wine  and  a  little  water.  Stir  all  together, 
and  then  put  in  as  many  beans  as  will  fill  a  quart 
measure  when  strung  and  cut  small ;  having  first 
soaked  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  cold  water. 
Let  them  stew  gently  on  hot  coals  till  quite  tender. 
Just  before  you  serve  them  up,  stir  in  the  yolks  of 


68  VEGETABLES. 

two  eggs.  You  may  substitute  for  the  wine  a 
tumbler  of  cream,  but  it  must  be  stirred  in  at  the 
last. 


STEWED  ONIONS. 

Boil  some  small  onions  with  salt,  and  then  drain 
hem.  Lay  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  piece  of 
Dutter,  and  sprinkle  them  with  flour,  pepper  and 
salt.  Pour  on  them  some  cream,  and  then  turn 
every  onion  with  a  spoon.  Stew  them  ten  minutes, 
and  serve  them  up. 

ONIONS  STEWED  IN  WINE. 

Boil  twenty  or  thirty  onions  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  salt,  a 
few  cloves,  and  a  laurel  leaf.  Then  take  out  the 
onions,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  some 
salt,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  pint  of 
red  wine.  Stew  them  another  quarter  of  an  hour, 
and  serve  them  up  garnished  with  pieces  of  toast 
dipped  in  the  sauce. 


STEWED  MUSHROOMS. 

Having  peeled  and  washed  your  mushrooms, 
drain  them,  and  stew  them  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  adding  a  little 
flour  and  warm  water.  When  they  are  done,  stir 
into  the  sauce  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  and 
some  cream.  Toast  and  butter  a  slice  of  bread. 
Lay  it  on  the  dish  under  the  mushrooms,  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  them. 

Put  in  a  small  onion  with  the  mushrooms,  that 
you  may  know  by  its  turning  almost  black,  whether 
there  is  a  poisonous  one  among  them.  If  the  onion 
turns  black,  throw  away  all  the  mushrooms. 


VEGETABLES.  69 

STEWED  POTATOES. 

Boil  eight  or  nine  large  potatoes  with  a  little 
salt,  and  then  peel  and  cut  them  in  slices.  Put 
into  a  stew-pan  a  large  piece  of  butter,  a  spoonful 
of  flour,  some  salt,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Add 
a  half-pint  of  cream,  and  mix  all  together.  When 
this  sauce  boils,  put  in  your  sliced  potatoes,  and  let 
them  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


STEWED  POTATOES  WITH  TURNIPS. 

Pare  and  boil  an  equal  quantity  of  turnips  and 
potatoes.  When  done,  drain  and  mash  them.  Melt 
some  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  and  add  to  it  a  little 
mustard.  Stew  the  mixed  potatoes  and  turnips  in 
it,  with  a  small  quantity  of  hot  milk,  for  about  ten 
minutes. 


ASPARAGUS  WITH  CREAM. 

Wash  and  boil  four  or  five  bundles  of  asparagus. 
Have  ready  a  pint  of  cream,  or  a  pint  of  milk, 
with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  stirred  into  it.  Take 
four  large  rolls  of  bread,  and  cut  a  round  piece  out 
of  the  top  of  each.  Scoop  out  the  crumb  from 
the  inside  of  the  rolls,  and  put  it  into  the  cream 
with  the  heads  of  the  asparagus,  of  which  you 
must  save  out  a  sufficient  number  (with  a  small 
piece  of  the  stalk  left  on  each)  to  stick  the  rolls 
with.    Make  holes  in  the  top-pieces  of  the  rolls. 

Fry  the  rolls  in  butter.  Put  the  most  of  the 
asparagus  heads  into  the  cream  mixed  with  the 
crumb  of  the  rolls,  and  simmer  it  awhile  over  a 
slow  fire.  When  the  rolls  are  fried,  fill  their  cavi- 
ties with  the  mixture.  Stick  the  tops  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  asparagus,  and  lay  them  on  the 
rolls. 


70  VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus  may  be  simply  boiled  with  salt,  and 
served  up  on  toasted  bread  dipped  in  oil,  and  eaten 
with  oil  sauce. 


POTATOES  STEWED  WHOLE. 

Boil  two  dozen  small  new  potatoes,  with  some 
salt.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  half  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated,  half  a 
nutmeg  grated,  some  salt,  two  or  three  lumps  of 
sugar,  and  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil.  Lay 
the  potatoes  in  this  mixture,  squeeze  over  them 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let  them  stew  gently 
about  ten  minutes. 

FRIED  POTATOES. 

Make  a  batter  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a 
little  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  oil,  a  table-spoonful 
of  brandy,  and  sufficient  flour  or  grated  bread  to 
thicken  it.  Have  ready  some  large  cold  potatoes 
cut  in  slices.  Dip  each  slice  in  the  batter,  and  fry 
them  in  butter. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Wash  a  fine  large  cauliflower,  and  cut  it  into 
quarters.  Having  boiled  some  water  with  salt, 
throw  the  cauliflower  into  it,  and  boil  it  till  you 
can  nip  it  easily  with  your  fingers.  Take  it  out 
and  drain  it.  Then  put  it  into  a  pan  with  salt, 
pepper  and  vinegar,  and  let  it  lie  half  an  hour, 
turning  it  frequently. 

Make  the  following  batter,  which  must  be  pre- 
pared half  an  hour  or  more  before  it  is  wanted, 
that  it  may  have  time  to  rise.  Take  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  three  beaten  eggs,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  melted  in  a  little  warm  water, 
a  spoonful  of  sweet  oil,  and  a  spoonful  of  brandy 


VEGETABLES.  71 

Stir  all  together ;  and  if  you  find  it  too  thin,  add  a 
little  more  flour ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  set  half  an 
hour.  Then  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  and  stir  them  hard  into  the  batter.  Dip  your 
quarters  of  cauliflower  into  this  mixture,  and  fry 
them  of  a  fine  light  brown. 

When  the  cauliflower  is  done,  let  it  remain  in 
the  pan  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  you  send  it  to 
table.     Lay  fried  parsley  round  it. 

Broccoli  may  be  fried  in  the  same  manner. 


FRIED  CELERY. 

Take  ten  or  twelve  fine  stalks  of  celery.  Cut 
them  into  pieces  about  six  inches  long,  and  lay 
them  an  hour  in  salt  and  water.  Drain  them, 
spread  them  on  a  dish,  and  sprinkle  them  with 
powdered  sugar.  Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk, 
and  grated  bread ;  allowing  four  eggs  to  a  pint  of 
milk.  Dip  each  piece  of  celery  into  the  batter,  and 
fry  them  in  butter. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS.* 

Peel,  wash,  and  drain  your  mushrooms,  and 
then  cut  them  in  pieces.  Make  a  square  case  of 
white  paper,  and  butter  it  well.  Fill  it  with  the 
mushrooms  mixed  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Broil  them  on  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  and 
serve  them  up  in  the  paper. 

If  you  choose,  you  may  mix  with  the  mush 
rooms  some  chopped  onion  and  sweet-herbs. 

*  In  gathering  mushrooms,  take  only  those  that  are  of  a  pale 
pink  color  underneath,  and  a  dull  white  or  pearl  color  on  the  top. 
Those  that  are  perfectly  white  above,  or  whose  under  side  is  white, 
yellow,  or  any  color  but  pale  pink,  are  unfit  to  eat,  and  poisonous. 

After  being  gathered  awhile,  the  pink  tinge  changes  to  brown, 
but  it  always  appears  on  the  good  ones  while  in  the  ground. 


72  VEGETABLES. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE.  (Choux  farcis.) 

Take  a  large  cabbage,  with  a  hard  full  head ; 
put  it  into  boiling  water  with  some  salt,  and  let  it 
boil  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Then  take  it  out 
and  drain  it.  Cut  off  the  stalk  close  to  the  bottom, 
so  that  the  cabbage  may  stand  upright  on  the  dish, 
and  then  carefully  take  out  the  inside  leaves  or 
heart ;  leaving  the  outside  leaves  whole. 

Chop  fine  what  you  have  taken  out  of  the  inside, 
and  chop  also  some  cold  ham  and  veal,  or  cold 
chicken.  Likewise  four  eggs  boiled  hard.  Mix 
together  the  chopped  eggs,  the  ham  and  veal,  the 
cabbage  heart,  and  some  grated  bread,  adding 
salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the  cabbage  with  this  stuff- 
ing, and  tie  tape  round  it  to  keep  the  outside  leaves 
together.  Then  put  it  into  a  deep  stew-pan,  with 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
an  onion  stuck  full  of  cloves.  Let  it  simmer  over 
a  slow  fire  for  two  hours  or  more. 

When  it  is  done,  take  off  the  tape,  set  the  cab- 
bage upright  in  a  dish,  and  pour  melted  butter 
over  it. 

Lettuce  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 


STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Take  eight  very  large  potatoes,  wash  and  pare 
them.  Make  a  small  slit  or  incision  in  each  of 
them,  and  scoop  out  carefully  with  a  knife  as 
much  of  the  inside  as  will  leave  all  round  a  shell 
about  the  thickness  of  two  cents.  Then  make  a 
force-meat  of  the  substance  you  have  taken  out  of 
the  inside,  mixing  it  with  two  minced  onions,  a 
small  piece  of  minced  cold  ham  or  pork,  about 
two  ounces  of  butter,  and  a  little  parsley ;  adding 


VEGETABLES.  73 

the  yolks  of  two  or  three  beaten  eggs.  Mix  the 
stuffing  thoroughly,  by  pounding  it  in  a  mortar. 

Butter  the  inside  of  the  potatoes,  and  fill  them 
with  this  mixture.  Then  having  buttered  a  large 
dish,  lay  your  potatoes  in  it  separately.  Bake 
them  half  an  hour,  or  till  they  are  of  a  fine  brown. 

When  you  mash  potatoes,  moisten  them  with 
milk  or  cream,  adding  a  little  salt.  Heap  them  up 
on  the  dish  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid.  Smooth  the 
sides  of  the  pyramid  with  the  back  of  a  spoon, 
and  brown  it  by  holding  over  it  a  red-hot  shovel. 


STUFFED  CUCUMBERS. 

Cut  off  one  end  of  each  of  the  cucumbers,  and 
scoop  out  all  the  seeds  with  a  fork.  Then  pare 
them.  Prepare  a  stuffing  made  of  bread  crumbs, 
cold  meat  minced,  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet-herbs. 
Fill  your  cucumbers  with  it,  and  fasten  on  with  a 
skewer  the  pieces  you  have  cut  off  from  their 
ends.  Sow  up  every  one  separately  in  a  thin 
cloth.  Put  them  into  a  pan  with  butter,  flour,  a 
bunch  of  sweet-herbs,  and  a  little  warm  water 
Let  them  stew  very  slowly  for  about  two  hours, 
and  then  take  them  out.  Remove  the  cloths,  and 
serve  up  the  cucumbers  with  the  sauce  under  them. 


STUFFED  TOMATAS. 

Scoop  out  the  inside  of  a  dozen  large  tomatas, 
without  spoiling  their  shape.  Pass  the  inside 
through  a  sieve,  and  then  mix  it  with  grated 
bread,  chopped  sweet-herbs,  nutmeg,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Stew  it  ten  minutes,  with  a  laurel  leaf, 
or  two  peach  leaves.  Remove  the  leaves,  and 
stuff  the  tomatas  with  the  mixture,  tying  a  string 
round  each  to  keep  them  in  shape.  Sprinkle  them 
G 


74  VEGETABLES. 

all  over  with  rasped  bread-crust.  Set  them  in  a 
buttered  dish,  and  bake  them  in  an  oven.  Take 
off  the  strings,  and  serve  up  the  tomatas. 

Egg-plants  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 


CAULIFLOWERS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Having  washed  and  boiled  your  cauliflowers  in 
salt  and  water,  drain  them  well.  Make  a  white 
sauce  in  a  small  pan,  with  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  a  little  milk.  Pour  some  of  this  sauce  into  the 
bottom  of  a  dish  that  will  bear  the  fire.  Chop  your 
cauliflower,  and  spread  a  layer  of  it  on  the  sauce. 
Then  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  rich  cheese,  grated 
and  slightly  sprinkled  with  pepper.  Then  spread 
on  the  remainder  of  the  cauliflower,  and  then 
another  layer  of  peppered  cheese,  and  so  on  till 
your  dish  is  nearly  full.  Pour  over  it  the  rest  of 
the  sauce.  Prepare  two  or  three  handfuls  of  gra- 
ted bread,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  grated  cheese. 
Spread  it  all  over  the  surface  of  the  last  layer  of 
cauliflower,  and  smooth  it  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon.  Allow  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese  to 
each  cauliflower. 

Put  the  dish  in  a  slow  oven  about  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  before  you  serve  it  up,  and  bake  it  till  a 
brown  crust  forms  on  the  outside.  Clear  off  the 
butter  from  the  edges  of  the  dish,  and  send  it  to 
table  hot. 

Broccoli  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 


RAGOOED  CABBAGE. 

Wash  a  fine  savoy  cabbage,  and  boil  it  for  half 
an  hour  in  salt  and  water.  Then  take  it  out,  drain 
it,  and  lay  it  for  ten  minutes  in  cold  water.     Af- 


VEGETABLES.  75 

terwards  squeeze  and  drain  it  well,  and  take  out 
the  stalk.  Chop  the  cabbage  slightly,  and  put  it 
into  a  stew-pan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour.  Season  it 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  it  with  a  little 
water.  Let  it  stew  slowly  for  an  hour,  and  then 
serve  it  up. 

Cauliflowers  or  broccoli  may  be  done  in  the 
same  manner. 


RAGOOED  MUSHROOMS. 

Take  a  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms.  When  they 
are  peeled  and  the  stalks  cut  off,  put  the  mush- 
rooms into  a  stew-pan  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  a  small  onion, 
a  few  chives  chopped  fine,  some  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg.  Let  it  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of 
'in  hour.  Before  it  goes  to  table,  stir  in  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs. 

If  the  onion  has  turned  blue  or  black,  throw  the 
whole  away,  as  it  is  evident  that  some  poisonous 
ones  are  among  the  mushrooms. 


76  PUREES. 


PUREES. 


The  word  Puree  cannot  be  exactly  translated, 
as  there  is  nothing  in  the  English  language  that 
gives  precisely  the  same  idea.  In  French  it  is 
generally  applied  to  a  certain  manner  of  cooking 
vegetables  that  converts  them  into  a  substance 
resembling  marmalade,  which,  when  the  coarser 
parts  are  strained  out,  leaves  a  fine  smooth  jelly. 

It  is  served  up  with  meat. 


PUREE  OF  TURNIPS. 

Wash  and  pare  some  of  the  finest  turnips.  Cut 
them  into  small  pieces,  and  let  them  lie  for  half  an 
hour  in  cold  water.  Then  take  them  out  and  drain 
them.  Put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  large 
piece  of  butter  and  some  salt  and  pepper.  Moist- 
en them  with  a  little  broth  or  boiling  water.  Let 
them  stew  over  a  very  slow  fire,  for  five  or  six 
hours,  stirring  them  frequently.  Then  rub  them 
through  a  sieve,  and  serve  up  the  jelly  with  roast 
meat. 

PUREE  OF  CELERY. 

Wash  your  celery,  peel  it,  and  stew  it  s.owly 
for  three  or  four  hours,  with  salt,  and  a  very  little 
water.  Then  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  and  season 
it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg  to  your  taste. 


PUREE  OF  ONIONS. 

Take  thirty  onions ;  cut  them  in  slices  and  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and 


PUREES.  77 

a  grated  nutmeg.  Let  them  stew  slowly  till  they 
are  of  a  fine  brown  color,  and  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  broth  or  warm  water. 

When  it  has   attained  the  proper  consistence, 
strain  it  and  serve  it  up. 


PUREE  OF  MUSHROOMS. 

Peel  a  pint  of  mushrooms,  cut  them  in  pieces,  and 
put  them  in  a  pan  with  as  much  cold  water  as  will 
keep  them  from  burning.  Throw  in  with  them  a 
small  onion  to  test  their  goodness ;  as,  if  there  is  a 
bad  or  poisonous  one  among  them,  the  onion  will 
turn  of  a  bluish  black  while  cooking.  In  that  case, 
throw  them  all  away. 

Stew  them  slowly  till  they  have  lost  all  shape 
and  have  become  an  undistinguishable  mass.  Then 
strain  them. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  large  piece  of  butter,  or  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  two  lumps  of  sugar.  Add 
your  puree,  and  let  it  stew  again  for  about  five 
minutes.  When  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly. beaten,  and  a  spoonful 
of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Put  it  in  the  middle  of  a 
dish,  and  lay  round  it  thin  slices  of  fried  bread  or 
toast. 


PUREE  OF  BEANS. 

Having  strung  and  cut  your  beans  till  you  have 
a  quart,  throw  them  into  boiling  water,  with  a 
little  salt.  Let  them  remain  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Then  drain  them,  and  throw  into  cold  water  to 
green  them.  After  they  have  lain  half  an  hour  in 
the  cold  water,  take  them  out  and  drain  them 
again. 

G2 


78  PUREES. 

Put  a  large  piece  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  with 
some  pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  flour. 
Add  your  beans,  and  cover  them  with  broth  or 
warm  water.  Put  in  a  bunch  of  sweet-herbs  cut 
small,  and  stew  the  whole  very  slowly  till  it  has 
dissolved  into  a  mass.  Then  strain  it.  Put  a 
piece  of  butter  into  the  puree,  and  serve  it  up. 


PUREE  OF  GREEN  PEAS. 

Take  a  quart  of  shelled  green  peas.  Wash  them, 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  water  enough 
to  cover  them,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  laurel  leaf  or  a 
couple  of  peach-leaves,  and  a  bunch  of  mint. 

Let  them  stew  very  slowly ;  and  if  necessary 
moisten  them  occasionally  with  a  little  warm  water 
or  broth.  Stir  them  frequently,  that  they  may  not 
stick  to  the  pan.  When  they  become  of  the  con- 
sistence of  marmalade,  strain  it.  Chop  an  onion 
fine,  fry  it  in  butter,  and  have  it  ready  to  mix  with 
the  puree. 

Dried  split  peas  may  be  made  into  a  puree  in 
the  same  manner. 

Purees  may  be  made  in  a  similar  manner  of  dif- 
ferent sorts  of  meat,  poultry  &c.  seasoned,  stewed 
slowly  to  a  jelly,  then  strained  through  a  cullender 
or  sieve,  and  taken  as  soups. 


EGGS.  79 

EGGS,  &c. 


In  choosing  eggs,  hold  them  up  against  the  light, 
and  if  you  see  that  the  yolk  is  round,  and  the  white 
thin  and  clear,  you  may  suppose  them  to  be  good. 
But  if  the  yolk  appears  to  be  broken  and  mixed 
with  the  white,  giving  it  a  thick  cloudy  look,  you 
may  be  sure  that  the  egg  is  bad.  Eggs  may  be 
preserved  by  keeping  them  in  a  keg  of  lime-water, 
or  by  greasing  each  egg  all  over  with  dripping, 
and  putting  them  into  a  tight  vessel  rilled  with 
wood-ashes,  placing  them  all  with  their  small  ends 
downwards.  You  may  also  keep  them  by  burying 
them  in  salt.  Still  they  are  never  so  good  as  when 
quite  fresh. 

When  you  break  eggs  for  use,  do  every  one 
separately,  in  a  saucer.  If  you  find  the  egg  good, 
throw  it  into  the  pan  in  which  they  are  to  be 
beaten.  If  you  meet  with  a  bad  one,  throw  it 
away  and  wash  the  saucer  or  get  a  clean  one.  A 
single  bad  egg  will  make  the  whole  mixture  heavy, 
spungy,  and  of  an  unpleasant  taste. 


BOILED  EGGS. 

When  the  water  boils  hard,  put  in  the  eggs,  and 
let  them  boil  exactly  three  minutes.  Then  take 
them  out,  and  cover  them  up  for  about  a  minute, 
which  will  greatly  improve  them.  Send  them  to 
table  wrapped  in  a  napkin,  and  laid  in  a  deep  dish. 


FRIED  EGGS. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan.     When 
it  ceases  to  hiss,  put  in  the  yolks  only  of  your 


80  EGGS. 

eggs.  Season  them  with  pepper  and  salt.  When 
fried,  color  them  by  holding  over  them  a  red-hot 
shovel. 


STEWED  EGGS. 

Melt  some  butter  in  a  dish  that  will  bear  the  fire. 
Add  to  it  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  little  milk  in  the 
proportion  of  a  table-spoonful  to  each  egg.  Mix 
them  well  together.  Then  lay  over  it  the  yolks  of 
your  eggs,  first  ascertaining  that  they  are  all  good. 
Let  it  stew  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  and 
color  it  by  holding  over  it  a  red-hot  shovel.  The 
eggs  must  not  be  allowed  to  get  hard,  but  the  sur- 
face should  be  soft  and  perfectly  smooth  and  even. 

Before  you  put  in  the  eggs,  you  may  stir  into 
the  mixture  some  heads  of  boiled  asparagus. 


STUFFED  EGGS. 

Boil  twelve  eggs  hard.  Take  off  the  shell,  and 
cut  each  egg  in  half.  Take  out  the  yolks,  and 
pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter ;  a  nutmeg ;  some  grated  bread 
that  has  been  soaked  in  milk;  a  little  salt;  and 
if  you  choose,  some  minced  sweet-herbs.  Fill 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  this  stuffing,  heaping  it 
up,  and  smoothing  it  into  a  round  even  shape. 
Butter  a  dish,  and  spread  over  the  inside  a  thin 
layer  of  the  stuffing.  Arrange  in  it  all  your  halves 
of  eggs,  the  bottoms  downwards.  Put  them  into  an 
oven,  the  lid  of  which  must  be  hot.  Let  them  set 
about  five  minutes,  and  then  send  them  to  table. 


EGG  SNOW. 

Take  a  quart  of  milk,  and  stir  into  it  two  spoon- 
fuls of  rose-water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 


PANCAKES OMELETS.  81 

white  sugar,  with  a  powdered  nutmeg.  Add  by- 
degrees  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  well  beaten.  Boil 
the  whole  together,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  so  as  to 
make  a  thick  smooth  custard.  If  you  keep  it  too 
long  on  the  fire,  it  will  be  lumpy.  Set  it  away  to 
get  cold  in  a  deep  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff'  froth  that  will  stand  alone,  adding 
to  it  twelve  drops  of  essence  of  lemon.  Heap  it 
on  the  dish  of  custard  so  as  to  look  like  a  pile  of 
snow ;  or  you  may  drop  it  with  a  large  spoon,  so 
as  to  form  separate  balls.  On  the  top  of  each  ball 
you  may  lay  a  tea-spoonful  of  stiff  currant-jelly. 


PANCAKES. 

Beat  together  a  quart  of  sifted  flour,  six  eggs,  a 
table-spoonful  of  brandy,  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  little 
salt,  and  sufficient  water  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  or  substi- 
tute a  little  sweet-oil.  Pour  in  a  ladleful  of  the 
batter,  and  let  it  spread  into  a  circular  form.  When 
it  is  slightly  brown  on  one  side,  turn  it  carefully 
on  the  other.  Serve  them  up  with  white  sugar 
grated  over  each. 

You  may  color  them  pink,  by  stirring  into  the 
mixture  some  of  the  juice  of  a  beet-root,  which  has 
been  boiled  and  then  beaten  in  a  mortar. 


OMELETS. 

Cheese  Omelet — Grate  some  rich  cheese,  and 
mix  it  gradually  with  your  eggs  while  beating 
them.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  some 
butter  in  a  frying-pan.  Put  in  your  omelet,  and 
fry  it  first  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the  other. 
When  you  dish  it  up,  fold  it  over  in  half. 


82  MACCARONI MACCARONI  PIE. 

Bread  Omelet. — Put  two  handfuls  or  more  of 
bread  crumbs  into  half  a  pint  of  cream,  with  a 
grated  nutmeg  and  a  little  salt.  When  the  bread 
has  absorbed  all  the  cream,  stir  it  into  the  eggs  as 
you  beat  them  for  the  omelet.  Fry  it  in  butter, 
and  when  dished,  fold  one  half  over  the  other. 

Lobster  Omelet. — Beat  in  a  mortar  the  flesh  of  a 
boiled  lobster,  adding,  at  times,  a  little  butter ;  and 
season  it  with  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  it  gradually 
into  the  eggs  while  beating  them.    Fry  it  in  butter. 

Onion  Omelet. — Boil  some  onions;  mince  them 
fine,  and  moisten  them  with  milk.     Stir  them  into 
the  eggs  as  you  beat  them. 
i 

Ham  Omelet — Is  made  with  grated  cold  ham, 
stirred  into  the  eggs  while  beating. 

Omelets  may  be  seasoned  in  the  same  manner 
with  parsley,  chopped  sweet-herbs,  or  mushrooms. 
Also  with  minced  oysters. 


MACCARONI. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  with  two  ounces 
of  butter,  some  whole  pepper,  and  a  little  salt.  Do 
not  let  it  boil  long  enough  for  the  maccaroni  to 
lose  its  shape.  When  done,  mix  with  it  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  rich  cheese,  scraped  or  grated.  But- 
ter a  deep  dish,  and  put  the  mixture  into  it.  Then 
set  it  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  the  oven.  Brown 
the  top  with  a  red-hot  shovel. 


MACCARONI  PIE. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni,  and  put  it  into 
a  stew-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  little  salt 


BLANCMANGE  IN  EGGS.  83 

and  pepper,  and  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Stew 
it  till  dry.  Then  grate  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fine  cheese,  and  mix  it  with  the  maccaroni,  adding 
another  ounce  of  butter.  Set  it  away  to  get  cold. 
Take  another  pan,  which  must  be  very  deep, 
with  a  flat  bottom,  and  nearly  the  shape  of  a  drum. 
Butter  the  inside.  Make  a  good  paste,  and  cover 
with  it  the  whole  interior  of  the  pan,  sides  and 
bottom.  Put  in  the  maccaroni.  Cover  the  pie  with 
a  lid  of  paste.  Bake  it  at  least  half  an  hour.  When 
done,  loosen  it  from  the  pan  and  turn  it  out  on  a 
dish.  It  will  be  in  the  form  of  a  drum,  if  the  pan 
was  of  that  shape. 


BLANCMANGE  IN  EGGS. 

Take  two  ounces  of  shelled  sweet  almonds,  and 
one  ounce  of  shelled  bitter  almonds.  Blanch  them 
by  throwing  them  into  scalding  water  to  make  the 
skins  peel  off  easily ;  then  put  them  in  cold  water ; 
wipe  them  dry  afterwards,  and  pound  them  in  a 
mortar,  adding  at  times  a  little  rose-water. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  warm  water, 
and  then  stir  it  into  a  quart  of  cream.  Add  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  broken  loaf-sugar,  and  a  wine- 
glass of  rose-water.  Boil  it  hard  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  stir  it  all  the  time.  Then  strain  it 
through  a  linen  bag,  and  put  it  into  egg-cups,  or 
into  the  halves  of  egg-shells  nicely  and  evenly 
trimmed,  and  set  it  away  in  a  cold  place  to 
congeal. 

Have  ready  some  calves-feet  jelly  (made  ac- 
cording to  the  directions  given  in  the  article 
"Chickens  in  Jelly");  and  when  the  blancmange  is 
firm,  take  out  a  small  piece  from  the  middle  of 
each  cupful,  and  replace  it  with  a  lump  of  the  jelly, 
put  in  so  as  to  look  like  the  yolk  of  the  egg.  Or 
if  more  convenient,  you  need  not  put  in  the  jelly 


84  BLANCMANGE  IN  EGGS. 

till  you  have  taken  the  blancmange  out  of  the  cups 
or  egg-shells,  which  must  be  done  by  wetting  the 
moulds  with  warm  water  on  the  outside. 

The  jelly  for  this  purpose  must  be  very  high- 
colored,  by  means  of  brandy,  or  dark  sweet  wine. 

If  nicely  managed,  the  blancmange  and  jelly 
will  look  like  eggs  cut  in  half.  Lay  them  in  a 
circle  round  a  dish  that  contains  something  high 
and  ornamental, — for  instance,  a  pyramid  of  ice- 
cream. 


PART  THE  SIXTH. 


H 


PASTRY,  CAKES,  &< 


FRENCH  PASTE. 

Sift  a  quart  of  flour,  and  lay  it  in  a  pan.  Make 
a  hole  in  the  middle,  and  put  into  it  the  white  of  an 
egg  slightly  beaten,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Pour  in  gradually  as 
much  cold  water  as  will  moisten  it.  Mix  it  well 
with  your  hands,  as  rapidly  as  possible,  and  see 
that  no  lumps  are  left  in  it.  Set  it  away  to  cool, 
and  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  roll  it  out,  and  spread 
over  it  half  a  pound  of  butter  which  has  been  kept 
in  ice.  Then  fold  up  the  paste  with  the  four  sides 
laid  one  over  another,  so  as  entirely  to  inclose  the 
butter,  and  set  it  for  half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place. 
Then  roll  it  again ;  fold  it,  and  give  it  another  roll. 
Set  it  away  again ;  and  in  half  an  hour  roll  it  out 
twice  more,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


PUFF  PASTE. 

May  be  made  with  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  sifted  flour.  The  butter 
must  be  washed  in  cold  water,  and  then  squeezed 
very  hard,  and  made  up  into  a  lump.  Divide  it 
into  eight  parts.  Mix  one  part  of  the  butter  with 
the  flour,  adding  just  enough  of  water  to  moisten  it. 
Roll  it  out ;  spread  over  it  a  second  portion  of  the 
butter ;  flour  it ;  fold  it  up,  and  roll  it  out  again, 
adding  another  division  of  the  butter.  Repeat  this 
till  you  get  in  all  the  butter,  a  piece  at  a  time,  fold- 
ing and  rolling  the  paste  with  each  separate  por- 
tion of  the  butter.    Then  set  it  away  to  cool.    If  it 


88  PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C. 

sets  several  hours,  it  will  be  the  better  for  it ;  anci 
better  still  if  the  paste  is  made  the  night  before  it 
is  wanted ;  always  keeping  it  in  a  cold  place. 

While  buttering  and  rolling,  do  every  thing  as 
quickly  as  possible. 

Before  you  put  it  into  the  dishes,  roll  it  out  once 
more.  It  is  difficult  in  warm  weather  to  make 
good  puff  paste  without  a  marble  table,  or  slab,  to 
roll  it  on. 


CREAM  TARTS. 

Mix  together  a  quart  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  a  little  salt,  and  two  beaten  eggs.  Add  a 
little  cold  water ;  make  it  into  a  paste,  and  set  it 
away  to  cool.  Then  roll  it  out  again.  Cut  it  into 
round  shapes  with  the  edge  of  a  tumbler.  Lay 
round  each  a  rim  made  of  an  even  strip  of  the 
paste,  and  notch  it  handsomely.  Bake  them  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  take  them  from  the 
oven.  Beat  together  a  pint  of  cream,  four  eggs, 
and  four  table-spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Fill 
the  tarts  with  this  mixture,  grate  nutmeg  over  each, 
and  bake  them  again  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


ALMOND  TARTS. 

Blanch  half  a  pound  of  shelled  sweet  almonds 
and  three  ounces  of  shelled  bitter  almonds.  Beat 
them,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a  mortar,  mixing  them 
well,  and  adding  at  times  a  little  rose-water. 
When  done,  mix  with  them  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar  powdered,  and  the  juice  and  grated 
peel  of  half  a  lemon. 

Have  ready  some  fine  paste.  Cut  it  into  circular 
pieces  about  the  size  and  thickness  of  a  dollar. 
Put  into  each  piece  of  paste  some  of  the  almond 


PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C.  89 

mixture,  heaping  it  up  in  the  centre.  Cover  them 
with  lids  of  the  same,  and  crimp  the  edges  very 
neatly.  Bake  them  about  half  an  hour,  and  grate 
sugar  over  them  when  done. 


RISSOLES. 

Make  some  fine  paste,  and  cut  it  out  with  the 
edge  of  a  tumbler.  Have  ready  some  minced 
veal,  seasoned  in  the  best  manner,  or  some  chopped 
oysters,  or  any  sort  of  force-meat,  and  lay  some 
of  it  on  one  half  of  each  piece  of  paste.  Then 
turn  over  it  the  other  half,  so  as  to  inclose  the 
meat.  Crimp  the  edges.  Put  some  butter  into  a 
frying-pan.  Lay  the  rissoles  into  it,  and  fry  them 
of  a  light  brown. 

They  should  be  in  the  shape  of  a  half-moon. 


ALMOND  CUSTARDS. 

Blanch  and  pound  in  a  mortar  half  a  pound  of 
shelled  sweet  almonds,  and  three  ounces  of  peach- 
kernels,  or  shelled  bitter  almonds,  adding  sufficient 
rose-water  to  moisten  them.  When  they  are  all 
pounded  to  a  paste,  mix  with  them  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar,  and  boil  them  in  a 
quart  of  milk  or  cream.  Then  set  it  away  to  cook 
When  cold,  stir  eight  beaten  eggs  into  it.  Put  the 
mixture  into  cups.  Set  them  in  an  iron  oven  half 
filled  with  water,  and  bake  them. 


VANILLA  CUSTARDS. 

Cut  a  vanilla  bean  into  slips,  and  boil  them  in  a 
quart  of  milk,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white 
sugar.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
112 


90  PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C. 

and  then  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  stir  into 
it  eight  beaten  eggs,  having  left  out  the  whites  of 
four.  Put  the  mixture  into  cups,  set  them  in  water 
and  bake  them.  Color  them  when  done,  by  hold- 
ing over  them  a  red-hot  shovel.  When  cold,  grate 
on  sugar. 

Lemon  Custards  are  made  in  the  same  manner ; 
substituting  for  the  vanilla  bean  the  grated  rind  of 
a  large  fresh  lemon. 


CHOCOLATE  CUSTARDS. 

Cut  into  pieces  half  a  pound  of  the  best  choco- 
late. Pour  on  it  sufficient  milk  to  prevent  its  burn- 
ing, and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  After  you  remove 
it  from  the  fire,  have  ready  a  pint  of  boiling  milk 
or  cream,  and  pour  it  on  the  chocolate.  Beat  to- 
gether the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
two  only,  and  stir  them  into  the  chocolate  with 
two  ounces,  or  more,  of  loaf-sugar.  Put  the  mix- 
ture into  cups,  set  them  in  an  oven  with  water  in 
it,  and  bake  them.  Beat  the  six  remaining  whites 
of  eggs  to  a  froth,  adding  a  very  little  sugar,  and 
heap  some  of  the  froth  on  each  custard.  You  may 
lay  on  the  top  of  each  heap  of  froth  one  of  the 
bonbons  or  confections  called  chocolate-nuts. 


COFFEE  CUSTARDS. 

Take  two  ounces  of  roasted  coffee  and  two 
ounces  of  raw  coffee.  Pound  them  together  in  a 
mortar,  but  do  not  grind  them.  Boil  this  coffee  in 
a  quart  of  rich  milk.  Let  it  get  cold,  and  then 
strain  it.  Stir  into  it  two  ounces  of  powdered  loaf- 
sugar,  and  two  large  spoonfuls  of  cream.  Beat 
eight  eggs,  omitting  the  whites  of  four.   Stir  them 


PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C.  91 

gradually  into  the  coffee.  Put  it  into  cups,  and 
bake  the  custards  in  an  oven  with  water.  Grate 
white  sugar  over  the  tops  when  cold. 


TEA  CUSTARDS. 

Boil  a  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  pour  it 
(while  boiling)  on  three  ounces  of  the  best  green 
tea.  Add  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar.  Cover  it  and 
set  it  away.  Take  eight  eggs,  and  beat  them  well, 
leaving  out  the  whites  of  four  ;  and  when  the  tea 
is  cold,  stir  in  the  eggs.  Then  strain  the  whole 
mixture ;  put  it  into  cups,  and  bake  them  in  an 
oven  with  water.  Grate  sugar  over  the  top  of  each. 


RICE  POTTAGE. 

Put  six  table-spoonfuls  of  rice  into  a  pint  of 
water,  and  boil  it  till  quite  soft.  Drain  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  put  the  rice  into  a  quart  of  milk  with 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  three  or  four 
peach-leaves,  or  a  few  peach-kernels.  Boil  it,  and 
before  you  serve  it  up,  take  out  the  peach-leaves 
or  kernels,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 


APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Pare  and  core  some  fine  large  pippins,  and  cut 
them  into  round  slices.  Soak  them  in  brandy  for 
two  or  three  hours.  Make  a  batter,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  four  eggs  to  a  table-spoonful  of  olive- 
oil,  a  table  spoonful  of  rose-water,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  ^brandy,  the  same  quantity  of  cold  water. 
Thicken  the  batter  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
flour  stirred  in  by  degrees,  and  mix  it  two  or  three 


92  PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C 

hours  before  it  is  wanted,  that  it  may  be  light  by 
fermentation. 

Put  some  butter  into  a  frying-pan.  Dip  each 
slice  of  apple  into  the  batter,  and  fry  them  brown. 
Then  drain  them,  grate  white  sugar  over  them, 
and  send  them  to  table. 

Peach  Fritters  may  be  made  in  the  same  way, 
but  the  peaches  must  be  cut  into  quarters. 


BREAD  FRITTERS. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk  with  cinnamon  and  sugar 
to  your  taste.  When  done,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful 
of  rose-water.  Cut  some  slices  of  bread  into  a 
circular  shape.  Soak  them  in  the  milk  till  they 
have  absorbed  it.  Then  drain  them.  Have  ready 
some  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Dip  the  slices  of 
bread  into  it,  and  fry  them  in  butter.  Serve  them 
up  strewed  with  powdered  sugar. 


RICE  CAKE. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  rice  and  wash  it  well. 
Put  it  into  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  and  boil  it 
soft.  Let  it  get  cold.  Then  stir  into  it  alternately 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter, eight  eggs  well  beaten  (having  left  out  the 
whites  of  four),  and  a  wine-glass  of  rose-water,  01 
else  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon.  Mix  all  well. 
Butter  a  mould  or  a  deep  pan  with  straight  sides, 
and  spread  grated  bread  crumbs  all  over  its  inside 
Put  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of 
an  hour. 

Ground  rice  is  best  for  this  cake. 

If  any  of  the  cake  is  left,  you  may  next  day 
cut  it  in  slices  and  fry  them  in  butter. 

Or,  instead  of  baking  the  mixture  in  a  large 


PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C  93 

cake,  you  may  put  flour  on  your  hands,  and  roll 
it  into  round  balls.  Make  a  batter  of  beaten  eggs, 
sugar,  and  grated  bread ;  dip  the  balls  into  it,  and 
fry  them  in  butter. 


POTATO  CAKE. 

Roast  in  the  ashes  a  dozen  small  or  six  large 
potatoes.  When  done,  peel  them,  and  put  them 
into  a  pan  with  a  little  salt,  and  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  grated.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, or  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Having  mashed  the  potatoes 
with  this  mixture,  rub  it  through  a  cullender,  and 
stir  it  very  hard.     Then  set  it  away  to  cool. 

Beat  eight  eggs,  and  stir  them  gradually  into 
the  mixture.  Season  it  with  a  tea-spoonful  of 
mixed  spice,  and  half  a  glass  of  rose-water. 

Butter  a  mould  or  a  deep  dish,  and  spread  the 
inside  all  over  with  grated  bread.  Put  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  it  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


SPONGE  CAKE— CALLED  IN  FRANCE  BISCUIT. 

Take  ten  eggs,  and  beat  them  till  very  thick 
and  smooth.  Add  gradually  a  pound  of  powdered 
loaf-sugar.  Rub  a  lump  of  loaf-sugar  all  over 
the  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  to  draw  the  juice  to  the 
surface ;  then  grate  the  peel  of  the  lemon,  and  stir 
it  into  the  mixture,  together  with  the  lump  of 
sugar.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  add 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  rose-water.  Beat  the  mix- 
ture very  hard  ;  then  take  half  a  pound  of  potato 
flour  (which  is  best),  or  else  of  fine  wheat  flour, 
and  stir  it  in  very  lightly  and  slowly.  It  must  be 
baked  immediately. 

Have  ready  some  small  square  or  oblong  cases 
of  thick  white  paper,  with  an  edge  turned  up  all 


94  PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C. 

round,  and  sewed  at  the  corners.  They  should  be 
about  a  finger  in  length,  half  a  finger  in  breadth, 
and  an  inch  and  a  half  in  depth.  Either  butter 
these  paper-cases,  or  sift  white  sugar  all  over  the 
inside.  Put  some  of  the  mixture  into  each  case, 
but  do  not  fill  them  to  the  top.  Grate  loaf-sugar 
over  the  top  of  each,  and  bake  them  quickly. 

These  cakes  are  much  better  when  baked  in 
paper  cases ;  tins  being  generally  too  thick  for 
them.  No  cake  requires  greater  care  in  baking. 
If  the  oven  is  not  hot  enough,  both  at  top  and  bot- 
tom, they  will  fall  and  be  heavy,  and  lose  their 
shape. 

CROQUETTES. 

Take  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  a  pound  of 
butter,  half  a  pound  of  wheat-flour,  and  half  a  pound 
of  Indian  meal ;  mix  all  together,  and  add  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  a  large  lemon,  with  spice  to 
your  taste.  Make  it  into  a  lump  of  paste.  Then 
put  it  into  a  mortar,  and  beat  it  hard  on  all  sides. 

Roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  it  into  cakes  with  the 
edge  of  a  tumbler,  or  with  a  tin  cutter. 

Flour  a  shallow  tin  pan.  Lay  the  cakes  into  it, 
but  not  close  together.  Bake  them  about  ten 
minutes.     Grate  sugar  over  them  when  done. 


MARGUERITES. 

Beat  together  till  very  light,  a  pound  of  butter 
and  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Sift  a  pound  of 
flour  into  a  pan.  Take  the  yolks  only,  of  twelve 
eggs,  and  beat  them  till  very  thick  and  smooth. 
Pour  them  into  the  flour,  and  add  the  beaten  butter 
and  sugar.  Stir  in  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  wine- 
glass of  rose-water.  Mix  the  whole  together,  tih 
it  becomes  a  lump  of  dough. 


PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C.  95 

Flour  your  paste-board,  and  lay  the  dougn  upon 
it ;  sprinkle  it  with  flour.  Roll  it  out  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  cut  it  into  round  cakes  with  the 
edge  of  a  cup.  Flour  a  shallow  pan,  put  in  the 
cakes  (so  as  not  to  touch),  and  bake  them  about 
five  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  If  the  oven  is  too 
cool,  they  will  run. 

When  the  cakes  are  cool,  lay  on  each  a  large 
lump  of  currant  jelly.  Take  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  beat  them  till  they  stand  alone.  Then  add  to 
them,  by  degrees,  sufficient  powdered  sugar  to 
make  the  consistence  of  icing,  and  ten  drops  of 
strong  essence  of  lemon.  Heap  on  each  cake, 
with  a  spoon,  a  pile  of  the  icing  over  the  currant- 
jelly.  Set  them  in  a  cool  oven  till  the  icing  be- 
comes firm  and  of  a  pale  brownish  tint. 

These  cakes  are  very  fine. 


WAFERS. 

Sift  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  pan.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  middle,  and  put  in  three  beaten  eggs,  a 
table-spoonful  of  brandy,  a  table-spoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet-oil,  and  a 
very  little  salt,  not  more  than  will  lie  on  a  six- 
pence. Mix  all  together,  adding  gradually  a  little 
milk,  till  you  have  a  batter  about  the  thickness  of 
good  cream.  Then  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  rose- 
water.  Let  there  be  no  lumps  in  the  batter.  Heat 
your  wafer-iron  on  both  sides,  in  a  clear  fire,  but 
do  not  allow  it  to  get  red-hot.  Then  grease  the 
inside  with  a  brush  dipped  in  sweet-oil,  or  a  clean 
rag  with  some  butter  tied  up  in  it.  Then  put  in 
the  batter,  allowing  about  two  table-spoonfuls  to 
each  wafer.  Close  the  iron,  and  in  baking  turn  it 
first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  When 
done,  sprinkle  the  wafers  with  powdered  sugar, 


96  PASTRY,  CAKES,  &C. 

and  roll  each  one  up,  pressing  the  edges  together 
while  warm,  so  as  to  make  them  unite. 

A  little  practice  will  soon  show  you  the  proper 
degree  of  heat,  and  the  time  necessary  for  baking 
the  wafers.  They  should  be  but  slightly  colored, 
and  of  an  even  tint  all  over. 


GINGERBREAD. 

Mix  together  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  five  beaten  eggs,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  a  tea-cupful  of  ginger.  Put  the  flour 
to  the  other  ingredients,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  stir 
the  whole  very  hard.  Melt  a  tea-spoonful  of  sal 
aratus  or  fine  pearl-ash  in  a  little  sour  milk,  and 
stir  it  in  at  the  last.  Roll  the  dough  into  sheets, 
and  cut  it  out  with  square  tins.  If  not  stiff  enough 
for  rolling,  add  a  little  more  flour.  Lay  it  in  but- 
tered pans,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 


PART  THE  SEVENTH. 


PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &c. 


AN  APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

Pare  and  core  some  fine  pippins,  and  cut  them 
into  small  pieces.  Melt  some  butter  in  the  bottom 
of  a  pan.  Then  lay  your  apples  in  it  with  a  suf- 
ficient proportion  of  sugar,  beaten  cinnamon  or 
nutmeg,  and  some  rose-water  or  grated  lemon- 
peel.  Set  the  pan  in  an  oven,  and  let  the  apples 
bake  till  they  are  quite  soft.  Then  take  them  out 
of  the  pan,  and  mash  them  to  a  marmalade  with 
the  back  of  a  spoon. 

Cut  some  thin  slices  of  bread  into  a  triangular 
or  three-cornered  shape,  and  dip  them  in  melted 
butter.  Then  butter  a  broad  deep  dish,  and  lay 
the  pieces  of  bread  in  the  bottom  of  it,  making  the 
points  meet  in  the  centre.  Spread  a  thick  layer 
of  apple  all  over  the  bread;  then  more  bread, 
covered  with  another  layer  of  apple,  and  so  on  till 
the  dish  is  full ;  having  a  cover  of  bread  on  the 
top.  Set  it  in  the  oven,  and  bake  it  slowly  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour. 

A  very  fine  Charlotte  may  be  made  by  substi- 
tuting slices  of  spunge-cake  for  the  bread,  or  hav- 
ing square  spunge-cakes  laid  round,  leaving  a  hole 
in  the  centre  to  be  filled  up  with  gooseberry  jelly. 
If  you  use  spunge-cake,  you  need  not  put  it  in  the 
oven. 


APPLE  COMPOTE. 

Pare  and  core  some  large  pippins,  but  leave 
them  whole.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  and  skim- 
ming a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  melted  in  a  gill  of 


100  PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C. 

water,  into  which  the  half  of  the  white  of  an  egg 
has  been  beaten.  When  the  syrup  is  quite  clear, 
boil  the  apples  in  it  till  soft  and  tender.  Then  take 
them  out,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  fill  up  with 
small  sweet-meats  or  marmalade  the  holes  from 
whence  you  took  the  cores. 

Boil  the  syrup  again  till  it  becomes  a  jelly.  Pour 
it  hot  over  your  apples,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place 
to  congeal. 

The  syrup  will  be  much  improved  by  adding  to 
it  the  juice  of  one  or  two  lemons,  or  a  dozen  drops 
of  essence  of  lemon. 


COMPOTE  OF  PEARS. 

Pare  them,  but  leave  on  the  stems.  Lay  them 
in  a  preserving-pan ;  and  to  a  dozen  moderate- 
sized  pears,  put  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  a  gill 
of  water,  and  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon,  with  some 
slips  of  lemon-peel.  Simmer  them  till  tender ;  and 
when  half  done,  pour  in  a  glass  of  port-wine. 
When  quite  done,  take  out  the  pears  and  lay  them 
in  a  deep  dish.  Strain  the  syrup ;  give  it  another 
boil,  and  pour  it  over  them. 


COMPOTE  OF  CHESTNUTS. 

Take  some  of  the  largest  and  finest  chestnuts 
Cut  a  slit  in  the  shell  of  each,  and  roast  them  in  a 
charcoal  furnace,  taking  care  not  to  burn  them. 
When  done,  peel  them  and  put  them  into  a  pan 
with  some  powdered  sugar,  and  a  very  little  water. 
Let  them  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  When  done,  take  them  out, 
put  them  into  a  dish,  squeeze  over  them  some 
lemon-juice,  and  sprinkle  them  with  powdered 
sugar.    . 


PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C.  101 


FRIED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  some  of  the  largest  and  finest 
pippins,  and  cut  them  into  thin  round  slices.  Mix 
together  in  a  deep  dish  some  brandy,  lemon-juice, 
and  powdered  sugar.  Lay  the  slices  of  apple  in  it, 
and  let  them  soak  for  several  hours.  Then  drain 
them,  and  dip  each  slice  in  flour.  Put  some  butter 
into  a  pan,  and  fry  the  apples  of  a  fine  brown. 
Dish  them,  and  grate  loaf-sugar  over  them. 

Quinces  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner.  So 
also  may  peaches,  but  they  must  be  cut  in  half. 


PEACH  MARMALADE. 

Take  ripe  peaches ;  pare  them  and  cut  them  in 
half,  taking  out  the  stones.  Weigh  them,  and  to 
each  pound  of  fruit  allow  half  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar.  Mash  them  with  the  sugar,  and  put  them 
in  a  preserving-kettle.  Boil  them  slowly  till  they 
become  a  shapeless  mass,  which  will  generally  be 
in  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Stir  the  mar- 
malade frequently,  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the 
kettle.  Blanch  half  the  kernels,  and  cut  them  in 
two ;  and  when  the  marmalade  is  about  half  done, 
put  them  into  it  to  give  it  a  fine  flavor.  Take  out 
the  kernels  when  the  marmalade  is  cold,  and  then 
tie  it  up  in  pots  or  glasses,  laying  over  it  paper 
dipped  in' brandy. 

Marmalade  of  plums  or  green-gages  may  be 
made  in  the  same  manner. 


BRANDY  PEACHES. 

Take  large  yellow  free-stone  peaches;  they  must 
not  be  too  ripe.  Wipe  off  the  down  with  a  flannel,  and 
then  prick  each  peach  to  the  stone  with  a  large  pin. 
12 


102  PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C. 

Put  them  into  a  pan,  and  scald  them  with  boiling 
water.  Cover  them,  and  let  them  rest  for  a  few 
minutes.  This  is  to  make  them  white.  You  may 
repeat  the  scalding  two  or  three  times.  Then  take 
them  out  to  drain  and  dry. 

Allow  a  pound  of  the  best  loaf-sugar  to  a  dozen 
large  peaches.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserving- 
kettle  (lined  with  enamel  or  porcelain),  and  melt 
it,  allowing  to  each  pound  a  gill  of  water,  and  half 
the  white  of  an  egg.  Boil  the  sugar,  and  skim  it 
till  perfectly  clear.  Then  put  in  the  peaches,  and 
give  them  a  boil.  Take  them  off  the  fire,  and  let 
them  set  in  the  syrup  till  next  day. 

The  following  morning  take  out  the  peaches,  set 
the  syrup  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  boiled  a 
few  minutes  put  in  the  peaches,  and  give  them  a 
short  boil.  Then  take  them  out,  and  let  them  get 
cold.  Boil  down  the  syrup  to  half  its  original  quan- 
tity, but  take  care  that  it  does  not  boil  long  enough 
to  congeal  or  become  thick.  Put  the  peaches  into 
a  glass  jar,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them.  Fill  up 
the  jar  with  brandy,  and  cover  it  closely. 

Apricots  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner.  Also 
pears.    The  stemstmust  be  left  on  the  pears. 


GOOSEBERRY  POTTAGE. 

Stew  two  quarts  of  fine  large  gooseberries  in 
just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them.  When  quite 
soft  and  broken,  mash  them  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon,  make  them  very  sweet  with  sugar,  and  set 
them  away  to  get  cold.  Take  three  pints  of  rich 
milk ;  stir  into  it  a  pounded  nutmeg  and  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs.  Then  set  it  over  a  bed  of  hot  coals, 
and  let  it  simmer,  stirring  it  gently  all  the  time. 
Before  it  comes  to  a  boil,  take  it  off  the  fire  and 
gradually  stir  in  the  gooseberries.    It  must  be  quite 


PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C.  103 

cold  before  you  serve  it  up.     Send  it  to  table  in  a 
bowl,  and  eat  spunge-cake  with  it. 

It  will  be  still  nicer,  if  you  use  the  pulp  only  of 
the  gooseberries,  pressed  through  a  sieve  or  cul- 
lender 


FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Previous  to  making  your  jelly,  clarify  the  sugar, 
which  must  be  the  best  loaf.  Break  it  up,  and  to 
each  pound  allow  a  gill  of  water  and  an  ounce  of 
isinglass.  Mix  the  water  with  the  sugar.  Dissolve 
the  isinglass  in  as  much  hot  water  as  will  cover  it. 
Set  the  sugar  over  the  fire  in  a  preserving-kettle;  and 
when  it  is  beginning  to  boil,  throw  in  the  melted 
isinglass.  Skim  the  syrup  well,  and  when  it  is 
quite  clear  and  no  more  scum  rises,  take  it  from 
the  fire,  cover  it,  and  leave  it  to  settle. 

Prepare  the  fruit  of  which  you  intend  to  make 
the  jelly.  If  small  fruit,  such  as  gooseberries,  cur- 
rants, grapes,  raspberries,  or  strawberries;  pick 
them  from  the  stems,  and  put  them  into  a  jar ;  set 
the  jar  in  a  vessel  of  warm  water,  and  let  them 
come  to  a  boil.  Then  take  them  out,  put  them  into 
a  fine  sieve,  set  a  pan  under  it,  and  with  the  back 
of  a  large  spoon  press  out  all  the  juice  from  the 
fruit.  Mix  the  juice,  while  warm,  with  the  clarified 
sugar,  and  boil  them  together  for  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Then  put  it  into  your  jars  or  glasses, 
and  tie  it  up  with  brandy-paper. 

If  you  want  the  jelly  for  immediate  use,  put  it 
into  a  mould ;  set  the  mould  in  ice  for  two  or  three 
hours ;  and  when  the  jelly  is  congealed,  loosen  it 
by  setting  the  mould  in  warm  water,  and  then 
turn  it  out. 


104  PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C. 


PRESERVED  PUMPKIN. 

Take  a  fine  ripe  pumpkin  of  a  deep  rich  color. 
Cut  from  it  as  many  slices  as  you  want ;  they 
should  be  very  thin.  Have  ready  some  lime-water. 
Put  into  it  the  slices  of  pumpkin,  and  let  them  soak 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  take  them  out,  wash 
them  well  in  cold  water,  and  wipe  them  dry. 
Having  prepared  a  nicely  clarified  syrup  of  sugar, 
put  the  slices  of  pumpkin  into  it,  and  let  them  sim- 
mer over  a  slow  fire  without  stirring,  for  a  day  and 
a  night ;  but  first  flavor  them  to  your  taste  with 
lemon-juice  mixed  into  the  syrup.  When  done, 
they  will  be  crisp  and  transparent.  Put  them  into 
broad  stone  or  queensware  pots,  and  tie  them  up 
with  brandy-paper. 


PRESERVED  RASPBERRIES. 

Let  your  raspberries  be  gathered  on  a  dry  day. 
Measure  them,  and  to  a  quart  of  raspberries  allow 
a  pound  of  fine  loaf-sugar.  Spread  the  fruit  on 
large  dishes,  but  do  not  heap  it ;  let  every  raspberry 
lie  singly.  Pound  the  sugar  to  powder,  and  sift  it 
over  the  fruit. 

Then  have  ready  the  same  quantity  of  ripe  cur- 
rants. Squeeze  them  through  a  linen  bag  which 
has  been  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Prepare  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar  for  each  pint  of  currant  juice. 
Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  pour 
the  currant-juice  over  it.  When  it  has  melted,  set 
it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  and  skim  it  for  ten  minutes. 
When  no  more  scum  rises,  put  in  the  raspberries. 
As  soon  as  they  are  all  scalded,  take  off  the  kettle, 
cover  it,  and  set  it  away  for  twO  hours.  Then  put 
it  again  on  the  fire  for  about  five  minutes.  After- 
ward set  it  again  away  for  two  hours,  and  then 


PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C.  105 

return  it  to  the  fire  as  before.     This  must  be  done 
three  times  in  all,  but  on  no  account  allow  the  rasp- 
berries to  boil.     If  done  with  care,  they  will  be 
whole  and  transparent. 
When  cold,  put  them  up  in  glasses. 

If  you  preserve  white  raspberries,  do  them  in  the 
juice  of  white  currants. 

Any  other  fruit  may  be  done  in  jelly  in  the  same 
manner. 


ORANGE  JELLY. 

Peel  twelve  large  sweet  oranges,  and  cut  them 
into  small  pieces.  Put  them  into  a  linen  bag,  and 
squeeze  out  all  the  juice.  Measure  the  juice,  and 
if  it  does  not  amount  to  a  pint,  squeeze  some  more 
pieces  of  orange  through  the  bag.  Put  a  pound  of 
double-refined  loaf-sugar  into  a  preserving  kettle, 
and  pour  the  juice  over  it.  When  the  sugar  has 
melted,  put  it  over  the  fire.  Dissolve  two  ounces 
of  isinglass  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  add  it  to  the 
jelly  just  as  it  is  beginning  to  boil.  Let  it  boil  hard 
twenty  minutes.  Then  put  it  into  glasses,  and  tie 
it  up  with  brandy-paper. 

Lemon-jelly  may  be  made  in  this  manner. 


CLARIFIED  SUGAR,  FOR  PRESERVES,  AND  OTHER  USES. 

To  each  pound  of  sugar  allow  half  a  pint  of 
water,  and  half  the  wThite  of  an  egg ;  thus  four 
pounds  of  sugar  will  require  a  quart  of  water  and 
the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Mix  the  white  of  egg 
with  the  water,  and  beat  it  to  a  froth  with  rods. 
Take  two  thirds  of  the  water,  and  pour  it  over  the 
sugar.     When   it   has   melted,    set    it   over  the 


106  PREPARATIONS  OP  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C. 

fire.  When  it  rises  and  boils,  pour  in  a  little 
more  of  the  water,  and  diminish  the  fire  to  abate 
the  boiling  and  allow  the  scum  to  rise.  Take  it 
off,  skim  it  well,  and  in  five  minutes  set  it  on  the 
fire  again.  When  it  boils  a  second  time,  add  a 
little  more  water ;  and  afterwards  take  it  off  and 
skim  it  again.  Repeat  this  till  it  is  quite  clear,  and 
no  more  scum  rises.  Then  take  it  from  the  fire. 
Dip  a  fine  napkin  in  warm  water,  wring  it  out,  and 
then  strain  the  syrup  through  it.  Afterwards 
put  your  fruit  into  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  till  tender. 
You  may  keep  this  syrup  in  bottles,  and  at  any 
time  you  can  put  fruit  into  it ;  for  instance,  straw- 
berries, raspberries  plums,  apricots  &c.  If  only 
wanted  for  immediate  use,  you  need  not  boil  them, 
but  send  them  to  table  in  the  syrup,  with  the 
advantage  of  their  natural  color  and  flavor. 


FRUIT  IN  SUGAR  COATS. 

Prepare  some  of  the  best  loaf-sugar  powdered  as 
fine  as  possible.  Have  ready  some  white  of  egg. 
Take  some  of  the  best  and  largest  plums,  cher- 
ries, strawberries,  raspberries,  apricots  (peeled)  or 
any  other  suitable  fruit. 

Dip  the  fruit,  separately,  in  the  white  of  egg,  and 
then  roll  it  all  over  in  the  powdered  sugar,  which 
will  thus  adhere  to  it,  and  form  a  coat.  Then  lay 
it  on  a  dish  (spreading  it  out  so  as  not  to  touch)  and 
set  it  in  a  cool  oven  to  harden. 


BURNT  ALMONDS. 

Take  a  pound  of  shelled  sweet  almonds,  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  water.  Melt  the 
sugar  in  the  water,  and  then  set  it  over  the  fire. 
Put  in  the  almonds,  and  stir  them  about  till  they 


PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C  107 

are  well  dispersed  through  the  sugar.  Let  them 
boil,  and  when  you  hear  the  almonds  crack,  they 
are  sufficiently  done.  Take  them  off,  and  stir 
them  till  they  are  dry,  and  then  put  them  into  a 
wire  sieve,  and  sift  from  them  the  loose  sugar.  Put 
this  sugar  again  into  the  pan,  with  sufficient  water 
to  moisten  it,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Then  put 
in  two  spoonfuls  of  cochineal  powder  to  color  it 
red ;  add  the  almonds,  and  stir  them  over  the  fire 
till  they  are  quite  dry.  Put  them  away  in  glass 
jars. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS 

Powder  some  fine  loaf-sugar,  add  to  it  a  little 
essence  of  peppermint  (sufficient  to  give  it  a  strong 
flavor)  and  enough  of  water  to  make  it  into  a  thick 
paste,  which  you  must  mix  on  a  plate  with  the 
point  of  a  broad  knife.  Then  put  the  paste  into  a 
pan  that  has  a  lip  or  little  spout  at  one  side  ;  melt 
it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  As  soon 
as  it  boils,  take  it  off  and  drop  it  from  the  lip  of  the 
pan  into  a  clean  broad  tin  pan  or  plate.  Let  the 
drops  be  all  of  the  same  size  and  shape.  The  tin 
pan  that  receives  them  must  be  very  cold.  As 
soon  as  the  drops  have  hardened,  loosen  them 
from  the  tin,  by  slipping  the  point  of  a  knife  under 
each. 

You  may  color  them  red  with  cochineal. 

Keep  them  in  a  glass  jar. 

If  the  mixture  congeals  before  all  the  drops  are 
made,  melt  it  again  over  the  fire. 


CHOCOLATE  DROPS. 

Scrape  some  of  the  best  chocolate,  and  mix  it 
with  powdered  white  sugar.  Moisten  it  with  a  little 


108  PREPARATIONS  OF  FRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C. 

water,  so  as  to  make  a  paste.  Work  it  on  a  plate 
with  a  knife.  Then  boil  it  in  a  pan  with  a  lip,  and 
pour  it  (a  drop  at  a  time)  into  a  cold  tin  pan. 
While  moist,  sprinkle  colored  sugar-sand  or  non- 
pareils over  the  surface  of  each  chocolate  drop, 
which  drop  must  be  of  a  good  shape,  and  about  the 
size  of  a  sixpence.  When  they  are  hardened,  take 
them  off  the  tin,  by  slipping  under  them  the  point 
of  a  knife. 

Keep  them  in  glass  jars. 

After  the  chocolate  has  boiled,  make  the  drops 
as  fast  as  possible  ;  for  if  it  gets  cold  before  they 
are  all  done,  it  will  injure  it  much  to  boil  it  over 
again. 

The  confectioners  use  for  these  purposes  small 
leaden  moulds,  greased  with  oil  of  almonds.  Into 
these  moulds  they  pour  the  mixture,  so  that  every 
thing  comes  out  of  the  same  size  and  shape. 


NOUGAT. 

This  is  a  very  fine  confection.  Take  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  shelled  sweet  almonds,  and 
one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  shelled  bitter  almonds. 
Blanch  them  by  scalding  them  in  boiling  water. 
Then  throw  them  into  cold  water,  and  take  them 
out  and  wipe  them.  Cut  them  into  small  pieces 
(but  do  not  pound  them,)  and  mix  them  well 
together. 

Take  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  broken  small,  and 
mix  it  with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  an  ounce 
of  isinglass  melted  in  a  very  little  hot  water.  Boil 
the  sugar,  and  skim  it  well.  When  it  is  quite  clear, 
throw  in  your  almonds,  having  first  squeezed  over 
them  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Stir  the  almonds 
well  through  the  sugar ;  and  as  soon  as  they  are 
properly  mixed  with  it,  take  the  kettle  off  the  fire. 


PREPARATIONS  OP  PRUIT,  SUGAR,  &C.  109 

Have  ready  a  mould  or  a  square  tin  pan  well 
greased  with  sweet-oil.  Put  your  mixture  into  it, 
a  little  at  a  time ;  dispersing  the  almonds  equally 
through  the  sugar,  before  it  has  time  to  get  cold. 
But  if  it  does  chill  before  the  almonds  are  well 
mixed  in  it,  set  it  again  over  the  fire  to  melt.  Turn 
it  frequently  in  the  mould,  to  prevent  its  sticking. 
When  it  has  become  a  hard  cake,  set  the  mould 
for  a  moment  in  warm  water,  and  turn  out  the 
nougat. 

In  stirring  it,  you  had  better  use  a  wooden 
spoon. 


ORGEAT  PASTE. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  shelled  bitter  almonds,  and 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  shelled  sweet  almonds. 
Blanch  them,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  one  or 
two  at  a  time,  pouring  in  frequently  a  little  rose- 
water,  which  will  preserve  their  whiteness  and  pre- 
vent them  from  being  oily  and  heavy.  Pound  them 
to  a  fine  smooth  paste,  and  then  mix  them  with  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar  finely  powdered. 

Put  the  mixture  again  into  the  mortar,  a  little 
at  a  time,  and  pound  it  awhile  that  the  sugar  and 
almonds  may  be  thoroughly  incorporated ;  adding 
still  a  little  rose-water. 

When  done,  put  it  away  in  small  covered  pots 
or  glasses,  and  it  will  keep  several  months  in  a 
cool  dry  place.     It  makes  a  very  fine  drink. 

When  you  want  to  use  it,  put  a  small  piece  into 
a  tumbler  of  cold  water,  and  stir  it  till  dissolved. 


K 


110  LIQUEURS. 

LIQUEURS. 


To  filter  cordials,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  sieve 
with  clean  blotting  paper.  Pour  the  liquor  into  it 
(having  set  a  vessel  underneath  to  receive  it),  and 
let  it  drip  through  the  paper  and  through  the  sieve, 
Renew  the  paper  frequently,  and  fasten  it  down 
with  pins. 

This  process  is  slow,  but  it  makes  the  liquor 
beautifully  clear. 


NOYAU. 

Take  six  ounces  of  peach  kernels,  and  one 
ounce  of  bitter  almonds.  Break  them  slightly. 
Put  them  into  a  jug  with  three  pints  of  white 
French  brandy.  Let  them  infuse  three  weeks  ; 
shaking  the  jug  every  day.  Then  drain  the  liquor 
from  the  kernels,  and  strain  it  through  a  linen  bag. 
Melt  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  the  best  loaf- 
sugar  in  a  pint  of  rose-water.  Mix  it  with  the 
liquor,  and  filter  it  through  a  sieve,  the  bottom  of 
which  is  to  be  covered  on  the  inside  with  blotting 
paper.  Let  the  vessel  which  is  placed  underneath 
to  receive  the  liquor  be  entirely  white,  that  you 
may  be  the  better  enabled  to  judge  of  its  clearness. 
If  it  is  not  clear  the  first  time,  repeat  the  filtering. 
Then  bottle  it  for  use. 


RASPBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Take  a  quart  of  raspberry-juice,  and  half  a  pint 
of  cherry-juice,  the  fruit  having  been  squeezed  in 
a  linen  bag  after  the  cherries  have  been  stoned. 
Mix  the  juices  together,  and  dissolve  in  them  two 


LIQUEURS.  Ill 

pounds  of  loaf-sugar.  Then  add  two  quarts  of 
French  brandy ;  put  it  into  a  jug,  and  let  it  rest 
five  weeks.  Afterwards  strain  it,  and  bottle  it 
for  use. 


ROSE  CORDIAL. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  leaves  of  full-blown  red 
roses.  Put  them  into  a  quart  of  lukewarm  water, 
and  let  them  infuse  for  two  days,  in  a  covered 
vessel.  Then  squeeze  them  through  a  linen  bag, 
to  press  out  all  the  liquid,  and  take  as  much  white 
brandy  as  you  have  of  the  decoction  of  roses.  To 
a  pint  of  the  infusion  add  half  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  coriander  and 
cinnamon.  Put  it  into  a  jug,  and  let  it  set  for  two 
weeks.  Then  filter  it  through  blotting  paper,  and 
put  it  into  bottles. 


QUINCE  CORDIAL. 

Pare  your  quinces,  and  scrape  them  to  the  core. 
Put  all  the  scrapings  into  a  tureen,  and  see  that 
there  are  no  seeds  among  them.  Let  the  scrapings 
remain  covered  in  the  tureen  for  two  days.  Then 
put  them  into  a  linen  bag,  and  squeeze  out  all  the 
juice.  Measure  it,  and  mix  it  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  white  brandy.  To  each  pint  of  the  mix- 
ture add  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  a  little 
cinnamon  and  cloves.  Put  it  into  a  jug,  and  let  it 
infuse  for  two  months.  Then  filter  it  through 
blotting  paper,  and  bottle  it.  This  cordial  im- 
proves by  age,  and  is  excellent. 


LEMON  CORDIAL. 

Pare  off  very  thin  the  yellow  rind  of  some  fine 
lemons.    Cut  the  lemons  in  half,  and  squeeze  out 


112  LIQUEURS. 

all  the  juice.  To  each  pint  of  the  juice,  allow  half 
a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Mix  the  juice,  the  peel, 
and  the  sugar  together ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  set 
twenty-four  hours.  Then  mix  it  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  white  brandy,  put  it  into  a  jug,  and  let 
it  set  a  month.  Then  strain  it  through  a  linen 
bag  ;  and  afterwards  filter  it  through  blotting 
paper,  before  you  bottle  it. 


PART  THE  EIGHTH. 


K2 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 


FRENCH  COFFEE. 

Let  the  coffee  be  roasted  immediately  before 
you  want  to  use  it,  as  it  loses  much  of  its  strength 
by  keeping.  Its  color,  when  done,  should  be  a  fine 
bright  brown ;  but  by  no  means  allow  it  to  scorch. 
A  cylindrical  coffee-roaster  that  can  be  turned  by 
a  handle,  and  sets  before  the  fire,  is  far  preferable 
to  a  pot  or  a  pan.    Grind  the  coffee  while  warm. 

If  you  intend  to  make  half  a  dozen  cups  of  coffee 
for  drinking,  measure  six  cups  of  water  of  the  same 
size,  and  put  the  water  into  the  coffee-pot.  Set  it 
on  hot  coals,  and  when  the  water  boils,  put  in  two 
or  three  chips  of  isinglass,  or  the  white  of  an  egg. 
Then  throw  in  six  large  tea-spoonfuls  of  ground 
coffee.  Stir  it  several  times  while  boiling,  and  set 
it  several  times  back  from  the  fire  to  diminish  the 
boiling  gradually.  When  it  has  boiled  sufficiently, 
remove  it  entirely  from  the  coals,  pour  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water,  and  then  put  it  in  a  corner  and  let  it 
settle  for  half  an  hour.  Afterwards  pour  it  off  from 
the  grounds  into  another  pot  (which  must  first  be 
scalded),  and  set  it  close  to  the  fire,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil  again. 

If  you  intend  to  serve  it  up  with  hot  cream,  you 
must  make  the  coffee  stronger.  While  the  coffee 
is  clearing,  boil  your  cream  or  milk,  and  pour  some 
of  it  hot  into  each  cup  of  coffee. 


COFFEE  WITHOUT  BOILING. 

Coffee  made  without  boiling  is  much  stronger, 
more  economical,  and  less  troublesome  than  the 


116  CHOCOLATE. 

usual  way ;  but  it  requires  a  pot  of  a  particular 
construction.  The  best  sort  of  pot  for  this  purpose 
is  called  in  French  a  Grecque  (Greek).  It  must 
be  made  of  the  best  block-tin,  and  of  a  tall  cylin- 
drical shape,  with  the  spout  very  near  the  bottom. 
The  receptacle  for  the  coffee-powder  fits  into  the 
upper  part  of  the  coffee-pot,  and  must  be  taken  out 
when  washed.  The  bottom  of  this  receiver  is 
pierced  with  very  small  holes,  and  there  are  two 
other  strainers,  made  of  movable  plates  of  tin, 
also  covered  with  fine  holes.  These  two  strainers 
fit  into  the  receiver.  The  powdered  coffee  is  to  be 
placed  between  them,  so  that  it  may  filter  through 
the  lower  strainer,  and  also  through  the  holes  at 
the  bottom  of  the  receiver.  Having  scalded  the 
pot,  put  the  coffee  into  the  receiver  between  the 
two  movable  strainers,  and  pour  in  some  water 
which  must  be  boiling  hard  at  the  time.  The  coffee 
will  then  drain  through  into  the  lower  part  of  the 
pot  where  the  spout  is,  and  will  clear  itself  in  pass- 
ing through  the  holes.  Shut  down  the  lid,  place 
the  pot  near  the  fire,  and  the  coffee  will  be  ready 
for  use  as  soon  as  it  has  done  draining  through. 

Allow  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  the  powder  for 
each  cup  that  you  intend  to  have. 

This  mode  of  preparing  coffee  is  very  expeditious, 
and  requires  neither  isinglass  nor  white  of  egg. 


CHOCOLATE. 

Never  boil  chocolate  in  milk,  as  that  spoils  the 
flavor ;  and  do  not  scrape  it,  but  merely  cut  it  into 
pieces.  To  an  ounce  of  chocolate  allow  a  cup  of 
boiling  water. 

Having  first  scalded  the  pot,  put  in  the  choco- 
late, pour  the  water  on  it,  and  boil  it  till  one  third 
has  evaporated.  Then  supply  that  third  with  cream 
or  milk,  and  take  it  immediatelv  from  the  fire. 


PINE  LEMONADE PUNCH,  &C.  117 

You  need  not  stir  it  more  than  two  or  three 
times. 

FINE  LEMONADE. 

Allow  a  whole  lemon  and  four  or  five  lumps  of 
loaf-sugar  to  half  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Roll  the 
lemons  hard  on  a  table  to  make  them  more  juicy. 
Cut  them  in  half,  and  squeeze  them  over  the  sugar. 
Then  pour  on  the  water,  and  stir  till  the  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Take  out  whatever  seeds  may  have 
fallen  in.  In  warm  weather,  put  a  lump  of  ice  into 
each  glass. 

punch. 
Take  three  large  lemons,  and  roll  them  very 
hard  on  the  table  to  make  them  more  juicy.  Then 
pare  them  as  thin  as  possible.  Cut  out  the  pulp, 
and  throw  away  the  seeds  and  the  white  part  of 
the  rind.  Put  the  yellow  rind  and  the  pulp  into  a 
pint  of  boiling  water ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it 
boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Take  it  off,  and  throw 
in  a  tea-spoonful  of  raw  green  tea  of  the  best  sort, 
and  let  it  infuse  about  five  minutes.  Then  strain  it 
through  linen.  Stir  into  it  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar,  and  a  pint  of  brandy,  or  any  other 
suitable  liquor.  Set  it  again  over  the  fire,  and 
when  it  is  just  ready  to  boil,  remove  it,  and  pour  it 
into  a  china  bowl  or  pitcher. 


CONVENIENT  LEMONADE. 

Take  four  ounces  of  powdered  tartaric  acid, 
and  two  drachms  of  essential  oil  of  lemon.  Mix 
them  together,  and  keep  them  in  a  well-corked 
phial.  A  table-spoonful  mixed  with  sugar  and 
water,  will  make  six  or  eight  glasses  of  lemonade. 

It  will  keep  about  a  month,  but  not  longer,  as  it 
will  then  lose  its  strength. 


118         TRENCH  MUSTARD POTATO  FLOUR,  &C. 

FRENCH  MUSTARD. 

Put  on  a  plate  an  ounce  of  the  very  best  mustard 
powder,  with  a  salt-spoon  of  salt,  a  few  leaves  of 
tarragon,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  minced  fine.  Pour 
on  by  degrees  sufficient  vinegar  to  dilute  it  to  the 
proper  consistence  (about  a  wine-glassful),  and  mix 
it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Do  not  use  it  in  less 
than  twenty-four  hours  after  it  is  mixed. 


POTATO  FLOUR. 

Potato  flour  is  excellent  for  sponge-cake,  and 
other  things  which  require  extraordinary  lightness. 
It  is  also  good  for  young  children,  and  for  conva- 
lescent sick  persons. 

Take  the  best  and  most  mealy  potatoes ;  pare 
them,  and  wash  them  through  several  waters. 
Then  rasp  or  grate  them  over  a  tureen  half  full  of 
cold  water.  Continue  to  grate  the  potatoes  till  the 
lower  half  of  the  tureen  is  filled  with  the  pulp,  so 
that  the  water  may  rise  to  the  top.  The  mealy  part 
of  the  potatoes  will  sink  to  the  bottom,  while  the 
remainder  or  the  useless  part  will  rise  to  the  sur- 
face. When  nothing  more  rises,  pour  off  the  water 
carefully,  and  dry  the  flour  which  you  find  at  the 
bottom.  When  quite  dry,  pound  it  in  a  mortar  to 
a  fine  powder,  and  sift  it  through  a  sieve. 

Potato  flour  is  much  lighter  than  that  of  wheat. 


COLD  PICKLES. 

Season  some  of  the  best  vinegar  with  a  little 
garlic,  a  little  tarragon,  and  a  little  sweet-oil.  Put 
it  into  a  glass  jar,  and  keep  it  well  covered.  You 
may  throw  into  it  the  green  seeds  of  nasturtians, 
morella  cherries,  little  onions,  small  young  carrots 
when  but  a  finger  long,  radish  pods,  and  various 


CORNICHONS.  119 

other  things.  Keep  the  jar  well  closed,  and  the 
pickles  will  be  as  good  and  keep  as  long  as  if  they 
had  been  boiled. 

Nasturtians  and  cherries  will  keep  in  plain  vine- 
gar without  any  seasoning. 


CORNICHONS,  OR  FRENCH  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Take  ten  pounds  of  very  small  cucumbers. 
Brush  them  all  over  to  clean  them  well,  and  cut 
off  the  stems.  Put  them  into  an  earthen  pan  with 
two  handfuls  of  salt.  Let  them  rest  twenty-four 
hours,  and  then  drain  them.  When  they  are  well 
drained,  put  them  back  into  the  same  pan,  and 
pour  in  a  quantity  of  boiling  hot  white  wine  vine- 
gar, sufficient  to  cover  them.  Then  cover  the  pan 
carefully  with  a  lid  or  dish,  and  let  the  cucumbers 
set  in  the  vinegar  twenty-four  hours.  They  will 
then  be  yellow.  Pour  the  vinegar  from  them,  and 
cover  them  with  vine-leaves.  Boil  the  vinegar 
again,  and  when  it  boils  throw  it  over  the  cucum- 
bers, stirring  them  well. 

When  the  vinegar  is  cold,  pour  it  from  the 
cucumbers,  and  boil  it  again.  Then  pour  it  over 
them,  and  proceed  in  this  manner  four  or  five  times, 
till  they  become  of  a  fine  green.  Keep  them  in  the 
interval  always  covered  with  a  layer  of  vine-leaves, 
fresh  each  time,  and  also  with  a  cloth  kept  down 
by  a  large  dish.  This,  by  keeping  in  the  steam, 
will  assist  them  in  greening. 

Then  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  put  them  into 
glass  jars. 

Afterwards,  boil  some  fresh  white  wine  vinegar, 
first  mixing  in  it  the  following  seasoning.  To 
every  quart  of  vinegar  allow  half  an  ounce  of 
mace,  half  an  ounce  of  sliced  ginger,  half  an  ounce 
of  whole  black  pepper,  six  cloves,  a  few  sprigs  of 
tarragon,  and  half  a  clove  of  garlic. 


120  FINE  COLOGNE  WATER. 

Boil  the  vinegar  with  these  ingredients  for  five 
minutes,  and  then  pour  it  hot  on  the  pickles.  Tie 
them  up  carefully.     They  may  be  used  in  a  week. 

The  generality  of  French  pickles,  are  made  in  a 
manner  similar  to  those  of  England  and  America. 


FINE  COLOGNE  WATER. 

Procure  at  an  apothecary's  the  following  oils 
and  have  them  all  put  into  the  same  phial : — Oil  of 
lemon,  2  drams ;  oil  of  rosemary,  2  drams ;  oil  of 
lavender,  1  dram ;  oil  of  bergamot,  2  drams ;  oil  of 
cinnamon,  10  drops ;  oil  of  cloves,  10  drops ;  oil  of 
roses,  2  drops ;  tincture  of  musk,  8  drops. 

Put  2  pint  of  highly  rectified  spirits  of  wine  into 
a  bottle,  and  pour  the  oils  into  it.  Shake  it  hard 
for  a  few  minutes,  having  corked  it  tightly.  It 
will  be  fit  for  immediate  use,  but  it  improves  by 
keeping. 

If  you  wish  it  stronger,  double  the  quantity  of  all 
the  oils,  but  have  only  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine. 


THE  END. 


How  to  Make  Cologne  Water. 

From  the  Chemist. 

Willi  no  trouble  at  ail    any  one  can  .»« 

KoTaJfa%mokr^nn|tU drops  each  of  fc»efr 

If  this  is  subsequen    y  <    ->  g  '\g0)  *„  eXccUiW'.y  tine    , 
toripen  and  mellow  bciure  use. 


ja*e\_  Alcohol,  one  gallon;  oil  of  lemon,  two 
pso-  ®\  of  bergamot,  one  ounce ;  oil  of  lavender 
sh),    one  and  one-half    drams;    oil    of 
drams  ;  oil  of  neroli,  one  dram  ;  essence 
%nd  one-half  ounces ;  otto  of  roses,  one- 
>.etic  ether,  four  drams.    The  materials 
the  best  quality,  and  should  be  well 
^a^e  to  stand  for  eight  days,  and  filtered 
' .  \>8>$.eua.    An  elegant  preparation. 

^t™  _A   bottlA  t.wrwfVnrrla  fnll 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  518  328  5 


Sill 


mm 


ML 

Jin 

•':':i§ 


HHHHh 


ligiHRi 


