DROMEDARY 


COOK   BOOK 


SPECIAL  COLLECTIONS 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


|E  take  this  opportunity  of  presenting 
to  the  American  Housewife  a  col- 
lection of  recipes  which  have  to 
do  with  a  class  of  food  products  but  little 
known.  The  dietetic  value  of  such  fruits  as 
dates,  figs,  currants,  etc.,  is  a  high  one  and 
these  fruits  should  appear  on  our  tables  at 
least  once  a  day. 

The  brands  mentioned  are  all  standard 
and  some  of  them  have  been  on  the  market 
for  the  last  twenty-five  years.  The  recipes 
are  all  based  on  the  use  of  the  best  grades 
of  the  various  products  and  these  brands  stand 
for  the  highest  quality  as  well  as  for  absolute 
cleanliness  of  pack.  Any  good  fruit  dealer  or 
grocer  can  supply  them. 

The  recipes  which  we  have  published  in 
this  little  book  have  been  selected  from  a 
large  number  submitted  in  our  prize  contest 
held  in  1910.  They  have  been  thoroughly  tested 
and  we  hope  will  meet  with  the  approval  of 
all  who  have  occasion  to  use  them. 

THE  HILLS  BROTHERS  COMPANY 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


FIGS  AND  HOMINY 

Carefully  wash  enough  pulled  Camel  Brand  figs  to  suffice  for  the 
family,  then  allow  them  to  simmer  in  water  about  five  minutes ;  drain  off 
liquid  and  dispose  figs  about  a  shaped  mound  of  steamed  hominy.  Pass 
plain  cream  with  this  appetizing  dish.  Dromedary  dates  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  figs. 

FRUIT  CREAM  FOR  CEREAL 

2  ripe  bananas. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  nuts. 

3  tablespoonfuls  mashed  strawberries. 
G  Dromedary  dates,  chopped  fine. 

1  egg,  white,  beaten  stiff. 

Cream  or  milk  for  desired  consistency. 

Mash  the  bananas  thoroughly,  add  nuts,  strawberries,  dates  and 
white  of  egg.  Beat  together  thoroughly,  and  add  milk  or  cream  to 
obtain  desired  consistency.  The  mixture  may  be  made  sweeter  by  using 
more  dates  or  more  tart  by  the  addition  of  more  berries. 

DATE  MUFFINS 

14  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

1       large  egg  or  two  small  ones. 

1  cup  milk. 

A  little  salt, 

2  cups  flour  in  which 

2       teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  has  been  sifted. 

1  cupful  Dromedary,  dates  cut  up  rather  fine. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  and  eggs  beaten  separately;  then  the 
milk  and  flour  alternately,  the  flour  and  baking  powder  having  been 
sifted  together;  beat  all  thoroughly  and  lastly  add  the  dates.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  DATE  GEMS 

1/2  cup  brown  sugar. 
y2  cup  butter. 

2  eggs. 

1       cup  sour  milk  with  one  teaspoonful  soda. 
iy2  cups  graham  flour. 
y-2.  Ib.  Dromedary  Golden  dates,  chopped. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

3 


DATE  MUSH 

1       pint  cornmeal. 

1      teaspoonful  salt. 

1      tablespoonful  flour. 

1       pint  cold  milk. 

1      Ib.  Chopped  Dromedary  Dates. 

Mix  together  all  ingredients  except  dates,  and  stir  gradually  into 
one  quart  of  boiling  water.  After  boiling  half  an  hour,  add  dates  and 
cook  five  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  cream  for  breakfast,  or  pour  into 
a  dish  and  when  cold,  cut  in  slices  and  fry.  It  may  also  be  poured  into 
individual  molds  and  served  with  sugar  and  cream  for  dessert. 


DATE  MUFFINS 

YZ  Ib.  Dromedary  Dates,  finely  chopped. 
14  cup  butter. 
1       egg  well  beaten. 
1       cup  milk. 
1       pint  flour. 

3      level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Cream  butter,  add  egg  and  beat  in  the  dates  generally.  Add  alter- 
nately the  milk  and  flour,  to  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  added. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  20  minutes  in  buttered  gem  pans. 


SAUCES,  CONSERVES,  etc. 


CURRANT  SAUCE 

1  cupful  of  Royal  Excelsior  cleaned  currants. 

3  cupfuls  of  water. 

7  tabl'espoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar. 

5  whole  cloves. 

Put  the  currants,  water  and  cloves  on  to  boil.  Cook  until  the 
currants  are  soft  enough  to  mash  with  a  spoon,  then  take  from  the 
fire,  mash  enough  to  break  the  skins,  add  the  vinegar  and  sugar  and 
cook  until  thick.  Let  the  sauce  cool  and  serve  with  cold  meats.  It  will 
keep  for  some  tune. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

12  ripe  tomatoes. 

12  large  apples. 

12  green  peppers  (bell  peppers). 

6  large  onions. 

1  Ib.  Eoyal   Excelsior  cleaned  currants. 

1  Ib.  Camel  Brand  figs. 

1/2  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1/2  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper  (scant). 

2  teaspoonfuls  ground  ginger. 
1       quart  vinegar. 

Peel  tomatoes  and  onions;  peel  and  core  apples;  place  onions, 
apples,  peppers  and  figs  in  a  chopping  bowl  and  chop  fine  (or  run  them 
through  a  food  chopper) ;  add  currants,  sugar,  salt  and  spices,  and  boil 
one  hour. 

A  NEW  USE  FOR  CURRANTS 

When  making  pot  roast  with  beef,  add  a  cupful  of  currants.  They 
will  improve  the  appearance  of  the  roast  and  impart  a  delicious  flavor. 

CURRANT  CONSERVE 

1  pint  red  currant  juice. 

2  pounds  Eoyal  Excelsior  currants. 

3  pounds  Royal  Excelsior  raisins  seeded  and  chopped. 

4  pounds  sugar. 

Juice  and  peel  of  four  oranges.    Boil  till  thick,  stirring  constantly. 

DATE  SAUCE 

Prepare  apples  for  stewing,  and  partially  cook.  Add 
Equal  quantity  of  stoned  Dromedary  dates. 
Sugar  to  taste. 

Cook  until  dates  are  tender.    Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


DATE-OLIVE  BUTTER  OR  CREAM 

Dates,  olive  oil,  lemon  juices,  salt,  spice. 

Take  fresh  dates  or  moist  dried  ones.  Remove  pits;  press  fruit 
through  colander.  Place  in  small  mixing  bowl  or  deep  cup.  Add  olive 
oil,  teaspoonful  at  a  time  and  rub  or  stir  till  thoroughly  blended.  Oil 
to  the  amount  of  half  or  more  of  the  bulk  of  fruit  pulp  may  be  added 
as  desired.  If  too  stiff,  thin  with  water  or  lemon  juice.  The  consistency 
may  be  varied  according  to  use  desired.  Salt  or  spice  may  be  added  to 
taste. 

Use  in  place  of  butter  on  toast;  or  as  a  sauce  with  pudding.  Olive 
oil  is  more  palatable  and  digestible  in  such  emulsion  than  clear. 

Other  fruit  pulp  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way.  Stewed  prunes, 
using  no  juice,  are  perhaps  next  best  to  dates. 

FIG  MARMALADE 

3  pounds  pie  plant,  stripped  of  skin  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
2  pounds  Camel  Brand  figs,  chopped. 

4  pounds  sugar. 
1  sliced  lemon. 

Boil  and  skim  thoroughly.    When  clear  and  thick  put  away  in  jars. 

FIG  RELISH 

Take  equal  parts  Camel  Brand  figs. 

Dried  apricots. 

Cook  in  enough  water  to  cover  until  slightly  tender.    Add 
1/2  as  much  sugar  as  fruit. 
1/2  as  much  water  as  sugar. 
Cook  until  the  mixture  is  the  consistency  of  jam. 
Nuts,  chopped  fine. 
Royal  Excelsior  rasins. 
Orange. 

May  be  added  if  desired.  This  is  a  delicious  relish  for  meats  or 
as  a  jam  to  be  eaten  with  bread  and  butter. 


SANDWICHES 


SWEET  SANDWICHES 

y2  lb.  Dromedary  dates,  chopped. 
y2  lb.  Camel  Brand  figs. 
1       cup  Gilt  Edge  cocoamit. 
1       tablespoonful  melted  sweet  chocolate. 
1       scant  cup  sugar. 
1       cup  pecan  meats. 

Pui  the  mixture  into  a  double  boiler,  stir  well.  When  simmered 
about  ten  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  slightly  cooled  beat 
to  a  creamy  consistency  and  spread  upon  "butter  thins"  or  fresh  rye 
bread. 


DATE  SANDWICHES 

Combine  chopped  dates  with  pecan  nut  meats  or  cottage  cheese,  and 
spread  on  slices  of  wheat  bread,  which  has  been  spread  with  thick,  sweet 
cream  or  soft  butter. 


DELICIOUS  SANDWICHES 

ll/2  cups  light  brown  sugar. 
%  cup  water. 

Scant  teaspoonful  butter. 

Boil  until  a  thick  syrup.  Eemove  from  fire  and  add : 
y2  lb.  shredded  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 
y2,  lb-  finely  chopped  Camel  Brand  figs. 
y2  cup  finely  chopped  English  walnut  meats. 

Stir  until  creamy,  pour  into  buttered  dish  and  when  cool  spread  be- 
tween thin  slices  of  entire  wheat  bread. 


CREAM  CHEESE  SANDWICH 

1       cream  cheese. 
y±  package   of  Dromedary  dates. 

A  few  Royal  Excelsior  raisins. 

Run  dates  and  raisins  through  food  chopper  and  mix  with  cheese, 
then  spread  on  thinly  sliced  bread,  either  graham  or  white. 


FIG  WAFERS 

8       Camel  Brand  figs,  chopped  fine  and  cooked  to  a  paste  with 

water  enough  to  merely  cover.    Add 
1       dozen  blanched  almonds,  pounded  fine.    Season  with 

A  little  lemon  juice. 

When  cold  spread  between  lady-fingers  or  sweet  wafers. 

7 


SALADS 

FRUIT  CHEESE  SALAD 

6       Dromedary  dates. 
3       Camel  Brand  figs. 

y2  cup  blanched  almonds. 
1       scant  cup  cream  cheese. 
1       teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  the  ingredients  to  a  paste  and  make  into  balls.  Serve  four  to 
each  person  on  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves,  with  a  mayonnaise  to  which  an 
equal  quantity  of  whipped  cream  has  been  added. 

DATE  AND  COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

Cottage  cheese. 

Dromedary  dates. 

Chopped  pecans. 

Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Lettuce. 

Lemon. 

Maraschino  cherries  or  pimentos. 

Eemove  stones  from  dates  and  insert  tiny  balls  of  cheese  mixed  with 
pecans.  Eoll  dates  in  mayonnaise,  then  in  chopped  nuts.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce, garnished  with  wedges  of  lemon  and  Maraschino  cherries  or  pi- 
mentos. 

CHIFFON  SALAD 

1/2  cup  Camel  Brand  figs. 

1/2  cup  Dromedary  dates. 

1/2  cup  pineapple. 

3  oranges. 
24  cup  sugar. 

Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Whipped  cream. 

Cut  the  oranges  in  halves,  remove  pulp  and  put  orange  shells  on 
ice  to  stiffen.  Cut  the  fruits  into  small  pieces,  add  sugar  and  toss  to- 
gether, with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Fill  each  orange  shell  with  the  mix- 
ture and  heap  whipped  cream  on  top.  Arrange  in  shallow  salad  bowl 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves.  This  makes  an  attractive  and  delicious  salad. 

ORANGE  AND  DATE  SALAD 

1      head  lettuce. 

1      Ib.  Dromedary  dates. 

4  large  oranges. 
French  dressing. 

Separate  the  dates,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  for  two  or 
three  minutes.  Drain,  and  when  dried  in  the  oven,  cool,  stone,  and  cut 
in  halves  lengthwise.  Peel  the  oranges  and  cut  out  the  sections  of  pulp. 
Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce,  arrange  on  a  platter,  pile  the  orange  in  the 
centre  and  surround  with  the  dates.  Add  the  French  dressing  and 
serve. 

8 


DATE  SALAD 

2       medium  sized  apples. 

1  Ib.  Dromedary  dates. 
l/2  Ib.  Pecan  nuts. 

Wash  apples  and  without  paring,  cut  into  half-inch  dice.  Stone 
dates  and  cut  in  quarters.  Mix  together  with  nuts  and  the  following 
dressing : 

2  eggs  beaten. 

4       tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
1       tablespoonful  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

2  tablespoonsfuls  olive  oil. 

Mix  ingredients  together,  except  oil,  and  cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  thickened.  Eemove  from  fire  and  when  cool  add  oil. 


HILLS'  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  cup  Camel  Brand  figs. 

1/2  cup  Gilt  Edge  shredded  cocoanut. 

y2  Ib.  Dromedary  Golden  dates. 
3       oranges. 
3       bananas. 

2  apples. 

1      bunch  celery. 
!/2  pint  cream. 
%'  cup  English  walnuts. 

Chop  all,  except  the  dates,  into  pieces,  not  too  fine.  Mix  all  together 
carefully  with  mayonnaise.  Heap  in  sherbet  cups  and  put  a  spoonful 
of  sweetened  whipped  cream  on  top  and  surmount  with  a  date  cut  in 
four  pieces. 


CAKES,  COOKIES  AND  SWEET  BREADS 


ROCKY  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 

1/2  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 
Whites  of  six  eggs. 

2  teaspoonful's  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  three  layers. 

2       cups  sugar. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten. 
1       cup  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 
1/2  cup  Royal  Excelsior  seeded  raisins,  chopped. 
1/2  cup  Dromedary  dates,  chopped. 
1/2  cup  Camel  Brand  figs,  chopped. 
1/2  cup  Royal  Excelsior  currants. 
1       cup  blanched  almonds,  chopped. 

For  the  filling,  boil  the  sugar  with  enough  water  until  it  threads. 
Pour  slowly  into  the  egg  whites,  beating  steadily  all  the  time,  then  add 
the  fruit  to  the  icing  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  well  blended 
spread  between  the  layers,  and  on  the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake.  On  the 
top  layer,  sprinkle  plenty  of  cocoanut. 


GILT  EDGE  SHREDDED  COCOANUT  CAKE 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1  cup  sugar. 
1  egg. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  sifted  flour. 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg;  then 
the  milk  and  flour  alternately  (the  baking  powder  having  been  previously 
sifted  with  the  flour) ;  and  last,  the  whipped  white  of  the  egg.  Bake 
in  three  jelly  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 

*  •  ~ 

FILLING  FOR  THE  CAKE 

Gilt  Edge  shredded  cocoanut. 

The  juice  of  two  oranges. 

The  grated  rind  of  one-quarter  of  one. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. 

Three  tablespoonfus  of  sugar. 

To  the  orange  juice  and  grated  rind  add  enough  water  to  make  one 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  liquid.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  corn  starch 
made  smooth  in  a  small  quantity  of  "cold  water.  Add  the  sugar  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  done.  Spread  one-third  of  this  mixture 
onto  the  first  layer  of  cake;  sprinkle  with  shredded  cocoanut;  repeat 
operation  with  the  second  and  the  third  layers,  and  finish  with  a  thick 
blanket  of  cocoanut  on  top  of  the  cake. 

10 


DATE  CAKE 

1  1/3  cups  brown  sugar. 
*   1/3  cup  soft  butter. 

2  eggs. 

1/2  cup  milk.    . 
1%  cups  flour. 

3  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
1/2  level  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1/2  level  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

y2  lb.  chopped  Dromedary  Dates. 

Directions  for  making  Date  Cake. — Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
well-beaten  eggs.  Sift  the  baking  powder,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  with 
the  flour  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Beat  all  together  for  three 
minutes  and  add  lastly  the  floured  dates.  Bake  thirty-five  to  forty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven. 

FIG  LOAF  CAKE 

2       cups  light  brown  sugar. 
%  cup  butter. 
1       cup  water. 
314  cups  of  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1       teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1       teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1/2  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
YZ  lb.  Camel  Brand  Figs  cut  in  thin  slices. 
1       cup  Eoyal  Excelsior  cleaned  currants. 
1       cup  Eoyal  Excelsior  seeded  raisins,  chopped. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  spices  and  well-beaten 
eggs.    Add  next  the  water,  then  three  cups  flour  with  which  the  baking 
powder  has  been  sifted.    Dredge  the  fruit  with  one-fourth  cup  flour  and 
beat  in  thoroughly.    Bake  in  two  square,  flat  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  cut  in  cubes  for  serving. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  CHRISTMAS  CAKE 

1      lb.  Eoyal  Excelsior  seeded  raisins,  chopped  rather  coarsely. 

1       lb.  Eoyal  Excelsior  currants  washed  and  drained. 

1       lb.  Camel  Brand  figs  chopped  very  fine. 

1       lb.  Dromedary  dates,  stoned  and  chopped  quite  fine. 

1       lb.  coffee  sugar. 

1       lb.  fat  salt  pork,  chopped  extra  fine. 

1       teacupful  molasses. 

Y$  lb.  lemon  and  citron  peel,  mixed  and  chopped  fine. 
1       teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1       teaspoonful  cloves. 
1       teaspoonful  allspice. 
1       teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1       small  teaspoonful  soda. 

1/2  cup  sour  milk. 

4  eggs. 

5  cups  flour. 

Add  one  teaspoonful  salt  if  pork  is  not  salt  enough.  Bake  in  loaves, 
in  a  very  slow  oven  three  or  four  hours.  This  makes  several'  loaves,  which 
will  keep  indefinitely,  and  improve  with  age. 

11 


COCOANUT  COOKIES 

1/2  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

14  (scant)  cup  milk. 

1  egg. 

1/2  cup  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 

2  cups  flour. 

1       teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  milk  and  egg,  beaten  light,  and 
cocoanut.  Add  flour  sifted,  and  baking  powder.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

ROCKS 

Cream  together: 
1      cup  butter. 
11/2  cups  sugar. 

3  yolks,  beaten. 

1       teaspoonful  soda  in  tablespoonf ul  warm  water. 
1/2  cup  sweet  milk. 

Add  beaten  whites. 
y^  Ib.  Dromedary  dates,  cut  up. 
Y-2.  Ib.  English  walnuts,  chopped. 
1       teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1       teaspoonful  cloves. 
21/2  cups  flour. 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Either  drop  or  bake  in  patty  pans. 

DATE  BREAD 

White  bread  dough. 

1  cup  Dromedary  dates. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  large  spoonful  butter. 

Pit  the  dates,  cut  in  halves,  add  sugar  and  butter  and  work  into  the 
dough.  Put  in  pan,  let  rise  and  bake  in  slow  oven.  It  may  be  served  hot 
or  cold,  and  if  any  is  left,  makes  excellent  sandwiches,  with  a  nut  and  fig 
filling. 

CURRANT  CRULLERS 

1       cup  sugar. 

1  cup  milk  (sweet). 

2  eggs. 

1/2  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  lard. 

1/2  cup  Eoyal  Excelsior  currants. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flour  enough  to  roll. 

Mix  the  sugar,  eggs  and  shortening,  add  the  milk  and  cinnamon, 
lastly  add  the  flour,  and  one-half  cup  of  well-washed  currants.  Eoll  this 
out ;  cut  as  you  do  doughnuts ;  fry  in  deep  lard,  which  is  hot  enough  to 
brown  a  piece  of  dry  bread  when  dropped  in. 

12 


SWEDISH  BUNS 

When  baking  bread  allow  one  pound  of  dough  for  buns.  Work  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  before  rolling  out  one-quarter  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  spread  with  butter,  a  generous  layer  of  sugar  and  dried  cur- 
rants, then  a  sprinkling  of  cinnamon;  begin  at  one  end  and  roll;  cut 
into  slices  an  inch  thick,  place  on  buttered  pan  to  rise  double  original 
bulk;  bake;  ice  when  removed  from  oven. 

DATE  AND  NUT  LOAF 

1       Ib.  Dromedary  dates  (after  stoning). 
1       Ib.  walnut  meats  (halves). 

1  cup  of  flour. 

y2  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  rounding  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
1       cup  sugar. 

4       eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract. 

Mix  salt  and  baking  powder  with  the  flour,  add  to  dates  and  wal- 
nuts, add  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly  again,  add  yolks,  then  fold  in  the 
whites  and  add  the  vanilla.  Pack  into  a  loaf  tin  lined  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour.  This  cake,  wrapped  in  paraffine 
paper,  will  keep  indefinitely  and  improve  with  age. 

CAKE  MADE  FROM  BREAD  DOUGH 

2  cups  bread  dough. 
1/2  cup  sugar. 

1       egg. 

Butter  size  of  egg. 

1  cup  Eoyal  Excelsior  seeded  raisins  and  Eoyal  Excelsior 

currants. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 
1       teaspoonful  cloves. 

Pinch  of  ginger. 

Little  nutmeg. 

i/4  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  water. 

Mix  thoroughly,  adding  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  cake  batter. 
Bake  in  slow  oven. 

CALIFORNIA  DROP  CAKES 

1/2  cup  butter. 
11/2  cups  brown  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

2y2  cups  flour. 

1      level  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  i/2  cup  of  hot  water. 

1       teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1/2  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1       Ib.  English  walnuts   (weighed  in  the  shell)    and  broken 

into  small  pieces. 

1       Ib.  Dromedary  dates,  chopped  fine. 
Drop  from  a  teaspoon  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

13 


FRUIT  GINGER  BREAD 

2      Ibs.  flour. 
t/4  Ib.  butter. 
1       Ib.  sugar. 
1       Ib.  Royal  Excelsior  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  Ib.  Eoyal  Excelsior  cleaned  currants. 

2  cups  molasses. 

y2l  cup  sour  milk  or  cream. 
6      eggs. 

2      tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

1      heaping  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
1       teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
il      teaspoonful  cloves. 

y%  cup  shredded  citron. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  warm  molasses  slightly  and  beat  these  to- 
gether. Then  add  beaten  yolks :  meat,  milk  and  spices,  the  soda :  lastly 
flour  and  well-beaten  egg-whites.  Beat  hard  and  add  the  thickly  dredged 
fruit.  Bake  in  two  broad,  well-lined  pans  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  This 
cake  will  keep  a  long  time. 


DATE  BARS 

Dromedary  dates. 
4  cups  rolled  oats. 
4  cups  (sifted)  flour. 
1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  lard. 
Little  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Eub  ingredients  together  thoroughly,  omitting  dates.  Moisten  with 
one-half  cup  warm  water.  Eoll  into  thin  cookies;  spread  with  stoned 
dates  previously  mashed  to  a  pulp;  fold  over  the  cookies  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 


DATE  MACAROONS 

1  Ib.  Dromedary  dates,  chopped  fine. 
1  Ib.  blanched  almonds,  chopped  fine. 

Whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
1  cup  granulated  sugar. 

Beat  the  sugar  into  the  whites  gradually,  add  the  dates  and  almondc 
and  bake  the  mixture  on  buttered  paper  in  a  moderate  oven. 


14 


PIES 

FRUIT  TURNOVERS 

1       cup  Dromedary  dates,  chopped  very  fine. 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

1       cup  sugar. 

1       heaping  teaspoonful  flour. 

1       tablespoonful  orange  juice. 

Beat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Roll  rich  pie  crust  thin,  cut  in 
four  inch  squares,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  on  one  half,  turn 
the  other  half  over,  press  the  edges  tight  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
These  may  be  varied  by  using  one  cup  chopped  Royal  Excelsior  seeded 
raisins  and  one-half  cup  Royal  Excelsior  currants  in  place  of  the  dates. 

COCOANUT  CHEESE  PIE 

YZ  pint  cottage  cheese. 

1       pint  sweet  milk  or  cream. 

4       eggs. 

4       tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1       cup  Gilt  Edge  shredded  cocoanut. 
The  grated  rind  of  a  small  lemon. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together  until  the  eggs 
are  light,  then  add  the  cottage  cheese,  beat  well,  and  stir  in  the  cocoanut. 
When  well  mixed,  add  the  milk,  or  cream,  by  degrees,  and  lastly  add  the 
lemon  rind.  This  mixture  should  be  put  together  very  lightly.  Line 
pie  tins  with  a  rich  pastry  crust  rolled  thin;  fill  them  with  the  custard 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  thf 
eggs  very  stiff  and  dry,  then  beat  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Spread  this  meringue  over  the  pie? 
when  they  are  baked,  and  brown  a  delicate  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 
These  pies  will  be  found  delicious.  Serve  very  cold. 

THANKSGIVING  SQUASH  PIE 

1  cup  squash,  made  very  fine. 
!/2  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

1/2  teaspoonful  salt. 
1       cup  milk. 

y2  cup  cream. 

1       cup  sliced  Dromedary  dates. 

If  no  cream,  stir  in  lump  of  butter  in  squash  while  warm.  Made 
by  this  rule  it  is  a  dessert  to  make  one  truly  thankful. 

RHUBARB  AND  DATE  PIE 

Cut  the  rhubarb  into  small  pieces  und  let  stand  in  boiling  watei 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  while  making  the  pie  crust.  Line  pie  pan  with 
the  pie  paste  and  fill  with  the  rhubarb,  placing  over  the  top  of  rhubarb 
one  cupful  sugar  and  one  cupful  finely  chopped  Dromedary  Dates.  Bake 
with  or  without  an  upper  crust.  If  without,  spread  whipped  cream  orer 
top  before  sending  to  table.  Eat  hot  or  cold. 

15 


ELYSIAN  COCOANUT  PIE 

Yolks  4  eggs,  beaten  very  thick  and  light. 

1       teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 

4      tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1       pint  rich  sweet  milk  (if  in  doubt  add  pinch  of  soda). 

1      cupful  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 

Add  extract  and  sugar  to  eggs  and  beat  well  again.  Add  milk  slow- 
ly, then  cocoanut.  Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  a  rich  crust ;  pour  in  cocoa- 
nut  mixture  and  bake  in  slow  oven  twenty-five  minutes  or  until  pie 
sets.  Beat  very  stiff  the  four  whites  with  four  scant  tablespoonfuls  of 
confectioner's  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  When  pie  is 
done  take  from  oven  and  let  stand  about  five  minutes,  lower  the  oven 
heat,  spread  the  beaten  whites  nicely  over  top  of  pie.  Eeturn  to  oven 
until  a  light  brown.  Take  from  oven  carefully  and  leave  in  kitchen  until 
cool,  then  put  where  it  will  become  cold. 


LEMON  COCOANUT  PIE 

1       cup  milk. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  cornstarch. 

2  eggs. 

1       lemon. 

y2  cup  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 
1       cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  in  double  boiler;  add  cornstarch,  which  has  been 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water;  stir  until  smooth;  then  add  the  beaten 
yolks  in  which  has  been  beaten  the  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  and  rind 
of  one  lemon;  lastly  add  the  cocoanut.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  and  pour 
into  a  well  baked  pie  crust.  Place  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  have 
been  well  beaten,  together  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  on  top  of 
the  filling,  and  brown  in  an  oven. 


MINCE  MEAT 

2       Ibs.  Lean  beef  boiled  very  tender  and  chopped. 
y2  Ib.  Suet. 
iy2  Ibs.  Royal  Excelsior  raisins  (seeded  and  cut  in  half). 

2  Ibs.  Royal  Excelsior  Cleaned  Currants. 
YZ  Ib.  Citron,  shredded. 

y%  peck  apples. 
i/2  teaspoonful  mace. 
1/2  teaspoonful  allspice. 
1/2  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
y2  teaspoonful  cloves. 

Pepper  and  salt  as  much  as  would  be  served  with  the  meat. 
y2  pint  molasses. 
y2  Ib.  light  brown  sugar. 

3  pints  cider,  or  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cider. 
1       pint  brandy. 

This  is  a  Xew  England  recipe ;  will  keep  all  winter  and  will  make 
fifteen  large  pies. 

16 


PUDDINGS 


FIG  PUDDING 

1  cupful  molasses. 

1  cupful  chopped  suet. 

1  cupful  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs. 

31/2  cupfuls  flour. 

1       teaspoonful  soda. 

1       teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1/2  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1      pint  Camel  Brand  figs  chopped  fine. 

Mix  molasses,  suet,  spices  and  figs;  dissolve  soda  in  tablespoon  hot 
water  and  mix  with  milk,  add  to  mixture,  then  the  well  beaten  egg,  then 
flour.  Turn  into  mold  and  steam  five  hours.  Serve  with  Foamy  Sauce 
made  as  follows:  Cream  one-half  cupful  butter  and  one  cupful  pow- 
dered sugar,  add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry. 
Just  before  serving  stir  in  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water,  and  the  whipped 
white  of  an  egg.  Beat  till  foamy. 


GERMAN  DATE  PUDDING 

1  cupful  Dromedary  Golden  dates  pitted. 

1  cupful  quartered  walnuts. 

1  cupful  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

2  eggs. 

1       teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
1       tablespoonful  flour. 

Stir  eggs,  sugar  and  salt  (do  not  beat  eggs  separately),  add  flour 
and  baking  powder,  then  dates  and  nuts.  Mix  well  and  bake  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  very  slow  oven.  Serve  with  cream,  or  vanilla 
sauce. 


COCOANUT  CREAM  PUDDING 

6       tablespoonfuls  cornstarch. 

2  cups  milk. 
1/2  cup  sugar. 

14  teaspoonful  salt. 
1       teaspoonful  butter. 
1      egg  (yolk). 

3  eggs  (whites,  beaten  stiff). 

1^4  cups  shredded  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 
1       teasponful  vanilla. 

Dissolve  cornstarch  in  4  tablespoonfuls  cold  water.  Add  to  the  milk 
already  scalded  in  double  boiler,  and  when  thick  add  sugar,  salt  and 
egg  yolk  in  which  butter  has  been  beaten.  Fold  in  whites  and  cocoanut 
with  vanilla.  Eemove  from  boiler  and  set  in  mold  to  become  firm. 
Serve  cold  with  vanilla  custard  sauce. 

17 


COCOANUT  PUDDING 

1  pint  of  milk. 
1/2  cup  sugar. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  shredded  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 
MJ  CUP  bread  crumbs. 

1       teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract. 

Bake  about  a  half  hour.  Make  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar,  and  brown  slightly  in  oven. 

INDIAN  SOUFFLE 

1       pint  milk. 
%  cup  cornmeal. 
!/4  cup  flour. 
14  cup  sugar. 
i/4  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  shredded  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 
4      eggs. 

Bring  milk  to  a  boil  in  double  boiler,  add  cornmeal  and  flour  to- 
gether, very  slowly.  Cook  until  thick  and  smooth.  Eemove  from  fire 
and  add  sugar,  salt,  cocoanut  and  beaten  yolks,  mixing  thoroughly.  Fold 
in  stiffly  beaten  whites,  turn  into  buttered  dish,  placed  in  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  in  rather  quick  oven  half  an  hour.  Serve  immediately. 

FIG  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

3  tablespoonfuls  granulated  tapioca. 

2  cups  water. 

1       teasponful  butter. 
Cook  until  clear. 

YZ  lb.  Camel  Brand  figs,  chopped  fine. 
1       cup  water. 
1       cup  sugar. 

Cook  until  smooth  and  thick.      Mix  the  two  together,  adding 
y2  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Serve  cold  in  sherbet  glasses  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 

FIG  PUDDING 

3  eggs,  weighed.    Take  equal  weight  of 
Butter. 

Sugar. 

Bread  crumbs. 

Camerfigs  chopped  and  cooked  to  pulp  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Mix  together  butter,  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs,  figs,  crumbs,  lastly 
whites  of  eggs  whipped  to  a  froth.  Turn  into  covered  quart  mold  and 
steam  for  two  and  a  half  hours;  or  put  into  individual  timbale  molds, 
set  in  pan  of  water,  cover  with  greased  paper  and  put  in  oven  for  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  firm  to  the  touch.  At  the  moment  of  serving,  pour 
over  them  a  little  rum  or  brandy  and  light  with  a  taper.  Serve  with 
wine  sauce  or  any  other  pudding  ^n 

18 


OLD  HOME  PUDDING 

cups  graham  flour. 
1/2  cup  molasses. 
1/2  CUP  melted  butter. 
1       cup  sweet  milk. 
-I      egg. 

1       teaspoonful  soda. 
1       teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
14  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1/2  cup  chopped  Eoyal  Excelsior  raisins. 
1/2  cup  chopped  Dromedary  dates. 
14  cup  Royal   Excelsior  currants. 

Sauce. 

1  cup  sugar. 
1/2  cup  butter. 
1/2  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

White  of  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Beat  all  together  until  creamy. 


FIG  INDIAN  PUDDING 

1  quart  milk. 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  cornmeal. 
1  tablespoonful   cornstarch. 

4  eggs. 

1/2  cup  sugar. 
1/2  teaspoonful  salt. 
1/2  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1       tablespoonful  butter. 
1       cup  chopped  Camel  Brand  figs. 

Soak  figs  ten  minutes  in  warm  water  before  chopping;  boil  the  milk 
and  stir  in  it  the  meal  and  cornstarch  previously  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  milk;  cook  ten  minutes.  Beat  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  two, 
with  the  sugar,  salt  and  cinnamon;  stir  into  milk;  add  butter  and  figs 
dusted  with  flour.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar  and  two  of  cream;  stir  lightly  into  mixture  and  bake 
slowly  one  hour. 

Serve  with  creamy  sauce. 


DATE  CORN  MEAL  PUDDING 

1       pint  milk,  scalded.     Add  slowly. 
1/2  cup  cornmeal. 
1       tablespoonful   butter. 
11/2  cups  sugar. 

%  cup  Dromedary  dates  cut  in  small  pieces. 
1/2  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
Take  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  add  to 

1       pint  cold  milk. 

Stir  all  together.     Bake  until' a  custard  and  serve  hot  with  hard 
sauce  or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

19 


RICE  AND  DATES 

2       quarts  boiling  water. 
1       tablespoonful  salt. 
1      cup  rice  (washed). 

y2  Ib.  Dromedary  dates  (washed  and  stoned). 
1      tablespoonful  sugar. 
y2<  cup  water. 
Cook  until  soft. 

Add  rice  slowly  to  boiling  water,  cook  until  soft,  drain  and  dry  off 
in  warming  oven,  covered  closely.  Make  a  border  around  a  dish  with 
the  boiled  rice  lightly  heaped  up.  Fill  center  with  the  cooked  dates  and 
serve  with  cream. 

FRUIT  DUMPLINGS 

y%  cup  chopped  Camel  Brand  figs. 
y%  cup  chopped  Dromedary  dates. 

'          %  CUP  Royal  Excelsior  raisins  or  Eoyal  Excelsior  currants. 
Mix  two  cupfuls  flour  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  butter 
thoroughly  and  add  enough  water  to  roll  out  nicely.    Cut  out  like  large 
biscuits  and  take  a  portion  of  the  fruit  mixture  and  roll  up  and  bake  as 
apple  dumplings.    Serve  with  lemon  or  vanilla  sauce. 

STUFFED  PEARS 

6       dutchess  pears  or  any  good  baking  pear. 
24  Ib.  Dromedary  Golden  dates,  chopped  fine. 
l/4  Ib.  Walnuts,  chopped  fine. 
y2  cup  sugar. 

Core  the  pears,  and  fill  with  the  dates  and  nuts.  Place  in  a  pan 
with  a  little  water  and  pour  over  the  sugar.  Bake  as  you  would  apples. 

DATE  DAINTY 

1  Ib.  Dromedary  Golden  dates. 
4      eggs  (whites). 

1/2  cup  sugar. 

Seed  and  crush  dates  to  a  paste.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff, 
add  the  sugar,  gradually  beating  all  the  time,  then  stir  in  the  crushed 
dates.  Put  in  earthen  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Served  with  sweet- 
ened whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

WINE  SAUCE 

1/4  cup   butter. 
y2  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  milk. 
2       tablespoonfuls  wine. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  milk  and  wine  very  slowly  to 
the  first  mixture  to  prevent  separating.  Keep  in  a  warm  place  until 
served. 

20 


TAPIOCA  CREAM  WITH  DATES 

1  quart  milk. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  crushed  tapioca. 
A  little  salt. 

Boil  together  in  double  boiler  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  the  ingredi- 
ents frequently. 
Beat  together: 

yolks  of  two  eggs. 
y2  cup  sugar. 

Add  to  tapioca  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Let  cool  and  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  whipping  it  until  no  white  is  to  be  seen.  Add 
one-half  pound  of  Dromedary  Golden  dates.  Pour  into  dish  and  serve 
cold  with  whipped  cream. 

DATE  FRITTERS 

11/3  cups  flour. 
11/2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
1/4  teaspoonful  salt. 
2/3  cup  milk. 
1      egg. 

1  cup  Dromedary  Golden  dates. 

Sift  together  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add 
the  milk  and  egg  and  the  dates  that  have  been  pitted  and  halved.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat,  hot  enough  to  brown  a  piece  of  bread  while 
counting  sixty.  When  cooked,  drain  on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  serve  at  once,  or  can  be  served  with 

FIG  PUFFS 

114  cups  flour. 
1/2  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1       egg. 

1*4  cups  milk. 
%  cup  chopped  Camel  Brand  figs. 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder;  rub  in  the  butter,  then  add  the 
figs,  mixing  them  well  into  the  dry  flour.  Mix  to  a  stiff  batter  with  the 
beaten  egg  and  milk.  Bake  in  small  greased  pans  in  a  moderately  hot. 
oven.  Serve  hot  with  a  sauce. 

DATE  TORTE 

3  eggs. 

1       cup  granulated  sugar. 

1       cup  bread  crumbs. 

1       cup  Dromedary  dates,  chopped. 

1/2  cup  nuts  chopped. 
1       teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  other- 
ingredients.  Bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes . 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

21 


FIG  CROQUETTES 

y*  lb.  Rice. 
1      teacupful  sugar. 
^  teaspoonful  butter. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 
1       quart  milk. 

Yolks  two  eggs. 
1       pinch  salt. 

Camel  Brand  figs. 

Soak  the  rice  in  cold  water  for  three  hours,  then  drain  and  put  into 
a  double  boiler  with  the  milk  and  salt,  and  cook  until  the  rice  is  done. 
Stir  in  the  sugar,  eggs,  and  the  butter,  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly. 
Flavor  with  lemon  juice.  Have  ready  Camel  Brand  figs  that  have  been 
plumped  over  hot  water.  Dust  each  fig  with  a  little  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon. When  the  rice  is  cold  enough  to  handle,  form  it  into  croquettes, 
putting  a  fig  in  each.  Dip  the  croquettes  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  in 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.  When  brown,  take  out,  drain  on 
paper,  and  serve  hot  with  powdered  sugar  or  a  liquid  sauce. 

MASKED  APPLES 

Take  as  many  finely  flavored  apples  as  desired.  Pare,  core  and  steam 
until  tender. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice  poured  over  each  apple.  Powder  thickly 
with  sugar  and  set  away  to  get  chilled. 

Make  1  pint  boiled  custard,  flavoring  with  lemon  juice.    Add 
1       tablespoonful   gelatine,    dissolved    in 
1/2  cupful  boiling  water,  to  the  hot  custard. 
Strain. 

Take  as  many  small  sponge  cakes  or  maccaroons  as  apples,  dip  in 
lemon  juice  and  arrange  in  with  apples  on  top.     Fill  the  apples  with 
Gilt  Edge  Shredded  cocoanut. 
Chopped  Dromedary  dates. 

As  the  custard  thickens  pour  it  over  apples.  Whip  whites  of  eggs 
used  for  custard  stiff  and  dry,  sweeten,  flavor  with  lemon,  set  them  in 
cool  oven  without  browning.  Slip  the  meringue  over  the  custard  when 
it  is  firm  and  set  the  dish  away  to  get  icy  cold. 

RICE  PUDDING 

1  cup  Royal  Excelsior  cleaned  currants. 

y%  cup  citron  (sliced). 

^2  CUP  Dromedary  Golden  dates  (stoned). 

1  cup  Royal  Excelsior  raisins. 

2  cups  rice. 

1       quart  rich  milk. 
1       cup  sugar. 
1       tablespoonful  butter. 
1       tablespoonful  vanilla. 

Wash  rice  and  place  in  an  earthen  baking  dish.  Add  milk,  sugar, 
butter,  fruits  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  slow  oven  three  hours.  Serve  with 
sweetened  whipped  cream. 

22 


DATE  JUNKET 

1       dozen  Dromedary  dates  cut  up. 
1/2  cup  milk. 
Stand  for  ^  hour  on  stove  where  they  will  get  warm,  not  hot.    Heat 

1/2  cup  milk  with 
1       tablespoonful  sugar. 
Dissolve 

1/2  junket  tablet  in 
1       tablespoonful   cold  water. 

When  milk  is  all  lukewarm,  mix  together  quickly,  pour  at  once  into 
a  glass  dish  and  leave  in  a  warm  room  to  set.  When  firm,  put  in  a  cool 
place  until  wanted. 


FIG  SOUFFLE 

30       Camel  Brand  figs,  soaked  until  soft  and  chopped. 
8       eggs  (whites),  well  beaten. 

Stir  figs  into  eggs.  Add 
1/2  cup  sugar. 

Bake  in  hot  oven  20  minutes.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  and 
ground  nuts  on  top. 


FIG  FRITTERS 

1       cup  flour. 

1       teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

Pinch  salt. 

Sift  together.    Add 


1       tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
14  cup  water. 

Beat  well.     When  mixture  is  smooth  add 
1/2  cup  water. 

Just  before  using  fold  in  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg. 
Dip  figs  one  by  one  into  batter  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown. 
Drain  well  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 


DATE  PUDDING 

1  Ib.  stoned  Dromedary  dates,  chopped. 

6  oz.  beef  suet,  chopped. 

12  oz.  grated  bread  crumbs. 

6  oz.  sugar. 

1  egg. 

1/2  cup  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  flour. 

2       teaspoonfuls  (small)  baking  powder. 

Mix  suet  and  bread  crumbs,  add  dates  and  sugar,  then  egg,  milk  and 
flour,  to  which  baking  powder  has  been  added.  Steam  for  three  hours, 
and  serve  with  sauce. 

23 


PRINCESS  FIGS 

As  many  figs  as  desired. 
1  pt.  milk. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  light. 

White  of  1  egg,  whipped. 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Pinch  of  salt. 

1  cup  rich  cream. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (level). 

2      tablespoonfuls  Gilt  Edge  shredded  cocoanut  (heaping). 

Steam  figs  until  plump.  Make  custard  of  milk  heated  in  double 
boiler,  egg  yolks,  sugar,  salt.  Cut  figs  in  halves  and  pour  custard  over 
them.  When  cold,  spread  over  the  whole  the  whipped  egg  white  into 
which  has  been  whipped  the  cream,  sugar  and  cocoanut.  Put  near  the 
ice  to  chill,  and  serve  very  cold. 


DATE  TAPIOCA 

1/2  cup  minute  tapioca. 
3       cups  hot  water. 

Cooked  in  double  boiler  till  clear. 
1       Ib.  Dromedary  dates,  minced. 
3       oranges,  pluped. 
1      lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind. 
1       cup  sugar. 

Mixed  together. 

Put  layer  of  tapioca  in  well-buttered  baking  dish,  then  the  frujl 
mixture;  lastly  cover  with  the  remaining  tapioca  and  bake  half  an  houi 
Cover  with  meringue  and  brown  delicately.      Serve  perfectly  cold  with 
cream. 


DATE  TAPIOCA  CREAM 

Vz  CUP  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in  1  pt.  water. 
1}4  pts.  milk. 

iy2  cups  Dromedary  dates  cut  in  small  pieces. 
14  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cook  until  clear. 
Yolks  2  eggs. 
%  cup  sugar. 
2      tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Beat,  add  to  tapioca  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in 
Stiffly  beaten  whites  2  eggs. 
Vanilla  to  flavor. 

Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream  or  sweetened  cream. 

24 


COMPOTE  OF  FIGS 

1  Ib.  Camel  Brand  figs. 

Sugar. 
1  thick  slice  of  lemon. 

Whipped  cream — kirsch  flavoring. 

Simmer  figs  covered  with  water  for  an  hour.  Remove  figs,  press  into 
natural  shape  and  pile  in  glass  dish.  Take  water  in  which  they  were 
cooked,  adding  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  lemon,  and  boil  until  it  is  a  good 
syrup.  Then  pour  it  over  the  figs.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream 
flavored  with  kirsch.  To  the  fig  water  may  be  added  sugar  cup  for  cup, 
and  boiled  to  the  crack,  and  then  poured  over  the  figs,  giving  them  a 
sugar  coating. 


AMBROSIA 

5  oranges. 

1  cup  shredded  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut,  moistened  with  cream. 
1  cup  cream,  whipped. 
A  few  nuts,  ground. 

1  dozen,  more  or  less,  of  candied  cherries. 

Peel  oranges,  removing  all  tough  skin;  cut  through  twice  and  slice 
thin.  Fill  glass  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  orange  and  cocoanut,  fin- 
ishing with  orange.  Cover  with  whipped  cream,  sprinkle  with  ground 
nuts  and  decorate  with  candied  cherries. 


25 


GELATINE  AND  FROZEN  DESSERTS 


CHERIDATE  DESSERT 

1       pint  cherry  juice  (canned  will  do). 
1      teacupful'  hot  water. 

Juice  of  one-half  lemon. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  gelatine. 
y2  teacupful  cold  water. 

1  heaping  teacupful  Dromedary  Golden  dates,  stoned. 
Put  first  four  ingredients  over  the  fire  in  saucepan.  When  boiling 
add  the  gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved  in  the  cold  water.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  set  saucepan  in  a  pan  of  cold  water.  When  slightly 
thickened,  wet  a  mold  and  put  the  gelatine  mixture  in  alternate  layers 
with  the  Dromedary  Golden  dates.  Set  on  ice  to  chill.  Turn  out  on 
flat  dish  at  serving  time  and  add,  if  desired,  a  border  of  whipped  cream. 
The  combination  of  the  flavors  of  cherries  and  dates  is  novel  and 
delicious. 

FRUIT  JELLY 

1  package  gelatine. 

2  large  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  shredded  pineapple. 

2  lemons. 
4       oranges. 

y%  lb-  Camel  Brand  figs. 

i/2,  lb.  walnuts. 

1/2  cup  preserved  ginger. 

Grapes  and  bananas  can  also  be  used. 
For  making: 

Cover  contents  of  one  package  of  gelatine  with  one  cup  of  cold 
water.  Let  stand  till  soft.  Add  one  quart  of  boiling  water;  two  large 
cups  of  sugar.  Strain  and  let  stand  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then 
stir  in  the  pineapple,  juice  of  the  two  lemons,  the  four  oranges  cut 
into  small  pieces,  the  one-half  pound  of  figs  and  one-half  pound  of 
walnuts,  which  have  been  chopped  fine  and  then  add  the  one-half  cup 
of  preserved  ginger.  Grapes  and  bananas  may  also  be  added. 
The  recipe  is  enough  for  ten  or  twelve  people. 

CITRON  SNOW  PUDDING 

1  cup  citron  (cut  fine). 

1  box  gelatine. 

3  lemons. 
3  oranges. 

1       pint  cold  water, 
pints  hot  water, 
cups  sugar. 
6      eggs  (whites). 

Cover  gelatine  with  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  until  dissolved;  add 
boiling  water,  sugar  and  fruit  juices.  Strain  and  as  soon  as  it  begins 
to  congeal  beat  the  whites  in  well  with  the  citron.  Serve  with  custard 
sauce. 

26 


STUFFED  MOUSSE 

2       doz.  Camel  Brand  figs,  soaked  in  warm  water  till  plump 
and  soft. 

1/3  cupful  candied  pineapple. 
1/3  cupful  pecan  nutmeats. 
1/3  cupful  Maraschino  cherries. 

Chopped  fine  and  soaked  three  hours  in  one-half  cupful  of  liquor 
from  cherries. 

1       pint  thick  cream. 
1       pint  vanilla  ice  cream. 
y2,  cupful  powdered  sugar. 
y2  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract. 

Few  drops  orange  coloring  paste. 

Pack  a  two-quart  melon  mold  in  ice  and  salt,  line  it  with  the 
vanilla  ice  cream,  reserving  enough  to  cover  bottom  of  mold.  Remove 
part  of  seeds  from  figs  and  stuff  with  the  fruits.  Shape  neatly  and 
lay  on  vanilla  cream.  Whip  double  cream  to  stiff  froth,  drain,  add 
vanilla  and  coloring  and  mix  carefully.  Turn  in  center  of  mold, 
filling  every  space.  Cover  the  ice  cream  over  bottom,  put  on  lid,  bind 
with  strip  of  buttered  muslin,  cover  with  salt  and  ice  (three  parts  ice 
to  one  part  coarse  salt)  and  stand  aside  for  at  least  three  hours.  When 
ready  to  serve  remove  to  dish  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cocoanut. 


FROZEN  FIG  PUDDING 

1       quart  cream. 
iy%  tablespoonfuls  gelatine. 
3       eggs. 
1       cup  sugar. 

1/1  Ib.  English  walnut  meats. 
1/4  Ib.  Camel  Brand  figs. 
1       tablespoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Beat  eggs 
and  sugar  until  very  light,  pour  on  the  cream  scalding  hot.  turn  into 
double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Chop  figs  and  nuts 
very  fine  and  add  with  gelatine  to  custard.  Cool,  add  flavoring,  turn 
into  ice-cream  freezer  and  freeze.  After  it  is  frozen,  pack  and  let 
ripen  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  cream,  but 
it  is  not  so  rich. 


DATE  JELLY 

1       Ib.  Dromedary  dates,  stoned. 

English  walnut  meats,  chopped  very  fine,  enough  to  fill 

date  cavities. 

1       pint  strawberry  gelatine  jelly. 
1       pint  orange  gelatine  jelly. 

Pour  half  the  strawberry  mixture  in  a  mold,  and  when  it  begins 
to  harden,  cover  with  layer  of  dates  and  half  the  orange  mixture.  When 
this  hardens,  repeat  the  process  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used.  Keep 
on  ice  until  perfectly  firm.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

27 


CAMEL  FIG  MOUSSE 

G       Camel  Brand  figs. 
1/2  cup  sugar. 
1/2  cup  water. 

1       egg  white,  stiffly  beaten. 
Few  drops  almond  extract. 

1/2  pint  cream,  whipped  stiff. 

Cut  up  figs  in  small  pieces,  add  sugar  and  water  and  cook  slowly 
until  thick  enough  to  pour  over  the  egg  white;  Stir  well;  add  extract 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  add  to  whipped  cream  stirring  as 
little  as  possible  to  blend;  pack  in  a  quart  ice  cream  mold,  which  it 
will  fill  full;  pack  away  to  freeze  for  three  hours.  Eemove  from  mold 
and  serve  like  ice  cream. 

ORIENTAL  CREAM 

1       tablespoonful  gelatine. 
14  cup  cold  water. 
14  cup  scalded  milk. 
i/2  cup  sugar. 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
1/2  pint  heavy  cream. 
1/3  cup  milk. 
Beaten  stiff. 

1/3  cup  Dromedary  dates,  chopped. 
1/3  cup  Camel  figs,  chopped. 
1       tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  milk,  add  sugar.  Strain 
into  pan  set  in  a  larger  pan  of  ice  water  and  stir  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  Add  eggs,  whipped  cream  and  fruits.  Turn  into  a  mold  and 
chill  thoroughly. 

FRUIT  CHARLOTTE 

Cover 

1/2  lb.  Dromedary  dates, 
1/2,  lb.  Camel  Brand  figs. . 
with  water  enough  to  cover  and  stew  until  tender.    Drain  and  pour  over 

1       wineglassful  of  orange  juice. 
Let  fruit  get  very  cold.    Line  a  charlotte  mold  with 

Jady  fingers 
and  put  in  the  chilled  fruit.     Whip 

1/2*  pint  cream. 
Sugar  to  taste.     Soak 

1  tablespoonful  gelatine,  in 

2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water. 

Stand  over  hot  water  until  it  dissolves.     Add 

2       tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Add  immediately  to  whipped  cream,  stir  carefully,  chill  and  put 
on  top  of  fruit.  Sprinkle  over  with 

Toasted  and  crushed  shredded  cocoanut. 
Set  away  to  chill  before  serving. 

28 


COFFEE  FIG  CREAM 

3/2  box  gelatine,  soaked  2  hours  in 
1       cup  cold  water. 
1/2  cup  finely  ground  coffee  in 
1       pint  boiling  milk  for  5  minutes. 
Strain  the  milk  through  a  cloth  and  place  in  double  boiler.     Add 

yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  with 
1       cup  sugar. 

Stir  until  creamy  but  not  thick.     Add  gelatine,  stirring  until  it  is 
dissolved.    Add 

6       Camel  Brand  figs,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
When  this  is  cold  and  begins  to  stiffen,  stir  it  briskly  into 

1       cupful  cream,  whipped 
and  turn  into  wet  mold.     Serve  cold  without  sauce. 


CANDIES 


COCOANUT  FUDGE 

2  cups  granulated  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  Gilt  Edge  cocoanut. 
iy2  square  chocolate  shaved  fine. 

butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  cup  milk. 

Boil  ingredients  except  cocoanut  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  Gilt 
Edge  cocoanut.  Continue  beating  until  cool.  Spread  on  buttered  plates, 
then  cut  in  squares. 

DATE  FUDGE 

2  cups  granulated  sugar. 
%  Ib.  Dromedary  Dates. 

2       squares  Baker's  chocolate. 
y2  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Butter  size  of  an  English  walnut. 

Boil  four  minutes,  remove  from  fire;  add  vanilla  and  Dromedary 
dates  that  have  been  cut  in  small  pieces.  Stir  until  creamy;  put  in  but- 
tered pan  to  cool. 

BAKED  CITRON  FUDGE 

2  egg  yolks  beaten  until  lemon-colored. 

1  cup  sugar. 

14  cup  melted  butter. 

2  squares  melted  chocolate. 
1/2  cup  flour. 

Lastly  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  pour  into  a  shallow 
square  tin  over  which  has  been  spread  one-half  cup  citron  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  thirty  minutes,  and  cut  in  squares 
when  cool. 


COCOANUT  CREAM  CANDY 

2       teapoonfuls  butter. 
iy2  cups  sugar. 

y2.  cup  milk. 
1       cupful  Gilt  Edge  shredded  cocoanut. 

y2  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Boil  first  three  ingredients  twenty  minutes,  stirring  only  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Eemove  from  the  stove,  add  one  cupful  of  shredded 
cocoanut  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  then  beat  until  creamy  and 
pour  into  buttered  tins.  (This  is  unusually  nice,  and  poured  over  choco- 
late fudge  the  combination  is  exceedingly  delicious.) 

30 


FRUIT  AND  NUT  CARAMELS 

Take  equal  portions  of  nut  meats,  Camel  Brand  figs  and  Dromedary 
dates,  and  pass  through  the  meat  grinder.  Mix  together  thoroughly  and 
place  in  a  square  shallow  baking  tin  and  pack  down  tight  and  even,  using 
a  rolling  pin  or  the  blade  of  a  broad  knife.  When  packed  the  layer 
should  be  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  in  squares  and  wrap 
in  oiled  paper. 


FIG  BRITTLE 

Melt  one  pound  white  sugar  in  granite  saucepan,  have  one-half 
pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  stir  them  in  the  melted  sugar  and  pour  in  pan 
one  inch  thick.  Cut  in  strips  and  serve. 


DATE  DAINTIES  FOR  TRAVELERS 

Stone  as  many  Dromedary  dates  as  desired,  stuff  with  broken  Eng- 
lish walnut  meats,  pecan  halves,  bits  of  candied  ginger,  candied  pineapple, 
roasted  almonds  and  fondant  flavored  with  juice  of  lemon.  Eoll  each 
one  in  granulated  or  powdered  sugar.  Pack  in  layers,  in  a  tin  box,  cov- 
ering each  layer  with  paraffin  paper.  These  will  keep  indefinitely  and 
are  nourishing. 


GOLF  BALLS 

Take  a  pound  each  of  Dromedary  dates,  Camel  Brand,  figs  and 
English  walnuts.  Wash  figs,  stone  dates  and  grind  through  meat  grinder 
.to  a  fine  pulp,  then  add  the  nuts,  chopped  almost  to  a  powder,  and  mix 
all  thoroughly  together.  Mold  the  paste  into  balls,  the  size  of  golf  balls, 
and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  To  mark  them  in  squares,  like  a  golf  ball, 
use  a  sharp  pointed  knife,  or  roll  with  butter  pats.  This  confection 
is  extremely  beneficial  as  well  as  a  delicious  candy.  Especially  pleasing 
as  a  "dainty"  at  afternoon  teas. 


COCOANUT  SNOW 

3  cups  white  sugar. 

1/2  cup  maple  sugar. 

2/3  cup  water. 

1  teasponful  vanilla  or  pineapple. 

2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
1.1/2  cups  shredded  cocoanut. 

Boil  together  the  first  three  ingredients  until  a  soft  ball  forms  when 
tested  in  cold  water.  Add  flavoring  and  pour  on  to  the  beaten  whites, 
beating  constantly  until  slightly  cool.  Then  pour  the  mixture  into  a 
buttered  pan  on  which  the  cocoanut  has  been  spread.  When  almost  cold, 
cut  into  squares. 

31 


CREAMED  DATES 

Butter. 

Confectioner's  sugar. 

Finely  chopped  Dromedary  Dates. 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  as  for  hard  sauce.  Add  dates. 
The  mass  may  be  mounded  upon  a  dish,  or  made  into  small  confections 
and  rolled  in  granulated  sugar.  The  latter  is  preferable  if  a  confection 
is  desired,  but  since  this  is  a  delicious  sauce  as  an  accompaniment  to  a 
Christmas  pudding,  the  simple  loaf  is  most  easily  handled.  When  used 
as  a  confection,  a  variation  may  be  reached  by  rolling  some  of  the  bits 
in  Gilt  Edge  shredded  cocoanut  instead  of  in  granulated  sugar. 


STUFFED  DATES 

}4  cup  granulated  sugar. 
y^  cup  milk. 

Place  in  saucepan  and  boil  rapidly  without  stirring.  Keep  sides  of 
pan  free  from  granules.  When  a  soft  ball  forms  in  cold  water,  pour 
cream  on  a  shallow  platter.  Beat  with  a  wooden  fork  until  stiff.  Then 
stir  in  %  cup  of  shaved  walnut  or  pecan  meats  and  mold  quickly  with 
hands  into  a  sheet,  one-quarter  inch  thick.  While  cooling,  stone  a 
dozen  Dromedary  dates.  Cut  from  the  fondant  with  a  sharp  knife  a 
piece  as  long  as  a  date  and  one-quarter  inch  wide.  Press  into  the  date 
and  press  date  naturally  around  its  imitation  stone.  Serve  soon. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

SWEET  GREEN  PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  FIGS 

Use 

1/2  cup  bread  crumbs. 
1/2  cup  cold  cooked  ham,  chopped  fine. 
1/2  cup  Camel  Brand  figs  run  through  meat  chopper. 
Mix  all  together  and  add  one  pinch  salt,  a  tiny  bit  of  paprika  and 
a  lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut.     Soften  all  with  sweet  milk  or  stock 
stuff  into  sweet  green  peppers  from  which  seeds  have  been  removed. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs.    Bake  until  tender. 

FIG  SYRUP 

Cut  one  pound  of  Camel  Brand  figs  into  small  bits  and  put  them 
into  a  wide  mouthed  jar  containing  one  pint  of  Holland  gin.  Take  one 
teaspoonful  occasionally. 

ELDER  BLOSSOM  WINE 

1       quart  elder  blossoms. 
9       pounds  sugar. 

1  yeast  cake. 

3       gallons  water. 

2  pounds  Eoyal  Excelsior  seeded  raisins. 
1       pound  Camel  Brand  figs. 

1       pound  Dromedary  dates. 
1/2  cup  lemon  juice. 

Put  sugar  and  water  over  fire  to  dissolve  sugar,  let  come  to  boil 
without  stirring.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  skim  and  add  blossoms — picked 
carefully  from  stems  and  packed  full  in  quart  measure.  Stir  well,  take 
from  fire  and  cool.  When  luke  warm  add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  warm 
water  and  the  lemon  juice.  Put  in  earthen  jar  and  let  stand  for  six  days 
— stirring  the  blossoms  from  bottom  of  jar  several  times  daily.  On 
seventh  day  strain  through  a  cloth  and  add  raisins,  dates  and  figs.  Cover 
tightly  and  bottle  in  January.  Looks  and  tastes  like  champagne. 


HOME-MADE  LAXATIVE 

1/2  pound  prunes. 
1/2  pound  Camel  Brand  figs. 
1/2  pint  molasses. 
1/4  pound  pulverized  senna. 

Warm  the  molasses,  stir  in  the  senna,  then  add  the  prunes  and 
Camel  brand  figs;  mix  thoroughly. 

Dose — A  piece  the  size  of  a  small  hickory  nut,  vary,  larger  or  smaller 
according  to  need. 

33 


HINTS  ON  USING  CITRON 

Set  the  citron  in  the  oven  before  slicing,  until  heated  through.  It 
will  then  not  gum  on  the  knife,  but  can  be  sliced  with  ease  and  swift- 
ness. 

For  a  pleasing  change,  substitute  citron  in  any  recipe  calling  for 
raisins. 

It  is  a  great  improvement  to  a  loaf  of  plain  white  cake  to  add  a 
cup  of  diced  and  floured  citron. 

For  the  daintiest  cake  decoration  imaginable  make  stems  and  leaves 
of  citron  and  use  bits  of  candied  cherries  for  buds  and  flowers.  Cut 
thread-like  strips  off  the  outside  of  the  citron — its  greenest  part — for  the 
long  stems  which  should  be  artistically  arranged  on  the  iced  cake.  Then 
cut  thin  oval  bits  of  green  citron  to  simulate  leaves,  and  arrange  on 
the  stem.  Make  short  stems  branching  off,  to  which  the  flowers  may 
be  joined. 


LIST  OF  PRIZE  WINNERS 


Aitken,  A.  C.,  6455  Hillegass  Avenue,  Oakland,  Cal. 

Armbruster,  G.,  3345  Park  Avenue,  Chicago,  111. 

Baker,  Mrs.  E.  P.,  4951  Pasadena  Avenue,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

Barber,  Anabel  R.,  Hawarden,  Iowa 

Bardal,  Rose,  R.  F.  D.  2  Porter,  Minn. 

Barker,  W.  M.,  81  Division  Street,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Berry,  E.  S.,  Box  706,  Meriden,  Conn. 

Bowyer,  J.  F.,  209  S.  Arno  Street,  Albuquerque,  N.  M. 

B.,  H.  S.,  Vancouver,  B.  C. 

Branch,  Ruby,  2123  Hershell  Street,  Jacksonville,  Fla. 

Brown,  J.  L.,  Route  1,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Chipman,  E.  A.,  160  North  Street,  Tufts  College,  Mass. 

Cochrane,  E.  G.,  Crete,  Neb. 

Cooper,  E.  S.,  Almond,  Wis. 

Copeland,  Marion  W.,  328  West  83rd  Street,  New  York  City 

Gushing,  Inez  S.,  Benton,  111. 

Dane,  Lilian,  Harwick  Port,  Cape  Cod,  Mass. 

Dreisbach,  G.,  1214  Mount  Vernon  Street,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Dunwoody,  H.,  West  Point,  N.  Y. 

Fordrescher,  Miss  H.,  810  Prospect  Street,  Elgin,  111. 

Fulton,  David,  Valier,  Mont. 

George,  Alma,  Box  61,  San  Dimas,  Cal. 

Gill,  Mrs.  J.  H.,  Springfield,  Tenn. 

Gorham,  Hannah,  368  College  Street,  Burlington,  Vt. 

G.,  M.  D.,  South  Manchester,  Conn. 

Hall,  E.  C.,  Brewster,  Mass. 

H.,  A.  H.,  Dunlap,  Iowa 

Henderson,  C.,  Neunan,  Ga. 

Holden,  R.  W.,  190  Wellington  Avenue,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

H.  I.  D.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
Jellum,  Lottie,  Coeur  d'Alene,  Idaho 
Judd,  M.  L.,  Brooklyn,  Iowa 

Kleeman,  L.  F.,  336  Avenue  A,  San  Antonio,  Texas 
Krusa,  H.  B.,  Redwood,  N.  Y. 
Lamb,  A.  E.,  35  Dove  Street,  Albany,  N.  Y. 
Lane,  E.  C.,  Box  999,  El  Paso,  Texas 
Leeds,  Anna  M.,  Lincoln,  111. 
Long,  W.  B.,  Mt.  Pleasant,  Tenn. 
Lovell,  F.  O.,  597  Downer  Avenue,  Milwaukee,  Wise. 
Lynch,  K.  P.,  117  McCallie  Avenue,  Chattanooga,  Tenn. 
M.,  L.  C.,  Northampton,  Mass. 
McGarry,  J.,  29  Pine  Grove  Avenue,  Summit,  N.  J. 
McQuat,  Box  355,  Paonia,  Colo. 
Mason,  E.  L,  Galesburg,  111. 

Moore,  M.  E.  Olive  Gray,  305  Merchants  Trust  Building,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 
Moore,  S.  C.,  1539  Vincennes  Avenue,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

35 


Moran,  E.,  2416  Pennsylvania  Avenue,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Moran,  M.  E.,  24 16  Pennsylvania  Avenue,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Moran,  W.  P.,  2416  Pennsylvania  Avenue,  Washington,  D.  C. 

M.,  C.  W.,  Nashville,  Tenn. 

Norton,  M.,  77  Clayton  Street,  Harrison  Square,  Boston,  Mass. 

Parker,  I.  A.,  122  East  Washington  Lane,  Germantown,  Pa. 

Peabody,  W.  H.,  74  Pine  Grove  Avenue,  West  Lynn,  Mass. 

Phelps,  C.  H.,  7  Short  Street,  Concord,  N.  H. 

Pierson,  F.,  University  Place,  Neb. 

Sage,  M.  D.,  322  Julian  Street,  Belvidere,  111. 

Sinks,  E.,  Morrison  Avenue  and  Boulevard,  Tampa,  Fla. 

Smith,  K.  E.,-1011  Lawrence  Street,  Columbus,  S.  C. 

Stelzner,  M.  B.,  Shawnee,  Okla. 

Stoy,  C.,  917  North  Ninth  Street,  Lafayette,  Ind. 

Stover,  A.  C.,  323  West  Gary  Street,  Richmond,  Va. 

Suttle,  J.  H.,  Denison,  Texas 

Swainson,  E.  M.,  West  Boulevard,  Vineland,  N.  J. 

T.,  E.  R.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa 

Taylor,  L.,  233  Washington  Street,  Winchester,  Mass. 

Taylor,  R.  W.,  55  North  Pearl  Street,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Tilden,  G.,  Vernon,  Mich. 

Ulrich,  A.,  398  McDonough  Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Warlow,  T.  P.,  Orlando,  Fla. 

Wheeler,  L.  114  Eckford  Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Whitham,  G.  L.,  3108  North  Griffin  Avenue,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

Whitney,  F.,  2048  Polk  Street,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

Williams,  T.  A.,  1020  Third  Avenue,  Columbus,  Ga. 

Wilson,  A.  B.,  Northfield,  Mass. 

Winenow,  F.  E.,  269  Richland  Avenue,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

Young,  G.  D.,  1702  Kauffman  Avenue,  Vancouver,  Wash. 


36 


