0 
0 

0 
5 

— =- 

7 
7 



1 

4i 

A 

^^^^"TS  > 

4  : 

6  '' 

THE 

DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 


CONTAINING 


Full  Instructions  for  Cooking  with 
the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove 


PRICE  25  CENTS 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  DURHAM  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

MUNCiE,  INDIANA 


CONTENTS 


Directions  Electric  Fireless 11 

Directions   6-12 

Meats   13-24 

Soups 25-30 

Vegetables   31-37 

Cereals 38-40 

Bread  and  Puddings 41-48 

Pies    49-51 

Cakes   52-57 

Stewed  Fruit  58-59 

Canning  Fruit 60 


FOR  ITEMIZED  INDEX 
SEE  PAGE  61 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 
SAINTA  BARBARA 


Sntrobuction 

^^ 

^^ 

The  Duplex  Fireless  Stove  is  the  result  of  careful 
study  and  experimenting  with  all  the  known  heat  insul- 
ating materials.  It  is  scientifically  constructed,  is  easy 
to  operate  and  cooks  the  food  thoroughly.  It  retains  all 
the  natural  flavor  of  the  food  and  makes  it  more  nour- 
ishing and  easily  digested. 

The  Duplex  arrangement  gives  compactness,  making 
the  single  opening  stove  as  serviceable  as  a  two  com- 
partment cooker.  The  double  opening  stove  is  equivalent 
to  a  three  compartment  cooker.  The  three  compartment 
Duplex  Stove  has  a  cooking  capacity  equivalent  to  a 
cooker  having  five  or  six  compartments. 

Note  on  page  5  of  the  cook  book  the  double  insula- 
tion and  double  cooking  capacity  of  the  Duplex  Stoves 
as  shown  by  the  sectional  view  illustration.  Note  the 
exclusive  Duplex  construction  is  such  that  you  can  cook 
a  whole  meal  in  the  stove,  either  for  a  large  or  small 
family. 

The  Duplex  Stove  is  not  only  an  economical  and  labor 
saving  device  for  the  housekeeper,  but  a  practical  and 
convenient  piece  of  furniture  for  the  modern  kitchen. 


DUPLEX  FIRELESS  STOVE 

SECTIONAL  VIEW 
Showing  manner  of  nsing  the  Roastini:  and  Baking  Stones 


Large  Opening  in  Stove 
Y — 12-quart  aluminum  cooking  vessel. 
S — Roasting  disk  supported  by  hook  in  top  of  cooking 

vessel. 
SI — Roasting  disk  at  bottom  of  well. 

Smaller  Opening  in  Stove 
Y-Y — Two  4-quart  aluminum  cooking  vessels. 
S — Improved  heating  disk. 

In  Baking 

Remove  the  12-quart  cooking  vessel,  place  the  baking 
rack  with  article  to  be  baked  on  top  of  the  hot  disk  81 ; 
then  place  the  other  hot  disk  on  top  of  the  baking  rack. 

In  case  a  very  intense  heat  is  desired  the  disk,  SI, 
may  be  placed  inside  the  baking  rack  and  the  baking  pan 
set  directly  on  the  hot  disk.  Either  stone  or  metallic 
heating  disks  furnished.  We  recommend  stone,  as  it  is 
a  better  heat  retainer.  4 


SECTIONAL  VIEW 


The  sectional  view  of  the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove  is 
shown  in  order  that  every  cook  using  a  Duplex  may 
know  how  safely  and  efficiently  the  Duplex  is  con- 
structed. 


5TOO.  ON  BftCK  OP  siovt  1 


HAnlxe   TO  SfQvt 


COOKtNC   VCSS£L 


AOikSTiNO   OOKS 


NOTE — The  efficient  and  safe  way  the  stove  is  insulated. 

NOTE — The  great  economy  of  space,  giving  the  Duplex 
Stove  a  large  cooking  capacity. 

NOTE — The  deep  wells  make  it  possible  to  cook  a  small 
quantity  as  successfully  as  a  large  quantity,  because 
every  article  of  food  that  is  being  cooked  assists  in 
cooking  other  articles  of  food  placed  in  the  same  well. 
When  one  article  only  is  being  cooked,  the  lower  ves- 
sel may  be  filled  with  boiling  water,  thus  insuring 
enough  heat  units  in  the  well  to  cook  thoroughly,  even 
if  the  quantity  of  food  is  very  small. 

NOTE — The  deep  wells  make  it  possible  to  cook  a  large 
variety  of  food  in  the  Duplex. 

NOTE — The  exclusive  Duplex  Construction  is  such  that 
a  whole  meal  can  be  cooked,  either  for  a  large  or 
small  family. 

5 


Jlirectionsi 


Before  using  a  new  Duplex  Fireless  Stove  it  is  best 
to  wash  the  wells  out  with  soap  and  water,  then  scald 
with  hot  water  and  wipe  perfectly  dry.  ALWAYS 
LEAVE  THE  LIDS  UP  WHEN  THE  STOVE  IS  NOT 
IN  USE. 

In  order  to  keep  the  wells  clean  and  pure,  wash  dry 
and  air  them  each  time  after  cooking  in  the  stove. 

After  cooking  meat,  or  food  of  a  greasy  nature  in  the 
Duplex,  always  wash  or  wipe  out  carefully,  using  hot 
water  (never  apply  SODA  to  the  aluminum  part  of  the 
stove  or  equipment,  as  an  alkali  will  discolor  aluminum 
and  turn  it  a  dark  color). 

Put  the  stove  out  doors  once  a  week,  giving  it  an 
airing  and  allow  the  sun  to  shine  in  the  wells. 

By  following  the  above  directions  the  wells  in  the 
stove  will  remain  pure  and  clean  and  there  will  be  no 
danger  of  retaining  and  imparting  flavor  of  whatever  is 
cooked  in  the  Duplex  to  foods  that  are  sensitive  to  for- 
eign  odors. 

PRINCIPLE  OF  FIRELESS  COOKING 

The  principle  of  fireless  cooking  is  merely  the  retain- 
ing of  heat  by  insulation,  just  as  cold  is  retained  in  the 

6 


ice  box  or  refrigerator  by  insulation.  Ordinarily  we 
heat  food  to  the  boiling  point  and  then  leave  it  over  the 
fire  or  in  the  oven  to  keep  it  at  a  cooking  degree  of  beat, 
and  to  do  this,  on  account  of  radiation,  we  must  keep  on 
supplying  heat. 

When  cooking  in  the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove,  the  in- 
sulation retains  all  the  heat,  thus  maintaining  a  cooking 
temperature  without  adding  more  heat.  Herein  lies  the 
economy  in  fuel.  The  Duplex  Stove  will  save  three- 
fourths  of  the  gas,  wood  or  coal  used  when  cooking  in  a 
kitchen  range. 

HOW  TO  AVOID  DIFFICULTIES 

Always  remove  the  hot  disks  from  the  stove  after 
cooking  is  finished,  and  put  them  in  a  dry,  warm  place. 
If  the  baking  and  roasting  disks  are  left  in  the  stove,  or 
placed  in  a  damp  place,  they  will  absorb  moisture  and 
when  heated,  steam  will  be  generated  which  may  cause 
them  to  crack.  When  the  disks  are  not  in  use,  it  is  a 
good  plan  to  place  them  on  a  hot  air  register,  a  steam 
radiator,  or  where  the  sun  will  shine  on  them. 

Don't  scrape  or  scratch  with  a  knife  the  aluminum 
lining  of  stove,  or  the  aluminum  cooking  vessels.  Don't 
use  ashes,  lye,  washing  powder  or  soap  containing  alkali 
to  clean  the  aluminum  stove  lining  or  aluminum  cooking 
vessels. 

THE  HOT  DISKS 

Heat  the  disks  on  stove,  or  over  gas,  oil  or  alcohol 
flame.  Apply  moderate  heat  at  first  until  the  disks  are 
warm  through,  then  intense  heat  may  be  applied.  The 
disks  should  be  heated  sufficiently  hot  to  brown  paper 
or  to  brown  a  small  quantity  of  flour  placed  on  the  disks 
when  they  are  being  heated.  An  experienced  cook  can 
test  the  disks  for  proper  degree  of  heat  as  you  would 
a  sad  iron. 

7 


The  time  required  to  heat  the  disks  is  from  10  to  20 
minutes,  depending  on  the  size  and  intensity  of  the  fire. 

The  disks  can  be  heated  more  quickly  and  will  get 
much  hotter  if  an  inverted  pan  is  put  over  them  when 
being  heated,  thus  confining  the  heat  of  the  flame  around 
the  disks. 

When  the  disks  are  used  quite  hot,  steam  will  be 
generated,  but  the  vent  in  the  lid  of  the  Duplex  Fireless 
Stove  automatically  releases  the  steam  pressure.  This 
escapement  of  steam  does  not  lessen  the  cooking  effi- 
ciency of  the  Duplex,  in  fact,  a  slight  escapement  of 
steam  is  an  advantage. 

Every  good  cook  knows  that  when  cooking  in  a 
kitchen  range  it  is  advantageous  to  have  a  hot,  dry  oven. 
The  same  principle  holds  true  when  cooking  in  the  fire- 
less  stove,  especially  in  roasting  and  baking.  If  a  strong 
pressure  of  steam  was  retained  in  the  fireless  stove,  it 
would  not  bake  a  crust  or  roast  meat  brown. 

The  catch  on  the  Duplex  Stove  lid  is  adjustable,  so 
that  the  lid  of  stove  may  be  fastened  down  tight,  or  left 
slightly  loose,  thus  confining  more  or  less  of  the  steam 
as  the  nature  of  the  food  requires,  to  obtain  the  best 
results. 

While  heating  the  disks,  prepare  the  food  ready  to  be 
placed  in  the  Duplex,  and  place  vessel  containing  food 
on  disk,  thus  gaining  time  and  accumulating  greater 
initial  heat. 

PRACTICAL  FIRELESS  COOKING 
HOW  TO  COOK  SUCCESSFULLY 

Good  cooking — whether  it  be  done  with  the  Duplex 
Fireless  Stove,  the  gas  stove,  the  electric  stove  or  the 
ordinary  kitchen  stove — requires  patience,  experience, 
good  judgment  and  some  knowledge  of  the  eff'ect  of 
moist  and  dry  heat  upon  certain  foods. 

You  «an  not  put  hastily  and  poorly  prepared  dishes 


in  the  fireless  stove  and  take  them  out  as  delicious  tri- 
umphs of  culinary  art.  After  a  little  experience  the 
average  cook  will  have  no  difficulty  in  cooking  in  a 
Duplex  Fireless  Stove. 

Always  bear  in  mind  that  the  essential  thing  in  suc- 
cessful fireless  cooking  is  to  have  enough  heat  units 
confined  in  the  fireless  stove,  when  closed,  to  cook  the 
food. 

Bear  in  mind  that  a  kettle  full  of  boiling  food  will 
keep  hot  longer  than  a  kettle  only  partly  filled ;  and  when 
boiling,  steaming  or  stewing,  a  small  quantity  of  one 
article  of  food,  it  is  advisable  to  use  the  top  vessel  and 
put  boiling  water  in  the  lower  vessel. 

When  cooking  two  articles  of  food,  it  is  better  to 
place  the  vessel  containing  the  smaller  quantity  on  top 
of  the  vessel  containing  the  larger  quantity  of  food. 

The  length  of  time  it  takes  to  cook  food  thoroughly 
in  the  fireless  stove  can  be  only  approximately  given. 
The  time  required  depends  on  the  kind  of  food  being 
prepared,  the  amount  of  heat  units  in  the  hot  disks  and 
contained  in  the  food  itself,  when  confined  in  the  fireless 
stove. 

The  essential  thing  to  do  is  to  place  the  food  in  the 
Duplex  in  plenty  of  time  so  there  will  be  no  need  of 
removing  it  short  of  the  estimated  time  given  in  the 
Duplex  Cook  Book. 

The  Duplex  will  retain  a  cooking  temperature  from 
four  to  five  hours,  and  the  food  can  be  left  in  the  stove 
four  or  five  hours  longer  before  it  cools. 

To  sum  the  matter  up,  skill  in  cooking  in  the  fireless 
stove  means  a  combination  of  experience  and  judgment 
obtained  by  following  Duplex  Cook  Book  Directions. 

BOILING,  STEWING  AND  STEAMING 

Prepare  the  article  to  be  cooked  in  the  usual  way  by 
bringing  the  food  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  it  boil  the 

9 


required  time  as  given  in  the  Duplex  Cook  Book,  the 
time  depending  on  the  article,  as  some  foods  require 
longer  boiling  than  others,  then  transfer  to  the  Duplex; 
or,  pour  boiling  water  over  the  food  and  have  the  two 
disks  sufificiently  hot,  then  place  in  the  Duplex  without 
being  brought  to  the  boiling  point. 

When  cooking  the  food  on  your  gas  stove  or  what- 
ever means  of  heating  you  have,  it  is  necessary  that  the 
clamps  on  the  kettle  holding  the  cover  are  to  be  off,  and 
put  on  only  when  ready  to  be  transferred  into  the 
Fireless. 

It  is  absolutely  necessary  that  the  vessels  which  we 
furnish  with  the  Duplex  are  to  be  used,  and  the  food  not 
transferred  to  other  vessels  and  then  placed  in  the  Du- 
plex Fireless  Stove. 

BAKING 

Two  hot  disks  are  used,  one  at  bottom  of  well  on 
which  the  rack  with  article  to  be  baked  is  placed,  the 
other  hot  disk  is  put  on  top  of  baking  rack.  The  disks 
should  be  made  quite  hot.  Test  for  sufficient  degree  of 
heat  by  placing  a  little  flour  on  the  disks  while  heating 
them,  and  when  the  flour  browns  the  disks  are  ready 
to  be  used. 

The  adjustable  catch  on  lid  of  stove  should  be  only 
slightly  fastened,  so  the  excess  of  steam  will  escape,  in 
order  that  there  will  be  a  dry  heat  in  stove  for  baking. 

About  the  same  length  of  time  is  required  to  bake  in 
the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove  that  is  required  to  bake  in  an 
ordinary  oven. 

ROASTING 

Two  hot  disks  are  used,  one  in  the  bottom  of  well  on 
which  cooking  vessel  (containing  roast)  rests,  the  other 
disk  is  supported  by  the  hook  in  top  of  the  cooking  ves- 
sel, as  sho-vsTi  in  sectional  ^iew  of  the  large  opening  in 
stove.    In  cooking  a  roast  no  water  is  used  and  no  bast- 

10 


ing  is  required,  as  there  is  no  evaporation  in  the  Duplex. 

The  Duplex  adjustable  stove  lid  catch  should  be  only 
slightly  fastened,  thus  allowing  the  excess  of  steam  to 
escape  and  give  a  dry  heat  so  the  meat  will  roast  brown. 

The  time  required  to  cook  a  roast  in  the  Duplex  is 
from  one-fourth  to  one-third  longer  than  is  required  in 
an  ordinary  oven.  (Allow  20  to  25  minutes  for  each 
pound.) 

SUGGESTIONS 

Every  housekeeper  has  her  own  way  of  preparing  and 
flavoring  different  articles  of  food  and  by  following  the 
Duplex  directions,  she  can  use  any  of  her  own  recipes  or 
recipes  from  any  cook  book,  and  cook  the  food  success- 
fully in  the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove. 

A  clean,  white  cloth  may  be  folded  and  laid  on  top 
of  the  cooking  vessel  to  absorb  any  excess  of  steam  and 
moisture. 

It  is  advisable,  especially  in  roasting  or  baking,  to 
use  the  Duplex  Aluminum  Mat.  It  protects  the  stove 
lining  and  conserves  the  heat  by  insulating  the  hot  disk 
from  direct  contact  with  the  bottom  of  well. 

COOKING  IN  THE  DUPLEX  ELECTRIC  FIRELESS 

1.  Unscrew  electric  light  bulb. 

2.  Pull  apart  the  connection  at  end  of  the  stove  cord 
and  screw  the  detached  portion  into  the  electric  light 
bulb  socket. 

3.  Turn  on  the  electric  current  by  turning  the  key 
of  the  electric  light  bulb  socket. 

4.  Now  apply  the  electric  current  to  stove  by  joining 
the  connections  at  end  of  stove  cord  which  you  pulled 
apart. 

5.  When  the  electric  current  is  to  be  disconnected 
from  stove  pull  apart  the  connection  at  end  of  stove  cord. 
(Do  not  use  key  of  the  electric  light  bulb  socket  to  turn 

11 


the  electric  current  on  and  off  the  stove,  as  it  is  always 
better  to  attach  and  detach  the  connection  at  end  of  stove 
cord.) 

6.  After  the  electric  current  has  been  connected  with 
stove  a  few  minutes  to  warm  the  oven,  then  place  the 
food  in  stove.  Voltage  of  the  Duplex  Electric  is  from 
105  to  115. 

In  cooking  in  the  Duplex  Electric  Fireless,  you  can 
use  the  smaller  or  the  larger  cylinder  sections  alone  or 
the  two  in  combination.  ALWAYS  USE  THE  STOVE 
WITH  THE  OVEN  JUST  LARGE  ENOUGH  TO  ENABLE 
YOU  TO  DO  YOUR  COOKING,  AS  IT  REQUIRES 
MORE  CURRENT  TO  HEAT  A  LARGE  OVEN  THAN 
A  SMALL  ONE. 

Time  required  to  start  the  food  cooking  depends  on 
the  quantity  of  food  to  be  cooked  and  the  size  of  the 
oven;  the  usual  time  is  from  fifteen  minutes  to  half  hour. 
After  the  food  begins  to  cook,  then  the  current  may  be 
disconnected,  and  the  stove  will  finish  the  cooking  as  a 
FIRELESS  COOKER. 

When  baking  in  the  Duplex  Electric,  use  the  smaller 
cylinder  section,  turn  the  current  on  ten  minutes  in  order 
to  get  oven  hot;  then  place  pan  with  article  to  be  baked 
in  baking  rack. 

A  hot  disk  may  be  placed  on  top  of  the  baking  rack 
or  cooking  vessel  to  assist  in  baking  and  cooking. 

The  stove  base  when  used  alone  (separate  from  stove 
sections),  makes  an  ideal  hot  plate  for  boiling,  frying 
and  toasting. 


12 


jHeate 


'^-^-^ 


The  Duplex  way   of  cookings  meat  makes  it   more  tender,   more 
healthful  and  more  palatable. 

The  cheaper  cuts  cooked  in  the  Duplex  will  be  as  nice  to  eat 
as  more  expensive  meat  cooked  in  the  old  way. 

TO  PREPARE  A  MOST  DELICIOUS  BEEF  ROAST 

Heat  the  two  roasting  disks  over  the  fire  15  to  20  min- 
utes, the  length  of  time  depending  on  the  size  and  in- 
tensity of  the  flame. 

In  order  to  determine  if  the  disks  are  sufficiently  hot, 
test  them  by  touching  with  a  folded  tissue  paper,  or  drop 
pinch  of  flour  on  disk  and  if  the  paper  or  flour  browns 
at  once,  they  are  hot  enough  for  any  purpose. 

There  are  no  stringent  rules  for  placing  roasts  in 
Duplex. 

One  person  will  roast  meat  without  preheating  it, 
which  is  accomplished  by  having  the  disks  very  hot. 
Place  one  disk  in  bottom  of  well  on  which  cooking  vessel 
(containing  the  roast)  rests;  the  other  hot  disk  is  sus- 
pended inside  the  cooking  vessel  (above  the  roast)  by 
the  hook  attached  to  the  cover  of  vessel. 

Another  person  may  prefer  to  preheat  the  roast  by 
placing  the  vessel  with  roast  on  the  disk  when  heating 
it  and  sear  the  roast  with  butter  or  suet  before  placing 
disks  and  roast  in  the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove. 

Some  other  person  may  wish  to  sear  the  roast  in  a 
skillet  and  then  put  in  the  Duplex  cooking  vessel  and 

13 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

pour  the  butter  left  in  the  skillet  over  the  roast,  then 
place  vessel  in  the  Duplex  with  the  hot  disks  as  directed. 

Whatever  method  is  used,  the  roast  should  be  salted 
and  seasoned  to  taste,  before  cooking  in  the  Duplex. 

Never  use  any  water,  in  the  roasting  of  beef.  The 
juices  confined  in  vessel  may  be  diluted  and  thickened 
for  gravy. 

The  average  time  required  for  roasting,  well  done, 
is  30  minutes  to  a  pound. 

If  medium,  20  minutes.  If  rare  roast  is  desired,  15 
minutes  to  the  pound,  with  the  disks  heated  very  hot  as 
test  given. 

In  each  case,  the  roast  will  be  so  much  superior  in 
flavor  to  one  cooked  by  old  methods,  that  there  is  no 
comparison  in  quality  and  comparatively  no  shrinkage. 
If  accustomed  to  buying  expensive  roasts,  try  an  inex- 
pensive one  and  one-fourth  less  in  weight — as  for  in- 
stance, instead  of  a  four-pound  roast,  get  a  three-pound, 
and  you  will  find  when  cooked  in  the  Duplex,  a  roast  of 
quality  and  quantity  with  no  shrinkage. 

ROAST  BEEF  WITH  POTATOES 

Follow  same  general  directions  and  place  potatoes 
around  roast,  when  ready  to  put  the  roast  in  the  Du- 
plex.   They  will  brown  and  not  be  over-cooked. 

ROAST  VEAL 

Follow  directions  for  Roast  Beef.  Time  required  same 
as  medium  roast  beef,  20  minutes  to  the  pound.  Veal, 
which  admits  of  a  pocket,  for  dressing,  makes  an  excel- 
lent dinner. 


14 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

ROAST  LAMB 

Follow  directions  for  Roast  Beef.  An  assortment  of 
sweet  and  Irish  potatoes,  a  carrot  and  a  little  parsley, 
improves  a  lamb  roast,  as  well  as  seasons  the  potatoes. 
These  should  be  placed  around  leg  of  lamb.    No  water. 

ROAST  PORK 

Follow  directions  for  Roast  Beef.  If  loin  roast,  insist 
on  some  extra  fat,  so  as  to  have  the  gravy  rich.  Few 
tablespoons  of  water  also,  as  pork  is  drier  than  beef.  A 
dressing  placed  around  the  pork  roast  will  be  found 
most  excellent.  Pork  requires  about  30  minutes  to  the 
pound. 

POT  ROAST 

Place  pot  roast  in  cooking  vessel  with  two  slices  fat 
salt  pork;  sear  the  same  as  for  Beef  Roast.  Add  one- 
half  onion,  celery,  peppercorns,  etc.  (vegetables  must  be 
cut  fine.)  Put  cover  on  and  cook  in  Duplex  for  three 
hours.    Thicken  gravy  and  serve. 

The  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  make  excellent  pot  roasts. 
Add  vegetables  desired.  Use  as  mucii  water  as  you  need 
for  gravy.  Be  sure  and  sear  well,  for  pot  roast.  It  can 
be  done  in  the  roasting  vessel.    Use  both  hot  disks. 

BOILED  BEEF 

Wash  meat  with  cold  water,  place  in  cooking  vessel 
and  half  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil  for  15  minutes 
with  cover  fastened  tight,  then  without  removing  cover, 
transfer  to  the  Duplex  Stove,  using  one  hot  stone.  Salt 
to  taste  and  serve. 

Potatoes  placed  in  a  wire  basket  and  hung  from  the 
hook,  on  the  cover  of  the  vessel,  will  be  mealy  and  nicely 
seasoned.  15 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 
BOILED  TONGUE 

Place  tongue  in  water  two  or  three  hours  before 
cooking.  F*ut  in  kettle,  cover  with  water  and  bring  to 
boiling  point,  and  salt  well.  If  desired  for  pickling, 
make  solution  of  three  parts  vinegar  and  one  part  water. 
Spice  to  taste  and  let  set  for  24  hours.  Boil  30  minutes, 
then  place  in  the  Duplex  with  one  hot  stone  for  48  hours. 
If  wanted  for  immediate  use,  remove  skin  and  set  aside 
to  cool. 

BOILED  HAM 

Soak  over  night  if  necessary.  Place  in  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  boil  one-half  hour.  Remove  to 
Duplex  for  four  to  six  hours,  using  one  hot  disk.  If  ham 
is  to  be  slightly  baked,  do  not  boil  so  well  done.  Pare 
and  stick  cloves  and  cinnamon  bark  into  it  and  place 
hot  disks  over  and  under  as  for  Roast  Beef.  Let  balce 
for  40  minutes.  Ham  boiled  or  baked  in  the  Duplex 
will  not  shrink  10  per  cent,  but  in  an  open  boiler  there 
will  be  a  shrinkage  of  25  per  cent. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  LAMB 

Wipe  meat,  place  in  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  a  small  quantity  of  salt,  boil  10  minutes. 
Then  place  in  Duplex  Stove  without  lifting  cover  and 
cook  for  three  hours,  using  one  hot  disk.  An  onion  or 
red  pepper  adds  to  flavor  of  this  dish. 

BRAISED  VEAL  CHOPS  OR  CUTLETS 

Dip  in  egg,  then  in  flour;  fry  brown  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter;  pour  one-half  cupful  of  boiling 
water  over  the  meat  and  cook  over  fire  five  minutes. 
Remove  to  Duplex  Stove  and  cook  for  one  hour,  using 
two  hot  disks.  16 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

IRISH  STEW 

Rub  two  pounds  of  mutton  breast  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cut  up  into  small  pieces.  Brown  in  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  add  two  sliced  onions  and  allow  to 
cook  until  the  onions  are  yellow.  Add  two  cups  of  po- 
tatoes cut  into  cubes,  two  cups  green  peas,  three  cups 
of  boiling  water;  season  and  cook  ten  minutes  over  the 
fire.  Remove  to  Duplex  Stove  and  cook  for  one  hour, 
using  one  hot  disk. 

VEAL  LOAF  No.  1 

3  pounds  raw  veal. 

V4  pound  salt  pork. 

]1  beaten  eggs. 

3  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  parsley. 

1  cup  rolled  crackers. 

Chop  together  the  veal  and  pork  very  fine;  add  the 
other  ingredients  and  knead  like  bread.  Press  in  a 
buttered  dish  and  bake  in  the  Duplex  two  hours,  using 
two  hot  disks.  A  shallow  pan  used  as  the  cake  rack  is 
used,  between  two  hot  disks,  may  be  useful. 

BREADED  VEAL 

Select  loin  chops,  or  cutlets,  cut  moderately  thick.  If 
cutlets,  cut  into  pieces  convenient  for  serving. 

Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  bread  crumbs.  Brown  quickly  on  both  sides  in  skillet 
with  hot  lard  and  butter.  Place  in  as  small  a  vessel  as 
will  hold  the  meat. 

Add  a  little  hot  water,  clamp  lid  on  the  vessel,  place 

17 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

in  the  Duplex  with  two  hot  stones,  one  under,  and  the 
other  directly  on  the  vessel. 

Leave  in  stove  one  hour  for  about  five  chops — longer 
lime  will  be  required  for  greater  quantity  of  meat. 

Save  grease  in  skillet,  with  which  to  make  gravy, 
with  the  juice  from  meat  which  is  left  in  the  cooking 
vessel. 

VEAL  WITH  TOMATOES 

Cut  into  pieces.  Rub  with  salt  and  pepper.  Sear 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  in  roasting  vessel. 
(The  vessel  will  heat  sufficiently  on  top  of  disk).  Add 
two  small  onions  and  four  tomatoes  and  half  a  mango, 
cut  fine.  When  done  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
and  a  half-cup  sour  cream  and  thicken  as  for  gravy. 


FLANK  STEAK  WITH  TOMATOES 

Medium  size  flank  steak. 

Medium  size  onion. 

1  pint  tomatoes. 

%,  teaspoonful  cloves. 

%  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Place  in  Duplex  vessel  with  lid.  Cook  three  hours 
between  the  hot  disks. 

Since  this  steak  will  probably  cover  the  bottom  of 
vessel  twice,  either  sear  both  sides  in  the  vessel,  or  in 
skillet,  before  adding  tomatoes  and  other  ingredients, 
then  fold  in  half,  with  all  ingredients  in  between.  Very 
little  heat  is  needed  in  radiators,  when  seared  as  direct- 
ed. You  will  find  a  rich,  juicy,  tender  steak.  Sear  with 
"CRISCO,"  a  purely  vegetable  compound. 

18 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 


SMOTHERED  STEAK 

Follow  directions  for  flank  steak,  except  use  onions 
instead  of  tomatoes. 


VEAL  LOAF  No.  2 

2  pounds  veal. 

V2  pound  salt  pork. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  rolled  crackers. 

Tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

Nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Proceed  as  in  Veal  Loaf  No.  1. 

The  spices  may  be  omitted  if  desired,  or  whole  hard 
boiled  eggs  added.  When  served  the  eggs  add  very 
much  to  taste  and  appearance,  especially  when  sliced 
through. 

MEAT  LOAF 

1%  pounds  chopped  meat. 
7  crackers  rolled  fine. 
1  egg. 

Lump  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  tablespoonful  of 
"CRISCO." 

1  cup  cold  water  or  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  scant. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepi^er. 

3  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Thoroughly  mix,  roll  in  paper  and  bake  in  Duplex 
one  and  one-half  hours,  using  both  hot  stones. 

19 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 
BEEF  LOAF 

2  pounds  chopped  steak. 

Vi  pound  suet, 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  soaked  bread  crumbs. 

1  onion,  chopped, 

Vi  cup  sweet  milk. 

\y2.  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

y^  teaspoonful  pepper. 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  Duplex  two  hours,  using  both 
hot  disks. 

Inexpensive  meat,  chopped  fine,  makes  excellent  loaf. 
A  food  chopper  with  knives,  soon  pays  for  itself  in  this 
capacity. 

VEAL  STEW 

2^  pounds  breast  of  veal. 

1  dozen  potatoes. 

1  pint  milk. 

1  spoonful  butter. 

Place  the  meat  in  Duplex  cooking  vessel,  add  enough 
cold  water  to  half  cover.  Boil  over  fire  for  10  minutes. 
After  cooking  in  the  Duplex  two  hours,  using  one  hot 
disk,  add  potatoes,  milk  and  enough  flour  to  thicken, 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  place  in  the  Duplex  stove 
without  reheating  stone  and  allow  to  cook  one  hour. 

FILET  ROAST 

Rub  the  meat  on  all  sides  with  salt  and  pepper.  Set 
aside  long  enough  for  the  meat  to  absorb  the  seasoning. 
Heat  a  good  size  lump  of  butter  in  skillet  and  brown  the 
tneat  in  it  on  all  sides.  Cook  in  Duplex  from  two  to 
three  hours,  using  both  hot  stones. 

The  roasting  vessel  can  be  used  instead  of  skillet  if 
over  a  moderately  hot  fire.  Potatoes  may  be  cooked  in 
the  same  vessel  with  roast. 

20 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

BOILED  DINNER 

Cover  corned  beef  with  cold  water.  Let  come  to  the 
boiling  point,  skim  and  simmer  30  minutes.  Add  de- 
sired vegetables  and  simmer  five  minutes.  Cook  in  Du- 
plex three  to  four  hours,  using  one  hot  stone. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON 

Place  mutton  in  kettle  and  half  cover  with  boiling 
water.  Simmer  for  thirty  minutes  and  remove  to  Duplex 
with  one  hot  stone  and  leave  for  three  hours.  A  few 
cloves  added  improves  flavor. 

ROAST  MUTTON 

Wipe  with  damp  cloth  and  rub  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  herbs,  bay  leaf,  or  parsley.  If  roast  is  over  five 
pounds,  heat  in  vessel  on  top  of  heating  radiator,  and 
then  put  in  the  Duplex,  using  two  hot  disks  same  as  for 
Roast  Beef.  Five  pounds  require  about  three  hours. 
Add  a  half  measuring  cup  of  water. 


21 


ROAST   CHICKEN 

Rub  the  inside  and  outside  of  the  chicken  with  salt, 
and  butter,  and  let  it  stand  for  one  hour  or  longer  (over 
night  if  you  have  time).  Make  a  dressing  of  dry  bread 
crumbs  (never  new  bread,  if  it  can  be  avoided),  butter 
and  as  much  as  one  egg  to  one  chicken,  a  few  slices  of 
onions  chopped  fine,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sage.  Mix 
and  stuff  the  fowl,  and  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water, 
using  two  hot  disks  and  cook  from  one  to  three  hours. 

Dressing  may  be  placed  around  chicken,  which  will 
brown  the  same  as  chicken.  An  old  chicken  may  be 
cooked  tender  and  delicious  in  the  Duplex.  A  very  old 
fowl  should  be  steamed  with  a  small  amount  of  water 
in  vessel  and  placed  on  one  stone  for  an  hour,  before 
putting  in  to  roast, 

STEWED  CHICKEN  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

Cut  chicken  in  pieces,  place  in  kettle  and  cover  with 
boiling  water.  Season  and  boil  15  minutes.  Remove  to 
the  Duplex  for  three  to  four  hours,  using  one  heating 
disk.  When  done,  a  cup  of  milk  thickened  with  flour 
may  be  added. 

If  chicken  is  not  sufficiently  fat,  add  butter.  If  dump- 
lings are  to  be  added,  the  contents  of  vessel  must  be  at 
a  boiling  point  when  dumplings  or  noodles  are  added. 

FRICASSEE  CHICKEN 

Cut  for  serving.  Slightly  cover  with  boiling  water, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  slices  of  an  onion  if  liked. 
Boil  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes.    Place  cover  on  the 

22 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

kettle  and  remove  to  the  Duplex  stove.    Cook  with  one 
hot  stone  for  three  hours. 

Remove  chicken,  add  a  half-pint  cream  or  milk  to 
gravy,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  rubbed  smooth- 
ly together  (adding  a  little  of  the  gravy  to  soften  and 
help  mix  them),  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  serve  with  dumplings  or  biscuits. 

CHICKEN  LOAF 

An  old  fowl,  stewed  tender  enough  to  remove  bones, 
may  be  used  for  this  purpose.  Run  through  a  food 
chopper.  To  each  pint  of  meat,  add  one  beaten  egg,  half 
cup  crumbs,  two  small  onions,  salt  and  pepper.  Enough 
of  the  broth  to  hold  together  well.  Bake  for  one  hour, 
between  two  radiators. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Place  hot  fricassee  chicken  and  gravy  in  a  baking 
dish.  Make  a  rich  crust  and  place  on  top  of  chicken. 
Place  in  Duplex  Stove  for  one  hour,  using  both  disks, 
hot  as  for  other  baking. 

(Always  use  flour  test  for  baking  anything). 

PRESSED  CHICKEN 

Follow  directions  for  loaf,  except  add  little  sage,  and 
stock,  salt  and  pepper.  Press  into  mold,  chill  for  three 
hours  before  serving. 

BAKED  CHICKEN  WITH  RICE 

Follow  directions  for  baked  chicken.  Dressing  may 
be  jised  inside  of  chicken.  Rice  around  the  chicken. 
To  one  cup  of  rice,  allow  three  cups  of  water.  Do  not 
cook  rice  first.  Salt  to  taste.  The  chicken  flavors  the 
rice  if  fat.     If  not,  add  butter. 

23 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

ROASTED  TURKEY 

Rub  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  butter,  and  let 
stand  a  few  hours.  Stuff  with  dressing,  as  desired. 
While  disks  are  heating,  have  vessel  containing  turkey 
on  top  getting  heated  through.  A  10-pound  turkey  will 
require  five  hours,  by  heating  disks  30  minutes.  Attach 
hot  disk  to  hook  of  vessel  cover  and  have  vessel  setting 
on  the  other  hot  disk  for  browning.  Use  one  pint  of 
water  in  vessel.  When  turkey  is  cooked  and  removed 
from  vessel,  water  can  be  added  for  gravy. 

FRIED  CHICKEN 

Heat  Duplex  roasting  vessel  on  top  of  disk,  and  put 
in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  "CRISCO."  Arrange  chicken 
same  as  in  skillet.  If  not  sufficient  surface,  make  some 
pieces  stand  perpendicular  around  the  side  of  vessel. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Two  tablespoonfuls  water. 
Suspend  disk  same  as  for  roasting.  A  3-pound  young 
chicken  will  require  two  hours. 

The  chicken  may  be  browned  quickly  in  skillet  and 
placed  in  Duplex  without  the  hot  disks,  and  left  in  Du- 
plex four  hours.  Both  vessel  and  chicken  must  be  hot, 
when  transferred  to  cooker.  Fifteen  minutes  is  time 
enough  to  brown  both  sides. 


24 


^oupsi 


The  value  of  STOod  soup  is  recognized  by  all  good  cooks,  bat 
the  length  of  time  required  for  coolcing  the  old  way  over  the  fire 
makes  it  an  expensive  dish. 

The  Duplex  way  of  preparing  soup  is  simple,  economical  and 
improves  the  quality  of  the  soup,  retaining  all  the  flavor  and 
nutriment  of  the  food. 

STOCK 

4  lbs.  lean  beef  (the  inferior  part  will  make  as  good 
soup  as  expensive  meat.) 

4  quarts  water. 

5  whole  cloves. 
10  pepper  corns. 
2  parsley  leaves. 

1  small  onion,  chopped  fine. 

Wash  meat  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Place  all  the  in- 
gredients in  vessel  and  boil  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes. 
Fasten  on  cover  and  transfer  to  the  Duplex  Fireless 
Stove,  using  one  hot  disk  in  bottom  of  well.  After  cook- 
ing three  or  four  hours,  strain,  allow  to  cool  and  remove 
all  particles  of  fat.  This  stock  should  be  kept  in  a  cool 
place.  It  can  be  used  for  making  different  kinds  of  soup. 
Do  not  strain,  unless  a  clear  soup  is  desired.  It  lessens 
the  nourishing  properties  of  the  stock  by  so  doing. 

25 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY  SOUP 

Use  the  liquor  in  which  a  chicken  has  been  boiled. 
Add  the  carcass  (break  in  small  pieces)  and  any  meat, 
dressmg  or  gravy  that  is  left.  Put  in  a  little  celery,  four 
or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  rice.  Add  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  all  the  ingredients  and  boil  five  minutes.  Cook 
in  Duplex  three  hours,  using  one  hot  disk.  Season  and 
serve.    Parsley  is  preferable  to  season  with. 

CREAM  OF  CHICKEN 

2  quarts  chicken  soup. 
1  cup  rich  cream. 

Bring  soup  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  cream  (first 
thickened  with  a  little  flour).  Boil  for  15  minutes.  Sea- 
son to  taste  and  serve.  An  old  fowl  makes  excellent 
soup.    The  meat  may  be  used  for  chicken  salad. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Small  soup  bone  or  1  quart  stock. 
Small  bunch  celery. 
Small  onion. 

1  carrot. 

3  parsley  leaves  or  more. 
3  bay  leaves. 

y^  cup  rice. 

2  potatoes. 

Cover  bone  with  cold  water,  add  vegetables  (first 
chopped  fine),  boil  ten  miniltes  and  then  cook  in  the 
Duplex  for  three  hours,  using  one  hot  disk.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  etc.,  and  serve  without  straining. 

The  combination  of  any  vegetables  makes  palatable 
nourishing  food. 

2^ 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

NOTE:  When  vegetables  such  as  carrots,  celery, 
parsley  and  cauliflower  are  in  season  and  plentiful,  they 
may  be  chopped  and  canned  together,  ready  for  soup, 
during  out-of- vegetable  season.  (See  directions  on  can- 
ning.) 

POTATO  SOUP 

Small  piece  of  salt  pork. 
Potatoes,  chopped  fine. 

Cover  with  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point  and  boil  five  minutes.  Cook  in  the  Duplex  Stove 
two  hours.  Thicken  with  flour  and  milk  stirred  together 
to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  serve. 

Three-fourths  milk  improves  it  greatly.  Milk  can  be 
added  when  ready  to  serve,  as  boiling  destroys  the  life 
of  milk.     Bring  to  simmering  point  and  serve. 


BEAN  SOUP 

Wash  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  one  quart 
of  white  beans.  In  the  morning  drain  and  put  them  on 
to  boil  in  clear  cold  water,  and  when  they  come  to  the 
boiling  point,  pour  the  water  off;  repeat  this,  then  place 
them  in  the  cooking  vessel  with  three  pints  of  water; 
add  a  small  piece  of  fat  meat,  salt  pork  or  pickled  pork, 
one  teaspoonful  salt.  Boil  for  five  minutes  and  transfer 
to  the  Duplex  without  removing  the  cover  and  cook  four 
hours  with  one  hot  disk  or  six  hours  without  the  hot 
disk. 

Press  the  beans  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Add 
an  onion,  chopped  fine,  and  some  milk,  if  desired.  Bring 
to  simmering  point,  add  powdered  crackers  to  thicken, 
and  serve. 

27 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK   BOOK 

MUTTON  OR  BEEF  SOUP 

Two  pounds  meat  (wash  m  cold  water.) 

Use  any  vegetables  you  desire;   sliced  carrots  and 

potatoes,  with  a  few  slices  of  onion  are  very  good. 

Chop  all  the  ingredients  fine,  place  in  vessel  with  two 

quarts  of  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  skim  and 

cook  in  the  Duplex  three  hours,  using  one  hot  disk. 

Season  and  serve. 

MUTTON  OR  BEEF  BROTH  FOR  THE  SICK 

Prepare  same  as  Mutton  or  Beef  Soup,  leaving  out  all 
vegetables. 

A  half-cup  cereal  to  each  quart  gives  nourishment 
and  body  to  soup,  and  is  easily  digested,  if  sterilized  by 
simmering  for  three  or  four  hours.    Use  one  disk. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY 

3  cups  celery  (cut  in  small  pieces.) 

4  cups  boiling  water. 

1  slice  onion. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
2  cups  milk. 

Boil  the  celery  in  the  water  five  minutes,  transfer  to 
the  Duplex  and  cook  two  hours.  Scald  onion  in  milk, 
remove  onion,  put  celery  through  sieve,  add  to  milk. 
Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  add  to  soup,  season  to 
taste  and  serve  hot. 


28 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

TOMATO  SOUP 

Three  quarts  soup  stock,  one  can  tomatoes  (strained). 

Bring  to  boiling  point,  add  the  tomatoes  and  boil  five 
minutes.  Cook  two  hours  in  the  Duplex,  using  one  hot 
disk.    Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  serve. 

SPANISH  BEAN  SOUP 

Follow  directions  for  bean  soup,  add  pint  of  toma- 
toes.   Season  with  onion  and  red  pepper. 

RICE  SOUP 

To  one  quart  of  any  broth  or  stock,  add  cup  of  rice, 
a  little  celery,  onion  and  red  pepper.  Let  cook  in  the 
Duplex  two  hours. 

CONSOMME 

2  pounds  lean  beef. 
2  pounds  veal. 
1  onion. 

1  carrot. 
Stalk  celery. 

2  teaspoonfuls  butter. 
2  quarts  water. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  put  the  butter  in  the 
cooking  vessel  and  let  it  brown,  add  to  it  the  meat  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  meat  is  brown,  add  the  water, 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  cook  in  Duplex  three  hours, 
using  one  hot  disk.  Add  vegetables  (cut  in  small  pieces), 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  cook  in  Duplex  two  hours 
longer  without  hot  disk.  Strain  and  let  cool.  When  cold 
remove  the  fat  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

29 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

VEGETABLE  OYSTER,  OR  SALSIFY  SOUP 

Cut  salsify  into  small  pieces.  Add  just  enough  water 
to  cover.  Remove  to  Duplex  at  boiling  point  and  let  re- 
main for  three  hours.  Add  milk,  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
This  is  a  remarkable  imitation  of  oyster  soup. 


30 


"Vegetables; 


To  cook  vegetables  in  the  Duplex,  poar  enough  boiling  water 
over  the  vegetables  to  make  steam.  Very  little  water  is  necessary 
on  any  summer  vegetables,  as  green  beans,  cabbage,  cauliflower, 
carrots,  etc.  If  the  gallon  vessel  were  filled  with  green  beans,  one- 
half  pint  of  water  is  plenty  when  hot  disk  is  used.  When  any 
dry  vegetable,  like  beans,  is  used,  they  should  be  soaked  over  night 
in  hot  water,  and  covered  with  water,  when  placed  in  cooker. 
Never  use  soda  on  dry  beans  in  the  Duplex,  as  it  is  not  necessary 
Then  transfer  the  vessel  to  the  Duplex  Stove,  using  one  hot  disk; 
or  the  vegetables  may  be  covered  with  water  and  placed  over  the 
fire  long  enough  to  boil  five  or  ten  minutes,  then  without  lifting 
the  cover  transfer  to  the  Duplex  Stove. 

Vegetables  usually  require  a  long  time  to  cook,  either  over  the 
fire  or  in  the  Duplex — the  difiference  being,  that  when  cooked  over 
the  fire  a  portion  of  the  flavor,  seasoning  and  nutritious  substance 
is  evaporated.  When  cooked  in  the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove,  all  the 
flavor  and  nutritious  qualities  are  retained,  making  food  more 
palatable  and  more  healthful. 

The  Duplex  way  of  cooking,  not  only  cooks  vegetables  better, 
but  much  cheaper  than  the  old  way,  since  there  is  no  consumption 
of  fuel  when  cooking  in  the  Duplex  Stove. 


STRING  BEANS 

String  and  break  two  quarts  of  beans  into  small 
pieces  of  about  one-half  inch  (if  beans  are  not  fresh, 
soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  longer),  boil  in  plenty 
of  water  about  15  minutes,  drain  and  put  on  again  in 
about  one-half  quart  of  boiling  water,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  butter.    Boil  for  five  minutes  over  the 

31 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

fire  and  then  transfer  the  kettle  (without  lifting  the 
cover)  to  the  Duplex  and  cook  two  hours  or  more  on  one 
hot  disk.  Fifteen  minutes  is  time  enough  for  heating 
the  disk. 

NOTE:  They  may  be  seasoned  with  salt  pork  or 
bacon.  Potatoes  placed  on  top  of  beans  will  cook  nicely. 
They  do  not  need  to  be  immersed  in  the  water  as  they 
cook  by  steam.  If  too  much  water  in  beans  when  fin- 
ished, use  less  next  time,  as  they  cannot  burn, 

FRESH  LIMA  BEANS 

Follow  directions  for  String  Beans.  Fresh,  young 
lima  beans  do  not  need  parboiling.  Very  little  water. 
A  quart  of  beans  needs  one-fourth  quart  of  water  or  less. 
Put  all  seasoning  in  at  first,  except  cream. 

WAX  BEANS 

Follow  directions  for  String  Beans.  These  are  im- 
proved by  milk  seasoning,  and  small  amount  of  red  pep- 
per. 

BAKED  BEANS 

Wash  one  quart  of  beans  and  soak  in  cold  w^ater  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  salt  and  about  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mo- 
lasses. Boil  five  minutes  over  the  fire.  Cook  in  Duplex 
Stove  for  three  hours,  using  one  hot  disk.  Add  one-half 
pound  pork,  bake  in  oven  one-half  hour. 

They  may  be  baked  in  Duplex  in  one  of  the  small 
vessels  (8  in.  in  diameter)  by  removing  cover  of  same 
and  resting  a  very  hot  disk  on  top,  instead  of  cover. 
Only  one  disk  is  necessary  to  brown  them  nicely  in  two 
hours.  Use  brown  sugar  and  slice  of  pork  on  top,  when 
this  method  is  used. 

32 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  ROOK 

BEETS 

Wash  thoroughly  taking  care  not  to  break  oflf  the 
little  roots  or  break  the  skin.  Cover  with  boiling,  salted 
water.  Boil  ten  minutes.  If  young  beets,  cook  in  Duplex 
from  two  to  three  hours;  if  old,  cook  four  to  five  hours, 
using  one  hot  disk.  When  done,  drop  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  and  slip  off  the  skins.     Serve  as  desired. 

DRY  RED  KIDNEY  BEANS 

Soak  over  night  in  hot  water.  Pour  off  and  add  salt 
and  water  to  cover  well,  as  this  water  is  drained  off, 
after  cooking  three  hours  on  one  hot  disk.  These  can 
be  used  for  salad,  cream  beans,  or  Hungarian  Goulash. 

PEAS 

Boil  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water.  Place  in  Duplex 
Stove  and  cook  for  one  hour,  using  one  hot  stone.  Sea- 
son and  add  milk  and  butter  if  desired;  thicken  with 
flour. 

ASPARAGUS 

Wash,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  salt,  boil  five 
minutes.  Cook  in  Duplex  Stove  one  hour,  using  one  hot 
disk.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  mayonnaise  dressing,  or 
pour  melted  butter  over  it. 

Well  browned  toast  made  from  bread  not  fresh, 
plenty  of  milk  and  butter  added  to  the  asparagus,  makes 
a  very  palatable  dish.  Green  asparagus  is  much  better 
flavor  and  more  tender,  than  white. 

33 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

BOILED  POTATOES 

Pare,  cover  with  boiling  water,  salt,  boil  five  minutes. 
Drain  all  water  off  and  place  vessel  on  top  of  the  other 
vegetable  vessel  filled  with  boiling  water.  In  this  way 
they  will  be  dry,  \^hite  and  mealy,  even  if  left  in  Duplex 
for  hours. 

ONIONS 

Cover  with  boiling  water.  Salt  and  boil  three  min- 
utes. Cook  in  Duplex  two  hours  or  longer,  using  one 
hot  disk.  Drain,  cover  with  hot  milk,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  thicken  with  flour. 

ONIONS  WITH  TOMATOES 

Equal  parts  of  each.  Slice  onions.  Add  salt,  butter 
and  sugar.  Bring  to  a  boiling  point  and  cook  for  two 
hours  in  the  Duplex. 

CABBAGE 

Trim  a  head  of  cabbage  and  place  in  cold  water  and 
let  remain  several  hours  before  cooking,  then  drain  and 
put  in  kettle  with  enough  boiling  salt  water  to  form 
steam  to  cook.  Usually  a  measuring  cupful  is  plenty, 
as  only  enough  is  required  for  the  vegetable  to  absorb. 
Boil  five  minutes.  Cook  in  the  Duplex  one  hour,  using 
one  hot  disk. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Remove  the  outer  leaves,  and  cook  it  whole,  follow- 
ing directions  for  cabbage.    Leave  as  much  of  stem  on 

34 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

flower  as  possible,  as  that  has  same  flavor  as  flower, 
and  will  cook  just  as  tender.  Season  with  milk  and 
butter. 

CORN  ON  COB 

Put  the  well-cleaned  ears  in  salted  boiling  water, 
cook  one  hour  in  the  Duplex,  using  one  hot  disk.  Corn 
cooked  in  this  way  is  a  wholesome  dish. 

OYSTER  PLANT 

Scrape,  slice  and  cover  with  boiling  salt  water,  boil 
five  minutes.  Cook  in  Duplex  three  hours,  using  one 
hot  disk.    Drain  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 


CREAMED  CABBAGE 

Chop  fine,  as  for  slaw.  Add  salt  and  a  measuring 
cupful  of  water.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  place  in  Duplex 
for  two  or  more  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  milk 
and  butter  and  little  sugar. 


ESCALLOPED  CORN 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  a  layer  of  canned  corn  in 
bottom,  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Distribute 
small  lumps  of  butter  over  all,  then  put  in  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  a  layer  of  corn  and  so  on  until  the  de- 
sired quantity  is  obtained.  Cover  with  hot  milk.  Heat 
over  fire  five  minutes  and  bake  in  Duplex  Stove  one 
hour,  using  both  hot  disks. 

The  shallow  two-quart  vessel  in  the  No.  55  Duplex  is 

35 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

fine  for  this  purpose.  Place  hot  disk  on  top  of  vessel 
instead  of  using  the  regular  cover.  This  arrangement 
will  brown  top  in  an  hour,  while  disk  is  underneath 
cooker, 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES 

Follow  directions  for  Escalloped  Corn,  using  slices 
of  tomatoes  in  place  of  the  corn. 


ESCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Follow  directions  for  Escalloped  Corn,  using  slices  of 
potatoes  in  place  of  the  corn.  A  few  slices  of  onions  dis- 
tributed through  the  dish  add  much  to  the  flavor.  Sprin- 
kle bread  crumbs  on  top,  depth  of  half  inch.  Do  not  use 
too  much  liquid,  either  water  or  milk,  as  that  hinders 
the  browning  of  surface.  Place  hot  disk  on  top  of  eight- 
inch  vessel,  not  using  the  cover  at  all.  Bake  one  hour  or 
longer,  if  desired,  using  both  hot  disks. 


MACARONI 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  five  ounces  of 
macaroni;  let  stand  half  an  hour,  drain  and  transfer  to 
the  four-quart  Duplex  kettle.  Cover  with  boiling  milk 
and  salt  and  boil  over  fire  five  minutes.  Cook  in  Duplex, 
one  hour,  using  one  hot  disk. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATOES 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  a  layer  of  tomatoes  in  bot- 
tom, then  a  layer  of  macaroni  (previously  cooked  in  the 
Duplex).    Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.    Grate  cheese 

96 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

over  top  and  distribute  small  lumps  of  butter  over  all, 
then  another  layer  of  macaroni  and  tomatoes  and  so  on, 
using  cracker  crumbs  for  the  top  layer.  Heat  over  fire 
five  minutes.  Cook  one  hour  in  the  Duplex,  using  both 
hot  disks. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATOES 

Have  salted  water  boiling  in  vessel.  Break  up  spa- 
ghetti and  throw  in  quantity  desired.  Cook  five  minutes. 
Add  butter  and  tomatoes  and  place  in  Duplex.  This  ves- 
sel does  not  necessarily  have  to  set  directly  on  disk.  It 
may  be  above  another  vessel  containing  food. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

Roll  one  pound  of  crackers  for  one  quart  of  oysters. 
Put  a  layer  of  crackers  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  next  a 
layer  of  oysters,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Finish 
with  a  layer  of  crackers  and  butter,  then  pour  on  the 
juice  of  the  oysters  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Bake  in  the 
Duplex  one  hour,  using  both  hot  disks. 


37 


Cereals! 


A  cerial  when  properly  prepared  makes  one  of  the  most  nu- 
tritious and  healthful  dishes  we  eat,  but  when  not  properly  cooked 
it   is  almost   indigestible. 

All  cereals  should  have  from  three  to  five  hours  constant  cook- 
ing (longer  will  not  hurt,  as  they  cannot  be  over-cooked). 

The  Duplex  Fireless  Stove  cooks  thoroughly  and  cheaply,  mak- 
ing it  the  ideal  way  to  prepare  such  articles  of  food  as  require  a 
long  time  to  cook. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

When  you  do  not  have  the  regular  cereal  cooker,  fill 
jone  of  the  vessels  with  boiling  water,  and  place  it  under 
the  vessel  containing  the  cereal.  Have  cover  on  vessel 
of  boiling  water  the  same  as  if  it  contained  food.  It  is 
not  necessary  to  use  the  hot  disk  when  using  the  hot 
water.  If  you  use  the  disk  do  not  heat  it  over  ten  min- 
utes. Have  the  water  boiling  for  cereals.  Well  salted 
and  little  butter  improves.  Never  fasten  both  clamps 
of  vessel  down  until  ready  to  put  into  cooker.  By  using 
the  one  vessel  filled  with  boiling  water,  the  cereal  will 
be  hot  enough  to  serve  without  reheating.  It  should 
cook  over  night, 

OATMEAL 

Add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  four  cups  of 
boiling  water.  Keep  the  water  at  boiling  temperature 
and  add  one  cup  of  oatmeal  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring 
constantly.    Fasten  cover  on  and  boil  over  fire  four  or 

38 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

five  minutes,  then  without  removing  the  cover,  place  in 
Duplex  and  cook  for  four  or  five  hours  or  longer.  It 
is  a  good  plan  to  let  it  cook  all  night  in  the  Duplex  and 
if  not  hot  enough  to  eat  next  morning,  place  on  the  fire 
for  a  few  minutes. 

If  you  do  not  have  a  Duplex  Cereal  Cooker  you  can 
cook  the  oatmeal  in  a  vessel  that  is  small  enough  to  go 
inside  of  one  of  the  Duplex  cooking  vessels.  The  larger 
vessel  should  be  about  one-third  full  of  boiling  water. 
Or  you  can  set  the  vessel  of  hot  oatmeal  in  the  Duplex 
on  top  of  a  closed  vessel  containing  boiling  water.  The 
cereal  will  cook  perfectly,  even  if  put  in  the  Duplex 
alone,  but  there  is  not  sufficient  volume  to  keep  hot 
throughout  the  night  without  the  hot  water, 

MUSH 

1  part  corn  meal. 
3y2  parts  boiling  water. 

Follow  directions  for  oatmeal,  cook  four  hours  or 
longer. 

BOILED  RICE 

1  cup  rice  (washed). 
3  cups  boiling  water. 
1/2  teaspoonful  salt. 

Follow  directions  for  Oatmeal,  cook  two  hours  or 
longer. 

QUAKER  OATS 

1  cupful  Quaker  Oats. 
iy-2,  cupfuls  boiling  water. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Follow  directions  for  oatmeal,  cook  four  hours  or 
longer. 

39 


THE  DUPLEX   COOK  BOOK 

RICE   WITH   RAISINS 

Cook  rice  as  for  Boiled  Rice,  adding  one  cupful  of 
seeded  raisins  just  before  placing  in  Duplex. 

CREAM  OF  WHEAT 

1  cup  Cream  of  Wheat. 
5  cups  boiling  water. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Follow  directions  for  Oatmeal,  cook  four  hours  or 
longer. 

Any  cereal  may  be  cooked  in  a  similar  way. 


40 


Preab  antr  $ubbmgps( 

Bread  or  paddings  shoald  be  prepared  the  same  as  if  yon 
were  going  to  cook  tliem  the  usual  way. 

All  steamed  bread  or  puddings  should  be  poured  into  greased 
moulds.     Use  butter  or  Crisco. 


FOR  BAKING 

Heat  disks  sufficiently  hot  to  brown  a  pinch  of  flour 
at  once  when  dropped  on  them,  or  to  slightly  brown  a 
fold  of  tissue  paper.  The  large  well  in  the  Duplex  Fire- 
less  Stove  is  an  ideal  place  to  keep  sponge  or  bread  at 
right  temperature  to  aid  rising.  A  disk  just  warm,  fur- 
nishes warmth,  which  is  necessary.  Use  judgment,  if 
disk  needs  to  be  wrapped  with  paper  or  cloth,  so  that 
it  is  not  too  direct  a  heat. 


WHITE  YEAST  SPONGE 

Dissolve  one  cake  of  Fleishman's  yeast  in  warm 
water.  Cook  two  potatoes  well  done.  Mash  thoroughly. 
Add  one-half  cupful  sugar.  Use  quart  of  flour,  adding 
the  above  mixture,  until  you  have  smooth  batter.  If 
rolls  are  to  be  made,  two  eggs  beaten  light  improves. 
Large  tablespoonful  of  Crisco,  rubbed  into  flour,  for 
rolls,  but  not  for  bread.  Add  salt,  when  making  the 
bread,  but  not  in  the  yeast  sponge.    Let  rise  until  twice 

41 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

its  bulk.  If  kept  warm  in  the  Duplex  Fireless  Stove,  two 
hours   is  sufficient  time. 

NOTE:  Buttermilk  may  be  used,  instead  of  potatoes 
and  potato  water,  to  make  up  sponge. 

This  amount  of  sponge  will  make  six  loaves  of  bread, 
or  eight  pans  of  rolls,  if  a  quart  of  luke  warm  water 
is  added  to  sufficient  flour  to  make  nice,  smooth  dough. 
Place  in  large  vessel  to  rise.  A  large  loaf  can  be  baked 
in  the  roasting  vessel,  by  the  same  method  as  roasting 
meats. 

Set  vessel  on  the  hotter  disk  and  other  hot  disk 
should  be  suspended  by  the  hook  attached  to  cover  of 
vessel.  A  loaf  equal  to  four  loaves  will  require  two 
hours  to  bake.  It  will  be  nicely  crusted  and  a  beautiful 
brown  and  delicious  flavor.  Spring  wheat  flour  is  usu- 
ally used  for  bread  stuffs;  however,  a  winter  wheat  or 
hard  wheat  makes  good  bread,  but  use  only  latter  for 
pastry  and  cakes, 

SALT  RISING  BREAD 

1/2  cupful  corn  meal. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1   cupful  warm  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  effect,  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.  This  must  be  kept  warm  over  night.  It  it  is 
not  light  and  fermenting,  do  not  use  it,  as  bread  will  be 
a  failure.  If  raised,  add  enough  flour  and  warm  water 
to  make  a  quart  of  sponge.  Place  in  warm  place  (Du- 
plex well)  for  two  hours.  The  four-quart  Duplex  vessel, 
inside  of  large  well,  containing  warm  water,  is  an  excel- 
lent place.  When  twice  its  bulk,  use  quantity  of  flour 
and  water  you  desire  for  bread  and  put  immediately  into 

42 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

moulds,  greased  on  top  with  Crisco  or  lard,  and  let 
raise.  Same  directions  and  time  for  baking  as  yeast 
bread.  An  ordinary  sized  loaf  will  bake  in  40  minutes, 
but  large  loaf  in  roasting  vessel  will  require  from  one 
and  one-half  to  two  hours. 

STEAMING  IN  THE  DUPLEX 

Place  any  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water  on  top  of  hot 
disk.  On  top  of  pan  rest  the  Duplex  baking  rack,  into 
which  you  have  placed  article  you  wish  to  steam.  Empty 
pound  baking  powder  cans  are  convenient,  or  use  one 
shallow  pan. 

IDEAL  BROWN  BREAD 

3  cupfuls  graham  flour  (salt  to  taste). 
IV2  teaspoonsful  soda. 

1  egg. 

y^  cupful  Orleans  molasses. 

Beat  the  egg  and  mix  with  the  molasses,  stir  in  the 
flour  and  then  add  enough  sour  milk  to  make  it  thin 
enough  to  drop  off  the  spoon.  Stir  all  together  just 
enough  to  mix  well.  Place  in  pan  or  bread  cans.  Steam 
in  Duplex  three  and  a  half  hours.  Place  in  oven  until 
it  becomes  a  light  brown,  or  bake  in  Duplex,  between 
two  hot  disks,  for  one  hour. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

1^/^  cupfuls  graham  flour. 

2  cupfuls  corn  meal. 
y%  cupful  molasses. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 

43 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

IV2  teaspoonfuls  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Stir  all  together  and  steam  in  Duplex  three  hours  and 
a  half  and  brown  in  oven  or  Duplex. 

FRUIT  BREAD 

1  cupful  white  flour. 

31/2  cupfuls  graham  flour. 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  dark  brown  sugar. 
^  cupful  Crisco. 

1  cupful  sweet  milk. 

2  cupfuls  seeded  raisins. 

Mix  together,  not  stiff,  and  bake  in  Duplex  two  hours. 

NUT  BREAD 

Follow  above  recipe,  except  half  quantity  raisins  and 
one  cupful  of  chopped  nuts. 

NOTE:    The  burr  ground  graham  flour  is  best  to  use. 

QUAKER  OATS  BREAD 

2  cupfuls  Quaker  Oats  (or  any  oat  flake). 

4  cupfuls  boiling  water. 

1  cupful  Orleans  molasses. 

2  quarts  flour. 

1  cake  compressed  yeast. 

Large  lump  butter. 

Salt  to  taste. 

Put  molasses,  butter  and  salt  in  boiling  water.  When 
thoroughly  dissolved,  stir  in  oats.  When  cooled  add 
flour  and  yeast,  previously  dissolved  in  tepid   water. 

44 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

Place  in  deep  bowl  and  let  rise  until  twice  its  bulk.  Add 
just  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  form  into  loaves 
and  place  in  greased  bread  pans.  Brush  with  melted 
lard  and  when  light,  bake  about  one  and  one-half  hours, 
using  both  hot  disks.  This  recipe  makes  six  medium- 
sized  loaves. 

RICE  PUDDING 

2  cupfuls  cold  boiled  rice. 

1  cupful  milk. 

1  egg. 

Butter  size  small  egg. 

Salt  to  taste. 

^  cupful  seeded  raisins  (if  liked). 

Steam  in  Duplex  one  hour. 

If  you  desire  it  browned,  remove  cover  of  vessel  and 
place  hot  disk  above  pudding.  Use  the  flour  test  for 
baking.    Bake  one  hour. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

%  cupful  sugar. 
^  cupful  butter. 
1  egg. 

V2  cupful  water. 
11/2  cupfuls  flour, 
iy2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Vi  teaspoonful  extract. 

Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  just  before  placing  in  the 
Duplex.    Bake  one  hour,  using  both  hot  disks. 

STEAMED  PUDDING 

1  cupful  milk. 

1  cupful  molasses. 

45 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

1  cupful  butter. 

31/2  cupf^  Is  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  allspice. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  baking  powder. 

y^,  cupful  seeded  raisins  (if  liked). 

Steam  in  Duplex  three  hours. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING 

W^  cupfuls  graham  flour, 
%  cupful  molasses. 
y^  cupful  butter. 
yi  cupful  sweet  milk. 
1  egg. 

1  even  teaspoonful  soda. 
y^  cupful  raisins. 
l^  cupful  currants. 
Salt  and  spice  to  taste. 

Steam  in  Duplex  Stove  three  hours,  using  both  hot 
disks.     Serve  with  liquid  sauce. 

PLUM  PUDDING  No.  1 

1  quart  bread  crumbs. 

1  cupful  New  Orleans  molasses. 

1  cupful  water  if  crumbs  are  very  dry,  otherwise 

one-half  cupful. 
1  cupful  raisins  and  other  fruit,  if  desired. 
1  teaspoonful  allspice. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
%  teaspoonful  ground  cloves. 
14  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Cream  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  butter  the  size 

46 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

of  an  egg.  Add  molasses,  then  stir  in  one  level  spoonful 
of  soda  and  one  egg.  Butter  molds  and  fill  three-fourths 
full  with  pudding,  then  set  cans  in  Duplex  cooking  ves- 
sel with  water  about  half  way  up  to  the  top  of  cans. 
Boil  over  fire  15  minutes,  thei?  remove  to  Duplex  Stove. 
It  will  be  ready  to  serve  one  hour  later.  Slice  and  serve 
with  hard  sauce. 

PLUM  PUDDING  No.  2 

1  quart  bread  crumbs. 

y2  cupful  molasses. 

1/2  cupful  sugar. 

1  cupful  raisins. 

1  small  piece  citron. 

1  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1/2  teaspoonful  cloves. 

3  eggs. 

1  cupful  sour  milk. 

1/2  cupful  suet  (cut  fine). 

Mix  well  and  pour  in  buttered  molds.  Steam  in  Du- 
plex five  hours.  Serve  with  butter  sauce  or  any  regular 
pudding  sauce. 

MOLASSES  PUDDING 

1  cupful  butter. 
1  cupful  boiling  water. 
1  cupful  molasses. 
3  cupful  s  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
V2  nutmeg. 

1  cupful  seeded  raisins. 

47 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  butter,  add  molasses 
when  butter  is  melted.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  add  the 
soda,  having  dissolved  it  in  hot  water.  Then  stir  in  the 
cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  raisins.  Steam  two  hours  in  the 
Duplex,  using  both  hot  disks. 

ETHYL'S  PUDDING 

y^  cupful  butter. 
Vz  cupful  milk. 
1  egg. 

V2  cupful  molasses. 
114  cupfuls  flour. 
1  cupful  raisins. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
^/2  teaspoonful  salt,  cloves  and  soda. 
Mix  thoroughly   and   steam   in  Duplex   Stove   three 
hours,  using  both  hot  disks.    Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

DUPLEX  PUDDING  SAUCE 

Stir  together  equal  parts  of  butter  and  sugar;  add 
cream  or  milk  to  make  the  right  consistency;  grate  in  a 
small  quantity  of  nutmeg  and  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.  The  beaten  white  of  one  egg  may  be  substituted 
for  the  cream  or  milk. 


BRANDY  SAUCE 

Bring  one  cupful  granulated  sugar  and  two  cupfuls 
of  water  to  boiling  point.  Add  to  this  a  tablespoonful 
of  corn  starch,  first  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Stir  until 
clear  and  just  before  removing  from  the  fire  stir  in  a 
little  brandy. 

48 


Prepare  the  pie  the  same  as  if  you  were  going  to  bake  it  in 
the  ordinary  oven.     Heat  the  two  Duplex  halting  dislis  quite  hot. 

Two  pies  may  be  baited  at  once  in  the  Duplex  folding  baking 
rack.  After  the  pies  have  been  in  one  hour,  change  the  position 
of  each  pie  and  leave  in  one-half  hour  longer.  It  will  not  be  nec- 
essary to  reheat  the  disks. 


PIE  PASTE 

1  pint  sifted  flour. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  Crisco. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  flour,  shortening  and  salt  together  with  fork,  not 
hands.  Pour  in  gradually  about  four  tablespoonfuls  of  ice 
cold  water,  and  continue  mixing  with  spoon  or  fork.  Put 
on  molding  board  and  do  not  knead  any  more  than  can 
be  helped.  Roll  and  fill  pies  as  desired.  Disks  should 
be  quite  hot  for  pies.  Usually  a  half-hour  will  bake  fruit 
pies  well  done  and  brown.  The  disks  will  remain  suf- 
ficiently hot  to  cook  any  vegetable,  without  reheating 
them. 


49 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 
APPLE  PIE 

Take  sour,  juicy  apples,  slice  thin,  line  pie  plate  with 
crust,  fill  with  apples,  then  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  flour  and  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Add  nutmeg,  cin- 
namon, bits  of  butter  and  a  little  water.  Cover  with  top 
crust  and  bake  in  the  Duplex  one  hour. 

SOUR  CREAM  PIE 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 

1  cupful  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

y^,  cupful  raisins. 

Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  then  beat  in  sugar.  Add  cream, 
raisins  and  spices.  Bake  in  two  crusts  in  Duplex  Stove 
one  hour.  This  makes  a  pie  equally  as  good  as  the  best 
mince  pie. 

CHERRY  PIE 

Seed  ripe  cherries;  sweeten  to  your  liking,  sift  a 
small  quantity  of  flour  over  the  fruit  to  thicken  the 
juice.    Bake  in  two  crusts  in  the  Duplex  40  minutes. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

2  cupfuls  milk. 

%  cupful  sugar. 

\y<2.  cupfuls  pumpkin. 

Salt  to  taste,  season  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  a 
little  ginger.  Add  a  little  melted  butter.  Bake  in  the 
Duplex  Stove  one  hour. 

50 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

CREAM  PIE 

1  cupful  sugar. 

2  good  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  or  corn  starch. 
Milk  to  fill  pan. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Bake  in  one  crust  in  Duplex  one  hour,  between  two 
hot  disks. 


51 


Cak£( 


Any  kind  of  cake  can  be  successfully  baked  in  ttie  Duplex. 
The  one  tiling  to  remember  is  that  some  cakes  require  longer  time 
to  bake  than  others;  fruit  cakes  and  cakes  with  a  large  amount  of 
butter  in  them  require  longer  time  to  bake  than  lighter  cakes.  A 
little  experience  on  this  line  will  soon  enable  you  to  know  how 
hot  to  heat  the  disks  and  how  long  to  leave  the  cake  in  the  Duplex. 

An  accurate,  definite  test  as  to  required  heat  in  disks,  is  to 
drop  a  pinch  of  flour  on  them  and  the  flour  should  brown  in  a 
half-minute.  Di£Ferent  cakes  require  different  degrees  of  tempera- 
ture; for  instance  in  baking  an  angel  food,  or  sunshine  cake,  the 
disks  require  a  lighter  brown  test  than  when  baking  devils  food, 
or  fruit  cake.  The  latter  requires  the  hottest  disks  of  any  cake, 
and  the  longest  baking.  Use  an  asbestos  mat  or  the  Duplex 
aluminnm  mat  above  cake,  before  putting  hot  disk  on.  This  will 
give  the  required  heat,  but  not  so  direct.  If  the  cake  requires  two 
hoars  to  bake,  the  mat  may  be  removed  after  one  and  one-half 
hoars. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

The  use  of  a  pure  soda  and  cream  tartar  will  insure 
an  amateur  cake  maker  more  success  than  the  average 
baking  powder.  The  Van  Duesen  cake  pan  is  especially 
adapted  to  use  in  the  tireless,  as  it  does  not  flare  at  the 

52 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

sides.  The  recipes  that  one  may  procure  when  buying  a 
set  of  pans  are  correct  in  proportion,  and  anyone  who 
follows  the  recipes  and  mixing  directions,  may  have  ex- 
cellent cake.  The  loaf  cakes  require  from  one  hour  to 
an  hour  and  a  half  in  the  Duplex.  Never  look  at  any 
cake  under  an  hour.  If  found  not  done,  replace  top  disk 
for  about  30  minutes.  Always  t-est  the  disks  by  the  flour 
test. 

LIGHT  FRUIT  CAKE 

y2  cupful  butter. 

1  cupful  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

%  cupful  milk. 

2  cupfuls  flour. 

ll^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

^  teaspoonful  mace. 

y^  teaspoonful  cloves. 

%  teaspoonful  allspice. 

%  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  cupful  seeded  raisins. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  other  ingredients  in 
the  order  named.  If  batter  seems  too  stiff,  a  little  more 
milk  can  be  added.  Place  in  buttered  pan  and  bake  in 
the  Duplex  one  Jiour  and  a  half,  using  both  disks. 


FIVE-POUND  FRUIT  CAKE 

IV2  cupfuls  butter. 
2  cupfuls  brown  sugar. 
6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
%  cupful  sweet  milk. 

53 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

2  cupful  s  flour  or  more. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

Vz  teaspoonful  soda. 

Thoroughly  mix;  when  all  is  a  smooth  batter  add: 

1  cupful  Sultana  raisins. 

1  cupful  currants. 

1  cupful  glace  cherries. 

Line  pan  with  brown  paper  first,  then  with  white 
paper  and  bake  three  hours  in  the  Duplex. 

A  RICH  CHRISTMAS  CAKE 

1^2  cupfuls  butter  (well  creamed). 

2  cupfuls  sugar,  added  and  creamed. 
Add  to  this  ten  yolks,  well  beaten. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  sifted  into  four  cups  of 

flour. 
Add  whites  of  eggs. 
%  cupful  candied  orange  peel. 
1  teaspoonful  allspice. 

1  cupful  ginger  wine. 

2  cupfuls  raisins, 

1  cupful  currants. 

NOTE:  Disks  must  be  very  hot  and  two  asbestos  or 
Duplex  aluminum  mats  used,  one  below  and  one  above. 
Remove  mats  after  two  hours  of  baking.  Bake  for  two 
hours  longer.    Same  disks  used  without  reheating. 

POUND  CAKE 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

1/2  cupful  butter. 

54 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

3  cupfuls  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

1  cupful  water. 

Bake  in  Duplex  about  one  hour,  using  both  hot  disks. 

Test  cake  in  usual  way — your  way.  Remove  top  disk 
only,  and  if  found  not  done,  place  same  disk  back  for 
15  minutes. 

CREAM  CAKE 

1  cupful  sugar. 
1^4  cupful  flour. 
1-3  cupful  butter. 
1/2  cupful  water. 

2  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoonful  flavoring. 

Bake  in  Duplex  three-fourths  hour,  using  two  hot 
disks. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

2  cupfuls  brown  sugar. 
1/^  cupful  butter. 

2  eggs. 

1/2  cupful  sweet  chocolate. 
1  level  teaspoonful  soda. 
1/2  cupful  sour  milk. 
21/^  cupfuls  flour. 
Vanilla  flavoring. 

Dissolve  chocolate  in  one-half  cupful  boiling  water. 
Make  icing  of  two  cupfuls  brown  sugar,  two-thirds 
cupful  milk  and  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Bake  in  Duplex  one  hour,  using  two  hot  disks. 

55 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE  No.  2 

3  eggs,  beaten  seperately. 
iy2  supfuls  sugar. 

2-3  cupful  Crisco  or  butter. 

Cream  Crisco,  yolks  and  sugar  together. 

21/2  cupfuls  flour,  sifted  three  times  with  level  tea- 
spoonful  cream  tartar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  soda. 

Dissolve  two-thirds  cupful  bitter  chocolate  in  one- 
half  cupful  milk.  Add  one-half  cupful  milk  besides. 
Flavor  and  bake  one  and  one-half  hours  in  the  Duplex. 

Use  Mallo  icing. 

ONE  EGG  WHITE  CAKE 

114  cupfuls  sugar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  egg. 

1  cupful  milk. 
IV^  cupfuls  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flavoring. 

Bake  in  Duplex  one  hour,  using  two  hot  disks. 

NUT  CAKE 

11/2  cupfuls  sugar. 

1/2  cupful  butter. 

21/2  cupfuls  flour  and  11/2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Vz  cupful  sweet  milk. 

1  cupful  chopped  hickory  nut  kernels. 

3  eggs. 

Bake  in  Duplex  one  hour,  using  two  hot  disks. 

56 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

COFFEE  CAKE 

1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  coffee  (liquid). 
1  cupful  molasses. 
1  cupful  butter. 

1  cupful  raisins. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  coffee. 

1  teaspoonful  each  cinnamon,  allspice  and  nutmeg. 

3 1/2  cupfuls  flour. 

Bake  for  one  and  one-half  hours  in  the  Duplex,  using 
two  hot  disks. 


57 


^tetoeb  Jfruit 

The  Duplex  Stove  is  especially  adapted  for  stewing  fruit,  cook- 
ing it  thoroughly  without  destroying  its  shape.  The  fruit  can  not 
burn  and  there  is  no  need  of  stirring  or  watching  it. 


APPLES  STEWED  WHOLE 

Pare  and  core  apples.  Pour  boiling  water  in  Duplex 
vessel  to  the  depth  of  one  inch.  Place  the  apples  in  the 
vessel  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them.  (Several  layers  of 
apples  may  be  put  in.)  Boil  over  the  fire  one  minute. 
Transfer  to  the  Duplex  Stove  without  removing  the 
cover  and  cook  one  and  one-half  hours,  using  one  hot 
disk. 

PEARS  STEWED  WHOLE 

Follow  directions  for  Apples  Stewed  Whole.  Cook 
one  hour  or  longer. 


STEWED  APPLES 

Pare,  cut  up  and  remove  core.  Follow  directions  for 
stewing  apples  whole,  using  more  sugar  and  adding 
cinnamon  or  nutmeg  to  flavor. 

By  following  the  above  directions  any  kind  of  fruit 
can  be  stewed. 

STEWED  PRUNES 

Wash  the  prunes  thoroughly.  Put  in  Duplex  cook- 
ing vessel,  cover  with  water  and  allow  them  to  soak 
over  night.    Without  changing  the  water,  place  on  fire 

58 


THE  DUPLEX  COOK  BOOK 

and  boil  five  minutes.  Add  sugar.  Transfer  to  Duplex 
and  cook  five  or  six  hours.  When  done,  pour  syrup  over 
prunes  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

APPLE  SAUCE 

Wash,  core,  but  do  not  peel.  Cook  in  Duplex  the 
same  as  for  Stewed  Apples.  When  done,  add  sugar  to 
taste  and  strain  through  a  sieve. 


59 


Canning  Jf ruit 


Fruit  cooked  in  the  Duplex  is  tltoroughly  done  and  will  not  b« 
coolced  to  pieces.    It  is  the  ideal  way  to  prepare  it  for  canning. 

COOKING  FRUIT  FOR  JELLIES 

Add  just  enough  water  to  cover.  Cook  for  three 
hours  and  strain.  Jellies  are  very  clear  when  fruit  is 
cooked  in  Duplex,  and  much  more  sustenance  and  flavor 
for  jelly  is  brought  out  by  this  process.    Use  one  disk. 

CANNING  PEACHES 

Peel  and  put  the  peaches  in  one  of  the  Duplex  cook- 
ing vessels,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  over  fire 
one  minute.  Transfer  to  the  Duplex,  leaving  cover  on 
pot.    Cook  45  minutes  (not  using  the  hot  disks). 

Use  this  method  if  you  do  not  desire  to  sweeten  fruit. 
If  fruit  is  to  be  sweetened,  use  boiling  syrup  (heavy  as 
you  desire  or  as  thin).  Drop  fruit  into  boiling  syrup 
and  remove  the  vessel  while  syrup  is  boiling,  to  the  Du- 
I)lex  for  30  minutes  (no  disk).  Have  jars  hot  and  seal 
immediately, 

COOKING  TOMATOES  FOR  CATSUP 

Cut  out  hard  center.  Cut  up  tomatoes  into  large 
vessel  and  when  boiling,  put  into  Duplex  on  one  disk, 
moderately  hot.  Let  cook  for  three  hours  or  over  night, 
if  desired. 

60 

LIBRARY 


-</-k1-»ikTT"*« 


BREAD 

BOSTON  BROWN    43 

FRUIT    44 

IDEAL  BROWN    43 

NUT    44 

QUAKER  OATS    44 

SALT-RISING     42 

STEAMING    43 

WHITE  YEAST  SPONGE   41 

CAKES 

COFFEE    57 

CREAM    55 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  No.  1  55 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  No.  2  56 

FIVE-POUND  FRUIT   53 

LIGHT    FRUIT    53 

NUT    56 

ONE  EGG  WHITE  56 

POUND    54 

RICH   CHRISTMAS    54 

CANNING  FRUIT 

COOKING  FRUIT  FOR  JELLIES 60 

PEACHES    60 

TOMATOES   FOR   CATSUP    60 

CEREALS 

CREAM  OF  WHEAT    40 

MUSH    39 

OATMEAL     38 

QUAKER  OATS 39 

RICE— 

Boiled    39 

With    Raisins    40 

61 


FRUIT 

APPLES— 

Sauce    59 

Stewed    58 

Stewed  Whole  58 

PEARS    58 

PRUNES    58 

MEATS 

BEEF— 

Boiled   15 

Flank  Steak  with  Tomatoes  18 

Filet  Roast   20 

Loaf    20 

Pot  Roast   15 

Roast    13 

Roast  with  Potatoes  14 

Smothered   Steak    19 

BOILED  DINNER  21 

HAM,   BOILED    16 

IRISH  STEW  17 

LAMB— 

Boiled  Leg  of   16 

Roast    15 

MEAT  LOAF    19 

MUTTON— 

Boiled  Leg  of   21 

Roast    21 

PORK,  ROAST    15 

TONGUE,   BOILED    16 

VEAI^- 

Braised  Chops  or  Cutlets  16 

Breaded    17 

Loaf  No.  1    17 

Loaf  No.  2   19 

Roast    14 

Stew    20 

With  Tomatoes  18 

PIES 

APPLE    50 

CHERRY    50 

CREAM     51 

PASTE    49 

PUMPKIN    50 

SOUR  CREAM  50 

62 


POULTRY 

CHICKEN— 

Baked  with  Rice  23 

Fricassee    22 

Fried     24 

Loaf    23 

Pie   23 

Pressed     23 

Roasted    22 

Stewed  with  Dumplings  22 

TURKEY,   ROASTED    24 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

PUDDINGS— 

Cottage    45 

Ethyl's    48 

Graham    46 

Molasses    47 

Plum  No.  1  46 

Plum  No.  2  47 

Rice    45 

Steamed   45 

SAUCES— 

Brandy   48 

Duplex    48 


SOUPS 

BEAN    27 

BROTH,  MUTTON  OR  BEEF  (for  the  sick)  28 

CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY   26 

CONSOMME    29 

CREAM  OF  CELERY 28 

CREAM  OF  CHICKEN   26 

MUTTON  OR  BEEF 28 

POTATO    27 

RICE    29 

SPANISH  BEAN   29 

STOCK    25 

TOMATO    29 

VEGETABLE   26 

VEGETABLE  OYSTER,  OR  SALSIFY 30 


63 


VEGETABLES 

ASPARAGUS    33 

BEANS— 

Baked    32 

Dry  Red  Kidney  33 

Fresh  Lima 32 

String    31 

Wax    32 

BEETS    33 

CABBAGE— 

Boiled     34 

Creamed    35 

CAULIFLOWER    34 

CORN— 

On  Cob 35 

Escalloped    35 

MACARONI— 

Boiled   36 

With  Tomatoes  36 

ONIONS— 

Boiled    34 

With  Tomatoes  34 

OYSTERS,  ESCALLOPED   37 

OYSTER   PLANT    35 

PEAS    33 

POTATOES— 

Boiled    34 

Escalloped  36 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATOES 37 

TOMATOES.  ESCALLOPED    36 


64 


8BI 


THE  LIBRARY 
UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 
Santa  Barbara 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW. 


UC  SOUTHERN  REG 


lONAL  LIBRARY  FACIUT 


A    000  577  744    6 


