cs, 


I 


Huauk^ 


eOOK-BOOK 


Compiitd  by 

The  Ladies'  Aid  Society  of  the  Luther  Chapel 

East  Milwaukee 

Copyright,  .1917  by  Mrs'.  A.  R.  Munkwn^. 


The  Car  of  the  Golden  Chassis 


John  G.  WoUaeger  Co. 


DISTRIBUTORS 


417  WELLS  STREET  phone  Grand  4048 


121917 


liili  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii)i^ 


THE  LUTHER  CHAPEL  OF  EAST  MILWAUKEE 
Cramer  Street  and  Atwater  Road 


GERMAN  SERVICES 
10:00  A.  M. 


ENGLISH   SERVICES 
11:15  A.  M. 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  9:00  A.  M. 


Strangers  Always  Welcome 


niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii, iniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir; 


YVTE  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art 

We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  with- 
out heart; 

We  may   live  without  friends ;    we    may  live  without 
books. 

But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without   books — what  is  knowledge  but 
grieving  ? 

He  may    live    without    hope — what  is    hope    but    de- 
ceiving ? 

He  may  live  without  love— what  is  passion  but  pining? 


But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  d 


mmg 


'C!.A457044 


clfr:'i' 


FEB  12  1917 


THE    EAST    MILAVAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


l^ffiffiBB 


@^^^@@$@@®$®; 


RECIPES 


iiiM:|iiiMt^ 


@®@@ 


&&&&&&&^&&^^^&@®&^^^^»i»&  @^^^@^^®@@@@@@^@@@®@@^^® 


This  book  contains  a  collection  of  choice  and  tried  Recipes  con- 
tributed by  experienced  housekeepers,  and  may  be  obtained  from  any 
member  of  the  Ladies'  Aid  Society  of  the  Luther  Chapel. 


SOUPS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

Bean  Soup. 

1    qt.   beans  2   lb.   fresh  beef 

j4  lb.  salt  pork  2   onions 

Soak  the  beans  over  night  and  boil  until  soft  in  four  or 
more  quarts  of  water.  Cut  salt  pork  and  onions  fine.  Boil 
two  hours,  strain  and  boil  five  minutes  longer. 

Buttermilk  Soup. 

1  qt.   buttermilk  2   eggs 

2  T.   flour  Nutmeg 
Pinch  of  salt  1   T.    sugar 
1   T.    sugar 

Add  the  flour  (moistened  with  a  little  cold  water)  and 
the  salt  to  the  buttermilk.  Put  on  slow  fire,  bring  to  a  boil, 
stirring  constantly.  Take  from  fire,  add  the  sugar,  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs, 
add  the  sugar.     Put  on  top  of  soup.     Serve  hot  with  toast. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 

I    pt.   tomato  .  4  T.   butter 

1  qt.   hot  milk  1    slice  onion 

2  t.    salt  4  T.   flour 

Heat  milk  and  onion,  then  remove  onion.  Melt  butter, 
add  flour  and,  when  well  mixed,  add  milk  gradually.  Then 
cook  until  slightly  thickened.  Add  strained  tomato,  season 
and  serve. 


•HE    EAST    JIILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


IT  IS  CALUMNY  ON  THE  MALE  SEX 
TO  SAY  THAT  THE  WAY  TO  A 
MAN'S  HEART  IS  THRU  HIS  STOMACH, 
ADORNMENT  PLAYS  A  FAR  GREATER 
PART,  AND  THERE  IS  WHERE  WE 
COME  IN. 

FOR  THE  CLEVEREST  STYLES  AND 
LOWEST  PRICES  IN 


FURS 

GOWNS 

WRAPS 

BLOUSES 

MILUNERY 

GO  TO  THE 


GRAND  AT   2^"?   ST. 


THE    EAST    MILAVAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

1  T.   flour  %  t.  salt 

2  T.   butter  Spk  pepper 
1    c.   milk 

Wash  celery,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  it  until  it  is 
soft  in  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it.  Press  it  through 
a  strainer,  saving  and  using  the  v^ater  in  which  celery  was 
cooked.  Scald  the  milk.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold 
milk  and  smoothen  out  all  lumps.  Add  the  flour  mixture 
to  the  hot  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  it  about  five  minutes. 
Add  the  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Then  add  the  celery  and 
water. 


Mixed 

Vegetable  Soup. 

qt. 

stock 

Yz   c.   chopped 

cabbage 

qt. 

boiling  water 

1    c.    strained  tomatoes 

c. 

chopped  onions 

1    t.    sugar 

c. 

chopped  carrots 

1    t.    salt 

c. 

chopped  celery 

1    ssp.   pepper 

/2 

c. 

chopped  turnip 

1   T.   chopped  parsley 

/2 

c. 

,   chopped  parsnip 

Use  all  or  as  many  varieties  of  vegetables  as  you  wish.  If 
you  have  only  a  few,  add  macaroni,  rice  or  barley,  having  one- 
half  the  amount  of  vegetables  that  you  have  of  liquid.  Chop 
all  the  vegetables  fine.  Cabbage,  cauliflower,  parsnip,  pota- 
toes or  onions  should  be  parboiled  five  minutes  and  drained 
carefully.  Fry  the  onions  and  carrots,  then  put  all  with  the 
water  and  stock  and  simmer  until  tender.  Add  seasoning  and 
serve  without  straining.  Always  add  sugar  to  all  mixed 
vegetable  soups. 

Oyster  Soup. 

1   qt.  milk  Pepper  and  salt 

1  qt.  water  Butter 

1  qt.  oysters 

Let  the  milk  and  water  come  to  a  boil.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Look  over  oysters  carefully  and  add  to  the 
mixture.  Let  them  boil  up  once.  Then  add  a  little  rolled 
cracker  and  butter,  the  size  of  an  ^^g.    Serve  at  once. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Puree  of  Carrots. 

3   large  carrots  2  oz.    suet 

2   qt,   cold  water  2  T.   cornstarch 

Good  sized  onion  Yi  pt.  milk  or  stock 

Scrape  and  cut  the  carrots  into  slices.  Cover  with  the 
cold  water  and  simmer  gently  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Put 
the  suet  or  butter  into  a  frying  pan.  When  hot,  add  a  good 
sized  onion,  sliced.  Cook  until  a  light  brown,  and  then  add 
the  carrots.  Press  the  whole  through  a  fine  sieve.  Return 
to  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  moistened  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  the  milk  or  stock.  This  is  a 
good  soup,  and  very  inexpensive. 

Rice  Soup. 

1    small  c.  rice  2    stalks  celery 

1  qt.   milk  1    qt.    stock 

Boil  the  rice  in  the  milk  until  it  will  pass  very  easily 
through  a  sieve.  Grate  the  nicely  bleached  part  of  the  celery 
and  add  to  the  rice.  Add  to  this  one  quart  of  stock.  Let  this 
boil  until  the  celery  is  done.  Season  with  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper  or  a  little  curry  powder,  and  plenty  of  salt. 

Marrow  Balls. 

Take  butter  the  size  of  an  t%z  and  the  same  amount  of 
marrow  (or  all  marrow,  if  preferred).  Stir  to  a  cream  and 
add  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, nutmeg, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Mix 
well  and  add  some  cracker  crumbs.  Roll  into  little  balls  and 
drop  into  boiling  soup  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

Potato  Dumplings. 
6   large  potatoes  1    scant  c.  flour 

2  eggs  2  T.    salt 

y^  c.  farina  A  pinch  grated  nutmeg 

Boil  the  potatoes  with  their  jackets  the  day  before.  Next 
day,  grate  them  and  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  farina,  flour, 
salt  and  the  grated  nutmeg.  Shape  into  small  balls  about  the 
size  of  an  ^gg  and  boil  in  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  Use 
one  teaspoon  salt  to  one  quart  of  water.  Drain  and  serve 
hot.  They  are  good  with  a  cup  of  toasted  cubes  of  bread 
added  to  the  potatoes.  If  onions  are  desired,  serve  with  finely 
chopped  onions,  delicately  browned  in  butter. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Rice  Dumplings. 

2  c  boiled  rice  1  T.  salt 

1  c.  riced  potatoes  1^  c.  flour 

2  eggs 

Work  all  well  together,  then  drop  in  boiling  water.  Let 
boil  until  they  are  light. 

Schwaben  Spaetzle. 

1    egg  Pinch  of  salt 

3  T.   milk  >4  c.  sifted  flour 

Beat  the  egg  with  the  milk  and  add  the  salt  and  stir  into 
sifted  flour.  Pour  this  through  a  small  funnel  into  soup  or 
salted  water.  Serve  with  brown  butter  and  a  few  bread 
crumbs  in  it  and  use  for  a  garnish  for  meat. 


THE    EAST    MILWAIKEE    COOK  .  BOOK. 


REPUBLICAN  HOUSE,  ^Z'JfuL::'^ 

COASTWIDE  REPUTATION  FOR  MEALS 


SPECIAL  FACILITIES   FOR 

WEDDING  FUNCTIONS,    BANQUETS,    DANCING 

PARTIES  AND  CONVENTIONS 

Reasonable  Rates  Alvin  P.  and  Herman  O.  Kletzsch 


ALBERT  C.  BIERSACH 

DEALER  IN  AND  IMPORTER  OF 

BOOKS,   PERIODICALS,  FINE   STATIONERY,   FOUNTAIN 
PENS  and  BLANK  BOOKS. 

CONGRATULATION  CARDS  for  all  occasions 

315   THIRD    STREET  Opp.  Wm.  Steinmeyer  Co. 


CHAS.  F.  SCHLUETER 

TAILOR 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


ROOM    27-28   MACK   BLOCK  Tel.   Main  2980  L 


W.  L.  Powell 

Staple  and  Fancy 

GROCERIES 

East  Milwaukee  Deliveries 

'Phone  Lake  1305 
843  Oakland  Avenue 


Stern's   Market 

Beef,  Veal,  Lamb,  Pork, 

Oysters 

Fish  and  Poultry 

High     Grade     Sausages,      Hams, 
Bacon  and  Lard 

JOS.  C.  STERN.       838  Owner  Avenue 
Phones:  Lake  533—534 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


FISH,  OYSTERS  AND   SHRIMPS. 

Codfish  Balls. 

4  c.  mashed  potatoes  2  well  beaten  eggs 

3  c.  boiled  codfish  Butter 

Mince  codfish  fine  and  add  butter.  Mix  well  and  add  the 
well  beaten  eggs,  beating  all  together.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
into  hot  lard  and  fry  like  doughtnuts. 

Clam  Chowder. 

50  clams  (soft  or  long  clams 

best)  6  Boston  crackers 

7  or  8  potatoes  3^  lb.  fat  salt  pork 

lean  tomatoes  Salt 

2  medium-sized  onions  Cayenne  pepper 

1  T.  flour  2  T.  butter 
Minced  parsley  to  taste  2  qt.  cold  water 

Cut  pork  into  bits  and  fry  it  in  soup  kettle,  add  sliced 
onions  and  cook  also,  then  put  in  tomatoes,  potatoes,  sliced 
and  parboiled  and  cook  two  hours  over  a  moderate  burner. 
Chop  clams,  split  crackers  in  a  cup  of  milk.  At  the  end  of 
two  hours,  put  clams  and  crackers  into  pot,  season  and  boil 
one-half  hour.  Stir  in  the  creamed  butter  and  flour  and  bring 
to  a  fast  boil  before  turning  out. 

Deviled  Sardines. 

Cut  some  neat  fingers  of  bread  and  fry  them  a  golden 
brown.  Drain  them  well  and  sprinkle  rather  thickly  with 
grated  cheese  and  cayenne  pepper.  Heat  the  sardines  by 
putting  them  into  the  oven,  well  covered  with  oil  and  dusted 
with  black  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  little  salt.  When  thor- 
oughly hot,  place  a  sardine  on  each  finger  of  bread.  Squeese 
a  little  lemon  juice  on  each  and  serve  hot. 

Escalloped  Oysters. 

2  c.  rolled  crackers  1  qt.  oysters 

1  c.  melted  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

1  c.  boiling  water  1  c.  milk 

Pour  the  melted  butter  over  the  crackers.  Alternate  a 
layer  of  oysters  and  a  layer  of  crackers  until  all  is  used.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt.  Moisten  with  milk  and  boiling 
water. 


10         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Cut  three  or  four  slices  of  salt  pork  into  strips  and  fry 
them  in  an  iron  kettle ;  skim  out  the  pork,  leaving  the  fat. 
Put  into  the  kettle  alternate  layers  of  fresh  cod,  slices  of  potato 
and  onions,  fried  pork,  and  Boston  hand  crackers,  split 
Season  the  layers  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  the  whole 
with  boiling  water,  or  water  and  milk.  Boil  slowly  about 
one  hour. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Choose  large  oysters,  drain  them  on  a  cloth  and  dip  into 
beaten  eggs.  Roll  in  fine  cracker  dust  and  fry  until  brown 
in  hot  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Some  prefer 
part  lard  for  frying.    Serve  very  hot. 

Oyster  Croquettes. 

Yt.  pt.  raw  oysters  3  T.  cracker  crumbs 

Yz  pt.  cooked  veal  2  ^^^  yolks 

1  heaping  T.  butter 

Chop  the  oysters  and  veal  very  fine.  Soak  the  crackers 
in  the  03^ster  liquid  and  mix  all  together  in  shape.  Dip  into 
beaten  ^%g.     Roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Pickled  Oysters. 

Put  your  oysters  into  a  kettle.  If  they  have  not  sufficient 
liquid,  add  some  water,  and  boil  them  until  they  are  done. 
Take  out  the  oysters  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Strain 
the  liquid  and  put  back  into  the  kettle.  Add  vinegar  and  salt 
to  taste.  Sprinkle  the  oysters  with  allspice,  cloves,  mace 
and  whole  pepper.  Pour  the  liquid  over  them  and  cover  until 
cold. 

Salmon  Sandwich. 

1  can  salmon  Vinegar 

1  T.  horse-radish  Parsley,  cut  fine 

Mustard,  prepared  Salt 

To  one  can  salmon  add  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Spread  wheat  bread  with  butter  and  lettuce  leaf 
and  apply  above  mixture. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  11 

Salmon  Loaf — No.   1. 

1  can  salmon  1  c.  bread  crumbs 

1  T.  chopped  parsley  3  eggs 

3  T.  melted  butter  5^  t.  salt 

Grease  the  mold  and  steam  one  hour.  Make  a  cream 
sauce  and  add  all  salmon  juice.  Flavor  with  catsup  and  lemon 
juice.     Very  good  served  with  potato  chips. 

Salmon  Loaf — No.  2. 

1  can  salmon  4  T.  melted  butter 

3  eggs,  beaten  light  ^  c.  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

Mix  the  salmon,  eggs,  butter,  and  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 
to  a  smooth  paste.  Steam  one  hour  and  serve  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce: 

Sauce. 

1   small  T.  flour  1  T.  butter 

Yi  c.  sweet  milk  2  T.  catsup 

Pepper  ad  salt  to  taste  1  ^^%  (well  beaten) 

Thicken  milk  with  the  flour  and  add  the  butter,  catsup, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Just  before  taking  up,  add  the  well  beaten 
^%%,  boil  a  minute,  and  pour  over  loaf. 

Salmon  Loaf — No.  3. 

1  can  salmon  2  beaten  eggs 

Yt.  t.  mince  parsley  Y^  c.  cracker  crumbs 

Yi  t.  onion 

Pick  out  bones  of  the  salmon  and  flake  fine  with  a  fork. 
Add  pepper  and  salt,  parsley  and  onion,  eggs  and  cracker 
crumbs.  Butter  a  baking  powder  can,  fill  with  the  mixture, 
cover  and  steam  in  hot  water  for  one  hour.  When  done  re- 
move from  can  and  cut  in  slices.    Serve  with  white  sauce. 

Steamed  Salmon. 

1  can  salmon  1  c.  cracker  dust  or  crumbs 

4  t.  melted  butter  Pepper  and  salt 
Parsley,  minced                             4  well  beaten  eggs 

Pick  over  and  chop  salmon  fine  and  add  butter,  parsley, 
cracker  dust  and  seasoning.  Rub  smooth  and  add  the  well 
beaten  eggs.     Butter  a  mold  and  steam  one  hour. 


TPIE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Lincoln  Dry  Cleaners 

M.  RIECK,  Proprietor 

Ladies    Garments     of    the    most 

delicate  textures  carefully  cleaned. 

Gentlemen's  Pressing  Rate,  $1,50  per  month. 

Phone  Lake  3427  580  DOWNER  AVE.,  Corner  Belleview 


M.  A.  McKENNEY  &  CO. 

FLORISTS 

You  are  cordially  invited  to  visit  our  new  store  at 

1  1  3    WISCONSIN  STREET 


o/^e-^^a^^C^C^^y^ /  Where  Quality  is  Paramount 

'^^G^^'Jiy      ^^^  SENG  Company 


247  Farwell  Ave. 
1327  Downer  Ave. 


|J__,_        \^^  ^  A  r  /        Rfkat  Protect  the  Health  of  Yourself  and   your  Family  by 
nave          \^^      J  /          UC9I.  Buying  only  the  Best  of.  Everything  in 

iy  MEATS  and  GROCERIES 

O   nVl  Y  't  is   the  cheapest  in  the  end 


__yaU  WILL  BE 

=TkiATI5FIEB 

QUALITY  ^-fi)    SERVICE 

5TREI55GUTH  -  PETRAN 
ENGRAVING   CD.  WEST  WATER  S.WELLS 

PHONE   GRANO    ISEO.       —       MILWAUKEE      - 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  ,  18 

Salmon  Timbales. 

V/2  lb.  salmon,  cooked  3  t.  salt 

1  pt.  cream  >4  t.  pepper 

1  c.  stale  bread  Nutmeg  or  mace 
y^  c.  butter                                   4  eggs 

3/2  c.  mushrooms 

For  a  quart  mould  or  a  dozen  small  moulds  use  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  salmon.  Cook  salmon  and  let  cool.  Free 
from  bones  and  skin.  Canned  salmon  may  also  be  used.  Put 
bread  and  cream  together  and  cook  until  smooth.  Chop,  pound 
and  sift  the  salmon  and  add  the  seasoning.  Mix  all  ingredi- 
ents, except  the  eggs,  and  let  cool.  Then  add  the  beaten 
eggs.  Pour  the  mixture  into  small  moulds  or  cups  and  set 
them  into  a  pan  containing  hot  water  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 
Turn  them  out  on  a  hot  platter,  put  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  the 
center  of  each  and  pour  about  them  cream  or  Bechamel  sauce. 

Shrimps  in  Tomato  Cases. 

1^  c.  shrimp  1  c.  soft  bread  crumbs 

6  medium  sized  tomatoes  J4  c-  cream 

2  T.  butter  Salt 

2  slices  onion  Paprika 

Break  shrimp  into  small  pieces.  Prepare  tomatoes,  by 
cutting  in  halves,  removing  the  pulp,  and  inverting  on  a  sieve 
to  drain.  Melt  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  onion  slices  and 
brov^n  them  slightly,  then  remove  and  add  tomato  pulp.  Cook 
this  until  reduced  to  one-half,  and  add  the  bread  crumbs. 
When  thoroughly  mixed  remove  from  fire  and  add  cream, 
the  shrimps  and  a  good  seasoning  of  salt  and  paprika.  Fill 
the  tomatoes,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  quickly 
until  browned.  Serve  either  on  lettuce  or  rounds  of  bread 
sauted  in  butter. 

Baked  Fish  with  Tomato  Sauce. 
Place  the  fish  in  the  dripping  pan  with  salt,  pepper,  small 
lumps  of  butter,  and  three  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup  (or 
strained  canned  tomatoes)  poured  over  the  top.  Just  before 
baking,  add  a  little  boiling  water,  baste  frequently  while  bak- 
ing. A  four  pound  fish  must  bake  one  hour.  When  tender 
and  nicely  browned,  remove  carefully  to  a  warm  platter  and 
make  the  following  sauce : 


14  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Add  to  the  boiling  water  in  the  dripping  pan  enough 
water  to  make  the  required  quantity  of  sauce.  With  a  four 
pound  fish  you  will  have  almost  enough  to  fill  an  ordinary 
sized  gravy  boat.  Thicken  with  flour  stirred  smooth  with 
water  to  thin  gravy,  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  strained 
canned  tomatoes,  two  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  one  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  The  canned  tomatoes  may  be  omitted  by 
adding  more  catsup.  Cook  several  minutes,  stirring  constant- 
ly and  serve  very  hot. 

Turbot. 

White  fish  Bunch  of  parsley 

1   qt.  milk  Little  nutmeg 

%  lb.  flour  1  t.  salt 

5  small  onions  54  c.  butter 

y^  t.  white  pepper  2  tgg  yolks 
Sprig  of  thyme 

Steam  a  white  fish,  five  pounds  or  less.  Pick  out  all  bones 
and  season  lightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  the  milk,  flour, 
finely  chopped  onions,  thyme,  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt  and  white 
pepper  and  put  over  a  quick  fire  until  it  becomes  a  thick 
paste.  Take  from  fire  and  stir  in  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs 
and  mix  well  together.  Pass  through  a  sieve.  Put  some  of 
the  strained  sauce  into  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  fish 
and  another  of  sauce,  and  so  on.  until  fish  and  sauce  are  used 
up.  Pour  sauce  on  top  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  bread  crumbs 
and  grated  cheese.     Bake  one-half  hour. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  15 


MEATS. 

Baked  Ham  with  Sherry  Wine. 

Spread  a  slice  of  raw,  smoked  ham  one-half  inch  thick, 
on  both  sides  with  dry  mustard,  cover  with  one-fourth  cup 
brown  sugar.  Put  into  baking  dish,  add  Sherry  wine  one- 
half  inch  deep.  Bake  about  one  hour  and  baste  from  time 
to  time  with  a  little  water. 

Baked  Hash. 

Cut  up  small,  any  kind  of  cold,  fresh  meat.  Add  to  it, 
about  one-third  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  with  a  lump 
of  butter,  cut  up,  a  little  chopped  onion,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix 
well  and  put  in  a  baking  dish.  Cover  with  milk  and  let  it 
soak  until  the  bread  is  perfectly  soft.  Stir  well  together  and 
bake.  If  you  have  gravy  on  hand,  it  will  answer  as  well  as 
butter,  in  preparing  this  appetizing  breakfast  dish. 

Beef  Tongue  a  La  Jardiniere. 

Boil  a  fresh  beef's  tongue  one  hour.  Skin  and  lay  in 
your  roaster,  upon  a  layer  of  vegetables,  cut  in  dices — carrots, 
turnips,  celery,  potatoes,  peas,  beans,  and  if  you  can  get  them, 
button  onions  and  small  round  tomatoes.  Pour  over  the  above 
some  of  the  Avater  in  which  the  tongue  was  boiled;  cover  and 
cook  slowly  two  hours,  if  tongue  is  large.  Remove  the  tongue, 
keeping  it  closely  covered  and  hot,  while  you  take  out  the 
vegetables  with  a  skimmer.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  brown 
flour.  Place  tongue  on  dish,  arrange  the  vegetables  about 
it,  and  pour  some  of  the  gravy  over  all,  serving  the  rest  in  a 
sauce-boat. 

Casserole  Roast. 

3  or  4  lb.  rump  of  beef  1  c.  onions 

1   slice  salt  pork  1  c.  celery 

1  c.  carrots  A  few  pepper  corns 

1  c.  turnips  2  c.  water  or  stock 

Fry  out  the  pork,  brown  the  meat  on  both  sides  in  the 
fat.  Cut  the  vegetables  in  small  pieces.  Place  meat  into 
casserole  with  the  vegetables  around  it,  pour  on  the  water, 
cover  and  cook  three  hours. 


10 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


GAS  STOVES  AND  FURNACES 


qQillTy 


Tin  Shop 


692  Oakland  Ave. 

Phone  Lake  3135 


Furnace 
Work 


A  Combination:  — A.  J.  GAHN'S 

Selected  MEATS  and  a  Good  System  of  Cooking. 
700-702  OAKLAND  AVENUE 

Phone  Lake  959  \  Office**  East  Milwaukee  Service  J  ''=^^'  J^^nn^D^M*  ^' 

(  Residence  '        ^^  ^'^^  ^-  ^' 


Burano,  Italy        Appenzell,  Switzerland        Florence,  Italy 

Arnold  2^issl 

IMPORTER 

of  exclusive  Linens  and  rare 
Laces  made  in  the  school  of 
Queen  Marguerite  of  Italy. 

U.  S.  Office  and  Stockroom: 
1030  Wells  St.,        Milwaukee,  Wis. 

Expert  cleaning  of  real  Laces  and  fine  Linen. 


Compliments 

of 

DR.  ARNOLD  A.  BLOCK 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Caviar  Bouchees. 

While  there  is  no  caviar  that  is  not  salted,  the  best 
varieties  contain  much  less  than  the  cheaper.  Best  of  all 
varieties  is  the  Malossel,  which  means  in  Russian,  little  salt. 
As  it  is  so  delicate,  it  is  put  up  in  tin  boxes  and  kept  in  cold 
storage.  In  Russia,  it  is  served  w^ith  chopped  onions  or  pars- 
ley and  a  bit  of  lemon  as  an  appetizer.  Here  there  are  varia- 
tions in  its  service,  one  of  the  nicest  ways  being  the  follow- 
ing: Spread  fried  circles  or  fingers  of  bread  with  a  thin  layer 
of  caviar.  In  the  center  place  a  large  olive  with  the  stone 
removed  and  the  cavity  filled  with  minced  red  peppers.  Hold 
olive  in  place  with  a  few  drops  of  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
put  tiny  dots  of  same  about  border. 

Chicken  a  La  Mode  de  Bresse. 

2  small  chickens,  cut  in  pieces   1  c.  bouillon 

2  T.  butter  1  pt.  thick  cream 

1  onion  2  egg  yolks 

Salt  1  small  can  mushrooms 

Pepper  Parsley 

Put  the  chickens  and  butter  into  a  saucepan  and  cook 
until  browned.  Add  the  bouillon,  onion  and  parsley,  and 
season  well.  Let  cook  for  one  hour.  A  quarter  of  an  hour 
before  serving,  take  out  the  parsley  and  onion  and  add  the 
mushrooms.  After  the  mushrooms  have  cooked  for  ten  min- 
utes, put  in  the  cream  and  allow  it  to  heat  without  boiling. 
Thicken  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  up,  stirring  them  in 
slowly.  Serve  on  toast.  If  desired,  add  a  little  lemon  juice 
or  slice  of  a  lemon.    This  is  enough  for  eight  persons. 

Creamed  Chicken. 

3  43^-lb.  chickens  1  can  mushrooms 

2  sweet  breads  3  qt.  cream  or  milk 
12  T.  butter  15  T.  flour 

Boil  chickens  and  sweet  bread.  When  cold,  cut  up  as  for 
salad.  Melt  butter  and  flour  together  and  pour  hot  cream 
over  this.  Stir  until  it  thickens.  Flavor  with  a  little  grated 
onion  and  a  very  little  nutmeg.  Season  highly  with  black 
and  red  pepper  and  salt.  Put  a  layer  of  prepared  chicken  in 
a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  dressing  and  so  on,  until  the 
dish  is  filled.  Then  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  a  few  pieces 
of  butter.  Bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  This  will  serve 
twenty-five  people. 


18  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

Chili  Con  Carne. 

I'lb.  chopped  beef  .  1  can  tomatoes 

2  good  sized  onions  1  can  kidney  beans 

Pepper  Celery 

1  t.  Chili  powder  Salt 

Brown  the  onions  in  butter.  Add  the  beef  and  a  little 
water.  Then  add  the  tomatoes,  kidney  beans,  celery,  salt, 
pepper,  and  chili  powder. 

Chili  Con  Carne. 
1  lb.  beef,  mostly  lean  1  pt.  red  kidney  beans 

1  c.  sifted  pulp  of  sweet  red     1  clove 
peppers  Garlic 

Cut  the  beef  into  one-half  inch  cubes  and  broil  until  brown 
on  all  sides.  Add  the  pulp  of  sweet  peppers,  which  have  been 
boiled  until  soft,  in  water  enough  to  float  them.  Remove  skin 
and  seeds  before  sifting.  Add  the  clove,  the  beans  and  the 
garlic,  crushed  with  a  fork.  The  best  results  are  obtained 
by  using  dried  beans,  which  have  been  soaked  in  cold  water 
for  a  day  or  more  and  allowed  to  simmer  in  clear  water  until 
tender.  The  canned  beans  may  be  used  if  more  convenient. 
Cover  closely  and  simmer  until  meat  begins  to  fall  apart. 
Serve  with  corn  bread,  baked  crisp  in  very  thin  sheets. 

Chicken  Saute  a  La  Bordelaise. 

2  small  chickens  3  onions 

16  small  potatoes  54  ^b.  butter 

6  medium-sized  artichokes         1  pt.  bouillon 
6  carrots  1   small  piece  garlic 

Pepper  Parsley  Salt 

Cut  chickens  into  pieces  and  brown  in  two-thirds  of  the 
butter.  Rub  the  sides  of  the  pot,  or  casserole,  with  the  garlic. 
Pare  the  potatoes  and  cook  them  slowly  in  the  rest  of  the 
butter.  Prepare  the  artichokes  by  letting  them  cook  twenty 
minutes  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt.  Drain  off  the 
water  add  a  large  piece  of  butter  and  let  them  simmer  until 
served.  Boil  carrots  until  soft.  Cut  the  onions  into  slices, 
soak  in  a  little  milk,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  so  that  each  piece 
will  be  separate.  Wash  the  parsley  and  dry,  then  dip  into 
boiling  lard  until  crisp.  Place  the  pieces  of  chicken  on  a 
platter  garnished  with  the  vegetables  and  serve  gravy  sepa- 
rately. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  19 


Chicken  Pie. 

Cook  the  chicken  until  quite  tender.  Add  plenty  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  good,  rich  crust  of  baking  powder 
biscuit  dough,  and  line  the  sides  of  a  pudding  dish  with  this 
crust.  Place  the  chicken  into  this  with  at  least  one  quart 
of  liquid  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Cover  with  crust 
and  bake.  When  done,  cut  a  round  hole  in  the 
center  of  crust  and  remove  the  piece.  Pour  in  balance  of 
gravy,  which  is  thickened  with  a  little  flour  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water,  and  return  crust.     It  is  then  ready  for  the  table. 


Chop  Suey — No.  1. 

2  large  onions  V/i  lb.  chopped  meat 

1  heaping  T.  drippings  1  qt.  tomato  sauce 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  drippings.  Add  the  chopped  meat 
(veal,  pork  and  beef).  Simmer  ten  minutes.  Parboil  in  salt 
water,  noodles  made  of  two  eggs.  Add  these  to  the  meat. 
Pour  over  this  the  tomato  sauce.  Season  to  taste.  Allow  to 
simmer  one-half  hour.  Then  place  in  baking  dish  and  bake 
one-half  hour. 

Chop  Suey — No.  2. 

1  lb.  round  steak  Onions 

1  c.  cooked  rice  Pepper 

1  c.  cooked  macaroni  Salt 

2  c.  strained  tomatoes 

Grind  the  steak  in  a  meat  grinder  and  brown  in  frying 
pan.  Add  the  tomato  sauce,  then  rice  and  macaroni.  The 
amount  of  onions  used  depends  on  one's  tastes.  Season  and 
serve  hot. 

Goulash. 

Use  one  pound  chopped  beef.  Brown  six  small  onions 
in  butter.  Add  a  bunch  of  English  celery  and  boil  one  can 
tomatoes  with  this  mixture.  Make  noodles  out  of  one  ^gg, 
boil  in  salt  water  and  drain.  Add  this  to  first  mixture  with 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Then  bake  for  one-half 
hour.     Baked  or  escalloped  potatoes  go  very  nicely  with  this. 


20 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Test  Your  Plumbing  by  Smoke. 

MILLER  &  STRUCK 

Practical  Plumbers  and 
Gas  Fitters 

ELstimates  Furnished  on  all  kinds  of  Plumbing 

Repairing  Prompdy  Attended  To 

All  Kinds  of  Water  Meters 

495  Murray  Ave.          phone  Lake  480 

Letcher's  Shoe   Store 

699  Oakland  Ave. 

Shoe  and  Repair  Shop 

Phone  Lake   1805  Y 

G.  ELSHOFF 

CUSTOM  TAILOR 

Cleaning,     Pressing,      Repairing     and 
Dyeing  a  Specialty 

370  HARTFORD  AVENUE 

Phone  Uke  3284  X 

FRED.    HARDTKE 

Quality  Meat  Market 

Best  Meat  at  Lowest  Prices 

Deliver  Any  Place  on  East  Side 

East  MiWaukee  Service 

372  HARTFORD  AVENUE 

Phone  Lake  1467 

Do  Not  Forget 

Dave  Frumerman 

When  Those  Old  Shoes 
Need  Repairing 

368  HARTFORD  AVE. 

Ritzer  Brothers 

Fancy  Groceries 
and  Fruits 

PARK  PLACE.  Cor.  Murray  Ave. 
Telephones  Lake  1458-1459 

Murray  Ave.  Tailoring  Co. 

Ladies' &  Gent's  Suits  Made  to  Order 
Cleaning,   Dyeing,    Pressing,   Repairing,   Re- 
modeling, etc.  at  Reasonable  Prices 
6 1 2  MURRAY  AVE.    Phone  Lake  3673 

M.  L.  Christiansen 

Fresh  Cut  Flowers,  Plants  and 
Floral  Designs 

412  PARK  PLACE            Tel.  Lake  722 

H.  lESSEN,  CATERER 

Weddings.  Receptions,  Dinners,  Banquets, 
etc.  Served  Up-to-date  at  Reason- 
able Prices 
1         181   MARTIN  ST.           Phone  Main  1  1 23 

READ  FRAU  CRETE'S 
Good    german    recipes   in    the   Mil- 
waukee Sonntagspost's  Womens  page 
every  Sunday. 

Subscribe  today,  Grand  500 

THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  21 

Filled  Cabbage. 

1  head  cabbage  5^  lb.  pork,  chopped 

1  lb.  round  steak,  chopped         Seasoning  for  meat 

Boil  cabbage  in  salt  water  for  one-half  hour.  When  cool, 
put  in  double  boiler  one  layer  boiled  cabbage  and  one  layer 
chopped  meat  until  boiler  is  filled,  having  last  layer  of  cab- 
bage. Boil  about  three  hours.  When  ready  to  serve  put  on 
platter,  pour  over  following  sauce  and  garnish  with  parsley: 

Sauce. 
Butter  size  of  walnut  boiled  in 

1  T.  flour  1  c.  clear  water 

1  c.  water  that  cabbage  was 

Brown  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  the  water.  Boil  until 
it  thickens.    When  serving,  cut  same  as  cake. 

Ham  and  Noodles. 

Chop  ham  fine.  Make  layers  in  dish  alternating  with 
boiled  noodles.  Cover  with  the  following:  1  pt.  milk,  three 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  lemon  juice.    Bake  in  oven  one  hour. 

Ham  Mousse. 

2  c.  cold  boiled  ham  54  c.  cold  water 

2  t.  prepared  mustard  34  c.  boiling  water 

Few  grains  cayenne  Yi  c.  heavy  cream 

1  T.  granulated  gelatine 

Chop  boiled  ham  fine  with  the  mustard  and  cayenne. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  three  minutes,  then  dissolve 
in  the  boiling  water  and  add  to  the  ham.  When  well  mixed,* 
add  cream,  beaten  stifif.  Turn  into  mold,  chill  and  garnish 
with  asparagus  and  pimento.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. 

Hasenpfeffer. 

Use  either  rabbit  or  beef.  Put  the  meat  in  a  stone  jar  and 
cover  with  a  mixture  made  of  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water. 
Add  to  this  one  small  onion,  salt,  pepper-corns,  cloves  and  one 
bay  leaf.  Let  the  meat  remain  in  this  brine  for  two  or  three 
days.  Then  remove  and  brown  in  butter.  Turn  it  often  and 
add  gradually  some  of'  the  liquid.  When  done,  add  a  cup  of 
rich  sour  cream  and  three  or  four  ginger  snaps  to  the  gravy 
and  serve  hot. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Jellied  Veal  Tongue. 

^  doz.  veal  tongues  Salt 

Vinegar  Whole  pepper 

Onion  Cloves 
%  bay  leaf 

Wash  the  veal  tongues  and  boil  in  enough  water  to  cover. 
Add  one-third  as  much  vinegar  as  water,  an  onion,  bay  leaf, 
salt,  whole  pepper  and  cloves.  When  tender  remove  tongues 
and  strain  liquid  through  cheese  cloth  wrung  in  cold  water. 
This  will  remove  grease  and  spices.  When  tongue  is  cold 
enough  to  handle,  skin  same  and  cut  once  lengthwise.  Ar- 
range in  a  bowl  and  add  the  strained  liquid  and  set  aside  for 
one  day  to  form  a  solid  jelly. 

Meat  Cakes. 

Use  cold  meat,  chopped  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Put  a  spoonful  of  egg  batter  on  the  griddle.  On  this 
put  a  spoonful  of  chopped  meat.  Cover  with  batter.  W^hen 
browned  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  other.     Serve  hot. 


Rechauffe. 

Chop  two  kinds  of  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  very  fine,  and 
stir  in  one-half  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  little 
flour,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in  pan 
and  keep  stirring  until  it  boils,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it. 
Spread  over  triangular  half  slices  of  toasted  bread. 

Sweet-sour  Tongue. 

Boil  fresh  beef  tongue  three  to  four  hours  with  a  few 
pepper  corns,  bay  leaves,  onions,  and  salt.  When  done  lay  in 
cold  water  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  skin  and  cut  in 
thin  slices.  Strain  stock  and  thicken  with  flour.  Add  four 
to  five  ginger  snaps  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  sliced  tongue  to  gravy,  let 
come  to  a  boil  and  remove  from  fire.  Raisins  and  blanched 
almonds  may  be  added  to  gravy  when  serving,  if  desired. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  23 

Veal  Croquettes. 

2  oz.  butter  2  c.  cold,  finely  cut  veal 
1  onion  Thyme 

Nutmeg  Parsley 

Rind  of  a  lemon  Salt  and  pepper 

1  well  beaten  egg  3  T.  cream 

Put  butter  into  a  sauce  pan.  Mince  and  fry  the  onion 
and  the  veal.  Soak  a  slice  of  bread  in  water  and  squeeze  dry 
and  add  thyme,  chopped  parsley,  nutmeg,  rind  of  the  lemon, 
salt  and  pepper.  When  heated,  take  from  fire  and  add  the 
cream  and  the  well  beaten  egg.  Mix  thoroughly  and  set  away 
to  cool.  When  cool  make  into  little  rolls  and  dip  in  beaten 
egg.    Fry  in  boiling  fat. 

Veal  Loaf. 

3  lb.  veal  1  c.  rolled  crackers  ' 
}i  lb.   salt  pork                           3  eggs 

Sage  Pepper 

Bake  in  a  loaf  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 


24 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


C.  SOUTHCOTT  &  SON 
TAILORS 


Phone  Lake  2972  ]  30    FAREWELL    AVE. 

JIS  NEAR  TO  YOU  AS  YOUR   TELEPHONE 

All  Kinds  of  Re-lining,  Altering,  Dry  Cleaning 
and  Pressing  of   Ladies'    and    Gents'    Work. 

OUR    MOTTO-  QUALITY,   WORKMANSHIP, 
PROPER  CARE,    REASONABLE  PRICES. 

IVe  have  daily  Auto  Deliver^  in  East  Milwaukee. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


VEGETABLES. 

Baked  Pork  and  Beans. 

Soak  one  quart  of  beans  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning,  put  them  in  fresh,  cold  water  and  simmer  until  soft 
enough  to  pierce  with  a  pin,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  boil 
until  they  burst.  If  you  wish,  boil  one  onion  with  them. 
When  soft,  turn  them  into  a  colander  and  pour  cold  water 
through  them.  Place  them  in  a  bean  pot.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork,  half  fat  and  half  lean. 
Scrape  the  rind  until  white.  Cut  the  rind  in  one-half  inch  strips 
and  bury  the  pork  in  the  beans,  leaving  only  the  rind  exposed. 
Mix  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  and  one-fourth 
cup  molasses  in  a  cup.  Fill  the  cup  with  hot  water  and  when 
well  mixed,  pour  this  over  the  beans.  Add  enough  more 
water  to  cover  the  beans.  Keep  covered  with  water  until 
the  last  hour,  and  then  lift  the  pork  to  the  surface  and  let  it 
become  crisp.      Bake  eight  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Baked  Mashed  Potatoes. 

2   c.    mashed  potatoes  (cold)     1    c.   milk  or  cream 
2   T.    melted  butter  Salt 

2   eggs  Pepper 

Stir  butter  well  with  potatoes,  add  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  then 
cream.  Season  to  taste.  Beat  mixture  well,  place  in 
greased  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  quick  oven  until  brown. 
Serve  hot. 

Escalloped  Potatoes. 

1    qt.    cold,  boiled  potatoes       Yi    c.    bread  crumbs 
1    pt.    thick   cream   sauce  Salt   and   pepper 

Slice  the  potatoes  into  thin  slices.  Butter  a  dish  and  put 
in  alternate  layers  of  sauce  and  potatoes,  seasoning  potatoes 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  last  layer  of  same  with  bread 
crumbs.     Dot  with  butter  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Escalloped  Onions. 

Use  cold  boiled  onions.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish 
a  layer  of  onions,  salt,  pepper,  breadcrumbs,  and  pieces  of 
butter,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  over  all  a  little 
cream  or  milk,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 


2G  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Fried  Tomatoes. 

Pare  tomatoes  that  are  not  too  ripe.  Slice  them  rather 
thick,  and  dip  them  into  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  butter  until 
richly  browned.    Sprinkle  with  a  little  salt.  They  are  delicious. 


Italian  Macaroni. 

1  lb.  beef  3  or  4  cloves 

2  stalks  celery  Salt 

Sprig  of  parsley  >^  or  1  lb.  spaghetti  or 

Carrot  macaroni 

Use  of  the  round  of  the  beef,  or  any  part  good  for  stews. 
Boil  all  ingredients,  except  the  macaroni,  three  or  four  hours, 
with  only  enough  water  to  stew  down  to  a  rich  gravy.  An 
hour  before  serving,  boil  the  macaroni  in  plenty  of  water  and 
salt.  When  done,  drain  and  put  on  a  platter  and  dress  with 
the  strained  gravy.     Serve  with  the  meat. 


Macaroni. 

34  lb.  macaroni  1  T.   butter 

3  pt.  boiling  water  1  T.   flour 

\y2    c.   hot   milk  1  t.    salt 

%   c.   cracker  crumbs  1  c.    melted  butter 

Break  the  macaroni  into  three-inch  pieces  and  put  into 
the  boiling  water.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  or  until  soft.  Drain 
in  a  colander  and  pour  cold  water  through  it  to  prevent  stick- 
ing. Cut  into  inch  pieces.  Put  into  a  baking  dish  and  cover 
with  a  white  sauce  made  with  the  hot  milk,  butter  and  flour. 
Add  the  salt.  Mix  one  cup  melted  butter  with  the  cracker 
crumbs  and  sprinkle  over  top.     Bake  to  a  light  brown. 


Noodle  Pancake. 

For  one  soup-plateful  boiled  noodles,  take  one  egg  and 
two  tablespoons  milk.  Mix  all  well,  and  add  a  little  flour. 
Fry  in  plenty  of  butter  until  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Turn 
it  on  a  cover.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Stuffed  Celery. 

Wash  crisp  stalks  of  celery.  Dry  and  fill  with  cream 
cheese  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing  to  the  consistency 
of  cottage  cheese.  Add  finely  chopped  green  peppers  and  fill 
the  grooves  with  it.  Add  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne,  if  desired. 
Small  pieces  of  pimento  on  top  are  pretty.     Serve  with  soup. 

Spanish  Rice. 

1    c.    mashed  rice  54    c.    butter 

8   c.   boiling,  salted  water  1    small   can   tomatoes 

Salt  1    small   green  pepper 

Paprika 

Drop  rice  gradually  into  the  boiling,  salted  water.  Boil 
one-half  hour  or  until  tender.  Add  the  butter,  tomatoes  and 
the  green  pepper,  chopped  fine.  Season  well  with  salt  and 
paprika  and  bake  in  buttered  pudding  dish  one-half  hour. 


28  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Automatic  Cooking  with  Gas 

Crowded  into  the  busy  life  of  the  modern  woman  are  so  many 
demands  upon  her  time  that  she  is  becoming  greatly  interested 
in  so-called  automatic  cooking.  Automatic  cooking  makes  it 
possible  to  place  the  various  dishes  composing  the  dinner  into 
the  oven  all  at  the  same  time,  light  the  gas,  set  the  time  clock, 
and  several  hours  later,  everything  is  ready  to  serve.  The  cook- 
ing has  been  going  on  while  the  housewife  has  been  absent  at 
the  club  or  shopping  or  attending  to  her  other  household  duties. 

THE  AUTOMATIC  GAS  RANGE 
WORKS  WHILE  YOU  PLAY 

The  automatic  gas  range  has  an  insulated  oven.  No  heat  es- 
capes into  the  room,  your  kitchen  remains  cool  and  comfort- 
able. Cooking  odors  are  all  retained  in  the  oven.  It  is  eco- 
nomical to  operate  because  it  cooks  with  stored  up  heat. 

START  YOUR  SIX  O'CLOCK  DINNER 
AT  2  P.  M.  IF  YOU  WISH. 

Put  everything  into  the  oven  at  once,  set  the  clock,  light 
the  gas  and  then  forget  it  until  time  to  serve.  That  is 
the  big  advantage  of  the  automatic  oven. 

Can  Be  Used  As  An  Ordinary  Oven  Too. 

Certain  foods  are  better  baked  in  the  direct  heat  of  the  ordi- 
nary gas  oven.  Your  automatic  oven  can  also  be  used  as  a 
direct  oven — no  trouble  to  change.  Its  broiler  and  top  burners 
are  the  same  as  an  ordinary  gas  range,  which  for  speed,  eco- 
nomy and  convenience  never  have  been  surpassed. 

Automatic  cooking  can  be  done  better  and  cheaper  with  gas. 

Besides  tl^e  advantage  of  being  able  to  use  your  automatic 
gas  oven  in  the  ordinary  way,  there  is  the  GREAT  ECO- 
NOMY of  gas  for  cooking. 

IF    YOU     ARE     INTERESTED     IN    AUTOMATIC 
COOKING  SEE  THE  AUTOMATIC  GAS  RANGE. 

MILWAUKEE    GAS    LIGHT    COMPANY 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  29 


SALADS. 

Apple  Salad. 

1    qt.    fine!}'  cut  apples  ;4  c.  French  dressing 

1  pt.  water-cress  6  stuffed  olives 

1    Neufchatel  cheese 

The  watercress  is  picked  from  the  stems  and  mixed  with 
the  apples  and  placed  in  a  salad  bowl  lined  with  shredded 
lettuce.  Rub  the  cheese  through  a  strainer  or  a  fruit  press. 
Spread  over  the  top,  and  serve  with  the  French  dressing  or 
mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  stuffed  olives,  cut  into  three  rings 
each. 

A  Good  Salad. 

1    can  peas  1    c.    meat  (veal  or  chicken 

1    c.    chopped  table  celery  preferred) 

1    c.     nuts  (chopped  walnuts 
best) 

Mix  with  French  or  boiled  dressing.  Very  nice  served  on 
three  slices  of  tomatoes  and  decorated  with  parsley  and  sliced 
green  peppers. 

A  Good  Salad. 

Cook  4  eggs  until  hard,  chop  fine  ;  add  chopped  celery  and  a 
can  of  small  peas  and  a  little  finely  chopped  green  pepper. 
Serve  with  boiled  dressing  on  lettuce  or  endive.  French 
dressing  may  be  added  if  desired. 

American  Chop  Suey. 

Take  one  package  of  spaghetti  and  boil  in  salt  water  until 
tender.  One  pound  of  chopped  beef  browned  with  a  little 
grated  onion.  Two  cups  of  tomatoes.  Let  them  come  to 
boiling  point  with  one  teaspoon  of  allspice.  One  can  of  to- 
mato soup.  Mix  these  together  with  red  pepper  to  season. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  two  hours,  increasing  heat  to 
brown. 

Bean  Salad. 

Boil  beans  in  salt  water  till  tender,  and  drain.  Now  add 
weak  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt,  if  necessary,  and  finely  chopped 
onion.  Lastly,  add  bacon  drippings.  If  more  vinegar  or  salt 
is  required,  it  may  be  added  to  suit  one's  taste.     Serve  hot. 


30  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Banana  and  Apple  Salad. 

4  bananas  5^  c.  French  dressing 

5  apples  5   c.    shredded  lettuce 
^  c.  peanut  butter 

Line  a  bowl  with  lettuce.  Slice  bananas  and  apples  and 
mix.  Put  on  lettuce.  Mix  peanut  butter  with  the  dressing 
and  pour  over  all. 

Beet  Salad. 

2   c.   chopped,  boiled  beets       1    c.   chopped  celery 
Mix  with  mayonnaise. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Shred  small  head  of  cabbage  and  add  one  onion  cut  fine. 
Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  also  half  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Now 
take  y2  cupful  equal  parts  vinegar  and  water  and  about  three 
tablespoons  bacon  drippings.  Boil  this  up  and  pour  hot  over 
the  cabbage.     Mix  well  and  serve  immediately. 

Cherry  Salad. 

1  lb.  black  cherries  ^  c.  mayonnaise  or  French 
10   almonds  dressing 

Hearts  of  lettuce 

First  wash  and  pit  the  cherries.  Blanch  and  cut  the  al- 
monds into  four  pieces  while  they  are  warm.  Insert  a  piece 
of  the  almond  where  the  stone  of  the  cherry  was.  Serve  on 
the  lettuce.  Cover  with  the  dressing.  White  or  black  cherries 
may  be  used  and  they  may  be  filled  with  seeded  raisins, 
if  so  desired. 

Chicken  Salad. 

2  c.    cold  chicken  Pepper 

\y2  c.  finely  chopped  celery       1    c.    mayonnaise  dressing 
1    t.    salt 

Cut  the  cold  chicken  into  small  squares  and  mix  with  the 
celery,  salt,  pepper,  and  half  of  the  dressing.  Serve  on  shred- 
ded lettuce  Avith  the  rest  of  the  mayonnaise  dressing  on  top. 
This  salad  may  be  garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into 
six  pieces,  or  with  sliced  olives,  capers  or  chopped  parsley. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  31 

Celery  Salad. 

Boil  a  celery  root  until  tender.  When  cold  peel  and  cut 
into  cubes.  Cut  four  hard-boiled  eggs  into  cubes  and  mix 
with  mayonnaise. 

Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw. 

Two  tablespoons  whipped  sweet  cream,  two  of  sugar,  and 
four  of  vinegar.  Beat  well  and  pour  over  cabbage,  previously 
cut  very  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt. 

Cottage-Cheese  Salad. 

1  lb.  cottage  cheese  6   stuffed  olives 
2y2  T.  finely  cut  chives  >^  c.  dressing 

2  T.   pepper  or  parsley  3^  c.  shredded  lettuce 
1    t.    salt 

Mix  the  cheese,  chives,  peppers  and  salt  together.  If  too 
dry,  add  cream.  Mash  until  smooth.  Line  a  bowl  with  the 
lettuce  and  pile  the  cheese  in  center.  Add  the  olives,  cut  into 
rings,  and  sprinkle  with  parsley  and  paprika. 

Cucumber  Salad. 

Peel  and  slice  cucumbers.  Add  good  handful  salt  and 
also  water  to  just  about  cover.  Let  stand  several  hours. 
Drain  and  squeeze  out  the  salt  water  well  from  the  cucum- 
bers. Add  equal  parts  vinegar  and  water  to  just  cover,  onion 
cut  fine,  a  little  sugar,  more  salt  if  necessary,  and  season  well 
with  pepper. 

Daisy  Salad. 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  1^  c.  shredded  lettuce  leaves 

Yi  c.  French  dressing  or  water-cress 

Cut  the  eggs  into  halves  the  long  way  and  remove  the 
yolks.  Mash  the  yolks  through  a  strainer  and  cut  the  whites 
into  narrow  stripes.  Put  a  little  lettuce  on  each  place,  place 
about  a  teaspoonful  of  the  yellow  right  in  the  center  and 
arrange  the  pieces  of  white  around  the  yellow  so  as  to  make 
it  look  like  a  daisy.     Serve  with  French  dressing. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


HeaxII 

Good  Groceries 

The  Albert  Heath  Co. 

GROCERS  CBi  BAKERS 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

West  4590  Lake  791 

2027—2029  Wells  Street  597  Downer  Avenue 

Fancy  Fruits  and  Vegetables 
My  Shopping  Place  is  at 

MUELLER  S  6LIENKE  DRY  GOODS  COMPANY 

1484  to  1488  Green  Bay  Ave.  and  1527  to  1531  Vliet  St. 
There  Is  Where  You  Get  the  Square  Deal 


Theo.  C.  Froemming 

1288  Humboldt  Avenue 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  33 

Dutch  Salad. 

5   T.   ham  3   t.   onion 

2  T.   vinegar  1    t.    sugar 

1    t.    salt  Pepper 

Wash  the  lettuce  leaves  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Cook  the 
ham  or  bacon  fat  and  onion  for  three  minutes.  Add  the  vine- 
gar, salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  of  cold  water. 
Drain  and  shake  the  lettuce,  put  into  a  bowl,  and  pour  over 
the  hot  dressing.     Serve  at  once. 

Fish  Salad,  Jellied  Tomato  Border. 

Canned  fish  or  cold,  boiled       1    T.   onion  juice 

halibut  or  haddock  2   T.    finely   chopped   parsley 

1    c.   cold  rice  3   c.   lettuce 

1    c.    cut  celery  Peppers  or  olives 

1    c.    mayonnaise 

Mix  the  rice,  celery,  half  the  mayonnaise  and  the  onion 
juice  together.  Place  fish  on  lettuce  leaf  with  rest  of  mayon- 
naise. Garnish  with  tomato  jelly  cubes,  parsley,  peppers  or 
olives. 

Horse-Radish  Salad. 

33^  c.  cold,  diced  beets  Yi    c.    French  dressing 

1  c.   cut  onions  Yi    c.   chopped,  sweet  pickles 
Yz  c.  strong,  grated  horse-       Shredded  lettuce 

radish 

Line  a  bowl  with  the  lettuce.  Cover  with  the  beets.  Mix 
the  onion,  horse-radish  and  French  dressing  and  put  two  table- 
spoons in  the  center  and  the  rest  around  the  edge  of  the  beets. 
Sprinkle  with  the  chopped  sweet  pickles.  Serve  with  cold 
meat. 

Marquise  Salad. 

2  firm  tomatoes  2^  T.  olive  oil 
Y\  c.  cut  onion  Lettuce  leaves 
Yz    c.   cut   parsley  French  dressing 

Wash  and  pare  the  tomatoes  and  cut  into  halves.  Mix  the 
onion,  parsley  and  olive  oil  together  and  let  stand  for  two 
hours.  To  serve,  line  a  bowl  with  lettuce,  place  the  tomatoes 
and  one  tablespoonful  onion  and  parsley  mixture  on  each. 
Pour  over  French  dressing.     Serve  very  cold. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Neufchatel-Cheese  Salad. 

1  Neufchatel  Cheese  3   T.    tart  jelly 

2  c.    shredded  lettuce  Salt 
French  dressing  Paprika 

Line  a  bowl  with  lettuce.  Press  the  cheese  through  a 
wire  strainer  over  the  lettuce,  or  mix  the  cheese  with  season- 
ing and  a  little  top  milk  into  small  balls,  and  paprika,  and 
garnish  with  small  pieces  of  jelly.  Serve  with  French  dress- 
ing in  a  separate  dish. 

Pineapple  Salad. 

A  slice  of  pineapple  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  one-fourth  of 
a  banana  cut  lengthwise.  One  strip  of  pimento  put  over 
crosswise.  Then  a  spoon  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  walnuts. 

A  Good  Mexican  Dish — Postre  de  Manzanas : 

Take  a  goodly  portion  of  Roquefort  cheese  and  about 
one-third  as  much  butter,  and  rub  them  together  until  they 
are  thoroughly  mixed ;  then  add  a  dessert  spoon  of  French 
cognac  or  just  enough  to  moisten  the  mixture.  Peel  russet 
apples,  core  and  slice  the  round  way,  rather  thick,  and  over 
each  slice  spread  the  cheese.     Serve  with  black  cofifee. 

Potato  and  Celery  Salad. 

1    qt.  boiled  potatoes,  diced       2^^  T.  vinegar 

1  c.    finely  cut  celery  1    t.    salt 

y2  c.  cut  onion  Spk.  pepper 

3  T.   finely  cut  parsley  1]^    c.   boiled  dressing 

2  c.    shredded  lettuce 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  bowl,  except  the  lettuce  and 
the  boiled  dressing.  Mix  well.  Line  a  salad  bowl  or  a  chop 
plate  with  the  lettuce.  Pile  the  salad  in  the  center,  cover 
with  the  dressing  and  sprinkle  with  one  tablespoonful  of  pars- 
ley. A  hard-boiled  ^%^  may  be  used  by  chopping  the  white 
fine  and  sprinkling  it  around  the  edge  of  the  salad,  and  rubbing 
the  yolk  through  a  wire  strainer.  This  makes  a  very  tasty 
salad. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  35 

Prune  Salad. 

2   doz.  large  primes  J/^    c.  mayonnaise  or  French 

1    Neufchatel  cheese  dressing 

1>4    T.  peanut  butter  Yi    t.    salt 

Shredded  lettuce 
Wash  the  prunes  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  all  night. 
Heat  up,  cool  and  dry  on  tissue  toweling.  Mix  the  cheese, 
peanut  butter  and  salt,  and  if  too  dry  to  form  into  balls,  add 
cold  milk  and  stufif  into  the  prunes.  Press  together  or  leave 
open  showing  filling.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  either  dress- 
ing. 

Raisin  and  Apple  Salad. 

1  c.  selected  raisins  2^    c.    lettuce 

Ya,   c.    lemon  juice  1^    c.   cream  mayonnaise 

2  c.    apples  Y   glass  of  red  jelly 

Wash  and  dry  the  raisins.  Add  the  lemon  juice  to  the 
chopped  apples.  Line  a  bowl  or  plates  with  shredded  lettuce, 
and  pile  the  raisins  and  apples  in  the  center.  Cover  with  the 
mayonnaise.  Serve  with  Neufchatel  cheese  balls  and  garnish 
with  tart  red  jelly. 

Red  Cabbage  Salad. 

1  c.   cut  celery  2]/^    T.   vinegar 
2^    c.    red  cabbage  1    t.    salt 

2y2    T.   olive  oil  Paprika 

Shredded  or  whole  lettuce         Pepper 
leaves 

Prepare  the  celery  and  the  cabbage  and  place  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour.  Drain,  and  dry  with  cheese  cloth.  Mix 
the  celery  and  cabbage  together  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  dressing. 

Rice  Salad. 

4  c.    rice  Yi  c.  French  dressing 

y^  c.  chopped  carrots  or  beets    1    c.    mayonnaise  dressing 

2  c.    water-cress  2   T.    onion 

5  olives 

Pile  rice  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  lined  with  lettuce.  Place 
vegetables  around,  then  a  circle  of  rice,  with  watercress  or 
lettuce  around  the  edge.  Pour  on  French  dressing  with  grated 
onion  and  garnish.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 


36 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Downer  Hardware  &  Electric  Shop 

587  Downer  Avenue 

Telephone  Lake  3887                                               MILWAUKEE 
WE  HAVE  A   FULL   LINE  OF 

KITCHEN    UTENSILS   AND    ELECTRIC 
APPLIANCES,  PERCOLATORS,  ETC. 

WE  ARE  AGENTS  FOR  THE 

"GAINADAY"  ELECTRIC  WASH  MACHINE 

The  Best  on  the  Market                                      Make  Us  Prove  This 
30  DAYS  FREE  TRIAL 

\ 

1 

i^VS(\KV\\l 

\\<l^VQ^V\ 

\ 

^ 

^  ^rc^Yv  ^ 

k 

• 

THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  37 

Red  Cabbage  Salad. 

4   heads  of  red  cabbage  4  c.    sugar 

2   qt.  vinegar 

Cut  cabbage  fine  and  cook,  not  too  soft,  in  salted  water. 
Drain  off  water  and  put  cabbage  into  a  jar.  Let  the  vinegar 
and  the  sugar  come  to  a  boil,  pour  over  cabbage  and  cover. 
Keeps  well  and  is  always  ready  for  use. 

Redbeat  Salad. 
8  good  size  redbeats  1    cup   walnuts,  cut  up 

2   cups   celery,  cut  up 

Cook  redbeats  and  cut  up  in  small  dice ;  add  celery  and 
nuts  and  cup  sugar;  mix  with  salad  dressing  and  set  in  ice 
box  to  chill. 

Salad  Dressing. 

2  T.  table  mustard  1    t.    salt 

1    c.   vinegar  1   T.   flour  (heaping) 

1   c.    sugar  1   T.   butter  (heaping) 

Mix  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  then  add  2  well-beaten  eggs. 
Cook  until  thick ;  thin  with  sweet  cream. 

Salmon  Salad. 
1    can  salmon  3   hard-boiled  eggs 

1    c.    celery  3   pickles,  cut  fine 

3  apples,  chopped  fine 

Drain  off  all  liquid  from  the  salmon.  Flake  it  and  remove 
all  skin  and  bones.  Add  celery,  apples,  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
pickles.      Mix  with  mayonnaise. 

Salmon  Salad. 

1    can  good  red  salmon  1    c.    celery,  chopped 

1    c.    walnuts,  chopped  fine       1    small  green  pepper,  chopped 

Mix  this  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on  a  lettuce 
leaf. 

Salmon  Salad. 
1    can  salmon  6    stalks  celery 

1    can  peas  6   hard-boiled  eggs 

Flake  salmon  and  free  from  skin  and  bones.  Wash  and 
drain  celery  and  cut  fine.  Dice  the  hard-boiled  eggs.  Moisten 
with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  wafers  and 
potato  chips.     Will  serve  from  fifteen  to  eighteen  persons. 


38         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Sardine  Salad. 

1  box  mustard  sardines  1    medium-sized  onion 
Yi   apple                                          3^  c.  table  celery 

Chop  all  ingredients  and  mix.  Add  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  enough  vinegar  to  moisten. 

Spinach  and  Egg  Salad. 

2  c.   cold,  boiled  spinach  2   t.    salt 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  4  T.   chopped  peppers 

4>4  c.  lettuce  Yi  c.  mayonnaise 

Add  the  salt  and  one-half  the  mayonnaise  to  the  chopped 
spinach.  Mix  well  and  take  a  spoonful  and  cover  the  yolks. 
Then  roll  in  the  finely  chopped  whites  of  eggs.  Sprinkle  wath 
peppers  or  parsley.  Serve  on  the  shredded  lettuce  with  may- 
onnaise between  balls.  Parsley  may  be  used  instead  of 
chopped  peppers,  if  desired. 

String  Bean  Salad. 

1  qt.  string  beans  White  pepper 
13^  T.  chopped  onions  Paprika 

y2  t.  salt  XYa  T.  olive  oil 

Shredded  lettuce  1    T.    vinegar 

Set  the  string  beans  aside  until  cold  after  they  have  been 
cooked,  drained,  and  rinsed  in  cold  water.  Chop  the  onion, 
cover  with  olive  oil  and  let  stand  for  two  hours.  Add  the 
salt,  pepper,  paprika  and  vinegar.  Line  a  bowl  with  lettuce, 
put  in  the  beans  and  pour  over  the  dressing. 

Stuffed  Pepper  Salad. 

3  green  peppers  1    t.    curry  powder 

2  c.    cold  boiled  rice  5    stuffed  olives 

43^  T.  finely  chopped  peppers    Yx  c.  mayonnaise  dressing 
2Y2  T.  grated  onions  Shredded  or  whole  lettuce  leaf 

Peppers  should  be  the  long,  thin  kind.  The  tops  are 
cut  off  at  the  stems  and  the  ends  chopped  fine.  Remove  the 
seeds  and  white  fibre.  The  chopped  peppers  are  added  to  the 
rice  with  the  onion,  curry  powder  and  dressing.  Mix  well 
and  fill  the  peppers,  pressing  the  mixture  in  firm.  Set  in  a 
cold  place.  Line  a  boAvl  with  shredded  lettuce  and  with  a 
sharp  knife,  cut  the  peppers  into  quarter-inch  rings  and  lay 
them  on  the  lettuce.  Mustard  may  be  used  instead  of  curry 
powder.  Garnish  the  tops  with  the  olives,  cut  into  three 
rings  each. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUXvEE    COOK    BOOK.  39 

Tomato  Aspic  on  Shredded  Cabbage. 
2   c.    tomatoes  4   t.   granulated  gelatine 

1    t.   onion  White  pepper 

1    t.    salt  Paprika 

1  t.    sugar 

Cook  the  tomatoes  and  onion  for  ten  minutes.  Add  sea- 
sonings and  strain.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water  and  add  to  the  tomatoes.  Stir  until  dissolved. 
Pour  into  cups  and  let  stand  until  firm.  Serve  on  finely 
shredded  cabbage  v^ith  French  dressing,  Mayonnaise  or  boiled 
dressing  may  also  be  used.  Garnish  with  green  peas.  A 
little  more  sugar  may  be  added,  if  desided. 

Tomato  with  String  Beans. 

10   tomatoes  Paprika 

4   c.    shredded  lettuce  >^  c.  French  dressing 

43^  c.  cold,  string  beans  1    c.    mayonnaise  dressing 

Yi  c.  cut  onion  5    stufifed  olives 

2  t.    salt  Parsley 

Cut  off  the  stem  ends  of  the  tomatoes.  Remove  the  in- 
side and  chill.  Fill  with  beans,  onions,  parsley  and  French 
dressing.  Garnish  and  serve  with  the  sliced  olives  and  may- 
onnaise dressing. 

Tongue  Salad. 

Boil  a  fresh  beef  tongue.  When  cold,  skin,  slice  and  cut 
into  cubes.  Cut  two  stalks  of  celery  into  cubes.  Also  one 
can  mushrooms,  one  small  can  pimento,  two  hard-boiled  eggs 
cut  into  cubes.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  When  boil- 
ing tongue,  add  an  onion,  a  bay  leaf  and  pepper  corns.  When 
tongue  is  cut  into  cubes  squeeze  juice  of  one  lemon  over  it. 
Enough  for  twelve  persons. 

Tuna  Fish  Salad. 

1  25c  can  Tuna  fish  1    10c  bottle  stuffed  olives 

1  c.    English  walnut  meats       1    bunch  celery 

2  large  green  peppers 

Cut  up  the  peppers,  nut  meats,  olives  and  celery.  Mix 
all  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  and  place 
a  slice  of  hard  boiled  tgg  on  each.  This  amount  will  serve 
twelve  people. 


40 


THE    EAST    MILAVAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


THE  GRIDLEY  DAIRY 

A  Milk  Plant  Organized  and  Maintained  Upon 

the  Highest  Plane  of  Efficiency 

and  Perfection 

All  of  Our  Milk  is  Pasteurized  in  the  Most 
Modern  and  Efficient  Way 


Distributors  for 

KIECKHEFER'S  CERTIFIED  MILK  AND  CREAM 

GRIDLEY'S  INSPECTED   GUERNSEY   MILK 


ALWAYS 

At  Your  Service 

Telephone  Grand  4000 

OUR  AUTOS  CALL  EVERYWHERE 

DAILY  DELIVERY  TO  EAST  MILWANKEE 

PROMPT  SERVICE  QUALITY  WORK 


Geo.  J.  Henninger 


GROCER 


IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 


1045  OAKLAND  AVE. 


Theo.  Richter 

REAL  ESTATE,  LOANS  AND 
INSURANCE 

FARM  AND  TIMBER  LANDS 

317-318  Gertnania  Building 

Telephone  Grand  1641 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  41 

Tomato  Aspic. 

Strain  one  pint  of  cooked  or  canned  tomato ;  add  teaspoon 
salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice  and  ^  box 
gelatine.  Soak  for  ^  hour,  then  bring  to  boiling  point.  Pour 
into  small  moulds  which  have  been  brushed  with  whites  of 
egg;  put  on  ice  to  harden.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  and  parsley. 

Uncooked  Sweet  Dressing  for  Salad — Very  Good. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  XXXX  sugar,  juice  of 
2  lemons,  2  saltspoons  salt ;  beat  sugar  into  beaten  yolks,  add 
lemon  juice  and  salt. 

White-Bean  Salad. 

3y2  c.  cooked,  white  beans         3^  c.  boiled    dressing 

1  c.   cut  celery  4  T.   chopped  parsley 
^  c.  cut  onions  1    sour  pickle 

1%  T.  oil  Shredded  lettuce 

2  t.  salt 

Cover  the  onion  and  parsley  with  oil  and  let  stand  for 
two  hours.  Mix  the  beans,  celery,  salt  and  onions  together 
and  serve  on  lettuce  with  dressing.  Watercress  may  be  used 
instead  of  celery.  Boiled  dressing  may  be  substituted  by 
mayonnaise  dressing,  if  desired.  Garnish  with  the  sliced 
pickle. 


42  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


DRESSINGS. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 
2  eggs  Piece  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg 

1  T.  prepared  mustard  1  T.  sugar 

y2  t.  salt  3  T.  vinegar 

Beat  eggs  well  and  add  mustard,  salt,  and  sugar.  Beat 
well,  then  add  butter  and  vinegar.  Boil  in  double  boiler, 
stirring  continually  until  it  thickens.  When  it  cools,  stir  and 
thin  with  oil  or  cream. 

Dressing  for  Potato  Salad. 

1  heaping  T.  flour  1  T.  butter 

2  T.  vinegar  2  c.  water 

2  eggs  2  c.  chopped  celery 

Salt  Pepper 

Heat  butter  and  flour,  add  vinegar  and  water,  stirring 
constantly.  Remove  from  fire,  stir  in  well  beaten  eggs.  Mix 
eelery  with  sliced  potatoes,  then  pour  on  dressing. 

Dressing  for  Sandwiches. 

2  eggs  1  t.  mustard 
1  t.  flour                                         Pinch  of  salt 

3  T.   sweet   milk  3  T.  vinegar 

Beat  eggs,  flour,  and  mustard  well  together  and  add  the 
salt,  vinegar,  and  milk.  Stir  all  together  and  set  on  the  stove 
until  it  creams.  Stir  constantly.  This  is  enough  for  a  quarter 
of  a  ham.  You  may  use  cold  beefsteak  or  other  meats,  if  you 
like. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing — No.  1. 
y2  c.  sugar  Pinch  of  red  pepper 

y  c.  butter  ^  c.  lemon  juice 

1  t.  flour  2  eggs 
Pinch  of  'salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  other  ingredients.  Cook  in 
double  boiler.  Thin  with  whipped  cream.  V^ery  good.  Serves 
ten  to  fifteen  plates. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing — No.  2. 

4  egg  yolks  Juice  of  2  lemons 

2  c.  powdered  sugar  2  ssp.  salt  (scant) 

Beat  sugar  and  yolks  and  add  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Pour 
over  fruit. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

3  eggs  Yi  t.  salt 

3  T.  sugar  Yz  t.  paprika 

1  t.  mustard  1  large  T.  butter 

1  t.  flour  9  T.  vinegar 

Beat  yolks  of  six  eggs  (or  three  whole  eggs)  until  thick 
and  creamy.  Add  other  ingredients.  If  vinegar  is  too  strong, 
dilute  it.  Very  good  when  mixed  with  a  tablespoon  of  whipped 
cream  to  two  tablespoons  of  .dressing. 

Plain  Mayonnaise. 

Yi  c.  vinegar,  warmed  1  t.  flour 

1  ^g^,  well  beaten  1  t.  mustard 

(2  eggs,  better)  1  t.  sugar 

Mix  flour,  mustard,  and  sugar  and  add  to  beaten  ^g%. 
Then  add  to  warm  vinegar.  Cook  until  thick.  Add  one-half 
cup  milk  and  cook  again.  Add  piece  of  butter,  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, and  beat  well. 

Russian  Salad  Dressing. 
1  ^gg  yolk  /^  t.  white  pepper 

1  c.  olive   oil   or  wessen   oil     Yi  t.  salt 
1  t.  mustard  IY2  t.  vinegar 

1  t.  flour  2  T.  catsup 
Pinch  of  red  pepper  or 

Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg  with  a  silver  fork  in  a  cold  dish. 
Add  the  olive  oil,  or  wessen  oil,  drop  by  drop,  until  creamy. 
Then  take  the  mustard,  flour,  red  or  white  pepper,  salt  and 
moisten  this  mixture  with  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Add 
the  catsup  or  chili  sauce.     Keep  beating  for  a  while. 

Salad  Dressing. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  Y  t.  Colman's  mustard 
1  t.  sugar                                        2  t.  flour 

Y  t.  salt  Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

Y  c.  water  Y  c.  vinegar 
Pinch  red  pepper  Y  c.  cream 

Add  the  cream  when  cold. 


44 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


599  DOWNER  AVENUE 
TEL.  LAKE  1082 


1211  WELLS  STREET 
TEL.  GRAND  81 


TWO   STORES 

C.   F.  TURCK 

HIGH    GRADE    MEATS    AND    MILK    FED   CHICKENS 
^'QUALITY  IS  ECONOMY" 


National  Tea  Company 


577  Downer  Avenue 


Take  TheWork  Out  of  Wash  Day 

Why  should  you  keep  on  wasting  strength  and 
time  on  washday  — using  the  tub  and  washboard?  That 
is  the  most  tiresome,  most  expensive  way  to  get  your 
washing  done.  It  wears  out  clothes,  it  costs  too  much 
for  help  (if  you  hire  a  laundress)  and  it  makes  a  whole 
day  of  drudgery. 

Why  should  you  wash  clothes  in  the  old  fashioned 
way  ?     Get  an 

APPV    ELECTRIC  WASHING  and 
-^■^^-^   WRINGING  MACHINE 

and  enjoy  leisure  time  on  washday.  Push  a  button 
and  the  washing  will  be  done.  An  hour  is  long 
enough  for  the  average  washing,  and  2  cents  pays 
the  electricity. 

No  rubbing— everything  made  wonderfully  clean. 

^10  PUTS  IT  IN  YOUR   HOME 

Balance  in  easy  monthly  payments 
COME   IN  AND   SEE   IT    WORK 


Al/LWA(/ii£E 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  45 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS. 

Baked  Eggs. 

1  c.  milk  Pepper 

1  t.  flour  1  T.  butter 

1  t.  salt 

Thicken  the  milk  with  the  flour  and  add  the  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  Break  the  eggs  into  this  sauce  and  bake  until 
done. 

Deviled  Eggs. 

Boil  six  or  eight  eggs  until  hard.  Put  them  into  cold  water 
until  cold  and  cut  in  halves.  Take  out  yolks  and  rub  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  very  little  butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper,  mustard  and  vinegar.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  mix- 
ture, and  send  to  the  table  on  a  bed  of  chopped  cress  or  lettuce. 

Eggs  a  La  Golden  Rod. 

Boil  two  eggs  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  shell 
and  separate.  Mix  the  chopped  whites  with  a  white  sauce, 
which  is  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  two  pieces 
of  toast.  Rub  the  yolks  through  a  strainer  or  ricer.  Sprinkle 
over  the  whites.  A  little  paprika  or  parsley  may  be  used  for 
garnishing.     Enough  for  two. 

Eggs  a  La  Newburg. 

5  hard  boiled  eggs  1  T.  flour 

1  T.  butter  1  gill  cream  or  milk 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Salt 

Yi  glass  sherry  wine  Pepper 

Cut  eggs  into  thick  slices.  Make  sauce  of  the  butter, 
flour  and  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then  add 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  wine.  Serve  hot  over  the  eggs. 

Rice  Omelet. 

1  c.  boiled  rice  1  T.  butter 

1  c.  sweet  milk  ^  lb.  grated  ham 

3  eggs 

Beat  eggs  well  and  mix  with  other  ingredients.  Bake 
until  a  nice  brown. 


46         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Spanish  Omelet. 
1  Qgg  1  T.  water 

1  t.  salt  1  t.  butter 

Separate  egg.  Add  to  each,  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  yolk 
until  thick.  Add  water  and  mix  well.  Beat  whites  until  stiff. 
Fold  yolk  into  the  white.  Place  the  butter  into  a  hot  pan. 
Add  the  egg  and  cook  at  a  low  temperature.  Place  into  hot 
oven  to  dry  top.     Fold  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Sweet  Omelet. 

2  tgg  yolks  1  t.  sugar 

3  egg  whites  Yi  oz.  butter 
1  t.  vailla 

Put  sugar,  vanilla,  yolks,  and  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  salt  into  a  bowl  and  mix  all  together.  Melt  butter  in  a 
small  pan  and  pour  into  batter.  Let  stand  on  top  of  stove 
for  one  minute  and  then  put  into  oven  for  five  minutes. 


THE  EAST  IMLWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


PUDDINGS. 

Apple  Pudding — No.  1. 

1    scant  pt.  of  apple  sauce         3   eggs 

1    c.   powdered  sugar  2   T.   melted  butter 

1    c.    grated  bread  or  cake 

Cook  spicy  apples  to  pulp  and  add  the  powdered  sugar, 
grated  bread  or  cake,  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten.  Place  in 
buttered  dish  and  stir  in  the  melted  butter.  Add  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
with  cream  or  sauce. 

Apple  Pudding — No.  2. 

4   good,  juicy  apples  %  c.  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  1    egg 

Pinch  of  cinnamon  y^  c,  flour 

Butter,  size  of  a  nut  1    T.   butter 

1    t.   baking  powder  %  c.  cold  water 

Pare  four  apples,  tart  ones  are  best.  Cut  into  eighths, 
put  into  pudding  dish  and  pour  in  hot  water  to  depth  of  one 
inch.  Add  sugar  to  sweeten,  pinch  of  salt,  cinnamon,  and 
butter,  size  of  a  nut.  Put  on  slow  fire  to  simmer.  Stir  up 
cake.  Pour  cake  batter  over  apples  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Bread  Pudding. 

1    pt.  bread  crumbs  1    qt.   milk 

1    c.    sugar  4   eggs 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  for  one-half  hour.  Beat  yolks  and 
sugar  together  until  light,  then  add  to  the  crumbs  and  milk. 
Pour  into  baking  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven,  half  an 
hour.    Very  good  with  hard  sauce. 

Brown  Betty  Pudding. 

1  c.   bread  crumbs  1    t.    cinnamon 

2  c.    sliced  tart  apples  2  T.   butter 
^  c.  sugar 

Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  put  a  layer  of  apples  in  the 
bottom.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  butter,  cinnamon  and  crumbs, 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  at 
the  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Eat  with  sugar  and 
cream. 


48 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


DO  YOU  COOK 
THE  MODERN  WAY 


There  are  many  recipes  in  this  book  which  can  be  made 
ever  so  delicious  and  tasty,  right  on  your  dining  room  table 
in  this  beautiful  Electric  Chafing  Dish. 

It  is  very  attractively  finished  and  is  clean  and  economical 
to  operate. 

This  makes  a  very  appropriate  gift  for  any  occasion. 

The  next  time  you  are  shopping  drop  in  at  our  store  and 
we  will  gladly  demonstrate. 

DO   IT   ELECTRICALLY 


JULIUS  ANDRAE 


BROAD¥AYeMICH.STS. 

f*  MILWAUKEE. 

0    WISCONSIN. 

THE  HOUSE  THAT  SATISFIES, 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  40 

Cottage  Pudding. 

1    c.    sugar  1    egg 

1  c.    sweet  milk  3   T.    melted  butter 
Flour  to  make  a  thick  batter      1    t.    baking  powder 

Danish  Pudding. 

^  c.  minute  tapioca  1    ssp.  salt 

3   c.   hot  water  1    small  tumbler  grape  jelly 

^  c.  sugar 

Cook  tapioca  with  hot  water  fifteen  minutes  and  add 
sugar,  salt  and  grape  jelly.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Serve  ice- 
cold  with  sweetened  whipped  cream.  One  pint  ripe  straw- 
berries may  be  used  instead  of  jelly. 

Delicate  Pudding. 

1^  c.  water  >4    ssp.  salt 

3^    c.    sugar  3   T.   cornstarch 

Bring  water,  sugar,  and  salt  to  boiling  point,  wet  the  corn- 
starch in  a  little  water.  Stir  into  boiling  syrup  and  cook  ten 
minutes.  Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  dry  froth  and  w^hip- 
the  boiling  mixture  into  them.  Return  to  fire  one  minute  to 
set  egg,  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  turn  into  molds  wet  with 
cold  water.  Let  cool.  Serve  with  strawberries,  pineapple  or 
other  fruit  piled  up  in  center. 

Maple  Nut  Pudding. 

2  c.    brown  sugar  2   eggs  (well  beaten) 

1    qt.  milk  2   T.   cornstarch  _ 

3/2  to  1  c.  chopped  nuts  1    t.    vanilla 

Let  sugar  and  milk  come  to  a  boil  and  add  the  eggs  and 
mix  with  the  cornstarch.  When  thick  remove  from  fire,  add 
the  vanilla  extract  and  the  nuts.  Serve  cold  with  plain  or 
whipped   cream. 

Meat  Pudding. 

Cut  into  pieces  left  over  veal  or  lamb.  Soak  in  gravy. 
Line  buttered  baking  dish  with  sliced  potatoes.  Cover  with 
meat,  and  add  chopped  onions,  salt,  pepper,  and  then  another 
layer  of  potatoes  and  then  meat.  Bake  in  oven  until  potatoes 
are  well  done. 


50         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Old  English  Plum  Pudding. 

1    lb.    raisins,  stoned  and  cut     ^    lb.    suet,  chopped  very  fine 

1  lb.    currants,  washed  and       >^    lb.    brown  sugar  . 
dried  6   eggs 

y^  lb.  citron,  cut  fine  1    t.    allspice 

2  t.    cinnamon  1    t.   nutmeg 
5^2  t.  cloves                                     y2  pt.  milk 

1    t.    salt  6   oz.  bread  crumbs 

6   oz.  flour 

Boil  five  hours  without  stopping.  Wet  the  pudding  bag 
and  floMr  it  well. 

Peach  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Drain  canned  peaches,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  let  stand. 
To  two  tablespoons  of  peach  juice  add  three-fourths  cup 
water.  Stir  into  this  one  tablespoon  minute  tapioca.  Add 
one-half  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  cook  over  hot  water 
until  tapioca  is  transparent.  Line  a  dish  with  peaches.  Fill 
with  tapioca  and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes. 


Poor  Man's  Pudding. 

2   heaping  T.  rice  Nutmeg 

1    qt.  milk  Raisins 

A  little  salt 

Put  the  rice,  milk  and  salt  in  a  pudding  dish  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  and  add  raisins,  if  desired. 
Bake  very  slowly  until  the  rice  is  soft.  Then  set  away  to 
partly  cool.     It  will  be  very  creamy  and  delicious. 


Rice  Pudding. 

y2  c.  rice  ^    c.    sugar 

3   c.   milk  y2    t.    salt 

2   eggs  y2    c.    raisins 

Boil  rice  in  the  milk  until  tender.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar 
slightly,  add  salt,  raisins  or  grated  rind  of  an  orange.  Bake 
slowly  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Let  cool  a  little.  Turn  out 
of  dish  and  serve  with  cream. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK.  51 

Sally  Lunn. 

^    c.    sugar  ^    c.   milk 

Yi    c.    butter  2   eggs 

2   t.    baking  powder  2   c.   flour 

Bake  in  cups  twenty  minutes  and  serve  hot  with  hard 
sauce. 

Snow  Pudding. 
1    T.    gelatine  1    c.    sugar 

]A,  c.  cold  water  ^  c.  lemon  juice 

1    c.    boiling  water  3   eggs 

1    pt.  milk  y^  c.  sugar 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Then  add 
the  boiling  water,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  put  in  cool  place. 
When  beginning  to  set  beat  into  it  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Rinse  a  mold  with  cold  water  and  fill  with  the 
mixture.  Set  in  a  cool  place  and  cut  in  pieces.  Serve  with 
a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  sugar 
and  the  milk.     Vanilla,  if  desired. 

Steamed  Pudding. 

Yi    c.    molasses  3^    c.    raisins 

3^    c.    brown  sugar  1^  c.  flour 

Yi    c.    butter  1    t.    baking  powder 

Yi    c.    sour  milk 

Steam  forty-five  minutes  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Hard  Sauce. 

%  c.  butter  Lemon  and  vanilla 

1    c.    powdered  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  slowly.  Mix  well  and  flavor 
with  lemon-  or  vanilla.     Set  away  to  harden. 

What  Not. 

Ya  c.  milk  1    T.    butter 

1    ^g^  It.  baking  powder  [ 

1    c.    sugar  Flour  \ 

Take  a  granite  pan  or  one  that  will  not  discolor  the  fruit^ 
and  slice  the  apples  or  peaches  in  the  bottom.  Then  make  a 
batter  by  using  milk,  ^gg,  sugar,  butter,  baking  powder.  Add 
enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  not  quite  as  thick  as  cake. 
Pour  the  above  batter  over  apples  and  bake.  Serve  with 
cream.     This  is  simple,  but  good.  \ 


52 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Exclusive,  Distinctive  Styies 

IN  HIGH  GRADE  BOOTS 

WOMEN  WHO  WISH  THE 
SMARTEST,  MOST  BEAUTI- 
FUL BOOTS  WILL  FIND 
THEIR  EVERY  DESIRE  SATIS- 
FIED IN  THIS  SHOP. 

WALK- OVER  BOOT  SHOP 

HASEY  &  STOVER,  Props. 

120  Grand  Ave.       Caswell  Block 


BIG  JO 


HIGHEST  GRADE 
FAMILY  FLOUR 

BEST  IN  THE  WORLD 


teHAROLLER'M'Ll  T 


<^-  BESTX^m  Wabasha  Roller 

BIG  JOP      Mill  Co. 

%:%^>OR"iP,#ii'    Wabasha,    -    -    Minn. 


WM.    STEINMEYER    COMPANY,    Agents 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


PIES. 

Blackberry  Pie. 

1    c.   blackberry  juice  4  level  T.  flour 

1    c.    sugar  2   eggs 

1  c.    cream 

Mix  flour  with  sugar,  add  blackberry  jam,  cream  and 
yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  good  paste, 
rolled  thin.  Fill  with  jam,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  until 
crust  is  set,  continue  baking  in  slow  oven  until  filling  is  thick 
and  firm.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  white  of  eggs,  beat  these 
until  stiff  and  bake. 

Banana  Pie — No.  1. 

2  eggs  1    c.    milk 

Yi   c.   sugar  A  pinch  of  salt 

2   T.   flour  Yz  t.  vanilla 

1  T.    powdered  sugar  3   bananas 

Cook  in  double  boiler  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  sugar,  flour, 
milk,  and  salt.  Add  vanilla  when  custard  has  finished  boil- 
ing. Slice  the  bananas  into  a  rich  pastry  crust  baked  deli- 
cately brown  and  cover  with  custard.  Whip  the  ^^g  whites 
and  add  the  powdered  sugar  to  this.  Put  on  top  and  brown 
in  oven. 

Banana  Pie — No.  2. 

2  eggs  2   c.    milk 

^  c.  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

2   T.    flour  Small  piece  of  butter 

2   large,  very  ripe  bananas 

Bake  with  one  crust.  Bake  pie  crust  first.  Make  a 
custard  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten,  sugar,  flour,  milk, 
salt  and  butter.  Boil  until  a  good  stiff  custard.  Let  cool  and 
slice  two  large  bananas.  Lay  on  cooled  crust.  Put  cooled 
custard  over  bananas.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  sugar.  Spread  on  pie  and  put  in  quick  oven  to 
brown. 


54  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Butterscotch  Pie. 

2   c.   brown   sugar  2  T.   butter 

1  c.   water  4  T.   flour 

2  c.    milk  4   eggs 

Boil  brown  sugar,  water,  and  butter  until  thick.  To  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  the  flour  and  mix  smooth  with 
the  milk.  Pour  slowly  into  the  boiling  syrup  and  cook  until 
smooth.  Pour  into  the  baked  crusts  and  spread  top  with 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.     This  makes  two  pies.     Very  good. 

French  Puff  Paste. 
1    lb.    flour  1    lb.   butter 

Mix  the  flour  with  one-fourth  of  the  butter  by  rubbing 
it  together.  Add  enough  ice  water  to  make  it  the  consistency 
of  bread  dough.  Roll  this  out  to  the  thickness  of  one-half 
inch.  Put  the  balance  of  the  butter  on  this,  in  one  lump. 
Fold  the  corners  of  the  dough  over  the  butter,  entirely  cover- 
ing it.  Roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  one-fourth  of  an  inch,  as 
nearly  square  as  possible.  Fold  the  ends  over  the  center. 
The  sheet  is  about  four  inches  in  width.  Roll  again.  Let  it 
stand  one-half  hour  each  time.     Roll  out  four  times. 

Lemon  Pie — No.  1. 

1    c.    sugar  3   eggs 

1  c.    water  1    heaping  T.  flour 
Rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon           2   t.    sugar 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water  and  add  the  rind  and 
juice  of  the  lemon,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  flour,  which 
was  rubbed  smooth  in  water.  Boil  all  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
until  well  thickened.  Add  the  white  of  one  egg,  well  beaten, 
and  pour  into  baked  crust.  Beat  the  remaining  two  whites 
with  two  teaspoons  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top.  Brown 
in  oven. 

Lemon  Pie — No.  2. 

2  c.    sugar  2   T.   flour 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2       IT.    cornstarch 

lemons  2   c.   water 

3  eggs,  yolks  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut 

Cook  until  thick.  Let  cool  and  fill  in  baked  crust.  Make 
a  meringue  of  whites  of  the  eggs  and  sugar. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


ince 

Pie. 

c.   molasses 
c.   vinegar 
c.    suet 
t.    cloves 
t.    cinnamon 

2  lb.    meat,  chopped  fine 

3  lb.   apples,  chopped   fine 
1  c.    raisins 
3  c.    sugar 
1  T.    salt 


Pie  Crust. 

2   c.    flour  34  lb.  lard 

yi    lb.  butter  1    scant  t.  salt 

1    big  t.  baking  poAvder  Yi  c.  milk 

Mix  flour,  butter  and  lard  with  a  knife  until  all  is  blended. 
Add  the  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Roll  out  on  board  and  fill 
pie  tins.    Fill  as  desired. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

1    c.    chopped  rhubarb  1    t.    lemon  flavoring 

1  c.    sugar  ,  A  little  salt 

Beat  tgg  together  with  sugar.  The  juice  of  one  lemon 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  flavoring,  if  desired.  Bake  with 
two  crusts. 

Sweet  Apple  Pie. 

2  c.    stewed  sweet  apples  ^    t.    ginger 

1    small  c.  white  sugar  2   well  beaten  eggs 

y2    t.    cinnamon 

Line  a  deep  pie-tin  with  rich  pastry.  The  pie  may  be 
baked  with  upper  crust  or  without.  Take  the  stewed  sweet 
apples,  using  as  little  water  as  possible  in  stewing.  When 
well  cooked,  put  through  a  potato  ricer.  Add  the  sugar,  cinna- 
mon, ginger  and  eggs.  A  crust  or  meringue  on  top  may  be 
used.  This  pie  is  as  good  as  pumpkin  and  is  much  easier  to 
prepare.     Apples  that  will  not  bake  can  be  used  for  this. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


ESTABLISHED  WM.   OESTERREICH, 

1894  Secretary 


Milwaukee 

NOVELTY 

Dye  Works 

The  House  With  The  Reputation" 


EXPERT   CLEANERS,    DYERS 
AND  FINISHERS 


371-375  Jefferson  St.  Phone  Main  3666 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  57 


BREAD. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. 

2  c.  flour  .  2  T.  shortening 

4  t.  baking  powder  ^  scant  c.  milk 

1  t.  salt 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together  and  then  work  in  shorten- 
ing and  add  milk  slowly.  Put  on  floured  board  and  pat  about 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Dip  cutter  into  flour  and  cut. 
Grease  tin  and  bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Two  tea- 
spoons sugar  may  be  added,  if  liked  sweetened.  This  recipe 
makes  an  excellent  crust  for  chicken  or  meat  pie. 

Biscuits. 

1  qt.  milk  ^  c.  sugar 
)4  c.  butter                                    2  c.  yeast 

2  eggs  2  t.  sugar 

Add  two  teaspoons  of  sugar  to  the  yeast  when  you  set 
sponge,  flour  enough  to  make  a  nice  dough.  Roll  about  one 
inch  thick.    Will  make  seventy  biscuits. 

Bishop  Bread. 

3  eggs  1  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  sugar      •  1  c.  chopped  nutmeats 

1  c.  flour  1  c.  dates,  cut  small 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs  for  ten  minutes.  Add  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Lastly,  add  the  nutmeats  and  dates.  When 
in  oven  it  will  raise  and  then  fall. 


Cinnamon  Bread. 

Use  enough  light  bread  dough  for  a  small  loaf  of  bread. 
Roll  out  and  spread  with  one  tablespoon  soft  butter  and  one- 
half  cup  sugar.  Roll  up  and  knead  a  little.  Roll  out  again 
and  add  two-thirds  cup  raisins  or  currants.  Knead  lightly 
and  set  to  rise.  Brush  the  top  with  warm  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  cinnamon  and  sugar.     Bake  when  light. 


58  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

r 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

2  c.  corn  meal  3  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  flour  1  T.  melted  butter 

2y2  c.  milk  3  T.  sugar 

1  t.  salt 

Rub  meal,  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  through  a  sieve; 
beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  and  add  butter  and  milk.  Stir 
in  meal  and  flour.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Ginger  Muffins. 

AYz  T.  shortening  1^  level  t.  soda 

^  c.  sugar  Ginger 

2  eggs  Cinnamon 
Pinch  of  salt  Raisins 

Y\  c.  molasses  2^  c.  flour 

^  c.  water 

Graham  Muffins. 

1  c.  graham    or    entire    wheat  ^  c.  sugar 

flour  1  t.  salt 

1  c.  flour  1  c.  milk 

1  ^%^  '  1  to  3  T.  melted  butter 

4  t.  baking  powder 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk  gradually,  then 
^^%  well  beaten  and  melted  butter.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven  in  buttered  gem  pans. 

Graham  Muffins. 

4  T.  wheat  flour  1  level  t.  baking  powder 

3  T.  graham  flour  34  t.  salt 

1  T.  sugar  1  T.  beaten  t^% 

Ya  T.  lard  3  T.  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients  first,  then  mix  with  the  tgg  and 
lastly  the  melted  shortening.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

Juden  Schnecken. 
Make  a  rich  kuchen   dough.     Sprinkle  the  bottom  of  a 
spider  with  brown  sugar  and  coarsely  chopped  nuts.     Form 
into  biscuits  and  fill  spider  with  biscuits.     Bake. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  59 


Milk  and  Water  Bread. 

1  pt.  scalded  milk  1  T.  lard 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  T.  butter 

2  t.  salt  1  T.  sugar 

1  pt.  warm  water  3  qt.  sifted  flour 

Into  the  quart  measure  put  the  shortening,  sugar,  salt  and 
milk.  Fill  it  up  with  warm  water.  When  cooled  to  luke  warm, 
pour  into  the  bread  maker,  reserving  about  one-half  cup  of  the 
liquid  in  which  to  dissolve  the  yeast.  Then  add  to  the  liquid 
in  the  bread  maker,  and  lastly  add  the  flour. 


Muffins. 

2  c.  flour  1  T.  sugar 

2  t.  baking  powder  3^  t.  salt 

1^  c.  milk  1  egg 
1  T.  butter  (melted) 

Bake  fifteen  minutes. 


Nut  Bread. 

^  c.  sugar 
1  T.  molasses 
1  t.  salt 
1  c.  sour  milk 

1  t.  soda 
34  c.  walnuts 
1^/2  c.  graham  flour 
34  c.  white  flour 

Parker  House  Rolls. 

2  qt.  sifted  flour  >4  c.  sugar 

3  T.  butter  ^  cake  yeast 
1  pt.  cold,  boiled  milk 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour.  In  a  hole  made  in  the 
center  of  the  flour  put  the  milk,  sugar  and  yeast.  Set  at  night. 
In  the  morning,  mix  with  the  flour  (do  not  add  more  flour). 
Let  rise  until  about  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  Roll  out 
and  cut  with  a  cake  cutter.  Spread  half  with  butter  and  fold 
together.  Let  rise  again  and  brush  over  with  a  little  sugar 
dissolved  in  milk  before  putting  into  the  oven. 


CO         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

EDWIN  J.  KRAUS 

Phone  Lincoln  920  1414   GREEN   BAY   AVE. 

HARDWARE,  TIN  and  FURNACE  WORK 

Builders  Hardware,  Carpenters  and  Mechanics  Tools,  Paints,  Oils,  Glass 
AUTO  and  ELECTRICAL  SUPPLIES 

WHY  TRADE  DOWNTOWN 

For  Convenience  and  Reasonable   Prices  Trade  at 

E.   M.   HOWE 

GROCER 

1060  Oakland  Avenue  Phone  Lake  1566-L 

WE  DELIVER  PROMPTLY 

Phone  Lake  3378  and  3379 

WM.   THOMPSON 

DRUGGIST 

Corner  Oakland  Avenue  and  Folsom  Place 
For  Prompt  Deliveries  in  East  Milwaukee 

JOHN  H  LAMBRECHT 

DEALER  IN 

PASTEURIZED  CREAMERY  BUTTER 
AND  FRESH  EGGS 

836   Sixteenth  Street  Phone  Kilbourn   1726 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  01 


Potato  Rolls. 

1  pt.  mashed  potatoes  1  pt.  warm  water 

1  c.  sugar  3  eggs  (well  beaten) 
A  little  salt  2c  yeast 

2  T.  lard  Flour 

In  the  evening  take  the  potatoes,  sugar,  salt  and  lard  and 
stir  well  together.  Add  the  water,  eggs,  yeast,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  stiff.  In  the  morning  when  more  flour  is 
added,  add  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Work  up  stiff 
and  make  into  small  biscuits  and  place  in  pan  for  baking. 
Grease  well  over  the  top  and  let  rise  until  light  enough  to 
bake.  Will  make  sixty  rolls  and  can  be  out  of  the  oven  by 
9  A.M. 

Rye  Bread. 

1  pt.  scalded  millc  1  T.  butter 

1  pt.  warm  water  3  t.  salt 

2  T.  sugar  2  qt.  rye  flour 

1  qt.  white  flour  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  T.  lard 

Put  into  the  quart  measure  the  shortening,  sugar,  salt, 
milk  and  fill  up  with  warm  water.  Let  cool  to  luke  warm. 
Pour  into  the  bread  maker,  reserving  only  enough  of  the  liquid 
to  thoroughly  dissolve  the  yeast.  Pour  the  dissolved  yeast 
into  the  bread  maker  and  add  the  wheat  and  rye  flour.  The 
shortening  may  be  omitted,  if  desired,  as  also  the  sugar. 


Steamed  Brown  Bread. 

2  c.  sour  milk  1  c.  molasses 

1  c.  rye  flour  1  t.  soda 

2  c.  corn  meal  2  eggs 

Steam  two  hours. 


62         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


There  is  a  Real  Difference 


Cream  of  tartar,  derived  from  grapes, 
is  used  in  Dr.  Price's  Cream  Baking 
Powder  because  it  is  the  best  and  most 
healthful  ingredient  known  for  the  pur- 
pose. 

Alum  and  phosphate,  which  are  derived 
from  mineral  acids,  are  used  in  some 
baking  powders,  instead  of  cream  of 
tartar,  because  they  are  cheaper. 

If  you  have  been  induced  to  use  baking 
powders  made  from  alum  or  phosphate, 
use  Dr.  Price's  Cream  Baking  Powder 
instead.  You  will  be  pleased  with  the 
results  and  the  difference  in  the  quality 
of  the  food 


Dr.PRIC£*S 

BAKING  POWDER 

MADE  FROM   CREAM  OF  TARTAR 
DERIVED  FROM  GRAPES 

No  Alum  No  Phosphate 


THE    EAST    JIILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  03 


CAKES. 

She  measured  out  the  butter  with  a  very  solemn  air; 

The  milk  and  sugar  also ;  she  took  the  greatest  care 

To  count  the  eggs  correctly  and  to  add  a  little  bit 

Of  baking  powder,  which,  you  know,  beginners  oft  omit 

Then  she  stirred  it  all  together,  and  she  baked  it  full  an  hour; 

But  she  never  quite  forgave  herself  for  leaving  out  the  flour. 

Cake  Flour. 

5  lb.  bread  flour  1  lb.  cornstarch 

Cake  flour  produces  much  better  results  in  cake  making 
than  common  flour.  This  is  especially  true  of  angel  food 
cakes.  Cake  flour  can  easily  and  successfully  be  made  at 
home  and,  if  kept  handy  in  a  special  place,  you  will  not  be 
tempted  to  use  bread  flour.  Take  five  pounds  of  bread  flour 
to  one  pound  box  of  cornstarch  and  sift  it  together  three  times. 
You  can  make  it  in  small  quantities,  if  you  wish,  provided  you 
are  careful  to  keep  the  proportion  of  one  to  five. 

Almond  Bread  (Christmas  Cakes). 

Yi  c.  butter  Yi  t.  cinnamon 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  ^  t.  cloves 

Y2  cake  German  sweet  choco-2  c.  flour 

late.  v3  t.  baking  powder 

4  eggs 
Y2  lb.    blanched    almonds,    cut  fine 

Bake  in  shallow  coflFee  cake  tins  and  when  cold  put  on 
following  frosting  and  cut  in  squares : 

Frosting. 

1  c.  sugar  Y^  c.  water 

Small  piece  of  butter  1  t.  vanilla 

Boil  five  minutes,  then  beat  until  cold  and  creamy. 

Almond  Torte. 

6  eggs  1  t.  baking  powder 
1  c.  powdered  sugar 

Yi    lb.    grated    or    ground    almonds 

Beat  eggs  separately.  Stir  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add 
almonds  (not  blanched),  baking  powder  and  lastly,  whites  of 
eggs.     Bake  forty  minutes. 


64 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


HdRTb 


Metal  Garages 

MADE  ENTIRELY  OF  STEEL 

The  accompanying  illustration  shows  one  of  the  many  styles  of  metal 
garages  manufactured  by  us. 

The  economy  and  convenience  derived  from  having  your  own  garage 
right  near  your  home  are  many. 

In  the  first  place  "PORTO"  Garages  made  entirely  of  steel  afford 
absolute  protection  from  fire  and  vandalism.  They  are  very  orna- 
mental and  can  be  painted  any  color  to  be  in  perfect  keeping  with 
other  buildings  and  surroundings. 

Another  important  advantage  is  the  fact  that  they  are  portable.  Should 
the  car  owner  decide  to   move  he    can  take  the  garage  with  him. 
"PORTO"  Metal  Garages  are  made  in  sizes  to  fit  all  makes  of  cars 
— with  plenty  of  room  for  the  car  and  a  liberal  amount  of  space  to 
work  around  it. 

PHONE  ORCHARD  202-AND  OUR  REPRESENTATIVE  WILL  CALL. 

MILWAUKEE  CORRUGATING  CO. 

36th  Ave.  and  Burnham  St.  MILWAUKEE,  WIS. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  65 


Apple 

Sauce  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  raisins,  chopped 

3^  c.  butter  and  lard 

2  c.  flour 

iy2  c.  hot  apple  sauce 

2  t.  soda 

10c  walnuts,  chopped 

Cinnamon 

A  little  nutmeg 

Salt 

Cream,  butter  and  sugar.     Add  hot  apple  sauce,  flour, 

soda,  nutmeg,  salt,  cinnamon,  walnuts,  and  raisins.     Bake  in 

a  moderate  oven. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar 

iy2  t.  cloves 

y2  c.  shortening 

1  t.  cinnamon 

1  t.  salt 

y2  t.  nutmeg 

1  c.  apple  sauce 

1  c.  raisins 

1  t.  soda 

2  c.  flour 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  hot  water. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake. 

1  c.  hot  apple  sauce  1  t.  cinnamon 

y  c.  butter  1  c.  chopped  walnuts 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  raisins 

ly  c.  flour  1  t.  soda 

1  t.  cloves 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  hot  apple  sauce,  in 
which  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 

Apple  Spice  Cake. 

4  T.  butter  y  c.  sour  milk 

1  c.  sugar  2  t.  cinnamon 

2  well  beaten  eggs  %  t.  cloves 

y  t.  grated  nutmeg  1  heaping    c.    finely    chopped 

2  c.  flour  apples 

1  t.  soda 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Then  add  the  well  beaten 
eggs.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  sour  milk.  Add  the  cinna- 
mon, cloves  and  grated  nutmeg  mixed  with  the  flour.  If 
necessary,  add  more  flour  as  it  depends  on  how  juicy  the 
apples  are.  Beat  well.  May  be  baked  either  in  loaf  or  layer. 
Any  plain  frosting,  if  desired.  This  makes  a  moist  cake  and 
may  be  kept  a  week  or  more. 


66  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


SACHSE  &  LAFEBER 

FANCY  GROCERIES 

FRUITS  &  VEGETABLES 


Phone  Uncoln   2029  860  BUFFUM  ST.,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 


KUECHLE-WEYLAND  CO. 

DRY  GOODS-TOYS 
FINE  MILLINERY 

Merchandise  Bonds  and  Kroeger's  Stamps  Given 

FOND    DU    LAC   AVENUE   AND    27TH   STREET 


EVERTHING  KNOWN  IN 
MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS 

A.  B.  CHASE  and  ten  other  makes 
of  Pianos  and  Player  Pianos. 

Edison  Diamond  Disc  Phonograghs 
and  Records. 

Elanner-Hafsoos 

„^  MUSIC  HOUSE 


417  BROADWAY  MILWAUKEE 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Apple  Torte. 

V/z  lb.  apples,  boiled  and  sifted 

2  oz.  blanched  almonds  5  eggs 

6  oz.  sugar  Rind  of  3^  lemon 

1  heaping  t.  flour  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Fold  whites  of  eggs  in  last. 

Dough. 

6  oz.  butter  Yi  t.  baking  powder 

6  oz.  flour  4  T.  sugar 

2  tg^  yolks  Vanilla 

Baking  Powder  Coffee  Cake. 

2  c.  flour  Ya  c.  butter 

1  c.  sugar  Ya  c.  milk 

2  t.  baking  powder  2  eggs 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  butter  like  piecrust. 
Set  aside  one  cupful  of  this  mixture.  Add  milk  and  eggs  and 
bake  in  coffee  cake  pan.  Strew  the  one  cupful  of  crumbs  on 
top. 

Baking  Powder  Coffee  Cake. 

2  c.  flour  1  T.  sugar 
4  t.  baking  powder  2  T.  butter 
Y2  t.  salt                                          %  c.  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients  four  times.  Then  cut  in  shortening 
with  two  knives  until  it  is  as  fine  as  cornmeal.  Gradually  add 
the  cold  milk  by  cutting  with  knife  through  dough.  Sprinkle 
two  tablespoons  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon  on  top. 

Blitz  Torte— No.  1. 

Y2  c.  butter  1  c  flour 

Y2  c.  sugar  1  t.  baking  powder 

4  eggs  (volks)  Ya  c.  powdered  sugar 

3  T.  milk 

Put  in  two  large  tins.  On  the  top  of  this  put  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  with  the  powdered  sugar.  Sprinkle  with  a  few 
chopped  almonds.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Filling. 
1  c.  sour  cream  1  T.  cornstarch 

3  T.  sugar  Yolk  of  1  tgg 

Dissolve  corn  starch  in  cold  water  and  boil  with  the  above 
ingredients.    When  thick  and  cold  add  white  of  tgg. 


68         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


HOUSEWIVES 

Do  you  know  that  most  all 
Kitchen  Utensils  or  parts  there- 
of are  manufactured  with  the 
assistance  of  ffEMPSMiTH 

Milling  Machines? 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiMiiiiiiiinii 


THE 


KEMPSMif  H  MFR  (in 

MILWAUKEE,  U.  S.  A. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK.  G9 


Blitz  Torte— No.  2. 

Yi  c.  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

Yi  c.  butter  1  heaping  c.  flour 

4  eggs  1  t.  baking  powder 

5  T.  milk 

Bake  in  two  layers.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff  and 
add  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  almonds,  finely 
chopped.  Put  beaten  whites  on  cake  mixture  and  strew  al- 
monds over  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 
Custard  filling  between  layers. 


Blitz  Torte— No.  3. 

4  oz.  sugar  4  T.  milk 

4  oz.  butter  4  oz.  flour  " 

4  eggs  1  t.  baking  powder 

Mix  the  ingredients  well.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  spread  on  dough.  Place  blanched 
almonds  on  top  and  bake  twenty  minutes  to  one-half  hour. 
Bake  in  two  layers  and  fill  with  boiled  custard. 


Blitz  Torte— No.  4. 

1  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  vanilla 

Yi  c.  sugar 

Y\  lb.  almonds  ^j 

Spread  a  mixture  of  the  sugar,  butter,  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
milk,  flour,  baking  powder,  and  vanilla  on  the  bottom  of  the 
pan.  Then  put  on  one-half  cup  sugar,  whites  of  the  eggs 
whipped  stiff,  and  the  almonds.  Then  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Filling. 

1  c.  sour  cream  3  T.  sugar 

1  T.  corn  starch  1  t.  vanilla 

1  ^Z% 


/. 

c. 

sugar 

M 

c. 

butter 

4 

eggs 

3 

T. 

milk 

/a 

c. 

flour 

THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


QO^N^ISTENT 


c/Koiors 


WISCONSIN   Consistent    Truck    Motors, 

The  power  plant  truck  owners  can  depend  on 
for  continual  and  consistent  service  day  in  and 
day  out,  year  in  and  year  out,  both  for  power 
and  economy. 


WISCONSIN  MOTOR  MFG.  CO. 

Station  A 
MILWAUKEE         ...  -        WISCONSIN 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Blueberry  Torte. 

6  oz.  butter  Yi  c.  sugar 

2  T.  sugar  2  heaping  T.  flour 

1  egg  1  ^ZZ 

y2  lb.  flour  y2  c.  sugar 

1^  qt.  blueberries  3^  c.  sour  cream 

Cream  butter  and  two  tablespoons  sugar,  stir  in  one  ^%g, 
then  one  half  pound  flour.  Line  inside  of  spring  form  with 
this  mixture.  Take  the  blueberries  and  mix  one-half  cup 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  flour  and  fill  the  crust.  Put  in  slow 
oven  and  let  bake  one-half  hour  or  until  about  one-half  done. 
At  this  time,  pour  over  the  fruit  a  sauce  made  of  the  beaten 
yolk  of  one  ^%^  mixed  with  one-half  cup  sugar  and  the  sour 
cream.  Then  stir  in  the  beaten  white  of  ^gg  and  let  bake 
another  one-half  hour  or  until  done.  Let  cool  in  form.  Re- 
move rim  carefully  and  let  torte  stand  on  tin. 

Bread  Torte. 

2  c.  sugar  1  grated  lemon  rind 

8  eggs  3  c.  grated  rye  bread 

1  c.  almonds  (chopped)  2  t.  baking  powder 

Stir  sugar,  eggs,  and  lemon  to  cream.  Add  almonds,  bread, 
and  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten.    Stir  again.    Very  good. 

Filling. 

1  slate  chocolate  3  T.  water 

3  ^gg  yolks  1  c.  sugar 
Butter,  size  of  an  tg^  Boil. 


Brown  Cake. 

3  c.  flour  1  c.  currants 


butter  Allspice 


2  eggs  Cinnamon 

1  c.  raisins  1  lemon 

Yi  c.  sugar  1  c.  molasses 

1  c.  sour  milk  1  t.  saleratus 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Compliments  of 


Milwaukee  Photo 
Materials  Co. 


i# 


Fox  in  the  Cup 
(Perfection  on  the  Palate 


Always  the  same 


3  LBS.  For  $1.00 

Delivered  anywhere  in  W^isconsin  Postage  Prepaid 

J.  M.  FOX  ca,  SON,  Inc. 


MILWAUKEE,  WIS. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Brown  Form  Cake. 

3  eggs  1  c.  raisins 

1  lb.  dark  brown  sugar  10c  citron 

Butter,  size  of  an  tgg  1  t.  allspice 

1  c.  milk  1  t.  cloves 

1  t.  nutmeg  1  t.  cinnamon 

3  t.  baking  powder  Flour  enough  to  stiffen 

Butter,  Egg  and  Milkless  Cake. 
1  c.  brown  sugar  2  T,  lard 

1  c.   (or  more)  seeded  raisins   Pinch  of  salt 
}^  t.  cinnamon  Little  nutmeg 

%  t.  cloves  2  c.  flour 

1  t.  baking  soda  ^  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  water 

Put  sugar,  raisins,  water  and  lard  in  a  sauce  pan.  Add 
the  salt,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for 
three  minutes,  let  cool.  Add  the  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  warm  water.  Add  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  baking 
powder.     Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven. 

Cheap  Devil's  Food. 

1  T.  butter  1  c.  sugar 

1  T.  lard  1  c.  sour  milk 

1  egg  1  t.  soda 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  vanilla 

3  T.  cocoa 

Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water.  Mix  the  cocoa  with  the 
sugar. 

Frosting. 

2  egg  whites  1  t.  vanilla 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  2  squares  of  bitter  chocolate 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water. 

Cheap  Sponge  Cake. 

3  eggs  2  c.  flour  (scant) 

1  c.  sugar  2  t.  baking   powder 

^  t.  salt  Flavoring 

1  c.  boiling  water 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  other  ingredi- 
ents in  the  order  given. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


HOME    BROS.    COMPANY 

FANCY  GROCERIES  &  DELICATESSEN 


HOME  BROS.  CO. 

p.  „„^  I  Lake  848 

f^^°"^  \  Lake  849 

844-846  Downer  Avenue 


THREE    STORES 

HOME  BROS.  CO. 

pi    „„  ?  Main  514 
Phones  ^jyi^i^  3,4 


146-150  Mason  Street 

DISTRIBUTORS  OF  CHIPPEWA  SPRING  WATER 

TRY  A  LOAF  OF  OUR  HOME-MADE  BREAD. 


HOME  BROS.  CO. 

Phone 

Lake  1976 

603    Downer  Avenue 


FRANK  F.  SCHULTZ 

THE  ELDRED  AGENCY 

GENERAL  INSURANCE 

Phone  Main  84  51 1-516  PABST  BUILDING.  Milwaukee 

J.  E.  NICHOLUS,  JR. 

MEAT  MARKET 

FRESH  and  SALTED  MEATS 

DRESSED    POULTRY    IN    SEASON 

Telephone  Lincoln  329  lY  1525  RICHARD  STREET 

Greater   Milwaukee  Printery 

COMMERCIAL  PRINTERS 

Phone  GrMd  3830  463  THIRD  STREET 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Cheese  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  lemon 

3  eggs  1  lb.  cottage  cheese 

2  T.  flour  1  pt.  sweet  milk 
Grated   rind   and   juice  of   1      ^  c.  currants 

Beat  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  until  light.  Add 
the  flour,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  the  cottage 
cheese.  Beat  well  together  and  stir  in  the  sweet  milk.  Lastly, 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in 
deep  pan  lined  with  pie  crust.  Currants  may  be  added  over 
top  before  baking.  Bake  as  you  would  custard  pie.  Very 
good. 

Cheese  Cake. 

2  lb.  cottage  cheese  1  c.  milk  or  cream 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  1  T.  vanilla 

1  T.  flour  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

Ij^  c.  sugar 

Stir  cottage  cheese  until  smooth.  Take  either  pie  crust 
or  coflfee-cake  dough. 

Cheese  Torte. 

1  lb.  zwieback,  grated  4  eggs 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  sugar 

1  t.  cinnamon  ^  pt.  sweet  cream 
y^  c.  melted  butter                      Vanilla  to  taste 

2  lb.  cottage  cheese 

To  make  crust,  mix  zwueback,  sugar,  cinnamon  and  butter. 
Take  out  one  cup  of  this  mixture  for  top  of  cake,  add  cottage 
cheese  and  stir  until  very  smooth.  Then  add  the  eggs,  sugar, 
cream  and  vanilla,  spread  over  crust  and  bake. 

Chocolate  Cake. 
1  c.  white  sugar  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  brown  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 

4  eggs  1  c.  grated  bitter  chocolate 
1  c.  butter                                     1  c.  coffee 

Beat  the  eggs  separately.  Boil  the  coffee,  sugar  and  the 
chocolate  and  let  cool.  Bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  custard  or 
chocolate  filling. 

Frosting. 
iy2  T.  butter  1  c.  confectioner's  sugar 

\y2  T.  chocolate 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


GRASSLER  &  GEZELSCHAP 

214  THIRD  STREET 
CHRISTMAS  PRESENTS 

Lamps  of  all  styles  — 

FLOOR  LAMPS  PARLOR  LAMPS 

LIBRARY  LAMPS  SILK  SHADES 

CHANDELIERS 

Importers— Marble    Bowls   and   many   useful  and 
beautiful  Articles. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Cornstarch  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  2  c.  flour 

Piece  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg   1  T.  cornstarch 
Piece  of  lard,  size  of  an  egg      2  t.  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt  1  c.  milk 

Vanilla 

This  cake  does  not  require  eggs  and  is  delicious. 

Cottage  Cheese  Torte. 

10  large   zwieback    (grated)     2  c.  sugar 

%  c.  melted  butter  3  eggs 

1  T.  cinnamon  2  lb.  cottage  cheese 

1  c.  sugar  1  T.  flour 

Lemon  or  vanilla  extract  ^   pt.  cream 

Spread  a  mixture  of  the  zwieback,  butter,  cinnamon  and 
one  cup  of  sugar  in  spring  form  very  carefully.  Then  pour 
in  filling  of  the  remaining  ingredients.  Sprinkle  a  little  zwie- 
back over  this.     Bake  slowly  for  an  hour. 

Cranberry  Torte. 
4  eggs  1  c.  dates 

V/z  Q,  sugar  1  c.  flour 

1  c.  walnuts  1  t.  baking  powder 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  the  walnuts 
and  dates,  chopped,  the  flour  containing  baking  powder 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  The  day  before  serving,  cook  one  quart  of  cranberries 
with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  when  cool  spread  on  cake.  Just 
before  serving  the  next  day,  cover  the  cranberries  with 
whipped  cream. 

Crumb  Cake. 

2  c.  brown  sugar  1  egg 

Little  salt  1  c.  sour  milk 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  soda 

3/2  c.  lard 

Cream  flour  with  lard.  Take  out  three-fourths  cup  of  the 
mixture  of  sugar,  salt,  flour  and  lard  and  put  aside.  To  the 
remaining  mixture  add  the  well  beaten  egg,  sour  milk,  and 
soda.  Put  into  cake  tins  and  then  strew  the  three-fourths 
cupful  of  mixture  over  the  top  of  the  dough.  Bake  in  moder- 
ate oven. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


For  Sale  Cheap 
Two  Lots  on  Cramer  St.  EAST  MILWAUKEE 


H.  S.  FREIHUBE  CS,  CO. 
Real  Estate,  Loans  &  Insurance  Notary  Public 

441   13th  Avenue.  Milwaukee 

H.  G.   I  MS  El 

DEALER  IN 

STAPLE    AND    FANCY   GROCERIES 
FLOUR  AND  FEED 

Phone  Lake  3344-J  Cor.  Atwater  Rd.  and  Oakland  Avenue 


Tews  Lime  and  Cement 
Companjr 

032  NORTH  AVENUE 

DEALERS    IN 

Quality  Building  Materials 
SERVICE  ALWAYS 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Date  Cake— No.  1. 

1  c.  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

1  lb.  dates  >^  t.  salt 

3  t.  baking  powder  Enough  flour  to  mix  to  a  stiff 

3  eggs  dough. 

Bake  in  flat  tin;  slow  oven.  When  cold,  cut  into  small 
squares  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Will  keep  a  long  time 
when  placed  in  stone  jar. 

Date  Cake— No.  2. 

ly2  c.  sugar  Yz  t.  almond  extract 

yz  c.  butter  1  c.  milk 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  5^  lb.  chopped  dates 

j4  t.  salt  Enough  flour  to  slightly  stiffen 

1  t.  vanilla  2  t.  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  other  ingredients. 

Date  Torte. 

6  eggs,  beaten  well  3^  lb.  dates,  cut  fine 

1  c.  sifted  sugar  1^  t.  baking  powder 

y    lb.   grated   almonds,   not     2  powdered  Uneeda  Biscuits 
blanched 

Bake  in  loaf  or  in  layers  and  fill  with  custard. 

Delicate  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  y  t.  lemon    extract 

y2  c.  butter  >^  t.  vanilla 

y  c.  milk  2  c.  flour 

3  eggs  1  t.  baking  powder 

Bake  in  two  layers  and  frost.  Raisins  may  also  be  added 
and  the  cake  baked  in  loaf  form,  if  preferred. 

Devil's  Food. 
Devil's  Food  Cake— No.  1. 

3^   lb.  Baker's  bitter  chocolate  1  egg  yolk 
y  c.  sweet  milk  y  c.  sugar 

y  c.  butter  1  t.  vanilla 

1  c.  sugar  3  egg  whites,  beaten 

2  t.  baking  powder  2  c.  flour 

Boil  chocolate,  milk,  yolk  of  the  egg  and  the  sugar  to  a 
custard.  When  cool,  add  the  vanilla  and  other  ingredients. 
When  baked  in  a  loaf  add  one  cup  of  nuts. 


80  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

NORTH  END  GROCERY 

AND  MEAT  MARKET 

STAPLE  AND  FANCY  GROCERIES 

FRESH,   SMOKED    AND   SALTED    MEATS 

Phone  Lincoln  2472  1536-38  SECOND  STUEET 


LOUIS  SCHMITT 

PLUMBER  & 
GAS  FITTER 


Jobbing  promptly  attended  to 
Phone  Lake  675     74 1  OAKLAND  AVE. 


Louis  Schroeder&  Son 

For 

SHOES 

839  Third  St.  Milwaukee 


Edlefsen-Leidiger  Co. 

ROSES — VIOLETS  —  ORCHIDS 
WE  SPECIALIZE  IN 

TABLE  DECORATIONS 
COLONIAL  BOUQUETS 
AND  CORSAGES 


•PHONE   MAIN   450 

419     MILWAUKEE    STREET 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  81 

Devirs  Food  Cake— No.  2. 

1  c.  sugar  1  large  c.  flour 

>i  c.  butter  1  t.  soda 

1  egg  1  t.  vanilla 

%  c.  sour  milk  2  squares  chocolate 

Dissolve  chocolate  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water. 

Eggless  Cake. 

y2  c.  butter  1  t.  grated  nutmeg 

1^  c.  sugar  5^  t.  cinnamon 

1  c.  sour  milk  3  level  c.  sifted  flour 

1  c.  raisins,  chopped  fine  and  1  t.  soda 
well  floured" 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  sour  milk,  spices,  raisins, 
flour,  and  soda.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Frozen  Angel  Food. 

5  egg  whites  1  scant  c.  sugar 

1  c.  heavy  cream  1  t.  vanilla 

First  beat  whites  until  stiff,  adding  half  the  sugar,  beat- 
ing gradually.  Then  beat  cream,  adding  the  rest  of  the  sugar 
gradually.  Then  mix  eggs  and  cream  together  lightly.  Add 
flavoring  and  turn  into  loaf  cake  tin.  Have  ready  a  box  of 
snow  and  salt  mixed,  and  pack  the  mixture  into  this.  Be  sure 
you  have  a  tight  cover  on  the  tin  to  prevent  the  snow  and 
salt  from  falling  in.  Let  stand  five  hours  and  serve  as  brick 
ice  cream. 


Fruit  Cake. 

ji  lb.  butter 

2  lb.  currants 

1  lb.  brown  sugar 

1  lb.  dates 

5  eggs 

^  lb.  citron 

1  c.   sour  milk 

or 

butter 

milk 

y2  lb.  candied  cherries 

1  t.  soda 

y  lb.  candied  pineapple 

1  t.  cinnamon 

1  lb.  walnuts 

1  t.  nutmeg 

1  lb.  brazil  nuts 

1  t.  allspice 

2  wine  glasses  brandy 

2  lb.   raisins 

1  lb.  flour 

Bake  two 

hours. 

82         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 


Supply    your  wants   in    our   Store   where  each, 
purchase  insures  you  Quality  and  Dependability 

EXCLUSIVE  AND  DISTINCTIVE  STYLES 

Suits,  Coats,  Waists,  Dresses,  Furs, 
Millinery  and  Dress  Accessories 


Famous  throughout  the  Northwest  for  Silks 


109  WISCONSIN  STREET 


RESIDENCE  TELEPHONE 

394  Eastwood  Place,  East  Milwaukee  •  Lake  2534 


PLUMBING  AND 
GAS   FITTING 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


416  STATE  STREET  Phone  Grand  2448 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK.         83 

German  Coffee  Cake. 

Yi  c.  sugar  1/^  c.  butter 

1  c.  milk  Yz  t.  salt 

Heat  these  ingredients,  then  let  cool  while  you  dissolve 
one  cent  yeast  in  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water.  Beat  all  to- 
gether with  two  eggs  and  three  heaping  cups  of  flour.  Flavor 
with  grated  rind  of  lemon.    Set  in  evening. 

Good  Date  Cake. 

1  lb.  dates,  chopped  4  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  lb.  walnuts,  coarsely  chopped  4  T.  flour 
1  c.  powdered  sugar  1  t.  baking  powder 

Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Graham  Cake — No.  1. 
1  c.  sugar  17  graham  crackers 

Yi  c.  butter  13^  t.  baking  powder 

y^  c.  milk  3  T.  confectioner's    sugar 

Yi  c.  flour  1  t.  vanilla  I 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  2  T.  melted  butter 

Roll  graham  crackers  fine  and  put  through  flour  sieve. 
Mix  all  well.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  confectioner's  sugar, 
melted  butter  and  vanilla.  Add  a  little  milk  to  make  smooth 
enough  to  spread  on  top  layer.  Sprinkle  frosting  with  chopped 
nuts.     Bake  in  two  layers. 

Graham  Cake — No.  2. 

1  c.  sugar  2Y2  c.  graham  crackers,  rolled 
Y2  c.  butter  1  t.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  %  c.  milk  1  t.  vanilla 

Bake  in  tw^o  layers. 

Graham  Cracker  Cake — No.  3. 

lYi  T.  butter  \Y2  c.  flour 

lY  ^-  sugar  lY  c.  rolled  graham  crackers 

3  eggs  (16  to  18  crackers) 
1  c.  milk                                        2  t.  baking  powder 

Beat  dough  well  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. 

4  T.  sweet  cream  ^  c.  butter 
3  c.  confectioner's  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

Stir  creamy  and  put  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 


84  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


COMMUNITY  MARKET 

JULIUS    HEIMANN,    Proprietor 


DEALER  IN 

FRESH,  SALT  IV/T  C    AX  Q  HAMS,  BACON 
AND  SMOKED  IVl  EL  /A  1    kJ  AND  SAUSAGE 


POULTRY,  GAME  AND  OYSTERS 
IN  SEASON 


Corner   Prospect   and  Atwater  Road  Telephone  Lake  826 

PHONE  LAKE  2253  '      .       PHONE  LAKE  4136 

ALEX  H.  PFEIFFER 

GROCER 


II iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii nil 


TWO  STORES: 


245  Farwell  Ave.  1307  Prospect  Ave. 

Elast  Milwaukee 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK 


Graham  Cracker  Torte — No.  4. 

1  c.  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

3  eggs  (well  beaten)  2  t.  baking  powder 
1  c.  sweet  milk  27  graham  crackers 
Yi  c.  butter 

Bake  in  layers  and  spread  with  any  tart  jelly.  Put  to- 
gether with  whipped  cream. 

Gugelhopf. 

y2  lb.  butter  3^  pt.  milk 

Ya,  lb.  sugar  1  t.  salt 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  2c  yeast 

6  eggs  beaten  separately  1  lb.  flour 

Beat  Avell,  (herein  lies  the  success  of  the  cake.)  Grease 
tin  well  and  sprinkle  with  broken  almonds.  Put  dough  into 
tin  and  let  rise  until  it  reaches  the  top.    Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Hazelnut  Cake. 

y^  lb.  sugar  1^  c.  grated  hazelnuts 

7  eggs  7  T.  cracker  meal 
Rind  of  1  orange  1  t.  baking  powder 
Juice  of  ^  lemon                          2  T.  brandy 

Stir  sugar  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  cream.  Then  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Stir  very  little  and  slowly. 
Bake  in  loaf  about  fifty  minutes,  or  in  layers. 

Kaiser  Torte. 

y^  c.  butter  2  c.  and  2  T.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  3  eggs  2y2  t.  baking  powder 

Rind  of  a  lemon  1  c.  raisins 

y2  c.  milk  1  c.  walnuts  (cut  in  pieces) 

Bake  and  cover  with  butter  frosting. 

Lady-finger  or  Ice-Box  Cake. 

Yi  lb.  butter  3  eggs 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  Rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon 

4  doz.  lady-fingers  Juice  of  2  oranges 

Work  butter  with  hands  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
powdered  sugar  and  stir  again.  Add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time. 
Then  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  lemon  and  oranges.  Make  a 
fence  of  lady-fingers  by  separating  them,  putting  the  smooth 
side  toward  the  outside  of  the  spring  form.  Then  rhake  a 
layer  of  lady  fingers,  then  a  layer  of  dough,  and  so  on  until 
all  is  used. 


86         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Lady  Finger  Torte. 
6  eggs,  beaten  separately  6  lady-fingers 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  1  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  grated  almonds 

Measure  almonds  before  grating.  Use  seven  or  eight  lady 
fingers  if  they  are  small.  Dry  them  and  brown  in  oven.  Then 
roll  and  add  the  baking  powder.  Add  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  last.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. 
1  T.  cream  Powdered  sugar 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

Use  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  creamy  filling. 

Minute  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 
1^  c.  flour                                    2  eggs 

2  t.  baking  powder  3  T.  melted  butter 

Sift  the  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Break  the 
eggs  into  a  cup  and  fill  with  milk.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Add 
the  melted  butter.  Beat  all  together  with  an  egg  beater  until 
smooth.    Bake  in  quick  oven.    Good  for  layer  cake. 

Molasses  Cake. 

1  egg  1  t.  soda  in 

3^  c.  lard  3^  c.  boiling  water 

y2  c.  molasses  2^  c.  flour 

yi  c.  sugar  Flavor  to  taste 

^  c.  hickory  nuts 

Molasses  Nut  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  3  eggs 

y2  scant  c.  butter  4  T.  molasses 

1  c.  milk  1  t.  cloves 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  cinnamon 

1  c.  raisins  1  c.  walnuts 

2  t.  baking  powder 

Napf  Kuchen 

}i  c.  sugar  5  eggs 

}i  lb.  butter  Salt 

1  c.  milk  Rind  of  1  lemon 

1  lb.  flour  2c  yeast 
}i  c.  raisins 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  87 

Napfkuchen  with  Baking  Powder. 

Yi  c.  butter  1  c,  milk 

XYi  c.  sugar  3  c.  flour 

4  eggs  Yi  lb.  raisins 

2  t.  baking  powder  Lemon  rind 

Nut  Cake. 

Yi  lb.  butter  1  t.  cream  of  tartar,  in  flour 

1  c.  sugar  Y2  t.  soda,  in  milk 

3  ^%g  whites  ^  V/i  c.  flour 

Y2  c.  milk  •  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

Bake  in  shallow  pan  and  cut  into  squares. 

Orange  Cake. 
1  c.  powdered  sugar  1  t.  baking  powder 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately  Juice  of  1  orange 

1  c.  almonds  Rind  of  2  oranges 

1  c.  zwieback 

Ottelo  Torte. 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  1  c.  flour 

5  eggs,  beaten  separately  1  t.  baking  powder 
Bake  in  two  layers. 

Filling. 
1  c.  cream  or  milk  1  T.  cornstarch 

3  T.  sugar  1  ^^^ 

Flavor  to  taste.    When  cool,  add  the  beaten  white  of  the 
^Z%'     Use  chocolate  frosting. 

Poppy-seed  Cake. 

1  heaping  c.  sugar  XYi  c.  flour 

Y  c.  butter  2  t.  baking   powder 
3  eggs  Y2  c.  poppy-seed 

Y  c.  milk 

Bake  in  three  layers  and  fill  with  custard  filling.      Frost 
with  the  following: 

Frosting. 

1  c.  confectioner's  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

1  T.  butter  Vanilla 

Stir  smooth,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  spread  on  cake. 


88 


THE    EAST    MILAYAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


»^s)K^x,j^c^^>: 


CHAS.  MUNKWITZ 


DEALER  IN  ALL  KINDS  OF 

Fancy  Cut  Meats 

■■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


Hotel,  Restaurant  and  Family  Trade 
A  Specialty 


Telephones-375Main  43,     MILWAUKEE,    ST.    Milwaukee 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  89 


Potato  Cake— No.  1. 

2  c.  sugar  '  3^  c.  milk 

1  c.  butter  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  chopped  almonds  4  eggs 

1  c.  grated  potatoes  2  t.  baking  powder 

Vanilla  or  lemon  flavor  1  cake  grated  chocolate 

Potato  Cake  —No.  2. 

1  c  butter  4  eggs 

1  c.  mashed  potatoes  Vs  c.  chocolate 

Yz  c.  milk  Vz  t.  allspice 

Yz  t.  cloves  Y2  t.  cinnamon 

2Y2  c.  flour  4  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  vanilla  1  c.  nut  meats 

2  c.  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten 
lightly.  Add  in  order,  the  potatoes,  chocolate,  milk,  spices, 
vanilla,  nuts,  and  the  baking  powder  sifted  into  the  flour. 
Lastly  add  the  beaten  ^^^  whites.   Bake  either  in  loaf  or  layer. 

Puff  Paste  Cake. 

2  large  c.  flour  1  ^gg 

1  c.  butter  1  whole  eggshell  of  cold  water 

Prepare  the  above  mixture  in  the  evening,  keeping  it  in 
a  cool  place.  The  next  morning  divide  into  six  parts,  roll 
out  into  thin  sheets,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  jelly  cake 
tins  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold,  cover  first  sheet  with 
custard  filling,  the  second  with  red  currant  jelley  and  continue 
alternating  until  the  six  sheets  have  been  used,  placing  small 
dots  of  the  jelly  on  the  upper  sheet. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake. 
1  ^gg  1  c.  milk  (scant) 

1  c.  sugar  (scant)  Salt 

1  T.  butter  Lemon 
\Ya  c.  flour                                    Vanilla 

2  t.  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  tg%  and  milk.  Sift  flour, 
salt,  and  baking  powder  together  and  put  in  cinnamon.  Sugar 
and  place  almonds  on  the  top  before  baking. 


90         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Railroad  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 
4  T.  melted  butter  2  c.  flour 

2  eggs  Flavor  to  taste 
3^  c.  sweet  milk 

Put  all  together,  stir  five  minutes  and  bake  in  loaf  or 
layers. 

Raisin  Cake. 

1  egg  1  t.  soda 

1  c.  sugar  2  c.  flour 

^  c.  butter  (scant)  ^  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  chopped  raisins  3^  c.  chopped  walnuts 

1  c.  boiling  water 

Dissolve  soda  in  boiling  water  and  pour  over  raisins.  Let 
cool  before  adding  to  others.  Sift  flour  three  times  with 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  boiled 
frosting. 

Ryebread  Torte. 

12  egg  yolks  6  o.  rye  bread  crumbs 

10  egg  whites  Rind  of  1  lemon 

}i  lb.  sugar  1  t.  cinnamon 

6  oz.  almonds  (5  oz.  sweet  3^  t.  cloves 
and  1  oz.  bitter) 

Beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  sugar  and  beat  five  minutes 
longer.  Beat  yolks  and  fold  into  whites.  Fold  in  bread 
crumbs,  add  the  lemon  rind  and  the  spices. 

Sand  Torte. 

1  lb.  butter  8  eggs 

1  lb.  powder  sugar  Rind  of  1  lemon 

1  box  cornstarch 

Melt  butter  and  add  sugar.  Beat  until  thick.  Stir  in  one 
egg  yolk  and  a  little  cornstarch  at  a  time  until  all  is  used. 
Then  add  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  and  grated  lemon  rind.  Beat 
all  one  hour.  Bake  one  and  a  quarter  hours  in  a  slow  oven, 
turning  off  heat  entirely  the  last  one  quarter  of  an  hour. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK.  91 


Simple  Sponge  Cake. 

4  eggs,  well  beaten  2  c.  flour 

2  c.  sugar,  beat  together  1  c.  boiling  water 

Pinch  of  salt  Lemon  or  vanilla 

Beat  as  each  ingredient  is  added.  Lastly  add  the  water, 
slowly,  while  beating.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake 
slowly  one-half  hour. 

Snow  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  1^  c.  flour 

2  T.  butter  1^^  t.  baking  powder 

Yi  c.  water  3  tg^  whites      Flavor  to  taste 

Sour  Milk  Apple  Cake. 

yi  c.  butter  Yi  t.  soda 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  sour  milk 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  About  2  c.  flour 
A  little  cinnamon 

Dissolve  soda  in  the  sour  milk.  Use  enough  flour  to  make 
a  thin  batter.  Spread  in  long  tin  and  cover  with  sliced  apples. 
Sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  apples.  Serve  hot  as  dessert, 
using  cream,  if  preferred. 

Spice  Cake. 

1  c.  sugar  1  t.  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little 

1  T.  butter  vinegar 

1  ^g%  Yi  t.  cloves 

Yi  c.  raisins  Little  nutmeg 

1%  to  2  c.  flour  Little  chocolate,  melted 

Lemon  rind     1  c.  sour  milk      1  t.  vanilla 

Sponge  Cake. 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately  1  scant  c.  flour. 

1  c.  sugar  3  T.  cold  water 

\Yi  t.  cornstarch  1  level  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  lemon  extract  1/4  t.  salt 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  until  thick  and  graduall}'  add 
the  sugar.  Beat  two  minutes  and  add  the  water.  Sift  to- 
gether thoroughly  the  cornstarch,  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt,  and  add  the  first  mixture,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiflF,  and  the  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  a  buttered  angel-cake 
pan,  forty-five  minutes,  or  shallow  cake  pan  thirty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


92  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Prompt   and   Efficient  Service 

Is    one   of  the  features   that 
has  built  up  our  two  stores 

112  Wisconsin  Street  and  328  Grove  Street 

And  will  surely  build   up  our  newly  opened   and  well 

equipped   store  in  EAST  MILWAUKEE 

Corner  Downer  and  Atwater 

THE  WRIGHT  DRUG  CO. 

We  call  your  attention  to  our  OLIVE  OIL.    The  purest 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  with  a  rich  flavor  makes  the  most 

delicious  of  salads  and  food  dressings 

A  Satisfied  Customer  Is  Our  Best  Advertisement— And  It  Is  Our 
Aim  To  Satisfy  All 


50  Years  Experience  in  Watch  Repairing 

THEO.  SCHELLE 

Watchmaker,  Jeweler 
and  Optician 

STORE :  '  RESIDENCE : 

Phone  Kilbourn  351 1-R  .  Phone  Lake  3352-R 

Cor.  27th  and  Center  Streets  1095  Maryland  Avenue 


FEMALE  HELP  — 

The  problem  of  securing  a  good  maid,  cook,  second 
girl,  etc.  can  be  easily  solved  by  placing  a  small  classi- 
fied advertisement  in  the  female  column  of  the 

GERMANIA-HEROLD 

Telephone  Grand  500 


THE    I]AST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Sunshine  Cake — No.  1. 

6  large  eggs  1  t.  vanilla 

1  c.  granulated  sugar  54  t.  cream  of  tartar 

1  c.  flour 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  dry,  then  add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  the  cream  of  tartar.  Add  the  sugar  and  beat  five 
minutes  longer.  Beat  yolks  until  lemon  color  and  fold  into 
whites.  Sift  the  flour  four  times  and  fold  in  a  little  at  a  time. 
Put  into  a  moderate  oven,  turn  off  one  burner  after  cake  has 
been  in  the  oven  twenty  minutes.  Continue  baking  thirty 
minutes  longer. 

Sunshine  Cake — No.  2. 

7  egg  whites  %  c.  flour 

5  egg  yolks  Vs  t.  cream  of  tartar 

1  c.  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  whites  and  while  beating  add  cream  of  tartar.  Con- 
tinue beating  until  very  stiff.  Stir  in  sugar  lightly,  next  the 
beaten  yolks  and  lastly,  salt  and  flour. 

Velvet  Sponge  Cake. 

2  c.  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

6  eggs  2y2  c.  flour 

1  c.  boiling  water  2  t.  baking  powder 

Beat  sugar  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  fifteen  minutes.  Stir 
in  boiling  water,  salt,  flour,  baking  powder,  three  egg  whites 
and  flavor.  Use  remaining  egg  whites  for  frosting.  Bake 
in  loaf  in  slow  oven. 

Walnut  Torte. 

9  eggs  1  c.  crackers,  rolled 

1  c.  kigar  1  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  walnuts,  broken  Rind  and  little  juice  of  1  lemon 

Beat  yolks  of  egg^  and  sugar  one-half  hour,  add  other 
ingredients.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  froth  and  fold  in.  Bake 
in  two  layers.     Use  boiled  custard  for  filling. 


94         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Hilbert  &  Baerwald  Co. 

GENERAL 
INSURANCE 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
Telephone  Main  3891  86-88  MICHIGAN  ST. 

The  Bon  Bon  Company 

CANDIES 
FLOWERS 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

Telephone  Grand   1  769  228   GRAND   AVE. 


We  have  engaged  the  services  of  James  Chacona  who  has  established  a  reputation 
as  maker  of  those  delicious  "MELT  IN  YOUR  MOUTH"  Bon  Bons,  that  can  be 
made  only  by  hand  and  with  the  highest  quality  materials. 

This  high  grade  candy  costs  no  more  than  others  of  inferior  grade. 

The  prompt  filling  of  Telephone  Orders  our  specialty. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  95 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 

Boiled  Icing. 
1  c.  sugar  1  c.  milk 

Boil  until  mixture  threads. 

Caramel  Frosting. 

^  c.  brown  or  maple  sugar      ^  c.  milk  or  cream 
^  c.  butter 

Boil  like  candy.  When  it  strings,  beat  and  spread  on 
cake,  adding  vanilla. 

Frosting. 

1  c.  confectioner's  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

1  T.  butter  Chocolate 

Use  enough  chocolate  to  make  a  nice  brown  cream. 

Fruit  Frosting. 

2  egg  whites  2  T.  lemon  juice 

1  grated  apple  %  c.  powdered  sugar 

Put  all  in  large  bowl  and  beat  with  Dover  tgg  beater  until 
stiff.  Fruit  may  be  used,  such  as  berries,  pineapple,  etc., 
instead  of  apple,  or  frosting  may  be  colored  with  fruit  paste. 

Fudge  Frosting. 

1  c.  sugar  2  T.  butter 
%  c.  milk  1  t.  vanilla 

2  squares  of  chocolate 

Boil  sugar,  milk,  and  chocolate  for  four  minutes.  Add 
the  butter  and  cook  four  minutes  longer.  Add. the  vanilla  and 
beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

Strawberry  Frosting. 

White  of  1  egg  5  T.  canned  strawberries 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  or  1  c.  mashed  strawberries 

To  the  white  of  one  egg,  add  the  powdered  sugar,  to  which 
add  the  strawberries.  Beat  all  together  with  a  wire  egg  beater 
for  one-half  hour.  The  white  of  the  egg  must  not  be  beaten 
first,  but  beaten  with  the  cup  of  sugar. 


90         THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK. 

Apple  and  Lemon  Filling. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  1  large,  sour  apple,  grated 

lemon  1  c.  sugar 

Boil  together  five  minutes  and  let  it  cool.  It  is  then  ready 
for  use. 

Butternut  Filling. 

1  c.  butternut  meats,  chopped  2  eggs 
fine  2  T.  sugar 

1  c.  sour  cream 

Mix  thoroughly  and  spread  between  layers  of  cake. 

Walnut  Filling. 

5^  c.  milk  3^  lb.  walnuts,  chopped 

2  c.  sugar 

Boil  milk  and  sugar  steadily  for  five  minutes,  take  from 
fire  and  add  nuts.     Beat  until  it  spreads. 

Filling. 

}i  c.  sugar  3  egg  yolks 

1  heaping  T.  flour  Vanilla 

1  c.  milk 

Boil  until  thick.    Cool  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Butter  Filling. 

13^   c.  confectioner's   sugar        1  T.  cream 
1  T.  butter  1  egg  yolk 

1  t.  vanilla 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  vanilla,  cream  and 
the  yolk  of  the  egg.  Beat  until  smooth  and  spread  between 
and  on  top  of  cake.  Sprinkle  finely  chopped  almonds  on  top. 
if  desired. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS. 

Almond  Cookies. 

Yi  lb.  butter  4  eggs 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  1  t.  cinnamon 

Yi.  cake  sweet  chocolate,  grated  1  t.  cloves 
1  c.  almonds,  chopped  fine         2  c.  flour 
3  t.  baking  powder 

Bake  in  two  coflfee  cake  tins  in  slow  oven.  Frost  with 
white  boiled  frosting.  When  cold,  cut  in  pieces  about  one 
inch  wide  and  three  inches  long. 

Almond  Cookies^No.  2. 

1/2  lb.  butter                                2  eggs 

Yz  lb.  sugar                                  1  c.  blanched  almonds,  chopped 

134  lb.  flour  or  half  cornstarch  fine 

1  large  t.  baking  powder. 

Mix  with  a  little  milk  into  a  soft  dough  to  roll  out. 

Almond  Cookies — No.  3. 

1  c.  white  sugar  2  c.  butter 

1  c.  brown  sugar  4  scant  c.  flour 

1  c.  blanched  almonds  1  dessert  spoon  soda 

3  eggs  1  t.  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  drop  the  eggs  in 
separately.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  one  teaspoon  warm  water 
and  add  cinnamon.  Then  add  the  chopped  almonds  and  flour 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Let  stand  over  night  in  a  cold  place. 
Cut  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  a  delicate  brown.  These  will 
keep  a  long  time. 

Almond  Kisses. 

4  ^^^  whites,  beaten  stifif  ^  lb.  chopped  almonds 
1  lb.  confectioner's  sugar  1  t.  cinnamon 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar,  add  almonds  and  cinnamon.  Drop 
on  well  buttered  tins  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


98  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Compliments   of  BADGER   NAIL    CO. 


THE  EAST  MILWAUKEE  COOK  BOOK.  00 

Almond  Croquettes. 

2  eggs.  y2  lb.  flour 

Yi  t.  salt  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Yi  lb.  powdered  sugar  >^  c.  grated  chocolate 

Yi  lb.  shelled  almonds 

Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light.  Add  the  salt  and  sugar 
and  beat  until  very  foamy.  Grind  the  almonds  very  fine  and 
add  to  the  flour.  Add  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  eggs, 
chocolate.  Then  add  sugar  to  the  flour  and  almonds  to  the 
first  mixture.  Mix  until  smooth.  Flour  board  slightly,  taking 
little  dough  on  the  board.  Roll  very  thin.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  on  top.  Cut  into  strips  one  and  one-half  inches  wide. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  golden  brown. 

Anise  Cookies. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  Pinch  of  salt 

13^  c.  sugar  Rind  and  juice  of  small  lemon 

13^  to  2  c.  flour  1  t.  anise  seed 

1  t.  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar.  Drop  on  well  buttered  tins  and  bake 
until  light  brown. 

Banana  Fritters. 

8  bananas  Flour 

1  c.  flour  1  T.  olive  oil 

2  eggs  1  t.  baking  powder 
%  c.  cold  water 

Cut  the  bananas  into  three  pieces.  Make  a  batter  of  the 
flour,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  cold  water 
and  add  this  gradually  to  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add 
the  olive  oil,  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  baking 
powder.  Cover  the  banana  with  this  paste  and  drop  them  into 
hot  fat.  When  a  bright  golden  color,  take  out  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar.  For  a  sauce,  use  currant  jelly,  thinned 
with  water. 


Cocoanut  Cookies. 

1  c.  butter 

2  c.  flour 
1  c.  sugar 
1  ^gg 

1  c.  grated  cocoanut 

1  c.  milk 

1  t.  baking  powder 

100  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

Cocoanut  Cookies. 

5  eggs  2  t.  baking  powder 

2  c.  sugar  Yi  lb.  cocoanut 

3  c.  flour 

Beat  eggs  to  a  cream.  Mix  well  and  drop  from  teaspoon 
about  two  inches  apart  into  buttered  tins. 

Cocoanut  Kisses. 
2  c.  cocoanut  2  level  T.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  2  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs 

Drop  on  butter  pans  and  bake. 

Cocoa  Kisses. 

2  egg  whites  1>4  c.  sugar 

2  T.  cocoa  %  t.  cinnamon 

^4  lb.  almonds,  chopped  and 
blanched 

Beat  the  whites  until  stiff  and  gradually  add  two-thirds 
of  the  sugar.  Continue  beating  until  mixture  will  hold  its 
shape.  Fold  in  the  remaining  sugar.  Drop  mixture  from  tip 
of  spoon  in  small  piles  one-half  inch  apart,  on  bottom  o^ 
greased  tins.  Bake  a  very  light  brown  fiftv  minutes  in  slow 
oven,  with  decreasing  heat,  or  until  dry.  When  done,  they 
do  not  cling  to  pan. 

Doughnuts. 

1  T.  butter  >4  c.  sour  milk 

1  pinch  salt  >4  t.  soda 

^  c.  sugar  Flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  ^gg.  Dissolve  soda  in 
milk  and  add  flour.     Fry  in  deep  lard. 

Fruit  Cookies. 

1  c    butler  ''   t.  cinn  im^n 

1^  c.  sugar  y^  t.  cl')vcs 

1  c.  «;eeded  raisins  ]A,  t.  nutnug 

1  c.  \v'alnats  2  eggs 

2  t.  baking  powder  2  T.  milk 
2y2  c.  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  other  ingredients.  Roll 
and  bake. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  101 


Cornflake  Cookies. 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  well 
1  c.  sugar  3  c.  cornflakes 

Drop  with  spoon  on  butter  pans  and  bake. 

Good  Plain  Cookies. 
3  T.  butter  1  egg 

3  T.  lard  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 

Yz  t.  salt  %  c.  milk  2  t.  vanilla  , ,; 

Graham  Cookies. 

2y2  c.  brown  sugar  1  t.  soda 

}i  c.  shortening  1  t.  ginger 

1  tgg  1  c.  white  flour 

34  c.  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk   1  c.  hickory  nuts 

Add  graham  flour  enough  to  roll  easily.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar. 

Hermits. 

iy2  c.  brown  sugar  1  t.  cloves 

3  eggs  1  t.  cinnamon 

1  c.  chopped  nuts  1  t.  soda,  dissolved  in 

1  c.  chopped  raisins  1  T.  molasses 

1  c.  chopped  dates  3  c.  flour 

Make  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Put  separately,  one 
inch  apart,  into  greased  tins.     Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Hominy  Fritters. 

1  c.  cold,  boiled  hominy  1  or  2  eggs 

y2   c.   milk  1   ssp.  salt 

1  c.  flour  1  t.  baking  powder 

Mix  hominy  with  milk.  Add  flour,  eggs,  salt  and  baking 
powder  stirred  into  a  little  flour.  Fry  in  deep  lard.  Drop 
from  a  spoon  and  fry  until  a  good  brown.  Have  enough  boil- 
ing lard  to  float  the  fritters.     Very  good  with  syrup. 

Lady  Fingers. 

1  c.  sugar  y  c.  milk 

^  c.  butter  1  pt.  flour 

1  egg  1  t.  cream  of  tartar 

1  t.  vanilla  5^  t.  soda 

Cut  into  strips,  cover  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 


102  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Compliments  of  FULDNER  CONSTRUCTION  CO. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  103 

Luft. 

2  c.  flour  1  egg 
Butter,  size  of  an  egg                Little  whiskey 

Add  milk  enough  to  make  batter  to  consistency  of  noodle 
dough.  Roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  strips  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  wide  and  about  fifteen  inches  long.  Turn  twice  around 
the  hand  and  fasten  edges.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until  delicately 
brown. 

Macaroons. 
4  eggs  1  t.  cloves 

1  lb.  sugar  1  t.  cinnamon 

1  lb.  flour  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  cake  sweet  chocolate  10c  nut  meats 

5c  cocoanut 

Oatmeal  Cookies — No.  1. 
4  c.  oatmeal  1  c.  lard 

1  c.  molasses  1  t.  cinnamon 

3y2  c.  flour  2  t.  soda 

1  c.  hot  water        1  c.  sugar     A  little  salt 

Drop  in  tins  about  a  tablespoonful  to  a  cookie. 

Oatmeal  Cookies — No.  2. 
1  c.  sugar  1  t.  cinnamon 

1  c.  butter  1  large  c.  Quaker  Oats  (not 

3  eggs  cooked) 
y2  c.  sour  milk                             1  c.  flour 

1  c.  chopped  walnut  meats       1  c.  chopped  raisins 
y2  t.  soda 

Drop  from  a  spoon. 

Oatmeal  Cookies — No.  3. 

^  c.  butter  2  eggs 

1  c.  sugar  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  raisins,  chopped  2  c.  dry,  uncooked  oatmeal 

H  t.  salt  3  T.  milk 

Rock  Cookies — No.  1. 

iy2   c.   sugar  1  t.  baking  soda 

1  scant  c.  butter  1  t.  cinnamon 

ly  c.  seeded,  chopped  raisins  3  c.  flour 
3  eggs         2  T.  sweet  milk      1  c.  chopped  walnuts 
Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  tin  and  bake. 


104  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

Rock  Cookies — No.  2. 

V/i  c.  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  scant  c.  butter  1  c.  raisins 

3  eggs  (well  beaten)  1  c.  walnuts,  chopped  fine 

1  t.  cinnamon  ^  c.  water 

2  c.  flour  2  t.  baking  powder 

Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 


Rose  Doughnuts. 

4  c.  flour 

1  c.  sweet  milk 

1  c.  sugar 

2  t.  baking  powder 
1  t.  vanilla 

2  eggs 

4  T.  melted  lard 

Pinch  of  salt 

Fry  in  a  mixture  of  boiling  lard  and  butter. 

Scottish  Crisps. 
1  tgg  1  c.  rolled  oats 

y2  c.  sugar  %  t.  salt 

1  T.  melted  butter  %  t.  vanilla 

Beat  the  ^gg  until  light.  Add  gradually  sugar,  butter, 
oats,  salt,  and  vanilla.  Drop  mixture  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a 
thoroughly  greased  pan,  one  inch  apart.  Spread  into  shape 
with  a  cake  knife,  dipped  into  cold  water.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  delicately  browned.  Remove  from  pan 
with  a  cake  knife  as  soon  as  taken  from  oven.  Chocolate  may 
be  used.  A  raisin,  also,  may  be  placed  on  top  of  each  before 
baking. 

Sugar  Hats. 

1  c.  butter  1  lb.  sugar 

2  T.  lard  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
4  eggs,  yolks  3^  c.  milk 

y2  lb.  chopped  or  ground  1  t.  baking  powder 

almonds 

Roll  thin  and  on  each  cookie  place  a  little  teaspoonful  of 
the  following  batter:  Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  with  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar  and  chopped  almonds. 

Thimble  Balls. 
Roll  out  a  sheet  of  noodle  dough  and  double  it.    Take  a 
thimble  and  cut  out  dough.    Have  boiling  fat  ready  and  drop 
dumplings  in.     Fry  until  they  swell  into  brown  balls.    Serve 
in  soup. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  105 

Vanilla  Horns. 

Yi.  lb.  butter  >^  lb.  flour 

Yi  lb.  sugar  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

^  lb.  unpeeled  grated  Yz  lb.  powdered  sugar 

almonds  2  or  3  t.  vanilla 

Cut  out,  bake  to  a  light  brown  and  roll,  immediately  after 
baking  in  a  mixture  of  powdered  sugar  and  vanilla. 


Walnut  Rocks. 

2  c.  brown  sugar 

3  eggs,  well  beaten 
Yz  c.  butter 

1  t.  vanilla 

1  t.  baking  powder 

2  c.  flour 

1  t.  cinnamon 
Pinch  of  salt 

1  c.  raisins 
1  c.  walnuts 

White  Peppernuts. 

1  lb.  flour                                      Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
1  lb.  granulated  sugar                1  t.  white  pepper 
4  eggs                                              1  T.  shortening 
3  oz.  citron                                    Y^  c.  sweet  almonds 
1  t.  baking  powder 

Sift  the  sugar  well.  Stir  eggs,  sugar,  shortening,  and 
spices  with  baking  powder.  Work  well  into  quantity  of  flour 
given,  then  form  into  marbles.     Bake  slowly  in  greased  tin. 


106  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Compliments   of  CHAS.  J.    MUNKWITZ 


THE    EAST    JIILWAUKEE    COOIv    BOOK.  ICi 


DESSERTS. 

Ambrosia. 

Spread  in  a  glass  dish,  a  layer  of  grated  cocoanut  and* 
sugar,  a  layer  of  peeled  oranges,  sliced,  and  so  on,  until  the 
dish  is  filled,  having  the  top  layer  of  cocoanut.     A  generous 
allowance  of  sugar  to  be  used,  say  one  and  one-fourth  pounds 
to  one  dozen  juicy  oranges. 

Bavarian  Cream. 

^  pkg.  gelatine  5  eggs 

1  qt.  milk  1  c.  sugar 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  milk  until  soft.  Then  boil  and 
add  the  egg  yolks  and  the  sugar.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
beaten  whites.    Pour  into  mold. 

Compote. 

Put  apricots  in  a  fruit  dish  and  arrange  boiled  rice  around 
the  edges.  Pour  the  syrup  of  the  apricots,  which  has  been 
boiled  down  over  the  apricots. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream. 

1  qt.  milk  1  qt.  cream 

6  egg  yolks  Sugar  to  taste 

1  c.  sugar  Flavoring 

Cook  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar  like  custard.  When  cold,  add 
cream  and  flavoring.     More  sugar  if  needed.     Freeze. 

Macaroon  Cream. 

1  T.  granulated  gelatine  3  eggs 

%  c.  cold  water  Vs  c.  sugar 

2  c.  scalded  milk  %  t.  salt 
%  c.  powdered  macaroons 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water.  Make  a  custard 
with  the  egg  yolks,  sugar,  salt,  and  milk,  and  pour  hot  over 
softened  gelatine.  When  gelatine  is  dissolved,  strain  into  a 
pan.  Set  in  ice  water,  and  add  macaroons.  Stir  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stifif.     Mold,  chill,  and  serve  garnished  with  macaroons. 


108  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Orange  Mousse. 

Juice  of  4  oranges  Yi  pkg.  Knox's  gelatine 

Rind  of  1  orange  1  pt.  whipping  cream 

2  c.  sugar  >^  c.  powdered  sugar 

J^  c.  chopped  nuts  Vanilla 

Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  a  little  water,  add  to  juice. 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  one-fourth  cup  cold  water,  add  one-third 
cup  hot  water,  stir,  add  to  juice,  strain,  and  put  into  mold. 
Beat  whipping  cream  very  stiff,  add  powdered  sugar,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  if  desired.  Add  chopped  nuts,  put  on  top  of 
juice,  cover  with  waxed  paper,  close  mold,  and  pack  in  ice 
to  freeze. 

Orange  Delight. 

6  oranges  1  c.  pineapple 

Slice  the  oranges.  Mix  with  pineapple,  or  other  suitable 
fruit.  Sprinkle  generously  with  sugar  and  cover  with  whipped 
cream. 

Pineapple  Mousse. 

2  T.  Knox  gelatine  3  lemons 

1  can  sliced  pineapples  3  c.  cream 

1^  c.  sugar  12  T.  water 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water  five  minutes.  Heat  the  pine- 
apple, cut  into  pieces  and  add  the  sugar.  Pour  over  gelatine 
and  stir  Avell  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Whip  the  cream  and 
add  to  mixture.  Lastly  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons.  Pour 
into  mold.    Use  next  day,  giving  it  time  to  harden. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  109 


SAUCES. 

Apricot  Sauce. 

1  c.   apricot  juice  1    t.  cornstarch  or  flour 
y2  c.  sugar 

Boil  all  together  and  strain.  Use  any  kind  of  fruit  juice 
in  the  same  manner. 

Bechamel  Sauce. 

3   T.   butter  Yi  pt.  well  seasoned  stock 

3  level  T.  flour  Parsley 

4  eggs   (yolks)  >^  c  cream 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  flour.  Cook  until  dry,  not 
yellow.  Add  the  stock  and  put  in  a  little  parsley  and  simmer 
twenty  minutes.  Add  the  cream  in  which  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  have  been  beaten. 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce. 

i    can  of  French  mushroomfi   4  T.   butter 

2  c.    stock  Salt 

2  T.   flour  Pepper 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  flour.  Stir  until  a  dark  brown. 
Then  add  stock  gradually.  When  this  boils,  add  the  liquid 
from  the  mushrooms.  Season  and  simmer  twenty  minutes. 
Skim  off  any  fat  that  may  rise  to  the  top.  Add  the  mush- 
rooms and  simmer  five  minutes  longer.  Too  much  cooking 
toughens  the  mushrooms.  This  sauce  may  be  served  with 
any  kind  of  roast  or  broiled  meat.  It  is  especially  good  with 
beefsteaks. 

Epicurean  Sauce. 

1  T.    tarragon  vinegar  3/2  c.  heavy  cream 

2  T.   grated   horse-radish  Few  grains  cayenne  pepper 
1    t.    English  mustard  3   t.   mayonnaise  dressing 
Yi   t.   salt 

Mix  the  vinegar,  horse-radish,  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne, 
add  the  cream,  beaten  stiff,  and  the  mayonnaise  dressing. 


110  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Compliments  of  CHAS.  J.   MUNKWITZ 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  Ill 

Sauce  for  Cauliflower. 

Boil  cauliflower  in  salted  water  until  done  and  pour  over 
it  the  following:  Stir  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  and  a 
little  flour  in  some  cold  meat  stock.  Add  a  little  of  the  water 
in  which  cauliflower  was  cooked,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice.  Boil  in  double  boiler  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour 
over  the  cauliflower.  A  little  grated  nutmeg  may  be  added, 
if  desired. 

Sauce  for  Meat  Pudding. 

1    T.   butter  Salt 

Cream  Pepper 
1   T.   flour 

Melt  butter  and  add  flour  and  enough  cream  to  make 

creamy  sauce.  Add  some  gravy  if  you  have  it.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Pour  all  over  pudding.  Bake  one  and  one- 
half  hour. 

Sauce  for  Steamed  Salmon. 

1    c.   milk  1    T.   butter 

1    T.   cornstarch  Pepper 

Dash  of  red  pepper  Salt 

1   T.   catsup  Pinch  of  mace 

1    well  beaten  egg 

Heat  milk  to  a  boiling  point  and  thicken  with  cornstarch. 
Add  the  liquid  of  the  salmon,  pepper,  salt,  butter,  mace,  red 
pepper  and  catsup.     Add  the  well  beaten  egg  last. 

Sauce. 

1    c.    sugar  1    egg,  well  beaten 

1    c.   milk  Flavor,  to  taste 

Pour  sugar  and  egg  into  milk  when  boiling.  Stir  con- 
stantly.    Flavor  to  taste.     Good. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

%  c.  tomato  juice  1    T.   relish 

Little  onion,  cut  fine 

Add  the  onion  and  the  relish  to  the  tomato  juice  and  cook 
until  mostly  all  the  juice  is  evaporated. 


112  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

Tartar  Sauce  for  Broiled  Fish. 
1   T.   vinegar  1   T.   Worcestershire   sauce 

1   t.   lemon  juice  %  c.  butter 

1    ssp.  salt 

Mix  the  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  Worchestershire 
sauce  in  a  small  bowl  and  heat  over  hot  water.  Brown  the 
butter  and  strain  into  the  other  mixture. 

Wine  Sauce. 

1    c.   boiling  water  1    egg 

1   T.   cornstarch  1    ssp.  grated  nutmeg 

34  c.  butter  3^  c.  wine 

1  c.   powdered  sugar 

Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  cold  water  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  water.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream  and  add  well  beaten  egg  and  the  nutmeg.  When  the 
cornstarch  has  cooked  ten  minutes,  add  wine,  and  pour  the 
whole  over  sugar  and  butter,  stirring  until  well  mixed. 

White  Sauce. 

2  T.  butter.  1  c.  milk. 
2  T.  flour.  %  t.  salt 
Few  grains  of  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  stir  until  thoroughly  blended.  Add 
milk,  cook  until  smooth.     Season. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  113 

JELLY  AND   PRESERVES. 

How  to  Preserve  a  Husband. 

Be  careful  in  your  selection,  do  not  choose  too  young-  and 
take  only  such  as  have  been  reared  in  a  good,  moral  atmo- 
sphere. When  once  decided  upon  and  selected,  let  that  part 
remain  forever  settled,  and  give  your  entire  thought  to  prep- 
aration for  domestic  use.  Some  insist  on  keeping  them  in  a 
pickle,  while  others  are  constantly  getting  into  hot  water. 
Even  poor  varieties  may  be  made  sweet,  tender,  and  good  by 
garnishing  them  with  patience,  well  sweetened  by  smiles,  and 
flavored  with  kisses  to  taste,  then  wrap  well  in  a  mantle 
of  charity,  keep  warm  with  a  steady  fire  of  domestic  devotion, 
and  serve  with  peaches  and  cream.  When  thus  preserved, 
they  will  keep  for  years. 

Crabapple  Jelly. 

Wash  crabapples  and  cut  in  halves.  Put  in  a  kettle  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  thoroughly  and  put 
in  a  jelly  bag  and  let  drip.  For  every  cup  of  juice  add  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  let  boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Two  or  three 
rose  geranium  leaves  may  be  added.  Pour  into  glasses  and 
when  cold,  cover  the  top  with  melted  paraffin. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 

4  c.  cranberries  2  c.  sugar 

1  c.  boiled  water 

Pick  over  and  wash.  Cook  slowly  in  boiling  water  twenty 
minutes  or  until  soft.  Rub  through  sieve,  add  sugar  and  stir. 
Cook  about  five  minutes  or  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  wet 
moulds.     Serve  with  meat. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 

1  qt.  cranberries  2  c.  sugar 

1  pt.  water 

Simmer  cranberries  and  water  until  they  burst.  Add 
sugar  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Force  through  sieve  into  a 
mould. 


114  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE   COOK    BOOK. 


Compliments  of  EDW.  H.  MUNKWITZ  CO. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  115 

Currant  Jelly. 

Wash  the  currants  and  put  them  into  a  kettle  over  a  very 
slow  fire  with  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Cool  and  strain 
through  a  thin  bag.  For  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound 
sugar.  Let  boil  twenty  minutes.  When  cool  pour  paraffin 
over  top. 

Pineapple  Preserves. 

Pare  and  grate  the  fruit,  and  make  a  syrup  of  one-half 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  together  about 
ten  minutes,  fill  into  jars  and  seal  tight.  Delicious  to  serve 
with  ice  cream,  charlotte  russe  or  blanc  mange. 

Plum  Conserve. 

1  sq.  basket  blue  plums  1  lb.  seedless  raisins 

4  oranges  About  5  lb.  sugar 
Grated  rind  of  2  oranges  3^  lb.  broken  walnuts 

Boil  plums,  oranges,  raisins  and  the  grated  rind  of  the 
oranges  with  an  equal  amount  of  sugar  (about  five  pounds). 
Let  fruit  boil  to  pieces  before  adding  sugar.  Watch  closely, 
stirring  it,  as  it  burns  easily.  Just  before  putting  into  glasses 
add  the  broken  walnuts. 

Red  Raspberries.  ~ 

Mash  the  berries  and  add  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar 
for  every  pound  of  fruit.  Mix  thoroughly  and  let  stand  twelve 
hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Seal  in  glass  cans  without  heat- 
ing. They  will  keep  for  a  year  or  more  and  retain  their  flavor 
much  better  than  when  cooked.  If  they  should  appear  to  be 
fermenting,  do  not  be  alarmed. 

Spiced  Gooseberries. 

5  lbs.  green  gooseberries  Cinnamon 
4  lb.  sugar  Cloves 

1  pt.  vinegar 

Prepare  the  fruit  and  use  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound 
of  fruit.     Cook  until  transparent. 


116  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS. 

Chowchow  of  Green  Tomatoes. 


1   pk.  green  tomatoes. 

1    c.    salt 

6   large  onions. 

3   qt.   vinegar 

2   lb.  sugar 

2   qt.   water 

2   t.   ground  allspice 

2   t.    dry  mustard 

2   t.   ginger 

2   t.   cinnamon 

1    scant  t.  cayenne  pepper 

2  t.   cloves 

Slice  the  green  tomatoes  and  onions  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain  and  add 
one  quart  vinegar  and  the  water.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  drain 
again  and  add  two  quarts  vinegar,  the  sugar,  and  spices.  Mix 
well  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Good  Dill  Pickles. 

10  qt.  water  2   qt.  good  vinegar 

Cucumbers — 300  3   c.   salt 

Dill 

Scrub  your  cucumbers  clean  and  let  them  lie  in  salt  water 
over  night.  Wash  in  clear  water  next  morning.  Drain  and 
dry  them  all.  Put  dill  in  the  bottom  of  glass  jars  and  then 
pack  in  your  cucumbers  and  put  plenty  of  dill  on  the  top,  a 
few  spices  and  grape  leaves,  if  cared  for.  Now  boil  the  water, 
vinegar,  and  the  salt,  and  pour  over  your  pickles,  boiling  hot. 
Glass  jars  with  pickles  can  be  placed  in  hot  water  so  as  not  to 
crack.  Seal  the  jars  and  the  pickles  will  keep  and  be  nice 
and  crisp. 

Piccalilli. 
1    pk.  green  tomatoes  ^  doz.  onions 

Yi  large  head  cabbage  1    T.   cloves 

1    doz.  green  peppers  1    T.   cinnamon 

1    pt.   grated  horseradish  1    T.    allspice 

1    pt.   molasses 

Slice  and  sprinkle  the  green  tomatoes  with  salt  and  let 
them  stand  over  night.  Rinse  in  clear  water.  Chop  the 
cabbage,  green  peppers,  and  onions,  fine  and  drain  through  a 
collander.  Scald  in  vinegar  and  then  drain  oflF.  Do  not  use 
vinegar.  Add  the  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Add  the 
grated  horse-radish,  molasses,  and  vinegar  enough  to  saturate 
the  whole  when  packed  in  jars.     Excellent. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  117 


Pickled  Cherries. 

Stone  cherries,  then  cover  with  vinegar  twenty-four  hours. 
Drain  and  add  one  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  cherries. 
Stir  until  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  then  put  into  jars  and  seal. 

Sour  Beans. 

Cook  beans  in  salt  water  until  nearly  done.  Drain  and 
immediately  put  into  fruit  jars.  In  the  meanwhile  heat  one- 
third  cup  vinegar  to  one  cup  of  water.  Boil  a  few  minutes 
and  then  pour  over  beans  in  jars.  Seal  while  hot.  When 
using,  drain,  put  on  fresh  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Espe- 
cially good  for  salad. 

Sweet  Pickled  Watermelon. 

4   c.   vinegar  4   T.    broken  cinnamon  sticks 

8   c.    sugar  4  T.   whole  cloves 

Cut  skin  from  watermelon.  Cut-  rind  into  small  pieces 
about  one  inch  wide  and  two  inches  long.  Cover  with  water 
and  cook  until  tender.  Boil  sugar  and  vinegar  ten  minutes. 
Add  spices  tied  in  a  bag.  Simmer  to  a  syrup  (about  one 
hour).  Add  melon  and  simmer  another  hour.  Fill  in  jars  and 
seal. 

Good  Catsup. 

Yz  lb.  granulated  sugar  1    t.   ground  mace 

1    gal.  pulp  34    t.   cayenne  pepper 

Yz   pt.  cider  vinegar 

Choose  very  ripe  tomatoes,  wash  and  cut  them  in  pieces. 
Now  put  them  into  an  enameled  kettle,  or  jar,  and  let  them 
stand  three  days  in  a  warm  place,  stirring  them  twice  each 
day.  Strain  by  running  them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  fine 
enough  to  hold  the  seeds.  Boil  the  juice  without  cover  (being 
careful  not  to  burn  it).  When  it  is  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream,  measure  it  carefully  and  to  each  gallon  of  pulp,  add 
one-half  pound  granulated  sugar  (not  beet  sugar),  one-half 
pint  cider  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  ground  mace  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  bottle  and 
cork.  When  cold,  paraffin  may  be  poured  into  the  bottles  in 
place  of  corks.  This  is  a  very  choice  recipe  and  the  sauce 
will  keep  for  years  (and  is  exactly  the  beautiful  tomato  color). 


118  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


Compliments  of  HENRY  J.    NIEDERMAN 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    OOOK    BOOK. 


119 


1   bu.  tomatoes 

1  pt.   vinegar 
3   T.   salt 
3   T.   ground  mustard 

2  red  peppers 

Cut  the  tomatoes  into  quarters. 


Catsup. 

1   c.    sugar 

Yz   T.   cinnamon 

Yi   T.   allspice 


Yi   T.   whole  cloves 
3   large  onions 

Boil  and  strain. 


Add 


the  vinegar,  salt,  ground  mustard  and  sugar.  Tie  the  follow- 
ing spices  in  bag  and  add:  cinnamon,  allspice,  whole  clove, 
onions,  red  peppers  (seeded).    Boil  four  hours. 


120  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 

RELISHES. 

India  Relish— No.  1. 
1    pk.  green  tomatoes  1    T.  cinnamon 

1    head  cabbage  1    T.  allspice 

12  green  peppers  3   onions 

1    lb.  brown  sugar 

Chop  the  tomatoes,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  add  the 
onions,  cabbage,  and  peppers.  Then  add  spices  and  sugar, 
cover  well  with  vinegar  and  let  simmer  four  hours. 

India  Relish— No.  2. 

24  large  green  tomatoes  6   c.   vinegar,  diluted 

5   green  peppers  4  T.   white  mustard  seed 

4  T.    salt  2  T.   celery  seed 

4  c.    sugar  8   onions 

Remove  seeds  from  green  peppers.  Chop  tomatoes  and 
strain.  Chop  onions  and  green  peppers  and  mix  with  ingredi- 
ents.    Boil  slowly  until  thick  (about  six  hours). 

Mustard  Pickle  Relish. 

12   small  cucumbers  5^  c.  flour 

1    pt.  onions  3   green  peppers 

1    head  cauliflower  2^  qt.  green  tomatoes 

1    lb.  brown  sugar  V/i  qt.  cider  vinegar 

3   oz.  ground  mustard  1   T.   tumeric  powder 

Put  cucumbers,  cauliflower,  tomatoes,  onions  and  green 
peppers  through  a  food  chopper.  Let  stand  in  brine  over 
night.  Then  drain  through  muslin  bag  in  morning  and  boil 
up  with  a  dressing  made  of  the  remaining  ingredients.  Seal 
while  hot. 

Red  Tomato  Relish. 

1  pk.  red  tomatoes,  chopped     3^    c.   mustard  seed 
fine  y2    c.    salt 

2  c.   chopped  onions  1    t.    nutmeg 

2   c.   chopped  table  celery         1  t.  ground  black  pepper 

2  c.    sugar  4  t.  cinnamon 

3  small  red  peppers,  chopped    3   qt.  cold  vinegar 

Drain  water  ofif  tomatoes.  Add  onions,  celery,  sugar, 
mustard  seed,  salt,  nutmeg,  black  pepper,  cinnamon,  and  red 
peppers.     Then  pour  vinegar  over  all  and  bottle. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  121 

Pepper  Relish. 

12   large  red  peppers  3   c.    sugar 

12   large  green  peppers  3   T.    salt 

15   onions,  chopped  fine  3   T.   mustard  seed 

Vinegar 

Remove  seeds  from  peppers  and  chop  or  grind.  Mix  with 
the  onions  and  pour  boiling  water  over  the  mixture.  Let 
stand  five  minutes,  then  drain.  Make  a  vinegar  solution  of 
one  quart  vinegar  and  two  quarts  water.  Put  peppers  in  the 
mixture  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Let  stand  ten  minutes,  then 
drain  again.  Then  add  one  pint  of  vinegar,  the  salt,  sugar  and 
mustard  seed.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Boil  two  minutes,  bottle, 
and  seal. 

Spanish  Relish. 

2   doz.  small  cucumbers  4   red  and  2  green  peppers 

12   small  or  7  large  onions  ^  gal.  vinegar  diluted 

1    medium-sized  cabbage  3  lbs.  brown  sugar 

1  T.    salt  1  T.  mustard 

2  heaping  T.  flour  Little  tumeric 

3  large  stalks  celery 

Mix  the  mustard,  flour,  salt,  and  tumeric  with  a  little 
vinegar  and  water  until  smooth.  Add  rest  of  vinegar  and  sugar 
and  when  hot  add  pickles  and  boil  about  twenty  minutes. 
Bottle  hot. 


122  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


CANDIES. 

Sweets  to  the  sweet. 
"Better  than  Fudge"  Candy. 
3  c.  light  brown  sugar  5c  can  condensed  milk 

Small  lump  of  butter  Vanilla 

Cook  like  fudge,  or  until  candy  forms  a  small  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Add  vanilla  and  chopped  nuts.  Beat 
until  creamy. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Candy. 

2  T.  butter  %  c.  shredded  cocoanut. 

\y2  c.  white  sugar  5^  t.  vanilla 

y2  c.  sweet  milk 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  granite  pan.  Add  the  sugar  and  the 
milk.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling  point.  Boil  twelve  minutes, 
take  from  fire,  add  the  cocoanut  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  creamy 
and  pour  in  buttered  tin.    Cut  into  squares  when  cool. 

Fondant. 

2  c.  sugar  yi  t.  cream  of  tartar. 

%  c.  water 

Boil  the  ingredients  until  mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  into  cold  water.  Do  not  stir.  Turn  out  on  a  large 
platter,  not  greased.  Put  in  a  cool  place  and  when  it  begins 
to  harden,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  white  and  creamy. 
This  is  the  foundation  for  all  cream  candy.  With  fondant, 
innumerable  different  kinds  may  be  made. 

French  Chocolate  Candy. 

White  of  1  e^gg  1  lb.  confectioner's  sugar 

Use  the  white  of  one  tgg  and  an  equal  quantity  of  water. 
Mix  this  with  the  sugar.  If  not  stifif  enough  to  mould  with 
the  hand,  add  more  sugar.  Mould  into  shape  and  set  away 
a  few  hours  to  harden.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  a  dish  of  hot 
water  and  dip  the  candy  into  it.  Set  them  to  dry  on  parafine 
paper. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK.  123 

Fudge. 

3  c.  sugar  Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

1  c.  milk  or  cream  Pinch  of  salt 
6  T.  cocoa                                      Vanilla 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  cocoa  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water.  Then  add  vanilla  and  stir  up.  Care  should  be  taken 
not  to  stir  too  much,  or  it  may  get  lumpy. 

Pinoche. 

2  c.  brown  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

^  c.  milk  1  c.  chopped  nutmeats 

1  T.  butter 

Boil  sugar  and  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  it  becomes  a 
soft  ball  in  water.  Then  remove  from  fire,  add  butter,  vanilla, 
and  nutmeats.  Beat  until  creamy,  pour  in  buttered  pans, 
and  cut  in  squares. 

Sea  Foam  Candy. 

2  c.  brown  sugar  Vanilla 

^  c.  water  White  of  1  egg 

Boil  the  sugar  with  the  water  until  it  hairs.  Add  the 
vanilla,  pour  very  slowly,  beating  all  the  time,  into  the  stififly 
beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Then  beat  quite  hard  until  it  is 
rather  thick.  Stir  in  chopped  nuts  and  cherries.  Drop  on 
buttered  tins. 


124  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Yz   lb.   baking  soda 
y2    lb.   cornstarch 

Baking  Powder. 

1    lb.   cream  of  tartar 

Sift  four  or  fiA-e 

times. 

Corn  Meal  Mush. 

1    c.   meal 
1    t.    salt 

y2    c.    cold  water 
5   c.   boiling:  water 

Place  over  fire  in  smooth  kettle,  until  it  bubbles.  Then 
cover  tightty  and  set  on  back  of  stove  to  bubble  steadily  for 
an  hour. 

French  Toast. 

Slice  wheat  bread  and  dip  each  piece  into  milk.  Then 
beat  two  eggs  and  dip  bread  into  this  batter.  Fry  in  hot  lard. 
Serve  hot  Avith  butter  or  syrup. 

Salted  Almonds. 

These  salted  almonds  are  delicious  and  this  is  the  secret  of 
their  success.  Leave  on  the  outer  skin,  wash  and  dry  the 
nuts  thoroughly.  Melt  butter  in  a  pan,  and  stir  in  the  nuts, 
seeing  that  they  are  all  well  coated  with  butter  Salt  gen- 
erously and  leave  in  hot  oven  until  they  are  thoroughly  brown. 
They  are  very  crisp  and  have  a  richness  of  flavor  that  is  never 
obtained  in  the  blanched  nuts.  The  work  of  preparing  them, 
too,  is  lessened  by  half. 

Vinegar. 

Three  gallons  soft  water,  two  pounds  brown  sugar  and 
one  tablespoon  yeast.     This  makes  a  ver}^  good  vinegar. 


THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


125 


ABBREVIATIONS  AND  TABLES. 

Abbreviations. 

T.  stands  for  tablespoon.  gal.  stands  for  gallon, 

t.  stands  for  teaspoon.  qt.  stands  for  quart, 

ssp.  stands  for  saltspoon  (i^t)  pt.  stands  for  pint, 
c.  stands  for  cup.  lb.  stands  for  pound, 

spk.  stands  for  speck.  oz.  stands  for  ounce, 

pk.  stands  for  peck. 


Tables  of  Measures  and  Weights. 
3  t.=l  T. 


4  T.=>4  c. 
8  T.=l  gill. 
2  gi.==l  c. 
2  c.=  l  pt. 
2  pt.-=l  qt. 
4  qt.=  l  gal. 

8  qt.=l  pk. 

4  T.=l  wineglass. 

9  large  eggs=l  lb. 


4  c.  flour==l  lb. 
2  c.  solid  butter=l  lb. 
2  c.  gran.  sugar=l  lb. 
2  c.  milk  or  water==l  lb, 
2  c.  solid  meat=l  lb. 

1  t.  liquid=^  oz. 
4  T.  flour=l  oz. 

2  T.  sugar=l  oz. 
2  T.  butter=l  oz. 


19  17 


126  THE    EAST    MILWAUKEE    COOK    BOOK. 


INDEX. 

Page 
Abbreviations  and  Tables 125 

Bread 57 

Cakes 63 

Candies 122 

Cookies  and  Doughnuts 97 

Desserts 107 

Dressings 42 

Eggs  and  Omelets 45 

Fish,  Oysters  and  Shrimps 9 

Frostings  and  Fillings 95 

Jelly  and  Preserves 113 

Meats 15 

Miscellaneous 124 

Pickles  and  Catsups 116 

Pies 53 

Puddings 47 

Salads 29 

Sauces 109 

Soups  and  Dumplings 3 

Relishes 120 

Vegetables 25 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


Consult 

Nathanael  Greene 


re 


Real  Estate 


