TX  715 
.S857 
Copy  * 


Eastern  ^ttvt 
ffinnk  Innk 


THE 

Eastern  Shore  Cook  Book, 

OF  MARYLAND  RECIPES. 


COMPILED  FROM  SIGNED  AND  TESTED  RECIPES 

BY  THE  EPWORTH  LEAGUE   OF  THE   STILL   POND,  MARYLAND. 

METHODIST  EPISCOPAL  CHURCH. 


Published  by  the  League,  June,    1916. 
Revised    Edition,  December,    1919. 


Mrs.  William  Medders,  Chairman  of  Committee, 
Of  Epwokth  League  Cabinet. 


Wilmington,  Delaware, 

Hubert  A.  Roop,  Printer,  604  Market  Street. 

1919 


<* 


Copyright,    1919, 
By   the  Epworth   League  of  Still  Pond  Methodist  Episcopal  Church, 
Still  Pond,   Maryland. 


DEC  18  1319 


>C!.A5590S8 


PREFACE 


To  THE  Woman  whose  blessing  it  has  been  to  live 
on  the  Eastern  Shore  of  Maryland  there  is  something 
indescribably  fascinating  in  any  Cook  Book.  Given  a 
compilation  of  Kent  County  recipes,  and  a  true  house- 
keeper's cup  of  joy  is  full.  The  beckoning  opportunity 
and  prophetic  challenge  of  every  new  recipe,  added  to 
the  certainties  of  the  tried  and  proven  ones,  stimulate 
ambition  to  the  noble  achievements  of  culinary  nrt, 
surpassing  even  the  triumphs  of  a  region  already  justly 
proud  of  its  good  things  to  eat. 

The  Epworth  League  of  the  Still  Pond  M.  E. 
Church  in  presenting  this  Cook  Book  does  not  claim  to 
have  included  all  the  cooking  formulas  that  have  made 
the  Eastern  Shore  celebrated  for  its  living,  but  it  does 
assure  its  patrons  that  within  its  pages  will  be  found 
such  recipes,  as  are  representative  of  Kent  County  and 
guarantees  them  all  to  be  tested  and  proven  ones. 
The  League  begs  to  thank  all  who  have  contributed 
recipes  and  co-operated  in  the  work  of  producing  this 
book. 

To  all  who  have  encouraged  the  League;  to  all 
who  have  made  the  labor  of  preparation  lighter  in  any 
way;  to  the  printer  of  these  pages  for  many  valuable 
suggestions  and  a  scrupulous  acuracy  and  discrimina- 
ting taste;  hearty  thanks  arc  given. 

Better  dinners,    better  digestion,   a  long  life  to  all. 


Still  Pond  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  is 
the  oldest  continuously  organized  society  of  Metho- 
dists in  the  Delmarvia  Peninsula.  The  great  organizer 
of  Methodism,  Francis  Asbury,  established  a  preaching- 
place  here  in  1772.  Worship  has  been  maintained 
without  interruption  from  that  date  until  the  present 
time,  therefore,  the  church  has  a  history  covering  a 
period  of  147  years.  The  original  church  was  erected 
before  Washington  was  first  made  President  of  the 
United  States.  In  1852,  the  old  church  was  replaced 
by  a  brick  edifice,  which,  remodeled  and  refurnished 
in  1SS2,  with  additional  improvements  in  1912,  stands 
as  you  see  it  to-day. 

This  church  extends  a  welcome  to  all  its  services. 
Rev.  A.  W.  GOODHAND,  Pastor. 


•■t. 

-, 

i      fijiajr 

■,jHI 

wKfc* 

>"Trl  f.t            'UmIiiIPiI    Hi 
S     #  All  **" 

L  * 

I     iT    i   *l           :  f  # 

■ 

i  * 

■      ■15                    f 

• 

HHH^HBo'       '    v4VNKl  9HRM5 

Still   Pond,  Maryland,  M.  E.  Church. 


BREADS 


Liquid   Yeast. 

Take  four  medium-size  potatoes,  two  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Boil 
potatoes  until  thoroughly  cooked,  mash,  add  flour,  sugar 
and  salt,  then  thin  with  water  in  which  potatoes  were 
cooked.  When  lukewarm  add  one  Magic  yeast  cake  or  a 
good  home-made  one,  and  set  in  warm  place  until  it  has 
thoroughly  risen.  Mrs.  W.  D.  P. 

Yeast   Cakes. 

Make  yeast  as  above  and  when  risen  mix  with  enough 
cornmeal  to  make  out  in  stiff  cakes.  Make  about  size  of 
small  biscuit  and  place  in  sun  to  dry.  Turn  when  dry  on  one 
side  so  both  sides  may  dry  thoroughly.  Mrs.  Jarrell. 

Light  Bread,  No.  1. 

One  quart  flour,  teaspoonful  sugar,  salt,  to  taste  ;  lard, 
size  of  walnut ;  one  teacupf  ul  home-made  potato  yeast, 
one  teacupful  lukewarm  water.  Work  well  and  let  rise  in 
warm  place  to  double  its  size ;  work  down  and  let  rise 
again  to  double  its  size.  Make  out  in  two  loaves  or  two 
and  one-half  dozen  rolls.  Grease,  let  rise  and  bake.  Grease 
again  when  taken  from  oven  and  let  cool  without  cover- 
ing. Mrs.  J.  H.  K. 
Egg  Rolls. 

Sift  four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  with  one  quart  of  flour;  rub  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  shortening.  Beat  one  egg,  add  one  and 
a  half  cupfuls  of  milk,  stir  into  the  flour,  knead  quickly, 
roll  into  sheet  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  large 
round  cutter,  make  a  depression  in  centre  of  each  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  brush  baking  pan,  brush  top  with  milk, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Hope  Hackett. 


Pocketbook  Rolls. 

One  pint  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lard.  Put  on  stove,  let  come  to  boil,  when 
cool  add  flour  and  one-half  cupful  yeast.  Mix  very  stiff, 
let  rise  like  light  bread.  Mrs.  Atwell. 

Maryland  Biscuits,  No.  1. 

Ten  cupfuls  flour,  one  cupful  lard,  two  teaspoonfuls  salt, 
cold  water  to  make  very  stiff  dough.  Beat  half  hour. 
Mold,  prick  with  fork  and  bake  25  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  J  axe  Howard. 

Maryland  Biscuits,  No.  2. 

Take  nine  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder, 
salt  to  taste.  Make  up  stiff  with  cold  water,  grind  four 
times  through  a  meat  grinder,  working  thoroughly  be- 
tween each  grinding,  or  beat  thirty  minutes.  Mold,  prick 
with  fork  and  bake  20  minutes.  S.  A.  Price. 

Rice  Pone. 

Two  cupfuls  cornmeal,  one  cupful  hot  boiled  rice,  two 
eggs,  one  cupful  milk,  one-half  cupful  water,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls 
lard,  melted  before  using  and  put  in  hot;  two  teaspoon- 
fuls yeast  powder.  Nancy  Price. 

Corn  Pone,  No.  1. 

One  egg,  one  pint  milk,  one  tablcspoonful  sugar,  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  lard,  one  pint  meal,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Mix  together  and  bake  in 
quick  oven.  Linda  Bonwill. 

Corn  Pone,  No.  2. 

One-quarter  cupful  meal,  one  cupful  scalded  milk,  four 
Uaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful butter,  one-half  cupful  boiling  water,  one  egg. 
Mix  salt,  butter,  boiling  water  and  sugar.  Scald  meal  with 
milk  ;  add  yolk  of  egg,  add  white  well  beaten  ;  last,  add 
yeast  powder.  Bake  20  minutes.  One-quarter  cupful  of 
hominy  or  rice  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Louise  Travers. 


9 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  buckwheat,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
water  enough  to  make  a  good  batter  and  a  half  cupful  of 
wet  yeast.  Let  raise  over  night  and  in  the  morning  add 
one  spoonful  of  syrup  or  molasses.  Nellie  H.  Price. 

Corn   Slappers  a  la   Eastern   Shore.        X. 

One  cupful  white  cornmeal,  one  egg,  one  and  one-hall 
cupfuls  sweet  milk,  salt  to  taste.  Beat  egg  well,  add  milk 
and  meal,  let  stand  five  or  ten  minutes,  then  fry  by  spoon- 
fuls on  greased  griddle.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for 
two  persons.  Mrs.  M.  R.  WlLSON. 

Potato   Buns. 

Dissolve  one  cake  Fleischman's  yeast  and  one  table- 
sponful  sugar  in  one  cupful  milk,  scalded  and  cooled;  add 
one-half  cupful  mashed  potatoes,  two  cupfuls  sifted  flour. 
Stir  well,  let  rise  about  half-hour  and  add  one-half  cupful 
lard  or  butter,  one  egg,  creamed,  and  two  and  one-half 
cupfuls  sifted  flour,  enough  to  make  dough  that  can  be 
handled.  Cover;  let  rise  two  hours  until  double  in  size; 
form  into  buns;  place  in  greased  pans  and  let  rise  one  and 
one-half  hours.  When  light  bake  about  20  minutes.  If 
lard  is  used  instead  of  butter,  add  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt.  K.  Howard. 

Mrs.  Turner's  Irish  Bread. 

Two  eggs,  two  cupfuls  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  melted 
lard  or  butter,  one  cupful  yeast,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
salt  to  taste  and  flour  sufficient  for  stiff  batter.  Beat  thor- 
oughly. Bring  milk  to  boiling  point,  but  do  not  boil.  Set 
aside  to  cool.  Beat  eggs  together,  add  sugar  and  part  of 
warm  milk,  with  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter;  then 
melted  lard.  When  this  is  thoroughly  beaten  in,  add  yeast 
and  balance  of  flour  to  make  stiff  batter  that  will  drop 
from  the  spoon.  Half  of  this  quantity  makes  a  loaf  large 
enough  for  a  family  of  four.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  moderate  oven.  Start  this  about  11  o'clock  for 
the  evening  meal.  Mrs.  M.  R.  Wii.so.v. 


10 

Muffins. 

One-third  cupful  butter,  two  cupfuls  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  three-quarters  cupful  milk,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  large  table-spoonful  baking  powder, 
one  egg.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  20  minutes.  This  recipe 
makes  one  dozen.  Mrs.  F.  B.  Harper. 

Tea   Biscuits. 

Two  cupfuls  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  yeast 
powder,  little  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Make  as  soft 
as  can  be  handled  well  and  handle  as  little  as  possible. 
Use  cold  water  to  mix.  Alice  H.  Coleman. 

Johnny  Cake   (Originally  Called  Journey  Cake). 

One-half  gallon  cornmeal  and-  two  level  spoonfuls  salt. 
Make  stiff  dough  by  pouring  warm  water  over  meal.  Let 
stand  all  night  in  moderately  cool  place.  In  morning  add 
one-half  pound  lard,  melted,  but  not  hot.  To  cook,  have 
a  smooth  board  about  18  inches  long  and  6  inches  wide. 
Scald  board  and  leave  wet  so  dough  will  adhere.  Place 
dough  on  boai*d  to  the  thickness  of  one  inch.  Place  board 
lengthwise  before  open  fire  until  it  browns.  Then  run 
knife  under  cake,  turn  on  a  table,  putting  on  board  again 
and  placing  before  fire  to  brown  the  other  side.  To  serve 
cut  in  slices  four  inches  wide.  Mrs.  Mary  E.  Davis. 

Potato   Rolls. 

Two  cupfuls  mashed  potatoes,  one-half  cupful  lard,  two 
eggs,  one-half  cupful  yeast,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Set  to 
lighten,  then  add  flour  enough  to  make  soft  dough.  When 
light,  make  out  in  rolls  and  lighten  again. 

M.  K.  Roseberrv. 
Rusks. 
Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  sugar,  three  cup- 
fuls milk,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  one  cupful  of  yeast,  a 
little  salt  and  nutmeg.    Make  the  sponge  light  and  let  rise 
like  bread.  Mrs.  Elwin  Ford. 

Corn  Fritters. 
To  one   quart   of   grated   corn,  two   eggs   beaten    sepa- 
rately,   two    tablespoonfuls    of    sweet    cream,    two    table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  small  pinch 
of  bread  soda,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last. 

Mrs.  Harry  Davis. 


11 

Apple  Fritters. 

Three  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  Rumford  yeast  powder,  two  tea- 
cupfuls  chopped  apples.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
eggs  separately.  Stir  milk  i.i  with  yolks,  add  flour,  which 
has  been  mixed  with  yeast  powder;  put  in  a  little  salt; 
lastly,  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  all  together  very  hard  and 
fry  at  once.  Serve  with  butter  and  sugar.  The  same  bat- 
ter may  be  used  for  all  fruit  fritters.  L.  E.  Birch. 


SOUPS. 


Poor  Man's  Vegetable   Soup. 

A  delicious  soup  can  be  made  from  the  trimmings  of  an 
ordinary,  sized  steak,  if  there  is  a  small  piece  of  marrow 
bone  in  it,  and  the  bone  of  a  smoked  or  sugar  cured  ham. 
The  ham  bone  gives  an  unusual  flavor,  very  pleasing,  and 
the  scraps  of  fresh  meat  give  the  richness.  Half  a  cupful 
each  of  white  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  corn,  tomatoes 
and  finely  cut  cabbage,  added  after  the  bones  and  water 
(about  two  quarts)  have  boiled  half  an  hour.  Good  soup 
depends  largely  upon  the  seasoning.  Half  an  onion,  chop- 
ped fine  with  parsley  and  celery,  gives  a  good  flavor,  but 
if  one  can  get  dried  thyme  the  soup  is  indeed  savory. 
Vegetable  soup  ought  to  cook  not  less  than  one  hour 
after  the  vegetables  go  in,  but  the  longer  the  better.  Just 
before  putting  the  vegetables  in,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
rice  or  barley  should  be  added.  Mrs.  R.  D.  Moore. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Cut  all  the  lean  meat  from  a  ham  bone,  add  about  a 
quart  of  water.  Cut  one  onion  in  small  pieces,  add  two 
large  potatoes,  cut  in  dice,  and  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  cook  about  one  hour  and  serve 
hot.  Mrs.  Walter  Moffett. 

Noodle   Soup. 

Put  shin  bone  on  early  in  morning  in  cold  water.  Skim 
off  any  froth   that  comes   to   surface.     Add  salt,   pepper, 


12 

onion  and  celery  or  parsley.  Later  add  a  few  tomatoes. 
Put  in  noodles  about  one-half  hour  before  serving  and  let 
cook  slowly.  Mrs.  Charles  Walter. 

Celery  Soup. 
Two  cupfuls  finely  cut  celery  (outer  parts  preferred), 
three  cupfuls  cold  water,  butter  size  of  walnut,  three  cup- 
fuls milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  until  very  tender, 
an  hour  is  not  too  long.  Then  add  milk,  and  let  it  come 
to  boiling  point,  when,  with  butter  and  seasoning  added, 
it  is  ready  to  serve.  O.  H.  M. 

/-  Peanut-Butter   Soup. 

Three  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  hot  water,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  peanut  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  a  dash 
of  pepper.  While  the  milk  is  heating  mix  the  peanut  but- 
ter with  the  hot  water  until  smooth  ;  then  add  to  the  boil- 
ing milk;  mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
add  to  the  hot  milk;  add  the  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg; 
boil  for  three  minutes.     Serve  with  small  crackers. 

O.  H.  M. 
Mock   Bisque. 

One  can  tomatoes,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  soda,  one- 
third  cupful  butter,  one  quart  milk,  one-third  cupful  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Cook  the  tomatoes  until  soft,  press  through  a  strainer, 
and  add  soda  to  pulp.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  milk  slowly,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens,  add  the  tomato  juice  and  reheat, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Edith  W.  Bell. 

Bean  Soup. 

Wash  thoroughly,  soak  over  night  in  plenty  of  cold 
water.  Put  on  in  morning  with  piece  of  bacon  and  cook 
several  hours.  Half  hour  before  serving  add  a  few  pota- 
toes cut  in  small  pieces,  pepper  and  salt,  later  add  drop 
dumplings  or  noodles.    Cook  until  done  and  serve. 

Mabel  Norris. 

Potato   Soup. 

Six  large  potatoes,  one-half  pint  water,  two  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one 


13 

tablespoonful  flour.  Boil  six  large  potatoes  (sliced)  with 
just  enough  water  to  cook  well  and  so  there  will  be  about 
one-half  cupful  water  in  kettle  when  potatoes  are  done. 
Put  through  ricer,  then  add  one-half  pint  of  water,  in 
which  potatoes  were  boiled,  the  two  and  one-half  cupfuls 
milk  and  season  with  celery-salt  or  parsley,  salt  and  pep- 
per and  butter.  Mix  tablespoonful  of  flour 'and  little  milk 
together  and  add  to  boiling  soup.       Mrs.  E.  C.  Hepburn. 


FISH. 


Fried  Fish,  No.  1. 

Clean  and  wash  fish  well.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Dust  well  all  sides  of  fish  with  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.  ■  Mrs.  Wm.  Stanley. 

Fried  Fish,  No.  2. 

Clean  and  wash  fish.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip 
fish  well  in  either  flour  or  corn  meal  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  Warner  Geary. 

Boiled   Rock   With   Egg  Sauce. 

Wrap  rock  in  large  cloth,  drop  in  boiling  salted  water 
for  about  30  minutes.  Take  immediately  out  of  water, 
place  on  dish  and  surround  with  sauce  made  as  follows  : 
Boil  hard  six  eggs,  remove  and  mash  fine  the  yolks.  Add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful 
mustard.  Have  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  cut  whites  of  eggs  fine 
and  when  milk  begins  to  boil,  add  the  other  mixture,  and 
the  whites,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  lumping.  When 
thick  pour  over  the  fish.  Evelyn  Harris. 

Baked  Fish. 

Carefully  wash  and  dry  fish,  put  in  stuffing  and  sew  up 
opening.  Cut  gashes  each  side  of  fish  and  lay  piece  of 
salt  pork  in  each  cut.  Dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour 
and  lay  in  a  baking  dish,  placing  slices  of  salt  pork  under, 
around  and  over  fish.  Serve  with  brown  sauce.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  I.  C.  S. 


14 

Planked  Shad. 

Take  large  shad,  split  down  the  back  and  take  out  back- 
bone. Have  hardwood  board,  hickory  preferred.  Heat 
thoroughly  hot  in  oven.  Take  out,  place  shad  on  it  skin 
down.  Season  the  inside  of  shad  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fold  together.  Season  if  needed,  and  rub  with  a  little 
butter.  Place  in  hot  oven,  baste  with  melted  butter.  Cook 
until  done,  which  will  be  in  about  20  or  30  minutes.  Serve 
on  plank  with  trimmings  of  lettuce,  sliced  tomatoes,  po- 
tato chips  and  sliced  lemon.  O.  H.  M. 

Scalloped   Cat-fish. 

Skin  cat-fish.  Put  layer  of  sliced  raw  potatoes  (and 
sliced  onion,  if  liked)  in  bottom  of  pan.  Sprinkle  with 
flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Next  put  layer  of  fish  and  sprinkle 
again  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  lastly  another  layer 
of  potatoes  and  onions,  on  top  of  which  place  thin  slices 
of  bacon.     Cover  with  cold  water  and  bake  in  oven. 

M.  B.  P. 
Salmon   Croquettes. 

Take  a  can  of  salmon  and  drain  off  water.  To  this  add 
about  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  one  egg,  a  little  salt, 
pinch  of  mustard  and  a  little  vinegar.  Make  into  cakes 
and  roll  in  cracker  meal.    Fry  in  hot  lard.      Helen  Ford. 

Scalloped   Salmon. 

Can  of  salmon,  two  cupfuls(  scant)  bread  crumbs,  finely 
broken,  one  cupful  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  butter  size  of 
walnut;  more  will  improve  dish.  Butter  dish,  alternate 
layers  of  bread  crumbs,  salmon,  seasoning  and  milk,  be- 
ing careful  to  add  milk  before  last  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
is  added,  and  having  saved  out  enough  butter  to  dot  over 
top.  Bake  in  hot  oven  about  one-half  hour,  or  until  nicely 
browned.  O.  H.  M. 

Salmon  With   Egg  Sauce. 

Heat  salmon  to  boiling  point.  Best  plan  to  place  can  in 
vessel  and  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  boil  about  ten 
minutes.  Take  out  of  can,  form  in  shape  of  fish  on  hot 
platter  and  cover  with  egg  sauce  made  like  one  used  on 
boiled  rock.  Evelyn  Harkis. 


15 

Shell- Fish. 


Stewed  Oysters,  No.   1. 

Drain  oysters.  Put  liquor,  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter 
on  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Thicken  slightly,  add  oysters, 
let  them  get  plump  and  serve.  Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Bowers. 

Stewed  Oysters,  No.  2. 
One  quart  oysters,  one  pint  milk.   Put  oysters  on  to  boil 
in  their  own  liquor.     Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  milk 
(boiling  hot),  butter,  salt  and  white  pepper.    Serve. 

Mrs.  Alice  R.  Rasin. 
Scalloped   Oysters. 
Grease  pan  well  with  butter.     Fill  with  layer  of  oysters 
and  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  add  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Cover  with  half  milk  and  oyster  liquor.    Bake  in  oven. 

Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Hepbron. 

Fried  Oysters,  No.  1. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  drained,  and  mixed  with  one  well- 
beaten  egg,  one  box  crackers,  run  through  meat  grinder, 
to  which  add  pepper  and  salt,  if  fresh-water  oysters  ;  omit 
salt  if  salt-water  oysters.  Take  two  or  three,  depending 
on  size,  put  heart  oysters  to  heart  and  pat  well  with  the 
cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  deep,  boiling  lard. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Walter. 
Fried  Oysters,  No.  2. 

Drain  oysters  in  colander.  Take  two  or  three  oysters, 
dip  in  cracker  dust,  pat  together,  lay  on  board.  When 
ready  to  fry,  dip  in  liquor  and  roll  again  in  cracker 
crumbs.  Fry  in  a  basket  in  deep  hot  lard.  Turn  out  on 
wax  paper.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Taylor. 

Oysters   in   Brown    Sauce. 

One  pint  oysters,  one-half  cupful  oyster  juice,  one-quar- 
ter cupful  butter,  one-half  cupful  milk,  one-quarter  cupful 
flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoonful 
pepper.  Cook  oysters  in  the  juice  until  they  curl,  then 
strain  the  juice.  Brown  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
flour  and  stir  until  dark  brown.    Add  milk  gradually,  cook 


16 

until  it  thickens  and  add  strained  oyster  juice.  Add  the 
oysters,  heat  to  boiling  point.  Serve  hot  on  toast  or  in 
patty  shells.  Edith  Bell. 

Oyster   Pie. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  flaky  pie  crust.  Then  fill  with  oys- 
ters, season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  butter  and 
sprinkle  over  with  flour.  Put  on  a  top  crust  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  Kate  P.  Magee. 

Pigs   in   Blankets. 

One  dozen  large  oysters,  one  dozen  thin  slices  of  bacon. 
Roll  each  oyster  in  a  slice  of  bacon  and  fasten  the  ends 
with  a  skewer.  Put  in  a  hot  spider  or  chafing  dish  and 
cook  till  the  bacon  is  crisp.  Place  on  buttered  toast  and 
serve.  .Mrs.  W.  D.  Pennington. 

Turtle  Pot  Pie. 

Take  a  turtle,  cut  off  its  head  and  let  bleed.  Scald  with 
boiling  water  and  let  lay  in  water  until  skin  will  remove 
easily;  then  cut  off  lower  shell,  throw  away  all  intestines. 
Cut  meat  out  of  shell  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Wash  well, 
cover  with  water,  cook  from  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to 
one  hour,  according  to  size,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  tender  make  a  short  crust,  cut  in  dice  shape,  drop 
in  kettle,  let  cook  and  thicken  about  like  stewed  chicken. 

Mrs.  Wm.  B.  Price. 

Stewed  Turtle  or  Terrapin. 

Proceed  with  turtle  as  in  above  recipe,  until  cooked  ten- 
der, then  remove  from  stove.  When  cold,  cut  or  tear  meat 
in  small  pieces.  Put  on  stove  with  enough  of  the  water  in 
which  it  has  been  cooked  to  well  cover  it.  When  boiling 
hot  to  about  one  quart  of  meat,  add  the  following  ingredi- 
ents, all  mixed  together:  One  tablespoonful  butter,  yolks 
of  five  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  smooth  with  one  raw 
egg  beaten  in  them;  two  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour,  one 
scant  tablespoonful  mustard  and  one-half  cupful  vinegar. 
Stir  well,  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  chopped  whites  of  the 
five  eggs  and  serve.  O.  H.  M. 

Fried  Soft-shelled  Crabs,  No.  I. 

Remove  dead  men,  sand  bag,  eyes  and  mouth.  Wash 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  E.  B.  H. 


17 

Fried  Soft-shelled  Crabs,  No.  2. 

Clean  as  in  above  recipe,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 

crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Louise  Pennington. 

Boiled  Hard  Crabs. 

Place  small  pieces  of  wood  on  bottom  of  kettle  to  keep 
crabs  out  of  water.  Put  in  small  quantity  of  water, 
amount  depending  on  number  of  crabs  to  be  used  and  size 
of  kettle.  Put  in  liberal  supply  of  vinegar,  salt,  pepper 
and  mustard.  Let  boil  hard,  then  add  crabs.  Cover  well 
and  let  steam  until  crabs  are  red.  Committee. 

Crab    Cakes. 

To  the  meat  of  one  dozen  hard  crabs  add  one-half  cup- 
ful bread  crumbs,  piece  butter  size  of  walnut  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  suit  taste.     Make  in  cakes  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  B. 
Deviled  Crabs. 

Two  dozen  crabs,  or  one  pound  and  a  half  crab  meat, 
salt  to  taste,  beat  three  eggs,  one-quarter  or  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  red  pepper,  one-half  cupful  bread  crumbs,  melt 
one-quarter  pound  best  butter,  one  wineglassful  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  a  little  parsley,  one  small  onion,  chopped 
fine.  Put  in  last.  Heat  all  together  and  stir  while  heat- 
ing, as  it  might  burn.  Moisten  with  tablespoonful  or  two 
of  stock  or  extract  of  beef.  Fill  your  shells  and  brush 
with  well-beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and 
brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  L.  P.  Atwell. 


MEATS. 


Jn  cooking  meat,  first  scar  it  on  the  outside  SO  as  to  re- 
tain the  juices,  thereby  preserving  the  flavor,  then  cook 
slowly.  This  applies  alike  whether  baking,  boiling  or  fry- 
ing. Time  required  for  bakiug,  per  pound:  Beef,  15  to  20 
minutes;  pork,  30  minutes;  veal,  20  minutes;  lamb  and 
mutton.  15  minutes.  Put  enough  water  in  pan  to  keep 
from  burning;  baste  frequently.  Committee. 


18 

Pot   Roast. 

Four  to  six  pounds  from  the  middle  or  face  of  the  rump 
or  the  round.  Sear  all  over  by  placing  in  a  hot  frying 
pan  with  fat  from  the  meat  and  turn  until  all  the  surfaces 
are  browned.  Put  in  a  kettle  with  one  cupful  of  water 
and  keep  just  below  the  boiling  point.  Do  not  let  the 
water  cook  away,  but  add  enough  to  keep  meat  from 
burning.  Have  the  cover  fitted  closely  to  keep  in  steam. 
Cook  till  tender.  Add  seasoning  after  the  first  half-hour's 
cooking.    Serve  hot  or  cold.         Mrs.  J  no.  W.  Robinson,  Sr. 

Stuffed  Leg   of  Lamb. 

Remove  bone  from  six-pound  leg  of  lamb  and  fill  cavity 
with  three  cupfuls  stale  bread  which  has  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  and  pressed  dry,  three  large  tablespoonfuls 
butter,  salt,  pepper  and  sage  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Jno.  W.  Robinson,  Sr. 

Roast    of   Veal. 

Have  bone  carefully  taken  out  of  six  pounds  of  the 
shoulder.  Fill  cavity  with  "Stale  Bread  Dressing,"  found 
under  poultry.    Cook  two  hours.  O.  H.  M. 

Beef  Loaf. 

Two  cupfuls  cracker  dust,  two  and  one-half  pounds 
beef,  cooked;  one  or  two  eggs,  one-half  pound  veal  or 
pork,  cooked;  one-half  cupful  milk.  Season  to  taste. 
Make  out  in  a  loaf,  put  tomatoes  and  butter  on  top.  Bake 
one-half  hour.     Serve  hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  J.  R.  U. 

Meat  Croquettes. 

Take  one  pint  of  cold  meat,  measured  after  it  goes 
through  grinder;  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  one  cup  milk.  Put  the  butter  in  a  pan  on 
the  stove,  when  melted,  mix  in  flour,  then  the  milk  and 
boil  until  it  thickens.  Cool  and  mix  in  the  meat,  season  to 
taste.  A  little  nutmeg  will  improve  flavor.  Shape,  dip  in 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry.  Mrs.  S.  B.  Pakrott. 

Casserole  Beef. 

An  excellent  method  for  preparing  lough  beef  is  to  take 
the  meat  in  one  solid  slice,  wipe  carefully  and  lay  in  bot- 


19 

torn  of  the  casserole.  Add  one  can  of  tomatoes,  or  as 
much  as  it  would  take  to  cover  the  meat,  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cover  closely  and  cook  in  the  oven  for 
two  or  three  hours.  Dish  the  meat,  thicken  the  tomatoes 
with  a  little  flour  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  Ford. 
Roast  Pig. 
Take  pig  weighing  from  12  to  15  pounds  when  dressed, 
season  lightly.  Prepare  stuffing  as  for  fowl  and  season  it 
with  salt,  pepper  and  little  sage.  Stuff  pig  and  sew  up. 
Place  in  roaster  and  cook  in  moderate  oven  two  or  three 
hours.  A  good  way  to  tell  when  done  is  to  stick  fork  in 
thick  part  of  shoulder  and  if  done  no  red  juice  will  come 
out.     Serve  with  apple  in  mouth.       Mrs.  Emma  Jarrell. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Clean  well  and  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  in 
boiler  with  liberal  supply  of  water  (cold)  and  put  on  back 
of  stove  to  cook  slowly — do  not  let  boil.  A  large  ham  will 
take  all  day  to  cook.  When  done,  remove  from  stove,  let- 
ting ham  remain  in  boiler  until  all  is  cool. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Hepburn. 

Ham    Pie. 

Cut  ham  in  small  pieces.  Boil  a  cupful  rice.  Beat  two 
eggs  and  stir  in  with  ham  and  rice.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  celery  seed,  onions  if  desired.  Bake  in  deep  pan 
with  crust  until  crust  is  done.  Mrs.  Jos.  Howard. 

Sausage    Croquettes. 

Take  half  pint  cup  of  sausage,  boil  two  medium  size  po- 
tatoes and  mash,  then  mix  thoroughly  with  the  sausage. 
Add  a  bit  of  onion  and  a  little  green  tomato  catsup,  chop 
tine  and  put  in  a  half  pint  of  light  bread  crumbs.  Mix  all 
into  a  stiff  dough.  Mould  into  small  pyramids  and  put  on  a 
pan  lightly  greased,  then  bake  until  brown,  in  oven.  This 
make  a  delicious  breakfast  dish.  R.  D.  II. 

Tongue. 

Boil  fresh  tongue  in  very  salt  water  until  tender.  Celery 
and  one  small  red  pepper  with  a  few  cloves  added  while 
cooking   improves    flavor.     When    tender,   peel   and   bake 


20 

with    a    dressing    of    brown    sugar,    vinegar,    water    and 
ground  spices  until  the  dressing  is  like  candy.    Serve  cold. 

Lillias  Foun. 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon. 

Scald  liver,  flour  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fry  breakfast  bacon  in  hot  skillet,  take  out,  put  in  liver, 
turn  often  ;  will  take  about  20  minutes  or  one-half  hour. 
When  done  put  on  hot  platter.  Make  brown  gravy,  and 
serve  on  hot  platter  with  bacon  placed  around  the  edge 
of  the  liver.  Mrs.  Wilmer  L.  Fqrd. 

Fried  Liver. 

Slice  onions  over  liver,  put  into  a  frying  pan  of  hot  lard, 
place  cover  over  pan,  when  ready  to  take  the  onions  up 
on  a  plate,  turn,  place  onions  again  on  top,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cover  again,  continue  same  until  done. 

Maggie  Duyer. 

Veal  Cutlet. 

Use  large  slices  of  veal  cutlet,  cut  into  individual  pieces, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  creamed 
gravy  or  tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  R.  D.  Moore. 

Pork  Chops   (Breaded). 

Take  lean  pork  chops  and  proceed  as  for  veal  cutlet. 
They  are  very  different  in  taste  from  the  usual  fried  pork- 
chops.  Mrs.  R.  D.  Moore. 


POULTRY. 


Roast  Turkey,  Chicken,  Duck  or  Goose. 

If  fowl  is  not  very  fat,  rub  well  with  lard  before  season- 
ing with  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  with  any  desired  dressing. 
Bake  with  enough  water  in  pan  to  keep  from  burning,  al- 
lowing, per  pound,  fifteen  minutes  for  chicken  and  ducks  ; 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  for  turkey;  twenty  minutes  for 
goose.    Baste  often.  Ladies  of  Still  Pond  Grange. 


21 

Brown  Dressing  for  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

Crumble  as  much  stale  bread  as  necessary  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  thyme.  Pour  over  this  a  little  melt- 
ed butter  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown.  If  preferred,  add 
one  dozen  oysters,  chopped  fine.      Mary  Harper  Harris. 

Chestnut  Dressing  for  Turkey. 

Shell  your  chestnuts  first,  preferably  Japanese  or  Span- 
ish chestnuts.  Then  scald  in  boiling  water  and  take  the 
brown  skin  off.  Put  in  a  little  water  and  boil  until  ten- 
der. Mash  and  mix  with  a  little  butter,  bread  crumbs, 
pepper  and  salt.  Mary  Harper  Harris. 

Dressing  for  Roast  Goose. 

Apple  and  raisin  dressing.  Scald  raisins  and  chop.  Mix 
with  chopped  apples  and  season  to  taste.      Mrs.  J.  R.  W. 

Stale    Bread    Dressing. 

Mix  well  finely  broken  stale  bread  with  butter.  Season 
well  with  pepper,  salt,  onion,  celery,  or  celery  seed. 

Lucille  Parr. 

Fried  Chicken,  No.  1. 

One  chicken  (cut  in  pieces),  one  teacup  of  flour,  one 
egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Season  chicken  well  and  let  remain 
short  time  before  frying.  Mix  flour  and  water  to  stiff 
batter,  then  add  egg  and  beat  altogether  until  smooth. 
Thin  batter  then  to  consistency  of  very  thick  cream.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  chicken  into  batter  and  fry 
in  hot  fat.  Mrs.  W.  D.  Pennington. 

Fried  Chicken,  No.  2. 
Cut   in  pieces,  flour  and  season  well.     Fry  in   hot   lard. 
Keep  turning  until  thoroughly  done  and  well  browned. 

Mrs.  Lloyd  Dill. 
Stewed  Chicken. 
Cut  chicken  in  pieces  and  drop  in  boiling  water.  Cook 
slowly  until  tender.  If  desired,  drop  in  medium-sized  po- 
tatoes shortly  before  chicken  is  done.  Season  to  taste. 
Thicken,  pour  on  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  sliced  hard 
boiled  eggs.  Lucille  Parr. 

3 


22 

Fried  Young  Guinea. 

Sprinkle  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in  skillet  in 
boiling  hot  lard.  Turn  often  until  brown  and  thoroughly 
done,  which  would  be  in  about  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Wilmer  L.  Ford. 

Stewed  Guinea. 

Put  guinea,  cut  in  pieces,  in  just  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover  well.  Let  come  to  a  boil  again.  Cover,  set  on 
back  of  stove,  where  it  will  keep  boiling  hot,  but  not  boil. 
Time  of  cooking  will  vary  according  to  age  of  guinea  ;  an 
old  guinea  may  require  one-half  day.  When  done,  add 
one  egg,  beaten  well,  into  thickening;  add  pepper  and 
salt.    Let  thicken,  and  serve.  0.  H.  M. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Roil  the  chicken  until  tender,  take  out  all  bones,  chop 
meat  very  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of 
butter.  Add  to  the  liquor  the  chicken  was  boiled  in,  one 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  made  soft  with  hot  water,  and  to 
this  add  the  chopped  chicken.  Heat  slightly  and  pour  in 
mould.  Garnish  with  sliced  boiled  eggs  and  lettuce  or 
parsley.  L.  E.  Hague. 

Chicken   Sausage. 

A  good  way  to  use  old  chickens.  Boil  till  tender,  then 
free  from  bones,  and  run  through  food  chopper;  put  some 
of  the  broth  in  so  the  chicken  will  not  be  too  dry;  season 
with  salt,  sage  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Roll  crackers 
and  mix  with  chicken,  then  make  in  pats  and  fry  a  nice 
brown.  Mrs.  John  W.  Robinson,  Sr. 

Mocked   Chicken. 

One  cold  boiled  chicken.  Cut  as  for  salad  and  put  on 
the  stove  in  some  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled. 
Mix  with  a  little  of  the  water  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
one  tea>poon  mustard.  Stir  this  into  chicken,  take  from 
lire,  then  add  four  eggs,  well  mixed,  but  not  beaten. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  U. 


GAME. 

Wild  Duck  and  Goose. 

Season  well  and  rub  with  lard.  Put  in  hot  oven  with  a 
little  water,  being  careful  to  lay  on  side,  so  that  wing  and 
leg,  tough  parts,  are  in  the  water.  Turn  and  baste  fre- 
quently, adding  water  if  necessary.  It  is  best  to  let  water 
cook  out  and  baste  with  the  grease  several  times  before 
removing  from  the  oven.  Large  duck  requires  an  hour; 
small  one,  less  time.     Goose  in  proportion  to  its  size. 

M.  B.  P. 

A    Fricassed  Rabbit  and  Musk  Rat. 

After  soaking  over  night  in  salted  water,  rinse  in  clear 
water.  Put  in  skillet  nearly  covered  with  cold  water,  add 
onion,  if  liked.  Cook  about  one-half  hour  or  until  tender, 
take  out,  flour,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  brown  in 
a  hot  skillet.  Take  out  rabbit,  put  on  hot  platter.  Sift 
flour  into  grease  until  smooth  and  brown,  add  water  in 
which  rabbit  was  cooked,  season  if  necessary.  Let  thicken 
and  pour  over  rabbit.  .      Mrs.  Wilmer  L.  Ford. 

Frogs'  Legs,  No.  1. 

Skin  frogs,  clean  thoroughly,  let  soak  in  salted  water 
two  hours.  Wash  in  clean  water  and  beat  one  egg  (this 
is  sufficient  for  several  frogs),  in  bowl.  Put  in  frogs'  legs, 
stir  well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  as  much 
sifted  flour  as  the  eggs  and  frogs  will  take  up.  Fry  in  hot 
skillet  with  lard,  and  serve.  O.  H.  M. 

>C  Musk   Rats — Mock   Terrapin. 

Boil  two  musk  rats  tender  until  they  leave  the  bone,  add 
a  little  salt.  Drain  water  off  and  cut  fine.  Put  on  stove 
and  just  cover  with  water.  Mix  well  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  the  yolks  of  5  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  smooth 
with  one  raw  egg  beaten  in  them,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sifted  flour,  one  scant  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one  cup 
vinegar  and  stir  this  in  the  boiling  musk  rat.  Add  the 
chopped  whites.  If  not  thick  enough  add  a  little  flour  and 
boil  a  few  minutes.  The  musk  rat  should  be  soaked  all 
night  in  salted  water.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Hossinger. 


24 
DUMPLINGS 


Drop   Dumplings. 

Beat  one  egg  until  smooth  and  light,  add  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  Hour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Mix  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
with  the  last  of  the  flour  and  beat  well.  Drop  by  tea- 
spoonful into  the  hot  gravy,  cover  and  cook  fifteen  min- 
utes. L.  E.  Hague. 
Noodles. 

Two  cupfuls  well-sifted  flour,  two  eggs.  Put  flour  in 
bowl  in  which  break  eggs,  beat  with  fork,  beating  eggs 
first,  gradually  mixing  in  Hour.  Cut  off  pieces,  roll  very 
thin,  hang  up  to  dry.  Keep  turning  to  dry  evenly,  but  do 
not  let  get  too  dry  as  it  will  crumble.  To  save  time  place 
layer  one  on  top  of  the  other,  roll  together,  and  cut    line. 

Mks.  Charles  Walter. 

Potato  Dumplings. 

Cook  a  quarter  peck  of  white  potatoes  in  their  skins. 
When  done,  peel  and  mash  with  salt,  pepper,  one  egg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  and  enough  flour  to  make  t he- 
potatoes  stiff  enough  to  form  round  balls.  Have  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  over  a  hot  fire,  and  drop  the  dumplings  in 
one  at  a  time.     Let  them  cook  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  Mary  Miller. 


EGGS 


Baked   Eggs — Whole. 

Butter  a  baking  dish.  Break  as  many  eggs  in  a  pan  as 
you  need  for  the  meal,  season  witli  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
lumps  of  butter  over  them  and  about  one  tablespoonful  of 
cream  or  rich  milk  to  one  egg.  Bake  in  oven  for  three  or 
five  minutes  or  until  whites  are  cooked.  I.  C.  S. 


25 

Eggs,  With  Tomatoes. 

Cook  one  can  of  tomatoes  fifteen  minutes,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  little  butter.  Just  before  serving  drop  in 
as  many  eggs  as  there  are  persons  to  be  served.  Cook 
two  or  three  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while. 

Mrs.  R.  P.  Nichols. 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs. 

Have  saucepan  on  stove  with  water  enough  to  well  cover 
number  of  eggs  to  be  used,  boiling  hard.  Add'eggs,  cover, 
remove  from  stove,  cook  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Crowding. 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs. 

Proceed  as  above,  but  after  adding  eggs  and  covering,  re- 
move to  back  of  stove,  where  water  will  keep  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  but  not  boil,  for  one-half  hour.  Hard-boiled 
eggs  cooked  this  way  are  easily  digested.  O.  H.  M. 

Scrambled    Eggs. 

Four  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  until  mixed, 
add  cream,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  mixture  in  hot  skillet. 
Do  not  stir  until  mixture  has  formed,  then  stir  gently. 
Remove  from  fire  when  set,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Robinson. 

Scrambled  Eggs  With  Tomatoes. 

Five  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-quarter  cup 
of  milk,  one  cupful  of  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Into  the  food  pan  over  boiling  water  put  the  butter,  then 
put  in  the  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  up  with  the  milk. 
Add  a  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes  drained  and  chopped 
line.     Serve  directly  from  the  pan  into  hot  platter. 

Mrs.  John  W.  Robinson,  Sr. 

Scrambled  Eggs   With   Onions. 

One-half  dozen  eggs,  three  large  onions,  chopped  fine. 
Brown  onions  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat  eggs 
until  light,  pour  in  skillet,  cook  until  formed,  mix  onions. 
Serve  with  parsley.  Mrs.  Ralph  Robinson. 


26 

Deviled  Eggs. 

Boil  eggs  hard  and  put  into  cold  water.  When  cool  re- 
move the  shells,  cut  the  eggs  in  half  and  take  out  the 
yolks.  Ruh  these  to  a  powder  and  add  pepper,  salt,  a  lit- 
tle pinch  of  mustard,  a  little  melted  butter,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Make  this  into  balls  about  the  size 
and  shape  of  the  yolks,  and  restore  them  to  their  places 
between  the  whites.  Keep  these  in  place  with  a  tooth- 
pick. Mrs.  Ruth  E.  Cooped. 

Egg  Omelette. 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 
light.  One  pint  of  new  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  add  whites  of  eggs  last.  Have  omelette  pan  or 
skillet  hot  on  top  of  stove,  have  pan  well  buttered  or  use 
small  quantity  of  lard,  add  omelette.  Let  it  get  well  set, 
then  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  until  it  rises  well,  and 
is  a  nice  brown.    Serve  on  hot  dish.         Mary  R.  Bowers. 


VEGETABLES. 


Time  Table  for  Boiling  Vegetables. 

Corn   10  to  20  min.     Carrots   (more  if  old)  30  min. 

Potatoes   30      "        Turnips   50 

Asparagus    20  to  30     "       Onions  30     " 

Peas   20  to  30     "        Parsnips   40     " 

Beans,  fresh  30     "       Cauliflower   40  to  60     " 

Beans,  dried  3  hrs.     Spinach    15      " 

Beets  1  to    3      "        Sweet  Potatoes  50      " 

Brussels  Sprouts  20  min.     Squash    25      " 

Cabbage    (new). .20  to  45 

Strong  juiced  vegetables — onions,  cabbage,  turnips — 
should  be  cooked  uncovered  in  liberal  amount  of  boiling 
salted  water,  and  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Helen  L.  Com  stock. 


27 

Creamed  Vegetables. 

Add  to  one  pint  cooked  vegetables  one  cup  well-sea- 
soned cream  sauce  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  if  desired. 
Heat  well.  Serve.  Nearly  all  vegetables  are  fine  served 
this  way.  Ladies  of  Still  Pond  Grange. 

Scalloped  Vegetables. 

One  and  one-half  cups  well-seasoned  cream  or  cheese 
sauce,  one  quart  cooked  vegetables.  Butter  baking  dish. 
Alternate  layers  of  vegetables  and  sauce.  Place  a  few 
fine  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Dot  with  butter.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  one-half  hour. 

Ladies  of  Still  Pond  Grange. 

Creamed  Parsnips. 

Boil  tender,  scrape  and  slice  lengthwise,  put  over  fire, 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  suit 
taste  and  a  little  minced  parsley.  Shake  until  mixture 
boils.  Take  up  the  parsnips,  add  to  the  mixture  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  in  which  has  been  stirred 
a  little  flour.     Boil  once  and  pour  over  the  parsnips. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Duyer. 

Creamed   Onions. 

Boil  one  dozen  small  onions  until  tender.  Drain  water 
off.  Add  one  pint  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.     Thicken  just  a  little,  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Thompson. 

Corn    Pudding. 

One  quart  crushed  corn  (canned  or  fresh),  two  eggs 
(well  beaten),  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  sugar, 
one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  small  piece  of  butter,  salt  to 
taste.     Place  in  dish  and  bake  for  half  hour. 

Nancy  Price. 

Buttered  Carrots. 

Pare  and  dice  carrots;  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
Drain  well,  put  in  hot  dish,  place  butter  over  the  top,  and 
serve.  -  M.  M. 


28 

Potato   Puffers. 

One  pint  mashed  potatoes,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  one  cup  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful baking  powder.  Mix  and  roll  on  board  with  hand  until 
four  inches  in  length  and  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  di- 
ameter.    Fry  like  doughnuts  and  service  while  hot. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Taylor. 

Potato  Puff. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  and  stir  into 
it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  beaten  to  a  white 
cream  before"  adding  anything  else.  Then  put  with  this 
two  eggs,  whipped  very  light,  and  one  teacupful  cream  or 
milk.  Season,  beat  well,  pour  in  a  baking  dish  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  I.  C.  S. 

Baked    Potatoes. 

Bake  six  medium-sized  petatoes  until  well  done.  Cut 
each  potato  carefully  and  remove  the  inside.  Mix  with 
butter  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  hot  milk,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Beat  well.  Put  back  into  the  shell  and  brown. 
Add  grated  cheese  if  liked.  A.  H.  P. 

Baked    Macaroni. 

Take  one  box  macaroni,  cook  until  tender,  then  drain 
until  dry.  Put  in  a  baking  pan,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Beat  up  three  eggs  and  one  quart  of  milk  and  cover 
the  macaroni  with  this,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
brown.  Mrs.  Ruth  E.  Cooper. 

Baked    Pumpkin. 

Butter  dish.  Alternate  layer  of  pumpkin  sliced  thin  and 
layer  of  sugar  and  butter.  Bake  in  slow  oven  until  tender 
and  syrup  rich.  M.  B.  P. 

Escalloped   Tomatoes. 

Six  medium-sized  tomatoes,  two  onions,  one  cup  bread 
crumbs,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Peel  tomatoes  and  cut  in  half. 
Butter  dish,  alternate  layer  of  tomatoes,  bread  crumbs, 
sugar  and  seasoning.     Bake  in  slow  oven.  M.  B.  1'. 


29 

Baked  Sweet  Pepper. 

Take  green  sweet  peppers,  core,  being  careful  to  re- 
move all  seeds.  Stuff  with  dressing  made  of  finely  broken 
bread,  well  mixed  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  onion  and 
chopped  celery  or  parsley,  and  a  little  chopped  up  ham. 
Stuff  peppers,  place  in  pan  small  enough  so  they  will 
stand.  Put  in  a  little  water,  bake  half  an  hour,  or  until 
tender.  Mrs.  W.  D.  P. 

Hominy. 

Wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  then  cover  with 
water  over  night.  In  the  morning  set  on  stove  and  boil 
slowly  six  hours  or  longer  until  grains  are  soft  ;  when 
nearly  done,  add  salt  to  taste.  Mrs.  M.  R.  Wilson. 

Hominy. 

Put  a  thick  coating  of  cold  lard  on  bottom  of  kettle. 
Wash  one  quart  hominy  and  put  in  covered  kettle  with 
one  pound  of  fat,  salted  pork  and  two  gallons  cold  water. 
Place  on  stove  and  keep  boiling  and  replenishing  with  hot 
water  for  six  hours.  Then  remove  cover  and  let  boil  down 
as  dry  as  necessary.     Do  not  stir  while  cooking. 

A.  W.  R. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  cream, 
one  teaspoonful  onion  juice,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one 
tablcspoonful  chopped  parsley,  dash  red  pepper,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Mix  and  cook  until  pota- 
toes leave  sides  of  pan.  Set  away  to  cool.  Mould  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  white  of  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs,  and 
fry.  M  RS.  L.  B.  Harper. 

Potato   Balls. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  as  for  mashed  potatoes.  While 
hoi  shape  in  balls  the  size  of  an  egg.  Have  a  tin  plate 
buttered  and  place  balls  upon  it.  Brush  all  over  with 
beaten  eggs.  Brown  in  the  oven  when  done.  Slip  knife 
under  them  and  slide  on  a  hot  platter.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  K.   P.    MeGEE. 


30 

Saratoga    Chips. 

Peel  and  slice  very  thin  (preferably  with  a  regular  po- 
tato chipper),  four  large  potatoes  and  let  them  lay  in  cold 
water  two  hours,  then  thoroughly  dry  with  a  clean  towel. 
Drop  each  slice  separately  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  lard.  Fry 
until  crisp  and  brown.    Take  out  with  wire  egg  beater. 

Committee. 
Potatoes  and  Cheese. 

Heap  a  baking  platter  with  hot  mashed  potatoes,  scoop 
out  center  and  fill  with  cream  sauce  in  which  has  been 
melted  grated  cheese.  Brush  potatoes  with  white  of  egg 
and  brown  quickly.  Serve  immediately.  This  is  also  very 
nice  served  in  ramekins.  Hattie  Barnard  Collins. 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  boil  in  slightly  salted  water.  Pour  off  the 
water,  add  salt  and  butter  to  suit  taste.  Mash  well  and 
beat  with  one  egg.  Put  in  well-buttered  pan,  and  place  in 
oven  to  brown.    Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Walter  Moffett. 

Peas  and  Riced  Potatoes. 
One  quart  of  shelled  peas.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
to  half  a  gallon  of  water  and  two  or  three  sprigs  of  mint. 
Cook  in  an  uncovered  saucepan.  When  done,  drain  and 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  sea- 
son.   Serve  hot  with  a  border  of  riced  potatoes. 

Lillias  W.  Ford. 
Peas  and  Carrots. 
One  cupful  of  cooked  diced  carrots  and  one  cupful  of 
either  canned  or  freshly  cooked  peas.     Let  all  come  to  a 
boil  in  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  cream  sauce. 

Edna  Wroth. 
Baked    Macaroni    With    Tomatoes. 
Butter  a  dish,  alternate  layers  of  boiled  macaroni,  toma- 
toes, salt  and  pepper.     Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top  and 
bake  until  brown.  I.  C.  S. 

Baked   Macaroni   With  Cheese. 
Proceed  as  in  the  above,  except  alternate  the  layers  of 
macaroni  with  layers  of  grated  cheese  and  dot  generously 
with  butter.  Add  a  cup  of  rich  milk  and  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  R.  D.  Moore. 


31 

Boiled  Rice. 

One  quart  water,  boiling  hard,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  rice.  Pour  rice  slowly 
into  boiling  water.  Do  not  stir.  Boil  for  five  minutes, 
then  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  about  an  hour  or  until 
thoroughly  done.  Committee. 

Fried  Mushrooms. 

First  be  sure  you  have  mushrooms.  Then  peel,  wash 
thoroughly,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  in  butter. 

Mrs.  John  Kinsey. 

Baked   Beans — Boston. 

One  pint  of  beans,  one-quarter  pound  salt  pork,  one 
tablespoonful  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  flour,  one-half 
teaspoonful  mustard,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  soda.  Soak 
beans  over  night,  parboil  early  in  the  morning,  taking 
care  not  to  break  them.  Add  soda,  stir  up.  Mix  flour, 
mustard  and  molasses  in  a  paste ;  add  to  beans.  Place 
pork  in  center  of  pot  or  dish,  pour  beans  around  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  six  hours  or  longer,  keeping  covered.  If 
water  boils  away,  add  more.  If  needed,  add  a  little  salt  to 
the  beans  before  baking,  though  the  pork  is  generally  all 
that  is  needed.  M.  R.  W. 

Hot  Slaw. 

Cut  a  small  head  of  cabbage  with  slaw  cutter.  Cook 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  half  teaspoonful  celery 
seed,  and  half  a  teacupful  of  water  for  about  half  an  hour, 
or  until  water  boils  out.  Beat  two  eggs  and  one-half  cup- 
ful vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Stir  in  cabbage  and  serve  immediately.  M.  B.  P. 

Boiled    Cabbage. 

Drop  in  boiling,  salted  water,  cook  for  thirty  minutes. 
When  done  put  in  a  covered  dish,  add  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  large  piece  of  butter.  If  you  like  the  meat  flavor,  add  a 
bouillon  cube.  ,Pour  a  cream  dressing  over  the  cabbage, 
if  desired.  I.  Q  S. 


32 
BUTTERS    AND    SAUCES 


Lemon   Butter,  No.  1. 

Juice  and  rind  of  three  lemons.  One  pound  of  sugar,  six 
eggs,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add 
the  other  ingredients.     Boil  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.  Edward  W.  Ford. 

Lemon   Butter,   No.  2. 

One  lemon,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  cold  water,  one 
teaspoonful  cornstarch,  small  piece  of  butter,  two  eggs. 

Mrs.  Maxwell  Meeks. 

Peanut  Butter. 

Use  the  nut  butter  knife  of  your  food  chopper  and  grind 
up  the  desired  amount  of  freshly  shelled  peanuts.  Place 
in  pan  on  back  of  stove  and  heat  gradually,  adding  enough 
pure  butter  to  give  the  correct  smoothness  and  softness, 
and  enough  salt  to  taste.  Add  a  little  olive  oil  if  very  dry. 
Heat  the  mass  gradually  until  butter  is  melted  and  the 
peanut  butter  is  smooth  enough  to  spread  easily. 

Mrs.  R.  D.  Moore. 
Cream   Sauce. 

To  make  :  Melt  butter  in  saucepan  and  mix  in  flour  till 
smooth.  Add  milk,  gradually  stirring  all  the  while  it 
thickens  ;  then  season. 

Quantities  used  as  follows  : 

One-to-one  Sauce — Used  for  cream  soups,  one  cupful 
milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour. 

One-to-one  Sauce — Used  for  creamed  or  scalloped 
dishes,  one  cupful  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  flour. 

One-to-three  Sauce — Used  for  souffles,  one  cupful  milk, 
three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

One-to-four  Sauce — Used  for  croquettes,  one  cupful 
milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Helen  L.  Com  stock. 


Drawn   Butter  Sauce. 

One-third  cupful  butter,  two  t'ablespoonfuls  Sour,  one- 
quarter   teaspoonful   each  of   salt   and    Bee    Brand    white 

pepper,  one  cupful  cold  water.  Melt  half  the  butter  in 
shallow  saucepan,  add  flour  and  cook  until  frothy;  add 
seasoning,  then  water  and  stir  constantly  until  mixture 
boils.  Let  boil  about  three  minutes,  then  beat  in  rest  of 
butter,  a  little  at  a  time. 

Taken  from  "McCormick's  Manual  ok  Cookery." 

Cheese  Sauce. 

To  be  eaten  over  macaroni  or  rice  as  a  substitute  for 
meat.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  mix  in  two 
tablespoon fuls  of  flour  till  smooth,  then  add  one-half  pint 
of  milk  and  lastly  one-half  pound  of  cheese  (grated  or  cut 
in  small  pieces),  Alice  Maxwell. 

Cranberry   Sauce. 

One  quart  cranberries,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
water.  Wash  thoroughly,  add  the  water  and  boil  quickly 
until  they  burst;  it  is  best  to  cover  them,  keeping  in  the 
steam.  Stir  with  wooden  spoon.  It  will  take  about  ten 
minutes.  Press  through  a  colander  (if  it  is  desired  to  free 
them  of  skin).  Return  to  the  tire,  and  add  sugar  and  stir 
over  the  lire  until  they  reach  the  boiling  point. 

Mrs.  M.  K.  Wilson. 

Sultana    Sauce. 

Simmer  a  half  cupful  of  raisins  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
until  tender,  an  hour  will  be  none  too  long.  Add  a  level 
tablespoon  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  half  a  cup  of  cold 
water  and  let  cook  ten  minutes,  add  tw.o  tablespoons  of 
butter,  a  cup  of  sugar  and  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Serve  with 
cornstarch  or  rice.  Ai.uk  Maxwell. 

Vanilla  Sauce. 
One  cup  sugar,  butter  size  <>!"  walnut,  beat  together;  one 
egg,  one   teaspoon   cornstarch,   one   teacup   boiling   water, 
set  on  stove  till  it  thickens.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Louise  Toulsox. 


34 

Hard  Sauce. 

Cream  two  ounces  of  butter,  add  powdered  sugar  to  the 
right  consistency  and  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg.  Last- 
ly add  a  few  drops  of  flavoring.  Committee. 

Chocolate   Sauce. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  tablespoon  flour,  small 
pinch  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one-half  cup  boil- 
ing water,  one-half  square  Baker's  chocolate,  two  table- 
spoons sugar.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  dry  flour  and 
salt.  Mix  till  smooth,  add  slowly  hot  water,  beating  well. 
Add  the  chocolate  and  sugar,  stir  till  melted.  Add  vanilla 
just  before  serving.  Mrs.  Clarence  Ford. 


SALADS 


Salad  Dressing,  No.  1. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  beat  very  light,  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  mustard,  three-quarters  cup 
of  vinegar,  one-quarter  cup  of  water.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  thick  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter  when 
taken  from  the  fire.     Mix  with  cream  when  used. 

Mrs.  B.  S.  Hay  wood. 

Salad  Dressing,  No.  2. 

One  egg,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk, 
three-quarters  cup  vinegar,  one-quarter  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, three  teaspoons  flour,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Beat 
egg  and  sugar  together,  add  milk  and  butter,  mix  flour 
and  mustard  with  vinegar,  pour  all  together  and  let  cook 
for  a  few  minutes.  Elizabeth  Jewell. 

Mayonnaise  Salad  Dressing,  No.  1. 

Put  the  uncooked  yolk  of  an  egg  on  a  cold  plate,  beat 
well  with  a  silver  fork,  add  a  salt  spoon  of  mustard  and 
twice  as  much  salt,  then  mix  in  a  little  olive  oil,  just  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  until  it  is  about  like  whipped  cream. 
Then  bring  to  the  desired  consistency  with  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice.  Mary  Harris. 


Mayonnaise  Salad  Dressing,  No.  2. 

For  a  ready  prepared  salad  dressing  McCormick's  Bee 
Brand  Mayonnaise  Dressing  is  unsurpassed. 

Apple  and  Cabbage  Salad. 

To  two  parts  chopped  apple  and  one  part  chopped  cab- 
bage add  a  few  chopped  nuts.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  add 
just  enough  McCormick's  Mayonnaise  Dressing  to  mois- 
ten well.  O.  H.  M. 

Potato    Salad. 

Three  cups  of  cold  potatoes  cut'  in  dice  shape,  seasoned 
to  taste.  Pour  over  it  the  following  dressing:  Take  one- 
half  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Put  on  stove 
to  boil  and  add  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Beat  two  eggs 
with  one-half  cup  sugar  and  pour  into  the  boiling  vinegar. 
Add  one-half  teaspoon  celery  seed  and  let  boil  until  thick. 
Do  not  pour  over  potatoes  until  cold.  S.  A.  P. 

California   Salad. 

Oranges,  Bermuda  onions.  Slice  oranges  and  onions, 
placing  one  slice  of  onion  between  two  of  the  oranges,  in 
a  sandwich  form.  Put  this  on  lettuce  leaves.  Over  all 
pour  a  cooked  dressing.  B.  S.  Haywood. 

Bronson   Salad. 

In  an  earthen  howl  mix  together  one-half  can  of  peas, 
drain  the  liquor,  add  two  cucumber  pickles  and  Bermuda 
onion  chopped  fine,  and  two  tablespoons  of  cheese 
crumbled  fine.  Lightly  toss  some  mayonnaise  through  the 
mixture  and  turn  the  salad  into  a  bowl  lined  with  lettuce. 
Do1  over  with  bits  of  dressing  ornamented  with  nut 
meats.  Lii.i.ias  W.  Ford. 

Banana  Salad. 

Take  one  banana  for  each  person.  Peel  banana  and  lay 
on  lettuce  leaves.  Pour  over  this  the  following  dressing: 
Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  vinegar  mixed  with 
one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one-half  cup  cold  water  mixed 
with  one  teaspoon  cornstarch,  one  teaspoon  sugar.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Alter  this  has  boiled  and  thickened, 
stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Garnish  each 
banana  with  one  tablespoon  chopped  English  walnuts. 

R.  D.  H. 


36 

Cherry   Salad. 

Remove  stones  from  large  canned  white  cherries  and 
fill  cavities  with  blanched  almonds  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaf  with  French  dressing.  H.  B.  C. 

Cranberry   Salad. 

Make  individual  moulds  of  cranberry  jelly.  Sprinkle 
over  each  nut  meats,  olives  and  celery  chopped  fine.  Serve 
on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  and  salted  wafers.     H.  B.  C. 

Slaw  or  Cabbage   Salad. 

To  make  the  egg  and  milk  dressing,  beat  one  egg  and 
add  a  mixture  of  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  mustard.  Pour  a  cup  of 
milk  into  the  whole,  put  it  on  the  fire  and  bring  it  to  a 
boil.  When  it  has  boiled  add  one-half  cup  vinegar  and 
salt  to  taste.  Stand  aside  to  cool.  At  serving  time,  mix 
it  with  dried,  cold,  shredded  cabbage. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Parrott. 

Waldorf  Salad. 

Three  cups  apples,  pared  and  diced;  one-half  to  one  cup 
nut  meats,  cut  in  small  pieces,  black  walnuts  preferred; 
one  and  one-half  to  two  cups  celery,  cut  finely.  Any  good 
salad  dressing  in  which  milk  or  cream  is  used  will  an- 
swer with  a  little  less  vinegar  and  a  little  more  sugar  than 
the  average  dressing  and  seasoned  well  with  salt,  mus- 
tard, and  a  small  small  pinch  of  cayenne.  Use  just  enough 
dressing  to  moisten  all  ingredients.  O.  H.  M. 

Chicken   Salad,  No.  1. 

One  chicken  and  two-thirds  as  much  celery,  cut  fine; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  dressing  made  as  follows  : 
Four  eggs,  three-quarters  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
three-quarters  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  chicken  oil.  Boil 
vinegar  and  water  together,  beat  sugar,  eggs  and  oil  to- 
gether and  one-half  teaspoonful  mustard.  Pour  this  in  the 
boiling  vinegar.     Let  this  cool.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Price. 


Chicken  Salad,  No.  2. 

One  boiled  chicken  (well  salted),  cut  fine  as  much  celery 
as  chicken;  lour  eggs,  two  raw  and  two  boiled  hard;  tea 
mful     mustard,     one-quarter     teaspoon      red     pepper 

(scant),  two  cups  vinegar,  one  cup  oil  from  chicken  or 
one-quarter  cup  olive  oil.  Mash  the  yolks  of  cooked  eggs 
very  smooth,  beat  in  the  yolks  of  raw  eggs;  mix  mustard 
with  vinegar,  add  to  eggs;  also  add  red  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Cook  until  it  thickens;  when  cold,  beat  whites  of 
raw  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  dressing  hefore  pouring 
over  chicken  and  celery.  Cut  the  whites  of  cooked  eggs 
and  mix  with  cut-up  chicken  and  celery.  If  too  thick,  thin 
with  cream.  L.  B.  H. 


DESSERTS. 


Russian  Apples. 
Pare  and  core  large,  tart  apples;  fill  centers  with  mince- 
meat; place  in  baking  pan  and  sprinkle  generously  with 
sugar.  Pour  in  a  little  boiling  water  and  bake  half  an 
hour,  hasting  often.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce  flavored 
with  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Hattie  Bernard  Collins. 

Apple  Jonathan. 
Peel  and  slice  very  thin  four  or  five  good  baking  apples  ; 
place  in  a  deep  pudding  dish  with  a  tablespoonful  cold 
water.  Make  a  batter  of  one-third  cupful  butter,  one 
large  cupful  sugar,  two  eggs,  beaten  thoroughly;  two 
large  cupfuls  flour,  with  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der and  one  teaspoonful  salt  sifted  together.  Pour  the 
batter  over  the  apples,  let  stand  live  or  ten  minutes,  bake 
thirty  minutes.     Serve  with  cream  or  custard  sauce. 

M.   H.  H. 
Baked  Apples. 

Peel  and  core  the  desired  amount  of  tart  apples.  Make 
a  rich  syrup  and  parboil  until  nearly  done,  then  put  in  the 
oven  to  biown.  If  used  for  a  desserl  serve  with  chopped 
nuts  and  whipped  cream.  Marv  Harper    Harris. 

4 


38 

Apple  Custard. 

To  one  quart  of  apple  sauce  add  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
sugar  to  taste,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  of  milk, 
two  heaping  tahlespoonfuls  flour.  Flavor  to  taste.  Cover 
with  meringue  and  brown  in  oven.        Mrs.  H.  M.  Rasin. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. 

One  large  cupful  McCormick's  Pearl  Tapioca,  three 
pints  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  essence  of  lemon,  three  pints  of  pared  and  quar- 
tered apples.  Wash  the  tapioca  and  soak  over  night  in 
three  pints  of  cold  water  (three  hours  will  do  if  there  is 
no  more  time).  Put  the  tapioca  in  the  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  it  looks  clear.  It  will  take  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes.  When  cooked  enough  add  the  sugar,  salt 
and  lemon,  and  then  the  apples.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish 
and  bake  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Let  cool.  Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream.  O.  H.  M. 

Apple   Meringue. 

Peel,  core  and  cut  in  half  eight  large  baking  apples. 
Arrange  on  a  well-buttered  tin.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  a 
little  cinnamon  and  a  little  butter.  Bake  until  the  apples 
are  soft  and  a  light  brown.  Beat  to  a  snow  the  whites  of 
four  eggs,  add  a  little  sugar.  Arrange  your  apples  in  the 
middle  of  a  dish  and  cover  with  the  meringue,  sprinkle 
with  a  few  dropped  almonds  and  brown  in  a  gentle  oven. 

M.  H    H. 

Apples  With  Rice. 

Eight  small  apples,  one-half  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  two 
tahlespoonfuls  butter,  one  cup  of  cooked  rice  (hot),  two 
cups  of  milk  and  three  eggs.  Arrange  the  pared  and 
cored  apples  in  a  baking  dish  and  fill  the  cavities  with 
currant  jelly;  surround  with  rice  which  has  been  mixed 
with  the  hot  milk,  butter,  raisins,  egg  yolks  and  flavoring. 
Cook  in  oven  until  apples  are  tender.  Cover  with  a  mer- 
ingue made  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  powdered 
sugar  and  return  to  oven  to  brown.  This  is  good  either 
hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  F.  B.  Harper, 


39 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings. 
Two-thirds  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  yeast  powder,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  salt 
to  taste.  Put  potatoes  in  saucepan  and  cook  until  well 
done,  then  mash,  add  flour,  salt  and  yeast  powder  and  roll 
in  round  pieces.  Pare  and  core  apples;  use  whole  or  in 
pieces;  roll  in  the  dough  and  boil  in  separate  bags.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  cream  or  with  sauce.  This  will  serve  three 
persons.  Mrs.  W.  D.  Pexxixgtox. 

Oranges  With  Cranberries. 

One  cup  of  cranberries,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of 
water,  two  oranges.  Wash  and  pick  over  the  cranberries, 
put  on  to  boil  with  two  cups  of  water.  Put  over  a  very 
hot  fire  so  they  will  boil  at  once.  Cover  for  a  few  min- 
utes, remove  cover  and  mash  ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  for 
three  minutes.  Mash  through  a  colander  first  and  then 
through  a  fine  strainer,  so  no  seeds  will  get  through.  Set 
aside  to  get  cold.  Pare  the  oranges  as  you  would  apples, 
removing  all  the  white;  chip  the  oranges  very  fine,  put 
into  sherbet  glasses  and  pour  over  them  the  cranberry 
juice.     This  will  serve  four  persons. 

.Mrs.  Stanley  Matthews. 

Rice    Dumplings. 

Take  one  cup  of  rice,  boil  in  clear  water  until  done  and 
dry:  divide  in  six  parts.  Take  one-half  of  a  can  of  peaches 
cover  the  top  of  peaches  with  raisins,  mold  the  rice 
around  the  peaches  and  boil  like  you  do  an  apple  dump- 
ling in  a  cloth.     Serve  with   hoi   sauce. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Parrott. 

Cottage   Pudding. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  two 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder  sifted  with  one  pint  of  Hour.  Hake  half  an  hour 
and  serve  with  lemon  sauce.  J.  B.   .\f. 

Hasty   Fruit   Pudding. 
One  pinl    of   fruit   (cherries  are  best),  one  cupful  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
water  enough  for  stiff  batter.    Heat  fruit  and  add  water, 


40 

if  necessary.  Mix  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  then  add 
water.  Drop  batter  from  spoon  into  hot  cherries,  cover 
and  boil  ten  minutes.    Serve  with  hard  sauce.      O.  H.  M. 

Marshmallow  Loaf. 
Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  Knox  Gelatin  in  one-half 
cup  of  hot  water,  stir  into  this  the  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs  ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  cold  wa- 
ter; beat  for  one  minute.  Divide  this  mixture  into  three 
or  four  parts,  flavoring  each  differently  and  coloring  each 
differently  with  vegetable  coloring  matter.  Let  this  stand 
until  it  is  stiffened  so  the  mixture  will  not  run.  Dust  a 
loaf  cake  tin  with  powdered  sugar.  Put  in  one  color, 
sprinkle  with  chopped  walnuts  and  raisins;  then  in  turn 
put  in  the  other  colors  with  chopped  nuts  and  raisins  be- 
tween each  layer.  Set  on  ice  to  harden.  Serve  in  slices 
with  whipped  cream  and  Maraschino  cherries. 

Daisy  M.  Barnett. 

Spanish    Cream. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  Knox  Gelatin  in  one-half  pint  of 
milk  for  one  hour;  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  put  in  a  deep  dish.  Put  one  quart  of  milk  on 
stove;  when  ready  to  boil  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  six 
eggs,  well  beaten  and  mixed  with  sugar  to  taste  and  the 
gelatin  ;  stir  until  it  thickens,  as  for  custard.  While  boil- 
ing hot,  pour  over  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  stirring  same. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  in  molds  and  let  stand  for  at 
least  four  hours.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Shallcross. 

Nut  Frappe. 

One-half  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  one-cpuar- 
ler  cup  cold  water,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  pineapple 
and  strawberries,  one  pint  cream,  white  of  one  egg,  one 
cup  chopped  nuts.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five 
minutes  and  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add  dissolved  gela- 
tine to  cream  and  sugar  and  stir  in  beaten  white  of  egg. 
When  cold,  add  the  pineapple  and  strawberries  which 
have  been  chopped  in  small  pieces  ;  also  the  chopped  nuts. 
Serve  ice  cold  in  sherbet  glasses.  K.  C. 


41 

Fruit  Gelatine. 

One  box  Knox  Gelatine,  two  cups  cold  water,  four  cups 
boiling  water,  two  cups  sugar,  four  lemons,  two  oranges, 
one-half  dozen  bananas,  one  large  cup  canned  pineapple 
and  sun-preserved  red  cherries.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the 
cold  water  five  minutes,  pour  in  boiling  water,  stirring 
until  dissolved;  continue  stirring  while  adding  sugar  until 
all  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Let  cool,  then  add  the  fruit — 
juice  of  lemons,  thoroughly  strained;  pulp  of  oranges 
(taken  out  with  spoon),  bananas  sliced  and  pineapples 
(cut  fine).  Pour  in  molds  and  let  stand  in  cool  place  until 
it  hardens.  Better  to  stir  several  times  as  it  begins  to 
thicken,  as  some  of  the  fruit  is  apt  to  sink  to  the  bottom. 

O.  H.   M. 

Lamon   Sponge   or   Snow   Pudding. 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  one  cup  sugar, 
whites  of  two  eggs,  three-quarters  pint  cold  water,  three- 
quarters  pint  boiling  watef,  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes.  Dis- 
solve in  boiling  water  and  add  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
the  lemons  and  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Strain  and  let 
stand  in  a  cool  place  until  nearly  set.  Then  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  beat  the  mixture  un- 
til it  is  light  and  spongy.  Put  lightly  into  glass  dish  or 
shape  in  mold.  Serve  with  a  thin  custard  made  of  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  or  cream  and  sugar.  Other  fruit  juices 
may  be  used,  keeping  the  same  proportions;  when  juice 
of  less  strength  than  that  of  lemon  is  used  it  may  take 
the  place  of  a  part  of  the  water.  In  this  case  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  to  each  quart  of  jelly  will  bring  out  the  flavor 
of  the  fruit.  K.  C. 

Plum  Pudding. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  suet,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup 
milk,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  raisins,  one-quarter  pound 
butter,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  mixed  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder.  Put  in  a  bag  and  boil  three 
hours.  Mrs.  G.  W.  Atwei.l. 


42 

Rice  Pudding. 

One-half  cup  of  rice  (scant),  one  quart  of  milk,  three- 
quarters  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Cook  about 
three  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Clarence  W.  Ford. 

Queen  of  Puddings. 

To  one  quart  of  milk  add  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs  and 
let  stand  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  beaten  light ;  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  melted  and  stirred 
in.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  put  the  pudding  in.  Bake 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  pudding  shrinks 
from  side  of  dish.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  light,  add  cup 
of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Spread  over  top  of 
pudding  jam  or  jelly,  then  add  meringue  made  as  above 
directed  and  brown  in  quick  oven.  Mrs.  J.  H.  K. 

Prune   Whippe. 

Take  one  pint  of  prunes,  wash  clean  and  cook  until  ten- 
der; let  them  stand  over  night*and  take  out  stones.  Whip 
together  the  prunes,  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  three- 
quarters  cup  of  sugar  until  light.  Beat  until  light  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  then  beat  the  eggs  with  the  prunes 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  twenty  minutes.  Serve  warm 
with  whipped  cream.  M.  R.  M. 

Cream   Puffs. 

Into  a  cup  of  boiling  water  put  one  cup  of  flour  and 
one-half  cup  of  butter;  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
cleaves  from  the  pan  like  putty.  Let  cool,  add  three  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  without  beating,  until  well  blended.  Put 
into  pans  in  neat  compact  dabs  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  M.  K.  Roseberry. 

Peaches. 

Fill  cavities  of  halves  of  peaches  (canned)  with  marsh- 
mallows  and  put  in  hot  oven  to  brown  quickly.  Serve  with 
the  juice,  two  to  each  person.  H.  B.  C. 

Pumpkin  Custard. 

One  quart  of  pumpkin  (cooked  and  strained),  one  cup 
of   milk,   one-half   cup   of   sugar,   one    teaspoonful    lemon 


43 

flavoring,  four  eggs,  beaten  separately;  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  flour,  wet  with  part  of  quart  of  milk;  one  nutmeg  and 
a  little  salt.  Bake  in  baking  dish  or  ramekins  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream  and  nuts  on  top. 

Hattie  Barnard  Collins. 

Tapioca  Custard. 

One-half  cup  of  instantaneous  tapioca,  one  quart  of 
milk,  two  eggs,  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  extract  vanilla.  Stir  tapi- 
oca into  two  cups  of  milk,  beat  egg  yolks  together,  add 
vanilla;  bring  balance  of  milk  to  boil  and  stir  in  the  mix- 
ture. Cook  two  minutes.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff 
broth,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and  put 
over  custard.    Brown  in  slow  oven.  Mary  C.  Norris. 

Cup  Custard. 

Though  the  usual  rule  for  a  custard  is  eight  eggs  to  a 
quart  of  milk,  a  good  custard  can  be  made  of  six  or  even 
less  eggs  with  the  addition  of  a  level  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch  thoroughly  blended  in  the  sugar  before  adding 
the  ingredients.  Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  milk  and  any  Bee 
Brand  Extract  or  flavoring  you  may  like.  Fill  custard 
cups,  sift  a  little  Bee  Brand  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  over  the 
tops,  set  them  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a  shallow  pan  half 
filled  with  hot  water.  In  about  twenty  minutes  try  them 
with  the  handle  of  a  teaspoon  to  see  if  they  are  firm. 
Judgment  and  care  is  needed  to  attain  skill  in  baking  cus- 
tard, for  if  left  in  the  oven  a  minute  too  long  or  the  fire  is 
too  hot  the  milk  will  certainly  whey. — Taken  from  "Mc- 
Cormick's  Manual  of  Cookery." 

Harper's  Delight. 

First  make  sponge  cake  as  follows :  Three  eggs,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  hot  water,  one  cup  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  a  little  salt.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  moderately  quick  oven. 

Custard  for  Cake. 

One  pint  milk,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  one  tablespoonful  cornstarch.     Boil  milk  in  double 


44 

boiler;  when  boiling,  add  eggs  and  sugar  well  mixed, 
cornstarch  also.  Stir  constantly.  As  soon  as  thick  re- 
move from  fire  and  let  cool  (best  very  cold).  About  two 
hours  before  using  cut  the  cake  in  squares  and  place  in 
dish.  Cut  four  oranges  in  small  pieces,  put  over  top  of 
cake  in  same  dish,  then  pour  the  custard  over  the  cake 
and  oranges.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  very  light, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  pile  on  top  of  custard. 
This  is  a  dish  fit  for  a  king.  L.  B.  H. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake. 

Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  two 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  four  level  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one 
cup  milk.  Bake  in  two  pie  plates.  Split  and  butter.  Have 
ready  one  and  one-half  or  two  quarts  of  sweetened 
strawberries.  Spread  between  layers,  reserving  whole 
ones  for  top.     Serve  with  cream.  Committee. 

English  Mincemeat. 

Three  pounds  chopped  apples,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
beef  suet,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half 
pound  citron,  one-half  pound  nuts,  candied  lemon  and 
orange  peel,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  cinnamon  and  salt, 
three-quarters  of  a  grated  nutmeg,  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon,  one  glass  of  brandy.  Mix  well  and  cover 
a  few  days  before  using.  Mary  Harper  Harris. 

Mincemeat. 

Three  pounds  boiled  beef,  one  pound  suet,  three  pounds 
brown  sugar,  one-half  peck  apples,  two  pounds  raisins, 
one  and  one-half  pound  currants,  one  pound  citron,  one 
grated  nutmeg,  allspice  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Chop  suet 
and  apples  fine.  Mix  them,  add  seasoning  and  citron. 
Pour  on  sweet  cider  enough  to  make  thick  batter. 

Mrs.  Albert  Jervis. 


45 

Frozen    Desserts 


Ice  Cream. 

One  gallon  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  four  eggs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  sweeten  to  taste.  Take  one 
quart  of  the  milk  and  put  it  on  the  stove  and  beat  the  yel- 
lows of  the  eggs  with  the  cornstarch;  add  to  the  milk  and 
let  it  cook;  then  put  the  sugar  in  and  remove  from  stove 
and  let  cool.  When  cool  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk 
and  cream.  Put  it  in  the  freezer  and  when  nearly  frozen 
heal  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  put  them  in.  Flavor  to 
taste.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Hackett. 

Orange  Water  Ice. 

Twelve  oranges,  three  lemons,  three  pounds  sugar,  three 
eggs,  three  quarts  water.  Boil  half  of  sugar  and  half  of 
water  together  for  ten  minutes,  then  let  it  cool.  Mix  to- 
gether juices  of  fruit  and  other  half  of  sugar  and  let  stand 
one  hour  to  ripen.  Combine  juice  and  syrup  and  add  the 
eggs  well  beaten.     This  makes  one  gallon  of  water  ice. 

Mrs.  K.  Ricards. 

Peach    Glace. 

One  quart  of  peaches,  strained;  one  quart  of  water, 
sweetened  very  sweet  ;  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Stir  one 
beaten  egg  in  just  before  freezing.  Mrs.  W.  D.  P. 

Fruit  Sherbet. 

One-half  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  (scant 
measure),  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  orange,  three 
cups  rich  milk,  one  lemon,  (irate  the  outside  of  both 
orange  and  lemon.  Squeeze  out  the  juice  and  add  to  this 
the  sugar.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  part  of  a  cup  of  milk  for 
five  minutes  and  dissolve  by  standing  in  pan  of  hot  water. 
Stir  in  the  rest  of  the  milk.  When  it  begins  to  freeze  add 
the  fruit  juice  and  sugar,  and  fruit  of  any  kind  if  desired. 
This  makes  a  large  allowance  for  rive  persons.  K.  C. 


46 

Frozen  Custard. 

This  quantity  makes  one  gallon  :  Six  eggs,  one  and  one- 
quarter  pounds  sugar,  one-quarter  bottle  (25-cent  size) 
vanilla.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  until  very  light.  Three 
quarts  milk.  Let  milk  come  to  boiling  point.  Pour  over 
eggs  and  sugar.  Pour  all  together.  Let  boil  until  it 
thickens.    Add  vanilla  after  it  cools. 

Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Baker. 


PIES 


The  general  formula  for  pie  crust  is  one  and  one-half 
cups  flour,  one-half  cup  fat  (lard  makes  the  flakier  crust), 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  salt,  water  to  moisten. 
Have  ingredients  cold  and  handle  as  little  as  possible. 

Committee. 

Lemon  Cake  Pie. 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  large  lemon,  two  scant 
tablespoons  flour,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk.  Mix  all  together 
and  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  bake  with  one  crust. 
When  baked  there  will  be  a  delicate  top  of  cake  on  the 
pie.  Mrs.  R.  P.  Nichols. 

Potato  Custard. 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  three  eggs,  cup  sugar,  one- 
half  teacup  of  butter,  two  cups  milk,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Beat  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  well-beaten  yolks. 
Add  this  to  potatoes,  beat  until  light,  add  milk  and  put  in 
baked  crust.  Cook  in  oven  about  one-half  hour  until  set. 
Add  well-beaten  whites  with  a  little  sugar  and  brown 
slightly.  Katie  B. 

Lemon  Custard. 

Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  add  the  juice,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  corn- 
starch.   Beat  until  light  and  smooth.    Then  add  teacup  of 


47 

boiling  water  and  butter  the  size  of  walnut  and  cook  until 
stiff  enough,  then  put  in  the  baked  pastry  and  cover  with 
the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  with  tablespoonful  sugar  and 
brown  slightly.  S.  C.  RASIN. 

Cocoanut  Custard. 

One  cocoanut,  grated;  four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter  milk  of  cocoanut  one  tablespoonful  corn- 
starch.    Beat  in  two  large  crusts.  Mary  C.  NORMS. 

Lemon  and  Raisin  Pie. 

Two  small  lemons,  teacupful  sugar,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoonful butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  two  and  one-half 
cups  boiling  water,  one  cup  raisins  (cooked  one  hour),  a 
little  salt.  Stir  the  flour  in  a  little  cold  water  and  mix  all, 
putting  in  the  beaten  egg  last  not  to  scald  it. 

A.  W.  Rasin. 

Apple  Custard. 

Six  large  tart  apples  (cooked),  two  ounces  butter,  one 
cup  milk,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg  (grated),  peel  of  lemon  and 
juice,  sugar  to  taste,  three  eggs.  Mix  well  together,  turn 
in  deep  pie  plates  lined  with  puff  paste.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  until  custard  is  set.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Howard. 

English  Apple  Pie. 

Butter  a  deep  pie  dish.  Fill  the  dish  with  sliced  apples, 
sprinkle  with  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Put 
over  it  two  teaspoonfuls  butter  in  bits  and  a  teaspoonful 
cold  water.  Cover  with  good  paste  and  bake  forty  min- 
utes.   Serve  with  cream.  M.  H.  H. 

Cream  Pie. 

One  quart  milk,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  three  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Mix  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt, 
moisten  with  milk,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  into  the  hot 
milk  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Put  in  baked  crust,  witli 
whites  of  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  beaten  stiff, 
placed  on  top.    Brown  in  oven.  Mrs  J    V.  Raxtkk. 


48 

Cream   Pie   With   Chocolate   Meringue. 

One  quart  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  one 
cup  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
flavor  with  vanilla;  meringue  whites  of  four  eggs,  four 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one-quarter  cake  melted  chocolate. 
Cook  filling  until  thick.  Cook  under  crust  first,  then  add 
filling  and  meringue  and  brown.  Mrs.  Henry  Price. 

Pumpkin   Pie. 

One  pint  cooked  and  strained  pumpkin,  one  quart  milk, 
four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar.  Sprinkle  pies  with  cinnamon 
before  baking,  using  whites  of  eggs  with  a  little  sugar  for 
meringue  on  top.  Mrs.  Eva  Short. 

Charlotte  Russe  Pie. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-quarter  cups 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  cold  water,  one  teaspoonful  yeast 
powder.  Bake  in  two  pie  plates,  and  when  cold  cut  in 
half  and  put  cream  filling  between  layers  made  as  fol- 
lows : 

Cream  Filling. 

One  pint  milk  boiled;  beat  two  eggs  and  add  to  them 
one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  flour.  Pour  boiling  milk 
over  them  and  put  on  fire  to  get  thick.  Stir  to  keep  from 
burning.     Flavor  to  taste  when  taken  off  fire. 

Mrs.  Edw.  Hepborn,  Sr. 

Cream  Pie. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour, 
one-half  cup  cold  water,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one-half 
lemon,  one  teaspoonful  soda.  Beat  eggs  two  minutes,  add 
sugar,  beat  five  minutes  ;  add  one-half  the  flour  and  water 
and  the  lemon,  then  the  other  half  of  flour  and  soda  the 
last  thing;  beat  one  minute.  Bake  in  two  cake  pans.  Fill- 
ing made  as  follows  :  One  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  flour, 
two  eggs,  beaten  ;  two  and  one-half  cups  milk,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  cook  until  it  thickens.  When  ready  to  serve, 
spread  filling  between  the  two  layers  and  cut  it  like  cake. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Robinson. 


4!) 

CAKE 


General  Directions  for  Making  Cake. 

Boat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
together;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately. 

The  yeast  powder  should  be  sifted  through  the  flour; 
soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk  or  in  a  little  warm  water. 

The  success  of  your  cake  depends  much  on  having  the 
flour  well  sifted  and  the  other  ingredients  thoroughly 
beaten  together  before  the  flour  is  added,  after  which  stir 
as  little  as  possible. 

Currants*  should  be  carefully  picked  over  and  washed  in 
a  colander  until  clean,  then  spread  on  tins  before  the  fire; 
when  dry,  put  away  for  use.  Raisins  should  be  seeded 
and  cut  or  chopped,  as  preferred. 

To  blanch  almonds,  pour  on  boiling  water  and  rub  off 
the  skins. 

Fruit  should  be  dredged  with  flour  before  putting  it  into 
the  cake  to  prevent  it  settling. 

Be  sure  to  have  your  oven  at  the  right  temperature. 

Also  be  careful  not  to  jar  cake  after  placing  in  over  by 
slamming  oven  door,  walking  heavily  across  floor,  etc., 
or  else  your  cake  is  very  apt  to  fall. 

It  is  recommended  that  only  standard  flavors  and  spices 
be  used  in  these  recipes.  McCormick's  Bee  Brand  is  wor- 
thy of  particular  mention. 

Cup  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups 
flour,  one  cup  milk  or  cream,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  layers.  Use  any  icing 
preferred.  Mrs.  E.  B.  Paukott. 

Angel    Food. 
Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tumblers  gran- 
ulated sugar,  one  tumbler  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream 
of   tartar,   one-half   teaspoonful   bitter   almond.      Mixing: 


50 

Sift  Hour  four  times,  add  cream  of  tartar,  sift  sugar  once, 
mix  sugar,  whites  of  eggs  and  flavoring,  and  last  flour, 
lightly  as  possible.  Bake  in  a  good  oven  forty  minutes. 
When  done  turn  pan  down  on  table  with  something  under 
edges  to  let  out  the  steam  and  leave  until  cold. 

Mrs.  Julian  Jones. 

Ice   Cream    Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two  and  one-quar- 
ter cups  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  one  cup 
milk,  one  cup  cornstarch,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Bake  in 
layers  and  put  together  with  the  following: 

Icing. 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  six  tablespoonfuls  water. 
Let  boil.  Pour  slowly  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs.     Beat  until  cool.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Webb. 

Plain   Loaf  Cake. 

Six  eggs,  one-half  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  one 
pound  flour,  one  cup  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder.  Flavor  as  desired.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  one 
and  one-quarter  to  one  and  one-half  hours.        O.  H.  M. 

White  Pound  Cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  six  ounces  butter, 
whites  of  twelve  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Mix  butter  and 
sugar  together,  then  add  the  milk  and  flour,  little  at  a 
time;  lastly  the  whites,  beaten  light. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Atwell. 

White   Mountain  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  whites  of  live  eggs, 
three-quarters  cup  butter,  three  cups  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls baking  powder.  Use  any  flavor  to  suit  taste. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  the  whites  of  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  three  layers  and  put  together  with  the  following: 


51 

Cocoanut   Filling. 

Whites  of  three  eggs,  three  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one 
grated  cocoanut.  Leave  out  about  one-half  cup  cocoanut 
to  sprinkle  over  top  and  sides  of  cake  immediately  after 
spreading.  L.  B.  H. 

Nut  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  cold  water,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup 
hickorynut  meats,  two  teaspoonfuls  good  yeast  powder. 
Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla.  Whites  and  yolks  of  eggs 
are  beaten  separately.  Mrs.  E.  W.  Horsey. 

Caramel    Cake. 
Use  same  batter  as   for  white  mountain  cake.     A  few 
drops  of  red  vegetable  coloring  in   middle  layer  makes  a 
much  prettier  cake.    Vanilla  flavoring.    Put  together  with 
caramel  icing  (see  icings).  O.  H.  M. 

Fruit  Cake,  No.  1. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  strong  coffee,  one  glass  jelly,  two  pounds  raisins, 
one  pound  currants,  one-half  pound  citron,  one-half 
pound  figs,  one  orange,  one  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice; 
two  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one 
nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder.  Flour. to  make  a 
stiff  batter.     Bake  in  very  slow  oven  for  three  hours. 

Mrs.  K.  Ricards. 

Fruit  Cake,  No.  2. 

Two  pounds  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  one  pound 
figs,  one-half  pound  citron,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound 
butter,  one  pound  flour,  one  dozen  eggs,  one-half  cup 
brandy,  juice  of  three  oranges,  a  little  salt.  Cut  all  the 
fruit  in  small  pieces  and  flour  well  over  night;  cut  the 
raisins  in  two  if  large.  Mix  eggs,  butter,  brandy  and 
sugar,  as  for  any  other  cake,  and  last  put  in  the  fruit. 
Bake  it  four  hours  very  slowly  and  then  try  with  a  straw, 
if  not  soaked  put  back  in  oven.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  separate  and  stir  in  lightly  after  everything  is  mixed. 

Mabel  Cleaver. 


52 

Mother's  Raised  Cake. 

Two  cups  light  bread  dough,  one  cup  shortening,  one 
and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups 
milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  cup  raisins.  Mix  with  hands 
till  smooth,  all  parts  except  milk  and  raisins,  which  are 
added.  T.  E.  B. 

Ginger  Bread. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one-quarter  cup  lard, 
two  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  one 
cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  flour  enough  to 
make  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  spoon.  Bake  in  slow 
oven.  Mrs.  M.  V.  Turner. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

Two  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cup  water, 
two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful soda,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  allspice. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Harris. 
Velvet   Sponge   Cake. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  cup  hot  water,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  add 
the  sugar  and  beat  until  it  is  creamy,  then  add  vanilla 
and  flour,  just  folding  it  in,  but  do  not  beat;  at  last  add 
the  boiling  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Ruth  Baxter. 
Sponge   Cake. 

Six  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  one  cup  boiling  water, 
flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  beat  in  sugar,  then 
add  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  then  flour  and  yeast  pow- 
der, sifted  together;  last  the  other  one-half  cup  of  boil- 
ing water  and  flavoring  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  a  sheet  or 
in  layers  in  quick  oven.  M.  Catherink  Foc.wki.l. 

Minnehaha  Cake. 
Five  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk, 
four   cups   flour,   two   teaspoonfuls   yeast   powder,   vanilla 
flavoring.    Bake  in  layers.    Use  the  following: 


Filling. 

Boil  two  cups  of  sugar  with  just  enough  water  to  dis- 
solve it  until  clear.  Pour  while  boiling  hot  over  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  hard  till  smooth,  then  add 
vanilla,  one-half  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  one-half 
pound  English  walnuts,  one-half  pound  raisins,  also  figs, 
if  desired;  cut  fine  and  spread  between  layers  and  over 
outside  of  cake;  save  about  eight  half  walnuts  to  place  on 
top.  LrciiXK  C   Parr. 

Brown-stone  Front. 

One-half  cup  butter,  melted;  two  cups  brown  sugar, 
three  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  two  and  one-half  squares 
chocolate,  melted  in  one-half  cup  hot  coffee,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  melted  in  one-half  cup  sour  milk.  Bake  in 
layers  and  put  together  with  caramel  icing  with  chopped 
walnuts.  Mrs.  J.  T.  B. 

Watermelon  Cake. 

White  Part  :  Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  each  of  butter 
and  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  whites  of  five 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  and  one  of  soda 
sifted  several  times  with  the  flour.  Red  Part :  One  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-third  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tartar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  several 
times  with  the  flour,  one  teacup  of  large  raisins.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  together  (each  part  separately 
mixed),  add  slowly  the  milk;  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  the  prepared  flour  into  the 
mixture,  stirring  until  the  batter  is  smooth;  then  stir  in 
the  whipped  eggs  and  a  few  drops  of  red  vegetable  color- 
ing. Cut  the  raisins  lengthwise,  mix  well  with  a  little  of 
the  flour  and  stir  in  last.  Use  a  well-buttered  pan  with  a 
tube  in  it.  Fill  the  white  part  around  the  outer  edge  of 
the  pan,  piling  the  red  part  around  the  tube,  which  should 
be  done  by  two  persons,  else  the  parts  are  apt  to  run  into 
each  other.  The  raisins  should  only  be  used  in  the  red 
part  to  represent  seed.  Cover  the  red  part  at  the  last 
with  the  white  batter.  Bake  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 
Coyer  with  green  icing  if  you  like.  Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Rash. 
5 


54 

Old  Maid's  Cake. 

One  pound  flour,  one-half  pound  sugar,  one-quarter 
pound  butter  and  lard,  one-half  pound  raisins,  one-half 
pound  currants,  one-quarter  pound  citron,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  wine,  a  scant  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
soda,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cloves,  ground  cin- 
namon, ground  ginger,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  ground 
allspice.    Sift  soda  into  the  flour  and  mix  all  smoothly. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  H. 

Fig    and    Date    Cake. 

Six  eggs,  beaten  separately;  one  cup  butter,  two  cups 
sugar,  creamed  with  butter;  two  teaspoonfuls  flavoring, 
three  cup  flours,  sifted  twice;  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one  pound  figs,  one  pound  dates.  Chop  the  fruit 
fine  and  mix  with  a  portion  of  the  flour.    Emma  Jarrell. 

Chocolate  and  White  Cake. 

Chocolate  Part :  One-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  and  three- 
quarters  cups  flour,  four  squares  chocolate  dissolved  in 
five  tablespoonfuls  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der ,one  cup  nut  meats,  one  cup  raisins.  White  Part:  One 
cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites  of  three  eggs,  two- 
thirds  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  one  cup  shredded 
cocoanut.  Bake  in  layers,  frost  with  white  frosting,  deco- 
rate with  halves  of  walnuts.  Mrs.  Sallie  B.  Norris. 

Devil  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  one-half 
cup  milk,  two  cups  sifted  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
yeast  powder.  Grate  one-half  cake  of  unsweetened  choco- 
late, after  mixing  add  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  yolk  of  one  egg.  Put  this  on  tea  kettle  to 
melt  until  smooth  and  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Make  this  mixture  first  so  it  can  cool  while  mixing  the 
above  part;  when  it  is  cool  stir  it  into  the  last  part. 
Make  three  layers.  Mrs.  Edward  W.  Ford. 


55 

Apple  Sauce  Cake. 

Cream  together  two  cups  sugar  and  one-half  cup  butter 
or  lard,  add  a  little  nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  add  two 
cups  raisins.  Dissolve  two  teaspoonfuls  soda  in  a  little 
warm  water  and  stir  into  two  cups  unsweetened  apple 
sauce  and  add  to  the  other  mixture;  add  three  and  one- 
halt  cups  flour.    Bake  in  loaf.  Mrs.  H.  A.  Ricards. 

Checker-Board  Cake. 

If  this  cake  is  not  made  with  care  and  the  batter  is  too 
thin,  there  will  be  no  "checker  board." 

Six  eggs,  whites  only;  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three-quarters  cup  butter,  four  cups  sifted  flour,  or 
three  cups  if  you  measure  before  you  sift  it;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  yeast  powder  .two  teaspoonfuls  lemon.  Divide 
the  batter  into  two  equal  parts  and  color  one-half  of  it 
with  dissolved  chocolate.  Drop  the  batter  into  layer  pans 
in  rings  in  this  way.  First  place  a  small  circle  of  the 
white  batter  in  the  center  of  the  pan  and  carefully  place 
around  it  a  ring  of  the  brown  batter  about  one  and  one- 
half  inches  wide.  Around  the  brown  ring  place  another 
of  white,  then  a  brown  one,  continuing  this  way  until  the 
pan  is  filled,  being  careful  to  have  the  rings  as  nearly  a 
uniform  width  as  possible.  In  the  next  layer  reverse  the 
color  scheme  by  beginning  with  the  center  ring  brown 
and  the  next  white  and  so  on,  alternating  until  the  pan  is 
filled.  Reverse  colors  in  each  subsequent  layer  until  all 
of  the  batter  is  used.  Any  good  filling  may  be  used  be- 
tween the  layers  and  the  top  may  be  iced  or  covered  with 
the  filling  or  dusted  with  powdered  sugar. 

Mae  W.  Jewell. 

Spice   Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated 
sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  four  eggs,  one  and  three-quar- 
ters cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful 
cinnamon,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  cloves  and  ginger 
mixed,  one  teaspoonful  yeast  powder  to  every  cup  of  flour 
and  save  whites  of  two  eggs  for  icing.  Bake  in  layers. 

Anna  Bowers. 


56 

Yellow-Kid  Cake. 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  cornstarch,  two  cups  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  flavor- 
ing. Bake  cake  in  three  layers  and  use  the  following: 

Icing. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  beat  yolks  until  light  looking;  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  pound  pulverized  sugar. 

Hallie  E.  Cooper. 

Raisin   Cake. 

Three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  one  grated  nutmeg,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls cinnamon,  two  boxes  raisins,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder.     Bake  three  hours.  Mrs.  R.  G.  Warren. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  powdered  sugar,  three- 
quarters  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups 
sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder.     Bake  in  layers,  and  use  following: 

Icing. 

Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  pound  pulverized  sugar,  two 
cocoanuts.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Bowers. 


ICINGS 


Boiled  White  Icing. 

To  one-third  cup  of  boiling  water  add  gradually  one 
cup  granulated  sugar.  Boil  until  it  spins  a  long  thread, 
when  pour  slowly  over  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg, 
beating  all  the  while  until  cool,  when  spread.  If  a  thick 
icing  is  desired,  use  double  quantity  or  more,  and  as  soon 
as  the  syrup  begins  to  boil  after  sugar  is  added,  take  out 
a    little    by    degrees,    pouring   over    well-beaten    egg   and 


57 

beating  constantly.     The   last   to  be   added  will   thus  be 

overdone,  making  up  for  the  first  that  was  taken  out  un- 
derdone. With  care  this  makes  a  fine  icing,  flavor  as 
desired.  O.  H.   M. 

Chocolate    Icing. 

One-quarter  cake  chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls  milk, 
one  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water,  butter 
the  size  of  walnut.  Mix  all  together  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Beat  until  stiff  and  spread  between  layers  and  on  top. 

L.  B.  H. 
Caramel  Icing. 

One  pound  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Cook  about  ten  minutes.  Beat  until  ready 
to  spread.    Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs,  L.  W.  Ford. 

Orange  Filling. 

Mix  one  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange, 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour  and  one  egg.  Cook  until  smooth 
and  creamy.  Caruie  Schofield. 

Lemon   Filling. 

Two  eggs,  beaten  light;  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  beaten  together;  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
till  thick.  Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  filling  and 
mix  with  pulverized  sugar  to  ice  the  cake. 

S.  C.  Rasin. 

Cocoa    Icing. 

Two  cups  XXXX  sugar,  six  teaspoonfuls  cocoa,  four 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  hot 
milk  or  coffee,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla.  Beat  until 
smooth  and  thick.    Ice  while  warm.  Hope  Hackett. 


58 

Small   Cakes 


Jumbles,  No.  1. 

Six  eggs,  two  pounds  sugar,  one-half  pound  butter,  one- 
quarter  pound  lard,  small  teacup  milk,  nutmeg,  lemon  and 
vanilla  to  flavor,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  flour  to  make 
soft  dough,  just  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Take  part  of  flour, 
mix  nutmeg  and  cream  of  tartar  with  it;  work  butter  and 
lard  in  ;  beat  eggs  light,  then  beat  sugar  in  little  at  a  time 
until  all  is  used,  then  milk,  vanilla  and  lemon  ;  put  hot 
water  on  soda  and  beat  in  last ;  add  mixture  to  flour  you 
have  mixed,  then  work  in  more  flour  until  you  have  a 
smooth  soft  dough.  Cut  out  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  If  you 
prefer  yeast  powder,  it  can  be  used  in  place  of  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar.  Mrs.  Sallie  B.  Norris. 

Jumbles,  No.  2. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour,  two  eggs, 
two  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Rasin. 

Grandma's  Cookies. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  lard,  one-half  cup 
milk,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  pinch  of 
salt,  flour  to  make  dough  easily  handled.  Roll  out  and 
cut  with  cookie  cutter.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Crowding. 
Boston  Cookies  (3}£  Doz.) 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful cinnamon,  one  cup  English  walnuts,  one-half  cup 
raisins,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  hot  water,  one 
cup  chopped  dates,  three  and  one-quarter  cups  flour. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  well  beaten  ;  then  add 
soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water  and  one-half  of  the  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  salt  and  cinnamon.  Add  nut  meats, 
fruit  and  remaining  flour.  Drop  by  spoonful  on  buttered 
pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  R.  D.  H. 


59 

Clabber  Cookies. 

One  cup  clabber,  two  cups  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  soda 
beaten  in  clabber  until  thoroughly  smooth,  one  cup  short- 
ening, juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  flour  enough  to 
make  stiff  dough.  Roll  very  thin,  sprinkle  with  granu- 
lated sugar  and  cut  out.    Bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Mattie  Gale. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 
Two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
butter  and  one-third  cup  lard,  three-quarters  teaspoonful 
soda,  dissolved  in  milk;  one  pinch  salt,  two  cups  oatmeal, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  scant  teaspoonful 
cloves,  one  cup  raisins,  one-half  teacup  milk,  two  cups 
flour.  Drop  by  teaspoonful  on  well-buttered  pan  two 
inches  apart.  O.  H  .M. 

Drop    Cakes. 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  one 
egg,  one  tablespoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one 
cup  molasses,  one  cup  boiling  water,  five  cups  flour,  or 
enough  to  make  a  batter  stiff  enough  to  drop  off  the 
spoon  in  a  dripping  pan  and  keep  its  round  shape.  Bake 
in  quick  oven.  Mrs.  W.  \V.  Rasin. 

Peanut    Wafers. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  (scant)  butter,  three-quar- 
ters cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Grind  your 
peanuts  medium  fine,  one  quart;  turn  baking  square  face 
upside  down  ;  spread  the  mixture  thin  on  bottom  of  pan 
and  over  this  sprinkle  lightly  the  ground  nuts.  When 
cooked  cut  in  squares  and  slightly  roll  while  warm. 

Mrs.  Henry  Davis. 

Peanut  Cookies. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful baking  powder,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
three  cups  sifted  flour,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt,  one- 
half  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice,  one  cup  chopped  pea- 
nuts. Drop  by  one-half  teaspoonful  on  well-greased  pans 
two  inches  apart.  Anna  Walter. 


60 

Hermits. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sour 
cream;  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  all- 
spice, one-quarter  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  egg,  two  cups 
flour,  one  cup  chopped  raisins  or  figs,  one  cup  chopped 
nuts.  The  soda  is  put  in  the  cream.  Drop  cakes  from 
spoon  right  far  apart.  Mrs.  Ed.  Hepborn,  Sr. 

Chocolate   Kisses. 

Six  ounces  chocolate,  whites  of  five  eggs,  beaten  light ; 
one  pound  pulverized  sugar,  five  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
flour.  Drop  the  mixture  from  spoon  on  buttered  pan  a 
little  distance  apart.  Allow  time  to  cool  before  taking 
from  pan.  Mrs.  Harry  Davis. 

Walnut  Macaroons. 

One  pound  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one 
pound  black  walnut  kernels  (ground),  two  tablespoonfuls 
flour.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  light;  then  beat 
the  sugar  well  into  it ;  drop  off  the  end  of  a  knife  on  well- 
greased  pan  ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Shalixross. 

Ginger  Cakes. 

One  pint  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  one 
tablespoonful  soda,  beaten  in  molasses,  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  ground  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Beat  above  in- 
gredients together  while  molasses  is  hot.  Add  flour 
enough  to  roll  out.    Cut  in  cakes  and  bake. 

Miss  M.  Harper. 

Ginger  Gems. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  cup 
butter  or  lard,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  water  or  cold  cof- 
fee, one-half  cup  sweet  milk.  Make  as  stiff  with  flour  as 
can  be  stirred,  add  all  kinds  of  spice  and  one  cup  of 
raisins  or  currants,  if  desired;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
and  one  of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Ford. 


61 

Lady   Fingers. 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  Hour,  two  cups  sugar,  four 
eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and  add  sugar,  then  yolks  of 
eggs;  add  a  little  flour,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  more 
flour;  roll  out  in  sugar,  press  flat  with  fingers  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  in  greased  pans  until  they  bgin  to  brown. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Bonwill,  Jr. 

Crullers  (6  Doz.) 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  little  salt, 
flavor  with  nutmeg,  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

Mrs.  R.  P.  Nichols. 

With  cup  of  yeast  added  and  let  lighten,  above  recipe 
can  be  used  for  doughnuts.     Flavor  with  ginger. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Baxter. 
Lightened  Doughnuts. 

Heat  one  quart  of  milk  to  boiling,  melt  in  this  one-half 
pound  lard;  beat  three  eggs  with  one  pound  sugar  and 
pour  the  boiling  milk  in  this,  stirring  constantly;  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Let  this  set  until  luke  warm,  then  add  one 
large  cup  good  yeast  and  flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Start 
this  in  the  morning;  at  night,  if  sponge  is  light,  add  one 
more  pound  of  sugar,  one  grated  nutmeg,  flour  enough 
for  soft  dough.  If  well  lightened  in  the  morning,  roll  and 
cut  one-half  inch  thick.  Let  rise  two  hours  or  fry  at 
once  (best  to  let  rise)  ;  fry  in  boiling  lard,  sprinkle  with 
pulverized  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Mrs.   E.  P.  Roberts. 


CANDIES. 


Cream   Fondant   Candies. 

The  secret  of  good  candy  is  good  fondant.  To  make 
the  kind  that  will  keep  fresh  for  a  long  time,  do  not  use 
either  egg  or  cream  of  tartar. 


62 

Put  three  cups  of  XXXX  sugar  in  a  bowl  or  agate  pan, 
pour  in,  while  stirring,  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
continue  to  stir  until  all  lumps  are  gone.  Cover  and  let 
stand  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  stiffen  with  more  sugar 
until  it  can  be  handled  and  worked  like  light  bread.  Af- 
ter working  until  creamy,  about  five  minutes,  it  is  then 
ready  to  flavor  and  mold. 

Unless  you  want  a  great  deal  of  one  kind  of  candy,  it  is 
best  to  divide  the  batch  of  fondant  and  color  and  flavor 
each  as  you  mold  them.  Add  a  little  vanilla  to  a  portion 
of  it,  pinch  off  a  piece  the  size  of  a  hazel  nut,  it  will  do  to 
use  as  a  walnut  cream  plain,  with  half  nut  on  top  or  dip- 
ped in  chocolate.  In  an  olive  shape  use  it  for  almonds, 
either  plain  or  coated.  One  chunk  of  the  fondant,  flavored 
with  maple  sugar  flavoring,  rolled  into  a  tiny  cylinder, 
makes  an  ideal  filling  for  stuffed  dates.  Peppermint 
creams  are  easily  made  by  adding  essence  of  peppermint 
to  the  plain  fondant  and  pressing  the  balls  flat  in  the 
palm  of  the  hand.  These  may  be  colored  green  or  pink 
by  using  a  good  vegetable  coloring  matter. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  made  as  follows :  Grate  a  fresh 
cocoanut  and  let  dry  out  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 
Use  two  cups  cocoanut,  two  cups  sugar,  one-quarter  cup 
boiling  water.  Mix  and  let  stand  for  two  hours.  Then 
stiffen,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  break  off  small  pieces. 
Shape  these  like  fingers  and  drop  in  a  dish  of  cinnamon. 
Have  some  one  to  roll  them  in  this,  as  they  will  be 
smeary  if  one  does  it  alone. 

To  make  orange  sticks,  use  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
one  orange  and  add  enough  XXXX  sugar  to  make  it  look 
like  thick  cream.  After  two  hours  stiffen  and  roll  same 
as  for  sweet  potatoes  and  use  plain  or  dipped  in  choco- 
late. 

Candies  should  be  kept  twenty-four  hours  before  dip- 
ping. Use  Baker's  Chocolate  melted  in  a  bowl  set  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water.  When  it  is  liquid,  drop  the  candies 
in  and  remove  at  once  with  a  fork  or  hat  pin.  place  on 
sieve  or  colander  to  drain  off,  then  drop  on  paraffine  pa- 
per. When  the  chocolate  becomes  stiff,  scrape  off  of  col- 
ander and  paper  also  and  put  back  in  bowl  to  melt  again. 


63 

Candies  made  in  this  way,  placed  between  sheets  of 
paraffine  paper  in  a  tin  box,  will  keep  for  months. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Harris. 
Chocolate   Fudge. 
Two  pounds  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  cake  of  Baker's 
Chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls   Baker's  Cocoa,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  milk.     Flavor  with  vanilla  or 
cinnamon.     Boil  five  minutes,  beat  until  creamy. 

Edna  Wroth. 
Chocolate  Fudge. 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  one 
ounce  butter,  two  ounces  of  Baker's  Chocolate,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Put  sugar  and  milk  over  fire  until 
the  boiling  point  is  reached,  add  butter  and  allow  to  boil 
until  the  syrup  will  form  a  soft  ball  if  tried  in  cold  water. 
Take  from  fire,  add  chocolate  and  vanilla  and  stir  until  it 
snaps.  Quickly  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  when  part- 
ly cool  cut  into  squares.  Naomi  Baxter. 

Caramels. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cream,  three-eighths  cup  Karo 
syrup,  one-quarter  cup  butter  (may  be  omitted),  one-half 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  Mix  sugar,  syrup,  one-half  cream 
and  butter  and  stir  till  it  boils.  Add  rest  of  cream  with- 
out stopping  the  boiling.  Boil,  stirring  every  few  minutes 
until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  a  firm  ball  will  form  in 
the  fingers.  Remove,  add  vanilla  and  pour  into  well-but- 
tered tins.  When  cool  cut  in  squares  and  wrap  in  paraffin 
paper.  (White,  brown  or  maple  sugar  syrup  may  be  used 
in  place  of  Karo  Corn  Syrup.)  Helen  L.  Comstock. 

Peanut  Brittle. 

Place  two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  in  an  iron  skillet 
over  a  slow  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  quite  dissolved. 
Do  not  put  any  liquid  with  the  sugar.  It  will  lump  when 
starting  to  melt  and  seem  quite  hopeless,  but  it  will  final- 
ly melt  and  must  be  stirred  to  keep  from  burning.  When 
entirely  smooth,  take  from  fire  and  beat  in  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  bread  soda.  It  will  lighten  the  brittle.  Add 
one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  and  pour  the  mixture  in 
a  dish  that  has  been  buttered  and  covered  with  halves  of 
peanuts.    It  will  harden  at  once.  Mrs.  R.  D.  Moore. 


64 

Peanut  Candy. 

Two  cupfuls  sugar,  one-half  cup  water.  When  it  boils 
add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  water;  cook  until  brittle,  add  butter  size  of 
walnut,  cook  few  minutes.  Pour  in  buttered  tins  lined 
with  nuts.  Mrs.  J.  Howard. 

Divinity   Fudge. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one- 
half  cup  Karo  corn  syrup,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup 
broken  walnuts.  Mix  sugar,  syrup  and  water  and  boil 
until,  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  mixture  will  form  a 
firm  ball  between  the  fingers.  Beat  the  eggs  stiff.  Pour 
half  the  boiling  mixture  over  the  eggs,  beating  constantly. 
Return  the  remaining  half  of  mixture  to  stove  and  boil 
until,  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  it  forms  a  hard  ball. 
Then  remove  from  the  stove  and  pour  slowly  into  the 
first  half,  beating  constantly.  Add  walnuts  and  vanilla, 
pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  cut  in  squares. 

Inez  Russell. 

Molasses  Candy,  No.  1. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  vinegar, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  butter  the 
size  of  walnut.  Cook  fifteen  minutes,  stir  in  peanuts  or 
walnuts.  Mrs.  R.  G.  Warren. 

Molasses   Candy,  No.  2. 

One  cup  molasses,  two  cups  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 
vinegar,  a  little  butter  and  vanilla.  Boil  ten  minutes,  then 
cool  it  enough  to  pull.  Ruth  Baxter. 

Chocolate   Taffy. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
syrup,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of 
egg,  cake  of  Baker's  Chocolate,  teaspoonful  cornstarch, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Cook  it  until  it  will  harden 
in  cold  water.  Beat  for  five  minutes.  Pour  into  butter 
tins.  Bertha  Hackett. 

Haddock. 

Two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk, 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Cook  until  hard  in  water.  Take  off, 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  five  minutes.  Put  nuts  in  but- 
tered pans,  pour  candy  over  them.  Alta  H.  Price. 


65 

Canning.  Preserving  and  Pickling. 


The  success  of  canning  depends  upon  absolute  steriliza- 
tion and  heating  the  fruits  and  vegetables  till  all  the 
germs  are  destroyed,  then  scaling  it  airtight  while  scald- 
ing hot. 

Canned    Peaches. 

Halve,  pare  and  drop  in  cold  water  the  peaches  to  In- 
used.  Have  small  kettle  of  boiling  water  on  stove  ready 
to  fill  jars,  drop  peaches  into  another  vessel  of  boiling 
water  and  let  scald,  not  boil,  until  tender.  Put  in  jars  first 
a  layer  of  peaches,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  then  cover 
that  with  clear  boiling  water.  Continue  until  the  jar  is 
full.     Water  and  sugar  will  form  syrup. 

Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Warren. 

Canned  Pineapple. 

Shred  pineapple  with  fork.  Sweeten  as  you  would  if 
serving  on  table.  Let  come  to  a  good  boil.  Fill  sterilized 
jars.  Seal  airtight.  Place  in  pan  of  boiling  water  and  let 
stand  until  all  is  cold.  Mrs.  Wilmer  L.  Ford. 

Canned   Keifer  Pears. 

Cut  in  small  pieces  and  sugar  with  sufficient  sugar  as  if 
serving  on  table.  Let  stand  about  two  hours.  Put  on 
stove  and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Seal  in  sterilized  jars. 
Fine  to  serve  as  a  dessert  with  cut  up  oranges,  bananas 
and  pineapples.  O.  H.   M. 

Canned  Apples. 

Take  sweet  apples,  Fallowater  preferred.  Pare  and  cut 
in  quarters,  smaller,  if  liked.  Make  a  syrup  enough  to 
cover  apples,  not  cooking  more  than  two  quarts  at  a  time. 
Add  apples  to  boiling  syrup  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 

A.   W.    R. 
Canned  Asparagus  and   Peas. 
Have  fresh  asparagus  and  pack  in  a  glass  jar,  fill   with 
colli   water   with   one   teaspoonful  of   salt    to   each    quart. 
Put  on  the  rubber  and  top  and  boil  for  one  hour  on  each 


66 

of  three  successive  days.  Put  boiler  on  and  place  a  false 
bottom  in  it.  Pour  in  about  three  inches  of  cold  water  or 
just  enough  to  form  steam  to  prevent  the  boiler  from  go- 
ing dry  during  this  boiling.  The  steam  does  the  cooking. 
Put  cover  on  boiler  and  set  it  on  the  stove  ;  bring  the  wa- 
ter to  a  boil  and  keep  it  boiling  one  hour.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  remove  the  cover  of  boiler  and  allow  steam  to 
escape.  Press  down  the  spring  of  jars  (these  must  be 
glass  top  jars),  to  prevent  any  outside  air  from  entering. 
The  jars  can  be  allowed  to  cool  in  boiler  until  the  next 
day.  The  second  day  raise  the  spring  at  the  side  of  jar; 
this  prevents  pressure  from  steam  that  might  accumulate 
inside.  Repeat  this  operation  the  third  day.  After  the 
sterilization  is  complete  the  jars  may  be  set  aside  for  a 
day  or  two  and  then  tested.  This  is  done  by  releasing  the 
spring  at  the  side  and  picking  up  the  jar  by  the  top.  If 
there  has  been  the  least  decomposition  the  top  will  come 
off.  In  this  case  empty  out  the  contents  and  fill  the  jars 
with  a  fresh  supply.  Other  vegetables  can  be  canned  by 
this  recipe,  though  some,  such  as  sweet  potatoes  and 
beets,  require  parboiling  first. 

Mrs.  J.  Biddle  Hossixger,  Edith  M.  Hepburx. 

Canned   Corn. 

Cut  corn  from  cob  and  put  on  enough  salt  to  season 
well,  pack  tightly  in  jars.  Set  jars  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  with  water  reaching  up  to  mouth  of  jar.  Boil  hard 
one  hour  for  pint  jars,  two  hours  for  quarts.  Take  out, 
put  rubbers  on  jars  and  screw  up  very  tight.  Keep  in  a 
cool,  dark  place.  Mrs.  M.  R.  Hoffecker. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

Select  firm,  smooth  fruit  and  of  a  size  to  slip  into  the 
ordinary  fruit  jar.  Peel  without  breaking;  do  not  scald. 
Have  ready  a  preserving  kettle  of  water  which  has  been 
salted  enough  to  taste.  Just  before  the  water  reaches 
boiling  point  drop  in  the  tomatoes,  just  enough  to  do 
three  jars  at  a  time,  heat  them  through  thoroughly.  Do 
not  allow  the  water  to  boil.  Put  fruit  in  jars  with  just  a 
little  of  the  salt  water,  as  they  make  enough  juice — cover 
quickly.    Seal  tops  of  jars  with  Parowax. 

Mae  W.  Jewell. 


07 

Preserved  Strawberries. 
Wash  fruit.  Add  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
pound  of  fruit.  Let  come  to  a  boil  slowly;  boil  five  min- 
utes, then  strain  through  a  coarse  colander  and  boil  syrup 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  then  add  fruit  and  pour  all  into 
pint  jars,  sealing  them  tightly.  Berries  preserved  in  this 
way  lose  neither  their  color  nor  size,  and  will  be  as  fine  a 
year  hence  as  when  first  put  up.  L.  A.  Money. 

Preserved   Strawberries    (In   the   Sun). 

Let  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  one-half  tumbler  of  wa- 
ter come  to  a  boil;  stir  to  keep  from  burning.  Then  put 
in  three  pounds  of  berries  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  shake 
but  do  not  stir.  Take  the  berries  out  of  the  syrup.  Let 
(he  syrup  boil  five  minutes  longer,  then  put  the  berries  in 
the  syrup  again  until  they  become  thoroughly  heated. 
Pour  both  berries  and  syrup  into  three  large  dishes  and 
set  in  the  sun  three  days.  Put  in  jars  without  heating 
again.  Mrs,  Edward  W.   Ford. 

Sun  Preserves. 

One  pound  fruit,  one  pound  sugar.  Let  fruits  to  be  pre- 
served in  sun  stand  awhile  to  make  their  own  juice.  It  is 
better  not  to  do  over  three  pounds  at  a  time.  Sugar 
strawberries  over  night :  peaches,  if  sliced,  less  time,  and 
cherries  two  hours.  When  fruit  is  to  stand  only  a  short 
time  use  only  part  of  the  sugar  in  sugaring  down,  jusl 
enough  to  dissolve,  adding  the  rest  when  juice  is  put  on 
stove.  Boil  juice  fifteen  minutes,  add  fruit,  and  let  come 
to  a  good  boil.  Remove  from  stove,  place  in  shallow 
dishes,  cover  with  glass,  put  in  sun  (on  a  south  roof,  if 
possible)  and  let  cook  for  several  days  or  until  syrup  is 
thick.     Put  in  glasses,  cover  well  with  paraffin  and  put  on 

top.  (  )LLIE    I  1  AKI'l.i;    M  EDDERS. 

Red  Cherries,  Preserved  in  Sun. 

Take  nice  ripe  cherries,  wash  and  seed  t hem.  Take 
three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  cherries.  Let 
come  to  a  boil.  Pour  in  shallow  dishes  and  set  in  sun 
from  two  to  three  days,  according  to  the  sun.  Put  in  jars 
and  seal  while  cold.  Helen  Ford. 


68 

Grape   Conserve. 

Five  pounds  grapes,  three  oranges,  one-half  pound  cur- 
rants, four  pounds  sugar,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  small 
quantity  of  citron.  Separate  the  pulp  from  the  skin  and 
remove  seeds.  Add  the  pulp  and  skin  of  grapes,  pulp  of 
oranges,  sugar  and  other  ingredients.  Let  set  over  night. 
Then  cook  until  quite  thick.  Mrs.  Mary  Clark. 

Preserved    Green   Tomatoes. 

Five  pounds  green  tomatoes  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Wash, 
cut  out  the  core,  prick  with  fork  four  times.  Let  stand 
over  night.  In  morning  make  a  syrup  with  five  pounds 
sugar.  When  syrup  is  real  thick,  drop  in  the  tomatoes. 
Let  cook  slowly  about  two  hours.  Flavor  with  one  thin 
slice  of  lemon.     Put  in  glass  jars  and  seal  tight. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Price. 

Preserved  Gooseberries. 

Use  half  grown  berries.  One  and  one-quarter  pounds 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  water  to  moisten  sugar.  Boil 
syrup  five  minutes.  Pour  one  pound  of  berries  in  syrup 
and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Pour  in  jelly  glasses  as  you 
would  jelly.  Mrs.  John  H.  Clexdaxiel. 

Jelly. 

When  making  jelly  care  must  be  taken  that  fruit  is  not 
too  ripe.  If  ripe  fruit  must  be  used,  something  else  will 
have  to  be  added  to  supply  the  needed  pectin — one-third 
of  the  quantity  in  very  green  green  apples  will  do  this. 
Whatever  is  used  must  be  cooked  and  strained  with  the 
other  fruit.  Mash  slightly  or  cut  in  small  pieces  all  fruits 
to  be  used,  putting  them  on  stove  with  only  just  enough 
water  to  keep  from  burning.  When  cooked  soft,  put  in  a 
three-cornered  bag  of  flannel  to  drain.  Never  squeeze 
pulp  of  first  quality,  but  with  some  fruits  the  pulp  can  be 
put  on  with  a  little  water  added,  then  cooked  and  strained 
again,  but  jelly  will  not  be  as  good. 

Cook  one  quart  of  juice  at  a  time.  Put  in  a  flat  four- 
quart  pan  and  boil  rapidly.  Put  one  quart  of  sugar  in 
oven  to  warm  at  same  time,  and  clean  glasses  in  pan  of 
water  on  top  of  stove  to  heat.    Boil  juice  ten  minutes,  add 


69 

hot  sugar  and  boil  until  drops  hang  on  spoon — about  ten 
minutes.  Skim  carefully  all  impurities  that  rise  to  sur- 
face. Pour  in  glasses,  remove  from  stove,  and  let  them 
remain  in  the  pan  until  all  is  cold.  Pour  boiling  paraffine 
on  top  until  entire  top  is  covered.     Put  top  on  and  label. 

Evelyn  Harris. 

Grape   Juice,  No.   1. 

Wash,  stem  and  boil  grapes  until  tender.  Strain.  To 
nine  pints  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  ten  min- 
utes, bottle  and  seal.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Krusen. 

Grape  Juice,  No.  2. 
Wash,  stem,  slightly   mash,  and  put  grapes  on   in   large 
kettle  with  cup  of  water.     Drain  as  for  jelly.     Sweeten  to 
taste.    Let  come  to  a  good  boil.    Bottle  and  seal. 

M.  H.  H. 
Quince  Honey. 

Two  quarts  of  cold  water,  five  large  quinces.  Grate  or 
grind  quinces  and  put  them  in  water  in  kettle  and  boil 
well.    Add  five  pounds  of  sugar  andboil  until  like  jelly. 

F.  R.  Watson. 

Orange  Marmalade. 
Four  oranges,  two  lemons  or  one  grape  fruit,  eleven 
glasses  of  water,  four  pounds  sugar.  Slice  the  fruit  thin, 
add  water,  let  soak  twenty-four  hours,  then  cook  for  one 
hour,  then  add  sugar  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours 
more,  then  cook  till  done.  Mrs.  R.  P.  N. 

Orange  and   Pear  Marmalade. 

Peel,  quarter  and  remove  core  and  seeds  from  three 
pounds  of  pears  and  run  through  coarse  part  of  meat 
chopper.  Remove  seeds  and  thick  part  from  two  large 
"ranges  and  run  through  meat  chopper,  peel  and  all.  Add 
two  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  the  pears  and 
oranges  and  cook  about  one  hour.  Mrs.  Harry  Davis. 
Peach  Marmalade. 

Cut  up  ripe  peaches,  using  three-quarters  pound  of 
sugar  to  pound  of  fruit.  Sugar  and  let  stand  over  night  if 
desired.   Put  on  back  of  stove  in  the  morning  and  let  cook 

6 


70 

slowly,  being  careful  not  to  let  burn.    Cook  until  syrup  is 
desired  thickness,  when  jar  and  seal.      Sallie  B.  Norris. 

Preserved  Peaches. 

Have  peaches  pared  and  weighed.  Use  one-half  pound 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  Let  stand  over  night  to  form  a 
syrup.  Place  on  stove  and  let  cook  gradually  for  nearly  a 
day.  Maggie  Duyer. 

Spiced  or  Sweet  Pickled  Cantaloupe. 

Lay  seven  pounds  of  fruit  not  quite  ripe  in  weak  brine 
over  night.  Next  morning  boil  in  weak  alum  water  until 
transparent,  then  drain.  Boil  together  one  pint  vinegar, 
two  ounces  stick  cinnamon,  one  ounce  whole  cloves,  three 
pounds  sugar.  Add  fruit  and  cook  twenty  minutes  longer, 
then  pour  in  stone  jar  and  cover  close.  Scald  over  for 
two  mornings  boiling  syrup  and  pouring  over  fruit,  then 
seal.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Bowers. 

Spiced   Cherries,  Pears,  Peaches. 

To  seven  pounds  of  fruit  add  three  pounds  sugar,  one- 
half  ounce  whole  allspice  and  one-half  ounce  whole  cloves 
(tie  allspice  and  cloves  in  small  bag),  two-thirds  pint  vine- 
gar and  let  set  over  night.  Pour  syrup  off  and  let  cook 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  pour  over  the  fruit.  Do  this 
for  six  mornings  then  the  seventh  morning  cook  fruit  and 
syrup  together  until  syrup  is  as  thick  as  you  like  it. 

Mrs.  Albert  Jervis. 

Green  Tomato   Sweet  Pickle. 

Slice  tomatoes  and  sprinkle  each  layer  lightly  with  salt. 
Let  stand  about  three  hours.  Drain  well  and  to  seven 
pounds  of  tomatoes  add  three  pounds  sugar,  one  pint 
vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon 
bark;  break  up  and  tie  in  a  bag.  Cook  until  tender  and 
syrup  is  thick  as  desired.  Emma  Meeks. 

Stuffed  Sweet  Peppers. 

Cut  off  the  stem  end,  remove  all  seeds  and  inside  white 
fibre.  Put  in  weak  brine  over  night.  Chop  a  white  cab- 
bage very  fine,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  grated  horse  rad- 
ish and  one  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed,  and  one  cupful 


71 

of  sugar.  Fill  the  peppers  with  the  mixture  and  tie  or 
fasten  the  tops  with  toothpicks.  Take  enough  good  cider 
vinegar  to  cover  and  add  whole  cloves,  mace,  and  allspice 
and  a  one-half  pound  of  sugar  if  you  like  them  sweet. 
Boil  the  vinegar  and  spices  and  pour  over  the  peppers. 
adding  the  sugar.     Seal  up.  Ida  M.  Beck. 

Chow   Chow. 

Cut  fine  and  sprinkle  with  salt  :  One-half  peck  green 
tomatoes,  one-quarter  peck  onions,  two  heads  of  cabbage, 
one  large  green  sweet  pepper,  two  large  red  sweet  pep- 
pers or  handful  of  small  red  ones.  Let  stand  two  hours, 
then  squeeze  well  and  add  one-quarter  peck  string  beans 
(parboiled),  one  quart  lima  beans  (parboiled),  two  dozen 
pickles  sliced  thin,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  ounce 
tumeric,  one  ounce  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  celery  seed, 
one  ounce  cloves  (whole),  one  ounce  allspices  (whole), 
one  ounce  dry  mustard.  Put  all  together,  cover  with  vine- 
gar, and  let  come  to  a  boil.     Seal  in  airtight  jars. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Walter. 

Pepper  Sauce. 

Two  large  heads  of  cabbage,  chop  and  salt  over  night 
and  drain.  Six  peppers,  one-half  gallon  of  vinegar,  one 
teacup  of  sugar,  white  mustard  and  celery  seed  to  suit  the 
taste.    Boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

Hope  Hackett. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  two  large  heads  of  cabbage, 
one  quart  lima  beans,  two  cans  corn,  ten  cents  worth  of 
mustard  seed  (four  ounces),  live  cents  worth  of  celery 
seed  (one  ounce),  five  cents  worth  of  tumeric  (two 
ounces),  one  quart  white  onions,  one  dozen  cucumbers, 
one  dozen  peppers  (one-half  red  and  one-half  green),  one 
head  cauliflower,  two  pounds  sugar,  one  gallon  vinegar. 
Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cut  tomatoes  up.  Let  set  all 
night,  then  drain  water  or.  Mix  with  the  rest  of  the 
quantity  and  cook  until  tender.        Mrs.  Joiix  M.  KlNSEY. 


72 

Pickled  Cherries. 

Take  early  Richmond  or  any  other  sour  cherry,  seed 
and  drain  well.  Put  in  a  stone  crock,  cover  with  good 
cider  vinegar  for  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  again  well, 
weigh,  take  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Put  all  in  crock,  let 
remain  till  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  seal  in 
glass  jars.  M.  E.  Usilton. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Bushel  ripe  tomatoes,  well  cooked  and  strained,  three 
pints  vinegar,  four  teaspoons  each  of  ground  cloves,  all- 
spice, cinnamon  and  white  pepper,  two  cups  sugar,  two 
teaspoons  each  of  mace  and  cayenne  pepper,  six  large 
onions,  one-half  pound  salt,  one  ounce  mustard  seed.  One 
gill  of  horse  radish  can  he  used  if  so  desired.  Put  onions 
and  all  the  spices  except  pepper  in  bags.  Cook  until  it 
thickens,  which,  with  slow  cooking  will  be  the  greater 
part  of  a  day.  This  does  not  make  a  very  hot  catsup;  use 
more  pepper,  according  to  taste.  Bottle  boiling  hot.  Seal 
in  airtight  jars.  Mrs.  Ciias.  Walter. 

Chili   Sauce. 

Thirty-six  large  ripe  tomatoes,  fifteen  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  twelve  onions,  five  tablespoonfuls  salt,  five  red  and 
green  peppers,  ten  cups  vinegar.  Add  white  and  black 
mustard  seed  and  celery  seed  to  taste.  Chop  fine,  cook 
one  and  one-half  hours,  or  until  thick  enough. 

Louise  Toulson. 
India   Relish. 

Three  quarts  green  tomatoes  (sliced),  one  quart  onions, 
six  large  sweet  red  peppers.  Chop  these  fine  and  add 
one-half  of  small  tumbler  salt,  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  celery  seed,  three  of  mustard, 
two  of  ground  ginger,  one  heaped  tablespoonful  of  tu- 
meric, one  quart  of  vinegar.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes and  put  in  airtight  jars.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Crowding. 

Pickled  Beets. 

One  quart  water,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  five  cents  worth  all- 
spice; tie  allspice  in  a  bag.  Boil  all  together  and  skin. 
Cook  beets  until  tender.  Pour  boiling  vinegar  over  beets, 
and  seal  while  hot.  Carrie  Schofield, 


73 

Pickled   Beef. 

In  four  gallons  of  water  put  ten  pounds  salt,  four 
pounds  sugar,  one  ounce  saltpeter.  Boil  and  skim.  When 
cold,  pour  over  beef  and  leave  fourteen  days.  This  is 
enough  for  100  pounds  meat.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Webb. 


CHEESE 


Cheese  Fondu. 

Soak  one  cup  bread  crumbs  in  two  cups  milk,  add  three 
eggs  beaten  lightly,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Lastly  add  two  cups  of 
grated  cheese.     Mix  together  and  bake. 

Ida  C.  Schofield. 

Cheese   Souffle. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  grated  cheese,  two  eggs.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  thorough- 
ly mix.  Add  cold  milk,  cook  about  five  minutes,  then  add 
cheese  and  yolks  of  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Lastly  fold  in 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes.     Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Julian  Joxes. 

Cheese    Ralston. 

One-quarter  cup  Ralston  Wheat  Food,  two  eggs,  one- 
quarter  cup  grated  cheese,  one  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  one-third  teaspoon  mustard;  cayenne  and  salt  to 
taste.  Cook  Ralston  and  milk  five  minutes.  Add  butter, 
yolks  of  eggs,  mustard,  salt,  cayenne  and  cheese,  then  fold 
in  carefully  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  pour  into  a  greased 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Hattie  Barnard  Colmns. 

Cheese    Balls. 

One-quarter  pound  grated  cheese,  one-half  cup  bread 
crumbs,  tin-  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  a  dash  of  cayenne. 
Mix  and  mould  into  small  balls.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until 
brown.  II.  B.  Nichols. 


74 


CURING    OF    MEAT. 


No.    I. 

After  the  animal  heat  is  out  of  the  meat  take  hams  and 
shoulders,  rub  fine  salt  over  them  and  put  them  in  a  hogs- 
head, placing  the  hocks,  similarly  treated,  in  the  small 
spaces.  Pack  as  close  as  possible  to  take  less  pickle. 
•Make  a' pickle  of  one  pound  of  saltpeter,  two  gallons  dark 
sweet  molasses  and  ground  alum,  salt  sufficient  to  bear  an 
egg.  Pour  pickle  in  hogshead  and  if  that  is  not  sufficient 
to  cover  meat  make  enough  pickle  of  water  and  ground 
alum  salt  to  bear  an  egg  that  will  fully  cover  meat.  Leave 
meat  in  pickle  for  six  weeks  or  more.  When  taken  out  of 
pickle  hang  up  until  dry,  then  smoke  for  day  or  more  with 
chips  or  cobs.  Then  bag  in  paper  or  cotton  bags  lined 
with  paper,  or  if  not  wishing  to  bag  them,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  borax. 

Dry  salt  the  middlings,  placing  one  on  top  of  another 
with  plenty  of  ground  alum  salt  to  stay  six  weeks.  Hang 
up,  smoke  and  sprinkle  with  borax.  Harry  Davis. 

No.  2. 

Two  hundred  pounds  ham,  twelve  pounds  brown  sugar, 
one-quarter  pound  ground  saltpeter,  one-quarter  pound 
black  pepper;  about  twenty-five  pounds  of  salt.  Thor- 
oughly mix  these  ingredients  on  a  table.  Place  the  ham 
on  the  pile  of  mixture,  skin  downwards.  Rub  the  flesh 
side  well,  and  stuff  hock  end  full  of  mixture,  some  of 
which  sprinkle  on  bottom  of  barrel.  Place  a  layer  of 
hams  in  barrel,  skin  down,  covering  top  surface  liberally 
with  mixture.  Continue  thus  with  the  hams,  each  having 
been  treated  in  the  same  way  until  the  supply  is  exhaust- 
ed. Then  comes  the  shoulders  treated  in  like  manner, 
followed  by  middlings  and  chines  so  treated.  They  make 
their  own  brine,  of  which  the  hams,  at  the  bottom,  get  the 
full  benefit.  Leave  in  brine  for  about  one  month  when 
hang  up  and  smoke  for  a  few  days.   Sprinkle  a  little  borax 


75 

on  meat,  if  desired,  when  taken  out  of  brine.  While  this 
militates  against  the  sale  of  the  meat,  being  against  the 
pure  food  law,  it  insures  against  the  skipper  fly.  These 
hams  are  not  used  until  a  year  old.  S.  S.  Hepburn. 

No.  3. 

Eighty  pounds  of  meat,  one  quart  fine  salt  crushed  to 
powder,  two  ounces  saltpeter,  four  ounces  brown  sugar. 
Mix  well  and  apply  to  meat,  rubbing  flesh  side  thoroughly, 
being  liberal  with  amount  rubbed  around  bones  and  in 
hock  end  of  hams  and  shoulders.  Lay  each  piece  skin 
down,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  touch.  After  twenty- 
four  hours  apply  one  quart  fine  salt  to  same  quantity  of 
meat.  Place  again  as  before  without  letting  the  pieces 
touch  and  let  stand  two,  maybe  three,  months,  when  hang. 
(If  not  cooked  for  six  months  after  cured  the  flavor  will 
be  fine.)  Mrs.  W.  D.  Pennington. 

No.  4. 

To  one  hundred  pounds  meat  take  two  pounds  brown 
sugar,  one-quarter  pound  saltpeter,  one-quarter  pound 
black  pepper,  one-eighth  pound  red  pepper,  two  quarts 
salt,  one  tablespoon  cloves.  Mix  ingredients  together  and 
rub  well  into  the  meat.  Lay  out  separately  for  six  weeks, 
then  hang  up  and  smoke.  Albert  Jervis. 

Sausage,   No.   1. 

Cut  meat  in  strips  and  mix  well  with  seasoning  before 
grinding.  Twenty  pounds  of  meat,  one  cup  of  salt,  one- 
half  cup  of  pepper,  small  handful  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
sage.  Miss  R.  Parrott. 

Sausage,  No.  2. 

Twenty  pounds  of  meat,  three-quarters  cup  salt,  one- 
half  cup  pepper,  one-quarter  cup  sage,  one-quarter  cup 
brown  sugar.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Taylor. 

Soused  Pig  Feet. 

Clean  well  and  boil  until  thoroughly  tender  in  water 
salted  to  taste.  Pick  out  all  bones,  mix  well  with  vinegar, 
pack  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and  when  cold,  cut  in  slices. 

Mrs.  Mattie  Gale. 


76 

Hogshead  Cheese. 

Cut  and  clean  out  the  ears  and  scrape  thoroughly  one 
hog's  head.  If  salt,  soak  twenty-four  hours;  put  on  to 
boil,  and  cover  with  water,  boil  until  tender,  drain,  pick 
out  the  bones,  grind,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper, 
sage,  a  little  vinegar  and  mustard.  Pack  in  a  crock  or 
pan  to  cool;  when  cold,  turn  out  and  serve  sliced  thin. 

Mrs.  Emma  Jarrell. 

Scrapple. 

Boil  sweet  bones,  hearts  and  scraps  of  meat  until  very 
tender.  Cool,  separate  bones  from  meat  with  the  hands. 
Grind  hearts,  add  one-fourth  quantity  of  nice  skins.  Boil 
until  very  tender,  throw  away  water.  Grind  skins  and 
cook  with  water  bones  were  boiled  in.  Season  with  sage, 
salt  and  pepper.  Sift  together  three  pints  of  meal,  one  of 
flour.  Sprinkle  meal  and  flour  with  left  hand;  stir  with 
right.  Cook  all  five  minutes  or  until  batter  is  of  the  con- 
sistency of  pound  cake  batter.    Pour  in  pans  to  cool. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Clendaniel. 


TABLE  OF  MEASURES. 


Four  teaspoonfuls  (liquid)  make  one  tablespoonful. 

Three  teaspoonfuls  (dry)  make  one  tablespoonful. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  (liquid)  make  one  wine  glass  full. 

One-half  pint  makes  one  cup. 

Two  cups  make  one  pint. 

Four  cups  make  one  quart. 

One  cup  of  butter  (solid),  makes  one-half  pound. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar  makes  one-half  pound. 

One  round  tablespoonful  of  butter  makes  one  ounce. 

Sixteen  tablespoons  (liquid)  make  one  cup. 

Fifteen  level  tablespoons  (dry)  make  one  cup. 


77 


N  EW    RECIPES 


BEVERAGES. 


Black   Coffee. 

One  cup  coffee,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  one-third  egg. 
five  cups  boiling  water,  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Mix 
coffee,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  and  egg  together,  and  let 
stand  ten  minutes  in  coffee  pot.  Pour  in  the  boiling  water 
and  boil  gently  for  five  minutes.  Remove  to  warm  part 
dt  stove,  add  one-half  cup  cold  water,  pouring  some  of  it 
down  the  spout  of  coffee  pot.     Serve  at  once. 

Susan  V.  Hill. 

Good   Coffee. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  finely  ground  coffee  to  cup  of  water. 
If  a  percolator  coffee  pot  is  used  be  sure  and  use  cold 
water  and  let  it  percolate  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If  an 
ordinary  agate  coffee  pot  is  used  it  is  better  to  have  a  bag 
or  percolator  to  put  coffee  in  before  placing  it  in  pot. 
With  some  coffees  better  results  are  obtained  by  using 
cold — some  by  using  hot  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  but 
do  not  boil.    Stand  on  back  of  stove  till  needed.      M.  M. 

Cocoa. 

One-quarter  cup  cocoa,  one-quarter  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
water  or  coffee  (hot),  three  cups  milk  (hot).  Mix  cocoa 
and  sugar  together  in  a  saucepan,  pour  over  this  the  hot 
water  or  coffee  and  let  boil  until  a  syrup  is  formed  (this 
cooks  the  starch  in  the  cocoa).  Add  the  hot  milk  stir- 
ring it  in  slowly,  return  to  a  double  boiler  and  let  cook 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  A  few  grains  of  salt  and  a 
drop  of  vanilla  may  be  added  just  before  serving.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  or  beat  to  a  froth  with  a  Dover 
beater.  Susan  V.  Hill. 


78 

Chocolate. 

Four  cups  milk  or  two  cups  milk  and  two  cups  of  water, 
two  ounces  chocolate,  one-third  cup  sugar,  and  one-quar- 
ter cup  hot  water.  Grate  or  cut  the  chocolate  into  small 
pieces,  place  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler,  add  the 
sugar  and  one-quarter  cup  hot  water.  Let  melt  and  cook 
with  sugar  until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed.  Add  to  this 
the  milk  or  water  and  milk  stirring  constantly  and  adding 
liquid  very  slowly.  Beat  with  Dover  egg-beater  and  allow 
it  to  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  longer. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hill. 

Tea   (Strong). 

Two  tablespoonfuls  tea,  four  cups  boiling  water.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  the  tea  leaves  and  let  stand  five  min- 
utes. If  cold  tea  is  desired  dilute  with'  four  cups  cold  wa- 
ater  and  allow  it  to  cool  and  serve  ice  cold. 

NOTE — (a)   Use  only  water  that  is  just  beginning  to  boil. 

(b)  Do  not  use  a  tin  teapot;  use  a  tea  ball  crockery  or  china  teapot. 

(c)  Do  not  use  tea  leaves  a  second  time. 

(d)  Never  allow  tea  to  boil. 

(e)  Do  not  allow  leaves  to  remain  after  steeping  has  been  accom- 
plished. 


Bread,  Cakes,  Etc. 


Light  Bread  (one  loaf) — Quick  Process — Three  cups 
flour,  1  cup  milk  or  water,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  lard  or  Crisco,  one 
yeast  cake  (Fleischmann). 

Method:  Scald  the  milk  or  boil  the  water,  add  to  the 
salt,  sugar,  and  fat  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Cool  until 
luke  warm,  add  yeast  softened  in  one-quarter  cup  hike 
warm  water.  Add  one-half  the  flour,  beat  until  smooth. 
Cover  and  set  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  until  doubled  in 
bulk.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  mix  well.  Put 
on  a  lightly  floured  board  and  knead  until  smooth  and 
elastic.  Mold  into  a  loaf,  place  in  a  well  greased  pan, 
cover,  and  let  double  its  bulk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  40  to 
60  minutes. 


79 

Light  Bread — Slow  Process — As  for  quick  process  with 
tluse  exceptions:  Use  only  one-quarter  yeast  cake.  Add 
all  the  flour  and  knead  once  before  setting  to  rise.  Lei 
rise  over  night  at  room  temperature,  instead  of  in  a  pan 
of  warm  water.  In  the  morning  knead,  mold  into  loa 
and  proceed  as  above.  Susan  V.  Hill. 

Potato  Biscuit — One  cup  mashed  potatoes,  one-half  cup 
of  lard,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
one  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one-half  of  an  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  one  cup  of  warm  water.  When  light  add 
flour  to  make  stiff,  let  lighten  again.  Roll  out,  cut  with 
small  round  cutter.  Grease  with  a  little  butter  or  lard  on 
top.     Let  lighten  again  and  bake. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Goodhanm. 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuit — One  quart  sweet  potatoes  mashed 
fine,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup 
boiled  milk.  When  hike  warm  add  one  yeast  cake,  add  to 
this  one  cup  flour  for  sponge.  Let  sponge  rise  and  drop 
back,  then  add  sweet  potatoes,  one  well  beaten  egg,  three 
cups  flour,  beat  well  and  let  rise  well.  Drop  with  table- 
spoon on  well  greased  tin  and  let  them  rise  again.  Bake 
15  or  20  minutes.    Do  not  handle  dough. 

Belle  M.  Crank. 

Bran  Rolls — Scald  one  pint  milk,  dissolve  in  this  when 
cool  enough,  one  yeast  cake,  four  tablespoons  lard,  two 
cups  bran,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons salt.  Add  enough  white  Hour  to  work.  Lighten 
and  make  into  pocketbook  rolls.  tE  L.  Copper. 

Spoon  Corn  Bread — One  cup  of  cornmeal,  one  pint  boil- 
ing water,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  lard,  one  cup 
milk,  two  eggs.  Place  the  boiling  water  in  a  mixing  bowl 
and  sift  the  cornmeal  into  it,  stirring  all  the  time.  Next 
add  the  salt  and  lard,  then  the  milk  and  last  of  all  the 
eggs  beaten  very  light.  Turn  into  a  well  greased  pan  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Annie  L.  Copper. 

Plain  Waffles — Two  cups  flour,  one  tablespoon  baking 
powder  level,  one  teaspoon  salt  level,  two  tablespoons 
sugar,    one    large    cup    milk,    two    eggs,    two    tablespoons 


80 

melted  fat.  Beat  eggs  separately.  Sift  together  all  dry 
ingredients,  add  milk,  egg  yolks  and  shortening.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  add  stiffly  beaten  whites.  J.  B.  M. 

Nut  Bread — One  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sweet  milk,  four  cups  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoon  salt  mixed  with  one  cup  chopped 
English  or  black  walnuts  (preferred).  Stand  in  well 
greased  bread  pan  one-half  hour  and  bake  slowly  for  one 
hour.     (Better  second  day.)  O.  H.  M. 

Buns — One  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  one-half  cup  of 
yeast,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  little 
salt.  Let  lighten  then  add  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  lard, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  and  flour  to  make  stiff.  Let  lighten 
again.  Then  roll  out  about  one-quarter  inch  thick,  spread 
with  butter,  syrup,  and  raisins  then  cinnamon.  Roll  this 
up  and  cut  off  in  slices.  Put  in  well-greased  pans  and 
spread  butter,  syrup  and  cinnamon  on  top  and  let  rise. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Bertha  Hackett  Newcomb. 

Cocoanut  Cookies — (No  flour  used.)  Whites  of  three 
eggs,  one-half  pound  pulverized  sugar,  one-half  pound  dry 
confectioner's  cocoanut.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  cocoa- 
nut  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  a  buttered  pan.  Cook 
with  rather  quick  heat.    Do  not  remove  from  pan  till  cold. 

Mrs.  John  N.  Roberts. 

Oatmeal  Cookies — (No  flour  used.)  Two  and  one-half 
cups  oatmeal,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  (whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately),  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  two 
teaspoons  of  vanilla,  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  or 
oil.  After  mixing  let  stand  one-half  hour  before  baking 
in  moderate  oven.  Lucille  Parr. 

Chocolate  Icing — (Uncooked.)  Two  cups  4X  sugar,  six 
teaspoons  cocoa,  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  four 
tablespoons  hot  milk  or  coffee,  two  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Beat  until  smooth  and  thick,  ice  cake  while  warm. 

M.    F. 

Sponge  Cake — Four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour, 
vanilla  or  lemon  to  flavor.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  half 
cup  sugar  until  very  thick.    Then  beat  yolks  into  one-half 


si 

cup  sugar  until  thick.  Add  beaten  yolks  to  beaten  whites 
slowly.  When  mixed  add  one  cup  of  flour  (sifted),  flavor 
to  taste  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes. 
Then  ice  with  the  following  icing:  One  cup  brown  sugar, 
one-half  cup  white  sugar,  scant  one-half  cup  water.  Boil 
these  until  it  threads,  and  pour  slowly  over  two  well 
beaten  whites  (saved  from  the  cake  batter,  if  liked). 

Helen  Harper  Davis. 

Western  Cookies — Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
or  lard,  three  cups  flour  (measured  after  being  sifted), 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  level  teaspoon  soda,  two 
teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  of  black 
walnuts  (ground).     Bake  in  gem  tins. 

Mrs.  Kate  Collins. 

Whipped  Cream  (Substitute). — White  of  one  egg,  well 
beaten  with  one  banana  mashed  fine  and  a  little  lemon 
juice.  H.  B.  C. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream — Make  a  custard  of  three  pints  of 
milk,  eight  eggs  (leaving  out  the  whites)  and  one  pound 
of  sugar.  Then  add  one-half  cake  of  chocolate,  soaked 
in  one  pint  of  milk.  Flavor  to  taste.  English  walnuts 
chopped  up  adds  very  much  to  the  flavor. 

Mrs.  Allan  A.  Harris. 

Fruit  Ice  Cream,  No.  1 — Three  quarts  of  milk,  one  quart 
of  cream  (more  is  better),  four  eggs,  three  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  two  pounds  sugar.  Let  three 
pints  of  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  yolks  of  eggs. 
Cornstarch  and  part  of  the  sugar  well  beaten  together; 
cook  until  thick,  then  cool  and  add  the  remainder  of  milk, 
sugar  and  cream.  Put  it  in  the  freezer  and  when  nearly 
frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  egg>  and  one  quart  to 
three  pints  of  pineapple,  white  or  red  cherries,  peaches, 
or  bananas.  To  the  cooked  custard  add  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  This  makes  about  a  gallon 
and  a  half.  H.  H.  I 


82 
RECIPES  FOR  SUGARLESS  DAYS. 


Fruit  Ice  Cream,  No.  2 — One  quart  milk,  one  can  con- 
densed milk,  two  eggs  beaten  together.  Add  fresh  fruit. 
This  makes  two  quarts.  H.  B.  C. 

Molasses  Sauce — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 
Boil  molasses  and  butter  five  minutes,  remove  from  fire 
and  add  juice.     Fine  over  plain  cakes  or  puddings. 

H.  B.  C. 

Ginger  Cookies — One  teacup  molasses  and  one  table- 
spoonful  soda  stirred  together,  one  cup  Crisco,  one  egg, 
one  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  salt  (cloves, 
allspice,  nutmeg  added  make  a  more  spicy  cake),  and 
flour  enough  to  make  stiff.  Roll  out,  cut  with  small  round 
cutter  and  bake.  Hope  Hackett. 

Pat-a-Cake  Gems — One  box  of  Pat-a-Cake,  well  sifted 
with  one  teaspoon  yeast  powder  and  mixed  well  with  but- 
ter size  of  walnut  and  melted,  one  large  cup  of  milk  and 
three-quarter  cup  floured  raisins.  Bake  in  gem  pans  20 
minutes.  The  batter  thus  mixed,  leaving  out  the  raisins  is 
fine  for  layer  cakes,  and  with  a  little  less  milk  for  loaf 
cake.  Clara  Medders. 


VEGETABLES. 


Candied  Sweet  Potatoes — Boil  the  potatoes  until  done, 
then  peel  and  slice  in  rather  thin  slices  and  place  in  bak- 
ing dish  with  layer  of  sugar  and  small  pieces  of  butter 
placed  around.  Alternate  layers  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Pour  over  enough  milk  to  keep  from  scorching  and  bake 
slowly.  Mrs.  S.  S.  Hepburn. 

Potato  Crullers — Three  or  four  good  sized  potatoes,  boil 
and  mash.  Butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
cream  all  together  while  the  potatoes  are  hot,  one-half 
cup  milk,  four  eggs,  four  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
flavor  with  either  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough,  roll  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Boil  salt  in  potatoes. 

Mamie  Norris. 


83 

Tomato  Soup — Into  a  skillet  put  two  tablespoons  of 
butter  and  melt.  Add  to  this  an  onion  sliced  and  fry  until 
the  onion  is  well  done.  Remove  the  onion  and  into  the 
fat  blend  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  the  strained  juice 
of  one  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  which  has  been  heated. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  wa- 
ter and  serve.  Mrs.  W.  K.  Hackett. 

Chicken  Terrapin — Two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon pepper,  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk.  Cook 
until  creamy,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  diced 
chicken,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  fine.  Let  all  boil  until 
it  thickens,  add  one  tablespoon  vinegar  before  taking 
from  stove.  If  so  preferred  put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with 
buttered  crumbs,  and  brown  in  oven.  Add  more  milk, 
salt  and  pepper,  if  necessary.  Annie  L.  Copper. 

Beef-en-Casserole — One  and  one-half  pounds  beef,  one- 
half  pound  pork,  one  small  can  tomatoes,  one  pepper,  one 
onion,  three  shredded  wheat  biscuits.  Grind  separately 
and  put  in  casserole  one  layer  at  time,  leaving  the  toma- 
toes on  top.    Bake.  Mrs.  Earl  Jewell. 

Chipped  Beef  With  Scrambled  Eggs — Beat  six  eggs  to  a 
light  froth,  add  three-quarters  cups  of  milk  and  season- 
ing. Put  lump  of  butter  in  hot  skillet,  add  mixture,  let 
stand  till  it  begins  to  thicken  when  add  one  cup  of  chip- 
ped beef  (which  has  previously  been  soaking  in  boiling 
water)  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  has  hardened. 
This  will  serve  five  people.  Mary  W.  Hague. 

Eggs  au  Gratin— Prepare  a  dressing  of  one  tablespoon 
of  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Place  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  cold  and  cut 
oblong  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  a  few  fine 
bread  crumbs,  then  pour  the  dressing  over  all,  and  set  in 
the  oven  to  thicken  and  brown.  L.  E.  Busk  :k, 

Fruit  Salad,  No.  1 — Cut  all  the  fruits  in  season,  and  pre- 
served peaches,  cut  fine  may  be  added.  Beat  indefinitely 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar, 
just  before  serving  put  juice  of  one  lemon  in  dressing. 

Jane  Vickers  Robinson. 


84 

Fruit  Salad,  No.  2 — Cut  in  dice  pineapple,  pears  or  ap- 
ples (these  either  fresh  or  canned)  and  oranges.  Add  a 
few  red  cherries  either  spiced  or  sun-preserved.  Pour 
over  all  French  dressing  made  with  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

O.  H.  M. 

French  Dressing — One  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon of  white  pepper  or  few  grains  cayenne,  two  table- 
spoons cider  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  and  four  tablespoons 
of  olive  oil.     Mix  ingredients  and  stir  until  well  blended. 

Susan  V.  Hill. 

Grape  Fruit  Salad — Two  large  fruits.  Peel  and  cut  in 
dice,  being  sure  seed  and  all  white  skin  is  removed.  Place 
this  in  crisp  white  lettuce  leaf  and  use  the  following 
dressing:  Juices  of  two  oranges  and  one-half  lemon, 
three-quarter  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Cook,  until 
thick  then  add  the  beaten  whites;  thin  this  with  whipped 
cream.  Bertha  Hackett  Newcomb. 

Perfection  Salad — One  envelope  Knox  Gelatine,  one- 
half  cup  cold  water,  one-half  cup  mild  vinegar,  one  pint 
boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  finely  shred- 
ded cabbage,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two 
cups  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  one-quarter  can  sweet  red 
peppers,  finely  cut.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  water  five  min- 
utes. Add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  boiling  water,  sugar  and 
salt.  Strain,  and  when  beginning  to  set  add  remaining 
ingredients.  Turn  into  a  mold  and  chill.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Helen  Harper  Davis. 

CANDY. 

Washington's  Favorite — One  pound  XXXX  sugar,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  cream. 
Mix  together  and  then  work  well  as  you  would  make  but- 
ter. Flavor  and  color  as  you  desire.  Mixed  with  chopped 
nuts  or  fruit  this  makes  delicious  Easter  eggs.  Form  into 
eggs,  using  a  large  tablespoon  to  shape.  Lay  the  egg  aside 
to  dry.  Then  place  one-half  pound  of  chocolate,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  piece  of  parafine  the  size  of  an 
almond  in  a  double  boiler  and  heat  slowly.  Now  dip  the 
egg  and  lay  on   a  wax  paper  to  dry.     To  ornament   the 


85 

egg,  place  in  a  bowl  one-half  cup  of  sifted  XXXX  sugar 
and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract 
and  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  the  mixture  spread 
without  running.  Beat  for  five  minutes  to  blend  and  then 
cover  closely.  Make  a  cornucopia  of  heavy  wax  paper, 
fill  with  this  icing,  and  using  this,  borders,  names  and  de- 
signs may  be  made.  Mrs.  Harvey  B.  Moore. 

Cocoa  Fudge — Two  cups  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
four  tablespoons  cocoa,  two-thirds  cup  milk.  Boil  15  min- 
utes. Edna  Hackett. 

Candied  Grape  Fruit  or  Orange  Peel — Take  grape  fruit 
or  orange  rinds,  cut  in  thin  strips,  put  on  in  cold  water 
three  times  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  To  three  grape  fruit 
rinds  or  four  orange  rinds,  melt  two  cups  sugar  (well 
moistened)  in  saucepan.  Drop  in  fruit.  Cook  till  clear. 
Lift  with  fork  and  roll  in  granulated  sugar.  M.  M. 

Strawberry  and  Rhubarb  Jam — Use  equal  parts  rhu- 
barb and  strawberries.  To  each  cup  of  the  mixture,  use 
three-quarters  cup  of  sugar.  The  rhubarb  should  be  cut 
into  one-half  inch  length,  and  the  berries  crushed.  Bring 
slowly  to  boil  and  cook  30  minutes,  add  sugar  and  cook 
until  of  desired  consistency.  Seal  in  sterilized  jars.  To 
avoid  danger  of  mold,  process  jars  for  25  minutes  in  water 
bath.  O.  H.  M. 

Apple  Butter — To  five  gallons  of  cut  apples,  take  five 
pounds  sugar  and  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Put  the  apples 
over  the  fire  with  enough  water  to  cook  down,  add  the 
sugar  and  stir  well,  then  add  the  vinegar  with  ground  all- 
spice to  flavor.  Continue  to  boil  and  stir  until  done.  I  do 
not  use  but  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  very  little  allspice 
and  some  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Bonwill,  Jr. 

Apple-Ginger  Marmalade — Four  pounds  apples,  four 
pounds  sugar,  one  pint  water,  one  ounce  green  ginger, 
grated  rind  of  four  lemons.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  wa- 
ter; chop  the  apples  and  ginger  fine,  add  to  syrup  with 
the  lemon  rind,  and  simmer  slowly  until  it  looks  clear, 
about  four  hours.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses  and  seal  as 
usual.  L.  E.  Busick. 

7 


80 

Pear-Ginger  Marmalade — Pare  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
two  pounds  pears,  add  two  pounds  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of 
ginger.  Put  through  chopper  juice  and  pulp  of  one  lemon, 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange.  Cook  and  put  in 
jars.    Seal  while  hot.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M.  Brooks. 

Grape  Conserve,  No.  2 — Proceed  as  you  would  for  grape 
jelly,  only  using  the  juice  from  the  pulps.  Have  ready 
two  pounds  nut  meats,  chopped  fine,  two  pounds  raisins, 
and  a  little  orange  peel.  This  is  the  amount  for  about  12 
cups  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice  five  minutes  then  add  equal 
amount  of  sugar.  After  this  begins  to  boil  hard,  add  the 
fruits  and  nuts  and  boil  hard  until  it  jells,  about  20  min- 
utes altogether.  Mrs.  Walter  B.  Harris. 

Green  Tomato  Mincemeat — One  peck  green  tomatoes, 
one-quarter  peck  apples,  three  packages  of  seeded  raisins, 
four  pounds  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  suet  chopped 
fine,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  quart  water,  two  teaspoons 
ground  cinnamon,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  ground 
cloves,  two  teaspons  ground  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Put  tomatoes  through  food  chopper,  drain  as  much  of 
green  water  off  as  you  can,  cover  with  cold  water,  let 
come  to  boil  second  time.  Drain  well,  mix  altogether, 
cook  until  thick.  Put  in  jars  while  hot.  Use  large  knife 
in  food  chopper  for  grinding.  Mrs.  Evelyn  Nelson. 

Canned  Soup  Mixture — The  following  combination  of 
vegetables  makes  a  fine  soup  with  good  stock  and  diced 
white  potatoes:  Use  about  one-half  the  quantity  desired 
canned  in  tomatoes.  Other  vegetables  (cut  fine),  cab- 
bage, carrots,  onions,  peppers  (both  sweet  and  hot),  corn, 
celery  leaves  and  parsley.  Let  tomatoes  come  to  a  boil, 
then  add  corn,  celery  and  parsley  and  boil  about  15  min- 
utes. Other  vegetables,  particularly  cabbage,  carrots  and 
onions  should  cook  a  little  longer.  Do  not  use  any  more 
water  than  absolutely  necessary  in  the  cooking,  substi- 
tuting tomato  juice  instead.  After  all  are  cooked  as 
stated,  mix  together,  fill  well  sterilized  jars,  one  and  one- 
half  to  two  teaspoons  of  salt  to  each  quart.  Process  two 
and  one-half  hours.  O.  H.  M. 


87 

PICKLES. 

Pepper  Hash,  No.  1 — Fifteen  red  peppers,  fifteen  green 
peppers,  twelve  onions,  chop  or  grind  with  coarse  grind- 
er, cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  five  minutes, 
drain,  cover  again  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  ten 
minutes,  then  drain  and  add  three-quarter  pound  white 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  vinegar,  salt  to  taste. 
Let  all  boil  15  minutes  and  seal  while  hot. 

Emma  Jarrell. 

Pepper  Hash,  No.  2 — Twelve  sweet  red  peppers,  twelve 
sweet  green  peppers,  three  hot  peppers,  sixteen  onions, 
three  stalks  celery,  four  cups  vinegar,  three  cups  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  of  mustard  seed,  one  tablespoon  of  celery 
seed,  two  tablespoons  of  salt.  Grind  onions  and  celery. 
Salt  for  two  hours,  grind  peppers,  pour  boiling  water  over 
them  and  drain.     Mix  all  together  and  boil  one  hour. 

Mrs.  R.  P.  Nichols. 

Spiced  Cucumbers — Lay  the  cucumbers  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter one  and  one-half  or  two  days,  wash  and  boil  in  half 
vinegar  and  half  water  until  tender,  pack  in  glass  jars  and 
pour  over  spiced  vinegar  boiling  hot  and  seal.  Only  cin- 
namon and  cloves  to  taste  need  be  used.  Sugar  to  taste. 
If  the  vinegar  is  very  strong  dilute  with  water. 

E.  Jarrell. 

Mustard  Pickle — Put  three  quarts  vinegar  on  stove  and 
let  come  to  a  boil,  take  one-quarter  pound  mustard,  add 
to  it  three  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch.  Mix  the  two  with 
vinegar  weakened  with  water,  put  that  in  the  vinegar  and 
let  boil.  Add  to  this  all  cooked  separately  two  quarts  of 
rrreen  tomatoes  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  quarts  of  butter 
beans,  two  nuarts  of  onions,  two  dozen  pickles,  two  quarts 
corn,  three  pounds  sugar,  three  red  and  three  green  pep- 
pers, two  ounces  of  mustard  seed,  two  ounces  of  celery 
seed,  tumeric  enough  to  color  (between  one-quarter  to 
one-half  teaspoonful).  H.  H.  F. 


88 


FEEDING    THE    CHILD. 


Are  You  Feeding  Your  Family  Intelligently? 


An  infant  deprived  of  mother's  milk,  to  which  the  par- 
tially developed  digestive  system  is  adapted,  must  be  fed 
with  the  greatest  care  and  intelligence.  There  is  nothing 
"just  as  good"  as  mother's  milk. 

But  since  many  children  have  to  be  weaned  or  partially 
weaned  even  in  the  early  months  of  the  first  year,  the 
mother  must  know  what  to  feed  and  how  to  feed  her 
baby. 

Cow's  Milk  the  Best  Substitute  for  Mother's  Milk  at 
Our  Disposal. — Cow's  milk  to  be  safe  for  the  baby,  must 
be  clean  and  free  from  adulterants,  must  be  free  of  dis- 
ease germs,  must  be  relatively  fresh  (under  36  hours), 
must  be  kept  cold  after  production. 

If  the  cow  whose  milk  you  feed  your  baby  is  not  kept 
on  your  own  premises,  get  certified  milk  or  the  best 
grade  of  pasteurized  bottled  milk.  Otherwise  always 
scald  milk  before  using  it  for  the  baby.  Where  fresh  milk 
cannot  be  obtained,  milk  powder  (dry  milk)  is  the  best 
form  of  canned  milk  for  infant  use.  (The  Dry  or  Brand 
Milk  Powder  obtained  from  the  Dry  Milk  Co.,  19-27  Park 
Row,  New  York  City,  is  highly  recommended.) 

General  Character  of  the  Diet — Food  must  contain 
plenty  of  the  right  sort  of  material  to  build  up  and  re- 
pair the  living  tissues  of  the  body;  enough  material  to 
use  as  fuel  to  furnish  energy  for  heat  and  work,  an 
abundance  of  mineral  material  and  the  little  known  sub- 
stances which  regulate  body  health  and  growth. 

Children,  like  all  young  animals,  require  more  growth 
or  body-building  material  relative  to  their  size  than  they 
do  when  fully  grown. 


89 

Do  you  know  which  foods  are  necessary  for  growth? 

For  the  best  growth  and  development,  a  child's  food 
must  contain  :  First.  Animal  protein,  found  especially  in 
milk,  eggs,  meat,  including  fish  and  fowl.  The  protein  of 
certain  vegetables  and  nuts  contains  body-building  sub- 
stances and  will  do  to  help  out  the  animal  protein,  but 
will  not  suffice  alone,  for  the  best  growth  and  develop- 
ment of  the  average  child.  Second.  Mineral  matter,  needed 
in  the  growth  and  functioning  of  the  parts  of  the  body, 
such  as  the  skelton,  the  blood,  the  hair,  etc.  The  chief 
sources  of  these  minerals  arc  milk,  eggs,  meat,  green 
vegetables  and  fruits.  Third.  The  substances  regulating 
growth,  found  especially  in  the  fat  of  milk,  eggs,  leaf 
vegetables,  but  not  found  in  vegetable  oils  or  pork  fat. 


Whole  milk  contains  an  abundance  of  animal  protein,  minerals,  and 
the  growth-regulating  substances,  besides  fat  and  sugar.  No  other  food- 
stuff is  therefore  so  important  in  infancy  and  childhood. 

Indispensable  Articles  of  Food  in  Childhood. — 1.  Whole 
milk,  or  skim  milk  with  butter.  2.  Butter.  3.  Green 
vegetables,  especially  leaf  vegetables.  4.  Starchy  foods, 
which  are  the  principal  sources  of  energy  but  are  not 
growth  foods.  To  these  four  essentials  it  is  desirable  to 
add.  Some  eggs  or  meat,  including  fish  or  fowl,  sugar, 
fruits. 


Choose  easily  digested  food  for  the  child  and  see  that  it  is  properly 
cooked. 

Meals  for  the  Well  Child. — By  the  end  of  the  first  year, 
a  child  should  have  four  meals  a  day.  By  the  end  of  the 
second  year  three  meals  a  day  are  sufficient  for  the  aver- 
age child. 

Plenty  at   Meal   Time   and   Nothing   Between   Meals. — A 

baby  at  one  year  may  take  a  quart  of  milk  a  day.  After 
this  age,  as  he  takes  more  cereal  and  bread  with  egg  and 
vegetables,  reduce  the  milk  to  three  cups  a  day.  A  child 
will  take  more  food  if  he  drinks  most  of  the  milk  at  the 
end  instead  of  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal. 

Cereals,  bread,  potato,  and  rice  are  the  starchy  foods 
the  fuel  foods — and  should  be  part  of  every  meal.   Cooked 


90 

cereals  are  best  for  children.  Victory  bread,  thoroughly 
dried  in  the  oven,  can  be  used  from  infancy  on.  The  child 
needs  an  -abundance  of  fuel  food  as  well  as  growth  food. 
Green  vegetables — spinach,  chard,  beet  greens,  beets, 
carrots,  onions,  string  beans,  celery,  asparagus, — should 
appear  in  the  diet  by  the  end  of  the  first  year.  These 
vegetables  should  be  first  used  in  strained  soup  or  broth, 
then  as  purees,  and  by  the  end  of  the  second  year 
mashed  or  finely  divided.  Peas,  beans  (other  than  string 
beans),  and  corn  should  not  be  given  to  very  young  chil- 
dren except  as  purees.  Cauliflower  and  cabbage  may  be 
given  to  older  children. 

Children  crave  sweets,  and  they  should  be  given  these, 
especially  in  the  noon  dessert,  as  simple  puddings,  cus- 
tards, home-made  ice  cream,  fruit,  jellies  or  simple  candy. 


Sweets  between  meals  mean  bad  teeth  and  bad  "tummies." 
Fruits  should  appear  daily  in  the  diet  of  the  child;  fruit 
juices  for  the  baby,  stewed  apples,  or  prune  pulp  later  in 
infancy.  Raw  apple  (at  first  scraped),  oranges,  ripe 
peaches,  and  any  cooked  fruit  may  be  given  to  the  older 
child.  Bananas  are  not  fit  food  for  a  child  to  eat  unless 
the  skin  is  brown  or  the  banana  is  cooked. 

The  Right  Sort  of  Food  at  the  Right  Time. — A  young 
child  should  have  the  principal  meal  at  noon,  including  a 
vegetable  and  meat  soup,  or  an  egg,  or  meat  (including 
fish  and  fowl),  with  a  green  vegetable,  and  starchy  vege- 
table or  cereal.  Cereal  and  milk  with  cooked  fruit  make 
the  best  supper  and  breakfast. 

Preach  the  full  dinner  plate  for  children  and  then  the 
clean  dinner  plate. 

Selected  from  pamphlets  published  by  U.  S.  Department 
of  Labor,  Children's  Bureau,  by 

Margaret  Y.  Rogers, 
Public  Health  Nurse  of  Kent  Co. 


91 

SICK  DIET. 

Beef  Tea. 

Free  a  pound  of  lean  beef  from  fat,  skin,  etc.  Chop  up 
fine.  Put  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  to  digest  two  hours. 
Simmer  for  three  hours,  but  do  not  let  boil.  Make  up  for 
water  lost  by  adding  cold  water.  Press  and  strain.  The 
best  meats  for  beef  tea  arc  the  round  and  rump.  Cold 
water  draws  out  the  albumin  ;  boiling  water  coagulates  it. 
Beef  Juice. 

Cut  thin,  juicy  meat  into  pieces  one  and  one-half  inches 
square;   broil   one   and  one-half   minutes   over  a   hot    fire. 
Squeeze  with  a  hot  lemon  squeezer;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.     May  be  added  to  milk  or  poured  over  toast. 
Oatmeal  Gruel. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled  oats,  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  one  cup  of  boiling  milk.     Mix 

oatmeal,   sugar,  and   salt;   add  boiling  water;   cook  in    a 

saucepan   thirty  minutes,  or   in   a   double  boiler  for  two 

hours.     Strain   and   add  hot   milk.     Bring  to   a   boil   and 

serve  hot. 

Oyster  Broth. 

Chop  a  dozen  oysters  fine;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
cup  of  cold  water.  Bring  to  boiling  point;  simmer  five 
minutes,  then  strain  and  season.  By  adding  milk  three 
minutes  before  broth  is  taken  from  the  fire  it  is  made 
more  palatable. 

Poached  Egg. 
Pour  hot  water  (or  milk)  into  a  saucepan,  using  salt, 
spoonful  of  salt  to  each  cup  of  water.  Bring  to  boiling 
point.  Break  egg  into  a  saucer  and  slip  into  the  pan. 
Withdraw  the  pan  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  stove  and  cook 
till  white  of  egg  is  set. 

Soft  Boiled  and  Hard  Boiled  Eggs  (See  Eggs). 

Stewed  Prunes. 

Wash  thoroughly,  cover  with  cold  water  over  night.    In 

the  morning  put  on  back  of  the  stove  and  let  cook  very 

slowly  about   two  hours.     If  choice   prunes   are   used   no 

sugar  will  be  needed. 

Cup  Custard  (See  Desserts). 

Selected  by  Margaret  Y.  Rogers. 

Public  Health  Nurse  of  Kenl   <<>.,  M.I. 


92 


I  n    Emergen  ci  es. 


First  Send  for  the  Doctor!        Phone  No 

Then  try  to  remove  the  poison  from  the  stomach.  This 
can  usually  be  accomplished  by  tickling  the  back  of  the 
throat  with  the  end  of  the  finger  or  a  feather,  or  by  ad- 
ministering of  emetics. 


EMETICS. 

Alum — One  tablespoon  dissolved  in  cup  of  tepid  water. 
Ipecac — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  syrup  of  ipecac. 
Mustard — One   tablespoonful  mixed   in   half-pint   water. 
Salt — Two  tablespoonfuls  in  half-pint  water. 


ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISON. 
Carbolic  Acid 

Empty  the  stomach  and  give  olive  oil,  one-half  cup  in 
one  pint  of  water,  or  give  milk  or  white  of  egg  in  water. 

Oxalic  Acid — Sulphuric  Acid  (Oil  of  Vitriol) 

Do  not  give  emetics  for  any  of  these  three  poisons.  Give 
whiting,  chalk,  plaster  scraped  from  the  walls,  washing 
soda,  or  soap  and  water.  Follow  with  milk  and  eggs, 
olive  oil,  or  thick  gruel. 

Prussic  Acid 

Give  an  emetic  at  once.  When  stomach  is  emptied  fol- 
low with  milk  or  olive  oil  or  white  of  egg. 

Tartar  Emetic 

Give  large  quantities  of  warm  water  to  provoke  vomit- 
ing. Give  strong  tea.  When  vomiting  ceases  give  white 
of  egg  in  milk  or  water. 


93 

ANTIDOTES  FOR    POISON- Continued. 


Corrosive  Sublimate  (Bichlorid  of  Mercury) 

Give  large  quantities  of  milk  before  giving  emetics. 
Then  empty  the  stomach  thoroughly. 

Illuminating  Gas 

Get   patient   into  fresh,  pure  air.     Open  all  windows. 

Ammonia — Caustic   Potash — Caustic   Soda 
Do  not  give  emetics.     Give   vinegar   in   water  or  lemon 
juice.    Follow  with  olive  oil,  quarter-pint  in  pint  of  wa- 
ter, or  white  of  egg. 

Arsenic  (Fowler's  Solution,  Rough  on  Rats,  Paris  Green) 

Prompt  emetic  should  be  given.  If  there  be  any  medi- 
cine at  hand  containing  iron,  this  can  be  given.  Follow 
with  milk  and  eggs,  olive  oil,  or  barley  water. 

Toadstools — Tobacco 

Produce  vomiting.   Follow  with  strong  coffee  or  brandy. 

Ptomaine  Poisoning 

dive   an   emetic.     Purge   with  castor  oil.     Strong  coffee. 

Opium  —  Laudanum  —  Morphine  —  Paregoric — "Soothing 
Syrup" 

Keep  patient  warm  and  awake  until  arrival  of  doctor. 
Under  no  circumstances  must  he  be  allowed  to  relax 
into  a  stupor.  Shout  at  him,  slap  his  chest  with  wet 
towels,  walk  him  about  with  support  each  side. 


94 


SALT  HINTS. 


Salt  in  water  or  other  fluid  retards  the  boiling. 

Salt,  mixed  with  soda,  is  a  remedy  for  bee  stings. 

Salt  and  water  make  an  excellent  throat  gargle. 

Salt  in  whitewash  will  make  it  stick. 

Salt  and  hot  water  will  thaw  a  frozen  drainpipe. 

Salt  will  remove  tea  stains  from  delicate  china  cups. 

Salt  added  to  snow  makes  the  mixture  much  colder. 

Salt  thrown  on  a  fire  will  extinguish  a  burning  chimney. 

Salt  and  warm  water  is  an  emetic  in  case  of  poisoning. 

Salt  sprinkled  on  a  range  absorbs  grease  splutterings. 

Salt,  warmed  and  rubbed  on  a  soiled  light  coat,  will 
clean  it. 

Salt  added  to  last  water  keeps  clothes  from  freezing. 

Salt  will  clean  a  discolored  bath  tub  or  enameled  ware. 

Salt  placed  first  in  the  frying  pan  prevents  grease  from 
spluttering. 

Salt  will  remove  perspiration  stains  from  your  clothes. 
Soak  the  garments  in  strong  salt  water  before  laundering. 

Salt  and  water  will  clean  willow  furniture.  Apply  it 
with  a  stiff  brush,  scrub  well  and  air  thoroughly. 

Salt  put  in  pan  in  bottom  of  oven  under  baking  tins  is 
said  to  prevent  bread  and  cake  from  scorching  on  bottom. 


95 

MEMORANDA 


96 

MEMORANDA 


07 
MEMORANDA 


98 
MEMORANDA 


THE  AFTER  WORD. 


The  work  which  is  represented  by  the  pages  that 
have  preceded  this  one,  has  seemed  at  times  to  the 
members  of  the  Committees  in  charge  of  it,  to  be 
almost  stupendous.  It  is  certain  that  some  cf  them 
will  look  with  different  eyes  hereafter  on  all  books. 
Certainly  there  will  be  a  clearer  appreciation  of  some 
of  the  ingredients  that  are  put  into  the  publicalion  of 
a  book.  Whatever  may  be  the  things  that  go  into  the 
preparation  of  other  books,  besides  the  very  exacting 
mechanical  labor,  there  has  gone  into  this,  certainly, 
much  love  and  hope. 

It  is  natural  that  the  Epworth  League  should 
love  this  child  of  theirs.  It  is  the  product  of  sacrifice 
and  prayer.  To  those  to  whom  it  comes  a  welcome  is 
begged  and  indulgence  for  its  faults  is  prayed.  It 
goes  forth  sped  with  high  hopes  for  a  long  continued 
usefulness.  May  it  be  a  constant  source  of  aid  and 
delight.     Therefore  we  subscribe  ourselves: 

THE  EPWORTH  LEAGUE  OF  STILL  POND,  MARYLAND. 
Connected  with  Stilt.  Pond  M.  E.  Church. 

Mrs.  William  Medders. — President. 
Miss  Hope  Hackett.  —  ist  Vice  President. 
Mr.  Robert  D.  Moore. — 2nd  Vice  President. 
Mrs.  Charles  Walter.— 3rd  Vice  President. 
Miss  Mabel  Norris. — 4th  Vice  President. 
Miss  Anna  Bowers. — Secretary. 
Miss  Lucille  Parr. — Treasurer. 
Miss  Alta  Price. — Assistant  Treasurer. 
Miss  Edna  Wroth. — Cook  Book  Treasurer. 
Mrs.  Robert  D.  Moore. — Supt.  Junior  League 
Mrs.  Howard  Rasin. — Organist. 
Mrs.  F.  B.  Harper. — Assistant  Organist. 
Mrs.  A.  J.  Hackett.— Chorister. 


TABLE    OF    CONTENTS 


Preface 3 

Afterword 99 

Breads,  Cakes  and  Waffles 11-12 

Butters  and  Sauces 32-34 

Cake 49~56 

Candies 61-64 

Canning,  Preserving  and  Pickling 65-73 

Cheese 73 

Curing  Meats 74~76 

Dumplings 24 

Eggs .• 24-36 

Fish      I3_I4 

Frozen  Desserts 37_46 

Game 23 

Icings 56-57 

Meats 17-20 

Pies 46-48 

Salads 37-46 

Shell  Fish           I5_I7 

Small  Cakes 58-61 

Soups 11-12 

Table  of  Measures 76 

Vegetables      26-31 

NEW  RECIPES 

Beverages 77—78 

Bread,  Cakes,  Etc 78-81 

Candy      84-85 

Emergencies 92-93 

Feeding  the  Child 88-89 

Jams  and  Marmalades      85-86 

Sick  Diet 91 

Recipes  for  Sugarless  Days 82 

Salt  Hints 93 

Soups  and  Salads 83-84 

Pickles 87 

Vegetables      82 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  010  093  269  6  » 


