TX       " 

icsrs  ECONOMICAL 

WAR-TIME  COOK  BOOK 

Wheatless  Breads 

Victory  Breads  and  Rolls 

How  to  Use  Wheat  Substitutes 

How  to  Conserve  Sugar 

How  to  Save  Fats 

Salads,  Canning,  Etc.,  Etc. 


By       . 
JANET  McKENZIE  HILL 


50  cents  net 


George  Sully  &  Company 

NEW   YORK 


Aqisr 


Class. I 

Book,    M^r.'SlT' 

Copyright  ]^^ 


CQEXRIGHX  DEPOSm 


ECONOMICAL 
WAR-TIME  COOK  BOOK 

by 

JANET   McKENZIE   HILL 

Author  of  "Practical  Cooking  and   Serving,"  "Cooking  for  Two," 

"The  Up-to-Date  Waitress,"  "Salads,  Sandwiches  and  Chafing- 

Dish  Dainties,"  "Canning,  Preserving  and  Jelly  Making," 

"Book  of  Entrees,"  "American  Cook  Book,"  Etc. 

Editor  "American  Cookery" 


All  the  material  in  this  book  "is  in  strict  ac- 
cordance with  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the 
Food  Administration,  and  with  its  requests." 


George  Sully  and  Company 
New  York 


Copyright,  1918 

BY 

The  Boston  Cooking  School  Magazine  Co. 


JUL  II  1918 


J&Yit  IFort  fill  J^ttM 

SAMUEL  USHER 
BOSTON.   MASS. 

©Ci.A501122 


'V^-^ 


Economical  War -Time  Cook  Book 


SEVEN   COMMANDMENTS  FOR  WAR-TIME 

CONSERVATION 

PREPARED   AT  CORNELL  UNIVERSITY,  ITHACA,  N.  Y. 

1.  Set  aside  enough  money  to  buy  1  quart  of  milk  a  day  for  each 

child  and  |  quart  of  milk  a  day  for  each  grown  person. 

The  grown  person  may  use  some  cheese  in  place  of  all  milk; 

1 A  ounces  of  cheese  will  replace  |  quart  of  milk. 
If  there  is  not  enough  money  to  buy  this  amount  of  milk,  try 

to  buy  at  least  1  pint  a  day  for  each  child  and  |  pint  a 

day  for  each  grown  person. 
The  grown  person  may  use  skim  milk.     Half  of  the  daily 

quart  for  the  child  may  be  skim  milk,  if  necessary;  but  it 

is  not  best  to  feed  the  child  skim  milk. 
Children  suffer  more   from   lack  of  milk  than  do  grown 

persons. 

2.  Buy  2  to  3  ounces  of  some  fat  for  each  grown  person. 

Children  will  not  need  as  much  as  this  if  they  are  getting  a 

quart  of  whole  milk  a  day. 
The  best  fat  is  butter,  particularly  for  little  children. 

3.  If  money  is  scarce,  buy  only  enough  sugar  to  make  the  meals 

palatable. 

One  and  one-half  ounces,  or  about  3  level  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  honey,  molasses,  or  sirup  a  day  for  each  person  will 
do  this. 

Sugar  is  not  a  necessary  food;  too  much  money  spent  for 
sugar  is  likely  to  deprive  the  family  of  more  needed  foods. 

4.  Buy  for  each  day  some  potatoes  and  one  other  vegetable 

such  as  cabbage,  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  beets,  or  other 
available  fresh  vegetables. 

The  children  can  eat  daily  2  to  3  medium-sized  potatoes  and 
J  to  I  pound  of  one  of  the  other  vegetables. 


4  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

The  grown  persons  can  eat  daily  6  to  8  medium-sized 
potatoes  and  |  pound  or  more  of  the  other  vegetables. 

5.  Buy  only  as  much  wheat  and  wheat  products  as  the  Food. 

Admmistration  rulings  allow. 

The  rest  of  your  need  for  cereal  food  may  be  satisfied  by  such 
other  cereals  as  rolled  oats,  pinhead  oatmeal,  cornmeal, 
hominy,  barley,  rice,  and  buckwheat. 

If  possible,  buy  flours,  meals,  and  breakfast  foods  made  from 
the  entire  grain,  such  as  water-ground  cornmeal,  rolled 
oats  or  oatmeal,  cracked  wheat,  graham  and  whole-wheat 
flour.  They  have  greater  food  value  than  have  the  re- 
fined products. 

Less  bread  and  other  cereal  foods  are  needed,  if  some  dried 
beans  or  peas  are  eaten  and  if  potatoes  are  used  freely. 

One  serving  of  dried  beans  or  peas  or  one  medium-sized 
potato  may  replace  one  serving  of  cereal  or  one  slice  of 
bread. 

6.  If  some  money  still  remains,  buy  a  little  fruit  for  each  mem- 

ber of  your  family. 

Apples,  fresh  or  dried,  and  dried  prunes  and  raisins  are 
among  the  cheapest  fruits. 

7.  If  there  is  more  than  enough  money  for  this  necessary  food 

for  all  members  of  the  family,  spend  it  to  increase  the 
variety  and  flavor  of  the  meals. 

The  plain  but  safe  diet  resulting  from  following  rules  1  to  6 
may  be  made  more  palatable  by  spending  more  money. 

Meat  may  be  added  for  grown-up  members  of  the  family. 

Eggs  may  be  added  for  all  members  of  the  family. 

The  amount  of  money  to  be  spent  for  milk,  cream,  butter, 
cheese,  fruits,  vegetables,  fats,  and  sweets  may  be  in- 
creased. 

This  more  expensive  diet  may  be  more  pleasing  but  not  more 
wholesome  than  the  first  one  suggested. 

List  of  foods  necessary  to  use  sparingly: 

Meat.  Sugar. 

Wheat.  Fat. 


Wheat  Substitutes  and  How  to  Use  Them  5 

List  of  foods  from  which  we  may  select  as  freely  as  the  actual 
needs  of  the  family  demand  and  our  means  allow: 

Milk.  Poultry. 

Cheese.  Eggs. 

Butter  for  the  table.  Game. 

Vegetable  oils  for  cooking.  Vegetables. 

Fish.  Fruit. 

Oysters.  Cereals  other  than  wheat. 

All  sea  foods.  Dried  peas,  beans,  etc. 

SUBSTITUTES  FOR  WHEAT  AND  HOW  TO  USE  THEM 

Cornmeal  and  com  flour:  As  mush  with  milk,  also  fried; 
as  gnocchi  (with  cheese,  eggs);  as  plain  polenta  with  cheese; 
in  yeast  bread  and  rolls;  in  gingerbread,  pastry,  cream  puffs, 
eclairs,  small  cakes  and  cookies;  in  muffins,  baking-powder  bis- 
cuit, waffles,  spider  corn  cake,  southern  beaten  biscuit,  Virginia 
spoon  corn  bread;  baked  Indian  pudding;  custard  souffle;  Bos- 
ton brown  bread;   for  coating  fish  and  tripe  to  saute. 

Hominy:  As  breakfast  cereal;  hominy  balls,  fried,  eaten 
with  meat  or  chicken  sauce,  or  as  a  dessert  with  syrup;  Virginia 
spoon  corn  bread. 

Samp  (broken  kernels  of  corn) :  As  breakfast  cereal ;  in 
cream  sauce  with  scraped  onion  and  chopped  parsley;  in  cream 
sauce  with  cheese,  as  hearty  luncheon  or  supper  dish;  in  tomato 
or  chicken  sauce  with  cheese. 

Barley  flour:  In  bread,  rolls,  muffins,  pastry,  cake;  in  bread 
and  pastry,  can  be  used  in  larger  proportion  than  corn  flour,  but 
do  not  try  more  than  one-third  barley  to  two-thirds  wheat  in 
yeast  mixtures. 

Rice:  Plain  boiled  with  meat  sauce  or  milk;  with  curry 
sauce;  with  tomato,  broth  and  cheese,  flavored  with  onion, 
etc.;  rice  croquettes,  cheese  sauce;  sweet  rice  croquettes  for 
dessert;  plain  rice  croquettes  with  rich  pudding  sauce;  plain 
rice  pudding  with  milk  and  raisins;  baked  custard  rice  pudding; 
Delmonico  rice  pudding  with  meringue;  boiled  with  hard  sauce; 
Turkish  pilaf;  to  thicken  soup;  to  thicken  any  meat  stew; 
plain  boiled  with  boiled  fowl,  veal,  lamb,  pigeons,  etc.;  rizzoletti; 
griddle-cakes  and  muffins;  yeast  bread.  Rice  flour  is  used  in 
bread,  cake,  and  pastry. 

Oatmeal:  Breakfast  cereal;  in  yeast  bread  and  biscuit; 
in  baking-powder    biscuit,   muffins,   griddle -cakes,   scones;    in 


6  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

macaroons;  in  cookies;  in  Scotch  bannock;  to  thicken  soup; 
to  thicken  fish,  nut  or  bean  loaf.  Oatmeal  may  be  ground  into 
fine  flour  in  a  coffee  mill  or  with  the  nut  cutter  of  a  food  chopper. 
It  may  be  used  in  cake  or  pastry  as  well  as  in  bread. 

Buckwheat  flour:  In  griddle-cakes,  biscuit,  muffins,  cookies, 
bread. 

Potato  flour:  Has  by  bulk  twice  the  thickening  properties 
of  wheat  flour;  very  little  fat  in  composition;  use  in  sponge 
and  small  cakes;  to  thicken  soup  and  sauces. 

SUBSTITUTES   FOR   MEAT 

Milk,  cheese,  eggs,  fish  of  all  kinds,  dried  peas  and  beans, 
poultry,  game,  nuts. 

PERMISSIBLE   FATS 

Drippings  from  such  meat  as  is  cooked. 
Fat  from  poultry. 
Vegetable  oils. 

Nuts. 

SUBSTITUTES  FOR   SUGAR 

Molasses,  honey,  maple  sugar  and  syrup,  raisins,  figs,  dates, 
prunes;  bananas,  grapes,  pears,  peaches,  beets,  parsnips,  squash, 
sweet  potatoes,  etc.,  supply  considerable  sugar,  and  might  be 
used  to  partially  satisfy  a  desire  for  sweets.  Corn  syrup,  while 
having  practically  no  sweet  taste,  may  be  used  to  some  extent 
as  a  substitute  for  sugar. 

VICTORY  BREAD 

Of  all  the  grains,  wheat  contains  the  strong,  elastic  gluten 
in  the  best  proportion  for  loaves  of  light,  spong^^  yeast  bread; 
rye  also  contains  a  goodly  proportion  of  gluten,  and  will  make 
satisfactory  yeast  bread.  The  other  grains  must  be  combined 
with  wheat  when  the  lightness  of  the  loaf  is  secured  with  yeast. 
The  United  States  Food  Administration  allows  the  name  of 
"  Victory  Bread  "  to  be  applied  to  any  bread  containing  twenty 
per  cent  or  more  of  wheat  substitute.  Twenty-five  per  cent  of 
any  variety  of  substitute  flour  will  give  good  results,  and  often 
one-third  of  the  full  quantity  of  flour  may  be  a  substitute  flour, 
if  the  bread  is  to  be  eaten  within  a  day  or  two. 


Wheatless  Breakfast  Cereal  Dishes  7 

WHEAT   SUBSTITUTES  IN   QUICK  BREADS 

In  breads  made  with  baking  powder,  baked  as  soon  as  mixed, 
the  proportion  of  the  wheat  substitute  flours  may  be  materially 
increased.  While  many  are  at  their  best  when  made  on  the 
50-50  basis,  most  of  them  may  be  made  quite  successfully  with- 
out any  wheat  flour,  and  some  of  them,  no  matter  how  much 
wheat  flour  be  available,  are  always  made  without  it. 

WHEAT  SUBSTITUTES  IN  CAKE  AND   PASTRY 

Either  barley  or  fine  oat  flour  makes  good  pastry;  a  little 
rice  flour  with  the  barley  flour  is  thought  by  most  people  an  im- 
provement. Sponge  cake  may  be  made  with  most  any  variety 
of  flour;  potato  flour  gives  even  better  sponge  cake  than  wheat. 
In  recipes  calling  for  one  cup  of  wheat  flour,  use  half  a  cup  of 
potato  flour.  Probably  good  results  may  be  secured  with  any 
of  one's  favorite  cake  recipes,  if  rice  flour  be  substituted  for  one- 
third  of  the  wheat  flour  called  for;  the  other  two-thirds  of  wheat 
flour  'being  retained.  In  the  sponge  cake  the  half  cup  of 
potato  flour  is  all  the  flour  that  is  required. 

Barley  flour  works  well  in  layer  cakes  with  chocolate  and 
soda;  barley,  buckwheat  and  oat  flours  make  good  cookies  and 
ginger  cakes;  barley  and  corn  flour  good  cream  cakes  and 
eclairs,  though  not  as  puffy  as  when  made  of  wheat  flour. 

All  measurements  are  level.  Flour  is  sifted  before  measur- 
ing. 


WHEATLESS  BREAKFAST  CEREAL  DISHES 


CORNMEAL-AND-OATMEAL  MUSH 

Cornmeal  mush  and  oatmeal  are  good  only  when  well 
cooked.  Many  people  use  too  little  salt  and  cook  them  too 
short  a  time.  To  cook  cornmeal  mush  for  five  people,  use  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  cornmeal,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  five  or  six 
cups  of  water.  Bring  salted  water  to  a  boil.  Stir  in  the  corn- 
meal slowly.  Don't  let  it  lump.  Cook  it  at  least  thirty  min- 
utes. It  is  better  when  cooked  for  three  hours,  or  overnight. 
Use  a  double  boiler  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  or  a  fireless  cooker. 
Cooked  in  skim  milk  instead  of  water,  it  is  particularly  good. 


8  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

and  the  food  value  of  the  dish  is  nearly  doubled.  For  oatmeal, 
use  two  and  one-half  cups  of  rolled  oats,  two  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  five  or  six  cups  of  water.  Bring  the  water  to 
a  boil.  Stir  the  rolled  oats  slowly  into  the  boiling  water  and 
cook  for  one  hour,  or  overnight.  Eat  the  cereal  with  milk  or 
syrup  or  butter  or  butter  substitutes. 

CORNMEAL-AND-OATMEAL  MUSH  WITH  GRATED 
CHEESE 

(For  Adults) 

Prepare  the  mush  as  above;  just  before  serving  stir  in  from 
one  to  two  cups  of  grated  cheese,  and  sprinkle  cheese  over  the 
mush  after  it  is  in  the  serving  dishes. 

PLUM  PORRIDGE 

Sprinkle  a  cup  of  large  raisins  in  the  water  in  which  oatmeal 
is  to  be  cooked,  then  stir  in  the  oatmeal;  when  the  oatmeal  is 
cooked,  the  raisins  will  be  done.     No  sugar  is  needed  in  serving. 

OATMEAL  WITH  DATES 

Cover  half  a  pound  of  dates  with  boiling  water;  let  boil 
once,  then  skim  to  an  agate  plate,  set  in  the  oven  two  or  three 
minutes  to  dry,  then  cut  in  neat  lengthwise  quarters,  discarding 
the  seeds.  Serve  around  or  over  the  oatmeal  with  milk  from  the 
top  of  the  bottle. 


WHEATLESS   QUICK  BREADS 


RHODE  ISLAND  JOHNNYCAKE 

Into  one  cup  of  Rhode  Island  white  cornmeal  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  stir  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick  drop  bat- 
ter; let  stand  until  cooled  a  little,  then  stir  in  cold,  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  thick  pour  batter.  Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  on  a  hot 
griddle  and  bake  as  griddle-cakes.  Serve  with  butter  or  molasses. 
Yellow  cornmeal  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

CORNMEAL  STICKS 

The  above  batter  may  be  baked  in  shallow  bread-stick  pans. 
Serve  with  soup,  salad,  or  cheese. 


Wheatless  Quick  Breads  9 

OATMEAL  BANNOCK 

2^  cups  oatmeal  1  to  2  tablespoonfuls  fat 

5  teaspoonful  salt  §  cup  lukewarm  water 

Mix  the  oatmeal  and  salt.  Melt  the  fat  in  the  water; 
add  to  the  oatmeal  while  mixing  it  in  with  a  knife.  More  water 
may  be  needed  to  form  a  paste  that  may  be  worked  on  the 
board.  Use  flour  or  dry  oatmeal  while  kneading.  Knead  the 
paste  several  minutes;  divide  in  four  pieces;  knead  each  piece, 
and  with  rolling-pin  roll  into  a  round  piece  about  one-fourth 
inch  thick.  Bake  on  a  greased  tin,  in  a  moderate  oven,  half 
an  hour.  Each  cake  will  be  the  size  of  a  small  plate.  Reheat 
in  the  oven  or  toast  before  eating.     They  are  also  good  cold. 

SCOTCH  FANCIES  (Oatmeal  Crackers) 

2  cups  rolled  oats  1|  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  or  vegetable  oil 

3  tablespoonfuls  milk  \  teaspoonful  soda 
J  cup  molasses  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Grind  the  oats  and  mix  with  the  other  materials.  Roll  into 
a  thin  sheet  and  cut  in  squares.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

BARLEY  POPOVERS 

2  eggs  I  teaspoonful  salt 
1  cup  barley  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoonful  sugar 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  bowl ;  beat  with  a  Dover  egg 
beater  until  very  smooth.  Bake  in  a  hot,  iron  muffin  pan,  well 
greased,  about  40  minutes.  One-fourth  cup  of  rice  flour  may 
replace  the  same  quantity  of  barley  flour. 

CORNSTICKS 

1  cup  cornmeal  ^  cup  hot,  cooked  hominy 

f  cup  rye,  barley,  or  oat  flour  \  cup  Crisco  or  other  vegetable  oil 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  egg,  beaten  light 
3  teaspoonful  salt  1  cup  milk 

Sift  together  the  meal,  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt. 
Melt  the  Crisco  in  the  hominy;  add  the  milk  with  the  egg,  and 
stir  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  well-greased  bread-stick 
pans  about  20  minutes. 


10  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

SPONGE   CORNMEAL  CAKE 

1  tablespoonful  butter  substitute  1  cup  milk 

\  cup  sugar  1  cup  cornmeal 

1  egg  beaten  light  1  cup  wheat,  rye,  or  barley  flour 
\  cup  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

5  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  one-fourth  cup  sugar  into  the  creamed  butter,  and 
one-fourth  cup  sugar  into  the  egg,  then  beat  the  two  together. 
Add  the  milk,  alternately  with  the  flour  and  other  dry  ingredi- 
ents. Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  about  20  minutes.  This  is  par- 
ticularly good  when  made  with  bolted  cornmeal  or  corn  flour. 

CREAM   JOHNNYCAKE 

2  cups  cornmeal  2  eggs,  beaten  light 
I  cup  wheat  or  barley  flour  1  cup  sour  cream 

I  teaspoonful  salt  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoonful  soda 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  the  liquid  ingredients 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  pan  of  such  size  as  to  have  the 
mixture  half  an  inch  deep  in  the  pan.  Serve  hot.  This  cuts 
into  16  pieces,  3  by  2>\  inches  each.     The  recipe  is  easily  halved. 

HOMINY   OR  RICE   PUFFS 

1  cup  boiled  hominy  or  1  tablespoonful  melted  fat 

1  cup  boiled  rice  2  egg-yolks,  beaten  thick 

\  teaspoon  salt  2  egg-whites,  beaten  very  light 

To  the  cooked  ingredients  (preferably  hot)  add  the  salt, 
fat,  and  yolks,  and  fold  in  the  whites.  Drop  a  tablespoonful  in 
a  place  on  a  greased  baking  pan;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

VIRGINIA   SPOON  CORN  BREAD 

(To  serve  ten) 

5  cup  breakfast  hominy  3  eggs 

1  quart  boiling  water  1  cup  milk 

4  tablespoonfuls  shortening  2  cups  cornmeal 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt  U  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Add  the  salt  to  the  water;  while  directly  over  the  fire  stir 
in  the  hominy;  let  boil  five  minutes,  then  let  cook  over  boiling 
water  (double  boiler)  twenty  minutes;  add  the  shortening,  the 
eggs,  beaten  and  mixed  with  the  milk,  and  lastly  sift  in  the  corn- 
meal and  baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  well- 
greased  baking  dish  about  45  minutes.  Serve  with  a  spoon  from 
the  dish. 


Wheatless  Quick  Breads  11 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

1  cup  cornmeal  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cup  rye  meal  2  teaspoonfuls  soda 

1  cup  barley  flour  or  |  cup  molasses 

1  cup  whole  wheat  flour  2  cups  thick  sour  milk 

Sift  together  all  the  dry  ingredients ;  look  over  and  add  the 
bran  left  in  the  sieve;  add  the  molasses  and  milk  and  stir  to  a 
dough;  steam  3  hours  in  a  greased  mold.  The  mold  should  hold 
two  quarts.  Two-pound  size  cocoa  cans  or  3  baking  powder 
cans  may  be  used. 

BARLEY-AND-OAT  BREAD 

1  cup  oat  flour  (fine  flour,  not  meal)        4  tablespoonfuls  vegetable  oil 

2  cups  barley  flour  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
1  teaspoonful  salt  2  eggs,  beaten  light 

6  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cup  milk 

Mix  and  sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  the 
eggs,  oil,  and  milk,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  greased 
bread  pan.     Bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BAKING-POWDER  LOAF  BREAD 

I5  cups  barley  flour  |  cup  sugar 

1  cup  rye  meal  4  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

^  cup  rice  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

6  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Pass  together  all  the  dry  ingredients  through  a  sieve  into  a 
bowl,  and  work  in  the  shortening  with  two  knives.  Add  the 
milk  to  the  egg  and  use  in  mixing  the  dry  ingredients  to  a  dough. 
Turn  into  a  greased  bread  pan.  Let  stand  15  minutes.  Bake 
45  minutes.  One  cup  of  oat  flour  or  very  fine  meal  may  replace 
the  rye  meal. 

CORNMEAL,  BARLEY-AND-RICE  FLOUR  BREAKFAST 

CAKE 

I  cup  shortening  1^  cups  barley  flour 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  rice  flour 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  1  cup  cornmeal 

5  cup  milk  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  shortening;  beat  half  the  sugar  into  the  shorten- 
ing and  half  into  the  eggs,  and  beat  the  two  mixtures  together. 


12  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  into  a  bowl  together;  add  to  the  first 
mixture,  alternately,  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  a  dripping  pan. 
Good  reheated. 

GENERAL  RULE  FOR  MUFFINS 

1  cup  meal  (any  kind)  5  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cup  flour  (any  kind)  1  egg  beaten  light 

2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  cup  milk  (about) 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  (Varies  with  the  kind  of  flour 
2  tablespoonfuls  melted  shortening          or  meal) 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  into  a  bowl ;  add  the  egg,  milk,  and 
shortening,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  hot,  well-greased, 
iron  muffin  pan  about  25  minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT   MUFFINS 

1  cup  buckwheat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  cup  cornmeal  1  cup  milk 

I  teaspoonful  salt  1  tablespoonful  melted  shortening 

5  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Pass  all  the  dry  ingredients  through  the  sieve  together. 
Add  the  liquid  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a 
hot,  well-greased,  iron  muffin  pan  about  25  minutes. 

HOMINY-AND-BARLEY  MUFFINS 

1  cup  cooked  hominy  1  egg,  beaten  light 
f  cup  hot  milk              v  f  cup  barley  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  shortening  \  cup  corn  flour 

1  teaspoonful  salt  \  cup  cornmeal 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

One  half  a  cup  of  hominy  and  two  cups  of  boiling  water 
will  make  enough  hominy  to  use  twice.  Cook  an  hour  or  longer. 
The  hominy  may  be  hot  or  cold;  mix  the  milk  through  it  and 
make  smooth;  add  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  about  25  min- 
utes. The  cornmeal  may  be  omitted.  The  mulilins  are  very 
delicate  and  soft.     Cooked  rice  may  replace  the  hominy. 

OAT-FLOUR  MUFFINS 

2  cups  oat  flour  1  tablespoonful  melted  fat 

5  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1|  cups  milk 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Mix  one-half  of  the  flour  and  salt  with  the  milk  and  fat 
and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  full  of  bubbles.     Then  add 


Wheatless  Quick  Breads  13 

to  this  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  the  baking  powder  sifted  together. 
Beat  well.  Let  mixture  stand  three  or  four  minutes  to  allow 
the  batter  to  thicken.  If  it  becomes  too  stiff,  add  a  little  more 
liquid.  Then  pour  into  hot,  greased  muffin  pans  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  for  about  20  minutes. 

RYE-MEAL-AND-OAT-FLOUR  MUFFINS 

1  cup  rye  meal  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cup  oat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

3  tablespoonfuis  sugar  1  cup  milk  (about) 

5  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuis  melted  shortening 

Mix  and  bake  according  to  the  general  rule  for  muffins. 

CORNMEAL-AND-BARLEY   MUFFINS 

f  cup  cornmeal  §  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cup  barley  flour  1  egg  and  1  yolk 

i  cup  wheat  flour  U  cups  sweet  milk 

3  cup  sugar  3  tablespoonfuis  melted  shortening 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Pass  all  the  dry  ingredients  through  the  sieve  together. 
Add  the  eggs,  beaten  and  mixed  with  the  milk,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly; beat  in  the  shortening;  bake  in  a  hot,  well-greased, 
iron  muffin  pan,  or  in  a  sheet  in  a  biscuit  pan,  about  25  minutes. 
The  extra  egg-yolk  or  all  of  the  egg  may  be  omitted.  About 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  thick,  sour  milk  may  replace  the  sweet 
milk  by  using  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  in  place  of  the  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  given  above. 

BARLEY-MEAL   MUFFINS 

1  cup  barley  meal  \  cup  sugar 

1  cup  whole  wheat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  f  tablespoonful  melted  shortening 

^  teaspoonful  salt  1^  cups  milk 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  milk  and  egg  and 
mix  thoroughly;  beat  in  the  shortening.  Bake  in  a  hot,  well- 
greased  mufffn  pan  about  25  minutes. 

BARLEY  MUFFINS 

2  tablespoonfuis  shortening  U  cups  milk  (nearly) 

\  cup  sugar  1  cup  sifted  white  flour 

i  teaspoonful  salt  1  cup  sifted  barley  flour 

1  egg,  beaten  light  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 


14  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Cream  the  shortening,  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  salt, 
add  the  egg,  the  milk,  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  pow- 
der. Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  hot,  well-oiled  muffin  pan, 
about  25  minutes. 

BRAN   MUFFINS 

(About  18  Muffins) 

I  cup  corn  flour  1  cup  bran 

3  cup  rye  meal  1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  cup  wheat  flour  5  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk 

f  teaspoonful  salt  1  j  cups  sweet  milk 

I  teaspoonful  soda  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  shortening 

2\  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Stir  together  the  first  six  ingredients  and  add  the  bran. 
Add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix.  Bake  in  a  hot,  well-greased, 
iron  muffin  pan  or  in  biscuit  pan,  about  25  minutes. 

CORNMEAL   BREAKFAST   CAKE 

I  cup  shortening  1  cup  buckwheat,  rye,  or  barley  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  oat  flour 
5  cup  corn  syrup  1  cup  cornmeal 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  6  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  h  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  shortening,  beat  in  the  sugar,  corn  syrup,  and 
eggs,  then  alternately  add  the  milk  and  the  dry  ingredients 
sifted  together.     Bake  in  a  dripping  pan  about   25   minutes. 

This  may  also  be  baked  in  an  iron  muffin  pan.  It  makes 
fifteen  muffins.     Is  good  reheated. 

SPIDER   CORNCAKE 

f  cup  cornmeal  1  egg 

\  cup  wheat  flour  3  cup  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  f  cup  thick  sour  milk 

2  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

3  teaspoonful  soda  3  cup  sweet  milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  into  a  mixing  bowl,  beat  the  egg, 
add  the  first  half-cup  of  sweet  milk  and  the  sour  milk  and  stir 
into  the  dry  ingredients.  Melt  the  shortening  in  the  spider  (or 
an  agate  pie  plate),  turn  to  coat  with  the  fat;  pour  in  the  batter, 
and  the  last  half-cup  of  milk.  Do  not  stir  it  in.  Bake  about 
25  minutes.  To  serve  cut  as  a  pie.  This  makes  a  moist  cake 
with  a  line  of  custard  through  it. 


Wheadess  Quick  Breads  15 

MIDDLING  MUFFINS 

4  cups  white  middlings  1  cup  sour  milk 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk  or  water 

f  teaspoonful  soda  3  tablespoonfuls  shortening,  melted 

1  teaspoonful  salt  and  added  last 

2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Bake  about  20  minutes  in  muffin  pans.  This  rule  makes 
eighteen  large  muffins.  Two  cups  of  cornmeal  and  two  cups  of 
middlings  may  be  used  instead  of  all  middlings. 

POTATO  BISCUIT 

\\  cups  wheat,  rye,  or  barley  flour       |  cup  cooked  potato,  riced 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  3  tablespoonfuls  shortening 
I  teaspoonful  salt  Milk  or  water  for  dough 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  potato,  cut  the 
shortening  in  with  two  knives,  add  liquid  gradually,  and  mix  to 
a  dough.  Turn  on  a  floured  board,  turn  to  coat  with  flour, 
knead  slightly;  pat  and  roll  into  a  sheet;  cut  into  rounds; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  minutes. 

BARLEY-AND-RICE  FLOUR  BISCUIT 

I5  cups  barley  flour  5  teaspoonful  salt 

§  cup  rice  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  f  cup  milk  (about) 

Mix  and  bake  as  potato  biscuit. 

OAT-FLOUR  AND  RICE-FLOUR  BISCUIT 

Substitute  oat  flour  for  barley  flour,  and  proceed  as  above. 

PLAIN  RICE  GRIDDLE-CAKES 

1  cup  hot  boiled  rice,  grains  distinct  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  tablespoonful  melted  shortening  5  teaspoonful  salt 

\  cup  wheat  flour  (barley  flour  may  be  used)  1  egg,  beaten  light 

z  cup  corn  or  rice  flour  1  cup  milk 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  into  the  rice,  short- 
ening, egg,  and  milk.     Mix  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

BUCKWHEAT  GRIDDLE-CAKES 

1  cup  buckwheat  flour  1  cup  cold  water 

\  teaspoonful  salt  \  cup  sweet  milk 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 


16  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together.  When  the  griddle  is  hot, 
and  you  are  ready  to  bake  the  cakes,  add  all  the  liquid  and  at 
once  stir  to  a  smooth  batter.  Bake  at  once  on  a  hot,  well-oiled 
griddle.     When  full  of  bubbles,  turn,  to  brown  the  upper  side. 

DELICATE   CORNMEAL   GRIDDLE-CAKES 

\  cup  cornmeal  f  cup  cold  milk 

2  teaspoonful  salt  2  egg-yolks 

h  cup  cold  water  1  cup  barley  flour 

11  cups  boiling  water  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  tablespoonful  shortening  2  egg-whites,  beaten  very  light 

Stir  the  cornmeal  with  the  salt  and  cold  water,  then  stir 
Into  the  water,  boiling  directly  over  the  fire;  continue  to  stir 
and  cook  until  the  mixture  thickens;  cover  and  let  cook  over 
boiling  water  20  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  the  short- 
ening, the  cold  milk,  the  yolks,  the  flour  sifted  again  with  the 
baking  powder,  and  lastly  the  egg-whites.  Bake  at  once  by 
tablespoonfuls  on  a  hot  griddle.  The  recipe  makes  between 
thirty  and  forty  small  cakes. 

POLENTA  DABS 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  tablespoonful  butter  substitute 
I  teaspoonful  salt                                1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  cup  cornmeal  3  tablespoonfuls  cream 

Add  the  salt  to  the  boiling  water  and  gradually  stir  in  the 
cornmeal;  let  cook  direstly  over  the  fire  five  or  six  minutes, 
stirring  constantly,  then  cover  and  let  cook  over  boiling  water 
about  an  hour;  add  the  other  ingredients;  drop  from  a  spoon 
on  a  well-greased  baking  sheet;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BARLEY   BISCUIT 

1  cup  sifted  barley  flour  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cup  sifted  white  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

\  teaspoonful  salt  1  scant  cup  milk  or  water. 

Same  quantity  of  corn  or  rye  flour  may  be  substituted  for 
the  barley  flour. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  twice;  work  in  the  short- 
ening; gradually  add  the  liquid  and  mix  with  a  knife  to  a  soft 
dough.  Turn  upon  a  lightly-floured  board,  roll  with  a  knife  to 
coat  with  flour,  then  knead  slightly.  Roll  into  a  sheet  about 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  rounds  and  set  in  a  shallow 
baking  pan.     Bake  about  15  minutes. 


Victory  Breads  17 


VICTORY  BREADS 

When  less  than  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  is  given  in  a 
recipe,  the  bread  is  to  be  mixed  at  night. 

In  general,  most  housekeepers  prefer  to  mix  bread  at  night, 
using  a  small  quantity  of  yeast.  In  this  way  the  bread  is  baked 
and  out  of  the  way  in  the  early  morning  hours.  A  coal  fire  is 
often  regulated  more  easily  in  the  morning  and  this  is  an  object 
in  baking.  However,  many  times,  better  results  are  secured 
when  making  yeast  bread  with  cereals  of  low,  or  weak,  gluten 
content,  if  a  sponge  be  made  in  the  morning  with  wheat  flour, 
and  then,  when  this  is  fully  risen,  adding  the  weaker  flour  with 
such  other  quantity  of  wheat  flour  as  is  required.  Good  bread 
may  be  made  of  first  quality  rye  flour  without  the  admixture  of 
any  wheat,  but  for  less  choice  products  a  little  wheat  flour  is 
advisable  when  conditions  are  favorable  for  its  use. 

RYE  BREAD  WITH  SPONGE 

(2  Loaves) 

2  cups  scalded  milk,  or  half  milk,       2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  or  molasses 

half  water  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  shortening 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  teaspoonful  salt 

5  cup  lukewarm  water  3|  (about)  cups  rye  flour 

3  cups  (nearly)  wheat  flour 

Make  a  sponge  of  the  first  four  ingredients;  when  light  add 
the  others ;  knead  until  smooth  and  elastic ;  let  stand  to  become 
light;  shape  into  two  loaves;  when  again  light  bake  nearly  one 
hour. 

OTHER  VICTORY  BREAD   WITH   SPONGE 

Same  as  recipe  for  rye  bread  except  add  two  cups  of  the 
substitute  flour  to  the  sponge  and  finish  with  the  wheat  flour 
necessary  to  make  a  dough  that  may  be  kneaded. 

WHITE   OATMEAL  BREAD 

1|  cups  rolled  oats  1  tablespoonful  shortening 

2  cups  scalded  milk  or  1  cup  milk  5  cake  com.pressed  yeast 

and  1  cup  water  §  cup  lukewarm  water 

U  teaspoonfuls  salt  4^  cups  wheat  f^oiir  (about) 

1  tablespoonful  sugar 


18  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Pour  the  hot  Hquid  over  the  oats,  add  the  salt,  sugar,  and 
shortening.  When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  mixed  with  the 
half  cup  of  liquid  and  mix  thoroughly.  Stir  in  the  flour.  Knead 
until  smooth  and  elastic,  cover  and  set  aside  overnight.  Shape 
into  two  loaves.     When  again  light  bake  50  to  60  minutes, 

ONE  LOAF  WAR  BREAD 

§  cup  cornmeal  I  cake  compressed  yeast,  mixed  with 

1  cup  boiling  water  or  scalded  milk  \  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoonful  shortening  1  cup  rye  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses  2  cups  wheat  flour  (about) 
I  teaspoonful  salt 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  cornmeal  and  add  the 
shortening,  molasses,  and  salt.  When  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast 
and  flour.  Mix,  knead  until  smooth,  and  let  rise  until  doubled 
in  bulk.  Shape  and  set  in  a  greased  pan  to  rise.  Bake  50  to  60 
minutes. 

RICE   BREAD 
(3  Loaves) 

I  cup  rice  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

4  cups  hot  liquid  (part  milk,  part  water)  ^  cup  compressed  yeast 

1  teaspoonful  salt  h  cup  lukewarm  water 

3  tablespoonfuls  shortening  65  cups  bread  (wheat)  flour  (about) 

Put  the  rice  over  a  quick  fire  in  about  a  quart  of  cold  water; 
stir  constantly  while  heating  to  the  boiling  point;  let  boil  three 
minutes,  drain  in  a  sieve,  rinsing  meanwhile  with  cold  water. 
Return  to  the  fire  with  the  hot  liquid  and  salt  and  let  cook  until 
the  rice  is  done;  press  through  a  ricer,  add  the  shortening  and 
sugar,  and,  when  cooled  to  lukewarm,  the  yeast  mixed  with  the 
water,  and  the  flour.  Knead  and  set  aside  out  of  draughts, 
overnight.  Shape  for  two  brick-loaf  pans.  When  again  light 
bake  about  50  minutes. 

ONE  LOAF   RICE-FLOUR  BREAD 

1  cup  scalded  milk  \  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  tablespoonful  shortening  \  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  f  cup  rice  flour 

I  teaspoonful  salt  2\  cups  wheat  flour  (nearly)  or  I3  cups 

wheat  flour  and  1  cup  barley  flour 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner.  Let  stand  over  night.  Shape, 
and  when  again  light  bake  one  hour.  To  make  in  the  morning 
use  one  cake  compressed  yeast. 


Victory  Breads  19 

ONE  LOAF  RICE  BREAD 

1  cup  scalded  milk  i  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  tablespoonful  shortening  \  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  1  cup  rice  flour 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  cups  wheat  flour 

OAT-FLOUR  YEAST  BREAD 

(50  per  cent  oat  flour  —  50  per  cent  wheat) 

2  cups  liquid  I  yeast  cake 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt  |  cup  lukewarm  water 
1  tablespoonful  sugar                               3  cups  wheat  flour 

3  cups  oat  flour 

Bring  liquid  to  boiling  point.  (May  use  one-half  skim 
milk,  one-half  water  or  potato  water.)  Add  salt  and  sugar; 
add  oat  flour  gradually  to  prevent  lumping.  Beat  thoroughly. 
When  lukewarm  add  the  dissolved  yeast  and  enough  wheat  flour 
to  make  a  stiff,  dry  dough.  Knead  and  set  to  rise  until  double 
in  bulk.  Then  cut  down  and  reshape.  Let  rise  and  then  bake 
in  hot  oven. 

POTATO   BREAD  (1  Loaf) 
(Liberty  Bread  Shop) 

1  cup  mashed  potato  §  cup  milk,  scalded 

1  tablespoonful  shortening  j  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  lukewarm  water 
f  teaspoonful  salt  2  cups  wheat  flour  (about) 

To  the  potato  add  the  shortening,  sugar,  salt,  and  milk. 
When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  mixed  with  the  water  and  the 
flour.  Mix  very  stifif  with  flour,  as  the  dough  softens  on  rising. 
Let  rise  until  it  doubles  its  bulk.  Shape  for  the  pan  and  when 
again  light  bake  about  50  minutes. 

TWO  LOAVES  RYE  BREAD 

2  cups  scalded  milk  or  part  water         |  cake  compressed  yeast 
I  tablespoonful  shortening  |  cup  lukewarm  water 

i  tablespoonful  molasses  or  sugar         4  cups  rye  flour,  wheat  flour  for 
1  ^  teaspoonf uls  salt  dough  that  may  be  kneaded 

To  the  hot  liquid  add  the  shortening,  molasses,  and  salt. 
When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  mixed  with  the  water  and  the 
flour;  knead  thoroughly.  Set  aside  out  of  draughts  to  double 
in  bulk.  Shape  into  two  loaves.  When  again  doubled  in  bulk, 
bake  50  to  60  minutes. 


20  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

BREAD-CRUST   BREAD 

2  cups  bread  crusts  §  cup  molasses 

1  cup  scalded  milk  §  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  cups  boiling  water  |  cup  lukewarm  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  shortening         15  cups  barley,  graham,  or  oatmeal  flour 
1  teaspoonful  salt  5^  cups  wheat  flour 

The  bread  crusts  and  crumbs  must  be  packed  solid  for 
measuring.  Over  the  crusts,  etc.,  pour  the  milk  and  water,  let 
stand,  covered,  until  softened;  then  press  through  a  sieve  with 
a  wooden  pestle;  add  the  shortening,  salt,  molasses,  yeast  mixed 
with  the  lukewarm  water  and  the  flour,  and  mix  to  a  stiff  dough. 
The  dough  must  be  mixed  as  stiff  as  possible,  as  it  softens  on 
rising.  When  doubled  in  bulk,  shape  for  two  brick-loaf  pans. 
When  again  light  bake  1  hour. 

QUICK  RYE-MEAL  ROLLS 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

\  cup  shortening  |  cup  lukewarm  water 

-J  teaspoonful  salt  \  cup  rye  meal 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  Wheat  flour  for  soft  dough 

Add  the  shortening,  salt,  and  sugar  to  the  milk.  When 
lukewarm  add  the  yeast  mixed  with  the  water,  the  rye  meal  and 
as  much  wheat  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon.  Cover 
and  set  aside  to  become  light.  When  the  dough  has  doubled 
in  bulk,  rub  the  tips  of  the  fingers  with  fat,  and  shape  the  dough 
into  twenty-four  balls.  Set  these  on  a  floured  board,  cover 
close,  and  when  light  and  puffy  roll  under  the  fingers  into  finger 
shapes,  and  set  into  suitable  pans.  When  again  light  and  puffy, 
bake  about  20  minutes. 

QUICK  POTATO  ROLLS 

Boil  pared  potatoes  in  boiling  water;  press  the  potato 
through  a  ricer  into  the  water.  To  one  cup  of  this  potato  and 
water  add  half  a  cup  of  scalded  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
shortening,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  when  lukewarm  stir  in  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  mixed 
through  one-fourth  a  cup  of  lukewarm  milk,  half  a  cup  of  corn 
flour  and  wheat  flour  for  a  soft  dough  (about  two  and  a  half 
cups).  Cut  the  dough  through  and  through  and  work  it  into 
a  compact  shape.  Cover  and  let  double  in  bulk.  With  greased 
finger-tips  shape  into  smooth  balls;  cover  and  let  stand  to  be- 
come light.  Shape  for  finger  pans.  When  again  light  bake 
about  20  minutes. 


Victory  Breads  21 

CORNMEAL  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

1  cup  scalded  milk  5  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

J  cup  lukewarm  water  f  cup  white  corn  flour  (yellow  flour  or 

1 J  cups  wheat  flour  (about)  meal  may  be  used) 

i  cup  shortening  Wheat  flour  for  dough  (about  1  cup) 

Cool  the  milk  to  lukewarm;  add  the  yeast  softened  in  the 
water  and  the  first  measure  of  flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  cover 
and  set  aside  to  become  light.  Add  the  other  ingredients  and 
mix  to  a  dough.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Wash  the 
mixing  bowl  and  rub  it  over  with  fat;  put  in  the  dough,  cover 
and  set  aside  to  become  doubled  in  bulk.  Without  disturbing 
the  dough,  turn  it  upside  down  on  a  board  lightly  dredged  with 
fiour  and  roll  to  a  sheet  half  an  inch  in  thickness;  cut  into 
rounds;  turn  each  round  and  with  a  knife  score  it  lightly  across 
the  center,  brush  with  fat  and  fold  at  the  scoring.  Set  close 
together  in  a  baking  pan.  When  again  light  bake  about  25 
minutes. 

BARLEY  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

Same  as  above  save  use  one  cup  and  a  half  of  barley  flour 
in  place  of  the  cornmeal,  then  finish  with  wheat  flour  as  needed. 

BRAN  BREAD   STICKS 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

3  tablespoonfuls  shortening  j  cup  lukewarm  water 

I  teaspoonful  salt  If  cups  bran  (wheat  or  rye) 

1  tablespoonful  molasses  Wheat  flour  for  soft  dough 

To  the  hot  milk  add  the  shortening,  salt,  and  molasses; 
when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  mixed  with  the  lukewarm  water, 
the  bran  and  the  flour.  The  dough  should  not  be  mixed  stiff 
enough  to  knead.  Mix,  cut,  and  turn  the  dough  over  and  over 
with  a  spoon  or  knife;  cover  and  set  aside  to  become  light. 
When  the  dough  has  doubled  in  bulk,  with  buttered  fingers  pull 
off"  bits  of  the  dough  and  work  into  smooth  balls.  Set  the  balls 
on  a  floured  board,  cover,  and  let  stand  until  very  light;  roll  the 
balls,  one  by  one,  under  the  fingers  to  lengthen  them  to  fit  bread- 
stick  pans.  When  again  very  light  bake  about  15  minutes. 
Brush  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  return 
to  the  oven  a  moment  to  set  the  glaze. 


22  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

DISHES   RICH  IN  PROTEIN 


To  be  used  as  Meat  Substitutes  or  to  extend  and  enhance  a 
little  Meat  Flavor 


CLARIFYING  FAT  FROM   WATER  IN   WHICH   CORNED 
OR   FRESH   BEEF   OR   CHICKEN   WAS   BOILED 

Skim  the  fat  from  the  broth.  Set  the  fat  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire;  let  melt  and  cook  very  slowly  until  all  the 
water  has  evaporated  (until  the  fat  is  still,  no  boiling  discern- 
able),  then  strain  through  a  cheesecloth.  When  cold  it  is  ready 
for  use.     Such  fat  may  be  used  for  pastry,  biscuits,  etc. 

A  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  MEAT 

When  making  cornmeal  mush  add,  ten  minutes  before  re- 
moval from  fire,  a  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  or  peanuts  and  two 
eggs;  when  beaten  smooth  turn  into  molds,  and  when  cold 
slice  and  fry,  preferably  in  bacon  fat, 

SCALLOPED  RICE  AND   CHEESE 

2  cups  hot  boiled  rice  If  cups  milk 

3  tablespoonf  uls  butter  substitute  1  to  2  cups  grated  cheese 
3  tablespoonfuls  flour  ^  cup  cracker  crumbs 

5  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  fat 

1  teaspoonful  paprika 

When  the  rice  is  done,  melt  the  fat;  in  it  cook  the  flour, 
salt,  and  paprika;  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  stir  in 
the  cheese.  Set  the  rice  and  cheese  mixture  in  a  greased  bak- 
ing dish  in  alternate  layers.  Mix  the  cracker  crumbs  with  the 
melted  fat  and  spread  over  the  top.  Bake  until  the  crumbs 
are  browned. 

BALTIMORE  SAMP  AU  GRATIN 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  Ij  cups  cooked  samp 

1  tablespoonful  corn  flour  §  to  1  whole  cup  grated  cheese 

I  teaspoonful  salt  \  cup  cracker  crumbs 

\  teaspoonful  paprika  \  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cup  milk  1|  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  corn  flour,  salt,  and  paprika; 
add  the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  samp  and  cheese, 
mix  and  turn  into  a  Criscoed  baking  dish.     Mix  the  crumbs 


Dishes  Rich  in  Protein  23 

with  the  salt  and  melted  Crisco,  and  spread  over  the  samp. 
Bake  until  the  crumbs  are  browned.  Baltimore  samp  is  coarse, 
broken  white  corn.  It  is  good  as  a  breakfast  cereal  with  syrup  or 
molasses  and  milk.  To  cook,  rinse  a  cupful  in  boiling  water, 
drain  on  a  sieve  and  set  to  cook  in  boiling  water;  boil  rapidly 
ten  minutes,  then  draw  to  a  cooler  place  to  cook  at  a  gentle 
simmer  all  day.  Add  boiling  water  as  needed.  It  may  be 
cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker.  Set  aside  in  the  refrigerator  to  use 
as  required.     It  resembles  hulled  corn  without  the  flavor  of  lye. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

2  slices  fat  salt  pork  1  can  corn 

1  onion,  sliced  1^  teaspoonfuls  salt 

3  cups  boiling  water  ^  teaspoonful  black  pepper 
I5  cups  sliced  raw  potatoes                   |  cup  hot  milk 

Cut  the  pork  in  tiny  bits,  let  cook  slowly  until  the  fat  is 
withdrawn;  add  the  onion,  and  let  cook,  stirring  often  until 
yellowed  and  softened;  add  the  boiling  water  and  let  simmer 
ten  minutes.  Parboil  the  potatoes  five  minutes,  then  drain; 
strain  over  them  the  water  from  the  pork  and  onion,  pressing  out 
all  the  liquid  possible.  Let  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  tender, 
add  the  corn,  seasonings,  and  when  again  boiling,  the  milk. 

SUCCOTASH 

1  cup  dried  Lima  beans  1  can  corn 

1  teaspoonful  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  butter  substitute 

5  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

Soak  the  beans  over  night  in  cold  water;  drain,  rinse  in 
cold  water,  drain  again,  and  set  to  cook  in  water  to  cover;  let 
cook,  covered,  at  a  quiet  simmer  two  or  three  hours  or  until 
tender,  and  the  water  is  reduced ;  replenish  with  boiling  water  as 
needed  during  the  cooking.  Add  the  seasoning  and  corn,  and 
when  hot,  the  fat.     Serve  at  once. 

DRIED  LIMA  BEANS,  CREOLE  STYLE 

1  cup  dried  Lima  beans  |  cup  tomato  puree 

§  a  green  pepper  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter  substitute  1  teaspoonful  grated  horse-radish 
(chicken  or  bacon  fat) 

Soak  the  beans  over  night;  wash  and  set  to  cook  in  plenty 
of  cold  water.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point,  then  let  simmer  three 
hours,  or  until  tender.     Replenish  with  boiling  water  as  needed, 


24  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

but  let  the  water  dry  out  at  the  last.  Cut  the  pepper  in  shreds, 
let  cook  in  the  hot  fat  until  softened ;  add  to  the  beans  with  the 
tomato,  salt,  and  horse-radish;  heat  to  the  boiling  point  and 
serve. 

POLENTA  WITH   SAUSAGE 

2  cups  boiling  water  3  sausages 

^  teaspoonful  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  butter  substitute 

J  cup  cornmeal  \  cup  or  more  grated  cheese 

Have  the  water  boiling  rapidly;  add  the  salt,  and  gradually 
stir  in  the  cornmeal;  keep  the  mixture  boiling  all  the  time  the 
meal  is  being  added.  If  the  mush  seems  too  thin,  add  a  little 
more  meal.  Let  cook  in  a  double  boiler  an  hour  or  longer. 
Turn  into  a  greased  dish  to  make  a  layer  half  an  inch  thick. 
When  cold  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  long.  Cook  the  sausage 
as  for  breakfast;  remove  the  skins  and  cut  them  into  thin,  even 
slices.  Make  a  layer  of  the  polenta  squares  in  a  greased  baking 
dish  (suitable  for  the  table),  sprinkle  with  the  sausage,  butter 
substitute  in  bits,  and  cheese;  continue  the  layers  until  all  the 
materials  are  used.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  very  hot 
throughout.  Thick  tomato  puree  or  a  rich  meat  stock,  one  or 
both,  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  layers  with  the  sausage,  cheese, 
etc. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

1  pint  pea  beans  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  soda  2  tablespoonfuls  molasses  or  sugar 

J  pound  salt  pork  1  teaspoonful  mustard 

Soak  the  beans  in  cold  water  (soft  water  preferred)  over 
night.  In  the  morning  wash  and  rinse  thoroughly,  then  parboil 
until  they  are  soft  enough  to  pierce  with  a  pin  and  no  longer. 
Change  the  water  while  parboiling,  always  using  boiling  water 
for  cooking  and  rinsing.  During  the  last  boiling  add  soda. 
Rinse  thoroughly  in  hot  water.  Put  one  half  of  the  beans  in 
the  bean  pot.  Pour  scalding  hot  water  over  the  salt  pork  and 
score  the  rind  in  half-inch  strips.  Put  into  the  bean  pot  above 
the  beans,  and  pour  in  the  remainder  of  the  beans.  Mix  the 
mustard,  salt,  and  molasses,  or  sugar,  with  hot  water  and  pour 
over  the  beans;  add  boiling  water  to  cover.  Bake  about  eight 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Keep  the  beans  covered  with  water, 
and,  also,  the  cover  on  the  pot  until  the  last  hour.  The  pork 
may  be  drawn  to  the  surface  and  browned  during  the  last  hour. 


Dishes  Rich  in  Protein  25 

BAKED  BEANS,   SPANISH  FASHION 

1  pint  dried  beans  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  soda  2  slices  bacon 

Sweet  red  peppers  Tomato  puree 

Use  yellow-eyed,  Lima,  or  dark  kidney  beans,  as  desired. 
Let  soak  in  cold  water  overnight.  Drain,  rinse,  and  set  to  cook 
in  cold  water;  let  simmer  until  the  skins  are  somewhat  tender; 
drain  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Turn  a  layer  of  beans  into  a 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  on  red  peppers,  chopped  fine,  also  a  few 
bits  of  bacon ;  continue  the  layers  until  the  beans  are  used ;  add 
the  salt  and  tomato  puree  to  cover  the  beans.  Bake  two  or 
three  hours,  or  until  the  beans  are  tender.  Yellow-eyed  or  dark 
kidney  beans  require  longer  cooking  than  Lima  beans.  More 
tomato  may  be  added  as  needed.  To  secure  the  puree,  press 
cooked  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  exclude  the  seeds. 
The  peppers  may  be  omitted. 

BAKED   BEAN  TIMBALES 

1  cup  Boston  baked  beans  \  teaspoonful  paprika 

^  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs  6  tablespoonfuls  tomato  puree 

1  teaspoonful  onion-pulp  1  tablespoonful  tomato  catsup 

1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  2  eggs,  beaten  light 

Press  the  beans  through  a  sieve;  add  the  other  ingredients, 
mix  thoroughly  and  turn  into  buttered  molds.  A  pint  mold 
or  eight  small-sized  molds  may  be  used.  Let  bake  on  many 
folds  of  paper,  surrounded  with  boiling  water,  until  firm  in  the 
center.     Serve  unmolded,  with  or  without  tomato  sauce. 


BAKED  BEAN  LOAF 

2  cups  baked  beans  (left  over)  \  teaspoonful  paprika 
1  cup  soft,  fine  bread  crumbs                \  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  scraped  onion-pulp         5  cup  tomato  puree 

1 J  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley  2  tablespoonfuls  tomato  catsup 

3  eggs,  v/ell  beaten 

Press  the  beans  through  a  sieve,  add  all  the  other  ingredi- 
ents, and  mix  together  thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  mold  thoroughly 
greased;  let  bake  standing  on  folds  of  paper  and  surrounded 
by  boiling  water  until  firm  in  the  center.  Serve  turned  from  the 
mold,  with  tomato  sauce  or  stewed  tomatoes. 


26 


Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 


PEANUT  BUTTER  LOAF 


5  cup  rice 

2  cups  boiling  water 
I  teaspoonful  salt 
1  cup  peanut  butter 
I  teaspoonful  paprika 


1  egg,  beaten  light 
I  cup  milk 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  substitute 


Add  the  salt  to  the  boiling  water,  and  in  it  cook  the  rice 
until  tender,  adding  more  water  if  needed;  add  the  peanut 
butter,  paprika,  egg,  and  milk,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Shape  in 
a  mound  on  a  greased  baking  dish;  cover  with  the  cracker  crumbs 
mixed  with  the  melted  butter  substitute  and  let  bake  about 
half  an  hour.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce  or  stewed  tomato. 


AN  ITALIAN   CHEESE  DISH 


If  cups  scalded  milk 

3  tablespoonfuls  cornmeal  or 

4  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch 

5  cup  corn  fiour  or 
i  cup  cornmeal 

I  cup  cold  milk 


1  teaspoonful  salt 

5  teaspoonful  paprika 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  substitute 
2  egg-yolks 

f  cup  grated  cheese 


Stir  the  dry  ingredients  with  the  cold  milk  to  a  smooth 
consistency;  then  stir  and  cook  in  the  hot  milk  until  the  mixture 
thickens;  cover  and  let  cook  half  an  hour  or  longer,  stirring 
occasionally.  Cream  the  butter  substitute,  beat  in  the  salt, 
paprika,  egg  yolks,  and  part  of  the  cheese;  stir  and  cook  in  the 
hot  mixture  until  the  cheese  is  melted  and  the  egg  cooked.  Turn 
into  a  greased  biscuit  pan  to  make  a  layer  half  an  inch  thick. 
When  cold,  cut  in  squares  or  other  shapes;  set  these  in  a  greased 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese;  set  other  shapes  above, 
and  sprinkle  with  cheese.  When  ready  to  serve,  reheat  in  the 
oven. 

LENTIL   STEW 

(Mrs.  Schirmer) 


1  cup  lentils 
^  cup  carrots 
I  cup  potatoes 
I  cup  turnips 
1  onion 


2  stalks  celery  (or  saltspoon  celery  salt) 
1  tablespoonful  butter  (or  substitute) 
1  tablespoonful  flour 
Salt  and  pepper 


Soak  lentils  over  night.  In  morning  cook  until  tender. 
During  last  hour  of  cooking  add  vegetables.  Thicken  with 
butter  and  flour  rubbed  together.  Serve  with  or  without  dump- 
lings. 


Dishes  Rich  in  Protein  27 

LIMA  BEAN   LOAF 

Cook  Lima  beans  as  for  a  salad;  press  through  a  sieve 
while  hot,  and  stir  in  a  cup  (or  more)  of  grated  cheese,  about  a 
cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  black  pepper.  Form  into  a  loaf-shape  and  bake  on  a  greased 
dish,  basting  often  with  a  little  melted  dripping.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

HAMBURG  FRITTERS 

To  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Hamburg  steak  add  10  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  a  small  onion  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  a 
dash  of  grated  nutmeg  and  the  same  of  ground  cloves  (or  both  of 
these  may  be  omitted) .  Stir  in  2  tablespoonf uls  of  flour,  not  heap- 
ing, then  drop  from  a  spoon,  and  fry  quickly.  This  amount  makes 
ten  fritters,  and  are  very  acceptable,  tender,  and  economical. 

BEEF-AND-OATMEAL  SCRAPPLE 

2  pounds  beef  from  best  part  of  hind  leg       2|  cups  oatmeal 

2  quarts  water  2  teaspoonfuls  poultry 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt  seasoning 

Remove  the  marrow  from  the  bone,  to  use  later  on.  Pour 
the  water  over  the  meat;  heat  quickly  to  the  boiling  point  and 
let  simmer  until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  There  should  be  three 
pints  of  broth,  when  the  meat  is  done.  If  there  is  much  fat  on 
the  broth,  remove  it  when  cold.  Return  the  broth  (three  pints; 
add  water  if  needed)  to  the  fire;  add  the  salt  and  stir  in  the  oat- 
meal; stir  continuously  until  after  the  mush  has  boiled  two  or 
three  minutes ;  cover  and  let  cook  over  boiling  water  until  done. 
The  time  will  depend  on  the  kind  of  oatmeal.  Chop  the  cold 
meat  fine;  stir  the  chopped  meat  into  the  oatmeal  with  the 
spiced  seasoning  and  let  become  hot  throughout ;  turn  into  bread 
pans  to  chill.  To  serve,  cut  in  slices,  pat  each  side  in  cornmeal, 
and  let  fry  in  hot  fat,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 
The  marrow  from  the  bone  is  particularly  good  for  frying,  or  it 
may  be  chopped  with  the  meat  and  thus  added  to  the  scrapple. 
Meat  from  the  forequarter  of  lamb  is  good  in  this  dish. 

CURRIED  CHICKEN  WITH  RICE 

1  pint  cooked  chicken  (in  small  pieces)  \  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  fat  1  cup  broth 
J  onion,  sliced  fine                                              |  cup  milk 

2  teaspoonfuls  curry  powder  2  tablespoonfuls  currant 
J  cup  flour  jelly 


28  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Melt  the  fat;  in  it  cook  the  onion,  covered  close,  on  a  slow 
fire  until  softened  and  yellowed  slightly.  Stir  the  onion  occa- 
sionally; add  the  curry  powder,  flour  and  salt  and  stir  until 
blended;  add  the  broth  and  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add 
the  jelly.  When  the  jelly  has  melted,  strain  the  sauce  over  the 
chicken  and  let  stand  in  a  double  boiler  that  the  meat  may 
absorb  the  sauce.     Serve  with  plain  boiled  rice. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  half  a  cabbage  in  four  pieces,  remove  the  hard  center, 
and  let  stand  in  a  large  dish  of  cold  water  to  become  crisp. 
Set  to  cook  in  a  large,  open  kettle,  well  filled  with  boiling  water, 
to  which  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been  added.  Let  boil  about 
30  minutes.  Drain  and  chop  the  cabbage.  For  2\  cups  of 
cabbage,  melt  4  tablespoonfuls  of  fat;  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
barley  or  rye  flour,  |  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  |  teaspoonful  of 
pepper;  stir  until  blended;  add  2  cups  of  milk  and  stir  until 
boiling;  remove  from  the  fire,  add  1  cup  of  grated  cheese  (or 
from  i  to  I  pound)  and  stir  until  melted.  Grease  a  baking  dish, 
dispose  in  it  alternate  layers  of  cabbage  and  sauce,  having  the 
last  layer  sauce.  Spread  |  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  fat  over  the  top.  Set  into  the  oven 
to  reheat  the  cabbage  and  brown  the  crumbs. 

PECAN  NUT-MEAT  SAUSAGE  WITH  BANANAS 

i  cup  hot  cooked  oatmeal  \  teaspoonful  pepper 

\  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoonful  powdered  thyme  or 

2  cups  nut  meats,  crushed  poultry  seasoning 

I  teaspoonful  salt  1  egg,  beaten  light 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  thoroughly  (the  oatmeal 
should  be  quite  consistent;)  form  into  ten  shapes  to  resemble 
sausage  links;  set  these  on  a  pan  rubbed  Over  with  fat  and  let 
bake  about  20  minutes.  In  the  meantime,  peel  5  bananas, 
scrape  to  remove  coarse  threads,  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  then 
in  halves  lengthwise;  roll  or  pat  each  piece  in  cornmeal  or  flour, 
then  let  cook  in  hot  fat  until  lightly  colored  on  one  side;  turn,  to 
cook  the  other  side.     Serve  around  the  sausage. 

CREAMED   SALT  CODFISH  OR  FINNAN  HADDIE 

Pick  the  fish  in  small,  thin  bits:  cover  1  cup  with  cold  water 

and  let  stand  overnight.     Heat  in  the  same  water  until  the  fish 

shrinks  a  little  and  the  water  looks  milky.     Do  not  boil.     Drain 

oft  the  water.     Melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  substitute;  add 


Dishes  Rich  in  Protein  29 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  until  bubbling  throughout; 
add  1  cup  of  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  fish;  when  hot, 
add  one  or  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Stir  over  the  fire  without 
boiling  until  the  egg  is  cooked.  Serve  with  baked  potatoes. 
The  eggs  may  be  omitted,  but  are  needed  when  the  dish  is  used 
in  place  of  meat. 

RICE   AND   BEEF,   CREOLE   STYLE 

1  cup  rice  2  cups  broth  or  hot  water 
4  tablespoonfuls  fat  1  teaspoonful  salt 

f  cup  sliced  onion  ^  to  1  pound  round  of  beef,  chopped 

2  cups  canned  tomato  5  cup  grated  cheese 

Put  the  rice  in  a  quart  or  more  of  cold  water  over  a  quick 
fire,  stir  with  a  fork  until  boiling  and  let  boil  three  minutes; 
then  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  drain  again.  To  the  rice 
add  the  fat  and  onion,  and  let  cook  without  browning  until  the 
fat  is  absorbed  and  the  vegetables  are  slightly  yellowed.  Add 
the  tomato,  broth  or  water,  and  salt,  and  let  cook  until  the  rice 
is  done.  Stir  the  chopped  meat  in  a  hot  frying  pan  until  it 
changes  color.  Add  the  rice,  cheese,  and  more  salt  if  needed. 
Lift  with  two  forks  to  mix  thoroughly.     Serve  at  once. 

POTATO   AND   ONION  HASH 

3  cold  boiled  onions  5  teaspoonful  pepper 

4  cold  boiled  potatoes  3  tablespoonfuls  fat 
1  teaspoonful  salt 

Chop  the  potatoes  and  onions.  Melt  part  of  the  fat  in  the 
frying  pan.  Put  in  the  potatoes  and  seasoning;  mix  thoroughly. 
Push  the  mixture  to  one  side ;  put  in  the  rest  of  the  fat,  and  press 
into  a  smooth  sheet;  let  cook  until  browned  on  the  bottom; 
fold  and  turn  on  a  hot  dish. 

TRIPE  AND   ONIONS 

Take  care  to  select  tender  pickled  tripe.  Wash  in  cold 
water  and  cut  in  pieces  of  uniform  size  and  shape.  Dry  on  a 
cloth,  then  pat  in  sifted  corn  flour  or  meal.  Have  ready  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  fat,  hot,  in  a  frying  pan.  Set  in  the  tripe 
and  let  cook  until  lightly  browned  on  one  side,  then  turn  to 
brown  the  other  side.  Have  ready  small  onions,  boiled  tender 
and  seasoned  with  salt  and  a  little  butter.  Serve  the  tripe  and 
onions  on  the  same  dish.  Tripe  is  eighteen  cents  per  pound  in 
the  Boston  market.  There  is  no  waste;  every  bit  is  edible  and 
easily  digested. 


30  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

BAKED   MEXICAN  RAREBIT 

(Serves  four  to  eight) 

1  green  pepper  1  pound  cheese  (sliced  thin) 

1  slice  onion  2  cups  fleshy  part  of  tomato 

1  tablespoonful  fat  2  cups  boiled  rice(  grains  distinct) 

1  can  corn  (2  cups)  1  teaspoonful  salt 

4  eggs,  beaten  light  |  teaspoonful  paprika 

Chop  the  pepper  and  onion  and  cook  in  the  fat  until  yel- 
lowed and  softened.  Chop  the  corn.  Rub  over  a  baking  dish 
with  fat;  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  (preferably,  the  rice 
should  be  hot)  and  turn  into  the  prepared  dish.  Let  bake  on 
many  folds  of  paper  surrounded  by  boiling  water  until  firm  in 
the  center.     The  water  should  not  boil  during  the  cooking. 

SHIRRED  EGGS,  CREOLE   STYLE 

For  three  eggs,  cut  half  a  green  pepper  and  half  an  onion 
in  shreds;  put  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  vege- 
table oil,  cover  and  let  cook  very  slowly,  stirring  occasionally, 
until  softened;  add  f  cup  of  cooked-and-strained  tomato  with 
\  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  hot  turn  into  three  egg  dishes; 
into  the  tomato  in  each  dish  break  a  fresh  egg.  Let  cook  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  the  egg  is  set.     Serve  at  once. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE   SAUCE 

For  three  eggs  and  three  slices  of  toast  make  a  cup  of  cream 
sauce  with  2  tablespoonfuls,  each,  of  butter  and  flour,  \  teaspoon- 
ful, each,  of  salt  and  paprika,  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Add  |  cup  or 
more  of  grated  cheese  and  stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Break 
fresh  eggs  into  a  frying  pan  of  boiling  salted  water;  draw  the 
pan  to  a  place  where  the  water  will  not  boil;  when  the  eggs  are 
"  set "  on  the  bottom,  run  a  spatula  between  each  egg  and  the 
pan,  then  let  stand  undisturbed  until  as  firm  as  desired.  Dip 
the  edges  of  the  toast  in  the  hot  water  and  dispose  on  individual 
plates;  pour  over  it  the  sauce,  and  with  a  skimmer  drain  the 
eggs  and  set  above  the  sauce. 

EGG  CROQUETTES,  ITALIAN   STYLE 

4  hard-cooked  eggs  \  cup  cream 

\  cup  butter  substitute  i  cup  or  more  grated  cheese 

\  cup  flour  1  egg,  beaten 

I  teaspoonful  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  milk 

§  teaspoonful  paprika  Soft  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  milk 


Dishes  Rich  in  Protein  31 

Cut  the  eggs  into  half-inch  cubes.  Melt  the  fat;  in  it  cook 
the  flour,  salt,  and  pepper;  add  the  milk  and  cream  and  stir 
until  boiling;  beat  in  the  cheese,  then  fold  in  the  prepared  eggs 
and  turn  on  a  greased  plate  to  chill.  Form  into  croquette  shapes. 
If  the  croquettes  are  to  be  baked,  brush  them  over  with  the 
beaten  egg,  mixed  with  the  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  then 
coat  them  with  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
fat.  If  they  are  to  be  fried,  roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  the  egg  and 
milk,  and  again  in  crumbs.    Serve  with  or  without  tomato  sauce. 

FRESH  FISH  CUTLETS,  BREADED  AND  BAKED 

These  cutlets  may  be  made  of  almost  any  variety  of  fresh 
or  canned  fish.  If  fresh  fish  is  used,  be  careful  to  remove  from 
the  liquid  or  heat  as  soon  as  the  flesh  flakes  easily.  Make  a 
sauce  of  \  cup  of  fat,  \  cup  of  barley  flour,  \  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  1  cup  of  milk  or  fish  broth,  with  \  cup  of  cream;  fold  in 
nearly  2  cups  of  flaked  fish  and  turn  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Form 
into  cutlet  shapes,  coat  with  beaten  egg,  diluted  with  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk.  Mix  1  cup  of  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  fat,  and  use  to  cover  the  cutlets.  Bake  on  a 
greased  plate  in  a  hot  oven. 

FRESH  FISH  SMOTHERED  IN  TOMATO   SAUCE 

Shred  a  small  onion  and  a  green  pepper,  and  let  cook  in  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  fat,  in  a  covered  casserole,  very  slowly,  until 
the  onion  is  softened  and  yellowed  a  little;  add  \  can  of  tomatoes 
or  tomato  soup  and  1  tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped  parsley, 
and  when  boiling  lay  in  slices  or  filets  of  fresh  fish  freed  of  all 
skin  and  bone;  cover  and  let  cook  about  10  minutes,  or  until 
the  fish  flakes  readily.  Stir  in  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  barley 
flour  mixed  with  cold  water,  and  |  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  let 
simmer  10  minutes  longer.  Serve  from  the  casserole.  The 
cooking  may  be  done  on  the  top  of  the  stove  or  in  the  oven.  A 
double  boiler  may  also  be  used;  in  this  case  the  fish  is  very 
delicately  cooked. 

ANCHOVY  TOAST  WITH  SPINACH 

Make  toast  and  spread  it  with  anchovy  paste  in  the  usual 
way;  upon  this  place  well-cooked  and  chopped  spinach,  seasoned 
with  red  pepper  or  tabasco  sauce.  Set  poached  eggs  on  top. 
Surround  with  a  cream  sauce. 


32  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

FLOUNDER-AND-OYSTER  SANDWICH 

To  serve  three  or  four  people,  buy  2  flounders  of  a  little 
more  than  a  pound  each.  This  will  give  four  filets  weighing  one 
pound.  Have  the  skin  and  bones  sent  with  the  filets  of  fish; 
also  purchase  half  a  pint  of  oysters.  Put  the  fish  trimmings 
over  the  fire  with  a  few  celery  leaves,  half  an  onion,  sliced,  and 
a  few  slices  of  carrot  and  cold  water  to  cover.  Let  cook  half 
an  hour,  then  strain  off  the  liquid.  Rub  over  a  fiat  piece  of  tin 
vath  fat;  on  it  set  one  of  the  fiJets,  seasoned  with  salt.  Pour 
^  cup  of  cold  water  over  the  oysters.  Take  up  an  oyster  to 
remove  any  shell  that  is  present,  dip  in  melted  fat,  then  in 
cracker  crumbs  and  set  on  the  fish;  repeat  until  the  fish  is 
covered ;  set  a  second  filet  of  fish  over  the  oysters,  cover  this 
with  oysters  as  before;  repeat,  having  a  filet  of  fish  above  the 
whole;  set  strips  of  pork  above  the  fish;  strain  the  oyster  liquid 
into  the  fish  broth;  pour  a  little  of  the  liquid  around  the  fish. 
Let  cook  about  35  minutes.  Remove  the  pork,  sprinkle  with 
cracker  crumbs,  mixed  with  vegetable  oil,  and  return  to  the 
oven  to  brown  the  crumbs.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  the 
rest  of  the  fish  broth. 

BROILED   SALT  MACKEREL 

Let  the  mackerel  stand,  skin  side  up,  covered  with  cold 
water,  thirty-six  to  forty-eight  hours.  Set  over  the  fire  in  a 
fresh  supply  of  cold  water,  and  let  heat  gradually  to  just  below 
the  boiling  point.  Drain  and  set  in  the  same  dish  under  the 
gas  burner,  or  put  the  fish  between  the  well-oiled  bars  of  a  double 
broiler,  and  let  brown  slightly,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the 
other,  over  a  bed  of  coals. 

LEFT-OVER   SALT  MACKEREL  AND  POTATO   BALLS 

Cut  enough  pared  potatoes  into  quarters  to  fill  a  pint  cup. 
Turn  into  a  saucepan,  surround  with  boiling  water,  and  turn  1 
cup  of  cooked  mackerel,  picked  into  fine  bits,  in  the  center  of 
the  potatoes,  above  the  water.  Let  cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
done;  drain,  shake  the  fish  from  the  potatoes  and  press  the  latter 
through  the  ricer,  over  the  fish ;  add  ^  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper, 
1  egg,  beaten  light,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  butter  substitute.  Beat 
all  together  thoroughly;  lightly  shape  into  balls.  Fry  at  once, 
five  at  a  time,  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  pickles,  lettuce,  or  cab- 
bage salad. 


Dishes  Rich  in  Protein  33 

CREAMED   FINNAN   HADDIE,   MEXICAN   STYLE 

The  whole  fish  or  canned  flakes  of  fish  may  be  used.  The 
whole  fish  must  be  cooked  first  and  should  be  made  ready  in 
advance.  Set  to  cook  on  the  back  of  the  range,  flesh  side  down- 
wards, in  cold  water;  after  half  an  hour  draw  the  saucepan  for- 
ward and  let  heat  gradually  to  the  simmering  point.  Let  sim- 
mer about  6  minutes,  then  drain  and  separate  the  flakes  from 
the  skin  and  bones.  For  each  cup  of  flakes  prepare  a  cup  of 
cream  sauce ;  stir  into  the  sauce  half  a  teaspoonful  of  fine-chopped 
chili  pepper,  then  add  the  fish.  This  is  particularly  good  with 
baked  potatoes. 

LITTLE  FISH  PIES 

These  are  made  of  mashed  potato  and  "  left-over  "  fish. 
Rub  over  earthen  ramekins  with  vegetable  oil,  press  potatoes, 
mashed  and  seasoned  as  for  the  table,  into  them  to  line  with  a 
layer  of  potato  half  an  inch  thick.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of 
2  tablespoonfuls,  each,  of  fat  and  barley  flour,  \  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  1  cup  of  fish  broth  or  milk;  add  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  if  at  hand,  and  1^  cups  ot  cooked  fish, 
separated  into  flakes.  Use  this  to  fill  the  prepared  ramekins. 
Cover  the  fish  with  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  vegetable  oil,  and  let  reheat  in  the  oven  until  the  crumbs  are 
browned. 

LEFT-OVER  FISH  PIE 

Line  a  greased  dish  with  mashed  potato.  For  each  cup  and 
a  quarter  or  half  of  fish,  separated  into  flakes,  make  a  cup  of 
cream  or  white  sauce  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  substitute,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  barley  flour,  \  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and 
pepper,  and  \  cup,  each,  of  fish  stock  and  milk.  The  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg  may  be  added  to  the  sauce  if  convenient,  also 
onion  juice  and  chopped  parsley.  Mix  the  fish  through  the 
sauce,  and  turn  into  the  dish.  Put  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with 
I  teaspoonful  of  fat  over  the  fish,  and  brush  over  the  edge  of  the 
potato  with  fat.     Reheat  in  a  hot  oven. 

FRESH  MACKEREL,  BAKED,  CREOLE   STYLE 

Split  a  carefully  cleaned  mackerel,  and  set  into  a  greased 
agate  dish.  Brush  over  the  flesh  side  with  a  little  melted  fat 
and  let  bake  about  15  minutes.  While  the  mackerel  is  cooking, 
slice  fine  1  onion  and  1   green  pepper,  and  let  cook  in  2  table- 


34  Economical  War-2'ime  Cook  Book 

spoonfuls  of  fat,  stirring  constantly;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
barley  or  whole  wheat  flour,  and  stir  until  absorbed  by  the  fat; 
add  1|  cups  of  cooked  tomatoes,  |  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  |  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley;  stir  until 
boiling,  then  pour  over  the  fish  and  return  to  the  oven  to  cook 
15  minutes  longer. 

CREAMED   CODFISH  IN  POTATO   PATTIES 

Season  hot  mashed  potato  as  for  the  table,  but  keep  it 
quite  firm.  Beat  very  thoroughly,  then  press  into  a  buttered 
baking  pan  to  make  a  sheet  a  generous  half-inch  in  thickness. 
When  nearly  cold  cut  it  into  rounds  with  a  French  patty  cutter. 
Stamp  out  the  centers  from  half  the  rounds  to  make  rings,  and 
score  the  other  half  with  the  same  cutter.  Take  out  a  little  of 
the  potato  inside  the  scoring.  Lift  the  rounds  to  a  buttered 
baking  sheet,  and  set  a  ring  above  each  round,  thus  forming 
cases.  Brush  over  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  diluted  with 
a  little  milk,  and  set  into  the  oven  to  become  very  hot.  Prepare 
a  cup  of  creamed  codfish ;  add  to  it  the  rest  of  the  egg-yolk  and 
milk,  and  when  the  egg  is  set,  serve  in  the  potato  patties. 

CREAMED   CODFISH 

Ij  cup  salt  codfish  \  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  substitute  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  barley  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

The  codfish  should  be  picked  in  bits  and  left  to  stand  several 
hours  or  overnight  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Let  heat  to  just 
below  the  boiling  point  or  until  the  water  looks  milky;  drain  off 
the  water.  Melt  the  fat;  in  it  cook  the  flour  and  pepper;  add 
the  milk,  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  fish  and  beat  in  the  egg. 

FINNAN   HADDIE   TIMBALES 

1  cup  finnan  haddie  (canned  or  fresh)        |  teaspoonful  paprika 
1  unbeaten  egg  1  egg,  beaten  light 

^  teaspoonful  salt  1  cup  cream 

Pound  the  fish  and  unbeaten  egg  in  a  wooden  bowl  to  a 
smooth  pulp,  then  with  the  pestle  press  it  through  a  coarse 
strainer.  Add  the  seasoning  and  fold  in  the  egg  and  cream. 
The  cream  may  be  beaten  or  not.  Have  a  mold  rubbed  over 
with  fat.  Put  in  the  mixture.  Let  cook  in  a  dish  of  boiling 
water  (as  a  custard)  without  boiling  the  water,  until  firm  in  the 
center.  Unmold.  Garnish  with  a  cold,  boiled  egg  cut  in  eighths 
lengthwise.     Serve  drawn  butter  sauce  in  a  bowl. 


How  to  Extend  Meat  Flavor  35 

HOW  TO   EXTEND   MEAT  FLAVOR 

We  have  become  very  fond  of  the  flavor  of  meat,  especially 
that  of  roasted  and  broiled  meats.  We  may  make  many  bland 
foods,  or  those  of  less  characteristic  flavor  than  meat,  more  ap- 
petizing by  giving  them  meat  flavor.  There  are  various  ways  in 
which  this  can  be  done,  as, — 

First,  browning  meat  in  a  little  fat  before  setting  it  to  cook 
with  onions,  carrots,  potatoes,  etc.,  in  a  close-covered  dish  (cas- 
serole). We  may  cook  the  meat  with  the  vegetables  without 
browning  it,  but  browning  the  meat  intensifies  the  flavor,  and, 
as  fat  is  a  good  carrier  of  flavor,  a  small  piece  of  meat  thus  treated 
will  serve  the  purpose  of  a  larger  piece  of  meat  not  so  treated. 

Second,  water  in  which  bones  and  trimmings  from  roast 
meats,  vegetables,  seeds,  and  sweet  herbs  are  simmered  (to 
dissolve  into  it  browned  juices  of  the  meat  adhering  to  the 
bones,  etc.)  may  be  used  to  flavor  soups  with  a  foundation  of 
cereals  and  vegetables. 

Third,  by  cooking  with  the  vegetable  forming  the  body  of 
the  soup,  a  ham  bone  or  a  few  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork. 

Fourth,  when  roasting  a  piece  of  meat  serve  it  the  first  day 
with  no  sauce  save  that  of  its  own  juice  (platter  gravy)  or  a 
cream  sauce  (made  of  milk),  with  onions  or  some  other  vegetable. 
Pour  off  the  fat  from  the  roasting-pan ;  add  a  cup  of  hot  water 
and  let  simmer  to  dissolve  into  the  water  all  the  browned  juices 
on  the  pan,  —  reserve  this  for  a  sauce  to  use  with  the  meat 
when  cold  or  for  the  body  of  a  soup  at  a  later  day. 

SOUP  FROM  BONES  OF  ROAST  FOWL 

Remove  all  bits  of  meat  from  the  bones  for  other  use. 
Separate  the  bones  at  the  joints;  add  to  them  all  browned  skin, 
also  neck  and  giblets  with  skinned  feet,  if  not  already  used. 
Cover  with  cold  water,  and  set  over  the  fire.  Melt  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  chicken  or  other  fat,  sHce  into  it  1  onion,  3  stalks  of  celery 
and  a  scraped  carrot;  add  3  branches  of  parsley  and  a  blade  of 
mace,  cover  and  let  cook  (stirring  occasionally)  about  20  minutes, 
or  until  softened  and  yellowed  slightly.  By  covering  the  dish, 
the  vegetables  will  steam  in  the  fat  and  their  own  moisture; 
add  to  the  bones  with  a  cup  of  left-over  canned  corn,  if  at  hand, 
and  let  the  whole  simmer  very  gently  about  1  hour;  take  out  the 
bones  and  press  the  rest  through  a  fine  sieve.  This  broth  may 
be  used  iij  making  almost  any  variety  of  unclarified  soup.     By 


36  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

the  addition  of  salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  can  of  tomato  soup,  a 
particularly  good  tomato  soup  results.  A  little  fresh  meat  with 
the  bones  improves  the  flavor. 

OKRA  SOUP 

Add  1  cup  of  boiled  rice,  1  can  of  okra,  |  can  of  tomatoes, 
cut  in  bits,  and  the  bits  of  fowl  taken  from  the  bones,  and  a 
hearty  dish  of  okra  soup  is  produced. 

TAPIOCA  SOUP 

Add  I  cup  of  tapioca  cooked  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  finish 
with  1  or  2  egg-yolks,  beaten  and  mixed  with  i  to  ^  cup  of  cream 
from  the  top  of  the  milk  bottle. 

EMERGENCY   SOUP 

1  cup  half-Inch  cubes  of  potato  ^  cup  half-inch  cubes  of  carrot 
4  cups  water  or  broth  from  left-over  meats  5  cup  slices  of  celery 

2  tablespoonfuls  meat  extract  with  water  1  onion  (medium)  cut  in  shreds 
Salt  and  pepper  as  needed  j  cup  chicken  or  bacon  fat 

Cook  the  carrot,  celery,  and  onion  in  the  fat,  covered, 
stirring  occasionally  over  a  very  moderate  heat  about  15  minutes. 
Cook  the  potatoes  in  boiling  water  5  minutes,  drain,  rinse  in 
cold  water  and  drain  again.  Add  the  potato  to  the  other  vege- 
tables with  the  water  or  broth,  and  let  cook  nearly  1  hour; 
add  the  meat  extract,  if  used,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
There  should  be  four  scant  cups  of  soup. 

OATMEAL  SOUP 
Have  1  quart  of  broth  made  from  chicken  bones,  etc.,  boil- 
ing over  the  fire;  sprinkle  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  quick-cooking 
oatmeal,  stirring  constantly  meanwhile,  and  let  boil  5  minutes; 
set  into  a  double-boiler  and  let  cook  half  an  hour  or  longer. 
Two  stalks  of  celery,  or  the  equivalent  in  celery  leaves,  3  slices 
of  onion,  6  slices  of  carrot,  and  3  or  4  parsley  branches  to  be 
cooked  in  the  broth.  When  ready  to  serve,  strain,  and  add  3  cups 
of  hot  milk  with  1^  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Use  more  oatmeal  if 
a  thicker  soup  is  preferred. 

TOMATO   BOUILLON 

Cook  1  can  of  tomatoes,  2  cups  of  water,  and  ^  cup,  each,  of 
celery  leaves,  sliced  onion  and  carrot,  at  a  gentle  simmer  25 
minutes,  and  strain  through  a  napkin  wrung  out  of  hot  water; 
reheat  with  an  equal  quantity  of  broth,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  catsup,  and  salt  and  pepper  as  needed. 


How  to  Extend  Meat  Flavor  37 

POTATO   PUREE 

(Serve  six) 

Pour  boiling  water  over  \  pound  of  salt  pork,  and  scrape  and 
rinse  in  cold  water.  To  the  pork  add  3  potatoes,  pared  and  cut 
in  quarters,  1  onion,  peeled  and  sliced,  4  branches  of  parsley, 
and  I  cup  of  dried  celery  leaves  or  5  outside  celery  stalks  cut  in 
pieces.  Let  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done  (in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  the  potatoes).  Remove  the  pork  for  other  use. 
Press  as  much  as  possible  of  the  other  vegetables  and  the  water 
through  a  fine  sieve.  To  the  puree  add  1  quart  of  hot  milk  or 
white  broth,  with  1|  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  |  teaspoonful  of 
pepper.  When  boiling,  add  1  cup  of  cream,  with  more  salt  and 
pepper  if  needed.     Serve  at  once  with  croutons. 

MOCK  LOBSTER  BISQUE 

(Serve  ten  to  twelve) 

Cook  1  quart  of  milk  or  white  broth  with  |  cup  of  shredded 
codfish  in  a  double-boiler  20  minutes,  then  strain  out  the  fish 
(use  the  fish  in  cream  sauce  on  potatoes  next  morning).  Cook  2 
cups  of  tomatoes,  2  slices  of  onion,  a  small  piece  of  bay  leaf,  a 
few  sprigs,  each,  of  thyme  and  parsley  10  minutes;  strain  and 
add  \  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  until  well  cooked,  then 
let  cool ;  add  a  little  of  the  hot  milk,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add 
the  rest  of  the  milk  gradually  and  stir  until  boiling.  When 
ready  to  serve,  combine  the  two  mixtures.  Serve  in  cups  with 
a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  the  top  of  the  soup  in  each 
cup.     Season  the  cream  with  salt  and  paprika  before  whipping. 

ONION  SOUP 

Peel  and  wash  6  onions,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  then 
cook  them  in  |  cup  of  hot  fat,  turning  them  over  and  over  until 
they  are  of  an  amber  shade;  sprinkle  on  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  stir  and  cook  until  the  flour  is  absorbed,  then  add  about 
1  quart  of  white  broth  or  milk  and  let  cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  boiling,  then  let  simmer  20  minutes.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Serve  in  cups  with  a  spoonful  of  croutons  sprinkled 
above  the  soup.  Or,  spread  rounds  of  hot  toasted  roll  with 
grated  cheese,  let  stand  in  the  oven  a  moment,  then  serve  one 
on  the  top  of  each  cup  or  plate  of  soup.  Do  not  add  croutons 
or  roll  until  the  moment  of  serving. 


38  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

VEGETABLES 


PUREE   OF  RED  KIDNEY  BEANS 

Wash  1  pint  of  red  beans  and  set  them  in  a  stewpan  with  2 
branches  of  parsley,  1  leek,  3  slices  of  bacon  and  1  quart  or  more 
of  water;  let  simmer  3  or  4  hours,  adding  boiling  water  as  needed, 
but  letting  the  water  cook  out,  at  the  last,  until  the  beans  are 
quite  fret  from  superfluous  liquid ;  remove  the  parsley,  leek  and 
bacon,  reserving  the  bacon  for  hash.  Press  the  beans  through 
a  sieve  with  a  wooden  pestle;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
§  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  black  pepper,  and  let  become 
very  hot.  Serve  as  the  hearty  dish  at  luncheon  or  supper.  A 
green  vegetable  or  a  tomato  salad  and  coarse  bread  should 
accompany  the  beans. 

CARROTS 

Use  freshly  cooked  or  canned  carrots.  The  carrots  after 
scraping  may  be  cut  in  quarters  lengthwise  ( if  small  and  young) 
or  in  thin  slices.  When  tender  return  to  the  fire  with  (for  a 
pint)  I  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful 
of  butter  substitute,  and  a  little  black  pepper  if  wished.  Shake 
the  pan  over  the  fire  till  the  carrots  have  taken  up  the  various 
ingredients.     Serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

SUMMER   SQUASH,   SAUTE 

Select  young  squash  about  four  inches  in  length  (club-shaped 
are  most  convenient) ;  cut  oflf  a  thin  paring,  then  divide  into 
lengthwise  sHces  half  an  inch  or  less  thick.  Roll  in  cornmeal 
mixed  with  salt  and  pepper  and  let  cook  in  a  little  hot  fat  until 
browned  on  one  side;  turn  and  brown  the  other  side. 

ONIONS  ON  TOAST  WITH   CREAM   SAUCE 

Peel  mild  onions;  let  boil  rapidly  1  hour;  drain,  add  fresh 
water  and  a  little  salt  and  let  cook  until  they  are  tender  and  the 
water  is  well  reduced.  Have  a  slice  of  well-toasted  bread  for 
each  onion.  Set  the  onions  on  the  toast  and  pour  over  (for  6 
onions)  sauce  made  of  3  tablespoonfuls,  each,  of  butter  and  flour, 
the  liquid  left  on  the  onions  with  cream  to  make  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  liquid.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  For  a  heartier 
dish  add  grated  cheese  —  2  tablespoonfuls  to  1  cup  —  to  the 
sauce  before  pouring  it  over  the  onions. 


Vegetables  39 

ONIONS   STUFFED   WITH  PEANUT  BUTTER 

Select  mild  onions  of  medium  size;  peel,  and  let  boil  until 
tender.  Cut  out  the  center  from  each  to  leave  a  thin  shell  of 
onion.  Chop  the  onion  removed,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  soft 
fine  bread-crumbs,  and,  for  a  pint  of  material,  about  ^  cup  of 
peanut  butter,  |  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  |  teaspoonful  of  paprika. 
A  chili  pepper,  chopped  fine,  may  replace  the  paprika.  Mix 
and  use  to  fill  the  onions.  Let  cook  in  the  oven  about  15  minutes, 
basting  with  a  little  hot  milk  when  setting  into  the  oven  and 
twice  afterwards.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  using  the  milk  in 
the  dish  as  a  part  of  the  liquid. 

POTATO-AND-ONION   HASH 

2  cold  boiled  onions,  chopped  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley 

2  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes,  chopped         3  tablespoonfuls  fat 
I  teaspoonful  salt 

Heat  the  fat  in  an  iron  frying  pan;  put  in  the  onion,  pota- 
toes, salt,  and  parsley;  cover  and  let  stand  on  the  top  of  the 
range  4  minutes;  uncover  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly. 
Set  the  pan  into  the  oven  and  let  cook  until  browned  a  little  on 
the  bottom;  fold  in  the  middle,  and  turn  on  a  hot  platter. 

PUFFED   PAPRIKA  POTATOES 

Bake  5  potatoes  —  carefully  scrubbed  —  until  done.  Cut 
a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  and  remove  the  contents  to  leave  the 
skin  intact  for  cups  or  cases.  Press  the  potato  through  a  ricer; 
add  ^  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  about 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  puree. 
With  a  slitted  wooden  spoon  or  a  silver  fork,  beat  the  mixture 
until  very  light,  then  fold  in  the  white  of  one  egg  (a  second 
white  is  better)  beaten  dry.  Fill  the  cases  with  the  mixture, 
set  them  on  a  pan  in  a  hot  oven  to  reheat  and  puff.  Serve  at 
once  with  roast  or  broiled  meats,  with  chicken  or  with  fish. 

PAPRIKA  BAKED  POTATOES 

Bake  smooth,  well-shaped  potatoes  till  just  done.  Score 
them  twice  across  one  surface  at  right  angles,  push  or  press  the 
pulp  upward  through  the  scoring,  set  on  plate  and  dispose  a 
cube  of  butter  in  the  center  of  the  opening  thus  made.  Sprinkle 
lightly  with  paprika  and  serve  at  once. 


40  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

SCALLOPED   POTATOES 

Cut  a  peeled  onion  in  very  thin  slices  and  divide  the  slices 
in  quarters.  Melt  3  tablespoonfuls  of  fat;  add  the  onion, 
cover,  and  let  cook  very  slowly  on  the  back  of  the  range  until 
softened,  stirring  occasionally.  Slice  a  layer  of  boiled  potatoes 
into  a  baking  dish  holding  about  one  quart,  and  sprinkle  with  a 
little  of  the  onion  and  with  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  parsley; 
continue  the  layers  until  the  dish  is  filled;  add  milk  or  broth 
made  from  left-over  roasts,  until  it  can  be  seen  through  the  po- 
tatoes. Let  bake  about  half  an  hour.  This  dish  may  be  made 
also  with  raw  potatoes  or  with  potatoes  sliced  and  parboiled 
about  five  minutes.  In  either  case  the  time  of  baking  must  be 
increased  to  one  hour  or  longer. 

POTATO  BALLS,   SURPRISE 

Press  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a  ricer;  add  salt,  pepper, 
milk,  and  fat,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Shape  into  balls.  Make  a 
depression  in  each  ball;  have  ready  grated  cheese  mixed  with 
paprika  and  melted  fat;  put  a  teaspoonful  of  the  cheese  mixture 
in  each  depression;  cover  the  cheese  with  the  potato.  Set  the 
balls  on  a  greased  baking  dish,  pour  a  few  drops  of  fat  on  each 
and  set  into  a  hot  oven  to  reheat.     Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

CREAMED   POTATOES 

Pare  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  half-inch  cubes.  Boil  in 
salted  water  until  tender.  For  3  cups  of  potatoes  make  a 
sauce  of  |  cup  of  butter  substitute,  \  cup  of  barley  flour,  §  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  2  cups  of  milk.  Add  the  drained  potatoes 
and  turn  into  a  hot  dish ;  sprinkle  with  a  tablespoonf ul  of  fine- 
chopped  parsley. 

GRILLED   SWEET  POTATOES 

Left-over  baked  or  boiled  sweet  potatoes  may  be  used  for 
this  dish,  or  sweet  potatoes  may  be  cooked  for  the  purpose. 
The  potatoes  should  be  cut  in  lengthwise  halves.  Rub  over 
the  bars  of  the  broiler  with  a  strip  of  bacon  or  fat  pork,  set  the 
potatoes,  dipped  in  melted  fat,  on  the  broiler,  and  cook,  turning 
often,  to  avoid  burning,  until  hot  throughout  and  slightly 
browned.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

White  potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


Salads  41 

SAVORY  POTATOES 

1  teaspoonful  salt  5  potatoes 

I  teaspoonful  paprika  1  onion 

4  tablespoonfuls  bacon  or  chicken  2  tomatoes 

fat ;  boiling  water  1  green  pepper 

Pare  and  slice  the  potatoes  into  cold  water.  Peel  and  slice 
the  onion  exceedingly  thin.  Peel  the  tomatoes  and  cut  them 
in  small  pieces.  Chop  or  finely  shred  the  pepper.  Grease  a 
baking  dish;  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes;  add  onion,  tomatoes, 
and  pepper;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  little  of 
the  fat.  Continue  the  layers  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used. 
Have  potatoes  on  the  top,  sprinkled  with  only  salt,  pepper,  and 
fat.  Add  boiling  water  just  to  cover  the  potato.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  nearly  3  hours.     More  water  may  be  added  if  needed. 

USES  FOR  COLD   MASHED  POTATO 

If  the  mashed  potato  is  carefully  prepared,  well  seasoned, 
light  and  fluffy,  the  potato  cakes,  when  reheated,  either  on  a 
greased  dish  in  the  oven,  or  in  the  frying  pan  in  a  little  hot  fat, 
ought  to  be  about  as  satisfactory  as  when  first  served.  Any 
sort  of  cooked  fish  may  be  mixed  with  the  potato.  Finnan 
haddie,  salmon,  haddock,  halibut,  mackerel  or  codfish  (fresh 
or  salt)  may  be  used.  For  frying,  pat  the  cakes  in  a  little  barley 
or  corn  flour  before  setting  them  to  cook. 

Cold  mashed  potato  may  be  added  to  biscuits,  doughnuts, 
or  bread.  For  doughnuts  use  half  a  cup  to  about  two  cups  and 
a  half  of  flour.  Mix  the  potato  with  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Rather 
more  potato  may  be  used  in  biscuits  and  bread.  In  bakings 
powder  biscuit,  use  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  for  each 
cup  of  potato  besides  the  quantity  taken  for  the  flour.  Mashed 
potato  may  be  used  with  onion  and  celery  in  a  cream  soup. 

SALADS  AND   ACCOMPANIMENTS 


DATE-AND-APPLE  SALAD 

Cut  dates  into  lengthwise  pieces,  discarding  the  seeds; 
add  to  ^  pound  of  dates  1  or  2  apples,  pared,  cored  and  cut  in 
short,  match-like  pieces;  at  once  squeeze  over  the  fruit  the  juice 
of  1  lemon.     Mix,  sprinkle  with  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  then  pour 


42  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

on  6  tablespoonfuls  of  oil;  mix  again,  and  serve  on  heart-leaves 
of  lettuce  with  bread. 

PEAR  SALAD 

Set  half  a  canned  pear  on  two  or  three  heart-leaves  of  let- 
tuce; above  sprinkle  eight  or  ten  cubes  of  Neufchatel  cheese 
and  half  as  many  strips  of  pimiento.  To  serve  eight,  take  1 
cup  of  double  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pear  syrup,  \  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  honey,  and  beat  quite  light.  Use  as  a  dressing  for  the  salad. 
Serve  as  a  second  or  sweet  coiirse. 

POTATO  AND  SALT-MACKEREL  SALAD 

Use  about  twice  the  measure  of  potato  cubes  as  flakes  of 
mackerel.  Mix  with  the  grated  pulp  of  half  an  onion  (one  pint 
of  potato),  1  tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped  parsley,  1  dill-pickle 
chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  mayonnaise,  and  ^  cup  of  whipped  cream ; 
1  teaspoonful  of  grated  horse-radish  is  also  good.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish  with  whole  canned  tomatoes  or  with 
slices  of  canned  tomatoes. 

POTATO   SALAD   WITH   SARDINES  AND   OLIVES 

Cut  cold,  boiled  potatoes  in  half-inch  cubes.  Chop  ex- 
ceedingly fine  2  slices  of  onion,  1  cucumber  pickle,  ^  fresh  or 
pickled  red  pepper,  and  \  cup  of  parsley  leaves.  Add  these  to 
3  cups  of  potato  cube^  with  5  or  6  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil, 
\  teaspoonful  of  salt,  §  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  and  1  hard-cooked  egg  (chopped  by  itself).  Mix  all 
together  thoroughly;  shape  in  a  mound  on  a  serving  dish  and 
finish  with  2  slices  of  egg  (cut  from  the  egg  before  chopping  the 
rest)  and  heart-leaves  of  lettuce.  Surround  with  sardines,  freed 
from  oil,  and  olives. 

LETTUCE,  PRUNE  AND  CREAM-CHEESE  SALAD, 
HONEY  DRESSING 

Soak  \  pound  of  prunes  overnight  in  cold  water;  simmer 
until  barely  tender  and  the  liquid  absorbed.  Cut  the  flesh 
from  the  stones  in  lengthwise  strips,  keeping  the  pieces  in  good 
shape.  Cut  1  cream  cheese  into  half-inch  cubes.  Wash  and 
dry  the  heart-leaves  of  1  head  of  lettuce.  Mix  |  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  paprika  with  6  tablespoonfuls  of  honey  and  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.     Make  a  layer  of  cheese  on  a  bed 


Salads  43 

of  lettuce  and  dispose  the  prepared  prunes  above ;  pour  the  dress- 
ing over  the  whole  and  serve  at  once.  If  the  salad  seems  dry, 
prepare  a  little  more  dressing.  This  dressing  is  good  on  lettuce 
served  without  fruit,  and  is  particularly  good  on  a  grapefruit  or 
orange  salad;  use  the  juice  of  the  fruit  with  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon. 

LIMA  BEAN   SALAD 

Soak  1  cup  of  Lima  beans  in  cold  water  overnight.  Wash 
and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Pour  on  boiling  water,  and  let  cook 
until  the  beans  are  tender  and  the  water  is  evaporated.  Use 
an  asbestos  mat  for  the  last  of  the  cooking.  Add  |  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  |  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  set  aside  to  chill. 
Mix  1  tablespoonful,  each,  of  grated  onion  and  fine-chopped 
parsley,  \  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  paprika,  4  to  6  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vegetable  oil,  5  olives  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  and  pour  over 
the  chilled  beans.  Lift  with  a  spoon  and  fork,  repeatedly,  and 
set  aside  for  an  hour  or  longer.  Serve  with  lettuce-hearts,  or 
a  shredded  green  pepper,  or  both. 

CLUB   SANDWICHES  FOR  FISH  DAYS 

(For  use  in  Tea  Rooms,  etc.) 
Prepare  four  triangular  pieces  of  toast;  let  cool,  then  spread 
with  sauce  tartare.  On  a  piece  of  the  toast  set  one  or  two 
heart-leaves  of  lettuce,  holding  sauce  tartare;  above  set  two  to 
four  large  fried  oysters;  above  the  oysters,  lettuce  holding  salad 
dressing;  above  that  two  slices  of  broiled  bacon  and  the  second 
piece  of  toast.  At  the  side  of  the  sandwiches  have  a  lettuce  leaf 
holding  additional  dressing. 

RED   CROSS  SANDWICHES 

Beat  \  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  gradually  beat  into  it 
I  pound  of  grated  cheese  (Young  American  is  good;  cream  or 
Neufchatel  may  be  used,  ungrated),  spread  bread  prepared  for 
sandwiches  with  the  cheese  mixture;  above  the  cheese  set  two 
strips  of  pimiento  to  simulate  a  cross. 

SUNDAY-NIGHT  CHEESE 

2  tablespoonfuls  fat  \  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  1  package  snappy  cheese 

1  cup  milk  or  tomato  puree  Biscuits  and  paprika 
I  teaspoonful  salt 


44  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Melt  the  fat;  in  it  cook  the  flour,  salt,  and  pepper;  add  the 
milk  or  puree  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  cheese  and  stir  until 
evenly  mixed.  Set  aside  till  ready  to  use.  Cover  when  cold. 
To  use,  have  ready  any  sort  of  biscuit,  cut  rather  thin,  when 
made,  or  thicker  biscuit  may  be  split.  Barley,  rye-flour,  graham, 
rye-meal,  or  oat-flour  biscuit  are  all  suitable.  Spread  cheese 
mixture  generously  above  the  biscuit,  dredge  lightly  with  pa- 
prika, and  let  become  hot  in  a  quick  oven. 


ECONOMICAL   DESSERT   DISHES 


SUGARLESS  AND   NEAR   SUGARLESS 


BARLEY   STRAWBERRY   SHORTCAKE 

I5  cups  barley  flour  5  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

5  cup  rice  or  potato  flour  Milk  for  soft  dough 

2  teaspoonful  salt  1  quart  strawberries  • 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cup  sugar,  or  more 

Sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  together,  cut  in  the  shortening, 
and  mix  to  a  soft  dough  while  gradually  adding  the  milk.  Grease 
two  straight-sided  pans,  seven  inches  in  diameter.  Spread  the 
dough  with  a  spoon,  making  the  edges  a  little  higher  than 
the  center.  Bake  about  15  minutes.  Hull,  wash,  and  drain  the 
berries.  Mix  with  the  sugar  and  use  between  and  above  the 
crusts  spread  with  butter  or  butter  substitute. 

PEACH,    BLACKBERRY,    RASPBERRY-AND-COOKED- 
APRICOT  SHORTCAKES 

All  of  the  above  fruits  and  berries  make  choice  shortcakes 
after  the  recipe  given  above. 

CANNED  APRICOT   SHORTCAKE 

Make  "  fifty-fifty  "  biscuit  dough,  using  wheat  flour  with 
either  rye,  barley,  oatmeal,  rice  or  corn  flour.  Use  a  little  more 
milk  than  usual  so  that  the  dough  be  soft.  Spread  it  in  two  round 
layer-cake  pans  rubbed  over  with  fat.  Bake  about  15  minutes. 
Spread  with  butter  and  put  the  two  cakes  together  with  the 
fruit  and  syrup  between  and  above. 


Economical  Dessert  Dishes  45 

APPLE   CAKE 

1  cup  wheat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  cup  rye  or  barley  flour  3  apples 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  3  tablespoonfuls  small  raisins 

Ij  cups  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

\  cup  shortening  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together  twice,  and  v»^ork  in  the  short- 
ening; add  the  milk  to  the  egg  and  stir  into  the  first  mixture. 
Spread  the  dough  into  a  buttered  pan  in  a  thin  sheet.  Pare, 
quarter  and  core  the  apples,  cut  quarters  into  slices,  and  press, 
core  side  down,  in  the  top  of  the  dough,  making  rows  length- 
wise of  the  cake ;  sprinkle  with  the  currants,  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Bake  about  half  an  hour.     Serve  hot  with  butter. 

CORNCAKE  PUDDING 

1 J  cups  corncake  crumbs  5  teaspoonful  ginger 

2  egg-yolks  or  1  egg  \  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
\  cup  molasses  or  maple  syrup                  2  cups  milk 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

The  crumbs  should  be  fine;  add  the  other  ingredients,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  let  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  thick  at  the 
center.     Serve  cooled  somewhat. 

BAKED   INDIAN  PUDDING 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  \  cup  molasses 

4  tablespoonfuls  (level)  Indian  meal  §  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
§  cup  sugar  i  teaspoonful  ginger 

2  eggs  I  cup  cold  milk 

Mix  the  meal  with  the  cold  water  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk; 
stir  occasionally  and  let  cook  until  the  mixture  thickens  a  little; 
add  the  other  ingredients  except  the  cold  milk.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  pudding  dish  and  let  bake  half  an  hour;  pour  on  the 
cold  milk  and  let  bake,  without  stirring  in  the  milk,  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  2  hours. 

STEAMED  PUDDING  (No  Eggs) 

Mix  together  2  cups  of  soft  crumbs,  1  cup  of  stoned-and-cut 
raisins,  |  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  milk,  |  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
I  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  |  teaspoonful,  each,  of  clove  and  cin- 
namon. If  a  dark  pudding  be  desired,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
cocoa.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mold.  Steam  2  hours.  Serve 
with  hard  or  chocolate  sauce. 


46  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

A   SHORT   CUT  IN   RICE   PUDDING 

Boil  rice  after  the  method  approved  by  yourself,  so  that  it 
will  not  be  gluey,  but  each  grain  separate  and  light.  While 
it  is  cooking  stew  some  seedless  raisins  in  a  little  sugar  and  water. 
The  raisins  must  be  swelled  and  soft;  then  over  the  cooked 
rice,  on  serving  it,  turn  the  stewed  raisins  and  some  evaporated 
milk  from  a  can.  The  milk  gives  the  same  creamy,  long-cooked 
flavor  that  is  liked  in  rice  baked  a  long  time  in  fresh  dairy  milk, 
and  often  called  "  Poor  Man's  Pudding." 

BAKED   INDIAN   PUDDING 

This  recipe  has  been  handed  down  from  the  days  of  the 
early  settlement  of  this  country.  The  recipe  was  used  for  pud- 
dings baked  in  the  big  brick  oven  of  a  farmhouse  in  New  Bed- 
ford, Mass.  The  land  on  which  the  house  stood  was  purchased 
of  the  Indians.  The  original  deed  given  by  the  Indians  is  still 
in  the  possession  of  the  family. 

1  quart  scalded  milk  2  cups  molasses 

1  quart  cold  milk  Small  piece  butter 

1  pint  white  Rhode  Island  meal  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Stir  meal  into  scalded  milk  (stir  in  slowly  to  keep  free  from 
lumps);  add  molasses,  butter,  and  salt;  stir  in  the  cold  milk. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  at  least  4  hours.  Stir  occasionally  while 
in  the  oven. 

LOGANBERRY  SPONGE 

Soften  f  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatine  in  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  \  cup  of  hot  Loganberry 
juice;  add  f  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  ^  cup  of 
cold  Loganberry  juice.  Stir  over  cold  water  until  beginning  to 
stiffen.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  firm,  and  grad- 
ually beat  the  two  mixtures  together;  continue  to  beat  until 
the  mixture  will  hold  Its  shape.  Put  by  spoonfuls  into  glass  cups 
and  pipe  unsweetened  whipped  cream  above. 

RHUBARB   BAKED   WITH   RAISINS 

Peel  the  rhubarb  or  not,  as  desired,  and  cut  in  half-inch 
slices.  For  a  pound  of  rhubarb  take  |  a  cup  of  raisins,  ^  cup  of 
sugar,  and  \  cup  of  corn-syrup  or  honey.  Use  seedless,  sul- 
tana or  large  plump  table  raisins.  Remove  the  seeds  from  the 
latter  if  objectionable.  Cover  the  raisins  with  boiling  water  and 
let  cook  until  the  pulp  is  tender  and  the  water  is  evaporated  to 


Economical  Dessert  Dishes  47 

two  or  three  spoonfuls.  Sprinkle  the  rhubarb,  raisins,  sugar, 
and  syrup  in  a  baking  dish  in  layers,  and  let  cook  in  the  oven 
or  on  top  of  the  range  until  the  rhubarb  is  tender  but  not  bro- 
ken.    For  a  change,  use  prunes  instead  of  raisins. 

REBECCA  PUDDING 

1  quart  milk  3  egg-whites 

h  cup  cornstarch  1  teaspoonful  salt 

J  cup  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  orange  extract 

Mix  enough  cold  milk  with  the  cornstarch  to  put  it  into  a 
condition  to  pour.  Scald  the  rest  of  the  milk,  stir  in  the  corn- 
starch; continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens;  cover  and 
let  cook  15  minutes;  add  the  salt  and  sugar  and  fold  in  the  eggs 
beaten  very  light.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  to  cook  the  egg,  beat 
in  the  extract,  and  turn  into  a  mold.  Serve  cold  with  canned 
fruit  or  sugar  and  cream. 

BAKED   HONEY   CUSTARD 

(To  serve  four) 

2  eggs  i  cup  honey 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  cups  milk 

Beat  the  eggs;  add  the  salt,  honey  and  milk,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Butter  four  glass  or  earthen  cooking  cups  and  dredge 
the  butter  with  sugar;  pour  in  the  mixture.  Set  into  a  tin  dish 
on  several  folds  of  paper;  surround  the  cups  with  boiling  water; 
let  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm  in  the  center.  The  water 
should  not  boil  during  the  baking.  Serve,  cold,  in  the  cups. 
For  a  firmer  custard  add  two  additional  egg-yolks.  Maple 
syrup  or  sugar  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  honey. 

RICE  FLOUR  FLUMMERY 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  cup  rice  flour  A  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  or 

2  cup  cold  milk  Piece  of  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon 
I  teaspoonful  salt  1  egg-white,  if  desired 

Stir  the  rice  flour,  salt,  and  sugar  with  the  cold  milk;  dilute 
with  part  of  the  hot  milk,  and  when  evenly  mixed  return  the 
whole  to  the  rest  of  the  hot  milk  and  stir  and  cook  until  thick 
and  smooth.  The  cinnamon  or  lemon  rind  should  be  put  into 
the  milk  when  it  is  set  over  the  fire  and  removed  before  the  flour 
is  stirred  in.  Let  cook  20  minutes.  Beat  in  the  egg  white, 
beaten  very  light,  and  turn  into  a  mold.  Eat  cold  with  fruit 
jelly,  canned  fruit,  custard,  or  sugar  and  top  milk. 


48  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

MAPLE- SYRUP  RICE  PUDDING 

Blanch  ^  cup  of  rice  and  turn  into  a  pudding  dish;  add  f 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  |  cup  of  maple  syrup,  and  3  cups  of  milk. 
Let  cook  in  a  slow  oven  1  hour  or  longer.  When  done,  the  rice 
should  be  tender  and  the  milk  thickened  somewhat.  Stir  several 
times  during  the  first  of  the  cooking. 

RICE-AND-TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

Mix  together  ^  cup  each,  of  rice  and  tapioca,  j  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  1  cup  of  raisins  seeded,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  and  f  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  2  quarts  of  milk.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  in  a  very  moderate  oven,  until  the 
rice  is  tender  (3  or  4  hours).     Stir  several  times  while  cooking. 

CONSERVATION   CUSTARD 

Scald  2  cups  of  milk.  Mix  1  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  with 
1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk; 
continue  to  stir  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then  cover  and  let  cook 
15  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs; 
add  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  syrup,  and  beat  again;  then  stir  and  cook  in 
the  hot  milk  until  the  egg  thickens  the  mixture.  Strain  into  a 
cold  dish.  Flavor,  if  desired.  Serve  cold.  This  will  fill  five 
glass  sherbet  cups.  Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  Prune  Whip 
(will  serve  two)  or  add,  beaten  light,  to  cornstarch  blancmange, 
when  five  may  be  served. 

APPLES  BAKED  INDIVIDUALLY 

Select  apples  of  a  size  suitable  for  cooking  in  individual 
dishes  (cups).  Glass  or  earthenware  are  the  most  satisfactory. 
Cut  the  apples  in  quarters  and  remove  all  the  cores.  Set  the 
apples  in  the  cups  to  simulate  a  whole  apple.  Fill  the  open  cen- 
ter with  pieces  of  fig,  dates  or  chopped  raisins.  Add  to  each 
cup  1  tablespoonful  of  water.  Do  not  remove  the  skin  from  the 
apples.  Let  bake  until  done.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish,  either 
hot  or  cold. 

BAKED  BANANAS,  BELGIAN   STYLE 

Remove  the  peel  from  6  or  8  small  bananas;  fruit  from  the 
top  of  the  bunch  as  it  hangs  in  the  fruit  store  is  the  best. 
Scrape  each  banana  to  remove  all  coarse  threads,  and  lay  them, 
side  by  side,  in  a  baking  dish  suitable  for  the  table.  Grate  over 
them  the  rind  of  an  orange  and  half  a  lemon;   mix  together  the 


Economical  Dessert  Dishes  49 

juice  of  the  half  lemon,  the  orange,  and  \  cup  of  sugar,  and  pour 
over  the  bananas;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  soft  throughout. 
Serve  from  the  baking  dish  or  from  individual  dishes.  One 
banana  constitutes  a  service. 

BANANA  CONES 

For  each  two  persons  use  2  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake,  1 
large  or  2  small  bananas,  4  level  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  3 
level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  |  cup  of  boiling  water  and  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  |  a  lemon.  Shape  the  slices  of  cake  sym- 
metrically, in  rounds,  squares  or  ovals.  Set  them  on  serving 
plates.  Peel  and  scrape  the  bananas,  cut  the  pulp  into  cubes, 
pour  on  the  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  stand  one  minute. 
Skim  the  pieces  of  banana  to  the  cake,  piling  in  cone  shape. 
Sift  together  the  cornstarch  and  sugar;  add  a  few  grains  of  salt, 
pour  on  the  lemon  juice  and  the  liquid  in  which  the  bananas 
were  steamed  and  stir  until  boiling;  let  simmer  10  minutes, 
then  use  to  coat  the  bananas.  Serve  hot  or  cold,  but  preferably 
hot. 

BANANA  SPONGE 

\  package  gelatine  f  cup  sugar 

\  cup  cold  water  Juice  1  lemon 

1  cup  banana  pulp  (3  to  4  bananas)  3  egg-whites 

Soften  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water;  peel  and  scrape  ripe 
bananas  and  press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  or  ricer;  heat  the 
cup  of  banana  pulp  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  softened  gela- 
tine, the  sugar  and  lemon  juice;  stir  over  ice  water  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  fold  in  the  egg-whites  beaten 
dry.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  To  serve  cold,  mold  in  cups.  Serve 
at  the  same  time  top  milk  and  sugar  or  a  custard  made  of  the 
egg-yolks  and  a  pint  of  milk. 

.   LEMON  JELLY  AND   SLICED  BANANAS 

A  simple  dessert  may  be  made  by  molding  lemon  jelly  in  a 
thin  sheet.  Cut  the  jelly  in  cubes  with  a  knife  wet  in  hot  water. 
Serve  the  cubes  in  the  center  of  a  dish  with  sliced  bananas  around 
them.  Pour  over  the  whole,  conservation  custard  (page  48) 
or  serve  with  whole  milk  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of  sugar. 

BANANA  SAUTE 

Peel  the  bananas,  and  scrape  to  remove  coarse  threads. 
Cut  each  pulp  in  halves  crosswise,  then  lengthwise,  to  make  four 


50  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

pieces  of  each  banana.  Pat  both  sides  of  each  piece  in  barley 
or  corn  flour,  then  set  to  cook  in  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
hot  fat.  When  browned  delicately  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown 
the  other  side.  Keep  the  slices  light  in  color  and  do  not  cook 
too  long.  Serve  at  any  meal.  They  are  particularly  good  with 
bacon,  chops,  hash,  cutlets,  or  croquettes. 

BANANAS  BAKED  FOR  A  VEGETABLE 

Pull  down  a  section  of  a  banana  skin,  and  loosen  the  pulp 
from  the  rest  of  the  skin;  remove  all  coarse  threads,  then  re- 
place the  pulp  in  the  skin.  Bake  in  an  agate  pan  in  a  quick 
oven  until  soft;  remove  from  the  skins  and  serve  at  once. 

BAKED   BANANAS,   SULTANA  SAUCE 

f  cup  sultana  raisins  1  teaspoonful  butter 

1  cup  or  more  boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
5  cup  sugar  §  cup  corn  syrup 

2  teaspoonfuls  or  more  cornstarch  8  bananas 

Pull  down  a  section  of  a  banana  skin,  then  loosen  the  pulp 
from  the  rest  of  the  skin;  remove  all  coarse  threads  and  replace 
the  fruit  in  its  original  position  in  the  skin.  Set  the  bananas  in 
an  agate  pan  into  the  oven  to  cook  until  the  skin  is  blackened 
and  the  pulp  is  soft.  The  length  of  time  needed  will  depend  on 
the  heat  of  the  oven,  probably  about  20  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  At  least  an  hour  before  serving  set  the  cleaned  raisins 
to  cook  in  the  boiling  water,  adding  water  as  needed.  Mix  and 
sift  together  the  sugar  and  cornstarch,  and  stir  these  through 
the  raisins  and  water;  stir  until  boiling,  then  let  simmer  ten 
minutes  and  add  the  butter  and  flavoring.  Remove  the  bananas 
from  the  skin  to  a  hot  plate  (they  may  be  coiled  in  a  half  circle). 
Pour  over  the  sauce  and  serve  at  once.  These  may  be  used  as 
a  sweet  entree  with  meats  or  as  a  dessert  dish. 

HAWLEY'S  MOLASSES  CANDY 

Boil  1|  cups  of  molasses  and  f  cup  of  brown  sugar  to  about 
250°  F.  (hard  ball,  or  brittle  when  tested  in  cold  water) ;  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  stir  and  boil  to  about  260°  F.,  then 
stir  in  |  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  \  tablespoonful  of  water; 
stir  until  the  frothing  ceases,  then  pour  into  a  buttered  pan. 
Pull  over  a  hook  until  light  colored,  then  cut  in  small  pieces 
with  a  pair  of  scissors. 


Economical  Dessert  Dishes  51 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 

Boil  1^  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  |  cup  of  Karo  and  |  cup  of 
water  to  about  270°  F.,  or  until  brittle  in  cold  water;  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  ^  pound  of  small,  raw  (Spanish) 
peanuts  (blanched  or  not,  as  desired).  Stir  and  cook  the  pea- 
nuts in  the  syrup  until  they  are  thoroughly  cooked;  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and 
stir  vigorously.  When  the  mixture  is  through  foaming,  turn  it 
on  an  oiled  marble  or  platter,  let  cool  somewhat,  then  turn  with 
a  spatula  and  pull  into  as  thin  a  sheet  as  possible. 

STUFFED  DATES 

Cover  the  dates  with  boiling  water,  stir  with  a  silver-plated 
fork,  then  skim  to  colander;  spread  on  agate  plates,  then  set 
into  the  oven  to  dry  off  a  little.  Watch  carefully  and  remove 
after  one  or  two  minutes,  open  on  one  side,  remove  the  seed,  fill 
its  place  with  a  blanched  almond,  browned  in  the  oven,  or  with 
a  piece  of  candied  ginger,  half  a  marshmallow  or  one-fourth  an 
English  walnut-meat;  press  the  date  over  the  filling,  then  roll 
in  granulated  sugar. 

Or,  stuff  with  cream  or  neufchatel  cheese  and  omit  the  sugar. 

STUFFED   PRUNES 

The  stones  may  be  removed  from  carefully  cooked  (not 
overcooked)  prunes  and  the  prunes  stuffed  in  any  of  the  ways 
mentioned  for  dates.  Prunes  stuffed  with  ginger  and  nuts,  with 
top  of  milk,  makes  a  good  dessert. 

CHOCOLATE-COATED  ALMONDS 

Shave,  fine,  ^  pound  of  "  Dot  "  chocolate,  put  it  into  a 
very  small  double  boiler,  and  beat  constantly  while  slowly  melt- 
ing the  chocolate.  The  water  around  the  chocolate  should  be 
considerably  below  the  boiling  point.  Drop  in  the  almonds, 
one  at  a  time,  press  below  the  surface  of  the  chocolate,  then  lift 
out  and  drop  on  to  a  piece  of  table  oilcloth.  If  the  chocolate 
is  of  the  right  temperature,  it  will  not  run  from  the  nut  and  will 
hold  the  shape  given  it  by  the  dipper.  If  too  warm,  beat  until 
the  right  temperature  is  secured. 


52  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

CHOCOLATE-COATED   OYSTERETTES 

Brush  any  stray  crumbs  from  the  little  crackers  and  drop, 
one  by  one,  into  "  Dot  "  chocolate,  shaved  fine  and  melted  at  a 
low  temperature;  cover  completely  and  lift  up  and  drop  on  to 
a  piece  of  table  oilcloth. 

CHOCOLATE  PEANUT  CLUSTERS 

Drop  three  fresh-roasted  peanuts  into  melted  "  Dot " 
chocolate,  lift  one  to  a  piece  of  table  oilcloth,  set  the  second  near 
the  first  and  the  third  above  and  on  the  other  two.  When 
chilled  completely,  the  three  nuts  will  be  securely  fastened  to- 
gether. Add  nothing  (neither  sugar  nor  flavoring)  to  the  choco- 
late. 


CAKE   AND   PASTRY 


WHEATLESS   AND    NEAR   WHEATLESS  —  SUGARLESS   AND    NEAR 

SUGARLESS 


WAR  CAKE 

(Boston  Educational  and  Industrial  Union) 

2  cups  brown  sugar  3  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

2|  cups  hot  water  §  teaspoonful  cloves 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard,  drippings,  or  butter  |  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

I  pound  seedless  raisins  I5  teaspoonfuls  soda 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2\  cups  flour 

Boil  all  ingredients,  except  the  soda  and  flour,  5  minutes. 
Let  chill.  When  cold  add  1^  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  and  2^  cups 
flour  sifted  together.  Bake  in  two  loaves  in  moderate  size 
bread  pans  1  hour,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LEMON  HONEY  CAKES 

Heat  1  cup  of  honey  to  the  boiling  point;  add  2\  table- 
spoonfuls  of  shortening  and  let  cool.  When  cold  stir  in  1^ 
cups  of  flour  and  set  aside  overnight.  When  ready  to  bake  add 
the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  1^  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice, 
\  cup  of  very  fine-chopped  blanched  almonds  and  \  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  of  water.  Beat  all  together 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  small,  round,  cup-cake  pans,  about  20 
minutes. 


Cake  and  Pastry  53 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE,   CONSERVATION  FROSTmO 

5  cup  shortening  2  cups  barley  flour 

I5  cups  sifted  brown  sugar  \  cup  rice  flour 

2  egg-yolks,  beaten  light  5  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

4  ounces  chocolate,  melted  \  teaspoonful  cloves 

5  cup  sifted  brown  sugar  5  teaspoonful  salt 
5  cup  boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  soda 

^  cup  thick  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

2  egg-whites,  beaten  very  light 

Cream  the  shortening,  beat  half  the  first  quantity  of  sugar 
into  the  shortening,  the  other  half  into  the  yolks,  and  beat  the 
two  together;  to  the  melted  chocolate  add  the  half  cup  of  sugar 
and  the  boiling  water  and  stir  until  well  mixed ;  add  to  the  first 
mixture  with  the  sour  milk;  add  the  flour  sifted  with  the  other 
dry  ingredients;  beat  in  the  egg-whites;  bake  in  three  layer 
cake  pans;    put  together  with 

CONSERVATION  FROSTING 

f  cup  maple  syrup  1  white  of  egg 

1  tablespoonful  corn  syrup 

Put  the  ingredients  into  a  small  double  boiler.  The  water 
should  be  boiling  rapidly ;  beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  7  minutes. 


AN    INEXPENSIVE   DARK    CHOCOLATE   CAKE 

1  egg-yolk  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  shortening 

1  cup  sugar  5  cup  water 

1  rounding  teaspoonful  baking  powder]  stirred  in  1  ^ 

1  scant  teaspoonful  soda  J     cups  flour 

Melt  2  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate  in  |  cup  of  water 
over  the  teakettle;  stir  until  it  thickens  like  custard.  While 
hot  add  to  the  cake  mixture.  Flavor  with  ^  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla. 

Bake  in  loaf,  layer,  or  cup-cake  tins. 

QUICK  CHOCOLATE   CAKES 

2  squares  chocolate  |  cup  sugar 

5  cup  sugar  |  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

f  cup  milk  1  teaspoonful  soda 

2  egg-yolks  §  teaspoonful  salt 

I  cup  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  nuts 

3  tablespoonfuls  shortening  1  tablespoonful  granulated  sugar 
1§  cups  barley  flour 


54  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Heat  the  chocolate,  first  measure  of  sugar  and  milk  in  a 
double  boiler;  in  this  stir  and  cook  the  yolks,  and  milk  until 
the  mixture  thickens;  add  the  shortening  and  beat  in  the  other 
ingredients  save  the  last  two.  Turn  into  cup-cake  tins  and 
sprinkle  the  sugar  and  nuts  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
One-fourth  a  cup  of  potato  or  corn  flour  may  replace  the  half- 
cup  of  barley  flour;  and  half  a  cup  of  maple  or  other  syrup  a 
half  cup  of  the  sugar. 

CHOU  PASTE  FOR  CREAM  CAKES  AND  ECLAIRS  I 

5  cup  butter  or  substitute  |  cup  corn  flour 

1  cup  boiling  water  3  large  eggs 

I  cup  barley  flour 

Crisco  or  clarified  chicken  fat  are  choice  substitutes  for 
butter.  One  fourth  cup  of  rice  or  potato  flour  may  replace 
the  corn  flour.  Let  the  fat  and  water  boil  in  a  saucepan;  then 
quickly  sift  in  the  flour,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste  that  leaves 
the  sides  of  the  saucepan.  Turn  the  paste  at  once  into  a  bowl, 
break  in  1  egg  and  beat  it  into  the  mixture  thoroughly;  when 
the  paste  is  smooth  beat  in  another  egg,  and  so  continue  until 
all  the  eggs  are  added.  Vigorous  beating  throughout  the  whole 
time  is  essential.  The  finished  paste  should  be  warm,  light, 
and  soft,  but  not  soft  enough  to  run;  it  should  hold  its  shape 
when  set  into  the  baking  pan  with  teaspoons  or  pastry  bag  and 
tube. 

ECLAIRS 

Shape  the  paste  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet  in  strips  about 
four  inches  long  and  one  inch  wide.  Bake  in  an  oven  hot  on  the 
bottom  about  25  minutes.  Chou  paste  is  baked  when  it  feels 
light  on  being  lifted  in  the  hand ;  it  often  slides  on  the  pan  when 
baked.  Open  at  one  side  and  insert  a  teaspoonful  of  English 
cream.     Cover  the  smooth  side  with  a  chocolate  frosting. 

ENGLISH  CREAM  FOR  ECLAIRS,  CREAM  PIE,  ETC. 

2  cups  milk  2  eggs  or  4  yolks 

i  cup  barley  flour  |  cup  sugar 

^  cup  sugar  I  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  orange  extract 

\  teaspoonful  salt 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  sift  together  several  times 
the  flour,  sugar,  and  salt;  dilute  with  a  little  of  the  hot  milk; 
mix  thoroughly,  then  stir  into  the  rest  of  the  hot  milk;  continue 
to  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens,  then  cover  and  let  cook  ten 
minutes.     Beat  the  eggs;  beat  in  the  sugar  and  stir  into  the 


Cake  and  Pastry  55 

hot  mixture;  stir  and  cook  three  or  four  minutes  or  until  the  egg 
is  "  set."     When  cooled  somewhat  add  the  flavoring  and  use. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

1  square  chocolate  Confectioner's  sugar  as  needed 

3  tablespoonfuls  honey  |  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients. 
BUCKWHEAT  COOKIES 

I  cup  shortening  \\  cups  buckwheat  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

2  eggs,  beaten  light 

Mix  in  the  order  enumerated,  knead  slightly,  roll  and  cut 
in  shapes.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  With  vegetable  oil  cut  down 
the  shortening  about  two  tablespoonfuls.  The  sugar  also  may 
be  cut  down  somewhat.  A  little  sugar  dredged  on  the  cakes 
before  baking  improves  the  appearance,  but  is  an  unnecessary 
addition. 

PLAIN  BUCKWHEAT  COOKIES 

I  cup  shortening  2|  cups  buckwheat  flour 

1  cup  sugar  5  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  |  teaspoonful  salt 
I  cup  milk 

Mix  as  usual,  adding  the  milk,  alternately,  with  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt.  The  appearance  of  both  varieties  of 
cookies  is  improved  by  sifting  a  few  grains  of  granulated  sugar 
over  them  after  they  are  set  in  the  tins. 

POTATO   COOKIES 

1  cup  shortening  |  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 
2  eggs,  beaten  light  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoonful  salt  Barley  and  rice  flour  for  dough 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes 

Mix  in  the  order  enumerated,  using  about  half  as  much 
rice  flour  as  barley  flour.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  shapes,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

POTATO  DOUGHNUTS 

2\  cups  wheat  flour  3  eggs,  beaten  light 

2\  cups  barley  flour  1  cup  sugar 

I  teaspoonful  soda  f  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  cup  mashed  potato 

4  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder      1  tablespoonful  butter  substitute 
J  teaspoonful  mace 


56  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  into  a  bowl.  To  the  eggs,  add 
the  sugar,  sour  milk,  potato  and  fat,  and  mix  with  the  dry  in- 
gredients to  a  soft  dough.  Roll  into  a  sheet,  cut  into  rounds 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

MAPLE -SYRUP  DROP  COOKIES 

i  cup  shortening  |  cup  rice  flour 

f  cup  maple  syrup  1|  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg,  beaten  light  |  teaspoonful  soda 

2  tablespoonfuls  sour  cream  or  buttermilk  f  teaspoonful  salt 

1|  cups  barley  flour  ^  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  maple  syrup,  egg,  cream  or 
milk.  Sift  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder,  soda,  salt  and 
nutmeg,  and  stir  into  the  first  mixture.  With  a  teaspoon  drop 
and  shape  the  dough  on  greased  tins.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

RYE   OR  BARLEY  DROP  MOLASSES  COOKIES 

cup  shortening  1  cup  rye  or  barley  flour 

cup  sugar  ^  cup  wheat  flour 

I  cup  molasses  |  teaspoonful  salt 

egg,  beaten  light  1  teaspoonful  soda 

^  cup  thick  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

I  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

Cream  the  shortening,  beat  in  the  sugar,  molasses,  egg,  and 
milk.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls on  a  greased  pan.  Shape  into  smooth  rounds.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

f  cup  peanut  butter  |  cup  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  substitute  1  cup  rye  or  barley  flour 

5  cup  granulated  sugar  1  cup  wheat  flour 

f  cup  corn  syrup  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg,  beaten  light  |  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  shortening;  beat  in  the  sugar  and  syrup;  add 
the  egg  and  milk,  then  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  sifted 
together,  and  mix  to  a  dough;  more  flour  may  be  required. 
Knead  part  at  a  time  to  get  into  shape;  roll  into  a  sheet  and  cut 
into  rounds.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MAPLE -SYRUP  NUT  CAKE 

5  cup  shortening  (Crisco  is  good)  2  cups  wheat  flour 

I  cup  corn  syrup  |  cup  rye  or  barley  flour 

1  cup  maple  syrup  f  teaspoonful  soda 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
5  cup  hot  water  f  teaspoonful  ginger 


Cake  and  Pastry  57 

Cream  the  shortening;  beat  in  the  syrup  gradually,  and 
then  the  eggs.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  into  a  pan  and  add 
them  alternately  with  the  water.  Bake  in  a  loaf  50  minutes, 
or  25  minutes  in  a  sheet.  Cover  with  boiled  frosting  made  of 
I  cup  of  maple  syrup,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn  syrup,  1  egg- 
white,  I  cup  of  nut  meats. 

CORN-FLAKE   WAFERS 

Beat  2  eggs  hght;  add  \  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  corn  syrup,  2f 
cups  of  corn  flakes,  and  1  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  and  mix  all 
together  thoroughly.  Shape  in  rounds,  a  generous  teaspoonful 
in  each,  on  an  inverted  buttered  tin.  Bake  about  20  minutes 
in  a  slow  oven.     Mapl-flake  may  also  be  used. 

OATMEAL  FRUIT  MACAROONS 

\  cup  raisins  or  dates  in  bits  \  cup  granulated  sugar 

2$  cups  rolled  oats  2  tablespoonfuls  corn  syrup 

i  teaspoonful  salt  1  tablespoonful  melted  shortening 

2  eggs,  beaten  light 

Chop  or  cut  fine  the  fruit,  mix  with  the  oats  and  salt.  Beat 
the  sugar,  syrup,  and  shortening  into  the  eggs.  Combine  the 
two  mixtures.  Shape  by  teaspoonfuls  in  compact  rounds  on  a 
greased  baking  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  The  recipe 
makes  about  thirty-six  macaroons. 

GOLDEN  DROP  CAKES 

\  cup  shortening  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

5  cup  maple  or  corn  syrup  1  cup  barley  flour 

§  cup  sugar  1  cup  corn  flour  (yellow) 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  |  cup  wheat  flour 

J  cup  sweet  milk  §  teaspoonful  mace  or  nutmeg 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  shortening;  gradually  add  the  syrup  and  sugar, 
then  the  eggs  and  milk,  and,  lastly,  the  flour  sifted  with  the  salt, 
baking  powder  and  spice.  Mix  and  drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  a 
greased  pan.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHOCOLATE   COOKIES 

2  cup  shortening  2  cups  barley  flour 
\  cup  sugar  5  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cup  maple  or  corn  syrup  |  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

2  ounces  chocolate,  melted  \  teaspoonful  cloves 

1  egg,  well  beaten  \  teaspoonful  soda 

2  tablespoonfuls  milk  More  flour  if  needed 


58  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

Cream  the  shortening,  beat  in  the  sugar,  syrup,  chocolate, 
egg,  and  milk;  stir  in  the  dry  ingredients,  sifted  together;  chili 
in  the  refrigerator;  roll  in  a  thin  sheet,  cut  in  cakes,  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

BARLEY-AND-WHEAT  PASTRY  FOR  ONE  PIE 

f  cup  barley  flour  \  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

f  cup  wheat  flour  5  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

^  teaspoonful  salt  \  cup  cold  water  (nearly) 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  the 
Crisco  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  or  two  knives;  add  the  water, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  to  mix  to  a  stiff  paste. 

BARLEY-AND-RICE  FLOUR  PASTRY 

1  cup  barley  flour  |  teaspoonful  salt 
5  cup  rice  flour  |  cup  shortening 

2  teaspoonful  baking  powder  \  cup  cold  water  (about) 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt;  cut  in  the 
shortening;  then  adding  water,  a  little  at  a  time,  mix  with  a 
knife  to  a  paste  of  a  consistency  to  clean  the  mixing  bowl  of  all 
flour  or  paste.  Turn  on  a  board  lightly  dredged  with  flour,  to 
coat  the  surface  with  flour ;  then  use  as  desired.  This  is  enough 
paste  for  one  large  pie  and  two  or  three  tarts.  Clarified  chicken 
fat  makes  good  pastry. 

This  is  good  tasting  pastry.  It  is  handled,  or  rolled,  more 
easily  if  left  to  stand  overnight,  covered,  in  a  cool  place. 

POTATO   PASTRY 

I  cup  flour  5  cup  mashed  potato 

J  teaspoonful  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

5  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients,  and  combine  them  with 
the  potato.  Cut  in  the  fat  in  the  usual  way,  and  roll  out  the 
pastry.  This  recipe  makes  enough  for  a  one-crust  pie.  The 
crust  may  be  baked  before  the  filling  is  added. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE  PIE 

1  cup  cottage  cheese  Yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten 

I  cup  maple  syrup  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

\  cup  honey  Salt 

I  cup  milk  I  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Bake  the  pie  in  one 
crust.  Cool  it  slightly,  cover  it  with  meringue,  and  brown  it 
in  a  slow  oven. 


Cake  and  Pastry  59 

LEMON   CHEESE   PIE 

1  cup  cottage  cheese  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

§  cup  honey  or  |  cup  corn  syrup  2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch 

1  egg-yolk,  beaten  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
f  cup  milk 

Heat  the  milk,  add  the  sweetening  and  the  cornstarch 
mixed  together,  and  cook  the  mixture  until  it  is  thick,  stirring  it 
constantly;  cover  and  let  cook,  stirring  occasionally,  15  minutes. 
Add  the  egg  and  cook  until  the  egg  thickens.  Add  the  cheese, 
butter,  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a 
well-baked  crust;  cover  with  meringue  and  let  cook  in  a  slow 
oven  about  12  minutes. 

MERINGUE  FOR   CHEESE  PIES 

2  egg-whites,  beaten  very  light  1  teaspoonful  granulated  sugar 
4  tablespoonfuls  maple  syrup  or  honey 

Gradually  beat  the  syrup  or  honey  into  the  beaten  egg- 
whites.     Spread  over  the  pie;  dredge  over  the  granulated  sugar. 

SOUR  MILK  PIE 

1  cup  buttermilk  or  thick  clabbered  milk  f  cup  maple  syrup 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  mixed  with  4         2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

tablespoonfuls  cold  water  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  When  it  is  warm,  add 
the  cornstarch  mixed  with  cold  water.  Cook  the  mixture  until 
it  is  thick,  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Cook  the  mixture 
until  it  is  clear.  Turn  it  into  a  baked  crust,  cover  it  with 
meringue,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  15  minutes. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE 

Turn  thick,  sour  milk  into  a  bag  and  let  hang  to  drain.  In 
about  twelve  hours,  the  whey  will  have  drained  from  the  curd. 
Turn  the  curd  into  a  bowl.  To  each  pint,  add  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  |  cup  or  more  of  thick,  sweet  cream.  Mix  together 
thoroughly  and  press  into  an  earthen  bowl.  Set  aside  in  a  cool 
place.     When  ready  to  serve,  turn  from  the  bowl. 

This  cheese  is  much  better  when  made  without  heating  the 
milk  over  hot  water.  To  hasten  souring  let  the  milk  stand  in  a 
warm  place,  not  in  refrigerator. 


60  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

CANNING 


METHODS   OF  CANNING 

For  home  canning,  two  distinct  methods  of  procedure  are 
in  general  use:  (1)  Cooking  in  a  saucepan  and  then  transferring 
the  article  to  the  sterilized  cans,  and  (2)  cooking  the  product  in 
the  jar  in  which  it  is  to  be  stored. 

Bulky  foods,  like  spinach  and  beet  greens,  hard  fruits,  like 
apples  and  quinces,  and  foods  in  which  there  is  considerable 
waste,  as  beets,  are  canned  more  easily,  if  the  process  is,  at  least, 
begun  in  a  saucepan.  Berries,  peaches,  pears,  peas,  asparagus, 
carrots,  tomatoes,  and  string  beans  retain  their  flavor  better  if 
canned  in  the  receptacle  in  which  they  are  to  be  stored.  (Cold 
pack.) 

CANNING  WITH  A  SAUCEPAN 

In  canning  food  with  a  saucepan,  the  food,  prepared  as 
when  to  be  cooked  for  the  table,  is  cooked  until  tender.  Some 
time  before  the  food  is  set  to  cook,  the  jars,  covers,  and  all  uten- 
sils (as  spoons,  ladle,  and  funnel)  that  are  to  be  used,  are  set  into 
a  saucepan  of  cold  water  on  the  bottom  of  which  is  a  rack  or  many 
folds  of  clean  cloth;  the  jars  are  filled  with  water,  and  the  whole 
is  brought  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  kept  at  just  about 
this  point  for  ten  minutes  or  longer.  When  the  food  is  cooked 
and  is  actually  boiling,  turn  the  water  from  a  jar,  set  the  jar  on 
a  cloth,  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  folded,  near  the  saucepan, 
and  fill  it  with  the  hot  food;  dip  the  rubber  ring  (which  must 
be  new  and  pliable)  in  boiling  water  and  set  it  in  place;  take  a 
silver  knife  from  the  boiling  water  and  move  it  around  in  the 
jar  to  break  up  bubbles  of  air  that  may  be  present;  add  more 
boiling  liquid  to  fill  the  jar  to  overflow;  lift  the  cov^er  from  the 
boiling  water  without  touching  the  inside  of  it,  set  it  in  place 
fasten  securely,  and  lift  the  jar  to  a  board.  Do  not  let  a  draugh 
of  air  blow  on  the  hot  jar,  or  it  may  crack.  Store,  when  cold 
in  a  dark  place. 

CANNING    WITH    A    WASH-BOILER,    STEAM-CO  OKB;R, 

OR  CANNER 

A  canner  made  for  the  purpose  simplifies  the  process  of 
canning.     As  the  cooking  is  done  under  very  high  pressure,  the 


Canning  61 

time  required  is  materially  shortened.  The  work  is  carried  out 
in  the  same  manner  with  the  three  utensils  mentioned  above. 
Rinse  the  jars  in  boiling  water,  taking  care  to  heat  them  gradu- 
ally lest  they  break;  fill  the  jars  with  the  article  to  be  canned, 
then  set  on  the  rack;  put  the  lids  of  the  jars  beside  them  or  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove.  Cover  the  large  receptacle 
and  let  the  water  heat  quickly  to  a  boiling  point,  then  open  and 
fill  the  jars  to  overflow  with  salted,  boiling  water  or  boiling  syrup, 
as  is  required;  adjust  rubbers  and  covers,  fasten  down  wire, 
cover  the  receptacle  and  let  cook,  as  required,  then  seal  and  re- 
move to  a  board  out  of  all  draughts. 

SELECTION  AND  PREPARATION  OF  VEGETABLES  FOR 

CANNING 

Only  young,  tender  vegetables  may  be  canned  successfully. 
As  vegetables  mature,  the  sugar  in  composition  is  changed  to 
starch;  and  starch  is  not  sterilized  as  easily  as  is  sugar.  Let 
the  vegetables  be  freshly  gathered  and  crisp.  Too  much  at- 
tention cannot  be  given  to  the  point  of  having  vegetables  freshly 
gathered.  No  more  time  than  is  absolutely  necessary  for  prep- 
aration should  elapse  between  the  gathering  and  the  cooking. 
Peas,  gathered  and  shelled  the  night  before,  lose  much  of  their 
original  sweetness.  All  vegetables  are  prepared  for  cooking  in 
the  same  manner  as  those  to  be  cooked  for  the  table. 

BLANCHING 

Strong  vegetables  are  blanched  (cooked  a  few  minutes  in 
hot  water  and  rinsed  In  cold  water)  before  being  packed  in  the 
jars.  By  blanching,  vegetables  that  do  not  pack  easily  are 
softened  a  little  and  thus  fit  more  closely  in  a  jar.  The  skins  of 
peaches  and  tomatoes  are  easily  removed  after  these  articles 
have  been  dipped  an  instant  into  hot  and  then  into  cold  water. 
After  these  preliminaries  are  finished,  the  filled  jars  are  set  to 
cook  in  wash-boiler,  steam-cooker,  or  canner. 

POINTS  FOR  SUCCESSFUL  CANNING 

Success  in  canning  any  food  depends  (1)  on  the  thorough 
sterilization  of  all  utensils  used  in  the  process,  and  of  the  food 
itself  at  or  above  the  temperature  of  boiling  water,  and  (2)  on 
the  hermetical  (air-tight)  sealing  of  the  jars  or  cans. 


62  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

JARS   PARTIALLY   FILLED 

If  a  jar  be  full  of  sterilized  food  when  the  sterilized  cover 
is  set  in  place,  and  the  jar  be  closed  hermetically  so  that  no 
organisms  from  the  outside  may  enter,  the  food  will  keep. 

CANNING   WITHOUT   SUGAR 

Fruit  may  be  canned  just  as  successfully  without  as  with 
sugar.  However,  it  is  often  a  convenience  when  fruit  is  to  be 
used  as  a  sauce  or  relish  to  add  the  sugar  at  time  of  canning. 
Peaches  and  pears  are  not  improved  by  re-cooking,  and  should 
be  canned  with  sugar.  Apples  and  blueberries  will  give  better 
results  both  in  sauce  and  pies  if  canned  without  sugar,  and  the 
sugar  be  added  at  time  of  use. 

If  fruit  juice  extracted  for  jelly  be  canned  boiling  hot, 
jelly  may  be  made  up  when  it  is  required,  a  few  glasses  at  a  time, 
and  when  sugar  is  more  available  than  when  every  one  is  calling 
for  it. 

When  sugar  is  used  in  fruit  canning,  make  a  syrup  accord- 
ing to  the  following  formulae : 

SYRUP  FOR  CANNING   FRUIT 

(1)  Light  syrup,  for  canning  raspberries,  apples,  etc.:  4 
cups  water,  2  cups  sugar,  heat  just  enough  to  dissolve  the  sugar. 

(2)  Medium  syrup,  for  sweet  plums  and  cherries:  4  cups 
water,  3  cups  sugar;  heat  just  enough  to  dissolve  the  sugar. 

(3)  Thick  syrup,  for  peaches  and  pineapple:  4  cups  water, 
5  cups  sugar;   heat  just  enough  to  dissolve  the  sugar. 

(4)  Rich  syrup,  for  strawberries,  currants,  sour  cherries: 
4  cups  water,  5  cups  sugar;   boiled  to  soft-ball  degree. 

CANNED  PEACHES,  "  COLD  PACK  " 

Cut  the  peaches  in  halves,  pare,  and  remove  stones;  drop 
into  cold  water  as  prepared,  to  keep  from  discoloring.  Have 
the  jars  and  covers  sterilized,  fill  the  jars  with  peaches,  set  them 
in  place  in  the  canning  receptacle,  pour  in  the  hot  syrup  to  fill 
to  overflow,  adjust  the  rubbers  and  the  covers  taken  from  boil- 
ing water;  partially  clamp  and  let  cook  from  5  to  16  minutes 
according  to  the  style  of  cooker.  Using  a  wash-boiler  or  similar 
receptacle  let  boiling  water  cover  the  cans  to  the  depth  of  an 
inch  and  cook  15  minutes  after  the  water  boils  vigorously. 
Remove  from  the  water  and  fasten  securely. 


Canning  63 

CANNED   TOMATO   PUREE 

4  quarts  tomatoes  (in  pieces)  1  sweet  red  or  green  pepper 

1  large  onion  i  cup  parsley 

Chop  the  onion,  pepper,  and  parsley;  add  to  the  tomato, 
and  let  simmer  until  the  tomatoes  are  tender.  Press  through  a 
sieve  and  measure.  To  each  quart  of  puree  add  |  teaspoonful 
salt  and  |  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  let  simmer  to  the  consistency 
of  catsup,  stirring  constantly  meanwhile.  Pour,  boiling  hot,  into 
sterilized  cans,  filling  each  to  overflow;  adjust  the  rubber  rings 
dipped  in  boiling  water  and  the  sterilized  covers  and  tighten  the 
covers.     Set  aside  in  a  cool  place  when  cold. 

Use  for  soups  and  sauces. 

ORANGE  AND   DRIED-APRICOT  MARMALADE 

Take  3  oranges,  2  lemons  and  |  pound  of  dried  apricots. 
Cut  the  oranges  and  lemons  in  quarters,  and  then  slice  each 
quarter  as  thin  as  possible.  Let  the  apricots  soak  in  cold  water 
about  half  an  hour,  then  cut  with  scissors  in  lengthwise  shreds. 
Measure  the  fruit  and  allow  3  pints  of  cold  water  for  each  pint 
of  fruit.  Keep  the  apricots  apart  from  the  other  fruit,  as  it  will 
cook  more  quickly  than  the  oranges  and  lemons.  Let  the  fruit 
stand  in  the  water,  overnight.  Boil  the  oranges  and  lemons 
until  the  peel  is  tender,  then  add  the  apricots  and  water,  and 
cook  about  half  an  hour.  Allow  f  cup  of  sugar  or  honey  for  each 
cup  of  fruit  (brown  sugar  in  whole  or  part  may  be  used).  Heat 
the  fruit  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  sugar  or  honey  and  let 
cook  until  the  mixture  thickens  somewhat  (about  218°  F.  by 
the  sugar  thermometer),  then  store  in  sterilized  glasses.  This 
marmalade  will  not  form  a  rich  jelly,  but  is  attractive  in  flavor. 

CANNING  HARD   SWEET  CORN 

Sweet  corn  too  hard  for  eating  from  the  cob  may  be  canned 
successfully,  if  only  the  pulp  inside  the  hard  exterior  be  used. 
With  a  sharp  knife  score  the  kernels  down  through  each  row  on 
the  ear,  then  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  scrape  out  the  pulp 
and  leave  all  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  Use  this  pulp  in  filling  jars 
to  three-fourths  their  height;  let  cook  in  wash-boiler,  steamer, 
or  canner,  until  the  pulp  stops  puffing  or  swelling  after  being 
stirred  down.  Adjust  the  sterilized  rubber  rings  and  covers  and 
let  cook  about  1  hour.     Seal  as  usual. 


64  Economical  War-Time  Cook  Book 

CANNED   BEETS 

Wash  and  cook  the  beets  as  for  the  table;  drain,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  slip  off  the  skins;  pack  the  beets  in  sterile  jars, 
shaking  down  and  pressing  in  as  many  as  possible.  If  large, 
they  may  be  cut  in  slices;  but  small  beets  (two  inches  or  less  in 
diameter)  are  preferable.  Set  the  filled  jars  in  place  in  the 
canner  or  boiler,  fill  to  overflow  with  boiling  water,  adjust  the 
sterile  rubber  rings  and  the  covers,  and  let  cook  10  to  30  minutes 
after  boiling  begins;   then  fasten  the  covers. 

CANNED  VEGETABLE    SOUP 

1  cup  small  Lima  beans  (green)  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  cup  cubes  carrot  1  small  piece  bay  leaf 

1  cup  slices  celery  1  small  piece  mace 

1  cup  cubes  kohl-rabi  4  coriander  seeds 

I  cup  rice  3  branches  parsley 

1  quart  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 
1  onion,  chopped 

This  should  make  two  quarts  of  soup.  Cook  the  beans, 
carrot,  celery,  kohl-rabi,  and  rice  separately,  until  tender. 
Use  only  enough  water  to  cover.  Cut  the  tomatoes  in  bits,  add 
the  other  ingredients,  save  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  water  in 
which  the  various  vegetables  were  cooked  and  let  simmer  20 
minutes.  Strain,  add  the  cooked  vegetables,  and  for  each  quart 
1  teaspoonful  salt  and  \  teaspoonful  or  less  of  pepper,  and  heat 
to  the  boiling  point.  Turn  boiling  hot  into  sterilized  jars,  fill- 
ing to  overflow.  Adjust  sterilized  rubber  ring  and  the  cover, 
and  seal  as  in  all  canning.  The  vegetables  must  be  young  and 
tender. 

CANNED   CHICKEN 

Cook  the  chicken  or  fowl  until  tender.  Remove  meat  from 
bones  and  skin;  pack  in  sterilized  jars.  Boil  the  liquid  until 
reduced  about  one  half,  strain  and  pour  over  the  chicken,  filling 
the  jar  to  overflow;  adjust  cover  according  to  cold  pack  method 
and  sterilize  (boil)  1  hour  in  hot-v/ater  bath. 


