Vp^^    ‚Ä¢^h^:    '^^^ 


L^V^. 


<>   'o,-;*    .0 


V       >^  V 


^.  *'iVi*  .A  <*    -?.T*     .0 


-0*    ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢!.‚Ä¢‚ô¶    "'b  A- 


-*':.-^'.% 


*' 


S*    jP^*..  ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 


*' 


ev    * 


^       .^-^        ^ 


^‚Ä¢i^v%  ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢^\<^\.v.''-^c 


<^^^^^-*  aO'         V-. 


‚Ä¢      ^. 


is  AT        ‚ô¶ 


>^..^llf* 


4,v    ..j:,^'*    <>^ 


¬´o 


^'-'^ff^V  "%/^^-V"   V^^^V 

*    ^o    <^    ‚ô¶fins*     >c.  4j^    ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢(CvkTA.*    >***¬ª   c^    ‚ô¶1 


"^^-Z  .*^:  \/  .*Jfe'  X.^"  4 


)*     ‚Ä¢-lliw'-^ 


,*.... 


'^V^^v  %!>^**V*  *v*^^v 


ELEMENTS  OF  THE 
THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


'hj2)<:^o 


ELEMENTS 


THEORY   AND    PRACTICE    OF 


COOKERY 


A    TEXT-BOOK   OF  HOUSEHOLD   SCIENCE   FOR 
USE  IN  SCHOOLS 


BY 


MARY   E.   WILLIAMS 

SUPERVISOR   OF   COOKERY    IN   THE    PUBLIC    SCHOOLS   OF  THE 

BOROUGHS    OF   MANHATTAN    AND   THE   BRONX 

NEW   YORK   CITY 

AND 

KATHARINE   ROLSTON   FISHER 

FORMERLY   TEACHER   OF   COOKERY   IN   THESE   SCHOOLS 


THE    MACMILLAN   COMPANY 

LONDON:   MACMILLAN  &  CO.,  Ltd. 
1901 


All  rights  reserved 


THE    LIBRARY   OF 
CONGRUSS, 

Two    Co-Its     RiCClVED 

MAK.  5     1901 

Copyright  entry 

CLASS  (XxXc.   No. 

COPY   B. 


^t 


Copyright,  1901, 
Bt  the   MACMILLAN  COMPANY. 


Nartsaoli  ^ress 

J.  S.  Gushing  k.  Co.  ‚Äî  Berwick  &  Smith 
Norwood  Masi.  U.S.A. 


PLATE  I. 


Breakfast  Table  set  for  Four  Persons. 


The  Invalid's  Tray, 


PREFACE 

This  text-book  has  been  prepared  at  the  earnest 
request  of  the  teachers  of  cookery  in  the  public  schools 
of  New  York  City,  and  in  response  to  the  many  letters 
that  have  come  to  the  supervisor  from  all  parts  of  the 
co,untry  asking  for  information  about  the  instruction 
given  in  this  branch  of  household  science. 

American  text-books  for  beginners  in  cookery  are 
few.  We  believe  that  "  The  Elements  of  the  Theory 
and  Practice  of  Cookery "  is  the  first  book  of  this 
order  to  combine  the  features  of  a  working  guide  for 
the  kitchen  laboratory  with  those  of  a  hand-book  for 
study  and  reference. 

We  have  reason  to  feel,  therefore,  that  in  offering 
it  for  the  use  of  young  students  we  are  supplying  a 
want.  This  book  aims  to  supplement  the  instruction 
of  the  teacher,  and  to  aid  in  unifying  the  work  of 
classes  and  schools.  It  is  planned  to  save  time  and 
labor  for  teacher  and  pupils,  and,  incidentally,  to  in- 
sure correctness  in  language  and  content  by  furnishing 
recipes  and  other  matter  that  have  ordinarily  to  be 
copied  or  written  from  dictation. 


vi  PREFACE 

All  who  arB  working  to  improve  the  home,  whether 
along  the  line  of  home  economics,  household  science, 
temperance,  or  in  other  ways,  recognize  that  the  hope 
of  this  improvement  depends  in  great  measure  upon 
the  better  preparation  of  home-makers  for  their  duties. 
The  modern  school  of  domestic  science  holds  that  an 
essential  part  of  this  preparation  is  instruction  in  the 
principles  of  science  which  underlie  the  proper  perform- 
ance of  household  labor,  and  in  training  that  will  en- 
able the  student  to  apply  these  principles.  The  day  is 
past  for  the  study  of  any  science  as  an  accomplishment. 
The  schoolboy  has  long  known  that  chemistry  w^ould 
be  useful  to  him  should  he  become  a  manufacturer,  an 
engineer,  or  a  physician.  The  schoolgirl  is  now  being 
led  to  see  as  clearly  its  use  to  her  in  the  business  of 
housekeeping. 

Keeping  in  view  this  idea  of  the  function  of  the 
school-kitchen,  we  have  closely  interwoven  theory  and 
practice  in  this  text-book,  as  they  should  be  inter- 
woven in  actual  experience.  The  presentation  of  these 
two  aspects  of  the  subject  in  their  naturally  close  rela- 
tion is  the  surest  means  of  proving  to  those  who  doubt 
the  wisdom  of  teaching  cookery,  except  as  an  art,  that 
even  the  theoretical  side  of  domestic  science  is  of  prac- 
tical value.  It  should  operate  also  to  dispel  the  preju- 
dice of  those  other  persons  ‚Äî  if  any  such  there   still 


PREFACE  vii 

be  ‚Äî  who  hesitate  to  approve  the  introduction  of  cook- 
ery into  public  schools  for  fear  of  countenancing  the 
teaching  of  a  trade. 

We  send  forth  our  book  in  the  hope  that  it  may 
help,  at  least  a  little,  to  draw  into  closer  union  teachers 
and  students  of  household  science,  home-makers,  and 
all  who  are  interested  in  the  welfare  of  American 
homes. 

We  desire  to  thank  for  the  contribution  of  valuable 
suggestions,  information,  material,  or  all  of  these.  Pro- 
fessor Robert  W.  Hall,  of  the  New  York  University, 
Dr.  H.  W.  Wiley  and  Dr.  A.  C.  True,  of  the  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Mr.  Jonathan  D. 
Hyatt,  Principal  of  Public  School  85,  New  York  City, 
and,  particularly,  the  teachers  of  cookery  in  the  New 
York  public  schools. 


J 


NOTES   TO   TEACHERS 

The  plan  of  this  text-book  does  not  assume  the 
employment  of  any  one  particular  method  of  teaching 
cookery.  The  book  can  be  used  equally  well  whether 
the  pupils  work  individually  or  in  groups,  whether 
all  at  one  time  or  in  turn. 

Recipes  making  quantities  suitable  for  a  small  family 
are  given,  as  being  the  most  practicable  from  all  points 
of  view.  The  individual  recipe  is  not  adapted  to  home 
use,  nor  is  it  so  easy  to  multiply  it  as  it  is  to  divide 
the  ordinary  recipe  to  make  the  latter  meet  the  require- 
ments of  individual  practice. 

The  subject-matter  in  this  book  can  be  covered  in 
three  terms  (one  and  a  half  school  years)  by  classes 
of  girls  in  the  sixth  and  seventh  or  seventh  and  eighth 
years  of  school,  one  two-hour  lesson  being  given  each 
week. 

The  chapter  topics  are  taken  up  in  the  order  that 
experience  has  proven  to  be  for  most  classes  the  most 
natural  and  convenient  one.  The  progression  has  been 
carefully  worked  out,  as  a  glance  at  the  table  of  con- 


X  NOTES    TO    TEACHERS 

tents  will  show ;  and,  while  the  numerous  cross-refer- 
ences make  it  possible  to  depart  occasionally  from  this 
order,  it  is  believed  that  to  obtain  the  best  results  it 
should  be.  adhered  to  in  the  main.  Certain  portions 
of  the  text  are  printed  solid,  e.g.  Chapter  I,  Section  2, 
Paragraphs  25-31,  and  Section  3  of  Chapter  VI,  to 
indicate  that  they  may,  at  the  discretion  of  the  teacher, 
be  left  until  later  in  the  course,  without  interfering 
with  the  continuity  of  the  work. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  sections  of  a  chapter  are  not 
necessarily  to  be  taken  up  in  the  order  in  which  they 
stand.  In  many  cases,  subject-matter  from  different 
sections  of  the  same  chapter  may  properly  be  presented 
in  one  lesson.  For  example.  Sections  2  and  3  of  Chap- 
ter II  would  naturally  be  taken  up  together. 

The  subject  of  cleaning  is  treated  in  considerable 
detail  (Chapter  I,  Section  4),  both  because  of  its  im- 
portance as  a  part  of  a  course  in  household  science,  and 
in  order  to  facilitate  the  keeping  of  the  school  kitchen 
and  its  equipment  in  proper  condition.  Each  pupil 
should  be  thoroughly  familiar  with  this  section,  so  that 
when  called  on  to  serve  as  housekeeper  she  should 
know  how  to  perform  her  duties,  and  where  to  turn 
in  the  text-book  to  refresh  her  memory  with  regard  to 
them. 

With  the  exception  of  this  section  on   Cleanliness 


NOTES   TO   TEACHERS  xi 

and  Cleaning,  no  part  of  the  book  is  intended  to  be 
studied  at  home  before  being  taken  up  in  class.  Sec- 
tions 5  and  6  of  Chapter  I,  both  sections  of  Chapter  V, 
and  Section  4  of  Chapter  VI  are  designed  to  be  used 
chiefly  for  reference. 

Directions  for  performing  experiments  and  for  mak- 
ing tests  and  "  studies  "  are  explicit,  in  order  that  each 
pupil  may  carry  them  out  individually,  ‚Äî  at  school,  if 
conditions  permit,  if  not,  then  at  home.  It  is  assumed 
that  experiments  and  tests  referred  to  in  the  text,  but 
for  which  directions  are  not  given  (^e.g.  the  decompo- 
sition of  water  by  sodium,  p.  30,  and  testing  for  proteid 
with  nitric  acid,  p.  87),  will  be  performed  by  the 
teacher  before  the  class. 

A  microscope  is  a  desirable  part  of  the  equipment 
of  a  school  kitchen,  but  if  one  is  not  available,  draw- 
ings or  charts  showing  the  appearance  of  common 
foods  and  foodstuffs  under  the  microscope  may  answer 
instead  of  an  exhibition  of  the  specimen  itself  under 
the  microscope. 

In  taking  up  a  new  topic,  this  book,  as  a  rule,  gives 
opportunity  for  some  practice  work  before  presenting 
any  theory.  Principles  are  taught  in  connection  with 
their  application,  and  the  classification  of  foods  and 
general  statements  about  them  are  deferred  until  some 
practical   acquaintance    has  been    gained  with   typical 


xii  NOTES   TO   TEACHERS 

foods  and  their  chief  constituents.  It  will  be  observed 
that  the  recipes  in  the  section  on  Diet  for  the  Sick 
(Section  2  of  Chapter  XI)  are  so  classified  and  ar- 
ranged that  this  section  forms  a  review  of  the  different 
classes  of  foods  in  the  same  order  in  which  they  are 
taken  up  in  the  preceding  chapters. 

Although  beverages  are  grouped  by  themselves,  they 
are  treated  independently  of  each  other  and  of  other 
topics,  in  order  that  they  may  be  taken  up  separately 
whenever  convenient.  A  lesson  on  tea  may  be  given 
in  connection  with  the  study  of  water,  tea-making  thus 
forming  the  first  practice  work  of  the  course.  Instruc- 
tion in  the  preparation  of  cocoa  and  chocolate  can  be 
given  to  better  advantage  after  milk  has  been  studied. 

Opportunity  is  offered,  especially  by  means  of  the* 
experiments,  "  studies,"  and  suggestions  for  reading 
and  home  work,  for  correlation  with  history,  drawing, 
and  the  natural  sciences.  It  is  desirable  that  every 
teacher  of  household  science  should  make  the  most  of 
these  opportunities,  and  should  secure  the  cooperation 
of  principal  and  grade-teachers  in  correlating,  not  these 
branches  only,  but  English  and  mathematics  as  well, 
with  the  work  of  the  school  kitchen. 


LIST  OF  PUBLICATIONS  REFERRED  TO  IN 
SUGGESTIONS  TO  PUPILS  CONCERNING 
SUPPLEMENTARY   READING 

Boston  School-kitchen  Text-book.     Mrs.  Mary  J.  Lincoln.     Little, 
Brown  and  Co.     Boston. 

Boys  and  Girls  in  Biology.     Sarah  Hackett  Stevenson.     D.  Apple- 
ton  and  Co.     New  York. 

Bulfinch's  Mythology.     Revised  by  Rev.  E.  E.  Hale.     Lee  and 
Shepard.     Boston. 

Century  Cook-book,  The.     Mary  Ronald.     The  Century  Co.    New 
York. 

Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.     Dr.  Lassar-Cohn.     Lippincott  and  Co. 
Philadelphia. 

Chocolate  Plant,  The.     Walter  Baker  and  Co.     Dorchester,  Mass. 

Coal  and  the  Coal-mines.     Homer  D.  Green.     Houghton,  Mifflin 
and  Co.     Boston. 

Domestic  Science  in  Grammar  Grades.     A  reader.     L.  L.  W.  Wil- 
son.    The  Macmillan  Co.     New  York. 

Dora's  Housekeeping.     E.  S.  Kirkland.     A.  C.  McClurg  and  Co. 
Chicago. 

Drinking-water  and  Ice   Supplies.      T.   Mitchell   Prudden,   M.D. 
G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons.     New  York. 

Dust  and  its  Dangers.    T.  Mitchell  Prudden,  M.D.    G.  P.  Putnam's 
Sons.     New  York. 

Early  Chapters  in  Science.     Mrs.  W.  Audry.     John  Murray.   Lon- 
don. 

Fairyland  of  Science.     Arabella  Buckley.     D.  Appleton  and  Co. 
New  York. 

Food  Products  of  the  World.     Dr.  Mary  E.  Green.     The   Hotel 
World.     Chicago. 

xiii 


xiv  SUPPLEMENTARY    READING 

Foods  and  Beverages  (Information  Reader  No.  1).  E.  A.  Beal, 
M.D.     Boston  School  Supply  Co. 

Hiawatha.     Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

Home  Economics.     Maria  Parloa.     The  Century  Co.     New  York. 

Story  of  the  Bacteria,  The.  T.  Mitchell  Prudden,  M.D.  G.  P. 
Putnam's  Sons.     New  York. 

Woman's  Share  in  Primitive  Culture.  O.  T.  Mason.  D.  Appleton 
and  Co.     New  York. 

American  Kitchen  Magazine.  Home  Science  Publishing  Co. 
Boston. 

Chautauquan.     Chautauqua  Assembly.     Cleveland,  O. 

Harper's  Weekly.     Harper  and  Bros.     New  York. 

Nation,  The.     Evening  Post  Publishing  Co.     New  York. 

Penny  Magazine,  The.     London. 

Scribner's  Magazine.     Charles  Scribner's  Sons.     New  York. 

Farmers'  Bulletins.  Nos.  42,  57,  and  112.  Sent  free  on  applica- 
tion to  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.C. 


OTHER  BOOKS  -  SUITABLE  FOR  READING  IN  CON- 
NECTION WITH  "THE  THEORY  AND  PRACTICE 
OF   COOKERY." 

What  to  Eat  and  How  to  Serve  It.  Mrs.  C.  T.  Herrick.  Harper 
and  Bros.     New  York.     1891. 

Cookery  for  Beginners.  Mrs.  M.  V.  Terhune  (Marion  Harland). 
D.  Lothrop  and  Co.     Boston.     1884. 

Text-book  of  Domestic  Economy.  F.  T.  Paul.  Longmans,  Green 
and  Co.  New  York.  1894.  (Good  chapters  on  fuel,  drain- 
ing, and  water  supply.) 

History  of  a  Mouthful  of  Bread.  Jean  Mace.  Harper  and  Bros. 
New  York. 

Servants  of  the  Stomach.  Jean  Mace.  Harper  and  Bros.  New 
York. 


SUPPLEMENTARY   READING  xv 


COOKERY  BOOKS 

Art  of  Cookery,    The.     Mrs.  E.  P.  Ewing.     Flood  and  Vincent. 

Meadville,  Pa.     1896. 
Boston  Cook-book.     Mrs.  Mary  J.  Lincoln.     1899. 
Boston    Cooking-school    Cook-book,    The.      Fannie   M.    Farmei. 

1896. 
Hand-book  of  Livalid  Cookery.     Mary  A.  Boland.     The  Century 

Co.     New  York.     1893. 
Philadelphia  Cook-book,  The.     Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer.     1886. 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION 

PAGE 

Homes  and  Home-making  ....‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢! 


CHAPTER   I 
Preparatory  Lessons 

SECT. 

1.  Air  in  its  relation  to  life  and  to  fire 6 

2.  The  kitchen  fire  ‚Äî  Fuels 11 

3.  Water 23 

4.  Cleanliness  and  cleaning 31 

6.  Matter  :  Its  nature  and  changes 49 

6.  Definitions,  tables,  rules 62 

CHAPTER   II 
Fuel  Foods :   Some  Starchy  Plants 

1.  The  potato 59 

2.  Starch 68 

3.  Cereals  ;  Simple  cereal  foods 73 

4.  Wheat,  the  king  of  cereals 80 

CHAPTER   III 
TissuE-BUiLDiNG  FooDS  :   Eggs  and  Milk 

1.  Eggs ;  Albumin ,83 

2.  Milk  and  other  dairy  products 92 


xviii  CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  IV 

Bread 

sect.  page    i 

1.  Quick  breads  ‚Äî  Bcaking-powders 102 

2.  Flour llo 

3.  Macaroni  and  other  flour  pastes 118 

4.  Yeast  bread  ‚Äî  Yeast 122 

CHAPTER   V 
Food  in  its  Relation  to  Life 

1.  Bodystuffs  and  foodstuffs 136 

2.  Diet 141 

CHAPTER   VI 
Tissue-building  Foods  :   The  Flesh  of  Animals 

1.  Meat :  Its  structure,  composition,  and  cooking        .         .         .  144     i 

2.  Meat :  Cuts,  marketing  and  food  value 172     ' 

3.  Poultry  and  game 192     j 

4.  A  lesson  in  digestion,  illustrated  by  the  digestive  organs  of  a  i 

fowl 195     I 

6.    Fish  and  shell-fish 200 

CHAPTER    VII 
Fuel  Foods:   Fat  from  Animals  and  Oil  from  Plants 

1.  Fats  and  oils  :  What  they  are  and  what  they  are  good  for      .     212 

2.  Cooking  in  fat :  Frying  and  saut^ing 216 

CHAPTER   VIII 
Acid  and  Salt  Supplying  Foods:    Fruits  and  Vegetables 

1.  Fruits 226 

2.  Vegetables 235 

3.  Cream -of-vegetable  soups         .......  248 

4.  Salads ,        ,        ¬´        ,        ¬´        .  252 


CONTENTS  xix 


CHAPTER   IX 

Sugar  and  Sweets 

sect.  page 

1.  Sugar  ‚Äî  Candies 259 

2.  Cakes  and  desserts 264 

8.   Ice-cream  and  water-ices 276 


CHAPTER   X 
The  Preservation  of  Food 

1.  The  spoiling  of  food :  Wiiat  bacteria  have  to  do  with  it  .         .     280 

2.  Canning  and  jelly-making 284 

CHAPTER  XI 

Special  Diets 

1.  Diet  for  babies  ‚Äî  Special  preparations  of  milk        .         .        ,     289 

2.  Diet  for  the  sick 296 

CHAPTER   XII 
Beverages :  Tea,  Coffee,  Cocoa 

1.  Tea.  308 

2.  Coffee  311 

3.  Cocoa  and  chocolate 314 


Appendix  A.     Table  showing  composition  of  American  food 

materials 319 

Appendix  B.     Table  showing  quantity  of  foodstuffs  obtained  in 

different  food  materials  for  25  cents 327 


I 


THE   MOTTO  OF   THE  NEW  YOKK   CITY  PUBLIC 
SCHOOL   KITCHENS 

Good  cookery  means  the  knowledge  of  all  fruits,  herbs, 
balms,  and  spices,  and  of  all  that  is  healing  and  sweet  in 
fields  and  groves,  and  savory  in  meats.  It  means  careful- 
ness, inventiveness,  watchfulness,  willingness,  and  readiness 
of  appliance.  It  means  the  economy  of  your  great^gi-and- 
mothers  and  the  science  of  modern  chemists.  It  means 
much  tasting  and  no  wasting.  It  means  English  thorough- 
ness, French  art,  and  Arabian  hospitality.  It  means,  in 
fine,  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and  always  ladies  (loaf- 
givers).  And,  as  you  are  to  see  that  everybody  has  some- 
thing pretty  to  put  on,  so  you  are  to  see  that  everybody 
has  something  nice  to  eat.  ‚Äî  Ruskin. 


INTRODUCTION 
HOMES  AND  HOME-MAKING 

The  mission  of  the  ideal  woman  is  to  make  the  whole  world 
homelike.  ‚Äî  Frances  Willard. 

TO   THE   GIRLS  WHO  WILL  USE  THIS  BOOK : ‚Äî 

The  business  of  home-making.  ‚Äî  Have  you  ever 
thought  what  an  important  business  home-making  is? 
The  prosperity  of  a  nation  is  founded  in  the  welfare  of 
families,  and  the  welfare  of  a  family  depends  upon  its 
having  a  healthful,  happy  home. 

Origin  of  the  home.  ‚Äî  The  home,  as  we  know  it,  has 
grown  out  of  the  need  of  a  shelter  for  family  life. 
Parent  birds  build  nests,  not  for  themselves,  ‚Äî  they 
could  perch  comfortably  under  cover  of  leafy  twigs,  ‚Äî 
but  in  order  to  have  places  in  which  to  rear  their 
young.  Thus,  long  ago,  before  men  had  learned  to 
build  houses  and  cities,  mothers,  seeking  shelter  for 
their  babies,  crept  into  caves.  These  were  the  first 
homes  of  human  beings. 

Women  the  home-makers.  ‚Äî  The  home-makers  have 
always  been  women,  the  care  of  the  home  and  the 
management  of  household  industries  having  been  at 
all  times  in  their  hands.      In  very  early  times  men 

B  1 


2     THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

spent  their  lives  in  hunting  and  fighting ;  the  animals 
killed  they  brought  home  for  the  women  to  cook.  In 
order  to  do  this  more  conveniently,  the  women  made 
clay  dishes  and  baked  them  by  the  fire  or  in  the  sun. 
Because  the  women  stayed  at  home  all  day,  they  were 
interested  to  improve  their  way  of  living.  Dwellings 
more  comfortable  than  caves  began  to  be  constructed 
‚Äî  tents  of  animals'  skins,  and  huts  made  of  boughs, 
such  as  some  savages  live  in  to-day.  Finally,  when 
people  had  become  civilized,  they  built  for  themselves 
large  and  fine  houses,  varying  in  style  to  suit  different 
climates  and  the  customs  of  different  countries. 

Of  the  various  kinds  of  labor  still  carried  on  at  home 
by  the  members  of  the  household,  the  most  important 
are  cooking,  cleaning,  and  laundry  work,  commonly 
classed,  together  with  a  few  other  occupations,  as 
Jiousework. 

Household  industries  and  household  science.  ‚Äî  Science 
is  systematic  knowledge.  Household  Science  is  systematic 
knowledge  of  things  pertaining  to  the  home.  It  treats  of 
the  house  and  its  industries  in  their  relation  to  the 
welfare  of  the  household.  Cookery,  one  branch  of  House- 
hold Science.,  treats  of  the  preparation  of  food  for  eating. 
A  rational  study  of  any  subject  includes  both  practice 
and  theory.  Practice  teaches  how  to  do  a  thing  ;  theory 
explains  why  it  should  be  done. 

Home  and  school  ought  to  work  for  the  good  of  the 
nation.  ‚Äî  In  its  mission  of  training  children  to  be  good 
citizens,  the  school  needs  help  from  the  home.  For 
without  right  home  conditions,  including  a  sufficient 


HOMES   AND   HOME-MAKING  3 

supply  of  suitable  and  well-cookecl  food,  boys  and  girls 
cannot  have  the  strong  bodies  and  clear  minds  needed 
for  doing  school  work  while  they  are  children,  and  for 
their  life-work  as  men  and  women.  Think,  then,  how 
important  to  the  nation  it  is  that  home-makers  should 
have  a  knowledge  of  Household  Science ! 

Training  for  home-making.  ‚Äî  All  knowledge  comes  by 
study  and  practice ;  a  girl  spends  two  years,  at  least,  in 
fitting  herself  to  teach ;  a  boy,  even  longer  in  learning 
a  business  or  trade.  Is  special  preparation  less  neces- 
sary for  home-making,  which  involves  many  kinds  of 
work,  some  of  them  difficult,  and  which  usually  includes 
the  noblest  of  all  occupations,  the  care  and  training  of 
children?  And  do  you  not  think,  since  almost  every 
woman  is  at  some  time  engaged  either  in  making  a  home 
or  in  helping  some  other  woman  to  make  one,  that  every 
girl  should  learn  all  she  can  about  housekeeping  and 
home-making? 

In  studying  Household  Science,  and  particularly  in 
studying  Cookery,  you  will  not  only  learn  many  inter- 
esting things  that  you  would  be  unlikely  to  discover 
for  yourself  in  doing  housework  at  home,  but  you  will 
find  pleasure  in  the  work  itself.  Because  certain  house- 
hold duties  may  seem  hard  or  unpleasant  is  no  reason  for 
considering  housework  unworthy  of  attention.  Some 
people  make  hard  work  of  housekeeping  by  doing  it  in 
an  unthinking  way  ;  when,  by  putting  their  minds  upon 
it,  they  might  discover  how  to  make  it  easier  and  pleas- 
anter.  Only  by  treating  housekeeping  as  an  honorable 
employment,  worthy  of  our  best  thought  and  skill,  can 


4     THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

we  bring  about  conditions  of  health,  comfort,  and  hap- 
piness in  our  homes. 

You  may  enjoy  reading  Dora's  Housekeeping,  a  good  story  of 
how  a  girl  kept  house  while  her  mother  was  away ;  and  "  Notable 
Housekeepers  "  (one  of  these  being  Louisa  M.  Alcott),  an  article  in 
the  American  Kitchen  Magazine,  February,  1898,  Vol.  VIII,  p.  186. 


CHAPTER   I 

PREPARATORY  LESSONS 

Section  1.    Air  in  its  Relation  to  Life  and  to  Fire 

Sunlight,  pure  air,  and  pure  water  are  our  common  birthright, 
which  we  often  bargain  away  for  so-called  comforts. 

‚Äî  Ellen  H.  Richards  and  S.  Maria  Elliott. 

1.  Three  things  are  essential  to  life,  ‚Äî  air,  water,  and 
food.  Of  these,  air  is  the  first  essential,  since  we  can 
live  without  eating  or  drinking  longer  than  without 
breathing.  How  is  breathing  related  to  health  and 
life  ?  We  can  best  answer  this  question  by  showing 
how  air  is  affected  by  being  breathed. 

AIR  IN  ITS  RELATION   TO   LIFE 

2.  Testing  air  for  carbon  dioxide.  ‚Äî  Experiments.  A.  Into  a 
clean  bottle,  pour  a  little  clear  lime-water ;  cork  the  bottle,  and 
shake  it  so  that  the  lime-water  may  come  in  contact  with  the  air 
in  the  bottle.  Do  you  see  any  change  in  the  appearance  of  the 
lime-water?  Now  hold  a  glass  tube  so  that  it  dips  below  the  sur- 
face of  the  lime-water,  and  blow  through  it  for  a  minute  or  two. 
Is  the  lime-water  changed  in  appearance  ?  Do  you  think  that  air 
exhaled  from  the  lungs  is  just  like  air  in  the  room? 

B.  Insert  a  splinter  in  a  cork,  light  the  splinter,  and  fit  the  cork 
into  the  neck  of  a  bottle.  What  happens?  Pour  a  little  clear 
lime-water  into  the  bottle  and  shake.  Note  the  effect  on  the  lime- 
water. 

5  > 


6     THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Air  from  the  lungs  and  air  in  which  a  splinter  has 
been  burned  both  turn  lime-water  cloudy.  It  is  known 
that  this  cloudiness  is  produced  only  by  carbon  dioxide, 
an  invisible  gas.     How  does  this  gas  get  into  the  air  ? 

3.  Composition  of  air;  formation  of  carbon  dioxide  by 
burning.  ‚Äî  Air  is  a  mixture  of  two  invisible  gases, 
oxygen  and  nitrogen.^     Wood  contains  carbon. 

4.  When  the  splinter  is  lighted,  a  part  of  this  carbon 
unites  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air  to  form  carbon  diox- 
ide, and  continues  uniting  with  it  as  long  as  any  oxygen 
is  left  in  the  bottle.  When  all  this  has  been  used,  the 
fire  goes  out,  because  the  oxygen  has  been  replaced  by 
carbon  dioxide,  in  which  nothing  will  burn.  Part  of 
the  carbon  remains  unburned  as  charcoal. 

5.  Formation  of  carbon  dioxide  in  the  body;  oxygen 
necessary  to  life.  ‚Äî  The  presence  of  carbon  dioxide  in 
air  that  has  been  breathed  is  similarly  caused  by  a  slow 
kind  of  burning  constantly  going  on  in  the  body.  That 
the  body  contains  carbon  may  be  shown  by  burning  a 
piece  of  meat,  which  has  almost  exactly  the  same  com- 
position as  human  flesh.  It  becomes  black  like  the 
burned  splinter.  The  oxygen  of  the  air  taken  into  the 
lungs  unites  with  this  carbon,  produces  heat  to  keep 
the  body  warm,  and  forms  carbon  dioxide.  The  walls 
of  the  little  cells  in  the  lungs  are  so  thin  that  oxygen 
passes  through  them  into  tiny  blood-vessels  called  eap- 

1  Argon,  a  gas  discovered  in  1894,  is  also  found  in  air,  but  in  such  small 
quantities  that  it  may  be  disregarded  here. 


PREPARATORY    LESSONS  7 

illaries^  and  at  the  same  time  carbon  dioxide,  brought 
by  the  blood  from  all  over  the  body,  passes  out  into  the 
air.  The  blood  flows  on  to  other  parts  of  the  body, 
giving  up  oxygen  on  its  way,  thus  literally  keeping  up 
the  "  fires  of  life  "  ;  for  without  oxygen  life  would  go 
out  as  surely  as  does  the  burning  splinter.  Carbon 
dioxide,  on  the  contrary,  is  useless,  ‚Äî  a  substance  to  be 
carried  off  by  the  blood,  and  quickly  gotten  rid  of 
through  the  lungs. 

6.  Plants  breathe  through  their  leaves^  taking  in  car- 
bon dioxide  and  giving  off  oxygen  when  in  the  sunlight. 
At  other  times  they  give  off  carbon  dioxide. 

AIR  IN   ITS   RELATION   TO   FIRE 

7.  Food  being  cooked  chiefly  by  means  of  heat, 
cookery  includes  a  study  of  fire.  Let  us  learn  what 
we  can  of  the  relation  of  air  to  fire. 

A  Study  of  Combustion 

8.  Experiments  with  a  candle.  ‚Äî  A.  Set  a  two-inch  piece  of 
candle  on  the  table  and  light  it.  How  does  it  burn  ?  Notice  the 
appearance  of  the  flame.     (Fig.  1,  a.) 

B.  Set  over  the  candle  a  lamp-chimney  supported  on  two  pencils 
or  blocks  of  wood.  (Fig.  1,6.)  Notice  how  the  flame  has  changed. 
Hold  your  hand  for  a  moment  about  two  inches  above  the  chim- 
ney, and  notice  the  heat  felt.  Hold  a  bit  of  tissue  paper  just  above 
the  chimney.  Is  it  drawn  upward  or  downward?  Hold  it  near 
the  space  at  the  base  of  the  chimney.  Is  it  drawn  outward  or 
inward? 

C.  Remove  the^  supports,  letting  the  chimney  rest  upon  the 
table.     (Fig.  1,  c.)     Test  for  heat  with  your  hand,  then  hold  the 


8 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


bit  of  paper  as  before.  Do  you  feel  any  heat?  Does  the  paper 
move?  What  happens  to  the  candle?  Can  you,  by  recalling  the 
experiment  with  the  splinter  and  the  bottle,  explain  this  ? 

D.  Relight  the  candle,  replace  the  chimney  upon  the  supports, 
and  cover  the  top  with  a  piece  of  thick  cardboard.  (Fig.  1,  d.) 
What  happens?  Explain.  Removing  the  cardboard,  quickly 
thrust  a  lighted  splinter  inside  of  the  chimney.  What  gas  do  you 
think  may  be  present  ? 

E.  Through  a  tiny  hole  in  the  cardboard  pass  a  fine  wire  bent 
into  a  small  loop  at  one  end.     Arrange  candle  and  chimney  as  in 


Exp.  D.  Dip  the  wire  loop  into  clear  lime-water,  which  should 
form  a  film  across  the  loop.  Cover  the  chimney  with  the  card- 
board, letting  the  wire  hang  inside.  (Fig.  1,  e.)  About  two 
minutes  after  the  candle  goes  out  examine  the  film.  What  gas 
has  been  formed  ?  Is  the  candle  as  large  as  it  was  before  it  was 
lighted?     W^hat  has  become  of  the  part  that  has  disappeared? 

9.  Explanation  of  the  burning  of  a  candle.  ‚Äî When  a 
candle  is  lighted,  the  wax,  by  the  heat  of  the  burning 
match,  is  first  melted,  and  then,  being  soaked  up  by  the 
wick,  is  changed  to  gas.  The  oxygen  of  the  air,  always 
eager  for  something  to  unite  with,  seizes  upon  this  gas; 


PREPARATORY    LESSONS  9 

in  other  words,  the  gns  hums.  Whenever  oxygen 
unites  with  another  substance  so  rapidly  that  light  and 
heat  are  given  off,  we  have  burning,  or  combustion.  The 
light  and  heat  we  call  fire.     Flame  is  burning  yas. 

10.  Drafts. ‚Äî In  still  air  a  candle-flame  streams 
straight  upward,  because  of  the  constant  upward  draft 
caused  by  the  heating  of  air  near  the  flame.  As  this 
air  rises,  air  from  below  flows  toward  the  candle  to  take 
its  place.  This  in  turn  becomes  hot  and  rises,  thus 
starting  a  draft  that  continues  as  long  as  the  candle 
burns.  And,  while  the  burning  of  the  candle  keeps  up 
the  draft,  this  draft  supplies  the  candle  with  oxygen  to 
keep  it  burning.  When  we  place  a  lamp-chimney  over 
the  candle,  leaving  a  space  at  the  bottom,  we  make  the 
draft  stronger  by  shutting  off  side-drafts.  The  flame 
flickers,  and  the  candle  burns  faster.  But  if  either  the 
opening  at  the  top  of  the  chimney,  or  the  space  between 
chimney  and  table  be  closed,  all  draft  is  stopped,  and  as 
soon  as  the  oxygen  then  inside  the  chimney  is  used  up, 
the  candle  goes  out.  To  keep  up  combustion,  then,  we 
must  have  a  draft.  For  a  draft  through  an  enclosed 
space  two  opeyiings  are  necessary^  one  to  let  air  in,  the 
other  to  let  it  out. 

11.  Products  of  combustion.  ‚Äî The  candle,  after  burn- 
ing for  a  time,  is  shorter  than  when  first  lighted,  because 
it  has,  little  by  little,  united  with  oxygen  to  form  new 
gases  which  stream  off  unseen.  One  of  these  gases  is 
carbon  dioxide,  as  is  shown  by  the  clouding  of  the 
lime-water  on  the  loop  of  wire.     Besides  this,  water  is 


10    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

formed  from  oxygen  and  a  substance  in  wax  called 
hydrogen  {water -maker).  Substances  foriped  as  a  result 
of  combustion  are  called  products  of  combustion.  Some 
of  the  carbon  is  not  burned  at  once,  but  floats  in  tiny 
particles  in  the  flame.  If  some  cold  object,  such  as  a 
saucer,  be  held  in  the  flame,  this  carbon  is  deposited  on 
it  as  soot.  Ordinarily,  unburned  carbon  goes  off  as 
smoke.  We  may  state  the  process  of  combustion  some- 
what like  an  example  in  arithmetic  :  candle  -f-  air  =  car- 
bon dioxide  and  water. 

12.  Nothing  destroyed  in  combustion.  ‚Äî  By  letting  H 
stand  for  hydrogen,  0  for  oxygen,  and  G  for  carbon,  and, 
taking  into  account  that  oxygen  unites  with  just  half  its 
bulk  of  carbon  and  with  twice  its  bulk  of  hydrogen,  we 
have  C  +  2  0  =  CO,,,  and  2  H  +  0  =  HaO. 

The  water,  smoke,  carbon  dioxide,  and  other  gases  pro- 
duced would,  if  weighed,  exactly  equal  the  weight  of  the 
burned  candle  plus  that  of  the  oxygen  used  in  burning  it. 
Nothing  has  been  destroyed. 

13.  Burning  in  oxygen.  ‚Äî  In  pure  oxygen,  combustion 
is  more  rapid  and  energetic  than  in  air,  iron  and  other 
substances  that  will  not  burn  in  air  burning  readily  in 
oxygen.  Could  we  use  iron  stoves  if  our  atmosphere 
were  pure  oxygen  ?  In  oxygen  or  in  air,  however, 
combustion  is  essentially  the  same;  whether  in  fire- 
place, stove,  or  lamp;  whether  a  single  match  burns,  or 
a  whole  building.  Wherever  combustion  takes  place, 
something  unites  with  oxygen,  giving  off  heat  (and 
usually  light),  and  forming  products  of  combustion. 

The  story  of  Prometheus,  who  is  fabled  to  have  stolen  fire  from 
heaven,  is  told  on  p.  19  of  Buljinch's  Mythology.     You  may  also 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  11 

like  to  read  in  Early  Chapters  in  Science  about  combustion,  on 
p.  328,  and  carbon  dioxide,  on  p.  332 ;  and  in  either  The  Fairyland 
of  Science,  pp.  50-72,  or  in  the  Domestic  Science  Reader,  pp.  123- 
131,  about  "The  Aerial  Ocean  in  which  We  Live." 

Section  2.    The  Kitchen  Fire  ‚Äî  Fuels 
A  clean  fire,  a  clean  hearth.  ‚Äî  Charles  Lamb. 

14.  In  order  to  manage  a  kitchen  fire  successfully, 
we  must  understand  the  construction  and  purpose  of 
every  part  of  the  range.  Much  fuel  is  wasted,  food 
spoiled,  and  time  lost  because  women  do  not  take  the 
trouble  to  do  this. 

THE   COAL  RANGE 

15.  The  range  and  its  parts.  ‚Äî A  range  or  a  cooking- 
stove  is  an  iron  box.  It  should  stand  upon  a  brick 
hearth,  or  a  sheet  of  zinc,  and  the  wall  near  it  should 
be  of  brick  or  tiling,  or  else  protected  by  zinc. 

A  range  has  the  following  parts  :  ‚Äî 

1.  Fire-box,  to  contain  fuel. 

2.  Grate,  which  forms  the  floor  of  the  fire-box. 

^  a.  Creative  1  n   -     n     p. 

6.   Check       j  to  regulate  draft. 

c.   Oven        ]  ^     V       ,  -     P  1    ^    ‚Ä¢ 

d    C\\'  \      direct  current  oi  hot  air. 

4.  Ash-pan,  to  receive  ashes,  cinders,  and  clinkers  (incom- 

bustible waste  material  and  solid  products  of  com- 
bustion). 

5.  Stove-pipe,  to   carry  off   smoke    (unburnt   carbon)   and 

gaseous  products  of  combustion. 

6.  Oven,  for  food. 


3.   Dampers 


12    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Some  ranges  have  other  parts,  ‚Äî  an  oven  for  warm- 
ing dishes,  a  water-front,  more  dampers,  etc.,  ‚Äî  but  the 
parts  named  above  are  all  that  are  essential. 

Distinction  between  a  stove  and  a  range.  ‚Äî  A  stove  is 
movable,  and  usually  has  one  oven  with  two  doors.  A 
range  may  either  be  built  into  the  wall  (seQ,  or  stand 
out  in  the  room  {portable). 

16.  The  range  in  detail.  ‚Äî  When  the  fire  is  out  take 
off  all  the  lids  and  as  much  of  the  top  of  the  stove  as 
is  removable.     Look  first  at  the  fire-box. 

The  fire-box  is  a  rectangular  space  open  at  the  top, 
lined  on  the  sides  with  a  fireproof  material  {fire -bricks)^ 
and  having  a  movable  grate  for  a  floor. 

Underneath  the  fire-box  is  the  ash-pan.  It  should  be 
emptied  once  a  day,  and  the  space  around  it  brushed  out. 

The  stove-pipe  connects  the  range  with  the  chimney. 

The  oven  in  a  stove  or  a  portable  range  is  back  of  the 
fire-box.  In  a  set  range  there  are  generally  two  ovens, 
one  on  each  side  of  the  fire-box.  An  oven  should  con- 
tain a  rack.  Between  the  oven  and  the  top,  sides,  and 
bottom  of  the  range  there  is  a  space  for  the  passage  of 
air  from  the  fire-box.  This  space  must  be  cleaned  occa- 
sionally to  keep  it  from  becoming  choked  with  soot  and 
ashes. 

The  dampers  are  slides  or  doors  fitted  to  openings  in 
the  range.  Below  the  fire-box  is  the  front  damper.  In 
the  stove-pipe  is  the  chimney  damper.  At  the  back 
of  the  oven  is  the  oven  damper,  usually  moved  by  a  rod 
extending  to  the  front  of  the  range. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  13 

17.  Management  of  the  dampers.  ‚Äî  By  opening  the 
front,  chimney,  and  oven  dampers  a  direct  draft  is  pro- 
duced, the  air  passing  from  below  the  grate,  up  through 
the  fuel  in  the  fire-box,  and  out  into  the  chimney.  This 
arrangement  of  dampers  is  used  to  start  the  fire,  or  to 
increase  the  heat  of  a  fire  already  burning.  (Fig.  2,  A.) 
If  the  front  damper  be  opened,  and  the  chimney  damper 
closed,  when  a  fire  is  starting,  the  smoke  will  come  into 
the  room.  Why  ?  The  chimney  damper  should  be  so 
arranged  that  the  opening  in  the  stove-pipe  is  never 
wholly  closed. 

By  closing  the  oven  damper,  the  air  heated  in  the 
fire-box  is  made  to  flow  around  the  oven  before  enter- 
ing the  chimney.  By  this  means  the  oven  is  heated, 
and  the  force  of  the  draft  at  the  same  time  lessened  by  its 
having  to  make  its  way  around  corners.  (Fig.  2,  B.) 
Observe  carefully  the  mechanism  of  the  chimney  dampers. 
In  some  ranges  they  are  opened  hy  pulling  the  handles 
out ;  in  others  hy  pushiyig  them  in.  The  range  in  your 
home  may  differ  in  this  respect  from  the  one  at  school. 

18.  The  check  damper  is  in  front  of  the  fire-box. 
Opening  it  sends  a  stream  of  cold  air  across  the  top  of 
the  fire.  Air  admitted  below  the  fire-box  feeds  the  fire 
by  parting  with  its  oxygen  as  it  passes  through  the  fuel. 
Air  admitted  above  the  fire-box  merely  flows  over  the 
burning  fuel  and  goes  up  the  chimney  before  it  has  time 
to  part  with  its  oxygen.  Its  effect  is  to  check  the  fire 
by  cooling  it. 


14 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


EiG.  2. 

Diagrams  of  range  :  A,  with  oven  damper  open  ;  B,  with  oven  damper  closed  ;  F  =  fire- 
box ;  A  =  ash-pan  ;  0  =  oven  ;  P  =  stove-pipe.  Arrows  show  direction  of  air- 
currents. 


PREPARATORY    LESSONS  15 

HOAV    TO    MAKE    A    FiKE 

19.  Cleaning  the  fire-box.  ‚Äî 1.  Close  all  the  dampers 
except  the  oven  dampers. 

2.  Brush  the  ashes  from  the  edge  of  the  fire-box  into 
the  fire-box,  and  put  the  lid  on. 

3.  Turn  the  grate  over,  so  as  to  dump  the  ashes  into 
the  ash-pan.  (If  there  is  an  ash-sifter  in  the  range,  the 
ashes  will  fall  upon  this,  and  must  afterward  be  sifted 
through  it  into  the  pan.) 

20.  Laying  the  fire.  ‚Äî  4.    Lay  the  fire  :  ‚Äî 

a.  Fill  the  fire-box  one-third  full  of  shavings,  or 
wisps  of  paper  twisted  in  the  middle  so  as  to  expose  a 
large  surface  to  the  air. 

h.  On  these  lay  small  sticks  of  soft  wood  crosswise, 
or  one  bundle  of  such  kindling  as  is  sold  by  grocers  in 
New  York  City. 

c.    Put  two  shovelfuls  of  coal  on  top  of  the  wood. 

The  fuel  should  be  arranged  loosely  in  order  that  the 
air  may  have  free  passage  through  it.      (See  Fig.  2.) 

5.  Cover  the  top  of  the  range.  Open  all  the  dampers 
except  the  oven  dampers. 

21.  Starting  the  fire.  ‚Äî 6.  Light  the  fire  by  applying 
a  lighted  match  between  the  bars  of  the  grate  to  the 
paper  or  shavings  inside.  (If  the  stove  is  to  be  black- 
ened, do  it  now.) 

7.  When  the  wood  is  all  ablaze,  add  coal  until  the 
fire-box  is  level  full.      (As   the  wood  burns  away  the 


16    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

coal   will  settle.     The  fire-box   should  never  be  kept 
more  than  three-fourths  full.) 

22.  What  to  do  when  the  fire  is  well  started.  ‚Äî  8.  When 
the  blue  flame  disappears,  close  the  oven  dampers,  and 
half  close  the  lower  damper.  When  the  coal  is  burning 
well,  close  the  lower  damper  entirely,  and  half  close 
the  chimney  damper. 

How   TO   MANAGE   A    FlRE 

23.  For  a  steady  hot  fire,  rake  out  the  ashes  with  a 
poker  from  beneath  the  grate  ;  or,  if  the  grate  is  a 
revolving  one,  give  it  one  turn.  Fill  the  fire-box  three- 
fourths  full  of  coal.  Open  the  lower  front  and  chimney 
dampers.  See  that  oven  and  check  dampers  are  closed. 
When  the  coal  in  the  lower  part  of  the  fire-box  is  glow- 
ing red,  the  top  layer  still  black,  and  the  flames  yellow, 
close  the  dampers.  When  the  top  layer  begins  to  glow, 
add  more  coal,  so  that  there  will  always  be  black  coals 
on  top. 

To  heat  the  oven.  ‚Äî  Open  the  oven  and  chimney 
dampers,  keeping  all  others  closed. 

To  check  the  fire  slightly,  open  the  slide  in  the  check 
damper.  To  check  it  decidedly,  open  the  check  damper 
itself.     All  other  dampers  must  be  closed. 

To  keep  a  fire  over  night.  ‚Äî Fill  the  fire-box  with  coal ; 
close  oven,  lower  front,  and  chimney  dampers,  and  open 
the  checl^  damper. 

24.  Kindling-point.  ‚Äî  Why  is  it,  with  active  oxygen 
always  in   the  air,  ready  to  devour,  that  chairs,  tables, 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  17 

houses,  do  not  take  fire  and  burn  ?  Simply  because  a 
substance  must  be  heated  to  a  certain  degree  before  it 
will  begin  to  unite  with  oxygen.  Except  for  this, 
everything  combustible  would  have  burned  up  long 
ago.  The  temperature  to  which  a  substance  must  be 
raised  before  it  will  burn  is  its  kindling-point.  This 
point  differs  for  different  substances.  See  how  we  take 
advantage  of  this  fact  in  starting  a  fire.  We  first  light 
a  match,  the  phosphorus  ^  on  which  kindles  from  the 
friction  of  striking,  setting  on  fire  the  sulphur  mixed 
with  it.  This,  which  has  a  somewhat  higher  kindling- 
point  than  phosphorus,  in  turn  ignites  the  wood  of  the 
match,  the  kindling-point  of  which  is  higher  still.  Coal 
will  not  take  fire  from  a  match,  because  its  kindling- 
point  is  so  high  that  the  match  burns  out  before  the 
coal  becomes  hot  enough  to  burn  ;  but  paper  may  be 
lighted  from  a  match,  wood  from  burning  paper,  and 
coal  from  burning  wood. 

To  start  a  fire  three  things  are  required :  oxygen^  fitel^ 
and  some  means  of  raising  the  fuel  to  its  kindling -point. 

THE   GAS   RANGE 

25.  Some  of  the  advantages  of  a  gas  stove  or  range  over 
one  burning  coal  are,  (1)  it  saves  time  and  labor,  (2)  it  does 
not  heat  the  kitchen  uncomfortably  in  summer,  and  (3)  it  is, 
if  managed  IV ith  care,  more  economical,  because  no  fuel  need 
be  burned  when  the  stove  is  not  in  use. 

26.  Connections.  ‚Äî The  range  should  be  connected  with 
the  largest  main  pipe  accessible  (not  less  than  one-half  inch 

1  Phosphorus  burns,  though  slowly,  at  the  ordinary  temperature. 
It  must,  therefore,  be  kept  under  water. 


18    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

bore  inside  measure).     If  within  six  inches  of  the  wall,  the 
connecting-pipe  should  be  protected  by  zinc  or  tiling. 

27.  The  range  and  its  parts.  ‚Äî  A  range  of  ordinary  size 
has :  ‚Äî 

1.  Four  top  burners,  for  saucepans,  kettles,  etc. 

2.  One  or  two  sets  of  oven  burners,  for  heating  the  ovens. 

3.  A  baking  oven,  for  bread,  cake,  and  large  roasts. 

4.  A  broiling  oven  (below  the  burners)  with  rack  and  pan, 

for  steaks,  chops,  etc.,  for  small  roasts,  for  toast,  and 
for  dishes  to  be  browned. 

5.  Gas-cocks,  one  or  more  to  each  top  burner,  two  to  the 

oven  burners,  to  regulate  the  supply  of  gas. 

6.  An  oven  lighter,  or  "pilot  light,"  at  the  right-hand  side 

of  the  oven,  for  lighting  the  oven  burners. 

7.  A  stove-pipe,  connected  with  the  chimney,  for  carrying 

away  gases  produced  by  combustion. 

The  broiling  oven  is  heated  directly  from  the  oven  burners, 
the  baking  oven  by  currents  of  heated  air  passing  around  it, 
as  in  a  coal  range.  Some  ranges  have  a  small  top  burner, 
called  a  simmering  burner;  all  ranges  should  have  a  mov- 
able sheet  of  iron  under  the  top  burners.  The  connecting 
pipe  is  sometimes  fitted  with  a  gas-cock. 

Air  is  admitted  to  the  burner  through  holes  in  the  supply 
pipes.  This  makes  the  gas  burn  with  a  blue  and  very  hot 
flame. 

How  TO  Manage  a  Gas  Range 

28.  Learn  which  pipes  supply  each  burner;  learn  the 
position  of  each  gas-cock,  when  open  and  when  closed. 

"When  the  range  is  not  in  use  keep  all  gas-cocks  closed, 
i.e.  turned  toward  the  right.  It  is  7iot  sufficient  to  turn 
off  the  gas  hy  closing  the  cock  in  the  connecting  pipe  only; 
if  this  is  done,  leaving  other  cocks  open,  the  gas,  when 
next  turned  on,  will  escape  unlighted.  If  it  escapes 
into  the  oven,  a  dangerous  explosion  is  likely  to  take 
place,  on  lighting  the  oven  burners. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  19 

How  to  light  the  gas  range.  ‚Äî  To  light  a  top  burner_ 
first  open  the  cock  in  connecting  pipe  by  turning  it  to 
the  left;  then  open  the  cock  in  tlie  pipe  supplying  the 
burner,  let  the  gas  flow  for  two  or  three  seconds,  and 
apply  lighted  match  or  taper.  If  the  burner  is  a  double 
one,  and  you  wish  to  light  both  parts,  light  one  first  ; 
then  turn  the  cock  admitting  gas  to  the  other,  and  it 
will  light  from  the  first.  To  light  the  oven  burners,  first 
see  that  all  stop-cocks  regulating  the  supply  of  gas  to 
the  oven  burners  are  closed,  and  that  both  oven  doors 
are  open.  Now  open  the  pilot  light  cock,  and  light  the 
pilot  light  from  the  outside,  through  the  hole  made  for 
this  purpose  ;  this  done,  open  first  one  oven  cock  and 
then  the  other.  Each  set  of  burners  will  light  with  a 
slight  explosive  sound  ;  wdien  you  see  that  both  are 
burning  blue  and  clear,  turn  off  the  pilot  light. 

If  the  gas  burns  yellow  with  a  roaring  noise,  it  has 
"  struck  back,"  and  is  burning  in  the  air-chamber.  Turn 
it  off  at  once,  let  it  flow  a  few  seconds,  and  relight  it.^ 

29.  How  to  use  the  gas  range.  ‚Äî For  broiling,  toasting, 

etc.,  have  oven  burners  lighted  and  doors  closed  at  least 
five  minutes  before  using  the  oven.  Place  the  rack  and 
pan  close  under  the  burners.  For  roasting  in  the  broiling 
oven,  observe  the  same  rules  and  turn  the  roast  fre- 
quently. For  baking,  light  the  oven  burners  and  close 
the  door  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  before  putting  in  the 
food. 

30.  To  avoid  wasting  gas. ‚Äî 1.  As  soon  as  the  contents 
of  a  kettle  or  saucepan  boil,  turn  the  gas  down,  and 
keep  it  as  low  as  possible  without  checking  the  boiling. 
For  simmering,  turn  still  lower  or  use  the  simmering 

1  In  some  ranges  the  supply  of  air  may  be  regulated  by  turning  a 
cap,  which  enlarges  or  decreases  the  size  of  the  air-holes  in  the  supply 
pipe. 


20    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

burner.  When  so  little  heat  is  required  that  the  gas 
is  in  danger  of  going  out,  turn  it  up  a  little  and  mod- 
erate the  heat  by  putting  an  asbestos  board  over  it. 
2.  When  the  oven  is  sufficiently  hot,  close  one  oven 
cock,  or  partly  close  both.  3.  Always  turn  off  the  gas 
the  instant  you  are  done  using  it,  even  if  it  is  to  be  re- 
lighted ;  matches  are  cheaper  than  gas. 

31.  Care  of  the  gas  range.  ‚Äî  Keep  air-holes  clear. 
Draw  out  iron  sheet  under  top-burners  and  clean  it  once 
a  day.     For  further  care  see  ¬ß  95. 

FUELS 

32.  Anything  that  unites  readily  with  oxygen  may  be 
used  as  fuel.  Fuels  common  in  American  households 
are  coal,  wood,  coal-oil  (kerosene),  and,  in  some  places, 
gas. 

33.  The  story  of  coal. ‚Äî Coal,  by  composition  and 
structure,  is  shown  to  be  of  plant  origin.  Leaves,  ferns, 
bark,  whole  tree  trunks  even,  have  been  found  turned 
to  coal  in  mines.  The  slow  process  of  decay  that  effected 
this  change  took  place  long  before  men  lived  on  the 
earth,  at  a  time  when  the  land  was  covered  with  thick 
forests  different  from  any  growing  now.  Many  trees 
then  resembled  gigantic  ferns.  Evidently  these  forests 
were  flooded  from  time  to  time,  the  trees  being  over- 
thrown and  buried  beneath  sand  washed  in  by  the  water. 
The  flood  subsiding,  a  new  forest  arose,  to  be  in  turn 
similarly  buried.  Pressure,  combined  with  heat  greater 
than  now  prevails  anywhere  on  earth,  slowly  carbonized 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  21 

these   layers   of    plant-substance    into   seams   of    coal. 
This  period  is  known  as  the  Carboniferous  Age. 

34.  Coal  works  for  us.  ‚Äî  The  heat  of  burning  coal 
may  be  utilized  to  cook  food,  melt  iron,  make  steam  to 
drive  engines,  and  do  hundreds  of  other  kinds  of  work. 
A  person  able  to  work  is  said  to  have  energy.  Whence 
comes  the  energy  of  coal  ?  From  its  carbon  ;  and  to 
find  out  where  that  came  from  we  must  go  back  to  the 
Carboniferous  Age. 

35.  The  heat  of  fires  conies  from  the  sun.  ‚Äî  The  carbon 
taken  in  by  plants  becomes,  we  know,  part  of  the 
plants  ;  but  only  with  the  aid  of  sunlight  can  they 
breathe  in  carbon  dioxide  from  Avhich  to  obtain  carbon. 
(¬ß  6.)  The  sun,  then,  is  the  source  of  the  energy  in 
coal ;  we  may  say  that  the  sun  lights  our  fires,  Stephen- 
son, the  inventor  of  the  locomotive,  when  asked  what 
drove  his  engine,  answered,  "  Bottled-up  sunshine." 
He  spoke  the  exact  truth  ;  the  sun's  energy  is  stored 
up  in  coal-mines  until,  with  pick  and  blasting  powder, 
man  sets  it  free. 

36.  Hard  and  soft  coal  ;  buying  coal.  ‚Äî  Hard,  or 
anthracite,  coal  is  the  result  of  almost  perfect  carboni- 
zation of  wood ;  in  soft,  or  bituminous,  coal  the  process 
has  not  gone  so  far.^  The  latter  is  crumbly  and  dull, 
and  burns  with  much  smoke.  Which  yields  the  more 
heat,  i.e.  has  the  more  energy,  hard  or  soft  coal  ?    Hard 

1  Wood  contains  about  50  per  cent  of  carbon,  bituminous  coal  about 
77  per  cent,  antliracite  about  90  per  cent.     All  coal  contains  sulphur. 


22    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

coal  is  best  for  household  use.  A  good  quality  is  jet 
black  and  glossy,  breaks  into  roughly  cube-shaped  pieces, 
is  free  from  slate,  and  yields  little  clinker.  For  a  stove 
with  a  small  fire-box,  use  "chestnut"  coal;  for  most 
ranges  a  mixture  of  "  stove  "  and  "  chestnut "  is  desir- 
able. Too  small  coal  will  fall  between  the  bars  of  the 
grate  before  being  burned.  It  is  prudent  to  buy  a 
year's  supply  of  coal  in  summer,  when  it  is  cheapest  ; 
coal  bought  by  the  pound  or  basket  costs  about  three 
times  as  much  as  if  bought  by  the  ton. 

37.  How  to  save  coal  and  gain  heat.  ‚Äî  Coal  burns  at 
first  with  a  blue  flame,  but  when  thoroughly  afire,  with 
a  clear,  red  glow.  When  white-hot,  almost  all  its  -heat- 
giving  power  has  been  exhausted.  A  good  coal  fire 
consists  of  a  mass  of  red  coals  covered  by  a  layer  of 
black  ones  heating  and  ready  to  kindle  when  the  red 
ones  die  out.  More  heat  is  gotten  from  the  same  quan- 
tity of  coal  by  adding  it  to  the  fire  a  little  at  a  time 
than  by  putting  it  on  all  at  once. 

38.  By  the  first  method  the  coal  gets  sufficient  air  to  be 
burned  to  carbon  dioxide  (CO;,) ;  by  the  second,  much  of  it  is 
burned  to  carbon  monoxide  (CO),  thus  taking  up  only  half  as 
much  oxygen  as  it  is  capable  of  uniting  with,  and  of  course, 
producing  less  heat. 

39.  Kerosene,  or  "  coal-oil,"  prepared  from  the  mineral 
oil  petroleum,  is  the  cheapest  household  fuel,  and  is 
safe  when  of  good  quality  and  when  burned  in  stoves 
intended  for  it.  Never  use  kerosene  to  kindle  a  ivood  or 
coal  fire.  When  heated,  it  gives  off  vapor  that  in  con- 
tact with  fire  is  likely  to  explode. 


PREPARATORY    LESSONS  23 

I  40.    Natural  gas,  used  for  heating  and  ligliting,  flows 

I  from  the  ground.  Both  it  and  coal-oil  are  believed 
to  be  of  vegetable  origin.  What  is  the  source  of  their 
energy  ?     Artificial  gas  is  made  from  coal. 

In  The  Fairyland  of  Science,  you  will  find  an  interesting  chapter, 
illustrated,  on  "  The  History  of  a  Piece  of  Coal."  Coal  and  the 
Coal-mines  tells  all  about  coal,  and  has  pictures  of  Pennsylvania 

I        mines,  plant  forms  found  in  coal,  etc. 

I  Another  good  book  (not  quite  so  simple  as  this)  is  Chemistry  in 

Daily  Life.     For  information  about  primitive  ways  of  obtaining 

i        fire,  and  about  Matches  and  Phosphorus,  see  pp.  17-22;  Petroleum, 

'        pp.  28,  29;  Gas  and  Gas-stoves,  pp.  83-36. 

Chapter  VII  of  Home  Economics  tells  some  things  not  mentioned 

I  in  this  text-book,  about  fuels  and  fires.  Domestic  Science  in  Gram- 
mar Grades  tells  about  "The  Evolution  of  Fire,"  on  p.  29,  and 
about  "  Ancient  Forests  and  Modern  Fuel,"  on  p.  32. 

Section  3.   "Water 

Men  really  know  not  what  good  water's  worth.  ‚Äî Byron. 

41.  Water  in  nature.  ‚Äî Water  occurs  more  commonly 
and  in  larger  quantities  than  any  other  liquid.*  It 
exists  not  only  in  the  ocean  and  in  other  bodies  of 
water,  but  in  plants,  the  bodies  of  men  and  animals, 
and  even  in  rocks  and  other  things  that  seem  quite  dry. 
Air  contains  water ;  some  fruits  consist  of  little  but 
water  and  flavoring,  with  just  enough  solid  matter  to 
give  them  form  ;  our  own  bodies  are  about  three-fifths 
water. 

Water  is  called  "the  universal  carrier."  It  carries 
soil  from  place  to  place,  piling  in  valleys  what  it  washes 
away  from  hills ;  it  bears  seeds  from  one  shore  to  plant 


24    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

them  on  another.  It  is  the  water  in  sap  that  enables  it 
to  flow  through  plants,  carrying  material  to  build  them 
up ;  it  is  the  water  in  blood  that  enables  it  to  do  the 
same  for  the  animal  body.  Without  water  there  is  no 
life ;  a  seed  kept  dry  never  sprouts ;  an  unwatered 
plant  dies. 

Water  as  a  Solvent 

42.  Much  of  the  material  carried  by  water  is  dis- 
solved in  it. 

Experiments  in  solubility.  ‚Äî  A.  Put  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt 
into  a  glass  of  cold  water.  AVhen  the  salt  has  disappeared  taste  the 
water.  Put  another  teaspoonful  into  hot  water.  In  which  does 
the  salt  disappear  more  quickly  ?  Try  the  same  experiment  with 
powdered  chalk. 

Salt  is  soluble  in  water ;  chalk  is  insoluble  in  water. 
Hot  water  dissolves  salt  more  quickly  than  cold  water 
does  ;  that  is,  it  is  a  better  solvent  for  it. 

B.  .Find  out  which  dissolves  faster,  a  whole  lump  of  sugar,  or 
a  lump  broken  into  bits ;  coarse  or  fine  salt. 

Water  dissolves  more  substances  than  any  other 
liquid.  To  this  property  it  owes  much  of  its  carrying 
power.  The  more  finely  divided  a  substance  is  the 
more  rapidly  it  dissolves.      Why  ? 

C.  Boil  some  of  the  salt  solution  till  the  water  is  all  gone ; 
taste  the  residue,  and  tell  what  it  is.i 

1  Sugar  cannot  be  recovered  from  solution  by  boihng  in  the  open 
air ;  it  burns  before  it  becomes  solid.  It  may  be  recovered  by  crystal- 
lization, which  we  shall  learn  about  in  Chapter  IX. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  25 

43.  Pure  water ;    impurities,  organic  and  inorganic.  ‚Äî 

Clean  water  is  colorless,  odorless,  and  nearly  taste- 
less. Its  slight  taste  comes  from  various  substances 
dissolved  in  it.  One  of  these  is  air.  If  a  glass  of 
water  stands  until  the  air  in  it  appears  in  bubbles  on 
the  glass,  it  is  found  to  taste  "flat."  Absolutely  pure 
water  has  no  taste.  Such  water  is  not  found  in  nature. 
That  most  nearly  pure  is  the  rain-water  that  falls  dur- 
ing the  latter  part  of  a  shower.  The  first  rain  to  fall 
carries  down  with  it  dust  and  other  impurities  from 
the  air.  As  water  flows  over  or  soaks  through  the 
ground,  it  dissolves  a  good  deal  of  inorganic  or  mineral 
matter,  with  some  that  is  organic,  that  is  of  plant  or 
animal  origin. 

44.  Living  things,  plants  or  animals,  differ  from  lifeless 
things,  in  being  able  to  feed,  grow,  and  reproduce  them- 
selves. Organs  were  once  supposed  to  be  necessary  for 
these  acts;  and,  in  consequence,  things  once  part  of  an 
animal  or  a  plant,  as  well  as  things  actually  alive,  were 
termed  organic.  Though  we  now  know  that  some  tiny 
living  things  have  no  organs,  we  still  use  the  words  organic 
and  inorganic  to  distinguish  these  two  kinds  of  matter. 
Examples  of  inorganic  matter :  water,  sand,  carbon  dioxide. 
Examples  of  organic  matter :  wood,  perspiration,  leaf -mould, 
manure. 

45.  Soft  water  best  for  cleaning  and  cooking.  ‚Äî Neither 
dirt  nor  soap  dissolves  readily  in  hard  water.  The 
latter  forms  with  it  a  curdy  substance.  For  cleaning 
and  laundry  purposes  hard  water  should  be  softened  by 
the  addition  of  washing  soda  or  ammonia.  A  moderate 
degree  of  hardness  does  not  injure  water  for  drinking 


26 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


purposes.  As  a  rule  soft  water  is  desirable  for  cooking, 
especially  when  the  object  is  to  draw  out  flavor  or 
nourishment  from  food,  as  in  making  soup  or  tea. 

46.    Drinking  water  should  be  pure.  ‚Äî  Much  organic 
matter  in  drinkins^  water  makes  it  unwholesome,  and 


Fig.  3. 

4?  =  cesspool  into  which  drain  empties. 
W=  well  into  which  contents  of  cesspool  run  through  layers  of  sand  and  gravel. 

may  make  it  dangerous.  Most  objectionable  of  organic 
impurities  is  sewage,  which  is  likely  to  contain  disease 
germs.  Wells  are  often  dug  for  convenience  near 
houses.  Figure  3  sIioavs  how  such  a  well  may  be  pol- 
luted by  house  and  stable  waste.  Fortunately,  polluted 
water  tends  to  become  purer  by  filtering  through  the 
ground,  and  by  running  over  its  surface  where  air  can 
reach  it. 

Spring  water  and  water  from  artesian  wells  is  usually 
pure.     City  water,  if  not  from  pure  sources,  should  be 


PREPARATORY    LESSONS 


27 


filtered  through  sand  beds.  Filters  of  charcoal  or  porce- 
lain for  household  use  must  be  kept  clean,  or  they  soon 
become  filled  with  impurities,  making  the  water  passed 
through  them  fouler  instead  of  purer.  Small  filters 
screwed  on  to  faucets  are  of  little  or  no  value.  Drinking 
water  about  the  purity  of  which  there  is  any  doubt 
should  be  boiled  to  kill  germs  (bacteria^.  (¬ß¬ß  57-59.) 
Water  may  dissolve  lead  from  the  pipes  it  runs  through. 
To  avoid  the  risk  of  lead  poisoning,  let  the  water  run 
for  a  few  minutes  ‚Äî  long  enough  for  what  has  stood  in 
the  pipes  over  night  to  run  off  ‚Äî  before  drawing  any 
for  use. 


A  Study  of  the  Effect  of  Heat  on  Water 

47.  Experiment.  ‚Äî  Put  some  water  in  a  saucepan  or  other  ves- 
sel. Take  its  temperature  with  a  thermometer.  Set  it  on  the  stove 
or  over  a  Bunsen  burner,  and 
hold  the  thermometer  so  that 
its  bulb  is  below  the  surface  of 
the  water,  but  not  touching  the 
bottom  of  the  vessel.  (Fig.  4.) 
Watch  the  sides  and  bottom  of 
the  saucepan. 

Are  the  bubbles  large  or 
small  at  first?  After  a  little 
while?  AVhat  comes  off  from 
the  surface  of  the  water  ?  Note 
the  temperature  of  the  water. 
Note  it  again  when  the  bubbles 
begin  to  break  at  the,  surface. 
Does  the  mercury  rise  after  this? 
Increase  the  heat.  Can  you 
make  the  water  any  hotter? 


Fig.  4. 


28    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

48.  The  changing  of  water  into  steam ;  simmering-point 
of  water  185¬∞  F.  ;  boiling-point  212¬∞  F.  ‚Äî  When  water  is 
heated  the  air  dissolved  in  it  expands,  forming  tiny 
bubbles.  These  rise,  but  the  cold  water  near  the  sur- 
face chilling  them,  they  contract,  and  sink  again.  When 
all  the  water  has  become  warm  they  rise  and  escape. 
By  this  time  the  heat  is  beginning  to  change  the  water 
into  steam,  an  invisible  gas.  The  steam  bubbles  are 
larger  than  the  air  bubbles.  As  they  near  the  surface 
of  the  water,  they  are  cooled,  and  condensed,  i.e.  turned 
back  to  water.  This  bubbling  below  the  surface  is 
called  simmering.  ^  The  temperature  of  the  water  is 
now  about  185¬∞  F.  The  water  growing  hotter,  some  of 
the  bubbles  reach  the  surface  and  break  there,  giving 
oiT  clouds  of  steam.  Now,  for  the  first  time,  the 
Avater  boils.  Its  temperature  is  212¬∞  F.  By  increasing 
the  heat  the  water  may  be  made  to  boil  faster,  but  it 
will  not  grow  hotter.  All  the  heat  is  now  being  used 
in  turning  water  into  steam.  If  boiled  long  enough  all 
the  water  turns  to  steam  and  disappears  in  the  air. 
If  steam  be  cooled,  by  coming  against  a  cover,  for 
instance,  it  gives  up  its  heat  and  becomes  water 
again. 

The  word  vapor  is  applied  to  gases  that,  under  ordi- 
nary circumstances,  are  liquid.  Steam,  therefore,  is 
water-vapor. 

1  In  cooking,  it  is  sometimes  important  to  keep  water  simmering ; 
at  other  times  necessary  to  have  it  boiling.  Learn  to  distinguish 
between  these,  When  steam  comes  in  jets  from  the  spout  of  a  tea- 
kettle, the  water  boils. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  29 

49.  The  weight  of  air  pressing  on  the  surface  of  water 
prevents  the  steam  from  escaping  until  it  gains  force  enough 
to  overcome  this  pressure.  At  the  sea  level  water  boils 
at  exactly  212¬∞,  but  on  a  high  mountain  at  a  temperature 
several  degrees  lower.  If  the  steam  be  confined,  water  may 
be  raised  to  several  degrees  above  212¬∞;  for  the  air  under 
the  lid  soon  takes  up  all  the  vapor  it  can  hold,  making  it 
impossible  for  any  more  water  to  be  changed  into  steam. 
The  heat  that  would  otherwise  be  used  in  making  steam  is 
now  saved  and  makes  the  water  hotter. 

50.  Real  steam  is  invisible,  the  mist  we  call  steam 
being  steam  partially  condensed.  The  slow  forming  of 
water-vapor  that  takes  place  at  ordinary  temperatures, 
in  the  drying  of  clothes,  the  disappearance  of  water 
after  a  rain,  and  the  like,  is  called  evaporation. 

51.  Effect  of  cold  on  water.  ‚Äî  At  32¬∞  F.  water  freezes, 
becoming  ice.  At  32¬∞  ice  melts,  forming  water.  By 
heating  it,  ice  may  be  in  a  few  minutes  changed  to 
water,  and  from  water  to  steam.  Do  you  know  of 
anything  else  that  is  changed  from  solid  to  liquid,  and 
from  liquid  to  gas,  by  heat  ? 

52.  Solids,  liquids,  and  gases.  ‚Äî  The  particles  of  which 
a  solid  is  composed  hold  firmly  together,  those  of  a  liquid 
hold  loosely ;  those  of  a  gas  tend  always  to  go  farther 
apart.  Heat  separates  particles  of  matter  ;  on  cooling, 
they  draw  together  again. ^  Hence  we  say,  "Heat 
expands,  cold  contracts."  Hot  air  rises,  because  by 
expanding  it  becomes  thinner  and  lighter. 

1  Exception.  ‚Äî  Water  expands  just  before  it  freezes  ;  hence  the 
bursting  of  pipes. 


30    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

53.  Composition  of  water.  ‚Äî  Water  is  composed  of  hydro- 
gen and  oxygen.  In  what  experiment  was  water  formed? 
Where  did  the  hydrogen  come  from  ?  The  oxygen  ?  Water 
may  be  decomposed  by  sodium,  a  soft  white  metal.  A  bit 
of  this  thrown  upon  water  unites  with  its  oxygen  so  rapidly 
as  to  catch  fire.  The  hydrogen,  ignited  by  this,  burns  also, 
as  is  shown  by  the  appearance  of  the  blue  hydrogen  flame. 

Some  Facts  about  Water  to  be  Remembered 

54.  1.  A  solid  dissolved  in  water  Avill,  in  most  cases, 
be  found  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  after  the  water  has 
evaporated  or  boiled  away. 

2.  Boiling  expels  air  from  water,  making  it  taste 
"  flat."  Boiled  water  should  be  poured  back  and  forth 
several  times  from  one  pitcher  to  another,  or  shaken  in 
a  large  bottle,  to  restore  its  flavor. 

3.  Hard  water  may  be  made  soft  by  boiling. 

4.  Impure  water  may  be  made  safe  for  use  by  boiling. 

5.  Since,  by  ordinary  means,  water  cannot  be  made 
hotter  after  it  begins  to  boil,  fuel  is  wasted  iii  keeping 
up  more  fire  than  is  required  just  to  keep  the  water  at  the 
hoiling-point. 

6.  By  covering  the  vessel  some  of  the  steam  is  con- 
densed, thereby  saving  heat. 

55.  Water  in  relation  to  health;  drinking  freely  of 
pure  water  makes  for  health.  ‚Äî  The  water  we  drink  or 
take  in  as  part  of  our  food  aids  digestion,  conveys 
nourishment  to  all  parts  of  the  body,  removes  waste, 
and  in  other  ways  keeps  the  body  in  order.  Large 
quantities  of  cold  water  should  not  be  drunk  when  one 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  31 

is  overheated;    nor  should  water  or  any  other  liquid 
be  used  to  wash  down  solid  food. 

Suggestions  for  reading  and  home  work  in  connection  with  this 
section.  ‚Äî  Read  in  Early  Chapters  in  Science  about  thermometers, 
pp.  241-24:4;  and  about  the  density  of  ice,  pp.  250,  251.  Try  dis- 
tilling water  and  crystallizing  alum  according  to  directions  on  pp. 
231  and  236.  See  what  Dr.  Prudden  writes  in  his  little  book, 
Drinking-water  and  Ice  Supplies,  about  *'  The  Earth's  Stock  of 
Water,"  pp.  12-15;  "Kinds  of  Water,"  pp.  31-37;  "Some  Ways 
of  Getting  Water,"  pp.  78-89;  and  "Solid  Water"  pp.  115-125. 
This  last  chapter  tells  how  ice  is  cut  and  stored. 

Section  4.    Cleanliness  and  Cleaning 

All  things  of  thee  partake. 

Nothing  can  be  so  mean 
But  with  this  tincture,  For  Th>j  sake, 

It  will  be  bright  and  clean. 

A  servant  by  this  clause 

Makes  drudgery  divine  ; 
Who  sweeps  a  room  as  by  Thy  laws, 

Makes  that  and  the  action  fine. 

‚Äî  George  Herbert. 

56.  Pure  air  and  pure  water  we  have  seen  to  be 
simply  clean  air  and  clean  water.  The  importance  of 
cleanliness  is  better  understood  than  ever  before,  now 
that  scientists  have  shown  the  close  relation  between 
dirt  and  disease.  The  dirt  that  shows  most  plainly 
may  not  be  the  most  objectionable.  A  dusty  chair  is 
of  much  less  consequence  than  an  unclean  dish-cloth. 

57.  Two  kinds  of  dust:  living  and  lifeless;  bacteria. 
‚Äî  The  dirt  in  houses  consists  for  the  most  part  of  dust, 


32 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


both  alone  and  mixed  with  grease  (fatty  matter),  mois- 
ture, and  sticky  substances.  Dust  is  earth  or  other  matter 
in  particles  so  fine  that  it  can  he  raised  and  carried  hy 
the  wind.  Dust  is  everywhere  present.  We  see  how 
quickly  it  gathers  on  the  floor  and  the  furniture ;  a 
sunbeam  shows  us  that  the  air  is  full  of  it.  This  visible 
dust  was  for  a  long  time  the  only  kind  known  about. 
It  has  been  discovered,  however,  that  mixed  with  visi- 
ble dust  is  another  kind,  so  fine  that  it  can  be  seen  only 


Fig. 


Two  kinds  of  mould  often  found  on  food. 


with  a  microscope.  This  invisible  dust  is  composed  of 
tiny  plants  and  their  seeds,  or  spores.  When  these 
spores  fall  upon  suitable  material  they  grow.  When 
enough  plants  are  growing  together  they  can  be  seen 
with  the  naked  eye. 

58-  Experiments. ‚Äî A.  Expose  a  piece  of  bread  or  cheese,  or 
some  cooked  fruit,  to  the  air  for  a  few  days,  covering  it  to  keep  it 
moist.     What  appears  on  the  surface  ? 

B.    Examine  this  growth  with  a  magnifying-glass  or  microscope. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  33 

Microscopic  plants  are  of  three  kinds,  moulds,  yeasts, 
and  bacteria  (singular  bacterium^  rarely  used).  They 
will  be  studied  in  other  chapters. 

59.  Bacteria  the  most  objectionable  kind  of  dust.  ‚Äî  Vis- 
ible dust  may  do  harm  by  irritating  the  throat  and 
lungs  ;  but  certain  kinds  of  bacteria,  if  they  enter  the 
body,  may  produce  such  diseases  as  consumption,  diph- 
theria, and  typhoid  fever.  Other  kinds  cause  food  to 
spoil.  Bacteria  thrive  best  in  dark,  damp  places,  where 
other  dirt  is  present.  Anything  that  kills  bacteria  or 
hinders  their  growth  is  called  a  disinfectant. 

Natural  Aids  to  Cleanness 

60.  Light,  air,  and  water.  ‚Äî  Light  promotes  cleanness 
by  revealing  the  visible  dirt  and  destroying  the  invis- 
ible. Direct  sunlight  is  a  better  disinfectant  than  mere 
daylight.  A  draft  of  air  removes  dust,  smoke,  and 
watery  or  greasy  vapors,  which  combine  with  air  to  coat 
surfaces  with  an  unclean  film.  It  is  impossible  to  live 
in  a  cleanly  manner  without  a  liberal  use  of  water. 
Water  is  useful  for  cleaning  on  account  of  its  power  as 
a  solvent  (¬ß  42). 

Friction  is  required  to  remove  soil  closely  attached  to 
a  surface  or  ingrained  in  the  material. 

Artificial  Aids  to  Cleanness  (Plate  II). 

61.  Implements  and  materials  for  cleaning. ‚Äî The  im- 
plements for  cleaning  include  brooms,  brushes,  cloths, 
pails,  etc.     Cleansing  materials  are  of  two  sorts,  those 


34    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

that  act  mechanically  by  friction,  and  those  that  act 
chemically  upon  dirt  removed  with  difficulty  or  not  at 
all  by  water  ;  for  example,  grease  and  stains.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  use  implements  and  materials  that  will 
remove  the  soil  without  injuring  the  surface  beneath  it. 

Cleaning^  powders.  ‚Äî  For  additional  friction  mineral 
powders  are  employed.  White  sand  is  used  for  scouring 
iron  and  wood  ;  bath  brick  for  steel  knives  ;  tripoli  or 
rottenstone  for  copper,  brass,  or  tin;  whiting  for  silver, 
aluminum,  and  brass. 

62.  Bath  brick  is  made  from  earth  containing  lime. 
Tripoli  is  impure  decayed  limestone.  Rottenstone  is  a  fine 
kind  of  tripoli.  Whiting  is  powdered  English  chalk  made 
very  fine  by  sifting  it  through  muslin,  or  by  floating  it  on 
water  so  that  the  heavier  particles  may  sink. 

63.  Alkalies;  the  removal  of  grease.  ‚Äî Most  important 
of  chemical  cleaning  materials  are  certain  alkalies,  those, 
most  commonly  used  being  soda  (also  called  sal-soda  and 
washing-soda)  and  ammonia.  The  former  is  much  the 
stronger.  Potash,  or  lye,  an  alkali  similar  to  soda,  was 
much  used  before  soda  became  cheap  enough  to  drive  it 
out  of  the  market.  1  By  means  of  these,  grease  can  be 
removed,  since  any  alkali  unites  with  grease  to  form  a 
compound  soluble  in  water. 

64.  How  soap  cleans.  ‚Äî  Soap  is  a  preparation  of  alkali 
in  a  convenient  form.  It  is  a  compound  of  soda  or 
potash  with  acids  found  in  fat.     Potash  makes  soft  soap ; 

1 A  compound  sold  in  round  cans  labelled  "  potash  "  is  simply  com- 
mercial caustic  soda. 


PLATE  II. 


Materials  used  ix  Cleaning. 


Implements  and  Materials  used  in  Cleaning. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  35 

soda,  or  potash  to  which  salt  has  been  added,  hard  soap. 
Water  decomposes  the  soap,  and  the  alkali  thus  set  free 
attacks  any  grease  it  touches.  Any  dust  mixed  with 
this  grease  can  then  be  washed  away.  Soap  and  water 
is  effective  for  almost  all  cleaning  purposes. 

65.  Sal-soda  ;  care  in  using  it.  ‚Äî  If  a  stronger  form 
of  alkali  is  needed,  sal-soda  is  the  best  for  general  use. 
Being  cheap,  it  forms  the  basis  of  most  washing-powders 
and  compounds.  As  these  are  often  sold  for  many 
times  their  value,  it  is  more  economical  to  buy  the  soda 
itself.  On  account  of  its  powerful  action  upon  the 
skin  it  must  be  used  with  care.  Do  not  add  soda  directly 
to  the  washing -water  ^  hut  dissolve  one  pound  of  it  in  one 
quart  of  ivater^  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire.  When  it  is 
cool  put  it  in  a  bottle  labelled  "  Sal-soda  Solution,"  and 
pour  in  a  little  when  needed. 

66.  Ammonia  is  used  chiefly  in  laundry- work.  It 
may  be  used  instead  of  sal-soda  for  general  cleaning. 
(For  the  use  of  alkalies  with  hard  water,  see  ¬ß  45.) 

Kerosene.  ‚Äî  Kerosene  is  useful  for  cleaning  polished 
woods  which  would  be  injured  by  alkalies.  Kerosene 
and  alkalies  are  both  excellent  disinfectants. 

Cleaning  Metals 

67-  Experiments.  ‚Äî  A.  Let  a  piece  of  iron  lie  wet  in  the  air  for 
several  hours.  Pour  a  little  water  into  an  old  worn  tin  dish  ;  allow 
a  few  drops  of  water  to  fall  on  a  steel  knife-blade;  and  let  dish 
and  knife  lie  for  some  time.  What  do  you  observe?  Has  the  tin 
rusted  ?     How  can  we  keep  steel  from  rusting  ? 


36    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

B.  Lay  one  silver  spoon  next  to  a  rubber  band.  Wrap  another 
in  white  flannel.  Lay  a  bright  brass  button  in  a  dry  place.  Wrap 
another  in  damp  cloth.  Examine  all  these  after  a  day  or  two. 
Would  you  approve  of  keeping  silver  wrapped  in  white  flannel  ? 
What  effect  has  dampness  on  brass  ? 

68.  Tarnish  and  rust.^  ‚Äî  Rust  is  a  compound  formed  in 
the  presence  of  moisture,  by  the  union  of  the  oxygen  of 
the  air  with  iron  (¬ß  103).  Tarnish  is  a  discoloration  of 
polished  metals  caused  by  the  action  of  oxygen,  sulphur, 
or  some  other  element  upon  the  metal.  The  sulphur 
used  in  making  rubber  and  in  bleaching  cloth,  and  the 
sulphurous  gases  from  burning  coal  or  gas,  form  with 
silver  a  grayish  black  compound  insoluble  in  water. 

69.  C.  Try  to  remove  the  tarnish  from  silver  with  whiting, 
with  alcohol ;  from  brass  with  rottenstone,  with  rottenstone  and 
water,  with  rottenstone  and  oil,  with  vinegar  or  lemon-juice.  Com- 
pare the  effectiveness  of  the  various  materials. 

70.  Removal  of  tarnish.  ‚Äî  Labor  is  saved  by  using  an 
acid  or  other  substance  that  will  act  chemically  on  the 
tarnish,  dissolving  it.^  A  mineral  powder  completes 
the  work  and  adds  polish.  Oil,  water,  or  acid,  ‚Äî  lemon- 
juice  or  vinegar,  ‚Äî  mixed  with  the  powder,  forms  a 
paste  easy  to  apply.  The  cleaning  preparations  in  the 
market  are  the  substances  described  above,  or  combina- 
tions of  them,  sometimes  with  the  addition  of  coloring- 
matter. 

1  Tarnish  and  rust,  although,  strictly  speaking,  not  dirt,  are  re- 
moved by  similar  means,  and  are  therefore  conveniently  treated  of 
here. 

2  It  is  not  always  safe  to  use  a  chemical,  although  it  may  be  easier. 
For  instance,  any  chemical  that  brightens  zinc  eats  into  it. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  37 

71.  Putz  pomade  is  a  mixture  of  whiting,  oil,  and  acid. 
Sapolio  is  a  compound  of  fine  clay,  alkali,  and  fat.  Most 
silver-powders  are  simply  whiting.  Stove-blacking  is  made 
of  graphite  mixed  with  molasses  or  other  sticky  substance. 

Care  of  Floor  and  Woodwork 

72.  Care  of  kitchen  floor.  ‚Äî  The  best  kitchen  floor  is 
of  hard  wood,  oiled  or  varnished.  If  anything  is  spilled 
upon  it,  wipe  or  brush  it  up  at  once.  Cover  grease- 
spots  on  wood  or  stone  with  flour,  starch,  or  powdered 
chalk,  which  will  absorb  the  grease.  Cold  water  poured 
upon  grease  as  soon  as  it  is  spilled  will  harden  it ;  the 
greater  part  may  then  be  scraped  off.  Sweep  the 
kitchen  floor  thoroughly  once  a  day.  With  care  it  will 
not  need  washing  or  scrubbing  oftener  than  once  a  week. 

73.  How  to  sweep.  ‚Äî  Before  beginning  to  sweep,  see 
that  no  food  is  left  uncovered  in  the  room.  Sweep  from 
the  edges  of  the  room  toward  the  centre.  Sweep  with 
short  strokes,  keeping  the  broom  close  to  the  floor. 
Turn  it  edgewise  to  clean  cracks.  When  the  dust  has 
been  gathered  at  one  spot,  take  it  up  with  a  short 
broom  and  a  dust-pan,  and,  if  possible,  burn  it  at  once. 
Never  sweep  dust  from  one  room  into  another.  Always 
siveep  a  floor  before  washing  or  scrubbing  it. 

74.  How  to  scrub  a  floor.  ‚Äî  Soft-wood  floors  must  be 
scrubbed.  Provide  two  pails  of  cold  or  lukewarm 
water,  a  stiff  scrubbing-brush,  a  large,  soft,  but  not 
linty  cloth,  and  soft  soap  and  sand,  or  sand-soap.  Dip 
the  brush  in  water,  then  in  soap,  and  lastly  in  sand. 


38    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Look  for  grease-spots  and  take  them  out  first.  After  the 
floor  lias  become  wet  you  cannot  see  where  they  are. 
Scrub  with  the  grain  of  the  wood,  doing  a  few  square 
feet  at  a  time.  Dip  the  cloth  in  clean  water,  and  wash 
the  part  that  has  been  scrubbed.  Use  no  more  water 
than  you  need.  Wet  the  cloth  again,  wring  it  as  dry  as 
you  can,  and  wipe  the  floor.  Proceed  in  this  way  until 
the  whole  floor  has  been  cleaned. 

75.  Care  of  hard-wood  floor.  ‚Äî  On  a  hard-wood  floor  use 
little  water  or  none  at  all.  Wipe  it  with  a  cloth  mois- 
tened with  a  very  little  kerosene,  ‚Äî  a  teaspoonful  or  two 
to  begin  with,  and  as  much  more  when  that  has  evapo- 
rated. Rub  hard  with  another  cloth  until  the  wood  is 
perfectly  dry.  Window-sills  and  all  hard-wood  finish 
may  be  cleaned  in  the  same  way. 

76.  Care  of  oil-cloth.  ‚Äî  Wash  oil-cloth  with  warm 
water  and  milk,  ‚Äî  one  cupful  of  skim-milk  to  one  gallon 
of  water ^  ‚Äî  and  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 

77.  Cleaning  paint.  ‚Äî  To  clean  paint,  provide  whiting, 
two  basins  or  pails  of  water,  and  three  clean,  soft  cloths, 
‚Äî woollen  is  best.  Take  a  little  whiting  on  a  damp  cloth, 
and  rub  it  on  the  surface  to  be  cleaned.  Do  not  let 
drops  of  water  trickle  down  the  paint.  Wash  off  with 
a  second  cloth  and  clean  water.  Wipe  dry  with  a  third 
cloth.  Clean  a  little  at  a  time,  leaving  the  cleaned 
part  dry  before  going  on. 

78.  Dusting.  ‚Äî After  sweeping  a  room  dust  the  wood- 
work, furniture,  and  movable  articles  with  a  soft  cotton 


PLATE   III. 

;HHj.ir         ^ 

HHHI|Bl\,       m   ililliPi 

!l 

The  Sink  and  its  Fittings. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  39 

cloth.  Spread  the  cloth  out  and  gather  the  dust  into 
it,  folding  it  in  as  you  work.  Shake  it  frequently  out 
of  the  window.  In  the  kitchen  where  there  are  no 
delicate  articles  to  be  injured  by  moisture,  use  a  damp 
cloth.  To  have  it  just  damp  enough,  wet  a  part  of  it, 
wring  this  out,  fold  the  damp  part  and  the  dry  together, 
and  squeeze  them.  When  the  room  has  been  dusted, 
wash  the  cloth  and  hang  it  to  dry. 

The  Sink  and  its  Fittings  (Plate  III) 

79.  Construction  of  the  sink ;  the  trap.  ‚Äî  Soapstone 
and  enamelled  iron  are  the  best  materials  for  a  sink. 
Wood  is  least  desirable,  because  hardest  to  keep  clean. 
The  space  below  the  sink  should  be  left  open.  The  sink 
should  slope  down  toward  the  waste-pipe.  The  waste- 
pipe  should  have  a  bend  in  it  that  will  allow  water  to 
stand  in  it  deep  enough  to  prevent  gases  from  passing 
up  from  the  drain  into  the  kitchen.  This  bend  is  called 
a  trap.  The  water  it  contains  is  called  a  water-seal. 
(T,  Fig.  6  A) 

After  pouring  soiled  water  down  the  waste-pipe, 
follow  it  with  clean  water,  so  that  foul  water  shall  not 
stand  in  the  trap.  If  a  sink  is  left  unused  for  several 
days  or  longer,  the  water-seal  may  evaporate  so  that 
gases  from  the  drain  rise  into  the  room.  On  this 
account  a  house  that  has  been  vacant  should  be  well 
aired  before  being  occupied. 

80.  Sink-fixtures  and  conveniences.  ‚Äî  There  should  be 
a  strainer,  screwed  down  over  the  top  of  the  waste-pipe. 


40 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

VP 

A 


W 


^jSink  properly  trapped  and  connected  with  sewer;    5,  Sink  improperly  connected 

with  sewer. 


Si  =  sink 
T  =  trap 


W  =  waste-pipe.  VP  =  vent-pipe. 

S  =  sewer.  H  D  =  house-drain, 

C  =  connection  of  waste-pipe  with  drain. 
Arrows  show  direction  of  current  of  sewer-gas. 


PREPARATORY    LESSONS  41 

It  is  well  to  have  a  finer  strainer  also,  through  which 
to  pour  waste-water.  This,  by  catching  crumbs  which 
might  pass  through  the  set  strainer,  helps  to  keep  the 
sink  clean.  A  grooved  draining-board,  sloped  toward  the 
sink,  and  a  shelf  above  the  sink  for  cleaning  materials, 
are  convenient.  There  should  be  hooks  for  hand-basin, 
dipper,  soap-saver,  sink-scraper,  and  scrubbing-brush. 
The  garbag^e-pail  should  be  of  metal,  or  indurated  fibre. 
Its  cover  should  fit  tightly. 

81.  Care  of  the  sink.  ‚Äî  Neglect  of  the  sink  causes  bad 
odors,  attracts  water-bugs  and  roaches,  and  not  infre- 
quently produces  disease.  Keep  it  at  all  tiines  free  from 
scraps.  When  the  dishes  have  been  washed,  or  when 
the  sink  is  to  be  left  unused  for  several  hours,  wash  it, 
using  scrubbing-brush  and  sapolio.  Wipe  the  wood- 
work and  tiling.  Wash  strainer,  soap-dish,  and  other 
sink  utensils.  Wash  the  cloth.  Scrub  the  draining- 
board,  and  rinse  the  sink.  If  it  is  of  iron,  and  is  to 
be  left  for  several  hours,  wipe  it  dry.  If  rusty,  use 
kerosene,  or  grease  it  with  mutton-fat  or  lard,  sprinkle 
with  lime,  and  leave  over  night. 

82.  Care  of  faucets.  ‚Äî  Clean  brass  faucets  with  flannel 
dipped  in  vinegar  or  lemon-juice,  and  rub  thoroughly 
with  rottenstone  and  oil,  then  polish  with  a  dry  cloth. 
Or  apply  putz  pomade  or  some  similar  preparation,  rub 
off  with  another  cloth,  and  polish  with  a  third  one.  If 
the  faucets  are  greas}^  wash  them  with  soap-suds  or  sal- 
soda  solution  before  using  anything  else.  Metal  cleaned 
with  acid  tarnishes  quickly  unless  all  trace  of  the  acid 


42    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

is  removed  by  rubbing  with  powder.  (¬ß  105.)  Nickel 
faucets  and  trimming^s  need  only  to  be  washed  with  hot 
soap-suds  and  wiped  dry. 

83.  Care  of  waste-pipe  and  trap. ‚Äî Waste-pipe  and 
trap  must  be  kept  as  free  as  possible  from  deposits  of 
grease.  After  pouring  down  very  greasy  water  pour 
down  boiling  water,  that  the  grease  may  not  cool  and 
settle  on  the  sides  of  the  waste-pipe.  Once  a  week 
pour  down  a  strong  hot  solution  of  sal-soda  (one-half 
cupful  of  soda  to  two  quarts  of  water^.  If  the  pipe 
becomes  clogged  use  a  stronger  solution. 

84.  Care  of  garbage-pail.^  ‚Äî  Scrub  the  garbage-pail 
with  sal-soda  and  rinse  with  boiling  water  once  a  day. 
Dry  it  in  the  sunshine,  if  possible. 

Care  of  Dishes 

85.  Dish-washing  need  not  be  an  unpleasant  task  if 
these  four  rules  are  observed  :  1.  Use  hot  soapy  water. 
2.  Change  the  water  frequently.  3.  Have  the  dishes 
free  from  crumbs  and  scraps  before  beginning  to  wash 
them.    4.   Wash  kettles  and  other  cooking  utensils  first. 

86.  Directions    for    dish-washing.      Preparation. ‚Äî 1. 

Collect  all  dishes  to  be  washed.  2.  Scrape  them,  put- 
ting scraps  in  an  earthenware  or  enamelled  dish ;  wipe 
frying-pans  and  other  greasy  dishes  with  pieces  of  soft 
paper.     This  paper  may  be  used  for  kindling.      3.    Fill 

1  It  is  better  to  avoid  using  a  garbage-pail.  Garbage  may  be  burned 
in  a  bright  fire  if  all  the  drafts  are  left  open. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  43 

greasy  pots  and  pans  with  hot  water  to  which  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sal-soda  has  been  added,  and  let  them  stand. 
Soak  dishes  that  have  contained  batter,  dough,  eggs,  or 
any  starchy  material  in  cold  water  ;‚Ä¢  dishes  that  have 
been  used  to  cook  sugar,  in  hot  water.  4.  Put  all 
dishes  of  a  kind  together ;  plates  in  piles,  knives,  forks, 
and  spoons  laid  with  handles  one  way,  etc.  Place  near- 
est to  you  the  dishes  to  be  washed  first.  5.  Have  a 
clean  dry  place  clear  for  clean  dishes.  6.  Make  ready 
two  pans,  ‚Äî  one  half  full  of  hot  soapy  water,  and  the 
other  half  full  of  clear  hot  water. 

87.  Washing. ‚Äî 7.  Wash  the  dishes  in  the  follow- 
ing order :  a.  Large  kettles  and  cooking  utensils. 
h.  Smaller  articles  of  kitchenware.  c.  (With  clean 
water  and  dish-cloth)  glassware,  d.  Silver,  e.  Cups 
and  saucers.  /.  Plates,  g.  Platters,  vegetable  dishes, 
etc. 

88.  General  instructions.  ‚Äî  8.  Wash  all  dishes,  includ- 
ing kettles,  inside  and  out,  in  soapy  water  ;  rinse  in 
clear  water,  drain,  and  wipe  dry.  9.  Use  sapolio  to 
remove  food  that  sticks  or  is  burnt  on.  10.  Use  a  wire 
dish-cloth  on  ironware,  a  scrubbing-brush,  if  necessary, 
on  enamelled  ware,  tinware,  and  wire  strainers.  Clean 
seams  in  tinware  and  enamelled  ware  with  a  wooden 
skewer. 

89.  Special  instructions. ‚Äî 11.  Do  not  put  knife- 
handles  in  water.  Water  discolors  and  cracks  ivory 
and  bone  handles,  and  may  loosen  wooden  ones.      After 


44    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

washing  knives,  scour  them  with  bath  brick.  12.  Do 
not  wash  bread-board  or  rolling-pin  at  an  iron  sink.  The 
iron  will  leave  marks  on  them.  Wash  them  at  the 
table.  13.  Be  careful  not  to  wet  the  cogs  of  a  Dover 
egg-beater.  Wash  the  lower  part,  and  wipe  off  the 
handle  with  a  damp  cloth.  Water  washes  the  oil  from 
the  cogs,  thus  making  the  beater  hard  to  turn.  14.  Dry 
the  seams  of  a  double-boiler  carefully.  15.  Do  not  waste 
time  polishing  tins.  It  is  sufficient  to  have  them  clean 
and  dry. 

16.  Dip  glasses  into  hot  water,  so  that  they  will 
be  wet  inside  and  outside  at  the  same  time.  Unequal 
expansion  of  the  glass,  caused  by  one  part  being  heated 
suddenly,  is  what  breaks  them.  17.  Silver  and  glass 
are  brightest  if  wiped  directly  from  clean,  hot  suds, 
without  being  rinsed.  A  damp  towel  makes  dull 
spoons  and  glasses.  18.  Scald,  i.e.  rinse  with  boiling 
water  all  vessels  that  have  contained  milk.  19.  Wash 
teapot  and  coffee-pot  in  clean  hot  water  without  soap, 
and  wipe  dry.  Clean  the  spout  carefully.  Let  them 
stand  for  a  while  with  covers  off.  20.  Wash  dish-pan 
and  rinsing-pan,  and  wipe  dry  with  a  towel,  not  with 
the  dish-doth. 

For  care  of  towels  and  sink,  see  ¬ß¬ß81  and  92. 

90.  To  scour  steel  knives.  ‚Äî  Scrape  off  a  little  bath 
brick  with  the  hack  of  the  knife  or  with  an  old  knife. 
Dip  a  cork  in  water  or  oil,  and  then  in  the  brick-dust. 
Hold  the  knife  firmly,  with  the  blade  resting  flat  upon 
a  level  surface,  and  rub  both  sides  of  the  blade  with  the 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS 


45 


cork.  (Fig.  7.)  Wash  the  knife.  Scour  steel  forks 
in  the  same  way.  Never  scour  silver-plated  knives  or 
forks. 


Fig.  7. 

91.  To  clean  silverware.  ‚Äî  Moisten  a  soft  cloth 
with  water,  dip  it  in  fine  whiting,  and  apply  to  the 
silver.  When  the  whiting  has  dried,  rub  it  off  with 
another  soft  cloth,  and  polish  with  chamois-skin.  To 
cleanse  chasing  or  ornamental  work,  use  an  old  tooth- 
brush. Rub  egg-stained  spoons  and  other  badly 
tarnished  articles  with  salt  before  washing  them.  Wash 
in  ammonia  and  water. 

Tarnish  is  not  soluble,  but  with  the  chlorine  in  the 
salt  it  forms  a  new  compound  soluble  in  ammonia. 
(¬ß  102  and  ¬ß  104.) 


Care  of  Kitchen  Towels  and  Cloths 

92.  Dish-cloths,  dish-towels,  and  sink-cloths  should 
be  hemmed.  Lint  and  threads  from  unhemmed  cloths 
are  likely  to  obstruct  the  sink  drain.  Use  each  cloth 
only  for  the  purpose  for  ivhich  it  is  intended. 


46    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

93.  The  dish-cloth.  ‚Äî  No  detail  of  housekeeping  is 
more  important  than  keeping  the  dish-cloth  clean.  A 
damp,  sticky,  greasy  dish-cloth  breeds  disease.  The 
disease  germs  on  the  cloth  are  transferred  to  the  dishes, 
and  from  them  to  the  people  who  eat  from  them.  In 
this  way  a  whole  family  has  sometimes  been  made  sick. 
Wash  the  dish-cloth  with  hot  water  and  soap  after  using 
it.  Rinse  it,  shake  it  out,  and  hang  it  to  dry,  ‚Äî  in  the 
sun,  if  possible.  Boil  it  once  a  week,  or  whenever 
washing  fails  to  make  it  white.  Never  use  it  for  any- 
thing except  washiyig  dishes. 

94.  Other  cloths.  ‚Äî  Wash  dish-towels  once  a  day  in 
warm  water,  using  soap.  Rinse  them  in  warm  or  cold 
water,  and  hang  them  to  dry  with  the  ends  pulled 
evenly  together.  Strainer-cloths  that  are  not  greasy 
may  be  washed  in  cold  water.  Wash  greasy  ones  in 
hot  water  with  soap  or  sal-soda.  To  remove  fruit  stains 
from  a  cloth,  lay  it  over  a  bowl  and  pour  boiling  water 
upon  the  stain.  All  cleaning-cloths  should  be  washed, 
rinsed,  and  dried  after  being  used. 

Care  of  Stove  and  Zinc 

95.  If  anything  is  spilled  on  the  stove  or  rang^e,  wipe 
it  off  at  once  with  soft  paper.  Use  sapolio  to  remove 
anything  not  taken  off  by  the  paper.  To  keep  it  black 
and  clean,  Avipe  it  daily  with  a  few  drops  of  kerosene 
on  a  cloth.  Polishing  is  unnecessary  ;  but  if  you  prefer 
to  polish  it,  apply  stove-blacking  just  after  the  fire  has 
been  started,  and  polish  with  a  brush  or  coarse  cloth. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  47 

Zinc  discolors  easily.  Even  a  drop  of  water  allowed 
to  stand  on  it  will  make  a  spot.  It  may  be  cleaned 
with  a  little  kerosene  rubbed  on  with  a  flannel,  or 
with  electro-silicon  on  a  damp  cloth.  Polish  with  dry 
flannel. 

Care  of  Refrigekator 

96.  The  waste-pipe  of  the  refrigerator  or  ice-box  should 
empty  into  a  pan,  or  into  the  open  end  of  a  properly 
trapped  drain-pipe ;  it  should  never  be  continuous  with 
the  drain-pipe,  such  an  arrangement  making  easy  the 
passage  of  sewer  gas  into  the  refrigerator. 

Daily  care.  ‚Äî  Keep  the  inside  of  the  food  chamber  dry. 
See  that  no  food  remains  in  the  refrigerator  long  enough 
to  spoil.     Empty  the  pan,  if  there  is  one,  every  day. 

Weekly  cleaning.  ‚Äî  Qlean  the  refrigerator  thoroughly  at 
least  once  a  week.  Take  out  both  food  and  ice.  Wash 
shelves  and  racks  with  hot  soapsuds  or  with  sal-soda 
solution,  and  rinse  with  clear  hot  water.  Dry  them  in 
the  open  air  or  by  the  fire.  Wash  the  food  chamber 
and  the  air  chamber  in  the  same  way.  Clean  grooves 
and  corners  with  a  skewer,  and  run  a  wire  with  a  cloth 
twisted  around  it  down  the  waste-pipe.  Rinse  the  pipe 
with  hot  sal-soda  solution.  Wipe  the  refrigerator  dry  ; 
and  if  possible,  let  it  remain  open  for  an  hour. 

Care  of  Articles  used  in  Cleaning 

97.  Rinse  scrubbing-brushes  and  dry  them  in  the  sun, 
bristles  down.  Hang  up  brooms,  when  not  in  use,  by 
strings  tied  into  the  handles.       Do  not  waste  soap  by 


48    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

leaving  it  in  water.  Keep  knife-cleaning  materials  in 
one  box,  silver-polishing  materials  in  another,  etc.  See 
that  all  things  used  in  cleaning  are  kept  clean. 

Treatment  for  Insects 

98.  To  have  a  kitchen  free  from  cockroaches  and 
water-bugs,  keep  every  part  of  it  clean  and  dry,  and  leave 
no  uncovered  food,  soiled  dishes,  garbage,  or  crumbs 
about.  To  destroy  the  pests,  dissolve  one  pound  of  alum 
in  three  pints  of  hot  water,  and  pour  the  solution  while 
hot  into  cracks  and  crevices.  Also  sprinkle  borax  in 
all  places  where  the  insects  have  been  seen. 

Personal  Cleanliness 

99.  Observe  the  following  rules  in  the  school  kitchen 
and  at  home  :  ‚Äî 

1.  When  cooking,  or  doing  other  housework,  wear  a 
washable  gown  short  enough  to  clear  the  floor  by  at 
least  two  inches. 

2.  When  in  the  kitchen,  pin  or  tie  your  hair  back  so 
that  no  hairs  may  fall  into  the  food.  When  sweeping, 
cover  it  with  a  cap  or  kerchief  to  protect  it  from  dust. 

3.  Wear  no  rings  or  bracelets  in  the  kitchen. 

4.  Before  touching  or  preparing  any  food,  wash  your 
hands  thoroughly  with  soap  and  water  ;  scrub  the  nails 
with  a  nail  brush,  and  clean  them  with  a  wooden  tooth- 
pick or  a  regular  nail  cleaner. 

5.  Keep  a  damp  towel  at  hand,  on  which  to  wipe 
your  fingers  if  they  become  soiled  or  sticky.     Always 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  49 

wipe  them  after  touching  your  hair  or  pocket  handker- 
chief, or  after  handling  the  coal-hod,  or  anything  else 
not  quite  clean.  Never  wipe  them  on  your  apron,  your 
handkerchief,  or  on  a  dish-towel. 

6.  Never  dry  dishes  with  a  hand-towel. 

7.  The  best  way  to  taste  of  what  you  are  cooking  is 
to  take  a  little  of  the  food  up  with  the  mixing-spoon, 
put  it  in  a  teaspoon,  and  taste  from  the  teaspoon.  If 
you  should  happen  to  taste  from  the  mixing-spoon,  wash 
it  before  putting  it  back  into  the  dish. 


of 


The  history  of  soap  and  the  process  of  soap-making  are  written 
in  Chemistry  of  Daily  Life,  pp.  204-213. 


Section  5.    Matter:  its  Nature  and  Changes 

The  chemistry  of  cooking  is  largely  .  .  .  the  application  of  heat 
to  the  food  material  in  such  a  way  as  to  bring  about  the  right  changes 
and  only  these.  ‚Äî Ellen  H.  Richards. 

100.  We  have  seen  that  familiar  substances  may  undergo 
great  changes.  The  burning  candle  changes  from  an  opaque 
white  solid  to  a  translucent  liquid,  and  then  to  a  mixture  of 
invisible  gases.  Salt,  upon  being  mixed  with  water,  becomes 
a  clear  liquid  not  distinguishable  from  water  itself.  The 
solid  carbon  of  wood  and  the  gas  oxygen  unite  to  form  car- 
bon dioxide,  a  gas  quite  different  from  oxygen ;  and  when 
the  action  is  over,  a  handful  of  gray  ashes  is  all  the  solid 
substance  left.  Heat  readily  changes  ice  to  water,  and 
water  to  steam. 

We  are  so  used  to  these  happenings  that  they  excite  in  us 
no  wonder ;  yet,  for  hundreds  of  years  men  have  been  study- 
ing these  and  similar  changes  without  finding  out  all  there 
is  to  be  known  about  them.  So  important  is  the  part  they 
play  in   our  everyday  work,    especially  in  cooking,  that  a 


50    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

knowledge  of  the  simpler  facts  about  them  is  a  great  help 
to  housekeepers. 

101.  Physical  and  chemical  changes.  ‚Äî  Liquid  candle 
grease  returns  to  the  solid  form  when  cooled ;  dissolved  salt 
may  be  recovered  by  evaporating  the  water ;  even  steam 
may  be  collected,  condensed,  and  frozen.  In  these  cases  it 
is  plain  that  the  changes  are  only  changes  in  form.  A 
change  in  the  form  of  matter  without  change  in  its  composi- 
tion is  called  a  physical  change.  When,  however,  melted 
candle  grease  becomes  gaseous,  it  will  not  return  to  its  origi- 
nal form ;  burnt  sugar  will  never  be  sweet  and  white  again ; 
water  acted  upon  by  sodium  is  neither  water,  steam,  nor  ice. 
In  these  cases  the  new  substance  has  a  different  composition 
from  the  old  one.  A  change  in  the  composition  of  matter  is 
called  a  chemical  change.  Heat,  especially  in  the  presence 
of  moisture,  often  brings  about  chemical  changes. 

102.  Elements  and  compounds.  ‚Äî  Some  substances  are 
simple  ;  that  is,  they  consist  of  but  one  thing.  Examples  : 
iron,  oxygen,  carbon.  A  simple  substance  is  an  element. 
Other  substances  are  composed  of  two  or  more  elements. 
Examples :  water,  carbon  dioxide.  Into  what  elements  may 
water  be  sej^arated  ?  Carbon  dioxide  ?  A  substance  com- 
posed of  two  or  more  elements  combined  is  a  compound.  In 
a  mixture  each  substance  keeps  its  own  properties;  in  a 
compound  these  give  place  to  new  properties  belonging  to 
the  compound.  Every  chemical  change  involves  either  the 
forming  or  the  decomposition  (breaking  up)  of  a  compound, 
usually  both. 

103.  Four  elements  found  in  food ;  some  of  their  proper- 
ties.‚Äî  Foods  consist  of  compounds  formed  chiefly  from 
oxygen,  carbon,  hydrogen,  and  nitrogen,  with  small  quan- 
tities of  other  elements.  Oxygen  is  an  invisible,  odorless  gas. 
It  is  a  very  active  element,  always  ready  to  unite  with  other 
elements  to  form  new  compounds.  The  combining  of  oxygen 
with  another  element  is  called  oxidation.  The  rusting  of 
metals  and  the  decay  of  organic  matter  are  slow  forms  of 
oxidation.      Oxygen  forms  about   one-fifth  of  the    volume 


PREPARATOHY   LESSONS  51 

of  air,  eight-ninths  of  the  weight  of  water,  and  two-thirds 
of  the  weight  of  the  human  body.  Hydrogen  in  an  invisible 
gas.  It  will  burn,  uniting  with  oxygen  to  form  water.  It 
forms  about  one-ninth  of  the  weight  of  water,  and  one- 
eleventh  of  that  of  the  human  body.  Nitrogen  is  an  invisible, 
incombustible  gas.  It  does  not  readily  combine  with  other 
elements,  and  the  compounds  into  which  it  enters  break  up 
easily.  It  forms  about  one  thirty-ninth  of  the  weight  of  the 
body.  Carbon  exists  as  an  element  in  two  forms,  graphite, 
the  so-called  "  lead  "  of  pencils,  and  the  diamond.  It  is  most 
commonly  met  with  in  a  slightly  impure  form  as  charcoal. 
Of  all  the  elements,  no  other  enters  into  so  many  compounds 
as  does  carbon.  It  is  contained  in  all  organic  substance, 
as  is  shown  by  their  blackening  (carbonizing)  when  heated. 
All  foods  except  common  salt  consist  of  organic  matter. 

104.  Salts. ‚Äî A  salt  is  a  compound  resulting  from  the 
union  of  an  acid  with  one  of  a  class  of  substances  called 
bases.  Acids,  bases,  and  salts  are  further  treated  of  in 
Chapter  V,  Sec.  1.  Common  salt  (sodium  chloride)  can  be 
'nade  by  adding  hydrochloric  acid  to  caustic  soda. 

105.  Action  of  acids  on  metals.  ‚Äî  Acids  act  on  metals, 
particularly  those  exposed  to  dampness  and  air,  forming 
salts  or  oxides  of  the  metals.  The  staining  of  steel  and  the 
corroding  of  tin  and  other  metal  ware  by  potatoes,  fruit,  etc., 
is  caused  by  the  action  of  organic  acids  in  the  food.  The 
salts  formed  in  this  way  are  likely  to  be  poisonous.  Food 
not  naturally  acid  becomes  so  by  long  keeping,  or  by  decay. 

Reading  that  may  help  you  better  to  understand  the  topics 
briefly  discussed  in  this  section  :  Early  Chapters  in  Science ;  con- 
nection, conduction,  radiation,  pp.  252-257 ;  elements  and  com- 
pounds, pp.  313,  314 ;  oxidation,  p.  323 ;  three  states  of  matter, 
pp.  231-240. 


52  THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


Section  6.    Definitions,  Tables,  Rules 

If  a  man  or  woman  has  not  the  soul  of  a  cook,  the  most  minute 
recipes  will  end  in  failure.  ‚Äî Kuttner. 

106.  Food  and  cooking  ;  how  and  why  food  is  cooked. ‚Äî 
Food  is  whatever  nourishes  the  body.  Cooking  is  making 
food  ready  to  eat.  This  is  done  chiefly  by  means  of 
heat. 

Food  is  exposed  to  the  action  of  heat,  (1)  to  make  it 
more  digestible,  (2)  to  improve  its  flavor,  and  (3)  to 
kill  any  living  things  it  may  contain. 

Many  vegetable  foods,  and  a  few  animal  foods,  oys- 
ters, for  instance,  may  be  eaten  uncooked.  All  plant 
foods  undergo  a  kind  of  cooking  by  the  heat  of  the  sun, 
as  do  animal  foods  by  the  heat  of  the  animal  body. 

Principal  Methods  of  Cooking 

1.  Broiling:  cooking  over  a  glowing  1 

fire.  I  Direct  applica- 

2.  Roasting:  cooking  before  a  glow-  |      tion  of  heat. 

ing  fire. 

]  Application  by 

3.  Baking:  cooking  in  an  oven.  j-      means  of 

j      heated  air. 

4.  Boiling:  cooking  in  boiling  water.  ]  ‚Äû     ,  ,.    , 
r     nj      '              1  '       r        1         i  ‚Ä¢          xdeat   applied 

5.  Stewing:   cooking  tor  a  lon^  time         ,         ^^         . 

¬∞  ,    ,         ^,       ,    .,.         [      by  means  oi 

\n   water  below  the    boiling-  ^  , 

.   ^  water, 

point.  , 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS 


63 


6.   Steaming: 


'a.  moist:  cooking  in 
steamer. 

h.  dry:    cooking    in 
double  boiler. 


By  contact 

with  steam. 
By  the  heat 

of  steam 

surrounding 

vessel. 


9. 


Heat  applied 
by  means  of 
heated  fat. 


Heat  applied 
by  means  of 
heated  metal. 


Frying:  cooking  in  hot  fat  deep 
enough  to  cover  the  article  to 
be  cooked. 
Sauteing  ^ :    cooking    in   a   small 
quantity  of  hot  fat. 

cooking  in  a  fry- 
Pan-broiling:     ing-pan    or    on    a 
Pan-baking :       griddle,  with  little 
or  no  fat. 

10.  Braising:   a  combination  of  stewing  and  baking. 

11.  Fricasseeing :  a  combination  of  frying  and  stew- 

ing. 

Table  of  Measures 

3  teaspoonfuls  make 1  tablespoonful 

16  tablespoonfuls  of  any  dry  ingredient  make    .     .     .     .  ^  1  cupful 
12  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  make 1  cupful 

4  cupf  uls  make 1  quart 

Table  of  Comparison  between  "Weights  and  Measures 

2  cups  of  butter  (packed  solidly) is  equal  to  1  pound 

2  cupfuls  of  finely  chopped  meat  (packed  solidly)         ‚Ä¢'         1  pound 
2  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar "         1  pound 


1  Pronounced  sotaying. 


2  A  half-pint  cup  is  the  standard. 


54    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

2%  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar is  equal  to  1  pound 

27^  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar "         1  pound 

2%  cupfuls  of  oatmeal "         1  pound 

4^  cupfuls  of  rolled  oats "         1  pound 

4  cupfuls  of  flour  (about) "         1  pound 

9  or  10  eggs "         1  pound 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ''         1   ounce 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour "         1  ounce 

"  The  juice  of  one  lemon  " 3  tablespoonfuls 

Directions  for  Measuring 

107.  1.  Sift,  or  shake  up  lightly  with  a  spooD,  all 
dry  materials  (flour,  baking-powder,  etc.)  before  meas- 
uring them.     Always  sift  mustard. 

2.  All  measures  are  to  be  taken  level  unless  other- 
wise directed.^ 

3.  To  measure  a  cupful  of  dry  material,  fill  the  cup 
with  a  spoon  or  scoop,  and  level  off  Avith  a  case-knife. 
To  measure  a  teaspoonful  or  tablespoonful  of  dry  ma- 
terial, fill  the  spoon  by  dipping  it  into  the  material,  lift 
it,  and  level  off  with  a  case-knife.  To  measure  a  half- 
spoonful,  divide  a  spoon  lengthwise  with  the  knife. 
Divide  a  half-spoonful  crosswise  to  measure  a  quarter, 
and  a  quarter-spoonful  crosswise  to  measure  an  eighth. 
Less  than  an  eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  is  called  "  a  few 
grains."     (Plate  IV.) 

4.  A  cupful  of  liquid  is  all  the  cup  will  hold  ;  a 
spoonful  of  liquid  is  all  the  spoon  will  hold.     A  heaping 

1  In  most  cookbooks,  including  all  published  before  1896,  it  is  in- 
tended that  spoonfuls  of  flour,  baking-powder,  sugar,  butter,  and  lard 
should  be  measured  rounded.  One  rounded  spoonful  is  equal  to  two 
level  spoonfuls. 


PLATE  IV. 


^tealllel‚Ä¢        Colander  Stniinors  FLsh-boiler 

Double  boiler  Melon-mold  Flour-sifter     Funnel 

Vegetable  press      (for  puddings,  ice-cream,  etc.)     Lemon-squeezer 
Potato-masher  Biscuit-cutter 

Cooking  Utensils. 


One  cupful  of  sugar  weighing  oue-half  pound 
Quart-measure  Measuring  one  cupful  of  dry  material 

Half-pint  measuring-cup 

One-half  teaspoonful,     One-fourth  tablespoonful, 
measured  measured 

Measuring. 


PREPARATORY   LESSONS  55 

spoonful  of  dry  material  is  all  the  spoon  will  hold.  A 
scant  cujDful  is  measured  by  filling  the  cup  to  within 
one-eighth  of  an  inch  of  the  brim. 

Note.  ‚Äî  Success  in  cooking  depends  greatly  upon  accuracy 
in  measuring.  Only  after  much  practice  in  measuring  as  here 
directed,  should  you  venture  to  measure  even  small  quantities  by 
your  eye.  The  requirement  of  accurate  measuring  and  the  giving 
of  exact  quantities  of  material  in  the  recipes  in  this  book,  are  not 
intended,  however,  to  do  away  with  the  exercise  of  individual  taste 
and  judgment.  So  long  as  flours  vary  in  thickening  quality,  and 
spices  and  other  cooking  materials  in  strength,  it  will  be  impossible 
to  WTite  recipes  that  can  be  followed  absolutely  in  all  cases.  Fol- 
low a  recipe  exactly  the  first  time  you  use  it ;  if  it  requires  to  be 
varied,  you  can  then  make  the  change  intelligently;  whereas,  if 
you  have  not  followed  it  exactly,  you  cannot  be  sure  which  is  at 
fault,  the  recipe  or  the  cook. 

The  quantities  of  seasonings  given  in  this  book  are,  as  a  rule, 
the  smallest  desirable.  Increase  them  cautiously  to  suit  your 
taste ;  but  do  not  fall  into  the  error,  common  in  America,  of  over- 
seasoning  food  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Table  of  Abbreviations  used  in  this  Book 

tb.  stands  for  tablespoonful,  or  tablespoonfuls. 

t.  stands  for  teaspoonful,  or  teaspoonfuls. 

c.  stands  for  cupful,  or  cupfuls. 

qt.  stands  for  quart. 

pt.  stands  for  pint. 

lb.  stands  for  pound. 

oz.  stands  for  ounce. 

f.g.  stands  for  a  few  grains. 

r.  stands  for  rounded. 

hp.  stands  for  heaping. 

sc.  stands  for  scant. 

min.  stands  for  minute,  or  minutes. 

hr.  stands  for  hour. 


56         THEORY  AND    PRACTICE    OF   COOKERY 

Hints  on  how  to  Work 

108.  1¬ª  See  that  the  fire  is  ready  for  use,  or  so  ar- 
ranged that  it  will  be  ready  by  the  time  it  is  needed. 

2.  Collect  all  the  materials  that  will  be  needed. 

3.  Collect  all  the  dishes,  spoons,  and  other  utensils 
that  will  be  needed,  including  a  plate  on  which  to  lay 
sticky  spoons,  knives,  etc. 

4.  Take  care  not  to  make  work  for  yourself  by  using 
more  utensils  than  are  necessary.  For  instance,  by 
measuring  dry  materials  first,  then  liquids,  and  last, 
fats,  you  need  use  only  one  cup. 

5.  When  milk  and  eggs  are  used,  save  a  little  of  the 
milk  to  rinse  out  the  bowl  in  which  the  eggs  are  beaten. 

6.  Use  an  earthen  bowl  and  a  wooden  spoon  for 
mixing  cakes,  muffins,  etc.  A  tin  dish  and  an  iron 
spoon  are  likely  to  discolor  the  mixture. 

7.  Have  all  materials  ready  for  use  (flour  sifted  and 
measured,  eggs  broken,  raisins  stoned,  etc.),  before  be- 
ginning to  put  them  together. 

8.  Cover  flour-barrel,  sugar-bucket,  baking-powder 
can,  etc.,  as  soon  as  you  have  taken  from  them  what 
you  need. 

9.  Clear  up  as  you  work,  putting  dishes  to  soak  as 
soon  as  they  are  emptied,  and  washing  them  at  once  if 
you  have  a  moment  to  spare. 

10.  When  you  have  finished,  collect  all  the  dishes 
that  remain,  saving  any  unused  material  that  is  in  good 
condition. 

11.  Learn  to  work  neatly,  carefully,  quietly,  and 
quickly. 


Practical  application  is  the  only  mordant  which  will  set 
things  in  the  memory.  Study  without  it  is  gymnastics., 
and  not  work,  which  alone  will  get  intellectual  bread. 

‚Äî  James  Russell  Lowell. 


CHAPTER   II 

FUEL  FOODS:   SOME  STARCHY  PLANTS 

Section  1.    The  Potato 

Likewise  a  food,  as  also  a  meete  for  pleasure,  being  either  roasted 
in  the  embers,  or  boiled  and  eaten  with  oile  and  vinegar,  or  dressed 
in  anie  other  way  by  the  hand  of  some  canning  in  cookerie.  ‚Äî  Gerard. 

Recipes 

Baked  Potatoes 

Select  medium -sized  potatoes,  scrub  them  well,  and 
dry  them.  Bake  them  in  a  shallow  pan  on  the  rack  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  until  soft  (usually  about  forty- 
five  minutes).  Turn  them  occasionally,  that  they  may 
bake  evenly.  When  soft,  press  them  between  the  fin- 
gers, and  break  the  skin  to  let  the  steam  escape.  Serve 
them  folded  in  a  napkin  in  an  uncovered  dish. 

Boiled  Potatoes 

(^Put  water  to  hoiL') 

Select  potatoes  uniform  in  size.  Scrub  or  wash  them, 
and  if  they  are  to  be  pared,  pare  them  lengthwise, 
remove  the  "eyes"  and  any  dark  spots,  and  drop  them 
into  cold  water.  Put  them  into  a  kettle  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them.^     When  they  have  boiled 

1  To  keep  them  from  discoloring.  The  oxygen  of  the  air  forms 
with  the  potato  a  dark-colored  substance.  This  acid  also  stains  the 
paring-knife. 

69 


60    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

twenty  minutes,  add  salt,  using  one  tablespoonful  to 
six  potatoes.  When  the  potatoes  can  be  pierced  easily 
with  a  fork  or  kuitting-needle,  drain  off  all  the  water, 
shake  the  kettle  gently,  sprinkle  the  potatoes  with  a 
little  salt,  cover  the  kettle  with  a  cloth  folded  in 
several  thicknesses,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place 
until  the  potatoes  are  served.     Serve  them  uncovered. 

A  Study  of  a  White  Potato 

109.    What  is  a  potato?       A  root?    let  us  see  if  by 
examining  one  we  can  find  out.      On  its   surface   are 


Fig.  8. ‚Äî Potato-plant 


little  scars,  called  "  eyes."     If  a  potato  be  buried  in  the 
ground  in  mild  weather,  or  kept  in  a  warm,  dark  place. 


PLATE  V. 


Cold  Oatmeal  molded  and  garnished  with  Sliced  Bananas. 


Iodine  Test  for  Starch. 

Diluted  tincture  of  iodine  in  one  test-tube,  starch-paste  stained  by  iodine  in  the  other. 


FUEL    FOODS:    SOME    STARCHY    PLANTS        61 

what  happens  ?  It  sprouts  ;  that  is,  the  eyes  send  out 
green  shoots  that  in  time  have  leaves.  These  eyes, 
then,  must  be  buds,  and  the  potato  a  stem,  not  a  root ; 
for,  ordinarily,  roots  do  not  bud.  A  thickened  under- 
ground stem  like  this  of  the  potato,  is  a  tuber.  ^  Potato 
roots  are  slender  and  fibrous. 

Hold  a  thin  slice  of  potato  to  the  light.  Is  its  sub- 
stance denser  near  the  edges  or  at  the  centre  ?  Can 
you  make  out  an  appearance  of  network  ? 

110.  Analysis  of  potato ;  experiments  to  find  out  what  a  potato 
contains.  ‚Äî  A.  Pare  and  grate  a  piece  of  raw  potato.  Squeeze  it 
in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  held  over  a  bowl.  Rinse  what  remains 
in  the  cloth  with  cold  water,  and  squeeze  it  as  dry  as  you  can. 
What  does  it  seem  like  ? 

B.  Let  the  liquid  in  the  bowl  stand  until  a  white  sediment 
settles ;  then  pour  it  off  carefully.  Add  a  little  water  to  the  sedi- 
ment and  boil  it.     Does  it  act  like  anything  you  have  seen  before? 

C.  Mix  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  cold  water,  add  one-fourth  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  stir 
until  clear.  Do  the  same  with  laundry  starch.  Dissolve  about 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  water ;  do  the 
same  with  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Add  a  few  drops  of  tincture 
of  iodine  to  a  test-tube  of  water.  Pour  a  little  of  this  iodine  solu- 
tion into  each  of  the  starch  pastes.  What  happens?  Try  a  few 
drops  in  the  salt  solution.  In  the  sugar  solution.  Has  it  the 
same  effect  on  these  as  on  the  starch  ?     (Plate  V.) 

Starch  is  turned  blue  by  iodine.  No  other  substance 
being  affected  in  this  way,  iodine  serves  as  a  test  for 
starch. 

1  The  sweet  potato  is  a  true  root,  but  from  its  resemblance  to  a 
tuber  is  called  a  tuberous  root.  It  differs  from  a  white  potato  chiefly 
in  containing  sugar. 


62 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


D.  Add  a  drop  or  two  of  iodine  solution  to  the  white  substance 
obtained  from  the  potato.  What  do  you  think  it  is?  Test  a 
slice  of  potato  for  starch. 


COMPOSITION   OF   POTATO   AS   SHOWN   BY   ROUGH 
ANALYSIS 


1.    Plant     fibre 
(partly 
cellulose). 

Similar   to    fibre   of    wood. 
Forms  walls  of  cells,  or  lit- 
tle divisions,  in  the  potato. 

Too  tough  to  be 
digested ;  there- 
fore of  little 
food  value. 

2.    Water. 

About  75  per  cent   of   the 
weight  of  the  potato.  Fills 
cells. 

3.    Starch. 

White    insoluble    powder 

The    chief     food- 

floating in  water  in  cells ; 
with  boiling  water  forms 

stuff  in  pota- 
toes. 

a  jellylike  paste. 

Potatoes  also  contain  : 


4.  Potash  salts 
and  other 
m  i  n  e  r  a  1 
matter. 


5.    Other  substa 
food  value. 


Lying  mostly  just  beneath 
the  skin. 


nces  in  such  small  quantities 


as  to  be  of  little 


111.  To  find  out  how  much  water  a  potato  contains,  pare 
and  weigh  it.  Lay  it  in  a  warm,  dry  place,  weighing  it 
every  day  until    it   ceases    to   lose   weight  by  evaporation 


FUEL   FOODS:    SOME    STARCHY   PLANTS         63 

of  its  moisture.  Compare  the  final  weight  with  what  it 
weighed  at  first.  The  difference  between  these  shows  how 
much  water  the  potato  contained. 

To  show  mineral  matter  in  potatoes,  heat  a  bit  of  potato 
in  a  crucible  or  evaporating  dish  over  a  Bunsen  burner  till 
only  gray  ashes  are  left. 

112.  Experiment  to  show  the  relation  between  the  sprouting  of  a 
potato  and  its  composition.  ‚Äî  Let  a  potato  lie  in  a  dark,  warm  place 
until  it  sprouts.  Bring  it  to  the  light  from  time  to  time  and  ob- 
serve the  growth  of  the  sprouts,  also  any  change  in  the  size  of  the 
potato.  What  do  you  think  the  sprouts  feed  on?  Would  a 
sprouted  potato  be  as  nutritious  as  an  unsprouted  one  ? 

113.  Growing  and  harvesting.  ‚Äî  Potatoes  are  grown 
from  cuttings,  not  from  seed,  each  piece  planted  being 
cut  so  that  it  has  two  or  more  eyes.  Why  not  leave 
one  eye  only  ?  They  are  planted  in  April  and  May,  and 
harvested  mainly  in  early  autumn. 

114.  How  to  choose  and  keep  potatoes.  ‚Äî  The  tuber  is  a 
storehouse  of  starch /or  the  nourishment  of  the  young  shoot. 
In  potatoes  dug  too  early  the  starch  is  immature  or  un- 
ripe. In  those  kept  too  long  after  digging  the  starch 
has  been  partly  changed  to  gum,  a  substance  more  ser- 
viceable than  starch  to  the  growing  plant,  but  not  so 
nutritious  for  man. 

Potatoes  are  best  (fullest  of  starch)  in  the  fall  and  win- 
ter. Select  those  regular  in  shape,  of  medium  size,  and  with 
smooth  skin.  A  bushel  of  very  large  potatoes  gives  the 
purchaser  less  than  a  bushel  of  smaller  ones,  which  pack 
more  closely.  Green  bitter  spots  are  caused  by  the  potatoes 
being  grown  too  near  the  surface  of  the  ground.  Keep 
them  in  a  cool,  dry  place.     If  sprouts  appear  pick  them  off. 


64    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

115.  Economy   in   paring   and   cooking    potatoes.  ‚Äî  Is 

the  skin  of  a  potato  thick  in  proportion  to  the  eatable 
part  ?     Do  we  need  to  take  off  a  thick  paring  ? 

By  experiment  it  has  been  found  that  potatoes  pared 
before  being  boiled  lose  much  of  their  food  value  dur- 
ing cooking,  nearly  one-fifth  of  the  mineral  matter,  with 
some  other  soluble  substances,  and  a  little  starch,  pass- 
ing into  the  cooking  water.  The  longer  the  potatoes 
lie  in  water  before  they  are  cooked,  the  greater  is  this 
loss.     Observe  therefore  the  following 

Rules  for  paring  Potatoes 

116.  1.  When  potatoes  are  free  from  black  spots  or 
other  imperfections,  boil  them  in  their  skins,  paring  off 
only  a  narrow  strip  around  the  middle  of  each  potato 
to  prevent  its  bursting.  2.  Always  pare  potatoes  thinly^ 
and  take  out  eyes  with  the  point  of  the  knife.  3.  To 
make  the  loss  from  pared  potatoes  as  small  as  possible, 
put  them  at  once  into  boiling  water  and  as  quickly  as 
possible  bring  it  to  the  boiling-point  again.  Old  or 
poor  potatoes  must  he  pared^  and  are  improved  by  soak- 
ing for  one  hour  in  cold  water,  to  restore  the  moisture 
lost  by  long  dr3dng. 

117.  Potatoes  cooked  to  make  them  digestible.  ‚Äî  Hard 

compact  granules  of  raw  starch,  enclosed  by  walls  of 
woody  fibre,  are  not  easily  acted  upon  by  the  digestive 
juices.  The  object  of  cooking  potatoes  is  to  break  open 
these  cell-walls  and  to  soften  and  swell  the  starch. 
Heat  and  moisture  are  needed  to  do  this. 


FUEL   FOODS:    SOME   STARCHY   PLANTS         65 

118.  Cross-section  of  a  potato  and  potato  starch  under  the  micro- 
scope.‚Äî  A.  Soak  the  thinnest  slice  of  potato  you  can  cut  in  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes.  Examine  a  bit  of  this  slice  under  the 
microscope.  What  shape  are  the  cells?  Compare  their  size  with 
that  of  the  starch  grains  in  them.  B.  Draw  from  memory  the  cross- 
section  as  you  saw  it  under  the  microscope,  and  write  a  description 
of  it.  C.  Examine  under  the  microscope  a  speck  of  potato  starch 
the  size  of  a  pinhead.  Observe  the  shape  and  markings  of  the 
granules.     Draw  a  few  granules  from  memory. 

How  TO  COOK  Potatoes 

119.  1.   Potatoes  must  be  cooked  till  soft  all  through. 

2.  Since  potatoes  contain  more  than  sufficient  water 
to  soften  the  starch  in  them,  they  may  be  baked.  The 
excess  of  water  is  changed  to  steam  during  cooking, 
leaving  the  starch  dry  and  flaky.  If  allowed  to  recon- 
dense,  the  starch  reabsorbs  it,  making  the  potatoes 
"  soggy  "  instead  of  "  mealy,"  as  they  should  be.  Pota- 
toes allowed  to  stand  in  water  after  they  are  cooked 
through  absorb  some  of  the  cooking  water  with  the 
same  result.  What  precautions  do  we  take  to  avoid 
this?     (See  recipes  for  Boiled  and  Baked  Potatoes.) 

3.  Rapidly  boiling  water  wears  off  the  outside  of  the 
potato  before  the  middle  is  cooked.    Let  it  huhhle gentli/. 

4.  If  the  outside  of  large  potatoes  becomes  soft  while 
the  centres  are  still  hard,  add  one  pint  of  cold  water. 
Enough  heat  remains  inside  of  the  potatoes  to  finish 
cooking  them. 

5.  Potatoes  baked  in  a  slow  oven  become  dry  and 
hard.  Quickly  baked  potatoes  are  more  easily  digested 
than  boiled  potatoes;   slowly  baked  ones,  less  so. 


66  THEORY  AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Potato  Recipes 

RiCED  Potato 

Press  boiled  potatoes  through  a  coarse  strainer  or  a 
vegetable  press  into  a  hot  dish. 

Mashed  Potato 

Mash  potatoes  (boiled  without  their  skins)  in  the 
kettle  in  which  they  were  cooked,  using  a  fork  or  a 
wire  potato-masher.  When  free  from  lumps,  add  for 
each  pint  of  mashed  potato 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted  in 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  scalded  milk, 
X  to  >^  teaspooiiful  of  salt,  and 
^  teaspoonful  of  Mdiite  pepper.^ 

Beat  all  together  until  light  and  creamy.  Heap  in  a 
dish  without  smoothing  the  top.  It  may  be  put  in  a 
baking-dish,  the  top  brushed  with  milk,  and  browned 
in  a  hot  oven. 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  one-half  inch  cubes ; 
put  these  into  a  saucepan,  nearly  cover  them  with  milk, 
and  cook  gently  until  nearly  all  the  milk  is  absorbed. 
Add  white  sauce,  stir  for  one  minute,  sprinkle  with 
finely  cut  parsley, ^  and  serve. 

1  Always  use  white  pepper  on  potatoes,  in  white  sauce,  and  in  any- 
other  food  where  black  pepper  would  show  distinctly. 

2  To  cut  parsley.  ‚Äî  Pick  off  several  sprigs  ;  if  wet,  dry  with  a  clean 
towel.  Hold  them  in  a  firm  bunch  on  a  board  or  plate,  and  cut  them 
through  and  through,  repeating  until  very  fine. 


FUEL    FOODS:    SOME    STARCHY    PLANTS         67 


White   Sauce  (for  Vegetables) 


Butter,     2  tablespoonfuls.  Salt,  Yz  teaspoonful,  ) 

Flour,      2  tablespoonfuls.  Pepper,     ^  teasx^oonful,  ) 

Milk,        1  cupful. 

Rub  flour  and  butter  together  with  a  spoon  in  a  small 
saucepan.  Add  milk,  and  stir  steadily  over  a  moderate 
heat  until  the  sauce  boils.     Add  salt  and  pepper. 

For  richer  white  sauce  use  part  cream.  Cream  sauce  is 
white  sauce  made  with  all  cream  instead  of  milk.  Use 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  to  one  cupful  of 
cream. 

Sweet   Potatoes 

Sweet  potatoes  are  best  baked.*  If  to  be  boiled,  leave 
the  skins  on,  pare  after  cooking,  and  dry  for  a  few  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven.     They  may  be  riced. 

120.  Food  value  of  potatoes.  ‚Äî  Potatoes  contain  too 
small  a  quantity  of  foodstuffs  to  be  valuable  if  eaten 
alone.  Eaten  with  richer  food,  they  form  an  important 
article  of  diet,  and  one  we  do  not  tire  of,  particularly  if 
they  be  cooked  in  a  variety  of  ways. 

For  more  about  sweet  and  white  potatoes  see  pp.  193-199  in 
Food  Prodncts  of  the  World;  or  pp.  59,  60,  in  Foods  and  Bev- 
erages, au  interesting  little  book  written  for  school  children. 
Repeat  at  home  the  experiments  in  this  section ;  use  some  of  the 
starch  you  obtain  to  starch  small  pieces  of  cloth.  Bring  these  and 
some  of  the  dried  starch  and  cellulose  to  school. 

1  This  recipe  makes  one  cup  of  sauce,  enough  for  four  moderate- 
sized  potatoes,  or  one  pint  of  potato  cubes. 


68  THEORY   AND    PRACTICE    OF   COOKERY 

Section  2.    Starch 
Sources  op  Starch 

121.  Experiments.  ‚Äî  A.  Put  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
cracked  or  rolled  oats  with  about  one  cupful  of  cold  water  in  a 
small  bowl ;  rub  the  oatmeal  between  your  thumb  and  fingers  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  observe  the  effect  on  the  water.  Fill  a  small 
test-tube  (a)  with  the  water  and  set  it  aside. 

B.  Half  fill  another  test-tube  {b)  with  the  water  and  boil  it. 
Compare  the  paste  formed  with  that  from  potato  starch  (¬ß  110). 
Add  a  drop  of  iodine  solution.  What  substance  does  oatmeal 
contain  ? 

C.  Soak  rolled  wheat,  corn-meal,  tapioca,  rice,  or  any  prepa- 
ration used  for  breakfast  mush,  as  you  did  oatmeal  in  Exp.  A; 
boil  the  water,  and  test  it  for  starch.  Is  there  any  substance  com- 
mon to  all  these  foods  ?     What  is  it  ? 

D.  Test  any  or  all  of  the  following  substances  for  starch :  ^  ‚Äî 
flour,  milk,  fish,  white  of  egg,  cabbage,  meat  (in  order  to  see  the 
color,  use  cooked  chicken,  lamb,  or  veal),  apple,  turnip.  Do  any 
of  the  animal  foods  contain  starch?  Do  all  the  vegetable  foods 
contain  starch  ?     Explain  why  flour  is  used  to  thicken  white  sauce. 

E.  Pour  off  the  water  in  test-tube  a  and  dry  the  powder 
found  at  the  bottom.  Can  you  distinguish  it  in  appearance  and 
feeling  from  potato  starch  ? 

122.  Starch  (oat,  potato,  or  any  other  kind)  is  a  fine 
white  glistening  powder,  insoluble  in  cold  water,  but 
partially  soluble  in  hot  water,  with  which  it  forms  a 
jellylike  paste.  It  is  turned  intensely  blue  by  iodine. 
Starch  is  formed  and  stored  up  by  many  growing  plants 
as  food  for  the  young  shoots,  collecting  in  autumn  to 
be  used  in  spring.      Laundry  starch  is  made  from  corn. 

1  Simply  test  with  iodine  without  adding  water  or  heating. 


FUEL  FOODS:  SOME  STARCHY  PLANTS    69 

A  Study  of  Starch 

123.  Starch  under  the  microscope.  ‚Äî  Under  the  micro- 
scope starch  is  seen  to  consist  of  irregularly  shaped 
granules  formed  of  layers  folded  around  a  central  point. 
Starches  from  different  plants  differ  from  one  another, 
granules  of  potato  starch  being  larger  than  those  of 
any  other  kind,  and  something  like  oyster  shells  in 
shape  and  marking,  while  rice  starch  granules  are  angu- 
lar and  very  small.  When  cooked  the  granules  lose 
their  distinctive  appearance. 

A.  Examine  potato  starch,  rice  starch,  cornstarch,  and  other 
starches  under  the  microscope.  Do  the  different  kinds  of  starch 
granules  look  aUke  ?  Are  they  all  the  same  size?  Which  kind 
is  largest?  Which  smallest?  Make  memory  drawings  of  two  or 
more  kinds  of  starch  granules  as  they  appear  under  the  microscope. 

B.  Examine  samples  of  starch  paste  under  the  microscope. 
Can  you  tell  which  is  made  from  rice  starch,  which  from  potato 
starch,  and  so  on  ? 

124.  Experiments  showing  how  to  prevent  starch  from  lumping 
while  cooking.  ‚Äî  A.  Pour  about  two  tablespoonf uls  of  boiling 
water  upon  one  teaspoonful  of  dry  cornstarch,  stirring  as  you  pour. 
What  happens?  Break  open  one  of  the  lumps.  What  do  you  find 
inside  ?  Would  pouring  boiling  water  upon  starch  be  a  good  way 
to  cook  it?     Why  not? 

When  boiling  water  is  poured  upon  dry  starch,  lumps 
form,  because  the  starch  first  touched  by  the  hot  water 
swells  suddenly,  forming  a  sticky  envelope  around  the 
rest,  thus  keeping  it  from  swelling. 

B.  Repeat  Experiment  A,  mixing  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
granulated  sugar  with  the  starch  before  stirring  in  water.     Result? 


70    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Explanation.  ‚Äî  The  grains  of  sugar,  by  separating  the  starch  gran- 
ules, give  the  latter  room  to  swell  and  thicken  the  liquid  smoothly. 

C.  Repeat  Experiment  A,  mixing  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water  with  the  starch.     Note  result  and  explain. 

D.  Mix  one-half  tablespoonful  of  starch  with  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  or  other  fat,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water,  and  cook,  stirring  until  the  mixture  thickens.     Result  ? 

125.  Starch  used  to  thicken  sauces.  ‚Äî  Starch  is  used  to 
thicken  liquid  in  making  sauces  and  gravies.  In  what 
three  ways  may  lumping  be  avoided  ?  Which  of  these 
ways  is  used  in  making  white  sauce  ? 

126.  Starch,  dextrin,  and  caramel.  ‚Äî  Starch,  heated  dry, 
changes  to  dextrin,  which  is  soluble  in  cold  water.  In 
browned  flour  part  of  the  starch  has  undergone  this  change, 
lessening  the  thickening  property  of  the  flour,  and  at  the 
same  time  part  of  the  dextrin  has  been  further  changed  to 
caramel,  which  causes  the  brown  color.  The  inside  of  baked 
potatoes  is  partially  dextrinized,  and  the  crust  under  the 
skin  is  largely  caramel  and  dextrin.  It  is  the  presence  of 
these  soluble  substances  that  makes  baked  potatoes  more 
easily  digestible  than  boiled  ones.  A  temperature  of  320¬∞  F. 
is  required  to  dextrinize  starch.  Explain  wdiy  dextrin  is 
not  formed  in  boiled  potatoes. 

127-  Experiments  in  heating  starch  dry.  ‚Äî  A.  Heai  about  one 
tablespoonful  of  starch  in  a  test-tube  (or  on  a  small  tin  pan  kept 
for  use  in  experiments).  When  brown,  take  out  part  of  it  and  test 
it  for  starch,  (1)  by  heating  with  water,  (2)  by  adding  iodine. 

B.  Continue  to  heat  the  rest  of  the  starch  in  a  test-tube,  until 
black.  What  is  the  black  substance?  What  do  you  observe  on 
the  sides  of  the  test-tube  ? 

128.  Composition  of  starch. ‚Äî Starch  is  composed  of 
carbon,  oxygen,  and  hydrogen.  When  heated,  the  two 
last  pass  off  as  water,  leaving  the  carbon. 


FUEL  FOODS:  SOME  STARCHY  PLANTS    71 

129.  Digestion  of  starch.  ‚Äî  Digestion  is  a  process  of 
solution.  Saliva  begins  the  digestion  of  starch  by 
changing  some  of  it  first  into  soluble  starch,  and  then 
into  a  sugar  called  maltose.  Starch  digestion  is  com- 
pleted in  the  small  intestine. 

A  substance  in  saliva,  called  ptyalin,  causes  this  change. 
(¬ß  230.)  The  test  for  maltose  is  Fehling's  solution/  which 
combines  with  it  to  form  a  reddish  or  orange-colored  sub- 
stance. 

Experiments  to  show  the  action  of  saliva  on  starch. ^  ‚Äî  A.  Make 
a  thin  starch  paste  (about  one-half  teaspoonful  of  starch  to  three 
or  four  tahlespoonfuls  of  water).  Divide  this  between  two  test- 
tubes  ;  in  a  third  collect  some  saliva.  Pour  part  of  the  saliva  into 
one  of  the  tubes  of  starch  paste.  Add  a  few  drops  of  Fehling's 
solution  to  (1)  the  saliva,  (2)  the  starch,  (3)  a  portion  of  the  mix- 
ture of  saliva  and  starch.  Do  any  of  these  change  color?  Does 
either  saliva  or  starch  alone  contain  maltose?  Explain  the  pres- 
ence of  this  sugar  in  the  mixture  of  starch  and  saliva. 

B.  At  the  end  of  fifteen  minutes,  test  the  mixture  for  starch 
with  iodine.  A  violet  or  a  red  color  shows  that  the  starch  is  par- 
tially changed  to  sugar.  Is  the  action  of  saliva  on  starch  chemical 
or  physical  ?     The  action  of  the  sugar  on  Fehling's  solution  ? 

Starch  as  Fuel  for  the  Body 

130.  The  work  of  the  body.  ‚Äî  How  does  eating  help 
to  keep  us  alive  ?  Life  involves  activity ;  work,  play, 
activity  of  any  sort,  makes  us  hungry ;  food  gives  us 
energy  to  go  on  working  and  playing.     Any  activity 

1  A  mixture  of  copper  sulphate  and  caustic  potash. 

2  Precaution.  ‚Äî  Test  starch  for  sugar  before  adding  saliva.  Some 
starches  are  mixed  with  a  little  sugar.  Cornstarch  and  starch  pre- 
pared from  hominy  are  usually  pure.  For  best  results,  keep  the 
tubes  standhig  in  lukewarm  water  (98¬∞  F.). 


72    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

that  uses  up  energy  is,  in  the  scientific  sense,  work. 
Your  muscles  work  as  hard  in  playing  a  game  as  in 
going  on  an  errand,  and  just  as  truly  does  the  heart 
work  in  pumping  blood,  the  stomach  in  digesting  food, 
the  brain  and  nerves  in  giving  rise  to  thought  and 
feeling. 

What  else  does  food  do  for  us?  Breathe  on  your 
fingers;  your  breath  is  warm.  Evidently  heat  is  pro- 
duced in  the  body. 

131.  The  body  compared  to  a  steam-engine.  ‚Äî  Just  as 
heat  and  mechanic  power  are  produced  by  burning  fuel 
under  the  boiler  of  a  steam-engine,  so  force  and  heat 
are  produced  by  the  oxidation  of  food  in  the  tissues  of 
the  body.i  Starch  slowly  oxidized  in  the  body  gives 
off  just  as  much  heat  and  force  as  if  burnt  (z.e.  rapidly 
oxidized)  in  the  air.  How  is  oxygen  taken  into  the 
body?  What  combustible  elements  does  starch  con- 
tain? What  other  kinds  of  slow  oxidation  do  you 
know  of?  (¬ß¬ß  68  and  103.)  Thus  food  serves  as  fuel 
to  warm  the  body  and  to  keep  its  machinery  running, 
its  oxidation,  as  in  the  case  of  other  fuels,  giving  rise 
to  carbon  dioxide,  water,  and  also  to  waste  products 
corresponding  to  the  ash  of  coal  or  wood. 

132.  The   body,  unlike   an   engine,  repairs  itself. ‚Äî A 

steam-engine  differs  from  the  body,  however,  in  one 
important  respect,  ‚Äî  it  cannot  repair  itself.     No  fuel  we 

1  About  one-third  of  the  energy  contained  in  the  food  we  eat  can 
be  utilized  in  productive  work;  the  other  two-thirds  is  used  up  inter- 
nally in  life  processes. 


FUEL   FOODS:    SOME   STARCHY   PLANTS         73 

can  feed  it  with  will  stop  a  leak  in  the  boiler  or  restore 
a  missing  rivet ;  but  food  renews  the  tissues  of  the  body 
as  fast  as  they  wear  out,  making  bone,  nerve,  muscle, 
and  skin  for  us  continually.  Then,  too,  in  a  steam- 
engine,  fuel  and  air  meet  and  unite  in  one  place, 
whereas  in  the  body  combustion  goes  on  in  all  its 
parts. 

133.  Different  kinds  of  foodstuffs  serve  the  body  in 
different  ways ;  for  instance,  starch  cannot  build 
tissue,  but  is  efficient,  first,  as  a  force-producer,  sec- 
ondly, as  a  heat-giver.  Fat  and  oil  have  greater  fuel 
value  than  starch  has,  because  they  contain  a  much 
smaller  proportion  of  oxygen  and  so  can  unite  with 
more. 

Experiment.  ‚Äî  Throw  a  bit  of  butter  or  lard  and  a  bit  of  starch 
into  the  fire.     AVhich  burns  best  ? 

Chemists  are  able  to  calculate  exactly  how  much 
work  a  certain  amount  of  starch  or  of  other  food  will 
enable  a  man  to  do. 

Other  kinds  of  starch  and  the  manufacture  of  starch  are  de- 
scribed on  p.  248  of  Food  Products  of  the  World.  Repeat  at  home 
the  experiments  given  in  this  section. 

Section  3.    Cereals;   Simple  Cereal  Poods 

On  either  side  the  river  lie 

Long  fields  of  barley  and  of  rye 

That  clothe  the  wold  and  meet  the  sky. 

‚Äî  Tennyson. 

134.  Cereals,  or  grains,  are  grasses  the  seeds  of 
which  are  used  for  food  ;   among  the  most  important 


74    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

being  wheat,  Indian-corn  or  maize,  oats,  rice,  rye,  and 
barley.  From  these  are  prepared  various  breakfast 
foods,  ‚Äî  oatmeal,  wheatena,  and  others,  besides  corn- 
meal  and  other  preparations  sometimes  served  for 
breakfast. 

135.  Cereals  compared  with  potatoes.  ‚Äî  Cereals,  like 
potatoes,  contain  starch.  How  may  we  prove  this? 
If  they  were  like  potatoes  in  other  respects,  they  could 
be  cooked  in  much  the  same  way.  Unlike  potatoes, 
however,  they  do  not  contain  nearly  enough  water  to 
soften  the  starch,  and  must,  therefore,  be  so  cooked 
that  they  can  absorb  more.  All  except  rice  contain 
much  woody  fibre  tougher  tlian  that  in  potatoes,  and  so 
need  longer  cooking. 

136.  Breakfast  cereals  may  he  either  boiled  or  dry- 
steamed.  Steaming  is  the  slower  process,  because  the 
food  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler  never  quite 
reaches  212¬∞  F. ;  but  is  preferable,  since  it  insures  even 
cooking  of  the  cereal,  prevents  it  from  wasting  or  dry- 
ing on  to  the  vessel,  as  it  does  when  a  saucepan  is  used, 
and  makes  stirring  unnecessary. 

137.  How  to  use  a  double  boiler.  ‚Äî  Fill  the  lower  part 
(5,  Fig.  9)  one-tldrd  full  of  boiling  water,  and  keep  it 
boiling.  Add  more  boiling  water  from  time  to  time,  if 
needed  to  keep  it  one-third  full.  If  allowed  to  stand 
over  the  fire,  for  even  a  short  time,  without  water  in 
the  lower  part,  the  boiler  will  become  leaky  and  useless. 
Keep  the  two  handles  of  the  boiler  in  line,  so  that  both 
parts  may  be  readily  lifted  together. 


FUEL  FOODS:  SOME  STARCHY  PLANTS    75 


See  that  both  parts  are  dry  before  putting  them  away. 
A  home-made  double  boiler  may  be  contrived  by  setting 
one  saucepan  inside  of  another. 

Recipe  for  Whole  Oatmeal  (steamed) 

Oatmeal,  1  cupful.  Salt,  1  teaspoonful. 

Water,  4  cupfuls. 

Put  the  water,  with  the  salt,  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
double  boiler,  and  set  it  directly  over  the  heat.     When 

it  boils,  stir  in  the  oat- 
meal, put  the  two  parts 
of  the  boiler  together, 
and  cook  over  night,  or 
six  hours  by  a  day  fire. 
Reheat  in  the  morning. 
Or^  soak  the  oatmeal  in 
the  water  for  several 
Fig.  9.  ‚Äî  Diagram  of  double  boiler,  hours,  add  the  salt,  and 
showing  proper  depth  of  water.  ,  p       ,^  ^ 

^  steam  tor  three  hours. 

Recipe  for  Boiled  Rice  (to  be  served  as  a  vegetable  in  place  of 

potatoes) 

Rice,  1  cupful.  Salt,  1  teaspoonful. 

Water,  2  quarts  (or  more). 

Put  the  water  in  a  saucepan  to  boil.  Pick  over  and 
wash  the  rice.  When  the  water  boils  rapidly,  drop  in 
the  rice  ‚Äî  slowly^  so  as  not  to  stop  the  boiling.  If  the 
grains  settle  to  the  bottom,  stir  them  gently  with  a 
fork.  Boil  rapidly,  uncovered,  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  the  grains  can  be  crushed   between 


76    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

thumb  and  finger,  adding  the  salt  when  nearly  done. 
Then  turn  into  a  strainer  to  drain,  rinse  with  hot 
water,  and  dry  in  the  serving-dish  in  the  oven  (with  the 
door  open)  for  a  few  minutes.  Each  grain  should  be 
white,  soft,  and  distinct,  the  motion  of  the  water  keeping 
them  separate,  and  the  washing  and  rinsing  removing 
loose  starch  that  Avould  tend  to  stick  them  together. 

138.  To  wash  rice.  ‚Äî  Put  it  in  a  colander  or  strainer, 
and  set  this  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water  ;  rub  the  rice  with 
the  hands  ;   change  the  w^ater,  repeating  until  it  is  clear. 

139.  Steam-cooked  cereals  not  economical.  ‚Äî  Many  ce- 
real preparations,  including  most  of  those  sold  in  pack- 
ages, have  been  partially  steam-cooked  at  the  factory. 
This  shortens  the  time  required  to  prepare  them  for  the 
table  ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  it  injures  their  flavor, 
and  adds  to  them  a  large  quantity  of  water,  for  the 
weight  of  which  the  purchaser  pays.  As  a  fire  kept 
up  for  other  purposes  can  usually  be  utilized  for  cook- 
ing cereals,  it  is  more  economical  to  buy  these  uncooked. 

140.  In  good  rice,  the  grains  are  yellowish  white  and 
wliole,  with  little  starch-dust  on  them.  Cornmeal  and 
hominy  spoil  quickly  ;  purchase  them  in  small  quanti- 
ties. Keep  cereals  in  jars  or  cans;  in  paper  bags  mice 
and  insects  may  get  to  them. 

141.  Fruit  with  cereals.  ‚Äî  Try  serving  fruit  with 
cereals : ‚Äî 

1.  Serve  berries,  apple  sauce,  sliced  peaches,  or  sliced 
well-ripened    bananas    in    the    saucer    with    the    mush. 


FUEL    FOODS:    SOME    STARCHY    PLANTS         77 

2.  Stir  figs  or  dates  cut  in  pieces,  into  mush  before 
serving  it.  (Especially  good  with  farina.)  The  mush 
may  be  moulded  with  the  fruit  in  it.  3.  Serve  cold 
moulded  cereals  with  peaches  or  bananas,  sliced. 
(Plate  y,  facing  p.  61.)  4.  Serve  baked  bananas  on 
separate  plates.      (For  recipe  see  p.  233.) 

Directions  for  cooking  Cereals 

142.  1.  Stir  the  cereal  gradually  into  the  required 
quantity  of  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  over  hot 
water  until  done.     (See  table  on  p.  79.) 

2.  To  save  time  and  fuel,  soak  uncooked  Cereals 
(Irish  oats,  cracked  Avheat,  hominy,  etc.)  in  cold  water 
before  cooking.  Those  requiring  more  than  one  hour 
to  cook  should  be  cooked  the  day  before  they  are  to  be 
eaten  and  reheated  in  the  morning.  If  necessary  to 
hasten  the  cooking  of  a  cereal,  boil  it  from  fifteen  to 
thirty  minutes,  tlien  steam  until  done. 

3.  Cook  steam-cooked  cereals,  as  a  rule,  twice  as  long 
as  is  directed  on  the  package.  Only  hy  long  cooking  are 
cereals  made  ivliolesome  and  tv ell-flavor ed ;  undercooked, 
as  most  people  eat  them,  they  occasion  sickness  often  laid 
to  other  causes. 

4.  Stir  coarse,  flaky  cereals  as  little  as  possible. 
Fine,  granular  cereals  may  be  beaten.  To  keep  these 
fine  cereals  from  lumping,  mix  them  with  cold  water 
instead  of  sprinkling  them  dry  into  boiling  water. 

5.  Cereals  should  absorb  all  the  water  they  are 
cooked  in ;  if  too  moist  when  nearly  done,  cook  un- 
covered for  a  time. 


78    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

6.  To  improve  rice,  farina,  or  hominy,  stir  in  one- 
quarter  of  a  cupful  of  milk  about  fifteen  minutes  before 
taking  from  the  fire,  and  leave  the  cover  off  during 
the  rest  of  the  time. 

143.  Food  value  of  cereals. ‚Äî Cereals  are  the  most 
important  of  vegetable  foods.  From  the  plains  of 
northern  Europe  and  Asia,  where  barley  grows  in  a 
climate  too  cold  for  other  grains,  to  the  rice-fields  of 
India  and  our  Southern  states,  man  depends  on  some 
cereal  for  his  daily  bread.  One  reason  for  this  is  that 
they  contain  in  varying  proportions  all  the  kinds  of 
foodstuffs  necessary  to  support  life.  Containing  so 
much  starch  as  they  do  (63  to  76  per  cent),  they  are 
valuable  chiefly  as  fuel  foods.  Oatmeal  and  cornmeal, 
having  more  fat  than  other  grains,  are  especially  good 
winter  foods.  Oatmeal  is  richer  in  food  material,  but 
on  account  of  its  indigestible  fibre,  less  nutritious, 
except  for  strong,  hard-working  people,  than  other 
grains.  Kice  is  almost  pure  starch ;  as  it  contains  no 
fat,  we  naturally  eat  butter  or  cream  with  it ;  but  this 
lack  of  fat  makes  it  all  the  better  for  use  in  a  tropical 
climate. 

Things    to    be    remembered    about     Breakfast 
Cereals 

144.  1.  It  is  better  not  to  eat  cereals  at  all  than  to 
eat  them  under-cooked. 

2.  Have  the  mush  stiff  enough  to  be  chewed.  If  too 
soft,  it  is  swallowed  without  being  mixed  with  saliva, 
and  is,  in  consequence,  less  readily  digested. 


FUEL  FOODS:  SOME  STARCHY  PLANTS 


79 


3.  Sugar,  a  heat-giver,  is  not  needed  with  cereals  ; 
milk  and  cream,  on  the  other  hand,  supply  fat  and 
other  substances,  of  which  cereals  have  little. 


TABLE   SHOWING  TIME  OF  COOKING,  AND  PROPORTIONS 
OF   SALT  AND   WATER,    FOR   BREAKFAST   CEREALS 


Kind. 

ill 
m 

Cupfuls  of 

Water 

to  One  Cupful  of 

Cereal. 

Method 

of 
Cooking. 

Time  of  Cooking, 
in  Hours. 

Oatmeal  (Raw)      . 

1 

Steam. 

If  soaked,  3  ;  if 
not,  6  or  more. 

Oatmeal  (Steam- 

cooked),    Rolled 

Oats,  H-0,  etc.  . 

1 

If 

Steam. 

Rice 

3  or  more. 

Boil. 

i 

Rice 

2i 

Steam. 

1 

Wheat  (Rolled  and 

Steam-cooked)  . 

n 

Steam. 

1 

Indian  Meal      .     . 

16 

Boil. 

'if  soaked,  3  ;  if 
not,  6. 

Hominy  .... 

4 

Steam. 

If  soaked,  2;  if 
not,  4. 

Wheaten  Grits .     . 

3  (or  if  soaked 
overnight  in 
1  cup  of  cold 
water,  add  2^ 
cups  of  boil- 

Steam. 

If  soaked,  2  ;  if 
not,  3. 

Farina    and    other 

ing  water). 

fine  Wheat  Prep- 

arations   .     .     . 

1 

3f 

Steam. 

1  to  3 

1  If  the  meal  is  sprinkled  in  dry,  continue  adding  it  'until  it  begins 
to  float ;  after  that,  add  no  more. 


80    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Reading.  ‚Äî  Chapter  XVIII,  Cereals,  in  Food  Products  of  the 
World.  (Drawings  of  stalks  of  rice  and  millet),  pp.  l-oO  and 
36-39  in  Foods  and  Beverages.  Kice  Culture,  p.  66,  in  the  Domestic 
Science  Reader. 

For  poetry,  read  "Hiawatha's  Fasting"  and  "Blessing  the 
Cornfields."  Also  see  pictures  illustrating  grain  shipping  in  Har- 
per's Weekly,  October  9,  1897.     (Vol.  41,  pp.  1000  and  1001.) 

^Section  4.    "Wheat,  the  King  of  Cereals 

When  summer's  hourly  mellowing  change 

May  breathe,  with  many  roses  sweet, 

Upon  the  thousand  waves  of  wheat 
That  ripple  round  the  lonely  grange.  ‚Äî  Tennyson. 

145.  Wheat,  being  capable  of  cultivation  in  a  greater 
variety  of  soils  and  climates  than  any  other  grain,  and 
being  also  better  suited  for  bread-making  and  for  use 
as  a  constant  article  of  diet,  has  been  called  "  the  King 
of  Cereals." 

A  Study  of  Wheat.     Part  I 

146.  ‚Äî  A.  Note  the  elliptical  scar  at  the  base  of  a  wheat  grain. 
This  shows  where  the  germ,  or  embryo,  lies,  from  which  the  seed- 
ling springs. 

B.  Crush  a  few  grains  of  wheat,  moisten  them  with  boiling 
water,  and  test  them  for  starch. 

If  sprouted  grains  ^  be  tested  for  starch,  much  of  it 
will   be    found   to   have    disappeared,   and,  under   the 

1  Wheat  and  other  cereals  may  be  grown  in  earth  or  sawdust,  or 
on  moist  blotting  paper  laid  on  a  plate  and  covered  with  a  glass  jar 
or  cheese-dish  cover. 


FUEL  FOODS:  SOME  STARCHY  PLANTS    81 

microscope,    the   granules  left    will    appear    rough,  as 
if  eaten  into. 

147.  How  the  seedling  is  fed.  ‚Äî  What  has  become  of 
the  starch  ?  A\^e  have  before  seen  that  Nature  is  careful 
to  provide  food  for  baby  plants.  In  what  part  of  the 
potato  plant  is  starch  stored  ?  What  connection  is 
there  between  that  part  of  the  plant  from  which  the 
young  plant  springs  and  the  location  of  the  food 
supply  ? 

The  plant,  like  the  human  body,  cannot  make  use 
of  starch  until  it  is  digested.  In  what  does  the  diges- 
tion of  starch  consist?  This  digestion  in  grains  is 
effected  by  diastase,  a  substance  developed  in  the  seed 
during  sprouting.  What  animal  substance  do  you 
know  of  that  can  effect  this  change  ? 

148.  Kinds  of  wheat.  ‚Äî Wheat  is  called  winter  wheat 
or  spring  wheat,  according  to  whether  it  is  best  suited 
to  being  sown  in  autumn  or  in  spring.  Wheat  that 
endures  the  cold  and  dampness  of  winter  is  soft  and 
starchy  ;  wheat  that  comes  up  quickly  in  sunny  spring 
weather  is  hard.  Even  spring  wheat  is  soft  in  a  rainy, 
cold  season.  These  two  sorts  of  wheat  produce  quite 
different  kinds  of  flour,  as  you  will  learn  in  the  next 
chapter. 

149.  Harvesting.  ‚Äî  Wheat  ripens  in  our  Southern 
states  in  early  summer,  in  the  most  Northern  states 
in  the  autumn.  When  the  ears  are  heavy  and  golden, 
it  is  cut  down  and  bound  into  shocks.     The  grains  are 


82    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

threshed  out  of  the  husks  and  sent  to  market.  Until 
recently  this  work  was  done  mostly  by  hand,  but  now 
steam-reapers,  binders,  and  threshers  are  common  on 
the  great  farms  in  the  wheat  regions. 

Home-work.  ‚Äî  Grow  different  kinds  of  grain  at  home  in  different 
ways ;  make  drawings  of  the  seedlings  in  different  stages  of  growth. 


CHAPTER   III 

TISSUE-BUILDING  FOODS:  EGGS  AND  MILK 

The  palate  is  the  janitor;  unless  he  be  conciliated,  the  most  nutri- 
tious food  will  find  no  welcome. 

Section  1.  Eggs;  Albumin 

150.  A  hen's  egg  consists  of  shell,  membrane,  white, 
and  yolk,  the  yolk  being  kept  in  place  by  two  twisted 
cords  of  white.  The  little  mass  in  the  yolk  is  the 
embryo  from  which  the  chicken  grows,  just  as  the  seed- 
ling grows  from  the  embryo  of  the  seed.  The  contents 
of  the  egg^  like  the  seed-contents,  nourish  the  develop- 
ing embryo  ;  when  ready  to  be  hatched,  the  chick  has 
absorbed  all  of  these  contents  and  part  of  the  shell,  the 
egg  being  a  perfect  food  for  an  unhatched  chicken,  as 
starch  is  for  a  seedling. 

151.  Why  eggs  spoil.  ‚Äî  If  not  brooded,  an  egg  loses 
water  by  evaporation  through  the  pores  in  its  shell,  air 
enters  to  take  the  place  of  this,  and  the  egg  spoils. 
We  may  keep  eggs  good  by  keeping  air  out  of  them. 
Can  you  suggest  any  ways  of  doing  this  ? 

Selecting  and  Testing  Eggs^ 

152.  To  tell  whether  an  egg  is  fresh.  ‚Äî  1.  Observe 
the  shell.    A  fresh  egg  has  a  thick,  rough  shell.    2.   Hold 

1  As  some  eggs  are  larger  and  heavier  than  others,  it  would  be 
fairer  to  sell  them  by  weight  than  by  number. 

83 


84    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

the  egg  between  your  eye  and  the  light.  If  clear  and 
translucent,  it  is  fresh  ;  if  cloudy,  it  is  stale.  By  egg 
dealers  this  test  is  made  in  a  dark  room  with  a  candle, 
and  it  is  then  called  "  candling  "  eggs.  3.  Drop  the  egg 
into  cold  water.  If  it  sinks,  it  is  fresh  ;  if  it  floats,  it 
is  stale.  4.  Shake  the  egg^  holding  it  near  your  ear. 
If  the  contents  move,  it  is  somewhat  stale  ;  if  they 
rattle,  it  is  spoiled. 

Think  out  the  explanation  of  these  tests. 

Directions  for  the  Care  and  Preservation 
OF  Eggs 

153.  1.  Wash  eggs  with  a  damp  cloth  when  they 
come  into  the  house.  The  shells  may  be  saved  to  clear 
coffee. 

2.  Keep  eggs  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

3.  In  spring  or  early  summer,  when  eggs  are  plen- 
tiful and  cheap,  they  may  be  preserved  by  packing 
them,  small  end  down,  in  bran,  sawdust,  lime,  or  sand ; 
by  immersing  them  in  lime-Avater  ;  or  by  coating  them 
with  varnish  or  fat.  Dealers  sometimes  keep  eggs  in 
cold  storage  several  months.  Preserved  eggs  may  be 
combined  with  other  materials  in  cooking,  but  only 
fresh  ones  are  fit  to  serve  plain,  or  in  omelets  and  other 
egg  dishes. 

154.  Experiment  to  find   out  the   best  temperature  for  cooking 

6ggs.  ‚Äî  Cook  one  egg  (a)  in  boiling  water  for  three  minutes ;  an- 
otiier  (b)  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes ;  put  a  third  (c)  into 
boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it  (about  one  pint  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan), remove  the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  stand  covered  on 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    EGGS   AND   MILK     85 

the  table  from  six  to  ten  minutes.  Break  the  eggs  and  compare  their 
contents.  In  which  is  the  white  hard  and  the  yolk  unchanged? 
In  which  is  the  white  hard  and  the  yolk  sticky  or  partly  dry?  In 
which  is  the  white  a  tender  jelly  and  the  yolk  thick? 

155.  An  egg  put  into  boiling  water  and  removed 
from  the  heat  is,  at  the  end  of  about  ten  minutes, 
evenly  cooked  through,  the  temperature  of  the  water 
falling  during  this  time  to  about  168¬∞  F.  The  tem- 
perature of  the  egg  averages  about  185¬∞  F. 

156.  Experiment  to  show  why  eggs  should  be  cooked  below  the 
boiling-point  of  water.  ‚Äî  Put  a  little  white-of-egg  in  a  test-tube ; 
hold  the  test-tube  and  chemical  thermometer  in  a  vessel  of  water. 
Heat  the  water  gradually.  How  does  the  white-of-egg  look  at 
150¬∞  F.  ?  At  180*^?  Stir  with  glass  rod  or  a  stick  to  show  degree  of 
solidity.  Note  appearance  and  degree  of  solidity  at  212¬∞.  Keep  the 
water  boiling  for  several  minutes ;  then  take  out  some  of  the  white- 
of-egg  and  examine  it. 

Albumin 

157.  Composition  and  food  value  of  eggs.  ‚Äî  The  most 
important  foodstuff  in  eggs  is  albumin  (from  albus, 
white),  a  sticky,  glairy  substance,  found  in  both  the 
white  and  the  yolk.  The  white  is  nearly  pure  albumin 
and  water ;  the  yolk  contains  much  fat  in  the  form  of 
oil.i  Eggs  also  contain  a  small  quantity  of  valuable 
mineral  salts.  What  important  foodstuffs  do  eggs 
lack  ?  Name  some  foods  that  may  be  eaten  with  eggs 
to  supply  this  lack. 

Albumin  is  a  tissue -builder,  the  first  foodstuffs  we 
have  learned  about  that  contains  nitrogen,  the  element 

1  For  distinction  between  oil  and  fat  see  ¬ß  342. 


86    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

essential  to  tissue-building.  Plants  draw  nitrogen  from 
the  soil ;  animals  obtain  it  from  their  food,  neither 
being  able  to  make  use  of  it  as  it  exists  uncombined  in 
the  air.  Foodstuffs  containing  nitrogen,  also  foods  hav- 
ing a  considerable  amount  of  such  foodstuffs,  are  called 
nitrogenous  ;  others  are  called  non-nitrogenous.  Potatoes 
contain  a  little  albumin,  distinguishable  as  froth  on  the 
water  squeezed  out  in  analyzing  them.      (¬ß  110.) 

Make  a  table  showing  the  composition  of  eggs,  similar 
to  that  showing  the  composition  of  potatoes  on  p.  62. 

158.  Tests  for  albumin.  ‚Äî  A  common  test  for  albumin 
is  heat.  If  potato  water  or  other  albuminous  liquid  be 
boiled,  the  albumin  can  be  recognized  by  its  solidifying. 

159.  The  chemical  test  for  nitrogenous  substances  is  nitric 
acid,  which  turns  albumin  and  other  nitrogenous  food- 
stuffs yellow.  Being  a  dangerous  liquid  it  must  he  used  only 
by  experienced  persons. 

160.  The  solidifying  of  albumin  is  called  coagulation. 
Have  you  known  more  substances  to  be  changed  from 
liquid  to  solid,  or  from  solid  to  liquid,  by  heat  ? 

161.  Digestion  of  albumin;  gastric  juice.  ‚Äî  The  diges- 
tion of  albumin  begins  in  the  stomach,  which  secretes 
for  the  purpose  a  fluid  called  gastric  juice,  containing 
pepsin  and  hydrochloric  acid.  These  together  change 
tissue-building  foodstuffs,  including  albumin,  into  more 
soluble  substances. 

Experiments  to  show  how  eggs  are  digested.  ‚Äî  Label  three  test- 
tubes  a,  h,  and  c,  respectively.  Into  a  put  about  one  teaspoonf  ul  of 
the  finely  chopped  white  of  a  hard-boiled  egg ;   into  h  an   equal 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    EGGS   AND    MILK     87 

quantity  of  the  chopped  white  of  a  soft-cooked  egg  (see  recipe), 
and  into  c  a  piece  of  hard-boiled  white,  not  chopped.  Half  fill 
the  test-tubes  with  pepsin  and  dilute  hydrochloric  acid,^  and  set 
them  in  warm  water  (about  98¬∞  F.). 

At  the  end  of  an  hour  and  a  half  examine  them.  In  which  has 
the  white-of -egg  been  most  rapidly  dissolved,  i.e.  digested?  After 
five  or  six  hours  look  at  them  again.  If  any  of  the  egg  is  still 
undigested  set  it  aside  and  look  at  it  again  the  next  day.  Does 
white-of-egg  digest  more  quickly  in  one  piece  or  when  chopped  ? 
What  do  we  learn  from  this  about  chewing  food  ?  Which  digests 
more  quickly,  hard-boiled  or  soft-cooked  albumin  ? 

TABLE  SHOWING  EFFECT  OF  HEAT  ON  ALBUMIN  2 


Degree  of  Heat. 

Appearance. 

Digestibility. 

Raw. 

Clear,  sticky,  pale 
straw-colored  liquid. 

Quickly  and  easily 
digestible. 

Heated  to  134^  F. 

Fine  threads 

of  semi-solid  white 

substance 

appear  in  liquid. 

Still  readily  digestible. 

Heated  to  160¬∞  F. 

Tender,  white  jelly. 

Readily  digestible. 

Heated  to  212¬∞  F. 

Tough,  white  jelly. 

Less  easily  and  quickly 
digestible. 

Heated  to  300¬∞  F., 
or  higher. 

Hard,  horny  substance. 

"  Indigestible  "  ;  i.e. 
digested  with  difficulty. 

1  A  digestive  juice  similar  to  that  in  the  stomach  may  be  made  from 
1.1  parts  of  pepsin  and  7.5  parts  of  hydrochloric  acid  to  500  parts  of 
water. 

2  Yolk  albumin  coagulates  at  a  lower  temperature  than  white  albu- 
min. In  a  "  three-minute  "  boiled  egg,  however,  the  white  is  hard  and 
the  yolk  nearly  or  quite  raw,  the  heat  not  having  had  time  to  penetrate 
to  the  centre  of  the  egg. 


88    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

162.  It  has  been  found  that  eggs  cooked  at  180¬∞  can  be 
completely  digested  by  artificial  means  in  five  hours,  while 
boiled  eggs  take  longer.  It  is  probable  that  the  same  is  true 
of  their  digestion  in  the  stomach. 

Recipes 

SOFT-COOKED    EgGS 

For  two4i^iiF6  allow  one  pint  of  water;  for  each  addi- 
tional egg  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  water  additional. 
Put  the  water  in  a  saucepan,  let  it  come  to  the  boiling- 
point,  lower  the  eggs  into  it  with  a  spoon,  remove  at 
once  from  the  fire,  and  let  stand  covered  about  ten  min- 
utes. The  fewer  the  number  of  eggs  to  be  cooked,  the 
smaller  should  be  the  saucepan,  in  order  that  the  smaller 
quantity  of  water  may  cover  them. 

163.  To  toast  bread.  ‚Äî  Cut  stale  bread  (at  least  two 
days  old)  into  slices  one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Trim 
off  the  crusts,  leaving  the  slices  rectangular;  lay  the 
bread  in  a  toaster,  and  hold  over  a  bright  coal  fire,  turn- 
ing frequently  in  order  that  both  sides  may  brown  alike. 
Hold  the  bread  well  above  the  fire  at  first,  to  dry  it; 
then  nearer,  until  both  sides  are  an  even  golden  brown. 

Tt  may  be  buttered  at  once,  but  is  more  wholesome  if 
buttered  as  it  is  eaten.  Serve  on  a  doily  on  a  hot  plate, 
uncovered. 

For  water  toast  dip  the  toasted  slices  quickly  into 
boiling  salted  water  (half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  one 
cupful  of  water),  using  a  fork.  Spread  with  softened 
butter  1  and  serve  at  once. 

1  To  soften  butter  work  it  with  a  spoon  or  knife,  ‚Äî  in  cold  weather  in 
a  warmed  bowl. 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    EGGS   AND   MILK     89 

Eggs  dropped  on  Toast  (Plate  VII,  facing  p.  102) 

Prepare  squares  or  circles  (cut  with  a  muffin  ring) 
of  water  toast ;  arrange  on  a  platter.  On  each  break 
carefully  a  soft-cooked  egg^  keeping  the  yolk  whole 
and  in  the  centre  of  the  slice  of  toast ;  sprinkle  a  little 
salt,  and  if  you  like,  a  tiny  bit  of  white  pepper,  on  each 
yolk,  and  serve. 

164.  How  to  break  eggs.  ‚Äî  To  break  an  egg,  hold  it 
in  the  left  hand  and  crack  the  shell  by  striking  it 
sharply  with  a  knife  ;  then  put  your  thumbs  together  at 
the  crack,  and  gently  break  the  shell  apart.    (Plate  VI.) 

To  separate  the  yolk  from  the  white,  hold  the  egg  up- 
right while  breaking  the  shell  apart,  so  that  the  yolk 
will  remain  in  one  half  of  the  shell  :  slip  the  yolk  from 
one  piece  of  shell  to  the  other  several  times,  letting  the 
white  run  over  the  edge  into  a  bowl  or  plate.  Caution. 
‚Äî  When  using  several  eggs,  if  you  are  not  sure  of  their 
freshness,  break  each  singly  into  a  cup,  and  examine  it 
before  adding  it  to  the  rest. 

165.  Beating  eggs  ;  distinction  between  beating,  stirring 
and  folding.  ‚Äî  Beat  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  a  fork  or  a 
Dover  beater ;  beat  whites  in  a  bowl  with  a  Dover 
beater,  or  on  a  deep  plate  or  platter  with  a  fork  or  wire 
whisk.  Whites  are  beaten  stiff  when  a  knife-cut  made 
in  the  mass  does  not  close  ;  dri/,  when  the  gloss  is  gone 
from  them,  and  flaky  bits  fly  off  as  you  beat.  Yolks 
well  beaten  are  thick  and  much  lighter  colored  than 
before  beating. 


90    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Eggs  are  beaten  slightly  (i.e.  until  the  white  and 
yolk  are  mingled)  to  make  them  smooth  and  creamy, 
for  French  omelet,  custards,  and  some  sauces.  They 
are  beaten  till  light  to  entangle  air  in  fine  bubbles  in 
the  albumin.  Can  you  beat  in  more  air  by  beating  the 
whole  Qgg  or  by  beating  the  white  separately  from  the 
yolk  ?  To  heat  with  a  spoon  or  fork,  carry  it  swiftly 
through  the  material,  tilting  the  dish  so  that  the  mate- 
rial will  be  "  flopped "  over  at  each  stroke.  To  stir^ 
move  the  spoon  steadily  in  a  widening  circle.  To  fold 
one  ingredient  into  another,  put  the  spoon  in  edgewise, 
lift  the  ingredients,  and  turn  them  over  ;  repeat  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  Avoid  stirring  after  heating  or  fold- 
ing.    Why  ? 

Recipes 
Eggs  in  a  Nest  (Plate  VII) 

Separate  the  white  of  an  Qgg  from  the  yolk.  Beat 
the  white  stiff  and  dry ;  put  it  in  a  cup  or  small  bowl, 
making  in  the  top  of  it  a  hollow  the  size  of  the  yolk  ; 
into  this  hollow  slip  the  yolk.  Cook  in  a  covered 
saucepan  containing  boiling  water  until  the  top  of  the 
white  is  firm  (about  two  minutes).     Serve  in  the  cup. 

French  Omelet 

Eggs,    4.  Salt,       }4  ^o  H  teaspoonful. 

Water,  4  tablespoonfuls.  Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Butter,  1  tablespoonful. 

Beat  the  eggs  lightly  (about  twelve  strokes  with  a 
fork),  add  water,  salt,  and  pepper.  Melt  the  butter  in 
a  hot  omelet-pan  without  letting  it  brown.     Turn  in 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    EGGS   AND   MILK    91 

the  eggs,  shake  pan  gently,  and  as  the  eggs  thicken  lift 
it  lightly  with  a  fork  or  knife,  letting  the  uncooked 
part  run  underneath.  The  omelet  should  slip  on  the  pan 
without  sticking  anywhere.  When  creamy  all  through, 
roll  it  up,  rolling  toward  the  left  side  of  the  pan.  Hold 
a  hot  platter  over  the  edge  of  the  pan,  and  turn  pan 
and  platter  over,  so  that  the  omelet  will  fall  in  the  cen- 
tre of  the  platter  ;  or  lift  it  out  on  two  broad  knives. 
Garnish  with  parsle}^,  and  serve  at  once  ;  if  it  stands,  it 
will  fall. 

The  omelet  is  puffed  up  with  steam  from  the  mois- 
ture in  the  eggs  and  the  water  added  to  them.  What 
happens  to  steam  when  it  cools?  What  will  be  the 
effect  on  the  omelet? 

Fancy  omelets.  ‚Äî French  Omelet  may  have  spread  over 
it  before  it  is  folded  a  rounded  teaspoonful  of  fine-cut 
parsley,  a  few  teaspoon fuls  of  chopped  ham  or  other 
cooked  meat,  or  of  grated  cheese  ;  or  cooked,  chopped 
oysters  or  clams  may  be  used,  or  peas  or  tomatoes,  ‚Äî 
almost  any  cooked  food,  in  fact,  this  being  a  good  way 
to  utilize  "  left-overs."  These  fancy  omelets  are  named 
according  to  the  ingredient  added.  Cheese  Omelet,  Ham 
Omelet,  etc.  Have  the  filling  hot  when  put  into  the 
omelet. 

Cup  Custards 

Scalded  milk,  1  quart.  Sugar,  yi  cupful. 

Eggs,  4  to  6.  Salt,      %  teaspoonful. 

Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  salt, 
then,  slowly,  the  hot  milk.     When  the  sugar  has  dis- 


92    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

solved,  pour  into  cups  (about  six),  and  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  over  each  cup.  Set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  pointed 
knife  inserted  in  the  custards  comes  clean.  Do  not  let 
the  water  in  the  pan  boil.     Why? 

Reading.  ‚Äî  "Poultry  and  Eggs,"  American  Kitchen  Magazine, 
April,  1900.  Vol.  XIII,  No.  1.     P.  114,  in  Foods  and  Beverages. 

Section  2.    Milk  and  other  Dairy  Products 

166.  What  the  seed  is  for  the  seedling,  and  the  Qgg 
for  the  unhatched  chick,  milk  is  for  the  young  of  milk- 
giving  animals,  ‚Äî  that  is,  a  perfect  food.  Why  it 
comes  nearer  than  eggs  do  to  being  a  perfect  food  for 
any  human  being  we  shall  see  when  we  have  found 
out  its  composition. 

A  Study  of  Milk 

167.  ‚Äî Analysis  of  milk ;  experiments. ‚Äî  A.  With  a  spoon  remove 
the  cream  from  one  pint  of  milk  that  has  stood  over  night.  Drop 
a  little  of  the  cream  on  unglazed  paper.  Examine  the  paper  after 
it  has  dried  for  a  time.  Can  you  tell  from  the  spot  one  foodstuff 
that  is  present  in  milk  ? 

B.  Test  a  little  of  the  milk  with  iodine.  Is  there  any  starch 
in  milk? 

C.  Boil  the  rest  of  the  milk.  What  do  you  see  on  the  top  of 
it?  What  do  you  think  this  scum  is?  Is  there  water  in  milk? 
Air?     How  do  you  know? 

D.  Remove  the  albuminous  scum  and  put  a  little  of  the  milk 
in  a  test-tube.  Add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  What  happens? 
Strain  the  milk  through  a  cloth,  and  examine  the  solid  substance 
{curd)  and  the  watery  liquid  (wheg). 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    EGGS   AND   MILK     93 

E.  Shake  a  little  white-of-egg  and  water  together  in  a  test- 
tube  ;  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  and  note  the  coagulation. 

168.  If  a  drop  of  nitric  acid  be  added  to  milk,  what 
result  would  you  expect  ?     What  would  this  show  ? 

169.  Composition  of  milk.  ‚Äî  Cow's  milk  contains  fat, 
albumin,  and  another  substance  that  is  not  coagulated 
by  heat,  but  is  coagulated  by  vinegar.  This  substance 
is  casein,^  a  tissue-builder.  What  element  must  it  con- 
tain ?  What  other  tissue-builder  can  you  name  ?  Coag- 
ulated casein,  when  dried,  is  a  hard,  horny,  yellow  solid. ^ 
Dissolved  in  the  whey  is  a  little  milk-sugar  and  mineral 
matter.  Sugar  closely  resembles  starch  in  composition, 
and,  like  it,  is  energy-producing.  What  elements  does 
it  contain  ? 

170.  Its  food  value.  ‚Äî  Milk  is  seen  to  contain  one  or 
more  of  each  of  the  chief  kinds  of  foodstuffs,  tissue- 
building,  heat-giving,  and  strength-giving ;  besides 
water  and  mineral  matter.  For  the  calf  it  is  a  perfect 
food,  and  almost  perfect  for  a  human  baby.  For  older 
people,  however,  it  is  not  a  well-balanced  food,  i.e. 
these  foodstuffs  are  not  in  the  right  proportions. 
There  is  not  enough  sugar  to  give  the  strength  a 
grown  man  needs  for  his  work,  and  there  is  so  much 
water  that  he  would  have  to  drink  an  enormous  quantity 
of  milk  to  obtain  the  necessary  quantity  of  foodstuffs. 

1  The  albumin  is  in  true  solution,  the  casein  in  partial  solution 
only.     In  this  state  it  is  called  by  chemists  caseinogen  (casein-maker). 

2  It  can  be  so  toughened  as  to  resemble  celluloid,  in  which  state 
it  is  made  into  buttons  and  similar  articles. 


94    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Mention  some  foods  commonly  eaten  with  milk.  What 
foodstuff  or  foodstuffs,  lacking  in  milk,  do  these  foods 
supply  ?  Remember  that  milk  is  food,  not  drink  merely  ; 
less  of  other  food  is  needed  at  a  meal  with  which  milk 
is  drunk.  Drink  it  slowly.  It  is  more  readily  digested 
when  taken  in  sips. 

171.  Buying  milk;  dangers  of  cheap  milk.  ‚Äî  Good  milk 
is  a  yellowish  white,  opaque  liquid,  having  a  slightly 
sweet  taste.  It  should  have  no  sediment  and  should 
not  look  blue  around  the  edges.  Skim  milk  sells  for 
about  one-half  the  price  of  whole  milk.  It  is,  of  course, 
poor  in  fat,  but  is  richer  than  whole  milk  in  casein  and 
albumin,  and  may  be  used  instead  of  it  for  many  pur- 
poses in  cooking.  Skim  milk  is  far  more  desirable  and 
economical  than  so-called  whole  milk  sold  at  less  than 
the  regular  market-price.  This  is  likely  either  to  be 
of  poor  quality,  perhaps  colored  to  make  it  look  rich,  or 
to  be  watered,  in  which  case  a  quart  of  it  may  contain 
no  more  nourishment  than  a  pint  of  "  honest "  milk. 

172.  Care  of  milk.  ‚Äî  Milk  quickly  absorbs  tastes, 
odors,  and  impurities.  It  is  more  liable  than  almost 
any  other  food  to  contain  disease  germs.  From  the 
time  it  is  drawn  from  the  cow  it  should  be  kept  in  clean 
vessels  (glass,  earthenware,  or  bright  tin  ;  not  wood), 
in  a  cool,  clean  place.  Otherwise  it  rapidly  sours,  and 
sometimes  undergoes  changes  that  make  it  actually 
poisonous.  Milk  sold  from  open  cans  in  cities  is  more 
likely  than  bottled  milk  to  contain  dirt,  and  to  sour 
quickly. 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    EGGS   AND   MILK     95 

173.  Scalding  milk.  ‚Äî  To  make  sure  that  milk  is  safe 
for  use,  especially  for  children,  who  are  most  likely  to 
be  made  sick  b}^  impure  milk,  scald  it  (i.e.  heat  it  to 
about  160¬∞  F.).  This  is  best  done  in  a  double  boiler. ^ 
When  small  bubbles  appear  at  the  edge  of  the  milk  it 
is  scalded.  Use  when  cool.  Boiling  makes  it  less  di- 
gestible. What  substance  in  the  milk  should  never  be 
heated  to  the  boiling-point  ?  Explain  why  milk  tum- 
blers should  not  be  put  directly  into  hot  water. 

A  Study  of  Milk  {continued) 

174.  Souring  of  milk.  ‚Äî  F.  Examine  sour  milk.  Notice  the 
separation  of  the  curd  from  the  whey.  What*  substance,  added  to 
milk,  makes  it  separate  like  this  ?  Taste  the  sour  milk.  Does  it 
taste  at  all  like  vinegar? 

The  sour  taste  of  the  milk  is  caused  by  the  presence 
of  an  acid.  When  milk  is  kept  at  the  ordinary  tem- 
perature more  than  a  few  hours  the  sugar  in  it  changes 
to  lactic  acid  (milk  acid).  This  acid,  like  the  acid  in 
vinegar,  coagulates  casein. 

175.  The  change  from  sugar  to  lactic  acid  is  caused  by 
certain  bacteria  (bacilli  of  lactic  acid)  that  get  into  milk  from 
the  air.     (¬ß  446.) 

Recipe  for  Cottage  Cheese 

Thick  sour  milk,  1  quart.  Salt,      X  teaspoonful. 

Butter,  2  teaspoonfuls.       Cream,  enough  to  make  cheese 

as  moist  as  desired. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  pan  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
or  into  another  pan  of  hot  water ;  as  soon  as  the  curd 

1  For  directions  for  pasteurizing  milk,  see  ¬ß¬ß  466  and  469. 


96    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

separates  from  the  whey,  strain  the  milk  through  a 
cloth.  Squeeze  the  curd  in  the  cloth  until  rather  dry. 
Put  it  in  a  bowl,  and  with  a  spoon  mix  it  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  the  butter,  salt,  and  cream.  Serve  lightly 
heaped  up. 

176.  Action  of  rennet  on  milk.  ‚Äî  A  different  kind  of 
coagulation  of  casein  is  produced  by  rennet,  a  substance 
prepared  from  the  lining  of  a  calf's  stomach.  Rennet 
is  sold  for  use  either  in  an  alcohol  solution  ("liquid 
rennet  ")  or  in  tablets. 

Recipe  for  Rennet  Custard  or  Slip 

Milk,    1  quart.  Extract  of  vanilla,  1  tea- 

Sugar,  X  cupful.  spoonful. 

Liquid  rennet,  1  tablespoonful, 
or 
1  rennet  tablet  dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  of  water. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  is  luke- 
warm. Add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved. 
Stir  in  the  vanilla  and  rennet,  and  pour  into  a  glass 
dish.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  room  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  ;  then  set  it  in  a  cool  place,  and  leave  it  until  it 
is  firm.  Sprinkle  with  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon or  nutmeg,  and  serve  with  cream  (or  milk)  and 
sugar. 

To  make  Coffee  Rennet  Custard,  use  two  and  three- 
fourths  cupfuls  of  milk  and  add  one  and  one-fourth 
cupfuls  of  strong,  cold  coffee  after  taking  from  fire. 
Use  one-fourth  to  one-half  cupful  of  sugar. 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    MILK  AND   EGGS     97 

177.  Does  the  curd  formed  by  rennet  differ  in  any- 
way from  that  formed  by  an  acid  ?  If  so,  how  ?  Does 
curdling  make  milk  sour,  or  does  souring  make  it 
curdle  ? 

178.  Digestion  of  milk.  ‚Äî  Rennin,  the  ferment  that  gives 
rennet  its  power  to  coagulate  milk,  is  secreted  by  the  human 
stomach  as  by  the  calf  s  stomach,  to  aid  in  digesting  milk. 

By  its  action  the  nitrogenous  parts  of  the  milk  are  sepa- 
rated from  the  rest,  that  they  may  be  acted  on  by  pepsin, 
while  the  fat  and  sugar  pass  on  to  be  digested  in  the  intes- 
tine.    (Digestion  of  Albumin.) 

BUTTER 

179.  Fat  naturally  exists  in  milk  in  little  spheres  or 
globules  about  Yb'^'5  ^^  '^^  inch  in  diameter.  When  fat 
or  oil  is  suspended  in  this  way  in  a  liquid  it  is  said  to 
be  emulsified. 

Experiment  to  illustrate  emulsion.  ‚Äî  Shake  some  lime-water  and 
linseed  oil  together  in  a  bottle ;  hold  the  bottle  still  and  observe 
the  oil  globules  rise. 

180.  Milk  under  the  microscope.  ‚Äî  Look  at  a  drop  of  milk 
through  a  microscope,  then  at  a  drop  of  cream.  Which  has  the 
greater  number  of  fat  globules  ?  Make  memory  drawings  of  what 
you  see. 

181.  The  fat  globules,  being  lighter  than  the  rest  of 
the  milk,  tend  to  rise  to  the  top  as  cream.  If  cream  be 
vigorously  beaten  or  churned,  the  globules  lose  their 
shape  and  stick  together,  forming  butter.  Some  of  the 
casein  clings  to  them.  This  is  usually  washed  out,  as 
it  decomposes  easily.     Butter  is  salted  to  further  pro- 


98    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

tect  it  from  spoiling.  It  is  usually  packed  in  wooden 
tubs  for  market.  Butter  moulded  in  "  prints  "  for  im- 
mediate table  use  is  made  less  salt  than  tub  butter. 
"  Sweet "  butter  contains  no  salt  and  sells  at  a  high 
price. 

182.  Economy  in  buying  and  using  butter.  ‚Äî  Good 
butter  has  about  eighty -seven  per  cent  of  fat  ^  is  firm,  not 
crumbly,  yields  little  water  when  pressed,  and  foams 
when  heated.  It  is  wiser  to  economize  by  using  some 
less  expensive  fat,  such  as  beef  fat,  in  cooking,  than  to 
buy  a  poor  grade  of  butter  because  it  is  cheap.  So- 
called  "  cooking-butter  "  is  often  an  imitation  of  butter, 
or  rancid  (spoiled)  butter,  worked  over  and  unfit  to  be 
eaten. 

Milk  from  grass-fed  cows  makes  rich,  yellow  butter. 
Winter  butter  comes  white,  and  is  usually  colored  for 
market  with  anatto,  a  substance  obtained  from  the  seeds 
of  a  tropical  plant.  Sour  cream  makes  the  finest-fla- 
vored butter. 

183.  Experiment    to    illustrate    butter-making.  ‚Äî  Put 

half  a  cupful  of  thick  cream  into  a  small  bowl  and 
beat  it  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  until  it  separates  into 
buttermilk  and  specks  of  butter.  Gather  the  butter 
into  a  lump,  and  after  pressing  out  as  much  of  the 
buttermilk  as  you  can,  wash  the  butter  under  a  stream 
of  cold  water.  Work  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  remove 
the  water,  and  add  a  few  grains  of  salt.  Dip  butter- 
spatters  into  hot  water,  then  into  cold,  and  with  them 
roll  the  butter  into  a  ball.     (Plate  VI,  facing  p.  89.) 


TISSUE-BUILDING    FOODS:    MILK    AND    EGGS     99 

184.  Butter  as  food.  ‚Äî  Does  butter  rank  as  tissue- 
builder,  strength-giver,  or  heat-giver?  Name  some  of 
the  foods  with  which  butter  is  commonly  eaten.  Does 
it  supply  anything  that  these  foods  lack?  If  so,  what? 
Do  you  need  as  much  butter  with  corn  bread  as  with 
white  bread  ?  As  much  when  you  eat  bacon  for  break- 
fast as  when  you  eat  lean  meat? 

Recipe  for  Whipped  Cream 

Cream,  ^  pint.     Powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls. 
Extract  of  vanilla,  %.  to  %  teaspoonful. 

If  the  cream  is  thicker  than  ordinary  milkman's 
cream,  dilute  with  milk,  or  it  will  turn  to  butter  when 
whipped.  Whip  it  with  a  wire  whisk  or  a  Dover 
beater  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape,  beat  in  the 
sugar  and  vanilla,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till  served. 
In  warm  weather,  set  the  bowl  of  cream  in  a  pan  of 
cracked  ice  while  whipping  it.  Serve  on  hot  chocolate, 
or  as  a  sauce  with  desserts. 

CHEESE 

185.  Cheese  is  the  curd  of  milk,  drained,  salted,  and 
pressed.  Cheese  made  from  unskimmed  milk  is  about 
one-half  fat,  the  fat  globules  being  entangled  in  the 
curd.  Skimmed  milk  cheese  is  sometimes  '^  filled  "  by 
having  lard  or  other  cheap  fat  added  to  it.  "Filled" 
cheese  is  greasy  when  warm,  has  little  flavor,  and  does 
not  keep  well.  Neufchatel  and  other  cream  cheeses  are 
made  from  milk  to  which  cream  has  been  added. 

LofC. 


100   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

186.  Food  value  of  cheese.  ‚Äî  Cheese,  like  eggs,  is  a 
food  containing  much  nourishment  in  small  bulk,  ‚Äî  a 
concentrated  food.  It  should  be  used  more  commonly 
than  it  is.  Cheese  may  take  the  place  of  meat,  maca- 
roni cooked  with  cheese  being  hearty  enough  to  form 
the  main  dish  of  a  meal.  (Recipe  on  p.  121.)  One 
pound  of  cheese  contains  as  much  nutriment  as  two 
pounds  of  meat.  Unfortunately,  it  is  somewhat  diffi- 
cult of  digestion,  and  for  this  reason  should  not  be 
eaten  by  delicate  persons  or  by  young  children.  For 
healthy  people,  particularly  for  men  engaged  in  active 
work,  it  is  one  of  the  best  of  foods. 

Which  one  of  the  three  kinds  of  foodstuffs  does 
cheese  lack  almost  entirely?  Name  some  foods  suit- 
able to  be  eaten  with  cheese. 

Recipes 

Cheesed  Crackers 

Crackers  (zephyrettes),  6. 

Grated  cheese,  about  6  rounded  teaspoonfuls. 

Cayenne  pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Butter. 

Butter  zephyrettes  lightly,  spread  with  cheese  and 
cayenne  well  mixed,  and  heat  on  a  pan  in  a  hot  oven 
till  the  cheese  melts. 

Cheese  Fondue 

Bread  crumbs,  1  cupful.  Eggs,     2  yolks,  3  whites. 

Milk,  Yz  cupful.  Butter,  %  cupful. 

Grated  cheese,  4  tablespoonfuls.  Salt,       ^  teaspoonful. 

Pepper,  a  few  grains. 


TISSUE-BUILDING   FOODS:    MILK   AND   EGGS     101 

(^Butter  a  hakiyig-dish.') 

Cook  bread  crumbs  and  milk  together,  stirring  until 
hot  and  smooth ;  add  butter,  cheese,  salt,  and  pepper, 
cook  one  minute  longer,  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
Beat  yokes  and  whites  separately,  the  whites  till  stiff 
and  dry.  Mix  the  yolks  thoroughly  into  the  cheese 
mixture,  and  fold  in  the  whites.  Bake  in  baking-dish 
in  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  when  firm  to 
the  touch,  the  fondue  is  done.  Serve  at  once  in  the 
same  dish. 

Baked  in  ramekin  dishes,  this  mixture  forms  Cheese 
Ramekins. 

Perhaps  you  would  like  to  write  a  composition  about  milk.  You 
can  learn  more  about  it  in  Food  and  Beverages,  pp.  66-79  and  83- 
87.  Pamphlets  written  for  grown  people,  but  not  hard  to  under- 
stand, are  Facts  about  Milk  and  Butter-making  on  the  Farm,  printed 
as  Farmers'  Bulletins,  Nos.  42  and  57,  by  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Washington,  D.C.     (Sent  free.) 


CHAPTER  I 
BREAD 
Section  1.    Quick  Breads;  Baking-powders 

Cookery  is  become  an  art,  a  noble  science. 

187.  Heretofore  the  dishes  that  you  have  cooked 
have  consisted  of  one  principal  ingredient,  with  small 
quantities  of  others  added  to  make  this  more  palatable. 
In  cooking  you  have  had  to  consider  the  nature  of  but 
one,  or  at  the  most  two,  of  the  foodstuffs  of  which  the 
principal  ingredient  was  composed.  What  foodstuff 
did  you  consider  in  cooking  eggs  ?     In  cooking  cereals  ? 

In  this  chapter  you  are  to  deal  with  mixtures  of 
several  kinds  of  food-material,  and  success  will  depend 
upon  your  understanding  of  the  properties  of  each  of 
the  materials  you  use,  and  upon  your  care  in  measur- 
ing, mixing,  and  baking  them. 

188.  Quick  breads  include  biscuits,  muffins,  griddle 

cakes,  and  the  like.     They  are  so  called  to  distinguish 

them  from  ^east-breads^  which  require  a  longer  time  for 

preparation. 

Recipe  for  Popovers 

Flour,  1  cupful.  Salt,    %  teaspoonful. 

Milk,    1  cupful.  Eggs,  2. 

(^Set  the  2^  op  over  cups  07i  the  stove  to  heat.^ 

102 


PLATE  VII. 


Egg  in  a  Nest,  and  Dropped  Egg  on  Toast  garnished  with 
Parsley, 


Popover 


Muffin 
Quick  Breads. 


Biscuit 


French  Loaves,  Finger  Rolls,  and  French  Rolls,  with 
Baking-pans  for  Each. 


BREAD  103 

Put  the  flour  iu  a  bowl  ;  make  a  well  in  the  centre  of 
it ;  drop  in  the  salt,  then  the  unbeaten  eggs.  Add  the 
milk  gradually,  stirring  in  widening  circles  from  the 
centre.  Bake  in  buttered  muffin-pans,  or  in  earthen 
cups,  in  a  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

189.  To  grease  baking-pans.  ‚Äî  Melt  the  butter  or  other 
fat,  and  with  a  bit  of  soft  paper,  or  a  brush  kept  for  this 
purpose,  apply  it  evenly  to  the  pan,  being  careful  to 
grease  the  corners  carefully. 

190.  The  uncooked  popover  mixture  is  called  batter. 
Popovers  are  made  light  by  the  expansion  of  the  water 

in  them  as  it  is  changed  to  steam  by  the  heat  of  the 
oven,  the  heat  at  the  same  time  forming  a  crust,  which 
keeps  the  steam  from  escaping.  When  done  the  pop- 
overs  should  be  crisp,  hollow  shells,  several  times  the 
height  of  the  batter,  and  well  "popped-over."     (Plate 

VII.) 

Recipe  for  Griddle  Cakes 

Flour,  2  cupfuls.  Salt,  Yz  teaspoonful. 

Baking-soda,  1  teaspoonful.  Sour  milk,  2  cupfuls. 

Eggs,  1. 

(Put  the  griddle  where  it  will  he  hot  hy  the  time  the 
cakes  are  mixed.} 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking-soda  together.  Beat 
the  eggs  well.  Stir  the  milk  into  the  flour.  Add  the 
beaten  egg,  and  beat  all  together  until  well  mixed. 
Bake  by  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  greased  griddle.^     When 

1  Beat  the  batter  well  before  pouring  a  fresh  batch  of  cakes  on  to 
the  griddle. 


104    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

the  cakes  are  full  of  bubbles  on  top,  and  brown  on  one 
side,  turn  them  over  with  a  broad  knife  or  a  cake-turner, 
and  brown  them  on  the  other  side.  If  large  bubbles 
rise  at  once  to  the  top  of  the  cakes,  the  griddle  is  too 
hot.  If  the  top  of  the  cake  stiffens  before  the  under 
side  is  brown,  the  griddle  is  not  hot  enough.  Never 
turn  a  cake  twice  ;  a  twice  turned  cake  will  be  heavy. 

Serve  the  cakes  as  soon  as  they  are  baked,  piled  (not 
more  than  six  or  eight  together)  on  a  hot  plate.  Eat 
them  with  butter,  butter  and  syrup,  or  butter  and  sugar. 

In  making  griddle  cakes  with  sweet  milk,  omit  soda,  and 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter. 

191.  To  grease  the  griddle.  ‚Äî  Use  a  piece  of  beef-suet 
on  a  fork,  or  drippings  applied  with  a  swab  made  by 
tying  a  strip  of  clean  cloth  around  the  end  of  a  fork  or 
skewer.  Leave  no  spot  ungreased,  but  do  not  have 
more  than  just  enough  grease  to  keep  the  cakes  from 
sticking.  If  they  should  stick,  scrape  the  griddle  clean 
before  greasing  it  again.  A  soapstone  griddle  must  never 
he  greased, 

A  Study   of   the  Leavening  Power  of   Baking- 
soda 

192.  What  makes  griddle-cake  batter  light  ? 

Experiments  with  soda  and  acids.  ‚Äî  A.  Put  a  pinch  of  soda  into 
a  little  sour  milk.  Put  another  pinch  into  vinegar.  Observe  the 
results  in  both  cases. 

B.  Arrange  an  apparatus  like  that  shown  in  Fig.  10.  What 
change  takes  place  in  the  lime-water?     What  gas  is  being  formed? 


BREAD 


105 


193.  Baking-soda  is  one  of  a  class  of  substances  called 
carbonates.  When  an  acid  is  added  to  a  carbonate  in 
the  presence  of  water  carbon  di- 
oxide is  formed,  producing  effer- 
vescence. Is  this  a  physical  or  a 
chemical  change  ?  How  do  you 
know  ? 


Fig.  10.  ‚Äî  Apparatus  for 
testing  for  carbon  di- 
oxide. 

Test-tube  (J)  containing'  soda- 
solution  with  a  little  vinegar. 
Glass  tube  connected  with 
t  dips  into  lime-water  con- 
tained in  glass  {g). 


194.  Batter  made  light  by  carbon 
dioxide  produced  by  union  of  an 
acid  with  a  carbonate.  ‚Äî  The  car- 
bon dioxide  formed  in  the  batter 
from  the  union  of  the  baking- 
soda  and  the  acid  in  the  sour 
milk  expands  when  heated,  mak- 
ing the  griddle  cakes  light  and 
porous.  Moreover,  although  made 
with  sour  milk,  the  cakes  are  not 
sour  ;  by  an  experiment  we  can  find  out  if  the  soda  has 
anything  to  do  with  this. 

195.  Experiments  with  acids  and  alkalies.  ‚Äî  A.  Add  a  little  sal- 
soda  solution  to  water  in  which  red  cabbage  has  been  boiled.^ 
What  change  in  color  takes  place  ?  Try  adding  ammonia,  a  drop 
of  soapsuds,  and  baking-powder  solution  to  the  cabbage  water. 
What  effect  do  they  have  ? 

In  general,  substances  that  turn  cabbage  water  green 
are  termed  alkalies.  Baking-soda  is  an  alkaline  car- 
bonate. Taste  it.  Its  slightly  soapy  taste  indicates  its 
similarity  to  the  alkalies  used  in  cleaning. ^ 

1  Or  use  red  and  blue  litmus  paper  for  testing.  Alkalies  turn  red 
litmus  blue  ;  acids  turn  blue  litmus  red. 

2  Chemists  call  washing-soda  sodium  carbonate^  and  baking-soda 
mono-sodium  carbonate. 


106   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

196.  Experiment  B.  ‚Äî  Try  the  effect  of  vinegar  and  of  sour 
milk  upon  cabbage  water. 

Substances  that  turn  cabbage  water  violet  are  (or 
contain)  acids. 

197.  Neutralization.  ‚Äî  Acids  and  alkalies  have  the 
power  of  neutralizing  each  other  (i.e.  of  destroying  each 
other's  characteristic  i)roperties).  If  exactly  the  right 
amounts  of  soda  and  of  sour  milk  are  used,  the  batter 
will  be  neutral  ;  that  is,  it  will  not  turn  cabbage  water 
either  green  or  violet,  and  will  taste  of  neither  acid,  nor 
soda.      (Test  some  of  the  batter  left  in  the  bowl.) 

To  one  pint  of  thick,  recently  soured  milk  use  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-soda.  The  more  acid  the  milk  is,  the 
more  soda  it  requires.  Bitter  or  mouldy  sour  milk  is 
unfit  to  be  used. 

Batters  and  Doughs 

198.  Quick-bread  mixtures  are  either  batters  or 
doughs.  Dough  means  "  that  which  is  moistened "  ; 
batter  means  "that  which  is  beaten." 

One  measure  of  liquid  with  one  to  one  and  a  half 
measures  of  flour  makes  a  thin  or  pour-batter. 

One  measure  of  liquid  to  two  measures  or  a  little 
more  of  flour  makes  a  thick  or  drop-batter. 

A  mixture  stiff  enough  to  be  handled  on  a  board  is  a 
dough. 

One  measure  of  liquid  to  two  and  two-thirds  meas- 
ures of  flour  makes  a  soft  dough. 

One  measure  of  liquid  to  three  or  more  measures  of 
flour  makes  a  stiff  dough. 


BREAD  107 

What  kind  of  a  batter  is  the  popover  mixture? 
What  kind  of  a  mixture  will  the  recipe  for  biscuit 
make  ? 

199.  Ingredients;  means  of  lightening;  shortening. ‚Äî 
A  mixture  of  flour  and  water  or  flour  and  milk  alone 
would  be,  when  cooked,  hard  and  indigestible.  We 
have  found  that  the  introduction  of  carbon  dioxide 
makes  it  light  and  porous,  and  that,  in  a  watery  batter 
cooked  by  intense  heat,  the  steam  produced  puffs  the 
batter  up.  Eggs  are  used  to  stiffen  batters.  Either 
the  eggs,  or  the  batter  after  the  eggs  are  mixed  with  it, 
is  in  most  cases  well  beaten,  in  order  to  fill  the  mixture 
with  air,  which,  expanding,  makes  it  light.  (See  Muffin 
Recipes.)  With  very  glutinous  flour  (¬ß¬ß  205  and  214) 
eggs  are  unnecessary  except  to  make  the  bread  richer. 
Fat  shortens  bread,  i.e.  makes  it  more  tender  by  sepa- 
rating the  starch-grains  of  the  flour.  Butter  gives  a 
fine  flavor ;  beef  fat  is  less  expensive  than  butter  and 
in  many  cases  serves  equally  well  ;  the  peculiar  greasy 
flavor  of  lard  makes  it  less  desirable  than  either  of 
these.  ^ 

Recipe  for  Tea-biscuit 

Flour,  2  cupfuls.  Salt,     %  teaspoonful. 

Baking-powder,  3  teaspoonfuls.  Butter,  1   tablespoonful. 

Milk  (or  milk  and  water),  about  ^  cupful. 

Sift  the  flour,  baking-powder,  and  salt  together. 
Rab  in  the  butter  (which  should  be  cold  and  firm) 
with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  or  cut  it  with  a  knife,  until 

1  When  substituting  lard  or  beef  fat  for  butter,  add  one-eighth  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  for  each  two  tablespoonfuls  of  shortening. 


108   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

the  mixture  looks  like  meal.  Pour  in  the  milk  slowly, 
cutting,  not  stirring,  the  mass  with  the  knife.  As 
soon  as  one  portion  of  the  flour  becomes  slightly 
moistened,  push  it  to  one  side.  When  all  is  moist  turn 
it  on  to  a  floured  board.  Knead  it  for  a  minute  with 
the  hands.  Pat  and  roll  it  lightly  with  a  rolling-pin 
to  a  thickness  of  three-fourths  of  an  inch.  Cut  into 
biscuit  with  a  small  biscuit-cutter  dipped  in  flour. 
Bake  on  a  pan  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

For  richer  biscuits  use  from  two  tablespoonfuls  to 
one-fourth  cupful  of  butter. 

A  Study  of  Baking-powder 

200.  Experiments  with  baking-powder.  ‚Äî  A.  Taste  baking- 
powder.  Test  it  with  cabbage  water  (¬ß  195).  How  would  you 
describe  it? 

B.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  to  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  to  another  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Which  foams  the  most  ?  What  kind 
of  bubbles  do  you  think  these  are? 

C.  Arrange  an  apparatus  like  that  in  Fig.  10.  Use  a  cold- 
water  solution  of  baking-powder  instead  of  vinegar  and  baking- 
soda.  Test  for  carbon  dioxide.  When  the  gas  ceases  to  come  off, 
heat  the  test-tube  gently,  and  observe  the  result. 

Explain  how  biscuit  are  made  light.  Is  heat  necessary  to  make 
all  the  gas  come  off?  What  would  be  the  effect  on  the  biscuit  if 
hot  milk  were  used  in  mixing  the  dough  ? 

D.  Taste  cream  of  tartar.  Test  it  with  cabbage  water,  or  with 
litmus.     What  kind  of  a  substance  is  it? 

E.  Try  to  dissolve  cream  of  tartar  in  cold  water ;  in  hot  water. 
Try  to  dissolve  baking-soda  in  cold  water ;  in  hot  water.  What 
can  you  say  of  the  solubility  of  baking-soda  ? 


BREAD  109 

F.  Mix  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  taste  the  mixture.  Add  water  to  the 
mixture  (or,  make  separate  solutions  of  soda  and  of  cream  of 
tartar,  and  pour  one  into  the  other).  Compare  the  result  with 
what  happened  when  water  was  added  to  baking-powder.  Of  what 
do  you  think  baking-powder  is  composed  ? 

G.  Test  the  mixed  solution  with  cabbage  water.  If  it  is  not 
neutral,  try  to  make  it  so  by  adding  either  soda  or  cream  of  tartar, 
;i  little  at  a  time. 

201.  What  bakings-powder  is;  how  it  makes  mixtures 
light.  ‚Äî  Pure  cream  of  tartar  baking-powder  contains 
one  part  of  baking-soda  to  four  parts  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar.i  In  solution  these  unite,  forming  carbon  dioxide 
and  Rochelle  salts. ^  Cream  of  tartar  being  partly  sol- 
uble only  without  heat,  little  of  the  gas  is  set  free  until 
the  mixture  is  put  into  the  oven.^     It  then  comes  off 

1  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking-soda  are  equal  to  about  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
When  pure  baking-powder  can  be  obtained,  it  is  wiser,  as  well  as  more 
convenient,  to  use  it ;  because  the  housekeeper  cannot  proportion  the 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar  as  accurately  as  does  the  manufacturing 
chemist,  and  any  excess  of  either  is  not  only  wasted,  but  may  be  in- 
jurious to  the  health.  Soda,  since  it  gives  off  some  carbon  dioxide 
when  wet,  even  if  no  acid  is  present,  might  be  used  alone  to  lighten 
bread,  did  it  not  when  so  used  make  the  bread  yellow,  unpalatable,  and 
unwholesome.  Baking-soda  is  made  by  passing  carbon  dioxide  over 
ordinary  sal-soda.  Cream  of  tartar  is  an  acid  salt  prepared  from  the 
crystals  called  "argols"  that  form  on  the  inside  of  wine-vats  and 
wine-casks. 

2  Rochelle  salts  is  a  soluble,  white  powder,  harmless  in  small  quan- 
tities. 

3  Enough  moisture  to  start  this  action  is,  however,  readily  absorbed 
by  the  baking-powder  from  the  air.  A  little  cornstarch  is  therefore 
added  by  the  manufacturer  to  take  up  moisture  and  keep  the  powder 
dry.  A  solution  of  baking-powder  may  be  tested  for  a  starch  (a)  by 
boiling  and  (6)  with  iodine. 


110   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

rapidly,  filling  the  batter  or  dough  with  bubbles,  and 
making  it  rise  higher  and  higher.  As  the  gas  expands, 
the  walls  of  the  bubbles  stretch  and  become  thin.  Just 
at  this  stage,  if  the  oven  is  right,  the  heat  sets  the  mix- 
ture and  imprisons  the  gas.  In  too  hot  an  oven  a  crust 
forms  before  all  the  gas  is  set  free  ;  in  too  cool  an  oven 
the  bubbles  break  and  the  gas  escapes.  In  either  case 
the  result  is  heav}^  bread. 

Use  one  to  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-pow- 
der to  one  cupful  of  flour.  If  more  than  this  is  required, 
the  baking-powder  is  of  poor  quality.  The  more  air 
there  is  beaten  into  the  mixture,  the  smaller  will  be  the 
quantity  of  baking-powder  required.  Bread  or  cake 
made  with  "  generous  "  measures  of  baking-powder  is 
dry,  and  owing  to  the  excess  of  Rochelle  salts  produced, 
unwholesome. 


Helpful  Hints  about  mixing  and  baking  Quick 
Breads 

202.  1.  As  a  rule  sift  the  baking-powder  with  the 
flour  ;  in  a  very  thin  batter  it  may  be  sprinkled  in  after 
the  other  ingredients  have  been  mixed,  provided  the 
whole  mixture  is  then  well  beaten. 

2.  A  quick  bread  should  be  quickly  mixed,  and  put 
into  the  oven  without  delay.  This  is  most  important  in 
the  case  of  thin  batters,  those  raised  wholly  with  air, 
and  those  raised  by  using  soda  and  sour  milk,  or  any 
other  liquid  acid,  which  sets  free  at  once  almost  all  the 
available  gas. 


BREAD  111 

3.  The  proper  degree  of  heat  for  baking  must  be 
learned  by  experience.  In  general,  doughs  require  a 
hotter  oven  than  batters  do.  Too  great  heat  causes 
bubbles  of  air  or  gas  to  burst  and  run  together,  which 
is  undesirable  when  a  fine-grained  bread  is  desired. 
Popovers,  when  baked,  should  be  hollow  shells.  Bake 
these,  therefore,  in  a  hot  oven. 

4.  Set  the  pan  at  first  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  ; 
after  the  bread  has  risen  it  may  be  placed  on  the  rack 
to  brown  the  top. 

5.  Open  and  close  the  oven  door  gently  ‚Äî  "  as  if  there 
were  a  baby  inside,"  ‚Äî  and  avoid  moving  the  pan  while 
the  bread  is  rising.  A  draft  of  cold  air  will  cause  the 
bubbles  to  collapse  ;  a  sudden  jar  will  break  them.  In 
either  case  the  bread  will  fall. 

Recipes  ^ 

Plain  Muffins 

Flour,  2  cupfuls.  Salt,      yi  teaspoonful. 

Baking-powder,  3  teaspoonfuls.      Butter,  1  tablespoonful. 
Milk,  about  3^  of  a  cupful. 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking-powder,  and  salt.  Stir 
in  enough  milk  to  make  a  drop-batter,  beat  well,  and 
add  the  butter  melted.     Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

Egg  Muffins 

Flour,  lyi  cupfuls.  Milk,  1  cupful. 

Baking-powder,  2      teaspoonfuls.     Eggs,  1. 

Salt,  Yi     teaspoonful.       Melted  butter,  1  tablespoonful. 


112   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Separate  the  egg; 
beat  the  yolk  slightly,  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir 
the  milk,  beaten  yolk,  and  melted  butter,  in  the  order 
named,  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Last,  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites.  Bake  in  muffin-pans  twenty-five  min- 
utes. 

Whole-wheat  Muffins 

Flour,  1}4  cupfuls.  Salt,     }4  teaspoonful. 

Baking-powder,  2      teaspoonfuls.      Butter,  1  tablespoon ful. 
Sugar,  1      tablespoonful.    Milk,     ^  cupful. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  the  melted 
butter  and  milk,  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  greased  muffin- 
pans  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

CoRNMEAL  Muffins. 

Cornmeal,  1  cupful.  Salt,      i^  teaspoonful. 

Flour,  1  cupful.  Milk,     1    cupful. 

Baking-powder,  2  teaspoonfuls.  Butter,  1   tablespoonful. 
Eggs,  1. 

Scald  half  of  the  milk.  Separate  the  egg,  and  beat 
the  white  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  the  cornmeal  in  a  bowl, 
make  a  well  in  the  centre,  into  the  well  put  the  salt 
and  butter.  Stir  in  the  scalded  milk.^  Add  the  yolk 
unbeaten,  the  cold  milk,  and  the  flour  and  baking- 
powder  sifted  together.  Beat  well,  and  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

203.  Digestion  of  quick  breads.  ‚Äî  Quick  breads  are 
most  delicious  when  fresh.     No  bread,  however,  should 

1  Cornmeal  is  scalded  to  soften  its  starch,  the  time  in  the  oven  being 
too  short  to  cook  this. 


BREAD  113 

be  eaten  steaming  hot,  because  in  this  state  the  inside 
part,  or  crumb,  forms  in  the  mouth  a  pasty  mass  not 
easily  digestible.  The  crust  contains  dextrin  and 
caramel,  and  is  therefore  more  wholesome  than  the 
crumb.  Little  children  and  persons  with  delicate 
digestive  powers  should  never  eat  the  crumb  of  warm 
bread ;  those  who  do  eat  it  should  chew  it  slowly  and 
thoroughly. 

Try  at  home  the  experiments  with  acids  and  alkalies;  test  as 
many  different  substances  as  you  can  with  litmus  or  cabbage  water, 
and  write  them  down,  acids  in  one  column,  alkalies  in  another. 

From  the  following  books  and  articles  you  can  learn  how  people 
make  bread  without  baking-powder  or  yeast.  Woman's  Share  in 
Primitive  Culture,  Chapter  II ;  "  Bread  in  the  East,"  Penny  Magazine, 
Vol.  Ill,  p.  2;  "Tortillas,"  American  Kitchen  Magazine,  Vol.  VII, 
p.  3.  The  Domestic  Science  Reader  has  articles  about  crackers,  hot 
cross  buns,  Mexican  bread,  and  Zufii  Indian  bread,  pp.  78-83. 

Section  2.    Flour 

A  Study  of  Wheat.     Part  II  (^continued  from 
p.  82) 

204.  Analysis  of  wheat-flour.  ‚Äî  A.  Make  half  a  cup  of  flour 
into  a  very  stiff  dough  with  a  little  water.  Knead  this  several 
minutes  on  a  very  fine  strainer  set  in  a  bowl  of  water.  Examine 
what  is  left  in  the  strainer.  How  does  it  look  ?  Feel  ?  Spread 
some  of  it  on  a  saucer  to  dry  and  examine  it  again.  Heat  some 
in  the  oven,  notice  how  it  swells.     (Plate  VIII,  facing  p.  122.) 

B.    Test  the  sediment  in  the  water  for  starch  in  two  ways. 

205.  Gluten.  ‚Äî  Wheat-flour,  when  kneaded  with 
water,  yields  a   yellowish  gray  substance   that   when 


114   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


moist   is   elastic    and    sticky   like    glue,  and    for  this 

reason  is  called  gluten.      When  dry  it  is  horny  and 

translucent.      If  moistened  and  heated,  it  expands  to 
many  times  its  original  bulk. 

206.  Flour  or  gluten  may  be  tested  for  nitrogenous  sub- 
stances by  mixing  with  it  a  few  drops  of  nitric  acid.  How 
will  the  nitrogen  show  itself  ? 

Strictly  speaking,  gluten  does  not  exist  in  wheat  or  in  dry 
wheat-flour.  What  we  do  find  is  a  mixture  of  gliadin  and 
glutenin,  which,  when  kneaded  with  water,  unite  chemically 
to  form  gluten  ;  but  since  they  are  always  found  together, 
we  may  consider  them  together  as  gluten. 

207.  Composition  of  wheat.  ‚Äî  Wheat  owes  its  value  as 
a  tissue-builder  to  its  gluten,  which  contains    nitrogen. 

The  body  of 
the  wheat 
grain  is  com- 
posed of  starch 
and  gluten ; 
the  germ  con- 
tains fat  and 
tissue-building 
materials.  Just 
beneath  the 
bran  coats  are 

mineral      salts. 

Fig.  11.  ‚Äî Cross-section  of  a  wheat-grain, 

enlarged.  valuable      as 

a  and  c  =  bran-coats  ;  d  =  layer  of  alenrone  cells ;  e  =  cells        boilC  and  UCrve 
containing  starch  and  gluten.  buildcrS  ;       the 

cell-walls  consist  of  plant-fibre.     Wheat  also  contains 


BREAD 


115 


208-  ‚Äî  Microscopical  examination  of  a  wheat  grain.  ‚Äî  A.  Pre- 
liminary.‚Äî  Cut  a  wheat  grain  in  two  and  draw  the  outline  of  its 
cut  surface. 

B.  Examine  a  mounted  cross-section  of  a  wheat  grain.  Ob- 
serve that  it  is  the  same  shape  as  the  cut  surface  of  the  grain 
you  sliced  in  two.  Look  first  at  the  mass  of  cells  forming  the 
body  of  the  grain.  These  collectively  are  called  the  endosperm. 
They  are  full  of  starch  and  gluten.  Are  they  larger  or  smaller 
than  the  starch  cells  in  a  potato?  If  the  cross-section  is  taken 
from  the  near  base  of  the 

grain,  you  may  be  able  to 
find  the  germ  or  embryo,  a 
little  dark  body  near  its 
centre.  If  so,  notice  how 
the  cells  of  the  endosperm 
seem  to  radiate  from  it. 
What  is  the  use  of  the  en- 
dosperm to  the  embryo? 
(¬ß¬ß  146,  147.)  Around  the 
outside  of  the  grain  you 
will  see  a  layer,  in  some 
places  a  double  layer,  of 
large,  square  cells.  These 
contain  tissue-building  ma- 
terial (aleurone).^  This 
layer  is  generally  removed  ^ 
in  milling.  Outside  of  it 
are  three  coats  of  bran. 

C.  Make  a  sketch  from  memory  of  the  cross-section  of  the 
wheat  grain. 

1  These  were  formerly  supposed  to  contain  most  of  the  gluten  of 
the  grain,  hence  they  are  incorrectly  termed  "gluten  cells"  in  many 
books. 


Fig.  12.  ‚Äî  Portion  of  a  cross-section  of 
a  wheat  grain  greatly  enlarged. 

b,  and  c  =  bran-coats  ;  (Z  =  layer  of  aleurone 
cells;  e  and  /  =  cells  containing-  starch  and 
gluten. 


116        THEORY  AND    PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

The  Manufacture  of  Flour 

209.  Cleaning.  ‚Äî  If  you  ever  visit  a  flour-mill  you 
will  first  be  shown  the  wheat  as  it  is  shovelled  from 
cars  into  bins,  mixed  with  other  seeds,  and  with  dirt, 
sticks,  and  nails.  It  is  freed  from  these  by  being  run 
through  wire  screens,  scoured  clean  by  revolving  steel 
blades,  and  steamed  slightly  to  soften  its  hard  coats, 
before  going  to  the  rollers. 

210.  Rolling.  ‚Äî -  Each  pair  of  rollers  turns  in  the  same 
direction,  but  one  moves  two  or  three  times  as  fast  as 
the  other  ;  both  are  grooved,  so  that  they  cut  or  break 
rather  than  crush  the  grain.  Each  passage  between 
a  pair  of  rollers  is  accordingly  called  a  break.  From 
the  first  break  the  wheat  comes  out  warm  from  the 
friction  of  the  roller  and  looking  and  feeling  something 
like  coarse,  damp  sawdust.  Next  it  passes  to  a  machine 
called  a  scalper^  where  it  is  shaken  on  a  wire  tray  to 
separate  the  bran  as  far  as  possible  from  the  middlings, 
or  bits  of  the  white  middle  part  of  the  grain  ‚Äî  the 
part  to  be  made  into  flour.  Then  back  go  the  branny 
parts  to  be  ground  over  by  a  second  set  of  grooved 
rollers,  and  again  "  scalped  "  ;  while  the  middlings  are 
crushed  between  smooth  rollers,  sifted,  mixed  with  more 
middlings  from  the  second  break  of  the  wheat,  and 
ground  over  and  over  till  reduced  to  flour. ^ 

211.  Bolting. ‚Äî After  five  breaks  no  more  middlings 
are  left  in  the  bran,  but  a  little  fine  bran  called  shorts 

1  Part  of  the  fine  middlings  may  be  taken  out  to  sell  as  farina. 


BREAD  117 

is  still  left  to  be  taken  out  of  the  middlings.  This  is 
done  by  sifting,  or  bolting  through  silk  gauze  stretched 
over  cylindrical  frames  called  reels.  The  middlings 
are  further  purified  by  air-blasts  that  blow  away  flour- 
dust  and  light  chaff. 

Having  explained  the  milling  process,  the  miller 
may  show  you  a  quantity  of  yellow  disks  the  size  of  a 
pin  head.  These  are  germs  flattened  by  the  smooth 
rollers,  and  sifted  out.  If  this  were  not  done  the 
diastase  in  them  (¬ß  147)  which  prepares  the  starch  for 
digestion  by  the  seedling  would  spoil  the  flour  by  work- 
ing in  it  the  same  change  that  it  does  in  the  seed. 

212.  Packing.  ‚Äî  Lastly,  you  may  see  the  finished  flour 
packed  by  a  machine  that  forces  just  one  hundred  and 
ninety-six  pounds  into  each  barrel,  to  be  sold,  some  of  it, 
perhaps,  to  the  farmers  who  raised  the  wheat  it  is  made 
from,  some  to  city  people  who  never  saw  a  wheat-field. 

213.  The  best  flour  the  most  economical.  ‚Äî  Most  mills 
make  several  grades  of  flour.  High  grade  patent  flour 
is  the  whitest  and  the  highest  in  price,  although  in 
some  cases  the  next  grade,  called  baker's,  may  be 
fully  as  nutritious.  Lower  grade  flours  are  not  desir- 
able, but  so  long  as  people  buy  them  millers  will  sell 
them.  There  is  no  waste  in  a  flour-mill  ;  screenings 
and  bran  are  sold  for  cattle  and  horse  feed,  germ  is 
made  into  a  breakfast  food,  and,  because  people  want 
cheap  flour,  a  mixture  of  flour-dust,  shorts,  and  other 
by-products  is  put  up  to  satisfy  the  demands  of  their 
purses,  if  not  of  their  bodies. 


118   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Do  not  buy  cheap  flour,  thinking  you  are  saving 
money  ;  you  are  only  helping  the  manufacturer  to  save. 

214.  Flour  made  from  the  whole  grain.  ‚Äî  Graham  flour 
was  formerly  made  by  grinding  the  Avhole  grain,  with- 
out bolting  it;  what  is  now  sold  as  "graham"  is  usually 
low-grade  flour  mixed  with  coarse  bran,  indigestible 
and  irritating  to  the  stomach  and  intestines.  Entire  or 
whole-wheat  flour  is  produced  by  grinding  together  all 
parts  of  tlie  kernel  except  the  bran  and  the  germ. 

215.  Good  bread  flour,  and  how  to  tell  it.  ‚Äî  Glutinous 
flour,  besides  being  more  nutritious  than  starchy  flour, 
makes  the  elastic  dough  necessary  for  producing  light 
yeast  bread.  Hard  spring  wheat,  being  rich  in  gluten, 
yields  such  flour.  You  may  know  it  (1)  hy  its  creamy 
ivhite  color,  (2)  hy  its  gritty  feeling,  (3)  by  its  capacity 
for  absorbing  ivater,  nearly  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  flour  being  taken  up  by  one  quart  of  good  flour  in 
making  dough  stiff  enough  for  yeast  bread,  and  (4)  by 
its  caking  but  slightly  when  squeezed  in  the  hand.^ 

Where  to  find  more  about  flour  and  flour-mills.  ‚Äî  In  Foods  and 
^eyero^es,  pp.  30-36;  Food  Products  of  the  l^oWaf,  pp.  149-155;  and 
in  "  Flour-milling  in  the  Northwest,"  The  Nation,  Vol.  LIV,  p.  424. 

Section  3.    Macaroni  and  Other  Flour  Pastes 

216.  Macaroni,  spaghetti,  vermicelli,  and  other  Italian 
pastes  made  from  the  glutinous  flour  of  hard  wheat,  are 
to  Italians  what  our  various  kinds  of  bread  are  to  us. 
To  make  them,  a  stiff  mixture  of  flour  and  hot  water  is 

1  For  cake  and  pastry,  flour  made  from  winter  wheat  is  desirable. 
Unfortunately,  poor  bread  flour  is  often  sold  under  the  name  of  pastry 
flour. 


BREAD  119 

placed  in  an  iron  cylinder,  the  end  of  which  is  closed  by 
a  disk  pierced  with  holes.  A  piston  forces  the  paste 
out  through  these  in  threads,  rods,  or  tubes,  according 
to  the  shape  of  the  openings.  When  dry,  the  threads 
form  vermicelli  (Italian  for  little  ivorms)^  ‚Äî  the  rods, 
spaghetti  (Italian  for  a  cord),  and  the  tubes,  macaroni 
(Italian  for  crushed).  Italian  macaroni  is  dried  by 
hanging  over  wooden  rods  in  the  open  air  or  in  ovens ; 
American  macaroni  is  laid  on  flat  frames. 

217.  Excellent   macaroni  is   made  in   this   country  by 

cleanlier  methods  than  those  used  abroad,  but  because  of 
a  common,  though  mistaken,  belief  that  Italian  wheat 
is  superior  to  ours,  people  will  not  buy  it,  except  with 
Italian  or  French  labels.  Why  not  show  sense  and 
patriotism  by  preferring  a  domestic  article,  if  it  is  as 
good  or  better  than  an  imported  one,  and,  by  so  doing, 
make  it  unnecessary  for  manufacturers  to  use  deceptive 
labels  ? 

218.  How  to  know  good  macaroni. ‚Äî Good  macaroni  is 
yellowish  in  color  and  rough  in  texture  ;  it  breaks 
cleanly  without  splitting,  in  boiling  swells  to  double  its 
bulk,  and  neither  becomes  pasty  nor  loses  its  tubular 
shape.  Imitations  made  of  starchy  flour  colored,  are 
made  both  here  and  abroad. 

219.  Macaroni  contains  so  much  gluten  that  it  is  almost 
equal  to  meat  as  a  food,  especially  if  cooked  with  cheese. 

220.  Spaghetti  may  be  prepared  in  any  way  suitable 
for  macaroni,  but  is  usually  served  with  Tomato  Sauce. 


120   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Vermicelli  is  used  only  in  soups.  Noodles,  to  serve  in 
soup,  are  made  in  various  shapes  from  a  paste  of  flour, 
water,  and  eggs. 

Recipes 

221.  To  grate  cheese.  ‚Äî Use  Parmesan,  or  any  cheese 
stale  enough  to  be  dry.  Grate  on  a  coarse  grater,  and 
do  not  pack  the  grated  cheese  in  measuring  it. 

222.  To  prepare  buttered  crumbs  for  scalloped  dishes.  ‚Äî 
Mix  dried  crumbs  (¬ß  234)  with  melted  butter,  using  one- 
fourth  of  a  cupful  of  butter  to  one  cupful  of  crumbs. 

Tomato  Sauce  (for  Spaghetti,  Macaroni,  or  Boiled  Rice) 

Tomato  (canned  or  steamed),  1  cupful. 
Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Flour,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Onion  (chopped),  1  teaspoonful. 

Salt,  %.  teaspoonful. 

Pepper,  yi  teaspoonful. 

Cook  the  onion  with  the  tomato  fifteen  minutes. 
Mix  butter  and  flour  together.  Strain  the  tomato  and 
add  it  to  the  butter  and  flour.  Cook  all  together  for 
ten  minutes,  or  until  smooth,  then  add  salt  and  pepper. 

Spaghetti  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Spaghetti,         K  of  a  box.        Salt,  1  tablespoonful. 

Boiling  water,  2  quarts.  Tomato  sauce,  Xy^  cupfuls. 

Hold  the  sticks  of  spaghetti  in  a  bunch,  and  dip  the 
ends  into  the  boiling  salted  water.  As  they  soften  and 
bend,  lower  them  into  the  water,  letting  them  coil 
around  in  the  saucepan.     The  spaghetti  may  thus  be 


BREAD  121 

cooked  without  breaking.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
or  until  soft,  drain,  rinse  with  cold  water  (to  remove 
starch  that  might  make  it  sticky),  and  mix  with  the 
tomato  sauce. 

Recipe  for  Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese 

Macaroni  broken  in  one-inch  pieces,  ^  cupful. 
Boiling  water,  2  quarts. 

Salt,  1  tablespoonful. 

Grated  cheese,  >(  to  ^  cupful. 

White  sauce  (made  from  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

l^^  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  cupful  of  milk,  and  yi 

teaspoonful  of  salt). 
Buttered  crumbs,  ^  cupful. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  the  water  for  twenty  minutes, 
or  until  soft,  adding  salt  when  nearly  cooked.  Drain 
in  a  strainer,  and  rinse  with  cold  water. 

Put  a  layer  of  macaroni  in  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  cheese  ;  repeat  until  all  the  cheese  and 
macaroni  have  been  used  ;  pour  the  white  sauce  over 
the  top.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until 
these  are  brown. 

Section  4.    Yeast  Bread;  Yeast 

Remember  thy  bread  and  bake  it  well,  for  he  will  not  be  kept  well 
who  eateth  his  bread  as  dough. 

223.  The  perfect  loaf  of  bread  is  regular  in  shape, 
has  a  crisp  crust,  evenly  browned,  and  a  tender,  but 
rather  firm  crumb  of  even  grain.  It  tastes  sweet  and 
nutty,  smells  fresh,  and  keeps  good  for  several  days. 
How  may  we  make  such  a  loaf  ?     The  ingredients  are 


122   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

few,  the  process  is  simple,  and  with  care,  skill  is  not 
hard  to  acquire. 

Recipes  (Plate  VII,  facing  p.  102) 

White  Bread 

Flour,  From  3  to  3}4  cupfuls. 

Cold  water,  J4  cupful. 

Milk,  }4  cupful. 

Lukewarm  ^  water,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Compressed  yeast,  }4  cake. 

Salt,  }4  teaspoonfiil. 

Mixing.  ‚Äî Scald  the  milk  ;  sift  and  measure  the  flour 
(three  and  one-half  cupfuls)  ;  put  the  salt  in  a  bowl 
and  pour  the  milk  upon  it.  Add  the  cold  water,  then 
the  yeast  mixed  smoothly  with  the  lukewarm  water. 
Having  stirred  all  together,  stir  in  enough  flour  (about 
two  and  three-fourths  cupfuls)  to  make  a  drop-batter. 
Beat  this  batter  until  it  is  full  of  bubbles  ;  then  beat  in 
gradually  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  rather  soft 
dough.  When  too  stiff  to  beat,  rub  a  little  flour  on 
the  moulding-board,  and  turn  the  dough  out. 

Kneading.  ‚Äî  Dust  a  little  flour  on  the  dough  and  on 
the  palms  of  your  hands.  Fold  the  edge  of  the  dough 
farthest  from  you  toward  the  centre  of  the  mass,  imme- 
diately pressing  the  dough  down  and  away  from  you 
with  a  gentle  rolling  motion  of  the  palms  of  the  hands, 
twice  repeated.  Turn  the  dough  so  that  what  was  the 
right-hand  part  of  it  shall  be  farthest  away  from  you ; 
fold  over  and  knead  as  before  ;  continue  to  do  this, 
turning  the  dough  and  flouring  your  hands,  the  board, 
1  Of  the  same  temperature  as  your  hand,  98¬∞  F. 


BREAD  123 

and  the  dough,  to  keep  the  latter  from  sticking. 
Should  it  stick  to  the  board  scrape  it  free  with  a  dull 
knife,  and  flour  the  board  anew.  Knead  the  dough 
until  it  does  not  stick  to  your  hands  or  the  board,  is 
smooth  on  the  surface,  feels  spongy  and  elastic,  and 
rises  quickly  after  being  indented. 

First  rising.  ‚Äî  Replace  the  dough-ball  in  the  bowl, 
brush  the  top  with  water,  cover  the  bowl  with  several 
thicknesses  of  cloth,  and  set  it  near  the  stove  or  in  a 
pan  of  warm  water,  turning  another  pan  over  it. 

Second  rising.  ‚Äî  When  the  dough  has  risen  to  twice 
its  original  bulk,  lift  it  on  to  the  board  and  shape  into 
small  loaves,  handling  lightly  and  using  little  or  no 
flour.  Put  into  pans,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place 
covered  with  a  thick,  clean  cloth,  until  it  has  again 
doubled  in  bulk. 

Baking.  ‚Äî  When  nearly  risen,  test  the  oven  ;  it  should 
be  hot  enough  to  turn  a  piece  of  writing  paper  dark 
brown  in  six  minutes.  Bake  small  French  loaves 
thirty-five  minutes ;  brick  loaves,  four  inches  thick, 
fifty  to  sixty  minutes.  Turn  the  pans  if  the  bread 
does  not  bake  evenly. 

Plain  Bread  Rolls,  Finger  Rolls,  and  Bread  Sticks 

Shape  these  from  white  bread-dough  after  its  first 
rising.  For  bread  rolls,  cut  or  pull  off  pieces  the  size 
of  an  egg ;  draw  up  and  pinch  the  edges  together, 
forming  balls  ;  then  with  your  hand  roll  each  into  a 
cylindrical  shape  on  the  board.  Put  into  French  roll- 
pans,  let  rise  until  more  than  doubled  in  bulk,  and  bake 


124   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.      Or,  put  the  balls  on  a 

flat  pan,  and  when  they  have  risen  cut  a  cleft  nearly  an 

inch  deep  across  the  top  of  each  one.     Bake  twelve  to 

fifteen  minutes.     For  finger  rolls,  roll  pieces  of  dough 

half  the  size  of  an  egg  into  cylinders  five  inches  long. 

For  bread  sticks,  roll  out  sticks  of  dough  about  half  an 

inch  thick  and  from  six  to  ten  inches  long.     Bake  these 

and  finger  rolls  ten  minutes.     The  oven  may  be  a  little 

hotter  for  rolls  than  for  loaves.      (Plate  VII,  facing 

p.  102.) 

Whole-wheat  Bread 

Flour,  About  3  cupfuls. 

Lukewarm  water,  1^  cupfuls. 

Compressed  j^east,  >^  cake. 

Salt,  j4  teaspoonful. 

Mix  the  yeast  smoothly  with  one-fourth  of  a  cupful 
of  the  lukewarm  water ;  dissolve  the  salt  in  the  rest  of 
the  water  in  a  bowl ;  stir  the  yeast  into  this  ;  and  then 
stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  drop-batter.  Beat  until 
the  batter  is  full  of  bubbles  (not  less  than  five  minutes), 
cover  the  bowl,  and  let  the  batter,  or  spoyige}  rise  until 
doubled  in  bulk.  (See  recipe  for  White  Bread.)  Beat 
in  the  rest  of  the  flour,  and  knead  for  five  minutes. ^ 

1  Sponge  is  yeast-batter  ;  allowing  it  to  rise  before  adding  more 
flour  is  called  "sponging"  or  "setting  a  sponge."  Sponging  makes 
bread  finer-grained,  but  lengthens  the  time  required  to  make  bread 
with  white  flour,  which  needs  two  risings  after  the  sponge  has  risen. 
Whole-wheat  bread  may  be  made  without  setting  a  sponge,  but  should 
then  rise  twice  after  being  kneaded. 

2  Whole-wheat  dough,  if  made  stiff  enough  for  thorough  kneading, 
is  close  and  hard  when  baked.  Beat  it  well,  knead  slightly,  and 
mould  while  still  somewhat  sticky. 


BREAD  125 

(For  directions  for  kneading,  see  recipe  for  White 
Bread.)  Mould  into  loaves,  let  rise  in  pans  until  again 
doubled  in  bulk,  and  bake  like  white  bread.  Whole- 
wheat rolls  may  be  made  like  white-flour  rolls. 

Either  white  or  whole-wheat  bread  may  be  mixed 
with  water,  milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  water,  as 
may  be  preferred.  Water  bread  is  sweeter,  tougher, 
and  keeps  longer  than  "half-and-half"  or  all-milk 
bread.  Bread  properly  made  from  good  materials 
requires  neither  shortening  nor  sweetening,  but  keeps 
moist  longer  if  one  tablespoonful  of  shortening  (butter, 
lard,  or  drippings)  is  added  for  each  cupful  of  liquid. 

224.  These  two  kinds  of  bread  contain  neither  soda 
nor  baking-powder.  What  do  they  contain  that  is  not 
used  in  quick  breads  ?  Does  yeast  make  bread  light  ? 
and  if  so,  how  ?     The  first  thing  to  find  out  is  :  ‚Äî 

225.  What  yeast  is.  ‚Äî  Yeast  is  a  mass  of  tiny  plants, 
each  a  single,  rounded  cell  consisting  of  a  sac  filled  with 
watery  matter.  Under  a  microscope  new  cells  may  be 
seen  budding  out  of  old  ones,  forming  branching  chains. 
Each  cell,  however,  lives  and  grows  independently. 
Sometimes,  usually  in  old  yeast,  daughter-cells  form  as 
spores  inside  a  mother-cell,  and  burst  through  the 
enclosing  sac.  The  home  of  yeast  is  on  the  skin  of 
grapes  and  on  parts  of  some  other  plants. 

A  Study  of  Yeast 

226.  Microscopical  examination.  ‚Äî  Examine  under  a  micro- 
scope a  drop  of   yeast  grown   in  Exp.  A  (preferably  in  molasses 


Is 


126   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

and  water).  Note  (¬´)  the  shape  of  the  cells,  (6)  their  walls, 
(c)  granular  appearance  of  cells,  if  existing.  This  is  more  notice- 
able in  old  cells.  Try  to  find  a  cell  just  budding.  Make  one  or 
more  memory  drawings  of  what  you  see. 

227.  The  growth  of  yeast ;  experiments.  ‚Äî  A.  Mix  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  of  sugar,i  and  three-fourths  of  a  yeast- 
cuke  to  a  smooth  paste  with  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water.     Divide  the  mixture  between  three  six-inch  test-tubes  (or 

three  tumblers).     Label    the   test- 

r-\    tubes    a,    b,    and    c    respectively. 

Fill  a  with  boiling  water;  half  fill 

b  with  lukewarm  water,  and  stand 

it  in  lukewarm  water  or  in  a  warm 

place ;  half  fill  c  with  cold  water  and 

keep  it  at  a  temperature  of  32¬∞  F. 

or  below  (by  placing  it  in  a  bowl 

of  cracked  ice,  or  outside  the  win- 

^^^.^  dow  on  a  freezing  day).  In  a  fourth 

^^^  test-tube,  d,   put    one-fourth    of   a 

Fic.  ^^^.  ‚ÄîYeast-cells.  yeast-cake  mixed  with  water  only; 

treat  it  like  b.^ 

After  fifteen  minutes  examine  all  four  test-tubes.    What  do  you 

see  on  the  top  of  the  liquid  in  b  ?     What  goes  on  in  the  liquid  ? 

Let  a  and  c  stand  for  a  time  where  they  will  be  about  as  warm  as 

/; ;  what  change  do  you  notice  in  either  of  them  ?      Is  there  any 

foam  on  cH     The  quantity  of  foam  produced  is  a  measure  of  the 

vigor  of  the  yeast.     At  what  temperature  does  yeast  thrive  best  ? 

Will    it  grow  at    all  at  32¬∞?      After  being  frozen  and  thawed? 

After  being  heated  to  212¬∞?     Will  it  grow  in  water  alone? 

B.  (To  be  done  during  the  i^rogress  of  Exp.  A.)  Prepare  in  a 
generating  flask  a  mixture  like  the  first  used  in   Exp.  A,  using 

1  Adding  sugar  hastens  the  growth  of  the  yeast ;  for  bread-making 
the  sugar  in  the  flour  is  sufficient. 

2  A  mixture  of  molasses  and  water  may  be  used  instead  of  a  flour 
mixture  in  this  series  of  experiments. 


BREAD 


127 


three  or  four  times  the  quantity.     Arrange  an  apparatus  like  that 

shown  in  Fig.  14.     Or  use  test-tube  h  instead  of  a  flask,  standing 

it  in  a  tumbler  of  warm  water.     What  gas  comes  from  the  yeast 

mixture  ?  In  what  other  ways  may 

this    gas    be    produced  ?     What 

effect  has  it  when  introduced  into 

batter  or  dough?    As  it  is  heavier 

than  air,  this  gas  may,  with  care, 

be  poured  into  a  tumbler  from  the 

bowl  in  which  bread  is  rising,  and 

tested  by  pouring  lime-water  into    ^ 

the  tumbler. 


Fig.  14.  ‚Äî  Apparatus  for  proving 
that  growing  yeast  produces 
carbon  dioxide. 


flask  containing  yeast  mixture, 
vessel  of  warm  water, 
bealver  containing'  lime-water. 
glass  tube. 


228.  Story  of  the  yeast 
plant ;  what  it  needs  in  order 
to  grow.  ‚Äî  Like  mushrooms 
and  other  fungi  (singular 
fungus)  which  have  no 
green  coloring-matter  (^chlo- 
rophyll)^ yeast  needs  no  light  ;  and  like  these,  it  grows 
and  multiplies  fast.  It  is  like  green  plants  in  tliat  it 
grows  only  when  kept  warm  and  moist.  It  thrives 
best  at  78¬∞  F.  It  may  be  forced  to  grow  and  bud 
unnaturally  fast  by  a  higher  temperature,  just  as  hot- 
house plants  are  ;  but  at  about  130¬∞  F.  it  loses  its  live- 
liness, and  by  heat  greater  than  this  it  is  killed.  Cold 
checks  its  growth,  but  even  after  being  frozen  it  will, 
if  thawed,  revive  and  grow  as  well  as  fever.  It  needs 
water,  and  either  some  nitrogenous  foodstuff,  such  as 
gluten,  or  some  mineral  matter  containing  nitrogen  to 
feed  upon.  Dried  yeast-cells  floating  in  the  air  revive 
if  they  fall  where  conditions  are  right  for  their  develop- 


128   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

ment,   and  grow  just  as  seeds  do   that  fall    on   good 
ground. 

229.  How  yeast  obtains  oxygen.  ‚Äî  A  name  meaning 
sugar-fungus  has  been  given  to  yeast,  because,  while 
most  vigorous  when  well  supplied  with  air,  it  will 
always,  when  sugar  is  at  hand,  take  from  this  a  part  of 
the  oxygen  it  needs.  To  get  oxygen  out  of  sugar,  the 
yeast-cell  digests  the  latter  by  means  of  a  fluid  it 
secretes.  It  is  not  known  whether  this  fluid  acts  inside 
or  outside  of  the  yeast-cell,  but  it  is  known  that  it 
splits  the  sugar  into  simpler  compounds,  the  most  im- 
portant of  these  being  alcohol  and  carbon  dioxide. 

230.  Fermentation ;  ferments.  ‚Äî  A  chemical  change  of 
this  kind,  where  one  organic  substance  is  decomposed 
by  another,  is  called  fermentation,  and  the  substance 
causing  the  change  is  called  a  ferment.  The  action  of 
yeast  in  bread-raising  is  an  alcoholic  fermentation  of 
sugar. 

231.  The  digestion  of  starch,  both  in  animals  and  in 
plants,  the  digestion  of  proteids,  the  souring  of  milk,  and 
the  clotting  of  milk  by  rennet  are  other  kinds  of  fermenta- 
tion. What  is  the  ferment  in  each  of  these  cases  ?  What 
are  some  of  the  substances  produced?  (¬ß¬ß  129,  174,  175, 
176,  325.) 

232.  Cultivated  yeasts.  ‚Äî  Liquid  yeast  is  yeast  culti- 
vated in  a  mixture  of  potatoes,  sugar,  water,  and  hops. 
No  home-made  or  baker's  yeast  can  be  as  uniformly 
good  as  the  pure  yeast  cultivated  by  brewers  and  dis- 
tillers.    Distiller's  yeast,  skimmed  from  fermented  rye, 


BREAD  129 

washed,  mixed  with  starch  and  pressed,  is  most  com- 
monly used  for  making  bread.  Each  cake  contains 
about  fifty  billion  yeast-cells. 

233.  The  yeast-garden.  ‚Äî  Dough,  after  yeast  is  mixed 
with  it,  becomes  a  yeast-garden,  which  we  must  tend 
carefully  in  order  to  have  a  good  crop  of  yeast  and  a 
plentiful  yield  of  carbon  dioxide.  The  water  supplies 
moisture;  the  flour  supplies  sugar,  which  the  yeast- 
plant,  in  its  greed  for  oxygen,  turns  into  alcohol  and 
carbon  dioxide.  More  oxygen  is  supplied  by  beating 
and  kneading  in  air.  The  right  temperature,  78¬∞  to 
90¬∞  F.,  is  insured  by  using  lukewarm  liquid  and  by 
keeping  the  sponge  and  dough  warm  until  it  is  ready 
to  be  baked.  What  is  the  result  ?  A  dough  filled 
with  bubbles  of  gas  given  off  by  the  lively  yeast-cells  ; 
a  dough  that  has  lost  a  little  of  its  sweetness,  but 
gained  other  pleasant  flavors  through  various  fermen- 
tative actions  of  the  yeast  on  the  flour. 

After  alcoholic  fermentation  has  gone  on  for  some 
time,  another  ferment  begins  to  work  on  the  alcohol, 
turning  it  into  acetic  acid  (the  acid  found  in  vinegar). 
This  is  why  dough  sours  if  allowed  to  rise  too  long  or 
at  too  high  a  temperature. 

When  the  dough  is  just  light  enough,^  it  is  put  into 
an  oven  so  hot  that  the  yeast  is  quickly  killed.  Nearly 
all  the  alcohol  is  driven  out  of  the  bread  as  vapor  dur- 
ing baking. 

1  Do  not  try  to  neutralize  sour  dough  with  baking-soda.  Soda  forms 
with  acetic  acid  an  unwholesome  compound,  and  besides,  since  there 
is  no  way  of  knowing  exactly  how  much  acid  has  been  formed,  you 

K 


130        THEORY  AND    PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Helpful  Hints  about  Bread-making 

1.  To  keep  the  dough  from  cooling,  mix  and  knead 
it  quickly.  In  cold  weather,  warm  the  flour,  the  board, 
and  the  mixing  bowl. 

2.  The  longer  the  batter  is  beaten,  the  less  kneading 
the  dough  will  require.  When  the  dough  can  be  lifted 
in  a  mass  on  the  spoon,  it  is  ready  to  knead. 

3.  We  knead  bread  (1)  to  mix  the  ingredients  thor- 
oughly, (2)  to  make  the  gluten  elastic,  and  (3)  to  work 
in  air.  Dough  is  sufficiently  kneaded  when  it  can  be 
left  on  the  board  for  a  minute  or  more  without  sticking. 
Use  as  little  flour  as  possible. 

4.  Sponge  rises  faster  than  dough.  Why  ?  It  is  de- 
sirable to  set  a  sponge  (1)  if  you  have  to  make  bread 
with  a  scant  quantity  of  yeast  ;  (2)  if  using  home-made 
or  other  yeast  that  you  fear  may  not  be  very  active  ; 
(3)  when  butter  and  eggs  are  to  be  added,  as  these 
can  be  mixed  more  easily  with  sponge  than  with 
dough. 

5.  By  using  not  less  than  one  yeast-cake  to  one  pint 
of  liquid  the  following  advantages  are  gained  :  (1)  The 
bread  can  be  made  and  baked  within  five  hours.  (2)  It 
may  more  easily  be  kept  clean  and  free  from  kitchen 
o  lors  than  if  it  stood  longer.  (3)  It  has  not  time  to 
sour. 

6.  If  you  are  unable  to  attend  to  the  dough  as  soon 
as  it  is  risen,  it  may  be  cut  down   (z.e.   scraped  away 

are  likely  to  use  too  much  soda.     Bread  "  sweetened  "  with  soda  is 
more  unwholesome  than  bread  a  little  sour. 


BREAD  131 

from  the  sides  of  the  bowl  and  pressed  over  into  the 
centre)  and  allowed  to  rise  again. 

7.  Dough  that  contains  large  bubbles  has  risen  too 
fast  or  too  long.  It  should  be  cut  down  and  rekneaded 
to  distribute  the  gas  evenly.  Sour  dough  falls  in  the 
middle,  is  stringy,  and  smells  and  tastes  acid. 

8.  Use  round  or  French  bread-pans;  in  the  corners 
of  rectangular  pans  the  dough  has  not  room  fully  to 
expand.  Make  small  loaves  always,  to  insure  the 
bread's  being  baked  through  ;  in  large  loaves,  the  heat 
may  fail  to  penetrate  to  the  centre,  and  some  yeast  may 
remain  alive.  This  yeast,  fermenting  in  the  stomach 
of  the  person  that  eats  the  bread,  is  likely  to  cause 
serious  indigestion.  If  obliged  to  use  pans  more  than 
four  inches  broad,  bake  the  bread  from  one  hour  and 
a  quarter  to  one  hour  and  a  half,  decreasing  the 
heat  after  the  first  half  hour.  Why  should  it  be 
decreased  ? 

9.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  set  a  pan  of  water  in  it  for 
a  few  minutes.  If  bread  rises  much  after  being  put 
into  the  oven,  the  heat  is  not  great  enough  ;  if  it  begins 
to  brown  in  less  than  fifteen  minutes,  the  heat  is  too 
great.  If  the  loaf  rises  or  browns  more  on  one  side 
than  on  the  other,  turn  it  around. 

10.  The  crust,  by  preventing  the  inside  of  the  loaf 
from  drying,  keeps  the  centre  from  becoming  hotter 
than  about  212¬∞  F.  Which  is  more  digestible,  crust  or 
crumb  ?     Why  ? 

11.  Bread  is  baked  when  it  shrinks  from  the  sides 
of  the  pan.     To  make  the  crust  crisp  and  tender,  rub  it 


132   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

while  hot  with  a  bit  of  butter  twisted  in  a  piece  of 
cloth  or  paper.  Set  fresh  loaves  on  edge  in  such  a  way 
that  air  reaches  all  sides  of  them.  When  cool  put 
them  in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar,  without  wrapping. 
Wrapping  bread  in  cloth  makes  it  damp  and  musty. 
234.  Uses  for  stale  bread.  ‚Äî  Stale  bread,  if  heated  in 
a  closely  covered  pan,  becomes  almost  like  new.  Keep 
pieces  of  stale  bread  by  themselves  in  a  jar  or  covered 
bowl.  Stale  slices  may  be  used  for  toast.  (See  direc- 
tions for  toasting  bread,  ¬ß  153.)  Dry  broken  pieces  in 
a  warm  oven  until  they  are  crisp,  but  not  brown. 
Crush  them  on  a  board  with  a  rolling-pin  kept  for  this 
purpose  ;  sift  the  crumbs,  and  keep  them  in  a  jar  to 
use  for  croquettes,  etc.  They  will  keep  several  weeks. 
Coarser  or  browned  crumbs  may  be  used  for  the  tops  of 
scalloped  dishes.  Stale  crumbs  not  dried  are  suitable 
for  bread  puddings  and  filling  of  scalloped  dishes. 
Bread  dried  slowly  in  the  oven  till  brittle  and  brown 
all  through  is  liked  by  many  people  and  is  excellent 
for  children. 

Fancy  Bread  Recipes 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Flour,    4  cupfuls.  Scalded  milk,  1  cupful. 

Salt,      14.  teaspoonful.  Compressed  yeast,  1  cake,  mixed  with 

Butter,  2  tablespooiifuls.         Lukewarm  water,  ]4-  cupful. 
Sugar,  1  tablespoonful ;  extra  butter  melted. 

Reserve  one-half  cupful  of  flour.  Sift  the  salt  with 
the  rest,  rub  in  the  butter,  and  sift  again.  Let  the 
milk  cool  until  lukewarm  ;  then  stir  into  it  the  yeast 


BREAD  133 

and  add  the  flour  gradually,  using  as  much  of  the 
reserved  portion  as  is  necessary.  When  stiff  enough, 
knead  the  dough  on  a  board.  Let  it  rise  until  tripled 
in  bulk.  Roll  out  about  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with 
a  biscuit-cutter,  spread  lightly  with  melted  butter, 
crease  with  the  back  of  a  knife-handle  dipped  in  flour, 
and  fold  almost  double.  Let  the  rolls  rise  until  doubled 
in  bulk  (about  twenty  minutes).  Brush  them  with 
water  or  milk,  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  fifteen 
minutes. 

Swedish  Rolls 

Flour,    about  4  cupfuls.  Scalded  milk,  1  cupful. 

Sugar,  2  tablespoon fuls.  Compressed  yeast,  1  cake  mixed  with 
Salt,       i^  teaspoonful.  Lukewarm  water,  %  cupful. 

Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls.         Eggs,  2. 

Currants,  about  yi  cupful ;  extra  butter  and  sugar. 

Pour  the  milk  over  the  butter,  salt,  and  sugar. 
When  these  have  melted  or  dissolved,  stir  in  the  yeast 
mixed  with  the  water.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a 
drop-batter,  beating  till  full  of  bubbles.  Let  it  rise 
until  very  light.  Add  the  eggs  unbeaten,  beat  well ; 
add  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  knead 
thoroughly,  and  let  it  rise  again.  When  tripled  in 
bulk,  roll  out,  with  as  little  handling  as  possible,  into 
a  rectangle  a  little  less  than  one-half  inch  in  thickness ; 
spread  thinly  with  softened  butter,  working  from  the 
centre  toward  the  edges.  Sprinkle  with  currants  and 
sugar.  Roll  the  dough  up  into  a  cylinder  one  inch  in 
diameter,  and  cut  it  into  slices  one  inch  thick.  Place 
these  close  together  cut  side  down  on  shallow  greased 


134   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

pans,  and  let  them  rise  till  very  light.  Dissolve  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk; 
brush  the  tops  of  the  rolls  with  this  mixture,  and  bake 
them  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

235.  To  clean  currants.  ‚Äî (1)  Sprinkle  with  flour  and 
rub  between  the  folds  of  a  clean  cloth,  (2)  pick  off 
stems,  (3)  rinse  currants  in  a  wire  strainer  until  the 
water  comes  through  cleau,  (4)  shake  to  remove  water, 
and  (5)  dry  in  the  sun,  or  in  a  warm,  not  hot,  oven. 

Digestion  and  Food  Value  of  Bread 

236.  Try  to  crumble  fresh  bread,  stale  bread,  bread- 
crust,  soft  toast,  crisp  dry  toast.  Which  crumble  more 
easily  ?  Which  will  be  most  readily  broken  up  by  the 
teeth  ?  Well-chewed  bread  tastes  better  and  satisfies 
hunger  more  quickly  than  bread  swallowed  hastily. 

237.  Reasons  for  chewing  bread.  ‚Äî  Not  only  does  chew- 
ing aid  solution,  but,  by  exciting  the  nerves  communicating 
between  the  mouth  and  other  digestive  organs,  it  starts  a 
flow  of  digestive  juices  toward  the  stomach  and  intestines  ; 
so  that  well-chewed  food  meets  in  them  a  welcome  not  given 
to  food  hurried  down  the  esophagus  before  its  arrival  in  the 
mouth  has  been  announced.  For  the  gluten,  pepsin  is  ready  ; 
and  any  starch  not  wholly  digested  is  awaited  in  the  small 
intestine  by  a  fluid,  the  pancreatic  juice,  which  converts  it 
into  sugars  easily  absorbed  by  the  intestinal  walls  and 
passed  on  into  the  blood-stream, 

238.  Completion  of  starch  digestion.  ‚Äî  Saliva,  which  is 
alkaline,  loses  its  digestive  power  when  attacked  by  acid. 
After  being  swallowed,  it  continues  to  digest  starch  for 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  sufficient  hydro- 


BREAD  135 

chloric  acid  accumulates  in  the  stomach  to  check  its 
action. 

239.     White     bread     compared  with    other   foods.  ‚Äî  A 

family  eating  a  one-pound  loaf  of  white  bread  for 
breakfast  obtain  about  three  times  the  nourishment 
they  would  from  a  pound  of  potatoes,  and  more  than 
four  times  what  they  would  from  a  pound  (about  one 
pint)  of  oatmeal  mush ;  indeed,  oatmeal  being  less 
completely  digested  than  wheat  bread,  its  food  value 
is  even  lower  than  this  estimate  makes  it.  The  value 
of  any  food  depends  on  its  digestibility  quite  as  much 
as  on  the  amount  of  foodstuffs  it  contains.  Entire- 
wheat  bread,  for  instance,  although  richer  than  white 
bread  in  gluten  and  mineral  matter,  supplies  to  the 
body  less  of  these  materials,  much  of  them  going  to 
waste.     For  constant  use,  white  bread  is  probably  best. 

"The  Staff  of  Life,"  "More  about  Bread,"  "A  Machine  Baker," 
and  "  Crackers  "  are  the  titles  of  short  articles  about  bread  in  Food 
and  Beverages,  pp.  39-50.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  112,  sent  free  on 
application  to  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington, 
D.  C,  gives  many  interesting  facts  about  Bread  and  Bread-making 
not  included  in  this  little  text-book.  Boys  and  Girls  in  Biology,  by 
Sarali  Hackett  Stevenson,  contains  in  its  first  chapter  an  excellent 
description  of  the  life  of  yeast.  Books  published  several  years  ago, 
however,  before  the  processes  of  fermentation  and  bread-making 
were  as  well  understood  as  they  are  now,  may  contain  incorrect 
statements ;  new  facts  are  discovered  daily,  so,  as  a  rule,  use  the 
most  recent  books  you  can  find. 


CHAPTER  V 
FOOD  IN  ITS  RELATION  TO  LIFE 
Section  1.    Body  stuffs  and  Foodstuffs 

It  is  essential  that  the  body  should  be  perfect  in  order  that  the  brain 
may  have  a  chance  to  do  its  work.  ‚Äî  G.  Stanley  Hall. 

240.  Body,  organs,  tissues,  cells.  ‚Äî  The  body  of  a  human 
being,  like  those  of  most  all  animals  and  plants,  consists 
of  parts  called  organs.  The  special  work  of  each  organ 
is  called  its  function.  What  is  the  function  of  the  eye  ? 
Of  the  lungs  ?  Of  the  stomach  ?  Of  a  root  ?  Of  a 
leaf  ?  Organs  differ  from  one  another,  not  in  function 
only,  but  also  in  make-up,  or  structure.  The  various 
kinds  of  material  composing  the  organs  of  the  body  are 
called  tissue,  bony  tissue  being  found  in  bones,  nervous 
tissue  in  nerves,  muscular  tissue  not  in  muscles  only, 
but  in  other  organs.  The  tissues  of  the  body  are  made 
up  of  cells,  as  the  walls  of  a  house  are  constructed  of 
bricks.  Instead,  however,  of  being  laid  together,  as 
bricks  are,  these  cells  grow  together,  each  kind  of  tissue 
being  built  of  similar  cells  of  a  particular  kind. 

241.  Cells  in  the  body  not  all  alike.  ‚Äî  One  yeast-cell  is 
much  like  another,  but  how  about  the  cells  in  a  grain 
of  wheat?  Starch-cells  differ  from  bran-cells  in  struc- 
ture because  they  differ  in  function.     Each  yeast-cell  is 

136 


FOOD   IN   ITS   RELATION   TO   LIFE  137 

independent,  doing  all  its  own  work  ;  but  in  higher 
forms  of  life,  both  plant  and  animal,  where  many  cells 
are  joined  together  in  one  individual,  some  have  one 
function,  some  another.  We  may  compare  a  yeast-plant 
to  a  man  living  alone,  preparing  his  own  food  and  mak- 
ing everything  he  needs  ;  while  a  tree  or  a  horse  or  the 
body  of  a  human  being  is  like  a  nation,  in  which  some 
men  are  farmers,  some  manufacturers,  some  merchants, 
and  so  on.  And  just  as  the  merchant  does  not  under- 
stand farming,  nor  the  man  that  raises  wheat  know  how 
to  make  it  into  flour,  so  a  cell  of  one  kind  cannot  do  the 
work  of  another.  Cells  in  lung  tissue,  for  example,  are 
adapted  for  absorbing  oxygen,  and  cells  in  the  retina  of 
the  eye  for  receiving  rays  of  light ;  but  neither  of  them 
are  able  to  take  in  food  until  it  has  been  prepared  for 
them  by  stomach-cells. 

242.  Bodystuffs.  ‚Äî  In  the  cells  of  the  body  many  com- 
pounds are  found,  most  of  them  being  combinations  of 
some  or  all  of  the  following  elements  :  carbon,  hydro- 
gen, oxygen,  nitrogen.  Calcium  is  found  in  bones, 
phosphorus  in  nerves,  iron  in  blood,  coloring  it  red  ;  and 
these  and  other  elements  in  small  quantities  in  various 
tissues. 

243.  Three  chief  classes  of  organic  foodstuffs :  proteids,^ 
fats,  carbohydrates.  ‚Äî  Proteids,  which  are  compounds  of 
carbon,  hydrogen,  nitrogen,  oxygen,  a  little  sulphur, 
and  in  some  cases  phosphorus,  are  found  in  every  living 
thing,  and  are  the  most  important    of  the  bodystuffs. 

^  Proteid  comes  from  a  word  meanino;  "  I  take  first  rank." 


138   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Water  and  proteids  together  make  up  most  of  the 
flesh  and  blood  and  a  large  part  of  the  rest  of  the  body. 
It  is  plam  now  why  albumin,  casein,  and  gluten  are  such 
good  tissue-builders  ;  being  made  up  of  these  same  ele- 
ments, they  supply  the  material  necessary  for  building 
and  repairing  tissue.  Henceforth,  we  shall  speak  of 
tissue-builders  as  proteids,  and  of  foods  in  which  they 
are  found  abundantly  as  proteid  foods. 

244.  Closely  related  to  the  proteids  are  the  gelatinoids, 
a  group  of  foodstuffs  comprising  gelatin,  collagen,  and 
other  substances  similar  to  proteids  in  composition. 
Gelatinoids  do  not  build  tissue,  but  help  indirectly  to 
build  it,  for  when  present  they  keep  proteid  from  being 
used  as  fuel.  Their  chief  function,  then,  is  that  of  ''pro- 
teid sparers." 

245.  Fat,  like  proteid  matter,  is  both  a  foodstuff  and 
a  bodystuff.  In  the  body  fatty  tissue  is  found  both  in 
masses  and  mixed  with  other  tissues.  Such  parts  of  the 
fats  of  food  as  are  not  oxidized  at  once,  go  to  build 
up  this  tissue,  which  serves  as  a  reserve  supply  of  fuel. 
A  third  class  of  foodstuffs,  the  carbohydrates,  includes 
starch,  sugar,  and  all  other  foodstuffs  composed  of  car- 
bon, hydrogen,  and  oxygen,  the  two  latter  being  in  the 
right  proportions  to  form  water.  Very  little  carbo- 
hydrate matter  is  found  in  animal  bodies,  that  taken  in 
vegetable  food  being  largely  consumed  in  producing 
energy.  The  acids  of  vegetables  and  fruits,  though 
forming  but  a  minute  part  of  our  food,  are  essential 
to  the  healthy  condition  of  the  blood. 


FOOD   IN   ITS    RELATION   TO   LIFE  139, 

246.  Animal  and  plant  foods.  ‚Äî  Animal  foods  consist 
chiefly  of  proteicls  ;  plant  or  vegetable  foods,  while  in 
many  cases  containing  proteids,  contain  much  greater 
proportions  of  carbohydrates.  Which  is  most  like  the 
human  body  in  structure  and  composition,  animal  or 
plant  food?  Which  would  you  expect  to  find  most 
easily  digested  ? 

247.  Two  classes  of  inorganic  foodstuffs.  ‚Äî  Since  lime, 
potash,  sodium,  and  other  mineral  matters  form  part  of  our 
living  bodies,  these  too  must  be  included  in  food.  We 
take  them  in  chiefly  as  soluble  salts  in  the  juices  of  meats, 
fruits,  and  vegetables,  the  only  mineral  substance  added 
to  food  being  common  salt  (^sodium  chloride}.  Water  by 
itself  does  not  nourish  the  body;  that  is,  it  neither  builds 
tissue  nor  yields  energy;  but  so  necessary  is  it  to  the 
carrying  on  of  these  and  other  life  processes  that  it 
may  be  considered  a  foodstuff.      (¬ß41.) 

248.  Functions  of  food.  ‚Äî  Tissue-building,  heat-giving, 
force-making  ;  these  are  the  primary  functions  respec- 
tively of  proteids,  fats,  and  carbohydrates.  But  no  one 
of  them  is  limited  to  one  kind  of  work.  Have  we  not 
learned  that  carbohydrates  yield  energy  in  the  form  of 
heat  as  well  as  of  force,  and  that  fats  yield  both  these 
and  build  one  kind  of  tissue  besides  ?  Proteid,  a  tissue- 
builder  by  reason  of  its  nitrogen,  is  also,  because  of  its 
unoxidized  carbon,  a  fuel  food.  Thus  a  temporary  lack 
of  one  of  these  chief  classes  of  foodstuffs  is  readily 
made  good  by  another.  Bear  in  mind,  however,  that 
only  nitrogenous  foodstuffs  build  tissue  (fatty  issue  ex- 


140   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

cepted);  so,  while  a  diet  of  proteids  (with  water  and 
mineral  matter)  may  sustain  life,  on  a  diet  of  carbohy- 
drates, or  fat,  or  both,  a  person  would  waste  away  and 
die. 

249.  Food  adjuncts  are  substances  not  nutritious,  but 
taken  for  their  pleasant  taste  or  stimulating  effect. 
Such  are  spices,  flavorings,  tea,  coffee,  and  some  other 
beverages. 

250.  Fermented  liquors  (wine,  beer,  whiskey,  gin,  etc.) 
are  taken  for  the  sake  of  the  alcohol  they  contain.^  In 
small  doses  alcohol  yields  a  little  energy.  But  not  all 
substances  that  yield  energy  in  the  body  are  foods,  any 
more  than  all  combustible  substances  are  fuels.  Some 
of  the  latter  are  dangerous  explosives.  Some  of  the 
former  are  poisons  ;  morphia  and  carbolic  acid,  for  ex- 
ample. Alcohol,  like  these  poisons,  is  more  powerful 
for  harm  than  for  good.  Instead  of  satisfying  a  want, 
it  produces  an  unnatural  craving  ;  in  spite  of  the  feel- 
ing of  warmth  it  gives,  it  really  lowers  the  bodily  tem- 
perature ;  instead  of  building  tissue,  it  injures  it, 
particularly  that  of  the  nerves  and  brain.  Alcohol  is 
not,  therefore,  in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  word,  a  food, 
although,  like  other  drugs,  it  may  sometimes  be  used  as 
a  medicine. 

1  Beer  contains,  exclusive  of  alcohol,  less  than  one-tenth  the  quantity 
of  nutritive  material  contained  in  an  equal  weight  of  bread.  It  has 
been  estimated  that  fourteen  cents'  worth  of  beer  is  equalled  in  food 
value  by  a  little  over  one  cent's  worth  of  bread. 


FOOD   IN   ITS   RELATION    TO   LIFE  141 

Section  2.    Diet 

Simple  diet  is  best,  for  many  dishes  bring  many  diseases.  ‚Äî  Pliny. 

251.  The  normal  diet  is  one  containing  both  nitrogenous 
and  no7i-nitrogenous  food.  A  person  limited  to  proteid 
food,  such  as  lean  meat,  would  have  to  take  in  more 
nitrogen  than  he  needed  in  order  to  get  enough  carbon; 
on  the  other  hand,  on  a  diet  of  rice,  he  would  have  to 
eat  enormously  in  order  to  get  enough  proteid  and 
fat. 

The  ability  of  one  kind  of  food  or  foodstuff  to  take 
the  place  of  another  makes  it  impossible  to  say  in  just 
what  proportions  these  should  be  combined  to  form  a 
perfect  diet.  It  has  been  found  that  a  man  at  work 
keeps  well  and  strong  on  about  the  following  daily 
allowance  :  ‚Äî 

Proteids,  100  grams  (3.5  ounces). 

Fats,  50  grams  (1.7  ounces). 

Carbohydrates,  500  grams  (17.5  ounces). 

Mineral  salts,  30  grams  (1  ounce). 

Water,  2800  grams  (100  ounces,  or  a  little 

more  than  six  pints,  much  of  this 
being  contained  in  food) . 

With  more  fat,  however,  he  would  require  less  pro- 
teid. The  quantity  and  proportion  of  food  needed 
varies  with  age,  climate,  habits  of  life,  and  other 
conditions.  Familiarity  with  the  Table  giving  the 
Chemical  Composition  of  American  Food  Materials,  on 
p.  319,  will  aid  you  in  selecting  food  and  in  planning 
meals. 


142        THEORY   AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Practical  Points  about  feeding  a  Family 

252.  1 .  Brain-workers  (teachers,  students,  clerks,  etc.) 
need  easily  digestible  food  ;  muscle  workers  (working- 
men,  etc.)  find  coarser  food  better  suited  to  their  needs. 

2.  No  one  meal  need  be  "  balanced,"  that  is,  need 
contain  proteids,  carbohydrates,  and  fats  in  perfect  pro- 
portion, but  each  day's  food  should  include  all  three 
kinds,  and  a  week's  dietary  should  approach  the  stand- 
ard.    (See  table  on  p.  141.) 

3.  Diet  should  be  varied  as  well  as  mixed  ;  for  ex- 
ample, do  not  depend  too  much  on  potatoes  for  starch  ; 
have  rice  or  macaroni  sometimes  instead. 

4.  When  planning  a  meal,  think  what  was  served  at 
the  preceding  one  ;  if  starchy  foods  chiefly,  supply 
plenty  of  proteid.  Do  not  forget  that  butter,  eggs, 
milk,  etc.,  used  in  cooking  count  as  food  just  as  much 
as  if  served  by  themselves  on  the  table.  By  planning 
meals,  in  part  at  least,  for  several  days  ahead,  you  will 
find  it  easier  to  provide  varied  and  rightly  balanced 
fare. 

5.  Food  is  not  necessarily  nutritious  in  proportion 
to  its  cost.  (See  Economy  in  Marketing,  ¬ß  320,  and 
Selecting  Vegetables,  ¬ß395;  also  Appendix  B.) 

6.  Remember  that  plant  proteid  may  take  the  place 
of  animal  proteid  ;  if  you  have  but  a  small  piece  of 
meat,  serve  peas  or  beans  with  it  rather  than  beets. 
(¬ß392.) 

7.  Familiarize  yourself  with  the  composition  of  com- 
mon foods  so  that  you  may  readily  think  of  suitable 


FOOD    IN    ITS   RELATION    TO  LIFE  143 

combinations  and  know  how  to  supply  lack  of  one  food 
by  another  of  similar  character. 

Helpful  Reading  in  the  American  Kitchen  Magazine.  ‚Äî "  Every- 
day Breakfasts,"  Vol.  XIII,  p.  18;  "Food  for  a  Typical 
American  Family,"  Vol.  VI,  p.  26  (for  pupils  who  have  had  a  year 
of  cookery)  ;  "  A  Twenty-fom-  Cent  Dinner,"  Vol.  XI,  p.  9 ;  and 
"  Menus  "  in  each  month's  issue  during  1898. 


CHAPTER   VI 

TISSUE-BUILDING  POODS :    THE    FLESH  OF 
ANIMALS 

Section    1.    Meat:    Its   Structure,    Composition,  and 
Cooking 

253.  In  general,  flesh-food  is  called  meat.  In  our 
markets,  however,  this  term  is  applied  only  to  the  flesh 
of  cattle,  sheep,  and  swine,  that  of  mature  animals  being 
known  as  beef,  mutton,  and  pork,  respectively,  that  of 
calves  as  veal,  and  of  lambs  as  lamb. 

Lean  Meat:  A  study  of  it  in  connection  with  its 
preparation  in  some  simple  ways. 

Directions  for  One  Way  of  preparing  Beef-juice 

254.  Use  a  one-half  pound  slice  of  the  top  round  of 
beef  cut  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Let  a  small 
bowl  stand  in  a  pan  of  boiling-hot  water  until  thor- 
oughly heated  ;  then  lay  in  it  the  beef,  letting  first  one 
side,  then  the  other,  lie  next  to  the  bowl.  When  the 
heat  has  whitened  it,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and 
squeeze  these,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a  meat-press,  vege- 
table-press, or  lemon-squeezer.  (For  serving  Beef- 
juice,  see  p.  305.) 

255.  Composition  and  structure  of  lean  meat. ‚Äî What 
foodstuff  have  we  found  in  the  animal  foods  we  have 

144 


THE  FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  145 

already  used  ?     How  can  we  find  out  if  it  is  also  con- 
tained in  meat  ? 

Experiment.  ‚Äî  A.  Test  beef-juice  for  albumin.  If  albumin  is 
shown  to  be  present,  observe  the  form  in  which  it  appears.  Com- 
pare with  pure  white-of-egg  cooked,  and  with  white-of-egg  mixed 
with  water  and  heated.  AVhat  besides  albumin  do  you  think  beef- 
juice  contains  ?  Note  that  heating  destroys  the  red  color  of  beef- 
juice.     What  gives  it  this  color  ? 

256.  Nitric  acid  added  to  beef-juice  clots  it  and  turns  it 
yellow.  What  does  this  prove?  What  other  nitrogenous 
substance  is  coagulated  by  acid  ?  Human  flesh,  too,  is 
stained  yellow  by  nitric  acid.     How  do  you  explain  this? 

257.  Beef-juice  contains  albumin  and  other  proteids, 
mineral  salts,  and  extractives,  dissolved  in  water  ;  boil- 
ing coagulates  the  albumin  into  a  brownish  jelly.  In 
the  bits  of  beef  we  have  pressed  there  remains  some 
albuminous  juice  ;  what  besides  may  be  shown  by  an- 
other experiment  ? 

Experiments.  ‚Äî  B.  Observe  the  fibrous  appearance  of  a  piece  of 
round  of  beef.  Can  you  see  any  fat  among  the  fibres?  Scrape 
with  a  knife  first  one  side,  then  the  other,  of  one  of  the  pieces  of 
meat  from  which  the  juice  has  been  squeezed,  until  only  the  fibres 
are  left.  Pick  some  of  them  apart  with  a  needle.  Try  to  break  or 
tear  them.     C.  Heat  the  mass  of  fibre,  and  note  the  effect. 

Each  fibre  is  a  bundle  of  tube-shaped  cells  filled 
chiefly  with  proteid  substance.  These  tubes  are  cov- 
ered and  bound  together  with  a  web  cf  white  connec- 
tive tissue,  threaded  by  tiny  blood-vessels.  Toward  the 
ends  of  the  muscles  the  fibres  dwindle  down  till  only  a 
firm  mass  of  connective  tissue,  called   tendon,   is    left. 


146   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

The  contents  of  the  tubes  and  blood-vessels  may  be 
scraped  out,  leavmg  these,  with  the  connective  tissue, 
in  a  pale-colored,  stringy  mass. 

258.  Two  facts  important  to  bear  in  mind  in  cooking 
meat.  ‚Äî 1.  Heat,  by  causing  the  collagen  in  the  con- 
nective tissue  to  swell,  tends  to  force  the  juices  out  of 
the  muscle-fibres.^  2.  Dry  heat  hardens  connective 
tissue. 

259.  The  pulp  of  meat  consists  chiefly  of  myosin,  a  jelly- 
like proteid  similar  to  the  fibrin  of  blood.  Both  myosin  and 
fibrin  are  liquid  during  life,  but  clot  after  death.^ 

Directions    for   making    Raw    Beef    Sandwiches    (for 
Invalids) 

Cut  juicy,  lean  beef  into  thin  strips.  Scrape  the  pulp  from 
them,  season  it  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  between 
thin  slices  of  bread. 

260.  Microscopical  examination  of  meat  fibre.  ‚Äî  Soak  in  salted 
water  a  few  fibres  of  beef  from  leg  or  round.  Examine  them 
under  a  microscope,  using  a  one-inch  objective.  Look  at  the  ends 
of  the  fibres.  Can  you  see  that  they  are  hollow  tubes  ?  Observe 
the  fine  stripes  (strice)  on  the  fibres.  The  muscles  of  the  stomach 
and  some  other  organs  are  not  striped. 

261.  Tests  for  mineral  salts  in  meat.  ‚Äî  A.  Heat  a  bit  of  meat 
in  a  crucible  or  evaporating  dish  over  a  Bunsen  burner  for  several 

1  See  ¬ß  244.  Though  collagen  swells,  a  mass  of  connective  tissue, 
as  a  whole,  shrinks  when  heated.  This  shrinkage  is  caused  by  loss  of 
water. 

2  The  liquid  forms,  myosinogen  ?iXi6.  fibrinogen^  differ  chemically 
from  the  clotted  substances,  bearing  the  same  relation  to  them  that 
caseinogen  does  to  casein.     (¬ß  169,  note  1.) 


) 


THE    FLESH    OF    ANIMALS  147 

hours,  or  until  only  ash  is  left.  B.  Into  a  test-tube  of  water  put 
a  pinch  of  common  salt,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  silver  nitrate.  The 
latter  forms  with  the  salt  a  white  cloud.  Xow  add  silver  nitrate 
to  beef-juice  diluted  with  water.     What  salt  does  beef  contain  ? 

Directions  for  preparing  Bottled  Beef-juice 

Cut  into  small  bits  one  pound  of  lean  beef  from  the  top  round. 
Put  it  in  a  glass  jar,  put  on  the  cover,  and  set  the  jar,  wrapped  in 
cloth,  or  supported  on  a  trivet,  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Heat 
the  water  slowly  to  about  130¬∞  F.,  or  till  it  steams,  let  it  remain  at 
this  temperature  four  or  five  hours,  then  strain,  pressing  the  meat 
to  obtain  all  the  juice.     (For  directions  for  serving,  see  p.  305.) 

Albuminous  food  being  most  easily  digestible  raw, 
raw  beef-juice  is  desirable  for  persons  with  weak  diges- 
tion. In  preparing  bottled  beef-juice  the  object  is  to 
apply  just  heat  enough  to  express  the  juice,  without 
coagulating  it.  If  the  water  in  the  kettle  becomes  too 
hot,  the  juice  thickens  and  turns  brown. 

262.  Experiments  showing  the  action  of  cold  water  and  of  salt 
upon  meat.  ‚Äî  A.  Cover  a  bit  of  raw  meat  with  cold  water,  and 
observe  how  quickly  the  water  becomes  red.  What  does  this 
show  ?     Is  anything  besides  blood  drawn  out  ? 

B.  Filter  the  water  through  filter-paper  and  heat  the  filtrate, 
i.e.  the  liquid  that  passes  through.  Has  any  albumin  dissolved  in 
the  water  ? 

C.  Sprinkle  a  bit  of  raw  meat  with  salt.  What  does  the  salt  do 
to  the  juices  of  the  meat?  How  do  these  afterward  act  upon  the 
salt? 

What  conclusions  do  you  draw  from  these  experiments  with 
regard  to  (1)  putting  meat  into  water  to  wash  it,  and  (2)  salting 
meat  before  cooking  it  ? 


148   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

263.  Care  of  uncooked  meat.  ‚Äî  As  soon  as  meat  is 
brought  into  the  house,  take  it  out  of  the  wrapping- 
paper,  wipe  it  with  a  damp  cloth,  cut  out  any  part  dis- 
colored by  a  meat-hook,  and  set  it  away  in  a  cool  place. 

HOW  TO  COOK  TENDER  MEAT:  BROILING,  ROASTING, 
BOILING 

264.  When  the  whole  piece  of  meat  is  to  be  eaten,  we 
desire  so  to  cook  it  as  to  retain  all  the  juice.  This  is 
done  by  exposing  it  for  a  short  time  to  heat  intense 
enough  to  harden  the  albumin  on  its  surface,  thereby 
sealing  up  the  juices  inside,  and  then  for  a  longer  time 
to  a  lower  temperature,  to  complete  the  cooking  of  these 
juices.  Can  you  think  of  two  reasons  for  not  cooking  it 
at  a  high  temperature  all  the  time?  Would  you  choose 
a  thick  or  a  thin  piece  of  meat  for  broiling  ?  Why  ? 
One  with  much  or  little  connective  tissue  ?     Why  ? 

265.  Meat :  tough  and  tender. ‚Äî  Meat,  to  be  wholesome, 
must  come  from  a  healthy  animal  ;  to  be  nutritious,  from 
a  well-nourished  one.  Much-used  muscles  absorb  much 
food  material,  making  rich,  juicy  meat.  This  is,  how- 
ever, tougher  than  that  of  parts  less  used,  because  the 
connective  tissue  and  fibre  increase  as  well  as  the  con- 
tents of  the  muscle-tubes.  In  which  parts  of  the  ox  or 
sheep  would  you  expect  to  find  tender  meat  ?  In  which 
parts  tougher,  juicier  meat  ? 

266.  How  to  know  good  beef.  ‚Äî  The  lean  of  good  beef 
is  firm,  elastic,  and,  when  first  cut,  purplish  red,  the  sur- 
face becoming  bright  red  and  moist  after  exposure  to 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  149 

the  air.  The  tenderer  cuts  are  fine-grained  and  well- 
mottled  with  fat ;  a  thick  layer  of  firm,  light  straw-col- 
ored fat  extends  over  the  rib  and  loin  cuts  ;  the  kidney 
suet  is  white  and  crumbly.  Flabby,  dark,  or  coarse 
beef  with  yellow  fat  is  poor ;  if  it  has  little  fat,  it  is 
from  an  old  or  under-fed  creature. 

267.  The  characteristics  of  good  mutton  and  lamb  are 
similar  to  those  of  good  beef,  excepting  tliat  the  lean  is 
lighter-colored,  and  the  fat  whiter. 

268.  The  best  cuts  for  broiling  are  steaks  from  the  loin 
of  beef  (sliort,  porter-house,  and  sirloin),  and  rib  or 
loin  chops  of  mutton  and  lamb.  (For  other  broiling 
pieces,  see  table,  pp.  180-187.) 

Directions  for  broiling  Beefsteak 

269.  Time.  ‚Äî  For  a  steak  one  inch  thick,  five  or  six 
minutes;  one  and  one-half  inches  thick,  eight  to  ten 
minutes. 

Steak  properly  broiled  is  puffy  from  the  expansion 
into  steam  of  the  imprisoned  moisture,  well  browned  on 
the  outside,  and  juicy  and  red,  without  being  purplish, 
to  within  one-eighth  of  an  inch  of  the  surface.  Steak 
less  than  one  inch  thick  loses  so  much  water  by  evapo- 
ration that  the  inside  is  dry  before  the  outside  is  brown. 
(^Pid  a  platter  to  ivarm  before  beginning  to  broil  the  steak.') 

(1)  To  broil  by  a  coal  fire.  ‚Äî  Have  the  coals  glowing 
hot,  without  fiame  or  smoke.  Grease  a  double  broiler 
with  beef  fat,  place  the  steak  in  it,  and  hold  it  near  the 
coals  wliile  counting  ten  slowly.  Turn  the  broiler, 
and  hold  the  other  side  down  for  the  same  length  of 


150   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

time.  Continue  to  turn  the  meat  about  once  in  ten 
seconds  for  about  one  minute,  or  until  it  is  well  seared  ; 
then  hold  it  farther  from  the  fire,  turning  occasionally 
until  the  surface  is  brown. ^  Just  before  taking  it  from 
the  fire  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pejDper,  turning  each  side 
once  more  to  the  heat  to  cook  the  seasoning  in.  When 
the  steak  is  cooked,  lift  it  on  to  the  platter,  spread  both 
sides  with  butter,  or  with  Maitre  d' Hotel  butter,  gar- 
nish, if  you  like,  with  water-cress  and  slices  of  lemon, 
or  with  parsley,  and  serve  without  delay. 

270.  (2)  To  broil  by  gas.  ‚Äî  Have  the  broiling  oven 
hot.  Lay  the  meat  in  a  double  broiler  or  directly  on 
the  rack  over  the  pan.  In  the  latter  case  turn  the 
meat  with  two  spoons  to  avoid  piercing  it.  Proceed 
as  in  broiling  over  coals,  except  that  the  meat  requires 
turning  only  three  or  four  times.  Turn  down  the  gas 
and  lower  the  pan,  if  necessary,  after  the  meat  is  seared. 

271.  Lamb  and  mutton  chops  are  broiled  like  beefsteak, 
allowing  six  to  eight  minutes,  according  to  thickness. 
Mutton  chops  may  be  slightly  red  in  the  middle ;  lamb 
chops  are  usually  preferred  less  rare.  Tomato  Sauce  or 
green  peas  may  be  served  with  chops. 

272.  Pan-broiling.  ‚Äî  Meat  cooked  on  a  pan  may  be 
almost  as  well-flavored  and  juicy  as  broiled  meat,  if 
properly  done. 

1  Reasons  for  turning  the  meat:  1.  To  prevent  the  escape  of  juice. 
The  meat  must  be  turned  just  before  the  juice  forced  out  of  the  tissues 
nearest  the  heat  begins  to  escape  from  the  upper  side  ;  if  it  overflows, 
it  will  drip  and  be  lost.     2.    To  insure  even  cooking. 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  151 

Use  a  cast-iron^  not  a  sheet-iron,  pan,  and  let  it  become 
almost  red-hot  before  putting  the  meat  in.  Rub  it 
lightly  with  a  bit  of  fat  from  the  meat,  let  the  meat  lie 
on  one  side  till  seared,  then  turn  it,  and  continue  turn- 
ing it  occasionally  until  done.  If  melted  fat  collects  in 
the  pan,  pour  it  off.  Season  and  serve  like  broiled  meat. 
Turn  chops  on  edge  for  a  few  moments  to  brown  the  fat. 

Is  pan-broiling  the  same  as  what  is  commonly  called 
"  frying  "  ?  Why  not  ?  What  objection  is  there  to 
"  frying "  meat  and  other  albuminous  foods  ?  Are 
griddle  cakes  fried?     (Methods  of  cooking,  ¬ß  106.) 

Recipe  for  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter 

Butter,  %  cupful.  Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Lemon-juice,  1  tablespoonful.         Parsley,  cut  fine,  1  tablespoonful. 
Salt,  Yz  teaspoonful. 

Cream  the  butter  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients. 

Recipe  for  Tomato  Sauce  (for  Meat) 
Tomato,  1  pint.  A  sprig  of  parsley. 

Chopped  onion,  1  teaspoonful.         Butter,  )^  cupful. 
Whole  cloves,     2.  Flour,    %  cupful. 

A  bit  of  bay-leaf.  Salt,       1  teaspoonful. 

Pepper,  yi  teaspoonful. 

Cook  the  first  five  ingredients  together  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Mix  the  others  in  a  saucepan  and  strain  into 
them  the  tomato  mixture.  Cook,  stirring,  till  the  sauce 
boils. 

273.  Which  is  the  largest,  a  short-steak,  a  porter- 
house, or  a  sirloin  ?  Observe  that  each  contains 
one-half  of  one  of  the  bones  of  the  spine  (yertehroe^ 


152   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

plural),  and  that  between  this  bone  and  the  kidney 
fat  lies  the  tenderest  part  of  the  steak.  These  tender 
parts  are  sections  of  the  tenderloin,  a  little-used  muscle 
which  extends  along  the  spine  from  the  rearmost  rib 
to  the  hip  joint,  being  thickest  near  the  forward  end 
of  the  hip-bone,  where  hip-bone  sirloin  steaks  are  cut. 

Beef  grows  tougher  and  coarser  the  farther  down  it 
lies  on  the  flank.  Which  of  the  three  loin  cuts  of 
steak  has  most  flank  ?  Flank  ends  of  steak  should  be 
trimmed  off  and  used  for  soup  or  stew.  Why  not  broil 
them  ?  Compare  sirloin  or  porter-house  steak  with  a 
lamb  or  mutton  loin  chop,  finding  in  both  spinal  verte- 
bra, tenderloin,  outside  fat,  kidney  fat,  and  flank.  Com- 
pare a  rib  chop  with  the  cut  of  beef  called  prime  roasting 
ribs.     What  advantage  have  loin  over  rib  chops  ? 

274.  For  roasting,^  as  for  broiling,  tender  cuts  are 
best.  Sirloin  and  porter-house  roasts  are  compactly 
rolled ;  rib  pieces  may  be  either  roasted  whole,  forming 
a  standing  roast,  or  boned  and  rolled.  Leaving  in  the 
bones  improves  the  flavor,  but  the  thin  end  of  a  stand- 
ing roast  is  likely  to  be  overdone  by  the  time  the  thick 
end  is  sufficiently  cooked. 

Directions  for  roasting  Beef 

275.  Time. ‚Äî Ten  or  twelve  minutes  to  the  pound. 
The  smaller  the  piece  of  meat  the  shorter  the  time  per 
pound. 

1  To  roast  meat,  properly  speaking,  is  to  cook  it  before  an  open 
grate,  a  method  superseded  in  this  country  by  "  oven-roasting,"  which 
is  really  baking. 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  153 

In  properly  roasted  beef,  the  outside  fat  is  brown  and 
crisp,  the  lean  brown  to  a  depth  of. not  more  than  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch,  the  interior  evenly  red  and  full  of 
juice. 

Have  the  oven  at  first  as  hot  as  for  bread. ^  Skewer 
or  tie  the  meat  into  compact  form,  place  on  a  rack  in  a 
pan,  skin  side  down,  and  dredge  meat  and  pan  with  flour. 
In  the  pan  put  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  If  the  meat  is  very  lean,  put  a 
few  bits  of  fat  in  the  pan.  When  the  beef  is  seared 
and  the  flour  brown,  reduce  the  heat,  and  baste  the 
meat ;  that  is,  dip  over  it  the  melted  fat  from  the  pan.^ 
Baste  about  once  in  ten  minutes  until  done.  After 
half  an  hour  turn  the  roast  over  to  brown  the  skin  side. 

276.  To  make  brown  gravy.  ‚Äî  After  removing  the 
roast  to  the  plate,  take  out  the  rack  and  pour  or  skim 
off  most  of  the  fat  from  the  liquid  in  the  pan.  Set  the 
pan  on  the  stove,  and  dredge  into  this  liquid  about 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Add  one  and  one-half 
cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  five  minutes,  stir- 
ring. Taste  to  see  how  much  salt  and  pepper  are  re- 
quired, add  these,  and  strain  into  a  gravy  boat.  If  not 
brown  enough,  add  a  few  drops  of  "kitchen  bouquet." 
(Browning  of  flour,  ¬ß  126.) 

1  The  smaller  the  roast  the  hotter  should  be  the  oven.  It  is  well  to 
sear  a  small  roast  by  holding  each  part  of  its  surface  in  turn  on  a  hot 
frying-pan  ;  if  this  is  done,  less  heat  is  required  in  the  oven. 

2  Reason  for  basting.  ‚Äî  The  fat  and  flour,  aided  by  heat,  form  a 
crust,  imprisoning  the  juices  of  the  meat,  and  preventing  the  lean 
from  charring. 


154   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

277.  Experiment  to  show  the  effect  of  cold  and  of  hot  water 
upon  meat.  ‚Äî  Into  each  of  two  test-tubes  put  two  bits  of  meat  of 
tlie  same  size.  Cover  one  with  cold  water,  the  other  with  hot 
water,  and  boil  the  latter  for  two  or  three  minutes.  After  letting 
both  stand  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  observe  (¬´)  differences  in 
the  appearance  of  the  bits  of  meat,  (b)  in  the  appearance  of  the 
water  in  the  two  test-tubes.  Which  piece  of  meat  has  lost  the 
most  juice?     Explain  why. 

Should  the  cooking  water  for  meat  be  cold  or  hot 
when  the  meat  is  put  into  it?  Why?  How  may  we 
contrive  to  retain  the  juice  and  yet  not  overcook  the 
meat?  Is  it  strictly  correct  to  call  meat  properly 
cooked  in  water  "boiled"  meat?  Which  is  higher 
flavored,  roasted  or  so-called  boiled  meat? 

The  great  heat  to  which  meat  is  exposed  in  broiling  or 
roasting  decomposes  some  of  its  constituents,  producing 
new  compounds  of  richer  flavor.  A  temperature  of  212¬∞ 
F.  being  too  low  to  produce  these  chemical  changes,  the 
flavor  of  meat  cooked  in  water  is,  by  comparison,  insipid. 

Directions  for  "boiling"  a  Leg  of  Mutton 

278.  Time.  ‚Äî  Fifteen  minutes  per  pound. 

Cover  the  leg  of  mutton  with  boiling  water,  let  this 
come  to  the  boiling-point  again,  and  boil  five  minutes  ; 
skim  off  the  coagulated  albumin  ("scum");  then  sim- 
mer until  the  meat  is  tender.  Serve  with  Caper  Sauce, 
made  by  adding  one-half  cupful  of  capers^  drained,  to  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  Drawn  Butter  (recipe  on  p.  203) 
made  with  the  mutton  liquor. 

279.  Salt   meats.  ‚Äî  Corned  beef,  ham,    and   tongue, 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  155 

which  are  better  for  having  some  of  their  salt  drawn 
out,  shoukl  be  put  to  cook  in  cold  water.  After  this 
boils,  follow  the  directions  for  cooking  a  leg  of  mutton. 

The  taste  of  Avater  in  which  meat  has  been  cooked 
shows  that  some  of  the  substance  of  the  meat  has  escaped 
into  it ;  save  it,  therefore,  to  use  in  soup-making.  Can 
we  use  the  cooking  water  from  salt  meat  for  soup? 

USES   FOR  THE   GELATINOUS  PARTS   OF   MEAT: 
SOUP-STOCK   AND   SOUPS 

280.  Soup  an  economical  dish.  ‚Äî  Soup,  by  some  people 
mistakenly  thought  to  be  an  expensive  luxury,  is  gen- 
erally a  means  of  economy  ;  since  a  soup,  tempting  and 
nutritious,  can  be  made  of  the  cheapest  materials,  in= 
eluding  remnants  of  food  unfit  for  other  use.  Economy 
means  management^  not  saving  merely,  though  some- 
times wrongly  understood  in  the  latter  sense.  Good 
economy  includes  wise  spending  and  using ;  it  is  as 
wasteful  to  broil  meat  too  tough  to  be  chewed  or 
digested  as  it  would  be  to  throw  away  meat  that  might 
be  used  ;  it  is  as  prudent  to  purchase  a  small  quantity 
of  vegetables  and  seasonings,  which  will  help  to  make 
a  savory  soup  or  stew  out  of  material  useless  by  itself, 
as  to  refrain  from  buying  something  not  needed. 

SoUP-MAKING 

281.  Soup-stock.  ‚Äî  Soup-stock  is  the  basis  of  all  meat 
soups.  It  consists  of  the  soluble  portions  of  meat,  vegeta- 
bles, and  sometimes  other  ingredients  dissolved  in  water. 


156   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Directions  for  making  Soup-stock 

Raw  meat  and  bone,  about  2  pounds. 

Cooked  meat,  or  meat  and  bone,  about  1  pound. 

Cold  water  (fresh,  or  from  cooked  meat  or  vegetables),     3  quarts. 

To  each  pound  of  meat  and  bone  allow  of  onion,  carrot,  turnip, 
cut  into  half-inch  cubes,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  each.^ 

Celery,  1  stalk  or  1  root.  Salt,  about  Yz  teaspoonful. 

A  bit  of  bay-leaf.  Peppercorns,  2, 

A  sprig  of  parsley.  or 

Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Have  the  bones  sawed  into  inch  lengths  and  split; 
cut  the  meat  into  inch  cubes  or  smaller.  Why?  If 
the  raw  meat  only  is  used,  brown  one-third  of  it  in  a 
little  of  the  fat  in  a  frying-pan.^  Let  meat  and  bones 
soak  in  the  water  for  one  hour,  then  simmer  in  a  cov- 
ered kettle  four  or  five  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  in 
fragments.  About  one  hour  before  taking  the  stock 
from  the  fire,  add  to  it  the  vegetables  and  seasonings. 
When  the  vegetables  are  very  soft  strain  the  stock 
through  a  coarse  strainer  and  set  it  aside  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  or  until  the  fat  solidifies  on  its  surface. 
Remove  every  speck  of  this  fat,  saving  it  to  try  out, 
and  if  the  stock  is  to  be  used  for  clear  soup,  clear  it 
according  to  the  directions  on  p.  161. 

Bone,  commonly  regarded  as  refuse,  is  called  for  in 
tiie  Directions  for  making  Soup-stock.     If  we  compare 

1  Seasonings  and  flavorings  may  be  varied  or,  in  part,  omitted. 

2  By  this  means  the  soup  gains  in  flavor,  though  at  the  cost  of  some 
food  value. 


THE    FLESH    OF    ANIMALS  157 

this  stock  with  bouillon,  or  with  any  broth  made  from 
meat  with  little  or  no  bone,  we  shall  find  that  the  first 
is  jellied  when  cold,  the  second  liquid.  What  is  there 
in  bones  to  make  this  difference  ? 

A  Study  of  Bone 

282.  A.  Examine  the  ends  of  a  shin-bone  sawed  in  two. 
Where  is  the  bone  the  hardest?  Where  is  it  spongy?  Where 
soft  ?  The  soft  substance  is  marrow.  Try  to  bend  or  break  the 
bone.     Observe  the  tough  fibrous  covering  on  the  ends  of  it. 

B.  Put  one  piece  of  the  bone  in  diluted  hydrochloric  acid  (six 
parts  of  water  to  one  part  of  acid)  ;  after  a  few  days  compare  it 
with  the  other  piece.  Has  the  acid  changed  the  shape  of  the  bone? 
Its  size?  How  has  it  affected  it?  See  if  you  can  tie  it  in  a  knot. 
What  makes  bone  hard?  What,  then,  has  the  acid  taken  out  of 
the  bone? 

C.  Tie  a  wire  around  the  other  piece  of  bone,  and  lay  it  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  hot  coal-fire.  Remove  it  by  means  of  the  wire. 
How  has  it  been  changed?  Does  it  break  easily?  What  part  of 
the  bone  has  been  burned? 

283.  Structure  and  composition  of  bone.  ‚Äî  Bone  is  the 
hardest  of  animal  tissues,  yet  it  is  one-half  Avater;  the 
other  half  consists  of  about  two-thirds  mineral,  and 
one- third  animal  matter,  the  mineral  being  largely 
calcium  phosphate,  commonly  called  phosphate  of  lime; 
the  animal  matter  chiefly  fat  and  collagen^.  In  the 
centre  of  hollow  bone  is  a  mass  of  fatty  stuff,  the  mar- 
row. Surrounding,  and,  in  some  cases,  forming  the  end 
of  the  bone  is  the  flexible,  slippery  substance  called 
cartilage,  or  gristle;  and,  connecting  bones  at  the  joints, 

1  Often  called  ossein  in  bones. 


158   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

are  bands  or  ligaments  of  cartilage.  Cartilage  may  be 
considered  soft  bone,  since  it  differs  from  bone  mainly 
in  having  less  mineral  matter.  The  bones  of  children 
and  young  animals  are  soft  because  cartilaginous;  the 
older  the  individual  grows,  the  harder  the  bones  become. 
The  two  kinds  of  material  in  bone  may  be  separated  by 
soaking  in  acid,  which  dissolves  the  inorganic  substance; 
or  by  burning,  which  destroys  the  organic. 

284.  How  cooking  affects  bones.  ‚Äî  By  long  cooking  in 
water  the  insoluble  collagen  and  other  gelatinoids  of 
connective  tissue,  tendon,  cartilage,  and  bone  are 
changed  to  gelatin,  soluble  in  hot  water.  ^ 

But  will  hot  water  best  draw  out  the  meat  juice? 
How  may  we  contrive  to  extract  all  possible  food  value 
from  both  meat  and  bone  ?  And  how  may  we  also  give 
to  soup  that  rich  flavor  produced  only  by  heating  meat 
to  above  212¬∞  F.?  All  these  points  must  be  considered 
if  we  mean  to  make  the  best  possible  soup  out  of  our 
materials. 

285.  The  soup-kettle  or  stock-pot.  ‚Äî  Have  for  stock- 
making  a  deep  kettle  with  a  tight-fitting  cover;  the 
tighter  the  cover  the  smaller  is  the  amount  of  water 
lost  by  evaporation.  In  an  ordinary  kettle,  stock  may, 
during  cooking,  lessen  by  one-half;  in  a  soup-digester 
with  a  steam-tight,  valved  cover,  evaporation  is  so  slight 
that  one  pint  of  water  instead  of  one  quart  may  be 
allowed  to  one  pound  of  meat  and  bone. 

1  The  change  from  collagen  to  gelatin,  like  that  from  raw  starch  to 
starch-paste,  is  a  process  of  hydration,  i.e.  of  combination  with  water. 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  159 

Fresh  material  may  be  added  to  that  already  in  the 
stock-pot,  provided  that  once  a  week  the  contents  are 
removed  and  the  pot  cleaned.  Fresh  material  must  be 
combined  with  "left-overs"  for  a  satisfactory  stock, 
cooked  meat  alone  yielding  too  little  soluble  material. 
Fresh  herbs  and,  unless  a  varied  stock  of  cooked  vege- 
tables is  on  hand,  a  few  fresh  vegetables  are  required 
for  flavoring. 

286.  Materials  for  soup-stock.  ‚Äî  Put  raw-meat  trim- 
mings cut  off  by  the  butcher,  flank  ends  of  steak,  etc., 
into  one  jar,  bits  of  cooked  meat  and  bone,  except 
mutton  fat,  which  is  rank  in  flavor,  into  another,  first 
rinsing  in  cold  water  pieces  left  on  the  plates  at  table. 
Keep  also  water  in  which  meat  has  been  cooked,  and, 
separately^  because  it  sours  in  about  two  days ‚Äî quicker 
than  meat-liquor  spoils  ‚Äî  the  cooking  water  from  rice 
and  vegetables.  Use  sparingly  that  from  strong-fla- 
vored vegetables,  such  as  onion  and  turnip,  and  do  not 
use  cabbage  or  potato  water  at  all. 

Celery  and  asparagus  water  may  be  used  either  for 
soup-stocks  or  for  cream-of-vegetable  soups.  (Chap. 
VIII,  sect.  3.)  Keep  by  themselves,  and  separate 
from  one  another,  if  possible,  remnants  of  vegetables, 
rice,  macaroni,  etc. 

287.  How  to  choose  soup  meat.  ‚Äî What  sort  of  meat 
shall  we  choose  for  soup-making,  ‚Äî  tender  or  tough, 
with  bone  or  Avithout  ?  What  advantage  has  the  meat 
from  young  creatures  over  that  from  old  ?  Soup  meat 
should  include  some  fat,  because  tlie  cake  formed  by  it 


160   THEOEY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

when  cold,  if  kept  unbroken,  helps   to   preserve   the 
stock. 

Compare  a  cut  from  the  loin  of  beef  with  one  from 
the  leg  (shin).  Compare  a  shin  of  beef  with  a  knuckle 
of  veal  (the  joint  of  a  calf's  hind  leg).  Which  will 
yield  the  most  juice  ?  The  most  gelatin  ?  The  highest 
flavor  ?  Which  of  these  cuts  would  you  expect  to  find 
the  cheapest  ?     Why  ? 

Helpful  Hints  about  making  and  using 
Soup-stock 

1.  Have  all  trimmings  sent  home  by  the  butcher  to 
be  used  in  making  stock. 

2.  On  account  of  its  strong,  fatty  flavor,  avoid  using 
much  mutton  in  stock  containing  other  meat. 

3.  For  white  stock  use  veal,  or  veal  and  chicken  ; 
for  dark  brown  stock  use  beef,  part  of  it  browned  ; 
and  brown  all  the  vegetables.  Caramel  or  Kitchen 
Bouquet  is  used  to  darken  and  flavor  stock. 

4.  Stock  made  without  vegetables  keeps  best  in  hot 
weather.  When  taking  out  a  portion  of  such  stock  for 
soup,  add  for  each  pint  of  it  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  each  vegetable  included  in  the  Directions  for  making 
Soup-stock,  cook  them  in  it  one  hour,  and  strain. 

6.  A  little  salt  helps  to  preserve  stock,  but  it  must 
be  used  sparingly  at  first,  the  stock  growing  Salter  as  it 
lessens  by  evaporation. 

6.  Do  not  try  to  extract  the  last  bit  of  gelatin  from 
bones ;  the  result  will  be  glue,  not  soup. 

7.  If  you  must  use  the  stock  the  day  it  is  made,  skim 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  161 

off  what  fat  you  can,  and  remove  the  rest  as  completely 
as  possible  with  absorbent  paper,  or  with  a  bit  of  ice 
wrapped  in  cloth.  The  fat  hardens  on  the  cloth  and 
can  be  scraped  off. 

8.  Cook  vegetables,  macaroni,  and  other  materials  to 
be  served  in  soup  in  a  small  quantity  of  stock,  and  add 
this  with  them  to  the  portion  to  be  served.  If,  how- 
ever, the  stock  is  weak,  so  that  it  would  be  improved  by 
boiling  down,  cook  this  material  in  the  whole  quantity 
to  be  sent  to  table. 

9.  Stock  used  instead  of  water  in  meat  sauces,  gra- 
vies, and  stews  makes  them  richer.  By  boiling  meat  in 
stock  the  stock  itself  is  enriched. 

In  spite  of  care  in  keeping  soup-stock  below  the  boil- 
ing-point, some  albumin  coagulates,  part  settling,  part 
rising  as  scum.  Skimming  off  this  scum  lessens  the  food 
value  of  the  soup,  already  small ;  soup,  both  skimmed 
and  cleared,  is  a  stimulant  merely,  still,  for  the  sake  of 
appearances,  a  perfectly  clear  soup  is  sometimes  desired. 

To  clear  soup-stock.  ‚Äî  Put  into  a  saucepan  the  stock  to 
be  cleared,  and  into  it  stir  the  whites  and  crushed  shells 
of  as  many  eggs  as  there  are  quarts  of  stock.  Heat  and 
stir  until  it  has  boiled  for  two  minutes ;  then  keep  it 
hot,  without  letting  it  simmer,  for  twenty  minutes,  in 
order  that  the  albumin,  as  it  coagulates,  may  entangle 
every  solid  particle  in  the  stock.  Pour  through  a  fine 
strainer  held  above  double  cheese-cloth  laid  over  another 
strainer.  The  first  strainer  keeps  the  scum  from  clog- 
ging the  cloth. 


162        THEORY   AND    PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Recipes  for  Meat  Soups 

The  following  soups  may  be  made  from  either  cleared 
or  uncleared  stock.  Season  them  to  taste  before  serv- 
ing. For  macaroni  and  vermicelli  soups  beef  stock  is 
preferable  ;  for  rice  and  barley  soups,  mutton  or 
chicken  stock. 

Tomato  soup.  ‚Äî  Add  to  one  pint  of  stock  one-half  can 
of  tomatoes,  stewed  and  strained,  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar. 

Mixed  vegetable  soup.  ‚Äî  {In  whiter.)  To  one  quart 
of  stock  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  each  of  chopped 
onion  fried,  chopped  celery,  and  turnip  either  chopped 
or  cut  with  a  vegetable  cutter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
carrot  prepared  like  the  turnip,  and  one  cupful  of 
cooked  and  strained  tomato.  (^In  summer.)  Omit  the 
tomato  and  onion,  and  add  small  green  peas,  and 
flowerets  of  cauliflower,  asparagus  tips,  or  all  three. 

Noodle  soup.  ‚Äî  To  one  quart  of  stock  add  one -fourth 
cupful  of  noodles. 

Macaroni,  vermicelli,  rice,  and  barley  soups  take  their 
names  from  the  material  served  in  them.  Serve  with 
these  soups  crusty  bread  (plain  rolls,  or  inch  thick 
slices  from  a  French  loaf),  toasted  crackers  buttered, 
or  croutons.  The  dextrin  in  these,  like  the  extractives 
of  meat,  stimulate  digestion.  (Directions  for  Preparing 
Croutons  on  p.  249.) 

288.  Food  value  of  soup  and  soup  meat.  ‚Äî  A  strong 
broth  contains  only  about  Ave  per  cent  of  nutritious 
material.     Soup  as  ordinarily  made  is  weaker  than  this. 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  163 

Yet  soup  has  a  strong  meat  flavor,  while  the  meat  left 
in  the  soup  kettle  is  almost  tasteless.  This  is  because 
the  extractives,  which  give  meat  its  flavor,  pass  wholly 
into  the  stock.  The  extractives,  although  not  nutri- 
tious, stimulate  the  secretion  of  gastric  juice.  The 
combined  stimulating  and  warming  effect  of  soup  pre- 
pares the  stomach  for  solid  food. 

Soup  meat,  if  well  seasoned,  may  be  used  in  cro- 
quettes and  rechauffes  (¬ß  299).  It  is  found  to  be 
better  digested  if  flavored  with  meat  extract,  or  if 
served  after  a  meat  soup. 

What  class  of  foodstuffs  does  gastric  juice  act  upon  ? 
Which  of  these  are  found  in  meat  ?  How  does  the 
gelatin  in  soup  help  to  nourish  the  body  ? 

GELATINE  JELLIES 

289.  Gelatin  extracted  by  steam  under  pressure, 
purified,  and  dried,  is  sold  as  gelatine  i  for  making 
jellies  and  desserts.  One  ounce  of  gelatine  will  stiffen 
from  three  and  one-half  to  four  cupfuls  of  water  in  ordi- 
nary weather.  In  hot  weather  or  on  a  wet  day  more  is 
required;  in  cold  weather,  less.  If  fruit  is  to  be  molded 
in  the  jelly,  use  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  gelatine. 

290.  General  directions  for  using  gelatine.  ‚Äî  First  soften 
the  gelatine  by  soaking  in  cold  water,^  then  dissolve  it 

1  Pronounced  like  gelatin. 

2  Cooper's  gelatine  softens  in  ten  minutes ;  Knox's  requires  at  least 
fifteen ;  some  kinds  take  longer.  Follow  the  directions  on  box. 
Granulated  gelatine  is  more  easily  measured  than  that  in  sheets  or 
shredded.  A  two-ounce  box  of  granulated  gelatine  holds  five  table- 
spoonfuls. 


164   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

in  boiling  water,  hut  never  boil  it.  If  stirred  much 
while  hot  the  gelatine  may  become  stringy  and  refuse 
to  jelly  ;  for  this  reason,  do  not  stir  to  help  sugar  dis- 
solve, but  keep  the  gelatine  mixture  hot  by  setting  the 
bowl  over  hot  water.  Strain  it  through  cheese-cloth  or 
muslin  doubled,  into  a  mold,  and  set  it  away  to  cool, 
in  summer  on  ice.  It  will  jelly  in  from  three  to  six 
hours.  The  larger  the  proportion  of  gelatine  to  liquid, 
the  sooner  it  sets,  but  too  much  makes  the  jelly  taste  of 
gelatine,  and  also  makes  it  tough.  Use  a  mold  of 
earthen  or  enamelled  ware  wet  with  cold  water  just 
before  it  is  filled.  See  that  it  stands  level  while  the 
jelly  is  cooling. 

Recipes  for  Gelatine  Jellies 

Lemon  Jelly 

Gelatine,  1  ounce,  or  if  granulated,  '2)4  tablespoonfuls. 
Cold  water,  }4  cupful.  Sugar,  1  cupful. 

Boiling  water,  2^  cupfuls.  Lemon  juice,  }4  cupful. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water,  add  the  boiling 
water,  then  the  sugar,  and  stir  till  the  latter  is  dissolved. 
Add  the  lemon  juice,  and  strain  through  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  hot  water  and  laid  over  a  wire  strainer  into  a 
mold  wet  with  cold  water. 

To  vary  the  flavor,  boil  in  the  water  one  inch  of  stick 
cinnamon^  and  the  thinly  shaved  peel  (yellow  only)  of 
one  or  two  lemons. 

For  Coffee  Jelly  use  ojie  cupful  of  strong  boiled  coffee} 

1  Made  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee  to  one  cupful  of  water. 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  165 

and  two  of  boiling  water.     Strain  through  a  fine  cloth, 
doubled. 

Serve  these  jellies  turned  out  in  a  glass  dish,  with 
cream,  whipped  or  unwhipped  ;  or  make  them  a  little 
less  stiff,  and  serve  lightly  broken  up,  as  "  Sparkling 
Jelly." 

291.  The  manufacture  of  gelatine.  ‚Äî  Gelatine  is  ob- 
tained by  extracting  under  pressure  the  gelatinous  parts 
of  cleaned  bones,  horns,  hoofs,  and  hides  of  animals. 
The  first  product  strained  off  is  made  into  size  and 
glue  ;  the  rest,  purified  by  treatment  with  sulphuric 
acid,  is  the  gelatine  of  commerce,  which  is  used  not  only 
in  jellies,  but  for  medicine  capsules,  photograph  films, 
and  many  other  purposes.  Gelatine  is  made  also  from 
fish-bones,  and  a  very  pure  kind,  called  isinglass,  from 
the  air-bladder  of  the  sturgeon. 

292.  Digestion  of  gelatin.  ‚Äî  Gelatin  is  more  readily 
digested  than  collagen.  Like  proteids,  gelatinoids  are  changed 
to  peptones  by  the  gastric  and  pancreatic  juices. 

HOW   TO   COOK   TOUGH   MEAT:    STEWING   AND 
BRAISING 

293.  We  have  seen  that  tender  meat  is  cooked  chiefly 
to  improve  its  color  and  flavor,  not  to  make  it  more 
digestible  ;  but  tough  meat  requires  first  of  all  that  its 
connective  tissue  be  softened  to  enable  the  digestive 
juices  to  reach  the  albuminous  matter  within.  What 
substance  in  plant  foods  corresponds  to  connective  tissue 


166   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

in  meat  ?  How  does  this  have  to  be  cooked  ?  By  stew- 
ing, tough  meat  may  be  softened  with  the  least  possible 
sacrifice  of  juiciness  and  flavor. 

Recipe  for  Lamb  Stew 

Breast  of  lamb,      1>^  pounds. 

Boiling  water         about  1  pint. 

Potatoes,  4,  medium-sized,  quartered  and  parboiled. ^ 

Onion,  1,  about  lyi  inches  in  diameter,  sliced. 

Rice,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Tomato,  strained,  1  cupful, 

or 
Tomato  ketchup,  1  tablespoonful. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Brown  the  onions  in  a  little  of  the  fat  in  a  saucepan ; 
put  with  them  the  meat  cut  roughly  into  cube-shaped 
pieces  about  one  and  one-half  inches  thick,  and  sprinkled 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  them  with  boiling  water, 
heat  this  to  the  boiling-point  again,  then  let  it  simmer 
directly  over  the  heat  for  two  hours  ;  or  cook  it  over 
hot  water  for  three  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
After  one  hour  of  simmering  add  the  rice  ;  half  an  hour 
before  dishing  the  stew  add  the  potatoes  ;  when  they 
are  done  remove  the  bones  and  pieces  of  fat,  stir  in  the 
tomato  or  ketchup,  add  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed,  and 
serve. 

How  does  stewing  differ  from  boiling  ?  From  soup- 
making  ?  Why  not  leave  the  meat  whole  ?  Why  not 
cut  it  as  small  as  for  soup  ? 

1  Boiled  by  themselves  for  five  minutes.     Why  is  this  done  ? 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  167 

294.  What  makes  a  stew  good.  ‚Äî  In  a  good  stew 
the  meat  and  vegetables  are  tender,  the  broth  thick 
and  savory.  Onion,  ketchup,  minced  parsley,  tomato, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  or  other  vegetables  and  condi- 
ments may  be  used  to  give  flavor.  Lamb  or  mutton 
stew  may  be  thickened  with  rice  ;  in  beef  stew  flour  is 
commonly  used.  Stew  may  be  served  in  a  platter  within 
a  border  of  boiled  or  steamed  rice. 

295.  For  a  brown  stew,  the  meat  and  sometimes  the 
vegetables  are  browned  in  hot  fat  before  being  simmered. 
A  brown  stew  without  vegetables  is  a  fricassee  (French, 
fricasser^  to  fry). 

Start  a  brown  stew  in  cold  water.     Why  ? 

Dumplings  for  Brown  Beef  Stew.  ‚Äî  Sift  together  two 
cupfuls  of  flour ^  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  enough  77iilk  or  tvater  to 
make  a  stiff  drop-batter.  When  the  stew  is  cooked,  set 
it  where  it  will  boil.  Drop  in  the  dumpling  mixture 
by  tablespoonfuls,  cover  closely,  and  boil  the  broth 
steadily  without  lifting  the  cover,  for  twelve  minutes. 
Boiling  the  meat  for  a  short  time  after  it  is  tender  will 
not  harden  it. 

How  do  dumplings  differ  from  biscuit  ?  Why  is  no 
shortening  used  in  biscuit  ? 

296.  Choosing  stew  meat.  ‚Äî  Stew  meat  should  be  se- 
lected from  a  cheap  cut,  as  higher-priced  meat  is  better 
cooked  in  other  ways  ;  it  should  contain  bone  enough 
to  make  the  broth  gelatinous  and  well-flavored,  also  fat, 
since  lean  that  lies  next  to  fat  is  less  watery  than  an 


168   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

all-lean  piece.  What  cuts  of  beef,  of  lamb  or  mutton, 
and  of  veal,  possess  these  points  ?  ^  (See  table  on  pp. 
180  to  187.)  Part  of  the  melted  fat  may  be  skimmed 
off  before  thickening  the  stew  ;  the  flour  or  rice  will 
absorb  the  rest. 

297.  Braising  is  steaming  meat  in  its  own  juices  in 
the  oven  ‚Äî  a  method  suitable  for  solid  pieces  of  meat 
not  tender  enough  for  roasting,  but  of  better  quality 
than  those  utilized  in  soups  and  stews.  (For  cuts  of 
meat  suitable  for  braising,  see  table.)  The  reten- 
tion of  steam  under  a  cover,  together  with  basting  with 
the  broth,  keeps  the  meat  moist  enough  to  permit  the 
juices  to  flow,  while  the  oven  heat  is  intense  enough 
to  develop  a  rich  flavor  in  both  meat  and  broth. 

Recipe  for  Rolled  Flank  of  Beef     (Plate  X) 

One  flank  steak,  or  one  pound  of  top-round  steak  one-half  inch 
thick. 

Suet,     2  or  3  small  slices.  Carrot,  cubed,  ^/.  cupful. 

Onion,  1  small  one,  sliced.  Boiling  water  or  stock,  1  cupful. 

Stuffing  made  from  :  ‚Äî 

Soft  bread  crumbs,  1  cupful.  Celery  cut  fine,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Melted  butter,    2  tablespoonfuls.   Salt,  y^  teaspoonful. 

Parsley  cut  fine,  2  tablespoonfuls.    Paprika,  }i  teaspoonful. 

Onion  juice,    %  teaspoonful. 

Trim  the  edges  of  the  steak,  spread  over  it  the  stuff- 
ing, roll  and  tie  it,  and  lay  it  on  the  onion  and  carrot 

1  Top  round  of  beef  may  be  larded,  browned,  and  stewed  very 
slowly  for  four  or  five  hours.  Cooked  in  this  way  with  vegetables 
it  is  called  Beef  a  la  Mode. 


PLATE  X. 


Top  Sirloin  ready  for  Roasting. 


a,  \eg  of  mutton  (hind) ;  h,  fore- 
quarter  of  mutton  (rib  porti:):i 
separated  from  shoulder). 


Rolled  Flank  of  Beef,  larded,  braised,  and  arranged  on  a 
Bed  of  Vegetables. 


THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS  169 

in  a  pan,  with  the  suet  on  top.  Pour  the  water  or  stock 
into  the  pan  ;  cook  closely  covered  for  twenty  minutes 
or  more  in  a  hot  oven  ;  then  uncover,  and  cook  thirty 
minutes  longer.  Serve  with  Brown  Gravy  made  from 
the  drippings  in  the  pan. 

The  steak  may  be  larded  instead  of  covered  with  suet. 
Insert  with  a  larding-needle  two  rows  of  salt-pork 
strips  Qardoons)  two  inches  long  and  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick. 

Helpful  Hints  about  Braising  and  Stewing 

298.  1.  Remnants  of  cooked  meat  may  be  stewed, 
either  by  themselves,  or  with  uncooked  meat. 

2.  Only  the  best  portions  of  stew  meat  should  be 
browned  ;  very  coarse  or  gristly  pieces  may  be  simmered 
by  themselves,  and  only  the  broth  added  to  the  stew. 

3.  To  make  sure  that  the  stew  shall  not  boil,  cook  it 
in  a  double  boiler,  allowing  half  again  as  much  time  as 
for  cooking  by  direct  heat.  Stew  meat  that  has  boiled 
may  look  tender  because  its  fibres,  loosened  by  the 
softening  of  the  connective  tissue,  fall  apart;  but  the 
fibres  themselves  will  be  found  hard  to  chew  and  digest. 

4.  In  stewing,  add  water  from  time  to  time,  enough 
to  keep  the  meat  covered.  If  the  broth  is  too  watery, 
boil  it  down  before  pouring  it  over  the  meat. 

5.  Braised  meat  may  be  cooked  uncovered  the  latter 
part  of  the  time. 


170        THEORY   AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

WARMED-OVER  DISHES    (RECHAUFFieSi) 

299.  Delicious  meat  dishes  may  be  prepared  from 
remnants  of  cooked  meat  such  as  thriftless  house- 
keepers throw  away  and  unskilful  ones  warm  over 
carelessly  in  a  frying-pan. 

Learn  to  combine  acceptably  whatever  materials  you 
have  on  hand,  varying  the  regular  recipes  to  suit  the 
case.  For  example,  you  may  substitute  bread-crumbs 
or  macaroni  for  potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes  for  gravy, 
rice  for  macaroni,  and  so  on.  Be  sure  to  make  the  dish 
look  attractive,  and  if  possible  find  for  it  an  appetizing 
name.  Skill  in  using  up  left-overs  provides  many  a 
dainty  and  saves  many  a  dollar. 

300.  How  to  prepare  meat  to  be  used  in  rechauffes. ‚Äî 

Remove  all  bone  and  gristle,  and,  when  the  meat  is  to 
be  hashed,  trim  off  the  fat.  Save  the  bones  for  soup- 
stock,  the  fat  for  trying  out.  Cut  the  meat  in  cubes 
or  thin  slices,  or  chop  it  fine.  If  tender  and  well- 
cooked,  take  care  to  reheat  it  only,  not  recooh  it ;  if 
tough  or  underdone,  simmer  it  until  tender,  saving 
the  cooking  water  to  make  a  sauce.  Season  it  rather 
highly,  since  meat  after  cooling  is  less  savory  than 
when  fresh-cooked. 

Recipes 

Directions  for  making  hash.  ‚Äî  Mix  and  heat  together 
equal  parts  of  cliopped  cooked  meat  and  chopped  boiled 
potatoes.     If  dry,  add  for  each  pint  of  hash  one  tahle- 
1  French,  rechauffer,  to  heat  again. 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  171 

spoonful  of  butter  or  drippings^  and  tivo  of  hot  water  or 

stock.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper^  adding  onion  juice, 

parsley,  or  other  seasoning,  if  desired. 

To  brown  hash,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  milk ;  let  the 

hash  cook  unstirred  till  brown  on  one  side ;   fold  like 

omelet. 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Boiled  corned  beef  (about  oiie-fourth  fat),  1  part. 

Boiled  potatoes,  2  parts. 

Onion  juice,  a  few  drops. 
Pepper. 

Chop  the  meat  moderately  fine,  push  it  to  one  side  of 
the  tray ;  chop  the  potatoes  and  mix  them  with  the 
meat.  Season  and  heat  over  hot  water,  or  in  a  frying- 
pan  over  moderate  heat. 

Minced  meat  on  toast.  ‚Äî  Chop  fine  any  cold,  lean  meat. 
Season,  and  warm  in  gravy  or  sauce  sufficient  to  moisten 
it.  Spread  on  slices  of  crisp  toast  dipped  in  salted 
water.     (¬ß  163.) 

Chartreuse  of  Rice  and  Meat 

Rice,  1  cupful.  Hot  water,  stock  or  gravy 

Cooked  meat,  minced,         2  cupfuls.      enough  to  enable  the  meat 
Bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  %  cupful.       to  be  packed  solidly. 
Salt.     Pepper. 

Other  seasonings  to  taste  ;  e.g.  with  chicken,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  parsley,  fine  cut,  and  celery  salt;  with  veal, 
two  tahlespoonfuls  minced  onion  fried  in  butter,  and  ten 
or  twelve  drops  of  lemon  juice ;  with  mutton  or  lamb, 
fried  onion  and  minced  celery,  or  celery  salt ;  with  beef, 
fried  onion. 


172   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Boil  the  rice.  (For  directions,  see  p.  75.)  Prepare 
and  mix  the  other  ingredients.  Line  a  buttered  mold 
with  a  one-half  inch  layer  of  boiled  rice,  well  pressed 
down ;  pack  in  the  meat  mixture  ;  cover  it  with  rice  ; 
set  the  bowl  in  hot  water,  and  steam  for  about  forty -five 
minutes.  Turn  out  of  the  mold  and  serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce  (p.  151)  around  it. 

Curry  of  Mutton 

To  each  pint  of  finely  chopped  mutton  use  :  ‚Äî 

Butter,  1  tablespoonful.  Salt,  y^,  teaspoonfuL 

Stock  or  water,  1  cupful.  Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Flour,  1  tablespoonful.  Curry  powder,  1  teaspoonful. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  the  butter,  flour,  and  seasoning  ; 
add  stock  or  water,  and  cook  till  thick.  Mix  in  the 
meat ;  when  hot  turn  out  on  a  platter.  Serve  with  a 
border  of  boiled  rice.     (For  Directions,  see  p.  75.) 

Section  2.     Meat:  Cuts,  Marketing-  and  Food  Value 

Here's  to  the  housewife  that's  thrifty. 

‚Äî  Richard  Brinsley  Sheridan. 

The  secret  of  thrift  is  knowledge.  Knowledge  of  domestic  economy 
saves  income  ;  knowledge  of  sanitary  laws  saves  health  and  life. 

‚Äî  Charles  Kingsley. 

301.  Section  1  has  made  us  familiar  with  a  number 
of  cuts  of  beef  and  mutton,  and  with  ways  of  cooking 
them.  In  the  market  we  find  all  these  cuts  and  many 
more  ;  in  order  to  select  wisely  from  them  the  house- 
keeper   must  study  them    until   she   not   only   knows 


THE    FLESH    OF    ANIMALS  173 

one  kind  of  meat  from  another,  and  poor  meat  from 
good,  but  can  readily  recognize  any  cut,  trimmed  or 
untrimmed,  and  knows  the  market  value  and  food 
value  of  each. 

302.  How  beef  is  cut  up  for  sale.^  ‚Äî  Let  us  see  first  in 
what  shape  the  butcher  receives  his  stock-in-trade.  The 
beef-creature  is  sent  to  market  split  into  halves  called 
''sides  of  beef."  These  the  butcher  divides,  first  into 
forequarter  and  hindquarter,  then  into  pieces  (see  Dia- 
gram I,  p.  188),  and  these  into  cuts  to  suit  customers. 
The  weight  of  a  side  of  beef  as  it  hangs  by  the  hind  leg 
throws  the  shoulder-bone  forward  and  the  thigh-bone 
backward,  reversing  the  angles  which,  in  the  living 
animal,  they  make  with  the  back-bone,  and  altering 
the  position  of  the  muscles  attached  to  them. 

303.  Description  of  the  cuts  of  beef. ‚Äî  Upon  severing 
the  forequarter  from  hindquarter  just  back  of  the  ribs, 
we  recognize  on  the  latter  the  small  end  of  the  loin. 
The  first  few  steaks  cut  here  are  short  in  the  flank  and 
have  little  tenderloin  ;  they  are  called  short,  club,  or 
Delmonico  steaks.  Porter-house  cuts  lie  between  these  and 
the  junction  of  the  hip-bone  with  the  spine,  and  the 
sirloin  between  this  joint  and  the  thigh-bone.  In  the 
hollow  of  the  loin  lie  the  kidneys,  surrounded  by  hard 
fat,  the  suet.  A  solid  chunk  of  flesh  below  the  sirloin 
is  known,  queerly  enough,  as  top  sirloin;    the  round,  of 

1  Customs  with  regard  to  cutting  up  meat  vary  somewhat  in  different 
parts  of  the  country.  Diagrams  and  descriptions  in  this  text-book 
follow  New  York  City  customs. 


174   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

which  top  sirloin  is  really  part,  consists  of  the  mass  of 
flesh  back  of  the  hip-bone.  A  streak  of  gristle  running 
down  through  this  portion  divides  it  into  ''  top  "  and 
"  bottom  "  round,  properly  inside  and  outside  round,  but 
called  otherwise  because  the  round  is  always  laid  on  the 
block  inner  side  up.  (Plate  IX.)  The  leg  severed 
from  the  round  at  the  lower  end  of  the  thigh-bone 
furnishes  upper  and  lower  shin.  The  rump,  a  wedge- 
shaped  piece  of  coarse  meat  containing  the  lower 
vertebrae  and  the  end  of  the  hip-bone,  comes  out 
between  the  sirloin  and  round. 

304.  The  most  notable  feature  of  the  forequarter  is 
the  chest  with  its  arch  of  ribs,  the  first  six  of  which, 
counting  forward  from  the  loin,  are,  both  from  quality 
and  from  position,  termed  prime  ribs.  Over  the  seven 
chuck  ribs  lies  the  shoulder-blade,  which  appears  at  the 
seventh  rib  as  a  streak  of  yellow  gristle,  and  grows 
bonier  and  thicker  from  there  forward.  Across  the 
ribs  lies  the  cross-rib,  a  boneless  piece  of  flesh,  corre- 
sponding to  the  top  sirloin  in  the  hindquarter.  The 
diaphragm  inside  the  ribs  forms  the  thin,  coarse  strip 
called  skirt  steak.  The  brisket,  adjacent  to  chuck,  neck, 
and  fore  leg,  includes  the  breast-bone  and  part  of  the 
four  forward  ribs. 

The  muscular  wall  covering  and  supporting  the  crea- 
ture's belly  is  sold  in  sections  (Diag.  I)  as  plate,  navel, 
and  flank.  The  floating  ribs  end  in  the  navel.  The 
flank  includes  the  flank  steak,  a  thin  strip  of  lean  em- 
bedded in  fat. 


PLATE  IX. 


a,  chuck  ;  h,  prime  ribs. 


¬´,  round  of  beef  with  slices  of  top  round  taken  off.    h  ¬´at-bone  sirloin  steak,  trimmed : 
trimmings  shown. 


THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS  175 

305.  Cuts  of  mutton  and  lamb.  ‚Äî  Mutton  and  lamb  are 
usually  quartered  like  beef.  The  loin  is  cut  into  chops. 
Hip  chops,  corresponding  to  sirloin  steaks,  are  sold  as 
loin  chops,  but  are  inferior,  containing  bone.  The  neck 
and  shoulder  sell  cheap ;  the  latter  is  cut  for  roasting 
with  the  fore  leg,  and  if  desired,  with  two  or  more  ribs 
left  on.  "  Leg-of-mutton '^  is  the  hind  leg  together  with 
what  corresponds  to  the  round  in  beef.  A  sheep  be- 
tween two  and  three  years  old  furnishes  the  best  mut- 
ton. The  age  of  mutton  may  be  told  by  breaking  the 
joint  of  the  fore  leg  ;  the  bones  in  a  lamb  are  ridged, 
the  less  distinct  these  ridges,  the  older  is  the  animal. 
By  what  signs  would  you  know  good  beef  ?  Good 
mutton  ? 

306.  Cuts  of  veaL  ‚Äî  Of  the  forequarter  cuts  of  veal, 
the  breast  and  shoulder  furnish  stew  meat  or  second- 
quality  roasting  pieces,  and  the  ribs  are  sold  together 
as  rack  of  veal,  or  separately  as  chops.  As  in  beef,  the 
hindquarter  cuts  are  choicer.  Roasting  pieces  or  steaks 
and  chops  are  cut  from  both  loin  and  leg,  slices  from 
the  leg  being  called  cutlets.  These  contain  a  section  of 
the  round  leg-bone.  Breast  and  leg,  tough  in  the  full- 
grown  animal,  are  tender  in  the  calf.  Hard  mutton-fat 
purified  makes  tallow. 

307.  How  good  veal  looks.  ‚Äî  The  best  veal,  that  of  a 
calf  about  two  months  old,  is  pale  pink  or  flesh-colored, 
with  clear  white  fat.     White  lean  veal  is  unfit  to  eat. 

308.  Cuts  of   pork ;  the    appearance    of   good  pork.  ‚Äî 

The  ribs  and  loin  of  pork  are  sold  for  roasting,  or  as 


176   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

chops.  Hams  are  the  hind  legs,  salted  and  smoked  ; 
bacon,  the  flank  similarly  prepared.  The  thick  layers 
of  fat  on  the  back  and  flank  are  commonly  salted. 
The  strips  or  ''  leaves  "  of  kidney  fat  are  "  tried  out," 
or  rendered,  and  jDurified,  to  make  leaf -lard;  fat  from 
other  parts  of  the  hog  yield  lard  of  poorer  quality. 
Fat  salt  pork  of  good  quality  is  white,  or  faintly  tinged 
with  pink,  and  has  a  thin  rind.  Fresh  pork  should  be 
pale  red  and  firm,  Avith  white  fat.  Trimmings  of  fat 
and  lean  chopped  and  packed  in  cleaned  intestines  form 
sausages. 

309.  Diseased  pork.  ‚Äî  Pork  is  more  likely  than  any  other 
kind  of  meat  to  be  diseased.  Diseased  or  measly  pork  looks 
lumpy  or  speckled.  The  specks  are  coiled-iip  worms  {tri- 
chince),  which  make  their  way  into  the  muscles  of  the  hog, 
remaining  there  inactive  until  taken  into  the  human  body, 
where  they  produce  trichinosis,  a  disease  often  fatal.  Smok- 
ing does  not  kill  trichina,  but  thorough  cooking  kills  this  as 
well  as  other  disease-producing  forms  of  life  in  food.  To 
be  safe,  never  buy  speckled  pork. 

310.  Internal  organs  used  for  food.  ‚Äî  The  tongue,  liver, 
kidneys,  heart,  and  some  other  organs  of  the  ox  and 
sheep  are  used  for  food.  Tripe,  the  lining  of  a  beef's 
stomach,  is  sold  boiled.  The  brains,  pancreas,  and 
thymus  gland  of  calves  are  considered  dainties  ;  the  latter 
two  are  termed  sweet-breads. 

311.  Economy  in  marketing ;  the  cheapest  meat  not  al- 
ways the  most  economical.  ‚Äî  Since  less  than  one-fourth 
of  the  weight  of  a  dressed  beef  consists  of  very  tender 
meat,  these  tender  portions  are  necessarily  expensive. 
The  less  tender  cuts,  being  more  nutritious,  are  more 


THE   FLESH    OF   ANIMALS  177 

economical ;  and,  if  properly  cooked,  are  good  eating, 
better,  indeed,  than  higher-priced  cuts  badly  cooked. 
The  value  of  any  cut  depends  not  alone  upon  the  qual- 
ity of  the  edible  portion,  but  also  upon  the  proportion 
this  bears  to  the  refuse  (bone,  gristle,  etc.).  For  ex- 
ample, prime  ribs  are  even  more  expensive  than  they 
seem,  because  the  purchaser  pays  for  so  much  bone. 
Again,  a  cheap  piece,  containing  much  refuse,  may  be 
less  economical  than  a  higher-priced  one,  all  of  which 
is  eatable.  Veal  is  never  economical.  Being  really  im- 
mature beef,  it  is  dry  and  poor,  both  in  flavor  and  in 
food  value,  notwithstanding  which  it  is  expensive. 

312.  Meat  must  be  kept  to  make  it  tender.  ‚Äî  Recently- 
killed  meat  is  tender,  but  soon  stiffens,  owing  to  the 
clotting  of  certain  proteids  (¬ß  259),  softening  so  as  to 
be  fit  to  eat  only  after  being  "hung"  for  some  time. 
Beef  should  be  kept  at  least  for  three  weeks,  mutton 
longer. 

313.  The  food  value  of  meat.  ‚Äî Because  we  have  teeth 
adapted  to  chewing  both  animal  and  vegetable  food,^ 
and  digestive  juices  capable  of  dissolving  both,  we  be- 
lieve that  a  mixed  diet  is  our  natural  one. '  In  almost 
every  part  of  the  world  flesh  is  eaten,  in  some  places 
the  flesh  of  animals  we  should  not  think  of  using  for 
food.  So  much  is  taste  a  matter  of  custom  that  the 
idea  of  eating  horseflesh  is  unpleasant  to  most  people 
who  have  never  tried  it;  yet  horseflesh   is  perfectly 

1  Vegetable  food  means  all  food  from  plant  sources. 

N 


178   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

wholesome,  and  in  some  parts  of  Europe  is  commonly- 
sold  for  food. 

Practically  all  the  proteids  in  meat  are  assimilated,^ 
but  one-third  or  more  of  the  proteids  of  vegetable  food 
goes  to  waste  in  the  body.  This  is  accounted  for  by 
the  closer  likeness  of  animal  food  to  the  tissues  of  the 
human  body.  Beef  and  mutton  are  grain  and  grass 
made  partly  ready  for  us  by  the  ox  and  the  sheep, 
whose  digestive  organs  are  better  fitted  than  ours  to 
take  care  of  a  purely  vegetable  diet.  Meat-eating 
nations  surpass  in  vigor  those  that  live  mainly  on  fruit 
and  grains. 

American  and  English  people,  however^  are  in  more  dan- 
ger of  eating  too  much  meat  than  too  little.  Meat  three 
times  a  day  is  probably  unnecessary  for  any  one,  and 
hurtful  except  to  people  actively  working  or  exercis- 
ing. Since  only  a  certain  amount  can  be  made  use 
of,  no  matter  how  much  is  swallowed,  the  system  is 
overtaxed  in  getting  rid  of  the  surplus.  Take  care, 
therefore,  that  the  meat  bill  is  not  out  of  proportion 
to  other  household  expenses,  and  that  the  children  are 
not  made  cross,  and  the  men  in  the  family  dyspeptic, 
by  too  free  use  of  this  concentrated,  stimulating  food. 

314.  Red  meat,  such  as  beef  and  mutton,  is  more  stimu- 
lating than  the  ivhite  meat  of  veal  and  poultry.  Beef  is  the 
most  nutritious  of  meats;  mutton  comes  next,  veal  and 
lamb  being  less  nutritious  than  the  flesh  of  full-grown 
creatures.     Corned  meats  lose  in  food  value  by  the  drawing 

1  Assimilation  is  the  taking  up  of  digested  food  into  the  tissues  ; 
assimilate  means  literally  "  to  make  like." 


THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS  179 

out  of  their  juice  into  the  brine  ;  but  dried  or  smoked  meat, 
pound  for  pound,  contains  more  nutriment  than  fresh  meat. 

315.  Digestibility  of  meat.  ‚Äî  Of  the  comparative  diges- 
tibility of  different  kinds  of  meats  little  is  known,  except 
that  some  kinds  digest  much  more  rapidly  than  others.  In  gen- 
eral, short-fibred  flesh,  such  as  that  of  some  kinds  of  game, 
the  breast  of  chicken,  and  the  tenderest  beef  and  mutton, 
remain  in  the  stomach  for  a  shorter  time  than  coarse-fibred 
meats.  The  muscular  tissue  of  heart  and  kidneys,  being 
peculiarly  tough  and  close,  is  hard  to  digest.  Pork  is  too 
fat  to  be  easily  digested. 

316.  Experiment  to  illustrate  the  gastric  digestion  of  meat. ‚Äî 

Put  a  few  bits  of  raw  lean  meat  into  a  test-tube,  and  cover  them 
with  water;  add  a  little  pepsin  and  a  few  drops  of  hydrochloric 
acid.  (¬ß  161  and  footnote.)  At  the  end  of  one  hour  and  a  half, 
and  at  intervals  afterward,  examine  the  meat,  noting  its  gradual 
solution. 

Reading.  ‚Äî  Fulton  Market  is  described  and  pictured  in  the 
American  Kitclien  Magazine  for  January,  1896,  Vol.  IV,  p.  149. 
Home  Economics  contains  a  good  chapter  on  "  Marketing,"  pp.  168- 
201. 

Foods  and  Beverages  gives  pp.  91-114  to  meats.  "Feeding 
the  World"  (p.  277  of  same  book)  is  an  account  of  the  trans- 
portation of  cattle,  grain,  etc.  In  the  Boston  School-kitchen 
Text-hook  the  position  of  the  different  qualities  of  meat  in  the 
animal's  body  is  well  described,  pp.  55-59.  The  Chautauquan  for 
December,  1896  (Vol.  XXIV,  p.  332),  contains  a  description  of  the 
"  Markets  of  Some  Great  Cities." 


180    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


6 

< 

'A 

K 
g 

g 

< 

w 
Oh 

Best  quality  for    roast- 
ing and  broiling. 

'6 
'o 

Xi 
73 

a 

a 
ti 

o 

o 

6 

Lean,  mostly  tender;    fat  on 
edges ;  little  bone.      Sirloin 
steaks :   1,  Hip-bone  sirloin, 
next    to    the    porter-house, 
with  large  tenderloin,  is  the 
best;     2,    flat-bone    sirloin 
second  choice.     Larger  ten- 
derloin, round-bone  sirloin, 
poorest. 

6 

a 

M 

(V 

1 

1 

-a 

o 
H 

eg 
o 

In  slices:   a,  one  to  two 
inches    thick:      Del- 
monico,   porter-house, 
and    sirloin   steaks; 
b,    thicker    slices    for 
roasting. 

Sold  either  whole  or  in 
halves.    In  latter  case, 
aitch-bone  is  split  in 
two. 

o 

1 

Hi     g 

-<   o 
w 

-^ 

Loin. 

All  between  first 
rib     and     rear 
end    of    hip- 
bone. 

.9 

O 

P5 

I 


THE    FLESH   OF  ANIMALS 


181 


Excellent  for  braizing, 
pot-roast,  and  beef  a 
la  mode,  also  for  beef 
juice  and  beef  tea; 
fairly  good  roasted  or 
broiled. 

Pot-roast,  soup,  mince- 
meat. 

0) 

o 
y, 

O) 

la 

1-^ 

1 

2 

bD 

.9 
¬ß 

fcX) 

Solid    piece    of    juicy,   fairly 
tender,  lean,  bordered  with 
fat.    Good  meat  has  thick 
piece  of  fat  between  top  and 
bottom  round. 

Similar    to  top  round,   but 
tougher,   has   streaks   of 
gristle. 

f 

o 

1 

a 

Similar  in  quality  to  loin,  but 
has  more  bone  and  no  ten- 
derloin. 

Is 

‚ñÝ'1 

s'g 

S  2 
:;:   c 
2   2 

CO 

Sliced,  or  cut  thick.  Best 
part  of  bottom  round 
sometimes     cut     with 
top  for  dealer's  advan- 
tage. 

Cut  thick. 

In  steaks,  or  for  roasts. 

Sold  in  pieces  containing 
upper  parts  of  two  or 
more    ribs;      may    be 
boned  and  rolled ;  with 
ribs   left   in  is  called 
"standing  roast." 

03 

h 
u 

6 

Round. 

1.  Top:  inside  of 

thigh. 

2.  Bottom:    out- 

side of  thigh. 

Top  Sirloin. 
Between     sirloin 
and  round. 

to    'S 

S  X 

Blade. 
7th,  8th,  and  9th 
ribs. 

182   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


i 

H 

‚ñÝ< 

aJ 
o 

0 

Braizing,  pot-roasting,  or 
stew ;  steaks  broiled. 

! 

1 

'o 

c 

o 
O 

.2 

.2 

o 

M   '^ 

O      M 

3 

6 

45 
fcX) 

O 

S 

w 

CI 

2 

.s 

C/2 

o 
a 

1 

o     . 
>    a- 

Si 

11 

o    ¬∞ 

o    a; 

3" 

o 

a 
o 

0 

ii 

a 

CO 

:.bI 
1:1 

0 

o 
o 

a 

o 
o 

1 
1 

1 

o 
1 

'3 

1 

Ph 

1 

i 
o 

ill 

pq 

9  1 
^  '^  ^ 

Oh 

THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS 


183 


73 

a 
d 

a 

O 
O 

1.  Stewed  or  boiled. 

2.  Rolled    and    braized. 
(Should  not  be  corned, 

because  it  has  no  fat 
or  bone  to  protect  its 
juices.) 

ft 

o 

ft 

6^ 

CO 

03 

1 

2 

a 

z 

o 

a 

3 
O 

o  ^ 

o 

03 

i 

03 

.a" 

5 

t| 

go 

C3     q 

1¬∞ 

.s 

a 
IS 

.a 

Oh 

'3 
OQ 

d 
ft 

^j 

*3 

o 

tl 

o      . 

oT   tn 

i 

s 
1 

'o 

1 

1 

Navel. 
Middle    part    of 
belly. 

Flank,  below  the 
loin. 

1.  Thick  flank. 

2.  Flank  steak. 

125 

O 

o 
o 

o 

1 

Skirt  Steak  (dia- 
phragm) . 
Inside    of    plate 
and  navel. 

184 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


6 

H 

a 
g 

Q 

w 

Roasted  ;  chops  fried. 

Cutlets  fried ;  Jricandeau 
roasted. 

1 

o 

1 

ii 

02 

H 
<^ 

a      r 
< 

o 

.2 

o 

o 

II 

s  t 

w     O 

1  = 

o 

1 

1 

IS 

a 
a 

u 

-d 

H 

d 
o 

'13 
o    s^^ 

.2  ^ 

o  2 

Sliced   into  cutlets  one- 
half  inch  thick,  or  into 
thicker  slices  for  fri- 
candeau. 

o 

1 

q5 
'o 

Oi 

o 

^     6. 
-<     O 

W 

Loin. 
Includes  what  in 
.     beef  is  loin  and 
rump. 

T5 

.2 

0 

5 

o 
M    5   a 

P3 

Shoulder. 
Includes  fore  leg 
and  part  of  ribs. 

THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS 


185 


ai 

.^ 

o 

‚ñÝ9 

'v3 

2 

^ 

^ 

09 

73 

Oi 

i 

‚Ä¢s 

11 

^ 

L 

si 

>^ 

-d 

2 

'^  ss 

1 

o    g 

1 

(¬ß 

CC        1 

^ 

w    a; 

a>    u 

r-i        O) 

to  :3 

¬© 

c3 

-^     w"  13 

"S  -^ 

^ 

.^    Ci-    O 

=5  g 

c3 

¬´ .¬ß  a 

S 

P3 

"o    o    o 

.2  ^  ^ 
B  1  ¬£ 

-t-T  '^ 

2  s 

>5 

1 

s 

o 

0 

o 

si 

o 

fQ 

o 

i^ 

H 

1 

H 

<¬´      -T     C    '*-' 

t2 

u 

'3 

i  o  i1 

1 

A 

o 

" 

2 

¬£  5  o  ^‚Äû 

.9 

4J 

o      . 

1 

i 

'g 

a;    M 

f     o     O     0) 

S 

oT 

¬´! 

'o  ^ 

22^  ¬ß 

3 
A 

H 

^ 

i=l 

^ 

+^ 

‚Ä¢"  qT  s 

¬´*-;      iln      i     rijT 

^4 

^ 

-S  ‚Ä¢'^ 

0^     O     O     ce 

'Sq 

-t^    e3 

¬£      O      a    CD 

di 

^   '^  ^ 

rJ2       05                +^ 

o 

S 

(11 

^     a    QJ 

Q,    O      cc 

CK. 

ay   includi 
four  ribs. 

H   "¬ß  .2  -¬´    ¬© 

‚Ä¢"    ^    73     2 

w    ¬´   fl    g 
¬´¬´   =:   o   2 

2   o   w  "S 

‚Ä¢s   o 

1^  ^ 

e3  ^ 

o  ^ 

m 

J 

iJ 

186   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


6 

S5 

H 

'6 

5 

_s 

‚ñÝd 

w 

^ 

03 

o 

1 

13 

u 

‚ñÝ^ 

O 

0 

<D 

1 

S 

u 
u 
o 

'S 

U 

03 

o 

03 

W 

>‚Äî 1 

^ 

SK 

^ 

2 

% 

S 

1 

w 

W 

OQ 

m 

m 

03 

1 ‚Äî 1 

+J 

+J 

t- 

H 

3 

C¬´ 

d 

03 

‚ñÝ^ 

1 

P  ^ 

M 

d 

^ 

^  s 

T^ 

1  ^ 

03 
U 
03 

03 
O 

‚ñÝd 

3 

a 

g 

TS 

c¬´ 

-< 

33 

03 

3 

i 

M 

03 

Q 

TS 

fl 

^ 

a 
o 

^1 

P5 
o 

‚Ä¢T3 

0) 

m 

‚Ä¢'"  t+-l 

j3 

¬´M 

.     , 

^ 

fcJD 

g 

t-i 

::     o 

o 

13   '5 

03 

CI 
ai 
O 

C 
‚ñ∫J 

M 

m 

c5 

5 

1-2 

Is 

¬£   ft 
fa  a 

li 

i 

Id 
2 

03 

o 

a 

S 

CO 

1  ^ 

03       ' 

o   ^ 

T! 

!!¬´ 

u 

o 

s 

a 

o 

c3 

o   2 

w 

2 

03 

1 

a 

"3 

m 

a 

03 

1^ 

(¬ª 

^  ^ 

o 

bB  S 

03 

^   ^ 

O 

f‚Äî 1     s 

-=; 

03    '^ 

2 

fl 

.SB 

B3      M      9 

o 

0   ^ 

H   S   ¬´2 

fl 

!i5     fc 

SI? 

1 

1 

i 

c3 

CO 

a 

g  s  == 

n 

< 
pq 

IS 

THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS 


187 


Si 

c 

73 

a 

o 

Usually    cured,    salted, 
and      smoked,       then 
boiled,  or  sliced    and 
fried;    sometimes 
roasted  fresh. 

o 

fcJO    CD 

o  ^ 

Cured,    salted,    and 
smoked;    cooked   like 
ham.      Sometimes 
roasted  fresh. 

Cured,    salted,    and 
smoked ;     broiled     or 
fried. 

Nearly  all  bone. 

Solid,  lean,  with  layer  of  fat 
half  an  inch  thick  or  more, 
on  one  side. 

5 

< 

o 

CO 

1 

a 

h 

a     bJC 

a 
a 

0) 

o 

CO 
CO 

1 

Sold  whole  or  in  chops. 

Whole,    in     halves,    or 
sliced    (after    being 
smoked) . 

B 

a 

2  ^ 

¬∞¬∞      C¬ß 

'o  '3 

In     rectangular    pieces, 
with    the   skin   (rind) 
left  on  ;  sliced  thin  for 
purchasers. 

Spare-ribs. 
Ribs  freed    from 
fat. 

Ham. 
Hind    leg,    and 
parts   corre- 
sponding to 
rump      and 
round  in  beef. 

Back. 
Close     to     back- 
bone. 

bio 

i 
is 

SI 

o   a 
a  -^ 

188        THEOKY  AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 


Diagram  showing  Cuts  of  Beef. 


1  and  2  =loin  (1  =  sirloin). 
8=  rump. 

4  =  round. 

5  =  top  sirloin. 


6  =  prime  ribs. 

7  =  blade. 

8  =  chuck. 

9  =  neck. 


10  =  brisket. 

11  =  cross-rib. 

12  =  plate. 

13  =  navel. 


14  =  flank. 

15  =  shoulder. 

16  =  leg  (shin). 


THE   FLESH    OF    ANIMALS 


189 


Diagram  showing  Cuts  of  Veal. 


1  =loin. 

2  =  leg  (cutlets,  etc.). 

3  =  knuckle. 

4  =  rack. 


5  =  shoulder. 

6  =  neck. 

7,  7  =  breast. 


190   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


Diagram  showing  Cuts  of  Lamb  and  Mutton. 


1  =  l()in. 

2  =  leg. 


3  =  rib-portion. 

4  =  shoulder. 


5,5  = 


THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS  191 


Diagram  showing  Cuts  of  Pork, 

l=loin.  3  =  back.  5  =  belly. 

2  =  ham.  4  =  shoulder. 


192        THEORY  AND    PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Section  3.    Poultry  and  Game 

317.  Of  the  birds  we  use  for  food,  fowls  and  chick- 
ens, turkej^s,  and  tame  ducks  and  geese  are  classed 
together  as  poultry ;  quail,  partridges,  grouse,  wild 
ducks  and  geese,  and  other  wild  fowl  being  called 
game. 

318.  Food  value  and  digestibility  of  poultry  and  game. 

‚Äî  The  flesh  of  ducks  and  geese,  like  pork,  is  so  fat  that 
it  is  not  easily  digested.  Of  what  use  is  fat  in  the 
bodies  of  waterfowl  ?  Game  is  too  expensive  to  be 
eaten  as  commonly  as  meat,  fish,  or  poultry.  Being, 
except  in  the  case  of  wild  ducks  and  geese,  more  read- 
ily digestible  than  other  flesh  foods,  it  is  especially 
suitable  for  the  sick. 

The  light  meat  from  the  breasts  of  poultry  is  tender, 
but  poorer  in  flavor,  than  the  less  delicate  meat  from 
the  leg  and  hip-joint,  or  "  second  joint,"  a  difference 
corresponding  to  that  between  the  loin  of  beef  and  the 
shin  and  round.  The  delicacy  of  the  breast-meat  is 
owing  partly  to  the  shortness  of  its  muscle-fibres,  and 
the  comparative  toughness  of  the  "  drumsticks "  to 
strong  tendons  running  through  them.  Why  is  the 
meat  on  the  wings  of  domestic  fowls  so  much  more 
tender  than  that  on  the  legs  ?  Wild  fowl  have  dark, 
rich  meat  on  breast  and  wings.     Can  you  explain  why  ? 

319.  Selecting  poultry.  ‚Äî  In  market  terms,  chicken 
not  more  than  five  months  old  is  "  spring  chicken  "  ; 
chicken  over  a  year  old,  fowl.  Full-grown  poultry  is 
finer  in  flavor  than  young  chickens. 

Would  you  choose  fowl  or  spring  chicken  for  broil- 
ing ?  For  f ricasseeing  ?  What  effect  would  stewing 
have  on  the  flesh  of  a  young  bird  ?  On  the  tendons 
of  an  old  one  ?     These  tendons  should  be  removed  if 


THE   FLESH   OF  ANIMALS  193 

the  fowl  is  to  be  roasted,  but  not  if  it  is  to  be  boiled 
or  fricasseed.     What  is  the  reason  ? 

In  a  chicken  or  young  fowl  the  scales  on  the  legs  are 
yellow  and  soft,  and  the  breast-bone  yielding.  How 
do  the  bones  of  young  animals  differ  in  composition 
from  those  of  older  ones  ?  Older  fowls  have  horny 
scales,  a  hard  breast-bone,  thicker  and  yellower  skin, 
and  more  fat.  Pin-feathers,  usually  an  indication  of 
youth,  give  place  to  hairs  as  the  bird  grows  older.  A 
young  cock  is  best  for  roasting. 

A  young  turkey  is  known  by  the  same  points  as  a  young 
fowl.  Good  turkeys  have,  besides,  plump  breasts,  black 
legs,  and  white  flesh.  A  young  cock  turkey  (gobbler) 
has  small  spurs.  As  a  rule,  hen  turkeys  are  best ;  old 
gobblers  are  never  good. 

In  a  young  duck  or  goose  the  windpipe  is  brittle  enough 
to  snap  readily  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  and  the 
feet  are  soft  and  yellow.  Neither  ducks  nor  geese  are 
good  if  more  than  one  year  old. 

320.  How  to  prepare  a  fowl  for  fricassee.  ‚Äî  1.  Cutting 
off  the  Meat.  ‚Äî  Do  not  draw  the  fowl,  but  with  a  small, 
sharp-pointed  knife  cut  the  meat  from  the  skeleton, 
(a)  Cut  the  skin  between  the  legs  and  body ;  bend  the 
legs  back  far  enough  to  snap  the  hip-joints  ;  then  cut 
through  the  flesh  to  these  joints,  taking  off  the  "  second 
joint "  and  "  drumstick "  from  each  side  in  one  piece. 
(Separate  these  after  washing  them.)  (5)  Break  the 
wing-joints,  and  cut  off  the  wings,  (c)  Starting  with 
the  knife  at  a  right  angle  to  the  upper  part  of  the  breast- 
bone, cut  back  as  far  as  the  Aving-joint,  keeping  the  knife 
close  to  the  bone.  This  cuts  out  tlie  wish-bone  with  a 
large  piece  of  flesh,  ((i)  Remove  the  meat  on  each 
side  of  the  breast-bone,  (e)  Cut  the  neck  off  short. 
(/)  Find  on  either  side  of  the  tail  a  pointed  bone,  the 
"side-bone."     Make  cuts  between  these  bones  and  the 


194   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

tail,  separating  them  from  the  back-bone,  and  with  them 
two  strips  of  flesh,  ‚Äî  the  most  delicious  meat  on  the 
fowl.      (^)    Cut  off  the  tail-piece. 

2.  Removing  Organs.  ‚Äî  Holding  the  breast-bone  firmly 
with  one  hand  and  the  back-bone  with  the  other,  tear 
them  apart,  and  take  out  the  entrails.  Remove  the 
oil-bag. 

3.  Washing.  ‚Äî  Wash  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  the 
stripped  skeleton  quickly  in  cold  water. 

Recipe  for  Chicken  Fricassee 
One  fowl. 

Boiling  water  or  white  stock,  1  quart. 
One  small  onion. 

Salt,  2  teaspoonfuls. 

Parsley  cut  fine,  2  teaspoonfuls. 

A  few  sprigs  of  parsley  for  garnishing. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  thirteen  pieces  as  directed  above. 

Brown  the  onion  in  a  little  tried-out  chicken  fat  or 
drippings,  and  put  it  with  the  chicken  meat  and  bones. 
Add  stock  or  water,  and  let  it  simmer  about  an  hour,  or 
till  nearly  evaporated.  Take  out  the  bone,  pour  off  the 
liquid,  and  let  the  meat  and  sediment  brown  delicately, 
stirring  and  turning  the  pieces.  Then  pour  back  the 
liquid,  with  enough  water  or  stock  in  addition  to  make 
two  or  three  cupfuls  in  all.  Add  the  salt.  After  sim- 
mering for  another  hour  the  chicken  should  be  tender. 
Arrange  the  pieces  on  a  hot  platter,  neck  and  tail  in  the 
centre,  breast-pieces  and  wish-bone  on  top  of  these,  sec- 
ond joints  at  one  end  of  the  dish,  legs  crossed  at  the 
other,  and  wings  and  side-pieces  on  either  side.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  and  pour  over 
the  chicken  ;  sprinkle  and  garnish  with  parsley.  The 
fricassee  may  be  served  in  a  border  of  rice. 

321.  Chicken  Stew,  sometimes  called  "White  Fricassee 
of  Chicken,"  is  prepared  like  chicken  fricassee,  except 


THE   FLESH    OF   ANIMALS  195 

that  the  chicken  is  not  browned.  After  removing  the 
chicken,  reduce  the  liquid  to  one  and  one-half  cupfuls^ 
add  07ie  cupful  of  milk,  and  thicken  tvith  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.  Stewed  chicken,  lacking  the  flavor 
of  browned  meat,  is  better  served  on  slices  of  toast  than 
with  the  comparatively  tasteless  rice. 


Section   4.     A   Lesson   in    Digestion,  illustrated   by 
the  Digestive  Organs  of  a  Fowl 

We  live  not  upon  what  we  eat,  but  upon  what  we  digest.  ‚Äî  Meinert. 

322.  The  alimentary  canal  of  a  fowl.  ‚Äî  When  we 
chop  off  the  head  of  a  fowl  we  find  we  have  cut 
through  two  tubes,  one  collapsed,  the  other  kept  circu- 
lar by  rings  of  cartilage.  The  first  is  the  windpipe, 
the  second  the  "  food-pipe,"  called  the  esophagus. 
The  latter  is  part  of  a  long  passageway  through  the 
body,  called  the  alimentary  canal  (from  aliment,  meaning 
food).  To  trace  the  path  of  this  canal,  lay  the  organs 
drawn  from  a  fowl,  as  nearly  as  you  can,  in  the  position 
they  occupied  in  its  body,  the  lungs  folded  around  the 
heart ;  the  gizzard  in  the  arched  space  under  the  lungs, 
with  the  crop  close  beside  the  tube  leading  into  the 
latter ;  the  liver,  with  gall-bladder  attached,  at  the  left 
of  the  gizzard,^  and  folded  partly  around  it ;  the  pan- 
creas, a  slender,  yellow  body,  in  the  first  loop  of  the 
intestine,  behind  and  a  little  below  the  gizzard.  In 
the  fowl  the  intestines  lie  in  closely  packed  coils,  mak- 
ing a  continuous  winding  passage  from  gizzard  to  vent. 
See  from  what  a  marvellous  membrane  they  are  sus- 
pended, filmy  as  gauze,  yet  strong  enough  to  support 
them.  This  is  the  peritoneum.  In  life  another  mem- 
brane, the  diaphragm,  is  stretched  between  the  lungs 

1  I.e.  on  the  right-hand  side  of  the  fowl's  body,  as  it  is  in  life. 


196   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

and  the  organs  beneath  them,  but,  when  torn,  as  it  is 
in  drawing  the  fowl,  it  contracts  to  a  mere  strip,  almost 
impossible  to  find. 

323.  Comparison  of  the  alimentary  canal  of  a  fowl 
with  that  of  a  human  being ;  why  fowls  have  crops.  ‚Äî 
If  we  compare  the  alimentary  canal  of  a  fowl  with  a 
diagram  of  that  of  a  man,  we  shall  find  in  the  latter 
nothing  corresponding  to  a  crop.  Why  the  fowl  needs 
this  organ  is  plain  if  we  examine  its  month  and  the  sac 
taken  from  its  gizzard.  There  are  no  teeth  in  the 
former,  but  in  the  latter  will  be  found  a  number  of 
pebbles.  These  take  the  place  of  teeth;  but  as  food 
swallowed  whole  goes  down  much  faster  than  the  giz- 
zard can  grind  it  up,  the  crop  receives  it,  and  lets  only 
so  much  pass  at  a  time  as  the  gizzard  has  room  for.  In 
other  respects,  however,  our  own  digestive  organs  are 
similar  to  the  fowl's.  Let  us  trace  the  course  of  a 
mouthful  of  food  undergoing  digestion,  recalling  what 
we  have  already  learned  about  the  chemical  changes 
taking  place  in  the  process  (¬ß¬ß  129,  161,  178,  237,  238, 
and  292),  and  using  the  organs  of  the  fowl  to  make  each 
step  clear. 

324.  Food  in  the  mouth  and  esophagus.  ‚Äî  In  the 
mouth  food  is  masticated  (chewed),  and  mixed  with 
saliva  supplied  by  three  pairs  of  glands.  After  being 
swallowed  it  is  squeezed  downward  by  the  contractions 
of  rings  of  muscle  around  the  esophagus,  till  it  drops 
into  the  pouchlike  expansion  of  the  alimentary  canal 
called  the  stomach. 

325.  Food  in  the  stomach.  ‚Äî The  wall  of  the  stomach 
is  of  muscular  tissue,  enclosed  in  a  thin  membrane, 
and  lined  with  another  membrane,  velvety  and  moist, 
that    lies,  when    the    stomach    is    contracted,  in    soft 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  197 

folds.  When  it  is  distended  with  food,  this  lining  is 
stretched  smooth.  In  it  are  the  glands  for  secreting 
gastric  juice,  which  converts  proteids  into  the  more 
soluble  peptones.  By  the  motion  of  the  muscular  wall, 
food  in  the  stomach  is  churned  up  at  the  same  time 
that  the  gastric  juice  mixes  with  it.  As  fast  as  it  is 
reduced  to  the  grayish  pulp  called  chyme,  the  passage  at 
the  right-hand  end  of  the  stomach,  called  the  pylorus 
(meaning  gate)^  opens  to  let  it  out  into  the  intestine, 
where  two  little  ducts  enter,  one  pouring  in  bile  secreted 
by  the  liver  and  stored  in  the  gall-bladder  till  needed, 
the  other,  pancreatic  juice  from  the  pancreas.  This  juice 
contains  three  ferments  (p.  128):  amylopsin^  which 
acts  like  ptyalin,  changing  starch  to  sugar ;  trypsm^ 
which  carries  on  the  work  of  digesting  proteids,  begun 
by  pepsin ;  and  steapsin^  which  splits  fats  into  simpler 
compounds. 1  Bile  seems  to  have  no  particular  effect 
upon  any  foodstuff,  but  other  digestive  fluids  are  ob- 
served to  work  better  when  bile  is  present.  The  small 
intestine  itself  yields  a  digestive  fluid,  of  which  little  is 
known  except  that  it  changes  maltose  and  cane-sugar 
to  grape-sugar  (glucose),  in  which  form  they  are  ab- 
sorbed. The  whole  mass  of  food,  when  ready  for 
absorption,  is  a  creamy  fluid  termed  chyle. 

326.   Absorption  of  food  from  the  alimentary  canal.  ‚Äî 

The  process  of  absorption  is  wonderfully  interesting, 
but  as  the  cooking  of  food  has  no  direct  connection 
with  its  absorption,  that  topic  lies  outside  the  scope  of 
this  text-book.  Cooking  prepares  food  for  digestion; 
digestion  prepares  it  for  absorption.  Some  food  is 
absorbed  into  the  blood  through  the  walls  of  the 
stomach,  but  more  from  the  small  intestine.  It  is  sup- 
posed that  the  molecules  of  which  foodstuffs  are  com- 

1  For  more  about  the  digestion  of  fat,  see  p.  215. 


198   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

posed,  particles  far  too  small  to  be  discerned  by  the 
microscope,  are,  by  the  digestive  ferments,  actually 
split  into  smaller  molecules,  so  that  they  may  pass 
through  the  lining  membrane  of  the  alimentary  canal. 
It  is  to  give  ample  surface  for  absorption  that  the  small 
intestine  is  so  long ‚Äî twenty-six  feet ‚Äî and  that  its  inner 
surface  is  thrown  into  folds  and  covered  with  tiny 
threadlike  projections  called  villi  (singular  villus)  that 
suck  from  the  river  of  chyle  all  that  is  nutritious,  and 
send  it  on  into  the  blood  stream,  leaving  waste  matter 
to  pass  into  the  large  intestine,  and  be  expelled  from 
the  body. 

We  may  think  of  the  alimentary  canal  as  a  water- 
course, at  first  straight,  then  widening  into  a  lake  or 
basin,  then  narrowing  to  a  winding  stream  and  receiv- 
ing tributaries,  and,  at  last,  having  its  current  diverted 
into  innumerable  channels  to  irrigate  the  land  through 
which  it  flows. 


Hi 

Peptones 
formed  ;  milk 
curdled.    (Food 
made  acid.) 
Food  leaves 
stomach  in 
grayish  semi- 
liquid  mass  ‚Äî 
chyme. 

More  sugar 
formed. 

Peptones  and 
simpler  com- 
pounds formed. 
Fats  split  into 
simpler  com- 
pounds and 
partly  emulsi- 
fied. 
Grape-sugar 
formed. 

11 
IP 

II 

11. 

all 

111 

¬ßg.S 

1! 

1 

GO 

i| 

is  2 

‚Ä¢ 

S              *?               ¬´5                          fee 

a 

1 

till 

1.        g        1               - 
^         ^        -                1 

¬´2 

nil  J 

^  <¬ª‚ñÝ        CO  ' 

1 

i                        1            ill 

0^                               o~.S 

ii 

03 
> 

1 

.1 
¬´ 

1 

S3                  pq           i^3 

Organs  tak- 
ing Part  in 
Mkchanical 

Action. 

f.ll 

r- 

HI 

1=1 

PI 

111 

if 
11 

1:1 

II 

69 

^1 

1 

o 

1^ 

3 

o 

o 

ll 

a 

200   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Section  5.  Fish  and  Shell-fish 

Fruit  of  the  wave  !   0  dainty  and  delicious  !  ‚Äî  W.  A.  Croffut. 

327.  In  fish  we  have  a  food  similar  in  general  char- 
acter to  meat,  yet  different  from  it  in  some  ways. 
These  points  of  unlikeness  in  the  fiesh  of  the  two 
classes  of  animals  correspond  to  differences  in  the 
natures  of  the  animals  themselves. 

328.  Fish  proper  are  distinguished  from  shell-fish  by 
being  vertebrate. 

A  Study  of  the  Structure  of  a  Fish 

A.  How  does  a  fish  breathe  ?  Find  the  gills,  ‚Äî  red  fringes  back 
of  the  head.  As  the  water  taken  into  the  fish's  mouth  passes  out 
through  the  gills,  the  air  dissolved  in  it  gives  oxygen  to  the  blood. 
B.  What  covering  has  the  fish  ?  Are  the  scales  attached  at  their 
rear  or  their  front  ends?  Is  there  a  reason  for  this?  Over  the 
scales  lies  a  thin  skin,  often  containing  coloring  matter.  Mackerel, 
butterfish,  and  a  few  others  have  no  scales.  C.  An  air  bladder 
under  the  spine  keeps  the  fish  afloat. 


329.  How  to  know  a  fresh  fish.  ‚Äî  Fish  may  be  tested 
for  proteid,  as  meat  is.  In  a  fresh  fish  the  gills  are  a 
bright  red,  the  flesh  along  the  back-bone  firm  and  elastic, 
the  eyes  bulging  and  bright. 

330.  How  to  clean  fish.  ‚Äî  Wash  the  fish  inside  and 
out  with  a  cloth  wet  in  cold  salt  water,  and  dry  with  a 
clean  towel  kept  for  this  purpose.  If  the  fish  is  to  be 
broiled  or  fried,  cut  off  head  and  tail  and  split  it  down 
the  back;  if  to  be  boiled,  cut  off  the  head  only;  if  to 
be  baked,  leave  whole. 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  201 

331.  Fish  suitable  for  baking  whole.  ‚Äî  Cod,  haddock, 
cusk,  bluefisli,  small  salmon,  bass,  shad,  whitefish. 

Recipe  for  Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish 

Stale  bread  crumbs,  1  cupful.         Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Melted  butter,  1  tablespoon ful.      Onion  juice,         a  few  drops. 
Salt,  Yz  teaspoonful.         Parsley  cut  fine,  1  tablespoonful. 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  This  recipe 
makes  stuffing  for  a  four-pound  fish. 

Directions  for  baking  a  Fish  Whole 

Time.  ‚Äî  Forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 

Fill  the  cavity  with  stuffing,  allowing  it  room  to  swell 
slightly.  Sew  the  slit  over  and  over  with  strong  thread, 
taking  stitches  deep  enough  not  to  tear  out.  If  the  fish 
is  a  dry  one  (¬ß  345),  cut  gashes  crosswise,  and  put  in 
them  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  about  one  inch  long,  or 
insert  the  strips  with  a  larding-needle. 

Skewer  and  tie  the  fish  into  the  shape  of  the  letter  S, 
and  set  it  upright,  surrounded  by  bits  of  salt  fat  pork, 
on  a  greased  fish  sheet  on  a  baking-pan.  Bake  until 
brown,  basting  often.  Serve  with  Drawn  Butter  or 
HoUandaise  Sauce. 

If  you  have  no  fish  sheet,  lay  two  strips  of  cloth 
across  the  pan,  and  lift  the  fish,  when  done,  by  these. 

332.  Fish  suitable  for  broiling.  Sflit.  ‚Äî  Mackerel, 
young  cod,  bluefish,  whitefish,  shad,  trout,  etc.  Sliced. 
‚Äî  Chicken  halibut  and  salmon.  Whole.  ‚Äî Smelts,  perch, 
and  other  small  fish. 


202   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Directions  for  broiling  Fish 

Time.  ‚Äî  For  small  fish,  five  to  ten  minutes  ;  for  large 
fish,  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Use  a  close-barred 
double  wire  broiler.  Grease  it  when  hot  with  salt- 
j)ork  rind.  See  that  the  fish  is  wiped  dry  ;  sprinkle 
it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  not  oily,  rub  it  with 
melted  butter. 

Broil  split  fish  flesh  side  to  the  heat  until  browned  ; 
then  broil  the  other  side  till  the  skin  is  crisp.  Broil 
small  fish  close  to  the  heat,  turning  occasionally.  Turn 
slices  of  fish  often. 

When  cooked,  carefully  loosen  both  sides  of  the  fish 
from  the  broiler,  and  slip  off  on  to  a  hot  platter.  Spread 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  But- 
ter (for  recipe,  see  p.  151),  or  witli  Tartar  Sauce,  and 
garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

333.  Fish  suitable  for  boiling.  ‚Äî  Thick  piece  of  salmon 
or  halibut,  shoulder  of  cod,  whole  small  cod,  haddock, 
bluefish,  etc. 

Directions  for  boiling  Fish 

Time.  ‚Äî Varies  with  fish.    Thirty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

To  the  water  in  which  the  fish  is  to  be  boiled  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  or  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  vine- 
gar. Place  the  fish  on  a  fish-rack  or  a  plate,  or  coil  it  in 
a  wire  basket.  If  on  a  plate,  tie  fish  and  plate  in  a  piece 
of  clean  cheese-cloth.  Any  fish  not  boiled  whole  keeps 
whiter  if  wrapped  in  cloth.  When  the  water  boils, 
lower  the  fish  into  it,  and  let  it  simmer  until  the  flesh 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  203 

se23arates  from  the  bones.  When  nearly  done,  put  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  on  a  platter,  with  Drawn  But- 
ter, Egg  Sauce,  or  Hollandaise  Sauce  either  poured  over 
it  or  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Recipes  for  Fish  Sauces 

Drawn  Butter 

Butter,  yi  cupful.  Water,  \yi  cupfuls. 

Flour,    3  tablespoonfuls.  Salt,  ^     teaspoonful. 

Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Mix  flour,  salt,  and  pepper  with  one-half  the  butter, 
pour  on  the  water,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sauce 
boils.  Add  the  rest  of  the  butter  in  bits,  stirring  until 
it  is  absorbed. 

For  Egg  Sauce,  add  to  Drawn  Butter  two  hard- 
cooked  eggs  chopped. 

Tartar  Sauce 

Lemon  juice,  1  teaspoonful.  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tablespoonful. 
Salt,  X  teaspoonful.    Vinegar,  1  tablespoonful. 

Heat  together  in  a  bowl  over  hot  water  the  vinegar, 
lemon  juice,  salt,  and  Worcestershire.  Brown  the  but- 
ter in  a  frying-pan,  and  strain  it  into  the  mixture. 

334.  Ways  of  reheating  fish.  ‚Äî  1.  Creamed  fish.  Re- 
move the  skin  and  bone  ;  pick  the  fish  into  flakes  with 
a  fork,  and  heat  it  in  Drawn  Butter  or  White  Sauce. 
2.  Scalloped  fish.  Mix  flaked  fish  with  White  Sauce 
and  minced  parsley,  and  bake  it,  covered  with  buttered 


204   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

crumbs,  in  a  baking-dish,  or  in  clam  shells.  3.  Fish 
hash.  Mix  flaked  fish  with  mashed  or  finely  chopped 
potato,  and  heat  it  as  you  would  meat  hash.  The  stuff- 
ing may  be  used  with  the  fish  in  any  of  these  dishes. 

Why  fish  needs  special  care  in  cooking.  ‚Äî  The  muscles 
of  fish  have  large  fibres  and  little  connective  tissue. 
It  is  this  that  makes  fish  break  so  easily. 

Except  for  fish  so  rich  and  oily  that  some  loss  of  flavor 
and  nutriment  can  be  afforded,  boiling  is  a  wasteful  way 
of  cooking  cut  fish.  Vinegar  or  lemon  juice  in  the  water 
hardens  the  fish,  thus  helping  to  keep  it  whole,  and 
saves  some  of  the  albumin,  by  helping  to  coagulate  it ; 
but  any  fish  is  better  steamed  than  boiled. 

What  other  precautions  do  we  take  to  keep  fish  from 
cooking  to  pieces,  or  from  falling  apart  after  being 
cooked  ?  What  effect  has  cooking  on  connective  tissue  ? 
(See  Directions  for  Broiling,  Baking,  and  Boiling  Fish.) 

335.  Food  value  and  digestibility  of  fish :  why  good  for 
brain-workers.  ‚Äî  In  food  value  and  digestibility,  fish  is 
much  like  lean  meat.  As  it  is  less  stimulating,  it  is  es- 
pecially suited  to  the  needs  of  brain-workers,  who  take 
little  exercise. 1  It  is  more  desirable  as  a  means  of  vary- 
ing the  diet  than  as  a  staple  food;  still,  it  is  the  proteid 
food  in  many  coast  towns  where  sea-food  is  cheap  and 
meat  hard  to  obtain. 

Fish  is  hurt  more  than  meat  by  keeping,  so  that  it 

1  There  is  no  truth  in  the  popular  notion  that  fish  supplies  the  brain 
with  phosphorus.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  many  kinds  of  meat  contain 
more  phosphorus  than  fish  does. 


THE    FLESH    OF   ANIMALS  205 

is  nowhere  so  delicious  as  near  where  it  is  caught. 
Fish  kept  too  long  is  watery  when  cooked. 

Fish  containing  little  fat,  and  that  mostly  in  the  liver, 
are  termed  "dry";  their  flesh  is  usually  white.  In 
most  dark-fleshed  fish,  fat  is  more  abundant,  and  found 
throughout  the  body. 

Among  fish  containing  from  6  to  12  per  cent  of  fat, 
are  salmon,  shad,  Spanish  mackerel,  and  butterfish; 
whitefish,  common  mackerel,  and  halibut  have,  as  a  rule, 
between  2  and  6  per  cent;  weakfish,  black  bass,  blue- 
fish,^  cod,  and  haddock  less  than  2  per  cent. 

1  Bluefish  is  an  exception  to  the  general  rule  that  dark-fleshed  fish 
are  oily. 


206   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


1 

5 

-c  S  13 

'd  ^-^ 

-d 

‚ñÝTS 

-d  ^ 

1? 

Baked, 
broiled, 
fried,  boile 

P 

II 

HI 

03    '^    CO 

1 

1^ 

M  ^ 

¬´| 

5 

o 
m 

o 

Small  ones 
whole ; 

large  ones 
by  the 
pound. 

1^ 

'o 

_a5 

o 

o 

1^ 

K 

3 

!‚Ä¢¬ß 

?1 

^1 

(D      02 

be  ^3 

a   a 

¬ß1 

1    05 

a 

2   s 

^    ^ 

!h     :3 

S 
> 

fl 

<1    -w 

03     o 

^1 

o    ? 

<1        '^ 

CI 

?ti 

CO        . 

o  "¬£ 

03 

c  "3 

II 

o   2 

>5 

+^   ^ 

-M    S 

^    d 

-^  3 

o 

1-5 

(M    '^ 

ci  '*-' 

^  S 

<<    CI 

<'^ 

CO 

CI 

row  white  i 
ith  darker  ^ 
h  the  mout 

T3    o 

li 

1 

o 

03 

bX3 

be 

Hi 

‚ñÝa  2  1 

.si 

is 

5 

bX) 

^    03 

‚ñÝe) 

^  :js    <i> 

^    ^ 

3 

n 

W 

‚Ä¢r    o  ^3 

rt    a; 

03 

03 

ght  green,  w 
the  side ;  sp 
ed  barbel  un 

1¬ß 

li 

1 

If  a 

^    .a 

03     t^ 
3      03 

2 

‚ñÝ2  ^ 

11 

7  1.9 

o    o    o 
-3  -d  f^ 

1^ 

^  -d 

Si 

¬´      03 

o 

j¬ª 

'S 

m 

m 

c^ 

Q 

4<i 

'3 

^ 

13 

6 

o 

'73 

03 
o 

o 

THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS 


207 


1  i 

12 

13 

ll 

I5 

si 

ll 

^    CO 

m  ^  A 

2  -6 

2  -^ 

2  -d 

<o 

oj 

xi  -^ 

¬© 

^  a 

~    a 

‚ñÝ^  s 

M    a 

PQ    A 

¬´-& 

^ 

^ 

^ 

PQ    % 

^ 
^ 

M 

ir -^ 

^1   S 

'-'   0 

^-^ 

s  2 

^'¬ß 

w 

k^^ 

^-g 

f^  5 

0    Si 

0  5 

0    S 

H 

^  0  s 

0  s 

0)     o 

-^   0 

-^  0 

<1 

s^  -^  - 

r^         0 

5." 

CO 

10 

^ 

5^  a 

10 

H 

4J      _J 

o    S 

1 

0 

ll 

1- 

1- 

rA 

CO         . 

0  "S 

ll 

^  <2 

a 

9^   a 

¬©    ^ 

Q 

<i  ?1 

CO 

CO 

^    C-1 

<  c, 

^- 

^ 

0^    ^~' 

<J    CI 

fcJO 

bjo 

5 

0 

0  i‚Äî 1 

CO 

a 

a 

a 
a; 

5 

a 

^ 

,a 

^ 

^    ¬© 

Q 

iUD 

eS 

'i 

^ 

1 

^ 

0 

fl 
0 

^ 

ri4 

2 
a 

CS 

g 

a 

CO 

<x>    a 

|l 

42 

T3 

r 

^ 

?2 

^'^ 

w. 

03 

.¬£3 

-s 

w 

iri 

tn 

crt 

-^ 

d 

-i 

¬© 

i^ 

a 

0 

a 

T3 

a 

^ 
^ 

^ 

^ 

208        THEORY   AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 
A  Study  of  the  Structure  of  an  Oyster 

336.  Examine  an  oyster  from  which  the  flat  shell  has  been 
removed.  Has  it  any  bones?  How  is  its  body  protected?  Ob- 
serve the  thin  membrane  (jnantle)  covering  the  oyster ;  its  fringed 
edges  form  the  gills.  Find  on  either  shell  a  blue  spot  showing 
where  the  muscle  is  attached  that  opens  and  closes  the  shell ;  also 
the  dark  spot  on  the  oyster  where  the  liver  is. 

337.  How  the  oyster  lives.  ‚Äî  Oysters,  clams,  mussels, 
and  scallops  are  salt-water  shell-fish  belonging  to  the 
family  of  mollusks^  or  soft-bodied  animals.  Their  shells, 
built  up  of  mineral  matter  secreted  by  the  mantle,  form 
a  sort  of  outside  skeleton.  The  young  oyster  floats 
about,  but  as  its  shell  grows  thicker  and  heavier,  it  set- 
tles down  on  the  sand  or  rocks,  the  half  shell,  or  valve^ 
on  which  it  lies  becoming  rounder  and  deeper  than  the 
one  that  covers  it.  The  oyster  has  neither  head  nor 
limbs,  but  has  a  mouth  near  the  hinge-end  of  its  shell, 
and  two  strong  muscles,  one  to  open  the  shell  to  take  in 
food  and  water,  the  other  to  close  it,  if  a  starfish  or  other 
enemy  comes  by.  Oysters  grow  crowded  together, 
forming  oyster-heds. 

Oysters  spawn  in  summer,  one  individual  laying 
millions  of  eggs  in  a  season.  During  this  period  they 
are  not  good  food.  Like  fish,  oysters  are  cultivated, 
baby-oysters,  called  "seed-oysters,"  being  planted  all 
along  the  Atlantic  coast. 

338.  Experiment.  ‚Äî  Boil  a  little  oyster  liquor.  What  forms 
on  top?  What  foodstuff  do  oysters  evidently  contain?  At  what 
temperature,  and  for  about  what  length  of  time,  would  you  cook 
them? 


THE   FLESH   OF   ANIMALS  209 

339.  Preparation  of  oysters.  ‚Äî  Oysters  are  commonly 
opened  by  the  fish-dealer.  To  clean  oysters,  drain  off 
the  liquor,  straining  it  through  a  wire  strainer  if  it  is 
to  be  used.  Rinse  the  oysters  on  a  colander,  using  only 
half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  to  one  quart  of  oysters^  to 
avoid  washing  away  the  flavor.  With  the  fingers  ex- 
amine the  gills  to  see  that  no  bits  of  shell  are  left  cling- 
ing to  them. 

How  to  serve  raw  oysters.  ‚Äî  Raw  oysters  are  served 
with  lemon  juice  and  red  or  black  pepper  as  a  first 
course  at  dinner  or  luncheon,  or  for  an  invalid.  Ar- 
range six  oysters  "  on  the  half  shell,"  on  crushed  ice  on 
each  plate,  small  ends  toward  the  centre.  Place  a 
quarter  of  a  lemon  in  the  middle  of  the  circle. 

340.  Oysters  as  food :  easily  digestible,  but  not  cheap.  ‚Äî 

Oysters  have  about  the  same  composition  as  milk,  con- 
taining carbohydrate  matter^  which  most  flesh  foods 
lack.  Since  they  commonly  cost  at  least  five  times  as 
much  as  milk,  they  are  clearly  not  an  economical  food; 
but  for  their  flavor  and  ease  of  digestibility  they  are 
highly  prized.  Large  oysters  are,  generally  speaking, 
more  nutritious  than  small  ones.  Oysters  are  commonly 
made  plump  and  white  by  being  put  into  fresh  or  brack- 
ish (half-salt)  water  for  about  two  days  before  they  are 
taken  to  market.  During  this  "fattening"  process  they 
gain  weight  by  taking  in  water,  but  lose  some  of  the 
mineral  matter  that  gives  them  their  salty  flavor,  and 
probably  a  small  quantity  of  other  foodstuffs. 

1  Glycogen  (animal  starch)  in  the  liver. 


210   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Recipes 
Oyster  Stew 

Stewing  oysters,  1  pint.  Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Hot  milk,  1  cupful.  Salt. 

Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Drain  and  rinse  the  oysters,  strain  the  liquor,  and 
heat  the  oysters  in  it  till  their  edges  curl,i  remove  the 
scum,  and  turn  oysters  and  liquid  into  the  hot  milk. 
Add  butter  and  seasoning.     Serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

Scalloped  Oysters 

Oysters,  1  quart,  solid. 

Melted  butter,  >^  cupful. 

Stale  bread  crumbs,  2  cupfuls. 

Salt,  about  1  teaspoonful. 

Pepper,  i^^  teaspoonful  or  more. 

Oyster  liquor,  or  oyster 

liquor  and  milk,  5  or  6  tablespoonfuls. 

Mix  the  crumbs  with  the  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  ; 
spread  one-third  of  them  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
baking-dish  ;  put  in  half  of  the  oysters,  drained  and 
rinsed,  another  layer  of  crumbs  and  the  rest  of  the  oys- 
ters, covering  the  top  with  the  remaining  crumbs.  Pour 
over  these  the  liquid.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in 
an  oven  hot  enough  to  brown  the  crumbs  in  that  time. 

A  grating  of  nutmeg  or  a  slight  sprinkli7ig  of  mace  may 
follow  each  layer,  if  you  choose. 

341.  Lobsters,  crabs,  and  shrimps  are  crustaceans^  that 
is,  animals  consisting  of  jointed  sections,  each  of  which 

1  If  cooked  longer,  they  will  be  leathery. 


THE    FLESH    OF   ANIMALS  211 

is  covered  with  a  hard  shelL  Their  flesh  is  similar  in 
composition  to  that  of  other  fish,  but  tough  and  hard  to 
digest.  It  is  liked  because  of  its  unique  and  delicate 
flavor. 

A  series  of  good  articles  about  fish  begins  on  p.  120  of  Foods 
and  Beverages.  After  examining  an  oyster,  read  about  the  fresh- 
water mussel  in  Cha^Dter  VI  of  Boys  and  Girls  in  Biology. 


CHAPTER   yil 

FUEL  FOODS:    FAT  FROM  ANIMALS  AND  OIL 
FROM  PLANTS 

A  man  too  busy  to  take  care  of  his  health  is  like  a  mechanic  too 
busy  to  take  care  of  his  tools. 

Section  1.    Fats  and  Oils :  "What  they  are  and  "What 
they  are  Good  For 

342.  What  foods  have  we  found  to  contain  fat? 
What  uses  have  we  made  of  fat  in  cooking  ?  What  are 
the  uses  of  fat  in  the  body  ? 

Distinction  between  fats  and  oils.  ‚Äî  We  know  that  fats 
and  oils  are  alike  greasy,  and  that  fat,  by  heating  it,  may 
be  changed  to  oil.  Some  fats  are  soft  and  oily,  others 
firm  and  hard.  An  oil  is  a  fat  that  is  liquid  at  ordinary 
temperatures. 

343.  Most  fats  contain  stearin  and  palmitin,  solid  fatty 
substances,  and  olein,  a  liquid.  Fat  having  a  large  propor- 
tion of  stearin  is  hard ;  the  less  stearin  it  has  the  softer  it 
is.  Oils  consist  chiefly  of  olein,  in  which  some  palmitin  and 
stearin  are  dissolved. 

The  softer  a  fat  is  the  less  heat  it  takes  to  melt  it. 
The  fat  of  some  plants  is  in  the  form  of  oil. 

SouKCES  OF  Fats  and  Oils  commonly  used 
IN  Cooking 

344.  Olive  oil.  ‚Äî  This  oil  is  obtained  from  the  fruit  of 
the  olive  tree.      Olives,  as  we  know  from  seeing  unripe 

212 


FAT  FROM  ANIMALS  AND  OIL  FROM  PLANTS     213 

ones  pickled,  are  about  the  size  of  plums.  Some  varieties, 
when  ripe,  are  purple,  some  green,  others  yellow.  The 
best  oil  is  obtained  from  the  first  pressing  of  fresh,  care- 
fully picked  fruit ;  a  poorer  grade,  from  a  second  press- 
ing ;  and  after  treating  the  mass  of  pulp  with  hot  water, 
a  third  grade,  used  for  soap-making. 

Cottonseed  oil.  ‚Äî  The  best  grade  of  cottonseed  oil  is 
excellent  for  table  use.  Much  is  exported  to  Spain, 
France,  and  Italy  to  be  bottled,  and  resold  in  this 
country  as  "pure  olive  oil,"  at  many  times  its  original 
value. 

Cottonseed  oil  mixed  with  suet  is  sold  as  "  cottolene," 
"  cotosuet,"  etc. 

345.  Butterine  or  oleomargarine  is  made  from  the  olein 
(oily  part)  of  purified  beef  and  pork  fat  churned  with 
milk,  mixed  with  butter,  and  salted  and  colored  as 
butter  is.  Good  butterine  contains  about  25  per  cent  of 
butter,  30  per  cent  of  "  neutral,"  or  lard  oil,  25  per  cent 
of  olein  from  beef,  and  20  per  cent  of  salt  and  cream. 
It  is  clean,  pure,  wholesome,  and  nutritious,  and  so  like 
good  butter  that  no  one  eating  it  can  tell  the  difference. 
Being  cheap  to  make,  it  should  be  sold  cheap  ;  but  un- 
reasonable laws,  designed  to  prevent  its  being  sold  as 
butter,  keep  it  almost  altogether  out  of  the  market, 
while  bad  butter  is  openly  sold  for  far  more  than  it  is 
worth. 

For  an  account  of  butter  and  butter-making,  see  pp. 
97-99  ;  for  lard  and  other  animal  fats  see  section  2 
of  Chapter  VI. 


214   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

346.  ^QQ^B,  particularly  nuts  and  grains,  are  rich  in  oil^ 
some  containing  50  per  cent  or  more,  stored  up,  as 
starch  is,  to  feed  the  seedling. 

Fat  as  Food 

347.  Fat  as  food;   no  diet  well-balanced  without  it. ‚Äî 

Knowing  fat  to  be  a  heat  giver,  we  can  understand  why 
we  like,  in  winter,  foods  containing  more  fat  than  we 
care  for  in  summer,  and  why  arctic  explorers  come  to 
like  whale-blubber  and  walrus  fat.  But  when  we  learn 
that  the  natives  of  even  tropic  India  pour  melted  butter 
(ghee^  over  their  rice,  we  perceive  that  in  any  climate, 
and  under  all  conditions,  men  need  to  eat  some  fat.  In 
a  body  poorly  supplied  with  this,  its  proper  fuel,  pro- 
teid  has  to  take  its  place.  But  proteid  is  costly,  is 
needed  for  tissue-building,  and,  besides,  is  worth  less 
than  half  what  fat  is  as  a  heat  giver.  So  that  in  burn- 
ing proteid  to  keep  up  our  bodily  heat,  we  are  like 
people  who,  storm-bound  on  the  prairies  and  out  of  fire- 
wood, feed  their  stoves  with  furniture  and  even  with 
grain  ;  that  is,  we  use  for  fuel,  material  intended  and 
needed  for  other  purposes,  and  which  we  can  ill  afford 
to  burn.  Girls  often  dislike  fat,  particularly  the  thin, 
delicate  ones  who  most  need  it.  If  possible  it  should 
be  offered  to  them  in  tempting  and  digestible  forms, 
cream  salads  dressed  with  oil,  and  crisp,  fat  bacon.  But 
all  kinds  of  fat  can  be  so  prepared  as  to  be  unobjection- 
able. Some  ways  of  using  it,  however,  are  harmful  to 
health.  To  see  why  this  is  we  must  understand  some- 
thing about  the  digestion  of  fats. 


FAT  FROM  ANIMALS   AND  OIL  FROM  PLANTS     215 

348.  How  fat  is  digested.  ‚Äî  Fats  undergo  much  less 
change  in  the  alimentary  canal  than  either  proteids  or 
carbohydrates.  They  pass  out  of  the  stomach,  indeed, 
in  practically  the  same  state  that  they  entered  the  mouth. 
Even  in  the  small  intestine  they  are  not  dissolved,  but 
are  in  part  emulsified  and  in  part  saponified  (turned  to 
soap)  by  the  pancreatic  juice,  bile,  and  intestinal  juice. 
In  this  process  the  fat  is  divided  into  smaller  and  smaller 
droplets,  till  these  become  tiny  enough  to  be  sucked  up 
by  cells  lining  the  intestine.  From  these  cells  the  fat 
is  passed  on  to  the  lacteals,  fine  tubes  joining  eventually 
in  one  large  one,  the  thoraeie  duct,  which  empties  into 
the  blood  streams.  In  these  it  is  always  found  in  the 
form  of  an  emulsion,  the  milkiness  caused  by  the  sus- 
pended globules  giving  these  little  tubes  their  name 
(¬ß  174). 

Why  fried  food  and  pastry  are  hard  to  digest.  ‚Äî  It  is  easy 
to  see  that  fat  finely  divided  or  mixed  with  other  food 
can  be  made  ready  for  absorption  more  quickly  than  if 
swallowed  in  a  mass.  Perhaps  it  is  for  this  reason  that 
we  instinctively  spread  butter  on  bread  instead  of  eat- 
ing it  by  itself,  and  in  general  prefer  to  take  fat  in  com- 
bination with  other  food.  But  what  happens  if  we 
incorporate  it  so  closely  with  other  food  that  particles 
of  this  are  actually  coated  with  grease,  as  when  butter 
is  allowed  to  melt  and  soak  into  toast  ? 

In  this  case  the  butter,  since  it  is  affected  by  neither 
saliva  nor  gastric  juice,  acts  as  a  seal,  preventing  these 
juices  from  reaching  the  starch  and  other  foodstuffs 
in  the  bread,  which,  therefore,  remain  undigested  till  the 


216   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

fat  is  removed  from  them  in  the  intestine.  The  juices 
here  do  their  best  to  digest  the  bread,  but,  as  they  were 
never  meant  to  do  all  the  work  of  digestion,  and  as  the 
bread  is  constantly  being  pushed  along  past  the  little 
cells  eager  for  it,  but  unable  to  take  it  in  unprepared, 
some  of  it  is  almost  sure  to  be  left  unabsorbed.  With 
pastry  the  case  is  still  worse  ;  for  in  this,  not  only  is 
butter  rubbed  into  the  flour  so  as  to  envelop  the  starch 
granules,  but  so  little  water  is  added  that  the  latter 
cannot  swell  as  they  should  (¬ß  117).  Food  that  has 
soaked  up  fat  in  frying  is  in  much  the  same  state. 

Section  2.    Cooking  in  Pat:  Prying  and  Sauteing 

349.  The  difficulty  of  cooking  food  in  fat  without 
having  it  greasy  makes  this  the  least  desirable  method 
of  cooking.  Nevertheless,  certain  kinds  of  food  are 
good  fried,  and,  if  properly  fried,  need  not  be  unwhole- 
some. 

350.  Experiments  with  heated  fat.  ‚Äî  A.  Take  the  temperature 
of  butter  or  drippings  while  it  is  foaming  and  bubbling  over  the 
fire.  Heat  it  until  it  no  longer  bubbles,  and  take  its  temperature 
again.  Is  it  hotter  or  cooler  than  before  ?  Does  v/ater  stop  boil- 
ing unless  it  is  allowed  to  cool?  Does  it  grow  hotter  after  it 
reaches  the  boiling-point?  Do  you  think  the  fat  was  boiling  when 
it  bubbled? 

351.  Why  we  should  not  speak  of  "boiling "  fat.  ‚Äî  Fats, 
generally  speaking,  burn  before  they  boil.  It  is  water 
contained  in  the  fat  that  makes  it  bubble  when  heated. 
Until  this  water  has  boiled  away,   the  fat  cannot  be 


FAT  FROM  ANIMALS  AND  OIL  FROM  PLANTS     217 

raised  to  a  temperature  much  above  212¬∞,  but  after 
it  lias  all  passed  off,  as  is  shown  by  the  fat  becoming 
still,  the  latter  grows  rapidly  hotter,  rising  to  300¬∞  or 
400¬∞,  some  kinds  of  fat  even  higher. 

352.  Experiment.  ‚Äî  B.  Drop  a  bit  of  bread  into  bubbling-hot 
lard :  after  a  minute  take  it  out.  Continue  to  heat  the  lard  until 
it  smokes  and  is  perfectly  still.  Drop  in  another  bit  of  bread,  let 
it  stay  a  minute,  then  take  it  out.  Break  open  both  pieces.  Which 
piece  has  soaked  up  the  most  grease?  Which  has  browned?  How 
does  a  coating  of  grease  affect  the  digestion  of  food?  How  does 
browning  (carmelization)  affect  the  digestion  of  starch?  Should 
food  be  fried  in  bubbling  or  in  still  fat?  AVhat  makes  the  fat 
bubble  when  the  bread  is  dropped  into  it  ?  How  does  moisture 
affect  the  temperature  of  hot  fat? 

Experiment.  ‚Äî  C.  Heat  butter,  lard,  and  drippings  in  separate 
saucepans.  Which  burns  first?  Which  can  be  made  hottest 
without  burning?  Which  is  best  for  frying?  Which  least 
desirable  ? 

353.  Points  about  frying :  have  the  fat  deep,  do  not  use 
butter.  ‚Äî  These  experiments  show  (1)  that  unless  fat 
used  for  frying  is  hot  enough  to  form  a  crust  on  the 
food  cooked  in  it,  it  will  soak  into  the  food  ;  (2)  that 
so  long  as  it  bubbles  it  is  not  hot  enough  to  form  a 
crust ;  (3)  that  anything  that  cools  the  fat  tends  to 
make  the  food  greasy  ;  (4)  that  the  best  fat  to  fry  in 
is  the  one  that  can  be  made  hottest  without  burning. 

Therefore,  have  the  fat  deep  enough  to  cover  the  food^ 
so  that  it  may  be  crusted  over  at  once  ;  see  that  it  is 
smoking  hot  aiid  still  before  putting  the  food  in ;  reheat 
the  fat  after  each  frying  ;  and  do  not  fry  in  butter. 

Of  common  fats,  butter  is  the  worst  for  frying,  suet 


218   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

(hard  fat)  from  beef,  veal,  and  mutton  next  better, 
drippings  better  still,  and  lard  best  of  all.  Olive  oil, 
which  may  be  heated  to  above  600¬∞,  is  superior  to  any 
of  these.  In  Southern  Europe  it  is  commonly  employed 
for  frying,  but  in  this  country  is  too  expensive  for  such 
use. 

What  reason  is  there  against  the  use  of  butter  for 
frying,  besides  its  low  burning-point  ? 

How   TO    PREPARE   FaT    FOR    USE 

354.  Fats  are  "  tried  out,"  or  rendered^  to  free  them 
from  connective  tissue,  then  clarified  to  remove  water 
and  impurities.  Lard  is  sold  ready  for  use ;  other  fat 
is  usually  tried  out  at  home.  Suet  may  be  bought  for 
this  purpose,  and  all  scraps  of  fat,  cooked  or  uncooked, 
and  drippings  from  beef,  veal,  fresh  pork,  and  chicken  ^ 
should  be  carefully  saved.  Soup  fat  and  drippings 
need  only  to  be  clarified ;  suet  and  scraps  must  first  be 
tried  out. 

To  try  out  fat.  ‚Äî  Cut  the  fat  into  bits,  put  it  into  a 
pan  in  the  oven  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  and 
simmer  it  for  several  hours.  When  the  fat  is  melted, 
and  nearly  free  from  water,  strain  it,  pressing  to  obtain 
all  the  fat. 

To  clarify  fat.  ‚Äî  Melt  drippings  or  tried-out  fat,  add 
to  it  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato,  and  heat  slowly  in  the 

1  The  flavor  of  fat  from  mutton,  lamb,  duck,  goose,  and  turkey- 
prevents  their  being  used  in  cooking.  They  may  be  saved  for  soap- 
grease.  The  fat  from  smoked  meats  may  be  used  for  frying,  if  you  do 
not  object  to  its  taste. 


FAT  FROM  ANIMALS  AND  OIL  FROM  PLANTS     219 

oven  until  it  ceases  to  bubble.  The  potato  absorbs 
some  of  the  impurities  ;  most  of  the  rest  settle  to  the 
bottom.  Strain  the  fat  through  cheese-cloth,  and  let  it 
stand  undisturbed  till  solid.  If  stirred,  it  absorbs 
moisture  from  the  air.  Since  it  keeps  longer  if  left 
unbroken,  it  is  well  to  strain  it  into  cups  or  marmalade 
jars,  so  that  a  portion  may  be  used  without  disturbing 
the  rest. 

355.  Foods  requiring  much  cooking  not  suitable  for  fry- 
ing. ‚Äî  Foods  suitable  for  frying  are  those  made  of 
cooked  material  or  those  that  require  little  cooking ; 
for  example,  croquettes  and  oysters.  Most  raw  food,  in 
order  that  the  outside  may  not  become  too  brown  before 
the  inside  is  cooked,  must  be  put  into  fat  not  quite  as 
hot  as  it  should  be  to  prevent  absorption  of  grease. 
Exceptions.  ‚Äî  Fish  and  oysters,  being  very  watery,  cool 
the  fat  rapidly,  ‚Äî  making  it  therefore  as  hot  for  these 
as  for  cooked  articles. 

Articles  of  food  to  be  fried  are  usually  covered  with 
egg  and  crumbs,  flour,  or  meal,  to  protect  them  from 
absorbing  fat.     Why  is  egg  used  for  this  purpose? 

356.  Testing  the  temperature  of  fat  for  frying.  ‚Äî  When 
the  fat  begins  to  smoke,  drop  into  it  an  inch  cube  from 
the  crumb  of  white  bread.  If  this  becomes  golden 
brown  in  forty  seconds,  the  fat  is  right  for  croquettes 
and  other  articles  made  of  cooked  material,  and  for  fish 
and  oysters.  If  it  takes  sixty  seconds,  it  is  right  for 
fritters,  and  most  other  uncooked  articles. 


220   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

357.  Directions  for  frying.  ‚Äî  Use  a  deep  frying-pan  or 
kettle.  A  wire  frying-basket  to  hold  the  articles  to  be 
fried,  hung  on  a  long-handled  fork,  is  convenient ;  but 
they  may  be  lowered  into  the  fat  and  taken  from  it  with 
a  spoon-shaped  wire  egg-beater.  Put  the  fat  into  a  cold 
kettle,  and  bring  it  slowly  to  the  right  degree  of  heat. 
Have  ready  several  sheets  of  soft  paper  laid  on  a  pan, 
also  a  pan  to  hold  under  the  food  as  it  is  taken  from  the 
fat.  Test  the  fat  ;  if  right,  dip  the  basket  or  wire  spoon 
into  the  fat  to  heat  and  grease  it.  If  a  basket  is  used, 
lay  three  or  four  articles  in  it,  and  lower  them  till 
the  fat  covers  them.  When  they  are  a  delicate  golden 
brown,  lift  the  basket,  shake  it  a  little,  and  let  the  food 
drain  for  a  moment  before  removing  it  to  the  paper. 
Reheat  the  fat,  testing  again  if  necessary,  and  fry 
another  batch  of  articles.  Three  croquettes  can  be  fried 
at  once  in  a  three-quart  saucepan  ;  more  will  cool  the 
fat  below  the  "soaking-point."  When  all  grease  has 
been  absorbed  by  the  paper,  arrange  the  food  on  a  plat- 
ter, and  garnish  it  Avith  parsley  ;  in  the  case  of  fish  or 
oysters,  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Croquettes 

358.  Materials  used.  ‚Äî The  usual  croquette  mixture 
consists  of  two  parts  of  chopped  cooked  meat,  or  cooked, 
flaked,  well-seasoned  fish,  to  one  part  of  thick  white 
sauce.  Cheese,  macaroni,  and  some  kinds  of  vegetables 
may  also  be  used  in  croquettes. 

Shaping  and  crumbing.  ‚Äî  Put  on  aboard  a  heap  of  fine, 
dried  bread  crumbs.     Break  an  egg  into  a  plate,  add  it 


FAT  FROM  ANIMALS  AND  OIL  FROM  PLANTS      221 

to  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  beat  it  enough  to  mix 
the  white  and  yolk.  With  two  spoons,  or  with  spoon 
and  spatula  or  broad-bladed  knife,  shape  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  croquette  mixture  into  balls,  roll  them 
in  crumbs,  shape  them  into  cylinders,  and  with  the  knife 
lift  them  one  by  one  into  the  egg,  dipping  it  over  them 
till  every  bit  of  the  surface  is  covered  ;  roll  them  in 
crumbs  again  till  all  the  egg  is  covered,  and  lay  them 
carefully  on  the  board. 

Recipes 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Cooked  chicken,  chopped  fine,  2  cupfuls. 

Thick  white  sauce,  1  cupful. 

Onion  juice,  1  teaspoonful. 

Grated  nutmeg,  a  few  grains  (about  three  strokes  on  the  grater). 

Additional  salt  and  pepper  according  to  taste. 

Make  white  sauce  for  croquettes  from 

Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls.        Milk  or  thick  cream,  1  cupful. 
Flour,    X    cupful.  Salt,  1  teaspoonful. 

White  pepper,  }i  teaspoonful. 

Add  seasonings  to  the  chicken,  mix  with  the  hot 
white  sauce,  and  turn  on  to  a  platter  to  cool.  When 
cold,  form  into  cylinders  or  cones,  roll  in  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Stick  a  small  sprig  of 
parsley  into  each  croquette  ;  serve  on  a  folded  napkin, 
or  pour  around  them  a  white  sauce. 

Croquettes  may  be  made  of  any  cooked  meat.  Veal 
may  be  mixed  with  chicken.     With  beef  or  lamb  cro- 


222   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

quettes   omit    nutmeg,  and   serve  with  Tomato  Sauce 
instead  of  White  Sauce. 

Savory  Rice  Croquettes 

Boiled  rice,  2  cupfuls.  Salt,       ^  teaspooiiful. 

Eggs,             1,  beaten.  Pepper,  y^  teaspoonful. 

Butter           2  tablespoonfuls.  Cayenne,  or  paprika,  a  few  grains. 

Minced  parsley,  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls. 

If  the  rice  is  cold,  warm  it  with  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  milk.  Mix  the  ingredients,  and  shape  and 
fry  like  chicken  croquettes. 

Potato  Croquettes 

Mashed  or  riced  potato,  2  cupfuls. 
Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Salt,  >^  to  ^  teaspoonful. 

Pepper,  %  teaspoonful. 

Celery  salt,  X  teaspoonful. 

Onion  juice,  10  drops. 

Beat  the  yolk,  mix  it  with  the  potato,  and  add  the 
other  ingredients.  Heat  the  mixture  in  a  saucepan, 
stirring  ;  when  it  cleaves  from  the  side  of  the  pan,  turn 
it  on  to  a  flat  dish  ;  when  cold,  shape  it  into  cylinders 
about  three  inches  long.  Roll  these  in  egg  and  crumbs 
and  fry  them. 

Codfish  Cakes  (Fishballs) 

Salt  codfish,  }4  pound. 

Potatoes,  in  inch-thick  pieces,  2  heaping  cupfuls. 
Eggs,  1. 

Butter,  ^  tablespoonful. 


FAT  FROM  ANIMALS  AND  OIL  FROM  PLANTS     223 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes.  While  they  are  cooking, 
cover  the  codfish  with  boiling  water  ;  when  this  is  cool 
enough  to  allow  your  hands  in  it,  pick  the  fish  into 
shreds.  Drain  off  the  water,  mix  fish,  potatoes,  butter, 
and  eggs  together,  and  beat  the  mixture  well.  Fry  it 
by  heaping  tablespoonfuls  in  deep  fat,  or  shape  it  into 
balls  or  cylinders  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Directions  for  frying  Oysters 

359.  Prepare  large  oysters  as  directed  in  ¬ß  389 ; 
lay  them  on  one  end  of  a  soft  cloth,  and  with  the  other 
pat  them  dry.  Take  them  one  at  a  time  by  the  gills, 
cover  them  first  with  seasoned  cracker  crumbs,  then 
with  egg,  and  last  with  crumbs  grated  from  loaf.  Fry 
in  fat  hot  enough  to  brown  white  bread  in  forty 
seconds. 

360.  Sauteing,  often  incorrectly  called  "  frying,"  is 
cooking  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat.  It  is  a  slower 
method  than  "  deep  frying,"  less  healthful,  because 
the  food  cannot  be  kept  from  absorbing  grease,  and 
more  wasteful,  on  account  of  the  fat  taken  up  in  this 
way.  But,  as  it  is  sometimes  convenient  to  saute 
potatoes,  liver,  small  dry  fish,  and  a  few  other  kinds 
of  food,  it  is  important  to  know  how  to  do  it  in  the 
best  way. 

Directions  for  sauteing.  ‚Äî  Have  the  pan  hot  enough  to 
hiss  when  the  fat  is  put  into  it,  and  the  fat  hot  enough 
to  hiss  when  the  food  is  put  in.  Cook  the  food  first  on 
one  side,  then  on  the  other.     Use  very  little  fat,  add- 


224   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

ing  from  time  to  time  just  enough  to  keep  the  food 
from  burning. 

The  very  worst  way  of  cooking  food  is  to  put  it  into 
a  cold  or  half-warm  pan  with  grease  enough  to  half 
cover  it,  and  to  let  it  sizzle  and  soak  till  it  is  wanted. 
Much  of  the  sickness  and  death  laid  to  other  causes  is 
really  the  result  of  eating  food  thus  cooked. 

Suggestions  about  using  Fat  in  Cooking 

361.  1.  Beef  fat,  clarified  by  itself,  is  a  good  sub- 
stitute for  butter  in  shortening  bread,  biscuits,  and 
gingerbread.  (See  footnote  to  p.  107.)  It  can  also  be 
used  to  grease  tins. 

2.  Suet  mixed  with  lard  for  frying  improves  its 
flavor,  but  not  its  frying  qualities.  It  should  not  be 
used  alone,  as  it  hardens  quickly,  leaving  a  greasy 
coating  on  articles  fried  in  it. 

3.  Have  articles  to  be  fried  as  dry  as  possible,  and 
not  very  cold.      Why? 

4.  Cautions. ‚Äî Always  loiver  food  gently  into  hot  fat; 
if  dropped  in,  the  fat,  splashing  up,  will  burn  your 
hand,  and  may  fall  on  to  the  stove  and  catch  fire.  If 
this  happens,  or  if  the  fat  in  the  kettle  takes  fire,  throw 
sand  or  ashes  on  it.  With  care  about  spattering  the 
fat,  or  spilling  water  into  it,  which  causes  a  sudden 
burst  of  steam,  there  need  be  no  accidents. 

5.  When  the  frying  is  done,  set  the  fat  in  a  cooler 
place  at  once.  Do  not  strain  it  immediately,  as  it  may 
be  hot  enough  to  melt  the  strainer. 

6.  When  fat  has  become  dark  from  repeated  using, 


FAT  FROM  ANIMALS  AND  OIL  FROM  PLANTS     225 

reclarify  it  with  potato,  or  pour  into  it,  when  cold, 
three  or  four  times  its  bulk  of  boiling  water,  stir  well, 
and  let  it  cool.  Kemove  the  cake  of  fat,  and  scrape  off 
the  sediment  that  will  be  found  on  its  under  side.  Fat 
too  dark  for  croquettes  may  be  used  for  fish.  From 
overheating,  or  many  times  reheating,  it  becomes  unfit 
for  cooking  purposes.  When  you  find  it  does  not 
brown  the  food  well,  use  it  for  soap-grease,  or  throw  it 
away. 

Suggestions  for  reading.  ‚Äî  In  Foods  and  Beverages  read  "Fat 
from  Trees,"  p.  87;  in  Food  Products  of  the  World,  Chapter  XIV, 
"Butter";  Chapter  XVII,  "Vegetable  Fats  and  Oils"  (inclndes 
cocoanut  oil  and  others  not  mentioned  in  this  text-book),  pp.  233- 
237  on  nuts. 


CHAPTER   VIII 

ACID  AND  SALT  SUPPLYING  POODS:    FRUITS 
AND  VEGETABLES 

Section  1.    Fruits 

Purple  grapes  with  autumn  sunshine  hot, 
The  fragrant  peach,  the  juicy  bergamot. 

‚Äî  Longfellow. 

A  Study  of  an  Apple 

362.  Apples  may  be  said  to  be  to  other  fruits  what 
potatoes  are  to  other  vegetables.  But  what  do  we 
know  about  apples?  For  instance,  what  makes  them 
hard?  Grate  and  squeeze  one  as  you  did  the  potato, 
and  you  will  know.  So  much  juice  must  mean  that  the 
apple  is  full  of  water.  Test  it  for  starch  (¬ß  121  D). 
Taste  it.  It  tastes  both  sour  and  sweet.  What  two 
substances  must  it  contain  ?  In  talking  of  the  pulp  of 
the  apple,  as  the  mass  of  juice-filled  cells  is  called,  we 
must  not  forget  that  this  grows  simply  as  a  covering 
for  the  seeds.  Some  fruits  have  stones  enclosing  their 
seeds.  How  many  stone  fruits  can  you  name?  In 
some  others  the  seeds  are  scattered  through  the  pulp. 
This  is  true  of  some  foods  not  commonly  called  fruits 
‚Äî  for  example,  the  tomato,  the  squash,  the  cocoa  bean. 

226 


ACID  AND   SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  227 

363.  Definition  of  fruit;  popular  use  of  the  term.  ‚Äî In 

the  broad  sense,  all  seed-vessels  are  fruits.  This  defini- 
tion covers  nuts,  grains,  and  many  vegetables ;  but  we 
commonly  class  as  fruits  those  seed-vessels  eaten  with 
sugar,  or  as  a  dessert ;  and  as  vegetables,  those  served 
with  meat  or  in  salads.  Fifty  years  ago,  when  it  was 
the  custom  to  eat  tomatoes  with  cream  and  sugar,  they 
were  doubtless  considered  fruit. 

364.  Composition  and  food  value  of  fruits ;  fresh  fruits. 

‚Äî  Most  fresh  fruits  contain  from  80  to  90  per  cent 
of  water,  and  considerable  cellulose.  They  have  al- 
most no  proteid  or  fat,  and,  Avhen  ripe,  little  or  no 
starch.  Ripening  changes  their  starch  to  sugars  and 
gums.  One  of  these  gums  is  pectin,  a  sort  of  "  plant 
gelatin."  We  shall  learn  more  about  it  when  we  make 
jelly.  Sugar  is  the  only  foodstuff  found  in  any  con- 
siderable quantity  in  fruit.  Apples,  cherries,  pears, 
peaches,  and  oranges  contain,  on  an  average,  about  the 
same  amount  of  sugar  (7  to  14  per  cent)  ;  lemons, 
cranberries,  and  currants,  less  ;  grapes,  bananas,  and 
dried  fruits,  more. 

Excepting  bananas,  fresh  fruits  have  little  food  value. 
We  eat  them  for  their  delicious  taste,  their  refreshing, 
thirst-quenching  juices,  their  organic  salts,  and  mineral 
compounds.  These  last  supply  sodium,  calcium,  phos- 
phorus, and  other  elements  essential  to  pure  blood  and 
sound  tissues. 

365.  Bananas  contain  more  carbohydrates  than  other 
fruits  do.     In  ripe  bananas  these   are   mostly  in   the 


228   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

form  of  sugar  and  gum,  but  the  bananas  in  our  mar- 
kets, like  all  fruits  sold  far  from  where  they  are  grown, 
are  picked  green,  and  never  ripen  as  perfectly  as  they 
would  on  the  tree.  In  this  condition  they  contain  con- 
siderable starch,  and,  therefore,  need  cooking  to  develop 
all  their  food  value  and  flavor.  Pineapples  contain  a 
proteid-digesting  ferment.  Huckleberries  are  indigesti- 
ble and  irritating  unless  cooked.  If  eaten  raw,  they 
must  be  well  chewed. 

366.  Dried  fruits. ‚Äî Dates,  raisins,  figs,  and  prunes 
contain  50  to  75  per  cent  of  grape  and  other  fruit 
sugars.  This  makes  them  really  nutritious.  Prunes 
are  dried  plums ;  raisins,  dried  grapes ;  the  black  cur- 
rants used  in  cake  are  dried  currants  from  Greece  and 
Asia  Minor.  Citrons  belong  to  the  same  family  as 
lemons,  oranges,  grape-fruit,  and  limes.  Citron  and 
currants  are  believed  to  be  quite  indigestible. 

Rules  for  eating  Fruit 

367.  1.  Eat  only  sound,  ripe  fruit.  Unripe  fruit  is 
dangerously  indigestible.  Over-ripe  or  partly  spoiled 
fruit  is  poisonous  from  the  bacteria  it  contains.  The 
cheap  fruit  hawked  about  the  street,  after  it  is  too  far 
gone  for  reliable  storekeepers  to  sell,  is  fit  only  to  be 
thrown  away. 

2.  As  a  rule,  cooked  fruit  is  less  likely  to  cause  sick- 
ness than  raw  fruit.  Fruit  not  quite  ripe  and  fruit 
kept  a  little  too  long  may  be  made  safe  to  eat  by 
thorough  cooking. 


ACID   AND    SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  229 

3.  Fruit  is  most  wholesome  eaten  by  itself,  at  the 
beginning  of  a  meal,  or  as  dessert ;  least  wholesome 
in  pudding  or  pie,  or  after  a  hearty  dinner  that  has 
included  a  dessert  besides  the  fruit. 

4.  Sweet  fruits,  such  as  dates,  bananas,  figs,  are  best 
with  breakfast  cereals  and  other  starchy  foods  ;  acid 
fruits  sometimes  interfere  with  the  digestion  of  the 
starch.  Explain  this.  Dates,  figs,  or  prunes  supply 
all  the  sweetening  needed  with  mush. 

5.  Do  not  eat  peach,  plum,  or  any  other  tough  fruit- 
skins  raw.     It  is  safer  not  to  eat  grape  seeds. 

6.  Eat  moderately  of  raw  fruit,  especially  in  hot 
weather.  Do  not  imagine,  because  it  is  watery  and 
comparatively  innutritions,  that  you  can  safely  eat  it 
in  unlimited  quantities. 

7.  Avoid  taking  milk  or  cream  at  the  same  time 
with  acid  fruits,  particularly  with  oranges  or  cherries. 
What  is  the  effect  of  acids  on  milk  ? 


HOW  TO  PREPARE  AND  SERVE  FRESH  FRUIT 

368.  Fresh  fruit  must  be  clean.  ‚Äî  Fruit  and  vegetables 
exposed  for  sale  on  the  streets  and  sidewalks  gather 
dirt,  besides  decaying  quicker  than  they  would  if  kept 
protected  and  cool.  A  law  requiring  dealers  to  keep 
these  foods  indoors  and  covered  would  greatly  benefit 
the  public.  If  you  find  a  dealer  that  does  this,  make 
it  a  rule  to  buy  of  him.  Till  we  have  such  a  law,  fruit 
bought  in  the  market  must  be  rinsed  or  wiped  clean. 
Rinse  berries  quickly  in  cold  water  and  drain  them  at 


230   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

once.  Soaking  hurts  their  flavor  and  softens  them.^ 
Rinse  grapes  and  other  small  fruits.  Wipe  larger  fruits 
with  a  damp  cloth.  If  you  like  apples  polished,  rub 
them  with  soft  paper.     Wipe  the  down  from  peaches. 

Use  silver  or  wooden  spoons,  silver  knives,  and 
earthen  or  enamelled  cooking  dishes  for  fruit.  What 
class  of  substances  in  fruit  may  form  bad-tasting,  and 
l^erhaps  poisonous,  compounds  with  iron,  steel,  or 
copper?     (¬ß  105.) 

369.  Serving  fruit.  ‚Äî  Fruit,  except  when  warm  from 
tree  or  vine,  should  be  served  as  cold  as  possible.  Never 
leave  fruit  in  the  dining-room  between  meals  ;  keep  it 
cool  and  out  of  the  dust. 

Arrange  it  tastefully,  grouping  the  colors  harmoni- 
ously, if  several  kinds  are  placed  on  one  dish.  In  ar- 
ranging one  kind  by  itself,  lay  on  the  plate  the  leaves 
belonging  to  it,  peach  leaves  under  peaches,  grape 
leaves  under  grapes,  or  use  grape  leaves  with  any  fruit. 
Place  finger  bowls  on  the  table  when  fruit  is  served. 
Fruit  juice  stains  white  napkins. 

370.  Sugaring  fruits.  ‚Äî  Cut  and  sugar  sliced  peaches 
just  before  serving,  as  they  discolor  quickly.  Let  sliced 
oranges,  bananas,  and  pineapples  stand  sugared  for  half 
an  hour.  Sugar  currants,  crush  them  slightly,  and  let 
them  stand  till  the  sugar  dissolves.  Serve  berries  un- 
sweetened, and  pass  powdered  sugar,  or  sugar  and  cream, 
with  them. 

1  Strawberries  are  never  so  good  after  washing.  If  free  from  sand 
and  clean-looking,  they  need  not  be  rinsed. 


ACID   AND    SALT    SUPPLYING   FOODS  231 

371.  Oranges.  ‚Äî  For  breakfast,  oranges  are  served 
whole.  Each  person  cuts  his  orange  in  halves  across 
the  sections,  and  eats  the  pulp  from  these  with  a  spoon. 
To  prepare  sliced  oranges,  peel  them,  pick  off  the  bit- 
ter, indigestible  white  skin,  thrust  a  fork  into  the  cen- 
tre of  the  orange,  and,  with  a  sharp  steel  knife,  slice  off 
the  pulp,  leaving  the  pith  on  the  fork.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar. 

372.  Bananas.  ‚Äî  Bananas  peeled,  scraped,  and  sliced 
may  be  served  mixed  with  sliced  oranges.  Or  serve 
them  by  themselves  with  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice, 
or  with  sugar,  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  cream. 

373.  Muskmelons    and     grape-fruit,  or   shaddocks,  are 

served  as  a  first  course  at  breakfast  or  lunch.  Cut  grape- 
fruit in  two,  loosen  the  pulp  from  the  skin  of  the  sec- 
tions with  a  knife,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  eat  from 
the  peel  with  a  spoon.  Cut  melons  in  two,  remove  the 
seeds,  and  put  a  piece  of  ice  in  each. 

374.  Pineapple.  ‚Äî  To  prepare  pineapple  for  the  table, 
cut  off  the  skin  and  dig  out  the  eyes  ;  then,  holding 
the  pineapple  on  one  fork,  with  another  tear  the  pulp 
into  shreds,  and  cut  or  scrape  the  shreds  off  with  a 
knife,  leaving  the  woody  core  untouched.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar. 

HOW   TO   COOK   FRUIT 

375.  What  effect  will  cooking  have  upon  the  cellu- 
lose in  fruit  ?  Upon  the  starch,  if  there  is  any  ?  Upon 
germs  of  disease  or  decay  ? 


232   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Fruit  loses  some  of  its  sweetness  in  coobing.  All 
fruits,  except  the  sweetest,  require,  when  stewed,  the 
addition  of  sugar.  Figs  and  prunes  are  so  sweet  that 
a  little  lemon  juice  improves  them. 

Directions  for  stewing  fruit. ‚Äî Cut  pears,  apples,  or 
quinces  in  pieces.  Slice  or  shred  pineapples.  Cook 
small  fruits  whole.  Put  into  a  saucepan  half  as  much 
water  as  you  have  fruit.  Add  for  each  pint  of  fruit 
one-fourth  to  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  according  to  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit.  When  the  sugar  and  water  boil, 
put  in  the  fruit.  If  enough  juice  does  not  flow  to 
make  the  syrup  cover  the  fruit,  add  boiling  water  until 
it  does.  When  the  fruit  is  soft,  but  not  mushy,  taste 
it ;  add  more  sugar  if  needed  ;  stir  until  this  dissolves ; 
then  take  out  the  fruit.  If  the  syrup  is  watery,  boil  it 
down  before  pouring  it  over  the  fruit.  Fruit  not  quite 
ripe,  or  hard  fruit,  such  as  quince,  should  be  cooked  in 
clear  water  till  soft,  and  then  sweetened. 

Recipes 

Apple  Sauce 

Prepare  sour  apples,  as  for  stewing.  Put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing, and  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  six  or  eight  apples. 
Cook  till  the  apple  is  very  soft,  stirring  or  beating  to 
make  it  smooth.  If  the  apples  lack  flavor,  cook  an  inch 
of  stick  cinnamon  or  five  or  six  cloves  with  them. 


ACID  AND  SALT  SUPPLYING  POODS    233 

Baked  Apples 

Wash  and  core  large,  sound,  sweet  apples  ;  put  them 
into  an  earthen  or  enamelled  ware  baking-dish.  Put 
one  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar  into  each  cavity,  and 
pour  boiling  water  into  the  dish,  one-half  cupful  for 
each  eight  apples.  Bake  until  soft,  frequently  dipping 
over  the  apples  the  syrup  that  forms  in  the  pan.  Serve 
cold  with  cream  or  milk.  If  the  apples  are  thick- 
skinned,  pare  them  (after  coring,  that  they  may  not  be 
broken  by  knife  or  corer).  If  they  lack  flavor  add  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  cinnamon  to  the  sugar  ‚Äî  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon  to  one-fourth  cupful  of  sugar. 

Pears,  quartered,  are  baked  or  stewed  like  apples. 

Baked  Bananas 

1.  Choose  sound,  ripe  bananas ;  cut  about  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  off  of  each  end,  and  bake  in  an  earthen 
or  enamelled  ware  baking-dish  for  thirty  minutes.  Slit 
open  the  skin,  and  eat  the  banana,  which  should  be 
sweet  and  juicy,  with  a  fork  or  spoon. 

2.  Remove  bananas  from  skins,  lay  in  a  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  and  pour  a  little  cold 
water  into  the  dish.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender. 
Serve  for  breakfast,  or  with  Lemon  Sauce  for  dessert. 
(For  recipe  for  Lemon  Sauce,  see  p.  271.) 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Cranberries,  1  quart.  Water,  1  cupful. 

Sugar,  1  pound. 


234   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  cranberries,  cook  them  slowly 
with  the  water  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  and  press 
through  a  strainer.  Return  to  the  fire,  and  add  the 
sugar,  stirring  until  it  is  dissolved.  Boil  without  stir- 
ring five  minutes  longer,  pour  into  a  mold,  and  let  it 
stand  until  firm  enough  to  turn  out.  Serve  with  poul- 
try, mutton,  or  game. 

Lemonade 

Lemon  juice,  Yz  cupful.  Water,  1  quart. 

Sugar,  1  cupful. 

One  way.  ‚Äî  Mix  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  add  the  water, 
and  stir  until  the  sugar  dissolves,  strain,  and  ice. 

The  best  way.  ‚Äî  Have  the  water  boiling,  pour  it  on  to 
the  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  strain,  and,  when  cold,  ice. 

376.  Rhubarb,  though  not  strictly  a  fruit,  is  so  like 
fruit  in  composition  that  it  may  be  classed  with  it.  It 
can  be  had  in  the  spring  before  fruit  is  plentiful,  yet 
when  we  crave  vegetable  juice  and  acid. 

Rhubarb  Sauce 

Steamed.  ‚Äî  Cut  off  the  leaves.  Wash  the  stalks,  and 
cut  them  into  one-inch  lengths.  To  each  pint  of  rhubarb 
add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  cook  it  in  a  double  boiler 
till  soft.  Add  more  sugar  if  it  tastes  too  sour.  Do  not 
stir  it.     The  pieces  of  rhubarb  should  be  unbroken. 

Baked.  ‚Äî  Prepare  and  sweeten  the  rhubarb  as  for 
steaming.  Cook  it  in  a  deep  dish  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  tender  and  deep-red  in  color. 


ACID   AND   SALT   SUPPLYING  FOODS         235 

377.  Imported  dried  fruits  are  usually  dirty.  Dates  and 
figs  need  rinsing  with  boiling  water,  and  are  better  if 
steamed  or  stewed  in  a  little  water  till  tender.  Stewed 
figs  with  cream  are  delicious.  Select  shrivelled,  dry- 
looking  prunes  ;  plumper  ones  have  been  soaked  to 
make  them  look  well,  and  the  purchaser  pays  for  the 
water  they  have  absorbed. 

Dried  apples,  peaches,  and  apricots,  after  soaking  for 
several  hours  in  water,  are  cooked  like  fresh  fruit. 

Stewed  Prunes 

Prunes,  1  pound.  Sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Lemon,  1,  sHced. 

Wash  the  prunes,  and  soak  them  for  several  hours,  or 
over  night,  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Add 
sugar  and  lemon,  and  cook  them  thirty  minutes,  or  un- 
til soft.  Or  omit  the  sugar,  and  cook  by  moderate  heat 
one  hour  or  longer  to  develop  the  natural  sweetness  in 
the  fruit. 

Reading.  ‚Äî  "The  Cape  Cod  Cranberry"  (illustrated),  in  Har- 
per's Weekly,  Vol.  XLI,  p.  1012,  October  9,  1897 ;  "  The  Grape  In- 
dustry," in  the  Chautauquan,  Vol.  XXIV,  December,  1896 ;  Foods 
and  Beverages,  pp.  169-214;  Food  Products  of  the  World,  Chapter 
XXIV,  pp.  217-233. 

Section  2.    Vegetables 

The  common  growth  of  mother  earth  suffices  me.  ‚Äî  Wordsworth. 
The  secret  of  the  cooking  of  vegetables  is  the  judicious  production 
of  flavor. ‚Äî Ellen  H.   Richards. 

378.  We  eat  as  vegetables  the  fruits,  or  seed-vessels, 
of  some  plants ;  of  others  the  root,  the  leaves,  or  some 
other  part. 


236   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Vegetables,  like  fruits,  contain  mineral  salts  impor- 
tant to  health.  What  salts  are  found  in  potatoes? 
Vegetables  valued  chiefly  for  these  salts  are  frequently 
eaten  raw ;  to  this  class  belong  lettuce,  celery,  cucum- 
bers, and  all  ''salad  plants."  Many  vegetables,  how- 
ever, require  cooking.  If  we  analyze  one,  we  shall  see 
why. 

Study  of  a  Carrot 

379.  Examine  and  analyze  a  carrot  just  as  you  did 
the  potato,  and  make  a  table  showing  its  structure  and 
composition.  Is  it  a  root  or  a  tuber  ?i  Where  is  it 
most  woody  ?  In  the  spring  you  may  be  able  to  get 
both  young  and  old  carrots.  Compare  them.  Which 
has  the  thicker  skin?  The  more  cellulose?  The  cen- 
tres of  very  old  carrots  may  be  too  hard  to  eat.  Do 
carrots  contain  starch  ?  Do  you  know  or  can  you  tell 
from  their  structure  and  composition  which  will  take 
longer  to  cook,  a  potato,  or  a  carrot  of  the  same  size  ? 

Carrots  contain  more  water  than  potatoes  do  ;  why 
are  they  not  good  baked? 

380.  Foodstuffs  in  carrots.  ‚Äî  Carrots  contain  sugar, 
gum,  and  about  one-fourth  as  much  starch  as  potatoes 
do ;  of  the  mineral  compounds  in  them  the  most  impor- 
tant are  potash  salts.  (For  percentage  composition  of 
carrots  and  other  vegetables,  see  table  on  pp.  319-326.) 

1  Roots  of  certain  plants  sometimes  bud  and  sprout.  Scoop  out  a 
carrot  or  a  sweet  potato  for  half  its  length  ;  hang  up  this  carrot  or 
sweet-potato  cup  by  a  string,  and  keep  it  full  of  water.  Sprouts  will 
appear,  but  not  from  regularly  placed  eyes  or  bud-scales,  as  on  pota- 
toes or  other  plant-stems. 


ACID  AND  SALT  SUPPLYING  FOODS    237 

381.  How  plants  and  animals  make  food  ready  for  man.  ‚Äî 

Roots  are  the  feeding  organs  of  plants.  They  suck  up 
water  and  food  from  the  earth.  We  have  seen  that 
cattle  turn  grass  into  beef  and  milk  for  our  use ;  grass, 
grain,  and  every  edible  plant  that  grows,  work  the 
mineral  matter  of  the  earth  into  cellulose,  starch,  sugar, 
for  animals  or  men. 

382.  Analysis  of  Peas. ‚Äî  A.  Rub  some  cooked  green  or  dried 
peas  through  a  sieve,  washing  the  pulp  through  with  water. 
What  is  left  on  the  sieve  ?  B.  Test  for  starch  the  pulp  that  passes 
through.     C.    Analyze  beans  in  the  same  way. 

383.  Vegetables  that  supply  proteid :  peas,  beans,  lentils. 

‚Äî  We  see  that  peas  and  beans  may  be  considered 
starchy  vegetables.  But  they  also  contain  much  pro- 
teid matter,  as  is  proven  by  their  turning  yellow  if 
treated  with  nitric  acid.  In  China  a  kind  of  cheese  is 
made  from  them.  This  fact  makes  the  name  "  vege- 
table casein,"  sometimes  given  to  one  of  the  proteids  in 
peas  and  beans,  seem  appropriate.  Legumin  is,  how- 
ever, a  better  name  for  this  substance.  Although  there 
are  greater  quantities  of  other  proteids  in  peas  and 
beans,"  they,  together  with  lentils,  another  of  the  pulses, 
or  pod-forming  plants,  are  classed  as  legumes. 

Studies  of  Growing  Vegetables 

384.  ‚Äî  1.  Make  drawings  of  a  pea-plant  or  a  bean-plant  at  dif- 
ferent stages  of  growth,  noting  how  the  cotyledons  shrivel  as  the 
seedling  grows.     Explain  this.     (¬ß¬ß  146  and  147.) 

2.  A.  ‚Äî  Cover  half  an  onion  split  lengthwise,  with  warm  water, 
renewing   this   several   times   a   day  to   hasten  the  experiment. 


238   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

What  takes  place  in  the  centre  of  the  onion,  and  at  the  base  of  the 
leaves?  What  becomes  of  the  leaves  as  the  shoot  grows?  Where 
does  the  onion  store  its  food  ?     B.  Test  the  onion  for  starch. 

An  onion  is  a  bulb,  that  is,  an  underground  stem  sur- 
rounded by  overlapping  leaves,  thickened  by  stored-up 
food  material. 

385.  Food  value  of  vegetables  ;  selecting  vegetables  with 
regard  to  food  to  be  served  at  the  same  meal.  ‚Äî  All  vege- 
tables are  valuable  for  their  mineral  salts,  some  furnish 
a  considerable  amount  of  carbohydrates,  a  few  are  rich 
in  both  carbohydrates  and  proteids.  All,  however,  con- 
tain a  large  proportion  of  water  and  comparatively 
indigestible  material.  This  makes  them  suitable  to  eat 
with  concentrated  foods,  such  as  eggs  and  meat ;  for 
this  indigestible  stuff,  consisting  largely  of  cellulose, 
helps  to  fill  the  stomach  and  keep  the  mass  of  food 
loose,  so  that  as  this  turns,  every  part  of  it  comes  in 
contact  with  the  gastric  juice.  The  rough  bits  of  cellu- 
lose are  useful,  besides,  in  stimulating  the  intestines 
to  action,  so  that  their  contents  are  kept  constantly 
moving. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  probably  because  of  the 
cellulose  walls  surrounding  plant  proteids,  that  these 
proteids  are  not  so  completely  digested  as  animal  pro- 
teids ;  so  that  three  ounces  of  green  peas  cannot  be 
counted  on  to  build  as  much  tissue  as  one  ounce  of 
beefsteak,  although  the  quantity  of  tissue-building 
material  supplied  is  in  each  case  the  same.  Peas  and 
beans  may  to  some  extent,  however,  take  the  place  of 


ACID    AND    SALT    SUPPLYING   FOODS  239 

animal  proteid  food.  Lentils,  which  are  much  used  in 
Europe,  are  more  digestible  than  either  peas  or  beans. 

Experiments  show  that  part  of  the  cellulose  of 
carrots,  celery,  and  lettuce  is  slowly  digested  and 
absorbed.  If  tender,  it  is  more  digestible  raw  and 
crisp  than  cooked.  Thus  cooked  cabbage  is  less  readily 
digestible  than  raw,  and  most  indigestible  when  boiled 
till  sodden  and  stringy. 

If  you  were  to  have  both  meat  and  fish  for  dinner, 
would  you  serve  tomato  or  split  pea  soup  ?  What 
vegetables  are  suitable  with  roast  beef  ?  Which  are 
suitable  for  a  meal  at  which  little  or  no  meat  is 
served  ?  Pork  is  fat,  a  fuel  food ;  what  vegetable 
goes  well  with  it  ?  What  sort  of  vegetables  should 
be  served  with  lean  meat  ?  Tomato,  or  a  vegetable 
dressed  with  acid  ‚Äî  pickled  beets  or  cole-slaw  ‚Äî  is 
appetizing  with  fish.  With  delicately  flavored  meat, 
such  as  chicken  or  veal,  do  not  serve  a  strong  vege- 
table like  cabbage.  Custom  prescribes  peas  with  lamb, 
apple  sauce  with  pork  and  goose,  cranberry  sauce  with 
turkey. 

386.  Selecting  vegetables  in  the  market.  ‚Äî  Choose  vege- 
tables that  are  in  season.  Those  forced  in  hot-beds  or 
brought  from  a  distance  are  seldom  equal  to  native 
produce,  garden  grown,  ‚Äî  besides  being  too  expensive 
for  most  purses.  Know  what  each  is  worth  when 
plentiful,  and  you  will  not  be  tempted  to  pay  four  or 
five  times  that  sum  for  it  out  of  season. 

Choose   medium-sized  or   small  vegetables.      Large 


240   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

vegetables  are  usually  old  and  woody ;  they  require 
more  fuel  to  cook  them  than  younger  ones  do,  and  are 
less  nutritious.  A  measure  holds  a  greater  weight  of 
small  vegetables  than  of  large  ones  ‚Äî  one  reason  why 
they  ought  to  be  sold  by  the  pound.  Large  squashes 
and  cucumbers  are  seedy ;  corn  with  large  kernels  is 
tough. 

The  signs  of  freshness  and  good  quality  in  particu- 
lar vegetables  are  given  in  the  table  on  pp.  244-247. 
Stale  or  wilted  vegetables  are  never  economical,  and  are 
likely  to  be  unwholesome. 

If  you  get  your  vegetables  from  the  garden,  gather 
them  while  the  dew  is  on  them. 

387.  Care  of  vegetables.  ‚Äî  Keep  winter  vegetables, 
except  squashes,  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place,  piled  up 
to  exclude  air.  Squashes  keep  better  spread  out  in  a 
rather  warm,  dry  place.  What  grows  on  food  in  the 
damp  ?  Keep  green  vegetables  in  the  refrigerator  or 
other  cold  place  till  used. 

388.  Preparation  of  vegetables. ‚Äî 1.  Fresh.  Wash  all 
fresh  vegetables.  Even  if  they  look  clean,  they  may 
be  spoiled  by  impure  water  used  in  watering,  by  insect 
poison,  or  in  other  ways.  Eggs  of  insects  swallowed 
raw  may  produce  worms  in  the  human  body.  Soak  in 
cold  water  vegetables  not  fresh  from  the  garden.  How 
does  water  affect  wilted  flowers  ?  In  the  same  way  it 
makes  vegetables  firm  and  crisp. 

389.  2.  Dried.  Dried  peas  and  beans  must  be  soaked 
to  restore  the  water  lost  by  evaporation.    Weigh  a  pint  of 


ACID    AND    SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  241 

beans  before  and  after  soaking.  What  do  they  gain  in 
weight  ?  3.  Canned.  As  soon  as  the  can  is  opened, 
turn  out  all  the  contents.  Why  ?  Drain  off  the  liquid 
from  peas  and  beans  and  rinse  them.  Let  all  canned 
food  stand  awhile  to  regain  the  oxygen  lost  by  canning. 
Heat,  season,  and  serve  like  fresh  vegetables. 

HOW   TO   COOK  VEGETABLES 

390.  People  are  not  agreed  on  what  are  the  best  ways 
of  cooking  vegetables.  Too  many  cooks  think  only  of 
getting  them  soft,  without  regard  to  retaining  their 
juices  and  salts.  Vegetables  cooked  in  water  lose  a 
large  proportion  of  their  foodstuffs.  In  carrots  this  loss 
may  amount  to  20  per  cent  of  their  whole  value  when 
they  are  cut  into  large  pieces,  to  30  per  cent  when  they 
are  cut  small.  Cabbage  loses  about  one-third  of  its  food 
value.  Until  we  have  more  accurate  knowledge,  we  can 
only  try  to  make  each  vegetable  palatable,  endeavoring 
at  the  same  time  to  keep  it  as  nutritious  as  possible. 
The  directions  for  cooking  vegetables  given  in  the 
table  on  pp.  244-247  are  based  upon  the  following 
general  rules :  ‚Äî 

General  Rules  for  cooking  Vegetables. 

391.  1.  Cook  vegetables  whole  when  practicable. 
When  not  practicable,  cut  them  into  as  large  pieces  as 
are  convenient.  If  the  cooking  water  is  to  be  served 
with  the  vegetable,  the  pieces  may  be  smaller  than 
would  otherwise  be  desirable. 


242   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

2.  Use  only  as  much  water  as  is  necessary  to  cover 
the  vegetable.  For  small  or  cut-up  vegetables  that  can 
be  stirred,  use  just  enough  to  keep  them  from  burning, 
adding  more  as  this  cooks  away. 

3.  Use  the  cooking  water,  if  palatable,  in  sauces, 
soup-stock,  cream-of -vegetable  soups,  etc.  It  contains 
much  nutritive  matter  dissolved  from  the  vegetables. 

4.  For  vegetables  cooked  whole  or  in  large  pieces, 
keep  the  water  boiling,  that  they  may  cook  in  the 
shortest  possible  time.  Peas,  beans,  and  any  vegetables 
served  in  the  cooking  water  are  better  simmered. 

5.  Green  vegetables  keep  their  color  better  if  cooked 
uncovered.  The  reason  for  this  is  not  known.  Cook 
onions  and  cabbage  uncovered  ;  their  odor  is  less  notice- 
able when  allowed  to  pass  off  continually  than  when 
escaping  occasionally  in  bursts  of  steam. 

6.  The  time  required  to  cook  any  given  vegetable 
depends  upon  its  size,  age,  and  freshness.  Old  beets 
may  be  so  Avoody  that  they  cannot  be  cooked  tender. 
Dried  or  wilted  vegetables  cook  more  quickly  if  first 
soaked  in  cold  water.  Think  of  the  part  water  plays 
in  cooking  starch,  and  explain  why  this  is  so. 

392.  Seasoning  vegetables.  ‚Äî  Use  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt  to  one  quart  of  water.  To  one  pint  of  small, 
cooked  vegetables,  ‚Äî  beans,  peas,  onions,  etc.,  ‚Äî  or  to 
one  pint  of  mashed  or  cubed  turnips,  potatoes,  etc.,  use 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper. 


ACID   AND    SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  243 

393.  Scalloped  vegetables.  ‚Äî  Many  kinds  of  cooked 
vegetables  may  be  scalloped,  ‚Äî  potatoes,  onions,  cab- 
bage, and  cauliflower  being  excellent  so  prepared. 

For  scalloping,  cut  potatoes  into  cubes,  quarter  or 
tear  apart  onions,  separate  the  flowerets  of  cauliflower. 
Cabbage  leaves,  if  not  separated  before  cooking,  must 
be  pulled  apart.  Season  the  vegetable  as  directed 
above,  put  it  into  a  baking-dish,  pour  over  it  Thin 
White  Sauce,  allowing  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  sauce 
to  each  pint  of  vegetables.  Cover  with  buttered 
crumbs,  and  bake  till  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

Ingredients  for  Thin  White  Sauce 

Butter,  2     tablespoonfuls.  Milk,   1  cupful. 

Flour,    \}i  tablespoonfuls.  Salt,    y^  teaspoonful,  or  more. 

Pepper,  }i  teaspoonful. 

394.  Vegetables  served  raw.  Celery.  Use  only  the 
inner  stalks.  Wash  these,  scraping  them  if  not  per- 
fectly white,  cut  off  all  but  a  little  of  the  tops,  and 
soak  in  cold  water  till  crisp.  Serve  them  laid  in  a 
glass  dish.  Cucumbers.  The  seeds  and  coarse  fibres 
of  cucumbers  make  them  one  of  the  most  indigestible 
of  foods.  Soaking  in  salt  water  wilts  them,  increasing 
their  indigestibility.  Pare  them,  cut  thick  slices  from 
the  ends  to  remove  medicinal  salts,  and  slice  thin. 
Radishes.  Wash  and  cut  off  the  tops,  make  cuts  across 
the  tops  of  the  roots  through  the  skin,  and  turn  this 
back  in  points.  Tomatoes.  Peel  and  slice  in  half-inch 
slices.  (See  Preparation  of  Tomatoes  in  table.)  Serve 
very  cold. 


Keep   the    rest 
of  the  water 
to  use  in  mak- 
ing Cream- 
of-Asparagus 
Soup. 

Cooking   in 
salted  water 
wrinkles  and 
hardens  corn. 

6 
00 

Drain,  and  butter. 
Serve  on  strips  of 
toast     moistened 
with     the     cook- 
ing    water     and 
buttered. 

Serve      with  o  u  t 
draining;  sea- 
son  with   butter 
and  i)epper. 

liemove  husks  and 
serve  ears  whole, 
In  a  napkin.     Or 
shave  off"  the  top 
of    the    kernels, 
scrape     out    the 
pulp     with      the 
back  of  a   knife, 
season  with  but- 
ter,  pepper,  and 
salt,   and    reheat 
with  a  little  milk. 

K 
S 

H 

5  .-  .2 

"^  ra 

H 

d 

5 

o 

Q 
O 

a 

Stand  the  asparagus  in 
a    deep    kettle,     and 
pour  in  boiling  water 
to  cover  all   but  the 
tips.  Let  it  boil  tightly 
covered  till  the  stalks 
are  tender.  The  steam 
cooks  the  heads.  Salt 
when  nearly  tender. 

Cook      uncovered      in 
barely  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them. 
Let    this    boil    down 
toward  the  last.     Salt 
when  nearly  done. 

Cook   in    boiling   water 
until,  when  a  kernel 
is    pressed,    no  juice 
flows. 

u 

to 

Cut    stalks    off   as    far 
down    as     they    are 
brittle.       Untie     the 
bunches,  wash  stalks, 
and    retie     them     in 
bunches  right  to  serve 
to  one   person.     Tie 
these  into  one  bunch 
again,  and  stand  it  in 
cold  water  till  put  on 
to  cook. 

-a 

a 
.a 

Take  off  outer  husks  ; 
remove  silk  ;  fold  in- 
ner husks  back  over 
the  ear. 

e 

i'l 

Q 

Stalks  should  be  green  ; 
the  ends  should  show 
that  they  have  been 
recently   cut. 
Keep      standing      in 
cold  water. 

11 

P. 

tcji:  a 

Silk   should  be  brown. 
Tear  husk  open,  and 
see  that  ear  is  filled 
with     well-developed 
kernels.     Try  a  ker- 
nel with  your  nail,  ‚Äî 
sweet      milky     juice 
should  flow.   Remove 
outer  husks  as  soon 
as     it     comes    from 
market.  Cook  as  soon 
as  possible.     Corn  is 
injured  by  keeping. 

i 

‚Ä¢ 

<! 
< 

00 

< 

'5~ 

5 

244 


Tops  of  sum- 
mer beetP 
may  be 
cooked  with 
roots,  and 
served  se])a- 
r  a  t e  1  y  as 
"greens." 

Avoid  trying 
beets  till  you 
think  they 
are  r  e  a 1 1  \ 
done. 

Serve      without 
draining;  sea- 
son   with   butter 
and  pepper. 

Paib   oflf  the   skins 
with  a  dry  cloth. 
Slice  large  beets, 
quarter    small 
ones.      Season 
with  butter,  pej)- 
])er,  and  salt. 

Drain,   and    season 
with  butter,  salt, 
and     pepper,     or 
mi.\    with    white 
sauce. 

For 
young 
beans, 

1  hr. 
For  old 

ones, 

2  to  3 
hrs. 

For 
young 
beets, 
about 

1  hr. 
For  old 
beets, 
4  or  5 

hrs. 

1  a 

Cook  in  barely  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover 
them,  letting  this  boil 
down  when  beans  are 
nearly  cooked.      Salt 
when  nearly  done. 

Cook  in   boiling   water 
till  tender.     Salt  half 
an  hour  before  taking 
from  fire. 

Cook  inner  leaves,  un- 
covered,    in    boiling 
salted  water  till  ten- 
der, but  not  sodden. 

Wash,      pull     off     the 
strings,  and  snap  or 
cut  the  pods  into  inch 
pieces. 

Wash,  taking  care  not 
to    break    the     skin. 
Cut  tops  off  about  two 
inches  above  the  root. 
If   cut    sJiort,    the 
beet    will    lose    color 
and  sweetness. 

Remove    outer    leaves. 
Cut  out  stalk,  and  sep- 
arate inner  leaves,  re- 
moving   any    insects 
found. 

Break  a  pod  ;  it  should 
be    brittle.       Strings 
should    be    delicate, 
and  beans  very  small. 

Choose  those  with  dirty 
roots  and  fresh,  green 
leaves.     If  roots   are 
clean,  beets  have  prob- 
ably wilted  and  been 
freshened  by  soaking. 

Choose  a  hard,  heavy 
one,  with  crisp  white 
leaves,  and  stalk  cut 
close  to  the  head. 

Keep  in  cool,  dark  i)lace. 

it 

r 

i 

% 

CO 

245 


i 

< 

Peas  and  carrot 
cubes    are    a 
good  garnish 
for  meat. 

Save    root    for 
soup     stock, 
water     for 
Cream-of- 
Celery  Soup. 
Serve     inner 
stalks  raw. 

Should  the  peas 
lack    sweet- 
ness, add  ^  to 
1  teaspoonful 
of    sugar     to 
each  half-peck 
of  peas  while 
cooling. 

> 
OQ 

Serve  in  thin  white 
sauce,     or     with 
green  peas. 

Serve  in  thin  white 
sauce. 

Drain,     and    serve 
covered,   with 
white  sauce. 

Serve  without  drain- 
ing ;  season  with 
butter  and    pep- 
per. 

30  min. 
to  1  br. 

20  to  30 
min. 

H 

5 

o 

a 

O 

Q 
O 

Cook  in  boiling  water. 

Cook  in  a  small  quantity 
of  boiling  water. 

Simmer  them   till   ten- 
der in  water  to  cover 
them. 

Cook  in  barely  enough 
water  to  cover,   add- 
ing  salt   15    minutes 
before     taking     from 
fire.     Let  water  boil 
down  when  peas  are 
nearly  cooked. 

63 

z 

y 

H 
63 
Pi 

Wash  and  scrape  ;  drop 
into  cold  water. 

Wash  and  scrape;    cut 
into  half-inch  cubes. 

Cut  off  root ;  wash  and 
scrape   outer    stalks ; 
cut    them    into    one- 
inch  pieces. 

1 

t 
|| 

xi  ^ 

6 

63 

See  that  leaves  are  green 
and  fresh. 

Choose  the  smaller  ones. 

2 
II 

C5 

See  that  pods  are  green 
and  brittle,  peas  green. 
Young  peas  are  small. 
Cook  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible.     Peas    are    in- 
jured by  keeping. 

vi 

n 
‚Ä¢< 

Carrots. 
Young 
(summer). 

Old 
(winter). 

63 
H 

1 

246 


Kather  old  spin- 
ach   may    be 
better  cooked 
in  water  and 
drained. 

If  very  watery, 
press  outpart 
of  the   juice 
by  squeezing 
the  pieces  of 
squash      be- 
tween      the 
colander  and 
a  plate. 

Pink   tomatoes 
are      usually 
less  acid  than 
red  ones. 

Season  with  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper, 
and  reheat. 

Mash,    and    season 
with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper. 

Scoopoutinnerpart. 
Rub    through    a 
colander ;  season 
with  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt. 

Add  for  each  pint 
of  tomatoes  1  tb. 
butter,  I  t.  salt, 
a   few  grains    of 
pepper,  and  1  or 
2  t.  of  sugar.    To 
thicken,   stir     in 
2  tb.  of  pounded 
and  sifted  cracker 
crumbs;  or  omit 
crumbs  and  serve 
on  buttered  toast. 

About 

15 
min. 

About 
30  min. 

About 
40  min. 

About 

20 
min. 

Cook  in  its  own  juices, 
heating    it    gradually 
till  these  are   drawn 
out. 

Cook  in  a  steamer  or  a 
strainer    placed   over 
boiling  water. 

Steam      like      summer 
squash. 

a 

% 

a 
s 

Cut    off    roots,    stems, 
and  poor  leaves  ;  wash 
by    lifting   from   one 
pan  of  cold  water  to 
another,  till  water  is 
free  from  sand. 

Wash,  cut  into  pieces, 
and  pare. 

Break  into  pieces  with 
hatchet ;      take     out 
shreds  and  seeds. 

Let  them  stand  covered 
with     boiling     water 
for    one     minute    to 
loosen  the  skins  ;  peel 
and  cut  into  pieces. 

Choose  that  with  leaves 
fresh  and   dirty.     If 
clean,  they  have 
wilted     and     been 
soaked  to  revive  them. 

Good  ones  are  light 
yellow,  the  shell  ten- 
der enough  to  be  bro- 
ken with  the  finger- 
nail. 

Choose  sound  ones  with 
no  soft  spots.  If  you 
buy  a  quantity,  keep 
them  spread  out  in  a 
dry  place. 

Best    ones    are     firm, 
smooth,   and    evenly 
red,  with  no  decayed, 
bruised,    or    green 
spots. 

Spinach. 

Squash. 
Crookneck 
or  Sum- 
mer. 

Hubbard 
or 
Winter. 

247 


248        THEORY  AND    PRACTICE    OF    COOKERY 

Suggestions  about  cooking  and  serving 
Vegetables 

395.  1.  Strong-flavored  vegetables  may  have  to  be 
cooked  in  a  generous  supply  of  water  to  make  them 
palatable.  As  this  wastes  them,  it  is  better  to  buy 
mild-flavored  ones. 

2.  Avoid  piercing  vegetables  to  see  if  they  are 
cooked.  A  knitting-needle  breaks  them  less  than  a 
fork. 

3.  As  one  object  in  using  vegetables  is  to  give 
variety  to  our  diet,  take  pains  to  vary  the  vegetables 
served  from  day  to  day ;  if  you  can  get  but  few  kinds, 
vary  the  ways  of  cooking  these. 

4.  Take  particular  pains  to  make  winter  vegetables 
attractive  to  sight  and  taste. 

Suggestions  for  home  work  and  reading.  ‚Äî  Make  a  list  of  the 
parts  of  plants  used  as  vegetable,  and  write  each  under  its  proper 
head,  ‚Äî  beet  under  root,  celery  under  stalk,  etc.  As  you  become 
familiar  with  other  plant  foods  add  them  to  the  list,  ‚Äî  cinnamon 
under  bark,  maple  syrup  under  sap,  etc.  Write  in  tabular  form 
directions  for  selecting,  keeping,  preparing,  cooking,  and  serving 
potatoes,  or  any  other  vegetable  not  included  in  the  table  on 
pp.  244-247.  Some  common  vegetables  are  treated  of  in  Chapter 
XXII  of  Food  Products  of  the  World,  p.  193. 

Section  3.    Cream-of-Vegetable  Soups  (Purees) 

396.  A  puree  is  the  pulp  of  a  cooked  vegetable, 
strained  and  thinned  slightly  with  milk  or  cream.  A 
cream-of- vegetable  soup  is  a  very  thin  puree.  Vegetables 
too  old  or  too  tough  to  be  served  whole  should  be  made 


ACID   AND   SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  249 

into  soup  or  puree,  as  straining  removes  the  hull  and 
coarse  fibre,  leaving  the  digestible  part  of  the  vegeta- 
ble. Flour  or  cornstarch  is  added  to  these  soups  to 
keep  the  vegetable  from  settling.  This  flour  or  corn- 
starch and  the  butter  usually  mixed  with  it  are  called 
"  binding  material,"  because  they  bind  together  the 
solid  and  liquid  parts  of  the  soup. 

Recipe  for  Green  Pea  Soup 

Green  peas,       1  pint,  or  1  can.        Salt,       1  teaspoonful. 
Boiling  water,  1  (juart.  Pepper,  i^  teaspoonful. 

Milk,  1  pint.  Sugar,    yi  to  1  teaspoonful  (more 

Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls.  for  old  peas  than  for  young). 

Flour,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Cook  the  onion  with  the  peas  in  the  water.  Scald 
the  milk.  When  the  peas  are  very  soft,  remove  the 
onion  and  mash  the  peas  through  a  strainer,  add  to 
them  the  milk,  and  reheat.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter 
together,  stir  into  them  a  little  of  the  soup,  and  turn 
this  mixture  back  into  the  rest  of  the  soup.  Stir  till 
smooth,  add  seasoning  and  sugar,  and  serve  with 
croutons. 

397.  To  prepare  croutons,  cut  buttered  slices  of  bread 
one-half  inch  thick  into  half-inch  squares.  Heat  these 
on  a  pan  in  the  oven,  stirring  occasionally,  till  they  are 
crisp  and  golden-brown.  Pass  them  with  soup.  They 
may  be  kept  and  reheated. 


250        THEORY  AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Recipe  for  Tomato  Soup  without  Stock 

Note.  ‚Äî  This  soup,  although  it  contains  no  milk  or  cream,  is  given 
here  because  in  other  respects  it  is  made  like  cream-of-vegetable 
soups. 

Tomatoes,    1  can,   or  Celery  salt,  1  teaspoonful,  or 

Fresh-cooked  tomatoes,  1  quart.  Salt,  1  teaspoonful,  and  a  sprig 
Hot  water,    1  pint.  of  celery  cooked  in  the  soup. 

Butter,         X  cupful.  Pepper,         a  few  grains. 

Cornstarch,  3  tablespoonfuls.  Onion,  1  slice. 

Cloves,  4.  Sugar,  1  tablespoonful. 

Cook  water,  tomatoes,  onions,  and  cloves  together  for 
twenty  minutes  ;  add  the  butter,  stir  in  the  cornstarch 
wet  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water  ;  boil  the  soup 
till  clear,  and  season. 

Cornstarch  is  used  in  this  recipe  because  it  gives  a 
clearer  soup  than  flour  does.  Why  is  it  mixed  with 
water  instead  of  with  butter  ?  Which  lumps  most 
easily,  pure  starch  or  flour  ?  Why  ?  Why  is  more 
thickening  required  for  tomato  than  for  pea  soup  ? 

398.  General  proportions  of  ingredients  for  cream-of-vege- 
table soups.  ‚Äî  To  one  quart  of  liquid  (water,  milk,  stock) 
use  one  to  two  cupfuls  of  vegetable  pulp^  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter^  one  to  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  ^  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  from  a  feiv  grains  to  one-eighth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper. 

General  directions  for  making  cream-of-vegetable  soups.  ‚Äî 
A  cream-of-vegetable  soup  is  practically  white  sauce, 
with  the  addition  of  vegetable  pulp.  Cook  the  vegeta- 
ble in  water  till  very  soft.      Press  it  through  a  sieve, 


TABLE    OF   CREAM-OF-VEGETABLE    SOUPS 


Namu  oif  Soup. 

Vkgetablkr. 

LlCitTID. 

Binding  or 
Thickening. 

Seasoning. 

Other  Ingredients. 

Special  Directions  for  preparing  the  Soups. 
For  General  Directions,  see  ¬ß  398. 

Water. 

Milk. 

Butter. 

Flour. 

Cream  oftoiiiato. 

Tomatoes,  V2  can. 

Iqt. 

2tb. 

3tb. 

Salt,  1  t. 
Pepper,  Vs  t. 

Soda,  a  few  grains. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  thicken  it  with  the  flour  and  butter.    Cook 
the  tomatoes  ten  minutes,  or  till  soft,  add  the  soda,  and 
strain.     Stir  the  tomato  slowly  into  the  thickened  milk, 
taking  care  that  it  does  not  cook  after  being  mixed,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Cream  of  aspar- 
agus. 

Asparagus,  1 
bun(!h. 

Iqt.     (Boil  down  to 
1  pt.) 

Ipt. 

2tb. 

2tb. 

Salt,  1  t. 

Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Break  off  the  heads,  and  cook  them  with  the  stalks  in  the 
water.    Take  out  the  heads  as  soon  as  they  are  tender,  and 
either  serve  them  on  toast,  or  put  them  in  the  tureen  before 
turning  in  the  soup. 

Croam  of  celery. 

C(ilery,  .'5  roots, 
or    3    outside 
pieces     of     3 
stalks  with 
leaves. 

1  pt.  hot,  or  enough 
to  cover  the  cel- 
ery. 

Iqt. 

2tb. 

2tb. 

Salt,  11/2 1. 
Celery  salt,  Va  t. 
Pepper,  Va  t. 

Wash  the  celery,  cut  it  into  short  pieces,  and  simmer  it  in  the 
water  till  soft. 

Cream    of    tur- 
nip, carrot, 
etc. 

Mashed    v  e  g  e- 
table,  1  to  'Jc. 

1  pt.  of  the  water 
the  vegetable  was 
cooked  in. 

Ipt. 

2tb. 

2tb. 

Salt  and  pepper,  according 
to  quantity  of  seasoning 
already  added  to  the  veg- 
etable. 

If  a  "  left-over  "  mashed  vegetable  is  used,  heat  the  milk  and 
water  together,  and  pour  them  on  to  it.    Strain  and  bind  as 
usual. 

Potato. 

."5  largo  potatoes. 

Iqt. 

2tb. 

2tb. 

Salt,  1  t. 
Pepper,  Va  t. 

Parsley,  2  t. 
Bit  of  bay-leaf. 
Onion,  1  slice. 
Celery-root     (if     on 
hand). 

Boil  the  potatoes,  and  mash  them  through  a  strainer  into  a 
saucepan.     Cook  the  onion  in  the  milk.     When  the  latter 
reaches  the  scalding-point,  take  out  the  onion,  and  stir  the 
milk   into   the   jjotato.      Bind  with  the  flour  and  butter; 
season ;  strain  into  a  tureen,  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 

Split  pea. 

Dried  split  peas, 
Ic. 

3  pts.  cold. 

Enough     to 
thin   the 
soup  prop- 
erly.            1 

2  tb. 

2tb. 

Salt,  1  t. 
Pepper,  Vs  t. 

Ham-bone,    slice    of 
onion,  or  both,  may 
be  cooked  with  the 
peas. 

Soak  the  peas  over  night.     In  the  morning  drain  them  and 
simmer  them  in  the  water  two  hours  or  more,  adding  more 
water  as  the  first  boils  away.     When  very  soft  rub  peas  and 
water  through  a  strainer. 

Name  of  Soup. 

Vegetables. 

Liquid. 

Water. 

Milk. 

Cream  of  tomato. 

Tomatoes,  V2  can. 

Iqt. 

Cream  of  aspar- 
agus. 

Asparagus, 1 
bunch. 

1  qt.    (Boil  down  to 
1  pt.) 

Ipt. 

Cream  of  celery. 

Celery,  3  roots, 
or    3    outside 
pieces     of     3 
stalks  with 
leaves. 

1  pt.  hot,  or  enough 
to  cover  the  cel- 
ery. 

1  qt. 

Cream    of    tur- 
nip, carrot, 
etc. 

Mashed    v  e  g  e- 
table,  1  to  2  c. 

1  pt.  of  the  water 
the  vegetable  was 
cooked  in. 

Ipt. 

Potato. 

3  large  potatoes. 

1  qt. 

Split  pea. 

Dried  split  peas, 
Ic. 

3  pts.  cold. 

Enough     to 
thin   the 
soup  prop- 
erly. 

ACID   AND    SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  251 

vegetable  press,  or  strainer,  using  the  cooking  water  to 
help  wash  the  pulp  througli.  Heat  milk  and  pulp 
together,  stir  into  them  the  binding  material  (corn- 
starch mixed  with  water,  or  flour  mixed  with  butter), 
boil  till  smooth,  and  season.  If  too  thick,  add  more 
milk.  The  coarser  the  vegetable,  the  coarser  should 
be  the  strainer  used.  Onions,  herbs,  and  whole  spices 
may  be  cooked  in  the  water  or  milk  used  in  the  soup  ; 
other  seasonings  are  added  at  the  last.  To  make  the 
soup  richer,  part  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  all  milk, 
white  stock  instead  of  water,  or  a  beaten  egg  or  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream  may  be  put  into  the  tureen 
before  turning  in  the  soup. 

Study  the  table  below,  noting  in  what  respects  the 
soups  are  alike,  in  what  different.  Think  out,  if  you 
can,  the  reasons  for  variations  in  quantity  of  water 
used,  time  of  cooking,  etc. 

Caution.  ‚Äî  Cream-of-tomato  soup  must  be  made  with 
great  care  to  prevent  the  acid  in  the  tomatoes  from 
curdling  the  milk.  Adding  a  bit  of  soda  helps  to 
neutralize  the  acid.  Draw  the  saucepan  away  from 
the  heat  before  adding  the  soda ;  otherwise  the 
tomato  may  foam  over.  Explain  this.  What  gas  is 
formed?  (¬ß¬ß  193  and  194.)  Pour  the  tomato  slowly 
into  the  milk  ;  if  the  milk  be  poured  into  the  tomato, 
it  will  curdle.  Take  care  not  to  combine  milk  and 
tomato  till  just  before  the  soup  is  served,  as  milk  heated 
with  acid  is  almost  sure  to  curdle. 


252        THEORY  AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Bean  Puree 

Beans,  1  quart.  Baking-soda,  %  teaspoonful. 

Onion,  1  small  one.  Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Carrot,  2  slices.  Milk  or  cream. 

A  bit  of  bay-leaf.  Salt,  ^  teaspoonful. 

Pepper,  a  few  grains. 

Wash  the  beans,  and  soak  in  cold  water  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain,  cover  them  with  cold  water,  and 
when  this  boils,  drain  them  again.  Add  soda,  onion, 
bay-leaf,  and  carrot.  Boil  gently  until  the  beans  are 
soft ;  then  press  them  through  a  colander,  add  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  and  milk  or  cream  enough  to  thin  the 
pur^e  to  your  taste.     Serve  as  a  vegetable. 

Section  4.    Salads 

A  cheap  but  wholesome  salad  from  the  brook.  ‚Äî  Cowper. 

399.  The  salad,  or  "  salet,"  of  olden  times  was 
always  a  dish  of  green  herbs  dressed  with  vinegar  and 
other  condiments.  Now  eggs,  many  kinds  of  meat, 
fish,  and  fruit,  and  almost  all  kinds  of  vegetables, 
cooked  as  well  as  raw,  are  used  in  salads,  singly,  or 
combined  with  a  dressing  containing  oil,  butter,  or 
cream. 

Salad-making 

400.  Four  things  essential  in  salad-making.  ‚Äî  A  salad 
must  be  cold^  the  greens  in  it  crisp^  the  ingredients  in 
the  dressing  carefully  proportioned  and  blended  so  that 
it  shall  be  neither  oily  nor  acid,  and  the  whole  well- 
mixed.     With  these  conditions  fulfilled,   a  handful  of 


ACID   AND    SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  253 

lettuce  leaves  dressed  with  salt,  pepper,  oil,  and  vine- 
gar is  in  its  way  to  a  perfect  dish.  Because  of  the 
judgment  and  deftness  required  to  produce  this  perfec- 
tion, the  master  or  mistress  of  the  house  frequently 
prefers  to  dress  such  a  salad  rather  than  to  have  it 
brought  to  the  table  dressed. 

401.  Preparing  the  ingredients. ‚Äî Lettuce  is  used  as  a 
bed  for  any  salad.  As  soon  as  it  comes  into  the  house, 
sprinkle  it,  and  put  it  in  a  covered  tin  pail  in  the  ice- 
box. To  prepare  it  for  use,  cut  off  the  stem,  separate 
the  leaves,  and  let  them  lie  for  at  least  fifteen  minutes 
in  the  coldest  water  you  can  provide.  Wash  them 
clean,  taking  care  not  to  break  them  ;  look  sharply  to 
see  that  no  insects  cling  to  them,  shake  lightly  or 
swing  them  in  a  wire  basket  or  a  salad-net  ^  to  partially 
dry  them,  and  wipe  them  carefully  with  a  soft  cloth. 
If  left  wet,  the  dressing  runs  off  of  them.  Freshen 
and  dry  other  salad  leaves  in  the  same  way.  Other 
vegetables.  ‚Äî  (For  tomatoes  and  cucumbers,  see  p.  243.) 
Remove  the  strings  from  string  beans,  and  cook  them 
without  breaking  or  cutting.  Keep  parsley  in  a  glass 
of  water,  with  only  the  roots  wet.  Cut  cooked  vegetables 
except  potatoes  into  half-inch  cubes,  or  small  irregular 
bits.  Put  remnants  of  cooked  vegetables  into  a  colan- 
der and  pour  hot  water  over  them  to  rinse  off  any 
butter. 

1  Bags  made  of  coarse  netting  are  sold  for  this  purpose. 


254   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Plain  French  Dressing 

Salt,         Yz  teaspoonful.  Olive  oil,  3  tablespoonfuls. 

Pepper,    %.  teaspoonful.  Vinegar,  (malt,  wine,  or  tarra- 

gon,) 1  tablespoonful. 

Onion  juice  (if  desired),  or  rub  the  salad  bowl  with  a  clove  of 
garlic. 

Stir  the  seasonings  into  the  oil,  add  the  vinegar,  and 
stir  vigorously  until  the  dressing  thickens  slightly. 
A  larger  quantity  made  in  the  same  proportions  may 
be  passed  in  a  bowl. 

French  dressing  may  be  served  with  any  green  salad. 

Mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad  dressing  are  appropriate 
with  string  beans,  tomatoes,  celery,  or  cauliflower. 
Cooked  dressing  is  used  with  cabbage ;  Mayonnaise 
usually  with  meat  or  fish. 

402.  Arranging  the  salad.  ‚Äî  If  only  lettuce  is  to  be 
served,  put  it  in  a  pretty  bowl,  either  glass,  or  of  some 
color  that  looks  well  with  the  green  of  the  leaves. 
Arrange  these  to  form  a  frill  above  the  edge  of  the 
dish,  and  let  the  centre  be  a  nest  of  cool,  shadowy  green. 
The  arranging  of  salads  gives  a  girl  a  chance  to  dis- 
play artistic  skill  no  less  than  does  the  embroidering 
of  a  doily,  or  the  making  of  a  sketch.  How  satis- 
factory to  be  able  to  combine  those  few  spoonfuls  of 
peas,  beets,  potatoes,  and  what  not,  left  from  two  or 
three  dinners,  into  a  pyramid  of  pretty  colors,  wreathed 
with  green  and  blossoming  with  radish  "  rose-buds  "  I 
(Macedoine  Salad.)  Or,  starting  with  fresh  mate- 
rials, what  pleasure  may  be  found  in  bringing  out  the 


PLATE   XI. 


Macedoine  Salad. 


Home-made  Pasteurize] 

For  description,  see  p.  292. 


ACID   AND    SALT   SUPPLYING   FOODS  255 

beauty  of  glowing  tomatoes  nestled  in  palest  green,  and 
crowned  with  golden  Mayonnaise  !  (Stuffed  Tomato 
Salad.)  Nor  do  thrift  and  taste  and  judgment  alone 
come  into  play  in  salad-making ;  use  your  originality 
and  invention,  and  you  can  produce  many  a  salad  not 
described  in  cook-books,  but  delightful  to  eye  and  taste. 

403.  To  dress  lettuce  at  the  table,  mix  oil  and  season- 
ings in  the  salad  spoon,  pour  them  over  the  lettuce, 
and  toss  and  turn  this  till  every  leaf  is  coated.  Then 
add  the  vinegar,  and  toss  again.  To  vary  the  flavor, 
have  the  salad  bowl  rubbed  with  a  "  clove  of  garlic," 
or  have  a  piece  of  bread  rubbed  with  garlic  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  bowl. 

404.  Reasons  why  salads  should  be  eaten  more  than  they 
are.  ‚Äî  While  the  food  value  of  a  green  salad  is  not 
large,  the  salts  it  supplies  and  its  refreshing,  appetizing 
qualities  make  it  a  most  wholesome  food.  The  oil  or 
butter  used  in  dressing  it  furnishes  fat  in  a  digestible 
form.  The  acid  vinegar  is  believed  to  help  digest  the 
cellulose.  Salads  are  prepared  with  little  trouble  and 
with  no  expense  for  fuel.  Some  vegetable  suitable  for 
salad  can  be  obtained  all  the  year  round,  even  canned 
ones  making,  with  fresh  greens,  an  acceptable  dish.  If 
you  cannot  have  salad  every  day,  have  it  as  often  as  you 
can.  Some  people  now  have  salad  instead  of  dessert, 
and  if  you  cannot  have  both  at  the  same  dinner,  it  is 
well  to  substitute  salad  for  pudding  two  or  three  times 
a  week,  at  least. 


256        THEOEY  AND   PKACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Recipes 
Mixed  Vegetable  or  Macedoine  Salad  (Plate  XI) 

Cold  cooked  peas,  carrots,  beets,  string  beans,  almost 
any  cold  vegetables  may  be  combined  in  this  salad. 

Cut  beets  and  carrots  in  half-inch  cubes,  string  beans 
and  celery  in  short  lengths,  mix  each  vegetable  sepa- 
rately with  French  dressing,  and  arrange  them  in 
sections,  forming  a  circular  mound.  Let  vegetables 
of  contrasting  colors  come  next  each  other.  Garnish 
with  radishes,  celery  tips,  lettuce  leaves,  etc. 

Potato  Salad 

Hot  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  _j4-inch  cubes,  3  cupfuls. 
Salad  oil,  9  tablespoonfuls.  Pepper,  }4-  teaspoonful. 

Vinegar,    3  teaspoonfuls.      Onion,  chopped  fine,      %  cupful. 
Salt,  1  teaspoonful.       Parsley,  cut  fine,  1  tablespoonful. 

Mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly,  heap  the  salad  on 
a  dish,  and  garnish  with  radishes,  sliced,  or  cut  in  rose 
form  (¬ß  394),  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Cooked  Salad  Dressing  (without  oil) 

Mustard,  J4  teaspoonful.  Sugar,  1  teaspoonful. 

Salt,  ^  teaspoonful.  Yolk  of  1  egg. 

Cayenne,  a  few  grains.  Milk,  ^  cupful. 

Flour,       2  teaspoonfuls.  Butter,  melted,  2  teaspoonfuls. 

Hot  vinegar,  i^  cupful. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  in  a  saucepan,  stir  into  them 
the  yolk  of  egg^  butter,  and  milk.     Stir  the  mixture 


ACID   AND    SALT    SUPPLYING   FOODS  257 

over  hot  water  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  stir  in 
the  vinegar,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  When  as  thick  as 
thick  cream,  strain  and  cool. 

Cole-slaw 

One-half  of  a  small  hard  cabbage. 
Cooked  salad  dressing,  hot,  1  cupful. 

Soak  the  cabbage  in  cold  salt  water  for  thirty  minutes, 
shred  it  fine  with  a  sharp  knife  or  vegetable  shredder, 
and  mix  the  dressing  with  it.     Serve  cold. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Yolk  of  1  egg.  Cayenne  pepper,  a  few  grains,  or  paprika,  X 

Olive  oil,  1  cupful,     teaspoonful.  Mustard,  if  liked,  }4  teaspoonful. 
Salt,  j4  teaspoonful.    Lemon  juice  or  strong  malt  or  tarragon  vine- 
gar, about  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Mix  in  a  bowl  or  soup-plate  with  a  silver  fork.  To 
insure  success,  have  bowl,  oil,  and  egg  very  cold ;  and 
add  oil  very  slowl3^  In  summer  set  the  bowl  in  a  pan 
of  cracked  ice  while  mixing  the  dressing. 

Break  and  separate  the  egg,  taking  care  that  no  white 
remains  with  the  yolk.  Beat  the  yolk  slightly,  and  stir 
into  it  the  seasonings  mixed.  Now  begin  to  add  the 
oil,  a  drop  at  a  time  at  first,  beating  hard.  As  it 
thickens,  add  more  rapidly,  but  never  add  more  until 
that  in  the  bowl  has  become  thoroughly  mixed  with  the 
egg.  When  too  stiff  to  beat  easily,  add  a  little  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice,  and  continue  adding  oil  and  vinegar 
alternately,  until  all  is  in.     The  dressing  should  hold 


258   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

its  shape.     More  oil  and  seasonings  can  be  added  to  one 
yolk  to  make  a  larger  quantity  of  dressing. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Medium-sized  tomatoes,  8.  Mayonnaise  dressing,  1  cupful. 

Celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  Lettuce. 

or 

Cucumber  cut  in  cubes,  2  cupfuls.  Salt. 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes  ;  slice  off  their  tops. 
Scrape  out  the  seeds  and  a  little  of  the  pulp,  and  fill 
the  cavities  heaping  full  with  celery  or  cucumber  mixed 
with  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Make  on  a  platter,  or  on 
separate  plates,  nests  of  tender  lettuce  leaves,  and  put  a 
tomato  in  each  nest. 

Chapter  XXIII  in  Food  Products  of  the  World  tells  about  salad 
plants. 


CHAPTER   IX 

SUGAR  AND  SWEETS 

Section  1 .    Sugar  ‚Äî  Candies 

405.  Sugar  a  valuable  food.  ‚Äî  Sugar  is  not  only  a  food 
pleasing  to  the  taste,  but  is  one  of  the  best  of  heat  givers 
and  force  producers.  This  is  why  children,  naturally 
more  active  than  grown  people,  are  more  eager  for 
sugar. 

406.  Common  sense  in  the  use  of  sugar.  ‚Äî  Because  sugar 
dissolves  readily,  small  quantities  of  it  are  easily  digested; 
but  if  more  than  a  little  is  taken  at  once,  some  of  it 
is  likely  to  ferment  in  the  stomach,  causing  distress, 
and  interfering  with  the  digestion  of  other  foods.  It 
may  ferment  in  the  mouth  and  make  the  teeth  decay. 

Do  not  eat  sweets  just  before  meals ;  they  will  take 
away  your  appetite  for  more  substantial  food.  Use 
sugar  sparingly  on  oatmeal  and  in  beverages  ;  a  little 
tastes  as  sweet  as  more  to  one  who  has  not  blunted  his 
taste  by  using  too  much.  Do  not  be  tempted  by  sweets 
in  the  bakeshop  ;  they  are  bad  for  teeth,  complexion, 
and  health. 

407.  Where  sugar  comes  from.  ‚Äî There  are  many  kinds 
of  sugar,  but  the  kind  we  usually  mean  when  we  speak 
of  sugar  is  made  from  the  juice  of  the  sugar-cane.     This 

25U 


260   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

juice  also  contains  gluten,  which  makes  it  a  better  food 
than  manufactured  sugar  is. 

408.  The  sugar-cane.  ‚Äî  The  sugar-cane  is  a  tropical 
plant  belonging  to  the  family  of  grasses.  It  looks  like 
corn,  but  grows  sometimes  twenty  feet  high.  The  stalk 
contains  a  loose,  spongy  substance,  filled,  in  the  grow- 
ing plant,  with  sap.  About  the  time  that  the  blossoms 
appear,  the  sap  becomes  sweet  and  rises  in  the  stalks  to 
feed  the  ripening  plant.  The  stickiness  of  the  stalks 
is  the  sign  that  the  cane  is  ready  to  be  cut  down. 

Sugar  Making  and  Refining 

409.  Raw  sugar.  ‚Äî  The  sweet  juice  obtained  by  crush- 
ing the  cane-stalks  between  rollers  is  boiled  to  a  thick 
syrup  in  large  copper  vessels.  As  it  slowly  cools,  part 
of  it  separates  into  crystals.  The  liquid  that  will  not 
crystallize  is  called  molasses.  After  draining  this  off, 
raw  sugar,  a  coarse,  impure,  brown  product,  is  left. 

410.  Experiment  to  illustrate  crystallization.  ‚Äî  Dissolve  in  hot 
water  as  much  sugar  as  it  will  take  up.  This  makes  what  is  called 
a  concentrated  solution.  Boil  this  till  syrupy.  Then  hang  in  it  sev- 
eral pieces  of  worsted,  and  let  it  cool  slowly.  AVhat  forms  on  the 
worsted  ?     This  is  the  method  used  in  making  rock  candy. 

411.  Experiment  with  molasses.  ‚Äî  Test  molasses  with  red  and 
with  blue  litmus  paper.  Is  it  acid  or  alkaline  ?  Add  to  a  little  of 
the  molasses  in  a  test-tube  a  pinch  of  baking-soda,  and  test  again. 
What  does  this  test  show?  What  does  the  foaming  of  the  molasses 
show?     (¬ß¬ß  193  and  197.) 

Soda  is  used  with  molasses  as  it  is  with  sour  milk  to  raise 
batters.  ‚Äî  If  only  a  little  molasses  is  called  for  by  the 


SUGAR   AND    SWEETS  261 

recipe,  enough  soda  must  be  used  to  neutralize  this, 
and  as  much  baking-powder  added  as  is  required  to 
make  the  batter  light. 

412.  Experiments  to  illustrate  the  refining  of   raw  sugar.  ‚Äî  A. 

Dissolve  some  raw  sugar  in  water,  and  pour  it  through  a  fine 
strainer  lined  with  flannel.  Which  is  clearer,  the  original  liquid 
or  the  filtrate  ? 

B.  Plug  the  bottom  of  a  flower  pot  with  a  sponge,  fill  it  half 
full  of  charcoal,  and  pour  through  this  the  filtrate  from  the 
strainer.  What  has  become  of  the  brown  coloring  matter?  Taste 
the  filtrate.     Where  is  the  sugar? 

413.  How  sugar  is  refined.  ‚Äî  In  the  sugar  refineries  of 
the  United  States  raw  sugar  is  mixed  with  hot  water, 
treated  with  lime  to  neutralize  any  acid  present,  and 
then  filtered,  first  through  flannel,  afterward  through  a 
bed  of  charcoal.  Next  it  is  boiled  in  vacuum  pans. 
These  are  covered  vessels  from  which  part  of  the  air  is 
exhausted.  Under  this  reduced  air  pressure  the  sugar 
solution  can  be  evaporated  to  a  thick  syrup  without 
danger  of  burning  it.      (¬ß  42.) 

414.  Trade  names  of  sugars.  ‚Äî  Granulated  sugar  is  ob- 
tained from  this  syrup  by  putting  it  into  centrifugal 
machines,  rapidly  revolving  cylinders  which  throw  out 
the  uncrystallizable  part  of  the  syrup,  leaving  a  mass 
of  white  crystals. 

Cut  or  block  sugar,  the  purest  kind,  is  made  by  run- 
ning the  syrup  into  molds,  where  it  hardens.  The 
glistening  crystalline  cones  are  then  sawed  into  cubes. 
An  inferior  kind  of  block  sugar  is  made  by  pressing 
granulated  sugar  into  cubes.     These  are  more  regular 


262   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

in  shape  than  the  blocks  of  sawed  sugar,  and  lack  their 
rough  surface.  Powdered  sugar  is  made  by  grinding  the 
fragments  broken  off  in  sawing  block  sugar.  Brown 
sugars  are  less  refined  grades. 

415.  Other  kinds  of  sugar. ‚Äî Honey  is  the  purest  nat- 
ural form  of  sugar.  Beet  sugar  is  made  from  the  juice 
of  the  sugar  beet.  Maple  sugar  is  obtained  by  simply 
boiling  down  the  sap  of  the  sugar  maple  until  it  thick- 
ens, and  then  cooling  it  in  molds.  Grape  sugar,  or 
glucose,  appears  as  a  yellowish,  grainy  substance  on 
raisins  and  other  dried  fruits.  Commercial  glucose  is 
manufactured  from  starch  by  boiling  it  with  an  acid. 
It  is  not  so  sweet  as  cane  sugar,  but  wholesome,  and 
even  more  readily  digestible.  It  is  too  moist  to  be 
convenient  for  household  use,  but  is  used  largely  by 
candy  makers.     What  other   kinds   of   sugar   do   you 

know  of  ? 

Candy 

416.  Pure  candy  can  be  made  at  home  more  cheaply 
than  it  can  be  bought.  Much  of  the  candy  sold  is  made 
of  impure  sugar  and  contains  coloring  matter  that  is 
unwholesome,  and,  in  some  cases,  poisonous. 

417.  The  effect  of  heat  on  sugar ;  experiment.  ‚Äî  Heat  a  Httle 
sugar  in  a  test-tube,  noting  the  changes  in  its  appearance.  Con- 
tinue heating  till  there  is  no  further  change. 

Sugar  becomes  at  365¬∞  F.  a  clear,  colorless  liquid, 
barley  sugar.  At  420¬∞,  the  sugar  turns  brown.  It  is 
now  caramel.  If  heated  still  further,  its  oxygen  and 
hydrogen  gradually  pass  off  as  steam,  leaving  only  a 


SUGAR   AND    SWEETS  263 

lump   of  black  carbon,  one-fourth   the   weight  of   the 
original  sugar. 

418.  Boiling  sugar  to  the  thread,  soft  ball,  hard  ball,  and 
crack.  ‚Äî  Sugar  is  heated  to  different  degrees  for  differ- 
ent kinds  of  candy.  For  some,  it  is  boiled  till  a  drop 
let  fall  from  the  spoon  spins  itself  into  a  fine  thread  ; 
for  some,  to  the  "  soft  ball  "  stage,  when  a  little  dropped 
into  water  can  be  rolled  into  a  soft  ball  between  your 
fingers  ;  for  others,  till  it  makes  a  ''  hard  ball  "  in  cold 
water.  When  it  becomes  brittle  upon  being  dropped 
in  water,  it  is  said  to  be  boiled  to  "the  crack." 

Candy  Recipes 

Molasses  Candy 

Cook  two  cupfuls  of  molasses  in  a  buttered  iron  kettle 
until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water.  Turn  out  on 
a  buttered  plate.  This  may  be  pulled  just  before  it 
hardens.      One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  may  be  used  in 

this  candy. 

Butter  Taffy 
Brown  sugar,  2  cupfuls. 

Water,  6  tablespoon  fuls. 

Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Grated  cocoanut  or  chopped  nuts,  ^  cupful. 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together,  stirring,  till  the 
sugar  dissolves.  Let  this  syrup  come  to  the  boiling- 
point,  then  add  the  butter  and  cook  to  the  ''  soft  ball " 
stage  (about  ten  minutes).  Add  cocoanut  or  chopped 
nuts.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  and  pour  quickly  into 
buttered  pans. 


264   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Peanut  Brittle 
Sugar,  1  cupful. 

Peanuts  (shelled  and  pounded),   1  cupful. 

Put  the  peanuts  on  a  buttered  tin  plate  and  set  on 
the  back  of  the  stove.  Make  a  caramel  of  the  sugar. 
Stir  in  the  peanuts  very  quickly,  pour  it  into  the  pans, 
and  spread  it  thin  by  slightly  tilting  them. 

You  can  read  more  about  sugars  in  Foods  and  Beverages,  pp. 
215-231,  and  about  preserves  and  candy,  pp.  232-23.5.  For  an 
experiment  in  crystallization  to  try  at  home,  see  p.  236  of  Early 
Chapters  in  Science.  For  directions  for  making  other  kinds  of 
candy,  see  The  Centunj  Cook-hook. 

Section  2.    Cakes  and  Desserts 
Few  things  are  impossible  to  diligence  and  skill.  ‚Äî  Samuel  Johnson. 

419.  Under  the  head  of  "  Cakes  and  Desserts  "  come 
most  of  the  dishes  that  contain  enough  sugar  to  make 
sweetness  their  predominant  taste.  With  the  sugar 
other  ingredients  are  combined  in  various  ways. 

Cakes  and  desserts;  new  applications  of  familiar  principles. 
‚Äî  Compare  the  recipe  for  Egg  JNluffins  with  the  recipe 
for  Standard  Cake  in  the  table  below.  For  convenience 
the  former  is  repeated  at  the  head  of  the  table.  Cake, 
you  see,  is  only  rich  bread,  some  cakes  being  richer  than 
others,  ‚Äî  that  is,  having  more  butter,  sugar,  and  eggs  in 
proportion  to  the  flour.  Which  is  the  richest  cake  in 
the  table  ?     Which  is  the  plainest  ? 

420.  Two  classes  of  cakes :  butter  and  sponge  cakes.  ‚Äî 
AH  cakes  belong  to  one  of  two  classes,  butter  cakes  and 


SUGAR   AND   SWEETS  265 

cakes  without  butter,  or  sponge  cakes.  Several  kinds  of 
cake  can  easily  be  made  from  one  recipe,  by  varying  the 
flavorings,  spices,  and  fruits,  by  baking  the  same  mix- 
ture in  pans  of  different  shapes,  by  frosting  the  cake  or 
leaving  it  plain. 

421.  Every  one  that  cooks  should  understand  the 
principles  of  mixing  and  raising  batters  sufficiently  to 
know  when  she  reads  a  new  recipe  whether  or  not  it 
will  turn  out  well,  and  whether  it  is  extravagant  or 
reasonable. 

422.  General  rules  for  the  proportions  of  ingredients  in 
cakes.  ‚Äî  In  general,  a  cake  should  contain  not  more  than 
one-third  to  one-half  as  much  butter  as  sugar,  and 
about  half  as  much  liquid  as  flour.  Remember  that 
butter,  or  other  shortening,  counts  as  liquid,  since  it 
melts  in  the  oven.  Sour  milk  and  molasses  do  not  thin 
a  mixture  as  much  as  sweet  milk  or  water.  A  cake 
with  fruit  should  be  a  little  stiffer  than  one  without. 
One  cupful  of  molasses  requires  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
How  much  soda  is  required  for  one  pint  of  sour  milk  ? 
(¬ß  197.)  How  much  baking-poAvder  for  one  cup  of 
flour?  (¬ß  201.)  The  more  eggs  there  are  in  a  cake,  the 
less  baking-powder  is  needed. 

423.  Compare  Standard  Cake  with  1,  2,  3,  4  Cake. 
How  do  you  account  for  their  having  the  same  quantity 
of  milk  while  the  flour  in  the  latter  recipe  is  double 
that  in  the  former  ?  Why  is  there  less  sugar  in  Spice 
Cake  than  in  1,  2,  3,  4  cake  ?  Account  for  the  absence 
of  baking-powder  in  Spice  Cake  and  Gingerbread.   Why 


266   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

does  Sponge  Cake  require  no  baking-powder  ?  Notice 
some  of  the  other  ways  in  which  recipes  differ,  and 
account  for  these  in  as  many  cases  as  you  can. 

Directions  for  mixing  Cake 

(See  Breaking  and  Beating  Eggs,  p.  89.) 

Note. ‚Äî Read  "Hints  on  How  to  Work,"  p.  56,  "Batters  and 
Doughs,"  p.  106,  and  "  Helpful  Hints  about  Mixing  and  Baking  Quick 
Breads,"  p.  110.  What  is  said  about  quick  breads  applies  equally  to 
cakes. 

424.  How  to  mix  butter  cakes.  ‚Äî  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar  thoroughly  ;  unless  they  become  partially  lique- 
fied before  the  other  ingredients  are  added,  the  cake  will 
be  coarse  grained,  perhaps  heavy.  Add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  slightly,  then  a  little  of  the  milk,  then 
part  of  the  flour  with  the  other  dry  ingredients  sifted 
with  it,  a  little  more  milk,  and  so  on  till  all  the  flour 
and  milk  are  stirred  in,  taking  care  to  keep  the  mixture 
always  of  about  the  same  degree  of  stiffness.  Fold  in 
the  whites  beaten  very  stiff.  Add  the  flavoring  and 
beat  the  mixture  well.  If  fruit  is  to  be  added,  fold  it 
in,  well  floured,  last  of  all. 

Compare  these  directions  with  those  for  mixing  Egg 
Muffins.  What  difference  do  you  observe  ?  For  Cot- 
tage Pudding  the  butter  is  melted..  Note  the  propor- 
tion of  butter  to  sugar,  and  think  why  this  is  done. 

425.  How  to  inix  sponge  cake.  ‚Äî  Beat  the  yolks  till 
thick  and  lemon  colored.  Beat  the  sugar  into  them, 
add  the  flavoring  (and  other  liquid,  if  the  recipe  calls 
for  any) .     Beat  the  whites  till  stiff  and  dry  ;  slip  them 


SUGAR   AND   SWEETS  267 

into  the  mixing-bowl  ;  sift  the  flour  over  them,  and  fold 
all  together.  Sponge  cake  beaten  after  adding  the  flour 
will  be  close  and  tough. 

426.  Mixing  molasses  cakes.  ‚Äî  Mix  milk  and  molasses 
and  stir  them  into  the  flour.  Add  soda  last,  sifted  with 
a  little  of  the  flour  reserved  for  this  purpose. 

427.  Fruit  must  be  well  floured  and  added  last,  or  it 
will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  loaf.  To  stone  raisins, 
cover  them  with  boiling  water.  When  they  become 
soft,  squeeze  out  the  seeds.     Cut  citron  in  thin  strips. 

(For  the  preparation  of  currants,  see  ¬ß  235.) 

428.  Directions  for  baking.  ‚Äî  The  baking  is  the  most 
important  part  of  cake  making.  No  matter  how  skil- 
fully cake  is  mixed,  it  will  be  spoiled  if  not  properly 
baked. 

429.  Greasing  cake  pans.  ‚Äî  Grease  cake  pans  well  with 
melted  butter  (¬ß  189).  Sponge-cake  tins  need  not  be 
greased  ;  line  them  with  ungreased  paper. 

430.  The  oven.  ‚Äî  The  oven  should  be  less  hot  for 
cake  than  for  bread.  It  is  right  for  butter  cakes 
baked  in  loaves,  if  it  turns  a  piece  of  writing  paper 
light  brown  in  five  minutes.  For  small  cakes  it  should 
be  hotter.  Sponge  cake  may  be  baked  either  in  a  hot 
oven  or  in  a  moderate  one,  allowing  it  forty  to  fifty 
minutes  in  the  latter  case.  Loaf  cake  requires  about 
one  hour.  Small  cakes  and  layer  cakes,  about  twenty 
minutes.  When  cake  is  done  it  shrinks  from  the  pan, 
and  a  broom  straw  run  into  it  comes  out  clean.     Take 


268   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

it  at  once  from  the  pan,  and  set  it  on  a  clean  towel  to 
cool. 

431.  The  points  of  good  cake.  ‚Äî  A  good  butter  cake  is 
smooth  on  top  and  an  even  golden-brown  all  over.  It 
should  round  up  slightly  in  the  middle,  but  not  sink 
from  the  edges  and  rise  sharply  with  a  crack  on  the 
top.  Such  a  cake  either  contains  too  much  flour  or 
has  baked  too  fast.  The  inside  of  the  loaf  should  be 
slightly  moist,  but  not  sticky,  and  of  a  fine,  even  grain, 
with  no  heavy  streaks.  Coarse-grained  cake  is  usually 
caused  by  lack  of  beating  or  by  too  slow  an  oven. 
Sponge  cake  should  rise  in  the  oven,  and  settle  to  a 
levels  not  lower,  after  being  taken  out.  The  top  crust 
should  be  slightly  sugary,  the  texture  looser  than  that 
of  butter  cake,  but  tender  and  velvety.  Too  much 
flour  makes  sponge  cake  tough. 

432.  Remarks  on  the  table  of  cake  recipes.  ‚Äî  While,  for 
convenience,  the  ingredients  for  each  cake  and  pudding 
are  given  separately  in  the  table,  it  can  readily  be  seen 
that  Cottage  Pudding  is  merely  a  sweet  muffin  mixture, 
that  Suet  Pudding  is  Standard  Cake,  made  with  suet 
instead  of  butter,  and  molasses  instead  of  sugar  ;  that 
Spice,  Gold,  and  Silver  Cakes  are  modifications  of  Cup 
Cake ;  and  that  Whole-wheat  Gingersnaps  are  made  by 
varying  slightly  the  recipe  for  Sugar  Cookies. 

Butter  or  drippings  may  be  used  instead  of  suet ;  in 
this  case,  especially  if  the  pudding  is  made  with  water, 
add  a  little  extra  flour. 

Light  Fruit  Cake  is  made  by  adding  to  either  Standard 


Special  Directions. 


Mix  and  sift  fioiir,  baking-powder,  and  salt.  Stir  into 
them  the  inilk,  beaten  egg,  and  the  butter,  melted. 
Last,  fold  in  the  beaten  white. 

Beat  the  yolk ;  beat  into  it  the  sugar  ;  stir  in  the  milk, 
and  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  salt  and  baking- 
powder.     Last,  fold  in  the  white,  beaten  stiff. 


Free  the  suet  from  membrane,  chop  it  fine,  and  mix  it 

with  the  milk  and  molasses  before  stirring  them  into 

'the  dry  ingredients.      Steam  in  a  greased  pudding 

mold   for  3  hours.     Fruit  may  be'omitted.     Serve 

with  Hard  Sauce. 


This  recipe  makes  two  loaves. 


Mix  like  any  butter  cake,  adding  the  molasses  to  the 
butter  and  sugar.     Remember  to  add  soda  last. 


Make   Gold  and  Silver  cake  at  the  same  time,  to  use 
both  parts  of  the  eggs. 


Mix  like  butter  cakes.  When  stiff  enough  to  roll,  turn 
out  on  a  floured  board,  and  roll  out,  part  at  a  time, 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Keep  board  and  pin 
well  floured.     Bake  15  minutes  on  shallow  pans. 


Roll  as  thin  as  possible. 


TABLE    GIVING   PROPORTIONS    OF    INGREDIENTS   FOR    CAKES    AND    BATTER   PUDDINGS 


Name. 

SlIORTKNING. 

Sweetening. 

Eggs. 

Liquid. 

Leavening 
Material. 

Floite. 

Flavoring.  Seasoning. 
Spice. 

i 
j 

Butter. 

Suet. 

Sugar. 

Molasses. 

Whites. 

Yolks. 

Milk. 

W.ater. 

Baking- 
l)Owder. 

Baking- 
soda. 

1 

Egg  Muffins. 

Itb. 

1 

1 

%c. 

2t. 

IV2C. 

Salt,  %  t. 

j  Mix  and  sift  tlour,  baking-poM-der,  and  salt.    Stir  into 
them  the  milk,  beaten  egg,  and  the  butter,  melted. 
Last,  fold  in  the  beaten  while. 

Cottage  pudding. 

'Jtb. 

V-i.  c. 

1 

1 

%c. 

2  t. 

11/2  c. 

Salt,  V4t. 

Beat  the  yolk  ;  beat  into  it  the  sugar  ;  stir  in  the  milk, 
and    the    Hour,   sifted   with    the    salt  and   baking- 
powder.     Last,  fold  in  the  white,  beaten  stiff. 

Standard  Cakk. 

V4C. 

%c. 

2 

2 

V2C. 

11/2  t 

IV2  c. 

Vanilla,  ^  t. 

'1 

Suet  pudding, 

Suet 

Vac. 

V2  c.  or 

¬•20. 

Vat. 

11/2  c. 

Cinnamon,   Vz  t. 
Allspice,  V4t. 
Salt,  1/4 1. 

Stoiied    and    chopped  ,  Free  the  suet  from  membrane,  chop  it  fine,  and  mix  it 

raisins  and  currants,,      with  the  milk  and  molasses  before  stirring  them  into 

mixed,  Yi  c.                     'the  dry  ingredients.      Steam  in  a  greased  pudding 

1      mold   for  3  hours.     Fruit  may  be  omitted.     Serve 

with  Hard  Sauce. 

Gingerbread. 

2tb. 
nclted. 

%C. 

1 

1 

Va  c.  sour. 

It. 

2  c. 

Ginger,  1  tb. 

! 
1 

Cup  Cakic,  ok  1,  2, 
3-,  4  Cakr. 

1  c.  si;. 

2  c. 

4 

4 

V2C. 

3t. 

3  c. 

Vanilla,  1  t.,  or  grated 
nutmeg,  Yz  t. 

This  recipe  makes  two  loaves. 

Spice  calce. 

1  c.  sc. 

1  c.  brown. 

1/4  c. 

3 

3 

%c. 

V4t. 

3c. 

Cinnamon,  1  t. 
Allspice,  clove,  and 
nutmeg,  mixed,  1  t. 

Raisins,  Yz  c. 
Currants,  "A  c. 
Citron ,  V4  c. 

Mix  like  any  butter  cake,  adding  the  molasses  to  the 
butter  and  sugar.     Remember  to  add  soda  last. 

Gold  calce. 

VaC.sc. 

IV4  c. 

4 

Vac. 

2t. 

2  c. 

Grated  nutmeg,  Vi  t. 

Make   Gold  and  Silver  cake  at  the  same  time,  to  use 
both  i)arts  of  the  eggs. 

Silver  cake. 

Vac.sc. 

IV4  c. 

4 

y2C. 

2  t. 

2  c. 

Almond  extract,  i^t. 

Juice  and  grated  rind 
of    half    a    lemon. 

Salt,  V4 1. 

Si'ONGifi  Cakk. 

lV4C.powd. 
or  gran. 

5 

5 

IV4  c. 

Baking-powder 
spongo  cake. 

1%  c. 

3 

3 

^c. 

2t. 

P/4C. 

Salt,  14  t. 
Lemon  extract,  Vz  t. 

Sugar  Cookiiss. 

Vi  c. 

Ic. 

1 

1 

V4C. 

2t. 

Enough    to 
roll   out, 
about  3  c. 

A  sprinkling  of  nut- 
meg    after    cookies 
are  cut. 

Mix  like  butter  cakes.    When  stiff  enough  to  roll,  turn 
out  on  a  floured  board,  and  roll  out,  part  at  a  time 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick.      Keep  board  and  pin 
well  floured.     Bake  L-j  minutes  on  shallow  pans. 

Whole-wheat   ginger 
snaps. 

Vac. 

Ic. 

2  lb. 

1 

1 

'^/4t;. 

It. 

V4t.    1  ^Ybole-wlleat 
Flour, 
about  3  c. 

Ginger,  1  tb. 

Roll  as  thin  as  possible. 

SUGAR   AND   SWEETS  269 

or  Cup  Cake  half  a  cup  of  raidns  and  one  fourth  cup  each 
of  currants  and  citron. 

Chocolate  Layer  Cake.  ‚Äî  Bake  Standard  Cake  in  three 
jelly-cake  tins,  and  spread  chocolate  frosting  on  top 
and  between  the  layers. 

Plain  Spice  Cake  is  made  by  omitting  ginger  from  the 
gingerbread  recipe,  and  adding  spice  as  in  Spice  Cake. 

Coffee  Cake.  ‚Äî  Use  coffee  instead  of  water  in  Spice 
Cake. 

Points  to  be  remembered  in  Cake-making 

433.  1.  Use  only  the  best  materials,  ‚Äî  fresh  eggs, 
fine  granulated  sugar,  good  butter.  Otherwise  the  cake 
will  not  pay  for  the  trouble  of  making  it.^ 

2.  If  you  cannot  get  fine  sugar,  sift  what  you  have. 
Sponge  cake  is  better  for  having  both  flour  and  sugar 
sifted  separately  several  times. 

3.  See  that  the  fire  is  so  arranged  that  the  oven  will 
be  ready  when  the  cake  is  mixed. 

4.  If  very  little  butter  is  used,  melt  it  and  add  it  to 
the  sugar,  or  to  the  sugar  and  eggs.  In  cold  weather 
warm  the  bowl  slightly  with  hot  water  before  creaming 
butter.  A  teaspoonful  or  two  of  milk  may  be  added  to 
the  butter  and  sugar,  if  they  are  very  slow  to  cream. 

5.  Cake  containing  molasses  burns  easily.  Bake  such 
cake  and  any  thick  loaves  requiring  long  baking  in  tins 
lined  with  greased  paper. 

1  Pastry  flour  makes  the  tenderest  cake,  but  bread  flour  gives  satis- 
factory results.  If  you  substitute  bread  flour  for  pastry  flour  in  a 
recipe  calling  for  the  latter,  use  but  seven-eighths  of  the  measure 
given. 


270   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

6.  If  cake  browns  within  fifteen  minutes  after  it  is 
put  into  the  oven,  the  heat  is  too  great.  Reduce  it,  or 
make  a  tent  of  brown  paper  over  the  pan,  shaped  like 
this  J  L-  A  pan  of  water  put  into  the  oven  will  reduce 
the  heat.     Explain  why. 

Recipes  for  Cake  Frostings  and  Fillings 

Quick  Frosting  (Boston  School  Kitchen  Text-book) 

Powdered  sugar,     1  cupful. 
Boiling  water,         1  tablespoonful. 
Lemon  juice,  1  tablespoonful. 

Mix  these  ingredients,  and  add  more  boiling  water, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  till  the  sugar  settles  when  you 
cease  stirring.     Spread  on  cake  while  the  latter  is  hot. 

Soft  Frosting 

Granulated  sugar,  }4  cupful.  Water,  X  cupful. 

White  of  1  egg.  Lemon  juice,  1)4  teaspoonfuls. 

Lemon  extract,  }4  teaspoonful. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  till  the  syrup 
boils,  then  boil  it  without  stirring  till  it  threads  (¬ß  418). 
A  little  before  it  reaches  this  point,  beat  the  white-of- 
egg  stiff.  When  the  syrup  threads,  turn  it  into  the 
egg  in  a  fine  stream,  beating  till  smooth,  but  not  thick 
enough  to  drop.  Flavor,  and  pour  over  cake,  spread- 
ing with  a  knife.  If  beaten  too  long,  thin  with  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  or  boiling  water,  and  wet  the  knife 
in  cold  water. 


SUGAR  AND   SWEETS  271 

Chocolate  Icing  or  Filling 

Granulated  sugar,  1  cupful.  Unsweetened  chocolate,  1  ounce. 

Water,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Scrape  the  chocolate  fine,  mix  it  with  the  sugar  and 
water,  and  simmer  about  twenty  minutes,  or  till  thick 
enough  to  spread.     Spread  while  hot  on  the  cake. 

Recipes  for  Pudding  Sauces 

Lemon  Sauce 

Sugar  (brown  or  white),  Yz  cupful. 

Boiling  water,  1  cupful. 

Cornstarch,  1  tablespoonful. 

Butter,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Lemon  juice,  1  tablespoonful. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch,  stir  into  them  the  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  five  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire, 
and  add  butter  and  lemon  juice. 

Variations 

1.  Boil  the  thinly  shaved  rind  of  half  a  lemon  in  the 
water,  straining  it  out  before  adding  the  water  to  the 
sugar  and  cornstarch. 

2.  Add  one  well-beaten  Qgg  after  taking  the  sauce 
from  the  fire. 

A  fruit  sauce  may  be  made  by  thickening  the  syrup 
from  canned  fruit  with  cornstarch.  If  no  more  sugar 
is  required,  how  will  you  keep  the  cornstarch  from 
lumping  ? 


272        THEORY   AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 

Hard  Sauce 

Butter,  }(  cupful.  White  of  1  egg. 

Powdered  sugar,  1  cupful.  Vanilla  extract,  1  teaspoonful. 

Grated  nutmeg,  y^  teaspoonful,  or  >^  of  a  nutmeg. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  white-of-egg  un- 
beaten, and  the  vanilla,  and  beat  together  thoroughly. 
Heap  roughly  in  a  small,  glass  dish,  grate  nutmeg  over 
the  top,  and  keep  cool  until  served. 

DESSERTS 

434.  The  making  of  elaborate  desserts,  except  for 
special  occasions,  is  a  waste  of  time.  A  rich  pudding 
is  unsuitable  after  a  hearty  dinner  ;  fruit  is  the  best 
dessert  after  such  a  meal.  Jellies,  custards,  creams,  and 
combinations  of  these  with  fruit,  when  a  part  of  the 
meal  and  not  eaten  to  please  the  taste  after  hunger  is 
satisfied,  are  desirable  and  wholesome. 

435.  Remarks  about  the  desserts  for  which  recipes  are 
given.  ‚Äî  Some  dessert  dishes  have  been  given  under 
other  headings.  Caramel  Custard  is  a  variation  of  Cup 
Custards  (p.  91).  Bread  Puddings  are  baked  custards 
thickened  with  bread  crumbs.  They  should  be  soft, 
like  custard.  In  making  soft  custard,  use  the  same 
care  that  you  have  in  making  sauces  thickened  with 
eggs.  In  using  tapioca  ^  or  cornstarch,  see  that  the 
starch  is  thoroughly  swollen  and  cooked.  What  other 
reason    is    there    for    cooking   it   thoroughly  ?     Starch 

1  Tapioca  is  manufactured  from  the  root  of  manioc^  a  tropical  tree. 
It  is  almost  pure  starch. 


SUGAR   AND    SWEETS  273 

mixtures  stiffen  in  cooking ;  if  to  be  molded,  take  care 
not  to  have  them  more  than  just  stiff  enough  to  hold 
their  shape  when  cold. 

Caramel  Custard 

^S'g^*  ^'  Extract  of  vanilla,  }4  teaspoonful. 

Sugar,  1}4  tablespoonfuls.     Scalded  milk,  1  pint. 

Sugar  for  caramel,  1  cupful.     Water,  1  tablespoonful. 

Melt  sugar  for  caramel,  stirring  it  constantly  until 
light  brown  in  color.  Reserve  one-half  of  it.  Butter 
custard  cups  and  pour  a  little  caramel  into  each ;  tip 
the  cups  so  as  to  coat  them  with  it. 

After  beating  the  eggs  slightly,  beat  in  the  sugar, 
stir  in  the  milk  and  vanilla,  and  fill  the  cups  nearly 
full.  Bake  like  cup  custards,  and  when  cold  turn  them 
out,  one  on  each  serving  plate.  Serve  with  cold  Cara- 
mel Sauce. 

To  make  caramel  sauce,  add  to  the  caramel  reserved  half 
a  cup  of  boiling  ^  water,  and  keep  it  hot  till  the  caramel 
dissolves. 

Bread-pudding  Recipes 
Plain  Bread  Pudding 

Scalded  milk,  1  quart.  Stale  bread  crumbs  without  crust, 

Sugar,               yi  cupful.  grated  or  rubbed,  2  cupfuls. 

Eggs,                 2.  or 

Salt,                   X  teaspoonful.  Dried  crumbs,        1  cupful. 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly;  beat  into  them  the  sugar 
and  add  the  milk,  spice,  and  salt.     When  the  crumbs 

1  If  the  water  is  not  very  hot  when  poured  in,  the  caramel  will 

spatter. 


274   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

become  soft,  turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  until 
a  knife  inserted  in  the  padding  comes  out  clean. 

Variations  of  Bread  Pudding.  ‚Äî  1.  Add  one  cupful  of 
boiled  raisins^  citron^  and  currants  mixed. 

2.  Separate  the  eggs,  add  only  the  yolks  to  the 
pudding.  Beat  the  whites  stiff ;  beat  into  them  two 
and  a  half  tahlespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  spread 
them  roughly  over  the  pudding,  and  return  it  to  the 
oven  for  two  minutes,  or  till  a  delicate  brown.  , 

3.  ftueen  of  puddings.  ‚Äî  Like  variation  2,  except  omit 
spice,  flavor  with  one  and  a  half  tahlespoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice  and  spread  it  over  with  jam  or  jelly  before 
covering  it  with  meringue. 

Plain  Soft  Custard 

Scalded  milk,  2  cupfuls.  Sugar,  6  tablespoonfuls. 

Egg-yolks,i      3.  Salt,     }i  teaspoonful. 

Vanilla,   Yz  teaspoonful. 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  beat  into  them  the  sugar, 
and  salt,  and  stir  in  slowly  the  hot  milk.  Pour  into 
a  double  boiler,  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  the 
custard  is  thick  enough  to  coat  the  spoon.  Strain  at 
once  through  a  fine  strainer  into  a  cold  pitcher.  When 
cool  stir  in  the  vanilla,  and  pour  into  a  glass  dish  or 
glass  custard  cups  for  serving. 

If  the  custard  cooks  a  moment  too  long,  it  will  curdle. 

1  AVhole  eggs  may  be  used,  but  they  do  not  make  so  smooth  a 
custard.  When  eggs  are  expensive,  two  yolks  may  be  used  instead 
of  three,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cold  milk  being  stirred  into  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and  scalded 
with  it. 


SUGAR   AND    SWEETS  275 

It  is  safer  to  take  it  from  the  fire  before  you  think  it 
quite  done,  as  the  heat  of  the  boiler  cooks  it  even  while 
it  is  being  turned  out.  If  it  begins  to  curdle,  set  the 
upper  part  of  the  boiler  immediately  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  and  beat  the  custard  energetically  with  a  Dover 
egg-beater  till  smooth. 

Apple  Tapioca 
Pearl  or  granulated  tapioca,  4  tablespoonf  uls. 


Tart  apples, 

6. 

Boiling  water, 

1  pint. 

Sugar, 

Yz  cupful. 

Cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 

X  teaspoonful. 

Salt, 

a  few  grains. 

Soak  the  tapioca  over  night  in  one  cupful  of  cold 
water.  Core  and  pare  the  apples,  slice  one  of  them, 
and  cook  it  with  the  tapioca  in  the  boiling  water  till 
the  latter  is  translucent.  Place  the  rest  of  the  apples 
upright  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  over  them 
the  sugar  and  spice,  pour  over  them  the  tapioca  mix- 
ture, and  bake  till  they  are  tender.     Serve  with  sugar 

and  cream. 

Cornstarch  Meringue 

Milk,  1  quart.  Granulated  sugar,  X  cupful. 

Cornstarch,  ^  cupful.  Vanilla  extract,       1  teaspoonful. 

Eggs,  3.  Powdered  sugar,     6  tablespoonfuls. 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  into  it 
the  cornstarch  just  moistened  with  cold  water.  Cook 
directly  over  the  heat  till  it  comes  to  the  boiling-point ; 
then  remove  at  once.  Separate  the  eggs ;  beat  the 
yolks  slightly  by  themselves,  then  with  the  granulated 


276   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

sugar ;  stir  these  into  the  thickened  milk,  cook  all 
together  for  one  minute,  add  the  vanilla,  and  pour  into 
a  baking-dish. 

For  the  meringue.  ‚Äî  Beat  the  whites  till  frothy,  add 
the  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  again.  When  stiff  enough 
to  hold  its  shape,  spread  the  meringue  over  the  pud- 
ding, neaping  it  in  the  middle,  sprinkle  with  poAvdered 
sugar,  and  brown  slightly  in  a  warm  oven.  Serve 
cold. 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding 

Milk,  1  quart.  Sugar,  y^  cupful. 

Rice,  Yz  cupful.  Grated  nutmeg,  a  few  grains. 

Salt,  %  teaspoonful. 

Wash  the  rice.  (¬ß  138.)  Mix  the  ingredients  in 
a  pudding-dish  and  bake  for  three  or  four  hours,  stir- 
ring in  the  brown  crust  as  it  forms.  Or  cook  slowly 
for  a  shorter  time  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove,  stirring 
often.     Serve  cold. 

Half  a  cupful  of  raisins  may  be  added  to  this  recipe. 

Section  3.    Ice-cream  and  Water-ices 

The  daintiest  last  to  make  the  end  most  sweet.  ‚Äî  Shakespeare. 

436.  In  summer  no  other  dessert  is  so  welcome  as 
ice-cream.  With  bread  and  butter,  it  is  a  sufficient 
lunch  on  a  hot  day. 

437.  Ice  and  salt  form  a  freezing  mixture. ‚Äî When 
ice  and  salt  are  mixed,  a  double  action  takes  place  :  the 
salt  makes  the  ice  melt,  and  the  melting  ice  dissolves 


SUGAR   AND   SWEETS  277 

the  salt.  We  have  already  observed  that  heat  is  used 
up  in  changing  matter  from  the  solid  to  the  liquid 
form  (¬ß¬ß  48  and  100).  Melting  ice  and  salt  reach  a  tem- 
perature below  the  freezing-point  of  water.  If  we  pack 
them  around  some  other  liquid,  they  draw  the  heat 
from  it  so  fast  that  it  freezes.  This  is  why  we  use  a 
mixture  of  salt  and  ice  to  freeze  ice-cream. 

Experiment.  ‚Äî  Fill  a  cup  with  cracked  ice ;  take  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  ice  with  a  thermometer.  How  cold  is  the  ice  ?  Mix 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  rock-salt  with  the  ice,  and  watch  the  ther- 
mometer. When  the  mercury  stops  falling,  see  what  degree  of 
cold  it  registers. 

Directions  for  freezing  Cream 

438.  Making  ready.  ‚Äî Put  the  ice  into  a  strong  can- 
vas bag,  or  wrap  it  in  a  piece  of  stout  cloth,  and  pound 
it  fine.  Use  rock-salt  ;  fine  salt  will  not  do.  Scald 
can,  dasher,  and  cover.  Fit  the  can  into  the  socket  in 
the  pail,  pour  in  the  mixture  to  be  frozen,  put  on  the 
cover,  adjust  the  cover  to  the  cross-piece,  and  turn  the 
crank  to  make  sure  that  all  is  in  working  order. 

439.  Packing.  ‚Äî  Fill  the  space  between  the  can  and 
the  pail  with  alternate  layers  of  ice  and  salt,  putting  in 
three  measures  of  ice,  then  one  of  salt.  The  ice  and 
salt  should  come  a  little  above  the  height  at  which  the 
cream  will  stand  in  the  can.  As  the  mixture  expands 
in  freezing,  fill  the  can  not  more  than  three-fourtlis  full. 
Pack  ice  and  salt  solidly,  turning  the  crank  a  few  times 
to  let  the  mixture  settle. 


278   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

440.  Freezing.  ‚Äî  Turn  tlie  crank  slowly  and  steadily 
until  the  cream  is  rather  stiff,  then  turn  more  rapidly. 
Do  not  draw  off  the  water  unless  it  stands  so  high  that 
there  is  danger  of  its  getting  into  the  can.  The  cream 
should  take  about  twenty  minutes  to  freeze ;  cream 
frozen  too  rapidly,  or  not  well  stirred,  is  coarse- 
grained. 

When  the  dasher  turns  very  hard,  the  cream  is  suffi- 
ciently frozen.  Remove  the  dasher,  wipe  the  outside  of 
the  cover  and  the  upper  part  of  the  can  (to  avoid  letting 
in  any  salt  water),  and  take  off  the  cover.  Scrape  the 
cream  from  the  sides  of  the  can,  and  pack  it  down  level. 
Put  a  cork  into  the  hole  in  the  cover,  and  replace  it. 
Draw  off  the  salt  water  through  the  hole  near  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pail,  repack  with  ice  and  salt,  and  cover 
with  an  old  blanket  or  a  piece  of  carpet.  Let  the  cream 
stand  in  the  freezer  at  least  one  hour,  two,  if  possible, 
to  "  ripen  "  before  serving.  This  greatly  improi^es  its 
flavor. 

441.  Water-ices.  ‚Äî  Freeze  water-ices  like  cream,  except 
that  the  crank  need  not  be  turned  constantly.  A  few 
turns  every  five  minutes  is  enough. 

442.  How  to  make  ice-cream  without  a  freezer.  ‚Äî  Ice- 
cream can  be  made  in  a  tin  pail  packed  in  a  wooden 
pail.  Whirl  the  pail  round  by  its  handle,  taking  off  the 
cover  occasionally  to  scrape  down  and  beat  the  cream. 
A  small  quantity  can  be  made  in  a  baking-powder  can 
set  into  a  pail  or  saucepan.  Before  using  the  can,  fill 
it  with  water  to  see  if  it  leaks.       Most  cans  require 


SUGAR   AND   SWEETS  279 

soldering.     A  tinman  will  do  it  cheaply,  or  you  can  get 
a  stick  of  solder  and  do  it  yourself. 

Recipes 

Plain  Ice-cream 

By  varying  the  flavor  this  cream  may  be  used  as  the 
foundation  for  any  kind  of  ice-cream.  It  may  be  made 
with  three  eggs  and  no  cream,  but  even  half  a  cupful 
of  cream  is  a  great  improvement. 

Milk,    1  pint.  Flour,    2  tablespoonfuls. 

Sugar,  1  cupful.  Cream,  1  pint. 

Eggs,    2. 

Scald  the  milk,  mix  the  sugar,  flour,  and  eggs  to- 
gether, and  make  a  custard  according  to  the  directions 
for  making  Soft  Custard  (p.  274).  When  cold,  stir 
the  cream  into  it,  and  freeze. 

Flavorings.  ‚Äî Vanilla  Cream.  Add  one  tablespoonf  ul  of 
vanilla,  just  before  freezing.  Chocolate  Ice-cream.  ‚Äî  Add 
four  ounces  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  melted.  Straw- 
berry Ice-cream.  ‚Äî  Add  one  box  of  berries,  crushed. 
Peach  Ice-cream.  ‚Äî Add  one  quart  of  peaches,  pared  and 
mashed. 

Lemon  Ice 

Lemons,  4  large  ones.  Sugar,   1%  pounds. 

Oranges,  1.  Water,  1  quart. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water  by  boiling  them 
together  five  minutes.  Add  the  grated  rind  of  the 
orange  and  of  one  lemon.  Add  the  juice  of  the  orange 
and  lemons.     When  the  syrup  is  cool,  strain  and  freeze. 


CHAPTER   X 
THE  PRESERVATION   OP  POOD 

Section    1.     The  Spoiling   of  Pood:    What  Bacteria 
have  to  do  with  it 

Vast  hordes  of  tiny  toilers  are  working  in  our  service  night  and 
day  to  keep  the  world  wholesome  and  all  the  races  of  beings  supplied 
with  life-stuff.  ‚Äî  T.  M.  Prudden. 

443.  Microscopic  plants.  ‚Äî  We  have  learned  that 
mold  is  a  tiny  plant,  and  that  yeast  and  bacteria 
belong  to  plant  families  related  to  it  (pp.  32,  33). 
Bacteria,  we  have  found,  may  do  us  harm.  What  pre- 
cautions have  we  used  to  keep  them,  so  far  as  is  pos- 
sible, out  of  our  houses,  and  particularly,  out  of  our 
food  and  drinking-water  ? 

It  is  a  mistake,  however,  to  think  all  bacteria  harm- 
ful. 

A  Study  of  Bacteria 

444.  Experiment  in  growing  bacteria.  ‚Äî  Expose  a  little  clear, 
cool  soup-stock  to  the  air  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  cover  it  with  a 
piece  of  clean  glass,  set  it  aside  in  a  rather  warm  place,  and  look 
at  it  every  day.  What  happens  to  it  ?  How  does  it  smell  after  a 
few  days  ?     What  do  we  say  has  happened  to  it? 

445.  Microscopic  examination.  ‚Äî  A.  Examine  under  a  micro- 
scope a  speck  from  one  of  the  cloudy  spots  on  the  soup-stock,  or 
any  other  spoiled  food.     What  is  it  made  up  of  ? 

280 


THE   PRESERVATION    OF   FOOD 


281 


B.  Examine  from  time  to  time  a  drop  from  a  glass  of  water 
allowed  to  stand  undisturbed.  The  drop  is  crowded  with  little 
living  things.  Can  you  pick  out  some  shaped  like  lead-pencils, 
others  like  eggs  or  billiard-balls,  and  still  others  like  corkscrews  ? 
Make  sketches  of  them. 


446.    Bacteria    compared  with    yeast.  ‚Äî  Bacteria    are 
single-celled  forms  of  plant-life,  like  yeast;   and,  like  it, 
^^,_^^_,^^  they  multiply  when 


they  have  warmth 
and  food  and  mois- 
ture.   They  exist  in 


QD 


%: 


o 
oo 


cPOo 


Fig.  15.  ‚Äî  Shapes  and  groupings  of  differ- 
ent kinds  of  bacteria  (much  enlarged). 


Fig.  16.  ‚Äî  Bacteria  caus- 
ing typhoid  fever,  as 
seen  under  the  micro- 
scope. 


far  greater  numbers  than  yeasts  do,  however,  swarming 
in  the  air,  in  water,  in  the  ground  under  our  feet.  One 
kind  is  so  small  that  fifteen  hundred  in  a  row  would 
hardly  reach  across  the  head  of  a  pin. 


447.    The  life-history  of  bacteria.  ‚Äî  Bacteria  multiply 
by  dividing  themselves  in  two,  repeating  this  process 


282   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

so  frequently  that  were  there  food  and  room  enough 
for  them  all,  the  world  would  soon  be  crowded  with 
bacteria.  But  there  is  no  danger  of  this  coming  to 
pass  ;  for  they  die  by  millions  constantly,  one  kind 
preying  upon  another,  while  all  kinds  are  destroyed  by 
the  occurrence  of  conditions  unfavorable  to  life.  Cold 
checks  their  activity  and  growtli ;  the  temperature  of 
boiling  water,  sometimes  a  lower  temperature,  kills 
them.  Dry  heat  is  not  so  fatal  to  them  as  moist  heat. 
They  have  a  way,  when  food  and  water  are  scarce,  of 
entering  upon  a '' resting-stage."  This  corresponds,  in 
a  way,  to  the  "going  to  seed"  of  bigger  plants  when 
winter  comes  on.  The  lively,  growing  bacteria  dis- 
appear, but  not  till  after  they  have  produced  spores,  as 
yeast  does  when  it  gets  old  (¬ß  225).  These  little 
spores  are  hard  to  kill  ;  they  seem  able  to  last  forever, 
ready  to  spring  into  life  when  right  conditions  return. 

448.  Fermentation  and  putrefaction.  ‚Äî  The  life-history 
of  bacteria  closely  resembles  that  of  yeast.  Let  us 
compare  the  action  of  yeast  upon  sugar  with  the  action 
of  bacteria  upon  soup-stock.  The  first  is  fermentation, 
the  second  putrefaction.  In  both  cases  organic  matter 
is  split  into  something  simpler,  but  fermentation  im- 
proves the  flavor  of  the  dough,  and  produces  carbon 
dioxide  to  make  it  porous,  while  putrefaction  spoils 
good  food,  and  generates  unpleasant-smelling  gases. 
Some  bacteria  cause  undesirable  fermentation  ;  for 
example,  that  which  takes  place  in  fruit  improperly 
canned. 


THE   PRESERVATION    OF   FOOD  283 

449.  Death  and  decay  are  necessary  to  life.  ‚Äî  On  first 
thoughts  the  work  of  bacteria,  particularly  the  bacteria 
of  putrefaction,  does  not  compare  favorably  with  the 
work  done  by  yeast.  But  if  there  were  no  decay,  the 
surface  of  the  earth  would  become  loaded  with  dead 
matter  in  useless  form,  and  after  a  time  no  plants 
would  grow  because  the  earth  would  have  no  food  for 
them.  You  see  now  that  we  could  not  live  Avithout 
bacteria.  These  "  tiny  toilers "  feed  upon  what  has 
been  called  the  "  broken-down  remnants  of  things  once 
alive,"  reducing  them,  finally,  to  inorganic  substances 
suitable  to  be  taken  up  by  plants  and  again  made 
into  living  matter.  Thus  bacteria  form  an  invisible 
link  between  us  and  the  dust;  a  link  essential  to  the 
continuance  of  life  on  the  globe. 

450.  Ways  of  preserving  food;  preservatives.  ‚Äî  Condi- 
tions favorable  to  the  growth  of  yeast  being,  in  general, 
favorable  to  the  growth  of  bacteria,  a  simple  rule  to 
keep  the  latter  from  troubling  us  is  to  treat  them  in 
just  the  opposite  way  from  that  we  took  to  make  yeast 
thrive  and  grow.  That  is  to  say,  keep  food  cold,  or 
dry  it,  or  cook  it.  Cooking  is  effective  for  a  time  only, 
unless  the  food  cooked  be  immediately  sealed  up  so 
that  no  other  bacteria  can  reach  it.  A  fourth  way  of 
preserving  food  is  to  add  a  disinfectant  (¬ß  59)  to  it 
if  it  is  liquid,  or  to  coat  it  with  a  disinfectant  if  it  is 
solid. 

Disinfectants  used  on  food  are  called  preservatives. 
Preservatives  injurious  to  health  are  often  used  in  can- 


284   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

ning  factories  and  by  dealers  in  meat,  milk,  and  other 
food. 

The  process  of  destroying  bacterial  life  is  called  ster- 
ilization, and  anything  that  has  undergone  this  process 
is  said  to  be  sterilized. 

Salt  has  a  preservative  effect  on  food,  as  has  sugar, 
when  used  in  large  quantities. 

Dr.  T.  Mitchell  Prudden  has  -written  three  interesting  little 
books  about  bacteria :  The  Story  of  the  Bacteria,  Dust  and  Its 
Dangers,  and  Drinking-ivater  and  Ice  Supplies.  The  last  is  perhaps 
the  simplest. 

"  The  Bacteriology  of  Household  Preserving,"  American  Kitchen 
Magazine,  September,  1898,  is  practical  and  helpful. 

Section  2.    Canning  and  Jelly-making 

451.  We  do  well  to  take  a  lesson  from  the  bees,  and 
in  the  long  summer  days  to  store  up  food  for  the  win- 
ter. If  we  can  kill  the  bacteria  in  food,  and  then  seal 
it  up  so  that  no  more  can  get  in,  it  will  keep  indefi- 
nitely.    This  we  do  in  canning. 

CANNING 

452.  Can  each  kind  of  fruit  in  its  season,  when  it  is 
best  and  cheapest.  Select  it  under-ripe  rather  than 
over-ripe.  To  insure  success  in  preserving  it  observe 
carefully  the  following  directions  :  ‚Äî 

453.  Preparing  the  jars.  ‚Äî  For  a  small  family  use 
pint  jars.  Buy  jars  with  tight-fitting  covers,  and  fit 
them  each  year  with  new  rubber  rings.     Old  rubber 


PLATE  XIT. 


HI 

^^^^^^^^^^Mk^^^w   "^ 

i 

^HIME~ ‚Äî                              9^"^   '^^^‚ñÝik 

IS^^^'^^^^^^^^^^B/im 

Filling  Fruit-jars. 


Scales  Jars  Jelly-bag  Measures 

Jelly-tuinblcr  Siuicepan,  with  perforated  wooden  mat  to  stand 

Cover  and  ring  jars  upob 

Strainer  Skimmer  Funnel  Paraffin 

Silver  spoon 
"Wooden  spoon 

Utensils  used  in  Canning  and  Jelly-making. 


THE    PRESERVATION    OF    FOOD  285 

becomes  porous,  and  lets  in  air.  Fit  each  jar  with 
a  ring  and  a  cover  ;  pour  water  into  them,  and  invert 
them  to  see  if  they  are  air-tight.  If  not,  do  not  use 
them.  Sterilize  jars  and  covers  by  placing  them  in  a 
dishpan  of  cold  water  and  letting  this  slowly  come  to 
the  boiling-point,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

454.  Preparing  and  cooking  the  fruit;  strawberries. ‚Äî 
Wash  and  hull  the  berries  ;  weigh  them,  and  add  one- 
third  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  fruit. 
Let  them  stand  for  forty-five  minutes  or  longer.  Cook 
the  berries  slowly  until  the  juice  is  thick  and  syrupy, 
and  the  berries  soft.     Remove  scum  as  it  rises. 

455.  Peaches.  ‚Äî  Pare  the  peaches,  dropping  them  into 
cold  water.  Why  not  leave  them  in  the  air  ?  Make  a 
syrup,  allowing  two  cups  of  water  and  one  pound  of 
sugar  to  three  pounds  of  peaches  ;  boil  it  fifteen  min- 
utes. Cut  peaches  into  two,  stone  them,  and  put 
peaches  and  stones  into  the  syrup.  The  flavor  of 
peaches  is  improved  by  cooking  the  stones  with  them. 
Cook  the  fruit  until,  when  tried  with  a  knitting  needle, 
it  is  found  to  be  soft. 

Pears,  cherries,  apples,  and  plums  may  be  canned  like 
peaches. 

456.  General  directions  for  filling  jars.  ‚Äî  Remove  the 
jars  from  the  boiling  water,  and  stand  them  on  a  cloth 
wet  in  boiling  water.  What  would  happen  to  the  jar 
if  set  while  hot  on  a  cold  table  ?  Place  a  silver  spoon 
in  the  jar  to  be  filled  first.     Silver,  being  a  good  con- 


286   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

ductor  of  heat,  absorbs  heat  from  the  fruit,  thus  further 
lessening  the  risk  of  the  jar's  breaking.  Dip  a  rubber 
ring  into  boiling  water  (to  sterilize  it),  and  place  it  on 
the  jar.  Dip  a  silver  spoon  into  boiling  water,  and 
with  it  fill  the  jar  with  fruit  ;  then  fill  the  jar  to  over- 
flowing with  syrup.  With  the  handle  of  the  spoon 
press  the  fruit  away  from  the  side  of  the  jar,  that  any 
air-bubbles  between  may  escape.  Put  on  the  cover, 
and  screw  it  tight.  Turn  the  jar  upside  down  ;  if 
syrup  oozes  out,  remove  cover  and  rubber,  put  on  an- 
other rubber,  refill  with  boiling  syrup,  and  again  screw 
down  the  cover.     The  jars  must  be  sealed  air-tight. 

Directions  for  Canning  Tomatoes 

Select  small,  round,  smooth  tomatoes  :  scald  and  peel 
them.  Pack  them  in  sterilized  jars  and  fill  the  jars  with 
boiling  water.  Sterilize  the  covers  and  put  them  on 
without  screwing  down.  Set  the  jars  on  small  blocks 
of  wood  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  and  let  the  water  heat 
slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  the  covers,  fill  the 
jars  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water,  put  on  the 
rubber  rings,  and  screw  the  covers  down. 

JELLY-MAKING 

457.  Before  the  principles  of  sterilizing  were  under- 
stood, fruit  was  preserved  by  cooking  it  with  its  weight  of 
sugar.     Only  jellies  are  commonly  done  in  this  way  now. 

458.  Pectin.  ‚Äî  The  juice  of  fruits  that  contain  con- 
siderable pectin  can  be  made  into  jelly.    Pectin,  although 


THE   PRESERVATION    OF   FOOD  287 

a  carbohydrate,  in  some  ways  resembles  gelatin.  It  dis- 
solves in  boiling  water,  and  stiffens  on  cooling.  It  is 
most  abundant  in  the  harder  parts  of  the  fruit,  the  core 
and  skin.  From  what  animal  tissues  is  gelatin  obtained  ? 
Apples,  quinces,  crab  apples,  currants,  and  grapes  make 
the  h est  jellies. 

General  Directions  for  making  Jelly 

459.  Wash  the  fruit,  and  remove  stems  and  imper- 
fections. Cut  large  fruit  into  pieces.  With  watery 
fruits,  such  as  grapes  and  currants,  use  no  water.  With 
apples  and  quinces  use  enough  water  to  cover  them. 
Cook  the  fruit  until  the  juice  flows,  crushing  it  with  a 
spoon.  Remove  it  from  the  fire  and  strain  it  through 
a  pointed  bag  hung  from  the  ceiling  or  between  two 
chairs.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag  at  first  ;  when  nearly 
all  has  strained  through,  the  bag  may  be  squeezed.  Keep 
this  last  juice  by  itself  ;  the  jelly  made  from  it  will  not 
be  clear,  but  can  be  used  for  jelly-cake,  etc.  Measure 
the  juice,  and  put  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  in  the 
oven  to  heat.  Boil  the  juice  until  the  jelly  thickens 
slightly  when  dropped  on  a  cold  plate.  Pour  into 
sterilized  jelly  glasses,  and  set  aside  to  harden. 

For  quince  jelly,  cut  quinces  into  quarters  without 
paring  or  coring,  cover  with  water,  and  cook  until  soft. 
Strain,  and  proceed  according  to  General  Directions  for 
Making  Jelly. 

460.  Jelly  must  be  covered  to  protect  it  from  mold. 
Paraffin  is  convenient  for  this  purpose. 


288   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

To  cover  jelly  with  paraffin.  ‚Äî  Melt  the  paraffin  in  a 
saucepan  and  pour  it  over  the  jelly  to  the  depth  of 
about  one-eighth  of  an  inch.  If,  on  cooling,  any  bubbles 
form,  exposing  the  surface  of  the  jelly,  add  another  coat 
of  paraffin. 

Helpful  Hints  about  Canning  and  Jelly- 
making 

461.  1.  Use  an  enamelled- ware  saucepan,  and  a 
wooden  spoon.     Why  ? 

2.  Use  the  best  granulated  sugar  obtainable  ;  avoid 
any  on  which  a  bluish  scum  forms  in  boiling. 

3.  After  filling  fruit- jars,  let  them  stand  upside 
down  over  night.  In  the  morning,  screw  the  tops  down 
as  tightly  as  possible,  wipe  the  jars  carefully,  label  them, 
and  put  them  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

4.  Fruit  that  is  unusually  watery,  as  it  is  likely  to 
be  just  after  a  rain,  may  not  make  good  jelly.  In  order 
to  evaporate  the  surplus  water,  the  juice  has  to  be 
cooked  so  long  that  the  pectin  becomes  sticky. 

5.  Before  using  the  jelly-bag  sterilize  it  by  dipping 
it  in  boiling  water. 


CHAPTER   XI 


SPECIAL  DIETS 


Section  1.    Diet  for  Babies  ‚Äî  Special  Preparations  of 

Milk 

Child-building  is  an  art.  ‚Äî  Anna  Virginia  Miller. 

462.  Nature's  food  for  a  baby,  its  mother's  milk,  is 
the  best  food  it  can  have.  It  is  as  perfectly  adapted  for 
the  baby  as  cow's  milk  is  for  the  calf,  the  egg  for  the 
unhatched  chick,  and  the  seed  for  the  seedling. 

463.  Difference  between  cow's  milk  and  "mother's" 
milk.  ‚Äî  The  food  next  best  to  this  is  that  most  nearly 
like  it.  Cow's  milk  has  about  the  same  percentage 
of  water  as  woman's  milk  ;  but  it  has  more  proteid 
and  mineral  matter,  a  little  less  fat,  and  not  nearly  so 
much  sugar.  1      It  is  also  thicker  than  the  latter,  and 

1  AVERAGE   COMPOSITION   OF   COW'S   MILK   AND 
WOMAN'S   MILK 


Water 

Fat 

Sugar 

Proteids 

Mineral 
Matter 

Cow's  milk   .  . 
Woman's  milk 

87.50 
87.30 

3.50 
4.00 

4.30 
7.00 

4.00 
1.50 

.70 

.20 

289 


290   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

slightly  acid  when  delivered,  while  a  woman's  milk  is 
always  alkaline. 

464.  Modified  milk.  ‚Äî  By  diluting  cow's  milk  with 
Avater  to  reduce  the  proportion  of  proteids,  and  adding 
cream  and  milk  sugar,  a  compound  similar  to  the  baby's 
natural  food  is  produced.  There  seem  to  be  properties 
in  the  latter  that  cannot  be  produced  by  mixing  one  lot 
of  milk  with  cream  from  another  lot,  and  sugar  prepared 
from  a  third.  This  modified  milk  is,  nevertheless,  the 
best  food  for  bottle  feeding.  It  is  prepared  according 
to  exact  recipes,  or  formulas,  different  formulas  being 
used  for  babies  of  different  ages.  The  following  table  ^ 
gives  the  three  most  commonly  used.  The  first  is 
intended  for  a  baby  from  three  to  seven  days  old,  the 
second  for  one  between  one  and  three  months  old,  the 
third  for  one  six  to  nine  months  old. 


Ingredients. 

QUANTITIES. 

2 

3 

Milk 

1|  OZ. 

2  oz. 

8  oz. 

Cream 

21  oz. 

4  oz. 

4  oz. 

Water 

20    oz. 

18  oz. 

12  oz. 

Milk  sugar      .     .     . 

1|  oz.  or  3  tb. 

1^  oz.  or  3  tb. 

1|  oz.  or  3  tb. 

1  These  formulas  are  from  The  Diseases  of  Infancy  and  Childhood^ 
by  L.  Emmett  Holt,  M.D. 


SPECIAL   DIETS  291 

Usually  lime-water  or  baking-soda  is  added.  Each 
recipe  makes  about  twenty-five  ounces.  As  all  babies, 
even  of  the  same  age,  do  not  require  exactly  the  same 
food,  the  physician  usually  directs  its  preparation. 

465.  Directions  for  preparing  modified  milk.  ‚Äî  Dissolve 
the  milk  sugar  in  the  water,  which  should  be  boiling 
hot.  Filter  this  through  cotton,  add  the  milk  and 
cream,  and  the  lime-water  or  baking-soda.  A  measur- 
ing-glass on  which  the  ounces  are  marked  is  used  for 
measuring.  Mix  in  a  pitcher,  and  if  the  milk  does  not 
require  heating,  divide  it  into  as  many  bottles  as  the 
baby  has  meals  in  a  day. 

466.  Pasteurizing.  ‚Äî  Most  milk  requires  heating  to 
render  harmless  the  germs  it  contains.  To  sterilize  it 
completely,  it  would  have  to  be  boiled  for  one  hour  and 
a  half.  But  milk  treated  in  this  way  does  not  agree 
with  or  nourish  children  as  well  as  fresh  milk.  Pasteur- 
izing, a  process  named  after  the  famous  French  bacteri- 
ologist, Pasteur,  is  preferable.  Pasteurizing  consists 
in  keeping  the  milk  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  at  a 
temperature  of  160¬∞  to  170¬∞  F.  This  kills  all  active  bac- 
teria, and  destroys  the  spores  of  tuberculosis  (consump- 
tion), typhoid  fever,  diphtheria,  cholera,  and  all  fever- 
producing  germs.  Pasteurized  milk  may  keep  sweet 
and  good  for  several  days,  but  it  is  best  to  prepare  every 
morning  the  quantity  needed  for  the  day. 

Home-made  pasteurizers.  ‚Äî  A  convenient  pasteurizing 
apparatus  can  be  bought,  but  a  large  kettle,  one  dish- 
pan  covered  by  another,  or  even  a  wash-boiler  will  do. 


292   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


There  must  be  some  sort  of  a  frame  or  rack  to  hold  the 
bottles.  A  home-made  pasteurizer  is  shown  in  the  illus- 
tration (Plate  XI,  facing  p.  254).  This  consists  of  a 
covered  pail  and  a  tin  plate  with  holes  cut  in  it  to  fit 
the  bottles.  The  plate  is  placed  bottom  up  on  blocks 
in  the  pail. 

467.   Right  and  wrong  sorts  of  bottles.  ‚Äî A  feeding-bottle 

should  have  a  rounded  bottom  and  a  rubber  tip  fitted  to 

its  neck.  Cylindrical  bot- 
tles holding  eight  ounces 
and  having  the  ounces 
marked  in  the  glass  are 
best.  If  bottles  with  flat 
bottoms  are  used,  there  is 


Feeding-bottles,  correct  shapes  ; 
bottle-cleaner. 


Improper  style  of  feeding-bot- 
tle, showing  tip  collapsed. 


danger  that  they  will  be  allowed  to  stand  with  milk  in 
them.  Tips  should  be  so  made  that  they  will  not  col- 
lapse. The  hole  should  be  large  enough  to  let  the  milk 
drop  rapidly,  but  not  run  in  a  stream  when  the  bottle 
is  held  upside  down.  Never  use  a  tube.  It  cannot  be 
kept  clean,  and  the  sour  milk  that  collects  in  it  is  poi- 
son to  a  baby.      (Fig.  17.) 


SPECIAL   DIETS  293 

468.  Care  of  bottles  and  tips.  ‚Äî  Before  using  new 
bottles,  wash  them  thoroughly  with  cold  water  and 
fill  them  with  a  solution  of  baking-soda  (one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  to  one  pint  of  water).  Let  them  stand 
awhile,  then  rinse  them  with  boiling  water,  and  boil 
them  for  fifteen  minutes  to  sterilize  them.  Let  them 
cool  slowly  in  the  water.  On  taking  them  out  plug 
them  tightly  with  wads  of  cotton  that  have  been  steril- 
ized by  baking  in  the  oven  for  an  hour.  Do  not  take 
out  the  cotton  till  milk  is  to  be  put  in.  Clean,  sterilize, 
and  plug  the  bottles  after  every  feeding. 

469.  Directions  for  pasteurizing  milk.  ‚Äî  Pour  water 
into  the  bottom  of  the  can  or  pail  holding  the  bottles. 
It  must  not  be  deep  enough  to  touch  them.  The  steam 
surrounding  the  bottles  heats  them.  Let  the  water  boil 
for  twenty  minutes,  then  take  the  bottles  out,  and  cool 
them  quickly  by  setting  them  into  a  pail  of  cold  water. 

470.  Cleanliness  of  milk  and  milk  utensils.  ‚Äî  Milk  for  a 
baby  should  be  of  the  best  quality,  and  as  fresh  a^ 
possible.  Observe  carefully  the  directions  for  the  care 
of  milk,  on  p.  94.  Scald  all  pitchers,  spoons,  measur- 
ing-glasses, and  other  utensils  before  letting  them  touch 
the  milk.  Never  remove  the  cotton  from  a  bottle  of 
pasteurized  milk  until  ready  to  put  the  rubber  tip  on. 
The  cotton  serves  as  a  strainer  to  filter  bacteria  out  of 
air  passing  through  it ;  if  removed,  bacteria  from  the 
air  will  fall  into  the  milk. 

471.  How  much  and  how  often  to  give  food.  ‚Äî  A  common 
error  in  feeding  babies  is  to  give  too  much  at  a  time. 


294   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

You  will  probably  be  surprised  to  learn  how  small  a 
baby's  stomach  is.  A  new-born  baby's  stomach  holds 
only  a  little  more  than  two  tablespoonfuls,  that  of  a 
six-months-old  baby  about  three-fourths  of  a  cupful. 
For  this  reason  it  can  take  but  little  food  at  a  time,  and 
so  must  be  fed  often.  A  graduated  bottle  makes  it 
easy  to  regulate  the  quantity  given.  Give  milk  at 
regular  intervals  ;  it  is  a  great  mistake  to  feed  a  baby 
whenever  you  happen  to  think  of  it,  or  Avhenever  it 
cries. 

Giving  the  bottle.  ‚Äî  Heat  the  milk  lukewarm  by  letting 
the  bottle  stand  in  warm  water  for  a  few  minutes. 
When  giving  the  bottle,  hold  it  so  that  the  neck  is  kept 
full  of  milk.  Otherwise  the  baby  will  swallow  air. 
Take  the  bottle  from  the  child's  mouth  occasionally  to 
let  the  child  rest.  Any  milk  left  in  the  bottle  must  he 
thrown  aivay  ;  never  give  it  to  the  child  a  second  time. 

A  haby  needs  water.  This  should  be  boiled,  cooled, 
and  kept  covered.  Give  even  a  little  baby  a  teaspoon- 
ful  or  two  occasionally. 

472.  Food  other  than  milk  given  to  babies.  ‚Äî  Barley 
water  or  oatmeal  water  are  sometimes  added  to  milk, 
not  to  increase  its  nutritive  value,  but  because  they 
seem  to  aid  the  digestion  of  the  milk.^ 

To  make  barley  water,  wash  one  teaspoonful  of  pearl 

1  Until  a  baby  is  nearly  a  year  old  it  cannot  digest  starch,  the  fer- 
ments in  the  saliva  and  pancreatic  juice  not  being  fully  developed  till 
then.  If  nature  meant  a  baby  to  have  starch,  there  would  be  starch 
in  milk.     Patent  baby  foods  should  never  be  used  unless  ordered  by  a 


SPECIAL   DIETS  295 

harley^  and  put  it  into  07ie  pint  of  cold  water.  Let  it 
come  to  the  boiling-point,  and  boil  till  reduced  to  two- 
thirds  the  original  quantity.  Or  cook  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  harley  flour  in  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Use  barley  water 
instead  of  clear  water  to  dilute  the  milk. 

Peptonized  milk.  ‚Äî  Peptonized  milk  has  been  wholly 
or  partially  digested  by  pepsin.  "  Pancreatized  milk" 
would  be  a  better  name,  as  pancreatin,  an  extract  of  the 
pancreas,  is  now  generally  used  instead  of  pepsin. 

F%v  directions  for  peptonizing  milk,  see  p.  302. 

If  the  child  is  not  well  the  doctor  may  prescribe  beef 
juice  or  some  kind  of  broth  to  be  given  besides  milk  or, 
for  a  few  days,  instead  of  milk. 

473.  Condensed  milk  is  poor  food  for  a  baby.  Its 
being  sterilized  makes  it  difficult  of  digestion,  and  the 
quantity  of  cane-sugar  in  it  is  much  too  large  in  pro- 
portion to  its  other  foodstuffs.  This  sugar  makes  fat, 
but  not  healthy  flesh.  Babies  fed  on  it  are  plump  and 
white-fleshed,  but  rarely  grow  up  strong.  It  may  be 
used  for  a  little  while  if  fresh  milk  is  not  obtainable. 

474.  Food  during  the  second  year.  ‚Äî  Milk  should  be  the 
basis  of  the  diet  all  through  the  second  year.  At 
about  twelve  months  of  age  gruel  and  beef  juice  may 
be  given ;  after  the  eighteenth  month,  scraped  beef 
(not  more  than  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  at  a  time), 

doctor.  Most  of  them  contain  starch,  many  of  those  advertised  as 
having  their  starch  already  digested  by  malt  or  some  other  ferment, 
containing  large  quantities  of  starch  unchanged.  Certain  patent 
cereal  foods  are  desirable  for  a  baby  old  enough  to  digest  starch. 


296   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

soft-cooked  eggs  once  or  twice  a  week,  bread  dried  in 
the  oven,  and  the  pulp  of  a  baked  apple  or  of  stewed 
prunes.  After  two  years,  milk  toast,  mush,  rennet 
custard,  and  plain  starchy  puddings  may  be  given. 

475.  What  the  baby  must  not  have.  ‚Äî  Give  neither 
solid  nor  starchy  food  to  a  baby  under  one  year  old. 
Of  course,  a  baby  must  not  have  a  drop  of  tea,  coffee, 
beer,  or  any  alcoholic  liquor.  No  child  under  three 
years  of  age  should  taste  pork,  veal,  pastry,  cakes, 
candy,  fried  food,  highly  seasoned  dishes,  or  any 
''  indigestible  "   food. 

Reading.  ‚Äî  Three  articles  in  the  American  Kitchen  Magazine: 
"  The  Souring  of  Milk,"  December,  1895 ;  "  Milk  Fermentation," 
January,  1896;  and  "Bacteria  affecting  Butter  and  Cheese,"  Feb- 
ruary, 1897.     Facts  about  Milk,  Farmers'  Bulletin  42. 


Section  2.    Diet  for  the  Sick 

Taste  the  food  that  stands  before  you  ; 
It  is  blessed  and  enchanted. 
It  has  magic  virtues  in  it. 

‚Äî  Longfellow. 

476.  Importance  of  proper  diet  in  cases  of  sickness. ‚Äî 
Preparing  and  administering  the  patient's  food  is  an 
important  part  of  a  nurse's  work.  Recovery,  in  many 
cases,  depends  more  upon  proper  food  than  upon  medi- 
cine. The  doctor  will  tell  you  what  to  give  the  patient; 
but  the  more  you  know  about  food,  cooking,  and  diges- 
tion, the  more  intelligently  you  will  be  abla  to  carry  out 
his  orders. 


SPECIAL   DIETS 


297 


477.  Three  kinds  of  diet.  ‚Äî  Diets  for  the  sick  are  classi- 
fied as  liquid,  light,  and  convalescent.  Liquid  diet 
consists  entirely  of  liquid  food.  In  typhoid  fever,  and 
sometimes  in  other  cases  of  severe  illness,  nothing  but 
milk  is  given  for  a  long  time.  But  usually  beef  juice 
or  beef  tea,  broths,  gruels,  and,  in  fevers,  cooling  drinks 
are  included  in  liquid  diet.  Hot  milk  or  cocoa,  given 
at  night,  induces  sleep ;  tea  and  coffee  are  usually  for- 
bidden at  all  times,  as  too  stimulating.  Wine  or 
liquor  should  never  be  given  unless  prescribed  by  the 
physician. 

Light  diet  is  used  in  less  severe  illnesses,  or  when  a 
patient  that  has  been  very  sick  begins  to  improve.  It 
includes  everything  belonging  to  liquid  diet,  and,  in 
addition,  soft-cooked  eggs,  soup,  gelatine  jellies,  soft 
puddings,  custards,  fruit,  and  a  little  game,  poultry,  or 
tender  meat. 

Convalescent  diet  includes  all  ordinary  dishes  except 
those  particularly  difficult  of  digestion.  The  change 
from  one  diet  to  another  should  be  made  gradually. 
Below  are  given  examples  of  each  of  these  three  kinds 
of  diet. 

Liquid  Diet  for  One  Day 


8  A.M.       .       .       . 

Hot  milk,  ^  cupful. 

10  A.M.       .       .       . 

Chicken  broth,  ^  cupful. 

12  A.M.       .       .       . 

Eggnog. 

2  P.M.       .       .       . 

Hot  milk,  Yz  cupful. 

4  P.M.       .       .       . 

Milk  punch,  or  Kumiss,  a  glassful. 

6  P.M.       .       .       . 

Chicken  broth,  ^  cupful. 

8  P.M.      .      .      . 

Cocoa,  %  cupful. 

298   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Light  Diet  for  One  Day 

breakfast 

Poached  egg  on  toast.  Coffee. 

LUNCH 

Soft  custard. 

DINNER 

Broiled  mutton  chop.  Dry  toast. 

LUNCH 

Irish-moss  jelly. 

SUPPER 

Milk  toast.  Cocoa. 

Convalescent  Diet  for  One  Day 

breakfast 

Mush  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Minced  chicken  on  toast.  AVhole-wheat  muffins. 

Coffee. 

DINNER 

Soup  with  rice. 

Broiled  beefsteak.  Baked  potatoes. 

Peas.  Bread  and  butter. 

Snow  pudding. 

Tea  or  coffee. 

SUPPER 

Coddled  eggs.  Toast. 

Lemon  jelly.         Sponge  cake. 

Cocoa. 

478.  Sick  people  fed  like  children.  ‚Äî  You  see  that  in- 
valids have  the  same  sort  of  food  that  children  do,  given, 
as  it  is  to  children,  frequently  and  in  small  quantities. 


SPECIAL   DIETS  299 

An  alimentary  canal  weakened  by  illness  may  be  com- 
pared to  an  immature  one  ;  so  there  is  sense  in  reducing 
the  diet  of  a  moderately  sick  patient  to  that  of  a  little 
child,  and  the  diet  of  a  very  sick  person  to  that  of  a 
baby.  Never  give  a  patient  anything  the  doctor  has 
forbidden  him  to  eat,  no  matter  how  much  he  wants  it. 

479.  General  rules ;  special  cases.  ‚Äî  Everything  you 
know  about  food  and  cooking  can  be  made  of  service  to 
the  patient.  Keep  in  mind  the  properties  of  differ- 
ent foods.  What  proportion  of  carbohydrate  food  to 
proteid  does  a  well  person  need?  (¬ß  251.)  Which 
does  a  convalescent  require  more  of,  force-producing  or 
tissue-building  food  ?  Would  you  give  an  invalid  pork 
and  beans  ?  Pastry  ?  Fried  food  ?  If  not,  why  not  ? 
In  general,  give  no  foods  about  the  wholesomeness  of 
which  there  is  any  doubt.  A  safe  rule  to  follow  is  that 
what  is  not  particularly  good  for  healthy  people  will  be 
dangerous  to  sick  ones.  How  long  should  gruels  be 
cooked  ?  (pp.  77  and  79.)  In  what  form  is  albumin  most 
easily  digestible  ?  (p.  87.)  What  is  the  function  of 
gelatin?  (¬ß  244.)  What  foods  would  you  think  good 
for  a  person  wasted  by  fever?  Consumptives  need 
an  abundance  of  proteids  and  fat.  What  food  should 
they  have  ?  Is  beef  juice  nourishing  ?  Beef  extract  ? 
(¬ß¬ß  257  and  288.)  Sometimes  a  patient  is  restricted 
to  one  class  of  foods.  For  a  patient  on  farinaceous 
(starchy)  diet,  what  dishes  would  you  prepare  ?  What 
dishes  for  a  patient  on  nitrogenous  diet,  i.e.  one  con- 
taining neither  sugar  nor  starch? 


SCO   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

480.  Pre-digested  foods  are  used  for  invalids  as  for 
babies.  Such  are  peptonized  milk,  malted  milk,  and 
all  foods  in  which  the  starch  has  been  digested  by  malt, 
or  by  some  other  ferment. 

Recipes  for  GraiELS 

(See  Chapter  II,  sect.  3.) 

481.  Serve  gruel  hot  in  a  cup  on  a  small  plate  or 
small  tray  covered  with  a  doily. 

Oatmeal  Gruel 

Oatmeal,  ^  cupful.  Cold  water,  1  quart. 

Salt,  2  teaspoonf  uls. 

Cook  these  together  in  a  double  boiler  for  two  hours. 
Press  through  a  strainer,  dilute  with  milk  or  cream, 
reheat,  and  serve.  The  ivell-heaten  white  of  one  egg 
stirred  into  the  gruel  makes  it  more  nutritious. 

CoRNMEAL  Gruel 

(Adapted  from  ]\Iiss  Farmer's  ^o.^^/on  Cooking  School  Cook-hook.) 

Coriimeal,  2  tablespoonfuls.  Salt,  yz  teaspoon ful. 

Flour,  1  tablespoonful.  Cold  water,  about  j4  cupful. 

Boiling  water  or  hot  milk,  3  cupfuls. 

Mix  meal,  flour,  and  salt  ;  stir  into  them  enough 
cold  milk  or  water  to  make  a  thin  paste,  and  pour  this 
into  the  hot  milk  or  water.  If  water  is  used,  cook  one 
hour  in  a  saucepan  ;  if  milk,  three  hours  in  a  double 
boiler.      Serve  hot,  diluted  with  milk  or  cream. 


SPECIAL   DIETS  301 

Shredded-wheat  Gruel 

Shredded-wheat  biscuit,  1.  Boiling  water,  1  pint. 

Salt,  1    teaspoonful.        Milk,  1  cupful. 

Cook  biscuit,  salt,  and  water  together  for  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  After  adding  the  milk, 
strain. 

Egg  Preparations 

(See  Chapter  III,  sect.  1.) 

482.  Raw  eggs  are  often  prescribed.  Break  the  egg 
into  a  glass,  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar, 
and  let  the  patient  swallow  it  whole. 

Egg  Gruel 

(Adapted  from  Mrs,  Lincoln's  Boston  Cook-book) 

Egg,     1.  Hot  milk  (not  scalded),  1  cupful. 

Sugar,  1  teaspoonful.       Nutmeg  or  lemon  juice  to  flav'or. 

While  the  milk  heats  beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg  till 
thick  and  light  colored,  the  white  till  stiff.  Stir  into 
the  yolk  the  other  ingredients  in  the  following  order  : 
Sugar,  milk,  beaten  Avhite,  flavoring.  Serve  hot  in  a 
glass  placed  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

Eggnog 
Eggs,  1.  Wine,  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Sugar,  2      teaspoonfuls.  or 

Lemon  juice,  1)4  tablespoonfuls.  Brand}',  1  teaspoonful. 

or  Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  yolk  till  thoroughly  foamy ;  stir  in  the 
other  ingredients.     Nutmeg  may  be  omitted. 


302        THEORY   AND   PRACTICE   OF   COOKERY 
Shirred  Egg 

Break  an  egg  into  a  buttered  cup  or  egg  stirrer ;  let 
this  stand  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  till  the 
white  jellies.  Season  and  serve  in  the  same  dish  placed 
on  a  plate. 

Milk  Preparations 

(See  sect.  2  of  Chapter  III,  and  paragraph  relating  to  Yeast  in 
Chapter  IV,  sect.  4.) 

483.  Milk  diet  mat/  he  varied  by  giving  the  milk  in 
various  forms,  e.g.  kumiss,  milk  punch  ;  if  permitted, 
in  milk  jellies  and  ice-cream  ;  and  by  serving  it  some- 
times hot,  sometimes  cold,  and  sometimes  flavored  with 
coffee. 

When  plain  milk  does  not  agree  with  the  patient, 
add  a  little  lime-water  or  a  few  grains  of  salt. 

Albuminized  Milk 

Put  the  white  of  one  egg  and  half  a  capful  of  milk 
into  a  glass  jar,  cover  tightly,  and  shake  until  well 
mixed. 

Peptonized  Milk  ‚Ä¢ 

Fairchild's  peptonizing  powder,  1  tubeful. 
Cold  water,  %  cupful. 

Fresh  cold  milk,  1  pint. 

Shake  the  water  and  powder  together  in  a  quart  glass 
jar  or  bottle,  add  the  milk,  and  shake  again.  Set  the 
jar  into  warm  water,  and  keep  it  as  near  130¬∞  F.  as  you 
can  for  twenty  minutes.     Then  put  it  at  once  on  ice. 


SPECIAL   DIETS  303 

Serve  with  grated  nutmeg,  sugar,  or  mineral  water,  as 
the  patient  may  prefer  or  the  doctor  prescribe. 

For  a  baby,  milk  is   sometimes  completely  peptonized 
by  keeping  it  at  a  temperature  of  120¬∞  for  two  hours. 

Kumiss 

Milk,     1  quart.  Lukewarm  water,  1  tablespoonful. 

Sugar,  1  tablespoonful.  Hot  water,  1  tablespoonful. 

Yeast,  yi  cake. 

Have  ready  beer  bottles,  cleaned,  sterilized,  and  cooled. 
Scald  the  milk  and  cool  till  lukewarm.  Boil  the  sugar 
with  the  hot  water  till  dissolved.  Mix  the  yeast  with 
the  lukewarm  water.  When  the  syrup  is  cool,  stir  it 
and  the  yeast  into  the  milk. 
Pour  at  once  into  bottles, 
filling  them  to  within  one 
and  one-half  inches  of  the  top. 
Cork  and  shake  well.  Stand 
in  a  warm  room  ten  hours.  Fig.  18. ‚ÄîMethod  of  tying 
Lay  them  down  in  the  ice-box  ^orks  into  kumiss  bottles. 
for  from  three  to  five  days.  Slow  fermentation  produces 
the  best  kumiss,  but  if  needed  for  use  the  day  after 
making,  the  bottles  may  be  allowed  to  stand  in  the  room 
for  six  hours  in  summer,  twelve  in  winter,  and  then 
laid  in  the  ice-box  for  twelve  hours.  If  ordinary  bc^ttles 
are  used,  tie  the  corks  down  as  shown  in  Fig.  18. 

Irish  Moss  Jelly  (or  Blanc  JMange'^) 

Irish  moss,  X  cupful.  Salt,     a  few  grains. 

Milk,  2  cupfuls.  Sugar,  to  suit  patient's  taste. 

1  French  for  "  white  food." 


304   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

After  washing  the  moss,  let  it  soak  in  the  milk  in  a 
double  boiler  one  hour ;  then  cook  until  the  milk 
steams,  sweeten,  and  strain  into  molds.  When  cold, 
turn  out  on  a  colored  plate,  and  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar.  Vanilla  may  be  used  to  flavor  either  jelly  or 
cream,  if  the  doctor  approves. 

Gluten  Wafers 

(See  Chapter  IV,  sect.  2.) 

Cream,  Yz  cupful.  Gluten  flour,  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

Salt. 

Mix  cream  and  flour,  roll  out  very  thin,  prick  with  a 
fork,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt.  Bake  the  wafers 
till  crisp  and  brown. 

Meat  Preparations 

484.    (See  sects.  1  and  2  of  Chapter  VI,  particularly  ¬ß¬ß  258,  262, 
269,  281-286,  and  289-292.) 

Nourishing  Beef  Tea 
Lean  beef  chopped  fine,  1  pound.  Cold  water,  1  pint. 

Flavoring:  bit  of  bay-leaf,  sprig  of  parsley,  slice  of  onion,  stalk  of 
celery,  two  or  three  cloves.  (Any  or  all  of  these  may  be  used 
if  approved  by  the  patient's  physician.)  Salt  and  pepper  to 
patient's  taste. 

Let  the  beef  stand  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours; 
then  heat  slowly,  stirring,  in  a  double  boiler,  until  it 
steams.  Strain  through  doubled  cheese-cloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water,  and  season.  This  beef  tea  should 
be  bright  red,  showing  that  it  contains  albumin  in 
liquid  form.     The  loss  of  this  color  shows  that  it  has 


SPECIAL   DIETS  305 

been  overheated.  Use  great  care  in  reheating ;  if  the 
albumin  coagulates,  strain  it  out.  Serve  it  in  a  warm 
glass,  red  glass  if  the  patient  objects  to  the  color  of  the 
beef  tea. 

Beef  Juice 

Directions  for  preparing  beef  juice  are  given  on 
pp.  144  and  147.    Reheat,  season,  and  serve  like  beef  tea. 

MuTTOx  Broth 

Neck  of  mutton,  2  pounds.  Bit  of  bay-leaf. 

Cold  water,  1  quart.  Small  sprig  of  parsley. 

Salt. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  soak  it  with  the  herbs 
one  hour,  then  simmer  three  hours.  Strain,  cool,  and 
remove  fat.  Reheat  and  salt  a  portion  when  required. 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  may  be  boiled  and  served  in 
the  strained  broth. 

Raw  Beef  Sandwiches 

(See  p.  U6.) 

Broiled  Beef  Tenderloin 

Over  a  carefully  broiled  slice  of  tenderloin,  squeeze, 
with  a  meat-press  or  lemon-squeezer,  the  juice  of  half 
a  pound  of  beef-round.  Season  with  salt,  and  with 
pepper  and  lemon  juice,  if  the  doctor  approves.  Use 
no  butter. 

Chop  broiled  in  Paper 

Lay  the  chop  between  slices  of  glazed  writing  paper. 
Trim  these  to  within  one  inch  of  the  chop,  and  fold 


306   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

their  edges  together,  enclosing  the  chop.  Broil  over 
hot  coals,  turning  often.  The  paper  holds  all  the 
juices.  When  the  chop  is  cooked,  hold  it  over  the 
dish  it  is  to  be  served  on  and  remove  the  paper. 
Season  it  and  serve  on  toast. 

Clam  broth  can  often  be  taken  by  a  patient  who  can 
take  no  other  food. 

Clam  Broth  (one  cupful). 
Large  clams,  6  or  8.         Water,  %  cupful. 

Scrub  the  clams  well  with  a  brush  and  cold  water. 

Heat  them  with  the  one-fourth  cupful  of  water  in  a 
covered  saucepan  till  their  shells  open.  Boil  for  one 
minute  after  this,  and  strain  through  fine  wire.  Serve 
undiluted,  or  add  a  little  hot  water. 

Wine  Jelly 

Granulated  gelatine,  IX  tablespoonfuls. 

Cold  water,  X  cupful. 

Boiling  water,  1  cupful. 

Lemon  juice,  \yi  tablespoonfuls. 

Sugar,  Yz  cupful. 

Wine  (sherry  or  Madeira),  yi  cupful. 

Make  like  Lemon  Jelly,  recipe  on  p.  164. 

Irish  Moss  Lemonade 

Irish  moss,  %.  cupful.         Cold  water,  2  cupfuls. 
Lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  suit  patient's  taste. 

Soak  the  moss  in  cold  water  till  soft.  Pick  out  dark 
bits  and  foreign  matter.     Cook  it  in  the  two  cupfuls  of 


SPECIAL   DIETS  307 

water  in  a  double  boiler  for  twenty  minutes.  Strain, 
flavor,  and  sweeten.  Use  hot  or  cold  for  patients  with 
throat  or  bronchial  inflammation. 

Lemon  Whey 

Hot  (not  scalded)  milk,  1  pint. 

Juice  of  2  lemons  (or  6  tablespoonfuls). 

Add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  milk ;  when  the  latter  has 
curdled,  strain  it  through  cloth.  Serve  the  whey  hot 
or  cold  in  a  glass. 

485.  The  invalid's  tray.  ‚Äî  Use  a  tray  just  large 
enough  for  the  dishes  it  is  to  hold.  Cover  it  with  a 
spotlessly  clean  napkin.  Arrange  it  as  if  you  were 
setting  a  place  at  the  table.  Use  the  prettiest  dishes 
you  have. 

Except  in  making  jellies,  gruels,  and  other  foods  that 
are  not  injured  by  keeping  or  reheating,  prepare  no 
more  food  than  the  patient  is  likely  to  eat.  No  food  left 
by  the  patient  should  be  served  a  second  time  ;  nor 
should  food  that  has  been  in  the  sick-room  be  eaten  by 
others. 


CHAPTER    XII 
BEVERAGES:   TEA,  COFFEE,  COCOA 

486.  The  primary  service  of  beverages,  or  drinks,  is 
the  quenching  of  thirst.  Thirst  being  the  body's  de- 
mand for  water,  water  is  the  best  of  beverages,  other 
drinks  satisfying  thirst  simply  by  means  of  the  water 
they  contain  (¬ß  65^. 

A  decoction  is  extracted  by  boiling  ;  an  infusion,  by 
treatment  with  boiling-hot  water. 

Section  1.    Tea 
A  Study  of  Tea 

487-  A.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  tea  in  each  of  two  enamelled-ware 
saucepans,  and  pour  on  to  one  a  cupful  of  boiUng  water ;  on  to  the 
other  a  cupful  of  water  not  quite  boiling  hot.  Let  them  stand  five 
minutes.  Wliich  is  darker  in  color?  "Which  stronger  in  taste? 
What  action  has  the  water  had  on  the  tea  ?  Which  is  the  best  sol- 
vent of  tea,  boiling,  or  merely  hot,  water?  (Observe  that  in  water 
below  the  boiling-point  the  leaves  float.) 

B.  Pour  off  half  the  tea  made  with  boiling  water,  and  let  the 
rest  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Meanwhile,  pour  another 
cupful  of  boiling  water  on  to  a  spoonful  of  fresh  tea,  and  boil  it 
five  minutes.  What  is  its  color?  Taste  ?  Add  to  this,  to  the  tea 
standing  on  the  leaves  and  the  tea  poured  off,  a  few  drops  of  cop- 
per  sulphate.      Does  it  act  on  all  alike  ?      At   what   temperature 

308 


BEVERAGES  :    TEA,  COFFEE,  COCOA  309 

should  water  be  for   making   tea?     How   long   should  it   steep? 
Should  it  boil?     Give  your  reasons. 

C.  Take  out  a  few  of  the  wet  tea  leaves  and  unroll  them ;  find, 
if  possible,  an  unbroken  one ;  note  its  pointed  shape  and  notched 
edges.  Do  you  find  any  other  kinds  of  leaves?  Any  sticks  or 
other  foreign  matter?  If  the  tea  is  Young  Hyson,  Pekoe,  or  other 
high-grade  tea,  look  for  buds. 

488.  Two  substances  in  tea.  ‚Äî  Tea  is  valued  chiefly 
for  its  theine,  a  principle  pleasantly  stimulating,  al- 
though injurious  if  taken  in  excess.  Tea  also  contains 
tannin,  a  bitter  substance  used  in  making  ink  and  in 
tanning  leather.  In  the  body  it  interferes  with  diges- 
tion, and  tends,  if  taken  in  large  quantities,  to  toughen 
the  lining  of  the  stomach,  as  tan-bark  toughens  leather. 

489.  Effect  of  water  on  tea.  ‚Äî Hot  boiling  water  poured 
over  tea  dissolves  its  theine  and  flavoring  matter,  making 
a  delicate,  refreshing  drink  ;  water  below  the  boiling- 
point  draws  these  out  imperfectly,  and,  in  consequence, 
the  tea  is  insipid.  Boiling  the  tea,  or  letting  it  stand 
long  on  the  leaves,  extracts  the  tannin.  Tea  made  by 
adding  fresh  water  to  old  leaves  in  a  pot  that  stands 
on  the  stove  all  day  is  actual  poison. 

490.  How  to  have  good  tea.  ‚Äî  1.  Buy  good  tea  ;  cheap 
tea  is  likely  to  be  adulterated  w^ith  used  tea  leaves  and 
leaves  of  other  plants.  2.  Keep  it  in  a  closely  covered 
glass  jar  or  tin  canister ;  if  exposed  to  the  air  it  loses 
flavor.  3.  Use  a  china,  or  silver,  or  earthen  teapot  ; 
never  a  tin  one.  4.  Have  the  water  freshly  drawn,  and 
bring  it  quickly  to  the  boiling-point  ;   Avater  deprived  of 


310   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

its  air  by  standing  or  by  boiling  gives  tea  a  flat  taste. 
5.  Have  the  teapot  hot  and  the  water  boiling  at  the  mo- 
ment the  tea  is  made.  6.  Steep  it  not  over  five  min- 
utes ;  never  let  it  boil. 

Directions  for  making  Tea 

491.  Allow  from  one  to  three  teaspoonfuls  of  tea  to 
two  cupfuls  of  water,  using  less  of  close-rolled  than  of 
coarse,  loose  teas.  When  the  water  boils,  scald  the  pot, 
put  in  the  tea,  and  pour  in  the  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
stand  covered  from  three  to  five  minutes  on  the  side  of  the 
stove  or  under  a  cosy  on  the  table. ^  Serve  with  sugar 
and  milk,  or  cream,  or  with  sugar  and  thin  slices  of 
lemon.  For  weakening  it,  use  water  as  nearly  as  pos- 
sible boiling  hot. 

Iced  tea,  made  weak,  is  a  wholesome  summer  drink. 
Serve  it  strained,  with  lemon  and  powdered  sugar. 

492.  How  tea  is  grown  and  made  ready  for  market.  ‚Äî 

Tea  consists  of  the  dried  leaves  of  an  evergreen  shrub 
native  to  China.  In  what  other  countries  is  it  culti- 
vated ?  Tea-plants,  left  to  themselves,  would  grow 
tall,  but  in  a  tea-garden  they  are  trimmed  to  keep  them 
bushy.  Only  young  leaves  and  buds  are  picked  for 
market,  the  smallest  making  the  finest  grades  of  tea, 
such  as  Pekoe  and  Souchong.  Tea  leaves  have  to  be 
wilted,  rolled,  "fired" ‚Äî that  is,  dried  by  artificial  heat, 

1  Color  does  not  show  the  strength  of  an  infusion,  the  finest  teas 
giving  a  light  color  even  after  long  steeping ;  it  is  tannin  that  makes 
tea  dark. 


BEVERAGES:   TEA,  COFFEE,  COCOA  311 

to  develop  their  flavor  and  stimulating  properties  ‚Äî 
and  graded  by  sifting  before  they  are  ready  for  market. 
Freshly  picked  leaves  carried  rapidly  through  these 
processes  keep  their  natural  color,  and  are  sold  as  green 
tea ;  black  tea  is  produced  from  leaves  left  in  heaps  on 
the  ground,  to  darken  and  develop  a  different  flavor 
before  being  rolled. 

India  teas  are  cleaner  than  other  black  teas,  being 
prepared  by  machinery  instead  of  by  hand ;  but  they 
are  said  to  contain  more  tannin.  Green  tea  contains 
more  tannin  than  black  tea  does,  and  so  is  more  likely 
to  cause  nervousness.  Among  green  teas  are  Gun- 
powder, Hyson,  Pekoe,  and  all  Japan  teas  ;  among 
black,  Formosa  and  Oolong. 

493.  Value  of  tea.  ‚Äî  While  not  nutritious,  tea  is  a 
useful  food  adjunct,  because  it  prevents  tissue  from 
wearing  out.  For  this  reason  it  is  excellent  for  elderly 
people,  but  bad  for  children,  whose  health  depends  on 
the  constant  renewal  of  all  parts  of  their  bodies.  Nor 
is  its  stimulating  effect  good  for  young  nerves.  You 
will  be  wise  not  to  drink  tea  until  you  are  grown  up, 
and  then  in  moderate  quantities  only.  Much  of  the 
benefit  thought  to  be  derived  from  tea  is  doubtless 
caused  by  its  heat  and  the  action  of  swallowing  it ;  a 
cup  of  hot  water  would  be  equally  effective. 

Section  2.    Coffee 

494.  A  study  of  coffee.  ‚Äî  Compare  roasted  with  un- 
roasted    coffee    beans,   observing   differences    in    color, 


312   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

odor,  and  taste.  Brown  a  few  unroasted  beans  on  a 
pan  or  shovel  over  the  fire,  and  compare  them  with  the 
roasted  ones.  What  changes  does  roasting  produce  in 
coffee? 

Experiment.  ‚Äî  Boil  together  for  ten  minutes  one  rounded  table- 
spoonful  of  coffee  and  one  cupful  of  water ;  compare  taste  with 
that  of  coffee  made  by  either  of  the  methods  given  below.  In 
what  respect  is  long-boiled  coffee  like  boiled  tea? 

495.  Coffee  ‚Äî  on  the  plantation  and  in  the  market.  ‚Äî 

The  coffee  ^'  bean,"  or  berry,  is  the  seed  of  the  red 
cherrylike  fruit  of  this  tropical  evergreen,  each  fruit 
usually  containing  two  berries.  When  the  fruit  begins 
to  shrivel,  it  is  shaken  to  the  ground  and  dried  until 
the  seeds  can  be  easily  separated  from  the  pulp.  The 
saeds  are  run  between  wooden  rollers  to  crack  off  the 
husk  enclosing  them,  after  which  they  are  roasted  in  a 
revolving  cylinder,  great  care  being  taken  to  have  the 
degree  of  heat  that  will  best  develop  their  characteristic 
flavor  and  odor,  or  aroma. 

The  coffee  grown  at  Mocha  is  so  fine  in  quality  that, 
although  none  of  it  is  exported,  it  has  given  its  name 
to  a  certain  kind  of  high-grade  coffee  the  world  over, 
‚Äî  any  small,  dark,  yellow,  roundish  bean  being  termed 
''  iMocha."  Java  and  East  India  coffees  are  pale  yellow 
before  being  roasted  ;  C'eylon,  West  Indian,  and  Brazil- 
ian coffees,  greenish  gray.  A  good  mixture  is  one  part 
of  Mocha  coffee  to  two  parts  of  Java.  Ground  coffee  is 
in  many  cases  mixed  with  other  clieaper  materials. 

496.  Test  for  adulteration  in  coffee.  ‚Äî  Pour  on  to  about 
a  tablespoon ful  of  ground  coffee  a  cupful  of  cold  water. 


BEVERAGES:    TEA,    COFFEE,    COCOA  313 

If  the  coffee  floats  and  colors  tlie  water  very  slowly,  it 
is  pure  ;  but  if  any  of  the  "  coffee  "  sinks  to  the  bottom 
or  stains  the  water  quickly,  chicory  or  some  other 
adulterant  is  present. 

497.  Value  of  coffee.  ‚Äî  Coffee,  like  tea,  contains  tan- 
nin and  theine  (generally  called  caffeine  in  coffee)  ;  it 
acts,  therefore,  much  as  tea  does  upon  the  body,  and 
requires  similar  preparation.  The  difference  in  flavor 
and  odor  between  coffee  and  tea  is  caused  by  a  differ- 
ence in  the  aromatic  oils  they  contain.  Moderately 
strong  coffee  in  moderate  quantities  seems  to  be  not 
harmful  to  grown  persons  in  good  healtli,  but  it  is 
unsuitable  for  boys  and  girls  for  the  same  reasons  that 
tea  is.  It  relieves  fatigue,  and  enables  a  person  to 
work  for  a  short  time  harder  than  his  natural  strength 
would  permit ;  but  habitually  to  stimulate  the  nerves 
in  this  way  is  both  unwise  and  wrong.  A  woman  or 
girl  who  cannot  ''  get  along  "  without  tea  or  coffee  is  as 
much  the  slave  of  a  drug  as  a  boy  with  the  "cigarette 
habit "  or  a  man  who  drinks  liquor  to  excess.  Much 
ill-health  among  Americans  is  caused  by  drinking  too 
much  or  too  strong  tea  and  coffee.  Substitutes  for 
coffee,  made  of  roasted  grains,  if  not  adulterated  with 
cheap  coffee,  are  liarmless  to  children  and  wholesome 
for  any  one. 

498.  How  to  have  good  coffee. ‚Äî 1.  Buy  freshly 
roasted,  unground  coffee,  and  grind  it  at  liome  as 
needed;  or  buy  it  freshly  ground  every  two  or  three 
days.     The  longer  it  is  kept  after  roasting,  particularly 


314   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

if  ground,  the  more  of  its  aroma  does  it  lose.  2.  Keep 
in  an  air-tight  can  or  jar.  3.  Use  an  enamelled  or 
earthen  coffee-pot  that  is  scoured  clean,  not  omitting 
the  spout,  after  each  using.  4.  Either  filter  the  coffee, 
or  boil  it  not  longer  than  three  minutes.  5.  Have 
coffee  powdered  for  filtering,  finely  ground  for  boiling. 
6.    Serve  with  hot,  but  not  scalded,  milk. 

Directions  for  making  Coffee 

499.  1.  Boiled  Coffee. ‚Äî Use  two  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  coffee  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Put  the  coffee 
into  the  pot,  pour  on  the  water,  and  let  it  come  again 
to  the  boiling-point.  Set  it  away  from  the  heat,  and 
stir  in  tiuo  tahlespoonfuU  of  slightly  beaten  egg.  Let  it 
boil  for  one  minute  to  clear  it  ;  then  keep  it  hot,  where 
it  will  not  boil,  for  five  minutes  before  serving. 

2.  Filtered  Coffee.  ‚Äî  Use  a  French  coffee-pot.  Put 
two  heaping  table  spoonfuls  of  powdered  coffee  into  the 
bag.  Pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling  ivater.  Cover  the 
pot  and  let  it  stand  in  hot  water  till  the  water  poured 
in  has  filtered  through.  Pour  it  out,  and  turn  it 
through  the  filter  again.  This  makes  black  coffee,  suit- 
able for  serving  in  small  cups  after  dinner.  Make 
breakfast  coffee  less  strong. 

Section  3.    Cocoa  and  Chocolate 

500.  The  cocoa  bean ;  growing  and  making  it  ready  for 
market.  ‚Äî  Cracked   and   powdered  cocoa,^    all    chocolate  ^ 

1  A  confusing  use  of  terms  has  resulted  from  retaining  both  the 
name  chocolate.,  by  which  plant  and  beverage  were  known  to  the 


BEVERAGES:    TEA,    COFFEE,    COCOA  315 

preparations,  and  cocoa  shells  are  products  of  the  seeds  of 
the  chocolate  tree,  a  native  of  the  tropic  countries  of 
America.  These  seeds,  called  cocoa  heans^  which  are 
about  the  size  of  almonds,  lie  surrounded  by  fibrous 
pulp,  in  a  brownish  yellow  pod  about  a  foot  long.  When 
fresh,  they  are  whitish  in  color,  and  ver}^  bitter.  The 
pods  as  they  ripen  are  cut  off  with  knives  fastened  on 
poles,  and  left  on  the  ground  to  dry  for  twenty-four 
hours.  The  seeds  are  then  taken  out  and  thrown  into 
heaps  to  ferment  for  from  two  to  five  days.  During 
this  process  they  darken  in  color,  and  become  milder  in 
taste.  After  this  they  are  roasted,  further  to  improve 
their  flavor;  but,  instead  of  being  ready  for  use,  as 
coffee  then  is,  cocoa  must  go  through  the  hands  of  the 
manufacturer  before  reaching  the  cook. 

501.    How  chocolate  and  cocoa  are  manufactured.  ‚Äî  In 

the  factory  the  beans  are  cracked  into  the  irregular  bits 
we  know  as  cocoa  nibs  or  cracked  cocoa.  The  papery 
shells  are  winnowed  out  to  be  sold  by  themselves,  while 
the  nibs  are  either  put  up  for  market,  or  undergo  fur- 
ther preparation.  Cocoa  beans  contain  so  much  fat 
that  when  ground  they  become  not  powder,  but  paste. 
The  cocoa  paste,  run  into  molds  and  cooled,  forms 
cakes  of  plain  chocolate  ;  if  flavored  and  sweetened 
before  being  molded,  it  forms  sweet  chocolate. 

Breakfast  cocoa  is  made  by  extracting  from  cracked 

natives  of  Mexico,  and  cacao,  the  name  given  them  by  the  Spanish. 
The  chocolate  tree  belongs  to  a  different  family  from  the  cocoanut 
palm. 


316   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

cocoa,  by  means  of  powerful  presses,  a  large  proportion 
of  its  fat,  and  grinding  to  powder  the  dry  substance 
left.  The  fat  is  sold  as  cocoa-butter,  for  making  per- 
fumes and  ointments,  and  for  other  purposes.  Dutch 
manufacturers,  instead  of  removing  the  fat,  emulsify  it 
(¬ß  179)  by  the  addition  of  alkalies.  Their  method  is 
not,  however,  altogether  desirable,  and  it  is  probable 
that  no  imported  cocoa  or  chocolate  excels  that  made 
by  leading  American  firms. 

502.  Composition  and  food  value.  ‚Äî  Linnaeus,  the  great 
botanist,  named  cocoa  theohroma^  "food  of  the  gods." 
Roasted  cocoa  contains  about  50  per  cent  of  fat,  15  to 
18  per  cent  of  nitrogenous  compounds,  and  10  to  13 
per  cent  of  starch.  Note  fat  globules  on  the  surface 
of  chocolate  that  has  been  standing.  Boil  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  breakfast  cocoa  with  one-quarter  cupful  of 
water,  and  test  -it  with  iodine  for  starch.  It  has  also 
a  small  amount  of  theobromine,  a  substance  similar  to 
caffeine,  but  so  much  less  powerful  that  neither  cocoa 
nor  chocolate  has  the  stimulating  effect  of  tea  and 
coffee  on  the  nerves.  Unlike  tea  and  coffee,  cocoa 
preparations  are  food,  whether  eaten  or  taken  in  the 
form  of  a  drink,  since,  even  in  the  latter  case,  the  cocoa 
itself,  not  merely  an  infusion  of  it,  is  swallowed.  For 
children  and  young  people  it  is  the  best  of  hot  drinks. 
People  who  do  not  like  prepared  cocoas  often  like 
cracked  cocoa ;  while  even  cocoa  shells  alone  makes  an 
economical  beverage,  recommended  particularly  for  the 
sick. 


BEVERAGES:   TEA,  COFFEE,  COCOA  317 

Cocoa  is  insoluble,  but  when  boiled  with  w^ater  the 
starch  thickens  sufficiently  to  keep  the  other  solid 
particles  suspended. 

Recipes 

Cocoa  made  from  Cracked  Cocoa 

Cracked  cocoa  (or  cocoa  and  cocoa  shells),  yi  cupful. 
Boiling  water,  3  pints. 

Boil  cocoa  and  water  together  for  two  hours  or  more  ; 
strain  and  serve  with  milk  and  sugar.  Since  cocoa 
made  in  this  way  improves  by  cooking,  do  not  throw 
away  what  is  left  in  the  pot,  but  add  each  day  more 
water  and  a  little  fresh  cocoa,  and  boil  again.  Once  a 
week  empty  and  clean  the  pot. 

Breakfast  Cocoa 

Scalded  milk,  1  pint.  Prepared  cocoa,^  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Boiling  water,  1  pint.  Sugar,  2  to  4  tablespoonfuls. 

Mix  the  cocoa  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan  ;  stir  in  the 
water  gradually,  and  boil  five  minutes  ;  add  the  milk  and 
cook  five  minutes  longer,  or  until  smooth  and  free  from 
any  raw  taste.  Beat  well  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  to 
prevent  albuminous  skin  from  forming. 

Chocolate 

Chocolate,^  2  squares.  Boiling  water,  1  cupful. 

Sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls.      Scalded  milk,    3  cupfuls. 

1  The  proportions  of  cocoa  and  chocolate  in  these  recipes  are  for  the 
preparations  made  by  Walter  Baker  and  Company.  They  may  have 
to  be  varied  for  other  kinds. 


318   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

Put  the  chocolate  cut  in  bits  into  a  saucepan  set 
into  hot  water ;  when  melted,  add  the  sugar  and  wat,er, 
stirring  till  smooth.  Pour  into  this  part  of  the  milk, 
then  pour  the  chocolate  back  into  the  rest  of  the  milk, 
and  stir  till  it  comes  to  the  boiling-point.  Beat  till 
frothy  witli  an  egg-whisk  or  a  Dover  beater. 

For  a  luncheon  or  for  afternoon  tea  serve  in  tall  cups 
with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  the  top  of  each 
cup.      (p.  99.) 

Where  to  find  descriptions  and  pictures  of  tea,  coffee,  and  cocoa.  ‚Äî 

Foods  and  Beverages:  Tea,  p.  252;  Coffee,  p.  256;  Cocoa,  p.  261. 
The  Chocolate  Plant,  published  by  Walter  Baker  and  Company, 
Dorchester,  Massachusetts  (many  pictures). 


APPENDIX  A 


319 


<1       ^ 
^       I‚Äî I 


‚ñÝCj    ¬´3    m  -d 

ft   +3    9    o 

dorf 

Hea 

r  degi 

each  f 

m 

m 

O 

^ 

s 

CO 

ny  foo 
urned. 
er  fou 
ad  of 

Ph 

w 

¬´  ^  "5  d 

H 

O     g     >     Oh 

*< 
% 

i:¬´         -d    ft 

P 

8 
o 

e  food  V 
of  heat 
ne  poun 
1  value 

lated. 

OWING 

VN   FOODS   AND 

2 
1 

to 

o 

ON  OF  Food.  ‚Äî Th 
yields  in  the  form 
required  to  raise  o 
show  what  the  foo 

Igested  and  assimi 

DO 

G    .ti     "S      02      "^ 

W  c5 

13 

SHOWING  CoMPOSI 

how  mvich  energy 

the  amount  of  he 

t-hand  column  thu 

of  it  were  perfectly 

TABLE   S 
N   OF   AMEKI 

1 

.a 

CO 

2 

H 

t‚Äî ( 

O 

P^ 

'5 

s 

OF  Table 
finding  out 
ne  calorie  is 
in  the  righ 
if  every  hit 

O 

ANATION 

ated  by 
ries.    0 
e  figures 
would  be 

o 

tc 

<1 

1 

o 

g 

a    '^   ^  A  ^ 

hH 

? 

CM  .::   3  ^   c3 

¬ß 

1 

Note  in 
material  is 
measured  b 
Fahrenheit. 
or  food  mat 

320   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


calories. 

1185 
1255 

1110 
1270 

1110 
1370 

754 
835 

17301 
2025 

‚Ä¢aaxxvpf  ivaaxiK 

‚Ä¢Dxa 

per  ct. 

‚Ä¢arons 

per  ct. 

‚Ä¢aaaij 

perct. 

‚Ä¢Hoavxg 

per  ct. 

‚Ä¢saxvaaAii 
-oaavo  'ivxox 

per  ct. 

‚Ä¢xv^ 

per  ct. 

19.9 
21.1 

17.9 
20.4 

20.0 
24.6 

9.2 
10.6 

35.8 
41.9 

‚Ä¢aaxxvH  sxiok 

-aaoaxi^  aanxQ 

ONv  saiaioaj 

per  ct. 

17.7 

18.7 

19.1 
21.9 

14.4 

17.8 

19.2 
20.9 

11.7 
13.7 

‚Ä¢aaxvAV 

per  ct. 

56.1 
59.3 

.52.4 
60.0 

45.3 
57.0 

02.5 
67.8 

34.3 
40.1 

‚Ä¢asnaaji 

perct. 
5.5 

12.7 

20.1 

8.5 

14.5 

3 

1 
1 

1 

Beef  (concluded). 
Flank. 

As  purchased 

Edible  portion     .... 

Porter-house  Steak. 

As  purchased 

Edible  portion     .... 

Kibs. 

As  purchased 

Edible  portion      .... 

Pvound. 

As  purchased 

Edible  portion      .... 

Plate  (corned). 

As  purchased 

Edible  portion     .... 

APPENDIX  A 


321 


^j   2 


lO    o 

CO     O 


O    t-; 

<¬©    06 


OrH                  000                        ClCOC¬ª            coqi-C5                  c^ 

II                              II                                      i        1                1                     1        1                 1        1                              1 

II                              II                                      III                     1        1                 II                              1 

II                              II                                      III                     II                 1        1                              1 

II                              II                                      III                     1        1                 1        1                              1 

II             M                1    1       1         1    1       1    1             1 

7.5 

7.7 

24.1 

28.3 

2G.7 
29.9 

12.7 

‚Ä¢    14.5 
17.5 

17.1 

21.8 

22.0 

O    CO 


IC    CO 

d  i^ 

s 

C-.    CI 

T-5  CO 

10  0 

CO    CI 

0 

CO      1 

5 1 

a  1 

1 

s  1 

S  1 

1 

<  w 


a        a 
‚Ä¢  tJ    o         o 

'O  :;:    c:    r,         o 

o     -5303 
,Q    2  <!  W    '^'^  H 


a  . 


<  w 


-  T3 

fcx  H 


5S 

0/  o 

6-^ 


322   THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


‚Ä¢amvA  aooj 

.1 

O 

lO 

<r> 

lO 

lO 

o 

lO 

IQ    >0 

OKIXV0Ia^II  'a^noj 

.K 

-H 

^ 

y) 

s 

CI 

in 

t-    Tfl 

aaj  a.aiVj\.  la-'ij 

1 

T-l 

CD 

rrs 

CI 

fr> 

<Ti 

t-  o 

‚Ä¢aaxxvH  lyaaNipi 

1 

‚Ä¢* 

"^ 

lO 

CO 

iH 

rH 

‚Ä¢oxa 

-s 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1        I 

'k.io  'Niaxxaa 

s. 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1        1 

^' 

‚Ä¢avoag 

1- 

1 

I 

1 

1 

' 

' 

1 

' 

1        1 

t> 

‚Ä¢aaaij 

1 

' 

1 

1 

' 

' 

1 

1 

1 

1        1 

^‚Ä¢ 

‚Ä¢noavxs 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

' 

1        1 

‚Ä¢saxvaa.iH 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1        1 

-ofiavQ  7yxox 

i 

^ 

o 

o 

Cl 

CO 

CI 

CI 

rJH 

¬ªo 

CO    CO 

‚Ä¢xv^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

s¬ß 

?? 

g 

^ 

C5 

CI   to 

lH      T-l 

‚Ä¢aaxxvi^  snoii 

*3 

‚Ä¢ 

CI 

-n 

>-0 

>o 

CI 

Ci 

00 

¬ªo 

t-    CO 

-aooaxijsi  aanxQ 

u 

CO 

1-t 

r-l 

?^ 

T-t 

CI 

C^ 

CO    o 

1‚Äî1      7‚Äî I 

aar  eaiaxoaj 

^ 

00 

b- 

00 

oo 

CO 

o 

t- 

CO 

‚ñÝr-<    t- 

‚Ä¢aaxvAV 

u 

¬ß 

g 

J^ 

^ 

¬ß8 

t- 

CO 

‚Ä¢<* 

I‚Äî 

^^S 

*J 

CO 

CI 

cc 

o 

‚Ä¢asnjajx 

o 

1 

CI 

' 

' 

1 

rH 

' 

^1  1 

¬´ 

‚Ä¢ 

‚Ä¢ 

‚ñÝ< 

p3 

5 

p 

‚Ä¢ 

1 

1 

‚Ä¢ 

‚Ä¢ 

‚Ä¢    ‚Ä¢ 

'C3 

r, 

r^ 

n 

‚Ä¢n 

u 

a 

T! 

n- 

o 

-^    o 

o 

rr 

^j 

'? 

O) 

tS 

<v 

a> 

m 

0 
-<! 

CD 

1 

^ 

o 

o 

o 

g 

o 

a 

4^ 

o 

5 

7> 

o 

"o 

T) 

o 

la 

1 

1‚Äî 

so  -3 

s 

to 

S3 

CO 

a 

CO 

>> 

‚Ä¢a 

CO 

r2 

owl. 
As  pur 
Edible 

^ 

'n 

<1 

W 

ce 

-15 

w 

c3 

<! 

'r' 

< 

^ 

D 

<  w 

^ 

pli 

.^ 

W 

M 

CC 

fS 

O 

fe 

APPENDIX   A 


323 


o  o  o 

C-1    ‚ñÝ*    "O 


lo  r>] 

t-: 

- 

C-1 

re     C-. 

t-; 

‚ñÝ>} 

X     -^ 

1-.  CO 

11            Ml         II            II            II         II 

II             1    I    1         II             II             M         II 

II             III         II             II             II         II 

II             1    I    1         II             11             II         1    } 

II             1    I    1          II              II             !    1          II 

tH     CO 

^ 

CI 

o 

^ 

^1    fO 

CO 

T-t 

t-- 

T-l       CO 

co'  ci 

CO  o 

-t  to 

CO    CO 


o  ‚Ä¢*  c: 
d  ci  o" 

r-(    1-1     CI 


T-H     !>‚Ä¢ 

cz   ir:   CI 

1-:  o 

^[3 

ii 

CI   -o 

o 

48.G 

o 

?i  1 

Si 

il 

i  1 

a,  r;  13 
‚Ä¢n  ^  W 


o 
I  - 

t3     O 


O    ^ 


<3       W 


324    THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


a 
t- 

1 

is 

^ 

q 

o 

CO 

CO    CO 
CO    CO 

t--     t>;     O 

‚Ä¢H'jxxvi\[  ivaaKij^ 


‚Ä¢oxa 


I      1 


1     I      I 


‚Ä¢avong 


I      I 


I    1    ! 


‚Ä¢aaaij; 


1      I      I 


‚Ä¢Hoavxg 


i      i 


I      I      I 


‚Ä¢SHXvanAH 
-oaavQ  Tvxox 


ci  CO 


O    y-< 

o  i6 


t^  ^    CO 


‚Ä¢xvj: 


o      q 

O        lO 


q  CO  CO 

rji        "    00 


‚Ä¢aaxxvj^  SiiOK 

-aooaxi^  aaiixQ 

OMV  saiaxoaj 


O 

o 

^     .    P    ^ 

^      ^ 

o 

one 
Cod 
pui 
ible 

S:d- 

ft 

1.5 

o 

CO     ^ 

CO  Tt<  CO 

CO    CO    CO 


^ 

CI 

o 

CO 

t- 

o 

CI 

CI 

o 

o 

o 

‚Ä¢aaxv^W. 

^ 

o 

CO 

CO 

CO 

,_! 

-f 

CO 

(^ 

o 

‚ñÝo 

c. 

L- 

'"' 

Ci 

‚Ä¢asuaaa 

1 

c^ 

' 

1 

1 

' 

1 

1 

1 

' 

1 

^  Pk 


P^  oQ  ;3 


W     o 


APPENDIX   A 


325 


o  o  o  o  o  o  ¬ªo         ¬ªo  o     u';  o  o  o  o         ici  1^  o  ¬ªo  I':  o 
0  ¬ªo  CO  :r:  00  :‚Ä¢‚ñÝ:  CO  i-  o      ^  ^  o  .-h  o  00  o  -o  i-  o   c-. 

CC    O    CO    00    0    t:;    O  00        rf    0    fO.    Cl    C  r-i     r-i    r-i  CI    1-1 


0    CO 

ir: 

c 

l^ 

‚ñÝ* 

CO 

0 

Ttl 

CO 

10 

0 

^ 

CO 

CO 

C-. 

cr. 

CO 

¬ªo 

Ci 

1-1 

'"' 

'"' 

'"' 

'"' 

'"' 

'"' 

'"' 

i-O 

>c 

1  1 

' 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1.0 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

CI 

t^ 

1  1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

CO 

c^ 

1 

1 

1 

' 

1 

' 

1 

1 

0  0 

C: 

c-i 

cr. 

^ 

^ 

I- 

1-0 

0 

'‚ñÝ' 

1 

1 

1 

1 

rH 

1 

' 

1 

1 

1 

1 

t- 

0 

1   1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

^ 

1 

1 

1 

' 

1 

1 

1 

1 

^  0 

CO 

10 

¬ª-0 

0 

‚Ä¢* 

a> 

LO 

CO 

^ 

n 

^ 

0 

-f 

CO 

"*! 

0 

a 

05 

0  c^ 

1^ 

1-1 

:5 

- 

F^ 

L^ 

1-1 

CI 

0 

0 

CO 

10 

t- 

‚Ä¢^ 

Ttl 

t- 

C5 

cc 

‚ñÝ* 

q  t2 

CI 

(M 

¬ªc 

CO 

‚ñÝ^ 

c: 

^ 

0 

00 

-0 

CO 

CO 

^ 

CI 

C1 

CI 

CO 

CO 

t- 

tH 

'"' 

T-t 

'"' 

Cl 

'"^ 

CO 

'"' 

c^  CO  c<;  th  CO  o  00 
o  06  c^  o  ci  CO  ci 


00    t‚Äî        C    05     t-;    Cl     t-; 

CO  i-H     CO  06  06  cri  CD 


CO    -1^    C;    o    -+    ci 
ci   r-i      ‚ñÝ   ,-!    r-i    r-i 


¬ª0    00    CO 
ci    r-i    ci 

7-1     1-H     I- 

CO 

0 

-fi 

CC 

CO 

0 
f- 

rlH    CO 

r-i     ci 

C5    CO 

CO 

d 

i 

77.7 

70.G 
80.5 
78.!) 
91.2 

lllllll        II      Mill        iSdSdj 

>.  >. 


g  a 

7i    ci 
O  O 


-5^      o 


.^  H  K 


P^  ¬´     ^ 


O  W 


1| 

ci  7^ 


J    ? 


^00 


St? 

¬Æ  > 


0^.2 

s  3  ¬´5 
*  g.2 

OS  J3  43 


"c  ¬£  S 

Ml 

CO   o"* 

cc  ^  fJ 


IH     N    ¬´    -=> 


326 


THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 


¬ªo  O  lO  O   i-O   o   o   o 


o  o 

o  c-i 

CO  to 

CI  C^l 


aaxxvpi:  ivaaNipj 


Ci   lO   p   p   o 

Ci    r-H    tH    r-i 


CO    00    C^l         C] 
r-i  ci 


‚Ä¢oxa 


I      I      i      I      I      I      I      I         I         I 


‚Ä¢arong 


I      I      ‚Ä¢     I    ^     I      I        I        I 


‚Ä¢aaaij 


Tti    O    O    Cl    o 


:-¬∞  \    \    \ 


‚Ä¢Hoavxg 


I     I     I    t^    I     I      I     I        I        1 


‚Ä¢saxvaoAH 
-oaavQ  ^vxox 


o  -o  -+i  o  cr.  c-i  o  o 


‚ñÝxvj 


T-H     Tti     O      O     lO 


‚Ä¢aaxxvj^  saoa 

-aooaxi^  aaiixQ 

aNV  saiaxoaj 


h-    C-l    )0    p    -)H    CO 

o  ci  c-i 


‚Ä¢aaxVj^ 


CO   CO    iq  CO   p  ¬´_ 

CO    CO    i-O    -^H    ‚Ä¢*    o 
t-    t‚Äî    L‚Äî    C^    CO    l^ 


‚Ä¢a9na3j[ 


I    M    I    I    I    I 


1      I 


I '3 


3    ^   13 

T3  .r-l 


oi    o    o     -  cs 


^    Tj    o    -;    w 
Ph  H  <3  CQ  ft 


APPENDIX  B. 


TABLE    SHOWING  QUANTITY  OF  FOODSTUFFS  OBTAINED 
IN  DIFFERENT  FOOD   MATERIALS   FOR   25   CENTS. 


Taken  from  Farmers'  Bulletin,  No.  23.     Foods :  "  Nutritive  Value  and  Cost, 
W.  J).  Atwater,  Ph.D.     Published  by  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

[Quantities  of  foodstuffs  in  pounds.    Fuel  value  in  calories.] 


by 


Protein , 


Fats, 


Carbohydrates ;    Fuel  value. 

FEM       ‚Äî 


S3 

Weights  of  nutrients  and  calories  of  energy 
in  25  cents'  worth 

Cts. 

U>. 

1  Lbs. 

¬ª  Lbs.                           3  L! 

bs. 

2000  Cal.                         6000  Cal.                      10000 

CaL 

25.0 

1.00 

1                   1                   1                   1 

m 

Beet,  sirloin 

Sm 

5.0 

1.67 

a^ 

Beef,  ronnd 

Beef,  neck , 

6.0 

4.17 

Mmm^^^ 

22.0 

1.14 

m 

tmmia^mmi^^ 

16.0 

1.56 

^^^ 

Ham,  smoked . 

Salt  pork,  very  fat 

2.0 

2.08 

Codfish,  fresh 

8.0 

3.13 

M 

‚ñÝ‚ñÝ 

7.0 

3.57 

^i^!l 

12.0 

2.  OS 

Sj^l 

^‚ñÝ^i^i^^ 

18.0 

14.; 

1.43 
1.70 

M 

Eggs,  05  cents  dozen 

M 

^‚Äî  ‚ñÝ 

Milk,  7  cente  quart 

3.5 

7.14 

:::tel       1 

Cheese,  whole  milk 

15.0 

1.C7 

^.JL^ 

Cheese,  skim  milk 

80 

3.13 

‚ñÝX:::-.-      :‚ñÝ,::‚ñÝ  :.:^      I 

Butter 

‚ñÝ^0.0 

C.83 

=^^=^1 

5.0 

5.00 

-i 

3.0 

6.33 

::::‚ñÝ:::‚Ä¢       W 

Wheat  flour 

M^heat  bread 

7,0 

3.57 

m                    1 

2.5 

10.00 

jr- ‚Äî 1 ‚Äî r -~ 

Beans 

‚ñÝi  0 

5  00 

m:.mmi J 

Potatoes                       

1.2 

20.00 

:-¬´                                                                                                   1 

Standard  for  daUy  diet  for  ) 

G¬´ 

Am 

rman'' 
erican' 

m     ‚ñÝ     1 

man  at  moderate  work.--) 

^^‚ÄîJ^ 

j-  Atwater. 


INDEX 


Abbreviations,  table  of,  55. 
Absorption   of    food    in    tlie    body, 

process  of,  197. 
Acetic  acid,  formation  of,  in  dough, 

129. 
Acids : 

carbonates,   action  of    acids  on, 

105. 
effect  of,  on  digestion  of  starch. 

134. 
experiments  with  soda  and  allca- 

lies,  104,  105. 
foods  supijlying  acids  to  the  body, 

226. 
function  in  the  body,  138. 
hydrochloric  acid  in  gastric  juice, 

87. 
metals,  action  of  acids  on,  51. 
neutralization    of    acids    by   al- 
kalies, 106. 
nitric  acid,  test  for  nitrogenous 

substances,  87. 
use  of  acids  in  cleaning,  36. 
Adulteration  in  coffee,  test  for,  312. 
Air: 

batters  made  light  by  beating  in 

air,  107. 
cleanliness,  air  as  aid  to,  33. 
composition  of,  6. 
relation  of,  to  fire,  7. 
relation  of,  to  life,  5. 
testing  air  for  carbon  dioxide,  5. 
Albumin : 

albuminized  milk,  302. 


Albumin  (continued) : 

coagulation  of,  86,  87,  145. 

digestion  of,  87. 

effect  of  heat  on,  85. 

in  eggs,  85. 

in  meat,  145. 

in  milk,  93. 

test  for  albumin,  86,  145. 

use  of  albumin  in  body,  85. 
Alcohol : 

alcohol  produced  by  yeast,  128. 

effect  on  the  body,  140. 
Alimentary  canal  and  the  digestion 

of  food,  195. 
Alkalies : 

experiments  with  acids  and  al- 
kalies, 105. 

grease  removed  by,  34. 

neutralization  of  acids  by  alka- 
lies, 106. 
Aluminium,  cleaning,  34. 
Ammonia : 

grease  removed  by,  34. 

hard  water,  softening  with  am- 
monia, 25. 

laundry-work,   use   of    ammonia 
in,  35. 
Amylopsin  in  pancreatic  juice,  197. 
Anatto,  coloring  for  butter,  98. 
Animal  foods,  139, 144.  See  also  Meat. 
Apple  sauce,  recipe  for,  232. 
Apple  tapioca,  recipe  for,  275. 
Apples  : 

canning,  285. 


329 


330 


INDEX 


Apples  {continued) : 

dried,  soaking,  235. 

study  of  an  apple,  226. 
Apricots,  dried,  235. 
Asparagus : 

cream-of-asparagus  soup  (table), 
251. 

information  about,  244. 

soup,  use  of  asparagus  water  for, 
159. 
Assimilation  of  food,  178. 

Babies,  diet  for,  special  preparations 

of  milk,  289. 
Bacon,  176,  187. 
Bacteria : 

disease  produced  by,  33. 

in  relation  to  cleanliness,  33. 

souring  of  milk  caused  by,  95. 

study  of,  280. 

uses  of,  283. 
Baking: 

apples  and  pears,  233. 

bananas,  233. 

bread,  111,  123. 

cakes,  267. 

definition  of  term,  52. 

fish  suitable   for  baking  whole, 
201. 

potatoes,  59,  65. 

using  gas  range  for  baking,  19. 
Baking-pans,  greasing,  103,  267. 
Baking-powder : 

composition  of,  109. 

leavening  power,  104. 

sponge  cake,  making  (table), 268. 

study  of,  108. 
Baking-soda : 

a  carbonate,  105. 

in  baking-powder,  109. 

use  with  molasses,  260,  264. 

use  with  sour  milk,  106. 
Bananas : 

baking,  233. 

food  value,  227. 

serving,  231. 


Barley : 

barley  water  for  babies,  294. 
cereal  food,  74. 

soup,  making  and  serving,  162. 
Barley  sugar,  making,  262. 
Bath    brick,    use    of,    for    cleaning 

knives,  34. 
Batter : 

action  of  carbon  dioxide  on  bat- 
ter, 105. 
kinds  and  definition  of,  103, 106. 
Batters    and     doughs,    ingredients, 
means  of  lightening  and  short- 
ening, 107.     See  also  Dough. 
Bean  pure'e,  252. 
Beans : 

information  about,  244,  245. 
proteid  food,  237. 
salad,  prejiaring  beans  for,  253. 
Beating,  directions  for,  89,  90. 
Beef: 

broiled   beef    tenderloin    for  in- 
valids, 305. 
corned  beef  hash,  recipe  for,  171. 
flesh  of  cattle    known    as  beef, 

144. 
location  of  cuts  of  beef,  173,  180. 
raw  beef  sandwiches  for  invalids, 

146. 
recipe  for  rolled  flank  of,  168. 
selection  of  goad  beef,  149. 
use  of  fat  as  shortening,  etc.,  224. 
Beef  a  la  mode,  168. 
Beef  juice: 
bottled,  147. 
preparing,  144,  305. 
Beefsteak,  broiling,  directions   f(^r. 

149. 
Beef  tea,  recipe  for,  304. 
Beet  sugar,  262. 
Beets,  information  about,  245. 
Beverages,  definition  of,  308. 
See  also  Tea  and  Coffee. 
Bile,  197. 

Binding-material  in  soups,  definition 
of,  249. 


INDEX 


331 


Biscuits,  recipe  for  tea  biscuit,  107. 
Black  bass,  information  about,  200. 
Blacking  for  stoves,  composition  of, 

37. 
Blade  of  beef,  181. 
Blanc-mange,  recipe  for,  303. 
Block  sugar,  manufacture  of,  261. 
Blood : 

iron  in,  1.37. 

water  in,  2-4. 
Bluefisb,  information  about,  206. 
Body,  value  of  food  to,  71. 
Bodystuffs  and  foodstuffs,  136. 
Boiling : 

coffee,  314. 

definition  of  term,  52. 

fish,  202. 

leg  of  mutton,  154. 

potatoes,  59,  65. 

sugar,  boiling  to  the  thread,  etc., 
263. 
Boiling-point  of  water,  28. 
Bone,  study  of,  157. 
Bones : 

calcium  found  in,  137. 

soup-stock,  use  of  bones  in  mak- 
ing, 156. 
Brain-workers : 

diet  for,  142. 

fish  good  for,  reasons  for,  204. 
Brains  of  calves  used  as  food,  176. 
Braising,  definition  of  term,  53,  168. 
Brass,  cleaning,  34. 
Bread : 

baking,  123. 

characteristics  of  good  bread,  118. 

digestion  and  food  value,  1.34. 

fancy-bread  recipes,  1.32. 

hints  on  mixing  and  kneading, 
122. 

hints  about  bread-making,  130. 

quick  breads,  102, 110. 

reasons  for  chewing  bread,  134. 

rising,  123. 

toasting,  88. 

uses  for  stale  bread,  132. 


Bread  {continued) : 
white  bread,  122,  135. 
whole-wheat  bread,  124. 
yeast  bread,  121. 
Bread  crumbs,  uses  for,  132. 
Bread  pudding,  recipes  for,  273. 
Bread  sticks  and  rolls,  making,  123. 
Breakfast  cereals,  cooking,  74, 78,  79. 
Breakfast  cocoa,  recipe  for,  317. 
Breathing,  effect  on  air,  5. 
Breathing  of  plants,  7. 
Brisket  of  beef,  location  of,  174, 182. 
Broiling  : 

beef  tenderloin,  broiled,  for  in- 
valids, 305. 
chop  broiled  in  paper  for  invalids, 

305. 
definition  of  term,  52. 
directions  for,  149. 
fish,  201,202. 

gas  range,  using  for  broiling,  19. 
Broth : 

clam,  for  invalids,  306. 
mutton,   for  invalids,  305. 
See  also  Soups. 
Brown  gravy,  making,  153. 
Brown  stew,  making,  167. 
Brown  sugars,  262. 
Burners  of  gas  ranges,  18. 
Butter : 

mait}'e  d'hotel  butter,  recipe  for, 

151. 
study  of  butter  and  butter-mak- 
ing, 97. 
Butter  cakes ; 

definition  of,  264. 
mixing,  266. 
Butter  taffy,  recipe  for,  263. 
Buttered  crumbs  for  scalloped  dishes, 

120. 
Butterine,  composition  of,  213. 

Cabbage : 

cole-slaw,  preparing,  257. 

information  about,  245. 
Caffeine  in  coffee,  313. 


332 


INDEX 


Cake  frostings  and  fillings,  270. 
Cakes  : 

baking,  267. 

making,  264. 

mixing,  hints  on,  56. 

proportions  of  ingredients  in,  265. 

recipe  for  griddle  cakes,  103. 

table  of  recipes  for  cakes,  268. 
Calcium  found  in  bones,  137,  157. 
Candle,  burning,  experiments    and 

explanation,  7. 
Candy,  making,  262. 
Canned  foods,  284. 
Canned  vegetables,  serving,  241. 
Caramel : 

making,  262. 

potatoes,  caramel  in,  70. 
Caramel  custard,  recipe  for,  273. 
Carbohydrates,  function  of,  138. 
Carbon  dioxide,  formation  of,  experi- 
ments, 5,  9,  105. 
Carbon : 

carbon  in  starch,  70. 

carbon  in  wood,  6. 

element  existing  in  form  of  graph- 
ite, etc.,  51. 
Carbonates,  action  of  acids  on,  105. 
Carboniferous    Age,    formation    of 

coal,  21. 
Carrot,   structure  and    composition 

of,  236. 
Carrots : 

cream-of-carrot  soup  (table),  251. 

foodstuffs  in  carrots,  236. 

information  about,  246. 
Cartilage  surrounding  bone,  157. 
Casein  in  milk,  93. 
Celery : 

cream-of-celery  soup  (table),  251. 

information  about,  246. 

serving,  243. 

soup,  use  of  celery  water  for,  159. 
Cells  in  starch,  G9,  136. 
Cells  of  tissues  of  the  body,  descrip- 
tion of,  136. 
Cells  of  yeast,  125. 


Cellulose  in  fruit,  effect  of  cooking 

on,  231. 
Cereals : 

cereals  compared  with  potatoes, 
74. 

definition  of,  73. 

directions  for  cooking,  77. 

food  value  of,  78. 

fruit  with,  76, 

hints  about  breakfast  cereals,  78, 
79. 

use  of  double  boiler  in  cooking 
cereals,  74. 

various  kinds  of,  74. 

See  also  Wheat,  etc. 
Chalk,    insoluble    in   water,  experi- 
ment, 24. 
Chartreuse  of  rice  and  meat,  recipe 

for,  171 . 
Check  damper  in  coal  range,  use  of, 

13. 
Cheese : 

baked  macaroni  with  cheese,  120. 

cottage  cheese,  recipe  for,  95. 

food  value,  etc.,  99. 

grating,  120. 

recipes,  101. 
Chemical  changes  of  matter,  50. 
Chemical  cleaning  materials,  34,  36. 
Cherries,  canning,  285. 
Chewing  of  food,  134,  196. 
Chicken : 

croquettes,  recipe  for,  221. 

fricassee,    preparation    of    fowl, 
etc.,  193,  194. 

selecting,  192. 
Chickens,  digestive  organs  of,  195. 
Chocolate  ice-cream,  making,  279. 
Chocolate  icing  for  cakes,  271. 
Chocolate  layer  cake,  269. 
Chocolate,  manufacture  of,  etc.,  314. 
Chops : 

broiling,  151,  305. 

mutton,  veal,  etc.,  175,  186. 
Chuck  ribs  of  beef,  location  of,  174, 
182. 


INDEX 


333 


Chyme,  digestion  of  food,  197. 
Citron,  228. 

Clam  broth  for  invalids,  30G, 
Cleaning  of  wheat  in  manufacture  of 

flour,  115. 
Cleaning : 

bacteria  in  relation  to  cleanliness, 
33. 

cleaning  floors,  hints  on  sweep- 
ing and  scrubbing,  37. 

dishcloth,  etc.,  46. 

dish-washing,  42. 

faucets,  41. 

fire-box,  15. 

glasses,  44. 

hints  on  dusting,  38. 

implements    and     materials    for 
cleaning,  33,  47. 

knives,  44. 

metals,  36. 

natural    and     artificial    aids    to 
cleanliness,  33. 

oilcloth,  38. 

paint,  38. 

personal  cleanliness,  48. 

powders,  34. 

refrigerator,  47. 

removing  tarnish  and  rust,  36,  45. 

silver,  45. 

sink,  41. 
Clearing  soup,  directions  for,  IGl. 
Clove  of  garlic  for  salad  flavoring, 

254,  255. 
Coagulation,  definition  of,  87. 
Coal: 

anthracite  and  bituminous  coal, 
difference  between,  21. 

artificial  gas  made  from  coal,  23. 

hard  and  soft  coal,  21. 

origin  of,  and  use  as  fuel,  20. 

saving  coal,  22. 
Coal-oil : 

use  as  fuel,  22. 

use  of,  in  cleaning,  35. 
Coal  ranges,  construction  and  man- 
agement of,  11. 


Cockroaches  in  kitchen,  exterminat- 
ing, 48. 
Cocoa : 

composition  and  food  value,  316. 

insolubility  of,  317. 

making  breakfast  cocoa,  315. 

manufacture,  etc.,  314. 

recipes  for,  317. 
Cod,  information  about,  206. 
Codfish  cakes,  recipe  for,  222. 
Coffee : 

directions  for  making,  314. 

growth  and  manufacture  of,  312. 

roasting,  311. 

study  of,  311. 

test  for  adulteration  in  coffee,  312. 

value  of  coffee,  313. 
Coffee  cake,  269. 
Coffee  jelly,  recipe  for,  165. 
Coffee  rennet  custard,  recipe  for,  96. 
Cole-slaw,  recipe  for,  257. 
Collagen,  function  of,  in  the  body, 

138,  157. 
Combustion  : 

definition  of,  9. 

products  of,  9, 

study  of,  7. 
Comijound,  definition  of,  50. 
Condensed  milk  for  babies,  295. 
Convalescent  diet  for  the  sick,  297. 
Cookery  for  the  sick,  see  Sick,  cook- 
ery for  the. 
Cooking  of  food,  reasons  for,  52, 197. 
Copper,  cleaning,  34. 
Corned  beef  hash,  recipe  for,  171. 
Cornmeal  : 

gruel,  recipe  for,  300. 

muffins,  recipe  for,  112. 

purchase,  and  directions  for  keep- 
ing, 76,  79. 

value  as  food,  78. 
Cornstarch    meringue,    recipe    for, 

275. 
Cottage  cheese,  recipe  for,  95. 
Cottage  pudding  (table),  268. 
Cottonseed  oil,  213. 


334 


INDEX 


Crabs,  210. 

Cracked  cocoa,   cocoa  made   from, 

317. 
Crackers,  cheesed,  recipe  for,  100. 
Cranberry  jelly,  recipe  for,  233. 
Cream  : 

cream  in  milk,  92. 

whipped  cream,  99. 

See  also  Ice-cream. 
Cream  sauce,  recipe  for,  67. 
Cream  of  tartar  in  baking-powder, 

109. 
Creara-of-vegetable    soups,    recipes 

for,  248,  251. 
Ci-eamed  fish,  preparing,  203. 
Creamed  potatoes,  recipe  for,  GO. 
Creamy    rice    pudding,   recipe    for, 

270. 
Croquettes  : 

chicken  croquettes,  221. 

materials  used  in,  220. 

potato  croquettes,  222. 

savoury  rice  croquettes,  222. 

shaping  and  crumbing,  220. 

soup-meat  used  in,  163. 

white  sauce  for,  221. 
Cross-fib  of  beef,  location,  etc.,  174, 

182. 
Croutons  for  soups,  preparing,  249. 
Crumbs  : 

buttered    crumbs    for    scalloped 
dishes,  120. 

uses  for  bread  crumbs,  132. 
Crust  of  bread,,  composition  of,  113, 

131. 
Crustaceans,  definition  of,  210. 
Crystallization,  experiment  illustrat- 
ing, 260. 
Cucumbers,  serving,  243. 
Cup-cake,  making  (table),  268. 
Cup  custards,  recipe  for,  91. 
Curd  of  milk,  93,  95. 
Currants  : 

cleaning,  133. 

dried  currants,  228. 

serving,  230. 


Curry  of  mutton,  recipe  for,  172. 
Custards  : 

cup  custards,  recipe  for,  91. 

making,  272,  273. 

plain    soft    custard,    recipe    for, 
274. 

rennet  custards,  recipe  for,  96. 
Cutlets,  veal,  175. 

Dampers  in  coal  range,  use  and  man- 
agement of,  13. 
Dates,  food  value  of,  228. 
Decoction,  definition  of,  308. 
Delmonico  steaks,  description  of,  173. 
Desserts,  making,  272. 
Dextrin,  heated  dry  starch,  70. 
Diaphragm  of  a  fowl,  195. 
Diastase  in  seeds,  definition  of,  81. 
Diet: 

babies,  diet  for,  289. 

meat,  danger  of  eating  too  much 
meat,  178. 

mixed  diet,  reasons  for,  177. 

practical  points  about  feeding  a 
family,  141,  142. 

special  diet  for  the  sick,  296. 
Digestion : 

absorption  of  food,  197. 

action  of  digestive  juices  on  arti- 
cles of  food,  197. 

lesson  on  digestion  illustrated  by 
organs  of  fowl,  li)3. 

mastication  of  food,  196. 

of  albumin,  87. 

of  bread,  133. 

of  fat,  215. 

of  fish,  204. 

of  gelatine,  165. 

of  meat,  179. 

of  milk,  97. 

of  oysters,  209. 

of  poultry  and  game,  192. 

of  quick  breads,  112. 

of  starch,  71,  134,  197. 

summary  of  process  of  digestion, 
199. 


INDEX 


335 


Diseased  pork,  precaution  against, 

176. 
Dish-cloths,  cleaning,  46. 
Dish-washing,  directions  for,  42. 
Disinfectants: 

definition  of,  3.3. 

preservatives  of  food,  283. 
Double  boilers  for  steaming,  74. 
Dough  : 

definition  of,  106. 

kneading,  122,  1.'30. 

raising,  123. 
Drafts,  effect  of,  on  lighted  candle,  9, 
Drafts  in  coal  range,  13. 
Drawn  butter,  i-ecipe  for,  203. 
Dried  fruits  : 

composition  and  use  of,  228. 

imported  fruits,  cleaning,  2.35. 
Driukijig  water,   characteristics  of 

good  drinking  water,  26. 
Drop-batter,  definition  of,  106. 
Ducks,  193. 
Dumplings    for    brown    beef    stew, 

recipe  for,  167. 
Dust,  living  and  lifeless,  31. 
Dusting,  directions  for,  38. 

Economy : 

economy  in  using  the  best  flour, 
117. 

economy  in  marketing  and  choos- 
ing meat,  176. 

in  choosing  fresh  vegetables,  240. 

soup  an  economical  dish,  155. 
Egg  muffins,  recipe  for,  111  (table), 

268. 
Egg  nog,  recipe  for,  301. 
Egg  sauce,  recipe  for,  203. 
Eggs: 

beating  eggs,  89. 

breaking  eggs,  89. 

care  and  preservation  of,  84. 

composition  of,  83,  85. 

digestion  of,  86. 

egg  preparations  for  invalids,  301. 

food  value,  85. 


Eggs  {continued) : 

recipe  for  soft  cooked  eggs,  88. 

selection  and  testing,  83. 

study  of,  83. 

See  also  Albumin. 
Eggs  in  a  nest,  recipe  for,  90. 
Element,  definition  of,  50. 
Emulsion: 

digestion  of  fat,  215. 

experiment  illustrating,  97. 
Energy  in  coal,  21. 
Energy    supplied    to    the    body   by 

foods,  71,  73,  259. 
Entire  wheat  flour,  production  of, 
118. 

Fancy  breads,  recipes  for,  133. 
Fancy  omelets,  91. 
Farina,  steaming,  79. 
Fat: 

clarifying,  219. 

cooking  in,  frying  and  saute'ing, 
216. 

fat  suspended  in  milk,  97. 

removing  fat  from  stock,  161. 

use  of  fat  for  shortening,  etc., 
224. 
Fats :  * 

composition,  213. 

function  in  the  body,  138,  212. 
Faucets,  cleaning,  41. 
Feeding-bottles,  292. 
Fehling's  solution,  test  for  maltose, 

71. 
Fermented  liquors,  effect  of,  on  the 

body,  140. 
Ferments  and  fermentation,  explana- 
tion of,  128,  282. 
Fibre : 

in  meat,  145. 

in  potatoes,  62. 

in  vegetables,  238. 
Figs,  food  value  of,  228. 
Fillings  for  cakes,  recipes  for,  270. 
Filters,  cleansing,  etc.,  27. 
Finger  rolls,  making,  123. 


336 


INDEX 


Fire: 

cleaning  fire-box,  15. 

definition  of  kindling  point,  16. 

laying  a  fire,  15. 

management  of  coal  range,  11. 

management  of  gas  range,  18. 

management  of  kitchen  fire,  11. 

relation  of  air  to,  7-10. 

starting  a  fire,  15. 

See  also  Coal  and  Combustion. 
Fish : 

baking,  201. 

boiling,  202. 

broiling,  201. 

cleaning,  200. 

creamed,  203. 

distinction  from  shellfish,  200. 

food  value  and  digestion  of,  204. 

information  about,  206. 

recipes  for  sauces,  203. 

reheating,  203. 

scalloped,  203. 

selecting,  200. 

structure  of  a  fish,  200. 

See  also  Shellfish  and  Oysters. 
Fisli  balls,  recipe  for,  222. 
Flame,  definition  of,  9. 
Flank   of   beef,  location,   etc.,  174, 

183. 
Floors,  cleaning  and  care  of,  37. 
Flour : 

analysis  of  wheat  flour,  113. 

best  flour  the  most  economical, 
117. 

graham  flour,  118. 

manufacture  of  flour,  116. 

whole-wheat  flour,  118. 

See  also  Wheat. 
Flour-pastes,  macaroni,  etc.,  method 

of  making,  118. 
Folding,  directions  for,  00. 
Food  adjuncts,  definition  of,  140. 
Food : 

animal  and  plant  foods,  139. 

classification  of,  137,  139. 

function  of  food,  139. 


Food  (continued) : 

methods  of  cooking,  52. 

reasons  for  cooking,  52. 

See  also  Diet. 
Foods,  elements  in,  50. 
Force  supplied  to  the  body  by  food, 

71,  73,  259. 
Fowls,  see  Chickens. 
Freezing  point  of  water,  29. 
French  bread-pans,  use  of,  131. 
French  dressing  for  salads,  254. 
French  omelet,  recipe  for,  90. 
Fresh-water  fish,  information  about, 

207. 
Fricassee  : 

chicken,  preparation  and  recipe, 
193,  194. 

definition  of,  53,  167. 
Friction,  use  of,  in  cleaning,  33. 
Frosting  for  cakes,  recipes  for,  270. 
Fruit : 

adding  fruit  to  cakes,  267. 

composition  and  food  value  of, 
227. 

definition  of  fruit,  227. 

directions  for  stewing,  232. 

dried  fruits,  228. 

effect  of  cooking  on,  231. 

fruit  served  with  cereals,  76. 

preparing  and  serving,  229,  230. 

removing  fruit  stains,  46. 

rules  for  eating  fruit,  228. 

sugaring,  230. 

See  also  Apples,  etc. 
Fruit  cake,  268. 
Fruit  sauce,  271. 
Frying : 

definition  of  term,  53. 

digestion  of  fried  food,  215. 

directions  for  frying,  217. 

objection  to  frying  meat,  151. 
Fuel  foods : 

fat  from  animals  and  oil  from 
plants,  212. 

starchy  plants,  59. 
Fuels,  use  of  coal,  wood,  etc.,  20. 


INDEX 


337 


Game,  food  value,  selection,  etc.,  192. 
Garbage-pail,  cleaning,  etc.,  41,  42. 
Gas  stoves : 

broiling  by,  150. 

construction  and  management  of, 
17. 
Gases : 

explanation  of,  29. 

natural  and  artificial  gas,  23. 
Gastric  juice: 

action  on  albumin,  87. 

action  on  meat,  87,  179. 

glands  in  stomach,  secreting,  197. 
Gelatin,  digestion  of,  1G5. 
Gelatine : 

directions  for  using,  163. 

gelatinous  portions  of  meat,  uses 
for,  155. 

jellies,  recipes  for,  164. 
Gelatinoids,  function  in  the   body, 

138. 
Gingersnaps,  whole  wheat,  making 

(table),  268. 
Gingerbread,  making  (table),  268. 
Glasses,  washing,  44. 
Glucose,  197,  262. 

manufacture  of  commercial  glu- 
cose, 262. 
Gluten : 

composition  of,  114. 

definition  of,  113. 

recipe  for  gluten  wafers,  304. 

test  for,  114. 
Gold  cake,  making  (table),  268, 
Goose,  193. 
Graham  flour,  116. 
Granulated  sugar,  manufacture  of, 

261. 
Grape-fruit,  serving,  231. 
Grape  sugar,  definition  of,  262. 
Gravy : 

brown,  making,  153. 

stock  used  instead  of  water,  161. 
Grease,  removal  of ,  34,  37. 
Greasing  cake-pans,  267. 
Green  pea  soup,  recipe  for,  249. 


Green  vegetables,  care  and  cooking 

of,  240,  242. 
Griddle  cakes,  recipe  for,  103. 
Gristle,  157. 
Gruel,  recipes  for,  300. 

Haddock,  information  about,  206. 
Halibut,  information  about,  206. 
Hams,  176,  187. 

Hard  and  soft  coal,  difference  be- 
tween, 21. 
Hard  sauce,  recipe  for,  272. 
Hard  water,  softening,  25,  30. 
Harvesting  of  wheat,  81. 
Hash : 

browning  hash,  171. 

corned  beef  hash,  171. 

directions  for  making,  170, 

fish  hash,  preparing,  204. 

minced  meat  on  toast,  171. 
Health,  use  of  water  in  the  body,  30, 
Heat : 

albumin,  heat  as  test  for,  86. 

cooking  meat,  facts  as  to  effect  of 
heat,  146. 

effect  of  heat  on  starch,  70. 

effect  of  heat  on  sugar,  262, 

effect  of  heat  on  water,  27, 

yeast,  growth  of,  aided  by  heat, 
127. 

See  also  Fuel  foods. 
Homes  and  home-making,  1. 
Hominy,    purchase,   and    directions 

for  cooking,  76,  79. 
Honey,  262. 

Household  science,  definition  of,  2. 
Huckleberries,     indigestibility     of, 

228. 
Hydrochloric  acid  in  gastric  juice, 

87. 
Hydrogen : 

element  of  food,  51. 

starch,  hydrogen  in,  70. 

Ice,  freezing  point  of  water,  29. 
Ice-box,  care  of,  47. 


338 


INDEX 


Ice-cream : 

directions  for  freezing  cream,  277. 

flavorings  for,  279. 

freezing  mixture  for,  276. 

recipe  for  plain  ice-cream,  279. 
Iced  tea,  .HIO. 
Icings  for  cakes,  270. 

chocolate  icing,  271. 

quick  frosting,  270. 

soft  frosting,  270. 
Ices,  see  Water  ices. 
Imi)lements  and  materials  for  clean- 
ing purposes,  33,  47. 
Indian  corn,  74,  79. 
Infusion,  definition  of,  308. 
Ingredients  iu  cakes,  proportions  of, 

265. 
Inorganic  foodstuffs,  chief,  139. 
Inorganic  matter,  definition  of  tei-m, 

25. 
Insects  in  kitchen,  exterminating,  48. 
Intestines,  absorption  of  food  by,  197. 
Iodine  as  test  for  starch,  61,  68. 
Irish  moss  jelly,  recipe  for,  303. 
Irish  moss  lemonade,  making,  306. 
Irish  oats,  soaking  before  cooking, 

77. 
Iron: 

cleaning,  34. 

in  blood,  137. 
Isinglass,   manufacture  of  gelatine, 

166. 
Italian  pastes,  method  of  making, 
118. 

Jellies : 

cranberry,  233. 

gelatine,  1()3. 

Irish  moss,  303. 

making,  286. 

wine  jelly  for  invalids,  306. 

Kerosene : 

fuel,  use  of  kerosene  as,  22. 
polished  wood,  cleaning  with  kero- 
sene, 35. 


Kidneys,  location  of,  173. 
Kindling-point,  16. 
Kneading : 

directions  for,  122. 

reasons  for,  130. 
Knives,  steel,  cleaning,  34,  43,  44. 
Knuckle  of  veal,  location  of,  184. 
Kumiss,  recipe  for,  303. 

Lacteals,  digestion  of  fat  by,  215. 
Lactic  acid  in  sour  milk,  95. 
Lamb : 

chops,  broiling,  150. 

good  meat,  selection  of,  149. 

location  of  cuts  of,  175,  185. 

stew,  recipe  for,  166. 
Larding : 

fish,  201. 

steak,  169. 
Laying  fires,  method,  15. 
Lead  poisoning  from  water,  risk  of, 

27. 
Leaf-lard,  making,  176. 
Lean  meat,  composition,   structure, 

and  preparation,  144. 
Leg  of  mutton  : 

directions  for  boiling,  154. 

location  of,  175, 185. 
Legumes,  definition  of,  237. 
Legumin,  definition  of,  237. 
Lemon  ice,  making,  279. 
Lemon  jelly,  recipe  for,  164. 
Lemon  sauce,  recipe  for,  271. 
Lemon  Avhey,  recipe  for,  307. 
Lemonade : 

Irish  moss  lemonade,  making,  306. 

recipe  for,  234. 
Lentils,  proteid  food,  237. 
Lettuce,  preparing  for  salad,  253. 
Light  diet  for  the  sick,  297. 
Light  fruit  cake,  making,  268. 
Lightening  of  batters,  etc.,  103,  105, 

107. 
Lighting  gas  ranges,  directions  for, 

19. 
Liquid  diet  for  the  sick,  297. 


INDEX 


339 


Liquid  yeast,  120. 
Liquids,  explanatiou  of,  29. 
Liquors,    alcoliolic,    effect    on    the 

body,  140. 
Lima  beans,  information  about,  244. 
Lime,  function  in  the  body,  139. 
Litmus  paper,  action  of  acids  and 

alkalies  on,  105. 
Loaf  sugar,  manufacture  of,  2G1. 
Lobsters,  210. 

Loin  of  beef,  location  of,  173,  180. 
Loin  of  mutton  and  lamb,  175,  185. 

Macaroni : 

baked,  with  cheese,  120. 

composition,  etc.,  118. 

manufacture  of,  IIS. 

soup,  making  and  serving,  1G2. 
Mace'doine  salad,  254,  25(5. 
Mackerel,  information  about,  206. 
Maize,  cereal  food,  74. 
Maitre  d'hotel  butter,  recipe  for,  151. 
Maltose,  digestive  action  on  starch, 

71. 
Manufactures : 

cocoa  and  chocolate,  315. 

flour,  115. 

gelatine,  165. 

sugar,  260. 
Maple  sugar,  manufacture  of,  262. 
Marketing,  hints  on,  176. 
Marrow  in  bone,  157. 
Mashed  potato,  recipe  for,  66. 
Mastication  of  food,  196. 
Matter,  nature  and  changes  of,  49. 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  254,  257. 
Meals,  planning,  142. 
Measuring,  directions  and  tables,  53, 

54,  56. 
Meat : 

chartreuse  of  rice  and  meat,  re- 
cipe for,  171. 

cuts,  marketing  and  food  value, 
172. 

diet,  danger  of  eating  too  much 
meat,  178. 


Meat  (continued) : 

preparations  for  the  sick,  304. 

structure,  composition,  and  cook- 
ing, 144. 

See  also  Beef,  Mutton,  etc. 
Metals : 

action  of  acids  on,  51. 

cleaning,  experiments,  35. 

rust  and  tarnish,  removing,  36. 
Microscopic  plants,  study  of  bacteria, 

280. 
Milk : 

analysis  of,  92. 

action  of  renuet  on,  96. 

care  of,  i>4. 

composition  of,  93. 

diet  for  babies,  special  prepara- 
tions of  milk,  289. 

digestion  of,  97. 

directions  for  buying  milk,  94. 

food  value  of,  93. 

milk   preparations  for   invalids, 
302. 

pasteurizing,  291,  293. 

scalding,  95. 

souring,  95. 

study  of,  93. 
Milk-sugar  in  whey,  93. 
Minced  meat  on  toast,  recipe  for,  171. 
Mineral  salts,  see  Salts. 
Mixed- vegetable  soup,  recipe  for,  162. 
Mixing,  directions  for  mixing  muf- 
fins, bread,  etc.,  56,  110,  122, 
266. 
Modified  milk  for  babies,  290. 
Molasses : 

manufacture  of,  260. 

soda  used  with,  260,  264. 
Molasses  cakes,  making,  267,  269. 
Molasses  candy,  recipe  for,  263. 
Mold,  description  and  illustration,  32. 
Molluscs,  class  of  shellfish,  208. 
Muffins : 

corumeal,  112. 

egg  muffins,  111. 

hints  on  mixing,  56. 


340 


INDEX 


Muffins  {continued) : 

plain,  111. 

recipes  for,  111. 

table,  2G8. 

whole  wheat,  112. 
Muskmelons,  serving,  231. 
Mutton,  114. 

boiling  leg  of  mutton,  directions 
for,  154. 

broth,  making,  305. 

chops,  broiling,  150. 

curry  of  mutton,  recipe  for,  172, 

location  of  cuts  of,  175,  185. 

selection,  149. 
Myosin,  146. 

Natural  gas,  source  of,  23. 

Navel  of  beef,  174,  183. 

Nerves,  phosphorus  found  in,  137. 

Neutralization,  explanation  of,  106. 

Nickel,  cleaning,  42. 

Nitric    acid,    test    for    nitrogenous 

substances,  87. 
Nitrogen,  properties  of,  51. 
Nitrogenous  foods,  definition  of,  85. 
Noodle  soup,  recipe  for,  120,  162. 
Normal  diet,  explanation  of,  141. 

Oatmeal : 

gruel,  recipe  for,  300. 

steaming,  directions  for,  75,  79. 

value  as  food,  78. 
Oatmeal-water  for  babies,  294. 
Oil: 

cottonseed  oil,  213. 

definition  of,  212. 

distinction  between  fats  and  oils, 
212. 

frying  in  olive  oil,  218. 

manufacture  of  olive  oil,  212. 
Oilcloth,  cleaning,  38. 
Olein,  212. 

Oleomargarine,  composition  of,  213. 
Olive  oil : 

frying  in,  218. 

manufacture  of,  212. 


Omelets : 

fancy,  recipes  for,  91. 

French,  recipe  for,  90. 
Onion,  growth  of,  experiment,  237. 
Oranges,  serving,  231. 
Organic  foodstuffs,  chief,  137. 
Organic  matter,  definition  of  term, 

25. 
Organs  of  the  body,  definition  and 

functions  of,  136. 
Ossein,  157. 
Ovens : 

cake-baking,  heat  of  oven,  267. 

construction    and    management, 
12,  16,  18. 
Oxidation : 

definition  of,  50,  72. 

oxidation  of  food  in  the  body,  6, 72. 

rusting  of  metals,  50. 

slow  and  rapid  oxidation,  72. 
Oxygen : 

as  an  element  of  food,  50, 

combustion,  10. 

oxygen  in  starch,  70. 

oxygen  necessary  to   growth  of 
yeast,  128. 

properties  of,  50. 

use  of,  in  the  body,  6. 
Oyster: 

food  value  and  digestion,  209. 

how  the  oyster  lives,  208. 

structure  of,  208. 
Oysters : 

frying,  directions  for,  219,  223. 

oyster  stew,  210. 

preparation  of,  209. 

scalloped  oysters,  210. 

serving  raw  oysters,  209. 

Packing  flour,  117. 
Paint,  cleaning,  38. 
Palmitin  contained  in  fats,  212. 
Pan-baking,  53. 
Pan-broiling,  151. 

Pancreatic  juice,  composition  of  and 
use  in  digestion  of  food,  197, 


INDEX 


341 


"  Pancreatizecl  milk,"  295. 
Paraffin,  covering  jelly,  287. 
Parker  House  rolls,  recipe  for,  132. 
Parsley : 

cutting,  directions  for,  66. 

preparing  for  salad,  253. 
Pasteurizing  milk,  291,  293. 
Pastry,    digestion     in     the     body, 

215. 
Peach  ice-cream,  making,  279. 
Peaches : 

dried,  soaking,  235. 

canning,  285. 
Peanut,  brittle,  candy,  recipe  for, 

264. 
Pears: 

canning,  285. 

directions  for  baking,  233. 
Peas: 

analysis  of,  237. 

green  pea  soup,  recipe  for,  219. 

information  about,  246. 

split  pea  soup  (table),  251. 
Pectin,  227,  286. 
Pepper,  white  and  black,  use  of,  in 

cooking,  66. 
Pepsin : 

experiment  showing  digestion  of 
eggs,  87. 

gluten  in  bread  digested  by  pep- 
sin, 134. 

in  gastric  juice,  86. 
Peptones,  197. 

Peptonized  milk,  295,  .300,  302. 
Perch,  information  about,  207. 
Phosphate  of  lime  in  bone,  157. 
Phosphorus : 

burning,  17. 

in  nerves,  137. 
Physical  changes  of  matter,  50. 
Pineapple,  serving,  231. 
Pineapples,  food  value,  228. 
Plain    bread    pudding,    recipe    for, 

273. 
Plain  muffins,  recipe  for.  111. 
Plain  spice  cake,  making,  269. 


Plant  foods: 

definition  of,  139. 

food  value  of  cereals,  78. 
Plant  origin  of  coal,  20. 
Plate  of  beef,  location,  174,  182. 
Plums,  canning,  285. 
Polished  wood,  cleaning  with  kero- 
sene, 35. 
Popovers,  recipe  for,  102. 
Pork: 

cuts  of,  location,  etc.,  175,  387. 

flesh  of  swine  known  as,  144. 
Porterhouse  steak,  149,  152,  173. 
Potash : 

grease  removed  by,  34. 

potatoes,  potash  salts  contained 
in,  62. 

use  in  the  body,  139. 
Potato: 

croquettes,  recipe  for,  222. 

salad,  recipe  for,  256. 

soup  (table),  251. 
Potatoes : 

baked,  59. 

boiled,  59. 

cereals  compared  with,  74. 

choosing  and  keeping,  63. 

composition,  61,  62. 

cooking,  64,  65. 

creamed,  66. 

food  value,  67. 

growing  and  harvesting,  63. 

mashed,  66. 

paring,  64. 

riced,66. 

sprouting,  63. 

study  of  a  white  potato,  60. 

sweet  potatoes,  67. 
Poultry,  food  value,  selection,  etc., 

192. 
Pour-batter,  definition  of,  106. 
Powdered   sugar,    manufacture    of, 

262. 
Practice,  definition  of,  2. 
Pre-digested   foods    for  babies  and 
invalids,  295,  300. 


342 


INDEX 


Preservation  of  food,  280. 

eggs,  preserving,  84. 
Prime   ribs  of  beef,   location,   etc., 

174,  180. 
Proteids : 

assimilation  of,  in  the  body,  178. 

beef-j  nice  containing  i^roteids,  145. 

definition  of,  137. 

digestion  of,  197. 

fuel  foods,  139. 

hints  on  diet,  142. 

pulp  of  meat  consisting  of,  146. 

vegetables  supplying  proteids ,  237. 
Prunes : 

food  value  of,  228. 

stewing,  235. 
Ptyalin,  71. 
Puddings : 

bread-pudding  recipes,  273. 

cottage  pudding  (table) ,  2G8. 

recipes,  273. 

sauces,  recipes  for,  271. 

suet  pudding  (table),  2()8. 
Pure    and     impure    water,  organic 

and  inorganic  imj)urities,  25. 
Purees : 

bean  puree,  recipe  for,  252. 

definition  of  purees,  248. 
Putrefaction  caused  by  bacteria,  282. 
Putz  pomade,  composition  of,  37. 
Pylorus,  digestion  of  food,  197. 

Queen  of  puddings,  recipe  for,  273. 
Quick  breads,  definition  of,  102,  lOG. 
Quick  frosting  for  cakes,  270. 
Quince  jelly,  making,  287. 

Rack  of  veal,  location  of,  175,  184. 
Radishes,  serving,  243. 
Raisins : 

food  value,  228. 

stoning,  267. 
Ranges : 

cleaning  and  care  of,  40. 

construction  and  management  of, 
11, 17. 


Raw  beef  sandwiches  for  invalids, 

making,  146. 
Raw  fruit,  eating,  rules  for,  229. 
Raw  meat,  care  of,  148. 
Raw  oysters,  serving,  209. 
Raw  sugar,  manufacture  of,  260. 
Raw  vegetables,  serving,  243. 
Rechauffes: 

directions  for  making,  170. 

recipes  for,  170. 

soup-meat  used  in,  163. 
Red  meat,  nutriment  contained  in, 

178. 
Refrigerator,  care  of,  47. 
Rendering  fat,  218. 
Rennet : 

action  on  milk,  96, 128. 

custard,  recipe  for,  96. 
Rennin,  aid  in  digestion  of  milk,  97. 
Rhubarb  sauce,  making,  234. 
Rice : 

cereal  food,  74. 

chartreuse  of  rice  and  meat,  recipe 
for,  171. 

cooking,  directions  for,  75,  79. 

creamy  rice  pudding,  recipe  for, 
276. 

making  and  serving  soup,  162. 

savory  rice  croquettes,  232. 

value  as  food,  78. 

washing,  76. 
Riced  potato,  recipe  for,  66. 
Rising  of  bread,  123,  131. 
Roasting : 

basting  meat,  reasons  for,  153. 

definition  of  term,  52. 

directions  for,  152,  153. 

gas  range,  use  of  broiling  oven  for 
roasting,  19. 
Rolled  flank  of  beef,  recipe  for,  168. 
Rolls,  bread,  making,  12;5,  125,  132. 
Roots,  feeding-organs  of  plants,  2.37. 
Rottenstone,    use    of,    for    cleaning 

purposes,  34. 
Round  of  beef,  location  of,  174,  181. 
Rump  of  beef,  location  of,  174,  180. 


INDEX 


343 


Rust,  36. 
Rye,  7i. 

Sal-soda,  see  Soda. 
Salads  and  salad-making,  252. 
cole-slaw,  257. 
cooked  salad  dressing,  256. 
mayonnaise  dressing,  257. 

mixed  vegetable  salad,  256. 

potato  salad,  256. 

stuffed  tomato  salad,  258. 
Saliva,    action    on    food,    71,    134, 

196. 
Salmon,  information  about,  207. 
Salt  meats,  cooking  and  food  value 

of,  131. 
Salt: 

action  on  meat,  147. 

making,  51. 

preservation  of  food  by,  284. 

solubility  in  water,  24. 
Salts : 

definition  of,  51. 

in  vegetables,  236,  238. 

mineral  salts  in  wheat,  114. 

test  for  salts  in  meat,  146. 
Salt-water  fish,  table  of  information, 

206. 
Sandwiches,  raw  beef,  for  invalids, 

146. 
Sapolio,  composition  of,  37. 
Saponified  fat,  215. 
Sauces,  recipes  for : 

apple,  232. 

caramel,  273. 

drawn  butter,  203. 

egg,  203. 

fish,  203. 

piidding,  271. 

rhubarb,  234. 

stock  used  instead  of  water,  161. 

tartar,  202. 

thickening  with  stai'ch,  70. 

tomato,  120,  151. 

white,  67,  221,  243. 
Sausages,  making,  176. 


Sauteing,   definition  of,  and  direc- 
tions for,  53,  223. 
Savory  rice   croquettes,  recipe  for, 

222. 
Scalding  milk,  95. 
Scalloped  dishes : 

buttered  crumbs  for,  120. 

fish,  preparing,  203. 

vegetables,  243. ' 
Scalloped  oysters,  recipe  for,  210. 
Science,  household,  definition  of,  2. 
Scrubbing  brushes,  cleaning,  47. 
Scrubbing  floors,  37. 
Seasonings,  55. 
Seeds,  oil  contained  in,  214. 
Sewage,  pollution  of  water,  26. 
Shad,  information  about,  207. 
Shaddocks,  serving,  231. 
Shellfish  as  food,  cooking,  etc.,  200. 
Shin  of  beef,  location  of,  174. 
Shirred  egg,  recipe  for,  302. 
Shortening : 

batters,  etc.,  107. 

beef  fat  as,  224. 
Shoulder  of  mutton,  175,  186. 
Shredded-wheat    gruel,   recipe    for, 

301. 
Shrimps,  210. 
Sick,  cookery  for  the : 

arrangement  of  invalid's  tray,  307. 

beef  juice,  305. 

beef  tea,  304. 

chop  broiled  in  paper,  305. 

clam  broth,  306. 

cornmeal  gruel,  300. 

egg  preparations,  301. 

Irish  moss  jelly,  303. 

Irish  moss  lemonade,  306. 

lemon  whey,  307. 

meat  preparations,  304. 

milk  preparations.  302. 

oatmeal  gruel,  300. 

pre-digested  foods   for   invalids, 
300. 

raw  beef  sandwiches,  146. 

rules  for  diet,  296-299. 


344 


INDEX 


Sick,  cookery  for  the  (co7itinued)  : 

shredded-wheat  gruel,  301. 

wine  jelly,  30G. 
Silver  cake,  making  (table),  268. 
Silver,  cleaning,  34,  44,  45. 
Simmering,  regulation  of  gas  range 

burner,  19. 
Simmering-point  of  water,  28. 
Sinks,   construction    and    cleaning, 

39. 
Sirloin  of  beef,  149,  152,  173,  181. 
Skim  milk,  use  of,  94. 
Skirt  steak,  location,  etc.,  174,  183. 
Smelts,  information  about,  207. 
Smoke,  product  of  combustion,  10. 
Soap,  composition  and  cleaning  prop- 
erties, 34. 
SoaiJstone  griddle,  use  of,  104. 
Soda : 

cleaning,  care   in  using  sal-soda, 
34,  35. 

hard  water,  softening,  25. 

See  also  Baking-soda. 
Sodium : 

in  the  body,  139. 

water  decomposed  by,  30. 
Soft  and  bard   coal,  difference  be- 
tween, 21. 
Solids,  explanation  of,  29. 
Solubility  of  substances  in  water, 

experiments,  24. 
Soot: 

preventing  accumulation  of  soot 
in  coal  range,  12. 

product  of  combustion,  10. 
Soup-making,  155,  162. 
Soup-stock : 

making,  155,  158. 

use  of  vegetable  cooking  water, 
242. 
Soups : 

cream-of-vegetable  soups,  248, 251. 

croutons,  preparing,  249. 

green  pea  soup,  249. 

noodles,  making,  120. 

lomato  soup,  250,  251. 


Sour  milk: 

cause  of,  95. 

neutralization  of,  by  soda,   105, 
106. 
Spaghetti : 

manufacture  of,  118. 

tomato  sauce  with,  120. 
Sparkling  jelly,  serving,  165. 
Spice  cake,  making  (table) ,  268. 
Spinach,  information  about,  247. 
Split-pea  soup  (table),  251. 
Spoiling  of  food,  relation  of  bacteria 

to,  280. 
Sponge,  definition  of,  124. 
Sponge  cake,  making  (table) ,  268. 
Sponge    cakes,    definition    of,    265, 

266. 
Spring  chicken,  definition  of  term, 

192. 
Spring  wheat : 

composition  of,  118. 

difference    between    spring    and 
winter  wheats,  81. 
Sprouting  of  potato  and  composition 
of  potato,  relation  between,  63. 
Squashes : 

care  of,  240. 

cooking,  247. 

information  about,  247. 
Stains,  fruit,  removing,  46. 
Stale  bread,  uses  for,  131. 
Standard  cake,  making  (table),  268. 
Starch: 

cells  in,  69,  136. 

composition  of,  68,  70. 

digestion  of,  71,  i;34,  197. 

effect  of  heat  on,  70. 

food  value  of,  71. 

prevention  of  lumping  when  cook- 
ing, 69. 

sources  of,  68. 

study  of,  69. 

test  for,  61,  68. 

thickening  sauces  with,  70. 

See  also  Wheat,  Flour,  Potatoes, 
etc. 


INDEX 


345 


Steam,  changing  of  water  into,  28. 
Steam-engine,    body    compared    to, 

72. 
Steaming : 

cereals,  steaming,  directions  for, 
74,  79. 

definition  of  terra,  53. 

double  boilers,  using,  74. 

moist  and  dry  steaming,  74. 
Steapsin,  197. 
Stearin,  212. 
Steel  knives: 

cleaning,  34,  43,  44. 

removal  of  rust  from,  36. 
Sterilization: 

definition  of,  284. 

directions  for  sterilizing,  284. 

milk,  291. 

sterilizing  jars,  285. 
Stewing: 

definition  of  term,  52. 

directions  for  stewing  meat,  160, 
169. 

fruit,  directions  for,  232. 

prunes,  directions  for,  235. 
Stews : 

chicken,  preparing,  194. 

dumplings  for,  167. 

lamb  slew,  recipe  for,  166. 

oj'ster  stew,  210. 

stock  used  instead  of  water  in ,  161. 
Stirring  ingredients,  directions  for, 

90. 
Stock-making,  155,  158. 

vegetable  cooking  water,  using, 
242. 
Stomach,  digestion  of  food,  196. 
Stove-blacking,  composition  of,  37. 
Stoves : 

broiling  by  gas  stove,  151. 

cleaning  and  care  of  stove,  46. 

construction  and  management  of 
gas  stoves,  17. 

ranges    and    stoves,    distinction 
between,  12. 
Strainer-cloths,  washing,  46. 


Strainers,  wire,  washing,  43. 
Strawberries,  canning,  285. 
Strawberry  ice-cream,  making,  279. 
String  beans: 

information  about,  245. 

preparing  for  salad,  253. 
Striped  bass,  information  about,  208. 
Stuffed  tomato  salad,  255,  258. 
Stuffing: 

fisb,  baked,  stuffing  for,  201. 

recipe  for,  168. 
Suet: 

butter  or    drippings   substituted 
for,  268. 

frying    with     suet    mixed    with 
lard,  224. 
Suet  pudding,  making  (table),  268. 
Sugar: 

boiling,  263. 

food  value,  259. 

growth  of  yeast  hastened  by,  126. 

maltose  formed  in  starch  diges- 
tion, 71. 

manufacture,  260. 

soluble  in  water,  24. 
Sugar  cookies,  making  (table),  268. 
Sugaring  fruits,  230. 
Sunlight : 

as  aid  to  cleanliness,  33. 

coal,  sun  as  source  of  energy  in, 
21. 
Swedish  rolls,  recipe  for,  133. 
Sweeping  floors,  37. 
Sweet  breads,  definition  of,  176. 
Sweet  potatoes,  cooking,  67. 
Sweets  and  sugar,  259. 

Tallow,  purified  mutton  fat,  175. 
Tannin,  309,  313. 

test  for,  313. 
Tapioca : 

apple  tapioca,  recipe  for,  275. 

manufacture  of,  272. 
Tarnish  on  metal,  explanation  and 

removal  of,  36,  45. 
Tartar  sauce,  recipe  for,  203. 


346 


INDEX 


Tea: 

composition  of,  309. 

directions  for  making,  310. 

effect  of  waj;er  on ,  309. 

growth  and  preparation  of,  310. 

hints  on  huying,  309. 

iced  tea,  310. 

stimulating  property  of,  309. 

study  of,  308. 
Tea-biscuit,  recipe  for,  lOG. 
Temperature  of  water,  boiling  and 

freezing  points,  etc.,  28. 
Tender  meat,  cooking,  148. 
Tendon    in    meat,    explanation    of, 

147. 
Theine  in  tea  and  coffee,  309,  313. 
Theobroma,  name  given  to   cocoa, 

310. 
Theory,  definition  of,  2. 
Thoracic  duct,  215. 
Tin,  cleaning,  34. 
"Tissue,  definition  of,  13(5. 
Tissue-building  foods,  83,  144. 
Tissues  of  the  body  renewed  by  food, 

72. 
Toast : 

directions  for  making,  88. 

eggs  dropped  on  toast,  89. 

using  gas  range  for  toasting',  19. 

water  toast,  making,  88. 
Tomato : 

sauce,  recipe  for,  120,  151. 

spaghetti  with  tomato  sauce,  120. 

soup,  recipe  for,  1G3,  250,  251. 

stuffed  tomato  salad,  255,  258. 
Tomatoes : 

canning,  directions  for,  28G. 

serving,  243. 
Tough  meat: 

explanation  of,  148. 

stewing  and  braising,  165. 
Towels  and  cloths,  care  of,  45. 
Trade  names  of  sugars,  2(il. 
Training  for  home   making,  impor- 
tance of,  3. 
Tripe  as  food,  176. 


Tripoli,  use  of,  for  cleaning  pur- 
poses, 34. 

Trypsin,  197. 

Tuber,  potato  stem,  61,  63. 

Turnip, cream-of-turnipsoup  (table), 
251. 

Turkeys,  selection  of,  193. 

Typhoid  fever,  bacteria  causing,  281. 

Vanilla  ice-cream,  making,  279. 
Vapor,  definition  of,  28. 
Veal : 

flesh  of  calves  known  as,  144. 

location  of  cuts  of,  175,  184. 
Vegetable  foods,  see  Plant  foods. 
A^egetables : 

cooked,     preparing     for     salad, 
253. 

food  value,  selection,  etc.,  235. 

preparation  of  fresh  vegetables, 
241. 

study  of  growing  vegetables,  238. 
Vermicelli : 

manufacture,  etc.,  118,  120. 

soup,  making  and  serving,  162. 
Villi  in  intestines,  absorption  of  food 
by,  198. 

Wafers,  gluten,  recipe  for,  304. 
AVarmed-over  dishes,  170,  203. 
Washing  dishes,  directions  for,  42. 
Washing-soda,  see  Soda. 
Water : 

action  of  cold  and  hot  water  on 
meat,  experiments,  147,  154. 

as  natural  aid  to  cleanliness,  33. 

as  product  of  combustion,  9. 

characteristics  of  good  drinking 
water,  26. 

effect  of  cold  on,  29. 

effect  of  heat  on,  27. 

effect  of  water  on  tea,  309. 

filtering,  27. 

function  in  the  body,  139. 

potatoes,  percentage  of  water  in, 
62. 


IXDEX 


347 


"Water  (continued) : 

soft  water  best  for  cleauing  and 
cooking,  25. 

solvent,  water  as,  24. 

uses,  composition,  etc.,  23. 
Water-bugs  in  kitchen,  exterminat- 
ing, 48. 
Water-ices  : 

directions  for  making,  27G,  278. 

recipe  for  lemon  ice,  279. 
Water  toast,  making,  88. 
AVater  vapor,  definition  of,  28. 
Weakfish,  information  about,  207. 
Weights   and    measures,  directions 

and  tables,  53,  54. 
Wells,  pollution  of,  by  sewage,  26. 
Wheat : 

analysis  of  wheat  flour,  113. 

composition  of,  114. 

directions  for  cooking,  79. 

examination  of  wheat  grain,  115. 

food  value  of,  114. 

harvesting  wheat,  81. 

king  of  cereals,  73,  80. 

shredded  wheat  gruel,  recipe  for, 
301. 

spring  and  winter  wheat,  81,  118. 

study  of,  80,  113. 
Whey,  93,  95. 

Whipped  cream,  recipe  for,  99. 
White  bread  : 

comparison  with  other  foods,  135. 

making,  122. 
Whitefish,  information  about,  207. 
White  fricassee  of  chicken,  prepar- 
ing, 194. 


White  of  egg : 

composition  of,  85. 

separating  from  yolk,  89. 
White  potato,  study  of,  00. 
White  sauce,  recipe  for,  67,  221,  243. 
Whiting,   use  of,  for  cleaning  pur- 
poses, 34. 
Whole  oatmeal,  see  Oatmeal. 
Whole-wheat : 

bread,  making,  124. 

flour,  production  of,  118. 

gingersnaps,  making  (table),  2(58. 

muffins,  recipe  for,  112. 
Wine  jelly,  recipe  for,  306. 
Winter  and  spring  wheats,  difference 

between,  81. 
Winter  vegetables,  care  of,  240. 
Wood,  cleaning,  34,  35,  37. 
Work  of  the  body,  71. 
Working-men,  diet  for,  142. 

Yeast  : 

action  of,  on  sugar,  128. 

action  in  bread-raising,  128,  129. 

bacteria  compared  with,  281. 

composition  of,  125. 

cultivated  yeasts,  128. 

growth  of,  126,  127. 

home-made  yeast,  128. 

oxygen  obtained  by,  128. 

study  of,  125. 
Yolk  of  eggs : 

composition  of,  85. 

separating  from  white.  89. 

Zinc,  cleaning,  47. 


NATURE    STUDY 

IN 

ELEMENTARY    SCHOOLS 

By  LUCY  LANGDON  WILLIAMS  WILSON,   Ph.D. 


H  Manual  for  Ccacbcrs 

Illustrated.    Cloth.     i6mo.    Price  90  cents,  net 

H  fnrst  JVature  Reader,  for  second  year  work 
Illustrated.    Cloth.     i6mo.    Price  35  cents,  net 

H  Second  JVaturc  Reader,  for  third  year  and  fourth  year  work 
Illustrated.    Cloth.     i6nio.    Price  35  cents,  net 


Julia  Richman 

Principal  Public 
School  J7,  New 
York  City 


Education 


New  England 
Journal  of 
Education 


"We  have  used  Mrs.  Wilson's  'Nature  Study 
in  Elementary  Schools '  since  June,  and  my 
teachers  are  unanimous  in  their  verdict  that  it  is 
the  best  guide  to  their  nature  work  that  has 
come  to  our  notice.  It  is  hard  to  select  a  special 
merit  in  a  work  so  full  of  good  things,  but  its 
suggestions  and  its  correlated  language  work 
have  been  of  the  greatest  value.  No  teacher 
should  be  without  a  copy." 

"  We  have  seen  no  book  along  this  line  that  is 
more  stimulating  and  inspiring.  It  shows  the 
teacher  just  how  to  go  to  work  to  get  the  pupils 
interested  and  to  make  them  observant.  This  is 
a  modern  subject,  and  it  is  handled  in  this  volume 
in  a  modern  and  masterly  manner.  We  com- 
mend the  work  to  all  teachers  and  parents." 

"This  is  an  attractive  manual  on  'Nature 
Study,'  full  of  suggestion,  abounding  in  infor- 
mation, instinct  with  inspiration.  Nothing  has 
yet  appeared  along  this  line  that  is  more  com- 
plete, varied,  judicious,  and  directive  than  this 
book  ;  it  is  peerless." 


THE    MACMILLAN    COMPANY 

66   FIFTH   AVENUE,    NEW   YORK 


HANDBOOK  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 
AND  HOUSEHOLD  ARTS 

FOR   USE    IN    ELEriENTARY   SCHOOLS 

Edited  by  LUCY   LANGDON    WILLIAMS    WILSON,    Ph.D.,  of  the 

Philadelphia  Normal  School.  With  a  preface  by  Mrs.  Ellen  H. 
Richards,  of  the  Massachusetts  Institute  uf  Technology;  and  with 
chapters  contributed  by  other  well-known  specialists. 


H  JManual  for  Ceacbers.         cioth.    .2mo.    $..oo  net 

H    KcadCt**  Cloth.       i2mo.      $.60  net 


The  author  says  in  her  introduction :  "  The  course  of  study  out- 
lined in  this  handbook  has  already  stood  the  test  of  practical  appli- 
cation in  the  schoolroom  with  excellent  results.  The  author  believes 
that  it  may  be  pursued  with  profit  both  to  teacher  and  to  pupil  in 
any  or  all  of  grammar  grades,  and  in  any  school,  however  poorly 
equipped.  It  is  designed  to  enable  a  teacher,  without  special  train- 
ing, to  handle  the  subject,  and  to  accomplish  good  work  without  a 
laboratory  or  special  equipment.'' 

"This  is  a  new  idea  in  book  making,  and,  as  it  seems  to  me,  an  excel- 
lent one.  I  have  examined  the  book  somewhat  hastily  and  found  it  very 
interesting  indeed."  ‚Äî  Louis  P.  Nash,  Snperiiitendent  of  Schools,  Holyoke, 
Mass. 


THE    MACMILLAN    COMPANY 

66  FIFTH   AVENUE,   NEW   YORK 


Mar>  Zl  10*1 


^v 


MAR  5     1901 


V 


H    96 


8  9/i 


^o.    '?.T*VA  <^   ‚ô¶^T7^*  jff-  X,.    .^ 


o"^"  ‚Ä¢IV--^^ 


4r         '<^ 


1 


‚Ä¢*     *^  ^q.*'., 


HECKMAN 

BINDERY  INC. 


n 


AUG  89 

N.  MANCHESTER, 
INDIANA  46962 


‚Ä¢-V'.**^ 


-d^.*-'         ,.  '.K^^><."-   A.  ¬´¬´ 


