THE  LIBRARY 

*        OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


' 


PREFACE 


TO  to  be  a  Good  Cook  means  the    knowledge    of  all 
Fruits,    Herbs,    Balms    and    Spices,    and    all    that  is 
healing  and  sweet  in    fields    and   groves,  and   savory 
in     meats,    means     carefulness,     inventiveness,     watchfulness, 
willingness  and  readiness  of  appliance.    It  meams  the  economy 
of   your  great    grand  mothers  and    the    science   of    modern 
chemists.     It  means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting.      It  means 
English  thoroughness,  French  art  and  Arabian  hospitality.     It 
means   in  fine,  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and  always  ladies 
(loaf-givers)  and  are  to  ^e^  that  everyone  has  something  nice  to  eat. 

RUSKIN. 


EUREKA  COOK  BOOK 


A  Collection  of  Tried  Recipes  for  Cooking 
Compiled  and  Published  by 


The  Ladies  League 


iof 


First  Congregational  CHurcH 
EureKa,  California 

19O7 


HUMBOLDT  TIMES 

PRINTERS,   PUBLISHERS 

AND  BINDERS 


PATRONIZE    OUR    ADVERTISERS 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

It  would  be  a  pleasure  to  thank  by  name  each  one 
who  has  assisted  with  this  little  book,  but  that  is  impossible. 
We  are  indebted  to  Housekeepers  outside  of  our  League 
for  many  of  our  best  recipes. 


PATRONIZE    OUR    ADVERTISERS 


PATRONIZE   OUR    ADVERISERS 


LIST  OF  ADVERTISERS 

It  is  with  many  thanks  and  an  added  kindly  feeling  for 
them  that  we  give  following  a  list  of  our  advertisers: 


A.   >I.  Nessler 
Vincent  &  Mndg-ett 
Portland  Flour  Mills 
Standard  Furniture  Co. 
Ft>rrill  &  Palmtag 
C.  R.  Fitzell 
Thompson  Photo  Co. 
Pedersoii-Ouist  &  Co. 
Buck's  Place 
Duck  Bros. 
Humboldt  Laundr}' 
Russ  Market 

0.  Nilsen  &  Co. 
Bank  of  Kureka 
American  Shoe  Store 
C.  V.  Jackson 

Ma}-  C.  Fitzgerald 

North  Mountain  Power  Co. 

Dr.  C.  L.  Bonstell 

Dr.  Leatherwood 

Vance  Redwood  Lumber  Co. 

Healjr  Bros. 

J.  Loewenthal 

Skinner-Duprey  Drug-  Co. 

Delta  Candy  Co. 

G.  R.  Georg-eson 

Frank  Xane 

Humboldt  Standard 

Humboldt  Times 

Sperry  Flour  Co. 

Geo.  Thompson* e  Grocery 

1.  Hodes 

Kastern  Shoe  Store 
Humboldt  County  Bank 


Heasman  &  Gillette  • 
R.  L.  Haughey 
Dr.  Chas.  Tonlinson 
C.  Armstrong-  Shoe  Co. 
Sweasey's  Farm 
Sarvis  &  Porter 

A.  Cottrell 
Hansen  &  Noe 
White  House 
Samoa  Mercantile  Co. 
Humboldt  Commercial  Co. 
Buhne's  Big-  Store 
McNamara's.  Inc. 

C.  O.  Lincoln  &  Co. 
Diamond  Fruit  Co. 
J.  A.  Meiser 
C.  H.  Wrig-ht 
Miss  L.   Bandy 
Well's  Drug-  Co. 
Log-  Cabin  Baker y 
Central  Creamery  Co. 
Dr.  Johnson 
Dr.  Gasser 
Kureka  News  Co. 
The  Bon  Boniere 
Thompson  Ferguson  Co.. 
J.  F.  Hink  &  Son 
First  National  Bank 

B.  B.  Case 

J.  F.  McGeorge 
I.  M.  Long 
Fen  Newton 
Gushaw  Millinery 
Daly  Bros. 
Guittard  Spice  Co. 


PATRONIZE    OUR   ADVERTISERS 


For  Rush  Orders  Call  at 


Nessler's 
Emporium 


Cor.  California  <SL  HawtHorne 

PKorve  132 

We  Carry  Everything  that  is  GOOD  TO  EAT  for 
Home  Use  or  for  Outings 


Dry  Goods  and  Shoes 

CjjOur  trade  in  these  lines  is  growing  rapidly. 
Our  Shoes  are  "THE  BEST  OF  THE 
GOOD  ONES"  for  young  and  old,  for 
Ladies,  Men  and  Children. 

^|Our  Goods  are  the  Best. 
{JOur  Prices  the  Lowest. 


Quality  Always  Considered 

Call  on  US  for  Everything  to  Eat  and  Wear, 
for  Everyday  Use  or  Special  Occasions,  either  Staple 
or  Fancy. 

We  will  save  you  time,  worry  and  money. 


CONTENTS 


SOUPS n 

MEATS   21 

FISH    43 

MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES. 47 

EGGS   51 

VEGETABLES    53 

SALADS    61 

SALAD   DRESSINGS    r>9 

BREADS 73 

PUDDINGS 89 

PUDDING  SAUCES   joi 

PIES   103 

DESSERTS   -. in 

ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS  '  !3 

CAKES  AND  GINGER  BREAD  T  J7 

COOKIES [37 

PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES    '47 

CANDIES   l63 

MISCELLANEOUS    -. l69 

BEVERAGES    .- 175 

INVALID  COOKERY    179 

THINGS  WORTH   KNOWING   ,  .  .l83 


Vincent-Mudg'ett 

Furniture  Co. 


Complete 

House 
Furnishers 


523  Fifth  Street,  EureKa,   Cal. 

Phone  Main   524  Next  door  to  Postoffice 


The  Great  Bread  Maker 

Olympic  Flour 

Made  of  EASTERN  OREGON  HARD  WHEAT 

it  produces   more    Bread    than    other    flours. 

Wherever  tried  it  gives  the  best  results 

as  to  the  Color  and  Flavor 

IT'S  THE  BEST  SELLER  IN  THE  WEST 


15he  Portland  Flour  Mill  Company 

AT  ALL  GROCERS 


SOUPS 

• 

Problems  of  state  perplex  the  great 

And  cares  upon  them  troop, 
Hut  the  question  that  perplexes  us 

And  worries  us  and  vexes  rs 
And  comes  each  day  to  make  us  gray 

Is,  what  shall  we  have  for  soup. 

(With   apologies.) 

SOUP  STOCK. 

Soup  stock  for  every  day  family  use  is  best  made  from  a 
large  shank  of  beef,  a  veal  shank  and  some  pieces  of  mutton; 
let  it  simmer,  but  not  boil,  for  several  hours.  Strain  and  set 
away  till  next  day,  when  grease  can  be  removed  from  the  top. 
If  wanted  clear,  add  white  of  i  egg  beaten  with  1-2  cup  of 
cold  water  before  straining.  H.  H. 

TOMATO    SOUP. 

Three  cups  soup  stock,  2  cups  of  milk  or  i  of  cream,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  to  which  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  pepper,  2 
teaspoons  sugar.  Last  thing  before  serving  add  pinch  soda  to 
tomatoes  and  the  2  cups  which  should  be  heated. 

Standard  Furniture  Co. 

THe    CHEAPEST    Up-to-Date 
Furniture  and  Carpet  House 

In    Humboldt  County 

Cor.  FiftH  and  E.  Sts.,  EtareKa,   Cal. 
PHONE  MAIN  589  G.  H.  CLOSE,   MANAGER 


"Man's  best  possession  is  a  sympathetic  wife." 
12  SOUPS 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  milk,  one  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  put  milk  on  in 
a  double  boiler  to  heat.  Strain  the  tomatoes  and  put  in  a 
separate  dish  to  boil,  when  it  boils,  add  a  pinch  of  soda, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  then 
add  to  the  hot  milk*  with  4  pounded  crackers  and  serve  im- 
mediately. Mrs.  Griffiths,  Oakland. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Place  in  a  double  boiler  as  much  milk  as  desired ;  put  on 
to  heat  a  large  bowl  of  tomatoes  and  a  little  finely  cut  onion, 
let  simmer  for  a  while  until  tomatoes  are  thoroughly  cooked, 
then  put  through  strainer,  and  add  to  the  milk,  add  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  good  sized  lump  of  butter ;  serve  with  wafers. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Ziegelman. 
POTATO  SOUP. 

Boil  4  large  potatoes,  i  small  onion  until  nearly  dry. 
Mash  and  add  2  quarts  milk,  i  teaspoon  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Strain  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  Ratzell. 

BEEF  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  either  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  and  rub  through  a 
sieve  that  will  keep  back  seeds,  there  should  be  a  pint  of  the 
pulp  and  2  potatoes  cut  fine  and  one  grated  onion  to  2  qts.  of 
good  beef  stock,  season  with  salt  and  red  pepper. — Mrs. 
Haughey. 

TOMATO  BISQUE   (SOUP). 

Bring  quart  of  milk  to  a  boil,  add  a  cup  of  stewed  to- 
matoes, a  tablespoon  at  a  time,  stirring  well  all  the  time.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve-  immediately. Ethel 

M.  Langford. 

Thompson'-s    Photo    Studio 

406  F  Street,  Eureka,  California 
Phone  Main  999 


SOUPS  13 


CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP. 

Cover  2  good  size  potatoes  and  1-2  onion  with  cold  water 
—let  come  to  boil  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Drain  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  when  tender  press  through  potato  masher. 
There  should  be  about  i  pint.  Add  2  cups  white  sauce  and 
milk,  remove  from  fire  -and  stir  in  the  well  beaten  yolk  of 
i  egg  and  1-4  cup  cream.  Salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  Robt.  Porter. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Two  good  sized  potatoes,  2  medium  sized  onions,  4  or 
5  sticks  celery,  chop  all  together,  and  cook  in  a  little  water 
until  done,  and  water  cooks  away,  add  milk  and  cook  a  little 
more,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter. 

ONION  SOUP. 

(  )ne  quart  milk,  6  large  onions,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  3  table- 
spoons butter,  i'  of  flour,  i  cup  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  the  butter  in  frying  pan,  cut  onions  in  thin,  slices  and 
drop  into  butter.  Stir  until  they  begin  to  cook,  then  cover 
tin  lit  and  set  back  where  they  will  simmer  for  half  an  hour. 
Add  the  dry  flour  to  the  onion,  stir  for  three  minutes,  then 
turn  the  mixture  into  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  15  minutes. 
Rub  the  soup  through  a  strainer,  return  to  the  fire  and  season, 
beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well,  add  the  cream  and  stir  it  into 
the  soup.  Cook  three  minutes  stirring  constantly.  The  cream 
may  be  omitted.  Mrs.  H.  Stern,  S.  F. 

SOUP. 

Slice  i  large  onion  in  pan  with  melted  butter  and  let  cook 
r-lowly  until  brown,  stii  into  this  one  large  mashed  potato  and 
i  tablespoon  of  flour  add  i  qt.  of  milk  and  let  cook  until 
ready  to  serve,  then  put  in  a  quart  of  stock.  Serve  at  once. 

Ida  E.  Davis. 

CREAM  LIMA  BEAN  SOUP. 

Soak  T  cup  dried  Lima  beans  in  cold  water  over  night. 
Drain  and  cook  about  2  hours  in  fresh  water.  Add  2  sliced 
onions  and  cook  until  tender.  Put  through  a  potato  press  with 
water  in  which  beans  were  cooked;. to  each  cupful  add  i  cup 
of  white  sauce  and  milk  or  white  stock.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Robert  Porter. 


"In  the  husband  wisdom,  in  the  nrife 
14  SOUPS 


CREAM  PEA  SOUP. 

Cool  ;  pint  oi  peas  in  water  to  cover  until  tender  (canned 
peas  iray  be  used)  ;  put  through  a  potato  press  with  water 
in  which  they  were  cooked.  A  sbce  of  onion  may  be  cooked 
with  them.  Make  a  sauce  of  1-3  cup  each  butter  and  flour 
and  i  qt.  milk,  simmer  10  minutes  and  add  the  pea  pulp,  I  1-2 
teaspoons  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  If  desired  stir  in  at  the 
last  voiles  of  £  eggs  beaten  with  1-2  cup  cream  or  2  table- 
spoonfe  creamed  butter.  -  Mrs.  Robert  Porter. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

Cook  i  cup  of  split  peas  all  to  a  mash  and  press  through 
a  sieve,  add  milk,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  boil  up  once  and 
pour  over  toasted  squares  of  bread. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Haughey,    Portland. 
CORN  SOUP. 

Three  medium  sized  ears  of  green  corn,  split  grains 
lengthwise  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  scrape  out  the  pulp  with 
a  dull  knife,  so  as  not  to  get  the  skins  of  the  kernels,  add  I 
pint  rich  milk  or  cream,  and  2  pints  of  boiling  water,  bring  it 
to  a  boil  and  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Johnson,  Grant's  Pass,  Ore. 


Ferrill  and  Palmtag 

Real  Estate 
and  Insurance 

313  G  Street,  Eureka,  California 


SOUPS  13 


CELERY  SOUP. 

Wash  one  head  of  celery  and  cut  in  pieces,  add  one 
pint  of  water  and  cook  until  soft.  Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and 
one  tablespoon  of  chopped  onions  together ;  add  this  to  the 
celery  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
add  one  tablespoon  flour  and  stir  into  the  hot  soup,  add  also 
a  teaspoon fuJ  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  boil  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Lord. 

CELERY  SOUP. 

(  )r.e  big  cup  full  celery  that  has  been  washed  and  cut 
up;  i  potato,  i  onion,  cook  all  together  until  '^nder,  then  run 
through  a  sieve.  Add  milk-,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour, 
and  season  to  taste.  Cooked  rice  may  be  used  to  thicken  the 
soup.  Pearl  Clark. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

Three  pounds  of  bone  and  meat,  cover  with  cold  water, 
add  1-2  cup  rice,  pepper  and  salt,  let  simmer  all  day  on  back 
oi:  range,  remove  meat,  strain  and  let  cool  all  night.  In  the 
morning  remove  grease  and  the  broth  is  ready.  Excellent  in 
sickness.  Mrs.  Monroe. 

CREAM  MUTTON  SOUP. 

After  boiling  a  piece  of  mutton  turn  off  the  broth ;  when 
cold  skim  off  the  fat,  return  to  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  one  well  beaten  egg,  and  one  cup 
of  milk ;  mix  slowly  with  one  cup  of  boiling  soup,  turn  this 
into  the  soup,  season  and  set  the  kettle  where  it  will  simmer, 
but  not  boil,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  Condo. 

SOUP  BOUQUET. 

Take  a  carrot,  onion,  parsley,  celery  and  turnip  and  tie  in 
a  thin  piece  of  cloth,  cook  in  soup  till  soup  is  sufficiently  seas- 
oned and  all  can  be  taken  out  without  having  to  strain  the 
soup.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Monroe. 


BrOS       218-220-224  Second  Street 

Furniture,        Carpets,        Rugs 


"Educate  men   without  religion  and  you   make    them    hut 
clever  devils. " 

16  SOUPS 


NOODLE  SOUP. 

Cook  15  cents  worth  of  soup  meat  2  hours,  add  1-2  can 
tomatoes,  cook  1-2  hour,  strain  or  not  to  suit  taste,  add 
noodles.  Mrs.  G.  A.  Taylor. 

NOODLE  SOUP. 

Break  I  large  egg  and  beat  lightly,  add  1-2  cup  flour, 
beat  well,  add  1-4  teaspoon  salt  and  knead  until  smooth.  Roll 
into  very  thin  sheets  and  dry  on  the  board.  Roll  up  the  sheet 
and  cut  into  shreds.  Dry  one  hour,  boil  in  salt  water  ten 
minutes.  Soup  :  Boil  3  pints  of  milk,  one  sliced  onion  and 
a  bit  of  mace,  melt  2  tablespoons  butter  and  3  tablespoons 
flour,  stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  celery,  beat  2  eggs  light  and  stir  into  soup  just  before 
serving.  "Fort  Atkinson  Cook  Book." 

OYSTER  CHOWDER. 

i  quart  oysters,  canned  or  raw,  1-2  lb.  salt  pork;  4  large 
potatoes  ;  I  onion  ;  butter  size  egg. 

Cut  the  pork  in  cubes  and  fry  well,  then  add  other  .in- 
gredients, except  oysters,  cover  with  milk  and  oyster  liquor 
Cook  until  potatoes  are  done,  thicken  with  3  rolled  crackers, 
add  oysters,  heat  and  serve.  Mrs.  R.  D.  Porter. 

To  the  Housewives  of  Eureka: 

We  arc  going  to  MAKE  A  STUDY  of  this  Cook  Book. 

Our  shelves  will  be  found  at  all  times  stocked  with 
every  article   required  in   the   preparation   of    any 
recipe  given  in  this  book. 
Yours  for  HIGH  GRADE  GROCERIES 


Pederson,  Quist  &  Co.  ™«™±^=  sts 


Gentlemen's  Wear  of  All  Kinds.    None  but  the  Best  Kept  in  Stock. 

FINE  NECKWEAR  A  SPECIALTY 
Agent  for  the  Largest  Knitting  Establishment  on  the  Coast. 

The  Up>to=Date 
Haberdashery 

F.  J.  BUCHANAN,  532  Second  Street,  Eureka,  Cal. 


SOUPS  17 


OYSTER  CHOWDER. 

i  quart  oysters,  fresh  oysters  preferred ;  4  large  potatoes ; 
i  1-2  pints  milk;  i  tablespoon  flour;  I  tablespoon  butter;  I 
large  tablespoon  grated  onion.  Drain  tjhe  liquor  from  the 
oysters  and  cook  with  it  the  onion  and  sliced  potato.  Rub 
together  the  butter  and  flour  and  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk, 
also  the  oysters,  salt  and  pepper.  As  soon  as  the  oysters 
are  plump,  add  and  turn  over  toasted  squares  of  bread  or 
toasted  oyster  crackers.  H.  H. 

NANTUCKET  CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Twenty  good  sized  clams ;  separate  neck  from  bodies  and 
chop  the  necks,  or  2  cans  clams;  3-4  cup  clam  water;  3-4  Ib. 
fat  salt  pork ;  i  quart  milk.  Cut  the  salt  pork,  using  no  lean, 
into  tiny  cubes,  fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  Skim  out  the  scraps, 
put  them  into  large  kettle  with  a  quart  or  more  of  boiling 
water  and  the  clam  water.  Fry  onions  in  the  pork  drippings 
and  pour  into  the  kettle.  Add  potatoes  and  chopped  necks 
of  clams,  boil  for  15  minutes.  Add  bodies  of  clams  and 
about  3  quarts  of  water  and  boil  about  20  minutes.  Canned 
clams  need  less  cooking.  Add  milk,  thicken  with  flour,  about 
a  cupful  made  smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Add  more  salt  if  de- 
sired. The  recipe  should  make  at  least  5  quarts.  Warming 
over  improves  it.  Fish  may  be  substituted. 

Mrs.  W.  CoggeshalL 

CLAM  BISQUE. 

Heat  to  boiling  i  qt.  of  milk,  add  2  tablespoons  butter, 
and  2  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  rubbed  to  a  cream.  When  it 
thickens,  add  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  3  cups  of  clams  chop- 
ped fine.  Let  boil  up  once  and  serve  with  crackers. 

-    Mrs.  R.  L.  H. 


Humboldt  Laundry,  Inc. 

Gentlemen's  Work  a  Specialty 

TELEPHONE,  MAIN  124,         202-204  SIXTH  STREET 


MEATS 

'  'Tis  not  the  food,  but  the  content 

That  makes  the  table's  merriment. 
Where  trouble  serves  the  board,  we  eat 

The  platter  there  as  soon  as  meat 
A  little  pipkin  with  a    bit 

Of  mutton  or  of  veal  on  it 
Let  on  my  table,  trouble  free 

More  than  a  feast  contented  me."  —  Herrick. 

TO  BROIL  IN  THE  OVEN. 

Have  a  quick  fire,  let  your  baking  pan,  in  which  the 
broiler  stands,  be  well  raised  off  the  bottom  of  the  oven,  on 
the  shelf  would  be  best.  After  the  meat,  steak,  chops  or  what 
you  please,  has  been  in  the  oven  about  3  minutes,  turn  it,  dot 
it  with  bits  of  butter  and  cook  for  about  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Henry  Stern,  San  Francisco. 

.SMOTHERED  ROUND  STEAK. 

Heat  in  a  skillet  some  lard,  then  add  butter  size  of  a  mck- 
ory  nut.  Roll  the  pieces  of  steak  in  flour  that  has  been  seas- 
oned with  salt  and  pepper,  and  blown  quickly  on  both  sides. 
Then  pour  over  it  a  little  water  and  allow  it  to  simmer  gently 
for  half  an  hour  or  until  tender.  Miss  May  Burton. 


Finest  in  the 
Land 


Grown  on  Our  Own   Ranges 
On  Bear  Creek 

TRY   SOME   FROM 

RUSS  MARKET 


"There  are  none  poor,  but  such  as  God  disowns." 
22  MEATS 

A  FLANK  STEAK. 

Trim  a  steak  and  score  with  a  knife,  salt  and  pepper 
likely  on  each  side,  cook  until  brown  in  beef  drippings  and 
serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  W.  F.  Harris. 

HAMBURGER. 

Rim  15  cents  worth  of  round  steak  through  a  meat 
grinder,  also  10  cents  worth  of  pork  sausage,  mix  together, 
add  two  or  three  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg.  A 
thick  slice  of  bread  soaked  in  water  mixed  with  the  meat  and. 
make  all  into  flat  balls,  fry  quickly  in  a  hot  pan  in  some  foam- 
ing butter.  Slice  over  a  little  onion,  if  liked. 

Mrs.  G.  H.  Schultz. 


Take  a  good  sized  round  steak,  slash  until  tender.  Make 
a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs  well  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  sage,  onion  and  parsley.  Spread  it  over  the  steak, 
roll  up  and  tie  firmly.  Brown  3  tablespoons  of  flour  in  a  pan, 
work  in  a  good  piece  of  butter,  and  add  some  water.  Put  in 
the  steak  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  it  frequently. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Three  Ibs.  Hamburg  steak,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1-2  cup 
butter  or  cream,  I  teaspoon  salt,  1-4  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  all 
well  together,  pack  in  pan  and  bake  I  hour. 

Mrs.  Robert  Porter. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Grind  2  Ibs.  round  steak,  11-2  cups  bread  crumbs,  2 
eggs,  21-2  cups  milk,  1-3  cup  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Mix  all  well  together  with  the  hands,  shape  into  loaf  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Brown  on  top  before  taking  from  oven. 

Mrs.  Ratzell. 

For  Drug's  Medicines  and  a  Nice  Assortment 
of  Drug-g-ists  Sundries 

TRY  FITZELL'S 

Everything-  is  Fresh  and  Up-to-Date.     Prices  Reasonable 

CORNER  THIRD  AND  F  STS.  EUREKA,  CAL. 


MEATS  23 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Chop  or  put  through  a  meat  grinder  3  Ibs,  round  steak, 
1-2  Ib.  salt  pork,  enough  crackers  to  make  a  cup  full,  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  1-2  cup  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all  thor- 
oughly together,  shape  into  a  loaf  and  bake  3-4  of  an  hour 
with  small  pieces  of  pork  or  bits  of  butter  on  top. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  McLellan. 

BUBBLING  STEAK. 

Pound  well  and  cut  into  pieces  as  large  as  the  hand  a  me- 
dium sized  round  steak,  then  cut  very  thin  strips  of  salt  pork, 
roll  them  up  in  pieces  of  steak,  and  tie  at  either  end.  Sear 
them  in  a  buttered  skillet  until  well  brown,  and  add  enough 
water  to  almost  cover.  Slice  a  small  onion  over  the  top,  dust 
with  cayenne  and  black  pepper,  and  simmer  about  4  hours, 
adding,  water  as  needed.  Thicken  the  gravy,  add  salt  and 
serve.  Mrs.  R.  D.  Porter. 

POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 

This  mode  of  cooking  will  make  the  toughest  beef 
tender.  Get  about  5  Ibs.  of  solid  meat  from  the  round  of 
beef,  and  put  it  on  to  cook  over  a  hot  fire  in  boiling  water. 
The  kettle  should  be  one  that  will  set  in  the  oven.  Boil 
slowly  for  three  hours,  serson  well,  remove  the  meat  and 
thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  made  smooth  in  water.  Put  the 
meat  back  in  the  kettle,  set  it  into  the  oven,  cover  closely  and 
cook  until  needed  or  about  3  hours. 

Mrs.  Dora  Betterley. 

CHILI     CON     CARNE. 

This  recipe  came  from  Old  Mexico.  Cut  tender  beef  or 
chicken  into  squares  and  brown  in  lard  .adding  salt  and  black 
pepper  to  taste,  i  finely  minced  onion,  i  clove  of  garlic,  and  a 
few  comina  seed  that  have  been  pounded  to  a  paste.  Add 
water  and  when  about  done,  the  pulp  of  5  Chili  peppers,  stew 
for  a  few  minutes  longer,  \vhen  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Jersey 


''Better  pay  the  cook  than  the  doctor. 
24  MEATS 


Cut  suet  into  small  pLces  ancl  fry  out  in  a  heavy  kettle. 
Slice  in  an  onion  and  fry  until  brown.  Put  in  the  meat, 
which  should  be  a  piece  of  the  rump  or  round,  season  with 
salt  or  pepper  and  brown  nicely  on  both  sides.  Add  a  little 
water  and  let  cook  slowly  on  top  of  a  stove  for  about  three 
hours.  Mrs  .O.  W.  L. 

SPICED  TONGUE. 

Cook  beef  tongue  until  almost  tender,  then  add  3  table- 
spoons of  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  vinegar,  i  teaspoon  each  of 
cloves  and  pepper  and  let  simmer  for  1-2  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Lamb. 

PRESSED    BEEF. 

Cut  up  cheap  beef  and  cook  in  just  enough  water  to  cover 
it,  keeping  the  kettle  closely  covered  to  retain  all  the,  steam 
and  juices  of  meat.  Cook  slowly  several  hours  until  tender, 
and  the  liquor  is  reduced  to  i  cupful  for  3  1-2  or  4  Ibs.  of 
meat.  Take  the  meat  off,  remove  the  bone  and  gristly  parts, 
cut  up  fine  and  season  to  taste.  Keep  the  liquor  boiling  and 
•for  each  4  Ibs.  of  meat  add  1-2  box  of  gelatine,  then  the  chop- 
ped meat,  seasoning  it  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  it 
into  a  deep  square  pan  and  place  a  white  board  on  it  with  a 
weight:  If  there  are  any  cold  scraps  of  beef  left  over,  boil 
them  with  a  veal  shank,  and  acid  some  gelatine. 

BOILED  TONGUE. 

Soak  a  fresh  tongue  over  night  in  water  to  which  has  been 
added  some  salt  and  some  vinegar.  In  the  morning  put  the 
tongue  on  to  cook  in  some  cold  water,  add  i  teaspoon  mustard, 
2  teaspoons  pepper,  2  teaspoons  nutmeg,  16  cloves  and  8  bay 
leaves,  boil  slowly  for  4  hours  and  skim  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Ansel  Hannah. 


If  you1  want  g-oocl  COFFEE  y-o  to 

O.  NILSON  &  CO. 

They  have  the  best  Fifth  St.,  Cor.  of  A 


MEATS  25 


BRAISED  BEEF. 

Brown  a  piece  of  fresh  beef  of  a  suitable  size  for  a  family 
•of  6  in  1-2  cup  of  hot  beef  drippings.  Add  enough  water  to 
nearly  cover  it,  2  carrots,  2  onions,  2  turnips,  and  cook  3 
liours  or  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Take  the  meat  out,  strain 
the  drippings,  put  the  vegetables  through  a  potato  press  and 
if  the  sauce  needs  more  thickening  than  the  mashed  veget- 
ables, add  a  little  flour  made  smooth  in  cold  .water.  Salt  and 
-pepper  should  be  added  when  the  meat  is  about  2-3  done. 

Grants  Pass,  Oregon. 

ITALIAN  STEW. 

Cut  up  3  Ibs.  of  lean  beef  and  6  onions  and  cook  together 
for  2  hours.  Then  add  i  cup  of  mild  vinegar,  i  level  tea- 
•spoon  each  of  qinnamon,  allspice,  cloves  and  comina  seed,  6 
green  peppers,  chopped  fine,  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  water 
as  needed,  cook  until  tender  and  thicken  with  flour.  This  is 
very  nice",  but  might  be  liked  better  by  Americans  if  the  comina 
•seeds  were  not  used.  Mrs.  Jersey. 

SPANISH  STEW. 

3  Ibs |  of  beef  ribs  cooked  in  2  qts.  of  water  for  2  hours, 

•then  add  i  qt.  tomatoes,  3  chopped  onions,  6  cloves,  a  pinch 

of  sage,  little  of  the  peel  of  orange  grated,    2  bay  leaves,  and 

i  large  chopped  Chili  pepper.    Cook  until  tender,  thicken  with 

'flour    made  smooth  in  cold  water.  Mrs.  Jersey. 

FRIED  BRAINS. 

Wash  and  remove  carefully  the  outside  membrane  and  put 
into  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes;  the  water  should  contain 
ra  few  drops  of  vinegar.  Drain,  slice,  dip  in  flour  and  fry. 

SCRAMBLED  BRAINS. 

Brains  can  be  cooked  in  this  way  when    broken  by  careless 

handling.       Put  into  salted  water  for  i  hour,  clean  carefully 

and  wash  in  clear  water.       Chop  up  and  mix  with     6  well 

beaten  eggs.    Scramble  in  hot  drippings,  season  with  salt  and 

*  cayenne  pepper  and  serve  with  toast. 


"Maids  must  be  wives  and  mothers  to  fulfill  the  entire  und 
holiest  end  of  woman's  being.  " 

26  MEATS 


ROAST  BEEF. 

Buy  the  first,  second  or  third  ribs  of  beef  and  have  the 
ribs  cut  up  and  put  aside  for  stewing  or  braising,  but  leave 
the  other  bones  in  the  roast  except  at  the  end  which  joins  the 
back  bone.  Sear  the  cut  bides  of  the  roast  in  some  very  hot 
drippings  to  keep  in  the  juices,  then  lay  the  roast  on  a  meat 
rack  placed  in  a  dripping  pan.  Dredge  over  with  flour,  salt 
and  pepper  and  place  a  piece  of  suet  on  top.  Have  the  oven 
very  hot  for  the  first  15  minutes,  then  gradually  lessen  the 
heat,  and  cook  for  about  I  1-4  hours.  This  length  of  time 
should  be  sufficient  for  a  roast  that  would  serve  a  family  of 
8.  Keep  only  enough  water  in  the  pan  to  just  cover  the 
bottom,  adding  when  needed  boiling  water.  Baste  fre- 
quently. Mrs.  Haughey. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING  FOR  ROAST  BEEF. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  1-2  teaspoon  salt,  3  well  beaten  eggs,  2 
cups  milk.  Beat  until  smooth  and  bake  1-2  hour  In  a  pan 
containing  some  of  the  drippings  from  the  roast  or  in  the 
same  pan  with  the  roast.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve  on  the 
platter  with  the  roast.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Monroe. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  add  2  cups  milk,  1-2  teaspoon 
salt,  and  gradually  i  cup  of  flour.  Use  no  baking,  powder 
or  soda.  Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans  3-4  of  an  hour  and 
serve  with  the  roast.  The  batter  should  be  very  thin. 

Mrs.  J.  Falk. 


The  Bank  of  Eureka 

Capital  Stock  Subscribed,     $200,000 
Paid  in  Capital.  ..  100,000 

Surplus  and   Profits,  184,000 

General  Banking  and  Exchange  Business 

• 

Corner  E  and  Third  Sts.,  Eureka,  Cal 


MEATS  27 

VEAL  CUTLET. 

Take  a  cutlet  and  cut  it  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  an 
oyster,  season  each  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  dip  in  egg 
and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Put  into  the  refrigerator  5  or  6 
hours  before  you  are  ready  to  fry  them.  Mrs.  B.  F.  Porter. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Chop  3  Ibs.  of  raw  veal,  add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  3  table- 
spoons of  cream  or  milk,  4  powdered  crackers,  salt,  I  tea- 
spoon black  pepper  and  i  large  tablespoon  sage.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, form  into  a  loaf,  and  bake  21-2  hours,  basting  fre- 
quently with  butter  and  water.  Serve  cold  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Dunnigan. 
VEAL    LOAF. 

Three  Ibs.  uncooked  veal,  1-2  Ib.  salt  pork,  i  cup  of  rolled 
crackers/2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1-2  teaspoon 
salt,  i  teaspoon  pepper.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine  or  run 
through  a  grinder,  mix  all  thoroughly  with  the  hands  into  a 
loaf,  and  bake  2  hours,  basting  often.  Serve  either  hot  or 
cold.  Mrs.  Mary  McKay. 

SPICED  VEAL. 

Use  a  meat  grinder  to  chop  3  Ibs.  of  veal,  6  crackers,  and 
i  slice  of  very  fat  salt  pork.  Then  mix  well  with  3  beaten 
eggs'  T"2  CUP  tomato  catsup,  juice  and  grated  nr.d  of  I 
lemon  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well,  make  into  a 
loaf  and  bake  slowly. 

VEAL  POT  PIE. 

Put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water  2  Ibs.  veal,  a  breast  piece  is 
best,  and  1-2  cup  of  diced  salt  pork.  Later  add  four  good 
sized  potatoes,  little  pieces  of  carrot,  turnip  and  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley,  i  bay  leaf,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Dump- 
lings to  be  cooked  in  the  stew  for  5  or  10  minutes :  Two  cups 
of  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  table- 
spoon butter,  2-3  cup  milk  and  2  well  beaten  eggs. 

Mrs.     S.     F.  Pine. 


"Much     which    we    think    essen  ial    is    merely    a    matter 
of  habit." 

28  MEATS 


DANGEROUS  GASES  IN  MEAT  PIES. 

If  a  meat  pie  is  cut  and  eaten  hot  there  is  no  danger  of 
its  Jbeing  poisonous,  but  if  set  away  to  cool,  be  sure  that  there 
is  an  opening  through  the  crust  down  to  the  meat.  Sometimes 
the  rising  of  the  crust,  while  baking,  causes  the  opening  to 
-close,  and  this  should  be  guarded  against. 

MEAT  PIE. 

Cut  a  round  steak  in  small  pieces  and  boil  until  tender. 
When  almost,  done,  slice  one  onion  and  6  potatoes,  and  boil 
with  the  meat,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sage,  adding  a 
lump  of  butter  if  not  rich  enough.  When  the  potatoes  are 
done,  thicken  with  some  flour  made  smooth  in  water.  Line 
.a  baking  dish  with  crust,  put  in  the  meat  and  potatoes,  cover 
with  a  crust  and  bake  to  a  nice  brq»\vn.  The  onion  may  be 
omitted.  Mrs.  J.  Falk. 

MINCED  LIVER. 

Cut  liver  in  small  cubes  and  fry  with  salt  pork,  nearly 
cover  with  water,  add  pepper,  lemon  juice,  thicken  the 
gravy  with  bread  crumbs.  Mrs.  D.  McAdams. 

TRIPE. 

Tripe  from  the  butcher's  shop  is  ready  to  use,  but  one 
in  the  country  might  have  to  clean  it.  W^ash  thoroughly  and 
soak  two  hours  or  more  until  the  dark  comes  off  readily, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  and  lay  in  salt  water  a  day,  changing 
often.  The  next  day,  cut  in  strips,  whiten  by  laying  in 
buttermilk  for  a  few  hours.  Boil  in  salted  water  until 
tender. 

The  best  recipe  for  foot  comfort  is  a  pair  of 

SOROSLS  SHOES 

They  fit  the  feet,  are  comfortable  and  durable.  You  may  be 
sure  you  are  getting-  the  best  shoe,  for  the  price  you  pay,  when 
3'ou  bu}*  a  Sorosis  Shoe. 

Children's,  $2.50,  $3  Ladies'  $3.50,  $4,  $5 

AMERICAN  SHOE  STORE 

504  Third  St.,  Eureka,  Cal. 


MEATS 

TRIPE  SPANISH. 

i  Ib.  well  cooked  tripe,  sliced  in  small  pieces.  Let  simmer 
in  i  1-2  pints  of  milk.  Brown  one  large  onion  in  butter, 
add  onion  to  tripe,  pepper  and  salt,  thicken  with  a  little  flour, 
add  1-2  can  of  tomatoes.  Mrs.  S.  A.  Wandesforde. 

ROAST  SHOULDER  OF  LAMB. 

Have  a  shoulder  of  lamb  or  veal  boned  and  fill  the  pocket 
with  a  dressing  made  from  4  oz.  bread  crumbs,  2  ozs.  of  the 
raw  meat,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter;  i  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  i  tablespoon  grated  onion ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Roast  in  a  covered  pan.  Make  a  sauce  of  2  tablespoons 
softened  butter,  tablespoon  each  chopped  parsley,  lemon  juice,, 
shallots  or  onion  and  beef  extract.  Draw  the  meat  from  the 
oven,  spread  with  sauce,  return  it  to  oven  until  melted  and 
serve  hot.  Oakland. 

STEAMED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Put  a  leg  of  mutton  in  a  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  and  keep  it  closely  covered  until  tender,  which  will  be 
about  4  hours.  The  length  of  time  will  depend  on  the  age 
of  the  meat.  Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Put  the  leg  on  to  cook  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it 
well,  to  which  has  been  added  1-2  cup  good  cider,  vinegar  and 
teaspoon  salt.  Cook  about  4  hours,  or  until  very  tender. 
Serve  with  a  sauce  made  from  the  liquor.  Thicken  it  with 
some  flour  made  smooth  in  cold  water,  strain  and  then  add  2" 
tablespoons  butter,  a  little  more  salt,  small  quantity  of  cayenne 
pepper,  and  i  cup  of  small  green  nasturtium  seed  chopped. 
If  fresh  ones  are  not  obtainable,  pickled  will  do. 

Mrs.  Haughey. 

PORK  CHOPS. 

Fry  rib  pork  chops  slowly  until  done  and  put  on  to  a  hot 
platter.  Brown  tweet  potatoes  that  have  been  boiled  and 
peeled  in  the  fryings,  dish  up  the  sweet  potatoes  around  the 
chops.  Serve  with  sour  apple  sauce  and  jelly  cake. 


•"A  cheerful  look  makes  every  dish  a  feast." 
30  MEATS 

SPANISH  CHICKEN  PIE. 

Cut  up  and  stew  i  chicken  until  tender.  Prepare  from 
dried  Chili  peppers  1-2  tea  cup  of  pulp,  which  is  done  by  first 
removing  the  seeds  and  grains  (the  hot  part)  and  boiling 
until  soft,  then  scrape  out  the  insfde  with  a  knife.  Add  this 
pepper  pulp  to  the  chicken,  also  18  pitted  olives,  12  raisins, 
i  tablespoon  grated  onion,  or  if  preferred  a  little  garlic.  Salt 
to  taste  and  thicken  with  flour  made  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Fifteen  minutes  before  time  to  serve,  turn  into  a 
baking  dish,  large  enough  so  that  it  will  be  about  2-3  full,  and 
cover  closely  to  form  a  crust  with  biscuits  made  by  the 
following  rule :  One  quart  flour,  3  heaped  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  i  level  teaspoon  salt,  sifted  well  together  and  made 
into  a  soft  dough  with  milk.  Do  not  knead  or  handle  any 
more  than  necessary,  turn  on  a  well  floured  board,  press  out 
an  inch  thick,  cut  into  biscuits,  dip  each  one  into  melted 
butter  and  lay  over  the  chicken  closely,  except,  in  one  space 
in  the  middle.  The  chicken  should  be  boiling  hot,  or  the 
underside  of  the  crust  will  be  soggy.  Bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven.  Any  meat  pie  is  nice  covered  in  this  w^y. 

Mrs.  Haughey. 
SAUSAGE  ROLLS. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  baking  powder  biscuits,  roll  and 
cut  into  pieces  4  in.  wide  and  twice  as  long.  Take  fine  sausage, 
put  2  or  more  pieces  in  the  dough,  roll  up,  press  the  ends  to- 
gether, and  bake  1-2  hour.  Very  nice  for  picnics. 

Mrs.  Norton  Pine. 


MEATS  31 


SWEET  BREADS. 

The  sweet  bread  is  the  Thymus  gland  found  in  the  neck 
of  the  veal.  It  should  be  soaked  i  or  2  hours  in  cold 
water,  parboiled  20  minutes,  then  plunged  into  cold  water  to 
harden.  Take  out  and  drain  and  remove  the  pipes  and 
membrane.  They  may  then  be  cut  into  thin  slices,  fried, 
stewed  or  served  with  any  meat  sauce  one  likes.  Use  i  can 
mushrooms  and  one  pair  of  sweet  breads  diced,  dredge  with  a 
little  flour  and  brown  quickly  in  hot  butter,  seasoning  with 
.salt  and  pepper.  Sweet  breads  are  also  very  good  served 
with  Spanish  meat  sauce. 

MOCK  SWEET  BREADS. 

Housekeepers  who  like  to  try  new  dishes  may  be  glad  of 
the  following  recipe.  Chop  2  Ibs.  of  veal  and  1-4  lb.  of  veal 
.suet  very  fine,  soak  a  good  sized  roll  or  piece  of  bread  in  water 
and  beat  up  lightly.  Then  mix  this  with  the  veal,  add  suet, 
the  grated  rind  of  i  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  very  little 
nutmeg,  and  2  eggs,  shape  like  sweet  breads,  dip  in  beaten 
eggs  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  Hatch. 

TO  BONE  AND  BOIL  A  HAM. 

First  take  out  the  small  bone  that  runs  across  the  large 
end  of  the  ham.  Laying  the  ham  skin  side  down  on  the  table, 
split  it  lengthwise  on  the  meat  side  following  the  bone,  and 
trim  the  bone  out  carefully.  One  should  have  a  very  thin, 
sharp  knife.  Make  notches  in  the  rind  to  hold  the  cord,  and 
tie  it  up  very  lightly  so  that  the  slices  will  look  well.  Be  sure 
that  the  cord  is  stout  enough  to  hold  it.  Put  it  on  to  cook  in 
plenty  of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly.  It  usually  takes  31-2 
or  4  hours  for  a  12  lb.  ham.  Peel  the  rind  off  when  cold. 
Wiith  a  little  practice  one  can  bone  a  ham  easily  and  with  no 
waste,-  and  the  slices  have  a  much  better  appearance. 

Mrs.  A.  Bacon. 

PICKLED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Scald  and  scrape  the  feet  until  perfectly  clean  and  cook 
until  tender  in  salted  water.  Take  out  of  the  liquor  and  when 
cold  put  in  an  earthen  crock.  Add  some  whole  pepper 
-corns,  and  cover  with  vinegar.  Lay  a  heavy  plate  on  to  keep 
the  feet  under  the  vinegar.  Mrs.  A.  Bacon. 


"Economy  of  food  is  the  wealth  of  nations." 
32  MEATS 

BACON  AND  APPLES. 

Take  very  tart  apples  and  without  peeling  cut  into  slices 
1-2  inch  thick  and  remove  the  cores.  Fry  thin  slices  until 
crisp,  remove  the  meat  and  fry  the  apples  in  part  of  thi  bacon 
fryings,  adding  sugar  to  taste. 

FRIED  BACON  OR  SALT  PORK. 

This  is  a  delicious  way  to  cook  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Soak 
the  slices  in  milk  20  minutes  or  1-2  hour.  Have  the  pan 
moderately  hot  and  fry  a  slice  that  has  not  been  in  the  milk 
to  grease  the  pan,  then  roll  the  other  pieces  in  flour  and  fry 
to  a  delicate  brown,  using  the  milk  to  make  a  gravy. 

Mrs.  Monroe. 

KIDNEY  STEW. 

Two  beef  kidneys,  2  bay  leaves,  I  cup  stewed  tomatoes,  I 
large  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Clean  and  slice  the  kidneys,  boil 
about  45  minutes  with  the  bay  leaves,  then  add  the  potatoes 
and  onions  and  cook  about  15  minutes.  Thicken  gravy  with 
flour  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Ethel  Langford. 

KIDNEYS  AND  ONIONS. 

Two  beef  kidneys,  5  large  onions,  salt  and  pepper.  Clean 
the  kidneys,  slice  and  fry  brown  on  each  side,  then  add 
sliced  onions,  and  cook  for  about  'twenty  minutes  longer. 
When  done,  mix  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  dry  flour  into  the 
onions  and  kidney,  and  when  browned  add  enough  water  to 
make  a  gravy.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  George  Langford. 

M.  F.  Gillette  Main  547  Wm.  Heasman 

Ileasman  &,  Gillette 

Booksellers 

PIANOS  Stationers  ORGANS 

News  Dealers 

Music,   Musical  Instruments,  Toys,  Etc. 
Pianos  and  Organs  Tuned  and  Repaired. 

4i5  F  St.,  Eureka,  Cal. 


MEATS 

FRIED  CHICKEN  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Dress  and  cut  up  a  young  chicken  at  the  joints  so  as  to 
have  it  ready  to  serve.  Dredge  it  with  flour,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  at?d  fry  until  done  and  nicely  browned  in 
good  drippings  or  butter.  Make  a  cream  sauce  with  one 
heaped  tablespoon  flour  mixed  in'i  tablespoon  hot  water,  add 
gradually  I  cup  hot  cream  or  good  milk,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  or  lemon  juice.  Plump  I  pint,  of  oysters  in  I  table- 
spoon butter,  lay  them  upon  the  chicken,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  whole.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Balcom. 

BOILED  CHICKEN. 

Stuff  with  rich  bread  dressing,  sew  up  in  a  thin  cloth, 
place  in  salted  boiling  water,  in  which  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar 
has  been  placed.  Boil  until  tender,  remove  some  of  the  water 
and  thicken  for  gravy.  Best  for  an  old  fowl. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Pentland. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Stuff  or  not  as  preferred,  baste  a  few  minutes  at  first  with 
hot  water  to  which  has  been  added  an  onion  and  salt.  Then 
baste  with  butter  and  a  little  flour.  Allow  for  roasting  about 
1-2  hour  for  domestic,  or  from  25  to  30  minutes  for  wild 
ducks.  Serve  hot  with  sauce  made  with  the  giblets  and 
currant  jelly.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

Miss  M.  A.  Duggan. 

STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY. 

Soak  i  loaf  of  very  dry  bread  in  cold  water  and  squeeze 
out  with  the  hands.  Mix  well  with  I  small  grated  onion,  I 
qt.  of  oysters,  3  beaten  eggs,  1-2  cup  of  melted  butter,  i  tea- 
spoon powdered  sage,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mrs.  H. 

LIVER  DUMPLINGS. 

i  Ib.  of  liver,  finely  minced,  1-2  Ib.  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs 
beaten  light,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  herbs, 
and  flour  enough  to  shape  them  into  balls.  Cook  in  boiling 
soup  or  stew.  Mrs.  F.  C.  Ziegleman. 


•"A   good    wife   is    she  of   whom   the  least   is   said,    cither 
good  or  bad. " 

34  MEATS 


If  any  kind  of  meat  is  to  be  kept  without  ice,  dredge  it  all 
over  with  flour,  taking  ore  that  every  spot  is  covered,  dust 
with  black  pepper,  and  hang  it  up  so  that  it  does  not  touch 
the  'wall.  It  is  easily  washed  off  when  the  meat  is  wanted. 

DUMPLINGS. 

i  egg  well  beaten,  i  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  little  salt  and  flour  until  as  thick  as  you  can  stir. 
Drop  with  a  spoon  in  a  boiling  stew,  cover  tightly,  and  cook 
about  15  minutes  without  removing  the  cover. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Stout. 

DUMPLINGS. 

Sift  together  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a 
little  salt  and  mix  with  water  until  they  will  drop  from  the 
spoon.  Drop  into  boiling  stew  or  soup  and  cook  for  15  min- 
utes without  removing  the  cover.  Dumplings  made  in  this 
manner  are  very  light  and  digestible.  Mrs.  J.  Bacon. 

SWEET  DUMPLINGS. 

Beat  together  i  egg,  i  tablespoon  sugar,  pinch  salt,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  or  3  tablespoons 
milk,  about  1-4  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  adding  chopped  raisins  if  desired.  Drop 
from  a  teaspoon  into  boiling  soup  and  boil  several  minutes. 

Mrs.  Otto  F.  L.  Herse. 

A  chicken  or  a  turkey  is  young  if  the  point  of  the  breast 
bone  between  the  legs  is  soft  and  moves  about  easily  when 
pressed  with  the  finger,  but  if  the  gristle  has  hardened  into 
bone  the  fowl  certainly  is  old. 


MAY  C.  FITZGERALD 

FASHIONABLE 

MILLINERY 

432  3D  STREET  EUREKA,  CAL. 


MEATS  35 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

• 

Cook  chicken  until  it  is  perfectly  tender,  salt  to  taste, 
place  the  pieces  flat  in  a  stone  baking  dish,  a  milk  crock  will 
do,  make  a  gravy  of  the  chicken  broth,  pour  part  of  it  over 
the  chicken,  not  covering  it,  however.  Crust  for  the  pie  as 
follows :  Two  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  i  teaspoonful  salt,  3  tablespoons  butter  well  mixed 
with  the  flour.  Beat  i  egg,  add  to  it  i  cup  sweet  milk  and 
stir  it.  into  the  flour.  Drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls  over  the 
chicken,  bake  from  30  to  45  minutes.  Approved  by  Mrs.  W. 
H.  McMillan. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  chicken  up  as  for  frying,  roll  each  piece  in  flour, 
which  has  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  butter 
and  lard  hot  in  the  skillet,  put  the  chicken  in,  pour  in  i  pint 
of  boiling  water,  add  half  of  a  chopped  onion,  cover  tightly 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Uncover  the  pan,  brown  slightly,  re- 
move the  chicken  and  make  a  gravy  in  the  pan. 

Mrs.  Otto  F.  L.  Herse. 

TAMALES. 

An  old  fat  hen  makes  the  best  tamales.  Cut  it  up  and  stew 
in  plenty  of  water  until  tender.  Put  about  90  dried  corn  husks 
to  soak  in  tepid  water  to  make  them  pliable ;  prepare  a  cup  of 
red  pepper  pulp  or  use  3  heaping  tablespoons  Chili  powder, 
and  add  it  to  the  stew'  when  the  chicken  is  done.  Also  salt 
an  onion  that  has  been  browned  in  butter,  garlic  may  be 
used  if  liked.  Pour  off  half  the  liquor,  leaving  the  chicken 
in  one  kettle  with  just  enough  liquid  to  cover  it,  thicken  the 
stew  with  flour  made  smooth  in  water. 

Make  a  thick  dough  in  the  other  kettle  by  stirring  into 
the  boiling  liquor  the  best  white  corn  meal  sifted  with  about 
2  tablespoons  flour  to  prevent  lumping  and  add  more  salt. 
Mexicans  grind  corn  fresh  every  time,  but  for  American 
taste  the  corn  meal  answers  very  well. 

To  fill  the  tamales  lay  upon  a  table  overlapping  from  you 
7  or  9  corn  husks,  according  to  size,  and  on  the  one  nearest 
you  put.  some  chicken  stew,  3  olives,  and  5  raisins.  On  the 
remaining  husks  put  a  thin  layer  of  the  dough,  rolling  it  out 
with  a  well  floured  rolling  pin.  Roll  the  tamales  like  a  jelly 


"For  age  and  want  save  while  you  may. 
36  MEATS 


cake,  tie  up  the  ends  securely  with  a  narrow  strip  of  corn 
husk.  If  a  hen  is  not  fat,  add  plenty  of  beef  drippings  to 
the  stew.  One  hen  will  make  n  tamales,  making  10  from 
the  chicken  and  i  from  the  giblet.  Mark  the  giblet  tamale 
with  a  twine. 

Pack  closely  in  a  steamer,  cover  tightly  and  set  over  boiling 
water  in  which  has  been  placed  several  whole  cloves.  Cook 
4  hours  or  until  time  to  serve.  Veal  makes  good  tamales,  and 
beef  is  often  used.  31-2  Ibs.  of  meat  will  be  equal  to  a  hen. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Haughey. 

"To  leave  content  with  small  means,  to  use  elegance 
rather  than  luxury  and  refinement  rather  than  fashion." 

SPANISH  HASH. 

Brown  2  tablespoons  of  minced  onion  in  a  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  add  2  cups  of  any  kind  of  cold  chopped  meat 
2  cups  of  tomato  juice,  pulp  of  2  Chili  peppers,  12  seeded 
olives,  and  i  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer 
of  cold  boiled  rice,  cold  chopped  potato  and  then  a  layer  of 
meat.  This  should  make  just  2  layers  of  rice  and  2  of 
meat,  finishing  with  rolled  crackers  and  a  little  grated  cheese 
on  top.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Johnson,  Grant's  Pass,  Ore. 

RAGOUT  OF  BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Cut  cold  beef  into  pieces  about  i  inch  square  and  allow  to 
i  pint  of  meat,  i  tablespoon  of  butter,  same  amount  of  flour, 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  mushroom  catsup,  1-2  pint  of 
stock  or  gravy,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mrs.  M. 


north  mountain  Power  €o< 

ELECTRICAL 
SUPPLIES 

318  F  STREET,  EUREKA,  CAL. 


MEATS  37 

CORN  BEEF   SOUFFLE. 

Two  cups  of  cold  cold  cooked  corn  beef  chopped.  Make  a 
sauce  of  3  tablespoons  butter  and  3  tablespoons  flour,  adding 
i  1-2  cups  of  milk,  and  seasoning  with  i  tablespoon  lemon 
juice.  A  few  drops  extract  of  celery,  cayenne  pepper,  salt, 
and  i-2  teaspoon  grated  onion.  When  somewhat  cool,  stir 
in  the  beaten  yolk  of  3  eggs,  the  chopped  beef  and  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish,  which  should  be  about  2-3  full  to.  allow  for 
rising,  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Walter  Tuft. 
VEAL  PUDDING. 

Slice  veal  in  pieces  1-2  inch  thick,  butter  a  pudding 
dish  and  have  ready  2  cups  of  boiling  rice.  Fill  the  pudding 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  rice  and  meat,  finishing  with  the 
rice,  and  seasoning  each  layer.  Pour  over  all  i  cupful  of 
milk  to  which  has  been  added  a  beaten  egg.  Bake  45  minutes. 

BAKED   MINCE  ROLL. 

This  is  quite  a  dainty  dish  which  can  be  made  out  of  the 
scraps  of  cold  beef,  ham  or  tongue.  Pass  the  meat  through  a 
grinding  machine,  add  bread  crumbs,  season  with  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt  and  work  in  a  beaten  egg.  Make  a  nice 
short  crust,  roll  it  out,  place  the  meat  upon  it,  and  fold  the 
pastry  over  so  as  to  make  a  neat  roll.  Bake  1-2  hour  and 
serve  with  thick  brown  sauce.  Mrs.  William  Morton. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  as  for  stewing,  cover  with  cold  water, 
place  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  allow  it,  to  simmer  gently  until 
the  meat  will  fall  from  the  bones.  One  tablespoon  of  salt 
should  be  added  when  the  chicken  is  about  done.  Take  the 
meat  from  the  bone,  cut  into  small  pieces,  return  the  bones 
to  the  liquor,  and  boil  to  a  pint.  Strain,  season  to  taste,  mix 
with  the  chicken,  and  pour  while  hot,  into  a  mould  that  has 
been  wet  with  cold  water.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  over  night. 
When  ready  to  serve,  turn  it  out  of  the  mold,  and  garnish 
it  with  parsley.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Johnson,  Grants  Pass,  Ore. 


"When  attention  to  details  is  practised  every  day,  company 
will  cause  no  agitation  in  the  household." 

38  MEATS 


TO  USE  LEFT  OVER  CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY. 

Cut  up  equal  parts  of  the  cold  fowl  and  cold  boiled  potato. 
Put  in  layers  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  cream  sauce, 
then  with  a  roll  cracker,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  30 
minutes  or  so.  Mrs.  H.  H. 

SCALLOP  CHICKEN. 

One  chicken  weighing  about  4  1-2  Ibs.,  i  can  mushrooms, 
i  grated  onion,  4  sweet  breads,  4  cups  of  milk  or  cream. 
Boil  the  milk  bread  and  sweet  bread  separately  and  then  cut 
up  as  for  salad.  Heat  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  5 
even  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  stir  in  the  milk.  Put  chicken 
and  other  ingredients  in  the  sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  little  nutmeg,  turn  all  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  place  bits  of  butter  on  top  and  bake  20 
minutes.  The  mushrooms  and  sweetbreads  may  be  omitted. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Hill. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Take  equal  parts  of  cooked  chicken  and  oysters,  chopped 
fine  and  mixed  with  a  cup  of  sifted  bread  crumbs,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Form  in  rolls  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Robinson,  Philadelphia,  Penn. 

Some  hae  meat  that  canna  eat, 
And  some  would    eat  that  want  it ; 

But  we  hae  meat  and  we  can  eat, 

So  let  the  Lord  be  thankit."  — Burns. 


Dr.  C.  L.  Bonstell 

DENTIST 

4OO  F  Street,  ExireKa,  Cal. 

Rooms  4  and  5.  Xew  Ricks  Building- 

.; 

Office  Hours:    9  to  12  A.  M.,  1  to  5  P.  M.  Suudays  10  to  12 


PEPPER  39 

PEPPER. 

Of  this  aromatic  berry  or  fruit  there  are  several  kinds. 
The  black  comes  from  berries  which  grow  on  vines  some- 
thing- like  grapes.  Each  berry  contains  a  seed  which  is  black 
when  dried  and  is  the  pepper  of  commerce.  Black  pepper 
is  much  more  irritating  than  white,  and  even  small  quan- 
tities produce  detrimental  effects  on  the  digestive  organs. 
White  pepper  is  made  by  steeping  the  black  berries  in  lime 
water  and  rubbing  off  their  hard  outer  coats.  Cayenne 
pepper  is  made  from  the  dried  pods  of  various  species  of 
capsicum.  It  is  stimulating,  and  though  not  used  as  com- 
monly as  black  or  white  pepper,  is  much  more  wholesome. 
Chillis  is  the  Mexican  name  meaning  pods. 


c  'r  ctt^  •• 

I 

• 


. 

* 

. 


FISH 

"The  ornaments  of  a  home  are  the  guests  who  frequent  it/'" 

SAVORY  BAKED  FISH. 

Clean  and  skin  any  kind  of  white  fish,  cut  it  into  pieces 
large  enough  for  a  serving.  Put  into  a  baking  dish  I  large- 
tablespoon  of  butter,  1-2  cupful  water,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  and  onion  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  put  in 
the  fish  with  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  a 
thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  some  chopped  parsley  and  onion; 
put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  and  bake  for  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  I.  Hatch. 

FRIED  SMELTS. 

Clean,  wipe  dry  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
beatened  egg,  then  in  flour  alternately  until  well  coated.  Fry 
in  deep  fat  for  20  minutes,  drain  and  serve,  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon.  Mrs.  Herse. 

SALMON  TURBOT. 

Boil  fresh  salmon  in  salted  20  or  30  minutes,  drain,  remove 
the  bones  and  pick  up  in  small  pieces.  Make  about  the  same 
amount  of  rich  cream  gravy  as  there  is  fish.  Pour  over  the 
fish  and  blend,  place  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  on  top,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  moisten  with  a  very 
little  milk,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Mrs.  Switzer. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

One  can  of  salmon,  or  the  same  quantity  of  fresh  cooked 
fish,  minced  fine,  2  large  Irish  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed, 
1-2  of  a  small  onion,  chopped,  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  2 
tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce.  Beat  these  ingredients  to- 
gether until  very  light.  Make  into  balls,  roll  into  cracker 
dust,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Mrs.  Willard  Wtells. 


"The  woman's  cause  is  man's,    they  rise  or  sink 
Together,  dwarf'd  or  Godlike,  bound  or  free.  " 

44  FISH 


HALIBUT  ON  TOAST. 

Take  a  cupful  of  cold  cooked  halibut  or  salmon,  freed  from 
skin  and  tones  and  finely  chopped.  Set  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
cream  in  hot  water  until  hot.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  salt  spoon  of 
salt,  and  gradually  the  hot  milk  or  cream,  I  tablespoon  lemon 
juice,  the  fish  and  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese.  When  thor- 
oughly hot,  spread  out  on  thin  toast  or  crackers,  sprinkle  with 
a  little  minced  parsley  and  serve.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Eisner. 

BOILED  HALIBUT. 

Take  the  cut  next  the  tail,  soak  in  vinegar  and  cold  water 
for  .15  or  20  minutes,  then  scrape  and  wash  it  clean.  Sew 
it  up  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth,  cook  in  boiling  salt  water  over 
a  moderate  fire,  allowing  10  minutes  to  the  Ib.  after  it  com- 
mences to  boil.  Tuin  the  fish  over  when  about  half  done,  sorve 
with  egg  sauce  or  drawn  butter. 

BOILED  SALMON. 

Select  the  head  end  of  a  good  sized  salmon,  cut  up  the 
head,  sew  up  in  a  piece  of  cloth  to  keep  from  breaking,  put 
into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook,  allowing  15  minutes  to  the 
pound.  When  done  remove  the  skin  and  cloth  very  care- 
fully, garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley,  and  serve  with 
drawn  butter  sauce,  or  a  white  sauce  with  parsley  and  lemon 
added.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

CURRY  OF  COD. 

i  Ib.  of  cooked  cod,  2  oz.  of  butter,  2  onions,  i  apple,  I 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1-2  pint  of  milk,  i  tablespon  curry 
powder,  i  tablespoon  flour.  Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from 
the  cod  and  set  aside.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  saucepan,  chop 
the  onions  and  fry  them  a  pale  golden  brown,  mix  the  flour  and 
curry  powder  together  and  stir  in,  now  add  -He  lemon  juice, 
which  helps  to  keep  the  curry  in  good  color,  put  in  the  chopped 
apple,  add  milk  and  stir  over  a  slow  heat  until  it  boils.  Simmer 
gently  for  1-2  hour,  stirring  occasionally,  add  the  fish  broken 
in  large  flakes,  a  teaspoon  cf  tomato  sauce,  and  cook  for  10 
minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  a  border  of  hot  rice. 

Mrs.  E.  I.  Hatch. 


FISH  45 


COD  FISH. 

Soak  the  cod  fish  over  night  in  cold  water.  Boil  in  one 
piece  without  breaking  until  done,  add  sliced  onions  that 
have  been  browned  slowly  in  melted  butter,  and  serve  very 
hot.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Swithenbank. 

SALT  COD  WITH  PARSNIP  PUREE. 

Soak  3  Ibs.  of  salt  cod  at  least  12  hours  in  cold  water. 
Put  the  cod  into  a  stew  pan,  and  simmer  below  boiling  point 
until  cooked,  drain  well,  place  in  a  dish  and  cover  with  the 
following  sauce:  11-2  oz.  butter,  11-2  oz.  flour,  i  pint  of 
milk,  and  2  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped.  Have  ready  6  parsnips 
boiled,  mashed  and  beaten  up  with  i  oz.  butter  and  1-2  cup 
of  cream  or  milk.  Season  to  taste  and  serve  around  the  cod, 
garnished  with  cut  slices  of  lemond.  Mrs.  E.  I.  Hatch. 

OYSTER  STEW. 

Make  a  gravy  of  melted  butter,  flour,  oyster  juice,  pepper 
and  salt,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  extract  of  beef.  When 
boiling  add  the  oysters  and  serve. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

Line  a  deep  pudding  dish  with  thinly  rolled  pie  crust, 
generously  flaked  with  little  dots  of  butter,  and  fill  the  dish 
with  alternated  layers  of  oysters  and  cracker  crumbs,  seasoned 
with  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Add  a  cup  of  oyster 
liquor  to  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  thicken  with  flour,  and  pour  into 
the  pie,  dot  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  cover 
with  a  thin 'crust  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  S.  F.  Pine. 

OYSTER  LOAF. 

Cut  an  oblong  piece  from  the  top  of  a  loaf  of  bread, 
butter  the  walls  and  fill  with  oysters  (about  i  qt.),  adding  i 
tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  1-2  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  small 
bits  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  2  drops  of  Tobasco  sauce. 
Put  on  the  upper  crust  and  lay  on  a  baking  dish,  pour  oyster 
liquor  over  it,  cover  and  bake  20  minutes,  basting  with  the 
oyster  liquor.  Lift  carefully  onto  a  platter  and  serve  hot, 
cutting  it  into  slices.  Mrs.  A.  W.  R.  Berr. 


who  provide  the  food  of  the  world  decide  the  health 
of  the  world. " 

46  FISH 


CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

One  cup  of  cream,  i  tablespoon  butter,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  cayenne,  bring  to  a  boil  and  thicken  with  i  table- 
spoon of  corn  starch,  add  i  qt.  of  Eastern  oysters  and  juice 
and  one  well  beaten  egg  just  before  serving.  Serve  with 
.sandwiches.  This  amount  is  enough  for  6  people. 

CLAM  PIE. 

Fifteen     clams  chopped,   i  cup  of  clam  liquor,     i   cup     of 
scalded     milk,  i  cup     of  rolled  cracker,     4  well  beaten  eggs, 
.salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.       Mix  all  together,  turn  into  a 
greased  pan,    cover    tightly  and  bake  i     1-2  hours. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Bridges. 

SHRIMPS  A  LA  NE\VBERG. 

Chop  2  cans  of  shrimps.  Mix  together  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  1-2  teaspoon  mustard,  i  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  i  cup  of  milk,  cook  until  thick,  salt  to  taste,  add 
shrimps,  and  pour  over  hot  buttered  toast. 

Catherine  Johnson,  San  Francisco. 

CREAMED  CRABS. 

Melt  i  tablespoon  butter,  add  i  tablespoon  flour,  i  cup  of 
hot  milk,  or  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  and  lastly  the  shredded 
crab.  Serve  in  pastry  shells  or  on  toast.  Mushrooms  add 
greatly  to  the  delicacy  of  this  dish.  Chicken,  veal  or  lobster 
may  be  used  instead  of  crab.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Monroe. 

CRAB  SPANISH. 

To  the  meat  of  one  crab  add  i  cup  of  canned  tomatoes, 
i  tablespoons  butter,  i  tablespoon  flour,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Bake  in  shells.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Easl'ey. 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES 

"It  is  the  bounty  of  nature  that  we  live,  but  a  philosophy 
that  we  live  well." 

The  foundation  of  nearly  all  sauces  is  the  same,  remem- 
bering to  keep  the  same  proportion  each  time.  Melt  two 
level  teaspoons  butter  and  stir  into  i  heaped  tablespoon  flour, 
adding  I  coffee  cup  of  liquid.  For  white  sauce  use  milk,  for 
tomato  sauce  use  strained  tomato  juice,  and  for  brown 
sauce,  first  brown  the  butter  and  flour,  then  add  some  good 
soup  stuff,  season  each  sauce  to  taste. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoons  flour,  browned  in  butter  or  beef  drip- 
pings, add  good  soup  stock  or  beef  extract  in  water,  3  tea- 
spoons mustard,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  i  tablespoon  sugar, 
salt  to  taste,  add  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  that  have  been  shelled 
.and  chopped  fine.  Mrs.  Schultz. 

MINT  JELLY  FOR  ROAST  LAMB. 

Crush    6  or  8  large  sprays  of  mint  and  steep  1-2  hour  in  i 
cup  of  boiling  water.     Dissolve    3  teaspoons    gelatine  in    3-4 
cup  of  cold. water,  and  pour     the     mint     over    the     gelatine, 
adding      3-4    cup    of    sugar,    juice    of    i     lemon       and  2 
drops  of  green    coloring.    Strain    intomoulds. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Berr. 

OYSTER  SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  TURKEY. 

One  pint  of  oysters,  1-2  lemon,  2  tablespoons  butter,  i 
teaspoon ftil  flour,  i  teacup  rich  milk,  cayenne  pepper  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Stew  the  oysters  in  their  liquor  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  the  milk ;  when  this  boils  strain  and  return 
to  the  saucepan,  thicken  with  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  stir 
well,  adding  the  butter  and  seasoning,  boil  i  minute,  squeeze 
in  lemon  juice,  shake  well  and  pour  out.  This  is  excellent 
for  any  sort  of  roast  fowl.  Mrs.  M.  A.  Duggan. 


"Prudent  men  choose  frugal  wives," 

48  MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

One  tablespoon  batter,  i  tablespoon  flour,  1-2  pint  boiling 
water,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Heat  the  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  add  the  flour  well,  then  slowly  add  the  water,  re- 
move from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  beated  yolks.  Return  to 
the  stove  but  do  not  boil,  and  add  lemon,  salt  and  red  pepper 
to  taste.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Monroe. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

Cream  2  tablespoons  butter  and  3  tablespoons  flour,  stir 
in  3  cups  of  good  boiling  soup  stuff,  add  the  juice  of  a  half 
of  a  lemon  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  alike.  Keep  hot  tor 
5  minutes,  add  a  little  more  butter  and  sugar  and  nutmeg,  if 
liked.  Mrs.  Schultz. 

SPANISH  MEAT  SAUCE. 

Cook  together  6  tomatoes,    2  bell  peppers  and    2  cloves  of 

garlic,  strain  and  mix  it  with  a    brown  gravy,  or    with    the 

liquor   from  a  pot  roast.      Thicken  with    flour,  if  needed,  and 

add  salt  to  taste.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Richardson. 

"A  perfect  sauce  is  the  promoter  of  digestion  and  the  aid 
to  nutriment.  When  a  contrary  effect  is  produced,  something 
is  wrong  with  the  sauce." 

FRENCH    MUSTARD. 

Mix  together  until  smooth  3  tablespoons  mustard,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  i  level  teaspoon  salt,  and  I  egg.  Pour 
on  I  cup  of  boiling  vinegar,  stir  until  perfectly  smooth,  add 
i  tablespoon  of  olive  oil;  if  covered  tightly  will  Keep  indefi- 
nitely. 

FRENCH    MUSTARD. 

Beat  2  eggs  and  i  teacup  of  thick  cream,  i  teaspoon  each 
of  butter  and  sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt,  and  1-2  cup  mustard. 
Cook  over  boiling  water  until  thick,  then  add  slowly  i  cup 
of  sharp  vinegar.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Pentland. 


MEAT  AND   FISH   SAUCES  49 


HORSE  RADISH  SAUCE. 

Mix  together  i  cup  of  grated  horse  radish  sauce,  1-2 
cup  sifted  cracker  dust,  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  2  cups 
or  more  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  until  smooth,  add  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

WORCESTERSHIRE  SAUCE. 

Six  anchovies,  I  oz.  cayenne,  i  oz.  black  pepper,  i  grated 
nutmeg,  i  oz.  salt,  6  cloves  of  garlic,  i  oz.  of  cloves,  2  qts.  of 
vinegar.  Mash  the  anchovies,  mince  the  garlic,  mix  to- 
gether, and  put  into  a  jar  for  two  weeks,  then  strain  and  seal 
tightly.  Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 


EGGS 

''Like  a  woman,  when  an  egg  is  good,there  is  nothing  better; 
when  it  is  bad,  there  is  nothing  worse." 

BOILED  EGGS. 

"Eggs  badly  boiled  are  good  things  spoiled." 

Put  the  eggs  into  a  saucepan  and  pour  on  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them  well,  let  it  simmer  on  the  back  of  the 
range  for  six  minutes  or  less,  but  do  not  boil.  Eggs  cooked  in 
this  way  will  be  creamy  cl  ar  through  and  when  boiled  will  ba 
leathery  and  indigestible. 

OMELET. 

Have  a  good  fire  and  use  a  smooth  spide-  or  dripping  pan. 
Separate  and  beat  six  eggs  very  light,  add  six  tablespoons 
water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  good  beef  drippings  in 
the  pan,  do  not  use  butter  as  it  scorches,  and  when  hot  turn  in 
the  omelet.  Slightly  brown  it  on  the  under  side,  place  it  in 
a  hot  oven  until  set,  fold  1-2  over,  lay  upon  a  hot  platter  and 
serve  immediately.  Milk  will  make  an  omelet  tough. 

FRENCH  OMELET. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  tablespoon  melted  butter,  11-2 
cups  boiling  milk,  mixed  with  i  cup  bread  crumbs,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  mix  all  together,  fry  in  hot  suet  drippings  and 
finish  in  the  oven.  Mrs.  Logan. 

EGGS  WITH  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

Brown  two  tablespoons  flour  in  a  piece  of  butter,  pour  in 
enough  hot  water  to  make  a  gravy,  add  some  sa'lt,  dash  of 
pepper,  a  little  sugar,  vinegar  to  taste,  or  lemon  juice.  Pour 
over  hard  boiled  eggs  or  eggs  that  have  been  fried.  If  for 
fried  eggs,  use  a  heaping  tablespoon  finely  cut  bacon  instead 
of  the  butter.  Mrs.  Schultz. 


"When  alone,    we  have    our    thoughts    to    watch,    in    our 
families  our  tempers,  and  in  society,  our  tongues. 

52  EGGS 


EGGS  A  LA  GOLDEN  ROD. 

Make  a  roux  of    i  tablespoon  butter,  i  tablespoon  flour  and 

1  cup    milk.      Add  the  whites  of    4  hard    boiled    eggs    finely 
chopped,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  toast,  sprinkle 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley  and  then  press  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  through  a  sieve  and  sprinkle  over  all. 

Mrs.  F.  E.  Herrick. 

OMELET. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  i  cup  sweet  milk,.  1-2  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  fry  in  a  well  buttered  pan 
or  bake.  Cover  the  pan.  Mrs.  Jessie  Rose. 

OMELET. 

Separate  and  beat  six  eggs,     1-2  pint  milk,  six  teaspoons 
corn  starch,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,     little     salt,  add    the 
whites  of  the  eggs  last,  fry  in  a  hot  pan  buttered,  and    when 
brown,  roll  and  serve  immediately, 
brown,  roll  and  serve  immediately.  Mrs.  W.  F.       Stout. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

Stir  5  tablespoons  sifted  flour  into  3  pints  of  milk,  strain 
through  a  sieve  and  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  8  eggs.  Pour 
into  a  large  drpping  pan,  spread  on  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  stiff  and  bake  quickly. 


VEGETABLES 


"If  fresh  meat  be  wanting  to  fill  up  our  dish, 
We  have  carrots  and  pumpkins  and  turnips  and  fish." 
"In  speaking  of  vegetables,  I  must  add  a  few  words  in  favor 
of  the    further  adoption  in  this  country  of  the  French  practice 
of  using  for  soups  the  water  in  which  vegetables  generally  (ex- 
cepting potatoes)  have  been    boiled.      When  we  boil  cabbage, 
turnips,  carrots,  celery,  etc.,  we    dissolve  out  of  them  a  large 
proportion  of  their  salts  without  which  we  become  victims  to 
various  ills." 

Put  vegetables  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  do  not  let  it 
stop  boiling,  and  take  them  out  as  soon  as  done. 

Potatoes  become  unfit  for  food  if  exposed  to  the  light  or 
air.  Keep  them  well  covered  and  in  a  dark  place.  A  potato 
exposed  to  the  sun  or  wind  will  turn  green.  Probably  the  best 
method  of  cooking  potatoes  is  steaming  them  in  the  skins.  If 
peeled  and  then  boiled,  a  large  amount  of  salts  are  lost.  Old 
potatoes  that  are  shriveled  or  sprouted  are  improved  by  being 
peeled  and  kept  over  night  in  plenty  of  cold  water. 

Old  potatoes  that  are  too  small  to  peel  can  be  steamed  un- 
til done.  Peel  arid  pour  over  them  enough  cream  to  coat 
each  potato  well,  put  in  the  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  brown  in  the  oven  and  serve 
very  hot.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

POTATO  PUFF. 

-Boil  and  mash  potatoes  in  the  usual  way,  beat  up  very  light 
with  milk  or  cream,  salt  to  taste,  put  into  a  baking  dish,  smooth 
over  the  top,  brush  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  dot  with  butter,  and 
dust  very  lightly  with  flour.  Brown  in  a  hot  oven. 


Office  Hours:    9  to  4  Residence  2025  H  Street 

Tel.   Main  641  Tel.  Main  1982 

Other  Hours  by  Appointment 

Dr.  E,.  A.  LeatHerwood 

OSTEOPATHIC   PHYSICIAN 

GROSS   BUILDING,    EUREKA,    CAL. 


"Time,  which  is  the  most  valuable  possession  is  the  most 
trifled  with. " 

54  VEGETABLES 


STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Bake  large  potatoes  of  an  even  size.  When  done  cut  each 
one  in  2  lengthwise,  remove  the  inside,  leaving  skin  smooth. 
Mash  the  potato,  beat  up  light  with  salt,  pepper  and  cream, 
fill  the  skins,  cover  with  greated  cheese,  or  a  meringue  and 
return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Van  Hovenburg. 

CREAM  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  boil  small  potatoes  and  pour  over  them  a  cream 
sauce,  made  by  stirring  i  tablespoon  butter  and  I.  tablespoon 
flour  together  and  adding  1-2  pint  boiling  milk,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  slice  two  hard  boiled  eggs  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Langford. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  the  required  number  of  potatoes,  fill  a  dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  potatoes  and  rolled  crackers,  seasoning 
the  layers  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  cheese. 
Finish  with  roll  crackers,  put  bits  of  butter  on  top,  cover  with 
milk  and  bake.  Mrs.  Haughey,  Portland,  Ore. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  boil  sweet  potatoes  about  10  minutes,  drain  and 
put  them  in  a  dripping  pan,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
melted  butter.  Bake  till  done,  a  delicate  brown. 

-     SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  cold 
cooked  sliced  potatoes  and  sliced  onions,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  bits  of  butter  and  the  onions  sprinkled  with  flour, 
and  almost  cover  with  milk.  Bake  30  or  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Pentland. 


Coal 


... 


Is  offering-  a  Superior  Quality-of  Australian  Coal  for  heating-  or 
Booking-  purposes,  sacked  or  in  bulk.     Phone  orders,  Main  216. 


VEGETABLES  55 

BAKED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  parsnips,,  mash  smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  turn  into  a  shallow  baking  pan,  buttered.  Covered  with 
rolled  cracker  and  bits  of  butter  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Select  large  firm  tomatoes,  cut  a  round  piece  from  the  top 
of  each,  scoop  out  the  soft  parts  and  seeds  and  fill  with  the 
following  stuffing:  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley,  2  oz.  but- 
ter, 2  oz.  bread  crumbs,  i  teaspoon  of  onions  grated,  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  the  chopped  tomato,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Replace  the  tops,  place  closely  together  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  about  15  or  20 
minutes.  Mrs.  E.  I.  Hatch. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Slice  green  tomatoes  quite  thick,  roll  in  flour,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  good  beef  drip- 
pings. 

SPINACH  ON  TOAST. 

Wash  carefully  and  tie  the  spinach  in  bunches  and  cook  in 
salted  water  until  done.  Drain  it,  cut  the  strings,  and  lay  on 
buttered  toasted  slices  of  bread,  and  cover  with  a  cream  dres- 
sing made  of  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  thickened  with  a 
little  flour  made  smooth  in  cold  milk.  Lillie  Lagerquest. 

When  cooking  asparagus  or  cauliflower,  always  save  the 
water  and  on  the  following  day  have  a  cream  soup.  Make  a 
roux  of  i  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour.  Season  with 
a  little  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  onion  if  desired,  add  milk  and 
the  water  saved  from  the  vegetables. 

CABBAGE  AND  POTATO  ROLL 

Take  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  an  equal  quantity  of 
cabbage,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  mix.  Heat  some  good  beef 
drippings  in  a  frying  pan,  put  in  the  vegetables  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Press  with  a  knife  and  fry  until  a  deli- 
cate brown  then  fold  carefully  over  into  a  roll  and  form  nicely 
with  the  knife.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 


"Eatin'  and  drinkin'  shouldn't  keep  us  from  thinkin'  ". 
56  VEGETABLES 

ASPARAGUS. 

Boil  asparagus  1-2  hour  in-  salted  water,  drain  and  pour 
over  it  melted  butter  and  browned  rolled  crackers. 

Mrs.  Reese 

CREAMED  GREEN  ONIONS. 

Tie  green  onions  in  bunches  and  cook  ten  minutes  In  boil- 
ing salted  water.  Lift  the  bunches  out  carefully  onto  a  hot 
platter,  tops  all  one  way,  remove  the  cords  and  cover  with  a 
rich  cream  sauce.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

MASHEL)  PARSNIPS. 

Pare,  cut  into  thin  strips,  boil  in  salted  water.  Use  just 
enough  water  to  cook  them,  allow  it  all  to  boil  away,  being 
careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Mash  thoroughly,  adding  a  spoonful 
of  butter  and  2  of  cream  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Ira  Thompson. 

Parsnips  should  be  generously  seasoned  with  buttter,  re- 
membering the  old  adage,  "Fine  words  butter  no  parsnips." 


HEALY  BROS., 


BRIDGE  and 

BEACH  CO. 

Stoves 

and 

Ranges 

Standard  of   Quality 

For  Sale  by 

Eureka 


VEGETABLES  57 


BAKED  BEANS. 

Soak  2  cupfuls  of  small  white  beans  overnight  in  plenty 
•of  cold  water,  parboil  in  water  until  the  skins  begin  to  break. 
Run  cold  water  over  them  until  clear ;  prepare  about  3-4  lb. 
salt  pork,  scrape  and  score  the  rind.  Put  2-3  of  the  beans 
into  a  5  lb.  lard  pail,  put  in  the  pork  and  cover  with  the  re- 
mainder of  beans.  Add  3  or  4  tablespoons  molasses,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  water  to  cover,  and  bake  all  day,  adding  more 
water  as  it  boils  away.  Mrs.  Richardson. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Soak  the  beans  in  cold  water  over  night  and  parboil  in  the 
morning,  drain.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot  with  slices 
of  salt  pork,  add  an  onion  peeled  and  quartered,  pour  in  the 
beans,  and  lay  a  piece  of  pork  on  top,  add  a  tablespoon  of  mo- 
lasses and  when  half  done,  salt  if  needed.  Cover  with  water 
and  bake,  adding  water  when  needed.  Mustard  may  be  added 
if  liked.  Mrs.  R.  Reese. 

BOILED  CUCUMBER. 

Pare  6  cucumbers  and  cut  into  slices  lengthwise  about  the 
size  of  asparagus.  Boil  about  20  minutes,  drain,  lay  on  but- 
tered toast  and  cover  with  cream  sauce.  This  taste  very 
much  like  asparagus. 

STEWED  CELERY. 

Cut  the  celery  into  inch  lengths,  cook  20  minutes  in  boiling 
salted  water,  drain,  and  cover  with  a  rich  cream  sauce.  If 
liked,  the  celery  may  be  cut  in  longer  lengths,  tied  like  aspar- 
agus, and  cooked  in  the  same  way,  serving  it  on  buttered  toast 
with  the  cream  gravy  poured  over.  Mrs.  E.  S.  Lidstone. 

"Celery  grows  wild  nearly  all  over  Europe,  chiefly  in 
dittches  and  marshes  along  the  sea,  and  in  its  wild  state  is 
-called  smallage.  It  was  first  cultivated  by  Italian  gardeners 
and  the  result  of  their  labors  was  two  plants,  called  celery 
and  celeriac.  Celeriac  is  sometimes  called  a  turnip-rooted 
celery  and  is  extensively  used  by  the  Germans.  Use  the  root 
as  any  root  vegetable  boiling  it  and  seasoning  it  in  the  same 
way.  It  is  also  very  nice  in  soup,  and  a  very  useful  vegetable, 
as  easily  grown  as  a  turnip,  but  having  a  decided  celery 
flavor." 


"Woman!  the  one  thing-  perfected  in  this  hasty  world." 
58  VEGETABLES 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Brown  in  a  saucepan  i  lb.  of  diced  bacon,  stir  into  it  T 
tablespoon  of  flour,  add  I  cup  of  water,  i  qt  of  shelled  peas,  i 
small  whole  onion  and  a  handful  of  parsley  tied  in  a  bunch. 
Cook  until  the  peas  are  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
take  out  the  onion  and  parsley  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Fred  McGowan. 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS: 

Boil  onions  in  salt  water  until  tender,  drain  and  fill  a  bak- 
ing dish  with  alternate  layers  of  onion  and  bread  crumbs,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Grate  over  all  a 
little  old  cheese,  cover  with  milk,  and  bake  for  30  minutes. 

BAKED  ONIONS. 

Boil  medium  sized  Spanish  onions  in  salted  water 
15  minutes,  put  them  in  cold  water  for  1-2  hour,  drain  well, 
cut  in  slices  1-2  inch  thick,  and  place  them  in  a  single  layer  in 
a  well  buttered  tin.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  tender  and 
browned,  basting  occasionally  with  butter  and  serve  very 
hot.  Mrs.  Henry  Stern,  San  Francisco, 

A  PRIZE  RECIPE  FOR  FRIjoLIES. 

Soak  2  cupfuls  of  pink  beans  in  cold  water  over  night. 
Cook  in  3  pints  of  water  until  soft  but  not  broken,  try  by 
pressing  between  the  ringers,  drain  and  save  the  liquor. 
Brown  a  chopped  onion  in  some  hot  lard,  put  in  the  beans  and 
i  cup  of  liquor.  Mash  as  they  cook,  adding  salt,  Chili  pepper, 
pulp  and  spices  if  liked.  Cook  until  the  right  consistency, 
adding  the  liquor  as  needed.  Mexican  women  always  cook 
their  beans  in  this  manned,  and  the  onion  as  they  use  it  is  not 
noticeable,  only  givig  the  dish  the  true  Mexican  flavor. 

Mrs.  Jersey. 

FRIJOLIES. 

Boil  i  qt.  of  Bayou  beas  until  tender,  drain,  add  1-2  lb. 
rendered  beef  suet,  4  red  peppers  chopped  fine,  and  salt  to 
taste,  simmer  3  or  4  hours.  Mrs.  Wandesforde. 


VEGETABLES  59 

i : 

SPANISH  BEANS. 

Soak  a  qt.  of  Bayou  beans  over  night  in  water,  drain,  and 
let  them  come  to  a  boil  in  fresh  water,  to  which  has  been  added 
a  pinch  of  soda,  drain  again  and  cover  with  fresh  water,  add 
i  cupful  of  salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces  and  cook  until  tender, 
adding  when  nearly  done  i  tablespoon  Chili  powder,  i  cup 
boiling  tomato  juice,  4  tablespoons  molasses,  i  small  grated 
onion  that  has  been  browned  in  butter  and  i.  teaspoon  French 
mustard.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

SCALLOPED  CORN. 

Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  layers  of  canned  corn 
and  rolled  cracker,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of 
butter  and  finishing  with  the  cracker.  Pour  over  just  enough 
milk  to  cover,  and  bake.  Mrs.  Haughey,  Portland,  Ore. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Use  only  the  best  Carolina  whole  rice,  poor  rice  is  not 
cheap  at  any  price.  Put  three  cups  of  water  and  milk  on  to 
boil,  wash  i  cup  of  rice  until  the  water  is  clear,  and  add  it 
slowly  to  the  liquid  so  that  it  will  continue  to  boil,  add  salt,  set 
back  and  cook  slowly,  stirring  with  a  fork  until  the  liquid  is 
all  absolved,  when  the  rice  will  be  done. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Put  the  rice  in  plenty  of  well  salted  boiling  water  about 
five  times  as  much  as  you  have  of  rice,  and  boil  it  actively  so 
that  the  water  will  bubble  and  toss  the  rice  around,  cook  the 
grains  till  tender  but  no  longer,  for  if  the  grains  will  burst 
they  stick  together.  Test  often  by  squeezing  a  grain  between 
the  fingers,  and  when  it  flattens  easily,  it  is  ready  to  drain. 
It  will  require  15  or  20  minutes.  After  draining  set  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  for  15  minutes. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Melt  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  skillet,  turn  into  a  thinly  sliced 
squash,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  unti  done.  Remo  e 
the  cover  and  simmer  until  dry. 


"Observation  is  the  best  teacher." 
60  VEGETABLES 


BEETS  WITH  SAUCE. 

Boil  beets  until  tender,  the  length  of  time  depending  on 
the  age,  peel,  slice,  and  cover  with  a  sauce  of  boiling  vinegar 
mixed  with  a  small  quantity  of  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
thicken  with  flour.  Mrs.  J.  F.  McGeorge. 


SALADS 


"O,  green  and  glorious  !    O,  herbaceous  t*reat ! 

'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 
Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn    his  fleeting  soul, 

And  plunge  his    fingers  in  the  salad    bowl." 

"It  is  a  common  idea  that  salads  are  difficult  to  make,  and 
are  suitable  only  for  the  wealthy  or  for  special  occasions.  The 
common  people  of  France  use  them  almost  daily,  as  they  are 
easily  made  from  left  overs.  Almost  any  cold  vegetable  may 
be  used,  one  alone  or  several  mixed.  Arrange  them  nicely  on 
lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  a  French  dressing.  A  dressing 
may  be  made  that  will  keep  for  a  week,  and  will  always  be 
ready  to  use  by  adding  a  little  cream." 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Cream  together  the  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  the  same 
bulk  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  little  salt,  pepper  and 
mustard.  Thin  with  vinegar  gradually  to  the  consistency  of 
cream  and  pour  it  over  the  shredded  lettuce.  Mix  well  and 
garnsh  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Mrs.  Robt.  Porter. 

'  LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Shred  crisp  lettuce  with  a  very  sharp  knife  until  you  have 
about  2  quarts.  Dress  it  with  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  and  the  juice  of  2  or  3  lemons.  Garnish  with  hard 
boiled  eggs  sliced.  M.  H. 


J.  LOEWENTHAL 

Reliable  ClotHier 

Agent  for 
Stein-Block  Smart   Clothes — Knox  &  Hawes  Hats 

Cor.  2d  and  F  Sts.,  E-vireRa,   Cal. 


"If you  desire  to  knofr,  do  not  fear  to  ask.  " 
62  SALADS 

DUTCH  LETTUCE. 

Fry  four  or  five  slices  of  bacon,  to  the  drippings  add  about 
the  same  amount  of  vinegar,  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoon  of 
sugar.  Pour  this  sauce  while  warm,  not  hbt,  over  crisp  let- 
tuce that  has  been  cut  up  and  mixed  up  with  a  little  finely  cut 
onion.  Mrs.  W.  Coggeshall.  • 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Steam  six  large  potatoes,  when  cold  cut  into  small 
pieces,  and  season  with  1-2  onion  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper  and 
a  pinch  of  celery.  For  dressing  boil  3  eggs  20  minutes,  mash 
the  yolks  until  smooth  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  1-4  tea- 
spoon of  mustard.  Put  1-4  cup  of  vinegar,  in  sauce  pan,  and 
when  hot  stir  in  the  eggs,  then  add  ,i  cup  or  more  of  rich  sweet 
cream  and  pour  over  potatoes.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Eisner. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Chop  together  I  hard  boiled  egg,  1-4  cup  of  a  small  onion, 
3  or  4  leaves  of  lettuce  and  mix  with  1-4  cup  of  chopped 
cabbage,  i  1-2  cups  sliced  boiled  potatoes.  Add  the  salad 
dressing  when  hot.  Mrs.  Robert  Porter. 

CREAM  CABBAGE  SLAW. 

Select  a  hard  white  "head  of  cabbage  that  does  not  need 
washing,  shred  it  on  a  slaw  cutter  and  salt  to  ta^te.  For  thz 
dressing  take  a  cup  of  thick  cream,  whip  it  very  stiff,  add  I 
tablespoon  sugar,  some  cayenne  pepper,  and  enough  good 
cider  vinegar  to  make  it  sufficiently  sour. 

Mrs.  Haughey,  Portland,  Oregon. 


Do  you  want  to  be  healthy! 

Pure  Olive  Oil  will  make  you  Healthy 

Ehmann's  Olive  Oil,  made  in  Oroville,  Cal.,  is  not  the 
only  pure  Olive  Oil,  but  there  is  none  better  made.  Get 
Ehmann's  Olive  Oil,  and  you  can  be  sure  you  are  rig-ht. 

Put  up  in  battles,  25c,  60c  and  $1.00;  also  1-2   gallon  tins, 
i*g  $1.75;  gallon  tins,  $3.00.       .aS^        .--^^UsS- 

For  Sale  by  SKINNER-DUPREY  DRUQIJCO. 


SALADS  63 

CABBAGE    SLAW. 

Boil  together  2  tablespoons  vingear,  and  i  tablespoon 
sugar;  mix  together  the  beaten  yoke  of  i  egg,  1-2  cup  cream, 
a  little  butter,  1-2  teaspoon  French  mustard,  1-2  teaspoon  salt 
and  stir  it  all  into  the  boiling  vinegar.  When  cold  pour  over 
shredded  or  finely  chopped  cabbage.  Mrs.  H.  D.  Bridges. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD. 

Scald  six  tomatoes,  drop  into  cold  water  and  peel,  then 
scoop  out  the  inside  and  put  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 
Have  ready  one  pair  of  sweet  breads  that  have  been  boiled  in 
salted  water,  and  an  equal  amount  of  celery  cut  fine.  Mix 
with  a  very  little  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and  fill  the  tomatoes. 
Lay  each  tomato  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  put  a  teaspoon  of  Mayonnaise  on  top  of  each  tomato. 

BEAN  SALAD. 

i  can  kidney  beans,  i  cup  of  chopped  sweet  cucumber 
pickles,  i  cup  shredded  celery,  i  level  tablespoon  grated 
onion,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  with  any  salad 
dressing. 

APPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Take  equal  parts  of  diced  apples  and  finely  cut  celery, 
mix  with  Mayonnaise  dressing,  arrange  in  mounds  on  small 
plates,  garnish  each  with  a  star  or  leaf  cut  from  the  parings 
of  a  red  apple,  and  small  sprays  of  the  green  celery  tips. 

.  Mrs.  E.  I.  Hatch. 

BEET  SALAD. 

Dice  boiled  beets,  grate  a  little  onion  over  it,  arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  Otto  C.  Gregor. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

Two  cups  of  finely  cut  salad,  i  cup  /f  broken  walnut 
meats,  juice  of  1-2  lemon,  i  cup  of  whippea  cream,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Mr. .  J.  G.  Lovern. 


"The  handsomest  flower  is  not  the  sweetest. " 
64  SALADS 

A 

APPLE    SALAD. 

Cut  into  small  dice  4  good  sized  apples,  cut  I  small  head 
of  celery  fine,  break  up  1-2  cup  of  English  walnuts,  and  mix 
altogether  with  a  little  salt  and  sugar.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  i  tablespoon  sugar,  1-2  teaspoon  mustard,  a  little 
pepper,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  and  butter 
size  of  an  egg.  When  slightly  cooled,  thin  with  cream  and 
mix  with  the  salad.  When  ready  to  serve,  take  as  many  nicd 
red  apples  as  you  have  persons  to  serve,  cut  off  the  top  of 
each  and  scoop  out  the  inside  wi*h  a  sharp  spoon,  scollop  the 
top  with  a  sharp  knife,  fill  with  the  salad  and  serve  individual 
plates.  Mrs.  J.H.Haughey,  Portland,  Ore. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  oranges  and  divide  into  pieces,  arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves  and  pour  over  the  following  dressing:  1-2  tea- 
spoon salt,  1-4  teaspoon  white  pepper,  blend  well,  then  add  I 
teaspoon  grated  onion,  stir  thoroughly,  and  add  3  teaspoons 
olive,  oil  and  5  teaspoons  vinegar.  This  is  enough  for  four 
persons.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Pine. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

Cut  4  oranges  in  half,  saving  the  rinds  to  serve  the  salad 
in,  cut  up  into  small  pieces  the  oranges,  4  bananas,  1-2  a  can 
of  sliced  pineapple.  Mix  altogether,  rdd  i  cup  of  chopped 
walnut  meats  and  sugar  and  fill  the  orange  cups. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Haughey. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

Select  6  ripe  peaches,  4  bananas,  i  pineapple,  and  some 
cherries.  Slice  the  peaches  into  a  dish,  then  the  bananas,  pine- 
apple and  cherries.  Pour  over  all  a  lemon  sauce  made  of 
lemon  juice  and  sugar,  cover  the  whole  with  whipped  cream 
and  serve.  Mrs.  Oscar  Miller. 


THE  DELTA  CANDY  COMPANY 

WHOLESALE  AND   RETAIL  CONFECTIONERS 
433  F  STREET,    EUREKA 


SALADS  65 

TOMATO  ASPECT. 

Bring  to  a  boil  2  tablespoons  gelatine  dissolved  in  1-2 
cup  cold  water,  i  pint  strained  tomato,  i  tablespoon  grated 
onion,  1-4  teaspoon  celery  seed,  2  bay  leaves,  2  whole 
cloves,  and  1-2  teaspoon  paprica.  Strain  and  add  to  this  i 
teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  taregon  vinegar,  i  teaspoon  lemon 
juice,  i  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  i  tablespoon  chopped 
capers.  Stir  in  one  cup  whipped  cream  and  beat  until  light. 
Put  into  moulds  until  cold,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  i  cup  of  chopped  chicken  or  meat  of 
any  kind  may  be  added.  Mrs.  T.  W.  Hine. 

VEGETARIAN  SALAD. 

Grate  i  raw  carrot,  i  raw  turnip  and  i  onion,  dice  i  large 
apple,  slfce,  four  tomatoes  and  chop  i  cupful  of  roasted  pea- 
nuts. Mix  all  together  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 

LILY    SALAD     (EGG). 

Shell  hard  boiled  eggs  and  drop  them  into  cold  water  to 
which  salt  has  been  added,  and  let  them  stand  for  an  hour  in 
a  cold  place.  Take  from  the  water  and  wipe  dry,  cut  a  thin 
slice  from  the  large  end  of  the  eggs,  then  with  a  sharp  knife, 
directing  the  stroke  from  the  small  end  downward,  cut  the 
white  into  sections  like  the  petals  of  a  water  lily.  Mash  the 
yolks  of  the  egg  through  a  strainer,  mix  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  grated  cheese,  moisten  with  French  dressing  and  ar- 
range on  lettuce  leaves  to  simulate  the  center  of  the  lily, 
arranging  the  whites  for  petals.  Mrs.  J.  P.  Ratzell. 


DAILY  HUMBOLDT  STANDARD 

PUBLISHES     ALL    THE    NEWS    THAT'S     FIT    TO     PRINT 

3      .    By  Carrier,  50  Cents  per  month 

By  Mail,  $5.00  per  Year  in  Advance 

PUBLISHED  EVERY  EVENING  EXCEPT  SUNDAY  AT  319  G  ST.,  EUREKA,  CALJ 

ThelSTANDARD  also  operates  a  JOB  PRINTING  OFFICE,  where  the  best 
Legal,  Society  and  Commercial  Printing-  can  be  secured 
at  the  most  Reasonable  Rates    . 


"It  is  not  work  that  kills,  but  worry," 
66  SALADS 


VEAL  SALAD. 

Three  cups  cold  chopped  veal,  3  cups  of  finely  cut 
celery,  and  11-2  cup  of  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  very 
fine.  Dressing:  Mix  together  i  teaspoon  mustard,  sugar,  salt, 
pepper,  and  3  teaspoons  vinegar.  Add  3  eggs  that  have 
been  beaten  up  separately  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  lime 
juice  and  I  cup  cream.  If  it  curdles,  aL_  another  egg.' 

Mrs.  A.  W.  R.  Berr. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Prepare  2  heads  of  lettuce,  place  in  a  salad  bowl,  slice 
over  it  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  i  cup  of  crisp  sliced  lettuce,  i 
can  of  shrimps  picked  in  small  pieces.  Pour  salad  dressing  over 
just  before  ready  to  serve,  and  garnish  with  one  lemon  sliced 
very  thin.  Mrs.  Burkholder. 

NEAPOLITAN  SALAD. 

Dissolve  i  dessert  spoon  gelatine  in  1-2  cup  cold  water, 
add  i  cup  sugar,  half  the  juice  from  a  can  of  sliced  pine  apples, 
juice  i  lemon,  juice  of  3  oranges.  Melt  over  the  tea  kettle, 
strain  over  i  cup  diced  pineapple,  3  oranges,  and  3  bananas, 
1-2  Ib.  candied  cherries  or  any  other  candied  fruit  may  be 
used.  Put  in  a  cold  place  until  set,  and  serve  with  or  with- 
out cream.  Enough  for  6  people.  Miss  Edith  Porter. 

One  can  French  mushrooms,  i  can  shrimps,  i  pint 
cream,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Add  liquor  of  mushrooms  to 
cream,  add  butter  and  heat  to  boil.  Salt  to  taste  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper  (very  slight).  Thicken  with  corn  starch 
to  thickness  of  thick  gravy.  Break  up  mushrooms,  put 


Insure  Your  Home 

In  tne  Greatest  Fire  Insurance.  Company  in  tHe 'World 

Tested  in  all  the  great  fires: 

Boston  Fire,  Chicago  Fire,  San  Francisco  Fire 
Never  found  wanting- — Dollar  for  Dollar 

The  Liverpool,  London  and  Globe  Insurance  Companies 

C.  R..  GEORGESON,  Resident  Agent 
Georgeson  BlocK 


SALADS  67 

shrimps  in  colander  and  wash,  break  them  up  thoroughly,  and 
add  them  with  the  broken  mushrooms  to  the  thickened 
cream.  Stir  thoroughly  and  keep  hot  till  ready  to  serve.  Just 
before  serving  add  i  egg  beaten.  Serve  on  soda  crackers,  and 
if  they  are  at  all  stale,  heat  them  in  the  oven.  This  quantity 
is  enough  for  eight  persons.  Mrs.  W.  K.  Strong. 

SOME  PLEASING     SALAD  COMBINATIONS. 

No.  i — Diced  canned  pineapple  and  drain  in  a  colander 
until  needed.  Add  1-4  the  amount  of  broken  pecan  nut 
meats.  Mix  with  any  mild  salad  dressing,  and  arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

No.  2 — Grind  i  cup  walnut  meats,  dice  2  cups  of  apples, 
whip  one  cup  of  whipped  cream  very  stiff.  Flavor  with  salt, 
sugar,  cayenne  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  all  together,  and  pile 
roughly  on  lettuce  leaves  and  arrange  on  individual  plates. 

No.  3 — Mix  equal  parts  of  white  turkey  meat,  celery, 
cooked  peas,  and  add  salt,  cayenne  and  any  good  salad  dress- 
ing. 

No.  4 — Cut  into  small  dice  2  cups  of  tongue,  i  cup  pota- 
toes, and  the  root  knobs  of  3  heads  of  celery.  Mix  with 
salt,  cayenne  and  dressing  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  thinly 
sliced  olives. 

No.  5 — Fry  about  four  slices  of  bacon  crisp  and  cut  into 
strips  crosswise.  Cut  into  small  cubes  2  cups  of  chicken  or 
small  veal  and  i  cup  of  celery.  Mix  with  a  very  little  salt, 
pepper  and  salad  dressing  and  garnish  with  very  thinly  sliced 
cucumber  pickles. 

No.  6 — Cut  into  small  pieces  2  cups  cold  roast  pork,  i 
cup  cooked  potato,  11-2  cups  celery,  i  cup  sweet  cucumber 
pickles,  add  salt,  pepper  and  dressing. 

No.  7 — Cut  into  halves  and  seed  unripe  raisin  grapes. 
Mix  with  i  1-2  cups  cold  pork,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  1-2 
cup  broken  walnut  meats.  Add  salt,  cayenne  and  dressing. 

No.  8 — Break  apart  i  cup  of  young  nasturtium  seeds, 
cut  up  2  cups  potato  and  4  hard  boiled  eggs.  Mix  with  salt, 
cayenne  pepper  and  dressing. 

FRANK  ZANE 

REAL  ESTATE  AND  INSURANCE 

323  G  STREET,  EUREKA,  CAL. 


"An  ounce  of  mother  is  worth  a  pound  of  clergy.  " 
68  SALADS 

SPANISH  SALAD. 

Lay  six  green  peppers  in  a  hot  oven  where  they  will 
blister,  then  peel  off  the  outer  skins,  take  out  the  seeds  and  cut 
into  thin  rings.  Scald,  peel  and  slice  four  tomatoes,  slice  six 
green  onions  very  thin,  and  put  all  of  the  ingredients  in  the 
ice  box  until  ready  to  serve.  Arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  on 
individual  dishes,  and  dress  with  vinegar,  olive  oil  and  salt. 

Mrs.  Haughey. 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 

\ 

Mix  together  i  tablespoon  made  mustard,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1-2  cup  vinegar  and  stir  in 
2  well  beaten  eggs.  Cook  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  stir- 
ring carefully  and  when  cold  add  2  tablespoons  of  cream. 

Mrs.  ?.  T.  Weatherby. 

SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  FRU^T. 

One  egg,  2  tablespoons  salad  oil,  1-2  lemon,  pinch  of 
salt,  pinch  of  mustard,  dash  of  red  pepper,  butter  size  of  a 
walnut.  Mix  the  yolk  and  butter  to  a  cream,  slowly  stir  in  the 
salad  oil,  then  the  juice  of  lemon,  salt,  mustard  and  pepper, 
and  lastly  the  well  beaten  whtie  of  an  egg. 

Mrs.    W.    J.  Crane. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

One  tablespoon  each  of  salt,  sugar  and  mustard,  3  well 
beaten  eggs,  i  cup  each  vinegar  and  milk,  mix  together  in  the 
order  named,  cook  until  thick,  and  add  i  tablespoon  of  olive 
oil.  Mrs.  Ethel  Langford. 

FARMER  SALAD  DRESSING. 

One  cup  of  freshly  soured  cream,  yolk  of  one  egg,  i  tea- 
spoon French  mustard,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  sugar, 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  4  tablespoons  lime  juice  or  cider 
vinegar.  Blend  thoroughly  but  do  not  cook.  This  is  very 
nice  for  any  vegetable  or  fruit  salad. 


Humboldt  Times 

NORTHERN    CALIFORNIA'S   GREATEST    NEWSPAPER 

WILL  H.    FISCHER,    EDITOR  AND  MANAGER 

PRINTS     THE     MOST     NEWS  BEST  ADVERTISING   MEDIUM 

HAS  LARGEST  CIRCULATION  BEST   JOB    PRINTING    PLANT 

"THE    PAPER    THE    PEOPLE   RELY   UPON" 
Per  Month,  delivered,  60  cents  Per  Annum,  Advance,  Delivered,  $6 


"Be  to  other  souls  the  cup  of  strength  in  some  great  agony." 
70  SALAD    DRESSINGS 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  i  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add 
i  teaspoon  each  mustard  and  salt,  and  i  tablespoon  sugar. 
When  well  mixed  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
thick  froth,  3-4  of  a  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  mix  again,  then 
add  3-4  of  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Cook  in  a. double  boiler,  stirring 
it  carefully  until  it  thickens.  Mrs.  W.  K.  Strong. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  i  tablespoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  mustard,  i  tablespoon 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  5  tablespoons 
butter,  i  1-2  cups  of  milk,  and  1-2  cup  of  vinegar,  the  latter 
added  very  slowly.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  con- 
stantly. This  will  keep  for  months. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  i  teaspoon  corn 
starch,  i  teaspoon  mustard,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1-3  of  a 
cup  of  vinegar,  beat  all  well  together,  let  come  to  a  boil  and 
stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Robertson,  Philadelphia,  Penn. 

Manners  are  a  happy  way  of  doing  things.  If  they  are 
superficial,  so  are  the  dew-drops  which  give  such  depth  to 
the  morning  meadows." — Emerson 


Sperry' 


Cleanest  Qi^^wTT    o     Stron§est 

Whitest    kjDCll  V    O  Healthiest 


To  Make   Good  Bread 

Soak  1  Magic  Yeast  Cake  one  half 
hour  in  1  pint  of  luke  warm  water. 
Add  1  large  bread  spoonful  each  of 
salt  and  sugar,  enough  SPERRY'S 
BEST  FLOUR  to  made  a  thin 
batter,  cover  and  set  in  warm  place 
to  rise;  when  light,  add  three  pints  of 
luke  warm  water,  and  enough 


We  are  Advertised  Best  by 
Our  Admirers 


SPERRY'S    BEST    FLOUR    to 

make  a  batter.  Beat  all  together 
thoroughly;  set  again  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  (usually  over  night).  When 

light,  add  SPERRY'S  BEST 
FLOUR  until  it  will  not  stick  to  the 
board,  knead  well,  set  in  a  warm 
place.  When  light,  mould  into  loaves; 
let  rise  1  hour.  Bake  1  hour. 

Annie  Woodcock. 


Most  Uniform          Qv^or*^    Most  Economical 
Most  Successful     &JUCICC         Most  Scientific 


BREADS 


"What  first  I  want  is  daily  bread." — John  Quincy  Adams. 

It  has  been  said  that  somewhere  near  724  B.  C.  a  slave  at 
Athens  left  some  wheatened  dough  in  an  earthened  jar,  and 
forgot  it.  Some  clays  afterward,  when  the  dough  had  become 
sour,  he  was  about  to  throw  it  away,  when  his  master  ap- 
peared, whereupon,  in  order  to  cover  up  his  fault,  he  mixed  it 
with  the  fresh  dough  that  he  was  preparing.  The  bread  pro- 
duced by  this  dough,  in  which  fermentation  had  begun  was 
liked  by  the  master  and  his  friends  and  when  the  slave  was 
summoned  he  told  his  secret.  Thus  leavened  bread  was  dis- 
covered by  accident. 

YEAST  WITHOUT  A  START. 

Boil  2  oz.  hops  in  i  gallon  of  water  1-2  hour,  strain,  let 
cool  to  the  warmth  of  new  milk,  add  small  handful  of  salt,  1-2 
Ib.  sugar.  Beat  i  Ib.  of  flour  with  some  of  the  liquid,  mix 
all  well  together,  allow  it  stand  for  3  or  4  days,  then  add  3 
Ib.  mashed  potatoes,  let  it  stand  i  day  longer,  stirring  often. 
This  should  be  made  in  a  2  gallon  stone  crock,  set  in  a  warm 
place,  and  kept  at  the  temperature  of  new  milk.  When  done, 
strain  into  glass  jars  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  This  yeast 
will  keep  a  long  time. 

To  set  bread,  take  i  cup  of  mashed  potato,  scald  2  table- 
spoons flour,  i  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar,  and  when  cool, 
add  2  tablespoons  of  the  yeast.  Set  sponge  at  noon  for  bread  at 
night.  Mrs.  H.  W.  McClellan. 


«IYou  can  get  SPERRY'S  BEST  FLOUR. 

tJYou  can  get  the  best  of    everything    m    the 

GROCERY  LINE 
At  George  H.  Thompson's 

416  5th  Street,  Eureka 


''All  is  fine  that  is  fitting." 

74  BREADS 


In  buying  flour,  the  best  is  always  the  cheapest.  The 
amount  of  water  which  flour  would  absorb  is  a  better  test 
than  its  color,  because  flour  containing  an  abundance  of 
gluten  will  absorb  more  water  than  that  which  contains  a 
larger  amount  of  starch.  Such  flour  will  make  more  bread 
and  is  therefore  cheaper  to  buy.  Pastry  flour  is  the  finest 
white  flour,  and  comes  from  the  center  of  the  kernel.  It  is 
also  called  "Old  Process"  or  "St.  Louis"  flour.  It  is  very 
highly  sifted. 

BREAD  WITH  COMPRESSED  YEAST. 

For  4  loaves  cook  2  potatoes  in  i  pint  water,  when  done 
mash,  and  when  luke  warm  add  one  cake  compressed  yeast 
that  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Stir  in  sifted  flour 
until  the  mixture  is  a  little  thicker  than  griddle  cake  batter 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  rises. 

Then  add  to  the  sponge  i  qt.  of  luke  warm  water,  i  table- 
spoon each  salt,  sugar  and  butter  and  enough  flour  as  can 
make  as  soft  a  dough  as  can  be  handled  well.  Knead  until 
perfectly  smooth  and  elastic,  usually  about  25  minutes  and  set 
to  rise  again  in  a  warm  place.  When  the  bulk  is  doubled, 
shape  into  loaves,  prick  each  one  through  with  a  fork,  place  in 
well  greased  pans  and  when  light  bake. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Haughey,  Portland. 

BREAD. 

Cook  4  potatoes,  mash  and  thin  with  water,  add  1-4  cup 
sugar  and  yeast  to  start.  Let  it  rise  at  least  4  hours.  F  )r 
each  loaf  of  bread  take  i  cup  of  yeast  and  i  cup  of  water  with 
i  teaspoon  lard  and  salt,  knead  stiff  and  let  it  rise  at  least  6 
hours ;  don't  force ;  make  into  loaves  and  bake.  Best  made  in 
the  morning,  as  it  raises  too  much  overnight.  The  quicker  it 
is  raised,  the  lighter  and  whiter  the  loaves. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  McLaren. 

COOKING  MADE  EASY  IN  OUR 

Comfort  Shoes 


Eastern  Shoe  Store 

236  F  Street  at  3d,  Eureka 


BREADS  75 

BREAD  SET  WITH  DRY  YEAST  CAKE. 

At  supper  time  dissolve  i  cake  of  yeast  foam  in  1-2  cup 
of  hike  warm  water.  Boil  and  mash  fine  3  medium  sizid 
potatoes,  pour  over  them  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled 
and  add  while  still  hot  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff 
batter.  When  cool  add  the  dissolved  yeast  cake.  Let  it  rise 
over  night  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  add  3  pints  of 
warm  water,  2  teaspoons  of  salt  and  as  much  sifted  flour  as 
you  can  beat  in  with  a  spoon.  Let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place. 
When  light  add  11-2  teaspoons  of  lard  and  the  same  amount 
of  sugar.  Knead  stiff,  adding  as  much  flour  as  required. 
Let  it  rise  again,  then  make  into  loaves  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  45  minutes.  Mrs.  Esther  Jacobson. 

"One  simple    little  song  we  sing 

To  brides    but  newly  wed, 
Jnst  make  the  best  of  everything 

Especially  of  bread." 

Inexperienced  housekeepers  will  find  it  a  good  rule  to  at- 
tempt at  the  beginning  only  a  few  things.  One  might  well 
begin  with  bread,  which  has  been  called  the  "Staff  of  Life," 
and  is  indispensable  to  good  living.  Never  be  discouraged  by 
a  few  failures,  for  "  Tis  held  that  sorrow  makes  us  wise." 

Many  housekeepers  make  the  mistake  of  setting  their 
bread  overnight.  One  secret  of  good  bread  is  that  every 
stage  of  the  whole  process  shall  be  rapid.  At  the  precise  mo- 
ment when  the  sponge  is  fully  light,  the  bread  should  be 
kneaded,  and  the  process  should  require  not  longer  than  31-2 
hours.  Great  care  should  be  taken  to  keep  the  bread  warm, 
but  not  too  hot,  as  great  heat  will  cause  the  bread  to  sour. 
Old  bread  makers  preferred  a  slow  rise,  which  they  believe 
made  sweeter  bread  but  later  scientific  developments  point 
toward  a  quick  rising  as  the  best,  because  yeast  being  a  plant 
which  lives  and  dies,  by  quick  fermentation  the  plant  is  living, 
when  the  bread  is  ready  to  bake,  and  by  the  slower  process, 
only  the  dead  spores  were  left. 

The  yeast  should  be  fresh  and  lively,  or  the  bread  will  be 
heavy  and  indigestible.  Unless  your  flour  is  near  the  range, 
sift  a  quantity  of  flour  in  a  large  pan,  and  set  in  front  of  the 
oven  to  warm  for  an  hour  or  so. 


"Don't  have  more  secrets  than  you  can  carry  yourself ." 
76  BREADS 

The  wetting  should  be  blood  heat,  and  the  best  way  to 
mix  bread  is  to  stir  the  yeast  into  the  water,  first  measuring 
the  water  to  regulate  the  size  of  the  baking. 

The  kneading  is  very  important  because  if  the  dough  is 
not  thoroughly  mixed  and  the  yeast  evenly  distributed  the 
fermentation  will  not  be  uniform.  The  kneading  is  best  done 
on  a  bread  board,  and  when  the  dough  is  ready  to  rise  it 
should  be  a  smooth,  elastic,  even  grained  mass. 

Brick  shaped  pans  are  preferable  to  others.  Allow  room 
in  the  pans  for  the  second  rising,  which  will  require  about  I 
hour.  The  oven  should  be  well  heated  so  that  the  loaves 
will  begin  to  brown  within  15  minutes,  and  the  fire  should  be 
kept  steady  so  that  the  center  of  the  loaf  will  bake.  In  slack 
baked  bread  the  veast  germs  are  not  all  killed,  and  such 
bread  is  unwholesome.  After  the  loaves  are  baked,  butter 
the  crust  and  cool  as  quickly  as  possible  on  a  wire  toaster, 
resting  on  2  pans  so  that  the  air  will  pass  around  the  loaves. 

Hop  Yeast :  Steep  a  handful  of  hops  in  2  qts  of  boiling 
water,  strain  it,  on  to  4  peeled  potatoes  and  boil  till  done.  Mix 
together  and  stir  into  the  boiling  potato  water  3  tablespoons 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  i  level  teasopon  ginger.  Strain 
the  whole  mixture  through  a  potato  press,  cool  to  blood  heat, 
add  i  cup  yeast  or  i  cake  compressed  yeast.  Let  rise  over 
night  and  put  away  in  a  crock.  This  will  keep  2  weeks  in  a 
cool  place,  but  is  best  made  every  week.  If  the  flour  is  not 
thoroughly  scalded  the  yeast  will  be  likely  to  sour. 

\\Tiole  Wheat  Bread :  Sift,  whole  wheat  flour  into  a  large 
pan,  and  put  by  the  stove  to  warm.  Measure  into  another  pan 
i  qt.  of  warm  water,  stir  into  it  one  cup  yeast,  1-4  cup  mo- 
lasses, i  handful  salt,  and  whole  wheat  flour  as  long  as  you 
can  stir  the  batter  with  a  spoon.  Then  work  in  white  flour 
until  you  can  handle  the  dough,  turn  it  out  on  a  well  floured 
kneading  board,  and  knead  or  until  it  is  very  smooth  and 
elastic  and  will  leave  the  hands.  It  is  always  more  sticky  than 


Rumboldt  County  Bank 


BREAD  77 

white  bread,  so  don't  try  to  put  in  enough  flour  to  keep  it 
from  sticking.  Let  rise  until  the  bulk  is  doubled,  work  into 
loaves,  greasing  the  board  arid  hands  if  it  is  sticky.  Let  the. 
loaves  double  in  size  and  bake  about  i  hour  and  15  minutes. 
This  bread  rises  more  slowly  than  white  and  will  burn  more 
easily.  Mrs.  R.  L.  Haughey. 

YEAST  THAT  WILL  NOT  SOUR. 

Boil  the  potatoes  for  dinner  without  salt,  dram  the  water 
into  a  bright  vessel  and  to  I  qt.  of  the  boiling  water  add  I 
cup  of  sugar,  stirring  until  dissolved.  When  cool  add  I  fresh 
yeast  cake,  set  away  in  a  warm  place  for  a  few  hours  to  rise, 
when  it  will  be  ready  to  use.  Mrs.  Whitten. 

RYE  BREAD. 

To  2  cups  of  scalded  and  cooled  milk  add  i  teaspoon  salt, 
1-4  cup  sugar,  1-4  cup  butter  and  the  compressed  yeast  cake, 
softened  in  1-2  cup  of  tepid  water.  Stir  in  4  cups  of  sifted 
rye  flour,  and  3  cups  of  white  flour,  mould,  set  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place  and  when  light  make  into  loaves.  Bake  when  the 
loaves  have  risen  to  about  twice  their  size. 

Boston  Cooking  School  Magazine. 

RAISED  CORN  BREAD. 

One  large  cup  corn  meal  scalded  with  boiling  water, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  i  small  cup  sugar,  about  i  1-2  pints  of 
water,  and  2-3  of  a  cup  of  yeast,  flour  enough  to  knead.  Mix 
at  night,  let  rise  the  same  as  wheat  bread,  make  into  loaves  in 
the  morning,  and  when  light  bake.  Mrs.  David  Wilson. 

GERMAN  SWEET  ROLLS. 

Break  one  egg  into  a  cup  and  fill  it  up  with  milk,  mix  with 
1-2  cup  of  yeast,  1-2  cup  of  melted  butter,  1-4  cup  of  sugar,  a 
little  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  knead  out.  Let  it  rise  until 
light,  being  careful  not  to  chill,  roll  out  on  a  board,  cut  out 
with  a  cookie  cutter  and  place  in  a  greased  pan  far  enough 
apart  so  that  the  rolls  will  not  touch  when  light.  Let  rise 
again  and  bake.  Miss  Duggan. 


Talk  happiness— the   n-orld  is  sad  enough    without  your 
woes. " 

78  BREADS 


ROLLED  OAT  BREAD. 

Pour  2  cups  of  boiling  water  over  i  cup  rolled 
oats,  add  I  cup  cold  water,  1-2  cup  molasses,  1-2  cup  yeast, 
salt  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  roll  like  brown  bread.  Let  rise 
over  night,  then  put  into  pans,  and  when  light  -bake  slowly 
i  1-2  hour.  Mrs.  Ansel  D.  Hannah. 

LIGHT  ROLLS  FOR  TEA. 

When  the  bread  is  ready  for  the  pans,  take  out  a  piece  of 
dough  the  size  of  a  small  loaf,  add  to  it  i  tablespoon  of  butter, 
roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  1-4  inch,  spread  with  butter,  cut 
out  with  a  round  cutter,  fold  1-2  over  the  other  and  when 
very  light  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Kirby. 

POTATO  BISCUIT. 

Boil  six  large  potatoes,  mash,  add  i  tablespoon  butter, 
i  egg,  i  pint  milk,  and  when  cool  beat  in  1-2  cup  yeast  and 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  When  light  make  into  small  cakes 
let  rise,  and  bake.  Mrs.  Ansel  D.  Hannah. 

RUSKS. 

One  and  a  half  qts.  flour,  i  cup  yeast,  1-2  cup  sugar,  -2 
eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  and  mix  stiff  with 
warm  milk.  Set  in  a  warm  place  until  very  light,  then 
knead  in  the  form  of  biscuits,  place  on  buttered  tins,  and 
when  very  light^  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  B.  McAdams. 

Telephone  Main  648  Office  Hours:  9  to  12  and  1  to  5  \ 

DR.  CHARLES  M.  TOMLINSON 

DENTIST 

GEORGESON    BLOCK 

COR.  FOURTH  AND  E  STREETS 

EUREKA,   CAL. 


BREADS  79 


RUSKS. 

One  cup  of  bread  sponge,  1-2  cup  of  sugar,  1-4  cup  of 
butter,  i  egg,  a  little  salt  and  flour  enorgh  to  make  a  batter 
that  will  spread.  Let  it  rise  until  light,  add  1-2  cup  of  seeded 
raisins,  and  spread  in  a  buttered  baking  pan.  W|hen  light 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  small  bits  of  butter  and 
bake  slowly.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Hardy. 

BAKING  POWDER. 

Eight  oz.  cream  of  tartar,  4  oz.  baking  soda,  4  oz.  corn 
starch.  Sift  well  together  several  times,  as  the  chief  danger 
of  failure  lies  in  not  having  the  ingredients  well  mixed.  If 
yon  are  sure  of  the  quality  of  cream  of  tartar,  you  will  have 
an  article  that  you  know  is  pure. 

The  action  of  baking  powder  consists  in  the  fact  that 
when  wet  it  effervesces,  and  gives  off  carbonic  acid  gas, 
Avhich  operates  in  the  same  way  as  the  gas  given  off  by 
yeast.  The  action  of  baking  powder,  however,  is  soon  over, 
and  if  the  bread  or  pastry  is  not  baked  at  once,  the  gas  begins 
to  escape,  and  the  dough  will  settle.  To  succeed  when  using 
baking  powder,  2  things  are  necessary :  the  powder  must  be 
thoroughly  and  perfectly  sifted  with  the  flour,  and  after  the 
powder  has  been  wet  so  that  it  rises,  it  must  be  baked  as  soon 
as  possible. 

BAKING   POWDER   BISCUIT. 

Sift  together  i  qt.  of  flour,  2  heaped  teaspons  baking 
powder,  and  i  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  in  with  the  hand  i  heaped 
tablespoon  lard,  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  soft  dough. 
Knead  just  enough  to  roll  out,  handling  as  little  as  possible, 
cut  into  shape  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Owing  to  the  action 
of  baking  powder,  success  depends  on  kneading  quickly,  mak- 
ing the  dough  soft,  and  baking  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  I.  B.  Thomson. 

CORN     BREAD. 

Two  tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  i 
cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  3-4  cup  of 
corn  meal,  mix  quite  stiff  by  adding  white  flour. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Crane. 


"Waste  no  time,  for  time  is  the  stuff  that  life  is  made  of." 
80  BREADS 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 

Allow  15  minutes  for  the  mixing  and  baking  of  the  bis- 
cuits. Sift  together  3  pints  of  flour,  3  heaped  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  salt,  mix  with  milk,  using  a 
spoon  (do  not  knead),  turn  out  on  a  well  floured  board, 
dust  with  flour,  press  into  a  flat  sheet,  cut  out  with  a  well 
floured  cutter,  dip  in  melted  butter  or  beef  drippings  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  R.  L.  Haughey. 

CORN  BREAD. 

Sift  together  3  cups  corn  meal,  2  cups  white  flour,  i 
level  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  and  4  rounded  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Add  3  well  beaten  eggs,  milk  to 
make  a  batter,  and  3  tablespoons  melted  butter;  bake  in  thin 
sheets  about  3-4  of  an  hour. 

JOHNNIE  CAKE. 

Half  "cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  i  cup  sweet  milk, 
2  cups  flour,  sifted  with  i  cup  corn  meal,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  and  i  teaspoon  salt.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Cook. 

CORN  BREAD. 

Sift  together  2  cups  corn  meal,  i  1-2  cups  flour,  1-2  cup 
sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  mix 
thin  with  milk,  adding  i  beaten  egg. 

fjJA  Personal  Message  to  you: 

tjlf  you  anticipate  buying  Silverware  of  fine  quality  I  have 
Rogers  &  Hamilton  Co.'s  make  at  greatly  reduced  prices 
tJCarvmg  Sets,  Shears  and  Scissors  at  half  price. 
CjfClocks,  Suit  Cases  and  Trunks  at  reduced  prices. 

Call  at 

I.  HODES 

326  Second  Street,  Eureka 


BREADS  81 


CORN  CAKE. 

One  or  2  eggs,  I  cup  of  milk,  i  cup  of  sugar,  I  cup  of 
corn  meal,  i  cup  of  flour,  and  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.    Keck. 

SOUTHERN   CORN   BREAD. 

To  one  cup  white  corn  meal  add  i  tablespoon  butter,  1-2 
teaspoon  salt,  1-2  cup  boiling  water,  stir  slightly,  and  add 
1-4  cup  sweet  milk.  Stir  vigorously  and  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls on  a  well  greased  hot  griddle,  let  brown  and  turn,  add- 
ing a  little  more  grease  and  set  in  the  oven  to  finish. 

Mrs.   Irene   Peed. 

PARKER  HOUSE  CORN  MEAL  GEMS. 

Sift  together  i  cup  flour,  i  cup  corn  meal,  4  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1-2  teaspoon  salt.  Cream  together  1-4  cup 
of  butter,  add  gradually  1-2  cup  sugar,  then  3  well  beaten 
eggs,  i  cup  of  milk,  and  the  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  but- 
tered gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven.  Boston  Cooking  School. 

MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  i  egg. 

Mrs.  C.  h.  Robinson,  Philadelphia,  Penn. 

MUFFINS. 

Sift  together  i  cup  flour,  i  heaping  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  i  heaping  teaspoon  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  add  2 
well  beaten  eggs,  and  i  cup  of  milk.  Turn  into  hot  buttered 
gem  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MUFFINS. 

One  egg,  add  3  level  tablespoons  sugar,  dash  of  salt,  1-2 
cup  water  or  milk,  3  tablespoons  melted  shortening,  stir 
together,  and  add  i  cup1  flour,  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder.  Batter  should  be  about  the  consistency  of 
cake  batter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  W.  Coggeshall. 


"GiVe  what  you  have, 

To  some  it  may  be  better  than  you  dare  tt>  think. 

82  BREADS 

BROWN  BREAD   (STEAMED  3  HOURS.) 

Two  cups  Graham  flour  sifted,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup 
sour  milk,  i  cup  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  i  egg,  1-2  cup 
shortening,  i  teaspoon  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt.  This  is  fine 
with  baked  beans.  Mrs.  A.  B.  Cummins. 

BROWN  BREAD  (STEAMED  6  HOURS.) 

Two  cups  corn  meal,  i  cup  Graham  flour,  2.  cups  of 
freshly  soured  milk,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  2-3  cup  molasses,  3 
even  teaspoons  soda,  i  teaspoon  salt. 

Mrs.  L.  H.  Campbell. 

GRAHAM   BREAD    (STEAMED   3   HOURS). 

• 

One  cup  Graham  flour,   i   cup     wheat  flour,    1-4      cup 
sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt,  and     i  teaspoon     soda,     1-4  cup  mo- 
lasses, and  i  cup    sour    milk.  Mrs.  J.  F.  McGeorge. 
GRAHAM   BREAD   (STEAMED  3  HOURS). 

Two  cups  sifted  Graham  flour,  i  cup  white  flour,  i 
cup  sour  milk,  I  cup  sweet  milk,  1-2  cup  dark  molasses, 
spoon  of  salt,  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk. 

Mrs.   W.   A.   Graham. 
BROWN  BREAD   (STEAMED  3   1-2  HOURS). 

One  cup  each  Graham  flour,  rye  flour,  corn  meal, 
sweet  milk,  and  sour  milk  with  i  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  i 
level  teaspoon  salt,  1-2  cup  of  molasses,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter.  Mrs.  Chapman. 


CHAS'ARMSTRONG 
SHOE  CO. 


INCORPORATED 


21 3  F  Street,  Eureka,  Cal. 


DEALERS    IN 


Fine  Footwear 

Phone  Main  951 


BREADS  83 

BROWN  BREAD   (STEAMED  4  OR  5  HOURS). 

Two  cups  of  corn  meal  scalded  and  cooled,  2  cups  sour 
milk,  i  cup  molasses,  2  cups  Graham  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt, 
2  teaspoons  baking  soda,  i  cup  of  raisins  seeded  and 
chopped.  Steam  in  5  lb.  lard  pails  with  the  cover  tied  on 

,  tightly.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Noyes  (in  memoriam). 

i 

BROWN    BREAD    (STEAMED    3   HOURS). 

One  cup  white  flour,  2  cups  corn  meal,  i  cup  second 
tirade  molasses,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda,  and 
a  little  salt.  .  Mrs.  E.  A.  Cockburn. 

BROW:N  BREAD  (BAKED). 

One  cup  sour  mlk,  i  cup  molasses,  1-2  cup  cold  water,  I 
teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  11-2  cups  corn 
meal,  and  i  1-2  cups  Graham  flour.  Bake  35  minutes  with 
a  cover  and  15  minutes  uncovered. 

QUICK  BROWN  BREAD  (BAKED  ABOUT  45  MINS.) 

Two  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  1-2  cup  molasses,  i  1-2 
cups  sour  milk,  2-3  cup  finely  chopped  or  ground  walnut 
meats,  i  teaspoon  each  salt  and  soda,  bake  in  a  buttered 
dripping  pan.  This  is  very  fine.  Mrs.  Littlefield. 

BRAN  GEMS. 

Two  cups  bran,  2  cups  wheat  flour,  1-2  cup  sugar.  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1-4  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon 
melted  butter,  i  pint  milk.  Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together, 
then  add  the  milk  and  butter.  Put  into  hot  greased  gem 
pans  and  bake  slowly  i  hour.  Mrs.  H.  W.  Hamilton. 

GRAHAM    GEMS. 

One  cup  Graham  flour,  1-2  cup  flour,  1-4  teaspoon 
salt,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  i  egg, 
3-4  cup  butter  milk.  Stir  all  together  well,  bake  20  min- 
utes in  gem  pans.  Mrs.  Ratzell. 


Mama's  Choice 


GuittarcTs  Pure 


Coffee,  Tea 

Spices 

Extracts 

Baking  Powder 


Absolutely  Pure  and  necessary  to  the  Practical  Cook 
A  little  better  value  at  the  usual  cost,  without  the  worry 


Mama's  Choice 


BREADS  85 

MUFFINS. 

Two  eggs,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  I 
tablespoon  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  batter.  Bake  in  buttered  muffin  pans  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  Minnie  Fraser,  Seattle. 

STALE  BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

These  are  the  lightest  and  most  digestible  cakes  made. 
Soak  2  cups  of  stale  bread  over  night  in  i  qt.  of  milk  or 
water.  In  the  morning  add  1-2  teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon 
sugar,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  or  2  eggs  beaten, 
and  flour  to  make  a  batter  of  the  right  consistency.  Beat 
very  smooth  and  fry  in  the  usual  way.  If  any  left  over 
batter  sours  by  the  next  morning,  add  enough  soda  to  correct 
it.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

RAW  POTATO  PANCAKES   (GERMAN). 

Peel  and  grate  6  raw  potatoes,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
3  tablespoons  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  beat  up  and  fry  as  you 
would  any  griddle  cake. 

RAISED  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

At  night  take  4  cups  of  flour,  1-2  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup 
yeast,  and  milk  or  water  to  make  a  batter.  In  the  morning 
take  out  enough  to  use  for  breakfast,  add  to  it  a  little  salt, 
i  egg  if  desired,  and  a  level  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  more 
sugar  if  needed.  Rub  the  griddle  with  a  greased  cloth  or 
the  rind  of  salt  pork.  Save  the  remainder  of  the  batter, 
adding  to  it  each  night  aiK.  using  the  sour  dough  just  as 
one  would  use  sour  milk. 

SWEDISH  PANCAKES. 

Two  eggs,  3  heaped  tablespoons  flour,  pinch  of  salt  and 
sugar,  i  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  if  milk  add  a  little  butter; 
beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the  flour  which  has  been  made  smooth 
in  a  little  milk,  and  then  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  The 
batter  must  be  very  thin.  Mrs.  R.  D.  Porter. 


"Ben-are  of  little  expenses;  a  small  leak   will  sink  a  great 
ship. " 

86  BREADS 


WAFFLES. 

Mix  i  3-4  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1-2 
teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  and  i  table- 
spoon melted  butter.  Mrs.  C.  J.  Chapman. 

QUICK  WAFFLES. 

Two  pints  sweet  milk,  i  cup  melted  butter,  sifted  flour 
to  make  a  soft  batter,  six  eggs  separa  ed  and  beaten  very 
light,  and  just  before  baking  4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  very  hard  and  fast  for  a  few  minutes.  These  are  very 
good  with  4  eggs,  but  much  better  with  more.  Mrs.  Herse. 

WAFFLES. 

One  pint  sour  cream,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  and  the 
whites  added  just  before  baking,  i  teaspoon  each  soda  and 
salt  and  flour  enough  for  a  very  thin  batter. 

Miss   Bertha   Brown. 


PUDDINGS 

"If  you  could  make  a  pudding  wi'  thinking  o'  the  batter, 
it  'ud  be  easy  getting  dinner." — George  Eliot. 

A  pudding  should  be  mixed  as  one  would  mix  the  cake, 
butter  and  sugar  and  creamed  first,  then  the  eggs  beaten 
light,  and  added,  then  the  other  ingredients,  with  the  fruit 
floured  and  added  last.  Stir  just  enough  after  the  fruit 
has  been  added  to  mix  it  with  the  batter.  Puddings  with 
much  fruit  should  have  more  flour  in  order  to  hold  up  the 
weight  of  the  fruit. 

Puddings,  as  a  rule,  are  much  lighter  steamed  than 
boiled.  It  is  not  necessary  to  have  a  mould ;  melt  the  rims 
from  fruit  cans  the  desired  size,  grease  them  well,  fill  a 
little  over  half  full  of  batter,  stand  them  in  a  steamer  over  boil- 
ing water,  lay  a  thick  cloth  over  the  top  of  the  steamer,  put 
on  the  cover,,  and  set  a  weight  upon  it.  Do  not  remove  the 
cover  or  jar  the  kettle.  The  cloth  absorbs  the  moisture 
and  if  not  used  the  steam  condenses  on  the  inside  of  the 
cover  and  makes  the  pudding  soggy.  Use  the  same  cans 
and  rule  for  steaming  brown  bread.  In  boarding  houses 
and  in  families  where  a  few  are  served  at  a  time, 'the  small 
cans  will  be  found  very  convenient.  Miss  May  Burton. 

BLACK  PUDDING  (STEAMED  4  HOURS). 

Half  cup  shortening,  i  cup  each  molasses,  brown 
sugar,  sweet  milk,  3  well  beaten  eggs,  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  sifted  with  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon 
each  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  i  cup  floured  raisins. 

Mrs.   J.    A.    Clark. 

If  you  want  good  clean  Milk  or  Cream  call  up  the 

iSweasey's  Farm  Dairy 

Farm  Phone,  Farmers  105 


"Make  it  your  habit  not  to  he  critical  about  small  things.  " 
90  PUDDINGS 

RAISIN   PUDDING    (STEAMED   OR   BOILED). 

Half  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, i  egg,  i  cup  milk,  i  cup  raisins  seeded  and  chopped, 
serve  with  cream  or  sauce.  This  is  excellent  if  chopped 
apples  are  used  instead  of  raisins.  .  Mrs.Logan. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING   (STEAMED   i    1-2  HRS.) 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  1-2  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  cup 
sweet  milk,  i  pint  flour,  sifted  with  2  heaped  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  and  i  pint  of  huckleberries. 

Mrs.   Buchanan. 

PLUM  PUDDING  (STEAMED  3  1-2  HOURS.) 

One  cup  raisins,  i  cup  prunes,  i  cup  currants,  1-2 
lemon  peel  cut  fine,  3  eggs,  i  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  cups 
flour,  i  1-2  cups  suet,  i  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  milk  enough  to  wet  the  dough.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Johnson. 

SUET  PUDDING   (STEAMED  3  HOURS). 

One  egg,  1-2  cup  molasses,  2-3  cup  sour  milk,  i  cup 
chopped  suet,  -  1-2  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  allspice  and 
cloves,  i  rather  scant  teaspoon  soda,  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  i  cup  raisins  .and  1-2  cup  currants. 

Miss  A.  Bonnickson. 

CHRISTMAS  PUDDING  (STEAMED     4  HOURS  AND 
BAKED  i  HOUR). 

To  fill  a  quart  pudding  mould  that  has  a  funnel  2-3  full, 
and  thus  allow  for  the  rising,  use  the  following:  1-2  teaspoon 
each  cinnamon,  allsoice,  cloves  and  nutmeg  all  mixed  dry; 
21-2  cups  seeded  raisins,  11-2  cups  flour.  3-4  cup  molasses,  6 
eggs  and  i  3-4  cups  or  a  little  more  milk.  Butter  the  mould 
and  butter  slightly  stale  slices  of  bakers  bread,  the  lighter 
and  fluffier  the  better  and  put  the  pudding  together  in  layers, 
sprinkling  each  with  spice,  sugar  and  molasses,  scattering 
the  raisins.  Beat  the  eggs  with  the  milk  and  pour  in  last. 
Do  not  put  much  molasses  on  the  first  layer,  as  it  settles.  A 
brown  and  white  mottled  appearance  is  what  is  desired.  Serve 
with  any  rich  sauce.  This  is  a  delicious  pudding. 

Helen  Card  well. 


PUDDINGS  91 


MOLASSES  PUDDING  (STEAMED  i  HOUR). 

One  cup  molasses,  I  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  hot  water,  in 
which  dissolve,  1-2  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  ginger,  i  egg,  i 
1-2  cup  flour.  Sauce:  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  i  cup 
sugar,  add  1-2  cup  boiling  milk,  when  it  thickens  remove 
from  the  stove,  cool,  flavor  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  before  serving. 

SUET  PUDDING  (STEAMED  .3  HOURS) 

One  cup  molasses,  i  cup  chopped  suet,  i  cup  raisins,  i 
cup  sour  milk,  2  level  teaspoons  soda,  i  teaspoon  salt,  3  cups 
sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon  and  i  teaspoon  cloves. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Cook. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING  (STEAMED  OR  BOILED 
6  OR  8  HOURS). 

Three  cups  chopped  suet,  6  cups  sifted  flour,  2  cups 
raisins,  2  cups  currants,  i  cup  citron,  i  teaspoon  each  ginger, 
cloves,  allspice,  i  grated  nutmeg,  i  heaped  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  a  little  salt,  3  eggs,  wine  glass  of  grape  juice,  milk 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Soak  fruit  in  grape  juice,  chop 
the  suet,  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  Mix  baking 
powder  and  suet  in  the  flour  dry,  add  fruit,  milk  and  the  eggs, 
stir  thoroughly.  Boil  6  or  8  hours  in  a  well  floured  pudding 
bag  or  in  a  tightly  covered  pudding  mould. 

Mrs.  Gil.nore. 

CORN  MEAL  PUFFS  (STEAMED  30  MINUTES). 

Two  even  teaspoons  cornmeal  stirred  into  i  cup  boiling 
milk,  and  cooked  for  z.  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Cool 

«J  £r» 

slightly,  add  flavoring,  salt,  and  2  eggs  well  beaten,  steam  in 
3  cups  and  serve  with  sauce.  -  Mrs.  L.  H.  Campbell. 

PLAIN  PLUM  PUDDING  (STEAMED  3  OR  4  HOURS). 

One  cup  molasses,  i  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour  sifted  with  3 
tablespoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  nutmeg,  i  cup  chopped  suet,  and  i  cup  chopped  raisins. 
This  never  fails.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Harris. 


The  secret  of  the  joy  of  Jiving  is  the  proper  appreciation 
of  what  we  posses.  " 


PUDDINGS 

If  M     J 

c*. 


PLUM     PUDDING     (STEAMED  '3    HOURS). 

Two  cups  flour,  2  cups  suet,  i  cup  rolled  crackers,  i  cup 
molasses,  i  cup  chopped  green  apple,  i  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 
dissolved  in  1-2  cup  water,  3  cups  fruit,  i  teaspoon  each  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice,  2  teaspoons  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  lemon 
extract,  i  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  a  few  drops,  of  almond.  This 
will  appear  too  stiff  but  is  a  delicious  pudding. 

Mrs.  Ansel  D.  Hannah. 
/ 

BANANA  PUFFS  (STEAMED  i  HOUR). 

Three  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  1-4  cup  water,  i  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  3  bananas  sliced  and  stirred  into  the 
batter  last.  Serve  with  sauce  or  cream.  Mrs.  A.  W.  R.  Berr. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING  (STEAMED  4  HOURS) 

Four  eggs,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  teaspoon  each  salt,  cloves, 
cinnamon,  1-2  nutmeg  grated,  i  cup  milk,  i  1-2  cups  seeded 
raisins,  1-2  cup  currants,  1-4  cup  almonds  blanched  and 
chopped,  1-2  cup  citron  sliced,  i  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  i 
level  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  i  tablespoon  warm  water, 
flour.  Mix  well  together  the  well  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  spices, 
salt,  milk,  fruit,  nuts,  bread  crumbs,  suet,  and  dissolved  soda, 
adding  flour  enough  to  make  the  fruit  stick  together,  which 
will  require  about  i  pint.  Mrs.  B.  McAdams. 

FRUIT  PUDDING  STEAMED. 

One  cup  of  cooked  blackberries,  i  cup  sour  cream,  1-2  cup 
molasses,  2  level  teaspoons  soda,  2  tablespoons  butter,  i  egg, 
and  flour  to  make  a  medium  stiff  batter.  Mrs.  T.  H.  Chope. 

"We  should  be  keerful  how  we  encurridge  luxuries  —  It  is 
but  a  step  forard  from  hoe  caik  to  plum  puddin,  but  it's  a  mile 
and  a  half  by  the  nearest  road  when  we  have  to  go  -back 
agin."  —  Josh  Billings. 


E.  W.  WELLS  &  SON 

DRUGS    AND    KODAK    GOODS 

2O7  F  ST.,  EUREKA,  CAL. 


PUDDINGS  93 


ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING  (STEAMED    OR  BOILED 

3  HOURS.) 

One  cup  molasses,  i  cup  milk,  i  cup  chopped  suet,  i  cup 
raisins,  4  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, i  egg  and  flavor  with  lemon. 

Mrs.  U.  J.  Noe  (in  memoriam). 

GRAHAM  PUDDING  (STEAMED  2  HOURS). 

Half  cup  molasses,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk,  1-4  cup  butter,  i 
egg,  i  1-2  cups  Graham  flour,  1-2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  'in 
a  little  boiling  water,  i  cup  raisins  and  currants,  a  little  citron, 
spice  to  taste.  Mrs.  Monroe. 

MARMALADE  PUDDING  (STEAMED  3  HOURS). 

3  oz.  flour,  3  oz.  bread  crumbs,  i  1-2  oz.  sugar,  6  oz.  mar- 
malade, 2  oz.  suet,  3-4  teaspoons  soda,  1-4  pint  milk.  Chop 
the  suet  finely,  add  flour,  sugar,  crumbs,  and  then  the  marma- 
lade, mix  with  a  little  milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved. The  pudding  must  oe  rather  stiff.  Mrs.  W.  Wells. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  PUDDING  (STEAMED  2  1-2  HOURS) 

Mix  2  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  1-2  teaspoon  soda,  1-2  tea- 
spoon salt,  i  cup  milk,  1-2  cup  molasses,  i  cup  seeded     and 
*  chopped  raisins,  or  ripe  berries.    Serve  with  foamy  sauce. 

Mary  Bailey  Clark: 

DATE  PUDDING   (STEAMED  i   1-2  HOURS).    , 

Melt  1-2  cup  butter,  add  1-2  cup  molasses,  1-2  cup  milk,  3 
eggs  well  beaten,  11-2  cups  Graham  flour,  sifted  with  1-2 
teaspoon  soda  and  i  teaspoon  salt,  add  i  cup  dates  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Sauce :  Cream  1-2  cup  butter,  adding  gradually  i 
cup  powdered  sugar,  and  4  tablespoons  milk. 

Mrs.  Coggeshall. 

SUET     PUDDING     (STEAMED     3    HOURS). 

Half  cup  suet,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk,  ,1-2  cup  molasses,  1-2 
cup  currants,  i  cup  raisins,  pinch  of  salt,  1-4  teaspoon  all  kinds 
of  spices,  1-2  teaspoon  soda,  i  1-2  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  Robert  Holmes. 


"If  you  want  peace,  make  for  yourselves  nests  of  pleasant 
thoughts." 

94  PUDDINGS 


APPLE    PUDDING    (STEAMED    2    HOURS). 

One  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  shortening,  2  eggs,  2  cups 
sweet  milk,  3  heaped  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  to  make 
a  rather  stiff  batter,  and  i  qt  apples  cut  fine  and  floured. 
Serve  with  a  lemon  sauce.  This  amount  will  serve  12  or  15 
people.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Clark. 

RICE    PUDDING. 

One  qt.  of  cooked  rice,  add  I  pint  of  milk  and  let  it  become 
boiling  hot,  add  1-2  cup  sugar  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs. 
The  boiling  rice  should  cook  the  eggs,  further  cooking  would 
be  apt  to  curdle  the  custard.  Add  flavoring,  turn  into  dish 
to  cool,  and  cover  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  to  which 
has  been  added  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Miss  Burton. 

JOHN'S  DELIGHT  PUDDING  (STEAMED  OR  BOILED 

2  HOURS). 

Two  and  a  half  cups  bread  crumbs,  1-2  cup  chopped  suet, 
1-2  cup  molasses,  i  cup  raisins,  floured  and  added  last,  i  cup 
sweet  milk,  1-2  teaspoon  soda,  1-4  teaspoon  salt,  1-2  teaspoon 
cloves,  same  of  cinnamon,  i  egg.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mould 
and  eat  with  har-d  sauce.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Pentland. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING   (STEAMED  4  HOURS). 

One  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  1-2  cup 
molasses,  1-2  teaspoon  salt,  i  1-2  cups  Graham  flour.  Sift  the 
flour  to  make  it  light,  but  return  the  bran,  dissolve  soda  in 
milk,  add  salt  and  molasses,  pour  mixture  upon  the  flour,  add- 
ing eggs  and  butter  and  then  one  cup  raisins. 

Serve  with  the  following  cream  sauce :  Whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  very  stiff,  add  i  cup  powdered  sugar,  flavor  and  beat 
thoroughly,  and  at  the  last  minute  add  1-2  cup  boiling  milk. 

Mrs.  L.  H.  Campbell. 


DR.  JOHNSTON 

DENTIST 

Office  with  Dr.  Dunsran,   Cor.  3d  and  G  Sts. 

Office  Phone:    Main  532  Residence  Phone:    Main  1227 


PUDDINGS  95 


SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  I  cup  molasses,  i  cup  sour  milk, 
i  cup  raisins,  i  te'aspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  allspice,  1-2  tea- 
spoon cloves,  little  nutmeg,  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a 
.stiff  batter.  Eva  McKinnon. 

COTTAGE    PUDDING. 


One  cup  bread  crumbs,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup 
<currants,  i  cup  suet,  i  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt  and  flour  to 
make  a  batter.  Bake  i  hour.  Sauce :  Boil  together  i  cup 
sugar  and  i  cup  water,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  or  corn  starch 

•  dissolved  in  water,  flavor  with  vanilla.      Mrs.  H.  B.  Switzer. 

SNOW    PUDDING. 

One  pint    boiling  water,  i  tablespoon  corn  starch,  i  table- 
spoon sugar,     little  salt.       When  boiling  hot,  add  the  stiffly 
"beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  cool  in    a  mould.        Sauce:     1-2 
pint     milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1-2  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon     corn 
:  starch,  cook  until  thick  and  flavor  to    taste. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Clark,  Portland. 

MARSHM  ALLOW     PUDDING. 

Dissolve   i   cup  of  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  warm  water  and 

-when  cool  add  i  cup  sugar,  the  unbeaten  whites  of    2    eggs, 

pink  coloring  and  flavoring  and  whip  for  15    minutes.    Serve 

in  a  glass  dish,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut.    This  is  a  very  dainty 

•  dessert.  Mrs.  Ethel  Langford. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  add  2  scant  oz.  corn  starch,  beat 

-until  smooth/then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  .of  2  lemons, 

.and  a  very  little  water  to     thin  it.       Put  the  balance  of  the 

water  (a  qt.  should  be  used  altogether)  in  a  double  boiler  with 

3-4  of  a  Ib.  of  sugar  and  i  oz.  gelatine.    When  boiling  hot  stir 

in  the  corn  starch  mixture,  cook  thoroughly  and  when  cold  stir 

in  the  stiffly    beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.      Set  away  in  a  cool 

•  place  for  3  or  4  hours.  Mrs.  Odenbaugh. 


"Out  of  debt  out  of  danger.  " 

96  PUDDINGS 


ORANGE  '  PUDDING. 

Bring  to  a  boil  the  juice  of  4  oranges  that  have  been  mixed 
with  i  tablespoon  corn  starch  made  smooth  in  cold  water,  yolks 
of  3  eggs  and  1-2  cup  sugar.  Pour  this  boiling  custard  over 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Beat  well  and  serve  cold. 

BANANA  PUDDING. 

Soak  i  cup  tapioca  or  sago  for  2  hours  in  cold  water,  add 
i  qt.  of  milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  clear.  Beat  to- 
gether yolks  of  4  eggs  and  3  tablespoons  sugar,  a  Ititle  salt, 
butter  size  of  an  egg  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  sago.  Cook 
about  5  minutes,  and  turn  a  layer  about  1-2  inch  thick  into  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  slice  banana  thinly  over  the  custard  and' 
continue  these  layers  until  the  custard  is  used  up.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  very  light,  sweeten  slightly,  spread  on  top 
and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  moments.  Serve  very  cold. 
Fresh  peaches  or  oranges  are  very  nice  used  in  the  same  way. 

Miss  May  Burton. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Cook  40  prunes  very  soft,  seed  with  a  fork  and  break  up 
well.  The  pudding  is  apt  to  fall  if  the  skins  are  left  on.  One 
cup  sugar  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  bake  20  minutes.  Sauce :  Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs 
and  add  i  qt.  of  hot  water,  cook  in  a  double  kettle  until 
creamy.  Miss  Bertha  Brown. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  6  oranges,  add  i  cup  sugar.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  6  eggs  with  3  tablespoons  corn  starch,  strain  it  into 
i  qt.  of  boiling  milk  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler.  Pour  over 
the  oranges  while  hot.  Beat  whites  of  6  eggs  very  stiff,  add  2 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  brown  very  slightly  in  the 
oven.  Serve  very  cold.  Mrs.  J.  G.  Loveren. 

COTTAGE    PUDDING.. 

One  cup  sugar,  i  beaten  egg,  i  pint  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  sifted  with  flour,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
i  cup  sweet  milk.  This  may  seem  too  thin,  but  will  make  a 
nice  loaf.  Serve  with  any  nice  sauce.  Mrs.  Corbaley. 


PUDDINGS  97 

APPLE    PUDDING. 

Nearly  fill  a  buttered  pudding  dish  with  sliced  apple  and 
pour  over  the  top  a  batter  made  of  i  tablespoon  butter,  1-2 
cup  sugar,  i  egg,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk  and  I  cup  flour,  with 
which  is  sifted  i  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  apples  are  done  and  serve  with  a  sweet  sauce  or 
sugar  and  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  G.  H.  Calhoun. 

APPLE   ROLLS. 

Two  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt  and  i  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  sift  together,  and  blend  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add 
2-3  cup  of  milk.  Peel  and  chop  fine  4  apples.  Roll  the  dough 
out  1-2  of  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and 
cover  with  the  chopped  apples.  Roll  up  like  jelly  cake,  cut 
off  strips  2  inches  wide  and  bake .  25  or  30  minutes  with  the 
following  sauce  poured  over  the  rolls,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  i 
cup  hot  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  add  butter,  lemon  juice  and 
vanilla.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Herrick. 

PEACH    SHORT    CAKE. 

Sift  together  2  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i 
saltspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  sugar,  mix  in  2  tablespoons  butter 
and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  into 
2  cakes,  butter  them,  lay  one  of  them  on  top  of  the  other. 
When  done,  separate,  butter  well,  spread  with  sliced  peaches 
and  sugar,  serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored 
with  orange.  Mrs.  J.  F.  McGeorge. 

A    FRUIT    COBBLER. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  line  a  dish  with  it,  put  in  a  pint 
jar  of  greengage  plums  or  any  other  fruit  and  pour  over  it  I 
cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  butter,  and  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream.  Bake 
until  the  crust  is  done.  berve  with  sauce  or  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  R.  Berr. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 

One  qt.  flour,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  i  cup  sugar, 
2  cups  milk,  3  tea  poons  baking  powder,  2  cups  of  huckle- 
berries. Bake  in  shallow  pans  and  eat  hot  with  butter. 

Mrs.  E.  D.     Keck. 


"Many  hare  withstood  the  frowns  of  the  world,  hut  its  smile 
and  caresses  have  hugged  them  to  death.  " 

98  PUDDINGS 


STRAWBERRY    SHORT    CAKE.  ; 

One  qt.  flour,  3  tablespoons  butter,  i  tablespoon  white 
sugar,  i  egg,  I  large  cup  sour  cream,  pinch  of  salt,  and  i  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  a  very  little  hot  water.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  roll  lightly  and  quickly  into  2  sheets,  then  lay  one 
sheet  of  paste  upon  the  other  and  bake  until  done.  While  wrarm  I 
separate  the  sheets,  fill  with  strawberries  and  powdered  sugar, 
and  serve  with  sweet  cream.  Mrs.  M.  A.  Duggan. 

BAKED  BANANAS. 

Strip  off  half  the  banana  skin,  remove  the  threads,  replace 
in  skin,  sprinkle  2  teaspoons  sugar  on  top  of  each  banana,  bake 
20  minutes,  and  serve  hot  with  the  following  sauce :  i  table- 
spoon butter,  melted,  and  mixed  with  1-2  cup  of  sugar"  i 
teaspoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  the  juice  of  3  oranges,  mix 
all  with  the  juice  from  the  bananas  and  cook  until  the  right 
consistency.  E.,  San  Francisco. 

HAMBLRG    CREAM. 

The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  i  large  lemon,  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  1-2  cup  sugar,  stir  for  3  minutes,  put  into  a  double 
boiler,  and  when  cooked,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Serve  cold.  "The  Tea  Kettle,"  Omaha  Neb. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

Quarter  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  1-2  cup  milk,  i 
1-2  cups  flour,  2  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder,  bake  in  a 
shallow  pan.  Helen  Sargent,  San  Francisco. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Soak  3  tablespoons  tapioca  in  i  cup  of  water  over  night, 
in  the  morning  add  i  cup  of  milk,  yolks. of  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  little  salt,  and  beat  all  together.  Cook  until  it 
boils  and  is  clear.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff,  add  3  table- 
spoons sugar,  i  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  stir  -lightly  into  the 
cream.  Serve  in  glasses.  Mrs.  A.  H.  Cone,;  S.  F. 


PUDDINGS  9!) 


PEACH  OR  APPLE  COBBLER. 

a^shallow  pudding  dish  with  sliced  peaches  or  apples, 
sprinkle  Well  with  sugar,  dust  with  flour,  and  fill  the  dish  half 
full  of  water.  Cover  with  a  rich  pie  crust,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  i  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  cream  sauce. 

Mrs.  Herse. 

BAKED   CUP   CUSTARD. 

Beat  six  eggs  without  separating  until  thick  and  creamy, 
add  i  qt.  of  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  a  little  salt,  and  a  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Wet  the  cups  on  cold  water  before  filling,  and  set 
them  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
set,  taking  the  cups  out  of  the  water  immediately  or  the  cus- 
tard will  be  likely  to  curdle.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

"%-  ; 

/ 

•-  \ 


• 


/ 

fan  .ert*JU 


i^  • 


PUDDING  SAUCES 

"The  chief  pleasure  in  eating  does  not  consist  in  costly 
seasoning,  or  in  exquisite  flavoring,  but  in  yourself." 

EVERYDAY  SAUCE. 

One  pint  boiling  water,  add  i  heaping  tea  cup  sugar, 
tablespoon  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  and  i  tablespoon  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Season  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla 
and  cook  until  clear.  Mrs.  McKercher. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  i  cup  boiling  milk,  when  melted  stir 
in  2  well  beaten  eggs,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  and  serve 
immediately. 

LEMON    SAUCE. 

Beat  well  together  i  tablespoon  corn  starch,  1-2  cup  sugar, 
I  egg,  and  pour  into  it  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  i  table- 
spoon butter,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick,  add  the  juice 
and  rind  of  i  lemon. 

LEMON   SAUCE. 

Half  cup  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream  with  i  cup  sugar,  add 
the  juice  of  i  lemon,  and  6  tablespoons  boiling  water,  pour  in 
one  at  a  time.  S  it  over  boiling  water  until  thoroughly  hot. 


€JFor  all  the  ingredients   found  in  this   book,  first  come  to 

"The  Model"  and  take  a  look. 
^f  We're  sure  to  please  you.     We  carry  the  best. 
tj  And  like  the  recipes,  our  goods  stand  the  test. 

"THE  MODEL  GROCERY" 

Main  585         SARVIS  &  PORTER.  P  Eureka 


"A  blant  knife  shows  u  dull  wife." 
102  PUDDING  SAUCES 


HARD  SAUCE. 

Two  cups  Golden  C  brown  sugar,  creamed  with  1-2  cup 
of  butter;  continue  to  beat  this  until  it  becomes  light  and 
fluffy. 

PUDDING    SAUCE. 

One  cup  sugar2  2  eggs,  1-2  cup  butter,  beat  to  a  cream  and 
cook  for  5  minutes  over  hot  water.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 


PIES 

"I    pray  you,  ()  excellent  wife,  not  to  cumber  yourself  and 

1  me  to  get  a  rich  dinner  for  this  man  or  this  woman  who  has 

>  alighted  at  our  gate,  nor  a  bed  chamber  made  ready  at  too 

great  a  cost.       These  things  they  can  get  for  a  dollar  at  any 

village.       Certainly  let  the  board  be  spread  and  let  the    bed  be 

dressed  for  the  traveler;  but  let  not  the  emphasis  of  hospitality 

lie  in  these    things." — rEmerson. 

GOCM*  FAMILY    PIE    CRUST. 

This  rule  makes  4  pies  with  2  crusts.  Have  the  filling  for 
the  pies  ready  as  the  dough  must  be  mixed  quickly  and  baked 
immediately.  Sift  together  i  qt.  flour,  i  teaspoon  each  baking 
powder  and  salt.  Rub  into  it  with  the  fingers  i  cup  of  lard. 
Then  stir  in  with  a  spoon  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  dough. 
Do  not  knead,  leave  the  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  To 
prevent  the  juice  from  running  out  of  pies  made  from  straw- 
berries, blackberries  and  other  small  juicy  fruit,  mix  the  sugar 
with  cracker  dust,  it  is  much  nicer  than  flour,  and  seal  the 
edges  of  the  pie  with  an  inch  wide  strip  of  muslin  wet  in 
water,  leaving  one  end  loose  so  that  it  can  be  easily  stripped 
off.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Whitten. 

PIE     CRUST. 

I'se  one  cup  of  shortening  to  3  cups  of  flour  and  rub  to- 
gether until  it  is  as  fine  as  sand,  add  an  even  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  enough  cold  water  to  hold  it  together.  Handle  as  little 
as  possible.  Roll  out  some  of  the  dough  with  butter  for  the 
upper  crust,  and  when  ready  for  the  oven  brush  over  with 
cream. 


Buy  your  Groceries,  Crockery,  Glassware,  Teas  and  Coffees 

FROM  A.  COTTRELL 

PHONE  MAIN  46  COR.  5TH  &  H  STS.,  EUREKA,  CAL. 


"The  greatness  of  no  nation  can  be  secure  that  is  not  based 
upon  a  pure  home  life.  " 

104  PIES 

"No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes  as  the  soil  we 
first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies." 

MINCE   MEAT. 

.      w''' 

5  Ibs.  beef,  2  Ibs.  suet,  3  qt.s  apples,  2  Ibs.  raisins,  2  Ibs.  cur- 
rants, i  pint  vinegar,  3  Ibs.  sugar,  2  teaspoons  cloves,  2  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  I  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  all  together  and 
cook  i  hour,  adding  a  little  water  and  stirring  carefully. 

Mrs.    Jess    Bacon. 

MINCE   MEAT. 

2  Ibs.  beef,  i  Ib.  suet,  5  apples,  3  Ibs.  brown  sugar,  2  Ibs. 
raisins,  1-2  gal.  sweet  cider,  salt  and  lemon,     2     Ibs.  Sultana 

i 

raisins,  2  Ibs.  currants,  1-2  Ib.  citron,  3  tablespoons  cinnamon, 
2  tablespoons  mace,  i  tablespoon  allspice,  i  tablespoon  nut- 
meg. Mrs.  M.  L.  Higgins  (in  memoriam). 

MINCE   MEAT. 

3  qts.  lean  beef,  5  qts.  apples,  i  qt.  suet,  2  qts.  raisins,  1-2 
qt.  citron,  i  qt.  molasses,  i  qt.  vinegar,  2  qts.  sweed  cider,  2 
qts.  light  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  i  tablespoon 
cloves,       i       tablespoon       salt,         i        tablespoon        pepper, 
i  tablespoon  ginger,  3  lemons.         Run  the     meat,  suet     and 
i  qt.  of  raisins  through  a  meat  grinder.       Wash,  cut  up,  and 
chop  the  apples  without  peeling  them,  cut  the  citron  very  fine, 
grate  the  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel.     -Mix  all  together  and  cook 
slowly  for  several  hours,     taking  care  that  it  doer  not  burn. 
Pack  into  small  crocks,    cover  with  melted  parafine,  then  with 
a  cloth.      Dried  apples    may  be  used  if  soaked    over  night  in 
vinegar.  Mrs.  Haughey. 


ORANGE    CREAM    PIE. 


Beat  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1-2  cup  sugar, 
add  i  heaped  tablespoon  flour  and  i  even  tablespoon  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  milk,  pour  into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  and 
cook  3  minutes.  Flavor  with  extract  of  orange  or  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  an  orange  and  pour  into  a  baked  crust. 
Beat  the  white  stiff,  add  sugar,  spread  upon  the  top  and  set  in 
the  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Clark. 


PIES  105 


MINCE   MEAT. 

lib.  meat,  2  Ibs.  suet,  2  Ibs.  raisins,  3  Ibs.  currants,  4  Ibs. 
apples,  4  Ibs.  brown  sugar,  2  nutmegs,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon, 
i  tablespoon*  cloves,  salt  and  citron  to  taste,  i  qt.  cider. 

Mrs.  Fenwick. 

W.  C.  T.  U.  MINCE  MEAT. 

3  bowls  of  meat,  3  bowls  of  apples,  i  bowl  of  molasses,  i 
bowl  vinegar,  2  bowls  suet  or  butter,  2  bowls  raisins,  5  bowls 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  nutmeg,  2  table- 
spoons cloves,  i  tablespoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  vanilla,  citron. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Langford. 

£     ORANGE    PIE. 

Thee  eggs^i  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  juice  and  rind  of 
i  large  orange,  i  cup  cream  or  milk.  Mix  the  yolks  und 
sugar,  add  the  juice  and  rind,  then  the  milk. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Warren. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  crust,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake.  One 
teaspoon  corn  starch,  made  smooth  in  -cold  water,  2  crackers 
rolled  to  a  powder,  i  cup  boiling  water,  i  cup  sugar,  juice  of 

1  lemon,  and  a  part  of  the  rind  grated,  yolks  of    3  ,  eggs    and 
white  of  i.       Cook  a  few  minutes,  turn  into  the  crust,  cover 
with  the  whites  of  2    eggs,  beaten    and    sweetened,  browned 
slightly  in  the  oven.  Miss  Amandk  Bonnickson. 

LEMON    PIE. 

Mix  together  and  turn  into  a  pie  crust  i  .1-2  cups  sugar, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter 

2  tablespoons    sweet  milk,  4  eggs  reserving  the  whites  of  2  for 
the   top.    Bake  like  a  custard.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Wteatherby. 

PINEAPPL^    CREAM    Pift. 

Half  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  grated  pineapple,  i  cup 
milk,  2  eggs,  bake  in  a  crust.  Mts.  C.  E.  Robinson, 

Philadelphia. 


"The  action  of  women  on  our  destiny  is  increasing." 
106  PIES 

LEMON    PIE. 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  i  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  a 
little  salt  beaten  to  a  foam,  the  whites  of  3  eg§s  beaten  stiff, 
and  3  tablespoons  milk.  Mix  all  together,  turn  into  a  crust 
and  bake  like  a  custard  for  about  40  minutes.  Beat  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  stiff  with  a  little  sugar,  spread  over  the  pie  and 
brown.  Mrs.Jess  Bacon. 

LEMON    PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  small  piece  butter,  i  lemon,  I 
tablespoon  corn  starch  made  smooth  in  cold  .water  and  i  cup 
boiling  water.  Mrs.  Mary  McKay. 


''What  moistens  the  lip  and  brightens  the  eye 
What  calls  back  the  past  like  the  rich  pumpkin  pie." 

Whittier. 

PUMPKIN    PIE. 

One  cup  of  steamed  and  mashed  pumpkin,  i  cup  of  milk, 
1-2  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  each  ginger  and  cinnamon,  2 
tablespoons  each  melted  butter  and  molasses.  Mix  together,  fill 
a  pie  crust  and  bake  until  set.  Mrs.  Buchanan. 

SQUASH    PIE. 

One  pint  of  steamed  and  mashed  squash,  i  pint  of  milk, 
3  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon  each  ginger,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg,  salt  to  taste.  Bake  with  an  under  crust. 

Mrs.  McGillivray. 


HAIR   DRESSING 


ELECTRICAL,    FACE   AND   SCALP    MASSAGE 
SHAMPOOING,    MANICURING    AND    HAIR    DYING 

PHONE  MAIN  811  6O4   F   STREET 


PIES  107 

CUSTARD   PIE. 

The  pastry  in  custard  pie  is  often  soggy.  This  can  be  pre- 
vented by  partially  cooking  the  crnst  before  filling,  first 
pricking  it  with  a  fork.  The  eggs  should  be  beaten,  the  yolk 
and  white  together,  until  thick  and  c'eamy,  the  longer  the 
better  and  the  custard  baked  just  long  enough  so  that  a  knife 
blade  trust  into  the  center  will  come  out  clean.  If  baked  too 
long  or  in  a  very  hot  oven,  the  custard  will  separate.  Use  3 
eggs,  3-4  cup  sugar,  and  a  teaspoon  flavor  to  i  pint  of  milk. 

Mrs.  Jersey. 

APPLE    CUSTARD    PIE. 

Three  cups  stewed  apples,  2  cups  sugar,  5  well  beaten  eggs, 
1-4  cup  butter  and  lemon  flavoring.  Bake  with  bottom 
crust.  This  makes  2  pies. 

CARROT    PIE. 

Two  cups  of  boiled  and  mashed  carrots,  3  eggs,  I  cup  of 
milk  sweetened  to  taste,  and  add  1-2  teaspoon  each  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  and  ginger.  "Line  2  small  pie  plates  with  paste  and 
bake  without  upper  crust. 

SOUR  CREAM    PIE. 

One  large  cup  sour  cream,  i  large  cup  chopped  raisins,  I 
teasrx>9n  flour,  1-2  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  soda  size  of  a  bean.  Bake  in  2  crusts. 

Mrs.  George  Walters. 

SQUASH. 

Two  cups  steamed  and  mashed  squash,  3-4  cup  brown 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  2  tablespoons  milk  and  butter, 

1  tablespoon  each  ginger  and  cinnamon,  3  eggs,  little  salt  and 

2  cups  of  milk.   Filling  for  2  pies.      Mrs.  F.  H.  Tappendorf. 

. 
SHO    FLY    PIE. 

Three  cups  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  scant  1-2  cup  shortening. 
Mix  as  for  pie  crust,  take  i  cup  molasses,  1-2  teaspoon  soda. 
This  makes  3  pies.  Place  1-2  the  flour  mixture  in  the  bottom, 
then  the  syrup,  then  th?  remaining  flour.  Make  the  crust  as 
for  lemon  pies.  Mrs.  J.  Falk. 


"Perfection  is  attained  by  slon-  degrees;  she  requires  the 
hand  of  time. 

108  PIES 


CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Three-quarters  cup  sugar,  i  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  I. 
egg,  pinch  of  salt,  i  heaping  tablespoon  chocolate,  i  3-4  cup 
milk,  cook  until  it  thickens,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into 
a  baked  crust  and  when  cool  spread  with  a  layer  of  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Van  Hovenberg. 

MOCK  CREAM  PiE. 

One  pint  milk,  2  yolks  eggs  and  the  white  of  i,  1-2  cup 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  i  teaspoon  butter  and  1^2  tea- 
spoon flavoring.  Cook  all  until  it  thickens  being  careful  not 
to  scorch  it.  Bake  with  i  crust.  Beat  the  white  of  i  egg 
stiff,  add  sugar,  spread  upon  the  pie  and  brown. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Cone,  S.  F. 

CHOCOLATE    PIE. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  dough  as  for  custard  pie,  prick  with  a 
fork  and  bake.  Filling:  i  cup  sweet  milk,  i  1-2  section  choco- 
late grated,  stir  into  the  milk  and  put  into  a  double  boiler  to 
heat.  Mix  with  an  egg  beater  the  yolks  of  i  or  2  eggs  with 
i  1-2  teaspoons  corn  starch  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook 
about  10  minutes.  Add  i  teaspoon  vanilla  and  sugar  to 
taste.  Fill  crust,  set  into  the  oven  until  skin  forms  on  top, 
put  on  the  meringue  and  return  to  the  oven  until  set. 

Miss  Robertson. 

BANANA    PIE. 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  crust  and  bake ;  slice  into  the  crust  2 
or  3  bananas  and  pour  over  them  a  custard  that  has  been 
cooked  and  cooled  and  frost  with  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  Drake,  Grants  Pass,  Oregon. 


The  new  things  we  display  are  many  and  varied. 
An  abundance  of  everything  in  the  Jewelry  line. 

Silver,  Cut  Glass,  Watches,  Diamonds   and  Optical   Goods 

C.  H.  WRIGHT,  Jeweler 

Repairing...  F  St.,  Eureka  Phone  Main  949 


PIES 

CURRANT     PIE.    • 

Mash  well  together  i  cup  fresh  currants  and  i  cup  sugar. 
Add  2  tablespoons  cold  water,  i  tablespoon  flour,  yolks  of 
2  eggs.  Bake  in  a  crust  and  when  done  frost  with  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened  with  1-2  cup  sugar. 
Return  to  the  oven  and  brown  slightly.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Ferguson. 

CHESS    PIE. 

Half  cup  butter,  i  'cup  sugar,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  4  tea- 
spoons flour,  and  i  1-2  or  2  cups  according  to  the  size  of  the 
pic  pan.  Have  the  crust  ready,  but  do  not  cook.  Pour  custard 
in  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven,  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff,  add 
a  little  sugar,  spread  upon  the  pie  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
brown.  Good.  Mrs.  G.  A.Taylor. 

TURNED    OVER   APPLE    PIE. 

Pare  and  slice  apples  into  an  empty  pie  plate,  cover  with 
a  crust,  and  bake.  When  Gone  turn  up  side  down  on  a  fresh 
plate,  smooth  the  apple  with  a  knife  and  spread  over  it  thickly 
a  hard  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg  and  serve  warm.  It 
may  be  served  with  butter  and  sugar.  Mrs.  Balcom. 

FLORENCE  PIE. 

Nearly  fill  a  very  deep  pie  plate  with  sliced  apples.  Sift  to- 
gether 2  cups  flour,  i  1-2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of 
salt,  rub  in  i  tablespoon  butter,  and  mix  with  milk  to  make  a 
thick  batter.  Spread  it  over  the  apples  and  bake  until  the  fruit 
is  done.  Invert  a  plate  upon  the  pie  and  turn  it  over.  Spread 
with  butter,  sugar  and  little  nutmeg  and  serve  hot  with  cream. 

Grants  Pass,  Oregon. 
"\Yho'll  dare  to  deny  the  truth,  there's  poetry  in -pie." 

IRISH    POTATO     PIE. 

Half  cup  warm  mashed  potatoes,  1-3  cup  butter,  i  cup 
sugar,  flavor  with  nutmeg,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Beat  all  together 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  a  lower  crust.  Beat  the  white  stiff 
with  tablespoon  of  white  sugar  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a 
few  moments.  Mrs.  Irene  Peed. 


"One  is  seldom  sorry  for  having  eaten  too  little.  " 
110  PIES 

RAISIN    PIE. 

• 

Soak  I  package  of  seeded  raisins  over  night,  cook  until 
done,  flavor  with  juice  of  i  lemon  and  with  the  grated  rindi 
and  thicken  with  corn  starch  made  smooth  in  cold  water.  Bake 
in  2  crusts.  This  makes  2  small  pies.  Mrs.  H. 

RASPBERRY  MERINGUE. 

• 

Fill  a  baked  crust  with  ripe  raspberries,  cover  with  a 
meringue  of  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten,  stiff  and  1-2  cup 
sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  Strawberries  may  be 

used  in  the  same  way.  Mrs.  Berr. 

i 

SLICED  APPLE  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  paste,  fill  with  sliced  apples,  sprinkle 
with  1-2  cup  sugar  that  has  been  mixed  with  i  large  spoonful 
of  flour.  Add  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  2  spoons  of  cold  water,  a 
few  bits  of  butter,  cover  with  crust,  brush  over  with  milk 
and  bake. 

MOCK    MINCE    PIE. 

One  cup  whole  seeded  raisins,  i  cup  good  vinegar,  not  too 
strong,  i  cup  each  sugar,  molasses  and  rolled  crackei,  i  tea- 
spoon each  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon.  This  amount  makes 
3  good  pies,  and  to  each  pie  add  i  large  tablespoon  butter. 

Mrs    McGillivrav. 


DESSERTS 

*The  turnpike    road  to  people's  hearts,  I  find 
Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind." 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Half  package  gelatine,  1-2  pint  water,  i  teaspoon  butter, 
pinch  of  salt,  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  i  pint  of  milk  or  cream, 
3  cups  grated  cocoanut,  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water,  mix 
all  together,  a.Kl  cook  in  a  double  boiler.  Cool  in  moulds  and 
serve  with  sauce.  Miss  Brown. 

LEMON"    PUDDING. 

(  )ne  pint  of  boiling  water,  1-2  package  gelatine,  4  eggs,  2 
cups  sugar,  juice  of  3  lemons.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  1-2 
cup  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 
Strain  and  when  nearly  solid,  stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Use  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  for  a  sauce. 

Miss  Robertson. 

PEACH    SNOW. 

Half  cup  sugar,  i  cup  cream  stirred  into  the  sugar  until 
dissolved,  then  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  stiff, 
place  i  qt.  sliced  peaches  in  a  dish  sprinkled  with  powdered 
sugar,  pour  the  cream  mixture  over  it  and  serve  at  once.  All 
the  ingredients  should  be  thorough!}'  chilled. 

Mrs.  Campbell. 

STUFFED  PRUixES. 

Select  about  2  dozen  large  prunes,  boil  with  1-2  cup  sugar 
and  plenty  of  water  for  i  hour,  drain  and  when  cool  remove 
the  pits  and  stuff  with  walnuts.  Just  before  ready  to  serve, 
pour  whipped  cream  over  the  prunes.  Ethel  M.  Langford. 


HANSON  &  NOE 

REAL  ESTATE,  INSURANCE  AND 
LOAN  BROKERS 


OFFICE:   631  THIRD  STREET,  EUREKA,  CAL. 
TELEPHONE  MAIN  941 


"What's  a   table   richly   spread   without    a   woman    at    its 
head. " 

112  DESSERTS 


PINEAPPLE    SAGO. 

Cook  2  tablespoons  sago  in  3  cups  water  until  clear,  add  I 
cup  or  more  of  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  ard  a  can  of  shredded 
pineapple.  Take  from  the  stove  and  beat  in  the  whipped 
whites  of  2  eggs,  cool  in  mould.  Miss  Bertha  Brown. 

PINEAPPLE   CREAM. 

One  quart  whipped  cream,  11-2  cups  powdered  sugar,  2-3 
of  a  package  of  gelatine,  and  i  can  of  grated  pineapple. 

BAVARIAN   CREAM. 

One  quart  milk,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon 
gelatine ;  heat  the  milk,  stir  in  the  yolks  and  sugar,  cook  five 
minutes,  stir  in  the  dissolved  gelatine,  remove  immediately 
from  the  stove  and  when  cool  and  partly  set,  stir  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  6  eggs  and  add  any  fruit  desired. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Jones. 

CARAMEL    PUDDING. 

One  tablespoon  gelatine  dissolved  in  i  cup  hot  water, 
whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff,  i  cup  of  sugar  added  slowly, 
juice  of  one  lemon,  and  a  part  of  the  rind  grated,  add  the  hot 
gelatine  slowly,  beat  until  solid,  pile  on  a  platter  and  cool. 
Sauce:  Make  a  custard  of  the  3  yolks  and  i  pint  of  milk 
with  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Mrs.  W  .J.  Crane. 

SPANISH    CREAM. 

One-third  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  3-4  qt.  of  milk, 
when  boiling  stir  in  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  3-4  cup 
of  sugar,  and  when  cooked  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs, 
flavor  and  cool  in  a  mould.  Miss  Bertha  Brown. 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM 

"When  reason  rules,  appetite  obeys ; 

When  appetite    commands,  the  pocket  pays." 

PLAIN  ICE  CREAM. 

One  qt.  milk,  i  pint  cream,  i  1-2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  flour  (level),  1-4  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons 
vanilla,  mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  add  the  sugar  and 
salt,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  strain  into  the  boiling 
milk,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  When  the  custard  is  thor- 
oughly cold,  add  the  cream,  flavoring,  whites  of  the  eggs 
whipped  very  stiff  and  more  sugar  if  desired.  When  eggs  are 
very  expensive,  use  a  little  more  flour  and  keep  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  for  salad  dressing.  If  the  yellows  of  the  eggs  ar 
omitted,  use  a  little  butter. 

PLAIN    ICE    CREAM. 

Two  quarts  rich  milk,  11-2  pints  cream,  11-2  cups  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  vanilla,  pinch  of  sab",  3  eggs. 
Put  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  when  hot,  stir  in  the  sugar  and 
flour  thoroughly  mixed,  then  the  eggs  well  oeaten  and  cook 
until  the  consistency  of  cream,  strain  through  a  gravy 
strainer  and  when  cool  add  cream  and  vanilla  and  freeze. 

Mrs.    B.    M.    Lyons. 

When  heating  milk  for  any  mixture  that  requires  sugar, 
put  the  sugar  into  the  cold  milk  first,  and  it  will  prevent 
scorching. 

We  are  not  tKe  largest 

But  we  are  the  Best  and  tHe  Cheapest 

Place  to  trade  all  the  year  round.  Our  g-oods  are  reliable,  our 
prices  are  absolutely  rigfht,  and  our  styles  the  latest.  Our 
specialties  are  Dress  Goods,  Silks,  Fancy  Goods,  Hosiery, 
Underwear  and  Corsets,  Tailor  Suits,  Skirts,  Shirtwaists, 
Coats,  etc.  , 

THE   WHITE    HOUSE 

323  F  STREET  EUREKA,  CAL. 


'  'Love  never  dies  of  starvation,  but  often  of  indigestion." 

114  ICES  AND   ICE  CREAM 

--  ___  —  .  -  j  - 

LEMON    ICE    CREAM. 

Three  pints  thick  cream  whipped  until  light,  whites  of  8 
eggs  beaten  stiff,  1-2  cup  lemon  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons,  3  small  cups  powdered  sugar.  Mix  the  cream  and 
sugar,  freeze  ten  minutes,  add  the  whites  of  eggs  and  the 
lemon.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

BANANA    ICE    CREAM., 

Two  quarts  milk,  i  qt.  cream,  10  eggs  separated,  3  cups 
sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  vanilla,  1-2  doz.  bananas,  very  ripe, 
sliced  very  thin,  use  evaporated  cream.  Mrs.  J.  P.  Monroe. 

BAKED    APPLE    ICE  CREAM. 

Bake  and  put  through  a  potato  masher  6  or  8  nice  sweet 
apples,  add  i  1-2  cups  of  sugar  to  the  hot  apples.  The  tartness 
of  the  apples  will  make  a  great  difference  in  the  quantity  of 
sugar.  When  cold  add  i  qt.  thick  cream,  more  sugar  if  de- 
sired, lemon  extract,  and  freeze  in  the  usual  way.  Mrs.  H. 

STRAWBERRY   ICE   CREAM. 

Sprinkle  2  cups  of  white  sugar  over  2  qts.  strawberries, 
mash,  and  let  stand  for  2  hours,  squeeze  through  a  cheese 
tloth,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  freeze  3  pints  of  thin  cream  or  rich 
milk  to  a  mush,  add  the  fruit  juice  gradually  and  continue 
freezing.  In  freezing  use  four  parts  crushed  ice  to  one  part 
half  ground  rock  salt.  Mrs.  W.  K.  Strong. 

LEMON    WATER    ICE. 

One  quart  water,  i  pint  sugar,  juice  of  6  lemons,  i  spoon- 
ful gelatine  dissolved.  Mrs.  H.  J.  Bridges. 


SAMOA,  CAL. 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 

Groceries,  Flour,  Feed,   Powder,  Caps  and  Fuse 

Agents  Queen  Anne  Flour 
Write  or  Phone  Us  for  Prices  MAIN    165 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM'  us 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  6  cups  water,  boil  3  minutes, 
cool,  add  the  juice  of  4  lemons  strain  through  a  thin  cloth  into 
i  can  of  shredded  pineapple.  When  partly  frozen,  add  the 
beaten  white  of  i  egg.  Ida  E.  Davis. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Two  quarts  water,  2  1-2  cups  sugar,  boil  together  twenty 
minutes,  add  11-2  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  water.  When  cool  add  i  can  shredded  pineapple 
and  the  juice  of  6  limes  or  4  lemons.  When  half  frozen  add 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Gilmore. 

PINEAPPLE   SHERBET. 

One  quart  sugar,  i  quart  water,  2  tablespoons  gelatine, 
boil  to  a  syrup  stirring  often.  Pour  the  hot  mixture  over  I 
can  of  grated  pineapple.  When  ready  to  freeze  add  the  juice 
of  3  lemons  and  enough  water  to  make  about  3  qts.  When  half 
frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  This  makes  i  gallon. 

Mrs.  O.  Wi  Lord. 

ORANGE    ICE. 

Juice  of  4  oranges,  juice  of  4  lemons,  2  cups  sugar,  i  pint 
water,  strain  altogether.  Freeze  until  stiff,  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs  and  stir  until  it  foams  way  up. 

Mrs.    Berr. 


Tell  Us 

Are  you  prejudice  against  canned  goods?  Would 
you  like  a  brand  of  fruits  and  vegetables  better 
than  you  can  put  up?  Better  raw  material,  better 
quality,  more  scientific  handling,  would  you 
appreciate  these  things? 

White  labor,  absolute  cleanliness — Try 

Red  Ribbon"  Grade  Goods 

The  very  finest  fruit  and  vegetables,  hand  picked 
and  hand  sorted  for  size,  color  and  flavor. 
Preserved  without  adulteration  or  artificial 
coloring — they  are  pure  food  products,  no 
matter  what  the  test.  If  you  want  the  best, 
here  it  is.  ALL  GROCERS 


Universal  Stoves  and  Ranges 

to  obtain  the  best  results  from  these 
receipts  you  should  use  a 

Universal 

For  Sale  at 

Buhne's  Big  Stores 

Headquarters  for  everything  in 

Cooking  Utensils 

422  First  Street  and  411    Second  Street 
Phone  Main  29  and  564 


CAKES 

"In  general,  mankind,  since  the  improvement  of  cookery, 
eat  about  twice  as  much  as  nature  requires." 

ANGEL   CAKE. 

Whites  of  ii  eggs,  i  1-2  cups  granulated  sugar,  i  cup  flour, 
i  level  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  i  scant  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
the  eggs  very  stiff,  sift  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  together 
4  times,  add  the  sugar  lightly  to  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the 
flour  gently  and  vanilla.  Do  not  stop  beating  until  the  cake  is 
in  the  pan,  which  must  be  one  that  has  never  been  greased. 
Bake  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  invert  the 
pan  on  2  saucers  so  that  the  air  will  pass  under  and  around 
them,  and  when  cold  cut  around  the  edges  with  a  knife  and 
remove.  Mrs.  Buchanan. 

L  :    . 

SUNSHINE    CAKE. 

Yolks  of  14  eggs,  whites  of  3,  4  tablespoons  ice  water, 
i  1-4  cups  sugar  sifted  4  times,  1-2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
1-4  teaspoon  soda,  i  cup  flour  4  times  sifted,  pinch  of  salt, 
lemon  extract.  Beat  the  yolks  about  half,  then  add  the  ice 
water  and  beat  until  thick,  add  sugar,  beat  slightly,  then  the 
flour  with  which  was  sifted  the  cream  tartar  and  soda. 
Lastly  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  flavoring. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  M'cMillan. 

WE  SHALL  ALWAYS  TRY 
TO     SERVE    YOU    WELL 

Our  Stock  is  Men's  Wear 

McNAMARA'S,  Inc. 

F  Street,  at  Second 


"Economy  is  the  easy  cheer  of  old  age. 
118  CAKES 


MOONSHINE    CAKE. 

Seven  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  water,  i  cup  of  flour 
sifted  3  times  with  3-4  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  i  teaspoon 
corn  starch,  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  to  a 
thread,  turn  it  into  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  stir  until 
cool,  ad'd  the  beaten  yolks  and  the  flour.  Bake  in  an  ungreased 
pan  for  40  minutes  or  more  in  a  slow  oven.  Cool  and  remove 
as  angel  cake.  Miss  Robertson. 

SPONGE    CAKE. 

Three  ,eggs,  i  1-2  'cups  sugar,  1-2  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  eggs  i 
minute,  add  sugar,  beat  5  minutes,  add  milk,  1-2  the  flour, 
beat  i  minute,  add  flour,  baking  powder  sifted  together,  and 
flavoring  and  beat  i  minute.  Mrs.  Weatherby. 

LOAF    SPONGEX  CAKE. 

F*our  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  even  cup  sifted  flour,  i  table- 
spoon cold  water,  1-2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1-2  a  lemon. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar,  add  the  water,,  then 
the  flour,  then  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  lemon 
juice,  grated  rind  and  baking  powder.  Bake  1-2  hour. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  McGeorge. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
4  eggs,  lemon  extract,  3-4  cup  boiling  water.  Sift  together 
sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder,  add  the  well  beaten  eggs, 
then  the  extract,  and  the  boiling  water  last.  This  may  seem 
too  thin,  but  makes  a  very  nice  cake.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Herrick. 

VELVET    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  2  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  scant  1-2  cup  boiling  water.  Sift  the  flour,  sugar 
and  baking  powder,  add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  and  the  boiling 
water  last  gradually.  Bake  in  a  buttered  tin. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Langford. 


CAKES  119 


ENGLISH    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  3  scant  cups  sugar,  4  cups  sifted  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  salt  and  flavoring.  Beat  the  eggs  for 
2  minutes,  reserving  the  white  for  frosting,  add  sugar,  beat  5 
minutes,  add  2  cups  flour,  beat  2  minutes,  then  add  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt  and  beat  3  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Tappendorf. 

ORANGE    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  heaping  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, i  orange,  1-2  cup  hot  water.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  sift 
together  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder,  mix  and  add  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  orange,  at  last  the  hot  water. 

Mrs.    J.  P.  Campton. 

CREAM    SPONGE   CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  1-2 
teaspoon  soda,  2  eggs,  thick  cream.  Sift  together  sugar,  flour, 
cream  tartar  and  soda,  break  the  eggs  in  a  cup,  fill  it  up  with 
sweet  cream,  add  flavoring,  and  beat  all  well. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Robinson,  Philadelphia,  Penn. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE. 

One  scant  cup  butter,  3  cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  whites  of 
12  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  cup  corn  starch,  3  cups 
sifted  flour,  flavoring.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  ths 
milk,  then  the  beaten  whites,  then  sift  together  and  gradually 
add  the  flour,  corn  starch  and  baking  powder.  Add  the  flavor- 
ing and  beat  all  thoroughly.  Put  in  a  large  buttered  tin  lined 
with  buttered  letter  paper,  and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate 
oven.  This  is  a  delicious  fine  grained  cake.  Cover  the  top 
with  icing.  Mrs.  R.  J.  Baker. 

BIRTHDAY     CAKE. 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  11-2  cups  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  1-2 
cup  milk,  2  cups  sifted  flour,  1-4  cup  corn  starch,  i  teaspoon 
baking  powder,'  flavoring.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar, 
beat  the  butter  separately  until  like  cream,  add  it  and  beat 
well,  then  the  milk,  and  the  flour,  corn  starch  and  baking  pow- 
der sifted  together.  Mrs.  Tappendorf. 


"We  increase  our  wealth  irhcii  ire  lessen  our  desires." 
120  CAKES 

WHITE    CAKE. 

One  scant  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  milk,  2  scant 
cups  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  3 
eggs.  Cream  the  sugar,  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  sifted  together  and  last  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3 
eggs.  Mrs.  S.  H.  Ross. 

WHITE   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  6  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  i 
cup  corn  starch,  flavoring.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add 
the  milk,  flour,  corn  starch,  baking  powder  and  salt  sifted 
together,  flavoring,  and  lastly  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  If  preferred  use  2  more  cups  flour  instead  of  the 
corn  starch.  A  gold  cake  can  be  made  by  using  the  yolks. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  McLaren. 

FAVORITE    CAKE. 

• 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  i  cup  .sugar,  i  1-2  cups  flour,  .+ 
eggs,  i  tablespoon  milk,  i  scant  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  and  beat  until  very  light, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  the  baking 
powder  thoroughly  with  the  flour,  add  a  little  of  the  flour  to 
the  cake  mixture,  beat  until  smooth,  add  milk,  then  alter- 
nately the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the  flour.  F>ake  in 
a  pan  lined  with  buttered  paper  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  is 
much  like  pound  cake,  and  will  keep  three  or  four  weeks. 
Sliced  citron  may  be  added  if  liked.  Mrs.  John  Kingston. 

We  are  Local  Agents 

for  the  famous  line  of 
CLAUSS  SHEARS  and  RAZORS 

Every  article  carries  a  gilt-edge  guarantee 

C  O.  LINCOLN  &  CO. 

226-230  F  Street,  Eureka,  Cal. 


CAKES  m 

PLAIN    CAKE. 

Half  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  lemon  extract  3  eggs.  Separate 
the  eggs,  beat  very  light,  and  add  to  the  batter  last. 

Mrs.  Jess  Bacon. 

VANILLA  CAKE. 

(  hie  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  1-2  cup  corn 
starch.  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2 
teaspoons  vanilla.  Mrs.  Swithenbank. 

LIGHTNING    CAKE. 

Three  tablespoons  butter,  milk,  2  eggs,  I  cup  sugar  I  cup 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  cup. 
break  in  eggs,  fill  cup  with  milk,  sift  together  the  flour,  sugar 
and  baking  powder,  and  beat  all  together.  This  makes  three 
layers.  .  Mrs.  Robert  Holmes. 

DOVER  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  6  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  flavoring. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  breaking  in  the  eggs  2  at  a 
time,  beat  5  minutes  between  each  adding. 

Mrs.  George  Langford. 

SOFT   POUND  CAKE. 

Two  cups  butter.  2  1-4  cups  sugar,  5  cups  flour,  5  eggs,  i 
cup  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder-,  3  teaspoons  lemon,  2 
teaspoons  vanilla.  Spices  may  be  used  instead  of  the  flavoring. 

Mrs.  Ansel    D.  Hannah. 

CORN     STARCH    CAKE. 

Two  cups    sugar,    2-3  cup  butter,  whites  of  4  eggs,  i  cup 
milk,  i  cup  corn  starch,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tar- 
tar, i  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract.    Bake  3-4  of  an 
hour  in  a  steady  oven.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Starbird. 


' 

"All  service  is  the  same  with  God;  there  is  no  last  or  first." 
122  CAKES 

FEATHER    CAKE. 

One  scant  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  i  egg,  1-2  cup 
milk,  i  heaping  cup  flour,  1-2  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  flavor.  Mrs.  John  E.  Shields. 

SOUR  MILK  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  i  cup  sour  milk, 
i  level  teaspoon  soda,  flour,  spices  to  taste,  fruit  if  desired. 

Mrs.  A.  Bacon. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  11-2  cups  apple 
sauce,  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  chopped  raisins,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
spice  to  taste.  This  keeps  like  a  fruit  cake. 

Miss  Hattie  Gates. 

POTATO  CARAMEL  ~AKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  hot 
mashed  potato,  1-2' cup  sweet  milk,  4  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  i  cup  grated  chocolate,  i  cup  chopped  nuts,  1-2  tea- 
spoon cloves,  i  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Cream,  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  milk,  pota- 
toes, spices  and  chocolate.  Sift  the  baking  powder  in  with 
the  flour,  beat  the  batter  well,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  the  nuts  last.  This  makes  a  large  loaf. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Gilmore.  . 


Diamond  Fruit  Company 

(Incorporated ) 

Wholesale  Dealers  in  all  Kinds  of 

Green  and  Dried  Fruits,  Etc. 

Potatoes,  Poultry,  Eggs,  Honey,  Beans,  Onions,  Butter,  Cheese 
Phone  Main  49  41 4-1 6  F  St.',  Eureka,  Cal. 


CAKES  123 


COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i 
cup  strong  cold  coffee,  i  egg,  i  tablespoon  cloves,  i  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  i  nutmeg,  i  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  4  or  5 
cups  flour,  i  Ib.  of  raisins.  Bake  I  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Starbird. 

I  ' 

DEVIL'S   CAKE. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  1-4  cup  butter,  i  tablespoon  mo- 
lasses, 3  eggs,  i  level  teaspoon  soda,  6  tablespoons  chocolate, 
i  cup  boiling  water,  i  3-4  cups  flour.  Dissolve  the  chocolate 
in  the  boiling  water.  Mrs.  fred  Barnum. 

DEVIL'S    FOOD. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  1-2  cup  boiling  water,  1-2  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  boiling  water.  Bertha  Brown. 

i  3  /";  &- 

DEVIL'S  CAKE. 

Part  i  :  i  cup  brown  sugar,  2-3  cup  Baker's  chocolate, 
1-2  cup  milk,  Melt  over  the  teakettle  and  add  to 

Part  2:  One  cup  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda. 

Bake  in  layers  and  fill  wih  cooked  frosting.  Boil  i  cup 
sugar  and  1-3  cup  water  until  it  will  hair  from  a  fork  and 
pour  while  hot  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and 
beat  until  cold.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

FILLING    FOR   DEVIL'S    CAKE. 

Half  cup  ground  walnuts,  1-2  cup  milk;  let  this  come  to  a 
boil  and  add  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten,  and  sweeten  to  taste 
and  flavor  as  liked  and  pour  onto  the  well  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs.  Mrs.  Buchanan. 

WHITE   CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  milk,  11-2  cups 
flour,  whites  of  4  eggs,  i  heaped  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
flavoring.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  then  the 
flour,  and  baking  powder  sifted  together  6  times,  and  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  froth.  Mrs.  O.  W.  Lord. 


"The  woman  who  never  makes  mistakes  loses  a  great  many 
chances  to  learn  something.  " 

124  CAKES 


YELLOW    CAKE. 

Yolks  of  7  eggs,  i  large  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  milk,  2  table- 
spoons butter,  i  1-2  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  baking  pow- 
der, vanilla.  Stir  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together  for  ten 
minutes,  sift  in  the  baking  powder  and  flour,  then  add  the  milk 
and  beat  5  minutes.  Bake  either  in  loaves  or  layers. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Crane. 
GOLD    CAKE. 

Two  whole  eggs,  yolks  of  8  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  11-2  cups 
butter,  4  cups  flour,  3  cups  sugar,  i  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar,  citron.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately,  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour,  soda 
and  cream  tartar  sifted  together,  then  the  sliced  citron,  and 
currants  if  liked.  Mrr.  C.  B.  Frost. 

WHITE    CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  i  cup  corn  starch.  2  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1-2  teaspoon 
soda,  7  eggs  (whites). 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  milk  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  last.  This  makes  3  layers. 

Filling:  Cook  until  it  will  rope  i  cup  sugar,  5  table- 
spoons boiling  water,  and  just  before  removing  it  from  the 
fire  drop  in  1-2  Ib.  of  marshmallows  broken  in  small  pieces, 
and  whip  the  mixture  into  the  white  of  i  egg. 

Mrs.  I.  A.  Russ. 


J.  A.  flEISER 

Scenic 
and  Commercial  Photographer 

A  COLLEGE  OF  PHOTOGRAPHY 

Eureka,  Cal. 


CAKES  125 

ORANGE   CAKE. 

Five  eggs,  2.  cups  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  2  1-2  cups  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1-2  cup  water,  i  orange. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  separate  and  beat  the  eggs, 
sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  mix  in  the  usual 
way,  adding  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  orange,  saving 
the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  I  tablespoon  of  orange  juice  for  the 
icing.  Mrs.  W.  W.  Warren,  Tomah. 

CUSTARD    CAKE. 

( )ne  cup  sugar,  11-2  cups  flour,  i  heaped  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt,  4  eggs,  8  tablespoons'  cold  water. 

Sift  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  4  times, 
beat  the  eggs  separately,  add  the  cold  water,  beat  all  together. 
I  lake  in  2  layers  in  a  quick  oven,  split  while  hot  and  fill  with 
the  made  cream. 

Filling :  One  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  eggs,  2  cups 
of  milk,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cook  and  cool  slightly.  This 
rule  makes  a  good  jelly  role.  H.  H. 

LAYER    CAKE. 

One  and  a  half  cups  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  butter,  1-2  cup  milk. 

Sift  tlour,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  2 
eggs  beaten  with  the  melted  butter  and  the  milk  last.  Flavor- 
'.ng.  Mrs.  George  Taylor. 

\VELLESLEY    FUDGE    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  2  1-2 
cups  flour,  i  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1-4  cup  choco- 
late, 1-2  cup  walnuts. 

Cream  ,£he  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  then  stir  in  the 
flour  sifted  with  the  backing  powder,  melted  chocolate, 
coarsely  broken  nuts  and  last  the  eggs  beaten  separately. 

Frosting:  One  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter,  1-2  cup  un- 
sweetened cocoa,  i  1-4  cups  powdered  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1-4 
cup  milk,  1-2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  8  minutes,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  beat  to  a  cream.  "Examiner  Cook  Book." 


"  What  and  hon-  the  virtue  and  the  art 
To  lire  on  little,  with  a  cheerful  heart. " 

126  CAKES 


WALNUT  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  i  cup  milk.  3  caps 
flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  1-2  cups  chopped  nuts,  1-2 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  1-2  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  milk,  then  • 
the  well  beaten  eggs,  then  the  baking  powder  and  flour,  and] 
lastly  the  nuts.  Bake  in  dripping  pan.  When  done,  frost  and] 
put  on  half  walnut  meats.  Mrs.  E.  A.  Beverly. 

WALNUT     CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  milk,  about] 
21-2  cups  flour,  2  heaped  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  large] 
cup  walnut  meats,  strawberry  extract. 

Separate    and  beat  the  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  3  for . 
frosting,  chol  the  nuts  with  a  meat  grinder.    Cream  the  outter 
and  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  part  of  the  flour,  then  the  milk,    the 
rest  of  the  flour,  and  the  nuts  last.     Bake  in  a  large  dripping 
pan. 

Frosting:  Boil     i  cup  of  sugar  and    1-3  cup  water  und!  ill 
will  hair  from  the  end  of  a  fork,  pour  in    while  boiling  into  the 
well  beaten    whites  of    3  eggs  and  continue  to  beat  until  r 
Spread  upon  the  cake,  mark  "off  into  squares,  putting  a  half  of 
a  nut  meat  on  each  square. 

Mrs.  P.  B.  Turnbull,  Leadville,  Col. 

NUT    CAKE. 

Three  scant    cups  sugar,    2-3  cup  butter,  4  eggs,    1-2  cup 
milk,    1-2  cup  wTater,    i  heaped    cup  walnut  meats,  4  1-2  cups 
flour,    21-2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  i 
teaspoon     nutmeg,     2  tablespoons  vanilla,  1-4  teaspoon  soda, 
pinch  of  salt.  Mrs.  E.  J.  Chapman. 


I.  S.  Mulford,  Proprietor 
621  Fifth  Street,  Eureka,  Cal. 


CAKES  127 

NUT  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1-2  cup  milk,  i  1-2 
cups  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  large  cup 
chopped  walnuts. 

Bake  in  a  flat   pan,  marking  squares,  putting  nut  on  each. 

Miss  Bonnickson. 

WALNUT    CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  i  scant  cup  sour 
milk,  yolks  of  -5  eggs,  i  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  i  Ib. 
raisins,  i  Ib.  English  walnuts,  i  teaspoon  cloves,  i  teaspoon 
cinnamon.  Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

QUEEN'S    TEA    CAKE. 

(  )ne  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  piece  of  butter,  2  cups  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  i  cup  milk,  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

I  Seat  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  beaten  egg,  then  milk, 
and  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  flavor  and  bake  in 
2  layers. 

Filling:  Boil  i  cup  sugar  and  1-2  cup  water  until  it 
threads  and  pour  over  the  beaten  white  of  i  egg,  add  flavor- 
ing and  \vhi-n  cool  spread  on  cake.  G.  W. 

MARBLE    CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  3  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i 
teaspoon  baking  powder,    1-2  teaspoon  soda. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and 
the  milk,  and  beat  in  the  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and 
soda. 

For  the  dark  part  take  out  1-3  of  the  dough,  add  to  it  1-2 
cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon  all  kinds  of  spices  and  i  cup  flour. 

Mrs.  John  L.  Shields. 

WASHINGTON   CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  1-3  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk,  1-2 
teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  11-3  cups  flour,  flav- 
oring. Bake  in  2  round  tins,  spread  with  apple  sauce  or  any 
other  fruit,'  and  cover  the  top  layer  with  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.    F.  E.  Herrick. 


"A  woman  without  religion— a  flower  without  perfume." 
128  CAKES 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

Half  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  melted  chocolate, 
2  eggs,  1-2  cup. milk,  11-2  cups  sifted  flour,  i  heaped  teaspoon 
baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  chocolate  melted  in 
hot  water;  add  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  beat  the  whole  five 
minutes.  Add  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Beat 
well  until  very  light.  Bake  in  a  loaf  ana  make  a  dfouble 
icing  as  follows:  Boil  5  minutes  and  stir  until  it  creams  I 
cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  milk,  piece  of  butter  and  vanilla.  Spread 
upon  the  cake  and  cover  with  chocolate,  piece  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg  melted  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Elsmore. 

RIBBON    CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  milk,  4  eggs,  4 
scant  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  teaspoons 
lemon  extract. 

'  Take  out  1-3  of  the  mix^g^e  for  the  fruit  layer,  add  2  cups 
raisins  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  1-2  teaspoon 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg.  This  rule  makes  3 
layers,  2  of  white  and  the  dark  one  for  the  center.  Put  to- 
gether with  currant  jelly.  Mrs.  Hannah. 

WORLD'S    FAIR   CAKE. 

This  should  be  baked  in  a  flat  pan,  so  that  the  cake  when 
done  will  be  about  11-2  inches  thick  and  should  be  covered 
with  2  frostings. 

One  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder  ,3  eggs,  1-2  cup  chocolate. 

Melt  together  and  add  to  the  batter  the  grated  chocolate,  3 
teaspoons  sugar  -and  3  tablespoons  milk. 

First  frosting:  Two  cups  sugar,  small  piece  butter,  3-4 
cup  milk,  boil  together  about  4  minutes,  beat  until  cool  and 
spread  on  cake. 

Second  frosting :  Two  cups  grated  chocolate,  piece  of 
butter,  1-2  cup  milk.  Melt  all  together  and  spread  roughly  on 
the  cake  while  warm.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Edson,  Fortuna. 


CAKES  129 


MAHOGANY    CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  11-2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  1-2  cup  milk, 
21-2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  soda,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  i  cup 
grated  chocolate,  boiled  with  1-2  cup  milk. 

Filling:  One  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  milk,  boil  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  small  piece  of 
butter  and  4  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  bet  in  a  dish  of 
hot  water  if  it  hardens  too  soon.  Clara  Bacon. 

APPLE  CAKE. 

Three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  i  eggs,  I-A 
cup  milk,  21-2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i 
teaspoon  lemon. 

Bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  i  cup  grated  apple,  white  of 
one  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  i  cup  of  sugar.  Mix  together 
but  not  cook.  Mrs.  Logan. 

ELECTION   CAi^E. 

Three  cups  milk,  i  pint  potato  yeast,  2  cups  sugar,  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter,  let  it  rise  overnight. 

In  the  morning  add  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  butter,  2  eggs,  2 
nutmegs,  1-2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  i  Ib.  raisins,  I-  •'. 
Ib.  citron ;  dredge  the  fruit  with  flour  and  add  just  before 
baking. 

CRACKEK    CAKE. 

One  cup  chopped  walnuts,  .1  cuffe  raisins,  1-2  cup  citron, 
i  cup  chocolate,  i  cup  butter,  i  1-2  cups  rolled  crackers, 
i  1-2  cups  sugar,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  4  tablespoons 
milk,  7  eggs.  Mrs.  Loldwell. 

CRACKER    LAYER    CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  i  small  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  chocolate,  i  heaped 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  1-2  cup  walnuts,  vanilla  extracf, 
pinch  of  salt. 

Cream  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites,  add  the  grated  chocolate,  cracker  dust,  baking  powder, 
chopped  walnuts,  and  salt.  Bake  in  2  layers  and  when  cool 
fill  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Elsmore. 


4lln  order  to  manage  children   well,  we   must  borrow  their 
eyes  and  ears. " 

130  CAKES 


LEMON   LAYER   CAKE. 

TV  nail  cups  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  3-4  cup  milk,  3 
cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Filling :  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
1-2  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar.  Mix  together  and  cook  in  a 
double  kettle.  Mrs.  G.  C.  Jones. 

HOLIDAY    CAKE. 

One  cup  shortening,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup      molasses,  I  tea- 
spoon salt,  citron,  i  teaspoon     ail  kind  of  spices,  1-2  cup  of 
water,  i  teaspoon  soda,  flour,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup  currants. 
Mix  K     ter  in  the    usual    way  making  it  quite  thick  with 
r,  anc   *dd  the  fruit  last.      This    makes    2   medium    sized 
loaves  ana  will  keep  for  weeks.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Weatherby. 

NUT    CREAM    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar  ,  1-2  cup  water,  1-2  cup  molasses,  1-2  cup 
butter,  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  walnuts,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i 

cup  raisins,  i  teaspoon  cloves,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg,  2  teaspoons 
cinnamon. 

Baking  is  the  principal  thing,  which  should  require  about 
one  hour.  Miss  Robertson. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

One  •;_:'  flour,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  7  eggs,  1-2  cup 
-  .asses,  -.-2  teaspoon  soda,  1-2  Ib.  citron,  i  Ib.  raisins,  i  Ib. 
currants,  i  Ib.  blanched^lmonds,  i  tablespoon  nutmeg,  i  tea- 
spoon cloves,  and  5  drops  essence  almonds. 

Mrs.  Starbird. 


OSTEOPATH 

Dr.  A.  Barbara  Gasser 

Osteopathic  Physician 

Office  and  residence,  1 022  E  street,  Eureka 
Phone  Main  885 


CAKES  131 

CHRISTMAS    FRUIT    CAKE. 

Three  cups  butter,  i  qt.  sugar,  3  pints  flour,  1-2  pint  mo- 
lasses, 1-2  cup  milk,  12  eggs,  5  Ibs.  raisins,  2  Ibs.  currants,  3-4 
Ib.  citron,  i  1-2  Ibs.  walnuts.  Cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and 
mace  to  taste. 

Flour  the  fruit  well  and  add  it  to  the  batter  last.    Bake    in 
p  deep  pans  in  a  moderate  oven  3  or  4  hours.    This  makes  4  or 
5  good  sized  loaves  and  will  keep  for  years. 

Mrs.  William    McGillivray. 

SCRIPTURE    CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

4  1-2  cups  flour 
3  cups  sugar 

2  cups  raisins 
2  cups  figs 

i  cup    almonds 

6  eggs 

i  cup  milk 

i  tablespoon  honey 

1  pinch     salt 
Spice  to  taste 

2  teaspoons     cream  tartar 
i  teaspoon  soda. 

Judges  5-25  i  Kings  4-22 

Jeremiah    6-22  i  Sam  30-12 

i  Sam.  30-12  Gen.  43-11 

Isa.  10-14  ^     Judges  5-25 

Ex.  1 6-21  Lev.  11-13 

i  Kings  10-10  Ex.  13-15 

Ex    1 2- is  etaoin  shrdluetaoim 
Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.     Beat  the  whites     and 

yolks  of  eggs  separate.  Reserve  half  cup  of  flour  to  mix  with 

the  fruit. 

NO.    2. 

Make  as  directed  for  No.  I.,  leaving  out  the  fruit,  nuts  and 
spices.    Bake  in  layers.    Fig  filling : 

i  cup  figs  T-2  cup  water 

i  cup  sugar  I   Sam-  3<>i2 

1-2  cup  sugar  Jer-    6'2°- 

Gen.    24-17 

Chop  figs    fine  and  cook    soft  in  water,  then  add  the  sugar. 
Cook  until  thick.       Serve  when  cold. 


•'The  beautiful  is  as  useful  as  the  useful." 
132  CAKES 

SUNSHINE    CAKE. 

Seven  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  pastry  flour,  1-4  teaspoon^ 
cream  tartar,  extract  of  orange,  little  salt. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  cream  of  tartar  4  times,  beat  the 
yolks  light,  beat  in  the  sugar,  then  flour,  and  last  the  well 
whipped  whites  of  the  eggs.  Henrietta  Connick. 

.  APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

N  >      . 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  31-2  cups  flour,  2  cups  raisins,  3  cups  dried 
apples,  2  cups  molasses,  nuts,  spices. 

Soak  the  apples  over  nivdit  and  stew  2  hours  in  the  mo- 
lasses, beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  milk  in  which 
soda  is  dissolved,  then  the  beaten  eggs,  flour,  raisins  and  ap- 
ples. Stir  well,  pour  into  pans,  bake  11-2  hours,  adding  nuts 
and  spices  to  taste.  Mrs.  Fenwick. 

BOILED  RAISIN  eAKE. 

One  and  a  half  cups  seeded  raisins,  cover  with  boiling  wa- 
ter and  let  simmer  20  minutes.  Dredge  with  flour  and  add 
last:  3-4  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  bu'.ter,  i  1-2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  i  egg,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  G.  Walters. 


WASHINGTON  L<F  CAKE. 

Three  cups  sugar,  2  scant  cups  butter,  i  cup  sour  milk,  5 
eggs,  i  teaspoon  soda,  3  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1-2  nutmeg,  2 
cups  raisins,  i  cup  currants,  4  cups  flour. 

Mix  the  batter  in  the  usual  way,  dredge  flour  over  the 
fruit  and  add.it  last.  This  cake  should  bake  slowly  with  the 
heat  of  the  oven  even  temperature.  Miss  Augusta  Jacobson. 

CHEAP    FRUIT    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i  cup 
shortening,  41-2  cups  flour,  i  cup  currants,  i  cup  raisins,  2 
teaspoons  soda,  spice  to  taste,  salt.  Mrs.  Richardson. 


CAKES  133 

PORK  CAKE  (FRUIT). 

One  Ib.  fat  salt  pork,  i  pint  boiling  water,  3  cups  brown 
sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  cloves,  i  Ib.  raisins, 
i  Ib.  currants. 

Run  the  salt  pork  through  a  grinder  and  pour  the  boiling 
water  on  it.  Cheap  and  excellent  to  keep  for  lunches. 

Mrs.  Cummins. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  molasses,  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  teaspoon  ginger, 
mix  to  a  light  golden  brown,  and  add  i  cup  sour  milk,  i  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  31-2  cups  or  less  of 
flour.  This  should  bake  very  slowly  in  a  dripping  pan,  lined 
with  thick  paper.  Try  this  with  cream  for  a  dessert. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Clark. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

Sift  together  1-2  cup  sugar,  2  level  teaspoons  soda,  i  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  ginger,  3  cups  of  flour.  Mix  with 
i  cup  molasses,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  add  i  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  i  cup  boiling  water.  Turn  into  hot  greased 
pans,  well  dusted  with  flour,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Best 
if  eaten  while  hot.  Mrs.  George  Marshall. 

MARSHMALLOW    FILLING 

Is  delicious  with  ginger  bread,  improving  the  old  fashion- 
ed dainty  until  it  is  scarcely  recognizable. 

Boil  1-2  cup  of  sugar,  1-4  cup  water,  add  1-8  of  a  pound 
of  chocolate  until  it  threads.  Dissolve  1-2  Ib.  marshmallows 
in  i  tablespoon  boiling  water,  add  to  the  chocolate  mixture, 
beat  all  together,  and  spread  between  and  on  top  of  ginger 
bread.  Serve  while  fresh.  The  chocolate  may  be  omitted 
.and  chopped  nuts  of  almost  any  kind  used. 

ZELLA'S    GINGER    BREAD. 

Half  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  cup  molasses,  i 
cup  milk,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
i  teaspoon  ginger,  3  cups  flour.  Zella  Langford. 


'  *.L  -t*  —  ^t  the  spurt  at  the  start,  but  the  unhasting,   con- 
tinued advance  that  wins  the  day. " 

134  CAKES 


NUREMBERG  GINGER  BREAD. 

Four  eggs,  I  teaspoon  mace,  1-4  teaspoon  cloves,  1-4  cup 
candied  9  range  peel>  i  cup  sugar,  2  cups  Hour,  1-4  teaspoon 
salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1-2  Ib.  almonds. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light  without  separating,  add  mace, 
cloves,  orange  peel  chopped  fine,  add  gradually  the  sugar, 
and  beat  until  veiy  light,  then  sift  in  the  flour  with  the  salt 
and  baking  powder  and  add  the  almonds  blanched  and  split 
in  half.  Bake  in  .shallow  pans.  B.  C.  B. 

ALMOND    FILLING. 

Blanche  and  pound  fine  2  Ibs.  almonds,  beat  2  eggs 
lightly,  add  to  them  i  1-2  cups  sugar,  and  beat  for  15 
minutes.  Then  stir  in  the  almonds  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

LEMON  FILLING. 

Three-quarters  cup  water,  i  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  little 
flour.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  and  use  only  enough  flour  to 
make  it  about  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  Baker. 

CHOCOLATE   FILLING. 

Mix  confectioner's  sugar  to  a  paste  with  boiling  water, 
add  2  oz.  melted  chocolate  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

CARAMEL    FROSTING. 

Boil  i  cup  of  sugar  and  1-4  of  a  cup  of  water  to  a  thread. 
In  thWmeantime  cook  1-4  of  a  cup  of  sugar  to  the  caramel 
stage,  add  i  or  2  tablespoons  boiling  water  and  continue  to 
cook  until  the  caramel  is  dissolved.  Add  this  to  the  first  and 
cook  until  it  threads  again.  Pour  while  hot  onto  the  beaten 
white  of  i  egg  and  beat  until  cold.  Boston  Cook  Book. 


CAKES  135 

FIG    FILLING. 

Grind  6  dried  figs  and  cook  with  a  little  water  until  the 
proper  consistency,  adding  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  a  little 
lemon  extract.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

APPLE    FILLING. 

Four  large  tart  apples  grated,  i  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of 
a  walnut,  i  tablespoon  flour,  1-2  cup  water,  juice  of  2  lemons, 
grated  rind  of  i  lemon.  Cook  about  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  R.  Berr. 

MOCHA  FILLING. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  yolk  of  i  egg,  2  tablespoons  un- 
sa.lted  butter,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  to  a  cream  and  add 
i  cup  of  strong  coffee  that  has  been  boiled  down  to  2  table- 
spoons. 

STRAWfBERRY    FILLING. 

White  of  i  egg,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  fresh  strawberries 
crushed.  Mix  and  beat  1-2  hour. 

TUTTI    FRUTTI    FILLING. 

Boil  3  cups  of  sugar  and  1-2  cup  water  until  it  threads 
and  pour  while  hot  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
beat  .until  cool,  and  add  1-2  Ib.  chopped  walnuts  and  1-2 
cup  chopped  raisins.  Miss  Robertson 


' 


/  / 


c . 


< 


/     /'       '  '         y^'1 

'  r'Q  ur 

'" 


•.It 


• 


• 


j 


I 


-' 


COOKIES 

"There's  nothing  to  the  wanderer's  taste 

Like   food   where   mother's   hand   is   traced, 
There's  nothing  to  the  wanderer's  look 
Like  food  her  cunning  hand  can  cook." 

COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  i  cup  shortening,  2  eggs,  lemon  ex- 
tract, 2-3  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  to 
roll  out.  Mrs.  A.  Bacon. 

COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  lard, 
2  tablespoons  baking  powder,  3  eggs,  milk,  flour. 

Break  the  eggs  in  a  cup  and  fill  with  milk.  Sift  the  bak- 
ing powder  with  a  sieve  full  of  flour  and  add  flavoring  to 
taste.  Mrs.  M.  C.  McLellan. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  thick  sour  cream,  I  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  i  egg,  flour  to  roll  soft,  lemon  or  nutmeg. 

This  rule  may  be     varied  by  adding  1-2  cup  of  chopped 
nuts  or    raisins  and  spices  to  taste.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Ingley. 

Telephone,  Main  662 

EUREKA  NEWS  COMPANY 

Newspapers,  Magazines,  Books  and  Stationery 
Sole  Ag-ents  for 

San  Francisco  Call,  Chronicle  and  Bulletin 
Saturday  Evening  Post 

Subscriptions  taken  for  all  Periodicals  and  Magazines 

Mail  orders  receive  prompt  attention 

324  F  STREET,   EUREKA,  CAL. 


''Let  us  love  so  well 

Our  work  shall  be  sweeter  for  our  love. 

138  COOKIES 


COOKIES. 

One  quart  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1-2  cup 
butter,  i  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  milk,  vanilla. 
Should  be  mixed  soft.  Mrs.  S.  H.  Ross. 

THANKSGIVING  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  4  cups  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  lemon  extract. 

Cream  together  until  very  light  and  smooth  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  thoroughly  beaten  eggs.  Sift  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  3  times  and  add  it  to  the  batter. 
More  flour  will  be  required  to  make  a  dough  easily  handLd. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Starbird. 

ROCKS. 

One  cup  butter,  11-2  caps  sugar,  3  eggs,  I  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, i  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  vanilla,  3-4  Ib.  chop- 
ped dates,  1-2  Ib.  chopped  walnuts,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  table- 
spoon hot  water,  3  cups  flour. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  hot  water  and  mix  very  stiff. 
Drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  as  cookies. 

Mrs.  George  Walter. 

o 

ROCKS. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  21-2  cups  flour, 
3  eggs,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  tablespoon  hot  water,  3-4  Ib.  dates, 
i  1-2  Ib.  walnuts,  i  teaspO3n  cinnamon,  1-2  teaspoon  allspice, 
vanilla.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake.  Mrs.  Fenwick. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 
•'>'••'•• 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1-2 
teaspoon  soda,  4  eggs,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup  walnuts,  spice  to 
taste.  Flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mrs.  G.  A.  Biord. 


COOKIES  139 


DROP  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  pastry  flour,  1-2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  3-4 
cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter,  i  lemon  (rind),  2  eggs. 

Sift  all  together  the*  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  the,  butter,  beat 
the  eggs,  c.nd  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  mixing  it  to  a  very 
stiff  dough.  If  not  quite  moist  enough,  add  a  little  milk.  Add 
citron,  raisins,  nuts,  cocoanut  or  carraway  seed. 

Mrs.     Condo. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  2. cups  raisins,  2  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda,  1-2  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
1-2  teaspoon  cloves,  1-2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  flour  to  roll 
out.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  •  Mrs.  Dora  Betterley. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  2  eggs,  3-4  cup 
shortening,  2  cups  rolled  oats,  i  cup  raisins,  i  level  teaspoon 
soda,  i  teaspoon  ginger,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon^  flour. 

Run  the  raisins  through  a  grinding  machine  and  use  the 
uncooked  rolled  oats.  They  should  be  rolled  out  quite  stiff. 
These  are  fine  for  children.  Mrs.  Fred  Remmington. 

ROLLED  OAT  COOKIES.      . 

Three  cups  uncooked  rolled  oats,    3  cups  flour,    11-2  cups 
sugar,    i  cup    hot  lard,  i  cup  hot  water,  i  teaspoon    sod^. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  hot  water.    Flavor  and  roll  thin. 

Mrs.   H.  J.  Bridges. 

CEREAL  COOKIES. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  3-4  cup  butter,  2  eggs  (not  beaten), 
i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  cup  of  chopped  rais- 
ins, 2  cups  of  rolled  oats,  2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Gillis,  Elk  Ri^er,  Cal. 

GINGER    COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  light  molasses,  2  eggs, 
1-2  cup  boiling  water,  i  teaspoon  ginger,  1-2  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, salt,  flour  to  roll  out.  Mrs.  Buchanan. 


"Man  may  be  the  head  of  the  family,  but  far  better   than 
that,  woman  is  the  heart  of  it." 

140  COOKIES 


GINGER    SNAPS. 

One  and  a  half  cup  molasses,  i  cup  shortening,  1-2  cup 
brown  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  ginger,  i  teaspoon  soda,  2 
tablespoons  vinegar,  flour. 

Boil  the  molasses  and  when  cool  add  the  shortening,  sugar, 
beaten  eggs,  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  vinegar,  the  ginger  and 
flour.  Roll  out  very  thin.  Mrs.  G.  Y.  Henderson. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup  shortening,  2  eggs, 
i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  ginger,  i  teaspoon  soda, 
little  salt  and  flour. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  use  flour  enough 
to  make  it  pretty  stiff.  Mrs.  A.  Bacon. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  hot  lard,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  i  cup 
hot  water,  i  teaspoon  soda,  flour  to  roll  out,  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
4  teaspoons  ginger,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  ground  raisins,  I 
cup  ground  currants,  i  jup  ground  walnuts.  Mrs.  Logan. 

NUT  WAFERS. 

Four  eggs,  1-2  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  i  pint  chopped  nuts. 

Drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  pans.  It  is  nice  to  divide 
the  dough,  using  half  with  chopped  nuts  and  the  remainder 
with  cocoanuts.  Mrs.  Frank  Liscom,  Jr. 

HERMITS. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  shortening,  3  eggs,  3  table- 
spoons boiling  water,  flour  to  roll  out,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  cloves,  i  nutmeg,  i  cup  raisins. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  McMillan. 

HERMITS. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  3  eggs  i  cup  shortening,  i  cup 
sour  milk,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup  dates,  i  cup  nuts,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  spices  to  taste,  flour  to  make  quite  stiff. 

Drop  on  a  well  greased  pan  with  a  teaspo  n  and  bake. 

Grace  McGeorge. 


COOKIES  HI 

MALTA  VITA   COOKIES. 

Three-quarter  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons buttermilk,  2  cups  flour,  i  1-4  cups  Malta  Vita,  3-4 
teaspoon  soda,  i  cup  raisins. 

Sour  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  buttermilk.  The  raisins 
should  be  chopped,  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream.  Drop  from 
a  teaspoon  onto  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  15  minutes.  Mrs.  Herse. 

NUT  COOKIES. 

One  and  1-2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  shortening,  2  eggs,  1-2 
cup  milk,  1-2  cup  raisins,  1-2  cup  walnuts,  4  cups  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Van  Hovenberg. 

HONEY    COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  11-2  cups  butter,  2  cups  honey,  i  cup  boil- 
ing water,  i  tablespoon  soda,  i  tablespoon  ginger,  flour  to 
mix  soft. 

Let  stand  over  night  or  at  least  until  cold,  then  roll  out 
a  little  thicker  than  for  ginger  snaps. 

Mrs.    H.  W.  Hamilton. 

CHOCOLATE    COOKIES. 

Half  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  salt, 
2  oz.  melted  chocolate,  i  egg,  1-2  teaspoon  soda,  2  table- 
spoons milk,  about  21-2  cups  flour. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  spices  and- 
chocolate,  then  the  well  beaten  egg  and  soda  dissolved  in  milk. 
Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  good  rolling  dough  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Hardy. 

FRUIT    COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  butter,  3  eggs,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup 
currants,  4  cups  flour,  i  cup  walnuts,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  tea- 
spoon cloves,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  3 
tablespoons  milk. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  th~  milk.  Do  not  roll  out,  but  drop 
by  teaspoons  on  buttered  tins.  Mrs.  John  Kingston. 


"Every  moment   of  worry  weakens   the   soul  for  its  daily 
combat. " 

142  COOKIES 


HERMITS. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  i  scant  cup  shortening,  2  eggs,  I 
cup  sour  milk,  i  level  teaspoon  soda,  4  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  1-2  teaspoon  cloves,  nutmeg,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup 
currants,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  O.  Wi.  Lord. 

COCOANUT    COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  butter,  i  egg,  2  tablespoon  milk, 
i  1-2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt,  i  cup  cocoanut,  flour  to 
roll  out.  Grandma  Betterley. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

One  cup  molasses,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  shortening, 
3  eggs,  i  tablespoon  ginger,  i  dessert  spoon  soda,  i  teaspoon 
black  pepper,  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Boil  together  the  molasses,  sugar  and  shortening,  and 
when  cold  add  the  other  ingredients.  Mrs.  F.  C.  Ziegleman. 

BROWN    SUGAR    COOKIES. 

Four  eggs,  2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  4  cups  flour,  i  tea- 
spoon ginger,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  big  cup  butter. 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly.  'Work  the  buter  and  flour  to- 
gether, then  add  the  other  dry  ingredients  and  the  eggs.  Use 
very  little  flour  in  rolling  out. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Warren,  Tomah. 

Office  and  Residence,   720  E  Street 

].  W.  Watenpaugh,  M.  D. 

HOMEOPATHIC 
PHYSICIAN  and  SURGEON 

Hours:     2  to  4  and  7  to  8  p.  m.  Phones      Main  812 

Sundays  by  Appointment  Eureka,'Cal. 


COOKIES  143 


CHOCOLATE    WAFERS. 

One  cup  shortening,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  4  eggs,  i  cup  grated  chocolate,  2  dozen  wal- 
nuts (chopped  fine). 

Cream  the  sugar,  shortening,  then  the  eggs,  chocolate, 
flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  and  lastly  th'e  yolks. 
Roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Frank  Liscom,  Jr. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  egg,  i  cup  milk  (half  cream),  4  large  spoons  sugar, 
salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  to  mix  soft.  These  are 
delicious.  Mrs.  D.  F.  Huntington,  The  Dalles,  Ore. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Sifter  2-3  full  flour,  1-2  cup  sugar,  i  1-2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  salt  and  nutmeg. 

Sift  together  and  add  i  beaten  egg  and  enough  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough,  do  not  knead  the  dough,  roll  out,  cut 
and  fry  and  when  done  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  J.  Falk. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two  eggs,  1-2  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  cream,  i  tablespoon 
butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt,  nutmeg.  Fry  in 

hot  lard.  Mrs.  Rae  Felt. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  butter  size  of  walnuts, 
i  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  i  teaspoon  soda,  cinna- 
mon, salt,  flour  to  roll  out.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Richardson. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar  3  even  tablespoons  lard,  3  eggs, 
i  teaspoon  soda,  i  cup  sour  milk,  salt,  flour. 

Sift  about  a  quart  of  flour  with  the  salt  and  soda,  rub  in 
the  lard,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar,  then  the 
milk,  to  which  has  been  added  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Mix  soft  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Knapp,  Portland,  Ore. 


"To  speak  wisely  may  not  always  be  easy,  but  not  to  speak 
ill  requires  onlj  silence." 

144  COOKIES 


WALNUT    WAFERS. 

Four  eggs,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  6  even  tablespoons  flour, 
2-3  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  chopped  walnuts. 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating,  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
flour  and  salt,  and  last  the  nuts.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  but- 
tered tins,  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  and  cool  slightly  before  taking 
from  the  tins. 

DROP  DOUGHNUTS. 

• 

Two  well  beaten  eggs,  1-2  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  melted 
butter,  2-3  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  into  hot  fat. 

Mrs.  G.,  San  Francisco. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

Pour  i  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  I  pint  of  flour,  stir  and 
when  cool  add  1-2  cup  yeast,  1-2  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt. 
Let  it  rise,  add  4  eggs,  1-2  cup  butter,  1-2  nutmeg,  1-2  tea- 
spoon soda,  1-2  cup  sugar  and  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Mix 
as  you  would  bread,  let  it  stand  until  light,  roll  out  and  cut, 
let  rise  on  a  floured  board  until  light,  and  fry.  This  rule 
makes  6  dozen.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Hardy. 

POP  OVERS. 

Mix  i  cup  of  pastry  flour  and  1-4  teaspoon  salt,  stir  in 
gradually  i  scant  cup  of  milk,  makingasmooth  batter,  add 
2  well  beaten  eggs,  1-2  teaspoon  melted  butter.  Beat  2  min- 
utes, using  an  egg  beater.  Turn  into  hot  buttered  gem  pans 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  25  to  40  minutes. 

Miss  Robertson. 


The  Best  Butter  is  not  to  good  for  you 

GOLDEN  GLOW 
BUTTER 

IS  THE -BEST 


COOKIES  145 

MARGUERITES. 

Two  eggs,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  flour,  1-4  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  1-3  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  Pecan  nut  (chopped). 

Fill  buttered  patty  pans  1-2  full,  place  a  pecan  nut  meat  on 
top  of  each  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  15  minutes. 

Miss     Robertson. 

MARGUERITES. 

Four  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  8  chopped  walnuts,  1-4 
cup  chopped  raisins,  12  crackers. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar,  nuts, 
and  raisins.  Drop  a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  on  each  crack- 
er, put  in  the  oven  and  brown  lightly.  Myrtle  Noe. 

WALNUT   SQUARES. 

Three-quarters  cup  butter,  11-2  cups  sugar,  3  well  beaten 
eggs,  1-2  cup  milk,  21-2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  i  cup  chopped  walnuts,  nutmeg  or  vanilla. 

Bake  in  one  sheet,  when  cool,  cut  into  cubes  and  ice  on 
5  sides  with  boiled  icing  and  flavor  with  lemon. Place  h^alf 
nut  meat  on  each  square.  These  are  very  nice  for  luncheons. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  Baker. 

SNOW    BALLS'. 

One  cup  sugar,  6  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  i  cup 
milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Roll  out,  cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter,  fry  as  you  would 
doughnuts  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar  as  you  take  them  up. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  R.  Berr. 

SPONGE    TRIANGLES. 

Boil  half  cup  sugar  and  1-2  cup  water  to  a  thread,  pour 
onto  3  whole  eggs  and  2  additional  yolks.  Beat  together  till 
thick  and  creamy.  Beat  till  cold,  add  i  tablespoon  lemon 
juice,  and  fold  in  1-2  cup  flour.  Bake  in  small  tins.  Quar- 
ter cup  of  flour  may  be  used  instead  of  the  two  extra  yolks. 

Boston  Cook  Book. 


"What  is  not  needed  is  dear  at  a  farthing. " 
146  COOKIES 

BANBERRY  TARTS. 

Chop  to  a  paste  or  grind  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  i  cup 
dried  figs,  add  1-2  cup  sugar,  grated  peel  of  i  orange,  juice 
of  i  1-2  lemons.  Make  a  rich  pastry,  cut  it  in  squares,  spread 
with  the  fruit  paste,  butter  size  of  a  pea,  moisten  the  edges  of 
the  pastry  with  milk  or  w;.ter.  Fold  over  in  a  triangular 
shape,  press  tightly  together  with  a  fork,  cut  a  small  cross  on 
top  of  each,  brush  over  with  milk  and  bake  as  cookies.  Dates 
may  be  used  instead  of  figs.  Miss  Everding. 

CREAM    PUFFS. 

Eight  tablespoons  flour,  4  tablespoons  lard,  i  pint,  of 
water,  4  eggs. 

.  .  When  the  lard  and  water  boils,  add  the  flour,  beat  until  it 
forms  a  ball,  and  when  cool  beat  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  five  minutes  a  piece.  Set  in  a  warm  place  for  1-2  hour, 
drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins,  let  rise  and  bake.  Fill 
with  made  cream.  Miss  Robertson. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

„  % 

Two  cups  sugar,  11-2  cups  milk,  5  eggs,  3  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  salt  and  flavoring. 

Mix  as  soft  as  possible,  cut  out  and  fry,  and  when  cool 
dip  in  powdered  sugar.  Henrietta  Connick. 

JUMBLES. 

Two  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,    2  tablespoons  milk, 
2  teaspoons  baking    powder,  flavor  with  lemon. 

Dip  in  sugar  before  baking.  Cut  a  hole  in  the  center  of 
each.  Henrietta  Connick. 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

"Here,  is     fruit  for  an  epicure    meet, 

Canned  and  pickled  and  smothered  in  sweet; 

The  wealth  of  a  summer's  mellow  prime, 
To  cheer  the  .dearth  of  winter's  rime." 

VINEGAR. 

Vinegar  is  a  form  of  acetic  acid,  and  its  flavor  varies 
according  to  the  source  from  where  it  is  obtained.  It  is  fre- 
quently adulterated  with  other  acids  which  are  very  injurious. 
All  vegetable  juices  can  go  through  the  fermentation  and 
produce  vinegar.  Fruit  that  has  begun  to  work,  jelly  that  will 
not  set  and  any  parings  of  fruit  will  make  the  best  of  vinegar. 

APPLE   VINEGAR. 

When  cooking  apples,  save  the  parings  and  cores,  if  sound  ; 
put  them  into  a  large  crock,  adding  enough  salt  water  to  keep 
them  covered.  When  the  crock  is  nearly  full,  add  i  cup  brown 
sugar  or  molasses,  and  i  cup  of  yeast  to  every  6  or  8  qts  of 
water.  Stir  well,  keep  the  crock  where  it  is  warm  and  cover 
it  with  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  to  keep  out  insects.  It  will  make 
good  vinegar  in  about  two  weeks.  Strain  and  put  into  glass 
vessels,  for  if  kept  in  the  glazed  crock,  the  acid  will  attack  the 
glazing  and  extract  the  lead.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

The  Savings  Bank  of  Humboldt  County 

EUREKA,  CAL. 

Capital 


Capital  paid  in  50^000 

Reserve  and  profits  ..  61,000 


^       interest  on 
Deposit*  received  from  $1  upwards 
Corner  E  and  Third  Streets 


"Look  for  the  light  that  shadow  prores.  " 
148  PICKLES  AND   PRESERVES 

HORSE    RADISH    VINEGAR. 

Put  into  a  bottle  a  qt.  of  vinegar,  1-4  of  a  Ib.  scraped 
horse  radish,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  i  teaspooil  of 
salt.  Keep  the  bottle  covered,  shake  daily,  and  at  the  end  of 
2  weeks,  strain  and  seal  up.  This  is  excellent  to  use  in  meat 
sauces. 

CELERY  VINEGAR. 

Use  i  oz.  of  celery  seed  to  I  oz.  of  vinegar,  crush  the  seeds, 
and  allow  them  to  steep  for  10  days  or  so.  Strain  and  seal 
in  bottles.  This  is  very  convenient  to  use  in  salads  when 
celery  is  not  obtainable. 

SOUR  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

To  i  gallon  of  cold  vinegar,  take  i  teacup  of  salt,  stir  until 
thoroughly  dissolved,  place  a  grape  leaf  in  the  bottom  of  a 
jar,  and  fill  with  small  crisp  cucumbers,  cover  with  the  cold 
vinegar,  place  a  grape  leaf  on  top  and  seal.  These  will  be 
ready  for  use'  in  2  months  and  will  keep  for  2  years  at  least. 

Mrs.  W.  Coggeshall. 

CUCUMBER    PICKLES. 

One  hundred  green  cucumbers  about  2  inches  long. 
Soak  24  hours  in  rather  strong  brine,  then  pour  off  the  brine 
and  rinse  in  cold  water. 

Three  quarts  pure  cider  vinegar,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  oz. 
whole  cloves,  i  oz.  stick  cinnamon,  i  oz.  black  pepper,  a  little 
sliced  horse  radish,  few  small  red  peppers. 

Scald  the  cucumbers  in  this  and  just  as  soon  as  the  vinegar 
is  scalding  hot,  dip  them  out  and  fill  the  jars;  pour  the  boil- 
ing vinegar  over  them  and  seal  hot. 

MRS.  H.  I.  GUSHAW 

FINE   MILLINERY 

333  F  STREET,   EUREKA 


V 

PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES  149 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Eight  quarts  green  tomatoes,  6  large  onions,  4  green  sweet 
peppers. 

Slice,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let,  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  boil  with  2  qts.  water  and  i  qt.  vinegar,  drain  again. 
Boil  half  hour,  2  qts.  vinegar,  i  Ib.  "brown  sugar,  i  teaspoon 
each  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  and  pour  over  the  pickles 
while  hot.  Mrs.  A.  W.  R.  Berr. 

SWEET    TOMATO    PICKLE. 

One  box  green  tomatoes,  5  cents  worth  of  green  peppers, 
10  cents  worth  of  onions,  i  cup  of  salt. 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions  alternately  with 
the  salt  into  an  agate  kettle.  Let  it  stand  over  night,  drain  off 
the  brine  thoroughly,  pour  over  good  vinegar  until  you  can 
see  it,  add  21-2  Ibs.  sugar,  2  tablespoons  each  cloves,  allspice, 
cinnamon,  ginger,  mustard,  and  grated  horse  radish.  Boil 
very  slowly  all  day  with  frequent  stirrings  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Add  sugar  if  not  sweet  enough. 

Mrs.  G.  Griffiths,  Oakland. 

MUSTARD   PICKLES. 

Two  quarts  small  onions,  2  qts.  small  cucumbers,  3  heads 
cauliflower,  V6  good  sized  green  peppers,  i  gal.  of  vinegar,  24 
tablespoons  ground  mustard,  4  cups  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  flour. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Brown. 

CHOW    CHOW. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  11-2  doz.  cucumbers,  sliced  and 
salted  over  night.  Chop  some  onions  and  i,eed  and  slice  18 
green  peppers ;  '  soak  over  night  in  cold  water. 

Take  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  onions  and  peppers,  drain, 
cover  with  vinegar,  cook  1-2  hour,  drain  again  and  add 

One  can  sugar  corn,  i  can  string  beans,  i  oz.  celery  seed, 
2  oz.  white  mustard  seed. 

Pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with  the  following  mixture: 

Half  pound  table  mustard,  i  1-2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
curry  powder,  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the  pickle.  All  boiled 
together.  Mrs.  J.  P.  Borg. 


"Think  all  you  speak,  but  not  allyou  think." 
150  PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

Take  medium  sized  cucumbers,,  cut  them  in  2  lengthwise, 
add  small  onions,  a  little  cabbage  and  cauliflower,  sprinkle 
well  with  salt,  let  stand  24  hours,  then  fill  the  jars  tight  turn 
up  side  down  and  drain  well.  Boil  together  i  minute  i  gal. 
of  vinegar,  6  tablespoons  salt,  8  tablespoons  mustard  made 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  vinegar,  and  2  tablespoons  each  of  pep- 
per and  allspice.  Pour  onto  the  pickle  hot. 

Mrs.    H.  J.  Bridges. 

CHOW  CHOW. 

Two  quarts  small  green  tomatoes,  12  small  cucumbers,  3 
red  peppers,  i  cauliflower,  2  bunches  of  celery,  i  pint  small 
onions,  2  qts.  string  beans. 

Cut  all  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  salt,  let  stand  24 
hours  and  drain,  bring  to  a  boil  i  gallon  of  vinegar,  1-4  Ib. 
mustard  seed,  2  oz.  turmeric  1-2  oz.  each  allspice,  pepper, 
cloves  and  salt,  add  the  vegetables  and  cook  till  soft. 

MUSTARD    PICKLE. 

One  qt.  small  cucumbers,  i  qt.  large  cucumbers  chopped, 
i  qt.  cauliflower,  i  qt.  small  onions,  i  qt.  green  tomatoes 
chopped,  4  green  peppers  chopped. 

Pour  a  brine  of  4  qts.  of  water  and  i  pint  of  salt  over  the 
whole  mixture ;  let  stand  for  24  hours,  then  heat  to  a  boil  and 
drain.  Mix  i  cup  of  flour,  6  tablespoons  mustard  and  I 
tablespoon  turmeric  seed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  vinegar,  then 
add  vinegar  to  make  2  qts.  Cook  to  a  cream  and  heat  thor- 
oughly. Mrs.  Fenwick. 

CHOW  CHOW. 

One  box  green  tomatoes,  i  good  sized  cabbage,  6  onions. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  and  chop  the  cabbage  and  onions  fine, 
salt  well,  put  in  a  sack  and  drain  over  night.  In  the  morning, 
add  i  qt.  green  and  ripe  peppers  sliced,  12  coffee  cups  brown 
sugar  and  5  qts.  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  each  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  mustard,  i  tablespoon  each  ginger  and  mace.  Let 
all  come  to  a  boil,  move  to  the  back  of  a  stove,  let  scald 
slowly  until  clear.  Mrs.  Annie  M.  Wallace. 


151 


GREEN    TOMATO    SOY. 

Slice  2  gallons  tomatoes  without  peeling  and  I  doz.  good 
sized  onions,  add  2  qts.  vinegar,  i  qt.  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
each  salt,  mustard  seed  and  ground  black  pepper,  i  tablespoon 
each  cloves  and  allspice.  Stew  until  tender,  stirring  often. 

Mrs.  F.  E.  Herrick. 

PICKLE  CABBAGE. 

Shave  fine  6  medium  sized  red  cabbages  and  about  6  onions, 
sprinkle  freely  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  and 
add  i  pint  of  green  and  red  peppers,  5  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  3 
qts.  vinegar,  i  tablespoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice,  I 
teaspoon  each  black  pepper,  ginger  and  mace,  a  few  bay 
leaves,  whole  cloves  and  a  tablespoon  of  mustard.  When  it 
boils  remove' to  the  back  of  the  stove  and  allow  to  set  until  well 
scalded  through.  Tie  the  ground  spices  in  little  sacks. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Wallace. 

To  keep  pickles  from  getting  soft,  put  a  few  grape  leaves 
in  the  jar. 

Take  red  or  yellow  pear  shaped  tomatoes,  prick  each  one 
through  with  a  darning  needle  to  prevent  bursting.  To  each 
pint  of  vinegar  add  i  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  i  tablespoon  of  sugar.  When  the  vinegar  boils, 
put  in  the  tomatoes  for  a  few  minutes,  take  out,  put  in  jars, 
allow  the  vinegar  to  boil  a  few  minuses  longer,  pour  over 
the  tomatoes  and  seal  while  hot. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Pare  12  large  cucumbers,  take  out  the  pulp,  cut  them  in 
strips  about  2  inches  wide  and  3  inches  long.  Take  2  Ibs. 
sugar,  i  pjnt  of  vinegar,  i  oz.  of  cinnamon,  1-2  oz  of  cloves. 

Boil  together  and  skim,  then  put  in  the  cucumbers,  cook 
until  tender,  take  them  out  and  let  the  liquor  cook  15 
minutes  longer.  Fill  the  jars  and  seal.  Genoa,  Ohio. 

SPICED     PEACHES. 

Peel  and  slice  the-  peaches  and  to  2  1-2  Ibs.  of  them  add 
I  cup  vinegar,  2  Ibs.  sugar,  i  tablespoon  each  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  boil  all  together  steadily  for  1-2  hour,  put  up  in  jelly 
dishes.  Mrs.  E.  D.  Keck. 


"There  are  two  days  about  which  nobody  should  ever  worry, 
these  are  yesterday  and  tomorrow.  " 

152  PICKLES  AND   PRESERVES 


SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Six  quarts  gooseberries,  9  Ibs.  sugar,  i  pint  of  vinegar,  I 
tablespoon  each  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves. 

Put  the  berries  in  a  kettle  with  half  of  the  sugar  and  a 
little  water,  boil  I  1-2  hours,  when  nearly  done,  add  the 
rest  of  the  sugar,  take  oft  the  fire,  and  add  the  spices  and 
vinegar.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Herrick. 

SWEET    PICKLED    ALLSPICED    FRUITS. 

Ten  Ibs.  prepared  fruit,  3  Ibs.  light  brown  sugar,  i  qt. 
good  vinegar,  i  oz.  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  tied  in  a  bag. 

Boil  all  together  until  the  fruit  is  tender,  then  boil  the 
juice  down  to  a  good  syrup,  pour  over  the  fruit,  and  seal. 

.  Plums,  cherries,  peaches  and  berries  are  very  nice  pickled 
without  cooking  the  fruit.  Put  the  fruit  into  jars,  pour  the 
syrup  boiling  hot  over  the  soup,  pour  it  off  and  boil  for  3 
successive  mornings,  then  seal. 

PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Select  the  small  white  onions,  boil  them  in  equal  portions 
of  milk  and  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain  and  p^ur  scalding, 
spiced  vinegar  over  them  immediately.  Do  not  use  allspice. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Pare  and  seed  ripe  cucumber  pickles  and  cut  lengthwise, 
let  stand  24  hours  covered  with  vinegar  and  water.  Drain, 
put  into  fresh  vinegar  with  2  Ibs.  of  sugar  and  i  tablespoon 
of  salt  to  every  qt.  of  vinegar.  Boil  20  minutes.  Seal  in  jars ; 
use  cider  vinegar  and  use  if  desired,  whole  spice  or  mustard 
seed  or  cayenne  pepper.  Mrs.  George  Underwood. 


I.  M.  LONG 

REAL  ESTATE,  STOCKS,  LOANS 

Motto:     Small  Profits,  Quick  Sales 
Phones;     Office,  Main  118;  Residence,  Main  245 

230  F  STREET,   EUREKA,   CAL. 


PICKLES  AND   PRESERVES  153 


Pour  boiling  water  over  small  white  onions,  let  stand  until 
cool,  then  peel  with  a  silver  knife,  and  throw  at  once  into  cold 
wat,er.  Have  ready  some  boiling  salted  water,  cook  until  the 
onions  become  transparent,  drain,  fill  the  jars  closely,  and 
cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  allowing  2  cups  of  sugar  to  I 
gallon  of  vinegar.  Into  each  qt.  jar  put  2  or  3  small  red 
peppers  and  I  teaspoon  mustard  seed.  These  onions  will  re- 
main white. 

MOCK  OLIVES. 

Make  a  pickle  of  vinegar,  mustard  seed  and  a  little  salt, 
heated  boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  over  green  plums  when 
they  are  about  the  size  of  olives.  Pour  off  the  vinegar  the 
next  day,  boil  it  and  scald  the  plums  again. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  L.,  Lockport,  N.  Y. 

GREEN  PEPPER    MANGLES. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  tops  of  large  green  peppers,  take  out 
the  seeds  and  white  veins  and  stand  the  peppers  with  their 
tops  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt  inside  in  a  dish.  Cover  with  cold 
water,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Shave  enough  hard  white 
cabbage  to  fill  the  peppers,  season  with  salt  and  mustard 
seed,  allowing  i  tablespoon  each  of  salt  and  mustard  seed, 
T  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed  equal  parts,  to  every 
large  head  of  cabbage.  Drain  peppers  thoroughly,  stuff  with 
prepared  cabbage,  tie  the  covers  on,  stand  closely  in  stone 
jars,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Ingley. 

GREEN    TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Six  onions,  i  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  1-2  of  a  cabbage, 
slice  the  tomatoes,  and  put  in  Iayer3  with  salt  in  a  dish  and 
allow  to  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  pour  off  all  the 
liquor,  add  2  qts.  of  water  and  i  qt.  of  vinegar.  Cook  5  min- 
utes and  drain.  Add  the  chopped  onions  and  cabbage  with 
3  pints  vinegar,  i  tablespoon  mustard,  1-2  teaspoon  red  pep- 
per, 4  cups  brown  sug.ir.  and  a  small  bag  filled  with  spices 
of  all  kinds.  Cook  10  or  15  minutes  or  until  the  cabbage 
and  onions  are  tender.  Take  out  the  spice  bag  and  bottle. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Strong. 


"Love  rules  without  law.  " 

154  PICKLES  AND   PRESERVES 

CHOW  CHOW. 

• 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  2  heads  cabbage,  12  green  pep- 
pers, 12  large  onions. 

Cut  fine  or  chop,  add  8  tablespoons  salt,  6  teaspoons  black 
pepper,  6  teaspoons  each  allspice  and  white  mustard,  2  Ibs^ 
brown  sugar,  cover  all  with  vinegar  and  simmer  3  hours. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Bridges. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

To  i  gallon  of  strained  cooked    tomatoes     add     i     quart 
good  cider  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  salt,  4  tablespoons  mustardr 
made  smooth  in  a  little    vinegar,  i  tablespoon    black  pepper,  i 
teaspoon  red  pepper,     spice  and  sugar  to  taste.     Boil     two- 
hours.  Mrs.  H.  J.  Bridges. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Cut  up  12  oranges  and  weigh  them,  to  every  Ib.  of  fruit 
add  3  pints  of  water,  let  stand  over  night,  boil  about,  two» 
hours  or  until  tender.  The  third  day,  add  a  pint  of  sugar 
to  every  pint  of  pulp,  and  boil  21-2  hours.  Add  the  juice 
of  4  lemons  just  before  taking  it  up  and  put  into  jelly 
glasses.  Mrs.  E.  J.  Chapman. 

CHILI    SAUCE. 

Twenty-four  ripe  tomatoes,  7  onions,  i  cup  brown  sugar, 
3  cups  vinegar,  1-4  teaspoon  red  pepper,  2  tablespoons  salt, 
i  tablespoon  each  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Boil  until 
thick,  and  add  i  tablespoon  mustard,  bottle  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Buchanan. 

INDIAN    RELISH. 

Chop  fine  i  small  head  of  cabbage,  6  onions,  6  bell  pep- 
pers, 6  small  red  peppers,  2  qts.  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle 
over  all  i  cup  of  salt.  Let  it 'stand  over  night,  drain  well, 
partly^  cover  with  vinegar,  add  1-2  cup  mustard  seed,  i  tea- 
spoon celery  seed,  1-2  cup  sugar,  boil  until  done,  then  add 
i  tablespoon  English  mustard.  Mrs.'F.  A.  Wood. 


PICKLES  AND   PRESERVES  155 


CATSUP. 

Two  gallons  ripe  tomatoes,  5  tabltdpoons  mustard,  5 
tablespoons  salt,  4  tablespoons  pepper,  2  tablespoons  cloves,  3. 
tablespoons  allspice,  2  small  teaspoons  red  pepper. 

Cover  with  2  qts.  of  vinegar,  boil  i  hour,  run  through  a 
sieve,  bottle  and  seal.  Mrs.  Logan. 

CHILI     SAUCE. 

Nine  tomatoes,  2  onions,  2  peppers,  i  teaspoon  allspice,  i 
of  ginger,  i  of  nutmeg,  i  of  cloves,  i  of  cinnamon,  i  table- 
spoon salt,  i  cup  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  boil  until  thick. 

Mrs.    H.  W.McLellan. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Eighteen  ripe  tomatoes,  3  green  peppers,  2  medium  sized 
onions,  1-2  cup  brown  sugar,  i  teaspoon  each  cloves,  allspice,, 
cinnamon,  1-2  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  boil  1-2  hour,  add 
21-2  cups  vinegar  and  boil  1-2  hour  longer,  bottle  and  seal, 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Cummins. 

SWEET    PICKLED    PEARS. 

Ten  Ibs.  fruit,  3  Ibs.  extra  C  sugar,  i  qt.  vinegar,  1-2  oz. 
each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon. 

Pare  the  fruit  but  do  not  core  it,  only  remove  the  stems. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices,  and  when 
boiling  add  the  pears  carefully  a  few  at  a  time  and  allow 
them  to  be  cooked  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw. 
Take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  put  into  a  crock.  Pour  the 
syrup  over  the  fruit.  A. water  bucket  of  pears  equals  about 
10  Ibs.  Mrs.  R.  E.  Woodhams. 

TOMATO    PRESERVES. 

Scald  and  peel  carefully  yellow  egg  tomatoes,  prick  with 
a  needle  and  let  them  lie  over  night  with  their  weight  in 
sugar.  Pour  the  juice  off,  boil  to  a  thick  syrup,  add  the 
tomatoes  and  cook  until  they  look  transparent.  '  Put  a  small 
piece  of  ginger  root,  and  i  lemon  sliced  with  every  pound  of 
fruit. 

To  prevent  preserves  from  sugaring,  add  a  very  little 
tartaric  acid. 


"Live  not  without  a  God!  however  low  or  high 
In  every  house  should  be  a  window  to  the  sky. " 

156  PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Eighteen  large \iorri2 toes,  10  peppers  seeded  and  chopped 
fine,  6  onions  chopped  fine,  9  tablespoons  sugar,  6  even  table- 
spoons salt,  4  cups  vinegar.  Cook  at  least  3  hours. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Wallace. 

t 

PRESERVED    RASPBERRIES. 

Fill  the  fruit  jars  with  fresh  berries,  put  on  the  rubbers 
and  tightly  screw  on  thf  tops,  set  the  jars  in  a  wash  boiler, 
raising  them  an  inch  or  so  off  the  bottom  by  means  of  slats  of 
wood.  Put  into  the  boiler  several  quarts  of  water  and  cook 
steadily  for  15  minutes  after  it  boils.  Then  lift 'the  jars  out 
one  by  one  and  fill  to  overflowing  with  boiling  syrup  made  of 
3  parts  of  sugar  and  i  part  water.  Seal  quickly  and  keep  in 
a  dark  cool  place. 

PEAR   PRESERVES. 

Eight  pounds  of  pear  weighed  after  peeling,  5  Ibs.  granu- 
lated sugar,  1-2  Ib.  preserved  ginger,  6  lemons  (pulp),  rind 
of  3  lemons.  Put  altogether  in  layers  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Cook  for  4  or  5  hours  or  until  tender. 

Henrietta  Connick. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES. 

Hull  the  berries,  wash  and  drain,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
allowing  1-4  Ib.  of  sugar  to  1-4  Ib.  of  berries,  let  stand  over 
night.  Drain  off  the  juice,  and  when  it  boils  add  the  berries, 
cook  a  few  minutes,  put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.   Swithenbank. 


fiutnboldt  County  Bank 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES  137 

FIG    JAM. 

Three-quarters  Ib.  sugar  to  i  lb.  peeled  figs,  juice  of 
lemons  to  taste  but  no  water,  cook  an  hour  or  longer. 

•       Mrs.    Buchanan. 

SWEET1     PICKLED     PEARS. 

Seven  Ibs.  peeled  and  cored  pears,  3  1-2  Ibs.  brown 
sugar,  i  qt.  cider  vinegar,  i  teaspoon  each  mace  and  cloves, 
i  tablespoon  cinnamon. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices,  put  in 
the  pears  and  boil  until  tender,  then  take  them  out  and 
spread  upon  platters  ro  cool.  Let,  the  syrup  boil  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken,  put  the  pears  in  jars  and  pour  the  boiling 
syrup  over  them.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Ingley. 

SPICED  APPLES. 

Four  Ibs.  apples,  2  Ibs.  sugar,  1-2  oz.  stick  cinnamon  1-2 
oz.  whole  cloves,  i  pint  of  vinegar. 

Bring  the  vinegar,  spices  and  sugar  to  a  boil,  put  in  the 
apples  and  cook  until  tender.  These  can  be  kept,  in  an  earthen 
crock  by  laying  a  cloth  over  the  top  before  putting  on  the 
cover.  . 

PLUM  CATSUP. 

To  3-4  of  a  lb.  of  fruit  use  i  3-4  Ibs.  of  sugar,  i  table- 
spoon each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  pepper  and  a  little  salt. 
Scald  the  plums  and  put  them  through  a  collander,  then  add 
sugar  and  spices  and  boil  to  the  right  consistency. 

Mrs.   Swithenbank. 

APRICOT    MARMALADE. 

Ten  Ibs.  apricots  after  removing  the  skins  while  scalding, 
7  Ibs.  sugar,  i  pineapple,  juice  of  4  lemons,  almond  extract. 
Let  apricots  boil  in  their  own  juice  3-4  of  an  hour,  add  sugar 
'and  boil  10  minutes,  add  pineapple  and  lemon  juice  and  boil 
10  minutes  longer.  Add  extract  of  almonds  or  chopped 
blanched  almonds,  and  the  kernels  of  the  apricot  seeds,  using 
about  1-4  of  a  cup.  Mrs.  Fenwick. 


'"Where  there  is  no  peace  there  is  no  feast.  " 
158  PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

CHILI    SAUCE. 

Twelve  ripe  tomatoes  pared,  2  large  peppers  chopped 
fine,  i  large  onion  chopped  fine,  2  cups  vinegar,  i  tablespoon 
salt,  i  tea  cup  brown  sugar,  i  teaspoon  each  allspice,  nutmeg, 
-cloves  and  ginger.  Boil  together. 

MARMALADE. 

Equal  parts  of  apricot  and  pineapple,  allow  3-  4  of  a  Ib. 
•of  sugar  to  i  Ib.  of  fruit,  chop  the  pineapples  and  mash  the 
apricots,  blanche  the  apricot  kernels,  chop  and  boil  with  the 
fruit,  add  the  sugar  to  the  fruit  separately,  letting  them 
stand  over  night.  Mrs.  Borg. 

CONSERVE. 

* 

Three  pints  currant  juice,  5  Ibs.  sugar,  2  Ibs.  raisins 
chopped,  i  1-2  Ibs.  currants,  2  Ibs.  English  walnuts  chopped, 
6  good  sized  oranges. 

Peel  off  the  outer  rind  of  oranges,  cover  with  cold  water, 
boil  until  tender  and  mince  fine.  Boil  together  all  the  other 
ingredients,  except  the  nuts  and  sugar,  slowly  i  1-2  hours, 
then  add  these  and  boil  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved, then  pour  into  glasses.  This  is  excellent  for  sand- 
wiches. Mrs.  D.  D.  Clark. 

ORANGE     MARMALADE. 

Slice  6  oranges  and  3  or  4  lemons  as  thin  as  possible.  To 
each  pint  of  sliced  fruit  fruit  add  3  pints  of  cold  water,  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  boil  3-4  of  an  hour,  let 
stand  until  the  next  day,  measure  again,  and  to  each  Ib. 
add  i  Ib.  of  sugar  and  boil  as  with  jelly.  Better  results  are 
obtained  by  boiling  small  quantities  at  a  time.  Use  common 
sour  oranges,  taking  out  the  seeds  as  you  slice  them. 

Mrs.   Corbaley. 


DRY  GOODS  CLOAKS 

MILLINERY  FANCY  GOODS 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES  159 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Eight  good  sized  oranges  and  4  lemons,  slice  very  thin 
without  peeling,  cover  with  4  quarts  of  water  and  let  stand 
-overnight.  In  the  morning  let  boil  about  3  hours  or  until 
tender.  Then  measure  in  a  quart  bowl,  and  to  4  quarts  of 
fruit  use  three  quarts  of  sugar.  Boil  fast  for  20  minutes, 
and  put  into  jelly  glasses  or  pint  jars.  When  cool  the  liquid 
part  should  be  a  soft  jelly.  Oranges  not  too  ripe  are  best 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Crane. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Twenty-four  oranges,  rinds  of  three.  Boil  rinds  20 
minutes  in  water,  scrape  out  all  the  bitter  white,  and  cut 
into  small  thin  strips.  Slice  oranges,  taking  out  all  the 
seeds,  boil  the  rinds  and  oranges  together  15  minutes,  add  3-4 
cup  sugar  to  i  cup  cf  orange,  boil  20  minutes,  put  away  in 
glasses  as  jelly.  Mrs.  E.  E.  Condo. 

JELLY. 

Cut  large  fruit  into,  pieces,  add  water  enough  to  prevent 
burning  except  with  apples  and  quinces,  these  should  be  well 
covered  with  water.  Cover  the  kettle  and  cook  slowly  until 
soft.  Turn  all  into  a  funnel  shaped  flannel  bag,  and  allow 
it  to  drip  in  a  warm  place.  Toward  the  last  squeeze  the  bag 
gently,  but  do  hot  try  to  get  all  of  the  juice,  as  it  will  be  apt  to 
make  the  jelly  cloudy  If  liked  very  clear,  strain  it  the 
second  time.  Measure  the  juice  and  allow  i  lb.  of  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  juice.  Put  the  jelly  on  to  boil  and  put  the 
sugar  into  dripping  pans,  into  the  oven.  The  juice  should  boil 
about  20  minutes  and  the  sugar  should  be  hot  enough  to 
hiss  when  dropped  into  the  juice.  Let  it  just  come  to  a  boil 
and  put  at  once  into  jelly  glasses  that,  have  been  heated  in 
warm  water.  The  pulp  of  the  fruit  may  be  used  to  make 
marmalade.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

"When  peas  are  plentiful  wash  the  pods,  shell  and  pour 
boiling  water  over  them,  set  on  the  stove  and  when  the  water 
comes  to  a  boil  pour  it  off.  Put  the  peas  into  jars  and  fill  to 
over  flowing  with  a  brine  that  has  been  boiled,  skimmed  and 
cooled.  When  wanted  for  use  soak  the  peas  in  fresh  water. 


"They  also  serve  who  only  stand  and  wait. " 

-160  PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

CANNED  GOOSEBERRIES  FOR  PIE. 

Set  the  bottle  filled  with  gooseberries  in  a  pan,  pour  boil- 
ing water  into  and  around  them,  allow  them  to  stand  about 
a  minute,  pour  off  and  refill  the  bottles  with  boiling  water 
and  seal.  Mrs.  O.  C.  Gregor. 

SPICED    CHERRIES. 

Seven  Ibs.  pitted  cherries,  3  3-4  Ibs.  sugar,  i  pint  of  vine- 
gar, cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  the  spices,  put  in  bags,  until  they  make 
a  nice  syrup.  Then  add  the  cherries  and  cook  until  nice 
arid  soft.  Black  cherries  are  the  best  to  use. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Campbell,  Oakland. 

LOGAN    AND    CURRANT    JAM. 

Squeeze  the  juice  out  of  currants,  add  an  equal  amount 
of  sugar,  boil  10  minutes,  add  logan  berries  with  equal  parts 
of  sugar;  the  sugar  should  be  put  on  the  logan  berries  and 
allowed  to  stand  over  night.  Do  not  cook  long  enough  to 
harden  the  seeds.  Put  in  jelly  glasses. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Campbell,  Oakland. 

JELLY. 

For  currant,  crab  apple,  apple,  logan  berries  and  black 
berries.  Cook  the  fruits  slowly  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  put 
it  into  a  bag  and  let  it  drip  over  night.  Measure  the  juice  and 
to  5  cups  allow  3  cups  of  sugar.  Heat  the  sugar  in  an  open 
oven  and  when  quite  hot  add  to  the  juice.  Boil  a  few  min- 
utes or  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved. 

For  peach  jelly  allow  i  1-2  cups  of  apple  or  crab  apple 
juice  to  5  cups  of  peach  juice.  Mrs.  George  Underwood. 

To  preserve  pears,  quinces  or  peaches  steam  first  until 
tender,  then  make  a  thick  syrup  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Put  it  on  the  back  of  stove  and  cook  slowly. 

Mrs.  Underwood. 

Allspice  is  the  popular  name  given  to  the  Jamaica  pep- 
per,  the  berries  of  which  are  picked  green  and  dried  in  the 
sun. 


PICKLES  AND   PRESERVES  161 

Caraway  seeds  are  the  fruit  of  a  biennial  plant  that  looks 
something  like  a  carrot. 

Cassia  is  the  dried  bark  of  a  species  of  cinnamon. 

Cinnamon  bark  is  the  inner  bark  of  a  tree  which  is  a 
species  of  the  laurel  family,  and  is  found  in  Ceylon,  Java,  etc. 

Cloves  are  the  dried  buds  of  the  clove  tree,  an  evergreen. 
Our  supply  comes  from  Zanzibar  and  W?est  Indie?. 

Ginger  is  the  root  of  a  plant  which  is  a  native  of  Arabia. 
Our  supply  comes  from  Japan  and  Jamaica.  Owing  to  its 
light  color  and  fine  flavor  the  Jamaica  product  is  most 
esteemed. 

Nutmeg  is  the  kernel  of  the  fruit  of  an  evergreen     tree 
cultivated  in  the  West  Indies.       It  is  slightly  narcotic. 
Mace  is  the  membrane  which  surrounds  the  nutmeg. 

Vanilla  beans  come  principally  from  Mexico.  The  extract 
is  made  by  steeping  the  beans  in  alcohol,  hence  one  should 
be  careful  in  its  use.  The  bean  is  much  superior  to  the  ex- 
tract for  flavoring  custards,  ice  creams,  etc.  Crush  the  bean, 
boil  it  in  the  milk  and  strain.  Its  odor  is  said  to  intoxicate 
those  who  gather  it. 

CANNED  TOMATOES. 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  cook  well,  fill  the  jars  full 
while  boiling  hot,  and  seal  immediately.  Tomatoes  will 
surely  spoil  if  kept  in  the  light.  If  you  have  no  dark  fruit 
closet,  wrap  the  jars  well  in  paper.  Mrs.  L. 


& 


9 


^j^vs 


T 


/- 

€<_ 


/ 


CANDIES 

"Have  you  ever  heard  of  the  sugar  plum  tree? 

Tis  a  marvel  of  great  renown."  Eugene  Field. 

CREAM  CANDIES. 

Fondant  is  the  foundation  of  all  cream  candies  and  a  great 
variety  of  pretty  bon  bons  can  be  made  by  noticing  the  shapes 
and  forms  of  French  candies  and  imitating  them.  Place  2 
cups  granulated  sugar,  i  cup  cold  water,  and  a  pinch  of  cream 
of  tartar  in  a  kettle,  boil  rapidly  without  stirring  until  done, 
10  minutes  usually  being  sufficient  for  this  quantity. 
Stirring  will  surely  cause  it,  to  grain. 

Test  it  thus :  Hold  the  fingers  in  cold  water,  then  roll  a 
drop  of  the  syrup  between  them  and  if  it  forms  a  creamy  ball, 
the  syrup  is  done.  Remove  immediately  from  the  fire,  allow 
it  to  become  luke  warm,  now  stir  with  a  wooden  paddle  until 
it  looks  creamy  and  begins  to  harden  on  top.  Then  knead 
with  the  hands  until  it  is  smooth  and  creamy. 

Chocolate  Creams :  Roll  a  piece  of'  fondant  between  the 
hands  into  a  cylindrical  shape,  cut  it  into  pieces  an  inch  long, 
roll  each  between  the  palms  and  give  it  a  round  shape  and  lay 
on  paraffine  paper  to  harden. 

Coating  for  the  Creams :  Melt  a  cake  of  Baker's  choco- 
late over  the  teakettle.  When  it  is  liquid,  put  into  it  a  piece 
of  paraffine  the  size  of  a  walunt,  half  as  much  butter,  and  a 
few  drops  of  vanilla  stirring  so  as  to  mix  it  thoroughly.  Dip 
the  creams  and  lay  on  paraffine  paper  to  harden. 

Creamed  Figs:  Cut  figs  in  half,  dip  in -melted  fondant 
and  lay  on  wax  paper  to  harden. 


These  Recipes  are  all  very  nice,  but  if  you  want  the 

Real  Thing 

go  to  the 

BONBONIERE 


"To  live  long  slowly.  " 

104  CANDIES 


Nut  Rolls :  Take  a  piece  of  fondant,  mix  it  with  chopp 
walnuts,  form  it  into  round  balls,  placing  a  nut  on  ea 
piece. 

Creamed  Almonds :     Blanche  a  number     of  almonds 
pouring  boiling  water  over  them  and     removing     the     skii 
Color  some  of  the   fondant,  pink,  flavor  with  almond,   foi 
into  little  balls  and  press1  an  almond  into  the  center  of  ea< 
rolling    it  in  granulated  sugar. 

Cocoanut  Balls :  To  a  given  quantity  of  fondant  alk 
1-3  as  much  cocoanut,  mix  well  and  roll  into  balls,  roll  ea 
in  cocoanut  until  well  covered  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Lidstone. 

FONDANT. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,     1-2     tablespoon     glucose, 
tablespoons  cold  water. 

Boil  until  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold  water,  pour  into  a  d 
•dish  and  cream.  Use  any  flavor  or  color  and  put  in  wh 
creaming.  Mrs.  E.  A.  Cockburn. 

MARSH  MALLOW     CANDY. 

Put  to  soak  1-2  package  Knox  gelatine  in  6  tablespoons 
cold  water.  Boil  2  cupfuls  granulated  sugar  in  1-2  ci 
water  until  it  hairs  and  add  to  gelatine  and  flavor  to  tas 
with  almond.  Beat  continually  for  30  minutes  or  moi 
and  spread  on  a  square  pan  dusted  with  powdered  sugz 
Let  the  candy  set  for  several  hours,  then  cut  in  squares  ai 
roll  in  powdered  sugar.  If  pink  color  is  wanted  for  tl 
candy,  put  the  red  tablet  in  the  gelatine  while  soaking. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Pentland. 


Phone  Main  56 

Thompson,  Ferguson  &  Co. 

..GROCERS.. 

We  sell  Barrington  Hall  Steel  Cut  Coffee 

COR.   FIFTH  AND  F  STREETS,    EUREKA,   CAL. 


CANDIES 


SMITH    COLLEGE    FUDGE. 

Melt  1-4  cup  butter.  Mix  in  a  separate  dish  i  cup  brown 
sugar,  1-4  cup  molasses  and  i  cup  cream.  Add  this  to  the 
butter  and  after  it  has  ccme  to  a  boil,  continue  to  boil  for  2  1-2 
minutes,  stirring  rapidly.  Then  add  1-2  cup  ground  choco- 
late and  boil  5  minutes,  stirring  rapidly  and  lessening  toward 
the  end.  After  taking  from  the  fire  add  i  1-2  teaspoons 
vanilla  and  a  cup  of  chopped  walnuts.  Stir  constantly  until 
the  mass  thickens.  Pour  onto  buttered  pans  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.  Ethel  M.  Langford. 

FUDGE. 

Half  cup  milk,  21-2  cups  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter,  6 
tablespoons  chocolate,  pinch  of  salt,  flavoring. 

Stir  until  it  begins  to  boil  and  cook,  from  8  to  12  minutes 
or  until  it  makes  a  nrm  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Take  off  the  stove,  add  i  teaspoon  flavoring,  stir  until  i£ 
shows  signs  of  thickening,  then  turn  on  a  buttered  plate  and 
when  cool  mark  into  squares.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Weatherby. 

MEXICAN    FUDGE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk,  i  cup  chopped 
nuts,  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

Let  the  butter,  sugar  and  milk  boil  until  it  will  harden  in 
water  and  remove  from  stove.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  stir  in 
nuts  and  put  in  a  buttered  platter  and,  when  cool  cut,  in 
cubes. 

VASSAR    FUDGE. 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg ;  2  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate  or 
2  heaping  tablespoons  cocoa. 

Let  the  mixture  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  rapidly  after 
it  begins  to  boil.  Take  off  from  stove  and  add  i  teaspoon 
vanilla,  stir  2  minutes,  pour  in  buttered  tins  and  when  cool 
cut  in  cubes. 

FUDGE. 

One  and  a  quarter  cups  sugar,  1-4  cup  milk,  1-2  cup 
cocoa,  i  1-2  tablespoons  butter  1-2  teaspoon- vanilla,  pinch 
of  salt.  "'Myrtle  Noe. 


"They  who  live  in  worry,  invite  death  to  hurry." 
166  CANDIES 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Two  cups  molasses,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  butter  size  of 
walnut. 

Boil     20  minutes     or  until     hard  when  dropped  in     cc 
water,  then     add  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  i  teaspo 
soda,   i  tablespoon  vinegar.     Let  stand  until  cool  enough 
pull.  Ruth  E.  Starbird. 

PANOCHA    CANDY. 

Three  and  a  half  cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  i  tab' 
spoon  chocolate,  i  cup    chopped  walnuts.    Cook  about  3-4 
an  hour  with     a  moderate  fire.     Watch     carefully,  stirrii 
occasionally  to  keep      from   sticking  or  burning.        Try 
cold  water  as  you  do    other  candy  to  see  if  done.      Add  m 
when  it  is  done.    Pour  in  buttered  pan  and  when  cool,  cut 
cubes.  Mrs.  O.  W.  Lord. 

PANOCHA. 

Three  cups  brown  sugar,  3-4  cup  milk,  butter  size  of 
walnut. 

Boil  the  mixture  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  dropped  ir 
cold  water.  Add  i  cup  of  chopped  walnut  meats,  i  teaspo 
vanilla.  Turn  in  buttered  pans  when  almost  hard. 

Victor    Harris. 

PANOCHA. 

Enough  cream  or  milk  to  moisten  2  cups  brown  sugar, 
cup  white  sugar,  i  tablespoon  butter,  5  tablespoons  chocola 
i  tablespoon  vanilla,  i  cup  broken  walnut  meats.  Boil  mi 
sugar  and  chocolate  and  butter  20  minutes.  Remove  from  fl 
and  cream,  adding  nuts  and  flavoring  last. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Cockburn. 

PEANUT    CANDY. 

Put  2  cups  of  white  sugar  into  dry    iron  frying  pans  a; 

stir    until  it  melts.      Have  2  bags  of  peanuts  shelled  and  a 

these  with      i  tablespoon     vanilla.       Remove     quickly     ir 

buttered    dish.  •  Mrs.  E.  A.  Cockburn. 

"The  daintiest  last  to  make  the  end  more  sweet." 

— Shakespeare. 


CANDIES  167 

TURKISH  DELIGHT. 

One  qt.  granulated  sugar,  i  box  gelatine,  1-2  cup  cold 
water,  i  cup  hot  water,  juice  of  i  lemon,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  i  orange,  1-2  Ib.  chopped  walnuts. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  hot  water,  let  sugar  and  1-2 
cup  cold  water  come  to  a  boil,  add  the  gelatine  and  let  it  boil 
10  minutes,  then  add  the  juices  of  the  orange  and  lemon  and 
let  boil  10  minutes  again.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  nuts. 
Wet  shallow  pans  with  cold  water  and  pour  the  mixture  in. 
Let  stand  over  night.  Cut  in  cubes  and  roll  in  powdered 
sugar.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Crane. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


A  RECIPE  FOR  A  DAY. 

"Take  a  little  dash  of  water  cold 
And  a  little  leaven  of  prayer, 

And  a  little  bit  of  morning  gold, 
Dissolved  in  the  morning  air. 


Add  to  yoin  meal  some  merriment, 

And  a  thought  for  kith  and  kin, 
And  then  as  your  prime  ingredient, 

Aplenty  of  work  thrown  in. 
And  spice  it  all  with  the  essence  of  love 

And  a  little  whiff  of  play 
Let  a  wise  old  book  and  a  glance  above        ' 

Complete  the  well   made   day."  —  Wells. 

CHEESE    STRAWS. 

Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  1-4  of  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  half 
of  it  with  grated  cheese,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  fold  and 
press  the  edges  together,  fold  again  and  roll  1-4  of  an  inch 
thick.  Sprinkle  again  with  seasoned  cheese  and  proceed  as 
before.  Repeat  twice,  cut  in  very  narrow  strips  and  bake. 

Miss  Robertson. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Mix  4  tablespoons  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  cayenne 
pepper  and  3  oz.  of  rich  grated  cheese.  Add  the  beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg  and  enough  ice  water  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Roll 
out  on  a  board  1-8  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  strips  1-8  inch 
wide  and  5  inches  long.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  very  light 
brown. 

CHEESE  CRACKERS. 

Butter  soda  crackers  and  cover  with  very  thin  slices  of 
cheese,  spread  the  cheese  with  prepared  mustard  and  bake 
in  a  dripping  pan  until  'the  butter  and  cheese  melt  together. 
Served  verv  hot.  Mrs.  Berr. 


"The  broad  minded  see  the  truth  in  different  religions,  the- 
narrow  minded  see  only  their  differences. " 

170  MISCELLANEOUS 


CHEESE     STRAWS. 

One  pint  flour,  1-2  pint  grated  cheese,  i  scant  cup  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  1-2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  little  salt, 
large  pinch  red  pepper,  roll  1-2  inch  thick,  cut  into  strips 
1-2  inch  wide  and  5  or  6  inches  long.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Graham,  Samoa. 

CHEESE     BISCUIT. 

Roll  some  puff  paste  or  ordinary  biscuit  dough  out  thin,, 
sprinkle  over  with  cayenne  pepper  and  dry  grated  cheese, 
double  over  the  paste,  roll  out  again  and  cut  with  a  small 
round  cutter.  Brush  over  with  an  egg  and  bake  in  a  hot  overt 
to  a  pale  brown.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Crane. 

SCALLOP    CHEESE. 

Three  slices  of  bread  buttered,  i  qt.  of  grated  cheese.  Lay 
bread  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprnkle  over  the 
grated  cheese  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  mustard.  Four  beaten 
egirs,  3  cups  of  milk  well  beaten  together  and  poured  over  the 
bread.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  A.  D.  Hannah. 

CHEESE  FONDA. 

One  cup -of  sweet,  milk,  1-2  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  beaten 
eggs,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1-2  cup  grated  cheese, 
pinch  of  soda. 

Soak  the  bread  in  milk,  add  soda  eggs  and  butter  with 
cheese  last.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake 
until  set.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Tuft. 

"It  is  said  of  Americans  that,  they  taste  cheese,  while 
Europeans  eat  it." 

DUTCH     CHEESE. 

Set  pan  of  clabbered  milk  on  the  stove,  pour  boiling  water 
into  it  and  as  soon  as  it  separates,  pour  it  into  a  funnel 
shaped  bag,  and  hang  it  up  where  it  can  drain  until  dry.  Be 
careful  not  to  get  it  too  hot  or  the  cheese  will  be  tough. 
Season  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  rich  cream,  mix  into  a 
smooth  paste  with  the  hands  and  form  into  small  balls. 


MISCELLANEOUS  171 


CORN  FRITTERS. 

One  can  corn,  2  eggs,  i  cup  of  milk,  i  cup  of  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Mix  and  fry  in  some  good  shorten- 
ing. Mrs.  S.  A.  Wandersford. 

APPLE    FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  of  i  1-2  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  i  egg,  1-4  teaspoon  salt,  2-3  cup  milk,  pare,  core  and 
cut  up  2  medium  sized  apples  and  stir  into  the  batter.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  into  deep  hot  fat,  drain,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  serve  hot. 

NUT   STICKS. 

One  and  a  half  cups  flour,  i  heaped  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, pinch  of  salt  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  and  milk  to 
roll  out,  cut  into  strips  i  inch  wide,  3  inches  long,  and  place 
some  coarsely  chopped  nuts  on  top,  pressing  them  in  slightly. 
Nice  to  eat  with  salad.  Mrs.  George  Wjalters. 

SWISS  SHELLS. 

Two  well  beaten  eggs,  add  3  tablespoons  of  milk,  a  little 
salt  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out  very  thin.  Cut  into  squares, 
drop  into  deep  hot  lard  and  as  soon  as  they  curl  up,  turn 
over,  remove  and  drain.  They  should  cook  in  about  2 
minutes.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  while  hot.  These  are  nice 
for  afternoon  lunches  with  coffee.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Balcom. 

TIMBALE    BATTER. 

Two  eggs  beaten  smooth,  i  teaspoon  salt,  1-2  cup  milk,  i 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Thin  to  the  right  consistency  by  adding  1-4  of  a  cup  of 
milk. 

Cream  Sauce :  Two  quarts  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  cups 
butter. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  stirring  until  smooth,  then 
add  the  heated  milk,  season  to  taste.  This  amount  of  sauce 
which  is  the  foundation  sauce  for  cream  chicken  or  oysters 
is  sufficient  to  fill  48  timbale  shells. 

Mrs.  Warren,  Tomah,  Wis. 


"A  good  wife  and  health  are  a  man's  best  wealth. " 
172  MISCELLANEOUS 

SAVORY   RICE. 

Boil  1-2  Ib.  of  rice  in  well  seasoned  meat  stock  until  it 
is  perfectly  tender  and  forms  a  thick  substance,  press  this 
together  and  arrange  into  a  border  on  a  hot  platter  and  fill 
the  center  with  highly  seasoned  minced  beef,  garnish  the  rice 
with  boiled  vegetables,  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

Mrs.  E.  I.  HATCH. 

PUFFETS. 

Two  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  3  tablespoons  white 
sugar,  i  pint  sweet,  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix 
soft  and  bake  in  gem  pans.  Mrs.  E.  J.  Chapman. 

CORN    FRITTERS. 

Half  cup  canned  corn,  2  eggs,  11-2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk. 

Mix  well,  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  hot  fat  and  fry 
to  a  golden  brown.  Mrs.  E.  A.  Cockburn. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

To  the  liquor  of  12  clams  add  i  pint  of  milk,  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  salt,  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  chop  clams 
and  stir  into  the  batter,  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  smoking  fat. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Campbell. 

TURKISH    PALIF. 

One  cup  of  uncooked  rice,  cook  in  3  tablespoon  lard,  stir- 
ring carefully  until  brown  with  a  little  onion.  Add  two 
cups  boiling  water,  and  steam  until  the  water  is  all  absorbed, 
and  then  add  i  cup  of  boiling  stewed  tomatoes,  salt  and  pep- 
per and  cook  until  soft.  Mrs.  Condo. 

A  LUNCH  DISH. 

Nearly  fill  a  pudding  dish  with  cooked  macaroni,  make  a 
hole  in  the  center,  and  fill  with  chopped  cold  roast  mutton, 
which  has  been  highly  seasoned,  cover  with  bread  crumbs, 
bits  of  butter  and  pour 'over  all  a  rich  tomato  sauce.  Bake 
until  brown.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Elsmore. 


MISCELLANEOUS  173 


SPAGHETTI,  ROMAN  STYLE: 

One  quart  ripe  tomatoes,  i  Ib.  round  steak,  i  onion,  I 
carrot,  i  sprig  of  celery,  8  cloves,  just  cover  with  water  and 
let  simmer  3  hours,  strain,  thicken  with  i  tablespoon  flour 
creamed  with  i  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  1-2  Ib.  spaghetti 
until  nearly  done,  drop  it  into  the  sauce  and  cook  about  ten 
minutes.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  serve. 

MILANESE  RISOTTO. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1-2  Ib.  rice 
that  has  been  washed  and  dried,  stirring  carefully  to  keep 
it  from  burning  until  it  has  attained  a  light  brown  hue.  Add 
3  pints  of  well  seasoned  soup  stock  and  a  minced  onion  that 
has  been  browned  in  butter.  Cook  about  3-4  hour  and  when 
about  half  done,  add  seme  cooked  meat  chopped  fine.  When 
the  broth  has  been  absorbed,  add  i  cup  tomato  sauce  prepared 
as  for  Roman  spaghetti,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2  table- 
spoons grated  cheese  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper. 

Miss  Edith  Porter. 

SPAGHETTI. 

• 

Cook  i  package  of  spaghetti  in  3  quarts  of  boiling  salted 
water  about  20  minutes  and  drain.  Cut  into  dice  5  slices 
of  bacon  and  3  or  4  medium  sized  onions,  fry  together,  season 
with  salt  and  pepperica  and  add  i  qt.  canned  tomatoes 
strained.  Return  the  spaghetti  to  the  stove,  add  the  sauce, 
cook  a  few  minutes  longer  and  serve.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Herrick. 

DEVIL'S     SPAGHETTI. 

?>oil  carefully  for  20  minutes  4  oz.  spaghetti,  drain  and 
put  into  cold  water,  drain  again  and  chop  fine.  Put  i  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  i  of  butter  into  a  pan,  and  when  hot  add 
1-2  pint  of  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  boiling.  Add  salt, 
a  dash  of  pepper,  a  very  little  grated  onion  and  the  spaghetti. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

When  boiling  beets,  put  a  few  cloves  in  the  pot. 


''All  other  good  by  Fortune's  hand  is  giren 
A  'good  wife  is  the  peculiar  gift  of  Heaven. " 

174  MISCELLANEOUS 


SPANISH    MACARONI. 

Break  up  macaroni  into  inch  lengths  and  boil  25  minutes 
in  salted  water.  Grind  I  lb.  of  raw  beef  and  i  'large  onion, 
and  fry  both  in  beef  drippings ;  add  i  cup  strained  tomato, 
salt,  and  i  tablespoon  Chili  powder.  Cook  a  few  minutes 
and  add  the  macaroni.  This  is  very  good  without  the 
tomatoes  and  pepper,  adding  instead  a  little  good  soup 
stock. 

OYSTER    MACARONI. 

Cook  1-2  lb.  of  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  25 
minutes  and  lay  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes.  Arrange  in 
layers  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  i  pint  of  oysters.  Add 
i  cup  of  rich  milk  to  some  of  the  oyster  liquor,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  made  smooth  in  some  cold  milk  and  pour  it  over 
the  mixture.  Salt,  pepper  and  cover  over  with  a  little  rolled 
cracker  and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  1-2  hour. 

Cambridge,  Neb. 


f      KU* 


BEVERAGES 

"With  many  a  cup  and  many  a  smile 
The  festive  moments  we  beguile." 

COFFEE  FOR    100. 

Have  boiling  8  gallons  of  water,  use  from  3  1-2  to  4  Ibs. 
of  coffee,  mix  it  with  4  eggs  and  wet  thoroughly  with  cold 
water.  Put  into  a  sack  made  of  thin  muslin,  filling  not  more 
than  2-3  full,  and  drop  it  into  the  boiling  water.  It  takes  less 
-coffee  in  proportion  for  a  large  amount. 

Mrs.  Richardson. 

COFFEE. 

Always  bny  the  whole  roasted  berry  and  grind  it  as 
needed.  The  coffee  should  be  of  good  quality  and  the  water 
freshly  boiled,  and  the  pot  so  clean  that  there  is  not  an  odor 
•of  coffee  about  it.  If  the  pot  has  become  coated,  clean  it  by 
boiling  it  out  with  water  and  a  piece  of  sal  soda  the  size 
-of  a  hickory  nut. 

Mix  thoroughly  i  cup  of  freshly  ground  coffee  with  1-2 
•cup  cold  water,  the  crushed  shell  of  an  egg,  and  a  part  of  the 
white,  pour  on  7  cups  of  boiling  water,  cover  the  pot  closely, 
filling  the  spout  with  paper ;  boil  up  once,  allow  it  to  stand 
for  5  minutes,  strain  off  in  another  coffee  pot,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. Never  let  coffee  stand  without  straining,  as  that 
will  spoil  the  very  best  coffee.  Mrs.  Haughey. 


IF  IT'S  NEW 
WE  HAVE  IT 


"Silence  is  a  great  peacemaker.  " 
176  BEVERAGES 


PUNCH. 

Five  pints  lemon  juice,  I  qt.  orange  juice,  sugar  to  taste. 

Strain  and  add  water,  2.  cans  pineapple,  i  qt.  of  straw- 
berries, 1-2  cloz.  of  bananas,  i  bottle  of  Apollinaris  before 
serving.  Ample  for  75  persons.  Mrs.  Coggeshall. 

PINEAPPLE  PUNCH. 

One  gallon  white  wine  vinegar,  i  bottle  seltzer  water,  i 
can  of  pineapple,  sugar  to  taste. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Higgins   (in  memoriam). 

FRUIT    PUNCH. 

One  can  of  pineapples  chopped  fine,  4  lemons,  2  oranges, 
i  quart  raspberry  juice,  syrup  made  of  3  cups  sugar  and  3 
of  water.  Add  more  sugar  if  necessary.  Any  other  frui'^ 
juice  may  be  substituted  for  the  raspberry. 

Mrs.  Monroe. 

STRAWBERRY     ACID. 

Dissolve  2  oz.  of  citric  acid  in  2  pints  of  water,  pour  it 
over  4  qts.  of  ripe  strawberry.  After  24  hours,  strain 
without  pressing  much  and  to  each  pint  of  juice,  add  11-2 
Ibs.  of  sugar.  Bring  to  a.  boil  and  keep  at  that  heat  for  TO 
minutes.  Let  stand  uncovered  for  3  days.  Bottle  and 
seal.  This  will  be  fotind  very  useful  when  strawberries  are 
out,  of  season  for  fruit  punches,  etc.  Mrs.  Haughey. 

"And  do  as  adversaries  do  in  law, 

Strive  mightily,  but  e.at  and  drink  as  friends.'" 


Our  Financial  Future 

is  likely  to  be  exactly  what  you  make  it.  What  you  do 
now  in  the  way  of  saving  may  determine  what  the 
future  will  bring  you.  A  savings  account  is  a  great 
helper.  Let  us  open  one  for  you. 

The  First  National  Bank,  Eureka 


INVALID  COOKERY 

"Viands  of  various    kinds  allure  the  taste." 
EGG  NOG  NO  i. 

Beat  i  egg-  white  and  yolk  separately,  putting  into  each 
i  teaspoon  sugar.  Beat,  together,  add  flavoring  and  enough 
cold  milk  to  fill  the  glass. 

EGG  NOG  NO.  2. 

Beat  to  a  cream  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  3  tablespoons  sugar. 
Add  a  little  nutmeg,  2  oz.  brandy,  1-2  a  wine  glass  of 
Madeira  wine  and  11-2  pints  of  rich  milk.  Have  ready  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  stir  well  into  the  mixture  when 
ready  to  serve. 

BEEF  TEA. 

Remove  the  fat  from  i  Ib.  lean  juicy  beef,  and  cut  into 
small  cubes.  Place  in  an  earthen  dish  with  i  pint  cold 
water.  After  soaking  i  hour,  simmer  for  2  or  3  hours, 
skimming  carefully.  Then  boil  quickly  for  a  few  minutes, 
strain  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

CORN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

One  quart  2  handfuls  yellow  corn  meal  and  salt.  Boil  in 
a  double  boiler  from  12  to  18  hours,  adding  water  when 
necessary.  Strain. 

IRISH     MOSS. 

Soak  in  cold  water  i  hour  carefully  1-2  oz.  of  Irish  moss. 
Put  the  moss  into  milk  and  cook  until  the  right  consistency, 
sweeten,  flavor  and  strain  into  moulds. 

"Irish  moss  is  a  kind  of  seed-weed  collected  on  the  coast 
of  Ireland.  Its  chief  constituent  is  a  kind  of  mucilage  that 
dissolves  in  boiling  water.  It  is  said  to  relieve  severe  cough- 
ing, and  is  sometimes  given  in  cases  of  rheumatism  and 
gout." 


"A  perfect  woman  nobly  planned 
To  warn,  to  comfort,  and  command. " 

180  INVALID  COOKERY 


EGG    GRUEL. 

Separate  and  beat  i  egg,  adding  i  teaspoon  sugar  to  the 
yolk.  Pour  i  cup  boiling  milk  slowly  onto  the  yolk,  stir- 
ring rapidly,  then  stir  in  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Flavor 
or  not  as  liked,  add  salt. 

TAPIOCA    JELLY. 

Wash  the  tapioca  carefully  in  2  or  3  waters,  then  soak  in 
water  5  or  6  hours.  Simmer  until  quite  clear  and  add  a  little 
lemon  juice. 

WINE    JELLY. 

One  package  of  gelatine  soaked  in  i  cup  cold  water  for 
2  hours.  Add  3  cups  sugar,  juice  of  3  lemons  and  grated 
rind  of  i  lemon.  Pour  into  i  quart  boiling  water,  strain, 
add  i  cup  wine  and  turn  into  moulds  that  have  been  wet  in 
cold  water. 

SUGARED     TOAST. 

Take  slices  of  bread  as  for  toast,  put  into  a  dripping  pan 
and  toast  light  brown.  Butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
return  to  the  oven  until  the  s  ugar  melts.  It  may  be  used  im- 
mediately or  can  be  kept  in  a  covered  jar.  Excellent. 

MUTTON  AND  VEAL  BROTH. 

This  is  frequently  ordered  as  a  preparation  for  invalids. 
For  the  sick  room  such  broth  must  be  made  as  plain  as 
possible,  and  so  secure  the  juice  of  the  meat.  Boil  slowly 
2  Ibs.  of  mutton  or  veal  for  2  hours,  skim  it  carefully  as  it 
boils,  and  do  not  put  in  very  much  salt.  If  permitted  some 
vegetables  may  be  used  as  seasoning,  and  for  some  broths  a 
little  rice  or  barley  may  be  added.  It  may  be  served  with 
crackers. 

TOAST   WATER. 

Slices  of  toast  nicely  browned  without  a  symptom  of 
burning;  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Cover  closely 
and  let  them  steep  until  cold.  Strain  the  water,  sweeten  to 
taste  and  put  a  piece  of  ice  into  each  glassful. 


INVALID  COOKERY  181 


BARLEY    WATER. 

Put  a  large  tablespoon  of  well  washed  pearl  barley  into  a 
pitcher;  pour  over  it  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  it  remain 
until  cold.  Then  drain  off  the  water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
if  desired,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  nutmeg. 


LITTLE  THINGS 
WORTH  KNOWING 

"Nothing   lovlier   can   be    found   in   woman   than   to   study 
household  good." 

WASHING    FLUID. 

Two  oz.  carbonate  ammonia,  2  oz.  salt  tartar,  i  lb.  can 
lye.  Dissolve  lye  in  i  gallon  hot  water,  when  cool  add 
other  ingredients  and  pour  into  an  earthen  jar.  Soak  clothes 
over  night  in  cold  water,  wring  out  and  soap  the  dirty  spots. 
When  water  in  boiler  is  hot,  add  2-3  cup  of  the  fluid  and  1-4 
bar  soap.  Boil  clothes  1-2  hour,  rub  and  wrinse  thoroughly. 

Dumplings  in  stew  will  not  be  tough  if  they  rest  on  the 
meat.  Don't  let  them  sink  into  the  broth,  but,  put  some 
potatoes  under  them  if  there  is  not  enough  meat. 

A  little  boiling  water  in  an  omelet,  keeps  it  from  being 
tough. 

ANT     EXTtT..     NATO..     (POISON). 

One  spoon  tartar  emetic,  i  spoon  sugar,  mix  into  a  thin 
syrup.  Put  in  a  shallow  tin  and  place  where  ants  congre- 
gate. 

FOR  BURNS. 

A  cream  made  of  lime  water  and  olive  oil  is  excellent 
for  burns.  Place  the  oil  in  a  dish,  add  the  lime  water 
slowly,  beating  with  a  silver  fork  all  the  time. 


B.  B.  CASE 

PRACTICAL  WATCHMAKER 
AND  JEWELER 

319  2D  ST.,  EUREKA 


'"Talk  health,  the  dreary  never  ending  tale 
Of  mortal  maladies  is  worn  and  stale." 

184  LITTLE  THINGS  WORTH    KNOWING 


TO  REMOVE  STAINS. 

One  ounce  of  ammonia,  i  oz.  of  salts  of  tartar,  mix  well 
and  bottle  for  use,  keeping  it  well  corked.  To  use  :  Pour  a 
little  in  a  saucer  and  wash  in  it  white  articles  stained  with 
ink,  mildew,  fruit  or  wine,  wrinse  carefully  in  cold  water 
after  the  stains  are  removed,  then  wash  in  the  usual  way. 

JAVELLE    WATER. 

Dissolve  i  Ib.  sal  soda  and  1-2  Ib.  chloride  of  lime  in  2 
quarts  boiling  water.  Let  cool  and  add  2  qts.  cold  water. 
Used  to  bleach  or  remove  stains  from  white  cotton  goods. 

Equal  parts  ammonia  and  spirits  of  turpentine  will  take 
paint  out  of  clothing,  no  matter  how  hard  or  dry  it  may  be. 
Saturate  the  spots  2  or  3  times,  then  wash  out  in  soap  suds. 

COLD    CREAM. 

Four  oz.  sweet  almond  oil,  3  oz.  rose  water,  2-3  oz.  white 
wax,  3  drachms  spermacetti,  3  drachms  white  rose  extract, 
5  drops  oil  of  rose,  3  teaspoons  lemon  juice.  Directions :  Hava 
a  vessel  of  boiling  water  on  stove,  empty  everything  into  the 
bowl,  except  perfume  and  oil  of  rose  and  set  bowl  (or  a  little 
pan  will  do)  in  boiling  water.  Let  it  remain  until  wax 
and  spermacetti  are  melted,  then  take  out  the  bowl  and  beat 
until  cold.  Keep  it  scraped  down  from  sides  of  bowl 
while  beating.  Beat  i  hour,  then  add  the  perfume  and  oil  of 
rose  and  put  in  jars.  Cut  the  wax  and  spermacetti  up,  as  it 
will  melt  quicker;  the  longer  you  beat  the  better.  Do  not 
put  the  perfume  and  oil  of  rose  in  until  you  are  ready  to  put 
in  jars. 

To  keep  cream  from  dripping  off  nose  of  pitcher,  rub  a 
little  butter  on  the  end  of  nose  before  setting  on  the  table. 


The  Most  Important  Thing 

WORTH  KNOWING  is  that  you  get 
everything  Worth  Cooking  at.... 

J.  F.  McGEORGE  CO. 

GROCERS 

Telephone  Main  756  1039  B  St.,  Eureka 


LITTLE  THINGS  WORTH   KNOWING  185 

SPINACH  GREEN. 

Pound  a  quantity  of  spinach  in  a  mortar,  put  the  pulp  in 
a  muslin  bag,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice,  add  1-4  its  weight  in 
sugar,  heat  until  reduced  1-2  and  batter.  Good  for  coloring 
soup,  ices  and  candies. 

TO  REMOVE  PAINT. 

To  remove  paint  and  putty  stains  from  window  glass,  dip 
a  wet  cloth  in  baking  soda,  and  rub  the  paste  thus  made 
thinly  over  the  glass.  Let  remain  15  minutes,  then  wash  in 
warm  soft  water  without  soap.  This  will  bring  all  the  stains 
with  it.  Rub  dry  and  polish,  or  wash  the  windows  with  hot 
sharp  vinegar ;  this  will  remove  mortar  and  paint. 

Grained  woodwork  should  be  washed  with  cold  tea. 

TO  KEEP  LEMONS. 

Cover  with  cold  water,  changing  it  every  week.  This 
makes  them  ripe  and  juicy. 

TO  THE  GIVER'S    KNOWLEDGE 

This  recipe  has  not  been  in  print  before;  it  was  obtained 
in  Russia : 

Russian  Face  Wash  or  Cream:  Whites  of  6  eggs,  wine 
glass  of  alcohol,  4  teaspoons  lemon  juice,  2  teaspoons  almond 
oil,  stir  with  fork  slightly  to  break  the  egg,  but,  do  not  foam 
it,  then  add  slowly  the  lemon  juice,  the  oil,  and  last  the 
alcohol, 

HAND  LOTION. 

Quarter  oz.  gum  tragacanth  and  soak  in  i  pint  of  rain 
water  3  days,  then  add  i  oz.  each  of  alcohol,  glycerine  and 
witch  hazel,  also  a  little  good  faint  perfume.  Put  in  jars  with 
a  tight  cover.  Keep  in  a  bottle  5  parts  lemon  juice  to  i  of 
alcohol.  After  washing  dishes,  peeling  vegetables  or  other- 
wise using  the  hands,  first  use  the  lemon  juice,  then  rub  in  a 
little  of  the  lotion  and  the  hands  will  be  kept  in  a  fine  con- 
dition. 


"A  good  wife  commands  her  husband  by  obeying  him.  " 
186  LITTLE  THINGS  WORTH    KNOWING 

Salad  dressing  should  not  be  mixed  with  the  salad  until 
just  before  serving. 

There  is  nothing  better  to  fill  pin  cushions  with  than 
dried  coffee  grounds.  Mix  with  a  little  ground  spices. 

Use  chloride  of  lime  disinfectant.  A  solution  of  the  lime 
water  will  remove  mildew  if  the  goods  is  soaked  in  it. 
Wrinse  in  cold  'water  and  hang  in  the  sun. 

Line  garbage  cans  with  newspapers  so  that  they  will  not 
have  to  be  scrubbed  out  every  time  they  are  emptied. 

To  clean  mirrors  and  windows  tie  some  finely  powdered 
whiting  in  a  thin  muslin  cloth,  dip  in  alcohol,  rub  on  the 
glass,  allow  the  mixture  to  dry  and  polish  the  surface  with 
tissue  paper. 

Do  not  wash  lamp  chimneys  in  water,  but  ;hokl  them 
over  the  steam  of  a  teakettle  and  polish  with  newspaper. 

If  a  very  little  flour  is  sprinkled  in  a  pan  when  eggs  are 
being  fried,  it  will  prevent  the  hot  grease  from  sputtering 
on  the  stove. 

Have  your  kitchen  table  covered  with  smooth  zinc  instead 
of  oil  cloth.  It  is  not  injured  by  hot  pans  and  kettles  and  is 
very  easily  cleaned. 

The  step  ladder  is  the  most  useful  but  most  treacherous 
household  article.  To  keep  the  ladder  from  slipping,  cut 
pieces  from  the  bottom  of  old  rubber  shoes  and  tack  them 
securely  to  the  bottom  of  the  ladder. 

Reduce  the  temperature  of  the  oven  when  the  cake  be- 
gins to  rise  in  a  heap  in  the  center.  The  cake  will  be  coarse 
grained  if  allowed  to  bake  in  this  manner. 


WANTED  a  chance  to  PROVE  to  y°u  that  we 

can  give  your  boy  or  your  girl,  your 
husband,  or  yourself,  a  good  technical  education  in  the 
privacy  of  the  home. 

Don't  you  want  somebody  to  PROVE  to  your  loved 
ones  the  road  to  a  larger  usefulness  and  a  better  salary?  Better 
PROOF  was  never  offered.  For  PROOF  see 

FEN  E.  NEWTON,  613  4th  St.,  Eureka,  Cal. 


LITTLE  THINGS  WORTH   KNOWING  187 


Clean  copper  with  lemon  and  salt. 

To  clean  cane  chairs  and  white  straw  hats,  mix  a  teaspoon 
of  oxalic  acid  in  a  quart  of  water,  scrub  with  a  stiff  brush, 
wrinse  with  warm  water  and  rub  until  dry. 

Powdered  alum  will  allay  excessive  perspiration  if  dusted 
under  the  arms  and  under  the  feet. 

.Never  fill  a  lamp  full  of  coal  oil.  If  kept  in  a  wafm 
room  it  will  run  over  through  the  expansion  of  the  oil.  This 
is  one  of  the  frequent  causes  of  explosions. 

Clean  and  save  worn  matting  to  line  carpets  with.  It  is 
much  nicer  than  paper. 

To  keep  eggs,  dip  each  one  in  melted  parafine  and  stand 
on  the  small  end. 

MAGIC  CLEANSING  FLUID. 

Three  oz.  castile  soap,  dissolve  in  3  oz.  water,  3  oz.  am- 
monia, 2  oz.  ether,  2  oz.  glycerine,  3  oz.  alcohol,  enough 
water  to  make  2  pints.  Apply  to  spots  with  a  sponge.  One 
.teaspoon  of  this  solution  beaten  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and 
i  teaspoon  of  borax  makes  an  excellent  shampoo  for  the  hair. 

\Yhen  making  meringue  use  granulated  sugar  in  prefer- 
ence to  powdered  sugar. 

For  peanut  sandwiches,  mash  the  peanuts  to  a  powder, 
season  with  salt  and  moisten  with  cream. 

If  potatoes  are  boiled  in  their  skins  and  the  skins  removed 
just  before  taking  to  table,  it  will  save  much  waste. 

Small  linen  articles  can  be  bleached  by  soaking  in  a  qt. 
of  water,  to  which  is  added  i  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Go  over  the  zinc  under  the  kitchen  stove  once  a  day 
'with  a  cloth  dampened  in  kerosene  and  it  will  always  be 
bright. 

Saffron  added  to  the  wrinsing  water  will  make  ecru  cur- 
tains look  much  better  than  coffee. 

Clean    plate  glass  with  alcohol. 


"A'o  gain  is  so  certain  as  that    which  proceeds   from    the 
economical  use  of  what  you  have." 

188  LITTLE  THINGS  WORTH    KNOWING 


Keep  a  little  rice  in  the  salt  shaker  to  prevent  the  salt  from 
caking. 

Sun  spots  will  appear  on  mirrors  if  the  sunlight  strikes 
the  glass,  and  nothing  will  remedy  the  defect. 

A  week's  solution  of  oxalic  acid  will  remove  iron  rust. 

Chloroform  and  oil  of  cloves  will  cure  toothache  instantly, 
will  also  cure  earache  if  placed  on  cotton  and  put  in  the 

ear. 

The  day  when  you  are  cooking,  baking  and  devoting 
most  of  the  time  to  the  kitchen,  have  a  holder  attached  to  the 
apron  band  by  means  of  a  tape  This  little  device  will  help 
through  the  whole  day's  work. 

Spinach  is  much  better  than  mineral  water  for  kidney  de- 
rangements. 

To  clean  enamel  tubs  rub  thoroughly  with  a  cloth  dipped 
in  turpentine  and  salt.  Rinse  and  the  tub  is  like  new. 

To  remove  cream  spots  from  embroidered  center  pieces 
dampen  the  spots  with  ammonia,  full  strength,  lay  a  blotting 
paper  upon  it  and  iron. 

Apply  mud  to  the  stings  of  a  nettle,  bees  and'  other 
insects. 

Rub  chapped  hands  with  good     cider  vinegar. 

Tooth  powder  may  be  prepared  at  home  at  a  small  cost. 
Two  oz.  prepared  chalk,  1-2  oz.  powdered  orris  root,  1-4  oz. 
carbonate  of  soda.  Mix  and  pass  through  a  sieve. 

To  wash  black  and  white  silk  use  rain  water  with  a  good 
handful  of  salt  added.  Make  a  good  lather  of  warm  water, 
wrinse  quickly,  fold  up  in  a  cloth  to  dry.  It  should  be  ironed 
on  the  wrong  side  while  still  damp. 

Milk  will  keep  much  longer  in  a  kettle  that  is  larger  at  the 
top  than  at  the  bottom. 

Borax  has  many  domestic  uses.  It  will  soften  hard  water, 
is  very  useful  in  washing  clothes,  and  if  properly  used  will 
greatly  reduce  the  amount  of  soap  required.  It  does  not  in- 
jure the  hands  or  clothes  as  sal  soda  does.  It  will  drive  away 
cockroaches  if  sprinkled  in  their  haunts  every  day  for  a  week 
or  so. 


LITTLE  THINGS  WORTH   KNOWING  189 

Always  dry  umbrellas  shut  up  with  the  handles  down, 
for  dried  open  the  silk  will  stiffen  and  crack.  If  the  handle 
is  up,  the  water  will  gather  at  the  lowest  point  and  rot  the 
silk. 

For  mosquito  bites,  touch  the  spot  with  a  little  ammonia. 

Rancid  butter  may  be  sweetened  by  boiling  it  with  an 
equal  amount  of  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a  pinch  of 
soda.  Set  away  to  cool  over  night.  Take  off  the  butter 
and  use  it  in  any  dish,  no  matter  how  delicate  the  flavoring. 

As  salt  will  curdle  any  milk  if  allowed    to  stand,  do  not  add 
it  to  any  milk    preparation  until  time  to  serve. 

Powder  up  egg  shells  to  clean  tall  vases,  glass  water 
bottles,  etc. 

To  keep  cream  48  hours  or  longer,  add  a  little  sugar  and 
scald  it  in  a  double  boiler,  cool  as  quickly  as  possible  in  a  wide 
vessel. 

"What's  the  use  of  hurrying? 

Fretting  doesn't  pay. 
Wlhat's  the  use  of  hurrying? 

It's  the  slowest  way. 
Half  the  whims   that   worry  you 

Never  will  come     true; 
Then  why  let  them  flurry    you 

As  you  daily  do? 

Live  your  life  out  easily, 

Then  it  will  be  long. 
Take   what   happens      breezily ;  L 

Whistle,  sing  a  song. 
Don't  waste  strength  in  worrying 

Over  phantom  ills. 
Don't  waste  time  in  hurrying, 

That's  the  pace  that     kills." 


